 

 

 

 

Dear Hrs. Murdoch:

Ifam glad that you and Chiye Hachisuka had such a pleasant
time together. I'll never forget the lunch she and I had in

a wonderful Japanese room, and I did think you would enjoy a
similar experience.

I hope we can meet again in New York or washington. Ordinarily l“

I come to New York fairly often, but managed to hurt my ankle
in the recent snow, so I am in a cast for the mement, but I
hope to be back to normal in a couple of weeks and will try to
reach you by phone, - .

My daughter is a faithful reader of The New York Post, and-she
often givee_me interesting articles about animals and their

welfare which I am delighted to read, since all my time is
Vspent working to prevent cruelty to animals. both domestic

and wild. That's how I came to meet the delightful Chiye
Hachieuka.‘ ’ ' .

All good wiShee,

Sincerely,

Mrs. Anna Murdoch
834 Fifth Avenue
New Yerk. New York 10021

 




33? m #M
”,7: NA". /0‘DZJ

[@622 7’77

 




 




 

WE WANT YOU TO KNOW

This is the ﬁrst issue of a news bulletin
that will be sent frequently to members
of the National Humane Society and
other persons who may be interested in
national problems of humane work. We
believe that both contributors and the
general public are entitled to know all
about the operations of any organiza-
tion that asks philanthropic support. In
these bulletins, therefore, we shall re-
port everything about our work that we
think will interest anyone concerned
about prevention of cruelty and suffer-
ing. The NHS will be happy to supply
additional details about any of the activi-
ties that will be, unavoidably, reported
only brieﬂy in the news bulletins.

 

 

 

NHS Elects Four

New Directors

By-Laws of the NHS provide for election of
Directors by the Society membership. During
this ﬁrst year of existence, however, the Board
is being ﬁlled out to its full complement of 15
Directors by action of the incorporators and the
existing Board. Membership control of the
Board will take full effect at the ﬁrst annual
meeting, to be held this autumn.

New Directors elected since incorporation
last November are:

Dr. Robert E. Russell, Denver, Colo.—Dr.
Russell is minister of the Epiphany Episcopal
Church, Denver. He is nationally known for his
application of Christian doctrine and ethics to
the protection of animals, and for his personal
rescue work.

Joseph Sadowsky, Cedar Rapids, Ia.—Mr.
Sadowsky, a specialist in estate appraisals, has
for many years been President of the Linn
County (1a.) Humane Society and Treasurer
of the Iowa Federation of Humane Societies.

Mrs. Edward S. Voss, Monkton, Md.—Mrs.
Voss does much volunteer work with the Balti-
more County (Md.) Humane Society and is
deeply interested in efforts to achieve humane
slaughter of meat animals, protection of labo-
ratory animals, and prevention of the surplus
of dogs and cats that is a chief problem of
local humane societies everywhere.

Collis Wager, Utica, N.Y.——Mr. Wager is an
attorney. He is President of the SteVens-Swan
Humane Society (Utica and Rome) and a
member of the Humanitarian League of Utica.

April, 1955

Humane Societies Fight

To Protect Lab Monkeys

The National Humane Society is taking an
aggressive part, with other humane organiza-
tions, in attempting to end the really terrible
conditions under which the National Founda-
tion for Infantile Paralysis and several com-
mercial laboratories have been importing thou-
sands of monkeys each month from India. The
monkeys are being used in production of the
Salk polio vaccine, scheduled to go on the com-
mercial market this spring.

Representatives of the National Humane So-
ciety and of the “Animal Welfare Institute re-
cently inspected a shipment of monkeys as it
arrived at Idlewild airport, New York City.
Many of the monkeys had died en route, some
had been maimed by rough handling, some
females had delivered babies during the trip
and babies had died, all animals were covered
with ﬁlth because cages had not been cleaned
during a ﬁve-day trip. The animals were so
crowded that they could barely move in the
cages.

Protests were sent by both the Animal Wel-
fare Institute and the National Humane So-
ciety to the US. Customs Bureau, which has
responsibility for enforcing United States laws
requiring humane handling of imported ani-
mals. The NHS wrote directly to Secretary
of the Treasury George M. Humphrey, who is
empowered by law to make regulations gov-
erning humane treatment of incoming animals.

Larry Andrews, Director of Field Service for
the NHS, called at the headquarters of Eli
Lilly 81 Co., in Indianapolis, Ind., to determine
conditions on air shipments that have been
going directly from India to the Lilly labora-
tories.

At the exact time that Mr. Andrews made
the Indianapolis visit, the Government of India
declared an embargo on further shipments of
monkeys to America, apparently because of
mistreatment of the animals and perhaps be-
cause of a doubt, in India, about the necessity
for use in America of such huge numbers of
monkeys. Shipments have been running to
5,000 monkeys a month.

Representatives of the Lilly company and of
the National Foundation for Infantile Paraly-
sis ﬂew to India on March 27 to attempt to
persuade the Indian government to permit a
resumption of shipments.

The National Humane Society has written to

the US. Department of State, expressing a
hope that the Department will not allow the
United States, in any negotiations in New
Delhi, to appear to be less humane than the
government of India. The NHS will maintain
an inspection of further shipments of monkeys,
if the embargo is lifted, and will press for
prosecution of violators of humane laws.

The text of a letter sent by Fred Myers, Ex-
ecutive Director of the NHS, to J. Jefferson
Jones III, Director of the Office of South Asian
Affairs of the Department of State, follows:

“We have become involved in a matter in

(Continued on page 4)

Slaughter Reform
Program Launched

Methods by which meat animals are
slaughtered in most American packing plants
constitute one of our nation’s most atrocious
cruelties. Pigs are hoisted by one hind leg,
stabbed in the throat with a knife, and allowed
to bleed slowly to death; beef animals are
knocked down with a large hammer—often
with, gruesomely inexpert blows; lambs have
their throats cut, while fully conscious.

Since approximately 200,000,000 animals go
to the killing rooms every year (four every sec-
ond!) slaughter reform is obviously one of the
most serious challenges to the American hu-
mane movement.

The National Humane Society, incorporated
less than four months ago, already is taking
active steps to force improvements that should
have been achieved long since.

The NHS campaign will be pushed on three
fronts: (1) education of the public, particu—
larly housewives and legislators; (2) per-
suasion, addressed to slaughter house man-
agers; (3) support for legislation requiring
anaesthetization or humane stunning of animals
before they are cut or stuck for bleeding.

A brochure exposing present cruelties in the
packing plants is in preparation and will be
widely circulated. It will be distasteful read-
ing for sensitive people but there seems to be

(Continued on page 3)

 




 

 

 

 

 

New Style NHS Education Hits 80,000,000 Persons

That much abused phrase “humane educa-
tion” is being given a new dimension and
meaning by the National Humane Society.

The NHS believes that almost all of the old
methods of spreading the humane philosophy
have been useful. But our Society believes,
and is acting on its belief, that the humane
movement has been tardy in adopting the mass-
education methods that are so successfully used
by big business, government, and many private
interests.

For example: it undoubtedly is helpful if a
special Speaker occasionally tells a class of
school children that they should be kind to
animals, but it is more effective if Roy Rogers
or Hopalong Cassidy says the same thing to a
million youngsters on TV.

For another example: it is useful to distrib-
ute posters saying “Be Kind to Animals” but
it is more useful to bring people into contact
with an actual cruelty to animals and involve
them in achieving a reform.

Without getting into the debate about
whether the chicken or the egg came ﬁrst, it
can be argued that it is as important to preach
the humane gospel to adults as to children.
The NHS does not believe that a sadist can be
reformed by preaching but our Society does be-
lieve that there are millions of really kindly
adults who simply are unconscious of the cruel-
ties they perpetrate on animals. NHS educa-
tion, therefore, is not being restricted to chil-
dren.

Educational activities of the NHS are being
directed by Helen Jones, long an active volun-
teer worker in the Lackawanna County
(Penna) Humane Society and formerly Di-
rector of the Membership Department of the
American Humane Association. Miss Jones is
concentrating; at this time, on national hu-
mane education through newspapers, maga-
zines, television, and radio.

As evidence that the new kind of work is
effective, more than 1,500 newspapers with a
total circulation of nearly 80,000,000 have in
the last two months carried sizeable feature
articles about the national surplus of dogs and
cats and have quoted National Humane Society
recommendations for elimination of the surplus
and the terrible cruelties that the surplus
causes.

Three national television shows have sched-
uled comments on the same theme and a na-
tional magazine with a circulation of more than
3,000,000 copies is preparing a major article
about the dog-cat surplus, using material sup-
plied by the NHS.

As a result of educational publicity already
achieved, the NHS oﬂice in Washington is
getting an average of close to 500 requests
each week for information about how to control
breeding. The requests obviously come from
people who have had no other contact with any
segment of the humane movement.

Plans are being made for production of two
educational motion picture ﬁlms, one on sur-
plus animals and one on slaughter houses, and
for their circulation to audiences in every state.

 

The People We’re Reaching

Many workers in the American humane movement have uncomfortably

felt, for many years, that the movement has been wasting a lot of money and

many opportunities by “talking to ourselves.”

Much of the educational

literature produced has been circulated only to mailing lists of people known

to be already interested in the cause.

The NHS is determined to reach

millions of people who have never been in touch with any humane organization
and who are unconscious of even the most common cruelties to animals.
The following excerpts from a few of more than 2,000 letters received in
March indicate that the objective is being achieved.

San Diego, Calif. I would like to have
the leaﬂet you advertise in the Woman’s Home
Companion about how to keep dogs from
breedng so often. I did not know there was
any way. Our little Beulah, a beagle, has
litters of pups so often we cannot get rid of
them and I cannot afford to feed them.

 

 

Cleveland, Ohio—Will you kindly send me
leaﬂet I saw mentioned in our paper here so
that I can take care of my cat that she does
not bear so many times a year. Seems as tho
the minute her kittens are born, the male cats
are after her again. Trusting I can be helped
in this matter.

 

Newton, Mass. Please send me free leaf-
let on how pet owners can cooperate in solving
the stray dog and cat problem which is now
really-a serious and important problem con-
cerning every taxpayer. I will be glad to do
my part if you will tell me what to do.

 

 

Denver, Colo.—I wish you would send me
your leaﬂet explaining about birth control of
cats and dogs. I saw the article about your
program in the Denver Post and I will do my
part to help control my own pets.

Baltimore, Md.—Many a time I’ve thought
somebody ought to do something abOut there
being so many homeless cats and dogs but
I never knew what ought to. be done. I read
in the Baltimore Post about your work and
I would like to have one of your leaﬂets to
tell me what to do. I have six cats and three
dogs

Downs, Kan.—Our paper says that if I
write to you, you can tell me how to control
my cats so they will not have so many kittens.
I would like to do this because I must have
had to drown a hundred kittens already.
Please send your leaﬂet.

__._._—_

HELP WANTED

Would someone in the District of Columbia
area like to volunteer to come into our office
once in a while to address envelopes, stuff the
envelopes with leaﬂets, seal and stamp? We
are keeping our staff small and several times,
in the last few weeks, the response to national
publicity has swamped us under baskets of
mail.

 

DRIVE FOB HUMANE HUNTING-

Looking forward to next autumn, when tens
of millions of American men (and not a few
women) will take to the ﬁelds and woods with
shotguns and riﬂes, the NHS staff already is
planning a new kind of high-powered campaign
for “humane hunting.”

Like other educational work that the NHS
already has initiated, the drive to help game
animals and birds will be backed by heavy na-
tional publicity.

Although no member of the NHS staff would
shoot an animal or bird for “fun,” the cam-
paign being planned will make no direct at-
tempt to wean hunters away from their sport.
All efforts will be directed, instead, toward
persuading hunters to make certain that every
shot makes a quick and painless kill and that

no animals are merely wounded, to undergo
long suffering and perhaps a slow death of
gangrene.

Cooperation of state game departments and
of popular hunting and ﬁshing magazines will
be sought during the summer, so that massive
education through publicity can be achieved
in September, October, and November.

 

0

AHA CONVENTION

The annual corporation meeting and con-
vention of the American Humane Association
will be held in Grand Rapids, Mich., in Octo-
ber or November. All AHA members should
plan, if at all possible, to attend the corpora-
tion meeting and have a voice in electing three
new Directors.

 




 

Slaughter

(Continued from page I)

no way to rouse public resentment against
slaughter house cruelties without describing
what must be ended. This brochure will be
mailed in about two weeks to all NHS mem-
bers, to all humane societies, to officers of
thousands of women’s clubs, to Congressmen
and state legislators, and to other groups.

Directors of the NHS voted, at a recent
meeting, to use a part of NHS funds to ﬁnance
a new study of electric stunning of meat ani-
mals. We have asked the veterinary colleges
of Cornell University and Michigan State Col-
lege to undertake the study jointly.

Electric stunning, which is indubitably hu-
mane, now is required by law in the Nether-
lands and Denmark, and is widely used in
England and several other countries, but is
prohibited in America by regulations of the
Department of Agriculture. The Agriculture
Department contends that certain small lung
lesions said to be caused by electric stunning
are indistinguishable from lesions symptomatic
of hog cholera, erysipelas, and other diseases.

The NHS-ﬁnanced study is expected to show
that if modern techniques are used, no such
confusion need result. Electric stunning cer-
tainly will be adopted by many American
packers if the Department of Agriculture ob-
jection is withdrawn.

Conferences between officers of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and of the NHS have re-
vealed an entirely sympathetic and cooperative
attitude among the government ofﬁcers. They
are willing and even eager to consider the new
evidence that the NHS is undertaking to pro-
vide.

Other steps are being undertaken by the
NHS and will be reported in future issues of
this news bulletin.

 

O

N. Y. Women Back
Compulsory InOcul ation

Thelma S. Zwirner, President of the Animal
Owners’ League, Inc., of Ossining, N.Y., has
alerted us to the fact that a resolution im-
plicitly favoring compulsory inOculation of
all dogs against rabies was passed at the last
convention of the New York State Federation
of Women’s Clubs.

The resolution does not speciﬁcally mention
inoculation but the background facts indicate
that sponsors of the action had inoculation in
mind.

The signiﬁcant section of the motion adopted
in New York says:

“Resolved, that the New York State Federa-
tion of Women’s Clubs . . . shall promote, sup-
port and publicize any and all accepted and
approved rabies control efforts of our town,
state and nation and urges adequate legisla-
tion, both state and national, to enforce such
control measures until the goal of eventual
eradication of rabies from our country can be
reached.”

The same resolution, it was said, will be
placed before the convention of the General

 

BY-LAWS AVAILABLE

To avoid waste, we are mailing copies
of the National Humane Society by-laws
only when they are requested. Every
member is entitled to a copy, however,
and a postcard will bring a copy by re-
turn mail. The NHS is a really new
kind of organization among American
humane societies and the by-laws will
repay study.

 

Federation of Women’s Clubs in Philadelphia
this spring.

All humanitarians who can bring in-
ﬂuence to bear upon delegates going to
the General Federation convention are
urged to explain to the delegates imme-
diately, why no law making rabies inocu-
lation compulsory should be enacted.

One reason is that compulsory inoculation
never affects the huge population of stray and

It is doubtful if 'more than
70 per cent of dogs in any metropolitan com-
munity are ever inoculated, even when it is re-
quired by law and strong campaigns are con-
ducted in the midst of rabies scares. The un-
vaccinated dogs always can maintain a reser-
voir of any infection that may be present.

abandoned dogs.

A second reason is that compulsory inocula-
tion diverts community and ofﬁcial attention
from dog control, which is the only means of
rabies control that has proved to be effective.

A third reason is that rabies vaccines are a
danger to dogs. Many dogs are paralyzed or
otherwise physically impaired by the vaccine,
and some are killed.

Women who are afraid that rabid dogs may
threaten children would do much better to
work for humane animal control laws, and ade-
quate budgets for enforcement of those laws,
than f0r compulsory Vaccination.

 

travels on its money. In this res

her and help get more members.
ciety, run by its members.

of course.

Want to Help?

An army may travel on its stomach but a humane society

ciety is exactly like every other humane society.
see more (and more and more!) of the new kind of humane work
that we have launched in our first four months, become a mem-

Membership will entitle you to a vote
in electing Directors and in making many policy decisions. Use
the form below, today, to join now. Contributions are tax exempt,

pect, the National Humane So-
If you want to

This is a fully democratic so-

 

 

National Humane Society,
733 Fifteenth St., N.W.
Washington 5, D. C.

(A pledge of an additional gift,

to remit on or about ___

send me a reminder at that time.

Name ______

, Mr. Charles Herbert Appleby, Treasurer,

Please enrol! me as a member of the National Humane Society.
I enclose $ _____________________ as a contribution to help fight cruelty
($5 makes you a voting member).

venient to contribute now, will help the Society to plan its work
efficiently. Use the line below for this purpose, if you wish.)

I pledge $ _____________________ (in addition to amount enclosed). I plan

(date)

or a future gift if it is incon-

_ and ask you to

 

 

Street

 

 

 

 

City and State

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

NHS Board Deﬁnes Society’s

Basic Humane Work Policies

Directors of the National Humane Society
adopted several fundamental policy resolutions
at a recent two-day Board meeting which was
devoted almost entirely to discussion of basic
problems of national humane work. The sub-
stance of the resolutions is set forth below.

Surplus Animals

Resolved, “that for reduction of the cruel
surplus of dogs and cats in the United States,
the National Humane Society urges that no dog
or cat be bred, except by commercial kennels,
unless the breeder intends and is able to give a
permanent and adequate home to those of the
litter which are not immediately and humanely
destroyed; and

“The National Humane Society urges the
spaying of all female cats and‘dogs of breeding
age except those held for commercial breed-

mg.”

Protection of Laboratory Animals

The Board unanimously authorized the staff
to use “drastic” measures to correct unsatisfac-
tory conditions in laboratories using animals if
such laboratories “are not amenable to con-
structive suggestions for improvement.” The
Board also affirmed that the NHS will oppose
all pound seizure legislation.

Compulsory Rabies Inoculation

The NHS opposes compulsory rabies inocu-
lation. The Board took cognizance of disagree-
ment among experts about the efficacy of in-
oculation as a rabies control measure and of
the fact that compulsory inoculation often di-
verts attention from more dependable methods
of epizootic control.

Humane Slaughter of Meat Animals
Resolved, “that after reviewing the extensive
use of the captive bolt pistol and of electrical
stunning of meat animals before slaughter in
Great Britain, the Netherlands and Denmark
and of the use of carbon dioxide by the Hormel
Company in the United States, the National
Humane Society concludes that all three meth-
ods are humane when properly used. The Na-
tional Humane Society condemns, as inhumane,
the use of the poll-ax and the casting, sticking
and cutting of animals before they have been
humanely stunned or anaesthetized.”

Standards for NHS Branches

Because the NHS will soon open its ﬁrst
Branch (an NHS branch will do the same work
as a ﬁrst-class local humane society), the Board
devoted much time to formulating minimum
standards that will be required of all NHS
branches. Among the requirements will be
these:

1. Shelter plans and site must be approved
by the NHS.

2. Prompt pickup service must be provided
for all animals in need of shelter between 9
a.m. and 5 p.m. daily, except Saturdays, Sun-
days, and holidays. .

3. Emergency pickup service for all injured
and ill animals, and in cases where delay
would for other reasons cause animals to suf-

fer, at all times. Rescue service also must be
available at all times.

4. Equipment and techniques for euthanasia
must be approved by Field Director of NHS.

5. No fee may be charged for any service to
animals.

6. Vigorous effort will be made to ﬁnd suit-
able homes for homeless animals but no un-
spayed female dog or cat may be placed for
adoption except if spaying at the proper time
is guaranteed by deposit of a fee.

7. Standard NHS records of all animals
must be maintained.

8. Employees must be paid wages and sal-
aries comparable to compensation usually paid
for comparable work in the community.

9. No NHS branch may enter into a public
pound contract.

10. All branches must maintain a continuous
program of investigation and inspection of all
places within their jurisdiction where animals
or fowl are kept for commercial purposes
(slaughter houses, markets, pet shops, stables,
etc.) and take all steps possible to remedy ob-
jectionable conditions. A written record will be
kept of each investigation or inspection.

11. All Branches will maintain active pro-
grams of public education and information,
designed to reach all age levels and to promote

the objectives of the NHS.

0

 

Monkeys

(Continued from page 1)
which it appears that your office is taking at
least a slight interest and we think that we
should inform you of the circumstances.

“We have long been concerned about condi-
tions under which very large quantities of
monkeys are being shipped to the United
States from India. Demand for the new. polio
vaccine recently raised monkey imports to ap-
proximately a rate of 5,000 animals per month.

“Large numbers of the imported animals
have arrived in the United States in truly ter-
rible condition. Mortality has been very high,
animals have arrived covered with their own
ﬁlth because cages were not cleaned en route,
there has been evidence of lack of food and
water, and many animals have been maimed
in transit by careless handling.

“Recently the Indian government embargoed
further shipments of monkeys from that coun-
try because of mistreatment of the animals.

“A representative of Eli Lilly & Company,
of Indianapolis, is going to India this week
with a representative of the National F ounda-
tion for Infantile Paralysis to attempt to per-
suade Indian authorities to relax the current
embargo. The embargo has substantially halted
production of the vaccine which is slated for
commercial distribution for the ﬁrst time in
April.

“Mr. Ivan J. Klingaman, Purchasing Direc-
tor for Eli'Lilly & Co., has informed me that
his mission to India has the approbation of the

 

 

NEW SEIZURE BILL

A new pound seizure bill has been introduced
in the Pennsylvania legislature. Details of the
bill were not available in Washington when
this bulletin went to press. The National Hu-
mane Society promptly informed Rutherford
Phillips, President of the Pennsylvania Fed-
eration of Humane Societies, and Owen Hunt,
President of the American Anti-Vivisection
Society, that they might call upon the N HS for
any help possible in opposing the bill.

 

Department of State, and he told me that he
has been assured of the support of the United
States embassy in Delhi.

“I do not mean to impugn anyone’s good ‘
faith, but Mr. Klingaman made it quite clear
to me that he does not intend to propose any
more improvement in the handling of the im-
ported monkeys than is absolutely necessary to
gain a relaxation of the Indian embargo. He did
not explicitly so state, but he left me with the
strong impression that he expects the Depart-
ment of State and the embassy in India to sup-
port him in this program.

“We, on the other hand, are determined that
there shall be a radical change in the handling
of monkeys that may be shipped in the future.
We are, therefore, transmitting our estimates
of the situation and of Mr. Klingaman’s mis-
sion to leaders of inﬂuential humane societies
in India, some of whom are incidentally ofﬁcers
of the Indian government.

(Mention of Eli Lilly & Co., and its repre-
sentatives in this letter was not intended to
single out that company for special criticism.
In fact, the Lilly companygappears to have
done more than some other pharmaceutical
ﬁrms to provide comfort for imported monkeys
up to the time when they are used in produc-
tion of polio vaccine—Editor)

“This is the crux of the situation that causes
me to write this letter. As American citizens,
we do not wish to be giving advice abroad
which is in even slight degree in conﬂict with
our government’s policy. We hope that Mr.
Klingaman is mistaken in what appears to be
his belief that the Department of State will
even by implication support continued in-
humane treatment of animals that are being
imported into this country. We hope that our
embassy ofﬁcials in Delhi will understand that
very large numbers of Americans are interested
in this situation and have exceedingly strong
feelings about it.

“It seems to us that it would be wise if the
United States embassy in Delhi would strongly
encourage Mr. Klingaman and his colleague
from the National Foundation for Infantile
Paralysis to make really substantial conces-
sions to the strong public opinion in India
which led the Indian government to the rather
extreme resort of embargoing shipments of
monkeys to the United States. Surely it can-
not be in our national interest to allow the
public of India to be persuaded that the Amer-
ican government has lower standards of hu-

manitarianism than those that prevail in
India.”

 

 




  

..,. 7 _. he 1.. ,, . . , _, ... 1,, . —-— n 57.: . , . ; -." - u -T—.~~: We. . A 1 . ...,. .. . o .
7 ‘V I ‘ 1' , I “I . ' 7' 1,13%; ::;"_"1‘7§ , If "‘3' a! ;_ ."1. 9'14.“ ‘1. I“ 5'? \ v,“ '1 I“ ”*1... ”I..." -‘ «up: ,1, ' ‘hu‘."‘:‘_ 717 )1; ~: '7’ ‘- . I '
‘ , ye“! 3.;-' ; .1 ,~ 2 If? V, ‘ . K 7 , -_.‘,~ )1”, I 1 . A»... , ’I.“?~v“’.~,:v"‘ I, M} ..,'. 4,, W, ‘» I5. .
» . . 3' :~ -I w w; I w N41, 5,. M , U1 . . - ‘ ~f I-
' ' ‘ r‘ .‘- A "‘ " 1" 'A‘_ . " .
I - . t - I

PROGRAM lNVOLVEMENT~ ‘ A ' ""’“"'*“”'~A»p;r71

 

i Q

FISH AND WILDLIFE POACHING

if you have witnessed a poaching in cident or any fish and wildlife wiolation or have
:information about SUCh a violation, simply dial the toll- free Department of Fish and
Game number 1 (800) 952 SAOO between the hours .of 8 AM and 5 PM Monday thrOugh Fr1~
.day. In an emergency, cal1 the nearest Fish and Game office or the local game War-
dent. Be prepared to give the fullest possible accoUnt of the InCIdent including
the name, address, age and d.escr1ption of the sUSpect, and when and where 1t dccr ~
red. You need not give your name and you won 't be required to testify You M111 be
,asSigned a code number and that will be your only means of identifying yourself if
”and when the information leads_ to an arrest and you claim your reward .

 

CalTlP (CalifornIans Turn in Peachers) has a C itizen Review Board which adminTsters
the reWard funds. it needs financial SUpport because all of the rewards must come
from private Contributions. Make checks payable to CalTlP and mail to Crocker Na“
etional Bank, P." 0. Box 1678, Sacramento, CA 95808. Every seven minutes on the aver-
age, 2A hours a day, another deer fall's. to a poacher in California. The toll comes
to 75, 000 deer annually, twice the legal kill, and the cost to Cali_fornians in money
alone is conservatively estimated at $7.5 million. in terms of aesthetics, recrea~
tional value, damage to the resource, etc. , the cost is incaiculable. Other species
preyed. on by poachers are bear, antelope, salmon, steelhead trout, striped bass”.
sturgeon, prairie falcons, Harris' hawks, eagles, bighorn sheep and tule elk

,jThe program started in September of 1981. As of January, 1982 CalTlP averaged about
77 calls a day (i a weeknight). There have been 300 investIgatIons with 202 complet~

ed.' 82 arrests have-been made.= 117 individuals wanted no reward and  183 wanted a

' reward. There is no tally regarding the part othhe state where violations occur.

 

,RKANGARDO HATCH

I hnThe Animal We 1fare instItute, P. 0. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007 maintains that

7;”the US is or Was the Australian beef industry's best overseas custOmer--import ing
. around 300,000 tons of beef a year.‘ '15 or was” because'the scandalOus revelation

1' that Australian 'beef' can be kangaroo or horSe-~or even buffalo or wild pig--has

_ put a big question mark over the whole futUre of this multi.-million dollar trade.

1 ”{The Institute wishes to hear about any kangaroo leather products, fur or meat you

may see offered for sale. :

l

1.HHALE ANNOUNCEMENTS

Mikhail Baryshnikov, Artistic Director of the American Ballet Theatre is a Soviet

' defecto r  and an ardent lover of whales who deplores their continued slaughter. He
'has made 10, 20, and 30 second televised tapes which the Animal Welfare lnstitUte,
‘P. 0. Box 3650, WashIngton, D. C 20DD7 would like to get on local TV stations

 

. .TRANSPORTATION PLANNING

iThe California Department Of {Transportatiion (Caltrans) wants citizen partICIpatIon
in planning future transportation services. Call David Clark at (916) 323- 5085

or write to P. 0. Box 1A99, Sacramento, CA 95807. Ca1 trans also has a program .to'
increase bicycle commuting on a Statewide level as a means of reducing energy cOn-

,. sumption, traffic congestion and air pollution. Send ideas to Rennie Jylkka, Office

Of Bicycle Facilities, Caltrans, 1120 N Street, Room AAOD, Sacramento, CA 9581 A or
call  (916) ANS‘M20081nH . .

' LEGAL CONSIDERATl 0N$

Southwestern  University SChool of Law maintains an active Env1ronmenta,1‘ Law Forum,
which among other activities, Sponsors symposia on timely environmental issues. in
1981 the group in cooperation with the Los Angeles City AttOrney' 5 office and South-
western Law Review, presented a symposium on legal issues related to hazardous
.wastes. Another sympOSIum is scheduled in the fall. For information write to Cynthia

 

“3-; Black, Environmental Law Forum, Southwestern University School of Law, 675 S. West-

”imorland Ave., Los AngeieS. CA 90005 0V 9311 (213) 733 6782

 




 

 

.p. 8

i v

‘ACTION SUGGESTIOMS

 

CONTESTS

California Fish and Game Commission Annual'Photography_Award Program~rEntries should
be submitted to the Commission,_1416 Ninth St., Sacramento, CA 9581A, prior to Sep-
tember 30. .Blackand white prints or colOr prints ( 9x7 to 16x20 in size)(no slides)
should be of live fish and wildlife species in their native habitat, taken in the
state of California and by the person making the entry. ,There ate 9 categories,

with a h entry per classncategory limit. Categories are fish, invertebrate, bird,
mammal, reptile and amphibian, natural environment, shore birds, rodents, and threat-
ened native plants. The natural environment and threatened native plahts will not

be regular categories unless sufficient entries are received to warrant it.

Compact Home Design Competition-~6arden Way Publishing, Charlotte, Vermont OSAAS
(802)9h25-2171 is sponsOring an international competition aimed to demonstrate that
compact homes cost less to build and are more energy-efficient to operate than lar-
ger homes, yet need not sacrifice comfort and enjoyable living qualities. Obtain
entry forms and presentation outlines before submitting by November 1, 1982.

First prize winner will receive $1000. - .

MANUSCRIPTS

The Hastings Law Journal is accepting manuscripts by September 1, 1982 for its 1982-
1983 symposium issue which will be devoted to current issues in public interest law.
Direct all Inquiries to Howard Herman at the Hastings Law Journal, 198 McAllister
Street, San Francisco, CA 94102 (#15) 557-1715. ‘ ‘

 

GRANTS

Trails~~The Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy and the State Coastal Conservancy are
inviting participation in the Santa Monica Mountains/State Coastal Conservancy Joint-
Traii Grant Program. $200,000 is available to qualified non-profit organizations,
state agencies, cities, counties, park and recreation districts for trail construe:
tion and acquisition projects within the Santa Monica Mountains Zone. Applications’
are due by July 31,‘982. Write to the Mountains Conservancy, 107 S. Broadway, Room
7106, Los Angeles, CA 90012 or call Bruce Eisner (213) 620-2021 or Susan Marks of
the Coastal Conservancy at (415) h64~3071.

lNFORMATlON SOUGHT r

Pests--ENDA Third world Technology Relay, P.B. 3370, Dakar, Senegal, would likejto”
receive information from Non-governmental organizations concerned with natural pro~
tection methods against pests, especially those which affect creps and cattle.

 

Organic Farming-~ETC, Consultants for Development Programmes, Kastanjelaan 5, Past-
box 64, 3830 Ab Leusden, Holland, would like information about organizations, prev
jects, and people with knowledge inthe field of organic farming or ”low externale ~
input“ farming. "' 7

\

Waste'Recyclingf-Dama Rice, 1708 Hickory Hill Road, Petersburg, VA 23803, (80A)
733-9323 would like suggestions or advice about the proposed construction of a 1
large waste recycling center and landfill next to the Petersburg National Battle- ’
field. The plant will process solid waste, industrial sludge, and sludge from sew-
age treatment plants, so an EPA operating permit must be granted by the state.
Section 106 of the National Historic PreservationAct of 1966 will apply, forcing the
state Historic PreservationOfficer and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
to review the effects of the plant on the battlefield. She would like to know he
these plants operate and their effects on adjacent lands and neighbors. -

SUPPLIES NEEDED ;
The Sea Shepherd-~The Sea Shepherd ConservatioanQCiety, k51h 18lst Southwest, Lyn-i

 

 

 

wood, WA 98033 or General Delivery, Thousand Oaks, CA 91360 needs supplies to refit
the ship to continue its campaign against whaling and dolphin massacres.’ Tools and
Equipment, navigational devices, and painting supplies are always welcome.

 




%
‘59
'0»

maseseﬁnsmsssaanmmmssa;
ECOLOGY CENTER OF ”SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA ﬁi w

a THE COMPENDIUM v   n

.~- NEWSLETTER -

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND EDITOR: NANCY PEARLMAN

m, , ’ ‘ «.u ‘ cm ‘
.~ 9 W0 '2 . 3 “‘0 *2} '9‘» 3‘
MEQQEWWMMM@QQWHHMMQSQW

POST‘OEF’IOEBOX 35473.:%L:-.’OS«*A.NG.ELES, CALIFORNIA 90035 . PHDNE‘":(213)559,—9:160
JOL¥sAuOOsT’1982 VOL. 10 N0. A «. ISSN @198f9103

)

~H
‘A

”What is man without'the beasts? If all the beasts were gone, men would
die from a great loneliness, of spirit. For whatever happens to the beasts

happens to man. All things are connecte . .2 . j l‘ _

iv ‘ ‘ ' I 4—Chief Seattle, 1854

‘ . fh-‘._‘§ \ \\
’ -2‘4. ;;>»3.
/ 0. 7:] “l‘ \\ \ N5“r”1f\:n\ :23? - /
/ ,,/ I , «f, ". \‘\\\ \‘» Q _‘ ‘,\‘ "I," I '.
I, // ‘47”. \‘w “ ..~\ -§ "'4 ’
‘ ’“ “’ ‘742"‘“f7~ '
«W 'l" W" '- - -._
”W"’r. r/’/:
‘.vﬂ/I'.1/
“Wrwy/gyt -
II“. [/11
"—J'l’ .4, ,
34 \

‘ .."’-1‘5“>‘

”The nation behaves well if it treats the natural resources as an asset
whichit must turn over tothe‘next generation, increased andnot
‘ '~ impaired in value. ff ,. ' “ ‘ ' ‘ '

. L

——Theodoré Roosevelt

.2
L. ‘.

WEAT IS THE ECOLOGY QENTER' WITHOUT YOU?

 

Without your support and participation, the Ecology Center would not exist. .As we begin
our. eleventh year this August, we wish to expand our membership (and financial base) in
order that we can engage in more conservation activities. As volunteers, we will con-
tipue .toprOvide'a voice for all creatures. ‘Please help by giving a special contribution
and/or a gift membership to a friend orpujblic library. . Dues paid in response to this
special appeal will qualify for membership privileges for the remainder of this year as
well as for the next regular calendar-year of 1983. Do your part so we can do ours.

 




EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR'S REPORT . "”351“! " . *1
for May-June 1982
by Nancy Sue Pearlman

ACTIVITIES ‘

Continued to provide general information and referral services to teﬁephone.callers
and letter writers '

Handled routine administrative tasks such as processing the mail (very extensive),
maintaining the membership files, and making special appeals

Testified at the California Coastal Commission hearing regarding the COunty of
Grange's Local Coastal Plan on the Bolsa Chica (Opposed the Signal Company's pro-
posed devel0pment of turning an estuary into a marina and housing area.

Testified at the City of Los Angeles' Board of Water and Power Commissioners in
support of the initiative, ”Water Resources Conservation and Efficiency Act”

Encouraged natural history programming on television and continuation of such series
as“Life on Earth on KCET

Listed in ”Volunteer Community Resource, a List of Educational Enrichment and Spe-
cialized Services Available to Schools“ in the Los Angeles area

Obtained reviews from Michael Goodman and Debra Callahan (thank you)

Staffed an Earth Day table at University of California, irvine

Handled yearly fiscal reports and tax papers

Spoke at the Greenpeace Orange County Rally for a Comprehensive Test Ban

Viewed film about Dories in the Grand Canyon as part of the Friends of the River
fundraiser

Presented slide show on the Perepheral Canal to NUPC

Screened the film “The Atomic Cafe”

Had Elaine Stansfield present a film ”Tomorrow's Children” and speak on ”Population
and the Environment at the Airport Marina Group of the Angeles Chapter, Sierra
Club ’

Permitted use of page one of the May-June ”Compendium” by the United Nations Associ-
ation of Los Angeles (regarding ”For every child a tree”--on World EnvironmentDay

Endorsed the letter to the Environmental Protection Agency by the Urban Environment

« COnference regarding EPA's proposal to relax gasoline lead regulations (opposed)

Joined the National Coalition for Lead Control

Represented by Ron Hudson at the Hazardous Materials Management Conference

EVENTS ATTENDED

Tenth Anniversary of the Santa Monica Mountains Task Force honoring Jill Swift

Reagan protest demonstration to oppose cuts in the budget for the environment

Beverly-Glen Community Fair '

Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy Board meeting (by Ron Hudson)

”Coffees“ to meet political candidates including Tom Hayden

Friends of Ballona Wetlands ”Fiesta de la Ballona” fundraiser with Edward Abbey

Commitment Saturday, Plans for Peace Sunday

Conference”Measuring Changes in the San Francisco Bay Environment“ by the San Fran-
cisco Bay Chapter Oceanic Society

Conference on “San Francisco Bay and Delta Another Mono Lake? A Conference on the
Environment of the West's Most important Estuary“ regarding the Peripheral Canal

 

 

 

ECOLOGY CENTER NEWS

MEMBERS--Thank you for joining. All activities are supported by your dues.
During the past two months, the following joined or renewed
Renewals:

 

Gail Hartman Elaine Stansfield Melba Simms

New:

California Native Plant Conservation Endowment Fund lzaak Walton League
Society, Santa Monica Ronald Hudson“ (idyilwild)
Mountains Chapter David Schmier Dr. Richard J. Vogl

Exchange:

United Nations Association of Los Angeles
Bi-Monthlngledge:
Michael Goodman

 

(

 




 

Weadowbtbolg‘Pt’éss m ”M

Jan. 13, 1982
Dear FREE STUFF FOR KIDS supplier:

Although 1982 is barely underway, it's time to start planning the
1983 edition of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS, and I'm writing once again to
ask if you would like to continue your listing in the book. I'm
aware that many of you have not had much of a chance to gauge the
response generated by the 19 82 edition (which was actually published
in August 1981). I'm sorry that my production schedule obliges me to
rush you like this.

However, I can give you a good idea of what you can expect in 1983,
based on my past experience with FREE STUFF FOR KIDS. Sales of the
book have held steady at 110, 000-120, 000 OOpies a year for the past

two years, and I expect much the sane for 1983. I also expect that the
number of recrests each s *cplier receives will remain the same. Last
year's survey of srppliers in the book revealed that they received

an average of 6,500 requests. (Some very popular items received

as many as 15,000 requests, but this was rare; most suppliers received
between 3,000 and 8,000 requests. Items that cost something generally
received fewer requests .)

The 1983 edition of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS will follow exactly the same
format as that used in previous editions. As in those editions , I
will include items that are available by mail free, or for up to a
dollar (including postage and handling). And I will still ask that
suppliers agree to respond to readers' requests from the date the
book is published (probably in August 1982 ), through December 31,1983.

I've enclosed a 1983 release form to fill out if you do decide to

stay in the book. In addition, I've enclosed the pages in the current
edition that list your offer (5) . Please note any changes that you
would like to make in your offer (price, address) right on these pages.
If you are adding a new item, just list it on the form and send us

a sample. (Would you also send us a sample of your offer if it has
changed in any way .)

I've drawn up a survey that asks a number of questions about your
experience so far with FREE STUFF FOR KIDS requests. I'd appreciate
your filling it out, even if you do decide to drop out of the book.
(That is, dropping out at the end of 19 82. I'm assuming that your
agreement to provide items through 1982 still stands.)

Please do call me if you have any questions at all. In any event,
I look forward to hearing from you.

Yours truly ,

MMM

Louise Delagranm
FREE STUFF editor

 

    

.18318 Minnetcnka Blvd. 9 Deephaven‘, MN 55391.3:i.(5102).473-54oo ;, ....

n .
.3...“ .ac- a; mi .. 4» 4w... .,.L.-., 1., ..:,.4... : 3 ..‘..‘..~~\-x;r‘




 

Name

Organization fiLA)’
Date ‘ wile/9 IL

 

FREE STUFF Survey

 

Please take the time to fill this out the best you can. Your response will
help us in our contacts with other suppliers and in our plans for future
editions of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS.

How many requests for your item(s ) have you received since your offers
first appeared in FREE STUFF FOR KIDS? (If you haven't kept records, can you
give an estimate?)

Win/1m: MOO W, W @792

Has the request rate been steady each month, or have there been months when
the number of requests was higher than others? Please specify.

WWW

Did readers generally follow directions (did they send the right amount of
money, a SASE, etc. )? Was it clear what they were asking for?

WWWWW

Finally, are you pleaEZAAQZZEM:::E%§%4n8ﬁlW materials have been presented in

FREE STUFF FOR KIDS and are you happy with the response and exposure that
the book has generated for your organization?

71%, W714,

 




 

1983 FREE STUFF Release Form

You have our permission to include the following offer(s) in FREE STUFF FOR KIDS
(please name the item(s) and indicate with each whether the item is completely free—-
in which case we will tell readers to send requests on a postcard--or whether you
would like readers to send you a self-addressed, staxrped envelope (SASE) and/or some
amount under a dollar).

Item free SASE cost
(postcard)

 

Kilroy: ¥ CM: “‘ .10 ¢
\I/w «(yam/OW? 20¢

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(You may want to photocopy this sheet if you need more room.)

We agree to respond to requests from readers for one each of the above item(s) through
Dec. 1983 We reserve the right to substitute comparaEle items if necessary (if original
supplies run out, or if the item is revised), and we will send a sample of such items

to Meadowbrook Press.

Wm

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signa
QMHMWUWS YE‘C- _ 410/
Title Organization
mm ‘ pa. 72m @150
Date Eldress

2013374551 Wank Dc, @000]

Phone City State Zip

Please print the full address for readers to
use when they send in their requests (you may W
want to code it to help identify requests): 5W (9/4

 

 

 

 

7'C'C'~’PLEASE SEE OVE Rv'o'c'r

 




 

Please answer the following questions:

1. Can we reprint a short excerpt (a few sentences or a paragraph) from one
of your publications? We like to give our readers some idea of the kind of
information they' 11 get from you.

‘/ Yes No

2. When we promote the book, can we allow local, regional or national newspapers
and magazines to reprint your FREE STUFF offers?

\/ Yes __No
3. Can we include your materials in a Canadian edition of FREE STUFF?

[/" Yes No

 

Any special conditions?

Yes 1/ No

 

BE SURE '10 INCLUDE A SAMPLE
OF YOUR OFFER

 




 

\\ \
the total dog /\

PETS

How do you pick out the right dog for you? What and ’
how much should you feed it? You can find the

answers to these questions and many others when you

send for this book on dog care.

directions: Use paper and an envelope. You
must send in 50¢.

ask for: ‘ Sergeant’s Dog Care Book

write to: Sergeant’s Dog Care Book

Miller-Morton Co.
3800 Cutshaw Ave.
Richmond, VA 23230

a well-trained dog

Your dog wants to be a happy member of your family. \ \ ‘7 ' '
He deserves to be well-trained so that he won’t be ' /u , ‘ ' ’ l
scolded! A well-trained dog should learn six simple '
rules. You can find out how to teach him these rules by

sending for the 28-page dog care booklet from Ken-L //
Ration. -'" /‘A
directions: Use a postcard.

ask for: How to Care for, Train and Feed ' f &’
Your Dog .

write to: Dog Care Booklet Q
Box 6333 ‘ ~ I !
Chicago, IL 60677 . ' .,

 




 

/\ g fisherman’s friend *

PETS

Bet you don’t know what
like! Send away for a b
information aboutt ‘
fish and dives for

directions:

 
 
 

_ for:
rite to:

directions:

askfon

write to:

 

 

 
  

     
   

ortuguese water dog looks
per sticker, decal and
endangered species that catches
jects lost underwater.

Use paper and a long envelope. You

"must enclose a long, self—addressed,

stamped envelope and 50¢.

Preserving Portuguese Water Dogs
Mrs. Herbert H. Miller, Jr.

One Greenley Rd.

New Canaan, CT 06840

kids’ best friends

Your cat and dog can be your best friends. Learn how
to treat them better by sending away for these two
booklets that have pictures you can color.

Use paper and an envelope. You
must enclose 20¢ for each booklet
that you order.

Kittens and Cats
You and Your Dog

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

 




     

*M} £3»

1%, , 4,-
t'x'ﬁ' 15% '

H @5» a1 you .W to W W;
Weadowbtﬁolg‘Ptéss .. (MW mwﬁw/W)

M/ W 44/
February 20, 1981 do ya I) W”

Dear FREE STUFF FOR KIDS supplier:

Mien we sent you a copy of the 1981 edition of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS
last November, we had just printed 50, 000 copies of that book. Last
month we went back to press for another 50,000 copies, and if the book

continues to sell as it has, we'll need to reprint it again in June or
July.

When we do reprint the book, we would like to release it as the 1982

edition (guaranteeing the availability of the offers in it through

December 31 of that year). So we're writing you now to ask for authorization
to include your offer (3) in the 1982 edition. We are aware that you have
had very little time to assess your participation in the book, and we are
sorry to rush you like this, but we will need to know whether you would like
to stay in the book by March 20,1981

1' ve included a 1982 release form to fill out if you decide to stay in
the book In addition I've enclosed the pages in the current edition that
list your offer(s). Please note any changes that you would like us to make
in your offer (price, address), as well as any changes in the copy that you
would like us to consider, right on these pages. If you are adding a new
item, just list it on the form and send us a sanple. a; Wt-Iwy;

 

 

I've also drawn up a survey that asks a nuuber of questions about your
experience so far with FREE STUFF FOR KIDS requests. I'd appreciate your
filling it out, even if you do decide to drop out of the book.

I'm sorry to burden you with all of this material at once, but it seemed
sensible to do it all now. Please do call if you have any further connents

or questions, and either Louise Delagran, the assistant editor on this project,
or I will be glad to discuss this in more detail.

Thanks again for all your work.

Gordially ,

Tom Grady 45%"

FREE STUFF editor
enclosures

P.S. We'll let you know when the new edition cares out.

18318 MInnetonka Blvd. 0 Doephaven, MN 55391 0 (812) 473-5400

 




 

1982 FREE STUFF Release Form

  
 
 

You>have our permission to include the fOllowing offer(s) in FREE STUFF FOR‘12“*t=
(please name the item(s) and indicate with each whether the itenlis completely free-—
in.which case we will tell readers to send requests on a postcard-—or whether you
would like readers to send you a self~addressed, stamped envelope (EASE) and/or some
lammmtlrmbraaCbleﬂ.

 

 

Item free SASE cost
(postcard)
Kittens and Cats 20¢
You and Your Dog 20¢

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(You may'want to photocopy this sheet if you need more roonL)

We agree to respond to requests from.readers for one each of the above item(s) through
Dec. 1982. we reserve the right to substitute comparEEle items if necessary (if original
supplies run out, or if the item.is revised), and we will send a sample of such itens
to MEadOWbrOOR Press.

5, W‘ m
ignatL@e Name

Publications Secretary

 

 

 

 

Title Organization
3/10/81 - P.O. Box 3650
Date Address

20143?— 2337.

Phone City State Zip

 

Please print the full address fbr readers to
use When they send in their requests (you may
want to code it to help identify requests); same as above

 

 

 

 

J 1" ‘ '
IﬁwcPLEASE SEE ovmw'dr

 




 

 

Please answer the following questions:

Can we reprint a short excerpt (a few sentences or a paragraph) from.one
of your publications? 'We like to give our readers some idea of the kind of

infOrUation they'll get fronlyou.
X Yes No

When we pronote the hock, can we allow local, regional or national newspapers
and magazines to reprint your FREE STUFF offers?

X: Yes No

Can we include your materials in a Canadian edition of FREE STUFF?

Yes i..._~lk’This has already been done.1
Any special conditions?

Yes XI No

 

BE SURE TO INCLUDE A SAMPLE
OF YOUR OFFER

 




O

‘Namg Animal Welfare Institute

 

 

Organization
Date 3 {10 (3]

LEE STUFF Survey

 

Please take the time to fill this out the best you can. YOur response will
help us in our contacts with other suppliers and.in our plans for future editions

of the FREE STUFF boOks.

lkmznany requests for your iteHKS) have you.received since your offers first
appeared.in FREE STUFF? (If you.haVen't kept records, can you give an estimate?)

estimate = 3,600 requests

Has the request rate been steady each.nonth, or have there been months when
the number of requests was higher than others? Please specify.

Requests have been steady for all months.

Did readers generally follow directions (did they send the right amount of
‘money, a SASE, etc)? was it clear what they were asking fbr?

.They generally followed directions and were
clear in their requests.

Finally, are you.p1eased with the way your materials have been presented in
FREE STUFF and are you.happy with the response and exposure that the boOk
has generated fOr your organization?

Yes.

 




O

fisherman’s friend '

Bet you don’t know a Portuguese Waterdog PETS
looks like! Send away fo -= bumpersticker,
and information about this . dangered speci
catches fish and dives for ob] lost un-
directions: Use paper an . ‘~ '
You must enclo
addressed, 3 .

 

      
        
  
  

  

and 50¢.
ask for: ‘Waterdogs
write to: ‘ 3. Herbert H. Miller, Jr.

One Greenley Rd.

New Canaan, CT 06840

kids’ best friends

Your cat and dog can be your best friends. Learn
how to treat them better by sending away for these
two booklets that have pictures you can color.

directions: Use paper and an envelope.
You must enclose 20¢ for each
booklet that you order.

  

ask for: Kittens and Cats
You and Your Dog
write to: Animal Welfare Institute
‘ PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

 

 




 

directions:

 

 

ask for:

write to:

 

 

 

Al horses.
1 directions:

 

l askfor:
write to:

 

 

 

 

the cowboys
favorite horse

Do you know the cowboy song, “I Ride an Old
Paint”? An old “paint” is a paint horse, also called the
pinto. You can find out more about this animal from
the American Paint Horse Association.

Use a postcard.

Brochures and Pictures of the
Paint Horse

American Pain? Horse Association
Suite FS 81 '
P.O. BOX 18519

Fort Worth, TX 76118

Paint horses have all kinds of colored spottings on
their coats. You can “paint” your own paint horse
‘ when you send for this coloring book filled with

Use paper and an envelope.
You must send in $1.00.

1 A Colorful Book of Paint Horses

American Paint Horse Association
Suite FS 81

RC. Box 18519

Fort Worth, TX 76118

 




     

EB. 18

 

 

Revision form for your entry DEADLINE
in the 4th edition-1982

“"‘K A Guide to New and Established 0 Private and Special Interest d I it t_ P
0 Avant-Garde and Alternative 0 Organization and Association 0 Government an ns t u lon resses
V | V .
s L
lllllhlltl‘

Ilil‘L‘CﬂM‘Y l Gale Research Company

150 E. SOSt. New York, NY 10022 ' Phone (212) 751-3033

   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

    
  
 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

£338,330“ "39 °"'Y Your entry as it appeared in BPD-3
Name rev. (Please double-check zip code and phone number.)
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE I
PO Box 3650 Phone: (202) 337-2332
Washington, DC '20007 Founded: 1951
PRINCIPAL OFFICIALS & MANAGERS: Christine
Stevens, President; Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President;
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary; Roger L. Stevens,
Treasurer.
NO. OF NEW TITLES: I979 - 2; 1980 -l;19814(-H!7-
X ,2 Mia (ad) I
DESCRIPTION: Publishes humane educational materials
" and distributes particular manuals to teachers and
libraries, free of charge. Also, special manuals for
veterinarians, scientists and those working with
laboratory animals.
V SUBJECTS: Animal welfare.
t/ RETURNS POLICY: Returns accepted.
‘ SELECTED TITLES: Animals and Their Legal Rights by .
Emily Leavitt et £11.; The Status 0 nimals in the Christian ___,,J
Religion by Major C.W. Hume; he Principles of Humane
Experimental Technique by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch;
PLEASE DRAW A LINE THROU( Facts about Furs by Greta Nilsson et al.;Physical and CORRECTIONS.
Your entry should include a” the Mental Suffering ofExperimental Animals by Jeff Diner; ate spaces below.
Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals.
Year Founded . - ' ' D Yes D No
Principal Officials & Managers ,
Name Tine
Name Title Name i Title
Name Title Name Title
No. of New Titles 1980 1981 g. 1982(est.) I
O ‘ '
Description 0 redu l ' +914 ' .0411 ’ I I’ I -J. and ’ b ”74”!
Please Describe Briellyt e lstory.Purpose.and Aims olYourP olishing House.
Subjects .
Please Indicate Special Sublectls). it any: e.g. Religion. Occult, Data Processmg.
Discounts
Bookstores Libraries Other
Mergers and/or Amalgamations Year
Returns Policy
Address for Returns :
i
Imprints. Divisions. Subsidiaries ;
- i
Titles of Publications
Please List up to Six Representative Titles Author f
Title , , W‘O' - E
the Bird Busrl’less LAS‘htolti/ O‘F .‘H‘lC Commercial CQQL Bird mdc ,. bv Clretct M It )5803’):
T‘ Author 5

tie . l ‘d
we}? Vs Whales: A Continuing COMWWJPubluMAag bym Animal ”$1?th

l

W321? 0mm Lee rife/4o ﬁubﬁaﬁi’ﬁf Wit/gym lays/«FL—

O N ite /
Cl BROCHURES ENCLOSED

 

 

i

 

l - i ,. l D DEFUNCT

‘ D lNACTlVE
Animal Welfare Institute [:1 MERGEDWITH
P.O. 301‘ 5650 D OTHERCHANGES

i-lashing‘ton, DC 20007

I I Rec. 401 codes (ed. use only)

 

 

 

 

 

 

   




 

 

 

 

   
 

A Guide to New and Established - Private and Special interest
“I.|iS||ers Avaanarde and Alternative 0 Organizational and Association 0 Government and institution Presses

mufﬁn" Gale Research Company

150 E. $08!. New York, NY 10022 Phone(212) 751-3033

 

 

Dear Publisher:

This is a request for information to update your entry for the new
edition of BOOK PUBLISHERS DIRECTORY, now in preparation.

Since librarians, booksellers, and others use this directory for guidance
in placing orders, it is important that your listing be both accurate and
up-to-date.

For your guidance, I am enclosing a copy of your entry in
the previous edition attached to a yellow Revision Form.

Please cross out any incorrect information on your old entry . . . and
enter the corrections on the appropriate lines of the form. Then mail
back the yellow Revision Form, complete with the old entry.

Do not hesitate to expand your entry by filling in any data missing in
the earlier edition of BOOK PUBLISHERS DIRECTORY.

Your correct address . . . phone number . . . discount schedules
description of your publications . . . and names of people in charge are
all important to those who will contact you as a result of this listing.
BOOK PUBLISHERS DIRECTORY is your link to thousands of book buyers and
information seekers. .

Please be sure to mail back the Revision Form and old entry this week.
I am enclosing a return envelope for your convenience. Thank you.

Sincerely,

(Aldo 44140me

Linda Hubbard
Editor, BOOK PUBLISHERS DIRECTORY

P.S. There is no charge or obligation of any kind for being listed
in this Directory. Nor will anyone cOntact you now or later
to try to sell you an ad. The entire cost of publication is
borne by the people who buy the Directory for use as a reference
tool.

 




 

LISTING SHEET

for
ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS

The following information is desired for your listing in the ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE
TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS for the school year 1982—1983.

NEW.MATERIALS
Kindly add new items to this list. IMPORTANT: Send us copies of ALL materials

listed, for our permanent file.

 

Please return this sheet to Kathleen Suttles Nehmer, Editor, ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE
TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS, 285 Park Drive, Randolph, Wisconsin 53956.

CORRECTIONS: _
Please make necessary corrections to current listings shown below.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AVAILABILITY:
Cross out items no longer available.
RESTRICTIONS QR_INSTRUCTIONS‘QN_DISTRIBUTION: (Please answer all questions)
Single copies \/ Limit of copies
Available in classroom quantities? Yes No
Available to professional staff only? Yes 15: No
Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes V/ No
Suggested grade level l-L
Distribution restricted to certain geographical areas? (Specify) —-

 

 

Any other restrictions?
Available to schools? Yes )£_No Libraries? Yes u/ No Industries? Yes No X

 

Available to schools, libraries,ﬁand industries in Canada?w—Yes_1£ No __
If available elsewhere, please state where available madam: worldwide.

COMPLETE ADDRESS TO WHICH REQUESTS SHOULD BE DIRECTED: (Please use your zip code)

Fill in: ,
Ammd Welfare ’1th ’M—c

PO. Box 3(050
Wuskina‘l’on DC 3000'?

YOUR MATERIAL WAS LISTED IN THE 1981 EDITION OF THE ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE
CURRICULUM MATERIALS AS FOLLOWS:

*YOU AND YOUR DOG
If you are good to your dog, you will have a faithful and
loving friend. This leaflet, for primary grades, tells how to
be kind to your dog. It contains pictures suitable for coloring.
Single copy free to professional staff only; additional copies
are 20¢ each. Request must be written on official stationery.
This informative leaflet is available world—wide to schools and

libraries.
Animal Welfare Institute

This listing sheet approved by:

MA % 527/594 Tublltafz‘ons Secre fa”! Z/é/h/ Z"7"537' 233 7/

Nam? Position ate

Telephone Number

 

 




 

*HOW TO LIVEN UP YOUR CLASSROOM WITH A POD OF WHALES

Some class sessions devoted to programs on the whales can be
valuable in getting across simple Scientific concepts to children '
by combining our knowledge of the whale with dance, mime, painting,
and writing. The child's understanding and awareness of the world
around him can grow from this. This activity sheet tells how this
can be accomplished. Single copies are available world—wide to
members of the professional staff only. Available to schools and
libraries.

Animal Welfare Institute

 

 

*LETTER FROM A WHALE, A

This amusing letter from a whale tells about the tragic history
of the whale. Through relating the eVents which led to the decline
in the whale population, this letter helps students to realize the
need for conservation of this animal. Single copies are available

world—wide to members of the professional staff only. Available to
schools and libraries.

Animal Welfare Institute

KITTENS AND CATS

Every cat is a little bit different from every other cat, but
each one wants a kind owner. This leaflet, designed for use in the
primary grades, tells how to treat kittens and cats. It contains
pictures suitable for coloring. Single copies are free to members of
the professional staff who make their request on official stationery.
Available world—wide; additional copies are 20¢ each. Available to
schools and libraries only.

Animal Welfare Institute

BEFRIENDING ANIMALS

Since children have a natural interest in animals, it is not
difficult to teach kindness to animals. The author of this article
gives a national and international view of humane education and its
relatedness to classroom activities. Suggestions are given for
correlating humane education with science and the arts. Primary
level. Single copies are available free. Available world—wide.
Available to members of the professional staff only. Use official
stationery. Available to schools, libraries, and industries.

Animal Welfare Institute

*GOOD KIND LION . . f
Suppose an enormous lion suddenly appeared right in front 0

you, what would you do?...Well, there probably wouldn't be much you
could do, except sit tight and hope that he was a good kind lion.
And that's pretty well what all smaller creatures have to do when
you suddenly appear in front of them—~they all gust hope that you
are a good kind lion, too. This leaflet for primary grades tells
a few of the things that you, as a good kind lion, can do in caring
for your pets. Single copies are free to members of the profesf
sional staff who make their request on official stationery; addi—
tional copies are 20¢ each. Available world—wide to schools
and libraries.

Animal Welfare Institute

 




 

 

 




 

Established Patricia H. Suttles

1934 _ - ., 'Pubhsher
414-326-3126 , ’
<- ' . c~
gﬁhunainra ﬁrngress ﬁermre, Cﬂm.
214 Center Street - Reply to:
Randolph, Wisconsin 53956 Kathleen Suttles Nehmer

285 Park Drive
Randolph, Wisconsin 53956

EDUCATORS INDEX OF January 1 l , 1982
FREE MATERIALS

Animal Welfare Institute

a P. O. Box 3650
EDUCATORS GUIDE To FREE

quMS Washington, D. C. 20007
' Gentlemen:
EDUCATORSGUHMETOFREE The ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS
FILMSTRIPS . . . . .
is a bound book containing listings of booklets, pamphlets,
. maps, charts, posters, books, exhibits, which various firms and
agencies are willing to furnish schools and libraries without
EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE Charge ' '
AUDIO AND VIDEO
MATERUUES This ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS

covers the elementary level only, but it does include a section
on ”Teacher Reference and Professional Growth Materials."

EDUCATORS GRADE GUIDE

TOFREETEACHDN3AHE We are now preparing a new annual edition of this service
to include new materials and to delete listings of items no
. longer available. We would appreciate your sending us, for
listing in the publication, any free materials you issue which
EDUCATORSGUHMETOFREE you think would enrich school and library materials services.

SCIENCE MATERIALS
No charge or Obligation is placed on the issuing agency
other than furnishing with reasonable promptness, the materials
requested during the next school year. Your wishes relative to
EDUCATORS(“”DE1I)FREE any limitations or instructions will be included in the listing.
SOCIAL STUDIES Th . . . . t 1 f th d' t 'b .— f h
”MynﬂuALS e 1ssu1ng agencies retain con ro o e ls r1 ution o t e
' materials.

We are enclosing a listing sheet which we would appreciate

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE your filling out and returning to us as soon as possible.
GUIDANCE MATERIALS

Thank you for your cooperation.

. SinCerely yours,
EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE

HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION .
AND RECREATION MATERIALS WM? ,0 J WM

KSNzlw Kathleen Suttles Nehmer

ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE _ Enc . . Editor
TO FREE CURRICULUM .
MATERIALS P S

When replying, please reply to me at my home address:
285 Park Drive, Randolph, Wisconsin 53956.

 

 

 




A

Established
1934

414-326-3126

 

EDUCATORS INDEX OF
FREE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
FILMS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
FILMSTRIPS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
AUDIO AND VIDEO
MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GRADE GUIDE
TO FREE TEACHING AIDS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
SCIENCE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
SOCIAL STUDIES
MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE'To FREE
GUIDANCE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION
AND RECREATION MATERIALS

ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE
TO FREE CURRICULUM
MATERIALS

 

 

Patricia H. Suttles
Publisher

<-' . (v
gﬁhunatnrs ﬁrmness 52mm, 041m.
214 Center Street
Randolph, Wisconsin 53956

November 10. 1981

Animal Welfare Institute
P. 0. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Sponsor:

Through EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS, you have been able to make
known to educators, librarians and others the availability of the
fine printed materials which you distribute free of charge.

We are now in the process of preparing the new edition of EDUCATORS
INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS for use during the next academic year. As
you are no doubt aware, the INDEX is revised annually in order to
keep the information on available materials current and to include
new materials of educational value.

You will find enclosed a sheet to which are attached clips of the
listings of your materials as they appear in the current edition of
the INDEX. Please be so kind as to check over this material, make
any necessary corrections or deletions, and sign the approval form at
the bottom. If you have any new pamphlets, booklets, books, maga-
zines, newsletters, leaflets, maps, posters, charts, pictures, dis-
plays, or exhibits which you are willing to offer free of charge,
please list these on the white New Listings sheet. “——

 

You will remember that there is no charge to you for your listing in
the INDEX. Your only obligation will be to provide the materials
listed to properly qualified individuals or institutions who request
them from you in accordance with the restrictions that you have
placed upon the offer. Requests are made directly to the address
which you designate.

 

Please remember to sign the Listing Sheet and forward to me at the
address below two copies of each item which you wish to have con-
sidered for inclusion in the INDEX. Thank you very much.

Sincerely yours,

44.2.... //7§/w~e\

Linda K. Keenan, Editor
EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
222 Park Avenue

Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916

Telephone: (414) 887-8677




 

 

BETTER NUTRITION STUDIES

This booklet describes nutrition studies without the employ-

ment of the traditional deprivation approach. It is a reprint

of an article from Ihg_American Biology Teacher. Single copies
(5!: are available world- wide, if request is made on official sta-

tionery.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P. 0. BOX 3650

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

*FACTSﬁFURS
Thi IS a 250—page book on the history of fur trapping, the 1
animals trapped, the methods of killing, the arguments over
traps, legal aspects, and alternatives to fur trapping.
FIRST AID AND CARE OF SMALL ANIMALS
. This is a 45- -page booklet which discusses many aspects of

we: W‘ ”WWW“ “‘r * 4mm m wwy ml «Maj Schools.

LIVE ORGANISMS IN HIGH SCHOOL BIOLOGY
These two pamphlets deal with the use, care, and treabnent
of living animals that are used in school biology and
science classes. Suggestions are made for projects designed . 22 A”-
to discourage experiments that involve surgery or stress on ’2 . '.- 7 ‘ ' .Wg:
all“ live animals. , ' . ' r

(Single copies of each title are available world-wide to
professional staff if requested on official stationery.)
ANIMAL NELFARE INSTITUTE

s P. 0. BOX 3650 ‘ ' ‘
WASHINGTON, D. c. 20007 Aj‘ .

 

 

 

 

*GOOD KIND LION
*KITTENS AND CATS
LET US LIVE

*YOU AND YOUR DOG
These leaflets, which ar
various aspects of animal
pets as an enjoyable rec
of each title are avail
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITU
P. 0. BOX 3650 .
WASHINGTON,_D. C._ 20007 n,,

   
  
   
  
  
 
 

' lustrated in color, discuss Wm

are and recommend the caring for
ional pastime. Up to 50 copies
le orld-wide.

 

WWW

 




 

Listing Sheet for Items Previously
EDUCATORS INDEX QE_FREE MATERIALS Listed in the INDEX

 

Your material was listed in the last edition of EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS as
follows: '

(see reverse side)

If you would like this material to be included in the next edition of the INDEX, please
make and corrections and sign below.

CORRECTIONS: Please note any corrections to be made on the above entry. Be sure to
check address, including ZIP Code. Please delete the item if no longer available,

and return form to address below.

 

NEW MATERIALS: Please list any new materials on the enclosed white listing sheet.

 

 

 

RESTRICTIONS 911 DISTRIBUTIml If any changes in distribution restrictions are to
be made, please note belovL:/ .

 

Single copies only A limit of ‘ copies per request
Available in classroom quantities? Yes No

Available to professional staff only? Yes No

Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes No

Distribution restricted to specific geographical area? (Specify) V

 

Any other restrictions on distribution or limitations on quantity?

 

W

Available to schools? Yes No Libraries? Yes No Industries? Yes____ No____

Available to schools, libraries, aﬁd'industries in canaaa? Yes No
Available world-wide? Yes No *.

 

Please return this Listing Sheet with two (2) copies of all
materials to be listed to:

Linda K. Keenan, Editor

EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
222 Park Avenue

Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916

Deadline for receipt of copy: December 15th

Publications Secretary 9 Dec. 1981

 

 

 

 

Position Date

Cynthia Lee Stokes 202-337-2332
Name typed or printed Telephone (Area code and number)

 

 

 




 

'THE BIRD BUSINESS: A STUDY OF THE COMMERCIAL CAGE BIRD TRADE
A documented and illustrated study of the inhumane aspects
of the commercial cage bird trade: lZl-page boOk. ‘

WHALES VERSUS WHALERS: A CONTINUING COMMENTARY
Articles published from 1970 to 1981 by the Animal welfare
Institute on national and international efforts to prevent
extinction of whales.

LET US LIVE

Cee Leaflet on trapping, illustrated in color
0
«<3 YOU AND YOUR DOG
0 KITTENS AND CATS
LOQ\\ Pamphlets which teach children aspects of humane pet care,

with illustrations suitable for coloring.

GOOD KIND LION
An illustrated, color story for children

HOW TO LIVEN UP YOUR CLASSROOM WITH A POD OF WHALES

A LETTER FROM A WHALE

A WHALE OF A FRIEND
Three pamphlets designed to teach children about the nature
and plight of whales

BEFRIENDING ANIMALS
ATTITUDES TOWARDS ANIMALS
Articles discussing science and humane education

 




  

4

 

Listing Sheet for .
EDUCATORS INDEX QE_FREE MATERIALS New Materials

 

 

The following information is requested for materials that you wish to have
considered for listing in the next edition of EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS.
Please send two (2) copies of all_materials for oUr files.

TITLES: Please list all items that we may include in the EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE
MATERIALS. If more space is needed, use the reverse side of this sheet or request

mmv‘ihlalféé" 323?:sz ﬁgﬂé‘éé: A Continuing Commentary
The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird Trade
How to Liven Up Your Classroom With a Pod of Whales
A Whale of a Friend '
A Letter From a Whale
Befriending.Animals
Attitudes Toward Animals

RESTRICTIONS QN_DISTRIBUTION: (Please answer all questions)

 

 

Single copies only x: _ A limit of copies

Available in classroom quantities? Yes No 3X

Available to professional staff only? Yes x: No

Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes ){ No
Distribution restricted to specific geographical area? (Specify)

 

 

Any other restrictions on distribution or limitations on quantity?

 

Available to schools? Yes_z(__ No____' Libraries? Yes___)_(__ No________ Industries? Yes______x No______
Available to schools, libraries, and industries in Canada? Yes it No
Available world-wide? Yes X2 No -

COMPLETE ADDRESS TO WHICH REQUESTS SHOULD BE DIRECTED:

Animal Welfare Institute

 

 

P.0. Box 3650

._—~—Jdash4Jgytoaw—£AA3r—~2£KM¥L——_————————————

ZIP Code

 

 

Please return this listing Sheet with two (2) copies of all
materials to be listed to:

Linda K. Keenan, Editor

EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
222 Park Avenue

Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916

Deadline for receipt of copy: December 15th

This Listing She approved by:

Position Dage

nthia Lee Stokes 202-337-2332
Name typed or printed Phone (Area code and number)

 

 




 

THE BIRD BUSINESS: A STUDY OF THE C(MMERCIAL CAGE BIRD TRADE
A documented and illustrated study of the inhumane aspects
of the commercial cage bird trade: lZl-page book. ‘

WHALES VERSUS WHALERS: A CONTINUING COMMENTARY
Articles published from 1970 to 1981 by the Animal welfare
Institute on national and international efforts to prevent
extinction of whales.

LET US LIVE

C69 Leaflet on trapping, illustrated in color
0
(€()\& YOU AND YOUR DOG
0 KITTENS AND CATS
(“ORA Pamphlets which teach children aSpects of humane pet care,

with illustrations suitable for coloring.

GOOD KIND LION
An illustrated, color story for children

HOW TO LIVEN UP YOUR CLASSROOM WITH A POD OF WHALES

A LETTER FRO“! A WHALE

A WHALE OF A FRIEND
Three pamphlets designed to teach children about the nature
and plight of whales

BEFRIENDING ANIMALS
ATTITUDES TOWARDS ANIMALS
Articles discussing science and humane education

 




\yp ugﬁﬁg;
‘ t)“ Center for
\ Envmonmental
Education

WINE)

I have recently jointed the education committee of a group of
organizations who are working toward the reauthorization of the
Endangered Species Act in 1982.

 

In order to coordinate efforts and avoid ”re~inventing the
wheel" I am compiling a list of information available on or about
the Endangered Species Act or endangered species that various
groups will have available by January 1982.

 

 

Enclosed is a form to make the process a little easier for you.
I appreciate your taking the time to complete the form. Please

include titles, and prices of any materials or publications you
include.

Thank you for your time and effort

Be , \

Tw L ’rge
Educa nal Coordinator

624 9th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20001
(202)737l3600

 




 

 

 

ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT and/or ENDANGERED SPECIES EDUCATIONAL
MATERIAL

f A Or anization: -
Name 0 gen” or g ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Address (include state and zip code): Phone Number:

Washington, D.C. 20007
Executive Director:

Christine Stevens, President

Public Relations; Education and/or Phone Number/
Information Officers: . Extension:
Fran Lipscomb
Executive Assistant 202-337-2332

Areas and subjects of expertise and goals of agency:

Goals: to promote animal welfare nationally and internationally

through humane education
Subjects of expertisee.“endangered.species, with an emphaSIs on

whales: marine mammals: trapping; farm animaI'Welfare:
laboratory animal care: animal transportation: humane slaughte«
Humane science fair projects for secondary school students.

Grants (include amounts and who monies are made available to)
Small grants ($500 and under) occasionally given in any of the
areas of expertise listed above.

Library (describe if necessary)

Speakers/Consultants (include topics, fees). x

Leon Bernstein, Ph.D., consultant in phySiology

a ' son wildlife consultant
Con fergrfceets ach'JC'grksh'ops

Do you sponsor them? Do you make materials available if they are not sponsored by
you? What are the specific topics covered? '

 

YES -- on topics listed under subjects of expertise.

Toll Free Number or Hotline

 

Return forms to: Twig George
Education Coordinator
CEE '
624 9th St., NW
Washington, D.C. 20001




 

Publications

 

 

 

 

Titles and Price or
Descriptions 3 Subscription Rates
Books ijﬁ'
’v’f v4” 0,)”
9" 45
4‘0
l9“ ‘ng

 

Brochures and Pamphlets

 

Bibliographies

 

Magazines and Newsletters

The Animal Welfare Institute QUARTERLY

$15/year

 




Educational Information

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Titles and ‘ Grade Cost
Descriptions Levels
Educational Packets or Kits
A Whale Demonstration Packet free
School Visits and Speakers
Curriculum
"Endangered Species Handbook: 7-12 $3.00
‘A Guide to the Humane Treatment (one copy free to
end—eonservation—o£4Vanisuirc teachers—a
Fact Sheets L “-3 librarie
Wildlife" .

See “Publications and Films" brochure

 

Booklets
' See"Publications and Films“ brochure

 

Posters and Pictures '
poster one free

”Save the Whales" materials: bumper stiCker . one free
Richard Ellis prints of humpback
Wales £15 each...

 

 

Maps, Charts, Reprints

See ”Publications and Films" brochure

 

-Other

adult sizes: $6.00

"Save the Whales" T-shirts: children sizes: $5.00




 

Audio Visual Materials

 

Titles and Grade Cost and/or
Descriptions Levels Rental Fee

 

 

 

Films The Great Whales
Down ,n the Factory Farm
Canada's Shame See brochure for descriptions and rental fee
Laboratory Dogs
Last Day of the Dolphins?

 

Filmstrips

 

Slides or Slide Shows

 

Tapes, Cassettes, Recordings
“Humpbacks -- The Gentle Whales" $1.50

January, 1979 issue of ”The National Geographic”
in Which a special sound sheet recording. "Songs
of the Humback Whale" with commentary by Roger
Payne, Ph.D. appears.

 

Video Tapes

 

-Other

 




 

 

A J E ELF-f <2

AVAILABLE FROM THE

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007 *-
I

COdQ: B ‘Bmk
® “ Book ()DuElishecQ (x1 Awl
P" ‘meph‘d or Bram

® A600: (Puéhskecﬂ 114.1 MOI
® R€?Fm+

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

f v—vv _»» w- 'r—q '— h 7' ‘. T ‘— s. I Y—m‘ h v ‘- ﬂr‘ _o my :f'\ V. .
. . _ _ ,- f . .

_ i ' I ' 1
_ 1 .’ 2‘. A. ‘s ‘g 5
.2 r. 1...; V1 L l L d ;

a
, .4. , --- g4" 5...‘

.‘~' .,""«. 5,9"
'3'“- 'bu'wuth LL;

3 I“.
" l‘v-EATEREALS on” song;

ﬁ—i

 

1 ? ?»« rs

,t '." Y7“ 'Y‘Y 11"“ v r
v 7“ . r“ 3. _.. ‘1“ .1 5. ‘ I“ ‘ , <
1 i ‘te 2.. L L a ' v A ‘ 5......C.’

CAB—IPAIGN I‘vIATERIALS

Ind!

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE @éAVE THE WHALES ﬂier explaining how you can help . Free

 

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

I wish to become a non-voting [3 $100 to $500 Patron
member of the [1 $25 to $100 Supporter
Animal Welfare Institute: [1 $15 Regular

Cl $5 Student or Senior Citizen

(Subscription to Quarterly Information Report included)

ADDRESS ...........................................
.............................. ZIPCODE
INSTITUTION (if any) ................................

Please send me the items checked for which I enclose $. . . .
Payment Must Accompany Order

Whales vs. Whalers: A Continuing Commentary

Articles published from 1971 to 1981 in the AWI
Information Report on national and international
efforts to prevent extinction of whales ........... $3.00

utlaw Whalers by Greenpeace lntemational

 

1980, 32 pages ............................... $5.00

1981, 24 pages ............................... $5.00
The Great Whales

16 mm, sound, color, 1 hour, National Geographic

Society. One week rental ...................... $10.00

$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Last Day of the Dolphins?
Dick Cavett narrates this film containing footage
obtained after a court fight with tuna interests showing
the tragic killing of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
16mm, color, sound, 27 minutes. One week rental . . $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

‘5 Vanishing Giants '
the history, biology, and fate of the Great Whales. 24

pages ....................................... $2.00
Additional order instructions: ........................... @How to Liven Up Your Classroom with a Pod of Whales.
for teachers, 2 pages ........................... Free

 

Please use the form below for SAVE THE WHALES campaign

orders.

CONTRIBUTION $ ...................................

( Whale of a Friend

an ocean giant and man play together in a historic
happening. 4 pages. Reprint from Toronto Star . . . . Free

Letter from a Whale
by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades. Animal
Welfare lnsitute, 1977, 4 pages .................. Free

Humpbacks—-—The Gentle Whales
January, 1979 issue of “The National Geographic” in
which a special sound sheet recording, “Songs of the
Humpback Whale” with commentary by Roger Payne,
Ph.D. appears ................................ $1.50

Campaign Materials:
How to organize a demonstration to save the whales. . Free

Poster, one free. Extras ...................... 20¢ ea.
Bumper Sticker, one free. Extras .............. 20¢ ea.
T-shirts. Adult small, medium, large or x-large . . . . $6.00

Children’s medium or large .................. $5.00

Six-color print, measuring 20" x 26", from original paintings by
Richard Ellis of a mother Humpback whale and her calf, or of
two majestic cachalot whales. Suitable for framing, one print is
available to anyone donating $15 or more to the Animal Welfare
lnstitute’s SAVE THE WHALES campaign.

,.. ....-._W.~ .. no 4. ..

»........._,,._ "ha—.25....— ....... --.._.... - .w... m...
- ...,_.—- A_.»-_ mw-mm.._-.__,

 




 

 

 

General Interest

Information Report
Animal Welfare Institute quarterly: endangered
species, trapping, farming and laboratory animals
One year subscription ........................ $15.00

(3) Animals and Their Legal Rights
by Emily Leavitt and other aﬁhors. Summary and his-

tory of laws affecting the welfare of animals in the Uni-
ted States. Animal Welfare Institute. Third edition,
1978. 215 pages. One copy free upon request to libra—
ries and humane societies. To others ............

@Animal Expressions

a photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s Expres-
sions of the Emotions in Man and Animals. Foreword
by F.J. Mulhern, D.V.M. 54 pages. 106 illustrations.
Animal Welfare Institute .......................

$4.00

$2 .00

(3) Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer
edited by Ann Cottrell Free. In press. Dr. Schweitzer’s
philosophy of reverence for life through his own

words ....................................... $2.50

9 The Neighbours
anthology of animal poems, illustrated by Fougasse,
117 pages. Published by UFAW ................ $4.00

I) The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
by Major C.W. Hume, M.C., B.Sc., London, illus-
trated by Fougasse. 100 pages. UFAW .......... $4.00

' D na in
9 by Mary Warner. Study on the spread of dognapping. $2.00

@The Schweitzer Medalists

presented annually for an outstanding contribution to
animal welfare, from 1955 to 1981 ................ Free

Q [awards the Ideal in an Animal Shelter ............. Free
Wildiiie
E} First Aid and Care of Small Animals
v by Ernest P. Walker. Designed for use by teachers in
primary and secondary schools. One copy free upon
request to teachers, librarians, humane societies and
scout leaders. To others ....................... $3.00
@lhe Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage
Bird Trade, by Greta Nilsson. Foreword by S. Dillion
Ripley. Animal Welfare Institute, 1981. 121 pages, illus-

trated in black and white and color $5.00

6 Endangered Species Handbook.

In press. One copy free to teachers. To others . . . $3.00

 

gelnternational Trade in Wildlife
by Tim Inskipp and Sue Wells. Published by Earth-

scan. London, 1979. 104 pages. ................. $3.00

8 Rare and Endangered Birds (108 pages) ............ Free

% Endangered, Threatened and Unique Mammals of the
Southern National Forests (121 pages)
Forest Service, US. Department of Agriculture.
One capy of each free on request to teachers.

Mexico: The Turtles are Gathering for Their Nesting
Season Massacre
reprinted from the Bulletin of the International
Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural

Resources Free

The Shame of Escobilla
by Tim Cahill. Reprinted from Outside; 10 pages. An
eyewitness account of the mass killing of sea turtles in

Mexico ....................................... Free

@Federal Measures Against the Abuse of Wild Animals
by Nathaniel Reed, Assistant Secretary, U.S. Depart-
ment of the Interior. Reprint from The American Bio-
logy Teacher, April 1974 ........................ Free

Q Help for Hooked Birds

by Ralph Heath, Jr., Pete Van Allen and Dr. Harold
Albers, pamphlet, 1981 ......................... Free

' "I ‘

‘0 '3- ’ ~14 («‘95 H ‘M'
1‘. i c; U? .2121 a»?
A; L d

 

( lFacts About Furs
by Greta Nilsson and other authors. Revised edition,
Animal Welfare Institute, 1980. 257 pages of infor-
mation on the way furs are obtained throughout the
world. 79 illustrations; 18 appendices. One copy free
to humane societies and libraries. To others

(: )Let u§ Live
leaﬂet on trapping, illustrated in full color ......... Free

Canada’s Shame
film produced by the Association for the Protection of
Fur-Bearing Animals showing the exteme suffering
undergone by animals caught in leghold traps, 16 mm,
color, sound, 15 minutes. One week rental ...... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

$4.00

Factory Farming

Down on the Factory Farm
film produced by the BBC which examines the strict confine-
ment housing of farm animals, the resulting behavioral
problems and alternative housing systems; 16mm, color,
sound, 50 minutes. One week rental ........... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

 




 

for primary grades

Good Kind Lie 1
Illustrated by Fougasse, for primary grades. 4 pages,
UFAW. One copy ............................. Free
Additional copies .......................... 20¢ each

Kittens and Cats
for primary grades. 12 pages, with pictures suitable for
coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy
free on request to teachers, librarians, humane socie-
ties. To others & additional copies ................ 20¢

Yet}. @139X991293
‘ for primary grades. 16 pages, with pictures suitable for
coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy
free upon request to teachers, librarians, humane so-
cieties. To others & additional copies ............. 20¢

   
    
  

’: friending Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Child-
hood Education. For primary grades, 4 pages ..... Free

for secondary grades

Regulations for Animal Experimentation in Science Fairs
new humane rules for Canadian Science Fairs, 1975 Free

,‘etter Nutrition Studies
by Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint from The American
Biology Teacher, 3 pages, November 1970 ........ Free

ive Organisms in High School Biology
by Barbara F. Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from
The American Biology Teacher, 4 pages, September

1972 ......................................... Free

la‘ ttitudes Towards Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The

American Biology Teacher, 3 pages, February 1970 Free

! anctified Torture
by John Hillaby. Reprint of article from New Scientist,

1 page, January 1969 ........................... Free

,Biology Students as Experimental Subjects
by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from
The American Biology Teacher, October 1974 . Free

lStatement on Animals in Secondary Schools

by Dr. W.W. Armistead, Vice President for Agri-
culture, Institute for Agriculture, University of
Tennessee, 1 page ............................. Free

NOTE: Teachers please indicate grade level.

We regret that only reprints and leaflets can be provided free
7 student teachers. Orders for manuals should be accompan-

wd by payment. (Order blank on reverse side)

 

 

.,- . 3..., .1. ~ 7‘- ““5

.. ’ g i . .
. ' . . I
, , . _ K .
A.- J-w I'— _ l , I z» b
N“ p -_. 4.. a ‘ a. — \ ah L

a“ .5 .v. .4“. v a.— r- A A .‘r

 

Laboratory Dogs
16 mm. sound film showing humane care and housing
of dogs in an experimental surgery laboratory. Pro-
duced by Crawley Films. One week rental ...... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

ﬂchomfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals

L/ illustrated manual designed for those planning to
build, remodel or re-equip animal quarters. Animal
Welfare Institute. Revised edition, 1979. 108 pages,
165 illustrations. One copy free on request to scientific

institutions, veterinarians, or architects. To others $3.00

oduIar Kennels for Laboratory Animals
by William Hoffer. Reprint from College Management,
2 pages, May 1973 ............................. Free

% The Principles of HUmane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell & R.L. Burch, 238 pages ...... $5.00

b Ahematives to Pain in Experiments on Animals
by Dallas Pratt, M.D., Argus Archives, 1980, 283

pages

@nimal Expressions

a photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s Expres-
sion of the Emotions in Man and Animals. Foreword
by F.J. Mulhern, D.V.M. 54 pages. 106 illustrations.
Animal Welfare Institute. Free on request to veterinar-
ians and persons employed by research institutions in
the management and care of animals.

$4.95

Cs) Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals
A Review of Scientific Literature from 1975-1978 by
Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D.

Animal Welfare Institute. 1979. 195 pages ........ $4.00

I Q» yond Adequate Veterinary Care ,
address at American Veterinary Medical Association
Convention, 1975, by Dr. Majorie Anchel ......... Free

umane Consideration for Animal Models

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal
Models of Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases.
National Academy of Sciences, 1976, 8 pages ..... Free

umane Perspectives

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Fu-

ture of Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Re-
search, Development, Education and Testing. Nation-

al Academy of Sciences, 1977. 9 pages ........... Free

Cuidado Basico de los Animales Experimentales,
®f fourth edition in Spanish, written simply, designed for
animal room personnel, 78 pages. Illustrated. Free
upon request only to persons employed in scientific
institutions.

 




  

linirgigiireriste ﬂaunts!

POUGHl’EEPSlE, N Y
D 51120111 31111 §2150 ‘ -

ocr 41981 W

 

 

 

 

 

THEIR
YOURSELF

a» Send the question. on a ”steam, to "Ask." Family Weekly, 641. Lexington Ave. New York N Y 10022
We'll pay $5 for published QUCSllOi’iS Sorry: we can't answer others

 

FOR VALERY A PORTNOI, MD"
director, Division of Geriatric Medicine,
George Washington Medical Center

Do you feel that retirement is deu‘imen-
tal to elderly persons? -E.W., Berkley,
Mass. '

C No. A vast majority of retirees do

, enjoy being free from the discipline of

work and pursue many positive chal~

,, - lenging and leisurely tasks of late life.

But, it is true, sudden changes are

_. ‘1 harmful. Thus if 'an active person sud-

denly becomes passive and nonpro-

Retirement: boon or bust? ductive, it jeopardizes his well-being. I

believe in the need for one to take

time to plan financial, psychological and social aspects of the future carefully.

Planning includes revitalizing all interests and talents and acquiring new hob«

bies and skills. Planning requires getting closer to one’s family. Retirement is
detrimental only. if it is forced upon the person who is not prepared.

 

FROM THE “ASK” EDITOR

Once more in the headlines via the '
ruling that actor Lee Marvin does not
have to pay her $104,000 in pali-
mony. Michelle Triola Marvin look-
ed back on the sensational, lurid trial
and pinpointed this moment as the
most agonizing of the entire trial:
“When Lee Marvin looked me straight y
in the ‘eye from the witness stand and ”
said. ‘of course I said I loved her - ,
but I did not mean it.” She claims her
attorney, Marvin M. Mitchelson, ‘1": . a. . -
was so taken aback by that callous No palimony; not even dollymony.

- statement, that later that day he got -

~ out the pile of Marvin’s love letters and read to her Lee’s words that professed
his love. Michelle, now in public relations on the West Coast, declares that the
trial had a beneficial effect on her present work: “it allova me to call the media
and not be told the person I want is out. In short, my name is known.”

Wide worm“

 

 

FOR FATHER ANDREW M. GREELEY, author of
The Cardinal Sins

How do you know so much about sex? —- C.A.W.,

.. Coulterville, Ill.

. Priests don’t give up marriage because they’re sex-
less. They have hormones and fantasies like all other
healthy members of the human race. They fall in love
like everyone else. They live the lives they do because
there is more joy in the special commitment to the
priesthood and to humanity. That’s why we do it.

 

FOR EILEEN FORD, head of Ford Models Inc.

Are blondes or brunettes more in demand, and do clients
stipulate whether they want light or dark-haired models?
-- S.N., Savannah, Ga.

0 For the past few years, blondes have certainly been
more in demand for women but, suddenly, brunettes
with light eyes are the rage. The same is true for male
models. Clients may stipulate light or dark, but our
bookings are mostly by the model. Clients know what
color hair the model has.

 

FOR DANA HILL, star of TV’s The Two of Us

What are the advantages and disadvantages of a 17-year-
old actress who looks like she’s 12?— S. F. Tyler, Texas
0 My age helps me get roles For instance the pro-
ducer of the series felt that at 17, I could give greater
depth to the role of a 12 —-year old. At 18, next year, I
will no longer be subject to child-labor laws —— another
big plus for producers. But there are social disadvan- .
tages. At first, people regard me as of’the age of my
appearance and talk down to me. That is bothersome. ‘

 

 

FOR ROBERT MERRILL, Metropolitan Opera baritone

What has been themost hair-raising experience of your
long career? - L.P.,Las Vegas, Nev. .
C The first time I sang La Traviata, in 1945 (my debut
year), conducted by Arturo Toscanini. He terrified me ‘
from the first moment. He demanded perfection and
inspired awe. Anyway, just before I went onstage, he
told me, “Don’t sing too loud.” I went into shock.
What he meant was to be careful with my phrasing
and not to bellow. Now I know; then I didn’t.

{ﬁr

his Brad Majors character in Shock Treatment after

"'When Rex Harrison wowed ‘em-in My Fair Lady 25

 

 

FROM THE “ASK" EDITOR

Dudley Moore, star of the movie Arthur, was asked what
he’d do if called upon to strip in his next film. The 51-foot

part was right -— or if all my parts looked right”. . .Mikhail
Baryshnikov was lured to make his first public-service an-
nouncement (a spot for Save the Whales) by Christine
Stevens, president of them

, 5? WScreen actor
Cliff De me says he modeled

“”clean-cut David Eisenhower” .Al Pacino’ s latest gal 15
Marcia Strassman (soon to be seen in Soup for One) ..
Mia Farrow is still Woody Allen’s current heartthrob. ..

years ago, he wasn’t relaxed; he was jumping all around
the theater and was constantly exhausted. Now 73, and ' a: ‘ '

back in the show’ 5 revival, Rex '5 far from the man he was then —— he finds the
rele less taxing. To what does he owe this miracle? His wife, Mercia, who taught
him to pace himself and become more organized

 

7 2-inch actor reflected and said, “Well, I’d consider itifthe l'

 

 

 

PRO Assemblyman Robert W. Naylor (R.-Calif.) PRO “"0 (on CON Alan Dershowitz, professor of law, Harvard

ShOUId the Plea of Insanity University-

have extended the concept of m-

viously would have been held re-
. sponsible for their criminal con-
duct. The new standards are
murky and lead to psychiatric Cir-
cuses to determine whether an “ir-

resistible criminal impulse” was
present Let’s insist that crime deserves punishment,
not psychoanalysis Too often guilt or innocence
seems almost irrelevant in criminal trials, as judges,
defendants and lawyers devise ingenious ways for

 

. n “ . ” A ' i i r . a c
criminals to get away With murder. 5m ”mm 0:11am: Wame ” I m ,0 m & Cm F‘mymw basrs for punishment.
641 Lexington Ave New York N Y. 1002231116933) 510 for those waisted

Recent California court decisions . . j . ‘ - -
‘ In Criminal cases times to the present, has recog-
' sanity to include persons who prev Be Severely Resmcted? nized that the insane cannot justly -

 

Every legal system from biblical

be punished for what they cannot 7
help doing. The insanity defense
prises no realistic danger, since few
defendants successfully raise it, "
and they get sent to mental hospi-
tals. Why then is it important? It is ' >
because by exempting a very few from responsibility
for their insane actions, the insanity defense empha
sizes that the rest of us are responsible for our ac-
tions. We should not tinker with this ancient moral

 

 

 

 

Q 1981 FAMlLY WEEKLY. All rights reserved.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

’5‘; _ ' September 24, 1981

, .”> 260 Bleecker St.
2 1 New York, N. Y. 10014
g“ (212) 255-4118

Hello:

Thank you for responding to my letter, afew weeks back,
requesting capies of (and information about) your publication.
I explained that I was writing a book about newsletters
journals and "small" magazines. The book will be published

by Dembner Books (W. W. Norton) next Hay.

I also indicated that a large part of the book would be made
up of excerpts from THE BEST OF these publications. I guess
congratulations are in order-~LLQLlikemtamusehswmetthg..
from your publication in the book!_ On the following page
I've listed the item or items I would like to reprint

Many editors/publishers have already given permission to
reprint. If you haven't done that, would you please indicate
that I have permission to use the Specific items I've listed?
You can do so on the following page, or in a separate note.

As I mentioned in the first letter, the only payment will

be good publicity!

In the book your publication will be listed as the source
immediately following the item. Readers can then turn to

a directory in the back of the book where they will find
your publication's name and address and a swell description
of it. I'm also writing in-depth profiles/reviews of 20

of the most interesting publications.

on the following page, you may also find a request for a
photograph of illustration that could run with the item.

I would appreciate any help you could provide but it's not
required. However, the permission to reprint is absolutely
necessary. I HUST’receive your okay by October 19.

If you cannot grant permission-~b scenes the author of the piece
disapproves or owns the rights himself-~please let me know,
along with a way to contact the author myself. Ditto for artwork.

I hone all of this isn't too much to read through or reSpond to.
But I think, when the book comes out, you'll find that it was
well worth the effort. It's the first real in-depth look at
this field--and a genuine celebration of individual(s)
achievement!

Best wishes,

.Q’q ,
./":‘\;;/~ 0 2/74

Greg Mitchell

 




 

ANI;.,AL 4L LEAR}; 1355 T1 TEST;

Cutting Highway Deaths -- V01. 29 #1 P. 4

Cociane a Polar Bears -- V01. 29 #2 P. 4

9 October 1981

Dear Mr. Mitchell,

You have our permission to use these two articles
in your book on newsletters.

Cynthia Stokes
Publications Secretary

 




 

 

 

INFORMATION REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D.C. 20007

January-February-March 1980

Vol. 29, No. l

 

WILL OUR COUNTRY ACCEPT ITS
DOLPHIN PROTECTION '
RESPONSIBILITIES?

“The hunting of Dolphins is immoral and that man can no
more draw nigh the gods as a welcome sacrificer nor touch their
altars with clean hands but pollutes those who share the same
roof with him, whoso willingly devises destruction for Dolphins.
For equally with human slaughter, the gods abhor the deathly
doom of the monarchs of the deep . . . ” Oppian

If we accept the wisdom of the Ancients as expressed by Op-
pian, immorality is rife in the United States and Japan.

The government of Nagasaki even provided a “Dolphin
Processor” to Iki Island to chop up the dolphins deliberately
captured and slaughtered on their migratory path in late Febru-
ary and early March.

The US. government has scheduled hearings before an ad-
ministrative law judge to examine the findings of the scientific
workshop which determined that offshore spotted dolphins, the
species most often set upon by tuna purse seine fishermen, are
depleted. Under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, depleted
species may not be taken. The tuna industry is preparing to
argue the case strongly. ‘

The only way a final solution can be reached is to use a dif-
ferent method for locating and setting the seines on schools of

tuna. The best hope lies with fish aggregatingdemces. Thes.e_--,_,_

have been successfully used in Hawaiian waters and are now
the subject of a proposal for a statewide fish aggregation
system, according to the National Marine Fisheries Service.
They have already brought about a substantial reduction in
scouting time and pursuit of tuna schools because the fish tend
to stay round the anchored rafts from which forty foot pieces of
net hang free in the water. It is a remarkable fact that fish and
other marine organisms are attracted to such foreign objects. It
has been reported that even an old rain coat floating on the sur-
face has attracted fish; oil drums have been set out successfully
to aggregate them and floating trunks of dead palm trees are
well known to fishermen who have used them for “log fishing”
for many years.

A proposal to research both aggregating devices and
methods of locating schools of tuna fish not associated with
dolphins, has been prepared by Frank Awbrey and William
Evans, scientists from the University of San Diego and Hubbs-
Sea World respectively. This carefully prepared work should be
implemented immediately by industry and government to elim-
inate the pursuit of dolphin herds and setting of the giant purse
seines around them.

The purse seine fishery is now known to all the dolphin herds
in the Eastern tropical Pacific, and as soon as they perceive a
seiner, the whole dolphin school starts to “run”, swimming and
leaping at top speed. The speedboats deployed by the big $5-
million purse seiners must now be equipped with extra fuel
tanks for their ruthless pursuit of the dolphins. The chases
which used to last one to two hours now are extended to three
or four hours before the exhausted dolphins are able to “run”
no more, and they are encircled in the seines. Such prolonged
chases cannot be sustained by the old, the weak, or diseased,
the very young or the pregnant dolphins. Death from exhaus-
tion is likely to follow such persistent pursuit, thus, causing more
damage to populations that are either depleted or likely to
become so.

The cruelty of the chase has enormously intensified as the
dolphins have learned that they must do their very best to avoid
tuna seiners. At the same time, the cost of the chase in fuel and
time spent continues to rise. Thus, selfish and altruistic motives
combine to demand the discovery of a tuna fishing method
which does not depend on dolphins.

Compliance with federal law, the Marine Mammal Protection
Act, likewise calls for a goal approaching zero mortality and
serious injury rate.

The Act’s definition of “taking” includes harassment of mar-
ing mammals. The harassment meted-out by the multimillion
(Continued on page 2)

Press Wire Photo

 

Associ

Dolphin processor at Iki Island, Japan. Body of dolphin
is being dropped into the shredder for use as fertilizer.
Fishermen call the migratory dolphins “gangsters of the
sea.” Dead dolphins in foreground.

THE KELLERT REPORT

The extent to which the general public is willing to put wild
animals ahead of purely economic considerations has susprised
many cynics when they read phase I of a Yale School of For-
estry and Environmental Studies survey: “Public Attitudes
Toward Critical Wildlife and Natural Habitat Issues.” The study,
funded by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, was con-
ducted in a highly professional and extremely thorough manner
showing close correlation with the US. census with regard to
age, sex, race, and occupation.

The 138-page study covers a broad area. Some of the ques-
tions of particular interest to readers of the Information Report
include views on endangered species, predator control, use of
the steel jaw leghold trap, and poisons.

When asked which of a list of endangered species they would
be willing to protect even if it resulted in higher costs for an
energy development project, 89% favored protection for the
bald eagle, 73% for the mountain lion, 71% for the Agassiz
trout, 70% for the American crocodile and 64% for the Silver-
spot butterfly.

When asked whether they would approve poisoning of coy-
otes because it is the least expensive solution even though
other animals besides coyotes may be killed, 92% of the
general public disapproved. However, when sheep producers
were asked the same question 75% approved.

The general public and the sheepmen were also diametrically
opposed though not to quite such an extreme degree, on the
question as to whether cattle and sheep grazing should be lim-
ited on publicly owned lands if it destroys plants needed by
wildlife even though this may result in higher meat costs. Sixty
percent of the general public agreed, and 59% of the sheep-
men disagreed.

The public expressed its willingness to pay higher prices for
tuna fish if this resulted in fishermen killing fewer porpoises in
their nets. Sixty-nine percent were prepared to make a financial
sacrifice to protect dolphins.

With regard to the steel jaw leghold trap the study shows

 

78% of the general public oppose use of the steel jaw leghold

trap to capture wild animals.

 




 

 

DOLPHINS Continued

dollar U.S. tuna fleet is far more severe than any other marine
mammal receives at the hands of American citizens, and it in-
volves tens of thousands of dolphins chased, set upon, and
released when the tuna seiner backs down to let the dolphins
out of the nets before the tuna are hauled on board.

The tuna industry, after four separate lawsuits were won by
environmental and humane groups, reduced the numbers of
dolphins killed and injured before release from the seines, but
they have not reduced the number chased and held in the nets
prior to release.

The issue now is the chase, the suffering and death it inflicts,
and the need to end dependency on the dolphin herds to locate
yellow fin tuna.

If the Awbrey-Evans proposal is promptly funded and im-
plemented, and if it leads to development of efficient fishing
methods without harassment of dolphins, it will solve the US.
tuna fleet’s problems and carry over to seiners of other nations.
This is important, for though the seiners are still preponderantly
American, they have become popular with other countries too.

Venezuela, the Congo, New Zealand, Senegal, and Spain
have informed their vessel operators that they must fish in ac-
cordance with US. law and follow dolphin release procedures
required of US. operators (San Diego Law Review, April,
1979). Senegal volunteered to be bound by US. quotas and to
cease setting on any species for which the quotas have been
reached. 7 _ .

Under the heading of “The Responsibility of the United
States in International Programs,” (lbid.), Laurel Lee Hyde
writes, “In addition to the moratorium on imported yellowfin
under the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA), the United
States could ban the importation of all tunafish products from
any State whose nationals fish in a manner that diminishes the
effectiveness of an international fishery conservation program
under the Pelly amendment. The amendment’s broad defini-
tion of international fishery agreements includes international
programs for cetacean conservation. Thus, the United States
may ban not only all yellowfin imports but all other fish -product
imports as well from any State that frustrates the purpose of an
international program to protect the dolphin and to reduce their
incidental kill in tuna industry. The invocation of these trade
sanctions does not demand that a species or stock be in danger
of extinction or that a treaty be violated. The offending party
need not even be a party to the conservation program it is
hindering. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion (NOAA) has used the Pelly amendment to encourage
non-International Whaling Commission (IWC) States to join the
IWC or at least to comply with IWC Yegulations. It could aCfive—
ly be used in connection with the Inter-American Tropical Tuna
Commission’s (IATTC) attempts to internationalize dolphin
protection if the United States decides to accept fully the
responsibilities imposed by the MMPA.”

SAVING SEA TURTLES

A world Conference on Sea Turtle Conservation was held in
the US. Department of State November 26-30 and attracted
turtle scientists, representatives of turtle products industries,
government officials, and environmentalists. At the conclusion
of the 4-day meeting, a turtle conservation policy was unani-
mously adopted; and the International Union for the Conserva-
tion of Nature was put in charge of implementing it.

The conservation strategy was prepared by Dr. David Ehren-
feld, a turtle scientist of broad interests who holds an MD.
Degree from Harvard University and wrote The Arrogance of
Humanism (Oxford University Press, 1978). Emphasizing that
the goal is the ending of international trade in all sea turtle
products, the strategy singles out four of the most immediate
priorities: (1) the leather trade, a new industry which constitutes
an intolerable drain on the sea turtle populations, especially L.
olivacea (Olive Ridley); (2) trade in stuffed baby sea turtles; (3)
eggs collected for sale in distant markets; and (4) trade in tor-
toiseshell.

The incidental catch of sea turtles is described as a major
threat to many sea turtle populations. “All countries,” the strat-
egy states, “should be prepared to establish restricted fishing
zones in areas of high turtle concentration . . .The development
of trawls that exclude sea turtles should be given high priority.”

Other matters covered in the conservation strategy include
Habitat Destruction and Pollution, Conservation Education,
Regulations, Laws and Treaties, and Enforcement.

SCIENCE FAIR MONITORING
KIT OFFERED

Inhumane biology projects involving animals conducted by
young students for science fairs have been a constant problem
for many years. For instance, a recent prize-winning high school
student project at the International Science and Engineering
Fair involved cutting off the legs and tails of a lizard to demon-
strate the well-known fact that tails regrow and legs don’t.

If you would like to actively participate in a campaign to
reduce the incidence of such improper student projects, the
Scientists Center for Animal Welfare has a “Science Fair Moni-
toring Kit” which explains what you can do. For copies of the
kit, write to the Scientists Center for Animal Welfare, PO. Box
3755, Washington DC. 20007.

CEQ DOCUMENTS ORV’s DEADLY HAVOC

Motorcycles, dune buggies, snowmobiles and other off-road
vehicles (ORV’s) are causing irreversible damage to public
lands and disrupting the activities of wildlife, domestic animals,
and human hikers, campers, and skiers who use the land. Mil-
lions of people roar through woods, fields, dunes and deserts
on ORV’s with little restriction, despite executive order 1 1989’s
unequivocal statement; “the respective agency head shall,
whenever he determines that the use of off-road vehicles will
cause or is causing considerable adverse effects on the soil,
vegetation, wildlife, wildlife habitat or cultural or historic
resources of particular areas or trails of the public lands, im-
mediately close such areas or trails to the type of off-road vehi-
cle causing such effects, until such time as he determines that
such adverse effects have been eliminated and that measures
have been implemented to prevent future recurrence.”

The Council on Environmental Quality has recently pub-
lished an 84-page report on the ORV problem, Off-Road Vehi-
cles on Public Land. Under Environmental Costs the report
states, “It is because ORV’s attack that relatively thin layer of
disintegrated rock and organic material to which all earthly life

clings—soil—that they can have such a devastatingeffectgon

natural resources . . . and what happens when ORV’s strip away
the entire soil mantle, leaving exposed bedrock, as they have
done in numerous spots in California? Then recovery will take
millennia . . . They collide with animals, especially smaller mam-
mals and reptiles. By destroying vegetation, they are also
destroying animal food and shelter. In addition, ORV’s afford
hunters and fishermen access to remote, heretofore untouched
areas, thereby dramatically increasing the fish and game kills in
those areas.”

Under “The Impact of Snowmobiles” we find, “Jack Hope
reports: ‘At 80-acre Pierz Lake in Minnesota, where summer
canoeists were once rewarded for their six-hour paddle with a
catch of a two-pound trout, a troop of 120 snowmobiles virtual-
ly cleaned out the lake in a single winter’s day, packing out 556
pounds of fish.’ ”

As for birds, the report notes, “In Anderson Valley, an undis-
turbed area had twice the bird biomass and number of species
and 1.5 times the number of birds as a similar area of ‘mod-
erate’ ORV use.”

This publication is recommended to all who care for wildlife.
It is available from The Assistant Public Printer, Government
Printing Office, Washington, DC. 20402, for $2.40.

VIEWS OF A NOBEL LAUREATE

ONE EACTOMRMINGLW..- .. .,-

George Wald, Professor of Biology Emeritus, Harvard Uni-
versity, Nobel Laureate in Physiology or Medicine, 1967, has
written AWI giving his permission to publish his opinion on the
extreme confinement and other deprivations suffered by live-
stock and poultry on factory farms.

Professor Wald states: “Never before in human history have
the animals that bring meat to the table been subjected to such
cruelties as in present factory procedures. Always heretofore
animals raised for meat have lived some degree of normal ani-
mal lives up to the dreadful day of slaughter. But a few years
ago the realization began to be exploited that an animal allowed
to move thereby grows and fattens more slowly. Hence, every-
thing now is done to see to it that animals move as little as
possible during their entire lives. Either they are fastened in
stanchions, or boxed in narrow stalls, or packed in pens or feed-
lots so that they can hardly move. Chickens are so crowded
throughout their lives as to be unable to move about. That irri-
tates them so that they try to peck one another; but that would
spoil their skins. So they are de-beaked; and if allowed to live
long enough, may be de-beaked again. In part, to reject such
brutalities my family has gone semi—vegetarian. We permit our-
selves fish and invertebrates—clams, mussels, shrimp, scallops:
animals that live free until taken. But we find it neither hard nor
unhealthful to do without meat altogether.”

 

PROGRESS TOWARD REPLACING TEE
STEEL JAW LEGHOLD TRAP

Tests show that the leg snare trap, developed by the Ontario
Ministry of Natural Resources, is capable of bringing about a
major reduction in serious injuries to captured animals.

In a letter to New York Assemblywoman Florence Sullivan,
sponsor of a bill to restrict the steel jaw leghold trap, Mr. L. H.
Eckel, Executive Coordinator of Outdoor Recreation for the
province of Ontario wrote, “We extensively field tested this new
trap in 1978 and compared it to the leghold trap. The capture
rates for the live-trap and leghold traps were identical at 71 per-
cent each. The live-trap captured fewer skunks as compared to
the leghold trap, 28 vs. 96 percent. Six percent of the captured
animals escaped from the live-trap and 7 percent from the leg—
holds. None of the animals captured in the live-trap were seri-
ously injured (cuts, chewed feet, broken bones, etc.) whereas 43
percent of the animals caught in the legholds were. Eighty-
seven percent of the animals captured in the live-trap were
caught above the pads as compared to 34 percent captured in
the leghold. The live-traps were set a total of 1457 trap-nights
and the legholds a total of 746 trap-nights. A total of 190

 




 

animals discharged the live-traps and 74 animals discharged the
legholds.

The Ontario government is seeking a patent so the new trap
can be manufactured and marketed.

NATIONAL ADVISORY EYE
COUNCIL POLICY STATEMENT

Procedures to Assure Freedom from Pain in
Experiments upon Cold-Blooded Vertebrates
Adopted October 25, 1979

Issue

The new policy (“Responsibility for Care and Use of Ani-
mals”) on humane care and use of vertebrate animals under
NIH-supported grants, contracts, and other awards, appeared in
the November 10, 1978 issue of the NIH Guide for Grants and
Contracts. At recent meetings of the National Advisory Eye
Council, this policy was discussed in terms of providing ade-
quate guidance on humane care and use of cold-blooded lower
vertebrates, which are used extensively for vision research.

Background

It was agreed in these discussions that the new policy state-
ment on “Responsibility for Care and Use of Animals” provides
essential guidance to research scientists, institutional and peer
review groups, NIH program staff, and the NIH Office for the
Protection from Research Risks, on the humane care and use of
vertebrate animals under NIH awards. This guidance probably
suffices for most purposes, since there is a long history of atten-
tion by biological scientists to the conditions which assure that
experimental work is conducted under pain-free conditions,
especially in mammals. However, the new policy statement
provides no guidance on the special problems involved in the
humane care and use of cold-blooded lower vertebrates, which
appear in‘ particular need of further consideration.

Since it has sometimes been assumed that cold-blooded ver-
tebrates do not experience pain, this question needs to be
addressed. Being an important adaptive survival mechanism,
pain is probably a primitive mechanism that appeared early in
evolution. Also, the continuity of vertebrate evolution makes it
extremely unlikely that pain first appeared in mammals. It is
likewise relevant that functional continuity among vertebrates is
commonly assumed in using cold-blooded vertebrates to obtain
results that may be applied to mammals, and especially to
humans. Since this assumption is demonstrably reasonable for
many of the research problems that prompt the"us‘e of cold-
blooded vertebrates, it would seem unreasonable to assume at
the same time that cold-blooded vertebrates do not feel pain.
This is a subject upon which proof is lacking, and definitive evi-
dence cannot be foreseen in the near future. But even a cursory
review reveals strong reasons for believing that cold-blooded
vertebrates do experience pain. Hence prudence requires that
these animals receive at least the same consideration as mam-
mals, if undue suffering is to be prevented.

In fact, if cold-blooded vertebrates experience pain, it is par-
ticularly important to strive for pain-free conditions during ex-
periments upon them. This is partly because cold-blooded ver-
tebrates are often used in research to avoid undesirable effects
of the anesthetics that are required in mammalian work. Also,
the nervous systems of cold-blooded vertebrates continue to
function for long periods after procedures that would quickly
kill mammalian nerve cells. This is another reason why cold-
blooded vertebrates are used so extensively in research. But
prolonged survival also means, for example, that if a frog or tur-
tle is decapitated, the decapitated head may be capable of ex-
periencing pain for several hours. In short, one of the main
reasons for using cold-blooded vertebrates can also place these
animals at particular risk of suffering. Since these animals pro-
vide us with much useful information, and have no choice in
this matter, there is a clear responsibility to prevent such suffer-
mg.

It is believed that these background considerations are
already familiar to, and accepted by, most persons who are con-
cerned with humane experimentation upon cold-blooded ver-
tebrates. But it is also believed important to clarify the policy of
the National Advisory Eye Council on these points.

Recommendation

Since a great deal of vision research is conducted upon cold-
blooded lower vertebrates, the National Advisory Eye Council
believes that, for research supported by the NEI, effective and
uniform procedures should be adopted to minimize pain in
these animals. In many cases this can be done very easily with
no compromise to the advantages of working with cold-blood-
ed vertebrates. For much research in vision, the first step is
decapitation. Following decapitation, unless the experiment re-
quires an intact brain, the National Advisory Eye Council rec-
ommends that the brain be destroyed immediately by pithing
through the spinal cord. This procedure is already done in
many laboratories, and should be done consistently, regardless

of whether any further operative work is performed upon the
head.

 

REGULATIONS FOR 1978 HUMANE
SLAUGHTER ACT INCLUDE
PRE-SLAUGHTER HANDLING

The 1978 amendments to the Federal Humane Slaughter
Act of 1958 are at last in force. Final regulations published in
the November 30, 1979 Federal Register were summarized in a
bulletin issued January 29, 1980 for the US. Department of
Agriculture’s regional directors and supervisors and distributed
to all involved.

The major changes in the law are 1) Coverage of all animals
in federally inspected plants 2) coverage from the time they
arrive at the plant with regard to handling and care 3) powerful
incentive to packers to treat animals humanely because of
potential large monetary losses when federal inspection is sus-
pended (no slaughter allowed) because of inhumane practices
and 4) requirement that imported meat be from humanely
slaughtered animals.

A few quotations from the USDA. bulletin follow:

“The Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1978 makes
humane slaughtering and handling mandatory for all cattle,
sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules, and other equines slaugh-
tered under inspection at federally inspected plants . . . The
humane stunning and slaughtering provisions contained in Part
390 are now mandatory for all livestock, except those being
slaughtered ritually, under the Humane Methods of Slaughter
Act of 1978 . . . Handling Requirements. The animals shall be
handled humanely in the livestock pens and while being driven
to and from the pens. Driving of livestock shall be accomplished
with a minimum of excitement and discomfort to the animals.
With respect to permitted driving implements, determination of
the humaneness of a driving implement lies as much in the way
it is used as in the implement itself. However, metal pipes and
sharp pointed objects shall not be permitted. Electric prods, can-
vas slappers, or other implements used to drive animals shall be
employed as little as possible to minimize excitement and injury
to the livestock being driven. All livestock shall have access to
water. Feed shall be supplied if livestock are to be held more
than 24 hours before being slaughtered. There shall be suffi-
cient room in the pens for animals held overnight to lie down.
Electronic prods which are connected to AC house current shall
be reduced by a transformer to the lowest effective voltage not
to exceed 50 volts AC. There is some evidence that voltages as
low as 20 volts AC are effective.

“Downer animals shall not be dragged. In some instances,
immediate slaughter may be the most humane thing to do, in
which case the animal shall be given ante-mortem inspection
and then stunnedbefgre moving it. __ 7 7 7 ,- -__.,_.

“Pens, driveways, and ramps shall be kept in good repair to
prevent injury to the livestock. Sharp objects, loose, splintered,
or broken boards and other pain producing objects shall be
eliminated or repaired. Pen floors and alleyways shall be slip
resistant. Sand may be used to provide livestock with a more
secure footing, especially during winter months . . .

“Whenever a violation of the Humane Methods of Slaughter
Act occurs and operations are stopped, the inspector in charge
shall notify plant management of the reasons for taking action.
If the situation is corrected and the problem resolved at the es-
tablishment level, operations may resume. Report the incident
to the Area Supervisor. If the matter cannot be resolved at the
establishment level, refer plant management to the next level of
supervision.”

Commenting in The Federal Register on complaints from in-
dustry about the loss of funds which a plant could suffer when
operations are suspended under the law, U.S.D.A.’s Adminis-
trator of Food, Safety, and Quality Service stated: “The prin-
cipal purpose of the Act is to deter and prevent inhumane treat-
ment, not to punish for violations. Furthermore, the temporary
suspension of inspection for inhumane handling or slaughter
would be done in the same manner as the temporary suspen-
sion of inspection because of sanitation deficiencies. The use of
the US. Rejected’ tag would similarly have the same function
and meaning as when used on insanitary equipment. It may be
removed by the inspector in charge when the cause is corrected
or satisfactory assurances are given.”

ICLA RECOMMENDS AVOIDANCE OF
DUPLICATION OF TOXICITY TESTS FROM
ONE COUNTRY TO ANOTHER

At the January 1979 meeting of the Governing Board of the
International Committee on Laboratory Animals a resolution
was passed expressing support for animal experimentation
while drawing attention to means whereby significant reduc-
tions in the numbers of animals used have been or could be
achieved.

According to the Canadian Association for Laboratory Ani-
mal Science Newsletter (vol. 11, No. 5, Oct., 1979), “Lab-
oratory animal technology, which has done much to advance
the health of experimental animals particularly when allied to
statistical analysis, also has led to significant reductions in the
number of animals used.

“A further considerable reduction in the numbers of animals
used would follow if national regulatory authorities could be
persuaded to revise the number of animals used in toxicity test-
ing and avoid duplications from one country to another.”

 




 

1
j

TECHNOLOGICAL BREAKTHROUGH IN I/
PREVENTING WILDLIFE DEATHS BY
AUTOMOBILES

The Austrian Academy of Science has confirmed the highly
successful results of an investigation by the Institute of Com-
parative Behavior on reduction of road accidents involving
animals. Animal behavior theory was put into practice by a
company that manufactures optical devices. Reflectors were
devised for placement 10 or 20 yards apart, giving the appear-
ance of reflected, red eyes glowing in the dark. Thus, animals’
natural inborn fear of predators is translated, in behavioral
terms, to the fear they need to feel of an oncoming motor vehi-
cle if collisions are to be avoided. Automobiles have been dead-
ly to wildlife because there has been no way to inform animals
of the dangerous speed and power of a phenomenon which
has had no place in the evolution of any species. The eyes of
predators, on the other hand, are instantly recognized as signal-
ling danger. It is a universal language.

Because the car headlights strike a number of the reflectors,
many “eyes” flare up instantly, thus producing an “optical
fence”. The result has been a decrease of 80% of collisions with
animals after dark in Austrian roads equipped with these reflec-
tors.

“Swareflex” wildlife reflectors are available in the United
States from the Strieter Corporation, 2100 Eighteenth Avenue,
Rock Island, Ill. 61201. The Company describes the effect of
the reflectors thus: “The headlights of approaching vehicles
strike the wildlife reflectors which are installed on both sides of
the road. Unnoticeable to the driver, these reflect red lights into
the adjoining terrain and an optical warning fence is produced.
Any approaching wildlife is alerted and stops or returns to the
safety of the countryside. Immediately after the vehicle has
passed, the reflectors become inactive, thereby permitting the
animals to cross safely.”

It is noted that thousands of miles of European roads where
deer frequently cross have been made safe with these reflec-
tors. In Austria alone, 300,000 reflectors have been installed.
Furthermore, unlike fixed fences which interrupt the accus-
tomed paths of wildlife, the optical warning fence is activated
only when a vehicle approaches.

Although the driver does not see the reflection, animals of all
kinds and sizes approaching the road do. Due to the large angle
of dispersion of these wildlife reflectors, spacing up to 66 feet on
straight parts of highways is effective.

Otto Koenig, in an essay on the importance of eyes and eye
symbols, notes that red is the most important “alarm color” for
men and other vertebrates. Humans react mOSt definitely to
round red stop lights. Primitive man frequently used eye repre-
sentatives and symbols on his dwellings. A number of animals
from moths to hawks have representations of eyes to aid them
in survival, the moths on their wings, the hawks on the backs of
their heads. -

At a conference of the Austrian Automobile Association in
1965 on prevention of accidents to wildlife, Dr. Koenig sug-
gested mounting red warning reflectors in eye patterns on both
sides of the road. Sources of light arranged by pairs would sug-
gest the eyes of predators, he said. Dr. Koenig was asked by the
Swarovski Company whether wildlife could really see the color
red, since hunters had insisted that animals were color blind. He
provided substantial documentation and common observation
to the contrary.‘ .

The results of tests attracted the attention of Austrian hunting
federations and traffic engineers, and in recorded checks of 30
kilometers of particularly dangerous areas for animal crossings
233 animals were killed each year before the wildlife reflectors
were installed, and afterwards this number decreased to 55
animals per annum (roughly a decrease of 80%). On some of
the test sections there were no more accidents with animals at
all after the reﬂectors were installed.

It is estimated that installation of the reflectors pays off within
approximately six months through reduction of wildlife acci-
dents in areas where these are prevalent. They are much
cheaper than fences.

The Animal Welfare Institute is requesting the United States
Department of Transportation to encourage use of reflectors to

'Experimental Investigations on the Acuity of Vision and Color Vision in Some Hoofed
Animals. Dieter Backhaus, Zoological Institute, Munster University.

protect human and animal lives through this proven preventive
measure.

WORLD CONSERVATION STRATEGY
LAUNCHED IN 32 NATIONS

The World Conservation Strategy, its fourth and final draft in
nent, was launched simultaneously by the International Union
the hands of governments and private groups on every conti-
for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources on
March fifth with ceremonies in Australia, Barbados, Belgium,
Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, Denmark, Dominican
Republic, England, Finland, France, Germany, Grenada, Hong
Kong, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, The
Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Thailand, Venezuela, United States, and Zambia.

In Washington, the Secretary General of the Organization of
American States Alejandro Orfila was host to the hundreds
who came to hear Russell Train, President of the World Wildlife
Fund/United States, Cecil Andrus, Secretary of the Interior,
former President Oduber of Costa Rica and other distinguished
conservationists speak.

Senator John Chafee (R., R1) announced introduction of his
bill to assist wildlife on an international basis. He said, in part:
“No one nation is the sole arbiter of its natural resources. One
country’s loss of habitat might trigger a decline in a migratory
species of unique inportance far beyond the boundaries of that
land. To turn that around, one nation’s gain in conservation is
everyone’s gain.

“In the spirit of today’s celebration, I wish to announce an ef-
fort on which we in the United States Congress are embarking.

“Nowhere among the world’s declining natural resources is
there a more extreme case than in the area of wildlife and the
habitat upon which it must depend. We may attempt to deal
with such problems as a species decline or disappearance
through trade laws and such, but the quagmire is much deeper
and so must be our approach.

“I was dismayed at the tragedy of our wildlife resources high-
lighted during recent hearings of our Senate Environment
Committee. We see species gradually disappearing from the
earth. Loss of habitat vital to wildlife, such as tropical rain
forests, is a dangerous threat to many forms of wildlife around
the globe. Two scourges of the world environment, deforesta-
tion and desertification, are taking a high toll on this precious
resource.

“I will leave here today to go back to the Senate to introduce
bipartisan legislation which would enable the United States to
extend international assistance in wildlife resource conservation
and management. The bill represents the kind of initiatives we
are fueling here with the launch of the World Conservation
Strategy. It is positive in its approach. Among its features is an
international conservation corps whereby experts from our
country can assist other nations in developing their capability to
manage their living natural resources. We would also make
available training opportunities in wildlife conservation for
representatives from other countries, so that they could attend
higher education or research institutions or take part in other
conservation training courses here in the United States.
Resource attaches would be stationed in up to ten key regions
around the world as liaisons for the gathering of needed conser-
vation information.

“I challenge the countries and organizations represented here
today, and indeed all those involved in the World Conservation
Strategy, to match our offer. Make a commitment to turn the
tide on the deterioration of our wildlife and its habitat. It doesn’t
take a lot of money. I have a hard time thinking of an effort
where the benefits would be greater for the modest amounts
spent. Join with us in a truly international conservation corps.
Who says the United States has a corner on the market of wild-
life conservation corps. We are talking about creativity here . . .
and no nation or organization will admit to being short on crea-
tivity! ~

“Let us all sow together the seeds for assuring that man does

not become a species wﬁ‘o"confe""'mpTTé-hi—a s ms—ie f ‘. .W .

Senator Chafee’s bill includes several of the basic provisions
of the House-passed elephant protection bill, urgently needed
to prevent the current poaching and smuggling of ivory that is
causing much cruel suffering among these highly social animals
and decimating their populations.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, PhD.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, MD.

International Committee

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece
Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C.,
B.Sc., M.l. Biol—United Kingdom

Officers
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
John Beary, M.D., Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Secretary

Angela King—United Kingdom
David Ricardo—Canada

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant
Diane Halverson, Research Assistant
Lynne Hutchinson, Whale Campaign

Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

N. E. Wernberg —-Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin —Chile

Staff

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

Sheryl Sternenberg, Publications
Secretary

Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 




 

 

w

 

NFORMATION REPORT

 

‘ ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D.C. 20007

April-May-June 1980 Vol. 29, No. 2

 

THE LATEST ON FUR

The new edition of Facts About Furs is now available from
the Animal Welfare Institute. Based on four years of research
by AWI staff, the book is a comprehensive account of the fur
trade and the animals involved in it. Illustrated with 79 photo-
graphs, many beautiful studies of animals in the wild, others giv-
ing sorry documentation of frenzied battles with the steel trap,
the 258-page book contains 47 charts, tables and maps, 18
appendices, and an index.

 

Cover photo: Orphaned Raccoon raised by the Sun-
coast Sea Bird Sanctuary and now restored to the wild.
Photo by Jay Morris

Principal author of the new edition is Greta Nilsson, who
wrote The Bird Business and did the research and writing for
authoritative reports on otters and macaws.

Hope Ryden, whose books God’s Dog, The Last of Amer-
ica’s Wild Horses, and The Little Deer of the Florida Keys, have
won her a secure place in the annals of American nature writing
and photography, contributed many photos, as did Dick
Randall, whose powerful documentation of the suffering
caused by steel traps is equalled by no other photographer in
the world. Other illustrations range from Audubon prints to cur-
rent news photos. AWI is grateful to the World Wildlife Fund
and Defenders of Wildlife for supplying numerous photos.

The first two editions of Facts About Furs were written by F.
Jean Vinter, MD. of the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare, who set the high standard of obtaining precise data on
the numbers of animals taken country-by-country, detailed
description of the different traps used, available scientific studies
and legislation regulating trapping. Developments since Dr.
Vinter’s pioneering study are summarized in the foreword to
the third edition as follows:

“In 1958, one year after the first edition of Facts About Furs
was published by the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare, England and Wales outlawed what the British call the
‘gin trap,’ known to Americans as the steel jaw leghold trap.”

“By the time the second edition was published by the Animal
Welfare Institute in 1973, Denmark, Austria, Chile, Republic of
Ireland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Norway, Switzer-
land, India, Gambia, and the remainder of Great Britain—
Scotland, Northern Ireland, and the Channel Islands, Jersey
and Guernesy, had outlawed the trap.”

“Since then, Bangladesh, Belize, Brazil, Burundi, British West
Indies, Colombia, Costa Rica, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon,
Ghana, Hong Kong, Hungary, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Liberia, Mali, Malawi, Malaysia, Mauritania,
Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, Portugal, Rhodesia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Singapore, Sweden, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, and Upper Volta have
banned it, bringing the total to 48 countries.”

(Continued on page 2.)

IWC ADDRESSES PROFOUND SCIENTIFIC
AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS

An unprecedented meeting sponsored by the International
Whaling Commission took place April 28—May 1 at the Smith—
sonian Institution. The report submitted by the Chairman of the
Conference, Professor Derek Ovington, Australia’s Commis-
sioner to the IWC and Director of the Australian National Parks
and Wildlife Service, follows, together with a few quotations
from the papers submitted by scientists, philosophers, and other
participants:

Report on Meeting on Cetacean Behavior
and Intelligence, and Ethics of Killing
Cetaceans

By J. D. Ovington

Background

At the 30th Annual Meeting of the International Whaling
Commission (IWC) in July 1979, the Commission agreed to a
specialist meeting to consider (1) Cetacean Behavior and Intelli-
gence as relevant to Cetacean Assessment and Management
and (2) the Ethics of Killing Cetaceans. A steering committee was
appointed to organize the meeting.

Financial support was provided by the International Whaling
Commission, the Institute for Delphinid Research, the Animal
Welfare, Institute and .m; Guglgrnrnents of Australia and the
USA.

The aims of the meeting, as given by the Secretary of the IWC,
were to provide

(a) a source of specific advice and information for the IWC for
use in its analysis, estimating procedures and establishment of
catch limits whilst whaling continues: and

(b) a unique forum for discussions of more general questions
of the ethics of whaling and their implications for the IWC. The
meeting was held in the Smithsonian Institution, Washington
D.C. USA from 28 April to 1 May 1980.

Organization

Professor J. D. Ovington, the Australian Commissioner to the
IWC, was appointed Chairman of the meeting as a whole and
chaired the opening and concluding sessions. The early sessions
concerned with intelligence and behavior were chaired by Dr.
Sydney J. Holt and the later sessions on ethics were chaired by
Dr. Lyall Watson. Both chairmen were assisted by three rapport-
eurs in preparing the minutes of the sessions for which they were
responsible.

Typed copies of submitted papers were available for partici-
pants, authors were given an opportunity to speak to their
papers prior to a general discussion and the lectures and discus-
sions were taped. In addition, several films were screened at
appropriate times.

The meeting was well attended with consistently over 100
people present. Unfortunately, since few members of the IWC
Scientific Committee attended, the opportunity was lost for con-
structive interactions with the scientists involved in stock assess-
ments and the formulation of IWC catch limits.

The Meeting

Richard Frank, the USA Commissioner to the IWC, in wel-
coming the participants emphasized the importance he attached
to the subjects to be discussed.

In his opening remarks, Professor J. D. Ovington pointed out
the meeting was an important development in the approach of
the IWC to cetacean management. Such management requires a
sensitive understanding of marine organisms and their environ-
ments. He explained that the IWC was seeking guidance and
information and gave a number of practical examples where
advice was needed.

Comments on the papers and dicussions are available through
the reports of the meeting prepared by the chairman and rap-
porteurs and the summaries of the two chairmen.

The discussions embraced the following topics: the difficulties
of defining intelligence and the relevance of a neurobiological
definition of intelligence; brain anatomy and evolution; tech-
niques of testing intelligence in cetaceans; research needs and
constraints with emphasis on benign research; the assessment of
the risks of whaling to cetaceans, people and the planet; cultural
differences between nations to the utilization of cetaceans and
the validity in these circumstances of a global ethic; communica-

(Continued on page 2.)

 




 

IWC MEETING (Continued)

tion problems between cetaceans and humans and the inappro~
priateness of some tests used to assess cetacean intelligence;
social interactions and adaptive behaviour of cetaceans, for
example, in areas where cetaceans have become a tourist attrac-
tion; the impact of whaling on the social behaviour of cetaceans,
especially those with latitudinal differences in distribution of dif-
ferent components of a population; the nature and cause of
cetacean strandings and administrative arrangements for dealing
with stranded whales; behaviour of whales during whaling opera-
tions; the killing of dolphins on Iki Island and the need to resolve
conflicts with fisheries interests; animal rights; and the question of
the humaneness of whaling methods.

The meeting was characterized by a frank, and at times
heated, exchange of viewpoints. Participants at the meeting
included scientists who are studying cetaceans as scientific sub-
jects, representatives of the whaling industry who see cetaceans
as a natural resource to be harvested, representatives of the fish-
ing industry concerned about the effects of cetaceans on fish
stocks, conservationists troubled about the past and determined
to safeguard the future of cetaceans, philosophers concerned
with the attitude of people to highly evolved animals and
bureaucrats who have to be responsive to public and political
pressures. Only time will show if the exchange of views that
occurred will lead to the development of better relationships
between cetaceans and people.

In general it was not possible in the time available to discuss
the issues raised in detail. Much of the material presented was
based on already published information, but some significant
new material was also presented. Nevertheless there is a scarcity
of factual information and the data available are subject to differ-
ent interpretations. For example, the early evolution, large size
and complexity of the cetacean brain, the ability of dolphins to
participate in complex activities devised by humans and evi-
dence of co-operative behaviour between dolphins were gener-
ally accepted but participants differed in their interpretation of
the relevance of these observations as measures of intelligence.
A small number of papers prepared for the meeting could not be
discussed in the time available.

Whilst it was evident that there were widely differing views on
the need and justification for whaling there did appear to be
some measure of agreement on the following matters:

(a) no species of cetaceans should be made extinct and
human activities likely to endanger individual whale populations
should be avoided,

(b) human activities should not diminish the potential of ceta-
ceans to provide food, pleasure or economic gain for future
generations,

(c) cetaceans, as a common heritage, are a matter of interna-
tional concern,

(d) there is a unique opportunity to investigate communica-
tion between cetaceans and humans and every care must be
taken to ensure that this is not jeopardised,

(e) the inflicting of unnecessary suffering and pain on ceta-
ceans by human activities is unjustifiable.

Future

A meeting of the Steering Committee was held at the conclu-
sion of the meeting. The Steering Committee agreed to a pro-
posal that a collection of relevant papers should be published
through a commercial publishing company, with Ms. P. Wray
(Center for Action on Endangered Species) as editor.

The Steering Committee recognised that significant progress
had been made in clarifying issues and recommended that

(a) a workshop be established by the Scientific Committee of
IWC for further detailed examination of those matters identified
as being of greatest significance to the assessment and manage-
ment of cetaceans, and ,

(b) a workshop be established by the Technical Committee of
IWC to further develop the dialogue begun at the meeting
between philosophers and people concerned with the IWC with
respect to the ethics of whaling.

Excerpts from a Few of the Conference Papers

0 “Owing to the massive amounts in whales of what appears
to correspond to association cortex in land mammals, there is

strorig”justificationﬁfgr,cop’sidering‘the brain of cetaceangsgcgcjipa:~

ble of carrying out many of the—sameahighly complex mental, 7

functions as in the human brain. With the tremendous potential
for higher brain activities residing in the almost completely neo-
corticalized brains of cetaceans, it is one of life’s ironies that na-
tions engaged in whaling practices are, unwittingly, destroying a
group of mammals which in terms of their own form of intelli-
gence, may be even closer cerebral relatives of man than the
subhuman primates. Certainly the facts demand reconsidera-
tion of past practices and a more enlightened future handling of
the problem.”—Dr. Myron S. Jacobs. Department of Pathology
and Oral Pathology, New York University Dental Center, and
Research Associate, Osborn Laboratories of Marine Sciences,
New York Aquarium.

0 “ . . . I think it should be admitted that the provision of sci-
entific advice through the existing [IWC] mechanism is a deeply
corrupting process. It is that process which perpetuates the
myth that scientiﬁc knowledge is adequate to the task assigned
of applying the NMP, and which specifically condones the con-
tinuation of present whaling operations. In fact, the only situa-
tions in which it is adequate are those where stocks of whales
have evidently been reduced so far below their ‘optimal’ levels
that there can be no doubt at all that they should be protected.

“ . . . Whatever else they may be cetaceans are large brained,
sociable, communicating and sensitive mammals with a broad
range of emotions, and great differences between individuals of
a species and even in their small groups, with long memories
and strong tendencies to parental care and other forms of
mutual aid. This means, I believe, that the present species are
likely over a far longer period than human history, to have
developed a mental culture which we are almost certainly
destroying just as surely colonizers of the new world destroyed
local human cultures, even if they did not make the indigenous
populations extinct.”—Dr. Sidney Holt, University of California,
Santa Cruz.

0 “If man is the goal of evolution then we can also accept what
follows from that assertion which is that the justification of
another animal’s existence is its usefulness to man. This was not
an unreasonable position given the known world that gave birth
to this view of reality. However, the discovery of intelligent
man-like creatures provided an anomaly that has proved indi-
gestible to this view of man’s place in nature. I think we are see-
ing in the debate surrounding the question of intelligence and
language in both apes and dolphins, the scientific world adjust
to this new reality. This process is occurring of a piece with a
reassessment of whether man and his fellow creatures have
long term common interests that outweigh the short term bene-
fits of exploitation.”—Eugene Linden. Author of Apes, Men,
and Language.

0 “The most advanced in the animal world development of the
brain associative regions in some Cetacean, extremely complex
structure of populations, clearly pronounced (but not complete-
ly estimated due to imperfection of our own brain) highly com-
plicated behaviour—all this makes us to believe that intelligence
of Cetacean is the phenomenon which has no analogs in the
animal world.”——A. V. Yablokov, Institute of Developmental
Biology, U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences, USSR.

0 “Now that hard science has revealed such special brains in
whales, we urge all men and nations to go about the task of
learning more about them and what they may tell us about our-
selves and our own evolution. Destroying another entire
species is the most unethical, despicable outrage man can per-
petrate against his own planet. The holocaust perpetrated
against whales needs to be warred against with all the tools,
economic and otherwise, we can muster. In destroying other
species man is slowly destroying himself. In destroying our
neurological relatives we are perpetrating genocide and will
lose the knowledge of another entire world. What a price to pay
for limited, local, nationalistic profit and outright greed!”—Peter
J. Morga'ne, PhD}, war—c‘ésﬁter’ Foundation for/Experimental
Biology, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts.

THE LATEST ON FURS (Continued)

Running on parallel tracks are greatly increased fur prices,
the concomitant increase in trapping wild furbearers, and the
surge of public feeling against the cruelty of the steel trap. At the
same time, science is giving us intensive studies of intelligence
and behavior of a number of mammalian species, the results of
which bring the conflict into sharp focus.

To give a sampling of information from the new edition:

' Far more wild than ranched animals are killed for fur in the
United States. Over 18,000,000 wild animals were trapped
in 1977-78, while only 3 million mink and fox were ranched.

0 Endangered species are still being killed in substantial num-
bers for the international fur trade. Ocelot skins are still being
exported from South America—estimated at over 30,000 in
1977—to furriers in Europe and Asia. Black market tiger
skins now sell for $3,000; a tiger coat represents 2% of all
tigers left in the world.

0 In Texas, between 1970 and 1978, the price of raccoon pelts
rose from $3.50 to $26.00, the number of trappers rose from
5,000 to 32,900, and the number of raccoons trapped rose

M ' ”from’TSUDUO To nearly 500,000 a year.

0 The history of the fur trade reveals the depletion of many
species of furbearing animals, reduced to endangered status
or even driven to extinction by the demands of the industry.
This trend, pushing some species to near extinction when
their pelts become fashionable, has continued to the present,
in spite of conservation legislation and international wildlife
treaties.

0 A recent attitude survey conducted by the Yale School of
Forestry and Environmental Studies reveals that three quar-
ters of the American public favor a ban on the steel jaw
leghold trap.

° Siberian Lynx coats sell for as much as $150,000, while bob-
cat and North American Lynx coats sell for over $10,000 per
coat. Pelt prices have increased astronomically within the
past few years, causing trappers to seek out furbearers with
such thoroughness that many species are disappearing from
large areas.

The book is a guide upon which to base more humane and
enlighted treatment of furbearing animals and is available from
the Animal Welfare Institute for $3.00. Libraries and humane
societies may request one copy free.

 




 

The Animal Welfare Institute displayed literature promoting a humane approach to the study of biology at student
science fairs and in the classroom at a recent National Science Teachers Convention in Anaheim, California.
AWI Executive Assistant Fran Lipscomb conducted the booth.

WORKSHOP FOR HUMAN/ANIMAL
ECOLOGY PROGRAM

A workshop sponsored by the School of Forestry and Envi-
ronmental Studies of Yale University and the Geraldine Rocke-
feller Dodge Foundation was held February seventh. lts stated
purpose was to determine the potential role of animal rights
and welfare issues in the development of a Human/Animal
Ecology Program which would provide a scientific university
context for the study and resolution of various problems involv-
ing people and animals, particularly wildlife.

Dean of the School, Dr. Charles H. W. Foster, introduced the
workshop which was held in the Yale Club in New York City.
Dr. Stephen Kellert, who recently completed the survey, “Public
Attitudes toward Critical Wildlife and Natural Habitat Issues”
funded by the US. Fish and Wildlife Service, outlined the pur-
pose of the workshop. The fifteen participants included several
authors, scientists, television educators, a philosopher, a lawyer,
an engineer, and professors and representatives of animal
welfare and conservation organizations. They were asked to
address 1) substantive issues, 2) research needs, 3) educational
and training needs, and 4) policy and management issues.

Roland Clement pointed out that modern agriculture ande _ ,

multinational corporations are chewing up what remains of our
resources and raised the question as to whether our short sight-
edness is is part of our biological make-up.

Craig Van Note called for a quantum leap in animal rights
with legal and ethical rights for animals as individuals and as a
group, emphasizing the right to survive. He referred to a new
type of inflation which is likely to get worse as the biological
clock records acceleration of extinctions. Citing lack of data, too
little and too late, his suggestion: “Send out a thousand
Darwin’s,” dramatized the necessity for greatly expanded action
by scientists.

James Mason pointed out that animal rights takes off from
the environmental ethic and recommended research from an
animal rights perspective. Animal exploitation, he said, should
be phased out. Citing Winthrop Jordan, he said the animal
hating idea is fundamental to racism.

Roger Caras blamed the elitist attitude of the human race
and the fact that animals are considered property for the failure
to establish an ethic. .

Marlin Perkins struck a more cheerful note with the twenty to
twenty-five million dollars a year now being spent on non-game
wildlife in the State of Missouri as the result of a decision to use
part of the funds from sales tax for this purpose. He showed the
publications prepared for use in the public schools using this tax
money._ _ 7 7, w .. _,,

Tom Regan provided optimism, too, as he spoke of the enor-
mous activity in the past five to ten years with books, classes,
and symposia on animal rights, and distributed a bibliography of
recent publications on the subject. He expressed surprise that so
little had been said about fine art in this connection and listed
other areas: history of other peoples, systematic surveys, laws—
federal, state, city—and its social implications; wilderness, disci-
plined vision, logic, and moral philosophy.

Stephen Kellert asked, “How do we separate the ethical from
the scientific?” Michael Fox spoke of inner values and the over-
all imperative of the culture. All agreed that a basic biological
background was essential, but a number of scientists and non-
scientists stressed the danger of narrow science raised by Dr.
Clement. Andrew Rowan referred to the “myth of the unbiased
scientist,” and Hope Ryden told of the emotional outburst in a
scientific meeting on bobcats when a leading expert, Dr. Paul
Leyhausen, proposed a moratorium on the taking of bobcats.
Dr. Fox referred to the danger of tunnel vision in scientific pur-
suits.

All were agreed that a Human/Animal Ecology Program
addressing animal welfare and animal rights in a scientific uni-
versity context was desirable and appropriate.

NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS
ASSOCIATION ADOPTS HUMANE CODE

A “Code of Practice on Animals in the Schools” was adopted
by the National Science Teachers Association Board of Direc-
tors at its 28th National Convention in Anaheim, California
March 21, 1980. The final language of the code will appear in a
fall issue of Science Teacher magazine.

Dr F. Barbara Orlans, a member of AWl’s scientific commit-
tee, and the Director of the Scientists’ Center for Animal Wel-
fare, chaired the NSTA committee which drafted the Code. Dr.
Orlans presented a workshop entitled “Plants, Worms, Insects,
Mammals—Classroom Maintenance, Projects and Code of
Practice” at the convention.

The AWl booth at the convention featured AWl’s Humane
Biology Projects, a comprehensive source of projects for
science fairs and the classroom.

BRITISH VETERINARY JOURNAL
REVIEWS AWI’S ANNALS AND THEIR
LEGAL RIGHTS

A transatlantic view of AWI’s Animals and Their Legal Rights
is provided in the review of the book published by the British
Journal, Veterinary Practice, February, 1980. Veterinarians
may find the review of particular interest.

Since publication of the third edition, 2,720 public libraries,
2,910 chiefs of police and 560 humane societies have
requested free copies. The AWI policy of providing one free
copy to each of these groups, on request, continues. It is avail-
able at cost price, $2.00, to the general public.

Informative Law Book

“Those interested in animal welfare legislation are only too
aware of the numerous Acts, orders and by-laws involved and
the limited range of literature on the subject in Britain.

“Compare this, however, with the American scene in which
one author in ‘Animals and Their Legal Rights’ advises that,
‘For those who wish to do their part to alleviate animal suffer-
ing through law enforcement, the first step is to become familiar
with federal, state, county and municipal laws on the legal rights
of animals in their locality.’

“This book is a remarkable collection of American animal
welfare law, not comprehensive, but covering the main federal
and state laws. This in itself has clearly involved substantial col-
lation by a number of American authors and Ruth Harrison (on
‘Animals in factory farms’).

“Under the headings which include slaughter, laboratory
animal welfare, dogs, cats, horses, birds, marine mammals, pri-
mates and wildlife, the various authors have taken an individual
approach to their subject matter so that the chapters vary
between a chronological account of the achievement of a single
piece of legislation, a table of all state laws on a given subject
and the complete text of a law such as the Animal Welfare Act.

“The book is not intended as a comprehensive textbook,
however, and the amount of law together with the many
sources of further information is impressive. There is even
included some EEC legislation (on transport, stunning and farm
animals) and some English, German and French law relating to
experimental animals.

“The only disappointing part of the book is the bibliography
which, in attempting to include some English literature is sadly
out of date, while the American side is based largely on refer-
ences to legislature sub-committee hearings.

“Any minor disappointments are easily overruled by the
sheer quantity of information which would otherwise cost the
private individual substantial time and money to gather. The
book would be invaluable to a veterinary surgeon taking up
practice in the USA.”

—M. E. Cooper

 




 

ELEPHANTS IN UGANDA AND ZAMBIA
NEAR EXTINCTION; ANTI-POACHING
SQUADS HAVE LITTLE EFFECT

A scientific report just released warns that Uganda’s
elephants are on the verge of extinction and an October report
reveals that Zambia’s elephant population, too, is dwindling. In
areas where professional or volunteer wildlife guards are pres-
ent, losses are somewhat reduced, but poaching still takes a
heavytoH.

A survey carried out by a team under the leadership of Dr.
Iain Douglas-Hamilton of the International Union for Conserva-
tion of Nature’s (IUCN) African Elephant Group found that
poaching in Uganda, which became widespread during Idi
Amin’s regime, continues unabated.

Elephant numbers in their two former strongholds—the
Rwenzori and Kabalega Falls National Parks in western
Uganda—have plummeted from the 1972 levels. In Rwenzori
the population has fallen from 3,000 to just 150 individuals. In
the isolated southern section of the Kabalega Falls Park, the
decline has been even more catastrophic than in Rwenzori.
Here the IUCN team found that 160 elephants remained out of
a population numbering 9,000 seven years ago. In the north of
the park, where anti-poaching measures are still in force, the
position is less critical—1,200 elephants remain out of a 1973
population of 5,000.

In Zambia’s Luangwa National Park, a 10,000 square mile
wildlife reserve, an October aerial survey showed the elephant
population had declined from 90,000 in 1972 to a low of
50,000 animals.

A Zambian anti-poaching squad recently found a poacher’s
camp set up nine days previously. The take for those nine days
was 15 elephants, one rhino and a number of smaller animals.
The tusks and horn on world markets would have brought
about £40,000. The wildlife guards caught the hired marks-
man, five helpers and the ‘go-between,’ whose job was to orga-
nize the kill on behalf of the gang’s financial backer, allegedly a
government official.

The hunter was fined only £400, the equivalent of 950
American dollars, the go-between £450 and the camp workers
were jailed for four months each. Amazingly, all guns will be
returned to the poachers. The minor fines, easily met from the
gang’s purse, are the norm in Zambian courts. The law permits
five-year prison sentences and fines of £16,500, but such pun-
ishment is seldom exacted. Unfortunately, poaching is the best
form of living a man can make in Zambia. In two weeks he can
earn five years salary.

Understandably, the Zambian wildlife guards, living alone or
in pairs in isolated posts, poorly paid, and often without ammu-
nition, can offer little resistance to well-armed poaching gangs.
In fact, ten guards were killed by poachers between 1970 and
1977 and, according to one government representative, “a
sharp increase can be expected this year.”

Tragically, a number of guard posts in Zambia are now aban-
doned, and anti-poaching patrols in and around the park
almost non-existent. Volunteers help to man roadblocks around
the edge of the park and occasionally go into the bush in search
of the poachers, but their effectiveness is limited.

The IUCN team reports that if poaching is brought under
control, the elephant populations could recover. “But,” accord-
ing to Dr. Douglas-Hamilton, “if active and forceful anti-poach-
ing meaures are not introduced immediately, the Uganda
elephant faces extinction within a year or two.”

FELIX-WANKEL RESEARCH AWARD

The West German Felix-Wankel Foundation has announced
its yearly international animal protection contest. Any person
whose research work concerns experimental or theoretical
problems of animal welfare is invited to participate. Contribu-
tions regarding alternatives to animal experiments will be of
particular in-terest.The maximumaward is $26,000. - _- -L-

Last year’s winner was Dr. Hilary Koprowski, a leader in
developing vaccines using cell cultures rather than living con-
scious mammals. For further information write:

Felix-Wankel Research Award for Animal Protection
Attn. Dir. H. J. Weichert

Ortlindestrasse 6/VIII

D-8000 Munich 81, Federal Republic of Germany

BRITAIN GIVES VEAL CALVES
ROOM TO MOVE

Instead of rearing veal calves in undersized crates on bare
slatted floors in total darkness, Britain’s largest veal firm has
developed a cheaper, more humane way of raising veal.

Quantock veal, which supplies about 90% of veal sold to
British households, now raises its veal calves in groups of 20—30
on beds of straw in well-lit airy buildings, with freedom to move
about.

According to Dr. Philip Paxman, managing director of Quan-
tock’s parent company, Volac, the new technique was devel-
oped becasue veal sales were down as a result of the cruelty
stigma. But, to the company’s pleasure, the system has proved
far cheaper than the traditional Dutch method.

“Loose housing works out to roughly £78 a calf compared
with £175 for the crated animal. The calves are more con-
tented and the meat is of excellent quality,” says Dr. Paxman.

USDA REPORT PREDICTING END OF OLD
FASHIONED PIG FARMING SPURS DEBATE

A report just released by the US. Department of Agriculture,
“Another Revolution in U. S. Farming?” predicts the demise of
the small farm hog producer. The report says that by the year
2000, three quarters of the hog industry will consist of factory
farms, each raising over 2,000 hogs per year. Already, there are
15 to 20 companies producing from 50,000 to 250,000 hogs
annually.

According to the Center for Rural Affairs, the report further
claims that factory farms are a more efficient way of raising pigs,
implying that the nation would be better off with a hog industry
resembling today’s poultry industry.

Small farm pig producers reject the implication. They claim
that the authors of the report resorted to some questionable
economic logic to show small farms less efficient merely to
rationalize the continued proliferation of pig factory farms. The
flaw in the report’s logic, the farmers say, is that it includes the
purchase of a new barn as part of a small farm producer’s
expense.

While the report recognizes the importance of Federal tax
subsidies, pollution control regulations, availability of credit, and
Federal research programs in promoting the growth of factory
farming, the small farm producers say, the authors fail to realize
that the trend toward factory operations might be interrupted
by a reversal of these same Federal policies.

According to the farmers, USDA and agricultural college hog
production research could be reoriented to help the small
producers improve efficiency and profits; tax subsidies to hog
factories could be eliminated. The farmers feel justified in seek-
ing further support in light of the fact that the USDA report itself
states that hog factories have generally delivered no better litter
size or feed conversion rates than the traditional small-scale
producers and have actually resulted in higher death losses due
to the crowded, high stress confinement environment. (Empha-
,sis added.)

/ ILLEGAL POLAR BEAR HIDE TRADE

SUPPORTS COCAINE IN ALASKA

Global trade in polar bear hides is the primary means of
financing the use of cocaine in Alaskan coastal villages, accord-
ing to the US. Fish and Wildlife Service’s chief law enforcement
agent and state drug investigators.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act prohibits the sale of raw
polar bear hides to or between non-native Alaskans. But a large
polar bear hide measuring 10 feet square can be purchased for
about $1,000 in coastal villages and, after being smuggled out
of the country, it would sell for more than $10,000 in Japan.

Besides Japan, the other large trade center for Alaskan polar
bear hides is the London Fur Exchange, where the hides bring
premium prices alongside polar bear hides from Norway,
Greenland, Canada and Russia.

Estimates of the kill rangefrorrLZOQLto 400 a year, but the

exact figure is unknown. Fish and Wildlife agent Larry Hood
says his seven-man force is finding it nearly impossible to con-
trol or keep abreast of the trade. “We’re such small timers, we
just can’t compete,” says Hood of the sophisticated hide smug-
gling and drug selling connection.

“There’s absolutely no protection for the polar bear right
now,” according to Hood.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, PhD.
Bennett Derby, MD.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, PhD.

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, MD.

International Committee

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M—Greece
Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C.,
B.Sc., M.l. Biol—United Kingdom

Officers
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
John Beary, M.D., Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Secretary

Angela King—United Kingdom
David Ricardo—Canada

Diane Halverson, Research Assistant
Lynne Hutchinson, Whale Campaign

Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

N. E. Wernberg —Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin — Chile

Staff

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

Sheryl Sternenberg, Publications
Secretary

Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 




 

 

2 September 1981

Ms. Barbara Hehner gg
FREE STUFF Editor ' ﬁ
114 Lascelles Blvd. ' '

Torento. Ontario

Canada M5? 2E4

Dear Ms. Hehner,

You have the Animal welfare Inetitute'e permission to
use the whale fram our poster,: however, the artist, Richard

Ellis, must be identifieﬁ in the illustration and his per~
mission obtained. '

The unseen Book Cbmpeny should contact Mr. Ellis at
the following address: ‘

Mr. Richard Ellis

1185 Park Avenue

New Ybrk. New York 10028
212~860~2145v

If there are any prablems in getting permission from
Mr. Ellis. please let me know.

Sincerely.

Cynthia Stokes
Publications Secretary

 




 

 

MUSSON BOOK COM PANY
3O Lesmill Road, Don Mills. Ontario M33 2T6 Tel. 416 445-3333

August 17, 1981
Ewe r Sir or madam:

Thank you very much for arreeing to list your materials in our
forthcoming book, FREE STUbF FOR KIDS. U have experienced some
delays because of the mail Strike, but e: {pect to have the book
out by the beginning of Hovember.

we would like your permission to use the following item of art~ork
from your "free stuff" to illustrate the description of your offer.

KiAaoﬁnL 4a19-\?oS$;:fd

A photOCOpy of the artwork we would like to use to illustrate
our book is attached—~it will likely be reduced to a smaller size,
mosever, to fit in the margin beside the text.

We would appreciate it if you could sign the release form belovr and
return it to us, keeping the enclosed cepy for your files. Ii there
is anyone else to whom we must write for permission, please let us
know. We would appreciate it if you could reply by return mail, so
that no more time will be lost on this project. If you have any
questions, please call Barbara Eehner at the number given below.
Thank you very much for all your help on this project.

igurs sincerely,

Barbara Hehner

F033 STUFF editor

114 Lascelles Blvd. ér—- SEKD RELEAST FORM TO THIS A
Toronto, Ontario

use 234

(415) 488—9018

D~'S

:11
b1
(/3

ti}

I give permission for the piece of artwork described above to be
reproduced in FREE STUFF FOR KIDS, Canadian edition.

2 _ , 1981 CL“ MW gﬁ;k&

“ﬁv— —

(date) ‘name - please print)

PM Mad/on: 9amevla43¢

(p )

}/ (signature)
i

no: owned by Canadians.

One of the few Canadian Book Publishing Comp

 




        
     
    
       
  

  
 
 

' .I' .' ,4
.734", ‘Lfr'é.’

  

 

 
     
    
 
     
   
   
  
 
   

 

  

a.

I

\

.

I u'

""t‘:

: P:-

:3»;

“{‘r‘

:‘p‘ '\
‘9 ‘1.- T
‘ :s
‘47: 8

 

m;

’ 1
r.’

"S

I

 

 

 

’u I w
w “-4-.p‘:L-“= .

’1 ﬂ'l'é‘. i i?!” ’m‘.‘. \iﬁ‘a.l~- A
:III/ll'iﬂv If ‘J " h

rag; ,--

not A. 5" ‘ﬂ 4. / p 1 .‘

ﬂit g“ #29 52': 7'2: \
. h l

k

 

 

   

‘ '1" rat! a,”

1 i .' 3'

her/724% a" ‘§?ARA§C ‘ " ’1 ', 1,”! . . . .- 4 . 3,9" 91.95;"? #3,? 74 ’5, 53‘ :11""";'?.‘€; _-:‘
"/10"&» “9"" "‘ “. ”\iI" 90’ " '- 44-. "f, .13 '72???’ .2.“ a"??? X31113 3“"«1 ’
. . . ‘ , , 4 _ ' 4. 1 v 0' .
M ‘?“‘¢‘.\\\ wean, - .. ~ - ”'5" ’."‘,t",,,3’191;r}§‘tbtgm.’ '. “
1’ m R ‘1‘ "24' 4'0'12'0’ '." ;;5; ’ ‘
" \" ‘:'6:‘fv I I I u' a." '
'0“ ‘0 .v .:.P’ 2’ ’:.5:£3 ‘l;::': lo:‘.,!..!’5:’: 5:.1
32-22%: 3535 *

 
    

’4

 
 
 
   
  

O

 

 

 

 

 

:CQ“: ‘5: q .

 

:1334":-- -

0 ‘6‘!)ihidz;
o ’ .




 




. SAlei
Mrs. Annetta Himmelfarb ,
4545 Connecticut Ave., N4W.
'Washington,*D.C. 20008

 




 

 

 

10 March 1981

as. Barbara Eehner
FREE ETUPP Editor
114 Lasceiles Blvd.
Toronto, HSP 2E4
Canada

Dear Ms. ﬁshnet.

You have probably received by now our .
release form for FREE STUFF For Kids (81~82).
On it I gave permission to list our whale
button. Our stocks of. these buttons are
running low and we are not planning ta re-
plenish them when they run out, so you may
want to remove this itém tram our list.

’ Thank you.

Sincerely.

Cynthia Stakes
Publications Secretary ’

 

 




 

 

 

FREE STUFF FOR KIDS

RELEASE FORM SEPTEMBER-1984 THROUGH 1982

YOU have 0UP PerLSSLOn t0 L15“: You and_YOur Dog (20¢). Kittens
and Cats 120¢), Good Kind Lion (free)! A Letter from a Whale (free),

A Whale of a Friend (free). whale poster (one free)L whale button
(one free)

Ln FREE STUFF FOR KIDS. We agree to respond to requests From
chLLdren for one each of the above Ltem(s) from September 4984
through 4982. We reserve the rtght to substLtute another
comparabLe Ltem LF necessary (Lf orLQLnaL suppLLes run out or
Lf the Ltem Ls revLsed), and we wLLL send sampLes of such Ltems
to Musson Books Lf substttuttons become necessary. We understand
that we are responsLbLe for aLL maLLLng and handLLng of our Ltem(s)
and not Musson Books or the estors of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS.

m

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SLgnature ' 'ﬁ Pant name
Publications Secretary . , Animal Welfare Institute
TLtLe7Department Organtzatton
24 February 1981 P.O. Box 3650
Date Address

Washington. D.C. _

Cttu Provtnce

20007

 

PostaL Code

202~337~2332
PhOne

PLease pant the fuLL address . use address above
to whtch chLLdren shouLd send
requests (you may sth to code
the address to heLp Ldenttfg
requests):

 

 

 

 

PLease note any Fees for postage and handLLng or soecLaL maLLLng
LnstructLOns you wouLd LLke us to mentLon. For Lnstance, do you
want readers to send requests on a postcard; do you want them to
send you a Long, seLf—addressed, stamped enveLOpe?

Postcard requests are fine.

E] Yes Can we reLease the detaLLs of tth offer and the
' name or gour organtzatton Ln [3 LocaL, E] nattonOL
I] NC newspapers and magaanes when we promote FREE STUFF

FOR.KIDS?

 




   

mussou BOOK COMPANY
30 Lesmill Road, Don Mills. Ontario M33 2T6 Tel. 416 445-3333

Dear SLr or Madam:

- 5 I'm erth9 to anLte you to parthLpate Ln 0 project thch wLLL
heLp you to dLstrLbute across Canada some of the vaLuabLe materLaLs
produced by your company or orgaanatLon.7 In the faLL of 1984,
Musson Books wLLL pubLLsh FREE STUFF FOR KIDS, a book that wLLL
LLst and descrLbe Tree and up— to— $4. 25 Ltems that CanadLan
chLLdren can send away for.‘ I wouLd parthuLarLy LLke to anLude
Ln tth book the foLLowLng Ltems:

 

”A WhaLe of a FrLend”; “A Letter from a WhaLe”; poster, button?

(or whatever other Ltems you now have Ln stock)

ShouLd you be Lnterested Ln parthLpathg Ln tth project, and A“
I hope you are, couLd I ask you to send me sampLes of the above

Wgtems, and/or other materLaLs you feet uouLd be approprLate, at
the address gLven beLow. .In adstLon, send detaLLs of cost,
maLLLng LnstructLons, and the address to thch chLLdren shouLd
erte. Our sumessLon deadLLne Ls March-451*4984.

 

There Ls no charge to any of the parthLpants LLsthg Ltems Ln
FREE STUFF FOR KIDS. Vaur onLy obLLgatLon, Ln order to guarantee
the reputatLon of our book, Ls to make sLngLe capLes of your
materLaLs avaLLabLe thrOUQh41982. -(I have encLOsed a reLease
form.) '

 

our pubLLcatLon Ls modeLLed on a successfuL AmerLcan book and
I am enCLosLng a page from the Latter to show you our format.
If you have any questLons, pLease erte or caLL.

 

?,5.’?\w£ ME Yard MIW Yours sanereLy,

(1&4me Qaww‘c gem.» SASEt— (WWW

ukaLE O&.Q5kﬁ- *° Cﬁubﬂgtk a. Barbara Hehner
EVO?31& FREE STUFF estor

5W w Qs\\/?b ’I’I4 LasceLLes BLvd.

+c “MﬂKE; L$f% ‘+%\5? - Toronto, OntarLo

Canada MSP 2E4
(446) 488-9018

BH/sLs'
EncLs:

One of the few Canadian Book Publishing Companies ownad by Canadian.

 




 

MUSSON BOOK COM PANY
30 Lesmill Road, Don Mills. Ontario M33 2T6 Tel. 416 445-3333

 

February 5, 1981

Greethgs!

By now you aLready know what dee dLstrLbutLon your materLaLs
receLved through the AmerLcan estLon of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS,
Ln thch your company had a page. (A capy Ls encLosed.7- I
am now deveLOang a CanadLan estLon, to be pubLLshed by
Musson Books Ln the FaLL af-1984, and I expect that you wLLL
want to be anLuded Ln Lt. _

.‘I am anLthg you, therefore, to sumet to me, at the address
gLven beLow, any materLaLs that you wouLd LLke to make avaLLabLe

to CanadLan ChLLdren. (These can be the same Ltems LLsted Ln

the AmerLcan FREE STUFF, but they don't have to be.) The Ltems

you offer may be free, or they may cost up to $4.25 Ln CanadLan

funds (worth about $4.05 U.S.). CanadLan chLLdren can send

you seLf—addressed enveLopes, but ovaousLy they can't put

U.S. stamps on them. You may therefore sth to make the cost

of your Ltems a LLttLe thher, to cover postage as weLL as the

exchange rate.

 

As thh the_U.S. estLon, we must reqque, because of our need

to guarantee the book's reputatLon, that you be abLe to make '
sLngLe capLes of your materLaL avaLLabLe through 4982. (PLease
see the encLosed reLease form.)

PLease send me your sampLes, aLOng thh a Letter speLLLng out
detaLLs of costs, maLLLng LnstructLons and address to the
address gLven beLow before March 15. Thank you very much.

"Yours sanereLy,

(” ES 3 ‘**iL\M3LA_,/

Barbara Hehner
FREE STUFF estor
i444 LasceLLes BLvd.-

Toronto, OntarLo
Canada MSP 2E4

 

(416) 488-9018

BH/sLs
EncLs:

P.S.
'lf you have a CanadLan representatLve.whom l shouLd

contact, pLease Let me know.

One of the few Canadian Book Publishing Companies owned by Canadian.

 




 

 

fisherman’s friend

Bet you don’t know what a Portuguese Waterdog PETS
looks like! Send away for a bumper sticker, decal

and information about this endangered species that

catches fish and dives for objects lost underwater.

directions: Use paper and an envelope.
You must enclose a long, self-
addressed, stamped envelope

   

and 50¢.
ask for: Preserving Portuguese Waterdogs
write to: Mrs. Herbert H. Miller, Jr. ‘
One Greenley Rd.

New Canaan, CT 06840

kids’ best friends

Your cat and dog can be your best friends. Learn
how to treat them better by sending away for these
two booklets that have pictures you can color.

directions: Use paper and an envelope.
You must enclose 20¢ for each
booklet that you order.

ask for: Kittens and Cats
' You and Your Dog
write to: Animal Welfare Institute
‘ P.O. BOX 3650

, Washington, DC 20007

 

 

 

 




 

for the birds! ‘ /\

   

    

 
 

ECOLOGY &
Do you know how to invite birds to your home? You W'LDL'FE
plant the trees and bushes that give them the best
shelter and food! The US. Soil Conservation Service
has booklets which tell you what plants and foods
make perfect homes for the feathered friends in your
area. Color photos give you a good idea of what each
bird and each best-for-bird plant looks like.
directions: Use a postcard. \ _
-o
ask for: Invite Birds to Your Home: *‘ \Egv
Conservation Plantings forthe. .. Jigs,
1. Northwest 5 33:15.3
2. Northeast \ ‘ ‘L
3. Midwest , - t. y b”
4. Southeast ﬂ '\ “wig \M‘Q\
(Say which area you live in. There \ 7““ ,
is no publication available to r). w‘ j :,%\\\
readers in the southwest, ‘ f MCI.” ‘.
however.) ' ”T‘ " , t ,3; 934; t
3" \ . '2 .. :V‘MV‘ZV‘ \\
write to: Soil Conservation Service ' 1&5 ‘5 \f‘» \
Room 0054 i/ t ‘ <5
PO. Box 2890

Washington, DC 20013

You can also write to your local Soil Conservation
Service Office. It is listed in your telephone book under
United States Government, Department of Agriculture.

 

 

 




‘ CSTA NEWSLETTER

Editor- Marten Tafel
I3 Hyde Lane. Westport Ct. 06880

CONNECTKIH‘
SCIENCE TEACHERS
ASSOCIATION. INC.

State Chapter of
National Science Teachers Association

 

CSTA 22th Annual Conference
Quinnipiac College, New Haven
Saturday, March 14
The Conference Committee can be

proud of having assembled so amazing
a group of offerings at a relatively
short time. There was more than
anyone could experience during the
three sessions. Probably forty plus
offerings in one day are too much
but the exciting variety could have
pleased a crowd ten times as large.

Maureen Smith (Program), Ray
Delehant and Clayton Barton (Co—
chairmen), Vera Casso and Carol
Etzold (Publicity and Re istration)
and Ed North (Exhibitors did highly
commendable jobs. ,

There were othere also who con-
tributed to this event's success.
First mentioned must be the ex-
hibitors-~the read-out will be made
at the next issue. Then there were
those CSTA members who volunteer to
do the many chores.

For those not there--what do you
think about the possibility of a Loch
Ness monster? Whatever your comment,
you're wrong. With a brilliant talk
and amazing underwater films, Dr.
Wyckoff of Allied Photo Sciences made,
a presentation which changes unbe-
lievers to mere skeptics and skeptics
to believers. . . ~

The luncheon was well served and
the Quinnipiac staff was different-—
they were courteous, helpful and
friendly.

' CSTA Exec Board Meeting
Teachers' Center, Westport, CT

VOL. XVIII #5 March-April

your chef—d'oeuvre to Dr. D. smith,
Bio Dept, SCSC, New Haven.
CSTA will make a firm statement on

(the so—called scientific creationism

so that we'll be on record before we
seem to retreat. Anyone having ‘
trouble with kook groups should
communicate with the CSTA Exec Board
for help. If we cannot speak for
ourselves with force, we're merely
paper tigers.

Unreconciled: "All the best laid
plans..." are as nothing if we lose
our-jobs, our courage, and, the
money to do our work effectively. It's
bad enough that NSF has virtually cut
off their science education arm. It's
terrible that Federal funds will make
us sad before the year is over. (Mass-
achusetts will lose about 1/3 of its
teaching staff because of that stateka
"2%" reactionary cuts. Conn. ADM cuts
affect 20 towns on the divide and
conquer this time. Why is this issue
"unreconciled"? - ‘

We have not united to scream against
the current point of view of the
majority of home owners. They say, "We
do not have children at school anymoreﬁ
True--but how were they educated? On
public funds or did their daddies pay
the full load of their education?

Maybe that's the best argument
against public education. If we have
not educated the American mature v
majority that education has :a high:
priority, (her) education is a waste
of money and time: maydbe we should
retreat to our caves.

**************

19 March

i As a result of date conflicts with‘VC
‘ the Conn. Science Supervisors Ass'n,
fewer attendees but much was reported.
Fred Myers' financial report was
splendid-—even though we are a few
members shy of last year, our income
18 up. Our label printing (etc) device
is now installed at Choate in Walling— . . .
ford and if ever the Postal Service éiilgircﬂignd7ége43§gringfield, MA
c ‘ ’
Cigege£:§?l§: ghgﬁhgrdEEIEQ t£:,%ip Had you seen the sign "Stop Pollution—-
have production problems in hand. -' Eat Pigeons"? With those hawks, falcons

The Journal (D&M Smith) has the next etc. around, we might not even have to

issue's galleys at hand and it looks eat crow.
fine. You too can be in print—-send 1 t * * * * * * * * * *‘* * *

Birds of Prey -- When someone with an
eagle on his forearm, or a lovely lady
with a hooded falcon walks by, you

take notice. Dick Lucius was at the
CSTA Conference and getting close
enough to those birds was "some
thrilling".‘ Don't know his fee, but
he's got them, others, will talk (well)
and travels.

  




 

Chemistr Collea es . .
NEACT {Madeline Goodstein, pres.) Will
hold its 43rd Summer Conference at
North Adams State College, North Adams,
MA. Barry Stiber of Naugatuck H.S., CT,
is in charge of arrangements. In July
1984 NEACT will co—Sponsor an ACE .
conference with U Conn in Storrs. Friend
Vincent Cash of CCSC retired from their

Chem. Dept. So many of us were helped by
him—-we wish him well. -

-"Oh Canada", again 27-31 July 1981
Duncan McArthur Hall, Faculty of
Educ, Queens Univ, Kingston, Ontar-
io K7L - 3N6

That internationally known bright
professor, Irwin Talesnick, will be
offering a program "Workshop on
Demonstrations and Student Experiments
in Chemistry". Note the dates--you
can go from there to Waterloo, Ontario
and enjoy their conference 9-7 August.
The workshop program is $150 (Canadian)
which includes all fees, coffee-and,
two evening meals. Single rooms are
$25.00 per week. Only 25 participants
for the workshop so you'll get the
best. Write for further details.

The Science Teachers Assoc. of
Ontario has developed a Curriculum
Resource Catalogue. It includes Bio
and Physics as well as Chem. Write
for free COpy. .

Also, they publish a Handy Chemical
Data for students—-S.I. metric 30
pages - $2.50.

And, Interesting Problems, 125
of them, mainly chemistry stated in
such a way that most school labs (plus
interested students would do well to
be kept busy doing these problems.)
($2.75).

It's all readable and "do".able.

*************

Chem 13 News——These amazing Canadians
do so much, so often. Apart from theirp
.exciting Chem 13 News, they offer a
Collection of Chemical Demonstrations.
2h pages, 133 chem demos. It's a re-
print at $3.00. Chem 13 News, Univ

of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
N21 3G1.

4-7 August-—Conference for Chem
Teachers, Chem 13 people plus——learn
and share ideas in the full Spectrum
of Chem. Ed. Room and board, 3 days
$65. Lower rates for family, and,

.Canada has great tourist opportunities.
They call it Chem ED 81—-Contact Ivars
Peterson at the given address.

  

"Sieve —- holes bound together by wire" 2

 

O ’4

Chem. Mfg Assn, 2501 M

themecology,
St, NW, Washington, DC 20037, has a
new format—~10 pages and chock full of
articles "to promote a clean environ-
ment". Guess we'll criticize the
heavenly issue of wings when we get
there so we question-some of Chemecol-
ogy statements. But overall, if you
want to know some things that bother
the chemical industry, get on their
list-Tfree and informative.

Office of High School Chemistry, Amer.
Chem. Soc1ety, 1155 Sixteenth St, NW,
Washington, DC 20036. CHEMUNITY is a
new publication--free——for H.S. chem-
istry teachers.

Tested Demos in Chemistry — 6th
Edition—-includes those fabulous tested
demonstrations in General Chemistry by
Hubert Alyea and his Demonstration
Abstracts. More & More edited by F.B.\
Dutton. $7.50. Journal of Chem. Ed.,
Office of Publication Coordinator,

238 Kent Road, Springfield, PA 19064.

Chem Magic Show, you can present a
one hour show with Chem. tricks—-86
page booklet used by professional
magicians $5.00--Wilson and Gardner,
Box 33l, Los Alamitos, Calif. 90720.

Technological Horizons in Educ.
publishes T.H.E. Journal --6 issues a
year:-write for free exam. copy and
application for free subscriptions.

Circ. Dept., T.H.E. Journal. P0
992, Acton, MA 0l720.

**************

Box

' NASA We were honored to be invited to

the first space shuttle launch the week
of 5 April. We're perplexed-—having
received the 6 March invitation on the
10th, the cutoff receipt date was the
20th of March. Furthermore, the limited
acceptances were on a first received,
first accepted basis. Curtis Graves,
Director of Academic Affairs must be
mildly out of touch with reality.

If there is one science teacher "out
there" who could get administrative
clearance and the money in that short
period, pretty please get in touch with
this editor. We will fall all over our-
selves to honor you. guy

It may be a prettyraction to seek

l‘

i the mote in the eye of such a wonder—

ful organization, but we're getting to
feel lower on the totem pole as those
noble hot-shots climb higher on the
ladder.

It is time that our nationally funded
organizations consider working through

,. professional organizations and working

people "on the line".
*************

 




  

Marine'Educators

HOTLINE!!! Mickey Weiss has voluna .

teered to handle the Marine Hotline
through "Project Oceanology". If

they can't get answers to your ques-
tions "off the top of the head" youil
get the answer to your most difficult
question in short time-—what connec-
tions they have: Write of phone Dr.
M. Weiss, Project Oceanology, Avery
Point, Groton, CT 06300. Telephone:
(203) 445—9007.

Possibly the quickest growing group
of disciplines in education falls
within the rubric of Marine Sciences.
The National Sea Grant Institutes are

wonders to behold and read about. Our _

nearest most active one is U. Rhode
Island. Prentice Stout is their Marina

Ed. specialist. They have an ad—
visory service at Narragansett RI
02882; (401) 792—6183. Affiliated
in diverse ways is a Coastal Re—
source Center, Summer Sessions for
teachers and students (YMCA and
vessel Seascope), dozens of Adult
Ed courses, overnight accommoda-
tions—~just too much to list.

The Mass. Marine Educators are
unbelievable. We nearly drown in
our drool when we read about all
their offerings. They have facilia
ties to use galore, Cape Cod Sea
Camps, Brewster, MA 02631 (Henri
Rauschenbach) being only one place;
Barbara Waters of the 4H program of
Barnstable County Extension Service;
the exemplary New England Aquarium,
Boston (742—8830), Jack Crowley
Hingham HS, Hingham, MA (749-4322).
That's only the beginning. What
programs!

The publications we receive: —-

Oregon State Univ, Extension
Marine Service, Corvallis, OR 97331
are wide—ranging and.exciting;

NY State Seafront Inst, Fernow
Hall, Cornell Univ, Ithaca, NY 14853
publishes Coastlines, a well written
and edited 8—page newsletter;

Louisiana's Aquanotes really writes
for its public- Published bimonthly
by their Sea Grant Department, La.
State Univ, Center for Wetland Re—
sources, Baton Rouge, LA 70803.

There are others but we don't have
their publications handy. If inter—
ested, Prentice Stout of URI has the
full bibliography. .

Conn. Non—Federal Marine Groups:
All interested marine educators know
about the aforementioned "Project

 

Oceanology"——if net, start there.

L 4
3 h

"7

New Haven is blessed with:

A) ACES, 800 Dixwell Ave, New
Haven, CT 06511. They can
arrange marine experiences.
Schooner, 60 S. Water St,

New Haven, CT 06519 (865-
1737). They offer a wide
range of experiences aboard,
and Karen Sullivan is the new
Captain of their vessel J.N.
Carter. Phone or write for
testing of all their activities
. even whale watches.

'Stamford can boast the Oceanic
SOCiety, non-profit national group.
They publish Oceans. They have a
#0 ft. research vessel. A wide range
of subjects and programs are aVail—
able including school programs,-inter—
tidal and_at their center programs.
Contact Skip Crane, Stamford Marine
Center, Magee Ave., Stamford, CT
06902 (327—9786).

Lands End is the newsletter of the
CT Coastal Management program. Dis-
cusses most of our shoreline problems.

Free: C.A.M., 71 Capitol Ave, Hartford
CT 06115.

**************

Nat'l Marine Education Ass'n — 1981
Conference 5-8 August 81 — Texas A&M,
Galveston, TX. Contact: Vi Lien,
Conference Co-Chairperson, Marine Ed
Program, Dept of Ed. Curric &
Instruction, Texas A&M Univ,
Station, TX 77843.

**************

B)

College

ERIC, Materials on Energy—Related
Careers, Info Bulletin #2 1980.
‘ Ohio State University
1200 Chambers Rd
Columbus, Ohio 43212.
Not only names, where and how to
get them, but also descriptions of
the many references. '
Safety in the Science Classroom
Bulletin #3 — Who is responsible;
what must the science teacher be
reasonably expected to do? General
safety practices——references, biblio
etc.
Every educator/teacher should be
knowledgeable about ERIC.

**************
"Brittain's Axiom: No matter what the
result of the experiment nor how clear
the evidence, there is someone waiting
to misinterpret it."

*******

."Roger's Principle: In any collection

of data, the obviously correct figure
18 the mistake."

 




  

., 6:211"? '= N I
‘,,

Biology Colleagues .

Just received DNA, that exciting,
difficult to read purple spirit—roller.
offset newsletter by Sandy Wiper of
Riley House, Newton North H.S., Newton-
ville, MA 02160. What a man. What in—
formation he sends to his Mass.
colleagues. .
Excerpts: l) 6th year for oceanography
at Bar Harbor, ME, Acadia Inst. of
Ocean., 2 four—week sessions, lab,
no grades, no credits, for students
only. Contact George Hahn, Sol Dept,
Newton North H.S.; 28 June—25 July or
26 July-22 Aug.

2) Joke: The evolutionist
looked so much like his father—-a
chimp off the old block. Darwin went
bananas over that one.

3) NABT will hold its Natl
convention in Las Vegas —- roll 'em.

4) Item: Beech trees re-
sist lightning damage—~poor conduct-
ors because the contain oils. How
would eucalyptus fare?
5) Joke: "It's true
Mendel remained single. Afraid of
becoming dominated——it was his
trait". -
6) Chevron Film Library
' l Rockefeller Plaza, Suite 1710, NY
10020 has a 12-minute film on
Creativity.
7) Scientifi£_American
article on "Plasmeds" Dec 1980--
"They're actually subcellular
organisms poised on the threshold
of life".
8) Ask for free copy of
Harvard Med School Health Letter,
Subs. Dept., PO Box 2437. Boulder,
CO 80321 "to combat medical non—
sense and misinformation". .
9).New FREE edition of {if
Humane Bio Projects and First Aid ”’[iﬂp
& Care of Small Animalg. Use school'”\m:
letterhead. Animal Welfare Inst, '
PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007.

10) Have students whose
parent(s) are in medical fields
bring in old magazines for your
students to peruse.

ll) Natl Clearinghouse for
Drug Abuse Information Publications
listing — Jan 1981. They have a
tremendous amount of publications’
under the following titles: Pre-
vention/Education materials, Report
series, Research issue series, Re—

 

search monograph series, Special v
Action Monographs, Annotated
Bibliographies, Special Biblios,
Technical and Treatment Monographs
After you get

and Special Reports.

the listing, you get the ones you
‘care for-—free! '
NCDAI, PO BOX 416
Kensington, MD 20795

*************

~ "Integrity", a newsletter dedicated to
maintaining the integrity of science,
Circulated by the Natl Assoc of Bio
Teachers, 11250 Roger Bacon Drive,
Reston, VA 22090. Their policy reads,
"...the context of science courses
must meet the test of SCIENCE. All
that we offer as science must be
established through experimentation,
publication, critical review, and,
acceptance by the scientific commun—
ity. Materials which do not meet the
standards of science should not be
part of the science curriculum..."
$9.00 subscription.
That statement opens a can or worms.
Of course, what we teach meets those

criteria, but what about those other
teachers?

*************,*

Science Summer Camp for Gifted
Youngsters '

12—17 July - 7th and 8th graders onhr
19-24 July — 9th and 10th " "
Director: Dr. Floyd Mattheis of Sci.
Educ. Dept, East Carolina Univ,
Greenville, NC 27834. Total cost $150
all inclusive. Write for details.

*********~*****

AgNorth American Learning Expedition
for Elementary Teachers — An eat—your—
heart-out program aboard the I44 ft.
barkentine Regina Maris. July through
August 1981. A whole research expedi—
tion, work as research assistant. Fee
$3050. Get all the info from Bureau

of Educ. Field Services, 201 Cushing
Hall, North Eastern Univ, 360 Hunting-
ton Ave, Boston, MA 02115.

*************

Amer. Heart Assn - Conn. Affiliate
and Chapters and divisions

Have you contacted them recently?
They have much to offer. Look in your
phone book. And that goes for the:
Amer. Cancer Society, Amer. Diabetes
Assoc., Conn. Assoc. for the Deaf,
Conn. Entomological Society, Conn.
Wildlife Fed., and, your local
museums and nature centers. No
kidding: with Federal, State and
local funds being withdrawn, we've
got to look around.

*************

 




  

Wesleyan Univ, Middletown
16-17 March

This JSHS meeting was among the most
brilliant of their 18 annual occasions.
The High School Juniors made one realize
the world is not going to the dogs?-
it was the brightest uplifting exper-
ience in a moribund world. Their
speech patterns, subject and deport—
ment were inspirational. The Wesleyan
hosts, especially Robert Rosenbaum,
and 306-“ Miller made us feel as
though it was homecoming Week at our
own school.

Brilliant talks, youngsters'
presentations and visits to scientists
made the two—day symposium long to be
remembered.

What is inconceivable is that some
school systems do not respond to the
potential of the JSHS. Maybe there
should be a re—evaluation of what is
called "administration" in school
systems which overlooks opportunities
for its students and teachers. '

The Fairfield Energy Exposition was
_ a huge affair——7 March,Andrew Warde
H.S. Fairfield. As they say, "A
cast of thousands"; Usually the
production load falls on a couple of
people. Diane Angione of Fairfield
bore the brunt with assists by Bette
Del Giorno. The kids' exhibits were
all a science fair should be.

There continues to be Energy
workshops available for K—6 or
secondary schools. Contabt Bob
Amrein at Talcott Mt Science Center
in Avon or Dr. S. Abeles, CT-State
Science Consultant.

'There was¢also a mini NSTA/CSTA
meeting in situ. Some tidbits: At
least seven schools in Mass. can't
teach physics—-no qualified teachers.
' Purdue Univ. has 35,000 students but
not one physics teacher was graduated
in two years. Imagine the otherworld-
liness of college students working at
the chem bench in labs when they
heard that the ones beside them will

raduate to chem corporations at
20,000 or so and if they're idealists
they may get a job at a public school
for $9,000. Did yOu realize that in
Japan, the Sony Corp. picks up the

tab for science teachers to travel,

to continue studies and to attend
conferences? Education is a national
Japanese concern——it‘s the long pull
not today's bottom line. How different
are American industries' priorities.
And then we're shocked at the prec1p—‘
itous drop in science and math scores.

K. ‘ \
Junior Selence & Humanities Symp081um...

5

'in the lab,

* NSTA Looking Ahead -— 2-5 April 1982,

the NSTA National-Convention will be
held in Chicago. If you'd care to go
go as a participant. They'll need
presentees, presiders and evaluators.
-Your name will be listed in the pro-
gram and you might get respect from
your B of Ed.

Contact: Mary Nalbandian

Chicago B of Ed,

Bureau of Science, Rm 814
228 N. LaSalle St'
Chicago, IL 60601.

Bob Yager, Pres-elect, writing for
the Research Committee, asks the
Board "...that science be designated
as an essential 'R'in the school
curriculum, an 'R' for reasoning.
Reasoning, logical thought, and
critical analysis are the basis
for science and intellectualism;
...represent.the foes of super-
stition, ignorance and faulty
assumptions".

By the time you read this, our own
Sarah Klein will be President of
NSTA. > .

Now Past President Don McCurdy held
a series of meetings "on the Hill"--
his strong stand for science educa-
tion could not have entirely been lost
on the Congressional Committee. But
did they listen? If they did or didn't
all science teachers have their
philosophies, jobs and interests at
stake. "This is the time" to write
your letters to one aﬁ all in govern-
ment stating your position. They
look at the number of responses--if
they read--probably we should write

on lead sheets to give the arguments
more weight.

***********D**

Conn. Science Supervisors Associa-

tion Meeting 19 March

This dinner meeting was to have been
addressed by Sig Abeles and a CT State
Dept. of Education lawyer, Scott
Brohinsky. After the first few minutes,
the supervisors started to ask the
kinds of questions we all would like
to have asked. What happens (liability;
wise) after the teacher tells the
principal that too many students are
or some kid is blind or
deaf, or whatever, and, the principal
will not absolve the science.teacher
with a statement in writing. It seems
it went on for hours and Scott B. will
be back. We ought get a transcript
re our legal rights--if any.

**************

 




 
 

Electronic Technologies N s c“ oer Mic Lem: 10-7121 .

The school curriculum rarely considers the role of the
computer in our society. Just as we recognize the Stone
Age and the Bronze Age, the Iron Age and the. Machine
Age, historians are likely to look back on our own time and
label it the “Computer Age.” Use of computers and other
modern electronic technologies has far outstripped the most
venturesome predictions of twenty years ago. The computer
is revolutionizing the way business and industry are con-
ducted, and thus the nature of many jobs. s s p e

Teachers

‘9?!
ﬂ“. (9903: m4 btiaﬂﬁ

Recent studies confirm that the classroom teacher still
plays the pivotal role in education. Thus, it is distressing
to learn that there is a serious shortage of mathematics and
physical science teachers in the Nation’s secondary schools;
In the case of mathematics teachers, the annual vacancy
rate may run as high as ten percent nationwide, and ﬁve-
year projections do not indicate likely improvement in this
situation. Equally disconcerting, however, is the fact that
many of these vacancies do not really go unfilled. The jobs
instead are given to individuals with only marginal capa-
bility in these teaching areas. As might be expected, the
quality of instruction then frequently declines. The most
likely cause of this teacher shortage, in contrast to a per-
sonnel surplus in other teaching fields, is the growing dis-
parity between salaries inside and outside of education.
During 1978-79, for example, a person with a bachelor’s
degree in mathematics or statistics could expect to receive
only three-quarters as much as a teacher as he or she could
receive from private industry. o o o

'5'??-

33V

USQOVT Pawn/M estate g-

9.4 was 'kam

  

Finally, support systems for teachers are eroding. There -
are relatively few persons available outside the classroom
to provide quality control and assist teachers with peda-
gogical problems. And continuing educational opportunities
for mathematics and science teachers have been reduced. 0 9 V

 

,ﬁ' ' CSTA
/ U Choate Rosemary Hall
(\\ ‘ Wallingford. Conn. 06492

WXI

:.:'
g
Q
:i—
U
0/
q _
E,

k“

-Tdueahh~

 

 

1

Share this Newsletter with a Colleague.

‘ lgtAnnual Cpnn.T§ird Conference

Natl Audubon Society" '

2 May 81 _ -

Contact NE Regional Office, Sharon
06069 or the Greenwich, Housatonic,
T.L. Foundation or Litchfield
Hills Audobon societies. April is
National Audubon Society month and
they're planning a Birdathon. The
Greenwich Audubon is open Sundays
now. What a lovely place to Visit.

_ **************
NOTE: Threat or Promise?

This summer the CSTA Exec Board will
attempt a shattering experience. It
Wlll plan ahead—-l)Meetings will be
located-~time and place. This will
allow-members to plan to attend Board
meetings and see for themselves.

. . 2)Major events will
be planned——time and place.
. . 3)We'd like your
adv1ce, opinions, ideas before then.

NAEP (Nat'l Assessment of Educ. Proe
gresggrmnises that SCIENCE will be in-
cluded in the 1981-82 program. Levels-
9, 13 and 17 year olds, approx. 18,000
"...we will be able to monitor student?
understanding of scientific concepts
and their attitudes...and help us in
shaping recommendations for science
education."

Ain‘t that chuthah, gall, presump—

.tion? 18,000 out of how many million

students?

 

NONPROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

P A I D.
Permit No. $6

Wallingford, Conn.
06492

 

 

 

 




 

19 May ' 1981

Mr. Peter Cardozo

Bantam Booka Inc.

666 Fifth.hvanua
Nuw‘York, New Yark('10103

Dear Ms. Cardozo.

We're happy to give you permission to use illustrations
from ”Kittens and Cata“ and “You and Your Dog.”

May we suggest that a passage about spaying and nauter~
ing be included. too. since this is so vary important in pre~
vention of cruelty. A copy of the page from “Kittans and Cats"~
on this topic is attached.

With thanks and best.wishes.

Sincerely.

Cynthia Stokes
Publicaticns Secretary

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New’naun. March 6 —— Every
20 minutes, a whale dies, its back
blown open by the explosion of
shrapnel from a 1504b harpoon.
Often many hat'poons are ftredto
kill a mother whale.

As the Washington-based Ani-
mal Welfare Institute puts it: “it
is probably the cruellest and most
inhumane slaughter in the world.
Death is prolonged and agonising
as the mighty creature’s blood
turns the sea red." . .

The whales are the largest crea- ,

tnr‘es ever to live on earth.‘ They “

are highly intelligent and some
whales, it is said. even have
brains more complex than any
species, including man. The who.
les communicate with each other,
across miles of the sea, often
with beautiful musical sounds.
"Presently, the whales are beine,‘
massacred to make minke food.
fertiliser, margarine, cosmetics,
whale steaks and lubricating oil,

Hindustan Times Correspondent

has been-in sesion here for more ‘

though there are cheap, plentiful

substitutes’ tor-all whale pro.
ducts.
Besides launching a massive

“Save The Whales” programme,
the Animal Welfare Institute has
urged the people of the world to
"boycott all products from Japan,
the Soviet Union and Norway -—-—
the major whaling nations.”

in one year alone, more than
30,000 blue whales died by the
whalers’ harpoons. The Japan-
ese whalers‘ greed for this large
est creature ever to inhabit the
earth only stooped when their
seven fleets could not find a sin;
gle blue whale to kill,” according

" to the institute.

The blue whale is now said to

\‘existin such few numbers scat-

tered across the seven sees that
scientists-fear it may be past
the point of saving.

The Convention of Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora (CITES), which

' minke whale too. Not till
. ago, the minke whale used to be

: “The only creatures on.
' that have bigger -~ and maybe, ,
than humans .-

‘
l

than a week, is discussing the pro-

tection of whales as a top-priority , '

item. But with what results, it )8

still not clear even as the con-
ference is due to wind up in two

dzrys. ‘

Once the blue whale-was gone,’
the attackers reportedly switch-’3'
ed over‘to the “humpback and
right whales”, then to the fin and
set whales, and, of late, tolthe
ong

thought of as one too’small for -
hunting.‘ Now the Whalers are

; said to be bagging 10,000 minke -

whales annually. “Moby Dick",-
the mighty sperm whale, issbetng .

decimated for its oil. . '. ~
Speaking of their intelligence .'

powers, Jacques Cousteau, noted-x.

French oceanographer, has said:
Earth

better -- brains

t .

 

 

N

are the Cetacea, the whales and
dolphins. Perhaps, they could
one day tell us something impor-
tant, but it is [unlikely that we
will hear it, because we are
coldly, efficiently and economical-
ly killing them off,”

' Speaking of their a onising exe-
cutions, Dr
“‘The present-day
lb weapon carrying an explosive
head which bursts generally in
the whale’s intestines, and the
Sight. of one of those creatures
pouring blood and gasping along,
on the surface, towing a 400-ton

poon rope, is pitifulp 3;

“So often an hour or more of’
torture is inflicted before, the?

agony ends in death. I have egpe. ;-

rienced a case of five hours'and'
nine harpoons needed to kill one
mother Blue Whale}: . '

M

Kisans to‘ld'to
" get united ' ,

Hindustan Times Correspondent

NEW DELHI, March 6 -- Janet-a3
S leader Raj Narain today asked
_ farmers not to suffer injustice cal-.
mly and be united to fight for their

rights.

He said those who suffered ln-;

justice '
courage it.

Mr Raj Narain was addressing a
organised by the
All-India Kisan Sammelan at Boat

' "' is speech, several bus-
~ally participants were
"a by the po-

" orders.

. V,

"kisan rally”,

a “tar h

, (31‘~ '

 

Harry Lil re. who had
. sailed as a whaling ship’s surgeon,

' has recorded:
hunting harpoon is a horrible 150-:

catching vessel by a heavy har _

 

' \

,THE HINDUSTAN TIMES SATURDAY MARCH 7 1981

 

MERE aim “to
,,SHAD|AJ.

. 1 Starring , .

 
   
 

r
i

-

' I AMOL PALEKAR
o '1" i ‘ RANJEETA

i .«

 

OBCVt‘M

' To ensure thatvou‘.
Centre works on .
Sundays too.

enjoy every moment
"‘-' 9 mm. - 3 pm. 3 ind“

 

 

of lt.Wooton'n Service
Call : 682065,683160,682813 : so

 

 

.____

 

tthout reststance only on-

 

 

 

 

 

Iiabetic patients - ,-  ~  .
for Instant convenience

..

-. Elaine- .4,-

..
.'.4' ,;,,...

     

 

       

posable. pl
““4 needles.

"able *




 

gt ' 511$" ASSOCIATIONS AND SOCIETIES
5" ’ THE WORLD ALMANAC QUESTIONNAIRE

Information for the next edition.

 

IMPORTANT - To insure proper listing, please return at earliest convenience to:
The World Almanac, Associations and Societies, 200 Park Ave., New York, NY 10166

 

Name of Organization ..............................

s“ . Ammd \Nel—Em inslrri'uic

 

Date Established: ...... [015 \ .......................

Natl. Headquarters: :P-HO .BW $55.0. . WOLSNVX . PM JDEC‘I. “1090.7

(street address, town, state and ZIP code)

Total Membership (living):

 

.des‘éwc. .S.‘\.€N9M€> .....

 

Name of President or Governing Official:
Name and Address of National Secretary: . .MQ'YJPVl.L. . C.’O.°.\<:€’. .....
Please indicate aims. Is membership Open or restricted to profession, birth, or 5

other criteria? ’ 2
guy {3 qkm-pm-qu ,Lduca‘dmnd Orzo-m\m~\viovx . 335ng I
\s *0 promo-k Mm wei‘Qoa-e OQOLK «wounds cmdt H “(Luce ‘HAe %

W "NARA W ‘Cenr ik-Q—KCA'CCX 0n MxMCAS ‘OV man.

Wm MC V\D vesswncxetms On memkitP.

LATEST POSSIBLE
RETURN DATE

MARZI

 

Furnished by: .

 

’a

 




 

I 4 [’7 f” ’ I“! ) “' .
(i/S/Y ‘14:, 91": j! {A} 7 L: 1.1:
3 4:1 f /
- i I?!
a. u ﬁfe: fry?”- (3
. I
~ I , ..... . A *- w
("’A’L’FORM‘A‘ N57“ v i E OF PLEUC a: FATRS

; .An AJFHJATE OF THE CieizxuoNt ecu: ES
226 WEST FooerLL BOULEXARD - P. O 80> IO ’2, ,. ,1 a
CLAREMONT. CALue-RMA. 9i 7“ .
TELEPHONE (714i 624 5212

 

Animal Welfare Institute
Attn: Ms. Christine Stevens,
P. O. Box 3650
ii’ashington, D. C.

President

20007

 

 

 

We would appreciate your help in compiling The United States and the Global

aEQUEST
rumination

ion

Environment: A Guide to American Organizations Concerned with International
Environmental Issues, the newest in a series of reference books on resource

 

problems that we have published since 1972.

Our book will be a i

revised and much expanded version of International Environ-

mental Issues: A Preliminary Resource Guide, published in 1977 by the Office

of International Activities of the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency.

W e u ant to ensure t hat your listing is accurate and complete.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Basic information

a. Is the name and address of your organization correct as shoum above?

If not, p ease correct.

b. Telephone number: ( 202 ) 337~2 332

c. Name and exact title of key staff person concerned with international
affairs; Christine Stevens, President

2. Publications. Please list below or provide a publications list or catalog.

3.. Periodical publications you issue (newsletters, journals, etc. ) that
include treatment of international issues, and how often they are issued
(sample copies would be very helpful):

information Renart Frequency: Quarterly
Frequency:
Frequency:

b. M no graphs (nooks, r- ports, etc. ) taat you gave issued Since 1972 that
relate to irtei na'irmnl environmenta precients —-- a representatre
4:3 eciien

if"e Eiii i;:. 35” {29F7 and 39:1), “Animals and freir Legal
Rights" (1974, 1976, 3.979)

 




 

 

R '5 R I - ----. -- '- m I -« ~-.‘ n av r‘-. q .
D. -~i1o:‘1.{>:~.:'2;;_::;: if;i_xlli.;:l'ei*:u).
a... 1 ,, A u '3 " '1 . n
“races Ebout Furs (l973 ans 19:0)
”T-j’hzzlac ERQJPQHC til—1:3? QY‘Q" [10,91‘
' ' ‘w ‘“’ "“‘ x I

 

 

Other Information Resources Available on International Enviromnental
Affairs (e. g. , special library; films; reference services):

see enclosed list of "Educational Materials"

 

Current International Projects. For each, please list the following informa-
tion (use additional snee ts if necessary)

a. Title of Project: Enoangered Species Handbook ..

Brief DESCTIPLIOH' e book oesigned for use by bioloov :e goers 22:25
and expand concern for e

i}
()1
£11 I)
“,1
in
1D
H
(D
01
’ﬂ
bx}
(D
0
H
fl)
U)

others to oevelop Knowledge

 

Person Responsible: Greta Nilsson

b. Title of Project: Ban on Commercial Keeling

 

Brief D970 CTlPt‘ion’ Distribution of information through literature
aévertisements and meoia on whales and whaling

 

Person Responsible: Lynne Hutchison

 

(3- Title Of PTC’lECtl Paoeooered Soecies and Animal Welfar e Estwork

 

 

 

Br1eM.D SCTHNNMT Coordinated and cooperative internati or nal action on
3? i Ml we fare and endenoered species issues through distrioution of
‘t n ' 'Nieil ”a o»:‘ ’o“ Arswir”h or; rcrtio‘rarior 2r meeti“%5
m'&;.w’;- J’LS' 1 ! «:13! :0; ’UL 51.. A1. 45 huw s“ ~k— v.3“ Evy...“ c..- i w "a; a- v. .,

Perso nIRespm isﬂﬂe: Frances Lipsoom

 

PLEASE REPLY BY MAY 4, 1981.

 

With your replyp, lease send us copies of brochures,
publica ions slists, annual; rseport, samples of periodicals,

 

and any other materials stir _ might be helpful to us in
de escribing your organi ation and its interrat1 oual activities.
for fur t1er infor ation aoouti his proj

 

—.~ ~~- -Mm...

ec t, contact
icy Tsumoto, Editor, at 714 62 5212 (call beti i'een

8:00 and 12:00 Pacific Time).

Many thanks for your help.

 




77%ﬂﬂ Lgﬂzwé A45 ZZﬂO/
MMLLOC QQﬂZ /7L/ 7( VKL/C/
ﬂ/ZZ? A692 ﬂZZ ZZZ/ZZZ [1/

,/ZZZ/(/47 ﬂ/mé/ /;9 “775/
XZ/OZOZL

 




La‘ ‘

1.4
World Book—Childcraft International, Inc. Merchandise Mart Plaza

A subsidiary of Field Enterprises, Inc. Chicago, Illinois 60654
Telephone: (312) 341-2424
Telex: 25-3328

 

April 2, 1981

 

Ms. Christine Stevens
President,

Animal Welfare Institute
P. 0. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

Thank you much for sending me the enclosed books. I found
them most informative, and most sad. Indeed, 'Animal Itights
and Welfare' has been a difficult article to work on in that
I must View photographs of how inhumane people are to animals.

Between Dr. Michael Fox, his associates, and some material from
photo agencies, we have this article well covered photographically,
from the draize test, to Temple Grandin's livestock designs, so

I have no Specific request for material from you.

Thank you very much for your willingness to help.

Sincerely,

 

Photographs Editor

kmk/lm
SI 82 Animal Rights
3 books

 




 

 

11.narch~1981

“Ms. Karen M. Koblik

Photograyha Edits:

world Book~Childcra£t Intarnational
MerchandiSe Mart Plaza

Chicage. Illinois 60654'

Dear.M3. Koblik.
In responaeto your letter cf Fabruary 24th._I am sending

you. under separate duvet. the fallawing pdbllcatians 6f the
Animal welfare Institute:‘

Camfoxtabla Quarters for Laboratory Animala

Facts About Furs

The Bird Business A Study 9f the Cammercial
Cage Bird Trade

 

as aMMM411£%uwf

If you will lock ever the illustrations.in each and letv
Vus know those'of which you would like t9 barrew ariginals, we i.
will be glad to lend them to you for publiaatian; '

Enclosed with this letter is a campilation of articles
whawing domestic animals injured by steel jaw leghod traps.
we have obtained the original photographs of some but not all
of these.

_ ‘ . t
Locking forward ta hearing fram you, I am

Sincerely,

Christine Stevena
President

 




 
  
 

v.81, mun m

    

"r. -.<.-wmz4'.-u-qws.--_ _ ‘

 

 

 

 

58222228 322828898388 58 38888 P58822288. ed.

P828»: .3. Pam-M28888 and 31822828825888 Papa-
888822188 53-8225: 88522. 52852888: E3. P822283 Pub-
25.2828. .23 0822288832,: 979. .999 822.. $3.59 '

3728 9228.522 2288 E92955}! 08885853828222 8‘2 2.88
2238-2822 9228282885 588882232 28' 9:82:88. 882222
9822.: 3222228». N882 28:52: 025828 352252282852):
P2828, 5999. 2399 2:222... 3599.

75:28 (25888588: 7528823" 8-: 92852.28. 5.517. 5.82.1882:
.2228 E M L281 22221.2: New ”Pork: Per-23822282:
53288819759955.2222 933’2‘;

52222822. 252222 8 522 9122822”: T528 38:22:22 8’2 8182':-
M2. {3.88. 222-888 0228.: 2.52258822522 85 {.3828-
21827523 Vfrﬁ8,1&§f&‘ 5422” ﬁjw' $1? 50.

722282822 2. “222228 19.2 2258282588, 7228 F228: '2':
‘2" .878 .52.""'"' P888888. 223.22.822- 222285822225: 2358-.
“PP “2-W- “79 15-9 PP. 228.

9222225225882 8228 1852.22222- 82': 7815852‘8.58?8221£3.
828222282 82.8 2.-. 2-..25’55NQ‘102’5? 5.52252” :2
5225825222222288 $728.28. 2 229 8.3822 88318.95:

282 8382288 P22 322.5 2:18 8228‘: “58232222 8223238... 88‘.
982.82.: 7822"“ N222.- 2‘82'12 P28222282, "15999-3
P 2.2.. 392?». 5:9

.58 5252182288 87 :88 9828828258. . R8888 2588
8822. 92.822.52.228. 0-8521: H0696? 2nsté'285588
P288... 5277 £5 :33 PP $7 25

5258858222: 2:222:88 8855-585 85:28:28 255885.588 A...
928.2822 522-... 2.22:2: N88 7822'; 22828-888 A2322-
{29:83:12.3 P8125288828. 225218229752". 32‘? 3352.. $5530.
(222828888 38.22.88 A 8. B}. 2

.2 932228888 822-22 (:85 8225225 93259537292953. 1.88228 H.
9222822883: New 21.2222: 3"88282 Press-8 5:28..
Egyﬁ.‘ 215 {If} , 41-22?

”2‘88 525828222 85’ 2228 7858888518. 52-82225! 2“
32.2:‘22325'28 nga: 52;: 53828: 1979 8.56 5.253.353 952.

55258252822282.5228: "57528 2.883 85 5129799571553".
2.282225 Kim-8. N822 22:22: 025828 2722222828223:
P2888, “2959 39-23 9.0-. $19 95

32 222282222 2:: P5228288 V858. 58 5...: ..
:2 2: 23-22828 2222228282232 P22;- 88. 979 PM pp
979 22:2 . 2:29.29 88:: .

'9
\f
2:.
72:28 9222 2222282222 92822522222 82 9883222822:
552-22232 5.28:: 8-88.88 QM‘WE: 22 928828588 N88-
52828:: {38:22: 2828' 51852282222252 P2888 2-9-39.
$2529 8;}.- 3812.90.

25%. (2222228228852 t8 N88288r chtam. 8.222 hon-,2
‘2‘. 2-2828 .7: 9822522885" C8252: 5.522222 2282828" 82
8822282228 P28222i'2979 3.92 9333:5235-1932:572-
52-82-2228 3'89 222882882288 3 .

7.8 3.828 2.82:5 P812832 8'5 78228 922128282288
98222285: 8 132228 5:02:22 222‘ 95852! 9525222588.
223822;: f: 5382272882. 9885222828 2252228882281ng-
52222 222.2222“,- P222222 :9 7.9 5.322 99' 8829
88.282. 989 .2 "2382;28:238-312. '

3.8282 5228832222828 2288 98838589. 932228118 New
32725:. Qufgﬂmﬂﬁ mfg $43

8238882228 58288 925222. P2858 32185285. (38m-
:2-2'58228. 939-29939313’5 572828. 39815. 34-? 53.0-- 5'35-
92885882 P2122282. {38322222228 2821.: 88882222
{9222822 {3. ' '88:...8-222 .

N ’
P52522588! and 5515822281 9855821228 2:25 9722:825-

W

9852288228 81 the US 2.512 99.198812 “2188270212:
Hastings. House P88988828. 2979.
$7998 .

98rr822't 593069 122 92182832. {3. 532228. 6221628.
England: Pergamcn. 1979. 919. > $2-

7522. 2 N28222:}! 822:5 P723588 88M 82‘ ‘58 2.528858%
82:5. {2882228 92.2235 5828558 8228 53888 9. Done-r.
mtsﬂﬁﬂigw 212.: 25225218285232 8! Illinois: Press
2979. 99-2 95-7-- 927'0 .

998258 9222282228828 882:! 91882222828882.

“"i-P‘tOiM 52128222828885 P8888 598888228 12".-
222 .2252:- " 2.222882" Tayaor 22:22.2 FKWECQS 521 1989.
£72; 53553.. L55

53888232 9818808: “3"‘118 2.8238822 82‘ 8 985822-
2:25. 32.52“”! 5.55399: EYNIPMQK‘N} (355228. 19.21.:
53'2'88'2288-82819, inc ., .2779 2129988., 9529.99.

291282822888 and 1518 1828558878 082182. David
5385222: 92882021, 5.1888298222582388 3 228822:
1922212288p2$29

(7822228228828 98322828 22:22 388222822229 A221-
81858. 948.828.9822. D. :3: Animal W85 5828 522-
3.521.513. 1917325333 £233.

 

 

828-8285 9222582828. 9578552288288. 0.5.9.: 821522282
22855828 122888228. 1979. 199 2:23.

 

7822272285883 822 798%. P8228; Qrgmﬁmﬁm 18:
5388228222522 Gﬁt‘ﬁfﬁsef‘wton 8228 9622 8588222882.
2979. :99 2322.

5922822232 8588888828222: “5888252 888 92885588
(Era-822,22. POW-’97., 8821 Environment 32:22:28, V82»-
82'2'28 9;: 8d. N22285:? ‘22-. H888; 82 81. MW York:
522582885 225818282. 5228.. 1999. 249 957-. 323.52).

595885882- 8228 N591: 782228828tm'8 928582' Pm-
888888. .5822 F. N28588:". N822 Ymk: Acaﬁeméc
P2852. £88 1979. 346 2223.. 339. ‘

92282822 :8: the Yew-22' 22799 822" Richard W:-
son. New York: P582": 2222: 59852158225229 Co. 5980.
282 pp. $42.99.

231382152222! 8'5 5335A. Pram-22522 :.P8rtugal and
.2882 s. 081288. 28285:?” 2... 8. 541885.: MIT
P2883, 9:77. 3232‘: 8.8.. $5.95. 1

928822232 888 Econ-8min Growth 5:": 5528
Uri-5288 928188 Eéward 5.. A1288. £38m
8228188. 2252333.: MIT Press. 1979. 2 9 pp.
3-22.59.

1.8882" @7195 52881288 88822 P282..." 8885229 (:1
358282282 6'13 C.W. Whit-8 and P9 P88 .232.
N828 “28252 Academic P2888, inc. “980 799
”$3., 343.

98558588: 7228 Fight 2988522222 2328215231. 588228

9222288825. New York: Athenaum. 3979.. 1522
313:2. $79.95. !

59828285 (3288812 988: 7518 0829185222288! 81
8 N828 “788528818932. Roger Hooks. New York:
5225888588 Pubisshéng 00.,1979 234 pp. $45

(3'82 Magnéﬂceﬁt Earth. N822 York: Rand
MON-3.5517, 1979. 191 pp., 93'}.

98188118221 Phizamphécaz P822823 "'5 57588822
Boyte. 8:1.MAStewart T'c: owa N 2.2.. “Wt-1221263.":
9 5208588 388925. 1990. 959.559.

"07 pp.. '

   
 

98228282285882'1881. 8211 F282 3581252. N88." 8222:
5-2 c222282P-28288mg Cr.- ‘29 9.0 21988.. 325

9882298 $8188tion 888' 82888828 922858--
ticsn. 022 i528 tnharltamm 8! 7282185288 95282-
882828. E. .2. 928819. 78288 0: Wi'ﬁsm' P285-
2888, 1990. 9‘: 2.2;)... $55.95.

7128 {52218518288 P02281888: 5825882222 8188: y
A. Pranks N8 2222821. 01228.: Univ-8258:: 850525:-
882228 P2888. “3999.. 2925 pp. $77.59.

A22 E22 22888825821 to 922285882 8822885228588.
J82: A888828 and 93212228 378881832. @Cﬁﬁfﬁit‘b‘jﬁhi.
228528228: 127 198523-85. 1979. 191: pp..9 932.2

22.822252258888888 of 5.88 82822188. 5983-29259.
88.. 2881282188 Padash 8! 85. 022221288225. P85
5888: 5). P8525855. 5989. “199 5357-. $29.95).

E28825828828. 75208232, P2882588 P.2- 52.82:-
itza 92.828 0.735852182192258 499 PP

128228880128 82221 T818288 in 98582288 8228
1885222850831. 821.. R8888! H. 988855. 9228822222.
Arm-888: (7232:: Press. 1979. $27.53

5.82828: 98828908, 9.2285 531119593, 8.8852222-
t188. 882.1 5.588198. 6.3888288: 12.8. N822; York:
Max-228.2542“. 1980. 224929 $21.55}.

7228 9119!ny 87 2528 9588225218. 92222828
2352882.. 5'2 Ne: 22 York: 93W P892588828. 7979.
2-4-9 ".28.. $39.

F2822: 8282128 28 08828.8. James 23 722.522.
N822 78282575182588 392:: "2828 “5999. 21988..

c «'2'- .2
2-5 22:51:55.2.

985822825 2922.2de 02': 9228223888. 52888.
5.82288882'8. 682225222888. 31888.: 9825288822.
1980. 9527-:- PP-

9882222 722221220502"; §N§3975d351g 92282223
82222222588 89 Dr. Hicshard H553 551828522828":
0.413.: -..1.,\""‘” 2798’?“ 121225122288. 22229. . :53": 88..
$49.

9822282222282 1528 Fut222'2:---th8 8852' 1.8;?-
acy “2585212228 50" 88582288 3-228 22-... "2:28-58gy
Ame-:- 5 .2222 Astronautlcaﬁ 92232232,. 98-": 495888:
Univmt, 1950. 218 pp. $29.

565813919, 5730113599,.95‘563 (388528228288; (22851—
2822 Nucaear Power 5:": the 5.22252 288 282228
1989-1974."?: 8.82288 L. 08188318 3531.5327597. 238.:
Wt. 81221892 P2888, 1979. 259 88., 9‘57.

{78881822288222 8nd 532518822128 05 2.128 N88588:
Fatwa-r P288222 282": 8 08222528282528. Peter
881.888. 022.821.225dg8. 181888.: 98215 898-2. 1. 979
325 88.

278922222 2288 1828288228 8228 N077- 97582282":
From Mathematics 28 92-8 Peanut-88288
82‘ 2.528 and 1988552. 52828 J. 21852228. 2.2818288.
Masag M5"? 172885. 193.9. 5.23:" 99-. $59.95 '

"8-8182 P828228 Nucﬂeaar: 0528825228 55228282 Pt;-
32.22822. Secmtaria: 18: F8828 55288588. Ste-8:2
he! :2 5882:1822. New Y‘s-2'52: P62882808, 5999.
259 8.8.. $34.09-

9812821 5.3888888 That Changed Ania-25':
Robert 55:". 8282222222 St. Joseph, Mo.: 1882825828
23885822 81 Agricultural Englmaars. 15-379. 83;..-
PP-

 

 

 

2‘2"»321‘U2/ 2222' 51 19-97

 

9735335095

    
    

"”""-'Vf\u.“r'?r'j"45*¥fn 2-5;;

. .95? V'ZF‘vmgngI/Mrhm

 




0V 4.
. A i.‘
a; e, . 5

33W“ Regggwﬁ .

 

 

 

 

 

 

f‘ ',
}

3.525.222.5252 5:12.22 23225535222252 in Emma Fammaga. 22d,
532225352 .5 P525 222222525230 25226 K222252222r25mo$ 5321;72an
2230;202:5223. {2222;552:29525. 520352.2245: 5:}. 52.22.3222 Put».
5555152255.} {322222;5322y. mm. 309 pp... 2.43533 ‘ 3

Wm 5.2253252: mm E22222; 5322225252125251222225 225' 2:22:22.
52252525232 {5529;223:253 53253522522222: 822 Ema-w. John
Gramzam $222523}. N22222: Yam: ”152.2225 52222222222555;
Press. 225.1} .22" 33:2. 12.25253.

Thea ammm 2522:2232 :2? 22:52:22. M). 5.2222632:
and 233.52% Lakshétz. 5232:2225 2502252.: Peygaman

was»: WM

. m ﬁn?" .. "- k“ l .. g .
Exam. 2.2.22.5. $132? $2153.. ‘ .29.! .

52122025222522.2222; £212 55122222525335: 15222 E52023: 2:25 925.5252»
MQA’EEQ. Amman. 0222.2. ﬂaws-2.2.2.252): of 532:52:
522mm $26222 ‘5 5.5?123. $222 52p. $523232).

52522222351252 Emma Emigration}. Wm 2255225 2‘!
22212222.. .25.:é‘s'zg-z5 59212523242252.1221. 0x052. E22§giaa2xftz (‘30-
52525522? 222.225.24.22. 22.2252. 256.2 pp. 232:2 ‘
Umwhﬂm 2252225 222.522.22.25; Aﬁsaim. F~5.éc5mrd_ E:
.ﬂzmﬂﬁﬁdﬁﬂ. 2.5.1.25: Waﬁwémmom Unzwmiw c525
242.225.52323322222 925225. 55286. 35522 1.252.. 3514.955.

Eagmmm 952.21.225.23 25M Tammiogy. ed.

5325.222 .5. “5222523525. New 22:22.25: Fiénum. 152559. 683

6. ‘ ‘3' ‘ [.3 '3
g};u’ .2 1; 53.53%; 9 Huge"

52’: 53222222522222 22:25 2M Eimmmmn. 5722;212:222 Emu
$25-22. .. 122222535275. 2322555.: HQQVE? insmuﬁon
Erma. “5525259 1.33 2223., W125.

Mummzi E552522r2w Agapémmmns Seaman A.
52:22:22.5: 522552;;22225252, New York: Harwood Asa»
Emma P25t255$5222r5. quaﬂariy. 97 552.2... 3325.0.
2522.5;252c2‘5225. 5325.22.02: 5A 8.. E).

52:15:22.2“: 22m (251250225223 Egg-22222252222. Lucile H.
mkway. 2252.52.22 ’22.:2252: Mademm 5922:2522. £222.12,
“f9. 2‘15 $22.12., 557.2%.

532.2
‘5 9

255252 25222522232 :35 51M MIEsmm. 51.222222] C.
K22; Aw Emir: 5320222252. $51552. 225.2153 pp. 352335.

5.252255222222525223; 'T‘hs: 55.22255 :22 {Sartaimty.
”.1252. 22322222. 522352225: ”York: Qxford 5.552221622525232
5475523523. 19340. 23223362 5.732).. $19.95..

352.2222222225232 in Phyaécs 21:558. 5 a. 52. £2.15 New
‘2’022'52: 052.522.2223 Unmarasty Press. 1379, 2552}: m2.
55; 2% 513‘ $223.59 with. ‘

T422522 Engﬁnwring 1222522252293 05 82222553212252
22222232 5.252.225232. m5. 2222222225222 55. S‘iapsawn. New
5252;222:252, ﬂown; ”2.1.2252: Einémrsr‘ty Wags. 125550.
33% 2:23.12. $222.20

A mmmx to 2222:5532” Eeactors. Anthony
’22“. New, .52“. Berkeizay. Ola-2535.: Urr'werséz‘ry (21
53:35:55,252“: P52225252 2979. 3522 9229.. $255 22:502. ..
Ecmzw. $32335 gammopnd. ' a

222:. 5.2222: 2222:! 5352535123; :2! T222236: 85252353522222
(2222.22.25.22: A £33m Study of may! «351292222222.
3552:2523 U. {Mame-2r. Eéaiiimoye, Md; Johns Harp-
25522.2. Uméyamﬁfy 23.15.2523. 29292. $12.50 $512222-
m~22e:. $24535 raspy“ p f 2 '

53.12: m: Mwhinéng E2223 Weiding. Rykaim. $221:er
E22224: ngamon, 12.92%}. E221.

55232222212252 552152.22 35w. Paolo Maﬁeé. Cam:-
t‘dmp 2.25:2..223 MET 23mm. 1980.. 3252 p52. $25.

942.52.125-32222 #:2522222. Soiwnbra. Md: Gemsraé
22223-2: Cmpomﬁwa.

 

i
}

ﬁaﬂwagm :2! 5522.2 mm. 0.6. Nack. ﬂew York:

Hastings Hausa Publishers, 1979. .307 pp..‘

$192.95. 1‘ . .
Current lasues in Energy. (3. Starr“. 022.56%.-
Engmnd: F‘ergae‘non. 192’9. £10. , , g
The Héstory and Philoaoghy at “22122050932.
m2. George Bugliarello arid {Bean 8. Donor.
mampaign. “5.: Universéiy 05‘ éifémss Press.
mm. 3224 52253.. $17.50.

22295222 Armaments and almr'nwrmnt.
szockhoezm Inmmationm Mace Research In:
$555th. London: Tay5or ans“: Francm 1.211.. 1980.
524 pp... £21.50.

2322232352232 Esteem: ”Mm Legaay ’0? a Eciem
2.5225. 15322322555 Upset. Eﬁgiewaocf (355525. N.J.:
Fres‘mcewHaH, Inca. 197225. 3653 pp" $25.95:

Whommmsz and the lmpiicmo 02:592. ﬂavld
thm. Boston. Mass; Routéocéga £5: Kegan
Paul. 224 2353., $25.

 

 

 

wwwam Ouaero 152.252 Laboraﬁory Aniw
5222555. Wmmngton, 0.6.: Animal Weﬂam In:
22.552“ 5979. 108 pp.

 

Ways-52.2525 are-d {Mcemﬁal Eajzﬁﬁormg :25 Enum-
mmms 522255113“. Washéragton, (12.0.: Animal’s
Weifara Enstituta. 1979. 195 m2. '

ﬁmhmmgy on T515855. Paris: Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Dovaﬁopmem.
AWE. 122 pp.

Energy Managwmmm: Theory and Emcﬁce
{Energy Power. arid Environmem $655553. Vol-
5.522229 8). ed. Hawk: W. Henry at at. NEW York:
52.5mm! Qekker. 5526., 19220. 24252“ 57222., $92.,

Madium and 54555252 Temmmﬁme 2152:5252.» Fro»
5359832883. .1222": F. Maid-er. New York: Amtwmic
Press. 5523.. 2972?}. 3423 952., $33.

5.5er for rho Year 20%. ed. Rimlarcﬁ Wil-

smn. New York: Ptenum 22522222325229 052.. 1.985.}. 2

401 pp.. $22.50.

A CEI’AWEV of DNA. Franklin H. Portugaé and

.2225: S. Cohen. Cambridge, Mama; MW

MESS, 1977. 3841 pp., $6.595.

E2~2ergy arid Emmmic ﬁrmwﬁh in Was
2222522552 Swiss. Edward 5.. Men. Cam»
t2:223g222. Mass: MIT Prams, 153279. 2062‘ m2,

(5‘23") 8:30.

‘96:..62 .9; .

Earsrxr arsed Electron Beam Programing or
MEAErials. ed. CAN. White 5222:! ES. Peeroy.
2.22. York: Academic Frags. 5:20., 1980. 769
$2212.. $240. '

“Eacéidmg: The Fight Against Gravity. Mario
532152136321 New York: Aiheneum, 19%. 152
51.25:... $10.95.

52222222225 Gaa‘ay $123; The; [59259502222222.2222 of
3 59252922 Tachnmogy. Roger Frocks. New York:
Néchofas Publishéng Co- 29723‘. 234 539.. $45.

0:22 Magniﬁcent Emil-2. New York: Rand
McNaﬁy, 19%. ‘59? p52. $35.

32225233532223 Phiiomphiw! F’apws 2:2? Robert
30355252. 22d. MA. Szewart. Totowa, NJ“: Barnes
‘8. Nasbénss Eooks, 522855. $19.55).

   

Fatwa 5212129292232. Ed. F522;: M35354. NEW 2:522:
522mm: Puoiwhing 23:12.. 3930.. 21E 5252.. $25.

Eomaﬁs 8259222502! 25222225 Adapt!” Ewimm
“on, on the wharlimm a? Amulrm 21:52“:
scram. E. .5. Emma. Taromo; 22552222522225-2222..5-
38623. 198172. 91 5:29., $25.95..

The EBEmMma 52:25:22522522: WEE-£52532. Kenny
A. Franks. Norman, 05:522.: University :25 5125:5273.-
homﬁ 53588.23. WEE. 253-55 51225.. $175121}.

A122 Ingrmﬁuwm to 5222355222522 5.525252522232252”.
Jean Audouze and Syn-23.22 Vaasclair. Darsﬁrmht.
Houand: D. Reidel. AWE. 25554 5.222., $39.55.}.

Raminiscancas of Loss Mamas, 1943345522152...
825. Lawrence: Eadash at 2.2!. Dordremm. H2622:
land: 0. Reideﬁ. 593.0. 1323 2252.. $253.50.

Ewaﬁmmm, ‘TMmy. Fromm. 5-3.5... Km)»:
Him. Boats/2n: D. Reizﬁol. 1980. 4.229 pp.

Handboom and Tahwa 521 Emgnm Md
Y22chnn2ogy. ad. Russel 52-5. P0222955. Phoenix.
Arm-0.2222: Oryx From. 15579. $27.56.,

Mamas: Opermkdon, Equipment 2222;222:225
55cm, and Dwign. Qohﬁwnt. 522:2. M5222 21:525.:
Mchw-Hill, 1980. 2252 2252.. $21M.

The History 05 the: Mamhim. Eigvam
Strandh. Maw York: AEW Pubﬂahera, AWE.
240 pp. $35.

From Moms :22 052325252. Jamm E. ‘frsaf'éi.
New York: Chamaa 920255322222’5. 1558562. 2253 23:2,,

$12.95.

8952522222222: 8222235522252 an Emrw.®aﬁ. 2-5222“
Landmarg. Cambridge, 52:58:23.: 8955522222822.
1980.219 r2512.

Emmy Fecﬁmé‘ogy: Expanding Emmy
3525295522222. 2355. Dr. Ric-ham? H565. Washington.
{3.0.x (Em-2532225222322? 5.225552222122252. ‘25:: 1525.55 5.2.2.2..
$42..

R23222em§3w 22w Euauwmthe Awrﬁﬂo L529» -

aw. Volumé 5L2 Somme and Tochnoéagy.
Amsmztan Aatronautmm Emit-2w. $22.22 Wage}:
Unix/257252. 1980. 2'58 3:29.. $25.

3.225222222522222. 2335555522, 22222.5 (3223:2852z2womﬁ 2355.255-
érm 5252223522322 E22229: 821 that; 3.552522225 $222222”,
19423-25 E74. Steven L. De! $2322.50. EKG-5.55685. (’30.:
Wastvéwz 532.253, 19?9. 259 5:29.. 311?“.

{2.2222225692225332 and 522525555292: of 23222 52522225225222
Warm 832352225222: A sompamntiéwa. Patty
GEL-322:2. Cmrmrédgo. Mass: 835352252522. 5555.782.
R

025 {.2

John wan Neumann 22nd Norma"! 25552222222:
From Mawomaﬁcs to 252.22 ‘5'ochrzo5ogm;
oz? L552: and Death. Steve :5. Moms. 5.552252222222222,
N.” 22:55.; AMT 5326323. 1980. 547 pp... 33159.95.

Soiar ‘5‘35'2222522 Numear: Ekcmséﬁg M222.” Flu:
tum. Secretariat for 232252er 5222:5292. 55322322523»
hoim, 32222362312. New “255225;: 53322352222022. "52:589.
250 22212.. $34.00..

Sever: Sim-cad” That Changeaﬁ #:5225325“.
Robert E. Stawan. St. Jmseph. Mo; {2222222532152
Society of Agricuituraﬁ Enginmrs. 1W“? 433
95>-

 

 

 

M a re £32 .42”: 52 2'25 ‘5 $5555"!

 

FUSE-QM

‘.

m

 

 

 

 

 




 

The Institutions Press, Inc. I | a 440 Park Avenue South, New York, NY. 10016 212/532-0367

February 16, 1981

Ms. Christine Stevens
President

Animal welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650

washington D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

As you recall, the Animal welfare Institute was listed in
the recent New York edition of The Guide to Gifts and Bequests.

we are now preparing our second California edition of the
Guide. The new edition appears to be gaining even greater acceptance
than the first one, published in 1978. (A list of some early
subscribers is attached.)

Since you may wish to be listed in this new California edition,
materials are being sent to you under separate cover. I assume
that you still have an office c0py of the Guide in which your
organization appeared. If not, please let me know and I will send
you another copy.

Sincerely yours,

/

Carleton S. Tritt
President

CSTzss

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650, Washington D C 20007 (202 '
. ’ - - )337-2 - '

proﬁt, charltable, educational organization foundeiginﬁggitl’deritdeiizgstlferegag r2103:
includi ' . . 1‘ animal welfare books
Facts AIZgO ggzzril': 1%,?! The” Legal Rights (215 Pp), Humane Biology Proﬁgccitsnggguags
libraries teachers h pp) and Provides these and other publications free on requesltiltd
animals.,Conducts’ edumane soc1et1es, veterinarians and others for use in protectin
endangered species- “0313101131 campalgns 13? prevent extinction of whales and otheg
abuses in the t t, wor S for a ban on painful trapping devices and for an end t

rea ment of laboratory animals and animals raised on factory farmsO

 

Operates with a low overhe ' '
ad. F - ~ -
funds to expand programs, 1nanc1al needs. contributlons, bequests and memorial

 




 

\‘3

'. 1%

Medical Research Council .

 

MRC Laboratory Animals Centre
Medical Research Council Laboratories
Woodmansterne Road, Carshalton
Surrey SM5 4EF

telephone 01-643 8000
telegrams Laban Carshalton Surrey

reference Int/Ulf/LJN 20th January, 1981.

   

Leon Bernstein, PhD, BSc, MRCS,
Consultant in Physiology,

Animal Welfare Institute, . Assn .
13.0. Box 3650, UK) l 6 hum-’1
Washington, DC. 20007, .. .

U. S.A.

Dear Dr. Bernstein,

Very many thanks for your letter of 11th January last
together with a COpy of your publication "Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory Animals". This arrived this morning and I will certainly
eventually get round to sending you my opinion of it. I am currently
rather busy writing a couple of chapters for the next edition of the
UFAW Handbook so there may be some delay in getting back to you
but I will do so in time.

With best wishes.

Yours since rely,

W

G. Clough.

 

 




 

 

12 February 1981.

Ecology Center of Southern California
P.O. Box 35473 '
Loo Angelou. california 90035

Dear Sir:

Thank you for your invitation to submit information about
our organization. I have enclosed a listing-of the sauce»
tional materials that we offer. Hﬂbwould be happy to provide
you with copies of any of the publications you are interested
in. '

By the way. we are receiving two copies of “The Compendium
Newsletter.“

'Sincerely,

Cynthia Loo Stokes
Publications secretary

 




    
   

‘il r,

N, 1
, 1' .
.. 5'“ W
F :4 i a
W35. Wad
z"l 4:

    

TENSlON (

TERMINAL
Hospilcg) Iii
no
N W. H’-
Content
ernment’s
ture dire<
TEXT-book 1
Characters

erature. l
Clear-mgr.
0mm on
D C 20425
The iten
t e most :'
and reliabl
odologies t
ties. older
textbooks :
on children
TILES in inter
rannc tile. .'
Tile cqunc1
N J 08040
‘ is roi

ouse. 1
of tile fo

r

- tion-wide lie
How-to-do-it :4
or how to i’

. 4:“
3.4,. “Fig {(3. {“5 if if f’x ‘ :1»;- if‘ ,
‘ {’5- rl‘ ii» 5‘11!!! 3 $3; ”3? 5" ~* f ’&2 a}
.\| \2“; J: (p , :1 . ‘M .ﬁ 1 «J; 1., .3
y K; P

p g

ublication. .- reView
p ld appreciate your sending us
We wou

' u may
d material yo ‘ts
. ew paper'b9un - ians of 1
°°ples 0ft:2{ 2e may apprise llbrar .
issue 80 .4 “ ‘

availability. .
0 Thank you for your cooperation.

The.H.W. Wilson Company

' e
iver51ty Avenu
gggng? New York 10452

Katherine R. Barnes.

ditor . _
gertical File Index

a- we travel and entertainment
duties. and family obligations and a career.

W11 'CUHIIdeﬁl-é‘é:

 

rf t h t 1 tall étndtefcfé'

ency unde 00. or ow 0 ns _ -
r c e floor iyourself 8p 1] col il 77 Tile WATER
council of Am no 130:: 326 Prmcet n N J _.«Se_a also
08540 25% senld dpaymegt Witt}; rdt l tti g Drinking water

e ncu es su ace ps. 005. 36 n WATER-color paintin
\& TogllzeMAiﬁggd gr outing. Creative watercolourg techn
>4 Toolmakers and diemaker 85'

5. (Occupational brief

60) 4p '80 Chronicle guidance publications Mo—

, ravia N Y 13118 $1.50 send payment with order
3' TRANSPORTATION planning

. England~Citizen participation
Route causes: a' guide to participation in DUb'
lic transport plans. by John Abbiss and Les
, Lumsdon. 39p ’79 Renouf USA inc Old Post
‘5. rd Brookfield Vt 05036 $3.15 send payment
. '5’“. ‘3 With order

li t t l ni simple termsdtheupub-

c ranspor pan ng procedure an on mes
a way of approaching local authorities. While
it is Written for the British reader. the NO-
c may be applied by others.
TRIAL practice

66 also

Defense (criminal procedure)

UNITED STATES

Emigration and immigration

Should US. immigration policy be changed?

John Charles Daly. moderat . (AEI forum

41) 30p ’ 0 m enterprise inst for 1311th

golicy res 1150 17th st N W. Washington D C
003618.75 send payment With order

oru une 2. 1980 considered
ghether the US. 'gration '
e

pol)

made more humane. without sacrificing na-

tional interests. The ' uded q
lens. refugees from oppressed

countries and help 1' other countries and

international organizations.

Federal information o

enters—Directories
Federal information centers. 8p nd Nat audio-
vsual can er Gen services adm section]
PC Washington D C 20409 free
Federal informa on centers answer ques-
tions on rederal government or help You find
the right office for the answer. They also 01’-
er government publications on a number of
useful tomes. Ad resses and telephone num-
bers are given. .
- Military policy
US. defense: what can we afford? John Charles
Daly. moderator. (AEI forum 42) 36p '80 Am
etntgprise inst fo
s

r public policv res 1150 17th
D C 2003

6 $3.75 send
the panelists

. as
payment with order
In a forum held June 3. I
discuss problems t e cost .
- personnel. role erica’s allies.
the effect of inflation. cost overruas. and Wea-
ponry requirements.

 

iques. by John Block-
Leisure arts 7) 32 col il '80 Tapl'
pub co 132 W 22d St N g’ 10011 mm
Book d anions

$2.60
. ’ rocesses and com-
bmations to pr uce speci c
tages demonstration" paintings

s o
analyzed.
Laying a w ash. b Leslie Vi’orth.
4) 32p col i1 ’8 Taplinger pub.
co 132 W 22d st N Yslhoon stszd trati
are own y em on
in prOgiessive stages. Ons
and sky in watercolour. by Leslie
. (leisure arts 8) 31p 0 il '80 Taplinger
pub co 132 W 22d. st N Y 10%‘111 $2.50
k adwce h to capture the
atom patterns of the sea in

by Leslie W .
ll '80 Ta. lin r ub
N Y 10011 32.50 p ge p

_ materials and tech-
y Slx demonstration paint-
illustrations

ballistic mlssile ham
WlLDLlFE rescue

First aid and care of small amm' als. by Ernest
P. Walker ed 53p ii ' 0 '

 

. 2d Animal Welfare

inst 1133;; 36501 Yi'asgington Bra 20007 3(21

00 exp ains e care. eedmg an re-a
habilitation of wildlife: animals. birds. 1' -
tiles. b? l amphibians. It; pointslout 1:
ya us. a o ope can earn
umane attitudes throughmcari for animals-
at home or in the classroom. ng

N

Employment

See also

Vocational gui

WOOD as fuel

St “.2234.
WORK

See also

Job satisfaction

WORLD economi

WORLD war.

dance for women

cs. See Economic policy
1939-1945

Film catalogs
WW II'

. outstanding documen
duced b the US. government.
il ’80 at audiovisual rcen

adm Ref section/PC W
free

Folder lists films an?!
able for sale.

DTO'

tar-y films
1942-1946. ‘unp
n Bel—V C88
ashington D C 20409
videocassettes" avail-




 

16 July 1981

Ha. Charlotte Davis

F*sﬁ THINGs Publications

133 Fifth‘hvenue. 6th Floor,
New York. New York 10003

 

Dear Ms . Davis,

1 I would like to make one change in our list of materials
for FREE THINGS for Teachers. We would like to regove Humane
ggglggz Projects since it will soon be out of print and in its
plaCe offer an important bow publication. specifically designed' '
for teachers, entitled “Endangered species Handbook. A Guide to
the Humane Treatment and ConservatiOn of Vanishing Wildlife.”
This book is currently in the research~atage so I can't send
you a copy. but I can give you a brief description of the
topics it will cover. It will include chapters on vanishing.
wildlife: the global situation: unlearned lessons from the
past: vabuse of the land. commercial exploitation. persecution
and overhunting. unintended casualties from chemical pollution:
North America's threatened wildlife. including a comprehensive
examination of state endangered species programs: projects
through which individuals can learn about and aid endangered
species. And, finally. there will be a chapter on state and
federal legislation and international treaties. The book will
be available December 1981 quaanuary 1982. 4

If you would make this one change in our list of free
materials. then I think everything is set. Thank you.

Sincerely,

' Cynthia Stokes
Publications Secretary

 




 

 

FrceIhingspubliCGtims

30 June 1981

Cynthia Stokes
Publications Secretary
Animal Welfare Institute
PO Box 3650

Washington, DC 20007

Dear Ms. Stokes:
Thank you for your quick response to my inquiry.
Please send us a single copy of the following items:

~ First Aid and Care of Small Animals
« Humane Biology Projects
You and Your Dog
Kittens and Cats
x Good Kind Lion
a A Whale of a Friend
a A Letter from a Whale
‘“ How to Liven up Your Classroom with a Pod of Whales
~- Whale Flyer and Poster

Thank you.

Sincerely,

aha/{TIL $~m

Charibtte Davis

 

 

3; Fifth Avenue, 0th “00L NewV0rk,NY 10003

 

 

 




We are preparing a publication on valuable free
[Wm "mu-~Wi: ”-‘W'w.

things ($2.00 or under){for teachers. The book will be
\ﬁ...‘

umW‘m . ”.mr'”

published by G. P. Putnam in themspring of 1982 and
a o u o u ”A n -
Will receive national distribution. If your organization
has anything that could be included, please notify us
immediately. Thank you.
Charlotte Davis
Free Things Publications

133 Fifth Avenue, 6th floor
New York, NY lOOﬂg

 




Isaiah “mugs ‘. x '.

us am} 12°

MM” Nd Me. [ms‘h-f-ua‘t
0 3‘94 30(0
W¢S Maize-K) b C. .1050?

© USPS 1981

 




 

 

26 Jane 1981

Mo. Charlotte Davioz

Free Things Publications
133 Fifth Avonno, 6th Floor
ﬂow York, new York 10003

Dear Ms. Davis,

The following is a list of froo items wo offer to
teachers: onfortonotely we aro not able to supply those
materials free of charge to studoot teachers. ﬁigglg
gogggg,aro free to teachers:

First Aid and Care of Small.AniQals

Humane Biology Projects

You and Your Dog

Kittono and Cato

Good Kind Lion ‘

A Whalo of a Friond

A Letter from a Whale

How to Liven Up‘Yoor Classroom with
a Pod of Whales

Whale flyer ¢fo<a~

Enclosed is a listing which gives descriptions of

each of these publications. We would be happy to provide
you with samples of any of those materials.

sincerely.

icynthia Stokes
Publications Secretary

 




 

2 April 1981

Ha. Jean manque- .

.Managing Editor FREEBIES

P.0t Box 5777 .

1387 School House Road

Santa Barbera.-California 93108

Dear Ms. Mangus.

Thank you for your letter of March 19 regarding our materials
to be listed in-FREEBIES. We still offer the three items listed
on the Press Request. . '

In the Teachers category you might want to include: “How to

‘Liven Up‘Your Classroom with a Pod of Whales" and “A Letter from
a Whale.” for which there is no charge. '

Sincerely.

Cindy Stokes
Publications Secfetary

Enclosures

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

March 19, 1981

Sheryl Sternenberg
Animal Welfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Sheryl:

Enclosed is a xerox copy of a PRESS REQUEST card that you had
returned to us quite some time ago. I am going through my files

to update the material, and, hopefully, to get it into FREEBIES

in a more timely and systematic fashion. You had also included

in your mailing to me a piece called "A Whale of a Friend" and your
"Educational Materials” list.

I hope you will forgﬁve me for not getting your material into the

magazine sooner, butgwe still do want to use it in a future issue.
You did not indicatexan expiration date on the materials you sent’
so I Wanted to write to doublecheck.

If you still have these materials and/or new ones that you think
would be of interest to our readers, i.e. we now have special
departments for Pets, Kids, and Teachers in which your materials
would probably fall, please complete the PRESS REQUEST cards enclosed
and return them to me with the materials.

If I can be of any further assistance, please let me know.

Sincerely,

Ia

% n Mangus
¥;naging Editor

     

Jlela

P.O. Box 5777 0 1387 School House Road 0 Santa Barbara, CA 93108 0 (805) 969-7192

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

   

    

    
 

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

? V 2.1‘ é I ”.s

,. mammaam '3?

: bligh‘i‘lerli‘ ..

‘» 5/

.4; . DATE /‘3:

E: Please ﬁll out and return this card along with the free material. _ {,3
Q "Wt ‘ : i
Free product/material title $763312 {<4 ﬂail] / (DH; fii '19: A333) i” £25355; YAAA " Hill's. AME?
r" , I . _._.....__,., . ,. 2

AA When available Inf-A1291??? {141% 1/ (J Gfiét good through” 'j:\“
E Address material requests to: :f' 1' Al MQ/ Ail”? 1' AAA’L l...,...---:£._ £52.... Ki]?! -:.2"::’ in}: ......

9'; - 11:3 rt) {’7 (“if t :9 MW” we} 2 9 .w :-_....-.,..._.._._,......_..:..,_......

3 C 4.2;? J21.» [its A1313 J. Lil L £213 Am A 5%”

:EA' n-.. , ~2 {El/Far? .w . . ‘ ' .,

g A. osstage $1 handling charge: &%.};-..¢ {3 NONE; o SASE s D Na 0 Envelope Size ::_.__:-_.._..__

Sta {Distribution limitations, if any: -m . -

A“ AUTHCAhiZED av $1.3: «A “(AA {AA/“j AA‘L/sswnx’z AA? __ A/C & Phone cfAWAACA 2"”

’3 “‘1" "r”

3; PO. Box Y 9 .210 W. Ere/La Guerra 0 Santa Barber: CA 93102 G (805) 9‘" 54832- AA“ 3396;?“

A

-s§|r photo by Genre: arms:
The "30-foot, 7-lon gray whale used Koehler's dinghy as a toy and.
allOwed himself to be pelted and scratched. Naturalists are battled hy'
the behavior of the affable gray whale oil the Mexican coast.

’i‘iEli‘S PLAYFUL GIANT wouldn't be easy to house train, but Nacho
the whae made history when he sought a friend and found it in

Joli n Koehler, captain of a whale-watching

ship out of San. Diego.

 

An ocean gun/ii and in An ploy to stile“ At a AAA AAA ii’mﬁlm’lldg

13y Gannon BRYANT
Star associate travel editor

SAN IGNACIO LAGOON, Monica —- The in st
friendly encounter between whale and human

ever I e c o r d e d took place this week A’

young, 30loot. seven- -ton gray whale dubbed
Nacho made history by seeking out the: com-
paimcf man, using a rubber dinghy as a play-

tahiig. and allowing himself to be patted and
enriched

Neva before in the saga of ocean research,
natru'alists believe, has a wild whale deliber-
any, come seeking human companions hip and

hale experts are bafﬂed by his behawoi.

He’ll grow to 45 feet

. “The young whale -— who will grow to a
, length of 45 to 50 feet and an estimated weight
oi til, to 35 tons-appeared beside our whale-

watéiiing ship, Salado 85, late Monday alter-
.noon-and stayed with us for the next 24 hours.

.. The encounter took place in this lagoon on
the‘west coast oi Mexico’s llsaja California
Peninsula where thousands o. gray whales

spend the winter after swimming 5. 030 miles
from their summer range in the Arctic. '

The Salado, berthed in San Diego, brings
peonle down here on six- -day whale viewing ex-
pcditions but no one aboard had ever seen any-
thinglilte this. '

Not only did Nacho long for company, he
was so persistent at one point that the ship had
to move to allow passengers to go off in the
rubber dinghies to watch other whales. _

Estima ed to be 2 years old and to weigh
nearly as much as two full grown elephants, he
played like a boisterous younr‘ster, rolling and
splashing and diving, nudging and butting the
raft and obviously enjoying the human atten-
tion.

At frequent intervals he would suspend
himself 1n a vertical position and slide his giant
head from the water to see what his audience
was doing and to be scratched and petted.

At no time did he make any aggressive
move. In fact, his every action was surprisingly
gentle, moving his gigantic body only inches at
a time when being handled by humans.

He appeared beside the ship in the after.
noon while the three dinghies were away from

the ship and played abet. t the hull {on an hour,
once seizing the anchor rope in his mouth and
starting to tow it away.

Then the dinghies retuined and he went oil
to meet them. .

He followed the rubber craft back to the
ship nd then apparently enchanted by the tcx-
lure of the maﬁa, began nuzzling and playing
around one that had been trailed lrom th e
stern.

Bounced it on his nose

lie pushed it and rubbed it, bounced it on
his nose. lifted it on his back, dove beneath it
and generally acted like a mammoth pup with
a new toy. ‘

Periodically he would slide his great head
from the sea to allow aiejet of water from the
stern of the Salado to play on his face cr let the
ship 5 33 passengers stroke 11 1 s nose and
scratch his cheeks.

The evening performance went on-until 9

OVGI‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

Dear Freebie Supplier:

I have enclosed for your review a recent copy of
FREEBIES Magazine. This publication is a monthly, paid
subscription magazine ($6/year), which reports on items
available to the general public for free (other than
self-addressed stamped envelope or postage and handling
charges up to $1.00).

If FREEBIES would be useful in promOting your program,
please send us a sample of the material(s) liSted below
so that we can evaluate it for inclusion in an upcoming
issue. It would help us if you could give us at least
6 months time in which to schedule mention of your item'
in FREEBIES. We estimate that suppliers will receive
anywhere from lOO—SOO responses from mention in the magazine.

Please complete and return the enclosed PRESS REQUEST
card along with your material as soon as possible. When your
item is mentioned in FREEBIES, you will receive a copy of
that particular issue.

Sincerely,

   

ean Mangus
anaging Editor

PLEASE SEND THE FOLLOWING MATERIAL

 

 

 

 

 

 

P.O. Box 5777 O 1387 School House Rd. 0 Santa Barbara, CA 93108 O (805) 969-7192

 

 




 

 

 

*Frazzled by the pressure of Income tax deadlines?
Dlscover how to get a breather from the IRS In the .

Special Report on page 12.

FREE HORSES - You can adopt a
wlld mustang or burro from the
Federal government. Seehow In.
the otter on page 14.-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

coNsrnucrIoN ourors- oer

 

 

 

complete plans on bulldlng
fences and outdoor decks trom

 

 

the pros. Otter on page 9.

 

 

 

TWENTY TATTOOS- Joln the body -/ 1
tattoo craze wlth thls collectlon f5 ~ "
ot ,colortul, temporary tattoos
avallable on page B.

BASEBALL BONUS - Hundreds of
tree decals, team photos, sched-
ules, etc. can be yours. See the
sprlng sports speclal on page"
10.

 

 

 

 

ma orcorurlons Flnd »

 

 

complete Instructlons on maldng
your own Easter decoratlons In

 

 

 

 

Free 'n Easy on page 21.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

  

Freebies job is to find. investigate
and report—for the interest and ben-
, efit of its readers—the best free and
for-a—small-postage-and-handling-fee
offers available. The editors screen
offers carefully before they are pub-
lished to ‘make sure that the item
offered is as described and that the
company or organization making the

I FREEBIE

FREEBIES

. A < a .
WE“. - s
' 1

 

    

offer is prepared to honor requests
from FREEBIES readers. '

- In this time of rising costs—print-
ing. postage. salaries—you will find
that some offers require a small fee
for postage and handling or a self—
addressed. stamped envelope. We
have kept the offers to only those -

S Philosophy .

 

Companies are anxious for you to
try their products and are interested
in helping the consumer wade
through a myriad of information.
That is Why they make these offers to
the public. We appreciate their con-
tinued support and cooperation.
and.ifwe all try to work together.

. hopefully. the offers will continue.

,. that do not exceed $1.00. ‘
How To Get The Most 4

Out of FREEBIES

’ FREEBIES should be thought of by
our readers as a tool and as is the case
with any tool there’s a right way and
a wrong way to use it. By observing
these few basic do’s and don‘ts. youfll
get the free offers you order more

' quickly—with fewer delays and hassles.

l) WRITE THE SOURCE. Every article
lists the name and address where you
' can obtain the freebie. Please do not .
send your requests to FREEBIES.

2) "SELECT CAREFULLY. Make your
selections thoughtfully. almost as if
you were buying from a mail order
catalog. because in a sense you are.

, Every item you send for co'sts you at
least 15¢ for postage alone. It can add
up. So be choosey. Send for those
things you really want. Freebies are a"
wonderful bonanza. but. if abused.
they” quickly disappear.

.3) FOLLOW DIRECTIONS. Precisely.
We’ve simplified our directions-by out-
lining at the conclusion of each
article exactly what to ask for. what to
- send and where to send your request.
If a source making an offer wants
your request on a postcard. send a

postcard. If they ask for a SASE (self—
addressed. stamped envelope). oblige
them, even to the point of sending the
correct size. be it business size (” 10)
or one larger or smaller. Also include
the proper postage and/or any nominal
fees requested. This helps reduce
handling time and expense. and ifyou
don’t. you may not receive a reply.
Plus. be sure to type or print legibly
and include your complete name.

address in the body of your letter or . '

postcard. as well as on the front for
a‘ return address. If you are asked to
send 25¢ or 50¢ in coin. tape your
coins to your letter or to a piece of
thin cardboard. so that they don’t slide
around and accidentally tear open the
envelope.

4) ASK ONLY FOR WHAT YOU CAN
USE. As a general rule. don't ask for I
more than one. Unless. ofcourse.you’re
a teacher with a classroom full of kids.
and the article saysit's OK In that case
it is a good idea to send your request on
letterhead stationery and explain your
specific needs.

5) BE PATIENT. You should allow

at least four weeks fora reply. and
even then it maybe more like six.

In some cases. however. you will be

surprised by a quick response. After
eight weeks. then begin to worry. Keep
in mind that if the free offer is a good
one—and you wouldn’t be interested
if it weren't—the company or organ—
ization making the offer is probably
besieged by other FREEBIES readers!
Many items will be sent by third or
fourth class mail. which gets where it’s
going. but slowly.

6) BE PROMPT. Many times a freebie
will be available for a limited period
of time because of short supply.
seasonality. or because it‘spart ofa
special offer. Write promptly and you‘ll
have a better chance of getting what
you want. "

7) TALK BACK. When you receive f ree-
bies thatare particularly good or help-
ful. let the suppliers know; They‘ll
appreciate hearing from you and will ‘
likely be encouraged to provide other
freebies in the future.

Let us know ifyou don't hear from a
company'or Organization. or ifthe free
item turns out to be decidedly less than
what you‘ve been led to believe. Some~ .
times it happens. The FREEBIES staff
is always anxious to hear from its
readers—with the good or the bad
news.

 

 

Volume 4
Number 34-
March 1981

Managing Editor
JEAN MANGUS

Art Director
10M GOULD

Mt" , . Cover Illustrator:
JON LEE RICK GEARY
Special Features Editor ,

KAREN MOORE Circulation Director

 

Copyright 1981 FREEBIES PUBLISHING COII
PANY. No part of this material may be reproduced
without written permission.

Second Class postage paid at Santa Barbara. California.
USPS Publication '429—290. ISSN 0148-2092.

, 'C/E.

KELLI BRA ENE
Associate Editors YD

BARBARA DUVAL General Manager

KATHLEEN HARDIN GAIL MORSE
DAN SHIELLS

LESLIE KELLEHER Publisher
Copy Editor GENE ZANNON
MARY smNE

Research Editor ' 9

SUSAN HUGHES

Permission to publish the offers in FREEBIES
Magazine has been granted solely for inclusion in
this issue. All other parties desiring to reprint any of
these otters MUST contact the suppliers directly to
verify availability.

All correspondence (INCLUDING POSTAL FOR“ 3579)
should be sent to FREEBIES. P.O. Box 5797. Santa
Barbara. CA 93 1 08. Editorial omces are located at 1 387

, School House Road. Santa Barbara. CA 93108.

FREEBIES is a registered trademark of FREEBIES
PUBLISHING COMPANY.

Published monthly except January. June and August by
FREEBIES PUBLISHING COMPANY. P.0. Box 5797.
Santa Barbara. CA 93108 (1387 School House Rd.)

Claims for missing copies cannot be honored after 80
days. .

For information on subscriptions. write to FREEBIES

.Hagazine. P.O. Box 5797. Santa Barbara. CA 93108.

Subscriptions OB/year.

‘

 

 

Editor’s Notebook

A quick look at the shelves of your
local bookstore will Show you that
FREEBIES is not the only publica-
tion that can point you to free
materials. There are plenty of books
now in print that attempt to do just
what we here at FREEBIES have
been doing for years.

Most of these books do contain
some good information. But they
also have some real shortcomings
that we at FREEBIES have success-

fully averted. You. the reader. are the .

one who benefits most.

The biggest plus that we have
going for us is that we come out
regularly. nine times a year. This
enables us to bring you the latest
offers as they appear so that you
have the‘first shot at whatever item
is being presented. Our frequency
also makes it possible for us to bring
you Christmas related freebies dur-
ing the holiday season, income tax
information during tax time and \
garden oriented offers when it’s time
to sow those seeds. No bOOk that’s
updated only once a year can meet
your changing seaSOnal needs and
keep its offers up to date.

Another— pitfall of most bOOks of
this type is that they have no [direct
relationship with suppliers as stocks
of the free materials dwindle. At
FREEBIES we screen each item of— ‘

fered to make sure that the supplier .

will honor FREEBIES’ readers’ 're-
quests and that there are sufficient
supplies to fulfill these requests.
This saves you from sending away for
items that will give you only a "sorry
we’re out" response. . '

We also personally review each
item to guarantee that what we
publish is a legitimate offer and not
a promotion. And because we de-
scribe the offer in more detail than
other publications, it’s more likely
that you’ll not be disappointed with
what you end up receiving.

FREEBIES is the most dependable
and enjoyable publication of its kind,
and we’re working hard to keep it
that way. In this issue and those to
come, season after season, page

. after page. you’ll see what wemean.

Jon Lee
Editor

NUMBER THIRI'Y -FOUR

Contents .

v I « . .
. ‘ 4' ,
»
. J .
> \ .

 

5

1-0

12

 

FREEBIES Features 3 \ ‘14’

Kid Stuﬁ'

. A comic book teaches the

basics of living with thecredit
system and you learn how to . ‘
teach your dog the meaning of
good behavior. A dental guide

help you through the myriad of

deduCtions. credits and Spe- 3
cial situations. ' , 4
22
23
23

Hobbies _ _ _ . ‘
Fill your idle hours with pro-
ductive pastimes that are also
loads of fun. A free horse from :
Uncle Sam. a weaving guide '
and a selection of unique sew-

ing projects are guaranteed to .

keep your life exciting.

Shows us all howto ﬂoss and 1'5 :reebiels for"TegaI-:l::n nutri .
' . com e e pro ,-
brush our teeth properly tion aIII)d baking can give kids
Feel GOOd’ 1‘00" Goal something to learn, Something ‘
' Keep yourself and your family to bake and SOmething to eat.
healthy with a tailor-made fit- IBM. also has a list of some g ‘
ness plan. Extensive informa- great teaching aids.
tion on kidne troublesand a
cancer hotlinz can answer all '16 F0“ and Drink _ y ,
‘ your questions on causes, diag— Keep things cooking at home
nosis. and treatment of these with recipes featuring. eggs, .
health problems. Spanish onions, peanuts and
. cheese. An in-depth look at
Beauty . pork will tell you things even
Keep your skin nice with mois- your butcher doesn’t know.
turizin cream, your eyes beau- - .
tiful wigth tips on make—up. and 18- Features ,
have fun with a collection of , Free materials onindoor
twenty temporary Skin tattoos. plants, chain saw mainten-
. ance, coin collecting and more .
Freebies for the Home ' can make these activities eas-
You can learn how to make ier. less expensive and lots
cleaning products for the horrciie. more fun. -
construct your own fences an . , 7
outdoor decks and then insure 21 Free It Easy .. ‘
that home against floods and Making your own creative
crime with federally funded Easter decorations will save ‘
insurance- ‘ you money and fill your home
/ with seasonal spirit. Here, are
Sports Page , ideas for what to make and >
Baseball season is near,_and . complete instructions.
here’s your chance to get free
decals, bumper stickers. team
photos and schedules for your
favorite team. You'll find a list
of the teams, their addresses
- i that th offer. .
and the freeb es ey Departments
Special Report - ,
Learn how to extend the dead-
line for filing your income tax 2 HOW TO Get the Most Out. of /
form plus a listing of the most FREEBIES. ‘
Common IRS publications to . 27 FREEBIES Philosophy

Editor’s Notebook
Hotline

Catalog Quest

Free for All

Coming Next Issue .

 

 

 




 

 

L,

 

More Mail
Do you know of any general address
-I could write to in order to receive
more f’junk mail”? I'd like catalogs,
special offers, just about anything.
Getting junk mail and catalogs is
one of my favorite vices, and I’d like
to find how I can get my name and

address on any and all possible
mailing lists. ' ‘

. S.F. .
Berwyn, IL

(Editor’s Note: Whether you want
more mail, or less, the Direct Mail/
Marketing Association can help '
you. They have over 1 .800 member
companies who will beef up or
prune down the amount of adver-
tising you find in your mail box.
Just write to DMMA, Mail Prefer-
ence Service, 6 East 43rd Street,
.New York, NY 1001 7 and they’ll
show you how to take advantage
of their service.) 7

 

FREEBIES Free Sam I
’ ...ForA Friend _ pe

Got a friend just as crazy about free

‘ samples. booklets. and fun as you are?
Then. just fill in the coupon below, send
us a self-addressed stamped (28¢ in
~ stamps on it) #10 envelope. and we’ll
send your friend a free sample

'1

Copy of FREEBIES.

Incase you forgot our address. mail to:

FREEBIES Magazine
PO Box 5797 _
' Santa Barbara. CA 93108

, FREEBIES Free Sample |
. . . For a Friend: I

Yes. I‘d like to send a free sample copy I

of FREEBIES Magazine to the person

I named below. I am enclosing a SASE '
(#10) with 28¢ in stamps on it.

 

 

Name

I
l

Address ~~ , l '
I
l

 

City

 

 

 

State, Zip

 

  

v f FREEBIES
Hotline

Yeah, Football!

Just to let you know. I Sent for
promotional material from the San

Francisco 49ers and Portland Trail- “

blazers. Within one week I received
their material. Thanks very much.

A.L.
Glide, 0R

Thanks for showing my sons how to

get all these freebies from NFL teams.

They’ve put deCals on their note-
books, lunch boxes, and even on
their bathroom mirror. It makes the
games that their father watches
more important to them. Thanks

again.

R.N.
Cedar Mountain, NC

 

 

 
 

Promises, Promises

I sent away for a free decal from the '

New England Whalers hockey team
thatrwas listed in your magazine as
being free. They sent me back a price
list saying that -I had to pay for the
decal. My 7-year-old was disappoint-
-_ ed. Please make sure that you are
correct when you put the addresses
for “free” things in yOur magazine.

' A.C. '
Chaplin. CT

(Editor’s Note: We checked out
each and every sports team. I
. mentioned in FREEBIES. and in this
particular instance, Frank
Polnaszek told us that decals and
a price list/catalog were available
from their team. However, as is
noted in the introduction to the »
article, items are on an “as avail-
able” basis. Perhaps they were out
of decals when they received your
letter. We’re not sure when you
wrote to them, but we stipulate
that all offers in FREEBIES are
good for a limited time only. In
any case, we have written the New
England Whalers a letter to find
out just what the problem is.)

 

FREEBIES Reprints

FREEBIES has a limited quantity
of the following reprints available. ‘
You may wish to order one or
several for yourself. We will also
be happy to send reprints to your
friend(s). Just send a long self-
addressed stamped envelope for
each address.

Dried Flowers/Fruits—lncluded here
are directions for drying ﬂowers to

. make your own potpourri and
sachets. It’s important, too, not to let
{fruits and vegetables spoil. You’ll
find instructions on how to dehy-

drate your own foods for long-term
storage.

Gardening—here’s a sampling of gar?
dening, seed, herb, vegetable, and
pine tree catalogs, some including
planting schedules and one includ-

 

L_____,_:j

ing a free .packet of seeds.

. meat and make them into money-

»;and locations.

Travel-In yoursearch for the per-
fect vacation, don’t overlook the
state tourism d :partrnents.

Cut a Little. Save a Lot—tells how to
take ordinary supermarket cuts of

saving ,mealsat home.

,‘Tel-Med—a complete unto-date list
of all Tel-Med offices across the
nation, including phone numbers

Directions: Send a long SASE
Ask For: ReprintIs) by title.

1 copy each and 3 per

envelope, please '
Mail To: FREEBIES Reprints

P.O. Box 5776

Santa Barbara, CA 93108

 

 

 

Courteous Canine Certificate

’

NUMBER THIRTY-FOUR.

,_ Kid Stuff

On Teeth-

   

 

 

Say Please (“WOOﬂ”)

How do you insure having a happy,
healthy dog? You feed it well, give it
lots of loving affection, exercise it
regularly and teach it good man-
ners. And why is a well-behaved dog

, happier "and healthier? Because ‘

being a “good citizen," whether it's
the human or canine variety, means
making life easier and more pleasant
for us and for people around us.
That’s why the makers of Gaines dog
food have instituted the' new Cour-
teous Canine program.

Gaines is offering a free copy of its
booklet, What Every Good Dog
Should Know, which provides in-
formation on the basics‘of obedience
training. Upon the submission of a
signed statement to the effect that
your dog‘ihas been taught to come
when called, walk properly On» a
leash, sit and stay on command. and
know the meaning of the word “No,”
you will be issued a specially de-
signed “Courteous Canine” Certifi- ,
cate naming your dog and you as its
trainer or owner. ‘

Teach your dog to obey laws, be
courteous to others and become a
welcome member of your community,
and get a certificate of graduation to
prove it. A tail-wagging deal for both
you and your pet!

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: What Every Good Dog
Should Know and
Courteous Canine
Certificate

Mail To: Gaines Dog Research

Center

250 North Street ‘
White Plains, NY 10625.

 

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\t\\\w‘5

  

a?
$4
§
3:

din W. 7 mfzﬁﬁgaa 51W 7 ~u'ifc
awn’hhls fazm'ne Gauti’sy’b:

WWWWEW “gz~;..:m“ cm...

l7/lIll/Ill/Illlllll/l/l/l/I/l/I/l/l/lI};

Gaines ' *‘ ‘M

 

 

 

 

 

S\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\.\\\\\\.\.\\.\3&\X\ ;

 

, Plaque? Flghi Back! f

You‘ve seen the commercials where
Johnny brushes longer because he
uses a sweet-tasting blue gel, and
you’ve watched TV moms load up
their medicine cabinets with tooth-
pastes that insure great checkups.
But no one on the TV ads tells you
exactly HOW to brush your teeth.
In Rx for Sound Teeth you learn
what plaque is—masses of bacteria
growing on your teeth. It also ex-
plains how to fight plaque build-up

 

 

and prevent diseases of the teeth
and gums in three easy steps: First,—
use ﬂoss or dental tape to remove
germs and food particles which
lodge between the teeth. UnwaXed
ﬂoss is better than waxed because
the wax on some ﬂosses. can stick .
between your'teeth and create a
gummy haven for germs to grow.
Step Two: Brush your teeth to re- .
move plaque from the tooth surfaces.
(We all know that One.) Step Three: .
Brush your TONGUE! Why? The
tongue may be coated with food resi-
dues which will feed any remaining
plaque bacteria: Even if you brush
AND ﬂoss you are still leaving nutri-
ents in your mouth which may lead to
tooth decay. ’ *

The ﬂipside of this pamphlet ex-
plains exactly what plaque is and
what to do if you have it. Even if you 7
follow the three steps for tooth care
you may be missing some spots. ‘

Don’t let plaque snack on your
teeth and gums. Find out how to
keep those ivories gleaming.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Rx for Sound Teeth
Mail To: Office of Scientific and '
‘ , Health Reports
Bldg. 31, Room 2C34,
NIDR. NIH ._
Bethesda, MD 20205

 

Comic Book

 

Consumer Credli

Sally the Spender charges her vaca-
tion and purchases. But, she spends
far more money than she earns. Poor
Sally! Now she’s overwhelmed by
overdue bills and monthly interest
rates. _
Methodical Jack needs a car for
work. so he shops for the one he can
afford, checks with his bank about
loan terms, and adds up his mOnthly
living expenses. Unlike Sally, Jack is
pleased about his new purchase. .
Find out about YOUR rights and
responsibilities as a borrower in The
Story of Consumer Credit, a'com‘ic
book“ from the Federal Reserve Bank
“of New York. Learn how to shop
around for the best loan, how to

‘ plan a monthly budget, how to

establish a good credit record, and

what to do in case of a billing
mistake. (First, put your complaints
in writing.) The last pages explain
types of consumer credit and list
Federal agencies to contact if you
have credit questions or problems.
Credit buying is a big part of our
lives. It allows us to enjoy what we
want now, but, because credit is a
debt that MUST be repaid, we must
make financial plans for theéfuture.
You can start planning now by
becoming a consumer credit expert!

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: The Story of Consumer
Credit - '

Mail To: Federal Reserve Bank of

New York
Public Information Dept. ‘ '
33 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10045

  




 

 

The Austrian Way

       

FREEBIES

 

Say Cheese  

When you say “cheese” to an Austri-

~ ' an. don’t be surprised if his expres-

sion changes immediately to one of
sheer delight. Austrians love to eat, a
fact well known to anyone who has
visited their picturesque European
country at the foOt of the Alps. And
‘ one of the reasons Austrians find
such joy in their food is the delecté
able assortment of fine cheeses that
grace‘their tables in a multitude of
exciting dishes.

‘1 The New Austrian Cheese Cook-
book has 20 complete recipes for .

\ . ' cheese dishes with the ﬂavor of Old

World Austria. All start. With fine,
Austrian cheese. which ranges 'frdm
the popular Mont Austria whole milk
variety to the soft and creamy, garlic-
~ and herb-ﬂavored Austrian Blue
Danube brand. Austria produces
70.000‘tons of cheese annually, and '
10 percent ends up in America
.Other popular varieties in this
country are Mondseer (semisoft) and
' Baby Butter (semisoft).

The New Austrian Cheese Cook-
‘book covers recipes for fondue and
several innovative party appetizers.
graduates into entrees like Tyrolean
skillet dinner and Danube baked
onions and finishes with desserts.
such as Austrian plum fritters and
banana bites with apricot sauce.

i .

Hand Computer ‘ .

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: The New Austrian Cheese
Cookbook

Mail To: Austrian Food Center
295 Northern Blvd.
Department GH .
Great Neck, NY 11021 .

 

The Pork Man’s Guide

Quick now, how long should a 6-
pound half ham be roasted and how
high should the meat temperature
be when done? If you got that one.
how about time and temperature for
panfrying a half-inch pork chop?
The Pork Buyer’s Guide is a

hand-held slide computer that pro-
duces quick answers to all cooking
questions involving pork Roasting.

' broiling,‘ panbroiling, panfrying,
braising and cooking in liquid
methods are explained and the
cross-indexed guide gives cooking
times and finished temperature

' readings for eVery cut of pork avail-

  

 

able. A butcher’s guide to the various
cuts is on the back of the computer.

Also, and this is particularly valu—
able in these days of rising meat
prices, a sliding scale displays the _
approximate cost per serving of the
various cuts based on a given price
per pound.

Directions: Send 25¢ postage and
handling ,

' Ask' For: Pork Buyer’s Guide

Mail To: Pork Industry Group
National Livestock and
Meat Board
444 No. Michigan Ave.
Chicago, IL 6061 1 '

 

‘ 'Fo‘Od and Drink ‘—

Recipes and Info
Eggs-Acily Right

For those unfortunate people who
think that sunny-side—up beside two
strips of bacon is the only way to

 

enjoy eggs, here’s some good‘news. For

only pennies a serving. eggs can
provide high quality protein. vita-.
mins and minerals in some of the .

. tastiest dishes imaginable.

A trio of leaﬂets will show you’how
to feature eggs in delicious meals
from morning eye-openers to evening
omelets. Onielets By. Candlelight
gives you exact instructions on how
to make a basic omelet, one of the
egg’s most versatile forms. It goes on
to provide eight distinctive proofs of
that versatility. including Sausage
Apple Omelet, Omelet Ambrosia and
the more conventional mushroom

' and Spanish omelets.

Centsible Meals provides a selec—
tion of total meal plans that include
eggs. Eggs as a culinary cornerstone
insure good nutrition at minimal
cost. Quicheszis a third leaﬂet which _
takes the mystery out of this easier-
than-you-think way of serving egg

. and making a meal special- '

If yOu’re‘ a smart meal planner.
you’ll send for these handy recipes
and meal ideas without us egging
you on any further.

Directions: Send 25¢ postage and
'handung .
Ask For: Information and recipes
on eggs
Mail To: Egg Freebies
c/o The Georgia Egg
Commission “
State Farmers' Market
Forest Park, GA 30050

 

I
'IA—An— J.‘,. ___- . Lana-A: L

 

  

 
 

Cooking and Serving
Pleasures of Peanuts

 

You may not think of peanuts and '
gourmet cooking as going hand in
hand. But this trio of leaﬂets from
the Oklahoma Peanut Commission
may change your way of thinking.

A colorful recipe booklet. It’s Easy
To Be a Gourmet with Peanuts,
reveals 29 pages of delicious and .
surprising peanut and peanut butter
recipes for main dishes. vegetables.
soups, salads, appetizers andbreads.
And, of course, there are dozens of
dessert ideas for cookies, cakes.
candies, puddings and frostings.
Over 200 recipes in all feature this
fabulous little nut. ‘

If you have a hard time imagining
how to cook peanuts, How To Cook
a Peanut should answer your ques-
tions. This leaﬂet shows you how to
blanch, French fry, oil roast, dry
roast and sugar coat peanuts. It also
tells how to make peanut butter.
cookies, pies and many other pea-
nutty favorites.

Recipes from Your Oklahoma
Peanut Commission fits into your
recipe box neatly. Pull it out and .
you’ll have step-by-step instructions
on making Peanut Brittle, Peanut
Butter Fudge, Peanut-Banana
Spread. Seafoam Peanut Bars and
lots more. ‘ .

With all these recipes, you’ll never
again think of. peanuts as just some-
thing in a bag at ball games.

Directions: It’s Easy To Be a
Gourmet with Peanuts
(50¢ postage and han-
ling)
All other materials
(Send long SASE)
Ask For: Desired Materials
Mail To: Oklahoma Peanut
Commission .
Box D, Department F
Madill, OK 73446

NUMBER THIRTY-FOUR
Spice Hunter

\ Spice Up Your life

Anyone who has spent any time at
all in the kitchen knows that the
success of a meal depends on proper
seasoning. When you’re adding a,
pinch of this and a dash of that to
your own special recipe. you need to
know that the spice you’re adding is
fresh, ﬂavorful and right for your
preparation. Otherwise, it’s "Pass the
ketchup” time at the table. ‘ r

The Spice Hunter is a mail-direct-
to-you inventory of spices and blend-
ed spices that are guaranteed for
freshness and ﬂavor (or money back,
no questions asked). Plus, ounce-for-
ounce, the Spice Hunter’s collection

a gig, 1

promises to~be less expensive than

‘supermarket brands. '

As a special service to FREEBIES
readers. the SpiCe Hunter will send a

brochure cataloging its select and

blended spices and your choice of a"
hand—tied sampleof either Mulled
Wine and Cider Spice, Bouquets
Gamis. Or Lemon Herb Gamis. All
are carefully blended from several
complementary spices. ' ‘ ,
In addition, the Spice Hunter will
send a sampling of recipes which
feature its line of spices.
Directions: Send $1.00 postage and,
handling "
Ask For: Sample spice ball (Mule'd ,

Wine and Cider, Bouquets ' , .

Garnis or Lemon Herb
Garnis) and Brachure

Mail To: The Spice Hunter»
Antler Drive, Dept. F
Rt. 2, Box 666-F '
Arroyo Grande, CA 93420

 

Onion Cookbook

 

.No Mere Tears

Do you shed tears as you slice into
those big juicy onions that give their
all to enhance the ﬂavor of your
family’s meals? min of calcium,

.vitamins‘A and C, iron, thiamineand

niacin, we still know onions best for
their ﬂavor. And according to this
freebie, each onion is just aching to
bring all that nutrition and hearty
ﬂavor to your stew and other dishes.
The Onion Recipe Book is full of
delicious dishes that take advantage
of big Sweet Spanish Onions. The ,
nutrition and economy of these -
meaty onions make them ideal for

' today’s budget-minded meal plan-
: ners. The booklet explains proper

storage of fresh onions and how they

can be preserved in the refrigerator
' , or freezer.

These big. beefy onions are versa-
tile, andyou’ll find ways to enjoy
them in salads, side dishes, sauces.
dressings and main dishes. Onion
Liver Paté, French Fried Onion Rings.
Broccoli Stuffed Onions, Onion
Cheese Strata and Creole Onions are
only a few of the tantalizing ways of

. enjoying this wholesome food.

When you see the joy in your
family’s faces as you serve up these

savory dishes, you’ll shed no tears for;

the hearty onions who’ve given their
all. ' '

 

3'47! 113'; A" I “ ,

Directions: Send a long SASE

Ask For: Onion Cookbook

Mail To: Idaho Oregon Promotion . '
Committee .
P.O. Box 307 '
Parma, ID 83660




 

FREEBIES

 

akeup Poster

* Beauty

Body Tattoos

,

 

Optical Illusions

If you don’t think that Mother
Nature did' all ”She could for your
eyes, a few sleights-of-hand can help
you compensate for little imperfec-
tions. Changes in the way you apply

' your make-up can transform mute
eyes into eyes that talk.

In 42 Ways to Talk with Your
Eyes, Allercreme illustrates make-up
techniques to correct eyes that are
too prominent or too deep set, too '

‘ close together or too far apart, or too
small. For instance, a subtly blended
stroke of Frosty Coconut under the
brow enlarges the eyes; the same
shadow color highlighting the center
brow focuses eyes that are too far
apart.

Your eyeslcan reveal a lot about
who you are. Or the you you would
like to be. Let this pamphlet help
you express yourself beautifully with-

MOisture Cream Sample

out saying a word. For a daring,
nighttime look. Allercreme suggests
dramatic emphasis for the eyes—
tones of chestnut, beige and cream.
Fora provocative daytime look. try

contours of browns and greens, and .

a hint of eyeliner from the center to
the outer edges of the eye. Or an
innocent, little-girl look for wide-
open eyes. Vibrant splashes of gold
and ginger create a glowing, lively -
appearance. . '
Tape, this poster inside your cos-
metic cabinet at eye level and
learn how to speak with your own

‘ two eyes.

Directions: Send 25¢ postage and
handling /
Ask For: 42 Ways To Talk with
Your Eyes
Mail To: 42 Ways
P.O. Box 185
Ft. Worth. TX 76101

 

Mae There

Aloe Vera is a spiky-leaved succulent
which. has long been known for its
curative qualities. According to leg-
end, the aloe was the only plant
allowed out of the Garden of Eden.
Southwest Indians call the aloe the

' “wand of heaven” because of its
wonderful medicinal powers.

The jelly-like juice, when applied '
externally, soothes burns and insect
bites and allays the itch of poison
ivy. When taken internally it is a‘
mild laxative. .

Now, you have the opportunity to
experience the soothing qualities of
this herb «in Aloe Vera Facial Mois-
turizing Cream. This delicate cream

‘ . is: enriched with natural oils and

herbs to soften your skin and keep it
smooth and glowing. The manufac-
turer claims that the cream is an

v-

excellent make-up base and night-
time moisturizer. (We experimented
with it and found that it absorbed
quickly into hands roughened by

weed-pulling and dishwashing. and -
. disappeared quickly and smoothly

into the skin around the eyes.)

You can receive a 2402. jar and
experiment yourself. You, too, may
discover what many people around
the world have known for thousands
of years about this life-giving
succulent.

Directions: Send $1.00 postage
and handling (1 per
.. family, please)

Ask For: Aloe Vera Facial Moistur-
izing Cream

Mail To: General Nutrition Corp.
Department RK37 ,
418 Wood Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15222

The Illustrated Body

Have you been intrigued by the new .
body tattoo craze but want to avoid
the pain and permanence of the real
thing? Then BOdy Art Temporary
Skin Tattoos were made for you.
These fun, feminine little art decals
will stay on for days or can be
removed with your change of mood '
or costume. A butterﬂy or heart on
your ankle, a tiny bluebird winging
across your shoulder. The possibili-
ties are limited only by your
imagination. ‘

Children will love them, too! They’d
make a delightful gift for a favorite
small friend. '

' A package containing over twenty
tattoos is yours for 50¢ postage‘and
handling. The manufacturer will
surprise you with either hearts,
butterﬂies, ﬂowers, fruit or a design
assortment. They cannot guarantee
what pattern selection you will be
sent. So add a- little color and spice ,
spice to your life! \ ‘ I ‘

Directions: Send 50¢ postage and
' handling
Ask For: Body Art Temporary Skin
, Tattoos
Mail To: Metra Corp.
Dept. B/A ‘
1610 Greensb'urg Pike ,
No. Versailles, PA 15137

 

 

 

 

 

. NUMBER THIRTY-FOUR

* Freebies for the Home   ‘

Flood 8:. Crime InSurance
Managing Emergencies

Flood and crime insurance is usually .
much more difficult to collect than
most realize. Many who think-they
are covered against such losses often
find their policy salesman sympa-
thetic but of no help when trying to
recover lost assets. To fill this gap

the federal government has devel-

‘oped low cost crime and ﬂOod insur-‘

ance programs and-will mail you free
information booklets to acquaint
you with them. I

Questions and Answers: Nation- .
al FlOod Insurance Program tells
you all you need to know about how
you can protect yourself and your
property against ﬂood. How to apply

’ _ for the federal program and nearby

regional offices who institute it are
given for easy access and informa-
tion on local issues.

Questions and Answers on the
Federal Crime Insurance Program
explains the availability of federally
subsidized crime insurance for areas ‘
where renewal of old policies or
granting of new ones has been de-
nied. This-is usually the case in high
crime areas. This protection is af-
fordable and safeguarded by federal
involvement.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: Federal Flood and/or
Crime Insurance Pro-
grams Info. (also. available
in spanish) . ’

Mail To: Office of Public Affairs
Federal Emergency

Management Agency

1 725 I Street, NW. .
Washington, D.C. 20472

 

 

 

 

 

oursme msuoe' ,

Construction Guides

» Decks and Fences} ~ ‘ .-

Oneway to go about a home im- ‘
provement project is to just start in
and learn as you go. Each mistake
you make will teach you something
so that you can go back and do it
right. A wiser do-it-yourSelfer, how-
ever, would get some expert advice
and instruction so that the job
comes out correctly the first time.
Here's a pair of excellent guides for
construction projects for'all of you
wise woodworkers who are planning
to improve your property with a new
wooden deck or fence. , . .

 

 

 

How To Build a Deck shows you .\
how to plan the project so that the .
finished product is sturdy, useful, .
properly situated and the design ‘ _
that you desire. It gives advice’on' the
best hardware and accessories to

‘ . use, how to estimate your lumber

needs (and expenses),‘and providesa -.
step-by—step guide to accompany you . '
through the project. It is complete .
with measurements, tool require-
ments, and tips acquired thrOugh
years of experience by expert '
builders. ‘ ' .
How To Build a Fence is, a similar
magazine, showing you’altemative ~ .
designs, typesof wOod and construc-
tion techniques. It also helps you
plan your fence wisely so that you're:
happy with the final Version. Tools.
materials and specific dimensions ,
will show you how to make a profes?
sional-looking fence even “if it’s your"
first time out of the gate. .
Directions: Send $1.00 postage
' A and handling for eac
f magazine . .
Ask For: Desired magazine
Mail To: Koppers Company, Inc.
1900 Koppers Building
Pittsburgh, PA 15219

N. . "' . '
m. ' I - .
s

For the Home

No Soap

Most people would be amazed to
find out what is, and what isn’t.
found in their favorite home care
products. That‘s because, once you'
get past the fancy packaging and
perfumed scent. most brand. name
cleaning products are nothing more
than a blend of a few basic ingre-
dients found in any'drug or hard-
ware store. . A ‘

Creating your own home care
products will save you money, and
you may find you like your own
concoctions more than the expensive
brands.

Recipes for Home Care Products
from Clemson University’s Home
Economics Department and the US.
Department of Agriculture cantains
a guide for making soaps, cleaners,
cleansers and polishes from easily
obtainable ingredients. The basics

are probably already in your home: ‘

ammonia, vinegar, baking soda.
lemon juice, salt, ﬂour, kerosene, ~ '
turpentine, linseed oil, hydrogen 3
peroxide, cream of tartar and borax.
You can make an effective silver .
polish, for instance, by combining
.water, Salt, baking soda and a sheet;
of aluminum foil.

Some ingredients should be used ‘
with care, but the Recipes far Home

7 Care Products pamphlet is careful to ,

say where caution is advised. Be
creative, and tell the Tidy Bowl Man
you don’t need him any more. .

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Recipes for HomeCare
' , Products .
' Mail To: Public Service -
Publications, .
Department of Informa- .
tion 82. Public Service
Clemson University
102 Fike Street .
Clemson, SC 29631

 




 

 

_710

  

'Baeebau 1981,

I The coming of Spring means several

‘ things: ﬂowers in bloom, warm.
sunny days and baseball. Yes,
baseball, America‘s-cherished tradi- '
tion for over 100 years, starts the

. 1981 season in early April (spring

’ . training is already underway.) .

' A lot has changed in the sport in

recent years, most notably the esca-

Team/Address

' PR Dept. .
Atlanta Braves
Box 4064 ,
Atlanta. GA 30302

PR Dept. ‘

Baltimore Orioles

Memorial Stadium
"Baltimore, MD 212 l 8

Boston Red Sox
,1 .. .Fenway Park
Boston. MA 0221 5

California Angels
Anaheim Stadium

"~ 2000 State College Blvd.

Anaheim. .CA 92803

Chicago Cubs

' Wrigley Field
.1060 W. Addison Street
Chicago, IL 60613

Publicity Dept.
Chicago WhiteSox
.324 W. 35th Street
Chicago. IL 60616

\

(if!)

 

 

 

 

Items Available

. Decal

Photo postcards
Team Picture A
Schedule

Decal

Price List
Schedule

Pocket Schedule '

Souvenir Price List '

Schedule
Ticket Info.
Souvenir Price List

Price List
Decal
Schedule
Ticket ' Info

Decal

Schedule

Price List
Scorebook (50¢)

8 x 10 photos of
individual players
(3 1.00)

   

 

' lation of _players’ salaries into tax ’
brackets that could underwrite half
. of the national defense‘budget. But
there are still some things that the
average fan can get for himself
without hiring an agent. \_
Almost every major league club
has something to offer for nOthing.
The list includes team photos, news— ,
letters, decals, bumper stickers.
schedules. player photos, and price

 

FREEBIES

Sports Page

Team/Address

. PR Dept.

Cincinnati Reds .
100 Riverfront Stadium
Cincinnati. OH 45202

PR Dept. _
Cleveland Indians
Cleveland Stadium

‘ Bouldreau Blvd.

Cleveland. OH 441 14

~ PR Dept.

Detroit Tigers
Tiger Stadium
Detroit. MI 48216

 

 

lists for souvenirs and tickets,
Each club has its own giveaway ' 7
Program and may not offer the same

items. So FREEBIES has compiled a _
list of all of the club’s addresses and '
the merchandise that they offer. Be
your own “free" agent. Score the
items that interest you—or your
children—the most and settle in for
the 1981 season. It’ll be here before
you know it.

Items Available

OHIO, KENTUCKY,
_WEST VIRGINIA,
TENNESSEE, INDIANA
RESIDENTS ONLY:
Schedule

Decal

 

,‘

Special Event Brochure .3

Souvenir List

‘ Bumper Sticker

Decal .

Postcard photo of indi-

vidual players"
Schedule 0,
Team photo (after
season starts)

' MICHIGAN, NORTH-

WEST OHIO-NORTH-
EAST INDIANA RESI-v

‘ DENTS ONLY: .

ALL OTHERS SEND ‘
LONG SASE . ‘
Schedule

. Decal
. Novelty List

If available, Fanfare -
Folder containing
photos and signatures
of players and schedule
of special event games

 

 

‘1:-

   
 

 

 

NUMBER THIRTY-FOUR . , _ . .
’ 7 ems. Available
/Address Items Available . Team/Address [It ,_ 1 ‘
Team ' " Schedule Oakland Athletics . SchlfliuI ef0 __
Houston ASth Decal ‘ , Oakland Alameda County Esme] n ,
The Astrodome l . Coliseum ,
Postcards of individua
. '1
3303:: 2%? 77001 players Oakland, @9452 . . _
- Decal Philadelphia Phillies Eggggggmﬂ
FR Dept. ‘ 1 Newsletter — The Royal PO. Box 7575 .. ’
MARYLAND. NEW
Kansa986%ity Royals Repart (published every Philadelphia, PA 19101 YORK ,1 IDENTS
1123x3125 City MO 64141 other month, 8-12 . ~ ONLY: RES ,
n V , pages) I Decal ~ .
Fan Brochure - roster. Schedule

LA. Dodgers

Dodger Stadium.
10000 Elysian Park
Los Angeles, CA 90012

Milwaukee Brewers
Milwaukee County Stadium
Milwaukee. WI 53246

PR Director

Minnesota Twins
Metropolitan Stadium
Bloomington, MN 55420

Publicity'Department
New York Mets

Shea Stadium
Flushing, NY 11368

New York Yankees
Yankee Stadium
Bronx, New York 10451

photos, schedule

' Bumper Sticker

Individual photos of

, players (25¢ each)

0 Everything YOu Want-

ed To Know About
Dodger Stadium
brochure

Decal

Bumper Sticker (as
available)

Schedule

Novelty List

Postcard/ autographed
photos

Decal

Schedule

Price List

Autographed pictures.
of players .

Bumper Sticker

Schedule

Decal

Bumper Sticker
Decal . ‘
Autographed pictures

Fan Mail

St. Louis Cardinals
Busch Memorial Stadium
250 Stadium Plaza

St. Louis, MO 63102

San Diego Padres
Box 2000 ‘

” San Diego. CA 92120

San Francisco Giants
Candlestick'Park
San Francisco. CA 94124

Fan Mail

Seattle Mariners
Box 4100

Seattle, WA 981 04

Texas Rangers/Souvenirs
Box 11 11 .
Arlington. TX 76010

 

 

 

 

Pamphlet - Player
photos, signatures,
roster, schedule

Decal

Schedule

Team photos (as
available) .
Postcard photOs of . .
individual players (as
available) .
Price List

Schedule
Price List

Decal a
Bumper Sticker
Schedule ‘ ' _
Autographed Sheets -
Price List ’

Decal ‘ 1,
Team/Picture _

Photo poster - photos
of players with auto-
graphs (available dure
ing season only)

Schedule
Decal ‘ _
Souvenir Price List

 

 




 

\ f
l \" I.) 4

[12

‘ FREEBIES

 

 

it seems like the deadline for filing
tax forms always puts an unwanted
pressure on family finances that are

. just reCovering from Christmas ex-

penses. In this Special Report. FREE-
BIES would like to show you how to
get a momentary reprieve from that
April 16th filing deadline and give
yourself a bit more breathing room.

Despite federal efforts to simplify
the information sheets and tax form.
it is-still extremely difficult for most
of us to comprehend exactly what

. our rights and responsibilities ac-

tually are. The information pre-
sented here is designed to help you

understand just what privileges you

are guaranteed by law and how to
take advantage Of a few of the little
known statutes that may benefit
your burdened budget.

You may discover that you’ve been

' paying taxes on money that could

actually have, been claimed as a
deduction. or that you have a refund
coming for a miscalculatiOn that you

_ made in paying last year’s taxes. This

brief guide do'esn’t take long to look

-,over, and may show you how to claim

some real cash dividends you never
knew you had coming. .
So. instead of blindly paying the

' bottom line on the short form, look

into your finances a bit more care-
fully. This guide shows you how to
easily get the extra time that this

* may take. It may prove well worth
, your while.

 

8e9 OF \nSh‘UCUons) 2-0
2)

     

 

 

 

 

 

r_1' ii- 5

 

 

 

’2. {A.-a~.‘“n

 

sion from April 16 to June 15. It’s
not necessary to give a reason. Sim-
ply-file Form 4868 by April 16.

Payment of tax due must be
made by April 16 to avoid penalties
and interest. If the tax calculatibns
cannot be completed. the tax due
should be estimated and payment
made with the extension form.

6% interest will be charged from
April 16 on any amount paid “after
that. (Interest is deductible.) If the
final payment is more than 10% of
the amount due, there’s also a pen-
alty (not deductible) of 1/2% per
month of the unpaid amount.
Further Extension - It is possible to
get an additional extension if the
extended deadline of June 15 can-
not be met. But that’s not automatic.
It must be requested (Form 2688).
The maximum additional extension
is four months. The reason for the
request must be given.

Reasons that have been accept-
able to the IRS in the past:

0- Death or serious illness of the
taxpayer or a member of his im:
mediate family.

O Financial. records destroyed by
fire, accident 'or a move.

0 Death or- serious illness of the
tax preparer or advisor.

,0 Changes in the tax law.

Penalties for Not Filing - If the re-
turn is not filed on time and no
extension has been granted. the late ‘
filing penalty is 5% per month of the
tax due. (Maximum penalty: 25%).
Important: Penalties are not deduct-
ible. The penalty may be waived by
the IRS for exceptionally good -
reasons.

. Deliberate failure to pay on time
(in effect, borrowing money from the

federal government at 6%. with the

interest deductible and only a small
nondeductible penalty) could be the
basis for a criminal charge against
the taxpayer of willful failure to pay
income taxes.

State Taxes ~ It may be necessary to
request a separate extension for the
state income tax. In many states.
however, a federal extension auto-
matically applies to the state return, ‘
too.

 

 

. ‘ _ ' _ ' . ., l ‘ NUMBER THIRTY-POUR ‘ 4 ‘ U ' ' .. {13‘
The FREEBIES. Special Report
A Tm Situation . Automatic Extension - Any taxpay- .
' It’ s tax time again. If you’ re like me, 1 er can get an automatic filing exten- IRS List of Publications“

' 17 Your Federal Income'Tax ’1

54 Tax Guide for US. Citizens Abroad - .
334 Tax Guide for Small Business ' ) .'
501 Exemptions . v .
502 Medical and Dental Expenses
503 Child Care
504 Tax Info for Divorced/Separated Individuals

505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
' 506 Income Averaging .

508 Educational Expenses

509 Tax Calendar .

516 U. S. CitiZens Employed Abroad

521 Moving Expenses

522‘ Disability Payments

523 Sale and Purchase Of Your HOme

524 Credit for the Elderly ‘

525 Taxable and Nontaxable Income

526 Charitable Contributions

527 Rental Property

529 Miscellaneous Deductions

530 Tax Info for Homeowners

531" Reporting Tips

533 Self-Employment Tax

534 Depreciation

535 Business Expenses and Operating Losses

537 Installment and Deferred- -Payment Sales

538 Accounting Periods and Methods ,

539 ,Withholding Taxes and Reporting Requirements

542 Corporations

544 Sales and Other Disposition of Assets

545 Interest Expense

547 Disasters. Casualty Losses and Theft

552 Recordkeeping Requirements and List of Tax
Publications »

553 Highlights of 1980 Chan es in Tax Law

554 Tax Benefits for Older Americans

556 Audit of Returns. Appeal Rights and Claims

for Refund ‘ *
559 Federal Tax Guide for Survivors, Executors, and
Administrators
560 Self-Employed Retirement Plans .
561 Valuation of Donated Property
587 Business Use of YOur Home
903 Energy Credit ’

“ This information was gathered from Publication 61 9 (Revised 12- 79) “Helpful
Tax Literature .for 1980filing period." It is only a partial listing. U you have a
speciﬁc or unique situation, we suggest that you consult the complete list or
go to your local IRS office.

 

 

 




'14

FREEBIES '

 

, Features V

!

 

Snaps, Patterns and Zip

If you’re interested in needles and
thread, then you also need to know
about Various types of fasteners.
Here’s a packet of freebies that -
shows how to finish off your sewing
projects with Velcro fasteners and

s hard-to-reach places or for many .
utility uses around the house.
There’seven a pattern for a coin
purse made With Velcro. ~

Other leaﬂets discuss which type
of threads are available, and advis-
able. when you’re undertaking a .
sewing project. The right needles are

different types of zippers. It includes important. too. and you’ll find out

a collection of patterns for creative
sewables that make useful personal—
ized gifts for others, or yourself.

One leaﬂet displays the dozens of
ways that you can employ the in-

. credibly versatile fastener. Velcro.

Available in strips. tabs and spots. I

Velcro can be the ideal fastener for

‘ which is preferable for your specific
needs. You’ll also learn how to in-
stall zippers with detailed instruc-
tions for inclusion in many types of
clothing. -

If you’re looking for a good idea.
the .packet includes eight complete
patterns. A totebq made from yOur
old jeans, a bike pack. coin purse.

 

 

tennis racket cover,a TV pillow and
more are easy to make. They. can be
great personalized gifts to friends and
lots Of fun for you to create.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Consumer Packet

' Mail To: Talon Consumer

Education
477 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10022

 

Info Leaflet

(Free Horses and Burros

Here’s'an offer from the US. Depart-
ment of the Interior that 'costs you
no bucks but. can put a few in your
own back yard. They are in the
process of distributing some of the
over 70,000 wild horses and burros

that now roam public lands in much
: of the West. These huge herds have

increased to the point that they

' must be limited for their own good.

And it may turn out good for you.
too. . _ .

So You'd Like To Adopt a Wild
Horse or Burro? is an information
leaﬂet that Will answer all your

 

beast of burden or just a few four-
legged friends to'populate your barn-
yard, send for this information pack-
'et from the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment. You may find that domesticat-
ing a wild animal is a fulfilling,

' Sewing Packet

Dream Weaver

 

All About Wool

Are you tired of going into a weaving
store and having some fast-talking
salesperson pull the wool over your
eyes? Here’s a chance to learn a
great deal about sheep and their

, precious coat without having to buy

a thing.

The Straw into Gold catalog for
1981 will introduce you to the world
of fine wools and weaving as well as

' show you how to easily and inexpen-

sively obtain materials you need for
any project. It discusses dozens of
different types of wool (camel hair,
cashmere, llama top. etc. in addition
to silk. cotton and various yarns.)
You’ll find yourself learning a great
deal as you browse, through this vast
selection of materials available by

'mail order.

‘You can also find information on
dyes, both natural and synthetic.
spinning equipment, all types of
small tools for weaving and a big
selection of patterns and books
available to help you.

Weaving, knitting and crochet are
ancient means of keeping warm with
the abundant offerings of our friend

. the sheep. Techniques for working

and spinning yarn are fascinating as
well as lots of fun. If you’re inter-
ested in learning more about this
time-honorediart. this catalog is a
great place to start. And when you go
into that weaving store in the future,
you’ll not be ﬂeeced.

Directions: Send 50¢ postage and 7
handling -
Ask For: Straw into Gold Catalog
Mail To: FREEBIES Special Offer
Straw into Gold
- 5533 College Avenue
Oakland, CA 94618

_ grade sheets. grocery checkout lines,

 

 

NUMBER THIRTY-POUR

15_,.'

 

Freebies for Teachers ,

IBM Educational Materials

Kit for Nutrition Education

 

 

Information Please

Information processing is one of the
fastest growing industries in Amer-
ica. Utility bills. attendance and

electronic scoreboards—computer
technology permeates our lives.
De—mystify the Electronic Age for
you and your 'students. IBM pub-
lishes dozens of books, pamphlets
and learning aids on topics related
to its business and its products. A '
selection of those currently available
are listed in IBM Educational
Materials. Career opportunities. the
computer, energy and conservation,
IBM systems, and science and math-
ematics are categorized according to
age level and interest group.
Included are: “House of Cards,” an
actual 52-card deck which can be
used to construct a symbolic card
computer showing the basic func-
tions of a stored program computer;
“‘Hexpawn,” a simple board game
which demonstrates how a' machine
may be programmed to improve its
ability to solve problems through
trial and error; and a 12-foot wall
chart which presents brief biograph-
ies of the world’s leading mathe-
maticians‘from the year 1000 to
1900 and the significant hiStorical
events which inﬂuenced? them.
' Several booklets and educational
aids suggest recycling projects and

ways to conserve energy. Posters and ‘

light switch stickers remind us to
“Think Conservation.” .

All of these educational materials
are available free of charge from
IBM. Information for ordering films
and accompanying texts is also
listed. _ '

Directions: Send a long SASE
Ask For: IBM Educational Mate-
. rials catalog .
Mail To: Educational Materials

International Business

Baking Institute

   

The American Institute of Baking
has organized a series of teacher’s

1 projects, art activities andfilm strips

enable you to expand the use of
these materials to fit your lesson

plans. And, you stimulate your

students’ interest in good foods, -.

good; nutrition and good health. 0
Among the materials available are:

Bread in the Making, a 16-page

narration by children and the baker

of a trip through a modern bakery;

. Eat and Grew Slim, a 32-page guide
'to weight Control based upon a '

ﬂexible plan of exercise and recom-

- mended pOrtions of familiar, Well-
‘liked foods. As a supplement, Food-

?way to Follow includes a poster of
the essential “food groups. notebook—
size posters. plus a diary-type work-

‘ sheet for plotting food intake from

the four essential food groups in .
relation to body height and weight. ,
The Wonder of You is an elementary
nutrition handbook and laboratory
manual suitable for high school. The
story of digestion and changes foods ‘ 0
undergo before their energy is re- ' ‘ '
leased becomes a personalized story
When used with the accompanying
diet charts.

The Food Mobile conSists of cut-
outs Of favorite. foods together With a
guide for assembly and use. Omis-

‘ sion of any essential food causes a

loss of balance in the mobile and
likewise in the daily food intake. An
excellent visual aid for elementary .
grades! . _.

Among the home" economics _
educational material is a ‘series of
notebook inserts: ABC’s of Bread.
Storage, Bread Stuffing Guide;
Cutting Guide for Batter Cakes,
and Quantity Guide for Using?
Bakery Foods. The‘filmstrips. ’
Modern Sandwich Methods for _
Quantity Food Service and Modern -
Sandwich Methods complement the '
loose-leaf inserts. , ' . ‘ ’

Formore information abOut the
teacher’s kits and supplementary

r 7 adopt as many as four animals. You

 

uestions about how this pro ram . .
gorks. how you apply for thesg free profltfablelexperience ﬂ.” you and
animals and what sort of facilities your ami y. ,

. are needed to qualify. Any American Directions: Send a long SASE

. iseligible for the program and may Ask For: So You’d Like To Adopt a
' Wild Horse or Burro? ‘
can’t sell the animals or use them um To: Adopt-A-Horse

educational materials, and for a
complete publications list:

kits and supplementary teaching
aids on nutrition education and ‘ .
home economics which are collated r Directions: Send a postcard?

Machines CorpOration
Armonk, NY 10504 ‘

by grade and subject matter. The
rainbow assortment includes recipe
booklets, quantity food guides.
personal nutrition worksheets, ‘

Ask For: Ordering Materials .
Mail‘To: Amer’ an Institute-of
. Ba 'ng [ ‘ "
. Communications Dept.

for commercial purposes. but you Bureau of Land . puzzleS, and a‘life-size food mobile. , 1213 B k‘ W
can trainithem for a lifetime Of Management Alternative activities for science I a er s ay

   

enjoyment and service Manhattan, KS 6é502

P.O. Box 25047
If you are looking for a powerful

Denver, co 80225'

 

experiments, reading and writing

 




 

" Charts 82. Menus

FREEBIES ‘

 

 

Fltne‘ss Plan
You've already been told a zillion f
times that most crash diets don’t

work for long‘ because they don‘t
change the habits which made you

fat in the first place. The main thing

is that most diets—crash or other-

wise—don’t, include a daily-routine of .

aerobic activity to help you burn

- calories and to turn up your body’s
“thermostat.” That's why The Fit.-
ness Plan That Fits You from '
Carnation makes so much sense.
This booklet contains over 60 pages
of ﬂexible exercise and meal sched-
ules. plus a chart to record your
progress. ‘ - 1

. Begin with The Four-Day Fast Start.
a limited fast plus a 30-minute walk
anywhere. Get to know your neigh-

- , borhood! Next. The Nenty—One Day

   

' Vin-Depth Info , .

Option Flam-which involves selecting-

an aerobic activity to suit you Walk.
run. swim. bicycle tap dance—what-

" ever seems fitting. BUT DO IT. Your-
, heart rate is the only coach you

need; it tells you how to set your
eXercise rate. Pace yourself to your .
age-adjusted ' exercise heart rate—the»
booklet tells you how. If you've cho-
sen jogging, for example. you may
have to slow to a brisk walk to keep
your heart rate down within the
proper range. ‘ ’ .

The Wenty-One-Day Menu Option
Plan is 25 pages of sensible meal
choices. Have bre st for dinner or
vice versa. as lonéﬁEyou eat the
recommended porti s.

‘ A few tips: Hide your bathroom
scale. Increased exercise means

denser, heavier tissue. Take measure- ,

merits instead. And if you have to

 

binge on cheesecake or some other
“forbidden favorite.” do it at a res-
taurant so that-you don’t have the
rest tempting you each time you
open the refrigerator. . ‘
A chart in the back of the booklet
is for recording your exercise pro-
gram and measurements. Mean busi-
ness. Write it down! At the end of 21
days you should be motivated to go
foranother 21 and another

. Rememember. Obesity is nomyster-

ious disease. We can prevent it. We
can heal ourselves. _ _-
Directions: Send 75¢ postage and
‘ "handung . ' ‘

Ask For: The Fitness Plan That

Fits You
Mail To: Slender Diet Booklet

‘ Department X ~

P.O.Box 1‘20 .

Pico Rivera, CA 90665

  
  

 

. Your Kidneys

Your kidneys are your body’s cleans-
ing and filtering system. Bones may

break, other organs may malfunction.
' infections may send you to bed for a
few days, but if your kidneys fail,
death invariably follows in two to ’
three weeks unless intensive medical
care and specialized treatment tech-
niques are available.

Formore information about the
kidneys, diseases of the kidneys and
' . present day treatment. you may want
to send for any of these pamphlets
available through the National Kid-
ney Foundation of Southern
California: ’ '

Your Kidneys: MasterChemists of
the Body: a 24-page booklet which
details kidney functions, kinds of '
diseases; concise descriptions and
discussion.

Six\Wamin'g Signs of Kidney
Disease: card lists visible symptoms.

8 7 ' i Your Kidneys and How To Detect

Kidney Disease: diagrams of renal
and urinary tract with accompany-
ing explanations of what the kidneys
are, how they function and what
happens when they fail. _

.- 1 Polycystic Kidney Disease: a slowly
_ progressive hereditary disease in

 

which cysts form in the kidneys.
gradually squeezing the normal
tissue until the organs lose their
ability to function; indications of the
disease, effect on life; current treat-
ment. ’

‘ Childhood Nephrosis, A Primary. ‘

Kidney Disease: excess protein in
the blood-symptoms. diagnostic
tests, treatment. research.

About Kidney Stones: What they
are. howthey form. symptoms.
diagnosis. treatment. prevention.

How Can Urinary Tract Obstruc-

» tions Affect You?: Detailed diagram

of the urinary tract; explanatiOn of
blockage caused by injury. bacterial

. infection and disease outside the

kidneys; congenital and acquired ’
obstruction; diagnosis of kidney fail-
ure and uremic poisoning.

 

, Acute Glomerulonephritis: kidney

diseaSe occurring in children and
young adults as a result of strepto-
coccal infection of the throat or skin;
symptoms, diagnosis, treatment.
chronic cases.

CAPD: A New Alternative in Dial-
ysis: Continuous Ambulatory Peri-
toneal Dialysis, an alternative to

dialysis or kidney transplantation.

YourDriver’s License Could Save

' Someone’s Life: 9’3 and A’s about , .

the voluntary Anatomical Gift‘ Act
whereby your blood, corneas. kidneys
and other vital organsand tissues ,
can be donated after death. In
California, aisticker on your driver’s
license may enable someone else to
live.

Help the Kidney‘Foundation. Give
the Gift of Life: outlines problems
of kidney disease; research, “Gift of
Life” Organ, Donation Program; pa-
tient and community services; public
and professional education; and lists
of publications. .

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Publications by name
Mail To: National Kidney Founda-
tion of So. Calif.
6820 La Tijera Blvd.
Suite 1 1 1 _ ,
Los Angeles, CA 90045

I FeelGood. i

 

Look Good

Human Carcinogens

NUMBER THIRTY-FOUR

i

 

Vi7a'_

‘ I
.
V ‘ V
. ‘ I. .
|

Cancer Hotllne '

Everything deesn’t cause cancer. But
how can we tell which chemicals
cause cancer and which ones don’t?
This is one of many questions people
ask about the most feared of human
diseases.

Everything Doesn’t Cause Can-
cer eXplains that cancer is actually
many different diseases with many
causes. Moshhuman cancers prob-
ably are caused in part by environ-
mental factors. Cancer-causing
agents. called carcinogens, include
certain man-made and natural
chemicals which may be found in .
small quantities in air, water, food
and the work place. They also in-
clude x-rays, sunlight. and certain
viruses.

It is not true that everything
causes cancer or that theproblem is
hopeless. Relatively few substances
cause cancer. Most chemicals, even
the most toxic. are not carcinogenic.

Identifying agents that cause can-
cer in people is difficult because
suspected carcinogens are tested on
laboratory animals, not people. But
direct human exposure to cancer-

' causing substances has often

occurred, nevertheless, and the Na-
tional Cancer Institute can study '
exposed populations. For example.
people who have been exposed to
tobacco smoke or asbestos develop.
after many years. a higher frequency
of cancer of the lung and other '
organs than unexposed people. From
such population studies, the re-
searchers at the NCI have identified

 

Some carcinogens can be‘avoided by individuaI
choice.

 

 

Human cancersaus'ually don’t appear until 5 to 40
years after exposure. ‘

about 30 agents as human carcin—
‘ ogens.

Tests on laboratory animals can
identify substances that are likely to
be human carcinogens. Agents that
cause Cancer in animals are likely to
cause cancer in humans. Carcino-
gens produce a tumor more fre-
quently in exposed animals than in
unexposed control animals. Non-car-
cinogens, by contrast, do NOT pro-
duce tumors. 1 '

And what is the best way to
prevent cancer? We must make
EVERY EFFORT to reduce or elimi-

nate human exposure to carcinogens.

This effort applies toxsubstances
knoWn to cause cancer in humans.
especially tobacco smoke. It also
applies to substances that‘ are sus-

pected of causing cancer in humans.

Because everything does NOT cause
cancer, such an approach to cancer
prevention is reasonable and work-
able. ? . .

Cancer Information Services pro-
vides toll-free telephone answers to
your questions about cancer causes.
prevention, diagnosis and treatment.

Alaska: 800 638-6070

California (from area codes 213,
714 and 805): 800 252-9066

Colorado: 800 332-1850 .

Connecticut: 800 922-0824

Delaware: 800 523-3586

District of Columbia: 202 232-2833

‘ Florida: 800 432-5953

Hawaii: Oahu: 536-01 1 1 ..
Neighbor Islands: Ask Operator
for Enterprise 6702 .

Illinois: 800 972-0586 .

Kentucky: - 800 432-9321

Maine.- 800225-7034

Maryland: 800 492-1444

Massachusetts: 800 952-7420

Minnesota: 800 582-5262

Montana: 800 525-0231 4

New Hampshire: 800 225-7034

New Jersey: 800 523-3586 '

New Mexico: 800 525-0231

New York State: 800 462-7255

New York City: 212 794-7982

North Carolina: 800 672-0943

Ohio: 800 282-6522

Pennsylvania: 800 822-3963

Texas: 800 392-2040

Vermont: 800 225-7034

Washington: 800 552-7212

Wisconsin: 800 362-8088

Wyoming: 800 525-0231

'All other states: 606 638-6694

Directions: Send a postcard ,
Ask For: Everything Doesn’t Cause
Cancer -
Mail To: Office of Cancer
Communications — ,
National Cancer Institute
Bethesda, MD 20205.

. Ca

 

The risk of cancer-may be increased when people
' are exposed to Several carcinogens atcthe same
time.




 

' 18

 

Questions Answered

FREEBIES

Features .

Sample Newspaper.

 

Patents 8: Trademarks

The cornerstone of our free enter-
prise system is that it allows an
individual to start and own a
business. Our government guaran-
tees this right cf ownership through
patent and trademark laws. Here are
a couple of freebies from Uncle Sam
that give a good general overviewof '
patent and trademark regulations so
that anyone can have a good idea of
the federal protection available to

_' , safeguard a good idea.

' Q and A.About Trademarks pro-‘
vides the official definition of a ‘
trademark and explains who may
’ obtain registry and how. This is
foreign territory to most entrepre-
neurs so this basic information may

prove a good education. Reference to '

‘ » additional information will show you
how- to obtain answers to more
specific questions should. they arise.
. Q and A About Patents is also
designed to answer the preliminary
questions of anyone desiring exclu-
sive right to a development or inven-
tion. Patent laws are complex. but
with this booklet as a guide, the
_ means of application and general

rights of ownership are clarified.

So, before you build that better
mouse trap, make sure you know'the

legal ropes of the business end with, ‘

these freebies.

IRA

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Desired materials

Mail To: Commission on Patents
‘and Trademarks
Washington, D.C. 20231

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,E'

 

 

 

 

CM:

 

 

 

 

Planning for Your Future

As anyone who has retired will
quickly tell you, the time to think
about your retirement is now, not
after you retire, With inﬂation runs
ning at record levels, that advice is

even more true today. _
' But how do you go about planning
your retirement? Andwhy should
you sacrifice even a little now to
receive later? ‘

These questions and. others are
ansWered in The Individual Retire-
ment Account Option, published by
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corpo-
ration, a government agency estab-
lished by Congress in 1974.

The ABC’s of the IRA are carefully
~ explained in the free booklet. Essen-
tially, the IRA is a personal retire-

ment plan that allows a person to
enjoy tax benefits while building a
retirement savings. But, like any
federally supervised program, there
are certain restrictions which must
be observed. All of these—eligibility,
opening and closingprocedures, tax
laws, etc. -_—are explained in clear,
concise statements. Even if you
already have a pension plan through
your current place of employment,
information about the IRA is a must
for everyone who doesn’t want to
leave the future to chance.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: The Individual Retirement.

Account (IRA) Option
Mail To: PBGC . .
' 2020 K Street, NW
Branch of Control ,
Washington, D.C. 20006

I

 

 

To Gain a Phrase

. ”is _
w 1

        

‘ 9 't ' :1“;

What would you do if someone tried .
to pay off a debt by giving ’you a two
dollar bill with a picture of steam-
ship inventor Robert Fulton on the
back side.” .

Well, if you’re Smart, you say,
“Thank you,” pocket the bill and
head for yournearest coin collector,
being careful not to let a smile show
until you are out of sight. You have
just. received a very rare and valuable
piece of currency. .

Collectable coins and bank notes,
such as the Fulton 332 silver certifi-
cate, are among the best investments

possible in today’s inﬂation-ridden

money market. Some particularly
precious coins recently sold at
auction for over $750,000 and all
manner of rare andunusual vintage
mOney is worth an inflated price in
today’s market. Coin collecting is
serious business, not a hobby.

The Numismatic News recognizes ;

the importance of information in

any investment field and has de-- 7
voted itself to providing the coin ‘
collector with a weekly 'newsmaga-

zine concerning all developments
within the field. A coin market ex-
change (classifieds) is included in

, each issue. as is information on
developing trends in the world and

domestic markets. What will the
election of Ronald Reagan to Presi-
dent mean to coin prices, for
example.

Six issues are free as a trial sub-

 

Directions: Send a postcard

' Ask For: Numismatic News sample

subscription

Mail To: Numismatic News
700 E. State Street ‘
Iola, WI 54990

 

Indoor Plants

NUMBER THIRTY-FOUR
Maintenance Guide

 

19" “

 

Making Light of It

If you live in Hawaii, it’s a cinch to

keep a green and ﬂowerful garden all.

year ’round. But if you live in
Wisconsin, conditions are not the
same. In most climates, plants have
to either go dormant or go indoors
to survive certain seasons. This .
freebie is dedicated to the growing
number of America’s indoor
gardeners. '

The Inside Story on Growing

Plants is an excellent guide dealing .

with indoor gardening. It can be of
value .to the beginner or to the
veteran green-thumber. This guide
discusses the best containers, water-
ing practices, feeding schedules,

\ insect controls and the best environ— “
ments for successful indoor cultiva-

tion. One of themost important
elements of that environment is
lighting, andthe pamphlet discusses
proper indoor lighting systems at ‘
length. ,

Seeds can be germinated, young
plants sprouted and mature ﬂowers
brought to bloom, all under artificial
light sources. “The Inside Story on
Growing Plants” discusses the most
popular species of houseplants and
indoor ﬂowers, and tells you what
sorts of lighting conditions are
favored by each. It shows you exactly
how to start seedlings and bring
them up strong so that you-can have

a blooming‘ garden of plants, flowers, ..

fruits and vegetables no matter what
the weather is doing outside your
home. ' '

Directions: Send 25¢ postage and
handling '
Ask For: The Inside Story on
Growing Plants
Mail To: Duro-Lite Lamps Inc.
Department F
1 7-10 Willow Street
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410
\

 

chain saw Checklist

A chain saw can make the difference

between a big supply of winter wood ~

and big firewood bills. A properly

maintained saw can give you years

and years of service whether'you’re -'
clearing fallen trees orlaying in a
store of -wood to keep. the home’fires
burning. This free guide, Chain Saw
Maintenance Manual, can make the
difference between a safe, smooth-
running, long—lasting chain and a
dangerous, inefficient one.

This 36-page pamphlet is a thor-
ough lookat your chain saw. It ‘
covers such subjects as how to buy a

chain saw and how to maintain it. In '
addition, the booklet provides a

safety guideline and rules of opera-
tion. It also explains how to guard
against bucking and kickback by
using the saw as it is intended.

With diagrams and clear language,
you’ll, learn about preventive main- ‘
tenance, standard chain saw upkeep.

' appropriate chain selection, chain

sharpening and repair. A complete

trouble shooting guide will help you
. solve any problems with your saw as

they develop, before they become
more serious, and more costly. . ..

This one booklet is alli‘you need to
get to know your machine, and know .
it you must if your chain saw is to’ be
the valuable, long-lasting tool it was:
meant to be. '

Directions: Send a postcard ,
Ask For: Oregon Chain Saw Main-
. tenance Manual
Mail To: Oregon ChainSaw Div-.1
‘ Omark Industries .
’9701 SE. McLaughlin ,
Boulevard
Portland, "OR 97222

  

 

 

Projects Manual

 

In Your Court

The legal system is something that
most of us would like to have as
little to do with as possible. We’re
content to let other people worry
about the institution of justice and
.how our court system is functioning.
Only when we are directly affected .
do we lament its ills and inequities.
This freebie is intended to change

the Situation. to help citizens’ groups-

observe our court system and to play
a role in, improving it. ‘
Citizens’ Court Projects Manual
was developed by the Fund for Mod-
ern Courts, a non-profit court reform
organization in the state of New -
York. It details programs for training
and placing citizens in courtrooms
that they may monitor and assess
the effectiVeness or weaknesses Of
the court’s operation. The manual is~

‘ intended to convince the general

public that it should not stand
outside the justice system, but

; rather take an active, intelligent ‘role'

in making sure that it is ‘a just,-
efficient one. ‘ - ,

In the manual are model training .
programs to educate citizens, farms
and guidelines for meaningful obser-
vation and evaluation, and extensive
material on how to organize and
administer such a citizen's program '
from day one. If you’re interested in
safeguarding one of America’s most
cherished institutions, this freebie is .
an excellent place to begin.

Directions: Send a postcard ,

Ask For: Citizens’ Court Projects
Manual ' . , '

Mail To: Fund for Modern Courts
36 West 44th Street
New York, NY 10036-
Att: Diane Scalesse

 

 




  

l'named architect for beauty and
‘ durability and a detailed set of .»

Construction'Plans

All Hands on Dock

With spring on its way and summer
not far behind, there’s no better time
'for a project ‘designed to improve the
utilization and enjoyment of your

- backyard. .

Garden Living and Storage, pub-

, lished by the Western Wood Products

ASsociation of Oregon, has several ‘
ideas for backyard projects, ranging .
from redwood decks to storage sheds.
Each project was designed by a

instructions for framing and other»
assembly procedures are included to
give even the most inexperienced
novice a good head start. Detailed

' Memes

. Features

plans for all the projects. are also
available by special request.

Some of the more inventiVe de-
signs include a garden house and
deck which has sliding doors to
provide for locked storage, a firewood
rack and storage shed, arbors of
various styles and a gazebo with. bar

- and garden storage. ,
’ Directions: Send 50¢ postage and

handﬂng \
Ask For: Garden Living and Storage

Mail To: Garden Living and

Storage .
Dept. P-15
2500 Yeon Building
Portland, OR 97204

Free Sampler
Microwave Guide

The Science of cooking ‘with micro-
Wave technology is bringing a whole
methodolOgy to the kitchen. Tech-
niques for cooking certain dishes in
*a microwave oven can differ drastic-
ally from conventional methods.
Basic Microwaving explains these
techniques (such as shielding) and
gives basic recipes'which utilize
some or all of the new principles
involved in microwave cooking. _
Whether you already have a micro-
wave oven, or are considering getting
one, this guide will quickly brief you
an the procedure for cooking most of

your favorite meals. Recipes include
eggs, bacon, bacon stix, ham-
burgers, nachos, shrimp in garlic
butter and brownies.

A few experimental tests for
shielding (using metal to reﬂect the
cooking rays in certain areas) are
also included. ' -

Ask For: Basic Mi‘Crowaving
Directions: 'Sendwia postcard
Ask For: Basic Microwaving
Mail To: Basic Sampler Offer
Publication Arts

' 5700 Green Circle Drive
Minnetonka, MN 55343

 

   
 

////

\

\\\

\(\

\

\\\\\§\
\\

//////,

//

,V//,///

§§§§§
that

\\

  
  
 

//

 
    
     
           
    

 
 
     
       
        
       
   
     
   
    
      
       
    
 

     
    

\\

///

 

 

 

 

An Exercise Program

Walk, Don’iRun

I Did you know that the mostpopular

form of exercise in America-the
world, for that matter—dOesn’t re-
quire any special equipment, not
even running shoes? That’s right.
nothing except you. ‘ .

What is this mysterious activity?
Walking, of course. But while walk-
ing is certainly the simplest form of
exercise, there are still some things
which can improve its effectiveness.
And that is the purpose of Walking
for Exercise and Pleasure, a
pamphlet by the President’s Council

* on'Physical Fitness and Sports. This
7 booklet contains information on

'warm-up exercises, advice on dis- ,
tance and pace and tips for proper
posture. ‘ ' .

Often dismissed as being “to
easy” amidst the surge of more . y
strenuous sports like handball and
running, walking has recently gained
new respect as a means of improv-
ing physical fitness. Studies show
that, when done briskly and on a
regular basis, walking can improve
the body’s ability toconsume oxygen.
lower the heart rate, reduce blood
pressure, increase the efficiency of
the heart and lungs and burn off

' calories. A major university study

found that jogging a mile in 81/2
minutes consumed only 26 more
calories than walking a mile in 12
minutes.Nearly half of America's 152
million adults (18 years and over)

. claim they exercise regularly and two-

thirds of that figure list walking as
one of their activities. Nearly 35
million adults walk for exercise every
day.

You don’t really need to throw
away your. tennis racket or running
shorts, but you might just find that
walking is a pleasant way to both
fitness and relaXation.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Walking for Exercise and
' Pleasure
Mail To: PCPFS— Walking
‘ 400 6th St., SW.
Washington, D.C. 20201

if:

. mggyif“ 1 v
A- ." ‘

NUMBER THIRTY-FOUR

.217

 

  

The Easter Tree and Decorated
Eggs ' » .

Ah, Spring the Awakening New
Beginnings ..:«Portents of warm, .
sunny days to came. The farthest
thing from your mind right now is
the festive warmth of the Holiday
season with the decorations, Christ-
mas tree, scent of pine and freshly
baked cookies. Yet, why should that
wonderful spirit belong to the cele-
bration of the birth of Jesus and not
to that of His resurrection? Easter
time provides as much opportunity
for surrounding ourselves with a
festive atmosphere—if only to cele-
brate the coming of spring.

So why not an Easter Tree?
Especially for those of youwho have
waited until now to prune your fruit
trees, or who have‘a ﬂowering tree
that does not bear fruit. The buds
should be appearing just in time for
Easter this year. Bring in a few
pretty branches and secure them in
a large pitcher or crock or pot of soil.
Guess what you will use to decorate
your Easter Tree Easter Eggs!

' However. since these eggs are going

to beworks of art, you will need to
remove the contents (saving them for
later use). With a large needle or ice
pick. CAREFULLY pick a hole in one
end of the egg—it can be as large as
W inch in diameter. In the other end
you need only a tiny hole, so simply
insert the needle and remove it. Blow
into the tiny hole and the contents

will come out the larger end. (If both

holes are too small, it takes forever
to blow out the egg and you "risk
breakage.) Wash the shells careful]
and set in a carton to dry. 1

Now the fun begins! You are limit- ,

ed only by the extent of your imagi-
nation. Paint, marker pens, glue.
fabric. yarn, ‘tape, ribbon, glitter,
sequins, gift wrap, cellophane, etc.
Create characters with funny or
romantic faces, hats, hair and
collars; or beautiful geometric or
free-form designs. WhateVer strikes
your fancy. . .

- To thread the eggs for hanging on

your Easter Tree. use a needle that is ‘

longer than the egg and pass it
through the egg: in at the small end
and out at the larger one. A small
button or bead at the end of your
thread, yarn or ribbon will hold it in
place. Bows, tape or fabric will hide
the larger hole at the top. Everyone—

‘ Free’n Easy"

 

family, friends. children—can; join in
the fun of this project from creation
to‘decoration. ' ' - '

 

Now, do you need something to
put under the Easter Tree? Or on the
mantlepiece ’or coffee table? How
about something to inspire your
imagination? Remember those '
beautiful sugar eggs with the front '
end “cut off that when you looked
inside, it was sort of like peering into
Alice’s wonderland as she followed
the white-rabbit down his hole. And
the longer you looked the more you
saw? Ever wonder, “How do they do
that?” Here’s how, and your children
can help. , ‘

Sugar eggs are very easy, but you
will need some sortibf egg mold. If
you don’t want to spend the money
on one from a cooking specialty
store, try the plastic'ones from dime
stores. They can be used year after '
year for Easter Egg hunts, too, since
they don’t spoil or get eaten by
excited» pets, and can hold special
non-sugar treats for your little
“Bunnies” to treasure.

You will need: 2 cups superfine
sugar (put regular granulated sugar
in your food processor or blender for
a few seconds-if you process it too
long you will have powdered sugar
which can be used in the icing), 3
teaspoons water and food coloring.
Mix the sugar and water in a bowl.

. with your hands if you like. Add a

TINY bit of food coloring if you want

 

  
 

‘ a colored egg. Mix until it is the \. q
‘ consistency 0f wet sand: "no lumps.
’ Pack the mixture firmly- into both. .

. You will have to adjust the drying

 

halves of the mold, filling them, to

the top. Turn them out onto a board
0r. tray to dry. After at least 2 hours, \ ‘
scoop out the centers with a spoon.

time according to the relative , , _ ‘
humidity in your area and the fsiZe of, .

your molds. If the eggs saretoo dry, ,

the walls will‘be very thick; if not dry

_ enough, you risk breakage. It will not

be difficult to judge this, and, if the

egg is not dry enough and breaks. '

you can mix it with more water,

added DROP BY DROP, and repaCk

the molds. After you scOop out the ‘

molds, carefully cut off the small tip ' ’

with a String. ' ' ’
On the bottom half. put Easter

grass, little pictures, tiny jelly beans.

chicks, bunnies, whatevertouches

your imagination. You can use a bit

of melted wax to make a basefor a

picture to stand inzdribble some ‘

wax from a candle onto apiece of . ‘ . .

foil. Let it cool until just soft enough

to insert the picture and hold while

it hardens. Carefully peel it off the

- foil and stand ,it in the egg. Use old '

greeting cards for ideas and pictures
to cut out and insert as backgrounds
or as figures standing in relief. Use '
white glue along the edge and secure
the top half ot the bottom. ’ , .
To decorate around the seam, the ‘ '
front and to add a ﬂower ,or design
to the top, mix the followingicing.‘ In
a bowl combine one egg white ‘(NO‘
yolk), 1 cup powdered sugar, 1/4: _
teaspoon cream of tartar, 1/2. cup
boiling water and food coloring if .
desired. Beat until frosting stands in .
stiff peaks (about 8 minutes). Cover ,
with a damp cloth until ready to use. '
With the decorative tip of your -

choice in place. "fill your icing bag

and add the finishing touches to a ' '
new treasure. Wrapped in plastic
and stored in a cool, dry place, these
sugar eggs will keep year after year.
Now, on Easter morning, get out
all those eggs you saved and ' '
scramble up a sumptuous breakfast;
put on some festive music and
gather your family and friends to .

, peer into your sugar eggs'land see

who can makeup the funniest... most ~

- exciting stories about What they see! ..

By Barbara. Duval

 




‘ FREEBIES

 

 

  

Crafty .WOodworkers

/

Since’1930 the Craftsman Wood ‘
Service Company has been fulfilling
dreams for woodworkers. Craftsmen.
hobbyists or those .people yearning to
use their hands will find over 4,000
items in this 145-plus4page catalog
entitled Craftsman.

If it is a special wood you are in
need of, Craftsman offers a variety—
‘ Bubinga from West Africa to Maple '
. (Bird’s Eye) from Canada. The catalog
also contains a library of books '
which answer your questions about
construction of dollhouses to re—
modeling your home. Also available '
'are power tools, shop and hand
tools, and professional carving tools
to name but a few! Listed for the ,
' extra-industrious. are Redi-cut wood
inlay kits/which, when completed.
portray beautiful country scenes or
even your astrological sign.

This easy-to-follow, one-stop mail
‘ order guide could be a real asset to
your current project or give you new-
time. enthusiasts a helpful hand in
the enjoyment'of working with wood.

, Directions: Send 50¢ postage and
' ' handung '

' Ask For: Craftsman Wood Service

. Company Catalog .
Mail To: Craftsman Wood Service

» ’ Company 4

1 737- West Cortland Court

Addison, IL 60101

 

GENUINE CARVED WOOD MOLDINGS

"Sold and ﬁned m kw loot knoll“ out-pt M050! and M0502 wh-zh or. wid m J Owl-n91!" and the bamboo
. mold-A. 10H m 34’:"lon.1iu 50! W! per past- o’vomgu ' a lb I0“. duuovm on I Oi Oi more at on. Juan

new cadeklip: moi? nouwwm $240

(I)
, Julius-Ila . m'ﬂr ‘
“I Jr'xmo" |’l,‘°wo< ,,
' ‘ “SIIV‘IM'

" 31." MN

"""""‘I I I I — ‘
.- ' m I
ma -""XV"" IlJSWK ‘)
no“: Flu/'6"

'IIIIIIIIIJ . ""’ ”"

35;. We
“Shim ........_...lu I

.99 ”we

“Jo-«x

 

IAAAAA‘
“fr” , sum-:3?

I It'll IIM‘WUI" u_5ov~x

um h" x mo" “mm“

 

~gy. 's" N." nouns ”go 9019‘

. z
.- ..-,.
_- .,.-\

nun I'I"MI|IM¢ $4.20 9""
Bantu Mold-nos MI 34'." an. - ’unm
rent-l Iw‘

 

 

 

’  Catalog Quest

 

 

24 HOUR
onoeawc
' 1313;591:9222 °"'” 520°

 

 

 

 

Auto Economy f

If you’re still nostalgic about the
sixties, one thing you’re probably
nostalgic about is‘cars. No doubt
about it—cars had a lot of pizzazz
back then! Today, cars all seem to
look alike. It’s true they are safer,
they don’t pollute and most Of them
get good gas mile e (although ‘
never, it seems, q, - te as good as they
claim), but they just don’t seem to '
have quite the sange “get up and" go”
any more. ,

Believe it or not, it’s still possible
to. have sixties performance without
sacrificing good mileage to get it. All
you need are the-right parts and
Ramchargers ‘1 981, Performance
Parts Catalog shows you how and
where to order them. They have a .
complete stock of parts Which de-
liver extra performance and good gas

’ mileage, dress—upiaccessories and

everyday replacement parts.

This catalog can be a valuable aid
to not only help your car “get up and
go” but get up, go and save fuel! ‘

Directions: $1.00 postage and
handung .
Ask For: Latest Catalog
Mail To: Ramchargers
Department FB-81
36534 Plymouth Road
Livonia, MI 48150

‘ [Illa/[1765175 ;

PERFORMANCE PARTS CATALOG-1980

36534 PLYMOUTH ROAD - UVONM, MICHIGAN “‘50 0 (313) 591~J222

Fashion Wear

Keeping up to date on'the latest in
fashion is made simple and fun with

‘a catalog put out by the folks at

Esprit.- Fashion abounds on each
glossy page of this full-color catalog.
Are you a clothes horse that leans
toward a sporty look or perhaps the
soft and feminine look is more to
your liking maybe both? No prob?
lem! The clothes featured are for any
and all sides of your personality! , -
Information about each item (includ-
ing a full line of accessories) gives

, you creative ideas on color coordina-

tion and combinations that will

; complement your wardrobe.

Careful consideration has been
given in explaining the size just
right for you and care instructions
to make that fabric look natural and
fresh. ' _

Each season a catalog is available
to you by either calling Esprit’s toll!

free number or by droppping them a

postcard.

Directions: Call or send a postcard

Ask For: Latest Catalog
Mail To: Anita Treash.
900 Minnesota Street
San Francisco, CA 94107
Toll Free No.: 800 227-3777
800 652-1516 (Calif.
residents)

 

  

,ESPRR

 

I

 

 

 

aver\

 

 

..
3?.

_ I

. NUMBER THIRTY-FOUR

23.‘

 

A Fresh Approach

No matter how fruits and vegetables
are frozen, canned, bottled or dried,-
they just don’t have as much nutri-
tion as fresh produce. Fresh Tips is
a foldeout full of tips On how to '
select the best fruits and vegetables
at the market and how to store, cook
and serve them at home for maxi-
mum food value and ﬂavor. It also
containsa collection of fresh fruit
and vegetable recipes that will keep
your family happy while you’re mak-
ing them healthy. For this leaﬂet full
of fresh ideas, send a long SASE to;
Fresh Tips, United Fresh Fruit and
Vegetable Association, North
Washington at Madison, Alex- _
andria, VA 22314.

MOVING?

, If you’re moving, please let us know

six weeks in advance. That way, you’ll
be assured of receiving your Freebies
Magazine without interruption.

FILL IN YOUR NEW ADDRESS
BELOW, AND ATTACH YOUR OLD
LABEL IN THE SPACE PROVIDED.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Old Address New Address

CH

0

co

:1

U)

.553

H

(I)

5..“

co

:5

Q—l

o

76

.0

cc .

~ cu

on c:

.5 'EG

= s.

cc

8 E

><

g E’ m -.9

<2 >. Q, 8’3 N.
E S >. 3
cc "o t: ,‘3
Z <1 D co

Mail To:
Freebies Magazine
Address Correction
PO. Box 5797
Santa Barbara, CA 93108

 

 

Free forAll

Making Conversions A ‘

If you’re planning a trip overseas
and plan on taking electrical ap-
pliances with you, here’s a freebie
you may want to look‘over. Travel-
ing Overseas? shows you a variety
of lightweight converters which may
be necessary if your razor and blow
dryer are to operate properly. This
little guide explainshOw to find out
what type of converter you will need
and how to use it correctly. Send ‘a
long SASE to: Parks Products, Inc.,
361 1 Cahuenga, Hollywood, CA
90068. ‘ "

Chocolate Lovers

Want to know more about your
favorite ﬂavor? Here’s some good
information on a ﬂavorful subject. '
Chocolate Lover's Handbook tells.
you about how chocolate is made.

how to store it, and, best of all, how

to eat it. Recipes for cocoa drinks,
frostings, cookies and cakes and a
guide to decorating with chocolate
make this leaﬂet a real help in the
kitchen. Send a lo SASE to:
Chocolate Lover’s" .. andbook, c/o
Dudley-Anderson-Yutzy, 40 West

. 57th Street, New YOrk, NY 10019.

\ . .
1'
‘ \
. / ' .

Asbestos Hazards ’

, If you’ve been exposed to asbestos '

dust, or knOw someone who’s had
prolonged exposure, this freebie
could be an important piece of , .
information. Asbestos Exposure,
What It Means, What to Do, ex- ‘
plains the potential health hazards
posed :by contact with asbestos dust.
It recommends examinatiOns for

people experiencing certain symp- . '

toms and outlines treatment and-
preventive measures which can be
followed. For this information and
nationwide toll-free numbers to get
more, send a postcard to: Public
Inquiries Section, Qtfice of Cancer

Communications, National Cancer

Institute, Bethesda, MD 20205.

Free Jet Tour

Ever wonder what goes into a big jet, .

before it gets off the ground?'You
can see for yourself at the Boeing
plant in Everett, Washington, just
north of Seattle. Free 1% hour tours
are available to the general public
when reservations are made two .‘
days in advance. Summer reServa- ,
tions require two weeks’ advance
booking. To schedule a tour, just-
call: (206) 342-4801. ,

 

'1

Coming Next Issue

\ C If you’re a boating enthusiast
like millions of other Americans,
you’ll find a host of US. Coast Guard
pamphlets written just for you.
There’s information on trailering,
federal regulations relating to recre-
ational boating, how to handle emer-
gency situations while aﬂoat and
more.

0 Fishing is one of the great
American pastimes. Basic Casting
from A to Z is an educational course
designed to teach this sport to all
thOSe who don’t yet know the joy of .
hooking into a nice one. Wall charts
of the anatomy and function of a
reel,.a library of films, teacher’s

guides, fishing tips, games with

scorecards and plenty more make
this freebie a real catch. ,

0 you can bring the ﬂavor of the
tropics to your stateside kitchen
witha collection of recipes featur-
ing the taste of coconut. Delicious
Ways to Use Cream of Coconut will

show you how to add this distinctive ,

sweetness to dozens of beverages.
main dishes and desserts.

‘0 The Gulf Oil Corporation is
proud of their history and the.
important position they occupy in.

America's industrial strength. Sever-

a1 beautiful magazines and bro: ,
chures chart the development of the
corporation from its first,weIls. in

~ 1901 to its world-wide stature in the

’80’s. Gulfs contributions and sta— .

ture, both past and, present, are sub~ "
stantial and make interesting'stu‘dy

and reading.

 

 




 

 

1' insults Magazine
P.O. Box 5797
~ Santa Barbara, CA 93108

1 1 \ . . V .
. . ,
I
s
1 . .
A

FREEBIES’ MARCH FEATURES

FREEBIES editors have selected these items as being among the best and most time 11 in this issue To use
this time saving idea, we suggest that you clip out the labels below and glue or tape them to your

 

' I' envelope or postcard. Be sure to fOIlow the mailing inStructions in order to receiVe your freebies faster

and without complications.

Send a Postcard
' Consumer Packet

l' *T ﬁlo-n— cTns'Em’é} ETitEitTon—T T- T—

-I ‘ 477 Madison Avenue ' I
I ‘ New York. NY 10022. 1:1 I
l l
L}.— i ________ -__.__ .._.... __ 7* . J
Send 25¢ postage and handling
42 Ways to Talk with Your Eyes .
l'. T 42 ﬂy? T “““““““ 'l
I ‘ PO BOX 185 I'

Ft. Worth, TX 76101 ,- ,
l
l ' I
L _____________ J
Send a Postcard
Numismatic News Sample Subscription
_ _ F T ﬁstmTa'tiETNéWs TTTTTTT T]
I 700 E. State Street I
. Iola, WI 54990
I ‘ |
I I
L _ J. ___________ J
Send a Postcard
Basic Microwaving _
I" , Basic Sampler 0112;: TTTTT T— TI
TI Publication Arts - I
1. ‘ 1 . ' i 5700 Green Circle Drive
. | , _ Minnetonka. MN 55343 I
1 T 1 I

Send a Postcard .
Recipes for Home Care Products

_ l' T PTJbﬁZ sTmE'é 9313112213811? T T T

I Department of Information _& Public Service I

Clemson University
I 1 102 Fike Street
I Clemson, SC 29631

Send 25¢ postage and handling

The Inside Story on Growing Plants .

[— TT DTir—oTLi-te Lamps, Inc. . ' T]
I Department F . I

1 7-10 Willow Street
.| Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 I
I I
L _ ____________ J
. Send 25¢ postage and handling
' Pork Buyer’ 3 Guide

I Porflnd—ustr-y 6506}; T T T l
I National Livestock and Meat Board I

_ 444 No. Michigan Avenue

| ‘ Chicago. IL 6061 1 I
l , l
L _____________ J
Send. 50¢ postage and handling

Garden Living and Storage

I” T Garden 11ng Eici'st‘é'fa‘g'é' , - 1
I _ Department P—15 ’ I

2500 Yeon Building

I Portland, OR' 97204 « \

| “ “ |
L _____________ J

 




4 " Enclosedis a marked page from the current "
VERTICAL FILE INDEX showing the l1st1ng of your
publication.”

We would appreciate your sending u s rev1ew
c0pies of any new paper-bound material you may
issue so that we may apprise librarians of its
availability. n. , 1

Thank you for your cooperation.

Katherine R. Barnes The H. W. Wilson Company
Editor ' 950 University Avenue -«”
Vertical File Index Bronx, New York 10452

 




Co 3

 

12 VERTICAL FILE INDEX

TENSION (psychology) See Stress (physiology)

TERMINAL care facilities

Hos ice movement. by Marc LeepIson. (V 2 0
nop 18) 18p ’80 Editorial rIes reps 1414 22d st
N W. Vashington D C 20037 $2. 75

Contents Treatment of terminally ill; Gov-
ernment's role in research; Movement’s fu-
ture direction.

“ 1 T-EXT book bIas

Characters in textbooks: a. review of the lit-
erature. lby Jeanbl Vgirten6be)n.3,"?2andsootltilersS
(Clearing quse pu ica ion 2 p
Comm on civil rights 1405 Eye st Washington
D C 20425 free

The items in this report are illustrative of
the most recent studies that have used valid
and reliable quantitative or qualitative meth-
odologies to examine the portrayal of minori-
ties. older persons. and females in children s
textbooks and the effects of those portrayals
on children.

Uses and abuses of analysis in the defenﬁgrgn-

vironment; a conversation 1h
Woolsey. (AEI studies 299) 25p ’80 Am enter-
prise inst for public polzicbr res 1150 17th sIt
N . WashingtonID 036 $2. 25 send pay-
ment with order

The author examines the effect of systems
analysis on weapon systems and military man-
power policies based on his experience in the
Pentagon and concludes that the approach is
beginning to outlive its usefulness

Relations (general) with Latin America

U. S. human rights policy: Latin America.,8l())})'

Richard E. Feinberg. (Rep v 6 no 1 Oct
13p ’80 Center for int policy 1.20 Maryland av
N W. Washington D C 20002 $1.50 send paY-
ment With order . . .
Summary identifies successes and fallures.
exammes thIe relatlonshm of human rights
to national security and economic develop-
ment. and assesses the organization and pIraC-’
tices of the State dehpartment in carrying out

TILES in interior decoration
Ceramic tile. at home anywhere. 16p col i1 [’77]
Tile council of Am inc Box 326 Princeton
N J 08540 500 send payment with order
This profusely illustrated booklet offers
many ideas for using tiles in every room of

the house. It points out the advantages. kinds x

of tile for various areas and includes a na- cai’gegfllgﬁuéﬁéorsgﬁgngggg sggggeBnof 1%???”

tion- wide list of distributors. sta N. Y 10022 Send 15c stamped # 10 s a.e
How- to- do-iIt guide to beautiful fuss- free walls. Adv1ce from business executives and career

or how to install ceramic wall tile. 8p 11 001 counselors on such topics as self-confidence.

il '77 Tile council of Am inc Box 326 Prince- business contracts. travel and entertainment

ton N J 08540 25c send payment with order duties. and family obligations and a career.

Leaflet covers wall preparation tools. cut-

ting. setting the tiles and grouting.

How-to- do- it guide to ultimate beaut and effi-
ciency underfoot. or how to instal that ce-
ramic tile floor yourself 8p 1] col i1 77 Tile WATER
council of Am inc Box 326 Princeton N .869 also
08540 25c send payment with order 1 tt' Drinkmg water
Leaflet includes surface tips. too s. so [1118‘ WATER. color painting

the tiles and grouting. creative watercolour techniques. by J oIhn Block- I

TOOLMAKERS lI . I I ’
ToolmIakeIrs a'nd diemakers. (Occupational brief garb ((30 efggrfv 3.2.35 S7t) 132p (£3103; $820561‘ap1ing1er

60) 4p '80 Chronicle guidance publications MO' Book describes various rocesses and com-
ravia pN Y 13118 $1.50 send payment with order binations to produce speci c effects. Different
TRANSPORTATION planning stages of demonstrationl paintings are

_ . . analyzed.

England—Citizen participation Laying a watercolour wash. by Leslie Worth.
Route cauIIses: a guide to participation in pub- (Leisure arts 4) 32p col i1'80 Tapl‘inger p-.ub
lic transport plans. by John Abbiss and Les co 132 W 22 d st N pY 100111$2 .50

LumIsdon. 39p '79 Renouf USA inc Old Post etechniques are shown b. demonstration
rd Brookfield Vt 05036 $3.15 send payment paintings in progressive stages.y

with order PaiI‘ntinIhg sea and sky in watercolour. by Leslie

Booklet explains in simple terms the pub-
lic transport planning procedure and outlines pub co (lIsmins‘qure zmjtgtsiv3§p {“3111 i1 $8050Taplinger

a way of approaching local authorities While Book gives adv1ce on how £0 capture the

it is «written for the British reader. the pro-
cedures may be applied by others. , goggisngand behavior patterns 0f the sea in

TRIAISegrggcoice Woﬂking witltis gatéezrcolournl by I'feslie Worth
. , elsuIre ar I I ' I
Defense (criminal procedure) co 132 W 22d st N Y 1001 1% $2. 5080 a'p inger pub

A discussion of colors. materials and tech-
memo is followed by six demonstration paint-
ngs with notes and illustrations for ﬁve
stages of the painting.

WEAPONSlso systems

ea
teIrcIIIontinenItal ballistic missile bases

WILDLIFE rescue
First aid and are of small animals by Ernest
. Walker. 2d ed 53p il '80 Animal Welfare
inst Box 3650 Washington: D 0 20007 $2
Booklet explains the care. feeding and re-.

human rights policies.

VOCATIONAL guidance for women

UNITED STATES

Emigration and Immigration

Should US. immigrationl policy be changed?
John Charles Daly. moderator. (AEI forum
41) 30p ’80 Am enterprise inst for public
giolicy$3 res5 1150 17th Ist N W. Washington D C

37. send payment with order
Forum 5held on June 2. 1980 considered
Whether the US. immigration policy could
be made more humane without sacrificing na-

. «'I

habilit'ation of wildlif 1m . . I-
tional interests The discussion inclIuded ques- tiles. ﬁsh and amphilgﬂi'aInzIa'sm Itaﬂpscliingsrdosut rﬁﬁe
tions of illegal aliens. refugees from oppressed valuable lessons young eople can. learn in

countries and help from other countries and

humane attitudes throug caring for animals
international organizations.

at home or in the cl.assroom'

Federal Information centers—Directories LEN

See at Employment
Federal information centers. 8p nd Nat audio- I . ' 30 ..
visual center Gen services adm Ref section] Vocational guidance. fOT' womlenI
PC Washington D C 2040 9free WOOD! as fue|
ederal information centers an’Iswer ques-
tions on federal government or help you find
the right office for the answer. They also of-
fer government publications on a number of Sea .a a
useful topics. Addresses and telephone num- Job satisfaction

bers are iven.
g WORLD economics. See Economic policy

Military policy
U. S. defense. what can we afford? ngan (Islaarles WORLD war. 1939,1945
Film catalogs

aly. moderator. (AEI forum 42) p .
enterprise inst for public polio res 1150 17th
st N W. Washington D 02036 $3. 75 send WW II: outstanding documentary ﬁlm

 

DTO-
payment with order duced b th S. o ern . 2-
n a. forum held I.June 3. 1980. the panelists i1 ’80 hirat angiovisgugl cme'nelrt 194 lggvilcleg

Ge enI
adm Ref section/PC Washington D C 20 409

{F Folder lists ﬁlms and Videocassettes avail-
able for sale.

discuss problems of underfunding. the cost
of personnel. the role of America's allies.
the effect of inﬂation. cost overruns. and wea-
ponry requirements.

 




 

 

The fo110wing information is requested for materia1s that you wish to~ -
“ considered for 1isting in the next edition of EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
‘ P1ease send two (2) copies of a11 materia1s for our f11es.

T 'TITLES: P1ease 1ist a11 items that we may inc1ude 1n the EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE
‘1 MATERIALS. If more space is needed, use the reverse side of this sheet or request
more Listing Sheets from us.

FACTS ABOUT FURS‘TFree on request to libraries

KITTENS AND CATS
YOU AND YOUR.DOG Free on request to teachers and libraries

GOOD KIND LION

RESTRICTIONS QN_DISTRIBUTION: (P1ease answer a11 questions)

 

 

 

Sing1e copies on1y A 11m1t of . copies
AvaiIab1e in c1assroom quantities? Yes No:x
Avai1ab1e to professiona1 staff on1y? Yesw X3 No“
Avai1ab1e on1y if requested on officiaI stationery? Yes )(
Distribution restricted to specific geographicaI area? (Specify)M

NO
Any other restrictions on distribution or 11mitations on quantity?

N0 .

Avai1ab1e to schooIs? Yes” XL No* ' Libraries? Ye5)( No;___'InduStries? Yes__*
Avai1ab1e to schoo1s, 1ibraries, and industries in Canada? Yes 2; No
Ava11ab1e wor1d-wide? Yes 2{_ No

QQMPLETE ADDRESS TO WHICH REQUESTS SHOULD BE DIRECTED:

 

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650

Washington: D. c- 2(1001

ZIP.Code

 

 

P1ease return this Iisting Sheet with two (2) copies of all
materia1s to be 1isted to:

Linda K. 'Keenan, Editor

EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
222 Park Avenue

Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916

4

Dead1ine for receipt of copy: December 15th

This Listing Sheet approved by:

m/ﬂ/W/ PWé/eu‘roﬂS «QC/dajoﬂ //// 7/

 

“'Signatuné Position

mam/c srgﬂ/Ja gar/{‘6’ r 29;. 337 2233;

Name typed or printed Phone (Area code and number)

 




 

Listing Sheet for Items Previously
EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS Listed in the INDEX

 

 

Your material was listed in the last edition of EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS as
o ows:

DELETE Canadals Experience with Student Use of timing Animals
Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools.

 

(see reverse side)

XXV If you would like this material to be included in the next edition of the INDEX, please

make and corrections and sign below. N0 mANGES except for the deletions noted

CORRECTIONS: Please note any corrections to be made on the above entry. Be sure to at"yve

. check address, including ZIP Code. Please delete the item if no longer available,
‘ and return form to address below.'

 

NEW MATERIALS: Please list any new materials on the enclosed white listing sheet.

 

 

 

‘~RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION: If any changes in distribution restrictions are to
be made, please note below: . A '

 

Single copies only A limit of ‘ copies per request
* Available in classroom quantities? Yesw - No . ...
Available to professional staff Only? Yesw ’ Now .

Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes 1 No
Distribution restricted to specific geographical area? ISpecify)C

 

 

Any other restrictions on distribution or limitations on quantity?

 

Available to schools? Yesw I Now Libraries? Yes No ‘ Industries?‘ Yes___ No___

—*

Available to schools, libraries, and industries in caﬁaaa? Yes No
Available world—wide? Yes No .

 

Please return this Listing Sheet with two (2) copies of all 1 g i?! w_
materials to be listed to: ' J ,_yya_ _K;,.lﬁég5g;e

I. ?
Linda K. Keenan, Editor ': ,~-», ;: _-‘ 1 I I jgjpggﬂ,,rg,ﬁ,ag,
EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE‘MATERIALS‘1 «*hg?,f'“v it “~ .,_jgsﬁgﬂi*wr”i’f"

222 Park Avenue
Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916

Deadline for receipt of copy: December 15th

This Listing Sheet approved by:

Ma/W ail/mew; @cfuérjo ////7/2’6

Signature I“ Position
SHEWL SIM/aw 584 .992— 3 3 311332.

Name typed or printed Telephone (Area code and number)

 

Date

 




 

practical parenting/November-December, 1980

 

parents {forum

When should kids have pets,
and what’s best?

 

 

I think the younger the child, the better—
the kids grow to respect animals. I think any
animal is fine, even a snake or a toad. Our
animals (a dog and chickens) are definitely
kept outside—I find that best all the way
around.

Laura Smith, Roscommon, MI

As far as I’m concerned, we can do
without pets entirely. My kids may have one
when they are TOTALLY responsible for
pet care.

Linda Merry, St. Louis Park, MN

We got a puppy when the girls were 3 and
6. After a two-months’ trial, we decided our
home was not meant for a pet. It WAS a
, good learning experience for all.
JoAnn Waldron, Cold Spring, MN

My children are 6 and 1 and they still can’t
care for the dog or the rabbit, but they sure
get a kick out of playing with them and
watching their antics. If you have a pet at
such an early age Mother usually ends up
caring for and feeding it.

Elizabeth Haase, Thonotosassa, FL

Abby (7 months) had a pet, a dog, from
the first day she got home. Muffin kindly let
her move in. Now I can’t tell who belongs to
whom. Muffin was one of the first moving
things Abby watched. On walks, Muffin
stays between the baby and any approach-
ing dogs and has snapped at dogs who have
gotten too close.

Melissa Arnett, S. Charleston, WV

No age—parents have allergies!
Carol Miles, Champaign, IL

Our oldest (6) would like a fish, but
recently realized a fish can’t be taken out
and held. Our 4-year-old loves our affec-
tionate cat and has fed him.

Cynthia Peck, Holden, MA

Grandma gave our 2-year-old three fish
for his birthday. Within a month all were
dead—but only after we had forked out for
an aquarium, to keep the cat out. I think our
child was a bit too young and needed a more
durable pet.

Janis Kiuett, Shawnee Mission, KS

Children should have pets from the very
beginning. On his first night home from the
hospital, our newborn intently watched our
black cat jump off the sofa and dart across
the room. We had worried that our four cats
and an Irish wolfhound would be resentful
and hostile to the baby, but at worst they
simply avoided his grasping hands. Our
Russian blue cat lies near David (21 months)
often and tolerates the enthusiastic, if rough,
caresses with surprising patience. Later,
we’ll deal with teaching our child to ap-
proach unfamiliar dogs and cats with caution.

Franceine Rees, Greenuille, NC

For small children, something big enough
for them to touch without hurting it, and
something able to “escape” when necessary
—-2- and 3-year-olds can be rough! Some-
thing that doesn’t need to be caged or con-
fined is more company—we stick to dogs
and cats so far.

Beuerely Spindler, Roseuille, MI

The best pets are the “stuffed ones.” No

mess!
Nedra O’Neill, Calumet Park, IL

 

 

 

 

Many free or very inexpensive booklets
on pets and pet care are available. The ones
listed below are taken from more than a
dozen described in FREE STUFF FOR
KIDS.

A postcard to Ken-L Ration Dog Care
Booklet, Box 6333, Chicago, IL 60677, will
bring a free booklet, HOW TO CARE FOR,
,TRAIN AND FEED YOUR DOG.

And two booklets, KITTENS AND CATS
and YOU AND YOUR DOG, are available
for 20¢ each from Animal Welfare Institute,

’, PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007.

The following three booklets are all avail-

I able from the American Humane Education

Society, 350 S. Huntington Ave., Boston,
MA 02130:

BIRD CARE, which tells kids how to be
the best bird owners they can be. Dept.
BCB, 55¢.

SMALL MAMMAL CARE, about the
housing, feeding, care and behavior of ger—
bils, hamsters, mice, rats, guinea pigs and
rabbits. Dept. SMC, 55¢.

THE ANGELL MEMORIAL GUIDE OF
ANIMAL FIRST AID, written by veterinar—

xians to teach people to care for pets in

emergencies. Dept. AMG, 65¢.

 

 

How to Have a Pet, According to Ephron

 

Gerbil: Ask the pet shop for two males. Wake up one morning and find six gerbils. Come home

after school and find one gerbil. Scream.

Rabbit: Pick it up. Put it down. Pick it up. Put it down. Pick it up. Put it down. Pick it up. Put it
down. Pick it up. “Would you please leave that poor rabbit in peace?” Put it down.

Kitten: Pick up by tail. Pick up by scruff of neck. When your dad says, “Don’t you think we
ought to leave the kitten alone for awhile?” Put it down. Then after checking if the coast is clear,
drop the kitten over the banister to see if, when cats fall, they always land on their feet.

From HOW TO EATLIKE A CHILD, by Delia Ephron, (Viking Press, $7.95).

It depends on the child. Dog or cat, when
the child is able to allow it to maintain its
right of freedom from persecution. Fish
provide great visual stimulation for babies.

Andrea Stone, Southfield, MI

My son (15 months) has been surrounded
by two dogs, six cats, a parakeet and a
guinea pig. He’s learning to handle them all
and isn’t frightened by anything that crawls,
barks, purrs or wiggles.

Nancy Schwindt, Denver, CO

Brian had two goldfish at 2 years and
crushed them in his hand while changing
their water. When he was 21/2, we inherited a
cat with our new home, and he loves feeding
it. He IS responsible for feeding Tweedy
Bird.

Gayle Baker, Greeley, CO

I think children need something alive, to
love, even if they have to be watched so they
don’t hurt it. They need to pour out their

love, just as we do.
Kay Hunke, Delano, MN

Why should children EVER have pets?
Cathy Kienzle, Bow Island, Alberta

 




practical parenting/November-December, 1980

 

forum [parents {forum

 

In our situation, it’s similar to a “pecking
order.” When Mom’s around and so are
Nana and Poppy, Mom makes the decisions.
When I’m gone, Nana and Poppy decide
what to do. When just Great Grandma’s
there, she makes the decisions—no matter
whose house we’re all occupying. I was open
and honest with my folks, and that was what

was decided.
Gayle Baker, Greeley, CO

It is a struggle, but I try to stay in charge.
Sometimes you just have to Stress that it’s
your child and you will raise him or her the
way you want.

Carolyn Snyder, Dayton, OH

When we visit the grandparents, everyone
is in charge! I try to keep everyone under
control, and Grandma helps after awhile
when things get too loud.

Nancy Quick, Ellisuille, IL

I took my children to Chicago to
visit my mother and all my relatives,
an event, I fear, rather like casting
swine before pearls.

“You can do your own packing,” I
said to my daughter. “But I don’t want
to see any green nail polish, bleached
jeans or sweatshirts that say ‘I like
being a Sex Object.’ Don’t you have
anything with puffed sleeves and
smocking?”

“I thought you wanted us to be
ourselves,” she complained.

“Of course not! Are you out of your
mind?” I exclaimed. “And you,” I said,
turning to my son. “In Chicago you
wear pajamas to bed, not your under-
wear. Here, take these,”‘I said, hand-
ing him seven monogrammed hand-
kerchiefs.

 

 

To Grandmother’s House We Go

“What are these?” he asked.

“They’re for blowing your nose.”

“Cloth Kleenex!” he exclaimed.
“What will they think of next?”

“Now for heaven’s sake,” I cau-
tioned them as we finally boarded the
plane, “watch your language at Grand-
ma’s house!”

“You mean we can’t say %!&N or
**$&?”

“Especially not **$&,” I exclaimed.
“By the way, what’s that bulge in your
pocket?”

“A gerbil,” he admitted.

“Oh, **$&,” I sighed.

Excerpted from [F IT’S RAINING, THIS MUST
BE THE WEEKEND, by Nancy Stahl, a delight-
ful book which covers a range of parenting

problems in suburban America (Andrews and
McMeel, $7.95).

 

A GRANDMOTHER IS A SITTER WHOSE SERVICES AS A SITTER CAN BE THE‘CHEAPEST AND THE COSTLIEST AVAILABLE.
. —Judith Viorst

Very subjective. I trust my parents; they
are young and have a terrific “feel” for my
baby. My in-laws love my baby but need
direction. They recognize this, so there
USUALLY isn’t a problem.

Andrea Stone, Southfield, MI

 

Learning from Grandpa

 

Grandfathers are often good at intro-
ducing little ones to tools. A young child
loves to open and close hinged boxes;
. operate a little switch; use a key; ring a door-
bell; dial a telephone number; operate snaps,
hooks and catches; set a timer. Save an old
clock for your grandson to take apart. Let
him keep the parts in his own special box.

From THE EVERYTHING BOOK, a treasury of things
for children to make and do, by Eleanor G. Vance
(Golden Press, $3.95).

It’s disciplining Grandma and Grandpa
that’s a problem! Grandparents forget that
their own children become Mom and Dad
and continue to treat them as kids, taking
over the grandchildren without a thought for
the parents. It’s a tough reversal, but through
talking about feelings it can be conqurered.

Helen Lazar, Cleveland, OH

My in-laws are so afraid to do anything
without asking me—five years of good train-
ing! I’m still in charge with my parents, but
will ask advice from them more readily.
There’s nothing like your own mother’s
advice!

Blythe Lipman, Scarborough, ME

It’s co-op most of the time. We are lenient
about little things that might not be the same
as at home. When there is a potential
discipline disagreement, I say, “Let’s tell
Grandma how we do it at our house,” and
immediately do it my way!

Mary Hochhalter, State Center, IA

They set the ground rules; we enforce.
They’re stricter than we are at home. I grind
my teeth a lot and do my best to head off
clashes.

Beverley Spindler, Roseuille, MI

I wish we lived close enought to the grand-
parents to have this be a problem! They’re
across the contient in Connecticut.

Becky Gammons, Canogo Park, CA

Is discipline EVER a problem. NONE of
the grandparents discipline. My husband
and I look like abusive ogres while the kids
run wild. Their oh-so-tolerant attitude rubs
me the wrong way; I feel they should back us
up, not undermine our attempts at law and

order.
Jerri Oyama, Northridge, CA

We are more strict with our children (11
and 13) when we are at their grandparents’
than we are at home. I’m conscious of a too-
loud radio or other things that might annoy
older people. I try to keep things on an even
keel, as we visit only once a year for a month.

Nancy Giovinco, Minnetonka, MN

If we visit my husband’s parents, he watches
3-year-old and I watch 3-month-old baby. At
my parents, I watch them both, but my
mother usually catches dirty hands and so
on and helps my son wash up. Why do
grandparents have white carpet (his par-
ents) and glass coffee tables (mine). Ugh!
Cathy Wiese, Glendale Heights, IL

 




S'SPRlNGFIELD, VA.
ALEXANDRIA JOURNAL

GLOBE
TW. 5,930

,nn,151981 gyna

Wexler Joins
Burchette Agency

Morgan Burchette Associates, Inc.,
an Alexandria based advertising
agency, has announced the addition
of Sheila Wexler as director of new
, busmess. Her responsibilites will
include the expansion of services for
existing clients and development and
Implementation of a new business
plan for continued agency growth.

_The eight-year-old agency, with
clients such as Martin Marietta Data
Systems, National Public. Radio,“
Hyatt Regency Hotel, U.S. Geologi- a

' cal Surve , and WETA—TV, is in the
process 0 building broader advertis-
ing capabilities.

Prior to joining Morgan Burchette,
Wexler was account supervisor at
Abramson/Himelfarb, Inc. of Wash-
ington for five years where she
handled Woodward & Lothrop, Arena
Stage, First American Bank of Wash-
ington, and Animal Welfare
Institute’s Save the Whales cam-

paign.

 




Friday, July 31, 1981 pAGE 2A

‘2‘ 34,1: ' I
i-Ki ',:..”

   
  
   

GARDEN CITY, N.Y.

NEWS

(NEW YORK CITY MAREKI AREA)
“.5530 , ,

JUL 3 1., 1981 if“

       

 

\

lNPUT

Your Von-

 

THE QUESTION OF THE WEEK

Do you think John McEnroe hurt the opinions of Americans
throughout the world by his outbursts on the tennis courts in
England?

 

~

 

..':,r

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I n
l. ’

, . .

. . . .. .

- . ,.

. ' . I
v n n 'I f
:;:-:-f- ' ..-.-.-.I
'.‘Z::::-' ‘ x

15-32 _ ,3 ‘ . ,

“Doesn’t Junior do a wonderful
John McEnroe impersonation?”

Call 931-0027 ‘ g
24 Hrs. a Day +
Ground Rules

 

 

Simply dial 931-0027 - 24 Hours a Day and follow these simple rules:
1. Wait for the beep. ' ’ . ‘
2. Confine your INPUT to one subject. ' 4
, 3. Limit your opinion to five minutes (make notes before calling) 1
4. Leave your ..ame and telephone, or simply use a pen name. '

_ (your message can be anonymous) ,
5.’ Publishers reserve the right to edit, modify or omit
any and all material.

You are not limited to the above
but may talk on any subject of

interest to readers.

’One subject to a caller per week}.

 

 

State Should Control
Shows In Bars

Most callers to INPUT think that the State Liquor Authority should
exercise control over bars with nude dancing but many callers think
that the authority is too strict. Here are some of the answers to last
week’s question “Do you think that the State Liquor Authority should
revoke liquor licenses of bars that feature nude dancing by either men -
or women?”

ONLY LICENSES ,

The State Liquor Authority has the right to take away liquor licenses
but it has no right to stop the shows. If the Liquor Authority did not act
we would have these types of shows on every block and even the
owners of bars that did not want them would be forced into having
shows of this type. I believe they should stop the shows in bars. N.F. ,

EXTREME, SILLY

The shows go from the extreme to the silly. The male dancer acts
were really packing in more women than the shows for men, but this
may be because of the novelty of it and because there werestill‘less
male shows. But it is better that the Liquor Autuority put its foot down
before these things get too big. '

NO ONE’S BUSINESS

No. I think it is only the business of the people who freely patronize
the shows what goes on there. After all, you have to be old enough to
go into a bar and the place is responsible to see that you are old
enough so there is not much chance as in the “X” rated movies that
kids will go in. The state should mind its own business. E.R.

NO RELAXATION

The nude shows in bars make it difﬁcult for anyone who wants to go
to a bar to relax and talk sports to do so. I think they ought to have
burlesque shOws in theatres and not on each street corner. It interferes
with my rights to drink a beer. ' A.R.

POLICING BARS '
The State Liquor Authority has the job of policing bars and they

, should ban anything that changes them into disorderly groups. If the

peeple do not want liquor regulated then the legislators should do away
with the laws but there is so much potential for trouble with alcohol
that we do need the SLA so it has to do its job. P.S.

OTHER ISSUES

ANOTHER SPORT

Baseball fans - find another sport to watch! These striking players
‘want too much money and they’re not going to get it from us. Try
basketball or tennis. Baseball players are just getting too greedy.

ANIMAL CRUELTY

I watched a TV news magazine show and something moved me about
one of the topics: man’s cruelty towards animals. We trap them,
confine them in overcrowded rooms, murder them and use them to test
beauty products. Isn’t that a bit like the Holocaust? Animals deserve
every right to walk this earth too. We use their flesh to stuff our
mouths, their coats :to keep us warm, their tufts to cover our bodies
with ivory - where does this end. My suggestion is three easy steps. 1)
boycott at least one of these products for a week. 2) write to your
Senator and urge him to vote for animal’s rights. 3) Join the Animal
Welfare Institute at PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007. Please
’saWnd let them be free.’

POLICE COMPLAINT
I have a complaint against the Nassau County Police Department,
but you probably won’t print it. The night Harry Chapin died, many

' young people gathered in silent tribute and it was really beautiful.

Then around midnight the police came riding over the grass at
Eisenhower Park, pushing people into the wooden horses and making
it into something ugly. Harry Chapin was such a beautiful person who
did so much for charity and all the people gathered there that night
were peaceful and they were disrupted by the Nassau County Police for
no apparent reason. I thought that was really bad. Thanks for listening.

   
 

\

lNPUT

Your V ioe

   

  
 

   

 

 




