'3
0 b 9
WFEEWN’KTITREW oF ”.TUD‘GME NT. W 1 85 ‘

seem to have a claim to necessity also, just as it is un:
doubtedly universal. Kant speaks of it as ‘a rule borrowed
from experience’ (fig, p. 34).\-By this language and by his
use of ‘Bodies are heavy’ as convertible with it, he would
seem to suggest that he would not base its empirical
character solely on its extensional interpretation. If, as
seems probable, he would allow ‘ Body is heavy’ or ‘ Man is
mortal,’ to be equally empirical propositions, then it is plain
that what he calls empirical may involve necessity. It is
certain, at all events, that if we are to understand by em?"
pirical propositions only such as experience can justify, such
a proposition as ‘All bodies are heavy’ cannot be regarded
as empirical. It is based on the proposition ‘ Body is heavy,’
with which, if it is to be used for purposes of inference, it
must be regarded as convertible. I assume, therefore, that
Kant would not have refused to regard ‘Body is heavy’ as
an empirical proposition. It would seem certainly to come
under his class of ‘rules drawn from experience,’ whereas
”7 . ‘ All bodies are heavy,’ regarded solely as extensional, cannot
’7 .. :0 '- ' be called a rule. The use of this example would seem to lead
”’ «than is to important results with regard to the true deﬁnition of
if“. t . But empirical propositions. ' ‘

#34

:1? -- the “i But let usﬁrst return to ‘All bodies are heavy’; since
.. be even this would seem to involve in its very meaningr an
‘ . ' assertion of necesmty. If it be taken purely in extensmn, 1t

"'. ”a

ty, , .
' .. which must be resolved into ‘This body, and that body, and that

e mi), body, ad inﬁng'tfzgm, are, have been and will be heavy’. It

‘3’ ., , . mje involves, therefore, the proposition ‘ This body is heavy’. But

- "7* T,” it. It in any proposition of this simple categorical form the notion

a... true _ " ‘e , of substance and attribute is already involvedxi} \Vherever a

’i :diﬁerence i ’ i , Wsserted of a subject, it is implied that the subiect

_ H in respect ., ‘ ' 18 a grim, that it is something marked by the possession of

.- £5.35.” that , certain attributes and capable of possessing others. ‘This
he would ’ body is heavy’ presupposes, therefore, ‘ Body is a thing, and

h a pn'on'. heaviness is a mere attribute’. For we could not convert

a? _-'- my be a . the proposition into ‘ Heaviness is corporeal’. But that

1‘- ' , , between ‘ Body is a thing,’ and that ‘ Heaviness is an attribute,’ would
- .....~-. must seem to be necessary propositions. We may indeed be mis?

; " taken in supposing that they are true; but if we were ever
2:; .u infallible to ﬁnd that heavmess was not an attribute, we should be

. , er such bound to conclude that it never had been and never would be,
., not that it was so once but had ceased so to be. All such judgi-
3 . me his ments are truly ‘ thought alo ith their necessity ’. They
'~ .,..,, might are as necessary as that . The difference between

a

. ,L.’
\ '4 L: ,1; Cf. RV, p. 36.

l t
a

4 i a? 3 '1”! " . 5 V'“ _ g I !
‘I t 1 {~ *4 ‘ "y

 




a?“

l.—

 

 

‘4' - «HUM ,_,.,/ ..

“gift” EIATURE OF gQDGMEN’EJI

“TRUTH and falsehood," says Mr. Bradley (Lozpic, p. ‘3),
“depend on the relation of our ideas to reality.” And he

immediately goes on to explain that, in this statement,
“ideas” must not be understood to mean mere “states of
my mind The ideas, he says, on the relation of which to
reality truth depends, are “ {Qgre ideas, signs of an existence
other than themselves,” and this aspect of them must not
be confused either with their existence in my mind or with
their particular character as so existent, which may be called
their content. “ For logic) at least,” he says, “all ideas
are signs ” (p. 5)‘; and “ A Sign is any fact that has a mean?
ing,” while “meaning consists of a part of the content
(original or acquired) cut off, ﬁxed by the mind, and con?
sidered apart from the existence of the sign '7 (p. 4).

But Mr. Bradley himself does not remain true to this
conception of the logical idea as. the ideapj something. As
such, indeed, it 1&3. only the psychological idea, related,
indeed, to that which it signiﬁes, but only related to it.
Hence he ﬁnds it necessary, later, to use “idea,” not of the
symbol, but of the symbolised. Ideas, as Maw/S, not as
“facts, which have a meaning,” “are," he says (p. 8),
“the ideas we Spoke of, when we said ‘Without ideas no
judgment’" And he proceeds to show that “in predica?
tion we do not J_L§_e the mental fact, but only the meaning ” ;
although, where he did say “ \Vithout ideas no judgment,"
his words were “we cannot judge until we use ideas 9;
ideas. We must have become aware that they are not
realities, that they are mgr; ideas, signs of an existence other
than themselves." It would seem plain, then, that there
his doctrine was that we do, in predication, use the mental
fact, though only as a sign; whereas here his doctrine is
that we do not use the mental fact, even as a sign, but only
that which it signiﬁes. This important transition he slurs
over with the phrase: “But it is better to say the idea '18..
the meaning”. The question is surely not of which is
“better to say,” but which is true. .

l”; l. ”fRead before the Aristotelian Society.

 




_ ,, f... 1', THE "NATURE“‘UFJUDGMENT WW“

‘ j ‘2'”) '1 },,,.,¢..',~,~“ _

’ 3;:LANOW to Mr. Bradley’s argument that “the idea in judg?
ment is the universal meaning” I have nothing to add. It
appears to me conclusive, as against those, of whom there
have been too many, who have treated the idea as a mental
state. But he seems to me to be infected by the same error
as theirs, alike in his preliminary failure to distinguish
clearly whether it is the symbol or the symbolised of which
he is speaking, and in his ﬁnal description of the “idea, as
meaning,” when he has deﬁnitely decided in its favour.
“ A meaning,” he says, as we saw above, “consists of a
part of the content (original or acquired) cut off, fixed by
the mind, and considered apart from the existence of the
sign.” And again, “ an idea, if we use idea of the meaning,
is neither given nor presented, but is taken” (p. 8). If
indeed “the universal meaning" were thus simply a part
of the content of our own ideas, as mental states, and that,
too, a part “ cut off” by our own minds, it would be inteljA
ligible that “truth and falsehood ” should still he said to
“ depend on the relation of our ideas to reality It will be
our endeavour to Show, on the contrary, that the “ idea used
in judgment ” is not a part of the content of our ideas, nor
produced by any action of our minds, and that hence truth
and falsehood are not dependent on the relation ofgﬂ; ideas
to reality.

3 a in future use the term “ concept” for what Mr.
Bradley calls a “universal meaning”; since the term
“idea” is plainly full of ambiguities, whereas “concept”
and its German equivalent “pBegrz’ﬂ” have been more
nearly appropriated to the use in question. There is, in?
deed, a great similarity between Kant’s description of his
“_B_ggzi[f,” and Mr. Bradley’s of his “logical idea”. For
Kant, too, it is the “ analytical unity of consciousness”
which makes a “ Versiellzmg ” or “idea" into a “
cqmmums " or “ gemeinsamer Begnﬂr” (_B_V., p. 116 n.).

It is our objeCt to protest against this description of a
concept as an “ abstraction ” from ideas.

Mr. Bradley’s doctrine, as above sketched, presupposes
that, when I have an idea (flagellum) of something, that
something is itself part of the content of my idea. This
doctrine, for the present, I am ready to admit ; my question
now is whether, when I have an idea of somethinghthat- ,_
something must ii'o‘twéléof'be regarded" as something other *-

than art of the content of my idea. The content of an '
“Yams, MrTNBradleyItel‘Is”us,"'vVhat the idea is; it is “a
character which is different or distinguishable from that of
other ” ideas, treated as mental facts. Now, before I can
12

 

 

.’

J‘

{b

 




 

Yo

._ ._
i a
In. ‘
I

J 2

‘9' ‘4

__

O

 

1
\D

 

 

W“ eewnrwrrmtarrm

”a.

udge at all on Mr. Bradley’s theory, a part of this character
must have been “ cut of} and ﬁxed by the mind ”. But my
question is, whether we can thus cut off a part of the
character of our ideas, and atttribute that part to something
else, unless we already know, in part at least, what is the
character of the idea from which we are to cut oﬁ the part
in question. If not, then we have already made a judgment
with regard to the character of our idea. But this judgment,
again, requires, on Mr. Bradley’s theory, that I should have
had an idea of my idea, and should have already cut off a
part of the content of that secondary idea, in order that I
may make a judgment with regard to the character of the
rimary idea that is in question. And similarly it is quite
impossible that I should know what the content of my
secondary idea is, until I have made it in its turn the object
of a third idea, by taking part of this tertiary content. And
so on pagmglyﬁngtym. rIhe theory would therefore seem to
demand the completion of an inﬁnite number of psychoif"
logical judgments before any judgment can be made at all.
But such a completion is impossible; and therefore all
judgment is likewise impossible. It follows, therefore, if we
are to avoid this absurdity, that ﬁe ‘idea used in judgment ’
must be something other than a part of the content ofiany

 

 

1cﬁaa of mine. Mr. Bradieyks theory presupposes that I may

 

Have two idﬁs, that have a part of their content in common ;
but he would at the same time compel us to describe this
common part of content as part of the content of some third
idea. But what is gained by such a description? If the
part of content of this third idea is a part only in the same
sense, as the common part of the other two is a part of each,
then I am offering an explanation which presupposes that
which was to be explained. Whereas if the part, which is
used in explanation, is a part in the only sense which will
make my explanation signiﬁcant, 15;, an existent part, then
it is difficult to see how that which belongs to one idea can
also come to belong to other ideas and yet remain one and
the same. In short, the idea used in judgment is indeed a
‘universal meaning’ ; but it cannot, for that very reason, be
described as part of the content of any psychological idea
whatever.

i These difﬁculties, which are of the same nature as the
famousjrpi-roe d’u6pmrosjurged against the hypostasised Pla’F
tonic ideas, inevitably proceed from trying to explain the
concept in terms of some existent fact, whether mental or

of any other nature. All such explanations do in fact pre?‘

suppose the nature of the concept, as a Leﬁléé.,,11§!...,§¢, irre’?

duc
nor
sup
cor.

P0‘

P0’
tht
wi‘
tlli
113.
in(
Wi
in

SUI

do

p0

wi

pm
or

prl

 




g. c o d have
cut oﬂ'a
that I
r of the

_ . ' it is quite
7 tent of my
. . . the object
Mrs».

V I ."y. patent. And

,-. u.
an,

1

{3, . ore seem to
i , ‘__- .-.. of psycho-
: made at all.

~de therefore all
,,,,, . ' therefore, if we
used in judgment ’
$313 “the content of any
ppoees that I may
‘, content in common ;
us to describe this
{content of some third
[description ? If’the
put only in the same

.- two is a part of each,
' . presupposes that
if the part, which is
only sense which Will
an existent part, then
»: ongs to one idea can
d yet remain one and
judgment is indeed a
r that very reason, be
y psychological idea

‘ ‘33.
f.
5 I“ {.315

: same nature as the
the hypostasised Pla-
tryiug to explain the
‘t, whether mental or
tions do in fact {pre-
: a genus per se, me-

{ ’ WHﬂW-sNﬁTURE‘S“"*0F"""TUD‘GYENTT" .479.
ducible,to anything else. The concept is not a mental fact,
nor a art of a mental fact. Identity of content is pre?‘
supposed in any reasoning; and to explain the identity of

supposing that content to be

me third fact, must involve a

For in order that the content of the third

fact may perform this ofﬁce, it must already be supposed

like the contents of the other two, La, having something in

common with them, and this community of content is exactly
what it was proposed to explain.

 

Qt When, therefore, I say “This rose is red,” I‘am not attri?

buting partof the
attributing parts of t
red together to some third subject. What I am asserting

concept “ rose ” with the concepts “ this ” an “now” and
“red”; and the judgment is true if such a connexion is 3
existent. Similarly when I say “The chimera has threexj
heads,” the chimera is not an idea in my mind, nor any part
of such idea. What I mean to assert is nothing about my
mental states, but a speciﬁc connexion of concepts.
judgment is false, that is not ‘

spond to reality, but because

is not to be found among existents.

 

0

<7 1 With this, then, we have approached! the nature of a pro?"-

position or judgment. A pmosition is composed not of ‘-
words, nor yet of thoughts, but of concepts. Concepts are

possib'Ie objeCLs of thought; but that is no deﬁnition of

em. t merely states HTat they may come into relation
with a thinker; and in order that they may do anything, ‘.

they must already ,Qg something. It is indifferent to their a”

nature whether anybody thinks them or not. They are -

incapable of change; and Wrefation into which they enter }

With the knowmg sﬁbject implies no action or reaction. It
is a unique relation which can begin or cease with a change i

in the subject; but the concept is neither cause nor et'fect of F

such a change. Th’é occurrence of the relation has, no

on , i 3 causes and effects, but these are to be found only

in the subject.

9‘3". It is of such entities as these that a proposition is com?

posed. In it certain concepts stand in speciﬁc relations
With one another. And our question now is, wherein a
' ' ' oncept, that it may be either true

C): It is at ﬁrst sight tempting to say that the truth of a

proposition depends on its relation to reality; that any pro?

6

3

, ‘.~. a.)

.. . l .m.

i

.18 a speciﬁc connexion of certain concepts forming the total 1% _

 




  

i . _ . ~ , r . ,
v , , - v - . . , . A V . . .
. . .r. ,_- .A .. _ . . a . . V _ i ‘v - ,
' ~ , . . - I .. . . t.\". u ,. ‘A.-»' L‘ y 1.- 431‘ s "W 1 ' - ‘. "' fly '3.\.f Jun 51‘»
MM ..r~oip-'.- ~4-—-.~A- .‘a “Fol; ~u‘ 'y—Iw y—c-‘uu—no-A-«W'. " ‘w . a- -< ...-J. «,‘...'

Navy's-

 

  
  

W” .G. E MOORETW
‘ . {\YTECS; .

pOSItIODNIS true Wthh consists of a combination of concepts»
that is actually to be found among existents. This explanaigi"
tion was indeed actually used above (p. 179), as a preliminary
explanation. And it may be admitted that propositions with
which this is the case are true. But if this constituted the
truth of a proposition, concepts too might in themselves be
true. Red would be a true concept, because there actually
are red things; and conversely a chimera would be a false
concept, because no such combination either has been, is, or
will be (so far as we know) among existent things. But the
theory must be rejected as an ultimate one, because not all

 

 

Z i = 41s true, whether there ex1§Ftwo things or not.
home e it may be doubted here whether even the concepts
of which the proposition consists, can ever be said to exist.
We should have to stretch our notion of existence beyond
intelligibility, to suppose that 2 ever has been, is, or will be

an existent. ' ' A
374 It would seem, in fact, from this example, that a ro osi-y
tion is nothing other than a complex concept. The difference
concept and-a proposition, in Virtue of which the

latter alone can be called true or false, would seem to he
merely in the simplicity of the former. A proposition is a
synthesis of concepts; and, just as concepts are themselves
immutably what they are, so they stand in infinite relations

_ to one another equally immutable. A proposition is con‘:
‘léﬂtuted by any number of concepts, tog'éther With a spec1fic
Wen them; and according_to the nature of this
, a mu he proposuion may be either true or false. What
kind of relation makes a proposition true, what false, cannot

- o A ..'-O ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

. n o tis descrip will also apply to those cases where
t-ere appears to be a reference to existence. Existence is
ﬁelf a concept; it is something which we mean; and the
great body of pr0positions, in which existence is joined to
other concepts or syntheses of concepts, are simply true or
false according to the relation in which it stands to them.
It is not denied that this is a peculiarly important concept ;
that we are peculiarly anxious to know what exists. It is
only maintained that existencais logically subordinate to
truth; that truth cannot be deﬁned by a reference to exisT—‘ﬁ
tence, but existence only by a reference to truth. When I
say “ This paper exists," I must require that this proposition
be true. If it is not true, it is unimportant, and I can have
no interest in it. But if it is true, it means only that the

 

concepts, which are combined in speciﬁc relations in the L P

5?

true pro ositions have this relation to reality. For em “

“' um".

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

v ..... » ..




   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
      
   
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

W’ “‘"" s. E MOORE?”
. (W), .

pomtionmis true which consists of a combination of concepts.
that is actually to be found among existents. This explanaf
tion was indeed actually used above (p. 179), as a preliminary
explanation. And it may be admitted that propositions with
which this is the case are true. But if this constituted the
truth of a proposition, concepts too might in themselves be
true. Red would be a true concept, because there actually
are red things; and conversely a chimera would be a false
concept, because no such combination either has been, is, ()I'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

v6 ' {UT} will be (so far as we know) among existent things. But the
, theory must be rejected as an ultimate one, because not all . i,
l? V? true pro ositions have this relation to reality. For example "“""
+/: fg—f‘i“ = 418 true, whether there ems? two things or not.
ﬁx" Moreove ifmay be doubted here whether even the concepts

of which the proposition consists, can ever be said to exist.
We should have to stretch our notion of existence beyond
intelligibility, to suppose that 2 ever has been, is, or will be
an existent. ' ' A
3:71 It would seem, in fact, from this example, that a re osi-;
tion is nothing other than a complex concept. The diﬁerence ' -
concept and-a proposition, in Virtue of which the '
latter alone can be called true or false, would seem to he
merely in the simplicity of the former. A proposition is a
synthesis of concepts; and, just as concepts are themselves
immutably what they are, so they stand in infinite relations
_ to one another equally immutable. A proposition is con?
tuted by any number of concemts, together With a specxfic
Wen them; and according_to the nature of this
I, a mu he proposrtion may be either true or false. Wha_t__
' kind of relation makes a proposition true, what false, cannot
l be 111' cer 06: ‘0 ‘au‘:..__;ﬁ-Ouuu(=[ol: -. - 0:: .. j;
. . o tis descrip will also apply to those cases where
tere appears to be a reference to existence. Existence is ~
~iLself a concept; it is something which we mean; and the
gran} body of pr0positions, in which existence is joined to
other concepts or syntheses of concepts, are simply true or
false according to the relation in which it stands to them.
It is not denied that this is a peculiarly important concept ;
that we are peculiarly anxious to know what exists. It is
only maintained thatgxistenceis logically subordinate to
truth; that truth cannot be deﬁned by a reference to exﬁisf‘ﬁ
tence, but existence only by a reference to truth. When I
say “ This paper exists,” I must require that this proposition
be true. If it is not true, it is unimportant, and I can have
no interest in it. But if it is true, it means only that the
concepts, which are combined in speciﬁc relations in the i1“?

:1:

. s ' \v
a“ '.\.‘J_,) ‘— -
. _ ~ , , _ .
>-.. onwi .--u -. - .

. .‘ . I r i ‘.
._,:__....,p~. ...
.-~..uv;-a‘~gw', .'

 

   
 

 

 

""“"‘" "‘ wM-x-vW—.. -4-.........4. .a... N- n, ..,.

   

 

 




40:65

mvmnwosmmmgnm‘. 1-81, a

concept of this paper, are also combined in a speciﬁc manner“.
with the concept of existence. That speciﬁc manner is somej '
thing immediately known, like red or two. It is ig y
. Tﬁportant, because we set such value upon it_; but it is itself
a concept. All that exists is thus composed of concepts

necessarily related to one‘anot’n‘erin speciﬁc manners, and ‘
jikemse to the concept of ex13tence.

5:: ‘ I fully aware how aradoxi al this theory mustap ear, W
i WWW le. BWWW
WW

 

 

 

 

 

mitted, and to have been avoided
only by lack of logical consistency. I assume Mr. Bradley’s
proof that the concept is necessary to truth and falsehood.
I endeavour to show, what I must own appears to me
perfectly obvious, that the concept can consistently be de?‘
scribed neither as an existent, nor as part of an existent,
since it is presupposed in the conception of an existent. It
is similarly impossible that truth should depend on a relation
to existents or to an existent, since the proposition by which
it is ‘80 deﬁned must itself be true, and the truth of this can
certainly not be established, without a vicious circle, by
exhibiting its dependence on an existent. Truth, however,
would certainly seem to involve at least two terms, and some
relation between them; falsehood involves the same; and
hence it would seem to remain, that we regard truth and
falsehood as mperties of certain concepts, together WIEF
their relationsgya whole to which we gave the name 0T~
proposmon. r
U} fhave appﬁled throughout to the rules of logic; nor, if
any one rejects these, should I have much to fear from his

' the

is a
nations
5 ‘ . ‘ i8 con-
:, . Speciﬁc
_ ._ .. g, , of this
What

 

 

",,"“‘?‘.: .

For, in

_ ._ , cannot
j"; 315:” .
. ' Janos where
_ 5 f Ens tence 18
. ,'-,‘._>, y-
j jg , ; and the
[In “is jomed to
' ”imply true or
.‘J.'-” .
.. ~.- - to them.
"gr- 5-
, .t concept;
"g :4! ‘ “exists. It 18
inhordinate to
‘ i .. nice to 8X18-

‘étmth. When I
i u” this roposition
" - and can have
"f“ only that the
. relations in the

7'53!»
g‘

arguments. An appeal to the facts is useless.
order that a fact may be made the basis of an argument, it
must ﬁrst be put in the form of a proposition, and, moreover,
this proposition must be supposed true ; and then there must
recur the dilemma, whether rules of logic are to be accepted
or rejected. And these rules once accepted, would seem
themselves to offer a conﬁrmation of our theory. For all true
inference must be inference from a true proposition ; and that
the conclusion follows from the premiss must again be a true
proposition: so that here also it would appear theme nature

of a true proposition is the ultimate gagym. Nor is an appeal

to the “matter” of the proposm‘ﬁ's‘eﬁl than the former
appeal to the facts. It may be true that this matter is given
in sensation, or in any other conceivable way. we are not
concerned with its origin, but with its nature; and its
nature, if it is to enter into a true prOposition, must, we
agree with Mr. Bradley, be the nature of a concept and no

\ \‘ .
a, | F

(90

a "‘0

pt

4!;

 




‘1-8‘2‘" mewswmssmm

other: and then the old conclusions follow. Nor, ﬁnally, is a

vicious circle involved in our own attempt to establish con?”
clusions with regard to truth, by rules of logic in which that

conception is presupposed. For our conclusion is that truth

i itself a simple concept; that it is logically prior to any

proposmon. But a Violous circle occurs only WW‘
Wis taken as prior to a concept, or a more complex

proposition (one involving more concepts) as prior to one

which is more simple. Valid logical processes would seem

to be of two kinds. It is possible to start from a complex

proposition and to consider what propositions are involved

in it. In this case the latter must always be more simple

than the former; and they may be true, although the former

is false. Or it is possible to start from a more simple pro: ‘
position and to deduce one that is more complex, by succes?
sive additions of concepts ; which is the properly deductive

procedure exhibited in the propositions of Euclid: and in

this case the premiss must be true, if the conclusion is so.

It may be well to state that both procedures are synthetic,

in the sense that the results arrived at are different from the

premisses, and merely related to them. In a Vicious circle,

on the other hand, the two procedures are confused. A

result arrived at by the former of the two processes just

described, is regarded as involving the truth of its premiss.

Thus, when we say that the conceptual nature of truth is

involved in logical procedure, no vicious circle is committed,

since we do not thereby presuppose the truth of logical

procedure. But when an existent is said to be involved in

truth, a vicious circle is committed, since the proposition

“Something is true,” in which “Something exists” is

supposed to be involved, must itself be true, if the latter is

to be so. ,

O l Wsary, then, to regard the world as formed
of concepts. These are the only objects of knowledge.
They cannot be regarded fundamentally as abstractions
either from things or from ideaS' since both alike can, if
anything is to Be true of them, be composed—BTnothing but

. mg ecomes intelligible ﬁrst when it is
an yse into its constituent concepts. The materialdiversity
of things, which is generally taken as startingpoint, is only
derived ; and the identity of the concept, in several diderent
things, which appears on that assumption as the problem of
philosophy, will now, if it instead be taken as the starting?
point, render the derivation easy. Two things are then seen
to be differentiated by the different relations in which their P
common concepts stand to other concepts. The opposition U '83 ,‘,

 

 

(a!

 




mimhIWREWFEﬂ‘WMENT? 183

/" of concepts to existents disappears, since ﬂ existent is seen
' but a concept or complex of concepts standing
in a unique relation to the concept of exiSLence. Even thew
description of an existent as a proposition (a tTue gisté'n'tialmw'
propositidn) seems to lose its strangeness, when it is rejé"
membered that a proposition is here to be mer‘stoodjm
Wan assertion or arﬁrmation of something:
"gout as the combination of conceTps which Fatﬁrm‘
ﬁr we are familiar with the idea of afﬁrming or ” pos1t1ng ”—
an existent, of knowing objects as well as propositions; and
the difﬁculty hitherto has been to discover wherein the two
processes were akin. It now appears that perception is to be
regarded philosophically as the cognition of an eXistential‘
~~fﬁ‘ﬁosition; and it is thus apparent how it can furnish a
_ a81s ' 'rence, which uniformly exhibits the connexion
”g m 've ‘ between propositions. Conversely light is thrown onpthe
4, ,g;_ ‘ . nature of inference. For, whereas it could not be maintained
ad m that the conclusion was only connected with the premisses
”:10 in my thoughts, and that an inference was nothing, if no?
, ’ "' 1:3’ . body was making it, great difficulty was felt as to the kind
1 ,. from 31 e ‘ of objectivity that belonged to the terms and their relation,
' '_°3m: since existence was taken as the type of objectivity. This
3' "" . difﬁculty is removed, when it is acknowledged that the ref"
"‘ ”at lation of preinisses to conclusion is an objective relation, in
miss. 1 the same sense as the relation of existence to what exists is
1.24:“ ““6218 objective. It is no longer necessary to hold that logical
; " ‘1' cai connexions must, in some obscure sense, exist, since to
,~-«,_."°‘ 083 . exist is merely to stand in a certain logical connexion.
3' " "3d. m C")! It will be apparent how much this theory has in common
. with Kant’s theory of'perception. It differs chieﬂy in sub?" _

43,} latter is Wsensations, as the data of knowledge, concepts ;

7 andin refusmg to regard the relations in which they stand
f ed as, in some obscure sense, the work of the mind. It rejects
in cm the attempt to explain “ the possibility of knowledge," ac?

_ _. . cepting the cognitive relation as an ultimate dang/nor pre;

, . 'f supposition; since it maintains the objections which Kant
9» ~ nhkecani) It . himself urged against an explanation by causality, and re-
'12 clothing 9 g cognises no other kind of explanation than that by way of

_, .-" ' "733:9 333-38 4 logical connexion with other concepts. It thus renounces

_ . . .. ’i ’ t 11:46:83? ' ’ the supposed unity of conception guaranteed by Idealism
- "‘ l iiiﬁerenz 4 _- 4- 3X9“ in the Kantian form, and still more the boasted reduci“
the blem of -‘ ’1 tion of all diﬂerences to the harmony of “ AbsoluTe Spll‘lt,‘-/
pro - a which marks the Welopment. But it isnnportant

the 83mm"- ' to point out that it retains the doctrine of Transcendentalism.

For Kant’s Transcmntalism was on the distinction—DEF-
tween empirical and (HUM? propositions. This is a distincT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

« gm“

T p“ as then seen
in which their
‘ .a opposmon

 

£31”

 




 

184W 6M®WE%

‘1 i?” m

tioh \w’hich offers a striking corres ondence to that between

the ’c‘ategorical and hypothetical Judgments; and since one
object of this paper is to combat the View which inclines
to take the categorical judgment as the typical form, and
attempts in consequence to reduce the hypothetical judg-i"
ment to it, it will not be out of place to discuss Kant’s
distinction at some length.

c’l Kant himself offers us two marks by which an ,gwﬂmu;

{3

Wm” be distinguished. ‘ “K proposmion,’ he says,

‘w ich is thought along with its necessity is an gmﬁpﬂgrj
judgment.’ And it is absolutely gﬂpﬁgp’ only if it be not

deduced from any propOSition, that is not itself a necessary -

proposition. The second mark of the $1177.99“; is strict uni-"r"

versality. But unfortunately Kant himself seems to admit

the invalidity of this as a mark ; since he immediately pro?“
ceeds to state that an empirical universality may hold in all

cases (‘ for example, in the proposition 2 All bodies are

heavy’) and hence be strictly universalfﬁy

l It is true Kant states that this empirical universality is

merely arbitrary. We ought, he ‘says, to express our proposiT‘
tion in the form: ‘ So far as we have yet observed, there is

no exception from’ the rule that all bodies are heavy. But

it would seem that such a qualification can only affect the

truth of our proposition and not its content. It may be

questioned whether we have a right to assert universality,

but it is universality which we assert. The limitations which

Kant points out as belonging to the proposition, can properly

be expressed only in the doubt whether we have found a rule

at all, not in a doubt whether there are exceptions to it. It

may not be true that all bodies are heavy ; but whether true

or not, it is a universal proposition. There is no difference

between this proposition and such as are ygﬂpﬂmi, in respect
of universality. And Kant could hardly wish to assert that
the difference lay in its truth. For this proposition, he would
admit, may be true; and, if so, then it would be 3.12fova

But he would not admit the suggestion that it maybe a_

171,331: : he asserts that it is not so. The difference between
t e empirical and the gpﬂriqrj, if there is a difference, must
therefore be in some other mark than in this universality,
which Kant nevertheless asserts to be ‘ by itself an infallible
criterion ’ (39,, p. 353. We may next consider whether such
a mark is to be found in ‘ necessity’.

C)! In this investigation, too, it may be well to examine his

example ‘All bodies are heavy,’ since this proposition might ‘1“?3»

.,73,\ ;_;~_ ﬂex, p. 35. ‘Hartenstein, ed. 1867.’
, s
l ;

I

"/5. \x , .. -
‘\ f0 0’ ":1". P E g

 

Y .-~,‘ ...‘

,4

 
 

se
(1!
fr

SE

SE

 




070

W mansions»

W! a;- i :

a the two forms of proposition lies not in that the former lacks l
’necessity, nor even that it implies the proposition ‘ Heaviness ’
exists’; for even if heaviness did not exist, the proposition
would be true. The proposition means that heaviness could
npt be other than an attribute ; and hence, if Kant’s word? V
(p. 34) are to be Wstrictly, it cannot be empiriscal.’ , In . t
this respect, theretore, it is quite on a level With ‘ ZHTFiLl UT ‘1“ 1
mmre were no two'tliihgws.“ l
The diﬁerence seemather in the nature of the
concepts of which the necessary relation is predicated.
‘ Heaviness ’ can exist ; it is not meaningless to say ‘ Heavi?”
ness exists here and now’; whereas ‘attribute,’ ‘two,’ and
other like conceptions can only claim a precarious sort of
existence in so far as they are necessarily related to these
other notions of which alone prOperly existential propositions
can be made.

Cl If,therefore,we wish to ﬁnd propositions involving no neceso:
sityﬁr/we must descend to purely existential propositionsf—pro“
positions which do not involve the notions of substance and
attribute. These alone can be truly taught us by experience,
if experience ‘cannot teach us that a thing could not be
otherwise’ (p. 34). And even these are free from necessity,
only if they are understood to assert something with regard
to an actual part of actual time. They must involve neces:
sity as soon as the distinction between ‘This is ’ and ‘This
was ’ is disregarded. It would seem, in fact, to be a mark of
the sort of existence which they predicate that it is in time.
They may affirm ‘This exists,’ or ‘This has existed,’ but
if they take the general form ‘ This is,’ that must always be
understood to mean no more than ‘ This always has been, is
now, and always will be,’ and can be strictly analysed into as
many different judgments as time is divisible into separate
moments.

{>4 If, therefore, the difference between the empirical and a.“
word lay primarily, as Kant implies, in the nature of the
judgment. not in that of the concept, only existential pro?!
positions could be empirical. In order to represent even
‘ This body is heavy ’ as an empirical proposition, it would be
necessary to analyse it into the form ‘Heaviness and the
marks of body exist here and now’. But this is certainly
not its whole meaning. W's must, therefore, suppose that in
order to obtain a clear deﬁnition of what Kant meant by
empirical propositions, we must base it upon the nature of the

J, ‘~ (- , £311.31”) .' . . . .
4134.? ,? ﬂ ”l, Even these involve the necessary properties of time ; but this pomt

may be reserved for later consideration.

1 v
yh-nkvu-Wi

.- ‘- |K " ‘ . A.
’e! in. c - ; ‘.
. .

-y _

, i .- .
?'P ‘ ”J

. ""“fi
,1“? i (I ’ .‘ . ”i, ’ w...
a,“ f: w,‘ $9.. 'I

“M“... V‘ ya..-

' . I‘ t] .‘
u .. ‘1”,5.‘ .3 i’
'_ .In. ,a 5,, "H -‘. '- .

‘ 7'. ,‘I'... m.
u. u”- . - ,4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

....-.m§' .2 Av «‘01. .LWI-‘I'v

y...“
. m

,a. “‘.‘.-.b.'l‘.\.-_-: U

 




071

TEENA'IKIRE 0.11....111DGMEA1511... 18—7“ -

’ concepts used in them. Empirical concepts are those which /

can exist in parts of time. This would seem to be the only " M,
H u o . n . ,
manner of ‘ os1 ion in o r“ ~

' ‘ MS may be calla em iricalf AEEM
““ (We the necessity involved in such +4 .
a proposition as ‘This body is heavy,’ although, for reasons
which will appear hereafter, he states it in a somewhat dif5
ferent way. The main object of his ‘Analytic ’ is to show
that any such judgment involves a ‘ synthesis of the manifold
of sense-intuition,’ which is ‘necessary glinftgrt’ (p. 126).
But he regards this synthesis rather as necessary in order
to bring mere perceptions into relation with the ‘unity of
apperception,’ than as directly involved in the empirical
judgment. Moreover, in order to explain how the forms of
synthesis can apply to the manifold, he introduces the inner
sense as mediator, and describes the judgment as converting
the psychical connexion of the presentations into an objective
connexion rather than as applying the categories to a mere
" .. and manifold, which cannot properly be described as psychical.
a face, Accordingly he gives as the ultimate empirical judgment, out
4;“ lat. '. of which the application of substance and attribute produces
a “"Nty, ‘Bodies are heavy,’ the subjective judgment ‘ \Vhen I carry
. " regard .' a body, I feel an impression of heaviness,’ instead of that,“
,g H - nece8- given above‘ Heaviness and the marks of body exist together.’:€/
, Ind ‘This He does not seem to see that his subjective judgment al?
smark of ready fully involves the category in question. A statement
g": ”I in time. about my feelings is just as ‘objective,’ in the required sense,
' " «mu, but as a statement about what is conceived as in space.

 

 

 

always be , ‘ Q i With the abggve deﬁnition, therefore, it is obvious why
. “been, is _ ‘«, ' . ‘Body is heavy’ should be called empirical; whereas, if

_ _, '_ , .. intoas " " We of necessityr had been the mark requ1red.1t would~
,, separate ~- W difﬁcult to ﬁnuTreason. For this proposition

 

. 3
. mfg-3".”

 

 

 

does not only involve, ﬁlEe ‘This body is heavy’ or ‘All
._.._., .5... and a ' bodies are heavy,’ the necessary judgments that body is
were of the . a thing, and heaviness an attribute; it asserts a relation
" '~-‘ot1&lpr0- between a ‘heaviness’ and ‘corporeity’ such as no ex? _
Hgmnt even perience can prove or disprove. If we found a body which .2.
’ W ' ' ,it would be was not heavy, that would indeed lead us to deny the truth Kéiéio’ ‘4,'6u""j\,7
.- . and the . of the proposition; but it would also entitle us at once to .I .
.. w'. is certainly the opposite necessary proposition ‘ Body, cannot be heavy ’. I,
_ f '-n‘00~i‘ that in And this is just what holds of 2j+32lﬁi 4. It is perhaps +7;
‘ wt meant by inconceivable to us now that two and two should not make
V fin-nature of the four; but, when numbers were ﬁrst discovered, it may well
have been thought that two and two made three or ﬁve. “W;

E:

‘7

._‘§i."_<‘ _ ' aha-{.ﬂ 7‘”
i _h; but this pomt . 'ﬁ . I} "i

‘ ., r~qu '3

$'- 3

3’, 2.. ’ ‘- ’ if ’ . r {I A"
..\n::_’!‘ {j , , 1 P. IZI’Ff' also P:0L, p. 04 n. \l:
5

r” .

2

. ‘3 f’* ‘. E t
is my . I g
's. ‘ l. . ’ If t . ’ .‘I

, up. m'wmi‘lvul 'W-"*: -l' I
a . 4 5 "V ‘ ..
o' I ’ ‘ ' .‘~ -. .. ’.‘ . . '
-' u . ,- j ‘

 




  

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
  

“188“ a. mamooaa» ~

 
  
  

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

Experience, no doubt, must have been the means of pro; —PI'OI

ducing the conviction that this was not so, but that two and implic

two made four. The necessity of a proposition, therefore, is heavy

not called in question by the fact that experience may lead classes

you to think it true or untrue. The test of its necess1ty hes regard

merely in the fact that it must be either true or untrue, and exist 1:

cannot be true now and untrue the next moment ‘ whereas are mi

with an existential proposition it may be truethat this in the:

exists now, and yet it will presently be untrue that it ex1sts. all of

The doubt about the truth of ‘ Body is heavy ’ would seem to propor

proceed chieﬂy from our uncertainty as to what wemean by regard

.- ‘Body’ and by ‘heavy’. We cannot recognise instances imply

of them with as great precision as we recognise instances is one

”3 of number; and hence we cannot be sure whether the truth plaine

.3; of our proposition may not be overthrOwn. The proposmon The

is arbitrary solely in this sense. There would seem no doubt scend<
that we mean by it to assert an absolute necessmy ; but hm”;
‘ between what precise concepts the necessary relation, of WW.

5; which we are certain, holds, we must leave to experience to M ”I ,

discover. given,

4; G l From the foregoing analysis it would, therefore, appear that ’l‘his (
7‘: the true distinction upon which Kant’s division of proposi; kinds

mans into aprioigi and anggtgngij, necessary and em irical, . . einpir

Ebaser‘f Ts the distinction between concepts which can - ‘2 . t ‘ ' ' divish
7}": exist in parts oFtime and concepEi wh—ich seem to be cut 07f ' " as su

from ex1§tence altogether, bufwhich give rise to assertions existe
of an abso‘fute‘iyr necessa_ry relatipn. Kant would seem To claim

Tnclude among empirical propOSItions all those in which an These
'33; empirical concept is used; whether the proposition asserts sion;
a necessary relation between an empirical and an .ngigiji. could

concept, or between two empirical concepts. What it. is exists
‘7; important to emphasise is that these two kinds of proposition point

3 are not distinguished by the absence of the marks which he tial n:

7; gives for the a ggz'iorj ; they both include both necessity and they 2
i strict universality. Empirical propositions would therefore Th

'3‘ include a wide range of propositions, differing very much IDA exists
; the meaning of their assertions. They seem to extend ups sary
if; wards from mere assertions of the existence of this or that, estab
of the type ‘Heaviness exists here and now’ ; through pro? point

2‘ positions of the usual categorical form ‘ This body is heavy,’ asser’
7”- which include necessary propositions in their meaning, but the a
‘ at the same time imply an assertion of existence; to pro- take
positions which assert existence at every time, while still exam

retaining the element of necessity included in the last, like I say

‘All bodies are heavy’; and ﬁnally to those propositions, conce

upon which alone the validity of the last class can be based "‘ ‘9’, one a

 

 




, .43'» :11.
l» ..
I:

I; __ ' ’ '-, and

"a :whereas
that this

it exists.

1 . seem to

we mean by

. , . instances
m . instances
" .11 -.. the truth
no proposition

~ seem no doubt
..neeessity; but
f relation, of
». to experience to

1.1. - appear that
\ .- '.'.n of proposi-
1m and empirical,
‘1 upts1 which can
R1”; ' seem to be cut off
_ 1 — rise to assertions
shut would seem to
" all those in which an

ﬁe proposition asserts

tr and an a priori
. mpts. What it is
kinds of proposition

of the marks which be
,1m- both necessity and
1 ' one would therefore
. diﬂering very much in
' ‘ .- seem to extend up-
existence of this or that,
and now' ; through pro-
rm ‘This body is heavy,’
as in their meaning, but
ha of existence; to pro-
1 every time, while still
included in the last, like
y to those propositions,
3 last class can be based

.'.~-o--.1‘

 

:Q‘EEM-NATUBEm9*er1JerDGM-ENT’." 189

Fpropositions which assert a necessary relation, without any
implication of existence whatever, of the type‘ Body is
heavy’. The only common element in all these different
classes would seem to be that they all make assertions with
reoard to some empirical concept,_1'.e., a concept which can
ex1st in an actual part of time. The second and third classes
are mixed and involve necessity, because there is also included
in them an assertion with regard to an a pr1'011' concept To
all of them Kant would seem to oppose as purely 11 pr1'0r1'
propositions, those which make an assertion solely with
regard to a_p110r1 concepts and which for that reason can
imply no assertiOn of existence, since an 11 pr1'0r1' concept
IS one which cannot exist in the limited sense above exl'
rWplained.

riflThe line of division, therefore, upon which Kant’ s Tran—
scendentalism is based, would seem to fall between proposi
tions involving empirical concepts and those which involve
none such; and an empirical concept is to be deﬁned not

- as a concept given by exper1ence,smce all concepts are so

ﬁven, but as one which can eXISt 1n an actuaTFpart of time.

This d1v1s1on 1s necessary in ordei to include all the various
kinds of propositions which Kant includes under the term
empirical, many of which involve alrwm concepts If the
division were to be based on the nature of the propositions,

as such, as Kant pretends to base it, we saw that pure
existential propositions alone could be thought to have a
claim to form a class by themselves, as empirical propositions.

These do indeed obviously form the basis of the other divil’
sion; for a simple concept cannot be known as one which

could exist 1n time except on—the ground that it has T 3”

emsted, is existing, or will exist. But we have now to
point out that evn e. stent1.prou.itios hve te e sen?“
ti; ua - w-'ch an 1.: gns to a o 11' pro-.oi ionSITT~ at_\

15W-
at.“ e dis motion of 1me was said to be ultimate for an

existential proposition. If this is so, it is obvious that neces?
sary prOpositions, of the kind which Kant endeavours to
establish in thel thetic, are involved in them. It was
pointed out that a are existential proposition could only
assert the existence of a simple concept; all others involving
the a roman concepts of substance and attribute. If now we
take the existential proposition “ Red exists,” we have an
example of the type required. It is maintained that, when
I say this, my meaning is that the concept “red ” and the
concept “ existence” stand in a speciﬁc relation both to
one another and to the concept of time. I mean that “ Red

 




074

.. . ‘ we?» Amway
Haw ' . rm . .. .A , H “p ﬁg» 1”;
‘ 19‘) " GTWWJWREaT

exists now," and thereby imply a distinction from its past
and future existence. And this connexion of red and existence
With the moment of time I mean by “ now,” would seem to , t
be as necessary as any other connexion whatever. If it is “1:65;" 4:4; ".3
true. it is necessarily true, and if false, necessarily false, [1 r

in c - u u r l
_1t is true, its contradi tor is as fully nnpossi W V {a
tradlctor of 2 n '. x l“! x
l ut the neceSSIty t us involved in ex1stential propositions / i

does not do away with the importance of Kant’s distinction «J
between the empirical and theﬁqppgggri. So far as he attempts
to base it upon the fact that what is empirical alone is
“ given in experience” and may be referred to “ sense," it
must indeed be given up ; but as against the English philoT
sophers, who held the same View about sense-knowledge, it
retains its full weight. The 'l‘ransceinlental Deduction con-
tains a perfectly valid answer to Hume’s scepticism, and to
empiricism in general. Philosophers of this school generally
tend to deny the validity of any propositions except those
about existents. Kant may be said to have pointed out that
in any of these propositions, which the empiricists con’k
sidered to be the ultimate, if not the only, data of knowledge,
there was involved by the very same logic on which they
relied to support their views, not only the uniform and
necessary succession of time, and the geometrical properties
of space, but also the principles of substance and causality.
He does not, indeed, thereby prove the truth of the axioms
and principles in question; but he shows that they are at
least equally valid with, and more ultimate than, those upon
which empiricism builds. Although, therefore, it seems no
longer possible to hold, as Kant held, that a reference to
existents is necessary to any proposition that is to claim the
title of “knowledge,” and that the truth of such propositions
can alone claim immediate certainty; although, on the con?“
trary, it seems that existential propositions are only a
particular class of necessary proposition : yet the transcen-
dental deduction is still important. A deduction from the
“ possibility of experience” does not indeed really represent-
the nature of Kant’s argument. For the possibility of ex?
perience presupposes that we have experience, and this
again means that certain existential propositions are true:
but this does not involve the truth of any particular exis?‘
tential propositions; although its truth is involved in theirs.
What Kant really shows is that space and time and the
, categories are involved in particular propositions; and this
’ “YER is of greater value than a deduction from the possibility
of experience would have been. He does not indeed recog?"

it!

 

 

 

51

 




'_~‘,,‘v‘a a;
,.

» .., p

i, 'p. " t

.7 r.- . ‘0. 1
5.44113?

'5‘- reference to

i to claim the
.4381! propositions

‘ on the con-

i: -,_ are only a
-, Tj'ii'l « the transcen-
‘_<;«."$.‘“ .
ﬁr M n from the
L13. . Rally represent
mbihty of ex-
v M ... we and this
'.. .: are true:

,- *y-i 'cular exis—
f“:- Lmtphrrned in theirs.
-. time and the
t _. "'n .: ; and this
5 the possibility
”not indeed recog-

 

tannanUREoFJUDeMLNTW 191
$0133 ;

nisehthat the propositions from which he is deducing are
themselves necessary, and that there may therefore be other
necessary propositions, with a like claim to certainty, not to
be deduced from them. He therefore imagines himself to
have exhausted the ﬁeld of knowledge; whereas in fact he
has only shown certain logical connexions within that lield.
But it is not here proposed to dispute the truth of particular
existential propositions ; and though, unlike Kant, we admit
them to be merely assumed, we may be thankful that he has
shown us what can be inferred from them.

45” Moreover, Kant's distinction between space and time on
the one hand, and the categories on the other, also retains
its value, though we can no longer describe their general
difference as he did. It seems rather to be this: That time
alone is sufficient for some sort of experience, since it alone
seems to be involved in the simplest kind of existential pro?"

position, e.g., “Pleasure exists and that again time and
space together will sutlice to account for the possibility of
other pieces of knowledge, without the use of the categories.
It is necessary to make a fresh assumption of propositions
such as even Hume recognised, and such as are universal in
physical science, in order to ﬁnd the principles of substance
and accident and causality implied. In all such propositions
time and space are presupposed as well, but these categories
are not implied in every proposition involving time and
space.

{‘3 l The simplest existential propositions are then to be re}
garded as necessary ro osit'ons of a culiar s rt. In one
kind the‘mﬁmdved; in
another those of space also. But though this fact, which
Kant points out, is very important against empiricists, we
cannot regard it with him as establishing the truth of

orresponding propositions about time.

and time.

coverable, which might not thus be false; not even the
famous “cogito” is indubitable. We cannot, therefore,
take the “possibility of experience,” in any possible sense,
as sufficient warrant for our knowledge of space and time ;

true, just in the same w
propositions are so known.
C‘l Similarly, those propositions which involve substance and
attribute are not sufﬁcient to establish the truth of the pro?

‘ "’3

positions thereby involved. The permanence of substance is E. ... 4

3+0

 




4g?”

 

W” mm A,“

r...‘

indeed, Kant shows us, as certain as the empirical proposil
tions which Hume took to be alone certain. But its truth
must be known independently of these, since it is involved
also in false proposrtions of this type. It would, in fact,
be true, whether any such propositions were true or
not. Kant has only taught us that, if any of them are
true, it must be so likewise. He failed to see that its
truth may be asserted immediately on the same ground
as theirs; for he was misled by the previous course of
philosophy to suppose that there was something more imT
mediately indubitable in them. Their truth is, in fact,

the last thing which common sense doubts, in spite of

its familiarity with erroneous perceptions. Kant’s merit

was in pointing out, what he himself did not recognise, that

their being undoubted does not prove them to be indubi?‘
table; or rather, that the doubt which is cast on some of

them proves conclusively, what common sense, in its con?“
tentment with rules that have exceptions, does not perceive,

that they are highly doubtful.

Cl Our result then is as follows : That a judgment is univerf

sally a necessary combination Of concepts, equally necessary
whether it be true or false. That it must be either true or
false, bit that its truth or falsehood cannot depend on its

relation to anything else whatever, reality, for instance, or

the world in space and time. For both of these must be

supposed to exist, in some sense, if.the truth of our judgment
is to depend upon them; and then it turns out that the
truth of our judgment depends not on them, but on the
judgment that they, being such and such, exist. But this
judgment cannot, in its turn, depend on anything else, for its
truth or falsehood: its truth or its falsehood must be im—T"
mediate properties of its own, not dependent upon any
relation it may have to something else. And, if this be so,
we have removed all reason for the supposition that the
truth and falsehood of other judgments are not equally in?
dependent. For the existential judgment, which is presup?“
posed in Kant’s reference to experience or in Mr. Bradley’s
reference to reality, has turned out to be, as much as any
other, merely a necessary combination of concepts, for the
necessity of which we can seek no ground, and which cannot
be explained as an attribution to ‘the given ’. A concept is
not in any intelligible sense an ‘adjectlve,’ as if there were
something substantive, more ultimate than it. For we must,
if we are to be consistent, describe what appears to be most
substantive as no more than a collection of such supposed M
adjectives: and thus, in the end, the concept turns out to be. TV}; 1

0? 6

 

’I

the only substan
more or less an a
tion of a judgmei

either to our mii

furnish ‘ ground

complex judgmen
ultimate than eitl

of its constituen

idea.

 




or?

THE NATUREQFJUDGMENT 193

the only substantive or subject, and no one concept either
more or less an adjective than any other. From our descripf
tion of a judgment, there must, then, disappear all reference
either to our mind or to the world. Neither of these can
furnish ‘ground’ for anything, save in so far as they are
complex judgments. The nature of the judgment is more
ultimate than either, and less ultimate only than the nature
of its constituentskthe nature of the concept or logical
idea. ‘i’

 




