 

You don’t understand what I say when I bark when you go by, little
boy. You think I bark because I am cross and want to bite you. I say
a great many things that nobody understands. I wish somebody would
understand, for then I might be happier.

A long time ago when I was a puppy I was so happy ! I ran about in
the ﬁelds with my brother, and we tumbled over each other, and we had

ﬁne times running races. We barked just for the fun of it, just as you

shout when you’lfeel happy, and we enjoyed running about just as you do.

You know how good it is to run fast and call out to each other, and
turn head over heels when school is out. Well, we had just such good
times, and we played with the little boy who lives at our house; his name
was Benny. When he had a cooky or anything extra good he would give
us a piece, and we always had fresh water and good food three times a
day.

It seems very longrago since I had those good times. As I lie here
fastened with a chain I think about them, and sometimes when I sleep I
dream that I am a free dog again and can run in the ﬁelds andeat the

(I)

 

 




 

grass when I want it, and go about enjoying all the good earth smells.
After a while, when I grew older, I was given away, and I missed my
brother and the good times, and I wanted dreadfully to see Benny once
more, for I loved that boy.

I used to run and meet him when he came home from school, and
jump up to his neck and lick his face. Then we would have a good run
and tumble together, and after that I would sit and look at him and wag
my tail, and tell him in every way I could how much I loved him and how
sorry Iwas that we could not be together every minute. But I had to go.
away from him and the beautiful ﬁelds with the buttercups and clover
and the cool, soft, green grass. ,

My new master said he wanted me for a watch-dog, and he wanted
me to be very cross if any stranger came near the house. But I did not
feel cross at all at ﬁrst; I only felt unhappy because I wanted to see
Benny, and every time any stranger came I ran out quickly to see if
Benny had come to take me away. \Vhen I rushed out they thought I
was ugly and wanted to bite, and after a while they chained me up. Then
I howled and tried to get away, but they only put on a stronger chain be—
cause I did break away one day.

You think it is hard to have to stay in the house on a rainy day or to
stay after school when you don’t get your lessons. How would you feel
if you were tied with a chain as I am, a chain only long enough for you
to walk a few steps before you had to turn round and walk back again?
How would you like it P I think that pretty soon your legs would begin to
ache and prick, and you would get so nervous that you would want to
kick somebody or something, and you would scream and cry.

At ﬁrst I just howled I was so unhappy ; I could not run as I longed
to do, I could not get the grass to eat which I needed to keep well. Some-
times James the coachman, would forget to give me fresh water, and oh,
how I longed for it ! Dogs that are chained need even more water than
other dogs, but all dogs need to have fresh water always kept handy for
them. Sometimes they would forget to feed me, but even when they did
I wanted very much to go off and bury some bones. I could not do any—
thing that I wanted to do. "

Sometimes they would take me for a walk, but it was never long
enough, and I needed more exercise to be well. I needed to have hours of
running or tramping about, and I only had a little run when it was com
venient for someone to take me. I-never felt really well or happy, and so
do you wonder that after a while I did get cross?

They always praised me when I barked at strangers, and scolded me-
when I let them come in without making a fuss. I found out that they
wanted me to be cross, and I was cross as well as unhappy ; now don’t you
think you would be if you were in my place? When you go by and I.

(2)




bark at you please remember all this and be sorry for me, and don’t do
anything to tease me. I don’t wan’t you to come near me, because I have
been taught to snap at strangers. But when you go by think how you
would like to be in my place, and go by quickly so that I will not be trou-
bled, and do be sorry for me, a most miserable

' CHAINED DOG.

There can be no greater punishment to an active dog than conﬁne-
ment by a chain or in a limited space. Lack of sufficient exercise brings
on disease and usually ends by making a dog sick, sullen or vicious.

One of the promises exacted by the Animal Rescue League, of Bos-
ton, when placing a dog in a home is that he shall not be kept chained,
and that he shall be kept inside the house or stable at night for his own
same and for the sake of the community. Many light sleepers are dis-
turbed at night and sometimes kept awake for hours when in great need
of sleep, by the barking of dogs in the neighborhood. No one has a right
to inﬂict such discomfort on his neighbor, or on his dog. In some cases
it is more than discomfort, it is positive injury where sleep is made impos—
sible at night and cannot be made up by day.

MRS. HUNTINGTON SMITH,

President Animal Rescue League.

Dogs are among the most sensitive of animals, their feelings being
easily hurt and their spirits being easily raised or depressed. Loud words
and harsh language startle and depress them, their sense of hearing is
usually much more sensitive than ours, and their sense of smell is so much
more sensitive that we can hardly understand it.

Like all animals, dogs know much more than they are believed to
know by anybody except those who love and understand them, and feel
their treatment, whether kind or harsh, much more keenly than most peo-
ple think—From Dam!) Animals and How 2‘0 Treat T/zem, by E. R.
Whitehead.

If any person is bitten by a dog, instead of killing the animal he
should be quietly shut up and taken care of for a few days. The chances
are that he will recover, and when it is found that he is not suffering
from hydrophobia the person bitten need not die of fright, but will also
have a chance to recover.

If your dog has a fit, prevent him from getting out on the street, or
some one may raise the cry of “mad dog,” and he may be shot. Put him
in a dark, quiet place, wet his head with cold water frequently, and a few
hours after he has recovered feed him on bread and milk. While the dog
is in the fit you can do nothing but keep him from injuring himself. If
he has a succession of ﬁts send for a veterinary doctor.

(3) K”

A .
I

.. /°‘ .
7““ * 'Z/bﬁ l

 




e ,

In stopping a dog ﬁght, a large pcil’ofaeeld water thrown over the
dogs’ heads will almost alw ys )roﬁLﬁmtive;

Ammonia has been Sig tétEﬁ b’quhou d oil be used with great
care, as it may get into the dog’s 6%mldi, cause r11taéﬂ°§®pa1n or if used
too strong is likely to strbangle the dog. “i *3

THE0 BEST \VAY To KEEP PA DOG THAT NEEDS RESTRAINT is to put
him in a yard with a high fence. If this is not practicable fasten a wire
across any yard ; on this put an iron ring which when attached by a cord
to the dog’s collar will allow him to run backwards and forward, the full
length of the wire. One man had a rope twenty feet long on a ring
which could slip on a wire about thirty feet long stretched between two
trees. The yard ought to have shade as well as sunshine to protect the
dog from too great heat of the sun.

Be sure that your dog has always access to fresh water to drink ; keep
it in a clam dis/z, and see that it is frequently c/znga’a’. Do not allow his
food to be prepared in a careless, slovenly manner.

A dog house should be made with a partition running nearly across it,
behind which he will be protected from the wind. It should also be raised
a few inches from the ground to prevent dampness, which is one cause
of mange, and of- the disease called “Kennel Lameness.” There should
be a sliding panel in the back of the house to let in the sun and air when
the kennel needs ventilation and drying. Give your dog clean straw or
excelsior, or better still, clean pine shavings for his bed. No dog house
is warm enough for a short-haired dog in cold weather. He should by
all means sleep in the house or the barn. ,A St. Bernard or collie, if he
has been accustomed to sleeping out of doors, may be made comfortable
in cold weather, providing the dog house is well built and well furnished
with straw or other bedding. It is certainly more merciful during cold
weather to let your dog sleep in the house, where he is also a better guard
against burglars. i .

Cozmz‘z'y Life says : To allow a dog to lie close before a hot ﬁre dur-
ing the day, and then to turn him into a cold place at night, is the way to
court pneumonia or bronchitis.

CHAINED IN THE YARD.

’Twas only a dog in a kennel, “Bones ! why I heartily loathe them!
And little the noise he made, Nothing but bones and meat,

But it seemed to me, as I heard it, Till I hate my existence, and envy
I knew what that old dog said. The dogs that starve in the street.”

“Another long day to get over ! “Give me my old life of freedom,
Will nobody loosen my chain, Give me a plunge and a swim,

Just for a run round the meadow, A dash and a dive in the river,
Then fasten me up. again P ” A shake and a splash on the brim ! ”

“What’s left 111 my trough is all stagnant, I patted his head and spoke kindly,
Matted with tufts of hair; I thought that his case was hard ;
My kennel is littered and ﬁlthy, Oh ! give him a run in the open,

I’d rather my kennel was bare.” Your dog chained up in the yard.
A71012.,szmmzc Educator.

“ Price 40 cents a hundred, postage paid Address MRS. MARY F. LOVEI1L,\Vor1d s and
National W. C. T. U. Superintendent of Department of Mercy, Jenkintown, P a., U. S. A.”
(4)

 




