To THE OWNERS

AND THOSE WHO HAVE THE CARE OF

/47. / 3/ .,

The writer of this paper has had much expe11eilce8 of hogses ‘
and he trusts that everyone into whose hands it may come will
kindly read the whole of it.

His desire is, that those who have horses or other animals
under their care, should do all 1n their powe1 to make their lives
as comfortable as circumstances will admit, and that they should
use their best endeavours to induce others to do the same.

We should all bear in mind that We depend on animals, not only -
for our pleasures, but for our necessities, andthat the least we can
justly do for them in return for their labour, is to treat them
kindly and feed them properly. We ought not to require them-
to do unreasonable things, or to punish them when they are
doing the best they can by drawing as much, or travelling as fast,
as they ought in reason to be expected to do when well; and we
should remember to make allowance for them when unwell, as
they, like ourselves, are subject to a variety of pains and ailments.

They also suffer from galling and blisters, produced by tight or
bad—ﬁtting collars or other harness, bad feet from unskilful ’
shoeing, strains, and other causes, and therefore the same work
may be much more difﬁcult for them to do on one day than it
may be on another.

' The writer has often been grieved to see the cruelty inﬂicted on
horses when harnessed to a load that they can barely move on
level ground, and which, when they come to a hill or a bad road,
it is all but impossible for them to draw. They are ﬂogged,
kicked, and otherwise ill-used, to endeavour to make them do
that which is beyond their strength; and if, by terrible straining,
they do succeed, h0w sad it is for a poor willing animal to be so
ill—used! and how soon, when so treated, are they injured by
strains, and otherwise disabled! This often makes what is call-ed
a “jib” horse, and when thus spoiled by bad usage, they some—
times refuse to pull steadily at a dead weight; they are then
frequently coaxed and encouraged, but when they have started
the load, they are often ﬂogged in a most cruel manner, which

makes them afraid to move on the next occasion, and if punish-
ment follows movement, a horse 18 more than ever conﬁrmed 1n
the habit of jibbing.

If care was taken not to oveiload horses, and not to expect
them to travel unreasonably fast, it would not be necessary to use

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

  

the whip much, and, with proper management, very light touches
would be all that was‘needed; whereas we often see a horse held
in Zia/2.1,, and the whip thoughtlessly applied, although it is not
desired that he should go any faster. This treatment 1s very.
discouraging, and tends to fret and spoil the temper of the animal.

It is no unusual thing to see a driver, through negligence,
get into mischief, and then ﬂog the horse to induce passers—by to
blame the animal, although the fault was his own.

The habit that some drivers have of continually tugging at the
reins is very objectionable, and should be avoided; the mouth is
tender, and a very gentle movement of the reins ought to be
enough to regulate the movement of the horse; it should be
remembered that the object of the reins is to guide the animal,
not to inﬂict continual pit-Hickman. .

The whip should never be used underneath, on the ﬂank of a
horse; many are injured for life by this treatment, and it is very
cruel.

The use of a tight bearing rein for carriage or other horses
causes great suffering : it keeps the neck in an unnatural and pain-
ful position, and if the bit is not smooth it needlessly hurts the
mouth, and sometimes cuts into the corners ; it tends also to many
other evils, such as wasting the strength, injuring the wind, etc.;
it causes the lower part of the collar to press unduly on the wind-
pipe, the trip part being pulled forward by the horse throwing out
his head, which he is obliged to do, as much as the bearing rein
will admit of, when pulling a heavy load. If a horse has the free
use of 'his head, he can see impediments on the road, and,
should he stumble, he would generally save himself from falling ;
but he cannot do so with a bearing rein, as it renders him
powerless to throw out his head for that purpose, and in no way
assists him, as it falls with him. The bearing rein also prevents
a horse putting out all his strength, which may be proved by
throwing it off the collar when ascending a steep slope or hill
with a heavy load.

Those who cannot decide to give up the rein for draft horses
should, for their own interest as well as for the sake of the horse,
have it so loose as to allow the head and neck to stretch out to the
full extent. The writer thinks that a loose side rein is all that
would be required for a man to take hold of in case of need.
It is hoped that all concerned will seriously look to the subject
in all its bearings.

It is desirable, also, to draw attention to the fact that horses.
are sometimes thrown down, when drawing a heavy load, by an
unexpected and thoughtless cut of the whip, given when they
are doing their utmost. How much better it would be to notice
if 0,11 was being done that could reasonably be expected; for even

 

  




 

 

  

if the blow does not cause a fall, it must be very discouraging to
the creature to be punished when straining every nerve to do the
work allotted to it ; it is not doing as we would be done by—a
golden rule that may be extended to animals with advantage.

When a horse falls and injures the knees, as soon as some
water can be obtained (milk-warm is better than cold) carefully
wash the dirt or grit away, and if more than the skin is broken,
a veterinary surgeon should see him. If a horse falls and a
vehicle is attached, get the harness clear and the vehicle pushed
back, if possible (if it be a heavily—laden cart, care must be taken
to lift the shafts over the legs, by bearing on the back of the cart
or otherwise). Many a horse is much more strained, bruised,-
and injured by endeavouring to rise before he is liberated than
bythe ﬁrst fall; the head should not be knelt on, but simply
held sufﬁciently to prevent his knocking it about in his useless
endeavours to rise. '

Perhaps, reader, the thought has never struck you, that
there is a duty you owe to the dumb creatures placed under your
care. Arelthey not committed to your keeping by the Great
Author of our being? and does He not care for them? Has not
God shown His mercy to us in innumerable ways? and is it not
our duty to be merciful, even as our Father in heaven is merciful. ’4
Think for a moment how we should be situated if He were to ,
deprive us of the assistance of the brute creation. The same
Great Power which keeps us in being sustains them also, and
has committed them to our care to use, but not to abuse. He
has told us that He will bless the merciful; and He has also
said——-—“ I will recompense t/Lem' according to their deeds.”

The owners of horses would do well to remember the
responsibility that rests upon them, as to the care and attention
due from them to the animals they own, and that minister so
much to their pleasures, comfort, and proﬁt.

And now a few words to those whom it may concern, as to the
cruel treatment, and omitting to give water to cattle, sheep,
poultry, etc., when being taken from place to place by rail or
otherwise, the latter closely packed in baskets, which are some-
times thrown about very carelessly. The writer earnestly
entreats those who have to attend to this, to be as merciful as
circumstances will admit of, for with the utmost kindness that
can be used, a great deal of suffering will have to be endured.

In conclusion, it is hoped that this paper will be read in the
same spirit in which it has been written. Many other objection-
able usages might be pointed out, but the writer trusts that,
attention having been drawn to the subject, it will induce kind
and considerate treatment, not only to horses, but to all living
creatures ‘

  




A FEW HINTS THAT MAY BE USEFUL.

. Horses are more delicate than some suppose, and many of the
diseases with which they are afﬂicted arise from a neglect of
proper attention to their needs and reasonable comforts. A
horse should not be fed with hay from a rack over the head, as
the draught beating down is injurious, and the dust, etc, from
the hay is very likely to injure the eyes. When a horse is over-
tired or unwell, and refuses his usual food, he will generally take
a mash of oatmeal milk-warm. When a nosebag is used, it
should be of a close texture, such as leather at the bottom, but
the top should be porous to admit of breathing freely; if the
bag is on long the buckle should be altered, so that the horse
may not be obliged to toss the bag up to get at the food, which
throws it into the nostrils and sometimes into the eyes. The
stable should be well ventilated, but free from draught or damp ;
the ﬂoor should be smooth and nearly level ; it should be well. .
drained and light, for sudden change from darkness unto light
is very trying to the eyes, and a damp offensive ﬂoor is injurious
to the health. The litters to be used again should be carefully
separated from, that which is foul, well shaken up and dried
and the stall thoroughly cleansed, and when the stable is empty, .
the door, etc., should be left open to air it.

If possible, the stall should be large enough to allow the horse
to lie down comfortably in any position; a tired horse will be
glad to lie with his legs stretched out if he has room—a loose
box is very desirable when it can be given; if this cannot be
done, then a light halter block should be used, and care should
be taken to arrange the halter so that it may travel freely to
allow the head to come easily to the litter, for rest and sleep are
as needful as food and water to enable the animal to do the work
required. When a horse comes to the stable wet, he should be
rubbed dry before the cloth is put on; but a cloth should be
put on when he is standing about in the cold. The legs, if very
dirty, should be washed, and the hoofs examined every day for
stones, and to see if the shoes are all right. When the weather
is suitable, it is best for many reasons to. clean the horse in the
open air. To enable a horse to do his work properly and without
torture, the harness should ﬁt well in every part, particularly
the collar, and the bit should also ﬁt well, and be so constructed
as to give as little punishment as possible.

It sometimes happens that a horse becomes restive; in such
case every part of the harness should be examined to see if there

' is any cause. -

AAA,

W Having read this pWhand it to another.
1s. 4d. per 100; post free, 1s. 8d.] [THE ORPHANS’ PRINlING PRESS, LEBMI'NSTER. /

 

 




