ANIMALS’
WELFARE WEE

A NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION ”WM?

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF
ANIMALS’ WELFARE WEEK

COPY

Io-.--

 

Cﬂ LLECTIO N5?

Part of the Centenary Celebrations of the Martin’s Act in 1922 took the form
of an Animals’ Welfare \Veek, and the results, under the self-sacriﬁcing labours of
Miss M. E. Ford, justiﬁed an attempt to carry forward the idea in future years.
The National Council for Animals’ W'elfare \Veek was formed in January, 1923,
and in that and following years the “Week” has been observed as a national
demonstration. Each year the demonstration has shown marked development,
more especially in the number of provincial towns and districts taking part. From
a few towns, mainly in the home counties, in 1922, the movement has spread until
now not only individual towns but whole areas are being organised under local
committees, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and Southern Ireland each having
their own honorary secretaries. Into all these and other districts speakers on animals’
welfare travel during the annual “\Neek” to champion the cause of our animal
friends. Street processions are organised, education authorities and individual
schools and colleges are approached to allow special lessons during the “Week,” and
churches and societies to arrange special sermons and addresses. There is a special
campaign in the Press throughout the country. In all these activities numerous
other societies co-operate.

“ What good does Animals’ Welfare Week do? ” is frequently asked ; or again,
“ In what does it differ from the work of animals’ welfare societies 9” Quite
naturally we ﬁnd it much easier to grasp the need for a speciﬁc reform in the every-
day world of things, than for the reconsideration of those wider principles of conduct
which affect a whole series of reforms. That is to say, we see the need for killing an
ox as painlessly as possible more easily than we can the possibility of not slaughtering
at all; or of inspecting and controlling the work of vivisection than of refusing
altogether any problematical beneﬁt arising from its practice; of controlling the
trade in worn-out horses than in questioning our right to enslave them in our service.

The Council for Ai‘iimals’ Welfare, as a body, is not concerned to advocate any
particular measure of reform; it stands :for no speciﬁc legislative changes. lts
object is to establish in the national life a public demonstration during one week in

 




every year, when, by means of conferences, processions, special lessons, and othe1 _
appropriate f01 ms of demonst1ation, public attention may be concentrated upon the
need for the introduction of a g1eater all- round humaneness in 0111 dealings With
the animals. By these methods it hopes to strengthen the public appeal of all
societies working in the cause of animals’ welfare. , ~

In order that this annual national demonstration shall cover the widest pessible

field, the Council includes in its membership persons of all shades of opinion. One
who believes himself or herself to be a humanitarian, is eligible for membership

without inquiry as to the meaning he or she may attach to the word “ h11manitaria‘f‘11’3a

The Council, therefore, consists of persons well known in many branches of human
activity who hold diverse opinions on the numerous reforms advocated for the
welfare of animals, but who exercise no right to question or control the opinions of
their fellow members.

It will not be assumed, however, that the work of the Council is of a negative
or non-committal character. In stimulating individuals and societies to a re—
consideration, for thmnselves, of those principles which underlie all their relations
with the animals, it holds that its work is of vital signiﬁcance in the fact that sooner
or later the whole of what is now the conventional daily treatment of animals will
be under public‘question, and that much of it will be changed.

In his “Back to Methusaleh” George Bernard Shaw shows the far-reaching
signiﬁcance of these principles by connecting the slaughter of animals with the origin
of war. Cain, accused by Adam of killing Abel, replies that Abel started the game
of murder when he killed the animals for food and offered them on the altar. “If
he killed the beasts,” says Cain, in effect, “why should I not kill him—a nobler
sacriﬁce? ” And then he develops the idea and looks forward to the time when he
shall lead an army of ﬁghters against another army under his most powerful enemy.

The sacred chain of life broken at one point leads to a whole series of breakages.
The sincere reformer who attempts to deal with these breakages piecemeal ﬁnds
a whole mass of reforms behind each reform accomplished. Let the principle once
be grasped that man is not an isolated struggling unit but part of the great circle of
life, inseparably connected from the highest to the lowest, responsible for the
guardianship of that part of life within his power, then not this or that particular
reform but the whole relationship with the animals is in question. Food, dress,
medicine, science, sport, amusement, all these and our habits and customs concerning
them must be re-considered in the light of the new principle. Not one change but

a whole series of changes in the life is then demanded.
HENRY J. STONE.

 

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
(Incorporating Animals’ Welfare Week)

1 [h‘i'x A I" --v,‘(‘ III/«II 1' 1444(1xmv f .,. ~-———‘" 1‘ 1
ﬁ'f’plllnnl‘bIUlVE l)UILU1uaa, lrztzu [lk/lJUm\lV, L4\JLVU\ILV, \\.\5"‘1’. .

‘5»;

 




