 

 

 

 

Price 6d.

 

 

 

 

 

xi/l for [01/6 of a lady

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
52, QUEEN’S AVENUE, MUSWELL HILL, LONDON, N.Io.

Subscrz’p/z’mz or One Year, [705! free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND i: [mo/isbed monthly by the National Council for Animals’ Wetfare

at Queen’s Lodge, 52, Queen’s Ao‘enne, Mame/l Hill, London, N .10, and all commnnicationr’

regarding t/Je magazine soon/d be addressed to tbe Editors.

Editors: YVONNE A. M. STOTT and J. LEONARD CATHER.

 

 

 

 

Vol. XLIX. March—April, 1943 i . NO. 3
C O N T E N T S .

Page 7 - Page

QUARTERLY CONFERENCE OF ANIMAL MAN IN MINIATURE. R073; Brier/(g; . . 43
WELFARE SOCIETIES ~ ° ' 4O CONFESSIONS OF AN ANIMAL LOVER.

APPEAL FOR PRAYERS FOR ANIMALS . 4o " Geoﬂrey H“ Bow’é” ' ‘ ‘ 45

CEYLON’S BABY ELEPHANTS. E. N. O. ,

NEW TEXTILE REVOLUTION, A . . 41 Somanader . . . 46

PIT PONIES’ PROTECTION SOCIETY . . 8

LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS, THE . 42 4
SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF OF VIVISECTION, THE . . . - 49

CRUEL SPORTS, THE . . . . 42 ’ CORRESPONDENCE . . . . . 50

The opinions expressed by Contributors to this Magazine
are their own and are not necessarily held by the Editors.

 

 

 

 

National COuncil for Animals’ W'elfare

ANIMALS’ WELFARE WEEK.

Animals’ Welfare Week is tO be held this year from Sunday, April 4th to Sunday, April I Itl’b
although any other period may be chosen to suit local conditions. Readers of THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND areasked to co-operate by writing to their local school-teachers, ministers Of religion,
leaders Of youth organisations, etc. \Ve should be glad to send specimens of letters suitable
for this if desired, also leaﬂets and posters.

I

JOINT ANIMALS’ FLAG DAY.

Readers are reminded that the only ﬂag day for Animals in London and Greater London
will take place on Tuesday, May 25th. We need far more sellers and depots and would be
glad to know of anyone who will help in this way if in or near London, or who knows a
friend who might do so. If everything fails, then perhaps a donation would be just as
useful! Send to N.C.A.\W., 32, Queen’s Avenue, London, N.IO.

ANIMALS’ FRIEND CALENDAR, 1944.

Quotations for this are coming in, but many more are still required. They should not be
more than four lines. Name and address Of sender, name of author, and I /— for each quotation
Should be sent as soon as pOSSIble to ensure acceptance. ,

38 ‘

 

 

 

 

!
l
l
l
l
l
)
\
I




 

 

 

 

(
l
l
l
i

H

1Mm‘C/1’A pril, 1943

Notes and Comments

War and the Animals.

There seems to be no end to the martyrdom of the
animal kingdom. in the interests of this man-made war !
There was a Heath in one of the loveliest spots in Surrey
——-it was not very many miles in extent, but large enough
to abound in birds and wild life. It comprised an open
plain, covered with grass, bracken and heather, and two
valleys, one bare and wild, the other intimate, gracious,
clothed with bushes, trees, bracken and heather, bright
in spring and summer with a succession of ﬂowers on
earth and bush and tree. Now, a sea of mud replaces
the bracken on the plain, and on the wide plateau
between the two valleys the pleasant paths have dis—
appeared and in their stead two wide roads sear the
wooded valley, cut right into the sides of the hill, one
on each side and running its whole length; for what
purpose, the Army alone knows, having destroyed
bushes, trees, bracken and fern in their making.

The human beings who loved the Heath mourn much
beauty lost, but this is their war—they either connived
at it or failed to do anything to stop it. What of the
birds, the little mammals, the butterﬂies and insects;
yes, even the reptiles and slow worms, that have lost
their homes, their nesting-places and, if hibernating,
their lives under the cruel wheels and “ caterpillars ”
of tank, jeep and ﬂame-thrower? And this is not the
only place. We hear that the same scenes of desolation
can be found all over England and one wonders how
much of England’s wild life will be left after the war.
Surely the need for sanctuaries for the survivors will
be greater than ever if we are to save some, at least,
of our vanishing fauna.

Language of Animals.

On another page will be found an article by Corp.
Rory Brierley, in which he mentions the voices of animals
and their near relation to our own. In this connection
we were interested to read in Tim Greater World an
account by C. Hammersley of his experiments in animal
sounds. He says:

“ Speaking of cows . . they have a language
of their own, which I have studied. Their calls to
each other are surprising, and I have on many
occasions imitated them and they have answered me
back. They have a very special call to give alarm,
or for fear, when immediately ’all in the barn are on
the alert. If in pasture, they will run to the one who
gave out the alarm to protect, or ﬁght, if necessary,
the adversary. On many occasions I have spoken
to a nervous cow or heifer in their language by
imitating their different sounds, and they have become
quiet.

“ And now just a few words about the noble
animal, the horse. I have also studied the language
of horses, and on many occasions for fun I have
called in their language to a bunch of them when
out on the prairie, and they would come running
up to within a short distance of me.”

Animal Friends.

It was pleasant to read in the Evening New: of the
friendship felt by a donkey for a mother cat and her
litter which were born in his manger. The donkey’s
owner, with probably quite good intentions, removed

39

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

the family, whereupon the donkey refused to eat for
two days and would not be comforted until the cat
and her kittens were brou ht back again on the advice
of the local P.D.S.A. expert, who had been called in.
Dying Animals. ,

It is generally thought that elephants, when dying,
are accustomed to retire to one special place, the
accepted cemetery of the herd. Now we hear from
Dr. R. C. Murphy, curator of the American Museum
of Natural History, that he discovered a pool on the
summit of a long hill at South Georgia Island, where
lay “ hundreds, perhaps thousands of dead penguins
that had made the last weary climb to reach this peaceful
spot,” and around the margin stood several sickly
looking penguins, silent and drooping, seemingly
exhausted by the long climb.

The United Humanitarian League has asked us to
mention that their address is now 24, Redhoods Way
East, Letchworth. Mr. Charles Westacott, well-known
to our readers as “ Onlooker,” is the Secretary.

To Rid the World of War and of all other
Tyrannies.

The only way to rid the world of tyrannies is to
remove the temptation to tyrannise by popularising
humane substitutes, namely, tolerance for intolerance
of all save tyranny pending conversion ; protectiveness
for aggressiveness ; observation for molestation ; recol—
lection for collection; preservation for destruction of
insectivorous and verminivorous birds; wire-chaining
for post—chaining of dogs; screen and sanctuary for
cages and compounds; human for animal performers ;
mechanical for equine haulage in mines ; humane (frog-
pressure) for inhumane shoeing; natural features for
fashionable mutilations; herbal medicines for animal
injections; vivisection (X—raying) for vivisection ;
accidental for experimental injuries; anaesthetised for
unanaesthetised inevitable operations; vegetable for
animal diet; humane for inhumane slaughter; humane
slaughter for export and exploitation of worn-out
horses; canine and avian for artificial (trapping and
poisoning) destruction of vermin; fureens and feather—-
eens for furs and feathers; games and sports for blood
sports (including war), co—operationism for competitio n-—
ism (in business and on battleﬁelds).

S. CLAUDE TICKELL,
Vicar of Lalton-eum— Eyrey, Wi/z‘r.

 

 

 

.- 23v". - ate».

   

One of tbe “ mgr.” .S’ee page 43.

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Quarterly Conference
of Animal Welfare

Societies

What It Is.

HE Quarterly Conference of Animal

Welfare Societies 18 an informal gathering

of representatives of various organisations
in the Animal Welfare Movement that takes
place every three months. The Conference
provides an opportunity to discuss subjects of
interest to any or all the societies taking part
on a basis of mutual goodwill. It serves, if
need arises, as a clearing house of information
respecting matters of interest to any or all the
participating societies. It considers questions
affecting the work or aims of particular socie—
ties, even questions that may be regarded as
controversial, in a spirit of tolerance and
sympathy. It is open to receive suggestions
as to methods of carrying on work or propa—
ganda that may be useful to one or more
societies. It can and does agree to support
resolutions of a general character on which
there is likely to be a wide or unanimous con—
sensus of opinion. It is ’convened by the
National Council for Animals’ Welfare as a
matter of convenience.

What .It Is Not.

The Quarterly Conference of Animal Wel-
fare 'Societies is not another society or body
with a constitution, rules, regulations, aims
and objects. It has no official status of any
kind in relation to the Animal Welfare Move—
ment or to any single society. It does not keep
Minutes, though a brief account of the pro—
ceedings are recorded in an informal way. It
has no accounts, but each society voluntarily
sends gifts to pay for whatever expenses may be
incurred in paying for rent of room, postages,
etc. Its Chairman and Hon. Secretary are not
officials in the ordinary sense, but act as such
at the desire of the Conference as expressed
from time to time.

The above seems to me to give some idea
of the “ Quarterly Conference ” as it is some—
times called. It is my own personal view, of
course, and more than that it cannot be.

D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS.

(Chairman, I 94 2-4 3)

, JEFFREY \WILLIAMS,

Marc/1A Fri], I 9 5’3

Appeal for Prayers for

Animals

Resolution by the Quarterly Conference of
Animal Welfare Societies.

HIS .Quarterly Conference of Animal

Welfare Societies, held in London, on

January 18th, 1943, begs to call attention
to the widespread desire among religious and
humane people, that prayers offered on behalf
of the afﬂicted, tortured, the wounded, sick
and those taken prisoner in war, be supple—
mented and extended so as to include all
animals suffering because of the incidence of
war, and that those actually taking part in the
ﬁghting, especially horses, and those who serve
and labour for our daily needs be also called
to mind in our supplications and public
worship.

This ConferenCe suggests that since animals
have kinship with ourselves in various ways,
and since they are helpless and depend upon
us as we upon them in so many ways, it is
both right and proper that we offer prayers on
their behalf to the One God who made and
created all creatures, and \Vho in His Provi—
dence sustains and provides for them.

Further, that copies of this Resolution be
sent to the Archbishop of Canterbury, the
Moderator of the Church of Scotland, the
Moderators of the Free Churches in England
and Wales, Cardinal Hinsley, the Chief Rabbi,
the leaders of other important religious bodies,
and to the religious weeklies.——-(Signed) D
YVONNE A. M. STOTT,
Chairman and Secretary of Convening Society.

The Archbishop’s Reply.

Lambeth Palace, S.E.I.
22nd January, 1945.
DEAR SIR,

The Archbishop asks me to acknowledge
with thanks your letter of 20th January, con—
taining the resolution from the Quarterly
Conference of Animal Welfare Societies. The
question of prayers for animals is being given
careful consideration and will receive special
attention when any new forms of prayer are

issued.
Yours faithfully,

IAN H. WHITE—THOMSON,
C/mp/ai/z.

For reply from Soc/'69! of Friend; reg page A7.

40

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Marc/zeApril, I 943

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A New Textile Revolution ?
THE DEPARTURE FROM ANIMAL PRODUCTS.

By D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS.

N a letter kindly sent to us in reply to an

enquiry, the Editor of Tlae Textile Mann—

faetnrer drew our attention to the fact that
British Celanese, Ltd., and Courtaulds, Ltd.,
are producing some attractive pile fabrics from
synthetic ﬁbres. Both ﬁrms have outstanding
examples and new forms of ﬁbre, e. g, water—
repellent ﬁbre, ﬂat ﬁlament, curled and shrunk
ﬁbres, and other new substances.

Our enquiry related to fur-fabrics and the
non—use of skins and furs obtained by means
of trapping. It will be seen from the above
remarks that the textile industry is slowly mov—
ing away from the use of wool and various
kinds of hairs obtained from animals. We
presume that even sheep—farming for wool
alone on a large scale, and on a commercial
basis, involves much that is objectionable and
even cruel from our standpoint.

We were led further into this very interesting
development by the following editorial remarks
in T/Je Textile Mannfaetnrer, January, I 94 3 :

“ Broadly speaking, the Allies have the
control of supplies of cotton, wool, jute and
sisal, whilst the enemy countries have now
the main supplies of silk, flax and hemps. In
total, cotton, wool, and jute are much the
more important economically, and militarily.
Hence the Axis countries before and during
the war have greatly expanded the produc—
tion of cellulose and other types of rayon.
Similarly, alternatives to silk have been
developed in Allied countries in a lesser way,
but in substantial amounts, as in the case of
nylon. This is one way in which technical
progress has been encouraged. It is part of a
larger movement which includes synthetic
rubber—like products and plastics. T/Je many
.g/nt/oetie resins are likeb/ to provide in the post—
war period not only new textile fibres, [out also
new eonstrnetions and finisloes of existing
materials. Here is a teennieal and eommereial
development on a sea/e were]; is itself a textile
revolution. . . .” (Italics ours.)

We learn that the public hears little during
the war of the changes that are going on in
industrial materials and methods. Research 15

‘41

almost invariably secret and the products go to
the Services, not to the priVate consumer. Some
reported remarks by Dr. Henry Dreyfus, chair—
man of British Celanese, in mid-January,
suggest that we ,shall discover many new
things when production returns to peace work
once more. Research and development of
processes, said Dr. Dreyfus, cover various
chemicals used for many different purposes,
especially for textiles—synthetic or otherwise
——and plastics. Progress has also been made
with various textile products, including “ high
tenacity yarns ” and other new textiles built up
completely (synthetically) from coal with or
without nitrogen. Many other ﬁrms are, of
course, developing new products and processes
but it is seldom that we obtain a hint of what is
going on behind the scenes. As and'when we
do come across some of these interesting new
developments we shall pass them on to our
readers. Even the news of the possible lifting
of the heavy load now carried by the animals,
or news of the possible decrease in the use and ’
exploitation of animals for human uses, will
always be welcomed gladly, we feel sure.

It is now the policy of the GOVernment
authorities concerned to make rayon and other
synthetic ﬁbres meet a still larger proportion
of the demand for textiles for export require—
ments, as well as for civilian use at home.
Stocks of rayon yarns, however, in producers’
hands are reported to be at the lowest level
for many years, and the rayon producing
industry is operating under an Essential \Vlbrk
Order with a limited labour force.

 

 

T/Je Beaver
on work of
National

Importance.

Nearly
exterminated
in some parts
— , of Canada
"1" . i for his fnr.

 

 




 

 

\

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The League Against
Cruel Sports

2 59, Hurst Road, Sidcup, Kent.

Red Cross Distributes F.S.S. Publications.

E are very loath to criticise the action
I of a society which exercises such a
noble and humane ministry as the

British Red Cross Society, but recently our
attention was drawn to a Press report of three

booklets, especially written for prisoners of .

war and published by the British Field Sports
Society, which had been handed to the Red
Cross for distribution. One deals with ﬁshing,
hunting and shooting. The second consists of
questions and answers on sport, whilst the
third lists the results of games and sporting
events for 20 years.

, We wrote to the Red Cross referring to this
report and stating we should be glad to send
them as many copies of our booklet: “ This
Cruelty Called Sport ” as they would care to
accept, but they regretted they did not feel
able to accept this offer.

We then pointed out that, in our opinion,
the Red Cross, which appeals for, and receives
the financial support of the general public,
should not distribute the publications of a
propagandist organisation like the B.F.S.S.,
which exists to promote practices which are
highly controversial, as this might very well
cause offence to many of their non-sporting
subscribers unless similar facilities were
granted for their views to be represented.

As we write these notes we are awaiting
the comments of the Red Cross.

Still Coursing.

According to Daily Mail reports, coursing
took place at Altcar and Salisbury last Novem-
ber, and again at the former place in January.
The Waterloo Cup Committee have arranged
this year’s Cup meetings to start on March
3rd “if the national situation permits.”

Protests were sent to all the local newspapers,
and also to M.P.s. We want to know if it is
still the practice, as alleged by one of the
“ sporting gentry ” twelve months ago, to
keep dogs coursing ﬁt on a daily menu which
includes the gravy from stewed beef steak,
Benger’s Food, tinned chickens’ breasts, and
new—laid eggs whisked with port wine.

42

Marc/1 [A pm], 1943

The National Society for ‘

Abolition of Cruel Sports

255, Cowley Road, Oxford.
ThexPests Ofﬁcer.

N editorial article in The Camber/and aaa’

Wertmor/aﬂa’ Hera/d (30/1/45) draws atten-

tion to the function of that wartime
creation, the Pests Ofﬁcer. Since it is the duty
of this official, in the particular area to which
he is appointed, to rid the countryside Of
“ pests ” which may hinder the production of
food, his activities are a matter of concern to
agricultural economists and naturalists alike.
The writer of the article points out that the
farmers’ most destructive enemy, the rat, is
apparently left to breed and multiply (except
during the annual National Rat Week) while
the Pests Officer devotes his energies to the
destruction of rarer species, such as fox and

badger.

There seems little or no danger that the
present hunting and shooting campaign against
the "fox will endanger the survival of that
species. Our own feeling on that matter is
well expressed in the following ironic comment
which concludes an editorial on “ Better
Hunting ”in T193 Mam/9652967” Guardian (1/12/42) :
“ Foxes have been kept alive for years solely
for fox-hunting, and now they are being
‘ exterminated ’ by smaller doses of the same
medicine more rapidly and cheaply than by
any other method. And if the process con—
tinues hunting itself _will be exterminated.
But that remains 2‘0 be seen.”

Unfortunately, however, that section of the
community which appears to be waiting,
hunting-crop in hand, for the cessation of
hostilities, has no such interest in the protection
of the badger. It is encouraging that at the
present time Brock has many supporters who
recognise his economic value, and it is to be
hoped that these may succeed in checking
efforts directed towards his extermination.
None the less it is disturbing to read that the
Pests Officer of the Cumberland and Westmor-
land Agricultural Committee, in referring to
foxes and carrion crows, stated that “ war by
means of shoots has been declared on the latter
but that other means have been adopted against
badgers.”

 

""‘““ 1,: at ,

~ M-‘l—v-m -

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mart/1A przl. I943

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Man in Miniature

By RORY BRIERLEY.

“ T/ee renrey and in—
tuitions, tbe nations
emotions and ' facultier,
rite/e a: [055, nee/720731,

' attention, curiosity, imita—
; tion, reason, eta, of wen/y
l Man boartx, may} be
.' found in an incipient, or
even sometimes well do-
zielopetl condition, in the
lower animal.”
—DARWIN.

      
 

upon the smallest cog as upon the largest

single piece of his machinery. He knows
that every section must be strong enough for
its particular task and must work in harmony
with its fellows in order for the whole unit to
perform its assigned job. The large wheels
must wait upon the smaller ones, they cannot
rush off on their own for that would ruin
everything. Nothing could be accomplished
if the various parts suited themselves and
refused to work together.

A‘N engineer knows that as much depends

The man in charge, therefore, sees to it that
the tiniest screw receives all the attention that
is-needed. Its future welfare is as essential
as that of the giant plough, or cutting blade,
or whatever else finally performs the executive
task of the machine. The failure of that tiny
screw means the failure of the whole.

The universe is struggling towards harmony
between its individual factors. Man has
developed a brain capable of original thought
and guided by a divine intuition, and he has
these talents for a special purpose—to observe
the needs of his environment, to think carefully
about them, to calculate, to experiment, and to
exeCute not only running repairs but also any
improvements he can deVise which are con—
sistent with the aims of Nature. He is, how—
ever, deﬁnitely NOT the man in charge of the
machine—else he would pay far more attention
to the small cogs ! As matters stand, he hardly
appreciates their existence and has even less
conception of their importance.

.43

Sometimes—and with no little surprise—he
wakes up to the fact that the despised worm
and insect play a tremendous part in enabling
the earth to yield it's plentiful bounty—upon
which he gorges himself with a selﬁsh glee,
and snarls savagely at the wasp and bee when
they amble up to take a sample of the plum
jam and honey. Does it ever sink into his
dim mind that he would never have had those
sweet luxuries if it had not been for the
untiring exertions of those tiny cogs? What a
blind, self—centred, smug hypocrite has he
become in this world of plenty!

Let us change all this. Let us be‘fair (we
pride ourselves on our fairness, don’t we P)
and admit that the future of the Little People
is as important as our own. It is, of course,
true that they are not so developed as we are.
Not one of them can deceive as well. as we can,
not one of them can ﬂoat bogus companies,
sell adulterated food, make shoddy goods,
build rotten houses, kill, murder, lie, blas—
pheme, slander, cheat, trap, torture, break laws
with the same ease as we make them, and waste
time, as we can. All these things are the result
of misuse of our godlike powers. Perhaps
when the animal of to—day reaches its human
stage (even as we have done in our upward
progress from the animal through Pithecan-
thropus and Troglodyte) in the far—0H epochs
ahead it will make a better use of its gifts.
Meanwhile, truly its reasoning and other
capabilities are not so good as ours, though it
is also true that in many respects such as
vision, hearing, sense of smell, speed, and
strength, some species are far superior to us.

But does the Man despise the Schoolboy for
his lesser knowledge, strength and stature?
Or does he help the Schoolboy to develop even
better than he, the Man, did in his time?

We, too, were young once . . not only as
children at school, but long before that we
were young in the university of life itself,
small and helpless in the fires and ﬂoods of a
child—planet, timid and doubtful when we
looked around our great new home, but
always helped in our unguarded hours by the
super—mortal powers whose throbbing vitality
has sustained us from the beginning and will
do so till the end. Let us, with due humility,

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

remember this when it is our turn to pass on
the beneﬁts received. And it has been our
turn for a long time. We have two eyes, one
open for ourselves, and the other for the
needs of others, and the latter eye has always
been three-quarters blind!

Look again at that quotation from Darwin,
and see if it does not ﬁt in with your own
experience . . . these Little People, these
amazingly varied, these quaint, everlastingly
interesting, busy, little things! They are
wonderfully impressive when they are studied
properly. They‘are capable of being sorrow-
ful or happy, they love and they hate and they
can be indifferent; they know hope and
despair, anger and jOy, they can remember in
their own way and they can learn, and how
often has their unknown source of knowledge
(which we jealous humans casually call
instinct—lest we credit them with too much !)
warned them of danger and trouble?

And now that we are on the subject, lest we
pride ourselves unduly upon our superior
reasoning powers, let us recall in how many
ways many of these “lower ” beings can out-
strip us, as was remarked above. Just think
upon that point for a while, it is worth medi-
tation. We cannot match the eye of the eagle,
speed of the lion, endurance of the horse,
sense of smell of the antelope, the hearing of
the jungle beast, nor the age of the parrot and
tortoise. How we would love to possess those
powers !

And there are those still deeper powers
which we envy, and cannot yet understand,
since they have no obvious three—dimensional
reason. There are many queer cases of a kind
of telepathy and other means of communica—
tion between the Little Folk—in fact there is
a whole host of extraordinary things which are
loosely attributed to “ instinct ” for want of a
better explanation of our ignorance. Since
men have taken the trouble to record these
things it is clear that gradually through the
confusion of life it is dawning upon them
that the power of the human brain is not the
only marvel in the world.

Surely these are not the qualities of base
things, ﬁt only for contempt and exploitation?
Far more they savour of the qualities of
struggling intelligences, of potential men of a
distant future, the humanity of a far—off age
when we men of to-day shall have passed on
to greater tasks in the service of our God.

Much of our contempt for the capabilities of

Marc/1 aA pril, 1943

animals has its origin in ignorance, because
discerning persons who have had long and
close experience of some animal or species are
almost always heard to say that they are really
very intelligent, and much lore has been
collected on the subject.

One frequently notices in accounts by
animal observers that they insist that the
creatures have individual personalities, and this
should be accepted in view of their experience.
It is nOt, however, a thing which must be
accepted on trust—it can be personally tested
by you, but in all probability you will be able
to vouch for it at once from your own experi-
ence. Those interested will ﬁnd many remark-
able works listed in their local public library.

There they will ﬁnd it clearly shown by
qualiﬁed persons that the more/one investi—
gates, the more one is amazed at the mental
capacity of these beings. Various writers,
from their own researches upon the particular
point, afﬁrm that animals have minds, and
have personalities. “ Nothing,” writes Frances
Pitt, for instance, “ is more strongly impressed
upon the earnest observer of animals, and
especially of wild life, than the purposeful air
which pervades their doings . . . in their
comings and goings we can see purpose—it is
written all over their busy activities! ” And
Grey Owl from his \Wilderness also wrote:
“I have none the less been long convinced
that, in many species, they are capable, to a
more or less limited degree, of the power of

thought.”

One great, tremendously vital point (and
one which anyone can test personally) is that
these creatures mm /mm from experience—and
that is the very same stony path along which we
ourselves have crawled in response to the inner
urgings which would not be denied. Is it not
plain that their feet are on the same road, that
their eyes are on the same goal—that we should
extend a helping hand, instead of trampling
upon the little paws stretching .out for a
foothold? V

It is apt to pause here and pay tribute to that
long line of sketchers and cartoonists of
animals who have, consciously or uncon-
sciously, foretold the epochs to come by .
making their creations act and speak like
humans, and whose efforts have led us to a
greater appreciation of the delights of animal
companionship, and their quaint winning
ways. '

Continued on page 48.

44

 




 

Marc/1A Fri], I 943

THE ANIMALS FRIEND

Confessions of An Animal-Lover

By GEOFFREY‘ H. BOWKER.

Why I Am an Anti-Vivisectionist.

remarked that he - was converted to

Christianity, not by the arguments of the
Christian apologists, but by those put forth by
its opponents. Similarly, I must say that my
Conﬁrmed belief in the anti-vivisection cause
is largely due to the absurdity—and sometimes
the downright dishonesty—of many of the
contentions propounded by those who favour
experiments on animals. ' '

Regard, for instance, the assertion which has
been made times without number in print and
in public debates—that “ vivisection in this
country is carefully controlled by law.” Well,
but gambling and the consumption of alco-
holic liquor are carefully controlled by law,
yet a great deal of both takes place under
entirely legal conditions. i

The burning of Joan of Arc was carefully
Controlled by law—and so, for that matter, was
the cruciﬁxion of Jesus Christ—yet history
leads us to suppose that both of them happened.

Then there is that precious document, the
annual Home Office Return of Experiments on
Living Animals, of which perhaps the best
that can be said is that the Home Office has
made the war an excuse for dropping its
publication.

But it was published regularly for many
years, and I honestly believe that a careful and
informed study of its pages by any impartial
person of normal sensibilities would result in
another convert to anti-vivisection right away.

The Return states that -“ serious operations

THE late lamented G. K. Chesterton once

are always required to be performed under an _

anaesthetic.” The same statement is repeated
in a slightly different form lower down. Pre—
sumably the expectation is that the casual
reader will conclude that all severe experiments
are done on animals which have been well and
truly do‘ped.

In reality, this statement is grossly mis—
leading. It takes no account of the fact that
whilst under an anzesthetic an animal can be
horribly mutilated and then allowed to recover
consciousness. It also ignores the fact that
some of the most dreadful—and most numer—
ous—procedures are not “ serious operations,”
and that therefore the law does not require the
emplOyment of anaesthetics. Yet what can be

45

more cruel than to inject into a creature’s body
diseases like cancer, or tetanus, or rabies——
to mention three typical non-operative experi—
ments ? * * *

The Home Ofﬁce Return also cites what it
calls a “ pain condition ” which is said to be
attached to the vivisectors’ licences. This lays
down that if during an experiment an animal
is found to be suffering severe pain, then certain
things are required to be done. .

Incidentally, of course, the admission in this
Government publication that the researchers’
victims actually are liable to suffer severe pain,
knocks the bottom out of the popular fallacy
that there never is serious pain in vivisection.

But supposing an animal is found to be
suffering severe pain. What is the experi—
menter required to do? Immediately to put it
out of its misery? Not a bit‘of it. If an
Inspector happens to be present (which he
hardly ever is) and zf he agrees that the pain
is considerable, and 2f he so chooses, then he
may order the animal to be painlessly killed.

The pain condition also orders that 2f the
animal is “ found to be suffering pain which is
either severe or is likely to endure, and if the
main result of the experiment has been at—
tained,” a similar merciful release is demanded.

Lastly, the pain condition provides that

“ If an animal during any of the said experi—
ment is found to be suffering severe pain which
is likely to endure, such animal shall forthwith
be painlessly killed.”

The bogus character of this last-quoted
clause is particularly glaring. How many viv—
sectors are likely to “ ﬁnd ” conditions which
would terminate an elaborate experiment
prematurely? And how is “ severe pain ” to
be deﬁned, still less registered ? And how can
it invariably be foreseen whether the pain will
“ endure ” or not? And what is meant by the
word “ endure ”———does it mean, endure for
ﬁve minutes or ﬁve hours or for a fortnight
and more?

There is much more similar circumstantial
proof that vivisection is liable to entail dreadful
suffering. The direct evidence that it actually
does so is afforded by almost every issue of the
different medical and other scientiﬁc journals.

- Continued on page 47.

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Ceylon’s Baby Elephants

 

ONE of the loveliest sights in the “ park—

land ” regions of Ceylon’s forest country

is the meeting of a herdiof wild elephants
of all sizes and ages, an old female being the
leader, followed by several mothers with their
newly-born calves.

As a general rule, one calf is born at a birth,
but there “are one or two rare instances of cow-
elephants which have brought forth twins.

These elephant babies are very playful
vcreatures, but they seldom roam about far
away from their mothers. The latter, in turn,
are very devoted to their young, and would
very seldom desert them, even for a while, lest
any danger may ove'rtake their offspring.

I know, however, of an instance which
happened not very long ago when an elephant—'
baby, presumably browsing on the open jungle
road some distance away from its mother, was
separated by a passing omnibus, which drove
the little brute in front for a good hundred
yards or more. While it was trotting along,
another motor bus approached from the
opposite direction; and the helpless baby,
being puzzled as to what to do, stood stark
still on the open road.

Both the vehicles being brought to a halt,
with the panic-stricken infant in between,
some of the passengers managed to get a rope
and noose the ﬂabbergasted fellow without
much difﬁculty.

M a rd] «A 11777], 1943

A young

“ jumbo ” trying
all his great
rtrengtb to
lifting z‘z'mber.

Photo by

E. N. 0. Somanader
Batticaloa,

Ceylon.

The baby measured about two feet and
eleven inches in height, and was scarcely a
month old. It was a male calf. It was then
despatched to the Chief Headman of the
nearest village where, to keep it alive, several

bottles of buffalo milk had to be pressed into

46

service, though the captured baby did not seem
to relish it as much as it did its own mother’s
milk.

Subsequently, as is usual under such
peculiar circumstances, the Headman, on be—
half of the Government, had to auction the
baby before a large assembly of rural folks, and
the animal was ultimately knocked down for
Rs. 60 (about £4), the purchaser being a sur—
veyor friend of mine, who happened to be
working in the forest country at that time.
It was about 70 miles from my place.

An urgent message to me to come over and
photograph the prized pet brought me 'to
his doorstep in about three hours. And, when
I went, I saw the lovely little creature sleeping
soundly in a “ cadjan ” shed specially put up
for him. .

In its new home, I found the baby very
kindly looked after by its owner and wife, who
fed it with liberal draughts of buffalo milk,
followed by plantains offered as dessert. It
often roamed about the garden and chummed
up with the surveyor’s little daughter, 'some—

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Marc/1’14 Fri], 1943

times going indoors as‘far as the dining table
in search of some dainty morsel. But, in
spite of it all, the animal began to grow
emaciated, with its skin shrunken, and its
juvenile spirit not a little depressed. As days
went by, it grew more and more “ mummy—
sick,” and seemed to long for the freedom of
its forest home. It was, however, too late to
return the baby to the jungle, especially when
the whereabouts of the mother were not known.

A change in the diet, which now consisted of
rice gruel and small balls of soft rice did not
improve matters. On the other hand, it made
things worse—and in a few days the poor beast
was no more ! Despite all the loving devotion,
it had died of indigestion, weakness, and
starvation (due to unsuitable food), not to
mention the consequences arising from shock,
grief, and a broken heart.

It may be mentioned in this connection that

 

Reply of the Society of Friends to Appeal
for Prayers for Animals (586’ page 40).
The Society of Friends replied to say that
the resolution met with considerable sympathy
when read at the Meeting for Sufferings (their
EXecutive) held on February 4th, but desired
to say that, as their gatherings are based on
silent worship, they would not be able to adopt
speciﬁc or‘ set prayers for the purpose in view.

47

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

the rearing of young elephants is really a difﬁ—
cult matter. They are so delicate and sensitive
that they would not easily lend themselves to
domestication. There are instances in Ceylon
of captured young wild elephants which, in
the course of their training, refused to go
between the shafts of a cart, preferring death
(by suddenly dropping down dead) to sub—
mission. Such is the sense of self—respect and
dignity of these proud forest—children!
, But once tactfully tamed, ‘ successfully
trained, and kindly treated, they can grow up
to be of immense use to man. For they can
do duty at a temple festival, uproot trees, drag
coconut carts, carry timber, plough the ﬁelds,
and do a host of other things; so much so,
that you cannot but take off your hat to these
young monarchs of the Ceylon wilds.

' S. V. O. SOMANADER.
BATTICALOA, CEYLON.

A rneeemfnll -
trained bah}
e/ep/Jant about
to draw a cart
of eoeonntr at
an ertate.

Photo by
S. V. 0. Somanader

Continued from page 45.

I have read—and raged over—thousands of
such revelations of the physiologists’ torture
chamber. And in no single instance have I
ever read the slightest expression of pity for
these hapless victims of man’s perverted
science.

(To be concluded in our next tune).

 

 




 

' THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

1M arc/1 IA inn], I943

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

j'earez‘aig/z JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 69, Carlton Hill, London, N.W.8.

Mine Mechanisation.

HE President of the Board of. Trade

I stated in the House of Commons in

March, 1942, that 600 new coal—cutters
would probably be installed during 1942 (as
against a pre—war average of not much more
than too), and 1,300 new conveyors (as against
a pre—war average of about 500). If this pro—
gramme is carried out and continued in 1945,
and if special attention is given to coalﬁelds
carrying less than 50 per cent. of their output
by means of conveyors, substantial progress
will have been made. Conveyors obviate the
use of ponies in mines.

In reply to a question by Sir Robert Gower,
M.P., in the House of Commons, on November
19th, 1942, Major Lloyd George, the Minister
of Fuel and Power, said that “ Mechanisation
officers are being appointed to the staff of all
the Regional Controllers of my Department,
and most of the appointments have already
been made.” In reply to a question on
November 24th, I942, the Minister said that
“ particular attention is being paid to the
development of intensive mining methods and
the use of power loading.”

In a speech at Manchester (reported in Tim
Alananerz‘er Guardian, November 28th, 1942),
Major Lloyd George said that a British
technical expert had been to America to study
mining methods there, and that an American
expert was now “ going round the British
coalfields to report upon the extent to which
American methods and machinery might be
applied with advantage in this country.” ’T he
Minister hoped the ﬁrst instalment of American
mining machinery would Shortly be delivered,
and he was anxious to get as much as possible

 

 

so as to prepare for the winter of 1945—4. As
far back as May, 1942, large orders had been
placed for mining machinery in America.

 

Continued from page 44.

In this connection, scientists have often
emphasized the many points of resemblance
in structure between man and the lower
creatures, and these points have been used in
tracing the descent of man himself. Grey
Owl once wrote that the inflections of a
beaver’s voice were much like those of the
human, having a wide" range and being able
to express most of their emotions by them in
a most intelligible manner. It is signiﬁcant
that a stage has been reached when the voice
of a sub—human begins to approach the quali—
ties of our own, for the voice is a tremendous
gift hitherto regarded as our special preroga-
tive.

There is a vast store of knowledge on all
these things, mostly piled away on dusty book
case shelves, or in museums, waiting for men
to recognise therein the image of their younger
brothers, to acknowledge that they passed
through that martyrdom themselves at the
beginning .of their journey to the stars.
Develop from that knOwledge a little humility,
an essential ingredient for clear eyes, and a
little understanding, and one has the beginnings
of a new outlook on the Miracle of Life.

Think deeply on all its wonders. The more
you delve the greater grows your respect,
grows till it becomes a love, with wings to
reach the sublime heights of adoration.

Long before you reach the'end of that
exultant path all contempt for the little lives
will have died.

 

 

The National Equine (and smaller AnimalS) Defence League.
Horse Protection Society—Pit Pony League.

‘ V

Incorporating the Anti-Bearing Rein AssociatiOn.

(Founded by Francis A. Cox, 1909)

An organisation which gives rest and treatment to Horses and their Kind, Clinical Treatment to Smaller
Animals and Humane Release when necessary. .Works incessantly for the substitution of Pit Ponies by

Mechanical Haulage, for Slaughter House and Auction Mart Reform, and Reform in Transport. Seeks to

make compulsory the use of a Total Anaesthetic in many operations now performed without any anaesthetic
whatsoever, and the Total Outlawry of Hunting and Coursing, and Vivisection in all its vile forms, etc., etc.

Literature and all particulars of the League from the Organising Secretary, Alfred Brisco, .
(Tel.: Carlisle 1469.)

Blackwell, Carlisle.

48

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬂ/Inrc/szpril, 1943

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivi'section

Hon. Secretary: MISS IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Oﬂicerz EDINBURGH—10, QUEENSFERRY STREET.

GLASGOW—147, BATH STREET.

1 DEATH FROM VACCINATION.

We take the following from Tbe Vaccination ’

Inqnirer, November—December, 1942 :—

T/Je Siting)! Coznez‘, 5th September, 1942,
published under the headings, “ 50,000 to 1
Chance,” “ Malden Boy’s Death after Vac-
cination,” “ Specialist and War—time Diet,” the
following account of an inquest in the Isle of
Wight on a six-year-old boy (name not given)
who was very well known in Malden, and who
died in the Isle of \Wight.

Vaccinated from the same phial as his
mother, the child was taken to the Isle of
Wight to see his grandparents and there, a
week later, became fretful and then sleepy.
He was treated at ﬁrst for meningitis, but on
specialists being called in, it was found that
he had contracted a very obscure disease of
the brain stated to be caused by the vaccination.

In spite of every care‘he lapsed into a coma
from which he never recovered .....

As a result of the death, the specialist

declared that he would have a question asked,

in the House of Commons as to the advisa—
bility of vaccinating every child to-day without

making a blood test, taking into account the -

present standard of nourishment.
Nora—This specialist seems to know very
little about post—vaccinal encephalitis, although
two Departmental Committees sat to investi—
gate it, and issued fairly lengthy reports.
Cases, noticed since 1922, were occurring
fairly frequently in 1928 and 1929, and by

g 1932 the Ministry of Health had learned of

nearly 200 cases with 100 deaths. Every year
since then new cases have been reported.

The Glasgow Smallpox Outbreak.

The severe limitation of this issue of The
Vaccination Inquirer will not permit a detailed
analysis of Sir Alexander Macgregor’s ofﬁcial
report on the Glasgow smallpox outbreak.
Sir Alexander re-diagnosed 12 of the cases
originally accepted as smallpox. Cases num—
bered 12, 13, 32, 33, 34 and 38 to 42 of the
original list and also two of the three new
cases included in those for which the ages were
given in answer to a questionby Mr. Alfred
Edwards, M.P., are not now regarded as
smallpox. The type of several cases in the
original list was also altered. The ﬁnal list
contains 36 cases, 11 of them described as

49

“ ship’s cases ” and 25 of them as “ city cases.’,’
There were eight deaths.

Eighteen of the cases had been vaccinated in
infancy and one in 1917. Six had been re—
vaccinated prior to the year 1942, two of them
twice. Seven others had been re-vaccinated
before the smallpox rash appeared, one (a
doctor) twice. This doctor’s second re—
vaccination is not indicated in Sir Alexander
Macgregor’s report, but is stated by the
Department of Health for Scotland to have
taken place on 1 1th June, 1942. Ten who were
primarily unvaccinated were vaccinated before
the appearance of the rash, eight of them
successfully. Only six of the 36 cases are
shown to be unvaccinated persons. Thirteen
of the cases had been successfully vaccinated or
revaccinated before the rash appeared. (Case
24, entered in Sir Alexander Macgregor’s list
as revaccinated with. a negative result on 7th
July, was stated by the Surrey County Medical
Ofﬁcer as having been successfully re—
vaccinated on that occasion, one pustule
developing.) _

All the eight fatal cases were adults and
only two are stated to have been unvaccinated.

Not a single veriﬁed case occurred amongst
the unvaccinated children under 10 years of
age, of whom there must have been at least
100,000 in the city at the start of the outbreak.
Sir Alexander Macgregor makes no comment
on this fact. There were only seven school
children amongst the 36 cases, aged 11, 12
(two), 13 (two), 14 and 15 years respectively,
and three of them had been vaccinated in
infancy. One of these three and two of the
unvaccinated school children were successfully
vaccinated, one 12 days, one 9 days and one
1 1 days before the appearance of the smallpox
rash. A

Although the ﬁrst school child to develop
smallpox was ill for three days before she was
sent to hospital and the next school child,
living four miles away from the ﬁrst, had a
smallpox rash for four days before entering
hospital, not a single other case developed
amongst the fellow pupils of these children,
although large numbers of them mustihave
been unvaccinated at the time the cases

developed.

8

 




 

 

I

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Correspondence

RELIGION AND LIFE.

SIR,~—I was interested to read the letter in the
November—December issue of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
from Commander J. L. Cather, entitled “ Religion and
Life.” I am in agreement in very large measure with
the thought expressed, yet I would like to stress that
there is a growing number of people within the Christian
Church as a whole which is seeking to place the claims
and rights of sub-human creatures on the plane to
which they rightly belong. Even from the utterances
of official Church leaders one gathers that new thought
is breaking ground, and while it may be true that little
or no ofﬁcial attention is given to the claims of sub-
human creatures, yet there is reason to believe that it
may develop, especially if those of us who feel deeply
on the necessity of the Christian faith urge it on those
leaders. Yet where I believe that a revolution is
taking place is in important minorities within the ranks.
For many years I have been convinced that Christianity
demanded an absolute obedience to the path of love
which forbids war, and calls us to an active policy of
creative love against evil, and that this is the only ﬁnal
ultimate force. It is not hard, therefore, to see that this
love must extend not only in active opposition to all
that exploits and ravages mankind, but to all that
exploits and ravages sub-human creation, including the
strict abstention from exploitation in the taking of
ﬂesh food. Therefore I ﬁnd that the way of life so
consistently advocated by THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND has a
large measure of support, which is increasing, among
those pledged to the Christian way of absolute love.
This is not surprising as it seems obvious that one
cannot very well refuse to take part in human exploita—
tion, including the refusal to take life, without sooner
or later being forced up against the whole question of
sub-human exploitation. It is true that many have not
yet fully accepted this challenge, but I believe it is
there. I do not suggest that this is the only section
of the Christian Church opposed to animal exploitation,
because my experience with Christian Churches during
Animal Welfare Week suggests that there are a growing
number of Churches concerned. I do, however, write
of one revolution which I am continually seeing taking
place, and which I believe holds great hope for the
future. Yours faithfully,

EDWARD WINDEBANK,
Hon. Sea, R.5.P.C.A. anaI N.C.A.W’.,
Southampton Brant/.225.

ELECTROCUTION VERSUS LETHALLING.

SIR,——In your November—December issue there is a
suggestion that methods of destroying animals are to
be considered by a group of humane people.

,I think it would be a good thing if discussion on this
subject could be conducted in the places where animals
are destroyed and not round an office table. There is
some danger also of theory being allowed to over-
balance fact when discussion takes place in print.

For instance, criticism of electrocution on hearsay is
liable to create unfair prejudice. There are a few good
methods and lethal chambers have their advantages in
certain circumstances and in the hands of certain people
but the only foolproof and instantaneous method I know
is electrocution. I have used every method myself but
the electric kennel is the pre-eminent safeguard against
error of judgment. If there is anything better, it would
be a wonderful achievement to produce it.

Yours faithfully,
CHARLES R. JOHNS,
Secretary.

50

M arc/1A pril, I 9 43

To t/Je Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

SIR,—Permit me please to comment upon the letters
of Miss Lettice Macnaughten and Mr. Hume, with
reference to the different methods of animal destruction.
Having many years’ practical experience and an ever
keen desire to use nothing but the most humane
methods, I do feel Miss Macnaughten renders a great
dis—service in her condemnation of electrocution. My
remarks are based solely upon the electrocution of dogs.
Years ago I visited the N.C.D.L. clinic at Croydon and
witnessed their Electrocutor in use. It was not ﬁtted
with any ammeter, as advocated by Mr. Hume, but I
worked upon the evidence I witnessed with my own
eyes, i.6’., the dogs dropped instantaneously—the same
as if they had been successfully shot. Armed with this
conviction Iurged my Society to adopt the method.
We have used it ever Since and have been instrumental
in getting others to use it.

We use Chloroform Lethal Chambers only for out
cases, for dogs, and for all cats. If a dog is too ill to
move we take the Chloroform Chamber along. Miss
Macnaughten states she is convinced that no more
satisfactory method than the Chloroform Lethal
Chamber could possibly be devised. I do not agree,
because it is not foolproof. Miss Macnaughten rightly
continues, “ plenty of air and the chloroform given very
gradually in order not to worry or alarm the animal.”
That is the whole point—you cannot get many people
to use these chambers in this correct manner—therefore
it is not the best method which could possibly be
devised. The only' way they should be used is as Miss
Macnaughten states, the chloroform very, very slowly
and all the air holes open. Furthermore, the box to be
swilled out after each animal is done and clean paper
placed in the bottom of the chamber.

For dogs, I honestly believe Electrocution to be
THE method. If the electrocutor is kept clean, and
overhauled by an expert, the animal is rendered un—
conscious immediately. If the current is off—or the
electrocutor does not work—~nothing happens to the
dog. I have humanely killed thousands with our
electrocutor and this has been my experience every
time. If minor points are observed—the method is
fool proof—but you cannot make any such claim for
the chloroform lethal chambers, or with shooting.
I have used the humane killer upon many hundreds of
dogs and while it was alright for the dogs, frankly I
could not continue using the method—owing ,to the
terrible fear of a miss and the \ShOCk to one’s own
system—at the sight of the animal falling, and the blood.
Hence the electrocutor came as a blessing because I am
convinced the dog is rendered instantly unconscious,
I repeat, the same as if it had been successfully shot.

I had the bottom taken out of one of our Airedale
si2e chloroform lethal chambers and a false bottom put
in, a bottom we could take out and in as required.
This has proved most useful for dogs which are lying
badly injured and too ill to move. We Simply take the
bottom out of the box and gently place it—the body of
the box—~over the injured animal and chloroform it in
the usual gentle way. When the animal is right under
the anaesthetic, lift the box off the body——replace the
detachable bottom and place the body in for removal.
This may be a good tip for some of your readers.

Yours, etc.,
, ALFRED BRISCO,
Organising Secretary.
The National Equine (and Smaller Animals)
Defence League,
Blackwell, Carlisle.

 

 

 

 

 

 




.Marc/s’Aprz'l, 1943 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 82,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained 0t Otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

Seeks to pronibz't t/Je w'nisection of dogs.

Membership 53. 0d. upwards. '

 

 

 

 

 

CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I
If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join
‘ OLD VICTOR ’ 0
A Short Story (about a prize pit horse). The cats Pl‘OteCthIl
By B. L. COOMBES (Ant/Jar of “ Tbese Poor
Hands”). 2d. post free. League
PRAYER TO GO TO PARADISE, The one society devoted solely to the welfare .
WITH THE DONKEYS 9 Of cats and kittens.
Poem translated from the French of Francis MEMBERSHIP 5 / - PER ANNUM,
Jammes by Vernon Watkins and reprinted - . - . -
from Tire Listener. “ This beautiful prayer.”—— Including the SOClety S ofﬁc1al organ,
Tbe Animals’ Friend. Four copies 2d. post free. “ THE CAT ”
Otber leaflets 0,, Pit Ponies. Associate Membership Subscription 3s. 6d. p.a. 7*
The Pit Ponies’ Protection Society, ‘
69, CARLTON HILL: LONDON: N.W.8 Write for Free Literature toz—The Secretary, 29,

Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

 

Every friend of animals should read I ,

“THIS CRUELTY CALLED SPORT”

’ Written by Air-Commodore CHARLTON,‘C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O., and published by

The LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS

Temporary Address: 2 39 HURST ROAD, SIDCUP, KENT.

 

 

Write for your copy tO—day. Price 7d. post free.
THEN JOIN THE LEAGUE. Membership from 28. 6d. up.

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

c/o 253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD

C/Jairrnan: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD
' at... Publication DEER HUNTING AND SHOOTING ON
‘ EXMOOR 2d.

By M. Chapman

 

 

 

All subscriptions and communications for ﬁre Magazine s/Jonld be addressed “ The Editors, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
32, Queen’s Avenue, Mnswe/l Hz/l, London, N .10.”

 

 




 

 

LOST'DOGS

 

Statement by the
Criminal Investigation Department, Edinburgh

IN answer to enquiries by the SCOTTISH SOCIETY' FOR THE

PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION in May, 1927, regarding the
recovery by the Police of lost dogs, which may have been Stolen and
Sold to Vivisectors’ Laboratories, the following reply was received:
“ The Police have no more right to enter Vivisectional Laboratories
than they have to enter private places when making enquiries for lost
_ dogs, unless of course they are in possession of a Warrant to search.”

THIS MEANS YOUR DOG IS IRRECOVERABLE

if it once enters a Vivisectors’ Laboratory

AGITATE TO GET THE LAW ALTERED

 

HELP OUR CAMPAIGN

 

JOIN THE

SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION

Object: THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION

H072. Secretary: Miss N. IVORY, 2‘0 222/9017; allcommunication:3220/4/51 be addresrm’

Off'm- I EDINBURGH — Io QUEENSFERRY STREET
‘ ' I GLASGOW — — 147 BATH STREET

FUNDS URGENTLY REQUIRED

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey,
for the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.10.

 

 




