SOUTHSIDE G FAYETTE SUN — Atlanta, Ga. - June 11, 1981

Reader’s

  llCDl'llUDD

Reader '8 Forum provides readers with the opportunity to express their opinions on matters of public or per-
sonal interest. We encourage letters from local readers on matters of interest to the community. Letters
should be typed, preferably double-spaced. All letters must be signed and must include an address, (a post
office box number is not sufficient, ) and telephone number, not necessarily for publication. Names may be
withheld for sufficient reason. They are subject to routine editing for grammar, spelling, punctuation,
' length, offensive or libelous'language. Ordinarily, only one letter from any one writer will be published in

any calendar month.

Preference is given to letters of one page (double spaced) or less in length from area residents.

Dogfighting ,’Should Be Felony'

Anyone who reads the
Atlanta newspapers has cer-
tainly read of the inhumane
and brutal dogfighting un-
covered recently in a raid
by the Georgia Bureau of
Investigation and the Hu-
mane Society of the United
States. This brutal exhibi-
tion had women and small
children in attendance as
they watched dogs fight
each other in a ring.

Now it’s brutal enough if
men do this, but they
choose to do it; an animal
has no choice. It is trained
to fight by the greedy owner
who is hoping to make a
fortune in an illegal activ-
ity.

Experts have often stated
that when small children
' are exposed to brutality to
God’s lessor creatures when
they are small, they very
. often turn to lives of crime
as adults.
The legislative committee

is now holding hearings on
this disgraceful situation in
our state, and it is time the

people demanded a stop to

this disgusting situation
once and for all. As our law
now states, it is merely a
misdemeanor to show cru-
elty to animals. The sub-
committee is considering
legislation making dogfight-
ing a felony, and well they
should. I hope every citizen
who has any love for his
fellow creatures, will write
to the subcommittee and
demand that this be written
into the law. They are also
considering making it a
misdemeanor to attend a
dogfight.

Dogfighting is not a one-
time affair; it goes on and

on, and no one can truly
state how many animals are
literally torn apart to die of
their wounds, or nursed
back'to health so once more
they can be torn apart.

Let’s show the rest of the
nation that Georgia is a
civilized state, and that we
are not going to condone
this type of activity within
our borders. Let’s insist
that dogﬁghting be a fel-
ony, and make the penalty
stiff enough to stop this
degrading inhumanity to
man’s best friend.

Connie Yarbrough
ember,

Board of Directors
Atlanta Humane Society

.
vn ‘AHA“~'-b——l

 




PAGE 4 THE NORTH SIDE NEWS, JUNE 25, 1981

_¥

The North Side ‘Newsﬁ

Atlanta’s Only Independent Newspaper
. Established 1929 ,
359 E. Paces Ferry Rd. NE.- PO. Box 11649 -
Atlanta, Georgia 30305
Telephone: 233-1176

MATT G. PERKINS,
MARY PERKINS JON
CORD MIDDLETON

Editor and Publisher
ES, Assistant Publisher
, Advertising Manager

Published Thursday by Metro Newspapers, inc.
2nd Class Postage Paid at Atlanta U.S. P.S. No. 396760
1 YR $8.32 (inc. tax) 2 YRS. $12.48; Single Copy 25'

THE NORTH SIDE NEWS l: not manhunt. for Mum
of photographs and manuscripts ncolvod for publication

 

 

 

 

 

_ We Get Letters

Editor, The North, Side News:

Anyone who reads the Atlanta
newspapers has certainly read of the
inhumane and brutal dogfighting un-
covered recently in a raid by the
Georgia Bureau of Investigation and
the Humane Soceity of the United
States. This brutal exhibition had
women and small children in atten-
dance as they watched dogs fight
each other in the ring.

Now it’s brutal enough if men do
this, but they choose to do it; an
animal has no choice. It is trained to
fight by the greedy owner who is hop-
ing to make a fortune in an illegal ac-
tivity.

Experts have often stated that
when small children are exposed to
brutality to God’s lessor creatures
when they are small, they very often
turn to lives of crime as adults.

The legislative committee is now
holding hearings on this disgraceful
situation in our state, and it is time
the people demanded a stop to this
disgusting situation once and for all.

As our law now states, it is merely
a misdemeanor to show cruelty to
. :9

animals. The Subcommittee is con-
sidering legislation making

dogfighting a felony, and well they
should.

I hope every citizen who has any
love for his fellow creatures, will
write to the subcommittee and de-
mand that this be written into the
law. They are also considering mak-
ing it a misdemeanor to attend a
dogﬁght

Dogfighting is not a one-time af-
fair; it goes on and on, and no one
can truly state how many animals are
literally torn apart to die of their
wounds, or nursed back to health so
once more than can be torn apart.

Let’s show the rest of the nation
that Georgia is a civilized state, and
that we are not going to condone this
type of activity within our borders.
Let’s insist that dogfighting be a
felony and make the penalty stiff
enough to stop this degrading in-
humanity to man’s best friend.

Sincerely,

Connie Yarbrough

Member, Board of Directors-Atlanta
Humane Society

 

 




LI'ReIigious fanatic

.. rjiik'l‘he Editors: What frightens us about
religious atics is not that they trust in

will ultimately
fanatic’s faith

prevail. But the religi
rests, not in God, but in
‘ over others.
' “In orderto obey the First

iriént, I prefer to leave that r

GOd alone, and further feel that if .

one 'else controls my life, I n

own it, and someone else -— in an impor-
tant sense -— has taken my life.
Hostility to women's rights is not sur-
prising. because there are those who fear
that the only way to hold women is to
control them within a prison of forced
dependency. Constant vulnerability to
pregnancy as well as deprivation of
" equal rights will certainly keep women
*‘dependent
‘_ ..When insecure men (who) base their
self-esteem on being able to dominate
women are joined by equally insecure
women who hold the erroneous view that

having equal rights 1 deprive them of

b they have be-
er they create a
rule of fear that is po rful indeed.

But love is still the eater power. and,

ot only do we be-

experience truth: the e are loved, not
because we are n ed, but we are
needed. because we a

President, Peep
ERA in Georgia
Atlanta

Stop the brutality

The Editors: Anyone who reads The
Atlanta Journal-Constitution has cer-
tainly read of the inhumane and brutal
dogfighting uncovered recently in a raid
by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation
and the Humane Society of the United
States. This brutal exhibition had women
and small children in attendance as they
watched dogs fight each other in a ring.

Now it's brutal enough if men do this.

but they choose to do it; an animal has
no choice. It is trained to fight by the
greedy owner who is hoping to make a
fortune in an illegal activity.

EXperts have often stated that when
small children are exposed to brutality
to God's lesser creatures when they are
small, they very often turn to lives of
crime as adults.

The legislative committee is now hold-
ing hearings on this disgraceful situation
in our state. and it is time the people de-
manded a st0p to this disgusting situa-
tion once and for all. As our law now
states, it is merely a misdemeanor to
show cruelty to animals. The subcommit-

tee is considering legislation making 23
dogfighting a felony and well they ‘

should. I h0pe every citizen who has any
love for his fellow creatures ~will write
to the subcommittee and demand that
this be written into the law. They are
also considering making it a misde—
meanor to attend a dogfight.

Dogfighting is not a one-time affair: it
goes on and on. and no one can truly
state how many animals are literally

5' faith is based 'on having c

torn apart to die of their wounds or
nursed back to health so once more they
can be torn apart.

Let’s show the rest of the nation that .

Georgia is a civilized state and that we
are not going to condone this type of ac-
tivity within our borders. Let’s insist that
dogfighting be a felony, and make the
penalty stiff enough to stop this degrad-
ing inhumanity to man‘s best friend.

CONNIE YARBROUGH

Member, Board of Directors

Atlanta Humane Society

Atlanta

 

\OllillllSNOC) GNV Imnnﬁ BluIﬂIV 3113

l 'aNnr'

 

AVONOS

t861 v

 




Action  
Initiated
Against
Dogfights

By Fran Hesser

Constitution Staff Writer

Creation of a subcommittee of the
state House of Representatives to inves-
tigate dogfighting was announced Mon-

' day by state Rep. Howard Rainey, chair-
.man of the House Game, Fish and
Recreation Committee.

. “The purpose of the subcommittee
will be to see what needs to be done to
the Georgia law so that this type of
crime and inhumane activity cannot
thrive in our state,” said Rainey, D-Cor-
'dele.

, ‘The subcommittee was created after
i an incident on March 22 when more than
a hundred fans were found cheering the
gambling “sport” on a farm in Heph-
zibah, a suburb of Augusta, during a raid
by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation
'and local law-enforcement officials.
' Eighteen people were arrested on
charges including cruelty to animals,
gambling, carrying a concealed weapon
and possession of marijuana, cocaine and
untaxed liquor or beer.

Felony charges against seven of the
alleged participants were reduced to
misdemeanor charges in April to protect
the identity of GBl informants who had
been in the crowd.
~ Tom McGreevy, director of the GBI’s
investigations division, said the inform-
ants would have had to testify at a
felony trial and doing so might have
endangered their lives.

McGreevy said that most of the cases
will probably be settled by bond forfei-
ture. Neither McGreevy nor Richmond
County authorities contacted Monday
"knew the amounts of the misdemeanor
gbonds. '

Five of the 10 dogs seized as evidence
had to be put to death because they were
so badly injured, McGreevy said. The
GBI will ask Richmond County author-
ities to order the destruction of the other
five “fighting machines” when all the

«cases have been disposed of.

 

THE ATLANTA CONSTITUTION, T ues., May 12, 1981 ,,

Rainey said the subcommittee w'

y . ill t

to determine how widespread dogfight-t):
mg is in Georgia and what needs to be

, done to strengthen the state law regard-

. _ ing the activity.

“One of the methods used to '
these dogs for fighting is to placeutavig
dogs in 'a retaining area, commonly
known as a ‘plt,’ facing each other. The
trainer then drops in a live kitten be-
tween the two dogs so that the dogs will
fight over the kitten,” Rainey explained.

He said the subcommittee will also
take a look-at other illegal activities as-
socrated With fighting pit bulldogs in
Georgia. The subcommittee will hear
testimony from law-enforcement agen-

322:3?“ and federal officials and Hu-
g 1e . .
will also be lyelpjersonnel. Pubhc hearmgs
.' ; Committee members will in
Reps. Rainey; Ralph Twiggs, 01113:?

5%; Bob Argo, D-Ath ' '
.;}AItlanta; Bill Hast ens, Max Dav1s, R-
ays, D-St. Elmo; Lundsford Mood
:Baxley, James Moore, D-Douglasy’gd
fMullinax, D-LaGrange; Clinton Oliver D-
_ Glenvxlle; and Bob Peters, D-Ringgold’.

. D—Canton; Forest

I
l
I

 

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King.AIthur Court, N. E.
Amlanta, Ga. 30345

May 11, 1981

Honorable James watt
Secretary of the Interior
Department of the interior
washington, D. C. 20240

Dear Mr. watt:

This is a very definite vote AGAINST any change re the-use of that vicious and
non—selective poison.known as 1080, regardless of what the cattlemen and the
sheepmen want. I think the American public let it be known very strongly and
very definitely some years ago that they are completely and utterly opposed to
the use of this deadly poison. I think they let it be known to Secretary Andrus
that they opposed utterly and completely the senseless destruction of our
predators on_CXE{PUBLIC LANDS.

'

Now I know the ranchers want to return to'anything which will eliminate all
predators from any competition with their cattle and their sheep, and if they
state otherwise, they are simply lying in their teeth. Past records bear this
out only too well. BUT - and this is an important BUT — this is land which be-
long to all America, not to the ranchers, and why you, or any other one man in
Washington should be given the power to change this rule is something I do not
understand. We are supposed to have a country of and by the peOple, and not of
and by one Department or one individual in D. C.

There‘s no doubt that coyotes attack sheep, but from.what I have read, during the
'705, coyotes killed no more than 2.6% of the annual lamb crop. But there are
far too many other methods of protecting sheep and cattle from coyotes. Let, the
rancher spend some of his money on these methods, and not the taxpayers} money

on controlling these animals. The rancher is grazing his animals on PUBLIC LAND
at pitifully low charges PER ANIMAL, PER MONTH. The ban on 1080 was initiated

by one Republican administration and continued through‘another. For you and the
Reagan Administration to roll back nearly 10 years of progress is unwise, unneces-
sary and unsupportable by any analysis of the data.

Severalsheepmenznxnnmlthe country have stated publicly that llamas are a good
protector of sﬁqux that donkeys also guard against predators, and there is the
sheep dog, the Komondor. Any, or all of these alternatives would be far better
than the introduction of vicious poisons which do not select the predator they
kill, and which continue to kill as other predators feed on the body of the
original predator killed by these poisons. No, we don't need to go back to
eradicating our predators when there are other methods of controlling them.

Talk to Hope Ryden, naturalist, who has spent so many years studying the

predators; listen to experts on predators, instead of the complaining rancher.
The predators have a right to live just as much as the food animals grazing on
the predator's land. BUT — do not change the present laws with re the use of

Poisons. M/ll/lfllfzg /ﬂ{%/¢(Z/’ K

arbrough)

cc: Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly, Elliott B. Levitas, G. Williaﬁ Whitehurst

 




aﬁWﬂ/f/MM 5: 7 ’ f /

Sheep farmers use gospel music
to keep coyotes out of the flcks

The Baltimore Sun

SAN FRANCISCO- Hymn singing
makes coyotes nervous, which ex-
plains why sheep farmers in North-
ern California are tucking recordings

'of gospel music in the midst of their .

flocks.

. A" machine called the “electronic
shepherd” is the latest effort by
ranchers to protect their sheep from
the multimilliomdollar depredations
that kill thousands of sheep and lamb
annually. William Coyle, an instruc-
tor at the College of the Redwoods in
Eureka, Calif, who developed the de
vice, said coyotes were upset by any-
thing that reminded them of man.

' “But they’re smart,” he said. “If
the machine is left on for long peri-
ods they get used to it and decide it’s
Safe, and there go the sheep. ” He said
there .had been experiments with
taped recordings of dogs howling, but
the coyotes seemed” to adapt to that
faster than to gospel music.

The importaWing, he said, was
to make thesiiound unpredictable,
which would if was haped, throw the
coyote off guard. Coyle said sheep
ranchers across the West were

A
m

‘ coyotes,

desperate enough to try anything in
their losing battle with coyotes.

The animals won a major battle
nine years ago when Richard Nixon
outlawed the poison 1080 for use in
predator control. The presidential ac-
tion was based on charges that the
poison also was afflicting other anie~

.mals and birds, and the decision

pleased environmentalists as much as
it enraged farmers.

Ranchers were left with guns or

traps as a means of killing the
but they contended those
weapons had little impact on a
coyote population that, agricultural
officials estimated, increased by
more than 12 percent last year in

California, where there may be as
. many as 800,000 of the animals

roaming the state.

One problem is the adapability and
resilience of the coyote which, ac-
cording to one expert, compensates
for a reduction in its p0pulation by
having larger litters. Scott Sway, a
wolf expert in Eureka, suggested re-
cently that trapping programs pro-
vided by the state do no more than
weed out the unwary among the

coyotes and leave the more intelli-
gent animals. And nobody suggests
that coyotes are not intelligent.

As Sway put it, the state trapping
had provided a selective breeding
program that had helped produce

'what he called a coyote super-race.

The animals, once found mostly in
MexiCo, are now proliferating all
over North America, appearing even
in city suburbs, and gobbling up

everything from frogs to rats and

sheep.
The ranchers’ solution is to make

. another appeal for the restoration of

permissiOn to poison the pests, and

. they are hOpeful that President Rea-

gan, as a fellow Westerner, may be
more sympathetic than previous chief
executives.

However, Coyle, who has spent a
lot of time trying to figure out ways
to fool a coyote, said the breed had
become so hardy that it could be
impossible to eradicate.

“In the end, after man has become
extinct,” he said, “it’s going to be
cockroaches, dandelions - and
coyotes.” ,

 

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King.Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

April 19, 1981

HOnorable Alexander Haig
Secretary ~ ,

U. S. State Department
wash., D. C. 20525 _

Dear Mr. Secretary:
A short letter to ask that the U. S. maintain leadership

in protecting whales, parrots, and other species in truUble
wherever they may be.

The United States has never entered a reservation to the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Fauna and Flora, and I urge that you do not do so now.

If we do this, it will only endurage other nations to dis—
regard this Treaty and the protection it provides.

The world is finally becoming conscious of the rights of
annuals, and their right to be protected and not exploited
by mankind simply because of the dollar bill.

This Treaty should stand as is without any exceptions, re-
gardless of pressures being applied by vested intresfs,

among which are the pet dealers around the world. It is

long past time when exotic animals are taken from their own
habitats to sate the jaded appetites of peOple who don't give
a damn about them, but want them as status symbols.

Sincerely,
Oﬂs.J.C.Ym$nmgﬂ

cc: Henorable Sam.NUnn,IMack.Mattingly, Elliott B. Levitas,
G. William.Whitehurst -

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

April 18, 1981

Honorable Malcolm Baldridge
Secretary of Commerce '
Department of Commerce-Room 5422
14th {a} Constitution, N. W.
Wash., D. C. 20030

Dear Mr . Baldridge :

This letter is to urge the Commerce Department to change its position
to a three-year reauthorization of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of
1972, despite the pressure of self- interest groups. Everyone interested
in this Act knows full well that Senator Stevens of Alaska is not inter-
ested in the welfare of animals, in his state or anywhere else.

But I believe the overwhelming majority of the American people would
prefer to see that our marine mammals are given the protection they
deserve, and I am sure they do not' want any weakening amendments at—
tached to this act. It is my firm belief it should be reauthorized
for three years - not one as many selfish individuals want.

The American people strongly supported the Act when it was first pre-
‘ sented to Congress in 1972, and I don't think they are going to stand
for any hanky-panky with it by those whose only interest is the dollar
bill.

Fortunately, more and more Americans are finally realizing that :we
share this planet with a lot of different creatures, and they also
have some rights. It is time that all government departments started
listening to the majority of the people.

So, once again I urge your support of a three—year reauthorizitbn for
the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) J. C. Yarbrogh
cc: Honorable Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly, Elliott B. Levitas, G. William
Whitehurst

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King.Arthur Court, N. E.
.Atlanta, Ga. 30345

April 18, 1981

Office of the Scientific Authority
U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Mbsh., D. C. 20240,

Gentlemen:

This letter is in full support of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora, without any exvceptions or reserva-
tions, despite the pressures of self—interest groups.

It is my understanding the U. S. has never entered a
reservation to this Treaty, and if we do so now, it
will only lead to other nations disregarding same.

I have already written to the Secretary of State on
this matter, and would like this letter entered in
the records as urging the Fish 8 Wildlife Service to
stand firm on this matter.

Sincerely,

(Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N; E.
.Atlanta, Ga. 30345

April 18, 1981

Honorable Walter Jones, Chairman
Merchant Marine G Fisheries Committee
House of Representatives

Wash., D. C. 20515

Dear Congressman Jones :

This letter is to ask for your full support of a three-
year reauthorization of the Marine Mammal Protection Act
of 1972.

I believe the records will show how successful this Act
has been over the years in protecting our marine mammals,
and nothing should be done to weaken the Act as it now
stands.

I am fully aware of the vested interests who are concerned
about nothing but the dollar bill, but the public is be-
coming more and more aware of the value of our marine
mammals, and I am fully convinced they want this ACt to
stand as is. They proved that when the Act was first in-
troduced in 1972, by their overwhelming support for it.

Sincerely ,

(Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough)

cc: Honorable Elliott B. Levitas, G. William Whitehurst

 




   
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
    
  
  
 

Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough.
3149 King Arthur Court, h. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

April 18 , 1981

Honorable David Stockman, Director
Office‘— of Management and Budget

Old Executive Office Bldg. - Room 252
Wash., D. C. 20503

Dear Mr . Stockman:

This letter is to urge that your department supply sufficient
funds to enforce the Marine Mammal Protection Act. '

I am certainly cognizant of the fact thatthe government wastes
millions of dollars a year with harebrained'ideas some people
come up with; I have only to read the National Enquirer each week
to read about them, and they are disugraceful. That our govern-
ment is so callous and indifferent to the money being wasted is
difficult to believe. Yet every week the Enquirer reportsthis
waste. I try to cut out these stories and send them to my two
Senators and representative, but I seldom hear that our Congress
is doing anything to stop this waste, nor do I hear too fre-
quently that there seems to be any interest in doing so.

 

But - let it come to furnishing money to help the creatures who
share this planet with us, and then we are called abunch of "do-
gooders", "bambi-lovers", etc., etc. Well, these names don’t
hurt me a bit. What does hurt me is the dreadful waste of the
taxpayers' money by a government which doesn't seem to give a
damn about what the people want.

 

Great strides have been made to protect our marine mammals with
the passage of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, and I
don't want to see anything done to undermine this Act, nor to
have any weakening amendments attached to it by vested interests
who have no interest in anythirg but the dollar bill.

 
   
   

Please have the courtesy to answer this letter.

  
 

Sincerely ,

 
 
 
   

 
    

(Mrs.) J. C. Yarbrough
cc: Honorable Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly, Elliott B. Levitas,
G. William Whitehurst

 
   




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
.Atlanta, Ga. 30345

April 19, 1981

Honorable Bob Packwood , Chairman.

Commerce, Science G Transportation Committee
Senate Office Bldg.

Wash., D. C. 20510

Dear Senator Packweod: ‘

This letter is in full support of a three-year reauthorization
of the Marine Mammal Protection ACt of 1972.

It is my earnest hope that this Act will be reauthorized without

any weakening amendments being sought by those interested only in
the dollar bill.

. . W .
I believe the records w1ll show me truly successful this Act
has been over the years in protecting our marine mammals, and
nothing should be done to weaken it.

It is impossible f cr me to write to every member of your committee,
so I hope this letter is sufficient to urg; their support of a 3—
‘ year reauthorization.

Thank you.

Sincerely ,

(Mrs.) J. C. Yarbrough

P.S. By c0py of this letter, I am asking my own two Senators,
Nunn and Mattingly to pledge support for a three—year reauthori-
zation of this fine and workable Act.

 




“i

t.\aanaaa._

“31“”
k .

t "7
‘.\

v

1
Q Q

\

j

%’/7? 3/

W

 

 

Per-Lahotnna Swindter

Emily Hartman, Daughter of Zoo society’s Mary Hartman

Why Not Pick A Pet At The Zoo?

With Easter just three days hence,
doting parents may be tempted to purchase
the traditional cunning critters - ducks,
chickens, rabbits and the like — for their
own cunning offspring. Unfortunately, it
often happens that little thought goes into
the proper care and feeding of such crea-
tures, whose adoptive families may find
their darling baby animals blossoming into
obstreperous adults. Many well-meaning
people end up mistreating or causing the
death of these Easter lagniappes.

A far more humane and helpful ap-
proach is to adapt an animal at the Atlanta

Zoo, according-to Atlanta Zoo Society presi-
dent Jane Shivers. Creatures of every size
and description are available for adoption,
Shivers says; a $35 contribution to the AZS
will garner the pleasures of “parenting” a
guinea pig or duck for an entire year.
Adoptive parents receive an official certifi-
cate and a bumper sticker declaring,
“There’s a Wild Animal in My Family,”
and have their names inscribed on a plaque
near the animal’s enclosure, besides. For
information, call the AZS office at 624-
1235. ‘ ~'
e—Michelle Green

 

a

 

 

 




Observer

News. Personal Reflections, Trivia

Edited by James D. Scott

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project Deep-Freeze
A Silva lining in Newfoundland

 

A mind-control session devoted to
communicating with seals 1,500 miles
away off the Newfoundland coast
seemed an ideal way to spend the
evening. After all, this was a first: the
National Institute For Humane Animal
Policy — a small, animal-protection
group based in Cincinnati — had asked
five Silva mind-control experts to stop
the killing of baby harp seals by
beaming mental energy to mother seals:
“Give birth early!” their brain waves
shouted. “Don’t let the seal hunters kill
your young!”

The session got underway at 7:30
p.m., February 9th —- a month before
the annual hunt —— in the living room of
one of the Silva member’s Springdale
apartment. I took a seat on the couch
and made a quick survey of my
surroundings. Pretty standard stuff:
bookshelves, television, stereo, coffee
table, a picture of a baby harp seal on
the wall opposite me, and five psychics
engaged in deep thought.

During a break in the thinking,
Mayree Braun, a Silva instructor, told
me they get requests like this all the
time. A few years ago, she said, NASA
asked them to predict where Skylab

would fall — and, if they could, make it

land someplace safe. Mayree’s students
named it Project Chicken Little and sent
mental missives to the spacecraft for
weeks, successfully encouraging it to
land in the Australian outback.

“It’s just a matter of getting your
mental Bunsen burner going,” Mayree
said. “I just close my eyes and I see this
big fat mother seal. Lately, I’ve been
telling her to have a perfectly ordinary
early delivery in a nice, safe place.
Farther to the north would help. My
students are sending sympathy for fur-
bearing animals to the Canadian
legislators, and beaming weather
changes.”

The important thing to remember,
Mayree added, is to think only good
thoughts. It wouldn’t do any good to
ask for fog to hamper the seal hunters,
for instance, if that would put them in
danger. “I’m beaming safety to the
sealers, too,” Mayree said. —JDS

J)
&
)
A
,—
A
V
._,
f/

Book Of Lists

Part 1: Six things to
be sure to do before an
IRS home audit

 

1. Leave copies of Home Canning
and How To Survive 0n $10 A Mont
on the coffee table.

2. Throw a few pawnshop tick
with the receipts and check stub

3. Park the Mercedes next

4. Pray frequently.

5. Clip the alligators o
shirts. If they protest, l
alligators with Ameri '
it buttons.

6. Greet the I
with fourteen

agent at the door
e neighbors’ kids.

ook Of Lists

Part 11: Four stories from the
IRS that prove tax people have

-a sense of humor, too

 

1. An unusual claim for a casualty
loss came into the IRS last year, with a
lengthy explanation attached. The
taxpayer wrote that he had tried to
remove a tree stump from his yard by
throwing a stick of dynamite at it.
Before it exploded, however, his dog
retrieved the dynamite and attempted to
return it to him, now running full speed
away from the stump — and the dog.
Fort nately, the dog tired and dropped

ynamite under his ’

. e IRS allowed the claim,
e it met its criterion: the loss was
en, unusual and due to an
unexpected circumstance.

2. A woman, mistaking the IRS for
her local drycleaner with a similar phone
number, called to ask how to remove
bubblegum from a bedspread. The IRS
agent replied, “Madame, we have often
been accused of taking people to the
cleaners, but we are not they.”

3. An old man called the local IRS
last year to ask if he could claim his loss
of memory as a casualty loss. He
couldn’t.

Cincinnati APRIL 1981 11

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

April 18, 1981

Honorable James Watt .
Secretary of the Interior

U.S. Dept. of Interior-Room.6151
18th 6 C Sts., N. W.‘

wash., D. C. 20240.

Dear Secretary watts:

This letter is in support of the three-year reauthorization of the
Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, with NO WEAKENING AMENDMENTS
by vested interests who have no respect nor feeling for anything
but the dollar bill.

Now I have as healthy a liking and respect for the dollar bill as
any other.American, but fortunately, it does not take the place of
everything in my life. And.when I read in the National Enquirer
EVERY WEEK of the scandalous waste of the taxpayers' money with
some of the harebrained ideas mentioned, I literally get sick at my
stomach when I read of the fight by vested interests when there is
any mention of putting aside money to help other creatures who also
‘share this planet.

an is not God - although many of them think they are. we owe it
to our fellow creatures to see that their rights are also observed.
There is plenty of money in our Treasury to give these animals the
protection they deserve IF - these dreadful wastes of money were
stopped. Some of these stories are unbelievable, and it makes one
wonder what kind of men.we have in our government who would agree
to providing funds for most of these ideas. I make it a point to
send copies of these stories to my two Seniors and Congressman,
but I seldom hear that anything is being done to stOp the waste.

(,2 412543442 L;
AnédéuiunrrfUnds accrue to the U.S. Treasury from successful action
against wildlife crimes, and I urge that the Marine Mammal Protection

Act of 1972 be reauthorized fer three years.

Sincerely,
‘(Mrs.) J. C. Yarbrough

cc: Henorable Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly, Elliott B. Levitas, G.
'William.Whitehurst

 




.‘u lug»; 1“. ‘W-w- .

'-‘ “.A‘v:“‘-J‘.‘—-v_ﬂ¥‘ (‘4‘ A ~

30 THE BOSTON GLOBE SATURDAY, APRIL 18. 19:51

 

 

 

 

..'...._.......-_. c

~ ,_3 up. H.d-—a-¢-.c~d‘-, -— :I‘.-’v"- ‘~
I

 

‘v’mv—

 

TONY CHAMBERLAIN

 

You are having a really fine
run on a spring day. It is cool,
bright, and you’re going well
along a back road that winds be-
tween a maroon cranberry bog
on one side and a high sandy
bluff on the other.

It is one of those crisp shim-
mering days when your body
seems to reSpond sympatheti-
cally to the whole broad world,
and your only regret is that you
are not a child anymore with
the ability to run and run for-
ever. When . . . something is
wrong. You do not hear or see
anything, but, yes, something is
very wrong. .

By some instinct you look
over your shoulder to see, six
feet away, a large orange dog in
a noiseless crouch, teeth gleam-
ing, eyes narrowed to evil slits.
It is looking at your thigh with a

look that lets you know the real '

meaning of nakedness.
A series of emotions stabs

. through you with a decided ef-

fect on your anatomy. For an-
.endless moment you struggle to
recover, as you might struggle to
get the first breath after jump-
ing into unexpectedly icy water.
Any dog that comes up like that,

j; silent and direct, is not toying
“”‘Iwith you. He wants it all.

“Hi pup. Hi pup. Good pup,"

3 "Il' you stammer.

LA I! .
Errrrrrrrrgh, it answers,
still approaching. ‘

”'—

 

At that point, the stunning
fear breaks, turns to anger. Near
your foot is a large oval rock,
and seeing you snatch it up, he
hesitates. Then, armed with
your rock, because there is real-
ly nothing else to do, and be-
cause there is a good deal of hu-
miliation setting in, you let out
an absurd yell and run at the
dog.

Most dogs are cowards at the
core, and this one is no excep-
tion. It scampers away. You
take a windup step and let the
rock ﬂy with a sidearm whip,
and when the dog is about at
the far side of the road, it
catches him solidly on the ﬂank.
A whump, a yelp, and then he is
galloping Qtf across the bog, with
his tail tucked. “

In many years of playing foot-
ball, baseball, tennis, this is the
most satisfying single moment
in your entire athletic lye.

E]

In our renewal of the running

season, that memory has caused .

me to reﬂect a good deal about
dogs and to bring a modest ques-
tion before you this morning:
Why? That is, why should there
be dogs in the first place? If we do
our best to keep'rats, rattle—
snakes, jellyfish and cockroaches
as far from our midst as we can
get them, why do we endure in

l
L.

M

our civilization this unrestrained
population of pack scavengers?

To be sure, there are hunting
dogs, Seeing Eye dogs, dogs
trained for riot control, drug de-
tection, and even to dress up and
ride tricycles around in a ring. I
have no problems with such dogs
that spend lives in the service of
humankind. Fine, lsay. Let them
stay.

I even know a junkyard dog up ,

in Veazie, Maine, who spent his

life lurking among the shadows of .

rusting autgmobile hulks. You
would never catch him chasing a
runner unless, of course, that
runner was trying to beat it out of
the yard with a shift knob lifted
off a '57 Chevy. Then there would
be considerable trouble afoot. so
to speak. As frightful and re-
morseless as this Veazie dog may
have been, he nevertheless spent
his productive years in worth-
while service. Let him stay, too, I
say. '

No, it is those fat. overcivilfzed,
idle dogs that bother me. Dogs
that are not occupied even with
the responsibility of feeding them-
selves, and so have the leisure to
make sport out of human beings
on public thoroughfares. Outra-
geous! If you consider that any
such dog with nothing better to
do than harass joggers and other
pedestrians has no real reason to
be mobile, then you will not find
the following proposal especially
outlandish.

/ N
;

 

A modest proposal '
about doggone dogs

It’s guaranteed to give runners a leg up on. road ipests

Under my plan, dogs that can-
not qualify for working papers
shall be brought into one of sever-
al state-funded clinics and there
undergo a painless operation to
have the right foreleg detached at
the shoulder. The plan, I think, is
a humane one. Compared to re—
straining a dog by leash or cage,
thereby frustrating its natural

movement, the removal of a sin-_

gle foreleg will leave the dog with
total mobility within the scope of
natural limitations to which it
will grow very quickly accus-
tomed.

Pups not being raised for gain-
ful service will be altered so early

in life that they will never miss a -

fourth leg and not suffer from the
idea that things might have been
different. Three—legged dogs will,
in fact, be in such a majority, that
the few four~legged 0r working
dogs they happen to encounter
will seem, rather than the advan-
taged of the species, freaks of na—
ture.

V

Now, lest you think of this as
same thoughtless impulse con-
ceived in anger, hang in‘just a lit-
tle longer. l have specified that
the right, foreleg be removed out
of total consideration for the dogs
themselves, the majority of which
are incurable car Chasers. If the

three-legged dog stumbles, as it

might. while in pursuit, and its
left foreleg were removed, then it

‘would likely roll under the car's

wheels. But with the right leg re-
moved. it will roll harmlessly Out
to the side of the road. Likewise, it
would be absolutely cruel to re-
move either hind leg from the do
leaving the poor creature’s abilit
to scratch ﬂeas impaired by 50
percent. ' -
Moreover, I have seen a model

m

for my idea in the form of a black

lab that lived just down the street.

m "5 y°uth this Spirited animal

had apparently suffered a disad?

vantageous meeting with a mill: '

ing machine and yet lived out its

remaining years lying on a front .:

lawn. contented as a cow.

But the impulse to chase never; f v, i,
left it. It would see me coming-on 3

my morning run. push itself'np.‘
and, snorting and growling, come
wobbling after me in what may."

have looked like an unwieldy gait. f L
Yetits three strong legs propelled. ’ ‘
it quite satisfactorily. Satisfactory.

for me, anyway, because by the

time the lab reached the roads'ldei j

I had long passed. '

And you can believe that when; 5;; i
the dogs of this world cannot . j
catch me when i run, everyone .is‘ ;

,,,,,,

safe.

Eli-18
my
3 h.
Kill]. ‘1‘
in f!

w

thin“

 




 

Slaughter of Dolphins by Japanese:
The View From the Fishing Boats

By Sam Jameson
Los Angeles Times Service
ATSUMOTO, Japan — With the peaceful
waters of its natural harbor dotted with
tiny fishing boats, this town of 9,034 people
seems an unlikely spot for an international
controversy.

The fishermen of Katsumoto, on the island
of Iki, share a quiet existence with the shop-
keepers in the towns and the farmers who raise
rice, tobacco and garlic in the valleys and on
the terraced hillsides. But foreign environmen-
talists view the island’s 2,798 fishermen as
criminals, for it was here that they were filmed
in 1978 bludgeoning to death about 1,000 dol-
phins they had herded into the harbor.

The fishermen say they acted only to protect
their livelihoods because the dolphins were
eating or scaring away the fish. Nevertheless,
the television film and newspaper photographs
stirred protest worldwide.

The killing of dolphins -- 800 of them in
1977, 1,200 in 1978, 1,900 in 1979, 2,100 in
1980, and about 120 so far this year —contin-
ues, with the environmentalists pressing their
campaign. And the islanders are increasingly

angry.
Unpolluted Place

There must be few spots in Japan as densely
populated as Iki -— 777 eople per square mile
— and where the natura environment is better

preserved. So the charges that the fishermen '

are committing a crime against nature when
they kill the dolphins strike an odd note
among the inhabitants of this island 16 miles
off the northwest coast of Kyushu, one of Ja-
pan’s four main islands.

Unlike on the main islands, Iki has not a
single billboard, and there is no pollution.
There are two nightclubs and a bowling alley,
all in the town of Gonoura. But it has no mov-
ie theater, and establishments filled with pa-
chinko machines, a kind of vertical pinball ma-
chine, provide most of the evening excitement.

Throughout the years, local people say, most
of Iki’s troubles have been caused by outsiders.

Last year the children in a Katsumoto junior
high school wrote and staged a play about how
their fathers, to protect their livelihood, round-
ed up 450 dolphins in an inlet, only to have an
American, Dexter Cate, a member of several
environmental groups, cut the nets and allow
about 250 dolphins to escape.

1n the play, Mr. Cate rs beaten up by the
fishermen -- an event that in reality was pre-
vented only by the intervention of Kiyoshi
Obata, managing director of the Katsumoto
Fishermen’s Cooperative.

Mr. Cate was arrested after cutting the
fishermen’s nets on Feb. 29, 1980. Convicted
of obstructing business, he was sentenced last
May 30 to a prison term of six months, which
the court then suspended.

“Common Reséurce’

Mr. Obata said: “Ifl were a member of an
animal-lovers club and went to the United
States and started cutting fences on a cattle
ranch, what do you think Americans would do
to me? I would probably be killed.”

Katsumoto’s deputy mayor, Makoto Mo-
tomizu, said: “The peo 1e who oppose killing
of the dolphins live in ar-off countries. Many
of them are scholars or wealthy people. I can’t
understand how they can ignore the situation
3f the people here on the scene. We resent

at. ~

“Dolphins are a common resource of man-
kind. The fishermen aren’t killing them be-.
cause they like to. If the environmental groups
were wiﬂmg to contribute, say, $500 a month
to compensate the fishermen for their losses,
or come here to disperse the dolphins, that
would be fine. But they just criticize. We don’t
understand that.”

Mr. Obata said dolphins “may look cute
when they are swimming around in an aquari-
um, but when they congregate 'in the sea in

\

gangs of thousands or even tens of thousands,
they are fearful.” , .

Iki fishermen have always lived with the do]-
hins, he said, but in recent years have been
orced to protect their fishing grounds. The

reasons are a perceived increase in the dolphin
population and the skyrocketing costs of fuel.

Before the oil crisis of 1973, Mr. Obata said,
lki’s fishermen could afford to go out for 12
hours and come back empty-handed when dol-
phins converged on the fishing grounds. But
things are more difficult now, he declared.

The price of fuel is nearly seven times what
it was in 1973, but the prices fishermen receive
for the yellowtail they catch have not kept
pace. Besides, the annual catch of yellowtail in
the last four years has diminished by about
500 tons, to between 1,400 tons and 1,500 tons,
said Megumu Takahira, head of the fisheries
section of the prefectural branch office on lki
island.

The dolphins, fishermen say, scare away the
yellowtail and squid that bring in 48 percent of
their gross revenue, sometimes even eating the
catch right off the fishing lines.

According to Mr. Obata, dolphins are
rounded up only between January and April
because that is the only time that Iki fishermen
are fishing in the daytime for yellowtail.

“When the fishermen see that no one is

catching any fish because of a gathering of dol- .

phins, they stage a round-up,” he said, It is

Killed dolphin shown being lifted into shredding machine in Katsumoto.

W
#WW ‘

done by herding dolphins ahead of a half-cir-
cle of ships, without nets. Iki fishermen .
learned the technique in 1977 from fishermen .
elsewhere in Japan.

At other times of the year, Mr. Obata said, .
the boats are dispersed, searching for other
kinds of fish, or they are fishing for yellowtail
and squid at night, and nothing can be done,
about the dolphins then.

No Natural Enemies

He said that if the dolphins did not intrude
in the fishing grounds, there would be no
round-ups, and that if they were being threat- .
ened with extinction they would cause no .-
problem and the fishermen could leave them :
alone. -
But because they have been left unharmed '
until recent years and have no natural enermes
in these waters, Mr. Obata asserted, the d01- _.
phins have multiplied, while the yellowtail and 1
squid have dwindled.

An island Dolphins Countermeasures Coun— .;
cil, formed by the island’s five fishermen’s co-
operatives, receives 10,000 yen (about $50) for
each dolphin the fishermen kill, according to :
Mr. Takahira, the fisheries official. ,
‘ He said the council used the payments, .
which began in 1978, to pay for the cost_ of
disposing of the dolphins. Usually the subsrdy
is not enough to cover even those costs, Mr.
Takahira said.

4‘. .- M
United Press harm

ate/m

 




The second time aroUnd no better for ‘He

The Associated Press . >

HOLLYWOOD . - The new, trimmed
version of Michael Cimino’s $36 million
“Heaven’s Gate” is faring no better with

the public than the film dig with critics. .In _
fact, one studio executive " says he’s never,

seen a worse box-office showing for a
major motion picture. . , ' 5
Receipts for the movie’s premiere

weekend in about 800 theaters nationwide T

m awﬂwpﬁmd » g, 2 740/

totaled $1.3 million, said Jerry Esbin, sen-
ior vice president in charge of sales and
advertising for United Artists, which
released “Heaven’s Gate.” He said he was
hOping for about a $5 million weekend
total.

. “It did extremely had,” said Esbin
from UA’s New York headquarters. “I
haven’t seen numbers this low on a major
motion picture in my life.

Filmmakers hitfor allegedanimal abuse

The Associated Press

1 NEW YORK - The makers of the :40"

{million . box office disaster “Heaven’s

Gate" are being criticized by the ASPCA -

for allegedly abusingganimals. during
production- -~

, ' ‘Dr. John F. Kullberg, executive direce
tor of the American Society -. for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, said an.

investigation by theAmerican. Humane As-
sociation “apparently documents the suf-v

fering inflicted on horses, steers. chickens,

ponies and fighting cocks.” -

,He especially noted a cock fight se—
quence in which roosters With razor blades
in their talons “rip‘ each other to shreds.”
Kullberg said the scene took a week to
shoOt and asked, ' “How many cocks were

‘ ' slashed and killed during the week-long

shooting?"

The investigation also'alleges that five
horses died on location during the filming
of the epic about the 1890range, wars by
director Michael Cimino.

 

‘—._

f’The picture is not a classic,” he said.
“It won’t go down in the annals as being
‘Godfather.’ It won’t go down in the annals
of being an Ingemar Bergman picture. It
won’t be a ‘Deer Hunter,’ another one of
Cimino’s pictures. '

“But whatever it won’t go down for, I
don’t think it’s that bad a picture for the

. reception it’s“ getting. .' .. But I guess that’s

aven’s Gate’

what makes horse racing.”

The new l53-minute version of the
epic of cattlemen-farmer warfare in 1892
Wyoming opened last Friday after five
months of re—editing. The original 219-
minute film opened in New York last Octo-
ber to brutal reviews. UA immediately
withdrew it and director Cimino worked
around the clock with an editing cre

,. ,., ...r ...va- . us»,

 

 

w——

_ making more than 300 cuts. .

 




 

The heartless acts of
some movie directors
cause observers to

illH
lllllli
nits;
nniu
run!

I
byMichaeI Satchell

 

 

,
V‘ I
‘ ..,
'35.
i g’
, _
t
1.
':-«
- , .
..
-
‘ a 5
,.
- ll"
.
- I f
. I V
- x
- h

 

4 pt, ', »- ' t h I' ' ‘. t V . . l l ‘
~ . l'. ‘ ' 3- i . ' ' 'i . " ‘
. s ‘ ‘ n. ~ ' . 3‘ ' ~ I ‘ - - V '
‘ - ‘ .- ' ' r .1...‘ ‘ o -. , . \ ' .3 ~ .'. < j
. ‘ v . < I . an, -.: .
. ‘. \ ‘3" . . .— -. . . . .5 . . . ‘ ‘ _ ...
.r g ‘ l in“ . a. _ . .. . l j u -

 

 

nimals, who are among
Hollywood’s most popular
performers, also are its most
mistreated, abused and vic-
timized.

That is the conclusion of a

'PARADE investigation of the movie

industry’s persistent treatment of do-
mestic and wild animals. Both on and
off camera, cruelty is on the upsurge.
While cowboys fire blank bullets and
Indians shoot rubber arrows at one
another, animals are often given no
protection at all as directors strike for
bigger shocks and spectacular and
often gory thrills.

Jack Valenti, president of the Mo-
tion Picture Association ofiAmerica
(MPAA) lnc., says: ”Cruelty to animals
in motion pictures, or anywhere else,
is inhumane, immoral and inexcus-
able."

But that’s not necessarily the atti-
tude in the real world of the silver
screen. The problem of cruelty to ani-
mals, sometimes including maiming
and even death, is causing grave con-
cern to the American HUmane Asso—
ciation (AHA), which maintains a
Hollywood office to monitor the treat—
ment of animals, and to the Humane
Society of the United States (HSUS),
which is concerned about poor living
conditions and training methods.

Most moviegoers presumably are
lulled by the assumption that scenes
of animals undergoing suffering or in-
jury are filmed by trick photography.
But this is only another Hollywood
illusion. ,

PARADE's investigation turned up
many instances of horses being killed
or subjected to bone-crunching falls
with "Running Ws”—tripwire de—
vices in which long wires are attached
to a horse’s front legs before a stunt-
man gallops the animal at full speed.
When the horse reaches the end of the
wire, it is smashed to the ground, risk—
ing a broken neck, legs or teeth. The
Running W supposedly is banned in
Hollywood and is widely condemned
by the MPAA, but it is becoming pop-
ular again and has been used in sev-
eral recent major Westerns.

In addition, dogs have been stran-
gled, shot or tormented. Ex'otic, even
rare animals, from a giraffe to a rhino,
have died through stress, ignorance
or poor handling. \Mld animals that
would normally avoid each other at
any cost have been forced to fight. A
menagerie of creatures—rabbits, rac-
coons, birds, wolves, big cats—have
been killed or injured as directors pur-
sued their visions of entertainment.

 

This week's cover photo by john R.
Hamilton/Ciobe shows a trained
horse taking a fall during a Hollywood
filming. As it clearly demonstrates, an-
imals can be made to perform dan-
gerous feats realistically after proper
training and using careful methods.
Unfortunately (see sequence at left)
some directors aren’t taking the pains .
to do so and are using "Running W5,”
tripwire devices which can injure
horses.

 

4 PARADE 0 APRIL 26, 1981

 




 

Unscrupulous trainers have several
tricks to prompt their animals to per-
form. Live chickens strung on nooses
and dangled in front of big cats will
excite them into action. Rabbits run
fast and straight if their backsides are
rubbed raw with emery paper and tur-
pentine is splashed on. Terrified dogs
are staked down as bait for filming
scenes of big cats stalking prey in the
”true-life wilderness" type of movie.
Docile wolves, bears and other ani-
mals required to show ferocity for a
film are sometimes coached the easy
way—with a beating.

David Carradine, an actor who is
sensitive to this issue, has a rider in all
of his movie contracts stating that all
animals must be treated under AHA
standards or he can walk off the pic-
ture. The rider stems ffom an experi-
ence he had when making The
Serpent’s Egg with Swedish director
Ingmar Bergman. Carradine explains
what happened:

”Ingmar wanted to kill a horse on
camera, and l protested. Well, he
compromised and shot it off camera,
then used the steaming carcass in the
.scene. It was totally insane, a real trag-
edy. I walked off the set. I asked him
later why he did it. He told me he'd
killed two other horses, burned a
horse and had a dog strangled."

Ironically, Carradine stars in The
Long Riders, a Western rated “Unac-

ceptable" by the AHA for the reported ‘

use of Running Ws to create horse
falls. Informed of this, Carradine ex-
pressed amazement. ”I had no idea,"
he says. ”I didn’t see those scenes
being shot."

Since 1976, 38 movies have been
condemned by the AHA for the re-

ported abuse of animals during film— ‘

ing. They include Patton, with George
C. Scott; Francis Ford Coppola's Viet-
nam epic Apocalypse Now, starring
Marlon Brando; The Mountain Men,
with Charlton Heston; The Missouri
Breaks, with Brando and lack Nichol-
son; Steve McQueen's next to last
movie, Tom Horn; and Anthony
Quinn's new film, Lion of the Desert.

Moviegoers who buy tickets to
Michael Cimino's re-edited version of
his $40- million film Heaven’ 5 Gate,
which reopens April 24 after bombing
last November, will see an account of
the Wyoming range wars of the 1 8905,
stunningly photographed in Montana
against the backdrop of Glacier Na-
tional Park and containing spectacu-
lar battle scenes involving hundreds
of extras and animals. The stars of the
film are Kris Kristofferson, Christopher
Walken, Jeff Bridges and Isabelle
Huppert.

What won’t beshown on the screen
are the deaths, cruelty and abuse that
horses and other animals suffered dur-
ing the making of Cimino’s new film,
his first since The Deer Hunter.
Cimino and his crew ignored repeated
requests from the AHA to station a
humane officer on the set—a precau-
tion that could have prevented much
needless suffering.

Eyewitnesses—including actors,
extras, crew members and the movie

 

 

 

Clint Eastwood’s View:

lllllllllY MIIST BEAST!

 

lint Eastwood makes a lot of
animal movies, and he's one
of the few personalities who’s
not reluctant to talk about the

subiect of cruelty to animals»

openly
“I won 't tolerate it and never

have,” he says. “There' s no movie

that’s worth it.” '

Clint is willing to bring the issue
into; the open because he cares
deeply about what happens to Hol-

lywood's fou r—legged performers, -

both on the camera and behind it.
He has nothing but contempt for
directors he calls “ridiculous and

“insecure"——those willing to kill or

maim animals as they pursue their
obsession with realism rather than
employing illusion or camera
tricks

”Making a movie is the magic of . '

illusion, he explains. “It's sleight
of hand- anything can be done.
Look at P5 cho. Alfred Hitchcock
had the gir sliCed up in the shower.
Well, if you analyze it shot by shot,
nothing really happens. It’s the way
the scene is assembled that makes
it so real. Animals can be used in

the same way. A good director can _

have an animal appear to be under
terrific stress, can have him do

some terrific stunts, but they don’t

have to be real .. .they don't have to
involve cruelty."

As we talk, two cats purr by his
desk and a bag of cat food sits on
the floor by his chair. “Strays,” he
grins. “They used to scavenge

here." Others who know him tell of
how he once raised a fawn that had
been orphaned by deer hunters.
”He cared for it like it was one of
his own kids," a friend relates.

‘ Eastwood may be the‘world’s
foremost box-office draw, with his
movies so far grossing $500 m‘i|~
lion. He almost never grants inter-
views but agreed to meet with us
because, he says, “it’s an important
issue, and if PARADE can focus on
it, maybe something can be done."

We met at Malpaso' his movie
production company, headquar-
tered In a bungalow on the Warner

Bros. studio lot in Burbank. Clad
in a blue, Western-style shirt with
a Bronco Billy movie logo on the
back, Eastwood recounted his long
career of working with animals in
his movies.

“I won't allow a scene where
animals are mistreated," he em-
phasizes. "I’ve loved animals all

 

around the studio. Now they live J

 

my life, and I' ve brought my kids
up the same way, to respect every
kind of living creature, animals or
insects. I don' t hunt, and I go fish—
ing only when I’ m hungry for fish.

"My first movie was a bit part
where I had to pull a white rat from
my pocket, my first animal per-
former. I did Rawhide for eight -
years, and we rode horses just
about every day, but we always
had a Humane Society guy on the
set. I know what a 'Running W' is,
but in all my Westerns, I've never
seen one used, and I wouldn’t al-
low it. I've seen trained falling
hOrses work, and that can be done
well.

“Running Ws are an absolute
zero— a total negative. When I
came into pictures, they were out-
lawed,.and I'm sorry to hear they
are coming back. Sure, they make

for a spectacular fall, because the

horse has no idea he' s gonna be
tumbled. But the odds for injury are
quite high.”

During the filming of his two
movies with Clyde, the beer—guz—
zling orangutan, Eastwood says, he
went out of his way to ensure that
none of the tricks or stunts was
dangerous.

“I told the trainers that if any—
thing was even slightly risky .or un-
acceptable to them, we wouldnt
do it. Even so, we had plenty of
animal gags and stunts. The first
time I read the script for Every
Which Way But Loose, I wondered
if it was feasible to work with wild
animals. Turned out that we never
had any problems, and we had an
awful lot of fun. " -

Moviegoers who saw Any
Which Way You Can and won-
dered about the scene where the
"mongoose" Is killed by the cobra
can rest easy. The ”mongoose’
was actually a ferret, and the snake
was harmless. After the noisy skir-
mish between the two, the ”dying
mongoose' ’was actually a tired fer-
ret lying down for a well~earned
nap.

If you saw Eastwood' 5 High
Plains Drifter, you might recall a
scene where a character shoots his
horse that has gone lame. Some
directors, in their pursuit of realism,
would have had the horse shot.
.Not Eastwood.

“It was an important scene," he
explains. 'A veterinarian anes-
thetized the ‘horse, and at the pre-
cisev moment when it got woozy
and went down, we filmed the ac-
tor firing a blank pistol at the horse
Afterwards, it was so realiStic that I
said maybe we ought to cut the
scene out-people would think we

' had really shot the horse.”

 

 

PARADE . APRIL 26,1981 5

 

 




veterinarian—report that at least five
horses were killed during filming, and
Running Ws were used to tumble ani-
mals. in his obsession with realism,
they say, Cimino refused to use fake
blood for some scenes. Steers and
horses were bled from the neck to
smear on actors and dead animals.
About a dozen live chickens were de-
capitated and their blood collected in
plastic bags for the same purpose.

A large number of unshod ponies,
many thin and in poor condition,
came in for rough treatment. One
scene called for them to be unloaded
from railroad boxcars, and Cimino
shot it 23 times before he was satis-
fied. By day's end, say eyewitnesses,
the tired horses had to be beaten into
the boxcars. Some had cut, bleeding
feet with hooves worn down to the
quick.

A top class, prize-winning Arabian
show horse worth $15,000 was rented
from a Los Angeles woman as one of
the lead cast horses, a gift that
Kristofferson gives to Huppert in the
movie. When it was returned ei ht
months later, says the owner, 5 e
didn’t recognize her animal. A vet-
erinarian's report listed it as bein
grossly underweight and anemic, su —
fering from sores, swelling, leg splints
and other ailments. lt's show career is
over, and the woman is suing Cimino
and head wrangler Rudy Ugland for
$1 million.

Cimino also staged a cockfight—
illegal in Montana—and crew mem-
bers say it took a week to film. A large
number of birds were used, and they
fought, at times, with metal spurs.

Such casualties were the result of
the callous use of animals regarded as
expendable by Cimino—who refused
to comment—as he indulged his pas-
sion for realism, apparently not caring
who or what got hurt in the process.

Canadian musician Ronnie
Hawkins, veteran of the rockabilly
barroom circuit and sometime actor,
was riding the horse that took the full
blast of a special-effects explosion
during a battle scene.

Says Hawkins: “lt was an accident.
I couldn't control the horse, and it ran
right over the charge. It blew the sad-
dle clean off the horse and blew both
of us u in the air. I got the wind
knock out of me. The horse was

alive, but it went into shock and died .

later.

"All three of my horses in the movie
got killed. One threw a shoe, got an
abcess on its foot and they put him to
sleep. Another hit a groundhog hole
and snapped his leg. They made
horsemeat outa him”

A Kalispell, Mont, veterinarian put
down a fourth horse after it suffered
cut leg tendons during a scene. Crew
members say a fifth horse was shot
after it broke a leg while being herded
on rough terrain during a scene.

The man in charge of livestock for
Heaven’s Cate was Rudy Ugland,
Hollywood’s bestcknown horse
wrangler, who has provided stock and
supervised riding stunts in many ma-
jor Westerns. From his spurs to his

##—

PARADE 0 APRIL 26, 1981 7

1

Stetson, handsome, curly-haired
Ugland personifies the image of the
American cowboy, and he works hard
to maintain it.

Last year, Us magazine described}

him as ”choreographer of horses, em-
bodiment of the old West and
wrangler to the stars.” Ugland was
quoted-as saying his main job is ”to
keep the actors and horses from get-
ting hurt—if I don’t feel that the stunt
planned is safe for a horse, 1'“ refuse
it." However, eyewitness reports of
Ugland’s animal handling on the set
of Heaven’s Gate and his history of
conflict with the Hollywood office of
the AHA belie his professed concern
for the welfare of horses in his charge.

We caught up with Ugland on a set
in the mountains north of Los An-
geles, where he. was staging a rodeo
sequence for a crew filming a blue
jeans commercial for lapanese televi-
sion. The stories about horses being
killed, tripwires used, animals being
bled are, well, horsefeathers, accord-
ing to Ugland. Didn't happen. Come
to think of it, he later agreed maybe
one horse did get blown up. That's all.

”The Running W is the most hu-
mane way to make a horse fall," Ug-
land insists. “1 like the Running W. l’ve
used it dozens of times on piCtures,
and I've never so much as skinned a
horse’s nose. That Humane Associa—
tion don't know what it's talking
about. They had 10 pictures on their

 

1

“Unacceptable" list once, and I’d
made nine of 'em. They aggravate the
hell out of me.” .

Animal trainers and horse
wranglers sometimes find themselves
in a difficult position with a demand-
ing director. They may be unhappy at
being asked to stage risky stunts with
their animals, but in the cutthroat
competition in which Hollywood’s
animal men work, they know that if
they don’t do the director’ 5 bidding,
somebody else will, and they may be
frozen out of future jobs.

One of Hollywood's most re-
spected wranglers and horsemen is
Corky Randall, who trained the three
Arabian horses—each dyed the same
shade of black with gallons of Lady
Clairol—that played the lead role in
The Black Stallion, a critical and com-
mercial success.

Like other trainers, Randall has lost
his share of work when he has refused
to subject his horses to stunts that he
knows to be cruel. Randall says that
illusion and directorial skill can fool a
moviegoer into believing anything.

“In Black Stallion, there were
scenes of apparent cruelty, but it was
all trick photography," he explains.
"In the scene on the ship where the
horse is being beaten, the whip was a
strip of cloth and the lashing sounds
were dubbed in. Myself and an assis-
tant were dressed up as natives, sup-
posedly fighting to control him. Actu-

 

 

llll©Wﬂl39 was ©

For a list of the 38 movies noted
”Unacceptable" by the American Humane
Association in the last 5 years, write to:
American Humane Association, PO. Box 77,

«Hollywood, Cal. 90028. The American '
Humane Association will also pass on your
views on this issue to the Motion Picture
Association of America and to the major

Hollywood studios.

 

L

ally, we were having him rear up on

command.

“The sounds of the horse screaming
in agony were actually a recording of
a stallion.mating with a mare. It
sounds like hell, but only a horse ex-
pert would know the difference.”

Randall says he would never tum-
ble a horse with a Running W. “It’s
just plain cruel," he insists. ’A trained
falling horse isn’t as spectacular, but I
don’t think the public minds. Right
now, though, there’s only about 15
real good trained falling horses work—
ing. It’s cheaper to use a Running W
and take the chance that it might get
killed.”

Determining reality from illusion is
difficult in animal scenes, but with
westerns—the main offenders in the
cruelty issue—the moviegoer usually
can tell if a Running W or other form
of tripwire is used. A trained falling
horse will always come down_on its
side-usually the left side—with its
neck and head twisted away from the
fall. A horse pulled down by wire in-
variably tumbles head first and falls
forward or somersaults, with its front
legs suddenly jerked up to its belly as
it reaches the end of the wire.

Horses, the most enduring of Hol-
lywood's animal performers, have
suffered the most abuse over the
years. The death of a horse, in fact,
prompted the first imposition of hu-
mane standards in filmmaking more
than 40 years ago; '

In 1939, the late Tyrone Power
starred in the title role of lesse lames.
In one scene, he is cornered by a
posse and gallops toward the edge of
a cliff. During filming, a stuntman
took over and rode the horse onto a
greased plank rigged to tilt and plunge
horse and rider over the cliff for a 70-
foot fall into a river. ,

The stuntman survived, but the
horse suffered a spectacular and ob
vious death. Some 50,000 enraged
moviegoers flooded Hollywood with
protest letters, and the major studios
were forced to establish guidelines.
Scripts involving animal action were
to be submitted to the AHA. Devices
like the Running W were outlawed as
early as 1939. Various humane stan-
dards were established, and humane
officers were given the right to ob-
serve animal sequences as they were
filmed.

For 25 years, the system ran
smoothly, but in the mid-19605, things
began unraveling. Small, indepen-
dent film companies sprang up that
refused to adhere to the guidelines
agreed upon by the big studios. Films
were increasingly shot on location,
making supervision difficult. The pub-
lic, enchanted with television, began
abandoning the movies, putting
greater pressure on directors to
provide more spectacular action. In
1966, Hollywood ended the censor-
ship system of the Hays Office (fore-
runner of the MPAA) and dropped the
mandatory guidelines for animal wel-
fare, urging voluntary compliance in-
stead.

The result was predictable. Run-

 

ﬂ

 




 

ning Ws came back, and directors who planned to
submit animals to questionable treatment refused to
provide the AHA with scripts or allow humane of-
ficers onto their sets. A few examples from recent
movies illustrate the trend. .

In Patton, claims the AHA, two mules were shot on
the set and tossed off a bridge for effect. When the
movie is shown on television, that scene is always
cut. In Wishbone Cutter, a Civil War drama filmed in
Arkansas, four horses were reportedly killed on the
set and rolled down a hill.

To heighten the tension and drama of the climactic
scene in Apocalypse Now, Francis Ford Coppola
included a gruesome shot of a live water buffalo
being hacked to death in a bizarre tribal ritual. The
slaughter was filmed in the Philippines, but the ac-
tion took place supposedly in Cambodia, where
water buffaloes are sacred and not ritually chopped
to pieces.

An AHA request to visit the set of The Missouri
Breaks was denied, and the lead horse in the movie
was drowned when its foot became trapped in a
submerged vehicle during a river crossing scene. A

 

humane officer would have inspected the riverbed
for hidden obstacles and insisted on a lifeline. The
film was also condemned for tripwire stunts and the
brutal killing of a rabbit.

During the filming of the sci-fi thriller Prophecy a
crew member called the AHA's Hollywood office to
report that a raccoon was in danger of being beaten
to death for a scene. Humane officer Gordon Jones
raced to the studio and stopped the action.

"The actor had had enough of hitting the raccoon,
and he was trying to go easy and fake it, but the
director was screaming for him to keep going and hit
it harder," Jones says. ”I asked them to stop, and they
did. In the movie, the raccoon is thrown into a fire,
but I made sure they used a dummy."

The issue has also spilled over into television. CBS
Chairman Vtﬁlliam Paleyfound himself caught in the
middle of a lively controversy after the network
showed a made-for-television movie called The Last
Giraffe, a sort of long-necked version of Born Free.
The film told the story of attempts to save a tiny herd
of rare Rothschild giraffes in Kenya, but during the
shooting of the show, three of the giraffes reportedly

 

 

 

 

died of stress or poor handling.

New York viewers who tuned in to a cable televi-
sion channel on Christmas Day two years ago saw a
film of a small brindled dog being tied to a stake, then
shot to death with a rifle. The 30-second sequence
was repeated for 30 minutes and presented as con—
ceptual art. A flap ensued later when it was dis—
covered that the "artist". had partially funded his
Shot Dog Film with a grant from the National Endow-
ment for the Arts, the federal government's agency
that supports culture with tax dollars.

A crew filming an episode of the teleVision series
The Chisholms on location in Illinois had two rabbits
and ducks killed for use in a scene, and an outra ed
Republican Congressman, Trent Lott, attempte to
write federal legislation banning such action in
moviemaking. His bill went nowhere after becoming
bogged down with legal and constitutional diffi-
culties. A similar bill did get passed by the California
legislature, but only after it was watered down to the
point of being ineffective.

The best hope for better treatment of animal per-
formers lies with the Hollywood office of the AHA,
which is headed by Carmelita Pope, a veteran actress
and television performer who supervises a staff of
five field investigators. She and the AHA, say Holly-
wood observers, get high grades for effort, but they
labor under several handicaps.

Offending directors and animal handlers can be
prosecuted under state humane laws, but getting
someone to testify against them is difficult. Explains
Pope: "Many people who witness cruelty on the set
report it to us, but they daren't go into court for us.
They have to keep working in this town, and they are
scared to go up against a director and lose their jobs.

”Besides, what’s a $100 or a $1000 fine to a direc-
tor spending millions of dollars making a picture? We
take the approach of trying to monitor, to educate
and to get cooperation. If we have a problem with a
movie, our best weapon is to try and tie up produc- .
tion. That can be enormously expensive.”

Then there’s the problem of movies imported from
overseas, and Hollywood productions shot on loca—
tion outside the U.S., where it’s impossible to super-
vise animal action. Pope would like to see this
country adopt the English system, where all movies
with animals are screened by the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which has the
power to excise offensive material before the movie
can be released. That kind of censorship, however, is
a throwback to the old Hays Office, and Hollywood
would never tolerate it.

Recently, however, there has been progress. The
contract signed last fall between the movie industry
and the Mo actors unions calls for studios to submit
scripts to the_AHA when animals are used and to
allow humane officers on their sets. However, de-
vices like the Running W are not specifically out-
lawed, and no sanctions are spelled out if directors or
producers ignore these contract clauses.

Actors can walk off the set if they see instances of
cruelty, but that’s hardly likely to happen except with
major stars who command as much influence as a
director.

The AHA's other weapon is publicity. When it

, deems a movie "Unacceptable,” a synopsis of the

action and the unfavorable rating are mailed to some
2500 local Humane Society branches, to the na-
tionai office of the PTA, and some local film councils.
Trouble is, the AHA rating rarely reaches the atten-

' tion of the mass movie audience, which can decide

whether or not to boycott a film.

“We need some way to expand the ratings list,”
Pope agrees. ”It’s not effective at present. Our most
effective tactic is for our local AHA branches to
organize in their communities and picket films.
Movie patrons who are concerned about the issue
should write to the studios and protest. And they will
pay attention because you buy the tickets.” 9

 

8 PARADE . APRIL 26, 1981

 




 

 

It takes experience and a lot of luck to
; produce a snath. Breakage during the
' process may run from 5 to 75 per cent.
? “There’s no predictability to a piece of
Q wood,” says Bates. “And every time a
; snath breaks—most often in the bend-
: ing—it means we’ve lost four and a half
i dollars in materials.”
, As a quality control measure, each
snath is grabbed by the thick end and
whacked on the cement floor three
times. “If it doesn’t break, we ship it out,”
says Bates. “A snath will outlast seven
blades, and we’ve never had one re-
turned because it broke in use.” A snath
retails for $19 to $23.

A do-it-yourselfer who wants to make
his own snath can try the technique used
in the old days. In the fall, a farmer
would select a suitable sapling and stick it
in the manure pile. Come winter, after
the uric acid had softened the wood, the
farmer would draw out the sapling and
bend it to. his own liking while sitting by
the ﬁre. K.A. ANDERSON

Guard Donkeys

If you raise sheep or goats, think about
keeping a few donkeys, too. According to
Dr. George Haenlein, a professor of
animal science at the University of
Delaware, donkeys are protective by na-
ture, and most predators don’t want to
tangle with them.

Haenlein has been rearing donkeys
with his goat herd since 1957, and he
maintains that they make better guard-
ians than dogs. Dogs require more train-
ing and attention, he points out, and
sometimes an inexperienced or poorly
trained dog will injure the animals it is
supposed to protect. Donkeys are con-
tent to receive the same care as their
Charges and would never turn on them.

It’s best to introduce a donkey to your
goats or sheep as soon as possible after its
birth, Haenlein says. Then it will accept
the other animals as its own kind and
become protective of them when it’s
grown. “When a predator comes
around, the donkey will bare his teeth
and may even charge. He’ll bite and kick
at the predator, and although he won’t
often kill it, he will tire it and scare it
away,” the professor maintains.

Haenlein’s praise for his guard don-
keys is echoed by others who depend on
these sturdy animals to protect their live-
stock. Harriet Whitbread of Vienna,
Virginia, says her donkey sleeps at the
goat-barn door every night, blocking the

Jit/IEUVﬂ’L
€0UW7R%PR/l /‘18/

 

 

entrance of any nocturnal raiders. Dur-
ing the day, the donkey stays with her
eighteen goats out in the field. The goats
seem to consider the donkey one of the
herd; it’s the only other animal they’ll
allow in the barn at kidding time.

Tim Morris of Reisterstown, Mary-
land, has been protecting his sheep with
donkeys for the past ﬁfteen years. Cur-
rently he has seventy-five donkeys
guarding two thousand or so ewes. “One
year I had ﬁfty-six sheep killed by three
Doberman pinschers. But since we’ve
had the donkeys in the ﬁeld, I don’t think
we’ve lost a single ewe to a dog,” he says.
He adds that some donkeys make better
guardians than others. “Of the seventy- ;
five out there, maybe seven or eight do
all the protecting. Those are the most
aggressive ones,” he says.

Haenlein suggests that burros re-
moved from Southwest rangel'and by the
federal Bureau of Land Management
should be taken to sheep farms in Wyo-
ming and Idaho, where they can be bred
to produce guard donkeys. But there’s at
least one sheep farmer in those parts who
may not need them. John Lye of Mor-
ton, Wyoming, had been losing ten to
fifteen sheep to coyotes every year. Last
year, he didn’t lose any. His secret?
Llamas from South America. The
coyotes seem to have developed a
healthy respect for the llamas’ formida—
ble size, keen eyesight, and spitting abil-
ity, and they’ve been leaving Farmer
Lye’s flocks alone.

 

 

 




Wild Burros
Still Under Fire

When the National Park Service an-
nounced a plan to shoot the wild burros
roaming the Grand Canyon last July, ani-
mal loversmounted a $500,000 rescue op-
eration to airlift the burros to safety. Using
hounds, pontoons and helicopters, volun-
teersfrom the Fund for Animals evacuated
580 burros without mishap. The last two
animals—nicknamed “Over” and “Out”—
were airlifted out last month, and Arizona
Gov. Bruce Babbit said the story had come
to “a happy, happy ending.” However,
2,000 burros on other government lands
throughout the West are still in danger.

The National Park Service handed down
its death sentence because the burros, which
are not native to the area, were fouling
water supplies, hastening erosion by tromp-
ing over the canyon and eating the plants
that native animals need to survive. The
Fund trucked the burros to its ranch outside
Murchison, Texas, where they mingle with
wild pigs and goats the group has saved
in the past. The burros, which are descend-
ed from pack animals used by miners,
quickly adjusted to domesticity, and 200
have now been adopted as pets.

Safety Hazard: The Fund charges $200
for adoption, but that’s only one—ﬁfth what
it cost to rescue each animal. “We’re the
closest to being broke we’ve. ever been,”
says Fund president Cleveland Amory,
who nevertheless promised the rangers
that he would evacuate any burros that
the roundup missed. And the group is al-
ready gearing up for another rescue this

NEWSWEEK/ APRIL 13, 1981

 

fall at Bandelier National Monu-
ment in New Mexico, where 90 bur-
ros are under the gun.

The Fund couldn’t save 648 burros
at California’s China Lake Naval
Weapons Center. The Navy shot the
animals last month without any ad-
vance notice and explained afterward
that they had created a safety hazard
by wandering onto roads and run-
ways. Last fall a sailor was seriously
injured when his motorcycle hit a
burro, and pilots often had to abort
landings to avoid crashing into the
animals. The Navy says the marks-
men killed each burro instantly with L '
a single bullet ﬁred at close range, but
Amory scoffs that “even William Tell
couldn’t have done that.”

Burro lovers are also keeping a wary eye
on the Reagan Administration. They’re
afraid the government may try to repeal
the. Wild Horse and Burro Act of 1971,
Wthh protects these animals on all Federal
land except military bases and national
parks. Last month Interior Secretary James
Watt told a Senate subcommittee that “we
must manage wild horses and burros as
we manage other game out there.” That
led Amory to sputter: “I think Jim Watt
should be treated like a game animal.”

 




Ebelltlania Zuumal
Section 8

Thursday, April 9, 1981

9"“

 

 

 

 

‘3‘? .'.’t--.’:’:. “"5 7 H H ‘3;:

xiii .z. 2-. *3- :52- ' . ' . » - . '=:-'-
says elderly need pets

r Alan

Medicine
goes to
the dogs

Beck

Veterinarians are getting '

more highly specialized
By CHARLES SEABROOK

Journal Staff Writer

It’s no wonder dogs act a little human
every once in awhile: Their doctors think
of them as almost being people.

Just like our doctors, veterinarians
have become highly specialized. There are ;
now veterinarian heart specialists, eye
specialists, dermatologists, cancer special-
ists, and many more specialty types of ani-
mal doctors.

Dr. Lawmnce Tilley, for instance, is a
veterinarian cardiologist at the Animal
Medical Center in New York, one of the

. largestsuch hospital in the nation.

“The same processes that go on in
humans also go on in animals, and there
are a lot of similar diseases,” he says. “A
lot of the drugs and other procedures that
are used. to treat pe0ple also are used t
treat animals.” ~

Tilley and some 2,000 other veterinar-
ians are in Atlanta this week for the 48th
annual meeting of the American Animal
Hospital Association. In various scientific
papers and discussions, the animal doctors

' talked about a wide range of medical '

problems facing veterinary medicine.

“Often, we will go to a ‘human’ doctor
for consultation about an animal we are
treating,” says Tilley, “and often the
‘human’ doctor will come to see us. He
may want toknow, for instance, how
effective a particular drug is that we are
using to treat a dog.”

For an especially tricky procedure,
veterinarians might ask a "doctor for
humans to operate on an animal.

Tilley and other veterinarians are now
implanting pacemakers made for humans
in dogs in order to correct abnormal heart
rhythms in the animals. He has played a
major role in setting up a “bank” in which
used pacemakers are “deposited” and then
pooled out to veterinarian Cardiologists
around the nation.

“Thus far, our group alone has im-
planted about 40 pacemakers in all types
of dogs,” he said. .

By recycling pacemakers, he added,

' the pet owners are saved considerable ex-

pense.
Tilley also has set up another indis-
pensable service for veterinarian heart
specialists - a central electrocardiogram
reading service.

“We now haVe about 3,000 veterinar-
ians using our service,“ said Tilley. A
veterinarian can do an electrocardiogram
on a dog, telephone the recording through

a special device to the cen-
ter in New York, and the
center’s veterinarians will
interpret the EKG’s find-
ings.

“If it’s an emergency,
we’ll read it on the spot,”
said Tilley. “Just this past
week, we did an emergency
EKG reading for a veteri-
narian in New Zealand.”

Why would anyone go to
such lengths and trouble .
j-Just to save the life of a
dog? ‘
Dr. Alan M. Beck, direc-
tor of the Center for the
Interaction of Animals and
Society at the University of
Pennsylvania School of
Veterinary Medicine in
Philadelphia, said millions

l

of maple become thor-
oughly attached to their
animals, loving the animals

; as deeply as they would a
child. ..

Beck said there are re-
ports of peOple who have
become seriously de-
pressed, died or committed
suicide when separated
from their pets.

This is especially alarm-
ing because over 12 per-

< cent of elderly dog owners
are forced to give up their
animals when they are not
permitted to keep them in
housing projects for the
elderly, said Beck.

“Everyone talks about
the loneliness of the elderly
and then they exclude pets
from» their housing,” said
Beck. “Loneliness all by it-

. self is a contributing factor
to human mortality; lonely
people experience greater
rates of disease in all cate-
games.”

In a study of heart at-
tack victims, 94 percent of
the patients who owned
pets survived, while only 62
percent of those without
pets did not survive, Beck

; Said.
Having pets can benefit

thje mentally ill. Studies of
j psychiatric

outpatients
show that animals can im-
prove the patients’ morale,
deafease feelings of hope-

1. , v» " ._,'
, ‘_-,£' .___ '.}.‘.{,‘1-.. ‘

lessness and isolation, and
be a distraction from one’s
problems.

There is a growing num-,
ber of veterinarians de-
voted to the treatment of
psychological ills of dogs
’ and cats and other animals.

“Today, dogs, cats and
even horses are being
treated for things like ag-
gression, hyperactivity, de-
structive behavior and
phobias,” said Beck.

Veterinarians Ginger
Hamilton and Mollie Rob-
bins 'of Silver Spring, Md.,
said adding another dog or
cat often help to solve or

 

 




 




 

EARTHWATCH

 

Man and Beast

Americans are showing a healthy, and growing, respect
for the value of other animals.

by Dr. Victor B. Scheffer

Man always has a reason for his charities
towards wild things, human or animal—
when he has any—Mark Twain

THERE IS COMPELLING evidence that
something has indeed changed since
Mark Twain wrote his observations on
men and the other animals. The exam-
ples of his day are still with us—the well
stabled pleasure horse, the well fed
cow—but there are signs of a growing
awareness of the intrinsic value of other
forms of life.

Exactly one year ago I attended a
four-day “Conference on Cetacean Be—
havior and Intelligence and the Ethics 'of
Killing Cetaceans.” It was convened by
the International Whaling Commission,
a group representing 23 nations. I
thought it unusual that the Commission,
traditionally devoted to exploiting
whales as cheap sources of meat, bone,
blood and oil had suddenly recognized
its own social accountability. The Com-
mission had suddenly begun to think of
moral boundaries as well as catch limits
or whaling quotas.

I’m a zoologist. My career happens to
have overlapped the rise of professional
wildlife management in North America.
Lately I’ve studied the many and various
ways in which people use the wild birds
and beasts that certain zoologists and
other concerned individuals have
helped to conserve, and I see a clear
trend toward benign uses, or uses nei-
ther particularly injurious to individual
animals nor to their populations.

“1 love forms beyond my own,” said
the late poet-scientist Loren Eiseley,
“and regret the borders between us.”

Americans celebrate in April the an-
niversary of Earth Day, the day that
opened for some the age of environmen-

 

Dr. Victor B. Scheffer is a freelance writer
and zoologist living in Bellevue, Washington.

l4/APRIL-MAY 1981

tal awareness. In our role as partisans of
Earth we have become more concerned
with feeling and less with knowing. We are
reaching through and beyond analytical
intelligence toward what Patrick Corbett
calls “the kinds of intuitive or imagina-
tive intelligence displayed by cats, moth-
ers and-poets.”

National laws have been enacted
which favor benign uses of wildlife.
Historically, when Congress has dealt
with wildlife matters it has shied away
from ethical or sentimental arguments.

 

The environmental
movement is fueled by
more than the
enthusiasm of jane

Fonda, Barry Commoner
and Robert Redford.

 

This may again prove to be true, but in
1971 it passed the Wild, Free—Roaming
Horses and Burros Act, making clear
that most Americans want these animals
to run free as living symbols of the his-
toric and pioneer spirit of the Old West.
In 1972 Congress passed the Marine
Mammal Protection Act; it stipulates
that seals, whales and other sea mam-
mals must not be “harassed.” And if they
must be taken alive (by permit only) the
taking must involve “the least possible
degree of pain and suffering practica-
ble.” The importation into the US. of
pregnant or suckling animals is forbid-
den. Here we have a gesture of pure sen-
timent.

Bird and beast watching is replacing
sport hunting. At f ive-year intervals the
US. Fish and Wildlife Service conducts a
national survey of hunting, fishing and
wildlife-associated recreation. Between
1960 and 1975 hunters increased slight-
ly in numbers but their representation in
the comparable-age population dropped

from 11 percent to nine percent.

I carried out a personal inquiry into
the growth of camera safaris, or pro-
grammed tours offering close-up views
of wild animals. (The advertisements in
Adventure Travel are a rich source on
such safaris.) Sixteen travel agencies re-
sponded. From 1971 to 1978 the aver-
age annual increase in number of safaris
was a whopping 32 percent. This could
be a result of many factors, but it certain-
ly represents great interest in viewing
wildlife.

I also looked into the growth of ani-
mal-interest groups like the National
Audubon Society and the National Wild-
life Federation. From 1963 to 1978
membership in 15 groups climbed at an
average annual rate of 7.7 percent
(about eight times faster than the popu-
lation as a whole). Interest in sport hunt-
ing having declined, this points to new
interest in passive “uses” for wildlife.

The issue of “animal rights” is being
widely discussed. I’m impressed by the
speed with which national interest in ani-
mal rights is spreading. At least 15 books
dealing with the issue have been pub-
lished since 1970. The titles of a few in-
dicate their ﬂavor: The Moral Status of
Animals; Animal Rights and Human Ethics;
Animal Rights and Human Obligations;
Animal Liberation; Animals, Men and M or-
als; The Hunt.

The startling notion that animals have
the right to sue for damages was given
national audience by justice William 0.
Douglas. If inanimate ships and corpo-
rations can sue in their own names, he
argued in 1972, why not objects of na-
ture which likewise are “owned” by hu-
mankind? Already the palila, an endan-
gered bird, has successfully sued the
State of Hawaii for allowing feral goats
and sheep (maintained for the pleasure
of hunters) to destroy its habitat.

Having studied for 50 years how
Americans use wild animals I’m con-
vinced that we’re showing new respect
for nature and life. The environmental
movement—called by some the ecology
movement—is fueled by more than the
enthusiasm of Jane Fonda, Barry Com-
moner and Robert Redford; it is fueled
by a spreading understanding that re-
spect for nature and for life are basic to
our survival as civilized beings. It is
fueled by the understanding that envi-
ronmental science, ecology and econom-
ics are inseparable parts of one science.
And it is fueled by understanding that
injustice to humans and injustice to ani-
mals are not separate matters.

 




ATLANTA CONSTITUTION - April 9, 1981

Group aims
to spare
test rabbits

The Associated Press

BOSTON — Anti-vivisec-
tionists and a medical
school —- long at odds over
animal research — joined
forces Wednesday to find
an alternative to painful
eye tests that use rabbits to
check the safety of cos-
metics.

The New England Anti-
Vivisection Society made a

$100,000 grant to Tufts i

Medical School to find a re-
placement for the Draize
eye irritation test.

The test is used to check
the toxicity of hair spray,
eye shadow, toothpaste,
oven cleaner and other
products. Researchers
place live rabbits in metal
harnesses, put the testing
material in one eye and
then wait a few weeks to
see whether the animal suf-
fers eyedamage.

“This is a first — the
first time that an anti-vivi-
section society has joined
with a medical school to
try to relieve animal suf-
fering,” said Robert M.
Ford, a Norfolk Probate
Court judge who is presi-
dent of the New England
society. .

The Tufts research will
be directed by Dr. William
HJ. Douglas, a biologist.

“There is tremendous
damage to the animals’
eyes, and very often the

rabbits are blinded,” Doug- ;
las said. “The test can be

quite painful.”
About 500,000 rabbits
are used this way each

year in labs around the ,

country.

 

Douglas is working on an
alternative that will use
human eye tissue to test
the products in test tubes.

Using corneas obtained
from the New England Eye
Bank, Douglas plans to
reproduce the eye cells in
test tubes, then deve10p a
way to measure how their
reproduction is affected by
the cosmetics and other
test materials.

Besides freeing the ani-
mals from this testing,
Douglas said his method
should also be more accu-
rate than the Draize ex-
periments.

Henry Spira, coordinator
of the Coalition to Step
Draize Rabbit Blinding
Tests, said the research

program is a first step for
anti-vivisectionists.

 

 




THE SUN

4/9/81

in the suburbs, your NEWS day isthe SUN day!

" “3.211222:
. 5 and Southside .‘ QHMERICA

J Member

Grant Sought ForAnial Shelter

By JUDY HOTCHKISS

Exotic animals may find a
temporary home in the
Fayette County Animal
Shelter if partial funding for
an addition comes from
Gov. George Busbee’s
emergency fund.

By changing the proposed
plans for expansion of the
animal shelter to include
cages for exotic animals
taken into custody in metro
Atlanta by the Department
of Natural Resources
(DNR), the proposed expan-
sion could be more easily af-
fordable.

. That expansion would in-

clude eight dog runs, treat-'.

ment and storage rooms, ad—
ditional offices, a conference
room for educational
programs, a room With 30-
day isolation cages for bite
cases and cages for exotic
animals.

These facilities would be
located in a 30 by 50-foot
two-story addition to the
present shelter which would
cost $30,000 to $35,000 said
Bill Newman, shelter
director.

Newman previously an-
nounced the Fayette County
Humane Society was
starting a fund drive to
build a single-story building
with eight dog runs, a treat-
ment room and storage.

THE DIRECTOR ex-
plained that DNR has no
facilities for holding the ex-

otic animals they take into

custody. “There is no more
room in Grant Park Zoo (in

southeast Atlanta) where

they were sending them.
They have so many animals
of their own (to house),” he
said. The Fayette shelter
could fill that need.

On March 27, Newman
applied for $20,000 funding
from the governor’s
emergency, or discretionary,
fund. He does not know how
long it will take to process
the application or if it will
be approved.

A few years ago, while
working for the Atlanta
Humane Society, Newman
“worked closely with the
DNR to obtain funds for the
Atlanta Humane Society to
build a holding area for ex-
otic animals.”

The governor allocated
$10,000, but the group was
unable to carry out the pro-
ject due to Occutational
Safety and Health Act
(OSHA) regulations im-
posed on private groups
such as the Atlanta Humane
Society.

The Fayette shelter,
Newman said, is county-
owned and would not be
subject to these restrictions.

NEWMAN reported
donations of time and
building materials have
been received, but more are
needed.” He has also ob-
tained bars for the exotic
animals cages. They were
removed from the Fayette

County Work Camp
building when it was made
into offices for the Public
Works Department and
other county services.

“We are asking animal
lovers to help support this
project,” said Newman.
“We have already outgrown
the Space we’ve got.

At the end of March, we
had 48 animals at the

shelter. We would prefer to
have 24 animals in eight
runs. We average about 35
animals (on a given day), in-
cluding puppies. Putting
four or five dogs in a cage is
asking for trouble.

“If every pet owner in
Fayette County donated $1
to the Humane Society, we
would just about build the

building,” he said. “(The

Humane Society) is trying
to build. the addition so it
won’t cost county taxpayers
a thing. We know there are
people who don’t have or
want to support something
like this. Hopefully people
with animals will come

I through.”

TO make a donation, call
Newman at 487-6450.

 




By Hyde Post

(9: the A: arse decimal

HEPHZIBAH, Ga.—For some, it
was weekend entertainment for the
whole family. They brought the kids,
_ . some less than 5 years old, and they

. sat in a barn and drank and cheered
and ate barbecue while blood flowed
freely from dogs trying with every
ounce of strength to kill each other.

But on a recent Sunday, on a farm
in this rural community about 14 miles
southwest of Augusta, the evening’s
program 01‘six dogfights was sudden-
ly interrupted.

Shortly before 1 am, about 18
agents of the Georgia Bureau of Inves-
tigation, clad in camouﬂage fatigues
and armed with shotguns, walked
quietly around the edge of an open
field toward the light and crowd noise
coming from Lee J. Ward’s cow barn
a quarter-mile away.

THE AGENTS sprinted the last few
yards, then spread out and blocked off
both ends of the corrugated metal
building. The aluminum bleachers re-
sonated in a stampede of bodies. Some
left through the windows, but Were
scooped up immediately, either by
GBI agents or the Richmond County
sheriff’s deputies who assisted in the
raid.‘ .

A white pit hull was still in the
fighting pit when agents first called on
those in the audience to put their
hands on their heads. The ddg seemed
nearly oblivious to the activity around
her.

She listed slightly to one side. but
adrenalin and her “gameness” kept
her standing. despite the blood flowing
from a deep bite on her snout. Her
once-white coat was stained with blood
all the way to her hindquarters.

ACCORDING TO Frantz Dantzler.
field investigations director with the
Humane Society of the United States
in Washington, the white dog will
probably survive. But at least one of
nine— other dogs impounded was
. chewed up too badly and was not
expected to live.

Those who paid $50 for the privilege
of watching the fights were a mixed
lot. Some came in Lincolns and Cadil-
lacs, wearing feathered cowboy hats
and high heels with designer jeans.
carrying moneyclips fat with $1.000
bills. Others were bearded and bear-
like in bib overalls and “Cat" hats.

Most seemed to have knives, and
many carried guns, which they quick-
ly dropped among the floor litter when
the GBI arrived. Common to many
was an unwillingness to discuss their
attraction to the sport with outsiders.
But one young woman there with her
boyfriend offered a partial explana-
tion. “If you like a guy, you learn to
like his hobbies. This is like a club."

Just 18 of the more than 100 people
who gathered for the fights were ar-
rested, according to Sheriff J.B.
Dykes. He noted that only Ward, the
promoter and

property owner, was

_ Photos by Billy Downs'Atlama Newspapers
A dog bears the wounds of his battle in'
the pit after Georgia agents raided a
commercial tight in Richmond County
recently. There were more than 100
participants and spectators, including

children.
matches.

from Richmond County; the rest came
from allover Georgia and from at
least five other states.

SOME WERE charged with felony
violations, such as possession of
cocaine and commercial gambling.
But many were charged with misde-
meanor offenses: marijuana posses-
sion, carrying a concealed weapon,
selling unlicensed beer, and cruelty'to
animals. , ,

Authorities conceded that they in-
vested a lot of manpower to make, in
effect. a bunch of small-crimes cases.
but they said they hopedthat exposure
of what goes on at dogfights would
prompt legislators to stiffen the laws
against the sport. .

“I think dogfighting, or even at-
tending a dogfight, should be a
felony,said Mike Carothers, the GBI
case agent on the raid. “1 think any-

' body who could see those animals, the

condition they were in, would agree
with me.” ’

Dantzler said _the dogﬁghts on.
Saturday night in Hephzibah are re-
peated somewhere in Georgia nearly
every cool-weather week of the year.
Dog owners do not like to fight animals
in the summer because the heat takes
some of the bite and vigor out of their
performance, he said.

It cost $50 to watch the

WHILE TEXAS has the greatest
number of organized dogfights each
year, Georgia and Florida run a close
second. "

Dantzler, who has traveled the coun-
try investigating _ organized dog-
fighting, offered a description of
events leading up to and through a
typical fight.

The first step, he said, is the negoti-
ation of a contractual agreement
between owners who want to fight
their animals. The owners must agree
to a stake bet, a date for the fight, and
the sex and weight of the dogs to fight.

A half-dozen contracts were seized,
for wmner-take-all fights ranging from
$150-$500.

For four to six 'weeks leading up to
the fight. said Dantzler, the dogs are
subjected to a conditioning process
known as “a keep.”

FOR YOUNG PIT bulls being
groomed for their first battle, the own-
er will often pair his dog with a
smaller dog of some kind. or with a
cat tied up in a bag. It is a sparring
match with a most unkindly conclu-
sion.The idea, said the investigator, is
“to blood them.” ‘

American pit bulls, which stand
about as tall as a boxer, have the
strongest jaws of any breed. Dober-

a:

r

Chicago Tribune, Sunday, April 12, 1931 Seetion'l 5

mans or German shepherds, although
larger, "‘wouldn‘t last five minutes
with a good pit bull.” said Dantzler.

He said the animals are bred and»

trained for “gameness,” an unflinch-
ing willingness to keep on fighting, to
die for their handlers if necessary.

_ ' 0n the date' of the fight, after con-

voys of fight enthusiasts are led tothe
unpublicized fight site. the owners wash
each other’s dogs to be sure the ani-
mals' coats have not been treated with
chemical agents that would tranquilize
or sicken the animals.

“AFTER WASHING,” said
Dantzler, “it is not uncommon for an
owner to pull up a fold of the dog’s
skin and taste it himself to be sure no
chemicals have been used.”

The owners then take custody of
their own dogs again and bring them
to the pit, usually a carpeted affair
about 20 feet square with walls about
three feet ‘high. The dogs, gripped
between their owners’ legs, are faced
into opposite corners of the pit until
the referee calls out, “‘Face your
dogs." ,This is the first time, Dantzler
said, that the competing animals see
each other. Then they let them go, and
the animals charge, sometimes collid-
ing with such force that they bounce
off each other. .

( Dogﬁghts: Cruel but ﬂourishing ‘sport’

In length. organized dogfights are
not 'unlike professional boxing. They
may last a few minutes or several
hours. There is little barking. The
noise comes from the crowd, which is
usually involved in vigorous side-
betting and equally vigorous drinking.

If, during the fight. one of the com-
batants shows some sign of cowardice,
a whine perhaps, the referee may call
“a turn,” Dantzler said. The dogs are
then separated. A .piece of wood,
known as a “breaking stick,” is usual-
ly necessary to gain sufficient lever-
age to pry the jaws of one dog from
the flesh of its opponent.

THE ANIMALS are then returned to

their corners, and after a quick wash,

the “cowardly” dog is given 10 sec-
onds ‘-‘to scratch.” The coWardly dog.
when released, must cross the pit and
immediately attack the other dog.
which is still being held by its owner.
If the tenacity test is passed, the
dogs are, pried apart again and then
released simutaneously from their
comers.
DANTZLER SAID there have been
occasions when an owner will shoot a
cowardly dog at the fight scene, but he
added that if a dog has won previously
or made a fair showing, the 'owner will
usually try to nurse his animal back to
health — to fight again, if possible.

 

 

 

 




 

 

URBAN covert-:5

 

HE PHONE rings off the

hook in Dennis Kroeplin’s
ofﬁce at the West Valley Ani-
mal Shelter these days.
Kroeplin, one of two trappers
employed by the City of Los
Angeles, spends part of his
time pursuing coyotes sus-
pected of killing cats and small
dogs in the foothills of the
Santa Monica and San Gabriel
mountains. As development
pushes ever higher into the
hills, the number of complaints
rises (doubling in 1980).

In Grifﬁth Park, at the east
end of the Santa Monicas, Dr.
Warren Thomas, director of
the Los Angeles Zoo, sits in his
ofﬁce wishing he could make
his ﬁeld displays more realistic.
Flamingos, in particular, re-
quire special protection be-
cause coyotes enter the
grounds at night.

Some hill dwellers, fearful
for their pets and even their
children, want the coyotes ex-
terminated. Others set out food
for them. They ar’e’all wrong,
says Lila Brooks, director of
California Wildlife Defenders,
who has devoted ﬁfteen years
to the preservation of Califor-
nia’s indigenous fauna. “People
tell me, ‘The coyotes are in my
backyard.’ I say, ‘No, you are in
their backyard.’ We have put

—

 

 

They only bite the hands that feed them.

cement around their habitat
and surrounded them with hos-
tile humans.” _

Any way you look at it,
coyotes are spending more and
more time in contact with hu-
mans, they are losing. their fear
of us, and they have bitten peo-
ple. But anyone afraid of being
nipped would do well to re-
member that most reported at-
tacks have been by coyotes that
are used to being fed. There
were 50,000 domestic animal
bites in LA. County last year,
but when a coyote nips some-
one it makes the eleven o’clock
news.

Brooks ’would like. to see a
limit on construction in the
hills, similar to the building
controls in force along the
coast. She has lobbied for anti-
feeding ordinances and for the
building of water holes in an
effort to deliver the coyote
from temptation. Her advice
has been followed in Glendale,
Pasadena, and South Pasa-
dena, and so far the results
have been good.

Brooks also wants a" ban on
trapping. She believes it is in-
humane, but, more important,
she believes people and coyotes
should leave each other alone.
Others, like Thomas and, not
surprisingly, Dennis Kroeplin,

66/Apnu. 1981 'NEH/ WEST. ”)96‘1

 

 

support the selective trapping
of “rogue” coyotes—those
bold individuals who, bored
with ground squirrel,- lunch on
poodle. ‘

If you respect and admire
coyotes, you’ll be glad to know
that the calls for extermination
are not universally applauded
in scientiﬁc circles. Dr. William
Wirtz, a biology professor at
Pomona College who has stud-
ied Cam's Iatrans for several
years, points out that an exter-
mination policy would be both
impractical and unwise. With-
out coyotes, rat infestation
would be even worse than it is,
and the ground squirrel popula-
tion would soar. Ground squir-
rels do more than ruin vegeta-
ble gardens; they are vectors of
the plague. Also, as a practical
matter, coyotes are extremely
intelligent, and it is not at all
easy to trap them.

Environmental protection is
hardly a trendy issue these
days,‘but there it is. You’ve got
the money and you want to live
someplace nice and see the
stars at night, and here’s this
creature staring back at you
from out of the Pleistocene.
Right or wrong, it’s not realis-
tic to expect people to volun-
tarily stop building in the hills.
But the very least we can do for
the former owners is to hold the
Alpo and lock up the garbage.
And to understand that if Fido
goes out at night, he may not
come back. . —John Gorham

 

 




 

“‘I‘ﬁéﬁé'é

.‘ n-‘

 

 

 

 

 

s,.Atlantic City;Fridai"
. 1'5 ‘- V -. V ’

 

$33331?
By MARY DURAN

If anyone deserves a hero award,
it is Podchie.

The little canine, whose eyes are
nearly the size of his diminutive

aws, not only takes his duties as
amil caretaker seriously, but
does ollow-up telephoning as well.

Poochie — whose given name is
Koko - is the adored pet of the
Sampson family of Chelsea Avenue
in Atlantic City.

Koko, of course, converses very
well over the phone, but that isnt
his eatest attribute.

rtha Staut, Koko’s neighbor,

can tell you more of the little dog’s

rsistence and sense of responsi-

ility. “I had fallen and hurt
myself,” said Staut, who is 87.

“And I believe if Koko had not
gone and gotten help for me, I
would have died because no one
else knew the trouble I was in,” she
continued.

Dorothy Sampson, whose home is
above Staut’s ground-floor apart-
ment, said one morning some
weeks a o Koko had tried for more
than an our to get the attention of
the family.

“We hadn’t heard a thing,” said
Sampson, but Koko persisted until
members of the Sampson family
finally gave him their attention and
ferrete out the trouble.

“He lead us to Mrs. Staut’s apart-
ment,” said Sampson, “and then we
heard the low moaning and called
for help.” ‘

 

Koko Sniffs Out

Rescue Mission

Staut was truly in trouble. Taken
immediate] to the hospital, she
was treate for a broken hip and
shesaid later that doctors be ieved
if she had gone unattended for
another 20 minutes she would have
died.

“He saved my life and be de-
serves the reco nition of a hero,”
said Staut, who as been a staunch
friend of Koko for most of his
seven years. “I’ve always spoiled
him and let me tell you when I get
home he’s oing to get his reward,”
she said rom her room in the
Atlantic City Medical Center,
Mainland Div1sion.

Staut’s eyesight does not allow

her to read and writing is hard, too.
She asses time by an occasional
telep one conversation and one of
her callers is Koko. “You might not
believe this,” said Sam son. “But
he knows her voice and e barks to
her over the phone.

“We believe he is telling her that
he misses her.”

Beauty Scores

Connie Simmerman of Dennis-
ville, a senior at Middle Township
High School, was the third runner-
up‘ in the eastern Pennsylvania
finals of the Miss Hemis here
pageant which was held at lym-
outh Meeting, Pa. The 17 year old
will again compete in Philadelphia
in March. Her parents are Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Simmerman of Acade-
my Road, Dennisville.

 

 

 

       

 

. ._.., ._. ._.~-

 




A . its: ,r
x —
.

t .

fié/mﬂ

 

 




Say Hel

oaGori

It’s easy.
Unless you’re a scientist.

the Dial ‘

 

BY CHRISTOPHER HALLOWELL

cientists who study monkeys and
apes have a problem. Most of them. in
the interests of objectivity. striye to put
psycholog'eal barriers between them-
selves and their research subjects. They
do not want emotion to warp their stud-
ies. But this isn’t easy. especially with
gorillas, chimpanzees, and orangutans.

1 found out when I met Beaver-
brook. He was a chimpanzee and a resi-
dent of the Trayellers Rest Hotel. at the
edge of the Budongo Forest. in westem
Uganda. 1 was a guest at the hotel for
several days (this was when Uganda
was still a peaceful country). and Bea-
yerbrook became my companion. We
had a grand time. though he was only
three years old. We wrestled (his
strength matched that of a small. wiry
man). played hide-and-seek. and ex-
plored the periphery of the forest.
where his brothers and sisters still lived
in the wild. (Beaverbrook’s mother had

 

Christopher Hallowell is senior editor
of The Dial.

PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER B. KAPLAN

been shot when he was only a few days
old: the hotel owner had found him
helpless on the ground.)

One day. l was in my room eating a
snack and felt eyes on me. There was
Beayerbrmk at the window. a grin coy-
ering his face and hand outstretched.
Selfishly. I popped the remainder of a

cookie. into my mouth. took up a book,

and pretended to read. Beaverbrook
stared at me with a shocked expression.
I expected him to start screeching.
But he only gave me a chilly hiss,
wheeled away, and vanishedl felt guilty.

An hour later. I went out to the
hotel’s terrace and sat on the steps that

led down to the forest. The patter of
chimp hands and feet sounded from be-
hind. I expected the usual nuﬂle. What
I received was a terriﬁc blow on the
back that sent me tumbling to the bot-
tom of the steps. At the top, Beaver-
brook clasped his hands over his head
and did a little dance.

Physically and emotionally shaken, l
was also thrilled. Such a damnably
human little hairy beast. He coveted his
neighbors cookies, harbored a grudge,
took revenge, and rejoiced in
vindication.

At the Yerkes Regional Primate
Research Center at Emory University,
in Atlanta, objectivity .is the cardinal
rule. Scientists there. as well as in other
places where apes are studied, do their
work, or hope to, Without letting emo-
tion cloud their science. Displays hung
on the white walls along gleaming corri-
dors attempt to explain the nature of
the research. One shows rhesus mon-
keys horribly and intentionally de-

formed With cleft palates. the result of

13

 




" ' polio, sixteen,
" .742 pounds. :
.7 f 1 , 4} :Central Park Zoo,
. ‘Qlew York City.
defends to stare at women
; I«’with long blond hair. Keepers
‘s, 3 , racall it his Fay Wray complex.
‘ g ‘ g ' atlas one daughter,
' ’mamed Patticake.
glikes hot dogs, chocolate
' ice-cream cones,
and, occasionally,
Dannon yogurt.

 




 

“Wu.--”

    

 

 
  

F"

r,

#183 four chi

 

,I'.)
’

‘Jikes bananas,

*aeasygoing.
and his kwper

is 5thrGweet, and

Illkumbamu

Home Washi

80 pounds.
rice pudding.

 

xi);

mithsonian Nati
00'09ical Park

ldren.
wi

ngton,
onal

3
ns
3 speci

twenty-seven,
D.c *
th ski
al




 

 

 

.“ﬁ~," 191.5“ A

'V

 

 

'Chuma, sixteen,
350 pounds.
Home: Los Angeles Zoo, on
loan from New York’s
Bronx Zoo.

Is very shy and retiring.
Though lived with three
females in New York, may
not have had a role in
producing their offspring.
Moved to Los Angeles in
hopes he would definitely
be a father. Became one.
Has one child, a daughter
named Julia.

Likes lettuce.

 

 

 




an experiment to determine whether
synthetic chemicals produce that defect
in humans. Others show the results of
induced cancers. techniques of artiﬁcial
insemination. and infant abuse in goril-
las. Solid science. And yet. even here.
pure amarement at the animals’ sim-
ilarities to humans sometimes pulls at
the. researchers. .

Ronald Nadler has studied reproduc-
tive behavior and mother-infant rela-
tions in gorillas for the past decade.
enough time for him to have developed
confidence in his objectiyity even while
acknowledging his feelings for his re-
search subjects. cc\When I work with go-
rillas,” he says, "I try not to think about
them at the emotional level. If I re-
garded them with warmth or sensitivity.
1 would disrupt my research. Even so. I
have to take their personalities into con-
sideration. When I came to Yerkes. I
was used to working with rats, animals
from which one can disassociate one-
self. But I had been here for only a
short time when I began to think of go-
rillas in human terms. My favorite is a

, ‘r. , ~_ '
if , 3
:9

ﬁim—JItﬁ,;tWelnty-six,' 3

a." “'

; «v Home: Detroit 200,) _
3 . alOak,Michigan.'v
~‘:g hds tim'epee‘ling the .
Mad from rubber tires ,
" ,xaintis cage; ' f _. ‘
alias no children, although *
4%!1ehastried. ‘ _ * ' *~

inkes grapes and bananas,
«which he peels himself. ‘

female named Paki. She’s got a lot of

self-conﬁdence and is always friendly.”

niﬁcent 400-pound male with mis-
chievous eyes. He lives at Yerkes in an
eight-by-twenty-two-foot indoor-out-
door cage with a concrete floor and
steel bars over an inch in diameter. His

keeper claims he could break out of the

t is hard not to think of gorillas in

human terms after seeing Ozzie, a mag-

The GorittaPics

In order to get the ﬁve portraits of gorillas that appear here and on the cover.
photographer Peter B. Kaplan hauled four cases of strobe-lighting equipment and
ﬁve motorized Nikon cameras to the zoos in each of The Dial’s member cities. He
used sixteen various lenses and is grateful to Nikon for the loan of a lOS-millimeter
macrolens for extreme close-ups. His object was to capture each animal’s individ-
uality and make the pictures look as if the gorillas had posed in a studio. In fact, the
pictures were taken through bars or through glass.

Kaplan thought that Jim-Jim (Detroit) was the handsomest, even though J im-
]im’s picture is the most melodramatic of the ﬁve. Chuma (Los Angeles) was con—
stantly coughing. Niki (Washington, DC.) watched while the lights were set up,
then emphatically sat down with his back to the camera. Sinbad (Chicago) was "a
pussycat,” and Congo (New York) ate 3530’s worth of junk food during the shoot-
ing. Throughout the week’s work, Kaplan and his assistant were pelted by the

subjects with an orange, several grapefruit, and some feces. NevertheleSs, they

concluded that the animals were "digniﬁed.” —C. H.

 

 

 




enclosure if he set his mind to it. When
I was introduced to Ozzie, he was hun-
kering down on a concrete perch at-
tached to one wall of his cage and
eating some celery. Holding the stalk in
one hand, he stripped the branches off
with the other and nibbled on them
with impressive delicacy

As I watched he ga1e me sly
glances. Just then a gorilla family 1n the
adjoining cage drew m1 attention and
I walked over to see an infant doing
cartwheels. No sooner had 1 taken up
m1 new position than I saw Ozzie push
his gigantit head against the bars of his
(age. to peer out obliquel1 at me. When
l turned toward him he vanished.
When I tumed back toward the family.
O/zie reappeared. his lips pursed in se-
riousness and his eyes gleaming. Again,
he withdrew a split second after I
looked at him. It dawned on me that
this huge animal had engaged me in a
game of peekal11x1.

But peekabm was not 07/165 objec-
tive. Sensing that he had me snared.
Ozzie. disappeared again. I waited. No
Ozzie. A sucker. I stepped toward his
cage. and as l came into full View ofit. a
massive blur hurtled toward me. a rush
that ended in a hip cheek gainst the
cage door that would have awed any
professional hoe ke1 pla1er. The entire
rage shook and the c langing of the bars
echoed harshl1 through the building. I
jumped against the wall. 1111 hair on
end. in primiti1e terror. Ozzie lo1 ed the
effect. I congratulated him on his stag
ing. As he mounted his perch once
again and took up his celery, 1 detected
a new shining in his eye—enormous sat-
isfaction. or so I interpreted it.

"Everybody who works here is
under an internal pressure to develop a
close relationship with the animals."
Nadler sa1s. When I go up to Owes
cage and talk to him I feel a closeness
between us.”

Though Nadler appears at peace with
the contradiction between his emo-
tional and his scientiﬁc responses to the
gorillas, other scientists are not so fortu-
nate. Some do not even regard objectiv-
ity as possible. Some find that they
unintentionally destroy their research
projects because they are unable to ad-

18

here to the emotionally sterile relation-
ships with apes that traditional
scientiﬁc standards necessitate. Fred-
erick A. King. director of Yerkes, has
saved the careers of some of these
people. One was trying to find out
whether gorillas could recognize them-
selves in a mirror, a capability that both
chimpanzees and orangutans have been
shown to possess. If it turned out that
gorillas could not recognize themselves.
it would have indicated a substantial
cognitive difference between this ape
species and chimps and orangutans.
The results of the study, however.
showed gorillas to be adept at self-rec-
ognition. so adept that King became

suspicious. He went over each stage of

the research with the student and dis-
covered it to be full of unconscious bias
toward the gorilla. King recalls the stu-
dent. ha1ing realized what had hap-
pened. as saying 'I was embarrassed
for the gorilla; lb didnt want people to
think that gorillas are dumb.

nother researcher who doesn’t
want an1one to think that gorillas are
dumb 1s Francine Per1n1 Patterson.
the by now well-known Califomia psy-
chologist who is the mentor of Koko. a
nine- ye ar- -old female gorilla being
taught to ”talk in American sign lan-
guage used by the deaf and mute. Pat-
terson. who has raised Koko since her
first 1ear of life, dismisses objecti1it1 b1
saying: "Its impossible not to de-
1elopb a relationship with a young go-
rilla. Its not unlike a parent- -child
relationship. Gorilla infants have the
same needs as human infants. They
need an enormous amount of affection.”
Amy Vedder. an ecologist who has
done research on mountain gorillas in
Rwanda, echoes Patterson’s feeling for
gorillas, though afﬁrming the impor-
tance of objectivity in her own research
project. "I ﬁnd a gorilla’s eyes irresist-
ible,” she says. "It’s very easy to look
into them and wonder what the animal
is thinking, what it is doing and why. as
if it were another kind of human.”
Apes may have deep droughts, after
all, and certainly their emotions are
very evident. Unfortunately, attempts to

teach them to express themselves to us
have not paid off to the extent of en-
abling them to di1ulge an1 subtle think-
ing. Of the apes that researchers ha1 e
tried to communicate with. l\oko 1s by
far the most apt pupil ha1ing now' mas-
tered a working 1otabular1' of almost
500 signs. But she 1s so far unable to
combine many of these with an1 regu-
larity. A chimpanyee named Nim. who
learned 125 signs under the instruction
of Herbert Terrace. a Columbia Univer-
sit1'ps1chologist. could manage only
such simplicities as Banana me eat
Tea drink. and "'Sweet Nim" afrte

three and one-half years.

N’ims lack of linguistic progress
caused 'l‘erraee to blow the whistle 011
the potential for communication be-
tween apes and human beings. espe-
cially after he noticed that his chimp
and other chimps, as well as Koko, ap-
peared to imitate whatever their teach-
ers signed. Terraces hard conclusion
was that apes are better imitators than
abstractors.

While Patterson agrees that Koko
will never manage much of a discussion
intellectually stimulating to humans.
she does think that Terrace is being
blind and overly pessimistic about man
and ape communication. She points out
the evidence that some primates living
in the wild appear to communicate in a
manner that humans, conditioned by
the narrow view that human language is
unique, have not yet learned much
about. One study determined that yer-

vet monkeys, in Africa, signaled to one
another when they spotted a danger
such as an approaching leopard. a cir-
cling eagle, or a python by uttering not

a general sound of alam1 but a very spe-
ciﬁc cry for each situation. When the
monkeys saw an eagle. for example.
they grunted. When they saw a leopard.
they made a barking and snoring
sound.

If humans ever do succeed in pene-
trating a primates mind. the results may
be unsettling. We may learn how differ-
ent from us these animals really are.
Until then. the laymen among us. at
least, can enjoy contemplating the
"humanity” of apes. El

 




 

14_ Secnon 5

Chicago tribune, Sunday, March 29, 1981 if:

 

O

Pets of prisoners
_ must do time, too

By Carol Oppenhelm

Chicago Tribune Press Service

LOS ANGELES - Goldy and Junior
have spent four years in a prison, and
there is no limit to their sentences.

Their crime: They belong to a human
who fell afoul of the law.

Under a 25-year-old ordinance, perhaps
the only one of its kind in the nation, the
city is required to impound the pet of
anyone who goes to jail if there is no one
else to care for it.

And if the owner refuses to give up the

. pet, it serves time, too, until the owner is
r

eed -- no matter how many years it

takes.

EACH YEAR. according to Robert
Rush, manager of the department of ani-
mal re ations, the city takes in several
hundr pets, everything from dogs and
cats to monkeys, roosters, horses, moun-
tain lions, and,‘once, a laughing hyena. It
costs about $100,000 for their care.

Usually, the owner posts bail within a
few days and reclaims the pet. “But
there are unusual situations,” Rush adds.

Like Goldy and Junior, a pair of stall-
ions that were swept up by animal regu-
lations officers in May, 1977, during an

investigation of an illegal kennel repor- .

tedly containing 40 dogs.

“The dogs were badly treated but the
horses were fine,” said Gary Olsen, the
city’s animal shelter supervisor,” and we
offered to give them back. The owner
refused. She didn’t want to pay the $25
fee for each horse.”

' The owner subsequently was convicted-

of inhumane treatment of animals. She
remains free pending the outcome of her
appeal. Meanwhile, Goldy and Junior
stay penned in a 50-by-50-foot yard at the

animal shelter.

. “THEY NEED to be worked and rid-
den but the ordinance doesn’t provide for
that,” said Olsen. “It’s a very inhumane
treatement.”

In the case of the laughing hyena, the
department made a unilateral decision
within ‘ a' very short time to give the
animal to a zoo. '

But Ziggy was another matter.

A purebred giant black schnauzer,
Ziggy was locked up in July, 1978, when
his owner was arrested on charges of
child molesting. The first weeks, Ziggy
snapped ‘at women and' children but he
was a marvelous watchdog at night, ac-
cording to Olsen.

The shelter workers started giving him
extra bones and taking him for walks.
His disposition improved, and soon he
was everybody’s pet.

People offered to adopt Ziggy, but his
owner refused to release him. He even
declined the department’s offer to ship
the dog to his estranged wife in the
Midwest.

LAST MONTH, the owner was sen-
tenced to five years in jail. The depart-
ment appeared in court and persuaded
him to give up Ziggy. At that point, the
dog had “done” 21/: years.

“We’re geared only for temporary
housing of animals,” said Rush. “We’re
supposed to make sure they aren’t aban-
doned but no one foresaw that these types
of things could happen. And the law
makes it clear we have to keep them.”

The department is trying to have the
ordinance changed to permit the city to
dispose of an animal after 30 days. Even
if the new law passes, it won’t help Goldy
or Junior. There is no retroactive provi-

sion.

 

Photo for The Tribune by AP

Guilty of association only, a cat, the-pet of a Iawbreaker does time in a City of Los
Angeles animal shelter. ‘ - .




 

289.314Sundav Saturday, March 14, 1981

 

JOE KENNEDY / Los Angeles Times
One Of the QVOWinq number of deer that are posing a threat to the vegetation on Angel Island.

 

 

Plan fer Coyotes
to Control Deer on
stand Assailed

BY PHILIP HAGER.
Times Staff Writer

SAN FRANCISCO—Few state
parks match Angel Island—a large-
ly untouched, 744-acre preserve in
San Francisco Bay. No cars are al-
lowed, but it is readily accessible by
ferry boat. It has hiking trails, bike
paths, picnic sites and a spectacular
view of the San Francisco skyline.

It is also a place where the deer—
if not the antelope—play. And that’s
the problem.

There are up to 200 deer roaming
the tiny island. And their increasing
number has vexed authorities and.
rekindled a highly emotional con-
troversy over how to control the
deer population. .. , . _

The problem, simply put, is that
the island cannot handle that many
deer. Five years ago, during the
drought, officials preposed shooting
some of the animals but backed off
after a loud public protest.

Please see COYOTES, Page 29

 




a" . . 1

'1‘ L.

‘ _ , . ‘ .

’ ”,-

w‘," A‘.
4 , 2&1; ’-
71. it. wet-xi
v": -.y.-~—n P)“ 2‘ ‘~

. . ~.-- ‘- 33%;:{5‘ . ,,
JOE

.‘f. . .

Y / Los Angeles Times

i""..
.‘C "“VJL ’ ..

ianger Joe Matte looking over Angel lsland, where overgrazing by deer has become a problem.

QOYITES: Proposal Stirs Protest

Continued from First Page

Now they have come up with a
novel plan to use a small band of
imported coyotes as predators to
keep the deer population down.But
that plan. too, has encountered an-
gry opposition.

This week, as the coyote proposal
was unveiled, the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
warned it. would lead to “slaughter”
and. urged that the excess deer be
relocated. One Marin County super-
visor termed the coyote proposal
“ludicrous” and “preposterous.”
Another predicted it would turn the
island into a “circus” of bloody at-
tacks on the deer.

The Marin Wildlife Center, a V

non -profit animal care and rehabili-
tation organization, is urging that
alternatives be explored.

“Coyotes are not the ideal preda-
tor for deer, if there is such a thing,”
Alice Katzung, the center’s direc-
tor, said in an interview Friday.
“The ’re small and unenthusiastic
about hunting large animals, like
does and bucks. They don’t make
clean kills 3 . x ,

‘No-Win Situation’

“If we can come up with a more
humane method than using coyotes
—a method the public will accept—
*we ought to do it and do it soon,”
she said. “We’re in a no-win situa-
tion. We’re unhappy and the pub—
lic’s unhappy. And the deer are
going to be the losers no matter
what happens.”

Are there other predators that

I-

could do the job? Yes, says Katzung:
mountain lions. But that won’t work
either. “We can’t put mountain
lions on the island because nobody’s
sure what might happen. They
might even swim ashore (to San
Francisco). In any event, if you put

mountain lions on the island, you’d ’

have to take the people of
The coyote proposal was devel-

. oped for the state Fish and Game

Department by Dale R. McCul-
lough, a UC Berkeley professor of
wildlife management. Under the
plan, six wild coyotes would be cap-
tured, neutered and innoculated.
They would be equipped with spe-
cial collars emitting radio signals
that would enable fish and game of -
ficers to closely monitor their acti-
vities.
Expensive Proposal

Authorities believe the deer herd
originated in 1915 when the Army
brought a small number of animals
from Sonoma. The island, near Ti-
buron in Marin County, has the
space and vegetation to support up
to 100 deer. During a drought, when
the herd had grown to 225, dozens
of deer died, littering the island
with carcasses. The herd also has
been plagued with diseases.

According to officials, relocating
the animals would be expensive and
result in more problems that it
would solve. Relocating the tule elk
is costing the state $1,000 per ani-
mal.

A new habitat would suffer, as
would both the new deer and the

-, w.» ,
‘11s", ... . ,

deer existing there. “It would be

like putting extra people into your »
home without adding food or

space,” said Jack White, a fish and

game spokesman.

There is also fear that relocating
the deer would result in the trans—
mission of disease.

Most authorities agree that simp-
ly shooting the deer-a task that
could be performed by marksmen—
would be both humane and efficient
but would arouse such an outcry it
is not now a feasible prospect.

The proposal to use coyotes will
require approval from both fish and
game and park commissions. Public
hearings on the issue have been
scheduled before the Central Coast

_ Wildlife Conservation Council.

Angry Phone Calls

Meanwhile, it has fallen on fish
and game authorities to field tele-
phone calls from members of the
public upset over the prospect of
coyotes attacking and consuming
deer on the island.

According to White, public reac-
tion has been “more negative than
positive’P—at least thus far. White
himself took one phone call from an
irate Woman wondering how the
state could sanction “coyotes killing
defenseless deer.”

He explained at some length that
there were three alternatives—
shooting the deer, using predators
or leaving the deer to starve to
death. Which did she prefer? he
asked.

“I don’t want any of them,” she
replied.

 

 




 

Shooters for Navy Kill
381 China Lake Burros

By JOHN KENDALL, Times Staff Writer

CHINA LAKE NAVAL WEAP-
ONS CENTER—Hundreds of wild
burros which roamed this Mojave
Desert facility were killed over the
weekend without prior public notice
by civilian sharpshooters employed
by the Navy.

In the aftermath of a two-day
operation, the Navy said Monday
that 381 burros had been killed in an
“emergency burro reduction pro-
gram” prompted by concern for pi-
lot and motorist safety.

“I have been concerned for some
time that a Navy jet aircraft will hit
a burro on a runway .and crash,”
said Capt. William B. Haff, center
commander, in a prepared state-
ment. ‘

.Need for Protection

“‘At night, there’s no Way that
burros can be seen either from the
air traffic control tower or by 3 pi-
lot. To protect the lives of our avia-
tors and million-dollar aircraft, I
felt the emergency reduction pro-
gram was essential.”

Adverse reaction to Haff’s deci-
sion to shoot the burros rather than
remove them was quick in coming.
Cleveland Amory, president of the
New York-based Fund for Animals,
described it as “cowardly. ” ,

“It is a particularly despicable
act, in my opinion,” said Amory in a
telephone interview. “The burro is
an inoffensive, extremely brave,
decent, extremely philosophic ani-
mal.

Grand Canyon Project

“When they (the Navy) knew
our back was turned, they took this
opportunity to do this dastardly
thing without any previous an-
nouncement. . . . When it comes
down to it, they just saw the chance,
knowing that there would be an
outcry if it had been announced in
advance.”

Amory’s group has been involved
in removing and finding homes for

* burros lifted from the floor of the

Grand Canyon in Arizona.
Please see BURROS, Page 22

22 Part l/Tuesday, March 10, 1931 at

. BURROS: 381 Killed by Shooters

Continued from Third Page

Asked why the China Lake burro
kill had not been announced in ad-
vance, Vet Payne, the center’s pub-
lic affairs officer, paused, then re-
plied, “I prefer not to answer that
question.”

The weekend operation centered
on 275 square miles of the center’s
1712-square-mile reservation, lo-
cated. about 155 miles northeast of
Los Angeles. China Lake is the Na-
vy’s largest research and develop-
ment facility.

Two professional marksmen, su-
pervised by Dr. Steven Caruthers,
an Arizona animal population spe-

cialist from Flagstaff, Ariz.’

searched the emergency reduction
area in helicopters.

.When burros were spotted,
Payne said, the helicopters would
land, and the riflemen would get as
close as possible with high -powered
riﬂes before firing. The carcasses
were left where they fell.

Biologists who examined the fal-
len burros found most of them had
been in poor health before they
were shot. suffering from hunger
and, in some cases, venereal dis-
ease, Payne said.

He said the reduction program is

being evaluated and suggested that
it is conceivable that another opera-
tion might be necessary in the fu-
ture if other burros drift into the
area. A survey last July located
about 2,225 burros on the reserva-
tion. -
“We’re not aiming at a (body)
count of burros but to purge the
area around the airfield and other
active project areas at the center,”
Payne said.

Last September, a Navy enlisted
man was severely injured when his
motorcycle struck a burro on a road
at night near Armitage Airfield at
the center.

The burros destroyed over the
weekend had moved into an area
from which the US. Bureau of Land
Management had removed 258 bur-
ros during the last 10 months.

Cost Called a Factor

According to Payne, an incidental
factor in shooting the burros rather
than removing them was the cost.
He pointed out that the BLM’s re-
moval program had cost $69,600.
compared to about $3,500 for shoot-
ing 381 of them.

In Riverside, Pete Palmer public

affairs officer for the Bureau of
Land Management, said the BLM’s
burro adoption program is “ex—
tremely successful but it is an in-
credible expense.”

After burros are removed from
the Mojave Desert, they are taken to
Camp Pendleton, where they are
fed, examined and offered for adop-
tion. .

“We’ve gotten over 1,500 appli-
Cations for the animals,” she said.
“We’re sending animals to the
satellite adoption centers. A load of
76 left today for Florida from Camp
Pendleton.

“Throughout a four-year period,
we have adopted out approximately
1,000 burros from the East Mojave."

Wild horses and burros on public
lands are protected by a federal act
passed in 1971, but military reser-
vations, such as this center, are not
covered by the law.

 




._

 

 

 

Energy and Environmqu
Legal Opinion Backs Aerial Spraying

Agricultural officials have the
authority to overrride local ordi-
nances and spray Malathion from
airplanes onto Mediterranean fruit
ﬂies, the state attorney general’s
office said in an opinion issued in
anticipation of a court fight between
the state Department of Food and
Agriculture and the city of Sunny-

vale. The Northern California city .

passed an ordinance earlier in the
week banning any pesticide spray-
esman sai the Agricult

bility remains that no aerial spray-
ing will be necessary since no fruit
flies have been seen in Santa Clara
County since Jan. 22, and none in.
Alameda County since last Novem-
her.

A six- month suspe
was imposed by a J apane
a Newfoundland man arre
January for alle
600 dolphins that were
tered in Japan, according to _a
Greenpeace Foundation official in
San Francisco. Patrick , 35. re-

N .a/M WW0 ‘

,/

._. '/‘

.x
' N.

portedly swam into Futo Harbor on
Dec. 22 and untied nets holding the
dolphins. A Greenpeace official said
Wall was arrested Jan. 15 for ob-
structing business. Fishermen esti—
$153083 the loss of the 150 dolphins at

Washington clams caught on the
coast of Marin and Sonoma counties
may contain poisons that cause pa-"
ralysis, according to warnings?
issued in Sacramento by the De 1
partment of Health Services. Har-
vesters are advised to discard the
necks and dark meat of the clams.
where the toxin is concentrated,
and eat only the white meat. "‘

Complaining about a possible in-
crease in “acid rain,” the Canadian
province of Ontario asked the U.S_.~*
Environmental Protection Agency
to hold down emissions from '18‘
power plants. The Canadians want
the EPA to reject an appeal for re -*-
laxed air standards that could re-
lease an additional 660,000 tons of ‘
sulfur dioxide annually from coal- '
fired plants in Ohio, Michigan, Indi- -
ana, Illinois, West Virginia and
Tennessee.

(W V
§//3’§/'

 




THE ATLANTA CONSTITUTION

For I 12 lears the South’ 3 Standard IVewspaper

 

James M. ('01:. Chairman 1950-1957-Jame.< M. Cox Jr. (.‘hairman 1957-19; 4

Tom W'ood

P resident

Jim Minter ..
Executive Editor

Hal Gulliver
Editor

John Schaffner
Managing Editor

 

PAGE 4-A. MONDAY. MARCH 30, 198 l.

A Sick ‘Sport’

One of the most inhumaneand gruesome
scenes imaginable is adult‘men‘ and women,
and even children, sitting on bleachers de~
lightfully Cheering on two animals to defeat
each other in a death fight. The blood
“sports” of dogfighting and cockfighting
must be stopped in Georgia.

It is sickening to think about the kind of
people who would sit around to watch such.
vicious acts. The fights also show the dark
side of "human conditions among a certain.
segment of this state’s popluation. Both

sports are illegal but for some reason their ‘

popularity, especially dogfighting, is on the
rise. .

Even more disturbing is the fact that
Georgia is now among the national leaders in
dogfighting popularity. Just last week, GBI

agents raided a Richmond County barn in -

the middle of a dogfighting event. Some 15
pit bulldogs, bloodied and mangled from
fighting, were found at the scene.

Out of the crowd of about 100, 18 peeple

from five states were arrested. The raid also‘

resulted in the seizure of nearly $40,000 in
cash, 50 pistols, seven cases of untaxed beer

and liquor, 15 automobiles and anunspeci-‘ '

‘ fied amount of marijuana, cocaine and vari-
ous pills.

That gives some idea of the caliber of
pe0ple Who watch dogfights. It is disgusting
to think that some of these pe0ple even had
their children present -- not only watching
the horrible fights -- but in the midst of
drugs and gambling.

While dogfights are currently prohibited
' in Georgia under animal-cruelty statutes,
violations are punishable only as a misde-
meanor offense. Rep. Mike Padgett of
Augusta has introduced a bill that would

make it a felony to fight dogs for sporting
purposes. The bill also would make it a
felony to bet on dogfights.

This bill could be the knockout punch it
will take to eliminate dogfighting in Georgia.
The General Assembly should give the meas-
ure priority when it meets again. The bill
should also include cockfighting. There is no
room for such senseless and cruel actions in
this state.

 




Gene Tharpe

 

0.0.0

Till. ATLANTA CONSTITUTION. Mom. March 30. 198] . . . 5“

 

Stop Dogfighting In Georgia, Nation

Satan surely has reserved a special
scorching place in Hell for those peOple
who enjoy dogfighting.

The papers last
week reported on
a raid by state
and local police
on a dogfight in a
rural barn about
14 miles south-
west of Augusta.

More than 100

men and women

and small chil-

dren were in at»

tendance and the .?--=a~- '-' ‘ '
police arrested 18 persons. The raid also
resulted in the seizure of nearly $40. 000
in cash, 50 pistols, other weapons, illegal
liquor and unspecified amounts of mari-
juana, cocaine and pills.

“They (the adults at the dogfighti,”
wrote a reporter who went with the po.
lice on the raid, “brought the kids, some
less (than 5 years old, and they sat in a
barn, drank and cheered, and ate barbe-
cue while blood flowed freely from . .
dogs trying with every ounce of their
strength to kill each other. . .

“A white pit bull was still in the fight-

ing pit. . . . The dog seemed nearly
oblivious to the activity around her. .She
listed slightly to one side, but adrenalin
and her ‘gameness' kept her standing.
deSpite the blood flowing from a deep
bite on her snout. Her once-white coat
was stained with blood all'the way to her
hindquarters" he wrote.

Dogs are, of course, among the most
savage fighters of all animals by natural
instinct. But the human dogfighters who
organize and attend and bet on dogfights
are among the most cruel savages in all

creation. These people are among the-

vilest of anything that walks or flies or
swims or crawls the Earth.

Georgia, to our great shame. is one of
the centers of dogfighting. The Humane
Society of the United States estimates
that 10,000 people nationwide are in-
volved in dogfighting. with about 2,500 of
these — or 25'percent — in Georgia.

‘ This is borne out by the fact that the

raid last week is not unique; there have
been others in recent years.

The reason Georgia is a center of dog-
fighting -— beyond the apparent fact that
we have lots of human savages here ——
is that the fights are, although illegal,
only misdemeanors. That is, about the

same thing as a traffic ticket.’ Those who
do it, and those who are caught, face lit.
tle legal threat. “Even if a misdemeanor
were carried to its maximum in such 3

~ case and the state court judge gave the

accused all he could,” said Richmond
County Sheriff J.B. Dykes, “it would
amount to only $100 to $200 in fines and
maybe 90 days in jail.”

Dykes, who took part in last weeks
raid, said he would ask the politically
powerful Georgia Sheriff Association to
sponsor a bill in the next legislature to
make dogfighting a felony in the state.
and association officials indicated they
would cooperate. Dogfighting is a felony

] in six states and it is virtually nonexist-

ent in those states. We must st0p it in
Georgia. Then, the nation.

Said one agent who infiltrated a dog.
fighting ring: “One has only to see a dog
tear another’s eye out. or to see a dog
straining to fulfill his master’s wish by
standing to fight on a broken or ripped
leg, to realize the terrible cruelty.”

Human dogfighters, again. are among
the most vile of the vile. They could be
compared to mad dogs. But that would
be libelous to both rabies and mad dogs.

 

 




 

 

QJCniieh ﬁfafes Ebenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

 

March 24, 1981

Mrs. J.C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia 30345

Dear Mrs. Yarbrough:

Thank you for your letter expressing your concerns about the
inhumane use of the steel jaw trap on our nation's wildlife. I

share your desire to protect our animals from any cruel
treatment.

The use, manufacture, and sale of the steel jaw trap varies
from state to state. I feel that this matter should be dealt
with at the state level according to each state's individual
needs, and not by the federal government. The usurpation of
state power by the federal government is a dangerous trend that

we should avoid. When proposing legislation on this issue, these
factors should not be overlooked.

Your taking the time to advise me of your concerns regarding
this issue is most appreciated. Please be assured that I support
the humane treatment and protection of our wildlife, and will
keep you informed of any developments.

Sincerely,

Md/z/

MACK MATTINGLY "
United States Senator

  




”Etnifeb .gﬁafes $enafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

November 1Q, 1980

Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
31u9 King Arthur Court, NE
Atlanta, Georgia 303H5

Dear Mrs. Yarbrough:

Thank you for your recent letter regarding trapping in
Georgia.

I can certainly understand your concerns, and believe that
most hunters and trappers are responsible sportsmen. However, I
am concerned with some of the inhumane methods that are still
being used today.

As you may know, 8. “25 has been introduced in the 96th
Congress to prohibit the use of steel leg-hold traps in the
United States; however, it would not ban all methods of trapping.

I appreciate receiving the benefit of your views on this
important matter, and I will certainly keep your concerns in mind
should this matter come to the floor of the Senate for debate.
Please continue to advise me on matters of interest and concern
to you.

Sincerely,

Sam Nunn

 




DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS AEROSPACE MEDICAL DIVISION (AFSC)
BROOKS AIR FORCE BASE. TEXAS 78235

March 25 , 1981

Mrs . LC . Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

Dear Mrs. Yarbrough,

The letter you wrote to the Secretary of Defense has been referred to me for a
reply. We have seen the article to which you referred. Unfortunately, the
article is very misleading.

I can assure you that we are not torturing or mistreating our monkeys . we have a
staff of veterinarians to care for them and insure they are treated humanely. By
regulation, we must acquire, transport, house, handle, care for and use

animals in accordance with strict rules, regulations and standards established and
monitored by other federal agencies .

The experiments we conduct are not useless . They are, in fact, vital to national
defense. Through them we have been able to develop defensive equipment that

will allow men and women in the U.S . Armed Forces to survive in a modern warf re
environment. The protection of American lives is at stake.

Sincerely

W M
SALVATORE I MMO

Major, USAF
Director of Public Affairs

 




March 9, 1981

Rep. Jack Irvin
State Capitol
Atlanta, Ga.

Dear Mr. Irvin:

Here is one Ga. resident who heartily
disapproves of your amendment which
would give free rein to the use of live
raccoons in ”field trials” for dogs.

I cannot appeal to your sense of justice
or humanibg because obviously you would
not know what I was talking about.

Georgia has a long ways to go before it
can be called a truly civilized and car-
ing state. The Ga. legislature showed
its disregard for the feelings of animals
when it voted against the abolishment of
the steel, leghold trap.

But thank God, Mr. Irvin, the young
people of today are more feeling, and

I firmly believe the day is not too far
distant when we shall see a truly humane
and caring state, when your type of
representative will simply never be voted
into office.

Sincerely,

(Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough)

P.S. Please don't bother to answer.

cc: Joe Burton

1 HR ATLANTA (:(lNSTlTlTIUV. “an. “arch 9. Will . 5-‘K

 

Gene Thorpe

New Babies Threat

Hold it! Some of the boys over at the General Assembly
who fit right in there with the steel-leghold trappers, cock-figh-
ers, dog-fighters and beanbaiters are trying to slip
us. But this time, the potential danger as}, 3.
extends far beyond animal cruelty. It §€§'_'I.g"2.'
threatens death to humans: RABIES.

Rep. Jack Irvin. of Baldwin and
District 10 in northeast Georgia. is spon—
soring an amendment to the trapper and
fur dealers act of 1977 (atrocious legis~
Iation itself) which would allow captive
raccoons to be used for conducting
“field trials” As proposed, the amend-
ment would allow persons owning 50
acres of land or more to “take and hold 3;
from said land a maximum of four rac- ” '
coons for the purposes of conducting field t
permit shall be required for the holding of such raccoons."

Some folks will say this is OK because the landowner will
be catching the raccoons on his own land, and a man has the
rightto train his own hunting dogs. Now, there are good moral
arguments against this -— especially by those of us who grew
up in the country and know what “field trials" for coon hounds
entail - but let’s deal only with the terrifying danger of such a
law, were it passed: RABIES.

During 1980, there were 253 animal rabies cases from 82
of Georgia’s 159 counties; of the 253 cases, 209 of them. 83 per-
cent, were in raccoons. In the past decade, the spread of rabies
among subsceptible wilder in Georgia has slowly spread from
north to south. Last year, rabies was found in five new coun-
ties: Clarke, Wilkes, Coweta, Heard and Webster, one rabid
raccoon was found in a suburban area of north Atlanta.

In a recent letter to Rep. Irvin. the director of Fulton
County Animal Control, Robert L. Fisher, wrote: “As an agency
responsible for rabies control, this amendment causes us great
concern. The Rabies Control Manual, published by the Georgia
Department of Human Resources. states. ‘the time that rabies
virus may be excreted in the saliva of these animals cannot be
predicted.’ . . .

“In view of the inability to detect rabies in raccoons with-
out a laboratory test and the high incidence of the disease in
this species, use of raccoons in ‘field trials’ would pose an
unwarranted health hazard to the citizens of this state. Consid-
ering the number of dogs involved in ‘field trials’ that could
likely come in-contact with a rabid raccoon and then spread
the disease to other animals and counties when they returned
home presents a danger that persons involved in rabies control
would not care to contemplate.”

Current Georgia law stipulates that no wild animals can
be kept by individuals without permits issued by the Depart-
ment of Natural Resources. The prime reason for such a law is
protection of the public health. In the case of rabies, the only
certain way to determine if an animal has rabies (in case it has
bitten some person or a domestic animal. such as a dog) is for
the biting animal to be “sacrificed” and tested in public labora-
tories. Without permits — such as would be the case with the
raccoons for “field trials” — there is no way for the state
always to ensure such testing should the need arise.

Also, there are many more raccoons in south Georgia than
in north Georgia. Thoseof us who are suspicious tend to think
that, just maybe, despite the wording of the law, some persons
wanting four raccoons in north Georgia for “field trials” might
be tempted to visit south Georgia for trapping raccoons to take
back to north Georgia. And rabies is far more common among
south Georgia raccoons.

Finally: In 1980, there were 95 humans in Georgia who
had to take antirabies treatment because they had been ex-
posed to rabies. But they knew they had been exposed and so
took the shots. One last, chilling fact: Of persons exposed to
rabies and who for some reason (usually because they didn’t
know the biting animal was rabid) did not take antirabies shots,
only two -— some say only one —- have ever survived the “gone
crazy” disease.

 

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

March 9, 198l

Honorable Sam Nunn
Senator from Georgia
Senate Office Building
Wash., D. C. 20510

Dear Sam:

Another new year, another new Congress - and from what I am able
to determine from reading the papers, they don't sound like they
are too concerned about the treatment of animals: I hope I am
wrong .

Please read the enclosed. I am sick to death of reading about
the terrible mi streatment of our animals. I say "our" because
they share the same planet with us, and they also'have rights.
Of course, man has taken his own sweet time to ensure that they
do have rights. And one of them is most certainly the right to
be treated in a humane manner at all times. There is just no
excuse for the abominable and callous treatment these poor small
animals received as stated in the enclosed report.

When is man's inhumanity going to stop? When is something really
gone to be done to see that situations like the enclosed do NOT
HAPPEN AGAIN? I am vehemently against the selling of horses for.
human consumption overseas or anywhere else, and I believe the
government should pass laws to forbid this treatment of horses
who have served man so well and so willingly. Surely they deserve .
more than to be eaten. There is a constant stream of reports of'
thoroughbreds being stolen and sold overseas fOr human consumption.
The government could do something about it - why doesn't it?

The people responsible for the shipment of the ponies described in
this report should go to jail for a good long time. That they
should be getting fat on the misery and death of dumb animals is
disgusting . I find it difficult to refer to these people as
humans, but they certainly cannot be classed with the animals
either.

What can be done to prevent such situations?

Sincerely,

. ' GMrs. J. C. Yarbrough)
cc: Honorable M;.Mattingly, Elliott B. Levitas, G. William
Whitehurst

P.S. Please send me a list of the members of the Cabinet -

Agriculture Sec., etc._ .

 




', x / ‘ /i ‘ , ‘ ,

PDNIES DIE FOR PROFIT ~- ‘ f ~‘

- 3‘77- /“

’ a 1’. 7‘
. , . . ‘I '1 ‘
;‘-.}§J' ( . ‘I ,J /, f, '1 ‘ L. 3'
" "(to a, I. l i . 00/ .
_ . .. ‘5 ‘ ¢
.- , .1» ’

 

The trip began in Jaspar, Florida with eighty-five
ponies and yearlings packed tightly into an open-slatted ‘ ~
double-decker tractor trailer. After travelling up the
Eastern seaboard in sub-zero weather, without food or
water, their journey finally ended. It ended in a small
upstate New York village, Frontier Town, when police
stopped the truck. A quick check of the ponies through
the slats revealed blood and bones, ponies down, tram-
pled and dead and even one pony that had frozen to
death. The real horror was not revealed until the truck
was impounded and the remaining ponies removed
from the truck.

I
.V'
p.

t.

o
u

35' ,

 

 

Dr. Robert A. L0pez, an AHPA advisor and West-
port, New York veterinarian who is president of the
North Country SPCA, was called to the scene and
directed the unloading operation. Many of the ponies,
confined 30 hours in the open air truck in freezing
weather, were too weak to walk off the truck. Four of
the survivors were so horribly mutilated with eyes
ripped out, broken bones protruding from their'bodies This pom/,5 right eye was gauged out during ride on a
and smashed heads that they had to be put down. Five death Huck photo courtesy of Valley News photo,
horses were found dead, trampled. by M. 8. Allen.

.34 g
X
'i

-\

 

 

 

The eighty-five ponies had been crammed tightly into a rig designed to tranSport no more than 40 to 50
horses. No bedding nor stalls were provided and the ponies stood on cold metal flooring. It was so tight that .
the ponies could not move at all, and many of them grew so weak during the long, cold journey that they
simply collapsed. One pony was found frozen to death, blood caked to his swollen, trampled body.

The ponies were headed for slaughter in Quebec City, Canada. Because of the abominable conditions of
the ponies, many of which were suffering from distemper, Canadian officials denied the truck entry into
Canada. The horses were purchased in Florida and North Carolina by Perfecta International of Jasper, Florida
and Leonard Arrington of Moultrie, Georgia. The drivers of the truck were arrested by New York State police.
They pleaded guilty to charges of carrying animals in a cruel manner and received $300.00 fines each.

The remaining sixty-one survivors of this atrocity are presently guarantined at a private corral in Ticon-
deroga, New York. Their fate is unknown. Both AHPA and Dr. LOpez demand that these ponies regain their
health and be granted good homes. Dr. LOpez has placed a lien on the ponies until his bill is paid. Hopefully
the owners will determine that his bill is too high, and will allow Dr. L0pez to keep the ponies. This could be
the only happy ending to this horrible and gruesome story.

 

 

We urge all our members throughout the country to write their Senators and Congressman —- demanding
that the federal government enact minimum humane standards for all horses going to slaughter. All Congress-
men may be addressed: c/o House of Representatives, Washington, DC. 20515. All Senators may be ad-
dressed: c/o United States Senate, Washington, DC 20510.

 




    
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
      
     
   
   
   
    
      
   
 
 
   

Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Amlanta, Ga. 30345

March 11, 1981

Secretary of Defense
Defense Department
Washington, D. C. 20301

Dear Sir:

Have just received and read myAGU magazine for March, and I am really
sickened and disgusted by the story ”Monkeys Go To War”. It is
enough to turn any decent human being's stomache upside down. That
so-called human beings could subject animals to such treatment is be-
yond the understanding of a compassionate, humane-minded individual.

Who in the name of God ever gave man the right to act God? That is
just what he is doing when he subjects any animal to such treatment,
in the hope that it ”just might” help a human at some time in the
future. It is tragic that these experiments are not made a public

I record, so that all people would see and know what is really being done
to animals in our research laboratories. Can't you just hear the out-
cry and the demand that this be stopped at once, especially when it is
the taxgayers' money being furnished to carry on these hideous deeds.

India and Bangladesh both banned export of monkeys for ANY experimenta-
tion as a result of public and government outrage at the suffering in-
flicted on the monkeys they had exported to the U.S.. Malaysia has also
restricted exports. In addition, a U.S.-sponsored resolution before

the World Health.Assemb1y calling on monkey habitat countries to export
animals to western research facilities, was withdrawn when African
nations threatened to denounce military experimentation on monkeys on
the World Health Assembly floor. But, of course, you know all about this,

or your most certainly should.

I call for the halt to this utter disregard to the suffering of feeling
animals, and I thank and hail those countries which have called a halt
to furnishing these living creatures to the U.S. for a life of living

hell.

Sincerely,

 
 
  

(Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough)
P.S. Please read the enclosed "Three Myths of Vivisection”.




 

 

by Michael Anthony Giannelli

THREE MYTHS or thsncrmrt

GENERAL A $8 UMPTION 1

lixperiments on highly evolved animals have made very essential contributions to
medical and psychological science. They must be continued in their present
direction for our own best interest. .
ALTERNATIVE CONTENTION 1

The liistory'of vivisection compellingly shows that it has not helped people nearly
as much as it has actually retarded progress in the life sciences. In the medical
field. it has repeatedly been demonstratml that drug and surgical techniques de-
veloped on animals cannot be reliably applied to humans. lnrthe field of psychol-
ogy. most of what we've learned through animal experimentation is a lot about
how pigeons. mice. rats. cats. dogs. primates. and so forth behave in highly un-
natural conditions. usually while they are under extreme stress. Using the “animal
model” might have made more sense if we had concentrated on naturalistic
observation. Better alternatives to live animal experimentation have already been
introduced.

 

GENERAL ASSUMPTION 2 -

Animal experimentation is regulated so that it is conducted under humane con-
. . . . . . l . . ' -

dittons. Adequate consideration is given to the potential suffering of animal

subiecls.

AL TE RNA TI VE C ONTEN TI ON 2

There are no mandatory laws in .the US. (or elsewhere) concerning the use of
anesthesia and’or z-malgesics during an experiment itself. Both the federal “Animal
\\'ellare Act" (1976] and the American Psychological Association “Principles for
the care and use of animals" (1979] explicitly leave these decisions in the hands
of the investigators as long as they conform to commonly practiced professional
standards. Based on published reports. there is absolutely no doubt that “common
practice" permits withholding of pain control under severely traumatic condi-
tions. There are excellent reasons for concluding that only a small fraction of
research incorporates even minimal pain relief. We have definitely established
that animals are capable of suffering. We do not need to prove this again. Animals
are sentient beings. not experimental variables.

GENERAL A SSUMPTION 3

Antivisisectionists are anti-science sentimentalists who are more concerned about
the welfare of animals than about the welfare of people.

ALTERNATIVE CON TENTI ON 3

Antivivisectionists have included: Aristotle. Hippocrates. Leonardo Da Vinci.
Voltaire. Mark Twain. Albert Schweitzer. C. G. lung. Albert Einstein. Clare Booth
l..uce. George Bernard Shaw. Mahatma Chandi, and many others including nu-
merous physicians and scientists. Nobel Laureates among them. I I

 

Michael Anthony Giannelli is a doctoral candidate in clinical psychology at the University
of California at Los Angeles.

 

774% {Lyme - 7744144 / ﬂ/ 4’ /

 

 




Furs

US likely to extend
fur seal protocol

WASHINGTON (FNS) ——Af—
ter protracted delay, Congress
probably soon will vote to extend
the four-nation fur seal protocol
that bans open sea (pelagic) seal-
ing and restricts the take to a lim-
ited annual harvest on Alaska’s
Pribilof Islands.

Without this five-week take,
from which the US. emerges with
some 17,000 pelts, the domestic fur
industry would largely be without

 

such furs for processing into vari-
ous items of winter outerwear.
The Soviet Union, Canada
and Japan have approved the
four-year protocol extension,
which is pitched to management
and conservation of the fur seal
herd. When the treaty took effect
in 1912, the fur seal population to-
taled about 300,000; today, it has
risen to about 1,700,000. Stabiliza-
tion of the herd, say supporters of
the take, is due largely to consci—
entious monitoring and manage-
ment of the animal population.
The Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, however, is re—
ceiving objections from humane
and environmental groups, which
want the protocol scrapped and
the Alaska seal harvest ended.
They characterize the process as
“senseless killing” in which the
taxpayer, in effect, is “subsidiz-
ing the wearer of seal furs.”
Japan and Canada are un-

der heavy pressure from commer- ‘

cial fishing interests to resume
pelagic sealing because of alleged
damages to fishing operations by
the fur seals. And Carmen Blon-
din, U.S. commissioner to the
North Pacific Fur Seal Commis—

sion, warns such pelagic seal
hunting is likely if the treaty is not
kept in full force. '

Bills have been pending

since last year to end the interna-

tional agreement, but they have
little chance of being enacted.

The Reagan administration
strongly favors extending the seal
protocol on the grounds it has re—
sulted in successful management

.and protection of North Pacific

#2560? 1:34.?

: Accord lirnits take to
annual hunt in A

5:222?-

, -;- - -

.iﬁﬁz-m-z-g

 

laska

E‘:‘:‘:‘:':’ """ .4: ”$592+:

-.5.1.:S.5.3.1:1x . . .~ .....

fur seals and “healthy expansion”
of the seal stocks.

Also at stake is the econom-
ic welfare of 600 Pribilof islanders
who, says Sen. Frank Nurkowski
(R., Alaska), would be stripped of
their self-sufficiency and self-es-
teem if the annual harvest were
terminated.

The humane society, how-
ever, called on Congress to consid-
er a four-year phaseout of the
annual government-supervised
seal take while developing a “vi-
able economic base” for the Aleut
community that does not include
the hunt. On this basis, the group
offered limited support for the
protocol extension, “provided
steps are taken to see the hunt is
ended when the treaty extension
expires in 1985.”

Sen. Carl Levin (D., Mich. ),
sponsoring legislation to end the
seal kill (S. 2619), told the foreign
relations committee, “The Ameri-
can people object to seal killing.
They find the process offensive
and the product unacceptable.
They cannot understand why we
are using taxpayer dollars to sub-
sidize this bloddy business.”

— LLOYD SCHWARTZ

 




- .......—-.~...V—._,...,

 

    

7

if
#9
7
at

21W

W
7/ WM
* WWW ﬂ
WWW ”7777
’2?

\

76
.4 WW

\

\

(WWW

0/

I

\‘

/
377/
/

W

W”
{WWW/l

ﬂ

ggr m
cast) 5
Kiss-es a
sews
sW‘
\\~ ,3

A

(A

VP/‘m/M/
g 959d ‘ A N 333

I #1722
if

w
W

am 'laAoeJoW 'spooﬁ use” 3x91 01 BumgM BJGM Ar
pue ’Aes Slalnmelnuew ’saiel 188181Ul uﬁgq 01 pet
snooe eulooeq aAeu SJSAHQ sues/k 132' ueui a
-gsod BJOLU SQM lie; em ,10 pooul am Alugeuag

 

Continued from page one
1980-’81 fur season finished on a positive note, leaving re—
tailers optimistic about future business.

While most manufacturers said they will partici-
pate in next year’s fair, scheduled for March 20 to 24, they
voiced a number of changes they would like to see imple-
mented, including the following:

o A four—day fair instead of five.

. A schedule which would enable the Italians to par-
ticipate. This year the Milan Fur Fair and the New York
fair overlapped, and as a result there were few Italians at
the fair.

“We did not think we would make last year’s fig-
ures, but we did,” said Irving Himelfarb, president of the
HBA Fur Corp. “The strength of the dollar was working

"against us. As it is, I do not know whether we’ll show a

profit; it will depend on reorders. But we did book new ac-
counts, and American buyers we have never seen before
said they would be back to us in May.”

Himelfarb said the performance of the fair this year
would establish it as a permanent part of the international
trade. “I think people were surprised,” he commented. “I
would like to see the fair reduced to four days, though, be-

cause it would help concentrate the buying.”

Arthur Coopchik, president of Coopchik Furs, said
all the Americans he has talked to plan to return next
year. His own business, he said, was considerably better
than in the last two years.

“This was a critical year for the fair,” he said, add—
ing, “1980 was not good, but this time everybody is walk-
ing away with their head high. It would be even better if
we could coordinate this fair with the fairs of the Euro-
peans, however. Timing is so important.”

Coopchik said he was surprised by the strong atten-
dance of American buyers. “There were far more than we
expected,” he said. “We opened new accounts and we will
see new people in May.”

At QMB, Henry Block, president, said, “I think peo-
ple in general have a renewed sense of optimism. You
could feel it here on the floor. The strong dollar hurt us,
but we did quite a business with the Japanese. I also think
the Americans have gotten used to the higher interest
rates. The sense of apprehension we felt last year was not
here this time.”

Ted Leukas, president of Jan Originals, said his
sales were primarily to the Japanese. “Once you prove

eAuoe 353] am lesgo ueul 310w SleAnq eseueder pue
ueoglatuv 12m, SJBeddB 1g 'JSASMOH 'sagnunoo esoql
won SJaAnq 01 sales peuadwep oueJ; qaueld pue
mew UBLUJSE) eui isugeﬁe Jeuop 'S'n em }0 qlﬁuans
eqi 'peiaadxa Sloquqxa ueouewv sv 'peﬁlawe
spuan lemmas '1U8A8 Asap-9A” 8141 Buying

111111111 N. Y. furfair sales, lea ve U. s. makers smiling

 

WMWWWé $352235???

sa|es pies Slalnmeinueul ueoglawv ’128A 1321 won

punOJeumi eAgsgoap e Suing) — >IHOA MEN

 

.. wnasuog am 12 AepsaupaM pasop qong ’1395 m5
leuogleumiu' ueogleulv em 19 suogieioadxa paoedlno
DHBSNBLHOVHL 'V'l‘ [‘8

99/95 1.19; 1n; AN

 

 

 

yourself to them they remain loyal,” he said. “It is diffi-
cult to win their trust as customers, but when you do they
buy year after year.”

Ken Wagner, president of the fur fair committee,
said the fair drew approximately 20,000people this year.
Buyers from 28 countries including Haiti attended.

“We wanted this to be a worldwide event,” Wagner
said, “and it was important for us that the foreign buyers
and manufacturers felt welcome. I think we have done
that. We have also established the fair as a permanent
part of the fur picture.” '

Wagner, who is retiring as president of the commit—
tee after serving three years, suggested that the fur com-
mittee should hire a full-time employee to do most of what
he described as “the heavy work of the fair. It is too much
for somebody who is also operating his own company.”

Wagner also said the 'fair committee should estab—
lish regional seminars for manufacturers and retailers
across the country and in Europe. “One of the reasons we
had such a big turnout of Japanese buyers is that we went
there and made them know we wanted them to attend,” he
said. “We should do the same in Europe.”

 

 

L86l '92 HDHVW 'AVGSHHHJ. 'A'IIVG HVBM S.N3WON\

 

 




King. .15" "#4 q? H. .2" x
w e at s‘u t e :«r

Partly cloudy,

warmer

Tuesday.

Temperatures ranging from
"303 to 60$. Winds 6 to 12
mph.

Details: 70

Covers Dixie like the dew

Ivre tro
Edition

 

Vol. 99, No. 21

Monday evening, March 23, 1981

25 cents

 

 

They brought their kids, their money
and their liquor, ready for a night’s
entertainment of watching dogs kill
each other. The GBI arrived at 1 am.

 

18 arrested in aridnear Augusta

I sun Photos llv in

Fight promoter Lee J. Ward sits by tubs in which dogs are washed down

By HYDE’POST

. Journal Staff Writer .

HEPHZIBAH, Ga. - For some, it
was weekend entertainment for the
whole family. They brought the kids,
some less than 5 years old, and they sat
in a barn, drank and cheered, and ate
barbecue while blood flowed freely
from groups of dogs trying with every
ounce of their strength to kill each
other.

But Sunday, on a farm in this rural
community about ‘ 14 miles southwest of
Augusta, the evening’s program of six
dogfights was interrupted. .

Shortly before .1 a.m., about 18
Georgia Bureau of Investigation agents,
clad in camouflage fatigues and armed
with shotguns, walked quietly around
the edge of 'an Open field toward the
light and crowd noise coming from Lee
J. Ward’s. cow barn a quarter-mile
away. ~

The agents sprinted the last bit of
distance, then spread out and blocked
off both ends of the corrugated metal
building. The aluminum bleachers
resonated in a stampede of bodies.

Some left through the windows, but
were rounded up immediately, either by
GBI agents or- the Richmond County
sheriff’s deputies who assisted in the
rat . .
A white pit bull was still in the
fighting pit when agents first called on
those in the audience to put their hands
on their heads. The dog seemed nearly
oblivious to the activity around her. She
listed slightly to one side, but adrenalin
and her ‘gameness” kept her standing,
despite the blood flowing from a deep
bite on her snout. Her once-white coat
was stained with blood all the way to
her hindquarters. , , ‘

According to Frantz Dantzler, field
investigations director‘with the Humane
Societyof the United States in Washing-
ton, D.C., the white dog probably will .
survive. But at least one of nine other
dogs impounded was chewed up too
badly and probably will not live .more
than a couple of days, he said.

Those who paid $50 each for the
privilege of watching the fights were a

See DOGFIGHT, 12A

This injured female was in the pit when the GBI ar~
rived. Her once-white coat is covered with her own
blood and that of her opponent. ' -

 

 

 

The Associated Press "

WASHINGTON —— Coal industry and

 




Staff Photos—Billy Dos

Dogﬁghters and spectators stand with their hands on their heads after the bust; at right are cash and a gun the GB! confiscated

mixed lot. Some came in

Lincolns and Cadillacs,

wearing feathered cowboy
hats and high heels with
designer jeans, carrying
money clips fat with $1,000
bills. Others were bearded
and bear-like in bib over-
alls and “Cat” hats.

Most seemed to have
knives, and many carried
guns, which they quickly
dropped among the floor
litter when the G131 ar—
rived. Common to many
was an unwillingness to
discuss their attraction to
the sport with outsiders.
But one young woman
there with her boyfriend
offered a partial explana-
tion. “If you like a guy, you
learn to like his hobbies.
This is like a club.”

Just 18 of the more than
100 peOple who gathered
for the fights were ar-
rested, according to Sheriff
J.B. Dykes. He noted that
only Ward, the promoter
and pr0perty owner, were
from Richmond County, the
rest came from all over
Georgia and from at least
five other states.

Some were charged with
felony violations, such as
possession of cocaine and
commercial gambling. But
many were charged with
misdemeanor offenses:
marijuana possession,
carrying a concealed
weapon, selling unlicensed
beer and cruelty to ani-
mals-

Authorities conceded
Sunday that they invested a
lot of manpower to make,
in effect, a bunch of small-
crimes cases, but they said
they hoped that exposure of
what goes on at dogfights
would prompt legislators to
stiffen the laws against the
Sport.

“1 think dogfighting, or
even attending a dogfight,
should be a felony,” said
Mike Carothers, the GBI
case agent on the raid. “I
think anybody who could
see those animals, the
condition they were in,
would agree with me.”

Dantzler said the fights
Saturday night in Heph-
zibah are repeated some-
where in Georgia nearly
every cool-weather week of
the year. Dog owners do
not like to fight animals in'
the summer because the
heat sucks some of the bite
and vigor out of their per-
formance, Dantzler said.

He added that while
overall, ' Texas has the
greatest number of organ-
ized dogfights each year,
Georgia and Florida run a
close second.

Dantzler, who , has
traveled the country inves-

tigating organized dogfight- .

ing, offered a description of
events leading up to and
through a typical fight.

The first step, he said, is
the negotiation of a con-
tract between owners who
want to‘fight their animals.
The owners must agree to
a stake bet, a date for the
fight, and the sex and

weight of the dogs to fight.

A half-dozen contracts
were seized Sunday, for
winner-takeall fights rang-
ing from $150 to $500.

For four to six weeks

leading up to the fight,

Dantzler added, the dogs
are subjected to a condi-
tioning process known as
‘ta keep.”

For young pit bulls being
groomed for their first bat-
tle, the owner often will
pair his dog with a smaller
dog of some kind, or with a
cat tied up in a bag-It is a
sparring match with a

' most unkindly conclusion.

The idea, said the investi-
gator, is “to blood them.”
American pit bulls,
which stand about as tall
as a boxer, have the strong-
est jaws of any breed.
Doberman pinschers and
German shepherds, a1-

 

though larger, “wouldn’t '

last five minutes with a
good pit bull,” Dantzler
said.

He said the animals are
bred and trained for
“gameness,” an unﬂinching
willingness to keep on

i

i
l
t

l
g
i

g treated
’ agents that would tranqui-

fighting -—- to die for their 3
handlers if necessary. g
On the date of the fight, 3.
after convoys of fight en- ;
thusiasts are led in to the i
unpublicized fight site, the
owners wash one another’s '
dogs to be sure the ani-
mals’ coats have not been
with . chemical

lize or sicken their oppo-
.nents ,
’ “After washing,” said
Dantzler, “it is not uncom-
mon for an owner to pull
up a fold of the dog’s skin
:and taste it himself to be
isure no chemicals have
been used.”

The owners then take
custody of their own dogs

iagain and bring them to

ithe pit, usually a carpeted
affair about 20 feet square
with walls about three feet
high. The dogs, gripped be-

i

l

i

tween their owners’ legS, i

are faced into Opposite cop

ners of the pit until the .

i
i

referee calls out, “Face .

your dogs.”

This is the first time, ?

Dantzler said, that the
competing
each other. Then they let
them go, and the animals
charge, sometimes cOllid-
ing with such force that
they bounce off each other.
' In length, organized dog-
fights are not unlike
professional boxing. They
may last a few__minutes or

animals see .

 

 




It

 

several hours. There is lit-
tle barking -— the dogs
have their mouths too full.
The noise comes from the
crowd, which usually is in-
volved in vigorous side bet-
ting and equally vigorous
drinking.

If, during the fight, one
of the combatants shows
some sign of cowardice, a
whine perhaps, the referee
may call “a turn,” Dantzler
said. The dogs then are
separated. A piece of wood,
known as a “breaking
stick,” is usually needed to
gain sufficient leverage to
pry the jaws of one dog
from the flesh of its Oppo-
nent

Then the animals are re-
turned to their corners, and
after a quick wash, the
“cowardly” dog is given 10
seconds “to scratch.” —
that is, to cross the pit and
immediately attack the
other dog, which still is
being held by its owner.

If the tenacity test is
passed, the dogs are pried
apart again and then
released simultaneously
from their corners. The
fight continues until one
dog cannot or will not
scratch, according to Dant-
zler. .

The humane society field

director said it was his ex-
perience that “a lot of dogs
die from dogfighting, but
not necessarily in the pit.
Many die several days
after the fight, from in-
juries and from shock and
dehydration.” Owners fight
dehydrated dogs because
they bleed less, he ex-
plained.

Dantzler also said there
have been occasions when
an owner would shoot a
cowardly dog at the fight
scene, but he added that if
a dog has won previously

 

“f

or made a fair showing, the
owner usually will try to
nurse his animal back to

health -— to fight again, if

possible. At the fights
Saturday night, a veritable

'medicine chest of veteri-

nary drugs was seized.

If a 'dog wins three
fights, Dantzler said, it is
considered a champion and
often brings up to $750 in
stud fees. If a dog wins and
survives five fights, it is
declared a grand champion,
and stud fees go to four fig-
ures

Dantzler said it is
federal misdemeanor viola-
tion to transport dogs
across state lines for fight-

ing, but he said, there are .

no personnel assigned to
enforce the statute. As a

consequence, he also has

been pushing for stiffer
state laws.

Dantzler said that the
half-dozen states that have
enacted felony laws against
dogfighting, he said, the

Sport has diminished
greatly or disappeared
altogether.

 
   

Okla. agents
raid dogfight

United Press international

HAMMON, Okla. --
Oklahoma lawmen arrested
two men and confiscated
dogs, kennels, guns and
drugs after breaking up a
dogfight in Hammon, a
rural western Oklahoma
town, during the weekend.

Officers found about 65
people at the fight in Roger
Mills County late Saturday
night.

Oklahoma State Bureau
of Investigation spokesman
Paul Renfro said two men,
one from out of state, are
being held on gambling
charges related to dogfight-

ing.




Furs

1?“

Fur group ad budget
going to television

By J.A. TR ACHTENBERG

NEW YORK —— In a com-
plete departure from past promo-
tional activities, the American
,7 Fur Industry will invest its entire
advertising budget for the 1981-

,1982 season in a television come

mercial and the purchase of air
and cable time.

, Ken Wagner, chairman of
the AFI’s advertising committee,
said the AFI will commit nearly
$500, 000 for the production and
airing of a 30-second generic com—
mercial created by Leber Katz,
the AFI’ 5 advertising agency.
Last year, the AFI spent nearly
$400, 000 on its promotional efforts,
all of it in print.

Retailers willing to buy
their own local air time will be
able to use the commercial free,

Wagner added There will be

room for a ﬁve-second trailer at

the end of the commercial for 10-
' cal sales information.

As detailed by Ruth Woo-
lard, Leber Katz account supervi-
sor, the $80, 000 commercial will
go into production Sept. 12. It will
be seen in 11 major markets for a
six-week period starting Oct. 12.
The commercial will be aired 12
times a week during early fringe
morning and early fringe evening
viewing, a strategy designed to
reach both the housewife and the
working woman.

“Because so many man-
ufacturers and retailers are run-
ning their own print ads today, we
feel we should be concentrating on
television,” Woolard said. “We’ve
chosen our viewing dates to coin-
cide with peak consumer interest
in furs, coinciding with Columbus
and Thanksgiving Day sales.”

The commercial will stress
the glamorous aspects of furs and
will convey a twenties sense of el-
egance, Woolard continued. Five
women’s furs and one men’s fur
will be shown, although the selec-
tion of which furs will be used has
notyet been decided.

. After the commercial is
shot, the remaining $420,000 will
be spent on a small amount of tra—
de paper advertising, and spot TV
. buys ,in New York, Los Angeles,
Chicago, Dallas, Pittsburgh, San
Francisco, Philadelphia, Cleve-
land, Boston, Detroit and Wash-
ington.

Leber Katz also plans to

spend $18, 000 during a four-week
cable buy.

“We feel cable targets the
upbeat market we are interested
in, ” Woolard said. “We’re talking

about upscale consumers of im-
mediate acquisition”

Although Woolard said
there will not be any method of
measuring the cable audience
viewing the commercials, she
'said, “Cable time is inexpensive
in comparison to regular broad-
cast time. We have an idea from
private research what kind of au—
dience we’ll be reaching.”

The cable buy will cover 22
spots on Ted Turner’ 5 Cable News
Network, eight spots on “Tele-

. France” and eight spots on the

“English Channel,” on a weekly
basis. .

The success of the AFI pro-
]ect will depend on retailer re-

Wagner stressed
“Obviously, we can’t do a com-
plete job for $500,000,” he said.
“We’re getting the ball rolling.
Now the retailers across the coun-
try will have to support this pro-
gram in order for it to work. The
commercial is broad enough in
scope to run through the end of the
fur season.”

’In terms of actual response,
Wagner said manufacturers and
retailers will not see immediate
results. However, he said he at-
tributed much of the growth of the
fur industry during. the last nine
years to the print campaign the
AFI started in 1972.

“You have to create an
image about furs, and then main-
tain that image,” he said. “Tele-
vision will help us create a
positive view of furs in the minds
of the consumers.” 7

Jerry Wagner, president of
the AFI, said the approach is dif-
ferent in that no other apparel
group to his knowledge has spon-
sored a generic television com—
mercial.

“At the same time, such-
groups as the dairy industry. the
cotton industry and the diamond
industry have all invested in ge-
neric commercials, and they ap-
pear .to have been satisfied with
the results,” he said. “This is
right for us. We want to tell the
consumer to buy a fur rather than
another luxury item. We hope to
have maximum participation
from retailers.”

1861 12 .LSHDHV 'AVGSHHHL 'A'IIVC] HVBM S.N3WON\

 




 

 

 

y.“-
w

Mun-h 2:: l‘lﬁ‘ “my“

Spectators (above) Place Hands On Their Heads During Dogfight

Staff Photos—Billy Downs

Raid

Hephzibah ‘Real

P erturbed ’

Dogfight A

By Sam Hopkins
Constitution Staff Writer

HEPHZIBAH — The folks of this little
east Georgia town between Augusta and Fort
Gordon were in a state of shock, anger and
disbelief Monday over the big weekend dog-
fight controversy.

“I think it’s disgusting! It’s terrible! It’s
inhumane! I couldn't believe it,’ said Mrs. Pat
James, a young housewife.

“This is a Baptist town and we want to
keep it clean,” declared Hephzibah city Coun-
cilman T.S. Alley, a retired deputy sheriff.

What had the whole town upset was the
disclosure that dogfights had taken place out
at Lee Ward’s farm on Story Mill Road just
past the high school and the city limits. Early
Sunday morning — as more than 100 men,
women and children were enjoying watching
pit bulldogs tearing each other apart while
thousands of dollars were bet on the outcome
-— police suddenly swooped in and raided
Ward’s barn, arresting 18 persons and confis-
cating $40,000 in cash money.

“People here have gotten real perturbed
over this," said ceramics shop owner Henry

0" ".1! «mew .
{ﬁt‘fi-‘é": a

ii .

s_.-. .;. ”N

Stuff Photo—J.C. Lee

‘I think it’s disgusting! ....I couldn’t
believe it.”
—Mrs. Pat James

After

TTQStS

Staff Photo—.m. Leo

‘This is a Baptist town and we want to
keep itclean.’

—T.S. Alley

 

Kelly, talking about the brutality of forcing
dogs to fight each other, sometimes to the
death.

“I went to one cockfight in my life,”
Kelly recalled, “and I had to get up and walk
out. It was sickening. . . .

“I really and truly can’t understand
these people who would do this to dogs, and
enjoy watching them tear each other to
pieces.”

Kelly says he likes dogs and owns four
bird dogs. “Now I’ll hunt them,” he said, “but
I try to take care of them.” .

Although the pit bulldogs are trained by
their handlers to fight to the death, Kelly said
he once owned one that was “very gentle and
peaceful, basically, and a wonderful watch-
dog.”

Kelly said he used his pit bulldog to
round up stray cows and hogs that got loose
from the pen.

“That dog would chase down a hog and
catch him by the ear and hold him until you
got there," he said.

Kelly, who has lived in Hephzibah since
1955, said he had never heard of dogfights in

the area before.

“If humans want to fight,” Kelly said,
“well, they’ve got brains and they can decide
to do it if they want to. But to take a dumb
animal like a dog and make him fight, it’s
just not right.”

The weekend dogfights, which cost $50 a
spectator, apparently were well planned.
Spectators, many of them betting heavily, re-
portedly came from several states.

Hephzibah citizens were eager to empha-
size, so their town wouldn’t get a bad name,
that this was the first time there had ever
been anything like'an organized dogfight here.

“I’ve been here nine years and I know
everything going on in this town, and there’s
never been any dogfighting or cockfighting
here,” said Terry Johnston who runs the only
drugstore in town and is the former president
of the Richmond County School Board.

However, he did recall that some people
recently had asked him about getting some
hormones for dogs and chickens.

The druggist theorized that someone

See DOGS, Page 3-C

 

 




 

Continued From Page l-C

may have wanted some kind of drugs to
make pit bulldogs better able to cope in
a fierce battle with another dog.

Johnston, like some of the others in
town, found it difficult to believe that
Lee Ward, who runs a nursing home on
his farm for Veterans Administration pa-
tients, would have been involved with the
dogfights.

“He’s just a super guy,” Johnston said.
“He’s been a customer of mine for nine
years. But I didn’t know he likes dog-
fighting."

Ward, the alleged operator of the pit
ring at his barn, was charged with com-
mercial gambling and keeping a
gambling place, according to police.

Councilman Alley, who called the dog-
fighting “too brutal,” said of Ward, “He’s
a good boy. I don’t believe he’s the man.
I believe somebody else is behind that
dogfighting.”

Alley was also incensed about a state-
ment attributed to Richmond County
Sheriff J. B. Dykes, who said of the raid:

“You talk about redneck city - it was
_' just like a big picnic, with mothers and

fathers and children -— some of them
just 2 years old.”

#Dogs

 

“We’re not rednecks here in Heph-
zibah,” declared Alley. “If anybody’s a
redneck, the sheriff’s a redneck.”

Sheriff Dykes’ office assisted agents
with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation
in the raid.

Mrs. Deborah McFalls, a clerk in the
drugstore was among those shocked over
the dogfights.

“I think it’s terrible,” she said. “i
don’t see how they can sit there and
watch those dogs being torn up like that.
I just didn’t know such things went on
like that. And I can’t believe that they
had little children in there.”

Charles Blackman, an employee at the
Hephzibah post office, called the dog-
fights cruel.”

“A dog ought to be for a pet, or for
hunting,” he said.

Blackman added, “I couldn’t believe
Lee (Ward) would do anything like that.”

One local citizen, when asked if he
went to the weekend dogfight, replied, “I
was playing cards and drinking liquor, so
I couldn’t go.”

Another man, having heard about the
dogfight, commented, “People who gam-
ble wiil bet on anything — sunrise, sun-
set, it don’t make any difference.”

 




 

A t the Primate Research Insti-
tute near Alamogordo, NM,
baby chimpanzees sleep in cribs,
wear disposable diapers and are E
dressed in pink or blue clothes.

 

 

 

These chimpanzee toddlers
are valuable. Scientists
say tha t yearling chimps
are valued at a whopping
$12,000 to $15,000 apiece.

O EMPIRE MAGAZINE

September 13, I98]

 

O.

 




business on é
Mexico deser

'By NENA SINGLETON

ways bad business. Take the

case of “Big Al” (yes, that’s
his real name). For more than six
years, he has been part of a $1.5 mil-
lion “monkey business” that backers
say is sure to grow and even pay for
itself. 1 '

Actually, monkey business is a.
misnomer. Big A1 is a chimpanzee, a
member of the ape family, one of 170
chimps as well as 300 rhesus monkeys

“ MONKEY BUSINESS” isn’t al-

Photos from

at the Primate Research Institute in
southern New Mexico.

The research lab, connected with
New Mexico State University, Las
Cruces,.conducts some of the world’s
most significant ape research. Repro-
duction, birth control, growth and
sexual development, hazardous-sub-
stance testing —— all are specialties of
the institute that houses the largest
breeding colony of captive chimpan-
zees in the world.

——>

 

 

.In a few months, when these chimps
are a year old,“ they will be ready
to shed their dresses and nursery '
a ttire and start labora tory work.

 

New Mexico State University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Up to about age 3, the young
chimps develop faster and
have grea ter dexterity than
do human youngsters. These
chimps are 8 or .9 months old.

nod iaAuag at”

[861 '21 Joqwetdas 0

 




 

Playful “Big A1” is a 6&9-year-old
chimpanzee. He loves to show off
for visitors Paul Gonzales (below),
the chief animal-care supervisor,
says Big A1 has helped develop a
hepatitis vaccine. Big A] will con-
tinue to grow until age 18, perhaps
reaching 200 pounds. While Big A1
is docile, he is incredib] y strong.

 

 

 

 

MONKEY continued ,

With assistance from Big A1 and
his mates, scientists are on the verge
of discovering a new growth hor—
mone. The apes also have helped
make possible a new vaccine for so-
called “dirty-needle hepatitis.” And
without the apes, researchers might
not have discovered that human sex-
ual development doesn’t start with
puberty but starts in infancy. .

All this takes place on a remote
patch of desert near Alamogordo,
N.M., at the foot of the Sacramento
Mountains, neighboring the ghostly
beauty of White Sands National
Monument. The institute occupies a
building on an outer edge of Hollo—
man Air Force Base, an isolated out-
post which started space research
with chimpanzees in the 19505.

In the early 19705, space research
ended but biomedical research began
as Albany Medical College of New
York took over the institute. Long-
distance administration ended in
1980, however, when New Mexico
State University, an hour’s drive
away, stepped into the picture.

Originally studied for their psy-
chological reactions to space travel as
man launched the rocket race, the
chimps today are involved in studies
unique in the world _ .

“We are the only research center
studying toxicology in primates on a
large scale. And we are the only cen-
ter, to my lmowledge,'using chim—
panzees to study reproductive biolo-
gy to 'any extent,” says the institute
director, Bill Hobson, a Colorado na-
tive schooled at Colorado State Uni-
versity and Cornell University.

That interest in reproduction and
sexual development has brought
Hobson, an endocrinologist, to the
brink of discovering a new hormone
in the pituitary gland apparently
present only in chimps and man.
Hobson is collaborating with scien-
tists at the National Institutes of
Health, which also contribute about
$120,000 a year to Hobson‘s research.

The new hormone prompts changes
such as the growth of body hair and
muscles during pre-adolescence, ac-
cording to Hobson’s theory. It is all

——§

 

 




 

 

.
i
i
i;
r
E
!
\

g
r
2
1
I

l

 

Shortly after birth (Via Caesarean section), the sleepy baby, “Bea ux, ”
gets his first bottle in the nursery -— Where he Will spend his first year.

Big Al agreeably stretches out
one arm, in case his handler
wan ts to give him an injection.

 

Seen through the incubator
Window, Beaux appears to be
sleeping soundly after ha V-
ing his first bottled dinner.

gsod JOAUOO aql

 

[86l '21 mqwesdas 0

0

 




O EMPIRE MAGAZINE

 

 

Baby chimps, being fed by head nurse Tina Hoimlund, are taken

 

'2'

tom mothers at birth to be raised in a sterile environment

part of a little-known period of life
.called “adrenarche” when the adre-
nal glands secrete sexual enzymes
called androgens.

Hobson, speculating that an undis-
cOvered hormone in the pituitary
gland is the catalyst for adrenarche,
has been studying a dozen chimpan-
zees for nearly three years to conﬁrm
his theory. To conduct the experi-
ments, he removed the pea—sized pi-
tuitary in relatively simple surgery
through the apes’ nasal passages.
Then he divided the apes into two
groups, one group receiving injec-
tions of all known hormones to re-
place those no longer produced by pi-
tuitary glands, which theoretically
contain the mystery hormone.

Describing the results, Hobson uses
the characteristically conservative
language of science: So far, there is
“suggestive evidence." Since known

hormones don’t seem to stimulate

enough adrenal androgens to bring
on adrenarche, the evidence paints to
another hormone at work

Hobson is more expansive in mm-
menting on the impact of the find: A
new hormone “would put us in the
textbooks forever." Not only would it
contribute to basic research in pri-
mate reproductive biology, it may
provide clues to mysterious disorders
in human growth and sexual devel-
opment.

“Once We know What a hormone
does, we may be able to synthesize it
to solve abnormalities,” he says.

Chimpanzees play key» roles in the
research because they are the only
animals besides man to go through
adrenarche. Such research on human
subjects is out of the question.

Similarly, ape studies in Alamo-
gordo have been crucial to the devel—
opment and testing of hepatitis “B”
vaccine, expected to be on the market
this year. Proved 94 percent effective,
the vaccine will be given to people
with high risk of contracting the dis-
ease, such as hospital workers, drug
addicts, prison inmates, institutional-
ized populations and homosexuals.

#

 

o . September 13. 1981

d
A

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

O , EMPIRE MAGAZINE

September 13, 1981

5.” o

In Photo No. l, handlers ready ‘Mnnie”for
pre-Op (No. 2), Where the veterinarian, James
Bowen, positions a tongue-and—throat depressor
for anesthesia as the chimp is shaved for the
Caesarean section. In the third photo, Dr. Les
Wiley (left) and Gonzales deliver Minnie’s '
baby While anesthesia (tubes at lower righ t)
keepsmotberquiet-Mnutesafter birth, the
baby, named Bea ux, is whisked to the nursery
(Nos. 4 and 5) and the care of Ms. Holmlund.
Bea ux, soon dressed in nigh tgowm and socks,
is bedded down in an incubator to keep warm.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MONKEY manned

‘ Without apes, scientists might not
have made discoveries about human
sexual _ development that challenge
all previous assumptions.

Sexual development in humans,
science has long believed, is a gradual
process of maturation, resulting in
puberty after a decade or so.

Except, apparently it isn't. It seems
that almost immediately after a
chimpanzeee is born, the infant be-
gins physiological changes that seem
to bring it to the brink of puberty af-
ter one year.

“Then something happens to shut it
off. Years later, the changes begin
again and puberty starts,” Hobson
says.

-—-——>

 

 

 

 




‘Chimps can get up

on the erng side
of the bed, too’

MONKEY continued

The primates also areessential to
many other projects, such as saccha—

rin testing, cancer research and once-

a- year birth—control pills.

Ape research 13 a kind of luxury, as .

the researchers describe 'it. The
young chimpanzees are worth from
$12,000 to $15,000 each, and even the
Primate Research Institute produces
only about 30 yearlings annually to
be loaned to research centers such as
the National Institutes of Health and
the Center for Disease Control. Most
loan apes eventually are “recycled”
back to New Mexico State University,
where they become research subjects
in other studies

For these apes, research is a life-
style. The oldest ones, left over from

space-research days, still haven’t re- -

tired. Accustomed to being profes-
sional guinea pigs, most go along
with the routines good-naturedly,
even reaching their arms out through
their cages to assist scientists.

Their keepers deny the myth that
chimps turn mean after infancy. The
danger in handling an ape lies mostly
in its superhuman strength. By the
time they are 18 years old, they may
grow to 100 or 200 pounds in captivity.
Their intellect simply doesn't match
their brute muscle. They literally
don’t know their strength.

But they do know what they like.“

Researchers and keepers tell stories
about the apes spitting water great
distances at visitors piquing the pri-
mates with tourist stares.

Then there is another story about
“the day the chimps ran away." It
seems a couple of chimps got out of
their compound, crossed that moat
which used to surround the grounds
(because primates hate water) and
hotfooted it off into the desert. But
finding the miles of sand inhospit-
able, alive with prickly plants and

strange creeping things, the apes '

were back across the moat before
nightfall. They had become condi-
tioned to their small community
where individuals know each other
well

Says one handler: “They are just
like people — they can be very affec-
tionate, possessive, jealous, moody.
Chimps can get up on the wrong side
of the bed, too. " I

 

 

Dr. William Hobson, a Coloradan, is
the director of the Prima te Research

, Institute. He is a graduate of CSU.

 

While keepers tend to two young chimpanzees, other

chimns reach from the cages for food and attention.

 

 

 

Research chemist John Westland, who is involved in toxicological studies, prepares food patties
With varying levels ofsaccharin Other projects focus on such things as reproductive biology.

 

 

tSOd iaAuaa at”

IBM '21 mqwaidos 0

 




 

i " ' o I
‘ For Ammals,
QXNCEL PERRIN
Most Americans know the saying, “The grass is al-

ways greener on the other side of the fence." But most.

Americans are also at least two generations from the
farm:- To them it is only a saying, no more connected
with reality than needles in haystacks. Whereas actual-
ly it's a plain statement of fact about farm animals. All
of them. Every single cow, horse, sheep and goat I have
everknown has spent much of its time trying to figure
out ways to get grass on the other side of fences. They
think it grows greener over there.

Consider, for example, the lambs on my small Ver-
mont farm. A few years ago I decided to conserve ener-
gy—my own, plus fuel for the lawnmower—by turning
part of our lawn into a sheep pasture. Just a small pas-
ture, for two or three lambs to be bought in the spring

‘ and eaten in the fall. .

The barbed wire we use for cattle won’t keep sheep
in, so I got two rolls of stock fencing. This is impressive
stuff. It has a dozen horizontal strands, set close togeth-
er at the bottom (to keep animals from creeping
through, of course), and further apart at the top. Then
there’s vertical wire either every six inches or foot, de-
pending on which kind you get. »

I got the six-inch kind. I didn’t know much about rais-
ing lambs, but I did know two things: (1) they were sure
to want to creep through the fence, and (2) at a month
old they are very small. I figured it was worth the extra
cost to be sure they stayed on their side.

For a while it worked just fine. The lambs quietly nib-
bled grass in their pasture, and hardly even seemed to
see the lawn and the croquet balls on the other side.
Smart me, I thought. .

But when they got to be about three months old, trou-
ble started. The black lamb, who Was the biggest and
boldest of that first year’s three, discovered that he
could ram his head through the fence, about a foot up.
Then, because the hole he had rammed it through was
only 4% inches high and 6 inches wide, he would not be
able to get it back. He’d be stuck there, bleating wildly,
until some person went into the pasture, grabbed him by
the shoulders, and pulled him back inside.

When this had happened about a dozen times, - the
otheiﬂtwo lambs finally caught on. Caught on to what?
Not that if you push your head through a tightly w0ven

 

 

fence, you're likely to get caught. But that there was a

- way, after all, to reach that tantalizing green on the far

side. From then on it would happen at least once a day
that we would hear a whole chorus of bleats from the
pasture. We would go out and find all three lambs
trapped with their heads through the fence, looking like
three Puritans with their heads in the stocks. Eventual-
ly I had to buy a spool of soft wire and weave diagonals
all around the lower part of the fence. Later still I dis-
covered why there’s 12-inch spacing. It’s designed for
sheep. It has just enough give so that when they get
desperate they can wiggle their own heads back inside.
The next year I was late buying lambs, and I didn’t
want the fenced part of the lawn to get too high before

\

‘0.» / Name-arri,‘

as for People, Desire Is an Object That K 12

they arrived (Not just aesthetics, either. Tall grass gets
tough, and is hard on a lamb’s stomach.) A friend of
mine has a big horse and a small pasture, so I blithely
invited him to keep his horse at our place until’ the
lambs arrived.

From a horse’s point of view, a three-foot-high sheep
fence is not tall at all, so I was not surprised that the
horse spent most of the first day reaching over it to
graze our lawn. True, it was more trouble for less re-
ward than if he had eaten some of his own pasture, since
inside there was succulent May grass at least four
inches high, and outside there was identical grass, only
much shorter. But it had the charm of being (so the
horse thought) forbidden.

,4 a :53 ﬂ/VGE/i/fﬁ ”WW/25 , 53» an 297

ows No Bounds

By nightfall there was a three-foot strip all along the
edge of the lawn, neatly chewed down to the roots. That

was fine with me. The horse had had his fun, and I
would save two passes with the lawnmower the next ' '

time I mowed. . . . g .
But I was not prepared for what happened that night.

Having a quarter-acre of lush growth waiting inside the _

pasture. all that horse could think about was more lawn.

When we got up the next morning, the entire fenceline ..
facing the house was bowed outward at a 30—degree an- ' ,
gle. where the horse had leaned powerfuﬂy against it. ‘

and the strip of cropped lawn was now 4% feet wide. I
rode him home to his owner right after breakfast, and

' spent the next two hours fixing fence. ,
Sometimes, of course, a smart farmer can put this ani— .

mal delusion to good use. My neighbor Floyd Dexter

does regularly. Like all Vermont farmers, Floyd has to .
contend with a tricky climate. Our weather changes .

fast. You think you’re going to make hay while the sun

shines—and half an' hour later it's raining, and the hay ‘

gets spoiled. ,So like everybody else, Floyd gets his hay .
. baled and under cover as fast as possible. Sometimes

this means that a few bales aren’t quite dry enough, and .

then they develop a musty odor. Cows in the barn won’t
touch hay with a musty odor. Floyd knows just how to
handle that. He keeps one little section of fence in his
pasture that has only three strands of barbed wire, in-

stead of four. so the cows can get their heads through .

more easily. They he puts the musty hay outside.
Confronted with tasty grass on the inside, and maybe
a couple of bales of good hay in the feeder (what we call
bright hay), guess what the cows do. You’re right.
There they are in a long row, heads through the fence.
eagerly chomping musty hay. According to Floyd, who

thinks cows are able to reason (I believe it, too). they

reason something like this. That hay is out of reach be-
cause he doesn't want us to have it. Therefore it must be
exceptionally good. So even at the risk of tearing our
necks on this wire, let’s spend the rest of the day trying
to steal it. And they do. .

It often strikes me that theeating habits of farm ani-
mals and the mating habits of human beings have a re-
markable lot in common.

‘Noel Perrin, author of several books, including ”Sec- ’

and-Person Rural,” lives in Vermont.

 

.-..-.- .-.....-- _.




LOS ANGELES TIMES - August 26, 1981

Bloodless Bullﬁghts in theU.S.

'A Legal Loophole Allows Latin Phenomenon

By MICHAEL CAPALDI

Jose Ramon-Tirado stood alone on the wet sand. His

chin tilted upward and his chest jutted out.
“Huh!” he yelled. “Toro!” Twice he brought down
his muleta (cape) to goad the bull on. ' ‘ p
. The big black bull’s head swayed from side to side.

Then its hooves bit into the'sand. The bull’s head low- .

ered and its tail came up.

The bull’s charge sprayed bits of ground as it neared
the matador.

The matador, now on his toes, side-stepped the bull
and drew the muleta over the bull’s thick body.

“Ole! Ole!” The crowd cheered.

The hull rounded to charge again. It jerked up its
horns to make a vicious jab at the muleta. Ramon-Wir-
ado felt the bull slide against him.

He pivoted like a ballerina. The cape cut through '

the air. ~

“Ole! Ole!”

Now the bull turned and faced Ramon-Tirado,
watching, horns pointing at the matador. .

A young aspiring matador, a Chicano from Southern
California, watched from outside the ring: “This is a
great matador. He is a great man, famous all ove
S ain.” , ‘ .

pBut this was not the bullfighting Spain of Ernest
Hemingway. The mountains in the distance were the
San Bernardinos, sitting on the horizon above Pico
Rivera in Los Angeles 0.9.th ‘

For the first time since 1962, according to promo-

jiffMadeid?‘ Mexico City? No

ters, a series of bullfights has been held in Southern
California. The most recent event was 'at. the first
World Hispanic Fair and Exposition at the Pico Rivera
Sports Arena over the weekend.

The exhibitions were the Portuguese style of bull-
fight, also known as bloodless, because the animal,
aside from the harassment of the ring, is not harmed.
(However. there are no such restraints placed on the
charging bull, and it is not unusual for the human par-
ticipant in the battle to be painquy gored.) ~

Whether the bullfights will become a regular local
attraction depends on a number of factors.

Bloodless bullfights are frowned upon by the Los
Angeles County chapter of the Society for Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. The SPCA’s Sgt. Charles Reed
says that the society has a reluctantly permissive poli-
cy: “We don’t condone it. There’s always the possibili-
ty of injury to the bull and that’s what stops us. Like-
wise, we do not condone rodeo exhibitions."

Reed noted that if the fights are held in conjunction
with a religious feast day they are legal. According to
California law, while all forms of bullfighting are ille-
gal on most occasions, the bloodless type is permitted
when it is part of a traditional Hispanic religious festi—

val.

So, a loophole in the law allows for the occasional
presentation of a bullfight. And if the reaction of the
crowd was any indication, many Southern Californians
are happy about it. On Saturday night the crowd of 1,-

‘Please see BULLFIGHTS, Page 6

 

it's Pico Rivera, where bloodless bullﬁghting is in vogue.




MARSHA TRAEGER / Los Angeles Times

Young and old sit entranced by the bloodless
bullfights at World Hispanic Fair in Pico Rivera.

BULLFIGHTS: . The
Bloodless Variety

Continued from First Page
500 was on its feet cheering most of the time.

Most of the spectators were Spanish speaking. but
there was a broad spread of age groups represented, in-
cluding whole families. Fight judge Antonio Lopez par-
ticularly liked the family aspect:

“My own boy, 12 years old, loves the bullfights. It is
something we share. He has even faced a small bull in
Mexico.”

Because of the deep cultural chord bullfights strike in
the Hispanic community, promoters feel that there is a
market to develop in Southern California despite legal
and other difficulties.

One of those problems is the scarcity of fighting bulls
in the United States. All bulls are imported from Mexico
under tight restrictions.

In dealing with the Pico Rivera Sports Arena, at least,
there is some question as to which government agency
is responsible for issuing permits. Both the LA. County
and the Pico Rivera Animal Control offices denied hav-
ing jurisdiction over animal exhibitions at the Sports
Arena.

In Spain, South America and Mexico, bullfighting
usually leads to the injury of either the bull or the mata-
dor. The bull gores the man or the man kills the bull
with sharp prongs and a sword.

But since the 14th Century, the Portuguese have
spared the bulls sent to their arenas. The bullfighters
still carry swords for show, but they are notused to in-
jure the bulls. Only this Portuguese style is permitted in
the United States.

At last weekend’s exhibition, promoters Ruben Bo-
horquez and Linda Primanti staged eight bullfights.

According to contest judge Lopez, bullfight promoters
have had trouble planning even Portuguese style fights
in the United States. At first, authorities worried about
injuries to the bulls. But after film of similar Portuguese
events finally convinced state and federal officials that
the risks to the bull were minimal, Bohorquez and Pri-

9

manti were faced with a near embargo of fighting bulls
from Mexico.

“Export permits were always hard to get," says Lo-
pez. “The Mexican government wanted to make sure
that there were enough bulls to go around in Mexico,
first.” '

Only recently has Mexico allowed the consistent ex-
portation of the bulls.

Facilities adequate for the spectacle were rare north
of the border. Most rodeo arenas, for example, were too
large, and smaller stadiums are not in localities serving
large enough Hispanic populations. .

Before this series, the last bullfight attempted in Los
Angeles was shut down in 1962 when city inspectors
would not certify the hastily erected stands built for the
occasion. Requests for fight permits were also turned
down in 1980. .

So, altogether, there have been only eight legal US.
bullfight exhibitions in recent years, all of which have
been staged by Bohorquez and his crew.

But the tour has gone to some unlikely areas in the
country. Lopez cites Oklahoma, Arkansas, Buffalo, San
Francisco and Detroit.

The biggest obstacles, says Lopez, are the misconcep-
tions about bullfighting in America. Many potential ,
spectators believe that all types of bullfighting are ille-
gal. He also points out that some people assume that the
more humane Portuguese bouts are less exciting than

, the Mexican and Spanish styles.

However, when the Portuguese determined to make
the fights less bloody 600 years ago, they were only
partly successful. Every matador is still quite capable of
being gored or trampled to death by an angry bull.

While the young Los Angeles matador, Salvador
Araujo, watched the old master in the ring, he spoke
proudly:

“The real tradition is fighting your fear, not killing
the bull. You are trying to conquer the audience, and to
do that you must stand up to the bull.”

The art of the matadors remains intact. The judges
consider the style of the cape wielding, the effortless-
ness of the many standardized steps, pivots and ﬂour-
ishes of the bullfighter’s moves.

Bohorquez says that the effect is best compared to a
gymnast’s floor routine in that all movements empha—

Please see BULLFIGHTS, Page 7 '

 

 




I. " Hoe Annalee dimes

 

BULLFIGHTS

Continued from 6th Page,
size economy and fluidity of motion. In bullfighting the
7 essential moment comes just as the bull passes, and the
" r.» matador steps forward or shifts slightly away from him.
3 ’, There are several ways to evade the bull at this point.
The most dramatic include 180-degree pivots after
, which some matadors brazenly turn their backs on the
‘ “ bull while it rounds for the next charge.
Most matadors are assisted by four picadors who car-
; ry not red, but pink capes. Their job is to “break-in” the
bull. For the first three minutes they incite the bull to
A} charge them, while the matador sizes up the bull’s style.
3 After the matador is satisfied, he will call his appren~
j» tices off the floor and direct them to four niches in the
, abarrem, a circular wall surrounding the arena. For the
' next 10 minutes the matador must face the bull with lit—
' tle help.
, The closer he comes to the bull on each pass, the bet-
’ ter his score is. The more times he can make the bull
charge him, the better he can make the show. In fact, if
a bull is especially aggressive, and the matador can fight
the strong temptation to handle the situation by running
for cover, the audience is very likely to be pleased.

In bullfighting the final object is to win the spectator’s
admiration. The crowd signals its approval by waving
handkerchiefs, tossing hats into the pit and shouting the
familiar “Ole, Olel”. The wise judge usually follows their
dictates and awards a black handkerchief as a symbol of
victory. -

The emphasis on popular appeal was carried through
to the other events in the exposition. The traditional
blessing of the bulls was carried out by Father Roger
Luna of St. Mary’s Church in East Los Angeles.

The fair featured a Miss Hispanica beauty contest and
several folkloric bands; booths selling Colombian, El
Salvadoran, Mexican and Brazilian foods, as well as ta-
bles of ethnic and religious crafts. Spanish-speaking ra-
dio station KWKW broadcast live from the fair while
the newly formed all-Spanish cable service, GalaVision,
taped the bullfight and segments of the fair.

Lopez figures that the fair and bullfight are good for
the Spanish community’s sense of culture.

“I think that we’re giving these people back a little bit
of their past. All of this is very traditional and it makes
Spanish speaking people very proud. It also allows us to
share our traditions with non-Hispanic Americans in
Southern California." ,

And what happens to the bull? .

In America, the bull is lucky. At the end of a bout, a
far gate opens and a cow, trained to circle the bull and
draw it back into the corral. enters. The bull repairs with
the cow to the stables, where it lives to fight another
day.

Michael Capaldz’ is a Los Angeles free—lance writer.

 

 

 




i

th vari-
g cocaine .

uor and beer.
lier said -it_

g the persons

ttee

blic gathering,
Bossessin
q

BlaSt Continued from 16 .

I

 

I
taxed

investigator. I said, ‘That’s disgusting,’ and
Ralph agreed. , - . '
“ Yeah,’ he said, *they think we’re
awful because we fight dogs. They lie.’ ‘
“One of the .women I met there,
Peggy, was telling me she and her husband
had moved from their old home to Calla-

han because an investigator got her hus— -

band busted. , '
“I asked if she thought there might be

anybody like that at this fight because I'

didn’t want to get into trouble. She just
laughted and said, ‘Oh, honey, you never
can tell who might be sitting next to you.
But don’t worry. You let the men take care
of it. If they catch anybody, they’ll take
care of them. . ' '

“I met another guy named Bart who’d
been bragging a lot about his dog, Black-
jack. He was so proud of him he’d bred
him and produced two litters of pups be-
fore Blackjack had ever fought. The trou-
‘ ble was Blackjack quit in 10 minutes, and
‘Bgrt was just mortified. .

‘ “So he takes iBlackjack out to the
parking lot and blows his brains out. But

heard .him mention Blackjack or his
progeny again.

“Finally, Sue and Sundown were
matched and the fight lasted about 45
minutes. Sue lost, and then died: between
the pit and the car, which was parked
about 50 feet away. . .

“George and Randy weren’t too upset
- “Thank God, we only lost about 86,000,’
George said — but I was rather brought
down by the whole thing and wished I had-
n’t spent time playing with the dog. .

“There were two fights left, both in-
volving females, but I couldn’t pay much
attention because of what had happened to

Sue.

“We left the. fight site about 4:30.
Driving back, Jack started talking about
his new car and was telling he how he’d
run it into the ditch the week before to
keep from hitting a collie that ran out in
the road. _ -

“I thought he was kidding, but he was
completely serious. Here he’d just been to
a dogfight and he was telling me about ,
ditching a new car to keep from hitting a ‘

A spokesman at the Richmond County
sheriff’s office Monday night said that
ed has gone to ' court. The Georgia

none of the cases invoivin

8
Bureau of Investigation ear

Officers confiscated $40,000. about 50 guns would ask for a reduction of some of the

and some drugs when they raided the fight,
held in a barn and attended by more than-

The 18 people were charged wi
ous offenses, including commercial gam-
charges in order to protect the identity of

informants.

bling, keeping a gambling place, carrying
concealed weapons at a pu

and possessing an

possessing marijuana

100 people.

mg is In commi

 

Rep. Mike Padgett has introduced a
bill that would make dogfighting a felony,

The subcommittee was formed after
18 mph were arrested after a raid on a char
dogfight in Richmond County in March.

a misdemeanor, unless other charges. are

applicable.
but it is being held by the Judiciary Com-

mittee.

cause of involvement with it are usually
charged with cruelty to animals, which is

Georgia, meaning. persons

that doesn’t relieve the humiliation and
pain so he jumps in his car, drives home .
and blows away all 13 puppies. I never

og.
“I guess that and Sue are what I
remember most about that first fight.”

“a

more
i ses-

la

_ Kim Cash. aide to Rep. Howard Rai-
n , said the subcommittee has taken no
ac ion since holding hearings in May and

June. The subcommittee, led by Bainey,

 

THE ATLANTA JOURNAL - September 2, 1981

 

The Georgia House of Representatives
subcommittee investigating dogfighting in
Dogfighting itself is not a crime in

By RUSS DEVAULT
Journal Staff Writer
Georgia is not expected to take an

Bill against dogfight

ing laws relating to dogfighting should be

dogfighting in Georgia and whether exist-
changed.

action until after the current spec
will attempt to determine the extent of

sion ends.

(1 to fight

me

0

Proud owner: Dog tra

 




 

n _-

~55;

Dogfight tans watch the action in a picture taken _awoman witness who posed as a photographer-fan
THE ATLANTA JOURNAL - Sept. 1, 1981 ‘

By RUSS DeVAULT

m Ste" Writer
Q I adies and gentlemen, if there

are any humane society investi-

gators or law enforcement offi-
cers here tonight, we’d like for you to iden-
zif‘y yourselves. We’re about to have a dog-
' ht."

Those words. or a variation of such
braggadacio, signaled the beginning of
many of the Georgia dogfights Suzanne
Stephens witnessed in two years while
providing undercover reports to the Hu-
mane Society of the United States and the
Georgia Bureau of Investigation.

Here. compiled from the information
she furnished both agencies and based pri-
marily on the first Georgia fight she at-
tended. is her account of an afternoon and
night at a fight The names of individuals
have been changed, but locations and
hometowns referred to are the correct

“I had met some Georgia fight people
atafightoutsidethestateinthecourseof
my undercover investigation The Geor-
glanslwasintroducedtowereBillfrom
Albany and Jack from Jefferson.

“Since I'm a nice, friendly, harmless

Jack took an immediate liking to
me, and so did John, who’s active in Geor-
gia fights even though he lives in Monti-
cello. Fle. Jack gave me his home tele-

numher and when I called him
aboutaweekaftermeetinghim,heinvited
metoadogfightinSouthCarolinaand.
about three week later, to my first Geor-
nanm ,
“The fight, psunoted by Billy from

A humiliated owner shot his loser;

then he blasted the dog

’3 .13 pups

 

 

\ .

Vidalia and Jerry from Callahan, Fla, was
being held in Albany. I met Jack outside
Vidalia and rode with him in his new
Thunderbird.

“We got to a motel about 11-30 in the
afternoon and I met George, his wife,
Nancy, and George's fight partner, Randy.
George and Shirley were from Zebulon and
Randy from Meansville, which I thought
was a perfect hometown for somebody in
volved in dogfights.

A“GeorgeandRandywerematchinga
dos. Sue, - one they’d just pur-

chased for 83,500, with Edward’s dog, Sun-
down. Both dogs had won two fights, and
Sundown had killed the two dogs it fought
It‘llye-ha'eakmgkm ' their legs and then going for

and Randy figured the best
thingtodowasfindadogwithbiglegsso
that’s what they'd done Sue was a good
lighter but, like all pit bulls, was very
friendlywitbpeople.

“I made the mistake of interacting
withSuethatafternooninthemotelroom,
where'd they hung towelsonthemirrorsto
keepthedogfromattackingitsownre—
ﬂection. -

 

“We stayed around the motel until
about 5 and left for the preliminary check
site - they want to keep undesirables' out
- and then to the fight site. There were
about 200 people at this fight, but I’ve seen
crowds as large as 400 and as small as 80.

“They charge as much as 850 or 865
to get in some fights. but I'll say one thing
about these guys in the Southeast - they
never made me pay to get in because they
ﬁmeandlwas taking' pictures for

“Dogfighting is an expensive vice.
People told me - and what I saw proved
-thatyoucouldgotoafightandeasily
spend $1,000 over the weekend.

“Anyway, after eating the pre-ﬁght
meal of barbecue, beans and cole slaw, l
was walking around the parking lot when I
met Carl and Jean, who were peddling T-
shirts showing two dogs in combat.

“The fight people don’t like peeple
with cameras, but I got away with carry-

ing mine because I was going to take pic- ,

turesforoneofthedogmagazinessoCarl
and Jean asked me to take some pictures
for them. I traded them a roll of film that
had some pictures of their dogs on it for

 

two shirts. and then we went back insi:
about 7:30 for the first fight.

“There were nine matches on ti
card. The first fight matched Martin a:
his dog, Shaker, against Virgil and his dc.
Lollipop. Shaker won. I watched, but
sickened me, as usual, so I spent as mu:
time as I could after that meeting peer
and getting names and other information

“After a while it started getting cc
because this was an outside fight. A gent
man from Charleston, SC, offered me i
sleeping bag and some marijuana - the
are lots of drugs at most fights - and
started getting to know the South Carob:
set

“I got to know quite a few peop
pretty fast because I had come with son
important people. I was talking with or
of the promoters when they did that t
asking humane society investigators
stand up and I asked him if investigate
really would attend a fight.

“He said they would, that one trier
of his bad a friend he went to fights wi:
for two years without knowing he was a

. SeeBLAST.5

 

 




Elie Atlanta 201mm!

Section C

. Tuesday, September I, 1981

One risked

life to slot it

Dog fancier assumed alias
to document state duels

By RUSS DeVAULT .

Journal Staff Writer

Suzanne Stephens, a dog fancier all her life, started
going to dogfights about five years ago. It wasn’t long be
fore she was known in the secretive society of aliases and
clandestine meetings as an aficianado and amateur
photographer, one always willing to take a picture of a
man and his dog. .

“I became one of them,” she says. “I dressed like
them. I talked like them. I shared their interests. I was
one of them.” .

But not now. Today, she is another person in another
state because other undercover investigators alerted the
Humane Society of the United States to the possrbility she
might be killed to silence her. . g “

That possibility exists because Ms. Stephens was a
catalyst” in the March raid, of a dogfight in Georgia .3
Richmond County, according to Frantz Dantzler, the som-
ety’s national director of Field Services and Investigations
who Operates out of Washington; -. . ,

He, too, has lived with the threat of reprisal, but hes
the visible investigator, the man who goes along on raids
and is too well-known to attend a fight, perhaps too out-in-
the-Opeii to really fear for his safety. . . .

“Those things happen,” Dantzler says of intimatioris
violence might be used against Ms. Stephens. “But I dont
mean to seem unattached,” he adds. “She’s a very impor-
tant person to us. It does concern me.” ‘ .

Just for the record, it’s too late to eliminate‘her docu-
mented evidence of fights held almost weekly in Georgia.
Stephens, obviously not her real name, has told the hu-
mane society all she learned during two ' years of
attending Georgia dogfights. She has also prov1ded infor-
mation to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, and it was
when she appeared at a May hearing held by a Georgia
House subcommittee investigating dogfighting that her
cover was blown.

Neither she nor Dantzler expected pe0ple who had es-
corted her to fights to be at the hearing, but she star-
tlingly found herself face to face With Georgians who
' were just as startled to learn she wasn’t “Just a good old
girl” fascinated by pit bulls and dogfights.

-. "“Mo‘St ‘df them went gray..’wlien they saw me,” she
says. “One gave me a glare, but after the testimony, I
started taking pictures. -

“I figured if you’re going to go down, you might as

‘ well go down working.”

The extra effort wasn’t necessary. Ms. Stephens had
furnished the humane society with names and nicknames,
picﬁures taken at fights and detailed accounts of Georgia

ig ts.

She put together a list of places where fights are held
— in and around Augusta, Axson, Brunswick, Canton, Gai-
nesville, Jefferson, Perry, Quitman, Valdosta, Vidalia,
Waycross, Waynesville and along the Ohoopee River.

She put together a list of maple involved and their
hometowns -— Augusta, Baconton, Byron, Canton, Colum-
bus, Cartersville, Cumming, East Point, Elberton, Ellijay,
Ellenwood, Gainesville, Hephzibah, Jasper, Jefferson,
Thomaston, Vidalia, Waynesville, Whitesburg and Zebulon.

She included the nicknames used by many to avoid
open association with dogfighting — Irish Jerry, Jaycee
Shaw, Broadway Jack, R.E. Meansville, A. Brew and Pal-
metto Bob. .

They knew her, of course, but only in one of the dozen
or so guises she claims are her in repertoire. Meet her
twice —- in a motel room intended to give her anonymity
— and you can believe her.

She appears the first time as a blond woman in a red
face mask; the second time she is a petite brunette in a
black mask. The only similarity between the two is a cul-
tured voice that can turn syrupy Southern or brash New
Yorker.

She has little to say about herself, and she’s obviously
skilled in protecting her real identity - pictures she’s

taken arrive by mail with a typewritten list of fight sites,

nicknames of the people involved and their hometowns.

See FIGHTS, 5C

 

‘ - W... _IIII

 




 

She will say she “backed into my first
fight” while doing volunteer work for a hu-
mane society in another state. “We got a
call about an injured dog and I went out to
pick it up in my car,” she says. “I started
talking with the man who had it -— it was
a horribly mangled pit bull -— and it was.
n’t long before he Was showing me his
fighting dogs and I was saying I sure
would like to see a fight.”

That was five years ago. Soon Ms. Ste-

hens, involved in animal care and char-
ities all her adult life, was compiling infor-
mation for the humane society. After
attending - and telling the society about
fights in Alabama, Florida, Kentucky,
North Carolina, South Carolina and Ten-
nessee, she met and charmed some peOple
involved in dogfighting in Georgia.

She inveigled her way into their ranks,
becoming such a favorite she was given
two pit bulls, free admission to fights and
once helped select and prepare the site for
a fight.

“I helped locate the area to set up the
fight,” she says. “I helped set up the pit. I
stood guard while they went to get the
. pe0ple coming to the fight to make certain
no undesirables got in.”

There were moments of fear, though.
“The publisher of one dogfight magazine
was suspicious of me initially,” she says.
“Other investigators have had the same re-
sponse from him, and I didn’t know I was
going to meet him when .I did. I really
wasn’t prepared to face him because of his
reputation for spotting undercover agents.

“He got out of his truck and I was on
the other side. He looked me right in the
eyes and I felt my blood freeze. I knew he

knew who I was and what I was really
doing there; *

“Fortunately, 1 didn’t falter. ’Hey, Mr.

‘ so~and-so,’ I said, ‘I read your magazine all

the time.’ He was not receptive the first
time we met, but he was friendlier the sec-
ond time, and we got along after that.”

She quickly convinced most other peo-
ple she was “just a good Southern girl who
was no threat to them. I smiled a lot,” she
says. “I can be one of the friendliest peo-
ple you’ll ever meet.”

So friendly, in fact, that the
participants worried about her comfort. “I
was at one fight over in the Okefenokee
Swamp near Waycross,” she says, “and
they didn’t have any bleachers set up. I
was looking around for a place to sit and
two of these fighters, Bo from Macon and
Freddy from Orlando, proceeded to get a
rocking chair and drag it up to the pit for
me so I could get my photographs. I

thought that was very gentlemanly of 1

them, and I told them so.”

Her cover was a part-time job, one i,

that helped support her, and her talent as
a photographer won her friends. She con-
cealed her “great antipathy” toward dog-
fighters, but there were times unsuspecting
men were attracted to her.

“Near the end,” she says, “I used an
engagement ring to ward off the rednecks.
Finally, I had to get ‘married’ and some of
the guys gave me two pit bulls for a wed-
ding present.

“Killer and Cannibal were littermates
of puppies selling from $400 to $1,000, sol
was pretty impressed.

“I guess I could have stayed until
doomsday if I’d wanted to and hadn’t gone

., —av.s...d~u‘.- e ‘ﬁ v". . . — . »-~

to move -— we’d learned all there was to
know about Georgia fighting.”

She told the humane society and 631
there is more to dogfighting than the ille-
gal matching of one dog against another,
too. Ms. Stephens, who claims to have seen
regular use of drugs and illegal alcohol at
fights, says she witnessed such heavy bet-
ting she agrees with the 6131 contention
dogfighting “is one of the most organized
criminal elements in the state.”

“I’ve seen bets of as much as $25,000
on a number of occasions,” she says. “Bets
of $1,500 and 82,000 were very routine.”

It was, however, the fights themselves
that galled her most and helped prompt
her to go public with her story. “We’ve got

to the hearing,” she says. “But it was time >

to get the word out to the people that this
IS goxng on,” she says. “What happens to
the dogs is sickening, and the peOple them-
selves are sick. ‘

“It’s a vicarious proving of one’s self
for them,” she says. “After a fight, one dog
owner will say to the other, ‘He hit me
real bad. You’re a good fighter.’ It’s
inhumane, and it should be stopped.”

That concern, she contends, explains
her willingness to give up a normal life
and go undercover even if there is a de-
gree of risk. .

“I don’t like these pe0ple, what they 5
do and what they stand for,” she says, for
once losing control of her carefully modu-
lated voice. “Somebody has to st0p them.”

 

 




K

o .

VINELAND
TIMES
JOURNAL

illltllgiiilggrtilittlllllllll

..

July 2 , 1981

llilllilllil

{lilllllilliiilliillllil!

lllllillllllill!Illilllllllllllllillllllllllillllllll

A GREAT lMlTATOR — Charlie, an African Grey parrot, gets close to
Area COU [e Joan Burson (above). She and her husband brought the bird back
p from Africa. Charlie is able to pick up new words after only hearing
' them a few days and displays additional talents, such as imitating the
C I I - family poodle and singing. Below is “Buffy.” a two-year-old African

0 ac ts lion that also lives in Estell Manor with the Bursons.

. 7 (Times Journal photo by Joe Iaconelli)
Exotic Pe ts

By KATE WALL
ESTELL MANOR -- Louisia-
na natives Keith and Joan Bur-
_ son had a slight handicap when
they went house hunting here.

The state required that they

meet certain criteria - like lo-

catingwest of the Garden State
. Expressway. . .
1 Then they had to have state
9 and local officials inspect the
-f"40—by-40 foot compound they
jfhad built in their backyard at
Estell Manor.

Only then did the Department
of Environmental Protection
grant the Bursons a permit to

an exotic species.

Only then could they have
Buffy, their African lion,
shipped to her new compound,
which Keith says is more se-
cure than the Atlantic County
Jail in Mays Landing.

The pilot for Petroleum Heli-
- copters Inc. checked city ordi-
;, -~ nances and found there was a
law on the books prohibiting ex-
’- otic animals for commercial _
5‘ purposes. But Buffy is classi— .,
tied as a pet. _
(Continued on Page 17, Col. 3),;

ill!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIillllllllilllillllllllllIllllllllIIIIIIIllllillllliilllllllllllllllllll

 

 

‘1'»,

lllllI'llllilllllilillllllIiiiili1!!!!illlllllllllllIlllillllllllllIlliiilllllillll!llllllllilllliilllllllllllil

 

.. .._ .__... .M—H

 




 

\.

Area Couple Collects Exotic Pets

(Cuntinm-(I from Page 1)

“I checked into everything I
needed before I moved, I worked
with Trenton for four months,” he
explained. “I wanted to do every-
thing right.”

The two-year-old lion was
shipped to the family’s home in
Baton Rouge when she was only
six-weeks—old. She joined the Bur-
son household, which included
their two sons, until she reached
nine months of age.

But she had to share the indoor
living space with a French poodle
and a parrot that sings “Bridge
Over the River Kwaii.”

/

’1

\

During the months the cub was .

kept indoors, “Charlie,” the talk-
ing African Grey parrot, kept a
close eye on her.

“When Buffy was doing some-
thing wrong, maybe getting a little
rough with the dog, Charlie would
say, ‘No, Buffy, no,” Mrs. Burson
recalled.

After hearing the same word for
about three days, Charlie will pick
it up. She talks on the telephone,

imitates the poodle’s bark and

says hello and goodbye when peo-
ple enter or leave the room.

The six-year-old parrot is per-
ched in a large circular wrought-
iron cage that fills a comer of the
home.

There’s a reason why the bird is
named Charlie but referred to as
“she.” The sex of the African
Greys cannot be determined until
they’re about lO—years-old.

When the Bursons moved to Es—
tell Manor in August they left the
black bear that had shared a
swimrning pool With ‘Bijffy, the
couple’s third lion.

Bonnie was the first. She was ad-
vertised in a London newspaper
when the couple lived in England

in 1972. Burson worked f0r the
same company as a helicopter pi-
lot and commuted to Africa from
England every two weeks.

But Bonnie was given to a zoo-
logical company in London, which
found another home for her, when
it was time for the Bursons to re-
fun to the states.

Sampson was next in line. But
the family donated the African
black mane to the Bridgeton Zoo
when he was only a few months
old. Because he had such an ex-
ceptional temperament, he was
sent to a Pennsylvania zoo to be
used for promotion.

Buffy was acqu1red 1n the states

but her companion, Charlie, was

bought in Africa. The talking par-

rot had a rough time during its trip 1
to the U. S., suffering a broken leg; .

between London and New York.
Why the menagerie?

“I’ ve always been interested in \

animals,” Keith eXplained. “I was
born and raised 1n Nebraska and I
raised hawks and coyotes as a
boy.” ’

Buffy’s expected to live to be
about 25-years—old. In the wild, her
lifespan would be shortened to
about 15 years. An absence of
predators and a bounty of food ex-
tend her lifetime in captivity.

She will also'grow much larger
with the Bursons than she would in
the wild. She’s at 250 pounds now
and is expected to put on another
150.

Ten pounds 0f raw condemned

chickens from a processing plant "

are taken to her cage each day by
either Keith or Joan. They’re the
only people allowed inside the
fenced-in area.

A 13-foot high cyclone fence
shaded by hanging branches from
surrounding trees keep her from
anyone else.

In Louisiana, where the laws
were less stringent, she was allow-
ed outside for exercising or a swim
in the pool. In fact, when she was
younger, she’d take to the road
with the Bursons on vacation r- in
a motor home.

Keith explained the procedures
involved in acquiring an exotic
pet.

First you need to apply for a per-
mit. A thorough investigation,
which may take several months,

' follows. If you receive the- permit,

it only entitles you to purchase an
animal from a state and federally
licensed dealer. In the case of lion
cubs, you can only purchase one
that was captive born 1n the states.

’ The couple said some people

don’t realize once a cub is de-
clawed and has been raised in cap-
tivity a few months,_it cannot be
donated to a zoo.

“At four to five months old, zoos
will not touch them,” Keith said.

,r" Keith answered,
’/ (get into Bengals.”

(”'\,

“There’s an overabundance of ii.
ons right now. You can get one for
$100 from a wholesaler —— same
price as a German Shepherd.”

One of the principle reasons zoos
will not accept animals reared in
captivity is because 0f their tem-
perament .

“Buffy’ 5 been taught and disci-
plined not to fight, not to hurt, ”I
Mrs. Burson explained. “Lions in
zoos fight for their food. She would
have no “idea how to act around
them, they’d kill her.” '

When Buffy gets older, there
won’t be that much time for the
Bursons to spend with her. She’ll
be sleeping close to 20 hours a day.

The family has no intentions of
adding another lion to their fami-
ly, at least not while they’re in this
area. When another transfer
comes? «-
“We’d like to

/..—r

.. ”1., ,;w-nvmu..,_

 




 

SUNDAY PRESS ,
Atlantic City, N. J. 7/5/81

 

Watt’s rule looms over mountains

—‘
(f...'..‘ ‘L _
. ‘51::- .:'ﬂ‘_
. . ‘1 \ .‘0‘-.I .
-" - I...“ «HOF-
.. . . ,....-.‘...,,_
_ .... A ,.
‘ ‘3‘ - \w- : .
o a .
.“‘ . .\ '

 

By PHIL KERBY

Los Angeles Times Service

“Neither can his mindbe thought
to be in tune, whose words do jarre,
nor his reason in frame, whose sen-
tence is preposterous." , '

— Ben Jonson

 

When asked b a congressional com-
mittee whether
the nation’s resources for future genera-
tions, Secretary of the Interior James G.
Watt re lied:

“I 0 not know how many future
enerations we can count on before the
rd returns.” ”a

As" is his invariable custom, Watt had
it backward. The question is not how
many future generations we can count
on, but whether this generation will be a
faithful trustee of the inheritance . of
. future Americans. .

This strange man Watt wields enor-

mous power over the future. He runs the .

National Park Service. He runs the Bu-
reau of Land Management that covers
400 million acres. He runs the Bureau of
Reclamation that administers the huge
federal irrigation projects in the West.
He enforces the nation’s stri minin
laws and those that protect en angere
s ies and other Wildlife. He controls
t e mineral rights on millions of acres of
national forests, and oversees the devel-
Opment of offshore petroleum deposits
on the outer continental shelf.

Those vast res nsibilities might
humble the most se f-confident offic1al,
but not Watt. He has the confidence of a
fellow in a ward who isconvinced he is
Napoleon. “I speak in black-and-white
terms without much gray in my life,”
Watt told an interviewer. “I see prob«

e favored preserving.

 

 

 

 

pe0ple. I don’t
create complexity. I solve problems and
see things in simple terms.’

And, protected by the thick armor of
intellectual sim lic1ty, Watt has been
furiously active urin his few months in
power. He abolishe the department
agency charged with ac uiring addi-
tional federa park lands. e reapened
sections of the California coast to pro-
s tive offshore drilling. He relaxed

s ri mining controls. He increased min-~

era leasing rights on federal land, in-
cluding designated wilderness areas. He
drOpped 50 attorneys from the de art-
ment solicitor’s office who had n
assigned to investigate violations of en-
vironmental rules, and he cut by 40
percent the funds devoted to protecting
endangered species. .
Watt’s latest triumph is the ap arent
destruction of the Santa Monica oun-
tains national Recreation Area that
stretches from Hollywood to Ventura
County and was authorized by Congress

in 1978. Watt does not like urban arks
and makes no exce tion for the anta
Monica preposal. T is year’s fund for
land ac uisition has been cut from $20
million 0 $6 million. What is hideously
fascinating about the reduction is that it

, represents about 96 percent of all such

cuts made throughout the Park Service
system. .

That cripplin slash inspired some
morbid curiosity ause the recreation
area was considered'by the Park Service

to be a fine example of its efforts to

place more parks near huge pulation
centers. When the curious inquired of the
Department of the Interior for an expla-
nation, department officials dummied
u .
p 6. Ray Amett, assistant secretary
for land, water and arks, retreated in
silence from all aues ions. A spokesman
for the National ark Service capped out
and said darned if he could find anybody
who would squeal officially. Finally,
Russell Dickinson, director of the Na-
tional Park Service, got on the tele bone
and pleaded innocent when aske why
the Santa Monicas ranked 23rd on a new
priority list of park projects. “I did not
Karticipate personally in that exercise,”

e said. Somebody did, but evidently
security is tighter at Interior than it is at
the Pentagon.

Park supporters are more than some-
what irritated at Watt’s raiders. Susan
Nelson, president of the lonely Friends
of the Santa Monica Mountains, suspects
that “Reagan and Watt are listening to
the big landowners in the Mountains who
don’t want a park under any circum-
stances.” . .

That’s easy enou h for Susan Nelson
to say, but if the par is established, can
she tell us how many generations we can
count on to use it?

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

FIGHTING TO
SAVE THE WEST,
ANSEL ADAMS
TAKES HIS BEST
SHOT AT WATT
OF INTERIOR

P TRON

Ansel Adams’ photo-
graphs of the American
landscape are portraits
really of the national soul
and spirit—great lumines-
cent images of a vast
wilderness happily untamed
and untrammeled, prime-
val. Yet on the wall of his fa-
mous darkroom hangs a
picture of quite another sort
——a stiffly posed portrait of
James Watt, Ronald Rea-
gan’s Secretary of the
Interior. It is a photograph
Adams quickly disclaims
having taken, but one
to which he has added a few
mischievous touches all his
own. A plastic spider is
pinned to Watt’s head, and
below the picture Adams has inscribed: “Darts anyone?”
Ansel Adams, 79, is America’s photographer laureate, a
man with ample laurels to rest upon. But the social con-
science which has informed his life’s work is not allowing
him a peaceful semiretirement: He is currently “boiling,”
as he puts it, over Reagan’s appointment of the most blatant
anti-environmentalist ever to serve as the country’s chief
conservation officer. Perceiving Watt as a threat to the
natural beauty Adams has celebrated in his classic pho-
tographs, the legendary artist has decided to put
his considerable energy and prestige behind a campaign

(DROGER RESSMEYER

“I care about this land too
much to let it go without a
fight,” says Adams, at work on
the California coast.

for Watt’s removal. “l’ve known Ansel for 10 years and I’ve '

never seen him so emotionally upset over something,”

says Bill Turnage, executive director of the Wilderness

Society. “If he met Watt face to face, he’d probably

punch him in the nose.” Indeed, when Adams talks about

Watt, the usually jovial free spirit with a pixieish gleam

in his eye turns downright fierce. “He’s the overseer

of the land and resources of this country, and he’s

going to be responsible for destroying them,” says
CONTINUED

Adams’ famous photograph Clearing Winter Storm was made‘ In
his beloved Yosemite National Park" In 1 944.

 




Adams. “No wonder he’s aroused a
certain amount of my wrath.”

Watt is assuredly no conservationist.
Before taking over the Interior Depart-
ment, he made a reputation battling
that agency in court. As head of the
conservative Denver-based Mountain
States Legal Foundation, Watt led the
campaign to help private industry in
its attempt to gain access to federal
lands, which comprise some 43 percent
of the Rocky Mountain states. He also
worked against the initiatives of envi-
ronmentalists. In just five months as
Interior Secretary, Watt has gone far

] ITJA GHVIIIM

“What Is the real motive of the extreme
environmentalists?” Interior‘s Watt once
asked. “Is It to weaken America?”

toward reversing his department’s long
conservationist tradition. His plans in-
clude relaxing federal regulations on
strip-mining, offering to give private
mining firms the right to drill in federal
wilderness areas, speeding up the sale
of offshore oil and gas leases, declar-
ing a moratorium on the acquisition of
national parkland—and initiating a
study of whether some national parks
should be abolished. Russell Peterson,
president of the National Audubon So-
ciety, charges that Watt “has one of
the most anti-environmental records of
anyone I’ve ever met.” No one can
claim there wasn’t warning, however.
Asked by the House Interior Committee
if he would save public lands for “fu-
ture generations,” Watt, a born-again
Christian, replied: “I do not know how
many future generations we can count
on before the Lord returns.”

Predictably, Watt has caused a flur-
ry of controversy. Former Sen. Gaylord
Nelson, who is now chairman of the
Wilderness Society, calls Watt a “hired
gun for the special interests.” Califor-
nia Gov. Jerry Brown has filed suit to
prevent Watt from selling oil-drilling
leases off the shores of such scenic
sites as Big Sur and Point Reyes. Even
California’s archconservative Sen. S.l.
Hayakawa is opposed to the drilling.
But an irate Ansel Adams wants more
drastic action. “Watt,” he insists, “must
be removed.”

At Adams’ suggestion, the Sierra
Club is currently circulating a petition
calling for Watt’s ouster. In five weeks
the environmental group has collected
more than 80,000 signatures. Adams,
despite arthritis and heart problems,
has taken a very personal interest in the
campaign, writing letters to newspa-
pers and telephoning congressmen to
enlist support. “I make it a point to do
something every day, whether it’s an in-
terview or‘a letter or a phone call,” he
said. “If everybody did that, maybe we
could stop Watt. As I’ve been saying,

a letter a day—from a million people
—keeps the Watts away.”

Adams’ efforts appear to have little
chance for success. Although the
White House recently chided Watt for
his confrontational style and urged him

chosen RESSMEYER

 




 

4,4
. ,5 I /
Jm/xJ/r/ﬂnﬂ/Wn

/

z

. f/ﬁM/
V. I
‘ . //

é/ﬂ/

// ..
xﬂ/Wmﬂww
I 1/.

 




to hold a meeting with environmental
leaders, President Reagan still sup-
ports his lnterior Secretary. So do
some legislators. “He is a very reason-
able person,” says Wyoming Sen. Alan
Simpson. “I have known Jim Watt for
over 20 years now and I have never
seen him deviate from good con-
science and sensitivity. He is taking the
hard issues and dealing with them.”
Even those congressmen who oppose
Watt see no practical way to get rid of
him. “i think he is a terrible Secretary of
the interior,” says Sen. Alan Cranston
of California, “but I don’t think there
are any grounds for impeachment.”

The photographer remains adamant.
“This man is halting 100 years of growth
of the national park system, halting
two decades of progress in protecting
areas near major cities. Watt thinks ev-
erything in the world was made for
profit. His philosophy is to rape, ruin
and run. It’s absolutely frightening.”

Adams is not a newcomer to the po-
litical heights, but he has spent his long
life in other worlds—climbing the rug—
ged Sierra Nevada mountains carrying
his big box camera on his shoulder, or
standing immersed in the perpetual
night of his darkroom, perfecting his
now-famous “zone system” of photo-
graphic exposures. Adams began his
career at 14, when his insurance broker
father took him to Yosemite National
Park in 1916. Since then Yosemite’s
rugged beauty has dominated Adams’
life and art. He met his wife, Virginia
Best, there in 1921 and married her sev-
en years later, forming a union that has
lasted for 53 years and produced two
children—Anne, 45, an art postcard
dealer, and Michael, 47, a physician
who was born in Yosemite. For each of
the past 65 years, Adams has returned
to Yosemite, hiking its trails, climbing
its peaks and bringing back with him
some of the most memorable images
in the history of his art, including the ex-
amples on these pages. Books of
Adams’ photographs have sold more
than a million copies and recently one
oversize print sold for $71,500.
Adams laughs at such prices: “Don’t
they know I’m not dead yet?”

But Adams’ work has done more

“I hope Watt ls ready to take me on,” says
Adams, undaunted by those who say his
anti-Administration drive Is futile.

27

 




than make money and adorn museums;
it has had political impact. His book 8/-
erra Nevada: The John Muir Trail,
published in 1938, helped persuade
FDR to support a bill making Califor-
nia’s Kings Canyon a national park.
Adams was also an early member of the
Sierra Club, one of the nation’s largest
environmental groups, and served on
its board of directors for 37 years.

“it is hard to tell which has shaped the
other more, Ansel Adams or the Sierra
Club,” wrote David Brower, the

club’s first executive director. Last
year Jimmy Carter honored both the ar-
tistic and environmental achievements
of Ansel Adams by awarding him the
Presidential Medal of Freedom. “Ad—
ams has been visionary in his efforts to
preserve this country’s wild and scenic
areas both on film and on earth,” the
award proclaims. “It is through his fore-
sight and fortitude that so much of
America has been saved for future
Americans.”

Hindered by declining health in re-
cent years, Adams has cut down on his
hiking and spent more time in his home
on the Pacific coast near Carmel,

Calif. He continues to work daily, how-

ever, making prints for museums,

updating his famous books on photo-

graphic techniques, writing his autobi- “If Watt gets his way,” says Adams,
ography and helping to compile a “the parks will be exploited terribly.”
collection of his letters. He does his Many of his beautifu' Photographs
writing on a state-of—the-art word-

processing machine. “I love all the

latest technology,” he says gleefully.

That love even extends, ironically, to

nuclear reactors: “I’d rather take a

chance with nuclear power than the

known harm of burning fossil fuels.”

Anti-nuke activists may not approve of

that sentiment but they cannot accuse

Adams of selling out—or even

mellowing. The maestro is feistier than

ever. When a magazine asked him re-

cently to photograph Ronald Reagan

at the President’s Santa Barbara

ranch, Adams refused, wanting nothing

to do with the man who appointed

James Watt. “He’s an actor and a pup-

pet. He could read a beer can label and

make it seem eloquent,” says Adams.

“I don’t like Reagan. I can’t ignore

my feelings and just come down and

make a pretty picture.” DAVID SHEFF

28 Photographs by Ansel Adams

were taken in national parks, includ-
ing Moon and I-lalfDome (above) and
Rain, Bear Track 00 ve (below).

 




( 49W

I'vv'lf"

~ Lo“ 1..

MW v ,,,
2/1, 075-»...

ar sites Watt hopes to lease for drilling. “This,” declares Adams, “is what’s at stake.”

Point SurStonn shows Paciﬁc coastline no

 




by Jan Reid

 

Texas sheep and goat ranchers are ﬁghting for their
livelihood against the toughest predator in the world.

 

ust before dawn on a Sunday two coyotes bellied under a barbed-
wire fence into one of Robin Giles’s goat pastures. Giles runs Hill-
ingdon Ranch, which has been in his family since 1887. It is a
three-thousand—acre spread in Kendall County between Comfort
and Fredericksburg, and he stocks it with 1000 goats, 400 sheep,
and 150 head of cattle. The coyotes, a young male and an older, pregnant
female, were average representatives of a species that has thrived on taking
what civilized man has to offer. If livestock, especially sheep and goats, are
available, coyotes prey on them, taking the young, injured, and weak.
The pair that slipped under the wire had probably been together for a
couple of years—coyotes don’t mate for life. Like other members of their
species, they communicated playfulness, annoyance, and apology with
shows of teeth and the position of their ears. They whined, growled, and
barked at each other like collies, but they didn’t voice the falsetto mixture
of yips, cackles, and howls for which coyotes are best known. This singing,
which prompted immigrants from the Old World to call them American
jackals, occurs primarily within social groups; it is the means by which the
animals maintain bonds, issue challenges, and reaffirm status among
themselves. Coyotes gather together during the mating season, but then the

 

Opposite: This coyote has been trapped, but so far the species has defied all attempts to eliminate it.

 

Photograph by Wyman P. Meinzer, Jr. JUNE 1981n’EXAS MONTHLY 143

 




 

“C'oyotes have been
clocked at 35
miles an hour at
the end of a two-
mile dead run.
But they don ’t

get by solely on
ph ysical pro wess
and lero city. The y
thrive because

th e y are in ven ti ve
scroungers—

and they eat
what’s handy. ”

 

breeding pairs go their own way, establishing territories with
splashes of urine. For the time being there was no social group.
In the long valley these two were the only coyotes.

At night the pair hunted in practiced tandem. It was standard
procedure for one of them to slink ever so patiently toward their
chosen prey—say, a great blue heron—then charge, frightening
the bird into the snapping leap of the other, which had inched
into position from the opposite side. They also ran down jack-
rabbits in long-winded sprint relays. But their last good meal
had been three days ago—a day-old lamb that was staggering
from hunger. The ewe had done her best to nurse the little thing,
but because her nipples were distended, the lamb had given up
trying to figure it out. As the male coyote approached, the ewe
stood over her lamb and swung this way and that to face the
threat. As the coyote circled, she stamped her foot repeatedly,
like a dotty old lady, as if to say. “Stop that! Do you hear me?”
The lamb was soon dizzy from the movement, and the coyote
lunged for its throat.

This particular morning the male coyote sniffed another
distraction. He had passed the same carrion-baited tip of a
buried M-44 sodium cyanide gun a dozen times. Though he was
old enough to know better, today the fresh carrion scent was too
intriguing to resist. The two-inch vertical cylinder, which Robin
Giles had planted near his fence line, was designed to discharge
a lethal dose of poison into the mouth of any carnivore that was
lured to the bait. The coyote circled the thumb-size cylinder,
sniffing gingerly; his mate whined her disapproval. He looked at
her, then sat down near the cone, forefeet extended in con-
sideration. She whined again, louder. He inched forward on his
belly and tasted the carrion paste, then jerked his head back. Re-
assured, he licked the rest of the bait off, and began to gnaw the
tip like a bone.

The surprise of the discharge drove him high into the air.

He hit the ground running in terror. The bitter almond taste of
the cyanide overwhelmed the flavor of carrion. His involuntary
functions were in a chaotic frenzy. His blood pressure shot up
while his heartbeat slowed; just as quickly his blood pressure

144 TEXAS MONTHLY/JUNE 1981

 

 

 

Giles with border collie Puppy: he runs goals on his ranch becaus

 

plummeted and his heart raced. Unable to breathe, he began to
stagger. His blood still carried oxygen, but the cyanide had
blocked its transfer to his body tissues. His lungs were filling
with fluid. The coyote’s run for his life carried him a hundred
yards before he collapsed in a heap, the victim of cardiac arrest.
The female went numb with shock. After a while, making quiet
sounds of remorse, she slipped back under the wire and trotted
off into the dawn, her tail between her legs.

 

Battle of the Range

In the prehistory of the North American continent, coyotes
ranged the Western prairies, sharing the territory quite re—
spectfully with gray wolves. But as the plains filled with Euro-

 

 




 

 




 

 

 

 

 

goats, unlike cattle, will eat almost anything that grows. The omnivorous coyote, however, eats many of the same things—and the goats.

 

peans those large predators dwindled in number, and coyotes
assumed canine dominance of the wild. For four centuries they
spread east and north and south. As clear-cutting of timber ex-
tended their natural. habitat, they moved eastward. They par-
ticularly approved of Southern man’s practice of discarding
refuse from poultry plants in open dumps. From the agrarian
Midwest, where they were heavily hunted and poisoned, the
coyotes ﬂed up through the Great Lakes and southern Canada,
mating with the scattered wolves and producing a larger breed
that still inhabits New England. Their range now extends from
Alaska to Costa Rica. They multiply in garbage dumps and eat
. highway-slaughtered carrion inside the city limits of Houston,
Denver, and Los Angeles.

Coyotes have been clocked at 35 miles an hour at the end of a

two-mile dead run. A thirty-pound coyote can kill a two-
hundred-pound buck if it can bounce the deer off a stock fence.

fBut coyotes don’t get by solely on physical prowess and ferocity.
They thrive because they are adaptable and because they are in-

ventive scroungers—they eat what’s handy. And what’s handy
varies a great deal with season and locality. While rabbits may
account for roughly half their diet, they also eat mice, insects,
birds, snakes, and a surprising number of plants—mesquite
pods, juniper berries, mulberries, grass, even prickly-pear cac-
tus. They kill livestock, but being opportunists, they will also eat
animals that are already dead. Of course, it is their predilection
for live prey that makes them the bane of livestock owners, who
have waged war on all wild canids throughout history.

The fate of the coyotes’ onetime natural superiors, gray and

JUNE 1981/TEXAS MONTHLY 145

 




 

 

 

.1
J
‘J
r
.—
J
z
A
v
—-
2
I
/

Giles sets a sodium cyanide gun, the legal way to poison coyotes.

 

red wolves, is an indication of just how deadly man’s enmity can
be. Because the gray wolves’ size and their practice of hunting in
packs endangered all livestock—and no doubt because of
subliminal human fears associated with wilderness and the
wolves’ eerie basso howls—their slaughter commenced in 1630
with the passage of a Massachusetts bounty law and peaked
after the Civil War with the pelt hunters who swarmed the West.
The fashion in fur coats in Europe and Russia meant that wolf
skins rivaled beaver and buffalo hides in value. Today, though
gray wolves still range the mountains of Mexico and the Arctic
reaches of Canada and Alaska, in the contiguous US. there are
only a thousand holding out in the upper Great Lakes and in
one national park in Montana.

In Texas, coyotes also spread into the range occupied by red
wolves as those animals were killed off. Goaded by ranchers,
Texans exterminated their share of red wolves with the aid of
state funds disbursed through county “wolf clubs,” which
paid cash bounties for scalps and ears. Perhaps a hundred red
wolves are now making their last stand in the thicket swamps
of coastal Jefferson County and adjoining Cameron Parish,
Louisiana.

Yet unlike their canine relatives, coyotes have defied—so far

at least—every control measure man has devised. A coyote in A

New Mexico, for instance, dragged a steel trap for seventeen
days before freeing itself. During that time the coyote’s drop-
pings contained the remains of a blue jay, a piece of its own
foot, acorns, oak leaves, gopher hair, and the wool of a sheep.
There is even evidence to suggest that in areas of intensive
predator control, female coyotes come into heat twice as often.
One study showed that along the Rio Grande, where coyotes are
the least controlled, their litters averaged 4.3 pups. On the Ed-
wards Plateau near Uvalde, where the coyote population has
been drastically reduced by control, the average litter size is 6.9.

Until the Civil War the Edwards Plateau was primarily cattle
territory, but as the ranchers depleted the primal sea of grass,

146 TEXAS MONTHLY/JUNE 1981

 

“Since sheep and
go at ranchers have
no control o ver
weather cycles or
market ﬂuctuations,
they have lastened
up on predators as
the critical [actor—
the dilleren ce
between going
broke and making
a living. They can ’t
have any coyotes
in their pastures. ”

 

this region, along with the arid Trans-Pecos to the west, became
more hospitable to sheep and goats than to cows. In areas of
sheep and goat production wild canids come with the territory;
South African ranchers poison the jackal, Australians hunt the
dingo. But throughout the Edwards Plateau coyotes vanished as
surely as gray and red wolves had gone befoie. With strange
pride, Texans festooned their roadside mesquites and barbed
wire with dead coyotes and left them hanging upside down to
rot. Sheepmen set out to eradicate all wild canids from their
range, and by the thirties they had largely succeeded.

But their success at eliminating predators didn’t mean they
prospered accordingly. Sheep ranchers who allowed their live-
stock to overgraze the lean and often arid land were hurt by
their wasteful range management. They also suffered from the
reluctance of their children to carry on the family tradition and
from the ingress of the ranchette subdivisions. The horrid
drouth of the fifties and the textile industry’s replacement of
wool with synthetic fibers combined to ravage their livelihood.
Since 1950 the 200,000 sheep ranchers west of the Mississippi
have dwindled to less than 50,000. And while the petroleum
shortage has prompted a return to natural fibers, that market
reversal has not yet caught up with the overproduction of sheep.
The wisdom among Texas Sheepmen is that the wool sold from a
ewe’s annual fleece barely pays for her keep. They adjust their
breeding programs to maintain the quality of the wool, but they
make their money off the lambs shipped to meat markets and
restaurants back East. Who knows why the Anglo-Saxons who
pioneered Texas left behind their love of mutton? But they
did. Almost all the refrigerated trucks that pull out of Texas
with a load of slaughtered lamb have a destination of New York
City. _

To the surprise of everyone, the possibility for real profit has
come to lie with goats. With land eroded and exhausted by the
overgrazing of previous generations, ranchers value goats
because their catholic grazing habits remove sapling mesquite
and cedar, which could otherwise choke out the pasture grasses.
Aside from the occasional kid sold for barbecue as cabrito,

 




 

 

 

The spoils of victory near Haskell, 1963: ranchers used to display dead coyotes, but the ecology movement prompted discretion.

 

short-haired Spanish goats are good for nothing but brush con-
trol. Angora goats, on the other hand, are just as functional in
terms of range management—and they grow mohair as well.
Enhanced in value by the oil shortage, mohair has enjoyed a
market boom in recent years, showing up in women’s and men’s
fashions and upholstery velours. And unlike wool, there’s no
oversupply of mohair. The terrain and climate of the Edwards
Plateau closely resemble, the Angora breed’s original habitat in
Turkey. The 8.5 million pounds of Angora mohair clipped last
year by ranchers on the Edwards Plateau and in the rest of
Texas account for 97 per cent of the annual U.S. production of
the fiber. South Africa and Turkey are the only other countries
where Angora goats occur in large numbers.

While goats are a little smarter than sheep, they are not a pro-
tective maternal species—the nannies frequently wander off and
leave their kids to their own devices. In both species, the survival
rate of newborn livestock determines the profitability of the
ranching enterprise, and goats and sheep have few defenses
against predators. Since ranchers have no control over weather
cycles or market ﬂuctuations, they have fastened upon pred—
ators as the critical factor—the difference between going broke
and making a living. Sheep and goat ranchers insist they can’t
afford to have any coyotes in their pastures.

Cattlemen, on the other hand, hated the big predators——
bears, mountain lions, wolves—and systematically got rid of
them, but they have always been fairly nonchalant about
coyotes. Cows are ambitious prey for coyotes and, for the most
part, formidable defenders of their calves. Some cattlemen also
contend that coyotes benefit the cattle range, since rabbits are
their preferred prey, and rabbits compete with cows for food.
As hard times have fallen on sheep ranching in Texas, many
stockmen have reconverted their tired pastures to cattle produc-
tion, even though the beef market has been generally depressed.
A large number of them blame coyotes for their decision, but
their return to cattle raising in turn endangers the prospects of

neighboring sheep and goat ranchers who would rather hold
out. Because cattlemen are less concerned about coyotes, the
animals now swarm the Trans-Pecos and the western part
of the state from Haskell south to Laredo. Moving in from
all sides, coyotes are making a determined comeback on the
edges of the Edwards Plateau. The Central and West Texas do-
main of sheep and goats has become a shrinking island in a
sea of cattle country.

As a result, two standards of predator control now apply in
Texas. In cattle and farming country, coyotes are thinned out to
help keep rabies in check and to prevent extreme overpopulation
of the canids, which could then become a menace to deer and
livestock. But in sheep and goat country “prophylactic
control,” the euphemism for the timeworn goal of all-out
eradication, is practiced. According to the sheep and goat
ranchers, coyotes cannot be allowed to reestablish their habitat:
if they come back in, they bring financial ruin with them.

The uneasy referee of this range war is the US. Fish and
Wildlife Service, an arm of the Interior Department. The Divi—
sion of Animal Damage Control ofthat agency, once considered
a servant of ranching interests, has drifted with environmentalist
political tides toward a philosophy more protective of the wild-
life. Congress extended the laws for protection of bald eagles to

golden eagles in 1962, and since then the federal wildlife

bureaucrats have also restricted the means of eliminating
coyotes. They permit the retail distribution and use of M—44
sodium cyanide guns, but all other poisons and means of
poisoning are illegal. They encourage ranchers to shoot problem
coyotes from the air, which is sometimes an effective tactic, but
helicopter rental is so expensive—about $140 an hour—that
ranchers can’t afford many dry runs. The use of steel traps is

still the recommended control measure.
Ranchers are free to hire private trappers as long as the trap-
pers observe the federal rules. They demand salaries of about
(Continued on page 224)

JUNE 1981/TEXAS MONTHLY 147

 




THE COYOTE WARS

(Continued from page 147)

 

$1000 a month, which exceeds the capaci-
ty of many ranching budgets. Private
trappers supplement that income by sell-
ing the pelts, for which there is a brisk
market, and the discrimination of their
trapping is often highly questionable—
particularly when they take predators like
' foxes and bobcats, which only occasional-
ly go after livestock. While federal trap-
pers are employed by Animal Damage
Control, their salaries are funded co-
operatively by the feds, the state, and
the counties, with private ranching
associations. These g0vernment trappers
are not allowed to sell the pelts. They
are available to ranchers on a limited
basis, since the demand for their
services is great. The feds have acknowl-
edged a need to hold the line on the Ed-
wards Plateau, and the trappers redouble
their efforts in sheep- and goat-producing
counties in that area.

Last year, for example, one of Robin
Giles’s neighbors lost so many goats to a
pair of coyotes in one of his pastures that
he swore off trying to raise them there
again. Then he had to decide what to do
with that acreage. He could run cows, like
other ranchers in the area, but this rocky
stretch of Guadalupe River watershed is
very lean cattle country. Or he could sell
out. Every rancher in Kendall County
knows that he or she could sell property

for upwards of $2000 an acre, regardless

of range condition, and many have
already sold. Giles has nothing against
city folk who’d like to be able to see the
stars at night, but the last thing he wants
for a neighbor is a little suburb of six-acre
plots called Appaloosa Gallop or Blue
Moon Vista.

Last fall Giles approached his dis-
couraged neighbor with a lease agreement
that would cut the neighbor in on the
proﬁts if Hillingdon Ranch livestock
fared any better in that pasture. Then he
asked for help from Fish and Wildlife,
though he hasn’t had much luck with
federal trappers. Most of them are young,
and usually by the time they’ve held the
job long enough to master the skill, they
move on to other employment. Giles’s
land varies nearly five hundred feet in
elevation; some of the rocky slopes are
rougher than the moonscape. That means
the trappers can’t always work from their
favored four-wheel-drive vehicles or even
on horseback. And if they’re on foot, they
defeat their purpose by leaving their scent.
Giles’s favorite trapper was a grizzled
character, now retired, who used to search
for coyote spoor while riding a donkey,
his boots barely clearing the ground.

But Mike Adkins, a government trap-
per who volunteered to help Giles, com-
pensated for inexperience with eagerness.
He had been working in the San Angelo
area around Sterling City, where coyotes
teem and sheep and goat production has

224 TEXAS MONTHLY/JUNE 1981

been curtailed. “If I got five or six
a day over there, people just shrugged,”
he told Giles. “When I get one in this
county I’m a hero.”

A clear day after a rain is the best time
to track coyotes, but last January’s
weather wouldn’t cooperate. Impatient
and frustrated, Adkins resorted to a
predator call. On a foggy, misty day, he
crept into the neighbor’s pasture with the
whistle and a hunting riﬂe, then issued a
few shrill whaaaaaoooooos, in an attempt
to approximate the sound of a dying rab-
bit. He couldn’t believe his eyes. Ears
pricked forward, the coyotes that had
wreaked such havoc came trotting right
up. His first shot killed the old, crippled
female. Her younger mate, fleeing down a
draw and up the ridge, would have been
able to dodge the next bullet if he hadn’t
stopped to look back.

“A fluke,” Giles said later. “But I’ll
take it.” ~

“The Smartest so}:
In the World”

To understand why the federal agency
charged with protecting wildlife doubles
as an extermination service, you have to
appreciate the broader historical context.
In the spirit of the Old West, well into this
century ranchers eliminated predators
however they damn well chose. They
trapped coyotes, ran them down for sport
with greyhounds and pickups. They
crashed into hillsides trying to shoot them
from airplanes. But mostly they poisoned
them.

Strychnine, favored by old—time pelt
hunters, was discredited because its emetic
qualities often caused the coyote to vomit
the bait before absorbing a lethal dose.
And the first acclaimed wonder killer,
thallium sulfate, proved too efficient. A
poisoned sheep carcass put out as bait set
off a chain reaction that killed the coyote
that ate the sheep, the badger that ate the
coyote, and the buzzard that ate the
badger. In 1932 six Mexican laborers in
California died after eating tortillas ac-
cidentally made with grain that had been
treated with thallium sulfate to poison
rodents. The deaths of those men pro-
vided the first seeds of what came to be
known as environmental impact.

In 1931 Congress had assigned regula-
tion of predator control to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, which eventually
outlawed thallium sulfate and ad-
ministered the new program until 1941,
when the production needs of war
prompted a shufﬂe of the little-known
program to the Interior Department. The
next breakthrough in predator control co-
incided with the golden years of sheep
husbandry in this country—the aftermath
of World War 11. Tested in Maverick
County with astounding success in 1946,
the Humane Coyote-Getter, as it was
trademarked, was the prototype sodium

 

 

cyanide gun smeared with carrion bait. 1f
the scent enticed a coyote to gnaw the
cone, a .38 cartridge loaded blank-fashion
discharged the lethal powder into the
predator’s throat. Death from sodium
cyanide was prompt and, compared to
other poisons, merciful. Unfortunately,
the coyote-getter proved harmful to less
troublesome species as well—particularly
foxes and occasionally humans.

Steel traps and sodium cyanide have
been the primary means of predator con-
trol since then, but many ranchers once
had high hopes for a synthetic substance
called Compound 1080, which is extreme-
ly toxic to canids. On one troubled West
Texas sheep ranch, a private trapper tied
collars treated with Compound 1080
around the throats of lambs in a heavily
preyed pasture; the coyote killed the sacri-
ficial lamb, but the coyote died too. Since
some coyotes demonstrate more of a
fondness for lamb than others, here at
last was a method that eliminated only
the offending one. Opponents of 1080
have submitted evidence suggesting that
1080, like thallium sulfate, might be
chain-reactive. Unless a rancher finds and
removes the coyote carcass, anything that
eats the coyote might die as well. That
evidence, however, has not been sup-
ported by Fish and Wildlife research. A
study on dogs in New Zealand also main-
tains that death by 1080 is slow and pain-
ful, and even though the desired result is a
dead predator, most people agree that the
quicker the job is done the better.

Putting collars on lambs and kids, as
well as finding the coyote carcasses, is no
easy trick on the Edwards Plateau where
ranches are generally large-and the terrain
broken. And even if it were possible for
every sheep and goat in the West to wear a
1080 collar, we may be underestimating
the wily coyote. Coyotes normally kill by
going for the jugular, but the killing point
is not that easily targeted; on one test
ranch, 30 per cent of the coyotes went for
the throat but missed the 1080 collar—so
the sacrifice went for naught. And even
on a Meridian test ranch where the collars
have shown great promise, 15 per cent of
the livestock lost were killed by coyotes
that deviated from the standard jugular
attack and went instead for the flank.
There’s little reason to doubt that our
most adaptable predator would learn to
leave the jugular alone altogether after a
few lambing seasons.

The isolation and the lifestyle of ranch-
ing often breed a certain indifference
toward the foibles and passions of the
outside world. Years ago, when I first
became interested in predator problems, a
Trans-Pecos sheep rancher winked at me
and said, “I don’t take much stock in
politics. I can’t tell any difference, except
it seems like it rains a little more when the
Republicans are in office.” That rancher
received a rude jolt in 1972 when Richard
Nixon, after reviewing an Interior Depart-
ment predator study, signed an executive

 




order outlawing use of all poisons for pred-
ator control on federal lands, where sheep
ranchers in most Western states jockey for
grazing permits. The Environmental Pro-
tection Agency also discontinued registra—
tion and interstate shipment of sodium
cyanide to private users. Suddenly the
Sierra Club carried more clout in
Washington than the Texas Sheep and
Goat Raisers Association.

In response to the ranchers’ protests
and the evidence of alarming losses of
livestock, the Interior Department re-
stored sodium cyanide to restricted use in
1974—replacing the coyote-getter with
the safer M-44, which is manufactured in
Midland. But sheep and goat ranchers
could no longer count on Fish and
Wildlife’s cozying up to the interests the
agency is supposed to regulate. While the
Division of Animal Damage Control con-
tinued to help ranchers with its trouble-
shooting trappers, Jimmy Carter’s
Secretary of the Interior, Cecil Andrus,
said that mass poisoning of predators was
no longer politically supportable in this
country. Andrus discontinued all federal
research into Compound 1080 in favor of
exploring nonlethal alternatives and then
rescinded that order, approving further
research at Texas A&M University.

The most promising nonlethal pro-
cedure has been the use of two breeds of
European dogs, komondors and Great
Pyrenees, as round-the-clock shepherds.
The dogs, large enough to defend the

livestock from coyotes, live with the herds
and come to the ranch house only to eat.
But they are hard to train and impractical
on ranches of vast acreage where sheep
cannot be confined to a small pasture.
Some ranchers in Saskatchewan have had
success with baiting carcasses with lithium
chloride, which so nauseates coyotes that
they cease to consider sheep as palatable
prey. But the vagueness and impracticality
of other federal proposals verges on
silliness: chemosterilization, but with no
specific ideas about how to achieve
results; five-strand electric fences that any
rancher knows would short out constant-
ly; unemployed auto workers retrained by
the government as shepherds.

Predator control, with emphasis on the
1080 collar, is a major component of the
“sagebrush rebellion” that helped sweep
the Carter Administration out of office.
Western ranchers want to retrieve the
right to do what they like on their own
land. But the ranching interests aren’t pin-
ning all their hopes on Ronald Reagan’s
“pro-people” Interior Secretary, James
Watt. They would like to transfer all
predator control back to the Department
of Agriculture, a stacking of the bureau-
cratic deck that would presumably in-
sulate ranchers from “wildlife protec-
tionists.” Last year just such a measure
passed the Senate by a two-to-one margin,
but the House did not follow suit. Texas
Senator John Tower, who made opposi-
tion to federal protection of golden eagles

For those who remember Acapulco as it was.

I .
r,’/ ' ~ ’

The Acapulco of secluded beaches.
rambling haciendas, manicured
fairways, timeless luxury, and
splendid cuisine still exists. \bu

MAR

 

have
to ﬁnd yourself there.

*Per person. double occupancy. April 19 to December 15. 1981.

PIERRE
QLIES

A PRINCESS HOTEL

For reservations or information. see your travel agent or call 1-800-223-1818.

.‘f‘

Escape to all of this now for
4 days and 3 nights for $88.50*.

 

 

226 TEXAS MONTHLY/JUNE 1981

 

a hallmark of his first term, has pushed
the transfer every session since 1965. Last
year Tower castigated wildlife defenders
in Senate hearings: “If a lot of these
bleeding hearts had been around a million
years ago, we would be up to our eyeballs
in dinosaurs. I think some people have the
fallacious notion that the coyote is an en—
dangered species. There is no way you can
endanger a coyote—they are the smartest
SOBs in the world.”

The pendulum has definitely swung
away from the environmentalist crusade
of the late sixties. Tower contends that
transfer of the predator program back to
the agricultural interests would simply
restore the spirit of the original 1931
legislation. Maybe so. But it might be
noted that thallium sulfate was all the rage
that year, and eradication, not control,
was the operative concept.

 

How John Denver
Keeps Coyotes Away

By 1970 coyotes hadn’t been seen
around Hillingdon Ranch in thirty years.
Robin Giles had recently graduated from
an agriculture program at Southwest
Texas State University in San Marcos,
where he had paid for his beer by shearing
wool and mohair. He studied the cultiva-
tion of native grasses like indian grass and
other gramas and bluestems, as well as the
treatment of afﬂictions like internal and
external parasites, but he remembers no
courses in predator control.

Giles’s livestock losses began in the
spring of 1970. He put 150 pregnant nan-
nies in one pasture and soon counted 120
newborn kids; six weeks later he had 15
kids left. In thirteen other pastures he had
run 200 yearling and two-year-old goats.
Twenty survived. And his sheep fared lit-
tle better. Though he weaned 265 lambs
out of 300 ewes, when he sold lambs in
October he had only 135 left. He found
plenty of chewed-up carcasses and dried
coyote droppings that were white and
springy with wool and mohair, but he
couldn’t prove that the predators were re-
sponsible for all the losses. Fang marks on
the neck are pretty clear proof that
coyotes have been at work, but to see
those marks a rancher has to get to the
carcass before it has decayed. With the aid
of a federal trapper Giles killed nine
coyotes on his property that year, and
Hillingdon Ranch lost $10,000, or 70 per
cent of his potential income, based on
1970 prices for wool and mohair and
slaughtered lamb.

Giles is a large, loose-jointed man with
an infectious nasal laugh. He usually
covers his curly black hair with a floppy
hat that somehow sets him apart from the
style of cattlemen. He’s 38 now, a two-
term member of the Comfort school
board. But among his ranching colleagues
he’s more renowned for the zeal with
which he attacks the predator prob-

 




lem. He fights coyotes tooth and nail—
that is, as much tooth and nail as the law
allows. Sheep and goat raising takes what
Robin Giles describes as insane optimism,
and of the five children in his family
only he was insane and optimistic enough.

It may seem curious that sheep and goat
ranching would attract anyone in the first
place, but Giles follows in a long line of
enterprising if not altogether practical
men. Consider the settler for whom Ken—
dall County is named. George Kendall was
a cofounder of the New Orleans Pica-
yune, a survivor and chronicler of
Mirabeau Lamar’s expedition to Santa
Fe, and a war correspondent with Win-
ﬁeld Scott at Veracruz. Yet upon survey-
ing the hills west of New Braunfels, Ken-
dall hardly equivocated about his chosen
life’s work. “This section,” he wrote,
“high, dry, coated with short grass . . .
struck me as not only possessing the ad-
vantages I sought in the way of a healthy
home, but as being admirably adapted for
sheep raising, and here my flock was
brought about the commencement of
1853.”

But even during the lifetime of “the
greatest sheepman Texas ever claimed,”
Kendall’s boosterism proved inﬂated.
Through all the market fluctuations,
wars, and weather cycles, labor was
always the critical shortage, and his rosy
prospects were dashed when Comanches
murdered every shepherd they could find,
then set all the pastures on fire. When

Robin’s grandfather, Alfred Giles, came
from England to Kendall County a
generation later, he was able to hire
Kickapoo Indian shepherds from Mexico
for a wage of $15 a month. Palmer Giles,
Alfred’s son and Robin’s father, was
forced to make his living in the oil fields
during the Depression; he kept Hillingdon
Ranch in operation with the assistance of
four Mexican families who were willing to
split the $25 a month he could spare. But
these days the skill of sheepherding has
passed almost into extinction, even among
immigrants from Mexico. And with no
people up in those rough hills to protect
the livestock at night, the problem with
predators is inevitable. Robin could keep
a private trapper busy about half-time,
but he doesn’t have $500 in the monthly
budget to pay the salary.

Palmer Giles, now 87, and Robin’s
mother, Edith, still live in the spacious
ranch house with the screened porches
and the immense dining table where eigh-
teen place settings were once a workaday
affair. Robin has a son and daughter from
his first marriage, and last summer he
married Carol Crona, a young woman
from Alvin who has two daughters from
her first marriage. Their consolidated
family occupies the low-ceilinged rock
structure that was a bunkhouse back when
Hillingdon Ranch needed one. Inside, the
limestone walls are decorated with antique
firearms, hunting trophies, and book-
shelves that hold back issues of National

Geographic and Audubon and a book ti-
tled Alfred Giles: An English Architect in
Texas and Mexico. In addition to being a
rancher, Robin’s grandfather was a Vic-
torian architect whose credits include
several shonlace residences in San An-
tonio’s King William district and court—
houses from Floresville to Laredo to El
Paso. '

I joined Giles one day when he was go-
ing out to check his livestock. Beside a
fireplace where the morning log smol-
dered, he pulled on a pair of rubber boots,
appropriate ranch wear since he had to
inspect the fences—“water gaps” to
ranchers—across the numerous Block
Creek tributaries that were in flood this
spring. We rode away from the house in a
four-wheel-drive pickup with Puppy, a
herding border collie, sacked out in the
back.

As the pickup bounced along an in-
creasingly severe road, Giles talked about
the problems he’s had with predators. The
big predators are by and large just a
legend in this country now, though he
once found the heifer-size tracks of a
mountain lion in a plowed field, and last
summer two men lay in wait near Hondo
for a misplaced Mexican bear that had ac-
tually killed some sheep (the ambush pro—
duced one frightened carnivore, a bullet-
riddled shed, and one broken human
ankle). Except for rare depredations by
foxes and bobcats—whose mayhem is
exaggerated by private trappers, simply

 

 

1",!" ' ' ”9‘.n"3£u;r
‘ > . .5:-
,5

43?, g!

1 if j
-. ‘44? j}

 

 

i:
3.
p.
f
,,
.3:
l-
.‘r
x

, 1.: z

9 ‘* _, F
l t5

i
i

 

 

 

,4“... «n

'. . ‘ ”V I a,

m 7

. .. . ‘ «a: ".6 “ “' , ae’ 7!"! a “ ‘ 5“?! ‘5 ;. " '_2 _' s
- . .I .: .«r‘wf’ .2» .. ."r If -
_l 5 a . '-" A. .. Jul“ a"; . ﬁg]; 1 .. ‘31, , :f‘f'ﬁ '

-lli f}; V i“ a :‘V‘lé‘. f; I, 't )iﬂi I ,‘ I ' ' V r

«Wing-1.
4 a ”.9”

”Baez gm ” 28", ea"? 16", 12"

228 TEXAS MONTHLY/JUNE 1981

(A .V A IA",
we ,5:,w 5...

.10.“ u" "3' 1!: u M n u newsﬂash“ M u p: u u n H r; a: n n “11'

Parks.

scenic

% 6W 0/4 miqdherﬁw

Quiet Grandeur

This spectacular painting is the third in Wind—
berg’s series of signed reproductions paying
tribute to America’s most scenic National

“Quiet Grandeur” is a magnificent view of
Mt.
Washington, State.

Rainier National Park in

 

 

tion contact:

 

A Show/Sale of Windberg Original Oil Paintings will be
held September 26, 1981 in Houston, Texas. For informa—

 

 

7/01/47 ($1/e¢/IJPJ -///r.

 

 

. z )
. i .. .'g.,-_.::l‘.:;».‘:-s:—£§
,.‘ .._ - r...“
wwq.w-.-tw.~...~.. .. _. . w. ‘

1-

; iii . 1
“'~ ' a 71% i
1, as?!» -. {ﬁrst

.W‘Wﬂ'ﬁ’ﬂ‘.

~'—. 9" ' » .J
. 1" 5:53}- i
5.

y}
.9

8401 \html ( u-vk ° \mh- I!” 0 \ll‘llll li-\.I~ “ll-"ill 0 M 'il_‘

3-!“ 3 “ii

©Copyright Wmdbcrg Enterprises, Inc. Austin. TX.

 




because a good bobcat pelt in Texas
sells for about $150 in the fur trade—
golden eagles, feral dogs, and coyotes
are the only predators dangerous to live-
stock.

Many Edwards Plateau sheep and goat
producers ignored the federal law against
killing golden eagles, which was passed in
1962, until the first test case in 1977, when
two ranchers and a government trapper in
Real County stood trial for shooting
dozens of eagles from a helicopter. The
men got off with probation and fines, but
their conviction under a misdemeanor
statute that carried a potential $20,000
fine snapped neighboring ranchers to at-
tention. Golden eagles migrate to the Ed-
wards Plateau in October, and they move
on to their summer grounds by late
March. They pose a severe threat to live-
stock only on those unfortunate ranches
where they elect to winter in large
numbers, and with a little extra work
ranchers can keep their livestock from
mating until late in the fall, so that when
the lambs and kids are born five months
later, the eagles have already moved out.

Golden eagles have never plagued Hill-
ingdon, but Giles doesn’t underestimate
their capabilities. Once, a few years ago,
he was herding some goats on horseback
when he saw an eagle watching from a
nearby tree. Giles was close enough to his
goats and accustomed enough to seeing
eagles that he didn’t pay that one much
attention—until it swooped down in front

of him, nabbed a wobbly kid born five
hours earlier, and ﬂapped away.

We came upon some male goats that he
needed to move down to the shearing
pens, and Giles voiced a command to
Puppy. The quiet little dog jumped down
and began its circling, bluffing routine as
the goats laid their horns back and clat-
tered over the rocks with their chins raised
in indignation. Watching Puppy at work,
Giles started to talk about feral dogs. As
far as ranchers are concerned, one of the
major disadvantages of suburban devel-
opment is that the new homesteaders
bring their dogs. Pets that are trusted
family companions during the day sneak
off at night and roam in packs. In a
pasture containing sheep and goats, what
begins as a playful romp can turn into a
chilling slaughter. They go crazy, they kill
for fun. Kendall County ranchers con-
front the problem of feral dogs by
shooting strays on sight, which makes for
hard feelings among new neighbors.

“The worst combination is when a
border collie gets to running with a
hound,” Giles said. “Any rancher knows
his herding dog has that potential. The
border collie may just be along for the ex-
ercise, but when the hound scares up some
livestock, that collie will start herding and
circling. The first thing you know, the
hound’s taken a chomp. And the border
collie says, ‘Hmmmmmm.’ It scares and
sickens you when you find that pasture
the next morning.”

Giles squirmed in the pickup seat and
gripped the wheel with both hands, warm-
ing up to talk about a more respected
adversary. He’s fought coyotes and tried
to outsmart them so long that he has a cer—
tain admiration for the animals. He
doesn’t favor eradication of the species;
he just doesn’t want them anywhere near
his livestock. “Coyotes pick away at you.
They take one or two a night, then they
leave you alone for a while. And the two
up in here now won’t talk to me. If they
howl it’s not hard to figure out where they
are. A couple of weeks ago I was just
positive I had them located, and I rented
a helicopter so we could shoot them. A
hundred and forty dollars an hour, and
all I got for it was a great view of the
redbuds.”

The jumbled rock of our ascent planed
out into rolling grassland. Giles parked
the pickup and walked the road, looking
for coyote “sign” in the drying mud. He
found no fresh tracks, but he stooped
to examine some damp white manure.
Crumbling and rolling the coyote scat be-
tween his fingers, he said, “That’s lamb’s
wool. There’s not a strand of deer or rab-
bit hair in it.”

We drove on, then got out to walk
again as the road ran along Giles’s fence
line. He inspected the snares he’d rigged
under the bottom strand of barbed wire
where he had found evidence of coyotes’
digging under. The snare is a noose of
steel wire big enough for a coyote’s head

 

TEXAS MONTH LYIJUNE 1981

E R LANG

'. o..‘c

E?

"Ir -

.q

 




but not its shoulders; it is designed to
throttle the beast that noses through an
old tunnel it has dug, then leaps back, try-
ing to get out. Strangulation by steel wire
is not a pleasant or fast way to go. But
coyotes learn from the mistakes of their
peers, and Giles thinks most of them catch
on quickly to his snares. Except for a tuft
of jackrabbit fur, none of the traps
showed evidence of visitation. Along the
way, he also rebaited the exposed tips of
his sodium cyanide guns—he has about 25
planted on his property—with a foul,
twenty-year-old mixture of beaver meat
and deer brains, which he stores in
Gerber’s baby food jars. Around each
, gun he found only the tracks of a large,
inquisitive raccoon.

At the next poison station he stared in
puzzlement, then disbelief. Some animal
had removed the tip of the gun and dis-
carded it in nearby grass. Pointing at the
same fresh tracks, he said, “Do you think
that old coon could just screw that off and
throw it away?”

Giles repaired the gun with extreme
caution. Once he had accidentally trig-
gered a coyote-getter while he was
stooped over it. The first symptom of
cyanide poisoning is a flush of excitement.
He still can’t say whether his exhilaration
owed most to adrenaline or the powder
blown up his nose, but he certainly got a
rush.

Near the foundation and disabled wind—
mill of an old ranch house, he replaced the

battery of another of his predator devices,
an eight-track tape deck rigged to play
very loudly for about a minute every fif-
teen minutes or so—in hapes of frighten-
ing coyotes away. “I’ll try anything,” he
laughed. The program choices were a Kiss
album that had fallen into disfavor with
the children, much to his relief, and the
John Denver record on which the singer
warbles about the wonders of seeing an
eagle fly.

He squatted on his heels and inspected
the grass, cropped close by the male goats.
“The worst thing about the predator
problem is the way it affects my range
management. They make me use pastures
in ways I don’t want to. This grass, for
example—it’s too short. Because of the
coyotes—just the likelihood of coyotes—I
had to run a lot of the males in here
because they can take care of themselves
better. I would have liked to let the
pasture rest with just a few ewes and
lambs. Back in the old days there were
cedars and scrub brush up in the rocks
and draws, but prairie ﬁres and the buf-
falo herds maintained the grassland. The
buffalo would eat the grass right down to
the dirt, but they didn’t come this far
south every year. It’s like mowing a lawn:
that cycle of harvest, rest, and growth
strengthens and thickens the grass so
weeds can’t get started. When the cat-
tlemen started settling this country, they
could get lost in the grass on horse-
back. They said, ‘My God, we’ll never see

the end of it.’ Well, now it takes four-
teen acres of my'ranch to support one
cow.

“You’ve got to run goats in this coun-
try. They eat things like bluebonnets that
a cow won’t touch. They’ll take a cedar
tree as tall as you and me, bend it, jump
on it, break it, and eat it. Man, I love to
watch them do that. If you take the goats
away from this country, in twenty years
it’ll be nothing but cedar brake, and
what’s it good for then? Scrub jays and
golden-cheeked warblers. Deer may sleep
in there, but they won’t have anything to
eat: grass won’t grow under a cedar.”

He shook his head and squinted off
toward Comfort. “1 just hate to see it
reach the point where ‘conservationist’
and ‘rancher’ are scare words in the op-
posing camps. By my way of thinking, I’m
a conservationist.”

 

A Virgina! Science

 

The notion of conservationism came
late to Americans. As a political force, it
began with Theodore Roosevelt’s ex-
posure to Wyoming ranchers at the dawn
of this century. At the time, though, those
Wyoming bullyboys were busily engaged
in the eradication of the last gray wolves
from their range. Later, when he was
president, Roosevelt came to Texas and
Oklahoma to participate in the bally-
hooed wolf hunt at Big Pasture. The con-
fusion and inconsistencies in the issue

 

 

. Here is’flavar so exceptional,
just one look, one sip, one taste will tell you.
this beer is a classic.

©1981.Jos. Schlitz Brewing Company. Milwaukee,Wl

JUNE 1981/TEXAS MONTHLY 231

 




persist today.

However tardy and healthy our re-
discovery of nature may be, the rub comes
when you examine the different values
different people place on the components
of that natural order. Clearly, Angora
goats are the favored beasts in Robin
Giles’s world. Advocates of Compound
1080 observe that no uproar has been
heard over the exterminated rodénts
for which the poison was invented. On
the other hand, as even Giles admits,
“Sheep are exceptionally stupid.” It’s
hard to arouse much passion among neu—
tral parties for a domestic animal that
declines to defend its own young—par-
ticularly when the overproduction of that
animal depresses the fiber market. The ur-
ban environmentalist who marvels at the
resourcefulness of the coyote and re—
sponds emotionally to its graceful lines
and beautiful coat has just one thing in
common with the rancher who finds his
sheep with its liver and heart eaten out:
a mutual inheritance of America’s share
of this continent.

At Hillingdon Ranch Giles and the gov-
ernment trapper killed five of the six
coyotes that left tracks in his pasture this
year. During the first week of the repro—
ductive season he lost very few kids and
lambs to predators. But he grew compla-
cent, and that one survivor has begun to
hurt him. If coyotes ate the entire carcass
of the animals they kill he would be able
to absorb the losses, but unfortunately,

they usually eat only the vital organs,
so they have to kill often. As for the
larger picture, some things are clear.
Despite the agriculture lobby’s efforts to
present a united front, cattlemen and
farmers don’t perceive coyotes as a threat
to their livelihood. Unless coyotes over-
populate themselves into a plague, cattle-
men and farmers are willing to coexist
with them. That restricts the problem to
sheep and goat territory.

It’s equally clear that in the current
political climate federal bureaucrats are
convenient fall guys. While U.S. Fish and
Wildlife has ﬂip-ﬂopped erratically in its
philosophy of predator control, so has the
political sentiment that determines the
agency’s course of action. The parent In-
terior Department created its own credi-
bility problems with ranchers by its abrupt
turnabouts on sodium cyanide guns and
further investigation of 1080 collars. The
alternating impulsiveness and rigidity of
that bureaucratic structure need to be cor-
rected, but the regulatory authority of
predator control belongs exactly where it
is today. Wildlife management is too vir-
ginal a science to entrust to the agri-
cultural interests that have most to gain
from elimination of problematic species.
And on federal public lands administered
by the Interior Department, the interests
of all wildlife should'rate higher priority
than the expectations of ranchers who
desire the privilege of grazing rights.

Of course, that’s easy for Texans to

 

If you dream of owning mountain property

with anexceptional 360° View, of having a'
mountain home where Colorado’s beauty is
unmarred by overdevelopment and tourists,

then come home to MESA ANTERO.

Outstanding year-round activities are near-
by: skting, hiking, fishing, hunting, rafting,
and more. Denver is close by car (21/2 hours),
asisColorado Springs (2 hours); a general
av1ation airport is located in nearby Salida.

Discover MESA ANTERO, for a mountain
retreat that isn’t in a crowded condominium

community.
And, remember, It’s our secret!

Obtain the Property Report required by
Federal law and read it before signing any-
thing. No Federal agency has judged the
merits or value, if any, of this property.

232 TEXAS MONTHLY/JUNE 1981

*Choice wooded and
creek lots of 2-4 acres.

*Finished mountain
homes or build your own.

*In central Colorado’s
most breathtaking valley,
between Salida and
Buena Vista.

*Where prices are as
‘ low as they were in Aspen
and Vail years ago.

For information, call or write:

MESA ANTERO

5580 LBJ Freeway, suite 530
Dallas, Texas 75240 214/239-8133

 

say, because we have no federal public
lands. We have no coherent state policy of
predator control either. In congressional
hearings last year, the state’s only official
spokesman was agriculture commissioner
Reagan Brown, who delivered a pre-
dictable—if somewhat hysterical—per-
formance. The state’s philosophy is so
antiquated and one-sided that the mecha-
nism still exists for reinstitution of the
county wolf clubs’ bounty programs,
which lapsed less than a decade ago.
Luckily for coyotes, few commissioners’
courts can now afford to exchange cash
for scalps and ears.

But our politicians take their signals
from us. The problem is that the conflict—
ing messages are so narrow and extreme.
The conservationists are so urban in
outlook that even though they are
knowledgeable in science, they are woe-
fully ignorant of local history and
economics. They have little appreciation
for the fact that mohair goat ranching is
one of the few occupations left that is
uniquely Texan. It is also one of the very
few agricultural enterprises whose practi-
tioners don’t benefit from a price support
system. The market price for mohair since
the early seventies has exceeded the
federal support price. These absolutists
try to dictate policy from a distance, with
restrictions on the rancher but none on the
predator, and they seldom stop to con-
sider that ranchers also deserve the chance
to feed, clothe, and educate their families.
But as often as not, extremists in the rural
camp are just as sour. The masculine code
of their world—coupled with a distinct
hostility toward federally mandated land
use—frequently creates a reaction that’s
spiteful in its paranoia. A logical, in-
formed, and balanced policy of predator
control could be more easily formulated if
each faction would acknowledge the
other’s good intentions.

The issue would be far simpler if
coyotes could be rounded up and con-
fined to wildlife preserves like the big cats
in Africa. Unfortunately, they choose to
breed and eat wherever they can establish
a habitat. Coyotes are too determined and
omnivorous for their own good. One
dispirited rancher in Arizona described his
efforts to hold them out: “It was like try-
ing to dig a hole in the ocean. They came
right back in.” The sheer numbers of
coyotes on this continent afford us the
safety valve of time, but let’s not kid
ourselves about human potential. No
ranchers that I met or heard about on the
Edwards Plateau advocate the eradication
of coyotes. They all want to be able to
say, “Naw, I haven’t had any trouble with
them this year. I know some fellows a
couple of ranches over who may have.”
Therein lies the danger. Our history offers
testimony: we could eradicate the coyote
without intending to. Remember, the
American bison and the passenger pi
geon are among the species once so n1
merous that their extinction seeme
inconceivable.~

 




WWW " [J17 WJWL
thz/ /¢, /// (9/

Canadians Push

Clean Air Plea

By Lance Gay

The Washington Star

WASHINGTON -- A group of Canadians, unhappy with
Reagan administration proposals that would defer any immedi-
ate action on the problem of acid rain, has Opened an office in
Washington to lobby Congress on the issue.

The matter is expected to be on the agenda of issues dis-
cussed by Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau
when he meets with President Reagan here Friday.

“It is not our business to tell you how to redraft the Clean
Air Act. But we can tell you that some of the changes being
considered could result in
greater problems for you,”

said Michael Perley, execu- Focus On:
tive coordinator of the Cana-

dian Coalition on Acid Rain. Acid Rain

Perley said the organiza-
tion, which received funding
for some of its Canadian operations from the government there,
Opened an office in Washington in May to campaign for strong
measures to combat acid rain problems.

Perley said none of the coalition’s U.S. activities are fi-
nanced by the Canadian government. Funds for them, he said,
come from Canadian tourist and vacation industries that con-
tend lakes and forests in their country are being devastated by
airborne pollutants carried across the border in the form of
acid rain.

Acid rain is believed to be caused by the combination of
water in the air with sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide.

Although there is still disagreement among US. scientists
on the exact causes of acid rain, Perley said the Canadian gov~
ernment has accepted evidence that industrial pollution is the
culprit and in Ontario has begun to put stringent curbs on air
pollution created by domestic sources.

A recent Cabinet-level memorandum, written by US.
Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Anne Gorsuch,
indicated that the administration is considering major amend-
ments to the Clean Air Act that would reduce federal authority
over long-range transportation of pollutants.

She proposed that a 10-year government study of acid rain
and its causes be accelerated to meet the Canadian complaints.

Perley said further studies of the issue would not be well
received in Canada, where the citizens are alarmed that the
acid rain problem is adversely affecting the forests and tourist
attractions close to the borders.

“There are 48,500 lakes at risk in the area and 140 are al-
ready terminally acidified because of this,” he said. He main-
tained that the fragile soil in the area cannot sustain the effects
of airborne pollutants, and he said that the scope of the prob-
‘ lem violates several U.S.-Canadian agreements.

 

 

Furthermore, Perley said, US. insensitivity to Canadian
interests in curbing the transportation of airborne pollutants is
already affecting previously friendly relations between the two
nations.

Under the Carter administration, the EPA last year took
the first preliminary steps toward issuing new regional stand-
ards that could have forced larger industries and utilities to
curb the amount of pbllutants put out of their tall stacks.

 




THE ATLANTA CONSTITUTION

For 1 12 Years the South’s Standard Newspaper .

 

James M. Cox. Chairman 1950-1957—James M. Cox Jr. Chairman 1957-19—7:

 

Tom Wood
President

Jim Minter
Executive Editor

Hal Gulliver
Editor

John Schaﬂner
Managing Editor

PAGE 6-A, THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1981

Studying Dog Fights

There is not much more disgusting to
civilized people than the abuse of animals
for the entertainment and financial ,reward
of humans. Dog fights come to mind ﬁrst.
And that’s why it’s good to see that a sub-
committee oi the state House has been
formed to investigate this despicable prac-
tice.

“The purpose of the subcommittee will
be to see what needs to be done to the Geor-
gia law so that this type of crime and inhu-
mane activity cannot thrive in our state,”
said Rep. Howard Rainey, chairman of the
House Game, Fish and Recreation Commit-
tee.

The committee formation grows out of
an incident in March in which a raid on a
farm near Augusta resulted‘in the arrest of

18 people at a dog fight. Charges included
not only cruelty to animals, but also gam-
bling, carrying a concealed weapon, posses-
sion of marijuana, cocaine and untaxed liq. ‘

uor or beer. So, it’s clear that the activity
attracts a lot of unsavory characters.

Five of the 10 dogs seized as evidence
had to be put to death because of their in-

juries. Rainey said one way of training dogs
for these events is to put a kitten between

two of the canines and have them iightior

the feline.

No human being of cOnscience could

,j condone, much less take part in such a sorry
spectacle. Rainey’s subcommittee will see :1

what needs to be done to strengthen the law

against dog fights. Here’s a vote for making .

it a felony with tough penalties on behalf of "

the animals who can‘t speak for themselves.

 




3833 3:623 Nam
a. 3:53: mnonmE< m5 2m Sn
dmaB 8:8 Eganom anon

V k . _
ﬁfe. war. y a;

 




wrekedly grinning .,. 1| . .
dmllehegx-a 1 f : 1 r-
. argeyleearvednutof ._
to the Parhament Buildings. Every day as'he enters the‘hu
Way into werk the beast reminds Roberts thathe 31:31??an
his mission to stopamd rain. - -r r‘ -' '_ - *t
. The dragdn‘ s decline is :remc Shortly after Roberbwas reppd ' , ,
“anvirenment minister a little more thaga year ago. he traveled it) the
States and frequently pomted out that the Statue eﬁibertygxias‘ ‘
was his way of drlvmg home

. ) .
ﬁrg'” -‘..

problem a: this country

Ashe talks in his, ofﬁce. not far from mthe ,
mirth "

 




Photography: Brian Knoll -

Photography. including cover: Bob Anderson

 

 

 

 

At ﬁrst glance. Roberts’ committed
transborder campaign to halt acid rain
seems a little surprising. The slightly
rotund 47-year-old minister' is the first to
admit he’s not the outdoor type: “I‘m
entirely an indoor person. I venture
outside very rarely. usually after dark."
Nor has he ever been labeled an
environmental crusader. His doctorate. at
Oxford. was in political philosophy. His

 

Fish have been wiped out
in 100 lakes in the
Adirondack Mountains of

~ New York

 

 

 

career has centred on Ottawa. first as a
foreign service officer in External
Affairs. then as a cabinet minister’s
executive assistant. and finally. after the
1968 election. as a federal politician. (He
was defeated at the polls twice. in 1972
and 1979.) He has a reputation as an
intellectual with an avid interest in the
arts. He prefers reading to hiking. theatre
to camping. and he hates fishing.

Indeed. his initial reaction to the term ‘

“acid rain” was comical. He thought it
was the name of a rock band Only later.
after he had been appointed minister (in
March last year) and had been briefed by
his officials. did he come to understand
just how horrendous a problem he faced
His attitude has changed from indif-
ference to total involvement.

Roberts’ chance to win his acid rain
campaign will come in June, when
formal negotiations are scheduled to get

underway between Canada and the
United States. The aim of the talks is a
treaty to reduce drastically the emission
of pollutants that cause acid rain on both
sides of the border. What needs to be done
to eradicate the toxic fallout is clear".
what is mquired is the political will to
do it. .

Working quietly in Washington. back-
ing up Roberts’ efforts. is a Canadian lob
byist who was hired by a coalition of

Canadian environrhentalists, conserva-

tionists and spertsmen (see box).
Although these people admire Roberts.
they are convincedthat because he’s a
politician — and an ambitious one — his
efforts to clean up acid rain are neces—
sarily compromised He has disappointed
environmentalists on several occasions.
particularly the day President Reagan
arrived on Parliament Hill during the
course of his ﬁrst official visit to Canada
in March. Roberts. who. according to
organizers. had repeatedly promised to
take part in an' acid rain demonstration.

 

Bass, walleye and salmon
are among the first to go

teemed with salmon are now denukd of
the fish

The cruel pattern of acid rain follows
the simple truismthat what goes up must
come down. What goes up are oxides of

 

 

 

 

 

failed to appear -at the last moment.
saying he had other commitments
Nevertheless. the minister knows that
there’s little time to waste. As he learned
in those early briefings. 140 Ontario lakes
are dead. or almost dead. because of acid
rain -— and acid snow and sleet. Another
48,000 lakes within the province are
sensitive to such an ecological holocaust.
In Nova Scotia. nine rivers that once

 

NICE No MORE

. . . ,

‘.. r 1-" ‘ “r
"5’ .

s “

,_ ‘a - :
.r‘ , ;. g l
. .
.. ' - ‘ i"? '
us,‘ . . - v. r .r
‘. t '1 “”1"“; -
... ; , . ; .. . . i,
, .‘ _ r .. . . N},
. ». ‘_t ‘ o -
, .r 3. -. --; . . , .
I ., . ~ - .

Adele Hurley has a new job in Washington badgering politicians about acid rain

 

 

 

When Adele Hurley was asked by a
coalition of Canadian environmental
groups to prepare a strategy for sending a
lobbyist to Washington. she started her
report by warning. "Being nice is not
going to get us anywhere.” She quoted the
journalist and author Warner Troyer.
“The problem with Canadians is that
they’re terminally nice."

So Hurley. 28. who has all the niceness
of a grizzly hear. was despatched to
Washington last April to carry the fight
against acid rain to Ronald Reagan. Now

 

comfortably settled in a small Wash-
ington office strategically located on the
comer of 18th and K streets. just 10
minutes by train from Capitol Hill and
just around the corner from the Canadian
embassy. she’s in an ideal position to
represent the coalition’s 825.000 Cana-
dian members. who comprise 15 orga~
nizations representing sportsmen. cot-
tagers. wildlife lovers and environmen-
talists among others. — ,
The move to join forces came in
November 1979. when more than 800.

 

 

At present the Great
Lakes are protected by
limestone

 

 

 

sulphur. released from coal-fired power
plants and smelters. and oxides of
nitrogen. discharged from automobiles
In the sky. these emissions combine with
moisture to form weak sulphuric and
nitric acid — or acid rain — which,
inevitably. must come down. often
hundreds of miles away.

Some lakes are buffered against the
rain They contain limestone. which
neutralizes the acid In other lakes.
including many in eastern Canada and
throughout the Canadian Shield. there
are no buffers. They are susceptible to an
acid overdose. When that happens. fish
stop reproducing and die Later. Ms.
aquatic insects and other organisms die
too. Slowly. the aquatic life systems
supporting ducks. Icons, otters, mink and
other wildlife also vanish .

Building surfaces. especially limeston
and masonry (like the gargoyle where
Roberts works). are vulnerable. And
there is evidence that certain agricultural
crops. like radishes. beets. carrots and
broccoli. are adversely affected by the
rain. Theacid couldalsoberaining losses

'on Canada's $19-billion-a-year forest

industry.

concerned Canadians and Americans
gathered at Toronto’s downtown Holi-
day Inn to attend the Action Seminar on
Acid Precipitation Present among the
delegates was john Fraser, the Conser-
vatives’ environment minister. He later
suggested to a few key organizers that a
grassroots lobby would be needed to
convince Americans to take action on
acid rain.

In the weeks and months that fol-
lowed. over cups of coffee at dinner
parties. plans for the coalition were
hatched. discreetly. until the ﬁnancing
and office space in Washington had been

ed

arrang

ington in April. she knew her job would
be difficult “You can’t put a microphone
up to a lake." she says. "but somebody has
to speak for our lakes” Much of her time
now is spent on Capitol Hill talking to
senators’ aides. legislative assistantsand
anyone else who will listen. Because of a
Canadian policy that prevents federal
and provincial representatives from tes-
tifying before Senate and congressional
hearings. she is also arranging for other
Canadian experts. many from univer-
sities. to fly down and address the
hearings on revisions to the American
Clean Air Act. And. while the Canadian-
U.S. negotiations on an acid rain treaty
will take place behind closed doors. she'll
be doggedly working behind the scenes
After several years as an environmen—
tal researcher at Pollution Probe and for

 

When Hurley departed for Wash-_

 

The costs of a cleanup to stop acid rain
in Canada would amount to an estimated
$5 billion over the next 10 years With
industry on both sides of the border
unwilling to ‘pull its weight unless
ordered. the decisions are being left to
legislators. Once briefed. Roberts quickly
moved into action. Not surprisingly. his
main targets were American polluters.
who release about 28 million metric tons
of sulphur dioxide and 24 million tons of
nitrous oxide a year compared to the 5
million tons of sulphur dioxide and the
2 miilion tons of nitrous oxide being
generated in Canada.

At the minister’s urging. MPs estab—

Thxic metals are
released, contaminating
water

 

 

 

 

lished a special parliamentary subcom-
mittee that visited Washington and urged
U.S. congressmen to deal with the
American acid rain makers To make
ordinary Americans more aware of the
pollutant (the issue lmsn’t received the
same amount of publicity in the United
States as in this country). Roberts had
cabinet colleagues instruct customs of—
ficers at border-crossing points in
Ontario, Quebec and New Brunswick to
distribute brochures about acid rain.
More important. he personally trav-
eled to Washington last August and
signed a memorandum of intent with
US. Secretary of State Edmund Muskie
that agreed to begin serious negotiations
early next month. The two men decided

Ontario Liberal Leader Stuart Smith.
Hurley. who has a master’s degree in
environmental studies. is familiar with
the long hours and frustrations of
attempting to protect the environment
through politics. When she worked for
Smith. it wasn’t unusual for her to’carry a
change of clothes to the office and work
through the night. Now. though. she’s in a
David and Goliath situation — up against
scientists working for powerful coal and
electric power interests who argue that
acid rain is either a myth or a phe-
nomenon with no immediate harmful
consequences

There’s also the possibility that politi-
cal attitudes in Canada could change —
and standards controlling sulphur and
nitrous oxide emissions be relaxed Then
Hurley will be left ineffective and on the
defensive. To try to prevent this from
happening. the coalition’s executive co-
ordinator for Canada, Michael Parley.
has become the coalition's lobbyist in
Toronto. "We have to be able to say to
Americans we’re cleaning up our own
back yards.” says Perley. “so it's impor-
tant there's no one knifing us in the back
in Canada."

The two lobbyists have $140,000.
sufficient funds to do their jobs for a year.
After that. events are uncertain.
Although both are fearful of failure.
they’re determined their struggle will
have a happy ending. As Hurley says: “In
the story of David and Goliath. remember
who won”

 

'I‘ODAY/ 18

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Illustrations: David Cousins

 

 

to set up five task forces. comprising
Canadian and American scientists. en-
gineers. economists and diplomats To-
gether, it was hoped. they would reach a
consensus on the technical complexities
of the pollutant. so a treaty could be more
easily negotiated. Roberts, wearing a red
and white lapel button reading STOP
ACID RAIN. wasin fine spirits that dayin
Washington. Under the glare of televi-
sion lights, surrounded by a crowd of
journalists. congressmen and Canadian
ofﬁcials. he told his audience that the
signing of the memorandum was “an
extraordinarily important step forw . ."

But that was last August. If Roberts

 

Ore smelters and
coal-fired power plants
are major causes

 

 

 

could only have predicted the future. he
might have said one step forward. two
steps back. Since then, Ronald Reagan
has been sworn in as president. and with
him came a new regime. Environmen-
talists who worked under Jimmy Carter
have been turfed out. The memorandum
stands. but suddenly the chances of
signing an acid rain treaty seem remote.

The Republican president has never
been overly enthusiastic about protecting
the environment. Indeed if his election
campaign statements are to be believed.
he seems downright insensitive. He
mocked environmentalists during the
election campaign. saying that if they had
their way. “we’d all be living in rabbits’
holes and birds’ nests.” As governor of
California he once complained. “A tree is
a tree. How many doyou need to look
at?" More seriously. he told Ohio coal
miners during the election that he would
do away with many environmental
regulations because they were crippling
the economy. He also invited steel and
auto companies to help rewrite the Clean
Air Act. which protects the environment
from industrial pollutants

Once settled in the White House.

 

THE ACID TEST

 

~.~_.‘..-~ _’ ....
I

 

...............................................................
........ . ..-..............-....-........................-........
.................................................................

' "5::5:353:2:Wmi°mf3"3mdNUS;:::..:::::::::::::::::........::::::::::::

 

 

 

 

 

Polluted rainwater in the United States is almost as strong as battery acid

 

Of late. Roberts has started to talk
tough. Canada has acted to cut back on
transborder acid rain. he says. Now he’ll
be “pressing for performance” from the
United States. He quickly rattles off how
we’ve managed to clean up our own act in
the past year. For a start. Parliament
passed amendments to Canada's Clean
Air Act that enable Ottawa to clamp
down ,on industrial polluters whose
emissions are causing acid rain south of
the border. Then. the 1980-81 federal
budget for scientific research into acid
rain was increased from $4 million to
$11.5 million.

In the meantime. Inco Ltd. the conti-
nent's largest single source of sulphur
dioxide, was ordered by the Ontario
government to reduce emissions at its
Sudbury smelter by 25% within the next
two years. in the first stage of amaior
cleanup. More recently. Ontario Hydro.

 

the second largest scurce of the pollutant
in the province. agreed to spend $500
million over the next decade to reduce
emissions by 40%. .

In return. Roberts hoped for stricter
controls on American industry, especial-
ly on plants in the northeast that spew out
sulphur dioxide emissions. which fall as
acid rain showers in Canada. Instead
controls have been relaxed.

Heading into the negotiations with
Washington. Roberts tells a joke to
describe the approach he'll be taking. It's
about a farmer who boasts that he always
treats his animals well. One day. while a
visitor watches. the farmer picks up a 4x4
and clouts his prize bull over the head
“But I thought you said .. .” says the

. visitor. “I know.” replies the farmer. "but

first you have to catch their attention."
“That’s what we have to do: bash
people. figuratively of course. with a 4x4

in order to get their attention.” says
Roberts. Diplomacy can come later. A
massive publicity campaign was de-
signed last winter to catch American
attention. In February. more than 500
slick press kits were mailed to the
,American news media. Among others.
Ken Taylor. America's Canadian hero,
still well remembered for aiding in the
escape of six US. embassy staff members
in Iran and now Canada's consul general
in New York. has been recruited to make
speeches about the ravages of acid rain.
To help lobby Washington. Roberts
and his officials are trying to enlist the
supportof large American associations

 

Car exhausts spew out
oxides that are converted
. into acid rain ' ‘

such as the Sierra Club. an association
with 193.000 members dedicated to
preserving the wilderness; Ducks Un-
limited. whose 400.000 members are
trying to restore marshland; and the
National Rifle Association. a powerful
lobby with 1.8 million members. well
known for its hands-off attitude to gun
control (“We’ll get in bed with anyone
for a good cause." says one federal
bureaucrat)

As for Roberts himself. he's busy with
a schedule of speeches throughout the
United States He has already traveled to
Cleveland. New York and Boston. and
more trips are planned. He intends to
deliver his message to American edi-
torial boards. congressmen and. through
television. the people at large. His
message is similar to a speech he gave
recently to a predominantly American
audience at a meeting of the Air
Pollution Control Association in Mont-
real. “Very bluntly.” he told them. “I see
no reason why Canada‘s ecosystems —
let me be blunter yet - Canada’s people
— should have to pay the price of keeping
the electricity rates of those coal-
producing middle western states well

 

 

 

 

We already have the
technology to control
acid rain

Reagan made clear his intention to
disband the Council on Environmental
Quality. The US. Environmental Protec-
tion Agency was marked for cutbacks
Douglas Costle. who headed the protec-
tion agency and was sympathetic to
Canada’s acid rain concerns. was to be
replaced by Anne Gorsuch. an archcon-
servative. James McClure of Idaho. one of
the toughest anti-environmentalists in
the Senate. is now chairman of the Senate
energy committee, which deals with
important environmental legislation

All is changed. terribly changed.

Clearly uneasy about the new admin-
istration. Roberts tends to downplay
Reagan’s outrageous statements con-
cerning the environment as political
rhetoric. mere campaign claptrap. Yet
increasingly. a border feud over acid rain
looms large. ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pollutants from industries and automobiles can be lethal hundreds of miles away.

 

If the fish go, so will loons,
ospreys and kingfishers

 

 

 

below those now being paid along the
United States eastern seaboard"

Should his campaign against acid rain
fail and negotiations break down. he has
other tricks up his sleeve. Although he
refuses to be specific. taking the Amer-
ican polluters to court is one very real
possibility. Roberts remains optimistic.
though. that this last resort won’t be
necessary. It would be foolhardy. he
believes. to expect we won't get coopera-
tion from the Americans. Admittedly.
he's uneasy. But he‘s also convinced that
acid rain poses such environmental
horrors that Americans will be obliged to
listen. Scare stories won't be necessary. “I
don‘t want to take a Chicken Little
approach and suggest the sky is falling."
he says. “because it's not.

“I do want to make sure Americans
know the facts. that acid rain isn't just our
problem. it‘s their problem too.” I

 

TODAY] 19

 

 




Animal rights:
A tempest in
the barnyard

By Paul Weingarten

.First of two articles.

N A RECENT visit to a Downstate

swine farm, a group of visitors

entered a gestation room, where

' pregnant pigs are segregated in 2-

foot-by-“i-foot stalls that allow them enough
room to stand, move back and forth a little,
but not turn around. The pigs were taking
an afternoon snooze, but, curiosity aroused,
they lurched to their feet and stuck their
snouts through the bars in greeting. Ray
Hankes, the man who raises the pigs. turned
to his visitors and said, “They look pretty
happy. don’t they?” _

He didn’t really mean it the way it sound.
ed. “Happy” is a word mast animal pro-
ducers avoid these days because it means
nothing but trouble. ,

In the last two decades, many farms-—
including most egg laying and veal 'opera-
tions, and at least a third of the swine
farms—have converted to confinement sys-
tems, where animals are raised indoors.

Confinement is to the farm what micro- .
chips are to computers: Everything is fast-
er, smaller, and more efficient. The systems
help a single farmer raise greater numbers
of animals faster, and in a lot less space.

QUALITY ISN'T necessarily sacriﬁced.
thanks to new diets and genetic tinkering:
Pigs are heavier, yet leaner; broilers
meatier. Gone is the tyranny of the seasons:
Animals can be bred all year round: chick-
ens can lay eggs continously instead of
stopping to moult (shed feathers) in the
winter. Without confinement, many farmers
say they would be out of business.

Confinement also means pregnant sows in
gestation rooms, standing on slatted con-
crete floors that may cause foot problems.
gnawing on the iron bars of the stall out of
restlessness or possibly boredom.

It means five or more chickens in a cage,
all of whom must have their beaks trim.
med—cauterized by a hot iron—to prevent
injuries or death because they naturally
peek at weaker cage-mates _

It means walleyed veal calves chained in
elevated 2-by-7 stalls. slurping a diet high in
carbohydrate and fat. but low in iron and
roughage. so the flesh remains pale, or
“prime" for gourmets.

THOSE IMAGES inﬂame animal welfar-
ists. but are the animals actually suffering?
In recent months, the criticism of con- '
finement systems has escalated. and farm-
ers fear the worst is yet to come. Congress-
--man Ronald Mottl. an Ohio Democrat, intro-
duced a bill last week to create a committee
to study animal husbandry, issues. The
Humane Society. spearhead of the anticon-
finement movement. is preparing a curricu-
. lum guide for kindergarten through sixth
grade pupils, teaching that farm animals
have “inalienable rights,” and suggesting

‘- that confinement may Violate some of those
rights.

 

‘Ii 03.

vim

ltzgvz-W: .
. ' ' - "

U ‘3’ 13’

'.I ~‘ .,;:I.‘—‘.’ a ‘ n
in. 4-4;-.. -.
it _-t~l§u; whi- ' %3‘-\'-' '1
~--.- ~‘.‘ ' -‘. '.1‘

Call chained in narrow stall; An image that haunts anima? \-‘....

For the last few years._m§ni’ farmers and
animal scientists met critiCism of: ignoring
it and hoping it' would go away. Stan Curtis
was not one of them. “It’s a threat," he
savs. “It is a clear threat.”

Curtis is ‘39, bald, portly, and bespecta-
cled. the image of a sedate animal science
professor at the University of Illinois. He is
direct and earnest. with a touch of folksiness
to smooth the starched scientific edges. But
he is a scientist first, a man who prides
himself on precision, a man who relishes the
scientific method: the meticulous, dispas-
sionate search for fact. When it comes to the

animal welfarists. however. he may start
shouting without realizing it.
“I was raised on a general farm in north-

ern Indiana." he says. ‘So I‘ve had contact
_ since I was knee high to a duck with almost

all species of farm animals. . . . We have to

take this movement seriously . . . because

many of these neeole are sincere.

.“They think they‘re doing just what’s
right, but they are utterly naive. They don‘t
’imow where eggs come from, they don’t
know a lot of things. They haven‘t been out
to see how animal production used to be.
We're even coming into an age where people

gins-college don‘t remember animal produc-

tion as it used to be. But we [farmers]
remember how it used to be. We look at
these systems and we say, there are a lot of
things in here that we‘re doing right.”

THE MOTTL BILL is a bombshell. he
says, “because I’m afraid any regulations

. will be designed by a committee of nincom-

poops.” He isn’t smiling.

Each side has studies. each side has facts ‘
and figures; A happy animal produces-
there’s your proof, the farmers sav. The‘
way these “animal machines” are treated,

the welfarists say, they have no choice but
to produce; , . _

 




'Some'ti'rnesthe arguments get out of hand.
Animal scientists point out that dogs and
cats stay largely in confinement. and that
not every human being lives in perfect
conditions so why should animals? Welfar-
ists veer into vegetarianism, proclaim ani-
mals have the same rights as humans——
,including the right net to be eaten—and a .

small trump of “animal ltlx-rationr-t‘ " advo-
cate (nun; farm animal; by lOHt'. it neces-
53!}.

Everyone is EUPSSmtI because.- tln- an
swers remain locked inside the aninials‘
skulls. and St‘lt’hils’n are jtlsl lit-ginnin. to
devise ways to get tin-m out The reseai «ii is
sketchy at best. contradictory in plat-es. and
everything—{termlung—remains opcr. to in
terpretation. Until recently. in tact. little.
research was done on the welfare of con-

- fined animals; most involved improving pro-
ductiyity.

SOVWIIEN IS an animal happy? “We can‘t
_’Sll here and armchair it." (‘vurtis says. "and
neither can the animal weliarists. We need
‘more research. You've got to ask the ani-
"mals if you want the answers. and they‘ll

tell us if we’re smart enough to design
‘ experiments that will answer that question.”

Sometimes researchers get a surprise.
When pigs were allowed to hit a switch to
control the furnace in winter, for example,
they preferred cooler temperatures than
those set by most farmers.

But Michael Fox isn’t impressed. Fox is
an outspoken critic of confinement. and'
head of the Institute for the Study of Animal
Problems in Washington. DC. “Scientists
cannot solve all the problems in farm-

' animal welfare." he says.

“Scientific methods themselves nave in-
trinsic limitations. because scientific tools
are objective. Animal suffering. animal
emotions are subjective, so that our best

. scientific techniques can only get an approxi-
mate indication of animal welfare. This is where
humane ethic comes in. We must give the
animal the benefit of the doubt. Even though we
can’t prove whether or not it needs to turn

-around, for instance, it must be allowed to turn
aroundf’ ‘

IF ANIMAL unhappiness seems self— evident——
of course they’re suffering, how would you like
to be trapped in a stall, how would you like to
have your beak trimmed?—-then Curtis will spit

a $20 word at you: anthropomorphic. It means 4

attributing human characteristics—desires, pref-
erences, dislikes—to animals. Curtis calls it the
Mickey Mouse Syndrome. “Here you’ve got an
animal who can talk and think, and it’s been
beat into us that he’s a people.”

‘ Recently, an editorial in a hog management
journal suggested that hog farmers refrain from
buying napkins with pigs on—them, pig stickpins,
or even Miss Piggy merchandise—anything that
encourages the image of pig as cute, cuddly or
distinctively human.

But some defend anthropomorphism. “It is
ethically valid to put ourselves in the place of
animals,” says Brian Klug, visiting philosophy
lecturer at De Paul University. “Compassion is
the name for it. We do not humanize the animal,
just put ourselves in its place, to respect its
plight The point is not simply whether observa-
ble stress or suffering is registered, but to avoid
suffering.”

7.. ‘V .1....x.--s...._ .. -. ..

".t-L’Ciare '. ‘I 1 a ‘ Inc, v.
trio—we think everything revolves around
humans “1 object to animals being treated as if
they were means to our ends. These are lives.
not just behaviors and functions.”

“I don‘t think Brian Klug has ever been on a
farm,” replies Curtis

THE EVIDENCE so far shows that con-
finement does aggravate some problems. [ And
some evidence is a lot stronger One study by a
Swedish researcher, for example, showed
across-the-board benefits—less disease, better
births, fewer injuries and deaths—for sows in
pens versus those in stalls} '

In confinement, pigs may bite penmates’ tails;
therefore tails are docked, or snipped to a stub,
regularly in the United States. Pigs still bite
[and hens still peck each other] outdoors, but
some evidence shows increased frequency of
“vices” in confinement, and animal welfarists
point to these behaviors—and the “cures”-—as
proof of animal suffering.

In the case of tailbiting. some studies suggest
that high-energy, low-fiber diets are to blame.
Others say it is boredom or restlessness, over-
crowding, or lack of bedding. Scientists so far
have failed to induce tail-biting in experiments.

Pigs also tend to gnaw the bars that confine
them. Some say it’s boredom, but Curtis says it
could be a symptom of frustration or “the sow
may be being resourceful, and if it were out in
the woods it would be picking up twigs and
carrying them around and playing with them. It
doesn’t have a twig so it works on the bar. When
sows have been studied, the total amount of oral
behavior in stall situations as opposed to more
natural situations is about the same.” As
always, interpretation is everything.

The attack on confinement and modern animal
husbandry is a British import that took a while
to catch on here. In 1964, a book called “Animal
Machines” shocked the British into a broad
investigation by the Brambell Committee of
confinement situations. The committee recom—
mended new codes for animal confinement, sug-
gesting that an animal should be able to turn
around, groom itself, get up, lie down, and
stretch its limbs. Those codes weren’t law, but
as a result Britain and some other European
countries, including Switzerland, Denmark, Ger-
many, and Norway, passed stiffer regulations on
tethering, cage sizes and designs, flooring,
feeding equipment, lighting, temperature, and
ventilation.

N0 SMART ANIMAL producer abuses his
animals, because he depends on them for a
living. But outright abuse isn’t the main issue.
More subtle, and infinitely more difficult to
prove, is suffering by deprivation. Are pigs who
never see straw deprive-d? Quin Curtis’ words,

“Does a pig who’s never seen a wallow ever .
dream of a wallow? Has it ever wanted one? Has
it ever needed one?”

Scientists haven’t designed an experiment to
test that yet, but in one study hens kept on straw

. floors or in cages were given the choice of either

a regular wire floor or a. litter floor. The hens
tended to prefer what they knew best, that is,
those kept in cages most often chose the cages.
[Most of the chickens, however, preferred to lay

eggs on the litter floors] Obviously, the results

are far from conclusive. In one followup, for
example, 12 chickens raised in cages were given
a choice of cage or floor pen. Five preferred the
cage, seven the floor pen. .

Some studies attempt to peg animal hap-
piness—or unhappiness—to stress. which in turn
may be determined by certain hormonal levels. J‘
But scientists don’t agree on standard levels,

 




Animal welfare;

A CERTAIN LEVEL of stress is natural.

Barnyard bombshell . . . or Mickey Mouse game?

Bobtailed porkers: In conﬁnement hog operations, tails are docked sho

and even if they did, the readings of an individu-
al animal “go all over the-board in a matter of
minutes,” Curtis says. Another problem is that
the sampling process itself causes stress.

When animals are overcrowded, there is more
stress, more fighting and more dying. But there
may be exceptions: In one study of chickens,
reseachers found as space per chicken de-
creased, aggressive acts increased to a certain
point but then sharply declined with further
crowding, so that more aggressive acts occurred
in medium crowding than in high. [Researchers
are working on new designs for confinement
systems, including those with areas that allow
an animal to “hide” from an aggressor. j

 

rtly after birth.

“There was stress when animals were ranging
around,” Curtis says. “Thank God for an ani-
mal’s ability to cope with stress because it’s
been under a lot more stress than it is now.
Predators, disease, cold, rain, winds. The fact
that an animal responds to a rise in tempera—
ture, or an aggressive group mate, that’s great,
that’s marvelous, that’s the way they cope.
That’s the way you and I cope, by the way.”

Meanwhile, another branch of animal sci-
ence—ethology, or the study of animal beha-
vior—is attempting to find some answers. “But
it’s like looking for a needle in a haystack,”
Curtis says. “These behaviors are so subtle, so
subtle.” Ian Duncan, 3 Scottish researcher,
spent years trying to figure out how a chicken
displays frustration. He covered the hen’s food
so she could see it but not eat it, and then
watched. And watched. And filmed.

Finally he noticed a special preening
moVement by the hen. He reviewed all his old
films, and sure enough, they were all doing it.
With that knowledge, scientists now conclude
that caging’by itself does not severely frustrate
chickens, butxthat overcrowding probably does.
Curtis has attempted similiar experiment with
pigs, but to no avail.

To Fox, many experiments seem unnecessary.
“Curtis will say he doesn’t know if a sow needs
to turn around, but the fact that pigs do turn
around indicates it is part of the pig’s nature.”

AS SCIENTISTS'try to determine how con'
finement affects the natural'behavior of a spe-
cies, they are faced with the problem of just
what is natural to a long—domesticated species.
'Genetic selection has altered natural behaviors,
and so has confinement itself. One study com”
pared the egg productivity of commercial chick-
en breeds of 10 years ago to the current, flock.
They were tested in cages and pens, with vary-
ing levels of crowding—~and in every situation,
the modern hybrid proved more productive.
What it means, says James Craig, professor of
animal science at Kansas State University, “is
chickens are adapting to the stress of cages.”

The farmers, however, aren’t adapting well to
the stress of criticism. “I don’t thinkjt’s right
fOr.someone to come from another country and
criticize us,” says one, referring to Michael Fox,
who is British.

“I have great sympathy for the farmers, who
are an endangered species today,” Fox says,
“and I’ve never met a cruel farmer. But the
bottom line is animal welfare versus economics.

, What we’re after is an ethical, if you like. a

spiritual transformation, of people in the live-
.stock industry and research, [so they will] treat
the animals as animals, not biomachines.”

Tomorrow: Welcome to the modern form.

 




 

 

 

Scientist Stan Curtis with a subject: "We can’t
sit here and armchair it, and neither can the
animal welfarists. We need more research,"

 

Veal pen: Lights on, but pub/ids in the dark ‘

HE RAISING of prime “white veal, ” '

or milk- fed veal calves, is barely two

decades old, but almost every detail

of its operation has been scrutinized
and attacked by welfarists in recent months.
The charges and denials fly, but little re-
search exists on veal welfare.

“‘We’re only talking about a million ani-
mals compared with 4 billion other farm
animals, but it’s a symbol to me of how far
we can go with this rational, mechanistic
thinking, where the scientist and others say
this method is acceptable, but it is ethically
reprehensible,” says Michael Fox, a leading
spokesman for animal welfare.

Calves typically are chained in elevated
stalls, with slatted wood or iron floors
through which waste drops into a pit. Among
the charges:' The calves are tethered to ,
prevent exercise and keep the meat tender.

The producers say it prevents injuries, and
that the age and diet of the calf, not exercise,
keeps the meat tender. The calf, they say, ,
wouldn’t be romping around much even if it
were free. “The calves are happy in the
barn,” says Dr..Robert Blease, a .
veterinarian who has raised veal calves. “If
you put 10 calves in 100 acres, they would.
bunch together, and use only one small
part.”

One of the original practiceS—raising the
calves in the dark—was thought to keep the
meat light, but studies dispelled that and veal
producers say the lights are on now.

THE WELFARISTS charge the calves
should stay with their mothers instead of
being sold to veal farms within days of birth.
The veal producers point out that in the past,
these calves would have been slaughtered
almost immediately, since male Holstein cal~
ves make tough, stringy meat, cannot give
milk, and are not needed for reproduction. .

The calves are fed‘a “milk Ireplacer,”
which is half carbohydrate, about 20 per cent
fat, and the rest protein (from dried skim
milk), vitamins and trace minerals. On the
diet, the calf grows very fast, as much as 3
pounds a day, and IS ready for the market at
16 weeks. If he were allowed to grow more
slowly, the meat would be tougher.

The feed contains very low amounts of
iron——and at seven weeks or so, the iron is
reduced even further, to keep the flesh pale.
[Normally, iron would come from grain in

' the diet. ]

Blease, among others, is currently studying
the iron threshold, or at what point the meat
turns red. Earlier formulas of milk replacers
contained no iron at all, Blease says. Now,
studies .ihdicate that depending on the formu-
la, 20 per cent more iron could. be added
without changing the color of the meat.

IT’S ALL IN the hemoglobin level. Current-
ly, calves going to market show 7 to 9 grams
of hemoglobin per 100 milliliters of blood; 12
to 14 is normal, Blease says, while 7 is
definitely textbook anemic. (At 10, the. meat

begins to turn red. ) Yet some researchers

question the textbook. “If the calf’s hemoglo-
bin level falls to 6 or 7, but he’s still eating,
and he stays healthy, and he seems comforta-
ble, 1 can’t say he’s truly anemic,” says one.

Some of the calves do become anemic, but
most seem to be borderline cases. The wel-

‘ farists say that is cruel. The animal scien-

tists agree’that the calf, at that point, would
not have the stamina to go out in the field
and fend for itself, but they argue that since
it doesn’t have to, what difference does it
make? “Veal calves are getting a balanced
diet,” says Stan Curtis of the University of
Illinois. “Of course they’re not getting the
same diet you would feed an animal you

‘ knew was going to survive beyond four

months of age.’

I

The calf gets very little crude fiber, be-
cause the more fiber, the slower the calf
grows. As a result, the calves must be kept
tethered and apart, otherwise they‘would lick
each other constantly and that could create
hairballs that would block digestion.

The veal producers say the market de-

mands pale veal, even though in one test,

pe0ple could not taste any difference between
white and red veal. But while veal consump-

' tion in this country has declined steadily—the

average American eats less than 2 pounds
annually compared with 6 pounds 1n 1960—4he
consumption of white veal is risings steadily.

Patti Weingarten

 




‘

. t

Are the animals suffering?

 

fOn the modern farm, efficiency’s theword

By Paul ‘ Weingarten

Second of two articles

NSIDE A LONG. low aluminum-'sided

building on Thrushwood Farm lie rows
. and rows of pregnant pigs, each en-
.. closed in a small steel-barred stall
with enough‘room to stand, move back
and forth a foot or so, but not turn
around. There is no straw or mud. Waste
falls through slatted concrete ﬂoors into
a pit. ~

Welcome to the modern farm. _

A few miles across the Central Illinois
prairie,'at Bill Immke’s chicken farm,
49,950 chickens are cooped in an alumi-
num-sided building longer than a football
field. There are seven or eight to a cage,
53.3 square inches per bird, or enough
room to eat, drink, and lay eggs, but not
to fully extend their wings. More than
anything else, it is noisy.

FUrther on, at Art and Phyllis
Hoffman’s veal farm, hundreds of , veal
calves stand in 2-foot-by-7-foot elevated
stalls, held by l- to 3-foot chains. They
are fed a liquid “milk replacer” high in

. carbohydrates and fat but low in iron so

that the ﬂesh remains pale, or “prime.”

It is a far cry from an oink-oink here, a
cluck-cluck there, but on more and more
American animal farms—prominently
veal, chicken, and swine—this is the way
it’s done. ~

FARMERS AND animal scientists call'

them “intensive confinement systems”;
animal-welfare advocates call them “fac-
tory farms.” The designs vary, but the
concept doesn’t: In the past two decades,
science has developed the means for ‘
fewer farmers to raise more animals wh
gain weight quicker, or lay more eggs, .
and get sick less. In 1925, for example,
when confinement cages for chickens
were just becoming popular, it took 8
pounds of feed for one chicken to lay 112
eggs 3 year. By 1975, that chicken pro-
duced twice the eggs at half the compar-
ative cost. ‘

. . In a word: efficiency. Consumers get

abundant supplies of eggs, pork, and veal
« at the lowest possible prices. Farmers

‘ turn a profit—many say it’s the only way
.to stay in business.

‘ 'But what about the animals? Are they

suffering in "the name of efficiency? The

.. “M: rm. ‘.L..T""..:‘..~.: “a. .. _

221%
Tribune photo by Sally Good

Ray Hankes and his son John, 8, 'show a hog pen at Thrushwood Farm.

animal welfarists say yes, the farmers
and animal scientists say no, and in'the
last three years, both sides have turned
up the volume. A showdown is coming,
and the modern farm may be in for some
changes. ‘

THRUSHWOOD IS a modern farm near. .

Fairbury in Livingston County. It has
2,500 pigs today. Each one moves on a
strict schedule, from birth to market in
about six months. On a tour, the first stop
is the gestatioh room for sows in various
stages of pregnancy. Here they are fed

once a day, and given fresh water twice a-

day. Light comes through high 'small
windows. [A sprinkler system sprays a
fine mist for cooling.

Ray Hankes raises these pigs with little

outside help. “My dad used to raise pigs,

and he could raise three or four hundred
a year outside,” he says, “because you’re
always fighting the elements. the mud in
the spring, the cold in the winter. Every-

~.4

thing is harder on both man and beast.
This is easier on man and beast." But. not
easier on the farmer’s investment: The
farm would cost upwards of $1 million to
build today.

On the far side, through a door, is the
breeding room. The temperature remains
at least 80 degrees; at lower tempera-

tures, the boar’s sperm loses potency.

After weaning, sows return to heat in
about a month. A few days after that,
mating begins.

The pigs remain sexually segregated
because “a certain amount of interaction
among females is necessary for a good

strong standing heat,” says Hankes
. one of three partners who own

Thrushwood. “The whole thing is de-
signed with pig psychology in mind. For
instance, we give the sows a lotxof feed
after weaning, so they won’t fight.” At
the rightmoment, iron gates swing open

 




i

i

i to create a third area, for mating.
“It’s not like the old days, when you put sows

in boars’ pens, where it was wet and slippery
and accidents could happen,” Hankes says.
“This insures results.” Conception runs 94 per
cent, an excellent figure. .

IN THE FARROWING house, the sow gives
birth. She'lies in a larger area, 5 feet by 7 feet
overall, although metal fingers extend to limit
her movement, thus ensuring that her piglets
will have optimium access to nipples. It also
prevents her from accidentally rolling over and
crushing a piglet, Hankes says. .

One sow is delivering. The room is dark and
quiet. Tiny, pink, wrinkled babies totter around
the cement stall. One trembles in a corner,
dazed, hardly able to stand. The concrete is
heated on each side of the mother to attract the
babies so theywon’t be accidentaly crushed. It
works, until feeding time. Room temperature is
‘79 degrees. Heat lamps stand ready. Instead of
.slats, the pens have rubber-coated wire grids,
which‘stay warmer

At 3 to 4 weeks, or about 15 pounds, the
piglets are weaned and moved to nurseries
From then on, the pigs, 20 or so to a pen, move
to larger and larger living quarters. Naturally
feisty animals, pigs squabble at first to deter-
mine the leader of the pen. Later, sporadic“
fighting erupts for reasons best known to pigs
The most common target in fights is the tail. If
blood is drawn, a pig can be devoured alive by
its penmates because pigs are omnivorous. To
prevent that, tails are docked, or cut to a stub.

AS VISITORS APPROACH, the pigs squeal in
fright, and retreat, stumbling all over each
other, to the rear of the pen. In a few moments,
one or two courageous ones approach, and
suddenly the whole pen is crowding to the
front, poking snouts in greeting.

The finishing building—which is oak inside,

.not concrete and steel—is the last stop. The

pigs are never mixed into different groups,
because the fight for supremacy would resume.
After earning a Ph.D in animal science from
the University of Illinois, Hankes returned to
the farm in 1974 because that’s where he
wanted to raise his family. This isn’t the same
farm he knew as a child, but he doesn’t think
John, 8, and Betsy, 5, are missing anything.

~ “It’s the overall experience of growing up on a

farm,” he says. And without confinement, they
might all be in the big city. “There’s no way
you could get me to raise 5,000 hogs if they
were all outside,” he says

“We try to provide as much comfort for these
animals as economically possible. We know
they’re better off like this for the vast majority
of the year. Oh, it might be a few nice days in
spring, where they could be out in a nice green
pasture, and look nice out there, and be more
comfortable, but you take the heat, and the
cold and the extremes and those animals would
die if they were outside.” "

,___f

9

 




Poultryman Bill lmmke “Everyone has a stereotype of a farm and s

A FEW MILES AWAY is Bill and Mary
Immke’s chicken farm in Saunemin. The cages
stand in long aisles, stacked three high, mea-
suring 14 inches tall, two feet wide, and 20
inches deep
_ They were designed to hold up to nine birds,
but current population is seven or eight Chick-
ens are irascible, and each cage has its pecking
order. To prevent injuries, half of each bird’s
beak is trimmed, actually cauterized by a hot
iron—a painful process .

The cage floor slopes so that eggs roll onto a
conveyor belt Feed also comes by conveyor,
water in a small cup, which fills automatically
The birds eat 6 tons a day. Beneath each cage
is a slanted sheet to catch droppings, and relay
them to a pit below. An automatic system of
fans and vents controls the temperature and
pressure, so that air is continually sucked. into
the building to dry the manure and prevent
disease. Optimum temperature is 78.

Confined chickens stay cleaner, Immke says,
and it’s easier to check for disease, and make
sure the flock gets enough feed and water.
“They’ve got everything they need here. When
my father had birds, they scratched around in
the dirt and out in the lawn, and he was
probably lucky to get 15 dozen out of that hen
I over 14 months. If .I don’t get 21 or 22, I’m
., going to be disappointed.”

The birds’ production peaked a few weeks
ago at 93 per cent and now is 76 per cent, which
translates to 3,000 dozen eggs a day. (A rate of
93 per cent means on a given day, 93 per cent
of the hens produced an egg.) Each flock
produces for 12 to 14 months before it is sold
for soup, or forced to moult by lowering room
temperature or withholding feed for a short
time. Moulting, however, takes six to eight
weeks, and most chicken farmers merely buy a
‘ new flock every 14 months or so to keep cash
flowing. '

IMMKE, 24, BEGAN business last September
with 50,000 pullets. He paid $2.10 each. The .
building cost $375,000. One of his friends from
the city came to visit before. Immke opened for
business. “He was expecting to see a few cows,
a few pigs, and some chickens running around
but all he saw was a machine shed full of about
$210,000 worth of equipment. Everyone has a

stereotype of a farm and sometimes I have a
hard time explaining this It’s the economy
that’s different You’ve got to have a large

_ farm to turn over capital ”

The lighting is dim, 25 watts, but critical
Chickens lay eggs only when it is light, so
pullets, or female chickens—Immke bought his
at 19 weeks old—begin on an eight-hour laying

' day, and gradually, the lights remain on for 15

minutes more a week until a day lasts i7 hours

Chickens are nervous A camera flash causes ~

a burst of hysteria a great hissing clatter of
wings and legs banging against cages,
neighbors climbing all over each other Some
of them have bare spots on necks and shoulders
from rubbing against the cages, but Immke
says “these birds look happy to me If these
birds were under stressful conditions, there is
no way I could have 200 eggs per hen by 54
weeks. No way I’d get 94 per cent livability at
that age

“I think I’ve gotta look at the birds I can’t
listen to the people who try to compare the
needs of an animal to ours. Birds are one step
above the reptile. I don’t want to say they’re
dumb, but they are more concerned with basic
needs than emotional needs ”

ART AND PHYLLIS HOFFMAN have raised
prime veal in Beecher since 1974. Art was a
mechanic and Phyllis worked in a bank, and
both wanted to move back to the farm. The
veal calves reside in four buildings, all long,
low, and, of course, aluminum-sided. The farm
accommodates 700 Holstein male calves. who,
if they were not here, probably would be killed
a few days after birth because they are not
good meat animals, and they cannot give milk.
(They also aren’t needed for reproduction;
artificial insemination suffices.) “At least I’ve
got 16 weeks to give a little attention to this
calf,” Phyllis says, “and get him to a size
where he’s, you know, it’s a little more
humane. You’re going to eat this animal, I can
understand‘this, but it hurts me to see a baby
go to slaughter.” .

Each calf is chained in a numbered, elevated
wooden stall, with slats for waste. They eat a
specialdiet of “milk replacer,” which is ap-

ometimes I have a hard time explaining It’s the economy."

proximately 50 per cent carbohydrate, 20 per
cent fat, and 25 per cent protein (from milk
powder), with vitamins, trace minerals and
antibiotics added The barn is light, and well
ventilated.

It is feeding time, and Phyllis watches as a
farm hand places a white plastic bucket on a
ledge in front of each animal. They are fed

’twice daily, and they are hungry. “He’s

coming,” she says sympathetically to number
153 They don’t have names, but she talks to
them'. like the family pet ‘

“We love animals,” she says. “You have to
love animals, for sure. They’re just like little
babies They’re restrained because they are
babies, and they would run around and hurt
themselves Of the barnful that just went out,
half never had a chain on, and they never left
their crates They don’t want to, they’re
creatures of habit. Once they’re in here,
they’re happy All they want is their two
meals "

AT NIGHT SHE sets a bar at the front of the
stall to stop them from moving too far forward,
and getting stuck She calls it a crib side She
also leaves a light on at night “I go by
children This is how we raise our calves here.
They should have a night light, because chil-
dren always like a night light ”

In the next barn, she scratches under a calf’s
neck "This is my lover," she says. “He’s such
a sweetheart I don’t think I’m going to get rid

of him ” She laughs "You hungry"" she coos

‘Oh, .he is so sweet, he’s such a love In the
mornings he’s always ready for me to pet
him "

Of all confinement operations, veal has
drawn the most intense criticism from animal

’welfarists; even some animal scientists say it

is the least defensible. Phyllis Hoffman doesn’t
think that‘s fair "They say we treat these
animals mean, and that hurts me. We are very
proud of what we do. I don’t think this animal
could get more love or attention anywhere else.
My mind wanders back ‘to the storms we’ve
been having. We had a hail storm a week ago.
and when I was in the barn. I’d tell these
calves—I talk to them quite often. I tell them.
“You’re very fortunate you’re in this barn.”

 




PACIFIC NORTHWEST - July/August 1981

 

 

Scannings

 

 

 

Bombs Away!

30 Seconds over Sea Lion Rock

I is morning on Sea Lion Rock, a

lonely ﬁat-topped reef in the Washing-
ton Islands Wilderness Area and National
Wildlife Refuge. A couple of sea lions
doze in the ﬁltered sunlight. Gulls perch
nearby, heads tucked down. Resting
cormorants lazily stretch their wings
to dry.

Suddenly, an A-6 attack bomber hur-
tles into the calm. It blasts over the rock
at an altitude of barely 500 feet, traveling
some 480 mph. Sea lions, gulls and cor-
morants scatter in panic. This is one of
the days Sea Lion Rock is no longer a
refuge: Today the US. Navy is using it to
practice its bombing and straﬁng tech-
niques.

The fact that the United States is bomb-
ing one of its own wildlife refuges is a
result of years of complicated bureau-
cratic interplay and failures to communi-
cate. Theodore Roosevelt established
Washington’s coastal islands as a wildlife
preserve in 1907, and in 1970 they were
added to the nation’s wilderness system.
But during World War II, acting Depart-
ment of Interior Secretary Abe Fortas
gave the Navy emergency permission to
bomb and strafe four of the islands. After
the war the Department of Interior with-

drew permits for three of the islands, but
not for Sea Lion Rock. No more was said
for nearly 30 years. Bureaucrats retired;
ﬁles grew dusty.

The US. Fish and Wildlife Service
did not know it, but during those 30
years the Navy was regularly sending
aircraft thundering over Sea Lion Rock.
Fish and Wildlife ofﬁcials may never
have found out if the Navy had not sent
the refuge manager a letter in 1978
announcing its intent to expand the re—
stricted area.

Fish and Wildlife staff members were
stunned. They immediately tried to re-
voke the old permit. but ofﬁcials high in
the Department of Interior intervened.
Last December Lynn Greenwalt, the
director of Fish and Wildlife at that time,
decided that since there was no tangible
evidence of damage to wildlife or its
habitat, bombing the island was a “com-
patible use” for the refuge. Greenwalt
proposed to let the Navy continue bomb-
ing while researchers made a study of its
effects.

The Navy is reluctant to give up Sea
Lion Rock because it makes such a good
target: It is only 80 air miles from the
naval air station on Whidbey Island, it

 

requires no maintenance, and the blip it
makes on aircraft radar screens looks just
about like a ship. Don Rappel. the Navy
man who wrote the ﬁrst environmental
assessment of the situation. says the
word “bombing” is misleading. He
says it conjures up images of “bloody
sea lion carcasses ﬂying through the_
air,” when in fact the 25—pound practice
bombs the Navy uses do not explode.
They just emit puffs of smoke to mark

.the point of impact.

But Bob Everitt, a marine mammal
expert with the Washington Department
of Game, worries about what happens
when the bombs land on or near animals.
and he worries about the endangered gra}
whales that migrate along the Washing-
ton coast each year. Everitt also wonder:
if the Navy does not occasionally bomb
the wrong rock.

Rappel is conﬁdent that never hap-
pens. In fact, he is so sure of the pilots"
aim that he has suggested sending a boat-
load of conservationists out near the
island and arranging a special demonstra-
tion bombing run for them. Surprisingly.
a number of conservationists have volun-
teered to take Rappel up on his offer.

Nancy Thomas

 

 




for ShOWd 0W1]
- With Whalers

By‘REBECCA TROUNSON,‘
Times Staff Writer . . ,

When the rusty, gray trawler Sea
Shepherd II sets sail frbm Los An-
geles Harbor Tuesday, en route to
the Bering Sea and a showdown
with a Soviet whaling ship, it will do
so with an unlikely crew. __

The 25-member team, led by vet -
eran whale-saver Paul Watson, in-
cludes, among others, a stockbroe
ker, a social worker, a chauffeur, a
- plumber, a 'tree surgeon, a movie

projectionist and a disc jockey.

They hail from five countries-
the United States, England, Canada.
Australia and West Germany—but
speak with a single, idealistic voice
about one subject: stopping the
slaughter of California gray whales
by the Soviet ship Zevedny. ’

To that end, Watson, a 30~year~
old Canadian, says his crew is-pre~
'pared to do “anything but injure the. ,
Sowet crew members.” : :

_ The Sea Shepherd group is will-
ing to cause an international ins.

..

cident, Watson said Saturday as he
and his crew repaired and painted
the vessel.

As Watson said, “If the Russians
wang to shoot at us, that’s OK. The
publicity. we would gain from that
would make it worthwhile. For one
thing, it would force our govern-
ments to make some kind of stand
on the whaling issue.”

Watson gained notoriety in 1979
when he rammed his first ship, also
called the Sea Shepherd, into 3 Por-
tuguese whaling ship, the Sierra.
When the Sierra was repaired, oth-
er whale supporters planted a mag-
netic mine on its hull that later ex-
ploded, permanently crippling the
ship.

4 The Sea Shepherd Conservation
Society has sunk at least two other
ships, Watson said.

But his tactics are not condoned
by other environmental organiza—
tions, including Greenpeace, of
which Watson was a founding
member. ,Greenpeace has termed
him a radical and violent.

Watson bristles when he is asked
about the criticism. “We’ve never
injured anybody and we’ve saved
thousands of whales, which is more
than can be said for some of the oth-
er organizations.

“To me, the only legitimate way

. of measuring an organization’s
"worth is in concrete terms.” Watson
Said. “We’ve actually saved at least

. 2,000 whales by putting so many

LOS ANGELES TIMES

July 12, 1981

‘9.

ships out of commission.

“1 just can’t feel too guilty about
damaging several tons of metal and
saving several thousand whales.”

Others in the crew echo his feel-
ings. '

Bob Osborne, 28, a chauffeur from
Washington, D.C., left his well-
paying job with a limousine service
to join Watson’s crew about a month
ago. Asked about his reasons, he
smiles.

“Sometimes I’m not sure. But I’ve
had environmental leanings all my
,life. Once you get caught up in
something like this, you become ob-
sessed with the idea of saving them,
and you become a lifer.”

Others in the crew, including
Australian Peter Woof, 27, joined
Watson after becoming disenchant-
ed with Greenpeace and what he
called “its tendency to shuffle pa-
pers. ,

“I guess you could call mine a
libertarian viewpoint,” Woof said.
“I feel those whales belong to me as
much as anyone else and I want to
see them alive."

The crew will set sail for Van—
couver , B.C., Tuesday. After a one-
day stop to refuel, they will head for
the U.S.-owned St. Lawrence .Is-
land, 60 miles off the Soviet coast.

Once there, they will search for
the Zevedny, slightly smaller than
the ZOO-foot Sea Shepherd, and will
try to stop its killing of whales “any
way we can, excluding the use of
weapons,” Watson said.

Watson claims the Zevedny is ex-
ceeding its quota of 179 60-ton
whales a year and is slaughtering
pregnant whales. He also said the
whale meat is used, sometimes in
violation of international laws, to
feed minks on mink ranches on the
Pribiloff Islands.

The US. position on the subject
has been in favor of a ban on all
commercial whaling. The Reagan
Administration is expected to make
its first presentations on whaling
July 20 at an International Whaling
Commission meeting in Brighton,
England.

Watson would not discuss his in-
tended tactics but said the ship will
remain in the area at least a week.
long enough for the whales to leave
the area for their annual September
migration south.

“All we want to do is interfere
with the whaling process and
thereby buy the whales enough
time to move south and out of dan-
ger,” Watson said.

He conceded that his plan is risky
and said he has discussed the risks
with his crew. “We’ve decided
we’re willing to take the risks to
protect this species. Other people
fight wars over property. To me, it’s
more honorable to try to save an
endangered species.”

The crew of the Sea Shepherd II
will hold a public fund-raiser on
board the ship today at Berth 57 at
Los Angeles Harbor.

 

 

 




4'05 Hazel/5155 M455 743““

. Surprise Friend of the Whale

Yet it is untrue that Interior Secretary James G.
Watt sees nothing in nature worth preserving. The
man whom many regard as the Jonah of the eco-
logical ethos has a soft spot in his heart for whales,
and he favors a worldwide moratorium on the

further commercial slaughter of the leviathans.

" Watt’s attitude is surprising, because he has
been grossly insensitive on most other issues af-
fecting wildlife, but we have it from one of his
closest friends that he thinks whales are “gentle,
beautiful creatures” that must have international
protection. '

That friend is Tom Garrett, a fellow native of
Wyoming who has been serving the past five years
as deputy U.S. whaling commissioner. Their
friendship—and Watt’s concern for cetaceans—
came to light recently when the interior secretary
issued a news release nominating Garrett, a lead-
ing authority on whaling history, for the top posi-
tion on the commission.

But that appointment does not belong to Watt. It

belongs to Commerce Secretary Malcolm Bald- '

ridge, and it normally goes to the scientist who
serves as director of the National Oceanographic
and Atmospheric Administration.

. Baldridge was upset for a time over Watt’s inva-
smn of his home waters, but he finally agreed to
appomt Garrett acting commissioner and also head
of the US. delegation to the July 20-25 session of
the international Whaling Commission in Bright-
on’i‘llil‘ngland. - .

p e timing of the bureaucratic s uall was -
tunaterbecause it sent confusing signals to Aunrigﬁ-
. Ea s 3111168 on thte international commission, which

as e power 0 restrict or

whaling. suspend all forms of

On the face of it, Garrett’s selection des i '
ObVlOUS qualifications, might seem to indIic'aetem:
change in US. policy favoring an indefinite

embargo on all commercial whaling in all oceans. '

Garrett is close to Watt, and Watt is 'close to Pres-
ident Reagan, who is trying to improve relations
with Japan. And Japan, the last major whaling na-
tion, Will be tlus country’s chief adversary at

Brighton. The question: Will Garrett try to ap-
pease the Japanese by softening the U.S. position?

The Japanese are applying considerable pres-
sure in Washington. Lobbyists for its whaling in-
dustry have been uttering all sorts of dire threats.
They point to the recent hit-and-run sinking of a
Japanese freighter by a US. nuclear submarine, to
stormy protests over the presence of US. nuclear
warships in Japanese ports and waters, and to
resentment over US. moves for a reduction in
Japanese auto exports.

Their warnings are clear. If the US. persists in

its anti-whaling position, an already volatile situa-

-' tion could become much Worse.

But Garrett has told us that none of this will
affect his leadership of the delegation, and that it
will press hard for the world moratorium.
Environmental organizations take him at his word
because of his long and consistent opposition to
whaling. ,

' The mOratorium is long overdue. Most experts
agree that the population of almost all commercial
species has fallen to a point threatening their
extinction. There would be no world market for
whale oil and meat if it were not for Japan, which
subsidizes not only its own ﬂeet but also those of a
number of other nations.

The fact is that cheap and abundant substitutes

exist for all whale products, and J apan’s insistence
that whale meat is vital to the Japanese diet as a
source of protein is highly questionable. Whale
meat produces only 0.1% of protein in the J apa-
nese diet, and most of it is fed to convicts, soldiers
and schoolchildren, who have no choice in the
matter.
. But the US. effort to halt all commercial whaJ - '
mg may not succeed in Brighton. Japan, as in the
Past, will bring all its economic clout to bear on
smaller member nations.

Yet the mounting deficits of Japan’s own fleet,
which finds fewer and fewer of the giant mammals
to slaughter, suggests that attrition—if not world
Protest—signals the early end of all commercial

whaling.

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King.Arthur Court, N. E.
.Atlanta, Ga. 30345

July 26, 1981

Honorable Ronald Reagan
The President

The White House
Washington, D. C .

Dear Mr. President:

Have just read the story in the Los Angeles Times of the letter you wrote to
the child who was concerned about the killing of the seals in Alaska. And as
a true politician.you answered him.with a lot of niceties, but never giving the
child the answer he desired — that the killing cease. So it will continue so
the Fouke Fur Co. of S. C. can continue to grow rich on the vanity of women.

I do not expect an.answer to this letter. I'm a 64-year old executive secretary
who has been concerned over the needless killing of our wildlife and our environ-
ment for more years than I care to remember, but I can see a little improvement.
I guess the biggest is that the young people of the world are becoming more and
more concerned over the contamination of the air we breathe, and our waters and
streams, and the destruction of the habitat for our wildlife. And therein lies
the answer. I don't expect to see any great progress in my lifetime, but I know
it is coming, and I am grateful for that.

I want to thank you for your letter to the International Whaling Commission, even
though I understand they paid little heed to it. However, I can even understand
that; people are reluctant to phase out their old ideas, and Japan is one nation
who persists in living in the past since the products obtained from.the whales
are obtainable through other sources. It's so much easier to kill an animal than
to find out its reason for being.

It is my earnest hope that you will heed the recommendations of those who are

far more knowledgable than I, and fire Interior Secretary watt. Of all the

‘wrong things I am sure you have done in your political life, this has to be the
worst mistake you have ever made. Here is a:man.who has shown by his actions
that he definitely favors big business, regardless of what the American citizen
wants. He shows that time and time again. His idea of turning Public Land over
to dil the states to manage is one of the worst thingsl have heard any politician
make. This would be the most distastrous thing which could happen. In the first
place, most of this land never belonged to the states, or it was land the states
never wanted and could not manage. I can see the development which would take
place if this ever happened, and I don't believe the American taxpayer is going -
to stand by and let this happen, regardless of the so-called laws being passed

by the "Sagebrush Rebellion” states. Naturally, since watt comes from that area
and has been close friends with those western Governors, he is willing to go along
with them. I just hope our Congress has guts enough to put hands down on.suCh

a move.

His opening our offshore to drilling in the face of direct opposition of the
residents of those states is an outright act of contempt fer them and their

wishes . I am glad to read in the Wall Street JournalOf 3111)’ 6 that he has backed

 




-2-

off to a certain extent. We all know only too well of the disastrous effects of
(i1 spills in our waters. And I understand a new study by the National Academy
of Sciences, prepared by 16 experts, representing major oil companies, research
institutes and environmental groups, concludes that oil exploration along the
California coast and in other areas poses potential hazards to ocean organisms
from oil spills, blowouts and pipeline problems. The report disagrees with views
expressed by watt who says offshore drilling poses no environmental threat.

Where does he get his knowledge? Just another good reason.why this man should be
dismissed.

 

The world showed little concern fer the environment until Rachel Carson wrote
"Silent Spring", and awakened the public to just what man has been doing to the
environment fer decades. Thank God for that woman. Is everything achieved by
concerned people over the past few decades going to be eradicated by a non—
caring, so-called "born again Christian"? This nan.needs to re-read his Bible
and find out that a true christian has a love and concern for all God's creatures,
those with four legs or more, as well as those with two.

We read constantly about the air pollution, and I understand it is your idea to
let down on our air quality standards over the next few years. The L. A. Times of
July 12 carries a small story "Pollution Toll on Crops Hits $1 Billion”. This is
just ONE case of something that is no doubt happening all over the country. How
can we afford NOT to enforce our air quality laws?

Another story in the L. A. Times of July 8, ”Rep. James Florio said the federal

Environmental Protection Agency has withheld fUnds fOr cleaning up abandoned chem-
ical waste dumps-apparently in response to White House pressure through the Office
of Management and Budget.” I agree with Rep. Florio that "it is unconscionable
for the health and safety of thousands of people to be threatened unnecessarily."

Another good reason to dismiss watt - now in disregard of public and congressional
opinion, he says he is recommending that you revoke a 1972 order protecting federal
lands from damage inflicted by off-road Uehicles. Over the past few years I keep
reading constantly about the excessive damage to the desert of Southern California
from off~road vehicles, and the fact that there is never sufficient personnel to
protect this fragile land from OR.vehicles. Instead of revoking this order, funds
should be allocated to hire the necessary personnel to see that this land is pro-
tected. .And there are reports continually of OR.vehicles in the wintertime harass-
ing our wildlife, and oftimes running the animal to its death. This is recreation2?
I'd take a great deal of pleasure in doing the same thing to the OR vehicle driver
myself.

The states have an abyssmal record of protecting the Public Land within their own
boundaries, and that is why the federal government took this over in the first
place. If the states truly protected this land, I don't think thereis an.Ameri-
can taxpayer who would not support the idea, but sadly, experience and history has
shown otherwise. I can already see the condominiums, parking lots, shopping malls,
hotels, motelSsin.my'mind's eye.

The latest atrocity to be visited by Interior - if they aChieve their goal, is to
round up 10,000 wild horses per year. I understand pressure from the minority
cattleman and sheepman is bringing this about. When I think of the work of'Velma
Johnston of Nevada for 20 years, to try and protect this wild and free-roaming
animaln, hfore there was enacted.the Wild Horse Act in 1970, I get downright

 




-3-

disgusted and sickened. Of course, the adoption program is not working fast
enough for these greedy indiviudals who want all the Public Land to graze their
cattle and sheep at ridiculously low prices. Greed I can understand only too
well. It is my understanding that the BIM's June 1980 report to Congress on
wild horses and burros disclosed that the population of wild horses was less than
1978. So, although you may enjoy riding your horses at your ranch in California,
your administration is no friend of the wild horse or the burro. Naturally,
Watt wants these animals off the Public Land so he can open it all to mining, oil
and mineral exploration.

I understand a plan to amend the Wild Horse Act to permit adopting individuals to
obtain title to their horses immediately and to adopt more horses is in the works.
I can just see the can of worms that is going to open up; I can see the horse
slaughterhouse owners wringing their hands in glee and counting the dollars they
will be making if such an amendment is passed by Congress. I think you will find
every humane-minded individual in the COIDltI’)’ will be against such an amendment.

It certainly is true that those individuals interested in seeing that all life is
humanely treated and that our environment is protected at all times, has to be
constantly on guard against the treachery which seems to exist 50 blatantly.

There are already far too many cases on record of adopted wild horses ending up
in slaughterhouses. The horror stories with regard to these unfortunate animals
are enough to make any concerned individual sick. Unlike you, Mr. President, I

don't turn my head, nor do I bury it in the sand with the idea that if I d925,..- , (73/
read about it, or lmow about it, it does not exist. Through my/ correspondence g.
with Velma Johnson - Wild Horse Annie — I know only too well that it does exist.

You have got to understand, and your administration has got to understand, that
the sp-called "Sagebrush Rebellion" states, and the cattlemen and sheepherders
are not the only individuals with rights. These wild horses and burros are on
lands which belong to the PUBLIC. It has been proven in.many investigations
that it is the overgraning of the cattle and the destruction of the sheep which
i ruining the land — not the running of the wild horses and burros. The horses
and the burros have the RIGHT to be there - the cattle and sheep do not.

Now of course, you probably won't ever see this letter, nor hear about it, but
I am a concerned American citizen, and I feel that retaining Mr. Watt in your
cabinet can only bring about turmoil and destruction of our Public Lands. I
hope you will heed the advice of people much more intelligent than I, and dis-
miss this man immediately.

Sincerely,

(Mrs . J. C. Yarbrough)
cc: James Watt, Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly, Elliott B. Levitas, G. William Whitehurst

 




' ' . ..........................................
. . . . . . . . ._. ._ 39“.“. .,-,-.~.-.‘_'_ 3,793.53 K“'L‘L’:‘;‘:‘;';';';‘:“. .... ._ _ . _ _ . 4 ' ‘ ' _ . . . ‘ 4' I“
-.-.;.;.;.;..:; ............ . . ........... .r . .
I -

‘.'-.‘-.‘~.:v‘ ‘:-:'< V ‘-’-'-:-2-‘-? ‘Wtzi:-’;l-1:I"<:Z;3.’-'i";i’-"'1“':‘3:5'3:“I" " "'$'3i‘3"""’ "‘31?" :5"'-"'1t-'-"‘55 ‘é-i-E 353551i13'25151:3:1:¥:3:-':1:3'1:"'""’:3:3:1:;:3:1:3:5:3$:3‘;§:5i:5:1:1:
.-.-.-.°.-.'3-3'3-2".~2‘-‘3'-"-‘3'}333'.'33:;5251-‘3‘31355233:355 .izlziz-:«zis:c-zt-ymﬁizﬁoz-ﬁaW-VMWQM.-:eéa.‘°:m$aw»m§ .wJﬁﬁﬁxé-‘aﬁtwﬁtmushx.mz'a..........-.:-:-:~:-:...........a:..... ..

............................................... ..' ‘._
a . ..

.............................. ;_-,-.;...;...;.;.'_.;.;. ‘.' h. -. . ' . ‘ _ . , _ ' . _ . . . a _ I _ _ , ., a... _ “53......” ,.;.:-..:_:.:;:_'_;. .5... ....:':..+. \‘t‘. I. Vin}? . 3'?" ;" {2W . .Wlf
'i‘3"::E:E:E:E=?:E:Ez%§=§:?z.33=:::2:2:21-522:5333.335-52355525:1:iziftiﬁz-‘Aﬂ‘Wiz-zéiyﬁ'ﬁé‘a‘amﬁ::feit.:-:=:->:-:- ’ztcafaez-rwﬁéfrwﬂam‘éfe "4%“ , }

  
  

   

05 GE 1‘55 " $755. N~
A ﬂ/v ' 77 7-4th I

President’s Reply Rewards Boy’s Concern for Seals

By CHARLES HILLINGER, Times Staff Writer

President Reagan was so impressed by a letter from a 9—year-old “I asked the President to tell the hunters to quit clubbing the baby
San Pedro boy protesting the slaughter of fur seals that he wrote the seals to death. I said the world doesn’t need real fur."

youngster a Personal reply. . Mario said he figured if anybody could stop the hunters from killing .,
Mario Urrutia Jr. received the letter from the President Wednes- the seals, it would be the President. .

day. ' “I told Mr. Reagan some other stuff in the letter. but I don't re-

“ t was the first time I ever wrote anybody a letter,” said the boy, member what else I said."
whose father is a San Pedro barber. . Reagan’s letter, on White House stationary. read: _ ‘

“Our teacher told us in class how hunters were clubbing baby seals “Dear Mario: It is always a pleasure to hear from young Americans
to death. I was so upset about those hunters I went home from school who care so deeply about the many problems facing America today.
that night and wrote the letter to the President,” Mario recalled. “I was very moved by your sincere expression of love for animals 1‘ __

and concern for the cruel ways in which some people mistreat them. . i
~ ,. “Your letter shows a sensitive understanding of the important role ;
animals, both domestic and wild, play in our lives. ' .

“I want you to know that I share this concern and commend your ‘ ~
courage in speaking out on behalf of. those who cannot defend them-
selves. . -

“I hope that you will always be counted on to stand up for those
weaker than you are. This is a virtue of which you may be very '
proud.” It was signed by the President. ’ . '~

,Mario’s third grade teacher at Holy Trinity School in San Pedro,
Phyllis Kambaria'n, had told her class about the seals. ‘
. Mario thinks he wrote the letter before the President was shot last
March. » . ‘ .
_ .. “I remember how he came home from school really upset about
_ . -...:=:. what his teacher told him that day," said-the boy’s mother, Pat. He
“" , , ;- . sat down and wrote the letter.
' “Mario was sure the President would write him back. I never
thought he would. Mario kept checking the. mailbox for an answer for
a couple of weeks, then kind of forgot about it."

The boy’s father beamed with pride in his barber shop Wednesday
and told his customers about his young son’s correspondence with the
White House.

“Little Mario doesn’t fool around," Urrutia said. “He goes right to
the top. Seriously, I’m amazed that the President, with all the world
. . . = FITZGERALD WPﬂTNEY ‘/ L03 A“331% Tim“ problems, the economy and everything else he has to worry about,
'-. Mario Urrutia Jr.:‘ He took his protest right to the top. . would take time out to write a9-year-old boy.”

‘

9- Year-01d Wrote to Reagan, Eat letter Back

e - v.“ ' '.- u'm‘agqqq
§§?35452:3:2::=~'~2

gig?

N

 

"fl-1' '0'
4.; 33:94

are-es

IADODII

"'-:-:»-;«;r. 3"-
LEE. " ﬁgﬁssizﬁ'kﬁéﬁifamex-ﬁ;:

0'

 

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

July 26, 1981

Honorable Sam Nunn
Honorable Mack Mattingly
Senators from Georgia
Senate Office Building
Wash., D. C. 20510

Dear Senator Nunn and Mattingly:

Several things are on my mind — as follows:

.4 '
I urge both of you to vote for S. 736 which £322 already been approved
by the Committees. As you lmow, this amendment will assist the Justice
Dept. in bringing wildlife criminals into court for prosecution.

Please also vote for the $1 million increase in funds for enforcement of
wildlife laws by the U.S. Fish 6 Wildlife Service as already approved by
the House Subcommittee on Interior Appropriations.

Please co-sponsor Senator Durenberger's S. Res. 65 against the cruel
Draize eye irritancy test. This test is beyong all decency since it is
known rabbits cannot cry, thereby relieving the agony these tests cause.

There is so much that is cruel and wrong to animals going on in the
world, sometimes it is difficult to believe that one is living in the
Twentieth Century. Surely one day man is going to have to pay for what
he is doing to the other creatures of this planet strictly for his own
benefit and pleasure. I just hope I am not aromd when that happens.

You both know of my consistent interest in anything pertaining to animals,
but I just wish I had more time to write a‘tmt these matters. I belong to
many organizations dedicated to helping animals, and I rely on their invest-
igations to keep me informed so I can in turn write to you about my concern.

Wou will continue to hear from me you can be sure of that.

Sincerely,

(Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough)

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

July 26, 1981

HOnorable Elliott B. Levitas
Congressman from Georgia

House of Representatives
wash., D. C. 20515

Dear Elliott:

It seems to me I have written and written about these matters
before, and many times I feel that I'm.butting my head against
a stone wall.

I am.urging your support for HR 638 to fight the smuggling and
poaching which continues to this day despite the Lacey Act. I
resent thieves and smugglers getting rich over the suffering
and deaths of wild birds and mammals throughout the world.

I understand the amendment to the Lacey.Act will help the Jus-
tice Dept. in bringing wildlife criminals into court.

Further, I urge you to vote for a $1 million increase in fUnds
for enforcement of wildlife laws by the US Fish 6 Wildlife Service
as approved by the House subcommittee on Interior Appropriations.

And last - but certainly not the least ~ please co—sponsor H. Con.
Res. 27, sposored by Andrew Jacobs which focus on the Draize
rabbit eye irritancy test. This should have been abolished long
ago. Such needless cruelty and suffering imposed on a small
animal.

There is one last request - and I have written on this many
times, and I hope you.will also co-sponsor Clarence Long's
bill, HR 374 to abolish the steel jaw leghold trap. The suffer—
ing this vicious ingrument causes to animals unfortunate enough
to be caught is indescribable. No, I gUess if one ever caught
a hand in a slammed car door, one would understand only too well.
Far too many'countries around the world have already abolished
this antiquated trap with no ill effects on their wildlife or
human populations. we are supposedly a.modern, progressive counéy.
Let's show we care about our animals too.
5 _

Sincerely,

' OMrs. J. C. Yarbrough)
cc: Honorable G. William.Whitehurst

 




*lManD

“WWW
res, 4|

In Fire Set to Help Wild“

$41

In a mind-boggling example of bureaucratic

bungling,
set a fire

a few birds! ‘

The foresters had in-
tended to burn off just a
few acres for the birds,
which live only in burned-
over areas. But their fire
roared out of control ‘—
and took a stupefying toll:

a One young man died in
the fire. ‘

a Huge numbers of wildlife
were destroyed.

a A total of 41 homes were
leveled.

a $2.5 million in damage
was done. ” .

And what was the US. For-
est Service’s reaction?

“We just goofed,” admitted
Forest Service official Wayne
Mann.

But it was far, far more
than a goof, says an outraged
Mitch Irwin, State Senator for
the Michigan district where
the horrible blaze occurred.

“This was a bureaucratic
bungle at its worst!” thun-
dered Irwin. ,

“The winds were too high
that day to burn garbage in a

backyardﬂTMy‘et the Forest

federal forestry bigwigs deliberately
that wreaked death and destruction _' ‘
over 25,700 acres -— all to ‘

provide nesting sites for

 

 

 

Service decided to go ahead
and burn the forest anyway.

“It could have been the big-
gest disaster in Michigan if
the fire hadn’t been brought
under control.”

Mann, supervisor of Huron-
Manistee National Forests in
Michigan where the fire took

place, remembers the event,

as a “nightmare.”

He said the birds his men
were trying to protect are an
endangered species called the
Kirtland’s Warbler, a small
songbird. '

“Last year there were only
225 pairs known in the world,
and most were nesting among
jack pines in Huron National
Forest,” he said.

“They nest only among
jack pines that are 5 to 15
years old because the low
branches provide cover.

“And when the trees grow
taller, the birds stop using
them because the cover dis-
appears.

“But jack pines don’t re-
generate easily. It takes a
temperature of 250 to 300

 

Mat, 72 2432/ ,,
omes Burned

4,. . < ,.r_,: ‘15". .-'\‘
. . “ '_ . H,“
"9;, ' .
.' .. 1
. ~ M! _
“ ~4
« w.
r
I

‘ ,;'.,_M-:

: ‘~ :1“. ﬁ' "reﬁt-“2." u"

RAGING FIRE in the forest was started to aid rare bird like the

degrees Fahrenheit to open
their cones and release their
seedsf’

So the decision was made .to
burn off a 200-acre area in
May 1980, while the warblers
were on their way back from
a vacation in the Bahamas,
Mann explained. Fire lines
were plowed around the area
and other efforts were made
to contain the blaze -- but
high winds sent it roaring
through the forest.

Before it was brought under
control three days later, Jim
Swiderski, a 29-year-old wild-
life biologist, had been killed

and 41 houses were de-
stroyed.

“To date, 267 claims have
been filed against the Forest
Service for the homes, auto-
mobiles, property and timber
destroyed,” said Mann.

“We estimate the total
damage will be $2.5 million.”

Added Mann: “We made
the mistake and we take full
responsibility for it. We’re
trying to make sure it never
happens again.”

— JAMES McCANDLISH

 

 

t

 

one below.




By DENNIS NEELD

Helpless show dogs are be-
ing pumped full of dangerous
drugs and deadly poison -- so
their greedy owners and han-
dlers can garner blue ribbons
or command huge stud fees
for the animals.

“Real crimes are being com-
mitted against animals through
the use of .cocaine, uppers,
downers, arsenic and butazoli-
din,” furious American Kennel
Club judge Deborah Lawson re-
ported.

Unscrupulous owners and handlers
resort to these chemicals so their

animals will look and perform better
at shows, she explained.

And, shockingly, the practice is

widespread, the nationally famous

dog expert added.

“Often it’s because the winning dog
is an extension of the owner’s ego,"
Mrs. Lawson continued. “When the
dog wins, the owner wins. He basks in

, [fit/46 9/1

571% mg

the admiration and envy of other
show buffs.”

But there’s also the incentive of big
bucks, added Dr. Michael Fox, direc-
tor of the Institute for, the Study of
Animal Problems, in Washington,
DC.

“If a dog is a champion,” he ex-
plained, “he commands high stud
fees.”

Cocaine and uppers are used to
keep a dog alert during a show, the
experts said, while downers calm
nervous or vicious animals.

Butazolidin is an anti-inflam—
matory substance used to deaden

 

mu.» manna-inst, ”We" immm~

 

 

 

pain in a lame animal, and arsenic

ML 7.. 2 9/9,!

makes a dog’s‘ coat long and lux-
urious.

Dr. Fox pointed out that while these
dangerous and deadly chemicals may
mask the faults of a “champion,” any
shortcomings could be passed on to
the pups.

“I’ve never drugged a dog in my
life, but it is fairly common,” New
England poodle breeder Rebecca
Mason told The ENQUIRER.

But a veteran Tennessee handler,
who insisted on remaining anony-
mous, admitted, being pressured to
use arsenic by an owner desperate for
a championship.

“Owners will do anything to win,”

 

ant/cl of Dragged Slm w Dog:

the handler observed. “In the dog
game, anything goes.”

Mrs. Mason said the use of arsenic
is “very cruel. When the dogs quit re-
ceiving it, their hair falls out. It
makes them quite bald.”

What’s more, the dosage has to be ,

carefully regulated, the Tennessee

handler pointed out. “You can kill a
dog with it if you’re not very, very
careful,” she said.

“I’ve been showing dogs for a long,
long time,” 73-year-old Mrs. Mason
sighed, “but I hate the dog shows of
today. The emphasis is 100 percent on
winning — no matter how. It used to
be fun, but now it’s cutthroat.”

“W‘ ‘» 'riitvzvhi

“A

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

July 28, 1981

Governor of Florida
State Capitol
Tallahassee, Florida

Dear Governor:

It is completely appalling and sickening to read in the August issue
of NEW FLORIDA magazine that cockfights are legal in your progressive
state.

I'm well aware of the influx of Cubans and Haitains in Florida, and I
wonder if the state is overlooking this obscene cruelty to birds be-
cause of this? There is simply no excuse for this use of any living
creature - teaching them to fight for the amusement of greedy, uncar-
ing and I presume mostly uneducated individuals. I refuse to call them
human.

During the past few decades the people of America have been awakening
to the fact that animals have rights the same as humans. They have a
right to be treated in a humane manner, and not ill-used and abused

to make money for greedy individuals. To read in this story that small
children attend these cockfights is particularly disgusting. If people
won't - of their own will — cease this abuse of animals, then it is up
to the state to see that they do. If the law officials won't enforce
these laws, they should be fired. There are enough decent people who
love all life, who would be glad to see that these laws are enforced.

Surely a state as enlightened as Florida wants everyone to believe it is
will do something to stop this cruelty. It can be stopped. It has been
'stopped in most other states, and it will finally cease when we have law
officials with backbone and guts enough to enforce the laws.

This sad story in New Florida ends: "rake the rings clean of feathers
and blotches of blood; and carry away the drums heaped with the mangled
carcasses of the cocks.” This is humanity? This is a progressive state?
That this brutality is allowed to exist anywhere is beyond most civil-
ized, educated people. I trust Florida will take the necessary steps

to see that cockfighting becomes illegal in your state.

Sincerely,

GWrs. J. C. Yarbrough)

 




©©A§Ttt© ©©AST .

NEW FLORIDA - August, 1981

 

 

Kids’ Treat:
Cockfights

ockfighting is le-

gal in Florida, but

the gambling that

accompanies it is
not. 50, during the spring
when sheriff’s deputies of
Citrus County, after a
lengthy undercover probe,
raided the largest cock-
fighting establishment in
southeast Florida, they
were hot after gambling ev-
idence. They arrested 120
people and seized $70,000
in gambled and about-to-be
gambled cash.

The captured gamblers
consi5ted of wives and hus-
bands, and male and fe-
male singles. Also sitting in
the small, bare-benched,
horseshoe-shaped galleries
surrounding the rings were
20 children ranging in age
from infant to teen.

Some of the youngsters
had been observed (by
plainclothesmen who had
infiltrated the proceedings)
betting on their favorite
cocks, but they were not
charged with gambling. Six
of them, however, were
charged with unlawful as-
sembly and were turned
over to juvenile authorities.
The mothers, whose chil-
dren were too young to go
home and stay alone, were
released so they could tend
their young.

Captain L.W. “Buddy”
Mortimer, who led the raid,
said intelligence sources
claimed there were at least
two dozen other cockfight-
ing establishments operat-
ing in the state, doing a
multimillion dollar gam-

 

bling business. “For some
of these people,” he says,
“it’s a regular family sport-
ing event,” much the way
other families go to a Little
League baseball game and
root for a kid at bat instead
of a cock in the ring.
After the police had
taken the arrested people to
the county courthouse and
sent the mothers and their
children home, the men
came to clean up the mess
left by the practice of the
family sport. There was a
lot to do: ventilate the place
of its thick tobacco smoke;
clear away the bottles, beer
cans, cigars, cigarette butts
and crumpled pieces of pa-
per lying under the stands;
rake the rings clean of
feathers and blotches of
blood; and carry away the
drums heaped with the
mangled carcasses of the

'7

cocks. _i

 




STATE OF FLoRnDA

@fﬁw nf the (ﬁnimrnnr

THE CAPITOL
TALLAHASSEE32304

BOB GRAHAM
GOVERNOR

August 11, 1981

Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, NE
Atlanta, Georgia 30345

Dear Mrs. Yarbrough:

The Governor appreciates your bringing to his attention your
concern regarding "cockfightihg" in the State of Florida.

Please be assured that the Governor does nOt condone cruelty

to any animal and if the people of Florida will voice their
concern regarding this type of animal cruelty, I am sure the
Florida Legislature, makers of the law, will act appropriately.
May I suggest that you contact members of your local delegation
to the Legislature and apprise them of your feelings on this
matter.

Thank you for being concerned and perhaps in the near future
there will exist a law to stop such activities by humans against
animals.

With kind regards,

g

Citizens Assistance Program

 




 

"22 Part I/Wednesday, July 22, 1931 at * .

 

U.S.-British Proposal to Ban   “

Killing of Whales Is Defeated ' ,

BRIGHTON, England _‘ (UPI)—The
United States and Britain failed Tuesday
for the third straight year to win a
worldwide ban on commercial killing of
whales. ,

The 30-nation International Whaling
Commission’s annual conference voted
down the proposal, 16 for, 8 against, with
3 abstentions. To pass, the motion needed
a three-fourths majority.

Japan, the only nation that still carries
on large-scale whaling operations, led
the opposition.

Japan had warned the commission that
if the measure was adopted, the Japanese
would be “neither legally nor morally
bound by it.”

/ Other whaling nations cast their bal-
lots with the Japanese in defeating the
measure. They were Chile, Iceland,
South Korea, Norway, Peru, Spain and
the Soviet Union.

’ Those nations sell Japan most of their
whale meat. Japan is the only country

  

where whale meat is consumed in quan~
tity—about 25,000 tons annually.
Supporting the moratorium on killing
whales were Argentina, Australia, Den-
mark, France, India, Jamaica, Mexico,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Oman, St.
Lucia, Seychelles, Sweden, Switzerland,

the United States and Britain. Denmark

was a surprise as it has previously voted
against restrictions on whaling.

Brazil, China and South Africa ab-
stained while Canada, Dominica and Ur—
uguay were absent when the vote was
taken. . ,

The defeat was a blow for conserva-
tionists who lobbied in Brighton as dele-
gates met. Similar proposals were voted
down in 1979 and 1980.

Craig von Note, spokesman for 35 ,

American conservation groups, . said,
“The Japanese have twisted arms again.

' They have managed to keep a solid front

of whaling countries only for their own
selfish purposes.” .

A n s ﬁzz/$51 68

 

 

/////5S

   

 

\

7/ 249—— 9/

£11er and Environment

 

U.S. Abandons Florida Solar Project

. After spending nearly $2.5 mil-
lion, General Electric and the feder-

al- Energy D artment have
the plug on ' '

   

shire said the chemical reactions
produce ' aluminum acids which.
combined with acid rain itself. kills
fish and vegetation in the Water.
,Acid rain is caused by sulfur and ni -
tric oxide pollution in the air, which
is believed to be produced by coal-
fired industrial and utility plants in
the Midwest and carried eastward
by the prevailing winds.

Wildlife agents arrested 16 and
sought 6 other Washington res~
idents—IZ of them Indians—charg -

 

 

The acid content in many lakes
and streams in the Northeast and
Canada may be increasing because

‘ of chemical reactions in nearby soil
~.; caused by acid rain, scientists said.

“ Researchers for the Hubbard Brook
Experimental Forest. in New Hamp-

ing them with taking part in the

' killing or trading of up to 100 bald

eagles and other endangered birds.
Some tribal leaders characterized
the raid as an attack on Indianreli-
gious beliefs. The local U.S. attor-
ney’s office denied their charges.

 




40.5

 

NQ/iz/Es WES 7’ 2%8/

Arrogance Vs. the Whales ;

Conservationists who favor a worldwide mora-
torium on commercial whaling ran afoul of the Ja-
panese again last week. For the third consecutive
year, Japan was able to frustrate the will of the
majority at the annual session of the International
Whaling Commission in Brighton, England.

Although the vote in favor of the moratorium
was 16 to 8, with six nations not voting, the margin
was far short of the necessary 75%.

Japan, the only country that still carries on

large-scale whaling operations, now appears to
have absolute domination over the commission be-
cause of the 75% rule. Voting with Japan to defeat

the moratorium were Chile, Iceland, South Korea, .

Norway, Peru, Spain and the Soviet Union. All sell
most of their own catches to Japan, the last major
consumer of whale meat, and the smaller nations
depend on Japan to subsidize their whaling fleets.

Japan persists in whaling despite mounting
world protest—and mounting scientific evidence
that many large species are nearing extinction—on
the dubious grounds that whale meat is a major
source of protein in the Japanese diet. But cheaper
and. more abundant protein sources are easily
available, as are substitutes for oil and other whale
products.

Japan’s triumph over the majority at Brighton
was complete. It was also able to defeat proposals
for a ban on catches in the North Atlantic, for a
cessation of catches of Minke whales after the
1983-84 season, and for a progressive moratorium
on all whaling in all oceans over the next five
years. ‘

There is serious doubt that ' the international
“commission will ever be able to carry out fully its

responsibility to save a number of species of great
whales from near-extinction. On the eve of the
Brighton meeting, and despite a last-minute plea
fora moratorium from President Reagan, Japan
issued its usual threat to withdraw from the world
commission and go it alone if it did not prevail on .

3 every major issue.

The threat doesn’t amount to much. If Japan did
withdraw and violate existing international con-
trols; US. law would require a total embargo on
Japanese fishery imports and severe restrictions
on Japanese fishing operations in US. territorial
waters, and that would be too large a price to pay.

But Canada, which no longer conducts commer-
cial whaling, did withdraw from the commission at
Brighton, and its delegates were there only as ob-
servers. N 0 reason was givengbut a Canadian vote
last year favoring. Japan brought an angry reaction
from Canadian conservation organizations, and
there is speculation that Canada may be pulling out

of the commission only temporarily to reexamine

its position.

The defection of other nations could severely
weaken both the commission and the controls and
quotas that it was able to impose in the years when
Japan was willing to negotiate, rather than dictate,
the rules governing commercial whaling.

We think the collapse of the commission would
be the worst possible outcome for conservationists.
It is the only serious forum for the control of whal-
ing, and small victories in the future are better
than none. The commission is also the only inter-
national forum in which conservationist nations
can continue to concentrate world attention, and
opprobrium, on Japan’s arrogant policy.

 

 

 




@119 New

Founded in 1851

ADOLPH S. OCHS. Publisher 1896-1935
ARTHUR HAYS SULZBERGER, Publisher 1935-1961
ORVIL E. DRYFOOS, Publisher 1961-1963

7,23:— 9/

THE NEW YORK TIMES,

ARTHUR OCHS SULZBERGER. Publisher
o
A. M. ROSENTHAL. Executive Editor
SEYMOUR TOPPING. Managing Editor
ARTHUR GELB. Deputy Managing Editor
JAMES L. GREENFIELD. Assistant Managing Editor
LOUIS SILVERSTEIN. Assistant Managing Editor

. ~ .
orlc mime 5 MAX FRANKEL. Editorial Page Editor

JACK ROSENTHAL, Deputy Editorial Page Editor
CHARLOTTE CURTIS, Associate Editor
0

TOM WICKER, Assodate Editor
0
JOHN D. POMFRET, Exec. V.P., General Manager
JOHN MORTIMER, Sr. V.P., Asst to General Manager
J. A. RlGGS. J R.. Sr. V.P., Operations
DONALD A. NIZEN. V.P., Consumer Marketing
JOHN M. O'BRIEN. V.P., Controller
LANCE R. PRIMIS. V.P., Advertising

 

Daring the Offshore Depths

Interior Secretary Watt’s five-year plan for off-
shore oil and gas development points in the right di-
rection — toward more exploration and new energy
discoveries. But development on such a breathtaking
scale requires the kind of judicious management that
Mr. Watt has yet to demonstrate. A vociferous cham-
pion of development who sneers disparagingly at
most environmental groups can hardly be relied
upon to insure that precious coastlines and fish are
not recklessly harmed.

Mr. Watt would quickly Open virtually the entire
outer continental shelf, annually making available
for leasing perhaps 200 million acres instead of the 15
million envisioned by the Carter Administration. Ac-
tual test drilling would not, of course, expand propor-
tionately; even when much smaller regions were
available, the oil companies could afford to lease
only half the area.

But even those who believe, as we do, that offa
shore oil should be exploited more repidly need to be
concerned about Mr. Watt’s escalation. He would
shift the focus of attention from small tracts to enor-

I

mous areas of ocean. He would require environmen-
tal studies for the broad area, but in less detail than
before. And only after a company had actually
leased a tract would he study the drilling site to esti-
mate the likely gains and risks -- too late in many
cases for withdrawal of the lease.

Some change is clearly desirable. The cumber-
some regulatory process has resulted in needless
delay and duplication of environmental studies. But
the studies and strict regulation of drilling are essen-
tial. The oil companies are beginning to venture into
more forbidding waters, particularly off Alaska,
with an already stretched pool of experienced per-
sonnel. The likelihood of a blowout is increasing.

Indeed, Mr. Watt’s program may well end up
reducing environmental protection without really
speeding up oil production. It is now subject to com-
ment by coastal states, environmental groups and
other interested parties. The Secretary should be
pressed to explain how he will maintain a firm regu-
latory hand. If his answers are unsatisfactory, Con-
gress may want to intervene.

 




 

 

',\

ilooA gates Glimca

Calls for Capturing 9 Birds as Breeding Stock

 

 
 

U S. Asks California to 0K CondorAid Plan

By ROBERT LOCKE, AP Science Writer

The federal government asked California Tuesday to
approve the most. elaborate and controversial plan ever
proposed to save an endangered species. the majestic

- California condor.

Strong objectionswere expected to be made against

. . the US. Fish and Wildlife Service-National Audubon
Society three-year plan to capture nine condors~ as
'_ breeding stock and trap and tag 12 others with radio

~ transmitters.

The decision facing the state’s Fish and Game Com-

mission is crucial. All sides in the issue agree that a mis-

:. take now could doom the giant bird to extinction. Fewer

7. than 30 California condors still exist, scattered over a

.
’4

huge, rugged area 70 miles northwest of Los Angeles.
“The California condor is rapidly approaching extinc-

‘ 'tion," said Ronald E. Lambertson, the Fish and Wildlife

Service’s program manager for endangered species. Af-.

ter 40 years of study, “nothing learned to date has been
able to reverse the decline. ”
For that reason, he said, the ambitious and intensive

' recovery effort must be approved.

The commission 's Condor Advisory Committee cau

_’ ‘tiously approved elements of the plan but urged that the

initial permit be limited to a single year. And committee
member Dan Goodman of Scripps Institution of Ocea-
nography said the scientific panel emphatically opposed
any use of radio transmitters to tag the birds.

“The condor represents more of a sacred trust than a
resource,” he told the commission. “Our objective with
the condor is to save them, not to study them.”

He said the advisory group concluded that informa-
tion gained from the pair of two-ounce transmitters that
would be mounted on each wing of tagged birds would
be negligible or, if beneficial, “would require more lead
time than the condor has right now” to implement.

“We have to say (information must be useful) within

the decade or we can't save them at all."

Mate for Condor at LA. Zoo
Goodman said a one-year permit would allow much

more effective review by the state before additional "

work is-done.

The advisory committee did, however, support the
concept of captive breeding It proposed trapping one

adult female as a mate for .Topa- -topa, a male condor at

the Los Angeles Zoo. plus capturing one pair of imma—
ture condors. -

The Sierra Club, meanwhile, supported limited use of
the solar-powered radio transmitters but emphatically
opposed captive breeding.

Mark Palmer. the powerful environmental group’s
regional vice president. said before testifying, “We
would not necessarily oppose (capturing) a mate for
Topa- -.topa We would oppose any captive breeding be-
yond that at this time. "

Palmer said the Sierra Club supports radio tagging

because knowledge of the condors' population. habitat '

and behavior is or ucial and “we just don' t have enough
information right now.”

If the federal program is approved as presented. 'he
said. the Sierra Club would consider legal action to
block it.

The condor recovery project. which is envisioned as a

decades- long effort, had been approved by the commis-
sion last year. That permission was quickly withdrawn
‘ 'when one of only two condor chicks known to exist died

while being weighed and measured by project person-
nel. ‘

 

  

Wednesday, July” 29 I98]

  
    

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

 
    

 
 
 

  

 

 




44 - AMERICAN WAY, AUGUST 1981

Holding 001:

For Canine

 

The newest additions
to court dockets
come from leather—collar
criminals.

 

I ntil a run-in with a mail carrier, “Ro-
man” seemed a well-adjusted family
member. “Sasha” wound up on probation
after standing trial for night howling.
“Brucie” was arrested for hunting sheep
out of season.

Roman, Sasha, and Brucie are canine
criminals, a breed apart from your everyday
mugger or thief. Yet dogs are increasingly
likely to go through the same legal system as
their human owners, complete with arrests
and witnesses, courtrooms and lawyers,
convictions and sentences.

“We’d like people to settle their dog
problems out of court in a neighborly way,”
says Portland, Oregon, District Court Judge
Joseph Ceniceros. “But often they’re like
the Hatﬁelds and the McCoys, so we have to
step in.’ ’ So often, in fact, are canine issues
appearing that Portland justices devote two
days each month to doggie delinquents.
Honolulu ofﬁcials covertly compile tape-
recorded evidence of illegal barking. The
Santa Barbara, California, city attomey’s
ofﬁce offers professional mediation to help
resolve dog-related disputes, and New York
City has at least one lawyer who specializes
in canine law.

By SUSAN K. FLETCHER

If the prospect of eminent court justices
weightily deliberating Fido’s fate seems
ludicrous, consider the magnitude of the
problem. Humane Society statistics put the
number of dogs and cats in the United States
at 70 to 110 million; they have a birth rate of
2,000 to 3,500 animals per hour. In some
urban areas the dog density reaches Malthu-
sian proportions; Baltimore once claimed
450 strays per square mile. Dogs bite more
than a million people each year nationwide.
In New York City dogs deposit more than
125 tons of embarrassment on private
lawns, public parks, and sidewalks daily.

The result has been an unmistakable trend
to put the legal bite on disobedient dogs and
their owners— and in the process to create
more clamor than a bulldog in a china shop.

Dog ‘ ‘doo’ ’ debates threaten the peace of
even the most complacent neighborhoods,
and animal-control ofﬁcers are frequently
the objects of guerrillalike attacks. Threats
were made on the life of an Oklahoma dog
catcher. In Seattle a lone doggie defender
struck, throwing an animal-control officer
to the ground and urging a leashless dog and
its owner to flee (they did).

“It’s like the confrontation we used to
have in the Old West between the ranchers
and the farmers , ” says Oregon’ 5 Ceniceros ,
who has presided over numerous dog-court
sessions in Multnomah County. “Even
when people move out to the rural areas,
they have to leash or pen their dogs. They
resent it a lot. Usually the neighbors only
complain after a dog has really crossed the
line — and then everybody’s up in arms
against the owner.”

Confrontations occur in room 120 of
Multnomah County Courthouse every

II?”

 




..(:t..\.,‘

5‘ ...

Iiil‘ .

‘Ill‘r\i.

 

. ﬂ.
(I
Haﬁz/Maw

o7

 

 

 

 

i A ‘3‘." SS‘II-‘Iilrlili‘lll‘d‘ill 11“!“

.3 33%. a. Z .5 ~ 1:14
_

 




 

\ ,(
\‘m I x

46 - AMERICAN WAY, AUGUST 1981

second Tuesday and third Thursday of the
month. The day begins with ceremonious
dignity as all rise for the judge, and the first
witnesses are sworn in. After that anything
can happen. Some days 50 to 100 dog own-
ers appear for arraignments. On other occa-
sions a single trial lasts all day, complete
with high-powered lawyers and as many as
a dozen witnesses.

The atmosphere is contentious, to say the
least. According to Mike Oswald, chief
ﬁeld supervisor for the county’s animal—
control department, the courtroom am—
biance has all the decorum of a profes-
sional wrestling match. “There’s a rowdy
crowd that’s really got its hackles up,” he
says. “Only here the attacks are person-
al; it’s character assassination. One guy
accuses his neighbor of not being married
to the woman he’s living with, that sort
of thing.”

Judges often put up with disorderly con—
duct because it’s a safe way for people to
vent their frustrations. But they won’t put
up with dogs in the courtroom—not since
one judge allowed an elderly woman to

bring her pet so he could see for himself
whether it was vicious. After only a few
minutes in court, the dog was ordered de-
stroyed or removed from the county. It had
tried to bite the judge.

Even with the dogs absent, animal court
poses particularly difficult dilemmas for
judges. Ceniceros explains:

“When you have half the neighborhood

 

‘We've been focusing on
the wrong end of
the dog.’

 

in court, and you know that they’re taking
the day off work and probably losing
money, there is pressure. You feel the ten-
sion in these people. And you feel, ‘If I
don’t do something, they’re going to take
the law into their own hands.’

‘ ‘You don’t want to issue a decision that’s
going to leave a lasting scar. So, except in
vicious-dog cases, I tell them, ‘This is your

 

  

neighborhood. I want you to be able Eu go
there and relax. I want your neighbm to
relax. I’m going to put your dog on proba-
tion now, and if it happens again. were 2...:
going to have another trial. A neighbor v. .1:
come tell me what he saw. If I believe him.
I’m going to order your dog impounded.‘
With that approach. I haven’t had many
cases come back,” concludes the judge.

The canine crises seems to require a non-
traditional approach—both in and out of the
courtroom. Some communities have come
up with surprisingly resourceful ways of
coping with the four principal canine
crimes: barking, running loose, “litter-
ing,” and biting.

While nocturnal yapping may not be one
of the more lurid crimes, it can play havoc
with a neighborhood. There’s always the
problem of evidence — proving that this
particular dog was barking in that particular
place at such and such an hour.

Honolulu has a “barking dog” ordinance
with teeth in it. Canines may legally yap for
10 minutes steadily or for a half—hour
intermittently. That’s it. The Humane Soci-
(I?

  

 




ety has seven roving animal—control ofﬁcers
on call to enforce the ordinance. Seconds
after headquarters receives a complaint,
a dispatcher radios one of the officers.
Equipped with tape recorders, citations, and
the authority to use them, the ofﬁcer shows
up at the scene of the crime prepared to nab
the wayward barker and prove the state’s
case in court.

The running-loose category includes eve-
rything from strays and dogs not contained
by their owners to hardened motorcycle
Chasers or garbage—can diggers. Solutions to
the problem of stray animals run the gamut
and are often controversial. According to a
New York Times article, in an Indiana town
police were authorized to shoot strays when
the dog population became unmanageable.
Another article told of the plight of an Okla-
homa city where the mayor ordered the
pound emptied of its residents when the city
was faced with making extensive repairs to
the pound to satisfy health standards.

In most parts of the country there’s a
definite trend toward more leash laws,
stiffer fines, and stricter enforcement.
Increasingly, citizens are finding them-
selves in serious trouble when they ignore a
“doggie at large” rap. Ceniceros recalls:

‘ ‘We had quite a to-do here when a lot of
socially prominent matrons were given
animal—control citations to come to court on
a certain day and they weren’t doing it. So
the judge in charge issued bench warrants
for their arrest.”

Says Cheri Ruiz, the animal—control
ofﬁcer who served the warrants: ‘ ‘Imagine a
bunch of impeccably coiffed matrons in de-
signer clothing, frantically calling everyone
in the neighborhood to scrape up bail. They
came up short, so we hauled them down-

._\

\
‘_.. a V ~—

\

» £1 ‘9

. ~ -‘
a‘ 15.“ 3*

3‘ ' V

g “ §s
“‘ ~_ ‘-§“
‘

.-
vi;

-. _, .~

.. . .-

4 .1

3‘
ﬂ-
3
O

' .d- ‘ ‘.
.

3,; ? .
cw?

‘5‘“! “
‘ ’ V )
ﬁ ‘o‘nv‘iia
\ .1 ’
\h‘l~‘°'

‘C
‘“
Q
.. .. nit?-

-

i

‘ - u
0““

‘ l ‘ H‘
‘ .h ‘.
\-.
t‘ a l
‘i‘ ‘
.. “

'i‘o

n,»

48 - AMERICAN WAY, AUGUST 1981

town and had them booked and locked up. ”
Perhaps the most widely publicized
aspect of leather-collar crime is the litter
problem— a euphemism if ever there was
one. When New York City’s infamous
“pooper scooper” law went into effect in
August, 1978, some metropolitan newspa-
pers made a bigger to-do about dog doo than
about current events in the Middle East.
Apparently the law is working. Observ-
ers contend that New York’s sidewalks and
parks are a lot less treacherous these days.

 

New York City has at
least one lawyer
who specializes in
canine law.

 

Still, enforcing the law isn’t easy; last year
the city raised the $25 fine to $50 and in-
stalled a computer system to track down

‘ frequent offenders.

According to Dr. Alan Beck, director of

the Center for the Interaction of Animals
and Society, other canine—waste laws have
been passed in Los Angeles, Minneapolis,
Phoenix, Denver, Washington, DC, and
numerous small communities. “Scoop laws
are all the vogue,” says Beck.
. While all areas of canine crime may stir
up wild controversy, the vicious-dog prob-
lem is deadly serious. Some experts call it
an unrecognized epidemic —— a far greater
threat to life and health than the much pub—
licized litter situation. As Beck puts it,
“We’ve been focusing on the wrong end of
the dog.”

The end of the dog in question causes
$100 million a year in medical expenses
when it comes in contact with humans,
More than half the victims are children.

For mail carriers, the classic butts of
dog-bite jokes, the situation gets less funny
every year. They can only ﬁght back by re-
fusing to deliver, but the courts have begun
to retaliate more forcibly against owners.
In the past most states operated under the
theory that a dog owner was not to blame for
the first bite inﬂicted; the pet got one free.
Under new stricter laws that first bite could
cost thousands in victim compensation. The
key is the owner’s prior knowledge of the
pet’s vicious tendencies. Posting a “Be-
ware of Dog” sign or even keeping the dog
chained can constitute evidence that the
owner knows the dog is vicious—even if
the animal has never bitten before.

What’s more, many judges go beyond
levying fines or assessing damages when a
dog bites. “I will probably get rid of the
animal right away if it is truly vicious,”
says Ceniceros. “The great fea: is if you
don’t do something, the dog will hurt or kill
a child.”

In the future the law may clamp down
even harder. Some groups favor banning
dogs from cities altogether; others recom-
mend the European custom of training dogs.
to use toilets. But Lesley Agard of the
Hawaiian Humane Society advocates li—
censing owners instead of pets. “There are
no canine crimes — just human crimes.”
she says. “We need to train people lo be
responsible pet owners.” \‘ '

Oregon free-lance Susan Fletcher has
owned numerous disorderly dogs—but
none has landed her in court.

 




Compromise Reached on
Program to Save Condors

By ROBERT A. JONES, Times Staff Writer 7‘

Resumption of efforts to save the
California ‘condor from near extinc-
tion was virtually assured Friday as
federal and state wildlife officials

agreed on crucial features of a new __

rescue plan.
The agreement, which followed

two days of negotiating sessions in '

the office of state Fish and Game
Director Charles Fullerton, clears
the way for a team of federal biolo-
gists to trap a number of the huge
bir ds and breed them in captivity.
The program has been suspended
since last year when a condor chick
died as result of handling by a
member of the team.

j The terms of the agreement still
must be approved by the state Fish
and Game Commission at its meet-
, mg scheduled for next week, but
several officials involved in the ne-
gotiations said the accord made

such approval highly likely.

Only three days ago the rescue
plan—the most elaborate and ex-
pensive endangered species effort
in this country’s history—stood on
the verge of collapse as federal offi-
cials threatened to shelve the
project if the state continued to in-
sist on a number of restrictions.
Fullerton and other state officials
described the conditions as necessa-
ry to ensure safety to the birds, but
the federal naturalists contended
the limitations would leave the pro-
gram ineffectual.

The dispute focused on the num-
ber of birds that biologists would be
allowed to trap in the first year of
the program and how much han-
dling would be permitted for testing

and measurements of each bird.

Under the compromise agree-
Please see CONDORS, Page 22

22 Part I/Saturday, August 1, I981 *

i105 Augelea dimes

CONDORS: ResCue Plan

i Continued from First Page

2} ment, three birds will be trapped in the '-

i first year for captive breeding and two
L.- others will be taken for radio tagging and
tracking. To ensure a proper mix of sexes,

' f." biologists will be alloWed to trap a total of

:1 nine birds. Trapped birds that turn out to
:-be the wrong sex will be released, but
handling for each bird will be limited to
15 minutes.

If studies of the two birds initially
{taken for radio tagging show no ill ef-
affects, the rescue team will have the op-
T‘portunity to apply for permission to take

additional condors for tagging.
‘Cautious Approach’

it
:13 safe one,” said Fullerton after the ne-
igotiations. “It represents a slow, cautious
f’approach so we’ll know we’re doing it the
f‘best way.”

{5 So close are the California condors to
'rextinction that the success of any pro-
gram has become problematical. General

irestimates put the total remaining popular

ltion at 20 to 30, all residing in a portion of ~

iLos Padres National Forest northwest of
:Los Angeles.

f. Huge, ungainly birds on the ground,
:.condors are much more at home in the
._‘.air, soaring for hours on thermal up-
:drafts. A member of the vulture family,
-:_they can roam for more than 100 miles
'rlooking for the dead and dying. Accord-
ing to the most recent counts, their num-
bers are shrinking at the average rate of
2.5 birds a year.

 

“I think 'we’ve got a good program and '

. The rescue plan for the condor has
been developed over the last five years
by the federal government and the Na-
tional Audubon Society. If the first ef-
forts at captive breeding are successful, it
could continue for 30 years and cost $15
to $20 million.

Because of the possibility of human er-
ror and technical failure in such a com-

" plex program, it has been opposed by a

number of conservation groups, among
them the Sierra Club and Friends of the
Earth. These groups, which favor an em-
phasis on habitat restoration, say the
captive breeding plan could cause an
even earlier demise of the condor.

Both the Sierra Club and Friends of
the Earth have indicated they may file
lawsuits to block implementation of the
plan, should it be approved by the com-
mission, but representatives of both
groups said no decision had yet been
made to proceed.

 

 




.3‘AOO

THE ATLANTA CONSTITUTION, Mon.,luly 27, l98l

 

 

Er

 

3‘“

LOS ANGELES (AP) - Something is killing California

. condors, and although conservationists are committed to sav-
. ing the bird from extinction, a battle looms over how to pre-

serve the huge vulture
The California Fish and Game Commission has sched‘

‘ -»uled a hearing for Tuesday on a permit request from the US.

’ Fish and Wildlife Service, which, in conjunction with the Na-
tional Audubon Society, wants to capture the birds for

. monitoring in the wild and for breeding. -

The California condor has been listed as an endangered

species since 1949. The existing birds —— estimated to number »
just 20 to 30 -— have been seen soaring on their 9ofoot wing-

spans over the rugged chaparral and craggy cliffs they call

' home

Most of the birds have been spotted in the 53 ,000~acre

Sespe Condor Sanctuary of the Los Padres National Forest,
about 70 miles northwest of Dos Angeles. Their flights take;

them up the coastal mountain ranges into Southern and Gen.
tral California.

But the California condor, unlike its cousin in South

America, is dying, and nobody knows exactly why.

The controversy ranges between those groups which
want to capture and study the bird and those who say the

”habitat of the bald, dull-black vulture should be expanded to

give the bird a chance to increase its own p0pulation.
If the commission’s threeyear proposal is approved,

about a tablespoon of blood would be taken from each of the

captured birds to test for pesticides and, among other things,
sex, since a condor’s gender cannot be determined externally.
Some birds would be outfitted with ﬁll-gram, or 1.75-

' ounce, solar-powered transmitters on their wings and released
for tracking, which, it is hoped, would lead to clues about the '
' condor’ s lifestyle. - ‘

The proposal also would keep other condors for breeding
at the San Diego Wild Animal Park. The program would be
subject to review by fish and game officials and could run

,until the year 2015, depending on whether a stable condor.
population is established.

One of the conservation groups Opposing the program.

 

Argument I 3 Not Over Saving
The Condor But How To Do It

Friends of the Earth, concurs with the late condor expert

Carl Koford, who said human meddling will hasten the bird’s .

demise.
Opponents of the trapping proposal believe more of the

range should be protected in the. hope that the bird will re-

juvenate itself if free of human encroachment. Although

“critical habitat" areas have been designated in six counties, .

meaning no federal funds can be spent there on projects that
would threaten the condor, much of the property is in private
hands. ‘

Striking somewhat a middle ground is the Sierra Club,

' one of the nation' 3 largest conservation groups. It advocates

more habitat emphasis, but does not oppose limited “hands-
on” research, as long as it is only a one-year program, said
spokesman Mark Palmer.

It also favors capture of just one bird, to breed with ’

Topa Topa, a condor caught in 1967 and now living at the Los
Angeles 200. Also, the Sierra Club says two radio-monitored
birds should be observed for one year, instead of the proposed
monitoring of 12 birds over three years.

“The bird is going to undergo some stress no matter
what we do, " said Dr. Randy Perry, of the U..S Fish and
Wildlife Patuxent Wildlife Research center in Laurel, Md.
However, he added: “The risks certainly are worth taking in
view'of the potential benefits to the species"

The Golden Gate Chapter of the Audubon Society has .

split with its parent organization over the proposed program.

“There’s just too much too fast" said the Golden Gate
group 's executive director, Jerry Emory, “especially in light
of what happened last summer. "

On June 30, 1980, a condor chick collapsed and died I

while being handled by a researcher. And last week, a condor

chick died in its nest in the wild, according to John Borne-

man, the Audubon Society’s western regional representative.
However, researchers at the Ventura Condor Research

Center are encouraged by the results of recent experiments

with the-Andean condors in Peru, Borneman said.
The Andeans, which show no signs of imminent extinc~

ztion, were put through the trapping and testing techniques

Associated Press Pinto

Topa Topa, The Condor At Los Angeles Zoo

[imposed for the California bird, he said.
But Dr. Randy Perry of the Fish and Wildlife Service

' said three of 11 captive-bred Andean condors released to the

wild this year have died.

That, he added, “probably indicates we have a lot less
time than we thought” to save the California condor.

 

 

 

 




S0 6483/.

(3112 New 11 ark @imes

Founded in 1851

ADOLPH s. o'cns. Publisher 18.96-19.35
ARTHUR HAYS sameness. Publisher 1935- 1961
onvn. s. DRYFOOS. Publisher 1961-1963

THE NEW YORK TIMES,

ARTHUR OCHS SULZBERGER. Publisher
‘ O

A. M. ROSENTHAL. Executive Editor
SEYMOUR TOPPING. Managing Editor
ARTHUR GELB. Deputy Managing Editor
JAMES L. GREEN FIELD. Assistant Managing Editor
LOUIS SILVERSTEIN. Assistant Managing Editor
0

MAX FRANKEL. Editorial Page Editor
JACK ROSENTHAL. Deputy Editorial Page EditOr
CHARLOTTE CURTIS. Associate Editor
0

TOM WICKEPL Associate Editor
0

JOHN D. POMFRET. Exec. VCR, General Manager
JOHN MORTIMER. Sr. MR, Asst to General Manager
' J. A. RIGGS. JR. Sr.V.P., Operations
DONALD A. N Ill-3N . V.P., Consumer Marketing
JOHN M. O'BRIEN. V.P.. Controller

 

LANCE R. PRlMlS. V.P., Advertising

 

 

So That WhalesiMay Survive .

Commercial whaling the world over is no longer

proﬁtable and will eventually disappear, save per-'

haps by Eskimos. But the slaughter continues and
may not end quickly enough to save the more vulner-
able species of these remarkable creatures.

A majority in the International Whaling Com-
mission, which represents all whaling countries,
voted last month to end the hunts. But the vote fell
short of the three-fourths required by commission
rules. So it had to settle for a moratorium this year on
the hunting of one especially endangered species, the
sperm whale. A low-key diplomatic effort by the
United States might make it possible to bar whaling
for good next year.

Whaling was important and profitable in the last
, century, when the giant mammals supplied lamp oil,
and in the first half of this century, when they offered
meat and the raw material for margarine. But the
herds were so drastically reduced that substitutes
had to be found, and these have made whaling eco-
nomically insignificant. Only two nations, J apan and

the Soviet Union, have modern whaling industries, '

but even these survive only with Government subsi-
dies. It is a costly way to protect the jobs of a few
thousand seamen.

Most experts believe that the Soviet Union is
simply waiting for its fleet to wear out. Its whaling
ships often seem to have additional intelligence
duties, but they could pursue those in any case.
Though they vote against it, the Russians probably

would quit too, if. all countries agreed. The key, then, .
is Japan. ‘ '. -

Only a few J apanese companies and their politi- .
cally inﬂuential trade unions bitterly resist the end of ‘
hunting. The pmblem is exacerbated by the broad ,
decline of Japan’s fishing industry because of severe Z
limits on its operation in the expanded territorial !
waters of other countries. It is precisely this decline
that might now be exploited diplomatically to end
whaling for good.

American law allows the President to penalize
countries that fail to help in preserving whale herds.
They may be barred from selling fish in the Ameri-
can, market or denied the right to fish within 200
miles of American territory. Presidents have been
reluctant to threaten the Japanese with these penal-
ties; leverage is being preserved for more pressing
issues like auto imports and the level of Japanese de-
fense spending. .

But why could not the United States offer bait in-
stead of the stick -— an increase in J apan’s fishing
quota in American waters? At best, that would di-
rectly compensate workers who have a stake in going
to sea; at the least, it would divide Japan’s fishing in-
dustry and give the Government a reason to switch
sides on the whaling question. '

There is a price to pay, of course: more ﬁshing
by Japan means less by other nations. But surely, as-
suring the survival of these huge, intelligent sea
mammals is worth the modest cost.

 

 

 




 

I WONDER WHAT HE'S DOING FOR HUMANITY????

”ff/ﬂew lit/BUM,— 7,29/8/

 

 

VoiCe of the people I

 

 

 

Questions for the animal welfarists

DOWNERS GROVE—I grew up on a grain
and hog farm and am now working for an
advertising agency. I am compelled to write
after reading the two recent articles regard-
ing animal rights on farms.

The articles naturally raised many of my
farm pride defenses. But after stopping and
taking a clear look at the material pre-
sented, I truly have to wonder if the animal
welfarists have their priorities in the proper
order and if they have an ounce of logic.

Knowing both the rural life and the life of
the city, I have to ask the question, is there
really any difference between the way can
finement livestock farmers are treating
hogs, cattle, and chickens and the way we
allow ourselves to live? Are we, as animals
housed on cement and asphalt, surrounded
by noise and air pollution, subjected to work
stress, sexual. harassment, identity crisis,
and the challenge of merely making ends
meet, in anything more than an inhumane
confinement situation? ‘

Granted, we have a choice of where we
live, where we work, how we live, and how
we raise our children (if we choose to have
any). Yet there are millions on this earth

.who have no choice—whose parents don’t

show them the alternatives of different life—
styles. ‘ l '

True, it simply isn’t possible for everyone
to have the house and 40 acres in a secluded
area that we may all dream of. Then again,
maybe not all of us would be happy in such
a Situation.

My point in this: Shouldn’t- we -be doing
more to find out what Can be done to lessen
those pressures of society which add to
crime and maladjusted and “who gives a
damn” people?

I truly believe we are the victims of
inhumane treatment. Why don’t we attempt
to right our own living conditions before
worrying about those of the livestock which
we depend upon to keep us 'a healthy
people? If animal welfarists enjoy our pre-
sent pressures of society, if they would en-
joy paying twice as much for meat produced
from livestock raised in “happy” conditions,
or if they would simply enjoy being
vegetarians-4they may be my guest. But let
me eat meat and live in a community of
people I can trust and call my friends.

' David McLaughlin

 




\

git/(”ﬂew /R/Bu NE 7‘15?"3N

..~'.

 

Voice of the people

' .UppositiOn to practice 0f 'Tfé'cﬂtorwaarming’

CHICAGO—Congratulations to the Tempo
section for publishing Paul Weingarten’s
two-part article on the controversy over
factory farming. The public should be made

aware of' the deplorable conditions under.

which most chickens, veal calves, and many
hogs'are currently raised. As the article
pointed out, these unfortunate creatures are
confined in cages, crates, and pens so tight
; they cannot stretch their limbs or turn,
'g around. ’

Unfortunately, however, the article treats ’

superficially the defense of these systems
presented by those who have a vested inter-
est in them. The principal defense is that the
systems are necessary for the efficient pro-
duction of cheap food. In reality these sys-
tems are used to convert concentrated
feeds, such as corn and soybeans, into luxu-
ry meats for affluent segments of society.
When fed silage or grazing on nonarable
land, animals convert nonconsumable plant
products into meat for the table. Confine-
ment systems depend on cropland which
should be used to produce protein in the
form of edible plant products for a hungry
world. Protein losses are staggering; in the
_ case of beef, only 4 pounds of edible protein
are produced for every 100 pounds of plant
protein fed. ' -
Furthermore, confined animals are so
: Stressed that they can only be kept alive by
“routine feeding of antibiotics. Over 50 per
cent of the antibiotics released in our envi-.
ronment are in animal feeds, with the inevit-
able development Of resistant strains of dis-
ease organisms that could cause serious
effects on human health. " ' - '
In addition, hormones and other additives
result in potentially carcinogenic residues in,
(meat products. Other major problems stem-
ming from intensive livestock systems are
. environmental pollution and loss of needed
~' , jobs in rural areas.
,. Intensive livestock systems are inherently
Zinefficient. A number of studies in Europe,
’ and more recently in the United States,
show that efficiency is as good or better

*

x'.

 

 

 

 

when animals are not ruthlessly denied their
rights to move about and socialize normally.
Robert A. Brown

'CHICAGO—I found Paul Weingarten’s two
articles on modern farming quite shocking
and depressing. . '

A calf is chained in‘a narrow stall, unable
to turn around, groom itself, get up, lie
down, or stretch its legs. Eight chickens are

crammed into .a wire cage measuring 14

inches tall, 24 inches wide, and 20 inches
deep.

- It is difficult to believe that in a civilized
society such conditions are allowed to exist.
Do animals no longer have any rights?
Paul Wagler

 




 

momy TRANSwssgowﬁ€94.19. 1 ‘TO:
*§1;a5~£DT;;WM§ ﬁﬁEaJ c YARBROUGH
.véglllje1-‘H,T4 3149 KING ARTHUR NE
-1316632 ;,":F}AML ALTANTA GA 30345

a Immmndlbﬁ “own in:

- __, -_..w w“- -r....

i TELEGRAF
, REGESTRY

’ o L ”315?”? Q
Eﬁm&éf?4~38~n4<a , THE END OF COMMERCIAL HHALING
;_ __m"_ ng ”WMMA-M. ﬁ.xs IN SIGHT.

 

 

— .T.’,~,-

. THE 33RD.ANNUAL MEETING OF THE INTERNATIDNAL HHALING‘ 53‘-

'“tOHxssxon.VJUST'COHCLUDED."EXTENDEDTPRUTECTTBHTTo”if?«'-3“
ISPERM WHALES OVER ”DSTIDF‘IHE~HORLD;”Ii ;¢:,,;ugc.jg;
.FROM ICELAND.T0 THE ANTARcrlc; NO SPERwaHA E HILL EVER ﬂ
"AGAINTDIE UNDER THE HHALERS- HARPDONS. ‘IHE CHILDREN op, -
.MOBY.DICK'ARE.SAFE AT.LAST. - 3.2:,g2.;; ;',j,,;;-;;

GREEHPEACE ﬁRovTDEO'EVIbEHcé éHowiNG THAT tHTLE HAS th+,j
*DUCTING'ILLEGAL‘FACTORY‘SHIP HHALING AND THAT'UNE THIRD E

OF THE FIN HHALES,TAKEN BY.SPAIN_WEREiHNDERSIZEDgnngLECg:
AGREED_TO END ALL‘HHALING AND SPAINYS QUOTA HAS.REDQL§D;*-

"A'HosTi0?.HEH”NATIONSfJOiHEDKTHETHCQTTHETH*ATTITHdﬁS"fﬁ_4
j SUMMARI 1513 BY , THE “COMMISSIONE R FROM/INDIA inn j'SAI'DIiIIf‘T
-'HHALES_SH0ULD BE SAVED FOR THE'FUTUREg3NOT)HSLGIANI' ~~~

HEATBALLs. BUT TRULY son THE LONG FUTURE 0F18ANKINDgﬂ“- :

A’DUR CONTINUING"SUPP0RT‘xNorcATEsLTHAT-vaujhbgse;5,f’ “"

"1HE THANK yougi

. -- , .. - ~ - ‘
n. . .
.
. n
x 1 '

-;CHR151c00K’3;

 

 

econ-m wniADA 50 out: It: .-

 

tﬂ.’ —. _ ﬂ H
['Lgx-... __ "h PcRbOk h...

 




 

‘. A .L-AA-‘- A .

Tail ‘ to

“I!
i

I

anima " s

cﬁ/élﬂéﬁ Jill/LWFD L/fl/ﬁ—

 

era 29/ ﬁ

 

Dolphins to converse with computer . . .

By Carol Oppenheim

Chicago Tribune Press SUIJIiZE

LOS ANGEL’ES—Dr. Doolittle in the
guise of actor Rex Harrison was immor-
talized on film singing a ditty about
talking to the animals. The tune ended
on the optimistic note, “ . . . and they
will talk to me.”

4. That fanciful-sounding feat may soon

be a reality. ‘

Dr. John C. Lilly, 3 neuro-physician
and psychoanalyst, believes he is on the
brink of establishing communication
between man and dolphin using sounds
filtered through computers to create a
common artificial language.

The closest man has come to convers-
ing with animals has been a long-range
experimental program to teach sign lan-
guage to chimpanzees. The “conversa-
tions,” however, have been basically an
exchange of simple demands and
orders. -

Lilly is convinced that dolphins have a
descriptive language and the rapid
bursts of clicks, whistles, and other
sounds they use to communicate with
each other underwater may contain up
to 50,000 words or ideas.

9

 

AP

‘ Dr. John C. Lilly and-his wife, Toni,

with a friend: “i think they have oral
histories they'pass on. . .

 

In his earlier research on dolphins, he
found they would poke their heads out of
the water and try to copy human
speech, but neither‘ man nor dolphin
could understand what the other was
saying.

THE MAlN'stumbling block has been
that dolphins “speak” in a frequency
range of 3,000 to 30,000 cycles per second
and emit ultrasonic sounds of up to 150,000
cycles per second, seven times beyond
human hearing. Man’s speech is
between 300 and 3,000 cycles per second.

Also, man has only one voice, while a
dolphin has a complex transmitter that
is like multi-channel stereo and, accord-
ing to Lilly, enables a dolphin tocarry
on four conversations at the same time.

Until recently, no technology existed
to bridge the gap, but ‘now, using an
Apple II computer combined with audio
and visual equipment, Lilly thinks he
has a system that will enable man and
dolphin to exchange precise sounds ad-.
juSted to their hearing range.

Dubbed the Janus system after the
two-faced Roman god of gateways, the
human side is composed of a computer
video display terminal ‘and sonic synthe-

sizers, and the dolphin side consists of a
video screen, hydrophone, and speakers.
Sounds are linked} to symbols.

“Out of 40 sounds, we have been able
to match 10, and the number is increas—
ing every day,” Lilly said. “I’m not
certain they are the right sounds, but
they are producing behavior everybody
can see, such as bringing a ball or
taking a.ball.”

Lilly regards communication with dol-
phins as more than pure scientific re-

,search.

' THE DOLPHIN’S brain is 40 per cent
larger than man’s in the cortical region,
the outer layers of the brain that are
associated with language, reasoning, ab.
straction, problem-solving, morals, and
ethics. ’

Dolphins have existed virtually un-
changed for 15 million years, compared
with man’s 300,000 years, Lilly said, and
they are supremely adapted to their
environment.

“They live on 71 per cent of the
planet: the ocean. We live on only 10 per

is land. Maybe they can teach us a new
view of ourselves and our planet. Maybe
we have to change in order to survive.”

Lilly began his research on dolphins
more than two decades ago. From 1959
to 1966, he set up the Communications
Research Institute with facilities in St.
Thomas and Miami where he and a
research team played, lived, and work-
ed with dolphins.

EVENTUALLY, he viewed dolphins as
more than just animals. They became
“alien intelligences” that were trying

cent of the remaining 29 per cent which-

just as hard as he was to establish
communication, and he decided it was
unethical to keep them confined in re—
search pens. .
During these years, Lilly also de-
veloped an isolation tank that would
allow him to float free in 10 inches of
,water. Freeing his dolphins, he began»
experimenting on his own mind, floating
in the tank and ingesting the drug LSD.
A few years ago, actor Burgess
Meredith, who had developed an interest
in dolphins and had become friends with
Lilly and his wife, Toni, attended a

 

The dolphin

 

 

 
   

 

 

 

 

party with them. Meredith invited theLil-
lys to park their motor home in his
driveway above the beach at Malibu and
spend the night.

The next morning, Meredith told the
Lillys of a dream in which a dolphin
attempted to beach itself under
Meredith’s house. They were discussing
the dream when people outside began
shouting. A dolphin had beached itself
on the beach in the exact spot of
Meredith’s dream.

With the help of Meredith, surfer
Georgia Tanner, San Francisco entrep-

, reneur Victor di Suvero and several
others, the Lillys established the
Human/ Dolphin Foundation in Malibu in
1976. .' ‘

 

BOSTON MPH—Hoover,- a plump harbor seal, has
the unnerving ability to clearly say “Hello there,” or
“Come over here,” whenever he feels like it—often to
the shock of visitors at the New England Aquarium. '

Specialists in animal behavior are baffled.

Zoologists say he may be the first nonhuman mam-
mal to successfully mimic man‘s voice, in a guttural
but clearly distinct bass.

Hoover’s limited but remarkable vocabulary also

includes: “Get out of there,” “How are you?” “Hey,”
and his own name.
. In addition, he occasionally sneaks in a dirty old
man laugh that sounds amazingly similar to Arte
Johnson’s park bench chortle on TV’s old ‘fRowan and
Martin’s Laugh-In.” '

“HE’S BEEN mimicking sporadically for the last

two to three years,” said Patricia Fiorelli,'who coordi-
nates the aquarium’s marine mammal program. “A
lot of people think there’s a little man down there
trying to hoodwink them.”
. Katherine Ralls, a research zoologist at the National
Zoo in Washington, has made some high-quality tape
recordings of Hoover and is analyzing them with
sophisticated sound equipment normally used for bird
son 5.

Hgoover’s mimicry is “much better than parrots’,”
she said. “He sounds like some old wino. We’re going
to compare them with a human voice model, and we‘re
thinking of using the same kind of analysis the FBI
uses for voice prints.”

MISS BALLS said human mimicry was previously

The dolphin, descended from land animals that
returned to the sea 50 million years ago. is recog-
nized by its beaked snout and high intelligence. A
swift swrmmer famous for delighting audiences at
marine shows, this mammal inhabits every ocean
and is found in rivers in South America and Asia.
The typical dolphin feeds on 15 to 20‘ pounds of fish
and squid a day, and members of its suborder range
from the 5-foot harbor porpoise to the 25-foot killer
whale. The best-known dolphins are the bottle-nosed
dolphin found in coastal waters. which can grow to
12 feet and'weigh up to 800 pounds, and the
common dolphin found in warm ocean waters. which
can grow to 7 feet and weigh up to 150 pounds.

 

Chicago Tribune Graphic. Source: National Geographic Society

iunknown in other mammals, and no hard scientific
evidence exists of any as adept as Hoover is.

“We’ve been through all the literature on mammals,
and it’s mostly anecdotal,” she said. Gibbons (species
’of small apes) and elephant seals have been reported
to mimic each other, but never the human voice.

Hoover “talks” only when he wants to, often without
prompting. When people try to coach him, he more
often than not floats on his back near the pool bottom
or suns himself, oblivious to all the appeals for him to
speak.

Many seals vocalize with grunts and barks, but they
apparently don’t feel compelled to fashion human
sounds. Miss Fiorelli said none of the other aquariums
she has contacted has “ever heard anything like it.”

HOOVER WAS AN orphan, along with most of his
harbor and gray seal companions at the aquarium.
Rescued off the Maine coast as a pup, he spent a few
days in a bathtub before the aquarium picked him up.

The vocalizations have only recently become dis-
tinct. Miss Fiorelli first began to notice HooVer’s
progression four years ago, when she penciled in her
notebook: “Is he saying something?”

He was then encouraged to repeat words, and re-
warded with a herring. Now he doesn’t even wait for
the herring. -

“Sometimes he’ll sit for hours, and talk up a storm,”
she said. Other days, especially during the breeding
season, he won’t utter a sound.

“We’d sort of taken his vocalizations for granted.
Now we realize it’s something special.”

THE SEAL POOL is constantly lined with human

The dolphin communicates by
making sounds—barks, clicks, and
whistles. The sounds are produced
when it blows air through its air
passages to a blowhole in the top
of its head. Flaps of muscles in the
air passages and blowhole flex to
produce different sounds. Dolphins
also have a sonar system called
echolocation that helps them locate
objects. Through an organ in its
head called the melon; the dolphin
emits'sounds and listens for echo‘
es when reflected by an object.

    
      

 

. but Hoover the seal is already vocalizing ‘

 

 

I

. . UPI Telephoto
Hoover: A distinct bass vorce.

visitors, and all the attention and am‘ateur coaching
over the last few years probably helps keep Hoover’s
diction sharp. _ .

At age 10, he is a young adult. Seals in capttvrty
often live more than 30 years, with the help of a daily
diet of 10 to 15 pounds of fish.

Harbor seals are generally about half as large as sea
lions. Hoover weighs about 200 pounds.

They also have smaller ears and their flippers are
not as adaptable to land. In the wild, they are numer- _
ous on the Northeast and Northwest U.S. coasts, and in
other temperate climates around the world. ' F

l

 

 

 

 




America’s great
survival fights-e
Watt versus :

the

Wilderness +

by Simon Winchester, Washington

A‘NEW" book has hit the streets '

of Wa'shington this week, and is
said to be required reading for
the Truly Concerned Citizen.
It has some 250 pages, weighs a
good three pounds and is bound
in scarlet plastic.

It’s called The Watt Book, and
it represents the most deter-
mined attempt yet to get rid of
the man 'who, ever since his
appointment to the
seven ”months ago, has been the
most controversial—and most
heartily disliked—member of
President Reagan’s government.

James Gaius Watt holds the
normally somewhat junior and
obscure Cabinet post of Secre-
tary of the Interior—a job that
can perhaps most falrly be
equated with the now. defunct
post of Minister of Public Works
in Britain. Rarely does exc1te-
ment or passion seep into the
dusty ofﬁces of the Interior
Department. Incumbents invari-
ably work out their terms and
retire to an anonymity no less
than they enjoyed in ofﬁce.

But Mr Watt’s seven months
have been marked by extra-
ordinary outbursts of rage, argu-
ment and 'angry debate. The
great new book, a withering at-
tack on him published by a
thoroughly respectable env1ron-
mental organisation, the Wilder-
ness. Society, is the latest move
in a Concerted attempt to un-
seat him.

The ,Sierra Club, .one of
America’s major enwronmen-
talist groups, is trying to ﬁnd
a million people to Sign a
petition demanding he be tossed
from ofﬁce. The National Wild-
life Federation, with ﬁve mil-
lion members and a staunchly
conservative reputation, recently
insisted that the President ﬁre
Watt, and released a 117-page
report detailing why.

Watt, who is a Born-again
Christian and boasts of the
ability to “speak in tongues,”
is deeply loathed by US environ-
mental lobbies for many reasons
-¥all open to varying interpre-
rations.

The basic cry is that Mr Watt,
)ent on what he says is a God-
:iven mission, a “crusade,”
.vants to open up America’s
vilderness areas to oil drillers,
niners, cattle grazers
marrymen. He wants to strike
. balance, as he pUts it, between
he need to protectvthe country~

ide and the demands of the.

vet-hungry American economy.
Such a proposal, to even
he most conservative env1ron-

nentalist, 'is a heresy of;.§}}g

,4! _ _ if”)?

aases '

cabinet '

 

and,

The new book gives-a list, by

-‘way of introduction, of examples

of Mr Watt’s‘ alleged wicked-
nesses.

He has proposed allowing the
use of snowmobiles in Sequoia
National Park,z.motor boats in
Grand Canyon (he got .so bored

by a recent raft trip down the-

Colorado river that'he :radioed
for a helicopter to come and lift
him out) and light air-boats in
the Everglades.

He has plans for the import

of kangaroo skins (they are
used for making high-class jog-
ging» shoes) which has been
banned since 1974. He wants to
see commercial boat trafﬁc in
Alaska’s Glacier Bay, a move that
will threaten the environmental
equivalent of the Holy Grail, the
hump-backed whale.
. Just last week a plan to ease
the strictures of the Clean Air
Act, into which Mr Watt is said
to have had considerable
“input,” was released by the
White House and may be law
by next year. ’ '

Millions of acres of wilder-

- ness land in Montana, Utah and

Wyoming may now be mined
for chromium, tungsten and
coal. Dune buggies are to be
allowed to roar along hitherto
protected areas of National Sea-
shore. The peregrine falcon can
be hunted legally once again. A
treaty with Canada that would
help protect herds of migrating
caribou has been shelved.

The list of m a j o r “ errors ”
Mr Watt has made—in the view

‘ Of the Wilderness Society-runs

to ﬁve pages. ,
By all accounts Mr .Watt is
something of an eccentric. He 15

ia lawyer who discovered Jesus

in‘1964 and promptly joined a
sect of charismatic Christians.

,He says he regards his work in

the Interior Dept as a divine
mission.

“I believe there is a life
hereafter,” he told the Wash-
ington Post last spring, “and
we are to be here to follow the
teaching of Jesus Christ. One
of the charges He has given us
is to occupy the land until He
returns. We don’t know when
He ,is coming, so we have a
stewardship responsibility . . .
to see that people are provided
for until He does come and a
new order is put in place.” .

Those" remarks were widely

....‘..-. . .. . ,4 t ‘l.‘::.‘ It...

interpreted .as suggesting that
Mr Watt believes Jesus is ’on the
Slde of the strip miners and the

’oil drilling crews, and that to

leave wilderness as wilderness
is akin to burying talents in a
hole in the ground.

One story about Mr Watt —
and there are many — is that
he fell to his knees in prayer
lone dayrecently while he was
in the middle of interviewing a
youngman for a senior depart-
ment job. '

The man was . apparently
happy about the praying, but
got something of a shock when
the Secretary began to display
hlS._glft of speaking in tongues.
ThlS' prompted the surprised
candidate to ﬂee from the room
in alarm. He has now chosen to
work elsewhere. ~

Mr Watt, who is extremely
tall and bald and wears spec-
tacles as thick as bottle bases,
neither smokes, drinks nor takes
coffee. He can be charming and
kind, but has a habit of hurling
insults at those whose views he
derides. '

A representative ‘of the
Audubon Society, conserVation-
ists especially concerned with
bird life—hardly a revolutionary

group—was once described by '.
Mr Watt as “the garbage man.” 1'
He regularly calls environmen-

talists “ extremists,” people who

are in the business, as he puts it, 'V
t of “ making America weak.”

.He has his supporters, of
course. Coal and oil companies
adore him. Carl Bagge, head of

the National Coal Association,

has said: “Jim has made my job
a“ pleasure to do again.”

LONDON SUNDAY TIMES

August 16, 1981

i
g
5

Interior

‘ James Watt regards
" . his Work "at the US
. Department
as a divine mission

.. Then again, the loosely organ-
ised group of cattle men, mine
operators and lumber corpora‘
=tions based in the far West who
; make up what is known as “the

. sagebrush rebellion” think that
Mr Watt is doing just fine.

' They welcome each new par-
cel of land he releases for them
to work on, and applaud each
time he tears up a regulation
(such as the one banning the
clubbing of coyote pups in their
dens: Mr Watt, responsive to
the anger of sheep farmers out
west, now permits the practice).

And President Reagan, too, is
known to regard Watt—whom
he had not met before last Nov-
ember—as a conservative of the
ﬁrst water, a man constructed
faithfully in his own image.

Mr Reagan, of course, has
scant liking for the environ-
mental movement. During last
year’s campaign, it may be re«
called that he asserted that trees
in fact emitted more air pollu-
tion than did motor cars—a
remark that prompted a Cali-
fornian student at a Reagan
rally to hang a sign on a sturdy
oak proclaiming, “Quick, cut
me down before I kill again!”

And yet there are indications
that the long campaign mounted
against Mr Watt is beginning to
tell. A Harris survey of the .
western states last month has'
shown a sudden shift in Opinion
away from Watt—indeed, a
major shift towards the Demo-
cratic Party by those who are
said to be “alarmed” at the
ruthless environment and land
policies of the Reagan admini-
stration. '

The pallster went so far as to
conclude that if Mr Watt went
gaily on his way the Republicans
could suffer major losses in the
west in the 1982 mid-term
elections.

Mr Watt, in other words,
seems all of a sudden a political
,liability. Which is why sly’
smiles are said to be creeping
up on the faces of some kan-
garoos and hump-backed whales,
land why Washington’s .Big Red
Book is selling like hot cakes.

 




 




 

1 opics

Life De sw-

Can Congress ‘fine life? Senator
Jesse Helms of ‘ Carolina and
others want to pass - law declaring
that life begins at con - 'on. The idea
is to undermine Suprem ‘ourt abor-
tion decisions by decl ' L that the
Constitution doesn’t mean the
Court said it meant. The bill i if is
probably unconstitutional, but «at
doesn’t deter the Congressional de ‘ -

ers of life.

As Representative Barney Frank of
Massachusetts told the American Bar
Association last week, some legisla-
tors are defining life all the time, vot-
ing not only against abortion funding
but against any Federal aid aimed for
those who do get born — aid to depend-
ent children, child nutrition, child
care, school lunches, shelters for bat-
tered kids. As Mr. Frank says, by their
definition, "Life begins at conception
and ends at birth.”

I
Life, Plus

The threat of being sentenced to
“life, plus 99 years” may have genuine
deterrent power. But when a judge
hands down sentences of 1,940 and
1,620 years all that’s being deterred is
common sense.

The judge in question is George
Kunzman of Jefferson County, Ken-
tucky who imposed those sentences
last week on two robbers. A spokes-
man for the corrections department
says no sentence ever imposed in Ken-
tucky “even comes close.” But nei
he nor the judge e
ceivable p served by sentenc-
ing a man to a term that equals 27
times life, plus 49 years.

Life Forms

No one expects the robbers to serve
until, respectively, the years 3921 and
3601. On the contrary, one will be eligi-
ble for parole in ten years, the other
in just six. 50 what’s the point? Can it
be that the judge is straining to show
how tough he is on crime? All he
achieves, in any case, is to invite ridi-
cule, of himself and of justice in Ken-

tucky.
I

* An Ox Is Gaured

‘ 7 ’e had no sooner read the last page
0 _- perback bestseller titled “The
Craa. - Will Fall”(evil doctor does big
busin’ ‘n fetus transplants) than we
read the “ ry on the front page of The
Times. Th ' they were: Manhar, the
transplanted mbryo, and his “moth-
er,” Flossie. It 9 just like the book
said, only Manhar ‘ e gaur, an endan-
gered species of ox, -- Flossie is a
Holstein cow. _

Flossie, who seems to l a
son’s a son and never mino‘ a

doesn’t look like the rest of the 1‘

is treating him like a young -‘
No lawsuits threaten the suc -’ tory
that is this surrogate motherhood. Sci-
ence has taken a giant step towards
saving species. And the Bronx Zoo de-
serves a very big cigar.

I
Bottom Line

' soup cans, classified ads and
package directions. They are also as-
siduous readers of jeans. Given a
choice between deciphering designer
labels and admiring the scenery while
waiting for a bus, they always go for

NEW YORK TIMES - August 16, 1981

the prose. Nv , ey can go for the
numbers,too. .

Levi Strauss 0 .. ada is turning out a
limited edition . ,‘ jeans that bear five
digits, inscribed , a copper plate. The
buyer mails a = - with those digits to
the company’s f 'storical archives”
and gets in ret l a certificate docu-
menting owne . *p. And the compul-
sive reader - ; ’es a sure-fire way to
identify '

Horse Power

After the City Council passed a bill I

requiring the licensing of horses and
setting new regulations for their hu-
mane treatment, stable owners
screamed that the $25 fee is too high

and the protections too elaborate.

“What are they going to do for the
horse?” one asked. “Put up a tree to
shade him?”

What the bill would do, if Mayor
Koch signs it after a hearing Wednes-
day, is much more sensible: limit the
amount of work a stable can require
from a horse and stiffen standards for
stable size and sanitation, veterinary
care and food. License fees would go to
the Health Department, which will en-
force the regulations, along with the
A.S.P.C.A.

But the stablemen, who get $17 for a
half-hour carriage ride in the park, see
little profit in kindness to animals.
“Right how, we put horses on a scale
and ask a vet, ‘What’s the bare mini-

mum, per body weight, we can feed :

this horse?”’ That’s the best argu-

ment we’ve heard yet for a strong law '

licensing and protecting horses.

 




 

rut; nun run“ llavleq, -'AU.LVL/asl, duupgl 1U, r/oi

 

New York Considering
‘Rights Bill ’for Horses
While Owners BridIe

By LAURIE JOHNSTON

From the private barns of Staten '

island to the commercial stables of
Manhattan, New York City’s 2,000
orsohorseswouldberequiredto
wear license tags costing $25 a year,
under a recently passed bill headed
for mayoral heanngs

And the 500 or more civilian job-
holding horses would have to ob-
serve speed limits, wear night lights
or reﬂectors, take enforced leaves
when they are sick and punch time-
clocks -— with no overtime allowed.
(Police horses would be exempt
from the law.)

The bill, which would take effect
Jan. 1, is expected to be signed by
Mayor Koch after hearings today
andonAug. 19.

The measureﬁacgisrdmg tolllisealth
Department 0 ic' , "spe out
and puts teeth into” some regula-
tions already on the books, provid-

‘ingcrlminalpenaitiesolﬂommo

fines and up to 15 days' imprison-
ment.

‘A Wagner Act for Horses’

“It’ s a Wagner Act for horses,”
said Henry J. Stern, Manhattan
Democratic Councilman at large,
alluding to the 1935
legislation that protected workers
with the National Labor Relations

Act. Mr. Stern, a 00-8 r of the
horse bill with Counciman Morton
Povman a Queens Democrat,

added. “The only thing it doesn’t
give working horses is a mandatory
retirement age”

The immediate reaction among
horse owners wasaresounding na.y

"Why should we get saddled with
this— 825 for what?" asked Sue
Smith-Vomero, a one-horse owner
on Staten Island, where the horse
population is estimated at nearly
1,000 by the Staten island Horse-
men’ s Association.

At Chateau Stables, a carriage-
horse establishment on West 48th
Street in Manhattan, Mike Quinn,
the manager, was almost beside
himself th anger over what he
called “the license money grab. ” It
would cost him 3675 a year for 27
horses.

“What are they gonna do for the
horse?" he asked. “Put up a tree to
shade him? Bring a water wagon for
him?"

After two and a half slow-gaited
years, the “horse licensing and pro-
tection measure” moved gallop-
a-trot through the City Council on
July21,passing40too.

It would be the city’s first licens-
ing of horses, beyond the rmits
and inspections required or car-
riages, drivers and commercial
stables.

For carriage horses, the maxi-
mum pace permitted would be a
trot. Riding horses could center but
not gallop. Time clocks would be re-
quired in riding stables to prove that
no rented horse was ridden more
thaneighthoursoutofanyu Car-
riage horses would be allowed to
work 111th of 20

The metal license tags would be
worn on the bridle “between the
ears” or on the harness. Carriage
horses already have identity num-
bers branded on the left front hoof.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
Animals, which is already
charged with mforcing the state law
cruel The money from 11-

Strlcter Standards Set

Although both agencies say they
are seriously understaffed, the bill’s

ions include stiffers

stable sanitation, stall size, vet-
erinaryexaminations, food quantity
and quality and other healthand
safety factors.

Mr. Quinn at Chateau Stables
complained that "too man people
that signed up to testify at Coun-
cilh werenever called or
kept informed." Bym his account, the

by the Consumer airs

ment after a decade at $10, was still .

inadequate to cover the cost of car-
riagerepairand other expenses.

“If it costs, you gotta make,” he
said firmly. “Koch says we gotta
tighten our belts. Tell 27 horses
you’re gonna tighten their belts!
Right now, we put horseaon a scale
and ask a vet, ‘What's the bare
minimum, per body weight. we can
feed this horse?’ "

At the Claremont Riding Acad-
emy, which has "almost 1 " board-
ingand for-hirehorsesonWeﬁﬁth

ation “a terrible
small business-

spirit’of the new regulations for good

The city’ 3 nonracing,non poceli
horse ation is estimated at
2,.000 O the approximate 1,000
horses known to the city, about half
are owned by commercial stables
and half are boarded in them but
owned by individuals. Staten Island
has 322 of these horses, Brooklyn
235; Manhattan. 212; the Bronx, 151,
andQueens, 87.

E

 

I 'l'beNow Yuan! Delano“ ~‘- ‘
Included in the planned licensing are horses that are privately held, such as Kelly Bear,
below, owned by Lindy Mastornardi, those owned by riding academics, above, seen

being led by riders into Central Park and horses that pull the carriages in the park.

 

 

' 1
l

 




 

Energy and En vifanment’

 

Plant ‘Loses’ 25 Pounds of Plutonium

A 25-pound shortage of plutoni-
um—lenough to make two atom

Savannah River
fh Carolina, Depart-
- " " 7 officials reported,
‘ to be alarmed
about.” Invento _ at the nuclear
weapons factory galed that the
plutonium disappe .
Oct. 1, 1979, and Marc g
officials at the plant bl
crepancy on “imprecise

t d t kin . 1
men 3 an no any d o ‘ posed use of Compound 1080 be-

The report also showed a .
pound shortage of enriched u

and a 3.96-pound shortage of pluto-
nium 238.

The government’s program to fi-
nance sewage treatment plants 1

nothing is d e to curtail the con-
struction 9 gram, an additional $90
billion . federal funds will be
needed over the next 20 years. Gor-

such has appe to the public to
support Presid ff» Reagan’s sewage
treatment plan, ;; ich would sharp~
ly restrict -. 1; _ overnment ex—
penditures. ’

The nation’s sheep and cattle in—
dustry has failed to justify resuming
the use of a controversial poison to
combat losses from coyotes, accord-
ing to testimony by environmental
groups at a Washington hearing.
Environmentalists said they 0p-

cause it not only kills coyotes but
also a variety of other wildlife. Use
of Compound 1080 was banned in
1972. However, the American

Woolgrowers Assn. said their $160
million a year losses from predators
could be reduced by $40 million
through use of Compound 1080.

g- s acoratories in
on a proposed
iid force building
sites, officials
‘fjsmen for Sandia
y and Lawrence
tory said build-
or1ng sites were

geologic map, c-
restrictions on

first mapped 1n

, ’ LOS ANGELES TIMES - August 3, 1981

 




 

 

THE BOSTON GLOBE - July 22,

6’8 not

yOllI‘

average monkey

By Carol Stocker
Globe Staff

The small brown capuchin monkey
doesn't do windows. but she does dust and
vacuum.

Her name is Hellion and she also turns
lights on and off. opens doors on com-
mand. pops cassettes into a tape recorder.
and can serve her master lunch and comb

'his hair. ‘
"She makes lightning look slow! If you
~ taught her to disco. she'd probably make
the records go faster." chuckled her mas-
ter. 24-year-old Robert Foster of Water-
town as he watched her fondly from his
wheelchair.

In contrast, Foster's body is impris-
oned by a terrible stillness. When he was
18 and just graduated from high school.
his car slid into a tree in Providence. Fos-
ter's spine was injured and paralyzed so
that he can move only his head and shrug
his shoulders. ‘

But from the neck up. Robert Foster is ‘

a fighter who bobs and weaves as he
talks. His eyes roll and his face rearranges
itself around each joke and opinion as
though his head had assumed all the ani-
mation that most people express through
their entire bodies.

' Foster and Hellion are participants in
an experimental relationship which could
change the lives of many of the 75.000
quadriplegics in. the country. according to
Mary Joan Willard. She created the Tufts
Primate Project to train monkeys to act as
aides to the severely disabled. Famed be-
haviorist BF. Skinner. a mentor of Wil-
lard’s. says the project is unique and valu—
able. "She started this and worked out the
problems. It's a very original contribu-
tion."

Willard got the idea while she was
working with Skinner. helping to organize
his autobiography. She had also been de-
ing volunteer work with a quadriplegic

friend. The two separate experiences '

. gelled into a single idea one day while she
was plugging in a tape cassette for a hos-
pital patient: if dogs could be trained to
“"see for the blind. why couldn't monkeys
learn to “do" for the paralyzed?

Skinner pronounced the idea feasible.
Willard and Cayee Cover. a talented ani-
mal trainer. began acquiring and working

. with monkeys.

Lucky for Hellion. .

She was a laboratory animal scheduled

 

for fatal experiments as part of ﬂu vaccine
research when Willard bought her.

But the project dragged for two years
before Willard. an assistant professor of
rehabilitation medicine at Tufts Medical
Center. could find “anyone willing to fund
anything which sounded so bizarre." Fi-
nally. in late 1979. Willard received
$23,000 from the Paralyzed Veterans of
America and work began in earnest.

‘Hellion proved the aptest pupil.

“She has a personality." said Judi Za-
zula. another of Hellion’s trainers. "She's
inquisitive. comical. sweet. She plays . ..
delicately. as opposed to the others who
are more monkey-like. She picks up facial
expressions and more. She crosses the line
more into playing like a human. .

“When I was teaching her how to fwd
Robert. 1 let her practice on my 10-month-
old nephew." said Zazula. "He was just
there. smiling. with his mouth open. He”
didn't care whether the food was coming
from a person or a monkey. And Hellion
was just shoveling it in without knowing
whether he was another furry little monv
key or not."

The line between animal and human
gets pretty fuzzy with an animal as used
to people as Hellion. who has definitely de-
cided she prefers life in human living-
ro'oms to animal laboratories.

Meanwhile. Robert Foster also made
his escape from institutional life. He was
abetted by Susan Williams. a nurse he
met while he was living at the Braintree
Hospital. She agreed to be his personal
care attendant (PCA) and roommate and
found an apartment in Watertown. A
stateadministered program. Center for In-
dependent Living pays for rent and six
hours a day of PCA time.

But when Susan Williams was away at
work during the day. Foster was helpless.
unable even to eat lunch. ,

If the mouthpiece by which he controls
his wheelchair got out of reach. Foster sat
alone and stranded until Williams re-
turned nine hours later. This often hap
pened when he slipped down inhis chair
or he yanked his body into a change of po-

sition to avoid getting sores. Similarly, if _

Foster dropped the mouthstick he used to
turn book pages. dial his telephone, 'or
type, he was unable to enjoy any of these
activities until Williams got home to pick
the stick up. ' .
MONKEY. Page 45

’5’
7- .

. . . brushing her master‘s hair for personal grooming . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . . dusting

tubes and . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




This monkey is handicapped man’s best friend

I MONKEY
Continued from Page 43

it was on one of these long typical day: that
Foster saw Mary Joan Willard on a local talk
show describing how capuchin monkeys can
help the handicapped. He called her, and after a
long interview. Foster was introduced to Hel-
lion.

it was hate at first sight - on Hellion‘s side.

Most of the monkeys being trained have gen—
der preferences, and Hellion was used to wom-
en.

One day Foster and Hellion got stuck in a
room together until Williams returned home
from work — and Hellion never stopped scresm—
ing.

a megaphone,” said Foster. “Such screaming?

Such wailing! For nine hours she drove me out '

of my mind. I tried closing my eyes and thinking
about something else . . He shut his eyes and
shook his head. “Nothing helped."

This match was clearly not working out.

Trainer Judi Zazula decided to break the ice V

by teaching Hellion to kiss Foster. Well. actual—
ly. at first. the monkey was just taking a raisin
out of Foster‘s mouth.

According to Foster. Hellion's response to
him changed drastically. “it was like someone
had taken her away and replaced her with a
different monkey. inch by inch."

Zazula's thinks it was Foster who changed
first.

“When you get a kiss from someone. it
makes you feel close to them. The rest of us
could cuddle and pet her. but Robert couldn't.
This kissing was something mechanical he
could do to have contact with her. But till then
she hated him and he hadn‘t gotten any plea-
: sure from her. He gave her commands, but he
never had any softness in his voice."

After Hellion learned her new trick. “Robert
started to get this softening of voice. He started
to coax her. to sweet-talk her." said Zazula.
”Now she has a deep affection for him. in the
morning she gets on the bed with him and kiss-

es him all over his face and neck. and purrs to _

him and makes her sweet little love noises."
The fondness between the two is one of the
nicest aspects of the relationship. observed Za-
zula, even though. "You don‘t get grant money
for love. you get it for showing what percentage
of the time the monkey will pick up an object."
Hellion is not a pet. She's a partner. She

feeds Foster by retrieving special containers of '

food and drink from the refrigerator and setting
them in special trays. He feeds her rewards by
activating a food pellet release mechanism with
a laser attached to his wheelchair mouth con-
trol. When she misbehaves. Foster can use the
laser to activate a warning tone and a mild
shock in a belt Hellion wears. About 19 times
out of 20. he uses the warning tone alone for the
same effect. He also can steer the laser beam
with his teeth to spotlight an object he wants
picked up and to show where he wants it
moved.

,- Of course, there are still a few bugs in the
system. Hellion will happily follow the laser
beam with her miniature vacuum cleaner with-
out turning on the machine. for instance. She‘s
been conditioned to follow the laser but doesn't
know the point is to pick up the dust.

But Hellion's affection and antics have

changed Foster‘s tightly circumscribed world ;

that once centered largely around television

shows. Now he discusses her progress like a ‘

proud teacher.

"When she can‘t open the top to the food 1

tray. she makes a noise and jumps up and down
like a little kid having a tantrum." he reported.
as Hellion dismantled a Dixie cup while hanging
upside down in her living room cage.

. “i can sit and watch her for hours. When
you're depressed. well. everyone should have a
monkey like her. swinging around. doing stupid
stuff. You laugh. You gotta cheer up."

‘ Hellion chattered sociably. and Foster made
a clicking noise in reply.

_ The verdict on the feasibility of "simian
aides" to the severely disabled is not yet in. But
l0 other monkeys are being socialized and
trained in the project‘s makeshift office in Cen-
tral Square. Cambridge. Two other capuchins
are about to be assigned to quadriplegic mas-

rs.
l Willard and her assistants are enthusiastic
about one named Susu who is about to be paired

With a Mattapoisett man interested in using her :
to help him work at home on a computer. He ’

fist needs someone available to pick up his
mouth stick and plug in the machine to make
him employable.

- Larger and slower than Hellion. Susu is a dif-
ferent species of capuchin. (Hellion is a Cebus
albifrons while Susu is a Cebus apellal. Be—
gause they have a longer attention span and are

A AAAAA ‘A‘

AAAAAAAA A__AA.I

 

”She has an unbelievable pair of lungs - like

 

 

It will cost
about the 7
same to train
a monkey as
a Seein Eye
dog —- 000.
But a trained
capuchin
lives about 30
years in
captivity.

 

more placid. Willard will be switching to apel—
las to train.

What is the future for the project?

"it's not a sure thing. but it‘s a very promis-
ing thing." said Willard.

She'll move the project from Cambridge to
New York when she joins the staff of the Albert
Einstein Medical School in September. “They've
offered me facilities which have been unavail-
able at Tufts." Judi Zazula will trouble-shoot
for Hellion and Foster in this area when Willard
leaves. .

Willard‘s hope is to see the simian aide con-
cept institutionalized into schools such as those
that train guide dogs and their blind owners.
Willard estimated that it will cost about the
same to train a monkey as a Seeing Eye dog —
$8000. But a trained capuchin. which lives

about 30 years in captivitity. has a much longer
lifespan than a dog.

The PVA renewed its grant and the National
Science Foundation has contributed 354.000.

"it‘s controversial. but so far, the results
have been exciting." said Dr. Jim Aller. pm
gram director of science and technology to aide
the handicapped at the NSF in Washington.
DC. “The cost savings over hiring full—time at-
tendants alone justifies exploring the potential.
And for some people who can enjoy monkeys as
pets. there may be psychological benefits.“

Willard expects to spend another two years
in research. “Then the crunch will come when
we try to turn it into a program. We can place a.
dozen monkeys and show it's feasible. But can
we get a program started that will train 50 or
100 a year?"

 

 




Hos Angelea Gimee

State Plan Opposedby Environmentalists 7. P,
Texas Wants to Turn Island Refuge of Whooping Crane Into State Recreation Area

By MARY BARRINEAU, Dallas Times Herald ,

MATAGORDA ISLAND, Tex.-
Environmentalists nearly always
use the word “pristine" to describe
this 41-mile strip of land off the
Texas coast.

They tell you it is the last barrier
island along the entire Gulf Coast to
avoid the encroachment of civiliza-
tion. They conjure up visions of pa-
radise as they describe the wide
sand beaches, lush green grasses

' and the wildlife—majestic whoop-
ing cranes, ducks, deer, jackrabbits.

They tell you they are worried
that two developments on the most-
ly federally owned island—rocket
launches and a threatened takeover
by the Texas Parks and Wildlife
Department—will interfere with
the untouched quality of the island,
accessible only by boat.

They forget to mention the cow
dung.

Mosquitoes are so fierce on the is-
land at night the cows come down
to the beach to take advantage of

~ the breezes. When they leave in the
morning, the beige sand along Ma-
tagorda’s gulf beaches is covered

with manure, detracting consider-
ably from the “pristine" atmos-
phere. .

Despite the bugs, which caused
Spanish explorers to make a quick
retreat as they hurled the epithet
“purgatory” at the inhospitable
place, and despite the cow dung, the
island is the center of a fierce de-
bate over who will win control of
19,000 acres abandoned by the Air
Force in 1975. '

The area is now managed as a
federal wildlife refuge, but Texas
.Gov. William P. Clements Jr. has
asked, as have former governors.
that the island be given to the state
for development as a recreation
area.

Interior Secretary James Watt
indicated in a May 29 letter to Cle-
ments that he would prefer trans-
ferring wildlife refuges to state
management wherever possible.

The land could be turned over to

the state if such a transfer were

consistent with federal policy and

law, he said.
Environmentalists, however, are

horrified at the prospect of the
Texas Parks and Wildlife Depart-
ment taking over the wintering
ground for the nation's whooping
cranes.

“Any sort of development at all
could be disastrous," said John
Grandy. executive vice president of
Defenders of Wildlife, in Washing-
ton. “Our nation has put millions
into saving the whooping crane. We
have brought it back from the brink
of extinction to 78 birds."

“It would be singularly absurd to
give away 19,000 acres and ruin a
30- year effort,” said Grandy.

Ned Fritz, a Dallas lawyer who is
chairman of the Texas Committee
on Natural Resources, said there
are plenty of developed coastal
areas for tourists to enjoy. The state
needs to maintain at least one island
as a prime example of a natural bar—
rier island, he said.

The state's proposal for develop—
ment of the island would turn it into
“a Coney Island for hunters,” Fritz

said.
The 1975 plan called for a ferry

system to the island. a mass transit
system, parking for 350 cars, blinds
and stands for hunters, game-
cleaning areas, game refrigeration
units, overnight accommodations.
concessions, 800 acres of cultivated
plots for mourning doves, 400 acres
of corn and wheat fields for deer.
covered picnic tables. a 300-foot
fishing pier and chemical toilets.

Texas Parks and Wildlife Direc-
tor Dicky Travis said a new plan
drawn up by his staff parallels the
1975 plan to a large extent.

“It's all very tentative,” he said.
“We don’t even have the land yet
and the plan could change 10
times." .

Environmentalists are also con-
cerned about the launching of a pri-
vately owned rocket from the is-
land’s south end, owned by Dallas
oilman Toddie Lee Wynne.

Although the whooping cranes
and other migratory birds have
gone north for the winter and aren’t
on the island now to be adversely
affected, there is worry that Space
Services, the Houston-based firm

.4 I, p

Wednesday, [August 5, 198] / Part 15A" * ‘7

that is sending up the first private
rockets launched in the United
States, will decide to use Matagorda
as a permanent launching pad. .

“I’m all for the space effort, but I
can’t in my wildest imagination see
the whooping cranes sticking
around if they’re shooting off rock-
ets," Said Grandy. “They're very
sensitive birds.”

David Hannah. president of the
company. says the island would be a
perfect location, but so far Wynne, a
Space Services investor, hasn't giv-
en permission for launches beyond

. the first one.

State officials say they believe
they can do a better job of managing
public land on the island than the
federal government.

“The United States government
cannot possibly manage all of the
wildlife and natural areas in exis-
tence throughout the country, from
either a practical or fiscal stand-
point," Clements said in his letter to
Watt.

“Sole fee title of the property
must be transferred to the State of

’42 “V
4 4 >
#1

Texas if the wildlife and vital eco-
system are to be adequately
protected and preserved,” said ,Cle-
merits. - fag

Fritz points to statements in the
1975 state management pr osal
that he believes don’t bode wel for
wildlife under state control.

“Should the US. Fish and Wild-
life Service gain control of the'fed—
eral property. which is located in a
prime waterfowl area of the'l‘eitas
coast, it has already made it knoWn
that a portion of the island in the'vi-
cinity of Panther Point will be
closed to the public during thetime
the whooping cranes are present.
which includes the traditional
waterfowl season," said the plan.

"The (Texas) Parks and Wildlife
Department feels that protection of
the whooping cranes and their, use
of the island should be given pridri—
ty consideration. but should. not
preclude use of the island merely
because of the ‘potential’ for con-
flict,” it continued. - 5’

Watt is sending a team to‘inspe'ct

Please see ISLAND, rig. 8

 




8 Part l-A / Wednesday, August 5, l98l

ISLAND: Texas Plans a Recreation Site

Continued from 7th Page

the island, talk to state officials and
make a recommendation to him,
said Jon Ford, the governor’s exec-
utive press secretary. '
“We don't expect anything to be

finalized for some time,” Ford said.

Four US. Fish and Wildlife offi- ,

eers regulary patrol the island, with
two of them living in old Air Force
quarters. They are avoiding com-
ment on the controversy, although

they say they do wish it would be ' ‘

settled one «way‘or? another.

_ Because theGeneral Service Ad- .

ministration still holds the deed for
the land, the island refuge has no
separate budget. Funds from the
nearby Aransas Wildlife Refuge
must be used. About 12,000 people a
year visit the island to fish and
camp or participate in one of several
controlled bird hunts.

Wynne and a former landowner, 7

Joe Hawes of Port O’Connor, Tex.,
lease the federal land for cattle
grazing. ' .'

The cattle on Wynne’s privately

7 owned south portion of the island '

have been stirred up lately by the
rocket activity in the middle of their
pasture. . ~

' The rooket's deVelopers have
been emphasizing that theirs is a
low-budget Operation, but until the
tiny concrete launch pad surround-
ed by cows with the 54-foot rocket
lying on its side nearby is seen, their
comments cannot be adequately ap-

' preciated. A small travel trailer
- nearby appears to be the “Mission a

Control” of the operation.

The abandoned air base at the op-
posite end of the island gives the
area an eerie appearance. The old
runways are sprouting grass. The
sides of an old airplane hangar are
caving in. Most of the 44 buildings
stand empty.

“Whoever laid out this place
must have been a second lieutenant
and he must have been drunk for
about 30 days,” refuge officer Mikey
Harris said. The roads seem to be
built in the wrong places, and take
roundabout routes.

The only trees on the island are
palms planted by the Air Force.
which used the base as a rest and
recreation headquarters. “The top
brass would fly in every now and

'- then to hunt. They even had VIP

quarters, like a motel. Every unit

'had a different colored door,” said

' Frank _. Johnson, director of the

Aransas refuge.
Cast up from the sea as recently

' as 5,000 years ago, Matagorda Island

gives off an air of transience.

After abortive exploration at.
tempts by the Spanish and pri-
vateering and smuggling by Jean
Lafitte, settlements developed on
the island in the 1850s. Little re-
mains today of two towns that were
abandoned during the Civil War.

Now the air base has been left tn-
the elements, as have all previous
settlements on the island.

“It exists to be used but not occu~
pied. It is a passive place, and those
who have tried to force it to yield
them a home and a living here for
the most part left disappointed."
said Griffin Smith Jr. who contri~
buted to a 1973 University of Texas
study of the island.

“The ultimate beauty of Matagor—

da rests not in any natural or histor-
ical uniqueness-for it resembles
other portions of the Texas coast in
many more ways than it differs
from them—but in its isolation.
- “Once its inaccessibility is lost.
Matagorda will be little more than
another piece of coastal real estate.“
he said.

 




 

L
r

THE BOSTON GLOBE - July 30, 1981

Reagan policies threaten marine environment

 

GERRY I. 510005

 

In less than six months. the federal
government has been transformed
from at least intermittently jealous
guardian of our ocean resources into
their most aggressive salesman. The
Reagan Administration seeks to offer
to the highest bidder, without hesita—
tion or conditions, the oil and miner-
als which are the most obvious. but
far from the most valuable. posses-
sions of the sea. .

_} Since January. the new Adminis—
tration has:

-virtually scuttled. at the behest of
the oceans mining industry. a decade-
lo‘ng negotiating process aimed at ob—
taining worldwide agreement on the
haw of the Sea;

5 -—proposed leasing for oil and gas
development the entire Outer Conti-
nental Shelf of the United States.
claiming that our national interest in
such development overrides all other
interests; . ‘

. ‘—ordered the development of regu—
lations to permit increased ocean dis-
posal of sewage sludge and industrial

aste;

? -proved that you can fight an idea
whose time has come. by opposing
pessage of comprehensive oil pollu—
tion liability and compensation legis-
lation previously endorsed by the oil
industry. shipping and barge opera-
tors. environmentalists. four federal
agencies. the insurance industry and
state governments:

~ —slashed spending for all types of
oceanographic and marine-related en—
vironmental research:

-—proposed eliminating the 25-year—
old Saltonstall fisheries development
program; _

—proposed ending federal support
for coastal zone management, despite
ever-increasing population, industrial

and recreational pressures on the
coast:

-proposed ending the Sea Grant
program which for more than a dec—
ade has been producing. at minimal
cost. the type of scientific expertise
this nation must possess to under-
stand. preserve and utilize with confi—
dence the resources of the marine
environment;

-proposed eliminating federal sup-
port for ocean thermal energy conver-
sion. perhaps the most promising

ministration to short-change the
ocean environment; it is simply that
other considerations seem to them far
more urgent. The Reagan people aim
to slash spending for non-defense ori-
ented programs. regardless ’of the
small size or relative merit which par-
ticular programs may possess. They
are committed to substituting in-
creased domestic oil production for an
energy policy. because they are under
the illusion that the oil industry some-
how remains a friend of competition

 

It is my belief, and I suspect this is a view
shared by the majority of the American people,
that a bounteous, thriving ocean is a bequest to
'the future moredfitting by far than a sea too
hastily strippe of its oil, its minerals and the

 

productivity of its chain of life.

i

technology in existence for generating
electric power from the warmth of the
sun;and -

—made cuts in the budget of the US
Coast Guard whiCh may endanger
both the'agency itself. and all those
who depend upon it for aids to naviga-
tion, search and rescue, oil spill clean-
up. fisheries law enforcement and
other vital services. ..

Collectively. these initiatives will
expose the ocean to continually in;
creasing levels of exploitation. while
steadily removing the tools now avail—
able to scientists. state and local gov-
ernments, fishermen and others seek—
ing to understand and preserve the

, riches of the ocean for future genera-

tions.
It is critical to understand that

these policies stem not from a desire'

on the part of anyone in the new Ad-

 

 

 

and free enterprise in this country.
Finally. they see themselves in the
midst of a “resource war" with the So-
viet Union and the third world.

Their commitment to these three
concepts is such that it causes them
to reject thoughtful analysis of partic-
ular government programs. the les-
sons of scientific and environmental
research, the legitimate rights and
needs of other nations. the role of

state governments in coastal and

[oceans planning, and sometimes even
the dictates of existing federal law.
The Administration's radical ap-
proach to oceans policy will have a
”substantial impact on utilization of
the oceans for years to come. Equally
certain, however. will be the gradual
disintegration of the Reagan ap-
proach as experience slowly teaches
our new leaders the lessons about

dealing with the oceans which so
many others have already learned.

These lessons are simple, but sim-
ple lessons are often ignored when one
is in a hurry. The Administration is
sure to find that no shortcut exists for
sound economic and environmental
planning: they will discover the courts
rather than Congress have the capaci-
ty and the will to put sensible limits
on the pace of offshore oil leasing;
they will find that taking time to ac-
commodate competing users of the sea
will ultimately hasten, rather than
retard. the achievement of reasonable
developmental goals; they will learn
that whatever may be the case on
land, ocean pollution, at least. is not
caused by trees.

These lessons will be learned, but
for the moment the Reagan Adminis-
tration seems determined to learn
them in the hardest possible way. and
at the greatest cost both to the oceans
and to the development of sound pub—
.lic policy.

It is my belief . and I suspect this is
a view shared by the majority of the
American people, that a bounteous.
thriving ocean is a bequest to the fu-
ture more fitting by far than a sea too
hastily stripped of its oil. its minerals
and the productivity of its chain of
life. As immersed as all of us are in the
rhetoric of energy production and the
good will of our guardian industrial
angels. I continue to suggest that the
ability to say. “Wait a minute." “Not
yet." “Not here, you don't.” and "Over
my dead body” remains, when pru-
dently exercised. an indispensible
skill.

In dealing with the oceans, there
are. after all, some mistakes which
cannot be made twice.

Gerry E. Studds is the Democratic
congressman from the 12th Massa-
chusetts District. ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 




He saves
animals;
anywhere,

anytime

By Joan Millman
Special to The Globe
At the House of the Angel Guardian. a
former convent on Perkins street. Jamai-
ca Plain. a modern St. Francis worries his
way through the world of animals. He
may be conducting a seminar in the
stained-glass chapel of the western head-
quarters of the World Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals (WSPA). taking a call
from a Central/American outpost or dic-
tating a report to Canadian and US offi-
cials on the atrocities of the seal hunt.
From an office cluttered with shells,
skins. exotic artifacts, pet dogs and a
mascot cat, regional director John Walsh
stretches a protective arm to animals in
lands as farﬂung as Nova Scotia and Suri-
nam. to such diverse situations as a
threstened whale or a drowning anteater.
Energetic. fast-talking. fast-moving.
Walsh, of Channel 2's "Walsh’s Animals"
is spokesperson here for the prestigious
London-based private society. Clad in the ‘
tailored suit and rep tie of a top business-
man. ,Walsh is equally at ease in the heat
of a jungle. the torpor of a rain forest. bit-
ten by beast and insect. or smitten by pla-
gues and pests. Within any 24-hour peri-
od. Walsh could be traveling from below-
freezing whiteness to below the. steam
equator. .—_ . , . , ‘
His closet at home is filled from one end
to the other with arctic totropic clothing

and gear. He keeps ready his “bag of”
tricks" - stunning gun. insect repellents. ..

medical supplies, antibiotics. whatever
might be necessary for any animal-related

emergency. Wherevef""‘riatﬁral "or man-”
made disaster occurs !— ‘volcano. earth-r;

quake. ﬂood or fire —- WSPA can mobilize
within 24 hours 17 top rescuers from
throughout the world and hundreds of
standby volunteers as well (“adventur-
ers". Walsh calls them) to create an in-
stant Red Cross for animals.

in 1964’s famous “Operation Gwam—
ba" [gwam‘ba means animal in Surinese),
Walsh was dispatched to the Surinam
(formerly Dutch Guiana) jungle where ar-
tificial ﬂooding from the closing of a dam
threatened to make extinct all its existing
lifeforms. A graphic letter of appeal to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals (MSPCA) from the
_

THE BOSTON GLOBE - August 11, 1981

Q

Regional director of World Society for the Protection of Animals, John Walsh. and

Surinam SPCA exhorted people to note
“time is short and the water rises". the
title Walsh chose for the book he later
wrote of his unforgettable experience

. 7 H [A lifelong naturalist, Walsh was then a ..
"law enforcement agent for the MSPCA. He

knew well the North American animal but
the tropics would require instant judg-

ments based on manners and moods .

grasped in the raw. . ,

1' ‘ "Should I save even the deadly bush? ~

maSter snake?" Walsh asked" before

departing. After all. this type of rescue

was his first.

"We don't . determine what animals
walk the earth." replied Dr. Eric'Hansen.
MSPCA president at the time. "You are
not God. Save them all!"

"Saving them all" is the humane man-
date. Every insect, every rodent. every pre-
dator has its place in nature's delicate bal-
ance. Remove the snake. for instance. and
expect a proliferation of rats.

Thus. in a yesr and a half of work in
nesrly desperate conditions. Walsh and
his team of natives gently and humanely
removed nearly 10.000 aworted creatures
from their ﬂooded terrain. Sloths. arma-

dillos. tortoises. tree porcupines. deer.
monkeys. lizards. peccaries. kinkajous.
these barely indicate the scope of their in-
ventory and each required its own ingen-
ious approach. Most challenging were the
large cats. such as the jaguars and ocelots,
stunned and precisely drugged by tran-
‘quilizer guns. CI .

. . Since its founding in 1959. the interna-

tional society has worked closely with lo-

Teal humane societies and animal rights

.-.groups. Originally known as the interna-

tional Society for the Protection of Ani-
mals (lSPA). it began as a result of the con-
cerns of private animal-protection agen-
cies which felt a nesd for an organization
working beyond the restrictions of indi-
vidual nations. In January. lSPA merged
with the World Federation for the Protec-
tion of Animals, becoming WSPA. WSPA
derives its joint authority from more than
300 animal protection societies in more
than 55 countries who support it either by
individual or organizational membership.
A private nonprofit society. WSPA re-

ceives no public funding and is beholden

' GLOBE FILE PHOTC‘

python friend.

to no nation. as such. but acts as media-
tor. advisor and lobby for the ,rights of
domestic. exotic. living. threatened or en-
dangered animals anywhere in the world.

its board of directors .consists of dele-
gates from the federation of societies
(mainly SPCA’s) who support it, making it
a loosely-held mutual network. A fulltime
director general in London. Trevor Scott.
is aided by regional directors in London,
Zurich and Boston. who in turn head
small fulltime staffs. ‘

With the assistance of a scientific/tech-
nical advisory committee. WSPA makes
policy which crosses national borders.
Since there has never been an actual in-
ternational protection law. WSPA repre
sentatives sit with others throughout the
world to implement and evaluate the cur—
rent comprehensive tresty. The Conven~
tion on international Trade in Endan-
gered Species of Wild Fauna and ’ Flora

_ (CITES). adopted in the United States in

the spring of 1973 and in Switzerland in
late 1974. The Treaty. written in English.
French. Spanish. Chinese and Russian. is

Continued on next page

'l-"’

 




G

 

He will go an'yWhere to save an animal

Continued from preceding page

registered at the United Nations
and remains in the jurisdiction of
the UN Environment Program.

As fragile in its language as the
lives it proposes to extend. the
Treaty begins in this lyric way:

“The Contracting States.
RECOGNIZING that wild fauna
and ﬂora in their many beautiful
and varied forms are an irreplace-
able .part of the natural systems
of the earth which must be pro-
tected for this and the genera-
tions to come; .
CONSCIOUS of the ever-growing
value of wild fauna and ﬂora from
aesthetic. scientiﬁc. cultural, rec:
reational and economic points of
view:

RECOGNIZING that peoples and;

states are and should be the best
protectors of their own wild fauna
and ﬂora:

RECOGNIZING, in addition. that
international cooperation is es-
sential for the protection of cer-
tain species of wild fauna and ﬂo-
ra against over-exploitation
through international trade:
CONVINCED of the urgency of
taking appropriate measures to
this end HAVE AGREED as fol—
lows . . '

The Treaty. alas. relying heavily
on personal conscience. is not al-
ways upheld and is difficult to
enforce.

Ask any agent of the US Divi—
sion of Fisheries and Wildlife. un-
der the Department of the interior.
which scrutinizes offenses and pro-
secutes the violations. At every
”border port". points of entry

whether at an actual border or not. .

these agents seize animals in illegal
transport. Alive. dying. already
dead or preserved. Skins. shells.
feathers. eggs. They are smuggled
for personal fancy (something to
show off) or private profit (often
more valuable than narcotics).

ln Third World nations. there is
seldom any highly-developed con-
sciousness toward threatened ani—
mal life. Latin American, African
and Asian wildlife are a product of
the economy. a means to human.

 

Rhino horns
Velvet antlers
Bear livers

' Pony skins _
Live primates
ivory carvings ‘

Bear claws . ‘
(As listed by US Division of Fisheries and Wildlife)

 

Recent illegal travelers at Logan

Live toads

Tropical fish
Snakeskins

Raccoon coats

Water buffalo horns
Crocodile watch straps
Ostrich eggs

 

 

survival. To garner. sell. smuggle.
slaughter or transport what earns
money to feed bellies is to give little
regard to the survival of a species.
Contraband skins and hides. tusks
and horns. tropical fish and exotic
birds are apt to Start their journeys
from these parts of the world.

. John Walsh prods the con~
science with a practical approach.
Where livestock is killed for
slaughter in barbaric ways. he tells
natives that a bruised animal
means less available meat. Using
the profit motive. he makes slaugh-'
ter and transport more humane for
the beast. . '

To no avail has he harangued
.both his own add the Canadian
government to understand the con-
dition of the baby harp seal. And
still the whale figures in the eco-
nomic controversy between conser-
vationists and Nova Scotia fisher-
men.

So it is not only‘ sudden disas-
ters that activate the man. The
continual smuggling of contraband
finds him suddenly taking off to ca-
jole merchants and consuls in for-
eign ports. First a tip will come into
the Boston office. Perhaps
mismarked packing cases have
been noted making their way to a
shipping harbor. Then either‘
Walsh or his assistant. Jim
Pfeiffer, hop a plane to somewhere
south of the border. The facts are
gathered. Next there is a call to the
authorities where the smuggled
goods are destined. With the
panache of a “foreign intrigue"
spy. Walsh sees that the goods are
seized. examined. and the export-
ers apprehended. .

.One such recent "tip" was an

outcry against the alleged new
bearskin hats of the Cold Stream
Guards. said to be updated for the
royal wedding. .

”Ridiculous!" states Colin Platt.
Walsh‘s British counterpart. “That
many pelts couldn‘t be tanned in
time anyway. even if you could
round up enough grizzlies (endan-
gered) for that purpose}

While that rumor was false.
many are true. Then. with no en—
forcing powers of its own. WSPA
turns to those who have it. At US
Customs. the Division of Fisheries
and Wildlife inspectors continue to
uncover one violation after anoth~
er. David Swendsen. formerly an
undercover agent for the Division.
and now the special agent in
charge of the New England district.
is dismayed at the minimum fine
imposed on those his office pro-
secutes. .

“it reﬂects a value system that
has little regard for its natural
resources." he shrugs in disgust.

D

As Walsh roams his half of the
world. so do the legends. Some say
he is publicity hungry. but the pub-
licity is motivated by a hunger for
funds. which are often elicited by
the reports of the sympathetic

press.

During the well-exposed “Noah
II" operation in Panama in the
mid-70's. dozens of wire service
and international media outlets
covered the plight of the thousands
of threatened wildlife. again being
threatened by a manmade ﬂood. At
the construction site of the

$55.000.000 hydroelectric project

at the Bayano dam. and again

against formidable odds. an experi.
enced "Jungle John" pulled off an
other incredible rescue feat. But.
despite the widespread coverage.
appeals for corporate funds
brought in little Instead. hundreds
of school children. responding to
the Weekly Reader story. helped
pay for the venture with a deluge of
nickels and dimes. .

Then one hears of an earlier es-

capade following the 1970 earth—

quake in Peru. The altitude of the
Andes proved. literally. “breath-
taking“. When he finally caught
his breath and his stride. Walsh.
tall among even tall men. took his
long strides through the devastated
villages. bringing food. supplies.
pharmaceuticals. moral support.
not only to animals but to the
frightened lndians as well. That he
was the first outsider to reach the
scene is proof of how quickly an
agency free of bureaucracy can act.

Saving animal lives also often

'means killing them. To stop an

animal's suffering or to prevent the
spread of disesse. animals must
sometimes be humanely killed. In

Peru. Walsh felt forced to give a

“Christian" burial to infected pigs.
placing a cross above them in the
local cemetery. to fool the starving
from digging up the animals and
eating the contaminated meat.

Sometimes kindness works two
ways. Some of the Peruvians real—
ized Walsh had broken his ubiqui-
tous pipe during his rescue work.
They followed him on his path days
later to prwent him with one newly
earved by their own hands.

in Mexico. he persuades the affi-
cianados of “junior bullfighting"
that the sport desensitizes impres—
sionable children to the value of
life.

in Costa Rica. he assists the 10--
cal humane society with its current
rabies problem.

In Panama. ‘he gives informa-
tion to scientists studying the cool—

:ogy of rescued animals of “Noah

ll". Elsewhere he is an observer of
the dog—fighting scene. One nation
nmds better animal shelters. while
another requests instruction in the
intricate use of stunning guns.

 

 




Section 1 - Chicago Tribune, Monday. August 17, 1981

UPl Telephoto

Hope for endangered species

Flossie, a black-and-white Holstein dairy cow, nuzzles her newborn gaur

named Manhar at the Bronx Zoo in New York. The birth otthe baby gaur, a

wild ox native to lndia, is the successful culmination of an experiment that

ultimately could increase the chance for survival of a number of endangered

species. In the project, a domestic animal is used as a surrogate mother for
fferent a

brown gaur, which
days. Manhar is an lnd

 




i

i

‘ 1955 Section 1

Chicago Tribune, Wednesday, August 19. 1981

Epint of View .

 

The beastly Bambi syndrome

; 3 By Ronald Buczek
. REMEMBER THE STORY of Tommy.

3the Bear, sentenced to die for biting an

11-year-old boy who, while the animal
as eating breakfast, reached into his
n? ' ‘ ‘

News of Tommy’s plight, and the ensu-
itg reprieve, predictably tugged at the 01’
h, artstrings. Score one for animal rights!
The animal is our friend. ,

g Unfortunately, the entire situation,
vt'ghich occurred last month at a Down-

state camp, points out the silly fantasy Of-

the Bambi syndrome. The beasts all have
cute names, speak English, and are just
like you and me.

A bear is an incredibly strong animal
and, in obvious instances, a dangerous

xbeast. Most children learn. at an early
»f:;gage that even the family cat or dog will
shite or scratch if provoked sufficiently.

The only way an animal can get any

respect from a human is to activate the
law of fang and claw. ‘

In, our national parks, stupid people
feed wild bears by hand through car
windows and even pet young cubs for
family picture-taking. Each year finds
more incidents of bears suddenly getting
violent if the food they have come to
expect is not forthcoming.

THE RESULT of many ‘of these en-
counters is that the bear usually pays the

 

TR "naId ‘Buczek, a warehouse worker,
wriLs on a variety of subjects.

, year.” Indeed!

price for human stupidity. If the animal

is fortunate, he will be drugged and ship- ,

ped farther into the wilderness. Mauling

foolhardvpeople means certain death.
I was in Alaska in the Army and knew

someone who was killed by a wild hear,

.so I have a profound respect for their size

and power. The victim was a part-time
barber at our battalion "barracks, a civi-

guide. .

“Huge bear kills two men” was the
headline on the front page of the Anchor-
age Daily News on Tuesday, April 17,
1956. “Ten heavily armed men today are
searching for a wounded grizzly bear
which killed two men Sunday about 25
miles north of Tazlina lodge, a Glen
Highway resort 156 miles north of An-
chorage.”

According to the, newspaper account,
'signs in the area, indicated that one of the
men poked a. stick into the bear’s den,
where it had spent the winter in hiberna-
tion. Needless to say, the hunters caught
the bear’s attention profoundly.

t The Fish and Wildlife Service in Fair-
banks said pOking a stick into a bear’s
den “was the worst thing the men could
do in trying to get a bear out of its den.
It’s not normal procedure this time of

~ lian who also made a living as an hunting

THE BODIES were found nearly 200

feet from the mouth of the den. The ‘

hunter’s gun had 'been emptied into the
bear. Lloyd G. Pennington, 56, the regis-

tered guide, , didn’t have a chance to fire
his weapon. ' , .

“Territorial police said they died. in-
stantly from being bitten about the
head.” Remarkable stupidity, by an ex-
perienced hunter and guide yet, resulted
in the deaths of two. men. '

The bear, an BOO-pound sow grizzly,
was soon tracked down and killed by a

posse of heavily armed men. Its destruc-

tion was preordained after the deaths of
human beings, though the people precipi-

tated the violence by their infringement
‘of the animal’s territory.

‘Tommy the Bear is a lucky animal.
Most of his kind fare badly in their run-
ins with the creatures supposedly made
in the image 'of God. He was fortunate to
have been a creature of captivity in this
case; a wild beast would have certainly
been destroyed without a public murmur.

Undergoing a painful series of rabies
shots should provide a lesson to the
young camper. Indeed, the child is unbe-
lievably fortunate, given the size of the
animal, to still have his arm.

If you get between Bambi and his doe
you’ll find a set of antlers planted in,
your midriff. Give him no placeto go in
your zeal to feed him some crumbs and
you may get some souvenir hoofprints on
your forehead. '

In short, if you fool around with the,
.animals, don’t cry if Bambi doesn’t ans-I
wer to his name, speak your language,
and act as silly as the average human
being.

 




Through

the LOOP-hole

By Mike Royko '

HICAGO ._. This is a subject I

usually try to avoid because it

arouses such heated passions

in otherwise calm people. It
causes them to fly into a rage, shout,
gnash their teeth and completely lose
control of theinemotions.

It may be the single most provoca-
tive issue among a sizable number of
Ipe0ple.

I’m talking about dogs. More specifi-
cally, about that which dogs do on side-
walks, lawns, in parks, on jogging
places and wherever else the owners of
dogs permit them to do what they do in
such places.

I tried to explain that to Mrs. Janet
Saltess when, filled with indignation
and looking for sympathy, she called
me about her experience. .

I tried to tell her that I’d be glad to
deal with tame subjects such as reli~
gion and politics, but I’d rather not get
involved in dogs and their personal
habits.

But she insisted that the world
should hear about what happened to
her. So here goes:

Mrs. Saltess, a hospital employee,
has an old collie named Jinnie. The
other day, she took Jinnie for a walk
near Hamiin Park.

She says they didn’t go in the park
because she didn’t have the dog on a
leash and she knows it is illegal to have
an unleashed dog in the park.

Instead, she walked it in the grassy
area bordering the park, between the
sidewalk and the street.

As she and the old dog walked along,
a paddy wagon pulled up alongside her,
a c0p leaned out the window, and said:

“Is that your dog?”-

“Yes it is,” said Mrs. Saltess, as she
kept on walking.

The policeman got out of the paddy
wagon and said: “I’m talking to you.”

“What do you want?”

“You’re under arrest.”

“You’ve got to be kidding. What am I
under arrest for?”

r l

“Your dog just urinated in the
grass.”

Mrs. Saltess said she was sure the
cop was kidding around, so she laughed
and again said: “You’ve got to be kid-
ding.” -

“No, I’m not kidding,” said the cop.
“You’re under arrest.”

Mrs. Saltess says: “I told him that he
had no reason to arrest me. After all,
my dog hadn’t done do-do. And we
weren’t in the park.”

She said he told her that it didn’t
matter, that the grass was part of the
park and she should not have allowed
her dog to urinate on it.

“Well, I got mad and I told him that '

he should come and look around my

gangway where some of the creeps ‘

who have moved into this neighborhood
come and urinate and throw their con-
traceptives. If he wanted to arrest any-
one, he should arrest them.

“But he just told me that if I wasn’t
careful, he would put me and my dog
in the back of the paddy wagon and

,4/5/4/ ﬂﬁ/E/i/VS

i Should dogs wear diapers in the city?

take us in. I said: ‘You mean you’d
arrest my dog, too?’

“He said: ‘Sure, your dog urinated, ,

didn’t he?’

“Then he said he had to call his ser-
geant on the radio, so I stood around
there like a dope waiting for his ser-
geant to arrive.

“When the sergeant came, they
wrote me out a ticket. Can you imag-
ine? I got a ticket because my dog
urinated on the grass.

“I asked him what I was supposed to
do with the ticket. He said that I would
have to appear in court on the date he
put down and answer to a judge. I
asked him what I had to answer for. He
said because of what my dog did.

“I. didn’t believe this was possible, so
I went to see my alderman, Terry
Gabinski, and I showed him the ticket.

“He read it and he laughed like he
thought it was the funniest thing he
ever saw.

“Then he called in some guy he said
was a judge, who was sitting around

M055 WdﬁVV/l/ﬂ

mac-ax

his office, and showed it to the judge.
The judge laughed, too. But he said,
that I’d have to go to court.

“Have you ever heard of anything
like that? Do you think it’s right?”

That’s a question I won’t answer
because no matter what I say, 'some-
body will be furious. I’ve learned that
from past experience with this subject.

If I say the police should ticket peo-
ple like Mrs. Saltess for letting their
dogs do whatever they wish in the pub-
lic way, then dog lovers will get angry
at me. "

They’ll point out that’dogs are of
great value to men, frightening off bur-
glars, chasing mice, and biting the
noisy children of neighbors.

But if I take the opposite posrtion
and say it was silly of the police to give
Mrs. Saltess a ticket because her old
dog did what old dogs always do in
grass, then someone will angrily
respond that a ticket wasn’t enough:
the police should have hit her and her
old dog on the head with their billy-

It’s a hot issue

clubs.

There are people who feel that way
They believe that what dogs do in
grass, on sidewalks, jogging paths or
anywhere else is a most terrible
affront to civilization.

Writer Studs Terkel, normally a man '
who loves all creatures great or small,
becomes almost homicidal at the
thought of picking his way through dog
deposits in his city neighborhood.

Over the years, various liberal
aldermen, most of whom own cats,.
have tried to impose laws that would
require dog owners to carry shovels or
put diapers on their pets.

So I’m not sure what to tell Mrs.
Saltess, except this:

When you get to court, point out to
the judge that your dog is 15 years old.
And by human standards, that would
be 105 years old.

Just say: “Judge, when you’re 105 \
years old, you’ll probably do it in the
grass, too.”

0190], Chicago Sun-Times

 

By NORMA MEYER

In his Western suit adorned with a turquoise-studded

copters in the desert and racing motorbikes with his

70ish wife.

Canine clairvoyant says he can tell what your pet’s thinking

“A vet from the San Fernando Valley brought me a
senile dog, didn’t remember anything,” he says disgust-

 

Copley News Service

08 ANGELES ——~ The mongrel is sniffing the
unfamiliar Persian rug, then chomping on an
all-important itch, the whole time keeping a
sixth sense on a Frisbee tucked under a cabi-

net in a cluttered trailer-home in suburban Gardena.
“So now the dog shows blue of intelligence, that shows
up. I saw red when you come in, ah, what is the problem
you have? You want to go away, now where do ya want

to go away.” says 76«year-old Fred Kimball, animal psy-‘

chic who has opened his unearthly doors to read this
stranger of a mutt’s aura.

“Now 1 have to wait and. see if I can find a picture of
where it wants to go, ah, if I don’t get a picture, I keep
asking questions, ah, do ya want to go visit someplace
ah, so where? And see, the dog didn’t go to school and
study geography, so how am I going to get a map out of
the dog‘s mind? All right, now let’s see if the dog is
counting in human time or animal time. ...”

This Dr. Doolitttle reincarnate has made a living and a.

reputation in the. psychic community for his readings of
ducks, gophers, birds, earthworms, spiders and humans,
“dead or alive.” For $25, he offers telepathic insights.

clasp and string necktie, Kimball looks more like an old
ranch handthan someone who will soon be picking up
doggie vibes and feline fantasies — all by imagining he is
the eyes of the subject, the entire time likening himself to
a “Western Union messenger.”

Whether his readings are right or wrong seems irrele-
vant once he starts Spinning tales of his patchwork life,
saying he never finished grammar school, but boasting 36
occupations in his lifetime.

He’ll tell you about working in the cotton mills at age
14, being a “big wheel” in the Marines because he could
“see snakes” in the Panamanian jungles, and basking in
the glory of being an armed forces champion swimmer in
the late 19205.

A cauliflower ear and crooked elbows attest to his
22-year wrestling career, and when he’s done with those
stories, he’ll talk about picking oranges during the
Depression, panning gold in Colorado and traveling in
carnivals as a ventriloquist.

There are masseur and rifle instructor licenses
attached with brown electrical tape to the plywood
trailer walls.

And this author of a book on extrasensory perception
also has photos of his latest pastimes - flying gyro-

That glaze in his powder blues and those lapses into the
netherworld make you wonder if Kimball knows or cares
that it’s impossible for a listener to keep up with his
celestial soliloquies.

~

One moment he's talking about riding camels in Egypt,
then he’s saying he once may have been a camel, then
he’s describing how a camel shows love -— “it dumps
green slime all over you, ya know, this green slime
all over you.”

He’s going through a heap of scrapbooks, the caretak:
ers of numerous articles and interviews, all neatly pres-
erved ~ a contrast to the surrounding chaos, the over-
flow of papers, wall hangings of decoupage butterfly
wings, and bottles of vitamins. '

Here's the time he was on the Art Linkletter show.

“He had a whole lot of chickens, turned them loose on
the audience and said, ‘Read that chicken.’ I did. Dean
Martin was on the show. Told me I was a phony. I felt
like breaking his arms.” *

He sternly cautions that animals must be at least 3
years old to have a memory and be read but no older
than 9.

edly.

“'this is when I went to Texas,” he says, thumbing
through the scrapbook of treasures. “Lots of millionaires
there ...people wanted me to read their Arabian horses.
Here’s Cairo there were fuzzy-wuzzys over there, ya
know, sticks coming out of their hair.”

There’s the thankful note from a woman whose cat had
been diagnosed by a vet as having cancer.-

“Cat had swallowed two pieces of cork,” Kimball says.

In 1943, Kimball, then a merchant marine, was on a
ship in Seattle when he first heard a clairvoyant voice. It
said, “Go punch that kid in the face.” '

, “Some persons call it a nervous breakdown. I call it
nuts,” he said describing that experience.

' Psychics at a research institute convinced him he had
the supernatural calling. He traveled, to Africa, India,
Egypt. and Australia to study.

He talked to his first animal in 1944 at the Central
Park Zoo in New York City.

“'1 saw this tiger lion pacing back and forth, real rest-
less. so I asked what’s on it’s mind. It said, ‘Sex.”’

So he asked a zoo keeper and sure enough, the tiger in
the adjoining cage was in heat.

 

 




Sunday, Airgun .23, l‘éi‘f:

‘1 he I mics-Picayune

 

Loss of pet can be

By JACK REED

NEW YORK (UPI) — Veterinari-
ans and clinical psychologists are
studyi'ng."’a new phenomenon these

days —» man’s inability to ratio-

nalize the loss of a pet.

The phenomenon is supported by
a limited number of clinical studies
which conclude that pet loss can be
devastating to the owner, especially
among, senior citizens whose pets
often assume a critically supportive
role.

A social epidemiologist with
Michigan’s Department of Public
Health, John Thrush, told a seminar
here the results of one study demon-

strate “the loss of significant
attachment (among senior citizens)
can be life-threatening.”

Thrush was among more than 100
veterinarians, psychologists and
social workers attending the three-
day pet loss and human emotion
seminar sponsored by Columbia
University, the Foundation of Than-

atology and New York’s Animal

Medical Center.

The foundation studies and
reports to health professionals and
the public the hazards inherent in
the trauma of death and dying.

“There are a variety of studies
that indicate there is a relationship

between death and loss and
depression as well, as physiological
symptoms including nausea,
anorexia and severe headaches,”
Thrush said. “The individual’s abil-
ity to cope with day-to-day life may
be Severely limited.”

The study conducted among 209
veterinarians in counties of Florida
and Arizona, where the ratio of peo-
ple 65 years of age and older is
highest, found that nearly 75 per»
cent of the veterinarians thought
death of a pet might result in illness
for its owner.

Seminar participants stressed
that it is not wrong to grieve the
loss of a pet.

“It’s okay to grieve for pets,” said
Herbert A. Nieberg, a New York
clinical psychologist and an expert
in grief. But acute bereavement,
which can prevent a person from
dealing with responsibility, con-
cerns the health professional, Nie-
berg said.

“Most guilt surrounding death is
unwarranted or unjustified. People
are devastated by pet loss,” he said.
About a third of his patients suffer
bereavement as a result of losing
their pet.

“In some people, for whom ani-
mals had been a substitute for
human relationships, bereavement

may be pathological in its intensity
or duration,” said Doris M. Levin-
son, a Yeshiva University psychol-
ogy professor. “Severe depression
and even suicide may result.”

In part, the seminar was designed
to help veterinarians determine at
what stage their services approach
the level of psychological counsel-
ing and when the grieving pet owner
should be treated by a psychologist.

Stuart Unger, a New York free-
lance writer, suffers from what one
philosopher at the seminar calls a
“legitimate nonpathologic phenom-
ena.”

Unger, whose English Bulldog
Cassius was the second to die in the

life-threatening to an elderly person

last two years -— the other was a
German shepherd -— seeks psycho-
logical counseling weekly, unable to
resolve the bereavement he has
endured since their deaths. He says
is has been “torn by guilt and
depression” and more than once has
contemplated suicide.

Twice he tried getting a puppy to
replace the two dogs he lost, but
returned them to their original own-
ers within a few days of taking
them home.

“I know all the intellectual argu-
ments but I feel like I should be suf-
fering” Unger said. “I know I should
not be going around wishing I were
dead.” .

Section 3, Page 3




NEW ORLEANS
T IMESP I CAYUNE

August 23, 1981

Space technology
aids vanishing,
lovable manatees

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) — The same tech—
nology that supports the voyages of America’s space
shuttle is providing protection for an endangered ‘
Species of aquatic mammal that habituates waters
of this area.

Only about a thousand of the gentle, lumbering
mammals called manatees are left in Florida’s '
rivers, inland channels and coastal waters, which
they help keep free of aquatic vegetation.

Commonly known as sea cows, the manatees look
something like walruses, swim like dolphins and eat
grasses. They were first spotted on one of his historic
voyages by Christopher Columbus, who described
them as “mermaids.”

Though protected by the Endangered Species Act
and other laws, the slow-moving manatees are often
killed or maimed by the whirling propellers of
power boats. Many of the manatees in these waters
carry pr0peller scars.

Two ships, UTC Liberty and UTC Freedom, ply
Florida’s waters to retrieve the shuttle’s jettisoned
solid rocket boosters and tow them back to Cape
Canaveral. Operated by United Technologies’ United
Space Boosters Inc. subsidiary, they are equipped
with special propulsion systems to maneuver close-
into the booster casings at sea and to protect manav
tees when the ships cruise through the mammals‘
habitat. _

The systems have no external propellers. ’i‘hrust~
ers in the bow and stern prOpel and steer each ship
through manatee territory by means of a jet of
water that shoots out the bottom along the under-
side. They’re mainly used for precise back-and-forth
or broadside-on movements.

They have been installed on vessels around the
world for tasks that call for maneuvering at close
quarters or Operating on special proiects such as
diving, drilling, or laying cable. The diesel-powered
thrusters on the Liberty and Freedom can produce
425 horsepower and permit a sustained speed of 4.5
knots.

Manatees grow to a length of 15 feet and a weight
of 1,500 pounds. They live singly or in family groups,
often communicating muzzleto—muzzle because of
poor sight and hearing. Scientists say they are affec-
tionate and playful and have been seen to kiss and
swim about with linked flippers.

They are said to be solicitous parents. with bulls
and cows taking turns caring for the young. Observ-
ers speculate they may have looked like mermaids
to Columbus because of the very human way the
female holds a nursing calf to her breast. In fact. ‘i
“manatee” comes from a Spanish word meaning ’
breast. “

The timid creatures once flourished throughout
U.S. tropical waters but have been hunted nearly to
extinction for their beef-like meat, fat that makes
good cooking oil. and tough hides.

One problem for the survival of the species is that
reproduction is slow -- females have a 13—month
gestation period and give birth to only a single
calf. Related to dugongs of Africa and the Pacific,
the animal is known to science as Trichestus man-
atus. It belongs to the order of animals called
Sirenia, from the Greek word meaning “beauti-
ful maidens.”

 

 

 




 

WESTERN REPORT

 

PEOPLE, PLACES & ISSUES

 

 

Glacier policy is bad news for black bears.

Getting Tough with Bears

Courtesy National Park Service

 

{#5

 

 

f, .
i i ; 1‘ M a“. 54%

 

A grizzly ready for relocatzon; “prob/em ” black bears aren

lucky.

 

LACIER NATIONAL Park, the site of

three fatal grizzly maulings in the sum-
mer of 1980, was the setting for three more
deadly encounters between bears and people
this summer. This time, however, the
fatalities weren’t people but bears—black
bears. The shootings of these troublesome
though less dangerous cousins of the grizzly
by National Park Service employees signaled
a new and controversial approach to bear
management policy in the park.

The ﬁrst incident, according to Glacier’s
resource management specialist Clyde
Fauley, involved a black bear that had gotten
into the habit of “humming food from park
visitors along the road.” The bear, which had
been trapped and tagged once in 1979, was
shot and killed by park rangers. Less than a
week later, a young female black bear with
two cubs wandered into the Lake Kintla
campground in the northwe5tern section of
the park and went after some backpacks sus-

pended from a pole. This bear had never
been tagged and was not a known offender.
But park rangers closed the campground and
baited the pole with food. When the sow
returned the next night she was shot and
killed. Two weeks later an untagged "adult
male black bear that had sent a ranger up a
tree- at Oley Lake was also dispatched.

In previous years all of these bears might
have been tranquilized and transplanted to
another part of the park. But as a result of
last year's maulings, the park has established
a stricter bear management policy, one which
mandates that any bear displaying aggression
toward humans or familiarity with human
food must be removed from the park. The
type of “removal,” however, varies from one
species to another. It seems that efforts will
be made to relocate grizzlies, but black bears
may not get a second chance—most likely
they will be destroyed.

“We have more or less the same policy for

black bears and grizzlies right now, except
the grizzly is a threatened species,” explains
Clyde Fauley. “So we’re trying to relocate the
grizzlies, but nobody is interested in re-
locating black bears. In past years we’ve
relocated them six or seven times. We don’t
have-a place to take black bears in the park
once they become too familiar with humans.
The new plan probably will result in more
black bear killings.” -

Wildlife specialisrs at Glacier estimate that
there are 200 grizzly bears and 500 black
bears in the one-million-acre park. Grizzlies
have been responsible for all six fatal maul-
ings in Glacier’s 71-year history, but long
before the species was declared threatened in
1975, park managers were seeking ways of
keeping grizzlies safe from people as well as
people safe from grizzlies. At present the
park has three options for grizzlies that are
no longer welcome in Glacier: it can transfer
a problem bear to the most appropriate and
willing national forest; ship it to British Co-
lumbia, which will accept any grizzly the
United States rejects; or, as a last resort,
destroy the beat.

According to Glacier National Park super-
intendent Bob Haraden, black bears actually
cause more injuries and more property
damage than grizzlies. Perhaps because they
are nor a rare species and their more frequent
contact with humans has earned them a rep-
utation as a nuisance, black bears don’t com-
mand nearly the level of respect accorded
grizzlies by park employees. “It’s only a waste
of effort to relocate the blacks because they
keep coming back,” says Fauley.

But according to Chuck jonkel, director of
the Border Grizzly Project at the University
of -Montana in Missoula, there is little
likelihood that a bear moved 100 miles from
an area will return. Transporting an animal
that distance would mean moving it out of
the park and into a forest, but neither the
park nor the Montana forests have shown
much interest in relocating black bears.
“There’s no reason for Kootenai National
Forest to take black bears because we already
have enough, and a lot are already being
hunted anyway,” said an information ofﬁcer
there.

Frank Craighead, jr., a renowned bear ex-
pert who conduCted grizzly bear research in
Yellowstone National Park for ten years and

 

28

A , - r
. WO/x /yg/ ROCKY MOUNTAIN MAGAZINE

 




wrote TTJC/é of #96 Gn'zz/y, offers a more
blunt explanation for the new policy. “I
think the Park Service wants to get rid of
black bears. It’s true that black bears cause
problems, but the Park Service ought to work
out a management plan whereby people can
see the bears—as they did in the past."
Although Craighead agrees with other re-
searchers that bear relocation has nOt always
worked well and that frequent transferrals
would be cosdy, he nevertheless suggests
moving black bears as far as possible into a
forest area to alleviate the problem.

In the past, he says, “bears were often
relocated in areas where hunters could get
them. Areas of release have to be picked
carefully. Bears should be put in an area
where there are denning sites, food, daytime
shelter, and other bears, too. Carcasses
should be put out in the new area so the bear
is more likely to stay there.” One reason the
Park Service is not interested in relocating
black bears and would rather be rid of them,
Craighead speculates, is the possibility that
park visitors who have been mauled may take
legal action against the park. As a remedy, he
suggests, private insurance could be offered
against bear attacks: “This would eliminate
most claims againsr the park and probably
would help to limit people in certain areas."

Discouraging visitors has rarely been a
popular option with the Park Service.
According to Fauley, Glacier will close a
campground temporarily if there is “bear ac-
tivity” there, but it does not as a rule limit
the number of visitors in heavily bear-
populated backcountry areas. Even after the
fatal maulings in 1980, no attempt was made
to reduce the total number of people in the
park. The new bear policy is perhaps a con-
cession to the fact that most visitors are un-
willing to accept the risks of a genuine
wilderness encounter with a bear. And the
government’s concern over legal liability for
such encounters has found expression in in-
creased bear removal rather than tougher
restrictions on park users. People who feed
bears face a mild $35 fine, if caught. In-
evitably, more people will visit the park and
more will feed the black bears. Black bear
numbers will decline.

“Bears and people have been associated
with each orher since time immemorial." says
Craighead. “What do the people want? MOSI
want to see the bears. In the late fifties you
could see 60 different bears a day in Yellow-
stone. Now you might spend a week there
and not see a single one. There is no real
solution to keeping bears away from man
where both are congregating and bears are
hungry. But certainly they could figure out a
way to keep both bears and people in a
large area.”

—ELIZABETH KAUFMANN

 

 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN MAGAZINE

 




' lion Anselm dimes

WATT: Warm Greeting From Alaskans

Continued from 10th Page

other technological ventures that

may damage the delicate wildlife
areas in this mostly untouched
state. , A ' ~

'3 Although Watt talks about “a
balance” between protecting the
environment and plucking out “re-
sources for America,” his opponents
in Alaska are particularly upset
about an important bureaucratic
change in the Arctic National Wild-
life Reserve near the northern
shores of the state. This area, which
some geologists believe may be as
rich in oil as Prudhoe Bay, is now
bbing surveyed by the US. Geologi-
cal Survey, instead of the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife , Service, which pre-
vi‘ously had charge 0f the refuge.

'“ The switch to geologists over
wildlife managers appears to mean
that, at. least in that wildlife refuge,
all and gas interests may ultimately
take precedence over birds, caribou
and fish;

:2. Energy Versus Fish

’” The conflict between oil and fish

Becomes most intense and the most
political when it involves Bristol
Bay, a soUthwest area that is the
site of some of the richest fishing
operations in the world. It is also the
home territory for Alaska’s Repub-
lican governor, Jay S. Hammond, a
ﬂemingway-like politician who is
extremely unhappy about Watts’
proposal to lease 16 offshore oil ba-
sins around the state of Alaska.

“We realize the nation’s energy

7 needs,” Hammond told reporters af-

ter he had taken Watt on a dizzying
aerial tour of the sockeye salmon
fishing areas in Bristol Bay. “But we
also need to consider that this is a
$325-million fishing industry.”

Watt, asked later who would win
out between the oil companies and
the fishermen in Bristol Bay, said: “I
think the the governor can be ac-
commodated.” Then, he paused and
added, “And the reason is because
he supports the rest of my pro-
gram.” . . .

Waddle: Into River

If Watt’s week in Alaska was
filled with the politics of oil versus
fish and environmentalists versus
developers, it was also supposed to

. be a chance for Watt to savor the

outdoors in a way that might endear
him to outdoor lovers, for a change.

In keeping with Watt’s push to
the outdoors, he was taken to
Brooks Lodge in Katmai National
Park to take advantage of one of the
best rainbow trout streams in Alas-
ka.

On a rainy morning, Park Service
personnel lent him a set of rubber
waders that extended to the arm-
pits, and Watt waddled into the riv-
er .for what government officials
call “biological stream sampling”
and ordinary anglers refer to as
fishing.

 

But, clearly, this sport did not suit
him. After four hours of awkwardly
waving his fly rod overhead and.
losing hooks to tough old salmon
coming upstream to spawn, Watt
looked cold, hungry and frustrated.

Finally, he explained that, in his

- native Wyoming, he preferred “just

sticking a willow branch in the riv~
er with a worm on the end of it.”
“This fly fishing is a rich man’s
sport. In the past, there have been
interior secretaries who just came
up here and enjoyed themselves and
never got in as much controversy as
I have,” he said. “I could do that and
probably I should do that, but you
know what? I probably won’t.”

 




F

 

3 83-558”.
étssggs
€91" as
agi §ag§
,g s a
gas 3 gg
:3 £059)
5&3 gas;
igé siéi
gag Sgaa
a a 33%3
35% sass
3g?! sign-'32

y.

 

"passaadunun, Annealed

S m .,
Eigmsazsgso§§§aé
r§”§23§§9“§=§€s2
$55 §"as§E3§§i§s

m' o '13 ' "f
agggs stgrgagssg
ggsgé gsg§.:asss
303““ “%”§%§§SSB
gassiigéaagsiga
aggfg gaggagaags
. as, ga§m°waoi
-$§ség assaéssés

I punod-ooe em panods sq se Klsnoa

w~ss~> .
:“g earn“
gﬁsﬁagéﬁ 115’ a
§E>§oamri§gg
8%" gala; 9:
Bass “1" SE 0-!-
':‘ E>8H“"
groom" m2 (-1.
0&5 033.2 SC '
3“,. 950:1»;5‘
393g8&3d§w .
553353§3 5 93
agrees-53.8.5» 8,» H
:r 38<9mr t" E
m =3 .
8- S‘E'M’fro E __
:3 3m§%".§ - §<
9: as as
- smug?”

519919 Buscw.

 

amﬁhsﬂmmug

 

10 Part 1 /Monday, August 17,1931

WATT: warm Greeting by

. Continued from First Page

‘ as interior secretary, almost every
living thing seemed to be taking a
stand on his controversial six-
months in charge of the nation’s
public lands.

There were pro-Watt posters at
almost every stop—including some
that were shipped from one city to
the next by the Anchorage Cham-
ber of Commerce. One placard,
which said, “Welcome Watt——
The Real People," was pointedly
perched in the claw of a bulldozer.

Young environmentalists in work
shirts also were out in sizable herds
at each public appearance. At one
stop they chanted, “Oh, no, Watt
must go, don’t sell us to Texaco,"
and, in Juneau Sunday, those
protesting his pro-development
view of the wilderness revved up 21
chain saws for a mock salute to the
interior secretary.

Bureaucratic Hero

Still, in contrast to the increasing
chill in the lower 48 states, Alaska
was a warm political climate for
Watt. In communities of “boomers,"

, who want more roads and more mo-
; vie houses and more oil rigs and
generally more money, Watt is a
-,‘ bureaucratic hero.
' Moreover, this state of strong in-
’. dividualists is mostly conservative
. Republican. Thus, after months of
indoor combat on Capitol Hill, Watt
| exuberantly greeted Alaskans. most
of whom are more than happy to

m :3. .\

   

Associated Press

Demonstrators against Interior Secretary James G. Watt started up
chain saws during a march to the Capitol steps in Juneau, Alaska.

develop a state where only 1% of
the 375 million acres is private
property. -

_ “I have seen the heart of Alaska.
Watt‘exultantly told a full-house
Anchorage Chamber of Commerce
luncheon Monday. “It came from a
small group of people who greeted
me when I arrived and said, ‘Thank
you for what you are doing.’

“I didn't understand where they
were coming from until I looked

into their eyes," 'Watt continued.
“But, while their lips said, ‘Thank
you,’ their eyes said, ‘God bless
America.’ ”

After discarding a speech that
had been written for him about the
need for change from the Carter
Administration, Watt spoke in the
cadence of a preacher as he talked
around the state—promising that he
would “peel back" excessive regu-
lations and roadblocks for those

trying to develop the state’s re-
sources. ,

When a miner from Eagle asked
why two park rangers had told him
they were trying to phase out old
mining claims in the parks, Watt
snapped: “I’d like to have the names
of those two employees."

Although Watt is the man most
feared by environmentalists, the in~
terior secretary had intended to use
this trip to the nation’s largest ex-

. panse of parks, wildlife refuges and

scenic rivers to try to establish his
credentials as a “conservationist”—
the word he prefers to environmen-
talist. But, instead of befriending
those who want to preserve the de-
licate wildlife in this state, Watt
showed repeatedly that his brand of
politics is single-minded and his
methods of dealing with the opposi-
tion are still rough around the
edges.
Irritated by Remark

In Fairbanks, for example. about
100 protesters marched outside the
Travelers Inn, where Watt was
speaking to about 500 members of
the Chamber of Commerce. 0b-
viously irritated by the demonstra—
tion, Watt opened his remarks to
the friendly group by saying: “I
want to come back in the winter
when those folks won’t be out there;

they'll be home in Seattle being

taken care of by their mommas.”
The remark irritated the likes of
Mary Carey, a resident for 41 years

Development-Minded Alaskans ,-

in a state where most people barely
make it through one winter. “I'll be
standing here protesting in Feb-
ruary when he comes back, and he's
sitting in the Travelers Inn, toasty
warm," she said angrily.

In Anchorage, when Watt saw
two reporters interviewing Jack
Hessian, Alaska representative of
the Sierra Club, which is asking for
his resignation, the secretary
marched up to the table, sat down
and challenged Hession to a verbal
dueL

“I-read your article in the paper
today," Watt said, referring to an
editorial Hession had written
against Watt's public land policies,"
and (Deputy Undersecretary of In-
terior) Bill Horn says you're so far
off, you don't know what you're
talking about."

Hession nervously began to ex-
plain the problems his group has

. had with Watt's Alaska programs.

He said Watt was opening up the

wilderness too fast and without.

enough study of the environmental
impact. Watt’s staff had allowed oil
company helicopters into park
areas, Hession continued. A mining
company was allowed a “scientific"
permit to investigate in an area re-
served for wilderness, an unheard-
of event, Hession said. And, mostly,
Watt was meeting only with busi-
nessmen and not with environmen-
talists, Hession complained.
“Thank you very much, Jerry.”

. lies Annalee aimed”

Watt said. unable to mask his irrita-.. ‘

'tion or to get Hession's name right.

“We have met with you today. then.
haven‘t we?” The session ended as
the Sierra Club representative)
shook Watt’s hand and asked the
secretary to listen to his viewpoint
from timetotime. . ,7
“We are interested in hearing.
from you if you'll deal with us up
front," Watt concluded “If you’ll;
work with us, we'll be able to get,
things done." , . ..
What has particularly irritated ,.
Watt personally. his aides say. is“
that he gets no credit for the few
things he does for the environmen- g
talists—mainly his moves to protect,,
the whales. Last week, after touring.

the magnificent whaling grounds in,

Glacier Bay and spotting two;
humpback whales flipping their,
tails as they dived into the icy was“
ters, Watt signed an administrative,
decree limiting the number of boats

in the whale’s feeding grounds. . M

Whale Issue an Easy One . {3

Until a study can be completed to:
determine whether whales are:
bothered by boat motors. only about:
300 tour and commercial vessels
will be allowed in the bay.

. “I hope he gets credit for this; this
is a brave thing to do." said Roger;
Payne. the whale expert who recs;
orded “The Song of the Humpback;
Whale” several years ago. ~.-,;

However. environmentalists like)
to point out that the whale issue is:
an easy one. but it is much more dif~I
ficult to limit the development of oil:
wells, nickle and gold mines and

Please see WATT, Page 11f

 




Energy and Environment .

 

State Probes Killings of Sea Otters

An investigation has , been
launched into the shooting deaths of
five federally protected sea otters
off the San Luis Obispo county coast
during the last six months, state of -

ficials announced. Patrol Inspector ‘

Russell Goodrich, who heads the
state Department of Fish and
Game’s enforcement efforts, said a

record 111 sea otter carcasses have ,

been recovered on California
beaches this year, compared with 85
carcasses found in the same period
' last year. The animals died from a
variety of causes, including adverse
environmental conditions, the offi-
cials said. Two sea otters were kill-
ed by gunshots in 1980 and five
have been killed by bullets this
year. Sea otters are protected by the
Marine Mammal Act and federal
endangered species laws. Convic-
htion could result in a fine of up to
$20,000 and a year in jail.

Several endgangered red-cock-
aded woodpeckers have been relo-
cated on an island off the Georgia
coast after their homes in old pine
trees were marked for destruction.
State and federal biologists relocat-
ed the birds to St. Catherines Island
near Savannah last year after
learning that a new Army ﬁring
range at Fort Stewart would have
destroyed the trees the birds lived
in. A total of 12 birds were moved,
- but four of them were killed by pre-

dators. The others quickly adapted
to their new home and are thriving,
said William Guthrie, a state De-
partment of Natural Resources bio-
logist.

A consumer group has asked the
federal g0vernment to lower limits
on worker exposure to ethylene ox-
ide gas, asserting that the sterilizing
agent may cause cancer. The Public
Citizen’s Health Research Group
made the appeal in a petition to the
Occupational Safety and Health
Administration. The group asserted
that workers are inhaling the gas at
levels higher than those associated
with 'cancer and chromosome dam—
age in some human tests. It called
on OSHA to lower limits from 50

parts per million to one part per

million over an eight-hour work—
day. The petition said more than
100,000 workers are exposed to the
gas daily.

Seeds from 15,000 bushes, trees
and Weeds are being tested for their

, effectiveness in combating cancer

and crop pests, the US. Department
of Agriculture announced. A boom
in the interest of “natural” sources
of new medicines prompted re-
searchers to sift through seeds that

4 had been kept in storage in Peoria,
' 111. Of the seeds tested, researchers

have found a dozen that inhibit can-
cer or may be useful as pest control
chemicals. ~

ka%w x/W P//7/9/ ;

 




 

Energy and Environment

 

Anti-Whaling Ship in Soviet Waters

A Canadian conservation ship
crossed into Soviet waters to try to
disrupt a Soviet whaling operation,
a spokeswoman for the Sea Shep-
herd Conservation Society said in
Los Angeles. The vessel, which left

Vancouver two weeks ago, carried -

Capt. Paul .Watson of VancoUver

and 28 volunteer crew members ,

1 from the United States, Canada,
.' Britain, West Germany and Austra—
'. lia. It will stay in the Bering Sea as
long as possible “to confound the
Russian efforts,” spokeswoman J a-
j . net Bridgers said. -_

Rain and snow whose acidity was
almost as strong as raw vinegar,
have been detected in some high
Colorado mountain lakes, according
"to scientists. Dr. John Harte, a bio-
' logistwith the Rocky Mountain Bi-
’ ological Laboratory, said measure-
ments taken over the last year near
. Crested Butte show a very high
" level of acid in small lakes and
streams in the Elk Mountains. Peter
Broussard, director of the laborato-
ry, called acid precipitation the
“most insidious ecological threat
that this region faces." Speaking in
Aspen, Colo., Harte said. “We have
only a foggy idea about the source
of the problem, but we know acid

LOS ANGELES TIMES
August 10, 1981

rain and snow are falling on the

Rockies.” . .

Western equine encephalitis or
sleeping sickness—which can infect
humans—has been discovered in

‘ birds and horses in three counties of

Colorado, state health officials re-
ported. Birds and rodents carry the
virus, which is passed to humans
and horses by mosquitoes. People
who contract the disease can suffer
fever, headaches, vomiting, a stiff
neck anda change in mental state
ordrowsiness. Severe cases can re-
sult in coma or death. Colorado
health officials have increased mos—
quito control measures in the three
affected counties. Controlling mos-
quito population is the only method
of preventing human infection as
there is no known cure or immuni-
zation for the disease. ‘

*7

 

"I“??? 1 ITS”; ""1" '

. x. V r 4,. .
C-t,’ .
. — . "1'
'l‘ ‘V

.t‘!’

' 33.‘

3

319 9198
‘oipequ pueqan .191; 0) paimn oqm ' .

"ism-18 9m 1191 V f

- ,. tsu'onmomam-m .,
. 42 puem awaimtn as 9.2xselv..iag .'

. Jemen paiaisisai
‘uoswm Jams 391mm UBISSHH ‘

, e ‘KupaAaz am 10 143.1998 u; SJa'ieM ..
. 'ueissnn Sumatra 90pm J2me 1:213

.. Siaqutaui M91993 am 30 in

Blue Annalee Grates

dds are Kain ‘

. are [memes pue 'IassaA [BARN 191A -.
' ‘OS 9 liq 110 “GAE-ID 09°C! PW II PIN ' '
“ 3; 993.1qu Ads uo paisaim aq mm

rdatts 883 am email: me: uoswm
sualmen 911'; JO 81!!“ am -‘s.Iaiem

med adeo 'sKn N ue A u; pies unaided

diqs aqi pmoqe asoqi tam Sutumm
iainos 9 Jane ass suing am at
suneqm qino oi‘aBeKon e no 131M311
e 159] aAeq mailman! Men mam

UBISSDH u; papueuai

' " 18.53191.

me in uounnoo am euaioeq to suiens

p3 ,. é / , e?
S? M LL.
3:47261146 5'07
m Sump? ‘pms man/{Baez tutor
.gaseasip ,seneuotﬁaq sasneo pum
auo Aluo ‘pue enauoiﬁaq Jo spum

9

S?"//, .P/

.Anti—Whaling Ship to

Return to Soviet Waters

By STUART WOLPERT, Times Staff Writer

.. A group of protesting environ-

‘mentalists that was chased out of
the Bering Sea by a Soviet gunboat

and flare-dropping helicopters

:vowed to return soon to stop the

:r‘killing of the migrating California
egray whales, a spokesman said

Monday.

Roughly a dozen helicopter gun-
ships pursued the aging, unarmed
,Sea Shepherd 11 after its captain,

gPaul Watson, and two other crew
‘members piloted a rubber raft with-
in 10 feet of the Soviet shoreline
gjwhere they reportedly photo-

graphed StaCks of gray whale meat,
according to Michael Ballin, who

”spoke with crew members from Los
‘Angeles.

'~ Watson and other members of his
Sea Shepherd organization suspect

' the whale meat is being used in vio-
. lation of an International Whaling

Commission mandate, but they ad-
mit they cannot prove it.
Watson, who is dedicated to pre-

venting the slaughter of sea mam-
mals, took his vessel to St. Law-
rence Island, where an unrelated
injury to the ship’s chief engineer is
delaying its return to Soviet waters,
Sea Shepherd spokeswoman Janet
Bridgers said. -

Crew members on the 180-foot
trawler include 15 Americans. Thir-
teen others are from Britain, West
Germany, Australia and Canada.
Bridges said.

The State Department had no im-
mediate comment on the incident, a
spokesman said.

Watson and his supporters came
in the public eye as whale vigilantes
in 1979, when they rammed the first
Sea Shepherd into a Portuguese
whaling ship, crippling it until other
whaling opponents came along to
destroy it completely.

The Sea Shepherd II has enough
fuel to travel for another two weeks

before returning to the west,

Bridges said.

 

, mtg

 

rummage 1g mm A.

smiaaioid elem go asqu siapios

 




l J ,1 . and expects to be studying

1 a year.

b Site to another in deer By
2 ' "straneplantmg 'a little bit of the
‘4: -.surface of the bone underly-

' mg the antler to anOther site

, ISanJoSe, California has ' “
’ succeeded m matting "-
deer-antler cells into miss,

‘ :- fully horned rodents in about
‘Antlers fell otf every year

» g. and regrow very rapidly
" . Prehn says ”T'There s reason

 

“ ' its think that tissueitkethatts

Mrvjm,”

“ '\. (t. 7..

iaboratory mouse With antledik We: between

“32‘. 2:-" L'i‘ii‘M

"f1-
.-. 1-1,;
"_ .m'.»

' V .. telatweiy resmtam to cancer “
. formation "Prehn wants to
s . fiearn why antlers Can grow
‘ - so taSt yet remain orga-
" nized, while rapidlytorming

iszcancer cells grow wildly.
. ‘ Deer. howeVBt’, would be
Aoo costly and inconvenient
to . tostudy. So Prehn is trying to
r develop mice with antlers.
p “it's been found that you can
5ttansplantantlers from one
OW

:3} 1 . , an the ﬂeet aﬁﬁers "fOfm
f {searchers Richmond Prehn {g '
. scientific director at the insti-

U -}'tutetorMedrcal Researoh inf
them amp rodents

you put it? he says.

:He has teen samples of this

tissue and transplanted

So far his tissue trans-

jplants have developed into
- .~.small butnps similar to the

bases of, deer antlers But

2 ‘ because of the hugs differs '

. gdser "there 5 still some fid-
_ dlrng that" have to be

j' ' ~Heward Smallomtz

{wears

 

 

 

 

 

 




P

L Meagm 7+”
)Uprooted owner upset at new plans 1
éfor property slated for Tellico project

United Press International

¢i

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. - Almost two
( years ago, federal marshals forced
.. Nellie McCall, 77, out of her home
~ and she stood by in tears while a
7. bulldozer leveled it and workmen
, burned the remains to make room for
;,the Tennessee Valley Authority’s
~- Tellico Lake.

But as it turned out, only one acre
of Mrs. McCall’s 90-acre farm was
used for the reservoir. Now the huge
;. government utility plans to give the
three-county devel-

anx:"‘nu-

, land away -— to a
if 0pment agency.

“They’ll build vacation houses

Z'there,” Mrs. McCall, who now lives ‘

2”: with her daughters in Maryville, said
”Wednesday. “They (TVA) just lied.
y This is a way they can wash their
hands of the whole affair.”

._ Mrs. McCall and the family of Jean
Ritchey, 60, were among several
ilandowners .whose preperty was
claimed by the TVA because, they
said, it was needed for the vast
Tellico Dam project. The lake

covered only a few acres of all that
land.

TVA presently owns 22,000 acres
around the East Tennessee reservoir.
A large portion of the land belonged
to 100 landowners and was taken

through TVA’s condemnation powers.

The seven-state utility paid more
than $25 million for the land around
the lake so it could control and regu-
late the area’s development. Real es-
tate developers say as lakefront
property, it could be worth twice that

now. - .

The Ritchey family was forced off
a 119-acre farm in November 1979,
about a month before the floodgates
were closed and the 16,000.3cre lake
created.

“What TVA, Howard Baker and the
Congress took from us with eminent
domain, they are going to give
away,” said Mrs. Ritchey, who works
alongside her husband in the field in
the family farm at Sweetwater.

“They took our land under false
pretense. They said they wanted to
control the development. At Tellico,

our government stabbed a certain
sector of its peeple in the back,” Mrs.

'Ritchey said.

TVA Director David Freeman said
this week he believes the land around
the Tellico Lake should be “returned
to the people” so it could be put on
local tax rolls.

“By turning the land over to the
local peOple under agreed-to land
uses, they would then use their own
initiative to bring in industry, im-
prove the residential sector, and the
benefits of the land could be de-
velOped,” Freeman said.

Bob Stivers, a Knoxville attorney

who worked to st0p the Tellico

project disagreed.

“It’s a way for TVA to get the
albatross off their backs -— plain and
sirnply,” Stivers said.

Mrs. Ritchey called the entire
Tellico Dam controversy “a sad chap-
ter in American history" and said the
latest proposal by the Tennessee Val-
ley Authority is “just more of the
same.”

 

COpy to Honorable Sam Nunn Ma ' - -
Whitehurst, Alan Cranston .’. ck Mattingly, Elliott B. Lev1tas, G. William

Boy when I remember all the fus °
, 5 about this pork-barrel ro'
people wanted to save the Snail Darter, and then to read Someihtinlgeclziﬁze

this is enough to make a decent person spit up.

But I guess the truth

W111 always come out sometime, won't it, even thought it doesn't appear

to be helping this elderl
. . . y woman who had to see her home bulld
1t p0551b1e that nothing is being done about this situation toolzizclip this

Is

0? o
wamagig igﬁps it? one reason there is so much unrest and so much antagonism
ess y the concerned individual, not just the conservationist and

the environmentalist .

Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough

 

 

 

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

August 30, 1981

Honorable Sam Nunn
Honorable Mack Mattingly
Honorable Elliott B. Levitas
Members of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Gentlemen :

It is my understanding that a "Reform" bill is threatening a decade
of environmental progress, a decade during which I wrote more than my
share of letters in protection of our natural resources and cur environ—
ment, as some of you well know. '

We do not need any changes in the Clear Air Act, Clear Water Act, Toxic
Substances Control Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act, and other
environmental laws, unless it is to STRENGI‘HEN them. Daily we read of
the pollution of still another river or stream, and the thousands of
dead and dying fish, to say nothing of the humans being made ill, and
sometimes dying. Why anyone should wish to weaken these Acts is more
than I can understand — certainly not for the dollar billl, I hope.

Cost should never under any circumstances, be considered Over the health
and well being of the American taxpayer and our environment. I continue
to be amazed that any human being would think otherwise.

I am opposed to S. 1080 and H. R. 746, wh’ch I understand are anything but
"Reform" bills. It should be stated in the bill that Congress has no in-
tention of changing the Clean Air or Water Acts, OSHA, or other health,
safety and environmental laws. It should contain safeguards that health
and environmental regulations are not delayed, and it should be made
easier — not more difficult - for the public to get access to government
decision—making. After all, Congress is supposed to reflect the will of
the MAJORITY of the American taxpayers - not the vested interests.

If you gentlemen had the time to read the newspapers around the country,
as I do, because it is part of my job, you might better understand that
the people don't want dirty air, and polluted steams and rivers, and a
polluted environment because big business wants to make another buck.
Am enclosing a copy of just one editorial on this matter, which is from
the L.A. Times, and another write-up from Lewis Regenstein from the N.Y.
Times of Aug. 4.

Sincerely,
(Mrs . J. C. Yarbrough)

cc: G. William Whitehurst, Alan Cranston
P.S. I wrote you gentlanen re The Land and Water Conservation Fund on 3/10/81,

but never received a reply from any of you.

 




Lab said 'contominoted'

lay RUTH ELLIS

a..- *m n...__.. .m

........-

vl’f-‘dl‘j‘sjhi y ' .(..,P‘ otter 28. 1981

.. am“... ”-h‘» a.-. - .

- THE roar. Pugh-tierﬁta.

Montgomery Bureau Chief

GAITHERSBURG - Edward Taub,
who was charged last month with
numerous counts of animal cruelty in
connection with 17 research monkeys,
pleaded not guilty Tuesday in Shady
Grove District Court and waived his
righttoajury trial.

Taub‘s attorney, Edgar Brenner, told
Judge Stanley Kraven that his client
was one of the leading scientists in the
United States and he is noted for “his
gentle handling” of animals during re-
search projects.

The allegations, Brenner said, "are
based on “misunderstanding of treat-
ment” at Taub’s Silver Spring
laboratory, The Institute for Behavorial
, Research.

But Assistant State‘s Attorney Roger
Galvin painted a different picture for
the court. He said, “We are not
prosecuting these cases for the research
done on these animals, but for the condi-
tions at the facility,” between May 11
and Sept. 11 of this year.

Galvin said he would produce wit-
nesses over the next four or five days
who would show that the prim ates “suf-
fered unneccesary pain, that they had
no veterinary care and that the cages
and premises were unsanitary.”

Brenner contradicted the prosecutor,
stating that “Monkeys indeed are messy
animals,” but failure “to achieve per-
fection is no indication of animal cruel-
ty.” He insisted that the 17 monkeys re-
presented “a remarkably healthy col-

ony" used for the purpose of “reducing
human suffering."

Also charged with 17 counts of animal
cruelty, is Taub’s assistant, John Kunz,
who is being tried in conjunction with
Taub, the manager of the research
laboratory.

The first witness, 23—year-old Alex
Pacheco, told the court that while he
worked as a volunteer at the Brookville
Road laboratory, “Everything was pret-
ty dirty." He described piles of monkeys
feces growing mold in the cages, and
open wounds on several of the primates.

Pacheco, who alerted police to condi-
tions at the laboratory and set off a
nationwide outrage from animal in-
terest groups, testified that some of the
animals’ tails were denuded of hair and
were cracked -— “about to break off."

Approximately 75 spectators, many of
them representing animal interest
groups throughout the nation, listened

intently as Pacheco told of one primate
named Paul who collapsed in a corner of
his cage with a gash in his hand, expos-
ing three bones.

Depicted in more than 20 photographs
taken by Pacheco last summer at the
laboratory were bowls of rat poison in
corners of the facility, broken wires
penetrating the monkey’s cages, rotting
bandages and filth collecting on the 1m-
movable cages.

Pacheco said he called the condition of
the monkeys to the attention of Taub and
Kunz on numerous occasions, but noth-
ing was ever done to correct it. lie said
on one occasion a primate was in such
bad condition that he suggested to Kunz
they call a veterinarian, but his request
was ignored.

Pacheco said he bagan taking pictures
about June 1, and that he continued until
early September after discussing the
conditions of the laboratory with more
than 100 persons. At the conclusion of his
testimony, a brief color motion picture
was shown. In the film. one money was

seen biting and chewing at an open .

wound and the disrepair and uncleanli-
ness of the cages was reflected.

Cross examination of Pacheco by

Brenner was accomplished in less than
one hour. Attorneys for Taub did not at-
tempt to question Pacheco on any of the
aspects of “filth” that existed in the
laboratory.

At one point, attorney Williams Wood,
who is representing Kuntz, asked
Pacheco how much money had been col-
lected through the animal interest orga-
nization People For Ethical Treatment
of Animals (PETA). Pacheco said that
since the Taub case became highly
publicized nationwide, donations have
totaled approximately $10,000.

The second witness for the state, Dr.
Geva Teleki, who visited the laboratory
at Pacheco’s request in August when
Taub was on vacation, told the court
that “my first response (upon entering
the laboratory) was incredible stench, a
stench I have not smelled in any
laboratory I have ever been in.”

Teleki, 37-year-old associate lecturer
at George Washington University who
specializes in primate behavior told
Judge Kraven that “quite frankly, I
could not believe what I saw
surgical table littered, a sink encrusted
with some sort of chemical material, a
refrigerator encased in ice with a

monkey carcass on the first shelf,
inedicine out of date, rotten apples and
00d."

Teleki said his first thought on view-
ing the laboratory was “how could any-
body cope with an emergency in a place
like this.” He said the ventilating sys-
tem was a hand-cut hole in the wall lead-
ing into the hallway which provided the
same breathing system for personnel
and animals. He described a fan in the
colony room which did not appear to be
operating until he came within three in-
ches of it, and he held a piece of paper up
in front of the fan.

Admitted as an expert. witness in the
ﬁeld of_primate nutrition, Teleki was
questioned about the nutritional quality
of the food the moneys were receiving
under Taub’s care. He said he could de
scribe it with one word, “Con-
taminated.” He said he witnessed the
monkeys reaching through their wire
cage bottoms in an attempt to retrieve
monkey pellets that had fallen into the
fecal trays.

In addidtion, he said the monkeys be-
came “extremely excited” when offered
food, indicating they were “obviously
hungry.” He said they “pulled out the
contaminated food under the cages and
ate it with relish, another indication of
hunger.” ,

.Teleki said he described the overall
appearance of the colony room as “Run
down years ago and never repaired.” He
said the animals’ cages had rusted, and
in one instance a monkey was being
housed in a cage where the door had
been wired shut from the outside, an in-
stance he described as dangerous in the
event of an emergency. On his tour of
the laboratory, he said he observed no
cleaning materials and no drain in the
floor, which could have been used to
wash away water, and other con-
taminated material from the monkeys‘
cages.

After seven hours of testimony and a
presentation of 98 exhibits, those pre-
sent in the courtroom finally displayed
an emotional reaction to Teleki’s testi-
mony when he was asked by Taub’s at-
torney if he had had any experience with
monkeys that had undergone the type of
research perform ed at the laboratory.

“You don’t need to have experience
. . . in order to know when something’s
suffering,” said Teleki.

 




 

 

Clean Air:
Defending
A LaW.
In Peril

By Lewis Regenstein

WASHINGTON — The health of
more than 35 million Americans is now
in jeopardy because of dirty air. In
addition, it is estimated that 100,000 to
200,000 Americans may die quietly and
without publicity each year from air
pollution.

The Clean Air Act, now under strong
attack by industry, has prevented tens
of thousands of such deaths in recent
years and has saved the public tens of
billions of dollars annually by reduc-
ing damage to health, crops, buildings
and other property.

Unfortunately, these facts are being
largely ignored in the debate over
whether to renew the Clean Air Act,
which expires next month, and if it is
to be renewed, in what form. The pub-
lic is, for the most part, unaware of the
tremendous stakes involved in the ef-
forts by environmentalists to prevent

 

 

industry and_the Reagan Administra-
tion from crippling this law.

Many studies by Government agen-
cies and scientists clearly demon-
strate the association between pollu-
tants in the air and such adverse

health effects as premature death,
heart and lung disease, disability,
bronchitis, asthma and respiratory
disease. The May 1980 “Report to the
President” by the Federal inter-
agency. Tonc Substances Strategy
Committee says:

“Of all urban dwellers, one in five —
more than 35 million peOple -— are at
special risk from such illnesses as em-
physema and bron¢hitis as a result of
exposure to air pollution because of
age or health. In general, industrial-
ized, densely papulated metropolitan
areas have higher cancer mortality
rates than rural areas, especially for
hmgcancer.”

The presence of airborne pollutants,
specially toxic chemicals, helps con.
tribute to the deaths of many of the
more than 40,000 Americans who die of
cancer each year. This disease now
strikes one in four of us, which means
that of the Americans now alive, more
than 56 million will have cancer, many
from breathing polluted air.

A 1978 study by Profs. Robert Men-
delsohn of the University of Washing-
ton and Guy Orcutt of Yale University
put the number of adult white Ameri-

cans whose deaths are associated with
air pollution, especially sulfates, at
87,570 to 197,260 a year, or 5.4 to 12.3
percent of all deaths.

In February 1981, the results of the
Ohio River Basin Energy Study were
made public, showing that sulfates
and other air pollutants from just coal-
fired power plants might be factors in
the deaths of 8,000 peOple a year in the
Ohio Valley. It indicated that 163,000
people there could die of heart and
lung disease caused by pollution in the
next 25 years if current trends contin-
ued. Stricter controls could reduce the
figure by a third; weak enforcement
could increase the toll to 200,000. _

Moreover, cleaning up and prevent-
ing pollution saves much more money
that it costs. In April 1980, the Presi-
dent’s Council on Environmental
Quality issued a report by A. Myrick
Freeman 3d, an economics professor
at Bowdoin College in Maine, conclud-
ing that “national benefits which have
been realized from reductions in air
pollution since 1970 lie in the range
from roughly 85 billion to $51 billion
per year,” with the best estimate of
benefits in 1978 being $21.4 billion.
Such savings include reduced damage
to human health, crops, forests, vege-
tation, buildings and other property.

This “best estimate” for 1978 is
nearly 85 billion more than the costs of
complying with the Clean Air Act, and
over 82 billion more than all spending
on air pollution control that year, ac-
cording to the President’s Council. In
addition, Professor Freeman esti-
mates: “Between 2,780 and 27,800 lives
aresaved peryearas aresult ofair
pollution control. The most likely num-
ber is 13,900. ”

An earlier study by Lester Lave and
Eugene Seskin, prominent econo-
mists, concludes that controls on sta-
tionary pollution sources such as
power plants yield over $16 billion in
savingsinhealthcostsaloneatacost
of only 39.5 billion, producing a net
benefit of 86.5 billion. They estimate
that if all benefits from improved air
quality, such as increased earnings,
are included, the combined saving is
“some 823 billion a year or consider-
ably higher,” in addition to an in-
crease in life expectancy of almost one
year for the average person.

The EnVironmental Protection
Agency’s draft proposal to revise the
Clean Air Act amounts to “a blueprint
for the destruction of our clean air
laws,” said Representative Henry A.
Waxrnan, Democrat of California and
chairman of the Subcommittee on
Health and the Environment.

Such a move could damage the lives
and health of tens of millions of Ameri-
cans and unnecessarily cost us tens of
billions of dollars a year.

 

Lewis Regenstein is vice president of
The Fund for Animals, a private con-
servation and envi ronmental group.

(W 2"”7—8/

 




.4 Part 11/ Monday, August 3, 1981

3105 Angeles Clinics

W3

HARRISON GRAY OTIS, 182—1917
HARRY CHANDLER, 1917-1944

TOM JOHNSON
Publisher and Chief Executive Oﬁ‘ioer

WILLIAM F. THOMAS
Editor and Executive Vice President

 

NORMAN CHANDLER, 1944-1960
OTIS CHANDLER, IQSOIQU

JAMES D. BOSWELL, Vice Preszdent-Employee Relations

CHARLES C. CHASE, Vice President-Operations

ROBERT L. FLANNES, Vice President and Assistant to the Publisher
JAMES B. GRIDER, Vice Prwdent-Pmduction

ROBERT C. LOBDELL, Vice Prmident and General Counsel
DONALD S. MAXWELL, Vice Resident-Finance

VANCE L. STICKELL, Vice President-Salts

 

OTIS CHANDLER
Editor-inChitjC Times Mirror 1980

 

GEORGE J. COTLIAR, Managing Editor
ANTHONY DAY, Editor of the Editorial Pages
JEAN SHARLEY TAYLOR, Associate Editor

 

Clean Air:

President Reagan is having so much trouble
getting his clean—air act together that Congress

may go ahead without him. On balance, that prob- ..

ably is the best that Southern Californians could
hope for on these smoggy summer days.

'The Clean Air Act, which sets limits on emis-
‘ sions from industry and automobiles and standards
for the quality of air nationally, will expire this
year and must be extended or amended, or both.

Environmentalists have been lining up for
weeks, arguing to Senate and House committees
that the 1970 law is just fine the way it is, although
it may need some minor changes to cut away red
tape.

; Businessmen generally have argued before the
same committees that the law is too tough, that the
standards are too high and that meeting the act’s
requirements costs more than clean air is worth,
particularly at today's inflated prices.

‘ So far, the White House has not been heard
from. partly because it has been busy cutting taxes
and the budget and partly because there is a split
among the President’s advisers over how drasti-
cally the act should be rewritten.

' A draft Administration proposal that circulated
in Washington last month suggested, among other
things, that the act should be rewritten to allow
states to decide for themselves how clean their air
should be, without regard to national standards.

_ The rough draft also proposed softening the
sections of the law that limit automobile emissions,

and making fines for industrial violators optional

rather than mandatory.

The President’s advisers disagree over still an-
other proposal—one that would allow more pollu-
tion in areas Where the air already is cleaner than
. the law requires. Interior SecretaryJames G. Watt
is said to oppose that idea, particularly as it affects
the purity of air in and around national parks.

. But the most serious disagreement apparently is

N 0 Dirty Business

over whether to revise the pollution standards set
10 years ago on the basis of the effect of pollution
on human health.

Anne M. Gorsuch, administrator of the Environ -
mental Protection Agency, wants the standards
left intact, although she would have them re-
viewed in light of more recent medical evidence.
Other advisers Want the standards rewritten to
take into account the cost of achieving cleaner air.

Committee leaders in Congress will rightly
reject such heavy-handed proposals, arguing that
the United States is making progress but that the
air is still too dirty to relax the cleanup effort. Most
Americans seem to agree. A recent poll conducted
by Louis Harris showed that 86% of those inter-
viewed were opposed to relaxing the law.

Moderate businessmen also object to proposals
for drastic changes in the law. They are concerned
that, if the White House comes on too strong, Con -
gress will dig in its heels and refuse even modest
amendments to the act, some of which would make
the law easier to enforce without slowing down the
move to cleaner air.

Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.), chairman of
the House subcommittee on health and the en-
vironment, has finished his hearings and is waiting
to see what the White House does. He thinks the
act could be “fine-tuned,” but he would settle for a
simple extension of the law as it is.

Sen. Robert T. Stafford ( R-Vt.). chairman of the
Senate Committee on Environment and Public
Works, has directed his staff to spend the summer
Writing an extension of the Clean Air Act without
major amendments.

Given the choice, we think Congress should go
ahead without the Administration. A one- year
extension might provide the time that the White
House needs to realize that it is on the wrong side
of this issue and that a major shakeup of the Clean
Air Act is neither possible nor desirable.

 




THE SUN, Wednesday, October 28, 29‘s}
Taub called ‘pioneer’

 

Scientist, aide go on trial
on animal cruelty charges

 

By David Michael Ettlin
Sun Staff Correspondent

Rockville~Described by his chief lawyer as “a pio-
neer in his field" and “one of the leading scientists in the
United States," Dr Edward Taub and a laboratory assis-
tant went on trial here yesterday on charges of violating
the Maryland animal cruelty law.

Roger Galvin, an assistant state’s attorney for Mont-
gomery county, declared that Dr. Taub had violated the
cruelty statutes "on a variety of occasions" by inﬂicting
unnecessary pain on the monkeys, providing inadequate
food and unsanitary living conditions for them and pro-
viding no veterinary care in the period covered by the
charges, May to September of this year.

The 17 charges of cruelty against Dr. Taub and John
Kunz, his assistant, are believed to be the first ever in-
volving a laboratory that receives federal aid. The
charges resulted in suspension of a $115,000 National In-
stitutes of Health grant to the Silver Spring facility for
research which involves severing specific nerves at the
spine.

Under the grant, which the NIH says was intended for
research to help victims of neuromuscular disease and
trauma, Dr. Taub was trying to get the monkeys to re-
gain muscular control of useless limbs.

Edward Brenner, heading the three-lawyer defense
team for Dr. Taub, insisted that the research requires
“gentle handling of the animals” and that the institute
director is “noted for this approach.” _

“The allegations are based on a misunderstanding of
proper treatment,” Mr. Brenner said.

He also noted that “monkeys, indeed, are messy ani-
mals," and conditions perceived by the state as inade-
quate were “no more animal cruelty than the occasional

 

lapses of a parent with children can be considered cruelx

ty."

Mr. Brenner acknowldged to District Court Judge
Stanley Klavan that pictures he would see as state's evi-
dence “are not pleasant to look at," but said that injuries
to monkeys are an inevitable consequence of the re-
‘search.

“The monkeys are used to reduce human suffering,"
he said.

MoSt of the pictures—including a graphic via-minute
film featuring a monkey with an Open, bloody wound-
were taken in secret by Alexander F. Pacheco, a 23~

year-old animal cause activist who worked at the insti-
tute as a volunteer last summer.

In 5% hours on the witness stand, Mr. Pacheco, led by
the prosecutor. recalled his days and nights at the labo-
ratory and described conditions there—monkeys with
untreated wounds or rotting bandages exposing bitten-
off fingers, living in rusting, paint-peeling cages caked
with their fecal matter.

On cross-examination by Mr. Brenner and William T.
Wood, counsel for Mr. Kunz, Mr. Pacheco denied ever
being told to help clean the cages or feed the monkeys—
even two named Augustus and Haydn whom he had been
allowed to use for a pilot study devised by Dr. Taub.

But Mr. Pacheco, an enviromental studies major
skipping the current semester at George Washington
University, admitted soliciting donations for an organi.
zation he had founded-People for the Ethicial Treat-
ment of Animals (PETA)—to support what had become
“this project.” Some donations, he admitted on question-
ing. came from as far away as Hollywood, Calif.

Another witness, Dr. Geza Teleki, a primatologist ac-
cepted by the court as “an expert on the nutritional re-
quirements of nonhuman primates," told of his visit to
the institute with Mr. Pacheco August 27 and his shock
at conditions there.

He said it appeared that the monkeys received a
pr0per amount of food, but that much of it fell through
the cage floor before the surgically treated animals
could reach it and became contaminated in waste cans
below the cages where the monkeys reached for what
they could get. -

“I think it is an obvious health risk,” said Mr. Teleki,
a lecturer at George Washington University.

Describing physical conditions of the animals, Dr.
Teleki said "numerous monkeys had lost fingers or toes
-so many I lost count." None had fresh bandages except
for a monkey that appeared to have remnants of band-
age “encased” in its flesh.

When defense lawyers noted his lack of experience
with monkeys used in similar studies, Dr. Teleki de-
clared: “I don't think you have to have experience with
[similarl monkeys to know when something is suffering."

Animal lovers in the back rows of the crowded court-
room applauded Dr. Teleki loudly, prompting an admo-
nition from Judge Klavan against further outbursts.

The trial is expected to continue into next week with
a procession of expert witneses for both sides.

 




“Montgomery Journal, Wednesday. October 28. 1981

 

By Mike M. Ahlers
Journal Stall erter

With courtroom lights dimmed and
about 70 spectators jockeying for a
better view, Alex Pacheco, the 23-
year-old animal ‘crusader who engi-
neered the confiscation of 17 mon-
keys from a Silver Spring research
lab last month, narrated a movie he
made while volunteering at the tab.

.“This,” Pacheco said, “is Domi-
tion (a monkey). His arms and legs
have tape on them from an experi-
ment Sseveral days earlier).

“Th sis a picture of Billy (another
monkey) with his hand caught in a
wire wall. He’s jerking to free him-
self,” he said.

On a small makeshift screen, a
monkey thrust his wei ht about vio-
lently in a top corner 0 his cage, but
the cause of the commotion was not
apparent .

The five-minute screening, repeat-
ed twice at the Shady Grove District
Court in Rockville, highlighted the
opening yesterday of the now cele-
brated animal cruelty trial of Dr.
Edward Taub and his 26-year-old as-
sistant, John F. Kunz.

Taub, director of the institute for
Behavioral Research (IBR) on
Brookeville Rd, and Kunz have both
been charged with 17 counts of ani-
mal cruelty -— one count for each of
the 17 monkeys that inhabited their
lab. They face a possible $1000 fine

. and 90-day Jail sentence for each

s

count if convicted.

Prosecutor Roger Galvin opened
the trial by saying that the state was
not challenging the manner in which
experiments were conducted at the
lab, but was interested in conditions

at the lab not connected with Taub’s

,‘research.

Galvin’said the state will row
that the lab “did not have suf icleiit
quantities of wholesome food” for the

monkeys, that the air in the facility

,, was not conducive to their health,

that the ca es were not sufficiently
large, and t at unsanitary conditions
prevailed while Pacheco had access
to the lab— from May it to Sept. 11.
Defense attorney Edgar H. Bren-
ner said the reputation of “one of the
leading scientists in the United

States”? was on trial because an unk-
nowleggeable animal enthusiast had
a “misunderstanding of the best
method of treatment" for wounds on
the monkeys.

“Very few people understand the
unique methods of treatments”
necessary for these research mon-
keys; Brenner said. Medical evalua-
tions conducted after the Sept. 11
seizure of the monkeys was conduct-
ed ;by “apparently partisan
veterinarians," Brenner said, indi~
catiné; that the veterinarians were
biase toward the animal groups.

Prosecutor Galvin introduced into
eVidence more than five dozen color
photographs taken by Pacheco
throughout his four months at IBR.
in response to Galvin’s questions,
Pacheco individually described each
photograph.

Many of the photographs showed
cages encrusted with rotted food and
excrement, Pacheco said. And still
other photographs showed animals
With open and unbandaged wounds.

In photographs in which the mon-
keys were bandaged, Pacheco said,
the bandages were “rotted” or failed
to completely cover the wound.

Pacheco said he asked Taub sever~
al times if the injured monkeys
should be bandaged. “They’re doing
all right, was the response from Dr.
Taub,” Pacheco said.

Most of the testimony chronicled
the waxing and waning condition of
the monkeys as observed by Pache-<
co. Many of the details to come out
yesterday had been made public dur-
ing related court hearings in recent
weeks. ,

 

Onkeys Star in Courtroom Film

Pacheco, however, revealed a sys~
tem he used to see if the fecal trays
underneath the monkeys’ cages had
been cleaned regularly. He said he
would put a. “paper marker” in the
trays and see if they remained there
on subsequent visits.

“i found that most of the time they
hadn‘t been changed (after 24 hours)
and often after three or four days,"
Pacheco said.

Pacheco said that at first he did not
believe there was legal action he
could take against the lab, but he
changed his mind after talking to
County Councilman David Scull and
his wife. Scull, former head of the
county Humane Society, was the au-
thor of the ‘state’s animal cruelty
law.

Under cross examination by de-
fense attorneys, Pacheco denied hav-
ing any knowledge about the people
who temporarily kidnapped the mon-
keys al‘ter they were seized from the
laboratory.

He further said his intention in
volunteering at the lab was strictly to
get firsthand knowledge of laborato-
ry work and not to do an expose. .

“You’re trying to draw attention to
this cause. Aren’t you?” asked de-
fense attorney William Wood.

“I’m trying to draw attention t
animal’s abuse,” Pacheco said. '

Defense attorneys said the jud 1e
should not be unduly swayed by tie
photographs.

“Admittedly these are not pleasant
pictures to look at,” one attorney
said. “If you were to look at a medi-
cal textbook, you would see
unpleasant pictures -— unpleasant for
the layman to look at. But they are
not (examples) ofcruelty.”

Attorneys say the non-jury trial
may last as long as ten days and may
continue during the weekend. The
trial has attracted numerous mem-
bers of animal and scientific groups
and at least one terrier that was spot-
ted outside the courthouse sporting a
banner saying “I support Dr. Taub.”




 

Hoe Angelcs (times

 

Tuesday, October 27, 1981

flab Chief’sT rial on
Animal Cruelty May
effect U.S. Research

By BRAD STERTZ. Times Staff Writer

HOCKVILLE. Md.-—The head of a research laborato~

r; goes on trial here today charged with 15 counts of
rruelty to monkeys and other animals in a case that is
i ezng watched closely for its effect on government-
tnnded research using animals.
I The trial is primarily the result of undercover activi-
ties by Alex Pacheco, a student laboratory assistant who
infiltrated the Institute for Behavioral Research and la-
ter was aided by police in his investigation. ‘ .

Pacheco, a George Washington University studen
and member of a humane treatment organization. re-
ported that he found monkeys who had eaten their fin-
gers and dug holes in their chest because of pain from
pntreated Wounds. To support his charges he spirited 17
injured primates out of the laboratory.

)

: Research Under Scrutiny

9

" Since then the entire range of animal research has
.become the subject of federal scrutiny. And the House
Science and Technology Committee is looking into the
alieged mistreatment of animals used in research and
into the secrecy surrounding many such projects. '

i In addition, the National Institutes of Health has sus-
pended funds it was providing for the Rockville labora-
tory and has warned that similar action will be taken
against any other labs deemed to have mistreated ani-
mals.

: In the trial that opens here today, Dr. Edward Taub,
the chief scientist at the Institute for Behavioral Re-
search, is charged with 15 counts of cruelty to animals.
{Zach count carries a maximum penalty of 90 days in jail
and a $1,000 fine.

3 Pacheco. a member of People for Ethical Treatment
of Animals. took a job at the Institute for Behavioral Re-
search last May 2 to learn of the" treatment of animals in
tie-search laboratories.

2 While working there. Pacheco took photographs.
made notes and brought in primate experts after hours

12) examine the monkeys kept there. Then Pacheco went.

ti) the police,‘who helped him remove the 17 monkeys
from the lab late one night. -

; What researchers say is at stake in the case is the
freedom of science to work unencumbered by ,undue
government or public interference. Researchers con-
tend that if animal welfare officials are allowed to im-
pose restraints, research costs will soar and experimen-
tation will grind to a halt.

‘ ‘- What Happens in Labs

On the other hand. animal welfare spokesmen say

that a court decision favoring the research community
would further limit the public’s knoWledge of what hap-
pens to animals once they are caged behind laboratory
doors. ‘
i? f‘Clearl y. the future of animal experimentation is at an
iﬁrfeversible balance in this case and iii the face of con-
gremional hearings." Taub’s attorney. Edgar H. Bren-
{33:1 said. “It is also equally apparent that federally
fended animal research would become virtually impos-
sible if state law enforcement officials could seize ani-
rgals and Jeopardize research that conformed to federal
Standards.”

:Pacheco agreed with Brenner’s assessment of the
gravity of the case but disagreed about the possibility of
mercased inspections. “The public’s money is being
spent here. and the public has a right to know if that
rioney is being used for extralegal ends like mistreating
animals.” the said.

;:Il‘he crux of the labs defense is the contention that
the monkeys never felt any pain.

i L: ‘flf this court is going to have to decide whether or not
the monkeys felt any pain. then we feel good about our
chances of winning." Brenner. the defense attorney.
said. “The monkeys never felt anything because their
spinal cords were severed for experiments."

Dr. Taub said he did not understand why his lab was
chosen for the crackdown.

[“My lab was chosen at random and is really no differ-
ed: from anybody else’s," Taub said when the incident
came to light. “Why has this come about and why have

. ,Arioups that previously found no fault with me suddenly

cutoff my funding?"

 




... .. ,. . .... . . . , . .,. . .A , . -. ,-;r,~nr‘u~wni . t
-;~mm.;= - - - , . . ,. l '1.6::~”-7‘~'-‘~"3“v"£ stencils... -. the: .‘

R
'1

“duals determined to recover from :34}? -,. g
“I I stmkes 3W merges 0t cruelty 3° the man- Lifi’ZP'i; .
Further application to monkeys is a . j ;.-< . ,1, ..

neutering.»

 

 

 

storm-Oct pundit. theneedior
‘athislegislatimwhichwouldprovide
that so to so percent or ”federally

hmded risearch employ modern. nut-

~=,animalmethods lsdramaticallyﬂhm'
“,u-atadbytherecentraidbyMontgom-

eryCaunty (Maryland) police on the

7' ' Behavioral Biology Carter of the Insti-
tutetorBehavioral Researchat Silver ‘-

f ‘Spdnelmwsstorysept 13)

Brieﬂy, the research, funded by the

National Institutes of Health. con-
4:- sistedoldestroyingthenervesinmon- _
a keys’ armsandlegsandthenrestrain- ,.

tags. heirmrdamaged limbs to see if the

enforced restraint would, out of dire .
x necessity, causethe mmkeys to regain
someuseoftheirdamagedlimbs. '

The objective of helping human

stroke victims regain use of paralyzed
1 limbs might conceivably validate this
. research were it not for the fact that
*- thetechnique has been applied to.
strokevictims foreveraoyearsthatl '
. . knowol '.
. logicalamghthatldaresayrthas._

y and is simple and
been employed for canon-is by indi

waste of time and the my”:

.:money, to say nothing of the question- “
able morality of crippling healthy ‘
9;. monkeys, the unquestionable cruelty _
cl confining them in a stressful envi- ‘ ‘
moment and the unmitigated deprav- ~ .
‘ity of instructing attendants to ”tor-

a mentand frustrate" them .

.apoh
‘Augsm) that

 

The Times welcomes letters from

readers. Letters for publication must
include the writer’s name, address

and telephone number. Because of the .
large volume of mail received, we re- -‘
gret that we are unable to achnowl- '

lamremiMedoithereactimlast

,‘gyeuorsnennmmneus Cmtertor
* DiseaseControltotheincr-easeintoxlc

shock «symmetappearedtobe
related to the use at tampms. A;

esman (newsstmy
ports." Meanwhile, an estimated 40‘

everymonth

The research community’s stereo- 3"“

werc"loolringtora j
laboratoryanimalthatcanmetam-y

‘; armedbyltandneedn’tcrntimethe» \
Wallaboratory malty:
,wedtoDr Taubiorhiscandm. He:
mm mighttohtow mm?
;_-- there as the animals wet-chair; re-
_.mverl.statedonanABC-Wnewsre-
:portotSethlthatitwasimpmsible

*tobeprmentinthatrmwithout‘

,ieelmgthatonewasm ‘sunesortof

'millionwomenwereusmgtampms'hm

‘lhelssueotanimalrightsisa‘
' allhem”:

typed reaction to solve human prob-5‘ ,1 .
lems by recreating them in animals ;.. .

often serves primarily to support
graduate students through tax-funded

, researchgrantsthatcouldmoreeftec-
'tivelybeinvsstedinalternativermd- ~
em techniques, such as human cell ~
cultures, biochemiml analysis and [

epidemiological surveys.

WINIFRED Al‘l‘CHISON
Canaseraga,N. Y. ,Sept. 22,1381:

someknowledgeismerebygained—
Inattemxzting to detendtheBehav. ‘-

IntheEditor: '
ioral Biology Center at Silver Spring

-)

m 8an 30\ El

‘ "TheNewYorkTrmes

Company

mWeatlllidSL. NHY 1m36

 

Operating Groups

"l‘otbe Editor:

 

.ctans,andthepuolicrsstmlarg eiy

smarter-e of growing ombt among
.scxmtistsastothevalidity necessity
andmoralityolsomeiormsotexperi-

”mattation. ;

Butmanypeopledocareaboutani—i
mals, andeventually theywillwantto

‘ knowwhatpos‘sibleend is achieves by
creating conditions in which captive '

monkeys mutilate themselves and -- it

whetheritisworththeprlce
. hmtlamxs ;
Broomseptle 198i:

’ r v ' l ' P >-a“
A - Amt . . ‘l—ﬂs'Llh- ,.
T5. .7}.
x‘ ”1;, . \.. g.

. "‘ilx.‘

‘ w Expenments
Vital to Shake Victims

 

 

The Sept. 30 letter “When Animals
Must Suffer in Dubious Human Quests"
iswronginoneimmrtantarea. Theau-
thor, Winifred Aitchison, questions the

. significance to human stroke victims of
\‘Dr. Edward'l‘aub’s researchwlth mon-

keys at the Beheﬁorsl Biology Corner

71?"

 

a edge or to return unpublished letters.

To 713: rampant-Ts /

Heft? 5 Our C/lance 7” Illa/CE
756 N y ///l)6’S Czjati) (USA-Ml"
DI" OCiS/‘HKJ/Ca/N 5 /C’77c°/’ any /7/

PC 35.; /b/E (767 SI/HC 0/ )C“ H) \7/16’.
/))CD£((C6L /iD/"C’%:S 5(6)] 70 (f0 \s0700 ,.

3pm CL'QCJB 'L/*(\SCS‘Y\L—F 8
607/5Hl‘5" 2%

 

 

 




Letter to the Editor October 17, 1981
The NeW'York Times

229 west 43rd Street

EeW‘Yotk KY 10036

To the Editor:

Inasmuch as the technique of restraining a.functioning limb
to enceurage the use of an impaired corresponding member has been
around fer a long ttme, Dr. Basmsjisn's letter at October 15 denying
that this is the ease reveals a tragic gap in communication within
’the‘medicsl'profession.

' sDr. Basmsjisn also failed.to exylain Why it is necessary to
replicate stroke symptmms in monkeys by destructive surgery when
thousanés sf human victims, who could beth.benefit free the therapy
and describe their sensations, are languishing in nursing homes.

Msnkeys under Dr. Taub's care were kept in.unsanitary and
stressful csnditions. Same bit off their fingers and even.gnswed
into their shes, no deubt damaging the very muscles and nerves the
researChets were_trying'te rehabilitate. ‘. »

I ‘Dr. Tsnb is scheéuled ts answer charges brought under the
Marylené antiseruelty statutes later this month. It is to beheped
' that a review efthe case will serve to direct research efforts along
mere useful Channels that will bring mere-hmmediate relief to human
strek victhes. V I, I '
Winifred Aitchisen

RD 1 Box 116 .
Cansserage NY 14822

607/545ﬁ6213 BE SURE T0 GIVE PHONE NUMBER EHEN YOU WRITE! They Check.

Same. ~-
Dr. Taub's experﬂments'at the Behavioral Biology Center of the ‘
Instittue for Behavioral Research at Silver Spring, MD, conducted.under
a grant frmm the National Institutes of Health, remind me sf published
infonmstion on Nazi surgical experiments on the helpless inmates of
concentration camps frmm which no useful information was gained.

Why it shsuld be necessary to induce artificial paralysis
surgically in monkeys in order ts study "pathways in the Bervous systen

that may be substituted after severe damage" is not clear. I should
have thogéht that the responses of actual human stroke victims would
have yie ed more valuable infermstion. - -

As Dr. Tsub has been indicted on cruelty charges, Dr. B's response
response to a letter frmm MB. Aitchison sounds to me like smattempt by .
akmember of the medical profession to bolster the reputation of a colleague

Charles Wilson, Dansville NY (just t0 make sure they think of this)

 




- EDHORIALS

 

’ ThePresidenI Kepl His Word -

ADLY, many of the air traffic controllers

who walked off their jobs still do not seem

to understand the gravity of what they did. Call .

it mass hysteria 0r self-hypnosis, they appar-

ently believe the law . becomes negotiable for . '

those who have joined a union. Unless they hold

such a belief, it is‘ impossible to find any logical '

basis for the arguments they have offered.

For example, there is that hardy chestnut,
“Why shouldn’t federal workers have the same
right to strike as private workers?” The short
answer is, because Congress says they don’t.
And there is good reason for the prohibition. In
the private sector, strikes are restrained by a
built-in system of checks and balances. If either

the employer or the union is too greedy, the _.
business will suffer, and all involved will pay >

the price. In the public sector, however, the
only limit to what a union may demand is what
the taxpayers are willing to pay. When a vital
public service is withheld to coerce those tax-
payers, the act becomes simple extortion.

The controllers—and other public employs

unions—~are very choosy in their devotion to

democratic principle. They think. it’s appropri-
ate that selection of their officers, decisions to
strike and ratification of contracts should be
settled by vote of the union membership. But
they don’t want to permit the voters of the
nation to decide—through their elected repre-
sentativesé—how much will be paid for govern-

* ment services.

Surely the least worthy of the arguments is
that the controllers’ “sincere belief” in their

\ cause justifies violation of the law prohibiting

strikes by federal employes. A little thought
leads quickly to the realization that if such

' feelings justify lawbreaking, then there can be

no laws that mean anything. Any person who
knowingly disregards the law presumably be-
lieves he has a good reason. .

Enforcing the laws of the United States is
one of the President’s responsibilities. Ronald

' Reagan and the striking controllers took oaths

to carry out the duties of their respective of-
fices. The President kept his word. [3

What WaﬂSaid (

N THE course of research for an interview

with Interior Secretary James Watt, NA-
TION’S BUSINESS editors found that there is
often wide disparity between what the contro-
versial Secretary is reported to have said and
what the public record shows he said.

The interview that begins on page 36 sets the
record straight in Secretary Watt’s own words
, and puts the Reagan administration’s four-
point conservation program in clear focus.

Contrary to a lot of cries from environmental-
ists and other groups, there seems to be no

concerted effort to abandon the parks, pillage

the lands and despoil the outer continental
" shelf. What we have is thoughtful and logical
're-evaluation of programs coming under the

aegis of the Department of the Interior, with a
view toward balancing rationally the competing
needs of preservation, recreation, national de-
fense and economic development.

This refreshing approach is long overdue,
and it is worthy of commendation from the

' American people as a whole—the owners of the

resources involved. D

NATION’S BUSINESS 0 SEPTEMBER 1981

 




lN-DEPTH INTERVIEW
WITH SECRETARY WATI'

James G. Watt has been the subject
of more editorial cartoons than any
other member of President Reagan’s
cabinet. That tells one thing about
the lanky lawyer from Wyoming who
heads the Interior Department. That
he clips and posts the cartoons—with
a smile—on a giant, wall-sized bulle-
tin board provides another insight.
When Watt, who before his ap-
pointment headed the Denver-based
conservative Mountain States Legal
Foundation, took over at Interior,
shock waves rippled through environ-
mental and conservation special-in-
terest groups. It was, in their opinion,
the equivalent of letting the fox into
the hen house. His actions have been
scrutinized more closely than" those
of any other administration ofﬁcial.
Unfortunately, his supporters con-
tend, those groups and the media

 

—

Sen. Malcolm Wallop of Wyoming
says you are “the ﬁrst real Secretary
of the Interior that the country has
had In a couple of decades.”

- He’s probably the wisest man on the
Hill.

What are you doing differently that
would prompt such a remark?

I have approached the management
of our national resources with the real-
ization that they are there to benefit
Arnericans in all walks of life, and so I
have implemented some policies that al-
low energy development, mineral ex-
traction, grazing and timber cutting as
well as preservation and recreation.

In the past, the state of Wyoming, as
well as the other states, had just been
locked up to economic development and
set aside for a few backpackers rather
than the rest of us who might want to
use a four-wheeler or go horseback rid-
ing or develop some energy.

We intend to see that these public
lands, which amount to one third of the
nation—768 million acres, are used for
all Americans. Everybody has a right to
benefit from these lands.

You have mentioned four comer-
stones for Reagan administration

have made the man, rather than the
issues, the controversy. As a result,
Watt has grown accustomed to hear-
ing various factions call for his head.
And, his supporters insist, many posi-
tions, views and goals have been er-
roneously attributed to the 43-
year-old executive, whose Wash-
ington service dates to the ’605.

He was named a deputy assistant
secretary of Interior in 1969, director
of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation
in 1972, commissioner of the Federal
Power Commission in 1975, and vice
chairman of the commission in 1977.
All of which made him unusual
among key Reagan appointees—he
was ready to hit the ground running.

In this exclusive interview Watt
gives his views on the programs and
policies of the Reagan administration
and responds to his critics.

 

conservation policy. What are they?

In addressing the North American
Wildlife and Natural Resources Confer-
ence, I listed these points. . '

First, America must have a sound
economy if it is to be a good steward of
its ﬁsh and wildlife, its parks and all its
natural resources.

Second, America must have orderly
development of its vast energy re-
sources in avert a crisis development,
which could be catastrophic to the envi-
ronment.

Third, America’s resources were put
here for the enjoyment and use of peo-
ple, now and in the future, and should
not be denied to the people by elitist
groups.

Fourth, America has the expertise to
manage and use resources wisely, and
much of that expertise is in state gov-
ernment and in the private sector.

All actions President Reagan or I
have taken that affect conservation
grow out of those principles.

Critics, such as California Sen. Alan
Cranston, say you have gone beyond
the administration’s position on the
environment.

I’m fortunate in that I am probably

"I Must Search

the first Secretary of the Interior to
work for a President who understands
the Department of the Interior.

President Reagan, while serving as
governor of California for eight years,
had to deal with the department on a
daily basis. More than 40 percent of
California is owned by the federal gov-
ernment and subject to the dictates and
the reactions of the Secretary of the
Interior.

So when we’re dealing with environ-
mental issues, he has a keen aware-
ness. He understands the mission of the
department. In December, when I met
him for the first time, I outlined what I

thought his administration should do.'

He added to my proposals. So I know
what he wants done, and I know how he
wants it done. We are doing it, and our
department has had full support.

How have the career employes re-
acted?

In many instances, I had to turn the
bureaucracy 180 degrees to make major
changes in the direction they were
marching. I yelled out some orders. I
was harsh in some instances, but I got
their attention.

What surprised all of us was how
quickly they came around. We’ve made
great strides. We’re 8 to 10 months
ahead of our own schedule. The career
government employes have been just
phenomenal.

What do you consider your major
accomplishments in your seven
months in ofﬁce?

I have focused Congress’ attention
on the need to restore the National
Park System to its proper shape; we
have committed ourselves to a billion-
dollar program on that, and Congress is
supporting us enthusiastically.

I have opened for energy exploration
and development lands that had been
locked up for 10 to 15 years in an unrea—
sonable manner.

We have stimulated the hard-rock
mining industry and given it hope that
there is a future for domestic mining in
America.

We have focused attention on the
states’ role in land-use planning, in pro-

g
E
g
i

PHOTOS: DENNIS SHACK—BLACK STAR

 




 

viding recreational
opportunities for

tag.“ . * ‘ . . . their citizens, and

a.

’§*%§§i‘;:¥;§ I I ' - we have helped

M .- r- ' ‘ ‘~ : = ~ ‘ ‘ them realize that
they must expand
the opportunities
for such recreation,
that it is not the role
of the federal gov-
ernment.

: - is it true that, In
comparison with
Congress, you real-
ly have little au-
thority to make
drastic changes in
'ggggmﬁm managing public

Mnnsarmww

-an-I!h ' n
'- nﬁkww martyrs-513‘ . s

was: :vawqm

 

._‘i-11“3'1HW V
~..wm W hen [former

mm : _ Secretary of the In-

WW 5 a ; terior Cecil D.] An-

- mvfixntmxmt

..“‘%."E~.“»‘£e§‘;“;“~w ‘ drus left, he told the

murmur in mm

-m;;w;”“ New Y ark Times it

...........::;. g . ' didn’t make any dif-
- “W‘wm‘m ference who was go-
ing to be named
James Watt’s domain Secretary of the Interior because there
extends over much _ , ,_ p _ . wasn t anything that a Secretary could
of the West. it y r, .- p . .. . really change. Andrus said that was be—
' ' ” ’ cause of the cumbersome bureaucracy

and the special-interest groups.

Now I have come in, and within 30
days the Sierra Club started its drive to
run me out of here because I’d made
too many changes. And the National
Wildlife Federation is concerned that

. ° I’m bringing about too much change.

' I am trying to bring about change.
And I’m trying to do it in an aggressive
way that will be filled with common
sense and a balanced perspective.

So how much discretion is there? In
some people’s minds, not very much; in
others’, way too much.

Interior Secretary

The responsibilities of the Secre-
tary of the Interior seem to be in con-
ﬂict. On the one hand, the Secretary
ls charged with preserving the land,
and on the other he is responsible for
making these lands productive.

True, there is an absolute conﬂict
built into the Department of the Interi-
or. I am called, on one hand, the chief

 




environmental officer for the nation,
and the special-interest groups refuse
to look at anything else.

I suppose I might also be called the
chief miner on Department of the Inte-I
rior lands, the chief harvester of tim-
ber, the chief Indian. And these
missions, outlined by statute, are con-
tradictory in many instances.

To the various special-interest
groups, the Secretary has a statutory
duty to do A, B and C, but they refuse
to look at any of the other responsibil-
ities of the office.

That’s why I’m so critical .of the nar-
row special-interest groups on both the
development and the preservation
sides. I must search for balance. Yet, if
I do an effective job, I will receive criti-
cism at different times from the differ-
ent groups.

How do your deﬁnitions
of “national need” and “na-
tional interests,” when ap-
plied to the parks and
wilderness areas, differ
from environmentalists’
definitions?

I believe that these lands
need to be primarily pre-
served in their natural state
so they can be used by us and
by many generations yet to
come,'but I believe—and
here’s where the difference
comes—that they must be
made available in that natu-
ral state to the handicapped,

What is needed most is to build prop-
er sewage treatment facilities. That
means increasing drinking water sup-
plies, building proper roads, restoring
buildings that are deteriorating just
through age, replacing tunnels, repair-
ing what needs repairing.

Most of that has nothing to do with
use, it has to do with neglect. The greed
of those who want to expand the feder-
al estate and take private property off
the tax rolls was such that money had
been ﬂowing to further acquisition
rather than restoration.

So you want a change in the law?

We think good stewardship is taking
care of what we have, and so I asked
for a change in the law regarding the
use of the fund’s money. Government

PHO‘I’O: DENNIS mm STAR

Media coverage of Secretary Watt has been
intense because of changes he has made.

Yes, they are. And the critics have .
fabricated the story in an effort to raise
dollars. We have never suggested, nor
would we, that there would be mining
or timbering or drilling in parks unless
Congress has dictated it. For those peo-
ple to try to confuse the public is un-
fair. I have never suggested those
things, never will—and it will never
happen. The law protects the parks, as
it should, and we’re not asking that the
law be changed.

You speak of inventorying all public
lands to determine the best uses for
them. Is this a policy you initiated?

Congress has repeatedly asked for an
inventory, and it just has not been ef-
fectively done. Congress has done some
of the inventorying itself by setting

aside a national park and say-
ing that is its highest use;
there is no going back to see
what other values are there,
since Congress has already
determined that.

But we ought to look at the
millions and millions of acres
that we do need to know the
values of. For example,
BLM—the Bureau of Land
Management—has 341 mil-
lion acres to manage. That’s
in addition to the more than
190 million National Forest
Service acres and the 156 mil-
lion acres set aside for parks
and wildlife refuges.

N ow the 341 million acres

 

to the family, to the camper,
to the older couple, to the young couple
with not so much money and to the
children.

I do not think they ought to be set
aside for just the few backpackers who
are rugged enough and affluent
enough and have enough time.

You have asked that instead of
buying more parkland, money from
the Land and Water Conservation
Fund be spent on fixing up present
parks. Critics say that because the
parks are deteriorating from overuse,
more parkland should be purchased.
How do you respond?

Right now, the system is skewed to
acquiring more and not taking care of
what we have. We’re changing that. We
have increased by 225 percent the mon-
ey to be used for restoration.

I am critical of the special-interest
groups for encouraging department
policies that permit deterioration of our
park system. I don’t think we can af-
ford to lose what we have.

officials ought to be held accountable

for their actions. You take a govern-

ment employe and give him hundreds
of millions of dollars to acquire land,
but then you do not expect him to exer—
cise any judgment on acquisition and
development.

What does he do? He just does what
he is told—acquire, acquire, acquire.
Then he doesn’t have to take care of it
because he doesn’t have any money left
todo so. The entire procedure requires
no value judgments.

That’s not good stewardship. A re-
sponsible government decision maker
should determine whether he needs to
maintain what he has or can afford to
take more.

Your critics also say you intend to
open up wilderness areas and nation-
al parks to timber and mining compa-
nies, to oil and gas exploration. Aren’t
some of these wilderness areas,
parks and wildlife refuges exempt
from such multiple use?

NATION’S BUSINESS 0 SEPTEMBER 1981

managed by BLM—an area
twice the size of Texas—is land that
has a variety of values. We really have
not ever inventoried those lands. We
should know what strategic minerals
they hold.

For example, the United States is
critically dependent on foreign sources
for 22 of the 36 most needed strategic
minerals. At the moment, less than one
half of 1 percent of our lands is subject
to mining. I don’t think that is an exces-
sive amount, but I do think we’d better
determine what minerals we have in
this country.

Do we have the capability to be inde-
pendent, or are we vulnerable to a natu-
ral resource war? I think we’re
vulnerable today. We’d better correct
that.

You’ve proposed bringing the pri-
vate sector more into the operation
of the parks—concessionaires, for
example. Some say that plan will
commercialize and ruin the parks.

The critics continue, by design, to ig—
39

 




nore facts. The private entrepreneur
had been invited into the national parks
long before there was a National Park
Service. At our major parks, visitors’
services, for the most part, have always
been provided by concessionaires. And
they should be.

The question is: Can government or
the private sector provide better eating
facilities, sleeping accommodations and
campground facilities? I have faith that
the private sector can. There are not
sufficient taxpayer dollars to meet the
growing needs of the parks, and I think
we ought to invite the private sector in
and let it do the job and do it properly.

The National Park Service, you
have said, should get out of the busi-
ness of managing urban parks. Will
local communities be able to ﬁnance
and manage these parks if the Park
Service withdraws?

First, I have not proposed turning
any national parks over to city or local
government. There is no park “hit list.”
I have raised the question, however, of
‘just how far the federal government
should go in purchasing and. managing
parks or playgrounds.

Until relatively recently, local parks
and playgrounds were the province of
municipal and county governments.
Tradition and law required that nation-
al parks be areas of significant national
interest—places you or I might drive a
couple hundred miles to visit.

’Now, some mayors, some congress-
men think the federal government
should also pick up the tab for parks
that have, at best, questionable nation-
al significance. If the people in New
York City don’t want to pay for their
local parks, why should the people of
Denver have to foot the bill—or vice
versa? This debate has been going on
for decades in the National Park Ser-
vice. I just laid the issue on the table so
there could be some frank discussion. I
have not set any time frame.

Getting back to the land’s re-
sources, lt has been charged that you
are being shortsighted, that your poli-
cies risk spoiling our environment.

Every decision I have made has been,
I feel, for the long-term benefit of the
environment. I’ve been concerned for a
“long time that we do not properly man-
age our public lands, and that includes
our energy resources—in the West,
particularly. The West has 90 percent
of the nation’s uranium, 80 percent of
the coal and so on. It can become the
most energy-productive area of the
world, bar none: oil shale, coal, urani-

40

um, oil and gas. There’s enough energy
there to meet America’s needs for thou-
sands of years.

Enough to solve the energy crisis?

We do not have an energy crisis; we
have a crisis in government manage-
ment. If we do not allow the private
marketplace to go in and develop those
energy sources in a systematic, me-
thodical and environmentally sensitive
way, we will create such a political and
economic crisis in America that Wash-
ington will nationalize the industries
and attack our energy-rich West in
such a manner as to destroy the ecolo-
gy, primarily because it will decide it
must get to that energy to heat the
homes of the Northeast and keep the

PHOTO'DENNISBRACK—BLACK STAR

wheels of industry going in the Mid-
west.

And that we cannot afford.

So to protect the environment, we
must develop our energy in an orderly
and environmentally sensitive way. We
have not done that in recent years. In
fact, to the contrary, we have prohibit-
ed it. That’s one of the things I have
changed.

For a nation to be great, it must man—
age properly both its human resources
and its natural resources. America is
blessed with both—an abundance of tal-
ented human resources and an abun-
dance of natural resources.

If we will manage these resources
for the benefit of America, we can be a
great, great nation.

Would you spell out your views on
offshore oil drilling in general and the
controversial leasing of drilling sites

off Northern California in particular?

One of our important and thus far
underdeveloped energy resources lies
under our territorial waters. We have
explored only a small percentage of the
outer continental shelf under federal
jurisdiction. The 008 is not the only
solution to our energy crisis, but it is an
extremely important element.

The state of California has allowed
the drilling of 3,000 wells in state wa-
ters, and the federal government has
already permitted the drilling of more
than 500 wells on the 008 off Califor-
nia. So what we are talking about is
simply extending a program already in
operation. However, we have decided to
defer possible offshore Northern Cali-
fornia leasing pending the outcome of
our appeal of a recent federal court
decision.

U.S. offshore drilling has an out-
standing environmental record. We are
convinced that 008 development, on
balance, is far less risky for the envi-
ronment than the alternatives. A great
deal of study, thought and care has
gone into the decision—making process
for all 008 decisions.

You have announced that the de-
partment intends to lease 1 billion
acres over the next ﬁve years. How
can the oil and gas companies, which
are already drilling at a high rate, ex-
plore that many acres?

Industry isn’t going to rush out and
explore a billion acres in the next five
years—they know that and I know that.
What we are offering is a chance for
industry to go after gas and oil in areas
where industry believes gas and oil to
be. Some companies have quibbled with
my proposal, but the industry as a
whole supports it. I think the oil indus-
try will meet this challenge. The only
way we as a nation can lose is by offer-
ing too little, not too much.

Many statements that have raised
the hackles of environmentalists
have been attributed to James Watt.
Are the media reporting accurately?

I am surprised that the media can be
manipulated repeatedly by narrow spe-
cial-interest groups. Most of what has
been attributed to me was made up by a
critic and then repeated by the press.

Now, I have found a great dichotomy
between the reporters and the editorial
writers. The reporters frequently call
to check out something to see whether
there is some truth to it. But it seems
that a search for truth doesn’t slow up
editorial writers much.

NATION’S BUSINESS ' SEPTEMBER 1981

 




A recent National Wildlife Federa-
tion survey measured members’
opinions of your environmental prior-
ities. The results were used to sup-
port calls for your resignation. Yet to
one question, 44 percent of the re-
spondents answered that they .didn’t
know enough about your policies to
make a judgment. What did you think
of the survey?

I looked at one of the questions, and
it gave me four alternative answers.
Answer A was so reasonable and well
written and understandable that, of
course, I selected it. The other three
answers were really off the wall. It
turned out 95 percent of the respon-
dents also picked choice A.

Choice B was the answer they had
attributed to me, which was ridiculous
and totally unfair. By voting the way I
did on that one question, I was voting, I
learned, to force the resignation of Jim
Watt as Secretary of the Interior.

If the rest of the poll was similar to
what I saw in that one question I an-
swered, it was so rigged and unfair
that it wasn’t worth studying. I dis-
missed it entirely.

Have you solicited views from the
environmentalists’ side? Do you ever
invite them to your regular breakfast
sessions?

Yes, they’ve all been in—and as they
left, they called news conferences to
denounce us.

Politics is often called a game of
compromise. You’ve been accused of
not compromising on issues, of fol-
lowing the letter of the law. Are you
inﬂexible?

We’ve seen parks deteriorating,
we’ve seen the grazing lands threat-
ened, we’ve seen our economy suffer
double-digit inﬂation, we’ve seen eco-
nomic development brought to a halt by
poor decisions coming out of the De-
partment of the Interior. When I came
here, the pendulum was swinging way
out in left field. I’ve got to bring it into
the middle, into mainline America.

And so I am being tough—and I am
not compromising with those who seek

toblock economic activity. I am going
to bring about a commonsense ap-
proach, which is incorporated into the
law, to see that these resources are
managed for the benefit of all Ameri~
cans, not just for the select few. U

To order reprints of this
article, see page 70.

NATION’S BUSINESS 0 SEPTEMBER 1981

we keystones of .a healthy economy
' achievmg unparalleled impedance .
this decade, energy ’and transpor ,.
' tic North American Royalties. inc;

 

Chattanooga
Tennessee

eds Vital

'1 i‘ $3.”: 1. “ -'

' :1 L. ti

: Royalties .. no

:15 «gems? :3:-

“1221: kg”. .

 

3 .

 

 




 

\

MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1981 ,"’ WEI/V I 926% 77M£§

 

‘ N 0t Only Federal Parks Need Federal Dollars ‘

 

To the Editor:

In his Editorial Notebook of Aug. 18,
Hugh Price presented an admirable
brief for protecting national parks at all
reasonable costs. “The crown jewels
and other gems of the park system,” he

wrote, “are precious to the nation’s.

past and future. Their claim on the na-
tional budget is very special.”

I endorse wholeheartedly Mr. Price’s
statement but regret that he limited his
reference to that part of our national
heritage preserved through the Na-
- tional Park Service.

The AdminiStration in Washington is
proposing to pull out of the partnership

with state and local parks that the Fed- __
eral Government itself did so much to t —

parks with their swimming pools and
basketball hoops and small-town parks
with their picnic tables and ballfields

. also serve a significant national pur-

pose by providing essential outlets for
social tensions.

encourage for so many years. If In- ’ f

terior Secretary James Watt has his
way, the nation’s park budget will be
.slashed, and the small amount remain-
ing will be reserved solely to rehabili-
tate national park facilities.

I realize that the American citizen
has had it with taxes and inﬂation.
There is a definite need to review gov-
ernmental programs, to eliminate
. those that are inefficient. The economy
is in trouble, and we’re all going to have
to readjust our expectations.

But I question whether it is in the na-
tional interest to give priority to parks
run by the Federal Government and to
turn our backs on all the rest. The value
- of a park and the importance of saving
it cannot be determined solely on the
basis of who runs it. The state parks at
Niagara Falls and Jones Beach, Cen~
tral Park in New York City and Dela-
ware Park in Buffalo are no less signifi-
cant because primary responsibility for
them rests outside the Federal Govern-
ment. I would go even further. Big-city

Throughout America there are thou-
sands of such places under state and
local jurisdiction. The numbers of peo-
ple they serve exceed by countless mil-
lions the total of those who can afford
to pile into the family car and set out
on a long journey toward distant Fed-

‘eral parklands. For many, these state

and local parks provide a healthy al-
ternative to days on crowded streets
looking for something to do. .
Unfortunately, a high percentage of
these parks were developed a half cen-
tury ago or even before. In recent
years, their age and heavy use have
begun to take a toll. Park administra-
tors confronting inﬂation on the one

hand and reStricted budgets on the
other are finding it increasingly diffi-
cult to maintain the parks’ quality.
Beginning in 1965, Congress saw the
gradual deterioration of such facilities
and the threatened loss of state and
local parks as a national problem.
Through the Federal Land and Water
Conservation Fund, the Urban Park
Recovery Act and other programs,
Congress met this problem head-on. .
The most useful of the Federal park
programs, it should be emphasized,
derived their revenues not from in-
come taxes but rather from the sale of
leases to oil companies for offshore

’ ' . - drilling. Congress set this money

aside, mostly for parks, because it felt
that the American people, in trading
off a valued asset, were entitled to one
of equal value in return.

Since they were initiated, the Fed-
eral park grant programs have be-
come not just productive, they have
become almost indispensable. Now
however, the sudden shift in national
policy poses a serious threat to the fu-
ture of all parks.

Clearly, we are experiencing a revo-
lution, albeit a bloodless one, in our do-
mestic philosophy. As with all revolu-
tions, in the mad rush for change, good
programs go out with the bad. But his
also true of revolutions that common
sense and moderation eventually take
hold.

For all the gems of our park systems
— state, local and national — and the
millions who now benefit from them
we must pray that moderation sets in
before it is too late. ORIN LEHMAN

New York State Commissioner
of Parks and Recreation
Albany, Aug. 25, 1981

 




MSUNDAY SEPTEMBERb, 1981

my: Atlanta losing! AND CONSTITUTION

..-27D

Sagebrush RebelliOn tumbles toward dusty future

By WILLIAM ENDICO’l'l‘

The Les Aussies Times

RENO. Eggs- When President
Reagan swept through the West on a
campaign trip last fall, he told back.
ers of the brush Rebellion at a
‘ rally in 111:1... to “count me in as a

rebel" and .pihiked to support their
goal of gaining state control of the
millions ofggacres of timber and

mineral-richjxederal land west of the __,

Rocky Mountains.

“I happen V to be one who cheers
and supports the Sagebrush Rebel-
lion,” Reagaltfsaid.

Chafing under federal bureaucracy
and domination, the movement’s

leaders had reason to revel when
Reagan moved: into the White House

and chose a Wyoming native, James.

G. Watt, “Watery of the Interior.
But seven months’ into the Reagan

administration and two years after it '

was launched by a handful of Nevada
legislators, the Sagebrush Rebellion 1s
on the vergeeteollapse ~

A federalajudge in Nevada recently
threw out a lawsuit the state filed in
large part to establish its claim of
sovereignty over the land within its

borders. There is little support in.

,Congress ”for Sagebrush Rebellion
legislation and there is little or no
support from either Reagan or Watt
for massive land transfers.
Nevertheless, delegates meeting
6

here recently at the annual Western
Conference of the Council of State
Governments attempted to breathe
new life into the rebellion and
adapted a resolution reaffirming its
goals. But there was little conviction
in his voice when Nevada Assembly-
man Dean Rhoads told reporters,
“The Sagebrush Rebellion is not
dead. ”

He acknowledged, however, that
Watt is apparently trying to defuse it.

“He seems to feel that now that '

he’s in office we've got nothing to
worry about, that we don't need the
Sagebrush Rebellion," Nevada state

Sen. Norman D. Glaser said. “But the ‘

next administration could flap over
180 degrees, so we’re still pushing.”

Dllemma with Watt '

Actually, the presence of Watt in
the Department of the Interior has
posed a real dilemma for many West-
ern legislators. On the one hand, they
strongly defend him against environ-
mentalists and other critics and ep-

4 plaud many of his initiatives to scrap ,
federal regulations and open up

federal lands to resource develop-

ment. But on the other hand they be .

lieve they are being paid only politi-
callipserviceinwhatisoneofthe

- major tests of states’ rights in this
' century.

The ambivalence that they appar-

ently feel toward Watt was reflected

at last week’s conference when dele-
gates, at the urging of Wyoming state
Rep. Marlene Simone, adopted a reso-

lution in support of the secretary and

his policies and at the same time
were sharply critical of him for turn-1
ing down a request to address the
conference.

Simone and Arizona state Rep. Joe
Lane said the choice of Watt was
“one of the finest moves Ronald Rea-
gan has made.” Simone added that “I
honestly don't feel Reagan or Watt
can, by any stroke of the pen, solve
our problems. The West has to keep
the heat on.”

He said the Western legislators had

to settle for “assistants to the assist-

ant“ assistant” and, “I think we de—

serve a little better treatment.”

The only two Reagan

V administration representatives at the

conference were Frank Dubois, a
deputy assistant secretary in the De-
partment of the Interior, and Judy

eachee, a special assistant to the
president for intergovernmental af-

fairs.

Peaches told the delegates that the

' president’s “bottom line” is returning

But Nevada state Sen. Keith Ash-t

worth, the conference chairman, said,
.two events make me believe the
new team in Washington thinks they

know what’s good for the West and

don't need to listen to us anymore.”

Ashworth said an agenda for at

meeting between Council of State

Government leaders and the presi- 4

dent earlier this year contained no

issuesofconcemtotheWeshsuchas

the Sagebrush Rebellion, and “the
second event was the difficulty in
getting any high~level administration
figures to come to this annual meet:
mg. ll

power to the states, but Dubois told

I them that Watt does not support mas-

sive transfers of land to the states.

Challenge to federal control
The Sagebrush Rebellion was born

V’ in 1979 when Nevada lawmakers
, guided a bill through their Legisla-

ture challenging federal control of

millions of acres of public lands in

the state currently managed by the
federal Bureau of Land Management.
Since then, several other states, in-
eluding Wyoming, Arizona,
Mexico and Utah. have passed simi-

lar laws. Legislation is pending in ,

other states.
Ultimately, the issue may reach

‘ the Supreme Court, with the states
’ arguing that Washington illegally co-

upted the largely uninhabited sections
of the West when the various Western
states were admitted to the Union
and, in the ensuing years, placed too

New ,

many restrictions on mining, ranch-
ing, timbering and water develop-
ment - although Watt has moved to .
ease many of those restrictions. They ,

1. also argue that they are being denied °

the economic advantages of the lands
and their riches at a time when they
are escalating in value.

“We’ re tired of the federal govern, ».
ment usurping the powers of the _
state, ” New Mexico state Sen. Charlie
T. Lee said

Despite the widespread support fer
the Sagebrush Rebellion in the West,
however there is no unananimity of ’
opinion on the issue. Environmental-
ist and wildlife groups in the West -
fear the loss of public lands to devei-' 1
opers and ranchers and worry that "
the states might be less committed to .

“the wise use and conservation of ‘

natural resources" than is the federal ,
government.

Those views were not often heard
here last week, except in a speech on
the final day of the conference by“
former Nevada state Sen. C Clifton
Young, now the president of the Na-
tional Wildlife Federation.

lie termed the Sagebrush Rebellion:

“legislative lunacy” and said its-

chances of success were “so remote
as to be non-existent. ”

Ironically, he was chosen to «1.3
dress the conference as a substitute
for someone who turned down the inv‘
vitation — Secretary of the Interiore‘
James G. Watt. '

 




THE PLAIN DEALER I

THOMAS VAIL ROY O. KOPP DAVID L. HOPCRAFT

Publisher and Editor

Business Manager

Executive Editor

14OTH YEAR NO. 242 "DAILY 406,444 SUNDAY 468,541

mmmmmmexmmmmai.autummmmmaaeummmiomn.

EDITORIALS

 

Protect the wilderness

. Manya federal regulation, costly, obese
3:, with subclauses and layers of paper work,

' is feeling the chill breath of future obliv-
‘ ion these days, but at least one doesn’t
deserve ignominious demise: the presided-
tial- order that protects national parks,
recreation areas and public lands from
~ damage by off-road vehicles.

The executive order, first written by
President Richard M. Nixon in 1972, is a
; symbol of White House commitment to the
‘ preservation of America’s irreplaceable
natural environmental systems. Its practi-
cal effect is limited — it forces federal
. agencies to designate lands under their
‘control as either Opener closed to off-road
vehicles and provide, minimal protection
. —- but what it says about dedication to the

earth and the right of future generations.

. to enjoy it is infinitely valuable.
No recreational snowmobile, trail bike,
, dune buggy .or other motorized toy should
be permitted where its use would harm
. vital wilderness. Erosion, vegetative dam:
age and disruption. of wildlife habitats
occur where, off-road vehicles travel. In
articularly, sensitive areas, just one pass
y a trail bike is enough to disturb the
ecosystem for years. ‘

. The pinch, of course, is agreeing upon
which natural areas should be preserved
as wilderness and which should be opened
to recreational use by motorized Ameri-

!

cans, who deserve a chance to pursue their '

happiness, too. Most of them, we are sure,
cause minimal harm, but it’s the rippers
and destroyers who make protection so
critical. The presidential order is an um-

.brella, covering all federal agencies that

.deal with land; the National Park Service
and the Bureau of Land Management are
the largest. Park Service lands are well
prOtected by various federal laws, making
the president’s order unnecessary there.
The bureau, however, controls vastly more
territory - some 250 million acres, much
of it in the arid areas of the West -— and
its regulations are patchy, far mushier and
more subject to the inevitable tug and pull

‘ of high-pressure politics. '

Most of the hard work forced on the
bureau by the presidential order is done.
More than 34 million acres, the most se-
verely endangered, have been studied and
designations assigned. The bureau’s. self.
imposed deadline for completing the proc-
ess is 1985, and one of the reasons for the
proposed abandonment of the order, offi-
cials say, is that they can’t meet it. But
with the critical areas done, will the re-
maining 216 million acres be as difficult
to assess, as time-consuming, as «expen-
sive? Would a deadline extension be
unreasonable? '

The portion of the bureau’s budget
dedicated .last fiscal year to designation
($1.3 million) and “protection,” including
the posting of signs ($800,000) won’t res-
cue the federal treasury from deficit. And
no one is talking about the time and
money that the bureau will have to invest
in writing, passing and implementing
regulations changes even it acknowledges
twill be necessary to protect vulnerable
iland if the order is vacated. Changes
would be done piecemeal, bit by wilder-

ness bit. The bureau would jump when the
fire bell rang, responding to environmen- '

tal crises instead of anticipating them.
That is no way to run a government.

They’re wide-eyed and innocent in

Washington: no one intends to throw public _
lands to the gasoline-powered wolves. But

it could happen. It’s the subtle shift of
attitude, the hollow sound of a preserva-
tion chorus without the president’s voice,

the small amount of money saved for the .

great amount of symbol lost that worry

us.Iftheheartofthetreeisdead,itwill'

eventually fall.

 

 




e Wilderness Society announces the
diate formation of “Wilderness Watch”,
a special task force devoted to the

” day-by-day momtoring of the

Vital policies, decisions,

and actions that

A alfect our public ands

‘ and ,, Wild lands made

by JAMES WATT,

recently appointed

United States

7 Secretary of Interior

' (see other side
fora summary
of Secretary Wa tt’s
anti-environmental
background and some
of his alarming

mews. . .

Photo credit: UPI

 




Introducing James Watt, *

quite possibly the

most inappropriate
Secretary of Interior ,

in the history of
this country-

His qualiﬁcations to protect
our environment . . . '

As a lobbyist for the US. Chamber of Commerce (September,
l966-January, 1969) Watt lobbied against Senator Edmund
Muskie’s attempts to draft the nation’s principal water quality
legislation. ,. ' . _

As Deputy Assistant Interior Secretary (May, l969-June,
1972) Watt awarded two consulting contracts totaling $60,000 to a
friend. He later admitted to a Senate committee that he had made a
serious error and had violated his own standards, but “when you’re
trying to get results you go to people you know.”

As Director of the Bureau of Recreation (July, 1972-
September, 1975) Watt took a tour of a remote mountain region
within a state park system and asked his escort why the large stands
of ripe timber weren’t being harvested and why the thick meadows

weren’t being grazed. Watt’s host remembers, “I got the feeling he

didn’t understand the purpose of parks.”

As Vice Chairman of the Federal Power Commission
(September, 197S-June, 1977) Watt helped triple prices on “new”
natural gas from 50 cents to $1.42 per thousand cubic feet. .

As President and ”Chief Legal Officer for the Mountain States , I

Legal FOundation (June, 1977oJanuary, 1981) Watt’s leadership
gave the organization the reputation of being anticonsumer,
antifeminist, antiblack, antigovernment, and, above all, anti-
environmentalist. For example, Watt said the Departments of
Agriculture and Interior cannot claim the delegated power they

have from Congress to restrict public access to federally owned '

lands—in giving them wilderness protection, for instance.

His alarming views . . .
I “We don’t have to worry about endangered species,” Watt
preached recently, “why, we can’t even get rid of the cockroach.”

I Amidst concern by members of the Park Service and
environmentalists that the parks are reaching their carrying
capacity and that heavy use may be threatening the natural
resources of the parks, Watt commented, “We can learn a great deal
from Walt Disney’s crowd management principles.”

I Watt, in a speech to businessmen who run concessions in many

national parks promised that if any member of the National Park

Service gave them a problem “we’re going to get rid of the problem
or the pérsonality, whichever is fastest.”

What others say. . .

Gaylord Nelson, who organized Earth Day in 1970 while a
Democratic Senator and is now chairman of The Wilderness
Society, calls Watt the “ﬁrst chief conservation ofﬁcer of the whole
country to be an outspoken opponent of the environmental
movement.” Nelson says Watt is in a position “to do a great deal of
damage to our public lands and our environment.”

Carolyn johnson, the project director at the Denver-based
Public Lands Institute, which ran up against Watt and the Mountain
States Legal Foundation several times, says of Watt, “This guy is the
epitome of the philosophy of big government reﬂecting what big
industry wants. He’ll have quite a challenge showing he can run the
department in a way that can answer the needs of all Americans,

.' and not just narrow interests.”

Rep. john Seiberling of Ohio, chairman of the House Public
Lands and Natural Resources Subcommittee, feels Watt’s policy

'statements have been “all on the side of consumption of our

resources by the corporate interests that want to use the public
lands for their own gain.” '

7 Senator Alan Cranston of California, in remarks published
in the Congressional Record, said “. . . Interior Secretary James
Watt in his Senate conﬁrmation hearing called the Land and
Water Conservation Fund ‘one of the most eﬁective preservation
and conservation programs.’ He was correct. Yet now, Secretary
Watt proposes to abolish [it]. Mr. President, I would hate to
believe that Mr. Watt was deliberately misleading Senators
during his conﬁrmation hearing, but it is diﬂicult to believe that
he might have changed his mind. Perhaps there is no
contradiction here: Mr. Watt believes it is ‘one of the most
effective preservation and conservation programs,’ and,
therefore, Mr. Watt is against it.”

It is not enough . . .

just to be frightened by the disastrous policies James Watt can
inﬂict on our land, to our natural wilderness heritage.

Each of his policies, decisions, recommendations and
actions must be carefully monitored and their impact on our
wilderness studied. And whenever Secretary Watt sets forth on a
path that will permanently damage our wilderness and wildlife,
someone must blow the whistle!

The Wilderness Society and its new “Wilderness Watch” is
prepared to do just that.

Join The Wilderness Society, and help us protect our precious park, forest, and wilderness lands today!

,.. wamﬁ—u—‘.

 




ff /

/ /
/QZ /*

/
/
I
I
i I
I"
.
'2...
-:,c'
.
4‘4,
1}: .v'
2.
. (v
34
A /
I
I I:
.7!
‘2}
.4
5] /,. T
'1 -f«
'. i 1.
. 7 5
. //

~ -' -'\\\‘.

ATLANTA JOURNAL CONSTITUTION - Setember 6, 1

5

A

‘..
/.y , .
,u
I z ' .«
4f<z’-'/
W’
1 .5 -I .' 'ﬁu ‘.'
/ ." .-‘PJ""‘:-’x‘
v q I
l s
'04 ‘
I
. 0|

0

/‘

. lr/
/

. ‘1
D

;.,a
, ,,
Qt

3‘ R55 FORWETSIERN /
mmgVVAﬁ 3:4 ’ /

\

' " WAN \m\\\\b\"

A . “ .2’, .
~..5\\ \exxxx . 5‘
A s

\

.1"

a.

o'
/ .
,5} I ”0/
, I, ', ., I
5551524“

I," .
793’ ' .
/"/) I”, ‘ /f,',.- , ' , f
I,‘ ..; z ,4.»,./1/, -‘
/,5///.~" ' I. 'y ’.”/' 5.5..” '11 .
m L m ' .' ‘,-..< .5 (
,'/ 4’.-'</// I295; “5:: 1‘ u. . '

f"

v ’1' "
/ I 7/”; (M
I / I//," {(6 "k

5'?

3.3.25? M55!“ ”

z

I

._ A
a '

’ , 1/]; r“ :g:.‘::
/' ".-
%f// '

/ .,

981

w.- - —...

xi:

3 3
1

x

1 'W55 mvmm -

95mm ADMrr _
., THU AOD RAN :5

_, f' A SERIOUS mm,
.. , I I5 AWAmAG comm
_ ATION TOTNE com.

; ' . 'o
A m

’/ z
7
.‘,~ /

4’53.“ . . , .
N’ “magma No NEED FOR

OW 0F 05-
, F134 $\N\LDL\FE -

,/

)4

“55,;

L. ; é ,
T////’:/‘

”n _./Y
zxxttﬁzzmwm
559%”5’43311W ,

Igwh’ﬁr/W‘ﬂabai; Ami/W 3 ' '

v.
a.

.0:

 

“‘2“—

T

k 5 .. /
Anuwmu

. e’
//

55mm 95255152 WAﬁ, - ~

A VETEENARAN
WHO CA‘SIWED

: 3:1"sz
0’ _-0_ ya

. . .
1")"

. 'n'.‘
7

Q
o
.9
o.
O

w w .. INISTRNIDR
FORM. 55A. MNNTNNS

{u- 'o,-"'
33“.” I

’0
./

'1, ,2

mum “32 AC3“ 5

I
. " g " '3
‘5' /f/, ‘ ‘f T
{! 'Iv’d' 33".;- , / -"
"{1}; 23'? f5. ’3
I 1‘ I
n f‘;

1'

I 5/
251:5

I”

' I

I I
I .
I

dalNCROWELL...A;
W FOEMB? ‘HMBEE’
~55 . comm, 961:. If:

I

v
I
c

I 7/311, "1'va
,////, -.
'. ,.‘./I‘ > 314/52/ ’ '

 

r /// 1/

. M //"", ’
//", ’"//7///Z , ’

 

 

 

 




38-A . . . tithe Atlanta ﬂauruai AM) LUNS'l'lTU'I‘lUN SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1981,“

‘1

officialssee secret Prairie moth site

 
     

 

  

£13.. New-York rum ‘ - ‘ " ' . 7 '

tEGREELEY, Colo. -- Officials of the world
Wilglglife Fund, which has fought to preserve the
giant? panda in the mountains of China and the 1
hu " " ack whale in the seas off Hawaii, have?

visf ed the lost colony of the rareand elusive

prairie sphinx moth at a secret site on the high

plains of northeastern, Colorado.

hitter dodging moth fanciers. who trailed
thei‘group in hopes of adding the rare'moth to
their collections, the officials met Friday in a
sandy gully on' private ranchland. There a team
of graduate students led by a Wyoming state re-

seajtilh biologist have staked out 'a small plot ‘

where in 1979 they discovered the? world’s last
known colony of the moth, known scientifically
as Euproserpinus wiesti. Until their discovery,

scientists had feared that the species, which

disappeared after its discovery in 1934, had be-
come extinct; ' ~ -

. »; The prairie sphinx moth has four‘anterior ~
wingsof mottled shades of gray and brawn, and

its?underwings .are a pale yellow, outlined in
black. Lepidopterists (scientists who specialize

in the study of moths and butterﬂies) prize the ‘

moth for. its beauty and rarity and sometimes
refer to it as the “holy grail” of the inth
world. >

.‘E f‘Coming here is like coming to Mecca,”
Dr; Robert M. Pyle said on arrival at the site
Friday. Pyle, one of the world’s leading

‘ lepidopterists, is also founder of the Xerxes

Society, an international organization for com
serving the habitats of rare insects. r
‘5 .‘jfyle was joined by Russell E. Train, who is

j‘§?§i;~'SCientists sometimes

 

‘Coming- here is like coming to '

Mecca,’ Dr. Robert M. Pyle ~Said
on arrival at the Colorado site

' Friday. Pyle, one of the world’s

leading Iepidopterists, is also

founder of the Xerxes Society, ..
an International organization for ,
conserving the habitats; of: rare
insects.» .1 . , '
“~

president of the World Wildlife Fund, which this ,

year contributed a $5,000 grant to a study of
the habitat of\ the rare moth. Train was admin-

' istrator of the Environmental Protection Ag- p"

ency under Presidents Nixon and Ford. .
The meeting Friday was the first look out-

siders have had at the site, which has been kept
(a secret for fear that insect collectors might

raid it for adult specimens, which are said to be
worth about 8750 apiece in America and twice
thatgin EurOpe. ' “ * ,

According to Dr. Karolis Bagdonas, who is
directing the moth study when he is not working
as a research biologist with the Wyoming De
partment of Fish and Game, the survival of the
moth colony is constantly threatened by

. weather, insecticides and the persistence of un-

scrupulous collectors.

two weeks each spring,
_ were about 200 healthy larvae in the ground at

call beallties o‘holy grail’ of insect world

Though the adult moth survives for only
Bagdonas said there

the site.

. “In Other words, you can figure that about
$200,000 is buried here,” he said. He added that

_ members of the study team had already been
tailed by collectors hoping the researchers
would unknowingly lead them to the study site,

and were forced to drive 80 miles in another
direction to throw the collectors off the trail.
There has been an attempt to have the

_. moth listed as an endangered species by the De-
_ partment of Interior, but Train and others say

that because of budget reductions, the Reagan

. administration has decided to exclude all inver-

tebrate’ species from, consideration as possible
endangered species. “This is a terribly serious
problem which holds the seeds 0f biological
disaster down the road,” Train said of the
exclusion of invertebrates, “particularly when
you realize that 90 percent or more of all ani-
mal species are invertebrate."

The species was first discovered in 1934 by
Dr. Ray Wiest, an amateur lepidopterist who
lived in northeastern Colorado. Hundreds of col-
lectors and scientists spent the next 45 years
combing the High Plains, unsuccessfully search-
ing for additional specimens.

Bagdonas said his team of university stu-
dents found the lost colony on the first day of a
field search in 1979. They had been drawn to
the area near Greeley because it was also the
habitat of the prairie primrose, a plant that 3
provides a host for the larval eggs. , ‘ ‘

 

 




STATE OF FLORIDA

@ffite of the @Uhernnr

THE CAPITOL
TALLAHASSEE 32304

BOB GRAHAM
GOVERNOR

August 11,

Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, NE
Atlanta, Georgia 30345

Dear Mrs. Yarbrough:

The Governor appreciates your bringing to his attention your
concern regarding "cockfightihg" in the State of Florida.

Please be assured that the Governor does nOt condone cruelty
to any animal and if the people of Florida will voice their
concern regarding this type of animal cruelty, I am sure the
Florida Legislature, makers of the law, will act appropriately.
May I suggest that you contact members of your local delegation
to the Legislature and apprise them of your feelings on this
matter.

Thank you for being concerned and perhaps in the near future
there will exist a law to stop such activities by humans against
animals.

With kind regards,

Otey-Goo g

Citizens Assistance Program

 




