 

 

 

VIVISECTION
IN LIVERPOOL

(1917)

 

 

' Experiments on
the

Brains of Dogs

 

 

By

WALTER R. HADWEN,
M.D., J.P.

—___.

PRICE ONE PENNY

———.——___

g}

%
€94”:

PUBLISHED BY THE A

British Union for Abolition of Vivisection,
32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON SW 1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Experiments on the Brains of Dogs.

(Reproduced from the ABOLITIONIST of October, 7977.)

; N.B.——The photograph of the dog appearing on page 6 is reproduced from the
journal with which the article deals. The other pictures were published in
America a few years previously.

 

IFTY pages of the June issue of the Quarterly

Journal of Experimental Physiology are devoted

to an account of a number of experiments per-

formed upon a small organ of the brain called the

pituitary body. The text is accompanied by ﬁfty-seven
illustrations.

In the ABOLITIONIST of March, 1913, we referred to

 

“ OBSERVATION 36.—Adult fox terrier ; a total removal of the pituitary 10
days after preceding heterogeneous transplant in bone marrow. Photo-
graph taken 4 days after operation, showing typical attitude. with arching
of back, etc.. characteristic of onset of cachexia hypophyseopriva.“

similar experiments performed by Sir Victor Horsley on
fourteen dogs in “the year 1886, and we published some
illustrations showing the horrible deformities resulting
from such operations. We reproduce two of them.
The present Vivisector, Dr. W. Blair Bell of Liver—
pool, has subjected tWenty-seven bitches to operation.
He conducted his investigations in the Pathological
Department of the University of Liverpool, and for
the facilities afforded him in doing so, he acknowledges




 

Q‘...‘ '-

 

3

his indebtedness to Professor Ernest Glynn, whose

many random and inaccurate assertions on “Microbes
and the War” were dealt with in our April issue (1917).
The pituitary body is a very small reddish-grey mass
lying toward the front part of the base of the brain;
it weighs only from ﬁve to ten grains, and consists of
two lobes; that in front is the larger and is oblong
in shape, and that behind is round. The two lobes
differ both in development and structure. In the
lower animals the two lobes are quite distinct, but
in the mammalia they become connected together.
Curiosity led Sir Victor Horsley, thirty years ago, to
try to ascertain what were the functions of this tiny
little vascular mass. And since then many others
have made
8 i m i l a r
attempts.
“In almost
e v e r y
case,”says
thepresent
writer,“the
operation
was a fail-
ure from a
scientiﬁc
point of
view, or
post—opera-
tive com-
plications
resulted in

 

“ OBSERVATION 60.——Fox terrier puppy, 14 days after total
removal of the pituitary. Symptoms of cachexia

the death hypophyseopriva of 8 days’ duration, and more
f h advanced than shown in previous illustration. Photo-

0 t e graph a few hours before death.”

animal.”

These successive “failures” and “ unreliable results”
were largely due, we are told, to “imperfect methods,”
the Vivisectors having sought to reach the base of the
brain by boring through the jaw, and it is horrible
to contemplate what the poor animals must have
suffered, especially in foreign laboratories, where, as
we know, even an apology for an anaesthetic is dispensed
with if it should interfere in the least with the vivisector’s
work or convenience. '

 




 

4

Dr. Blair Bell adopted the plan introduced by
Paulesco, Professor of Physiology at Bucharest, of
boring an opening in the temples of the twenty-seven
animals he used up, and his object was, he says, “ to
test the correctness or otherwise of the experiments
carried out by Paulesco and in attempting to gain
further information concerning the experimental
pathology of the pituitary.”

THE .OPERATIVE PROCEDURE.

The article gives a full description of the whole
. procedure. Most of the dogs used were from four to
seven months old, as the skull plates are thinner in
younger than in older animals. One animal died from
bleeding “due to faulty surgical technique.” Another
had an “ overdose of ether.” A third succumbed
“from some unknown cause” soon after the pituitary
body had been totally extirpated.

A few days prior to the main operation the dogs
were submitted (under ether) to an abdominal operation
for the removal of an ovary and another portion of
the genital organs. The anaesthetic for the chief
operation on the brain was administered mechanically
through the windpipe and not by inhalation,_ as the
operator wished to work comfortably without having
the anaesthetist in his way. He says this method was
“ smooth, uninterrupted and safe” and the animal “was
easily restored to consciousness by the administration
of air alone” through the tube in the windpipe. We
confess we do not feel happy about this method in
the case of a dog strapped immovably to its trough.
No surgeon would care to perform an operation on the
skull of a human being under such conditions. But, at
the same time, it is only right to say that an anaesthetist
devoted himself solely to watching the animal’s breath-
ing and feeling its heart-beat with his hand under
the covering cloth. The operator also says it was
completely under the influence of the anaesthetic before
he commenced the primary work of opening the skull.

AND ITS RESULTS.
The chief symptom arising from this mutilation was
(as in the cases illustrated on the preceding pages)
what is called “cachexia hypophyseopriva,” that is,

‘ai




‘6-

5

emaciation due to the removal of the pituitary body
and resulting in hideous deformities. But the present

‘ investigator, Dr. Blair Bell, says he does not agree

that the attitude assumed by dogs which have been
operated upon is the speciﬁc result of the operation, and
argues that it is “merely an attitude of weakness which is
always seen in dogs in an advanced stage of emaciation
and debility from any cause whatsoever.”

If this be the case, then, what caused the
emaciation P If the emaciation and deformity are
not the result of the removal of the pituitary body,
they must be due to the general diSOrganisation of the
brain caused by the operation, and if the disorganisation
can produce similar symptoms to those produced by
removal of the pituitary, we fail to see that any
scientific conclusion can be drawn from the operation
itself. The inevitable contradiction of one another by
vivisectors is in this instance of some importance.

By way of control experiments, two bitches were
submitted to the same procedures as the others; that
is, portions of the womb and ovary were excised, and
the pituitary body was exposed in the brain, but none of
it removed. The animals lived for months; but “neither
showed any symptoms until shortly before death, when
one of them died with convulsions.” The writer thinks
it must have been poisoned, because another bitch
chained up next it died in convulsions at the same time.

ANIMALS CANNOT TALK !

In the cases where the pituitary was wholly removed,
all the animals succumbed in from twenty-two to
thirty-six hours after the Operation. They became
dull, refused their food, then coma set in and they died.

Much the same story is told when the anterior
lobe only was removed; but it was found impossible
to remove the anterior lobe without damaging the
posterior.

So partial removal of the anterior lobe was tried in
ﬁve bitches. They were allowed to live from 9 up
to 40, 60, 108 and 210 days. Beyond drowsiness or
“animal very weak through the whole period,” nothing
particular was noticed. Of course the animals were
unable to express their own feelings in language that
Dr. Blair Bell could understand. In some cases there

 




 

6
was wasting of the genital organs, in others there was
none, which looked as if the conditions depended
upon circumstances quite outside the removal of the
pituitary.

Then the whole posterior lobe was removed in one
dog. It was partially removed in another dog, then
parts of both anterior and posterior lobes were cut
away in two other dogs; then the stalk of the pituitary
body was clamped and separated in three others.

A TUMOUR 0F WAX.

Last of all, an artiﬁcial tumour was made of wax
moulded into the shape of a bun, and ﬁxed in the brain

 

 

FIG. 46.——Dog 20, 98 days after operation. showing the emaciation and
attitude of weakness caused by glycosuria due to the pressure on the
pituitary of an imitation tumour. (Photograph)

of three dogs so as to press on the pituitary body. One
of the dogs was killed an hour after it came out
of the anaesthetic, as it appeared to be in pain. But
the other two were allowed to live for 57 and
98 days respectively before being killed. The latter
showed great emaciation whilst the former grew fat.
We reproduce the illustration of the dog that lived
for 98 days after having the artiﬁcial wax tumour
ﬁxed in its brain.

Several pages are devoted to a discussion of the
contradictions among the various vivisectors who had
performed the same operations, and the points where

 

 

 




 

 

7

the author agrees or disagrees with them are carefully
detailed. He says in conclusion :

“ It is not impossible to reconcile these diverse
ﬁndings, especially if we study the difﬁculties Cushing
encountered when he attempted to make his experi-
mental results conform to his clinical observations.
Believing that reconciliation was not possible, he was
tempted to throw over his experimental results in
favour of the clinical evidence that was in conﬂict
with them.” (The italics are ours.)

This is a poor recommendation for experiments on
animals! In fact, it affords strikingly clear proofs of
the uselessness of vivisection.

The chief conclusion which Dr. Blair Bell comes to
after all these repulsive operations on the brains of
twenty-seven bitches is

that the pituitary body is an organ essential to life,

as its removal causes death in a few hours. It is

equally fatal if large portions of the anterior lobe
are cut away. But partial removal of both lobes is
not fatal. Partial removal of the anterior portion
may, if sufﬁcient quantity be removed, cause genital
atrophy. Artiﬁcial tumours in the brain “ may
produce irritation accompanied by glycosuria [sugar
in the urine] and emaciation.” The pituitary body

appears to be one organ and not two. i

It is difﬁult to see what practical result has been
obtained by all this cruelty. “ The expenses,” Dr. Blair
Bell tells his readers, “were defrayed out of a fund
placed by Mr. J. Arthur Smith at my disposal for
scientiﬁc research.” He does not say how much the
total outlay amounted to, but if Mr. J. Arthur Smith
thinks he has received value for his money, he is easily
satisﬁed.

To be told that by digging out a tiny obscure organ
at the base of the brain by means of a complicated and
dangerous operation upon the skull of a little bitch a
few months old, one can assure the death of the animal
(which is practically the only piece of positive scientiﬁc
information which has been obtained as the result of this

' extensive and elaborate exploitation of twenty—seven

sensitive and intelligent creatures) would be grotesque
and ludicrous in the eyes of every ordinary thinker
were it not so horrible and senseless. It passes com-

 




8

prehension that intelligent men can spend months and
months of valuable time in inquisitorial practices which
are doomed to failure at the very onset, and it is still
more incomprehensible that they should be allowed to
continue these practices under the sanction of a
Christian State. '

 

 

The British Union for the
Abolition of Vivisection.

F oundress :

FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

 

President and Hon. Secretary:
'WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.

Hon. Treasurer :

THE RIGHT HON. VISCOUNT HARBERTON.

Hon. Parliamentary Representative:
H. G. CHANCELLOR, ESQ., M.P.

Secretary: _ Hon. Solicitor:
MIss B. E. KIDD. E. HEYS-JONES, Esg.

Headquarters of the Union:
32, CHARING CROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON, SW. 1.

Bankers :
LLOYDs BANK, LIMITED, 16, ST. JAMES STREET, LONDON,S.VV.1.

 

 

“ABOLI’FiONIST.”

Monthly Organ of the British Union.

CONTAINING :
High-class Articles on the Moral, Scientific and Historica-
Aspects of the Anti-vivisection Question;

Replies to the Research Defence Society;

Racy Criticism of New Vivisectional “Cures”;
Chronicle of the Month’s Work, Eric.

Should be read by all Humanitarians.

Specimen Copy sent post free to any address.

YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION ($2,253,326) 3/- per annum.

 

DEVERELI., SIIARPE & GIBSON, LTD” BROMLE‘I' BUILDINcs, BREAD STREET HILL, E.C. 4.

 




