The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports,

101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

S

VOL. IX. NO. 6-

JUNE.

2 Cl MONTHLY: 2/6 per annular.
- post free.

1935.

 

 

VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR
TEN YEARs’ WORK

THE LEAGUE IN PARLIAMENT

CONTENTS.

PAGE
42

43

44

ARE HUNTING PEOPLE DELIBERATELY
CRUEL? 45

LORD LONSDALE ON HARE-COURSING 46

ON BEING AMUSED.
BY L. LIND OF HAGEBY 47

T/it Editor accept: no rapomiéi/ity for opinion: exprenoo’ in signed ortic/u.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




 

.CRUELSPORTS

 

 

Page Forty~two

June, I935

VIEWS AND NEWS .3

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Special Appeal

On another page we print a Special Appeal
for Funds, which we most warmly commend to
our supporters. The ﬁeld is illimitable and the
harvest is fast ripening, but the labourers are
few. and the funds wholly insufﬁcient to enable
us either to missionize those still outside the
pale, or gather into Branches those who are
within it. Another £1,000 a. year is needed if
we. are to effectively discharge our obligations to
the hunted, tortured children of the wild, and
we appeal for a prompt and generous response
to our Appeal.

The League in Parliament

Elsewhere in this issue we report an incident
which has brought upon the League the censure
of the House of Commons.

It is, in our opinion, unfortunate that this has
happened, for, although it may only be in con-
nection with procedure and does not involve any
principle of the League, it must, to some ex-
tent, prejudice us in the eyes of those leading
people who are sticklers for correct procedure
and whose support we so ardently desire.

The Horror of It!

The W. Somerset Free Press of March 9th
reports a run of the Quantock Staghounds on
the 28th of February, when the. hounds were
laid on to a single hind and calf, and, after a
“good” hunt of 271- hours, the hind was “accoun-
ted for.” What happened to the calf is not
stated, but one must fear the worst and that

the young creature was also a victim. The.

horror of the thought that such innocent young
life should be so ruthlessly slain should humili-
ate and spur us all to-increased devotion to the
Cause.

Stag—Hunting Passing

On April 1st Mr. Harold Worrall, deputy
Master of the Quantock ‘Staghounds, was pre-
sented with a silver horn and an album con-
taining the names of 557 of his hunting friends.
In returning thanks, Mr. Worrall referred to
stag-hunting as “ the noblest of all sports."
Without the help, he added, of Mrs. Wimbush,
the Master, it would “in all probability have
died out on the Quantocks.”

Here is a. candid admission that stag-hunting
is on its last legs in Somerset and but for the
ﬁnancial support of a rich woman, who does not

herself hunt, it would “ in all probability have
died out.”

F ox~H unting Passing Too 2’

On Saturday, March 80th, the Duke of Beau-
fort’s Foxhunt had, what we would call, an
illuminating day, for ‘covert after covert failed’
to produce a fox. So- writes the Western Press

. of April 2nd. The actual fact is that in nearly

twenty coverts drawn. they failed to ﬁnd.
“ Surrendell was the last hope,” writes the re-
porter, “and when the horn wailed its ﬁnal
message of despair there was nothing for it but
home.”

What does this mean? Simply that in what
is probably the most fox-preserved ‘country’ in
the world, the farmers and poultry-breeders are
killing off foxes in such numbers that the Hunts
cannot get runs ‘to order’ as hitherto.

Is Riding to Hounds Education?

The Teachers’ World of April 3rd asks this
question on the strength of the plea of a Leices-
tershire father who kept his boys, aged 9 and 7,
from school that riding to hounds was “ part of
their education.”

The magistrates gave the only possible answer
to the question, of course, when they ﬁned the
parent for his delinquency.

Hind Driven into the Sea

On February 21st, the Quantock Staghounds,
after what ‘Tempus Fugit’ described as “a ﬁrst-
class hunt ” of 2 hours, drove a big, old hind
into the sea at Doniford, and left her. Is not
this. a case of obvious cruelty? And. should not
the R.S.P.C.A. be expected to prosecute in
cases of the kind?

The Editor’s Claim

“ The Executive Committee call the atten-
tion of members to» a statement on page 34 of
the May issue re the AWard of the Arbitrator
respecting the Editor’s claim for compensation
which may lead to- misunderstanding. The facts
are as follows :—

“ At the Annual General Meeting in 1934,
the suggestion was made that the claim pro-
moted by Mr. Amos should be referred to arbi-
tration, the arbitrator’s decision to be taken as
ﬁnal. The meeting, and Mr. Amos, agreed to
this course being taken and a. resolution was
passed to this effect. In due course when the
arbitration was arranged and took place both
sides agreed that the Arbitrator’s decision should
be taken as ﬁnal.”

In publishing this statement the Editor de-
sires to- say that he accepts, as he always has

 

 

 




 

June, l 935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Forty—three

 

 

done, the Award of the Arbitrator as ‘ ﬁnal,’
even though, as is obvious from the facts noted
in the May Cruel Sports, it makes a victim of
him through a miscarriage of justice. He thinks
very little of the personal wrong done him and
only persists in exposing the matter because of
the principles involved, and also and this
chieﬂy—because the Award fastens an unwar-
ranted stigma upon every member of the League
to which he will be no- party. Three times the
Committee was asked to circulate a summary of
the Editor’s ‘ Statement’ to the Arbitrator to
the members, so that they should know the
facts, but each time the majority refused.
Thus the essential details have been withheld
from the overwhelming majority of the members,
and only those present at the Annual Meetings—
forming about ﬁve per cent. of the total mem-
bers—know a tithe of the facts- As the recent
Annual Meeting admitted the Editor had a
claim against the League our readers will draw
their own conclusions.

RICHMOND “ROYAL HORSE SHOW
Helpers Wanted to Distribute Leaﬂets .

We‘learn that there will be parades of different
packs of foxhounds at the Richmond (Surrey)
Royal Horse Show in the Old Deer Park on
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, June 13th, 14th
and 15th.

In connection with this feature the Executive
Committee of the League has issued a special
leaflet and the secretary would be glad to hear
from members who are willing to distribute
copies outside the Royal Horse Show on the
dates mentioned.

In addition to the above and to what has now
become the “Royal” Peterborough Foxhound
Show on June 26, hound shows are being ar-
ranged in connection with the Essex County
Show at Halstead on June. 12, at Aldershot on
July 3 and 4, and at the Yorkshire Show at
Shefﬁeld on July 11. Copies of leaflets suitable
for distribution at these Shows can be obtained
from the Secretary of the League on application.

 

 

but as the cruel practices condemned by the
League are conﬁned to country districts and the
creatures involved are ‘ wild, ” the monetary
response is not so great as for societies protect-
ing domestic animals. Therefore we do most
urgently appeal to each of our members to en-
deavour to obtain one new member during the
year and to sendus a donatiOn to help us to
lay the foundation stone of a larger humanity
which will embrace all creatures.

TEN ‘YEARS’ WORK

This League has now been at work for ten
years. It is the ﬁrst society of its kind and
since its foundation in 1925, it has done very
useful work, strengthening and widening cur-
rents of opinion which will before long, if efforts
be not relaxed, abolish cruel sport of every kind.

Branches of the League have been formed at
Bristol, Hastings, Leeds, the South-Western
Area and Southport; Working Groups at Bolton,
Brighton and Hove, Carlisle, Co-lchester, Ips-
wich and Nottingham. The League is largely
responsible for the decay of stag-hunting in the
West Country. It challenged this ancient
iniquitous “sport” by boldly organising public
meetings and demonstrations in the district and
pursued the campaign with vigour.

Thoroughly alarmed, the staghunters appealed
to “sportsmen” everywhere to defend them and
a society for the protection of all cruel sports
was inaugurated. Two years ago the League
challenged this soCiety to a public debate; the
motion against cruel sports was carried by a
large majority. The efﬁcacy of the campaign
is abundantly proved by the necessity for a
society of sportsmen to protect the tiaditional
barbarities of the English countryside.

Mention must be made of the League’s
petition against the Eton College Beagles; its
National Appeal against Stag-hunting and its
Liverpool and Southport petitions against the
bare -coursing for the Waterloo Cup, all of which
aroused public interest.

Its most recent efforts have been a letter to
all M.P.s regarding the proposed introduction of
Bills against hunting and coursing, and the call-
ing of a Liverpool Conference to discuss ways
and means of preventing the centenary of the
Waterloo Cup next February.

Nearly 100,000 cOpies of the League’s publi-
cations have been sent to leading representative
peOple throughout the country, including
teachers, preachers and social workers every-
Where.

All these activities cost money, and can no
longer be carried on in the present ofﬁces, two
very small rooms, and we shall have to take
larger premises. This will necessitate paying
more rent

In the early days several wealthy membe1s
could be relied upon to give generously when-
ever the necessity arose, but these good friends
have passed on and now the League has to
rely upon an Annual Appeal to stabilize its
income.

The Cause is a popular one; the work accom-
plished has been described as “phenomenal”

(Continued on preceding column.)

 




 

Page Forty—four

THE LEAGUE IN PARLIAMENT

M .P.s Condemn Questionnaire as “ Breach of
Privilege ”

‘.‘ The House of Commons,” writes Ernest
Jay, the Parliamentary Correspondent of The
Daily Herald, in its issue of May 15th, “ unani-
mously decided yesterday that a letter circu-
lated among M.P.s by the secretary of the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports con-
stituted a ‘gross breach of the privileges of the
house.’

“Mr. H. G. Williams (C., Croydon S.), who
raised the matter, said that the letter contained
a questionnaire asking M.P.s to state their views
on ﬁve questions.

“ His object was directed to a paragraph,
which said, ‘If we do not hear from you, we
shall feel justiﬁed in letting your constituents
know that you have no objection to blood sports.’

“ ‘ This seems to me,’ he continued, ‘ to be a.
particularly objectionable form of blackmail, and,
moreover, a gross breach of the privileges of
this House.’

“He, therefore, asked the Speaker to state
whether a prima facie case had been established.

“ The Speaker, Captain E. A. Fitzroy, said
that while it was necessary on such occasions to
point out that he was not inﬂuenced by the
subject of the letter, a prima facie case appeared
to have been made out.

“ Mr. Williams, therefore, moved that the
letter be considered a breach of privilege. When
the question was put by the Speaker there was
a general cry of ‘ Aye,’ and not a, single ‘ No.’

“No Apology”

“ Mr. Hamilton Fyfe, president of the League,

said that there was no question of an apology
being made. ‘ The whole matter and the sub-
stance .of the letter were approved by the Execu-
tive Committee, and they would stand by it.
. “ ‘. The talk about “privileges" is absurd,’ he
added. ‘ It means that we are not to ask Mem-
bers of Parliament questions that vitally, affect
thousands of people.’

“ Mr. Alasdair MacGregor, who resigned the
presidency in February, said: ‘ I should have
thought that my protests to two successive
annual meetings of the league in regard to the
same kind of thing as this circular concerned
would have been sufﬁcient warning to prevent
to-day’s incident in the House.’ ”

Comments For and Against
The New Chronicle, May 23rd:— .
Last week a good deal of publicity was given
to the efforts of the League for the Prohibition
of Cruel Sports to get members of the House of

CRUEL SPORTS

June, 1935

Commons to state where they stand as far as
legislation designed to prevent cruel sports is
concerned.- ..... was carried. It is queer
that while so many M.P.s favour revoltingly cruel
sports, they resent so strongly any attempt to get
them to make a declaration as to where they
stand.

The Sunday Observer, May 19th :—

To threaten a Member of Parliament that, if
he does not answer a detailed questionnaire, he
will be pilloried to his constituents as having
“ no objection to cruel sports,” is not exactly
the height of scrupulosity. If the authors of this
menace mean precisely what they say, they are

ready to traduce the character of persons whose

silence may be due to inadvertence or to a re-
sentment of overbearing pressure. The House
of Commons has no hesitation in pronouncing
the circular a gross breach of its own privileges.

Privileges of the Commons
The following letter was sent by the League to
the Press on May 15th:—
Sir,-—Apart from the question whether the-
‘ privilege "' claimed by M.P.s is not an anti-
quated relic of the 18th century, the denuncia-

‘

'tion by the House of Commons of the question-

naire sent out by the. League for the Prohibition
of Cruel Sports touches on a matter of vital
interest, not only to members of that League,
but to the public generally.

What received prominence in the reports of
the proceedings on May 14th was the ﬁnal para-

graph, saying the League would assume, if it
did not hear to the contrary, that M.P.s ad— -

dressed were opposed to the prohibition of the
hunting of stags, foxes, hares and otters, which
would be communicated to their constituents.
But the main purpose of the letter was to
ask whether M.P.s would support a Bill making
the cruel sports mentioned illegal. Here is a
very important subject on which large (and

rapidly growing) numbers of people hold strong

views. Is it seriously prOposed that no one shall
be allowed to enquire of M.P.s what they think
about matters of wide and pressing interest?
The League ﬁrmly claims that right and main-
tains that to invoke “privilege” in such circum-
stances is to take an entirely wrong view of the
position of the nation’s representatives in the
House of Commons. They are now paid to do
the nation’s business and no section of the nation
can be prevented from asking them questions
relevant to that purpose.

May we add that we have received already
over one hundred replies from M.P.s who were,
presumably, not in the House when the de—

nunciatory resolution was passed?

HAMILTON FYFE (President).
J. C. SHARP (Secretary).

p I F: - E5344“ i




June, 1935 '

CRUEL SPORTS

 
   

Page Forty—ﬁve

ARE HUN TING PEOPLE DELIBERA TELY CR UEL?

Summary of an Address at Southporrt on February 20th.

.BY MRS. j‘UDITH BRUNDETT TWEEDALE

“ There are people,” said Mrs. Tweedale,
‘ who write poetry like myself and who are
vealled dreamers. This appliesalso to those who
interest. themselves in other arts. This conten-
tion is true—we are dreamers, but we would not
'be without our dreams. They give to us clear
judgment a realisation of the mistakes, false
judgments and the hypocrisy of the world.

“ Now, therefore, let us ﬁrst look in the die-
tionary and get down to the true meaning of the
word ‘ sport.’ According to mine it means
“ Play or pleasure—to make mirth.” Then what
meaning has ‘Cruel’ in my dictionary? The
reply is that the word cruel means ‘inhuman
treatment. ’ Nothing could be more. explicit than
that ‘Cruel sports’ means ‘inhuman treatment
.and pleasure.’ - '

' -“ There are photographs of the hunt, and the

-‘

 

-_.-coursing of hares. Therefore, those people who

hunt or agree with hunting, those who foolishly
repeat that the fox enjoys being chased to his
doom, and those who Course or agree that it is
all right to chase a hare to death with dogs;
those who hunt the harmless otter; all these
people are thereupon admitting that they take
pleasure in the inhuman treatment of an animal.

“ There is no getting away from this, argue
as you will. They ﬁnd pleasure or mirth in
cruelty! Is not this a terrible admission in this
England—this beautifully proud country of ours?
England is miniature indeed, but. she owns rich
meadows, secluded woodlands, lovely roads and
gentle pathways, pools and rivers drift through
rcounties full of legend and history. Everywhere
in rural England the beauty of form, of texture
of structure, lattice work of twigs and blossom
upon the sky, pear shaped globes, and grass
powdered with daisies—all these fall softly upon
«our minds.

“ Now, 1 write about the countryside for
several papers, and therefore come into touch
with all sides of country life. People say to me:
‘ Is not the sight of a meet, the gathering to-
gether of the red-coated huntsmen, the graceful
and eager dogs, the children on tiny ponies, is
not all this a beautiful picture?’

“ And I reply ‘ Yes—~it is, until the fox comes
into it.’ Then—all is changed. Beauty van-
ishes; nothing butjeasjlipgessﬁremains. I am
straight! Excitement and the lust of chase,
and the end—blood on buttercups and daisies:
blood and agony deliberately caused in the pur-
suit of pleasure. Cruel sports! Remember the
meaning of those two words: ‘ Inhuman treat-
ment for. pleasure.’

( N». 2". ,3,».

1 V5?

f _, , ‘
drug Mix. .7: v: m , ,. \

“ Regarding the hunting of a stag, that is
just a dreadful nightmare for anyone who is.
sensitive to watch. I have seen stags chased for
hours on end; I have seen them jump into the
sea, and boats go out to drag the swimming
victim back to shore—to meet death after hours
and hours of agonised terror—~the hunt behind,
like ﬁends or devils, on his track.

“ I have thought how selﬁsh man is, and how
such hunting folk never use their imaginations.

“ Now I contend, therefore, that those who
are not against these things reveal themselves
utterly as cruel. They take pleasure in pain
deliberately. They take pleasure in the inhuman
treatment of an animal. They are selﬁsh—and
cowardly, too. They are unimaginative and
sensitive.

“ Then we come to the contention that foxes
must be kept down. Certainly they ‘must. I
agree. But how? What a fuss we make con-
trarywise about what we call ‘putting an animal
gently to sleep.’ We contribute to a van that
goes round gathering lost animals, that takes
them where eventually the unclaimed are put in
the lethal chamber. Yet these same people never
consider the possibility of putting unwanted foxes
to sleep without inﬂicting pain. We could shoot
them and get death Over quickly. Children who
illtreat cats and dogs are labelled as naughty.
Surely, surely, are we not utter hypocrites?
Those same children are, perhaps, blooded—_
which is a rite only ﬁt for uncivilised nations.

“ Meetings like this are arranged; people
argue, and contend about what are called contro-
versial subjects—but it all boils down to a few
points in the end.

“ Whether we accept the stigma of the truth
about ourselves, whether we realise ourselves and
our utterly selﬁsh outlook—gaining pleasure out
of pain.

“ We must ask ourselves to judge ourselves—
to ask the plain question of ourselves. The
reply of our hearts will only be known to our-
selves; but surely the English gentleman and
gentlewomm" " ' ' A ”

     
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
 




  
 
  
    
     
   
 
 
 
 
   

Page Forty-six

LORD LONSDALE ON HARE-
COURSING

Writing to Mr. A. Brisco, in reply to the
resolution of protest sent to him. by the Carlisle
meeting on February 19th, Lord Lonsdale said:

“ If you do away with coursing, hares will
still have to be kept down owing to the damage
done to crops, and you will have to resort to
snaring, steel traps and shooting for the purpose
of destroying them. .Nothing, I imagine, could
be a. more painful death than snaring, nothing
could be in a more unenviable position than a
hare in a steel trap, left until someone came to
kill it and take it out, and I have seen many
shooting hare drives where undoubtedly there
Were a lot of hares left for some minutes and
more with broken legs that are not killed on the
spot. The greyhounds, as a rule, kill their hare
instantaneously. ‘ They pick them up over the
back and the hare is dead at once. .

“I am afraid that where I am concerned I
shall continue to support coursing wherever the
hare has a very reasonable chance of escape,
and'as a rule little ‘more than half of the hares
coursed in the day are killed on some grounds. I
quite appreciate the kindly feeling existent in the
minds of your members, and beg to remain, yours
truly, , (Signed) LONSDALE.”

96 * *

The following letter by Commander Gather
appeared in the Daily Telegraph of March 1st.

Sin—Lord Lonsdal-e very .obligingly lets the
hare out of the bag. Hares, he tells us, damage
crops and must therefore be kept. down. If it
were not for coursing, we should have to resort
to snaring, steel traps and shooting, to each of
which he quite properly objects. Greyhounds,
as a rule, but not always, kill their hare instan-
taneously, while,*also as a rule, nearly half the
hares coursed escape.

We have it on Lord Lonsdale’s authority,
therefore, that the elimination of approximately
half the number of hares coursed will remove
the hare menace to agriculture. And we-know
that all hares coursed are ﬁrst caught without
injury by Lord Lonsdale and his friends.

It is therefore -vo-n on Lord Lonsdale’s
S"“‘" ' H ' ore

    

.1-
ale
~f

CRUEL SPORTS

  
 

June, 1935

British ‘ ‘Sportsmanship ’ ’

Sir,—I know Sherwood Forest and Rufford
Abbey well, and can therefore easily visualise
the gay and exciting episode enacted there-
recently when a hardpressed fox was butchered
in an underground wine cellar which was pre-
sumptu-ously intruded upon as a possible sanctu-
ary by Reynard—poor rash fool!

It seems he “ shot through the open door”
of this stately home of England, but his mad
delusion did not last many seconds. Any ﬂicker
or hope animating his labouring, pounding,
bursting heart was mighty soon dispelled. The
gallant huntsman “took the whole pack after
it, scrambling down the stone steps of the
lordly kitchen into the cellar.” The crouch-
ing fugitive was soon espied, and whoopee was.
made amongst the choice stored old vintage—a
right merry jolly scene was staged by the lusty
braves culminating in “ a hundred tatters of
brown.” The blue-blooded aristocracy were “ in
at the death,” and it is satisfactory to note how
they triumphed over the vulpine’s cowardly
manoeuvres; and once more vindicated that mags
niﬁcent thing which makes us so proud of the
utter fearlessness of the ﬂower and cream of our
race.

-—M. DUDLEY WARD in W. London. Observer.

Is C oursing C rue]?

Sir,—An article in a Sunday newspaper re-
cently, in which the writer stated that he
watched 52 hares torn to pieces by greyhounds
in "an hour or two at Bogno-r, must have come
as a shock to a good many who, like myself, had
no idea that this “ calculated, callous gala of
brutality ” still “ masqueraded in the name of
sport ” anywhere in our country. The facts
given appear incredible, but the R.S.P.C.A.
states that “ hare coursing is permitted by law.”
Even so, however, if not against the law of the
land this cruelty is against the law of human
decency, and surely something could be done
locally to rid the county of Sussex of this dis-
grace?

-——G. M. CAMFIELD in; Worthing Gazette.

Plymouth Residents Condemn Stag—Hunting

“ As regular readers, we associate ourselves
with your protest against the inhuman ‘sport’
of stag-hunting, and sincerely hope that strong
and determined action by all sports people will
soon end this cruel pastime.

Those concerned should spend their leisure in
hunting lions or similar wild animals capable
of retaliating and defending themselves when
iven the opportunity to do so.”

Daily Herald, Feb. 12.

 

 

Invw m w-

 

 




 

.. __ _._ _ keghhw

 

1 June, I935

h

Page Forty~seven

 

CRUEL SPORTS

 

ON BEING AM USED

I am convinced that the ﬁrst sign of grace
.in a human being is the inability to associate
recreation or amusement with any act which
involves the inﬂiction of suffering and death on
others. Killing for food is one thing, and killing
for amusement another. The slaughterman
serving the community which demands meat is
in a category very different to the sportsman
who does not kill to earn his living but for his
own entertainment.

I am further convinced that the whole cause
of animal protection—moral and legislative——
is kept back by ”the toleration of sports and
amusements which are the very antithesis of
civilisation. . Savagery in high places is copied
by the less exalted, who, naturally, can see no
point in abstaining from that which their
‘betters’ practise.

The truly civilized are entertained, re-created,
and amused by contact of a very different kind
with animals. They enjoy watching the habits
of wild animals; they value the friendship of
animals. When overcome by the political and
social strife of men who have lost all touch with
Nature, they go to the animals to recover peace
and common-sense.

You need not be a saint to experience the
pleasures of the companionship of animals. But
the saints and the initiates have shown a path
Which leads beyond pleasure and entertainment,
to the way of abundant life.

A glance at the history of amusement and
recreation is apt to bring despair. The antidote
is contemplation of the spiritually illuminated,
of Orpheus, Pythagoras, Plutarch, Shelley,
Thoreau, Carpenter and Manfred Kyber.

L. LIND on HAGEBY, in Progress To-Day.,

SANCTUARY

“ It gives me much pleasure when I recall
that I founded a sanctuary more than thirty
years ago, when nobody seemed to realise that
wild life had any rights at all, except to be at
the mercy of ‘ sportsmen." I feel an ever-
growing impatience with those who destroy life
for mere amusement. Nearly all birds and
beasts shun Man instinctively, and it is not a
pleasant thought to me that my fellow humans
should deserve this instinctive avoidance.

“I know only too well, from personal ex-
perience, that this shyness of bird and beast is
not of their making. In the woods that I set
apart as free entirely from so-called ‘sport’ wild
life goes on its simple, happy way, paying very
little heed to any casual visitor who goes there
to watch Nature in a friendly spirit. . . .

FRANCES, COUNTESS or WARWICK,
in “ Nature’s Quest.”

REPORTS OF MEETINGS

At the fortnightly meeting of the Brou’gh
Debating Society on January 14th, Mr. F. W.
Parrott (Kirkby Stephen) proposed the motion
“That blood sports should be abolished.” No
vote was taken.

On February 8th, the secretary gave a lantern
lecture to over 300 school children at Darlington.
The meeting was kindly arranged by Miss
Margaret Henson, the leader of the local Child-
ren’s Branch, and afterwards many children
were enrolled as members of the Branch.

On March 11th, at the Colne Grammar School,
Mr. J. L}. Stirk proposed the motion “That
hunting as a form of sport should be abolished, ”
which was carried by a majority of 11 votes.

During the past six weeks the secretary has
addressed the members of the following Co-
operative Guildsz—Charlton, Forest Gate, Ful-
ham, Hackney, Lewisham, New Eltham, New
Malden, North Camberwell and St. Pancras..
The meetings were well attended and great in-
terest was aroused in the work of the League.

DEVON: Mr. W’. H. P. Warner, the Hon. _
Secretary of the South West Branch, recently
addressed the members of the Brixham Toc H.

SAVE THE WILD SPACES

To the citizens of the future it will seem in-
credible that men and women could ever have
been so blood-lustful as to misuse their leisure
in chasing a fox to the death, harassing a stag
to a gory end, or spending an August day on
the moors. shooting at driven grouse until a
couple of thousand birds had been piled in a
lifeless heap.

Lest the deer should be disturbed or the grouse
should fail to multiply, some of the best scenery
in the country is placed out of bounds for the
walker.

On shaggy, desolate moorlands he is confron-
ted with warnings about trespassing, and in
Highland glens he may be impressed with notices
about hidden dangers and references to the
silence and carrying power of modern riﬂes and
their propensity for inﬂicting nasty wounds.

As long ago as 1888 a. Bill was introduced in
the House of Commons with the object of grant-
ing access to the mountains.

This was in truth a. modest request; no sug-
gestion of conﬁscation or of handing over the
land to the people, but merely granting the right
to walk over country which would not suffer
thereby.

But the god of prOperty is a jealous god, and
though the Bill has since been reintroduced on
several occasions, it has not yet reached the
Statute Book.

——T0M STEPHENSON in Daily Herald.

 




s:
Page Forty—eight c R u E LS P o R T 3 June, '93;

The- League For The ,Prohibition “Of Cruel TSportslﬁ;

. 10], Chandos House, Palmer Street, EWestminster, SHWl. Phone: Victoria 8496’.

President—A. HAMILTON FYFE, ESQ. Hon. Treasurerfe-CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—LC; SHARP-

' . ' _ Vice-Presidents— . . ~ ' -

LADY CLARE'ANNESLEY. ‘ ' E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Es'q.
SIR HERBERT BARKER. G, P. GOOCH, D.Litt. - HENRY W, NEVINSON, Esq.
MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit. GERALD GOULD, Esq, BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
ALD, M, CONWAY, J.P. LADY EMILY LUTYENs. EDEN PHILLPOTS, Esq.

, . (Ex-Pres., Nat. .Un. Tchers.). DONALD MACLEOD, Esq. PERCY A, SCHOLEs, Esq.
.CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). (Ex-Mbr. Brit, Olympic CL). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE,

WHAT THE. LEAGUE. STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”I ' I . 7 . . _ _ .
IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, bare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
‘ hare-coursing. (See leaflet“ Blood Sports Condemned”) , f.
‘ IT DEMANDS the substitution for the "animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”) ‘
IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ”7' of children, and demands its cessation ' (See
leaﬂet “ Blooded.” )
AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application.
We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church Group, etc., if
out-Of-pocket eXpenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also available.

JOIN THE LEAGUE

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to foin the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith“r .........

9.0‘ ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

State
whether
Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss.

‘sl- perannum includes Ofﬁcial Journal 'mont-hl}. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5. I
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary,'L.P.C.S., 101, Chandos House, Westmzmter, S.W.I.

FORM OF BEQUEST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :—

I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL Sponrs, London, the sum
of ......................... free of Legacy Duty. And, I direct that. the same shall be paza’ to the
Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue of_the Act.of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and CodiCils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two Witnesses In the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

BRIGHTON._Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880._Sewe11_ 51, Lan-
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and 0. water, gas caster Gate, London,

ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, inclu- HUMANE FUR'! (fabric).__104, GeOrge Street, W.1., Wei--
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham. 16 and beck 7257.

17. Norfolk Terrace BUDLEtGH SALTERTON, the Coastal Gem of South Devon-

. . Su erior Board Residence. Bedrooms with h. and o.
BEAUTIFUL BUTTERMERE. Victorla Golf Hotel. Season rui’ining water, varied and attractive food. Adequate
terms £4/4/-, swag balconies 10/6d. extra. (Quiet vegetarian meals if desired—Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale

periods 75 per cent.) Wormald, “ Mountway.”

- - - . ' ' ’ lve
re ald advertisements are Inserted at the rate of ltd. per word per Insertion or 2/ 661-. Der 11116,“? W0
smaiiilsgrtigns and they should be received at the office by the 15th of the month for the followmg month 8 183110.

,3».

.w , t

' d b the LEAGUE FOR. THE PBOHIBITION 0F CRUEL SPORTS, at_101. Chandos House, Palmer Stree ,
VIIiii-fitlrlriiifster,y S.W.1: and Printed for them by NUNE‘ATON NEWSPAPERS. LTD.. Bo nd Gate. Nuneaton.

 




