 

Tina Harper‘as a beaver.

Stevenses Host
Animal Lovers

Continued From E11

\

Surveying the wimsical bestiary
in her Georgetown Garden, Stevens
said “I invitedrall the people that
have done something for animals,
and animals in the 80s need mOre
help than ever.” '

, Her daughter, Christabel Gough,
meanwhile, was a bit unhappy be-
cause most people thought her white
mouse mask was a cat.

But then again, some people
thought that the mask of Sir Roger
Stevens was a bear but he insisted
the large papier mache helmet was
indeed a cat.

Among all/the otters and" beaver
and krills and even a facsimile of
Miss Piggy was Tom Beverage who
wore a simple button showing a nu-
clear anthromorphous bomb clutch-
ing a struggling person. “Let’s face
it,” said Beverage, “if you’re aware
of the nuclear threat, the most

endangered species is a human
being.” '

ya

‘ «an»:

4

 

 

        
         

 

 

 

 

 




   
 

 

   

 
    

  
    
    
 
  

(“’91 03113 e “11' Q and rejects the temp at 61101” thISj
er baquuely run- doWn South, _ _ y , g ,
even transposed her gallery of bi- ' r. . See ‘WISE E 2.“

 

1

1“ 1% ) 1
1115111

 

B J t K _ i k stew of bunmes as part of thelr race
y 1 ura e 112 c is , training “Are you an ecosystem? I

Washington Star StafﬁWriter ' .
. 1 . would have recognized yo11 a11=y-
where,” said Forkan to Janice Me11-
denhall who came as a seacape con-

sisting of form-made from Cotton

Christine Stevens wearing a little
mask' played the part of a three-leg- 11:11? seashells Seaweed and plastfic

1 ged raccoon. _ “l t d t 1 1

“You See, his tiny foot was caught wan e 0 come as a tr opica
in. a steel trap,” said Stevens, very rainforest,” continued Fork‘an, as
earnestly as She greeted guests with her seguined ears bobed but I

.1 couldn 1 get my act together- ” . 1
. 111131123111121111211 A9113?” in the .- Peter and Deborah Friedmann

“Express your support for the both Wore larger than life sandWich

mamal bird 01‘ other creature or boards of tropical ﬁsh, explaining

ecosystem you believe to be most 1n -' we drink l1ke fis h > .
Bianca Bearry was a kangaroo

need of help ‘-'—-,‘byWearinga‘ma8k,a” ' ' '1 . . 1 .
. button, a Sign: a headdress or even 113 w1thher three month old son John

full costume,’ ’read the invitation. David 31”in on her StomaCh’ tucked
‘ Well more than 100 mamal bird into a beige cordo-roy carrier. “1
etc.,lover-s did exaCtlyxthat. 1 knew I had to b11338 111111 to the

Sen. Harris-on'Willi-ams (D-NLJ.) Part3“ 331d Bearry’ 5" We Came 3”

wore a large homemade button com- package deal '* .— . ‘-

Christine Stevens is president cf
- e se tra ,nix-
‘ posed Of an ex rat d mou p the Animal Welfare Institute and is

on the board of several wildlife orga-
.nizationsﬁhe said she has always
liked animals but her consciousness
was really raised about 25 years ago
when she saw. 'her landlady in
Miami,_where husband Roger was in

 

With one handin ablack 300k and
the other a black leather glove

     

 

1‘;
111.1“,
N“ 1113

,‘ M1501“
0‘01"“
. NW}

 
 

 

a ‘nithe shape of a
“olden lion marmoset ”she said
Patricia Forkan of the Humane

Society qffAmerica, was dressed as a

rabbit and carried a placard de-
' ﬁbuncing gambling in the District 21111113311); trying to get rid 0f bunch

that Would find-J'greyhounds making ' ' ‘ 3.131361111qm/1AIﬁ 3.5 ' IChristine Stevens,

 
 

 

      

1f

 

 

—__._~_____L___.___‘.___‘_____._ _._____I._____

 

 

creep around trying not to Otalk 1
about it. Nobody 1s asking the Hard
Questions —— not even the people
who can pronounce them. Ear is »
very worried indeed. Take it away,
MaXine. Tomorrow: Far less to .
worry about. Do come back.

 

 

 

 

     
    
       
 
     
     
 
         
    
 
       
   
     
 
    
    
   
     
       
   
     
 
        
     
 
       
   
      
       
     
   
   
     
 
  

 

 

 

 

 
      
 
    

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

By David R'i e . ards

Washington Star St If Writer

Like most superachie :13 Roger Stevens
enjoys reminiscing abou the scruffiness of
the past, if only to empha ate the distance he
has traveled since then. ~

He culls an illustratio but of the Depres-
siOn -- a time, he Would have you be11eve,-.
when he slept on park benches jumped
freight trains and even "janded in jail On;
occasion for talking ir verently, if not
drunkenly, to assorted off ers of the law '

 

First of two

 

“I’ve always thought 1 it Ijhad' a first- rate
negative personality,’ he. ays with a hint of
chuckle. .3

“I remember going in} I
friend of mine, who was 3iretty outspoken,
Stevens says “He liked t spout the revolu-

really get a 101 of people _‘ pset Before long,
he was havinga loud arg in em with this guy
at the bar. I was so scagd, Iwasn’t saying
anythingjust sittingthe Well when itiap-
peared that things were
nasty, the guy at the ba Stopped, looked at
me and then turned bck to my pal and
asked, ‘Who’s your terrib'

“Stevens smiles. “I’ve at“
good example of my abili

In many ways the aneo Ite presents a mir-
ror image of the man to ' y -— a man who in-
stills foreboding in oth;s often by saying
nothing at all; a man wh: - e most demonstra-
ble skill over the years h :. been his ability to
forge business and po ical alliances of a
complexity that would .; the envy of a Chic
nese puzzle maker; a ma, who can indulge in
a kind of shambling mr testy, knowing full
well that at this stage of is life the facts will
prevail

Roger Stevens -— ma ate, gambler, i111»
pressario, Wheeler-dier, monument

 

 

 

——Washington Star Photographer Brig Cabe

builder —— is the Chan-11711 of the board of
trustees of the Kenneth . enter for the Per-
forming Arts. Even hi ' ost vehement de-
tractors —- thoSe who c l him a “cold fish”
or a "tight- -fisted Puritt‘ ” -- admit that the
Center would not be the ,were it not for his
vision and sheer doggeo ess.

More than any single rson, Stevens is re-
sponsible for reshaping he cultural map of
Washington transform g a Southern back
water into a major ‘ tistic crossroads,

Comden & Green
open ‘A Party’
at the Terrace

second only to New York. In the dark days
before the Kennedy Center, the world’ s
principal arts-companies avoided Washing-
ton altogether, since playing here meant
playing either cavernous Constitution Hall
or c1 amped Lisner Auditorium, neither espe-
cially attractive or well- equipped

With its three major halls, the Center
offers the latest in stage technology, near-
flawless acoustics and, no small drawing
card, backstage creature comforts that bor-
der on the princely. It also offers a large,
cosmopolitan audience and the very real
promise that the president may come calling,
an event that automatically generates free
nation-wide publicity. As a result, the'Center
can and does attract some of the finest artis-
tic talent ~*——- fromLa Scala to the Berlin Phil-
harmonic, from the Grand Kabuki of Japan
to the latest Broadway show.

Because Washington is the seat of influ-
ence and appropriations, Stevens’ impact has
been national. As early as 1964, he was ar-
guing the case for a national cultural center
before Congress (which was sometimes dubi-
ous), big business (uninterested) and the
arts establishment (suspicious). That he
eventually reconciled all three groups and
got the Center built prompts one friend-to
say that Stevens could forge an alliance
“among a snake, a mongoose and Eve.”

Everything about the Center —— from its
proposed site to its rapidly escalating cost —-
Was matter for contention. “Roger was like a
dog with a bone,” says a long-time Washing-
tonian. “He just wouldn’t let go. I don’t know
anyone who could have carried through the
way he did.” The emotionally-charged open-
ing of the Center in 1971 was as much a trib-
ute to Stevens” negotiating skills, asit was to
Kennedy’s memory.

Some critics may carp about the edifice, its
location, its prices and its fare. In some artis-
tic circles, Stevens continues to be viewed as
‘a very successful businessman, who has no
point of View in the theater, will never have
a point of view and is probably incapable of
having a point of view,” as one observer puts
. t .

No matter Stevens has success on his s1de
Audiences want in. (Attendance at the Cent?
ter runs at an astonishingly high 82 percent
of capacity).._Producers, including those who ‘
snipe behind his back, want in. Even Presi4 '
dent Carter has taken to visiting the place
with flattering regularity. “Whatever any-3
one says, the Center works,” beams Stevens,
always the pragmatist. . 3 » . .

At first glance, or even second, he appears
to be an utterly improbable figure to head
the country’s only national cultural center.
If he were to act in plays, instead of produce;
them, he would have been type cast long ago
as the absent-minded professor, preferably
on a midwestern campus. Tall, bald, and still
ingenuously blue- eyed at 68,- he plods
through the world with a look of preoccupa-
tion onhis face that suggests more than a " VI-
passing kinship with one of Aesop’ s turtles. _

Oblivious to fashiOn, he dresses as if out Of
an old clothes hamper. Summers, he has
been Spotted in Hawaiian shirts, rivaling in
violence those of the tourists who throng the
Center After he had a heart attack several
years ago, his doctor counseled him to keep;__
his head warm. Stevensimmediately took to
wearing a bright red knit cap, with a‘pomé
porn on top. During his morning walks
through Georgetown, his one regular Con-
cession to exercise, he locks startlingly like
the world’s oldest kid. ; _

Often Stevens will pass friends Without so"
much as a nod, a slight that most of them
now attribute to the fact that he is invariably
pondering four or five problems at the same
time. (i‘I’ve never purposefully ignored a
good-looking woman in my life, he jokes.)
He has an admittedly rotten memory for
names and faces When Arthur Miller s “The
Archbishop’s Ceiling” was playingin the
Eisenhower, Stevens referred to it regularly”
as “The Archbishop’s Cathedral. Recently,
he boasted that “Every Good Boy Deserves
Favour” was one of the crowning achieve
ments of the Kennedy Center, and then
characteristically couldn’t remember which
Previn wrote the music —- Andre or Dory.

See STEVENS,’ 13-2

Norman COrWin,

I

By David Richards
Washington Star Staff Writer» I I
Betty Comden and Adolph Green, “who
have been supplying Broadway perform!
(:13 w1thlmes and lyr1cs for four decades

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

r,
’\

STEVENS I

0-3...

r.

1 .

SeveralCenter staff members refer to him as
“The GreatStoneface” or “The Mumbler.” Indeed,
so‘marked is his habit of talking into, his chin, or
One of his thin, drab ties, that some observers con-
strue it as a conscious tactic. In the buzz of half-
articulated words, Stevens slips through the net. .
He knows exactly what he is doing and how he’s
doing it, even if he gives the impressionthat he
has just reeled out of a game of Blind Man’s Buff.

“I’m supposed to‘be very intuitive about people,
which is why I can put so manydeals together,” he -
says. “I guess I know wnen to push and when not
to push, when to listen and when to talk. I’ve cer-
tainly never had any lack of confidence in my
ability to make a deal. But that’s-really the best of
it. For the rest, well, I’m not very bright. I’m a bad
businessman. Ihave no desire to make money. I
have'enough and all I’ve seen is trouble if you
have more. I get bored buying and selling and sav-
ing a d011ar here and there. I am really much more
of a bohemian by nature.” ’ .

Not many people would describe Stevens as a
man of bohemia. Instead, most find him an
enigma, although what they perceive as his aloof,
diffident facade is prompted as much by his natu-
ral shyness as by anything else. , .

“Someone once compared him to an ancient
ROman,” says 'Stevens’ wife, Christine. “1 think
there’s an element of that. In other words, stoi-
cism is a large part of’Roger’s character. He ac-
tively refrains from whining and he can’t abide
complainers-He’s a very persistent man. During
the height of the Depression, Roger was working
on the assembly line of the Ford Motor Company.
His job was to take a gear off a belt and hold it up
to a rotating wire brush to remove the burrs. This
was the time of the. famous speed-ups and before
long the brush had rubbed his hands raw. But he
was supporting his whole family then and Was
determined to hold onto, the job. Two weeks later,

he was fired. in a general lay-off. He’s often said
theexperience had a great deal to do with his
changing from a Republican to a Democrat.”
Playwright Arthur Kopit, who was a student at
Harvard when he was first befriended by Stevens,
tells this story: “Years ago, I was in New York to go
egofthe theater and I dropped by. to see Roger in his
qufice one afternoon. He drank then and as we
‘_;)}.'ere going out of the building, he remembered
that he had just bought a restaurant called
ﬁR'ubens. ‘Let’s go see what it’s like,’ he said. Once
fliere, he announced, ‘The only drinker is a prohi-
lhijtion drinker,’ which I took ‘to be fighting words.
jj.‘g.;f~‘.Three double-martinis later, we pushed
ithgrough the revolving door somehow, weaved out
.jentothe street‘and tried to hail a taxi. There were
{nbne in sight and Roger was growing visibly impa-
Tight. Finally, he turned to me and said, ‘That’s the

ble with Philadelphia. You can neVer get a
if gg‘iWhenyou need one.”’ , .

:{LqRich‘mond Crinkley, who was Stevens’ assistant
‘2 1'- three years before recently becoming the

"eiffécutive director of the Vivian Beaumont Thea-

    

are

 

I
..'
I,

e

s
\z
,.

n‘lq ”Tl

If

k

v

;_ far in New York, also associates Stevens with mo-
Alf-ion. “One day, we were walking down 45th St. on
fpurway to Sardi’s when» this fire truck came ca-
jgégeening down'the Street. The sirens were wailing
and it was weaving in and out the traffic at top
speed. Roger stopped dead in his tracks and said,

. ‘LOOk at that thing go, will you!’ I mean, he was full

{of admiration. . . .

f “I really think activity is an absolute necessity

‘ for Roger. The most interesting and fruitful times
. I spent with him were not the times he was in his
'. office or in a theater, but the times he was in a taxi
_ or an airplane or walking down the street, going
somewhere. Getting from A to B is-Ireally what

, Roger is all about.”

r~
i «.
.,.4

Whitehead,"
,f- .prod ucingtfaor, the "past 25 years.» “There’s age-very

civilized quality th‘aﬁgicome$fr0m ‘a- conservative

ﬂ ..
I!) ~

”upbringingtﬁﬁe has adeep "respect for beanty and“

: art and a strong sense of social respéhSIbility.
Along With that is this‘old time American gam-
bler. Most of us feel nferve-wrackedgwwhen the
money dwindles. But ROger just sees money as a
means to an end. He has no fear of it. In fact, he’s
even-got a sense of humor about it thatis rather
marvelous. His attitude is, ‘Don’t worry. There’s ~
plenty lying around.’ If you’re an old frontier gam-
bler, the theater is a great place to be, because it’s
one helluva gamble.” . .

Stevens’ gambling streak surfaced early. As,a
teenager, he kept himself in pocket money by tak-
ing on his friends at bridge, poker and blackjack,
and winning. The aesthetic concerns didn’t
develop until he had dropped out of school and
was discovering that the world could be a bleak
place. _ . .

His life isn’t so much a rags-to—riches- saga, as it ~

- is a riches-to-rags-to-riches story. The son of a well-

to-do real estate broker, Roger Stevens was born in
Detroit in 1910 and seemed destined for the tradi-
tional Ivy League grooming. He muddled his way
through Choate preparatory school and had been
accepted for admission to Harvard University,

The waShlnglOIl Star . Monday, February 5, I979 ’

Continued fr0m D-l, '

“Roger’s ,ae‘rnixtureiof tWo things,” says Robert. ,

’v’StevenS’r partner. kin icomm‘féiricia-l .I‘Irlifiiiley nowhewasgoingtotak

 

’- 3111‘: . "1':

How‘s this for a

, ‘ dinner-time bargain? In the

warm, comfortable atmosphere Of a

Sir Walter Raleigh Inn, you can enjoy lean,

tender slices of well-aged boneless prime

rib served with fresh, creamy horseradish

sauce, a big, baked potato laden with sour ‘
'9 ‘1 ' .’ cream or butter, hot, crusty bread. and all
the fresh, green salad that you can eat
from our salad bar. Just $5.95. Monday

V through Thursday, dinner only.

 

i . GEORGETOWN 3331000
COLLEGE PARK 474.6500 .
FALLS CHURCH 560-6767 . ,
- = EILICO’ITCI'IY 301-465-0142
. mom 765-1141
’ f g BETHESDA 652-4244

s an s; .‘Ql.;r,1|'§'_fs.jl ‘);-¢ '-~e “ "

    

  

I I. {A {n.yr I‘d".

 

 

 

 

Roger Ste vens

I when the gathering Depression wiped out his fa-

ther’s fortune. ‘ . .
Instead Stevens went to the UniverSLty of Michi-

, gan at Ann Arbor where the family lived. He

lasted a yearand quit at age 19. For the next five
years,'he knocked around Michigan, collecting

, some of the Depression stories he likes to drop

into the conversation. Eventually, he found work

as a real-estate broker during the day, and as a gas

station attendent at night. Selling real-estate

brought him nothing for the first sixmonths;
pumping gas brought him $12 a week. (“Even

then,” says Christine, “Roger was so preoccupied
that he often forgot to put the cap back on the cus-

tomer’s gas tank.”) . J

During this period, Stevens discovered books, a
passion which has not deserted him and which
prompts him to observe, “If I were a bit younger, I
think I’d buy a publishing house: More interesting -
than theater. Books last.” (He is a directOr of. Far-
rar, Strauss & Giroux, and from 197075 was chair-
man of the advisory committee for the National
Book Awards.) , .

He read voraciously, sometimes as many as five
classics a week, discovering in the’process Joyce
and Proust (his favorite novelists) and Pirandello
(his favorite playwright). To this day, Stevens con-
tinues to read as much as his schedule will allow.

,“I’ll bet,” he said, taking time from a recent lunch

at the Sans Souci to gaze at the crowd of rich and
powerful diners, “that I’ve read more books of all
kinds-in the last six months than anyone else in
thisroom.” '

Stevens denies that reading has been a compen-
sation for the university education he never had.
“I just liked to read then and I likefto read now,”
he says. Still, he lets it slip that “Eisenhower used

' to tell everybody to address me as Dr. Stevens. He

assumed Ihad at least a PhD.”

As the Depression began to abate, Stevens re-
vealed the business acumen that would make him
one of the two most powerful real estate men in
the country in the mid-19508. Trading in underval-
ued apartment houses and hotels, he had acquired
by 1937 a nest egg of $50,000, a yearly income of
$25,000 and a wife, the former Christine Gesell. .

“My father was always saying when he had

dolthis and that. And hein’ever dili, Stevens recalls."

. “Soafter-Christine and I-Vgot married, we spent .

$10,000 for a six-month tour around the world. The
World has never been the same since.”

It was only after World War II that Stevens be-
came a double threat, however -- first as a real es-
tate tycoon, then as a Broadway producer. The,
producer launched a variety of hits -— and misses.
The tycoon bought and sold hotels and office
buildings and developed commercial centers, as if
the whole ‘country were his private. Monopoly
board.‘ln 1951, he headed a Syndicate that acquired
the Empire State Building for $51.1 million, then
the highest price ever paid for a building. “I de-

.‘ nue”). _ .
«.-'-"“Everything we did was wrong,” Stevens re- ~
cells. We opened in the spring and there was no

‘ f A ' A b»
l- - ‘ A:

'v.
,; .

'_j'deal-c105ér'in the country,” Stevens boasts now.

_Steven{s’ reputation} as a. producer developed
somew'hat slower than that as a real estate tycoon
__ although eventually: he would would have as
many as 10 shows a season on Broadway. (“That’s
- more'thah Merrick ever had,” he can’t help'noté
ing.)_..His9gfirst prOduction was hardly a sure bet:
jSh‘akeSpeare’s “Twelfth Night,” as staged by the
Any-nilArbq'r Drama FeStival. Stevens took it to New
‘,York in, 1949, had the satisfaCtion of getting an en-
couraging natice from Brooks Atkinson, and then
' ~PT0mptly108t$45000 ongthe six-week run. “I didn’t
know that if you’regoing to do a revival, you have
- to have a big name in it,” Stevens explains. He has
since made the observation an ironclad principle
. at the-Kennedy Center. . . ' ' -

He hit paydirt the follOWing year with a musical
versmn of “Peter Pan,” starring Boris Karloff and
_ Jean Arthur, with. music by Leonard Bernstein,

.-‘,Who would figure both prominently in Stevens’

theatrical career. (“West Side Story,” f‘Mass”) and ,
not so prominently (“1600 Pennsylvania Ave-

air-c‘ondi'tioning. our break-even point was 80 per;
cent of our gross. The thing is, it was a helluva a
good show. Incidentally, it ha‘d‘the first integrated
chorus line on Broadway. People told me it got

< much more applause on opening night than ‘South

Pale193You hear that kind of applause five or six
times 111 alife. I can tell you it’s quite a thrill.”

For the next two decades, Stevens would pursue
that thrill with a vengeance -— as financial advi-
sort tothje prestigious Playwrights’ Company,
Wthh. he says, gave him his theatrical education;
as a bpard member of ANTA; and as one of the
f0und1ng.;members (with Robert Whitehead and
Robert Dpwling) of the Producers’ Theater. Al-
though he' has never been, one to cut his partners
out of a production, Stevens is also not one to put
off a production if his partners demur. Hence, his
multiple. alliances. Today, he continues to produce
independently of the Kennedy Center, both by
himself. and in Conjunction with Whitehead.
“Roger isn’t happy, unless he’s gotfive projects
gOIng all at once,” remarks a friend.

- Stevensiis proud Of his producing record during
the 19503 and early 19603 and sometimes will imply
that no one else contributed anything of worth
during that time. He does have a list of distin-
guished, if not always profitable, shows. Among
them: “Tlfe‘ Fourposter,” “Ondine,” “The Golden
Apple,” “The Confidential Clerk,” “Tigerat'the

- Gates,” “Siaparate Tables,” “Bus Stop,” “Waltz of .

the Toreaﬁdors,” “Under Milkwood,” “The Visit,”

“The BestiMan,” “Oh Dad, Poor Dad,” and “A Man

for All, Seasons.” ' l
“‘Of course, when you’re producing as many

shows asiRoger did baCk then,” says a rival

producer,i“you’re bound to have a number of hits.
It’s thela 4‘ of averages. But don’t forget the other.
side: that toge‘r has had more flops inthe theater
than just bout anyone else, living or dead.” Lest
one be Oerrlymesmerized by the quality of his
productions, Stevens is also the gentleman who
brought oadway “Under the Yum Yum Tree,”
“Everybo Loves Opal” and “A Hole in the Head.”

As if t-I-‘ater and real-estate were not suffi-‘
ciently ti lie-consuming, Stevens, with his reputa-
tion as a hack money-raiser, found himself drift-
ing into t Ill: world of politics. A political liberal, he
was espeeja'ally intrigued by Adlai Stevenson and
for the Cuiagpaign of 1956, Stevens served as chair-
man of tI‘I- Democratic Finance Committee. “I

..

went intoiiaolitics out of curiosity,” he says ﬂatly.
“I wanted‘ro see how the inside worked. . . I~ found
,, Stevens Was acquiring the kind of
first-nan or; xperience that would prove invaluable
to him ajlithe head of the Kennedy “Center. A,

           

.sle bases covered. When President,
Kennedy Went looking for a general trOuble-

me on trips’and. shooterfor a proposed national cultural center,

. :Steve‘nieai» rpe natural. man for the jOb.

“1 somainies look back on the 19503,” says? ‘

Stevens,“,llad wonder how the hell I did it all. I
was maki fr; realeState deals in almost every city
in the co it. try, producing at least five plays each
year on Ef'voadway and raising money for the
Democrat; party. Well, I always said I could have
done two a t of three well, but not all three.”
Steven’f Whom the English press once called
The Skyssa aperKing, would give up real estate,
.move to "Ti-shingtonand take on what many be-
lieve‘wasgne biggest challenge of his career.

 

. Next: Atthe KenCen

' Graffman demonstrate This virtuosity

By James Backas
Special to The'Washington Star

' Bach’s Chaconne as originally written for unac-
companied violin is music that-threatens to burst

~ theform that contains it. Busoni tamed it consid-

erably by transcribing it for piano, and although

' the architectural grandeur of the music remains .

in Busoni’s romantic, and loving, conception, it is
less stark and lessawesome than the original
work and, for me, is somewhat diminished by
being so fully realized. , .

Gary Graffman began his Kennedy Center reci-

tal Saturday night with this difficult piece, with a .

portentous reading that attended too little to the
music’s rhythmic and linear energy, and too much
to Busoni’s added resonance and tothe perform-
er’s flying fingers. ‘ .

It is difficult to‘assess this very successful pian-
ist. Graffman has fingers that rival anyone’s for
speed and precision, and his ability to control sub-
tle dynamic shadings, and to bring out- mood and
color, is impressive, but this was less than a satis-
fying recital. He was at his best in Debussy’s “Es-
tampes,” where his superbly controlled technique

and velVéin tone served the music well, and. in .
Haydn’s ‘af‘tic and graceful Sonata in, G majOr, Hob.
XVI. No-5,, music for which hisspecial talents
seemed of; fectly suited. ‘-

But thgi major'piecesscheduled by Graffman,
Schubertsj;‘.“The Wanderer” Fantasy and Beethov-
en’s “APE-‘SSIOnata” Sonata, were not always in
control aid his conception of these noble works
seemed s ,ght, almost too comfortable. “

‘ Perhag; “The Wanderer” falls just short of
being the? tatement it strives so mightily and ear
nestly to ﬁe. It has excesses, it does wander, it may
be a worvi‘f thatis, itself somewhat out of control.
But Grafjj Ian’sfai-lure with this errant giant was
not so In lch his inability to shape and c0ntrol its

. tumult, but rather his success in diminishing it to

. . surface I filliance.‘

. This ii", hubert’s only work for piano that'de-
mands 'le raordinary virtuosity. Graffman’s huge
techniqu, Was obviously equal to those demands,

but he se med to be satisfied with stopping there.
The “. passionata” too appeared to be reduced
in size ajd weight, its authority and structural
might "p sed over to accommodate Graffman’s

. ,blindingnpeed. <
I.

 

Iveloped .sbmething of a reputation as the greatest

, 5 SPECIAL

:f ‘INCLUDES

 

     

 

 

 

 

' e

ASTIG/clATlSM a
, , . ' CORRECTION g
CONTACT

LENSES

museEFOMBO‘

 

 

     

CONTACT LENS
(Phemecol)

' ”SOFLENS”

(polymacon)
CONTACT LENS

$99.-

A softlens Is now
Available For The
Correction Of Higher
Ranges Of
Astigmatism. If You
Couldn’t Wear So'ftle'ns l
Due To Astigmatism , I
The Dura Soft IT Is
Now Available.

SIGNER
OPTICAL

INCLUDES
. EXAMINATION .
LAKEFOREST MALL + KIT. . . ‘ l

GAITHERSBURG, MD. 3 f
(301) 840-1773 , 2 59 .

KIT

(EXAM SIS)

 

s.
U

I5 .

2

O

U

 

 

us

0 E

‘0 a

3 x

13‘4”"

5." +
.4

 

- PRESCRIPTIONSFI
- DESIGNER LINE
FRAMES

0 ALL DISCOUNT
PRICES

EFFECTIVE DEC. 25, 1978

LLED

 

I644 K ST.- NW.
WASHINGTON, o.c.

'- (202) 467-6336

   

 

 

 

 

0N * ‘ "a
. you can use. ~ A
Every class, you learn sOmethlng new; something {you
can use that very day to help you; look your best, aCti
your best, feel your best. Here, you don’t memorIze a
bunch of theories. _ ‘ . .. “
You learn solid ideas, '

that make a big f
difference in your life.

WHY POWERS?

0 SmallClasses—-—
Individual AttentiOn _
0 College Educated Teachers 7
.00ur49thvear— .
our 27th in DC ‘ . .
”'0 Your receive the same training
as the famous Powers Girls .
receive in our New York School ,
0 Our reputation assures you of
Success

9 For—Career Women—-
Homemakers—Teens

.3, II .1539
" ‘- J .

 

- SELF-IMPROVEMENT
. INTERIOR DESIGN: -
, o EASIIIOII TRAINING

 

CALL OR WRITE FOR FREE INFORMATION

ARLINGTON, VA. BETHESDA, MD. LANDOVER MALL
1800 N. Kent, Rosslyn 4606 East-West Hwy. South Office Bldg. '

525-9595 ' 652-731 I 322-1500

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

   

 

 

  

      

 

7(7‘M1EATON 946-5596

. ,'. -. .‘ ' A. . , .
~ I. .9 I". . - . _ . '3.
. .' . “r . ' ; '. . . .
:l' I . I
- l l T . . . .- T‘
:_ I ' ‘ ‘ . . ' ’ .-
.' .I I ‘ :- ‘ "A . < , _ . ' '1 <‘ ' , ‘ .
._‘_ _ ' 3: , V. , .I- ' . , ' A, -
. . _ I- -: . . ~ .

’.
91+

  

Sir'Walt

71'.-
vi.

     

  
 

NOTICE ’
TO FORMER EMPLO YEES
of ROBERT HALL .

The Retail Clerks International Union with the au-
thorization of its local unions has negotiated a set-
flemenf in the Robert Hall bankruptc proceeding
for any employee of the company at f a time of its
closing who had collective bargaining contract
claims againsf‘fhe company. ‘ .

These claims include claims for unpaid vacation
(third and fourth week), holidays, sick leave, sever-
ance pay (where provided for in the contract), and
personal days. In order to be eligible to receive
money to be distributed from this. fund, you must
have been an employee of Robert Hallaf the time
of its closing, the contract must have provided for
the particular item that you are’claiming and the
company must have owed you money for'fhe par-
ticular item that you are claiming. _ '

If you meet these requirements, you should Con-
tact the local union office and obtain from them a
Robert Hall claims questionnaire which you must

. complete in full, under oath, and return to the local 7
union office as soon as possible. All claims must be .
received by the local union on or before March 31,
I979, in order for‘you to be eligible for disfribuinn
of‘fhe settlement proceeds. '

RETAILCLERKS

Robert Hall Distribution.Committee _
Thomas'R. McNuff, RSEU local 440, chairman

           
           

 
 

     
      

INTERNATIONAL UNION

" ‘ ‘wslcmwATcIIERn

PR BITS
A , ZINC-
" GI'IT- + ,

to is DEVICI-f  

 

  

 

   

  

‘—

We'll ShOl/l yOu how shopping
‘ f0.1” fQOddffferently can make ‘
a differential in your eating habits. ,
_ 1 It's part lofourunique Behavior Modification

method 4-3511 effective wayto lose weight by learning
' how to outsmart temptationwhether you're shopping,
at homeo‘} afa party Or when you’re bored or

under stress”. Soljoin a Weight Watcher's® meeting now.

(a, :-, .
l ..

lGeta head start ﬁreman: - f

A, ~ . on losing weight. . ,
~ * i. The Authority

. ® YOU'RE TI-IISCLOSETO LOSING-WEIGHT.

IN MARYLAND soc " IN NORTHERN VA.

' ‘WEIGHT .mrcnensrnb-Q NTIE REGISTERED'T‘RADENARKS 0F WEIGHT WATCHERS

 

 

INTEIInmIoNAL. me, MANHASSET, NJ. ‘WEIGHTWATCHERS IIITERNATIONAL, I979 f

1‘

’ CALL77o-4115- CALL 532-2960

 

THE STUDIO

Miniatures .
COpied from
your treasured
family photos

Sale 6.00

Reg. 12.00. Gather up
your favoritesand bring
them to the Studio. For a
limited time, we’ll make
3% x4l/4‘” black/white
* copies of them for iuSl
6.00 each. Restoration
services also specially
priced. Your original
returned unharmed.
The Studio: Washington,
3rd Floor North'Building,
Mon. to Sat. l0 a.m. to
6 p. m., Chevy Chase,
7 Corners, Tysons Corner,
Landover Mall, lverson
Mall and Wheaton Plaza, .
Mon. to Sat. IO a.m. to ' ' .
6 p.m.;_ Thurs. (til 9 p. m. '

 

Meet Ms. Irena Torres,
ou‘r roving expert in copy
, and restoration, from I0 a.m. .
to 6 pm. Feb. 6-10 at
lower level Studio,
lverson Mall. Feb. 13-17

at Landmark.

.a

 

' v

‘ ,Jl‘évi’.‘ .

 

3‘42: 46 IE 'I
l

 

 

l ’r
a- award xv.

..DWARD| LOTH R. P . ’

 




MW
0 Ir 2/,” “l‘%
x \' .

 




 

INN§MR§ §\\m§\
k?
.N\. ignm M&&

1 E . i
Xﬁﬁmgymwx ﬁgxgséx

mécm géﬁx‘xgﬁ @Nxd

 

 




AWﬁmW/ akwéﬂ ﬂan/W
476% XML M Mm MM’zz
\ C

(am/5m Wﬁiw ﬁoM/MZS‘

fﬁ/lv/zmjz'rw ﬁb/ﬁlﬂy ' 7%”.

afﬁx/k ma cit/Z; 0742; £06

72; w ‘ Maé 7%m mﬂL

/m/:Z:/7 Mada. W

A/é/Jid w Maﬁa 714W

7: [4 5[7%SW/5 wa>%

at» ”/Wém' ,

Ami; WI/M 55 ° *W
7%(97/ $41, j/Iarzw j “764/

/5 a M W MW

UMM W% Zwﬂaah
5%)me “4- , . I

M. jam/x: — arm/W W/W

 




AgwxW/a (Mama
[/WJa/Z (fa/ZN“, 7% M M I

.722 art/#4251,» &/% {25M 4
(WW/ 02/de ﬂow/040%

/'\/
Mr, W{ 70/“, d Aa/ﬂ (ﬁzz/b

dw/ 7444/)QM/
(mice? “1 @W‘

 




 / \ "” , “/N ~
?‘\*@“£”W§ W“? M w/
:M VET/£7): WW ggfﬁ ) #__ (\~/)
, (—(K [m ///// ‘1-““l gf/
)AV/ff C;:s M . , ‘ MU/ﬁ/ // Z//
k .I
x K” W " ’

/2‘§Q W /
Ski J1

%

W
{Q \

%

 

 




@Z ﬂmfmw?
% W

WWW M W Z/W/fj

77/ fﬂjéé
M “W457 7/ 77/
772%”

MW .7
Maﬁa

4777

MW

6;!” W~
&
4 (9 2

Z fia W7;
m

far 77/
M My; @M

 




 




 




AbA !:Tact

The rights of animals as expreAsed in U.S. law are pre-
sented with diseuAAiou of state laws, acts of Congress, and
emurt action reAmlting therAfrom. AA iistingﬂef pending bills‘
is ineladeﬁ and contreveTAiai ArAAA inwhieh'na final deciSions
have yet crystallized into lAgal fon are summarized.‘ Rights
well defined in 1aw<A1thAugh not every right applies to every
graup 0f animelé?bAgin with: I} TAA right of species to exist,
EHdaﬂA@f6Q Speeﬁes ATA DYﬁt££L9d agawnqt killing and the law
eails for p?€ﬁ€f““t10ﬂ of Aritiaal habitat. 2) ThA right  0£
individual animalg AAprmtAAtiAn.agAimstgcrnelty,torture;

arment AAA HFHD"”UAUUV killimg'armutiiation.« 3) The rlght
'tA;needAA fa AwﬁeAAAAhAiteT which cannnt be abrogated
A _M_ . . V p i
1AA abjnﬁAz HéﬁéﬂﬂJﬁﬁuPVt_ﬁﬂim&lﬁy A) ”The,right to a.paiﬂless

Aath,v T; AVEVi735;°- "TTH‘ tA Adln Tellev1ng irugs.: 6) The

ripht t0‘AAfetzngpArtL 5} The ght to plotectlon from sadls-

‘tia :xplthataen 1n anxmdl H htixg Ventures. FFallure of U S
-' .. ~ A'3
law t0 mandate all has

 




Although the rights of animals are not universally recog-
nized, the fact that they exist has become an accepted tOpic
for dichssion. The laws of no country reflects them fully,
but the accelerating interest in legislation for the welfare
and protection of animals in the United States is a heartening
phenomenon ofithe past twenty years. iScarcely a torrent, not
'even a river, the movement might better be likened to a small
stream making its way around 1mmovable boulders in its path,
but being fed by new springs along the way '

Ihe largest of these new Seurces of strength is concern

for the env1ronment as a wholeJ.: All but the extremely bigotted

4&95h; or pitifully ignorant now reali ze that, to use an outmoded

[phraSe, man and beast are all in one boat together. The next
“logical step is to dec1de to treat one another as decently as
possible, and leg1slat10n, both passed and p ending is at an
all time high in th1s country to rect ify long-standing injus—
tices against_our fellow mammals, birds, and, through the En-
dangered Species Act, all creatures.

’“ The first federal law aimed at preventing extinction of
mammals, birds, reptiles, fish, amphibians, arthrOpods, crusta-
ceans, mollusks and other invertebrates was enacted in 1966.

It was followed in 1969 by a law prohibiting importation of en-

dangered species from outside the United States, and in 1973
these two laws were combined, broadened, strengthened and brotii;

AintO‘conformance with the Convention on lnternation Trade in Enm

dangered and Threatened Species of Fauna and Flora. Maximum

penalties are a $20,000 fine and/or a year in prison.

 




The Endangered Species Act (Public Law 93-205) deals with the _

right of animals to be protected against genocide. Homo sapiens,
the most destructive of the species so far to have evolved, appears
to be the only one in need of legislation to prevent him from per-
secuting Others to the point bf total extirpation whether by in-
tent1onal kill1ng, secondary poisoning, or drastic exploitation
of natural habitats on which other species depend for survival.
Although P. L. 93-10% 11 net perfect leg1slation and its enforce-
,ment to date has been far from perfect, it is, nevertheless, the
strangest such law in existence. "were similar laws in effect andh
firmlvpenforeed in all nations, modern man'sreCOrd of speeding up;
“extinc ti o1 of an mal species could be reversed I The Secretary of
e.Interior in opening the international conference on endangered
Species Fdhruary 12, 1973psaid, ”The ra te of extinction has been
on tt1e rise diamatic lly. Of the yrHecorded ext1nct10ns of mammals‘
ever the  last 2, 000 years, fully half have met their final fate.
within the last 60 vears s.5"It is sad to acknowledge to ourselves
that during the l0 years we have been preparing for this meeting,-
perhaps 8 percent of all recorded mammal extinctions have taken
place." H 5‘ . ‘
Genetic rights of the species only peripherally address the
rights of individual a nimals.' Thee xpres sion of such rights in

American legislat1on first  appeared in 1641 when the Puritans of

the Massachusett Bey Colony published "The Body of Libertie
whiCh included a proh1b1t1on aga1nst cruelty to animals, spe g 1c+

“tatlne' f "We mwn shall exerc1se any l1rrany or Cruelti 1e

towards env‘brnite ( reature which are usuallle  kept  for man 5 Use.'

 




'This briefly stated concept essentially embodies the intent of the
'fifty anti-cruelty laws which were individually passed between

“1828 and 1913 by each state in the union.

The state anti- -cruelty laws- are generally similar but not idenm
.ﬁgtical subst of them apply to all animals and some make it a point
to speci3y "any living creature whether wild or tame." ’Most make
it a criminal offense to torture, torment, deprive of necessary sus~

tenanCe or shelter or needlessly mutilate or kill any animal. Pen#"'

33<alt1es vary from as little as $50 up to Sl, 000 and a year in jail

in more recently rev1sed statutes.v These laws breadly establiwl

, 3!“:
4;“'

.the rights of animals to protection irom.cruel treatment and Edi
owned animals the right to wholesome  food and water, to shelter

,from the elements, and the right not to be abandoned to fend fur

themselves.

wAbandonment applies peculiarly to*domestic animals or captive

bred wild animals unable to return toinature.* Here the rights of

.l"+

animals must take accOunt of the dependency human beings have creatw
ed. We cannot "freeﬁﬂ a dog as Leonardo da Vinci used to buy and

free wild songbirds f rom the market. To be free of a cruel master
s'
the dog must rUn away himself or be seized by a societV for the

prevention of cruelty to ;nimal , ch3rging the owner with.a viola“

“Vii“ .

tion of law. Such a dogzmas only a¢slim chance of being adopted

yaome. This brings us to another animal right seamed“

. 4?”: , ,
:3?” ivy: .. ' 144.4 Jug»

est as to seem neﬁright at all to those unfamiliar with animal weém

*ﬂgeathgfree ﬁrom pain oryfea tie

‘ :5?

’ 5W; .
' "2-4" ;

 




 

we

Euthanasia of unwanted dogs and cats; humane slaughter of
livestock; methods used in commercial killing of wildlife includ-
ing animals trapped for their fur, seals and whales; in killing
wildlife regarded by some as pests, e2g. blackbirds in Kentucky
and Tennessee, coyotes in the west; in shooting animals for sport -

all these myriad deaths demand at the barest‘minimumtthatﬂpain.and”é

1"

fear not be inflicted. To what extent has American law recognized‘2

this right?

The 1958 federal Humane Slaughter Act (Public Law 85- 765)

requires that all firms doing business with the government render

liveStQCk "'ns@nslble to pain by a Single blow, or gugshofh or anwiégiy

electrical, chemical or other means that is rapid and effective .?i§#a
» .a:

before being shackled hOIsted thrown, fast or cut or by slaughter-

ing in accordance With the ritual requirements of the Jewrsh faith

529:;

”I.
,l." 1"

or any other reliéious faith, that prescribes a method of slaugh-

ter whereby the animal suffers loss of conSCiousness by anemia of

V

the brain caused by the simultaneous and instantaneous severance of

”the carotid arteries with a sharp instrument. '° This law covers

about 80%  of- all slaughterhouses. The smaller slaughterhouses are

6

covered by state2laws in most, but not all states. Their require-u
It" , . g5- .

’ﬂsimilar to the federal law Prohibition of shackling

and hOlbtlngﬁpIIOI to koSher slaughter has not yet been achieved,

a; .I:

lthouzh some slaughterhouses voluntarily use humane pens for

.42”:

4"“?

tinning animals..:

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (Public Law 192,522)

$33 .r = , 3* ‘ u 11"";
putswa moratorium on the killing of sea otters, éﬂar bears and all '

A ‘r n. .
2 ”13:4,. LI" .
x».- . '3' v

5 .
. .. 1.2..
A '19'

. . ‘ _ . ,. . ‘
.J'“, 5, ‘ 1‘42" . I - , 7 74.2
",'» my _- I . . 1‘ v _ .2,s
. 231.” .. J . .,\ f1 .-
’ - , ‘ :- = «r;
. r - . - ‘ 1 J ,

v
*5.
o“

1.9"",1“,
< www
. (4' .- . D

 




members of the Sirenia, Pinnipedia and Cetacea except under a
permit wh1ch , among Other things, requires any killing to be hu-
mane, definedas "that method of taking which involves'p the least

1 posSible degree of pain and shffer1ng pra ct1ca1 to the mammal in-
blvolved. Impmnatun1 of the skins Qf fur seals from South Africa
was prohi bited in 1975 when the Secretary of Commerce made a find~
ing, after study of the report of a team of American veterinarians
>sent to View the seal killing methods, that the suffering of the
seals was too great to comply with the Act. Importation was re-
sumed in 1976, and a group of environmental and humane organiza-
‘ytions sued the Secretary of Commerce in an attempt to reverse this

:1, “1.

dealslon to permit entry. 3

The p01son1ng of predators on the public lands of the United
States was prohibited by execut1ve order in 1971 thus ending the

gala
5s 1

use of such palm: 1 and slow acting poisons as thallium and sodium

4%

f!

gwft paln and fear. aseveral hills are*
' {ﬁg-3;,- ' “ ‘ * '

«slaw in New Jersey, Massachusetts

but bruel trapping re-

_§;i§§ oils from the birds feathers. At best birds

 

 




are said to die of exposure in thirty minutes, but it is common
.for thousands to be only half—k111ed and to be seen hopping or
walking unab1e to fly the next day. To by-pass court action a
law was rushed through Congress in a single day in 1976 exempting
all bird killing agents from the requirements of the National
Environmental Policy Act for three months. This period has now
passed; however, this is another demonstration of failure of the
right of a humane death. In this case, students of the large
roosts Seriously question the wisdom of mass killing even if it
were done painlessly since it has not been established that the
numbers of these insect-and weed-seed-eating birds have increased,
but only that they have appeared in new and inconvenient loca-
tions possibly owing to climatic changes. Even the-earliest anti-
icruelty statutes recognize the fact that it is ofuel to kill unf
necessarily. Thus, the attempts to wipe out millions of black-0

birds rather than seeking to relocate them is contrary to the basic*.

V y" a“? _ ‘1.
recognized rights of animals. This battle has noé“yet come to a

_ final resoluéﬁpn. 1 1» 1 s

‘ lag is

Norphas the campaign to save the dolphins destroyed in tuna
purse'seines

and humane

0f the Marine Mammal Protett10n  Act have been satisfied. 1

H1 iLast year somﬁ 134, 000 dolphins died in tuna purge seines’ by
521' :1 .
1 being caugi; 4;; Sarevented from surfacing
1 a
for air, or by injuries sustained in the' saﬂkimg up" pp"oceSS,or
going  through=the power block alive. 1 Seriously injured animals are
' . I * . ‘ ~ «31 1

1 s1 1 :1
tossed,overhoard3to the sharks.1 Manyxﬂ olatjons of the regulirLqur”

ii =

:51 ..

 




J

ghocumented by observers placed aboard the purse seiners by the

{‘9};-

‘ National'Marihe Fisheries Service: yet no prOSecutions have been

lénlundertaken by the government.%§The Act passed in 1972 gave

l?”",tuna industry two years to reduce to Hnsignificant levels

‘lproaching zero" the death or Serious injury of dolphins in
WVfishery, but the Commerce Department has been very lenient towards
the industry. '

Although the judicial decision has put the rights of dolphins

on cons1derably f1rmer ground, a Stay in carrying out that dec1s~

' 1. ' 'cu

ion was granted on appeal, and industry-oriented bills are pend~
A

is

air". 3 .

mglg if Congress to weaken the Marine Mammal Protection Act

7 ﬁne public and press are on the side of the dolphins ontr1lgk
at the indifference of the industry which relies on the dblphin
iherds to lead them to the schools of tuna. Leading newspapers I

' throughout the nation have published ed1tor1ah331d1ng Wllh thee
dolphins and their friend on the bench; But the' 'incidental” kill
goes on, and a boycott of tuna is growing in the United States
since the film "Last Days of the Dolphins" has béhn distributed
showing what actually happens underwater and eXplaining the highmf
ly social nature of the animals, any of whom succumb because they
will not leave a clOse relative trapped in the seine.

In the matter of sport hunting, recent bodks and teleVQsi
documentaries have focussed the attention of the public on the
sufferings of target anﬂmals. Sportsman's organizations ha§e
blamed what they term "the slob hunter" but, to date, nothing

been done to ensure that persOns licensed to hunt ane capable

§ 1“,"

 




‘ {1; r“ ,_; ,

:lkiiling an animal with oné shot or even tht their weapons have
“the likelihood of doing so.7 The popu1arity of bow and arrow and
antique weapons has grown despite the fact they make clean kills
Vimore d1fficult.1 Again the right of anima ls to a painless death
is abrogated and no law applies.

The methods used in taking the lives of lost, stray and un-
gwanted animals is controversial, too, in the United States. if
, Massachusetts reigntly passed a law against use of the decompres-
,Sion chamber, a device which has been vigorously marketed for
the past twenty years. California has a law to restrict and reg-
ulate this and other methods. There is no federal law on the
Subject,whichdoes not readily lend itself to federal supervision.
‘Serious abuses are brought to light from time to time and dealt
with largely by public pressure - another gap in the right to a
pa1nleSS death. . 1

Finally, to address this right with respect to laboratory
animals, thedready availability of anesthetics and pain-reliev-
ing drugs in the laboratory setting should ensure that death in
the laboratory be without agony. But failure to destroy mori-
bund animals still accdbnts for muchﬁsuffering Continued use of
‘the LDSO test requiring the unalleviated death throes of half the

O

lanimals is an example. I " ﬁ‘ *

f!

The Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966, amended in 1910

and renamed the An1mal Welfare Act_ then ameng d again in 1976

warm blooded

1"

 

 




.huntihg or as guard dogs.

The Act requires "apprOpriate use of anesthetic, analgesic
and tranquilizing drugs" under the provision for "adequate vet~
erinary tare." HoweVer, the b1w 3pm dfically refrains from re»
quiring humane design of experiments or tests. Two signatﬁree

are required on the animal reports submitted to the Secretary.b“'

registered reeearch facilities under the Act certifying comm

pliaAce. Animal care (tommitteee Leuahltlng with thoee who dﬁﬁ1ﬁﬂm11

I

the experimente have the appertunity te suggest more humane W111
ods and do so an oceaeien. In this wAy, the fight of laﬁprater‘
animals t0 he e11red All unree Seary pain, discomfort, feAAAAAM
anxiety 1e recﬂgnized, AAA it 13 Hmt implemeAéed by Hanaat1Aglﬂ
provisions of 1AW 1A the BALAeA $te1ee.

'Themtmcdj11vofemreg he11 AA, and transportation efQAAiw

male under 11e AA imel Welt 1e Act eetah1ish by federalélaw 1AA

r1rht 01 AAimale'tQ ‘safe 1AAAQP<rL and the maAy abusee That 3A1”

* ma} dealers 11f1111 0A ﬁniﬁdlw 1A wruei to av01d spPPdlng ﬁOHAI

10A decent 1redtment. For example eend1ng-Anweaned pApA AAA kit”

<t ens'acr0s the (antlnent or Sele’1ABpet15 hops W111 ﬁ0'10ngef be

Apgrmitted;‘s :10 30m11exteb theeifeet'mf Ahe‘AAimALWe1fare A11
is td make a fede’a} ofsenaevefm1e1reatmemt by e0mmerc1a1
Eme§3_cmla.hr"1d scala, the seme'ahueee'tAat the SUAXA.HALLW
cruelty statuteea are dERLEHAd :0 deal N1th in the ease of

Vidual AA1mal ewners. ‘Sometimee,AAﬁsygtate and federal 1aWA
ply. The mAx1Hum 12.1111 fena’ty for v§o1At11>A cf the
Act is a fine of $1,000. Undere1eease and de 31 order

of $500 may be levied for each offwnee and each gay ﬁeLLnrv

(13Ml A1CM1> CLMTL1UUEEL

 




to¢this comprehensive Act also pro-

l,ﬁéstate lawsﬁ against fighting and

a criminal penalty of $5 OOOHand/or a year's imprisonemnt for
those who know1ng1y sponsor, participate in, transport in inter-

state commerce, or use the mails to promote fights between dogs or-

, ii“,

other mammals, or do so with fighting cocks except where state law

_, , .x. 3“,"V
4|‘r- ;..

permits it

. ,1. . ‘_ . ‘9‘)“
.13, . “L, v!-

A highly spec1a112ed fo£ﬁ<of torture” peculia; to the United
States, is the sorlng gdf Tennessee Walking Horses to induce them

to throw their feet out in what is know as "the big lick" or sore
( it 1
lick ". Oil of mustard on the pasterns, tacks and nails under the

shoes are two of the methods  used. ' 1n 1970 the Horse Protection,

\,,

Act (Public Law 91- 540) was passed to put an end to these atroci—
ties, but so ingrained did they prove thatﬁﬂt was necessary to
strengthen the law by amendment in'lghh. spate laﬁh aga1nst tor-

ture and torment were useless against thisvuommerc1al activiﬁy
But the right to freedom from cruelty has bééh legislated by the h

Congress for these horses. ' .Ivﬁﬁ ~1_ f;mpp

Pending in Congress is a bill, H.R. 11112 to establish a

ﬁ'

broad based commission to examine over a two-year period a \ariety

of problems relating to animal welfare. A majoskfmelg never yet*’

_ 35m '
effectively addressed in the United States is 1n§en51ve farming

l

practices whereby poultry, calves and pigs are confined more close-
‘2; h; *1

’0:

L
{hp
at p. 1
We
.)’
1}.“
xv. “-‘ '
I

 




1y than the laSt generation of fanmers even dreamed might be pos-
sible. This "factory farmlng infringes on the right of animals
to a l1fe,however short 1t may be, which allows expression of nor-
mal behavior. This right does not exist by law in the United
States.v

The right to be treated as a living creature as distinCt from
an inanimate object is basic to all animal rights. It finds legal
expression in state laws and city ordinances against the sale of
Easter chicks and ducklings which, prior to enactment of these
laWs were often dyed purple or pink and sold as toys with little
thought of their survival. Very few did suryive.

”Baby turtles,.until Stringent regulations Were inatituted by
:the Food and Drug Administration, sufferedthe same fate, merely
aggravated, by a somewhat longer survival time as most went blind
‘and slowly starved to death. A

Though less blatant, eXtreme irresponsibility, comparable to
t.he‘ purchase and casting off of an expensive toy, is purchase of
a purebred pup in response to pet shop promet1on. Ihis problem
has been aggravated in recent years by the mushrooming of puUpy
mills in Kansas, Misgouri an bothe1 midwestern tatcu for shipment

pgto metropol1tan centers on the east and west coast The pet inw.

.49? .
with iranqhi ed

.11 ,

C O m E}.

“ -= - ,.. ‘ 1‘29
' 1n, not *i*"Fffic1entv mEans

'_fkeeping

Vﬂwpeal to;

A Similar type of promotion in Japan has bee Ln documente< by

1,99. 9 ~gas..“.“9 ,
, :1; ._

 




the Japan Animal Welfare Society, showingfpurebreds.in thepounds.

" has

Essentially, the attempt to mass produce d ogs‘with' 'papers
made money for the producers and marketers but has swollen the
pitiful ranks of unwanted dogs purchased on a whim and later a-

bandoned.

When the 1976 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act go into

effect they should have a somewhat dampening influence on this‘t
violation of animals' rights because the cost of raising and
then shippingwtﬁypsand kittens to the big metrOpolitan markets
will have riSen. The quality of enforeement by the veterinary

~ and lay inspectors of the U. S. Department of Agriculture's Ani-5'
mal and Plant Health Inspection Service Will be important here
as will the final regulations which the Secretary promulgates
under the new provisions of law. “

Good enforcement1£quires adequate appropriations, and here

'the progress towards ensuring legal rights of animals is not as

strong as it should be. The Office of Management and Budget
(EMB) in the Executive Branch of the U.S. government is tradi-
tionally stingy toward financing animal welfare regulations.

When the recommendations of the OMB come to the appropriagions
committees of the House of Representatives and Senate. it is dif-
ficult to persuade them.to increase the amounts., The special iné
terests being regulated may seek to keep the appropriations‘ag
low as poSsible to reduce the level of inspections and enforce-
ment. .However, appropriations for the AnimalWelfare Act, the,

Marine‘MammallProtection Act and the Endangered Species Act have
. 1 .

increased over the years. The stream is groWing in strength

 




even in this least friendly quarter.
Bills pending in Congress include prOposals to encourage

use of alternatives to laboratory animals; to provide federal
financing for spaying clinics to reduce births of unwanted com-
panion animals; to provide studies on individual species in
trouble, such as wolves and dolphins; to prohibit importation of
pate de foie gras; to require humane slaughter of meat imported
from foreign countries; to embargo fisheries products produced

by commercial whaling entities or alternatively, to trigger the
embargo if whaling equipment or vessels are transferred to a—
nother country; to prohibit the capture of killer whales for
IOceanariums (this bill which has passed the Senate got its impe-
tus from a widely observed round up of killer whales in Puget
sound where explosive devices and airplanes were used).

‘ Clearly expressed public interest, organizational competence,
and the serious interest of at least one legislator are the basic
roots of successfullegislative action? Such action doesn't
follow any dogmatic or explicit listing of the rights of animals
Thus to sum up the legal rights of animals in the United States is,
glargely, to express wﬁht has emerged from the rough and tumble of e»
legislative struggle and compromise as one abuse after another
has come to the attention of Members of Congress, andﬁdemand has
grown to right the wrong. The synthe31s.§§ human obligationsﬁcan
scarcely be better stated than was doﬁe go long ago in "The Body

5 *ﬁOf Liberties especially if the first twelve words are takgn alOne:”

' 6.9-5

“"N0»man shall exercise any Tirrany or Crueltie towards any bruite

74H

Creaturé...’

 

. - ~--mwmwr~— c ,1 'W" m ' 7‘Wf}:gﬁ.71 "mm‘ a ( $50903W'Wﬁ 1!. q! .,. ,., ‘ ‘ Lt

 




American law gives animal species the right to existence. It
gives them the right to protection not only against direct killing
to extinction but against unintended harm through destruction  0£
necessary habitat.

Individual animals are accorded the right of protection a-
gainst torture or torment or unnecessary killing or mutilation.’

Domestic animals and animals kept in captivity are given
the right to adequate food, water and shelter, and they may not
be abandoned to starve, though their owner may sell them, give
them away, or kill them if he does so painlessly.

The right to a painless death is clearly expressed in law
for some animals, in particular those slaughtered for food.
"Marine mammals, too, have been given federal protection against.
”cruel methods of k1111ng l Animals caught in leghold traps, on the‘
other hand are denied this right as wel l as the right against

a
torment which they suffer from broken bones 0r teeth, eXposure,
and fear. I . .V " V'”;I 3,1 . i“ .2‘15"W

The right of laboratory animals to pain reliev1ng drugs is. ”

expressed in federal law but not universally mandated. {

Although whales a.nd dolphins are among the moSt perschted

of mammal Species, the statutory protection accorded them under

hﬂ3the Ma11ne Mammal Protection Act and the Endangered Species Act!

 

 

is greater than that for any Other group of animals.

 




1. g. ”a.
1,1,;

The right to be protected against sadlstic exp101tation in

° stag ed fights and in hOrse show 3 for which the animals are ,"sored"

is f1rmly legislated

The r1ght to safe transpor't, prOtected from extremes of tem~
perature, air pressure and excessively close confinement is estab—
lished in l aw for  animaIs covered by the federal Animal Welfare
Act.

These few, modest legal rights of animals in the Unied States
in our bicentennial year are far from what they should be. The
development of science and technology makes possible many refine-.
ments in our treatment of animals which should be mandated. Un-
fortunately, at the present time technology is often turned a—
gainst the welfare of animals rather than supporting it, as, for
example in the case of the specialized purse seining technology
and in intensive livestock management. But the last decade's
studies of large mammals in the wild have contributed to a deep—
er understanding and admiration for them which carries over to

ﬁother humbler Creatures. The more we know of each of them, the
l’himore we all must realize that they, too, have inalienable rights.

I ‘5;- »‘
“-- 55“

 

 

 

 

 




References

ILaavitt, E.S., 1970. "Animals and Their Legal Rights. Animal
Welfare Institute, wankington, D.C. 165 ﬁﬁ.

'\

Vinter, F.J., 1973. Facts About Furs. Animal Welfare Institute.

washington, D.C. 89 pp.

Werld Wildlife Conferencenm Efforts to Save Endangered Species.

1973.United States Department of State. 'Wnshington, D.C.

30 pp.

Note: other referenceg are t0 bills and laws. Should further

documentation of thege be desired it will be supplied.

 




 

PAPER No..§.l.__-45 78

The Current Animal Welfare Issue
in the United States

by

CHRISTINE STEVENS
President, Animal Welfare Institute
Secretary, Society for Animal Pro—

tective Legislation

Washington, D.C.

For presentation at the 1981 Winter Meeting
AMERICAN SOCIETY OF AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS

Palmer House
Chicago, Illinois
December 15—18, 1981

SUMMARY:
Current animal welfare issues invOlve en-
dangered species, use of the steel jaw leg-
hold trap, laboratory animals, their use in
routine tests and research, their care and
treatment, livestock and poultry raised under

intensive conditions, methods of slaughter/pre-
slaughter handling, and transport of ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Papers presented before ASAE meetings are considered to be the property of the Society.
In general, the Society reserves the right of first publication of such papers, in complete
form. However, it has no objection to publication, in condensed form, with credit to the
Society and the author. Permission to publish a paper in full may be requested from ASAE,
P.O. Box 410, St. Joseph, Michigan 49085.

The Society is not responsible for statements or opinions advanced in papers or discussions
at its meetings. Papers have not been subjected to the review process by ASAE editorial
committees; therefore, are not to be considered as refereed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




The Current Animal Welfare Issue in the United States

by Christine Stevens
President, Animal Welfare Institute and
Secretary, Society for Animal Protective Legislation
Presented at the Winter Meeting of the American Society
of Agricultural Engineers, December 16, 1981

Current animal welfare issues in the United State include
both domestic and wild species, in the field or being maintained
by human beings for a variety of different reasons. The most
recent hearings were held last week in the U.S. Senate on the
Endangered Species.Act which is due to be reauthorized next year.
The Act relates to an international treaty, the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) which includes the requirement: "any living specimen will.
be so transported and cared for as to minimize the risk of injury,
damage to health or cruel treatment." It also requires that parts
or products of species which are either endangered (and thus listed
on Appendix I ) or threatened (and listed on Appendix II) may not
be placed in commercial trade without a permit. .A current issue
revolves around the question of export of bobcat skins from the
United States. The bobcat is extinct in three states already:
however. trappers are anxious to sell as many skins as possible
and object to the requirement for a scientific finding that ex-
port will not be detrimental to the species.

In addition to the question of how many bobcats can be
killed without endangering their populations, the method of cap-
ture is a serious issue. A bill introduced by Congressman Clarence
Long with 82 co—sponsors would prohibit use of the steel jaw leg-
hold trap to capture animals whose pelts are sold in interstate
or foreign commerce or captured on federal lands. The reason for
this proposal is the extreme pain and injury caused by this trap.
Animals can be captured instead with cable-coated leg snares. or
box or cage traps. A total of 48 countries have outlawed the
steel jaw leghold trap.

‘Another major issue on which hearings were held in October
in the U.S. House of Representatives is the way in which labora-
tory animals are used and how they are treated, housed and cared
for. Seven bills were introduced in this Congress, the two major
ones being focussed on two different aspects of the prdblem.
Congressman Richard Roe's bill is directed to alternatives to
laboratory animals in experiments and tests, while Congresswoman
Pat Schroeder's bill is concerned with the treatment of the ani-
mals used with a view to reducing their suffering.

 




.-2-

There has been an enormous increase in recent years in
the use of animals for toxicity testing. Each animal test takes
two to three years and costs from $200. 000 up. These tests have
been criticized by leading scientists as "relatively unproductive"
and an "unnecessary utilization of animals.“ Unfortunately, very
little government funding is going into the research necessary to
develop a full range of more rapid and accurate tests. The bulk
of the National Toxicology Program's funding continues to go into
- testing rather than research to improve the quality of the tests —-
and this even though the program was charged by Congress to de-
velop such tests.

Routine testing of drugs, pesticides, cosmetics, household
products, food additives and a host of other items involves severe
pain infliction on massive numbers of animals. Therefore, there
is a substantial public demand for change. The form of the pro-
posed legislation has created hostility among experimental biolo-
gists because the bill as currently drafted would take funds from
experiments in which animals are used in order to fund research
for the development of alternatives. It would appear that a dif—
ferent formula must be adopted in order to resolve the issue ~—
an important one both from the point of view of animal welfare
and protection of the public health. for the current, routine
animal tests are so time-consuming and expensive that an unchal—
lenged estimate made by a speaker at the National Institutes of
Health symposium on the subject this February. was that it would
take 200 years to test all the products now being consumed by
the public.

Cruel treatment of laboratory animals was highlighted by
the recent conviction on six counts of cruelty to animals of
Dr. Edward Taub, Director of the Institute for Behavioral Research,
in Silver Spring, Maryland. Seventeen monkeys were seized by the
.Montgomery county Police from the filthy animal room in which they
were housed. Photographs taken by the police at the time of the
seizure and by Alex Pacheco who was a volunteer at the laboratory
fully documented the abysmally bad conditions the monkeys were
subject to. I have brought a few of the photos mounted to show
the apparent violations of the Federal Animal Welfare Act and
of standards of the National Institutes of Health. The Decemr
ber llth issue of Science, the prestigious journal of the Ameri—
can Association for the Advancement of Science, carried a two-
page article on the case which stated in part:

The monkey trial has already earned a prominent

place in the history of the animal welfare move-

ment and drawn support from animal lovers across

the country. The affair has set at least two

precedents: it is believed to be the first time

 




that local law enforcement officials have
seized animals from a research laboratory,
and it is the first time the National
Institutes of Health (NIH) has suspended
a grant because of questions relating to
the treatment of experimental animals...

Central to the defense's case was the ar-
gument that people who have not worked
with deafferented monkeys -- including
the veterinarians who testified for the
prosecution —- are not qualified to as-
sess their problems. Monkeys are messy
creatures, the defense added. and can
mess up their quarters and dirty their
bandages within moments after they have
been cleaned. Shown photographs of le-
sions on the monkeys' arms, the defense
expressed the belief that IBR operated
within respectable limits. Two experts
from the University of Pennsylvania found
it difficult to defend the dirty cages
and piles of feces shown in the photo-
graphs. .But another Pennsylvania expert,
neuroscientist Michael Goldberger. who
worked with Taub on his last grant appli—
cation, was unperturbed by conditions in
the laboratory, which he said should be
judged by whether the animals are healthy.
"I saw nothing I wouldn't expect to see
if I went around the country looking at
primate colonies," he said. Psychologist
Solomon Steiner from the City University
of New York. who is on the board of dir—
ectors of IBR, was also satisfied. He
last visited the laboratory on 5 June
and said he saw only "very good specimens
of deafferented monkeys."

The problem of habituation to bad conditions for animals
is a serious one in virtually all animal welfare issues. It
often happens to people who'work in laboratories, causing them
to block out from their minds suffering which is immediately
apparent to anyone not so habituated. In the case of the Silver
Spring monkeys it had happened not only to those who worked in
the laboratory but also to the inspector from the 0.8. Depart-
ment of Agriculture who noted minor deficiences (loose tiles

 




were written up in one of his reports) but allowed glaring abuses
to continue.

The site visits which are conducted by NIH to premises
where its grantees work might be supposed to guarantee correc-
tion of any failure to live up to the formal assurances which
each grantee must make that he will adhere to NIH standards of
animal care and treatment. Unfortunately, the site visit teams
have paid little attention to the animals. NIH had awarded
over two million dollars in grants over the years to Dr. Taub.

Clearly, improved legislation and improved administration
of such legislation are called for to bring our standards of
animal treatment and care to a decent level. U

Another broad area of concern is intensive systems used in
the production of livestock and poultry products. As agricultural
engineers, I feel sure you have knowledge of the problem: however,
some misconceptions have gained currency, and I would like to try
to set the record straight.

The greatest objections to intensive systems center around
the extremely close confinement to which veal calves, gestating
sows and laying hens are subjected. In each of these cases, a
totally unnatural restriction of movement and opportunity to
perform behavior normal to each type of animal is imposed by
widely used current methods. The vast majority of laying hens
are confined to small, overcrowded battery cages. They cannot
spread their wings, and in some cases they are so crowded that
not all of them can even stand on the cage floor simultaneously.
The slanted wire floors cause foot deformities in many cases
because the birds are denied the opportunity to roost normally.
to scratch, or to walk on a flat surface.

Virtually all special-fed veal calves for the white veal
trade are crated. They stand on slats without bedding, and as
they grow they cannot even stretch their legs out when they lie
down. They are restricted to twice-a-day bucket feeding.

Many gestating sows are crated, too, the size of their crates
so close to the animal's body that she cannot turn around, and
this continues for months. Fortunately, the United States has
not moved as rapidly into this extreme form of confinement as have
several of the European countries. Estimates from Germany and
Britain show that 60% of gestating sows are confined in this
manner, while in the United States estimates range from 3 to 20%
with most experts suggesting a range of 10 to 15%. '

 




-5-

This method of housing gestating sows first came to my
attention when I attended the quadrennial meeting of the World
Society for the Protection of.Animals. There a film was shown
by a veterinarian doing research at the University of Munich.
Dr. Sommers documented the behavior of the sows at times when
there was no activity and no one present except herself as a
completely quiet observer. She showed the frenzied bar biting
which seized the sows from time to time, gnashing their teeth
back and forth across the short bar in front of their faces.
When this frenetic activity died down, the sows showed another
strange and unnatural behavior-~they slowly, almost millimeter
by millimeter, allowed their heads to fall into a position
described as mourning. With equally painfully slow motion, they
seated themselves in the manner commonly used by dogs. All who
saw the film were horrified. The head of the department, Dr.
Sambraus, commented that these behaviors were not observed by
persons walking through the building because the sows became
alert to watch the people—-one of their very few opportunities
to alleviate the appalling boredom of their situation.

I learned at this same conference that in Sweden this system
of housing gestating sows had formerly been used but had been
abandoned in 1968 because the Swedish Veterinary Board found the
system uneconomic. The method most commonly used in Sweden
provides for several stalls into which each sow goes to eat, but
she is able to back out into a resting area, and also the sows
use a common dunging area which makes for cleanliness. This
system is a confinement system, but the individual animal has
some opportunity to move about which results in easier delivery
of piglets with less need for veterinary assistance because of
difficult births.

Another important aspect of the housing and care of these
sows is the availability of straw. Straw provides far greater
comfort as bedding, and it is also an important means of alleviat-
ing boredom. In nature pigs do a great deal of rooting, spending
much of their time in seeking food. The barrenness of unbedded
slats, concrete or expanded metal totally eliminate the opportunity
to express this behavior.

Interesting work in progress at the University of Edinborough
began with a study of pigs in a natural area which included a
steep hillside. It was found that the pigs sought out for their
principal abode the place in which they could view their surround-
ings and the appearance of any intruders. They built a comfortable

 




-5-

nest, an activity in which the small pigs also took part bringing
twigs to the adults. However, only the old pigs actually con-
structed the nest. This type of observation of higher animals

is not new. Many wild animals have been subject to close scrutiny
by trained scientific observers. You are no doubt familiar with
the work of Jane Goodall observing chimpanzees in the wild, with
Diane Fossey's similar work with gorillas, George Schaller's
observations of lions, and Oria and Iain Douglas-Hamilton's study
of wild African elephants described in the book.Among the Elephants.
These careful dbservations, in which the scientists remained with
the animals over a period of years, have led to enormous advances
in the understanding of their behavior. Strangely, very little
similar work has been done with domestic species even though the
difficulties involved are obviously greatly lessened. The Edin-
borough study may lead to others which will enable us better to
understand porcine nature and those aspects of life most‘hmportant
to the pigs themselves. For it will not do simply to try to
imagine What one would prefer if one were a pig. It is far better
to get that information from the pigs themselves, and work along
these lines is being undertaken at the University of Cambridge in

England.

I would note here that the root of the problem of difference
of opinion with regard to the treatment of livestock and poultry
is the fact that a tendency has developed in intensive operations
to consider the end product-~the egg, the bacon, or the veal--
and the efficiency of its production as the goal, and to assume
that if the animals continue to produce, even at a lower level,
so long as the operation appears to be economically acceptable.
no further question concerning the animals' well—being need be
considered. People primarily concerned about the welfare of the
animals that provide the nation with food begin their observations
and thinking at the other end—-that is, with the animal itself-—
and when the confinement system has been carried to an extreme,
they object.

Let us now consider the veal calf and the numerous dairy
replacement calves who are raised in the same manner-~that is,
crated and bucket fed. These animals, too, have a totally barren
environment. They stand on slats without bedding, cannot turn
around and, as they grow larger, become more and more constricted
when they lie down. Their long legs must be constantly bent when
resting. Sometimes they are unable to walk when finally released
from the crates to send them to slaughter.

Their feeding, unlike that of a calf accompanying its mother
and taking frequent small drinks of milk, is concentrated into

 




-7-

two enormous meals which they must learn to drink from a bucket.
Moreover, the content of the milk substitute is often close to the
very edge of causing clinical anemia. The abnormal restriction of
iron is intended to keep the veal "white" or, as required by
slaughterhouses who sell to a rather ridiculous luxury trade,
"pinkish~gray.“ If the meat is merely pink, as normal, healthy
veal should be, the farmer is likely to be docked as much as ten
cents a pound by the slaughterhouse. I have talked with veal
producers who tell me they would be glad to provide more iron to
the calves if they could receive the same amount of money per
pound for pink veal.

As for the housing, Quantock Veal, the largest producer in
England, now raises all its veal calves in "straw yards" where
about thirty calves are housed together in a roomy pen heavily
bedded with straw. Artificial nipples are available on the sides
of the pen so that the calves can drink as they feel inclined.
Quantock has found this system to be economically sound. Indeed
it costs less than keeping the calves in crates. The Animal
Welfare Institute has assisted in the funding of research at the
University of Bristol in which carefully controlled scientific
observations have been made on this type of housing and feeding
as well as the crate system. Now Volac. Quantock's parent
company, is bringing the system to the United States where we
hope it will be widely adopted.

Switzerland has independently developed a similar system,
and the large majority of Swiss veal calves are raised in the same
manner.

The straw yard system should be of particular interest to
agricultural engineers with regard to ventilation and heating in
different climates. volac will be paying special attention to
this aspect of the system in the United States.

From the issues point of view, it is interesting to note
that Quantock was motivated to try the straw yard system because
of what it called the "cruelty stigma." The company's directors
were delighted to find that they were making more money in the
more humane system.

'This was the experience of livestock producers when the
Federal Humane Slaughter Act was passed in the United States.
Although it was passed over heavy resistance by the American Meat
Institute, packers soon found that the use of humane pre-slaughter
stunning methods substantially reduced bruises and "dark cutters"
as well as reducing injuries to plant personnel and reducing

 




-3-

turnover at the point of slaughter.

we believe that improved methods of housing livestock and
poultry which take into account the feelings and desires of the
animals involved will also prove to be advantageous to producers.
It may take some experimentation and a willingness to be open-
minded, but that is the American way. We hope that it will not
be necessary to legislate good housing and care for farm animals.
However, if changes are not made, we are quite prepared in the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation to seek mandatory change.

Another issue which agricultural engineers could help solve
is transportation of livestock and poultry. The first federal
law to protect animals passed by the U. S. Congress was the
so~called Twenty-Eight Hour Law which restricted the length of
time livestock could be held in railroad cars without being
released for water and rest. This proved to be exceedingly
[valuable in reducing suffering and death en route. The bill was
passed in 1873. As stated by the Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service of the U. S. Department of Agriculture: "The Twenty-
Eight Hour Law was enacted in response to public demand for the
humane care and treatment of animals destined for slaughter.
Results of this law can be measured by the improved condition of
livestock in transit and at slaughtering plants; greater returns
to the producer: and wholesome meat for the consumer at reasonable
prices."

However, as APHIS also states in its contribution to.Animals
and Their Legal Rights. “ . . . with the increased use of trucks
as a means of conveyance. there has been a steady decline in the
movement of livestock by railroads." There is a need for better
design of trucks to avoid extremes of temperature, poor ventilation,
slippery floors and inadequate ramps. Some interesting improvements
have been made on a limited basis in railroad cars for cattle in
which the animals can be watered without removing them from the
cars, and they are provided with comfortable bedding en route. I
am not aware of any similar advances in the livestock trucking
industry. Indeed, I was recently told by a veal producer that
there is an enormous amount of roughness and bad treatment of
veal calves by truckers and that producers are compelled to find
individual truckers who will handle the animals decently.

At meetings of the Animal Air Transport Association, reports
have been made that severe problems on handling livestock flown
from the United States to foreign countries are often encountered
at the receiving end. In hot countries, of course, it is essential
that the airplane, once on the ground, be kept cool until the

 




-9-

animals can be unloaded. Often the receivers fail to meet the
plane or, when they do, are provided with trucks and ramps which
cannot properly handle the animals. Some of these matters are
engineering problems or could be partially alleviated by good
engineering.

Another problem which has not yet been wholly solved because
the engineering solutions have not been fully accepted is kosher
slaughter of livestock. The ASPCA pen is viewed as too expensive
to be adopted voluntarily by all kosher slaughterhouses. This
means that, because of an exemption in the Federal Humane Slaughter
Act, heavy steers are lifted by one leg in a manner which not
infrequently results in broken legs. Any delay in slaughtering
the suspended animal results in additional suffering, and such
delays are not uncommon. Here again is a place where agricultural
engineers could solve an animal welfare issue. ‘

The Animal Welfare Institute welcomes the assistance of
agricultural engineers in preventing needless suffering to
animals, and in turn we would be happy to supply any members of
your Society with information we have accumulated from scientific
journals and observations in the field which might be of use to

you.

 




 

rical Aspects of Food, Agriculture, and Natural Resource Policy M

 

 

 

 

 

A Workshop Sponsored by

National Agriculture and Natural Resources Curriculum Project
Ofﬁce of Higher Education Programs . Cooperative State Research Service 0 USDA

College of Agriculture . University of Kentucky _ ~ ‘

ANIMAL WELFARE
Eggs and Regs

Committee for Agricultural Research Policy. 223 Scovell Hall. University of Kentucky. Lexington. KY 40546

The L'mi'cm'rv of Kmrucky is an Equal ()pporrunrrv L'm'rcrmy

 




 

THE WELL-BEING OF AGRICULTURAL ANIMALS
Paul B. Thompson
Texas A&M University, College Station
Stanley E. Curtis
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

 

' ANIMAL AGRICULTURE

 

A." Role of Animals in Agricultural Systems

 

1. Historical Perspective

 

For over 99. 9 percent of their l4-millionryear history, humans and their
ancestors were food hunters, gatherers, and scavengers. It was less than 10,000
years ago when they started to domesticate animals and cultivate plants. This
was a wise step. Only with the advent of agriculture were their food supplies

reliable enough that humans could successfully distribute themselves over so much‘fi

of the earth, in such a variety of climates.

Agricultural animals--that handful of species that have accompanied humans ‘
through thousands of years of existence-~have played three important roles in , ._
civilization (Cole and Garrett, 1980; Spedding, 1984; Campbell and Lasley, 1985.)
First and foremost, they provide food for humans. Hominids have eaten eggs,
.milk, and meat for millions of years. There is to this day a strong positive
correlation between personal income level and both total-protein consumption and
animal-protein consumption. As income increases and the number of dietary
options subsequently becomes larger, people tend to select diets higher in
animal-protein, and this correlation holds whether one makes cross-cultural
comparisons among nations or among social classes in a single nation.

Religious beliefs and cultural traditions have, of course, determined
Specific animal-product consumption patterns. The Kosher prohibition of ,
pork is well- known, for example, and the eating of beef and dairy products or of
chicken meat and eggs are also proscribed by some faiths. On the other hand,
preference traditions in some places require that particular species--chickens,
pigs, sheep, horses, or dogs, for example-—be produced specifically as meat
animals. Without regard to the cultural origins of food customs, many of them
embody nutritional wisdom in their substantive dietary goals. Plants and animals
differ in terms of chemical composition, hence they contribute differently to the
mix of nutrients humans derive from them. In particular, most animal products
contain high-quality protein in high concentration. They also are excellent
sources of vitamins, minerals, and fats. Plant products, on the other hand,
generally supply carbohydrates and certain vitamins. Some vegetable foods do
supply considerable amounts of protein, but their mix of amino acids usually is
not well-balanced.

It is possible to accomplish adequate nutriture of human beings with no
foods of animal origin whatsoever in the diet (the vegan approach). However,
vegetarianism and other, less stringent forms of vegetarianism are practical only
because modern nutritional science has made it possible :0 monitor the mix of
proteins required for a balanced diet, and to supplement deficiencies
artificially. Even now, a varied diet (including both animal and plant products)
is the easiest, surest way for humans to fulfill their nutrient requirements
(ref. )- The need for a variety of vegetable proteins in balanced vegetarian

I

 




 

 

at home and abroad.

Animal production is integrally woven into the fabric of American agricul-
ture today. As personal income rises among Americans (as is true worldwide),
does the consumption of foods of animal origin (Halcrow, 1980; Raeburn, 1984).
This elasticity in our demand for animal products indicates that--when they are
consumed at the rate now prevalent in the United States (i.e., greater than
required for adequate protein, vitamin, and mineral nutriture)--they are
luxuries. _The_§trong demand for animal products is nonetheless real. Many
agricultural animals consume large quantities of grain in modern production
systems. Therefore, although humans in high-income populations tend to consume
little grain directly, total grain use--and thus demand for grain production-~13
bolstered greatly by the consumption of animal products. -The shape and scope of.
American agriculture have been determined by our taste for meat, eggs and dairy
products (and our increasing financial ability to satisfy that taste) as
certainly as they have been by the fortunate edaphic and climatic features of our
land. ~

B. Animal Science in Support of Agriculture

 

1. Goals of Animal Science Research

 

Animal Science is an applied agricultural science.) It has been defined as
"a multidisciplinary science dealing with the production of animals useful to
mankind as sources of food and fiber, as companions, and for recreational
activities and sports" (Becker, 1973). Animal scientists have conducted
wide-ranging research programs in land-grant colleges' agricultural experiment
stations since 1887 (Cole and Garrett, 1980; Allen, 1984; Campbell and Lasley,
1985). They specialize in many disciplines, including: animal care and
management, breeding and genetics, dairy products, ecology and environmental
physiology, egg products, ergonomics, ethology, feeding and nutrition, growth
physiology, immunophysiology, lactation physiology, meat products, muscle
biology, reproductive physiology, and wool products. And they collaborate on a
variety of interdisciplinary investigations with agricultural economists,
agricultural engineers, agronomists, biochemists, physiologists, psychologists,
range scientists, and veterinarians, among others.

The ultimate goal of most animal science research has been the same as that
of the entire American agricultural research establishment: to generate
knowledge that can be applied to ensure ample, affordable supplies of safe,
wholesome food for humans.

"[Animal science] research goals include the production of adequate
amounts of animal products for humans at decreasing 'real' costs;
protecting and ensuring consumer nutrition, health, and well-being;
protecting fara animals from insects, diseases, and other hazards;
ensuring a stable and productive animal agricultures; expanding the
demand for animal products by developing new and improved products and
processes and by_enhancing product quality; expanding export markets
and assisting developing nations with their animal agriculture; and
enhancing the national capacity to develop and disseminate knowledge
and improved methodology for solving problems" (Campbell and Lasley,
1985).

 




 

 

 

 

 

individual animal more thoroughly when they are close at hand, living singly or
in small groups; they can therefore respond more effectively to deficiencies or
illness on a case by case basis. Managers of large, intensive animal-production
units still consider sound animal care and management the basis of high produc-
tivity and profitability, so they have an incentive to secure the well-being of
their animals. The advent of larger units made it possible to upgrade management
quality. Finally, with increasing size of operation come economics of purchasing
and marketing in large lots, with more or less continuous flow (Halcrow, 1980).
This generally enhances the profitability of the individual enterprise, but it is
the consumers of animal products who are the ultimate beneficiaries of increased
efficiency. _ . -1 .. ... "-:.- 3 ;? £1 —, 1

' .

73. Intensive Animal Production Systems: Cons

 

There is another side to the story of modern intensive animal production,
systems. Since the mid-1960s, concerned people have been questioning the ethics
of raising animals in such systems (Harrison, 1964). Since the early 19803,
mainstream humane movement organizations in the United States have focused much
attention on agricultural animals (Kowinski, 1985). "The time has surely come to
look objectively at what is being done to harm animals in the name of production,
efficiency, and progress; and for society to decide what is normally acceptable
and what ethical guidelines and restraints are needed" (Fox, 1984). Michael Fox
(1984) offers the following 'synopsis of major welfare concerns" in animal
agriculture: . . c. .
Overall: problems associated with crowding or overstocking; inadequate

provision of first aid and veterinary care for sick and injured

animals and for humane destruction; poor preventive medicine and
preconditioning programs and lack of veterinary treatment on badly
run farms; inadequate provision for animals' behavioral require-
ments in many confinement systems.

Swine: transportation, handling, slaughter, and overstocking;
ventilation and floor surface for finishing hogs; continuous
tethering or single-stall penning of sews and gilts; design of
farrowing crates and battery cages; tail docking and care of early.
weaned piglets; inadequate light for inspection.

Veal calves: raising of calves in separate stalls or crates on slats,
deprived of normal movement, iron, roughage, and feeding only
twice per day; present (European-developed) systems for raising
milk- fed veal is unacceptable.

Sheep: impact of predators, notably coyotes and dogs; indiscriminate
predator control; certain sheep confinement systems and feedlot-
style finishing Operations.

Dairy cows: western feedlot- -style dairies (lacking shade, shelter, and
lying areas); prolonged stanchion tying; rearing of replacement
calves in single, narrow pens without bedding; dehorning and
castrating without anesthetic; poor handling and care of sick and
injured cows and calves en route to slaughter.
cattle: lack of shade, shelter, dry lying areas and rubbing posts
in feedlots; lack oi roughage in diet; transportation of young
stock from Southeastern states; care in lairage at auctions;
castration and dehorning without anesthetic and hot-iron branding;
total confinement on slatted floors.

 

 

 

 




 

PUbliC and private SQCCOIS (Heckt et al., 1985). Species important to agricul-
ture can be used directly in experiments. Depending on the nature of the ,
project, different kinds of animal-holding facilities are needed for research in ‘
agriculture. Some investigations require a very carefully controlled environment
in rooms designed for laboratory animals; others call for the wide range of
variables found on commercial farms. The need to simulate farm conditions
creates a potential source of tension between animal agriculture research and
guidelines for the care of laboratory animals.

Farm animals sometimes serve as models for the human in a variety of
biomedical research projcts. For instance, most knowledge of human nutrition ,
derives originally from scientific investigations that used animals, including'
agricultural species, as experimental subjects. Scientists in agricultural
experiment stations and elsewhere are now required to keep the agricultural
animals used in this kind of research in the same type of facility required for
the smaller species used in similar experiments. The animal care programr-the
nature of the facilities and the care of and procedures applied to the animals--
must meet the laboratory—animal guidelines (ILAR, 1985). What has been a
straightforward situation until now may, therefore, become complicated. Some
groups have urged that all animals used in research--regardless of the species or
the nature of the research--be kept in the kind of facilities prescribed for
laboratory animals. . ‘

Standards for farm-animal research and teaching facilities are needed. In
many cases those facilities must simulate conditions on commercial animal- .
production Operations; otherwise, the results will be biased. The findings of
research conducted in inappropriate settings will be of little use to farmers. A
consortium of 20 governmental agencies, industrial organizations, and scientific
and professional associations appointed in 1986 a group of nearly 40 animal
scientists, veterinarians, and agricultural engineers to develop guidelines for
the care and use of agricultural animals in agricultural research and teaching.
It is expected that these guidelines will be published early in 1988.

II. FARM ANIMAL WELFARE AND FARM ANIMAL RIGHTS

 

So far, we have seen how animal agriculture has benefited human beings since
time immemorial, and how traditions for the use of agricultural animals evolved
in an era when animals performed a variety of tasks and fulfilled several basic
human needs. Although this pattern still exists on many farms, and predominates
in developing areas, most farm animals in industrialized nations today are raised
for the sole purpose of providing meat, eggs, dairy goods, wool, and leather for
human use. They are produced because animal producers expect both to recoup the
costs of raising the animals from the sale of animal products and to make a
profit. In their traditional uses, domestic animals were managed in ways that
best suited the family's ability to secure the diverse needs of daily life. But
when used for the exclusive purpose of producing salable commodities,
agricultural animals may be subjected to markedly different management practices.
In particular, many contemporary animal production systems are intensive in
nature, for reasons of labor efficiency, land use, and environmental protection,
among others (Curtis, 1987).

Although it is not clear that farm animals were always or even usually
treated humanely in the past, the novelty of certain contemporary animal
production techniques has raised a question in the minds of many observers: How

7

 




 

 

 

 

C. Regulation as a Result of Ethical Concerns

 

Concerns for animal welfare may be directed to animal producers, to
consumers of animal products, or to regulatory policymakers. When directed to
producers, animal welfare concerns are intended to emphasize personal moral
obligations that individual farmers and ranchers have for assuring the well-being
of their animals. When directed to consumers, appeals to animal welfare are
intended to cause the consumer to accept a moral responsibility for any
sacrifices of animal welfare that may have been made in bringing specific animal“
products to market. ' ‘ ' '

There are a host of laws and regulations concerning aCCeptable practices for
the production and sale of animal products. While many of these deal with
consumer protection and food safety (ref.), a concern for animal welfare has been
an enduring feature of United States law, as well (AWI, 1978).W Animal welfare_:vy,
concerns affect regulatory policy in three different ways: » - '

l

-.I

1. If the interests of farm animals are taken as the basis for regulatory
policy, there may be some production practices that would be prohibited entirely.
In such instances, animal well-being would be deemed more important than any
human desire to produce or purchase the products that these practices would
provide. There is nothing particularly new about such a judgement. Farm animals
have been protected against cruel treatment since 1641 in some parts of the
United States (AWI, 1978). Humane laws always have enforced the principle that
animal well-being is more important than the human freedom to engage in or

benefit from indolent or sadistic treatment of farm animals. Laws that limit a
' farmer's treatment of animals to humane practices could be justified by a
philosophical principle that states why human freedoms or benefits are less
important than the impact of human actions upon animals in some Cases, and more
important in other cases. The phi1050phical problem is to state such a
principle. We must learn how to compare what is right and good for "animals"
with what is right and good for a cow, a pig, a chicken, in respective, specific
agricultural production settings. ’ '

2. Because regulatory policies are never formed with the benefits of
perfect knowledge or agreement of values, a second level of difficulty arises. A
welfare policy for animal agriculture must regulate a wide variety of animal
species and production environments. It must be sensitive to the facts that (a)
there is disagreement about the importance of animal interests relative to human
interests and (2) the quality and quantity of our information about what harms
farm animals changes frequently. Thus, probably what is needed is not a policy
that sets standards for weighing human and animal interests unilaterally, but
rather a policy for dealing with the conflicts and uncertainties that surround
the animal welfare issue--i.e., a policy for setting policy. The philos0phical
issue here is one of defining a regulatory process ttat, even given the
imperfections in our knowledge, will be fair to all (Jntending parties as well as
the animals themselves.

3. However, there is one key issue that undercuts all others: On what
basis do we extend direct moral consideration to farm animal interests and
well-being? Put more bluntly: Why should we care about farm animals? The
answer is important not only because it secures the motivation for moral concern
about farm animals, but also because the particular answer will shape and guide
our approach to regulatory policy in important but sometimes unobvious ways.

9

 




 

 

 

the other._ The debate is important_for two reasons: (1) It is part of a much
larger debate among philosophers as to whether consequences (which are understood
as the impact of our acts upon the experience--i.e., the welfare--of another) or
rights ought to be the basis for answering questions of moral consideration. (2)
The conceptual path one chooses by which to describe and understand the basis of
our moral consideration for farm animals has implications for the way we would
pursue a concern for farm animal well-being as a matter of regulatory policy.

B. Philosophical Ethics » m-“ I V V : 4,. _}

 

 

1. Natural Rights—

As a philosophical question, the contrast between consequences and rights
Cuts across 2000 years of inquiry into the foundation of ethics. One key
tradition in ethics locates the basis of moral duty in the fulfillment of human
potential--i.e., one's obligation to become all that one can be. But this view
of moral duty begins to take on meaning only when coupled with some vision of
what human beings can be (and therefore what we should aspire to be). The
expression of human potential requires knowledge of human nature--what we human
beings can aspire to by right of nature, by right of that which we uniquely and
naturally are. '

These concepts of human nature and natural right have been developed in
terms of a "Great Chain of Being". We attain self-knowledge by contrasting the
unique nature of human beings against (1) the natures of inanimate objects and
sentient creatures below us on the Great Chain and (2) the natures of God and the
angels--pure spiritual beings-~above. Accordingly, people have dominion over »
plants and animals, just as God has dominion over human beings, by dint of their
relative positions on the Great Chain of Being. Thus, the Great Chain concept
delimited boundaries and indicated the scope of action within which the human
will could have free reign--by natural right, human right, as it were (Lovejoy,
19xx). " .

The doctrine of rights in ethics has undergone many transformations that
have left the Great Chain of Being far behind. But rights were always
established on some foundational concept of human nature, and this concept has
often been sharpened by contrasting (in regard to human rights) or comparing (in
regard to animal rights) human beings with other animals.

2. Utilitarianism

 

Our modern tradition of welfare consequential ethics owes much to the
utilitarian writings of Jeremy Bentham (lxxx) and John Stuart Mill (lxxx). Their
works were aimed directly at what they deemed to be pernicious uses of the
concept of natural rights. Of course, natural rights had been claimed not on;
to justify human dominion over plants and animals, but the king's (ar: later the
propertied class's) dominion over other human beings (Hobbes, 19xx). The
utilitarians were social reformers who wanted to found social ethics upon the
concept of equality of interests rather than the mysterious, metaphysical concept
of natural rights. In their view, for example, there was no reason why the
well-being of a king was more important than that of a peasant.

The utilitarians also associated themselves with the broad intellectual
movement that was committed to the demystification of human nature. As such, for

11

 




well-being (i.e., welfare). Should our ethics stress abstract but deeply
reasoned and culturally informed visions of what human beings ought to be, by
right of what they--by nature and most fundamentally-~are (i.e., rights)? Or
should it stress income, ordinary satisfaction, pleasure versus pain (i.e.,
welfare)?

That is what is at stake in the philosophical debate over rights and
welfare. It touches on the basis for social power, the authority of religious
and scentific institutions, perhaps our very salvation; and the moral status of
nonhuman animals is irrevocably bound up in it in a very fundamental way.

C. EdeéﬁSBkéi§'Phiiosophy and the Animal Welfare Debate

1. Modern Utilitarians

 

The writings of Peter Singer (1975) and Michael W. Fox (1984) represent
extensions of Bentham's and Mill's concerns for suffering into the contemporary
discussion of animal agriculture. The argument they present consists of the
assertions that (1) certain contemporary farming methods cause suffering and (2)
this suffering ought to be taken into consideration at all levels of decision:
when a producer chooses an animal production technique, when a consumer purchases
an animal product, and when a regulatory policy for farm animals is set. In each
case, any suffering experienced by the animals is to be weighed against any
benefits of the production system in question, including any dietary and sensory
benefits that humans derive from using the animal products generated.

In Singer's calculation of these benefits, they are far outweighed by the
suffering farm animals experience while residing in intensive agricultural
systems. He thus concludes that consumers are obliged to become vegetarians. In
his view, this is not because it is wrong to eat meat but because our system of
animal production makes it impossible to bring meat to the table without first
subjecting the animals to unacceptable distress and pain. Of course, a less
drastic estimate of the effect of the production systems in question on the
well-being of the animals might lead one to seek reforms or to boycott certain
products, but not necessarily to become a vegetarian.

Singer's vegetariansm is "soft" in two senses. (1) A change in the circum—
stances of animal production could lead to a change in the moral justification
for vegetarianism. If he became convinced that production practices had been
modified so they were no longer cruel, he would have no reason to abstain from
eating meat. To the extent that a meat diet contributes to human health and
happiness, one would have good reason to eat it. (2) Singer's vegetarianism is a
means to the end of reducing animal suffering rather than an end in itself. As
such, it it justified only to the extent that it is effective; i.e., to the
extent that personal vegetarianism can be expected to reduce the suffering of
farm animals (Singer, 1980). Tom Regan (1980) has noted in his criticism that it
is doubtful that Singer's individual choice to boycott meat will have much effect
on animal producers, and hence on the well-being of farm animals. Vegetarianism
will become an effective means of change only if a large number of people join in
the cause. But, of course, if a sufficiently large number of people did join in,
then it would not matter either whether one person decided to sneak a steak now
and then. One individual's decision to eat meat or not is not effective, in
terms of improving the well-being of farm animals, in either case.

13

 




 

. *~.'.- ..,.. w. .

y $4!” x m N , 7-.»‘ .2: 5, , ﬂ _ A

:-
i
;,
é

 

 

 

 

itself, without regard to other Options that may or may not be available.

2. Concern for rights means that the judgement will be bimodal: lright or
wrong, permissible or impermissible; concern for welfare consequences Opens the
way for different degrees of good and bad.

3. Since welfare judgements are comparative and admit different degrees of
good and bad, ethical decision-making is a maximizing process: finding the
action with the best net welfare; on the other hand, rights represent a threshold 3
which allows any act that violates no right but prohibits any act that violates
any right. . j .. H5 . .p : - . J- . a .

51" While rights th1nking is singular in that it considers only one .
possible action at a time, it admits plural moral solutions (e. g., there may be
many possible actions that violate no one' 3 rights, all equally permissible);
however, in maximizing well-being there is usually one solution that best
satisfies the requirements for moral action.

5. To reconcile points 1 and 4, welfare maximization demands the U:
consideration of all available options, but justifies the selection of only one,:
while respect for rights permits many different courses of action, each of which '
is considered singularly on its own merits. As such, welfare-consequential
morality calls for reasoning that is hypothetical in nature, while rights
morality is relatively concrete. If one' s concept of rights is clear and sure, ”'
all the other information needed is ready at hand.

6. Welfare maximization is flexible in that what is best today may be
superseded tomorrow by an action that is even better; on the other hand, rights
are absolute, and if something is wrong today, it will still be wrong tomorrow.‘

7. Because it is hypothetical and situational, welfare-consequential
ethics is also highly empirical (i.e., a great deal depends on whom is harmed or
benefited and to what degree); conversely, although tne cannot be ignorant of
facts altogether when considering rights, deciding whether a right will or will
not be violated is primarily a conceptual inference.

8. The direction of reasoning in welfare-consequential ethics is positive
in the sense that one works toward the one solution that tells you what to do; it
is negative when considering rights in the sense that one finds what one may or
should do by eliminating the things one may not or should not do.

9. The concept of rights indicates a boundary condition under which one
may act purely at one's own discretion (i.e., one is within one's rights) so long
as the threshold that delimits the rights of another is not breached; there are
no set limits or boundaries under consequential ethics, but since one is weighing I
benefits and harms, decision-making always involves achieving a sense of balance.

E. Farm Animals: Welfare or Rights?

 

One can see how the logical characteristics of welfare and rights have an
impact on animal agriculture by examining how the commonplace moral idea that
animals should not be made to suffer needlessly would be translated into the
language of welfare and rights, respectively. Suffering carries over fairly
readily into the notion of harm that is relevant to consequential reasoning.

15

 




. ,‘mnw’ﬁvv'rwer'trvrﬁ '""'?’W"?‘."T'T

 

 

 

1983). The current movement dates back to 1964, when Ruth Harrison's book Animal
Machines: The New Factory Farming Industry was published in London. In response
to subsequent pressures from concerned citizens, including many humane activists,
the Parliament appointed a technical committee to "enquire into conditions in
intensive systems of livestock husbandry". The committee in the end recommended
that standards of care for animals in production agriculture be established
(Brambell, 1965). Soon, the United Kingdom's Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Food had named a Farm Animal Welfare Advisory Committee (later called the
Farm Animal Welfare Council). By 1968, the Parliament had passed an act that
provided for development and publication of advisory codes of practice for the
housing and management of livestock and poultry in intensive production systems.
In 1971, the first edition of those codes was issued, and a second edition has

.been issued subsequently.

In response to similar pressures in every nation of Western Europe, similar
laws have been passed and regulations promulgated in at least six other western
European nations (AWI, 1978; Harrison, 1978; Guither and Curtis, 1983). The
keeping of laying hens in cages is now being phased out in several nations; sows
may not be kept on a tether or in a crate in some countries; and the keeping of
veal calves in individual crates will soon be against the law in the United
Kingdom. Interestingly, in western Europe the trend to regulating farm animal
care is still confined to the northern, more affluent nations. Nevertheless,
both the Commission of the European Economic Community and the Council of Europe
are involved in international legislation and regulations related to farm animal
welfare (Bendixen, 1980; Hondius, 1980).

2. United States

 

"America has the distinction of being the first country to acknowledge the
rights of animals by enacting statutory legislation to protect them from cruel
treatment. In 1641 the Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony voted to have
printed their first legal code, 'The Body of Liberties'" (Leavitt and Halverson,
1978). Included is Liberty 92: "92. No man shall exercise any Tirranny or
Crueltie towards any bruite Creature which are usuallie kept for man's use."
Since that time, numerous state and federal laws dealing with the protection of
animals--including agricultural animals, sometimes specifically--have been
enacted (AWI, 1978). The most important federal statute with_respect to humane
treatment of animals, apart from the federal Humane Slaughter Act enacted in 1958
and amended in 1978, is the Animal Welfare Act, which was signed into law in 1966
and amended in 1970 and 1976. This act mandates the Department of Agriculture to
promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to the care and use of animals in
research and to the commercial transportation of animals. But the act as amended
specifically includes agricultural animals. '

In recent years, there have been proposed at both the state and federal
levels several pieces of legislation that dealt more or less directly with the
production of animals on farms. Although some of these bills and resolutions
have attracted considerable co-sponsorship, none has been enacted. In the
Congress alone, Rep. Edward Koch (D, NY) and Rep. Edward Patterson (D, NY)
proposed to establish a Commission for the Humane Treatment of Animals (H.R.
11112, 1976); Rep. Ronald Mottl (D, OH) proposed to appoint a 16-person committee
to investigate agricultural animal—production practices (H. J. Res. 305, 197x);
Rep. James Howard (D, NJ) proposed a Modern Farm Animal Practices Act (H. R.
3170, 198x) to regulate "all aspects of intensive farm animal husbandry"; and

17

 




who have no objection to animal use per se but want to ensure that abuse of
animals is minimized in general (welfarists). At the same time that this
philosophical distinction influences the motivation that particular individuals
have for seeking legislation, a second distinction affects the basis of the
legislation itself.

In constitutional democratic theory, government power can be exercised on
one of two complementary philosohical grounds. Governments are obliged to
"promote the general welfare", and this injunction is typically interpreted to
mean that governments should, so far as possible, attempt to provide the services
.and guarantees wanted by its constituents. The philOSOphical principle that
supports the government's power to take such actions is the democratic principle
of majority rule. When a majority of the politically active citizens support a
law or policy, it is the government's mandate to enact said law or policy.

There are, of course, restrictions on the principle of majority rule. The
government must not violate any of the individual guarantees stated in the Bill
of Rights, and they must not act so as to irresponsibly weaken the stability and
security of the nation. These constraints on government action may not be
supported by a majority at any given time, but government officials nevertheless
have a constitutional duty to observe them. Constitutional duties are not
limited to those explicitly acknowledged in the Constitution and its amendments;
they are generally thought to include duties that ought to have been recognized
(but have not been formalized), as well. It was on this basis that abolitionists
campaigned against slavery and suffragettes demanded the vote.

This distinction affects animal welfare legislation in two ways. First, if
there is a constitutional duty (unrecognized at present) to recognize animal
rights (or to count their welfare interests equally with those of humans), then
there is a much stronger philosophical base to support legislation than other-
wise. If animals truly do have moral rights, then one would expect that a
constitutional duty should oblige government to protect those rights. At this
point, the philosophical distinction between rights and welfare begins to make a
legislative, as well as a rhetorical, difference. It is possible (if not likely)
that the legislative or judicial branch would recognize a constitutional duty to
nonhuman animals even in the absence of broad-scale public support. Second, it
is important to note that arguments intended to point out the benefits that would
be foregone under excessive regulation of animal agriculture are perfectly
appropriate so long as the issue is interpreted as one of building majority
support for a given law; but by the same token, so are arguments couched in
purely emotional terms. If it is simply a matter of getting a majority over on
your side, it is as appropriate for people to vote their hearts as their
pocketbooks. Indeed, some have argued that the purpose of political decisionr
making is to find a way to protect values that are loved, but will never be
guaranteed by market rationality (Sagoff, 1981).

D. Politics of the Animal Welfare-Animal Rights Movement

 

1. Stated Purposes and Goals

 

Leading humane activists have lists of what they consider to be realistic
goals for their movement in terms of farm-animal well-being. Individual
activists range over a wide ideological spectrum, and many consider abolition of
human use of animals for certain purposes (e.g., use for food) to be the only

19

 




 

..w.mvsw~7-vu~unum‘ wv :- w . «:ur - r - v'

4: intent“

 

 

 

 

admirers of animals who feel obliged to do what they can to correct perceived‘
wrongs being done to animals. Others are true believers (Hoffa, 1951) whom one
might suspect came into the humane movement quite by accident while seeking some
cause-~any cause--to espouse. Some of the leaders, in alphabetical order (from
various sources, including Albright (1985), Johnson (198x-present), Quaife_
(1987), and the organizations' publications, themselves):

Robert A. Brown, a Harvard-educated zoologist and former zoo and humane-
shelter manager, established the Food Animal Concerns Trust (FACT) in Chicago in
the early 19803. FACT has published dozens of "FACT Sheet" newsletters,
reporting "data on factory farming methods" and their impact on "food quality,
food safety, and family farming", according with FACT's proclaimed purpose to
"bring such factory farming methods to an end". In 1984, FACT started the NEST
EGGS" Project and the VEAU ROSE" Project, both "intended to help family farmers
create a market for food products from [laying hens and veal calves] raised in a
decent way". FACT licenses farmers who use certain production methods to use, ,'
and helps them to promote, these trademarks, which are intended to identify for
consumers "high quality, residue-free food products from animals that lead a
normal life". FACT believes that products such as these can: "1) launch factory
farming controversies into the forefront of consumer concerns, 2) dramatize the
fact that confinement is an unnecesssary evil, and 3) pave the way for lobbying -
organizations to pass needed legislation to protect farm animals" . , ,qe

 

Michael W. Fox, a London-educated veterinarian-ethologist, serves as ‘
scientific director of the Institute for the Study of Animal Problems, a division
of the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) in Washington, DC. Formerly an
animal behavior researcher and an authority on the behavior of cats and dogs, he
has been among the most active humane activists with respect to agricultural
animals and has written several monographs on farm animal welfare that have been
published by the HSUS, including Factory Farming (1980) and Farm Animal welfare
and the Human Diet (1983), in addition to his textbook mentioned earlier (Fox,
1984}. He also has authored a number of books about animals, including several
written especially for young people, as well as a syndicated weekly newspaper
column focusing ostensibly on pet care. He freely slants his books, columns, and
frequent appearances on speaking and electronic-media programs so as to
proselytize on behalf of the animal welfare movement. For example, in one news-

paper column in 1984, he answered an inquiry from a young reader about leashes
for pet rabbits with:

 

 

 

"Bunnies have delicate necks, so indeed, with a quick twist their necks
can be dislocated, which is how rabbits are slaughtered. . . . Rabbits do
make great companions. They're sensitive, intelligent and responsive, yet
they are much abused by greyhoud trainers and laboratory researchers. Let's
give three cheers for rabbits' rights."

His book entitled Agricide, published in 1986, purported to expose and decry
a long list of ethical wrongs, economic woes, and human-health ills due to modern
production agriculture, including intensive animal production systems.

The HSUS also espouses boycotts in its activist and fund-raising activities.
In 1987, the HSUS, which had focused its previous activities in agriculture on
veal-calf production methods, mounted a campaign against egg and pork production
methods, characterizing a picture of a plate of bacon and eggs as "the breakfast
of cruelty". The lead piece in this latter campaign maintained:

21




 

 

 

 

 

 

people who refuse to eat meat in order to discourage the needless suffering of
animals."

vHenry Spira started his activist activities in the 19505, when he was a
merchant seaman. As he has recounted (Spira, 1985), in 1973 Spira became
interested in "animal liberation". First, he was interested in animals used in
biomedical research and testing. He had a series of spectacular successes in
these campaigns, crowned by the Draize test case. Briefly, a direct, sharply
focused campaign by a coalition of 407 organizations led by Spira and employing
both newspaper advertising and public demonstrations caused Revlon to donate
$750,000 to support research seeking alternatives to the Draize test. The Draize
test is a procedure that is controversial on humane grounds because it involves
introducing potentially irritating products under the eyelids of unanesthetized
rabbits but is nevertheless required by the federal government as a means of

 

. identifying proposed new products that might harm human users. Revlon was

followed soon by other cosmetics manufacturing firms in committing money to : ' .‘
support the search for alternatives to the Draize test. In Spira's words (1985),
"At this point we realized that we had the formula for liberating money from just
about every company that experiments on animals and wants to keep its image clean
with consumers." The secret of his success, according to Spira, is that, ". . .
we have justice on our side, and justice can mobilize people." Spira is
explicitly activist, rather than phiIOSOphical, in his approach. He describes a
need to fight for his cause, and devotes his energies to organizing strategic
planning and activating the animal liberation movement (Spira, 1985). In 1985,

Henry Spira turned his attention and energy to "factory farms" (Kowinski, 1985).

Christine Stevens founded two of the most influential animal welfare
organizations in the United States--the Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) and the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation, both based in Washington, DC--and
leads them to this day. She and her husband, Roger Stevens, have worked in
politics at the national level (Roger Stevens recently retired from directing the
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts). Christine Stevens has well-established
contacts with influential people in the nation's capital, and she has used them
to great advantage in pursuing her legislative agenda. The AWI is involved in
activities ranging from the welfare of whales and dolphins to the use of dogs and
subhuman primates in biomedical research to the methods used in livestock and
poultry production and transportation. The AWI publishes a quarterly newsletter,
and over a period of many years has published a series of substantial works on.a
variety of topics, including a book on animals' legal rights (AWI, 1978) and the
expose Beyond the Laboratory Door in 1985. Stevens and the organizations she
directs have been most successful in their work directly with staffers in the
legislative and executive branches of the federal government. She has been
instrumental in the construction and passage of every major Congressional bill
having to do with animal welfare for over 30 years, incuding the Humane Slaughter
Act of 1958, the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966 as well as its (renamed
Animal Welfare Act) amendments of 1970, 1976, and 1985. In a 1987 interview
(Quaife, 1987), Stevens remarked that so many elected officials and diplomatic
personnel refuse to eat veal, because of their ethical concerns about husbandry
practices, that veal is rarely served at official washington dinners nowadays,
adding "the same could easily happen with pork".

 

 

23

 




 

There is general agreement--and even Descartes would have agreed--that
animals do perceive various sensations, including pain (Kitchell and Erickson,
1983). But even today we cannot characterize animals' conscious mental
experiences directly, although there are substantial arguments based on indirect
evidence that animals possess conscious awareness of their experiences, that they
have subjective feelings, and that they can think (Griffin, 1976, 1984; Dawkins,
1980). In fact, one of Descartes's (1976) main points (viz., "Yet, although all
animals easily communicate to us, by voice or bodily movement, their natural
impulses of anger, fear, hunger and so on, it has never yet been observed that
any brute animal reached the stage of using real Speech, that is to say, of
indicating by word or sign something pertaining to pure thought and not to
natural impulse.") has been superseded by scientific findings to the contrary, as
discussed by Griffin and by Dawkins. The observations and experimental results
on subhuman primates are well-known (Goodall, 1971; Patterson and Linden, 1981),
but even chickens (Stone et al., 1984) and pigs (Jensen and Algers, 1984; Algers
and Jensen, 1985) are now believed to communicate thoughtfully within their
respective social groupings. ' ‘

What we do not know--and what needs to be learned if we are ever going to be
able to answer certain questions in both agriculture and philosophy--is how much,
if any, an animal suffers (i.e., experiences an unpleasant emotional state such
as fear, pain, frustration, or exhaustion (Brambell, 1965) beyond some (as yet
undescribed) threshold as the result of specific experiences of interest.

B. Animal Stress and Distress

43 Environmental Stress and Animal Strain

What do we know about stress in farm animals? The reader is referred to
recent treatises on this topic (Curtis, 1982; Moberg, 1985). An animal is under
stress when required to make extreme functional, structural, behavioral, or
immunological adjustments in order to c0pe with adverse aspects of its
environment. Because animals differ in the ways they perceive and respond to
environmental impingements, the very same environment can be stressful to one
individual but not to another. An environmental factor that contributes to the
stressful nature of an environment is called a stressor.

When we "measure stress in an animal" we really measure the effects of
stress: changes the stressor causes in the animal or responses the animal
invokes trying to re-establish or maintain a normal internal state in the face of.
a stressor. Scientists have been "measuring stess in animals" with increasing
frequency over the past 150 years. Effects of stress upon health and weight gain
are a primary topic of production-oriented animal science research. The next
step--the more difficult one-~is interpretation. Where does stress leave off,
and where does distress (i.e., excessive or unpleasant stress) take up? What
does it mean when an animal increases its breathing rate by 250 percent in one
environment as compared with another? Does a 65-percent increase in plasma
glucocorticoid concentration indicate the animal is under extreme stress? If so,
then how extreme?

It is the unusual moment when any animal anywhere is not responding to
several stressors at once. Stress is the rule, not the exception. And nature
has endowed animals with a marvelous array of homeokinetic reactions to these
impingements. The external environment comprises thousands of physical,

25

 




 

 

 

Specific moment.

It is a relatively simple task to subject experimental animals to a
controlled stressor and measure a resultant change in some physiological,
anatomical, immunological, or behavioral parameter. But an objective index of
stress in terms of animal health, performance, and well-being has been elusive
-(Smidt. 1983a). ‘"EV€H marked physiological change may indicate only that an
animal is successfully adapting to its environment-~not necessarily that it is
succumbing to adversity"_(Perry, 1973). Similarly, "[It] should be of no_
surprise that [animals] behave differently in different environments. This may
simply demonstrate how adaptable.they are" (Duncan, 1981). ~'v '

Environmental stress generally alters animal performance. The stress
provokes the animal to react, and this reaction can influence the partition of
resources among maintenance, reproductive, and productive functions in one or
more Of five ways (Curtis, 1983): (l) The reaction may alter internal functions
involved in productive processes. (2) The reaction may divert nutrients from use
in productive processes to use for maintenance. (3) The reaction may reduce
productivity directly. (4) The reaction may increase interindividual variation
in performance. (5) The reaction may alter disease resistance. ~ ~ —-‘-

In agriculture, it is not sufficient to be interested only in physiological,
behavioral, immunological, and anatomical indices of animals' environmental
adaptability. Another question is: How much decrement in production is
associated with residing in a particular environment? To learn the quantitative
effects of a given environment on animal performance, we still must measure the
productive traits themselves. An animal exhibiting obvious reaction to stress,
as mentioned above, is generally assumed to be having depressed performance. But
the performance loss may be reversible only by a modification of the environment
that cannot be repaid in terms of increased animal productivity. Further,
visible strain in an animal signifies that it is trying to compensate for an
environmental impingement. These attempts might succeeed, and they might
interfere with performance only slightly. Of course, the question remains as to
whether the stresses imposed by a cerain production system comprise an unaccept-
able environment in terms of the animals' overall welfare, a point to be expanded
upon later.

Fundamental to assessing welfare in a farm animal are answers to two
questions, the second of which will be exceedingly difficult to answer (Duncan
and Dawkins, 1983): (1) Does the animal have subjective feelings? (2) What
indicators reveal any such feelings? Knowledge of animals' conscious mental
experiences can be gained only via indirect experimental evidence at this time,
hence any conclusions must be considered tentative (Griffin, 1976, 1984; Dawkins,
1980). - ‘

In other words, the question is not whether animals have feelings. There is
general agreement that they do. The question is: How does the animal feel,
living in this production system or that? Ian Duncan and Marian Dawkins (1983)
believe that there are ". . . indicators that with careful experimentation we may
be able to accumulate indirect evidence about animals' subjective feelings. This
should be our ultimate aim. There are many problems but they are not
insurmountable."

 




 

 

q...
*—

 

 

that the production of calves in free-run stalls costs about 52 Dutch guilders
more (about $25 per calf). Research on 250 calves over two years showed that the
straw bedding system was too costly (Steenkamer, 1982).

In the United Kingdom, loose housing for calves in groups of 10 to 20 showed
that average growth rates were lower than with calves in individual crates, and
also it was more difficult to get all calves to market condition (Morris, 1981).
However, the ranges of profitability for the two systems overlap to such an
extent that it is not possible to draw reliable conclusions about differences in
average costs. Morris concluded that veal calves can be produced in .~
loose-housing systems with no increase in overall cost. However, Dutch studies,
from both economic and husbandry perspectives, seem to favor a modified system
that provides individual feeding stalls along with some opportunity for free
running with small groups of calves in a bedded pen (Steenkamer, 1982).

Swine Production Systems. Differences in costs for producing pigs and
handling sows under methods favored or opposed by animal welfare interests are
less-well-defined than for poultry and veal.

Morris (1981) points out that dry sows are tethered partly to prevent them -
from interfering with other sows. The alternative for the producer who cannot
put his sows out to pasture is to accommodate groups of sows in yards. The costs
differ very little between these two systems. Morris concluded that, if society. -.
chooses to outlaw the tethering of sows, it will have no detectable effect on the
price of pork; tethering of sows is intended more to improve the welfare of the
animal than to cut costs.

Carnell (1981) concluded that capital costs are much less for raising hogs
outdoors than under intensive confinement systems. However, labor costs are
believed to be greater with less intensive systems. The less intensive systems
are also viewed as presenting greater challenges to management and stockmanship.

Summary and Conclusions. Turner and Strak (1981) point out six important
economic implications of introducing more stringent codes of welfare for farm
animals in the United Kingdom. The same economic considerations would apply in
most other countries of Europe and the United States. These are:

1. The effects on the direct costs of production.

2. The adjustment costs for farmers who are required to switch to alter-

native systems of production. The amount and distribution of these
costs between farmers and over time is also critical.

3. The effects on supply as producers respond to revised welfare codes by
changing production decisions and systems.

4. The effects on the structure of the farming industry, where structure
includes the combination and use of inputs on the individual farms.

5. The effects on trading patterns--the amount and source of imports or
exports might change as a result of welfare codes revision.

6. The effects on the level of consumer prices and consumption of affected
— products.

 




organizations. Similar emphasis on research was also noted in Great Britain,
west Germany, and Scandinavia.

In Denmark, a ban on caged layers was begun to protect producers from home
backyard production of eggs. When industrial battery cages came in, producers
using them were breaking the law, but were often unaware of it. The prohibition
was repealed in 1979 at the request of the producers. The Danish Agricultural
Council represents all producer groups, and it is strongly aware of its member-
ship in the European Economy Community and the need to stay in line with EEC-wide

policy. '

West German_policy-makers face a dilemma. As a member of the EEC, West
Germany wants to stay competitive with all other countries. The German Farmers
Association represents a substantial proportion of the country's producers.
Research in poultry, hogs, and cattle is some of the most SOphisticated to be
found, with some of the most able scientists and some of the best-equipped farms
and laboratories. Funding is coming from both the German government and the EEC

. research program. The German Animal Protection League is one of the strongest in '.
E/‘Europe, with around 500,000 members. There is strong political pressure to make
' decisions before all the scientific evidence is available. As in other
countries, the major welfare issues center on caged layers, veal calf production,
and confinement hog production, especially the handling of young pigs and
tethering of sows. ,

Sweden and Switzerland, being outside the EEC, can act more independently on
their animal welfare policies. In Sweden, Ingvar Ekesbo, professor and
veterinarian, has great influence in government circles and in enforcing the
animal welfare policies. The veterinary profession plays a major role in
approving new facilities and in the decision as to whether credit can be given to
build them. Two years were required to get approval for one modern facility. In

‘ Switzerland, the Federal Veterinary Office is involved in enforcing regulations,
but the cantonal veterinarians must make final decisions. Welfare organizations
are very active. The public has given strong support to animal welfare

‘~ regulations. Small farmers, especially dairy farmers, have supported regulations
that work against intensive systems such as hen cages and intensive swine

f production. Swiss family farmers have strong support and many regulations that
control large-scale operations have little or no application to the family dairy
farmer. '

 

3. The EurOpean Community has become involved. The German Minister of
Agriculture asked the EEC Council to develOp standards for caged layers when the
German court forced him to do something about caged layers in 1979. After two
years, no final agreement has yet been reached. This slow process of policy
making in the EEC suggests that changes will come very slowly and will maintain

/j competitive conditions among all EEC producers. Again, the EEC experience
‘1 illustrates the bureaucracy-creative tendency of the animal welfare movement.

4. Animal welfare is a major issue only in those countries with affluence,
adequate food supplies, and a p0pulation that has active groups concerned with
ethical and moral issues in dealing with animals. Concern for pets and wild
animals was the first concern. Now, with newer capital-intensive production
systems for food animals, their concern has spread to farm animals as well.

 




 

., WHY 'JT~ '1‘?“

 

 

 

 

 

Producers strive to adopt the production system that will be economically
Optimal while providing the animals an existence as free of suffering as
possible. Thus, the producer's dilemma. They must decide on animal—production _
systems while constrained by humane concerns on the one hand and by the realities
of doing business in a free-enterprise milieu on the other. This dilemma will be
resoluble only if and when we know much more than we now know about animal
suffering and thus about animal well-being.

A. Unsettled Issues in Animal welfare, Animal Rights, and Animal Agriculture.“ ‘.

Any conclusion that is offered on the issue of animal well-being as it
relates to commercial animal agriculture must be qualified by the uncertainties
and Open questions that constrain our ability to act confidently. Such unsettled
issues can be divided into two general categories. The first set of questions
can, in principle, be answered by research; they call for a descriptive account
of the consequences borne by farm animals, farmers, and society at large as a
result of current animal agriculture practices, or for a prediction of the
consequences that would follow changes, whether regulated or voluntary, that
might be made in current practices. Such information is what Glenn Johnson calls
"postitivistic knowledge" (Johnson, 1987). It is the type of information
typically gathered through biological and social science research. The second
set of questions, however, is philosophical, and it concerns the very basis upon
which the well-being of animals (human and nonhuman) should be calculated.
Johnson calls this "normative knowledge", because it informs us of the goods and
duties that are worth pursuing. This knowledge of values and goals is crucial
not only for establishing policies or prescriptions, but also for determining the
very scientific (or positivistic) questions that we must ask. »

In noting unsettled scientific issues, one indicates an agenda for
scientific research. This agenda anticipates some of the ethical goals that will
be defended below. A research plan cannot be established in an ethical vacuum;
i.e., in the absence of philosophically based reflection on what it is that we
must find out before confident action can be taken. Neither, however, are values
and moral goods established in a factual vacuum. Our sense of what is good and
what is right grows out of our sense of what is possible. The interrelation
between positivistic and normative knowledge makes resolution of unsettled issues
(to the extent that resolution is possible or achievable) a dynamic process of
thinking and rethinking, a process which Johnson calls "pragmatic interaction".
Of course, thinking must start somewhere, and we start with the unsettled
scientific issues. ' ' '

1. Scientific Issues

 

As noted above, quantitative evaluation of animal suffering has proved
elusive. But the matrix consisting of productive performance, pathology, physio-
logy, and behavior provides a framework of researchable topics that promise
progress in our understanding of animal well—being. The Cartesian denial of
feeling to nonhumans is no longer plausible. An answer-~however tentative and
qualified--to the question of animal feeling, of the animal's experience of
satisfaction or want, is central to the whole issue of animal welfare and animal
rights. The question can be narrowed by focusing on the comparative impacts of
alternative production systems, since it is production systems that are most
likely to be the targets of regulatory action. However, even with such a

33




 

 

 

 

ﬁ

beliefs and assumptions may be unspoken-~perhaps even unrecognized by the
participants themselves, but nevertheless they shape the direction of the debate.’
Responsible science and responsible policy require us to state our philosophy as
explicitly as we can, and to enjoin our critics as honestly as we are able. Only
participants who have pondered the moral and philosophical context of the issues
will be able to do this consistently. Only those who have attempted to under-
stand the values and motives of their opponents will be in a position to bring
about amicable solutions. As such, although the broad philosophical questions
remain unsettled, they do not remain unresearchable. Continuing inquiry into the
philosophical“implications 65 animal welfaré“and‘animal rights'Eanwilluminate the
issue, even if it does not resolve it. This will be particularly true if
representatives of animal agriculture, veterinary and animal sciences, and
agricultural administration can make a more informed and responsive contribution'
to the debate.,

B. Goals for An Ethical Policy on the Use of Animals in Animal Agriculture

Clearly, research on the unsettled issues noted above represents the first
goal for an ethical policy on the use of animals in commercial agriculture.
Willingness to ignore both scientific and philosopical components of the animal
well-being issue places decision-makers in business, government, and in research ,
institutions in an ethically tenuous and ultimately indefensible position. Once"
the responsibiilty to address the issue has been accepted, some initial image of
the interaction between factual, positive knowledge, on the one hand, and value-
oriented, normative knowledge, on the other, must be offered to make the first
steps in addressing the difficult policy choices of the years ahead. This image
or picture of the issues is, in a sense, an hypothesis on how to proceed. Like
any hypothesis, it is open to revision as colleagues demonstrate its weaknesses
or modify it to develop new strengths. And like any hypothesis, it will have
detractors who see no value in it at all. But if we are attentive we will
benefit from their attacks.

In our view, the model of an animal welfare plateau provides the strongest
starting point for‘ESHEEBthiiiing the policy issues that lie ahead. The notion
of a plateau draws on the strengths of a rights approach because it identifies a
range of practices as unacceptable, thereby implying that no amount of human
benefit could make these practices permissible on moral grounds. The plateau
also identifies an area in which humans are unambiguously within their rights in
their management and use of animals. Since the plateau permits some use of
animals for consumption as food, we have obviously rejected the strong view of
animal rights proposed by Regan (1983), Rollin (1981), and others. The
philosophical defense of this rejection would require detailed review of their
arguments that is inappropriate in the present context. Nevertheless, we feel
that the plateau indicates (vaguely, perhaps) constraints at two levels that
could, with sufficient argument, be defended on philosophical grounds. One is
a constraint--absolute as far as commercial agriculture is concerned—-on what

ghumans can do to animals. The other is a constraint on what regulators can do to
,.producers. It is the middle ground between these two contraints that we find
imost interesting, and it is here that we expect the most difficult policy

decisions to be made.

In leaving a middle ground of marginally and questionably acceptable
practices, we indicate a range of animal agriculture pratices that probably ought
to be decided on a welfare, rather than a rights, basis. In order to decide

35

 




 

REFERENCES '

Albright, J.L. 1985. Update of the Animal welfare Issue. Paper presented
at California Animal Nutrition Conference, Fresno, 14 March 1985.

Algers, 3-. and P. Jensen. 1985. Communication during suckling in the
domestic pig. Effects of continuous noise. Appl. Anim. Behv. Sci. 14:49.

Allen, C.E. 1983. New horizons in animal agriculture: future challenges
for animal scientists. J. Anim. Sci. 57:16.

AWI. 1978. Animals and Their Legal Rights (3rd ed.). Animal welfare
Institute, Washington, DC.

Barnes, D.J. 1987. The case against the use of animals in science. In:

Advances in_Animal Welfare Science 1986/87. _ Humane Society of the United_
States, Washington, DC.

Becker, D.E. 1973. Animal Science: a look ahead. In: Papers by the
Recipients of Awards in 1972. Paul A. Funk Recognition Program. College of
Agriculture, University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign. '

Bendixin, H.J. 1980. Role of the EurOpean Commission in animal welfare.
Anim. Reg. Studies 3:153.

Black, N. 1984. Newsletter 84-6-9. Livestock Conservation Institute, S.
St. Paul, MN.

Brambell, F.W.R. 1965. Report of the Technical Committee to Enquire into
the Welfare of Animals Kept under Intensive Livestock Husbandry Systems. Cmnd.
2836. Her Majesty's Stationer's Office, London. .

.—

Campbell, J.R. and J.F. Lasley. 1985. The ScienCe of Animals that Serve
Humanity (3rd ed.). McGraw-Hill, New York.

Cole, H.H., and W. N. Garrett (eds.). 1980. Animal Agriculture: The

Biology, Husbandry, and Use of Domestic Animals (2nd ed.). Freeman, San
Francisco. .

Dawkins, M.S. 1980. Animal Suffering. Chapman and Hall, London.

Fox, M.H. 1986. The Case for Animal Experimentation. University of
California Press, Berkeley.

Fox, M.W. 1984. Farm Animals: Husbandry, Behavior, and Veterinary
Practice. University Park Press, Baltimore. 4

." 7,.4‘

3’ a .
Goodall, J. van L. 1971. In the Shadow ofiMen} "Houghton Mifflin, Boston.

Griffin, D.R. 1976. The Question of Animal Awareness. Rockefeller
University Press, New York.

Griffin, D.R. 1984. Animal Thinking. .Harvard University Press, Cambridge,‘.
MA.

37

 




 

 

 

 

 

Miller, N.E., 1985. The value of behavioral research on animals. Amer.
Psychologist 40:423. . .- h

NIH. 1985. Guide for the Care and use of Laboratory Animals. National
Institutes of Health, Washington, DC. ~'

Pacheco, A., and A. Francione. 1985. The Silver Spring monkeys. In: In
Defense of Animals. Basil Blackwell, New York.

Patterson, F. F., and E. Linden. 1981. The Education of Koko. Holt,
Rienhart and Winston, New York.

Quaife, T. ‘1987. The animal rights movement: a time bomb that keeps on
ticking. Pork '87 (February 1987):SS.

Raeburn, J.R. 1984. Agriculture: Foundations, Principles and Development.
Wiley, New York.

Rappaport, R.A. 1967. "Ritual Regulation of Environmental Relations among
a New Guinea People." Ethnology 6:17-30.

Regan, T. 1980. "Utilitarianism, Vegetarianism and Animal Rights."
Philosophy and Public Affairs 9:305-324.

Regan, T. 1983. The Case for Animal Rights. University of California
Press, Berkeley.

Regan, T. 1985. "Ethical Vegetarianism and Commercial Animal Farming,"
Today's Moral Problems. 3rd ed. (R. Wasserstrom, Ed.). '

Rollin, B.E. 1981. Animal Rights and Human Morality. Prometheus, Buffalo.

Singer, P. 1975. Animal Liberation. Random House, New York.

Singer, P. 1980. "Utilitarianism and Vegetarianism," Philosophy and Public
Affairs 9:325-337.

Smith, R. 1984. Behaviorist suggests husbandry methods can fit both the
animals and farmers. Feedstuffs (12 November 1984):4.

Smith, R. 1986. Farm raiders do damage, '1iberate' turkeys in California.
Feedstuffs (1 December 1986):xx.

Spedding, C.R. W. 1973. The meaning of biological efficiency. .In: The
Biological Efficiency of Protein Production. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, UK.

Spedding, C.R.W. 1984. Uses, products and roles of the animal. In:
Development of Animal Production Systems. Elsevier, Amsterdam.

Spira, H. 1985. Fighting to win. In: In Defense of Animals. Basil
Blackwell, New York.

 




MACK C. WOODARD
Route 3. Box 60
Trenton, Missouri 64683

-———-——_

Telephone (816) 359-6733

March 28, 1988

Me. Chrietine Stevene
iimal Welfare Inetitute

1686 84th Street, N.W.

Weehingten, D.C. 20007

Dear Chrietine:

I appreciate the time you devoted to the ALOT Cleee while we were in
Washington. Our views have very little common ground, but I rue>ect your right
to differ. I hcpe you sometime can realize your concepLe of how productien
agriculture eperetee and the proposed practicee veu advocate can not be
blended into an financially efficient production unit.

Sincerely, , l
/‘"/"7/:<//r Cw" {77/44

Meek Woodard

 




 

Letters to the Editor

 

"in
\lyi’: E! #311”? i 5.1%. W" W

‘5 :4 " a
Win} (we? 3; , i a; i /

Conducting Science Merci fully

. Science and its progress never have
been attacked by me or my associates
(“Science Under Attack." editorial. June
16). The issue is the responsible. decent.
- honest and effective conduct of science.
The organizations in which I have served
as a full-time volunteer for the past 30oodd
years. the Animal Welfare Institute and
the Society for Animal Plotective Legisla-
tion. are anti-cruelty. not anti'vivisection
groups. My duties as an officer in both or
ganizations have required my presence at
official meetings and hearings where Dr.
Michael DeBakey also was present. But on
no occasion have I ever entered into a per-
sonal conversation with him regarding the
medical treatment of any member of my
family. much less come “up to him to say
howmuch his medical breakthroughs had
meant to [my] husband." as your editorial
falsely states.

It is absurd to suggest. as this self-serv-
ing fantasy goes on to claim. that I could
be “flustered" by news about animal ex.
perimentaiion. As the daughter of a physi-
ologist who used experimental animals.
and as a co~founder with him and other sci.
entists of the Animal Welfare institute. l
have spent 35 years,in the study of need-
less animal suffering in laboratories and
ways to prevent or alleviate it.

. I hope further commentary on labora-
tory animals by the Journal will follow
normal procedures for checking for accu-
racy. My name is Christine. not Helen.

CHRISTINE STEVENS

President

Animal Welfare Institute

Washington

* 'l' *

No one is suggesting. through my legis-
lation. that critical laboratory research
into the medical mysteries of our time
should stop. HR. 778 would prevent the use
only of those animals that are taken from
shelters. The availability of most random-
source animals. including those procured
through - newspaper advertisements and
those obtained from. for example. litters of
dogs or cats that have bred repeatedly on
farms. would not be affected. ’

~ The other major category of laboratory '

animalsis purpose-bred animals. As the
name implies. these are raised in colonies

solely for use in biomedical research. The '

argument that using only purpose-bred and

non~shelter, random-source animals in re~-~

search would drive up the cost of this re
search prohibitively is a simple fallacy. as
Dr. DeBakey should know. Again. most
random-source animals still could be used
in labs- .
Laboratory research must go on. but'it

is important that we reach a middle

ground on this matter. Once the biomedi-
cal-research community accepts the fact
that shelter animals do not belong in re-
search labs, we will take a step toward
forging a compromise between those who
would not alter animal-research policy at,
all and those who would end research on
animals altogether. .. . w:

ROBERT J. MRAZEK. iD.. N.Y.l
U.S. House of Representatives
Washington '

ﬁr * ‘I

' Your editorial contains an inaccurate
and misleading anecdote attributed to Dr.
DeBakey. Christine Stevens is not an ani-
mal-rights advocate. However. she cer-
tainly has been one of the most influential
and effective campaigners on behalf of im-
proved weifare for animal‘s. She never has
denied the need to' use animals in research
and it is. therefore. extremely unlikely that
she would be flustered that her husband's
surgery should have been based on knowl-
edge acquired from animal studies.

 

 

 

Your anecdote raises further concerns
Dr. DeBakey and Mrs. Stevens are cur
rently both on a National Academy of Sci-
ences panel that is cioSe to completing a
report on the animal-research issue. It is
surprising that Dr. DeBakey should have ,
related an anecdote that calls into question
Mrs. Stevens‘s consistency and logic. in

. doing this. Dr. DeBakey is not acting as a

colleague. and I also imagine that he is not
acting in accord with the normal standards
of behavior expected of NAS panel mem-
bers. '

Finally. animal research is a difficult
and contentious issue. Society. via its dem~
ocratic institutions. is struggling to bal~
ance the human need for greater biological
understanding with the human responsibil-
ity to protect research animals from un- ‘
necessary suflering and death. Pressure
for the reevaluation of current practices is

not only coming from a fringe group of ani- .

mal-loving "misanthropes." but also from
an increasing number of scientists who are
questioning some of the things that are
done to animals. This is a healthy trend
since it will reduce animal use and suf.
fering. and lead to better science.
ANDREW ROWAN
Director. Tufts Center for Animals
Tufts University
North Grafton. Mass.

* * *

Any humane society or city pound that
releases pets to laboratories violates the
public trust inherent in the term “animal
shelter." Research has shown thatmany

individuals choose to abandon unwanted '

dogs and cats rather than bring them to a
“shelter" that sells pets to biomedical re-
searchers. For example. since the City of
Los Angeles repealed an ordinance in 1981
requiring shelters to send animals to re-
search laboratories. the number of animals
brought to city shelters each year has
steadily increased. No such increases oc-
curred in the decade prior to 1981.
' JOHN F. KULLBERG
- President
American Society for the Prevention
‘ _ of Cruelty to Animals
New York

* * *

As proponents of animal rights. my wife
and I have contacted local governments.
written newsletters. advertised in local
newspapers. organized and attended public
meetings. circulated petitions. successfully
fostered a local animal-control ordinance.
distributed literature. and solicited and
contributed money. We. and the many who
have worked with us. don’t fit the reaction—
ary picture You paint. Instead. the vast
majority of those who support humane

' treatment of animals understand that care-

ful and humane use of them in research is
important to science.

Lasua R. INGLIS
Cincinnati

g. * *

I have a mother in the terminal stages

‘of cancer who has gained several years of

life from recent advances in medical re
search. I work for a biotechnology com-
pany responsible for some of these ad.
vances. I have a dog. somewhat sickly.
who also has benefited from research on
other. perhaps less loved. dogs. Yet I have
profound doubts-as I daily walk through
our laboratories and observe the death and
well-meant torture of a variety of crea.
tures-tbat this research is at all a proper
thing to do. i think it no more moral that
an animal die in a pound than in a labora-
tory. but I cannot avoid knowing the sui-
ferings that precede death in the lab.

GERALDINE KEMSKE
Melrose. Mass.

‘3‘“

 




26:

THE WALL _SIREET_JOURNAL TUESDAY, JUNE l6.

 

1/91.. LXXIX NO. 116 at at {—

Wilma ourLook ,

 

‘0

. Dr. Michael DeBakey, the world-
renowned pioneer in open-heart sur-
gery,»is deeply troubled about the fu-
ture of medical science. Not that the
quality of people in the field is decilin-
ing'or even that too little money is be-
ing.~ spent. What Dr. DeBakey Worries
about is that animal~rights groups are
dangerously close to pricing many im-
portant medicafresearch projects out
of “existence. ‘ -

Scientists on the cutting edge of the
biotechnology revolution are encoun-
tering similar opposition. An experi-
mentto test the frost-fighting abilities
of genetically engineered bacteria
was disrupted in California recently
when; vandals uprooted 2,000 of the
tests 2,400 strawberry plants.

Together, these issues raise. the
question of 'whether the U.S. will con-
tintie to be a world leader in scientific
progress, or whether groups of neo-
Luddites will be able to impede that
. process under false theories of envi-
ronmental concern and the “rights” of
nature. If these groups succeed in

raising significant political barriers to .

U.S.' science, the scientists will take
their research and its benefits over-
seas, Some already have.
., Many animal-rights activists say
they.’ only want lab animals treated
humanely, and they already have per-
suaded six states to bar the use of
pound animals in medical research.
But others believe it is immoral to kill
any living thing and their tactics
range from “freeing" animals housed
in laboratories to breaking into facili-
ties and stealing records. The costs of
these attacks combined with the fear
of legal and illegal harassment al-
ready have slowed or stopped impor-
tant medical-research projects.

More recently, similar groups have
expanded their efforts to assault ge-
netic engineering, using the technol-
ogy’s newness as a weapon. By rais-
ing “fears” and staging melodramatic
demonstrations, the anti-biotech agita-
tors have managed to attract media
attention to arguments that scientifi-
cally are quite weak. ;

The latest effort to curtail animal
research is a bill‘ introduced by Rep.
Robert Mrazek (D., N.Y.), which

would ban the use of pound animals -

q for any research funded by the Na-
tional Institutes of Health. Unneces-
sary abuses in the treatment of labo-
ratory animals probably do occur oc-
casionally. But the irony in Rep. Mra-
zek’s proposal, which would require
the use of expensive laboratorybred

Science Under Attack

animals, is that it won’t save a single
animal. Rather, more animal deaths
seem likely to occur.

Pounds and Shelters take in seven
million abandoned dogs every year,
five million of which have to be killed.
Why is it more moral to let them die
in a pound instead of in a laboratory
where they may advance medical
knowledge? After all, humans are not
the only beneficiaries of laboratory re-
search. Today millions of pets can be
treated for heart disease, leukemia or
kidney failure solely as a result of ex-
periments based on animal research.
Some animal~rights activists can’t
seem to remember that.

Dr. DeBakey tells of the time when
he testified before Congress against a

bill requiring federal animal-welfare

standards. Helen Stevens, a leading
animal-rights activist, came up to him
to say how much his medical break-
throughs had meant to her husband,
Roger Stevens, head of the Kennedy
Center in WaShington. Mr. Stevens

had successfully undergone a coma -

nary-bypass operation. “I thanked
her, but said the research that saved
her husband’s life would not have
been possible without the ready avail-
ability of animals for medical re.
search,” recalls Dr. DeBakey. “Mrs.
Stevens became a little flustered and
ended the conversation.”

Many of us now take for-granted
the medical breakthroughs that have

made living into one’s later years .

something to look forward to. Small-
pox, diphtheria, whooping cough and
polioare all scourges that are under
control, but which might not be witlr
out the benefits of medical research
on animals. The biotechnology re-
search being conducted now on agri-

cultural plants in California is only -:

the initial point of a process of discov-

ery that could benefit not only people

living in the relative affluence of the
West but in poor countries as well.
There well may be small but
highly vocal groups of individuals in
the West who’ve decided that life is as
good as it’s going to get and that the
scientific frontier is a fearful and dan-
gerous place. While their expressions

' of concern sometimes have a superfi~

cial populist appeal, it is important
that the rest of the public attempts to
inform itself about the purposes of
modern scientific endeavor. Not
knowing what science is doing makes
it more likely that the no—nothings will
retard the delivery of science’s bene
fits to man. ‘ .

 

 

1987

 

 

 

 




The Presidential Medal of Freedom Citation

"A quarter of the time I have big hits; a quarter of the
time artistic successes; a quarter of the time the critics
were crazy; and a quarter of the time I was crazy. It
figures out pretty well that way."

This humble assessment is by Roger L. Stevens himself,
chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, real estate giant, chairman of the first National

Council on the Arts, and producer of more than 200 plays;

including such American classics as Cat on a Hot Tin Roof

and West Side Story. Roger Stevens may be humble, but his

achievements have enriched our nation’s culture beyond

measure .

 




(Ro. ison/ARD)
January 7, l988
3:45 p.m.

PRESIDENTIAL REMARKS: DINNER HONORING ROGER STEVENS
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1988

Thank you, and good evening to you all. Special regards, of
course, to Roger, Christine, and their family.

Roger, you were thrilled some 40 years ago when the New York
Times gave a good review to your first Broadway production. And
by the way, I can understand that -- since taking this job I've
found out just how hard it is to get a good review from the

New York Times. But tonight, Roger, we're giving your entire

 

life a review. And, Roger -- it's a rave.

Born in Detroit and educated at Choate, Roger's schooling
was cut short by the Depression. He spent 5 years at odd jobs.
He pumped gas. He worked on the assembly line in a Ford factory.

He spent 6 months in real estate and earned not a penny. Some

say he kept himself in pocket money mainly by playing bridge,

blackjack, and poker.

Then in 1934, Roger sensed that certain old apartment
buildings were undervalued, put money into them, and launched his
first brilliant career, in real estate. Soon he had holdings
~across the country -- Detroit, New York, Seattle. During the
War, he spent 2 years at a naval air station in Florida -— and
took the opportunity to look into Florida real estate. When the
War ended, he bought three hotels in Florida and one in South
Carolina.

By the mid-1950's, Roger's holdings qualified him as a

tycoon, a magnate, a hard-driving real estate giant. But not his

 




3:. ..'« wa ..
him. And always, a sense of fun.

In the words of a banker who worked with Roger in those
days: "Business is a game to him.... He makes it fun for you,
too, because in dealing with him you never have to concern
yourself about what you'll get out of it.... As a matter of
fact, you sometimes wonder if he's keeping track of how he‘ll
come out himself."

It's significant that when Roger bought the Empire State
Building, the room he selected for his office -- there, in what
was then the tallest, most glamorous building on Earth -- the
room that Roger selected for his office was a cubbyhole that used
to belong to a window-washer. Roger kept his files in cardboard
boxes scattered around on the floor.

But as I said, real estate was only the first of Roger's
brilliant careers. His second, as a New York theatrical
producer, got started in 1949, when Roger staged Shakespeare's
"Twelfth Night." The show ran for 48 performances. Roger lost
just a little less than $1,000 on each.

But it was up from there -— up and up and up. In the
fifties and early sixties, Roger had as many as 10 shows on
Broadway a year. He produced playwrights from around the
world —- the Frenchman, Giraoudoux; the Swiss playwright,
Durrenmatt; the Welsh poet, Dylan Thomas; and the Englishmen,

Shaffer, Bolt, and Pinter.

Yet it is for his contributions to American theater that

Roger should, perhaps, be most honored. This is the man who

 




Pro uted ”Bu 9 -Q,' 5: “'il?«- !.4 ° “Tea an”

Robert Anderson; and "Cat on I Tin Roof," by Tennessee
Williams. And, ladies and gentleman, Roger Stevens is the man
who backed a crazy idea to update "Romeo and Juliet" and place it
in New York -- backed the idea even after another producer pulled
out. After three decades, the mere mention of that Show still
has the power to thrill. It was called... "West Side Story."

By the way, through much of this period, Roger remained an
active player in the real estate market. There‘s a story about a
theatrical director who needed to speak to Roger about a leading
lady. When he was told that Roger was in a banker's meeting
about a multi-million dollar loan for a building Roger had under
construction, the director exclaimed: "How can anybody bother

about a hole in the ground when we're casting!"

But there's still a third brilliant career to speak of. For

it was in 1961 that President Kennedy asked Roger to see what he
could do about founding a national center for the arts here in
Washington. And I might add that we Republicans were especially
happy to see Roger take on the assignment. You see, it cut into
the time he'd been using to raise money for the Democrats.

But in Roger's words: "I thought it was a shame that the
world's richest nation did not have a decent place for the-
performing arts.... I thought I'd... put it together in 3 or
4 years and go back to New York. But it took 10 years to get the
darn thing built, and then somebody had to run it. So there I

was."

 




dation's
premier cultural ' ' ' . And more than 20 years later,
Roger, there you still are.
Now, Roger, if I may, I'd like to ask you to join me here at
the podium.
Roger Stevens, on behalf of a grateful Nation, I present to

you this Nation's highest civilian honor, the Medal of Freedom.

And now, permit me to read the citation: “5, ‘ }

CL” ("CH C. VB ’1 W it?
[The President does so.] _
W8 11 Wﬂtéig/Ck (
Congratulations, Roger, and thank you all.

 

 




\ \é '
Certiﬁcate of Membershlp

 

American Farmland Trust

Member

 

 

 

5:35.33. '.
. ....5-.. ' . . u. “‘ {Tm-J», “H ... . m
' . ..=L- 1m: 1:3. :3 it ww'aerizz.
l

i". . .. '.»' ‘ '3
{I} ' ' g; 3“!” Wu

Category: Expires:
.2. “0...! T :~. f“.
{rib i .L (V51: 2‘

1920 N Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20036

Thank you for your membership
support of the only national private
organization dedicated to preserving

America’s farmlands.

:lmml‘an farmland That
1920 N Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036

 




w}? ﬁﬁgéﬁm kai’ﬁﬁg ~~m~l. .mwm
and Tnm‘ 1 N Street, NW Suite 400
Was/2 z'nglon DC 20030
ﬂ%2705Q5]ﬂ9

 

Dear Member,

Thank you for joining the American
Farmland Trust. I am pleased to add your
name to our growing roster of members.

Soon you'll be receiving the AFT bi-
monthly newsletter, Eagmlandd through which you
will learn of the farmland preservation initia-
tives being undertaken with your assistance.

Right now there are two special ways yOu
can lend additional_assistance to AFT's efforts
to address the mounting farmland problem in
this country. May I suggest that you:

1. A a "e e a e " r
community. I'd appreciate receiving
clippings of any relevant informa-
tion on the subject of disappearing
farmlands. This type of field
intelligence will keep our staff
abreast of what is happening in your
area and help us in the formulation
of possible solutions.

Se he ame rie
associates who share you: cgnyig-
tigns on the farmland crisis. We'd
like to acquaint your associates
with the programs AFT is developing.
With your help -- and that of your
fellow members -- AFT could double
its membership in a few short months.
Simply fill in your names on the
reverse side of this letter and re-
turn them in the postage-paid enve-
lope. Thanks for helping AFT grow.

 




Finally, please feel free to write me
with your comments and suggestions for im-
proving AFT's program services.

The threat to farmland is real and per-
vasive. ~Thanks to your help and involvement,
AFT is taking bold, effective steps to stem
the alarming loss of the land that feeds
America.

Appreciatively,

Qﬂk

Ralph E. Grossi
President

A copy of the fast financiai report fifed with the New York Depariment of State may be obtained by writing to New York State,
Department of State, Office of Charities Registration, Aibany, N)!" “£2233 , or Amarican Farmiamﬁ has:

FEFQJBS

 




Stevens’ Executive Hurrah
Reagan Bestows the Medal of Freedom

 

By Donnie Radcliffe

Washington Post Staff Writer

 

Repn' rated from yesterdayis late editions

President Reagan Wednesday night pre-
sented the Medal of Freedom to Roger L.
Stevens, retiring chairman of the board of
trustees of the Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts.

“A quarter of the time I have big hits; a
quarter of the time artistic successes; a quar-
ter of the time the critics were crazy; and a
quarter of the time I was crazy. It figures out
pretty well that way,” Reagan quoted Stevens
as saying.

When Reagan had finished, and had handed
Stevens the medal, Stevens said, “Well.”

Characteristically.

A man of few words, usually mumbled-as
his friends like to point out—Stevens eventual-
ly elaborated with equally characteristic humil-
ity.

“I’m deeply honored. It sort of boggles the
mind. I feel most humble,” he said looking at
the medal, the highest honor a civilian can
receive. “Besides, it’s so beautiful. I’ve never
seen anything quite like it.”

At times it sounded as if the 250 political,

' artistic, social and diplomatic guests had never
seen anyone quite like Stevens.
, All over the Four Seasons Hotel ballroom,
people like choreographer Agnes De Mille,
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, playwright Arthur
Kopit, composer Gian Carlo Menotti and Ste-
vens’ coproducer Robert Whitehead were pop-
ping up, called upon by emcee George Stevens
Jr. to praise the 7 7-year-old Stevens for almost
single-handedly transforming Washington from
a provincial desert into a cultural oasis.

President Kennedy named him chairman of
the National Cultural Center in 1961. It fell to
Stevens to raise donations to build the center.

“We Republicans were especially happy to
see Roger take on the assignment,” Reagan
said in his tribute. “It cut into the time he had
been using to raise money for the Democrats.”

Historian Daniel J. Boorstin, former li-
brarian of Congress, added to the portrait
being painted by calling Stevens “unique
among our public citizens, for he has served
our capital city by transcending it. In a city
of too many words, he has been a shaper of
acts, a sponsor of music, an opener of
dramatic vistas . . . Roger will speak to
future generations in the voices of our
nation’s great actors and actresses, the
sounds of music and the sights of dance . . .”

John Kennedy had that in mind when he
said he was “certain that after the dust of
centuries has passed over our cities we too will
be remembered not for our victories or defeats
in battle or in politics, but for our contribution
to the human spirit.”

“I believe President Kennedy would have

 

 

said his greatest gift to America was Roger
Stevens,” said Ted Kennedy, a member of the
center’s board of trustees, which hosted
Wednesday night’s dinner.

Giving Stevens a musical tribute was violin-
ist Isaac Stern, who said, “Roger was one of
the very first to understand the essence of
support was to give artists the right to fail, was
to give them the possibility to try. It was a
revolutionary idea.” '

At dinner, Stevens shared a table with
Nancy Reagan, actor Rex Harrison, dinner
cochair and trustee Marion Jorgensen, long-
time center supporters Oatsie Charles and
Jean Kennedy Smith, trustee Lew Wasserman
and White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker.

For Baker, the evening held a different
perspective from the one he had after an
early-morning call telling him that President
Reagan had been ill during the night.

“My wife was in the hospital in Florida, my
mother was sick in Nashville, the president
was upstairs throwing up and my dog had to go
to the vet,” Baker said before the party got
underway. “It’s a lot funnier now than it was at
6:30 this morning.”

Art Buchwald said he was grateful to Ste-
vens not only for putting Washington on the
cultural map, but for building “someplace to
get out of the cold. If it weren’t for Roger,
we’d be watching the National Symphony on
the Mall.”

All the assembled artistic talent must have
put ideas into the head of Mayor Marion
Barry. He said he hadn’t yet mentioned it to
Stevens, who produced more than 200 plays in
addition to making a fortune in real estate, but
“One of my fantasies some day is to get
somebody to write a part for me in a play. I
can’t sing and I can’t dance, but I think I can
speak some dramatic part. Part of my job now
is not acting but giving impressions.”

The mayor had no timetable for his theat-
rical career and said he was undecided about
seeking reelection to a fourth term but would
make up his mind in another year.

Martin Feinstein, who was the center’s
executive director of performing arts for eight
years, offered a little-known glimpse of Ste-
vens. The two met regularly on Wednesdays
and, Feinstein said, it wasn’t uncommon for
him to tell Stevens they couldn’t meet the
center’s payroll that week.

“So he’d come up with $40,000 of his own
money,” Feinstein said.

At the end of the evening, after seeing the
Reagans off, Stevens and his wife Christine
worked their way through an admiring crowd
eager to see up close the prestigious Medal of
Freedom, which Stevens was carrying in its
box. He reluctantly handed it to one man.

“Just don’t lose it,” Stevens warned.

 

 

THE WASHING?

 

 

x

 

 

By Chuck Con

Washington Post Staff,

 

Texas playwright Lar
rehearsal at New Playwri
the debut of his new play, ‘
Williams Died,” and he’s
production. When King wr‘
ing role, he had in mind
sythe, the actor who won a
playing the sheriff in Kin
Broadway smash, “The-Be
house in Texas.” Forsythe
television commitment th
from appearing in the play
Feb. 3 through March 5.

New Playwrights’ Artisti
Frisch said he and King
actors here and in New Yo
Gus, the aging, worn-dow
Sundowner Recreational C
read with the actors, F ;
nine-tenths of the time he
interesting.” Frisch told“.
damn good actor” and tal .
ing the role. Mark John _
DuVall, a Helen Hayes A’
the leads in the play. ‘

Out and About

The reserved hotel sui ’
sary and neither was the f-
snow-will-never-stop-thi ‘
Shortly after midnight ye
Woman” Lynda Carter ga
en-pound son at the Colum
Women. The father, Was
Robert Altman, who is also ‘
American Corp., said the;
named James Clifford Alt .
name is in honor of former p

 

By GB. Trudeau

 

Maw YOUR SOUL IN
MLL Grown/”a VA
EACHL/FE. WEN, ,
3 W 7H5 20m cav- 0F
: war, you war/sum 77;!

0

UNIVERSAL miss wuorcue c 1988

 

/-/5

 




THE WASHINGTON POST

 

By Chuck Conconi

Washington Post Staff Writer

 

If Las Vegas oddsmaker Lenny Del Genie
knows what he’s talking about, the much-dis-
cussed movie “Broadcast News” is a cinch to
lead the way in this year’s Academy Award
nominations when they are announced Feb.
17. Not only does he expect the film to receive
a number of nominations, he thinks it will win
e. wards in five of the six major categories.

Del Genio, who is manager of the Frontier
Iotel race and sports book, says that at the
‘ pril 11 Oscar ceremonies, “Broadcast News”
:. even money to be named best picture of the
And he predicts the film’s leading per-
i"'rmers, William Hurt and Holly Hunter, will

he the best actor and best actress honors,

d James Brooks as best director. For best
‘* Siipporting actress, he gives the nod to Anjeli-
~. ea Huston for her performance in “The Dead.”

(hit and About

' Roger Stevens, the man who sat down with
President Kennedy to work out the building of
a performing arts center on the banks of the

 

Freeidential Medal of Freedom tonight from
President Reagan. Stevens, who is retiring as
chairman of the Kennedy Center, will be pre-
sented the nation’ 3 highest civilian award at a
black—tie, celebrity-studded dinner at the Four
Seasons Hotel hosted by the president and First
Lady Nancy Reagan . . .

Mr. Blackwell has released this year ’s list of
the wor id’s worst-dressed women, and Lisa

currently starring in her own series “A Different
Wdrid " is right there at the top. The reason,
3‘33,

tracula’ s idea of a good time." The list
-s some other familiar names: in Order,

 

th Albert Brooks as best supporting actor

Petomac, which was later named in the assas:
slanted president’s honor, will receive the

UNITED PRESS lNTERNATIONAL

LISA BONET

Diane Keaton; Justine Bateman; Cyndi Lau-
per and Cher, tied for fourth; Princess Stepha-
nie; Shelley Long; Joan Collins; Sally Keller-
man; Meg Ryan; Sonia Braga; and Susan
Sullivan. . .

Royal Watch: Here’s something you proba-
bly didn’t know about Princess Diana. While
she was planting a tree for charity this week,
she nodded to theatrical producer Lucinda
Craig Harvey, a trustee of a leukemia charity
for children, and said, “I used to char [clean]

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1988 03 7

for this lady.” Harvey explained, “She [Diana]

was my cleaning lady for a year. I shared a ﬂat ‘
with her sister Sarah . . . in 1979 or 1980 . . .

She was very good.” But then you could have
guessed that. . .

Hospital Report: Either Japanese Prime“
Minister Noboru Takeshita, who is on his first
official visit to Washington, or'a member of his
party is expected to drop by Walter Reed ‘
Hospital to visit Mike Mansﬁeld, who has
been ambassador to Japan for a decade. The
84~year~old Mansfield, a former Senate majori—
ty leader, is recovering from heart bypass
surgery there and is expected to remain in the
hospital another two weeks . . . Joy Baker,
the wife of White House chief of staff Howard
Baker, is in a Miami hospital being treated for
complications from a chest cold. White House
spokeswoman Leslye Arsht said. Baker was
admitted after developing a chest cold further
complicated by previous lung surgery . . .
Actress Ava Gardner has been in St. John’s
Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica
for the past week undergoing treatment for a
recurring respiratory problem. The former
Hollywood sex goddess, who was once married
to Frank Sinatra, lives in London but comes to
the United States for treatment. A heavy
smoker, she was hospitalized in St. John’s in
1986 for treatment for viral pneumonia . . .
Media mogul Rupert Murdoch is in Aspen
Valley Hospital, where he is recovering from
knee surgery following a skiing accident there
over the. weekend in which some ligaments’
were torn . . . ’

Game show host Bob Barker is a man of his
beliefs. After 21 years as master of ceremo-
nies of the Miss Universe beauty pageant, he
has resigned because the officials insist on
giving away a fur coat on the show. Barker, an.
animal rights activist, said pageant officials had?
promised they would not give away a fur coat -
but have decided to present one to the winner
of the March 1 pageant, which will be televised
from El Paso . . .

\__ .

 

 




T“ ‘71,? 1
u :‘u\ VILL.

Thank you, and good evening to you all. Special regards, of
course, to Roger, Christine, and their family.
Roger, you were thrilled some 40 years ago when the New York

Times gave a good review to your first Broadway production. And

by the way, I can understand that -- since taking this job I've

4

found out just how hard it is ‘ a good review from the

New York Times. But tonight, . we're giving your entire

 

~life a review. And, Roger -- 5 rave.

'Born in Detroit and educated at Choate, Roger's schooling
"as cut short by the Depression. He spent 5 years at odd jobs.
He pumped gas. He worked on the assembly line in a Ford factory.
He spent 6 months in real estate and earned not a penny. Some
say he kept himself in pocket money mainly by playing bridge,
blackjack, and poker.

Then in 1934, Roger sensed that certain old apartment
buildings were undervalued, put money into them, and launched his
first.brilliant career, in real estate. Soon he had holdings
'across the country -- Detroit, New York, Seattle. During the
War, he spent 2 years at a naval air station in Florida -- and
took the opportunity to look into Florida real estate. When the
War ended, he bought three hotels in Florida and one in South

Carolina.

By the mid-1950's, Roger's holdings qualified him as a

tycoon, 3 magnate, a hard-driving real estate giant. But not his

 




v—. '\
‘ .—4

#— -..v~
N
a...’-- o

In the words of a banker who worked with Roger in
days:' "Business is a game to him.... He makes it fun
too, because in dealing with him you never have to concern
yourself about what you'll get out of it.... As a matter of
fact, you sometimes wonder if he‘s keeping track f how he'll
come out hims

It's significant that when Roger bought the
Building, the room he selected for his office --
was then the tallest, most glamorous building on
room that Roger selected for his office was a cubbyhole that used
to belong to a window-washer. Roger kept his files in cardboard
boxes scattered around on the floor.

But as I said, real estate was only the first of Roger's
brilliant careers. His second, as a New York theatrical
producer, got started in l949,-when Roger staged Shakespeare's
"Twelfth Night." The show ran for 48 performances. Roger lost
just a little less than $1,000 on each.

But it was up from there —— up and up and up. In the
fifties and early sixties, Roger had as many as 10 shows on
Broadway a year. He produced playwrights from around the
world -- the Frenchman, Giraoudoux; the Swiss playwright,
Durrenmatt; the Welsh poet, Dylan Thomas; and the Englishmen,
Shaffer, Bolt, and Pinter.

Yet it is for his contributions to American theater that

Roger should, perhaps, be most honored. This is the man who

 




’l

H
or wooog—a-lh-fv‘v

ladies and gentleman, Roger Stevens is the man
who backed a crazy idea to update "Romeo and Juliet" and place it
in New York —— backed the idea even after another producer pulled
out. After three decades, the mere mention of that Show still

power to thrill It was called... "West Side Story."

through much of this period, Roger remained an
the real estate market.' There‘s a story about a
tor who needed to speak to Roger about a leading

lady. When he was told that Roger was in a banker's meeting

about a multi—million dollar loan for a building Roger had under

construction, the director exclaimed: "How can anybody bother

'”

about a hole in the ground when we're casting.

But there's still a third brilliant career to speak of. For

it was in 1961 that President Kennedy asked Roger to see what he
could do about founding a national center for the arts here in
Washington. And I might add that we Republicans were especially
happy to see Roger take on the assignment. You see, it cut into
the time he'd been using to raise money for the Democrats.

But in Roger's words: "I thought it was a shame that the
world's richest nation did not have a decent place for the
performing arts.... I thought I'd... put it together in 3 or
4 years and go back to New York. But it took l0 years to get the

darn thing built, and then somebody had to run it. So there I

was."

 




there you still are.
Now, Roger, if I may, I'd like to ask you to join me here at
I present to
¥\‘_“
1!

/

podium.
on behalf of a grateful Nation,
this Nation's highest civilian honor, the Medal of Freedom.
'- V! -1 "V (12+

I

Roger Stevens,

imit me to read the citation:

now, pe
[The President does 50.]

Congratulations, Roger, and thank you all.

 




The Presidential Medal of Freedom Citation

"A quarter of the time I have big hits; a quarter of the
time artistic successes; a quarter of the time the critics
were crazy; and a quarter of the time I was crazy. It
figures out pretty well that way."

This humble assessment is by Roger L. Stevens himself,
.chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, real estate giant, chairman of the first National

Council on the Arts, and producer of more than 200 plays,

including such American classics as Cat on a Hot Tin Roof

and West Side Story. Roger Stevens may be humble, but his

achievements have enriched our nation’s culture beyond

measure .

 




if...“

Utile j. a was I ‘"

I

f
(33 .r
.. , 53

~— ,.,

W

Crowding a source of concern

 

 
   

 
   

BosIc rights sought for farm animals

CHICAGd (Reuter) -- The pigs are
bored, the chickens suffer from heat
stress, and 'it’ 5 too draughty for the
cows. .

That’s th situation down on the
farm nowad ys, according to “animal
rights” actiVists whose campaign to
change things could prove a costly
headache to farmers.

The issue was in focus this week in
a session 0% animal care and welfare
during the annual meeting of the
American Society of Agricultural
Engineers. !

Opponent of drastic reforms say
they would arply curtail food output
and cost farmers millions'of dollars.
They also argue that it is in the farm-
er’s best irterests to look after his
animals, a the more healthy and
contented t y are, the more produc—
tive they ar likely to be.

The acti sts are demanding five
basic “righ ” for animals: the free-
dom to get pp, lie down, turn around,
stretch, and room or preen.

They cite some of the conditions
farm animaLs have to put up with:

O Pigs In onfinement suffer from
boredom, poor ventilation and inade-
quate lighting. '

0 Poultry are afﬂicted by summer
heat stress d overcrowding.

O Cattle beEg prepared for slaughter

on feeding 1 ts lack wind-breaks and
shade.

4

"b I

O Confined cattle and calves have
inadequate bedding.

Christine Stevens, president of the

'utgin Washing-
ton, told the meeting that in intensive
farm systems, laying hens are con-
fined to small, overcrowded battery
cages where they cannot spread their
wings.

Sometimes conditions are so crowd-
ed not all of them can stand on the
cage ﬂoor simultaneously, she said.
The slantedwire floors also cause foot
deformities. ‘

Mrs. Stevens criticized “the ridicu-
lous luxury trade” in white veal,
which she said restricts iron content
in the calves’ feed “to the very edge of
causing clinical anemia.

“If the meat is merely pink, as
normal, healthy veal should be, the
farmer is likely to be docked as much
as 10 cents a pound by the slaughter-
house, ” she added.

Discussing animal transportation,
Mrs. Stevens said the 1873 act passed
by Congress, and still basically in
force, only protects animals travelling
by rail, and does not take into account
the increased use of trucks in which
animals are often badly handled.

But Dr. Leroy Hahn of the Roman
Hruska U.S. Meat Animal Research
Centre at Clay Centre in Nebraska,
said there is a generally high level of
animal care and husbandry onlmost

farms today.

He said productivity has increased
through improved environments for
livestock in areas with severe cli-
mates.

Although Dr. Hahn conceded that
the average space per animal housed
has decreased, he said that, like
humans, animals have adapted to
today’s environment.

“To return animals adapted to a
housed environment to a foraging
environment would result in untold
losses of animals and performance,”
he told the meeting.

He pointed out that housed animals
are unlikely to be killed by predators,
or to starve in winter and gorge in
spring, and are less susceptible to
parasites and disease.

Noting the greatly increased pro-
ductivity from large-scale and often
mechanized farm operations, he said
output per hour of labor for all poultry
and egg output in the United States
has increased nearly 700 per cent in 25
years. ,

But he cautioned the agriculture
industry not to ignore animal welfare.

That, he said, would result in legis-
lation and regulation by politicians
responding to emotional pressure
from the non-farm public, “whose
perception of animals is often unreal-
istic and oriented towards Walt Dis-
ney characters and family pets.” ‘

t

  

N




 

'9" ‘I

I v,"

' Where Chimpanzees Use Sign Language

 

To the Editor.
The day your skeptical editorial

“Speaking With Other Species” ap-

peared (July l4),'l was at Eastern.

Washington University in Cheney,

Wash, visiting the senior signing ‘

chimpanzee, Washoe, who heads a
small group consisting of Moja, Tatu,

: ‘ Dar and Loulis, all of whom use Amer-

ican sign language to communicate.
This is documented by videotapes
taken in the absence of anyhuman ob-
servers. Loulis, moreover, learned
sign language from Washoe and the
others, never having been instructed
by any human being. There can be no
question of a case like that of Clever
Hans, the horse who early in the cen-

tury was respOnding to his trainer

and not comting (unless those who -

constantly seek to deny the intelli-
gence of chimpanzees. imagine that
one of the five in the group is master-

minding responses by the other four). -.

“Kanzi,” the star pygmy chimpan-
zeeat the Language Research Center

near Atlanta, “seems to understand

human commands,” you say. “He
fetches diapers, hoses, spoons; all you
havetndoisask. ”Well, the five chim-
panmes with whom I spent a long

lunch hour Sunday also understand-

; ' English, but no “comman are
given in the study directed by Dr.
Roger Fonts. When he asked to have a

spoon returned to him, Loulis wouldn’t’

5!.

—--.——

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'_l

:5
.r "
+ . V .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

do it, but Dar would. These chimpan-

zees have learned in an unstintingly
friendly atmosphere, and they enjoy
communicating with one another and
with scientists and students.

It is unfortunate that the excellent
scientiﬁc work that has been done re- t
mains constantly under attack. Wa-
shoe, Moja, Dar, Tatu and Loulis are
living proof that chimpanzees can and
do communicate by American sign
language. CHRISTINE STEVENS .

' President, Animal Welfare Institute

Washington, July 18. 1985

 

 

 




FW‘ML, ~- gu Thu-ft. v (if;
ﬂM 4” Le,\“'

PMztaj‘ ~ 1%;sz- Duh
W {i}: Bé t/‘Jfa ?)

 




An overvlew of the Winter
Meeting Rap Session. A
condensation of the
presentation by G. L. Hahn
begins on page 26 . . .

Marianna Pratt
Managing Editor

CAN a human, no matter how
sincere, accurately assess livestock
stress and/ or welfare by empathy, by
transference of human emotions and
human life values?

The Dec. 16 Winter Meeting Rap

Session on “Animal Care/Welfare”
sought to explore that question. Rap
session participants included:

I Christine Stevens, president of
the Animal Welfare Institute and
secretary, Society for Animal Protec-
tive Legislation

I H. C. Rowsell, executive director
of the Canadian Council on Animal
Care, a committee of the Assn. of
Universities and Colleges of Canada,
and also chairman of the Animal
Care Committee, School of
Medicine, University of Ottawa

I G. L. Hahn. agricultural
engineer with the USDA-ARS
Roman Hruska US Meat Animal
Research Center. Hahn is active on
the Animal Care Committee at the
Center and was a member of the
CAST Task Force on Animal
Welfare.

Both Stevens and Hahn also pro-
vided written papers; Hahn’s paper
was co-authored by H. F. Mayes of
USDA-SE-ARS and J. A. DeShazer
of the University of Nebraska. Mayes
also presided at the session.

Agricultural engineers, livestock
producers, meat packers and others
involved in providing animal protein
for human consumption have for
several years acknowledged the ex-
istence. of various highly motivated

Animal

Care/ Welfare

groups in Europe and America who
are critical of existing systems for
domestic animal care. To better
understand such groups and their
contentions, ASAE’s Structures &
Environment Division and the ASAE
Committee on Social Action had
sponsored this. rap session.

Leadoff speaker Stevens’ presen-
tation was titled “The Current
Animal Welfare Issue in the United
States”. Her concerns include en-
dangered species, particularly the
bobcat;

humane handling for:

ject to similar abuse and that all
humans who determine living condi-
tions for penned or caged animals
are hardened to animal suffering.
While Stevens stressed that the
groups she represents share with the
agricultural engineer the common
goal of increasing animal productivi-
ty, she did not exhibit familiarity
with livestock housing/handling
systems. She did not indicate that
she had visited livestock farms or
ranches. Nor was she apparently
aware of the many studies over the

ANlVAL CARE/WELFARE moderator Herman F. Mayes, left, chats with G. Leroy
Hahn, Christine Stevens, and H. C. Rowsell following the Dec. 16 rap session.

predatory aniinﬂs; the handling of
veal calves; the large housing
systems for domestic animals; the
welfare of animals in transport; and
the housing and care of laboratory
animals.

Stevens had brought a photo
display showing the cage conditions
of 17 laboratory monkeys whose
owner has been cited for violating
the Federal Animal Welfare Act.
While the disposition of that suit was
not revealed, the inference was that
all animals in conﬁnement are sub-

years which have sought to relate
animal health and productivity to
systems of feeding, housing, and
handling. Yet she appeared convinc-
ed that animal productivity is always
less in conﬁnement, no matter how
difficult the conditions of the
“natural” environment in terms of
air temperature and quality, fly and
other pest infestations, sanitary con-
ditions, availability of feed and clean
water.
Stevens
siderable enthusiasm a

described with con-

66 ”

new

agricultural engineering I February I 1982

 

 

 




British system where calves are bed-
ded down on straw and suck formula
from “artiﬁcial nipples”—apparent-
1y unaware that similar livestock
handling systems were common in
the US 50 years ago. She also ap-
peared convinced that animals bed-
ded on straw, if given a choice, will
never soil that straw.

Stevens announced that the Ani-
mal Welfare Institute is funding
research into the straw yard system
and the use of those “artiﬁcial nip-
~ples”. She urged ag engineers to
undertake similar research. Inciden-
tally, Stevens always referred to the
cow’s milk organs as nipples, ap-
parently unaware of the more cus-
tomary terms of udders and teats.

A concern shared by ag engineers
is the welfare of animals in trans-
port. While abuse no doubt exists
here, Stevens exhibited little
knowledge of areas of responsibility.
She stated that “At meetings of the
Animal Air Transport Assn., reports
have been made that severe prob-
lems on handling livestock flown
from the US to foreign countries are
often encountered at the receiving
end. In hot countries, of course, it is
essential that the. airplane, once on
the ground, be kept cool until the
animals can be unloaded. Often the
receivers fail to meet the plane or,
when they do, are provided with
trucks and ramps which cannot
properly handle the animals. Some
of these matters are engineering
problems or could be partially
alleviated by good engineering”.

Stevens gave no evidence of having
investigated the availability or utility
of existing systems for transporting
and loading/unloading animals nor
of the engineer’s inability to
guarantee, for example, the method
in which the plane will be unloaded
in a foreign country. '

Stevens summed up her position
thus: “We believe that improved
methods of housing livestock and

Volume 63 I Number 2

poultry which take into account the
feelings and desires of the animals
involved will also prove to be advan-
tageous to producers. It may take
some experimentation and a will-
ingness to be open-minded, but that
is the American way. We hope that it
will not be necessary to legislate good
housing and care for farm animals.
However, if changes are not made,

, we are quite prepared in the Society

for Animal Protective Legislation to
seek mandatory change.”

 

The papers by Christine
Stevens (No. 81-4578) and by
G. L. Hahn, et al (No. 81-4580) are
available from ASAE Head-
quarters; check the handy yellow
order form elsewhere in this
issue for price. The paper by
Hahn includes a reference list of
recent articles and publications
reflecting animal welfare con-
cerns plus a listing of the names
and addresses of national and in-
ternational groups supporting the
animal welfare movement.

 

 

 

The next speaker was H. C.
Rowsell; his talk was titled “The Im-
pact and Current Status of Animal
Welfare Regulations in the UK and
Canada”.

Rowsell also expressed concern for
the treatment of veal calves, for the
use of steel leg traps in snaring
animal predators, and for the “in-
humanity” of “animal factories”.
But his main concern involves
laboratory animals. He predicts that
Canada soon will develop a code to
cover the use of animals in research,
teaching and testing. The Canadian
Federation of Humane Societies
seeks, in Rowsell’s words, to “idiot-
proof’ ’ the care of animals—to act as
the conscience for humans. Its
Bioethics Committee will advise on
“how animals think” and determine
what care and handling routines are
acceptable under that criteria.

Acknowledging his “conversion”
to the animal welfare issue, Rowsell
expressed the hope that he could
make “converts” from within the
scientiﬁc community. That use of
traditional religious terminology
provided the main distinction be-
tween the messages delivered by
Stevens and Rowsell. Stevens at-
tempted to offer an intellectual ap-
peal; her vulnerability was her lack
of knowledge of both traditional and
contemporary farming patterns and
of animal behavior in and out of con-
ﬁnement. Rowsell’s approach at
times achieved the religious fervor
practiced by certain cultists who
regard all life forms as equally
sacred. While acknowledging that
animal research has helped relieve
human suffering, Rowsell asked with
passion, “Even then, does the end
justify the means?”

Following the presentation by
G. L. Hahn, whose presentation is
summarized here, questions were ac-
cepted from the audience. Those
questions generally reﬂected at-
tempts on the part of the questioners
to determine from the first two
panelists the parameters of their
knowledge of livestock systems.

A primary theme throughout
those “observation” questions was
the economics of good livestock
care—the economic reality that few
livestock raisers, no matter how
small or large their operation, could
long remain competitive if they
allowed gross abuse of animals. As
one member of the audience pointed
out, “The ﬁrst person to put a fly net
on his horse was worried about the
welfare of that horse.” '

But there appeared to be little
likelihood that Stevens or Rowsell
could be convinced that animal
health/welfare already is and long
has been a prime consideration for
those who raise animals for proﬁt
and for those who design those
animal housing/handling systems. I

25

 




