The Cost of a Skin

By ]. HOVJARD MOORE

From a leaﬂet issued by the Millennium Guild, of New York City] This
article by the late J. Howard Moore, author of The New Ethics, The Universal
Kinship and Better World Philosophy, was ﬁrst published by the Guild in 1912.

 

Furs are luxuries, and it cannot be said in apology for the wrongs
done in obtaining them that they are essential to human life. They are
no more essential to human welfare than toothpicks or diamonds. Doing
without them may cause inconvenience sometimes, but it cannot cause any!
thing worse; and inconvenience, especially if it is largely imaginary, is a
form of distress not extreme enough to cause any civilised being to commit
crimes in order to avoid it. There are a great many inconveniences in
this inconvenient world. It is inconvenient to do without our neighbours
purse sometimes, and our neighbours wife and wits, much more income
venient than being deprived of the death/harvest of the birds and quadru’
peds. It is also inconvenient, very inconvenient—to see the golden apples of
pleasure and opportunity shining in profusion all about us, even rotting
in the very hands of multitudes who know not what they are, and feel
our own souls famishing—always famishing—for even the parings of life’s
fruitions. '

But most of us are able to stand these greater inconveniences, either
because we are educated to do so or because we don’t like to get mixed up
with the club of public opinion and law. The time will come in the evo’
lution of human sympathy and understanding when the same kindly club
will hang over the birds and quadrupeds that hangs over our neighbour now.
Then we shall refrain from burglarising them, no doubt, with the same
prescribed cheerfulness as that with which we keep our hands off our neigh/
bour now. In the present raw state of human nature the only limit most

men place to their wrong doings is that indicated by where punishment

begins.

Skins and deceased birds are not half so beautiful, anyway, as ﬂowers,
or ribbons or velvets, or mohair. They are popular because they are bare
baric. They appeal to the vulgarian. They have no attractions whatever
for men and women of culture and education. Our ideas of art, like our
. impulses, and like human psychology generally, are. still largely in the savage

 




 

stage of evolution. No one but a vulgarian would attempt to adorn herself
by putting the dead bodies of birds on her head, or muffling her shoulders
in grinning weasels and dangling minktails. Indeed to one who sees
things as they are, in the full light of adult understanding, a woman
rigged out in such cemeterial appurtenances is repulsive. She 1s a concourse
of unnecessary funerals. She is about as fascinating, about as choice and
ingenious in her decorations, as she would be embellished in a necklace of
human scalps. She excites pity. She is a pathetic example of being
trying to add to her charms by high crimes and misdemeanours, and suc’

ceeding only in advertising her inhumanity.

It is estimated that 30 ,OO0,000 living beings are annually put to death
in this world for furs alone. If all of these millions could be gathered
together in one place, they would make, with their broken and outraged
bodies, their sunken eyes and frozen faces, a mountain of death that would
terrify even the mindless savages in whose interests and at whose behest

this frightful destruction is wrought.

But the full meaning of this appalling massacre is not conveyed by
off/hand totals from the catalogue of death, but by a contemplation of the
enormous sufferings inseparably connected with it. Of all the accessories
gathered from every quarter of the globe to garnish human vanity, furs
are the most expensive, for in no way does man show such complete
indifference to the feelings of his victims as he does in the fur trade. Furl
bearing animals, many of them, are intelligent enough to require the exercise
by man of his highest cunning and perﬁdy to effect their capture. Yet, in
addition to death, they are compelled to undergo sufferings so inhuman as
to be utterly unjustiﬁed, even though the proceeds of these sacriﬁces
were masses of living gold instead of skin. I read the other day of an
otter that was pursued by a band of men and boys for four hours, when
she gave birth to two little ones, and the account stated that she was
pursued for two hours after that before she was ﬁnally killed.

Most of the skins used for furs are obtained by catching their owners
in traps, and death in such cases comes usually at the close of hours or
even of days of the most intense suffering and terror. The principal device
used by professional trappers is the steel trap, the most ﬁendish instrument
of arrest that was ever invented by the human mind. It is not an uncom/
mon thing for the savage jaws of this monstrous instrument to bite off the
leg 'of their would/be captive at asingle stroke. If the leg is not completely
amputated by the snap of the terrible steel, it is likely to be so deeply cut
as to encourage the animal to gnaw or twist it off. This latter is the

2




 

 

common mode‘of escapebf many animals; Trappers say that on an aver
age one animal out of every ﬁve caught has only three legs} A trapper
told me recently that he once caught a mus.krrat‘that had only one leg.- The
poor remnant was caught by the tail.

Suppose we human beings were hunted with traps by a race of giants
100 feet high, very ingenious, and absolutely without conscience so far as
their treatment of us was concerned. Suppose that, in spite of all our
vigilance, we were continually falling into these traps, which were hidden
all about us, and compelled in order to escape to eat. off our own arms and
legs. Suppose that even then one out of every ﬁve of us was so halfrstarved
as to be caught a second time, and ended up after hours or days of unspeakz
able agony, by having his head smashed into a jelly by a big club. Suppose
we were absolutely helpless in the matter, and that our victimisers had no
higher purpose in inﬂicting these ﬁendish outrages than to get a scalp or
a jawbone to dangle about their demoniacal necks. Suppose, ﬁnally, in
order to complete the analogy, that these people imagined themselves to
be highly civilised and enlightened. What sort of an opinion do you
think we would have in the course of ages as to the real character of these
people and of their ﬁtness to be the models and superintendents of a planet?

In order to guard against the escape of the captive by the amputation
of its own limb, trappers are advised by their guide/books to use traps with
small “ pans ” so that the limb of the captive, coming directly in the centre
of the trap, will be clutched close up to the body. No amount of self/mastir
cation then can free the unfortunate; it is doomed. It may gnaw its
fettered foot, and, in the frenzy of its agony, break its teeth on the
unyielding steel, but it can never get away.

,

The “ spring pole ’ isanother device used by trappers to prevent the
escape of their prey by self/mutilation, and. at the same time ensure it
from destruction by other passing animals. This consists of a ﬂexible pole
set in the ground near the trap. The upper end of the pole is bent down
and fastened in such a way as to be liberated by any slight wrench. The
chain of the trap is fastened to the pole; and when the creature is caught,
its struggles to escape, which we are told “ are often so violent as to break

,

a stout trap or chain,” release the pole, and the trap and prisoner are

jerked into the air and held there. Here the unhappy captive must hang
until'it starves to death, or freezes, or perishes from thirst or pain, or until

8 ‘I

the particular ‘ paragon ’ who carries on this accursed business comes
along and confers on itthe favour of knocking out its brains. The poor

creature may have to hang in this distressing condition for a day or two, or

3

 




 

even a week, suffering agonies no pen can ‘ describe, including the ' pains ~
of inﬂammation rendered many times more excruciating by the thousand
fruitless struggles of the distracted sufferer to escape.

The “ sliding/pole ” is an arrangement for causing captives to drown
themselves, and the “ dead fall ” is a baited log so adjusted as to fall and

crush the life out of any being unwary enough to approach for the
proffered food. I

Cruelty of Catching Ermine

But of all the cruel methods used by the trappers in getting possession
of their prey, the one sometimes employed in catching ermine is perhaps
the climax of them all. The method is used in order to avoid injury to
the skin which is caused by catching the animal in a trap. The method con!
sists in taking pieces of iron too large for the ermine to drag away with it,
and coating them with grease, and then putting these objects where the
ermine will ﬁnd them. The ermine licks at the grease, and the intense cold
of the iron causes the tongue to freeze fast instantly as if it had been put
into a vice. There is no possibility of escape, except by pulling the tongue
out by the roots. The inevitable struggles to escape cause a larger and
larger area to become adherent to the pitiless iron, and in time the whole
mouth region may become solidiﬁed from the prolonged exposures in the
bitter Arctic cold.

No pen can ever portray and no mind can ever realise what these
poor unconsidered victims of human vanity endure during their long hours
and days Of awful cruciﬁxion up there among the silences of the great

white North.

Fabrics of Bloodless Origin

Human industry is changing and elastic, and nothing illustrates this
fact better than the evolution of human raiment. Man originally in the
temperate parts of the earth wrapped himself entirely in the skins of his
victims—not only clothed himself in animal products, but made his weapons
and dwellings largely of materials from the same source. But with the
advance of art and civilisation the less economical animal products have
been steadily superseded by products of the vegetal world. The hands and
feet are now about the only parts left among the more advanced races
that are regularly wrapped in skins. Cotton is today by far the most
important textile used by mankind, and wool is next. And we may expect
that this sartorial reform, already so far advanced, will go on, and that

4

 




 

the :more enlightened generations ,of‘qtheigfuturej’ forbothT-‘mo'ral‘ andﬁecona
omic reasons, will clothe themselves entirely -in fabrics of bloodless Origin.

Furs just as warm and beautiful as murderous sealskin may be made
of plush; and vegetal silk as ﬁne and lustrous as ever was spun by the oak
eating babes of Polyphemus can be made of wood. Vegetal leather has
been manufactured in London with the polish and durability of calfskin.
And when the demand becomes strong enough to turn human attention
proﬁtably to the task foot/wear just as comely and lasting, and more sani/
tary and comfortable, 'will be made at even less cost from plant products.

Leather is a byproduct. It is an incidental arising from the prosecution
of our meat/getting depredations. And it must be used. Business, that
god of modern madmen, demands it.

Man is a savage. He has always carried on his activities on the as/
sumption that there was nobody else in the world to be considered. He
has hitherto regarded it necessary to slaughter fresh victims every time he
wanted new supplies of raw material for his industries. But there is no
reason why, with no more resources than he now has, but with more
feeling, he should not do otherwise if he wants to. All he needs to do is to
exercise his head and heart a little more, and his butcher/knife less. If,
instead of going out with trap and gun every time he wants a trinket or a
meal, man would make up his mind to avoid these methods, and would use
his incomparable powers of invention to provide substitutes, there would
be no necessity for him to be what he is now.

Furs are luxuries. They are neither necessary nor artistic. They
come to us red with blood and black with incalculable atrocity. And
the astonishing thing about this whole business is that there are still,
after so many centuries of evolution, human beings who can appear in the
streets in broad daylight decked out in these monstrous proceeds and look
civilised men and women in the face.

J '» J 7,
w w

(Certain persons have chosen to question the statements as to ermine
trapping made above by J. Howard Moore, Professor of Zoology, as trapper”s
guides for America do not always name this method. It is well to remember
that all of the “ ﬁnest ” ermine comes from Russia and Siberia. Those
really interested in facts are referred to the largest and latest trapper”s
guide by Hardison Patton, who in his book, Raising Fur Bearing Animals,“

 

*This book can be seen at Animal Defence House, 15', St. James’s Place,
London, S.W.1.

 




 

published in America and England, deploring the waste invOlved by such
methods, says of the trapping of ermine (page 27): “ Ermines are caught
in extremely cold. climates by greasing a piece of steel which they lick; the
intense cold freezes the tongue to the metal, where they must remain to
die in agony, unless they are successful in tearing the tongue from the
mouth, which they often do, only to die elsewhere of starvation and be lost,
toino purpose”) Statement by the Millennium Guild.

Reprinted from PROGRESS TODAY: The Humanitarian and'Antinivisection Review.

 

Issued by:
The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society,

15, ST. JAMES’S PLACE, ST, JAMES’S' STREET, LONDON, S.W.1,
. and at 4 and 6, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva, Switzerland.

President: Founder and Hon. Director:
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON. MIss LIND’AF'HAGEBY.
Secretary: MIss L. K. SCHARTAU.

(3

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Why You should become a Member of

THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

15, ST. JAMES’S PLACE, ST. JAMES’S STREET, LONDON, S.W.1.
And at 4 and 6, COUR ST. PIERRE, GENEVA, SWITZERLAND.

President: THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON.
Hon. Director and Founder: MISS LIND’AFI'HAGEBY.

The Society has been in existence 33 years and has worked strenuously to
suppress cruelty in every form, and to create a spirit of mercy and justice in the
treatment of animals. The SOciety carries on a Vigorous campaign to reform the
methods of slaughter and transport, to end the horrors of the steel’trap and the fur
trafﬁc, to expose the cruelties of the bullrﬁght, the rodeo, spectacles and sports which
are based on the suffering of animals, to abolish vivisection and generally to awaken
feeling and understanding in regard to the treatment of animals.

The inﬂuence of the Society is worldwide. Many hundred societies in a
number of countries are associated with the work of the Animal Defence Society.
It stands for the principle that the cause of humanity to animals is not a side/issue,
but a vital part of civilisation and social development. The Society therefore seeks
to introduce humane education in every school. The Society’s active campaigns for
reform are carried out by means of meetings, lectures, extensive distribution of
publications, press publicity, international congresses, exhibitions, demonstrations,
etc.

The Society has: Organised a Depu'tation, supported by over 1,400 Animal
Protection Societies, to the President of the Conference for the Reduction and
Limitation of Armaments in Geneva, emphasising the importance of humane educa’
tion and animal protection as civilising inﬂuences in the furtherance of international
peace, April, 1932. Built a Model Humane Abattoir at Letchworth. Organised
demonstrations of Huma’ne Slaughter in London, Letchworth, Paris, Geneva, and
other towns. IvIaintains permanent Humane Exhibitions in London and ‘Geneva.
Was awarded the GRAND PRIX for Pavilion Zoophilia at the Great International
Exhibition in Paris, 1937. Organised the Sections relating to the protection of
animals in the Lord Mayor’s Processions through London in 1929 and 1930. Main/
tains two motor caravans for purposes of education and agitation. Organised during
the European War, veterinary hospitals for sick and wounded horses of the French
Army under the authority of the French War Ofﬁce. Has organised great Inter!
national Congresses and initiated' vigorous Parliamentary Campaigns. The Society’s
publications cover a wide range of subjects, present facts and opinions of value to
every humanitarian who seeks enlightenment.

Member’s Annual Subscription, 105.; Life Membership, £5; Associates,

25. 6d. Cheques and Postal Orders should be made payable to The

Animal Defence and Anti/Vivisection Society, 1’5, St. James’s Place,

London, S.W.1. Bankers: The Midland Bank Limited, 36, Old Bond
Street, W.1. Telephone: Regent 0845.

Hon. Treasurer: MISS B. C. DELIUS. Secretary: MISS L. K. SCHARTAU.
Secretary, International Humanitarian Bureau, Geneva: MRS. M. E. MORDAN.

 

 

 




 

S'I‘. CLEMENTS PRESS LTD.,
Portugal St, Kingsway, W.C.2.

 




