A Statement for the Public Hearing of the Subcommittee to consider
8.1636 of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on May 9
and 10, 1956, to recommend amendment and enactment of 3.1636.

Everyone agrees that humane methods of slaughter should be
adOpted by the meat packing industry. In fact, so strong is the
public revulsion against the cruelty being practiced day in and '
day out in most of our packing plants that even those who have been
responsible for this endless chain of unnecessary terror and pain
inflicted on hundreds of millions of defenseless animals dare not
oppose the idea of humane slaughter. They do not hesitate to oppose,
however, the enactment of legislation whiCh would make it compulsory.

They seek to justify this opposition by saying that humane
slaughter will be voluntarily adopted and that legislation is un-
necessary. It is not surprising that the American Meat Institute,
which represents the largest and most powerful packers, should have
adopted such a propaganda line. This same line worked so well
twenty-seven years ago that routine cruelty in the nation's
slaughterhouses has gone on virtually undisturbed ever since.

It is time that an end should be put to this debasing brutality
which is unworthy of our country. No decent American, be he Repub»
lican or Democrat, can be in favor of continuing to inflict un—
necessary fear and pain on the animals that provide us with food,
leather, medicines, and hundreds of other necessities and luxuries.
To give protection to these animals, legislation is absolutely
necessary.

A look at the record will show why this is so. In 187#,
Switzerland required that all animals be rendered unconscious
before shackling and bleeding. The next country to follow suit was
the Netherlands in 1920. Norway enacted humane slaughter legis~
lation in 1924, and Scotland, in 1928. In 1929 the American Meat
Institute formed its ”Committee for Improved Slaughtering Methods.”
Such confidence was inspired by the apparent interest of the packers
in humane slaughter that the President of the Massachusetts SPCA
gave a speech at the 1929 convention of the American Humane
Association in which he stated, "The packers are with us,” and the
efforts he and others had made to have compulsory humane slaughter
legislation enacted came to nothing. Until 1955 when Senator
THumphrey introduced 5.1636, no one challenged the right of packers
in our country to drag screaming hogs over a great wheel chained
by a hind leg which sometimes broke, to thrust a knife into their
throats in full consciousness, to kill the pathetically docile lambs
and calves and sheep in the same horrible manner, to hammer cattle
into unconsciousness with ten or more blows if necessary, and to
subject the men working on the killing floors nbt only to the danger
of knife wounds, kicks and bites, the hideous noise and spatter of
blood, but to the even more hideous moral debasement of having to
earn a living by cruelty.

In European democracies, the packers fought hard each time a
law was preposed to bring an end to these practices, but they were
less successful than the American Meat Institute. In 1932, Northern

 




-2-

Ireland enacted compulsory humane slaughter legislation, and in
1933, England followed suit. Next came Finland in 1934, Sweden
in 1937, Fiji in 1948, New Zealand in 1951, and Denmark in 1954.
Parts of France, Germany, Austria and Australia also enacted
humane slaughter laws. .

_ What was happening in the United States during these years?-
Did the American Meat Institute's Committee on Improved Methods of
Slaughter develop any improved methods of slaughter or encourage
their adoption by the industry as they keep promising they are
going to do? The answer, of course, is no. In all those 27 years
the AmeriCan Meat Institute undertook only one formal piece of
scientific research on the stunning of animals, This research was
extensive and undoubtedly expensive, but so far from developing a
humane method, its result was to cancel one out. After convincing
the Department of Agriculture that electrical stunning could not
be used, the American Meat Institute folded its hands and sat
back, fully satisfied, apparently, with its accomplishment. Humane
slaughter had been thoroughly defeated.

Not until the threat of legislation frightened it into its
recent show of activity did the American Meat Institute give the
smallest encouragement to any humane method of slaughter. Its
indifference and hostility to the marvellous humane invention made
by one of its own members, the Hormel Company, ha s been so revealing
as to be worth noting in detail.

The highly ingenious new method of anesthetizing hogs with
carbon dioxide was invented at the Company's plant at Austin,
Minnesota. In 1952, Mr. L. W. Murphy gave a speech about the new
development illustrated with films, before the convention of the
American Meat Institute. "The National Provisioner" and "Food
Engineering" carried long articles which gave a clear picture of
the great gains, not only in humaneness, but in efficiency, economy
and labor relations obtained through use of the process. Animal
protective publications featured articles praising the new method.
Letters went out to various companies asking when they planned to
install the carbon dioxide tunnel Humanitarians, always hopeful,
felt again "the packers are with us,’ and, again, they were bitterly
disappointed. The Hormel Company installed a second tunnel in
Austin, a third in its Fremont, Nebraska, plant, but not one single
other American_packer has installed the humane equipment.

The big packers and the American Meat Institute never lose an
opportunity to criticize this outstanding American invention which
is being warmly received in European countries where humane slaughter
legislation is in effect. A few examples of the hostility of the
A.M.I., Armour's and Swift's will suffice. A letter from Mr. Norman
Draper, Public Relations Director of the A. M. I. , published in the
Louisville Courier Journal, March 10, 1956, makes the false state—
ment: "This is a patented process and not available to everyone. '
The process is, of course, patented, the patent rights having been
given by the Hormel Company to the Allbright- -Nell Company, suppliers
to the packing industry of a variety of equipment It can be
purchased from them by anyone who wishes to install it.

 




-3-

Mr. Draper's letter in the Courier Journal goes on to cast
doubt on the humaneness of carbon dioxide, and, judging from the
letters which have been sent on to me by housewives who wrote the
A.M.I. to ask why they didn't do something to stOp the current
cruelty in slaughterhouses, Mr. Draper gave them all the same mis—
information.

Mr. Regensburger and Mr. Eschenbach, vice-presidents of Swift
and Company, were equally anxious to convince me that carbon dioxide
is not humane when I visited one of their inhumanely Operated
Chicago plants. Armour and Company’s official statement, dated
September 1, 1955, says, "It (anesthetizing hogs with carbon
dioxide gas) has not been proved to be more humane than present
methods. Mr. Aled P. Davies of the A.M.I. in his address before
the Mid-West Conference of Humane Societies, May 13, 1955, uses
almost the same words: "It has yet to be proved that this method
is more humane.”

The doubt-casting technique is an effective public~relations
tool, and a surprising number of people have allowed themselves to
be persuaded that carbon dioxide suffocates rather than anesthe-
tizes animals. ‘This is false. Hogs entering a 65% to 70% concen—
tration of carbon dioxide lose consciousness in 5 to 10 seconds.
But it is impossible to lose consciousness from lack of oxygen
in so short a time. It is easy to hold one's breath for 60
seconds or more without impairing consciousness in the slightest.
Anyone who wants to find out from personal experience about the
rapidity of the effect of carbon dioxide on the central nervous
system has only to try a simple eXperiment I carried out on
myself. Next time you buy ice cream in a bag containing plenty
of dry ice, put your face in the bag and inhale the carbon
dioxide deeply. You can feel for yourself the giddiness which
is a prelude to unconsciousness.

Carbon dioxide is not used routinely as an anesthetic because
it raises the blood pressure, but for certain mental treatments
it is in regular use, and patients are repeatedly anesthetized
with it painlessly. There are a great many references in
scientific papers to the anesthetic properties of the gas (see
appendix to this statement) whose action in the cessation of
reflexes corresponds exactly with those seen in ether anesthesia.
Dr. Sven Mogens Blomquist, veterinarian at the Danish Meat Research
Institute where extensive studies on the subject have been carried
out, states: ”Our investigations have led to the conclusion that
the stunning in 65% carbon dioxide promptly gives deep narcosis
without sufferings." (see appendix for letter in full.)

With these facts in mind, what is to be said of people who
persist in suggesting that it is less humane to rapidly anesthetize
an animal before it has any premonition of death than it is to hang
the same animal by a chain around one hind leg and send him scream—
ing in terror and pain, to see and hear his fellows in their death
agonies, with their throats cut, bleeding to death, to suffer the
same agonies himself while fully conscious?

 




-4-

Their hostility towards this humane invention (which has been
further developed to save the Hormel Company $50,000 annually in
paid claims on bruises) is not the only demonstration of their bad
faith in respect to humane slaughter.

The Armour statement (Sept. 1, 1955) referred to before,
asserts that shackling a hog and hanging him head downwards "has a
quieting or anesthetizing effect." Those who have been present
when hogs are hung up like this have never found the atmosphere to
be noteworthy for quietness. The fact is that hanging head down—
wards while being bled slows down the final merciful arrival of
unconsciousness. Scientific reference to this physiological fact
may be found in a paper by E. O. Longley in the Journal of Mental
Science, 9; (398), 1949, in which he states: "The fact that the
animals are suspended head downward during this time must be
recognized as providing the maximum delay in loss of consciousness
by the bleeding."

Armour and Company is not alone in serving out monstrous
statements to the public. Swift and Company reached unusual
heights in this field when it published a little book for school
children entitled "The Meat Packing Industry in America" (1951)
which states: "Hogs, sheep and all but the larger calves are
slaughtered by having their throats cut. This operation quickly
paralyzes the sensory nervous system and prevents all pain.” If
it is so perfectly painless to die from having one's throat
cut, one wonders why suicides seem to prefer shooting themselves
or anesthetizing themselves with sleeping pills. But Armour's,
Swift's and the others in control of the American Meat Institute
are just as much against shooting animals before slaughter as they
are against anesthetizing them. 'Why? The brain of a steer
humanely stunned with a captive bolt pistol cannot be used for
human consumption unless carefully trimmed. But those of us who
go to a meat market or a restaurant and ask to buy a steer's
brain are very, very few and far between. Most beef brains are
used for such items as animal food or fertilizer, and they very
rarely bring more than 3¢ to 5¢.

Mr. E. Y. Lingle, President of the Seitz Packing Company,
St. Joseph, Missouri, states that he is saving much more than the
value of the brains by reducing bruises and ”dark cutters" or
"stiff cattle" through use of the pistol. ”We have slaughtered
.over 5,000 cattle with the lights and with the pistol and we
have had only an occasional 'stiff' cattle. When we used the
hammer we had stiff cattle every day. These stiff cattle are
the ones that do not bleed properly and are very difficult for
the butcher to skin because the hide is tight." Mr. Lingle's
whole speech is worth reading and is attached in the appendix. It
also contains refutation of the Armour allegation that "the captive
bolt pistol has not proved practical on high Speed operations.’
Mr. Lingle states: 'We have made time studies of the slaughtering
of several hundred cattle and find that we can load the gun and
shoot one cattle every seven seconds. 0n the basis of one cattle
every ten seconds, one man can slaughter 360 cattle per hour, and
he can continue to do this all day long because his work is much
easier than when he used the hammer." '

 




-5...

The captive bolt pistol is in every day use by a considerable
number of companies including the Oscar Mayer Company, Madison,
Wisconsin; Great Falls Meat 00., Great Falls, Montana; Cudahy
Brothers 00., Cudahy, Wisconsin; Peters Packing Co., McKeesport,
Pennsylvania; L. A. Frey & Sons, New Orleans, Louisiana; Elsheimers
Meat Products, West Union, Iowa; C. E. Richards and Sons, Muscatine,
Iowa; American Stores 00., Pueblo, Colorado; Fresno Meat Packing
00., Fresno, California; Chicago Dressed Beef, Worcester, Massa-
chusetts; Salter Packing Co., Vernon, California; Triangle Meat
Company, Chicago, Illinois.

A third method of stunning animals before slaughter has been
deveIOped by the Remington Arms Company. In the unseemly scramble
to take false credit for the development of this instrument, the
American Meat Institute has been in the forefront, but the simple
fact is that the instrument was developed by the Remington Company
itself for sale to any and all packers who decide to use it. The
threat of legislation has led the A.M.I. to sponsor tests in a
number of its members' plants and to send out news releases de—
signed to reflect credit upon themselves and to delay final assess—
ment of the tool in the hOpe that enactment of S. 1636 can be
postponed and, through postponement, defeated.

This instrument represents so vast an improvement over the
old—fashioned hammer that it would be inconceivable that Remington
salesmen, aggressively pushing sales of instruments and ammunition,
should fail to distribute a considerable quantity. I may be wrong,
but I believe that a substantial reduction in cruelty to steers in
slaughterhouses will take place next year even if 3.1636 should be
defeated. This expectation must not blind us to the fact that
cruelty to the gentlest and most uncomplaining victims of slaughter—
house brutality, the lambs, the calves, and the sheep, will not be
abated so much as one hundredth of one percent unless and until
this bill is passed, for the greatest salesman in the world will
be unable to sell stunning equipment for these pathetic creatures
@dﬂch.do indeed go "like a lamb to the slaughter")until cruel
methods of slaughter have been made illegal.

The American packing industry has available three splendid,
practical, humane devices, two of them developed on American soil
specifically to meet American needs, and the third already in use
in quite a number of plants in this country. The American Meat
Institute Committee on Improved Methods of Slaughter has, by its
lethargy and callousness, lost many millions of dollars for the
packing industry and, indirectly, for the meat—consuming public.
In calling attention to its excellent article (which I hope every
member of the Committee will read) "Look, No Shackles, No Bruised
Hams” in its April 14th issue, The National Provisioner hits the
-nail on the head when it editorializes, "We wonder whether packers
haven't overemphasized the 'slow' in their ’sure' march toward
progress.” One might go a step farther and ask if the slowness
hasn't eliminated the sureness in some plants. When I visited
Swift's Chicago plant, an architect who had made a similar tour
forty years ago accompanied me.‘ He states that he observed no
humane progress of any kind in that period of time.

 




-5-

I have been unable to discover any sign whatsoever that the
majority of meat packers will even consider adopting humane
methods of slaughter for all the animals they kill until compulsory
legislation is passed. There is plenty of evidence to the con-
trary however. In Denmark,humane slaught r regulations were
adopted in 195# and temporarily suspende in 1955 owing to problems
arising from the use of electrical stunning, a method not being
considered for the United States. The manufacturer of the Danish
carbon dioxide tunnel has been given numerous orders for his
equipment, but they are to be filled if, and only if, the regula—
tions go back into effect! By the same token, the manager of a
medium sized American plant expressed interest in installing such
a tunnel because he says he thinks the legislation will be passed
and he doesn‘t want to be the last to comply if it is. In no
country has humane slaughter been adopted for the majority of
animals until compulsory legislation was enacted.

The instruments and photographs of humane slaughtering
devices on display at this Hearing show their practical and
humane excellence. All packers could adOpt humane methods in
the next two years without undue haste or difficulty, and I wish
to suggest that S. 1636 be amended to reduce the time for com—
pliance to two years with one additional year available in unusual
cases by special permission of the Secretary of Agriculture. I
further suggest that S. 1636 be amended to be identical with
H.R. 8540 and H.R. 9603 except for Section 4 (b) providing for an
advisory committee. I urge that no such committee be established
under this act and that the Secretary of Agriculture be responsible
for ensuring its effective administration. Only a disinterested
government department can act honestly and fairly in the adminis—
tration of legislation of this kind. The organizational repre-
sentatives would be subject to intolerable pressures which would
serve to weaken the enforcement of the legislation. Their eXpense
money would be better saved for a more useful purpose.

In conclusion, permit me to say that I have visited slaughter-
houses in the United States, England, Holland and Denmark. I have
seen cruel slaughter and humane slaughter, large scale slaughter
and small scale slaughter, and I know that there is no longer any
need for any animal to suffer fear and pain such as American
animals by the millions are being forced to endure simply because
most packers won’t trouble themse1ves to be humane.

If S. 1636 is amended and enacted into law, all this stagger—
ingly vast amount of intense and unnecessary suffering will come
to an end in two years. This Congress has the opportunity to do
great good for the animals without which we could not live and
which, in turn, depend upon us for decent treatment and protection
against cruelty, great good for the man on the killing floor, and
great good for our nation's moral and spiritual character. And,
even though many of them don't seem to realize it, this law would
do great good for the packers, too, for the antiquated Operating
methods being widely used are as bad for business as they are for
the animals and the men.

*WOrd has just been receiged that Danish humane slaughter regulations went into force again
on May 1,1956

 




-7...

If S. 1636 is defeated, it will be a triumph for the worst
elements in organized meat packing, those who gladly spend large
sums to fool the American public, to make cruelty seem kind, to
make inefficiency and waste seem businesslike, but who begrudge a
penny or two to Save an animal from pain and terror. Please don't
let them win.

Respectfully submitted,

Christine Stevens,
270 Park Avenue,
New York 17, New York.

 




SUMR

PUBLISHED BY GOSHH‘I LABORATORIES. GOSHEN. N. Y.

1956

 

Antibiotics in Modern Day Stresses

By Dr. R. C. Klussendorf

Modern day stresses are the result of long
exposure to unusual or exhausting conditions.
The stress phenomenon occurs in three
phases (1): the alarm reaction, the stage of
resistance, and the stage of exhaustion. Dur-
ing stress, the demand for adrenocortical
hormones is greatly increased, and, as a re-
sult, the amino acids and several fractions
of the vitamin B complex are utilized and
destroyed at a rate much greater than nor-
mal. ‘At the same time, the ability of the
body to replenish the supply of these sub-
stances is reduced.

Many stress factors have been enumerated
and listed (2), but they fall into four gen-
eral classes: genetic, nutritional, manage-
mental and diseases or infections. A single
stress seldom causes trouble, and may not
even exist alone.

1. The genetic stress exists because birds
have been selected for many generations with
one object in mind—to get the most rapid
production, whether that be meat or eggs.
When ‘20 years ago we were content to let a
chick grow to 2 1b. in 110 weeks, today we ex-
pect double that weight in the same time.
Also, we were satisﬁed to have pigs weaned
at eight weeks weighing 20 lb. .and reaching
100 lb. at ﬁve months. Today we expect pigs
to weigh 40 lb. at eight weeks and 200 lb.
at ﬁve months.

2. The nutritional stress is produced by re-
quiring that the bird or animal consume a
great excess of nutrients beyond the normal
physiologic requirements of the body. To do
this, the body must function at a greatly
accelerated rate. This is true not only for the
digestive tract and its essential juices, but
also for the entire organ system including
the endocrine glands. Moreover, the mar-
ginal nutritional substances must be supplied
in greatly increased quantities, and these
must be assimilated and. metabolized in full
amount and in proper balance. Also, the ra-
tion itself has been completely changed from
one consisting of seeds and insects to one
containing almost exclusively by-products
from the manufacture of human food.

3. The stress factors inherent in manage-
ment have required that birds and farm ani-
mals adapt themselves from a semi-wild ex-
istence in which they lived as individuals or
in veny small groups, with plenty of ground,
trees and scenery, to an environment in
which a bird is permitted less than 1 sq. ft.
of ﬂoor space, and a pig may have less than
910 sq. ft. Coupled with this are facilities for
feeding and watering which have been adOpt-
ed for the convenience of man, often without
regard to the needs of the birds and animals.
The whole system of vaccinating, debeaking
and handling which (has developed as a re-
sult of close conﬁnement, adds stress upon
stress with each new step.

4. Disease problems always increase when
the concentration of animals is greater.
These diseases include speciﬁc and non-
speciﬁc infections of the digestive and respL
ratory tracts—0RD, air sac disease, blue-
comib, turkey sinusitis and others have been
Widely reported.

Value of Antibiotics

The value of the antibiotics in preventing
and/or reducing the severity of damage from
any of these stress factors has been estab-
lished. Considerable variation exists, and
must be expected, since the outstanding
characteristic of each antibiotic is a high
degree of selectivity of action, and since
practically all naturally-occurring outbreaks
of disease are caused by more than one
agent.

Four antibiotics are in general use: baci-
tracin, penicillin, tetracycline (oxy- and
chlor-) and streptomycin. These antibiotics
have been used singly or in combinations of
two or three or even four. The growing ten-
dency is to use more and more combinations.
It is generally agreed that the antibiotics
exert their inﬂuence by their action upon the
:bacteria while they are in the digestive tract
(3) (4). Most investigators agree that sys-
temic infections are not adequately treated
by oral administration of antibiotics.

The antibiotics have been called miracle
drugs, but they are not nutrient substances
and cannot correct faults in the ration. They
have also been called magic medicines and
at times they do seem to act in a magic man-
ner, but they are not a substitute for sani-
tation and cleanlinness.

The primary place of the antibiotics is to
help to assure a high plane of nutrition, and
thus enable the 'body to resist or adjust to
stress. The low levels are doing an excellent
job and have established themselves as addi-
tives in practically all rations. How and
when high levels should be used has not been
agreed upon to nearly the same extent.

Best Before Stress Period

Antibiotics combat stress most effective-
ly and most economically when administered
(before a. stress period. Whenever it is pos-
sible to anticipate or predict a change which
probably will reduce feed consumption, the
additional or supplemental amounts of anti-
biotic will help to cushion the shock because
it will stimulate appetite. Stresses are more
active when nutritional deﬁciencies occur.
Since the ration has been formulated to pro-
vide all‘ of the known nutrients in proper
amounts and in the best proportion, when
consumed in the normal amount and re-
tained in the digestive tract for the normal
period, it is essential that normal feed intake
be maintained. Failure to accomplish. this,
adds malnutrition, undernutrition and body
depletion to the stress already present or im-
minent. Adding supplemental allowances of

(Continued on page 2)

4

Animal Experiments By
High School Students

By Clive M. McCay, Professor of Nutrition
Cornell University, Ithaca, New York

Research laboratories that work with ani-
mals receive letters every few weeks from
teachers of biology or their students in high
schools asking for animals. Most large lab-
oratories have some surplus of rats, hamsters
or rabbits that can be given these high
schools.

The question arises about what type of ex-
periments high school students should the en-
couraged to do with animals. In the past we
have based our decisions concerning provid-
ing animals upon whether or not anything
would be gained by experiments the student
might do. Two typical examples will illus-
trate these matters.

A high school student who was eighteen
years old and studying biology in a small high
school wrote and asked us for forty young
white rats in order that he might conduct
research upon lathyrism (severe poisoning
from certain seeds such as those of the sweet
pea).

We wrote the biology teacher objecting to
this request upon several grounds. Our ﬁrst
and minor objection was that it seemed
somewhat thoughtless for a high school stu-
dent to ask a research laboratory with mod-
erate resources to give him about thirty dol-
lars worth of animals.

However, our major objection was that we
are convinced that only a genius among high
school biology students would make any con-
tribution to new knowledge about lathyrism
inasmuch as highly trained specialists have
studied this problem during the past seventy
years.

The characteristics of lathyrism are well
known as incontinence, paralysis of the legs,
and spinal curvature. It was claimed that
this boy had been awarded honorable men-
tion in a state science talent contest by ex-
hibiting an animal with such symptoms. (The
judges were physical scientists who had
probably never heard of lathyrism and
thought the student had contributed some-
thing new.)

Our own objections to such demonstrations
are that nothing is illustrated of practical
or theoretical importance and the student
gains attention by the suffering and malfor-
mation that he inﬂicts upon a lower animal.
It is obvious that it is presumptuous for a
high school student to say that he is gomg
to do research upon lathyrism.

My own philosophy about such matters was
crystallized early. At the age of about 5 years
another boy and I became busily engaged
with a research study upon a litter of kittens.
Our study consisted of determining how many
times a kitten could swim across a tub full

(Continued on page 2)

 




THE GOSHEN PRACTITIONER SUM_MER 1956

Dear Doctor:

For the past several months we have been
receiving an Information Report from the
Animal Welfare Institute, 2'70 Park Avenue,
New York 17, New York. We have found this
report interesting and, beginning with this
issue of the Goshen Practitioner, we are pre-
senting information concerning this Institute
and, on page 1, an article from one of their
reports “Animal Experiments by High School
Students” by Clive M. MoCay, Professor of
Nutrition, Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York. We think that you veterinarians have
a responsibility to help educate the youth of
the land in a high ethical attitude toward
animal experimentation. We will run addi—
tional articles of theirs and more information
concerning them in future issues of the. GP.

The purpose of the Institute is to promote
the welfare of all animals and to reduce the
total pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by
man. They have“ available a booklet giving
their immediate aims, some of tiheir basic
principles and their method of operation;
also, one that you may ﬁnd quite helpful—
“Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Ani-
mals” which is a loose—leaf collection of ﬂoor
plans and construction details useful to those
planning to construct or remodel animal
quarters. There is also another [booklet en-
titled “Basic Care of Experimental Animals”
which is free, and another “First Aid and
Care of Small Animals” for which there is a
charge of 25c. 'Ilhis latter booklet is directed
toward teaching small children the proper
care of animals.

While on the subject of animals and their
care and living quarters, L. Sonnebom Sons,
Inc. have a material called SonNoMar which
we believe is second to none in its ability to
cover . old as well as new material with a
. coating that is impervious even to a high
content of acetic acid. We wish that we could
sell it for them but delivery costs on a gallon
of paint, at the price we would get for it,
{precludes that. Your local paint dealer can
get this material for you.

We want you to notice what we have said
about Solusept, the aerosol which forms a
“breathing,” ﬂexible, protective, continuously
germicidal ﬁlm with hemostatic qualities. It
is to be used on this basis rather than as a
heavy coating of material. It is thought that
one can of Solusept will cover about as much
as $7000 worth of ordinary bandaging ma-
terial. There’s quite a difference in price,
isn’t there?

Use the card and send us your order.

Cordially yours,

 

OBITUARY

It is with deep regret that we announce
the death of Robert P. Moore on Sunday,
May 6, 1956, at Youngstown Ohio.

At the time of his death, Mr. Moore was
a Field Representative for Goshen Labora—
tories, Inc., traveling several of the mid—
western states, a position which he had
held for many years.

 

 

 

ANTIBIOTICS IN MODERN DAY

STRESSES
(Continued from page 1)
the fractions of the vitamin B complex helps
to cushion the shock still more. Once the
imbalance has occurred it must be corrected
at the cellular level by the various enzyme
systems.

Failing to anticipate stress, the next best
time to use high levels of antibiotics is at the
very onset of trouble. This may (be sneezing,
or sniﬁling, or it may be a reduced feed con-
sumption. At this stage, it may be well to
add. antibiotic to the drinking water as well
as to the feed, since most birds and animals
will drink a normal amount of water or a
little extra, for a day or so at the onset of
disease and especially so if body temperature
rises above normal. The vitamins needed
are also water soluble and may be adminis—
tered at the same time.

When a stress can be anticipated, high
level antibiotic feeding with or without vita-
min supplement may carry the ﬂock over the
trouble period with hardly a noticeable inter-
ference with feed consumption and rate of
growth or production. It may be necessary
to keep the thigh levels for only four or five
days—themday before stress, the day on. which
it occurs, and for two or three additional
days to permit complete return to normal.
This is preventive medication.

Preventive 'Medication

When the stress in the form of disease has
produced recognizable symptoms, it may be
assumed that the entire ﬂock has already
been exposed. Prompt administration of high
levels of antibiotics in the water and in the
feed logically may (be expected to be effective
against the potentially pathogenic bacteria
and the secondary invaders or amortunists
while they are still in the digestive tract and
before they escape from the gut and establish
themselves in, the organs and tiswes of the
body. In most disease outbreaks, a few of
the weak birds ﬁrst permit invasion of the
tissues and thus multiply exposure of all the
remaining birds. Early treatment means
that only a few birds have damaged tissues,
and that preventive medication still is being
used on most of the ﬂock.

(If the disease is far advanced, treatment
will need to be longer and more intense in
order to overcome infection and to permit
nature to reestablish a normal level of feed
consumption and growth.

Thus, antibiotics do help to cushion the
shock when the ﬂock is subjected to stress.
They do this most effectively when used at
fairly high levels before or at the very start
of a stress period. Supplemental feeding of
vitamin B fractions is also effective in pro-
moting recovery from stress. However, nei-
ther the high levels of antibiotic nor the
supplementary vitamin B feeding should ever
be regarded as a substitute for strict sanita-
tion and careful management.

References
1. Gordon, E. S.-—What Is the Stress Syndrome?

‘Univ. of Wisconsin Veterinary Science News 8:20

(Oct-15, 1954).
Management; New Hampshire Poultry Health Con-
ference, Durham, Jan. 27, 1955.

2. Gordedk, Alex—Stress Factors in Poultry

3. Stokstad, E. L. R.-—-Antibiotics in Animal
Nutrition; Physiol. Rev. 34:25 (1954); Biol. Abst.
28221737 (September 1954).

4. Elam, J. F. Jacabs, R. L., Tidwell, W. L.
Gee, L. L.,- and Couch J. R.—Possible Mechamism
Involved in the Growth- Promoting Response
Obtained From Antibiotics; J. Nutrition 49: 307
(February, 1953).

“Reprinted from Feedstuﬂs, Oct. 29, 1955.

ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS BY
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS

(Continued from ' page 1)

of water. 'We had just gotten the research
through the exploratory stages when my fa-
uher discovered us. Needless to say we were
both paddled soun‘dlor and taught that kit-
tens had a right to fair treatment in the
world as well as boys.

I believe that the student who was produc-
ing lathyriam is injured more than the rat
because he fails to realize that there is no use
inﬂicting suffering upon [any animal unless
new knowledge is acquired.

A second example of a projected study by
a high school student has come to hand with-
in the past week. .This Student wrote and
wanted to know if we could provide him with
two young rats. He desired to build or buy
an exercise cage for each animal and then
feed each rat a diet typical of that eaten by
two different athletes.

No one would anticipate that this student
would make great discoveries but he would
learn much about food in planning and car-
rying out such a study. -‘

There are hundreds of good nutritional ex.
periments of this type that can be done with-
out any suffering of the animal and without
iniury to the sensitivity ”of the student. I
believe it is the duty of biology teachers to
orient students so that they will realize that
they must have long and severe, specialized
training before they are ﬁtted to go into re-
search that involves poisons, surgery or vivi—
section. With such training is bound to come
a realization that some suﬂering is inevitable
in the advancement of knowledge but that
there is never jmtiﬂcation fer needless suf—
fering.

E . we .. I
Information Report
Animal Welfare Institute
Vol. 5 No. ‘2

 

 

N-B-T

 

 

 

 

NAEPAINE . BENZOCAINE
TETRACAINE SOLUTION

 

 

 

A NEW. Porsu'r. LONGER
LAS'I'ING TOPICAL ANESTHE‘I'IC ~

N-B-T Solution combines the
advantages of rapidly induced,
potent Ndepoine‘ond Teirocaine
anesthetic and the long lasting
effect of slowly soluble? Ben—
zocoine in or Special non-oily'
vehicle.

302. bottle .......... ' .................. s 3.50

 

 

 

 




THE GOSHEN PRACTITIONER SUMMER 1956

 

What Your Clients May Have Read . . .

sum/”WW“ of current magazine and press articles on veterinary, medical and related subjects being read by
your clients. They are presented for your information without comment, recommendation or endorsement by
Goshen Laboratories, Inc. ,

PIGS DON’T NEED HIGH PROTEIN

Pigs fed 14 and 11 per cent [protein rations
produce just as good carcasses as those fed
higher protein rations with from 15 to 18
per cent protein. ,.

That’s what University of Minnesota hog
specialists L. E. Hanson and W. J. Aunan
found in tests the past two years. Well
balanced, properly fortiﬁed, lower level
protein rations gave as lean a meat, as
ﬁrm a carcass and as good a color as high
protein rations.

They explain that added supplements such
as vitamin B-12, antibiotics and some of the
B-comp1ex vitamins make it possible to step
down protein levels and still keep pigs us-
ing feed efﬁciently and gaining.

They ran two experiments and at....the end
of the tests there were no signiﬁcant dif-
ferences betweenthe two protein levels in
the pigs’ carcass length, weight, average
:backfat thickness, dressing percentage and
amounts of lean and fat tissue.

Nor was there any difference between the
protein levels in lean tissue color or carcass
ﬁrmness. In both experiments, with a total
of 54 pigs, all carcasses gave cuts ﬁrm and
bright-enough to rate No. 1.

University Farm News
Farmers Digest
May 1956

CUD INOCULA'I'ION NOT BENEFICIAL

Several years [ago it was announced to
dairy farmers that cud inoculation of dairy
calves was Ibeneﬁcial. To determine the value
of such inoculation, Dairy Husbandmen at
West Virginia University Agricultural Ex-
periment Station conducted tests with more
than 50 calves.

The calves that received rumen inoculation
had protozoa inisthe rumen by the second
week following inoculation. At the end of
eight weeks, protozoa were present in the
rumens of half of the non—inoculated calves,
and only two calves lacked protozoa at 16
weeks.

Under no feeding method were the in-
oculated calves superior in growth. In fact,
under . each feeding method the non-in-
oculated calves made somewhat larger gains
at a slightly less cost per pound.

riment Station workers say that
uanlexf 33:19.1 management conditions, .cud
inoculation is unnecessary and impractical.

West Virginia Experiment Station
Farmers Digest
May 1956

RESTORATIVE GRASS GIVES NEW HOPE
TO OLD LAND

Crested wheatgrass, which is widely used
to restore depleted northern Great Plains
ranges, has proved it can be an even bigger
boon to farmers than has «been suspected.

Twelve years of experimenting with crested
wheatgrass has convinced U. S. Department
of Agriculture agronomists it can be de-
pended upon to thrive on land that has
been overgrazed, mismanaged, abandoned, or
subject to frequent drought.

Plots of land seeded with crested wheat-
grass yielded seven times as much peren—
nial forage as native grasses on similar
amounts of land. The wheatgrass produced
two and one-half times as much total
forage as "native gram.

Crester wheatgrass seeds, spreads and
grows faster than most other grasses. It
can survive drought. However, Department
of Agriculture experiments show there is
little advantage in using it unless compet—
ing natural vegetation has been killed. Pre—
sumably this would be the case on depleted
range land.

The experiments also indicate that fall
seeding following a drought will renew
range land in the shortest time possible
with this method. The study was conducted
by the Department of Agriculture and the
Montana Agricultural Experiment Station.

Science News Letter
May 12, 1956

DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THE NEW
“SILO DISEASE”?

By Ralph D. Wennblom

Corn and legume plants sometimes store
up nitrates. Then the silage gives off a
deadly gas. Doctors now have proof that it
killed three Minnesota farmers last fall,
and sickened others.

Drought, hot weather and high—nitrogen
soils can team up to create a new health
hazard for you and your livestock.

The threat to farmers comes from inhaling
a new kind of poison gas given off by
fermenting silage - nitrogen dioxide (dif-
ferent from the carbon dioxide gas in silos
that we’ve known about for years.)

Livestock sicken because the silage con-
tains poisonous nitrates which get into the

bloodstream.

Let’s take the human side of it ﬁrst.

It was in 1954 that a strange sickness be-
gan affecting silo-ﬁllers in two or three
droughtmidden Missouri counties. There was
one known death. However, few people out-
side of Missouri paid much attention to it—
thought it was some freak local condition.

Then last fall, two Minnesota fbrothers, 28
and 31 years old, died mysteriously. Autop—
sies showed that they had inhaled nitrogen
dioxide. When the doctors cthecked back,
they discovered that about a month earlier,
\both brothers had tried to climb up the
chute of a silo that had been ﬁlled with
corn silage the day before. Choking fumes
had driven them back down, coughing.

This sent Doctors Thomas Lowry and
Leonard Schuman at the University of
Minnesota Medical School looking .for other
cases. They now have proof that the gas
killed one other farmer, and made three
more seriously ill. No one knows how many
may have been sickened. Some scientists
believe that illnesses diagnosed as “pneu—
monia” in past years were actually nitrogen
dioxide poisoning.

And the doctors suspect that small doses
of the gas may cause “Farmer’s Lung,”
which is fairly common among farmers but
rare among city people.

Now, the livestock angle.

High—nitrate forages can kill an animal.
(Farm Journal, July 1955.) Missouri farmers
who turned cattle into drought—damaged
cornﬁelds in 1954 loSt several thousand
head. Animals grazing stunted, high—nitrate
legumes also got sick.

Silage made from high—nitrate plants is
usually safe to feed after it’s been in the
silo a few months. However, scientists know
that animals don’t do as well on silage con-
taining excess nitrates, and suggest you sup-
plement it with an energy feed such as
molasses or corn.

Farm Journal
June 1956

PELLETED LAMB FEED PAYS OFF

Another boost for pelleted lamlb rations
comes from tests at the Colorado Experiment
Station.

Pellet--fed lambs needed an average of
175 pounds less feed per 100 pounds gain.
At the end of 6:7 days, 70% of them were
ready for market; less than a third of the
hand—fed ones.

Most efﬁcient gains in the test were made
by lambs fed a pelleted ration containing
40% alfalfa hay and 60% com. They made
100 pounds gain on 714 pounds feed, com-
pared with 975 pounds needed by lambs
hand—fed unpelleted corn and alfalfa hay.

Says scientist C. D. Story: “Pelleting added
about $1.50 per hundred to the cost of gain.
but the faster, more efﬁcient gains have
offset this added expense in nearly all, our
tests.”

Farm Journal
June 1956

 




 

 

 

FOR THE TREATMENT OF BURNS.
CUTS. WOUNDS, SKIN IRRITATIONS
AND QUICK CLOT'UNG OF SUPER-
FICIAL BLEEDING.

6 oz. diapenser $ 5.35
6 - 6 oz. dispensers 30.30

 

Therapeutic Spray-on

    

ANTISEPTIC

HEMOSTAT
PROTECTIVE FILM

SOLUSEPT (a specially processed hydrophilic powder and
Benzathonium Chloride) is an aerosol spray-on powder which
instantly combines with any body ﬂuid to form a breathing.

ﬂexible. protective. continuously germicidal ﬁlm. which makes further bandag-
ing unnecessary.

SOLUSEPT is effective against both aerobic and anaerobic organisms.

It will absorb at least 30 times its weight of body exudates and is an excellent
hemostat for the control of superficial bleeding.

. Applied as a powder, it immediately ab-
sorbs 30-50 times its weight in body exudates.
Also instantly coagulates blood.

     

Q Can be applied on any wound to produce
a protective film.

C Dries into a breathing, porous, continously
therapeutic film—«effective against both aero-
bes and anaerobes.

. All of the medicament is available The

film acts as a reservoir of medicament which
is continuously released.

. May be removed with water and gentle
abrasion. Although SOLUSEPT reacts instantly
with aqueous fluids to form an adherent film,

it is resistant to washaway by a stream of
water directed over the film.

 

 

 

 




    
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
 

r
‘6

AEROSOL

ANIMA-SPRA

KILLS Fleas. Lice and Ticks

A quick and convenient method to
rid dogs and other domestic animals
of insects. Iust spray directly on the
animal. Also useful in kennels and on
bedding.

 

Contains: Pyrethrins, Rote-
none and Piperonyl Cy-
clonene.

.1? we ‘45,?11 13‘ gum-25% , "-

ANIMA-SPRA

Rex} >~wr::-#€.t,z.+:.§3
i‘-a~'§s,\j.=,r:.;:.gce 3:5}DEHESR
. ....~ .

12 oz. dispenser ........................... $ 1.35

 

Dozen_12 ox. dispensers 13.50

LETHALAIRE nu

KILLS Resistant Flies. Mos-
quitoes. Wasps. Gnats and
,Moths.

A super-powered, all pur-
pose, high-pressure aerosol in
a throw-away container with
detachable applicator valve.

Contains Pyrethrins and Piper-
onyl Butoxide. Continuous
operation 26.5 min. —- treats
532,000 cubic ft.

Excellent for use in the hos—
pital, kennel, dairy barn, horse ..........................m
stable and Wherever there IS a QWH;:;;;;;W,..
fly problem.

21/2 lb. package with .
applicator valve ..--...... S 9.35

 

21/2 lb. package only .... ......... .. 7.85

 

 

INSECTICIDES - DEODORANT

A-SPA-SPRA

KILLS Flies. Gnats. Mosquitoes and
other ﬂying insects.

A PO‘TENT formulation containing
Pyrethrins 6% and Piperonyl Butox-
ide 4% for quick knockdown—sure

kill. Easy to use. Non-toxic to animals
When used as directed.

 

Leaves no messy residual,
taste or odor. Excellent for
use in the office, recep-

 

tion room, operating room ~ A - SPA -‘ SH“

and kennel. .1 1,. 4,3,7?

: insecticide new»: ﬁiW

. fVS Hm ~ Mouton-{mg snag, ”it“;

i . i ‘9 Siivmfixiz - Am

I”. f M": ($2.3m 09hr: simis‘m inner-*5,
my“ 35“ Kﬁmmzis snags:
‘8‘ SAiRY Bﬁﬂhfﬁ. ‘

12 oz, dispenser ........................ $ 1.85

 

   

Dozen 12 oz. dispensers 18.50 m ManutnUm/cd r... W
wan-EN macaw-ms.» We
Gum-u, How Yuk

 

    

 

  

  
 
  
 
 
    
   
  

DEODORANT

Contains “Metazine”.
Actually destroys odors chemi—
cally. It is neither a masking
agent nor a desensitizer. De—
stroys such objectionable odors
as tobacco smoke, dead rats,
garbage, perspiration and
skunk. Excellent for. use in the 3999“", ,
reception room, operating My: my... rim W..-
room and kennel.

20 oz. dispenser MW $2.05

 




THE GOSHEN PRQACTPTIONER SUMMER 1956

 

 

G. H. P. CARBAMIDE

Glycerite of Hydrogen Peroxide Carbamide ipc

TOPICAL ANTISEPTIC

Stable —

Bactericidal — Non-toxic

G.H.P. CARBAMIDE is a stable, peptizing, non—
toxic, non—allergenic, bactericidal and fungicidal.
agent having prolonged antiseptic activity. The
hydroscopic property enables G.H.P. CARBAMIDE
to draw plasma from wounds thereby releasing
free, active, nascent oxygen.

INDICATIONS: Otitis media and externa; Surgery—cysts,
abscesses, post-operative dressings, and post-operative incisions;
Dermatologically—pruritis ani, dermaphytosis; Gynecology—non-
specific vaginitis,

givitis, post-exodontia,

endocervicitis; Orally—stomatitis, gin-
Contains: Urea Peroxide 7% (equivalent to Hydrogen Peroxide

2.6%), 8-Hydrox‘yquinoline 0.10/o in an anhydrous solution of
Glycerol and Propylene Glycol.

8 oz. bottle
Dos. 8 0:. bottles

3 2.10
22.80

A new radiant heating mat that is waterproof and
portable. Made of heavy corrugated rubber-covered .

sheet steel and element. Cannot be damaged or
mutilated by animals. Easy to clean by hosing or
scrubbing. Maintains temperature of 30 degrees F
above ambient at about a penny a day. Guaranteed
for one year.

Useful as a shock reducer following operations,
whelping, Caesarian sections and accidents —— as
a radiant heater in the kennels — as a dryer after
shampooing (dries ventral surfaces which forced
hot air blowers usually do not reach) — wherever
there is a need to keep animals warm.

Size: 24 in. x 12 in.

PriCe: $1’l00 ..

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  

Eliminate Infection
in Wounds, Lesions and lnoisions

by simple topical application

ALL NYLON...

Pet - A - Groom

...PET BRUSH

Available in a display carton of
six brushes containing three brushes
with stiff texture bristles for long hair
pets and three brushes with medium
texture bristles for short hair pets.

$10.00

Pet carton

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE GOSHEN

_ NEW PRODUCTS

Calphosan Tablets

A new supplement combining Calcium
Lactate (a phosphorus free calcium 'salt)
with Aluminum, Hydroxide Gel to perci-
pitate dietary phosphorous ions from the
gastrointestinal tract, fortified with B12.
Contains no phosphorous in any form and
the Aluminum Hydroxide is added to pre-
vent precipitation of dietary calcium in
the lower intestinal tract.“ Indicated in
pregnancy and lactation in small animals;
also as maintenance therapy where
Calphosan is given intramuscularly

Bottle of 106 $1.25

Distrep - Sulfa - Tablets

Dihydrostreptomycin with Sulfonamides
For use in the treatment of infectious
calf scours and swine enteritis.

 

Each tablet contains:
Dihydrostreptomycin Base (as sulfate)

125 mgms:
Phtyalylsulfacetimide 15 gr.
Sulfathiazole 15 gr.
Sulfapyridine 5
Sulfamerzaine 5

Bottle of 25

 

Pipzine Tablets

Each tablet contains ‘500 mg. piperaine
citrate.

An effective Anthelmintic for the elimina-
tion of hookworms and ascarids in dogs
and cats. Pipzine is virtually non-toxic
and well tolerated. No pretreatment
starving or purging is necessary.

Bottle of 100 ' $2.35

 

ALRAC

A non-alakalinizing antacid for prompt
and sustained action in the treatment of
gastric hyperacidity.

Each tablet contains Dihydrcxy Alumi-
num Aminoacetate 0.333 Gm. and Mag-
nesium Trisilicate 0.167 Gm.

Bottle of 100 $ 1.25

Bottle at 1000 $10.50

KAO-CELLULIN

Aids in restoring normal peristaltic
function in fermentative and infectious
diarrheas. Absarbs and eliminates toxins
and other intestinal irritants.

Each 30cc. contains "Electros" English
Colloidal Kaolin 6 Gm. and Methylcellulose
400 cps. .45 Gm.

802. bottle 3 .65

Gallon ’ 6.50

 

 

 

 

 

PRACTITIONER SUMMER 1956

 

 

-|®

(reserpine CIBA)

 

SBI‘IJ

A
TRANQUILIZER
for
controlling abnormal
emotional responses

in dogs.

Clinical results in veterinary Ipractice indicate that
SERPASIL has wide application in sustained control of nervous
symptoms in dogs with a history of grand mal seizures, running
fits and hysterical barking, or in highly nervous animals with
“neurotic”. tendencies.

The tranquilizing effect of SERPASIL reduces highly
nervous and anxious patients to a state of relaxation and
high degree of indifference to stresses which normally would

produce a violent response.
Tablets. 0.1 nag. Tablets. 0.25 mg.

Bottle of 100 s 257 Bottle of 100 .$ 4.50
Bottle of 500 12.25 Bottle of 500 20.60

PERMA-ICE

The None-melting, Re-usable, No Mess lce

MICE“

Whig“

h “ft-yr
vakm
4,401

 

A new, non-melting ice that can be used over and over again. It is
soft and flexible at room temperature but becomes solid as ice when
frozen, without the mess and melting cf ordinary ice. Perma- Ice—
captures cold hours longer than ordinary ice—freezes quickly in any
refrigerated Space where water will freeze—can be used as a hot pack
by simply placing it in boiling water for a few minutes. Excellent for
protecting biologicals Or perishables away from the refrigerator.
Travel-Pak (1 lb.) 5 .98

Twin-Pal: (2 lbs.) 1.85
Sportsman's1 Blanket (3 lbs.) 2.65

 

 

 

 




Li .L .Q Q

'

'1

IS "N"

\T

i

/\.
d;

C
k)
[encies of cattle and swim?

I
J.

v
\

1g}.
J»
A

7'\
{\

,"'\

A) L“;
7 "" T“ 7“.

3 E '\ 45.1 #—
tal Ix) J. .__' I"

enuaav gJed 0L3

“ﬁliﬁul edexlea lewxuv

4,

T
1
\

1.
}
L

_CSAN

W1

 




CONNECTICUT

 

 

 

 

 

 

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT

October, 1955, VOL. XXVII, NO. 1

 

ANIMAL EXPERIMENTATION IN SCHOOLS

Humanitarians have become increas-
ingly concerned overa growing animal
and child-protective problem; the wide-
spread use of animals for experimenta-
tion in elementary and high schools and
by high school students in their homes.
It is regretable that at least two colleges
and two donors of national science con-
test prizes encourage activities which
are cruel to animals and detrimental to
the character of the youths engaged in
them. Also, a number of manuals and
publications have been issued by other
groups describing and encouraging the
use of animals in nutrition “experi-
ments” by young children.

Dr. Portia Hamilton, a clinical and
consulting psychologist and psychother-
apist of wide experience, who has sym-
pathy for and understanding of children,
pointed out the dangers of exposing them
to such projects and warned against the
possibility of increasing the child’s na-
tural hostilities or aggressive tendencies
and effectively laying the basis for sad-
istic behavior. She emphasized especially
the repercussion on disturbed children,
of which there are a few in every class-
room, indicating at the same time the
extreme unwholesomeness for the un-
disturbed child. ‘

Newspaper accounts of such “experi-
ments” describe grade school children
observing the onset of blindness in ani-
mals which have been deliberately de-

prived of proper nourishment, and fre-'

quently report death of the animals as
the outcome. Manuals suggesting nutri-
tion experiments for schools sometimes
list as symptoms which may be expected
from the deficient diets offered: bloody
discharges, the swelling eyelids till they
close, and the dropping out of teeth.

High school students are encouraged
to carry out animal experiments at home
by the hope or .by the actual receipt of
science fair prizes.

Reputable medical schools have al-
ways required that student work with
animals be conducted under proper su-
pervision in the laboratories of the
institution. We find untrained boys in
their teens conducting unsupervised,
survival experiments in surgery in the
privacy of their homes and actually be-
ing rewarded for it! It is worth noting
that the principals of the schools which
these youths attend decline to take any
responsibility whatever for the activities
described.

While studying the extent of this
problem, officers of the Animal Welfare
Institute have written to some of the
groups responsible for 'encounageing
animal experimentation by children and
youth asking them to change their policy.
These requests do not appear to have
been effective to date. Public attention
apparently will have to be focussed on
the matter before the necessary action is
taken by such groups. '

 




 

2 THE CONNECTICUT HUMANE BULLETIN

 

THE CONNECTICUT HUMANE SOCIETY

A Quarterly Magazine published on the first day
of January, April, July and October by the Con-
necticut Humane Society, 300 Washington Street,
Hartford, Connecticut. Price 25 cents per year.

Entered as second-class matter September. 24,
1929, at the post office at Hartford, Connecticut,
under the act of March 3, 1879.

J. SETH JONES, Editor
Henry S. Robinson, Jr., President

Vice Presidents
Ralph D. Cutler Barclay Robinson
J. H. Kelso Davis Arthur L. Shipman, Jr.,
James Spencer Taintor
John H. Brooks, Treasurer
Hartford National Bank and Trust Company,
Assistant Treasurer
Mrs. William B. Dana, Secretary
Mrs. William E. C. Bulkeley, Assist. Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mr. John deK. Alsop

Mr. Ralph D. Cutler

Mr. George H. Gilman, Jr.
Rev. Charles Goodwin

Mr. James Lee Loomis, Jr.
Mr. George W. Oberst
Mrs. Henry Schenck

Mr. Arthur L. Shipman, Jr.
Mr. Barclay Robinson

Mr. Julius B. Smith

Mr. G. Harold Welch

James Spencer Taintor, Investment Counsel

General Manager J. Seth Jones
Director, Animal Dept. Reed W. Hitchcock
Director, Children's Dept. Barbara Van Gaasbeek
Director of Education Mrs. T. G. Vail
Financial Secretary Helene G. Tofeldt

 

Page 1 is fnom a Report of Animal
Welfare Institute

The problem has caused some trouble
in Connecticut. We have had two com-
plaints concerning young- men from
different high schools. Each caught and
dissected '~ their neighbor’s scat after
watching the experiment in school.

We also have had numerous com-
plaints from mothers of small children
who were disturbed because of the
treatment of small animals that were
used in the lower grades for nutrition
experiments.

Walter H. Phelps

Walter H. Phelps, for 32 years a mem—
ber of our staff, died very suddenly
June 2-2nd. Mr. Phelps was a caseworker
in our Children’s Department, investiga-
ting situations of neglected children
and aged persons in Hartford, Tolland,
Windham and Litchfield Counties.

 

He was born in Hartford, August 5,
1885, son of the late Frank B. and Ida
Charlmers Long Phelps. He was gradu-
ated from Hartford Public High School
and lived in Windsor for some years
before coming to Hartford. He was once
probation officer for the Windsor Town
Court. He joined the Connecticut
Humane Society February 1, 1923.

Mr. Phelps all his life was interested
in horses. In his earlier years he owned
several fine horses. He liked to buy
animals with some imperfection and
work with them until they were in first
rate shape.

One of his hobbies was rebuilding
fancy four-wheel light rigs of the kind
seen at gymkhanas and horse shows.
He also liked to refurbish harness and
restore antiques.

As a young man Mr. Phelps played
the Violin in the old Hartford Philhar-
monic Orchestra.

He was a member of Hiram Lodge,
A.F. & A.M., Bloomfield. He leaves his
wife, Mrs. Lillian Falk Phelps; a daug-
ter, Mrs. Janice Phelps Luce of Los
Angeles, Calif.; a sister, Mrs. Alfred
G. Mason and a brother, George D.
Phelps, both of West Hartford.

Mr. Phelps was an able worker and
his position will be very difficult to fill.

 

General J. 5. Robinson

Joins Staff

Joseph S. Robinson, Brigadier Gener-
al, retired, on August lst joined the
Staff of our Children’s Department,
Hartford Office, succeeding the late
Walter H. Phelps.

General Robinson is a native of Mass—
achusetts and comes from a seafaring
family. He is a graduate of West Point
and received a Masters Degree in Educa-
tion from Boston University, majoring
in Education, minoring in Social Studies.

 

 

 




THE CONNECTICUT HUMANE BULLETIN

 

General Robinson’s military duties
were many and varied. He taught at
West Point and other military posts. He
was on duty with the Gold Star Mothers.
During the war he was in command of
the 34th Antiaircraft Brigade, serving
in North Africa, Sicily, Salerno, Naples
and Anzio. He also paticipated in the
invasion of southern France and the
break through into Germany and Aus-
tria.

General Robinson received numerous
military awards: Legion of Merit
(twice), Bronze .Star, Commendation
Ribbon, French Legion of Honor, Croix
de Guerre, the Italian Valor Medal and
the Order of Umberto.

He has six children. Michel, the old-
est, is a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air
Force. Alice is the wife of a Lieutenant
Colonel in the Army. Gilbert is a textile
engineer. Odile is the wife of an Army
Captain. Hugh is an electrical engineer
and Elizabeth, the youngest, is married
to an army Lieutenant of Engineers.

General Robinson became a widower
in 1940- and remarried in 1952. He and
Mrs. Robinson reside at 6 Niles Park,
Hartford, Connecticut.

 

Miss Van Gaasbeek, President of
Staff Group

Miss Barbara Van Gaasbeek, Director
of our Children’s Department, has been
elected President of the Staff Group
Committee of the Family and Child Wel—
fare Division of the Greater Hartford
Community Council.

The Staff Group consists of profes—
sional social workers of the social agen-
cies working in the Greater Hartford
area.

Miss Van Gaasbeek will also be a rep—
resentative to the Executive Committee
of the Division. This past year Miss
Van Gaasbeek also served as Program
Chairman of the Staff Group.

Stepmother Problem

Children over 16 years of age, who
are physically mistreated at home, are
difficult to help because our State Sta-
tutes define a child as a person under
16 years.

There are no legal provisions for these
situations except the arrest of persons
who have beaten a child. This is often
not a solution. Usually the child over 16
has been mistreated for some time, but
this had not been reported while the
child was under 16.

Most of these children called to our
attention are girls who have come to the
point where they are about to run away
from home as they do not know where
to turn for help. If the girl is working
and able to support herself, we refer
her to a family case work agency for
counselling and guidance in her plans to
leave home.

For the 16 and 17 year old girls who
wish to complete high school, the matter
of support away from home is a prob-
lem, as in most instances parents are un-
able or unwilling to pay full cost of care
in a neutral placement.

Carol R., age 16 years, was referred
to us by a high school counselor as she
had been beaten by her stepmother on
several occasions. Carol had a good
school record, and was in no way delin-
quent, but her home situation was intol-
erable, due to her stepmother’s treat-

ment.

Our worker talked with the step-
mother and Carol’s father, but both
were emotionally disturbed persons, and
unjustly critical of Carol, who could do
nothing to please them. Mr. R’s brother
was aware of the situation, and had
offered to take Carol into his home,
but Mr. R. would not agree to this plan.

Carol was unwilling to testify against
her stepmother. However, a few weeks
later she was againbeaten and marked

 




 

4 THE CONNECTICUT HUMANE’ BULLETIN

 

by her stepmother and was so desperate
she would do anything in an effort to
get away from home. Our worker ac-
companied ‘Caroll to the Prosecuting
Attorney, and supported her in a com-
plaint. The stepmother was summoned
to appear before the Prosecutor on a
charge of breach of peace. She and the
father were represented by an attorney.
Our worker recommended that Carol
live 'with her uncle. After considerable
resistance, her father agreed to this
plan. - ' '

Six months have elapsed and Carol
has adjusted fairly well with her uncle,
who is giving her free care. Her father,
however, is still trying to instigate
trouble. It will be necessary for our
w0rker to continue to consult with Carol
and her uncle for some time to come.

 

RECENT PROSECUTIONS

Fails to Provide Proper Housing

A man, who after repeated warnings
failed to clean out his barn and provide
his cattle and horses with proper shelter,
was brought into the S-uffield Town
Court, given a 10 days suspended jail
sentence and put on six months pro—
bation.

 

Throws Stick At a Puppy

A man, in Hartford who threw a stick
at his neighbor’s puppy and broke a
bone in the paw, was arrested, but his

case was nolled after he paid the veter-

inary bill.

 

Shoots Neighbor’s Cat
A man, who shot his neighbor’s eat,
but did not kill it, was arrested, found
guilty, but sentence was suspended in
the Groton Town COurt.

Search Warrant

Agent Kennedy of Westport received
a complaint that a man had been away
for five days and had left a dog shut
in his apartment. Mr. Kennedy went

there, found mail that was five days old
and could hear the dog crying.

He obtained a search warrant which
was served by the Norwalk Police and
the dog was rescued. This man had as-
sumed that he could leave food enough
for the duration of his absence. There
were four pans on the floor, but no wa-
ter and only three dog biscuits left. The
dog was in such condition it could not
eat and it required hospitalization.

A warrant was obtained for the own-
er’s arrest. He was fined $75.00, but
as he had four children to support,
$50.00 was remitted when he released
the dog to the Society. The dOg was
placed in a new home and is making
out very well.

Children Quickly Placed

Four Negro children now have a fair
chance to grow to useful adulthood be-
cause the Humane Society was given
an opportunity to show them the way.
The problem arose because the S. child-
ren, age 8-18, were all that remained
of their family. The mother had died
three years earlier, and when the over-
burdened father deserted, they were
left entirely alone and helpless. An im—
mediate call to the Connecticut Humane
Society by the manager of the project
in which they lived opened the case,
which quickly became a remarkable
demonstration of family and community
cooperation.

Following contacts by our worker the
same day, aunts, uncles and paternal
grandmother, as well as several neigh-
bors, offered shelter, clothing and love
to these lonely children. As a result,
just one week after the father’s deser-
tion, our Social Worker had the satis-
faction of seeing three of the youngsters
living with their grandmother in a de-
cent country atmosphere and the young'
est girl benefiting from the comfort
and love of her favorite aunt and uncle.

The 18 year old girl has finished high
school with a good academic record-

 




 

THE CONNECTICUT HUMANE BULLETIN 5

She is now employed with her grand-
mother, and is saving money towards
a nursing education.

The younger children were promptly
enrolled in school and attend dancing
classes and church activities. They have
recently discovered the pleasures of
having pets.

Adoption plans are in the offing. The
spirit of cooperation continues in the
new community with neighbors, who
were strangers, taking a helpfully active
interest in the newcomers’ welfare.

The Humane Society, so often the
only voice of conscience in situations
like this one, was pleased to find so
much immediate concern among others
—a factor which made the going smooth-
er for everyone as the Society’s facil-
ities moved to organize and coordinate
the efforts of many untrained, but
willing hands.

 

Skunk Rescued

The Society frequently gets calls for
a skunk that has fallen into the cellar
window well. Usually if a board is placed
into the well the skunk will come out at
night.

Agent Kennedy had a call where the
skunk seemed to like this location. He
burrowed a tunnel from the well to a
point in the driveway where he made
a little cave. He was fed daily but would
not come out, and he was too far back
to reach safely.

Agent Kennedy put chloroform in the
hole and when the skunk was unconsci—
ous was able to extricate it.

After a little artificial respiration
the skunk revived and ran off into the
woods causing no damage.

Congratulations to the City Of
New Haven

On June 25th the City of New Haven
0Pened a new Animal Shelter which will
Serve as the legal dog pound. This is the
ﬁnest Municipal shelter in the East. It
cost the City better than $41,000.00.

A committee known as the Humane
Commission has been appointed by the
Mayor to supervise the activities at the
shelter and the work of the Dog Warden.

Mr. William Gold'becvker is Chairman
of this Commission, Mr. Allan Loeb,
President of the Dog Welfare League
and Dr. Salo Jonas 3. well known Vet-
erinarian are also members. The other
two members are Mrs. Joseph A. Fiorito
and Mr. Marvin Hayden, well known in
local dOg circles.

The Shelter is a brick building with
individual pens and outSide runs. Two
outstanding features are a well equipped
service room and an incinerator, capable
of properly disposing of bodies of those
dogs that cannot be saved.

 

Family Preserved
Psychiatric Care For Mother

A situation called to our attention by
a probation officer concerned a family,
consisting of a father, mother and two
children. The parents had been separated
and the father had been tried in Super-
ior Court on .a charge of abandonment
and was on probation. The father want-
ed a divorce to enable him to marry
another woman but it was not believed
that he had sufficient grounds. He was
to pay a certain sum towards the sup-
port of his family and it was felt that
when his probation period was up he
would fail to do so.

The mother had a good home which
she kept in a clean and orderly condition.
She gave her two children the best of
care. She was emotionally disturbed to
the extent she hesitated to answer when
asked 1questions and had difficulty in
remembering. She was desirous of ob-
taining psychiatric care, including shock
treatments, that would help her. Living
fifteen miles from a hospital she appre-
ciated our furnishing her transportation
to and from the clinic. After ten shock.
treatmentsthis young mother has fully
recoveredhand formsome~ timewhas been

 




 

6 THE CONNECTICUT HUMANE BULLETIN

working nights while her father cares
for the children.

The parents are still separated but
the father has been forced to contribute
to the support of his family and this,
with what the mother earns, has been
sufficient to permit them to live com-
fortably. The mother continues to give
the children excellent care. At her re-
quest we are still keeping in contact
with her, making occasional visits to
the home.

 

Mutilator Escapes Penalty

The difficulties of bringing some
people to justice are insurmountable.

There was a female dog in season in
the neighborhood and a male dog down
the street was very attentive. Two men
tried to catch the male dog, but were
unable to do so. They asked a young boy
to help and he was successful. They
then so seriously mutilated the dog
that it required veterinary treatment.

Agent Parker obtained a warrant
for their arrest. The Court also issued
a warrant for the owner of the male
d0g for failing to obtain a license and
permitting it to roam. The boy was the
only witness but his mother objected to
his going to Court and the Court would
not su\bpoena the child.

The owner of the mutilated dOg ob-
tained a license and withdrew his com—
plaint, and then the Prosecuting At-
torney decided to drop all charges.

These men should have suffered the
maximum penalty under the law. As
the matter shaped up any penalty proved
impossible.

 

Dog Returned To Owner In
California

A Massachusetts family went to Cal-
ifornia on vacation and left their dog
with a sister in Connecticut. They deci-
ded to remain there, but they received
information that their dog was being

neglected. An investigation by our So-
ciety proved this to be true.

On instructions from the rightful
owner, the dog was seized, given veter-
inary treatment and shipped to the own-
er in California by air at their expense.

We have received word that the re-
union was a happy one —- everyone,
including “Buttons”, is very pleased.

 

Selecting A Puppy

Vacation is over. Many children are
now looking for a pet. If you eXpect to
buy a puppy for Xmas, now is the time
to plan.

T'hought should be given to size and
breed for your location and circum—
stances. Whatever you select get the
best you «can afford, have the necessary
inoculations to protect its health. Human
nature is such that a sizable investment
receives the best care and attention.

A shy puppy is usually a poor selec-
tion. Watch the litter and you can select
a happy one. Happiness is a sign of good
health.

Arrange for an immediate veterinary
examination, the sale not to be complet-
ed until the doctor approves.

Decide on where the puppy is going
to sleep and have a bed ready before it
arrives. Be sure the bed is free from
draft and not near a radiator.

Teach the child that an animal is not
a mechanical toy, that it must not be
handled roughly, that it needs careful
feeding, fresh water and care and rest
just as a child does..Children seldom
understand that squeezing and rough
handling can seriously injure a puppy.

If the tiny creature is lonesome and
cries at night try an alarm clock in the
corner of its bed. The ticking may
soothe the uncertain mind and induce
the needed sleep.

Write to the Connecticut Humane
Society for a pamphlet on housebreak-
ing and training.

 

 




 

 

 

THE CONNECTICUT HUMANE BULLETIN 7

Humane Treatment For Pets
In Danger

So vast an amount of human misery
and privation was occasioned by the
recent flood that it has perhaps been
easy to overlook the distress and danger
that the flood waters brought to pets in
the stricken areas. The Connecticut
Humane Society has distributed almost
two tons of dog and cat food in several
communities in the state. Most of the
food was donated by manufacturers.

In Waterbury alone, at least 115 dogs
and cats were placed with various vet-
erinarians for care during the emer-
gency. Many of these animals had been
rescued, at considerable hazard, by their
owners and by members and agents of
the Humane Society.

A. basic human instinct is that of self-
preservation, and one might argue from
this that, at a time when human lives
are at stake, dogs and cats might well
be left to fend for themselves. But the
heart dictates otherwise, and humani-
tarian feelings know no such boundaries.
Many a water—soaked and bedraggled
animal that had won for himself a warm
corner in some human heart has been
restored to his master or mistress after
the hazards of the flood. Not least of
the fine qualities illuminated by the
flood was that of compassion for animals

in distress.
The Hartford Courcmt, September 12, 1955

 

Our New T. V. Program

Mrs. Beatrice Connelly, dog trainer
and Mrs. Thomas Vail, our Director of
Education, took part in Ralph Kanna’s
Television progam this summer over
WKNB channel 30 for nine successive
weeks.

Each week a puppy or a kitten from
the Society’s Kennel’s was offered for
adoption. Mrs. Vail gave a description
of other pets in our kennels to the view-
ing audience. Lost dogs were exhibited
in the hope of finding their owners.

The first week Mrs. Connelly gave a
resume of dog obedience. In the follow-
ing weeks she explained in detail each
phase of simple obedience using her un-
trained six months old German Shepherd
Donna.

The children in the studio audience
were fascinated with the pets on the pro-
gram and were deeply interested in
Donna going to Dog School.

A child, who had saved to buy a pet
of her own, gave the money instead to
the flood relief. Our Society presented
this considerate child with a beautiful
golden cocker spaniel puppy.

Connecticut Humane Society
Flood Relief

As soon as the Connecticut Humane
Society learned of a shortage of dog
food, 2!OO lbs. were sent to Winsted by
the Army. Our agent James R. Parker
also delivered 1100' lbs. In Winsted the
Dog Warden had reported 16 dogs
without food.

The worst dog problem was in Water-
bury, Where we have two agents. The
State Dog Warden, our workers, the
local Dog Warden, his assistant and six
National Guardsmen, —- all under the
Chief of Police rescued 75 dogs and 40
cats and placed them with various vet-
erinarians.

The Connecticut Humane Society
staff has continued to be active, assis-
ting in animal rescue work, donating
and distributing a 1/2. of a ton of dog
food and also distributing 1%. tons of
dog food given by manufacturers. We
still have on hand 1A.» ton for distribution
as needed. Credit should be given to Mrs.
Evon Goldsmith, Norwalk, Connecticut
chairman of the National Dog Welfare
Guild, who solicited and obtained dog
food from the following companies: ~—
Quaker Oats, Kasco, Armour, Gaines,
Doyle Packing 0b., Spratt’s and Lib-
ners of Norwalk. the Connecticut Pack-
ing Co. was also a donor.

 




THE CONNECTICUT HUMANE BULLETIN

 

While this Society appreciates the gift
of approximately two tons of food, it
involved agreat deal of work by our
staff, picking up the food in various
parts of the State, Norwalk, Bridgeport
and Westport, before it could be deliv-
ered to the stricken areas. Our men de-
livered continuously dog food to every
disaster struck town where dogs were
in the control of Public authorities.

This Society delivered food for 125
dogs and 80 cats, an average of over
20 lbs. per dog. Most of the owners
were able to take their dogs with them,
others drowned.

If any one knows of any dogs or cats
needing food, contact the Connecticut
Humane Society immediately.

Miss Barbara Van Gaasbeek, Director
of our Children’s Departmennt, assisted

’ .

the Red Cross in the flooded Winsted
area.

The Society has received some contri-
butions to help defray the expenses.

American Humane Association
Calendar

The American Humane Association
is offering a very attractive calendar
for 1956. The charge is 10¢ each and
orders can be in boxes of 10 if desired,
with [an additional charge of 5¢ for each
box of 10. Envelopes are furnished for
each calendar.

You may order them directly from
the American Humane Association at
896 Pennsylvania Street, Denver, Col-
orado, or through this Society, Box 66
Station A., Hartford 6, Conn., up to
November lst.

' FORM OF BEQUEST

I give and bequeath to the Connecticut Humane Society, incorporated

in 1881, having its principal oﬂice at 300 Washington Street, Hartford,

Connecticut, the sum of ...................

of the Society.

..... dollars, to be applied to the use

 




 

2’ 4.3% "‘ 2 v" ‘ . '2‘ '33: ' . ,., “ ‘_ 1 «1., 2,. a"? '-;%g- - ,2; , ,. V"A“;"’:".., . '13“ "5_ 2
2% 22’ :22 .. , _ ,3 .. 2.3 ‘22:: 2.222 22 2.. 2.22:: 2..., 2m}

/

.. 22,.

,. .2, .n. 7 *,;,_‘, 5 ., .42., .. ., 3”,, ﬂ»,‘=. :. ,9 ,5. 2,.- R, ,2 ," V
WWW” 2322 9 2“ 2222.222, 222222222 ...2 2:22. 2 2. 22 2.22222 :2

A
L

3
'l‘ "f"

I

m f: ﬁfwg ”222% ﬂMg} 2 . i ‘ 531 ﬂﬂﬁwﬂﬁﬁl 3 a 5.315127 g £31523“ {:2 7" €63?
22,3 4" .‘ ', , . , ., . .. . 2,1 WM... , ':’ . _,,_ ‘ A. I ,‘ ‘ V}: I r ' T :3": > I. h
22*“2222 ”22:2!“ ' , 2:222:22: 222:2 2:2 22’: 222::

2‘23 .3 2.22: 222
'2? 2'2: . 2'? 2’
22222222222222 22:22 2.22.: .2 i2 3
3.2222 ~22 22 ‘12:.222222, 2223‘ -2. .. 2.22 .222 .22. .- 222.2222
’ 22,2” 22 22: 222:2 22:22:! “222»
2.22222*22..2” 722.222” 2237? 2.2.2:: 222222

2222

2222:2332 2222*“,W24,’ ””2

~59.

‘23 3‘1 22¢”??? 22 2222.222 ‘2. 2.2: 223.... 2:2: :2. 22223.2
M MW W 23:” 2‘2” W 22 22221 2'22 22 2 22;; " 2 22.2222“ 7.22222 222222 .22 22 2222‘ 22 2' E 22:27: 222.2

44.2, . , 3:4,: .v; .u / - , ,1.” 3., .5 1 V . new : ,2-.«- i» _ ’3‘ ‘ ”I. . 03R 3'. . ‘ -

igﬁﬁaﬁzi‘?’ 22‘3; : 53“”; gmwi ’23 %’£&Xﬂ*% EEK “€55? " ,. . W 2.2 V, £212? ﬁg; §$§Q % 22:23:53». HwZv- 1314 ﬁg 5:

.2 2“»; :

.iy23ff a '22.}: 522%.: .,',-:;~ maﬁa; 22:32?" '15.}: [2'11" ‘2 {a}, 4"; «’4', ﬁg; £2 3"!” a. 4% i Z '32:; \.+€?$"5"

“.422222 2‘? 222 2:222 .2 :2 2.222 2222.2... 2. 22..--.. .22: 22.2.2: 2222:? 222 222.22-32.22“:
:2 222 22 7:... :2 2222.22212: 2222?. :2 2 22.222222122222222 w 22': 22 2'22, 2 22.2 22 2222. 222222;
’3: .2222 222222 22222 ”‘2 2.23 *2 2:22.222. 222 22. 22:.“ 22222 22:22 2:22 :22 2.2: 2222 2. F2 2222. 2.22»
22 3.2.2.2.: 222222. .4 2.: ....222.222222 '2. :2. .2222... 2.. :2 2.2:: 22 22 22:22:.
22. ”222222.222: 2.22 2222222222222: :22“ ‘2 222 2.: :2 :2 2222 2.222 222222.222 2:22 2:2. ““2
222: .2. 22 22,, .3... 2 ,2.» 322232232322 . 222 22. 222222: 2 22222.22: 2 2222.2- 2222 2223222222. 222:2
22.22 2: 222222: 2 22222222 2 22222.1 2...: 22.2.2 22222222 222: ”222 2222:. 2.2 222222 2.2

2222222222

2:: 2:22.222 2 22.2.2. :22
2;" E‘W'iﬁ

1'? 6'09 “,3: 2' .- .
334g 33 2.91:.” mi '

 




j’o/m Metcalf

PUBLIC RELATIONS LTD

 

n GROSVENOR HILL - w.1
MAYFAIR 7172

FINCHLEY MAN TO RECEIVE AMERICAN ANIMAL WELFARE AWARD

The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the American Animal Welfare Institute
and a cheque for S 500 will be presented to Major Charles W. Hume on
Friday evening (October 12) at 9. 45 p.m. in the Connaught Hotel, Carlos
Place, Mayfair, W. 1.

This awardis in recognition of his services to the welfare of
laboratory animals. The presentation Will be made by Mrs. Christine
Stevens, President of the Animal Welfare Institute (New York) who has come
eSpecially to London for this purpose. She is the wife of financier Roger
Stevens , Chairman, Finance Committee of the National Democratic Party.

Major Hume is Director of the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare which he founded originally in 1926 as the University of London
Animal Welfare Society. It is a unique animal welfare society with a
membership composed entirely of persons with University training, many

of whom are engaged in the biological sciences. The Federation has shown
active interest in all animals whose sufferings are often overlooked. Major
Hume/resides at 284 Regents Park Road, Finchley, N. 3. and was a senior
examiner at the Patent Office and a former Honorary Secretary of the
British Science Guild.

The Animal Welfare Institute, 270 Park Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.
is interested in the humane treatment of all animals and is particularly
interested in the welfare of animals used in laboratories - an aSpect of
humane work which has received little practical attention in most countries.
The first international presentation of the Institute's medal was made to
humanitarian Albert Schweitzer in recognition of his writings on the welfare
of animals which he has aptly summed up as: ”We need a boundless ethics
which includes the animals also”. With his permission a medal in his
honour has been struck and is awarded annually by the Institute.

Should you wish to attend, we will be pleased to make the necessary
arrangements.

With compliments :
Andrew W. Robertson

 




Sent to 99,1313, Wm Ymngﬁerber'b Kenny and Dr.wa1ker (53193509118 9 Kenny an an'rep 130°) .-

999999 99.9.. 99.99:“?

.9793 9999 9999999
93999 9999 1?, 99......

1.3999991' 29.95.199.333
.999 9.9.9999 9999 1...

9 “92:99 9999999 99 91-2; 9.9 9.99 3.9999999 9999999999999 :99 9999999999999 99999 9999999999999 59 3.99
. .99. 9999 999999999 , '9... "99:99:99 9.. 993.9 9:9 .9 9 999.99 99 9799999999 9:“ 9.9 9 “99:? 9 999: 9‘9. 999199;:9991 99299,
999999199999, 99.13. 99939} 9999999999 99“ 999 9‘9: 991 999'? 99999.9 9.99 99 99999.9 9999-999. 999 919.9 9.91:“ :99
9999 33m. 9.: 99 99999999, 9999999 9.3. 99999 999999999 999 «a a -139 9299 9999999999 99" 999999.999 99:99 999991.919

. "" 9 9193 999. 9 99919991999999 999 999-9999999999 9999999919992999999 999 99999919,
99:19}. 99999 “9949 V

9:9... 99999999, 99999999 9:919.“ 329.999 9. £599“ 99 99:9 99999 99199993.}. 9.99 * 91.9““ , 99999919999999 3.999 39999:- 93: 9139
9999399999 9999 9.999 9.99. 999999993: 9999.; 9999:9999 9999999, 999999 999’ 9999 .2 999999 9.9.“ 999919.999:
999999 W99 991 99:99 991 99991 9999 9‘93? .9999... 999“ 999 9999. 9. 99999 .999 9 9.29.9999 999 9999999 99 9999:)“
3.2.9.999 9.99:. 99., 9999 9999999 99999 “99 9:99.99 99 99 9999 9:9 9999 9-99 99999 .9. 999999 9999999999 99193;. 999 999999
9999 999999 999:. 99... 9: ...-9 999 999. ,9 9199 99.9.99. 9‘99 999999 99999 9993. 999:; 39-99-9399 9999.9 999999; 99999999
99:99 999999 999999 “9999999 9.99999 99: ”99-9 19.9- 99999 9 9 9999.9. 99999-9999: 9999 9999995.... 9; 999999 9999 :29 99.9.9 99.9.9
9999 999999999. 9 999. -;.é‘919999 9.999 9.9999 9999999999 999919919 999999919 999999193 99999-9999! 9.99. 9999 991‘,
9r: 99999.99 999.99 9.9999 99:9 9999 -‘ '; 9 9999 9:9 9999 99999999 99991. 999999999 9999999999933.“ 999-99 9 9 9.9999999
999 99 9999999999 999 9999 999999, 9.9 99 9999999797999 99 199299 9.9.99.9 999:9 9999999 9:99 9999999991 :99. 9
“19999999399

99*. 993.99: 99999.9 99.99.9999 99“ 9999991 999999999 9999.999, .999 99:99:99,. 99999 3.9.9999: 999 one 99.99

9999999999 999999 99-93 .999 99.9, 9.99 99999 99 99.9.3.9: .999 999 9999 999.999.9999.. 999.999 9991.999: 9

99999999999999 9.999999, 9.9"} 99:9 9999999919, 99999999 999 9999.. 3599 93993 99299999 9 99993999 919“ “939%
999999.999 999999 999 .99 “9.99 99 9993:“ 99: 9.999999, . 99 .9. 9 999.99 .9999 in 99: 299999 9:999 9999 99 9399193
9991992 9999999: 9999.99: 9:99“ 99999799999199.1999 99 9:99:59 9 9.

9.9.9. .99“: 999,99 9999 9 99 9:999 999999999999 99 26 99999,. 999 999999 99999: 299999 :99 9919
3mm?- 93999 99999. 99999 99‘ 999399919 9‘99 99.99 ,9. 9999999999, 9999199999 13 99999 9.999 9999 91.991

9.993 399193.999 999999-99 in 919999.. 999 9.9 999 99999 99‘ 99999993. 9 99, 9991999 ”“999 912999 99‘

 

999999.999 999939 9 9.999 99999 9999.93! 9999‘“ .




Th5 353.551 Welfare In5333155, a national 55553335533531
3‘ 53133656 in 3.951, 50555 far “the promo 331521 53' laboratory 53115515,
3‘55 5335 5655331533 53‘ 3353335135 5153355351“, 5336 for 323215555 5373555330331
5.3? 51333.6. 533.. To advanae 3333.5 1553-; 5333 55333.55, nearly 15,000 free
555355 r6 “F6555.Aid 556.05r5 5f 6551365515515” have b55n 55nt
55 135353553: 35 3:35 3.933555, 555333; 1556555, 556 03.11555. 3315 1553313315535
35333353 5, 3: 5 3:35 Care 53‘ 35555133153: Ani355l5” 53.16 5503355535515
C311 553555 :3 53: :5 3:555351‘57‘ 33.113.35.515“ 3 55331; 53533553. charge to 553.513t3 5335
“53 5 5553553. 3.3553, are 3.5 555 in 151555555355 throughout 33335 333313353
832,53 55.37: 3333' 3.33 325333-615: 533355 0333.33.3m5-5. 31313.5 3,5555 3:115 3553133335
5155 55 55 555315515 35 35 R555 355 35 555 3553356.S M3.5 55
3“5 555533557 556 555555 3315, “35563155I.3 35“5t5ry'5535515”5 555»
63556 35 ij( bgi‘ﬁ556555n.F3155, 35 5555555 5355 with the “5335551
”"33 “53.2.55 51 3533551 51555555333 3.5356313?” A 5’1“”?‘333 333:: st: 363T 3352. 1“": :5?
5555535ti55tiuw 3f 3"3 555355 5555655 55655 55 515535555
“I5.:w55 wtxtr 5535555353. T55 3665.” t5 555135555 5
5f5 555 5355.655553. ’

January 15, 1957

 




> ,3..- 3:33 32: 3333 11333 33333-3

XE.

3333333333331“ 253. 3.9%?

$73. '-' "‘ M}. “,7
aﬂEEM?
.r. E ., ~' . E' . ." A?“ ~ 3.32.4:
33. LEE” EEEML. EEEWEEEEEEE
1:53: 3, . *3}: 3-3. "ti-{ﬂ . ‘3
E33; 3 3'; 3i ’5 3,... £333,333 1. (if :ﬂ‘ﬁﬁd 33 $3935:

W"

31.33333 3333; 3333313333: .33
3. 333. E3 3333
E3 3333 3:333“ 333 3333.333

’ 'E u 3%» Y, K") ' ' ‘- . J‘s; ».E-,“:5~ .‘v 21.3.- ft ‘ .m‘. 1 ' 4311 : ‘~
’EEEE-3 '31‘14 IE E 33333 I333 3:133. 3.3: EE ETEEE‘EEEEEEE 3373.333 .....:E E2.
do ‘ '. _ v . . M . . A _: ‘5”!
3 333333? E .13 ._ 33333 3333 E33 3333. ~..=~3E3 33333» 333E333. 3333 33
m

33333E33 319 3&3 £33 $3 $3 #35? ﬁkﬁE
“ E... 333333
3.33333. 3333 £333 3333:” 3313333 3333333333333 .1333. 333.3333. 3313 1:33:33;
33333 33.333 :33: labemmm 333333313 333 33233 3333333333 if 31333
33.33- 333 3333:} 33.333 33 ham 33333 3.33.3“. 33333-33333. 333 3333 33333333 E33
443333.33 333 33 .3. 33 E33 3313”]. it»

5.333333333333333.

{1E 13” 33 33.3 31%}
=333313333

 




ESTABLISHED 1888

BArclay 7-537!

PRESS CLIPPING BUREAU
I65 Church Street - New York

 

Kim H. Y.
was Hafi- ‘

a» , . _’ -. '.‘ -
L“. : 1...; f9; .
‘ '» ‘ .-_‘:I’ V. .

AA.

 

 

NO PLACE FOR CRUELTY

*)No one who accepts. the beneﬁts of

n'iodern medicine can in good conscience

object categorically to animal experimen-

tation. For much of what we know about -

the prevention and treatment of disease is!

the result of experiments on animals. 2
l

The other side of the coin is that need-
less experiments, and inhumanity in the
use of experimental animals, cannot be" con- :'
doned. mwnahsh have realized:
for many years, is the crux of the matter.

This is a touchy question. It is not made
any less so by the fact that there are ex—
tremists on both sides—those who advo-
cate animal experimentation Without limit,
and those who insist that there should be
none at all.

The former, in, their zeal to defend what- i
ever science chooses to do, sometimes for-5
get considerations of humanity and respect!

 

l

for life. Those at the other end of the spec— l
trum are inclined. to ignore the fact that;
animal experimentation has played a major'
role in relieving mankind’s burden of
agony. w

It would be ridiculous to attempt a fair
analysis of these opposing Views in this
space. It can be suggested, however, that
crueltyw—and, what is much more common, l
a certain callousness to animal pain—have(
no respectable place in the laboratory.
Kindness and a decent regard for the suf-
ferings of dumb animals are needed even in.)
the lofty world of science. .

u

)2

 

 




Animal'welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, I-Jew York

FOR IMIEDIATE RELEASE ALBERT SCHNEITZER MEDAL

' AWARDED TO AUTHOR PAUL
KEARNEY BY ANIMAL'WEL—
FARE INSTITUTE

 

NEN‘YORK - The 1957 Albert Schweitzer medal of the Animal Welfare In-

stitute, awarded annually in recognition of an outstanding contribution to the

welfare of laboratory animals, has been presented to Paul W. Kearney, neWSpaper—

man and freelance writer for his article "The Case For Humane Vivisection" ap-
pearing in the current issue of Coronet magazine.

The Animal'ﬁelfare Institute created the Albert Schweitzer medal in
lﬁSb at which time a gold replica was presented to Dr. Schweitzer. The Insti-
tute works for the welfare, humane treatment and correct housing of laboratory
animals. It Opposes unnecessary and cruel experimentation, as well as the
growing tendenqy toward painful and senseless exPeriments conducted on living
animals by school children.

In his Coronet article, Kearney reveals some of the shocking abuses
and haphazard experimentation conducted in the field of animal research. He
contends that there is today, virtually no limitation on what anyone with a
kitchen knife can do to an animal as long as he wraps it in the protective
cloak of scientific research. Kearney further deplores unrestrained animal
experimentation in high schools, and the approval of fatal feeding tests on

living animals fer students in the primary grades.

 




In.making the presentation to Mr. Kearney, Christine Stevens, Presi-
dent of the Animal’ielfare Institute stated that " 'The Case For Humane Vivi-
section' published in the new issue of Coronet is a most powerful blow in the

battle against anti-humane feroes. mr. Kearney has pricked the bubble of com~

placent adulation for the wrong kind of experimentation,she says,"and has re-

vealed the type of experimentation in which callousness, selfishness and ignor-

ance seek false justification under the guise of scientific research."

 




_.
m; V an; 1 2;}; f '~ ﬂ (:4 .73?
DNQQS ;@;)muuo

’ J“; E" :Y'
«"1 U L15} 03.8 I

-,.. r;

) ' ‘E T V
.. - Kw ,. ..
E ii.“ . Mr“: :3 ,~ 2 '

 




.1

i 7“ .71I-‘l

.
i
..
m
.V
.
a

.3!) :‘1’..s " ff:
Ukraw '2‘)“. k,

1:.

“x .

10‘

1
L

.. ,J
I

v
4.,m~

T3

 




Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

New York, N.Y. OctOber 8, 1958 -- Senator Hubert E. Humphrey,

sponsor of the first humane slaughter bill in Congress and leader

of the successful fight for its passage last July, will be awarded

the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute

here on OctOber 13. The presentation will be made at the annual

meeting of the Institute at the home of its President,

Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, next'Monday.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is awarded annually'by the Institute

to the person who has done most during the year to advance the

cause of animal welfare.

 




Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

FOR IMMEDIATE REIEASE

New York, N.Y. OctOber 8, 1958 -~ Senator Hubert H. Humphrey,

sponsor of the first humane slaughter bill in Congress and leader

of the successful fight for its passage last July, will be awarded

the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute

here on October 13. The presentation will be made at the annual

meeting of the Institute at the home of its President,

Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, next Monday.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is awarded annually by the Institute

to the person who has done most during the year to advance the

cause of animal welfare.

 




”imam

A (2! a
d L A '-
:._‘ ﬁg; Wm

’5 wxhw w 1‘
£23 7‘; g3; ft};

“v

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N.Y,

ORegon 5-1 069

FOR. IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

New York, N.Y. June 4, 1959, Representative W, R, Poage of Texas,

humanitarian and leader in the successful fight to secure enactment
of the federal humane slaughter law, will be awarded the 1959 Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute here on June 6. The
presentation will be made at the annual meeting of the Institute, at the

home of its President, Mrs, Roger L. Stevens, at 3 P.M. Saturday.

The Albert Schweitzer medal is awarded annually by the Institute
to the person who has done most during the year to advance the cause

of animal welfare.

 




,‘s ».
fly

and-tug type of foreign diplomat in Wash-
ington. Name: Mikhail Alekseevich Men-
shikov, ambassador of the U.S.S.R., who
has carried Dictator Khrushchev’s stop-
nuclear tests and let’s-have-a-parley-at-
the-summit propaganda to the U.S. pub-
lic Via TV press conferences, business-
men’s dinners and cultural wingdings with
such sincere style that he got the nick-
name of “Smiling Mike” (TIME, March

I7 et seq.). Sample exchange: Q. How , ”

can we trust you on stopping nuclear
tests when you violated the armistice in
Korea? A. I think we should believe each
other—~that is the only way.

Last month Menshikov was warned in
a nice way by Under Secretary of State
Robert Murphy, now busy with Middle
East matters, that he was speciﬁcally
violating diplomatic procedure by sending
Soviet propaganda to members of Con—
gress and key Government agencies, e.g.,
Vice President Nixon, Speaker of the
House Sam Rayburn, California Demo-
cratic Representative Jimmy Roosevelt,
without channeling it through the State
Department as required. Menshikov smil-
ingly promised to look into the matter,
did nothing. Last week the State Depart-
ment let it be known that the U.S.’s ﬁnal
recourse in such a matter might be to de-
clare such a diplomat persona non gram—-
almost like Citizen Genét.

As it happened, Ambassador Genét’s
fate was far from cruel. Things were so
rough and unpredictable back in revo-
lutionary France in I793 that Citizen
Genet, fearing death by guillotine, asked
Washington if he could stay on in the
U.S. as Private Citizen Genet. Washing-
ton’s response: OK. So Genet retired
quietly to New York State, there wed
the daughter of Governor De Witt Clin-
ton, let the Revolution go by as he lived
out his life with a big smile.

THE CONGRESS
Killing with Kindness

All things come to him who serves in
Congress, even responsibility for slaugh-
tering hogs and cattle. Climaxing three
years of hearings, debate and mountainous
mail, the Senate last week passed (72-9)
a bill condemning most U.S. packing-
houses’ slaughtering methods as cruel and
specifying “humane” techniques.

For the bill’s lobbyists, passage cli-
maxed an uphill ﬁght. Some 30 years ago,
U.S. humane societies were aghast to dis-
cover that a steer being led to slaughter
was ﬁrst stunned by a hammer blow
often ineffectively—then slashed across
the throat and allowed to bleed to death.
Hogs were shackled by a leg to overhead
conveyor belts, jabbed in their jugular
veins, sometimes dumped alive into scald-
ing water. The societies pressured meat
packers into joining a committee on hu-
mane slaughter that achieved some inno-
vations, e.g., some packinghouses began
using a captive bolt pistol, which ﬁres a
metal rod into the brain; George A. Hor-
mel & Co. installed carbon-dioxide rooms
where hogs were gassed before slaughter.
But most packinghouses continued old

‘ Tommy Weber
CHRISTINE STEVENS
It shouldn't happen to a hog.

methods. Angrily, the humane societies
took the issue to Congress, early this
year got a bill through the House.

As the bill came up for Senate hearings,
the meat-packing lobby warned that new
techniques would mean higher meat pric-
es and the Department of Agriculture
criticized the law as fuzzy and hard to
police. Although the bill exempted kosher
slaughter, Orthodox Jews opposed it as
interference with shehitah, the ritual for
killing kosher animals. The humane so-
cieties rebutted other arguments by point-
ing out that such countries as Switzerland,
The Netherlands and England administer
similar laws, predicted that rather than
raising prices, new techniques would help

packers recover $50 million in meat lost

a year through careless slaughter.'

Said an Agriculture Department ofﬁcial,
throwing up his hands: “You can’t be for
sin, and that’s what they make it out.”
Making it out best was Christine Stevens,
president of Manhattan’s Animal Welfare
Institute and secretary-treasurer of the
hard-lobbying Society for Animal Protec-
tive Legislation, and the humane socie-
ties’ most effective spokesman. Trim, grey-
ing Christine Stevens, 40, badgered Con—
gressmen, testiﬁed at hearings, used some
of her own money (Husband Roger Ste-
vens produced Broadway’s Cat on a Hot
Tin Roof and Time Remembered, once
headed a syndicate that owned the Empire
State Building) to crank out publicity.

Christine Stevens wore down the oppo-
sition. The bill sailed through both houses,
is in line for quick conference action and
presidential signature. The Agriculture
Department will enforce it. And packers
probably will fall into line. Although the
measure contains no noncompliance pen-
alties, packers who hammer cattle and
hoist conscious pigs are ineligible to bid
on Government contracts. And the U.S.,
purchasing $2 50 million worth of meat a
year, is too big a customer to lose.

TIME, AUGUST 11, 1958

 




VIVISECTION

by Paul W. Kearney

FEW SUBJECTS generate more heat
and less light than “vivisection,” or
animal experimentation. Because the
sad fact is that the advocates of un-
restricted scientiﬁc research can
grow as hysterical as the most ardent
anti-vivisectionists.

This is deplorable to a neutral ob-
server who can calmly consider: 1)
The great beneﬁts derived from in-
telligent animal experimentation.
2) The distressing abuses committed
in the name of scientiﬁc research.

Unfortunately, it is too easy for
those who applaud the ﬁrst to dis-
miss, as crackpots, those who abhor
the second.

It is undeniable that if “the price

Reprinted from November 1957 issue of CORONET

of the iron lung was 24 cats, or the
cost of Insulin was 33 dogs,” we got
a rare bargain. On the other hand,
one is entitled to question the neces-
sity for a Boston laboratory, while
studying the causes of human deaths
by ﬁre—to burn live pigs to death in
gasoline ﬂames. And to wonder if
the researchers would have learned
any less if the animals had been an-
esthetized. It was in criticism of four
other equally inexplicable examples
of cruel animal research that the
late Professor Robert Gesell, chair-
man of the Department of Physi-
ology at the University of Michigan,
who had performed animal experi-
ments and taught the techniques for

Copyright 1957 by ESQUIRE, Inc.

 




 

years, said: “These ominous experi-
ments make us search our souls and
wonder what the future has in store
for us.”

One is entitled to question, too,
the needless suffering caused living
creatures in haphazard and unéuper—
vised experiments by students in
high and even grade schools, espe-
cially when those experiments prove
nothing which has not already been
proved.

The British medical journal, the
Lancet, takes a dim view of such un-
inhibited experimentation, stating
that in Great Britain laboratory ex-
periments on animals are regarded
as an unpleasant necessity. The prac-
tice is accepted because so much
good has come of it; but for a cen-
tury legislation has insured that it
be used as sparingly as possible, kept
in the hands of those believed to be
humane and reponsible, and safe-
guarded by legal restrictions from
abuse.

FROM THE HUMANE standpoint
alone, you realize the enormity of
this problem when you consider the
huge volume of experimental ani-
mals now in use. There is no na-
tional census available, but a typical
large research laboratory will use
annually around 80,000 chickens,
1,000 dogs, 1,000 rabbits, 500 cats,
40,000 rats, 500 pigs, 5,000 guinea
pigs, 280,000 mice.

I have personally visited quite a
few such laboratories in various
parts of the country. And in many of
them conditions were abominable,
as these notes made on the spot will
testify:

At a Boston hospital: stench over-

powering; sick and well dogs
crowded together; mange and dis-
temper evident; dogs too sick to

cmove lying on wet concrete ﬂoors.

At a New England medical
school: no exercise, although out-
door runways are available. Dis-
temper a serious problem. Bad odor;
quarters not good. As many as nine
experimental operations performed
per dog.

At a New York medical school:
dead dogs left lying in cages where
they died; live dogs in cages soaking
wet from floor cleaned with hose;
metal mesh ﬂoors in cages with no
reSting boards; small animals in
cramped quarters with barely
enough room to turn around.

In another hospital, where an ef-
fort is being made to rectify matters,
dogs recently subjected to drastic
surgical experiments, and too sick
to stand up, sprawled on wet cement
ﬂoors which were encrusted with ex-
crement and dirt. On the door was
tacked a copy of the American Med-~
ical Association’s Code governing

the handling of animals in labora—

tories.

I can give a dozen more ex-
amples, but these cases should be
sufﬁcient to raise two rather perti-
nent questions:

1. Can scientists who tolerate
such shameful conditions in their
laboratory-animals’ quarters be
truly called humane?

2. If they are unaware of such
conditions, are they really ﬁt for re-
search work?

Dr. Gesell put it this way in a
heated exchange with the National
Society for Medical Research, the
public relations arm of the AMA

 




 

The application is checked by a
medical board appointed by the
Crown.

Furthermore, inspectors from the
Home Office have the authority to
visit, unannounced, any research
establishment at any time—and to
bring any violator into court, where
conviction may result in a stiff ﬁne.
Jail sentences, plus loss of license to
practice, face repeaters.

The guiding light in the British
approach to animal experimentation
is the factor called “the pain con-
ditions.” The firstprinciple isvthat
pain must never be needless: if for
any reason pain is unavoidable, it
must be minimized to the absolute
limit.

For example, one clause of the
Act speciﬁes that in no case may an
experimenter permit suffering which
is both severe and likely to endure,
whether or not the main object of
the experiment has been attained.
And when the main object has been
attained, neither brief severe suffer-
ing nor prolonged mild suffering
may be permitted.

Thus in any operation—which
means not only surgery, but such
things as bruising, crushing, burn-
ing, explosion, electric shock, cor-
rosive poisons, or stress, the animal
must be completely anesthetized by
someone who is responsible for see-
ing that the subject does not pre-
maturely regain consciousness. If
any serious injury is caused by the
operation, the animal must be pain—
lessly destroyed before recovery from
the anesthetic.

In contrast to practice in this
country, no painful experiment may
be made in England to demonstrate

something already proven; no ex-
periments may be made on living
animals merely to perfect manual
skill or to satisfy pure curiosity. And,
regardless of his technical standing,
no researcher with a reputation for
callousness, indifference or careless-
ness can obtain a permit to experi-
ment on any vertebrate animal.

It will be contended that all of
these criteria apply in this country
without benefit of mandatory legis-
lation. But this is far from the truth.

Last winter, for instance, I visited
a southern medical school which has
earned a commendable reputation
for keeping its experimental work
humane. Yet, even here, a visiting
surgeon was working on an anesthe-
tized dog which he had opened up
from throat to pelvis. Suddenly an
unexpected development transpired
in the test, which was of major im-
portance to the experiment but
which required library checking. So,
hastily and haphazardly sewing up
the dog, the researcher rushed to his
books. Some time later a volunteer
humane worker came in to ﬁnd the
animal fully conscious and in agony,
still strapped to the operating table.

It is not to be implied that prog-
ress is not being made in this coun-
try, through the voluntary efforts
of our more enlightened medical
men, and through the missionary
work of the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute of New York. Yet it'is signiﬁ-
cant that this organization—num—
bering among its charter members
such eminent scientists as Dr. Gesell;
Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director of the In-
stitute of Human Biology; and Dr.
Peter Okkelberg, zoologiSt and as-
sistant dean of the Horace Rankin

 




 

charged with combatting anti—vivi-
sectionists :

“The National Society for Med-
ical Research would have us believe
that there is an important issue in
vivisection versus anti-vivisection.
To a physiologist there can be no is-
sue on vivisection per se. The real
and urgent issue is Humanity versus
Inhumanity in the use of experi-
mental animals. . . .”

This might be put down as the
personal bias'of one man were it not
for the fact that I have had a dozen
reputable physicians conﬁrm it pri-
vately. And among them there is a
very lively conviction that far too
many animal experiments are con-
ducted for the prestige of the re-
searcher rather than the beneﬁts
to society.

Unquestionably, too, some are un-
dertaken for baser motives. A classic
example was the notorious series of
experiments carried on for six years
by research institutions to prove—
and disprove—the theory that to-
bacco containing glycol caused less
damage to tissue than that contain-
ing glycerin. Scores of' technicians
under the direction of 12 eminent
Doctors of Medicine were involved
in the experiment.

One of the many tests employed
was to blow continuous streams of
tobacco smoke against rabbits’ eye-
balls to ascertain how much, or how
little, damage results. In another
experiment, smoke was pumped
through the nostrils of dogs until a
more diligent researcher came up
with the idea of cutting incisions in
rabbits’ tracheas so that smoke
could be pumped directly into the
lungs. Yet only one physician admits

 

to having anesthetized the animals
he used. (All of this came out during
exhaustive hearings held in Wash-
ington by the Federal Trade Com-
mission.)

Such questionable behavior for
purely commercial purposes is dis-
turbing enough. But now we are
faced with the rapid spread of an-
other distressing development: the
encouragement of unrestrained ani-
mal experimentation by high school
students; and the ofﬁcial (both med-
ical and pedagogical) approval of
fatal feeding tests on living animals
for the ediﬁcation of children in
primary grades.

Today, from coast to coast, class-
rooms from the third grade up are
displaying cages of white rats, ham-
sters or guinea pigs—which are be-
ing slowly starved to death on a
vitamin-deﬁcient diet while control
subjects are fed a balanced ration to
dramatize the distinction.

The National Cancer Institute
provides detailed instructions for a
variety of demonstration-experi-
ments for school use in which can-
cers are implanted in healthy mice
so the children can watch them die
over a period of three weeks. One of
the experiments involved skin graft-
ing—by amateurs! At Port Washing-
ton, New York, high school students
are performing these cancer trans-
plants on living animals.

This wholesale employment of
animals for classroom work is a gross
violation of the accepted principle
that a minimum number of animals
(in painful experiments) be used to
accomplish the purpose.

As a result of all this we now see,
with increasing regularity, such




newspaper headings as this from the
New York World-Telegram {‘9’ Sun
of February 1, 1956:

GIRL CUTS ANIMALS

INTO TALENT MELON

Beneath is the story of a 15-year-
old girl who won an award for scien-
tiﬁc talent. The true scientiﬁc sig-
niﬁcance of her efforts is summed up
in the sentence: “She found the
study ‘very interesting,’ but said she
did not care to delve further into it.
She wants to study engineering
physics. . .”

In Atlanta, Georgia, a 17-year-
old student won an entry to the Na-
tional Science Fair by putting black
widow spiders in the deep-freezer,
then injecting the venom from the
spiders’ fangs into mice. “I watched
the mice closely,” the Atlanta [our-
nal and Constitution of June 24,
1956, quotes him, “and I observed
all the symptoms of black widow poi-
soning as the mice died.”

In Utica, New York, a 19-year-
old student won a science prize for
radiation experiments on nearly 300
animals in his cellar laboratory “at-
tracting many neighborhood chil-
dren who came to watch.” With
tons of literature on the subject in
the Atomic Energy Commission ﬁles,
it seems inane to have a boy stum-
bling over the same ground when
the needless suffering of living crea-
tures is at stake.

The basic point is that none of
these amateur experiments has the
least scientiﬁc value beyond the sat-
isfaction of a morbid curiosity. Fur-
thermore, competent psychologists
might be able to tell us quite a bit
about the effect of this incipient
sadism on the minds of juveniles.

There is no valid scientiﬁc justi~
ﬁcation for such haphazard experi-
ments on living animals—especially
by amateurs—which cannot pos-
sibly provide knowledge we do not
already have. And if the. lessons of
the nutrition tests are considered
signiﬁcant enough to warrant visual
presentation, which is debatable, this
can be. done by photographs, slides
or motion pictures. Thus the demon-
stration could be made once and for
all on a few animals, and not need-
lessly repeated over and over again
on thousands.

SUCH OUTLANDISH practices sim-_
ply emphasize the extent to which
we Americans have blindly turned
“scientiﬁc research” into a fetish,
with the result that there is today
virtually no limitation on what any
Tom, Dick or Harry with a kitchen
knife can do to an animal so long as
he wraps it in the protective cloak of
“scientiﬁc research.”

Such. practices, amateur or pro-
fessional, would not be tolerated in
Great Britain, unquestionably the
most enlightened spot on the world
map of animal experimentation.
And it has been since the passage in
1876 of its famous Cruelty to Ani-
mals Act, which has provided British
medical science with its enviable
record of both humaneness and
achievement.

Brieﬂy, the Act gives the Home
Secretary power to grant or with-
hold license for the employment of
animals in experimental research.
Thus, if a scientist wishes to conduct
an experiment on a living animal he
states the purpose and nature of the
experiment, and his qualiﬁcations.

 




 

School of Graduate Studies—is reg-
ularly attacked by the extremists
on both sides.

The more progressive researchers
are also making great strides in the
development of materials which
supplant living animals for an in-
creasing number of investigations.
Lederle Laboratories’ pioneering in
the use of chick embryos in the
manufacture of their rabies vaccine
is a notable case in point. So also is
the use of embryonated eggs for the
control of cancer growth which was
reported last year by two Univer-
sity of ,Texas scientists.

The substitution of lower forms of
animal life is also an encouraging
trend; the satisfactory use of beetles
(in lieu of rats) at Rutgers; the em-
ployment of frogs (instead of rab-
bits) in U.S. Navy research work.

Generally speaking, however,

such voluntary policing as is repre-
sented by the AMA Code for experi-
mental laboratories doesn’t work.
Nor do such gestures as inviting “in—
spections” by local Board of Health
doctors.

I know of one case in New York

City where a humane worker re-
ceived permission to accompany one
of these inspectors on his rounds
through the laboratories of a large
institution. While point'ng out how
ideal conditions were, the inspector
walked right past a dog whose in-
cision had come open and whose
entrails were hanging out.

Not until the humane worker
protested vigorously did the inspec-
tor report the condition and only
then was something finally done
aboutit

My purpose here is not to present
a ready-made solution, but to draw
the attention of open-minded peo-
ple, both lay and professional, to the
very real and urgent issue of Hu—
manity versus Inhumanity in the
use of animals for experimental pur-
poses. Such recognition must come
before any rational corrective mea-
sures c'an‘ be'considered. And in
the absence of that recognition, no
such measures have been proposed
by either the numerous Anti-Vivi-
section Societies, or by their oppo-
site number, the National Society
for Medical Research.

Printed in U.S.A.

 




3 Geheber 22, 1953

hr. 1. (1.. meme}.

The hhiher

The hehienal Week lug heeehim
111.. 1 v

E31311!" mama

Ashley :11 yew epring heeee has been ee11ee he my ehheehiee in ehieh
the 111111 heefere Inehihhhe 1e eeehiehed in e 1ehher he hhe Fdiher. he»
ferhu ehe1y3, hhemfermehiee he neh eereeeh. Ih ehehee: ”h greet heel hf
eeehr 1 heeeh exeereieeh ever hedieel er eeiehtifie experimehe melvihg
hm . hf 3.1m . "heeh hf heie centre]. 111- the result e1 hhe efferhe
of 51111 Animal helfere Inehhhehe, hhe, reeeehieine the he feehe ehehue e1
' enime1 experihehhe, eeh eheeh Wheezing hheee experihehhe ueher thewmieh.

wheel «new heehe end the mealtime under Which emerihenhel mihele

ere hehh eeghh he meeh reeennehle hueeee ehenderhe, huh inhiveduel mehihuhiene

end inhivehue}. deperhheete Within them very eeermeuely in the degree or hee-
e‘ihemhhee eeeerheh eeper entail eemele. There ere he everen hheene ehehherh‘e
whether. hany eeieele heifer heeleeely. Celleueeeee end neglect. ere eeeheen. .
her yew mferhehiem I he eneleeieg eh erhiele which eppeereh 1n Gormeh
heeeeihe eh wheel eXpermehehien. The informehmh ih eeeheine ie eeeerehe.
else eeeleeed ere whe eh her 11111111111112.1912 heperhe hiring ehher eeeurehe ina—
i‘ermehiee he h‘he .. eehjeeh.

The heme]. welfare Inehehuhe deee heh eeeh he eeh1ew mime}. emer‘imehehun. '
Ih pahliehee 111uehreheh hehuele her use by eeiehh1ehe enh wheel caretakers.
and bee diatrihuheh then 10300. eepiee e1' hheee meeeihe free he eeiehhiehe
hhe have requeeheh thee. he heel": he eerh 1111-111 eeieehihhe whenever peeeihle he
impreve mealtime fer labereheey ee1hele. heeemr, he nah eeek he whiteweeh
the leree meet er j__-eeeeeery ereelhy which ehiehe in lehereheriee. In her
nheereehiee there is me him that hhie creelhy 1e heereeeing.

gingerﬁly',

'ereeeeene

: Blind copy ’06: Mr. Harry Miller, Direcher Gaines Dog Research Center
' ' 250 Park Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.

.31"
9‘

Miss Ruhh Stewart, BOX 296 Greensbu'rg, Pa. / 3;, .1»

 




  
 
    
   

 

  

WE NEED LOTS OF
SHORT BUT NEWSY
L E T T E R S !

 

     
       
       
     
      
   
     
   
   
   
         
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
     
   
 

are lots of dogs in this country that
will scent blood or worms on a cow
and bay it. I thought it was a little
unusual in this case because I had
never used these two dogs to bay cat-
tle. I had always used them to drive “
or pen a whole bunch. Best wishes,
Terry Sanders.

A LETTER — AND ANSWER

Mar. 10, 1958

Gaines Dog Research Center, \\
250 Park Ave., New York 17, N, Y. K
Att: Harry Miller, Director.
Dear Mr. Miller:

I am enclosing some circulars which
I have received from various well
meaning friends, from time to time.
These depict horrible and extreme
cruelties to which cats and. dogs are
supposedly subjected, as a means of
conducting SCIENTIFIC and MEDI-
CAL EXPERIMENTS. Will you in—
form me as to whether or not such ~
conditions do exist today? If they‘
do, it’s high time that we arouse our
law-makers and put a stop to it. _

Sincerely — E. G. Emanuel, Editor. :9

 

\

March 14, 1958. 3'"

Mr. E. G. Emanuel, Editor,
The National Stock Dog Magazine,
Rt. 1, Butler, Indiana.
Dear Mr. Emanuel:

Thank you for your letter of Mar. 10.
The pamphlets and circulars which
you have enclosed have, of course,
been circulating for a number of
years. The conditions and treatment
of experimental animals as depicted
in these circular letters perhaps did
exist 13 or 15 years ago. However,
as far as we are aware, they no longer
are true. A great deal of control is\
now exercised over medical or scien-
tific experiments involving the use of 4;
live animals. Much of this control is
the result of the efforts of the Animal
Welfare Institute, who, recognizing 3-“
the de facto status of animal experi- »
ments, set about bringing those ex-
periments under supervision. Along
with this movement by animal groups
was the recognition by the medical
profession, itself, that useless or rep~
etitive experiments, as well as inhu-
mane treatment, had no place or val-
ue in a truly scientific program. It . i
is suggested that you write to Dr. Sol ‘<“
, ‘ Mi haelson, D. V. M., Chief, Radiation 3
' Th, rapy Section, University of R03,
1‘ ch‘ ter School of Medicine, Rochester, “I, .

 

 
 
  

N. Y., for a copy of his thorough re-
port'on the use of the dog in medical
research. In this report, Dr. Michael—
son brings out the r asons for using
the, dog, how the medical profession
policies the experiments and. how it
welcomes inspection by interested
groups or individuals. Trusting that
the above will be of some help and
consolation, with all good wishes,
Sincerely yours,
Harry Miller, Director.




FEBRUARY I3. I958

Suffering Seals

To the N. Y. Herald Tribune:

The whales, the seals, and the
birds of the sea are seldom
thought of in connection with
the prevention of cruelty to
animals. Yet they suffer very
cruel and long — drawn - out
deaths through human agency.

Sealing in Alaska is reported
to be humanely conducted and
carefully controlled, but in some
other parts of the world in-
discriminate shooting which
wounds without killing a great
proportion of the seals leads to
great suffering; reports from
the whaling grounds indicate
that baby seals ineffectively
clubbed are sometimes skinned
alive while the mothers struggle
to protect them.

The oil slicks on the ocean
caused by careless shippers
cause many thousands of sea
birds to die a lingering death
of exposure and starvation after
their feathers become soaked in
oil.

These cruelties must be
stopped. A helpful step in this
direction would be the inclusion
in the proposed United Nations
Law of the Sea of two brief.
humane amendments:

1. Humane methods of catch—
ing and killing the living crea-
tures of the sea must be used
whenever such methods are de— .
veloped to a practical state.

2. The Secretary-General of
the U. N. shall appoint a com-
mission of three or more mem-
bers which shall determine
what methods are humane and
practical.

It is hoped that these or sim-
ilar amendments will be ap-
proved at the International
Plenipotentiary Conference on
the Law of the Sea to be held
at Geneva later this month.

CHRISTINE STEVENS,

* Council. Member,
World Federation for the
Protection of Animals.

New York.

 




 

1 SUPPLY c0-

- ‘ 1936
p , Supp'u’s Smce
Am ' :00 8:272}?r 9 Oak Park, ”"

MAnsﬂeld 6-3457

PIONEE‘SUF"

c I(
301 Lake 5"]
Telephone

  

 

Be sure to notice the

CataIOQ Supplement which No. 3 FEBRUARY, |959
accompanies this issue.

 

 
    

BIG,_NEW,VSENSATIONAL LINE

I
EOOEPIb great News; (For you, too!) we have been awarded the exclusive and national
Misdrinu ion of EVE-FRESH SEED. This is vacuum packed IN CANS. It means top quality
be: s as fresh as the harvest.” Kept fresh until.used and clean wholesome seed with
a their vitamins and natural oils sealed in. The birds (parakeets and canaries) go
for this fresh seed -— and so will your customers.

 

 

$8 you know, cans stack easily on a shelf and won‘t tip over at the slightest impact.
ngiagon t crush ea31ly and spill. Therefore you save money by not having damaged
es. .

A beverage can opener is all that is required for one to ”punch and pour."

Already there is available a number of EVE—FRESH products (see supplement attached) and
more are being added in the same distinctive style of package to have family resemblance
and to give your shelves a modern look. The complete line, which will include gravel
paper, perch covers, goldfish and turtle food and other essential items will be available
in the near future. You will be kept informed.

EYRTFRESH.seed-Will be promoted by co—operative advertising, trade and consumer adver-
t181n8{ Window and store displays, signs, etc. Plans are now in the making. Be the
first in your area to offer this vacuum packed (CANNED) Seed line! Ask us for details!

This:means that Pioneer can offer you the two top quality lines of bird products being
offered today -- GEISLER'S and EVE-FRESH: "
. *****
All the animals had left the ark except two snakes lying over in a corner. Noah asked
Eggm: :Why don't you.go forth and.multiply?" "we can‘t," replied one of them, "we‘re
ers.
SPRING IS ON THE WING!

Get ready for Spring and Summer selling. Advance suggestions: raincoats, boots, tie-
out stakes, training devices, repellents and other outdoor items, play toys, and for
vacationists S;;:igg pets with them): fibre pet carriers, beds, Uniyersal week-end

feeders , etc , / / / ,7 f / ‘ 4 \7
441(73/ ’ /ﬂ’%w ﬂ‘f/C//*{ C/ .4g’C/éééc é/C:

OUR HAT IS OFF to the Anim€§(Nelfare Institute, 22 E. 17th, New York 3, New York for
advocating the proper housing of laboratory animals. Thanks to them, animals are
receiving more humane treatment -- proper heat, food, comfortable quarters and care.

     
   

 

AND OUR COAT IS OFF AND OUR FISTS ARE CLINCHEQ to fight the two hunters who call them-
selves "Sportsmen." NearfPreston,.Minn., either of them killed a three legged pet deer
despite a farm family's tearful pleas for mercy. They wanted to be able to say they had
killed a deer on the first day of the season. The judge fined the killer only $100.
They got off easy.

CAPITALIZE ON FRIDAY, the 13th

In both February and.March there is a Friday, 13th. How about a promotion with an
appropriate window display of Black Cat Specials? Anyone owning a black cat would be
entitled to a special discount on all cat items. The producerswof CAT COMFORT ("The

Best of the Litter”) make it possible forwyou to allow 25% off on their fine product

for that day only. You will be reimbursed with free goods. A,good.merchandising stunt --
worthy of newspaper advertising and publicity. Tell it to your newspaper. Let it take

icture of your ”Black Cat —- Friday, the 13th” Window Display.
*****

é ' (SEE NEXT PAGE)

 

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3. N.Y.

ORegon 5-1069

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

New York, N.Y. June 4. 1959. Representative W. R, Poage of Texas,
humanitarian and leader in the successful fight to secure enactment
of the federal humane slaughter law, will be awarded the 1959 Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute here on June 6. The
presentation will be made at the annual meeting of the Institute, at the

home of its President, Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, at 3 P.M. Saturday.

The Albert Schweitzer medal is awarded annually by the Institute
to the person who has done most during the year to advance the cause

of animal welfa re.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N,Y.

ORegon 5-1069

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

New York, N.Y. June 4. 1959. Representative W. R, Poage of Texas,
humanitarian and leader in the successful fight to secure enactment
of the federal humane slaughter law, will be awarded the 1959 Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute here on June 6. The
presentation will be made at the annual meeting of the Institute, at the

home of its President, Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, at 3 P.Mr. Saturday.

The Albert Schweitzer medal is awarded annually by the Institute

to the person who has done most during the year to advance the cause

of animal welfare.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N,Y.

ORegon 5-1069

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

New York, N.Y. June 4, 1959. Representative W. R, Poage of Texas,
humanitarian and leader in the successful fight to secure enactment
of the federal humane slaughter law, will be awarded the 1959 Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute here on June 6. The
presentation will be made at the annual meeting of the Institute, at the

home of its President, Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, at 3 P.M. Saturday.

The Albert Schweitzer medal is awarded annually by the Institute

to the person who has done most during the year to advance the cause

of animal welfare.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N.Y.

ORegon 5-1069

FOR IMMEDIATE_ RELEASE

 

 

New York, N.Y. June 4, 1959. Representative W. R. Poage of Texas,
humanitarian and leader in the successful fight to secure enactment
of the federal humane slaughter law, will be awarded the 1959 Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute here on June 6. The

presentation will be made at the annual meeting of the Institute, at the

home of its President, Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, at 3 P.M. Saturday.

The Albert Schweitzer medal is awarded annually by the Institute
to the person who has done most during the year to advance the cause

of animal welfare.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22' East 17th Street
New York 3. N.Y.

ORegon 5—1069

FOR IMMEQIATE RELEASE

 

New York, N.Y. June 4. 1959. Representative W. R, Poage of Texas,
humanitarian and leader in the successful fight to secure enactment

of the federal humane slaughter law, will be awarded the 1959 Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute here on June 6. The
presentation will be made at the annual meeting of the Institute, at the

home of its President, Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, at 3 P.M. Saturday.

The Albert Schweitzer medal is awarded annually by the Institute

to the person who has done most during the year to advance the cause

of animal welfa re.

 




       
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
   

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N.Y.

ORegon 5-1069
EOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

New York, N.Y. June 4. 1959. Representative W. R. Poage of Texas,
humanitarian and leader in the successful fight to secure enactment
of the federal humane slaughter law, will be awarded the 1959 Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute here on June 6. The
presentation will be made at the annual meeting of the Institute, at the

home of its President, Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, at 3 P,M. Saturday.

The Albert Schweitzer medal is awarded annually by the Institute

 

to the person who has done most during the year to advance the cause

of animal welfare.




8833‘be 20, 1961

‘Eisa’ﬁmréthy Bradforﬁ c/GEPet Life”
333 Laimart Eaulevard
93333333 Salifmrnia

3151:9329] 393$ WEE :Efm «E‘ég

Em 33E EEa33 igaua Qf “Eat 333E” I have just read with interEgt
yum? ErEEE’aE biﬂlﬁ PQFCEFEER3 thE S3333n Saciaty 3f America, and it
EEEEEEEE EE EE EEEE 3E“ ElwaE ELEE Eu lEM W PEE3Ers kﬂQW something
93E E.E war {af our Erganizat 322 3339. E ﬁigrefara 6201633 a_br3E£
{1393112310 '0 n 3731? 3'31ﬂ13181Q aﬂiﬁ 33.9133», E331 5.7:: u :gfkk Will :33 $3123.53 ~36 133$ iv? 1 am
a33a WHE30$3mg sur 3633 33 In QIFWLE 1‘7: RE;9E3 aﬂw Annuai PE‘g art, 33
EE11 ”E 3 liEﬁing 03 WEE‘ 6933 2: WE¢31&wiu £33m 333 Justituaia

33 Ema E0313 3339 $1713 IEI'E'IE33 infcrmaiiam eancara.3: an?
if H

,mEE WE m? E shauld be hw§f 33 3993 ragmesi.

E33h QEEE Elaﬁﬁﬁ, 3 33

3338333 EEaper
EXEWEEEEE ﬁeeraEgry

 




 

The Aaima1.walfara Enstitata, a manwgrwfit naﬁianai mrganimaﬁiwn faumﬁaﬂ
in 1951 kw yram¢$e tha walfara mi all aﬁimmls, is partiﬂularly imtargate§.in
rmdmning the ﬂuffaring and imprevimg thﬁ aara, hausiug and tra&%mmntlaf animala
uaa§.in gaparimamtal laberataria3. Thraugh visita ta 1aﬁwraﬁariaa thraughemt
tha agnntry, memglaiata abaut hhm mﬂay ahamaful a§mama,whaarvad 1a the w@uwaa ﬁf
auah viaitag ana mffaring cf’practiaal advice an haw he aarraat thaw, ﬁns
Inaﬁiﬁnta mwrka ﬂiractly wiﬁh aciamtiaﬁs. it previdas ta aeianﬁimﬁa, apmn :mQﬁasE
anﬁ frae a? charga, tau cemprahanaiwa illaatraﬁaﬂ‘mammala‘antitlad ”ﬂamfmrtabla
Quart@ra fwr Laharatary Aaimala” andﬁﬁaaia Sara of Esparimmntal.gnimala".

Qha Inﬁtiﬁuta favara tha enactmaataf natianal lagialatiaa ﬂimilar $9 ﬁha
Briﬁiﬁh Aaﬁ 0f $376 far tha prateatiwn af laﬁsratary amimala. It aapgﬁrta E,ﬁa
1937) may panéimg befarw Gengraaa; whidh praviﬁaa far tha hamana ﬁxaatmﬁnh ax
laberaﬁery animmlg uaad 13 raaearch inatituﬁians rﬁcaiving Fadﬁral granta and in
éapartmwntﬁ and agamcias at tha Fadargl.3mwernmemt.

fa hslp yrﬁvamt aruai axperimamta by achaal abildrgn and yauﬁhag ﬁha
Instituta publishea twa ether illuatrataé manuals ”Firat Ai& amé gara a3 S$all
ﬁnimnla” and ”Hamane Eielagy Projacta”; tﬁasg ara diatribataé fraa upan raqaaaﬁ
to teaahara and athara in tha eduaaﬁinnal field.

Tﬁa Inabi$mte ainee 19?} haa gwardad ammanllg the Albert ﬁchweiﬁzar ﬁaéal
in reaegnition mi mutatandiag hmaana aahievamamta. The award far l9é6 wag maﬁa
t6 tam humanitariama in Africa: Chiaf &. S. Fundikira andlﬁra. Ia&h@1 ﬁlatar,
Frasidanﬁ and.$xacutiva ﬁiraatar raapaetivaly a? the ﬁayal S®¢iauy far Fravantiaa
a? ﬂrualty ta Animals, ?anganyika Bivisian, ahimh hag aypraximataxy hﬁ,0®$ &£riaan

mambar3, with naarly 800 hranuh@a and amallar eantara thramghmut tha camntny¢ It

 

warks aetively $0 gratect baﬁh wild and aammatie animala tram mraelty ama.m@a§1$aa
daatrueﬁiam.

Th3 Ingti$uta alga davataa iﬁs gffsrta ta halping animama ugaa.far famﬁ ana
far; 1% £33 ﬁative 1a aaaurinﬁ paﬁgaga af tha Fedural ﬁnmmna ﬁaaughter"gat af 1958

and is umrkxng with ather hummnitarians in the intaraat af aura humana matheda 9f

 




trfa'pgxmgw

33333 93‘ ' V. ‘3‘3’3w W "9.3sz 432“”: v 3‘ -- ‘
“33d“ 4mg .. .33 Eaﬂ333m-3 Eiuaﬁﬂ {Ear 3333333333: 333 33§33133333333
31332 V f 3.3.1325 3': 3 £32.?“ a “3 q , ﬂ . . g. ’ l
33 ~ 333: 33333333 333 333 '~3, @113 333333333, 333 333 3-33331ng

33333 3E 33“ H- 3: 3

- 3:3”133 «.5 .,_v 3.1 .4:- ,3 .3 ws ‘ .
3 ~3 13: an .3331 3333 Em $333353. m3 3a 333 3333g*m$re

O

.: 3:333 (’3 73533333213313 3'3 33

.a an. ~33»: -E‘ " :3 "-3" ‘ 4:)- ‘EA 3 73 A V 3 3
2.431;». $33343 .1 :33? 3.325 3% 3333333 33.3333 333:3 33 3131333333"
3.333 3 v3 3

. ;
:31.» ~02! ,M . .

1'

”MA A...‘.~A.,—« ..__-... ._...,‘ _ ﬂ‘ <M_/___,_._

t Au-Ji‘.__s_ 9—4dn‘4‘m_..._ .

 




HI" Audra»: Sex-aka
'HNTAwTV

1021 Braad Street
Rawark, New Jarsay

Dear Hr. ﬁaroka:

I watchad ”At Ehur Beck and Call” with much interest and anjcyment an
?riday night, and.I greatly appraciate the oypartunity ta tall 0f the wark
baing dune to prevant needless snffaring 0f laboratary animalg.

‘You adkad far a ﬂaw notas on tha Animal Wélfara inatituta. It waa
feundad in 1951. Eta atma: ”Ta pramate tha‘walfara of all animals. TE raw
dnce tha total 9f pain and faar inflicted on animala 3; man‘" It is a non«
profit, charitabla, adncaticnal arganizatian and has distributea fraa an re»
quest to sehanl taachars Wang of thauaanda ef,1arga illustrated manuala for
humans educatian. The game baa Egan dame for scientiata'with.raapect to ﬁha
prayer cara and hanging of labaratory animala. 'A biwmmnthly Informatien
‘Report is digtrihuted Vidaly ta libraries, humana organigations, axparimantal
bialugiata and ethera, ovar ten thausand cepiaa in each issua go to all paraa
of the Unitad States and numarams foraign cauhtriaa. Our mannalﬂﬂaaia Cara
of ,.iarimanta1 Animals”haa baan tranalated and publiahed in twm faraign
languagaa. The Animal Walfara Instituta annually awarda tha Albart Schweitzer
Medal in reccgnition 0f outatanding hihwﬁa achievemant, the firet meéal
atruck in geld wag preaenteﬁ ta Dr. Schwaitmar'by tha Raverand Gharlas Joy in
0310 whare Dr. Schweitaar had gone t0 recaivadthe ﬁnbih Paaca Prizﬁ. fhe
Animal Welfare Institute aupporta legislation far the humana treatmeat of ax»
perimantal animals baaad on the principlas 9f tha British Act which hag
gaverned animal experimsnts in thatrnaticn fer eightwaiva yaars with the
approval and support of British aeiantiets from Gharlaa Barwin and Themas
Huxley down to the praaent day and including the mast recent co~winnar af‘ﬁhe
Rahal Prize for Phyaielogy and Medicine, Frofesser P. B. Eadawar.

I ﬁhink the abave will give yam enough to pick out what you may want ﬁe
use for an mannadnction. I am the Presidant of the Animal Welfarw Instituta,
and I aIEQLSQrva an the boards af $evaral other humana erganizations including
Friends nf Animala, the Humana Sacieﬁy uf‘waahtanaw Beauty (a ahalter sceiaty
in Ann Arbar, ﬁichigan where we maad to live) and the ﬁociety fer Animal Pra~
bacttva Legialation. My fathar wag ﬁbr. Rmberﬁ Gaaell, chairman, until his
asath in 1953, 0f the Bepartmamt of Physialogy 9f theiﬁedical school 0f tha
Univaraihy of‘ﬁichigan. He W33 a member 9f the Adviﬁary Committae cf tbs
Animml‘Welfare institute from.its‘faunding.

 




////// Mr. wnﬁhww Shrwhw .: Swptwmhar 55 1961

Yaw wwkwd far fhah quwtiaas whiah might help be lead affa Ywur firwt wwggwwhiah
whwmw ahawluhwly right; What 15 thw pwrhhwh 0f thw ohgwniawtihn? 2) whw many
animalw wwww few expwrimwntwlhparpewww? Has thwra bwaﬁ much ehangw in thh numbers
wf animwlw wwwﬁ fay axparimanth in rwawnt ywaww? 3) ﬁavw yam fauna mdwhrwwhmhat
0f whiwwlw in wwhy laboraﬁhriwa? h) 13 lagialahihn nwcwawwry ta yrevwnt nwedless
wuffhrihg hhﬁ hawth? 5) 'Ehw ﬁih it Gama whhwt that Britain pahwed lwgiwlwtian
rwqwiriwv hwmwhh hwswtmwnh hf Rwhuratahy animwlw? 6} ‘Wha appawew the lwgiwlahion
in mm whammy"? {including perhaps why :13 ahhiwviviwwwtimiwhw 01::wa it?)

E Shall ah ah thh hﬁth ﬁtrawh entrancw hf the waelay Kathi 3% haven Q*wlhhk
Swphwhhwh wighhhw szvhhehw 13 anything 318$ yaw wwuld like ta have, pleaww phcnw
may and ? wax: hw glad ts hrwvidh it. '

“22*, thanks , I am-

Sincerely,

 




PRESS W‘LWS?‘ USED my 26th ! 9’ é/

THE SCHWEITZER NEDﬂL OF THE ADINAL WELFDRE INSTITUTE IS DWARDED

ANDUALLY FOR THE MOST OUTSTANDING CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE REDUCTION

OF THE FAWN AND FEAR INFLICTED ON ANIMALS BY MIN. THE INSTITUTE

EMPHASIZES HUMANE WORK FOR THE ANIMALS USED FOR EXPERIMEBTATISN, FOOD
AND FUR, AND IT CARRIES ON AN EXTENSIVE EDUCATIODAL PROGRAM WHICH LAST
YEAR INCLUDED THE PROVISION OF AIFROXINATELY 20,000 FRET MANUALS TO

SCIENCE TEACHERS THRODGHOUT THE UNITED STATES.

 




, ,1 67 5/
MES RFlEASE USED MAY 26th ,

THE .sfcmmmzm :m ML (:9 THE: :::I::AL EE-EELFARE ms TI 2:11:33: IS AWARDED

A::::::LL: :03 m: mm sawsmmnmc . cbmmanoms :0 THE REDUCTION

o: m; m ::~::: Mm: 1::FLI cm: or: :mms :3“: MAN. THE INSTITUTE

' E::::::::5:z::s :~:r'::::::::: m :03 THE AN :::: IS USED m: EX PER ITMETATI 2:: , Foam
:71: mm a “IT 0:33:33 0:: :1: EXTESEQ'EIVE EDUC ATIO‘NAL PROGRAM WHICH LAST
mm: :mr“: THE: 1:2 3:33: 23:: or: ":mwwmr .20 ,000 mgr. MNUALS TO

SCIWﬁP W’JHQS THE. WEE-{GUT THE 113:3 ‘31? STATES. ‘

 




FROM: ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EAST 17TH STREET
NEW YORK 3, N,Y,
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

For the first time since its creation in 1954, the Albert Schweitzer Medal
of the Animal Welfare Institute, given annually in recognition of an outstanding
contribution to the welfare of animals, has been awarded to humanitarians in Africa,
Chief Abdullah Said Fundikira and Mrs, Isobel Slater, of Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika,
President and Executive Director reSpectively of the Tanganyika Division of the Royal
SPCA, are joint recipients and will share the $500 cash award that accompanies the
medals, (Dr, Schweitzer himself was the recipient of a gold replica of the medal at

the time of its creation in 1954,)

Presentation of the medals will be made in person to Chief Fundikira and
Mrs, Slater by the Hon, G, Mennen Williams, newly appointed Assistant Secretary

of State for African Affairs, on his next trip to Africa,

Chief Fundikira is,Minister for Land and Surveys of Tanganyika and wildlife is
under his jurisdiction in this capacity, The Tanganyika RSPCA, which works actively

to protect both wild and domestic animals from cruelty and needless destruction and

conducts an effective program of humane education, has nearly 800 branches comprising

some 40,000 African members,

The Animal Welfare Institute works for the welfare and humane treatment of all
animals, and publishes free manuals on the prOper treatment of laboratory animals,
It favors enactment of legislation in this country which would ensure the humane treat—
ment of animals used in research, It works to pr event painful experiments on living
animals by school children, and last year published a free manual for biology teachers
entitled "Humane Biology Projects", The promotion of humane methods of slaughtering
livestock, encouragement of humane education for children, and protection of wildlife,

are among the other activities of the Institute, whose offices are at 22 East 17th Street,

New York 3, NoY,

 




22.222. 223, 1962.

“may ‘23.. 22222222 22212211222;
2.2 22iatant
2222.22.21.14? 2211:2231‘ 332232335. .2222 222:2; 232222229223?
Mfth 222223
. 2:22:22: 2:22,... 2:. :2.

ling,

.22.. "32222222 1222222222 of f2’22bm221ay 2712?},
222.21.222.22 a 2:222 272 mof 2221‘ mast remn‘b mailing 22.22. 193’
£2322 222222 2222222 222 2.122222 “22222222 2223‘ 222:22 2222222222221. 2225222212: and
2 122.12. 2-21.2222 1222 2222 222 mg infarmation an
:2 22 2222.322“ 3:21P2122t225222222: 223 by .23222222231‘ (32222223222.

3:2? 322222 2.2.222 22221322222222 ‘2 2222’; 2222222222.: 2222, 2.2122222 3.222. 2.23
322222222. Y2:- .22' 1122222222222. 12 222222222 1222:2232.

.23 5.22 222222222135

222239121129 232261322228 ,
P222235 dent

 




THE CROWELL-COLLIER PUBLISHING COMPANY

640 FIFTH AVENUE - NEW YORK 19, N. Y.
JUDSON 2-8000

February 27, 1961

EXECUTIVE OFFICES

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
7h5.Fifth Avenue
New York, New York

Dear Sir:

COLLIER'S'ENCYCLOPEDIA plans to include an article
on vivisection in its next revision and we would appreciu
ate any material you might be able to send us on that sub-
ject.

we are interested in the justifications for and the
arguments against animal experimentation. And we would
appreciate particularly information on the most recent bills
placed before Congress concerning vivisection.

Any material on animal experimentation which you
might care to include would be most welcome. Thank you
for your cooperation.

Very truly yours,

as " I, f) f
[, jam/w 1-1.. “EM. 4/ 2,: i

Nancy E/ Ho ughtaling /
Research Assistant

 




sax-ah 951.963. 5 ‘

~ 333...: :may 3. 11333351311233

. ' ” ,/' Ramsarsi: 33132111331113 . .
Tim 3333331153.: 3.15m: Publishing Campany
‘ 633.313 11211113 1333333331 -
113333 11333:? 21.95 53. '1'.

I 1131311111131 Fawb‘imilym,

- ; 7133 $351113: '33:: year istiar of Fabmsry 2713131 33:: 333333335 yea under
33133113133: smwm * * 1'23 33 3. “1.3.1911” 3*: a swims a1“; 0333* . maﬁy Infom’bim “
Raybris 5 33.3.13: 1.13%.. 33:33 133331 wilibs a1” 13121713161113? 21.1-31- erasi; 1:30 3,313: 33.33333; 5
s 333533: 331' 11531; 21513? 3333* 1133* 33:13:33.3 11333133013. sf sxwrmanial 5331333133
'capias :31 333W 33331333333: 11113331133" 3'.» 3. ms :31? Tynarii 1333111331 iaiwmlai and “Cwiwtabls
7 @3333er 313:3: 333:. 3*: £33.33 *3: 3.3: 1:313:11 3133.: 1.5mm 1333* 3313: i3: axmrimsbtai laboratari :33 ._
” (3m giym 1.13:...» » 11.33333 :33: raqmmt it: 133*: .33: 3333433333331. madlam 3333314331333: thmuwh
, igrwrmsm mi 3:. 1* *amyia 3311‘ 333332.33 33m: 1:: 33:3: 1.3: 3.3313331113011331); 3333:! 3333331333! 331'
bur 33333333313 ’ '3*.*3*«**** 1"“ 913.3553: prejsbts“ anti 111112131. Aid and Cam az- Small Animals”
1181333333: 1333* 33:33: by 333339331 1333::- chsrs 1m aaaauraym 1313333113353 3333:3331. 1331:1111 1.3: ba
133333333 .3333: 13:3 311* :3 3533: 1311111111 <3. 3 £3.31 ”*3: 1:13:57 333* is: 121133 3311333193} :31 mating 53103118.
113:9 3*sﬁi....m: .333 533*: 33* 331‘ ymmimia :31? 33113331. 33 331110133 333.": 1131.3 'ssriaua mibjeats
"171131 1:133 :31” 33:31:33333m 1.33 131333 133.335 333.1 11:33: 1.13.1” an be 111331311111 it?! 333::
Amrmm. 1‘ alas; 21:31:11”? 111:. 33333111333: mi ”11331311 11:33:33 1313:: Ladi 33 13:31:13 3313mm}. and
331133331. 11.23. 35.3.: 3:17:33 :33: 1.131 subjasi of 1:333: 1331. 1.1.3313 33:31. that mrnls'baa animal em- :
parimsmi—m 1.33 333.361: minimise? 1:: 1.1133 1:31:33: .33.. 1:33.335; 3333331 3%. ~

03:33» mmmm 3533333 .5353“ :33: an 1.1m 3331333 333311333: far and the arm: .ia 33353311381
53311113113. **.<r**** 3*313311033 5 ma baliavza 1.1131; ammsmissata :33: sﬁimala are justified when
. 333353331313: amiabiist... 1:33:31 :3. rsimbnabla 31:33:32.3: <31 3mm; impartam sciaatifib facts.)
3313161333333: 333: 33132315 is 333333133 11.35 193?, 11fs** 113:: cars 3331‘ dissasa, aiisﬁamian 3:1:
suffssms r3333 3:335:11333 :31 11195 131333 :3: *33.*3<:a:3a**3. 331‘ smmialasi 133. 16333331333153.5335 as

153* :31 1.1.1:. my 111313131153113’31‘1115... 5 " 131a 1333113373 113% 3333311 asperimts 811012131 133

“13333333333315 3:33:31. 3:33:31 1.33 maid inﬂicting 333333.333: 5333: and? 1:3 avaid 1331333: 3333316

anima: 1:333 3333 ....:3ry. 1313: 3333333 that 1313:: r3: 133133161 be a limit is 3:33:13: 2131*»
$1331.33: 5 33:: 1mm 1a is {Emmi Britain 33333333313 13:: tbs Paia Kala. In 33333.5-

5 33a baiimym 1:33:31. 11:33 wait 33313331213133, Charles Bax-win 3331 11353331339 11 331651: 111713
33111113333333: 1333* 33331213333331. of 1313:: British 33:3 ware: right, 333331 timt 131m tharmmh
33:331. 33.333133... 1123331113 353-3333 in 11m Royal Famisaioaa :33: 1333 33333331 333331 1133*: 33:33:31
game-113m 13:. '11 333:: by 33333321 Wsm31nis 33333:: :31 11332 33:1; eye? a pariaci 3:3. {113 $333.33:
3333:: 3333mm 3m :3 3333:2113. far all scientific natiana ta Writ. m 3 . .

. 123's hptmsa 3311' 32331331131 33:33:: 333333113 :33: an 33:31:: by unqualified persona. - grin
3333333133 in 1:33.33 13 labez‘a‘imries sat up by 33333333333, amateur surgary and 131m 1353 '
_ 331‘ paismm (3:3 aiiaaaa 151333 13:33:31: 1.13311: of swmm and. curara 3*: a. 113-11112“
1 _ 1333:3331. isbasatary) 33.33331: 3311 to 133313 damaralising sonaaquansaa on 3303333553:

 




'  Thﬁ problems invelvaé aré'axtramaly‘sefiaua; for if aniaal éxﬁeéimantatian

. _centinu£$‘tc ha ancauragad ta groa'ﬂn tha'mannar ngw being gramated 13 33mg quarters, _j"‘
‘ our:aauntry will hava cut;awqy eampletely:frmm tha,priﬂcip1a which in tha past haa_

_, allawaﬁaciantists‘the privilege ef baing axeaptad fram.tha antiwarualty'lawmzv"
 that is; it has baaniganarally'aSSumed that*the.seiantist'wha naea animala‘is.a‘ .
‘ highly trained, axparianaad man #he turnﬂ ta thairjusagnég whgnjha knewm ma aﬁhmr 7
‘ way t9 find abut the answer wan. "impartantzsciw‘hiﬁc pm , m. ' . ﬁrm is ‘afaird '
and propwr reaSoa far acearding him this privilege. *aut‘whem uaﬁrainad.paapla '
inflicﬁ pain an animals'to.little av no purpnaaa than tha raticnala'af;athieal ’
:justiricatinn fer animal axparimantatien is ﬁastrqyad.vfha_breaéar*of animmla, j
tha cagﬁ manufaaﬁurer and the umtrained‘inéiviﬁual‘whc has salfiah raaaana far

wanting £0 climb_mn the aeiantifis.bandwagan mmyrfind tha~dastrnctiwn5af thia ,

ratiamala Vang helpful. The Effect an the cauntny,.huwaver,‘is"ba& hacﬁuaa/it

A rapragants a major ratragrassion 0f athical‘3tandarda anﬁ bacwasa it alga raﬁults
in the lawaring of scientific standards. Animal experimantatian haﬁ aaammaa

~the grapsrt10na of a largw'industny; It 1a urgant that sound, humana, 1aga1~
central be @6tab1ishaﬁ. ,H.R. 1937 wanlé praVida,aueh cantrdl ' ,,'*

. .. If ynu.have furthar qugationa abant am? ai iﬂe infmrmatima'ér matarial WﬁU
hava sent, 9? abéuﬁ minar»mat@rial yna;mgy have remaivad5'ww will b9 glad to‘

sand.Mﬁra'imfarmatisn er meat with yam arwtalk kg yhcna if thiﬂ Humid b6

‘helpful. ' - . ~ '- , . -' - ' ,> ,

Ybur interast in presgnting acduraﬁa imfbrmatimn an thia aubjaat isrgraatly'
appreciated. There 13 much-falaa prepaganda in wrint, haﬁh‘byiantiavivieaatian
groupa anﬁ ﬁy-maﬁical raaearah graupa.v‘ ' - 3‘ H - - :

‘($inmeraly,

 




TYIE‘CFiCﬁWHELl:(3CNLIJEIQ]?[H3LISfﬂDﬂ3-CKMVﬂaxNHT

84-0 FIFTH AVENUE - NEW YORK 19, N. Y.
JUDSON 2-8000

February 27, 1961

EXECUTIVE OFFICES

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New York

Dear Sir:

COLLIER'S ENCYCLOPEDIA plans to include an article
on vivisection in its next revision and we would appreci-
ate any material you might be able to send us on that sub-
ject.

we are interested in the justifications for and the
arguments against animal experimentation. And we would
appreciate particularly information on the most recent bills
placed before Congress concerning vivisection.

Any material on animal experimentation which you
might care to include would be most welcome. Thank you
for your cooperation.

Very truly'yourj,

.- ’1‘ : I
r g“. '.
’ l :.
”ﬁﬁacﬂf 6:; W‘wZidlmwm‘x
,v‘

Nancy Ei Houghtali g g

Research Assistant

 




x

\

\
\

 

,

.IA' ‘élﬁé'h‘ an;

, - H UMANITARIANS
HONORED BY ~

The Eight Humanitarians receiving OUR PET WORLD Plaques for Outstanding
Human-Animal Relationship for 1960 are from left to right: GEORGE WINTER,
President of Napi; CAROL LYNN, Director Greenwich Humane League; WILLIAM
H. A. CARR, Columnist, New York Post; CHRISTINE STEVENS, President Animal
Welfare Institute; JANET MACK, Author; DR. S. B. BIGMAN, Atlas Canine Prod—
ucts; NORMAN KUNKIN, President Laddie Boy; IRVING GLICK, Vice President
Second Sight Guide Dog Foundation for the Blind, and HEDY WHITE, Co—Editor Our
Pet World who presented the plaques. Seated are DEAN WHITE and FRANK FAY,

Famous Actor.

By ETHEL KING

UR PET WORLD hon-
ored eight of the nations
outstanding humanitari-

ans by presenting its annual
awards for Human-Animal Rela-
tionship for 1960 at a festive lunch—
eon attended by more than two
hundred prominent leaders in the
animal kingdom, at the Shelburne
Hotel in New York City. Plaques
were awarded to:

8

GEORGE WINTER, Attorney
for the National Association of the
Pet Industry, who is responsible
for the coast to coast campaign to
obtain a million signatures to sup-
port admittance of pets into hous—
ing projects that now forbids
youngsters to own a cat or dog. His
efforts to combat juvenile delin-
quency through pet ownership for
teen-agers has won acclaim from

 




D. WEBB GRANBERRY, D.O.M.D.

the passing of our beloved president, friend, humanitar—

HUMANITY and OUR PET WORLD suffered a great loss,
ian and gentleman extraordinary can never be replaced.

Doctor Granberry was a noted medical physician and osteopath.
He literally accomplished wonders for the lame and sick. He was
endowed with the magic of the Christ-like touch. He made adjust—
ments possible to the sick in mind, too. He brought to his many
patients the capacity for real happiness through love and compre-
hension.

He understood and loved all God’s creatures. People and animals
in turn truly loved and highly respected him. Kindness, simplicity
and a warmness bespoke every action of this great man. His whole
life was devoted to helping his fellow man, and he was dedicated
to every humane cause.

Doctor Granberry’s friends and patients consisted of those who
are in Who’s Who, and also the poor, the humble and the unknowns.
He treated them all with the same diligence and care. His love of
life, his candor and his knowledge of humans and animals enshrined
him to all who were fortunate to know him.

We know that he is looking down from Heaven and inspiring
us to carry on his Godly policy of Human-Animal Relations. With-
out that inspiration we could not carry on.

THE EDITORS AND STAFF

 




’1960

judges, humanitarians, and na-
tional civic groups nation-wide.
Through his continued efforts
NAPI employs the handicapped to
do its mailing. His shows at the
Hotel New Yorker has brought
ethical exhibitors from practically
every state in the union, and many
countries abroad. In conjunction
with his wife, Jay, more new prod-
ucts to beneﬁt humans and animals
has been introduced in the U.S.A.
than from any other source. His is
a work of love and devotion.

MISS CAROL LYNNE, Direc-
tor and Chairman of the Board of
The Greenwich Village Humane
League whose tireless efforts cou-
pled with other members of the
League is responsible for building
a new home for kittens and cats in
Greenwich Village. This will be a
land mark, and serve as a model
institution. Miss Lynne is head of
the campaign to raise $250,000 for
this needed project. The League
employs the handicapped to do its
mailing.

WILLIAM H. A. CARR, star pet
columnist for the New York Post,
and feature writer. His column has
. become a must reading for every
pet owner, breeder and friend of
animals. He is never too busy to
lend a helping hand to any individ-
ual or organization that helps his
four legged friends. His warm hu-
mane column has brought thou-
sands of new readers to the New
York Post.

MRS. CHRISTINE STEVENS,
national leader in all humane
causes. An outstanding personality
who has dedicated herself to hu-

HUMANITARIANS 9

manitarian work. This charming
lady is President of the Animal
Welfare Institute, Sec’y Treas. of
the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, Chairman, Board of
Directors Friends of Animals, Sec-
retary Humane Society of Wash-
tenaw County, Ann Arbor, Mich-
igan, and scores of other humane
endeavors. Her present efforts
through the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation is for pas-
sage of the Cooper Bill is winning
wide acclaim from humanitarians,
veterinarians and the medical pro-
fession.

MISS JANET MACK, noted au-
thor, editor and leading authority
in the dog world. She has bred 30
champions of various breeds. Her
present Champion Erlo de la Thu-
dine, The Bouvier Des Flandres
with the fabulous, tousled correct
coat is considered the ﬁnest Bou-
vier in. the country. Her acts of
charity and kindness to. the handi-
capped is publicly little known——
that is the way this grand human-
itarian prefers it to be. She is also
a founder of the recently incorpo-
rated American Guild of Animal
Artists. Many of her animals have
appeared on stage and television.

DR. S. B. BIGMAN, famous vet-
erinarian, who has been conducting
experiments in therapeutic animal
care for Atlas Canine Products.
Many cats and dogs will subse-
quently enjoy longer, healthier life
due to his meritorious accomplish-
ments.

NORMAN KUNKIN, President
of Laddie Boy Dog Foods, Inc. who
has quietly and unobtrusively given

 




0 UR PE T WORLD

Christine Stevens is addressing the gather-
ing of over 200 humanitarians on the advan-
tages of the Cooper Bill. Hedy White and Dr.

Eleanor Crissey, noted psychiatrist carefully
listen.

Gil Gruber making the opening address, with
his usual spell-binding effect.

Seated at the dais from left to right are:
Gil Gruber, Pres. NAPI, Dean White, Christine
Stevens, Frank Fay, Hedy White, Dr. Eleanor
Crissey, and Father Phillippe.

Fall-Winter

Gil Gruber is endorsing OUR PET WORLD
for helping to obtain a million signatures for
NAPI in their drive to combat juvenile delin-
quency, and admittance of pets in housing
projects.

Offering the benediction for the luncheon is
Father Phillippe, noted priest; paying close
attention is Christine Stevens.

Norman Kunkin, President of Laddie Boy, and
Carol Lynne, Director of Greenwich Village
Humane League, receiving citations from
Hedy White.

 




1960

his product to humane institutions,
and is always helping every worth-
while humane cause. He is deeply
interested in all animals, and the
handicapped. He is an anonymous
contributor to many human-animal
activities.

IRVING GLICK, Vice president
of the Second Sight Guide Founda-
tion. He devotes his time, energy
and funds to help this renowned
Guide Dog Foundation become the
leading organization of its kind in
America. He regularly visits this
splendid well—kept home at Smith-
town, Long Island, where expert
trainers teach the Guide Dogs to
literally become Second Sight for
the blind. As a busy executive, and
partner in Atlantic—Bernstein Ad—
vertising Agency, he has recently
introduced a new toy for young-
sters whereby they can become ac-
quainted with every breed of dog-
dom. He has personally distributed
these toys to shut—ins, and problem
children, who formerly thought
that a dog’s tail was only used to
tie a tin can to. He has continually
devoted his interest and talents in
behalf of the handicapped and ani-
mals.

The above distinguished humani-
tarians were the recipients of OUR
PET WORLD plaques for Out-
standing Human-Animal Relation-
ship.

GIL GRUBER, editor of Pet
Food Industry magazine, and Pres-
ident of the National Association
of the Pet Industry and national
authority on labels, made the open-
ing speech, and the awards were
presented by Hedy White co-editor

HUMANITARIANS 11

of OUR PET WORLD. Honored
guests at the dais were:

FATHER PHILLIPE, who con-
ducts the annual Blessing of the
Animals for the Greenwich Village
Humane League; Dr. Eleanor Cris-
sey, lecturing psychiatrist of Cor-
nell University, and on the staff of
Payne-Whitney Clinic, and former
head psychiatrist for the Women’s
State Prison in New York.

FRANK FAY, famous actor of
“Harvey” renown. His gallant
Americanism has been an inspira-
tion. He has never been without a
pet. His wit so humorously evi-
denced in his speech had the gath-
ering in “stitches”. The entire
audience gave this grand man a
standing ovation for his ﬁght
against communism.

An empty chair was placed in
honor of Dr. D. Webb Granberry,
president of Penthouse Publishers
of Our Pet World, who passed
away prior to the luncheon. A silent
prayer was offered for Dr. Gran-
berry who devoted a life time to
helping the handicapped and the
animal kingdom.

The luncheon was attended by
practically everyone of prominence
in the humanitarian world; June
Eliot, Director, and Janice Paprin,
Editor of the ASPCA magazine;
Audrey Kane of The Bide-A-Wee
Home, Mr. O. Bain of the Speyer
Institution, Jerry and Mrs. Bar-
dasch, editor of the Pet Dealer,
Sam Blake of Lady Greyhound
fame; Madeline E. Baiter, noted
German-Shepherd authority; Mad-
eline Bemelmans and guests; Mrs.

 




OUR PET WORLD Fall-Winter

Among the distinguished guests are: Jay
Winter and party; Dr. and Mrs. Berger; Wil-
liam C. Coleman, Advertising Manager of Pet-
food Industry.

Frank Fay literally held the gathering in
“stitches” with his Witticisms.

Enjoying the festivities are: Sam Blake and
party, the man who made Lady Greyhound an
international symbol; Mrs. C. Blaine of the
Speyer Home, Tom Nagle of Calo Products;
Audrey Kane, Editor of the Bide-A-Wee Home,
Virginia Cloud, writer and Miss deLys author.

Irving Glick, Vice Pres. Second Sight Guide
Dog Foundation is being congratulated by
Dean White for humanitarian accomplish—
ments.

Paying rapt attention to the speakers are:
June Eliot, Director of the ASPCA; Janet
Paprin, Editor, ASPCA Journal, Mr. and Mrs.
Jerry Bardasch, he is Editor of PET DEALER,
Mrs. T. I. Spring, Associate Editor, The Green-
wich Village News.

Norman Kunkin, Christine Stevens and Bill
Carr wait in line to acknowledge their appre-
ciation to Hedy White for receiving their
plaques.

 




1960

J. Donald Duncan; Tom Nagle who
won the drawing prize of a dia-
mond pin by Guyot. Tom Nagle
supplied a gift from Calo, where
he is top man, for every guest. Mrs.
H. J. Sachs, Director of Second
Sight, who had as her guests the
entire Executive Board of Direc-
tors from the Second Sight Guide
Dog Foundation, and assisted in
the drawing of door prizes.

Also: Mrs. Alice Schmid, Pres-
ident of Friends of Animals, who
ably assisted in the prize drawings.
Ida Spring editor of the Greenwich
Village News; Mr. and Mrs. Ed—
ward P. Renner. Mrs. Renner’s ex-
ceptionally ﬁne paintings was a
feature of the affair. They received
the highest praise from art critics.

Also present were Mrs. Frances
Newland and guests; Lewis Harris
and guests; Mr. and Mrs. Samuel
Blumberg and guests; Mrs. Andre
de B. de Coizart and guests; Phil
D. Hurs and guests, Miss Helen
Grobin and guests; Mrs. E. Ballan
and guests; and scores of other
prominent humanitarians from 14
states, representing practically ev-
ery facet of humane groups.

HUMANITARIANS 13

The affair was highlighted by
Christine Stevens’ interesting and
informative talk explaining the ne-
cessity and purposes of the Cooper
Bill. Many guests asked questions
from the ﬂoor, and the C00per Bill
won many new adherents.

A feeling of warmth and good
fellowship permeated the entire
proceedings. Each guest left with
a prayer of thanks to the Almighty
for having the privilege of being
introduced to two exceptional peo-
ple, Jerry Walsh, and Judy Ferrel,
and their Second Sight Guide Dogs.
This blind couple, thanks to Second
Sight Dog Foundation for the
Blind are getting married Decem-
ber 3rd at the Second Sight Train-
ing Center in Smithtown, Long Is-
land. Their patient and intelligent
Guide Dogs are Missie, a Boxer
that belongs to Judy, and Sheba,
a German Shepherd that takes care
of Jerry Walsh.

OUR PET WORLD will present
plaques to outstanding humanitar-
ians for Human-Animal Relation-
ship as an annual feature of the
publication.

Mynas will imitate almost any whistle. Recently a fellow got his
face slapped because his myna has a “wolf call” down to a science.
:3: :3: >2: 2: :1: :3:

People never catch respiratory diseases of any sort from cats.

It’s a fact that cats see better than we do in dim light, and they see

all right in broad daylight.

Goldﬁsh have been bred cﬁommercially forumore than six hundred

years.

After you have read and enjoyed OUR PET WORLD, won’t you
please send it on to some home, hospital, prison or other institution.
Do this with your other magazines too. Thank you.

:1: :3: 2:: :i: >3: :3:

The ﬁrst northern people to keep cats were the Scots.

 




a

OVWWWWWWW’JWWW L03 @W‘WWWW‘W‘LOGWWQ

For Cats. .ancl Dogs, too!

lADDIE BOY
Tuna Cat Food

IT’S 100% TUNA

0 Enriched with vitamin E

0 Contains 22V2 % protein

0 Both red and light meat tuna
DOGS LOVE IT TOO!

Remember, It's
10070 TUNA
by LADJDIE BOY

~ .0

§
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
§
A
A
A
A

wwwwwwwawwwwwwwwwwwwwwaw

 




V n. .1. f. ,3 .V,‘ v‘.\ '5. N}? v
, . S ‘ , ' ' ¢
'. r ' ' 4! 'I
4 ,,: , . - ~._. , ,

n .
HG?

. . . f M f A . f ' ’5“ 1) ”f
" :‘f ‘: 1::‘7’ 3' 5“» 7“!” $1 % .41“ "\- " .,2 «“5 a f '1 {1. F1 3 ,‘
» .' '_ s. '.., .m' - v19 , ‘7 . G}: V

i i i " ‘ u 1‘:ng .‘ ;_ s“; M’ :“ ~ ‘M ”(.3 we E 0.} “:"é,.,‘.~ New.“ ' ~

J

, . . v.5; Jar-wry" f by? '3‘”
if! {if 2‘”. ("if " z: 4:". 1 r , “1‘
" .é ; .‘.—J.€.3l J.Lt“+:.»

g?u) - ggqui rnechﬂfﬁca,

3 w
”lama"

‘ ”I," ”afﬁx“; ”ff W; 47"-
; .‘. ..‘

.4. an. m_j.f,,;x.i'

*xM-{w‘mrr ﬁ‘l‘ 4
,r t» ‘1‘}-;‘, ’
_- ,u -, ff; 5 '0

W‘. if '
g 1'31.} ‘

Rﬁdbcwg, Gaaﬁ

ﬁaaltb, ﬁam
fllugﬁrateﬁ

Garéeasg

:‘ 'ﬁ‘xg, 2‘ {T’YW-t?
n Lx' 1" l as; ngf-sf

Faraﬂe.

’17:»- wk, “adva ,
If 3‘ 1:1“

*““1‘ Vﬁnfﬁg ﬂoat:
>2r‘3 Ei«est.

Jmericau mercury.

?age&nt.

v: (‘4: "‘3‘”... T

gravy») {17:
:1 Lilla? ;'

mam? "
g Fﬁﬁnaﬂu Paraaa.
3:91.”; 'th‘I‘na )fmf‘ a $1}:- Fox-«Fey?

33a 56. 51‘ it o

. .. ‘V' .> ‘ «my
‘ "i“ 5.15 . 3.5. f f .-
3“, . {ﬁgt‘kgiz .f) f.‘

g :n- u. .~~

‘3, Y7" .w‘, .a. (‘3. L
“ﬂmnx raga 13 2 avg?

Jer'a flwestﬁ

1’".
gig}. '1 ”LIL 35:} ,

“afail'ﬁ, Lﬁak3,1i£ﬂ

tﬁ, agorts

”a. ..A.

W ‘3'.

91th

f .1 ‘1‘"). g. ,. p} 7.“.
5%, Sfﬂhﬁus iage ﬁt.
I”: f "a. if mm ‘
Hattﬁr unmea rfe 8.

Fa?aﬁ$, Batter {ofas ? mg

Eff
\

awe Jngrnal.

'ﬂo“: ‘3 “'31:!

i9 %& er's flyast,

‘ :5q1ﬁ1‘3

t3 Saturéay ﬁve. ?ost, Faraats‘, Family Circle'

rmcqw’ﬁercurg=

weakly

gaaéar‘s figest,

.r" V J
, y“; 531' 3

ii as m3 :atimes 1% eader’

'38
\..«

f 5%. ﬁaﬁt ,

Carkaet, Eaadar’a Eigast.

u, ﬁedbamk, Cami?

:0 11E}; S'tl‘ft ((1 3

 




CCTFFACF GCCAGA~QRAAAAAAI Cipaat, CcAmA %01 .AA, FAAAly Circle, FApAlAr ‘ciC CAAA, FAttAr
FAAAA A UAAAAAA. ' '

GCFFAF~C This NAAC, FAAAAAA LiAA ELAAAAAC,FAAA JAArAAl.
F CCC’” GC AIFA- FAAArtAr, FAAAA‘EA‘.

GFLFFCFFw LAACAA? AAAA Jaurnal
RAFFR' F. GGTCFAFo FarAdA, ECttAr Hamﬁsaﬁ Gardens, Flamﬂur, GAAA HQRSARPAF4HMA
CCI‘LTGA GC‘CCC- Saturday FAA. Fest, Charm, FAAAAAA ingest, JAAAAA]. A.1ZC'T:-T. A. V
C ACCCCCCAC-C CC. "ii". TCCCAA C CCCgazine. ‘
FFGFAFF GFGFS- .This 3AAA, Agaant, 100k, ThiAk.
FFFLFF’RCFVFXa FAAAAAA. Glammur.

TH"TD)RF IF”C‘—~Feaders Figest, CoroAAt, Familv AAkLy, FAAA«A At, American FAAkly,
Pepular SAiAAcA. ,_

GEORGE KATQGAw EuAinAAs FAAk, Nation's FuAiAess

IPAAC ACAC- AacLAAA'A Fagazine

FILLICF KITAF-»AAAbooA, Pageant, CoronAt, FAACIA CirclA, Family AAAkly.

RUTH FITCFHuu upeﬁ, American FerfAmAr, FAAAty Fashian.
JGFF ROFLERQ SaturAAA‘GVA. Fast.‘
A»SF~: Achawmr IllustrAtAA, Coronet, GAAA FAAAARAApiAg.
CA FCF Fa CAAmopolitAA.
FQFAAN LADFF- ageawt, ToAA;rr'A Fiving.
LAFFFACF LAFFRuTFAAbAAk, EAAtAr FAAAACC Gardens, FAAAArA Figest.
ALFCF‘LAﬁﬁw Saturday FAA. Fest, AcCall's, ﬁAAboAk.
FAFFAH’LFFS-BAAArAAy FVA. Fast, ThA ReportAr, FcCAll'A, RAAAAAA DiAAAt.
ACARY'LHm-»CoronAt, deay 8 FAAlth, FCAAAAt. I
IFVZFG LFI AFFAﬁuCuaturday FVA. P031, LAAAAAAX IllustrAAAd, FettAr FAAAACA”GAAAAAA.
RQAC'T J. LFVTF- RAAbAAk, CAAAAAt, Pageant. I
ATLTGF I. AFFIFF, F.D.~ Redbaok, TodayCA FAAlth.
'AAFLIA LGFFFAZ~ Family.Circle, Esquire, FAAAAAA'.
E FTTY’LFSSIC -LAA1A5' HAAA Journal.

TGF’FAFAFFY» RAAdArA Figest, Coronet, A. 3. Times Aagazine.

 




 

  

S. nirSSJ- $333333 Sig35t.

‘ ‘i'

33RT~ 6333333.

 

RISﬁSE'”1MF"~ 1333,13 113333, 3.3} Times SoakﬁR3view
531‘ 331311333 5331111151313}? 333.3031

331M 3 1313-- 3113123313 , Glamour

SVELES SHTS SS11QS- Parents S3ga1zj.33, 633331113 Siﬁast
1"III1P “T 1iﬁvﬂ331~ Page3nt

SILIISH I, WGSSEw P333631 $33331 S331th S1333?
~ESS MURS£T~ 3336333 $13333 ,‘Sah13d3y S13. E 33b 3 @3113, True, 1033n3t

33%?5 “111”R~ ”03333311131

333133 J. 1'13“- 1111111111..

‘1, ~ ‘1'?“ . ‘F T1 {"3 12‘?!“ ‘71: 1‘”; ,
smfﬂ “ 3113:5114 1 11.)” ”£1111:

113:

T" ,, T7117 ‘1' “Ff? if," T1 ) TF3“ “1"“. Emmi ,4," 7’53 '14
131?: 311.1 .11.. 1Q ’ 1.1111.- 3 THE». "" L‘..~C‘;"€~1al 1;: 7;. . 1177:1135) 1;

S33; 5Q711X Pﬁﬁﬁﬁfﬁ (“ 11?)~ 33333313 7323333 “1333t
T”“ J. TA;S”TR~ 8333333, Fageant'

J.B, RSTCLITFw R333333 133331.

JESS RDSB‘SSm 33333r3 Tig3ét, ”’C31139 This V333, Seébooh

J11? RORP1ES~ 3363115, This'ﬁeek, Redbook, R33 erg Eigest

LSTSéRD 311136? RSETSSTTo The 333 «arkar, narvor’u, «333333 {11333, £3G3113, R3

S. 1. Times 333331 33333 LS, Some Hausek33pjng
3.1. RGEaLE- Tabeuwt
13. 31.113: 3. 1’‘13.» Look .
SLFRSS‘C. R31LSR~ T133, Uni 333 Feature Syndicaté

ALE ” RJSEST“LL~ Life, 3313 3338 Tlg33t, C030333

SID RS Sn 3113 333 Tﬁgw 133,Fath3110 13331, 1echanix Illxstrated, T3031313

Places

 

 

‘9‘; 3

33303, 533033t,

 

 

    

 

 

“H I

ﬁiR Rﬁ 31S~ 333k, Sation's am 313333 33331333 333kly3.3rgosy

       

 

  




T ,.n-.— ' ., ”.1 3 _ $$$ﬁ3 $orcmta Sis Hwekly, .xfwv;€"%

w-v-gw .s <11'”{W r
- L if ‘f 3 a.) I. 1.3!}?
‘f 1» 3 T" 3‘. mrcm 111 .11“: :1"

=11 _ f3“ ‘1'} “A”. ,
wanna 2:33, ~iDC;.E,1;;¥S

O

2.:3571018 3 3 #30h “3w“ '1‘ 3"“: V7.1:f’ii‘n

("‘"W‘W? 1". :1 -.z,

1 . 1 "'7' . ‘7“: u

k" 1 M t/‘L‘ﬁhl’; "11} “2111C”.:)T "3&4? ‘ {101:3
‘ T7 I :. ~ 1..
:33 {5153‘ , Vigbﬁt $5311.41...»

,1? “15! ,1:
z. 1.. 1 , «if,

.,. ~... -. .1... .1 W
rvmz.‘ ‘5"3.$‘ﬁ (“-5511
1.11... »_.J .1 £1. ;. .r 4

virtual-":1 #1131113

- if .¢,42:~., ‘ a .7.»

‘ 1 ' __ ~ ’3’; '1 . ) 1.. > .. .‘ . .‘ru: 5.21,. > ,1 .‘ . .:. , 3.1! ' .- 1d“- 1") .1 ... "ﬂ
-' ”5.- :1“; 1 . ﬂ 1 -.. ' .' . :‘J- ".7 ' .1 1' . .1_ “J'- -,<..;z_.,,$ ~«"-"1'£J.5 ‘33 L} y
'(i "Pr q. “ 1’! ?"3‘?'7';' 1‘ 7. ~ .
.Q . - I.
. 3:}. A Q '-}~§-'. '

Wi'f'ﬁm-"v? “ - 1, - 1
inspbim"? Lg ‘ "1 F‘ ['1 1 f ‘,;.€L. . 3:110 1

it. v .. .
.; :5“: ”1:32.12?“

1-

?Is'f ‘03; . _ 3,, . .. .7 . . : " ‘1‘, .3, 1 .
5,} f . 1. :J . ‘ 9‘ I i ; I: ».* '. - '3 ﬁ. 3- {:2 ‘ I" "V” ‘ n, _ ‘
i a .31-; ' 71"»: ' .~ . - _ 1: ~ ' "' . '. l..1:3. - 01.... u ’ u... u: 1.. r. (:3 , ,- .~ 1‘ 1

"r

’4\
VI

.- ,,
r5: ,
9.9 E

*3 fl.‘ 1f». 1 ' . ‘1 P.
11:1 mapmg,

- 1.1 v’u 5..»

 




THE CROWELL-COLLIER PUBLISHING COMPANY

840 FIFTH AVENUE ' NEW YORK 19, N. Y.
JUDSON 2‘8000

March 20, 1961

EXECUTIVE OFFICES

Miss hadeleine Bemelmans

President

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
WIS Firth Avenue

New York 22, New York

Dear Miss Bemelmans:

Thank you for your letter, dated March 9, and the
copy of H. R. 1937, which you sent in reply to our request
for material concerning animal experimentation. we sin~
cerely appreciate your taking the time to write to us.

Thank you again for your interest and cooperation
in.this matter.

Very truly yours,A

. [w
/ ~ /‘ J

Nmmyo.Hmwh
Research Assistant

 




em}; *mv o1? mom: a? :mweae
Health & Medialne

‘MARTIFVABRﬁESQE- Reader'sDigeet, Look Family Circle, Coronet, This Week, Pageant.
KENEETH ANDERSQNe Popular Mechanics, Better Homes e-Gardens.'

' DORON K. AHTRIN- Reader’s Digest,'w0man'3 Day,.Ferade, Better Homes & Ge dena.’
MYRIL AXELRQﬂé Pageant, Reader's Digest, Ladiee’ Home Journal.

MARGARET H. BﬁCON~ Parents' ‘

MlSS CﬁROLINR DIRT» Better Homes:& Gardens, Reader‘s Digest, Esquire

DAVIE B. FITMAN- Look ‘

FDWﬂRD N. ERECHﬁaa Re book, Reader's Digest, Saturday Eve. Post, Parente', Family Circle
VIVIAN CﬂT?EH- RedbOok, Parents‘

MRS. JAM? LYHOTT CLQROLI- Parents', Woman's Fay, American Mercury

‘P?TWR J. CVTYI?RS- Redbook, Good Housekeeping

CHARMS A. Creme-s This Week, Pageant, Nation's Tueiness

DAVIP N. FLFﬂR?- Fetter Homes & Gardens, Readers Tigest

JAMVS.C.G. CGSHIFF- Today's Health, Fan lw'ﬁeek y, Family Circle, Reader's Eigest,

.'
r.

Hechanix Illustrated, 300d Housekeeping.

DONALD G. COOLWY- Better Homes & Gardens, H.Y. Times Magazine, Reader's Figest,
. Pageant, True

ELEWOR CROATE pm on; Parade.

,LESTER & IR?NE'IwVID- Th1 Week, Parade, Coronet, Reader’s tigest.

MAXINE DKVIS- Saturday Evening Post, McCall's, Look, Life, dedbook, Good Housekeeping.
re. CLEO mzzismx- Reader's Digest.

JOSEPH DE GIOVAﬁEI- American Mercury.

ALBERT EJLIS- Pageant.

ROE”. MNIRLE L. FMFER- Parade.

‘DHNOVAN FIT?PATRICK- True, Argbey, Mechanix Illustrated.

EUGENE D. FLEMIVG- Cosmopolitan.

CGNSTASCE FOSTWR- Parents‘.§agazine

DR. 120? T 5.ng FRA‘XLIE- Pageant.

RICHARD L. FR; - Good Housekeeping, Sports IlluStrQKM135lopbmgﬁ

 




Lﬁ€3W*C” 31*33 - “wuderv ngeut, {3333 W31 tam, Pamily Circ1e3 ,‘1333133 Scia3ce,
omes_3 0333338. ’

JWUW V. WITSV'~ Th.i3 9 3L 1 gig T ; 3 3;” 3*” £333 mernal.
33""CDFT’ ﬁ?3VﬁR~ W3g-r 33 Parents'.
erhﬁﬁﬁﬁ~ 33“ 3333 Journal
Latter 33333 5 Gardens, Ulamour, G333 Iouuekw 313?
‘HHTVV’”” 1W- bﬂta .; Eve. F031, Charm, Weaﬂers Pﬁgest, Journal A

magazine.

CPSRGE KATC
EIPNW?
WILLIéF KITiW- #QL333Y, 3ge 33t, Coro3eu, kamily ' f3rcle, 333111 ee"d
RUTH VITTWWWu 3331, F3 '4 3“ :.*“3 .' T3Lu‘r ‘; hion.
57(33111 15531F12131 -
HﬂRWY‘FUﬁSWn W ““3 u<tr3t°o (333381, C333
“51— (3““3>113t13.

NWRWﬁW LATCWn 51.1-31 1353343 Livi3g.
LATRFWCV LECTRn DnngOn. 03t3‘r hares I carde383
ALTC”:IAKE~ 33333333 333. Post, §cC31l’s, Wadhoak.
HAWWAH LFWS~ Saturday er. Post, The Reporter,'ﬂcﬁall’s, Readers $13331.
W“RY ﬁVﬁu Coronet, Toéay's 1§ealth, ?3geant.
EWW'WC IWT “Wﬁﬁwu Saturday Eve. Post, EecLani} 1113 str3§ed, u€ftmr ”0335;? Gardens.

LWWIW- Reﬁboek, Coronet, Page3nt.

W.B.- ﬂedbook, Today‘s Wealth.

33~113 TEVSWTZ- “3mily Circle, quuire, ?3rents'.

ies' W333 Journal.

31‘s 313% for-33,91, j.— {Rimes Effagazﬁvge.

 




 

 

ALB-321‘ 2;}. 22.221522312- Raaders Digest.

HENRY HﬁRX~ Ccronet.

RI’HART? 2~2ATCH~ 322222323223 Digest, 33.35. Times ﬂock Review
MELKssA 222m. Sammgy Five. Post

ROSA‘JNF. MC VAY- Coronet, Glamour

EVELYN E25512? EW‘SICES- Parents 32252322312116 , Catholic Biggest 7
22-21mm 1‘" W2... Pageant '

MIL? MM 1». HOWE- Parade, Mental Health ?‘23..gest

TVRRY MORRIS- ”2*50Calls, Coronet, Good Efovusekeepmg

NARA E. NIH-LINN- Pageant

DON P—iURR/‘X- Renders I‘igest , Saturday Eve. Pbat, 3‘22: Calls, True, {Eogonet
GARR’TI‘ :DPT’F‘T»E?’F3?~€- P‘srcnts Magazine 1
JAWS PAIMR- Coémopolitan

IBM»! PAOEWSS..- Coronet, Tageant

ROBERT J . PIWRCE- ﬁagezmt

HELENE 221223522223- 2.222.222.2212,

EDITH 2.. 202222122, 22.23.- Readers 2722:2252

MRS. H0125??? WM” ('T"‘I.2I.:Y)- Harper's, Reader's T'igest
T771? J. RAVS'E‘ES- Comnet‘, fageant

J.D. Rs'TCLIFF- Readers I‘igest.

JHMZ “29228225- Readers Tigest, i’challs, This 2.223eek, Redbook
JUNE ROBBI’NS- ?€cCalls, Thia Week, Redbook, Rea era fligest

UHMMID ‘:32‘J-T.A(‘i‘¥? ROT‘FES‘W- The New Yorker, Harper's, Readers Biggest, 3’3608118, Reclbmok, bcmw‘t,
' I2. YT. Times Sundajgr 3-2.:2gazine, {3200222 Housekeeping

J.I. RODfIﬁo Fageant

m. BLAH 0. RiﬁERSc-Look

ALF’RT«‘:D C. ESLLTR— Time, United Feature Sgrndicaté

AIBERT 22223222222222- Life, Readers mgeat, Coronet.

SID RQESS- Parade §2€agazgine,(.‘atholic figaat, Eitiechanix Illustrated, Peoah Places

EAEALTER R2IBS- Look, Eiation's Business, American It-Ieekly, Argosy




'HILEIAM SAMERQT- Saturday Eve. Feet, Toronto Star'Weekly, Extension, Challenge for‘ﬁen

MARTIN C..SfM?SQ§~iReedere Eigeet
ﬁﬁRﬁM SCHﬁlﬁFElDu Cosmopolitan, ﬁmericen weekly
3TH BOVRR SCQTTu Better Homes & Gardens, Today's Health

BFRRARD SEVMﬁﬁa Family Circle, ﬁechenix Illustrated, Coronet, Today's ﬁeelth, N.Y. Times
e Magazine

Don SHQRT- Cosmopolitan Good Housekeeping

MILTON SILVERMﬂﬁ— Saturday Eve. Post, Readers'Digeet

STEVJN M. SVEECWﬁo Saturday Eve. Post, Readers Bigest, America Illﬁstrated

ANNE STEIEMKEN- Parade , Vocational Guidance Quarterly, Marriage e Family Living
EDITH M. STERN- Readers Eigest, This'Week, Parents'

ELSIE LIES? THROPE- Family Circle, McCalls

RAY VICKER- Better Homes & Gardens, Science Digest, Readers Digest, Today's Health
GERALD‘%RLKWR- M. Y. Times Magazine, Cosmoeelitan, Pageant

HSWARD'WUTTMAN- Readers Digest, Better Homes ? Gardens, Today's Health

JRCK R. WEITﬁﬁEL-‘ﬁechnnix Illustrated

B§RTQH ?. WWTFEn Coronet, American ﬁercury

MAURICE ZQLOTﬁﬁo Saturday Eve. Post, Cosmoeolitan, American w eekly, Good Housekeeping

 




 

FROM: ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EAST 17TH STREET
NEW YORK 3, N,Yo
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

For the first time since its creation in 1954, the Albert Schweitzer Medal
of the Animal Welfare Institute, given annually in recognition of an outstanding
contribution to the welfare of animals, has been awarded to humanitarians in Africa,
Chief Abdullah Said Fundikira and Mrs, Isobel Slater, of Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika,
President and Executive Director reSpectively of the Tanganyika Division of the Royal
SPCA, are joint: recipients and will share the $500 cash award that accompanies the
medals, (Dr, Schweitzer himself was the recipient of a gold replica of the medal at

the time of its creation in 1954..)

Presentation of the medals will be made in person to Chief Fundikira and
Mrs, Slater by the Hon, G, Mennen Williams, newly appointed Assistant Secretary

of State for African Affairs, on his next trip to Africa,

Chief Fundikira is Minister for Land and Surveys of Tanganyika and wildlife is
under his jurisdiction in this capacity, The Tanganyika RSPCA, which works actively
to protect both wild and domestic animals from cruelty and needless destruction and
conducts an effective program of humane education, has nearly 800 branches comprising .

some 40,000 African members,

The Animal Welfare Institute works for the welfare and humane treatment of all
animals, and publishes free manuals on the prOper treatment of laboratory animals,
It favors enactment of legislation in this country which would ensure the humane treat—
ment of animals used in research, It works to pr event painful experiments on living
animals by school children, and last year published a free manual for biology teachers
entitled "Humane Biology Projects", The promotion of humane methods of slaughtering
livestock, encouragement of humane education for children, and protection of wildlife,

are among the other activities of the Institute, whose offices are at 22 East 17th Street,

New York 3, N,Y,

 




 

 

June 92 1960

. .f‘%‘;?<'§£(3jr F“. 3.....r3rm ”1:516. 376?, {3,0133

03::‘332’1333'3. 0010*? 0’?“ 13%;". P1333, ‘TYnC.

391:3??? E73531e3mm R331} etin
L1

3:33» .. «7‘13“ ‘31:.3'33‘333 U‘I'EiVBI‘S it}:

.!>.‘; ‘ r": ‘-
1¥€?XJEN;*;{ ,53 111$}?! «‘(77‘8 ‘11“
ﬁre? 3 t .3. (3;: ‘51031 133.137}:

‘ (Law: :13" “3 can}! 033 011:3 .3333: mag-3111.37. 3 1.33.336 £3~3..€3gy

5’1407133i. rhmzt 3.333212}: 3.3163 (10133303::‘:=-:mci-;-3LI 1.3.3.5; t 3 3'33313341‘” ; I

aiaa mmcﬁasa a'cogv of tue lGJZ 33% descri%ﬁn mg in. 13

yO‘a H13 ', we. are qlﬁd'ta grovide 131 -vluual (00168
I

R (141.)

f

7'14- 4 4-, l1. --. *r 1. -- .,‘ - «-~ '5‘» :— '
‘33.. .3313. 9.3.9393 330 :31}. 3.3.31.) .1: (“e ; 3.33:3.- (.363. :0: 9.031331 Siam

L: 1310 93" 333.3 3

 




' March 22, 1960

Dr. Sydney 8. Greenfield, Editor
Botanical Sociaty of.America,.Inc.'
Plant Science Bulletin

RutgersdThe State University
-h0 Rector Street

Nawark 2, New Jeremy

Dear Dr. Greenfiéld,

On February 16th we sent_ynu a faw paragraphs con-
cerning booklets available from the‘Animal‘Melfare
Institute for possible publication in "FlaﬁTEcience Bulletin”.
I have just noted in our copy that “First Aid and Care
0f Small.Animala" was described as "a 36~page illustrated
booklet". If it is not too late, this figure should‘be
carrected to h6. I'am sorry if this causes you any in-

'convenience.

Sincerely yours, ‘

Estella Draper
Executive Secrwtany

 




 

$lami ﬁciwnce Bullatia
Rutgeramg‘ State Univeraity
hﬁ Easier Styapt

” if; 2 9 3’3 . Ja

\..
a

L

«A

1
«3‘4,

mu

5““;-

ﬁ’.
.
,L

areanfiald,

ﬁaar ﬁg?
F‘s ..
1 him 3x

”V511! '5"!
1 ....

a a":
‘ .7; 5 $14.8, 1 :7}

cl .- 3}“ > ‘4 «a
«‘3: 49??) ~21
’

V ,
l“.

i
(51-:
‘ J»

aragyaphs an the
ﬁx $0 %a

C “ A
.° ‘ 1N {Jauew y»...-
Eatr}. 4.2;.z‘uu I’m:

halp vayy much.

Botanical $081M? 031’ mwiwg

3 - , ‘1: ‘1
yam is? yam? n}:
n” vc ”9. .‘ .2 m. ‘ 1: 39.3.. . ‘4, l J .-» o, « o
h ﬁﬁuﬁﬁﬂdﬂﬁﬁ'WLvh.yQUﬂ su,g

February 16, 1960
Jaaaayy—L§3~}969

 
  
  
    
    
    
      
 

-» .r “3 7 43:1; ., ., ~ d ‘7‘ n: J .
ia'ra Miami; 3" £350 Lﬁyﬁ§ﬂi$ 33.11 ’ .glwiiui. @523?

Inc 0

16 lattgr cf January 12%‘
gm enalesiﬂg a
hava available far free
an ﬁha we fer humame‘bielagy

1 “ "
) 1:. “- ~59 gm, f
{5'- v‘.’ K- 4.14. .'. 3 0:.»

‘r‘ $*
A, a.

‘. , --.~ ~ . . -°- N .2} 7,” ., ,, : v,
te§ching. E 303% gal Hlii alga tuat yam can dse {3953 13

K» W. «L ‘2, v: «v “I" -4 w: 2?, 3“". a"! run " “r . * . , ';" . ‘ x“?-
lehb wﬂ¢85¢8 ﬂuitétiﬂo u& aparﬁﬂimtﬂ yauf intereﬁt ﬂﬂd

 

Sineeralyg




BOTANICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA. INC.
PLANT SCIENCE BULLETIN

SYDNEY s. GREENFIELD, EDlTOR
RUTGERs—THE STATE UNIVERSITY
4O RECTOR STREET
NEWARK 2, NEw JERSEY

12 January 1960

Miss Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, N. Y.

Dear Miss Stevens:

I am not entirely sure that Plant Science Bulletin is the logical
place to discuss your program, since our readers are mainly botanists
engaged in teaching and research on the University level, and probably
have little or no contact with animal experimentation. Your efforts
would seem more suitably carried in "The American Biology Teacher",
"Turtox News“, “The A.I.B.S. Bulletin", and "Science“. which reach
the audiences you want. ‘

Nevertheless, because of the importance of your project, and
because some of our readers may be engaged in training high school
teachers, we might print a short article to let the readers know
of your existence, and how they might receive your publications.

If you think there is any value to be derived from this,
it would be useful for us if you would prepare a short statement.
perhaps of a few paragraphs, stating your aims, etc.. and other
information that you would want our readers to have. We could then
see if it could be used in 29.3.13.

Sincerely yours,

I Sydney ’
Editor

S. Greenfield

 




'M. 5"9112111131 1;. (11111111111: 13
2' 1*0-...31.01° 111‘? ”EB-111053
1111.41.11 mv 111:1}.ty

(11‘ 11“”1“.

a»: _, _ . pg 1 :1
: ., -. v’» m 1 : . 141 f 9: . 71. 1
1-. {Ti-1:1. 441. e ".11.. £33531 8.}. J. L (1 a

a; tha ﬂau'york Loimﬂical Qarﬁen has

"13:11:13 31' write 4011 11111201111132.1111 1.1111 possibility

11:111. 2311311111011 111.111.11.11 giving 311111.111 to 1119;111:112

1m» 01. 1.1111 1...: 1.13. .-- 1.11:1: 1.3...1‘1. 151315, 1.1111 ticu3111133
151-111-1121 51.11 111.. .1 11.1101... 1.10.111“? 111113.113... “3111111111111:

111..._L..: 11-1 1.1.1" 111, 11):: 1.1 11113.5 1.111% 1.1111 111.211.1131: 3.11 1.11::
V1 1.113;. :i.;1s.:.'-91";.11111111 21.11 1311-: 1.1111111113111111 of 0113;133:311, 1:11:11. 1111-;-
Lmim 31511.

1....) 1411113 113311 1111;111:115 01' 1:11:11: 111. :1111‘ reaeu‘xé‘. InformatiQE-‘r
9:111:1613‘318 11:51.31 11111111 “113.103.1311 11:11 1.1111 subﬁwct. :1 11111., at

1
1111-1111111. “ “113315.132 1 :1 11112111111 1:111:12? mating; repreésan‘t 1112.3.an 11:.er1
31:15.1. 1.11.1; .2..1.'c:1:311c“1.11 1‘0 111* 111111.11 111111 5113* 111.111.111.1111-11... Ci.

1.111211 11:11“: :2. 11:}. 11113.1 :13 1 :11. . 1.... 11211111113. 11:. ll be 11111711 available
”5"": 131:: 1".111611111’1‘: “3.1.1 11:: 111111111 1-141 1’ 41.11.111.11 mwvi 131113 1112111. 1. 3 “ﬁrst
.1313 'i £1.;:1*11 :11" i212 .3131. 111111111 <1“, :11. 711111331. 31111112. 30,600 (.2113.

1

11111511 ”1:.- 1:11 ﬂlstrlnnmd 11311113 1.111.111.111113ta

1 ~- 1
w@ 3091
‘3’ - fin n - A;
.1. {“33” 31 1.3111“ 853:1

11-1111711 32.11 11.1 grin-g: 33111.13 3012 111113 11131116 be 31:111-113.” U3.
. C"

ﬁt” I: 16‘

.1."
J-
G
1

81111311913,

Chiﬁsﬁina Stevens
P1115 12.11.11.112
$3an .1

 




The Animal‘belfere Inetiﬁnbe, on the advice of scientiste’enﬂ educatore'
who share its belief thet animals in school ehould always be kept in the.
:meximum possible good health and comfort, bee prepared e new free illustrated
manual for high echool teachers entitled “Humane Biology Projects“. The manual,
which will be available upon request to toechere on April 1, includee represenoetive
biology projects for teaching and for helping etudente with their projects for
Science Fairs.

I ”Humane Biology Projects" was prepared with the aesietenco of botanists,
zoologiete, phyeiologiste, ecologists and others who agree with the Inetitute's
position that the constantly increasing numbers of cruel experiments being carried '
out by untrained youths mean not only'unnecee sery'euffering on the part of animals 1‘
but demoralizetion of young people at a time in their lives when every effort should
be made to develnp humane feelings of sympathy, kindness and reeponeibility.

The following rules concerning science teaching in the public schools have been '

adopted by the Florida State Department of Public Instinction, and it ie hoped other

States will econ follow suit:

"1) Animals being observed by students should always be maintained in the

maximum possible condition or teamz, comfort and well-being.

"2) no vertebrate animal used for primary or secondary'echool teaching may

be eubjected to any experiment or procedure which interferes with its
normal health or causes it pain or distress."

Another manual-which the Institute provides free to teachers, teachers’ colleges
and libraries ion 36-page illustrated booklet entitled “First Aid and Care of Small
Animals“. This bookletluhich is intended to increase the student's understanding are
the need of wild animals and to inculcate a humane attitude toward them, was first
published in 1955, and the fourth edition appeared in 1959. Tb date, eporoximately
32, 000 free copies have been distributed. V

Copies of both ”Homene Biology Projects“ and ”First Aid and Care of Small Animals“.

may be obtained by'writing to the Institute, 22 East 17th Street, ﬂew York 3, New‘Iork.

 




Single copies ara available withcut charge to taachara, librarians and others

who mark in t&@ aduaational fiﬁld; others may purchase at cost: "Humans Biology

Projacts“ $.29; “First ﬁid and Cara of Small Animalﬁ $.35. Copies in bulk will
be provided without charge to these in teachers' collegea who give the manuals

to praapective teachars.

 




\wa HI" ”“ A $7 / 5/ /f; g“ I

Mr.Naramore announced several days ago that a progress report orthe work of the
AnimaﬁWelfare Institute would be presented by me at this meeting, but actually until
this very morning this report was going to be given by Christine Stevens, President
of the Institute, who is well known to many of you. This morning she found that the
sprained ankle whiCh has kept her confined to her home for the past two weeks was
still too painful to walk about on, so I unfortunately had to come alone. hrs.

Stevens asked me to express to you all her regret that she could not be with you,

and sent her best wishes for a successfuland fruitful conference.

I
3

Some of ydu may remember that it was at a meeting of the New York State Humane
Association--the one held in Buffalo in Septemoer,l9Sl--that hrs.Stevens announced
the organization of the new Animal Welfare Institute, incorporated only two months
earlier, and explained to you its axis aims and.objectives. I will summarize these
aims and objectives very briefly before reporting on the work accomplished in the

nearly nine years since that meeting.

 

vhile the Institute is interested in eveny phase ofzanikal welfare, it is particu—
larly concerned with humane safeguards in the use of animals for res arch and medicine.
The Prospectus for the Institute prepared in 1951 stated that fields of investigation
would include the replacement of higher mammals by much lower forms of life; the re-
placement of chronic experiments by properly conducted sacrifice experiments,with a view
to reducing the number of painful experimentssthe substitution of chemicaland physical

methods,whenever possible,for biological methods in experiments or tests,and the avoid-

h.

w:

ance of unnecessary repetition of experiments.§iIts Information Reports stress the
need for raising standards in all fields--housing, care, procuremeit and treatment of
i .
laboratory animals-~not only for thessakdbf the animals but also for the sake of
. é

scientific accuracy and for the reductiaiof unnecessary repetition of experiments.

The first Information Report was published in December,l@Sl.

 




was published
.anaiﬂwﬁnﬁgr gtion Report appaanede

it now appears five times annually,w1thftheexception of July—August, and is sent to
approximately 12,000 persons and organizations. Snnce a COpy is sent to every humane
society, I assume that most of you present are familiar with it.

The first major publication of the Institute, a 36-page manual for use of the
men and women who take care of laboratory animals, was pﬁhkkxhnd completed in 1953.
Entitled ”Basic Caretf nxperimental ﬂni als",it {is written in non— ~technical language,
and with simple illustrations; ' ¢{5;:”2;.j " ' ~‘ ' .“7 7” '*<3?”*ﬁﬂe?@8¥3“$iona
ﬁendingghandlln",hnu81n   #555‘~ is based on the premiseihat
both scienceénd.humanitarianism are served by keeping laboratory animals contented
and healthy:‘ This manual is distributed free upon request to scientific institutions
only. A revised edition,which enlarged the manual to 68 pages,was
published in 1955f Last year alone,approximmtely 5,000 copies we1 e distributed to
laboratories in all parts of this ccuntny and 38 foreia gn countries. We were happy to
grant permission to have it translated.into Japanese and German; editions in those
languages are now in use.

Our continuing visits to laboratories made it clear that there was an urgent need
for a publication to assist scientific institutions in planning their animal quarta's;
we were informed that there was no place in this country to which a laboratory could
turn for advice on planning comfortable,humane and efficient animal housing. It dten
developed that an institutioi woild.comple eta construction of a costly building only
to find thus later that it was totally inadequate; frequently the new accompdations
for the animals were less comfortable fer-the—enésmés than the old——and nothing could

L; 5.15% repro 09
be donefbecause allihe construction money'had been exhausted. 'We decided to 68ﬁ§§§¥ ’3

in loose—leaf form)a collection of plans, construction details,etc égggﬁkwe had seen

in our visits, which seemed particularly good, a) that others might be helped in plan-
ning comfortable quarters for their expen.mental animals. This publication,entitled
“Comfortable Quarters for laboratory Animals", was ;x4~wmauw 3: issued in l95hgaad-

supplements aregirepared.periodically and sent to all who requested the original manual.

This manual)also is provided free upon request, to scientific institu ions only. Ezaiw~
1.-..1 -w,:~60 sepieniware requested.

 




The Institute believes that an enormous amount of work remains to be done in
bringing the care and housiig of experimental animals up even to bare minimum stan-

i .‘
dards. Some progresshaslaeen made, butthe Institute will continue to work to reduce

unnecessary sufferiné nOW'beig widely inflicted upon these animals. It will continue 4C)
to a? provide free, or at minimal cost, information and.educational material on
huuene and practicalanimal care,handling and_housing, and 2) to voice criticism
of callous, wasteful andwzruel practices in scientific institutions.
As all who have read.our Information Reports know well, the Institute from

the very i!!! first has vigorously opposed xii animalSeizure legislation which is

designed to compel humane societies to break their trust to animals and to their

supporters by sending aninnls from their shelters into experimental laboratories

. "Lk K i-
.for c experimentation. we feelthat these shelters were erected to pro-

tect animals. And we feel that to i send the animals they have taken into their
custody to a laboratory for use in a painful experiment completely undermines the
ethical basis upon which all humane work is founded.0bviously humane organizations

have a moral obligation to resist such legislation.

 




Another problem with which the Institute has been increasingly concerned is

the it? fT%Z;i trend toward cruelty among school children, in thegame of ”science
3
teaching". There is evidence that meny'high school students have been encouraged to
perform.experiments involving surgery or stress on live animals in their schools
and_even at home, in improvised and unsupervised laboratories. we first called atten-
tion to this in our Information Report of May—Junekl955, and have.cmitinued to attack
%

this problem.vigorously. I am happy tops able to announce that the Institute has just
completed, after consultation with educaters and scientists who share our views, a
neW'manual ﬁnrprepared especially for high school teachers of biology. Entitled "humane
BiologyProjects“,our publication is a hB-page illustrated booklet which suggests a
few of themyriad humane methods SEES; may be used to teach high school biology.lti.s
designed to aid the teacher in developing in his students original thinking,pains-
taking observation, understanding of scientific procedures, and respect for the rights
and feelings of all forms of life which possess sensibility. "Humane Biology Projects"
will be distributed without charge to teachers upon request. I have a supply of des-
criptive leaflets with me. Ne should.be happy to have you give one orxnore to yoir
local school superintendent or high school principals; extra<30pies,as many as you
like,are of course available.

Ourc>ther publication in the field of humane education-—"First ﬁid and Care
of Small animals”—-was prepared for use in primary and sedondary schools. Since its

publication in 1955, approximately 35,000 free copies have been sent out upon request

to teachers,librarians,scout headers and others who wormwith young people.
3

The Institute has also long been interested inadoption of humane slaughtering meth-

ods,and since January,l953,has published information concerning developments in this
fieldgiewitsclnﬁermaticaneperts. Testimony on behalf of the Federal humane slaughter
bill was presented in Congress by Institute representatives in 1956, 1957 and A958.

0n the State level,the Institute favors the uniform State Humane Slaughter Act prepared
by the Council of State Governments,and approved by the American Humane Association,the

Humane Society of the United States and other humans groups.

 




In addition to the major areas I have just mentioned, the Institute along with
other humane organizations has during the past nine years been interested in a great

many other fields of h umane activity:

Sonservation, including oil pollution; the threat to wildlife and human health
arising out of the increased use of pesticides and insecticides;
the protection of our wild horses in the west,etc.

Improved transnortion of animals, including haikingxmﬁxmmn bettering of condi-

tions under which monkeys are shipped by air

J
I

Humane methods of trapping, as well as whaling and sealing.

Ihis is a brief summary of our work to date. If there are any points which I

have not covered, or if on some paints you would like additional information, I hope

you will letrne know. I shall try to answer your questions to the best of my ability.

Thank you very much for this opportunity to tell you something of“the work of the

bnimalﬁelfare Instittte.

 




7171'; 11111111311" J 31133
Lang 111321.311 111.111
Redford; 332 fork

3323 2332,

7 23 33231233132m11Lh 2 lot of ma 721 abuut the InsLi. Lute, as well as
the 110131L chnd 311 3313102 30120-3: 1E1L 33 313333133 wrwc

1L 33333 L2 33 LhaL 13333 33 30113.2 3303 for L30 articles. 30L about the

133L1L3L2 31213311111, bee 232 23 dau't 3233 2Lout 3eLLing publicity for Guru
533111113, 1.11.171 111:1, 1.1 32-117011111. 31.1.11. GL3

. .. " 17173111.. an .1‘31? 1:17;» WW1 3071 13112 .13 1.12 ' " :3» _ ~ I enclose
an 3233 i~tv 2 72L13r 53:1 .‘3 J31jvwrurr 772 Z 3~1113 333, 233 society, re~
. 1, ‘_ . “" 1“.“ -_ I ,3}. .t "7. .’ ."1 .’ . .7 . n
ferring L; .43 -133 1 Mwa.21Ld, 21131 231 1301‘34 due to jgcotes 3 from us ﬁnd
'7 ..,—. .. .... 1. M 1“ ..: ,1- ~. '1 .1 . - . f, r: 1 q';
otn3r 233333 "1113”. 1 3733 3231932 dbr 2133. :33 1211»121:;31111 was for th3
blolugy L313221, 27Ln 30 3311323. +03'r111d and 33733 inermmaan borrewec 7393
:W '55! hr“. 'E‘Lye lav-'1‘. ”‘1?“¥Y'r- n -“'.rhv ~* w I.“ r). n - 2» --\. 1'“ n t
2 2331331 m.»1, t3 3. . 1 ng13~ 17r32 2 ”vin1 31L and 333M1L 133 cat 0
~ ‘p ‘ ‘ n .3 ’ .. r" .=. ’ \‘ F“ - . ~"1IO .- .. w _ ‘ v. I t} ‘ ' . C ‘. .
I’U CID V(‘r . 14.x .1 1.: LL17; 11. 3.75%) 3. 1.." Ir” 3 ”~55 " K3. v-.*3 Li} 17. 57111C4‘xn‘t Q 5 . 5» ~ {.3 3:13 13.}6111: (gone

211 L323 LE 133 .1113; 1L 1133.30 n+2 *1 377.2 in 311132311113 7:13 3211.0:- 7. 77131173537011.

t

'i

have 2 13L1_21 333 333d. L2 :est 3.L3m -123 1333, of 211 the ' 3321, the
(0113:1111). :11‘12-11. 413(13116 {if 17.111‘11 12131.1. :13 33:“? 813.72“ C? ‘tiﬂ 1335' En: 13311131111111 r323
73L3 L33 13332373 2 2133: g 223 .230L1313 acceunt 3f 2 young bay in h730 3 istrict,
2233 12, 302' 05 2 doctor, Lbs 303 iirsL 23133 in L33 3701023 divisisn of a

ClFmCP LauLWLL in his 21h23] ‘13“? CL recﬁntly with $55 prajecLs. He tﬂak L30
3333; $3131.13333b 71 2 3233 C13L~in-nﬁ 2 33337; 27 both 1113 :23 and v c:k., and
0L3331133 L337? 33r327 3332210? far L33 3232:. 122 0223 had 2 i»iir r3o30sh beLLem
rocL“1ﬁ on 5 b02rd sLudded ui‘h nails, 223 .217h333 12333 233 h 33 3233 cf L33 mesh,
233 L3 the 311113'13 33: 72311333 a L? 1291333” 22 Lh1t the 33123 received 3130L373
shocks 2L 32321311r intervals Leg 236 313? L ior H11ree weeks. The bqy renorted
th2t L33 1130323 33333 11rank mare Lh.3 twice 23 3133 vadka 23 Lha normr. 30333.
32 2213 23 “21 2323 in the ALA Journa 1 "about 2 323112r experimenL canducted with
C113“.11:Lhig 1531313 11th the grr-L 2L 12V1Ly, 233 as Lhaugh.this boy really
h2d 3333 a £323 thing indaed, in n33213321y t3rL31ing a mouse b. (Granted that Lh3re
223 much 30333 Lort1 33, but this is Larture nanethaless, mental more Lhan physical.)
Why 2 praject 23733 merely'repeated 323 already published in the 2%? Journal

T

shaulg 373 3 prize 73 not explained.

"tf‘
Th3 333331.' L1 ,,11* 2%33L L23 7' . 3 ”1“ 3112 boy 1. also 73337, 230 we
me

217333xxhibf.t is "STAR '58", a 301y of which1is enclosed with portions under-
17333.:Q (A I 32 utter, to 20 Lo L32chers 233 23k Lor our scientiiic wubllcarlans,
13 2133 33313336 git expla ins our atiitude L332rd eLLFrlmmnts in hxgh 3320313.)

02 L23 262733 2f scientis 3 and 233 3 Lara 2113 3, we've just arenarad 2 322321
L0 L1 3:331ribut3d free L3 high :02021 Ln'uhzrs entitled "Humane 81311222 Erogects“.
TL'S 233 in -2!13§ farm 233 33 ape L3 L2V3 it 332 QF aﬁcut 323 lat. 123 3313
3L} 33 3113713 +"a3'33 have far 333 73 337323;! 233 s 603023? '3303 3 is "First Aid
232 £333 .3 ‘32.: 73;3213“, 3333 3S,OGO free 33313“ of 3379 h 32V3 21r32dy L233
333L 33L :.~133213333, 11hr1311§§5agrgutcgggyfxsigngongggi ”72% ”132.13'3333333
323212. 1 .1171 3333 333 un33r

 




.. 2 ..
an 1101: to c: :11: f0: 51131231332 1.15.13 11111111111111,1111:.

33333161, 12213 3333 for 1111111111111 3133 3.5.” 133-33: 55031:. 11:11:13.3. 1‘13 11:31 11:13 “‘1. 311,13
fmm t3: 3711131111333 1301121111“: 1.13115 C121 1:33 “1111111131.: 35‘. 5;: 2.: 12.2.: :13 1511111133. (13.531133 1’13 5:13:53
333 $033333, 03: nf’our main purposes is t3 5m3r3ve the lot of 331331 3-3:; in
resemch. '11”: 21.1.1133 1311151531133 5.31:0 1111111111111: £111.33 in 1133:13111m3t11 1 1.133-15133133
only'which I'm sending under 33p333t3 covar 3303u83 they 333 30 333vy,3 m1113d
"B3310 C333 of 11.313311111133131]. 41115113113" 31:11:. "11.“ 1.113311133111111 clatter: 1.01: 1.131303315310391
Animals". The first ia'written in'verv simple English, with 11333t3131133, be»
C3353 it is 333133: for use by the 33.331.31retaker; 33 urovid: 33335113L5t3timn
with 330333 303133 80 that each caret31:cr 333 have one for h:11331f. M3 133 will
see, it h s a section for each (:01 31031131131333 ....;1‘::~or31:.or'1 311213.333... Th3: 31:11:11,

”Co: 1fortahl3 u3rt3r3 fbr Laboratuny 313.1 , is a collectimn 0f £133: 31333,
etc. for the 1:311 of 5:11.033 17.1.1.3nning constrzmtian of new animal quarters, 321? 1‘3-
modelling. ‘33 :1 3:13 3131 Der iuut1tut an, 333 on: to archita eta if 333333.

If in our 31113.1 33 333 3.5 3333t333 0? 3333 construcoiom 333321 of 33133 we
approve, 33 333 313353353n to reprcuuce 53; 32 5333 out 33331333333 from 3533

to time to all who 3: 33d the original L133: . we have been told that 3333 is
the only 31:03 53 th3 cogntry'uh1re 5:131“ ti: 3 of 33 33133 can 33 obtain3d, 311
the f1cts in :1: 33333. Last 13 1 ue‘naa i333 ibuteé aZout 50% ””onfor1nmle
Quartars for 301310 ﬁnira :13“ 3nd 1,00E ‘Wa sic C313 3f?13 -333t31 1115 1mg”

in.
all upon 3331;3:t

- , .. . - a .. ., _.... . . ., , , .. . .,1 .. .5 1, 1. w . :1 .1" .3... . .
T138 V333,: {2.11.151 ; ._ 1 ~..1'. . ;:. ‘ . i . .1 .1. 1'; 1. 1;; til??? 131157211 .15.}??? 3-..”???5f‘i3ved
1 , '1 “ ‘ 11-}r- “ . .L - v ”f. 1- A9 '. ' u'v 5%,: ”‘4 ,~" .' ' r 1' "'w 1 P? v' . V,’ 1
handllng in 13331-303133. 1..- 1 31. 51 13, .11 11.1 m . ant 333 r1gnLL'but 093-
° . w. .-.:,;."1-- “-5. , '9 . .,5 . ._.,__ ._ ', . ° . . . 1.,.,. ‘1
ditlons 33r1 333311 1333 13. . *1 1. -Ju-13 1 Q .3. .1. 3;: 1-3333 33b~
i I' ": 4"? \ f. x' 1: 1.4- ' aw V V gvy r ‘1‘ -. 1‘ a 1 . «1, 1* gr. . ‘ v _« m J5}
orttories 3333: qua 13:3 03 .111-. --33 1. 333336 331339333 311 an: 113 303 33
a, h g.
. 3__ if: a ,. ‘ -.~ . ”A“ .a .3 .3 : w 1".“ . ¢ ¢ 1. 1 3” ' r _ .2 "1 . 3 . “1 .3 ,., a, a ‘ '
badly; T33 ”mafdﬁj 31t1133 .3 33303331 33.1u 5 333333333: 13 13130.3 311 the
.1 3, .
‘ .

.- u..- .1. 1. ..‘1 v 7‘
fECtS he IEO “11.1.1311: LIFE ‘06 (had 1.16.1”: V9511: “1.05” 3111‘}?! 1...... .1 173:»1111’7’ 11?“ YES/.1:- .: ﬁrmuﬁﬂ

3 1
us. The news 333 33 335Ch 1713 833033 5r33 33 a.-;y;ﬁ 30918 hang 13

introduction 5” (3”“MBCS 3f 3 bill ”3:317:ﬁ 3333 hit 3191“ the 11333 .
133.5’33 351$h0ut 3:1 11-“ tiwn~~th3 En‘f.: 131 11t1-1.1
SOCiIWﬁ.Ji L-n51c cﬁ$1n;L 35311: ‘ V::ﬁﬁx:1 3ffb 31(3331, "11 a? 33
813.363 b3ing r.~1 h: 31T< as :1 1 .7 ’« :2 *3“? :3trmn: wroup in C 1:

mantion33, the 3132-1 .11 :3. '13hner-(.h1 33 :3 aha -31.: 3: the
public1;}‘131g',,;;g;'§_j:.1(;;'§_ 33. '1" .1! :3; LCtCII“ 65131111”: Q

1 113.115.1111 .111. 11.3.11 3011 1:. .. :13 11 111 515211311 311111 @3315???”
it will mot be 33 iarm3(:hle one: 333 *ic‘u CiIVEQL i;u0 it. Liter VGE RSVE
finished, if You woulﬁ like to talk ha 33 121.. $3333n3 I 3333 hath 333 1ﬁﬁ 50%
would enqu it. 333 never alnr‘seeks D@?SOH31 publétﬁiy} but 13 @339? f0? 33?
163331t3 reach as much of the r3ading public 33 30335313, 30 3511 be 3 31 3:
meet with you 33:33ver you SEY-

E’étiz 333331: regards t3 you

COI‘diéﬂ. 1:?"

 




SSOCZlTEﬂﬁs Al” SOCIEMIES
The‘world Almanac Queetienneire
(a) Infermetien fer the 1960 eﬁition

Name 0f Organization...ﬁnimsl;Welfare.Inetituﬁe......................
Jul 12 1
Date Eetebliehed..... 3’ ’ 951

OOOOOOOOOOOOOuulooonooo~00 tiooco-oooooouoooaab.

22 East 17th 5treet, Hew'lark 22, H.‘Y.

ﬁéﬁitl. ﬁeadquarters..uuuu.”Hue”...“nun...”..............u

Christine Stevens
Name; 9f ffaﬁident or Governimz OffiCialooootaousoot-ooooeooootoooooo
Estelle Breper, 22 East 17th Street

31:900..oooouoocooooooonotoo000.000.00.000.

Meme enj Address of Secret

2"

If not erevieuely listed in thw'herld Almanac, please explain eﬁms and activities:
To premete the humane treatment of animals and the prevention of

cruelty to animals, and charitable, scientific and educational
eurposee incidental thereto.

FurniShefi b}?ooooovooooo000.90.900.0000000.0}an 16, 19&

 

 




(Mailing to 3,000 EXporimental Biologists - Week of Nov. 12th

Enclosures: Prospectus
Brochure)

Deal” L’P.....--3

In View of your work in the field of experimental
biology, the enclosed material rolating to the recently-
formeé Animal welfaro Institute should merit your
attention.

Attached you will find a booklet iv which wo
havo tried to set forth clearly our aims and plans.
You may have some ideas about them.

Your commonts and Opinions, and any augoestions
which you might wish to make, would be valuable and
very much appreciated.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

Rama
Instituteion
Address

City

(Enclosures: Prospectus
Brochure

 




 

Animals’ , B er}: F Mend r

( IT’S not often that we get to talk to,

let alone think about, anybody in
the animal—welfare ﬁeld, but not long
ago We spent an instructive hour with
Major Charles Westley Hume, of Lon-
don, founder and secretary—general of
the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare. We met him at the apartment
of Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, who is
founder and president of this country’s
Animal Welfare Institute, and pretty
much the Major’s American counter-
part. Mrs. Stevens briefed us in her foyer.

“UFAW, as we call it, isn’t too big a-

group, but it’s responsible for the clas-
sic work ‘The UFAW Handbook on the
Care and Management of Laboratory
Animals,’ so it’s enormously impor-

7 '"‘*‘”‘~"~-‘?*-“3‘w , .méw‘wzgwwerWWeN“-*~W
E
e

,jtant,” she said. “Major Hume wrote
Ethe ﬁrst chapter and also the appendix,

5 ‘A Conspectus of the Elements of Statis-

tical Analysis.’ I don’t understand the
title of the appendix, and I can’t under-
stand a word of its text, either, but
I’m sure that’s terribly important, too.
He’s also the author of ‘The Status of
Animals in the Christian Religion,’ a
book that is one of UFAW’s best-sellers.
F ougasse, of Punch, illustrated it.
Fougasse is president of UFAW, which,
like our Institute, doesn’t oppose re:

search on animals but wants it done"

humanely.”

A moment later, Major Hume, a
trim, white-haired, white—mustached
retired signals ofﬁcer of seventy—three,

told us he had just been to Washington,

where he read a paper on ‘vivisection be-
fore seven hundred delegates to an
Animal Care Panel sponsored by the
National Society for hIedical Research.
“It’s my ﬁrst trip to your country, and

.;a._c;.---:%~z~:» ﬁrmware-x4» : '

" “4 Ag" e». 5‘- en...

ﬁn ...¢',qu,§._ ~ ‘4’“? c . »~
nﬂ‘

I’m having a delightful time,” he saiid.’ '
“In your capital, I met a. lady with
Whom I marched in a suﬁragettev‘pro-
cession in LOndon the- year King
George the Fifth was crowned.” The
Major, a bachelor who liveswith two
sisters, served in the First World War,
and then busied himself as an examiner
in the British Patent Oﬂice, but his
heart was elsewhere,,and had been
since he was aﬂlad. In 1926, accord- ,

ingly, he organized an animal-welfare y' .
society at the University of London," 7 l

Where, earlier, he had taken a bache-‘f
lor’s degree in science, and'in 1939 he I
expanded this outﬁt into UFAW.- “We
have members at ten British universi—
ties and a sister society in West Ber?
lin,” he said. “And we belong to I
the World Federation for the Pro-A

tection of Animals, 'Which has meme"

ber'societies in forty countries. We call 7.
it WOOFPA, for short. There are,

shouts of derision at our committee

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meetings whenever anybody says
‘WOOFPA,’ but if you don’t abbreviate
you’ve got a mouthful. WOOFPA has not
yet taken a formal stand on space ani—
mals, but I feel personally that a rather
disproportionate amount of attention
has been paid to them. Of that ﬁrst pair
of monkeys you sent into space, one
Baker, the Navy monkey was hu-
manely prepared for the trip, and is alive
to tell the tale. The one that died—-
Able, the Army m onkey—looked
scared and miserable throughout the
episode. I blush for my fellow—soldiers,
but Able was not humanely prepared.”
\Ve asked Major Hume to tell us
about UFAW’s work. “Not long ago,
we helped develop a machine that elec-
trocutes animals by passing a current di—
rectly through the brain,” he said. “The
previous method had been to put a
metal collar around an animal’s neck
and a metal plate at his hindquarters.
The current would shoot through his
body, and for twelve seconds or so he
would remain conscious, and in great
pain, but he couldn’t scream, because he
was paralyzed. Not that electrocution
of any sort is always the answer, mind
you. For mink farms, for instance, we

_-v'u.. r ”a. —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Quid/e, Doctor, there’s a mméle in me ﬂowery!”

advocate nitrogen, which is very hu-
mane. Also, electrocution can some-
times burn the pelts.”

“I didn’t know that,” interposed
Mrs. Stevens. “But no matter how they
kill mink on the farms, it’s not as bad as
how they’re trapped in the wilds.”

“Absolutely,” said Major Hume.
“That’s why we recommend to people
that if they’re going to buy mink coats,
they buy ranch mink. We’ve done
some other rather important researches.
One, for example, on the ecology of
the wild rabbit, which, I’m happy to say,
resulted last year in the prohibition of
the use of steel leg-hold traps in Eng-
land. I also recently administered a
joint committee on the ecology of the
otter, and we are now trying to reﬁne a
perfectly humane rat poison. I have al-
ways been very fond of rats. In France,
during the war, there were lots of them
in my dugout. I used to get very friend-
ly with those wild rats. They Would
climb into my bed sometimes for
warmth. I was noticing just the other
day that in my book on religion there
are fourteen references to rats in the in-
dex.” VVe asked l‘vfajor Hume r, :.,- his
sisters felt on this subject. “Oh, they’re

whales—by electricity

very fond of rats, too,” he
said cheerfully. Mrs. Ste-
vens kept mum.

The Major told us that
there is little difference
between the British and
American attitudes toward
animal welfare. “I was
very much impressed by
the humaneness of the ma—
jority attending the Panel
in Washington,” he said.
“What with breeders, cage
manufacturers, and good-
ness knows who else, animal
experimentation has become
a fantastic industry. An at—
torney for the National
Society for Medical Re-
search predicted that in ten
years the laboratory-animal
industry will be larger than
the food-animal industry.
Think of itl The Purina
Chow people have persuad-
ed the 1960 Panel to meet
in St. Louis. I hope to have
some information to report
then on whales and bull—
fights. Bullﬁghting would
diminish considerably if the
British and American tour-
ists wouldn’t always buy all
the most expensive seats.
And the whaling situation is
just frightful. We’ve devel-
oped a humane way to kill
but the whal-

ers won’t adopt it.”

“Whales are such lovely creatures
that I don’t like to have them killed
even Izmnmu’ly,”

Nlrs.

Stevens said.

 

 

 

W, e W

 




Our 14th Off 7 . . .

CHRISTINE STEVENS, President
of the Animal Welfare Institute,
whose indafatigible efforts in behalf
of Humane Slaughter Legislation,
and every humane cause is truly in-
spiring.

VELMA B. JOHNSON, better
known as “Wild Horse Annie” who
practically single-handedly made our
House of Representatives and Senate
pass (HR 2725) which means that
our wild horses of the West will no
longer wantonly be killed, tortured
and butchered for dog and cat food.

TO THE NEWSPAPERS AND
MAGAZINES who joined in the cru-
sade to help “Wild Horse Annie”, and
to the many many humanitarinas
who wrote to their Congressmen in
support of this Humane Bill. Bless
them all. Our mustangs will now be
saved.

TO THE MANAGEMENT OF
THE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING.
Its tower beacon was turned off from
April 15th to June 1st for the sake
of the birds. Migrating birds are con-
fused by the stationary beacon and,
when clouds are low, sometimes they
lose their sense of direction and
crash into the building. Who says
that BIG enterprises doesn’t have a
heart?

DRAYTON ST‘RAYER of Kasco.
This noble gentleman recently sent
dog books in Braille to the Second
Sight Guide Dog For The Blind.

WILLIAM ROCKE‘FELLER,
President of the ASPCA. His dedi-
cated devotion to the interests of all
animals and humans is legendary.

PEYTON HAWES DUNN, Secre-
tary of WARDS (Welfare of Ani-
mals used for Research in Drugs and

4

Surgery). This charming lady and
her able organization have evolved a
practical humane way for the care of
animals to be? used in research.

HARRY MILLER, Direct01,
Gaines Dog Reseaich Center, auth01,
syndicated columnist — always has
time for a DOG gone problem.

CAPT. WILL JUDY. He has made
National Dog Week a symbol of kind-
ness, education and love for man’s
best friend.

ROBERT G. GREY Whose sin-
ce1ity in helping the cause of Hu-
mane Slaughtering of Animals has
actually made himself a crusader in
this w01thy flight.

PHILIP GLASER, who has de-
voted a lifetime to helping every lit-
tle stray cat to find a good home. His
love of all animals has always pre-
ceded his own inteiests

DR. R. E. REBRASSIER, piesi-
dent of the Ameiican Veterina1y
Medical Association, for stimulating
interest in students to develop tech-

, niques fo1 the betterment of the ani-

mal kingdom;

FRANK E. DITTRICH, Publisher
of All— Pets Magazine. He is constant-
ly lending his great talents to the pet
industry. The public is grateful for
his ceaseless efforts for betterment
of the entire industry.

JOSEPH TRAFICANTI, noted at-
torney, who carries his love for ani-
mals into the court room to fight for
pet owners.

0 J .
:2: :;: .s .1:

A SPECIAL PRAYER for every-
thing that flies, walks, crawls or
swims.

 




 

OUR COVER: By ALBERT, noted Petographer. The kitten on the cover was one of three
orphans left in a shopping bag hanging on the door of The Greenwich Village Humane
League. With no nursing mother available at The League, the kittens were taken to The Ellin
Prince Speyer Animal Hospital where a foster mother took over. When they were old enough
to be weaned, they were returned to The League for adoption. The foster mOther was adopted
by a family in Connecticut, and the brorher of the cover kitten was taken by Carol Lynne,
Managing Director of The Greenwich Village Humane League. His name is Peewee and he
has grown to exceptional beauty. The other two also found their way to loving homes, thanks
to the League.

 

 

 

FALL ISSUE — 1959 Vol. I, No. 4

OUR PET WORLD

Published by PENTHOUSE PUBLISHERS INC.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE: 240 West 75th Street, New York 23, N. Y. —— TRafalgar 7-4006
I

A Quarterly Publication
Dedicated to Human-Animal Relationship
S '1‘ A F F —— Editors: H. White, Dean White; Associate Editors: Virginia Cloud, Ethel Brower,

Richard _H. Roffman, Captain William Sanders, L. J. LeOnard, Blanche Wolfram, Louis D. Hogan;
Adi'ertismg Director: Casey White; Circulation Manager: H. Keller; Photo Editor: Hope Sanders.

OUR PET WORLD: $2.00 per year — $3.50 for 2 years —— $5.00 for 3 years.
Foreign countries, $1.50 extra each year; Canada $1.00 extra each year.
Permission to use must be solicited and given in writing.

CONTENTS

Our Hats Off To: . . . . . . . . . . . . the Editors
ASPCA Awards Medal to Missile Monkey Baker Louis D. Hogan
Fight Juvenile Delinquency By Teaching

Love of Pets . . . . . . . . . . . . Allan Levey, Jr.
Two Pups For Two Kids . . . . . . . Gelaine Camelon
The Greenwich Village Humane League . . . Virginia Cloud
Dogs Useful In Charitable Drives . . . Raymond Thompson
Portrait Of The Guppy . . . . . . . . Lawrence Konig
Pet Ocelots . . . . . . . . . . . Catherine Cisin
What the Best Dressed Dogs Will Wear This Fall . . Jean Dwyer
The Basset . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carl E. Smith
Wild Horse Annie . . . . . . . . . . . H. White
Your Cats — My Cats — Our Cats . . . . Blanche Wolfram
A Protest Against Spraying . . . . . . . . Alfred G. E tter
Be Kind To Animals . . . . . . . . . Helene Brower
Pied Parakeets . . . . . . . . . Frances Pahrlander
The Lap of. Luxury . . . . . . . Allen F. Ruﬁin, Jr.
A Dozen Dog Care Do’s . . . . . Capt. Will Judy

What About Dogs and Cats Used in Research?
Peyton H awes Dunn
HSUS Convention Slated for New York . . . . Mary Canto

 




« i _ ﬁy PAUL FAIRLEIGH, Prizes-Scimitar Staff Writer
.3" Pml's'in \is again being sprayed on Memphis homes;
but‘the-rplant test-control division of the U. S. Depart‘?
ment of. Agriculture is diluting the poison ’(dieldrin)
. 25% in hopes of avoiding a public outcry that stopped
the spraying here March 18.
plan- Landrum, state super-’ ,

w," ,i'sbf-the "federal pest controlljnalma Conservation Department
dimg‘im; :refused today to say is quoted‘as saying the‘pOlsor
tit,"ﬁ_,jggj,iareas of Memphis were program 15’ “Sickening.“
ff,,'”'f{.§'jsprayed to eradicate the Dr. F. S. Arant, chief of the
white - ‘t r i n g e d zoology-entomology department
”is This would Alabama Polytechnic Institute,
‘e‘ate they do . __ says “damage to crops from th
,_ J am: the spray- ', imported fire ant in Alabama i
ﬂpbserved or its ';; ,, practically nil.” Dr. ,L. D. New
ibis ill iffects son of the Louisiana, State Uni-
cl‘legked. Landrum .. ' versity challenged anyone to go
Sm spraying is on record as saying that the
being’done only by ﬁre-ant eradication program
permission. could be justified by damages
5.2.1119 who op— . ‘ to crops or animals.
~..;the'spraying Fairleigh Dr. Fairfield Osborn, noted
lgﬁtiﬂu and Wll‘ltef‘ because 0f conservationist, was quoted as
theireported loss of bird, animal saying “we would be wise to
{ﬁllet life. are “OW more sym- halt this massive spraying until
pathetic With the Spray program we know what effects the toxins

v s

because they have 109911 misled are having on ourselves and our
inta- bellevmg the White fringed animal co—heirs to this planet."
beetle-was responSIble for a tree * * *
blight . _ . . River Forecast . i
,gjiaandrum admitted that it 1:: Ma 26 19,9

nut’the white fringed beetle that “Mississippi. Riveryat ,Cariith-
gutfhzgminiggaﬁogl 01;} tﬁis‘; ersville will rise about .3 foot
.' ‘ d a by Wednesday and then' fall
beﬁesaln fact, Lan rum gal about 1 foot by Thursday and
tmivsl‘ihlte. frngd beetle . does .5 foot .by Friday morning ” the
nets-emerge from the grub stage Memphis Weather Bureau, fore
until *1 late May or June and . ‘ '

 
 
 
 
 

  
 
     
   
     
        
    
 
    
    
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
     
       
    
      
       
     
    
    
   
     
    
   
   
    
    
 

 
 

 

    
 
 
 
 
 

 

    
   
    
 

    

 

 

 

  

    
 
 
    
 
 

     
 

_ my; . cast today.
sﬁom attacks tree leaves. “At Memphis it will rise
camel True Facts about 4.2 foot by Wednesday,
raise-lemma] Welfare Institute. .3 foot by Thursday and change
N‘Yor 1y ' a little by Friday morning.

, 'c.
antphlet just issued that the of- “At Helena it will rise about
fi‘éfal poisoners have gone to .1 foot by Wednesday, .2 foot
astonishing lengths to conceal by Thursday and .2 foot by
the ill effects of the poison Friday morning.”
spray programs on bird an "‘M‘ ”M“
animal life.
They print. an affidavit from
Lester Reed, who fermerl
spread poison, in which he says
heyas “called on the- carpet“
has * gagsuperiersttor keeping'vfta
ass "number of animals kille
byjihé poison. ' , ,
"My superior ordered ms t
hidethe bodies of animals and
biﬁQS'; including farmers dogs,
saiithe harm I was doing woul
notgeome to the attentiOn of the
mimic.” Reed is quoted as say

     
    
      
    
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
      
   
   
   
    
      
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
     
   
   
    
    
    
    
   
   
   
   
    
     

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
   
  
   
  
  

  
 

' insist;
~i-‘5‘Backfire in the War Against
Insects.” an article in the" June
issue of Readers Digest by Rob-
ert S. Strother quotes many;
a u t h o r i t. i e s to substantie
ate charges that the federal
poison spray programs are kill-
ing ﬁsh, animal and bird life.
Following are-some Quotes frbm"
the article: ~- '
“It’s like scalpin‘g yourself to
cure dandruff,” said Clarence
‘Cottum, former ofﬁcial with the
U. S. .Fish and Wildlife Service.

Threat fa Animals _
Says Dr. George J. Wallace,i
Michigan State University 20610- ;
gist, “The current Wildspread j
poison program poses the:
greatest threat that animal life
in North America has ever
faced - wvorse ,than illegal.-
‘shooting, worse than defore‘Sta?
tion. worse- than» drainage“
. drought, oil pollution; possibly
worse than all of theée decimals-v
ipgj factors combmed.” . 1
Charles Kelley. cf the _ A1117;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 




Septamber B, 1§59

Tf’ﬁ

'.J§. '2'

:41.

w
‘0' " ‘43. g ‘ H};
a; .n WI:

. r a mu '1 ‘u,

QED i; :1 all; 1,} Lag;

'j t:_'?: 3‘JV"? P1?
‘.- h L] .0. '.~'¢.-?v

'1 , r-
‘ — a: .. ,. ' 4F. 1-: IA - ‘.. - . . . ' . a n - .ﬁ ’
.. ii}; $4.4 9.4.; ~-' . ‘ , . ‘ _ .V 1:??7‘r‘3j; {Mg 54!}
7"! Q n
2‘ “v: '; ",t’ 1.. '0- gm) 4") ”a. J— - _ ‘ ﬂ -' ,. -‘ a“ ‘ .. . «I .. f,
2 {’29 ‘N .' , J v ~ u -“ m ’V
. .A .I \, ~ ,, 1. A : .‘ . . . , . 2 m l‘ «3 g .s '3",
u'0 ‘0' l- :1 u .L- J k-Gu‘ LJ‘N- k. v10| «n-l- £9; 5 . u‘ wau‘ \ t’oﬁv :13: ”iv-1:3 :«iwi‘ﬁ;
(‘1

L ‘1 r
u. v.4. .,.\‘.. t, «u,

‘\‘ *1“ ‘3 “ ‘0
Y, x 3 I -;—~.' ,?a 4, “V", 2; LI ‘ Ly .' .1 .1 Vi; n; 3,} {g} 1"; M I"? .;
, , '.'. , .. ,1\“..“‘E ,

w:i."0u:‘d 31”“. iii tn}. 5,} ‘

“J3 sevens,

 




1 223 .333 1.3333

T1333x5~3087

T325373}! 15 y 1956‘

53. Jann 113 L3r
513333’3 33333533
39 5335 33rd St.
T33”1333, 333~5333

D333 151‘. 5513333313

It 333 3 33335 p13353r3 t3 3333 3333 acqmaintance 335 I appreciate
3333 5333r333 in laboratory 335331'3315333 33ry much 535335. I'm going to
3231335 tom33row and 3333 picked 33% 3 533*13533335533.5333333 335 333335 items

W33 333 31p333335 inter3st. A circular 13tt3r of my 533331'3 addressed

to 3333333 of the 53335033 F353r3t533 of Societies fer gxper1333t31 Biology start3
ﬂat with the l3tt3r I 3333 W335 t3 333 at lunch. The two 3333313 that 33 distribute
5333 33 3333335 to 13ber3t33133 are 3133 33c1333d. ”Basic 6333 of Exper533ntal
5313313” in par5 33133, has been 33535 53r by hundreds of d 553r3nt 13b3r3t3r533.

3333 I return, I‘ll get tag3th3r 3521t“eqal material for yau. But

1 53133 533 b33t 5533 533 an article, 33503, 535 8333 r333335153't strike me till
ft3r 313 3333 3333, 33 13 be the atory of Dr. 33y. There 333 q35t3 a bit 35

3 311313y 33335 the 3303113 :33 of h13 335331 colony 3 cauple of y33rs ago. That
333 3h3 333333 that 33 inV3stigat35 it, 335 33 53335 it 3335 as 3335 33 it'333
33333 35 33 33. Th3n 3 cambinat53n of 533333353333 335 cr alty'3ntered the picture.
Th3 35333 13 an int3333153301213 31d 3353r311 331353 out 53 33331553 terms quite
3 333333 35 the g333r31 problems 3553335313J133333333y 3353313 in the 19$Q's. If
333333115‘3335 to 333 in t3 ch with 53. Bay, 2153 355 r333 335 ph333 333333 333
38 5311033. Dr. Bogart Bay, PO Box 2162, Salt Lake City, Utah - Hunter b-6828

Thank 333 33353 133 3333 35353333,

Sincerely,

 




 




Sent ta John Fiecher, Harper‘s, March 1%, 1956

Information Report Vol. 4 m. 5 with notation. ”Dr. Bay might well be
the ecientiat w‘o loves animals around whom, you auggeated,the story
could Gather. When we made the deciaﬁon to awardhim the Schweitzer‘Medal
we did not know'of the painful struggle he wee making to maintain humane
standards in hie animal colony. An interview with him wauld be vem' much
worthwhile.”

Inﬂarmation Report Vol. 2 No. 5 with notation: "Bad animal housing. (other
examplea could be giben: for example, cats and dogekept fer as much as
seven yeara in small cages, released 0-ly for Occasional ehperimental

use; rabbit cages in wﬁfch animals could not turn around; chickens which
had so greatly outgrown their broader houses that ehey were iosced perpet»
ually to crouch)”

Infarmation R port V01. 4 No. 5 with notation: ”Dorothy Thompson's artﬂzle
on children'e eXperiments (NSMR attacked her severely ibr this)"

Infbrmatien Reperte V01.5 R0. 2, Vol. 2 No. 2, ani Vol. 1 N0. 4 with
notation: "In£>mmatien on aha a1.expeﬂqmentation in England: Animal
Technicians‘ examinations, Analysis of‘the British law, Some general

observatiene.“

Copies of Basic Care 0f Experimental
Laboratory Animale,

Animals, Comfbrtable Q '
r ‘ mart -
Fburth Annual Report. era fbr

 




new: GENERAL "KEféTURES CORPORATEON

25C} PAR. ENUE, NEW YORK 17, NEW YORK

SPEAKING OF PETS

PUP IS WHAT RES
OWNER MAKES HEM

By HO Ho MILLER

Why ane some dogs "no trouble at all" while others continually

present problems? To a large extent, the answer lies with the owner.

Almost without exception, a puppy comes into the world happy and
trustworthy, all ready to love and he loved by the human beings with
whom he will liveo If he grows up to be a nuisance rather than a joy,
there have usually been human mistakes along tie mayo

Early environment does much to mold the pup into the kind of
dog everyone likes to have around; and a large part played in that
environment is "family life." A pup can°t grow up to be smart and
well adjusted if he is tied to a dog house or kept in the basement
for days on end. Under such conditions he is naturally going to "go
crazy" with joy and excitement when he does get attention.

Or he may be frustrated and shy and perhaps squat and leak every
time someone reaches out to him or starts to handle himc That is
caused by nervousness, and the reaction of squatting and piddling is
entirely involuntary. The pup can°t control it and if this act is
mistaken for infringement of house rules and the puppy is scolded Or
spanked for it, he becomes more nervous and the condition is only
made worse.

Nearly all puppies become overly excited under certain circumm
stances .0. coming into a new home; having small children swoop down
on them when they are not used to kiddies; or having a stranger
reach out to pick them up. The way to treat the nervous piddler is
to ignore the act, distract his attention by tossing a toy or picking
him up for a cuddle or carrying him outdoors for a little romp. The
best means of encoura.ing the pup to get over his troubles can be
judged by intelligent handling of the individual case.

A pup should have the privilege of family life. That doesn't
mean he should have the run of the house. But make a small enclosure
for him, or bring out that unused child's play pen. This can be put
in the kitchen or Wherever the pup can be in the midst of the usual

household activities.

(MORE)

 




1‘ "_,> v", ,A 'v‘ ‘ » I ~ A 0 , A‘

’(y it: 31:2, a); i 4
1 '3'; . .. ,
'\

Cg 2 see GENERAL EEATURES CORPORAW WM

250 PARK AVENUE NEW YORK 27’ NEW YORK
SEEAEING 0F PETS CONTINUED PAGE #2 FOR RELEASE: SUNo 3-15n59

 

Maﬁ—i

In this way he becomes accustomed to moi see and people and if he's
talked to, you'll be serprised how quickly he learns the meaning of
words 005 and behavior, too, just from your approving or Scolding
tone of voiceo For the diSplay of approval or disapproval is the
very essence of traiuiego
A pup needs frequent naps aed at such times, let him be un-
disturbedo Also? for some ye riod doriag th e day, put him in a room
away from everyone whe re he till he aloee. Aad ignore his pleas for
attentiono He°ll eventually settle downo In this way he will learu
that he can‘t have company all the timee Aed when he grows up he
won't rouse the whole neighborhood howling or barking whenever he
has to be left alone at homeo
e e a
THE PET FORUM

"In my biology class arm ther pupil and I are going to

mate a pair of rats and do as experiment on raising

half of tee young away from the mother, so we need to

know how to feed and care for the babies."

DOUo

(A) Since th‘i s is a class pr01eot it's sa.rprising that your teacher

doesn't advise you on sour; es for the information you desirea Write

the Animal Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Sta, New York 3, NOYO, for

pamphletso You may find such books as "The Rat is Laboratory

Investigation" Ligpinoott) and other books on the care and breeding
of ].ahora* ory animals in the putlic library or local book store.
(Q) "My pet budgie sits with his fee mlea s fluffed out,
will not set or drink and has d1ffs.ul*; in breathing.
Have been told he ks s rooohial pseumonia and was
given medicine to p at in his Rater Is there anything
else I can do?"

AACo
(A) Pneumonia is usually the result of drafts or col. Keeping a
sick bird at a temperature of 90 degrees wit h the cage covered on
three sides sometimes helpso But he m~-: 32 so resume eatiago
Send your qxw est ioa s on pet care to Mr.Miller in care of this

newspapero He will answer them in his column in the order of their

interest to most readerso
(coprnxoer 1959, GENERAL FEATURES coupe)

(MORE)

 




 

 

 

 

235i”) PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK 37, NEW YORK

CQTJ GENERAL FEATURES CQRPORAWQN

CAPTION FOR SPEAKKNG 0F PETS PHOTO
E: SUE? 0

F03 @ELEAS 3..1 5....59

This photo cowld be titled "Cat in a Basket" or "Kitty Playing
Peekmamﬁoeo" In either case, the subjecﬁ is real cuteo (Photo by

La Maine Fantozzi courtesy Cats Magazine}

 




*3 P R O

F I L E5

CLOSINGS AND OPENINGH

URING the last couple of years,
no individual has had a bigger
impact on the American real—

estate scene than a man who organized
and headed a syndicate that bought, for
ﬁfty—one and a half million dollars, the
Empire State Building; who, by agree—
ing to pay rent that, over a thirty-ﬁve-
year stretch, will probably come to more
than ﬁfty million dollars, acquired the
much-coveted lease on a ten—acre slice
of downtown Seattle; and who is at pres—
ent planning the construction in Boston
of a seventy-ﬁve—million-dollar com—
mercial center, which, if it materializes,
will be more than twice as spacious as
the. Rockefellers’ center here. During
the same period, no individual has had
a bigger impact on the legitimate theatre
than a man who is currently its busiest
producer and has been instrumental, this
season alone, in bringing to Broadway
“Tea and Sympathy,” “Sabrina Fair,”
“In the Summer House,” “The Re—
markable Mr. Pennypacker,” and “Es—
capade;” who has “The Conﬁdential
Clerk,” “The Winner,” and “Ondine”
coming up any day now; and whose
agenda for next season includes the im—
portation from Stratford-on—Avon of
the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre
Company. The fact that the individual
in both instances is the same man is
a source of wonder to his associates
and of occasional concern to the man
himself—*Roger Lacey Stevens, a for-
ty—three-year-old entrepreneur from
Michigan with a vast enthusiasm for
both second acts and second mortgages.
Stevens, a tall, powerfully built, bald-
headed, affable plunger, cannot make
up his mind which aspect of his dual
personality is dominant, and in intro-
spective moments he is apt to try to
analyze himself after the manner of his
favorite playwright, Luigi Pirandello,
who was obsessed with the complexity
of human nature and with man’s in—
ability to fathom his own true identity.
Not long ago, discussing his double-
barrelled existence with a friend,
Stevens paused suddenly, like a charac—
ter in a play, and asked, “Who am I?”

Even those who are closest to Stevens
aren’t sure who he is——or, rather, what
he is and people who have seen a good
deal of him in one of his occupational
roles have been astonished, and some-
times put out, to learn that there is
another side to him. Once, a theatrical
director who was anxious to confer with
him about a leading lady was miffed on

being told that he was inextricably tied
up in a conference with J. P. Morgan 8:
Co. about a multimillion-dollar loan for
an imminent building venture. “How
can anybody bother with a hole in the
ground when we’re casting!” the di-
rector exclaimed. More recently, a
young Boston architect who has been
working on Stevens’ center there was
dismayed when he found out that Ste-
vens, whom he had thought of as a man
interested exclusively in such matters
as ﬂoor space and elevators, was the im-
presario of a number of Broadway plays
that had been tried out in Boston. “It
came as a kind of shock to discover that
all this time Deborah Kerr and I have
been working for the same boss,” he
said.

In both his chosen spheres of activity,
Stevens has a chameleon’s faculty for
making himself inconspicuous. Though
he has been chairman of the executive
committee of the Empire State Building
for over two years, he is not known by
sight to the guards of the observation
tower. Similarly, he iS‘now and then
ﬂagged down by stage doormen while
he is on his way to visit the dressing
rooms of actors in his employ. Stevens
was not surprised at the treatment he
received in an article that Theatre ﬂrts
carried last November outlining the
steps that led to the New York open-
ing of “Tea and Sympathy,” which was
produced by the Playwrights’ Company
in association with Mrs. Mary K.
Frank. While Stevens has never writ-
ten a play, he has been a member of
the Playwrights since 1951, and he was
more responsible than any playwriting
Playwright for bringing “Tea and Sym-
pathy” to Broadway. Theatre ﬂrts ac-
companied its article with photographs
of practically all the people connected
with the production—director, actors,
playwright, costume designer, ward-
robe mistress, scene designer, stage-
hands, and so on. The only face of con-
sequence missing was that of Stevens,
whose name, however, appeared under
a picture of the company manager.
Stevens seems to enjoy being cast in the
role of a naive country bumpkin turned
loose to wander unrecognized through
the big city a faceless lamb, as it were,
thrown among celebrated lions. A few
weeks ago, as he was escorting a friend
to one of his shows, he said, “It’s almost
curtain time. I sure hope they’ll hold
my tickets for me.”

Some of Stevens’ acquaintances be—

R0 gar L. S tevem

lieve that he is given to overacting
his lamb-among-lions role. They point
out that he has become sufﬁciently
polished to be warmly greeted by,
and to conﬁdently order a bottle of
wine from, such a connoisseur of urban—
ity as the headwaiter of the Baroque,
and that not long ago, when a Wall
Street friend put him up for the Rac-
quet and Tennis Club, he did not hesi—
tate to join it. In fact, these acquaint—
ances suggest that Stevens’ habitual air
“of nai'veté is a carefully contrived suit
of armor that he ﬁnds useful in dick-
ering with people who both appear and
are tough. After tangling with an out-
wardly diﬂident Stevens in one mam-
moth real-estate operation, an executive
of the Prudential Insurance Company,
whOse negotiators must by the nature
of their work be masters of the ﬁrm
stand, was moved to remark admiring-
ly that the man had ice water in his
veins.

Whatever the contents of Stevens’
veins, it was deﬁnitely a warmhearted
impulse that led him into the real—estate
deal—one of the biggest ever brought
off west of the Mississippi—that re-
sulted in his now being the operator
of a highly proﬁtable cluster of struc-
tures in Seattle that includes six large
ofﬁce buildings and the city’s princi-
pal movie house. Stevens got mixed up
in this one as the outcome of paying a
casual call on a man who was employed
in Detroit by an insurance company to
look after its real—estate holdings. While
the insurance man was on the phone,
Stevens idly examined a pile of maga-
zines on his desk. Stevens is a man with
a predilection for plays that he thinks
have real' literary merit rather than
mere popular appeal, and since he feels

 




38

the same way about books and maga-
zines, he was delighted to ﬁnd, tucked
away beneath Collie/5 and the Reader’s
Digest, copies of such favorites of his
as the New Republic and the Saturday
Review. He was also amazed. “I didn’t
know anybody in the ﬁnancial world
read those things except me,” he said
later. As soon as his companion had
put down the phone, Stevens struck up
a lively intellectual conversation with
him—the sort of conversation he had
never before enjoyed in an insurance
oﬂice. As Stevens was about to leave,
the insurance man remarked that he
wanted very much to return to Seattle,
where he had been born, but didn’t dare
give up his job and go,
because he wasn’t sure
he could get a compara—
ble one there. Stevens,
distressed at ﬁnding so
mentally stimulating a
companion dissatisfied
with his lot, at once in-
vited the man to work
for him, at double the
salary he was earning,
and gave him an ideal
assignment. The Uni-
versity of \Vashington,
which had been he-
queathed a substantial
portion of the Seattle
business district many
years before, was look—
ing for a new lessee
for the property. Stevens,
who had never been in
the State of \Vashing—
ton and had no particu—
lar desire to go there,
instructed his new em-
ployee to hurry out to
Seattle and make a bid to
take over the lease. It
was Stevens’ idea that if
things worked out right,
he would make the man
his resident agent in Seat-
tle. Things were work-
_ ing out ﬁne when, on the
day before the contract
was to be signed, the
man died of a heart
attack. Stevens, whose
designs on the Far West
had been motivated most—
ly by sentiment, now
found himself heavily
committed in that remote
and unfamiliar territory,
and without the beneﬁt
of a home—town boy’s
guidance. Pulling him-
self together, he boarded
a plane for Seattle, and

. / ' ,

‘<’\.“

‘ .

signed the contract. His investment has
been doing very nicely.

HEN Stevens was in his late

teens, he kept himself in pocket
money by consistently winning small
sums from contemporaries who were
less skilled than he was at bridge, black—
jack, and poker. He no longer plays
cards much, but in times of stress he
often adopts the diSconcertingly phleg-
matic attitude of an experienced gam-
bler, which, of course, is essentially
what he is—the high-class variety of
gambler known as a speculator. Be-
fore he succeeded in nailing down the
Empire State Building, he wagered a

'v .

~

million-dollar cash deposit a large part
of it belonging to associates who were,
in effect, betting on his ability to bring
off the deal—on the proposition that
he could raise an additional ﬁfty and
a half million within a speciﬁed time;
if he had failed to come through, he
would have had to forfeit the ante.
Stevens beat the deadline, but only by
forty-eight hours a margin of safety
that many poker players, considering
the stakes, might think inadequate. In
taking the chances he does, Stevens, like
most other big—time dealers in real estate
today, rarely uses much of his own
money. He prefers to borrow—or, as he
puts it, to hire—money from banks,
insurance companies, or
any other sources that he
can tap. “The funny
thing about what I do is
that if I had the money
myself, I wouldn’t do
it,” he says. “The ro-
mance of speculation lies
in doing it with little
money of your own.”
\Vhen the Empire State
Building ﬁnally changed
hands, Stevens personal-
ly owned a two-million—
dollar slice of it, for
which he had invested
a mere eight hundred
thousand dollars—two
hundred and ﬁfty thou-
sand of them being the
broker’s commission he
collected on the sale.
Among real-estate
men, the gathering of
so lush a harvest from so
relatively puny a planting
is considered not unrea-
sonable; they look upon
it as a legitimate reward
for having the courage,
imagination, and ability
it takes to conceive a big
transaction and see it
through to completion.
Since it was Stevens who
painstakingly ﬁtted to-
gether the myriad bits
and pieces that made up
the Empire State trans—
action, and who, irre-
spective of the amount of
cash he put up personally,
staked his whole reputa—
tion on having the deal
pan out, these men feel
that it was only right that
he should have some-
thing substantial to show
for it. “Somebody has to
take chances to get things

 




EDISON and STEINMETZ exchange ideas on a research problem.

Schenectady, N. Y., 1922.

“I start where the last man left of ”

Edison, to explain his incessant and tireless reading
of scientiﬁc journals, technical papers, patents and
books, said that he read to avoid useless repetition of

old experiments. “I start where the last man left off.”

What Edison knew, and perhaps said in an un-
quoted moment, is that thousands of men would be
needed to “start where he left off.”

C

“Just wait a little while,” prophesied Edison, ‘ and
we’ll make electric light so cheap that only the
wealthy can afford to burn candles.” Edison lived to
see lamps that gave four times as much light and cost
one—ﬁfth as much to buy. And electric lighting has

progressed far beyond that.

He recognized that an invention does not and a

search. It begins a search.

—Thomas A. Edison

The lamp was a beginning in forcing not only
its own evolution but the evolution of meters, fuses,
sockets, wiring, power distribution systems, trans—

formers and generating stations.

He lived to see the company that was formed
to carry on development of electric light and power
evolve into one of the world’s most important in—
dustrial research centers. Today General Electric
laboratories employ several thousand men and
women who are seeking new things on widely

different fronts.

It is seventy—ﬁve years since Edison lit the first suc—
cessful carbon lamp. He will be remembered for
inventions that changed the world. But let him be
remembered, too, for inspiring so many men to start

where he left off.

GENERAL.ELECTRIC

 




40

 

 

“Restores our theatre to

an art again.”
-ATI(INSON. N.Y. Times

Tbe Playwrigbts’ Company
in arrociatian wit/2
Mary K. Frank 12mm!

DEBORAH KERR
r.. EIIA IIAZAN s production 01/1(\

Tea ml Sympathy/e

by ROBERT AN/DERSON
with m
JOHN KERR

LEIF ERICKSON/

Mail Orders Now for Man.
Mon. thru Thur. Eves.: $4. .,08(;I1 3. “6'3 3. 00, ,‘22249. I| :ygg

 

 

“THE BEST AMERICAN COMEDY 0F MANNERS IN MORE“
THAN A DECADE”~—llENRY IIEWES, Sat. Review
The Play'zm‘ights’
,CoInpany presents

MARGARET JOSEPH

STILLAVIIII COTTEH

in SAMUEL TAYLOR’ 8 Romantic Comedy

SabrinaFnip

OATHLEEN JOHN LUELLA RUSSELL
NESBITT CROMWELL GEAR COLLINS
SCOTT MCNAY - ROBERT DUKE
Directed by H. C. POTTER

Mail Orders Now for Mar.. Apr. 6 May
Mon. thru Thur. Eves.: $4. 80. 4. 20. 3. 60. 3. 00, 2 40.
LED. Fri. 81. Sat. Eves.: $6. 00, 4. 80, 3. 60, 3. 00. 2. 40.
l.80. Mat. Wed. $3.60- I. 20. Mat.

 

 

 

 

 

 

NATIONAL Theatre, 41 st St. w. of B way, NY. 36 '

 

 

 

GEORGE KONDOLF presents
MENASHA RICHARD

SlilllllII {WHORE
INTI-IE IEASON”

by SYLVIA REGAN
Staged by GREGORY RATOFF

 

"Irresistible fun! A hit
ﬁlled with laughs!"

-—Co/eman, Mirror

 

 

 

Tues. thru Sun. Evgs. (No Mons.)

$4.80, 4.20, 3.60, 3.,

W? 2.40, l.80. Mats. Sat.

. ~ & Sun. $3.60, 3., 2.40,

l.80. |.20. (Incl.
tax).

CORT THEATRE
48 St. E. of B'way

 

 

 

 

”A VERY FUNNY COMEDY."
—-Gibbs, The New Yorker

“A HOWLING HIT."
. —Hawkins, Wor. Tele. & Sun

 

MAX GORDON presents

JOSEPHINE HULL
The SOLID GOLD CADILLAC

by HOWARD TEICHMANN and GEORGE S. KAUFMAN

LORING SMITH

staged by GEORGE S KAUFMAN

 

MAIL ORDERS FILLED THRU JULY 3rd
Mon. thru Thurs. Eves. $4804.80; Fri. & Sat.
Eves. $6-T.80; Wed. Mat. $3.60-T.20; Sat.
Mat. $4204.20. Tax Included.
BELASCO Then... 44 St. E.of Bway.JU 6-7950
Evenings 8:40. Matinees Wed. & Sat. 2:40
. 0 Special Mat. Mon. (Wash. B'day) Feb. 22 a

 

 

 

done under our economic system,” a
friend of Stevens’ observed recently. “A
lot of people won’t take them. But
Roger will, and, what 3 more, he has
the tigift of persuading hardheaded busi-
rressmen to go along with him. He 5 a
natural coiir dinator . He 3 also the most
natural money-maker I’ve ever met.
Sometimes, with all the projects he’s
embroiled in now, people think he’s a
stretched-out m he’s so
overextended that a depression would
really clip him. But you can’t talk to
Roger about depressions. It Would be
like talking to a race horse about run—
ning slower. Men like Roger are run—
ning to win. If they stopped to think
about all the awful things that could
happen to them, they wouldn’t win.
Speculation is a matter of intuition
rather than intelligence, anyway. With
Roger, the closing’s the thing, and he
doesn’t go into a deal unless he has a
strong hunch he can close it. It’s true
that he made a big proﬁt on the Empire
State deal, but he made a bigger gamble.
VVhat he did basically was push in his
entire stack of chips. But he won the pot
when he closed. And he’s never missed
out on a closing yet.”

STEVENS has scarcely missed out on an
opening, either, since he became
stage-struck. A few years ago, his wife
was out of town on the opening night
of a play he owned a piece of, and he
chivalrously waited to go to it with her.
She arrived in New York two days later,
expecting to see the show with her hus-
band that evening, but by then it had
folded. Having failed to catch that
particular turkey made Stevens resolve
never again to miss an opening if he

could help it, whether or not he had

a financial interest in the show. Stevens
got into the theatre shortly after the
Second. VVorld VVar, when, after being
mustered out of the Navy, he decided
that the majority of the real—estate peo—
ple be associated with were culturally
sterile and severely limited in conversa—
tional scope. (He had not yet met the
man from Seattle.) They could talk
only shop. Stevens found this boring,
at least after business hours, when he
would rather discuss arts than crafts.
He was then living in Ann Arbor, but
he visited New York frequently and
went to plays as often as possible. He
began to get better acquainted with the
theatre by investing comparatively small
amounts in a few plays, and he has
been an angel ever since. His Wing-
spread has never been as ample as,
say, Howard Cullman’s, but he has
backed quite a few shows—~mostly off—

 

 

 

r.» 4WEEIISIINLY! BEII. FEB. III 1= »

MAIL ORDERS NOW 0

III, DIRECI FROM TO KYO III
S- H U R0 K WITH THE COOPERATION OF

H. I. H. PRINCE TAKAMATSU and In.
JAPANESE MINISTRY of FOREIGN AFFAIRS
presents Tor me FIRST TIME IN AMERICA

THE AZUMA

Kabuki.

DR‘WQERS
and MUSICIANS

TWO DIFFERENT PROGRAMS:
OPENING PROGRAM THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 13 thru
SUNDAY EVENING, MARCH 7 - SECOND PROGRAM tUEs.
DAY EVENING MARCH 9 thru SUNDAY EVENING MARCH 21

Opening Night. $6.00, 4.80 4.,20 3.,00
2.,40 1.80 Eves. thereafter incI. Sun.:
$4.80, 4.20, 3.,60 3.00, 2.40 1..80 Mats.
Sat. & Sun: $3.,60 3.,00 2.,40 1.80,
1..20 Tax Incl. NO Monday Perfs. Special
Mat. Mon, Feb. 22 (Wash. Birthday). No
Perfs. Mari. & Tues. Eves” Feb. 22 & 23.

Enclose stamped self addressed envelope.
l _ CENTURY THEA.,7th Ave.&59th St. I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ENCHANTED"—-TIMES, NEWS, HERALD TRIBUNE

MAURICE EVANS
in auocroIIOn wrlh GEORGE SCHAEEER presents

 

 

A New Comedy by
JOHN PATRICK .
', 'I ' lAdapledlIomlhe Novelby Vern Snerderl _

wllh
PAUL WILLIAM

. LARRY
FORD GATES ' HANSEN

and

MARIKO NIKI
. PdeUCllOﬂ D recled by ROBERT LEWIS ' . '
Evgs. 8: 40—Mon. lhru Thurs; $4. 80- I. 80. Fri. 8. Sal. Evgs.:
$6. 00- T. 80. Mols. Wed. 8. Sat. 2:40—53. 60- 1.20. (Tax Incl.)
MARTIN BECK THEA., 45m St. W. of 81h Ave.

 

 

“OAYER THAN A OAYOREAM.”

——-Waltcr Winchell
“ORIGINAL and FUNNY.”
—Allﬁlll$0ll, NJ”. Times
COURTNEY BURR and ELLIOTT NUGENT
prexe

1 IBM [WELL
the seven

yearitc/I'L...
VANESSA BROWN

Robert . Neva George
Emhardt Patterson Keane
Directed by JOHN GERSIAD
Mon. thru Thurs. Evgs. : $4.80 to l.80. Fri. & Sat. EVgs.:
$6to l.80. Mats. Wed. & Sat. : $3.60 to l.80. (Tax Incl.)
Please enclose stamped. self-mldressed errrelupe

_ FULTON THEATRE. 210 Wes‘I’ 46th Street _

 

 

 

 

 

' The Theatre Guild & Joshua Logan

present

PULITZER DRAMA
Pm; P I c N I (A CRITICS’
PLAY by WILLIAM INGE

RALPH MEEKER JANICE RULE
and PEGGY CONKLIN ’
Staged by JOSHUA LOGAN

Evgs. 8:30. Mon. lhru Thurs.:$4.80, l.80. Fri. 8. Sat. Evgs.:
$6.,‘T.80. Mats. Thurs. 8. Sat. -2:30.$3.60,- T.ZO. Tax Incl.

 

 

 

 

 

MUSIC BOX, 239 W. 45 St., N. Y. 36_g

 




 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“AN UPROARIOUS SHOW;
DRENCHED WITH LAUGHTER!”

—Atkinson, Times

"...YOU’LL BE DELIGHTED WITH IT.”

—Gibbs, The New Yorker

Burgess Martha
Meredith Scott

'llre Remarkable
Mr. Pennypacker”

Thomas Chalmers - Una Merkel - Glenn Anders
MAIL ORDERS NOW

Evgs. Orch. $4. 80; Balc.
40, l..80 Mats. Wed. &Sat.,
$3.00 2. 40 I. 80 I.20.

: (Ist 6 rows)

Prices (Tax Incl. ):
2 ,3 6.0 3.00 2.
0; Bale.

Please enclose self- addressed stamped envelope-

OORONET THEATRE 49th St. W.ofB'way

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“EXCITING. . . ENGROSSING. ..
E N If RT A TNT" ”—A'I'KINSON,

Y' TIMES
LELAND HAYWARD presents '

Katharme Cornell

"M’meﬁ'Pnopoaau-

' A New PI ay
HOWARD LINDSAY and RUbSSEL CROUSE

with FELIX AYLMER. ,
LOIIIIE . m . ROGER . 311mm . ‘MIIIIIO
GREENE ASTAI‘I . om ROBINSON ‘ IIIIIII

Directed by HOWARD LINDSAY

BROADHURST THEATRE .
235 West 44th Street
EVGS. at 8:40
’MATS; WED. 8. SAT. at 2:40

"A IIIIII.

M‘- cc‘olnl

w

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“WONDERFUL’t

CRITICS UNANIMOUS

ROSALIND
RUSSELL

IN THE PRIZE- WINNING MUSICAL

WINTER GARDEN, 8' way & 50 St
Evgs. $7.20 to 2.40.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L... Mots. Wed. & Set. $4.20 to 1.80.

beat, unconventional ones of a ruggedly
serious nature. Among them have been
“The Madwoman of Chaillot,” “Saint
Joan,” “Venus Observed,” “Second
Threshold,” “Legend of Lovers,”
“Darkness at Noon,” “Not for Chil-
dren,” “Barefoot in Athens,” “An
Enemy of the People,” “The Rose Tat—
too,” “Camino Real,” and “Peer
Gynt.” In backing shows and, for the
past five years, producing them as well,
he has spent a lot of money on the thea—
tre, but he has not spent it primarily 1n
the hope of ﬁnancial reward and there-
fore regards his Broadway operaltions
as not truly speculative. “lVIost shows
are lousy investments unless you have
a good taX base and don t mind losing
money, he says.

At the start of his career as an angel,
Stevens, always a persuasive salesman,
induced several of his real—estate part—
ner‘s to join him in backing plays; they
were men whose taX bases were in such
excellent shape that he didn’t mind ask-
ing them to invest in things like Ibsen,
even though he may1 h ave doubted their
ability to discourse upon them. A few of
these associates have stuck with him in
his theatrical adventures ever since,

through thick and a good deal of thin.
“I have managed to avoid hits assidu-
ously,” St‘evens said at the beginning of
the present season. This gloomy claim

was not entirely true at the time, for he
h ad 1acquired on behalf of the Play—
wrig hts Company the production rights
to “The Fourposter, ’ a resounding hit,
and it has become even less true since.
Stevens got “The Fourposter” as the
result of losing his way while driving to
see a summer— -theatre tryout of the show
on Cape Cod. He didn t arrive until the
last act was half ﬁnished He stay ed
over an extra day so he could take 1n the
whole play, and, rather than waste his
time just h ranging ar,ound spent the 111-
terval negotiating for the Broadway
rights.

Stevens has run into some exasperat-
ing difﬁculties trying to cut his real-
estate friends 1n on hits he hasn t man—
aged to avoid. He was preoccupied with
real— estate matters at the time the Play-
wrights began to dispose of shares of
“The Fourposter,” and these went so
fast that when he got around to trying
to fix his friends up he was able to
wangle only a piddling portion of it
for them. In the case of “ Tea and
Sy,”n1pathy he fared even wor.se Last
spring shortly before he was to sail for
Europe, he was weighing the merits of
three scripts, one of them “Tea and
Sympathy,” when he ran into l\lrs
Frank, who informed him that sheI had a

 

 

 

RODGERSsHAMMERSTEIN'S

New Musical Comedy

1111 me

with ISABEL BILL IOAN
BIGLEY HAYES McCRACKEN

RAY MARK JACKIE
WALSTON DAWSON KELK

EveS.: $720 600 480 360 300°40 180
Mats. Wed &Sat.:$420,3.60300,..240180

MAJESTIC THEATRE, West 44111 Street
N LAST WEEKS! w

YUI. BRYNNER

RODGERS & HAIIIMERSTEIN'S
The King, and I

A Musical Play
with ANNAMARY DICKEY
TERRY SAUNDERS
Eves.: $7..20 6.00 4,80 360 3.,00 2..401..80
Mats. Wed &Sat.: $4. 20, 3 60 3.00 2. 40 l..80

ST. JAMES THEATRE. West 44th StreeL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LIMITED ENGAGEMENT

S. HUROK and "the Messrs. SHUBERT

present

Pm

IIIIrcIIIIII 'R.

W

and as guest artist
‘ LE LOU

“THE BEAUTIFUL WIDOW"

courtesy MGM Studios ‘ o and IICARMEN"
, Eves. Incl. Sun. 8: 30. Mots. Sat. 2: 30&Sun. 2: 45
BROADWAY TH EA., B’way 8: 53rd Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“MOST OUTRAGEUUSLY OUTRIGHT FUN
OF THE SEASON” ——HEWE$, SATURDAY REVIEW
CHERYL CRAWFORD

in ossocralion with AHdeISOTI Lawler present:

IIINIHII TUNE m,
/l,.l726/Z/ g:

Ca, COMEDY by EDWARD CHOOOROV '

GIG YOUNG 0 BETSY VON FURSTENBERG

HENRY MILLER' S Thea..,124 W. 43 St. BR 9- 3970
Evenings at 8: 40. Mutinees Thurs. 8. Sat. at 2:40

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Julie Harris Is RADIANT!" —Atkinson. Times
"Edna Best IsWONDERFUL!” -Ch

JULIE HARRIS
EDNA. BEST

in
% 0
with

ELI WALLACH 0 SAM JAFFE

LONGACRE THEA., 48th St. W. of B'way
Eves. 8: 40. Mats. Wed. & Sat, 2. 40

News

 

 

 

‘ ‘Tingles with excitement’ LAIIInson} Times

MAURICE EVANS ..

I BOOTH THEA.. w. ‘45» St.iEvgs 8:40 quIs Wed 8. Sat.

 




TCHAIKOYSK

SYMPHONY NO.
_LEOPOLD s'roxows

N -

We

new sound for one of the

world’s best-loved symphonies

Chances are, you know this music pretty well . . .
Tchaikovsky's Fifi/9 is probably one of the most—
played, most-loved symphonies ever written.

But have you ever real/y'heard it? Heard the full
beauty of its inner melodies, the full splendor of
its massed tones? Not likely. Because these are
sounds it takes a Stokowski-directed orchestra to
create . . . and an RCA Victor ”New Orthophonic”
High Fidelity recording to reproduce.

Music in Stokowski’s hands is always an exciting
experience. He loves beautiful sounds and, what
is more, he knows how to achieve those sounds
with an orchestra.

Buy this performance now at your RCA Victor
dealer’s. One Long Play record.

RCA-VICTOR

FIRST _IN RECORDED iMUSAl-C

“n15 MIUER‘S V01“-

 




lot of money lined up to produce a show
with, but no show. “I’m long on scripts
but short on- time to raise money,”
Stevens told her, and, in the name of his
fellow—Playwrights, solved the double V I R G I N I A

dilemma by selling Mrs. Frank half of 08 George Washington
“Tea and Sympathy.” A month later, ‘

@584 , ”Ed upon returning to New York, he knew it
one " ‘ ‘ learned that Deborah Kerr had been \ a. g .4: " .,
signed for the play, that it looked eX- kgmkﬁmﬁﬁ l; .

Today we feel like am most pOpu‘ ceedingly promising, and that all the ISIT historic

lar boy on the block. Valentines have money needed to produce it had been Williamsburg

. . - ‘. . now and enjoy a pleasant holiday
been pouring in to us, ever smce people subscnbed. The followmg day, two in this charming re_ -created Colonial

have had time to read Nation’s Business real-estate men who had gamely gone Capital. The Williamsburg scene
for January. That was the issue, you along with Stevens through a number bl’mgs baCk the days When waSh‘

. . in ton made his head uarters at
may recall, about Ike’s ﬁrst year. It was of tooth—rattling ﬁascoes called on him Withe House, dined 2t Raleigh

written by the Cabinet members, them- to inquire eagerly how much of “Tea Tavern, strolled through the 18th

selves. ' and Sympathy” he had saved for them. centuly gardens and courted,Mar.tha

“ , . . ,, Custis. A wealth of fascmating

Oh, you wouldnt like it, Stevens things to see and do. Food and

1 said uncomfortably. “It’s very arty.” lodgings to suit every requirement.
most perpetual b ”Sh as we open our They declared that they were sure they Annual Garden Symposmms

mail. The sentiment is touching. And Feb‘ 23 to 27 and Maw" 2 to 6

It comes from all kinds Of people—busi- didn’t believe it could approach either ‘ & Taverns
ness executives, senatOIs and represen- “Legend of Lovers” or “An Enemy of Double from $6.00

_-_. . . :2 __, Williamsburg‘ Inn
tatives editors clergymen teachers the People,” the sour memories of which ‘ .- & Cottages

7 . . . . .. blf 10.00
in“ about everybody. lee to know were still making their iaws ache. Ste— " Don C mmg

Write (ll-TECT or

) a .- . . ~ ~- , .,
What they re saying? f vens Sighed, and stoically gave up most of WW“ WSW"-
I found your

We’ve been wearing an al-

would like it, and that in artiness they W'll' b L d
1 131115 urg o ge

. _ firm, ()fﬁeeshh'eu;
his own share of the show to his friends. g 333-3115? (”1707;

Stevens took his first step up the lad— ‘ ” i -- » \V iii—{mil}?0137327111},
der from angel to producer in the spring : ’ ,.~ il’eiiiilbl‘idi’iz—Sliifji:
of 1949, when he put on “Twelfth ” ' '
Night,” with a cast of imported Broad-

way actors, at the Ann Arbor Drama _'599 VIRFI’WIS COWW/l/ ”PIT/IL 1779 __

. . . N ' '7‘ . 11 z L 3 r 'Y . I T -

important publication.” “These state- {it}: ”as? r: It1-::111)e}:f'ilt:(“0:16Pint)? 12:: x "A DELIGHTFUL EVENING.”—-Ed Sulllvan /
' . ' - “ ‘ ‘ ' ‘ ‘ ‘ . JOSHUA LOGANpresents

ments constitute a splendid r’ep‘oi t of the brought “Twelfth 1 light” along, with MARY CHARLES

past year at V‘Vashinvton We re- “r w b

. b ' most of its original cast. In making the MARTINm o BOYER
ceived an advance copy here at the pa‘- . . .

per yesterday. In a word—terriﬁcl” Jump to the big time, Stevens was en—

. . couraoed b 7 Michael M ierber an ex-
“Please send me 6 more copies.” “It is - b 7} “l g’ sz S2].
beautif 1 b ll tl d t d d perienced Broadw way producer, who told .
a . u o exce en e ie an '
j Y ’ him, “Theres no better way to start :5. ANew Comedy

)0” can be prorid Of It than with Shakespeare.” Stevens was by NORMAN KRASNA

. with
On and on further encouraged when Brooks Atkin- Dorothy Mm alo Frank Robert

they go. Hundreds of them. Oh, happy Son gave “Twelfth Night” an approv- STlCKNEY‘ GILLMORE' CONROY ROSS
dayl The Advertising Department ing notice. That was about all the en- ~’ “lvgﬁ‘ef“ﬁﬁ‘;,- zggnw 8530“ goatlfegedensat
wants to reproduce them in a booklet to couragement he got, but for him it was
impress their die-hard prospects, but we enough; in the face of massive public
can’t seem to let them out Of our sight. apathy, he kept the show running until
How in the world did we ever manage he had lost forty-five thousand dollars
to get the February issue to press? on it. In the spring of 1950, Stevens be—
Nation’s Business, (I mﬂnggne for (mu; came a member of the. board of directors
753557116”) Washington 6, D. C. of the American National Theatre and
Academy, or ANTA. He gave ANTA ,
twenty—ﬁve thousand dollars to under- OILS . Feb. 'lS-Mar. 6
write the production of a series of plays, WATER COLORS

and an additional twenty—five thousand VICTOR

to make up the difference between what DE ' A U W

it ﬁnally; costnto produce one) of them, PASSEDOIT GALLERY
Peer (Jynt, and the show s budget. 121 EAST 57

VVhen ANTA rejected his suggestion

- u )3 , -... -- _

that it put on Peter Pan, he pioduced anqzzetfdtllifle52e

the play With Peter Lawrence, who - ,3 r “""‘
. . . Coo/(ﬂu ‘1

owned the rights to it. This was a

January issue very stimulating.” “This
issue will become a reference Work.”
“Please send me four more copies of the
January issue. It really is good.” “Sel—
dom have I read a more interesting or

 

 

 

 

—RAD|O CITY MUSIC HALL—

Rockefeller Center

“KNIGHTS of the ROUND TABLE”
in CinemaScope
Robert TAYLOR - Ava GARDNER ' Mel FERRER
An M-G-M Picture in COLOR
and SPECTACULAR STAGE PRESENTATION

*++++Q+*t+t!

‘ TW‘WT‘K'IFTTI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Luvmhemv'fr5"“¢

hit, but its expenses were so high that, {3%, RESTAURANT
although it ran for forty weeks at an - 23:22; OPEN ¥u0MIIA.M.

loperating proﬁt, it fell short by fifty— i3“ dwéﬂ’stlmu 37W.43rd'36W.44tl1

 

 

 

 

(Ad )eiz‘zsement)

 




FOUR GREAT» WHISKBYS

“CUSTOM-MADE” mro .
ONE MATCHLESS WHISKEY

0 YOU HAPPEN TO KNOW A
D WHISKEY EXPERT.P Ifso, ask
himiwhat type of American whis-
key he considers to be the most
perfect in tarte enjoyment. (After
all, isn’t that what you are look-
ing for in your personal whiskey?)

This whiskey expert will tell
you, we are conﬁdent, that the
perfect whiskey is, and murt be, a
combination ofwhiskeys. To pro-
duce such a whiskey he would
select one whiskey for its deep
mellowness, another for outstand—
ing ﬂavor, a third for rich body,
and a fourth for superb bouquet.
Then he would “marry” these
four Whiskeys in the vat, in just
the right proportions.

Your friend, the whiskey expert,
would explain that a single
whiskey seldom possesses all
' the characteristics that make for
a perfect whiskey. Indeed, it
would be strange if this were so.
Most of the things that we enjoy
because of their ﬁne taste are not
the result of a Jingle element. For
example, you know that your
favorite coffee is a blend of dif—

PARK a TILFORD
- “PRIVATE STOCK”

ferent types of coﬂee beans; that
your cigarette is a combination
of select tobaccos.

One of the few American
Whiskeys that is produced in a
similar manner is Park & Tilford
“Private Stock.” It is a harmony
of great straight Whiskeys. Every
drop reﬂects the careful and expert
selection of four different Whiskeys
that are combined to produce a
far greater whiskey than any one
of them alone could be.

Awhiskey so produced isisheer
luxury. That is why we call
Park & Tilford “Private Stock”
America’s Luxury Whir/eey. Por-
tunately, the truth of all this is
not hard to prove. You have only
to order Park & Tilford “Private
Stock” the next time you are in
a cocktail lounge. Or, you will
find Park & Tilford “Private
Stock” at your neighborhood
store, where you will be pleased
to learn that this luxury whiskey ‘
is not a luxury in price. And, we
are conﬁdent that you will have
a new experience in whiskey taste '
and enjoyment.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




PURE AND SIMPLE . . .

Bonwit shapes the basic for south
and summer. Cool and uncomplicated,

becoming and comfortable. Wamsutta

Lusterperm pima cotton to live in
clay or night. Washable, in blue,
pink, navy or yellow. 10 to 20 By
Nantucket Naturals 25.00 Mail or
phone orders. New York White Plains
Chicago. Cleveland Boston Palm Beach

 

eight thousand dollars, a good many!
of them Stevens, of earning back its
production costs.

As his next step up the ladder, Ste-
vens became a member of the Play-
wrights’ Company, which had been
founded in 1938 by Maxwell Anderson,
S. N. Behrman, Sidney Howard, Elmer
Rice, and Robert E. Sherwood. The
idea was that they would produce their
own works. Howard died and Behr-
man dropped out. At the start of 1951,
there were four members—the three
remaining playwrights and John F.
Wharton, a theatrical lawyer who was
representing Stevens in his stage trans—
actions. It was through VVharton that
Stevens was invited to join the Play-
wrights. (Its membership has since
risen to six, Robert Anderson, a bona-
ﬁde playwright and the author of “Tea
and Sympathy,” having joined it last
October.) Stevens’ functions were to
dig up promising plays, since Maxwell
Anderson, Rice, and Sherwood couldn’t
write enough to keep the group occu-
pied, and, even more important, to
raise money. The Playwrights were
impressed by his golden touch, as well
they might have been. Some produc-
ers have to scramble for backing; Ste-
vens has been known to scratch up
ten thousand dollars, in small amounts,
merely by fitting a series of strategical—
ly placed phone calls into an already
crowded morning. Calling a business-
man in Chicago, perhaps, or Cleve-
land—both are cities in which he has
at one time or another owned large
chunks of real estate—he will say. in
an offhand way, “I was just wondering
how your money was holding out. I
seem to have a couple of new plays com-
ing up here. I don’t want to be ac-
cused of leaving you out, you know.”
And that will just about he that.

Lately, Stevens has been the principal
driving force behind the establishment
of a new theatrical organization, which
Variety believes may conceivably rival
the Shuberts’ someday, and in which
Stevens plays enough roles to make
a piker of Ruth Draper. Shortly after
he came to New York, he became
well acquainted with another stage-
minded real-estate man—Robert VV.
Dowling, the chairman of the board
of ANTA and the president of the
City Investing Company, of which Ste-
vens is now a director and which owns
the Carlyle Hotel, where Stevens has
an apartment. Through ANTA, Ste—
vens got to know Robert Whitehead,
who was helping direct its play series
and was a producer on his own besides.
With these two new friends, Stevens

NEW HI'FI FONO

Musicale delivers
50 to 15,000 cycles of

stereofonic realism

 

 

 

 

The Musicale is the spark that sets your records
alive with exciting, rewarding music. It gives True
High Fidelity from True High-Fidelity Sound equip-
ment. A famous General Electric MAGNETIC
CARTRIDGE with two SAPPHIRE STYLI picks up
sound from your record. A special PREAMP and
5—WATT AMPLIFIER carries the sound to your
ears thru THREE SUPERB SPEAKERS. These
speakers (located in front and sides) disperse the
music in uniform “living presence” response. Special
AUDIO LEVEL and RESPONSE controls permit
accentuation of treble or bass at full power with
minimum distortion. The Musicale includes a Webcor
3-speed automatic Diskchanger. Your choice of
Blonde Korina or Mahogany cabinet.

See and hear the Musicale today Mahogany $149.50,l

*Prices slightly higher west l Blonde $15950"

and subject to change without notice

Chicago 39; illinois

 

 

Walla/1W

says: KEEP ME OOLII
arid I’ll stay

You will ﬁnd Mister\

Mustard in the “open

refrigerator" section of your

food market. Zesty, robust-a

man's mustard—yet women like

it too. Made from an old Diion
formula—it's America's ﬁnestlkh

Write for FREE Recipe Booklet. Dept.N
THE FRANK TEA & SPICE C0., CINCINNATI 2 OHIO

 




a.
'0'

presently pieced together a theatrical
deal as splendid in its ramiﬁcations as
any real-estate deal he has concocted.
The focal point of this one is the Pro-
ducers’ Theatre (president and treasur-
er: Stevens), a million-dollar corpora-
tion, ﬁfty per cent of which is owned
by a corporation known as VVhitehead—
Stevens Productions (vice—president:
Stevens) and ﬁfty per cent by the City
Investing Company (director and ten—
ant: Stevens). Of the VVhitehead-
Stevens share, fourteen per cent is
owned by the Playwrights’ Company
(member: Stevens). Except for City
Investing, all these groups—as well
as ANTA (director and patron: Ste-
vens)———have set up a joint headquarters
in a suite of ofﬁces in the Gayety Thea—
tre Building, where, since there is
only one Stevens, they are not as
pressed for space as they might other—
wise be. According to present plans,
the Producers’ Theatre, whose ﬁrst
production was “The Remarkable .‘\~'lr.
Pennypacker,” will operate on a prac-
tically non-stop, year-round basis, and
its organizers have already obtained
ten-year leases on three theatres —the
Fulton, the Morosco, and the Coro—
net—whose lights they hope to keep
constantly ablaze. The leases were not
very hard to get, since these theatres
are owned by City PlZIYhOUSCS, a sub-
sidiary of the City Investing Company.
VVhile the Playwrights will continue
to produce independently of the Pro-
ducers’ Theatre whenever they feel like
it, VVhitehe'ad-Stevens will guarantee
the Playwrights a substantial amount of
financial backing for all their shows.
“And to think that less than ﬁve years
ago Roger was monkeying around with
drama festivals in lWichiganl” a be-
wildered friend of the kingpin in this
theatrical colossus said recently.

INCE the theatre is never a placid
institution, a producer with just
one burgeoning show on his hands is
apt to feel as if he were on the verge of
bedlam. Early this season, Stevens sud—

 

cm

MAC NAUG HTON’S

[C U 5 'AV 0"

5 gaWWWJ/fﬂ

A B L E N D
' @ﬁmmm/MM mm

l W/I‘Wﬁ”

[myogm '

m: ”RFECTQN OF FINE WHISKIES SELtCTEo m
mam orsrmcnvs FLAVOR AND BOUQUET

-"'.v . .W‘;

away at V"

'A PRODUCT OF CANADA
86.8 US. PROOF

MAC NAUGHTON’S

CANADIAN WHISKY, A BLEND, 86.8 PROOF . SCHENLEY IMPORT CORPORATION, NEW YORK, N.Y‘.

 

 

 




702 FIFTH AVENUE

luxury skirts of

BERMUDA DDESKIN

Take imported doeskin skirts, our
own superb satin-finish texture,
loomed in England, designed for us

by Torre in four top ’54 styles...

including these lean-look beauties.
Six new Spring-into-Summer pastels
as well as cherry, nutria, oyster
white. Sizes 10 to 16. $39.95

imported cashmeres . . . mated to
blend, fashioned bv the incompar-
able Munro of Scotland in classic
and dressmaKer styles. 34 to 40.
The Sportster Cardigan and Sport-
ster Pullover shown, each $29.95

Mali/mum

337 NORTH RODEO DRIVE

NEW YORK BEVERLY HILLS

 

 

 

 

denly turned to a companion and said,
“I must be a madman! I am directly
involved at this instant in the production
of eight shows.” One of the reasons
he survives in his self-made maelstrom
is that he has a talent for simpliﬁcation.
Among his eight shows was “In the
Summer House,” which would have
been ready to be put on right then if it
had had a leading lady. Several people
associated with Stevens thoughtmas did
lie—that Judith Anderson, who was
then at liberty, in New York, and had
read the script, would be ideal, and, in
the customary roundabout manner of
doing things in the theatre, they began
to devise ingenious ways of, as the say-
ing goes, getting to her. One man sug-
gested to Stevens that if he called up
Joshua Logan, who was then out \Vest,
he might be able to persuade Logan
to telephone Miss Anderson in New
York and say a good word for the
play. A second counsellor proposed that
Stevens urge Elia Kazan to try to get
to her, and a third plumped for José
Ferrer. Various other important stage
names were dropped, and even ﬂung,
While Stevens listened respectfully.
Then he picked up a phone, called Miss
Anderson, and, after a minute or two
of polite chitchat, said, “You’ve been
looking for a play for quite a while.
Why don’t we sit down and make a
deal?” A few days later, she signed a
contract.

Another of Stevens’ eight shows was
“Escapade.” When he decided that he
wanted the American rights to this play,
which has to do with the vexations of a
husband and wife who have three boys
in boarding school, he simply put in a
transatlantic call to Henry Sherek, who
had produced it in England, and picked
up the rights over the phone. Stevens
thought he was buying the play for the
Playwrights to produce under an agree—
ment he had worked out with the other
members of the group. Until he joined
their ranks, it was their custom to
put on only shows of which all the mem—
bers approved, but Stevens considered
this policy impractical; he contended
that it was a waste of time and trouble,
and that too many desirable scripts
might be grabbed up by rival pro-
ducers While one laggard Playwright
was nodding over his homework. He
ﬁnally prevailed on his colleagues to ac—
cept his unseconded appraisal of scripts,
with one qualiﬁcation: He promised to
submit to them any play he wanted to
buy that touched on politically contro—
versial themes. \Vhen he bought “Es—
capade,” he thought from what he had
heard about it that it was not politically

 

 

SPRING
SONG

On the high note
of fashion, our wool
ensemble with match—
in?) print silk bodice
is perfectly tuned to
town and country
living—

In navy, beige, grey

and blue haze

Half and whole sizes

Price $195 .00

WW 4Z1“)...

118 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
88 Main St., New Canaan, Conn.

.llllllllE‘J!
“IIIIIIIII

”gunk

SPORTS AFIELD
ROOM

Music
At Luncheon, Cocktails,
Dinner and After-theater Supper
...to 1:30 A.M. '

Closed Sundays
10 East 52nd Street 0 Plaza 3-9014

 




In Philadelphia nearly everybody reads The Bulletin

(A dveﬁisement)

 




2

BEST a CO.

Fifth Ave. at 51 St, N. Y. 22, N. Y.

 

BesVs
Exclusive
*Shirtmoker

maker new; with its neat-as-a-
pin tuck Stitched bosom,
convertible collar, zipper-
concealing ﬂy front. Nylon
and rayon, tailored to
perfection. Our elegant classic
that tours the world or the
town with unending good
taste. White, navy, bluebell,
aqua, pink or beige.
10 to 20, 38 and 40. 45.00
3rd Floor

Mail and phone orders filled. PLaza 9-2000
Order by Style Number N-l
Please include postage beyond
our motor delivery areas.

AND 15 CONVENIENT BRANCHES
*Trademark

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controversial, but after the script arrived
and he had had a chance to read it he
got cold feet, so to be on the safe side he
showed it to Robert Sherwood, the only
other Playwright who happened to be
around. Sherwood glanced through it
hastily and decided that it was politically
innocuous; then he read it carefully,
as a play, and groaned. In View of this
reaction, Stevens decided there was
nothing to be gained by asserting his
right to produce the play as a Play-
wrights venture and, instead, took it to
his Producers’ Theatre1p“a1tne1s,Rob—
ert Dowling and Robert VVhitehead.
Both read it and groaned. Shaken but
undaunted, Stevens thereupon bypassed
the Producers’ Theatre, too, and put the
show on in collaboration with Alfred dc
Liagre, Jr., who was one of Stevens’
first theatrical acquaintances and who
also liked the play. “I toyed with the
idea of advertising it with the line (If
your name’s Bob, don’t come to this
play,’ ” Stevens says. As it turned out,
not many people named Bob or any—
thing else came to the play, and it ﬁzzled
after thi1teen peifm mances. '
Stexens, unlike many of the New
3' oik d1ama c1itics, admires contempo—
rary English plays. “Anybody interested
in the theatre gravitates to London
as a hungry man gravitates to a meal,”
he says. Indeed, he is so irresistibly
drawn to the stage in London (where
the newspapers, impressed with his
Empire State Building connections, re-
fer to him as the Skyscraper King) that
he has produced a play there,
With indinerent success.
in 1952, and the play was
of lVl1. Pickwick,” based on the ‘Pick—
Wick Papers.” He later brought it, aus—
terely retitled c‘lVlr. Pickwick,” to this
country, where it was a ﬂop. Stevens
makes at least one pilgrimage a year to
England; on a recent trip, he stayed
twenty— —ﬁve days and saw twenty -ﬁve
shows, including a pioduction of “Cmi-
olanus” by the Shakespea1e company at
Stratford—on—Avon, which he attended
with Sherek. After the performance,
Stevens asked, more or less rhetorically,
“Why doesn’t somebody bring this outﬁt
over to the States.P ” “VVhy don’t you.P ”
Sherek replied. The next thing Stevens
knew, he was committed to bring it over
this coming November. He has since re—
cruited his associates in the Producers’
Theatre and the Playwrights’ Com-
pany as co—sponsors. “VVhat pleases me
about the idea of having the Stratford
company here,” Stevens remarked not
long ago, “is that after all these years
I’m finally going to get to see a produc-

too——
This was early

‘The Trial

_ tion of Shakespeare in this country in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our' 'self-ironing"
breeze-weave DAC RONAIR

A wonderful and very new sport shirt
for resort wear. Its cool open-weave
fabric of Dacron and. cotton washes
and dries in a wink. Requires no
ironing. The unlined, round point col-
1211 is unusually comfo1table and
smart In beige, maize, light blue or
white with sh01t sleeves. ,M, L or
XL. $8. 95

Please add 356 per package on mail orders.

695 Fifth Avenue (at 54th Street)
New York 22. N. Y. PLaza 9-1225

2:06.006600600000069000063;

TURTLES

BRAND

Made Only by

:%%8 (‘3. m

I77 N. FRANKLIN ST., CHICAGO 6 ILL

SOLD AT lEADING CANDY COUNTERS EVERYWHERE

Truly oﬁ the Beaten Track

 

BRITISH WEST INDIES

Tropical, tranquil,
tensionless—is Tobago of J 1"
Robinson Crusoe fame! ‘ '
Devaluated currency
favors you. Information,
folder; from Travel Agent;
or write to

Trinidad & Tobago Tourist Board

Dept. l2, I22 E. 42 St., New York l7l N. Y.
Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, B.W.|. 0 Montreal 0 London

 




With the Bendix

Duomatic, you actually
get a complete laundry . . .

 

 

in just 36 inches of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wall space. This one
machine washes, then
fully dries your clothes . . .
automatically. All you do
is take them out. . .

ready to wear, iron or

put away!

 

"It’s a washer,
it’s a dryer,
it’s everything.
That’s what
delights me."

Mrs. C. A.
Sharpless,
Atlanta, Georgia

 

 

 

Set the dials just once; the

"The best surprise is the way it washes. I've Bendix Duomatic washes, rinses
, 17 . . 0

never had clothes come out so clean. and completely dries—1n a Single,

Mrs. h ' ' ' .. _
Jo n Self, ChIcago, mmo's contlnuous operation. Or you can

That’s because the Duomatic washes a new use the Duomatic as a washer only
way—by bi-lz'ft, deep surge Tumble Action that . . . as a dryer only. It’s completely
opens every fold to jets of hot, sudsy water. versatile. You can even stop it to add
Bendix Magic Heater keeps washwater hot or remove clothes. (A handy trick
and hard-working. That’s another reason when you ﬁnd junior’s SOCkS under
Mrs. Self’s clothes sparkle with cleanness the bed.) '

 

 

 

 

 

WAS H E R. RYE R ALL. I N . ON and 3:133:12: All-in-one . . . or . . . side by (side

dryer all-in-one

at your Bendix n THERE'S '\
Dealer’s now! NOTHING . 7, »
' See why the _* QUITE lIKE
women who A BENDIX FOR WASHING . . . FOR DRYING
already haye
32331133355: Please send me the booklet that an-
about the way swers 59 questions about the Duomatic.

it works.

|
|
DUO r l
coupon at rig t, Add
ma to send for the l ress
I
|
I
I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name

 

City State

Mail coupon to:
BENDIX HOME APPLIANCES,Dept.X—249

fascinating

ton m booklet that will

GeEELOKaegogyoh BENDIX HOME APPLIANCES answer all your
‘ H k ' Av - . questions a Opt 1329 Arlington,

(its? ouse eeplr‘lg CO Manufacturmg Corp the Bendix Cincinnati 25, Ohio

0 o o o o .
‘Hovunsw‘m CmcmnatI 25, Ohm Duomatic. L___..._.._

L..___________

 




which I can understand more than two—
thirds of what’s being said.”

OWA'DAYS, when reﬂecting on

his early life, Stevens sometimes

gives the impression that his story is in
the American tradition of the penniless
boy who becomes a successful graduate
of the school of hard knocks, and he is-
fond of saying that during the early
thirties he was often without streetcar
fare. He was, all right, but the actual
pattern of his experience was not so
much that of the penniless boy as that
of the penniless young man. He was
born in Detroit, the son of a well-to-do
real-estate man, and was brought up in
Ann Arbor. At the age of fifteen, he
entered Choate, where he had a fairly
unhappy time of it. He has always found
it difﬁcult to form close friendships,
and even now some of the people near—
est to him regard him as uncommonly
aloof. “I was very much of a mess at
prep school,” he says. “I was just the
kind of a boy parents don’t want their
children to be.” In 1928, when he was
halfway through his senior year, with
his tuition only half paid up, his father,
spectacularly anticipating the depres-
sion, fell on hard times, but Choate
considerately let the boy complete the
' year and graduate, on the house. Ste-
Vens had already applied for admission
to Harvard, and was presently accepted,
but his father’s economic distress put
an end to that plan. He enrolled in—
stead at the University of Michigan,
which, since it is in Ann Arbor, he
could attend while living at home. (His
mail while he was a freshman at Mich-
igan consisted largely of invitations,
forwarded from Cambridge, to débu-
tante parties that weie being given in
the vicinity of Boston.) Stevens quit
college after his ﬁrst year, having been
unable to work up an interest in his
studies and having found no extracur-
ricular activities, aside from card games,
that appealed to him. He was then nine-
teen. “The truth of the matter is that I
was quite a good—for-nothing,” he says.
By this time, Stevens’ father was
just about broke, which meant Stevens
was, too. With no particular object in
View, he went to Detroit, where, be-
tween 1930 and 1935—the limits of
what was indisputably his hard-knocks
period—~—he lived as best he could. He
took various odd jobs; he sold a pint or
so of his blood every now and then; and
for one four—month stretch, he worked
on a Ford assembly line. His job there
was to grab one—and—a-half—inch rough-
ﬁnished gears off a belt as it passed by

him, and hold them against a moving

at.-. ,. .
FEBRUARY 13 , 19 5%

:_VITI.E.’.RoyaI Copenhagen

Love birds in ﬁne underglazei'l

porcelain. White On grey- green

libase 5V2” high $27 50

, ' wRiTE FOR ILLUSTRATED FIGURiNt-z FOLDER,”

MAIL AND PHONE ORDERS FiLLED- PL 1-2400'1'5. :

., . atone JENSEN INC
Jlgk Fifth Ave. at 53rd Street, Ne "York 22

 

 

 

ENGINEERS

and

PHYSICISTS

l

LGROUND AND AIRBORNE RADAR
FIRE CONTROL SYSTEMS
L. _________________

L. G UIDED .M I SSI LE S YSTEIMS

Inquiries
are invited
reg “T ding MINIA TURIZATION AND
openings ADVANCED PACKAGING
on our

Stay?” in the
ﬁelds of

ANTENNAS AND RADOIlIES

l.— _________________
INDICATOR AND

MICROWAVE TUBES

 

SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES

HUGHE S

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
SCIENTIFIC AND ENGINEERING STAFF

Culver City, LOS Angeles County, California

Assurance is required that relocation
of the applicant will not cause the dis-
ruption of an urgent military project.

 




WE" NEW YORKER

steel brush to rub the burr off. While
he was thus employed, the management
began to accelerate the plant’s output——
the famous Ford speedup of that era.
Stevens tried valiantly to keep pace with
the belt as it flowed toward him at a con—
stantly increasing rate, for he was get-
ting thirty dollars a week, which was
good pay then, but after two weeks of
the speedup, by which time the brush
had rubbed as much skin off his hands as
burr off the gears, he was ﬁred in the
course of a general layoff. ,
For a while after this, Stevens had
two jobs. By day, he worked as a real-
estate broker; his commissions after six
months totalled exactly nothing. By
night, he worked at a gas station, where
the rewards—~twelve dollars a week—
were more satisfying. In what off hours
he had, he took to frequenting public
libraries, for his attitude toward the ac—
quisition of knowledge had changed
markedly. “I read all the stuff I should
have read in college but probably
wouldn’t have read in college,” he says.
At ﬁrst, he was guided in his selections
by a schoolteacher who had a room in
the boarding house he had moved into,
and before long he was reading four or
ﬁve books a week of his own choice. His
choice ran mostly to works by Fielding,
Joyce, Mann, VVolfe, Proust, Shake-
speare, Shaw, and Pirandello. He has
been a relentless and retentive reader
ever since. “Of all the things that can
make a person happy,I’d put literature
ﬁrst,” he says. “lV/lany people need other
people around them, but I don’t if I’ve
got books. I like the people in books bet-
ter than most people I know.” Stevens
sometimes amazes the people he knows
by saying to them as he abruptly said
to one ﬁabbergasted mortgage broker
recently—“Have you read ‘Decline of
the West’ lately?” Once, while dis-
cussing with a friend a speech on the
future of investment properties that
Stevens was preparing to deliver before
an audience of a hundred and ﬁfty cor—
poration presidents, he said, “I’m going
to surprise them. I’m going to start out
by quoting Marx. VVell, not really
Marx. I never could read him. He al-
ways put me to sleep. But I’ve read
Strachey on Marx, and I’m going to
start with a reference to that. Do you
think I’m crazy? Most people start off
speeches by telling jokes, but I don’t
know any jokes.” Another friend of
Stevens’ said recently, “Roger has a
consuming ambition to win recognition
on an intellectual level. He’d rather
have a good notice from Atkinson than
make a mint. hdy guess is that he’s try-
ing to prove to himself that not going to

“Careful, Colonel! Don’t waste a drop—that’s Old Smuggler."

SCOTCH
with 2 HISTORY

IMPORTED BY W. A. TAYLOR 8!. COMPANY, New York, N. Y.

Sole Distributor: for the U. S. A.

BLENDED
SCOTCH
WHISKY
86
. PROOF

 

a, W‘JKVLORLCOMPANV “-

‘3“!“0l‘ roe

 

 

Fortunes of War

Over in Casablanca during the War,
writes P. N. Hutchings of Cassopolis,
Michigan, we all drank a lot of wine. It
was cheap wartime stuff, but about all
we could buy. One night in a small cafe
a bunch of us unearthed a bottle of Old
Smuggler. At ﬁrst the owner wouldn’t
sell it but he ﬁnally agreed to let us have
it for a mere $50. I’m mighty glad I no
longer have to pay that kind of money
for Old Smuggler—but its ﬂavor is still

so ﬁne no one ever willingly wastes a drop.

Friends of Old Smuggler are cordially
invited to write us interesting stories
about Old Smuggler. Your letter will
make you a member of “THE ANCIENT
SCOTTISH ORDER OF OLD SMUGGLERS”
and en title you to a handsome member-
ship certiﬁcate suitable for framing, illus-
trated in full color by Abner Dean—~and
inscribed with your name. Send your letter
to W. A. Taylor & Company, 2West 46th
Street, New York 36, N. Y. Dept. NY—7.

 

 




RHAPSODY
TO A RADIO

Many a VVQXR listener tunes to
America’s Number One Good-
Music Station on a Zenith FM-AM
radio. Zenith knows that VVQXR’S
fine music, ﬂowing into the homes
of half a million W QXR-devoted
families, creates a demand for ﬁne
receivers. This is only one example
of harnessing the sales appeal of
good music. WQXR is one of the
most advertiset-popular mediums
in the world’s biggest market. Ask

to see the score.

The Radio Station of The New York Times

 

 

 

 

 

Harvard didn’t make any diiierence.”‘

Toward the end of 1934, Stevens,
undeterred by the failure of his ﬁrst
efforts to sell property, became a broker
with a large Detroit real—estate ﬁrm.
The real-estate market was just be-
ginning to show signs of resurrection
after the dead days of the depression,
and Stevens quickly demonstrated that
he had a knack of analyzing properties,
sensing which ones were undervalued
and then trading proﬁtably in those.
During the last six months of 1935,
he earned ten thousand dollars in com-
missions, and from then on he was roll—
ing. l\/Iuch of his business was in apart—
ment-house bonds, which, as a result
of the depression, were selling at only
a tiny fraction of their face value.
\Vhen Stevens saw something that
looked promising, he would approach a
likely investor and olier‘ to waive his
commission; instead, he suggested, he
would split with the investor whatever
proﬁts might result, and would agree
that he was not to receive anything
until the investor had realized a ﬁfty-
per-cent return on his money. Frequent-
ly, to the gratification of both Stevens
and his client, the original investment
increased at the rate of several hun-
dred per cent a year. By 1937, when
Stevens was twenty—six, he had been
in and out of a lot of apartment houses,
was making twenty-five thousand dol-
lars a year, and had accumulated a
nest egg of fifty thousand. “I wish
I’d been ten years older then,” he said
not long ago. “Any mature person
with any brains could have made a lot

of money.” -——E. I. KAHN, JR.

(This is the ﬁrst of two articles
on ﬂIr. Stevens.)

Nobody knew Harold L. lckes was
keeping a dairy. But every day this un—
usual man wrote down or dictated every-
thing he learned about everyone he knew.

This all happened when lckes was Sec-
retary of the Interior in the Roosevelt
Administration. The dairy reveals the
hopes, ambition, intrigues and quarrels of
men like Harry Hopkins, Jim Farley, ‘.\Ir.
Roosevelt, Henry Wallace, Frances Per-
kins and Gen. Hugh Johnson.

The dairy was not discovered until after
leeS’s death—Baltimore Sun.

Some bull must have known about it.
C

THE IVIYSTERIOUS EAST
[ride in the Honolulu Snooper]

hlUSA—SHIYA, The Shirtmaker

31y only shop sitting on 2164 Kalakaua.
.\Iy present remains are your iaithly and
hopes to meet your face. Kimono, pajamma
need no introductory—it could describe
out itselfs.

 

eraWigwam2ﬂatwarewere2.1222224225921222???rial/air

.,
sq. --

.u...a~-
v“ we q-c .

rift airtime/ail

ﬂ

,. . Q's-s.“ «- \‘Ipr

mammal?

ﬂitt'ttitiiwwWilma»)???Wit)"W'lelgyzzti'zti‘z9/7332ﬂirt/.779;

....~..n....-...._.. ..._..~_.._. ..we..-..-..--..;-..;>.~.-...ru.' ..

\

~q nucgyawgww.g‘o‘.a
‘ r .
. IIIIII'W i

retrial/171

.1( .k.

I

COLORFUL WAISTCOATS
IN ENGLISH MATERIALS

Small wonder that Rogers Peet’s
Fancy Waistcoats are so remark-
ably good! We are one of the best-
known importers of ﬁne British
materials and one of the best-
known makers of Men’s Fine
Clothes. Waistcoats in colorful Eng-
lish Foulard Silks are $23.50 . . .
and in English Wool Challis $ 18.50.

Sizes 38 to 46,
Regulars and Longs

(iii?

.‘W.‘. on .‘~'~ I-

r

.7 W

l.

7'71?! 7..”WHIP/7.WWW?!”

,?

ZZZZI’ZEZLZIZZ/llflm

It.

~13. .. we. .w. ‘ on

W

KIWYW

sq - .an-wu- !‘ ‘ Q

l
i

)9

{ﬂ

Ideal as Valentine Gifts

MAIL ORDERS INVITED
Add 270 shipping charges
beyond New York United Parcel zone.

On New York City deliveries
please add 3% Sales Tax.

(ggywsl (@665 (gerrymaﬂ

NEW YORK - BOSTON

it’ll '.

r- a--. .-.. - .- wQ r-nw-

mm

'7

W1tritr/tfjiimg/W,y,~,,,”Wm”

o..-.‘C‘OblovVOODUDI..-out‘.....v‘~uo§~_b|b.0t0

Write:
. Rogers Peet, 5th Ave. at 413i St., New York 17, NY.

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ourvvcrv’-..ao...u

‘"’W’ii’iz’i'iﬁiiii5i??W(7’(‘WM/M’i’i‘(ﬂWWWi’r’i’i(’iiﬂ‘ili‘(’ﬂiﬁ(fﬂl7” r“ ,
M

I

I“ WWII W 9)

 

From

Denmark

in sterling

with inlaid

blue enamel.

Curved spoons.

Straight spoons avail-

able. Giftboxed at
$53.00. Separately: Baby
ﬁle-“OI" spoon or pusher, $6.50; Child's
. , spoon, knife, fork or napkin
(hlld 5 SCI ring, $l0.00 each, Fed. Tax incl.

H “Its HANDWROUGHT
O

DANISH SILVER
1 East 58 St., New York 22. At the Savoy-Plaza

“Forget-

ARPEGE

LANVIN

Extract and Toilet Water

 




ned?” P R O F I L E 5

CLOSiNGS AND OPENIN GS~|I

POSSIBLY apocryphal story in
the gossipy world of bankers,
brokers, and other dealers in
large ﬁgures concerns a meeting some
time back of two real—estate men who
themselves deal in ﬁgures that are not
exactly small—William Zeckendorf
and Roger Lacey Stevens. According
to the story, Zeckendorf and Stevens,
who between them control some three
hundred million dollars’ worth of prop-
erty, were comparing notes one day,
and in thecourse of their conversation
Zeckendorf remarked, “You know,
Roger, I believe you’re the greatest
operator of them all,” whereupon Ste-
vens, who habitually wears an air of
difﬁdence, at once replied, “Oh, no,
Bill, you are.” Zeckendorf unexpect-
edly took him up On it, saying, “O.K.,
Roger, I guess you’re right. But if
I’m the greatest, you’re the second
greatest.” Shortly after this conver—
isation is supposed to have taken place,
Stevens organized a syndicate that
bought the Empire State Building for
ﬁfty—one and a half million dollars, the
highest price everpaid for a single build-
ing in the history of the world, and it
was not long after that that Zecken-
dorf’s company, Webb 81 Knapp, Inc.,
bought the Chrysler Building and
enough satellite buildings to bring the
total price of his purchase to an even
ﬁfty—two million. Stevens has been con—
tent to let Zeckendorf have the higher
price tag as long as he has the higher
structure. “You can juggle ﬁgures all
you like,” he once said, “but there is
only one Empire State Building.”
VVhatever their ranking, Zeckendorf
and Stevens are quite a pair, and com—
parisons between them are made with
some frequency these days. Actually,
they are not at all alike. Stevens, a
casually dressed, soft—spoken, fairly in-
articulate man of unassuming appear—
ance, spends at least half his time not
dealing in real estate at all but put—
ting on Broadway shows; in the past,
his ﬂair for making money on closing
proﬁtable real-estate deals has been
neatly balanced by a ﬂair for losing it
on opening unproﬁtable shows (“Mn
Pickwick,” “An Enemy of the People,”
and “Barefoot in Athens,” among
others), although this season, having
been largely responsible for the produc-
tion of such Broadway hits as “Tea and
Sympathy” and “Sabrina Fair,” he
seems to have learned the trick of com-
ing out on top whether he is closing a

deal or opening a show. Zeckendorf,
an impeccably tailored, stentorian, elo-
quent man with a ﬂamboyant air, is his
own show. His ofﬁce, elegantly, deco-
rated with trick lighting fixtures and
captive trees, and densely populated
with suave staff assistants, looks like
something out of Home 69 Garden, his
home looks like something out of “Kind
Sir,” and he shuttles between these two
dazzling establishments in an elongated
limousine (a Chrysler) with the legend
“l-WZ” on its license plate. Stevens has
a staff of only tvvo people, who share
with him a cramped and grubby cubicle
in the Empire State Building that he has
borrowed from a window washer; his
ﬁles are kept not in custom—built cabi-
nets, as Zeckendorf’s are, but in old
cardboard packing cartons strewn about
the ﬂoor. Stevens does not have a car
in New York (Where, conceivably to
Zeckendorf’s chagrin, the words “Em-
pire State” are inscribed on the li—
cense plate of everybody’s car, including
his own Chrysler), and his home here
is an eight-room apartment, which, al—
though he, his wife, their ﬁfteen-year-
old daughter, and a fourteen-year-old
poodle have been living in it for a year
now, is still only half furnished. Zecken-
dorf, a man who travels widely, confers
with his real—estate associates by tele-
phone every weekday, no matter what
distant part of the world he may be in.
Stevens also gets about, but he is inclined
to neglect to let his associates know ex-
actly where he is, with the result that
he is sometimes unavailable to them for
a week at a stretch, even though he may
be physically no more remote than Hart-
ford.

Zeckendorf says that the only resem-
blance between Stevens and himself is
that they both are bald. “And at that
he’s thin and I’m fat,” he adds. This
is a relative estimate. Zeckendorf’s eat-
ing habits are those of a determined
gourmet, verging at times on those of
a gourmand. Stevens can take fancy
foods or leave them alone—when he
has a play in production, and his stomach
is jumpy, he has been known to sub-
sist exclusively on dry Martinis, pea
soup, and cheese—but, notwithstand-
ing Zeckendorf’s charitable appraisal of
his bulk, he, too, has a tendency toward
stoutness. From time to time, Stevens
tries to combat this by killing his appe-
tite with tobacco, to which he has
a long—standing antipathy. When he
is in a reducing mood, he smokes quan-

\

Roger L. Stevens

tities of cigars. “I loathe the damn
things,” he once said while lighting up
an innocuous—looking stogie. There is
no one brand that he particularly de—
tests; he will puff, and gag, on any
old kind, provided it does not strike him
as ineffectually bland.

Stevens and Zeckendorf run into each
other every now and then. At one meet—
ing a couple of years ago, Zeckendorf,
who, at forty-eight, refers to Stevens,
who is forty-three, as a “young man,”
suggested that they pool their formi-
dable talents. Stevens was to take over
Zeckendorf’s job as president of Webb
& Knapp, and Zeckendorf would be-
come chairman of its board. Had the
proposed. merger gone through, it
would probably have had an effect on
real estate similar to the one that the
creation of United States Steel had on
heavy industry, but Stevens declined
the offer, feeling that bOth he and
Zeckendorf operate best in the role of
lone, if far from hungry, wolves. As
competitors, moreover, they have a
livelier relationship than they might
have as partners. Last fall, soon aft-
er Zeckendorf picked up the Chrysler
Building, Stevens and some of his co-
proprietors of the Empire State invited
him to lunch in their building in order
to congratulate him in a straightfor-
ward, if unavoidably condescending,
way on owning the second-highest
building in the world. They even ar-
ranged a press conference to com-
memorate the occasion. This was held
in a room where scale models of the two
buildings rested on a table behind which
the guest of honor, and various of his
hosts, could be photographed. With no

half mile in between to soften the con-

 




\

.42.

trast, as there is in real life, the Chrysler
Building loOked pathetically puny
alongside the Empire State. Zeckendorf
stalked fearlessly into this enemy terri—
tory, stole the ensuing headlines by an-
swering all the questions asked by the re—

porters (he later said that he had waited .

politely for his hosts to answer them,
but that they had seemed to be struck
dumb in his presence), and, when the
photographers aimed their cameras,
came within a hair of achieving a real—
ly remarkable triumph by deftly pick—
ing up the model of the Chrysler Build-
ing, as if to examine it, and elevating
its spire above that of the model of
the Empire State. “The damn-fool
photographers muffed it,” he lamented
afterward.

Although Stevens attended the party
for Zeckendorf, he rarely turns up for
the receptions that are held at the

EmpireState Building for other distin-
guished visitors, like touring royalty,
who come to see it and the view from

it. “I try to duck that sort of thing,”.

he explained recently. “It’s too time—
consuming. I haven’t been on top of
the tower in a year.” His ﬁrst ascent
was made a couple of years ago, when
he and some of his colleagues were being
shown around shortly before they were
to take over the premises. Construction
on the television mast was then in prog-
ress, and the new owners were led to
some scaffolding, which consisted of
narrow planks of wood edged with
chicken wire, and were urged to walk
around the tower on it. Stevens, who
suffers mildly from acrophobia, looked
down, turned green, clutched a nearby
metal upright, and said, “You boys
walk around. I’ll wait.” Later, he
picked out as his oﬂice a cubbyhole, no

“Here, young lady, [1% do that!”

more than eight feet wide and twenty
long, on the ﬁfth floor.

TEVENS never puts himself out
to dispel the impression that the
course of his career has been the classical
rags—to—riches one, although as the son
of a once prosperous Detroit real-estate
man who was all but wiped out during
the late twenties, he has followed a
course that might be more accurately
described as riches-to-rags—to-riches. It
was riches to rags when, because his fa-
ther was unable to send him on to Har—
vard after he graduated from Choate, he
kicked around Detroit during the early
thirties, living in furnished rooms, read—
ing in public libraries, and barely sup—
porting himself by a miscellany of odd
jobs. Once he got into the straight rags—
to—riches stretch of the course, however,
he followed the conventional pattern by
getting married as soon as

he felt he had enough mon-

ey in the bank. That was in

1938. Stevens, who had

been ﬂat broke three years

earlier, and had spent the

intervening time amassing

ﬁfty thousand dollars by

some brilliant broken—ﬁeld

running in the Detroit

real—estate market, met

Christine Gesell, a native

of St. Louis, at a party in

Ann Arbor, where the

Stevens family had been

living for some years. Her

family had moved to that

town when she was ﬁve,

and she had just ﬁnished

her sophomore year at the

University of .Michigan.

She told Stevens that she

wanted to leave school

and get a secretarial job,

and Stevens, somewhat

mellowed by the party,

said grandly, “I’ll ﬁnd

you one.” Despite a flow—

ery recommendation he

wrote for her, she was

turned down everywhere

she went, for her qualiﬁ-

cations were not impos-

ing; she didn’t know

shorthand and could bare—

ly type. Finally, Stevens

gallantly hired her himself.

Then he went off on a

business trip. VVhen he got

back, he discovered that

she had furnished his ofﬁce

with a hideous, eggplant—

colored carpet. Soon there-

after, they got married,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




MAIL
ORDERS

FOR THESE GREAT
PLAYWRIGHTS’ COMPANY

'5'“ ANNIVERSARY PRODUCTIONS

TON

NELNUNE

E! S New PIGY

lUAN

TET'LEL

11101 0W“

RTCE
1hr“ May

00‘.
.. 511,3..-

0 O
wnh WHITFIELD CONNOR ENE
Directed byFe

Order Nors1i°;1.; ‘ Ma
h $ . L 11

IIVCS‘. 0}c1§0, l-liigeb 22)): “hereafxsrz

. (“'in 011-, Mew. $3.0 , ..

1.80.1’riees include tax.

3.36
AYHOUSET 131 West 48th St.,N
PL

Adapfed by

RICE
MDirected by ALFRED LUNYI'ALENCY
ordeusm by VIRGIL THOMSON
r Now for April-May-June

I‘ves (Mei
(1511' 1111 Thu
o‘ll-igliklous) $7 30. 181%,.) 9,1400 Divans
sari)$3 '1?” 30° 3-40 .iill'; “Z
8 ' 1.;alc1vans $7 :30. 01111, Eves.
1.8.1.1.. $330.3.oo,1a$33333
~-‘ ivans $43.3” ,. °
. _ 1,112.40 190’?ng
,ch $3. 60: 3 ' B. 011-11. ' '
46mm“ include tax.1'8
ST. Theat
r9 0 226
West 4610 St, NY. 35

cast" ' “1......-
CO 0

LUNS T
coD'Irodod E” Jr?“ “II—AP"?-

er Now
0” ._ on u .

$0 1.5.0.1’1‘111'5

. ' INNS
NATIONALTMatrmo 20H. 41$!ST..N1111

by ROBERT
AND
OHN KERR ERSON

lEIF ERICK
KAZAN SON

.. mN‘AP""May
00, I) ’ 011:“ $4. 80;

include tax '

goatre 0 243 N. 47 St. .. NJ. 35

 

and since by then neither of them could I
stand the sight of the carpet, they
took half his savings and set out on a six—
month honeymoon trip around the
world. When theyb orot back, they settled
in Ann Arbor, and Stevens, with the
cooperation of a constantly widening
circle of affluent acquaintances, re-
sumed his real-estate activities in De-
troit. Among the investors with whom
he had frequent dealings were Ben
Tobin and Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., two
Detroiters who have been closely linked
with his destiny ever since. In the world
of real estate, the three men are often
spoken of collectively as the Detroit
Syndicate. Tobin is an authentic rags-
to-riches man. He came to this country
from Russia as a boy of ten, got his start
in the business world bl selling news-
papers in Lynn, Massachusetts, and is
now the owne1 of the Hollenden Hotel
in Cleveland and the Hollywood Beach
Hotel in Florida. Glancy is a riches—to-

1954'“

viii

FEBRUARY 209

 

 

 

“BAYER THAN A OAYDBEAM.”
—-TValtcr Winchell

“ORIGINAL and FUNNY.”

——Atl. inson, N. Y. Times

ﬂ
TOM Eivru... % 3‘

theiiexilé‘iiw

yearitcb'...
VANESSA BROWN

.Robert . Neva George
Emhardt Patterson Keane

Directed by 101111 GERSTAD /

Mon.thru Thurs. Evgs. : $4.80 to l.80. Fri. & Sat. Eng.:
$6t0 l.80. Mats. Wed. & Sat. : $3.60 to l.80. (Tax Incl.)

Please enclose stamina]. sclf—midressml envelope

FULTON THEATRE. 210 West 46th Street

FNATIONAI. COMPANYJ
NOW 61h MONTH—ERLANGER THEA., CHICAGO

starring EDDIE BRACKEN
Wm. LOUISE KING

Howard Freeman 0 Lydia Clarke 0 Edward Hunt

Mon. thru Thurs. Evgs. $1.85 to 4.40. Fri., Sat. 8.
Sun. Evgs. $1.85 to $5. Mat. Sat. Mail Orders Filled

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more-riches man. His father, now re-
tired, was for many ysea1sthe head of
the Pontiac Division of General 1Vlotors.
The son graduated from Princeton in
1932 and tried to get a job in a Detroit
bank any Detroit bank. For all his
father’s connections, the banks weren’t
hiring anybody, but young Glancy per-
suaded one of them to take him on with-
out pay. To give himself the feeling of
being remuneratively employed, he de-
posited a large sum in the bank, and
eve1y pay dayt the bankg Gav e him a check
against his own account. I hen the bank
failed, costing Glancy not only his job
but his payroll money. Not long after—
ward, he began handling some of his
familys investments, and was soon put-
ting a good deal of Glancy money into
attractive real—estate propositions that
Stevens called to his attention.

Tobin conducted a real—estate busi-
ness from an oﬂice in the Tuller Hotel
in Detroit. One day in 1941, Stevens,
who was trying to arrange for a client
to lease that hotel, was riding in one
of its elevato1s with some of the othet
participants in the deal when he sud—
denlyl 1ecame fed up with the slowness
of the negotiations. He hopped out of
the elevator at the next floor Strolling
down a corridor, he passed Tobins of-
fice, and, having met him casually,
stopped in to say hello. “Once I was
there, I had to have something to talk
about, ” Stevens said iecently. “lVell, I
happened to 1emem mher th at the Hollen—
den Hotel 1n Cleve land lwas up for sale,
cheap, so I said, Y on know, I think I
can buy the Hollenden fol you and ar—
1ange to have it leased, won t
have to operate it, and get you thirty

so y ou

 

“A SMASH HIT!”

-CoIemcm, Mirror

“ SOCKO SUCCESS!”

--McCIar‘n, Journal Amer.

“DANCING SPECTACULAR!”

—-Atkinson, Times

cam PORTER!
CR N-‘C‘B N

loo). Ind direction by

ABE BHRRDWS

ham and nodal 1.1.1.1.... 40304 by

MICHAEL KTDD .

“was: at Iiélﬁac 1v Mum by

J0 mammal! MOTIF?

Evgs. $7. 20, 6. 00, 4 80, 3.00, 2.40. Wed. Mats.-

34. 20 3.60, 3.00 2.40, 180 Sat. Mats. $4. 80,

4.20, 3.60 300, 2.40 I 80. (Tax Included).
SAMS. SNUBERT 44thW. ofB’ way. Cl 6- 5990

 

 

 

“EXCITING...ENGROSSING...
' ENTERTAINING”‘AT'§'.'IT3?§
LELAND HAYWARD presents

Katharine Cornell

MEAuw‘bL'PMpodaﬂé-

HOWARD LINDSNAYW and aRUbSSEL CROUSE
with FELIX AYLMER

[MINE BEN . ROGER BARTLETT
GREENE ASIAN OANN ROBINSON

Directed by HOWARD LINDSAY

BROADHURST THEATRE
235 West 44th Street
EVGS. at 8:40
’MATS. WED. & SAT. at 2:40

. 1111100
011m .

 

 

"Irresistible fun! A hit

 

 

 

 

per cent on your investment.’ The next

ﬁlled with laughs."

MColcmun,

 

J] i rm 1'

 

 

 

GEORGE KONDOLF presents
MENASHA RICHARD

SNUIIIN {WHORE
'N‘THE IEASON”

by SYLVIA REGAN Staged by GREGORY RATOFF

CORT THEATRE, 48th St. East of B'way

Tues. thru Sun. Evgs. (No Mans.) $4.80, $4.20,
$3.60, $3.00, $2.40, $1.80.,Mats. Sat. 8. Sun.
$3.60, $3.00, $2.40, $1.80, $1.20 (Incl. Tax).

 

 

 

 




THE NEW YORKEB

thing you know, Ben owned the Hol-
lenden. We had some trouble with the
people who were supposed to take the
lease from him, so I told Al Glancy
about it, and he and I ended up as Ben’s
lessees. After a year and a half, Ben
reﬁnanced the hotel, and he was able
to borrow enough money on it to buy
the Hollywood Beach for a million and
a half. The Hollywood Beach is now
worth ﬁve or six million. And all this
came about because I got bored in an
elevator. The Tuller thing worked out
ﬁne, too, after that lucky slow start. I
was trying to broker the deal, and I had

a four-o’clock deadline for a twenty-

ﬁve-thousand-dollar deposit my client
had promised to put up. At three—forty-
ﬁve, I was still shy a third of that, and
the guy representing the owner said to
me, ‘If you’re so anxious to close this
deal and think it’s so good, why don’t
you put up the rest yourself.P ’ I said sure.
I put up the third, and later sold half
of my interest to another broker. I gave
the other half to my wife, and the prop-
erty went up so much in value that she’s
been making twenty-ﬁve thousand
year on it ever since. That’s known as
the deal of deals in Detroit.”

At about the time the deal of deals
went through, the United States went
to war. Stevens wanted a commission in
the Navy, but he found that his lack of
a college degree was a big obstacle. He
consulted a Navy acquaintance, who ad-
vised him forthrightly, “Tell them how
much money you make, and I’m sure
they’ll be interested.” Stevens told them,
and was duly commissioned. He spent
two years at a Naval air station near
Miami Beach, supervising a crew that
kept oxygen equipment shipshape.
While there, he picked up a lot of in-
formation about resort hotels, and upon
returning to civilian life and the real—
estate business he, with Glancy and some
other colleagues, bought four of them—
three in Florida and one at lVlyrtle
Beach, South Carolina. Stevens has
never spent much time in any of his
hotels; he is not the sort of man to en-
joy lounging around lobbies and bow-
ing to transients. His sole interest in
hotels is ﬁnancial.

In 1949, when Stevens invaded New
York, Glancy and Tobin marched
sturdily at his side. The trio formed a
corporation here and, for eight million
dollars, most of it borrowed, took over
Realty Associates, Inc., a ﬁfty—year—old
real-estate ﬁrm whose aEairs were be-
ing liquidated; with the ﬁrm, they ac-
quired an assortment of assets, includ-
ing the Brooklyn Paramount Theatre
and nearly half of the Hotel Taft. They

have since sold these and the rest at

 

l

‘J PAMPERS YOUR BEAUTY

PROTECTS YOUR SKIN
PERFORMS EXACTLY AS PROMISED

Viva gives long life fo your

beau’ry. Viva is fhe excifing cosmefic

fhaf does as much in 30 minufes
as fhe cream you leave on
overnighf. See and feel fhe difference
in your skin. Lines. lif’rle and no’r so liHle
seem fo fill and vanish. Viva soofhes and
smoo’rhs dry or sensi’rive skin.
Viva fruly pampers your beaufy.

profecfs your skin. performs

exacfly as promised.

fRANCES DENNEY

o tradition of 50 years

 

 

in cream 4.50 - 7.50
in liquid 5.00, plus tax

beauty for over

 




RODGERS &HAMMERSTE|N’S

New M u'sical Comedy

mm

with ISABEL BILL , JDAN
BIGLEY HAYES McCRACKEN

RA MARK JACKIE
WALSTDN DAWSON KELK

Eves: $7.20, 6.00. 4.80, 3.60, 3.00, 2.40.1.80
Mats. Wed.& Sat: $4.20, 3.60,3.00,2.40, 1.80

MAJESTIC THEATRE, West 44th Street

at LAST WEEKS! m
YUL PATRICIA

BRYNNER mMORISON
RODGERSIHAMMERSTEIN’S
The K nq; and! I

A Musical Play
wiIh TERRY SAUNDERS
Eves.: $7.20, 6.00, 4.80, 3.60, 3.00. 2.40, 1.80.
Mats. Wed. 8. Sat: $4.20, 3.60, 3.00, 2.40. 1.80.

ST. JAMES THEATRE. West 44th Street

THE MUSICAL SHOW
TO SEE
WHEN IN NEW YORK

“HERMIDNE GINGOLD IS ONE OF THE
0R RLD’S FUNNIEST WOMEN.
“BILLY DE WOLFE IS GREATER THAN
EVER.” ——11awkins, W. Tele (IE Sun
“FUNNIEST REVUE IN A LONG
I --AIkinson, N. Y. Times

BILLY

JOHN MURRAY ANDERSON’S

ROMANTIC

THE SMASH MUSICAL

HARR RY TONY HDRSDN NANCI
BELAFONTE BAVAAR BEAN ORDMPTDN

IMPERIAL THEATRE, 251 W. 45Ih SI.
Evgs. $7.20 Io 2.40. Wed.

MaIs. $3.60 Io 1.20. SoI.

Mats. $4.20 Io 1.80.

'; Tax Included.

.. MAIL oa‘nens FILLED-

 

“WONDERFUL”,

CRITICS UNANIMOUS

RUSSELL

IN THE PRIZE-WINNING MUSICAL

WINTER GARDEN, B'way 8: 50 SI
Evgs. $7.20 Io 2.40.

 

 

L. MaIs. Wed. 8. Set. $4.20 to 1.80.

 

\ “A DELIGHTFUL EVENING. " —Ed Sullivan 1
JOSHUA LOGAN presents

MARY CHARLES

MARTIN“; BOYER
‘MMM Sir”

A New Comedy

by NORMAN KRASNA
with
Dorothy Margalo Frank Robert
STICKNEY GILLMORE CONRUY RUSS

, ALVIN THEA., 250W. 52 St. Mats. Wed. &Sat.
Eves. Incl. Sun... 8: -40— No Perfs. Mon.

 

handsome proﬁts. The three partners
no longer have any formal corporate
identity, but they have continued to col-
laborate from time to time, and re-
cently they were prominent in a group
that bought the Squibb Building for ten
million dollars, a sum that hardly made
any of them think twice.

N the days when Stevens was pri-
marily a hotel owner, he never
found it easy to get a room at the Ritz—
Carlton in Boston. He considers it sig-
niﬁcant that now, as a theatrical pro-
ducer who frequently takes shows to
Boston, he not only can get into the
Ritz himself but can get friends in. As
he sees it, his altered standing with the
management there is symptomatic of
the advantages a man of culture and
commerce enjoys over a man of unre-
lieved commerce. Disinterested observ-
ers, however, have pointed out that
Stevens has lately had plans afoot to
put up a seventy-ﬁve—million-dollar
business center in Boston, and that this
may have something to do with the
cordiality of his reception at the Ritz.
The idea of the center, which is by far
the most ambitious undertaking he has
tackled yet, came to him about a year
ago. No matter where he is, he views
the landscape with a real-estate man’s
eye, and during his frequent trips to
Boston in the interests of the theatre he
fell to brooding about the vast and
dreary yards of the Boston & Albany
Railroad, which cover twenty—eight
acres of the Back Bay section, or more
than twice the area of Radio City. Last
spring, after a number of conferences
with the mayor of Boston and other in—
ﬂuential citizens, Stevens announced
that he had taken an option on the land
and proposed to use it as a site for four
ofﬁce buildings, ranging in height from
seven to forty stories; an eighteen-story
hotel, with a motel attached; garages to
accommodate six thousand cars; a su—
permarket to accommodate seventy
thousand shoppe1s; and random swim-
ming pools, ice— skating rinks, dance
pavilions, and exhibition] ialls. He has
organized a cartel of architects, among
them \Valter Gropius, to plan this en-
terprising project, which he hopes will
attract housewives from all the myriad
suburbs of Boston. He is aware that this
hope runs counter to the current trend
of decentralization in shopping, but he
takes a conﬁdent stand in defense of his
position. “I think women like the ro-

.mance of going downtown to shop,”

he says.

Stevens is uncommonly indifferent to
money. “I never try to accumulate
money, as witness the way I throw it

 

DIRECT FROMITO KYO

” S. H U R0 Kiwm: THE COOPERATION or E

H. I. H. PRINCE TAKAMATSU and the
JAPANESE MINISTRY of FOREIGN AFFAIRS
presents for the EIRST TIME IN AMERICA

THE AZUMA

Isa bee RS

DRO'OQERS
andMUSICIANS

TWO DIFFERENT PROGRAMSN

NOW thru SUN. EVE., MAR. 70 2nd PROG.:
TUES. EVE., MAR. 9thru SUN. EVE. MAR. 21

Eves. Incl. Sun. 8:.30 Mats. Sat. 2:30 &
Sun. 2:.45 No Mon. Perfs. Special Hol. Mat.
Mon., Feb. 22 (Washington's Birthday). No
Perfs. Mon. & Tues. Eves" Feb.

23. 23.
CENTURY THEA.,7th Ave. 8: 529th St. I I

 

 

 

 

 

“ENCHANTED"—TIMES, NEWS, HERALD TRIBUNE

MAURICE EVANS
in ossociaII‘On with GEORGE SCHAEFER preserm

DAVID JOHN R
WA_-Y-_NE “FORSYTHEI, ii,

A New Comedy by
‘ . -' JOHN PATRICK
“if-III, , lAdopIedIIOtheNovery VernSneIden

Ul'h
PAUL WILLIAM

. lARRY
roan cuts ' HANSEN

and

MARIKO NIKI J
I . P'OdUCIiOD D lecied by ROBERT LEWIS 'I'
Evgs. 8:4.0—Mon Ith 1hurs.: $4. 80- l. 80 FIi. 8.501. Evgs.:
$6. 00- I. 80. MaIs. Wed. 8. Sci. 2. 40—53. 60- I. 20. (Tax Incl.)
MARTIN BECK THEA., 45th SI. W. of 8th Ave.

 

“MOST DUTRAGEOUSLY DUTRIGHT FUN
OF THE SEASON." —HEWE$, SATURDAY REVIEW
CHERYL CRAWFORD

in associchon with Anderson Lawler preterm

FRANCHOT TONE .,.\Q\
/2,./Ize/z/ ‘v‘eéfs

o. COMEDY by EDWARD CHODORDV

GIG YOUNG 0 BETSY VON FURSTENBERG

HENRY'MILLER‘S Them. 124 W. 43 SI. BR 9-3970
Evenings III 8:40. Matinee: Thurs. 8. Sat. at 2:40

"Julie Harris is RADIANT!" --Atkinson. Times
"Edna Best Is WONDERFUL!" -Chapman. News

JULIE HARRIS
EDNA BEST

4%

ELI WALLACH 0 SAM JAFFE

LDNGACRE THEA., 48th St. W. of B'way
Eves. 8: 40. MaIs. Wed. 8: Sat, 2. 40

 

YPAUL GRSGORY presents '
lLOYD

FONIJA HODIAK NOLAN

in HERMAN WOUK’ S

(AINE MUTINY Mast.-

DirecIed by CHARLES LAUGHTON

PLYMOUTH Then. 45 SI. W. of B‘y. (I 6-9156
Evenings 8:30. MuIs. Wed. 8 Sat. 2:30

 




You have a wide choice . . . if smoke is all you
want out of a cigarette.

But if it is your habit to search for some-
thing a little better, a. little different, then you
will be interested in d.L1l\’laurie1'.

du lV'Tlaurier comes to you in a unique box
. . . the only cigarette box of aluminum. It is
rather like a light, bright cigarette case that
keeps every cigarette in perfect shape.

a

Through the duMaurier ﬁlter—the most
widely used filter in the world—you draw a
far better, safer, richer smoke. duMaurier is
a blend of exceptional quality domestic leaf
and specially reserved oriental tobaccos.

duMauriers cost more because more was
put into them. Today, when you ask for
cigarettes, say "dulVlaurier”...and see how
much more than just a smoke you can get
out of a cigarette.

when only the best will do . . .

u MA RIER

the cigarette in the , =minum

FOR PETER JACKSON {OVERSEAS} LTD.

 




”‘39"

Having always been fond of holi-
days, we got to mooning the other night
about Mrs. Washington’s boy, George.
How in the world did he ever ﬁnd the
time to do all he did—surveyor, land
developer, farmer, Virginia gentleman,
member of the House of Burgesses, man
of many business affairs, delegate to the
Continental Congress, soldier, states-
man? And he was the rule, rather than
the exception in those days.

Later,
right through the early 1900’s, it seems
to us businessmen drew into their shells
and became more and more business-
like. The golden rule of success seemed
to be “keep your nose to the grind-
stone.” Husbands lived in a world wives
knew little about -— that mysterious
place known as “the oﬂice.” Business-
men had little time for anything but

business.
But in recent years, hap-

pily, businessmen have again broadened
their outlook. We talk to hundreds of
them every year. We make research
studies. And we ﬁnd more and more of
our 800,000 subscribers active on school
boards, good government groups,
church societies, hospital boards, wel—
fare and charity organizations, local
Chambers of Commerce, and goodness

knows what else. f

. So simply is true
leadership built. Its inﬂuence is con-
structive and powerful—from town to
Statehouse to Washington. Any adver-
tiser purveying an idea, a point-of—view
or trying to build corporate acceptance
can ill afford to overlook these new
Georges. And this one magazine
reaches more of them than any other
for businessmen. Nation’s Business, a
magazine for businessmen, Washington

6, D. C.

(Advertisement)

 

 

around,” he remarked once. In ﬂinging
it about, though, he has never in return
picked up very many of the costly pos—
sessions that some men of means tend
to collect. He lives simply. The only
home he owns is a six-room house in
Ann Arbor, where he goes weekends
whenever he can and where he keeps
his only car, a Plymouth. The house,
which he bought shortly after his mar-
riage, is worth about ﬁfteen thousand
dollars. He was momentarily unhappy
when Time reported that he had re-
ceived a hundred and sixty-six thousand
dollars as a broker’s commission on his
syndicate’s purchase of the Empire
State; he explained to a friend that he
feared the report would give his neigl —
bors in Ann Arbor the wrong impres—
sion of him. (He did not say what he
thought their impression would have
been if Time had printed the correct
ﬁgure—two hundred and ﬁfty thou-
sand.) Stevens just does not care how
much money he has, and often he does
not know. He was mildly surprised, but
not upset, when his accountant, after
balancing his income and outgo for
1952, which Stevens had thought was
one of his better years, told him that
he had forty thousand dollars less at its
end than at its beginning.

The decline of Stevens’ personal for-
tune that year was partly the result of
his becoming deeply involved in politics.
As chairman of the ﬁnance committee
of the National Volunteers for Steven—
son, he was one of the Democrats’ prin—
cipal fund raisers. (He has been a
Democrat all his adult life, having been
profoundly moved during his library—
reading days by the works of Lincoln
Steffens and of such New Deal philos—
ophers as Thurman Arnold and Jerome
Frank.) Although most of his busi-
ness associates were Republicans, he
kept badgering them for Stevenson
money. He didn’t get much from them,
but he and his fellow—volunteers did
collect almost a million dollars else—
where. Quite a bit of this was con—
tributed in small sums, and all of it was
funnelled into an oﬂice that was then
shared by Stevens, Glancy, and Tobin.
Glancy, a resolute Republican, could
get to his desk only by wading through
twenty or thirty young lady volunteers
who were ripping open envelopes and
shaking out Democratic dollar bills.

The Democratic Party was not the
only special cause that dented Stevens’
personal resources in 1952. He also
made some rather large contributions
'to what he calls “Christine’s animal
stuff.” This is a reference to the Animal
Welfare Institute, a non-proﬁt corpora-

[ tion of which Mrs. Stevens is the found—

“Kn man. may Sittings; ..;,2.
Straight as when. he
Stoops in help a hog.“

 

~.;,..

50th ANNIVERSARY
BIG BROTHER MOVEMENT

 

OILS
WATER COLORS

VICTOR

DE PAUW

PASSEDOIT GALLERY

121 EAST 57

Feb. 15-Mar. 6

 

 

 

 

The Theatre Guild 8: Joshua Logan

PULITZER
PRIIE
PLAY

present

DRAMA

PICNICcmncs'

by WILLIAM INGE AIII/IIRD

RALPH MEEKER JANICE RULE
and PEGGY CONKLIN

 

Staged by JOSHUA LOGAN

MUSIC BOX, 239 W. 45 St., N. Y. 36

 

“Tingles With eXCITemeNT"—Aikinson,Times

MAURICE EVANS ..
DIAL ) '
.FOR
‘//‘ MURDER

—RAD~|O CITY MUSIC HALL—

Rockefeller Center

LUGILLE BALL - DESI ARNAZ in
“THE LONG, LONG TRAILER”

Photographed in Ansco Color
Print by Technicolor . An M-G-M Picture

11++++++1++i

 

 

 

axxxxxxxxxﬂ

W

 

Evgs. 8:30. Mon. thru Thurs.:$4.80, 1.80. Fri. 8. Sat. Evgs.:
[$6.ri.80. Mats. Thurs. 8. Sat. -2:30.$3.60,- 1.20. Tax Incl.

BOOTH THEA., w. 45 :1. Evgs 3:40 Mats Wed 3. Sat.

 

 

 

 

and SPECTACULAR STAGE PRESENTATION
The MAYOR

SAME crnnii WAY

FILET MIGNON o STEAKS o ROAST BEEF
"at its best"
68 GEDNEY WAY Closed Tuesdays

 

 

 

 

WHITE PLAINS 8-9421 0 White Plains. N. Y.

 




er and president and her husband the
treasurer, and which has its national
headquarters in the Empire State Build-
ing. (The long-suffering'Glancy is
vice-president of the Institute, even
though his attitude toward the well-
being of animals is passive, to say the
least.) Within the conﬁnes of the ani-
mal- welfa1 e world, which 18 itself rather
restricted, Mrs. Stevens, who is the
daughter of Dr. Robert Gesell, a phys-
iologist at the University of Michigan,
and the niece Of Dr. Arnold Gesell,
the famous Child psychologist at Yale, is
widely recognized as a controversial
crusader. Her appearance belies her
reputation. She is a gentle, delicate-
featured, soft—voiced woman Of thirty-
five who has always had a friendly feel-
ing toward the smaller mammals. She
founded the Animal Welfare Institute,
which is pretty much a one—woman
outﬁt, three years ago, in the belief
that there was a pressing need for an
organization that could occupy the no
man’s land lying between the embattled
forces Of the antivivisectionists, who are
vehemently opposed to any experiments
whatever on live animals, and the medi-
cal— research people, who feel they have
a right to all the animals they think they
need and arent universally worried
about the sensitivities of those they get.
Mrs Stevens does not object to the use
of animals 1n experimental labo1atories,
holding that this is necessary for the
advancement Of science, but she con-
tends that these animals should be treat—
ed humanely and that the ones that
must die should die painlessly. “The
middle course must prevail!” is the
motto of her Institute.

The middle course is a hard one tO
steer, as Ulysses learned long ago. Mrs.
Stevens Scylla is the New York State
Society for Medical Research, which
passed a formal resolution a yea1 ago
calling upon its members to have no
truck with her Institute; her Chaiybdis
is the International Conference Against
Vivisection, which recently distributed
a circular denouncing her and her
organization. Many doctors think she
is little better than an antivivisectionist
herself; the antivivisectionists assert that
she is the daughter of a vivisectionist,
and hint darkly that she maintains a
secret experimental laboratory of her
own. She does not, but she concedes
that her father’s professional research
requires him to use animals. “I am
the daughter of a kindly vivisectionist,”
she says.

Stevens plays a modest role in the
activities of the Institute. Besides pro-
viding it with rent-free ofﬁce space
and supplying a substantial part Of the

 

 

 

 

I
“hum" I"

BROOKS BROTHERS’
SPECIAL-ORDER CLOTHING
oﬁers a man many advantages

Men who desire Brooks Brothers’ outstanding
workmanship and styling, plus added individuality
Of their own,.come to our Special—Order Depart-
ment. There they may choose their own woollens
from our wide selection... specify certain variations
on our own distinctive regular patterns...and have
try-ons of partly ﬁnished suits. Thus the suit, coat,
or sport jacket reﬂects Brooks Brothers’ unsurpassed
tailoring and quality . and a man’s individual taste.

Special Order Suits, from $135 ' T OPCOdIfS, from $1 15

S paid—Order S port Jackets, from $ 85

ESTABLISHED I818

WW

Cﬁgezeﬁaasgg
,.

346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH 51“., NEW YORK 17, N. Y.
111 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
BOSTON - CHICAGO - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

 

 

 

 

 




POLKA-BOW NAVY

To give navy a new loolz, now through
Spring, Bonwit shapes it in smooth
sill: and worsted. Crisps it at the
collar with White linen. At the necle,
a poet’s how in pretty pollea clots.
Also beige. 10 to 16. By Schrader.
45.00 Mail and phone. New Yorle
White Plains Chicago ClevelandBoston

 

funds needed to make up its deﬁcits,
he faithfully attends its annual direc-
tors’ meetings. Since he is a busy man,
the most recent one lasted only thirty
seconds. (Stevens has been known to
appear at the meeting of a corporation’s
board of directors just long enough to
stick his head inside the door and shout
“I vote ‘Yes,’ ” before scurrying on to
another engagement.) Now and then,
he accompanies his wife to conventions
of humane associations, where the at-
mosphere around her often crackles with
acrimony. “The intrigues at the United
Nations are nothing compared to what
goes on at some Of those meetings,”
Stevens said recently. “Why, the doc-
tors and druggists are boring from
within now! They’ve infiltrated the

A.S.P.C.A.!”

N theory, Stevens devoteshis morn—
ings to real estate and his afternoons
and evenings to the theatre, but in prac-
tice the two become hopelessly inter-
woven. As a non-playwriting member
of the Playwrights’ Company, he may
find himself called upon any morning to
give an opinion on a script before noon,
and as president and treasurer of the
new million-dollar Producers’ Theatre,
with its ambitious plans to produce plays
the year around in the three New York
theatres it controls, he finds himself in-
volved in both real estate and the drama
on a round—the-clock basis. (Not long
ago, Stevens kept himself incommuni-
cado all one morning, afternoon, and
evening—while bankers and brokers
and playwrights and actors tried franti—
cally to track him down because he
was having temperament trouble with
the cast of “Ondine,” the opening of
which was drawing uncomfortably
near.) Stevens’ chaotic jumbling of
his two careers, while perhaps tO a de-
gree inevitable, is intensified by the fact
that he administers his affairs with a
glorious disregard for system. His
tiny staff, which is probably the tiniest
any skyscraper owner ever had, con—
sists of one male adjutant and one
female secretary. The adjutant, Nathan
S. Potter III, a real—estate expert in
his own right, grew up with Stevens
in Ann Arbor, and, before he switched
to his present position, worked for Gen-
eral Motors, another big operator. The
secretary, Patricia Foley, joined Stevens
six years ago, in Detroit, Where he was
then spending most of his time. While
she is no great shakes as a typist
and only a middling curator of files,
as both she and her employer amiably
admit, she is adept at placating out-Of—
town real-estate men who want open—
ing-night tickets at the last minute.

 

 

 

3x

. '4.
FEBRUARY 20. week a.

GOURIMETS’ .

" VARIETY OF ‘_

”DE LUXE soups f

 

 

 

 

 

...scene of New York’s
most important busi-
ness functions and its
most brilliant social
gatherings.

. . . Offering luxurious,
air-conditioned ban-
quet-meeting rooms for
large or small groups in
the popular:

TAPESTRY ROOM
CRYSTAL BALLROOM
CAFE-LOUNGE
and
PETIT SALONS
Maitre d’Hotel, PLaza 5-4100

 

 

 

 

 

 

Frank W. Regan, President

 




.. “”, we NEWYOBKER

Stevens’ abhorrence of administrative
detail drives some of his friends almost
to distraction. Although he has. oc-
cupied his office in the Empire State
Building for two years now, he has
not yet bothered to order any station-
ery with that address, and most of his
business letters are written on some old
Detroit letterheads he brought along
when he came East, with “Empire State
Building” typed on by Miss Foley at

the top. And last year, shortly after ‘ l ' With the new9 exclusive
Stevens organized a ﬁrm called the ’

Stevens Development Corporation, with ' ® '

himself as president, to \promote the Capehart—POIarOld Fllter
contemplated center in Boston, one of
his associates in that venture was dis- f01' the “E)/°€-COmf0rt Picture”
mayed to find that he was try1ng to
raiseithe millions of dollars needed for i
it with letters written on paper that
had no letterhead at all and wasn’t
even bond. The associate had a batch
of crisp, substantial-looking stationery
printed up and persuaded Stevens to
accept a couple of hundred sheets, which
he is now grudgingly using.

This distaste for fancy letter paper
may derive from Stevens’ dislike of
business documents in general. Eighty
per cent of his deals, he says, are
clinched by oral agreements, the legal
rituals that follow being little more
than formalities, even if often tedious
and protracted ones. “In spite of Arthur
Miller and all the rest of them, the
basis of' big business is trust,” he says.
In the course of‘the negotiations that
preceded his taking over the Empire
State Building, he got into a debate
with Frederick H. Ecker, the honorary
chairman of the board of the Metro—
politan Life Insurance Company, who
was then eighty-four years old and is
still going strong. The Metropolitan
held a mortgage on the Empire State,
and Stevens was anxious to prepay some
interest due on it, to clear the decks
for transferring the ownership of the .
building. There was some disagreement See the big difference _ . . see Capehart’s
over the amount involved, and Ecker, a “Eye—Comfort Picture? No eye-straining
very shrewd and vigorous gentleman glare. No irritating picture-smearing and
who acts as if his chairmanship were -fading. No, annoying reflections on the face
anything but honorary, announced dur- of the tube from lamps or windows. Put
ing a discussion of this matter that he Your Capehart TV 5“ anywhere to ﬁt
was going to be governed by an oral “ the decor of your rome—your Capehart
agreement he had made many years Eye-Comfort Picture Wlll always be

_ . . brilliantly clear and easy-on-the-eyes.
.eailler Wlth the late. John J Raskob, See this 1954 Capehart today for a thrill in
who bullt the Emplre State, and not

, _ picture viewing. Your classified directory

by any clauses, however 1mpress1ve, that lists your nearest Capehart dealer. ‘6 d ,9

Stevens’ lawyers might dredge out of , _ The CAPE‘HART. Rhapsq .y. Mag—
. *Sugges‘ed Re‘mlp’lce- niﬁcent 24-1nch Diamond-Brilliant Pic—

EIIIY Old dOCUITlentS. StCVCnS fOI‘thWIth Prices slightly higher in the South and West ture. Symphonic-Tone, Twin-Power Chas-

‘ ‘ ' sis engineered for UHF reception. New
dropped the m gument) even though thlS handsome ﬂoratone cabinet in scratch-

meant a 1035 Of Close to four hundred ' resistant ebony finish. Also available in
thousand dollars to him and his associ- r gﬁgﬁggggsrgggque ﬁnlsh. In Ebony
ates. His concession to Ecker was based ,
partly on his eagerness to get over that CAPEHART-FARNSWORTH COMPANY, Fort Wayne 1, Indiana

pﬂl‘tiCUkU‘ hurdle and Partly; some Of A Division of International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation

 

0

French Provincial styling.

The CAPEHART “Montreal?
AM-FM All-Channel UHF-VHF Tuner, Symphonic-Tone,

nograph plays all sizes, types and speeds of records auto-
matically. 21—inch Diamond-Brilliant Picture, exclusive
Capehart-Polaroid>2= Filter. $995.00*

(mm ilm’ [HI

”ﬁll-31ml?!

m
{MKWWMM
!
I
I: ~ . u

a true High Fidelity reproduction. Continuous tuning. Pho~

 

'l

 

 

 

 




54

BEST a CO.

Fifth Ave at Si St. N.Y. 22, N.Y.

 

 

 

Bests
lﬂevr
Lounge
Love

Pertly bowed corton corduroy
by Fleischman of California,
Lichtig Division . . . kitten-soft
and cozy as can be for your
every hour at home, from the
first cup of coffee to the last TV
show. Generously pocketed,
with smart zipper-concealing
ﬂy front, push-up sleeves. A
wonder to wash...in pink, blue
or maize. 10 to 18. 12.95
Mail and phone orders filled. Plaza 9-2000
Order by Style Number N-2

Please include postage beyond
our motor delivery areas.

AND 15 CONVENIENT BRANCHES

l

 

his friends maihtain, on his having
been charmed into acquiescence by the
old man’s veneration for the spoken
pledge.

Stevens thinks so little of legal docu-
ments that he has to be COnstantly cau—
tioned against signing them without
reading them. His attitude toward ap-
pointment schedules is equally cavalier.
He makes appointments readily, but
then things crowd in on him and he gets
running behind time. His real-estate
business these days often calls for simul—
taneous conferences with representatives
of the banking houses of J. P. Mor-
gan & Co. and Hemphill, Noyes & Co.
and the legal ﬁrm of Cravath, Swaine 81
Moore, all three of them situated within
a couple of downtown blocks. Stevens
is so apt to be tardy that nobody ever
shows up for one of these conferences,
which are usually held in the board
room of one or another of the three
ﬁrms, until he arrives; then word is
ﬂashed to the interested parties, and they
converge upon him. In the meantime,
the switchboards at all three august
institutions are likely to have been un-
commonly abuzz for hours with im—
portuning calls for Stevens from actors’
agents, salesmen of asbestos curtains,
and mothers of ingénues, for he is al—
most constantly on the go and, like a
busy doctor, can only be reached by
messages planted along his probable
course. In consequence, as he finally
sits down in the Morgan board room,
glancing as he does so at one of the
messages awaiting him there, he may
begin the conference by exclaiming,
“Oh, God! Now the leading lady

won’t talk to the-leading man!”

N his real-estate maneuverings, Ste-
vens is singularly unruﬂled by
anxieties that might ruﬂie other men
badly. “Roger just never lets anything
bother him,” an investment banker on
his downtown circuit said recently.
“Most other people couldn’t take the
risks he does without worrying all the
time. In a sense, there’s nothing for
him to worry about, because he goes into
big deals for the fun of it. Business is a
game to him—he’s dead set on winning,
mind you, but it’s still a game. He
makes it fun for you, too, because in
dealing with him you never have to con-
cern yourself about what you’ll get out
of it. If there’s anything in a deal at
all, you know he’s going to treat you
well. As a matter of fact, you some-
times wonderif he’s keeping track of
how he’ll come out himself.” Stevens
never had more of his rather special kind
of fun than when. he was buying the

Empire State Building. The principal

 

,a

FEBRUARY 2

as George Washington
knew it

aaasaaaaaaf'

ISIT historic °' .

Williamsburg
now and enjoy a pleasant holiday
in this charming re-created Colonial
Capital. The Williamsburg scene
brings back the days when Wash-
ington made his headquarters at
Wythe House, dined at Raleigh
Tavern, strolled through the 18th
century gardens and courted Martha
Custis. A wealth of fascinating.
things to see and do. Food and
lodgings to suit every requirement.

Annual Garden Symposiums
Feb. 23 to 27 and Marchz to6

Williamsburg Lodge
& Taverns
Double from $6.00

Williamsburg Inn
& Cottages
Double from $10.00
Write direct or
contact Reserva-
tion Ofﬁces—New
York: 630 Fifth

. . CIrcle
{3-8896 , Wash-

: .910 17th
V T l

1779,

 

RITZ CUISINE SERVED

Matinee lu

Cart“,n R ”Che‘Ons in the

GASTON l
. A
[Ce-pres..& URYSSEN’

Gen. M
MADISON a, 6'98ng

 




. r7
. w

‘5. ‘ﬂ — I
I ' i-' (

ai. '..

ill); .
',_ ,,. , .

r YORKER

1,

fﬁmt by no means only players on his

team in this particular game were '

Glancy and Tobin. The big building |' 8% 1%”W
had been erected in 1931, at a cost of ' .
ﬁfty-two million of that era’s dollars. ‘ ' i I celebrated opera star and famous hostess, says,
It didn’t do well ﬁnancially for a dec- I

ade, but by the early forties it had begun &x Sue/L W ESQ/rm

to show a proﬁt. Its annual net income _
is now more than ﬁve million dollars. . . i . | i l i 1,) I
In 1950, when Raskob died, roughly ' A I

eighty per cent of the Empire State’s HIAIRV El ii] S
stock was owned by his estate and his

relatives; ten per cent by relatives of IMPORTED

Alfred E. Smith, the building’s ﬁrst i p ,9
president; and the remainder by scat- ’ &
tered shareholders. In 1951, the own-

ers of the majority of the behemoth’s
stock decided to put it up for sale.
Stevens, who sometimes says he was
attracted to the Empire State Building
solely because it seemed to be a cheap
piece of real estate, got wind of the fact
that it might be available when he
stopped in at Hemphill, Noyes one
morning in the spring of 1951 to pass
the time of day with Jansen Noyes, Jr.,
one of the three Noyes members of the
ﬁrm. “Why don’t we stir something
up?” Stevens asked conversationally.
Noyes had just been told, in hushed,
furtive tones, by a vice-president of the
Charles F. Noyes Company, a real—
estate brokerage ﬁrm, that the Empire
State Building might be on the market,
and he now relayed this news, in a
whisper, to Stevens. (While Charles
Noyes is not related to the Hemphill,
.Noyes Noyeses, they have many deal-
ings with his company and invariably
refer to him as Uncle Charlie.) Ste-
vens said in an offhand.mann.er that , Héﬁggés
he would be interested in seeing the ”Y SUPER”
building’s audited statement and hear— _
ing a price, but Jansen Noyes hadn’t \ ithIiIERRY
been let in on any such arcane ﬁgures. i i ’ ”M;
A month later, Uncle Charlie visited
Hemphill, Noyes and disclosed that the
prospective sellers wanted ﬁfty million
dollars, take it or leave it. (This proved
to be the ﬁnal selling price; the extra

million and a half went for lawyers’ fees , , . .

- . Harvey’s Sherrles are today s smart vogue at cocktail time,
and other C988 1nc1dental to the change before dining, and for all occasions of hospitality. Since
Of ownership.) Jansen Noyes 3‘5de if 1796, Harvey’s imported wines have been preferred by
he could convey this information, to— If i discerning hosts and hostesses throughout the world.

gether with a few other statistics that IMPORTED Shemies

Uncle Charlie had guardedly passed . Harvey’s "Bristol Cream." World’s greatest luxury sherry.

along, to a “31131.11 individual, and WhEn - Harvey’s "Bristol Milk.” The only alternate to “Bristol Cream.”

Uncle Charlie consented, he telephoned . Harvey's "Bristol Dry.” World’s finest premium dry sherry.

Stevens, who was then in Detroit. In a Harvey's "Amontillado." The ideal dry wine for daily use.

strangelyiunfamiliar voice, Stevens in— Harvey’s "Shooting.” A fine medium-rich, all-occaSIOn w1ne.

structed Noyes to take an option on the ' " IMPORTED goats

building for himself, Glancy, and Tobin. g; Harvey’s "Hunting.” A renowned tawny port...soft and distinctive.

Noyes expected Stevens to come directly 3 Harvey’s "Gold Cap.” Ruby Port . . . superior in taste and quality.
,..-"“'to New York to go into details, but he
i had no further word from him for three

weeks. Noyes later learned that at the
time of his telephone call Stevens had i Imported by PARK & Tl LFORD D I 3T1 LLERS CORR, N EW ‘YORK

 

 

 

_ \ ‘I ~\ /__.__..,_
.- ;~;-:\. .I" '-

 

 




I

 

"5&5

Our Sport Driver’s
. AUTO-GRAPH

 

Available again I

When we introduced this astonishing
AUTO-GRAPH watch to sportsmen
a year ago, they bought all we could
get. Now our Swiss makers have sent
us another limited quantity. . . for those
drivers who want exact performance,
speed and elapsed time checks.

1. Auto-Graph is an accurate 17-
jewel shock-proof timepiece.

2. It is a 1/5 second stop-watch.

3. Special calibration to check speed
runs—40 to 120 mph over meas-
ured mile.

4. 3 dials synchronized to record
elapsed time of rally in hours,
minutes and 1/5 seconds up to 12

hours.

5. Time out feature allows for stops
en route.

6. Special unit counter records gal-
lons of gas used, or even counts
golf strokes.

This truly great chronograph-watch in
stainless steel case with pigskin strap is
exclusive in the world at A8617 . I nclud-
ing tax . . . . . . . $90.00

(IBERCROMBIE
6 FITCH CO.

MADISON AVE. AT 45TH ST. , NEW YORK 1 7, N. Y.
CHICAGO STORE:

VON LENGERKE 8 HNTOINE
9 NORTH WABASH, CHICAGO 2, ILL.

v

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had the mumps, and had been too em- I
barrassed about his predicament to men—
tion it or to show himself on Wall.
Street.

Stevens made a million—dollar deposit
on the Empire State Building in Nlay,
1951, and agreed to handover the rest
of the money by November 30th. In
accepting the down payment, the at—
torneys for the Raskob estate, who were
superintending the other end of the deal,

 

 

 

granted him one out: He could with-
draw from the whole business if the ﬁ—
nancial situation of the country changed
materially before August 3 lst. Like
many another current purchaser of large
real—estate holdings, Stevens decided to
raise part of the necessary cash, and reap
certain attractive tax beneﬁts, by selling
the land out from under the building
and then leasing the land back. He got
the Metropolitan Life Insurance Com—
pany to agree to be the other party, pro—
vided he could arrange suitable mort—
gage ﬁnancing. By mid—August, J. P.
Morgan 81 Co. had promised Stevens a
two-and-a-half—million—dollar loan, and
he had a few more million dollars half
promised, but he was still far short of his
objective. His attempts to Obtain mort-
gage money had got nowhere. Stevens
nevertheless announced to all concerned
that in his opinion ﬁnancial conditions
had not changed and that he considered
himself committed to go ahead. It has
since been widely conceded that he was
taking a monumental risk. Mortgage
money in the amount he required—

l somewhere around twenty million dol-

lars was the sum he had settled on as
enough—was extremely tight. But Ste-
vens, whose sensitivity to the nuances
of the money market is considered acute,
knew that toward autumn some of the
big insurance companies are usually
loaded down with incoming premium

money that they haven’t yet got around i

to investing and are in search of ways to
unload it. Before tackling any such
source of help, he persuaded the Raskob
estate to take a ﬁve—million-dollar pur—
chase—money second mortgage. Then,
although he had been turned down twice
by the Prudential Insurance Com-
pany—or, as it is usually called in ﬁnan-
cial circles, the Pru—on a, twenty-mil—
lion-dollar ﬁrst leasehold mortgage, he
approached it again, for he had reason to
believe that it was eager to ﬁnd outlets
for uninvested funds. This time, he
asked the Prudential for a ﬁfteen-and—a—
half-million—dollar ﬁrst mortgage and
offered to pay ﬁve per cent interest——
one-half per cent more than the maxi-
mum he had previously discussed. After
some deliberation, the Prudential found
this proposition interesting enough to

 

 

 

 

 

FEBRUARY 2. 0 9

 

 

you are...a particular person
who appreciates the luxury,
cuisine, and the inimitable
charm of an exclusive club
environment. . .you will enjoy
Balmoral Club.

March, April Weather is Wonderful
Easter at Advantageous Rates

NASSAU
BAHAMAS

 

Consult your travel agent or Balmoral N. Y. Office
I6 W. 55th Street, N.Y. I9 ° .IUdson 6-3070

 

SPAKLET

REFILLABLE SYPHONS

in ELEGANT
STAINLESS
STEEL

Tums ordinary tap water
into fresh SPARKLING WATER!
L °* LEWIS & c ONGER I

Avenue of the Americas at 45th Street

 

 

 

 
     
   
   
   
   
     
   
  

When the March
Winds To?“

. - snl
Brmgmg
And snee'besa

CS

- to get
T153: the Shore

For 5““, Se?

And Spring breezes'

    

GEORGE B. BRUNI, General Manager
New York Office - LOngacre 5-1114 «‘8’

94CLARIDGEr/u a

KMinter a?

ATLANTIC CITY

 

 

 

 
     

"‘t“~’"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     




 

 

 

 

 

;;;;

W YORKER

      
 

vyf

,‘W'M

only if he would also switch to it the
land—sale—and-lease-back deal he had ar-
ranged _with the Metropolitan. The
Metropolitan graciously consented to
Withdraw, and the Prudential was in,
tentatively, for thirty—two and a half
million———the first mortgage and an ad-
ditional seventeen million dollars for the
land, or just about nine million dollars
an acre. Stevens was to lease this back
for a hundred years, at an annual rental

that was to be a million and twenty.

thousand dollars for thevﬁrst thirty years
and to decrease over the next seventy
until it amounted to a mere three hun-
dred and forty thousand.

Although the Prudential had agreed
in principle to all this, it was far from
ready to hand over the money. It in-
sisted on waiting until the lease on the
land had been drawn up and carefully
examined. The examination, with corol—
lary dickering, took four solid weeks
of sixteen—hour-a—day sessions, during
which Stevens‘and his colleagues, in—
cluding his lawyer, Thomas A. Hal-
leran, a member of Cravath, Swaine 8:
Moore, fenced with a committee of in—
surance executives over details. As the
wrangling progressed, Stevens assumed
a characteristic air of lamblike naiveté.
The more the Prudential’s lawyers
raised their voices, the softer and more
trembling his voice became. He de-
clared abjectly that while hesympa-
thized with the Pru’s position, his law—
yer, Halleran, was a temperamental
dragon who, if the Pru didn’t yield on
its demands, might very well order him
to wash his hands of the deal—a course
that, by this stage of the game, Stevens
felt sure the Pru had no wish to have
him follow. (Stevens once asked Hal-
leran why it was that he always seemed
to get himself involved in troublesome
legalities in the course of closing deals.
“There’s always trouble when you try
to substitute ingenuity for cash,” the
lawyer replied.) At the end of the four
weeks, Stevens got his mortgage, and
the rental terms he wanted, but the Pru—
dential’s lawyers, perhaps piqued at not
having won any modification of the
lease—an eighty-five—page printed doc—
ument that Halleran had submitted for
their ratiﬁcation—declined to approve it
until the whole thing had been re-
printed, unchanged except that the mar-
gins were a quarter of an inch wider.
Reﬂecting on those exciting days, Tobin
says, “I was scared to death. It looked as
if Roger couldn’t get through, but he
did. If he hadn’t licked the Pru, we’d
have been dead. The million dollars
we’d have forfeited would have been

bad enough, but we could probably have

give him an oral commitment on it, but

 

 

   

 

 
 

FLY.
I N LUXU RY

B EYO N D
COMPAR’E

 

  

 

 

 

You would pay more—but you needn’t !—for the silken luxury,
the solid dependability, the incomparable prestige of ﬂying

Via Air France. Wherever you go, choose the luxury world-wide '
airline . . . magniﬁcently equipped Air France. You will be

making the choice of the world’s air-wise travelers!

 

COMPARE THE SERVICE!
You pay no more for ﬁne French cuisine.

COMPARE THE CONVENIENCE!
You pay no more for greater itinerary

choice. .with the world’s largest airline, superbly served. .with champagne or

vintage wine, after-dinner liqueur.

serving 211 cities in 76 countries.

   

% @4me —Super- Constellation luxury service
. from New York and Montreal to Paris. “The
Chicago- Parisian” direct from Chicago to Paris.

c% W —Super-Constellation
with Private “Sky-Rooms” . extra fare
. . . nonstop overnight to Paris every Friday.
5% (Mfrs/aim —by new-type
Constellations from New York, Boston
and Chicago to Paris, Milan and Rome.

AIR FRANCE

TH E LUXURY WORLD- -WIDE AIRLINE
0
SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT. OR AIR FRANCE:
New York, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, Philadelphia,
San Francisco, Washington, D. C., Havana, Mexico City, Montreal, Puerto Rico, Toronto.




 

60

 

 

 

“Uld onlY

 

"you

Recently Josef Schneider was re-

itained to do a series of baby pic~

. tures for one of America’s out—

standing photography ﬁrms, and
this country’s most discriminating

'photograph buyer. Schneider’s

, housetops, but he couldn’t

ﬁrst impulse was to go out and
celebrate and shout from the
..When
he received the retainer he agreed

that he wouldn’t publicize the
identity of his client.

Days later, still wondering why
he was chosen from the thousands
of photographers in America,
Schneider reasoned that it Was be-
cause he literally photographed
many, many thousands of individ-
uals, and all of them babies and
children. Schneider’s studio, which
looks like a Hollywood fairyland',
is devoted exclusively to thepho—
tographing of the younger set.

If you are as discriminating and
critical as a magazine editor——
'(cover of Ladies’ Home Journal,

-January 1954) and you’re looking

for an unforgettable baby picture
call Josef Schneider.

 

‘,119 W. 57th Street New York City
' COlumbus 5- 1223 i

, pieces together,

 

J * '

oifset that somehow. It was the loss of
face that would have been fatal.”
Meanwhile, Stevens had had to raise
his equity money—fourteen million
dollars, including his million-dollar de-
posit and the loan from J. P. Morgan.
He had got Charles Noyes to come in
for a million four hundred thousand by
dangling before him a hundred-thou-
sand-a-year contract to manage the
Empire State Building. The Alleghany
Corporation, an investment company
controlled by Robert R. Young, proved
good for two million one hundred thou-
sand more. Then the Raskob and Smith
families added a million fifty thousand,
mostly out of sentiment. And the Ste-
vens, Glancy, and Tobin group had
something over two million dollars more
of its own to throw into the kitty. Some
other friends of Stevens’ furnished the
relatively trifling sum of three hundred
and ﬁfty thousand. There was one more
large investor whom Stevens had been
counting on to provide the remaining
two million eight hundred thousand,
but at nearly the last minute the man
decided he wasn’t interested. On No-
vember 28th, forty-eight hours before
his deadline, Stevens advised the Ras—
kob-estate lawyers that he guessed he’d
have to forfeit, after all. Not wanting
to start negotiating all over again with
a new customer, they agreed to assume
this share if he would promise to try
to get somebOdy else to take it as soon
as possible. They even suggested a pros-
pect—Colonel Henry Crown, a Chi—
cago investor who was a director of
Columbia Pictures, the Rock Island
Railroad, and the Hilton Hotels. Ste-
vens scurried right over to see Crown’s
New York attorney, and presently the
Colonel had joined the syndicate. As a
reward for his cooperativeness, he was
made chairman of the board of the E111-
pire State Building. Stevens was pleased
with the way things had worked out.
“By the time. I was through putting the
” he said later, “I had
made everybody in the deal a buc-
caneer—each one thought he was get-
ting the edge on everybody else.” Colo—
nel Crown must have been pleased, too,
for he has since bought up the shares of
a number of his associates—including
most of Tobin’s interest in the ven-
ture and now owns more than half the
Empire State Building, or roughly ﬁfty—

two stories.

 

As Stevens was assembling his pieces,
Halleran was feverishly preparing for
the closing, which, after being postponed
once to get the margins on the lease
satisfactorily adjusted, was ﬁnally sched-
uled to get under way at nine-thirty on
the morning of December 21st in the

EEIuIAnY 2 of“;

The Double Take-

  
  
 
   
    

new partnership for a
busy life: a large holdoll
of plastic potent, 10.95

a small colt top handle
envelope—block,

navy, ton, red, 7.95

Both, plus tax. lord &Toylor
424 Fifth Ave, New York l8

”:ﬂmw 55"? ,,

TO EUROPE THIS SUMMER!

BETTER HURRY!

COLLEGE GIRLS are invited to ioin our

select conducted COLLEGE TOURS, each

limited to ten members. Excellent itineraries

covering Europe's most fascinating spots.
Sailings June 23—June 30—
July 7—July 14. Priced from $1350.

Write for descriptive folder and tuII
information.

THE CLARA
38 E. 57 St, N. Y. 22 ‘
PLaza 9-7892

I

TRAVEL
SERVICES. INC.

w

SUPERB

W o
Imam/Sm
Cuisine des Gourmets

"EXCELLENT-Le...
"TOPS IN TOWN" _

—Dorothy Kilgallen
Luncheon 12:30-3
Dinner 5:30-11 :30. from $2.50
Sunday Dinner from 3 P. M.
JUST NORTH OF THE U. N.

10th SEASON

 

 

 

 

50th Street, N. w. CUR. Ist AVE. PLaza 3-0554

 

 

SEE FLORIDA FOR $1

JUST OUT! Big 1954 book of pictu1es, facts,
prices, featu1 111g Florida HOMES FOR SA LE,
011 the beach, inland New kind of book lets you
inspect bef01e you have] miles to look. PLUS
100’s of homes, fa11ns,hide-aways in the South
and New England. Send $1 to:

PREVIEWS. Dept. Y-20

 

 

 

 

 

49 E. 53rd St.. N. Y. 22. PLaza 8-2630 __

 

 

 




 

 

 

. :-

¢ THE NEW YORKE '
, a
board room of the Bankers Trust Com—
pany’s main ofﬁces, at 16 VVall Street.
Stevens obviously couldn’t sell the land
out from under the building until he
owned. the building, but he couldn’t buy
the building until he got the proceeds
from the sale of the land. Halleran con—
cluderbthat these two steps, as well as
a hundred and two other necessary
formalities, would have to be imagined
as occurring simultaneously, and he
persuaded four title—insurance com—
panies to accept this premise. Then
he got up a thirty—three-page memo—
randum of stage directions for all the
people—~sellers and their lawyers, buy-
ers and their lawyers, title—insurance—
company representatives and their law-
yers, notary publics and their lawyers,
and others and their lawyers—who
had to convene to execute the transfer
of the property. This was just as well,
since the transfer called for the passing

back and forth of six hundred docu-,
men ts, bearing two thousand signatures, .
and the payment by one party to an— i

other of checks totalling $167,222,—
056.l3. The strain of getting set for
all. this was so severe that one sched-
uled participant collapsed from nervous
exhaustion shortly before the big day.
A dress rehearsal of the closing, with
the whole cast present, was held on
December 20th, to make sure no one
would blow his lines. “This wasn’t
done as a theatrical gesture,” Stevens
has since said. “If anything had gone
wrong, all hell might have broken
loose. \Ve had to be certain the next
paper in the series wouldn’t be blocked
because of some unforeseen legal tech-
nicality. By the day of the actual closing,
I was numb. I had visions of being
known for the rest of my life as the man
who didn’t buy the Empire State Build—
ing. It all went off without a hitch,
though. There must have been a bun—
dred people in the room when we
closed, and as the last signature was put
on the last sheet of paper, seven and a
half hours after we’d started, they all
suddenly and spontaneously burst into
applause. I never in my life heard any—
thing like it except on an opening
night.” —E. J. KAHN, JR.

(This is f/u’ second of two ariicles
on 1117‘. Ste-wens.)

Senator William Knowland of Califor-
nia. the Senate GOP leader, expressed full
agreement and said it is "advisable to se-
duce our forces overseas” as soon as world
conditions permit—Bangkok (Thailand)
Post.

VVorld conditions? VVhat world con—
ditions?‘

‘—

 

 

* The Brandy oF
' NAPOLEON

 

  

'3’? My: 531,95"?
C O 6 ”AC

       

84 PROOF

Special offer in French glassware—Four Courvoisier cognac snifter glasses, about 336 inches
tall, with Napoleonic emblem in permanent gold design. Shipped to you from France. Send 31
cash or check payable to TV. Address Dept. A, PO. Box 1205, Grand Central Station, New York

.17, N. Y., and pay Postman 15¢ U. S. Postal Examination Charge on arrival.

 




