Enclosure We...” ”to {swatch Woulﬁﬂlof 11,131“)...

from the Lrnoassy a. London, Ei'igiand.

PRAYER
AND OUR. RELATION TO ANIMALS

THERE is to-day a growing realisation of the intimacy of our relation to animals and
of the fact that the spiritual progress of our civilisation depends in a large measure
upon our recognition of their claims upon us and of our duties towards them.

It is a matter ‘of‘concern that the Churches of any Denomination or Creed should
remain silent upon the question. neither offering teaching, nor seeking through Prayer
the guidance that may be found. All who will, are urged to represent this need to their
own Ministers of Religion, and to seek in private prayer that guidance for themselves.

The Prayers which follow are expressions of this desire for enlightenment, and are
offered in the hope that they may be found of use.

PRAYERS FOR ANIMALS
FROM VARIOUS SOURCES

Al urinals" l’lQﬂﬁz/re and Me Charo/[es 2'71. Shut/2 Africa.

\VE have received from Cape Town the interesting and encouraging news that in
November, 1929, at the meeting of the Anglican Synod, a resolution moved at the
instance of the Animals’ Welfare Society of South Africa was unanimously passed :—

“That the clergy should bring before their congregations the need for the
proper care and treatment of animals.” ‘

At the same time, the Archbishop of Cape Town, at the request of the Society,
composed the following prayer :—

O MERCIFUL FATHER, Who hast given life to all things, and
, lovest all that Thou hast made, pour into the hearts of men‘-
the spirit of Thy own loving kindness, that they may show mercy to
all helpless creatures and glorify Thee by that gentleness which is in
accordance with Thy holy will. Through Jesus Christ our Lord.

T he prayer has been adopted for use by the various Dioceses in the U ”ion
of S. A frz'ca.

O LORD, our Heavenly Father, whose tender mercies are over all
Thy works, be graciously pleased to direct and rule by Thy
Holy Spirit the endeavours of those who are seeking to alleviate the
sufferings of Thy helpless creatures. Soften the hearts of the un-
merciful, raise up unto us fellow-workers according to Thy Will, and
in Thine own good time crown our efforts with success. Grant this,
we beseech Thee, O Heavenly Father, for the sake of Thy dear Son,
Jesus Christ, our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee in the
unity of the same Spirit, one God, world without end. Amen.

( Cardﬁza/ Manning. )

F OR those also, O Lord, the humble beasts, who with us bear the
burden and heat of the day, and offer their guileless lives for
the well-being of their countries, we supplicate Thy great tenderness
of heart, for Thou hast promised to save both man and beast, and
great is Thy loving kindness. O Master, Saviour of the World.
Lord have mercy.

( From a Lz'tany used during {Var tune.)

 




W E beseech Thee, O Lord, to hear our supplications on behalf
of the dumb creation, who after their kind, bless, praise, and
magnify Thee for ever. Grant that all cruelty may cease out of our
land; and deepen our thankfulness to Thee, for the faithful com-
panionship of those whom we delight to call our friends.

(19.5. P. CA. Centenary Celebrations, 1924. )

GOD ! Enlarge within us the sense of fellowship with all living

things, our little'brothers to whom Thou hast given this earth
as their home in common with us. We remember with shame that.
in the past we have exercised the high dominion of man with
ruthless cruelty, so that the voice of the earth which should have,
gone up to Thee in song has been a groan of travail. May we
realise that they live, not for us alone, but for Themselves and for
Thee, and that they love the sweetness of life even as we, and serve
Thee in their place better than we in ours. Amen.

( Walter Rausenbaclz.)

H EAR our humble prayer, 0 God, for our friends the animals.

In Thy hand is the soul of every living thing, and we bless
Thee that Thou carest for the dumb creatures of the earth. We
bless and praise Thee for Thy joy in their beauty and grace, and we
desire to share Thy love for them all.

Accept our prayer especially for animals who are suffering ; for all
that are overworked and underfed and cruelly treated; for all wistful
creatures in captivity, that beat against their bars ; for any that are
hunted or lost or deserted or frightened or hungry ; for all that are
in pain or dying; for all that must be put to death. We entreat
for them all Thy mercy and pity, and for those who deal with them
We ask a heart of compassion, and gentle hands, and kindly words.
Make us ourselves to be true friends to animals and so to share
the blessing of the merciful.

For the sake of Thy Son the tender—hearted, Jesus Christ our
Lord. Amen. [Mb

(F. L. Gheyr— G271 Gnm’e Prayer? and Hymns. )

2
FEB 181946

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS WWW WW“
1 FEATFiFRSTONE BUILDINGS» IONDON WHUM‘M

 

 

would be grateful for information of Other Prayers for mmals,
and their origin.

 

The Wellesley Press Ltd., 31, Brighton Road. South Croydon.

 




