2 ‘ ‘

,5“

:r

Reprinted from “ .7796 Animals’ Errand ” .

 

.. CHRIST AND THE LOWER CREATURES”

'5 closure ’30.. 1.4

{)1 l1 :1 i ’“l._}.,...-.l».r {.9 ' *

__‘_,

tn Y‘a-ujatﬂlﬁ Wﬁigqur‘ﬂ iii, ﬂaw

(Extracts from a sermon of the Rev. Spencer Wade, Rector of NW ark—on—Tyne, preached by him
at Hexham Abbey on Sunday, January 10th, 1937),

For we Army f/mi 1/96 222/90/6 drama/1 grower/9 and z‘mmz'lez‘b in pain roger/967" V/mz‘z'l 710222. . . .

For. 1716'

673777652‘ expermrz'm of 2.796 area/r2072 waiter/y for $136 mama/2'72< 0f 2798 50m 0f God—Romans viii, 19—22.

T has been asserted that the Catholic Church
has no authority for any theory about
animals and their rights. Such an assertion
can be made only by those who, on the one

hand have read their Bibles with blinded eyes, .

and, on the other, have failed to apprehend the
true Spirit of Our Saviour.

The Bible uniformly connects man’s own
redemption with that of the rest of God’s
creatures. It shews them to us shut up in the
Ark along with the family of the righteous
Noah,
righteousness. \We see the cherubim which
were compound animal forms made up of
the likeness of a lion, a calf, an eagle, and a
man, representing the whole world of living
creatures, with man at their head, keeping in
Eien the way of the tree of life, keeping it
for man as a pledge, when he should become
worthy of. it. We see the same compound
animal forms over the mercy—seat of the
Tabernacle between which God and man met
and communed, teaching the great truth
embodied in my text, that the lower creatures
as well as man were vitally concerned in the
Work of redemption. We see the four living
creatures about the Throne of God joining in

the universal chorus that resounds throughout,

the universe: “ Blessing and honour, glory
and power be unto Him that sitteth upon the
throne and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.”

Turning to the New Testament, while it
may be true to say that there is little dz’recz‘ly
to be found in it about our duty to animals,
there is a great deal that justifies Christian
people making the love and care of the lower
creatures a principle in their lives of primary
import. One has constantly to remember in

reading the words of Christ that it was not‘

His method to, propound a complete and
systematic body of doctrine, covering explicitly
every point on which we need guidance.
Rather, He threw out almost at random pene—
trating and illuminating broad principles. It
is for the'Church, the Body of His followers,
guided by the Holy Spirit to work out as

sharing the consequences of 'man’s'

occasion arises all that is involved in these;
to find fresh applications of them in detail, to
answer in the light of them the special questions
that press for answer in each age

The sayings of Jesus Christ display a tender
love for the whole of His Heavenly Father’s
creation—~for the very ﬂowers and grass of the
ﬁeld, to say nothing of creatures which know
pain and suffering and which unmistakably
exhibit affection to one another and lavish
upon us, their masters, a love and a loyalty
not infrequently lacking in our own kind.
Some of His most lovely parables were: in-
spired by close and sympathetic. observation of '
animal life, His unqualified assertion that no-
falling sparrow is forgotten before God,
shatters every excuse that might be made for
any mishandling of the creatures entrusted to-
us by their Creator and ours. He dwells

emphatically more than once on the Father’ 3

tender care for these, He teaches plainly that
God 5 tender mercies are over all his works
and He holds up the Father’s mercy before.
our eyes, as an example: “ be. ye merciful as
your Father also is merciful.” Any love and
mercy that are conﬁned to mankind and take-
no account of the sub-human creation fall far
short of the love and mercy taught and exem—k
plified by Jesus Christ. Imperfect indeed
would be a Gospel that alfected man alone._
Not only must man be brought into harmony
with God and himself; he must also be brought:
into harmony with that natural world which he
shares with the lower creatures and of Which.
he is the impersonation, and with those fellow
creatures who share with him the unsolved
mystery of sentient existence.

The traditions and literature dealing with
the lives of the saints are full of suggestions
and hints of a beautiful relationship existing
between these friends of God and His lower
creatures. . St. Francis of Assisi, who loved
all God’s creatures, in his beautiful childlike: '
piety, called them his dear brothers and sisters.
He did not regard these creatures as beyond
the limits of God’s covenant, simply to beused

 




by man for his pleasure or profit, and then to
perish unheeded. He believed that where God
had given life, He had given some instinctive
consciousness of Himself; and therefore he
looked upon them as God’s. voiceless choir,
who know His name and sing"His praises
continually. They .are made in our image;
they are our poor relations, man stands in the
pl? ce of God to them, and he is accountable

to God for the treatment he metes out to them,

and as he treats them, so does he reap the
reward or the curse in the profound moral
reactions of his own nature. ,

Has not man much to learn that would be
of inﬁnite value to his character from his dog,
his cat, his horse, his bird——much in the way
of affection, loyalty,
service? we dare not be cruel towards those

mysterious companions who are grOaning and ,

travailing in pain together with us and who
are waiting with us, for our redemption, who
are wistfully loo ring up to us in their Suffering
often caused by our sin, and awaking our
tenderness by their mute appeal.

I have no time to d well upon the gruesome
and callous cruelties that are inﬂicted by man
upon his indispensable travelling Companions
through life.
principles that must underlie our relationships
to feiiow creatures. Unfortunately, in the past
we have received little help from theologians
"We must rely therefore upon saints, mystics,
poets, for a wholesome interpretation of the
mind of Christ on this vital question. There
can be no doubt that‘it is one of the leading
tasks laid on our generation of Christians to
develop this department of Christian ethics

We have to recognise that animals have some

definite inviolable claims. lhere are some
things which we are not entitled to do to
animals, whatever advantage might conceiv—
abl _\ accrue to us from doing
not unconditionally and without limit subord—
inate them to our own convenience; nor may
“we for a sufficient gain in the way of human
good completely ignore their welfare. That
they must have some claim in their own right
which no consideration whatever can justify
us in simply sweeping aside, seems clearly
involved in ' their being [2'2'2722g beings whose
happy life is as good to themselves and a
part of the purpose of our Heavenly Father.

We must scrutinise most carefully, in the
light of Christ’s standards, the whole use which
we are to make of the animals. In four direc—

confidence, patience and -*

I must rather dwell upon"

them. We may .

tions I would suggest is this scrutiny necessary.
In regard to the use of animals for the purpOse
of sport, of fashion, of diet and of sc1ent1ﬁc a
research.

For any human being, himself created in the
image of GOd, to inﬂict cruelty upon hare or
fox, or any other creature to gratify‘his love
of what he calls sport, is a barbaric crime
calculated to cut the merciful Christ to the
very heart. -11,

In our churches, beside Our altars there are
women, who represent what is most tender in ,,
our religion, following the Caprice of a brutal
and stupid fashion, wearing in their hats either
the whole bodies of birds or, wings torn'away-
from them or ornamental tailfeathers of a
kind of bird that is shot when it is nesting and
its ﬂedgelings left to starve in their nests.

Another thing that vexes the soul of any
right thinking man or Woman, is the wholesale
destruction of little birds for food. In the

name of all that is decent, let alone Christian,
how dare we de epriVe this sad wori d of the -. -~

lark’ 5 song for the sake of the morsel of meat

upon its tiny frame?

As far as scientiﬁc experiments are con—
cerned, I do not see how any reasonable
person can doubt that some of these must
involve such prolonged and acute suffering on
the part of the victim as €9.11 only be called,

\in perfectly sober and restrained language, by

the name of tortuie. In this regard let me

quote you the words of BishOp \Vestcott: “ I

find it absolutely inconceivable that God
should so have arranged the avenues of know—
ledge, that we c‘an attain to truths which it is
His Will that we should master, only through
the unutterable agonies of beings which trust
us 37
My time is exhausted, my voice must cease.
If I have failed to persuade you, then listen to
another cry:
" I 2912212222 sudden 2232 of 292222
There 2'1 22 2222/21222‘ 2'22 22 5.222222:
N022) I been” Me 20‘ (@4222,
B222 I 222222202 eel/from 22/3222.
>1< >1<
And I 222222202 ﬁ2222’ 2/2e plea:
Where /221 [222222 21222 2222122222 :
L222/e 022e. ’ 0/2, lift/e 0222!
I 22222 ream/622% 2222322252222.
This may be the voice of james Stephens
the poet, the spirit is the spi1it Of Christ.
“ Be ye merciful, as your Father also is

merciful.” '

 

Published by The Nat2022121 Council 7‘02 Ammals’ Welfare, 26«
and P22'2Lted by l/Vatford 13222221225 Ltd., 58 Vicamge Road Watford, 1122 25

“‘3311

 




