 

~E:

Scottis‘n Society for Tom! Suppressian of ¥iyisectiom

VIVISEOTION
if}, Cgutstitun 0f figs £12m

BY

JOHN H. CLARKE, Ml). EDIN.,

0F_L0NDON.

BEING A N A I) DRESS DELI VEIiEI) IN THE SA LOON OF THE
ROYAL HOTEL, EDINBURGH, 8% DECEMBER, 1887.

EEDi’uhurgb:
DUNCAN MAUARA, 6 & s COCKBU «1N STREET.

3~

 

 

 

PR I'CIC T H R E E I" EJVCIC.

 




 

 




 

-, ._._-“_:'._~ _

VIVISECTION:
A QUESTION OF'THE DAY.

0
+

 

VER since the principle of evil found entrance into human
society, man has been involved in conﬂict. To every man,
and to every race and age of man, conﬂict comes in some

special and peculiar form. Our own age has witnessed the end
of the long struggle man’s intellect has sustained against forces
which held it in bondage. We are now in the period of reac—
tion. The intellect, freed from restraints which ought neVer to
have been imposed, has advanced with giant strides, has explored
worlds before unknown,——and has grown proud of its own achieve-
ments I The men of science of to-day, who are the representa~
tives of intellect, magnify their office to such an extent that they
have come to rebel against restraints of any and every kind.
From being tyrannised over, as was Galileo, they have become
tyrannical, and seek to lord it over all the world. Church-ridden
once, they have become atheistic, and acknowledge no allegiance
to the law of mercy when it comes between them and their
aims. “ 'Where science is concerned,” says one of the most
notorious of them, “I know no scruple.” Thus it has come
about that man’s intellect has declared war against his heart;
and the struggle which we are now called to take part in is a
struggle between science which puffeth up, and charity which
ediﬁeth.

Right in the forefront of this battle stands the great profes—
sion of medicine. At once humane and scientiﬁc, it is a ques-
tion which of the two attributes shall be the ﬁrst and chief.
Shall it be humane or shall it be scientiﬁc? Shall the chief
object of the doctor be the cure of his patients or the advance~
ment of a science? When this question is decided, the great
battle of our time will be virtually lost or won.

Doctors are privileged persons. Privileged persons and privi-
leged classes are always in danger. The chief danger that besets
them is the tendency they have to presume on their privileges ;

 




 

 

 

2

and medical men and the medical profession are no exception to
this rule. It is forgotten, both by the individual and by the
faculty, that their privilege is strictly limited in its scope, and
has a deﬁnite aim; that it is conferred on them not because of
any inherent superiority of theirs, but for the necessities of their
clients. The medical student ﬁnds the sense of privilege
peculiarly gratifying to his vanity, and where it is not duly
balanced by a proper sense of responsibility, it grows stronger
by time, and ultimately becomes his master. He comes to
think that the moral law, in so far as it is not coincident with
the criminal law, when it comes between him and his aims,
does not apply to him. Indirectly this notion is fostered and
conﬁrmed by those of his teachers who belong to the experi-
menting school. The principles they accept, and the practices
they follow, necessarily tend to beget in his mind the idea that
he is in a world where the law of mercy and the rights of the
weak are nothing better than empty names.

Do not misunderstand me. The medical man and the medical
profession must have privileges. It would be impossible for us
to practice our profession for a single day if the ordinary rules
of society applied at all times to us. Nor do I believe that in
the main the privileges enjoyed by the faculty are in practical
life abused. That they are in danger of being abused; that in
particular instances they are frightfully abused, and that prin-
ciples are tacitly accepted by the profession, which, if put into
practice, must lead to gross abuse of privilege, I shall show you
presently. But I do not believe that in this country there is any
great abuse of privilege in the private practices of individual
medical men. The strong British sense of duty saves them from
that; and where that sense fails, the sense of hunger and the
necessity of earning a livelihood comes to the rescue. The
[general practitioner is apt to be a little too sensitive to non—
professional. criticism, and to regard his position as a man of
science as being of a little more consequence than it actually
is; but there is not much fault to be found with the attention
he gives to his patients. It is when he comes to commit himself
to general principles that he is seen at his weakest. And there
are principles abroad which will undermine the most high-
minded practice if they are allowed to spread and grow.

Inhospitals the work is different from what it is in private
practice. There responsibility is indirect and divided, and
divided responsibility is always weakened responsibility. Con—
sequently it is in hospital practice that any falling off in the
proper exercise of privilege will declare itself ﬁrst.

In these days of division of labour and specialisation the
medical profession has not escaped. In the medical schools,
where in former days a physiologist was also a physician, we

 

 




 

3

have now often a professor of physiOlogy who devotes himself
exclusively to physiology and does not practise. It is the same
with the teachers of anatomy, and some other branches of
medical science. Among these there has arisen a caste of
scientists who, for the most part, do not practise their profession,
but enjoy its privileges, and who are looked up to and supported
by the rank and ﬁle of general practitioners. These are the
men who assert the sovereignty of the intellect of man over his
heart, and who claim for science absolute freedom in the pursuit
of her aims. To these men and their principles the self-denying
general practitioners, not knowing what they are doing, with
almost one voice give their support. Thus it comes about that
the very humanity of the profession is brought to the support
of the men of science in all their overbearing designs, and to
the support of the nameless cruelties that are this day being
perpetrated, in the name of the advancement ‘of science, in the
torture dens throughout the world.

One of the great privileges possessed by medical men is the
right to inﬂict pain. This right is of course strictly circum-
scribed. It must only be exercised in the interest of the person
on whom it is inﬂicted, and with that person’s consent, or his
guardian’s. In private practice there is not much room for the
abuse of this right ; and, except in the most callous, not much
desire to abuse it. But if the possessor of a medical degree
happens to be a professor of physiology, see how easily it is for
him to overstep the bounds. The doctor has a right to inﬂict
pain on the patient for the patient’s good, and with the patient’s
consent: may not, therefore, a professor of physiology inﬂict
pain on an animal for the good, not of the animal, but of
science? or for the advancement of the professor’s fame? or,
possibly, for some supposed remote good to humanity? You
see how easy it is to assume this right, and you see how utterly
different it is from the rightful privilege of the medical man.
But why trouble, it may be said, about the consent of a helpless
animal? or why consider any rights which the animal is not
able to enforce? Much reason why. But let us go one step
further. In hospitals, where the patients do not pay the doctor’s
fees, and where, consequently, there is not the direct responsi-
bility that exists in private practice, there is much temptation
to overstep the bounds of this privilege by men who have been
accustomed to abuse it, or to see it abused, in physiological
laboratories. And this is just what happens, and has happened.
Not so very long ago two famous experimenters on animals
having proved on cats that a drug was a dangerous poison, pro-
ceeded at once to further test it on eighteen hospital patients.
One of the latter, who nearly died in consequence, was a
“robust man, suffering from a little rheumatism only.” The

 




 

 

 

4

simple—minded experimenters wanted to try the poison on him
a second time; but this the man declined, pleading that he had
a wife and family. Now, Sir, no doctor in his senses would have
tried experiments of that kind on his private patients. And
why? Because he would soon have lost all his practice if he
had. It is plain then that, when self-interest on the part of
the doctor does not come in to protect the patient, the privilege
of inﬂicting pain and. loss, once abused in the laboratory on
animals, will be abused in the hospital on patients. And more,
the sense of the strict limits of the privilege becomes weakened
in all whom the experimentalists inﬂuence—~that is to say, all
those medical students who have not in themselves moral
stamina enough to resist it. .

Medical men are necessarily accustomed to the sight of suffer—
ing. If it were not so, it would be impossible for them to
practise. If we felt all the suffering we see, we could not only
not do our work, but we could not live. It follows that a
certain hardening of our sensibilities must take place. And it
is only in so far as this voluntary hardening is made to subserve
the good of those whose sufferings we witness, that we are saved
from becoming actually hard-hearted. But when this safeguard
is removed, when we come to look upon the infliction of pain as
merely a part of a scientiﬁc experiment, there is nothing to
save us. And this is the dreadful danger that threatens the
medical profession, if the doctrines of the scientiﬁc clique are
to prevail.

And we have been told by the vivisectors themselves that they
have no regard for the sufferings of the animals under experi-
ment. And we might have known that even if they had not
told us 3 for it is no more possible for a vivisector to be carrying
out a difﬁcult experiment on a living animal and to be thinking
of all the animal is suffering at the same time than it is possible
for a surgeon who is performing a delicate operation on a patient
to be thinking about the patient’s sufferings. Each requires to
concentrate all his thoughts on What he is doing. Therefore
Dr. Klein need not have repented of his candour in telling the
Royal Commission that vivisectors gave anesthetics to animals
merely to keep them quiet for the vivisectors’ convenience;
that they paid no regard at all to the animals’ sufferings, and
that there was no difference between the vivisectors of the Con—
tinent and those of our country in this particular. And when
M. Cyon spoke of the “joyful excitement ” experienced by the
“artist in vivisection” in following out a delicate nerve to its
termination through the living, writhing tissues of an animal, he
was merely saying what a little reﬂection will convince any one
must be the case.

It is necessary that the non-medical public should have a

 




 

V

0

clear notion of what vivisection is. As soon as the word is
mentioned, at once a host of objections are raised. One doesn’t
like the word itself—it is “ offensive.” For my own part, I don’t
so much object to the word as the thing. The word is honest
enough—too honest for those to whom it applies. Another
will say (on the authority of his well-intentioned but ignorant
family doctor, possibly) that the vivisectors never cause any pain,
that anesthetics are always given, and that frogs are the only
animals worth mentioning that are used. Unfortunately for this
theory, there is an Act in the Statute Book which expressly per-
mits the practice of 'vivisection on all kinds of animals, and.
under certain circumstances, without anesthetics at all.

I do not deny that some experiments are less painful than
others; but I do protest against the gentlemen who ﬁnd in the
sufferings of an animal under experiment only‘ ‘joyful excite—
ment,” or keen scientiﬁc interest, being the men who are to decide
how much they suffer. And observe this: in the Returns under
the Act these are the very men who do decide. There is an
‘ Inspector,” it is true; but he never inspects, and only reports
just what the vivisectors tell him. Therefore I decline to take
his estimate of the sufferings of the creatures he reports on,
and shall show you what it is from better authority.

There are some people of such sensitive organisations that
they cannot hear the recital of sufferings without being made
positively ill. When mention is made of vivisection to such as
these they sometimes say, “Oh, please don’t mention the dread—
ful subject.” And if at the same time they do all they can to
put an end to it, their feelings have a right to be spared. But
there a1e others who refuse to have anything to do with the
opposition to this cruelty because of their delicate feelings, and
accuse us of cruelty, in making known what 1s being done. Just
as if it was more painful to them to know about it than it is for
the animals to bear it! Never in this world were wrong and
suffering overcome but by enduring wrong and suffering. If we
are to save the poor, wretched victims of the physiological
laboratories, we must give ourselves the pain of knowing what
is done to them, and we must be ready to sacriﬁce our time, our
efforts, and our treasure in setting them free. And surely this
is the very least we can do!

Know, then, that at this very time there a1e laboratories
throughout the civilised world—and our own land has its share
—in which animal torture is carried on as a profession. In this
very city experiments have been performed—I cannot say what
is taking place to-day—which take rank amongst the severest of
their kind. The eminent anatomist, John Reid, lived to repent
of his share. Cut off in the prime of life by cancer of the
tongue, he repeatedly said to his .medical attendants and the

 




 

 

 

6

members of his family, in allusion to the seat of his pain, being
the same nerves on which he had made so many experiments——
"‘ This is a judgment on me for the sufferings which I inflicted
on animals.” Let us hope his repentance and expiation came
beforeit was too late. Syme also, of Edinburgh men, expressed
abhorrence-of the vivisections he had himself once performed.
But the penitents are all too few, and the living vivisectors
are to-day more assertive and aggressive than at any previous
time. Every year shows an increase in the number of licensed
vivisectors in this country and of their victims, and ours is the
only country where any check is imposed. But it is not from
the returns under the Act that we learn what goes on in our
country. The vivisectors have two stories to tell, if they would
win any fame for their exploits. They must tell the inspector,
and they must also tell their scientiﬁc brethren through the
medical and scientiﬁc press; and here we ﬁnd a very instructive
comparison. Operations which they describe to the inspector
( who with a child-like conﬁdence reports their description to the
Home Secretary) as being no more painful than vaccination,
they describe in their scientiﬁc account as having been per-
formed, not on the legs of their victims, but on their eyes. f
they had said to the inspector “no more painful than vaccina-
tion in the eye,” he would possibly have understood them better.
Cambridge, which represents science and the intellect rather
than “Humanities,” as the classics are beautifully called in
Scotland, has earned for herself an undying notoriety for the
experiments that have been performed within her university
walls. Nothing more dreadful to think of than the experiments
of Royoon the kidney and spleen that have been performed at
Cambridge, has ever been published to the world. Dogs, cats,
and rabbits, under the inﬂuence of the drug c»u7°(tq'e;xvhich
paralyses motion and does not paralyse sensation, but permits
the anlmal to feel everything without being able to make a sign
T—kept alive by an apparatus for enabling them to breathe arti-
ﬁcially—were literally dissected alive, the nerves and organs
be1ng lald bare and “stimulated” one after another with a
callousness that deﬁes any attempt to characterise. These
experlments—or, at any rate, some of them, for they were partly
performed abroad—were carried out under the sanction of the
Britlsh Act; and only the other day experiments almost iden-
t1cal were published in the Lancet as having been recently
performed. .
. Professor Ferrier has earned for himself an unenviable noto-
riety by his experiments on the animals likest man—the animals
W1th which, .according to the scientiﬁc school, man has the
closest kinshlp. Now listen to what he and his assistant did to
the monkeys. The preliminary operation was performed under

 




 

7

chloroform, part of the brain being destroyed, and the animal left
mutilated and crippled. In the inspector’s report these opera-
tions would be classed as painless, no account being taken of what
was afterwards done. Now listen to the story of this scientiﬁc
sport, and ask yourselves if anything on earth can justify it :—-——

“Experiment 5. Left angular gyrus exposed and cauterised. The left
eye was ‘ secured.’

“ ‘At the end of an hour it was evidently wide awake, but would not
move unless touched. At this time it was removed from its cage and placed
on the ﬂoor, where it began to grope about in a sprawling manner, knock—
ing its head against every article in its path. . . . At the end of still another
hour, while it was lying quietly in its cage, it was gently laid hold of, with-
out noise to attract its attention, whereupon it bounded away with an ex—
pression of fear or surprise, and ran full tilt against the leg of a table, where
it remained groping or sprawling for a few moments. It then again started
off, and this time ran against the wall, against which it sprawled helplessly.
. . . When a slight noise was made with the lips quite close to it, it darted
off and came against the wall as before, where it lay down. . . . Creeping
up to it cautiously without exciting its attention, the observer made a slight
whisper close to its face, whereupon it peered eagerly, but evidently re-
membering the results of running away, it crouched down and would not
move. Half-an-hour later, when it was quiet in its cage, it started suddenly

on being touched and ran its head into a corner, where it crouched?“

“ So for two hours did these English gentlemen (I) torture this poor
blinded creature, suffering, as it was, from the eﬁects of a terrible operation,
and in mortal dread of its tormentors ! This is what is now considered an
honourable occupation for men of science. These are the ‘ Transactions ’
in which the British Medical Association and the English Royal Society
take delight, and for the performance of which they pay their subsidies.
Three weeks after, the animal had, unhappily, recovered, and another part
of the brain was exposed and cauterised. The previous experiments were
repeated. ‘ Within a quarter of an hour it got up, and on being touched,
gave a screech and made oﬁ‘, knocking its head twice, till it was brought
up in a corner of the room, where it remained at rest.’ But its troubles did
not end here ; it again recovered. ‘ Six weeks subsequently the old wounds
were enlarged, upon which lameness ensued, and the animal was found
dead one morning by the laboratory attendant, exactly ten months after the
operation.’

“ Of another monkey we learn—‘ Three hours after the operation it again,
in running through the laboratory, came full tilt with its snout against a
wall, Where it rested. While it was resting quietly we crept up to it, but
the animal, though with eyes wide open and looking towards us, made no
Sign of perception. Threatening grimaces likewise were without effect, but
on making a noise with our lips the animal seemed alarmed, peered for-
ward, and yet, though it came close to our faces, seemed to see nothing.’

“ Of yet another that the day after the ‘ operation,’ it was very unwilling
to move, and ‘when urged to do so, knocked its head against every obstacle,
and occasionally sprawled with its hands in the air, as if to lay hold of
something.’ ” *

In London there are many laboratories, some of them in con-
nection with the medical schools, and some independent. There
is in connection with one of the schools an apparatus for slowly

* From a pamphlet on Dr. Ferrier’s Experiments, published by the Victoria
Street and International Anti-Vivisection Society.

 




8

baking animals alive, and this does not exist for nothing. There
is a dispensary for dogs, founded by a benevolent gentleman
named Brown, whose fondness for animals was greater than his
knowledge of the world—at least of the scientific. part of it.
Under his will the dispensary for sick dogs is administered by a
professor-superintendent, who is connected. With the London
University, and who is supposed to study diseases of dogs and
lecture on them at the University. Hitherto the professors
have been notorious vivisectors, and this hospital for dogs has
become an institution for vivisecting them. Whenever any
scientiﬁc person who has no laboratory of his own wants a few
experiments performed he seems to appeal to the Brown pro-
fessor, whose “ kindness ” always supplies him with animals and
means, if it does not actually extend to performing the expen-
ments himself. Whenever M. Pasteur, or some other foreign
vivisectors, have produced results that want testing—and they
‘ all want testing, and are eventually found wanting—the hospital
for dogs supplies the “ vivisectional material.”

I have mentioned M. Pasteur. He is not a medical man, but
he is a scientist; and he stands prominently forth as one of the
chief champions of vivisection. He has probably performed
more experiments on animals than any man living, and he has
received an amount of adulation that ought to gratify him,
however colossal his vanity may be.

For a long time now M. Pasteur has been the chief argument
with which anti-vivisectionists have been met. I may therefore
be pardoned if I subject his claims to a brief examination.
Whenever a word has been said against experiments on animals,
some one has been sure to spring up and say, “ Oh I but look at
M. Pasteur! He is a vivisector, and isn’t he a good man?
Hasn’t he destroyed silk-worm disease, cattle plague, and
chicken cholera?” Well, the fact is, he hasn’t done anything of
the kind; but I will pass by all that and come to his latest sup—
posed achievement, the discovery of a cure for hydrophobia, or a
means of preventing it coming on after a person has been
bitten. We will suppose, for the sake of argument, that M. Pas-
teur has found out a means of curing hydrophobia. What is the
ﬁrst question that ought to be asked regarding the cure ’4 Why,
what "is the nature of it? There are some things worse than
hydrophobia in the world; and when our chance of taking hydro-
phobia is only about one in the million, we may at least keep
cool about it. But I ﬁnd a great number of people who have
not the least idea of What the nature of M. Pasteur’s “ cure ” i8,
and are perfectly astonished when they are told that it involves
any suffering to animals. But What is the cure? The “ cure ”
is founded on vivisection of the most extensive kind the world
has ever seen. In order to provide the “vaccine,” M. Pasteur

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

9

has to keep a supply of rabbits constantly suffering from rabies
in an endless series. He induces the rabies by means of open-
ing their skulls and putting the virus under the membranes of
the brain. In time this brings on rabies of a paralytic kind,
and the animal dies in great suffering. Its spinal cord is then
taken, and part of it used for manufacturing vaccine and part
for transmitting the disease to other rabbits. Nor is this all.
Before deciding on the plan of inoculating human beings, M.
Pasteur experimented on “an inﬁnite number of all kinds of
animals,” chieﬂy monkeys and dogs. So that the “cure” for
hydrophobia is an outcome of cruelty, and is sustained on
crueltyof a never-ending kind. This we must know, and this
we must decide upon, before we accept it. It is not as if it were
some simple medicine, or other unobjectionable means; we must
say if we will sanction this wholesale cruelty just to save us
from the millionth chance of dying of hydrophobia. For my part,
I know what my answer would be, and the answer of all those
whose hearts and judgments must command my admiration.

When this question is disposed of, as I believe it would be
disposed of were it known what the system really is, there would
be no need to go further and inquire if the cure is a genuine
one. But with the usual perversity of people, that is the ques-
tion they lay hold of ﬁrst. They do not ask, Is it right? but,
Does it succeed? And, when people take this course of reason-
ing, they are very apt to be led away by superﬁcial appearances.

If I did not know that the men who have the greatest reputa—
tion for being scientiﬁc and incredulous are in many things—— '
and those things often within their own special domain—{of all
men the most credulous and gullable, I could not conceive of
M. Pasteur believing in the tissue of fallacious conclusions on
which his system is based, or of any scientiﬁc person supporting
him in his belief. But when we remember the great Bathybius
mare’s nest of Professor Huxley’s ﬁnding, we are not surprised.
to see a man who, in addition to the natural gullability of the
scientiﬁc, has M. Pasteur’s portentous vanity, carried away into
the excesses of his hydrophobia research.

Professor Huxley, in a certain slimy substance found in dredg—
ings taken from the depths of the ocean, thought he had come
upon the original protoplasm from which the ﬁrst cell and the
ﬁrst animal differentiated, and he described this as life in its
simplest elementary form, and called it Bathybius, which means
“deep life.” After much ado, and the writing of many learned
papers on this “ deep life,” it was discovered that it was nothing
more mysterious than a solution of chalk; and though it might
have come from the depths, contained no life at all. The demi—
gods of science are by no means infallible even in their own
domain.

 




 

10

M. Pasteur ﬁrst announced that he had rendered certain dogs
proof against rabies, that is, had by inoculation made them in-
susceptible to the disease before they were bitten. He next pro-
ceeded—yielding weakly to the importunities of dog-bitten
persons-—to perform a new experiment on men, to see if he could
not render them proof against rabies after they howl been bitten.
Observe the difference. I t is the difference between being vac-
cinated for smallpox before you are infected, and being vaccinated
after you have become infected, which is confessedly of no use.
However, his experiences with animals had accustomed him to
experimenting, and he took the leap from animals to men.
Numbers ﬂocked to him, most of them not bitten by rabid
animals, and when they didn’t take hydrophobia (as they were
in no danger of dying until they went to him), they were said
to have been saved from the disease by M, Pasteur. Soon,
however, there came disasters—and excuses. The patients, he
said—73.e., those who died—had come too late; or the bites had
been too severe; or the vaccination had not been strong enough;
anything rather than admit the failure of the experiment. M.
Pasteur still claimed as successes all who did not take the
disease, even though they had come to him at a longer interval
after the bites than those who died. The number of deaths in-
creased, and it was observed that some occurred in a peculiar
way,——that the patients died in the same manner as the rabbits
from which they were inoculated. This happened in the case
of Gofﬁ, who died at St. Thomas’ Hospital; and it was proved
on M. Pasteur’s own showing that he died of the inoculations.
For Mr. Victor Horsby, professor-superintendent of the Brown
Institution, used Gofﬁ’s spinal cord to inoculate rabbits. These
rabbits, as Mr. Horsby told me himself, died in seven days.
They would not have died, says M. Pasteur, until eighteen or
twenty days if Gofﬁ had died from the bite of the cat. This
awkward fact is very adroitly “dodged” (if the homely phrase
may be excused) in that remarkable document, the Report of the
British Commission appointed to inquire into Pasteur’s method.
N 0 direct mention is made thereof the number of days which
elapsed between the inoculation of these rabbits and their death.
Another English patient, Arthur Wilde, of Rotherham, died of
the paralytic or Pasteurian rabies. I had an interview with the
mother of this unfortunate man, who died in the ﬁrm belief that
the inOculations had killed him, and whose mother, when I saw
her, bitterly regretted that he had allowed himself to be per-
suaded to go to Pasteur. Mrs. Wilde nursed her son, and the
account she gave me of his symptoms left no doubt that he died
of Pasteurian rabies. Both of these men would in all proba-
bility have been alive to-day if they had never seen M. Pasteur.
It was after these deaths, with similar deaths in France and

 




 

11

elsewhere, that M. Pasteur again modiﬁed his method. But of
all the deaths that have occurred under Pasteur’s treatment,
none have made a greater sensation than that of Lord Doneraile.
Pasteur’s endeavours to escape the onus of the unhappy noble-
man’s death have done more to open the eyes of people to his
meanness than anything else that has happened. He tried to
throw the blame on the relatives of Lord Don eraile for stipulating
that he should not undergo the “intensive” method, which had
proved so fatal. Pasteur said, after the death of the patient,
that, carried out under such conditions, the treatment could
only delay the development of the virus four or ﬁve months,
and could not prevent it. The Provincial Medical J onrnal,
commenting on this, truly says —— “This extraordinary state—
ment is not only unsubstantiated by our experience of the
results in other cases, but is positively cruel to the friends of the
deceased nobleman.” The editor of this journal (which is not
an anti—vivisectionist paper, be it observed, but an ordinary
medical periodical) goes on to criticise the different methods
Pasteur has adopted, and shows that if the treatment to which
Lord Doneraile was subjected was insufﬁcient, then all who go
to him now are treated insufﬁciently, for they are treated in
exactly the same way. The writer concludes as follows :—

“ We see here ”—that is, in the latest mode of inoculating——“ he rings the
changes on old. dried cords, and juggles with them, not using a cord older
than ﬁve days. What are we to think, then, of the assertion re Lord Done-
raile, that his death was due to only using a ﬁve days’ cord? ‘He only
delayed the fatal result.’ Not a shadow of proof is there that he even did
this; not a shadow of proof that delay was the cause of failure. Look at
the case of J ammott——bitten on the arms by a cat. She went next day, and
was under treatment one month. She died. Look at the case of Penichaud.
He went next day, and for ﬁfteen days underwent the intensive process, yet
he also died. Here M. Pasteur’s conditions were fulﬁlled, and failure
ensues. We chronicle the failures; there are no successful cases. The
average mortality in France and England is preserved; the mortality in
Germany and America, Where the method is disregarded, is just the same

as it was. The Americans and Germans are not dying any faster because
they only smile at the system. Where is the beneﬁt ? ”

Now a word about the Report of the British Commission
above referred to. I was going to say it is not worth the paper
it is printed on. But that would be a mistake. It is worth a
great deal—to anti~vivisectionists. It plays the part of the
“awful example” that temperance lecturers occasionally illus-
trate their lectures by. The inquiry was undertaken by men
who had committed themselves to Pasteur beforehand, and they
were not going to stultify themselves in the Report if they could
help it. But they couldn’t help it. They endeavoured, with
some success, to give the appearance 0f having indorsed- all
Pasteur said ; and then—Do they recommend the adoption of his
method? Oh ! dear, no I They recommend the muzzle 2 Well,

 




 

12

that is not exactly M. Pasteur’s style ; and we hardly wanted a
Royal Commission to tell us what muzzles were good for. But
we must be thankful we have the Report. It is quite a boon
to anti-vivisectionists. No lecturer or speaker need be at a loss
so long as he has this to refer to.

But what are we to think now of Pasteur’s system. It is like
the roots from which it has sprung—cruel and deadly. You
may judge the tree by its fruit; and you may prophesy the
fruit by the tree. Knowing the nature of the system, and the
roots of it, some of us from the very ﬁrst foretold what the
results would be. And to-day you may see them. Are these
results sufﬁcient to make you condone the wrongness of the
system? If men had only asked the ﬁrst question ﬁrst—Is it
right ?—-the Pasteur hydrophobia delusion, with its cruelty to
men and beasts, would never have formed the blot on our
century it is destined to appear to the generations to come.

Let us consider a moment what are the principles of these
men who ask us to let them torture animals without restraint?

M. Pasteur has told us he is a humane man; so he considers
himself. But there are limits to his humanity: “ Where science
is concerned,” he says, “ I know no scruple.” That is plain and
intelligible. The question for you to answer is will you accept
it ? Is science—or, which comes practically to the same thing,
what men of science call by that name—is science to override
all our sentiments of humanity, pity, and affection ?

Dr. Klein has told us that vivisectors do not regard the feel—
ings of animals in the slightest. Cyon. has told us that he goes
to his cruel work with “joyful excitement ” in its scientiﬁc
aspect. Ray Lankester told the British Association at South-
port that the advancement of science had taken the place of -
religion as a stimulus to the higher life. These are the expressed
doctrines of the scientiﬁc school, and we see them implicitly
acknowledged in all the works of the experimenters. An un-
happy Victim of the wrong kind of scientiﬁc investigation and
the new scientiﬁc spirit was Charles Darwin, whose life has just
been given to the world. By working exclusively in one groove
of investigation, and thinking in one line of thought, he came
at last to be unable to see any beauty in poetry, to feel any
solace in music, or to ﬁnd anything besides contradictions in the
New Testament. Shakespeare he could not read, he found him
so intolerably dull. In an Arabian horse of wonderful beauty
and grace—in fact, a perfect poem in ﬂesh and blood—he saw
nothing remarkable ; whereas, if it had been some hybrid mon-
strosity, it would, no doubt, have sent him into ecstasies of
delight. What wonder if he at last could recognise no God in
the world, no God in nature, no God in the heart of men.
Darwin appears to me one of the most pitiable products of the

 




 

 

 

13

modern scientiﬁc spirit, as well as one of its most potent
fashioners ; and the homage that was paid to him at his death,
and his burial in Westminster Abbey, are a sign of the im-
mense impression the self-assertive scientiﬁc spirit has produced
upon society at large.

What is the scientiﬁc spirit? M. Pasteur has given the best
deﬁnition—“ No scruple,” “ Science and its aims sovereign.”
Ray Lankester is not far behind him in calling it “The new
Religion.”

It is the tacit acceptance of this doctrine by men of all creeds
and men of no creed that constitutes the danger of our age and
the difﬁculty of the battle for civilisation we have to ﬁght. For
if civilisation is to go on, these doctrines must be destroyed.
“Nothing must stop our way,” say the vivisectors. “ Nothing
must stop your way,” say the blind, honest, general practitioners.
“We are the scientiﬁc, and wisdom shall die with us,” say the
vivisectors. “ You are the scientiﬁc, and we your humble wor—
shippers,” say the general practitioners. “ Medicine cannot
advance and the people will die if we are not allowed to vivi-
sect,” say the vivisectors. “ Without you and your teachings
medicine cannot advance,” echo the docile general practitioners.

But, happily, there is also the public; and it is open to the
nation to say: “ Thank you, but we would rather die than live,
if you cannot save us without roasting cats and dissecting dogs
alive.” If the nation says that sternly—-—and every one of us_
can give his voice—there is an end of the question.

A lady the other day was calling on a friend of mine in hos-
pital work to consult her about the best steps to take, in order
that she might pass the short remainder of her days so as to
give the least trouble to her friends. She was suffering
from cancer, and must die a painful death, and knew it. As
they were conversing, quite incidentally M. Pasteur’s name
cropped up, and with it the vivisection question. The doomed
lady expressed her utter abhorrence of the idea of vivisection-—
the endeavour to save ourselves from suffering by torturing
innocent brutes—and said, “ If vivisection could save me from
this disease and death, I would not have one of God’s innocent
creatures suffer a pang for me 1 ”

Now, I put it to you—Which is going to save the world and
our civilisation? Is it the spirit of the Cyons, the Pasteurs,
the Boys, Bruntons, Ferriers, Ray Lankesters, and all the vivi—
secting host which knows no scruple where science is concerned?
—or is it the spirit of that woman? Here is the very central point
of the battle. For my part I range myself on the side she has
chosen, and I know which side will win. Death will not kill her
spirit. As for the others, I hardly know whether to admit that
they are even now alive. There is such a thing as life in death,

 




 

14s

and there is such a thing as death in life. Choose you this
day which you will have.

When we come to analyse it, what does the vivisector’s plea,
when put on humanitarian grounds, amount to? It comes to
this. “Let me,” he says to us, “let me torture brutes and I will
save you from pain.” Of course he can do nothing of the kind,
and never has done; but that is, in short, his plea. Was there
ever any doctrine so unutterly mean as this preached to the
world before? “Let us,” they say, “wreak on the weak and
the innocent sufferings that are the inheritance of sinful man;
sufferings which may subserve in man a higher object, and which
are seldom or never to him an unmixed bane, though to the
lower creatures they have no mitigating element! I confess,
Sir, that this is a great deal worse that the frank plea of the
scientist pure and simple; the man who vivisects for scientiﬁc
purposes does not pretend to have any higher aims. “ Save us,
the guilty, from our pains, at the expense of the agonies of the
innocent! Shield ourselves from pain behind the quivering
bodies of dogs and cats 1 ” Why, Sir, I verily believe the devil
himself would be ashamed to preach such doctrine. At least, if
he would preach it, he is a great deal blacker than any picture
of him I have ever seen painted. Dante in his Vision never
saw anything so dreadful as this. In the “Inferno ” he described
the sufferers were not the innocent, but sinners, and they knew
for what they were suffering.

And yet, Sir, these are the men whose inﬂuence is paramount
in the medical profession. Their doctrines are accepted——
blindly, it is true—by the honest, self-denying, general prac-
titioners almost in a body. Medical students are taught to look
up to them, and to regard the right to vivisect as one of the
sacred privileges of their calling, and to look upon vivisection
itself as being the acme of all that is scientiﬁc in medicine.
Doctrines like these must bear fruit. The fruit of them does
not always come to the surface, but it does sometimes; and it is
there whether we see it or not. It was seen when, some years
ago, one of the most respected, and deservedly respected, of
teachers of the London medical schools was so far carried away
by the prevailing spirit that he allowed, as he stated to his class,
a man suffering from a painful and often fatal disease to pass

two days without treatment—and for what purpose ?——just to .

let the students see that the disease had no tendency to get
well of itself I It was seen when the vivisecting doctors, after
proving that a drug was poisonous to cats, forthwith gave it in
poisonous doses to their hospital patients. It was seen the
other day at Vienna, when the midwifery professor created
inﬁnite amusement in his class by experimenting before them
on the half—born child of a woman in her pangs, the child being

 

 




15

eventually born dead, and beyond the reach of experiment an
hour or two later. If you read a book lately published entitled
“St. Bernards,” you will see graphically depicted, by one who
knows well of what he writes, other instances of the working of
the scientiﬁc spirit in medicine, and the effort the intellect of
man is making to lord it over his heart. This thing cannot
remain as it is; it must either increase and taint the whole of
medical practice, converting medical men into a sacerdotal caste
of the worst description; or it must stop. There is a priesthood
which is the high est thing earth knows—the royal priesthood of
self-surrender and self-sacriﬁce. This is the ideal of the medical
profession, and it is this alone which entitles it to the name of
“noble.” The surrender of all the powers of hand, mind, and
heart to the welfare of those who honour him with their con-
ﬁdence is the doctor’s ideal. But where is the nobility in the
doctrines of the new school? If science is to lord it over heart
and to admit no scruples; if patients are to become mere
“material” for the doctors to experiment on; if the scientiﬁc
physician merely wishes to exercise his cleverness in “under-
standing” patients without any hOpe of curing them; where
does the nobility come in? There is no room for it. With-
out scruples there is no nobility. Nobility scruples to be
unjust, unkind, unloving. Science has no scruples. If you
want unscrupulous doctors in your families you know how to get
them: support the vivisectors. It will take some time to
eradicate the sturdy kind-heartedness that exist in our British
race, in spite of all external roughnesses; but the doctrines of the
vivisectors are equal to this if they are allowed to dominate the
medical profession.

And who, do you ask me, is to Check them? I answer, You
who hear me. The medical profession is not your master; it is
your servant. It is a highly-placed, privileged servant; but a
servant. It is responsible to you for the right use of its privi—
leges, but on you rests the responsibility of seeing that they are
rightly used. It is necessary that every privileged body should
be made to feel the pressure of its responsibility. It is to them
like the power of gravity, without which we could not walk the
earth, or have any earth to walk on. It is for you to say by what
methods you will have your servants learn and carry out their
particular kind of service. So the battle comes home to you.
Is the intellect of man, in its outrageous pretensions, to be
allOwed to eat out his heart, or is it not ? No better ground for
deciding this point could be chosen than the question of Vivi-
section, and no better place of battle than our own country.
The question of Slavery was decided in Britain ﬁrst, and then
all the world had to follow. All the world is looking upon our
struggle to-day, and the result of it will be felt wherever science

‘ 4‘ L

 




 

 

16

has a name. And not all our world only. The deeds of the
vivisectors are a spectacle to men and angels. Their “ fantastic
tricks ” may well make the angels weep ; and the “ cloud of wit-
nesses,” ever viewing the struggles of men in the battle of life,
are bending their eager gaze to-day on the battle we are ﬁghting.
Surely we, who have heard and obeyed, shall not leave that noble
woman alone. No pang of hers would she have visited on an
innocent brute. She has given her voice, with all the weight
of her sufferings behind it, in the cause of mercy and justice.
Surely we have also something to give. We have voices, and
if we have not her sufferings, we have health, and strength,
and means. On a hundred torture troughs to-day there
are innocent victims writhing in agony to gratify the passions
of the scientiﬁc, who know no scruples. I ask you, What
will you do to remove this foul blot from the face of our
civilisation? Each may do his share. We must begin at
home. Public opinion must be enlightened. The profession must
be made to feel that its privileges are sacred, and must not be
abused. Parliament must be ordered to repeal the law which
makes vivisection legal. There are active societies working to
these ends. There is one in Scotland. If you know no other
way of making your inﬂuence felt, join them, and so mass your
powers together; and in public or in private leave no effort un-
tried to further the cause of mercy. The ﬁght is a great one
and a holy. Since the question of slavery was decided there
has been no greater before the world. Are we to bow down
before a hierarchy of intellect Without heart, and accept all its
cruel doctrines, or are we not? That is the question of the day
involved in the issues of the anti-vivisection crusade. Man
needs all three divisions of his nature—body, mind, and heart.
If one seeks to do without the other, man is a house divided
against itself. Modern science claims for the intellect absolute
and unfettered sway; and men of all shades of thought are bow-
ing their heads in acquiescence. We claim for the heart of
man its rightful place in the affairs of humanity. We claim it
in the name of mercy and justice; we claim it in the name and
for the sake of all that is best in science itself.

Men and women of Scotland! there is being fought now a
battle greater than Waterloo. Choose, I entreat you, without
delay, which side you will ﬁght on—and ﬁght I

 

LORIMER' AND GILLIES, PRINTERS, 31 ST. ANDREW SQUARE, EDINBURGH.

 




 

 

 

 

ﬂ»- «‘
(r

.r .

9/

H

..




 




