THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON,D.C.2030I

August 19, 1981

Mrs. Roger Stevens
1686 — 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Christine:

”Stickeen” was a delightful story indeed,
and I thoroughly enjoyed it as of course you
correctly guaged I would. Again many thanks
for a most delightful evening.

My best wishes to you and Roger.

Sincerely,

7

» .2

I am enclosing your book herewith.

 




 

)éﬂc'ﬂy ffVZ‘W/F

XX/ ”3‘5 ﬁ€ ’ k- -' { .x‘r’C FE’") L“
for r ”r/"1 ”

41%;:




AN ADVENTURE WITH
A EGG AME: 2a. SLALCEEK

m 32:;

by J70]??? fiﬂm‘

. DAVIDSON_

DAVIDSON GLACIER, FROM LYNN CANAL.

 




 

 

 
  
  
   
   

 

 

 

     

STICKEEN

AN ADVENTURE WITH
A DOG AND A GLACIER
ON THE ALASKA TRIP

IN 1880
by John Muir

Editor’s Preface
John Muir had his adventure with the dog Stickeen and the
glacier in 1880, in Alaska. The tale developed soon, and, on de-
mand, Muir told it, and retold it. The event became part of his
family life at Martinez, California (now John Muir National His-
toric Site) where he recited the story at the dinner table until it
became a legend. Not until 1897, though, did Muir give it to the
world in The Century magazine, and not until 1909 did he print the
ﬁrst edition in book form, “this icy storm—story” affectionately
dedicated to his daughter Helen, “Lover of wildness.“ By 1922
the little volume had been reprinted 24 times, and it has been
brought into print repeatedly since. Here we have reprinted the
earliest version, a slightly more adult form of the story.

The owner ofthe dog, Dr. S. Hall Young, recognized the story’s
literary merit. Young had gone with Muir on the expedition, and
taking the dog along was Young’s idea. Both Mrs. Young and Muir
objected. Young recalled that later, writing:

I shudder to think what the world would have lost had their argu-
ments prevailed. That little long-haired, brisk, beautiful, but very
independent dog, in co-ordination with Muir‘s genius, was to give to
the world its greatest dog classic. Indeed, in subtle analysis of dog
character as well as beauty ofdescription, l think it outranks them all.
Dr. Young was not being overly sentimental about his dog, but

only reacting to the power that the Stickeen story had—even on

. , 71/43"
g I v I.“ I
/l (A l ’/

 

   

', A ,1}:
M'w” u .-'v ,'
”('3' {Sifjilr
M757
“truly/”W" '

 

Stickeen—when Muir first told it to Young. Young wrote after- 3"",4}, [ii

wards that:
The tears streamed down my face. Before the close of the story
Stickeen arose, stepped slowly across to Muir, and crouched down

  

 




 

 

l s
with his head on Muir’s foot, gazing into his face and murmuring soft
canine words of adoratidn to his god.

Later there was anbthier Stickeen. What else could Muir call his
dog? And in Alaska there is today not only the Muir Glacier, but
the Stickeen River, named for a tribe of indians for whom Stickeen
was named for, although the dog is the more famous today.

Stickeen is a dog story indeed! Children love it. But the truth is
that the stories children love best are the very ones adults love,
too. When Muir was still telling Stickeen, such counsel was not
needed; perhaps adults then were less ashamed of their sentimen—
tality. Perhaps we have lost something of value since. If so, read
Stickeen and you will ﬁnd it. If you can, read it around a campﬁre,
aloud, and with both children and adults present, preferably your
family.

Bill Jones

 

reprinted from The Century Magazine, with drawings from Century for
1895 & 1897, Scribner’s Maga7ine for 1892, and Harper’s Magazine for
1885.

Copyright © 1978 OUTBOOKS, Box 2006, Olympic Valley, California 95730
ISBN 0-89646—032-0

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Landing through the Surf

S T I CKEEN
AN ADVENTURE WITH
A DOG AND A GLACIER

ON THE ALASKA TRIP IN 1880
by John Muir

N the summer of 1880 I
set out from Fort Wran-
gel in a canoe, with the
Rev. S. H. Young, my for—
mer companion, and a
crew of Indians, to con-
tinue the exploration of
the icy region of south—
eastern Alaska, begun in the fall of 1879.
After the necessary provisions, blankets, etc.,
had been collected and stowed away, and the
Indians were in their places ready to dip
their paddles, while a crowd of their friends
were looking down from the wharf to bid
them good-by and good luck, Mr. Young, for
whom we were waiting, at length came
aboard, followed by a little black dog that
immediately made himself at home by curl-
ing up in a hollow among the baggage. I
like dogs, but this one seemed so small, dull,
and worthless that I objected to his going,
and asked the missionary why he was taking
him. «Such a helpless wisp of hair will only
be in the way,» I said; «you had better pass
him up to one of the Indian boys on the
wharf, tp be taken home to play with the
children.“ This trip is not likely to be a good
one for toy dogs. He will be rained on and

 

snowed on for weeks, and will require care
like a baby.» But the missionary assured me
that he would be no trouble at all; that he
was a perfect wonder of a dog—could endure
cold and hunger like a polar bear, could swim
like a seal, and was wondrous wise, etc., mak-
ing out a list of virtues likely to make him
the most interesting of the company.
Nobody could hope to unravel the lines of
his ancestry. He was short-legged, bunchy-
bodied, and almost featureless—something
like a muskrat. Though smooth, his hair was
long and silky, so that when the wind was at
his back it rufﬂed, making him look shaggy.
At ﬁrst sight his only noticeable feature was
his showy tail, which was about as shady and
airy as a squirrel’s, and was carried curling
forward nearly to his ears. On closer in-
spection you might see his thin; sensitive
ears and his keen dark eyes with cunning tan
spots. Mr. Young told me that when the dog
was about the size of a wood-rat he was pre-
sented to his wife by an Irish prospector at
Sitka, and that when he arrived at Fort
Wrangel he was adopted by the Stickeen
Indians as a sort of new good—luck totem,
and named «Stickeen» for the tribe, with
whom he became a favorite. On our trip he

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ENGRAVED BY R. C. COLLINS.

DEASE LAKE, ON THE DIVIDE BETWEEN THE MACKENZIE
AND STICKEEN RIVERS.

soon proved himself a queer character—~odd,
concealed, independent, keeping invincibly
quiet, and doing many inexplicable things
that piqued my curiosity. Sailing week after
week through the long, intricate channels
and inlets among the innumerable islands
and mountains of the coast, he spent the
dull days in sluggish ease, motionless, and
apparently as unobserving as a hibernating
marmot. But I discovered that somehow he
always knew what was going forward. When
the Indians were about to shoot at ducks or
seals, or when anything interesting was to be
seen along the shore, he would rest his chin
on the edge of the canoe and calmly look out.
When he heard us talking about making a
landing, he roused himself to see what sort
of place we were coming to, and made ready
to jump overboard and swim ashore as soon
as the canoe neared the beach. Then, with
a vigorous shake to get rid of the brine in
his hair, he went into the woods to hunt
small game. But though always the ﬁrst

n,... V, . .~.,.__.._.A....... .

out of the canoe, he was always the last to
get into it. When we were ready to start
he could never be found, and refused to
come to our call. We soon found out, how-
ever, that though we could not see him at
such times, he saw us, and from the cover
of the briers and huckleberry-bushes in the
fringe of the woods was watching the canoe
with wary eye. For as soon as we were fairly
off, he came trotting down the beach, plunged
into the surf, and swam after us, knowing
well that we would cease rowing and take
him in. When the contrary little vagabond
came alongside, he was lifted by the neck,
held at arm’s length a moment to drip, and
dropped aboard. We tried to cure him of
this trick by compelling him to swim farther
before stopping for him; but this did no good:
the longer the swim, the better he seemed to
like it.

Though capable of most spacious idleness,
he was always ready for excursions or adven-
tures of any sort. When the Indians went

 

 

 

L4.i—n.—o.mw-l A A A m bu! i—I-u—ev—Iﬁi—I-

_L|_JH_LAMAHHH




 

into the woods for a deer, Stickeen was sure
to be at their heels, provided I had not yet
left camp. For though I never carried a gun,
he always followed me, forsaking the hunt—
ing Indians, and even his master, to share
my wanderings. The days that were too
stormy for sailing I spent in the woods, or

on the mountains or glaciers, wherever I,

chanced to be; and Stickeen always insisted
on following me, gliding through the drip-
ping huckleberry-bushes and prickly Panda:
and Rubus tangles like a fox, scarce stirring
their close-set branches, wading and wallow-
ing through snow, swimming ice-cold streams,
jumping logs and. rocks and the crusty hum-
mocks and crevasses of glaciers with the
patience and endurance of a determined
mountaineer, never tiring or getting dis-
couraged. Once he followed me over a
glacier the surface of which was so rough
that it cut his .feet until every step was
marked with blood; but he trotted on with
Indian fortitude until I noticed his pain and,
taking pity on him, made him a set of moc-

 

FACE OF THE GREAT GLACIER, STICKEEN RIVER.

5

casins out of a handkerchief. But he never
asked help or made any complaint, as if, like
a philosopher, he had learned that without
hard work and suffering there could be no
pleasure worth having.

Yet nobody knew what Stickeen was good
for. He seemed to meet danger and hard-

'ships without reason, insisted on having his

own way, never. obeyed an order,and the
hunters could never set him on anything
against his will, or make him fetch anything
that was shot. I tried hard to make his ac-
quaintance, guessing there must be some-
thing in him; but he was as cold as a glacier,
and about as invulnerable to fun, though his
master assured me that he played at home,
and in some measure conformed to the
usages of civilization. His equanimity was
so immovable it seemed due to unfeeling
ignorance. Let the weather blow and roar,
he was as tranquil as a stone; and no matter
what advances you made, scarce a glance or
a tail-wag would you get for your pains. No
superannuated mastiff or bulldog grown old

    

 




 

 

 

 

 

E’.
C)
n
>
z
o
.2

 

 

 




 

in ofﬁce surpassed this soft midget in stoic
dignity. He sometimes reminded me of those
plump, squat, unshakable cacti of the Arizona
deserts that give no sign of feeling. A true
child of the wilderness, holding the even
tenor of his hidden life with the silence and
serenity of nature, he never displayed a trace
of the elﬁsh vivacity and fun of the terriers
and collies that we all know, nor of their
touching affection and devotion. Like chil-
dren, most small dogs beg to be loved and
allowed to love, but Stickeen seemed a very
Diogenes, asking only to be let alone. He
seemed neither old nor young. His strength
lay in his eyes. They looked as old as the
hills, and as young and as wild. I never
tired looking into them. It was like looking
into a landscape; but they were small and
rather deep—set, and had no explaining
puckers around them to give out particu-
lars. l was accustomed to look into the
faces of plants and animals, and I watched
the little sphinx more and more keenly as an
interesting study. But there is no estimating
the wit and wisdom concealed and latent in
our lower fellow-mortals until made manifest
by profound experiences; for it is by suffer-
ing that dogs as well as saints are developed
and made perfect.

After we had explored the glaciers of

 

 

Fv'OM THE PA‘NTING BY THOMAS HILL. OWNED BY JOhH NTUIR.

7

the Sumdum and Tahkoo inlets, we sailed
through Stephen’s Passage into Lynn Canal,
and thence through Icy Strait into Cross
Sound, looking for unexplored inlets leading
toward the ice-fountains of the Fairweather
Range. While the tide was in our favor in
Cross Sound we were accompanied by a ﬂeet
of icebergs drifting out to the ocean from
Glacier Bay. Slowly we crawled around Van-
couver’s Point, Wimbleton, our frail canoe
tossed like a feather on the massive swells
coming in past Cape Spenser. For miles the
Sound is bounded by precipitous cliffs which
looked terribly stern in gloomy weather.
Had our canoe been crushed or upset, we
could have gained no landing here; for the
cliffs, as high as those of Yosemite, sink per-
fectly sheer into deep water. Eagerly we
scanned the immense wall on the north side
for the ﬁrst sign of an opening, all of us
anxious except Stickeen, who dozed in peace
or gazed dreamily at the tremendous preci-
pices when he heard us talking about them.
At length we discovered the entrance of
what is now called Taylor Bay, and about ﬁve
o’clock reached the head of it, and encamped
near the front of a large glacier which ex-
tends as an abrupt barrier all the way across
from wall to wall of the inlet, a distance of
three or four miles.

‘\‘\‘ '.§

 

ENGRAVED BY F H. .‘.EL_|\'_,T')N.

MUlR GLACIER.

 




 

On ﬁrst observation the glacier presented
some unusual features, and that night I
planned a grand excursion for the morrow.
I awoke early, called not only by the glacier,
but also by a storm. Rain, mixed with trail-
ing ﬁlms of scud and the ragged, drawn—out
nether surfaces of gray clouds, ﬁlled the
inlet, and was sweeping forward in a thick,
passionate, horizontal. ﬂood, as if it were all
passing over the country instead of falling
on it. Everything was streaming with life
and motion—woods, rocks, waters, and the
sky. The main perennial streams were boom-
ing, and hundreds of new ones, born of the
rain, were descending in gray and white
cascades on each side of the inlet, fairly
streaking their rocky slopes, and roaring like
the sea. I had intended making a cup of
coffee before starting, but when I heard the
storm I made haste to join it; for in storms
nature has always something extra ﬁne to
show us, and if we have wit to keep in right
relations with them the danger is no more
than in home-keeping, and we can go with
them rejoicing, sharing their enthusiasm, and
chanting with the old Norsemen, «The blast of
the tempest aids our oars; the hurricane is
our servant, and drives us whither we wish
to go.» So 1 took my ice-ax, buttoned my
coat, put a piece of bread in my pocket, and
set out. Mr. Young and the Indians were
asleep, and so, I hoped, was Stickeen; but I
had not gone a dozen rods before‘he left his
warm bed in the tent, and came boring
through the blast after me. That a man
should welcome storms for their exhilarat—
ing music and motion, and go forth to see
God making landscapes, is reasonable enough;
but what fascination could there be in dismal
weather for this poor, feeble wisp of a dog,
so pathetically small? Anyhow, on he came,
breakfastless, through the choking blast. I
stopped, turned my back to the wind, and
gave him a good, dissuasive talk. «Now
don’t,» I said, shouting to make myself
heard in the storm—« now don’t, Stickeen.
What has got into your queer noddle now?
You must be daft. This wild day has nothing
for you. Go back to camp and keep warm.
There is no game abroad—nothing but
weather. Not a foot or wing is stirring.
Wait and get a good breakfast with your
master, and be sensible for once. I can’t feed
you or carry you, and this storm will kill you.»
But nature, it seems, was at the bottom of the
affair; and she gains her ends with-dogs as
well as with men, making us do as she likes,
driving us on her ways, however rough. So

after ordering him back again and again to
ease my conscience, I saw that he was not

- to be shaken off; as well might the earth try

to shake off the moon. I had once led his
master into trouble, when he fell on one of
the topmost jags of a mountain, and dislo-
cated his arms. Now the turn of his humble
companion was coming. The dog just stood
there in the wind, drenched and blinking,
saying doggedly, «Where thou goest I will
go.» So I told him to come on, if he must,
and gave him a piece of the bread I had put
in my pocket for breakfast. Then we pushed
on in company, and thus began the most
memorable of all my wild days.

The level ﬂood, driving straight in our
faces, thrashed and washed us wildly until
we got into the shelter of the trees and ice-
cliffs on the east side of the glacier, where
we rested and listened and looked on in com-
fort. The exploration of the glacier was my
main object, but the wind was too high to
allow excursions over its open surface, where
one might be dangerously shoved while bal-
ancing for a jump on the brink of a crevasse.
In the meantime the storm was a ﬁne study.
Here the end of the glacier, descending over
an abrupt swell of resisting rock about ﬁve
hundred feet high, leans forward and falls
in majestic ice-cascades. And as the storm

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

BABY GLACIER, FIVE MILES BELOW GREAT CARON, STICKEEN RIVER.

came down the glacier from the north,
Stickeen and l were beneath the main cur-
rent of the blast, while favorably located to
see and hear it. A broad torrent, draining
the side of the glacier, now swollen by scores
of new streams from the mountains, was roll-
ing boulders along its rocky channel between
the glacier and the woods with thudding,
bumping, mufﬂed sounds, rushing toward the
bay with tremendous energy, as if in haste
to get out of the mountains, the waters above
and beneath calling to each other, and all to
the ocean, their home. Looking southward
from our shelter, we had this great torrent

on our left, with mossy woods on the moun-
tain slope above it, the glacier on our right,
the wild, cascading portion of it forming a
multitude of towers, spires, and ﬂat-topped
battlements seen through the trees, and
smooth gray gloom ahead. I tried to draw
the marvelous scene in my note—book, but
the rain fell on my page in spite of all that
I could do to shelter it, and the sketch
seemed miserably defective.

When the wind began to abate I traced the
east side of the glacier. All the trees stand-
ing on the edge of the woods were barked
and bruised, showing high ice-mark in a very

 




 

 

 

10

telling way, while tens of thousands of those
that had stood for centuries on the bank of
the glacier farther out lay crushed and be-
ing crushed. In many places I could see,
down ﬁfty feet or so beneath, the margin of
the glacier mill, where trunks from one to
two feet in diameter were being ground to
pulp against outstanding rock-ribs and bosses
of the bank. About three miles above the
front of the glacier, I climbed to the surface
of it by means of aX-steps, made easy for
Stickeen; and as far as the eye could reach,
the level, or nearly level, glacier stretched
away indeﬁnitely beneath the gray sky, a
seemingly boundless prairie of ice. The rain
continued, which I did not mind; but a ten-
dency to fogginess in the drooping clouds
made me hesitate about venturing far from
land. No trace of the west shore was visible,
and in case the misty clouds should settle,
or the wind again become violent, I feared
getting caught in a tangle of crevasses.
Lingering undecided, watching the weather,
I sauntered about on the crystal sea. For a
mile or two out I found the ice remarkably
safe. The marginal crevasses were mostly
narrow, while the few wider ones were
easily avoided by passing around them, and
the clouds began to open here and there.
Thus encouraged, I at last pushed out for the
other side; for nature can make us do any—
thing she likes, luring us along appointed
ways for the fulﬁlment of her plans. At ﬁrst
we made rapid progress, and the sky was not
very threatening, while I took bearings oc-
casionally with a pocket-compass, to enable
me to retrace my way more surely in case
the storm should become blinding; but the
structure-lines of the ice were my main
guide. Toward the west side we came to a
closely crevassed section, in which we had
to make long, narrow tacks and doublings,
tracing the edges of tremendous longitudinal
crevasses, many of which were from twenty
to thirty feet wide, and perhaps a thousand
feet deep, beautiful and awful. In working
a way through them I was severely cautious,
but Stickeen came on as unhesitatingly as the
ﬂying clouds. Any crevasse that I could jump
he would leap without so much as halting to
examine it. The weather was bright and
dark, with quick ﬂashes of summer and win-
ter close together. When the clouds opened
and the sun shone, the glacier was seen from
shore to shore, with a bright array of encom—
passing mountains partly revealed, wearing
the clouds as garments, black in the middle,
burning on the edges, and the whole icy

prairie seemed to burst into a bloom of iris
colors from myriads of crystals. Then sud—
denly all the glorious show would be again
smothered in gloom. But Stickeen seemed
to care for none of these things, bright or
dark, nor for the beautiful wells ﬁlled to the
brim with water so pure that it was nearly
invisible, the rumbling, grinding moulins, or
the quick-ﬂashing, glinting, swirling streams
in frictionless channels of living ice. Noth-
ing seemed novel to him. He showed neither
caution nor curiosity. His courage was so
unwavering that it seemed due to dullness
of perception, as if he were only blindly
bold; and I warned him that he might slip
or fall short. His bunchy body seemed all
one skipping muscle, and his peg legs ap-
peared to be jointed only at the top.

We gained the west shore in about three
hours, the width of the glacier here being
about seven miles. Then I pushed northward,
in order to see as far back as possible into
the fountains of the Fairweather Mountains,
in case the clouds should rise. The walking
was easy along the margin of the forest,
which, of course, like that on the other side,
had been invaded and crushed by the swollen
glacier. In an hour we rounded a massive
headland and came suddenly on another out—
let of the glacier, which, in the form of a
wild ice—cascade, was pouring over the rim
of the main basin toward the ocean with the
volume of a thousand Niagaras. The surface
was broken into a multitude of sharp blades
and pinnacles leaning forward, something
like the updashing waves of a ﬂood of water
descending a rugged channel. But these ice:
waves were many times higher than those of
river cataracts, and to all appearance motion-
less. It was a dazzling white torrent two
miles wide, ﬂowing between high banks black
with trees. Tracing its left bank three or
four miles, I found that it discharged into a
fresh-water lake, ﬁlling it with icebergs.

I would gladly have followed the outlet,
but the day was waning, and we had to make
haste on the return trip to get off the ice be-
fore dark. When we were about two miles
from the west shore the clouds dropped
misty fringes, and snow soon began to ﬂy.
Then I began to feel anxiety as to ﬁnding a
way in the storm through the intricate net-
work of crevasses which we had entered.
Stickeen showed no fear. He was still the
same silent, suﬂicient, uncomplaining Indian
philosopher. When the storm-darkness fell
he kept close behind me. The snow warned
us to make haste, but at the same time hid

 

 




 

 

11

 

 

 

 

 

our way. At rare intervals the cloudsthinned,
and mountains, looming in the gloom, frowned
and quickly vanished. I pushed on as best I
could, jumping innumerable crevasses, and
for every hundred rods or so of direct ad-
vance traveling a mile in doubling up and
down in the turmoil of chasms and dislocated
masses of ice. After an hour or two of this
work we came to a series of longitudinal
crevasses of appalling width, like immense
furrows. These I traced with ﬁrm nerve, ex-
cited and strengthened by the danger, mak-
ing wide jumps, poising cautiously on the
dizzy edges after cutting hollows for my. feet
before making the spring, to avoid slipping
or any uncertainty on the farther sides,
where only one trial is granted—exercise at
once frightful and inspiring. Stickeen ﬂirted
across every gap I jumped, seemingly with-
out effort. Many a mile we thus traveled,
mostly up and down, making but little real
headway in crossing, most of the time run-
ning instead of walking, as the danger of
spending the night on the glacier became
threatening. No doubt we could have wea-
thered the storm for one night, and I faced
the chance of being compelled to do so; but
we were hungry and wet, and the north wind
was thick with snow and bitterly cold, and
of course that night would have seemed a
long one. Stickeen gave me no concern. He
was still the wonderful, inscrutable philoso-
pher, ready for anything. I could not see far
enough to judge in which direction the best
route lay, and had simply to grope my way
in the snow-choked air and ice. Again and
again I was put to my mettle, but Stickeen
followed easily, his nerves growing more un-

ﬂinching as the dangers thickened; so it al-
ways is with mountaineers.

At length our way was barred by a very
wide and straight crevasse, which I traced
rapidly northward a mile or so without ﬁnd-
ing a crossing or hope of one, then south-
ward down the glacier about as far, to where
it united with another crevasse. In all this
distance of perhaps two miles there was only
one place where I could possibly jump it; but
the width of this jump was nearly the utmost
I dared attempt, while the danger of slipping
on the farther side was so great that I was
loath to try it. Furthermore, the side I was
on was about a foot higher than the other,
and even with this advantage it seemed
dangerously wide. One is liable to under-
estimate the width of crevasses where the
magnitudes in general are great. Itherefore
measured this one again and again, until
satisﬁed that I could jump it if necessary,
but that in case I should be compelled to
jump back to the higher side, I might fail.
Now a cautious mountaineer seldom takes a
step on unknown ground which seems at all
dangerous, that he cannot retrace in case he
should be stopped by unseen obstacles ahead.
This is the rule of mountaineers who live long;
and though in haste, I compelled myself to
sit down and deliberate before I broke it.
Retracing my devious path in imagination, as
if it were drawn on a chart, I saw that I was
recrossing the glacier a mile or two farther
up-stream, and was entangled in a section I
had not before seen. Should I risk this dan-
gerous jump, or try to regain the woods on
the west shore, make a ﬁre, and have only
hunger to endure while waiting for a new

 

 




 

 

 

12

day? I had already crossed so broad a tangle
of dangerous ice that I saw it would be difﬁ-
cult to get back to the woods through the
storm; while the ice just beyond the present
barrier seemed more promising, and the east
shore was now perhaps about as near as the
west. I was therefore eager to go on; but
this wide jump was a tremendous obstacle.
At length, because of the dangers already
behind me, I determined to venture against
those that might be ahead, jumped, and
landed well, but with so little to spare that
I more than ever dreaded being compelled to
take that jump back from the lower side.
Stickeen followed, making nothing of it. But
within a distance of a few hundred yards we
were stopped again by the widest crevasse
yet encountered. Of course I made haste to
explore it, hoping all might yet be well.
About three fourths of a mile up-stream it
united with the one we had just crossed, as
I feared it would. Then, tracing it down, I
found it joined the other great crevasse at
the lower end, maintaining a width of forty
to ﬁfty feet. We were on an island about two
miles long and from one hundred to three
hundred yards wide, with two barely possible
ways of escape—one by the way we came,
the other by an almost inaccessible sliver—
bridge that crossed the larger crevasse from
near the middle of the island. After tracing
the brink, Iran back to the sliver-bridge and
cautiously studied it. Crevasses caused by
strains from variations of the rate of motion
of different parts of the glacier and by con—
vexities in the channel are mere cracks
when they first open,——so narrow as hardly
to admit the blade of a pocket-knife,—and
widen gradually, according to the extent of
the strain. Now some of these cracks are
interrupted like the cracks in wood, and, in
opening, the strip of ice between overlapping
ends is dragged out; and if the ﬂow of the
glacier there is such that no strain is made
on the sliver, it maintains a continuous con—
nection between the sides, just as the two
sides of a slivered crack in wood that is be-
ing split are connected. Some crevasses re-
main open for years, and by the melting of
their sides continue to increase in width
long after the opening strain has ceased,
while the sliver-bridges, level on top at ﬁrst,
and perfectly safe, are at length melted to
thin, knife-edged blades, the upper portion
being most exposed to the weather; and since
the exposure is greatest in the middle, they
at length curve downward like the cables of
suspension-bridges. This one was evidently

very old, for it had been wasted until it was
the worst bridge I ever saw. The width of
the crevasse was here about ﬁfty feet, and
the sliver, crossing diagonally, was about
seventy feet long, was depressed twenty-ﬁve
or thirty feet in the middle, and the up-curv-
ing ends were attached to the sides eight or
ten feet below the surface of the glacier.
Getting down the nearly vertical wall to the
end of it and up the other side were the main
difﬁculties, and they seemed all but insur-
mountable. Of the many perils encountered
in my years of wandering in mountain alti-
tudes, none seemed so plain and stern and
merciless as this. And it was presented
when we were wet to the skin and hungry, the
sky was dark with snow, and the night near,
and we had to fear the snow in our eyes and
the disturbing action of the wind in any
movement we might make. But we were
forced to face it. It was a tremendous
necessity. .

. Beginning not immediately above the
sunken end of the bridge, but a little to
one side, I cut nice hollows on the brink for
my knees to rest in; then, leaning over, with
my short-handled ax cut a step sixteen or
eighteen inches below, which, on account of
the sheerness of the wall, was shallow. That
step, however, was well made; its floor sloped
slightly inward, and formed a good hold for
my heels. Then, slipping cautiously upon it,
and crouching as low as possible, with my
left side twisted toward the wall, I steadied
myself with my left hand in a slight notch,
while with the right I out other steps and
notches in succession, guarding against
glinting of the ax, for life or death was in
every stroke, and in the niceness of ﬁnish of
every foothold. After the end of the bridge
was reached, it was a delicate thing to poise
on a little platform which I had chipped on
its up-curving end, and, bending over the
slippery surface, get astride of it. Crossing
was easy, cutting off the sharp edge with
careful strokes, and hitching forward a few
inches at a time, keeping my balance with my
knees pressed against its sides. The tremen-
dous abyss on each side I studiously ignored-
The surface of that blue sliver was then all

 

 

 

 




 

 

l3

 

{Will 1 IE? '1‘ "“l I '
llh I l 1

I "l
llll

 

ll ‘

l
" '11er 11, g

ml .1 9151 {ml lml

CROSSING 'I‘IIE UREVASSE ON AN ICE BRIDGE.

the world. But the most trying part of the
adventure was, after working my way across
1nch by inch, to rise from the safe‘position
astride that slippery strip of ice, and to cut
a ladder in the face of the wall—chipping,
climbing, holding on with feet and ﬁngers
1n mere notches. At such times one’s whole
body is eye, and common skill and fortitude
are replaced by power beyond our call or
knowledge. Never before had I been so long
under deadly strain. How I got up the cliff
at the end of the bridge I never could tell.
The thing seemed to have been done by some-
body else. I never have had contempt of
death, though in the course of my explora—
tlons I oftentimes felt that to meet one’s fate
on a mountain, in a grand canon, or in the
heart of a crystalb Glacier wou ‘d be blessed as

compared with death from disease, a mean
accident in a street, or from a sniff of sewer-
gas. But the sweetest, cleanest death, set
thus calmly and glaringly clear before us, is
hard enough to face, even though we feel
gratefully sure that we have already had
happiness enough for a dozen lives.

But poor Stickeen, the wee, silky, sleekit
beastie—think of him! When I had decided
to try the bridge, and while I was on my
knees cutting away the rounded brow, he
came behind me, pushed his head past my
shoulder, looked down and across, scanned
the sliver and its approaches with his queer
eyes, then looked me in the face with a
startled air of surprise and concern, and be-
gan to mutter and whine, saying as plainly
as if speaking with words, «Surely you are

 

 

 

 




posed of

r
D

H
”round an: cum

h

surface over which it is moviw .

The peaks in the back

05 01' the

-;_"]21Cizl] rivvr.

arulzu'iti

View of the Extremity of a Greenland Glacier.

ii \MRU\
WWVV r/
nah] i

,ii‘l\\\|| “lgww. \\

 

i \HN\\II\n\|I\|J\\IIIr

‘|\\‘

icc lllllCh Iissurcd by the irro

DRAWN BY W. L. TAYLOR.

‘ . \ .... \ i r; . i , i V , x _ x .. ‘
_ it \ \\ \ .i M .\ . W \H \ . . ....h.v ._ \ \_\\\ \ . \ . \
i u . \w i ,. . ﬂex 3 L _ , x .. , i i \\ \\\
. My \i .31 x : , _ .\\ . . xiii \ \ i i... 5.x \ x x \ \
. i H x y.» . . . . z ., \ NU \ \\ .. i A \ \ \
_ m i . , i 1 ,. . i . .mi . Aw Hm .. . ., . . o H 5.. c: \ KW . \ . A x x. \ _ i. ;\\x\\\\\\\ .

Showing the ice cave from which emerges a sub

 

 

 




 

not going to try that awful place?» This was
the ﬁrst time I had seen him gaze deliberately
into a crevasse or into my face with a speak-
ing look. That he should have recognized and
appreciated the danger at the ﬁrst glance
showed wonderful sagacity. Never before
had the quick, daring midget seemed to know
that ice was slippery, or that there was such
a thing as danger anywhere. His looks and
the tones of his voice when he began to com—
plain and speak his fears were so human that
I unconsciously talked to him as Iwould to a
boy, and in trying to calm his fears perhaps
in some measure moderated my own. «Hush
your fears, my boy,» I said; «we will get
across safe, though it is not going to be
easy. No right way is easy in this rough
world. We must risk our lives to save them.
At the worst we can only slip; and then how
grand a grave we shall have! And by and by
our nice bones will do good in the terminal
moraine.» But my sermon was far from re-
assuring him; he began to cry, and after
taking another piercing look at the tremen-
dous gulf, ran away in desperate excitement,
seeking some other crossing. By the time he
got back, baffled, of course, I had made a step
or two. I dared not look back, but he made
himself heard; and when he saw that I was
certainly crossing, he cried aloud in despair.
The danger was enough to daunt anybody,
but it seems wonderful that he should have
been able to weigh and appreciate it so
justly. No mountaineer could have seen it
more quickly or judged it more wisely, dis-
criminating between real and apparent peril.

After I had gained the other side he
howled louder than ever, and after run—
ning back and forth in vain search for a way
of escape, he would return to the brink of
the crevasse above the bridge, moaning and
groaning as if in the bitterness of death.
Could this be the silent, philosophic Stickeen?
I shouted encouragement, telling him the
bridge was not so bad as it looked, that I had
left it ﬂat for his feet, and he could walk it
easily. But he was afraid to try it. Strange
that so small an animal should be capable of
such big, Wise fears! I called again and again
in a reassuring tone to come on and fear
nothing; that he could come if he would only
try. Then he would hush for a moment, look
again at the bridge, and shout his unshaka—
ble conviction that he could never, never
come that way; then lie back in despair, as if
howling: «Oh-o—o, what a place! No-o-o; I can
never go-o—o down there!» His natural com-
posure and courage had vanished utterly in

15

a tumultuous storm of fear. Had the danger
been less, his distress would have seemed
ridiculous. But in this gulf—a huge, yawn-
ing sepulcher big enough to hold everybody
in the territory—lay the shadow of death,
and his heartrending cries might well have
called Heaven to his help. Perhaps they did.
So hidden before, he was transparent now,
and one could see the workings of his mind
like the movements of a clock out of its case.
His voice and gestures were perfectly human,
and his hopes and fears unmistakable, while
he seemed to understand every word of mine.
I was troubled at the thought of leaving him.
It seemed impossible to get him to venture.
To compel him to try by fear of being left, I
started off as if leaving him to his fate, and
disappeared back of a hummock; but this did
no good, for he only lay down and cried. So
after hiding a few minutes, I went back to
the brink of the crevasse, and in a severe
tone of voice shouted across to him that now
I must certainly leave him—I could wait no
longer; and that if he would not come, all I
could promise was that I would return to
seek him next day. Iwarned him that if he
went back to the woods the wolves would kill
him, and ﬁnished by urging him once more
by words and gestures to come on. He knew
very well what I meant, and at last, with the

' courage of despair, hushed and breathless,

he lay down on the brink in the hollow I had
made for my knees, pressed his body against
the ice to get the advantage of the friction,
gazed into the ﬁrst step, put his little feet
together, and slid them slowly down into it,
bunching all four in it, and almost standing
on his head. Then, without lifting them, as
well as I could see through the snow, he
slowly worked them over the edge of the
step, and down into the next and the next
in succession in the same way, and gained
the bridge. Then lifting his feet with the
regularity and slowness of the, vibrations of
a seconds’ pendulum, as if counting and
measuring one, two, three, holding himself in
dainty poise, and giving separate attention
to each little step, he gained the foot of the
cliff, at the top of which I was kneeling to
give him a lift should he get within reach.
Here he halted in dead silence, and it was
here I feared he might fail, for dogs are poor
climbers. I had no cord. If I had had one, I
would have dropped a noose over his head
and hauled him up. But while I was think—
ing whether an available cord might be made
out of clothing, he was looking keenly into
the series of notched steps and ﬁnger-holds

 

 

 




 

 

 

16

of the ice-ladder I had made, as if counting
them and ﬁxing the position of each one
in his mind. Then suddenly up he came,
with a nervy, springy rush, hooking his paws
into the notches and steps so quickly that I
could not see how it was done, and whizzed
past my head, safe at last!

And now came a scene! «Well done, well
done, little boy! Brave boy!» I cried, trying
to catch and caress him; but he would not
be caught. Never before or since have I seen
anything like so passionate a revulsion from
the depths of despair to uncontrollable,
exultant, triumphant joy. He ﬂashed and
darted hither and thither as if fairly de-
mented, screaming and shouting, swirling
round and round in giddy loops and circles
like a leaf in a whirlwind, lying down and
rolling over and over, sidewise and heels
over head, pouring forth a tumultuous ﬂood
of hysterical cries and sobs and gasping
mutterings. And when I ran up to him to
shake him, fearing he might die of joy, he
ﬂashed off two or three hundred yards, his
feet in a mist of motion; then, turning sud-
denly, he came back in wild rushes, and
launched himself at my face, almost knock-
ing me down, all the time screeching and
screaming and shouting as if saying, «Saved!
saved! saved!» Then away again, dropping
suddenly at times with his feet in the air,
trembling, and fairly sobbing. Such passion-
ate emotion was enough to kill him. Moses’s
stately song of triumph after escaping the
Egyptians and the Red Sea was nothing to
it. Who could have guessed the capacity of
the dull, enduring little fellow for all that
most stirs this mortal frame? Nobody could
have helped crying with him.

But there is nothing like work for toning
down either excessive fear or joy. So I ran
ahead, calling him, in as gruff a voice as I
could command, to come on and stop his
nonsense, for we had far to go, and it would
soon be dark. Neither of us feared another
trial like this. Heaven would surely count
one enough for a lifetime. The ice ahead
was gashed by thousands of crevasses, but
they were common ones. The joy of deliver-
ance burned in us like ﬁre, and we ran with-
out fatigue, every muscle, with immense

rebound, glorying in its strength. Stickeen
ﬂew across everything in his way, and not
till dark did he settle into his normal fox-
like, gliding trot. At last the mountains
crowned with spruce came in sight, looming
faintly in the gloaming, and we soon felt the
solid rock beneath our feet, and were safe.
Then came weariness. We stumbled down
along the lateral moraine in the dark, over
rocks and tree-trunks, through the bushes
and devil-club thickets and mossy logs and
boulders of the woods where we had shel-
tered ourselves in the morning. Then out on
the level mud-slope of the terminal moraine.
Danger had vanished, and so had our strength.
We reached camp about teno’clock, and
found a big ﬁre and a big supper. A party
of Hoona Indians had visited Mr. Young,
bringing a gift of porpoise-meat and wild
strawberries, and hunter Joe had brought in
a wild goat. But we lay down, too tired to
eat much, and soon fell into a troubled sleep.
The man who said, «The harder the toil the
sweeter the rest,» never was profoundly tired.
Stickeen kept springing up and muttering in
his sleep, no doubt dreaming that he was
still on the brink of the crevasse; and so did
I—that night and many others, long after-
ward, when I was nervous and overtired.

Thereafter Stickeen was a changed dog.
During the rest of the trip, instead of hold-
ing aloof, he would come to me at night,
when all was quiet about the camp-ﬁre, and
rest his head on my knee, with a look of de-
votion, as if I were his god. And often, as he
caught my eye, he seemed to be trying to
say, «Was n’t that an awful time we had
together on the glacier?»

NONE of his old friends know what ﬁnally be-
came of him. When my work for the season
was done I departed for California, and never
saw the dear little fellow again. Mr. Young
wrote me that in the summer of 1883 he was
stolen by a tourist at Fort Wrangel, and
taken away on a steamer. His fate is
wrapped in mystery. If alive he is very old.
Most likely he has left this world—crossed
the last crevasse—andgone to another. But
he will not be forgotten. Come what may, to
me Stickeen is immortal.

 




