THE FUNDAMENTAL NEED OF HUMANE
EDUCATION

Though there is much philanthropy which does not an—
ticipate, dealing only with results, there is cause for en-
couragement in the fact that thinkers upon social problems
are searching for what produces them, and begin to see
that it is not only the criminal who burdens society, but
also to realize the unproﬁtableness of the merely unbe-
nevo-lent; that even passive selfishness works its propor-
tion of evil, and that the same causes which produce the
unbenevolent individual may, under slightly altered condi—
tions, produce the criminal.

Education; which trains the intellect while neglecting the
cultivation of the sensibilities is coming to be regarded as
crude, and deﬁcient in the Vital element. The initial steps
in the development of the sensibilities are so obvious that
the HUMANE IDEA is gaining a settled and permanent place.
About one—fourth of the United States have already
passed laws prescribing humane teaching in their public
schools. There is reason to think that the trend of public
opinion is toward approval of such laws, but it must be
the congenial task of the lovers of reform, of those who
wish, and work, and pray for improved social conditions to
secure this legislation and make it a living force. To them
these words are addressed.

Those who give the subject of humane education only
superﬁcial attention are prone to consider but one of its
aspects—that of the kind treatment of animals. Kind
treatment of them is a sure result, but the serious thinker
on the great human problem foresees and presently ob-
serves another and greater result——-a reaction on the char~
acter such as the originators of the idea perhaps but dimly
presaged. The reason is that every argument for justice
toward and good treatment of animals embodies. an ideal
of nobleness. To point out to a child that because ani—
mals, like ourselves, can suffer, they, like ourselves, should
be spared as much suffering as possible, is to furnish him
with an analogy and a principle of action which he can
Widely and constantly apply. To show him that the mental
limitations of the animal give another reason why a being
gifted with reﬂective power should exercise patience in
dealing with other beings less favored, is also to teach him
to reason inductively—though it may be unconsciously-—
on the same basis in his future dealings with defective
humanity; and to show him that the uncertainty which
shrouds the future of the animal is a reason, though it be
not the chief one, for making its earthly span as little of a

1

 




 

curse as may be, is to present to- the child a rule of conduct
much excelling that of those who do not “regard” the life
of the beast because they deem it so ephemeral.

In a word, to omit to instil into the child, through his
contact with the animal world, the principles of justice,
mercy, and love, is to lose the golden opportunity. Every
educator knows the value of applied instruction, and that
the mere enunciation of abstract principles is a slow
method; but the average child will eagerly apply a prin-
ciple if shown the way, and can as easily be interested in
acts of benevolence and of constructive good as in de—
structiveness. A friend of the writer one day saw from her
window several children tormenting a kitten. For a con-
sideration she secured its transfer to her keeping, and
invited the children to call in a week and see how the kitten
would then look. They came, were given a little treat,
and were so impressed by the kitten’s changed appearance
on that occasion and 011 subsequent visits that they became
as active in kindness. as they had formerly been in cruelty.
One judicious act thus. served to give a new motive to
these children’s lives. .

A teacher in charge of some rough and cruel youths in
a public school in San Francisco, in her perplexity organ—
ized in the school a Band of Mercy, which she induced the
boys to join. In due time a marked change was noticed.
The former torturers of animals and tormentors of China-
men were now their protectors from the cruelty of others,
and were frequently found to be devising plans for their
assistance. ‘

A lady employed for the purpose by the W omen’s. Penn-
sylvania S. P. C. A. formed a Band of Mercy in one of the
worst districts of Philadelphia. At ﬁrst disorder reigned,
but the wise instructress, after exercising much tact with
the ringleader, a quite notorious youth, was rewarded by
seeing him converted into a stanch and faithful helper.

A boy in a school in West Washington, who, in the pre-
vious term in another school, had been. set down as incor-
rigible, became attentive and courteous to his teacher, and
kindly and helpful among his playmates. after he had been
trained only two weeks in friendly study of animal life.
Hundreds. of similar illustrations could be given to prove
the value and need of humane education. The writer, with
opportunities for information extending over many years,
has yet to hear of a lack of good results when faithful,
patient work is done.

But the standard of instruction must be high in every
sense. Nothing shocking to the sensibilities should. ever
be told or shown to a child.* Enlarge to any extent on

 

*Humane teachers will see that neither lessons in physiology nor nature study
are made to foster disregard of life and a curiosity gratiﬁed by cruelty.




the kindly virtues and ways of exercising them, but never
on their opposite vices. All that is revolting should be
carefully excluded. It is not even necessary, the knowl-
edge being unimportant, to describe in detail, as is so often
rlone, the ways in which man turns to account the different
parts of the animal carcass. The living animal, his needs
and characteristics, his relation to man and man’s respon-
sibility toward him, are right topics. The value of the
innumerable services rendered by beasts, birds, etc., should
be pointed out, and the right inference suggested, thus
fostering the virtue of gratitude. There are few vice-s or
crimes which do not contain the element of cruelty. To
teach the law of kindness is therefore to weaken the ten—
dency to vice and crime in general, and never can it be
done so effectively as in early youth. It should begin in
infancy, for even an infant can unconsciously inﬂict much
suffering, and not infrequently death, on the creatures
given for its amusement by a fond and unthinking mother.
Such thoughtlessness is as culpable as it is common, for
wrong habits become in time vicious characteristics.

It has been said that any one visiting an American public
school may unconsciously behold a future President of the
United States. True; and he may also unconsciously be—
hold the future criminal Whose corrupting inﬂuence even
the wisest chief ruler would be powerless to check.

Humane education has been tried long enough and ex-
tensively enough, both here and in Europe, to place its
beneﬁts beyond the uncertainty of theory or surmise. As
the world’s enlightenment increases, compulsory education
grows more and more in favor. If it is for the general
good that none should, be deprived of such ordinary learn-
ing as will enable them to meet the common requirements
of material existence, how can we afford to dispense with
humane education,*which cultivates the higher sensibilities
and is a known and tried preventive of crime?

As a stimulus to effort let us ﬁgure to ourselves some of
the changes in social conditions which will ensue when
among civilized nations common education is compulsory
and humane teaching an inevitable part of every child’s
training. The practice of kindness to every living creature
results in gentler conduct, less thought for self, more
thought for others, more general obedience to rule; in
short, improved conduct in all the relations of life, for as
a child is taught to think, so will he be. The natural out—
come is philanthropy, the fullest development of the altru—
istic spirit. The conﬂict between capital and labor is a
great problem. Nothing but the growth of the altruistic
spirit will solve it.

 

*It should have a regular time and place in the course of study as its import-
ance demands.

3

W"

 




 

 

It is the crimes of cruelty perpetually committed which.
make the hideous places of the earth, and which darken
the lives of those who labor for their extinction. Such a:
crime is the betrayal of women. An early training in the
exercise of justice and compassion is the reasonable and
obvious preventive.

The haggard wife and starving children of the drunkard
tell a tale of cruelty, if ever one were told. But will the
man who was specially and systematically trained in his:
early years to “be kind to every living creature” be the
one who afterwards decides to get his very living by in~
juring many through the sale of strong drink? It does
not seem probable. The great crime of murder is a crime
of cruelty, and humane education is the sovereign remedy.
.Murders will cease as humane education advances. Inves-
tigation shows that most deliberate murderers begin their
evil careers by cruelty to animals.

The growth of altruism is already such as to make war
seem a strange and horrible anachronism. But the signs
of its cessation are not even now altogether wanting. How
surely would the prevalence of humane education bring the
era of peace!

Atrocities are committed in the name of medical science,
not only upon animals, but upon poor and defenseless.
patients in hospitals. Humane education may never en—
lighten the minds and soften the hearts of: those who have
sunk to the depth of doing these deeds, but it can and
will so touch other hearts that strong public sentiment, if
not law, will eventually put an end to such works of dark—
ness.

Let us imagine, if we can, the elimination of these and
other crimes of cruelty—~some of them too. hideous for our
thought or mention—and we can then see the possibility
that this world might become the scene of serene and
simple happiness, not the sad arena of conﬂict, suffering,
and fear. For love: can transform all life. Why not will
to make the dream a truth? Nothing good is impossible.
Our Utopian visions fail only because we fail in effort to
materialize them. Much is said and written now of the
power of thought. Let us think high thoughts, altruistic
thoughts, and then patiently plod the lowly, simple, prosaic
path which leads to their realization. So shall we ﬁnd our
little world of peace in which the higher self, the Immortal
Thinker, may forever dwell; and, though laboring not for
reward, yet always ﬁnd it, for the lowly path leads upward,
even to the dwelling—place of God.

 

 

Price, 35 cents a hundred. postage paid. Address Mrs. Mary F. Lovell. World’s
and National W. C. T. U. Superintendent of Department of Humane Education,
J enkintown, Pa., or National W. C. T. U. Literature Building, Evanston, IllinOiS.

4

 




