T218223 IA; 1-.)
232C010C§K£2 0

OK

at ygu
ﬁteve R E

"s 3:72" i2
«J's $.23. .3.

Save

Comnac

£62

1%
r ﬁaav3 _
C:rt22n11 valuab.

Raﬂﬁ
ﬁlﬂuﬁ

H'ei‘fit t6} 1%:
liistmré

in the rignt déz’
30 learn that

RiChmfd

Mangert“
5.2.4 53’: 2:

131153

"T"
r. -‘f
g
”A"!
in»;

IL,
7
{a}
42*"
“J

Miﬁ
5:5. 3"
{‘05, i
{“2

p s.

P2

at
" 2
”I
gum?

A

mgr
‘M 0'
2%
f."
2.:
110.12
If- r‘ N‘

3:23.»; 3:;- (‘4‘

9.4:

Evil!

has”.

9
C

""1

r- ’
2:} 3, .2
ﬁ 5

M ‘ri "A

2,224, 2.2.2332.

(:3 2: 2:" 52’ 522:. 2.2223: 2122222222».
ﬁreg iﬁent

 




David 0. Hill

11 August '85
Dear Christine,
Just in case you didn't see this..
thout it might be of interest.

Hope you are having a good summer.

A11 best,

 

6

[DAVID C. HILL‘
70 INDIAN COVE ROAD

 




 

Deep 1 Ecology f

I am writing to bring to the attention of the Prince-
ton community a subject of immense importance
in our age of accelerating environmental degra-
dation. It is the relatively new philosophy which
has a popular name of “deep ecology,” but which
might better be called “biocentrism.”

I wish to address the university community
because the alumni network plays such an impor-
tant and powerful role in governing the dominant
Western culture, politics, and economics. It is the
belief of students of deep ecology that our mate-
rialistic, technocratic society based on anthropo-
centric values must be radically restructured if we
are ever to learn how to live in harmony with the
planet Earth, our only home. The estrangement of
our culture from N ature—the spiritual crisis of our
time—takes many forms. The most obvious are:

the degradation of water, air, and soil; the threat
of nuclear holocaust; and the continued exploita-
tion of human by human for proﬁt, power, and
luxury. Add in overpopulation and man-caused
species extinction and much, much more.
Students of deep ecology reject the assumption
that modern science, technology, and “rational-
ism” alone can ﬁnd “solutions" to the massive
and growing world-wide problems. Nothing short
of a new way of looking at the world and man’s
role in the natural community is required.
Biocentrism offers a healthy perspective from
which to attempt this necessary change in values

and lifestyle. WI!-
W

W
dverence for all forms of life precludes all _
unnecessary killing (obviously the killing of plant
and animal life to meet the necessities of life is
appropriate): “Cause no unnecessary harm.” '

This means, for example, that we can no longer
continue to generate massive amounts of electricity
from coal to juice our TVs and electric tooth- .
brushes while the resulting sulfur emissions in the 5
form of acid rain destroy lakes, forests, and their '
biotic communities. As long as concern for cor-
porate proﬁts and squanderous materialism takes
precedence over ecological and spiritual values,
human and much of non-human life on this planet
is doomed. Princetonians must face up to the un-
happy truth that they are in leadership positions in
this planetary disaster, and they must begin to act
to reverse the wanton desecration of our source of
life—the Earth.

I wrote an article for PAW, which it chose not
to publish, to open up debate on this subject, hop-
ing that there are many others like me who reject ‘
the policies of Reagan, Ruckelshaus ’55, Watt, ‘
and Coors ’38, and who question the largely un-
challenged assumptions upon which America’s and
Western Europe’s material prosperity and spiritual
impoverishment are based. I had hoped to bring
some of the beautiful, life-afﬁrming—and practi-
cal—facets of biocentric deep ecology to a wider
audience, and I wonder if any alumnus or alumna
associated with a magazine with a wide circulation
(or any other publishing enterprise) would care to
contact me to discuss an article (by me or another
student of deep ecology) about this fascinating and
critical subject. Any income derived from this would
be donated to a deserving deep ecological organ-
ization. Also, I strongly recommend

by Bill Devall
and George Sessions, Gibbs M. Smith, Inc., Salt
Lake City, 1985 ($15.95). .

I have written this letter because I am deeply ?
concerned by the suicidal and ecocidal impulse of 3
modern “civilization” which, in its advanced state f
of spiritual despair. ignores and denies its mem-
bership in the community of all living beings. The
great naturalist and prophet of the deep ecology
movement, Aldo Leopold, believed that humans
are “plain citizens” of the biotic community, not
lord and master over all other species. Nearly 40
years ago he wrote: “That land is a community is ‘
the basic concept of ecology, but that land is to
be loved and respected is an extension of ethics.”
On another occasion he deﬁned ethics in the fol-
lowing manner: “A thing is right when it tends to
preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the
biotic community. It is wrong when it tends other-
wise.”

JAMIE SAYEN ’71

31 Armour Road
Princeton, NJ 08540 .
609-924-0468

PAW welcomes letters from its readers on topics I
of general interest to the university community.

 

 

 




save the whales 1/\

. WILDLIFE
Blue whales are the largest animals that have ever

lived on earth. They are also peaceful, playful and
intelligent. Unfortunately, they are being hunted in
such great numbers that there are very few left alive.
You can learn more about whales and how you can
work to save them in this 4-page “letter from a
whale.” It was written by a person, of course, but it’s
what the whales would like you to know if they could
write to you!

directions: Use a postcard.
ask for: A Letter from a Whale

write to: Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

o“
\\ \\\\\\\\\ \\ r v””” \\>\\\\\\\\\

\_/j\\l

 

 

 




/\

WILDLIFE

elsa and her friends

Have you heard the story of Elsa the lioness or seen
the movie Born Free? The Elsa Clubs of America,
founded by the author of Born Free, are devoted to
educating people about the endangered wildlife of the
world. Send for a colorful bumper sticker and/or badge
with a picture of Elsa the lion cub and you’ll also
receive some interesting information about these clubs
and their projects.

directions: Use paper and an envelope. You
must enclose $1.00 for each item
that you request.

ask for: Born Free Bumper Sticker
Born Free Badge

write to: Born Free
P.O. Box 4572-X
North Hollywood, CA 91607

 

 




hMeddowbrook

 

October 2, 1984

Dear Friend:

The new edition of Free Stuff for Kids is back From the printers
and on its way to distribution across the country. We are
pleased with the new edition because the contents have been
reorganized and a number of Fresh items are available to new and
longtime Free Stuff readers.

Enclosed is a tearsheet of any page on which your offer or offers
appear in this edition. Please keep it for your files; you will
be contacted early next year to determine whether you want to
list in Free Stuff again and what changes you might like to see
in your entry. I wish that I could send each of you a copy of
the entire book, but obviously the expense would be too great.
hope that the tearsheet will give you a good idea of how your
entry does appear in the book.

Remember, kids will begin writing for items as soon as the book
is available to them, probably later this month. And you have
agreed to supply items through the end of 1985. If you run out
of an item and need to substitute something else, please send a
note with the replacement item to the children who have written
and explain the change. Also, please let us know of any change.
We get dozens of letters from perplexed and disappointed children
and parents when such a change occurs, and if we can explain the
circumstances to them they are unlikely to have a bad image of a
supplier.

This might sound corny, but kids do get very excited about this
book and your offers. Let's make the Free Stuff experience
pleasant and rewarding For both them and you.

Cordially,

k. \(‘t‘ W

Neal Kielar
Editor, Free Stuff for Kids

Enclosure

18318 Minnetonko Boulevard Deephoven, Minnesota 55391 Phone (612) 473-5400 (800) 328-7085 Telex. 752129

 




“NRC RESOURCE ENTRY- 07/22/85

PU869—10553
Animal Welfare Institute

P.O. Box 3650

Georgetown Station

Washington, DC 20007
TEL: (202) 337-2332

AREAS OF INTEREST: Humane treatment of laboratory animals;
humane education; marine mammals and endangered species,
including a Save the Whales campaign; farm animal welfare;
animal transport and slaughterhouse conditions.

HOLDINGS: Small collection of books. periodicals. and reports.

PUBLICATIONS: The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
(newsletter); Animals and Their Legal Rights (paperback book
on laws protecting animals); First Aid and Care of Small
Animals ; Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals ; The
Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird Trade ;
Facts About Furs ; Endangered Species Handbook ; pamphlets for
children on humane pet care; booklets, leaflets. reprints. A
publications list is available.

INFO SERVICES: Answers inquiries and provides consulting
services free; prbvides single copies of manuals free where
they will be of practical service in helping animals.

APPROVAL DATE: 8308
LATEST INFO DATE: 8308

INDEX TERMS: HUmane education, Animal protection, Laboratory
animals, Humane treatment of animals, Endangered species, Whales

 

@654 :12;

ENTRY APPROVED BY: L: - M ,
TITLE: /V(164%,AZD¢L/VT .

Please add to PUBLICATIONS:

Physical and Mental Suffering of
Experimental Animals, A Review of
Scientific Literature from 1975—1978

Beyond the Laboratory Door

Whales vs. Whalers

 




NUKTWI)NUAI.RHHWEFU1AJL(:EDWTFHK
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
Washington, D.C. 20540

Dear Colleague:

The enclosed text describing your organization was prepared
for use in our data base. It is available for on—line computer search—
ing and display within the Library and the U.S. Congress, and through
a network that reaches a number of other Federal agencies. It may have
also appeared in an early volume of our series of directories of infor—
mation resources, and may appear in future volumes. Finally, we may use
the description selectively in response to inquiries we receive from
researchers looking for sources of information in your area of expertise.

Please review the text for currency. Changes may be marked
directly on the copy. If you now have access to computerized data bases,
or maintain any of your own, and this is not mentioned in the text,
please describe them under "Holdings". Then sign the sheet and return
it to us——even if there are no changes, so that we will know that it has
been reviewed and approved. However, in the event your organization no
longer wishes to be registered with the National Referral Center, please
advise us accordingly.

Your cooperation will be appreciated and I look forward to
hearing from you soon.

Sincerely,

45%

Lloyd W. Shipley, Hea
Resources Analysis Section

Enclosures

 




FORMAT ELEMENTS FOR NRC DIRECTORIES

Most organizations can be adequately described using only the standard format
elements illustrated on the verso of this page. In some cases, the use of other
format elements may be helpful. The following illustrates the full range of
elements available in our computer-based format:

TRANSPORTATION, DEPARTMENT OF

Federal Highway Administration
Bureau of Public Roads Nested headings ,

-_. OFFICE OWEEE—A—RCH ANB ' M with a maximum of 5 ix
DEVELOPMENT hierarchical levels .
Engineering'Systems Division -

Electronic Computer Program Library —
Engineering Systems Division
Ofﬁce of Research and Development

US. Bureau of Public Roads . . .
Washington, DC. 20591 , Mai ling address and location ,

llmaﬁon; if they differ. May also be

‘Fairbanks Highway Research Station 111322331153; zﬁoograﬂg::t?:;n
461 1 Chain Bridge Rd. g .

McLean, Va.
Tel: (703) 557-5242

Optional paragraph in small type. May describe mission or sponsorship of an organization. Used only when required
to convey some unusual aSpect, or to provide a clarifying framework for the ensuing standard paragraphs.

Areas of Interest: A summary of the organization's overall interests, usually
presented in ”enumerative" (rather than narrative) style (see sample on verso).
Some day, we may apply ”keyword—in-context” (KWIC) machine indexing techniques
to this paragraph.

Holdings: A brief statement to convey the scope and approximate size of a libra—
ry collection, special information file, museum collection, data base, etc.
Unusual holdings, even if small in size, should be mentioned.

Publications: Not to be consted with "holdings," these are publications issued
or prepared by the organization being described. Give Actual Title and frequency
of periodicals (see sample). It is not practical for us to include long lists of
books or pamphlets. Mention publications list, if available.

Information Services: Here we are interested only in services provided to
outside organizations or persons. Mention any limitations, restrictions, or
special conditions affecting the services.

Optional paragraph, again in small type, used occasionally to describe special or unusual facilities bearing on the in-
formation services provided. May be laboratory or test facilities, a computer installation, or microforrn equipment.

LISTA. WEATHER BUREAU REGIONAL OFFICES

Regional climatologists, hydrologists, and other representatives of
ESSA user services may be consulted at the following locations: . . . .
The information resource being described

ma have a nationwide ro ram with man
New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Y P g Y

Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Ohio, North regional 0‘1“?“ ' The format Pemlts .
Camh-naJouthCamh-M listing a string of regional offices, as

shown at left.

Eastern Region: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts,

Weather Bureau Eastern Region
585 Stewart Ave.

Garden City, N.Y. 11530

Tel: (516) 248-2102

 




Center for Environmental Education

 

 

 

1925 K Street. NW. 0 Washington. DC. 20006 0 202/466-4996

’

Dear Friend:

The Center for Environmental Education is currently gathering
information that will be used to publish a directory listing aquatic
and marine educational organizations and resources. We would like to
include your group as an information source. The directory will be
distributed to teachers, students and aquatic and marine educators all
over the United States.

Please take time to complete the form in full and include as much
additional information as you think is necessary to describe yourself
clearly. Please remember that we are dealing with aquatic and marine
education, including urban waterfront projects, fresh water projects and
coastal studies.

If possible, please enclose single copies of your publications
and educational materials for review.

Please return all forms to Linda Boyer, c/o Twig George, Education

Coordinator, Center for Environmental Education, 1925 K Street, NW,
206, Washington, DC 20006. If you have any further questions or
suggestions feel free to contact us at 202/466—4996.

Thank you for your help.

Sincerely,

an x.

Linda S. Boyer

This is recycled paper.

 

 

 

 

 

 




Name of Agency or Organization: Animal Welfare Institute

Address (include state and zip code): P.0. BOX 3650 . Phone Number: 337“23
‘ Washington, D.C. 20007

Executive Director: Christine Stevens

Public Relations, Education and/or Phone Number/ 337—23
Information Officers: Fran Lipscomb / Extension:

Sheryl Sternenbérg

Areas and subjects of expertise and goals of agency: reduce suffering of labor-ate];-
animals; preservation of species threatened by extinction—~and save the whales
prevention of cruel experiments on animals by untrained youths;reform of cruel.
methods of raising animals in factory farms and reform of cruel trapping methods

KINDS OF SERVICES AVAILABLE
If additional space is needed, please feel free to include extra pages.

Field Study Centers (include locations, major topic of study and programs)
none

Grants (include amounts and who monies are made available to)

Small grants are occasionally made to individuals working on special
projects in the field of animal welfare.

Library (describe if necessary)
none

Speakers/Consultants (include topics, fees)

 

Greta Nilsson, authority on bird tradenauthor of Macaw report, otter reporg
Leon Bernstein, PhD, consultant in Physiology and Facts About

 

Conferences and Workshops Furs
Do you sponsor them? Do you make materials available if they are not sponsored by
you? What are the specific topics covered?
We do not sponsor conferences, but do send materials to the AALAS;
and representatives to the AVMA, NABT and NSTA conventions. Humane
education and lab animal information is distributed. (Comfortable

Quarters.fnr.Lahnratn§¥.Animals and Humane.Binlng¥_Erniects are two books
' W lCh are distributed
To 1 Free Number or Hotline

 

 

none

 




Audio Visual Materials

 

 

 

 

 

Titles and Grade Cost and/or
Descriptions Levels Rental Fee
Films
<:) The five films are color-coated with a green circle
Filmstrips
none

 

Slides or Slide Shows

none

 

Tapes, Cassettes, Recordings

 

 

i "Songs of the Humpback whale" from the National Geographic is color coated with a brown square

 

Video Tapes

none

 

Other

 




 

Educational Information

 

 

 

Titles and Grade Cost
Descriptions Levels

Educational Packets or Kits

. color coated with a black circle

 

School Visits and Speakers

none

 

Curriculum

" materials which could easily be utilized in an animal care and whale awareness curriculum
are coded with a red circle.

Fact Sheets

 

coded with a purple circle

 

Booklets

@ curriculum-related materials dealing with pet care are coded with a green circle

 

Posters and Pictures

0 the two posters available are coded with a blue circle.

//

 

Maps, Charts, Reprints

. the variety of reprints are coded with a brown circle ‘

 

Other

 




Publications

Titles and
Descriptions

Price or
Subscription Rates

Books

The various publications, most of which are free to libraries, and many free to teachers,
$é: are noted with a blue star.

 

Brochures and Pamphlets

O coded with a black diamond

 

Bibliographies

reading list dealing with whale—related publications

 

 

free
general reading list, reprinted from the appendix of Humane Biology Projects free
Magazines and Newsletters
<:) The Information Report,<quarterly report of the AWI and the National Geographic magazine

 

with the sound sheet from "Songs of the Humpback Whale" are coded with a red heart.

 

 




Projected development of additional materials, programs, staff, and facilities

. Revisions of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, Animal and Their
Legal Rights, The Bird Business are planned for the near future.

Other Information

Can you suggest other agencies or organizations that may be able to help us
complete our directory?

Please return all forms to Linda Boyer, c/o Twig George, Education Coordinator,
gggézr for Environmental Education, 1925 K Street, NW, Suite 206, Washington, DC

 




 

EDUCATIONAL
MATERIALS

AVAILABLE FROM THE

 

 

 

i ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

A0

‘ ~ I)

1

‘. .

.‘.,"; .

.....-:. 3 ‘

4 ' H“
V ‘ ’
'a y .
; 1. r, .
1. . .
,4
.

\
1

 

 

 

 




 

 

GENERAL. “

 

Animal Expressions

a photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s Expres-
sion of the Emotions in Man and Animals. Foreword
by F.J. Mulhern, D.V.M. 54 pages. 106 illustrations.
Animal Welfare Institute. Free on request to veterinar-
ians and persons employed by research institutions in
the management of animal colonies and care of ani-
mals. To others .................................... $2.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights

by Emily Leavitt and other authors. Summary and his-
% tory of laws affecting the welfare of animals in the Uni-
ted States. Animal Welfare Institute. Third edition,
1978. 215 pages. One copy free upon request to libra-
ries and humane societies. To others ................. $2.00

The Neighbours

7;” anthology of animal poems, illustrated by Fougasse,
"‘ 117 pages. Published by UFAW ..................... $2.00

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
)4? by Major C.W. Hume, M.C.,B.Sc., London, illustrated

by Fougasse. 100 pages. UFAW ..................... $2.00
Let Us Live
leaﬂet on trapping, illustrated in full color ............... Free

Facts About Furs
by Greta Nilsson and other authors. Revised edition,
X: Animal Welfare Institute, 1980. Over 100 pages of
/ information on the way furs are obtained throughout
the world. Over 30 illustrations. One copy free to
humane societies and libraries. To others ............. $3.00

Canada’s Shame

film produced by the Association for the Protection of
Fur-Bearing Animals showing the extreme suffering
undergone by animals caught in leghold traps, 16mm,
color, sound, 15 minutes. One week rental .......... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Federal Measures Against the Abuse of Wild Animals

by Nathaniel Reed, Assistant Secretary, U.S. Depart-
ment of the Interior. Reprint from The American Biolo-
gy Teacher, April 1974 ............................... Free

International Trade in Wildlife

by Tim Inskipp and Sue Wells. Published by Earth-
scan. London, 1979. 104 pages ...................... $3.00

Mexico; The Turtles are Gathering for Their Nesting Season

Massacre
reprinted from the Bulletin of the International Union
for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources . . .Free

The Shame of Escobilla
by Tim Cahill. Reprinted from Outside; 10 pages. An
. eyewitness account of the mass killing of sea turtles in
Mexico ............................................. Free

The Bird Business W 0{ ﬂit/l 62/
d

by Greta Nilsson. A study he importation of birds in-

to the United States. nj a1 Welfar I t' t , 1977.

81 pages . Meal/301v . 2 my? ........ $3.00
Oognapping

by Mary Warner. A study of the spread of dognapping,
prepared for Action 81, a citizens’ group devoted to its

prevention and arrest, 1979. 35 pages ................ $2.00
Information Report

Animal Welfare Institute quarterly .................... $3.00

'Towards the Ideal in an Animal Shelter .................. Free

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

Laboratory Dogs

16mm. sound film showing humane care and housing

of dogs in an experimental surgery laboratory. Pro-
duced by Crawley Films. One week rental ........... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals

illustrated manual, designed for those planning to
build, remodel or re-equip animal quarters. Animal
Welfare Institute. Revised edition, 1979. 108 pages,
165 illustrations. One copy free on request to scientific
institutions, veterinarians, or architects. To others ...... $3.00

Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals

. by William Hoffer. Reprint from College Management,
3 pages, May 1973 ................................... Free

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell & R.L. Burch, 238 pages ........... $5.00

The Rational Use of Living Systems in Bio-Medical Research

proceedings of the UFAW Symposium, including dis-
cussion of tissue cultures and other substitutes for test
animals for certain purposes. October 1971 ........... $1.00

More About Alternatives

by Dr. T.W. Hegarty of the Fund for the Replacement
. of Animals in Medical Experiments. Reprint of article
from Parenthese, Summer 1975 ...................... Free




SON

:ree

:ree

{.00

7ree

|.00

3.00

ree

ree

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals
A Review of Scientific Literature from 1975-1978 by
Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Animal Welfare Institute. 1979. 195 pages ............ $4.00

Beyond Adequate Veterinary Care
address delivered at American Veterinary Medical
Association Convention, Anaheim, California, 1975,
by Dr. Marjorie Anchel ............................... Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal
‘ Models of Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases. Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, 1976. 8 pages ............ Free

Humane Perspectives .

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Fu-
ture of Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Re-
search, Development, Education and Testing. National
Academy of Sciences, 1977. 9 pages .................. Free

THE FOLLOWING TWO ITEMS ARE AVAILABLE ONLY
TO PERSONS EMPLOYED IN SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS

Basic Care of Experimental Animals

, , fourth edition, written simply, designed for animal room

7% personnel, 78 pages. illustrated. Animal Welfare Insti-
tute. Free upon request only to persons employed in
scientific institutions. Available in English or Spanish.

Handling Laboratory Animals

16mm. sound film showing proper handling of 12 com-

mon species of laboratory animals. Produced by Mac-
Queen Films with cooperation of National Institute for
Medical Research, London, England. One week rental

. . . .. ............................................... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

 

HUMANE EDUCATION

 

O Humane Biology Projects
Animal Welfare Institute. Revised edition. 21 contribu-
tors, 57 pages, illustrated. Designed for use in secon-
dary schools. One copy free upon request to teachers,
librarians, humane societies. To others ................ $2.00

0 First Aid and Care of Small Animals

by Ernest P. Walker. Designed for use in secondary
schools. One copy free upon request to teachers, librar—
ians, humane societies and scout leaders. To others. . . .$2.00

W to Wmentaﬁon in Science Fairs
ne

an rules for Canadian Science Fairs, 1975 . . .Free

0 Rare and Endangered Birds (108 pages)

. Endangered, Threatened and Unique Mammals of the
Southern National Forests (121 pages)
Forest Service, US. Department of Agriculture.
One copy of each free on request to teachers.

 

Better Nutrition Studies

l . by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint from The American
Biology Teacher 3 pages, November 1970 ............. Free

Live Organisms in High School Biology

by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from The

American Biology Teacher, 4 pages, September 1972 Free

Attitudes Towards Animals

. by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher, 3 pages, February 1970 . . . .Free

Sanctified Torture

., by John Hillaby. Reprint of article from New Scientist,
1 page, January 1969 ................................ Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects

by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher, October 1974 ............. Free

Statement on Animals in Secondary ols »
‘ by Dr. . r tea n, C (WK/W
Medic , of nesse , 1 a e ............. Free

Vanishing Wildlife. A Unit on Endangered Species for the

Middle (@s f ‘/1 tr
by Pho Mpugghe bch'SP Productions, 1974
$

Good Kind Lion

0' for primary grades. 4 pages, UFAW. One copy ......... Free

Additional copies ....... . ......................... 20¢ each

Kittens and Cats
for primary grades. 12 pages, with pictures suitable for

a... coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy

free on request to teachers, librarians, humane socie-
ties. To others ................................... , . . . .20¢
Additional copies ................................ 20¢ each

You and Your Dog
for primary grades. 16 pages, with pictures suitable for
coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy

. free upon request to teachers, librarians, humane so-
cieties. To others ...................................... 20¢
Additional copies ..................................... 20¢

Befriending Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Childhood
. Education. For primary grades, 4 pages ................ Free

NOTE: Teachers please indicate grade level.

We regret that only reprints and leaﬂets can be provided free to
student teachers. Orders for manuals should be accompanied
by payment.

[Order blank on reverse side.]

 




 

 

MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION
8: MATERIALS ORDER FORM

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

I wish to become a non-voting member of
the Animal Welfare Institute: Cl $100 Life
Cl $25 Associate
El $10 Sustaining
E] $5 Contributing

(Subscription to Quarterly Information Report included)

NAME ..................................................
ADDRESS ..............................................
............................ ZIPCODE..................
INSTITUTION (if any) ..................................
Please send me the items checked for which I enclose $ ..... X
Payment Must Accompany Order
. 0
Additional order instructions: .............................
I
I
I

 

Please use the form below for SAVE THE WHALES

campaign orders.
NAME ..................................................
ADDRESS ..............................................

""""""""

CONTRIBUTION $ ......................................




lmlﬁ'll

 

SAVE THE WHALES
CAMPAIGN ORDER FORM

 

ijAVE THE WHALES ﬂier explaining how you can help. Free

.u

g’ﬁArticles published from 1971 to 1980 in the AWI Infor-
--'i~»“‘ motion Report on national and international efforts to
prevent extinction of whales ................ Single copy free

La:

EfReport on the last annual meeting of the lntemational
Whaling Commission ................................ Free

The Great Whales
16mm, sound, color, 1 hour, by the National Geogra-
phic Society. One week rental ...................... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Last Days of the Dolphins?
Dick Cavett narrates this film containing footage ob-
tained after a court fight with tuna interests showing
the tragic killing of dolphins in tuna purse seines. 16mm,
color, sound, 27 minutes. One week rental .......... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Vanishing Giants

X. the history, biology, and fate of the Great Whales. 24

pages .............................................. $2.00

How to Liven Up Your Classroom with a Pod of Whales

for teachers, 2 pages .................................. Free

A Whale of a Friend

. an ocean giant and man play together in an historic
.. happening. 4 pages. Reprint from Toronto Star, Feb~
ruary28,1976 ........... Free

A Letter from a Whale

O. by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades. Animal
Welfare Institute, 1977. 4 pages ....................... Free

Humpbacks—The Gentle Whales
January, 1979 issue of “The National Geographic” in
. which a special sound sheet recording, “Songs of the

Humpback Whale” with commentary by Roger Payne.
0 Phil, appears ............................. ' ......... $1 50

Campaign materials:

. Poster ........................... » ................ One free
Button .......................................... One free
Bumper Sticker .................................. One free
T-shirts. Adult small, medium, large or x-large ......... $6.00

Children’s medium or large ................. $5.00

Slx'COIOT print, measuring 20”x26”, of an original painting by
Richard Ellis of a mother Humpback whale and her calf. Suit-
able for framing, it is available to anyone donating $15 or more
to the Animal Welfare Institute’s SAVE THE WHALES campaign.

 

DR. SCHWEITZER’S MESSAGE TO
THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

I am profoundly moved that you would like to give my
name to the medal you have created. I give you this right
with all my heart. I would never have believed that my
philosophy, which incorporates in our ethics a compassion-
ate attitude toward all creatures, would be noticed and
recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would impose
itself one day on human thought, but it is the great and
moving surprise of my life that I should still be able to witness
this progress of ethics.

Your medal celebrates this progress: philosophy obliged to
intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so little
interest in them.

Lambaréné
May 2, 1951

 

BROCHURE & SYMBOL DESIGN: CACHALOT DESIGN GROUP
MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS

 




QctbbAr A7, lgﬁﬁ

Mabel Clair AAAAAA
MaﬁéAon Scurnal
AAllulAh, LA

DAAr MA. PlAckA,

TAAAA ycu for AAAtiAAiAA AAA AAA AAiAiAA AA AAAAA Aboat AAAA in

the July BlAt AAitiAA AA AAA AAAiA AA JouznAl. The AAAAAI AAlAArA
InAtitutA provAdAA AAAArAl AA its AAAAAIA AAA All AA AAA rAArAAr
AAA leaflAtA AAAA AA rAquAAt AA lﬁbrafiea. AniAAlA AAA “AAAA LAqu

 

 

 

EggAh; AAAA Aialggy ArAjAAtA, AAA AAA AAAAntly rAviA 3A FAAAA AAA
and CAATM 0f umA?l.AA1m 1A Are All AVAAlAAlA ArAA to AleArixA

I encchA A liAtiAg of our eduAAtLAAAA AAtArlalA AAA AAAAAA yau
to orAAr thoAA which intArAAt 30A.

Please 1AA AA knAw if van 'a liAA AA AA AAA AA AA AAA AAA'A AAiAiAg
11st and that AA AAA AiAtAr orgAAiA Atian, AAA AaciAtv AAA AAiAAl
PAotAAtive LegislatiAA. I AAAAOAA AA AAAAAtion AA beta.

Sincerely,

shezyl Sternmnbwrg
AublicaticmA SAAAAtAAy

 




  
   
     
           

 

“Old books, as you well know, are
books of the world’s youth, and new
books are fruits of its age.” O.W.
Holmes, THE PROFESSOR AT
THE BREAKFAST TABLE

KRAMER VERSUS KRAMER,
by Avery Corman, is the cap-
tivating novel about a man who is
deserted by his wife and left to care
for his four-year—old son. It offers
fresh insight into the other side of
women’s liberation.

FREE TO CHOOSE is described
as "a personal statement” by
Milton and Rose Friedman. “The
Friedmans eloquently diagnose the
problems facing America and
make imaginative proposals for
change. It is ‘must reading’ for
everyone—from the President to
the private citizen—who is con-
cerned with the future of America”
— Ronald Reagan.

THE EMERALD NECKLACE is
a love story by Diana Brown. This
refreshing historical romance
takes its endearing hero and
spirited heroine from a world of
pomp and glitter in Regency
London to the Yorkshire mills
scene of strikes and riots during
the Industrial Revolution.

BITTERSWEET is the
autobiography of Susan Strasberg,
the story, told with unflinching
honesty, of a young girl to whom
fame and glamour came naturally,
but whose most rewarding
achievements are growing up and
becoming a woman.

THE HAMBURG SWITCH by
Angus Ross is a mystery about an
elderly scientist, working on laser
development in East Berlin, who
wants to defect. Mark Farrow is
given the job of getting him out.

Richard Wolfe’s LEGIT
PROFESSIONAL FAKE BOOK
contains the words and music of
more than 1010 songs, including old
sons like “Wait Till the Sun Shines.
Nellie” to songs by the Beatles. If
you need the words and music for

     
    
     
     
      
     
  
       
      
    
       
     
    
     
      
    
      
       
       
   
    
    
   
   
    
    
    
     
     
   
      
      
   
   
    
    
    
   
     
     
     
     
    
      
    
      
      
     
     
   
  

 
 

Undercover atyour

9' Madison Parzsh rary

By Adobe! Clair Placke i

any song for any purpose, you’re
likely to find it here.

P. D. James’ new novel IN-
NOCENT BLOOD goes beyond the
bounds of the mystery story to
explore the themes of the growth of
love and the search for identity.

No one has any answers about
the high cost of living. But one
enterprising and attractive lady
learns how to make ends meet—
she steals. Antonia is a struggling
graduate student at Berkeley who
sort of drifts into the crime of
stealing. McQuade, the Bay Area’s
most eligible bachelor, sets off in
hot pursuit of the LADYCAT. What
follows is high adventure that’s a
treat to read. The author is Nancy
Greenwald.

Gerald Bordman’s JEROME
KERN, HIS LIFE AND MUSIC is
likely to become the standard work
on the man who invented American
popular music. Bordman shows a
keen understanding-and sym-
pathy—for Kern the man and Kern
the musician.

RETURN TO THE PHILIP-
PINES is another book in Time-
Life series on World War II, con-
cerned with the Japanese oc—
cupation of the Philippines, 1942-
1945.

As NEIGHBORS by Thomas
Berger Opens, a young couple
moves into the house next door to
Earl Keese, a pudgy homeowner
living on a dead—end road in the
country. They begin almost im-
mediately to harass Keese in a
fashion that seems by turn fetching
and sinister. And Keese’s reac~
tions follow suit.

THE DOWN COMFORTER by
Juliene Berk tells how to beat
depression and pull yourself out of
the blues. It brings a unique
viewpoint, encouragement, and
practical advice, leavened with
humor, to a problem that afflicts

 
 

 

over ten million Americans.

THE ROAD FROM HOME.
written by David Kherdian about
his mother is an extraordinary
biography that is also a record and
reminder of yet another infamous
holocaust in our century, the- Ar-
menian massacres of 1915-1923.

As the Shan’s ambassador to the
United Nations and the brother of
the former Iranian Prime
Minister. Fereydoun Hoveyda has
written a unique account of
political and personal forces that
destroyed the Iranian monarchy
and a 2,500 year-old tradition
which, as the Shah obsessively
pointed out, made him a descen-
dant of Cyrus and Darius. The
book is THE FALL OF THE SHAH.

ATLANTIS FIRE by Gary
Goshgarian, a superbly crafted
novel, set amid the mystery and
majesty of the Aegean, combines
high tension and suspense with a
terrifying realism, climaxing in an
unforgettable sea battle between
two armies in wetsuits deep in the
exhaust vents of a submerged
volcano.

Alcohol is described as the No. 1
drug threat to young people today.
TEENAGE DRINKING by Robert
North and Richard Orange tells
what you should know about
adolescence and alcohol and what
to do about it.

FACTS ABOUT FURS is a ”gift
book published by the Animal
Welfar ' One year after
publication of the first edition of
FACTS ABOUT FURS England
and Wales outlawed what the
British call the “grin trap" or the
steel jaw leghold trap. Since then
48 countries have banned this
inhumane trap. This book has as
its purpose the education of the
people to the horrors of trapping .7
for furs as it is now practiced in
the hOpe that the leghold t1 .9 may

be banned in the ITS. also.
See you at the library?

   




WeadOWbtbolg ‘Pz’éss

3 November 1980

Dear FREE STUFF FOR KIDS supplier:

You'll soon be receiving a copy of the new edition of FREE
STUFF FOR KIDS, which has just been published. I'm very
pleased to send it to you.

To the veterans of previous editions of the book I'd like

to express my gratitude to you for your willingness to appear
in this new edition. And to those of you whose offers appear
in the book for the first time, welcome! When you receive
your COpy of the book, please take a few moments to check

the accuracy of your offer, and if you do note any mistakes,
bring them to my attention as soon as you can--we'll correct
them at the next printing.

As all of you know, this new edition pledges that the offers
described in it will be available through the end of 1981,
and I trust you will not have any difficulty with this
pledge. I recognize, however, that you cannot do the
impossible, and as the introduction to the book explains,

we do not expect you to handle requests that are improperly
made, that do not contain the necessary postage and handling
fees (or a SASE), and you won't, of course, be able to handle
illegible requests. All we ask is that you try your best--
and the success of the book this past year testifies to your
ability to make a lot of children happy with the "free stuff"
you distribute.

In the past year, you might be interested in knowing, we sold
just over 500,000 copies of the book, which appeared, on

and off, on the New York Times best-seller list. The first
printing of this new edition was 50,000 copies, and I expect
we'll go through at least another edition before 1981 is over.
I'll keep you informed of subsequent printings.

 

Finally, thank you again for your help and cooperation in
making this book possible. We appreciate your contribution.

Cordially,

Tom Grady
Editor

Enclosure
P.S. We're occasionally asked, by organizations whose offers

appear in the book, how they might get additional copies. A
discount chart and order form is provided for anyone interested.

18318 Mlnnetonka Blvd. 0 Deephaven, MN 55391 0 (612) 473-5400

 




c7I/Ieadowaoolg‘P1’éss

DISCOUNT RATES

If you're interested in purchasing additional copies
of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS, you may buy them at the

following discounts:
1 copy $2.95 (cover price)
2-5 copies $2.65 each
6-19 copies $2.35 each
20 or more c0pies $1.75 each

For rates on 500 or w: ;' please contact
George Cleveland, ' i J at (612)-473—5400.

Orders must be prepaid. Meadowbrook will pay for
postage and handling of books.

 

I would like to order c0pies of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS
at per copy. Enclosed is a check or money order for
made out to Meadowbrook Press.

 

Send books to:

 

N ame

 

Organization

 

Address

 

 

City State

 

 

 

Please return to: Meadowbrook Press
Dept. DM
18318 Minnetonka Blvd.
Deephaven, MN 55391

18318 Minnetonka Bhld. 0 Deephaven, MN 55391 0 (612) 473-5400

 




NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION

1412 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washington, DC. 20036 202—797-6800

 

July 1980

Dear Conservationist:

The National Wildlife Federation is now preparing the twenty—sixth
annual edition of its CONSERVATION DIRECTORY, a comprehensive list-
ing of organizations, agencies, and officials concerned with
natural resource use and management in the United States and Canada.

Enclosed is a print-out of your listing as it appears in the 1980
CONSERVATION DIRECTORY. Please draw a line through material to be
deleted and type corrections directly above the line being corrected.
Additional information may be added at the end or inserted in the
existing text where appropriate. Please have the person making the
revision sign the print-out in the space provided.

In order to have this updated information included in the 1981
Directory, the corrected sheet must be returned to us by September
15, l98Q. A reply envelope is enclosed for your convenience. If
there are no changes, please return the print—out with that nota—
tion.

 

The 1981 Directory will be available in January 1981. A complimentary
copy — just one per organization — will be sent to you. Additional
copies may be ordered by writing the Federation.

Thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely,

K.

ll__1,;D

'HKmmSI“ KHﬂ3_L
:' ice President

P.S. Throughout the year many groups have submitted revisions to
us and this information is passed on to our staff. However,
please include on this print-out any previously submitted information.

Enclosures

45th ANNUAL MEETING — MARCH 27-29, 1981 Omni International Hotel Norfolk, Virginia

700% reclaimed paper

 




IMPORTANT NOTICE

 

Please make a copy of your corrected listing and return both the‘
copy and the original to us.

We need a copy for the printer and a copy for our files.

Thank you,

award/m; @Mi
Jeannette Bryant
Editor

 




u 0

1?35.000

1136.000
1137.000
1138.000
1139.000
11Q0.000
11u1.ooo
11M2.000
11u3.000
11QQ.OOO
11Q5.000
11u6.000
11U7.000
1148.000
11u9.000
1150.000

1151.000

/.§’3'

DC 20007 (202,

ANIMAL WELFARE ILSTITUTE,

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, 337-2333)

(Active in improvement of conditions for laboratory animals,
sane~+he.u#buhacxvme274ﬁ
protection of endangered specieswand humane education. Albert

Schweitzer award is presented annually for outstanding contribution

to animal welfare. membership: «.500. Founded: 1951.)

President: CHRISTINE STEVENS (202, 337-2332)

Vice President: CYNTHIA HILSON (202, 833-3892)

Secretary: EBEJORIE COOKE (U01, 8Q9-22u9)

Treasurer: ROGER STEVENS (202,'25u-3606)

Admin. Asst.: LINDA TYRRELL (202, 337-2333)

whale Campaign Coordinator:

LYNNE HUTCHISON (703, 9n1—53u3)

Publications Secretary: SHERRY STERRENBERG

(202, 337—2333)

Publication: Information Report (quarterly)

Editor: CHRISTINE STEVENS

SIGNATURE OF APPROVING OFFICER:'

 




INSTRUCTIONS

Review your listing in the 1980 Directory and on the print-out
enclosed. If the information is correct, affix the signature and
title of the approving officer in the space provided at the bottom
of the print-out and return it to us in the enclosed reply envelope
by September 15, 1980. TO RETAIN YOUR LISTING IN THE DIRECTORY, YOU
MUST RETURN THE PRINTED FORM.

If corrections are necessary, please type them in on the sheet
directly above the appropriate line. Make deletions where necessary
by drawing a pencil line through material to be deleted. Affix,

the signature of the approving officer on the print-out in the

space provided and return the corrected sheet to us by September 15,
1980.

 

To help make your job of providing information easier, we have as-
signed numbers to the groupings in the Directory as follows:

GROUP 1. United States or Canadian Government Agency

GROUP 2: International, National or Interstate Commission

GROUP 3' International, National (including Canada) or
Interstate (regional) Organization

GROUP 4: State or Provincial Government Agency

GROUP 5' State-wide or Province-wide Citizens' Group

The following information is needed for the groups indicated.
Please be sure your listing includes:

Groups l-S Complete name, mailing address (including ZIP code),
and telephone number (including area code) of the
organization.

A brief statement (no more than fifty words) of
the organization's purpose; also, founding date,
membership, and date of annual convention.

A telephone extension or direct-dial number

for each person listed. (List private telephone
numbers only for persons who cannot be reached
at organization number.)

Titles of periodical publications - magazines and
newsletters - with the name and address of the
editor.

Groups 1,2,4 Names and titles of principal officers down to
and including program or division heads and
regional directors.

 




9-3

QQQQQQQ

QQiQN QQQQQ

FQQQQiQQ CQZQmQ
'SQQQQ 1Q WthlmthQ
PQQQ EQQQQEQQQQQQQ
Sea. Box 1999

531 Wall SQQQQQ
gﬂﬁttlég WaSh 98111

DQQQ Mrs Wﬁiﬁﬁa

Thank yQQ fQQ the QQQQ QQQQQ yQQ QiQ QQ the QQQQQQ QQQSQQQ
QQQ QQQQ bQQkiQQQ ”KQQQQQQ QQQ CQQQ " “Yea QQQ EQQQ SQQ” ,
Kinﬁ LiQn“, whiQQ QQQQQQQQ in QQQ FQQQQLQQ QQlQQiQ Qf QQQ Sw
Washinthn PQQt intell QgQ QQQQ QQQ QQQQQ QapQrQ ma QQQQQQQQQ
QQQQQVQQ many QQQQQQQQ er th QQQthQQQ QQ Q QQQQQQ QQQQQQ
piecee

I QanQQe Q liQtng Qf QQQQQQQQQQl mQtQQinQ QVQiIQQlQ QQQ QQQ
Animal WQISQQQ inﬁtitatﬁg QQQ invitQ yQQ QQ QQQQQ any QQQQQ iQQQQQQQ
you.

Q

Thanks agQi Q QQQ thQ QQQQ article yQQ QiQ

Sincerely,

Sheryl Sternenberg
Publicatiens SQQQQtQIy

Enclosure

 




FEEEBIES Magazine 2217 Neilson Way Box 5605 Santa Monica, CA 90405

f " Press Request 1

Hello:

FREEBIES is a nationally-syndicated newspaper
column carried by The Washington Post, the San
Francisco Examiner, the Chicago Tribune and
approximately 50 other papers.

I'm seeking new material that would be of
interest to a general audience, and would
appreciate your assistance. If the material listed
below is available free ("free" can include a
minor postage and handling charge, or a request
that readers send a self—addressed, stamped
envelope), please return a sample at your earliest
convenience so that I may consider it for use in
the column.

If your organization offers other freebies
that are available nationally (including services
hotlines, product samples, films or publicationsS
please let me know about them.

It'helps a lot if'I have the name and phone
number of a contact at each organization. That's
the purpose of the enclosed card, which I'd
appreciate receiving along with your free
material.

Should you have any questions at all, please
call. The FREEBIES phone number is 213-392-3096.

Thanﬂ You.
74%

Brian.weiss

’9

"good Kind Lion" q?fﬁ/f%
"Kittens and Cats"

"You and Your Dog"

"First Aid and Care of Small Animals"

+~ c~7bu&24_3ffﬁg

SM’L- +meP3/‘5

 




Anlmal AdjeCtIVGS Use this simple activity to focus on both the use of adjectives in each word describes the corresponding animal. Focus special attention
similes and what using those adjectives can tell us about our attitudes on those words which may be used as value judgments about the ani-
by Beverly ArmStrong toward the animals. mals (i.e. ls a rat really sneaky?).
and Charlotte Moore Distribute copies of the worksheet to each student and have them fill With older students, the activity may develop into a discussion of
in the names of animals that may be described by each adjective. Then anthropomorphism. Do any of the words attribute human
discuss their responses, asking the students to identify why they think characteristics to the animals?

718 U7

*n 03 .
Zr E :1 E
)> m 3
0’ g 8;

Fuzzy AS A
CATERPILLAK

FKI ENDLY A5
CUKIOUS A5

FAT
AS A

QUIEY A5
A WYFUG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BUM FY AS

Him/Mil; ANE@TWE§

$8
$22;
:2“),
8(1)

SLIPPEKY AS
GKACE FUL AS
FIEKCE AS
SEKlOUS AS
ENEKGEHC A5
NEKVOUS A5
LOVABLE A5

MlSCi-l l EVOU$ AS
MAGNIFICENT AS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Education/September 1980

 




ANIMAL ACTIVITIES

Dottie Nelson and Sherry Ryther
of the Addison County Humane So-
ciety, Inc., Animal Shelter, RD 2
(Cornwall), Middlebury, VT 05753,
have compiled a variety of humane
education ideas, materials, and re-
sources in a handbook for elemen-
tary school teachers. Entitled Ani-
mal Activities, the handbook in-
cludes major sections on domestic
and wild animals, along with special
sections on resources, organizations,
recommended books available at 10-
cal libraries, and films. Also en-
closed with the handbook is an as-
sortment of materials for duplica-
tion and distribution to students.
For more information about the
handbook, contact Dottie or Sherry
at the above address.

MORRIS CHATS
ABOUT CATS

Morris the Cat and the 9-Lives
Company’s latest endeavor is an
educational program for grades 4 to
6 that provides a broad selection of
information about all kinds of cats.
Using activity spiritmasters and a
colorful wall chart, Morris Chats
About Cats helps students become
aware of the origin, history, and care
of the domestic cat. A teacher’s
guide is included to provide a frame-
work for using the activities effec-
tively. Free copies of Morris Chats
About Cats (limit one order per
class) are available from Star-Kist
Foods, Inc., P.O. Box 14306, Dayton,
OH 45414.

WHALES AND FRIENDS

A delightful coloring storybook
about whales and human efforts to
save them is now available from
Greenpeace, 286 Congress Avenue,
Boston, MA 02210. Written by
Christopher Roof and Douglas
Smith, The Whale Friends tells the
story of four young friends who
build a small clipper ship and sail off
to save the whales from hunters’
harpoons. The simple poetic style

and clear illustrations designed for
coloring make the storybook perfect
for young readers. To order a copy,
send $3 to Greenpeace at the above
address.

BKA WEEK ACTIVITIES

Working with the local library,
the Humane Society of N acogdoches
County, PO. Box 4639, SFA Sta-
tion, Nacogdoches, TX 75962, pro-
duced and distributed bookmarks
and reading lists for young readers
during Be Kind to Animals Week
last May. The bookmarks, designed
to be colored by children, contain a
poem describing eight rules to re-
member in order to have a happy pet
on one side and a list of recom-
mended books about dogs on the
other. The reading list identifies
books with a humane theme that are
available in the N acogdoches li-
brary. For sample copies of the
bookmarks and reading lists, write
the Nacogdoches Public Library,
N acogdoches, TX 75962.

ARK Humane Education Service,
Box 65, Warren, MI 48090, cele-
brated BKA week by distributing a
new Pet Owners ’ Guide it has devel-
0ped. The guide identifies and de-
scribes local animal agencies and or-
ganizations and the services they of-
fer. ARK also donated a number of
copies of Careers: Working With
Animals, The Humane Society of
the United States’ resource book on
animal-related careers, to local li-
braries and is offering to send a copy
of the Animal Welfare Institute’s
Humane Biology Projects free to
local science teachers who request it.
For further information on ARK’s
activities, write the organization at
the above address.

As its BKA Week project, the
Pennsylvania SPCA, 350 East Erie
Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19134, de-
veloped a Pet Acquainted Day pack-
et, available free to elementary
school teachers. The packet contains
enough ideas and supplemental
materials for a full day of animal-

12—Humane Education/Sep tember 1980

.
0'
.

.
.0
0'
.

related classroom activities. Les-
sons in language arts, math, science,
drama, and art are included.

Barbara Marchese, Program Co-
ordinator for the Pennsylvania SPCA,
reports that the organization is also
publishing Teachers ‘n’ Creatures, a
new humane education newsletter
for local teachers. The newsletter in-
cludes suggestions for curriculum
integrated activities, book reviews,
freebie resources, articles about
classroom pets, and an idea-ex-
change column. If you’d like to re-
ceive more information about the
Pet Acquainted Day packet or the
Teachers ‘n’ Creatures newsletter,
contact Barbara at the above
address.

ACTS ABOUT FURS

A newly revised and expanded in-
depth study of the fur trade, Facts
About Furs: A New Look at Fur
Trapping and the Fur Industry, has
just been published by the Animal
Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3650,
Washington, DC 20007. Compiled
after four years of extensive re-
search, the book examines the
species of animals trapped, the kind
of traps used, the fur trade industry,
and the relationship of trapping to
endangered species. The 258-page il-
lustrated book is available at no cost
to humane societies and libraries
(single copies only) or at a cost of $3
to all others. Send your orders to
Animal Welfare Institute at the
above address.

PET-FACILITATED
THERAPY

A resource list and notes on pet-
facilitated therapy has been com-
piled by the San Francisco SPCA,
2500 16th Street, San Francisco, CA
94103. The two-page ﬂyer discusses
the uses and benefits of animals as
companions for emotionally and/or
physically handicapped people. If
you’re interested in receiving the
ﬂyer, write to Ken White, Education
Coordinator, to request a copy.

 




Established
1934

414-326-3126

EDUCATORS INDEX OF
FREE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
FILMS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
FILMSTRIPS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
AUDIO AND VIDEO
MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GRADE GUIDE
TO FREE TEACHING AIDS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
SCIENCE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
SOCIAL STUDIES
MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
GUIDANCE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
HEALTH. PHYSICAL EDUCATION
AND RECREATION MATERIALS

ELEMENTARY TEACHERS Gl'IDE
TO FREE CURRICULUM
MATERIALS

_tions you have placed upon the offer.

Patricia H. Suttles
Publisher

EEhuratnrs ﬁrngwss ﬁerhiw, (311:.

214 Center Street
Ilandohﬂu VVEconsn153956

November 12, 1979

Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Friend:

The new edition of EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS.
is now being prepared for distribution to junior-
senior high schools and colleges for use during the
coming school year. The INDEX is revised annually in
order to list Current printed materials of educational
value which may be of use to school administrators,
teachers, librarians and students.

If you distribute free materials of educational value
and would like them to be listed in the latest edition
of the INDEX, please complete the enclosed Listing
Sheet. There is no charge to 222 for this listing in
the EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALSO Your only
obligation will be to provide the materials listed to
prOperly qualified individuals or institutions who
request them from you in accordance with the restric-
Requests will be
made directly to the address which you provide on the
enclosed Listing Sheet. Typical items which are listed
in the INDEX are pamphlets, booklets, books, magazines,
newsletters, leaflets, maps, posters, charts, pictures,
displays, and exhibits. We regret that we are unable
to list catalogs in our INDEX.

If you would like to have your materials listed in the
new edition of the EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS,
please complete the enclosed Listing Sheet and forward
two c0pies of each item which you wish to have considered
for inclusion in the INDEX.

Please contact us for any additional information you
might wish to have.

YOur c00peration is very much appreciated.

Sincerely yours,

égﬁgiuaéc_Zé/2§2e<xu2¢n___

Linda K. Keenan, Editor

EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
222 Park Avenue

Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916
(Telephone: 414-887-8677)

 




The Library of Congress

Congressional Research Service

Washington, DC. 20540

It ;?/’ _ November 2, 1979

Sir or Madam:
We need your cooperation, please.

The Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress is
preparing a new edition of its publication, Directory of Environmental
Organizations and Contacts in Washington, D.C. It lists, for the
convenience of congressional offices, groups with environmental interests,
including their Washington addresses, purposes, publications, and names
and telephone numbers of individuals in Washington who can be contacted
for information on specific topics. There is a separate section where
the contacts are listed by topic.

 

 

'We are enclosing a list of the tOpics and a copy of your listing
in the last edition. (For new groups, we enclose a sample listing.)
Please make necessary corrections, add any new contacts you want to
list, and return the information to us by Friday, November 30th. We
will print the listing as it is if no corrections are received by that
time.

If there are any questions, contact Ms. Lee Decker (287-6467/26)
or Ms. Suzy Platt (287-5743). Please return the information to:

Ms. Lee Decker

CRS/CRD

Library of Congress
Washington, D.C. 20540

Thank you for your cooperation, which is essential to this project.

Sincerely,

 




Contacts:

Brent Blackwelder, Chairman of the Board
Dave Conrad, Assistant Director -- Wild and Scenic Rivers
Howard Brown, Director

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007
337-2333

The Institute describes its purpose as being to promote
animal welfare, i.e., to reduce the fear and pain inflicted on
animals by man. Its major activity at present is Coordinating
the "Save the Whale" campaign. The Institute also distributes
numerous publications aimed at the prevention of unnecessary ex-
periments on animals. A sister organization, the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation, is a registered lobbying organiza-
tion.

Publications:

 

Animal and their Legal Rights Comfortable Quarters for

Humane Biology Projects Laboratory Animals

Animal Expressions

Basic Care of Experimental Animals Physical and Mental Suffering
FaCts abOUt Furs of Experimental Animals

Contacts:

Christine Stevens, President
Linda Tyrrell _, Administrative Assistant

CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION
2100 M Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20037

466-3055

The Center for Environmental Education is a tax-exempt non-
profit organization with over 200,000 supporters worldwide, whose
major project is organizing support for the Whale Protection Fund,
in order to abolish commercial whaling. This involves coordina-
tion of an international petition drive, a public information cam-
paign that includes extensive media advertising, as well as commu-
nicating directly with the concerned government officials.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE or cosTENrs

PART 1. ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP CONTACTS

SECTION A. CONTACTS -" ARRANGED BY ALPHABETIZE”:

Air Quality ...............................................
Alaska ....................................................
Coastal Zone/Outer Continental Shelf .....................
Drinking Water 0..................................‘.......

Energy 0.00.00.00.00....95.00.0000000COCOOOIIIOOOOI...O...

Environmental Economics ..................................
Environmental Impact Statements ..........................

Forestry .................................................

Fuels ................................................o...

International ............................................

Land Use .................................................

Law of the Sea ...........................................

Marine Mammals and Fisheries .............................

Materialsgand Growth ......................................
Nuclear Power ......................................o......
Occupational Health and Safety ..s.............a.e.........
Population ................................................
Public Lands (including national parks, etc.) .,.,,_,,,,,‘,
River Basins and Corps of Engineers .......................
Solid Haste ......................................ﬁ........
Strip Mining and Mining ...................................
Toxic Substances ................................6.........
Transpertation ..............9.......................°.....
Utility Rates .............................................
Water Pollution ..................a........................
Water Resources ...........................................
Wetlands ..................................................
wilderness ................................................
Wildlife and Animal Protection ...........................

OOCDODNNJNJU‘O‘Q"\O‘U1MUIMJ~\4>$‘WLOLOWMNNNP-‘t-HHt-d

 




Air Quality 0.000QOOOOOOOOQOOOOOGOODO
Alaska

 

 

 

TABLE OF coarsnis

PART I. EﬁVIRONMENTAL GROUP CONTACTS

SECTION A. CONTACTS -— ARRANGED BY ALPHABEIIZEE

.QOOSOOIGQO

....I.OOIOOOCO0..OOOOOCOOIOOOOOOQOQCOIIOO

Coastal Zone/Outer Continental Shelf ...........

Drinking Water ......................

.QOOOOOIOO'

Energy 00......I....000.0..OOOCOOOOCIOOOOOOGOOOO

Environmental Economics .............

Environmental Impact

Forestry .............................
Fuels ............;...................
International ........................
Land Use i............................
Law of the Sea .......................
Marine Mammals and Fisheries .........
Materialsiand Growth .................
Nuclear Power ........................
Occupational Health and Safety .............
Pepulation .............................a...

tatements ................

Public Lands (including national parks, etc.) ...
River Basins and Corps of Engineers ....a........

SOlid waste 0 O O O O O O Q 0 O c O O 0 O I O 0 O O O O O I O O I O O I O 0
Strip Mining and Mining 0 O 6 I O O O O O O O I Q I O 9 O O O i O I O O G
TOXiC substances 0 O O I O O O O O 0 O O O I O O O O O O O O O G O O 0

Transportation .....
Utility Rates ......
water Pollution ....
Water Resources ....
Wetlands ...........

Q

60....

9....-OOOQOOCOOOOOOOOIOOODOO

00....COCOOOOOOIOOOOOOOQDOOOO

0.0...O...OOOOOOOOOOOOODOOOOOOO

0..PO..00....0.000000000009000. U.

ICOODOOOOOIOOOGOOOOOOOOQSO6IOI...C.

Wilderness 09.9.0...0.099SOOOOOO...OIOOOOOOOOOOOIOOOOOO¢OOQ

Wildlife and Animal Protection ...........................

E“ """b‘" -’°‘" ”Wanner my var-car «,v._..._wr-ﬂmu_;.m.~ . arr

OOQDOO‘-J'-J‘~JO”\C3‘m0\kﬂLN‘ka-F‘$‘®“LOUDWLANNNND—‘HF—‘W

 




auguat 30, 1979

Katha Grooms

Editor

MeadGWbrock Press
15235 Minnetonka Blvd.
Minnetonka, EN 553h3

Ewar Ms. Groams:

In respénse to your news release, balaw are short descriptions

of three publications which are available tram the antmal welfare
Institute, of special interest to chﬁldren. ,

KITTEES ans CATS

by Christine Stevens, Huron Vallay Hum&ne Society

Ear primary gradﬁa, 12 pages suitable for coloring. Text and
pictures encourage hwmane treatment, greater understanding,‘

of cats, and the importance of spaying and neutaring to prevent
birth of unwanted kittens. 20$ each¢

YOU AND’YOUB DOG

by Christine Stevens, Huron Valley Humane Society

16 pageS‘With pictures shitable for coloring. Encaurages proper
care for pats including aiercise on thealeash, keeping your

dog safe at hams, licenaing, veterinary care, and the correct
approach to use Wham maeting dogs. 30¢ each.

GOOD KIR‘D 21.212019;f
Uhivarsities Federation for inimal welfare
written and illuatratad by Fangasse, former editor and cartoonist
of the fﬁmous British,mag&zine, ”Punch“.

Eﬁmnurages humane treatment and stresses kindness to all animals
from pet dogs and cats to insects and fish in the pond.'
one capy free, &dditional copias 20¢ each, In pages.

Thank yen for the Opportunity to advartisa in FREE STUFF FOR KIDS.

Sincerely,

 




W’w - YJWfH’ » “*1!“
z_ Eggﬂw-h , t «.42.;

.; a <::§7l<1ziélfit)“ﬁtlli)(IIkL:C]F?ri§£;£;

t
k' R ‘

;,H_..Greetings!

I'd iike to ca11 your atteotion to
theenciosed release about an opportunity
,for you to publicize your group and
‘ interests. If you have ahy items that
. afe Suitabie for our forthooming books,
FREE STUFF FOR KIDS, FREE STUFF FOR TEENS,'
- Or.FREE STUFF FOR PARENTS, pieaSe do '

' consider submitting them to us.

Sincerely yours;

1 xﬁéiZZLg; GE»4{h&1mgS
-?iomKathe Grooms'
~Editor.

16648Méd§wbrookmne - Wdyzoia, MN 5539] V- (612) 933-5008» :

 




C

Weadowbtbolg ‘Ptéss

NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
For further information

contact: Kathe Grooms
(612) 933-5008

FREE PUBLICITY FOR YOU FROM "FREE STUFF”

If your organization has an item or message you'd Iike to get out to kids,
teens or parents, Meadowbrook Press may be abIe to heIp you. Their new
book,_FREE STUFF FOR KIDS: THE SECOND RAINBOW BOOK is a catangue of free
and up-to—a-doIIar items for kids aged 6 - 12. Four Ieading nationaI
chiIdren's book cIubs have seIected the book for mass distribution. Through
book stores it is aIready a nationaI best-seIIer with 240,000 copies in print.
In short, it's giving the suppIiers Iisted in FREE STUFF FOR KIDS a lgt_of
free exposure!

FREE STUFF is doing so weII that Meadowbrook Press is pIanning a new expanded
edition and companion titIes for teens and parents. The editors need new
items that are interesting, informative, and/or fun for the groups mentioned
above. SuppIiers must be capabIe of handIing up to 50,000 requests for
singIe items through I981 and they take fuII responsibiIity for fquiIIment.
In the event of shortages, they agree to notify peopIe requesting items that
they are out of stock, or they may send comparabIe items. To be considered

fer incIusion, send items with details of costs, mailing instructions, and
a 50-75 word description of each item to:

Kathe Grooms

Editor

Meadowbrook Press

15235 Minnetonka BouIevard

Minnetonka
MN 55343

The deadIine for submissions is November 1, 1979.

16648 Meadowbrook Lane Wayzata. Mn. 5539] (612) 933-5008

 




Consumer Organization
Publication Profile Sheet

 

*****'*******k***kk

Your cooperation in responding to the following will be greatly
appreciated.

1. Designate a contact person to whom submissions to your
publication should be directed:
Contact Name: Christine Stevens
'Publication Name: INEQRMATIDN REPORT
Organization Name: Animal Welfare Institute
Street Address: 4240. Box 3550

Washington, D.C.
City State

Telephone: 202-337-2332
Describe the nature and scope of your publication. For

instance, how is your news generated? Are items in your
publication picked up and used by other publications?

.lmhe_guarterlytpublication_reports_developments_mithin___l___

the environmental world, reports on problems within, and

meetings about animal issues, environmental issues, and

 

norasinna'l 1y annnunpes the publication of a relevant workl

 

 

 

 

3. Describe your reading audience inlcuding circulation,
reading level, demographics, etc.

 

Circulation of each issue varies between 25,900 and 301000;

covering national and international distribution; Mailing

lists‘are maintained for special audiences, ie. libraries,

teachers, humane societies, scientists, etc.

 




Page 2 ~-— Publication Profile Sheet: "Consumer Organization

4. Provide your production schedule —-- deadline for submissions,
actual publication date and frequency of publication.

~The INFORMATION REPORT is QQQl-i=$b.er§z- deadline

for submission varies—~usualky around the third week in

__the s- _ ..' ' '- . . - '...w,- .lmr - .ehs+—Publéeatic
dates also vary, the goal is the 3rd week in the 3rd. 6th,_2th,

and 12th months.

Explain or specify any special needs of your publication
(e.g. materials in languages other than English, etc.)

Up to date neﬂs'gn regn13tjgns Jams beggings pubgge

meetings, etc. affecting animals and environmental issues.

 

 

 

 

 

Indicate what format would best facilitate your needs ——-
press release, fact sheet, packet of general information,
newsletter, speeches, articles specific to your publication.
Please specify whether or not you would be interested in

accompanying photographs.

AAll of the above, including photographs.

 

 

 

 

 

 




Page 3 -—~ Publication Profile Sheet: Consumer Organization

7. Identify areas of particular interest; please check as many
as applicable.

Foods (FlO)

Drugs (49)

Cosmetics (20)

Radiation (x-rays, microwaves, etc.) (90)
Medical Devices (80)

Biologics (vaccines, blood banks, etc.) (40)
Veterinary Medicine (70)
.General Consumer Information (G1)

Ways to Access FDA

Other; Please identify

Good Laboratory Practice regulationso toxic___

substances, testing methodsﬁbgth_u§ing_§nimﬁls _
and using substitute methods, Draize test, LD50 test.

 

 

8. If possible, please forward a sample of your publication to:

Food and Drug Administration
Office of Consumer Affairs (HFE—60)
5600 Fishers Lane

Rockville, Maryland 20857

comments;;;He_appreciateuthis_sernice1_but.want—to—emphasize—————

that we are interested in animal related issues onl¥+_and_monld

appreciate receiving mail relating only to these areas.

Thank you -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
ROCKVILLE. MARYLAND 20857

Editor

Information Report
Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. B05 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear EditOr:

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has set public
participation as a major goal of our Consumer Affairs
program. In fact, President Carter has issued an
executive order (E.O. 12160) reinforcing the need to
involve consumers in the development of federal policies
and programs. Even though the Federal Government already
provides information on public participation oppor-
tunities through the Federal Register, we believe that
further efforts must be made to extend the communication
of this information — particularly to the consumer.

 

In order to accomplish this, FDA would like to establish
contact with consumers who are interested in FDA—related
issues and who are willing to voice their opinions to the
Agency. Consumer organization publications would be an
excellent vehicle for reaching these consumers and
providing them with the information they need to get
involved.

We have identified your organization as one that distri-
butes a publication for either your membership or some
type of consumer audience. Because our objective is to
develop a mechanism that will enable us to reach con—
sumers on a regular basis, we would like to learn more
about your publication and its operation. Please take
the time to complete the enclosed profile sheet and
return it to us. A postage-paid return envelope is
enclosed for your convenience.

Depending on your interests, we can provide summaries of
consumer petitions and notices of consumer representative
vacancies on advisory committees, local and national
consumer exchanges, as well as conferences and workshops
open to the public. Please see the enclosed material

 




Page 2

explaining in greater detail examples of FDA activities.
Most of the information that we prepare is intended to
alert your readers to public participation opportunities
on important health issues. It is also designed to help
them become more aware of the interests, views, and
concerns being expressed by consumers in other parts of
the country.

We look forward to working with yOu on this project,
which we feel will be of mutual benefit. In particular,
we are eager to receive the information profiling your
publication and its unique needs.

Sincerely yours,

ﬁdZ/(ﬁgé/ éé’éfq

Alexander Grant
Associate Commissioner
for Consumer Affairs

Enclosures

 




The following are examples of FDA activities that provide
for consumer involvement in the policy development
activities of the Agency:

Written comments from the public on proposed regulations.
Past topics have included patient labeling for
prescription drugs, food labeling, hearing aids, IUDs,
and oral contraceptives

 

Oral testimony by public before FDA hearings. Past _
topics have included infant formula, obstetrical use of
drugs, and gonorrhea test kits for women.

 

Reimbursement for persons presenting a consumer
perspective before FDA hearings. Reimbursement has been
given for testimony on aspartame (a sugar substitute) and
infant formula.

 

Citizen initiated petitions. Past issues have included
requests to require warning labels on coffee and tea
because of caffeine content; to revise the standard for
soda water to exclude caffeine; and to classify nitrites
in bacon as a color additive.

 

Vacancies on FDA advisory committees. Consumers are
represented on advisory committees addressing such topics
as arthritis, fertility and maternal health, blood
products, drug abuse and orthopedic devices.

 

Consumer exchange meetings sponsored by FDA. Themes have
included over-the-counter drug review, minor
tranquilizers, diagnostic x—rays, Depo-Provera

and DES.

 

Consumer education projects sponsored by FDA. Projects
include training on how the public can access FDA;
skills and communication training for consumer represen—
tatives; and education programs (including visual aids)
on such topics as medical device quackery, food faddism
and safe use of prescription drugs.

 

 




Consumer Organization
Publication Profile Sheet

 

 

*k*******k********

Your cooperation in responding to the following will be greatly
appreciated.

1.

3.

Designate a contact person to whom submissions to your
publication should be directed:

Contact Name: Christine Stevens

Publication Name: INFORMATION REPQRT

Organization Name: Animal Welfare Institute

 

Street Address: ggjo, Box 3650

Washington, D.C.
City State

Telephone: 202-337—2332

Describe the nature and scope of your publication. For
instance, how is your news generated? Are items in your

publication picked up and used by other publications?

._Ihe.guarterlyﬂpuhlication_reportscdeyelopments_mithin___~___

the environmental world, reports on problems within, and

 

 

meetings about animal issues! environmental issues, and

 

.nnpasinnally announces the publication of a relevant unrki__

 

 

 

 

Describe your reading audience inlcuding circulation,
reading level, demographics, etc.

 

Circulation of each issue varies between 25,000 and 30,000L_

covering national and international distribution; Mailing

 

lists‘are maintained for special audiences, ie. libraries,

teachers, humane societies, scientists, etc.

 




Page 7 »»~ Publication Profile Sheet: 'Consumer Organization

‘4

4. Provide your production schedule --— deadline for submissions,
actual publication date and frequency of publication.

The lﬁFORMATION RE?ORT is Dublished quarterly; deadline
for submission varies-~usually around the third week in

the_§§§Qnd_meak_in_the_2nd+5th+8thTand_llth-mssshs+—Pablieaei0L

dates also vary, the goal is the 3rd week in the 3rd, 6th. 9th,

and 12th monthsl

Explain or specify any special needs of your publication
(e.g. materials in languages other than English, etc.)

_JQ2.EQ_dQLgangm5_Qn_IagnlatinnsT_laws7—heasingST—9sblie——————

meetings, etc. affecting animals and environmental issues.

 

 

 

 

 

Indicate what format would best facilitate your needs ———
press release, fact sheet, packet of general information,
newsletter, speeches, articles specific to your publication.
Please specify whether or not you would be interested in

accompanying photographs.

All of the above, including photographs.

 

 

 

 

 

 




n.

Page a m-— Publication Profile Sheet: Consumer Organization

7. Identify areas of particular interest; please check as many
as applicable.

Foods (F10)

Drugs (49)

Cosmetics (20)

Radiation (x-rays, microwaves, etc.) (90)
Medical Devices (80)

Biologics (vaccines, blood banks, etc.) (40)
Veterinary Medicine (70)

General Consumer Information (Gl)

Ways to Access FDA

Other; Please identify

Good Laboratory_Practice regulations. toxic._.
substances, testing methods both using animals

and using substitute methods, Draize test, LD50 test”

 

8. If possible, please forward a sample of your publication to:

Food and Drug Administration
Office of Consumer Affairs (MFR—60)
5600 Fishers Lane

Rockville, Maryland 20857

commentsz‘_lijq4u£mﬁaieuthis_seruice1_but_want_to_emphasise—————

that we are interested in animal related issues onlyl and would

appreciate receiving mail relating only to these areas.

Thank vnu l
‘7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




§
0
o‘
5
37
a;

VENTURA ASSOCIATES, INC.

Dear Public Relations Director:

Ventura Associates, Inc. is publishing a book entitled
"FREE THINGS FOR KIDS". We would like to offer any items
for children that you have.

Please fill in the enclosed sheets for each item and
return them to us with a sample. If you have more items

than we have provided information sheets for, please xerox
the enclosed sheets.

Thank you for your time and assistance with this book.
If you have any questions, please feel free to give me a call.

Very truly yours,

AWaSo/u/

Laura B. Sobel

LBS/lmj
Enclosure

* ”11.111111; (mg-1041b"
P.S. We'd especially like to offer the ‘

plus any other items you might have.

/
//

/

200 MADISON AVENUE NEW YORK, NEW YORK 1001 6 212-889-0707

 




"FREE THINGS FOR KIDS"
INFORMATION SHEET
/
YOUR COMPANY OR ORGANIZATION: £40.?
(Sour)
ITEM: ‘wa’é; (IQ-VD. GK/r/ W'QZAM (cw-f Mfg
V .

DESCRIPTION (IF SAMPLE NOT ENCLOSED):

 

 

 

POSTAGE & HANDLING CHARGE (IF ANY): E+6+P+W’

AMf-Lbf/ux/

REQUESTS TO: /’60Z
E 0 ﬂex 36 5’0
[Ma/)6 DC 20570?

 

PERMISSION GRANTED BY:
NAME:

 

TITLE:

 

 

 




The Institutions Press, Inc. 440 Park Avenue South, New York, NY. 10016 212/532-0367
December 26, 1979

Dear Ms. Stevens:

The attached is a xerox of your typeset listing for the tri—state
Guide to Gifts and Bequests. Any smudges, spots, faded letters, etc.
were caused by the copier and are not on the original reproduction

proof—~which is sharp and even.

Please mark any typographical errors that we may have missed (only
typesetter's errors——no textual revisions, please). Then initial
and return to us immediately. -

 

 

Enclosed is an invoice which conforms to the terms of your contract.

If you have any questions, please telephone us. (Postal service is
quite irregular and we are now committed to a tight schedule with

our printer.)

Sincerely yours,

' /

‘ ML—

Datg 1/1/1620 JnlﬁabiL Linda Kaplan

Editor

APPROVED AS comma 75/ -~ /

//

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE -

P.0. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007 (202) 33 7-2332; Christine Stevens, pres. A non-
proﬁt, charitable, educational organization founded in 1951 to reduce the pain and
fear inflicted on animals by man. Publishes major animal welfare books and manuals
including Animals and Their Legal Rights (215 pp), Humane Biology Projects (57 pp),
Facts About Furs (106 pp) and provides these and other publications free on request to
libraries. teachers, humane societies, veterinarians and others for use in protecting
animals. Conducts educational campaigns to prevent extinction of whales and other
endangered species; works for a ban on painful trapping devices and for an end to
abuses in the treatment of laboratory animals and animals raised on factory farms.
Operates with a low overhead. Financial needs: contributions, bequests and memorial

funds to expand programs.

 




UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
WASHINGTON, DC. 20460

JuIy 5, 1978

TO: REGISTERED UNITED STATES SOURCES IN THE .
UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM'S INTERNATIONAL REFERRAL SYSTEM

We are preparing the Third Edition of the United States Directory of
EnvironmentaI Sources. Part of this preparation is the verification
and updating of information we currentIy have in the system concerning
your organization. PIease review the encIosed printout and return it
by September I, I978._ A franked, seIf—addressed enveIope is enclosed
for your convenience.

You may indicate on the printout sheet those changes that need to be
made. If no changes are required, pIease mark ”OK" in the upper right
hand corner of the printout.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerer yours,

CharIene S. Sayers
Source Coordinator
U.S. International EnvironmentaI ReferraI Center

EncIosures

 




November 1979

Dear New FREE STUFF suppTier:

I hope you're as happy to get this package as I am to send it to you. You're
honing the new FREE STUFF FOR KIDS book and it you turn to page‘thyou'TT see your'
item(s) described.

I hope the copy and tne iTTustration pTease you, and I certainiy trust that
I've accurateTy transcribed your directions to our readers. IF you shoqu have
any suggestions about changes, piease don't hesitate to bring them to my attention.
We'TI be abTe to make aTterations when we print the book again and, given the
success of the book so Far, that shoqun't be too Far in the Future.

I'd Tike to thank you again for your wiITingness to participate in the book.
We wouIdn't have seTected your item or items it we hadn't thought they were Fun,
informative, and reasonabie priced, and we're giad you were interested in being
incTuded.

You probabTy won't start getting requests yet; aIthough about 75,000 of this
new edition have just been printed, they won't start appearing in bookstores untiI
the current edition (without your items) seTTs out. When requests do come in.
you'TT be abTe to teTI within about a month's time, what kind oF response you'TI
be getting. And those of you who have coded your addresses wiii, of course, know
exactIy how many responses our book has generated (others may wish to code their
addresses in future editions). IF you shouid run into any troubTe meeting the
demand, don't hesitate to get in touch with me.

Let me aTso reiterate that I hope your presence in the book benefits your
company or organization. We think we've put together an edition of FREE STUFF
that is even better than the Iast edition, Targeiy because of the presence of your
item or items.

Cordiaiiy,
"TFE}»n. réfj’5699€:¥L_

Tom Grady
FREE STUFF editor

P.S. Coqu I ask you to send me another sampTe of each of your items? We'd Tike
to have them on hand for promotionaI purposes.

P.P.S. Let me aIso remind you that we're preparing FREE STUFF books For COOKS.
TEENS, PARENTS, and HOMEONNERS AND OARDENERS. If you have any items you'd
like to submit for these books, pIease send them on to me.

16648 Moadowbrook Lane Woyzoto, Mn. 55391 (612) 933-5006

 




 

pet packet

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals was founded in 1866 to encourage people
to treat animals humanely. You can send for a whole
packet of stuff from the ASPCA, including book-
marks, an 8-page coloring book, and three informa-
tion sheets about dogs.

directions: Use a postcard.
ask for: Animal Care - Free Stuff

write to: Animal Care - Free Stuff
ASPCA, Education Dept.
441 East 92nd St.
New York, NY 10028

I

on ikids’ best friends

.“ ; __,-v f ' . -
_\. \EE‘EQVL Your cat and dog are sometimes your best friends,
\. \\ \ “ / right? Learn how to treat them better by sending away
\ x \ for these two booklets that have pictures you can col-

\\\:‘\ or.

x —\\\ ‘1 \‘ ,, directions: Use paper and an envelope. You

“ ‘ ' ’ must enclose 20¢ for each booklet
that you order.

ask for: Kittens and Cats
You and Your Dog

write to: Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. BOX 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

 

 

 




Established
1934

‘ 414-326-3126
K, .

EDUCATORS INDEX OF
FREE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
FILMS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
FILMSTRIPS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
AUDIO AND VIDEO
MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GRADE GUIDE
TO FREE TEACHING AIDS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
SCIENCE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
SOCIAL STUDIES
MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
GUIDANCE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION
AND RECREATION MATERIALS

 

ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE
TO FREE CURRICULUM

MATERIALS

7

Patricia H. Suttles
Publisher

Ehmzdnrﬁ agrUBI'BﬁE ﬁBl’hItB, 7113. Reply to:

Patricia Horkheimer Suttles
285 Park Drive .
Randolph, Wisconsin 53956

214 Center Street
Randolph, Wisconsin 53956

January 8, 1980

Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. '20007

Gentlemen:

The ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS
is a bound book containing listings of booklets, pamphlets,
maps, charts, posters, books, exhibits, which various firms and
agencies are willing to furnish schools and libraries without
charge.

This ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS
covers the elementary level only, but it does include a section
on "Teacher Reference and Professional Growth Materials."

We are now preparing a new annual edition of this service
to include new materials and to delete listings of items no
longer available. We would appreciate your sending us, for
listing in the publication, any free materials you issue which
you think would enrich school and library materials services.

No charge or obligation is placed on the issuing agency
other than furnishing with reasonable promptness, the materials
requested during the next school year. Your wishes relative to
any limitations or instructions will be included in the listing.
The issuing agencies retain control of the distribution of the
materials. 1

We are enclosing a listing sheet which we would appreciate
your filling out and returning to us as soon as possible.

Thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely yours,

ileum... \A. 1m.»

Patricia Horkheimer Suttles
Editor
Enc.

P.S. .
When replying, please reply to me at my home address:
285 Park Drive, Randolph, Wisconsin 53956.

 




__ v
FONDS FUR UMWELTSTUDJEN \

FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
FONDS POUR L'ETUDE DE L’ENVIRONNEMENT

6'9

FUST - ADENAUERALLEE 214 - 0-5300 BONN BONN.
Tel. 49 (2 28) 213453

Animal Welfare Institute Date of postmarks
P.D. Box 3650

‘Washingtoni o.c. 20007

USA 8

Dear Madam or Sir.

We and the Sierra Club are in the process of compiling the
new "Environmental Directory: A Guide to International and
National Governmental and Non~governmental Agencies and Dr~
ganizations". in collaboration with the International Coun~
cil of Environmental Law (ICEL), the International Union for
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN)i and the
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The Directory
will be a followeup to the World Directory of Environmental
Organizations.

We would like to include the latest information about your
activities in the Directory and so would aporeciate it if
you would please correct and complete the information on
the form below, checking the criteria codes on the reverse
side. The data to be included in the Directory will then he
sent to you prior to publication.

Should you have additional information on other environmen-
tal agencieS/orqanizations that you feel should be included
in the Directory. we would appreciate receiving it along
with the form below within the next six weeks.

Thank you for your kind assistance.

Sincerely.

“V“

‘4';

(Wolfgang E. Burnenne)

 




COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES

VIRGINIA POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE AND STATE UNIVERSITY

Blackiburg, Virginia 24061
DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY AND RELIGION 8 April 1980

Ms. Sheryl Sternenberg
Publications Secretary
Animal Welfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007
Dear Ms. Sternenberg:

Thank you for the information on the
Animal Welfare Institute. It will appear in the
June number (Volume I, Number 2) of ETHICS AND
ANIMALS.

Sincerely,

My /2UQJI
Harlan B. Miller

Society for the Study
of Ethics and Animals

 




April 3. 1980

Harlan Miller, SSEA
Department of Philosophy and Religion
. VPI & SU

Blacksburg, VA 24061

Dear Mr. Miller,

, Thank you for requesting information about the Animal Welfare
‘ Institute for your publication ETHICS AND ANIMALs. Ehoynopsis

of the goals and programs of the AWI follows.

The Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) is a non~profit, charitable,
educational organization founded in 1951 to reduce the pain and
fear inflicted on animals by man. Publishes quarterly Information
Report. and major animal welfare books ané manuals incluoing
Animals and Their Legal Rights (215 PP). Humane Biology Projects,
"T57"§§7:"Facts About Furs (272 pp): probiﬁeé these and other
publications free on request to hmarariesn teachers, humane societies,
veterinarians and others for use in protecting animals. Conducts
educational campaigns to prevent extinCtion of whales and other
endangered species: works for a ban on painful frapping devices and

for an end to abuses in the treatment of laboratory animals ano animals
raised on factory farms. Operates with a low overheao. Financial
needs: contributions, bequests and memorial funds to expano publication
program and campaigns for animal protection.

 

 

Attached is a copy of the most recent "Information Report! for your
information.

Sincerely,

Sheryl Sternenberg

 




SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF ETHICS AJO ANIMALS
c/o Department of Philosophy and Religion
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Blacksburg, Virginia 24061

28 February 1980

Animal Welfare Institute
P. 0. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

ETHECS AND ANIMALS, tne quarterly bulletin of the Society for
the Study of Ethics and Animals, is scheduled to begin publication
in March, 1930. One of the features of this journal will be a
continuing directory of organizations and periodicals concerned
with questions about human treatment of non-human animals. You
are invited to submit a brief description of your group or
periodical on the form below. Please return the form at your
earliest convenience.

Thank you,

WWW

Harlan B. Miller
Executive Secretary, SSEA

z%**:\‘%::irit********************************************************************3§:”‘a 517?; ~'

Name of group/kamxpememi Animal Welfare Institute

Description (be sure to include address and subscription/membership
costs). (Please be brief—«maximum length 200 words.)

 

*Uﬁieprofit, charitable, educational organization founded in
1951 to reduce the pain and fear inflicted on animals by man.

‘
I‘I

 

Publishes major animal welfare books and manuals including Animals

and Egei; pagal Rights(215 pp), Humane Biology Projects (Sprp),
_FHPfS About Furs (106 pp) provides these and other publications free
ran request to libraries, teachers, humane societies, veterinarians

and others for use in protecting animals. Conducts educational

campaigns to prevent extinction of whales and other endangereo spec1es;
works for a ban on painful trapping devices and for an end to abuses

 

in the treatment of laboratory animals and animals raised on factory

ML...-

.ﬁarme- Operates with a low overhead. Financial neeﬁs: contributions,
inequests and memorial funds to expand publication program and
campaignsufor animal protection.

“teatinae an the back if needed, but no more than 200 words total.

Return to Harlan Miller, SSEA

Department of Philosophy and Religion
VPI & SU

Blacksburg, VA 24061

 




_ 4

VIR (JINIA'S I..AN[)'(3RAN"I” UNIVERSI'IY

VIRGINIA POLYTECHNIC INST I'I‘UTE AND STATE UNIVERSITY

Bz’.,a‘l2.r/mrg, Virginia 24061

DEPARTMENT OF PINLOSQPHY AND mauumN 7 May 1980

Publications Secretary
Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Ms. Sheryl Sternenberg A <:>

Dear Ms. Sternenberg: C)

Thank you for your directory entry for Ethics and Animals. It

 

is scheduled for publication in the June, l980, issue of §§A,
Membership in the Society for the Study of Ethics and Animals
is limited to individuals, but organizations and/or libraries may
subscribe to_§§A at the calendar year rate of $4.00 ($6.00, if Air
Mail delivery is desired). I have enclosed a Society information
flyer with membership form (which may also be used to subscribe to

Ethics and Animals). Any further inquiries may be addressed to the

 

Society for the Study of Ethics and Animals, c/o Department of Philosophy
and Religion, VPl & SU, Blacksburg, Virginia, 24061.
Sincerely yours, .

WW

Jeanne Keister
Managing Editor, Ethics and Animals

 

:jk
Enclosure

 




THE Sacra?v gaa THE Sruav GF
ETHECS AME ANIMALS

The Society far the Study a? Eﬁhims and Animals has been eatabliaheé to pravide
for the exchange af lnfmrmatlmn and t0 provida arena$ for discuggion and debate
between thoae interegted in athical unStimna conaevnlng human treatment of nonw
human animala. The $Ociety will mat take aides, and i3 cammitted only to open
discussion.

MEETINGQ; The Smciety hag &t lﬁaat mag meeting each year, in conjunction with
the annual convention 0f ﬁha H alarm ﬁlvlslan mf the American Philosophical
Asswciation in late hasambarl Papeva my a panel ﬁlscussiom an a topic of inter~
eat to the Soaiety will ba presentgd,

If there is sufficiant lmtereg *zre might ha additional meetings of the Society
at athev timeg and placegl

PUBLlCATION: The Smclety publiahes Bthieg ana ﬁnimala four timea a.year (in
March, June, Sﬁptembar, and Becambgwil

 

The contents of Ethlas‘anﬁ Animals lmcluda news 0f meetings, aonferences, court
cagea, other organizatloma5 and anything alga that might be of interest. A
section i3 devoteé ta taachimg about ethlma and animalag incluﬂing summaries
of caurae syllabi and daacriptlmns 3f pragramg at any level fram preuschool
thrwugh graduate and prefasalwnal SﬂhGQlS.

 

The largest gection 0f Ethic? ,gv ﬁnimals l9 devated t0 reviews. Both books
and articlea are vaviewed“ ﬁt least tag briaf PEViEWS will be published of
each argumentative philoaaphical bmmkmgg article, and authmra will be invited
to submit brief rejoin$evag Only ﬂme waview will uaually be published of
scientific or uther factual items ﬂawered becauge 0f thﬁiﬂ valevance to ethical
questions.

 

MEMBERSHIP: Membersnlp dues f0? 1930 &ra $2.00, which include a subscription
to Ethics and Auimala. Librarlag and inatitutions are not eligible for member“
ship, but may Subacribe to Eﬁhlgs‘gad Animalg far $M.OO‘ Membapa outaide of
North America who wimh t0 recaive Ethlca and Animalg by air mail shculd add
$2.00. Only membera 0f the Society may submit reviawg and other itams, and
only they will be cangidarad fer meeting pragramae

 

 

 

ﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁkﬁﬁﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁ$ﬂﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ$ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁwﬁﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬂﬁ

mwmwlﬂﬁasecammllrmaas'arwmmerzﬁ?lhe SGCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF ETHICS
AND ANIMALS" My cheatk for? $3233.00 ($314.00 for Qvemsseaa: Air Mail) is enclosem

.1

Pleaga maka chaﬁkg payable t6 PZQQAQ ngmit membenbhip

SSEA and AM 60.03
in US ﬂundb\

NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY: w u N S?ATE§‘ ZIP

 

 

 

(continued on reverse) +

 




41‘? 5
,.Lc-?§ (-

mg
u H).
“Ti,
mi
1 ...
.11..
at:
«.2
24...}

.4
Wiﬂﬁ

- “x.
-’ \
., w

”.4” z .

e ,
k‘ ,...
‘q a.” a .

tiff

'5 '1 Ei}ffi.é<1%3€7“

uh

I want t .i:

 




 

I» .

:5 .“
en‘
0.
‘1
W.
N“
., m4"
5‘, t
k

HPD Communications ”Mi;¢5”ggw
196— 15A 65th Crescent & .@9“ g}?
Fresh Meadows, New York 11365 b* ”gpﬁt’-

Society for Animal My ﬂ%ﬁs
Protective Legislation Cﬂﬁéwi’

P o O . BOX 3719 {h}. n {12,ch

Washington, D.C. 4*

To Those Concerned:

We are a new publisher currently doing research on
the organizations specializing in animal and pet
services. Our publication will deal with pets, their
care, and the relationship between healthy and happy
pets and their owners.

We would appreciate your sending us some general
literature about your organization —— its activities,
purposes, goals —— and also putting us on your mailing
list so we may receive future releases, mailings,

etc.

In return, we will be glad to put you on our
complementary subscription list.

Thank you and we look forward to receiving information
from you soon.

Sincerely,

HPD Communications

11,
1.!

I‘-
x’A‘r' ' ‘ f '7’" .' *x‘a .«sx
ijigf/ p?“ if!“ 11;”? ‘. " #1)"? f {W’L‘JV’ H

Sandra Beckerman
President

SJB/wtf

 




Sane 8, 1978

Mr. Brad weigle
meaa/Dolphin qunﬁatiam
?. 0. Box 41??

Malibu, Califarnia 98265

Daar MI. weigle:

Please fargive our ﬂelay in responding ta yaur letter of May g,
In response ta your request fer a synepaig cf our g0ala/dbjactivaa

The Animal Welfare Instituta was faumﬁaﬁ in 19§1 t0
reduce the feax amﬁ pain inflicted an animals by

man. its imitial interest in whaleﬁ was thraugh
support 0f effarte @f ﬁhe Universities Féﬂeratien

for Amimal Welfare ta stop the use 9f tha agenizingly
paimful explesive harpmon, Ag whaling naﬁiana awn»
tinueﬂ t0 drive whalaa taward extinction anﬁ cantimuaﬁ
ta use the game cruel methaés, AWE amught t9 enﬁ
cammercial whaling and caarﬁinatas the bgycmtt 9f
Japanese and Russian gagda with the aim 0f eatabliaha
ing a ten~year moratmrium.

Thank you for including mg in Dr. Lilly'a valume.

ginceraly,

(Mrs.) Lynne C. Hutdhison
Whale Campaign Cgardinator

 




May 8, 1978

Dear Friend of Cetacea:

Thank you for your recent response to our address inquiry for
the Friends of Cetacea list compiled by the Human/Dolphin Foundation.
Enclosed is the current update of that list.

Dr. Lilly plans to include the Friends of Cetacea in his book
about whales and dolphins to be published in late 1978. To accurately
represent your organization, we would like you to prepare a two to four
sentence synopsis of your goals/objective for inclusion in this volume.

Statements must reach us by June 1 to meet publishing deadlines.

If you know of any additional groups which should be included
on the list, your assistance in informing us would be appreciated.

Thanks again for all your help.

Sincerely,

@JWZZ

Brad Neig le .
HUMAN/DOLPHIN FOUNDATION

' PO. Box 4172/Ma1ibu, Calif. 90265

 




 

AMERICAN’CEENCEAN SOCIETY
National HBadquarters
PoO. Box #916

San Pedro, Ca. 90731
213/598-6279

AMERICAN CETACEAN SOCIETY
Los Angeles Chapter

P.O. Box 2698

San Pedro, Ca. 90731
213/598—6279

AMERICAN CEIACEAN SOCIETY
Marin Chapter

P.0. Box 2536

San Rafael, Ca. 99901

AMERICAN CEEACEAN SOCIETY
Maui Chapter

P.O. Box 996

Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii 96761

AMERICAN CETACEAN SOCIETY
Orange County Chapter
P.O. Box 18763

Irvine, Ca. 92713

AMERICAN CETACEAN SOCIETY
Puget Sound Chapter

P.O. Box 1384

Bellevue, we. 98005

AMERICAN CETACEAN SOCIETY
San Diego Chaptem'

P.0. _ Box 22305

San Diego, Ca. 92122

AMERICAN CETACEAN SOCIETY VOYAGERS
1093 East Green Street
Pasadena, Ca. 91106

ANIMAL PROTECTION INST. USA
Belton P. Ntnnxns

P.O. Box 22505 ‘
Sacramento, Ca. 95822

ANIMAL WELEARE INSTITUTE
Christine Stevens

P.O. Box 3650
Washington, 0.0. 20007

CENTER FOR.OCEAN STUDIES
Gardner"s Basin

Atlantic City, N.J. 08001
609/348-5252

CETACEAN RELATIONS
Zantar Buru

P.O. Box 958 Paia
Maui, Hawaii 96779

CONNECTICUT CETACEAN SOCIETY
P.O. Box 1H5
Nethersfield, Ct. 06109

COUSTEAU SOCIETY INC.
9 Bay Street
wastport, Connecticut 06880

COUSTEAU SOCIETY INC.
8150 Beverly Blvd.

Los Angeles, Ca. 90048
213/655-u601

THE DOLPHIN EMBASSY

P.O. BOX 77082

San Francisco, Ca. 99107
915/788-192u

 




THE DOLPHIN EMBASSY

P.0. Box 59, Potts Point 2011
Sydney, Australia

(02) 357-1636

DOLPHIN PROJECT JAPAN

50 Mint Street

San Rancisco, Ca. 9‘4103
L115/771-3066

ENDANGERED SPECIES PRODUCTIONS, INC.
Phoebe Wrey

175 West Main Street

Ayer, Ma. 01M32

617/772-0016

FRIENDS OF TIE EARTH
Tom Garrett

620 C Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20003

FRIENDS OF THE EARTH
529 Comercial Street
San Francisco, Ca. 99111

FUND FOR ANIMALS

Cleveland Amory 8 Christine Clark
1112 N. Sherbourne Drive

los Angeles, Ca. 90069
213/659-9577

GENERAL WHALE

Larry Foster

9616 MacArthur Blvd.
Oakland, Ca. 9’4605

GREENPEACB FOUNDATION
240 Fort Mason
San Francisco, Ca. 9H123

GREENPEACE FOUNDATION
13719 Ventura Blvd.
Sherman Oaks, Ca. 91003
213/986-2315

W FOUNDATION
2007 W. ltth Avenue
Vancouver, B.C. CANADA

GREENPEACB FOUNDATION
no» Piikoi
Honolulu, Hawaii 9681a

HOBBS-SEA WORLD RESEARCH mSI‘ITU'I'E
1700 S. Shores Road

San Diego, Ca. 92109

71u/223-2693

FEW/BOLERO! FOUNDATION
John C. Lilly, M.D.

P.0. Box l+172

Malibu, Ca. 90265

mm SOCIETY or THE UNITED STATES
Patricia Forkan

2100 L Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20037
202/052-1100

HUMANB SOCIETY OF THE UNITE) STATES
West Coast Regional Office

1713 J Street

Sacramento, Ca. 9581“

JOJOBA PROTECT
P.O. Box 27149
'Iucsm, Az. 87502

MARINE MAWAL COPMISSION
1625 Eye St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20005

MONITOR

1522 Connecticut Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036
202/239-6576

 




NATIONAL OCEANIC 8 A'DDSPl-IERIC AGENCY
Dr. Robert White , Administrator
Administration

Department of Oonnerce

Washington, D.C. 20230

ms OCEANIC 3013er
Mid Atlantic Region
P.O. BOX 13357
H‘xiladelphia, Pa. 19101
215/WA5-ssuu

THE OCEANIC SOCIETY
111 ProsPect Street
Stamford, Ct. 06901
203/327-0908

OREGONIANS CO-OPERATING TO
PROTECT WHALES 8 DOLE-ENS
873 Willamette Street
Eugene, Oregon 97401
503/085-5114”,

PROJECI' JONAH
Joan McIntyre
Lanai, Hawaii 96763

PROJECT JONAH NEW ZEALAND INC.
P.O. Box lt2-071 Orakei
Auckland 5, New Zealand

SAVE THE DOLPHENS

Stan lﬁnasian

1905 20th Avenue

San Francisco, Ca. 90116

SAVE THE WHALES

Maris Sidenstecker
P.O. Box 1196011

Los Angeles, Ca. 900119

SIERRA CLUB

Bob Hughes, Chainnan
Box 21171

Trenton, N.J. 08607

MJALE CENTER (mRLD EMANITARIAN
ASSOCIATION FOR THE LIVING
ENVIROWI‘) Danny Hirsch

173 Avocado Street

Leucadia, Ca. 92020

WHAIJE'. CENTER

3929 Piedmont Avenue

Oakland, Ca. 90611

015/659-0892

rem McCloskey, Exec. Director

WHAIE ISSUE 00mm:

JACL National H.Q.'s Building
Clifford I. Uyeda, M.D., Claim
1765 Sutter Street

San Francisco, Ca. 90115

WHALE PROTECTION PUND/ Center for
vaircmental Education

2100 M Street, N.w.

Wasl'ﬁngton,.D.C. 20037
202/466-‘4996

W

3720 Stephen White Drive
San Pedro, Ca. 90731
313/ 832441941;

mRLD SEA LIFE

13.0. Box uzes

Valley Village Station
North Hollywood, Ca. 91507

Ocean Contact

Peter Beamish

Box 1111

Bedford, Nova Scotia BON lBO
CANADA

Compiled by the
EMMAN/DOLHEN POUNDATION
March 1978

 




1400 West Cornwallis Dr.
Greensboro, NC 27408
9March 1980

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, D.C.

20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

The North Carolina Humane Federation, Inc., is
preparing to publish a second edition of its
Humane Handbook of North Carolina and would like
to have 200 copies of your publications lists” .1111
"“Educational Materials Available from the Animal
Welfare Institute," to include in the next issue.
The first issue of the Handbook was purchased by
animal welfare organizations, animal control
agencies, public officials. and individuals
throughout North Carolina and, to some extent,
other states as well. The Handbook is intended
to increase the exchange of information among
animal welfare and related organizations.

Our budget for this project is very limited, and
if you can provide 200 copies of your publications
list at no charge we would be very grateful.

If you are obliged to charge for such a quantity,
please notify me before you send them so I can

get the approval of the other members of our
Education Committe responsible for this project.

Thank you for your assistance.
Very truly yours,

0? ”it/ma ﬁlm at:

(Mrs.) Anna Fesmire
NCHF Education Committee Chairman

 




.
5""

 

y, 7,; k

_‘ ASSOCIATIONS AND SOCIETIES
THE WORLD ALMANAC QUESTIONNAIRE

t '- Information for the next edition.

 

 

ﬂ

IMPORTANT} - To insure proper listing, please return at earliest convenience to:

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘3 X The World Almabac, Associations and Societies, 200 Park Ave., New York, NY 10017

\...a

 

 

 

Q
Date Established: ....... 1. 1.5.1 ......................

36502 Washington, D.C. 20007

( street address, town, state and ZIP code)

Total Membership (living): .W . .6! ............

' I

Name of President or Governing Official:

Name and Address of National Secretary: . . Majtlrie . Cooke .......
. ' Crossways, Ocean Drive
’ New Port, Rhode Island 02871

Please indicate aims. Is membership open or restricted to profession, birth, or
other criteria?

Membership Open L
. 1 EIMQW£§*:%E
Aims: See Attached 4 5

MAR J 4 7980

1
x 4/

¢
M
7' 3* M 1"

Furnished 12%;.» '. .4 . .’ ...... .




JV

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

The Animal Welfare Institute was founded in 1951 by a group of
persons interested in the promotion of humane treatment of
animals, and incorporated as a non-profit organization under
the laws of Delaware. Its interests and membership are nation-
wide. Its purpose is to promote the welfare of all animals and
to reduce the total of pain and fear inflicted on animals by
man.

While the Institute is interested in every phase of animal wel-
fare, a major concern is humane safeguards in the use of animals
for research and medicine. On the problem of laboratory animals,
the Institute has the following aims:

Care: -The establishment of a code for the handling and use
of all species of laboratory animals and the full enforcement
of existing laws on this subject.

Research and Testing: The encouragement of medical research
of the highest possible quality, as opposed to mere quantity,
and the development and use of non-animal methods wherever
possible.

Other major aims of the Institute are:

oThe preservation of Species threatened by extinction.
°Prevention of cruel experiments on animals by untrained
youths.

'Reform of cruel methods of raising food animals in
"factory farms."

°Reform of cruel methods of trapping wild animals.

To achieve its goals, the Institute:

(1) studies the current practices governing the handling

 




ii

I

1

and use of laboratory animals: numbers, types of animals
and sources: Federal, State and local legislation involving
treatment of animals or their procurement: and methods
whereby animal suffering may be minimized and numerical
requirements reduced:

(2) studies current methods used in commercial exploitation
of animals, including trapping for fur, intensive livestock
husbandry, tuna fishing, the pet trade and other animal
dealer activities including international smuggling of live
animals, ivory, and other wildlife products-~in order to
institute reforms;

(3) publishes and distributes quarterly Information Reports
to members, public libraries, Deans of Medical and Veterinary
Medical Schools, humane societies, and thousands of veteri-
narians, teachers, scientists and administrators who ask to
receive them;

(4) distributes free and inexpensive materials on the sub-
ject of animal welfare to research institutions, public
libraries, humane societies, teachers and individuals
interested in animal welfare;

(5) publishes books and manuals on different phases of animal
welfare, some free to members of special groups who can put
them directly to use helping animals, to others at cost;

(6) provides representation, speeches and exhibits at impor—
tant meetings and conventions;

(7) awards the Schweitzer Medal and $1,000 each year for
outstanding achievement in the advancement of animal welfare.

The Institute supports the good work done by other organizations
and strives for professional and public acceptance of the best in
animal welfare.

Attached is a listing of educational materials available from AWI
and a leaflet describing the work of a sister organization which

is devoted to obtaining legislation, the Society for Animal Protec-
tive Legislation.

 




THE
WORLD

Q . . A, ‘3‘ ." "-MJ :
® ‘ ‘1‘? gymw -.__ J
ALMANAC . NWT!
:1: ' “

200 PARK AVENUE
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017

13 a? Nelfare Institute
x.{ Nox 3550
8 www xOﬂ DC 2000?

 




UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
WASHINGTON. Dc, 20460

January 15:”1920‘

Dear Colleague:

we would like to invite your organization to register as a source of
aenvironmental information in the International Referral System of the
United Nations Environment Program (INFOTERRA).

.As you can see from the enclosed materials, this system covers a broad
range of environmental topics and is designed to facilitate the transfer
and use of this resource on a global as well as a national basis. For
additional information you may want to see a recent article in the

New Scientist, November 1,1979 issue (pages 362- 364) by Dr. Jeremy Cherfas
entitled.”Making the Environmental Net WOrk”.

 

In order for your organization to be included in the Fourth.Edition of the
U. S. Directory of Environmental Sources to be publis. ./ '

'we must have a completed registration form from YQQIFIV

Sample pages from the Third Edition of the Directory

your information.

Should you need additional information on the program or assistance with
the form, please contact our Source Coordinator, .Mrs. Charlene Sayers—-
(202) 755—1836.

we look forward to a favorable response.
Sincerely yours,

(:aea/obdg ’49. 62><ZL¢LCZV*“ ‘W

Carol G. Alexander

Director

U.S. International Environmental Referral Center (PM-213)
(U.S. National Focal Point for UNEP/INFOTERRA)

Enclosures

 




UNITED STATES NATIONAL FOCAL POINT FOR THE
UNITED NATIONS ENVIm/IENT PHI-IRAN INTERNATIONAL REFERRAII- SYSTEM

SOURCE REGISTRATION FOHVI

Name of person completing this form:

SE ONLY:
/ 'FFFICE U Linda Tyrrell
D‘ lNLm'bf‘r‘ ‘ I I I Organization:

CQ Date: 1 I I Animal Welfare Institute

[reaIr/lblbrlith/lDaly I _ Telephone: 202-337-2332

I.NAMES AND ADDRESSES

Name and Address of Information Source to Which Users and International Inquiries
Should be Referred.
Responsible Officer:
IC hIrIiIsItIi InIeI ISItIerIe InIsI I I I II I I I I I I I I I I

Name of Or anization:
Welfare Instit s:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Street Address:
P O - B o X 3 5 O

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City: Zip Code:

MIaIIsHihEItbd J I I II IIITIIEIIICI. III II III I I I I (II FZIQ®0I7W

ephone (precede With area

may:
I:OI1:IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII1I1IIIIIIIIIIIIIeIIIIIIJ
el-ex

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllI IILIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Name and Address of Parent Organization (where applicable).

 

 

 

 

Name of Organization:
I
I
Street Address:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City. State: I Zip Code:

ICOIYIIIIIIIIITIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII
Telephone (precede t? aIre ode)
II

LElmIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
I

1
ICIIIIIIIII
IFIIIIIIII

Cable:
IeIlIIIIIIIIIIIII I I I IIIJIIIIII
II. DESCRIPTION OF INFORMATION SOURCE
Please describe, in the language of this form, the general field of activity and
information capabilities of the information source. (392 characters only) . I

See Attached

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EPA HQ FORM 2100-3 (REV.12-79) PREVIOUS EDITION IS OBSOLETE PAGE ‘ 0F 3

 




III.CODED CRGANIZATIONAL A'ITRIBU'IES OF INFORMATION SOURCE (Please check appropriate boxes.)
ITLH Sponsorship (Maxirmm of 5 Boxes) ' , . “w__
210:) United Nations 320 CjPolitical 38OCIJqucational '
220:3 Intergovernmental 330 - ndustrial/Comnercial 310C3Religous/Philosophic
230E3Governmental #vate (Not for Profit) ' 800:1Mixed control/Funding
240DNon—Governmental 370 —Professional (as specified)

[311 Cammnity (Maximum of 3 Boxes) A

 

 

 

 

llOCZBlobal Wional 150C:]Iocal/Municipal
1201:1Reqional (international) 170C3Regional within a country
@Activities (Maximum of 10 Boxes)

IlO[:IPolicy Formulation 310L_JSupport & Program Budgeting 450 islation & Regulation
lZOl:IManaganent 330l:lTechnical Assist & Training 46wcation

13! F'Tlanning 340[:k2apital Development 470E:]Transfer of Technology

 

 

 

F155 'rotection & Conservation 350 velopment Assistance 480:]Provision of Information
220- a» oloit & Devgnt Resources 4 search 490:]Consultation
230l:lProduction 42 nitoring & Measurement SOOEIITechnical Development
240C:3Marketing and Distribution 430C3Forecasting
2501:]Provision of Services 440:]Assessment & Evaluation

 

'Function (Wm Of 6 Boxes)

120[::]Policy Unit 360:3Data Bank 580:]Standards & Specs Centre
lBOCjLegislative Unit 370C!Statistical Unit 5901:3Advisory Service
140E:lManagement Unit 380E3Data Assessment Centre 600C3Clnbudsman
l50EjRepresent/Negotiating Unit 3901:]Referral/Directory Service 61d:JInspect & Regulating Agency
160C3Financial Allocation Unit 400E31ndexing/Abstracting Ser 6203mw Enforcement Agency
l70[:IFinancial Assistance Agency4lOCJCanputerized Bibliogr Ser 630[:lSchool

l80[:IDevpmt Assistance Agency 420C3Library 650ETraining Centre

190i ETechnical Assistance Agency425C3Documentation Centre 6601:]Higher Education Institute

 

 

2 vironmental Unit 4261:: Translation Service 670E13Adult Education Centre
2 esearch & Development Unit430[:JPatent Office 680l:| Socio—Economic Study Centre
220:]Iaboratory 440[:] Enquiry Centre 690C3Consultant
230:)Operational Unit 450C: Information Analysis Centre 7101:] Management Studies Centre
2401:3Production Unit 4551:) Forecasting Unit 720E3Academic or learned Society
ZSOCIMarket & Distribution Dept 46OCIlModelling/Simulation Unit 730C1Employers Association
2601:]Advertising Agency 470C3Museum 760E] Contractor
270C3Field Centre 4801:]Seed or Sperm Bank 7701:1Trades Union
280E:IHealth Centre or Hospital 490E:lCulture Collection 780:1Publisher
290C:lRemote Sensing Facility 500(___IGene Pool 785C21Public Info Service Media
300C1Weather Station ‘ SlOCZIBotanic Garden 790:] Citizen Action Group
3lO-Monitor Assessment Centre 520:1Zoo 800C:lPublic/Social Service Unit
‘320EIJMonitoring Station 530C31nventory or Register 810:! Individual Expert
330E3Early Warn/Disaster PredictS4OEZlCartographical Unit 83012:! Industrial Trade/Prof Assoc
340l:lEmergency Preparedness UnitSSOCIJCaImission/Stand Committee 2551:]Technology Devpmt Unit
350E3Ccmnunications Network 570l:JTribunal
IV. GEDGRAPHICAL COVERAGE AND WORKING LANGUAGE OF SOURCE
Name the country (les) or geographical area (s) [415) Working language (s) of information source
primarily covered by your information source. and its documents (in order of preference).
United States _ English

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V. CODED INFORMATIONAL A'ITRIBUTES OF INFORMATION SOURCE

13 Availability (Maximum of 8 Boxes)
1 Restriction 1601:10n An Exchange Basis 190C3Handling Charges Only
12

Negotiation l7OI:JFixed Schedule of Charges 200C3Time—Use Restrictions

l40EjNormally Without Charge 1751:1Ad Hoc Payment 210E3Publication Restrictions

Ol—jAs Resources Permit 180l:lPayment of Royalties
- QEOutput (Maximum of 8 Boxes)
OlOL'ZIUnprocessed Data 040-Abstracts O70[:jSpecial Use—Oriented Report1
020[:]Processed/Analysed Data 0 @7315 olications or Reports O8OCjPopular Publications
JO3OCJBiblioor & '4‘ "f‘ ‘ CGSOoHDTar-‘ba q 1""; q o. ".00. O'l._b..-«- A o. ‘ o A. ' .
35 Output Forms (Minimum of 12 30er
ZOCZIFormatted 320mGraphic Material SOOEIJReduced (Microform)
200C1Audio-Visual .* 330C3Canputer Print-Out 510cX1cOpied
210E30ral ‘_ 4lOEjMachine-Readable 520C3Tele-Facsimile
3OOGQHand—Written/Typed 420m—Line
‘ 310®Printed

EPA HQ FORM 2100-3 (REV 12-79)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2 OF 3

 




V1. .CODED'SUBJECT ATTRIBUTES (Tiese codes best describe your organization's
areas of expertise)

618 M9§t Relevant Attributes (up to 15 codes from Subject Attribute List)

 

2751 2760 2750 2756' 2552
2755 2761 7120 6220 2521

2420 2672

 

619 Other Associate Attributes . (up to 15 codes from Subject Attribute List)

2750 2560 4800 3020 ~ 0 20501

Please return completed form to:

Director, USIERC (PM-213)

U.S. National Focal Point for INFOTERRA
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
401 M Street, SW

Washington, D. C. 20460

PAGE 3 OF 3.
EPA HQ FORM 2100-3 (REV. 12-15!

 




UNEP/INFOTERRA
Subject Attributes

scum IN W10 W

4430 ABANDONED VEHICLES

6780 ABATEMENT OF NOISE

2040 ACCESS TO LAND

5420 ACCIDENTAL RELEASE AND SPILLAGE
1242 ACCIDENTS

6090 ACIDIC DEPOSITION

6101 ACIDIC PARTICLES

6085 ACIDS & ACIDITY

6770 ACOUSTIC INSULATION

6771 ACOUSTICS

2361 ACTIVITIES. LEISURE

2540 ADAPTABLE SPECIES

4810 ADDITIVE EFFECTS

6150 ADDITIVES; FOOD. AND DRUGS
7011 ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGERIAL INFORMATION
1460 ADVANTAGES IN TRADE

4140 ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION
4271 ADVERTISING SIGNS

3640 AERIALS. PYLONS, TRANSMISSION LINES
2771 AEROBIC PROCESSES

6100 AEROSOLS

2711 AFORESTATION & REAFORESTATION
1080 AGE DISTRIBUTION

3551 AGRICULTURAL BUILDINGS
6110 AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS
2661 AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS
4118 AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING
4131 AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY — F000
2625 AGRICULTURAL LAND

2630 AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY
2640 AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES
2660 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
6271 AGRICULTURAL WASTES

2620 AGRICULTURE

6020 AIR POLLUTANTS, GASEOUS
4940 AIR POLLUTION

4941 AIR QUALITY

4470 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL

4450 AIR TRANSPORT

1751 AIR-HATER INTERACTION

4490 AIRCRAFT

6420 AIRCRAFT NOISE

4480 AIRCRAFT, SUPERSONIC

3590 AIRPORTS

5931 ALDEHYDES

6105 ALKALIS & ALKALINITY

6230 ALLERGENS

6231 ALLERGIC REACTIONS

1964 ALPINE ECOLOGY

1725 ALPINE ECOSYSTEMS

6800 ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGIES
2930 AMENITIES. AQUATIC

2670 AMENITY FARMING

2020 AMENITT VALUES

5600 AMMONIACAL COMPOUNDS

7I40 AMPUIDIANS

2775 ANAEROEIC PROCESSES

6995 ANALYSIS AND ASSESSMENT
7090 ANALYSIS AND REVIEW. PROGRAMME
5306 ANALYSIS, CHEMICAL

7080 ANALYSIS, COST BENEFIT
5230 ANALYTICAL APPARATUS

2940 ANGLING

2751 IMAL B
0 ANIMAL BREEDING AND GENETICS

s...

3724 ANIMAL DUNG AS FUEL
4040 ANIMAL GLUE AND/GELATIN MANUFACTURE

2752 ANIMAL MIGRATIONS
.2762 ANIMAL wmnom
ANIMAL 510 AND PA
2530 ANIMAL POPULATION A
6821 ANIMAL PRODUCTS
2763 ANIMAL WASTE DISPOSAL
2812 ANIMALS, BIRDS AND “sass. msmsm

2756 ANIMA
., 2 ANIMALS. ENDANGERED

Himl‘ﬂiﬂkﬂaurly ‘ '
ANTAGONISTIC EFFECTS
ANTI-FOG AND ANTI-SW DEVICE
ANTI-POLLUTION INCENTIVES
ANTIBIOTICS
ANTIMONY
APPLICATION OF PESTICIDES

4000
1014
2070
3011

2930
7160
2774
2792
2721
2431
2400
2570
3100
I965
1724
2210
2120
2015
2125
2481

5530
3760
1752
406!

5830
6995
4660
4560
6590
6920
6890
6910
6900
3360
4950
1762
1760
1763
5201
6040
1761
5240
4120
1955
4112
4460
1500

APPLIED NUTRITION

APPRAISAL OF RESOURCES
APPROPRIATION OF LAND

AQUACULTURE

AQUATIC AMENITIES

AQUATIC MAMMALS

AQUATIC MICROBIOLOGY

AQUATIC PEST CONTROL

AQUATIC PLANT BIOLOGY

AQUATIC, MARINE BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
ARCHAEOLOGICAL AND HISTORICAL STRUCTURES
ARCHAIC BREEDING LINES

ARCHITECTURL

ARCTIC ECOLOGY

ARCTIC ECOSYSTEMS

AREAS. INDUSTRIAL

AREAS, RESIDENTIAL

AREAS, RURAL

AREAS. URBAN

ARID LANDS

ARSENIC

ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING

ARTIFICIAL PRECIPITATION

ARTIFICIAL TEXTILE FIBRE MANUFACTURE
ASBESTOS

ASSESSMENT & ANALYSIS

ASSESSMENT OF POLLUTANTS
ASSESSMENT. ENVIRONMENTAL ,
ASSIMILATION OF WASTE. CAPACITIES
ASSISTANCE. FINANCIAL

ASSISTANCE. MATERIAL.

ASSISTANCE. SPECIALIST

ASSISTANCE: TECHNICAL

ASSOCIATIONS AND COOPERATIVES. ROUSING
ATMOSPHERE. UPPER, POLLUTION 0F
ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY 6 COMPOSITION
ATMOSPHERIC CIRCULATION. GENERAL
ATMOSPHERIC MODELS

ATMOSPHERIC MONITORING

ATMOSPHERIC PARTICULATES
ATMOSPHERIC PHYSICS

AUTOMATIC DETECTION

AUTOMOBILES

AVALANCHES & LANDSLIDES

AVIATION ENGINEERING

AVIATION, CIVIL

AWARDS. HONOURS AND COMPETITIONS

BAC'I‘ERIOLDGY

BBNDING (BINDING) AND BANDING DATA
BARIUM

BASIC FOOD mum

BASINS. RIVER

BEACHES AND SEA snout-B

BEEF AND DAIRY FARMING

BEHAVIOUR AND oomumw mum
BEHAVIOUR. ANIMAL

ammo ECOLOGY

BERYLLIUM

BIO-NON-DEGRADABLE MATERIAIS
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND
BIOCHEMICAL POLLUTION CRITERIA
BIOCHDIISTRY

oncmas INCLUDING PESTICIDES
BIODEXSRADABILITY

BIODEGRADABLE PLASTICS
BIODDGRADATION

BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL manna
BIOLOGICAL oommx.

BIOLOGICAL FRESHWATER RESOURCES
BIOLOGICAL mmcnons

BIOLOGICAL MARINE AQUATIC assumes

~ BIOWICAL WITORING

BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND
BIOIDGICAL PARAME'luS

BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES

BIOLOGICAL mm mm
DIOLOGY

BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY. MARINE
BIODOGY. ANIMAL

BIOLOGY. AQUATIC PLANT

BIOLOGY. HUMAN

BIOLOGY, INSECT (ENDOMOLOGY)
DIOMETEOROLDGY

 




WM

SUIJICTS IR ALPIAIETIC SEQUENCE

1710 BIO'IOPES AND PADSYSTEMS
6261 BIUIOXINS

2753 BIRD MIGRATIONS

2794 BIRD PEST CONTROL

276: 4. .axngIMmzl_Lﬂvsaw

7120'

1100 BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING
4090 BOARD AND PAPER MANUFACTURE

3530 BOARDING HOUSES. HOTELS AND HOSTELS
2950 BOATING

4910 BODY TISSUE CONTAMINATION

6650 BOILERS AND BURNERS

4481 ROOMS. SONIC

5590 BORON

2720 KITANY

1290 BOUNDARIES AND FRONTIERS

2520 BREEDING AND GENETICS. ANIMAL

2510 BREEDING AND GENETICS. PLANT

2570 BREEDING LINES. ARCHAIC

2521 BREEDING. DOMESTIC CATTLE

4010 BREWING AND DISTILLING

3840 BRICKS AND CEMENT MANUFACTURE

3580 BRIDGES AND ROADS

3140 BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
3230 BUILDING COMPONENT DESIGN

3150 BUILDING MATERIALS. LOCAL

3240 BUILDING SITE PLANT & EQUIPMENT
3380 BUILDING SOCIETIES 4 HOME LOANS
2160 BUILDING. HIGH-RISE

3570 BUILDINGS AND INSTALLATIONS, MILITARY
3560 BUILDINGS AND WORKS. PUBLIC AND GOVERNMENT
3551 BUILDINGS. AGRICULTURAL

3510 BUILDINGS, HISTORIC

2824 BUILT DRAINAGE SYSTEMS

2000 BUILT ENVIRONMENT

6650 BURNERS AND BOILERS

(3

5510 CADMIUM

5700 CALCIUM"

3540 CAMPS. HOLIDAY

2101 CAPABILITIES OF LANDS
4340 CAR OWNERSHIP

4330 CAR PARKING

3541 CARAVANS AND TRAILERS
3983 CARBOHYDRATES

3723 CARBON AND CHARCOAL
5770 CARBON DIOXIDE

5760 CARBON MONOXIDE
.W

1614 CARDIOLOGY

5291 CATALYSTS AND CATALYTIC REACTIONS

,. . 2.5-21-~~_m-.CJWLEW

4023 CELLULOSE ‘

3840 CEMENT AND BRICKS MANUFACTURE
3830 CERAMICS MANUFACTURE

4840 CHAIN REACTIONS

1886 CHANGES. GEOPHYSICAL

4590 CHARACTARISTICS AND PARAMETERS OF QUALITY
3723 CHARCOAL AND CARBON

5306 CHEMICAL ANALYSIS

3890 CHEMICAL AND ALLIED INDUSTRIES
5430 CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL WARFARE
6490 CHEMICAL DECONTAMINATION

6141 CHEMICAL DEGRADATION OF “ASHE
4I11 CHEMICAL ENGINEERING

6380 CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND

5305 CHEMICAL REACTIONS

5290 CHEMICAL STRUCTURES AND PROPERTIES
5292 CHEMICAL/PHYSICAL PROCESSES
6110 \ CHEMICALS. AGRICULTURAL

4880 CHEMICALS, LONG~TERM EFFECT OF
5320 CHmICALS . TOXIC

5300 CHEMISTRY

1762 CHEMISTRY AND COMPOSITION OF ATMOSPHERE
4790 CHEMISTRY OF POLLUTANTS

6640 CHIMNEYS. FLUES AND STACKS

5840 CHLORINE AND HYDROCHLORIC ACID
5610 CHROMIUM

4460 CIVIL AVIATION

1530 CIVIL DEFENCE

3110 CIVIL ENGINEERING

I250 CIVIL STRIFE

2100 CLASSIFICATION. LAND USE

4300 CLASSIFICATIONS OF ROADS

6492
6493
1670
3430
I749
1754
5205
4740
1753
1750
4132
6880
3681
3800
2970
5550
5170
3800
6320
5341
6400
3020
3790
2180
1550
1110
1430
1500
3230
1762
6272
6620
7070
4670
2714
2826
1921
2420

CIEAN-UP OPERATIONS. DISASTER
CLEANSING. INDUSTRIAL
CLEANSING, PUBLIC

CLEARANCE OF SLUMS

CLIMATE & HEATHER

CLIMATE / HEATHER MODIFICATION
CLIMATE AND WEATHER MONITORING
CLIMATES. POLLUTANT EFFECT ON
CLIMATIC CHANGE (NATURAL)
CLIMATOLOGY AND METEOROLOGY
CLOTHING AND TEXTILE INDUSTRY
CO~OPERATION. INTERNATIONAL
COAL

COAL GAS AND COKE MANUFACTURE
COASTAL DEWOI’MFNI‘ AND PRUI‘ECTIM
COBALT

CODES OF PRACTICE

COKE AND GAS MANUFACTURE
OOLOURANTS

COMBUSTION ENGINES

COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL NOISE
COMMERCIAL HEALING

COMMUNAL HEATING FACILITIES

COMMUNITY STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOUR
COMPENSATION

COMPETITIONS, RUMOURS AND AWARDS
COMPONENT DESIGN. BUILDING
COMPOSITION AND CHEMISTRY OF ATMOSPHERE
COMPOSTS AND NATURAL FERTILISERS
COMPRESSORS AND PUMPS

COMPUTER METHODS
CONCENTRATION/EFFECTS RELATIONSHIPS
OONIFER FORESTS

CONSERVATION 5 COLLECTION OF WATER

CONSIDERATIONS DESIGN
CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE OF ROADS
CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING MATERIALS
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRIES
CONSTRUCTION WORKS
CONSUMER GOODS
CONSUMER GROUPS
CONTAINERISATION
CONTAINERS, REUSABLE
CONTAMINATION OF BODY TISSUE
CONTAMINATION OF FOOD
CONTOUR FARMING
0F PESTICIDES
0F PESTS
OF POLLUTION
. 0F POLLUTION. TECHNOLOGY
OF ROAD TRAFFIC
OF WEEDS (HERBICIDES)
SYSTEMS
. AQUATIC PEST
. BIOLOGICAL
. BIRD PEST
. INSECT
. MAMMALIAN PEST
CONTROL, SHIP FOULING
CONTROLLED FIRES
COOLING WATERS
COOPERATIVES AND ASSOCIATIONS. HOUSING
COPPER
CORROSION
CORROSION PREVENTATIVES
COSMETICS
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS
COUNTRIES. INDUSTRIALISED
COUNTRIES, LESS INDUSTRIALISED
COUNTRYSIDE
CRASHES AND HRECKS
CRIME AND VANDALISM
CRIME PREVENTION AND LAW EDHNHNHDUDTT
CRITERIA FOR DESIGN OF VEHICLES
CRITERIA OF ORGANIC POLLUTION
CRITERIA OF POLLUTION
CRITERIA OF POLLUTION, FUNCTIONAL
CRITERIA. BIWIIH‘IICAL POLLUTICN
CROP PROTECTION
CRUDE OIL ’
CULTURAL AND SOCIAL INDICATORS

 




SUBJECTS IN ALPHABETIC SEQUENCE

CULTURES. TRADITIONAL 6171 DRUG ABUSE
CURRENTS. OCEAN 6170 DRUG MISUSE
CYANIDES 6190 DRUG RESIDUES
CYCLING 6I80 DRUG SIDE EFFECTS
CYTOLOGY 6150 DRUGS AND FOOD ADDITIVES
4080 DRY CLEANING AND LAUNDERING
D 6745 DUMPINC
3050 DUMPINC AT SEA
ZGZZ_L.QSIBXL&LBEEE FARMING 6750 DUMPS. DISPOSAL TIPS
“9 'F"I"I M1! .SI Til - “"" 6070 DUST AND GRIT
DATA RECO DING PROCESSING AND STORAGE 3320 DWELLINGS. MARESHIFT
DATA-ANALYSIS TECHNIQUES 3280 DWELLINGS. MULTI—FAHILY
DATA—LOGGING TECHNIQUES 3891 DYES
DATA. ENVIRONMENTAL '
DEAD. DISPOSAL OF E
DECAY OF URBAN AREAS
DECONTAMINATION. CHEMICAL 1950 EARTHQUARES
DECONTAMINATION. RADIOACTIVE 1730 ECOCYCLES
DEFENCE LANDS 1701 ECOLOGICAL BALANCE
DEFENCE, CIVIL 1700 ECOLOGICAL NICME (HABITAT)
DEGRADATION 0F SOIL 1964 ECOLOGY. ALPINE
DEGREDATION. CHEMICAL OF WASTE 1965 ECOLOGY. ARCTIC
DEMOGRAPHY I967 ECOLOGY. BENTRIC
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS 3001 ECOLOGY. ESTUARINE
DENITRIFICATION 1966 ECOLOGY. FRESHWATER
DENSITY OF HOUSING 3000 ECOLOGY. MARINE
DEPOSITED PARTICULATE MATTER 1962 ECOLOGY. SUB—TROPICAL
DEPOSITION. ACIDIC 1963 ECOLOGY. TEMPERATE
DEPOSITS OF ORE 1960 ECOLOGY. TERRESTRIAL
DERELICT LANDS 1961 ECOLOGY. TROPICAL
DERIVED WORKING LEVELS 6960 ECONOMIC AND TECHNICAL ADVANCEMENT
DESALINATION 1050 ECONOMIC PLANNING
DESERTS 1055 ECONOMICS
DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS 2661 ECONOMICS. AGRICULTURAL
DESIGN OF LANDSCAPE 1710 ECOSYSTEMS AND EIOTOPES
DESIGN STANDARDS. INSTALLATION 1725 ECOSYSTEMS. ALPINE
DESIGN, BUILDING COMPONENT 1724 ECOSYSTEMS. ARCTIC
DESIGN. URBAN 1727 ECOSYSTEMS. FRESRRATER
DESULPHURISATION 1720 ECOSYSTEMS. INTERNATIONALLY SIGNIFICANT
DETECTION. AUTOMATIC 1726 ECOSYSTEMS MARINE
DETERGENT AND SOAP MANUFACTURE 1722 TENS. SUB- CAL
DETERGENTS 1723 ECOSYSTEMS. TEMPERATE
DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING 1721 ECOSYSTENS. TROPICAL
DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION. COASTAL 3984 EDIBLE FATS AND OILS
DEVELOPMENT OF RESOURCES 7050 EDUCATION AND TRAINING. ENVIRONMENTAL
DEVELOPMENT OF TECHNOLOGY 4730 EFFECTS OF POLLUTANTS "““*~' ‘
DEVELOPMENT OF WATERSHEDS 4670 EFFECTS/CONCENTRATION RELATIONSHIPS
DEVELOPMENT. INDUSTRIAL 4810 EFFECTS. ADDITIVE
DEVELOPMENT. URBAN 4830 EFFECTS. ANTAGONISTIC
DEVELOPMENTS. WATERSIDE 2581 EFFECTS. GENETIC
DISASTER CLEAN—UP OPERATIONS ‘ 4820 EFFECTS. SYNERGISTIC
DISASTERS 2870 EFFLUENTS AND PROCESS WATERS
DISASTERS PREPAREDNESS AND RELIEF 6310 EFFLUENTS. EXTRACTIVE
DISCRIMINATORY TRADE PRACTICES 6300 EFFLUENTS. INDUSTRIAL
DISEASE VECTORS 6290 EFFLUENTS. ORGANIC
DISEASES OF BIRDS. ANIMALS & FISH 3740 ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION
DISEASES 0P PLANTS 3744 ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (GEOTHERMAL)
DISEASES. ROMAN 3742 ELECTRIC PONER (RYDRo—)
DISINFECTANTS 3743 ELECTRIC POWER (NUCLEAR)
DISPLACED PERSONS 3747 ELECTRIC POWER (SOLAR)
DISPOSABLES 3741 ELECTRIC POWER (STEAM)
DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL WASTE 3745 ELECTRIC POWER (TIDAL)
DISPOSAL OF POLLUTANTS 3746 ELECTRIC POWER (WIND)
DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD 3750 ELECTRIC POWER TRANSMISSION
DISPOSAL TIPS/DUMPS 4115 ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
DISTILLATION OF TAR 3752 ELECTRICAL STORAGE DEVICES
DISTILLING AND BRENING 3751 ELECTRICITY UTILISATION
DISTRIBUTION AND MARKETING 6560 ELECTRODIALYSIS
DISTRIBUTION OF AGES 6570 ELECTROSTATIC PRECIPITATION
DISTRIBUTION OF POLLUTANTS 1241 EMERGENCIES. ENVIRONMENTAL
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS. ENERGY 1520 EMERGENCY SERVICES
DOMESTIC ANIMALS_ 5140 EMISSION STANDARDS
DOMESTIC EIRD HUSBANDRY 5390 EMISSIONS. INDUSTRIAL
DOMESTIC CATTLE BREEDING 6010 EMISSIONS. MOTOR VERICLE
DOMESTIC NOISE 1300 EMPLOYMENT AND MANPOWER
DOMESTIC RESOURCES 2990 ENCLOSED SEAS
DRAINAGE AND PLUMBING 2552 ENDANGERED ANIMALS
DRAINAGE SYSTEMS. BUILT 2551 ENDANGERED PLANTS
DRAINAGE SYSTEMS. NATURAL 2550 ENDANGERED SPECIES
DREDGING AND DRILLING 1615 ENDOCRINOLOGY
DRILLING AND DREDGING 3755 ENERGY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
DRILLING. OFFSHORE 3730 ENERGY ESTABLISHMENTS. NUCLEAR
DRINKING WATER 3720 ENERGY SOURCES AND FUELS
DRINKING WATER TREATMENT 1510 ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS AND CRIME PREVENTION
DRIVING TESTS 4110 ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES
DROUGHTS 4113 ENGINEERING. AGRICULTURAL

 

 




SUBJECTS III ALPHABETIC SEQUENCE

ENGINEERING. AVIATION

ENGINEERING. CHEMICAL

ENGINEERING. CIVIL

ENGINEERING. ELECTRICAL

ENGINEERING. HUMAN-ERGONOMICS
ENGINEERING. MECHANICAL

ENGINEERING. MINING

ENGINEERING. TRAFFIC

ENGINES. COMBUSTION

ENHANCEMENT OF RESOURCES
ENTERPRISES. STATE

ENTOMOLOGY. INSECT BIOLOGY
ENVIRONMENT. BUILT

ENVIRONMENT. OCCUPATIONAL
ENVIRONMENT. RURAL

ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA

ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
ENVIRONMENTAL EMERGENCIES
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH

ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT

ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION
ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATIONT“
ENVIRONMENTAL MISCONDUCT
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY

ENVIRONMENTAL PRIORITIES
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY STANDARDS
ENVIRONMENTAL R&D PROGRAMMES & POLICY
ENVIRONMENTAL STATISTICS
ENVIRONMENTS. IN-SHORE

ENZYMES

EPIDEMICS

EPIDEMIOLOGY

EQUIPMENT AND PLANT. BUILDING SITE
EQUIPMENT. CONSTRUCTIONAL

EQUIPMENT. HOUSEHOLD

ERGONOMICS — HUMAN ENGINEERING
EROSION

EROSION BY WAVES

ESTATE MANAGEMENT

ESTERS. PHTHALIC ACID

ESTUARIES

ESTUARINE ECOLOGY

EUTROPHICATION

EVAPORATION AND TRANSPIRATION
EVOLUTION

EXCAVATIONS AND SPOIL HEAPS
EXPLOITATION & EXPLORATION OF THE SEA FLOOR
EXPLOITATION OF RESOURCES
EXPLORATION OF SPACE

EXPLORATION. OIL AND NATURAL GAS
EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS

EXPOSURE. TARGET

EXPOSURES. LOW-LEVEL

EXTRA-NATIONAL EFFECTS OF POLLUTANTS
EXTRACTION AND PROCESSING OF MINERALS
EXTRACTION OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS
EXTRACTION OF SAND AND GRAVEL
EYTRACTIVE EFFLUENTS

EXTRAPOLATION AND TESTING. TOXICOLOGICAL

F

FACTORIES

FACTORY SHIPS

FALLOUT. RADIOACTIVE

FAMILY PLANNING AND BIRTH CONTROL
FARMING. AMENITY

FARMING . CONTOUR

FARMING. DAIRY AND BEEF

FARMING. FISH

FAT AND OILS. EDIBLE

FAUNA

FERAL ANIMALS

FERTILISERS

FERTILISERS. NATURAL AND COMPOSTS
FILTERS. SCRUBBERS AND SEPARATORS
FINANCE AND SUBSIDIES. HOUSING
FINANCE. TAXATION AND CURRENCY
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

FIRE PRECAUTIONS

FIRE RETARDANTS

FIRES

FIRES. CONTROLLED

FIRES. FOREST AND GRASS

FIREWOOD

7150
2673
2812
4771
3010
2722
1795
6580
1800
1795
2452
6640

3093

5820
6041
6150
1740
6160
3961
3960
4131
3990
3982
3980
3970
4580
1770
1771
1244
2710
4020
2700
2717
2714

FISH

FISH FARMING

FISH. BIRDS AND ANIMALS. DISEASES
FISH. EFFECT OF POLLUTANT

FLOCCULATION

FLOODING

FLOODS. FLASH

FLORA

FLUES. CHIMNEYS AND STACKS
FLUID DYNAMICS

FLUORIDES

FOG AND HAZE

FOOD ADDITIVES AND DRUGS

FOOD CHAINS

FOOD CONTAMINATION

FOOD PRESERVATION TECHNIQUES
FOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRY

FOOD PRODUCTION BY AGRICULTURE
FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
FOOD. BASIC REQUIREMENTS

FOODS. HIGH IN PROTEIN

FOODS, STAPLE

FORECASTING AND LONG~TERM TRENDS
FORECASTING. WEATHER. LONG-RANGE
FORECASTING. WEATHER. SHORT~RANGE
FOREST AND GRASS FIRES

FOREST COVER

FOREST PRODUCTS

FORESTRY AND SYLVICULTURE
FORESTS INDIGENOUS

FORESTS. CONIFER

FORESTS. TEMPERATE AND WOODLANDS
FORESTS, TROPICAL

FOSSIL FUELS

FOULING (SHIP). CONTROL
FREEWAYS AND MOTORWAYS

FREIGHT TRANSPORT

FRESHWATER BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
FRESHWATER ECOLOGY

FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS
FRESHWATER MONITORING

FRONTIERS AND BOUNDARIES

FUEL FROM ANIMAL DUNG

FUELS AND ENERGY SOURCES

FUELS. FOSSIL

FUELS. NON—POLLUTING

FUNCTIONAL POLLUTION CRITERIA
FUNDS FOR STIMULATION

FURNACES

G

GARDENS AND PARKS. URBAN

GAS. NATURAL

GASEOUS AIR POLLUTANTS

GAUGES. METERS AND VALVES
GENERAL ATMOSPHERIC CIRCULATION
GENERAL MANUFACTURING
GENERATION OF ELECTRICITY
GENETIC EFFECTS

GENETIC RESOURCES

GENETICS

GENETICS AND BREEDING. ANIMAL
GENETICS AND BREEDING. PLANT
GEOGRAPHY

GEOLOGY

GEOMORPHOLOGY

GEOPHYSICAL CHANGES
GEOSTATISTICS

GEOTHERMAL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION
GERIATRICS

GERMANIUM

GLACIERS & GLACIOLOGY

GLASS MANUFACTURE

GLASSHOUSE EFFECTS

GLOBAL TRENDS. LONG-TERM

GLUE & GELATINE MANUFACTURE (ANIMAL)
GOODS. CONSUMER

GOVERNMENT & OTHER PUBLIC BUILDINGS G WORKS
GRASS AND FOREST FIRES
GRASSLANDS

GRAVEL AND SAND EXTRACTION
GREEN BELTS

 




SUBJECTS IN ALPHABETIC WHICH

GRIT AND DUST

GROUPS. CONSUMER

GROWTH RATES AND PRODUCTIVITY
GROWTH. URBAN

HABITAT (ECOLOGICAL NICHE)
RAEMATOLOGY

RALOGENS. ORGANO-

RANDICRRPED PEOPLE

HARBOURS AND PO IS

HARVESTING

HAZARDOUS HATERIALS MOVEMENT
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES

HAZE AND FOG

HEALTH AND WELLBEING

HEALTH. ENVIRONMENTAL

HEALTH. OCCUPATIONAL

HEALTH. PUBLIC AND SANITATION
HEAT. WASTE

HEATING

HEATING. COMMUNAL

HEATING. SOLAR

HEAVY METALS

HERBICIDES AND WEED CONTROL AGENTS
HERITAGE, WORLD

HIGH PROTEIN FOODS

RIGR~RISE BUILDING

HIKING AND RAMBLING

RINTERLANDS, INTERNATIONAL
HISTORIC BUILDINGS

HISTORICAL AND ARCRAEOLOGICAL STRUCTURES
HOLIDAY CAMPS

HOME LOANS AND BUILDING SOCIETIES
ROME OWNERSHIP

RONELESSNESS

HOMES. TRANSPORTABLE

HONOURS. CONFETITIONS AND AWARDS
RORMONES

RORTICULTURE

HOSPITALS. ETC

ROSTELS. HOTELS AND BOARDING HOUSES
HOTELS. HOSTELS AND BOARDING HOUSES
HOUSE RENTS

HOUSEROLD EQUIPMENT
HOUSES.SINGLE—FAMILY

HOUSING ASSOCIATIONS & COOPERATIYES
HOUSING DENSITY

HOUSING FINANCE & SUBSIDIES
HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS

HOUSING NEEDS

HOUSING PROGRAMMES

HOUSING STANDARDS

HOUSING. INDUSTRIALISED/PREFABRICATED
HOUSING. LOW—COST

HUMAN BIOLOGY

HUMAN DISEASES

SEDAN ENGINEERING~ERGONOMICS
SUMAN EXCREMENT - DISPOSAL AND USE
SUDAN INTAKE

RUNAN MIGRATION .

UUMAN PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY
HUMAN PSYCUOLOGY

HUMAN REPRODUCTION

HUMAN RIGHTS

HUMAN SETTLEMENTS

RUMIDITY

HUNTING

HUSBANDRY. ANIMAL

RYDRAULICS

HYDRO EIEEWRIC ROVER GENERATION
HYDROCARDONS

HYDROCARBONS. POLYCYCLIC
HYDROCARBONS, UNSATURATED
HYDROCELORIC ACID AND CRLORINE
HYDROGEN SULPRIDE

HYDROGRAPRY

HYDROLOGY

HYDROPONICS

I

IDENTIFICATION OF POLLUTANTS
IMMUNOLOGY

IMPACT. ENVIRONMENTAL

IMPROVEMENT OF SOILS

IMPROVEMENT SCHEMES. NEIGHBOURHOOD
IMPROVEMENTS IN HOUSING

INvSRORE ENVIRONMENTS

INCENTIVES AND SUBSIDIES
INCENTIVES. ANTI POLLUTION
INCINERATION

INDICATORS. BIOLOGICAL

INDICATORS, SOCIAL AND CULTURAL
INDICES OF POLLUTION

INDIGENOUS FORESTS

INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL NOISE
INDUSTRIAL AREAS

INDUSTRIAL CLEANSING

INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT

INDUSTRIAL EFFLUENTS

INDUSTRIAL ENISSIONS
IMWERMLIMMUNm

INDUSTRIAL LIQUID WASTES
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION

INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTES
INDUSTRIALISED COUNTRIES
INDUSTRIALISED/PREFABRICATED HOUSES
INDUSTRIES. CRENICAL AND ALLIED
INDUSTRIES. CONSTRUCTION
INDUSTRIES. ENGINEERING

INDUSTRY

INDUSTRY. CLOTHING AND TEXTILE
INDUSTRY, FOOD—PROCESSING
INDUSTRY. LOCATION OF

INDUSTRY. NATURAL GAS

INDUSTRY, RRINTING

INFESTATIONS

INFORMATION FOR THE FURLIC
INFORMATION, ADMIN. & MANAGERIAL
INFORMATION. ENVIRONMENTAL
INFORMATION. LEGISLATIVE
INFORMATION. PUBLIC NEDIA
INFORMATION. SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL
INRALENTS. INDUSTRIAL

INKS. PRINTING

INLAND WATERWAYS

INNOVATION

INORGANIC POLLUTANTS

INSECT BIOLOGY * ENTOMOLOGY
INSECT CONTROL

INSECTS ETC

INSPECTION OF VEHICLES
INSTALLATION DESIGN STANDARDS
INSTALLATIONS AND BUILDINGS. MILITARY
INSTRUMENTATION

INSULATION TECHNIQUES. TRERMAL
INSULATION, ACOUSTIC

INSURANCE

INTAKE DY HUMANS

INTEBRATED TRANSPORT SYSTEMS
INTERACTION OF PESTICIDES
INTERACTION OF POLLUTANTS WITH ENVIRONMENT
INTERACTION. AIR¢HATER ‘
INTERCALIBRATION

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
INTERNATIONAL EFFECTS OF POLLUTANTS
INTERNATIONAL HINTERLANDS
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM
INTERNATIONAL STANDARDISATION
INTERNATIONAL TRADE

INTERNATIONAL WATERS
INTERNATIONALLY SIGNIFICANT ECOSYSTEMS
INVERTEBRATES

IONISING RADIATION

IRON

IRON AND STEEL MANUFACTURE
IRRIGATION

ISLANDS FOR SCIENCE

ISLANDS. MAN-MADE

 




SUBJECTS IR ALPHABETIC m

LABOUR. LOCAL
LABOUR. MIGRANT
LAKES AND PONDS
LAKES. MAN-MADE
LAND ACCESS
LAND AND PROPERTY REGISTRIES
LAND APPROPRIATION
LAND CAPABILITIES
LAND MAMMALS

POLLUTION

RECLAMATION

REFORM

RESTORATION

SALTATION

TENURE

USE

USE CLASSIFICATION

VALUES

. AGRICULTURAL ,
LANDFILL & TIPPING. SANITARY
LANDS. ARID
LANDS. DEFENCE
LANDS. DERELICT
LANDS. MARGINAL
LANDS. SEMI-ARID
LANDS, NATERLOGGED
LANDSCAPE DESIGN
LANDSLIDES AND AVALANCHES
LAUNDERING AND DRY CLEANING
LAN ENFORCEMENT AND CRIME PREVENTION
LEAD
LEATHER TANNING
LEGISLATION. ENVIRONMENTAL
LEGISLATIVE INFORMATION
LEISURE ACTIVITIES
LESS INDUSTRIALISED COUNTRIES
LEVEL OF NO—EFFECT
LEVELS OF SEA AND TIDES
LEVIES AND PENALTIES
LIAIBILITIES FOR POLLUTION
LICENSING
LICENSING OF VEHICLES
LIFE. QUALITY OF
LIGHTING
LIGHTING. ARTIFICIAL
LIMNOLOGY
LIQUID NASTE DISPOSAL TECHNIQUES
LIQUID wASTES
LITTER AND SCRAP
LOCAL LABOUR
LOCAL MATERIALS FOR BUILDING
LOCATION OF INDUSTRY
LOCATION OF OFFICES AND 'SHOPS
LONG-RANGE HEATHER FORECASTING
DONG~TERM EFFECTS OF CHEMICALS
LONG-TENN GLOBAL TRENDS
LONGMTERM TRENDS AND FORECASTING
W LEVEL EXPOSURES
LomeT HOUSING
IMuINOOME GROUPS
Low-LEVEL TECHNOLOGIES

MACHINERY. AGRICULTURAL

MAGNESIUM

MAINTENANCE 8 CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS
MAKESHIFT DWELLINGS

MALNUTRITION AND STARVATION
MAMMALIAN PEST CONTROL

MAMMALS. AQUATIC

MANAGEMENT OF ESTATES

MANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES

MANAGERIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION
MANGANESE

MANPOWER AND EMPLOYMENT

MANUFACTURE OF BRICKS AND CEMENT
MANUFACTURE OF CERAMICS

MANUFACTURE OF CORE AND GAS

MANUFACTURE OF GLASS

3850
4090
3900
3920
4030
4100
1860
1855
2240
2431
2741
3000
1726
5203
4970
3070
4150
4200
6890
3140
3160
5361
5470
1400
5480
7060
3120
7002
3590
2810
5970
5520
4900
6135
3870
3871
3860
5491
5490
5492
3880
1750
6630
7030
6996
2154
2770
2774
1820
2773

1330.

3462
2752
2753
1072
1230
3570
3690
1021
3672
4114
3673
1280
1190
6170
5282
1763
1754
1490
5200
5207
5210
5209
5208
5201
5215
5202
5203
5214
5204
5205
6010
4351
3581
2380
1881

MANUFACTURE OF IRON AND STEEL
MANUFACTURE OF PAPER AND BOARD
MANUFACTURE OF PLASTICS AND PLASTICISERS
MANUFACTURE OF SOAP AND DETERGENT -
MANUFACTURE OF TOBACCO
MANUFACTURING, GENERAL

MAPPING AND PHOTOGRAPRIC SURVEYS
MAPPING. THEMATIC

MARGINAL LANDS

MARINE AQUATIC BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
MARINE BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY
MARINE ECOLOGY

MARINE ECOSYSTEMS

MARINE MONITORING

MARINE FOLLUTIGN

MARINE TECHNOLOGY

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

MASS TRANSPORT SYSTEMS

MATERIAL ASSISTANCE

MATERIALS FOR BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
MATERIALS SCIENCE

MATERIALS, EXPLOSIVE

MATERIALS. NON‘BIODEGRADABLE
MATERIALS. RAW

MATERIALS. RECYCLED

MATHEMATICS AND STATISTICS
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING

MEDIA. PUBLIC INFORMATION
MEDICINE

MEDICINE, VETERINARY

MERCAPTANS

MERCURY

METABOLISM

METABOLISM OF PESTICIDES

METAL FINISHING ‘
METAL FLATING

METAL SMELTING AND REFINING
METALLURGY

METALS

METALS, HEAVY

METALWORKING

METEOROLOGY AND CLIMATOLOGY
METERS, GAUGES AND VALVES
METHODS AND ORGANISATION
METHODS. SCIENTIFIC
MICRO-CLIMATE, URBAN EFFECTS
MICROBIOLOGY

MICROBIOLOGY. AQUATIC
MICROCLIMATE

MICROORGANISMS

MIGRANT LABOUR

MIGRANT HORKERS

MIGRATION. ANIMAL

MIGRATION, BIRD

MIGRATIONS. HUMAN

MILITARY ACTIVITIES

MILITARY BUILDINGS & INSTALLATIONS
MINERAL EXTRACTION AND PROCESSING
MINERAL RESOURCES

MINING

MINING ENGINEERING

MINING. STRIP

MINORITIES AND RACE RELATIONS
MISCONDUCT. ENVIRONMENTAL
MISUSE OF DRUGS

MODELLING AND SIMULATION
MODELS, ATMOSPRERIC
MODIFICATION OF HEATHER/CLIMATE
MONETARY SYSTEM. INTERNATIONAL
MONITORING

WIT‘ORING (BASELINE)
MONITORING (GLOBAL)

WIT‘ORING ([DCAL)

MNITORING (RHIIONAL)
MONITORING. ATMOSPHERIC
WITORING. BIOUXIICAL
MONITORING. FRESHWATER
MONITORING. MARINE

MONITORING. NOISE

MONITORING. RADIATION
MONITORING. HEATHER AND CLIMATE
MOTOR VEHICLE EMISSIONS
MOTORCYCLING

MOTORHAYS AND FREEHAYS
MOUNTAINEERING

FDUN'I‘AINS 8 PDUNTAIN WES

 




SUBJECTS IN ALPHABETIC SEQUENCE

MOVEMENT OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 6360 OXYGEN DEMAND. BIOLOGICAL
MOVEMENT OF POPULATION 6380 OXYGEN DEMAND. CHEMICAL
MULTIPLE—FAMILY DWELLINGS 5870 OZONE .
MUNICIPAL WASTE DISPOSAL
MUTAGENESIS !’
MYCOTOXINS

4151 PACKAGING

N 3930 PAINT

4090 PAPER AND BOARD MANUFACTURE,
NATIONAL PARKS AND PROTECTED AREAS 4091 PAPER AND PULP PRODUCTS
NATURAL CLIMATIC CHANGES 4590 PARAMETERS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF QUALITY
NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEMS 2440 PARAMETERS. BIOLOGICAL
NATURAL FERTILIZERS AND COMPOSTS 6250 PARASITES AND PATHOGENIC ORGANISMS
NATURAL GAS 4330 PARKING. CARS
NATURAL GAS AND OIL EXPLORATION 2130 PARKS AND GARDENS. URBAN
NATURAL GAS AND OIL EXTRACTION 2390 PARKS. NATIONAL AND PROTECTED AREAS
NATURAL GAS INDUSTRY 1570 PARTICIPATION. PUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCES 6060 PARTICULATE MATTER. DEPOSITED_
NATURAL VERSUS SYNTHETIC PRODUCTS 6040 PARTICULATES. ATMOSPHERIC ‘
NATURE CONSERVATION 4190 PASSENGER TRANSPORT
NAVAL ACTIVITIES 6250 PATHOGENIC ORGANISMS AND PARASITES
NEEDS. HOUSING 2750 PATHOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. ANIMAL
NEIGHBOURHOOD IMPROVEMENT SCHEMES 1690 PATHOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. HUMAN
NEW COMMUNITIES 2730 PATHOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. PLANT
NICKEL 4780 PATHWAYS OF POLLUTANTS
NITRATES. NITRITES AND NITROSAMINES 3726 PEAT
NITROGEN FIXATION 4320 PEDESTRIANISATION
NITROGEN OXIDES 1380 PENALTIES AND LEVIES
NO-EFFECT LEVEL 1180 PEOPLES. UNDER-PREVILIGED
NOISE 1905 PERMAFRCST ‘
NOISE ABATEMENT 5293 PERMEABILITY
NOISE MONITORING 6133 PERSISTANCE OF PESTICIDES
NOISE. AIRCRAFT 3461 PERSONS. DISPLACED
NOISE. DOMESTIC 2790 PEST CONTROL
NOISE. INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL 2792 PEST CONTROL (AQUATIC)
NOISE. TRAFFIC 2794 PEST CONTROL (BIRD)
NOMADS . 2793 PEST CONTROL (MAMMALIAN)
NOMENCLATURE 6136 PESTICIDES PATHWAYS AND FATE
NON-BIODEGRADABLE MATERIALS 6130 PESTICIDES AND OTHER BIOCIDES
NON-IONISING RADIATION 6132 PESTICIDES. APPLICATION OF
NON-POLLUTING FUELS 6138 PESTICIDES. CONTROL OF
NON-RENEWABLE RESOURCES 6134 PESTICIDES. INTERACTIONS OF
NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION 6135 PESTICIDES. METABOLISM OF
NUCLEAR ENERGY ESTABLISHMENTS 6133 PESTICIDES. PERSISTENCE OF
NUTRITION OF ANIMALS 6137 PESTICIDES. TOXICITY OF
NUTRITION. APPLIED 3770 PETROLEUM REFINING

5340 PETROLS AND OILS

0 1600 PHARMACOLOGY

5930 PHENOLS
OBJECTIVES. QUALITY 5303 PHEROMONES
OCCUPATIONAL.ENVIRONMENT 5850 PHOSPHATES
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 5910 PHOSPHATES. ORGANO—
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY . 5860 PHOTOCHEMICAL REAGENTS
OCEAN CURRENTS 1860 PHOTOGRAPHIC SURVEYS AND MAPPING
OCEANOGRAPHY 2723 PHOTOSYNTHESIS
ODOURS 5950 PHTHALIC ACID ESTERS
OFF-PEAK AND SHIFT WORKING 5311 PHYSICAL STRESSES AND STRAINS
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES 5292 PHYSICAL/CHEMICAL PROCESSES
OFFICES AND SHOPS 5310 PHYSICS
OFFSHORE DRILLING 1761 PHYSICS. ATMOSPHERIC
OIL AND NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION 2750 PHYSIOLOGY ATHOLOGY. ANIMAL
OIL AND NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION “1896‘ PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY. HUMAN
OIL TANXERS 2730 PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOIOGY. PLANT
OIL. CRUDE 6860 PILOT STUDIES
OILS AND FAT. EDIBLE 4221 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION
OILS AND PETROLS 3630 PIPELINES
OPERATING STANDARDS 1884 PLAINS
ORE DEPOSITS 1970 PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
ORGANIC EFFLUENTS 2080 PLANNING BLIGHT
ORGANIC POLLUTANTS 1050 PLANNING. ECONOMIC
ORGANIC POLLUTION CRITERIA 1100 PLANNING. FAMILY AND BIRTH CONTROL
ORGANIC SOLVENTS 4291 PLANNING. TRANSPORT
ORGANISATION AND METHODS 3240 PLANT AND EQUIPMENT. BUILDING SITE
ORGANISMS. PATHOGENIC AND PARASITES 2510 PLANT BREEDING AND GENETICS
ORGANO~HALOGENS 2813 PLANT DISEASES
ORGANO-PHOSHATES ‘ 2730 PLANT PHYSIOIOCY AND PATHOLOGY
ORGANO-SILICONES 4060 PLANT TEXTILE FIBRE PRODUCTION
OVERCROWDING 2551 PLANTS. ENDANGERED
OWNERSHIP OF CARS 6690 PLANTS. TREARMENT
OWNERSHIP. HOME 3900 PLASTICISERS AND PLASTICS MANUFACTURE
OXIDANTS. PHOTOCHEMICAL 5330 PLASTICS AND PLASTICISERS
OXIDATION - REDUCTION 3900 PLASTICS AND PLASTICISERS MANUFACTURE
OXIDES OF NITROGEN I 5365 PLASTICS AND POLYMER WASTES
OXIDES OF SULPHUR 5473 PLASTICS. BIODEGRADABLE
OXYGEN 1882 PLATEAUS
OXYGEN DEMAND. BIOCHEMICAL 3190 PLUMBING AND DRAINAGE

 




POISONING

SUBJECTS IN ALPHABEIIC SEQUENCE

POLICY FOR SCIENCE
POLICY. ENVIRONMENTAL

POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT
POLLUTANT

ASSESSMENT
CHEMISTRY
DISPOSAL
DISTRIBUTION

EFFECT BEYOND NATIONAL BOUNDARIES

EFFECT ON FISH

EFFECT ON MAN AND SOCIETY
EFFECTS

EFFECTS ON CLIMATES
IDENTIFICATION
INTERACTION WITH ENVIRONMENT
PATHWAYS

RECIPIENTS

SOURCE

SURVEILLANCE

TARGET

POLLUTANTS IN RAIN
POLLUTANTS IN SNOW
POLLUTANTS. AIR. GASEOUS
POLLUTANTS. INORGANIC
POLLUTANTS. ORGANIC
POLLUTER PAYS PRINCIPLE

POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION
POLLUTION

POLLUTION.
POLLUTION.
POLLUTION.
POLLUTION.

& CONTAMINATION OF WATER
CONTROL .
CONTROL TECHNOLOGY
CRITERIA
CRITERIA. BIOCHEMICAL
CRITERIA. FUNCTIONAL
INDICES
LIABILITIES
OF AIR
OF LAND
OF UPPER ATMOSPHERE
RISK
ANTI-. INCENTIVES
CRITERIA. ORGANIC
MARINE
THERMAL

POLYCYCLIC HYDROCARBONS
POLYMER AND PLASTIC WASTES

PONDS AND

LAKES

POPULATION
POPULATION ASSESSMENT. ANIMAL
POPULATION MOVEMENT

PORTS AND
POTASSIUM

PRACTICES.

HARBOURS

AGRICULTURAL

PRECAUTIONS. FIRE

PRECIPITATION. ARTIFICIAL
PRECIPITATION. ELECTROSTATIC \
PREFABRICATED/INDUSTRIALISED HOUSING
PREPAREDNESS FOR AND RELIEF OF DISASTERS
PRESERVATION TECHNIQUES. FOOD
PRESERVATION. WOOD

PREVENTATIVES. CORROSION

PREVENTION OF CRIME AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
PRIMARY PROTECTION STANDARDS

PRINTING INDUSTRY

PRINTING INKS

PRIORITIES. ENVIRONMENTAL

PROCESS WATERS AND EFFLUENTS

PROCESSES.
PROCESSES.
PROCESSES.
PROCESSES.

AEROBIC

ANAEROBIC
CHEMICAL/PHYSICAL
RECYCLING

PROCESSING AND EXTRACTION OF MINERALS
PROCESSING OF RUBBER

PROCESSING OF WOOL

PRODUCT LABELLING

PRODUCT STANDARDS

PRODUCTION. AGRICULJURAL

PRODUCTION. INDUSTRIAL

PRODUCTIVITY AND GROWTH RATES
PRODUCTS OF FORESTS

PRODUCTS.
PRODUCTS.
PRODUCTS.
PRODUCTS.
PROGRAMME

ANIMAL

SYNTHETIC VERSUS NATURAL
VETERINARY

WOOD

ANALYSIS AND REVIEW

PROGRAMMES. HOUSING
PROGRAMMES. SELF HELP
PROHIBITION

PROJECT. DEMONSTRATION

4140
5290
2110
2390

PROMOTION AND ADVERTISING
PROPERTIES AND STRUCTURES. CHEMICAL
PROPERTY AND LAND REGISTRIES
PROTECTED AREAS AND NATIONAL PARKS
PROTECTED SPECIES
_r,M~W-,. ”‘i‘

o 7 0' ‘ i:unPMENT. COASTAL
PROTECTION OF CROPS
PROTECTION STANDARDS. PRIMARY
PROTECTION SYSTEMS
PROTEINS
PSYCHOLOGY. HUMAN
PUBLIC AND GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AND WORKS
PUBLIC CLEANSING
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SANITATION
PUBLIC INFORMATION MEDIA
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
.PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
PUBLIC TRANSPORT
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND SERVICES
PULP AND PAPER PRODUCTS
PUMPS AND COMPRESSORS
PURIFICATION
PYLONS.AERIALS AND TRANSMISSION LINES

‘I

QUALITY CHARACTERISTICS AND PARAMETERS
QUALITY OBJECTIVES

QUALITY OF LIFE

QUALITY OF WATER

QUALITY STANDARDS. ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY. AIR

QUARRYING

RACE RELATIONS AND MINORITIES
RADIATION

RADIATION MONITORING

RADIATION. IONISING

RADIATION. NON—IONISING
RADIATION, SOLAR

RADIO AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
RADIO-TRACING TECHNIQUES
RADIOACTIVE DECONTAMINATION
RADIOACTIVE FALLOUT

RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCES
RADIOACTIVE WASTES

RAIL TRANSPORT

RAILWAYS

RAIN. POLLUTANTS IN

RAINFALL

RAMBLING AND HIKING

RAW MATERIALS

REACTION. CATALYSTS AND CATALYTIC
REACTIONS. ALLERGIC

REACTIONS. CHEMICAL
REAFORESTATION AND AFORESTATION
REAGENTS. PHOTOCHEMICAL
RECIPIENTS OF POLLUTANTS
RECLAHATION OF LAND

RECORDING DEVICES

RECOVERY OF WASTE

RECREATION

RECYCLED MATERIALS

RECYCLING PROCESSES
REDEVELOPMENT OF URBAN AREAS
REFINING AND SMELTING 0F METALS
REFINING OF PETROL

REFUGEES

REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES
REHOUSING

RELATIONSHIPS. CONCENTRATION AND EFFECTS
RELEASES. ACCIDENTAL AND SPILLAGE
RELIEF OF AND PREPAREDNESS FOR DISASTERS
REMOTE SENSING

REMOTE SENSING PROGRAMMES

RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PROGS.. ENVIRONMENTAL
RESERVOIRS AND DAMS

RESIDENTIAL AREAS

RESIDUES AND TRACE MATERIALS

RESIDUES. DRUG

 




. ' SUBJECTSIN AIPHABEIICSBQUENGE

RESOURCE APPRAISAL

RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT

RESOURCE ENHANCEMENT

RESOURCE EXPLOITATION
RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
RESOURCES. BIOLOGICAL
RESOURCES. DOMESTIC
RESOURCES. FRESHWATER BIOLOGICAL
RESOURCES. GENETIC

RESOURCES. MARINE AQUATIC BIOLOGICAL
RESOURCES.‘MINERAL

RESOURCES. NATURAL

RESOURCES. NON-RENEWABLE
RESOURCES. RENEwABLE
RESOURCES. TERRESTRIAL BIOLOGICAL
RESOURCES. WATER

RESTORATION OF LAND
RETARDENTS. FIRE

RETICULATION SYSTEMS. wATER
REUSABLE CONTAINERS
REVEGETATION

REVIEw AND ANALYSIS. PROGRAMME
RIGHTS OF wAY. PUBLIC

RIGHTS. HUMAN

RINGING (BANDING) AND DATA
RISK OF POLLUTION

RIVER BASINS

RIVERS AND STREAMS

ROAD CLASSIFICATION

ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
ROAD SAFETY

ROAD SIGNS AND SIGNALS

ROAD TRAFFIC CONTROL

ROAD TRANSPORT

ROAD USE TOLLS

ROADS AND BRIDGES

RUBBER PROCESSING

RUN—OFF AND SEEPAGE

RURAL AREAS

RURAL ENVIRONMENT

RUSTING

SAFETY ON ROADS
SAFETY. OCCUPATIONAL

SALINATION. LAND

SALINATION. WATER

SAMPLING DEVICES

SAMPLING TECHNIQUES

SAND AND GRAVEL EXTRACTION

SANDS. TAR

SANITARY LANDFILL AND TIPPING
SANITATION AND PUBLIC HEALTH
SAWDUST

SCIENCE OF MATERIALS

SCIENCE POLICY

SCIENCE. ISLANDS FOR

SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL INFORMATION
SCIENTIFIC METHODS

SCRAP AND LITTER

SCRUBBERS. SEPARATORS AND FILTERS
SEA FLOOR EXPLORATION AND EXPLOITATION
SEA LEVEL AND TIDES ’ '
SEA SHORES AND BEACHES

SEA WAVES (TSUNAMI)

SEA. DUMPING AT

SEAS. ENCLOSED

SEDIMENT TRANSPORT

SEDIMEN'I‘ATION

SEEPAGE AND RUN-OFF

SEISMIC SEA WAVES(TSUNAMI)
SELENIUM

SELF HELP PROGRAMMES

SEMI—ARID LANDS

SENSING REMOTE

SEPARATORS. SCRUBBERS AND FILTERS
SEPTIC TANKS

SERVICES AND UTILITIES. PUBLIC
SERVICES. COMMUNITY

SERVICES. EMERGENCY

SERVICES. SOCIAL

SETTLEMENTS. HUMAN

SETTLEMENTS. TEMPORARY
SETTLEMENTS. TRANSITIONAL

SEHAGE

6281
2830
7180
1310
3012
4520
4540
3520
2200
1771
6180
5920
5282
3270
6270
3430
3860
6030
6210
1765
6081
3920
1150
1160
1560
1120
3380
5660
1910
1921
1920
1930
1890
1900
3747
3215
6427
5441
5440
5940
4481
4650
4500
6910
2540
2550
2560

20
1160
2270
2360
3470
6970
5110
3340
5180
5140
5150
5160
5120
3970
1220
3660
7060
6982
1165
3741
3850
5980
6930
1810
2890
2841
5311
1200

'1250

3673
5290
2400
6860
1962
1722
4522
1944
3370
1440

SEWAGE SYSTEMS
SHARED WATERSHEDS
SHELLFISH
SHIFT AND OFF-PEAK WORKING
SHIP FOULING CONTROL
SHIPPING
SHI PS . FACTORY
SHOPS AND OFFICES
SHOPS AND OFFICES. LOCATION OF
SHORT-RANGE WEATHER FORECASTING
SIDE EFFECTS OF DRUGS
SILICONES. ORGANO-
SIMULATION AND MODELLING
SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES
SLAUGHTERHOUSE WASTES
SLUM CLEARANCE
SMELTING AND REFINING OF METALS
SMOKE
SMOKING ( TOBACCO)
SNOW AND ICE
SNOW. POLLUTANTS IN
SOAP AND DETERGENT MANUFACTURE
SOCIAL AND CULTURAL INDICATORS
SOCIAL AND SPIRITUAL VALUES
SOCIAL SERVICES
SOCIAL SURVEYS
SOCIETIES. BUILDING. AND HOME LOANS
SODIUM
SOIL CAPABILITIES
SOIL CONSERVATION
SOIL DEGRADATION
SOIL IMPROVEMENT .
SOIL SCIENCE
SOIL TYPES
SOLAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION
SOLAR HEATING
SOLAR RADIATION
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL TECHNIQUES
SOLID WASTES
SOLVENTS. ORGANO-
SONIC BOOMS
SOURCES OF POLLUTANTS
SPACE EXPLORATION
SPECIALIST ASSISTANCE
SPECIES. ADAPTABLE
SPECIES. ENDANGERED
SPECIES. PROTECTED

A ENTAL RELEASES
SPIRITUAL AND SOCIAL VALUES
SPOIL HEAPS AND EXCAVATIONS
SPORTS
SQUATTTNC
STANDARDISATION. INTERNATIONAL
STANDARDS OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
STANDARDS OF HOUSING
STANDARDS OF PRIMARY PROTECTION
STANDARDS. EMISSIONS
STANDARDS. INSTALLATION DESIGN
STANDARDS. OPERATING
STANDARDS. PRODUCTS
STAPLE FOODS
STARVATION AND MALNUTRITION
STATE ENTERPRI SEE ‘
STATISTICS AND MATHEMATICS
STATISTICS. ENVIRONMENTAL
STATUS OF WOMEN
STEAM ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION
STEEL AND IRON MANUFACTURE
STEROIDS
STIMULATION FUNDS
STORM SURGES. EEC

STRESSES/STRAINS (PHYSICAL)
STRESSES. URBAN

STRIFE. CIVIL

STRIP MINING

STRUCTURES AND PROPERTIES. CHEMICAL
STRUCTURES. ARCHAEOLOGICAL AND HISTORICAL
STUDIES. PILOT

SUB-TROPICAL ECOLOGY

SUB-TROPICAL ECOSYSTEMS
SUBMERSIBLES

SUBSIDENCE

SUBSIDIES AND FINANCE. HOUSING
SUBSIDIES AND INCENTIVES

 




5350
6445
2821
5750
5740
4480
2844
4680
1860
1120
4290
2470
2700
4820
6820
5080
5081

6282
4070
3810
3701
5040
5030
1370
2600
6960
6990
6900
6471
6840
6800
6810
6785
6790
3070
7001
6460
1963
1723
2713
3440
2050
6240
2433
1960
3030
4870
4420
4132
4061
4060
5560
1855
6471
6472
6473
3745
1243
3081
1350
5640
4030
2340
5320
5370
5321
6137
4870
4 0
4671
5410
1460
1410
1420
1390
1130
4470
4280
4260
6410
3541
7050
6790

SUBJECTS IN ALPHABETIC SEQUENCE

SUBSTANCES. HAZARDOUS

SUBSTANCES. RADIOACTIVE
SUBTERRANEAN WATER

SULPHATES AND SULPHURIC ACID
SULPHUR AND SUL HUR DIOXIDE
SUPERSONIC AIRC FT

SURFACE WATERS ’

SURVEILLANCE 0F POLLUTANTS
SURVEYS. PHOTOGRAPHIC AND MAPPING
SURVEYS. SOCIAL

SURVEYS. TRANSPORT

SWAMPS AND WETLANDS

SYLVICULTURE AND FORESTRY
SYNERGlSTIC EFFECTS

SYNTHETIC VERSUS NATURAL PRODUCTS
SYSTEMS. PROTECTION

SYSTEMS. WARNING

TANKS. SEPTIC
TANNING OF LEATHER

TAR DISTILLATION

TAR SANDS

TARGET EXPOSURE

TARGET. POLLUTANT

TAXATION. FINANCE AND CURRENCY
TAXONOMY j

TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC ADVANCEMENT
TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

TECHNIQUES. THERMAL INSULATION
TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT
TECHNOLOGIES. ALTERNATIVE
TECHNOLOGIES. LOW—LEVEL

TECHNOLOGY

TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER

TECHNOLOGY. MARINE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND RADIO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERFERENCE
TEMPERATE ECOLOGY

TEMPERATE ECOSYSTEMS

TEMPERATE FORESTS & WOODLANDS
TEMPORARY SETTLEMENTS

TENURE OF LAND

TERATOGENS

TERRESTRIAL BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
TERRESTRIAL ECOLOGY

TERRITORIAL LIMITS

TESTING AND EXTRAPOLATION. TOXICOLOGICAL
TESTS. DRIVING

TEXTILE AND CLOTHING INDUSTRY .
TEXTILE FIDRE‘ISYNTHETIC) MANUFACTURE
TEXTILE PRODUCTION ~ PLANT FIBRES
THALLIUM

THEMATIC MAPPING

THERMAL INSULATION TECHNIQUES
THERMAL POLLUTION

THERMODYNAMICS

TIDAL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION
TIDAL WAVES. SEISMIC

TIDES AND SEA LEVELS .
TIME A MOTION STUDIES - WORK STUDY
TIN

TOBACCO MANUFACTURE

TOURISM

TOXIC CHEMICALS

TOXIC WASTES

TOXICITY

TOXICITY OF PESTICIDES
TOXICOLOGICAL TESTING AND EXTRAPOLATION
TOX Y

TRACE

TRACE MATERIALS AND RESIDUES
TRADE ADVANTAGES

TRADE BURDENS

TRADE PRACTICES. DISCRIMINATORY
TRADE. INTERNATIONAL

TRADITIONAL CULTURES

TRAFFIC CONTROL. AIR

TRAFFIC CONTROL. ROAD

TRAFFIC ENGINEERING

TRAFFIC NOISE

TRAILERS AND CARAVANS

TRAINING AND EDUCATION. ENVIRONMENTAL
TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY

3450
3640
3750
1340
4190
1942
4291
4290
4220
4200
4450
4170
4180
4440
4240
2153
4510
3310
4165
4221

. 2341

2861
5364
6690
2716
4580
1030
1961
1721
2712
1243
3610

TRANS ITIONAL SE’I'I'LEMBVTS
TRANSMISSION LINES.AERIALS AND PYLONS
TRANSMISSION OF ELECTRICITY
TRANSPIRATION AND EVAPORATION
TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS
TRANSPORT OF SEDIMENT
TRANSPORT PLANNING

TRANSPORT SURVEYS

TRANSPORT SYSTEMS. INTEGRATED
TRANSPORT SYSTEMS. MASS
TRANSPORT. AIR

TRANSPORT. FREIGHT

TRANSPORT. PUBLIC

TRANSPORT. RAIL

TRANSPORT. ROAD

TRANSPORT. URBAN

TRANSPORT. WATERWAYS
TRANSPORTABLE HOMES
TRANSPORTATION
TRANSPORTATION. PIPELINE

‘TRAVEL

TREATMENT OF DRINKING WATER
TREATMENT OF WASTE WATER
TREATMENT PLANTS

TREES

TRENDS. LONG-TERM AND FORECASTING
TRENDS. LONG-TERM GLOBAL
TROPICAL ECOLOGY

TROPICAL ECOSYSTEMS
TROPICAL FORESTS

TSUNAMI (SEISMIC SEA WAVES)
TUNNELS

U

UNDER‘PRIVILEGED PEOPLES
UNSATURATED HYDROCARBONS
UPPER ATMOSPHERE POLLUTION
URANIUM
URBAN AREAS
URBAN DECAY
URBAN DESIGN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
URBAN GROWTH
URBAN MICRO-CLIMATE EFFECTS
PARKS AND GARDENS
' REDEVELOPMENT
STRESSES
TRANSPORT
USE OF LAND
UTILISATION OF ELECTRICITY
UTILITIES AND SERVICES. PUBLIC

V

VALLEYS

VALUE OF LAND

VALUES. AMENITY

VALUES. SOCIAL AND SPIRITUAL
VALVES. METERS AND GAUGES
VANADIUM

VANDALISM AND CRIME
VHII‘OR (DISEASE)
VEGETATIONAL TYPES
VEHICLE DESIGN CRITERIA
VEHICLE EMISSIONS. MGR
VEHICLE INSPECTION
VEHICLE LICENCING
VEHICLE REGISTRATION
VEHICLES. ABANDONED
VEHICLES. OFF-ROAD
VENTILATION

VETERINARY MEDICINE
VETERINARY PRODUCTS
VIBRATION

VIROLGGY

VOLCANOES

 




WARNIN
WASTE
WASTE
WASTE
WASTE
WASTE
WASTE
WASTE
WASTE.
WASTE.
WASTES

WASTES.
WASTES.
WASTES.
WASTES.
WASTES.
WASTES.
WASTES.
WASTES.
WASTES.
WASTES.
WASTES.

WATER
WATER

SUBJECTS IN ALPHABETIC SEQUENCE

I!

2095
2740

ZONING
ZOOLOGY

G SYSTEMS
ASSIMILATION CAPACITIES
CONVERSION TECHNIQUES
DISPOSAL. ANIMAL
DISPOSAL. MUNICIPAL
HEAT
RECOVERY
WATER TREATMENT
CHEMICAL DEGREDATION OF
SOLID—DISPOSAL TECHNIQUES

AGRICULTURAL
INDUSTRIAL LIQUID
INDUSTRIAL SOLID
LIQUID

LIQUID. DISPOSAL TECHNIQUES
MAN-MADE

PLASTIC AND POLYMER
RADIOACTIVE
SLAUGHTERHOUSE
SOLID

TOXIC

FLOW

WATER POLLUTION AND CONTAMINATION
WATER QUALITY

WATER

RESOURCES

WATER RETICULATION SYSTEMS
WATER SALINATION
WATER-AIR INTERACTION

WATER.
WATER.
WATER.
WATER.
WATER.
WATER.
WATER.

CONSERVATION AND COLLECTION
DRINKING

STORM

SUBTERRANEAN

SURFACE

TREATMENT FOR DRINKING
TREATMENT OF WASTE

WATERLOGGED LANDS

WATERS
WATERS

. COOLING
INTERNATIONAL

WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
WATERSHEDS. SHARED

WATERS

IDE DEVELOPMENTS

WATERWAYS TRANSPORT

WATERWAYS.

INLAND

WAVE EROSION

WAVES.

SEISMIC. TIDAL

WEATHER AND CLIMATE

HEATHER AND CLIMATE MONITORING
HEATHER FORECASTING. LONG-RANGE
HEATHER/CLIMATE MODIFICATION
HEATHER. SHORT-RANGE FORECASTING
HEED CONTROL AGENTS. HERBICIDES
HEEDS

HELLBEING AND HEALTH

HETLANDS AND SHAMPS

HEALING. COMMERCIAL

WILDLIFE; ' ‘

"H‘IN‘IT ELECTRIC POHER GENERATION
HINDS
WOMEN'S STATUS

HOOD PRESERVATION

HOOD PRODUCTS -

HOODLANDS AND FORES'I‘S. 1EMPERATE

HOOL PROCESSING

WORK STUDY - TIME AND MOTION STUDIES
WORKERS. MIGRANT

WORKING LEVELS. DERIVED

WORKING. OPF~PEAK AND SHIFT

WORKS AND BUILDINGS. GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS. CONSTRUCTION

HORLD HERITAGE

WRECKS AND CRASHES

 




July 8, 1970

Miss Christine Stevens. President
Animal welfare Institute

P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station
New York, N. Y. 10017

Dear Miss Stevens:

The address of your organization which appears on your letterhead

is the one we list in the newlybpublished sixth edition of the Encyh
clopedia of Associations.

I am sending you of capy of your entry and hope that you will find

it correct and up-to-date.
Very truly yours,
ENCYCLOPEDIA OF ASSOCIATIONS

WSW

(Miss) Mary E. Wilson
Associate Editor

 




see 5 o
'H-‘elation.of
~9r.al well
" I‘eollegiate ,
'iucos films
aches; sponsors
makes avail-
nducts philan-
’it‘fli with such
litiires; teen-
mic aspects;
.:13 library
-...1mbling,
'Ezenship;
wads; Public
Crusader
‘."'.’,C.T.U.
cil (ages I3-29);

“ting: Annual.

nce through
bimonthly.

if: Temperance
tague.

PROGRAMS
in 6284585

II50), official

public agencies
2“:r'ofessional acti-
rablems by ex-
:«naards which will
::'ch and coopera-
‘trnational Study;
ram Evaluation.
Social Work;
_.,olications: (l)
alcoholism Treat-
«incial Alcoholism
wetter, irregular;
ormerly: (I956)

'1' Meeting:
Hartford, Conn.

caboose the liquor

e: of beverage
beverages.

’ing: Annual.

"r‘ion on the nature
the use of such
in: Scientific

 

AM SHOE AND GLOVE EXCHANGE

ST—IIS Langford Phone: (7I3) 846—6685
Collvgc Station, Tex. 77840

Dr. Richard E. Wainerdi, Dir. ~

Founded 1959 - Members I00. Free information exchange to facilitate
of unneeded shoes and gloves by amputees. Attempts to match
ho need the opposite shoe or glove, who are about the

and who have reasonably similar tastes. All mailings of
loves are between the amputees matched. The Exchange

swaps
amputees W
some 0901
shoes or 9

serves both men and women, children and adults.

AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO

“I East 92nd St. ANIMALS (ASPCA)

New York, N.Y. I0028 Phone: (2I2) 876-7700
William Mapel, Administrative Vice-President

Founded I866 - Members I0,000 - Staff 300. To provide effective
means for the prevention of cruelty to animals; to enforce all laws

{or the protection of animals; to promote a general appreciation and
practice of humanity toward and kindness to animals; to maintain
shelters for lost, strayed or unwanted animals; to maintain a hospital
where medical and surgical care can be provided for ill or iniured
animals. Conducts educational program in the care of animals, for
children, and adults. Provides free hospital and clinic service for
animals whose owners cannot afford to pay. Maintains an Animalport
at Kennedy International Airport to care for airborne animals before,
after, and between flights; campaigns for legislation to improve animal
welfare. Activities centered in New York area. Departments: Shelter
Operations; License; Humane Work; Humane Education; Public Relations;
Fund Raising and Special Activities; Hospital and Clinic. Publication:
Animal Protection, 3/year. Convention/Meeting: Annual - always
May, New York City.

ANIMAL MEDICAL CENTER

62nd St. 8. East River Drive Phone: (2I2) 838-8I00

New York, N.Y. I002]

Dr. Robert J. Tashiian, Director

Founded I9I0 - Members I200. To conduct research into the nature of
animal disease for the benefit of both animal and human health; to
provide the best possible treatment for sick animals; to educate veterin-
arians in the specialty of small animal medicine and in comparative
medical research and dissemination of knowledge. Research includes
infectious disease, cardiovascular disease, cancer, and metabolic and
endocrine disease. Formerly: (I959) New York Women's League for
Animals.

WELFARE INSTITUTE (AWI)
P.O. Box 3492
Grand Central Station
New York, N.Y. IO0I7
Dorothy Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant
Founded I95I - Staff 2. To promote humane treatment of animals,
particularly animals used in research and medicine. Publication:
Information Report, quarterly; also publish manuals: e.g. Comfortable
Quarters for Laboratory Animals, Basic Care of Experimental Animals,
Animals and Their Legal Rights, Animal Expressions, First Aid and Care
of Small Animals (for primary teachers) and Humane Biology Proiects
(for secondary teachers). Holds annual meeting.

BlDE—A—WEE HOME ASSOCIATION (Animal)

4I0 East 38th St.

New York, N.Y. IO0I6

Founded I903. Humane society for the rescue and adoption of dogs
and cats. Maintains hospitals, clinics, pet cemetery, and country home
for animals. Activities centered in New York State. Publication:

 

Bide—A-Wee Home Association Newsletter, monthly.

- ice 'errlngo , ' -
Founded I957 - Staff I. Works to reduce the number (if I‘
animals by educating pet owners to prevent the birth of kit
puppies which they do not personally want to keep; subsidi
of spaying for lower-income pet owners; assists animal shel
program to require that animals adopted from them be alter
in slaughterhouse reform, banning of rodeos, elimination of
destruction, and boycotts of fur and leather articles. War
group of volunteer representatives in I9 states. Publicatio
Actionline, monthly; (2) Members' Report, semiannual. Hi
meetings.

NATIONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE
509 Madison Ave.

New York, N.Y. I0022

Helen E. Jones, President

Founded I959 - Staff 4. To prevent cruelty to and suffer
animals and to advance "humane education." Publication
Report, 3/yr. Convention/Meeting: Annual.

NATIONAL DOG REGISTRY (NDR) (Animal)

227 Stebbins Rd. Phone: (9I4) I
Carmel, N.Y. I05I2

Mrs. Dagmar Swanson, Mgr.

Founded I966 - Staff 2 (voluntary). Seeks ”to reduce tt
stolen dogs and expedite the identification of lost, straye
or dead dogs." Since a dog loses its identity as soon as
dog tag, for whatever reason, the Registry encourages av
their social security number tattooed in the right groin a
permanent identification and, for a small fee, to register
with the central registry. Officials in the nation's labor
enforcement agencies, humane societies, and other dog-l
operate with the Registry by forwarding to it the tattooe'
on dogs that come into their custody. The Registry can

owners who have placed information on file.

SAVE A CAT LEAGUE (Animal)

245 West 25th St. Phone: (2I2) ‘
New York, N.Y. I000]

Judith S. Scofield, Pres.

Founded I957 - Members 300. Persons interested in resc
finding homes for stray and abandoned cats, primarily in

City. Serves as clearinghouse for information about cat

and boarding facilities; sponsors public education progra

food for starving cats. Has instituted a "Cat Sitting Ser
temporary care of pets. Committees: Rescue Work; Edu
ment. Convention/Meeting: Annual.

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION (S.
P. O. Box 37I9

Georgetown Station

Washington, D.C. 20007

Christine Stevens, Secretary

"To protect animals through legislation." Disseminates
through correspondence, to mailing list of persons inter
of proposed state and federal legislation for the protec

KEEP AMERICA BEAUTIFUL (KAB) (Anti-Litter)

99 Park Ave.

New York, N.Y. IO0I6

Allen H. Seed, Jr., Exec. Vice Pres.

Founded I953 - Members IOO - Staff II. Public serv
promoting prevention and elimination of litter from art
areas, highways, waterways, sports and recreation are'
lications: (I) Idea Service; (2) KAB Reports.

 




~ Gale Research
Book Tawer
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Gentlemen:

A recent check of the Encyclopedia cf Associations
at the Libraryof Congress indicates that you have an
old address for tbs Animal Welfare Institute. The
address on this letterhead is tbs correct ona, and we
hope you will use it in future editions.

, Enclosed are the last three annual reports of the
, Animal'WEIfara Institute for your information. Since
we hava not been lacatad at 22 East 17th Street for
seven years, we ara concernad that you.may not have
othEr up-to-date information you may need. Let us knaw
if you have any questions.

3 Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Pre sident

Encloaures
Gsﬂmc

 




CS I called the Library of Congress (They
have a regular number for telephone inquiries
which we put in the round file) The Sam called
back to say that the only'book he was able to

find was called the EE;§Elggggig_gﬁ_A§snaiaiiqn§o
There is a section in is ook which gives
Social Welfare Organizations and AWI is listed
there at the old address. The book is published
by Gale Research, Book Tower, Detroit, Michigan

48226.

 




JAAA.17,19?A

EBA, AAtkmA ‘33. Cooper
GALE ALAAAAGE COMPARE
150 AAAt 50th.SﬁAAAt

Eew York, Eew Eork 10028

Dear AAA anper,

Ehank jou far your lAtAAA AAAAAAting anAAAA
tien on publications AhiAh.AA AAAAA likA AA AAA
mwre widely circulated by being AAAAAAAAA in A
standard AAfAAAnAA book which AAA pAApoAA to publish»

UndeA aeparate cover, AAAAAA of AAA mAnAAls:
Etudzingw Eur Fellaw Jammalsa b3 fAnAAt P Aalkerg‘
AumAnAHAiclos; ». ts, commilAA by Animal Welfare
institute; ,* AAA AAA CAAA or SmAll Animalsg
by Ernest AA EAEEM ,EAEAW bAAn E AAAAAEAA EoA year
perusalc

A listing of all at our publications is AAAIAAAA.
PleAAA AA not hAAitAte to cAll on AA AAA further ianAmA~
tion or capieA Gf those mAnAAEA AAAt inteAAsﬁ you.

‘Ehﬁ premise 0f an anthalcgy AAAAA on Aound AAAN
AeAAch is well Ecuud anA we cengratulatA you on your
idea and fallowing thAoughA

SinceAely,

(Ara. ChAAleA A. Osaka)
AacvetAAy to AAA. StevenA

 




Gale Research Company

PUBLISHERS OF REFERENCE BOOKS, DICTIONARIES AND DIRECTORIES

150 East 50th Street 0 New York, N. Y. 10022
PLaza 1-3033 (area 212)

June 5, 1970

Dear Sir:

This letter concerns what may well be a worthwhile
informational opportunity for your organization. Before I
go further, let me emphasize that no cost is involved.

We are compiling material for an extensive reference
series on subjects of importance to the general public. The
books are intended for use in public libraries, where they
would be consulted on the premises or borrowed for home
reading.

A wide variety of topics would be dealt with, each
in an individual volume. To give you an idea of the variety,
typical subjects include: mental and physical health...
hobbies and recreation...retirement p1anning...investing...

family relationships...child guidance...home maintenance and
repairs...cooking, sewing, and other departments of homemaking

..conservation...pollution control...prenata1 and postnatal
care...diet and exercise...automobile maintenance...safe
driving...drug abuse...problems of the elderly...and, to repeat,
many other subjects.

Each book would be an anthology of helpful material
based on sound research by government agencies and by organ-
izations such as yours. It is quite possible you have
published one or more booklets or pamphlets which you would
like to see more widely circulated by being reprinted in a
standard reference book.

Any printed material you feel might be appropriate
should be sent to the undersigned. Of course there will be
no charge or fee of any kind, and you will receive due credit
for any of your publications which are used.

Sincerely,

MM

Arthur B. Cooper
GALE RESEARCH COMPANY

ABC/mew

 




9
ESTABLISHED
1934

414-326-3126

gbmatnrs (lube: of
\gttt ﬂattriall

EDITEDHY
C H 808 DU VALL PH 0
AND
WAYNE i KRFPEL, E'U D

‘39

Ehuuxiurs (ﬁnal: to
glint gﬁilms

EDlTED BY
MARY F HORKHEIMER
JOHN C DIFFOR. M. ED

N L) PHILIPSON, PH. 0.

‘5?

1iﬁbucumw (Emih: to
ﬁrst (ﬁilmstﬁpa

EDITEDBY

MAFY ; HORKHEIMER

JOHNC [)IFFOR,M ED
AND

w D PHILGPSON,PH D

3?
Ehurators (Euibe in ﬁrst
91mm an?) Uiben

ﬂaterialn

ED‘TED av
JAMES L BERGER, 8.5
AND
WALTER A WITTICH, PH. D

.M .L-.S§M-.._.___
L

/ Elemnﬁnrg ﬁlm than @uibc to
/ Jr" CIurriculum materials
l

EDITCD BY
FNTPlC'AH SUTTL ES M B A
KAT iLLEN SUTTLES NEHMER

AND
ROBERT D KREY, PH. D
,r

m.

:ﬁhu‘raturn QSuihe in gift"

JScience Cﬂqaftrfalu
, EDITEDHY
MANY H smmsmov.
AND
JOHN w PENN-ER PH D

Q50

ﬁhututors (6mm in are:
ﬁgural AStubiw ﬁatrriull
EDITED BY
lrmcm H suTn Es, M. U A
srtvm A SUTTL ES
AND
RUSE LLA LINSKIE, PH. D

‘3)”
Iihurntum 05mm to Exit"
@uihnncr (materiala
Eon [7 BY
VAR» H SATFRSTPOM
AND
SAIL, i" FCHWELL ED U
(‘5‘
Ziburuiurs (Euibe to iFrcc
Tinmlth. 3‘1Inmitle ’ﬁbucation
\ L "9
am“) licrrrntinn materials
ED no BY
FOLEY A HQHKHE‘ME‘? 8 5

AND
LDU'SE ALLE’r’ PH D

P. H. SUTTLES
Publisher

Reply to:
Patricia Horkheimer Suttles

$211331an ﬁrngreaa Somme, ﬁlm. 285 pm Dave

Randolph, Wisconsin 53956

214 CENTER STREET

RANDOLPH, WISCONSIN 53956
January 10 1978

Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

Gentlemen:

The ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS
is a bound book containing listings of booklets, pamphlets,
maps, charts, posters, books, exhibits, which various firms and
agencies are willing to furnish schools and libraries without
charge.

This ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS
covers the elementary level only, but it does include a section
on "Teacher Reference and Professional Growth Materials."

We are now preparing a new annual edition of this service
to include new materials and to delete listings of items no
longer available. We would appreciate your sending us, for
listing in the publication, any free materials you issue which
you think would enrich school and library materials services.

No charge or obligation is placed on the issuing agency
other than furnishing with reasonable promptness, the materials
requested during the next school year. 'Your wishes relative to
any limitations or instructions will be included in the listing.
The issuing agencies retain control of the distribution of the
materials.

We are enclosing a listing sheet which we would appreciate
your filling-out and returning to us as soon as possible.

Thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely yours,

\h—Ku lagLsL \‘A X u_m$;f;,

Patricia Horkheimer Suttles
PHS:lw Editor
Enc.

P.S.
When replying, please reply to me at my home address:
285 Park Drive, Randolph, Wisconsin 53956.

 




,
v‘
\_ Y
'5 r
. .

., . - g 5,..."
10.1. ’///'{’ i I: /

ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS

The following information is desired for your listing in the ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE
TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS for the school year 1978- 79.

NEW MATERIALS: ' 4 »
Kindly add new items to this list. IMPORTANT: Send us copies of ALL materials

listed, for our permanent file.

Please return this sheet to Patricia Horkheimer Suttles, Editor, ELEMENTARY TEACHERS
GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS, 285 Park Drive, Randolph, Wisconsin 53956.

CORRECTIONS:
Please make necessary corrections to current listings shown below.

 

AVAILABILITY:
Cross out items no longer available.

RESTRICTIONS OR INSTRUCTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION: (Please answer all questions)
Single copies X Limit of copies
Available in classroom quantities? Yes E No
Available to professional staff only? Yes Y, No
Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes gV No
Suggested grade level i i ’ ‘
Distribution restricted to certain geographical areas? (Specify) {ﬂ'c

 

 

 

 

', .

Any other restrictions? ,c, .
Available to schools? Yes / No To libraries? Yes xXV No
Available to schoolsxand libraries in Canada? Yes E No

In Australia? Yes' r‘ No

If available elsewhere, please state where available vaviiriiir

 

COMPLETE ADDRESS TO WHICH REQUESTS SHOULD-BE DIRECTED: (Please use your zip code)
Fill in:

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washinton,D.C. 20007

YOUR MATERIAL WAS LISTED IN THE 19,777 EDITION OF THE ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE
CURRICULUM MATERIALS AS FOLLOWS.

7' I . ,/ If, ; ,,.
«Jae/1w w arctic/1.41 _ Jaw“

1‘11 is: l i (11:1 11;: 92111213l: r1[)})|“()\l(2(l 1))! :

[J 7““ 43/7117)"? 37“ , MAMA/1k; DMZ/0v; .[I’W’IYZQ I E! 1 i 2, 51/?)f 202 3} 7'2 7 )52.
/

Name Position . Date Telephone Number

 




YOU A?? ggERaEe good to your dog, you will have a faithful anddliging
friend. This leaflet, for primary grades, tells how to Be (12 co y
your dog. It contains pictures suitable for coloring. 1mg offigial
free to professional staff only. Request must be written on. '.~ _
stationery. Available world—wide.

‘Animal Welfare Institute

‘*KITTENS AND CATS_' ‘ ' 1‘ . *a . _‘

Every cat is a little bit different from every other cat, but

each one wants a kind Owner. ~Thisleaflet, designed for use in the

primary grades, tells h0w to treat kittens and cats. ~It contains

pictures suitable for Coloring. ‘Single copies are free.to members of

the professional staff who make their requeSt on offiCial stationeryg

Available world-wide. ‘. '
Animal Welfare Institute

‘*GOOD KIND LION

Suppose an enormous lion suddenly appeared right in front of you,
‘What would you do?...Well, there probably wouldn't be much you could
do, except sit tight and hOpe that he was a good kind lion. And,
that's pretty well what all Smaller creatures have to do when you
suddenly appear in front of them—~they all just hope that you are a
good kind lion, too. This leaflet for primary grades tells a few of
-the things that you, as a good kind lion, can do in caring for your
‘gpets. Single Copies are-free to members of the professiOnal staff

who make their request on official stationery. Available world—wide.
' .Animal Welfare Institute'l - ‘ . '

*BEFRIENDINQ ANIMALS - w <.
_ Since children have a natural interest in animals, it is not
difficult to teach kindness to animals.' The author of this article
gives a national and international View of humane education and its
relatedness to classroom activities. Suggestions are given for '
rcorrelating humane education.with science and the arts., Primary
__ .Single copies are available-free. -Available world-wide.
«Animal Welfare Institute ” n ' -- ' -

"l . h" " .._. ,... ‘ g
- , r; Ir”, . . ,. . ,L/ ’V\/. a '
tUu? Mium’umluwalzc b l

j

./' 7 n ' ﬂ .{ﬁ ’7 (US/i; w) {/"llqebaéﬁf (SOIL/02171421.! “ 1/
(AA/7”“ from, Mt. -» L -

I
F

~ First Aid and Care of Small Animals Designed for use in primary and
secondary schools. 46 pages, illustrated. One c0py free Upon request
to teachers, librarians, scout leaders, humane societies; to others-$1.00.

 




ESTABLISHED
1934

414-326-3126

gnu-amt: anex 0!
gr” ﬂatniulu

EDITED BY
C. R. "808" DU VALL, PH. D.

W
ﬁbucatnrs (ﬁnale to

3113's: gﬁilms

EDITED BY
MARY F. HORKHEIMER
JOHN C. DIFFOR, M. ED.

W. D. PHILIPSON, PH. D.

‘3’

ﬁhuwtnm (Emits to
glitz: <:gifilnmtripn

EDITED BY
MARY F. HORKHEIMER
JOHN C. DIFFOR, M. ED,

AND
W. D. PHILIPSON, PH.vD,

gap
grammars (gains to gifts:
gunk: am) £7ti

Cﬂmateﬁals

EDITED BY
JAMES L. BERGER, B. S.

WALTER A. WITTICH, PH. 0.

3:?
'ﬁhucutnrs (Drab: (Emilie tn
gﬁree {attaching 9mg

EDITED BY
PATRICIA H. SUTTLES, M. B. A.
KATHLEEN SJJTTLES NEHMER

MICHAEL WELLER, B, A.
AND
ROBERT D. KREY, PH. D.

3?
ﬁhuwtum (gum: in (Hue
égciente cmzxterialu
EDITED BY
MARY H. SATERSTROM

AND
JOHN W. RENNER, PH. D.

339
ﬁhuwiurn (Dufﬁe in @132:
(Social ﬁtuhiea ,ﬂinterials

EDITED BY
PATRICIA H. SUTTLES, M. B. A.
STEVEN A. SUTTLES
AND
ROSELLA-LINSKIE, PH. C.

“:9"
ﬁhurators 05mm in 311,118

ﬁnihnncc Cﬂﬂaterials
EDITED BY
MARY H. SATERSTROM
AND
GAIL F, FARWELL, ED. D.

33‘
ﬁbucaxiors (Emits to gﬁrcc

312211111, Idhgsiml ﬁhucnﬁan

mu?! [ﬂecrmtimx gianterials
EDITEDBY
FOLEY A HORKHEIMER, s 5
AND
LOUIS E. ALLEY, PH 0,

Patricia H. Suttles
Publisher

gilhmzdnra ﬁrngrezs ﬁerhiw, E 11:.
214 CENTER STREET
RANDOLPH, WISCONSIN 53956

November 3, 1978

p‘ Rem\nde\:5:83
xe(‘\a\s La’Qev
Animal Welfare Institute Macewe W; l5 1b“-
BOX 3650 Re 08(39me

Washington DC 20007 Th3“

Dear Sponsor:

The 88th edition of EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS is
nowibeing prepared. Your listing as it appeared in the 87th
edition of the INDEX is attached to the enclosed Listing Sheet.
If the material(s) described will again be available please sign
and return the Listing Sheet. Be sure to make any additions,
corrections, or deletions to this listing. Please inform us of
any additional free materials you offer which you believe will
aid junior-senior high schools, colleges, and libraries. Enclose
a separate Listing Sheet for each new item and two copies of each
piece of material for our permanent files.

The EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS contains listings of
pamphlets, books, booklets, magazines, newsletters, leaflets, maps,
charts, posters, pictures, displays, and exhibits which various
firms and agencies are willing to furnish schools and libraries
without charge. We are sorry but we cannot list catalogs but we
are happy to list individual free items from these sources. The
INDEX is revised annually to include new materials and delete
materials no longer available.

There is no charge or obligation placed upon you as an
issuing agency, other than furnishing with reasonable promptness
the material requested by school and library officials during the
next school year (1979-80). The issuing agencies distribute the
materials.

Thank you for your cooperation,

6%.). 0.0.19»

Bob DuVall, Editor

EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
1520 Berkshire Drive

South Bend, Indiana 46614

Telephone: 219-291-6485

Our deadline for receipt of copy is December 15, 1978.

 




LISTING SHEET for ' g -\ ‘ _ , Our Reference No.

EDUCATORS INDEX p___E FREE MATERIALS I ‘ A L9 (JDN'L \ C) ‘

 

 

 

The following info rmatiOn is needed for materials you would like to have.
considered for listing i_n the EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS.

Please return this sheet to: Bob DuVall, Editor
‘ EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
1520 Berkshire Drive
South Bend, Indiana 46614

 

MATERIALS: . Please list all items that we may include in the EDUCATORS
QNDEX OF FREE MATERIALS. _ Please send two (2) copies* of all
materials for our permanent files.

 

RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION: (Please answer all questions)

Single copies only 1_1___ A limit of ' copies

. Available in classroom quantities? Yes , i No

Available to professional staff only? Yes No _

Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes NoV
Distribution restricted to specific geographical area? (Specify)

 

 

Any other restriCtions on distribution or limitations on quantity?

 

Available to schools? Yes __ No I To libraries? Yes
Available to Schools and libraries in Canada? Yes ,No
Available to schools and libraries in Australia? Yes ' No
Available world—wide? Yesﬂ_~_w No

COMPLETE ADDRESS TO WHICH REQUESTS SHOULD BE DIRECTED:

 

 

 

 

(Please include ZIP code)
Note: Our deadline for receipt of copy is December 15.

This listing sheet approved by:

 

 

Signature " , Position

 

 

Name typed or printed Phone (Area—-Number)

 




 

LISTINGSHEET for .‘ ' ' .. ; ' our Reference No.5

EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS

 

The following information is desired for for your listing in the EDUCATORS

, i'

INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS (88th edition) for the; school year 1979 80.?i2 ;£;gifég” F7

‘1...’_ a, ’2'; “',;" -— - "v
E ‘ ~' « ‘_.:* ~ " ”"3; n; a. . {"71" ' ,1 'r . , 4v" - a J
‘ ' .7 1 u 1. . A .~ ,_ ,_ , -.
‘ . _, 1 4.. ._ n _' “ «.- -. ¢ 1 - .1 :‘f; - ~ 5 ~ _.
\ ,.. 4a., -

Pleasea returnat‘hisnsheﬂet' to: .. Bob Duvall, Editor’: :12 {L ‘g, ~._ 1,: g, f"::" , ~f-‘A Reminder _;
,2 ~21! EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS“ I Must Be
2'.._.;e7‘.‘_,"‘.‘"~_~ :' J 1520 Berkshire Drive 2 :17}; “if“; E—,_ 13:“ Materia .5
' 2 ., "13-5" t South Bend, Indiana; 46614‘85 Recewed ND Later

4v .-.q u
,. .

r”
’
i

r ya 3"

Telephone: (219) 291- 6485 Than December 15th”

 

NEW MATERIALS: Kindly add new items to your list. IMPORTANT - Please send
, . 5 ,‘q , us two (2) copies of all materials for our permanent files.“
,;,Le,fg§ ;_ ; List all new materials on this form,, 3?; 1 w. - . u.

.w ‘ ~_., _ . .
‘I «A

 

.., . 2 >7- 3 - ":- '

o.
n 4 '

* —‘ 3:. mo. . ~ : _ . . , . .

' ' ' '.. I - . ' ~.. .. ,-

~ 5, l.‘
‘1’»! '- 1.-

CORRECTIONS.5

a,

 

" .1
' -. “ . ~. , a. g:
. ~' . .4. f . 4“ ' ‘ 1 ' ‘- "l ‘ . - r ‘ ~_ - ‘2“

-;,4 . ._ . v 0 - - -> ,2 o
- .1 ~11» v
‘ «fl?

AVAILABILITY" Delete item if no longer available.. RETURN FORM TO AEOVE‘XXE g; Kf2'~‘

,5 .‘t‘_ L ‘ .
5 ’ ’ ' ‘ 1,3 "2 “ . n. ‘ .
{o - _'_.‘- ,' - " '" o ' " " 2 ‘ -
. .. r .‘r ,~ o r
N ~ '0 r ‘ '

RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION'I (Please answer all questions)

’2: ..t-:l‘..':; ,

‘;
.d' f. 7.

I‘ 7. ;" , 2. .
1 t r: « ~ ‘:' . f '.v ‘ _ - " -
_ 13 7__ - 11;“:

Single copies only Ef A limit of g 97‘ copies per request
/ "129- _

Available in Classroom quantities2 Yes 3f)(‘. NO~ e‘g_::};;;we2j
Available to professional staff only? Yes .X No-vg=1;¢ ~'-‘

. 1

in ~"’
_._____

Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes ‘JC'-
Distribution restricted to specific geograph1cal area? (Specify)

“ , ._.,

Any other restrictions on distribution or limitations on quantity2

4 . '7 1
,,/ - — 1 ‘ J ‘ . .4.) r ‘ -
7 l K ' ‘ . ~.,

Available to schools? Yes X? 1 No -.~ . To libraries2r Yes 12X
Available to schools and libraries in Canada?. Yes X: " No‘““ 1
Available7to schools and libraries in Australia? Yes _XC 2N0 ‘ '
Available to schoOls and libraries worldfwide2 Yes )(t' No ‘
YOUR MATERIAL WAS LISTED IN THE I978 (87th) EDITION OF .THE8 EDUCATORS INDEX
OF FREE MATERIALS.AS FOLLOWS.L '”“

 

 

 

L VE ORGANISMSW IN HIGH SCHOOL BIOLOGY

Ideas for nonpainful, nonhazardous studies of organisms and mammals
(Single copies of each item are available to professional staff .
world— wide. Request on official stationery.)
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE,
BOX 3650, WASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

 

 

Note:' Please Check address 4 including ZIP eodET”"‘ 3 .
Deadline f or.receipt of copy is December 15,1978.

I

This Listing Sheet app oved by:

(51¢; 1% W
Signaturev.:’ 2 __" 1 ‘-".,1' Fosition '
Christine Stevens) )0?“ g Z7“Z§ 3:

Name typed or printed_ _‘;1;12 .;wt:;tjlquelephonel5(Area- Number).

 

- -n \

 




 

 

 

LISTINCISI‘IEET' for , . . ' .- . - ‘ Our Reference No.

EDUCATORS INDEX 9_F FREE MATERIALS '. [I . _ ‘ _ 19‘ £21,; I K) “

IThe following information is desired fOr for your listing in the EDUCATORS
INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS (88th edition) for the school year l979- 80

 

 

Please return this sheet to: BOb DuVall EditOr ’ , ' a A— kaihder _
. * ' , - 71- , EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS -- , l MustBe .
1520 Berkshire Drive L ' A , . , MateIna .5
South Bend, Indiana 46614 .;I Received N0 Later
Telephone: (219) 291- 6485 ’ Than December 15 thil

 

NEw MATERIALS: Kindly add new items to your list. IMPORTANT - Please send
. us two (2) copies of all materials for our permanent files.
List all new materials on this form.

 

CORRECTIONS: Please make necesSary corrections to current listing shOwn‘beloﬁ.5fIig ‘”.
AVAILABILITY:S Delete item if-no longer available. ‘RETURNIFDRM TO ABOVE.j If

RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTIoNz' (Please answer all questinns)'l

 

Single copies only ' "' A limit Of5 " ' ' VCOpies  per r equeSt
Available in claSsroom quantities?‘ Yes,“‘ No XL. .
Available to professional staff only? Yes” iXC No .
Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes )( No
'Distribution restriCted to speCific geographiCal area? (Specify)

 

Any other restrictions on distribution or limitations on quantity? I
First copy free - any additional copies are $2.00 each
Available to schools? Yes K . No" - To libraries? Yes X Noﬂ .

. Available to schools and libraries in Canada? Yes x:‘ New
Available to schools and libraries in Australia? Yes X. No
Available to schoOls and libraries 'world-I-wide? Yes X‘. No________

YOUR MATERIAL WAS LISTED IN THE 1978 (87th) EDITION OF THE EDUCATORS INDEX
OF FREE MATERIALS AS FOLLOWS: ‘ , . , . , .

 

 

 

'~.~.A AHA” ‘1
Mai—'1‘!”
Wm‘inva—r

% FIRST AID AND CARE OF SMALL ANIMALS
Information regarding care of animals of many types; 46 pages.

'- HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS
9 Various projects designed for use in secondary schools; 41 pages.

w~ '5‘me

7" 17"- "“"" "m 1 m“ 'wm"”" ”fir: ; .
’ (See reverse Slde) ‘ '

 

 

Note:' Please check address # including ZIP code.
Deadline for receipt Of Copy is December_l§,-1978.

Slgnature f; _ . Position-

Christina'Stevens' ‘ ‘ 20; §§7 2333

Name typed or printed__II_ I.e,m_Lf.p Telephone (AreaéNumber)

This Listing Sheet apprOved by:

 

 




LISTING{SHEET for . . I ' v I ' ‘ Our Reference No.-

EDUCATORS INDEX 91-1 FREE MATERIALS ' I . A. ( “9:1 ID

‘The following information is desired for for your listing in the EDUCATORS . '8
INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS (88th edition) for the school year 1979- 80 "ﬂ

 

 

: , g at "
Please return this sheet to: Bob DuVall, Editor '. ‘ ' _' , A Reml“ “d Us}. Be
~ » » ~ _ _ EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS q; Maxerla‘s
1520 Berkshire Drive - ‘ w ‘ ReCeNe
South Bend, Indiana 46614 _ _ , Decem.
Telephone: (219) 291-6485 ’ “ma“

 

NEW MATERIALS: Kindly add new items to your list. -IMPORTANT — Please send .
us two (2) copies of all materials for our permanent files. ’ “., "
List all new materials on this form. » 7 ~ -“ "' '

 

4“ ,.

CORRECTIONS: Please make necessary corrections to current listing shown belowf5:

AVAILABILITY: Delete item if-no longer available; RETURN FORM TO ABOVE
RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION: (Please answer all questions) .;.f{‘

Single copies only A limit of ~ 50 copies per request ' '
Available in classroom quantities? Yes )I No '
Available to professional staff only? Yes “ No )C .
Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes A - No .X
'_Distribution restriCted to specific geOgraphical area? (Specify)

 

Any other restrictions on distribution or limitations on quantity?

 

Available to schools? Yes ){ No SI’ To libraries? Yes.Xv\ No
3 Available to schools and libraries in Canada? 'Yes ){ “ No' ' -
Available to schools and libraries in Australia? Yes ;X No
Available to schoOls and libraries world-wide? YesK No

YOUR MATERIAL WAS LISTED IN THE 1978 (87th) EDITION OF THE EDUCATORS INDEX
. OF FREE MATERIALS AS FOLLOWS: ., V

 

.
t a . ” “ﬂail“;eu -. er.» -a.x~_ . «ﬁ‘ahm _ .beua—W -. A..- “I“. I, u I , _ .HWM
I
-11.” L....

 

,ﬁm.mu.—’-
_ ".4..--

>kLEr’l‘:htiJsS11;:at'let- discusses trapping of animals and is illustrated in color.
’ A limit of 50 copies is available world—wide.

FARE INSTITUTE _ . "
ANIMAL WEL 20007 W

BOX 3650, WASHINGTON D_. C; wwww

,,_.._...,r\wy.,— -Yr-t. ""W
”Mpg—val

; Note:’ Please check address - including ZIP code.
Deadline for receipt Of copy is December 15,1978.

{Lemar   ’ dwar— . M/y

Signature '; .” Position-

Christine'Stevens V 1' a D . 202’*§?7 233317

Name typed Or printedﬁlv 1 g A VHp;_quelephone (Area—Number)

 




LISTING sﬁEET‘for . ‘~ ' . . ' our Reference No.

 

EDUCATORS INDEX _(_)__F FREE MATERIALS ' ' . . ,5 5 [4 (9(07 ’0

IThe following information is desired for for your listing in the EDUCATORS
INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS (88th ed1tion) for Ithe‘ school year 1979- 80‘._ '

Please Treturn this Sheet to:. Dob DuVall Editor ,» ‘ g_
» . “. EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS [* tennis
1520 Berkshire Drive , . “‘3 Ne

South Bend, Indiana 46614 _ . 5 Race C mbe

Telephone: (219) 291-6485 ' ' -‘ha“

 

NEW MATERIALS: Kindly add new items to your list. DIMPORTANT — Please send
us two (2) copies of all materials for our permanent files. I
List all new materials on this form. , . » "

 

CORRECTIONS: Please make necessary corrections to current listing Shown below.

AVAILABILITYi Delete item if no longer available. RETURN FORM TO ABOVE
RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTIONz’ (Please answer all questions)

Single copies only ’ A limit of '"5' ‘ ' copies per'request'
Available in claSsroom quantities? Yes 3( ’No

Available to professional staff only? Yes X: No .
Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes XE- No
Distribution restricted to specific gebgraphical area? (Specify)

 

 

Any other restrictions on distribution or limitations on quantity?

 

Available to schools? Yes 5X No *7 To libraries? Yes Xf No
Available to schools and libraries in Canada? Yes ){’ No ' ‘ -
Available to schools and libraries in Australia? Yes .X _No
Available to schools and libraries world—wide? Yes ){ No

YOUR MATERIAL wAS LISTED IN THE 1978 (87th) EDITION OF THE EDDCATORS INDEX
OF FREE MATERIALS AS FOLLOWS: . 5;, _ A _
,_ w‘a; P. a?

 

 

 

'- . I ,
. 5 - ~ , -, , .~. . . .55 , 5-
...... v; ,._

BETTER NUTRITION STUDIES .
Describes nutrition studies, without the use of the traditional
deprivation approach. Reprint of an article from The American
Biology Teacher. Single copies available world—wide if requested
on official stationery.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE,
BOX 3650,
WASHINGTON D C 20007

W“)... ~..

 

,1. m». .— -
~1 -aw-m«¢~"«m'9"‘"”"” ""

“ma-cw 1v

. Notezl Please check address — including ZIP code.
Deadline for receipt of Copy is December 12,-1978.

This Listing Sheet aEproved by: _. D ééiy .

Signature ‘5 Position-

Christine'Stevens' ' i I 5 )02' 337’ 2333‘???‘

Name typed or printed- _ , I_;v Telephone (Area:Number)_

 

 

 




.,,_. D , 1- 9‘
LISTING SHEET for . 'v ‘ ‘ Our Reference No.

EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS ' I . y ' ‘ ll LPLJ;“]J(:>

 

 

_The following information is desired for for your listing in the EDUCATORS
INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS (88th edition) for the school year 1979- 80. ”

Please return this Sheet to: .Bob DuVall, Editor . " '
~ -ﬂ EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS I
1520 Berkshire Drive 3 “
South Bend, Indiana 46614

I 9
Telephone: (219) 291-6485 “‘2‘

 

NEW MATERIALS: Kindly add new items to your list. IMPORTANT — Please send
us two (2) copies of all materials for our permanent files.
List all new materials on this form. - _ ., —« 1

 

CORRECTIONS: Please make necessary corrections to Current listlng shown below.

‘ AVAILABILITY: Delete Teen if no longer available. RETURN FORM To AEDVE. I ' "

on :4: , y.

~RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION: (Please answer all questions)

Single copies only A limit of M ' copies per'request‘
. Available in classroom quantities? Yes X No
Available to professional staff only? Yes X: No _
. Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes )C- No
‘Distribution restricted to specific geographical area? (Specify)

 

Any other restrictions on distribution or limitations on quantity?

 

Available to schools? Yes X No To libraries? Yes X No
_ Available to schools and libraries in Canada? 'Yes XIXV No
Available to schools and libraries in Australia? Yes .X No
Available to schools and libraries world-wide? Yes )( No

YOUR MATERIAL WAS LISTED IN THE 1978 (87th) EDITION OF THE EDUCATORS INDEX
_ 9__E FREE MATERIALS As EDLLowS: , .. A .

 

 

 

M w W... ' k ‘r.wu- “WWW“
ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL OVER SCIENCE FAIR PROJECTS = ’77"
CANADA'S EXPERIENCE WITH STUDENT USE OF LIVING ANIMALS
STATEMENT ON ANIMALS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS ,

A series of pamphlets dealing with the use, care, and treatment of living
animals used in school biology and science classes. Single copies avail-
able world—wide if requested on official stationery.
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE,

BOX 3650, WASHINGTON, D. C.

”*1 Mp”, .«v ~——~‘ a.- e— w.-
-__._.—....—u—-—.—w——~q-vs. \W _~:W.. "'

 

. ., ,. .... .W,mgun "m

a We—nwavwv. .. . . . _ , 1—:—

_Note: Please check address - including ZIP code.
“' Deadline for receipt of copy is December 1;, 1978.

T?Z:i£e'afov:d by: A .. /Aaﬂ ‘1 ﬂ/z/V

'—‘7

Signature '; Position .7 Date

CDT-iatiné Stevens 20 2.337133 3 .

Name typed or printed‘ “A; . ‘91. Telephone (AreaeNumber)_,.

 

 




 

 

 

Dear Freebie Supplier:

I have enclosed for your review a recent copy of
Freebies Magazine. This publication is a monthly, paid
subscription magazine ($6/year), which reports on items
available to the general public without charge (other
than minimal postage and handling costs.)

If the format of Freebies meets with your approval,
I would like to receive a sample of the material(s)
listed below so that we can evaluate it for inclusion
in an upcoming issue.

Please fill out and return the accompanying PRESS
REQUEST card along with the free material(s).

In order to keep Freebies current, we would appreciate
your handling this request as soon as possible.

Sincerely,

Jéén Mangu;;%%22::é?6é‘2//

Managing Editor

PLEASE SEND THE FOLLOWING MATERIAL Qﬁiéﬂfza gﬁZQEE Q g 1

WW

 

 

210 W. De .La Guerra 0 R0. Box Y 0 Santa Barbara, CA 93102 0 (805) 9651832

 

 

 




 

The Great OUtdoors opens its arms to you in a new feature
; section of outdoorsy offers on page 1 O.

USING THE OLD BEAN - Find out
how the vitamin-rich bean can be
the main attraction at your meal-
time entertainment on page 7.

- LEARN THE SYSTEM - Charlie-Brown
. and the characters from Peanuts
explain all about the American
economic system in the booklet
* _ offered on page 20.

THE LATEST RAOOUET - Discover

. why racquetball is the hottest new
sport on the 0.8. sports scene with
the rule book and guide featured
on page 8.

: CHANGE YOUR SPOTS - Remove

' stains easily and get the most out
at your washer and dryer with the
into offered on page 18.

 

FIREWOOD FREEBIE - The U.S. _

Forest Service has an after that you _ ,u

f can really warm up to. Find out I
about free firewood on page 10.

 

 




 

FREEBIES

" FREEBIES Phiiosoh « 

 

 

Freebies job is to find, investigate
and report—for the~ interest and ben-
efit 0f its readers—~the best free and
for-asmall—postage—and—handling-fee
offers available. The editors screen
offers carefully before they are pub—
lished to make sure that the item
offered is as described and that the
company or organization makingthe

offer is prepared to honor requests
from FREEBIES readers

In this time of rising costs—print-
ing, postage. salaries—you will find '-
that some offers require a small fee
for postage and handling or a self—
addressed, stamped envelope. We
have kept the offers to only those
that do not exceed $100.

Companies are anxious for you to
try their products and are interested
in helping the consumer wade

' through a myriad of information.

That is why they make these offers to
the public. We appreciate their con-
tinued support and cooperation,
and,if we all try to work together.
hopefully, the offers will continue.

 

How To Get The Most
Out of FREEBIES

FREEBIES should be thought of by
our readers as a tool and as is the case
with any tool there‘s a right way and
a wrong 'Way to use it. By observing
these few basic do’s and don'ts. you'll
get the free offers you order more
quickly—with fewer delays and hassles.

1) WRITE THE SOURCE. Every article
lists the name and address where you
can obtain the freebie. Please do not

‘ send your requests to FREEBIES.

. 2) SELECT CAREFULLY. Make your
selections thoughtfully. almost as if
you were buying frOm a mail order
catalog. because in a sense you are.
Every item you send for costs you at
least 15¢ for postage alone. It can add
up. So be choosey. Send for those
things you really want. Freebies are a
wonderful bonanza. but. if abused,
they‘ll quickly disappear.

3) FOLLOW DIRECTIONS. Precisely.
We‘ve simplified our directions by out—
lining at the conclusion of each
article exactly what to ask for, what to
send and where to send your request.
If a source making an offer wants
your request on a postcard. send a

postcard. If they ask for a SASE (self-
addressed. stamped envelope), oblige
them, even to the point of sending the
correct size. be it business Size (# 10)
or one larger or smaller. Also include
the proper postage and/ or any nominal
fees requested. This helps reduce
handling time and expense. and if you
don‘t. you may not receive a reply.
Plus. be 'sure to type or print legibly
and include your complete name.
address in the body of your letter or
postcard. as well as on the front for '
a return address. If you are asked to
send 25¢ or 50¢ in coin. tape your
coins to your letter or to a piece of
thin cardboard. so that they don't slide
around and accidentally tear open the
envelope.

4) ASK ONLY FOR WHAT YOU CAN
USE. As a general rule. don’t ask for
more than one. Unless, of course. you’re
a teacher with a classroom full of kids.
and the article says it's OK. In that case
it is a good idea to’send your request on
letterhead stationery and explain your
specific needs.

5) BE PATIENT. You should allow

at least four weeks for a reply. and
even then it may be'mOre like six.

In some cases. however, you will be

surprised by a quick response. After

. eight weeks. then begin to Worry. Keep

in mind that if the free offer is a good
one-and you wouldn't be interested
if it weren‘t—the company or organ-
ization making the offer is probably
besieged by other FREEBIES readers!
Many items will be sent by third or

, fourth class mail which gets where it's

going, but slowly.

6) BE PROMPT. Many times a freebie
will be available for a limited period
of time because of short supply.
seasonality. or because it’s part of a
special offer. Write promptly and you’ll
have a better chance of getting what
you want.
7) TALK BACK. When you receive f ree-
bies that are particularly good or help-
ful. let the suppliers know. They'll
appreciate hearing from you and will
likely be encouraged to provide other
freebies in the future.

Let us know ifyou don't hear from a
company or organization. or if the free
item turns out to be decidedly less than

what you‘ve been led to believe. Some—

times it happens. The FREEBIES staff
is always anxious to hear from its
readers—with the good or the bad
news.

 

 

.Magazinemt some: mg orNot rig

Publisher Circulation Director
GENE ZANNON GAIL MORSE
Editor Researcher
JON LEE MARY STONE
— Managing Editor General Manager
JEAN MANGUS LESLIE A. KELLEHER
Special Features Editor Staﬂ Associate

Volume 3 Number 27 _ May/June 1980

 

CANDI MACCONAUGHA

PAMELA REDINNG

Art/Design
TOM GOULD

Copyright 1980 FREEBIES PUBLISHING COMPANY.
No part of this material may be reproduced without

written permission.

Second Class Postage paid at Santa Barbara.Caiifornia.
USPS Publication ‘429—290. ISSN 0148-2092.

All correspondence (INCLUDING POSTAL FORM 3579)
should be sent to FREEBIES. P.O. Box Y. Santa Barbara.
CA 93 102. Editorial omces are located at 1387 School
House Road. Santa Barbara. CA 93108.

FREEBIES 1. a registered trademark of FREEBIES
Puausnmo COMPANY.

Published monthly by FREEBIES PUBLISHING COM-
PANY. P. O. Box Y. Santa Barbara. CA 93102 (1387
School House Road).

dCiaims for missing copies cannot be honored aﬁer 60
y'?

For information on subsuiptionuwrite to FREEBIES
Magazine. PO Box Y. Santa Barbara. CA 93102.

 

 

"‘_‘7-v‘—~4-. - _
v-'/4 "V _‘

c4...»-
3 -. :1.

 




 

 

. .

Editor’s Notebook

Each season presents its own char-
acter, and our function here at
FREEBIES is to coordinate offers
with the specific activities and
diversions that each change makes
possible. A' handbook on kite-ﬂying
would be of little use during the
harsh winter months, while inter-
esting indoor activities would be
appropriate. Instructions on making
your own sled would be great for the
November issue but misplaced in
May/June.

To further serve your seasonal
interests and needs, we have added
another department that we hope
will enable you to enjoy the fun and
adventure that the balmy summer
months make possible.

Starting with this issue, we are
proud to present The Great Out-
doors (page 10) that shows you some
innovative ways of getting out into
the environment and of getting the
most out of your experience. You’ll
learn that there is free firewood out
there for you to collect, wildlife to
tame and, rivers to explore. You will
meet groups who are dedicated to
getting you out into wild country,
either on horseback or on your own
two feet. And you’ll see a wide variety
of outdoor accessories that can
make your time of discovery about
Mother Nature safer and more
comfortable.

We hope that you’ll take advantage
of these offers to break free from
your winter lair and take a new look
at the beautiful outdoors alternaJ
tives that the summer opens up for
you. It should also be something that
you can use to enrich your life.

. As always, let us know if there are
other ways you feel we can be of
assistance. , .

Enjoy this issue of FREEBIES and

the sunny summer season.

Jon Lee
Editor

NUMBER TWENTY—SEVEN

V A COntents

 

 

Features

5

10

12

15'

2

2
3
4
4

‘ FYeebies for Teachers 16

I Learnall about glass making, ‘
get the latest list of drug
information publications and
check out Audio-visual on the
steel industry.

Food and Drink

. You, can cook with beans and

Fritos, spice 'itup with Vegit, 1 8
freeze itin foil and eat like a
Roman conqueror.

_. Feel Good. Look Good

Get healthy by playing racquet-
ball, not smoking and beating ‘
the common cold. Then top it
off with a new shampoo.

TheGreat Outdoors .

Head for the wild on a river

raft, horse’s back or in your 20
own boots. Warm a pet squir-

rel beside a fire made from your
free firewbod. 7

Special Report

The unex'amined life isn’t
worth living. So let the travel
bug bite you and take off for
some new looks at the world
waiting out there for you.

20

KidStuﬁ", “ - 21

You’re never too young to learn
about ‘money or too tough to
worry about tomados.

, Departments

How to Get the Most Out of
FREEBIES

FREEBIES Philosophy;
Editors Notebook
Hotline

Update

22 Catalog Quest
23 Free for All
23 Coming Next Issue

Careers

Find out about the career
futures in aviation and energy.
Women are welcomed to the
working world in more fields

‘ than ever. Serve your fellow

man in the Peace Corps or
VISTA.

Freebies for the Home

Learn how to find a house,
insulate it, lay down carpeting,
turn the basement into another
room and keep it all clean.

Minigardens

You can grow garden—fresh
vegetables even on the 21st
ﬂoor of an apartment building.

Buying Toys 7
The toys a child plays with are
a valuable part of his education.
Here’s what you should know
about buying them.

U.S. Economy

Learn how our economic system
evolved and how it all works in

_, this entertaining booklet.

Free ’n Easy

Learn how to make a nice, cozy
Snuggler to keep you warm on
those cold lOnely nights.

 

 

 




 

 

FREEBIES

 

Hotline

 

 

 

~

Hotline is the connection between
you and us. We look forward to
hearing about the things you like
and dislike about FREEBIES and
how you make use of particular
freebies. ’

Your input is very important to us
as we design future issues and the
overall format. We would genuinely
appreciate your ideas and feelings
about what has proven valuable to
you in the past and what you’d like
, to see in the future.

Please type or write your letter or
postcard neatly and send it to .
FREEBIES H OTLINE, P. O. Box Y.
Santa Barbara, CA 93102.

Why Just Teachers?

I enjoy FREEBIES immensely but I .
have a complaint. My son Joshua is
31/2 and I feel that right now, before
he receives a formal education, I am
his teacher. It breaks my heart that
there is resourceful and useful infor-
mation that I’m unable to obtain
because I don’t have school station—

 

FREEBIES Free Sample
...For A Friend

Got a friend just as crazy about free
samples, booklets, and fun as you are?
Then, just fill in the coupon below, send
us a self-addressed stamped (28¢ in
stamps on it) #10 envelope, and we’ll
send your friend a free sample

copy of FREEBIES.

In case you forgot our address, mail to:

FREEBIES Magazine
PO. Box Y
Santa Barbara. CA 93102

I. ________ _.

I FREEBIES Free Sample
I . . . For a Friend

lYes. I‘d like to send a free sample copy
of FREEBIES Magazine to the person
lnamed below. I am enclosing a SASE

 

 

(#10) with 28¢ in stamps on it.

 

 

 

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

 

ery to write on. My‘child would truly
appreciate and learn from it. '

M. Markvan
Freedom, PA

(Editor’s Note: You are referring to .
the policy of a few freebie offers
for information that is only avail-
able to teachers. Remember that
the suppliers give us their policies,
and it is not FREEBIES that makes
the rules regarding offers. But,
often certain material is designed
for classroom presentation and
will be most valuable when used ‘ '
as such. If you do want “teachers
only” material, write to the sup-
plier and explain yourself. They
could well make an exception for

you.)

Use the Label When Able

Thanks for the time-saving labels on
the last page of February 1980’s
issue. What a good idea.

J. Rae, Librarian
Indianapolis, IN

Flowers for FREEBIES

A big “bouquet” to you and your fine
staff for a most useful magazine that
is well worth the subscription price.
A note to the lady who wrote in issue
#24 how unhappy she wasnot re-
ceiving items she sent away for: I
sent for nearly all the offers she

mentioned (free seed packet and
posters) and I got all of the items
that I requested. I think we all have
to have a little more patience in our
requests and must be sure to follow
instructions.

Mrs. N. Decklever
Osage, IA

Catalog Question

How about a list of catalogs for
science, mechanical, chemistry,
woodworking, and inventor
interests?

Kellerstrass
Washington, IL

(Editor’s Note: That’s a good idea.
We’ve included several such cat-
alogs in the FREE FOR ALL depart-
ment on page 19 this issue.)

 

Update

Address Change

In issue #24 (February) the General
Electric Co. offered Drying Flowers
in Your Microwave Oven." The
correct address to use is: Consumer
Inquiry, General Electric Co.. Appli-
ance Park. Louisville. KY 40225. Note
that the numbers 2-235 are not
necessary after the words Appliance
Park in the address as we had
formerly reported.

 

FREEBIES Reprints

FREEBIES has a limited quantity of
the following reprints available. You
may wish to order one or several for
yourself. We will also be happy to
send reprints to your friend(s). Just
send a long self-addressed stamped
envelope.

Tel-Med—a complete up-to—date list
of all Tel—Med offices across the
nation,lincluding phone numbers
and locations.

The Carping Consumer—gives gov-
ernment offices, including director.
address. and phone number, where
you can gripe to Uncle Sam if you
have a complaint with a commercial
company.

 

Gardening—here’s a sampling of gar—

valuable information for the gardener.

various vegetables, and all about bed-

Recipes—need some new ideam
meals instead of the same old boring
oatmeal for breakfast. peanut butter
and jelly for lunch, and meat and

potatoes for dinner? Then. check out
this reprint.

dening catalogs, seed catalogs. herb
catalogs, vegetable catalogs, and pine
tree catalogs. Many contain other

such as what to plant for dried flower
arrangements, planting schedules for ”

ding plants. One company will even
send you a free packet of seeds.

Directions: Send SASE (#10)

Ask For: Reprint(s) of your choice
1 copy each and 3 per
envelope

Mail To: FREEBIES Reprints
PO. Box Y

 

Santa Barbara. CA 93102
J

 

X

 

 




   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

 

Freebies for Teachers

 

Film and Info Guide

All About Glass

 

Heavy Metal

The iron and steel industry is
certainly a cornerstone of America’s
strength among industrial powers.
And for teachers who are a little
rusty on the role played by the steel
companies in our economic growth
and development, this freebie is just
what you may need to design a
valuable program for your class.

Reference and Audio-Visual
Materials on Iron and Steel-A
Teacher’s Guide presents an exten—
sive listing of films and printed
material which educators and clubs
can study to learn how the industry
works, how it is managed, its labor
relations, job opportunities and con-
tributions to American life. The
guide lists the materials available,
the age levels they would best serve
and brieﬂy summarizes the content
of each film or pamphlet telling how
it fits into an educational program.
Everything from “Cast Iron—the
Biography of a Metal” (a 16mm film)
to “Steelmaking Moments of Deci-
sion” (an employment opportunities
booklet) is available through the use
of this catalog. There is something
for every age level no matter which
aspect of the industry you would like
to focus on.

Let this freebie assist you in telling
the story of the steel industry, how it
emerged, how it functions today and
how it figures in our future.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: “Reference and Audio-
Visual Materials . .

Mail To: Greg Shields
American Iron and Steel

Institute

Communications Dept.
1000 16th St., NW.

Washington, DC. 20036

 

 

- ancient techniques as well as cur—

absorbing tinted glass for energy

‘use.

 

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Glass-The Miracle Worker
Mail To: Libbey-OwensFord Co.
81 1 Madison Avenue
Toledo, OH 43695

Making One Thing
Perfectly Clear

Most kids know more about break-
ing glass than they do about how it’s
made. This, despite the fact that of
all the mass—produced materials we
use in everyday life, few have a more
illustrious past or wider current use
than glass. N ow, thanks to Glass—
The Miracle Worker, an informative
16—page magazine from Libbey- ‘
Owens—Ford, that no longer need be
the case.

Teachers can now, with the use of
this material, clearly explain the
history of glass production, both

 
     

/"

rent procedures. It deals with the
multiple uses of specialized glass
products in modern industry, such
as safety glass for Windshields, heat-

efficient exteriors in modern archi-
tecture, thermopane insulating glass
and SunPanel solar collectors that .
expedite the reception and storage of
the sun’s energy.

Individual copies of‘ ‘Glass—The
Miracle Worker” are available upon
request and up to 40 copies per

class can be ordered for educational \Q

\\\\‘\

 

 

Drug Abuse Information

Announcement of New
Pubﬁcaﬁons

Drugs and the Class of ’78: Be-
haviors, Attitudes and Recent Nation-n
a1 Trends. (ADM) 79-877, 335 pp.

 

marijuana by children and is intend-
ed specifically for parents of children
ages 9' to 14. Some of the informa— ‘
tion may be useful to parents of
older teenage children as well.
.Research Monograph Series—

This document presents detailed .
statistics on the current prevalence
of drug use among American high
school seniors in the Class of 1978-
their attitudes, exposure and percep—
tiOns concerning drug use and avail-
ability. This report also provides data
on trends and changes from, 1975—
1978.

.Heroin Indicators Trend Report-—

An Update. 1976-1978 (ADM) 79—
892, 19 pp.

Provides a brief and objective
assessment of heroin indicators in
the United States.

OParents, Peers and Pot. (ADM) 79-

812, 98 pp. ‘
This book is about the use of

Monograph 25—Behavioral Analysis
and Treatment of Substance Abuse.
(ADM) 79-839, 256 pp.

Presents a variety of views on both
methods of treatment and analysis
of the addictive behaviors which
provide improved theory and treat-
ment strategies. The four parts are:
Drugs, Cigarette Smoking, Ethanol
and Obesity.

Singles copies of the above publi-
cations are available on request
by writing to: ADAMHA, NIDA,
NCDAI
Room 10A56
5600 Fishers Lane
Rockville, MD 20857

  




 

 

 

 

FREEBIES

 

 

 

 

Food and Drink

Spice Sample

 

Flavor for Free

If a low-sodium diet has turned your
mealtime into a dull experience, it’s
time you tried something to put the
spice back into your life without the
dangers of salt." '

Vegit is a 100% natural all-vege-
table seasoning that contains nearly
no sodium yet adds the healthy tang
to your food that you and your
appetite love. The makers of Vegit
will send you a sample packet of
their seasoning free for the asking.
They think that you’ll find it the
perfect additive for meats, fish,
poultry, salads, vegetables, eggs and
anything else that you wish to spice
up a bit. . ' , ,

Freezing Foods

Along with the free sample they’ 1]
send you Health Recipes and
Beauty Secrets from Gayelord
Hauser who has developed dozens of
other vegetable’seasoners in addi-
tion to Vegit. Get the complete run-
down on healthful seasonings and
how to use them in the 24-page
pamphlet. It may give you some good
ideas enabling you to revitalize those

. dormant taste buds you’ve long been

ignoring.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: Vegit sample and
Gourmet Health Recipes.

Mail To: Modern Products, Inc.
Department F
3015 W. Vera Avenue
Milwaukee, WI 53209

 

 

Foiled Again

Freezing foods is a normal activity in
today’s modern kitchen. It enables
youto capture the taste of summer’s
harvest and serve it all year round.
Freezer storage allows you to take
advantage of special sales, stock up
on seasonal foods when they’re plen-
tiful and less expensive, and prepare
meals ahead of time to be ready
when needed.

Freezing Foods with Reynolds
Wrap covers the subject of freezing
foods from A to Z. In this pamphlet
you learn how to freeze items most
effectively, which types of wrap are
most successful, which foods cannot
be frozen, specific wrapping tech-
niques for different items or contain-

‘ers and how to best bring life back
to that frozen food with proper
reheating procedures. What more
could you need to know?

Without this information you’d

‘ have to learn the hard way—that

many spices get stronger when
frozen and that sour cream sepa—
rates. Avoid that painful process
with a simple postcard and have this

frozen food freebie delivered to your

doon

Directions: send a postcard
Ask For: Freezing Food. with
Reynolds Wrap

' Mail To: The Reynolds Wrap

Kitchens
Department FM
Richmond, VA 23261

Cookbooks

 

“

Corn Chip Cookery

If you are one of the people who
thinks that com chips are nothing
more than snacks to add to lunch
boxes, these freebies from Frito-Lay
will open your eyes and titillate your
tongue. ' .

The Fritos Cook Booklet shows
you how to add a crispy twist to
favorite dishes, such as chili pie,
tomato soup, meat loaf, hot dogs.
turkey stuffing and dozens of others.
The versatile Frito chip is also the
featured ingredient in a variety of
salads, dips, sandwiches and appe-
tizers. '

Doritos brand tortilla chips bring
you The Imagination Cookbook,
which displays 26 mouthwatering
ways to take advantage of their
chips. With 16 full-color pages they
display the stylish hors d'oeuvre
presentations and nacho (chips with
cheese and topping) ideas that make
ideal appetizers for parties or special
occasion treats for the family. The

corn flavor of tortilla chips also adds

taste and texture to salads and
Latin-style casseroles. And for those
daredevil gourmets. there is a maca—
roon fudge made with finely ground
corn chips.

Frito-Lay Favorites is yet another
idea book that features a variety of
their crunchy products in creative
situations. Check out all three of
these sources of meal-time innova—
tion.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Any or all of the recipe
booklets
Mail To: Gayla Thomason
Frito-Lay, Inc.
P.O. Box 35034
_ Dallas, TX 75235

 

if: . {Em 0-} ‘ it: - ~‘.‘.-‘
" :23: hug: *‘s- M 5' ‘~ 3

 

A ,— ‘pizh .5,

34.4:

 




443-2344 L.- . -__ U A . <

i5??? 2; i ‘ ,

‘Qz"‘-»r:: ;"- ‘

 

Recipes and Information

That’s Using the Old
Bean

 

 

When the pilgrims arrived in 1620,
friendly Indians taught them to ,

. plant corn and beans together so

beans could climb on the comstalks
and both vegetables would mature at
the same time. But even then the .
cultivation of beans was an ancient

' art. The nutritional value and ease of

cultivation of‘ beans made them one
of man’s earliest crops, and they
remain today a superb source of
vitamins and minerals.

Fingertip Facts About California
Beans, Bean Nutrition in a Nut-
shell and Blackeyed Beauty are
three pamphlets from the California
Dry' Bean Advisory Board that will
tell you all about the value of, and
many recipe ideas featuring, beans.
You’ll learn why the pioneers packed
them aboard for the trip west and
how this handy source of calcium,
potassium, niacin, riboﬂavin, thia-
min and carbohydrates satisfies
hunger for long periods and stokes
the human engine.

Blackeyed Beauty is a theatrical
tale of “human hunger and rich

fulfillment” set against the backdrop ‘

of the romantic deep South. Mean—
ingful relationships and no less
satisfying recipes with blackeyed
beans cast in starring roles form the
.dramatic crescendo of this epic
production.

All of these brochures are yours for
the asking.

Directions: Send a SASE #10

Ask For: Any of the above book-
lets (only two per SASE
please)

Mail To: California Dry Bean
Advisory Board
Po Box 943 ,
Dinuba, CA 93618

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

. Dressing Tips

Back at the Ranch

We’ re all aware that Hidden Valley
Ranch Dressing is one of the tastiest
toppings for any salad. But have you
thought to add it to potato soup or
splash it on a burger? And did you
know there really is a Hidden

Valley Ranch, high above Santa
Barbara (FREEBIES’ home, by the
way) in Califomia’s Santa Ynez

'Mountains, and that for years the

formula for the now-famous salad
dressing was a jealously guarded
family secret?

These and other revelations are
yours for the asking in Original
Ranch Recipes from Hidden Valley
Ranch, a booklet of 14 ways to use
this famous dressing that you might
never have imagined. The secrets of
how to blend Hidden Valley Ranch
Dressing into macaroni salad and
French bread topping and the exact

‘ process for creating Tuna Parmesan

Nuggets are yours for a postcard.

Directions: Send a' postCard
Ask For: Original Ranch Recipes
from Hidden Valley Ranch
Mail To: The HVR Company
Consumer Service,
. Dept. {FBS
P.O. Box 24305
Oakland, CA 94623 ~

 

 

Bread and Cereal,

The Staff of Life

How did the Roman legions conquer
the world? What was the secret
source of the Gladiators’ prodigious
strength? What was in the special
meals smuggled in to several. of the
Christians that enabled them to
overcome the savage lions they faced

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~ by—day.

in- the Coliseum? As you may have
guessed by now, it was Roman Meal
Bread that made it all possible.

Now you can find the same source
of strength and nutrition right here
in your 20th century supermarket.
And with this booklet from Roman
Meal, Bread on the Table, you can ‘
learn why bread has remained one of
the staples of a good balanced diet
through the ages. The dietary facts
are conclusive, bread is good for you.
The fallacies—bread is fattening and
full of preservatives—are dispelled.

Diet and Nutrition Plan is a day-
meal—by—meal formula to a
balanced, yet calorie—conscious, diet, '
which emphasizes that good food.
including bread, can be appetizing
as well as slimming.

Also available is a packet of rec— <
ipes thathighlight Roman Meal
Cereal in cookies, breads, granola,
pancakes, coffee cake, nut breads
and meat dishes. Just ask for
Roman Meal Cereal Recipes and
discover the versatility of this nutri-
tious food.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Desired Booklets
Mail To: Roman Meal Company
Consumer Services
2101 So. Tacoma Way
‘ Tacoma, WA 98409

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREEBIES

 

Feel Good, Look Good

—

Information Booklets

 

‘Ask Uncle Sam

One good thing about government
agencies is that they’ll usually give
you straight answers to consumer
questions. So if you need to find out
about health foods, ridding yourself
of the common cold or losing weight
the Department of Health, Education
and Welfa‘re‘has three booklets that
should answer many of your in-'
quiries.

The Confusing World of Health
Foods points up the indiscriminate
use of catch words such as “health,”
“organic” and “natural” in ads. So it
goes about the difficult task of defin-
ing just what is and what isn’t consid-
ered a legitimate organic or natural
product. There are some serious
warnings to heed such as the careful
use of products containing potassium
chloride, a substance often scld in
health food stores as a ‘diet‘supple-
ment, and watching out for some her-
bal teas which contain cancer-
producing ingredients. ’-

In Only Four Weeks is an informa-
tive look at weight-loss programs.
The title refers to those phony
pitches that promise you’ll drop ten to
twenty pounds in just a few short
weeks. That is if you don’t drop dead .
first. Many products and treatments
promise a new shape overnight, but

according to this booklet, few can de-
liver on such wild claims. The fact is
that you need to eat less and exercise
more. But if you have a hankering to
try some magical weight loss device

anyways, read this first.

The Common Cold: Relief But N o
Cure warns that while there are cold
tablets and potions on the market that
can relieve cold symptoms, there is
still no known cure for one of man-
kind’s most familiar maladies. A Food
and Drug'Administration advisory

, panel reviewed the many ingredients

used in popular cold remedies and the
findings of that study are listed here.
There’s a discussion of everything
from nasal decongestants to cough
suppressants, complete with the
panel’s'opinion on the effectiveness
of each ingredient used.

To get the best advice, one should
alwaysask an expert. And that’s what
the government has done. You can get
the same answers by obtaining these
booklets.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: Specific booklet desired

Mail To: Department of Health.
Education and Welfare
Public Health Service
Food and Drug Admin.
Rockville, MD 20857

—

Racquetball Guide

 

A Blast in a Box

In box—shaped courts across the
country, the new sport of racquetball
is becoming the rage on the Ameri-
can sports scene. There are plenty of
reasons why this game is catching
on so fast. Almost anyone can play
adequately right from the start and
the total workout you get in less
than an hour is, according to devo-
tees, more invigorating, more excit-
ing and more fun than jogging.
Ektelon’s Guide to Better Rac-
quetball is the perfect means of
getting acquainted with the sport.
‘ Like‘handball, racquetball is played

_ in a six-walled court (counting ceiling

and ﬂoor), and the players try to
blast the small balloff the front wall
with what looks like a sawed-off
tennis racquet. Ektelon’s guide gives

you complete rules for the game and
a basic course on the shots and
strategies that top players use.

The speed of the game and quick
movement of players make a rac-
quetball session a cardiovascular
workout second to none. And the ‘
Sport can be enjoyed at all levels
from your first day out to the more
accomplished leVels of play.

Send for this freebie, find yourself
a racquetball court, and discover
why this sport is capturing the
imagination of fitness-minded men
and women everywhere.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: Ektelon’s Guide to Better
Racquetball

Mail To: Ektelon .
8929 Aero Drive
San Diego, CA 92120

Shampoo and Conditioner

For Healthier Hair

If the new hair styles and blow
dryers have got your hair on the
defensive, strike back with this free-
bie that treats your hair in a manner
to which it would love to grow
accustomed.

To introduce you to their line of
natural, organic hair care products,
The Freeman Cosmetic Corporation
will send you samples of their pH
‘balanced shampoo and conditioner.
TWO ﬂuid ounces of each product are
yours if you send in $1.00 to cover
the cost of postage and handling.

Richard Freeman, who formulated
the entire line of hair care items, has
paid special attention to the pH
scale, which determines the acidity
or alkalinity of your hair and scalp.
His products are balanced at the‘5.5
mark on the scale, the same as your .
hair, so that there will be no de—
pletion of the hairs nutrients. Since
hair is 85% protein, Freeman has
used protein as the basic ingredient
of his shampoo.

So, if you’re having trouble with
your crowning glory, try a dose of
Freeman‘s Presto Amino Shampoo
and Finishing Conditioning Rinse.
The generous sample is good for at
least a week or two or hair care so
you’ll have plenty of time to see how
you and your hair like it.

Directions: Send $ 1.00 for postage

and handling

Ask For: Presto Amino Shampoo
and Finishing Condition-
ing Rinse

Mail To: The Freeman Cosmetic
Corporation
PO. Box 1 7
Hollywood, CA 90028

 

l

 

 

'. 3/ _ ‘.
gi A, -.—~_;._ r L»;
E A‘Z-fﬂ'l" .__.A - .._. .l e.

7; .-

_ 3,. _A;-‘_A.“f..
“affix - .- £3




 

NUMBER TWENTY—SEVEN

 

Bandaging Information

Non-Smoking Information

 

Slices of Life

The nastiest wounds of all occur
around the home. When your trusty
lawn mower turns on you or your
daughter shows up fresh from
another bike accident, you’ve got to
be prepared with a good knowledge
of first aid procedures and bandag—
ing techniques that will prevent
infection and hasten the healing
process. ,

Home Care Bandaging from the
3M Company is the perfect pamphlet
to read and keep on hand to make
sure that you'll be able to properly
deal with the occasional scrapes and
cuts to which the ﬂesh is heir. It tells
you how to prepare the wound for
bandaging by stopping the bleeding
with direct pressure and then
cleansing the wound and the area
around it with a mild hand soap
before closing the wound and apply-
ing the bandage.

Specific instructions covering
bandaging of certain parts of the .
body help you apply a secure, germ-
free dressing. The booklet includes
diagrams of taping techniques for
hard-to-bandage areas like knuckles
and knees. It also points you in the
right direction for types of tape and
bandagi'ng products.

So now there is no reason for you
to be caught unprepared when a
minor accident befalls you or some-
one in your family. A simple post-
card to the 3M folks and they’ll send
you all you need to know about
dealing with those minor mishaps
and getting back on the road to
recovery. .
Directions: Send a postcard '

Ask For: Home Care Bandaging

Mail To: Home Health Care Prods.
3M Center 223-IN
St. Paul, MN 55101

No Smoking Please

You’ll be hard—pressed to find many
non-smokers who enjoy the aroma of
a burning cigarette or cigar. It’s
harder still to find one who’s not
offended by the cigarette butts and
ash tray odor that linger in the wake
of a smoking spree. But, until re-
cently, all you could do when the guy
next to you gave birth to great
clouds of noxious smoke was bite
your lip and reach for the air-sick
bag.

Now, through the efforts of groups
like ASH (Action on Smoking and '
Health), the government has judged
that non-smokers do have rights,
and it’s easy to find out how exten—
sive those rights are. ASH was at the
forefront of the anti—smoking cam-
paign, obtaining hundreds of mil—
lions of dollars for radio and TV
campaigns for the removal of ciga-
rette commercials from the airwaves,
for the elimination of deceptive cig-
arette advertising practices and for
the establishment of non-smoking
areas on planes, busses and public

buildings. They’re anxious to tell you‘

all about their dealings in court and
out. You can get the Whole rundown
in their pamphlet History of the
War Against Smoking 1 964-1 978.
It’s an interesting blow—by—blow
account demonstrating how a well-

. managed interest group can beat the

well—financed tobacco lobbies that
have had their way in the political
arena up ’til now.

Yow Money and Your Life is
another item from ASH that you
might find interesting. It displays a

 

 

collection of anti-smoking posters,
buttons, T—shirts, bumper stickers
and badges that are available '
through ASH’s mail order depart-
ment. If you want to state your case
boldly, ASH has the slogan and sign
that will put smokers on the defen—

sive.

A listing of ASH’s specific legal
victories and unfulfilled objectives is
presented in Legal ASH. The actual
antismoking information presented
to the House of Representatives is
also available in the Congressional
Record transcript titled The Dan~
gers of Tobacco Smoke to Non-
Smokers. It’s a complete account of
the scientific evidence and testing
results presented to Congress that
led to the establishment of manda—
tory non—smoking sections in public
buildings and transportation
vehicles.

ASH also will send you a Civil
Aeronautics Board Card that spells
out your right as a non—smoker so
that you can flash it to an offensive
neighbor or a misinformed airline
employee.

As you can see, ASH is well organ-
ized and quite serious about remov-
ing the threat of cigarette—related
health problems from those of us
who don’t indulge. If you want a
complete information packet or any
of the specific items mentioned (you
can even ask for a cardboard “tent .
sign” that says “Thank You For Not
Smoking” for your desk or coffee
table) just drop them a line and take
a deep» breath of fresh air. That’s
what they’re fighting for!

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Desired Information
Mail‘To: Action on Smoking and
Health ,
P.O. Box 19556
2000 H Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20006

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10

 

FREEBIES ‘

The Great OutdoOrs

 

 

River Riding

Outdoor Catalog

 

Whitewater Adventure

Of all the vestiges of wild America,
perhaps free—flowing rivers and
streams are the most precious. But
they’re becoming increasingly rare as
dams, channels, dredging and pol-
lution change the faces of many of
America’s rivers. Here is a chance to
learn about river conservation and
ride a raft down the course of some
of our country’s most beautiful wa—
terways.

The American Rivers Conservation
Council offers many unique river
trips of different durations, ranging
from $ 1 5 one—day junkets to week— /
long $300 expeditions. The trips
take place primarily east of the
Rockies where waters are smoother
and even beginners will be safe to
experience these unique'views of
nature.

The ARCC will be glad to send you
their information packet and a ‘ ’

‘ schedule 0f Conservation'River

Trips free for the asking.

Directions: Send a SASE #10:,
Ask For: Information and Schedule

of Conservation River
Trips ' " ' '
Mail To: American Rive-rs Conser- .
vation Council: .
31 7 Pennsylvania Ave; , SE
.Washington, D.C.;20003

 

 

Firewood Freebies

 

Fire When Ready

The only thing more romantic than
an evening out with your sweetheart
is taking him or her back home to
the warm glow and romantic
inﬂuences of a fire in the fireplace.
And, after that overpriced dinner
and expensive corsage, it would be
especially nice if that firewood that
is casting the spell didn’t cost a
cent. That can easily be the case if
you take advantage of these freebies

- .iz/f
7 . I”
A.

ll“ ’1 wit ‘2" ”ﬂ

 

 

 

from the U.S. Department .of Agri-
culture. - 2 . '~

Fact Sheet—Firewood from Na-
tional Forests is the official word
that you really can waltz into any of
the 154 National Forests'and, with
proper authorization, from the Dis-
trict Ranger,walk awaywith all the
wood you’ll ever need to keep your
home fire buming..With the proce- ‘
dures and limitations concerning
the “free firewood” program comes,
on request, a listing of the Field
Offices of the Forest Service ena-
bling you to locate the nearest one
to you and to obtain information on
your local firewood source.

Another pamphlet from the USDA,
Firewood for Your Fireplace, tells
you how to select good wood, pur-
chase the proper amount (if you
must buy it), cure the logs to their
prime, and then how to build the
safest and most efficient blaze.

With the help of these freebies,
your fireplace, and the heart of your
honey, will both be blazing before
long. ‘

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: Desired Information

Mail To: Forest Service
U.S. Dept. of Agriculture
PO. Box 241 7
Washington, D.C. 20013

—~——__.._

Meet Mother Nature

If you've ever spent much time in the
great outdoors, you’ve probably al-
ready learned what the Boy Scouts
have known all along, that it pays to
be prepared. A windblown campfire
and a wet sleeping bag can make for
a cold meal and a sleepless night.
With proper equipment, however, you
can enjoy the beauty of the back
country and outdoor sports in any
weather without compromising your
personal comfort.

The Holubar Outdoor Equipment
Catalog displays 48 color pages of '
fashionable, functional clothing and
outdoor gear that will make your
excursions into the wilderness a
breeze. All sorts of tents, sleeping
bags, backpacks, jackets, boots and
cooking accessories can be found in
this easy—to-use mail order catalog.
You’ll also see complete lines of
sporting goods for mountain climb-
ing, ski touring, jogging and casual
hiking. _

So, before you pull on your hiking
boots and hit the dusty trail, or
strap on your snow shoes for a
tromp through the winter wonder-
land, check out the world of spe—
cially designed equipment that will
make your adventure easier and a lot
more fun. »

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Outdoor Equipment
Catalog
Mail To: Holubar
Box 7
Boulder, CO 80306

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

  




   

 

 

Horseback Trips

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

!

A wild Pet V

 

Happy Trails to You

Saddle up the old mare, pull your
ten—gallon hat down tight, take a '
chaw of tobacco and you’re readyto
join the Trail Riders of the Wilder-
ness for an unforgettable encounter
with the back country beauty of
nature. “Trail Rider” is a program
created by the American Forestry
Association in 1933 to expose mem-
bers first hand to the vitality and
splendor of our nation’s forests. To
that end, the organization continues
to organize trips that provide a

- means for people to visit remote

areas, which they lack the expe-
rience, knowledge or equipment to
undertake alone.

Bacprkacke’s Bulletins

The 1980'calendar of trips fea—

- tures canoe expeditions, hiking-with-

packstock trips and combination»
water and land journeys in addition
to entirely horseback getaways.

To receive the calendar and de—
scription of each of the many excur-
sions around the country, write away
for this freebie. -It could be just what ‘
you need to discover the wild and
often distant world of wilderness.

Directionerend a SASE # 10

Ask For: Trail Riders of the
Wilderness

Mail To: AFA Trail Riders

1319 18th Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20036

 

Safe and Soundless.

Any trek into the wild back country
carries with it a certain amount of
responsibility. You will be in a natu-
ral environment in which you must
be self-sufficient. That includes med—
ical, supplies and maps as well as
food, clothing and overnight equip-
ment. '

The International Backpacker’s
Association'calls itself the "voice of
the silent travelers” and it puts out a
series of trail bulletins for back-
packers, trail campers, hikers and
other believers in self-propelled out-
door recreation. These informative
pages deal with all aspects of safety.

 

supplies and wildlife that you may
encounter on the trail. If you’re
anticipating a purchase of equip-
ment, chances are that the IBA has a
bulletin covering the pros and cons
of various types or styles of that
item. Send for the complete list of
IBA Bulletins and they’ll send you-
the ones. that you find most valuable
for your needs. With their help you’ll
become a‘ wiser wilderness wanderer.

Directions: Send a SASE #10

Ask For: List of bulletins

Mail To: International Back-
packer’s Association
PO. Box 85 ~- '
Lincoln Center, ME 04458

 

< \_.4

 

Raising a FallenSquirrel '

 

When your child returns from a walk
in the woods with a cute little baby
squirrel, will you know what to do?
Most people don’t have a clue about
a young squirrel’s feeding times,
favorite toys or diaper size. Now, with
this booklet from the Humane
Society, So 'You Found a Baby _
Squirrel, you can easily become an ’
expert on squirrel rearing.

You’ll learn how to make sure that
the little one is healthy, the type of
nursery to provide, and the proper
feeding procedures that Will insure
balanced nourishment as the animal
grows toward adulthood. But, with
adulthood comes trouble. ‘

By the time your adorable adoptee
has reached the ageof three or four
.months, it’s time to release him into
his natural habitat. He’ll be cute and
loveable, and your whole family will
curse you unless you explain care-
fully why the little guy must be freed.
The Humane Society booklet gives
you a reference source to point to so
that your kids won’t put all the
blame on you.

To save the lives of baby squirrels
wherever you might find them and to

‘save‘your family’s togetherness, send

for this freebie and start saving
those walnuts and acorns.

Directions: Send 50¢ for postage
and handling

Ask For: So You Found a Baby
Squirrel

Mail To: Associated Humane
Societies, Inc.
124 Evergreen Avenue
Newark, NJ 07114 ’

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   

FREEBIES

 

 

   

About this time of year people get
the itch to set off and see the
country. It’s a wholly natural phe-
nomenon, based partly on jubilation
at surviving yet another freezing
winter snowbound and partly on the
spirit of wanderlust in each of us
that only lies dormant for so long.

Before you hit the highways,
however, we’ve put together an
assemblage of free sources of travel
information, bits and pieces and
tidbits that should make your holi-
day brighter. So read on. Not every-
thing will apply to everyone, but
we’re certain that you’ll find some
point of interest along the way.

For example, with the high cost of
feeding gas guzzlers keeping many of
us from straying far from home this
summer, you might want to consider

the merits of a walking vacation. No, .

we don’t mean the stick-out-your-
thumb variety, just a leisurely stroll
through an interesting section of the
country. To help you get off ‘on the
right foot, Walking Tours of America
offers a series of booklets describing

'60 “feet, do your stuff" tours around

the nation. Divided into four regions,
each packet costs $1 (to cover
postage and handling) and is avail-
able from Kinney Walking Tours,
PO. Box 5006, New York. NY 10022.
While Walking Tours provides gui-
dance in cities, those‘who want to
explore the wilderness areas of our ’
country have free assistance, too.

7 There are many tours available, each

equipped With a guide expert in
rubbing two sticks together to fire
up the morning coffee. And there’s
such a wide selection among the
groups we investigated that you’re

certain to find just the one'for you.

Some specialize in canoeing, others
backpacking. And some tours cost
practically nothing, such as signing
up to help restore a flood- or fire—
damaged wilderness area. For more
information on what’s available for ,
would-be wanderers, contact the fol-
lowing non-profit organizations:
Outward Bound, Dept. FB, 384
Field Point-Road. Greenwich, CT
06330 (Toll free phone: 800 243-

' 8520).

Women in the Wilderness, Dept.
FB, 13' Columbus Avenue, San

' Francisco, CA 9411 1.

     

Sierra Club, Outing Department.
Dept. FB, 530 Bush Street, San
Francisco, CA 94108.

American Youth Hostels, Inc.,'
Dept. FB, Delaplane, VA 22025.

If you want to experience the great

‘ outdoors, but don’t want to walk it,

how about taking a tour on horse-
back? Here; again, your selection is
so diverse that you can tailor your
trip to meet specific requirements.
Some of the outfits listed below are
the old-fashioned dude ranch variety;
others allow families to participate
in a real life ranching experience
where egg-gathering and hog—feeding
have to come before playtime. Ask
lots of questions before you sign up
so that you’re sure to get exactly
what you want. But all the following
folks will be glad to oblige, ma’am.

Scott Valley Dude Ranch.
Mountain Home,‘AK 72653. ,.

Flying H western Ranch, P.O. Box
95-A, Paso Robles, CA 93446.

Bar X Ranch, Box 274/, Crawford,
CO 81413.

rHobson’s Bluﬂdale, Eldred, IL
62027. , _

Wagons Ho!, Box 74—A Main St.,
Quinter, KY 67752

Kenlake Resort State Park,
Hardin,KN 42048 /

Nine Quarter Circle Ranch, Gal-
latin Gateway, MT 59730

Little Texas Ranch, Obernburg,
NY (New York?!?) 12767

Flying W Ranch, State Route 2,
Tionesta. PA 16353

Mayan Dude Ranch, PO. Box
57 7F, Bandera. TX 78803

Graves’ Mountain Lodge, Syria,
VA 22 743

Pipestem State’Park, Pipestem,
WV 25979

Crossed Sabres Ranch, Wapiti,
WY 82450 .

\

.; NA)

-
‘.A

4-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The FREEBIES

And the American Forestry Associa-
tion. (Dept. A, 1319 18th St. NW,
Washington, DC. 20036) will send
you a free guide to their 40-plus
Trailriders of the Wilderness trips.
Trips vary from three to 10 days, and
you can mount up all over the
country. Do include a stamped, self-
addressed envelope with your re-
quest for the brochure.

Perhaps the thought of befriending
a four-footed beast is not your idea
of real R & R If that’s the case, why ’
not tame a bicycle instead. Then use .
it to explore the country. Bikes have
advantages cars do not: they cost
nothing to operate and they can
travel where cars are forbidden.
Bikecentennial was formed four
years ago (during the guess what?) to
encourage Americans to wheel ,
through the country. They’ve mapped
out all sorts of short and long
distance tours—the longest is the
4,450-milewonder that connects the
coasts. There’s a $12 annual mem-
bership fee which entitles you to
receive all the information free.
Write to them at Bikecentennial,
PO. Box 8308, M issoula, MT 59807
for more information. '

In your search for the perfect
vacation, don’t overlook the state
tourism departments. They’re there
to help you by supplying all sorts of
free information concerning areas of
special interest within their state.
Most states will send you a road map
and brochures; some states (like
Texas) will send a veritable library of
information. Send your request in
the following manner:

Dimctions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Tourist Information Packet
Mail To: (see following addresses)

r.

,/P\
MD

35‘
v?

 

 

 

 




 

 

Special Rep

   

Alabama '

Bureau of Publicity & Information
403 State Highway Building
Montgomery. AL 36130
Birmingham

Greater Birmingham Convention
and Visitor’s Bureau

Suite 940

First Alabama Bank Bldg.
Birmingham, AL 35203

Alaska

Division of Tourism

State of Alaska

Pouch E

Juneau, AK 9981 1

Anchorage

Anchorage Convention and Visitor's
Bureau

Plaza 201. East Third Avenue
Anchorage, AK 99501

Arizona .

Arizona State Office'of Tourism
1700 W. Washington

Phoenix, AZ 85007

Phoenix and Valley of the Sun
Convention & Visitor‘s Bureau
2701 E. Camelback Road
Phoenix. AZ 85016

Arkansas

Arkansas Dept. of Parks & Tourism
140 State Capitol Bldg.

Little Rock. AR 72201

Bureau for Conventions & Visitors
PO Box 3232

Little Rock. AR 72203

California

Office of Visitor Services

Dept. of Economic & Business
Development

1120 N Street

Sacramento, CA 95814

- Los Angeles Convention & Visitor's
Bureau

PO. Box 71608

Los Angeles. CA 90071

San Diego Convention & Visitor’s
Bureau

1200 Third Avenue. Suite 824

San Diego, CA 92101

San Francisco Convention & Visitor's
Bureau

1390 Market Street, Suite 260

San Francisco, CA 94102

Colorado

Travel Marketing Section

Colorado Division of Commerce &
Development

1313 Sherman St.. Room 500
Denver, CO 80203

Denver 8: Colorado Convention &
VISItor's Bureau

225 West Colfax Avenue

Denver. CO 80202

Connecticut

Tourism Division.

Connecticut Department of
Commerce

210 Washington Street
Hartford. CT 06106

Delaware

Delaware State Visitor's Service
DiVision of Economic Development
630 State College Road

Dover, DE 1 990,1

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

ort f

l i n. - mama . 5:5; - as...» ‘ ‘v'rz'f-Iu’ E- ‘: y , " 1 c - w .. .. -.-..; , .- ., r ., , , .
i- I... .- ”0,: .-:~ w .. :~v|r,'. . , r. .,.- «.1» n,, -- .. .- .-..-.i
A,“ 4., 4 \-.:-.‘.i .3 .VﬂyLv‘Iﬁs‘l‘ﬂh‘.» “5.1.1.1.— Jtm. .. . . 3.. 5| Ht. .1 "6.17:. xiii, ._-‘ .f I.“ ._ , p ‘x

District of Columbia
Washington Area Convention & .
Visitors Association

I 129 20th Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036

Florida

Division of Tourism

Florida Department of Commerce
107 West Gaines Street
Tallahassee, FL 32304

Jacksonville Convention & Visitor‘s
Bureau

133 W. Monroe Street

Jacksonville, FL 32207

Miami Metro Department of Publicity
and Tourism . '

499 Biscayne Boulevard

Miami, FL 33132

Georgia

Tourist Division

Bureau of Industry and Trade
PO. Box 1776

Atlanta, GA 30301

Atlanta Convention & Visitor's
Bureau

229 Peachtree Street, NE.
Suite 1414

Atlanta. GA 30303

Hawaii

Hawaii Visitor's Bureau
PO. Box 8527 ,
Honolulu. HI 96815

Idaho

Division of Tourism and Industrial
Development

State Capitol Building, Rm 108
Boise, ID 83720

Illinois

Office of Tourism ~
160 N. LaSalle
Chicago, IL 60601

Chicago Convention & Tourism
Bureau, Inc. _

332 S. Michigan Avenue, Rm 2050
Chicago, Il 60604 .

Indiana - .

Tourism DeVelopment Division
Indiana Department of Commerce
State House, Room 336

Indianapolis. IN 46204

Indianapolis Convention & Visitor's
Bureau .

100 S. Capitol Avenue

Indianapolis, IN 46225

Iowa

Travel Development Division
Iowa Development Commission
250 Jewett Building

Des Moines. IA 50309

Kansas

Tourist Division

Kansas Department of Economic
Development

503 Kansas Avenue

Topeka, KS 66603

Kentucky

Division of Advertising & Travel
Promotion

Department of Public Information
Capitol Annex

Frankfort. KY 40601

Louisville Visitor’s Bureau

300 West Liberty

Louisville. KY 40202

 

Louisiana

Louisiana Tourist Development
Commission

P.O.Box 44291, Capitol Station
Baton Rouge, LA 70804
Greater New Orleans Tourist
Convention Commission

334 Royal Street

New Orleans, LA 70130

Maine

State Development Office
State House

Augusta, ME 04333

Tourism & Convention Bureau
Greater Portland Chamber of
Commerce

142 Free Street

Portland, ME 04101

Maryland .

Division of Tourist Development
Department of Economic &
Community Development

1748 Forest Drive

Annapolis, MD 21401

Baltimore Promotion Council. Inc.
22 Light, Street, Suite 502
Baltimore, MD 21202

Massachusetts

Massachusetts Department of
CommerCe & Development

100 Cambridge Street

13th Floor. Government Center
Boston, MA 02202

Greater Boston Convention and
Tourist Bureau, Inc.
900 Boylston Street
Boston, MA 021 15

Michigan

Travel Bureau

Michigan Department of Commerce
PO. Box 30226 ‘ ' .
Lansing, MI 48909

Metropolitan Detroit Convention 81

.Visitor’s Bureau

100 Renaissance Center. Suite 1950'
Detroit, MI 48243

Minnesota

Tourism Division

Minnesota Department of Economic
Development

480 Cedar Street, Hanover Bldg.

St. Paul. MN 55101

Mississippi

Travel, Tourism & Public Affairs
Department

Mississippi Agricultural & Industrial
Board

Po Box 849

PO. Box 849

Jackson, MS 39205

Natchez Adams County Chamber of
Commerce

PO. Box 725 ‘

Natchez. MS 39120

Continued on Page 14

' ', ‘ , - ' a
. i , i :_

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if<€ “ I .

1.4 '

FREEBIES

 

Missouri

Missouri Division of Tourism
13.0. Box 1055

Jefferson City, MO 65101

Convention & Visitor‘s Bureau of
Greater Kansas Clty

1221 Baltimore, Eleventh Floor
Kansas City, MO 64105
Convention & Visitoris Bureauof
Greater St. Louis

500 North Broadway, Suite 1545
St. Louis, MO 63102

Montana

Travel Promotion Unit

Montana Department of Highways
Helena, MT 59601

Nebraska
Division of Travel 8: Tourism
Nebraska Department of Economic

’ Development

PO. Box 94666
Lincoln, NB 68509

Omaha Convention & Visitor’s
Council

1620 Dodge Street

Suite 2100

Omaha, NB 68102 ‘

, Nevada

Travel—Tourism Division
Nevada Department of Economic
Development

' Capitol Complex

Carson City, NV 89710

Convention & Visitor’s/Authority
PO. Box 14006 ‘
Las Vegas, NV 891 14

North Carolina

Travel & Tourism Division
North Carolina Department of
Commerce .

430 N. Salisbury Street
Raleigh. NC 27611

. New Hampshire

Office of Vacation Travel

Division of Economic Development
PO. Box 856

Concord, NH 03301

Greater Manchester Chamber of
Commerce

57 Market Street

Manchester, NH 03101

New Jersey

Office of Tourism & Promotion
Department of Labor & Industry.
P.O.Box 400

Trenton. NJ 08625

Greater Atlantic City Chamber of
Commerce »

10 Central Pier

Atlantic City, NJ 08401

' New Mexico

Tourist Division
Department of Development
Bataan Memorial Building

Santa Fe, NM 87503

New York

Travel Bureau

New York State Department of
Commerce

99 Washington Avenue

Albany, NY 12245

New York Convention 81 Visitor's
Bureau, Inc.

90 East 42nd Street

New York, NY 10017

<1 - W G
r» v' 1

Convention 81 Visitor's Bureau
Charlotte Chamber of Commerce
PO. Box 1867

Charlotte. NC 28233

Oklahoma

Tourism Promotion Division _ ,_
Oklahoma Tourism & Recreation
Department

500 Will Rogers Building
Oklahoma City, OK 73105.

Oregon

Travel Information Section
101 Transportation Building
Salem. OR 97310

Convention Bureau & Visitor‘s
Services

Portland Chamber of Commerce.
824 SW. Fifth Avenue

Portland. OR 97204

Pennsylvania

Bureau of Travel Development
Pennsylvania Department of
Commerce ,

431 South Office Building
Harrisburg, PA 17120

Philadelphia Convention & Visitor‘s

Bureau
1525 John F. Kennedy Blvd.
Philadelphia. PA 19102

Rhode Island

Tourist Promotion Division
Department of Economic Develop—
ment

1 Weybosset Hill

Providence, RI 02903

ConventiOn & Visitor’s Bureau
Newport Chamber of Commerce
PO. Box 237

Newport, RI 02840

South Carolina
Division of Tourism

South Carolina Department of Parks,

Recreation 81 Tourism
Room 83, Box 71
Columbia-SC 29202

Travel 81 Convention

Charleston Chamber of Commerce
PO. Box 975

Charleston, SC 29402

South Dakota

Department of Economic ,& Tourism
Development

217 Joe Foss Building

Pierre, SD 57501

North Dakota .

North Dakota Travel Division
State Highway Department
Capitol Ground ' ‘ '
Bismarck, ND 58505 , .

Ohio

Ohio Office of Travel & Tourism
Ohio Department of Economic &
Community Development.

PO. Box 1001 7 ‘
Columbus, OH 43216

Cleveland Convention & Visitor‘s
Bureau, Inc. .

511 Terminal Tower ,
Cleveland, 011-44113,

Tennessee ..
Department of Tourist Development
505 Fesslers Lane

Nashville. TN 37210

Convention 81 Visitor's Bureau

PO. Box 224

Memphis. TN 38101

Convention 81 Visitor's Division
Nashville Area Chamber of
Commerce

161 Fourth Avenue. North
Nashville, TN 37219

Texas ,
Texas Tourist Development Agency
Box 12008. Capitol Station

Austin, TX 78711 .

Forth Worth Area Convention 8:
Visitor’s Bureau

700 Throckmorton Street

Fort Worth, TX 76102

San Antonio Convention & Visitor‘s
Bureau

PO. Box 2277

San Antonio. TX 78298

Utah

Utah Travel Council
Council Hall. Capitol Hill
Salt Lake City. UT 84114

Vermont

Vermont Travel Division
Agency of DeVelopment &
Community Affairs

61 Elm Street
Montpelier, VT 05602

Lake Champlain Regional Chamber
of Commerce

PO. Box 453

Burlington, VT 05401

Virginia

Virginia State Travel Service
6 North Sixth Street
Richmond, VA 23219

Convention & Visitor's Bureau
Metropolitan Richmond Chamber of
Commerce

201 East Franklin Street

Richmond, VA 23219

Washington.

Travel Development Division
Department of Commerce 81
Economic Development

General Administration Building
Olympia, WA 98504

Seattle-King County Convention &
Visitor‘s Bureau

1815 Seventh Avenue

Seattle, WA 98101

West Virginia

Travel Development Division

West Virginia Department of

Commerce

1900 Washington Street East
Charleston, WV 25305

Wisconsin

Division of Tourism

Department of Business
Development

123 W. Washington Avenue
Madison, WI 53702

Greater Milwaukee Convention &
Visitor’s Bureau. Inc.

828 N. Broadway

Milwaukee, WI 53202

Wyoming

Wyoming Travel Commission
[-25 at-Etchepare Circle
Cheyenne, WY 82002

Jackson Hole Chamber of Commerce
PO. Box E '
Jackson Hole. WY 83001

 




 

NUMBER TWENTY SEVEN

 

 

15

 

Kid Stuff

—

Storm Warning

When Mother Nature is cross, she’s
one mean lady! Her tantrums in-
clude howling killer winds and tor-
rential rains than can wreck an
entire community within moments.
One of her most lethal weapons is
the tornado, and the only way to
protect yourself from injury is to be
forewarned and forearmed. That’s
the point stressed in a free booklet
from the US. Department of Com—
merce. Called Tornado Warning, this
guide on how to anticipate and
survive a wind funnel will answer a
hundred questions you may have
about this freak of nature. The best
defense is a good offense. Be pre-
pared and be alert. Tomados occur
most frequently during the spring
and summer months, but that's no
guarantee that you’re safe once
September rolls around. Sky-watching
and weather awareness, any time

of the year, are required. Then if you
see the black funnel approaching,
take cover immediately; cellars and
basements provide the best pro-
tection. For anyone who lives where
the wicked winds blow, this booklet
is anything but hot air.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Tornado Warning
Mail To: Supt of Documents
' US. Government Printing
Office
Washington, DC. 20402

g: TORNADO

O‘O ‘

SKYWARN

 

Sitting Pretty

For most kids, entrance into the job
pool is accomplished with baby-
sitting assignments. And, as a first
job, baby sitting offers the opportu-
nity to learn a great deal about what
job responsibility and rewards repre—
sent. Sometimes. however, if you’ re
watching a cranky six-year—old, it s
more exasperating than enlighten-
ing. But that's where The Super

 

 

 

 

 

N; r m
TB
[:3

-\

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sitter can save a life . . . yours. This
little book lists what is expected of a
sitter~from protecting the child
from harm to providing a partner for
play. And the book suggests the
information you should require from
parents before they step out the
door: things like emergency phone
numbers and a house tour. But all
work and no play makes baby-sitting
a boring proposition, so The Super
Sitter suggests a number of enter-
taining ploys to use on your small
charges. A super sitter’s surprise box,
for example, can contain all the
ingredients for an afternoon of fun.
Fill the box with things like rubber
balls, brightly colored scraps of pa-
per, playing cards, and other odds
and ends. Then let the child create
his or her own fun. When parents
return and it’s time for the sitter to
leave, there’s a secondary reward—
even more important than the fee—
you’ve given care and comfort and _
companionship to someone in need.
And that, after all, is one of the
important lessons to be learned
while growing up.

Directions: Send 50¢ postage and
handling ' ’
Ask For: The Super Sitter
052-011-001 14- 7

- Mail To: Supt. of Documents

US. Government Printing

Office
Washing ton, DC. 20402

 

Dollars and Sense

Money’s the main topic of adult
conversation these days, yet most
people have no idea how the green
stuff got started or how it works in
our society. A free booklet from the
New York Federal Reserve Bank an-
swers these questions and many
more. In comic book form, this lively
24— —pager explains the beginnings of
barter—probably some early cave
dweller sold his neighbor a better
club and took shark’s teeth in trade.
Since that time there have been
some pretty strange “mediums of
exchange,” and it’s all been perfectly
legal. Today, most currency is the
paper variety, but, where once money
really stood for something, today's
version lacks a solid base. And it is
in explaining this current economic
crisis that this free booklet earns its

weight in gold. Once upon a time,

‘ our monetary system Was based on

real, live assets housed at Fort Knox.
Through the years, as inﬂation nib-
bled at costs, the gold standard was
replaced with a less tangible founda—
tion. One problem led to another so
that today’s coins jingling in your
jeans have half the buying power of .
ten years ago. But, understanding
why our piggy bank is cracked helps
each of us contribute to a solution.
And that’s why The Story of Money
should be required reading for all
ages.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: The Story of Money

Mail To: Federal Reserve Bank of
New York
Public Information Dept.
New York, NY 10045

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREEBIE;Q

 

Careers

Career Planning

 

Fitting Into the Future

Today’s high school student will
ultimately enter a job market that
offers a completely new world of
career opportunities from that fOund
by his father. The complexities and
discoveries of modern science and
industry present thousands of new
technical fields’to the young person
contemplating his vocational future.
The following career brochures will
provide a realistic look at dozens'of
new emerging fields and types of
training and preparation that are
required. Most information presents
the duration of the training period
that can be expected for a specific
position, where that education is
available, the nature of the training
and the employment alternatives
and outlooks for future placement in
the field.

Aviation

Fifty years ago there were only a
handful of pioneers in the field of
aviation who could call their in-
volvement a serious career. Today
aviation-related jobs account for a
significant percentage of America’s
job market. and the future bodes
even greater growth and a corre-
sponding increase in available
employment positions. Of course the
functions are becoming more and
more technical in nature and
specific training is a prerequisite for
most advanced positions. The
Aviation Careers Series is pub-
lished by the Department of Trans—
portation and Federal Aviation
Administration as part of its Avia—
tion Education Program. The careers
series examines the broad spectrum
of opportunity in the field of avia-
tion including positions with the
government which comprise amajor
source of employment. These bro-
chures Cover each specific job, detail—

. ing the salary range, working condi-

tions, locations where positions are
offered and the opportunities for

. . .
. . .
[P . .\
. .
i. F..i“:«>,;‘w.'4, ' vii-1;! ,‘ .. » '. y m»,' ,
‘- ‘ _:4t_,'_i...~ “x ‘g__._...4_,_gh.;a2..... .. .. .Am‘untqt' 'ahdi; ‘3.
_. ~ v—. . ~ ._ _‘D

 

' . .Ld- ._..~.....m--... b~A~.—.\_.._.. ... _ . ”I. I.~~T... ~41.._cd _,_
.. ,.M W'd“ r-A , .,.au. . »_._..w._». m- »w..., A

 

advancement. Individual brochures
deal with each category: Pilots and
Flight Engineers, Airport Careers,
Aircraft Manufacturing Oc-
cupations, Aviation Maintenance,
Government and Airline Careers.
Aerospace, the official publication
of the Aerospace Industries Associ-
ation, is also available with a special
feature, Women in Aerospace. Any
of these articles are aVailable free
upon request from Aviation Educa-
tion, Department of Transporta-
tion, Federal Aviation Administra-
tion, Office of Aviation Policy,
Washington, no 20591.

Energy

America’s entire energy system—
production, transportation, and
consumption—will have to be modi—
fied or replaced as we make the
transition to new forms of energr
from those to which we and our
culture are accustomed. This means
new fields, relocation of capital and
tremendous opportunity. Profes-
sional Energy Careers brieﬂy ex-
plores the many occupations which
will be developed and affected by the
changes that are foreseen in our
energr industry. There will be
energy-related careers for lawyers,
environmental engineers, urban
planners, marine engineers, and
dozens of other technical and
managerial positions. You can order
this booklet at no charge from: US.
Department of Energy, Editorial
Services, 8G-031, Office of Public
Affairs, Washington, DC. 20585.

Women’s Work

Fortunately for over half of Ameri-
ca’s population, preconceptions
about women’s inability to compete
with men for top level jobs are
falling by the wayside. More busi-
nesses than ever before are adopting
“equal opportunity" policies which
give women a shot at occupations
traditionally thought of as man’s
work Mademoiselle Magazine has
reprinted over 40 articles dealing
with women's employment opportu—
nities and how to best pursue the
career of your choice. Eleven Jobs in

‘ Television, Five Women Film-

makers and Culinary Arts Schools
and Jobs are but a few of the
reprints that examine the everex—
panding job market for women. You
can get a list of available reprints
free by sending your request to
Mademoiselle Magazine, Box 3389.
Grand Central Station, New York,
NY 1001 7. Ask for Mademoiselle’s
College and Career Articles listing.
You can then order any of them in
which you think you might have an
interest or aptitude for 50¢ postage
and handling. .

 

 




 

 

Service to Others

Maybe you aren’t sure exactly what
you want'to do with your life. There’s
nothing wrong with that. Some
people take a lifetime experimenting
with many different careers and are
more diversified and well-rounded
because of it. If the future for you is
still a wide open avenue, you might
want to look into any of the many
service organizations, either at home
or abroad, that will expose you to
sides of life and sources of fulfill-
ment you’d never find in a trade
school.

ACTION is~a federal agency under
whose direction a variety of Ameri-
can volunteer groups are brought
together. Since 1971, ACTION has
been working to bring more of
America’s mainstream into volunteer
“service through the efforts of nearly
a dozen different groups. These
groups include the Peace Corps and
VISTA along with programs for the
aged, students and other elements of
our community and culture.

Peace Corps

If you’re looking for a real adven-
ture and you’re not afraid to live in a
thatched hut, walk'a mile to work
and rub shoulders with the needy,
the Peace Corps is worth looking
into. Volunteers receive extensive
training here in America and are
then sent to underdeveloped regions

. all over the world. They live with the
under—nourished and backward
people, often in outlying rural vil—
lages, and try to show how modern
health, construction and agricultural
methods can improve the world in
which they live.

More often than not, it is the
Peace Corps volunteer who ends up
learning the most. The two-year
assignment is an experience that
will leave its mark on a young
person for a lifetime, exposing him
or her to a totally different culture
with new values, traditions and
wisdom. No doubt, the technical and
educational assistance given is a fair
trade for the satisfaction and eye-
Opening View of his fellow man that
. the volunteer receives.

NUMBER TWENTY~SEVEN

It is a difficult job, far from the
sanctuary of home, and it’s not for
everyone. But, it is in an isolated
situation like that that you learn
more about yourself. You must count
on your own strength, creativity and
character to make that new irriga-
tion project function, to introduce a
new protein-rich crop, or to Convince
people that they can make cement
bricks for their homes which are

 

 

 

 

l7

' now just mud huts. It is a challenge,

and the rewards are often personal

instead of financial or material.
The Peace Corps is for those who

are interested in exploring the un—

‘ seen sides of theworld beyond their

own environment and who are re-
sourceful enough to turn the need-
iest areas into better places for
people to live. 7 ' ‘ '

VISTA

If you’re more interested in helping
to solve the problems that we have
right here at home, then Volunteers
In Service to America may be what
you’re looking for. .

VISTA promotes a wide range of
activities designed to develop leader- ,
ship and self-reliance in rural or
urban areas in America that suffer
from the effects of poverty. The
VISTA involvement is not an end in
itself but rather a vehicle to promote
awareness of problems and means of
solutions in the local community so
that gradually the Volunteer can
remoVe himself from the scene and
leave a more active, healthier, better-
educated citizenry. .

All this takes training and pa-
tience. Of most importance'is the
fact that the individual volunteer is
willing to give of himself, to teach
fellOw Americans how to" improve
their lives and to break the cycles of
poverty that are often perpetuated
by a lack of initiative or creativity.
VISTA provides that spark that can
ignite individuals and entire com—
munities to new commitment, op-
timism and productivity.

ACTION coordinates the efforts of
the Peace Corps and VISTA at local
and international levels. Volunteer
university students with a summer
free and retired seniors interested in
community service can both help
under ACTION’s broad scope of
assistance agencies. Specific infor-
mation on any of the organizations
is available by writing to: ACTION,
Washington, DC. 20525. Or you can
call toll free: 800-424-8580. No
matter what your age, training or
abilities, there is a way that you can
fit into this network of volunteer
groups and enrich someone else’s
life along with your own.

.5!
‘_

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18

FREEBIES

 

Freebies for the Home

 

Househunter’s Guide

Washer-Dryer I nfo

 

A Home at Last

Owning your own home is one of the
central pillars of the American
dream. It can be the most rewarding
possession of a lifetime for both you
and your family, but, with the rapid
changes in both the cost of houses
and. the interest rates in borrowed
money, it is more important than
ever that aprospective buyer’under—
stand exactly what he’s getting into
as he prepares to make what will
probably be the biggest investment
of his life.

. The Househunter’s Guide intro-
duces a person in the market for a

we: um mew—m... i

1 ,
\
1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

home to the important practical and
financial issues that must'be con- .
fronted before any dotted lines are
signed. The guide shows you how to
calculate the size house, down pay-
ment and monthly mortgage charges
that your savings and income can
handle. And, once you’ve decided the
price range, you must know how to
proceed as a responsible house—
hunter. When you find the home
that fits your needs, the boOklet
explains how to go about making the
purchase while protecting your
rights and privileges as you obtain a
mortgage and move toward closing
the transaction.

Househunting can be a taxing
ordeal, and the more you know
about the business, the better off
you’ll be. So take advantage of this

-finder’s freebie, and you’ll
know the score.

. Directions:
Send a postcard

Ask For:
Househunter’s Guide

Mail To:

Chicago Title Insurance
Company

1 11 W. Washington, Suite
0837 ‘

Chicago, IL 60602

 

 

Basement Redecorating

 

Start at the Bottom .

If you have a growing family on your

. hands and are in need of a bit more

space in the house to accommodate

them, why not consider converting

your dark, ding! basement into a

. more valuable living, working‘or
playing area.

‘ The makers of Bilco Basement
Doors will send you any of several

booklets on how to make the conver— ’

sion. How To Add Valuable Living
Space to Your Home explains how
to break through the foundation and
build a block stairwell for direct
access to your basement from the
outside. For these complete do—it-
yourself instructions, send 10¢ for
postage and handling.

Ideas for a Living Basement is a
20-page idea book for recreation
rooms, Workshops and family activity

centers that can emerge from the
musty basement beneath your feet.
For over a dozen of these creative
ﬂoorplans, send 25¢ for postage and
handling.

Bilco will also send you additional
free information on their line of
basement doors designed for your
present home or for the new house
of your dreams.

All of these materials will help you
decide how to best take advantage of
the basement area and turn it into a
useful and enjoyable home improve-
ment.

Directions: Send a postcard or
postage and handling
indicated

Ask For: Desired materials

Mail To: The Bilco Company

New Haven, CT 06505

Out Gosh-Domed Spot!

It is the wisdom of the Orient that
tells us that everything runs in
cycles. And that is especially true of

' washing machines and dryers The

good people at Maytag have created ,
a number of informative pamphlets
and aids to make sure that the
cycles of their machines continue to
run smoothly and achieve the best
results. ‘ '

Removing Spots and Stains is a
handy chart that can be posted
anywhere in the house for quick
reference. It tells the best ways to
extract the stains of several dozen
common household substances from
your clothes or other fabrics.

The Facts of Laundry is a guide
for teenagers and young adults who
may never have had the personal
experience and resultant satisfac-
tion of doing his or her own laundry.
Sorting by colors, selecting laundry
detergents, the basics of bleach and
fabric softeners, loading the ma-
chine, and the do’s and don’ts of
drying are all made simple for the
rookie in the laundry room line-up.

Planning a Home Laundry Cen-
ter gives tips on the design and
furnishing of a laundry area in your
home. Equipment, work space and
decor are all discussed to help you in
forming an idea of just what type of
center you can accommodate.

25 Energy Saving Tips for: Auto-
matic Washers and Dryers and
Dishwashers can save you money,
and it doesn’t cost a cent.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: Desired pamphlets

Mail To: The Maytag Company
Home Economics Dept.
Newton, IA 50208

 

A ' - . ' ,v . . . _ . ‘
‘ . ’ . \ v.2) ‘l
‘1 1 ‘ -' ’ , , . 1' ~ ‘
é) . '1 y .g.‘ V ‘. I (A? .‘ . ‘ln
'1). .” ‘ . ‘ . . , . .~
‘ . H___.‘_ ‘_ -0... ‘ __~ , _ ..

 

 

 

. (
. guinu.‘ .._,., ,, nigh: .. > . :1; 21:34“._;::"1““': t~"‘-—-"'.“—,P'-:~—.-,,—?—‘:T.—:r:—:~r ~.—..r~r;:-::‘ “ "TL—M— ~,~ ,~~ --__.__..__ (AA

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Home Insulation

Eé'ifer Insulate Than .
Never -

 

' 'yl‘JL‘

 

.P. snummﬁ

 
 
  

“- Mt" WWWW

' ‘ ‘ 'ilf!’ I) W" 4,3; .ﬁ
RFFLELIWL A LE , l
lNSUl ATKN’V ’ i
{W0 SW“: v

iv. .. -- ‘NrquiR (:mw'm'.
.

srwwr i Q;

 

 

Elf/7: . ,_ coca. ‘,-;_-_;;JL_J

If you still don’t know that insu—
lating your home saves energi,
money and heating and air condi-
tioning systems, you just haven‘t
been listening. TV, radio and news—
paper campaigns by utility compa—
nies and tax breaks by the govern-
ment have all tried to encourage you
to properly insulate your home. But,
just in case you missed the message.
the Swingline booklet, InSulate, a
Guide to Insulating Your Home,
gives you money-saving advice on
how to use what in order to keep the
heat in during winter and out "
during summer.

The first decision you have to
make is what type of insulation you
want to install. You must consider
the area you’ll be covering, the
intensity of the weather outside, and
the amount you want to spend. The
booklet gives the advantages and

- characteristics of each different type

of insulation and covers the various
forms from which you can choose: .
[Dose fill, blanket, rigid form or batt
insulation. You can learn how to
install each different type in the
handy booklet.

You’ll also learn other common
sense insulation measures, like
using storm windows and doors.
caulking seams around windows and
installing weatherstripping wherever
necessary to eliminate air and

moisture leaks.

Find out all you need to know
about insulating your home with
this helpful freebie, and with the
money you save you can ﬂy to
F lorida, where you won’t have to
worry about the weather!

Directions: Send 50¢ postage and
handling
Ask For: Insulate: A Guide to
Insulating Your Home
Mail To: The Swingline Company
Dept. DFY
32-00 Skillman Avenue
Long Island City, NY
1 1 1 01

NUMBER TWENTY—SEVEN ‘

. Carpeting » ,.

19

 

Always Underfoo

One of the Isures’t ways to add vitality
to the appearance of your home is to

' lay down a new carpet that high-

lights the colors and moods of your
other interior decorations. If you
would like to learn a bit more about
the world of carpeting, or even if
you’d like to make it an intensive
research project, the makers of
Bigelow carpets have all the informa—
tion you could possibly desire.

Great Beginnings is a beautiful “
28-page color booklet that gives the
home decorator lots of helpful advice
on how to set the tone for a newly
decorated room by proper color and
quality considerations in selecting

, carpeting. A color wheel and direc-

tions on how to use it make the
selection of monochromatic schemes
(several intensities of the same
color), adjacent colors (those next to
each Other on the colOr wheel) or
complementary colors (on opposite
sides of the wheel) an easy affair.
Instead of worrying over volumes of
wallpaper and paint samples, you
can quickly find the color variations
that you like best. You 'can also see
examples of each color selection
scheme in its finished form in model
room arrangements.

Everything You’ve Always
Wanted to Know About Carpeting
tells you all about carpet construc-

. tion and utilization in your home.

Chances are that any questions you
may have on which type fiber is best
or the preferable underpadding will
beanswered in this informative 22-
page brochure. You’ll be a better
informed shopper if you know a few
of these basics before you burst into
your local carpet store with a check-
book and no background.

If you want a more concise over-

view of content and quality consid-

erations of carpet, A Consumer’s
Guide to Carpet Performance is
just what you will want to see. It tells
you how to select the right carpet for
the various areas in your house, each
of which may need a different carpet
in terms of durability and wash—
ability. There is a lot more to carpet
selection than‘just matching a color
scheme, and you’ll learn about these
other issues in this brief but helpful
booklet.

Once you’ve purchased your carpet,
you’ll want to keep it bright and
plush for as long as you can through

proper shampooing and cleaning
techniques. How To Keep All That
Bigelow Beauty in Your Carpet >
tells you how to get the most mileage
out of the new home furnishing
underfoot. It gives you a first aid
guide for spot removal and specific
methods for removing stains of
everything from animal accidents to
chewing gum. It tells you how to mix
effective spot removers and how to
keep that carpet healthy.

As you see, there’s no need to be in

y the dark about the many sides of

modern carpeting. These freebies Will
make you an expert, all for the price
of a postcard. ' .

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask,For: Desired Information

Mail To: Bigelow-Sanford, Inc.
Consumer Affairs Dept.
Box 3089
Greenville, $029602

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20

. FREEBIES

Features

—

U.S. Economy

Gardening

 

America’s Economy—
Read All About It

Today we hear terms like “market
economy,” “gross national product"
and “fiscal policies” but few of us
really know just exactly what they
. mean. The American Economic
System. . .. and Your Part in It is an
excellent overview of our national
financial system written in a format
that is clear and easily understood.
In fact, it is specifically designed for
school age youngsters. Illustrations
by Charles Schulz of the familiar *
characters of the “Peanuts” comic
strip help make the general prin-
ciples and concepts of our economy
come alive to children and adults
alike. . .
. 9 ~ This 20-page colorgmagazine exam-
' ines early American values and how
our specific economic outlook grew.
“from that agrarian past. It goes on to
compare Our system with socialism,
communism and other approaches
. toeconomic development. And it
explains how the various elements of
our society interact to make the
whole thing work and ﬂourish. The
govemment’s role in the economy
and the cornerstones of our eco—

 

nomic philosophy, such as competi-
tion and the law of supply and
demand, seem a little easier to un—
derstand when Snoopy and Charlie ,
Brown are doing the explaining.

‘If you want to better understand
the economic factors that inﬂuence
our lives and more easily explain to
children why they have to “earn”
their allowance, this freebie is just
what you need. In fact, teachers
might be especially interested in the
booklet for themselves and their
students.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: The American Economic
System ,
Mail To: “Economics”
Pueblo, CO 81009

 

B I ‘

uy ing Guide

 

Children at Play

Mattel Toys have animated the child-
hood years of several decades of
American youngsters. During that
time you have got to figure that the
people at Mattel have learned a
thing or twoxabout toys and others
aspects of the imaginative world of
children at play. The Toy Buying
Guide for Grown-Ups is a product
of those years of manufacturing and
developing the toys that are the
safest and most enjoyable for young
people. .
Each age of a developing child
witnesses changes in his or her
amental, physical and emotional
make-up. Mattel experts examine

“ ' ~ .1/ these developments and suggest

‘what types of toys and games are
" most suitable for each phase of a
child’s growth. It is important for

parents to realize the differences
between active physical play, manip-
ulative or constructive play, imagina-
tive play and social play, and to
provide some elements of each type
of.activity»in their child’s toy box

If you’re looking for some interest-

' ing information on how to better

understand the recreational needs
and desires of your child, this bro-
chure from- Mattel is right up your
alley. You will discover that there is a
lot of design and planning going on
to determine what is safe and stimu-
lating for your yOung one. It’s not
just child’s play.
Directions: Send a postCard
Ask For: Toy Buying Guide for
Grown-Ups
Mail To: Mattel, Inc.
51 50 Rosecrans Avenue
Hawthorne, CA 90250

Vegetable Minigardens

Don’t think that just because you’re
a ‘city dweller living in an apartment
you can’t be a first-rate farmer,
dining sumptuously on the fresh
vegetables you’ve grown yourself

right there at home. All you need is a

windowsill, balcony or doorstep and
you have enough space to grow your '
own. A twelve-page booklet from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Mini-
gardens for Vegetables, tells you how.

Indoor; gardening can be a great
hobby for children who will expe-
rience the joy of producing their oWn
food even though they live in the
confines of a big city or are kept
indoors by the weather. "Minigar-
dens” shows you which containers
are best suited to a small-scale
agricultural project and how to pre-
pare the soil for best results. You will
learn how to plant, water and fertil-
lize a wide variety of vegetables
including carrots, lettuce, onions,
beets, peppers, tomatoes and rad-
ishes. The booklet tells you how
much light and what specific grow-
ing conditions are best for each
vegetable in order to maximize the
harvest.

Send off for this freebie and find
out if you have a green thumb even
though you live on the 15th floor.
The fresh vegies and salad fixings
will make some tasty dividends.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Home and Garden
Bulletin #163 “Minigar-
dens for Vegetables”
Mail To: Office of Government and
Public Affairs
U.S. Dept.of Agriculture
, Washington, DC 20250

i
\J” ,5 ‘* (

‘i ( 6“)

'HC)
- i

(.
_/ 1/11“")
‘M 2 r:
.J—
l g
< ~ "Writ: . f

S

  

M»
.\ <$ . Mp
/

’\ ,
i’rr \
( W A \
\
! g -.

,.
f‘ l
J
Er»
.,
'—\'«

x \ ’J
/ " .
1/
\ ’y I
o

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

21

 

Free ’n Easy

—

Before you settle down to a long
summer’s snooze, give a thought to
the winter whirl you’re going to be in
come next holiday season. Here
you’ve barely recovered from last
December’s madness, and there’s
another one right around the calen-
dan There will be baking and gift-
making to do; card-signing and
carol—singing to vie for your time;
and a whole long list of little proj—
ects to complete before Santa slides
down the chimney. It’s enough to
make a body hibernate for years!

FREEBIES to the rescue! If you
take care of some of your creative
craft work now and squirrel away the
results, you’ll be that much farther
ahead when time and tempers . . .
just like the days . . grow short.
Besides, we’ve found a terrific “Free
’n Easy” that’s the perfect solution to
the perennial question: what to give
Aunt Mabel. It’s practical, yet perky,
and one size fits all. It’s a Snuggler, a
warm cocoon that you curl yourself
into on chilly winter nights so you’re
toasty cozy while you read, watch TV,
or pursue a hobby.

Snugglers, like the one we’re going
to show you how to make, were the
big rage last season. And because of
their popularity, they commanded a
pretty price at the local department "
stores. Next winter, with fuel prices
expected to be even higher, you can
expect to pay an additional premium
for these easy-to—make, delightful-to-
wear items—if you choose not to
make your own.

But sewing up a Snuggler is a
snap, and all the necessary ele-
ments are probably sitting around
your house right‘now. Here’s what
you’ll need: a blanket, quilt or spread
that’s not being used, a three-foot
long, heavy zipper or about two
dozen hooks and eyes, and some
heavy gauge thread. . .

Lay the fabric for your Snuggler on
a ﬂat surface with the finished side
out. Fold in the long sides so that
they meet in the middle, like this:

 

 

 

 

 

 

. l . r . . .
b- -—_—-—--d

 

 

Pin, then stitch, along the bottom.
Whipstitch the center seam from
the bottom up about 15 inches. Now
turn the bag so that the right side is
facing out and you’re ready to finish
off your cocoon.

If you’ve decided to use a zipper for
closing the front, position it about
24 inches down from the top. Baste
one side of the open zipper to one
side of the opening; close the zipper
and (after you’re certain the fabric is
lying ﬂatlbaste the other side in
position. Anchor the zipper firmly in
place by whipstitching the edge to
the fabric or by over-stitching along
your basting line.

If you don’t want the hassle of
putting in a zipper, you can close the
opening with hooks and eyes. Place
hooks every six inches along one ,
side of the fabric, then line up with
the other side, adding an eye where
needed. Since you won’t be doing
strenuous calisthenics in your
Snuggler, this method will work just
as well as a zipper.

Finish off the top two-feet of the
bag so that sleeves are formed. This
way your hands will be free to knit,
turn the pages of a book, or hold the
hand of a friend (heart-warming as
well as hand—warming, right?). Fold
the comers down and out toward
the sides like this:

Then position hooks and eyes where
indicated so your "collar” stays put.
For arm holes, slash the fabric bag
where marked and Whipstitch the
opening so the fabric doesn’t fray.

That’s all it takes: some simple
stitching and you just turned a
blanket or quilt remnant into a sure-
to-be-appreciated gift. Snugglers,
even lightweight ones, are all you
need to come in from the cold. You
see, your body produces enough heat
to keep the inside of the bag toasty
warm. It’s just that our skin doesn’t
make a very efficient insulation
system, so all that body heat
evaporates into nothingness. What a
Snuggler does is keep that warmth
trapped close to your body where it
can do some good. And snuggling up
in a Snuggler means you can turn
down the thermostat, so you’ll even
save more money on expensive
winter fuel bills.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

By Candi MacConaugha

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

22

FREEBIES

 

 

- Catalog Quest

 

Music Stands

The next time your chamber music
Chorale gathers at your home for an
evening of Handel, wouldn’t it be
lovely if you provided the soloists
with fine muSic stands, hand-crafted
in a style that should have dis—
appeared long ago. Ah, you say you’re
not into chamber music, eh? Well, in
fact, the music stands displayed in
the catalog of chamber music fur-
niture would be a welcome addition
to any home where music is appreci-
ated. And, in fact, these stands are
practically required if you or a
member of your family plays either
strings or horns. (Who’s to hold the
sheet music without one?) But even
more important, these stands repre-
sent fine furniture; their cherry wood
and careful detailing blend beauti—
fully with home furnishings in any
style. You’ll be proud to have the
stand standing at attention beside
the piano even when it is not in use.

Directions: Send $1.00 postage and
handling
Ask For: Catalog
Mail To: Early Music Stands
PO. Box 277
Palo Alto, CA 94302

 

. Wood Work

Toys for tots that are cast in plastic
have about as much chance of survi-
ving a toddler’s infancy as a light-
ning bug in the snow. But, when
parents search the toy market for
something more substantial, they
rarely find a kid-proof selection.
Well, we’ve just turned up a source
that’s as convenient as your mail
box. Bill Muller, the Toymaker, offers
his wares mail order and wait 'til you
see his selection! Each toy is hand
crafted from the finest wood—bodies

‘ of sugar pine because this wood

smells so good and won’t splinter;
wheels cut from beech and maple for
durability. Bill’s toys become more
beautiful with age, picking up a rich
patina through years of use. And
years is what you’ll get, for Bill is so
certain of the quality of his products
that he guarantees full replacement
should one ever break during play.
As for the selection, well, there’s just
about everything a little boy or girl
could ever dream of. Rocking horses,
cradles, teething beads, puzzles, cars
and trucks With removable “people,”
and rattles—and that’s just a sam-
pler! If you’re looking to satisfy your
small fry, send awayfor this unique
catalog. (By the way, did you see the
segment on TV’s “Real People” show
in NoVember featuring Bill and his
hand made toys?)

Directions: Send a Postcard
Ask For: Catalog

Mail To: Bill Muller, The Toymaker
Route 13
Oak Hall, VA 23416

, A Museum Piece for Your Home

There are some gift catalogs that are
so lovely that they’re almost as
special as the gifts they feature.
Museum Collections is that kind of
eye candy: page after page of beauti-
ful gifts, brilliantly displayed and
artistically laid out. And, oh the
contents! Oscar de la Renta scarves
emblazoned with a profusion of tiger
lilies. Slinky art deco reproductions
that serve as bookends. Precious
mirrors framed in stained glass. The
editors of this catalOg shop the
world over, séfécting the most imagi—

‘native items for their collection.

Artifacts from China and Japan
share pages with antiques from
France. And there’s even a bit of
whimsy for the light-hearted. First
in the just-for—fun category is a soft
sculptured hamburger or hot dog,
complete with the trimmings. Only
four inches tall, this is the pillow
with pizazz. Or, how about this: Felt-
tip mouse marking pens, shaped like
fat, comical rodents. And there’s a
cat eraser included to clean up
mouse mistakes.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Catalog

Mail To: Museum Collections, Inc.
1 40 Greenwich Avenue
Greenwich. CT 06830
Toll Free Phone:

800 243-4492

 

Go Fly 9. Kite!

Just in case you missed our special
kite-ﬂying “Free ’n Easy” or don't
want to make your own, there’s a
catalog full of the ready-made kind.
Kyte Kingdom offers all varieties.

from Indian fighterkites to Japanese

ﬂying fish to American eagles. Most
are pretty enough to serve, as wall
decorations; all offer a special oppor-
tunity for the experienced wind—
tamer.

Directions: Send $1 —Refundable
with purchase
Ask For: Catalog

Mail To: Kyte Kingdom
PO. Box 3371
Boulder, CO 80307

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘- NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

 

Free for All

.23

 

(Editor’s Note: This column is .a

compilation'of various offers that .

are of only specialized interest.
Some are nothing more than
catalogs of specific product lines.
Others haven’t been checked out
for their authenticity by theFREE-
BIES staff. Nevertheless, these list-
ings are included as a reader
service.)

0 If you ve had it with pesky ﬂies,
mosquitos and other insects, you
may want to turn the full extent of
science’s electronic wizardry against
them. A six-page catalog of zap
Electric Flying Insect Electrocutors
is available free by writing to: Gard-
ner Manufacturing Co., Horicon, WI
53032.

 

If you’ re moving, please let us know
six weeks in advance. That way, you’ll
be assured of receiving your Freebies
Magazine without interruption.

FILL IN YOUR NEW ADDRESS
BELOW, AND ATTACH YOUR OLD
LABEL IN THE SPACE PROVIDED.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Old Address New Address

Q—c

O

G)

:2

U)

.2

’82

£9

0.)

5

Q—(

0

'63

.9

cu .

"" Q)

on c:

.S 'E’

r: :5.

cs

8 E .

.ﬁ $4 . Q

t 8 a a
E u >. *5
«3 13 2:: ,_,
Z <‘. U U)

Mail To:
Freebies Magazine ,
Address Correction
PO. Box Y
Santa Barbara, CA 93102

 

 

 

0 Whether you’ve got stains on
bathrOom porcelain, spots on ce-
ramic tile or graffiti spray painted
on the walls, Institutional Pumice
ScouringStick is just what you may
need. Get a free sample bar and
additional literature by sending your
name and address to: United
Pumice Company, 2890 Empire
Avenue, Burbank, CA 91510.

O The'Edmund Scientific Catalog is

full of science—oriented tools, equip—
ment and easy-to assemble kits. It is
a perfeCt idea book to buy gifts _
for friends and to start them off on
an exciting new hobby. For the free
IOU-page catalog, write to: Edmund
Scientific, 7082 Edscorp Building,
Barrington, NJ 08007.

O A quality veneer can make even a
drab piece of furniture into a show
piece. Get a free catalog of hardwood
veneers and lumber with simplified

veneering instructions by sending to:

Bob Morgan Wood, Dept. M02K67,
1 123 Bardstown Road, Louisville,
KY 40204. I

0 You’ll be able to ,take your choice
of thousands of. tools and supplies
for the sculptor or. potter when you
get your hands on the SCulpture
Services, Inc, catalog. Write to:
Sculpture Services, Inc, 9 East
19th Street, New York NY 10003.

0 Veteran woodworkers will tell you 7
to get the right tool for the job. You
can do just that with the 98— -page
Woodcraft Catalog that features
hundreds of tools and woodworking
kits that will make your projects
easier and much more fun. It’s freeif
you say you’re a FREEBIES reader.
Write to: Woodcraft Supply Corp.,

. 313 Montvale Ave., Woburn, MA

01888.'Or call toll free: 1-800-225- '
1153, in Mass. BOO-842-1234

Q If you’re even mildly mechani- '
cally inclined, you’ll be able to ‘
assemble any of the nearly 400
unique electronic products available
in the latest Heathkit Catalog.

T hey’re easy to build with complete
information for step—by-step con—
struction. To get the catalog free,
write to: Heath Company, Dept.
510-560, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.

0 Make your own furniture and *
accessories at a fraction of the store-'
bought price by ordering the free
catalog of Woodcraft ready«to-
assemble woodworks.Items Come in
a variety of woods including oak,
cherry, walnut, birch and pine. For
the catalog of over 145 items write,
to: Woodcraft Collection, Dept. 4FK,
1400 North Fruitridge Ave., Box

1 1 74, Terre Haute, IN 4781 1 .

 

COMING NEXT ISSUE

0 If you’re contemplating a new
ook for your kitchen or bathroom,
"ou should look at the latest sinks
whirlpool baths. showers, fixtures

nd design ideas in’the new Kohler
. ‘legance catalog.

. ad services you’ve“ received (or not

- :ceived) either inside or outside

,1 'wemment, the Consumer’s Re-

: )u‘rce Handbook will tell you how
1 resolve complaints quickly and
1ficiently.’

 

your own back yard. Learn the how

0 If you’re dissatisfiedwith goods,

0 There’s plenty of time to get in
another crop of vegetables right in

ms as well as the-why’s in Growing '
Vegetables made available by good
old Uncle Sam.

0 No, Orienteering is not an
Asian form of crying. It’s finding ,
your way with a map and compass ‘
along a stretch of unknown ground
to a predetermined location. Learn
more about it next issue.

0 Canning vegetables and fruits '
is the best way to keep the ﬂavor
and nutrition of summer’s harvest
on the table year 'round. Become an j
expert with the guides available from
the Kerr Glass Corporation.

 

 

 




‘ FREEBIES Magazine
P.O. Box’Y
Santa Barbara, CA 93102

‘1 ‘ ,- V: . . , . ‘ . . . W. . ‘. x , 1 ,. 3., “if _.'__, 5“.“ _-‘...;..ujit:._,wl;>..::. ”‘5‘ ‘Jllj'ig'ii35'ﬁfpf3:1‘31-"1'9‘1’é’i-‘V":-I’.:,\“l:..l‘r“.," utf4):;‘.}3'3‘1:.,_"J‘,',I:‘i ‘,“:..-'.¢.' 3,“ 'w, My. 1;_ av ,gi _ i... ‘.-f - - ' ' it . i h",

FREEBIES editors have selected these items as being among the best and most timely in this issue. To use
this time-saving idea, ,we suggest that you clip out the labels below. and glue or tape them to your
envelope or postcard. Be sure to follow the mailing instructions in order to receive your freebies faster

and Without complications.

Fact Sheet—Firewood from National Forests
Send a postcard

 

Forest Service, USDA.
PO. Box 241 7
‘Washington, DC. 20013

 

 

 

Guide to Better Racquetball
Send a postcard

 

Ektelon
8929 Aero Drive
San Diego, CA 92 1 20

 

Stain Removal than «it: li‘iio.

Se: 1 ti a post ca rd
The Maytag Company
Home Economics Department
Newton, IA 50208

 

-"\'a"c‘r\."l » “r ‘”‘*-\(./ iii-i 'x T) , ‘4‘. '."7.-~,
trending l‘ (Mil 'iw'il ii txt‘hztiiiis Vs. zap
toenail a posit-mi (l

The Reynolds Wrap Kitchens
Dept. FM
Richmond, VA 23261

 

 

 

The American Economic System
.- Send a postcard

 

“Economics”
Pueblo, CO 8 1 009

 

1 .

M i If: i ga rd {his} is to r W get a i; es

Se n d 3 {ms tea rd.
Office of Govt. & Public Affairs
US. Dept. of Agriculture
Washington, DC. 20250

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' PHOTO! Institute for the Study at Animal Prob ems
Ooemany large poultry farms, tour or live chickens are in one tiny cage. To discourage

pecking, farmers-often debeak the chickens.

was as was or can

31 ri ht

activists

A number of animal rights groups include
humanitarian treatment of‘ farm animals as
one of their goals along with crusading for the
rights of pets, wildlife and laboratory animals.
Here are several, which will send more infor~
mation: 5
e The Fund for Animals: The Michigan field
agent is Doris Dixon, 2841 Colony Road, Ann
Arbor 48104.. Telephone: 313-971-4632.

One of the largest and most efficiently organ‘
ized groups, the fund has highly skilled field
agents across the country. One emphasis is on
lobbying for animal rights laws.

The group’s farm animal rights crusade in.
cludes supporting a sanctuary for 100 rabbits in
Simpsonville, SC. Many have come from rabbit
farms, which the fund claims overcrowd and
overbreed the animals.

Virginia Handley, field agent, Fort Mason
Center, San Francisco, Calif. 94123, has done
extensive research and lobbying on farm ani-
mals.

to Animal Welfare Educators, 27575 South River
Road, Mt. Clemens 48045. Telephone Mary Bet-
ter, resident agent, 313-463-7116.

A state-chartered. nonprofit animal protec-
tion society, the group maintains a speakers’
bureau of knowledgeable animal rights
activists. It also has a free film-lending library
and an educational material collection used by
73,000 students during the past school year.

a Michigan Animal Rights Society, 90 Oakwood,
Ypsilanti 48197. Sidney Gendin, president, tele-
phone: 313483-8173.

The organization's main goal is to influence
legislation about animal rights.

e The Institute for the Study of Animal Prob-
lems, division of the Humane Society of the
United States, 2100 L Street N.W., Washington,
DC. 20037.

A recently published booklet, “Factory Farm-
ing,” which summarizes the results of a three-
year investigation of farm animals, is available
for $1 from the society.

0 Scientists' Center for Animal Welfare, PO.
Box 3755, Washington, DC 20007. The new cen-
ter is dedicated to advanCing scientific ‘knowl-
edge of animal welfare.

The group is an organization of natural and
social scientists and animal care specialists,
lawyers, philosophers, educators, students and
laymen. ,

:/

9Aainal,.,Weliar«9 Institute, PO. Box 3650,

Washington, DC. 20007. .
Free issues of Information Report for April,

May, and June, 1977, and October, November,

and December, 1979, dealing with farm animals
are available.

Future quarterly Information Reports will be
available to members. I

 




 

By BRIAN WEISS
Free books, posters, product samples, films, services and other re-
sources are available for the asking. While some freebies are for fun
and others are money-savers, they’re all interesting and useful. Be
sureto include a self-addressed, stamped envelope or a small postage-
and-handling charge if the offer calls for one. Be patient! Allow time
for your request to be processed andmailed. Let. the companies or

organizations that provide freebies know how useful you’ve found ,

these items.
. . ' PET A~PET

If you’ve got children, then
you’ve either got pets, are think-
ing of getting pets or soon will be
asked to think about getting
them.

’ First, though, get ‘copies of

“You and Your Dog” or “You. I

and Your Cat,” available for 20
cents postage/handling EACH
from the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute PO. Box 3650, Washington,
D. C. 20007.

Each booklet lsa cartoon-style
story, suitable for reading with
your youngster, that explores the
pleasures -- and problems -- of
having a pet. Children will learn
(why Fido should stay at home,

 

 

Freebies

 

 

 

 

 

rather than trailing him or her to
school, and how important it is to
see that a pet. has proper food
and water. ,

The Institute also offers “Good
Kind Lion,” available free. It’s
something every child should see,
since it carries the reminder. that

we’re as big and capable of doing .

as much to smaller animals as a
lion might do to us.

 

 

“Suppose,” the pamphlet
starts out, “an enormous lion sud-
denly appeared right in front of
you. What would you do?” Sit

‘ tight and hope that he was a
~ good lion, which is just what

other animals must do When we
appear, the Child learns.
WHAT’S IT WORTH?
It’s too late to try to establish
how much Aunt Martha’s crystal

= chalice, which she gave you fer a
1 wedding present,
' AFTER the burglars have made
off with it. '

was worth

Your best guess won’t go far
when it comes to an insurance
claim What you need is a written

appraisal by someone qualified to ‘

do the work.

The easiest way to locate that
someone is by sending 15 cents
postage/handling and requesting
a copy of “Directory of Certified
P rof es si 0 11 a1 Personal-Property
Appraisers.” It’s available from
the American Society of Apprais-
ers, Dulles International Airport,

P.O. Box 17265, Washington,
DC. 20041.

You’ll receive a list, broken
down by states, of people who
are qualified to do the job of
figuring out what Aunt Martha’s
Chalice really is worth. '

~ BE SURE TO INSURE

What’s the real difference be-
tween group and individual insur-
ance? Do you need to supplement
your group coverage? What hap-
pens if you lose your job?

These and a lot of other

important questions are covered

in a freebie called “What You,
Should Know About Health

Insurance.” It’s 21 pages of solid
advice, written in understandable
English. (If "you’ve read an insur-
ance policy lately, you’ll know
what the OTHER kind Of English
looks like.)

©1980 Weiss Publishing Co. »
(Released bv The Register and Tribune Syndi-
cate, 1980)

 

 




   
 

Mﬂ’ ‘4...“ 17,-“.

Animal Welfare
. offers booklets_

If you have got children, then you have
either got pets are thinking of getting
— pets, or soon will be asked to think about
getting them.

, First, though, get copies of “You and

Your Dog” or “You and Your Cat,” avail-
able for 20 cents postage/handling each
from the Animal Welfare Institute, Box
3650, Washington, DC 20007.

Each booklet is a cartoon-style story,
suitable for reading with your youngster,
which explores the pleasures—and prob-
lems—of having a pet. Children will learn
why Fido should stay at home rather than
. trailing him or her to school, and how
important it is to see that a pet has proper
.food and water.

A bit of planning can go a long way
oward making pet ownership easier on
eryone—child, parents and the pet.

 
 




soon 1:11:91 sssrons 1°11:-
by Elaine Stansfield
Progress for a Small Planet ~~by Barbara Uar’(oublishen by U U Norton and Co.9 506

Fifth Ave.9 New Yorh9 New York 10036 and copyrighted by lnternatiOnal InStitute for
Environment.and Development) $13295

 

 

The author is a researcher & has written a dozen other books including “The Home of
Kan“ which analyzed statistics on urban population and “only One Earth with Rene
Dubos. Here she is concerned partly with wdrld economics in an optimistic fashion.
Alternative enersy9 sound environmental management9 and a new international scenomic
order are not9 she claims9 beyond the reach of a rational society although the in“

creasinn wealth has failed to trickle down to the average person her have science
and techonology Opened up new vistas of plenty and opoortunityo The developed world
still commands over 80% of the wealth and we are thus torn between rising demands
and diminishing resourceso She addresses the industrial order (“1 low big is the
enersy gas? )9 moves to priorities and choices9 and then asks whether we can9in time
be a conserving planeto There is a glossary9 a bibliooraohy9 and many tables of
statisticso Her last chapter contains some suggestions which might come about2
environmental teChnology9 international control of resources and money9 population,
recognition of a shared biosphere space technolop gy9 decentralization of soVereign
habits 9 etco Since this reviewer has limited confidence in the rationality of any
society9 I may perhaps be forgiven some cynicism at her optindsn.but I m not able
to question all of her statistics.

ulAnimals and Their Legal aioht5n~by the Animal Uelfare Institute (Box 36509 Washing"
ton9 Do Co 20007)

This ambitious s roject9 a survey of AmeriCan laws from 1641 to 1978 would have found-
ered but for the generosity of the? loses Foundation which footed the publication
costs9 enablinngmily Leavitt to leave her librarian job to do the voluminous re»
search Although she died before it was cemplete9 unfinished chapters were written
by devoted followers If one gets over the dull printing format of this book and
the enormous amount of fine print you can get through chapters on laws relating to:
slaughter9 lab animals factorymfarms9 horses9 birds9 transportation9 trapping9
noisoning9 fightin39 baiting9 importing, primates9 marine animals9 and the interns”
tional situationo here is an Appendix comparing certain laws by state, the winners
of the

Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute9 locations of law libraries9
~and a bibliooraphy What is spelled out is valuable although I would lil :e to see a
simp ler dinest for ecologist friends of animals. *

 

The dedication to Rachel Carson is worth repeating here: ”. o .who.Sooke for recogn

nition for the rights of all inhabitants of the earth to be decently treated by the
aO‘lPant species (man) and for the right of every species (man included) to protec~
tion against the toxic substances which he manufactures and disseminates worldwide.”
The part on the evolution of antiseruelty laws in the U So show that the laws offer
more protection than most animals usually get (a) protection from cruel treatment9
(b) from abandonment9 (c) from poisoning9 (d) provision of food9 water and shelter.
Uhich only goes' to point up that we can never relaxo The laws should be implememzedo

Peoples” Solar Sourcebooh~~by Solar Usage Now. Inc9 and Solar Liberation Engineerinﬂ
(311 South Bristol Avenue9 Los Angeles9 CA 9G0499 (213) 451-8094) $5. 00

The compilers claim that this is ”The Uorld°s Largest and Host Comprehenisve Buyer’s
Catalogue of Solar Energ y Products!” Indeed the 351 panes are full of pictures9
prices9 and other details of current technological items in the fieldo In addition
to the various tyoes of devices there is information on how to Understand solar prinw
ciples9 how to install9 and how to setat maximum tax advantages and credits Basic~
ally9 this book is best for those involved in the buildins of solar systems;~not for
the layoerson.

 

Uational Parks~~The Southwest_Parks and Monuments Association9 P.O. Box 15629 Globe9
AZ 35501 has a catalogue on bonks on the National Park Systems in the Uestopraeo

1

 

 




soor assassins
by Elaine Stansfield

Psalmist‘With A Cameras—by Gail Rubin (Abbeyville Press. 505 Park Ave.. New York
10022) $14.95. ' ' ' r '- a _:

subtitled Photographs of a Biblical Safari. this book contains beautiful photo"
graphic essays of Rubin“s travels in Israel where she went for a vacation in 1969

and stayed for 9 years. But more than that. the tender and tragic story of Gail is
very much a part of this book which is. in effect. a.nemorial. She made her contract
to do this haste—exploring the'land. animals. and plants of biblical Israeluwand
\while working on it, ironically photographing birds in flight and the nestlings being
fed their evening meal by theirmethers. was accosted by some terrOrists. and shot
down in cold blood. March 1978.- The introduction by Rabbi Michael Graetz. and the
Forward by Ayraham Yoffe. Chairman of the Israel Nature Reserves Authority. make it
plain that she was a quiet. Sensitive woman who only wanted to reveal the mystery
and sublimity inherent in every creature and its relationship between plants. land.»
and history. . .that she regretted the way most people bypass nature preserves in
favor of buildings or historical sights. That an appreciation of the-enviornmental
balance of nature is as old as time! " ' " ‘ ‘ l -' a ‘

Waste Watchers¥¥A.Citisen“s Handbook for.Conserving Energy and ReecurceSwmby’Arthur
Purcell (Anchor Press/Doubleday paperback) $4.50. ' ‘ '

Although much of the information in this book is old news to hardmcore committed
environmentalists, it is good to know such a book Uﬂs‘been published by a major

house. The author has impressive credentials as a PhD in Materials Science and ,
Engineering. and co~founder and director of a non~profit environmental research firm‘
in Washington. D.C. called Technical Information Project. Inc. The Foreword makes

a startling projection: "By 1985 We shall be spending over $10 billiOn_a year just
to collect and dispose of ourwastes.” A major'aim of this book. therefore. is to
exPlore all kinds of reCycling. not just taking our papers. bottles and cans to the
local recyclingcenter (although many Chapters explain their operation). ‘Since rem
cycling requires reprocessing. energy is used and unfortunately it may be cheaper

to use original materials unless we follow six strategies: make and use fewer pram
dUCts. use them longer. don't buy disposables. buy durables and repair and make sine
pier (use handnpowered items. get items with less packaging). There are chapter3*

on land~use planning and politics. composting. checkpoints fer your citYo and the
inevitability of a lowhwaste'society of the future. The appendix lists government~
a1 agencies invOlved. other Organizations state by state. and literature bibliograinr.

\

Guide-to Wild Food in Southern Californian—by Christopher Nyerges and illustrated
by Janice Fryling (selprublished. Box 42152. Los Angeles. CA 90042).

In a very brief forward. botanist Dr. Leonid Enari says. ”In the past when man led

a simpler life and was Closer'to nature. plants of the wilderness played an import“
ant part in his life. -He used them for fond. medicine. hunting. and fishing.

Though the wilderness plants are still with us. man today gets his food from the
supermarket, and for the health of his body and mind he goes to the doctor.“ We

are left to decide for ourselves whether supermarkets and doctors should be of para”
mount importance in the guidance of our lives. This is a most meticulously9
researched prepared book. The illustrations. although only black and white line
drawings. are exquisite and quite perfect. There are 196 pages detailing each plant;
and their most prominent characteristics. technical and common names. what parts .
are edible. how to cook. uses, medicinal properties. where found. growins cycle.

and any detrimental properties. There is a special Section at the end with chapters
on finding water. snails. rattlesnakes. mosquitoes. and muShrooms. ~There is a
glossary and an index. Some day we may all need this book.* Chris cautions us to
consider before picking any plant what we will be using it for and only to gather ,
what we will need. ”Do not strip any plant bare. for besides reducing its ability "
to produce its own food. this denies others-éthe next forager. the birds. animals. ,
and the future_generation of plants. .Man-needs.to recognize his body’s dependence
on the plant kingdom." ' ‘ . ” ‘ ' ‘- ‘ ' ' V * 1 - '

 




EREEEERHEWEEEQRHEMMEER

n‘ ECOLOGY CENTER- OE SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA m

a THE COMPENDTUM n
NEWSLETTER _ '_ _

a EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND EDITOR. NANCY PEARLMAN

MERCERWECMREEWHERE ERR

POST OFFICE BOX 35473, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 90035 - PHONE:( (213) 559- 9160

SEPTEMBER OCTOBER 1980 VOL. 8 NO. 5 ISSN (3198-9183

ECOLOGY CENTER OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA ENTERS NINTH XEAR

During the Earth Day activities of 1970 I  formulated the concept of an environ—
mental clearinghouse. By AuguSt Qf 1972 the first office in the Fairfax area was
opened. .A few years later the Ecology Center moved to share space with nine other
conservation and consumer groups in the west LosyAngeles area. By 1978 we realized
that we could be more effective by decentralizing and thus be gan using various public
facilities. Now, in 1980, volunteers throughout Los Angeles and Orange County are ‘
representing the Ecology Center and opening their homes to activities. Other agencies
are sharing their resources--the Culver City Retired senior volunteer Program collates
thousands of’pieces of'mail yearly at their center, Zero Population Growth donates the
use of their mimeograph machine (ably run by Dave Dismore) to print The Compendium,
Rﬁﬁﬂ’offers the use of‘their production room for recording "Environmental Directions"
(entering its third year of'weekly airing on commercial stations), and libraries and
offices regularly distribute our literature and maintain public reference files. We
are pleased that we are doing everything and more than we were during these past nine
yearsr As experienced and dedicated "old-timers," I and the other Ecology Center
people planw continue working to create a better environment and to save what natural
wildlife habitats are left You are welcome to get involved as we expand our conser-
vation programs. ' ‘

 

1980 IS THE ”YEAR OF THE COAST" '

Highlight the need to save our coastline. Special news is available from Year
of the Coast, Post Office Box 2708, washington, D. C. 20013 (202) 466- 7260.

PROJECTIONS FOR THE FUTURE

6 Global 2000 Progect is a report authorized by President Carter, prepared by a
number of’federal agencies, and edited by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEO)
and the Department of'State which will be available from the Government Printing Office.
As Chairman of CEO, Charles warren emphasizesthat the project does not predict the
future and that no systems analysis theories were used to extrapolate from existing
data; rather, the report projects the future and gives a sobering message.

Population--global population will increase 50% in the next two decades from
4. 3 billion to 6. 5 billion.
FoodF-food requirements will increase by 90% but land resources can only increase
‘ by no more than 4%
Deforestation and Desertification--human overutilization of the land will continue;
tropical forests will be depleted by 40% by 2000.

 

 




ELECTION SPECIAL sarong.

VOTIEG PECORDS AND EhDORSEKENTS

If you want to know how incumbents voted on environmental issues in order to help
you decide if they should have your support or opposition contact:
California League of Conservation Voters (CLCV) CLCV
124 Spear St. H Southern California Office
San Francisco. CA 94108 1355 Uestwood Blvdg Suite 212
(415) 655~5119 Los Angeles. CA 90024
(for state senators and assenblypeople) (213) 447néb33

League of Conservation Voters (LCV)

317 Pennsylvania; S.E.

Washington? E.C. ZQCOB

(202) 547M7200

(for federal senators and congresspeople)

***The Leagues also endorse noﬂe
incumbents in both political,
parties.

cgnolonrs PLEDGES

Envjrunmental Action. Suite 7319 1346 Connecticut Ave.S N.U.3 Washington9 D.C. 20003
(232) 833~18459 wants to hear which current representatives have signed the follow”
ing statements (they hone individuals will get their congresspeople to sign it):
9‘I pledge my independence from polluting companies9 and as a symbol of this
commitment refuse to accept contributions from the political action committees
of the following corporationsw-Anoco9 Dow Chemical9 International Paper9
Occidental Petroleum and Republic Steelwwso that I may always represent my
constituents in clear conscience.“

FRQPOSITION 8

 

Friends of the River9 401 San Miguel Way9 SacramentoD CA 95819 encourages voting for
froposition 8 (ACAQO) because passage would make it easier to protect California's
North Coast rivers this way: Proposition 3 would require a Z/Brdo vote rather than
a majority Vote of the Legislature to take a river out of state protection9 thus
Secretary of the Interior Andrus will feel more justified in his decision to desigm
nate than national wild and scenic rivers (which is what FOR wants).

reoPoSITIon 10

This is a referendum that would require newsnohlng sections in Lost public areas.
including places of employment. The initiative: (a) specifies that when the needs of
smokers and nonmsnohers conflict9 the needs of nonsmokers must take priority. (b)
that a nonsmoking area is provided if the area cannot be divided (c) guarantees to
every person who works indoors a nonmsnohing worn section9 and (d) permits local gov»
ernments to enact further legislation to protecr nonsmokers. The Group Against Smoke
ing follution needs donations of foodD places to hold Proposition 10 fundraisers.
prizes9 items to raffle or auction off3 and anything else that can help. Call Irene
Peterson (213) 395m8069.

TT'AHSP ORTAT IOEI

s5h- Los Angeles County Transportation Commission created by the Legislature in 1976
Ln» composed of elected local officials is responsible for allocating $540~nillion
each year in state and federal transportation dollars flowing into Los Angeles County.
This E'7,por-Jer' of the purse” authorizes the Commissioners to establish policies, perform
nance standards; and future plans for transportation systems in the county. They are
considering placing on the November 1980 ballot a measure to increase the sales tax
in Los Angeles County by %% for the purpose of improving public transportation in

the county. The Commission is authorized to place such a measure before the voters
under its enabling legislation. Their address is 311 S. Spring St.9 Suite 120‘;

Los Angeles9 CA 90013 or call (213) 626~0370.

L
D

 




mpg». WW

'\" ﬁvdU/) .. ’ g; .;
gfﬁMMsssﬁnsmmsssﬁnmmmsss

[WI ‘ E(301_0(3Y CIEN TE ROF3 SSOlJTiiEka Cl\L1ﬂFC)RN IA. fﬁi
ﬁg THE" COMPENDIUM   » x z n
a” : ~ NEWSLETTER “ -

» EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND EDITOR: NANCY PEARLMAN

mssssﬁnsmmsesﬁnmmssssﬁ

PDSWw’EJ-FFIFCEVBOX "35473.1.05 ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 90035 . PHDNE:(213)559-9160

EVSEPTEMBER-OCTOBER 1980 VOL. 8” N0. 5‘ ISSN 0198-9103

w " ' ' ECOLOGY CENTER OF 50023247sz CALIFORNIA .ENLT’ERS NINTH YEAR

, During the Earth Day activities of 1970 I formulated the concept of’an environ-
mental clearinghouse.‘ By August of 1972 the first office in the Fairfax areanas?
opened. A few years later the Ecology Center moved to share space with nine other
conservation and consumer groups in the Nest LoeyAngeles area. By 1978 we realized
that we could be more effective by decentralizing and thus began using various public
facilities. Now, in 1980, volunteers throughout Los Angeles and Orange County are
representing the Ecology Center and Opening their homes to activities. Other agencies
are sharing their resources-~the Culver City Retired senior volunteer Program collates
thousands of pieces of mail yearly at their center, Zero Population Growth donates the
use of their mimeograph machine (ably run by Dave Dismore) to print The Compendium,
KWST offers the use of their production room for recording "Environmental Directions”
(entering its third year of weekly airing on commercial stations), and libraries and
offices regularly distribute our literature and maintain public reference files. we
are pleaSed that we are doing everything and more than we were during these past nine
yearsr As experienced and dedicated "old-timers," I and the other Ecology Center,
people plan to continue working to create a better environment and to save what natural
wildlife habitats are left. You are welcome to get involved as we expand our conser-
vation programs.

 

 

5'”

 

1980 IS fIHE."YEAR OF THE COAST"

Highlight the need to save our coastline! Special news is available from Year
of the Coast, Post Office Box 2708,’Washington, 0.0. 20013 (202) 466—7260..

.9}... ”U 4, W

 

PROJECTIONS FOR THE FUTURE

Global 2000 Project is a report authorized by President Carter, prepared by a
,number of’federal agencies, and edited by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEO)
and the Department of State which will be available from the Government Printing Office.
As Chairman of CEO, Charles Warren emphasizesthat the project does not predict the”
future and that no systems analysis theories were used to extrapolate from existing.
data; rather, the report projects the future and gives a sobering message. ’

Population-—global population will increase 50% in the next two decades from

4.3 billion to 6.5 billion. ' '

Food¥—food requirements will increase by 90% but land resources can only increase

by no more than 4% y ' p ‘

Deforestation and.Desertification—-human overutilization of the land will continue;

‘LV trgpical forests will be depleted by 40% by 2000.

 

 




ELECTION SPECIAL REPQEE~

VOTIB~ RECORDS AND EﬂDORSENENTS

If you want to know how incumbants voted on environmental issues in order to help
you decide if they should have your support or opposition contact:
California League of Conservation Voters (CLCV) CLCV
124 Spear St. Southern California Office
San Franciscog CA 94108 1355 I'Iestwood Blvds, Suite 212
(415) 655"5119 Los Angeles9 CA 90024
(for state senators and assemblypeople) (213) 447u4633

League of Conservation Voters (LCV)
317 Pennsylvaniag SOE. ***
Washington9 DOC° 20003

(202) 547~7200

(for federal senators and congresspeople)

The Leagues also endorse noﬂe
incumbents in both political ;;
parties°

ogmsArs PLEDGES

Environmental Action? Suite 7319 1346 Connecticut Aveog N.U°3 Washington9 DoCo 20003
(202) 833m18459 wants to hear which current representatives have signed the follow”
ing statements (they hope individuals will get their congresspeople to sign it):
“I pledge my independence from polluting companies9 and as a symbol of this
commitment refuse to accept contributions from the political action committees
of the following corporationSnmAnoco9 Dow Chemical? International Paper9
Occidental Petroleum and Republic Steeluuso that I may always represent my
constituents in clear conscience.”7

TaQPOSITION 8

Friends of the River9 401 San Miguel Way9 SacramentoD CA 95819 encourages voting for
Proposition 8 (ACA90) because passage would make it easier to protect California's
North Coast rivers this way: Proposition 3 would require a 2/3rds vote rather than
a majority vote of the Legislature to take a river out of state protectiong thus
Secretary of the Interior Andrus will feel more justified in his decision to desig~
nate than national wild and scenic rivers (which is what FOR wants)°

PEQPOSITIQH 10

 

This is a referendum that would require no~smoking sections in most public areasg
including places of employment. The initiative: (a) specifies that when the needs of
smokers and nonmsmokers conflict9 the needs of nonsmokers must take priority? (b)
that a nonsmoking area is provided if the area cannot be divided (c) guarantees to
every person who works indoors a nonmsmching work section9 and (d) permits local gov”
ernments to enact further legislation to protect nonsmokerso The Group Against Smokw
ing Pollution needs donations of food9 places to hold Proposition 19 fundraisers?
prizes9 items to raffle or auction off; and anything else that can help° Call Irene
Peterson (213) 395~8069o ' '

TRAHSPORTATIOE

The Los Angeles County Transportation Commission created by the Legislature in 1976
and composed of elected local officials is responsible for allocating $540 million
each year in state and federal transportation dollars flowing into Los Angeles County
This c"power of the purse” authorizes the Commissioners to establish policies9 perform
nance standards, and future plans for transportation systems in the county. They are
considering placing on the November 1980 ballot a measure to increase the sales tax
in Los Angeles County by %% for the purpose of improving public transportation in

the countyo The Commission is authorized to place such a measure before the voters
under its enabling legislation. Their address is 311 $6 Spring St.9 Suite 12069

Los Angeles9 CA 90013 or call (213) 626-63700

i

 




.Boor 1291135310115 _, , 2.13

.q

by Elaine Stansfieldpx » ' "" "" it.

Psalmist‘With A Camera-Fby Gail Rubin (Abbeyville Press. 505 Park Ave.._hew Yorkf
10022) $14.95. , v _ » . . -

Subtitled Photographs of a Biblical Safari. this book contains beautiful photo»
graphic essays of Rubinls travels in Israel where She went for a vacation in 1969

and stayed for 9 years. But more than that. the tender and tragic story of Gail is
very much a part of this book which is.-in effeCt. a memorial. “She made her contract'
to do this bOOhwéexploring the land. animals. and plants of biblical Israelwwand
while working on it, ironically phOtographing birds in flight and the nestlings being“
fed.their evening‘neal by their mothers. was accosted by some terrorists, and shot
down in cold blond. March 1978. The introductiOn by Rabbi Michael Graetz. and the
Forward by Avraham Yoffe. Chairman of the'lsrael'ﬁature Reserves Authority. make it
plain that she was a quiet. Sensitive woman who only wanted to reveal the mystery‘
and sublinity inherent in every creature and its relationship between plants. land.
and history.-.w.that she regretted the way most people bypass nature preserves in
favor of buildings or historical sights.. That an appreciation of the enviornmental
balance of.nature is as old as time: ‘ = 1‘ ' - ‘ '2 "

Waste Watchers~~A Citizenqs Handbook for Conserving Energy and ResourceSmmby Arthur
Purcell (Anchor Press/Doubleday paperback) $4.50.V‘ .-. -

Although much of the information in this book is old news to hardwcore committed
environmentalists. it is good to know such a bodk has'been published by.a major‘ '
house. The author has impressive credentials as a PhD in Materials Science and p.”
Engineering. and co~founder and director of a non-profit‘enVironmental research firm I?
in Washington. D.C. called Technical Information Project. Inc. The Foreword makes '

a startling projectiOn: "By 1985 we shall be spending oVer $10 billion a year juSt

to collect and dispose Of our wastes.” Ajmajor aim of this book. therefore. is~to”’
explore all kinds of recycling. not just taking our papers. bottles and cans to theW
local recycling center (although many chapters explain their operation). :Since rem)
cycling requires reprocessing. energy is used and unfortunately it may be cheaper

to use original materials unless we follOw six strategies: make and use fewer pro—
ducts. use thenélonger. d0n°t buy disposables. buy durables and repair and make sine
pler (use handupowered items. get items with.less packaging). There are chapters

on landwuse planning and politics. composting. cheekpoints for your city. and the‘
inevitability of.a lownwaste society of the-future.» The appendix lists government- '
a1 agencies involved. other organizations state by state. and literature bibliogradur.-

- Guide to Wild Food in Southern California~~by.Christopher Nyerges and‘illustrated
by Janice Fryling (se1f~published. Box 42152. Los Angeles. CA 90042).‘ "

In a very brief forward. botanist Dr. Leonid Enari says. "In the past when man led

a simpler life and was cleaer to nature.'plants of the wildernesS played an import» ‘
ant part in his life. He used them for food. medicine. hunting. and fishing. ' ’
Though the wilderness plants are still with us. man today gets his food from.the
supermarket. and for the health of his body and mind he goes_to the doctor.“ AWei A
are left to decide for ourselves whether supermarkets and dottors should be of‘param"
mount importance in the guidance of our lives. This is a most meticulously“ » .
researched prepared book. The illustrations. although only black and white'line ,
drawings. are exquisite and quite perfect. There are 196pages detailing each plant
and their most prominent characteristics; technical and common names. what parts_

are edible. how to cook. uses,'medicinal properties. where found._growin9'cyc1e.

and any detrimental properties. There is a Special section at the end with chapters
on finding water. snails. rattlesnakes. mosquitoes. and nushrodms. There is a'
glossary and an index. Some day we may all need this book. Chris cautions us to
consider before picking any plant what we will be using it for and only to gather
what we will need. ”Do not strip any plant bare. for besides reducing its ability

to produce its own food. this denies others~wthe next forager. the birds. animals.

and the future generation of plants. ‘Man needs to recognize his body's dependence

on the plant kingdom." ' .

 




soon nearssrms . . 1 14-
by Elaine Stansfield

 

Progress for a Small Planetwvhy Barbara War5(published by W .W. Norton and Co.9 50C
Fifth Ave.9 New'York9 NeW'York 10036 and copyrighted by International. Institute for
Environment and Development) $13. 95.

The author is a researcher & has written a dozen other bool* 3 including "The Home of
hen which analyzed statistics on urban population. and Only One Earth with Rene
Dubos. Here she is cOncerned partly with world economics in an optimistic fashion.
Alternative enerey9 sound environmental management. and a new international economic
order are not9 she claims9 beyond the reach of a rational society although the in”
creasing wealth has failed to trickle down to the avers? e person nor have science
and techonology opened up new Vistas of plenty and opportunity. The developed world
still commands over 83E of the wealth and we are thus torn between rising demands
and diminishing resources. She addresses the industrial order (at low big is the
enerny gap?")9 moves to priorities and choices9 and then as s whether we can.in time
be a conserving planet. There is a glossary9 a bibliograr by, and many tables of
statistics. Her last chapter contains some suggestions which might come about°
environmental reclinology9 international control of resources and money9 population9
recognition of a shared biosphere snace technolOgy9 decentralization of sovereign
habits9 etc. Since this reviewer has limited confidence in the rationality of any
society9 I may perhaps be forg given some cynicism at her optimism but I m not able
to question all of her statistics.

Animals and Their Lesal mlﬂht8“"bV the Animal Welfare Institute (Box 36509 Washing”
ton9 D. C. 20037)

This ambitious project9 a survey of American laws from 1641 to 1978 would'have found-
ered but for the-generosity of the Hoses Foundation which footed the publication
costs9 enabling Emily Leavitt to leave her librarian job to do the voluminous rem
search. Although she died before it was complete. unfinished chapters were written
by devoted followers.. If one gets over the dull grinting format of this book and
the enormous amount of fine print you can get through chapters on laws relating to:
slaughter9 lab animals factorymfarms9 horses9 birds9 transportation9 trappin999
noisoning9 fightine9 baiting9 importing. primates9 marine animals9 and the interns”
tional situation. There is an Appendix comparing certain laws by state, the winners
of the -
Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute9 locations of law libraries9
and a bibliography. What is spelled out is valuable although I would lL ecto see a
simnler digest for ecologist friends of animals.

The dedication to Rachel Carson is worth repeating here: ‘”. . .who spoke for recog.
nition for the rights of all inhabitants of the earth to be decently treated by the
do :1inant species (man) and for the ri e9ht of every species (man included) to protec~
tion against the tOXic substances which he manufactures and disseminates worldWide."
The part on the evolution of antimcruelty laws in the U. S. showcthat the laws offer
nore protection than most animals usually get; (a) protection from cruel treatment.
(b) from abandonment. (c) from poisoning9 (d) provision of food. water and shelter.
Which only goeSQ to.noint up that we can never relax. The laws should be implememxkl.

Peoples? Solar Sburcebooku-by Solar Usage Wow9 Inc. and Solar Liberation Engineerinn’
(311 South Bristol Avenue9 Los Anseles9 CA 900499 (213) 451»8094) $5.00.

The compilers claim that this is ’The Worldvs Largest and Most Comprehenisve Buyer 3
Catalogue of Solar Energy Products.” Indeed the 351 pages are full of pictures9
prices9 and other details of current technological items in the field. In addition
to the various types of devices there is information on how to understand solar prinm
ciples. how to install9 and how to oetat maximum tax advantages and credits. Basic“
ally9 this book is best for thoSe involved in the buildine of solar systemSW'not for
the layperson. '

National Parks~~The Southwest Parks and Monuments Association9 P.O. Box 15629 Globe9

 

As 35501 has a catalogue on books on the National Park Systems in the West.préeo

 




date [0 ‘ 50 80

time

 

 

‘ while for: were out . . ~
Omen 005W /

 

 

ea code number extension
I telephoned
please call
will call again
returned your call
urgent

 

 

E called to see you
messageﬂilud 55166 1) MW
W lWC PM! (/3 W14 Mqazme
l

 

 

 

or ﬁlm/K“l gmii/ [atrial
lit/rm} ammo 0/ @0770

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii WWW till; we.




By Bria

PET A PE T -— If you’ve got children, then you’ve
either got pets, are thinking of getting pets, or soon
will be asked to think about getting them.

First, though, get copies of “You and Your Dog” or
“You and Your Cat,” available for 20 cents
postage/ handling EACH from the Animal Welfare In-
stitute, PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007.

Each booklet is a cartoon- style story, suitable for
reading with your youngster, w 1ich explores the plea—
sures -— and problems — of having a pet. Children will
learn why Fido should stay at home, rather than trail-
ing him or her to school, and how important it is to see
that a pet has proper food and water.

A bit of pre planning can go a long way toward mak—
ing pet ownership easier on everyone —- child, parents
AND the pet.

The Institute also offers “Good Kind Lion,” avail-
able free. It’s something every child should see, since
it carries the reminder that we’re as big and capable of
doing as much to smaller animals as a lion might do to
us.

“Suppose,” the pamphlet starts out, “an enormous
lion suddenly appeared right in front of you. What
would you do?” Sit tight and hope that he was a good
lion, which is just what other animals must do when
we appear, the child learns.

‘ no late to try to estab-
‘ ‘JLhalioeJazhjeL,iﬁ

 




2:;ng
W @273
~//£&:tﬂ

(A #705:
/w OJ’H/f}

d

,4...‘

 




—,.

 

a-
‘M—un-IK‘m‘ \._. Mﬁ ,- m—MWI-.M

l.
'1
l
1
l
l
l
I?
l

 

By BRIAN WEISS ' \
If you’ve got children, then you’ve either got pets,

think ab0ut‘getting them,

First, though, get copies

of “You and Your Dog” or
“You and Your. Cat,” avail—
able for 20 cents postage-
/handling EACH from the
Animal Welfare Institute,
P.O.TBox 3650, Washington,
D.C. 20007.

Each bOoklet is a car-
toon- -sty1e story, suitable
for reading with your

. youngster, which explores

the pleasures - and prob-

lems -— of having a pet.
Children will learn why
Fido, should stay at home,\
rather than trailing him on
her to school, and how im-\

Kortant it is to see that a pet

as proper food and water.
A bit of pre— planning can

‘ I l 80 a long way toward mak-\
' ing pet ownership easier on

everyone —- child, parents

7 .. AND the pet.

The Institute also offers

' f}: “Good Kind Lion,” available

’ ‘~:=' '_5I_;_;free. “It’s something every

are thinking of getting pets, or soon will be asked to\

 

child should see, since ‘i
carries. the reminder than
we’re as big and capable 0
doing as much to smaller
animals as a lion might do to
us.

“Suppose, ” the pamphlet
starts out, “an enormous
lion suddenly appeared
right in front of you. What

, would you do?” Sit tight and,

hepe that he was a good

lion, which is just what oth-

er animals must do when we 1
appear, the child learns.

 




 

”my..." w ,"n. __ my , -

/ \. MM,
BY PRTRICIA CURTIsl

. if], i.

/

Your pet and thelaw

Can y0u and your pet be evicted? Can you sue for '

[II/Ifllr' Wllll PHS

veterinary malpractice? Have lawmen the right to destroy a pet? ‘ *

How canyou provide for it after your death?

We have lived in a large apartment
for nearly 12 years. Although there
was a no-pet clause in our lease, when
we moved in our landlord gave us verbal
permission to have our two Siamese kit-
tens. Now he is threatening to evict us un-
less we get rid of them. We know none
of our neighbors have complained—in
fact, most don ’t even know we have them.
We aren’t about to give up our 12-year-
old cats, but can we really be evicted?
Don’t despair. You have an outside
chance of winning if you ﬁght evic-
tion. While leases generally favor land-
lords, the courts do not necessarily do
so. Every judge is different, as are the
circumstances surrounding each
case, and laws vary from place to
place. Legal attitudes toward ani-
mals and animal owners are
changing rapidly, according to Jo-
lene R. Marion, a practicing New
York attorney who specializes in
cases involving animals. She ad-
vises pet owners to take their
chances in court before they give
in and accept eviction. In some
cities, in fact, there are movements
afoot to make it illegal to deny a
tenant the right to have pets, un—
less, of course, the pets can be
proved to be dangerous or a nui-
sance to other tenants.

It is advisable for any pet owner
who’s about to sign a lease to read
it carefully. If there is a no-pet
clause, you can sometimes negoti-
ate to have it removed. But even
if the clause remains, according to
Marion, it does not automatically
mean you can be summarily evict-
ed if you should keep a pet.

Marion and a group of other attorneys
in the New York area have formed a
new organization, the Lawyers” Com-
mittee for the Enforcement of Animal
Protection Law, which they hope will
become nationwide or will eventually
join with similar groups that may exist
in other cities. Any attorney interested
can write to Room 27, 2067 Broadway,
New York, N.Y. 10023.

We believe we have grounds for a

malpractice action against the vet-
erinarian who treated our dog. It died
while under his care. But our lawyer says
to forget it. because the dog was a mutt
and of no monetary value. Although we
have suffered emotional loss, he says we

 

 

couldn’t collect damages. Is this true?
Traditionally, damages awarded to
pet owners have depended on the
monetary value of the animal or its ser-
vices. But some judges are beginning to
recognize stress and emotional damage
suffered in the loss of a pet. Last year,
a New York judge, Hon. Seymour Fried-
man, proved himself to be an example of
this new and, in the opinion of many peo-
ple, enlightened attitude. In a decision in-
volving a dog owner’s suit against an
animal hospital, Friedman stated: “This
court holds that a pet is not just a
thing, but occupies a special place some-
where in between a person and a piece

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ , Wis
. )' ©E Iw

of personal prOperty. . . . A pet is not an
inanimate thing that just receives affec-
tion; it also returns it. . . . To say that [a
dog] is a piece of personal property and
no more is a repudiation of our humane-
ness. This I cannot accept. Accordingly,
this court finds . . . compensation for the
loss suffered by the plaintiff.”
Our son has his dog with him at col-
lege and his roommates sometimes
carelessly let the dog out of their apart-
ment. The animal control officers are
threatening to destroy it if they catch it
wandering again. Can they do this?
Legally, they probably cannot.
While state laws vary, the pound is
undoubtedly supposed to keep the ani-

 

 

mal alive until your son has had a hear-
ing. But if the animal agency goes ahead
and kills the dog anyway, what good is
this law to your son?

He should take whatever steps are
necessary to ensure that his pet doesn’t
get out, for the dog’s sake as well as his
own. It could very easily get lost or hit
by a car. Also, if the dog should bite
someone while running loose, the animal
control officers might shoot it.

We have often wondered what

would happen to our dog and cats
in the event of our death. We have no
children or close relatives to depend on.
What’s the best provision to make now
for our pets?

In your will, you might

name a friend who has
agreed to be entrusted with your
animals, and leave a financial
provision for their care. This is
preferable to having a court
name a guardian.

Another solution for pets who
survive their owners is the Pet
Retirement Home, operated by
the Kent Animal Shelter. Direc-
tor Gretchen Scanlan has set up
arrangements whereby a pet
owner can leave legal instruc-
tions and a bequest that Would
provide for the pet’s care for the
rest of its life in this private
home. The pet would never be
put up for adoption, no matter
what its age, but would live per-
manently in the Pet Retirement
Home with a young couple as
“foster parents” and a few other
pets. The bequest would cover
everything, including any veter-
inary care the animal might need during
its lifetime. For information, write to the
Kent Animal Shelter, River Road, Cal-
verton, N.Y. 11933.

How can we ﬁnd out more about

laws that affect animals and their
owners?

An excellent book that details the

laws that protect pets and all other
animals is Animals and Their Legal
Rights by Emily Stewart Leavitt, pub-
lished by the Animal Welfare Institute,
P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007
($2 ppd). This information-packed pa-
perback gives an overview of anticruelty
and other animal welfare legislation
from 1641 to the present. I

 

 




(K‘ RIGHTS AND ROYALTlES
ATT:B.LAN”ENBERGER
Nail 15101.1(!” Q/it‘lcﬁ 229 WEST 43 STREET, UNEW YORK, N.Y. 10036

(212} 556—1988

 

 

PERMISSION TO REPRINT COPYRIGHTED MATERIAL
Date: March 12, 1979

Permission is hereby granted to: REF. NO. X 1 6974
.Animal Welfare Institute

Att: Ms. Christine Stevens 5mmnesLemwr114B99
P.O.Box 3650
Washington, D.C.20007

To reprint the following copyrighted material from The New York Times:

Text

"Trapped," by John Cakes, February 13, 1979.

Form and purpose of reprint for which permission is given (non-exclusive rights in the English Language):

In publication Information Report. One time reproduction.

 

Fee for reprinting:

 

 

 

$25.00 (token includes writer's fee)

 

Other permission which must be obtained before reprinting:

Credit for reprinting must be given The New York Times in the fol—
lowing form: “© 1979 by The New York Times Com-

pany. Reprinted by permission. Note that permission does not

include reproduction of the logotype, €bc\cn[ L]0fk~ @1111f5

For The Nev. York Times (Company

' 4 I, ’.7
March 12 197 /,
I 9 /‘7J) Wﬁk’ﬁ/‘k /2"’ "X’ "
fyllé (MRS. a. LANGENeE/ésni J

 

 




”7r: l771§2rj€€u¢¢é7r
Alina; A2511 élk. W1; 2,21... W
ﬂf/ﬂj/T I// (694‘ 7/1142]; (ﬁzu Mil/5’3"” “5‘ '
firm .1» 722 W, m #341 7,9,5- 5.» ,mgmgg
_ g ,.

#3:}... (Law/12%, 7% 137435.21. Maze/1,143.
04a

THE NEW YORK TIMES, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13,1979
3 -1 0 The recent shiftinfashion toward - States in 1975-77; nearly 175,000

 

1-; mals in thatyear alone, taken by an

 

- - - _."fun" furs has raised the demand (and ' LCOYOtBS; 21.000 badger, etc. etc. —- to :1

:prices) for pelts of relatively common .-...total of more than 16 million wild ani-
}, By John B. Oakes

 

"~ The men and women who carelessly
toss the furry skin of a wild animal
across their shoulders —- just as their
. ancestors did in the forests of North-
12m Europe and Asia several thousand
years ago —— may not know it, and if
Lthey do, surely prefer not to think
about it, but with few exceptions what
.they're really doing is ﬂaunting evi-
dence of many hours or even days of
torture suffered by_ each wild animal
whose pelt they wear.
c There is no escape from this ugly
fact, nor can it be hidden either by ridi-
cule of the f‘do—gooders” who are
-trying to put a stop to this anachronis-
‘tic form of cruelty or by the false
xlaim that abolition of the steel leg—
ThOld trap will destroy the fur industry.
it For those who prefer facts to emo-
ition on this touchy subject, a look at'
'the facts will show that:

0 The steel leg-hold trap, as nor-
'rnally used on land throughout the
cUnited States and Canada, is a mon-
strously brutal method of capturing
_wildani1rfals.

0 The overwhelming preponder-
ance of wild (as distinct from ranch-
raised) animals whose pelts are used

‘ in the American fur industry are
, . caught by the steel leg-hold trap al-
3 "though more humane, if more expen-

wild animals, usually taken by this
barbaric device.

' 1 When the steel trap is sprung on an
:animal’ 5 leg, the traumatic effect has

been compared to that of a car door

. smashing a human finger Caught be
tween the hinges. But (unless the trap.
., has been set underwater," in which

case the animal fairly quickly drowns)

the agony does not end there; it only
.begins.

The trapped animal will almost cer-

~J

..tainly thrash wildly about in terror,

"rage, pain'and panic, breaking its

- .teeth on the steel trap or the chain that
_’.holds‘it in place. Occasionally the vic-
. tim will succeed in gaining freedom,
'ﬁ‘after’hours of struggle, by wrenching
, or biting off its own foot at the point

where the steel jaws have already dug
into the bone. This is known in the

- trade as ”wring-off” and the animals

that thus leave one paw behind them

are the lucky ones. 1

The others -—- the vast majority of

:the millions trapped on land each year
' -— are eventually worn out by the
struggle and lie inert and exhausted, ‘

without food or water, until the trap
:line is visited, which may easily be
two, three or more days later At that
ipoint, the victim at last 15 put out of its

j misery, usually by clubbing or stran—

gulation —- ‘provided it has not already
starved or frozen to death It has been

estimated by Government trappers '

(and the United States Government is

"‘the biggest single trapper of all with

its indefensibly wasteful predator—con-
trol program) that about 75 percent of

2.4 -

5 Denmark, Norway, Sweden and the

.xestimated two million trappers,
,-,Jicensed and unlicensed.

m Various substitutes for, or modifica-
- tions of, the leg-hold trap have been

tried but are not in general use in this
-1 country, except perhaps for an "in—

; stant kill" trap that has its own dan—
--, gers and defects. ‘

Nearly a dozen countries, including

United __Kingdom, forbid use of the
steel leg hold trap. So, to a limited de
gree, do a few American states, in—
cluding New Jersey, where a battle is ’
going on right now to extend the prohi-‘
bition to’all counties in the state. Sena-
tors Harrison A. Williams of New Jer-
sey and Birch Bayh of Indiana have in-
troduced comparable legislation at the
Federal level. '

The fur industry itself has been en-
joying an economic revival in the last
few years, sparked 111 part by the new
emphasis on “fun” furs trapped in the
wild. The rise and use of wild-animal
furs (80 percent of which 1n the United
States are caught 1n the steel leg.hold

trap) accounts for a signficant part of
what today has become a $700 million
business.

That’ 5 why it’ s becoming more ur—
gent than ever that the abominable
cruelty of the leg-hold trap and the
needless suffering it entails be brought
to the attention of otherwise sensitive
men and women who through i510-
rance or indifference don’t hesitate to _
wrap themselves in the skin of an ani-
mal that probably died under frightful

Uswe. alternatives are available. - the unwanted animals caught in traps torture.

0 Use of this trap has already been
_, outlawed or feSU'ijfi in a number or —.. iiefdihgtthtilgmgoabfdségzglgd. 1n-
_}UIrPr?du‘31n8 countries and m a few 1..- More than six and one-half million
Amencan states. ; muskrats and three million raccoon
.,.were trapped and killed in the United

 

John B. Oakes isthe former Senior
Editor of The New York Times.

 




‘Yué!\

 

BOOK REVIEWS

 

a.

‘ ANIMALS AND THEIR LEGAL RIGHTS by
ES. Leavitt (Animal Welfare Institute,
Washington, DC 20007, 1978, $2.00) is a
compilation of essays and laws dealing with
the protection of animals. The essays com-
pare and contrast specific provisions within
the laws often from an historical perspec-
tive. This third edition, extensively re—
vised and updated, includes such topics
as the evolution of anti-cruelty laws’in the
United States, legal facets of the inter—
national wildlife and non—human primate
trade, livestock protection, trapping,
predator control, humane education, and
animal experimentation and laboratory
animal welfare.

The book has many charts and tables
providing easy access to existing legal
precedents. Texts of selected state,
federal and foreign laws as well as inter—
national conventions and directives are
given in the appendix. These extracts
make this book unique since many statutes
are often cited in the literature but seldom
referenced in full. The inclusion of a com—‘1
prehensive index and more extensive bibli-
ography, however, could have enhanced
this publication. ,

In summary, this book is an excellent—J”
resource for anyone seeking concise in—
formation on the legal aspects of animal
welfare or as a starting point for anyone
pursuing an in depth review on any of
the relevant topics.

- M. Morrison —

 




To: Readers of Jeff Diner's Physical and Mgnga; Sugggring.gg
ExggrimentalmAnimalg

Pram:

Lean Bernstein, AWI Censultant in Physiology

In re$pon$e to your recent XAquest a copy of ngsigg;_§gQ
igtha; Q fgering‘ggw' .- ~ .“ AnimaQs by Jeff Diner was sent
to you. we woulé greatly appreaiate learning of your impressioAs
of the rayort and any comments or suggastions you care to make Q

concerning future eéitions. A se1f addressed envelope is enclosed
for your convenience in responding‘

Cﬁmmenta:

 




To: Readers of.ng§Q;§§9;g,anr§egs f9; Laboratggy Animals
and.EQgsiga; and Manta; nggeri g 9§_E§Egr;gental.hnima;3

From: ~Leon Berstein, AWI Consultant in Physiology

Recently copies of.AWI‘8 ggmfortagle‘ggarters.§g§
W W mt}. ME Diner’s 4;“: seal w. W
ﬁggﬁgxéggngg,ggegrimenta; ggéggig were sent to you at your
request. we are gathering comments on these publications and
would be grateful for your comments or any advice or suggestions
you may wish to make concerning future editions, A self
addressed envelope is enclosed for your convenience in responﬁing.

Cments :

 




To: Readers of Comfggteble ggergers for Labgratogx Animals

From: Leon Bernstein, AW! Consultant in Physiology

Recently a copy of ngfcrteble Quarters f9: Laboratgry
Animals was mailed to you in response to your request. 'We
are gathering comments on this publication and would be
grateful for your assessment of its usefulness anﬁ for any
advice or suggestions you may wish to make concerning future
editions. A self addressed envelope is enclosed for your
convenience in responding.

Cbmmente:

 




