itinbness to

Q1! «Creatures

 

 

‘ ‘ Little

Lorraine Gibbs, and Sheppie,

a Rescued Dog.”

gm’mal Belief arm isumane (mutation leagur
Miss Virginia W. Sargent, President
322 E St. N.-E. Washington, D. 4C.
Phone, Lincoln 8578

A SCHOOL PROGRAM FOR “BE KIND TO ANIMALS ANNIVERSARY” WEEK
(occurring annually in April) AND FOR GENERAL USE, FOR GRADES 4, 5 & 6.
Prepared by Virginia W. Sargent

WHAT IS “BE KIND TO ANIMALS
ANNIVERSARY”?——BE KIND TO ANI-
MALS ANNIVERSARY is a whole week
in which we are all asked to think together
of just how grateful we should be to all
our animal friends and helpers, and how
in return for the happiness and comfort
they give us, we should practice the
Golden Rule toward them, not only to
make them more happy and useful,
but to help us grow into noble men
and women and do great deeds of
mercy for all kinds of animals, for little
children and old folks, who are ill—treated.
Wléat great friends and helpers these ani—
mals are! The beautiful birds not only
cl:eer us with their sweet songs, but they
eat millions of insects which would eat up
all our crops of fruit, grain and vegetables.
The horse has helped us ﬁght our battles,
build our cities, and plow our farms; the
gentle cow gives her milk and the sheep
l:er wool; and for those who make the
mistake of eating meat, the turkeys,
chickens, little lambs, calves and pigs give
up their lives. What is home without our
frisky dog and purring kittens, or the
summer woods without the gay little squir—
rels and soft brown bunnies? Yet some
grown folks and boys and girls are not kind
to these beautiful creatures; they starve and
leave in the cold their horses and dogs and
go into the woods and shoOt the singing
birds and frisking squirrels.

WHAT
ANIMAL RELIEF AND HUMANE‘;
EDUCATION LEAGUE? ‘

The Animal Relief and Humane Educa-

tion League feeds and rescues hundreds of
cruelly treated, suffering, Ideserted, lost,
stray, unwanted, sick and injured cats, dogs

IS THE WORK OF THE‘

and other small animals and birds in Wash—
ington and the nearby countryside.

We have worked very hard to feed and
rescue the many, many poor cats, both pets
and strays, left around when occupants
moved away from the houses and buildings
along, and for many blocks around Penn—
sylvania Avenue N. W., which were to be
torn down to make way for the great new
Government buildings. Most of the cats
had become so wild they had to be captured
in our specialhumane way and chloro-
formed.

Wherever we ﬁnd houses in other places
being torn down or several houses for rent
or sale, we ask the neighbors if any pets
have been left behind, and personally go
around to the back yards and alleys and
look for them. We often ﬁnd a mother cat
with a whole family of kittens, and some-
times a dog and puppies. If they are wild
we have to feed and coax them for several
days before we can get them to know we
are their friends, and want to help them.

We also bring many lost and stray dogs
to our shelter, keeping them at least two
days to give any possible owner a chance
to claim them. We watch the lost dog ads
in the newspapers and often advertise a
dog as found. Sometimes hours are spent
over a pathetic, terriﬁed lost or stray dog,
but how worthwhile when we ﬁnally suc-
ceed in rescuing it! Often more than one
day is required over a single animal.

Unless we can ﬁnd really good and kind
homes for dogs and cats we put them to
sleep with chloroform so they will never get
lost or suffer in any way again.

We also note cruelly treated and neglect-
ed horses, and report them to the police
ofﬁcer of the Humane Society. At Christ-
mas time we give free dinners to poor

 

 




 

horses, and sometimes at other times help
a poor, kind man with feed for his faithful

servant.

If you boys or girls living in or near
Washington see or know of a cat or dog
someone has moved away and left, or of
a homeless stray one in your neighborhood,
either bring it to us at 322 E Street N. E.,
or 303 E Street N. E., write us, or phone
Lincoln 8578 or Lincoln 1105—]. Try to
coax it near your home and feed it until
we can get there. Also look out for any
cruelly beaten, overloaded and starved look—
ing horses. Take down any name and ad—
dress on wagon so we may report the case.
Never pass by a homeless starving animal
without at least trying to do something for
it. «By watching out for unhappy animals
youw will be making your own selves happy
and noble.

WHAT FAMOUS PEOPLE WHO
WERE KIND TO ANIMALS WHEN
YOUNG GREW UP TO BE GREAT
AND BELOVED BENEFACTORS OF
MANKIND? 4

Several. years before the Civil War a
man started in New York City the ﬁrst
society to protect animals from cruelty.
Everybody made fun of him and called him
crazy. One day this man heard of a little
girl whose parents beat her terribly and
chained her in the house for many months.
He brought Mary Ellen to his animal pro—
tection society and a few years later found—
ed the ﬁrst society for the protection of
children. Today we honor the name of
HENRY BERGH.

Kindness to animals helped one boy be—
come President of the United States. This
boy’s father and brothers were great
hunters and trappers of the wild animals
of the woods around their Kentucky log
cabin, but he would never help them. He
found a little dog once with a broken leg.
He tenderly bound up the leg and took the
dog home. He named him Honey, and
every night in his prayers asked God to
watch over Honey and make him a good
dog. Once Honey saved his master’s life
by barking for help when the boy became
caught in a cave between two rocks.

When this boy became a young lawyer,
he was traveling one day with several other
lawyers and as they passed a wood he
noticed a little bird fallen out of its nest,
lying helpless on the ground. They rode
on, but in a short while our young friend
turned back to where the little bird lay
ﬂuttering, picked it up very gently and
placed it on a limb of the tree near its
nest. The other men made fun of him, but
he said, “I couldn’t have slept tonight if I

had left that little helpless creature to die

on the ground.”

Soon afterwards this young man became
President of the United States and freed all
the colored people of the country from
slavery. Today ABRAHAM LINCOLN is
called the greatest American.

bf ’ ”'7‘ "
C/(Ifr/ .1, a

" n . -;‘
,

Over in England there was a little girl
whose mother and father had plenty of
money and lived in a beautiful home. They
wanted to buy their little daughter many
things to make her happy. but she was
happiest playing with her dolls, pretending
they were sick and nursing them back to
health, and feeding and caring for the

.homeless cats and dogs in her neighbor—

hood. The children always came to her
when their pets were sick or injured. Her
very ﬁrst patient was an old shepherd’s
dog, called “Cap,” who for several years
faithfully helped his master with the sheep.
One day some bad boys threw stones and
hurt “Cap’s” leg so badly that the shep—
herd decided he would have to kill him to
end his suffering, but the little girl found
out about the dog and, with her old friend,
the minister, went to see him. They found
his leg terribly swollen, but not broken.
The little girl spent all day bathing the
poor leg in warm water. When the shep-
herd came sadly home that night, what was
his surprise to see his dog limping up to
meet him! He soon went back to help his
master with the sheep.

When FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE
became a young woman she left her beau-
tiful home to nurse some poor suffering
soldiers in a far away land called Crimea,
where there was a terrible war and where
there were no Red Cross nurses as we
have today. This young woman became
a great nurse and was called “the angel
of the Crimea” by the soldiers. She nursed
many, many suffering people, but she never

forgot her ﬁrst patient, old “Cap,” the
shepherd’s dog.
WHAT DO GREAT POETS AND

WRITERS SAY ABOUT BEING KIND
TO ALL CREATURES?

Poets have sought to express: themselves in
behalf of man’s animal friends and helpers. In
the following selections of verse they breathe; praise
for the virtue of universal love, voice their pro-
test against some of the great wrongs inﬂicted
by their fellowmen upon those who cannot speak
for themselves, and sing beautiful tributes to the
faithfulness and devotion of these four-footed and
winged benefactors.

Stephen Coleridge says: “All truly great
poets teach sympathy towards animals
given into our dominion, so forlornly and
helplessly, enjoining us as does Words-
worth in his ‘Hart Leap Well’.”

“Never to blend our pleasure or our pride
With sorrow of the meanest thing that feels.”

Ruskin has said that: “All holy and humble
men of heart and the truly brave, all
those who love God and their fellowmen,
of necessity are merciful to animals.”

Browning tells us:
. ‘ “God made all the creatures and gave them our
~ . love and our fear,
' To give sign we and they are His children, one
family here.”

Cowper goes still farther and exclaims:
“I would not enter on my list of friends,
Tho graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.”

 




 

Longfellow rightly claims that:
“Among the noblest in the land,
Tho he may count himself the least,
That man I honor and revere
Who without favor, without fear,
In the great city dares to stand,
The friend of every friendless beast.”

Wordsworth says the man Whose heart en-
folds all creation gets the fullest measure

of love.
“Birds and beasts,
And the mute ﬁsh that glances in the stream,
And harmless reptile, coiling in the sun,
And gorgeous insect, hovering in the air,
The fowl domestic, and the household dog,
In his capacious mind he loved them all.
Their rights acknowledging he felt for all;
* * * Rich in love
And sweet humanity, he was, himself,
To the degree that he desired, beloved.”

SONG—Let us rise and sing a song Miss
Sargent has written for us. It is called

BE KIND TO ALL GOD’S CREATURES
Be kind to all God’s creatures,
In earth and air and sea;
Our Father placed us o’er them
And we must faithful be.
Tho we may be their masters,
We must not them oppress;
Their Maker bids us love them.
And guard their happiness.

Be kind to all God’s creatures
In earth and air and sea;
Our Father placed us o’er them
And we must faithful be.

Be kind to all God’s creatures,
Lest we forget Love’s creed,

Lest we should wound and wrong them
Because of selﬁsh greed.

Greed makes us trap and slay them,
Imprison, starve and beat,

But God’s ear hears their moaning
From His great mercy seat.

Refrain :

Refrain:

Be kind to all God’s creatures,
Lord, help us do our part
To fan the spark of mercy
In every human heart
Till glowing deeds of kindness
O’er all the earth increase,
And brother man and creature
Will dwell in love’s sweet peace.

Refrain :
(To tune of “Onward, Christian Soldiers”)

Note to Teacher: Whenever possible, show
pictures to illustrate the following selec-
tlons, or the happy opposite.

SELECTIONS FOR RECITATION:

What boy doesn’t love a dog, and What
dog doesn’t love a boy? And what is more
pitiful than a poor homeless, or lost dog,
and what boy could refuse to feed and
either take home or to the animal shelter
any poor dog that comes up to him with
eyes pleading for a friend?

THE DOG—
MAN’S MOST FAITHFUL FRIEND

Pals
By Charles F. Doran

When you’re feeling sad and lonely
And your “friends” all pass you by,

When there doesn’t seem a single thing
But to crawl away and die,

When the world is black and hollow,
When you’re buried in your woes—

Then, there comes a bark of welcome
And a touch of cold nose.

While two hairy paws are clawing
To scramble on your knees,
And a bushy tail is wagging,
Two brown eyes say, “Master, please,
Let me crawl upon your bosom,
Let me take my rightful place,”
And trying hard to lick the tear
That’s streaming down your face.

Cvauld you ﬁnd a better fellow
If you searched the whole world through,
Who would stand by you in trouble
And would always be true-blue?
In his mind there is no- question
If or not the Master’s right——
He’s your pal if you’re a pauper
Or if you’re a man of might.

Feed him then and give him shelter,
Water when the sun, is hot;
Do not be a selfmade heathen,

What would you, if God forgot?
You’re his god, friend, please be: mindful,
Do not let your memory clog,
Folk will know how large your soul is,

By the way you treat a dog!

THE CAT-—
OUR PURRING LITTLE FRIEND

How happy she is when loved and cared
for; how miserable and pitiful when peo—
ple move away and leave her or deliberate-
ly turn her out into the cold!

A City Stray
By Minnie Leona Upton

By day she lurks in corners dim and chill,
Half dozing, yet alert for instant ﬂight,

Biding her time, in bleak discomfort still,
Until released from fear by dusky night.

Then, stealing forth on soft and noiseless feet,

Like a small wraith she makes her cheerless round,
To seek for any little morsel, sweet,

Bitter, or mean—whatever can be found.

From barrel bare to frozen fare she goes,

Glad for the leavings of some well-loved pet,
Still with a watchful, wary eye for foes,

That may be sleeping, but will not forget.

Then, with the ﬁrst gray gleaming of the dawn,
When milkmen’s carts clatter through street,

Back to some hiding-place she has withdrawn,
Still furtive, fearful in her dull retreat.

Was she, in days gone by, a pampered pet,

Used to soft cushions and abundant fare,
Abandoned when her careless owners let

Their home, moving where “cats would bea care”?

Was she a native of some dumping place,
Some old deserted shed? Howe’er it be,
Heaven heed her little wistful face,
And give us hearts to feel, and eyes to see!

THE HORSE—[AND OTHER BURDEN

BEARERS — THE MULE, DONKEY,

CAMEL, OX, ELEPHANT, ETC. —-
MAN’S FAITHFUL SERVANTS

The so—called “beasts of burden,” horses,
mules, donkeys, camels, oxen, etc. have for
ages served mankind, from plowing his farm
and helping to build his cities, to ﬁghting
his battles. For these services thousands
of these faithful friends receive only in—
gratitude and scant food and shelter from
their masters, but happily hundreds of
others are really appreciated. I know we
all feel sorry for the horses and mules
torn by shot and shell in battle. The great
poet, Ella Wheeler Wilcox, who died only
a few years ago, has left us these beautiful
verses in tribute to the faithful battle steeds.




The Horse
By Ella Wheeler Wilcox

The man who goes into the ﬁght
With the heart of a volunteer
Has the high ideal of doing right
To conquer his pain and fear.
And the man who is forced to go,
Has his pride, and his will and his faith
To help him over the road of war
To the goal of a crutch, or death.

But the steed that is dragged from his stall,
To be plunged in the hell of war—
VVhy—what does he know of the country’s call,
Or the cause he is suffering for?
And I think when he lies in his pain
Tortured and torn by the fray
He must long for the touch of a hand on his mane
And the ﬁelds whgre *he*us§d to play.
*

The horse has no passion to kill

Like man and the tiger and bear;
Yet slave of a murderous will

To the front of the ﬁght he must fare.
Now the heart of a horse has love

For the master and home it knew;
And the mind of a horse can prove

That memory dwells there, too.

Oh, I think on the blood-red sod
Each wounded man prays to God,
And I think from the heart of a steed
There must rise in his hour of need
A cry for his master who, seems
A god in his equine dreams.
(Copyright 1933, New York American)

CIRCUS ANIMALS

When we go to the circus next let’s
ask ourselves if the animals really enjoy
doing all those tricks? If we stop to
think we’ll decide that perhaps they don’t.
How would you like to be made to do a
lot of foolish tricks that you hate, and be
punished with iron bars, hot pokers, long
sharp whips or electric prods if you didn’t
do them when you felt tired or hungry?
Have we any right to take the lions and
tigers from their green jungle homes and
starve and beat them to make them do
these foolish tricks; or what right have we
to starve a loving little dog until he climbs
a step ladder and leaps down; or jumps
through a hoop, or dances on his forelegs

to get a bit of food for reward? VVouldn’t
lie rather be fed regularly and go out
romping with a boy like you? Hear what

this little dog says:

Sandy of the Sawdust Ring

I’m Sandy of the Sawdust Ring,
Who never tries to bite,
I’m just a harmless little dog
With coat of tan and white;
You often see me at the show
In town on Circus Day,
When round the Sawdust Ring I prance,
My many tricks to play.
Sometimes they dress me up in frills
To imitate the clowns,
And if I do not act quite right
My master darkly rowns;
’Tis then I strive my best to please,
Or else I’ll surely get
More brutal kicks, for circus dogs
Aren’t meant to love and pet.
You laugh and cheer me as I leap
Through hoops and over bars,
Yet do not dream that ’neath my coat
Are many cruel scars;
For ev’ry clever trick I know
I’ve learned through greatest pain,
On tired legs I’m made to act
All for another’s gain.
My master stands with whip in hand
To see me play my part,
Though often weary, I obey,

For fear is in my heart;
A kindly word, a soft caress,
To me would heaven be—
But gentle treatment such as this
Is not for dogs like me.
So when you chance to come again
To town on Circus Day,
And watch me scamper round the ring,
My many pranks to play,
0, let a little prayer go up
That master ll treat me fair—
Who knows but that it might not reach
The great White Throne up there!
——-By Erroll Hay Colcock, In Our Dumb Animals.

ZOO CAPTIVES

Also, the next beautiful sunny day you
go to the 200 for a romp and to look at
the animals, won’t you stop just a few
minutes and say to yourself, “How would
1 like to be shut up in one room all my
life, perhaps in a strange lanld far away
from my real home, and never allowed a
bit of freedom?” You would shake your
head, ‘,N‘o no.’ ’Now think of those animals.
They are shut up for life in iron cages,
never again to see their homes in the woods
and jungles of this country or lands far over
the sea. Many of them, like the lions,
tigers, leopards, ,etc., and the wonderful
eagles spenld day after day inside theiriron
bars, longing, oh so terribly, for freedom.
Have men any right to make animals and
birds life prisoners when they have done
no wrong, simply to amuse us a little?
Here is what they are trying to say to you
as you stare in at them.

Life Prisoners

With sad eyes turned on you and me
They speak to us the wordless plea,
“O give us back our liberty;

We pine in anguish here.”

The iron bars, the fast closed door,

The thoughtless crowds that look them o’er,
As fretfully they tread the ﬂoor,

And long for freedom sweet.

The lonely nights, the homesick sighs
For life beneath dear native skies,
The weird and wordless prisoners’
For precious liberty.

The ceaseless pacing of the cage,

The snarls of menace, roars of rage,

Or brooding silence thru an age

Of days with longing ﬁlled.

Yet still so selﬁsh, stupid, blind,

We let our children peer behind

The bars for knowledge they can’t ﬁnd
In poor imprisoned beasts.

Nor teach ’tis cruel to oppress,
That God is love and tenderness,
And does in us these virtues bless,
When shown toward all His earth;

That better far from nature books
We learn of wild things’ ways and looks,
Their work and play, and dear home nooks——
NOT from the cruel 200.
By Virginia W. Sargent,
In Our Dumb Animals (1921), National Humane
Review, Baltimore Sun, etc.

In the Zoo

Exiles, they tread their narrow bounds
Behind the iron bars.

Where’er they turn the hand of man
Their straining vision mars,

Save only when at night they gaze
Upon the friendly stars.

See! there a golden eagle broods
With glazed, unseeing eyes

That never more will sweep the snows
Where blue Sierras rise;

And there, sick for his native hills,
A sullen panther lies.

cries

 




 

 

What dreams of silent polar nights
Disturb the white bear’s sleep?
Roams he once more unfettered where

Eternal ice-ﬂoes sweep?
What memories of the jungle’s ways
Does that gaunt tiger keep?

Exiles, they tread their narrow bounds
Behind the iron bars,

For thus the ruthless hand of man
Each God-made creature mars.
But oh, what hungry eyes they raise
Up to the friendly stars!
By George T. Marsh, in Dumb Animals.

Teacher: Show picture of lion in natural
haunts and one behind iron bars at 200
0r circus, and ask pupils which they prefer.

Birds

loves the beautiful birds and their
cheery, sweet songs. What a help they are to
mankind, also! Several years ago an agricultural
scientist said that birds save our country over a
million dollars a year by eating the bugs and insects
which would destroy our fruits and grains. Another
man has said that if all the birds were killed off
the earth man could not live, for insects would
eat up every green thing. And yet some people
want to kill the beautiful birds because they eat
a few cherries and berries a few days in the year,
and some shoot them just for pure sport. There
have been many wonderful poems written about these
lovely creatures; here is just one. It is called,
“The Oriole’s .Nest.”

The Golden Orlole
From the high tree-top while the morning’s new,
A rolling note, round, full and true,
The oriole tunes to the sun’s clear light,
The golden song of the May-time bright.
The yellow May-buds to the light unfold,
But they’ve no voice, their joy is untold,
Till the oriole sings, and a note of gold
To the great round golden sun is rolled.
—By Mabel Dean, In Our Dumb Animals.

Everybody

Boys, there are two ways to catch birds.
Here is one way:

The Murderer
’Tis not that he has killed a man,

Or bathed his hands in human blood,
Nor yet that he’s closed heart and hand
Against the world’s great brotherhood;
But he’s a murderer. As such I brand
The boy that stalks in ﬁeld and wood

And kills the little birds.
He’s taken life, he’s hushed a song
That did its best and asked no meed,
To help this weary world along—
And sure ’tis song we mostly need.
But what is far the greater wrong,
He’s hurt God’s heart and made it bleed—
He’s killed His little birds.

And here Which will you

choose?
I’ll tell you a secret that I heard—
The perfect way to catch a bird.
Just get a bird book, called a guide,
And with ﬁeld glasses at your side,
Go out into the woods and see
The bird perched up in some tall tree;
Stop, too, and hear his melody——

You’ve got him!
—By Leland B. Jacobs.

WHO IS THE R-E-A-L SPORTSMAN?

In the beautiful fall of the year we hear
a great deal of talk about the “sport” of
hunting. Men and boys arm themselves
with guns, and tramp stealthily thru the
red and gold leaves of the woods ﬁring
their cruel bullets at everything they see,
from the birds and squirrels to the beauti—
ful, timid, graceful deer. A man whose name
happens, to be “Hunter” but whom I’m sure
is not one, speaks to us for the deer, in
his verses:

is the other.

As a Deer Sees it

My home is here among the hills,
Where vagrant breezes wander free
O’e-r sparkling lakes and laughing rills,
While sing their happy songs for me.
Beneathe the rocky crags I roam
\Vhere, in the spring, arbutus shows.
’Tis here I live and make my home,
In spite of winter’s blinding snows.

I' wander over fertile ﬁelds,
Through tangled brush and mossy fen,
I linger where all nature yields
[ts peaceful stillness in the glen,
And all my life would be a joy
If men would let me wander free,
But they their cruel guns employ
To pester, maim and slaughter me.

What have I done that I should pay

The price supreme and give my life?
What have I done—you hunters, say,

I deal in neither stress nor strife,
I eat enough to keep alive,

And He who made the great and small
Intended that I should survive:

But you would kill us, one and all.

My brothers and my sisters ﬂee
Before the cruel, roaring gun,
I have no doubt you’d slaughter me
And think it naught but harmless fun.
Oh, heartless hunter, pause, survey
The suffering that your practice brings,
Ere you take up your gun to slay
The shyest of God’s living things.
By D. A. Hunter, Jr.,
In “Our Dumb Animals.”

Now there is another sportsman—~THE
BLOODLESS SPORTSMAN, who takes
a camera instead of a gun.

I go a—gunning, but take no gun;
I ﬁsh without a pole;

And I bag good game and catch such ﬁsh
As suit a Sportsman’s soul;

For the choicest game that the forest holds,
And the best ﬁsh of the brook

Are never brot down by a riﬂe shot
And never are caught with a hook,

The woods were made for the hunters of dreams,
The brooks for the ﬁshers of song;

To the hunters who hunt for the gunless game
The streams and the woods belong.

By Sam W. Foss.

'Which kind would you rather be?

TRAPPED FUR-BEARERS

Girls and women like to dress themselves
up in the skins of animals made into coats
and scarfs. Do they ever think of how
these are caught in the cold northern
woods? Our great American poet, Edwin
Markham tells us in these verses of

The Fate of the Fur Folk
By Edwin Markham

Early, while the east is pale,
The trapper is out on the frozen trail;
Cruel traps are on his back,

. Snares to line the woodland track;
Day by day he links the chain
Of these grim machines of pain,
In whose merciless iron jaws
Little fur folk die, because
Men must high on fortune ride,
Women have an hour of pride.

Squirrel, ermine, sable, mole

Out for food from cliff and hole;
Muskrat, silver fox and mink,

At the stream for evening drink——
All are tempted to this snare

For the skins you ladies wear *
Ladies, do you think of this—
Up where tempests howl and hiss,
Where the folk of hill and cave
Scream with no one there to save?
Do you see them crunched and lone,
Steel teeth biting into bone?

 




Ladies, did you ever see

An otter gnawing to get free?
Gnawing what? His fettered leg,
For he has no friend to beg.

Do you see that to1tured shape
Gnaw his leg off to escape?

Have you seen these creatures die
While the bleeding hours go by—
Those poor mothers in the wood
Robbed of joy and motherhood?

Do you, when at night you kneel,
See them in their traps of steel——
Not alone by pain accurst,

But by hunger and by thirst?

Do you hear their dying cries
When the crows pick Out their eyes?

Yes, sometimes in dreams you hear
Yells of agony and fear

From the sna1e of iron teeth.

With that panting thing beneath,

F01 all night, where storms are whirled,
Groans are curdling the white world—
Groans of mothers dying so,

Groans of little ones that go
Homeless, hungry in the snow.

* Substituted.

James Stephens gives us also these
tiful little verses:

Little Things

Little things that run and quail

And die in silence and despair;
Little things that ﬁght and fail,

And fall on earth and sea and air;

All trapped and frightened little things,

The mouse, the coney, hear our prayer,

As we forgive those done to us,
The lamb, the linnet, and the hare.

Forgive us all our trespasses,
Little creatures, everywhere.

By James Stephens,

In Child Welfare Notes.

ALL OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

For he who would trample kindness
And mercy into the dust——
He has missed the trail, and his quest will fail;
He is not the guide to trust.
Oh shame on the mothers of mortals
Who have not stopped to teach
Of the sorrow that lies in dear, dumb eyes,
The sorrow that has no speech.

Oh, never a brute in the forest,
And never a snake in the fen,
Or ravening bird, starvation stirred,
Has hunted his prey like men.
F01 hunger, and fear, and passion
Alone drive beasts to slay,
But wonderful man, the crown of the plan
Tortures, and kills, for PLAY

He goes well 1ed from his table;
He kisses his child and wife;
Then he haunts a wood, till he orphans a brood,
Or robs a deer of its life.
He aims at a speck in the azure;
Winged love, that has ﬂown at a call;
It reels down to die, and he lets it lie;
His pleasuIe was seeing it fall.

The same force formed the sparrow
That fashioned man, the king;
The God of the Whole gave a spark of soul
To each furred and feathered thing.
And I am my brother’s keeper,
And I will ﬁght his ﬁght,
And speak the word for beast and bird,
Till the world shall set things right.
—-By Ella Wheeler Wilcox,
Poet Laureate of Humanity.

FOR AS ANOTHER GREAT POET
TELLS US:

He prayeth best, who loveth best
All things both great and small;
For the dear God who loveth us,
He made and loveth all.
-—-Cole1‘idge.

Note to Teacher: It is suggested that
from material 011 hand from other sources
the teacher present the contrast to the fore—
going remarks and verses by presenting in—
cidents and feeling of animals and birds

The great poet Longfellow, who wrote
so many beautiful poems, tells us about
Hiawatha, the Indian boy, and his animal
frtends. May we all be such friends to

happy in their native haunts, undisturbed,
and 111 some cases protected by man. These
may be the‘basis for interesting essay and

them as he was.

Then the little Hiawatha

Learned of every bird its language;
Learned their names and all their secrets,
How they built their nests in summer,
Where they hid themselves in winter,
Talked with them whene’ er he met them,
Called them “Hiawatha’s Chickens.”

Of all beasts he learned the language
Learned their names and all their secrets,
How the beavers built their lodges,
Where the squirrels hid their acorns,
How the reindeer ran so swiftly,

Why the rabbit was so timid,

Talked with them whene’ er he met them,
Called them “Hiawatha’s Brothers.”

MAY WE BE FOR THEM
The Voice of the Voiceless

I am the voice of the voiceless
Through me, the dumb shall speak;
Till the deaf w011ds ear be made to hear
The cry of the wordless weak.
For love is the t1ue 1eligion,
aIOVe is the law sublime;
,And 93.1" that is wrought, where love is not,
W1 ”(he at the touch of time.

poster contests and our League will be glad
to hear of any that are carried on.

A FEW ESSAY TOPICS ARE SUG-
GESTED BELOW:

. Work of the Animal Relief and Humane
Education League.
. How can I help a homeless cat or dog?
. Story of the current year’s poster.
. The stories of Abraham Lincoln’s kinvd—
ness to animals.
a. The pig rescued from the mud.
b. The motherless kittens cared for in
camp.
’ll1e fallen birdling restored to its nest.
(Cl. Lincoln’s dog, Honey
e. The last wild turkey Lincoln shot.
. Why I would not like to be a lion at the
zoo.
. \Nhy I would not like to be a tiger in
the circus.
. Why the birds are the [\armer’s best
friends. 1,9

Copylight, Ap1‘il,19".).--;, by Vi1gi11ia W. Sa1gent Piesidcnt, Animal Relief and Humane Education
League, 322 E Street N. E. Washington, D. C. Additional copies may be obtained f1om Miss Salgent, for
25 cents per dozen; $2.00 per hundred.

 




