A Letterfrom Professor LAWSON TAIT, F.R.C.S., '

RESPECTING

EXPERIMENTS 0E LIVING ANIMALS.

Reprz'm‘ea’fmm “ T/ze Times,” 0/ Novemﬁer 81/2, 1892.

SIR,+—In your columns of October 25 there appeared an able
article of four columns’ length setting forth a series of alleged illustrations
of beneﬁts arising from vivisectional research, and I have to acknow—
ledge the courtesy you have extended to me, in allowing me to make an
endeavour to show the fallacies of the illustrations and of the argument.
I desire also to recognize the perfect fairness with which you have per—
mitted discussion of this burning question in your widely—read paper.

First of all, I am under a disadvantage, in that I am replying to an
anonymous and singularly able writer, and, further, in that more than a
week has elapsed since the appearance of his article. But if I recite his
illustrations brieﬂy, I think I can, in much less than his four columns,
effectually dispose of them. They are as follows, the kinds of experiment
being very clearly grouped according to intention :—- .

I. “An orderly series, intended to ascertain the functions of
organs or assemblages of organs in the human or animal body,” and this
group is illustrated by “the experiments of Dr. William Harvey, by
which he discovered the circulation of the blood; ” by “Sir Charles
Bell, who, by researches which were entirely experimental, and which
were carried on during the years between 1807 and 1826, took the ﬁrst
great step towards educing order out of chaos 3 ” by Marshall Hall, “who
established on a ﬁrm basis, and solely by experiment, the so—called
reﬂex function of the spinal cord, and its independence, in certain con-
ditions, of the control ordinarily exercised over it by the brain 5 ” by
Ferrier’s experiments, from which the writer concludes that “a brain
tumour was ﬁrst removed within the last ﬁve or six years 3 ” by Dr. Hope,
who, between 1829 and 1839, “in the only possible way, showed by
experiments on living animals precisely how the sounds of the heart
were produced, and by what changes in the valves or cavity they might
be modiﬁed in ”this, or that manner.” These illustrations occupy two
and a-half of the four columns, and as they all belong to ancient history,
with the doubtful case of brain surgery, they may be at once dealt with
to save confusion. '

I have to express a regret that the clever writer did not extend such
inquiries as he has made into some new ﬁeld, where he might have found
examples that had not been sufﬁciently combated before. Further, I

 

 




     

  
     
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
       
   

(2)

  

am surprised that elementary logic did not show him that what has been
‘ done in the past is not necessarily an indication or a justiﬁcation for
what may be done now, nor for what shall be done in the future. If I
were to grant, for the sake of argument, all that he claims for Harvey,
Hunter, Bell, and Hope, does it follow that with our splendidly-reﬁned
methods of research, we are bound to follow blindly the rough methods
of the 17th century, the scars of which seem so objectionable to our
modern methods of thought? Elia tells us that the discovery of roaSt
pig was made by the burning down of a house, and that for generations
no roast pig was obtained save by the burning of a house. Suppose that
it was seriously suggested that this method of research for roast pig was
better than any-other, that there was no other, and that its results were
so necessary that it must be continued, would not public opinion step
in to the meeting of cooks and tell them that their method was objection-
able, but that if it were really necessary it must be fully justiﬁed? The
cooks would have to justify their proceedings, not by allusions to the
fact that roast pig had been discovered in this way, but by a proof that
it could have been discovered in no other way, and that the primitive
way still remained the best method of obtaining it. Then legislation
would come in to restrict the damage which, in public opinion, would
arise from the process, inspectors of the cooks would be appointed (and
these inspectors would not be cooks), and the whole thing would be
narrowly watched. For the defence of such an objectionable method of
research the recital of doubtful ancient history will not sufﬁce. j

But I will meet the advocate of Vivisection on his own ground, and j
therefore I take the historic evidence which concerns Harvey as the ﬁrst ‘
and most elaborately-argued example.

I submit that as the result of careful historical research many com- ,
petent authorities have denied that the merit of the discovery of the j
circulation of the blood is to be given to Harvey. French authors claim ,
it for Servetus, and with them I entirely agree. Italians claim it for one i
of their countrymen, and they make out a better case than has been j,
done for Harvey 3 but the whole discussion has become farcical because "
its foundation is evidently far more in national pride than on individual
merit. This discussion existed long before the Vivisection question came
to the front.

But even if, on patriotic grounds, we accept Harvey as the success— ‘
ful candidate, there still remains the question —-all important for the l
present purpose—Did he make any substantial contribution to his -
success by experiments on living animals? My answer is obtained from ‘
his own writing, and I say that he made no such substantial contribu—
tion 3 indeed, far from it, for he was often led astray by his Vivisection 5
and it seems to me, as a skilled anatomist, that the circulation of the
blood could not, even now, be either discovered or demonstrated by
any other method than the use of an injecting syringe and a dead body.

As a matter of history the only approach to satisfactory or scientiﬁc
experimentation to be found in Harvey’s work on the circulation is given
in a letter to Paul Slegal, in which he describes an experiment with a“
clyster bag on a dead body. If he had pursued this method of research

and left living animals alone, he would have anticipated many very

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I,
l

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

(3)

important discoveries which were necessary for the complete disclosure

of the scheme of the circulation, and which were actually not made till
the time of Malpighi.

But granting that Harvey did make discoveries, the relation of
vivisection to them is given entirely and dispassionately by Sir Henry
Acland, who, in answer to Lord Winmarleigh 'at the Royal Commission
(question 991), said, “It is not quite certain what argumentation led
Harvey to that (the discovery of the circulation of the blood), whether it
was the observation of the living structure or the contemplation of the
dead structure.” Harvey worked and wrote in the 17th century, a time
when the rights of human beings had but scant consideration, a time
when men’s thoughts were rough and rude on almost all questions, and
when science was in its infancy. We cannot blame Harvey for not
being in advance of his time, and for being incapableiof a reasoning
power which has been granted to some who follow him in the 19th
century. But we can blame those of our own time who remain wilfully
blind to the logical conclusions of the facts given by Harvey himself.
When I say, as my general argument, that Vivisectional experiments are
useless and misleading, I merely say what Harvey himself proves in
numerous instances. He did not see the logical conclusions of his facts
but he states the facts clearly enough. The following illustrations I take
from his works almost at random. (Willis’s Edition, Old Sydenham
Society).

P. 16. Speaking of Galen’s most meaningless and utterly useless
experiment of dividing the trachea of a living dog, forcibly distending
the lungs with a pair of bellows, and then tying the trachea securely, he
says :—“ Who, indeed, doubts that, did he inﬂate the lungs of a subject
in the dissecting-room, he would instantly see the air making its way by
this route were there actually any passage for it P ” In this case Harvey
was clearly of opinion that Vivisection was useless.

P. 50. “This truth, indeed, presents itself obviously before us
when we consider what happens in the dissection of living animals 5 the
great artery need not be divided, but a small branch only (as Galen
even proves in regard to man), to have the whole of .the blood pf the
body, as well that of the veins as of the arteries, drained away in the
course of no long time——some half—hour or less. Butchers are well
aware of the fact, and can bear witness to it ; for, cutting the throat of
an ox and so dividing the vessels of the neck, in less than a quarter of
an hour they have all the vessels bloodless. The same thing also ‘
occasionally occurs with great rapidity in performing amputatlons and
removmg tumours in human subjects.”

Here Vivisection experiment was, therefore, wholly unnecessary,
but Harvey did not see it. . ,

P. 1:26. “The internal jugular vein of a 11ve fallow deer hav1ng
been exposed (many of the nobility and his most serene Majesty the
King, my master, being present), was divided, but a few drops of blood
were observed to escape from the lower oriﬁce r1s1ng up from ‘under
the clavicle ,' whilst from the superior oriﬁce of the vein, and coming
down from the head, a round torrent of blood gushed forth. . You may
observe the same fact any day in practising phlebotomy ; 1f Wlth a ﬁnger

 

 




 

(4)

you compress the vein a little below the oriﬁce, the blood is immediately
arrested 3 but the pressure being removed forthwith the ﬂow returns as
before.”

The experiment alluded to here forms, so far as I can discover, the
basis of Hannay’s well-known picture, which affords the British public
the proof of Harvey’s claim as the discoverer of the circulation, very
much as British popular theology is drawn chieﬂy from Milton’s
“ Paradise Lost.” But Harvey admits in the last sentence that the
experiment was Wholly unnecessary.

Again, if we go into Harvey’s mistakes we ﬁnd further proof of the
misleading nature of Vivisectional research. Thus at p. 103 he says—
“I can therefore boldly afﬁrm that there is neither anastomosis of the
venae portae with the cava, of the arteries with the veins, &c.” (concern-
ing the liver) 3 and we ﬁnd his experiments giving conclusions wholly at
variance with the facts displayed by the injecting syringe.

I have, of course, no right to force my own conclusions upon other
people, but my research into the history of this question was under-
taken long before the Vivisection question attracted any attention, and
its results were to establish opinions concerning Harvey’s relationship
to the discovery of the blood such as 1 have indicated.

The story of Charles Bell’s researches into the nervous system would
occupy a whole issue of your great newspaper to do it justice. It is a
record of brilliant success and disastrous failure. I shall content myself
with quoting his own well-known Views on the subject of Vivisection and
its relation to his own results as the best answer to your contributor.

They will be found on page 217 of the second volume of his great work‘

on the nervous system, published in 18 39.
“ In concluding these papers I hope I may be permitted to offer a few

words in favour of anatomy as better adapted for discovery than

experiment.

_ “Anatomy is already looked upon with prejudice by the
thoughtless and ignorant, let not its professors unnecessarily incur the
censures of the humane. Experiments have never been the means of
discovery, and a survey of What has been attempted of late years in
physiology will prove that the opening of living animals has done more
to perpetuate error than to conﬁrm the just Views taken from the study
of anatomy and natural motions.

“In a foreign review of my former papers the results have been,

considered as a further proof in favour of experiments. They are, on
the contrary, deductions from anatomy, and I have had recourse to
experiments, not to form my own opinions, but to impress them upon

others. It must be my apology that my utmost efforts of persuasion.

were lost while I urged my statements on the ground of anatomy alone.
For my own part I cannot believe that Providence should intend that
the secrets of nature are to be discovered by means of cruelty, and I am
sure that those who are guilty of , protracted cruelties do not possess
minds capable of appreciating the laws of nature.”

As an aid to the digestion of the above, it may interest my oppo—
nent to take Professor F errier’s views on the subject, as stated in his
preface to his work on “Functions of the Brain ” :—

 




 

(5.)

“Experiments on the lower animals, even on apes, often lead to
conclusions seriously at variance with well-established facts of clinical
and pathological observation. . . . The decisive settlement of such
points must depend mainly on careful clinical and pathological re-

search. . . . Experiments have led to different views in different

hands.”

For any discovery made by Marshall Hall, either of reﬂex function
of the. spinal cord and its independence, in certain conditions, of the
control exercised over it by the brain, no experiments on animals were
in the least degree required. The experiment so often made by
accident, in which the human neck is' broken below the fourth cervical
vertebra, gives every particle of the information far more accurately, for
the animal experimented upon there is a reasoning and observing
creature, who can intelligibly give account of what he feels and what he
does not. Here the experiments on animals only obscured the results
of clinical observation on man and hindered progress.

Another illustration of the ﬁrst group which I did not speciﬁcally
indicate is given in the recent investigations on the thyroid body. En—
largement of this is a matter which has been intimately engaging my
attention for many years. It has been established beyond all doubt
that in a great group of cases locality is the chief factor. In another I
have myself accounted for the disease by the sexual diseases of women.
Ihave followed the records of the Vivisectional Experiments, and I
might be satisﬁed with what your contributor says of them—“So far the
gain is perhaps negative; but the causes of thyroidal failure have yet
to be ascertained, and there can be but little doubt but that positive
results will be secured by-and—bye.” I confess that I see no such hope.
The last discussions have indicated a mass of confusion, from which
I can extract no idea save that the experiments on animals are positively
ludicrous in the utter absence of purpose which they show. Some of
them can be explained only on the supposition that the thyroid body is
regarded by the experimenters as a powerful toxic agent. In 95 .per
cent. of the population its presence is never felt. However, thlS IS a
case far too immature for either side to reckon upon. So, indeed, are
all the “cultivation experiments ”—witness the deplorable results in
both Pasteur’s remedy for hydrophobia and Koch’s remedy for tubercle.

' I have been very familiar with rabies in the dog, and I have been to

Pasteur’s laboratory ; and if the disease which M. Pasteur gives to these

. dogs is the same thing, indeed if it is not entirely a different thing from

the rabies which communicates hydrophobia to the human being, then I
must declare my powers of clinical observation to be strangely defectlve
considering the position in that respect I have acquired in my professron.
So far these inoculation experiments have been dev‘01d of any results
save those so dangerous that on the ground of their risk alone I should
hamper them by every kind of restriction. That they may be produc-
tive of some good is possible, for they certainly have yielded some exact
information 3 but their very danger makes one feel alarmed when. they
are being conductedin theneighbourhood,andtheyare faced bythis 1n1t1al
Objection : Are they the only road open for Investlgation? I answer
unhesitatingly that the avenue of clinical research in zymotics has only

 

 




 

been casually traversed, and that no systematic effort to exhaust it has
yet been made. When that has been done there will be time enough to
begin artiﬁcial production, continuation, or imitation of these diseases,
if these objectionable steps should ever be required. As it is there is
not the faintest indication from any of these experiments of a cure for a
zymotic. Indeed, the more accurate the facts become as they are dis—
closed, the more apparent to outsiders (who here certainly see most of
the game) that the removal of zymotics will depend on general hygiene
and not on a system of individual inoculations.

In dealing with his second group, your contributor again reverts to
ancient history, and gives his version of the story of John Hunter’s
operation for the cureof aneurism.

This illustration of the value of Vivisection has been so completely
and so often destroyed, that it is absolutely unnecessary to allude to it
further than to explain that Hunter modiﬁed Anel’s operation, merely
because he found that the artery near to the seat of disease would not
hold the ligature, and the patients bled to death. As the arteries of
animals never suffer from the disease in question, experiments upon them
could not have helped Hunter in any way whatever. Sir James Paget,
who has lately appeared as an ardent advocate for Vivisection, and,
therefore, may be appealed to by me as a witness not biased to my View,
has recorded his opinion in the Hunterian oration given at the College
of Surgeons in 1877, that Hunter’s improvement in the treatment of
aneurism “was not the result of any laborious physiological induction ,
it was mainly derived from facts very cautiously observed in the wards
and dead—house.” In this opinion Sir James Paget is undoubtedly
correct. Hunter tried his best to induce aneurism on the lower animals
and failed.

This View has been entirely conﬁrmed by the late Sir William
Ferguson, the late Mr. Macilwain, Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s
Hospital, and many others, so that I am really amazed to see this
fallacious illustration revived, the more that there is not a scrap of
evidence that Hunter himself believed in, or made, any such claim. It
is impossible that so great a surgeon as he was could have devised so
satisfactory an operation, save on two grounds, one of clinical and
pathological observation to the effect that the further you get from the
seat of disease the healthier the artery is 3 and, secondly, that the
triangle‘where the artery is reached is the best site for the operation, for
purely anatomical reasons. He could not possibly have arrived at these
indispensable and fundamental conclusions from any kind of experiment
on any kind of animal.

The illustration brought in by the instance of Von Graefe’s treatment
of glaucoma by iridectomy is a new one, and I am not in any way
proﬁcient in diseases of the eye. But I was house surgeon to the eye
wards in the Royal Inﬁrmary of Edinburgh when Von Graefe’s discovery
was given to the world, and I read a paper on the subject to the
Students’ Medical Society. I have found the manuscript of that paper,
and there is no allusion in it to any experiments on animals. I have
inquired of one of the most eminent ophthalmic surgeons in the world,
especially an authority on glaucoma, and he asserts that he was a

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

(7)

pupil of Von Graefe’s at the time and never heard of his performing any
experiments on animals. The only authority on diseases of the eye just
by my hand is the standard work by Mr. Brudenell Carter, and at page 414
he gives the story brieﬂy and succinctly as follows, and with that I shall
leave this more than doubtful illustration :—

“Before 18 56 glaucoma was justly regarded as being beyond the
reach of any treatment then practised ; but the ophthalmoscope, by
showing the excavation of the optic disc, caused the increase of tension
to be more regarded than it had been prior to this discovery. Von Graefe,
who had observed that the excision of a large piece of iris, in making
an artiﬁcial pupil, was always followed by marked diminution of tension
determined to try how the same proceeding would affect glaucomatous
hardness, and his experimental operations soon convinced him how
brilliant was the success that he was destined to achieve. Surgery has
won few greater triumphs than the conclusion of the whole glancoma—
tous class among the maladies which admit of cure by means of
operation.” .

In the above extract it is clear that Mr. Brudenell Carter means by
the word “experiments ” the experimental operations on human patients,
based on the beautiful inductive reasoning which arose from the use of
the opthalmoscope. Glaucoma does not occur in any animal, and
therefore no experiments on themcould have been useful.

The use of experiments upon animals for the detection of poisons
has been successful, as in the cases of Palmer, Pritchard, &c. But such
experiments are only conﬁrmatory of suspicions aroused by information
obtained from other sources. They are clumsy and untrustworthy, and
in these days, when methods of chemical and physical analysis have
reached inﬁnite excellence, they ought to be entirely supplanted by
exact chemical research. Strychnine has yielded to this, and so will the
other alkaloids if medico—legal chemists are put on their mettle. They
are the ofﬁcial custodians of the safety ofthe public from poisons,and they
oughtnotto rest with their science under such a stigma as is involved in the
employment of such rough and uncertain methods. .At the worst such
experiments are but a bagatelle, both in number and in degree, to those
against which we mostly level our complaints. . .

Belonging to the same group are the further and best illustrations
afforded by your writer in the cases of nitrate of amyl and chloroform.
Of the former I can only say that having had occasion to watch its em-
ployment in a few cases some years ago, I was so alarmed by its Violence
and uncertainty that I would never again sanction its use, and my reti—
cence was strengthened, when I learned from Dr. Lauder Brunton
himself, that the substance could hardly be obtained chemically pure, and
that the commercial article produced far more powerful and dangerous
results than the pure drug did. Such drugs do not enter 1nto my
therapeutics. ,

The ﬁnal illustration is chloroform and the most recent experlmental
research into its properties at Hyderabad. The. formulated result, from
animals, is “that the primary source of dangeran the use of chlproform
is always failure of the respiration, and never fallure of the heart. This
may be true about dogs, but concerning human beings 1t 1s absolute

 




 

 

(8)

nonsense, and I venture to assert that there are few living men, if any:
who have had a longer continual and daily experience in the application
of chloroform to human beings, than I have had.

Concerning the results of brain surgery your contributor is entirely
wrong. The earliest and by far the best efforts in this direction were
made, and the most brilliant results were obtained, far better than those
of Mr. Victor Horsley, not ﬁve or six years ago, but ten and twelve years
‘ ago, by Dr. William Macewen, of Glasgow, the greatest living surgeon,
and he devised his successful operations entirely by the symptoms of the
patients. Localization of function by experiments on animals had no
place in his conclusions at all. (See Dr. Whitson’s letters to 2726 Times,
December, 1884.)

I have omitted detailed allusion to Dr. Hope’s experiments on the
cardiac valves, because I have already occupied to much of your space,
and this is an instance in which only ridicule can be used as a weapon.
The experimenters were clumsy and barbarous, and Williams exposed
their fallacies at the time. What there is of accuracy about them could
have been, and has since been, far better proved by the clinical and _
pathological observation of incompetent and damaged valves.

I am, &c.,

Birming/zam, [V027 1541892. LAWSON TAIT.

I

 

 

 

NOTE—An Annual Report of the Proceedings of the London Anti-Vivisection
Society, which contains a list of its numerous publications, may be had post free
on application to the Secretary, THE LONDON ANTI—VIVISECTION SOCIETY,
32, Sackville Street, W.

2000. 12/11/92. No. 151.

 




