{VOL 13, No. 4

fnitude of the
aerimcnt sug-
zing the pos-

:ponding.

u eally serious.
ieart rate and
’2 label “emo-
. if the inter~

h each other,

‘xists is in all
lso probable '
3 control by
arly true of
ate response
his does not
oned cardiac
those skeletal
, there is a
rial in: '3; ii an
_:mcly low.
the present
'ch influence
ticular case,
ie emotional
'ior to Sl'l()Cl<
S as a puni—
(l inhibition

i of skeletal
termination,
conditioned

"iginally are
rat they are
which con-
in a given
ing, the in-
‘mot decide
directly by

 

 

a},

_. is-

We, ...«...M«-v»».. n"-

.3

- rwN'ﬂ-"nwﬂ' w: wwm‘z‘ki '7'” " " "1 “M" '

1959] HEART RATE CHANGES IN AVOIDANCE LEARNING 241

This is not to suggest that all heart rate changes observed in this ex-
periment were simply artifacts of activity. While there was a close cor-
relation between heart rate and activity in acquisition, during the ex-
tinction phase of the experiment there were clear differences between
groups in avoidance responding but no such diiierences in the heart rate
response.

If we use heart rate as an index of the autonomic responses which
Mowrer discusses in his theory, then these results indicate that the main-
tenance of avoidance responding during extinction does not depend or.
the maintenance of conditioned emotional responses to the CS, as he has
postulated. However, it could be argued that our failure to ﬁnd positive
results during extinction could be attributed to the high variability of
heart rate behaviour found in this particular experiment, and ti at another
less “noisy” measure of autonomic behaviour or a different experimental
situation would have been more suitable. But even if such positive results
were found as was the case in the acquisition phase of this experiment,
and in the work of Bersh, Schoenfeld, and Notterman on human subjects
(2), the criticisms outlined in the earlier part of this discussion
relevant. Thus it see is clear that theories such as Mowrer’s, which simply
treat autonomic behaviour as an index of fear or anxiety without regard
to the central and peripheral interrelations between autonomic and
skeletal behaviour are too simple to explain our ﬁndings.

are

SUMMARY

Ten animals were first trained to avoid an intense shock, and then all SS were
run until the avoidance response extinguished. Heart rate responses were measured
on each trial. The heart rate response to the CS was typically an increase in heart
rate. There was a relationship between the intensity of the heart rate response and
the occurrence of the avoidance response during acquisition. Also, skeletal activity
and heart rate responding were correlated during acquisition. There was no

significant correlation between speed of extinction of the cardiac and avoidance
responses.

The implications of

these results for the measurement of conditioned emotional
responding were discussed.

REFERENCES
1. AX, A. The physiological differentiat
Psychosom. Med, 1953, 15, 433—442.

2. BERSH, P. i, NOT'rERMAN, J. M., & SCHOENFELD, W. N. Extinction of a

human cardiac response during avoidance conditioning. Amer. J. Psychol., 1956,
69, 244—251.

3. BLACK, A. H, 8: CARLSON, N. I. The conditioning
curare-like drugs. Amer. Psychol., 1957, 12, 429.

ion between fear and anger in humans.

of autonomic responses under

 

 

 




éﬁmﬁé
Kr,m.z,.§.§..‘.,. $3

 




'- " ;' ~t‘r;._ 4 r .. .- ‘ _ ‘
4‘9. ..--..-.;;'..;;.-..'.£ m.u§MW:va-Gd .au.‘.¢r~..m'£a.1waft‘ ”ungu- . . . 4

,1

.’§ .* r—,
5); *24-1... .- {a} 1‘../;.’_ $-

. ML Vii-x2 3/“. h. ﬁfe};

t
. .3
_ it
i if?
" fzf .

. -. ..-..‘i _
2...».1‘1' ;‘.4.\V. . .. -. A. 4

. 4‘ "'..‘=4 \.
”_J‘¢-'.£-_..u.¢5.»-

; s r ‘ .
.3 _s s .‘.‘a ‘L‘ {55.42"- «t

id Ll
"rut‘:

\ V‘ A
“unfw~

~ mains}; Lila;

‘—«“’.c

4‘“ . J 4."_ ’ -...
".S;‘&§cSMAA~..k .‘a‘..._. _

 

 

 

JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN VETERINARY MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
JOUBNAIMQEATHEAXKTWAM "$111.0“qu ”AOCIAXIONK

Vol.142, No. 9 P. 97a only

"'7: vvrv-vﬁ ‘7‘. T'- ...' WI \ ‘4vov\1rY|Wu ,v
. n ' '

.
7" ,-

jJﬁr/J/ 5/1)!" )Ki", ._',¢ .. ;

~a ‘\4
A'AA’A \Au,‘ LL>A_.

Core of Laboratory Animals

March 13, 1963
Dear Sir:.

I agree with my good friend and neighbor, Dr.

Gerry Schmullc (see Correspondence, March 1, 1963,

JOURNAL) that the American Veterinary Medical As-
sociation should feel free to express independent
thought on such matters as federal regulation of re-
search. I trust that. is exactly what it is doing.

It seemed unfortunate that Dr. Schnellc felt
obliged to resurrect the infamous "Franklin case."
llowever, it is an excellent example to demonstrate
Dr. l.. Meyer .loncs’ point “humane care . . . can-
not, he legislated . . . .”

I have read the transcript of this case carefully,
and according to the testimony of an agent of the
Massachusetts Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. who testified for the prosecution, the physi-
cian involved did not condone the condition under
which the dogs were kept. (nor has anyone else). lle
said he was sorry to learn his trust in the caretaker
had hem misplaced. He had been negligent in not
providing regular inspections. Nevertheless, under
existing laws the physician and the caretaker were
prosecuted and convicted. The investigator did not
have a National institutes of Health grant at the
time of his conviction. What good would the pro-
posed laws have been in this case?

To make federal laws on such problems is compar-
able to nllt‘ttudittu In rPdm‘r‘. death due to automobile
accidents by passing a federal speed law. applicable
on all highways built with federal funds and not on
others. and puttini.r the Army for l’.li.f.) in charge
of enforcement. Laws do not prevent speeding; more
laws will not help. For that reason, federal funds are
given to improve the roads and intelligent enforce-
ment of existing laws is encouraged by every com-
tnunity.

Dr. Schnelle suggested that the AVMA “join
forces with the proponents of the Griffiths or Moul-
der bills and help them write workable legislation."
The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of

(Continued on page 974)

 

Letters for the correspondence feature of
the JounNAL are welcomed. Preferencewill
be given those that clarify or amplify‘fma-
terial previously published in the JOURNAL,
offer useful information, and are brief and
to the point.

 

 

 

{may l, 1963
AVMA Enrroaw. STAFF

Dr. D. A. Price, Editor-in-Chief
Dr. Arthur Freeman, Assistant Editor
Dr. H. E. Kingman, Jr.,

Managing Editor

Mr. R. G. Rongren, Advertising
Manager

Mrs. Eva G. Bailey, Production Man-
agar and Assistant to the Editors

Em'roami; Assxs'raiv'rs

Tanisse Bushman Diane Noonan

Jacquelyn I-Iavey Gertrude Schwerin
Vinette Nickel Carol Widen

E DiTomAL Seem. TARIES

Ann Mahon, to Dr. Price
Janice Johnson, to Dr. Freeman

AV MA ()1414‘14e 14‘. RS

Dr. llan J. Anderson, Fort. Worth,
Texas, President -

Dr. Jack O. Knowles, Miami, Fla.,
PresidentnEtect

Dr. Don H. Spangler, Atwater, Minn,
Chairman of the Executive Board

Dr. Andy Crawford, Rolling Fork,
Miss, Vice-President

Dr. H. E. Kingman, Jr., Chicago,
Executive Secretary and Treasurer

' AVMA WasmNrrmN OFFICE

Brig. Gen. (ret) ]. A. McCallam, V.M.D.,
and Mr. Dan I... Butler, 1507 M Street.
N.W., Suite 207-209, Washington 5. DC.

SUBSCRlPTlONS

For one year, $20.00 in the United States
and possessions: $22.00 in foreign countries:
single copies. SLOO.

Published semimonlhly at 600 S. Michigan
Avo.. Chicano 5. ”L. by the American Veteri-
nary Medical Association. Second class post‘
ago paid at Chicago. ”L. and of additional
mailing offices. Contents copyright l963 by
the American Veterinary Medical Association.

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

Send new address (and moving date) 45
days before moving. include old address as it
appeared on previous issues (if possible send
label). Do not depend on the post office to
forward the JOURNAL.

for the toe

your proies
Eaton Labo

/

 

 

13.41454. ,.-n.l {-15%-

mrr wm 4

 




- .' "' v .. l . ., A,“ . . . .‘ ,-:_ ‘
mantra-w. an}, A.» La»: b..VLbl.-...u..-./.A-.v.«11.3.-..v... 0.4;..14 a... ...,

‘u

a
. *l
it
a

94'
, g
‘1‘
i

7.,“ a

i _ A .
I “1.4..“ WWAMQAT ﬁzt‘ugm‘a‘ig.-.‘ >'t—C .‘.I~

-b—.

malls, . ‘

“A {5.1.5. 3:. «3‘.

2' i s
a .42..“J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN VETERINARY MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
Vol. No. 142, No. 9: P. 9'74 only May 1, 1963

 

".P»-'er4n\rv~vrn- .. a H... .,,,_ r r -

.I'vw‘ v .V w.

r ."J 1 I; trf _
13.:4).‘ .."-”r'-‘§\¢‘Jt\.\.};L-g"v

_ -.
, . a up ‘
A.‘ ’ A L'A‘ 41' h‘.

. r.

l
m i‘A' AxxLi'V...‘

SOLD THROUGH YOUR DEALER
STAlNLESS STEEL TABLES

Featuriuu stronq, stainless, 24" x 60" top.
Lori's in 12 positions (5-85 dogs.) Automatic
leveling coiupensators. Chromed single pedes-
tal. Rounded comers. Chromed spring-steel
tie-rods & polished aluminum adjustable ties.

if-uv bargain; u..a:_.¢u..." .1. 4 a JMd-ﬁ' may...» .4”

ll .11» QWJLJWL. (w. c; a.
- 1

vs -l-a~..v~,~r\ ”39;. csw..«, -
u . .r. » . . .‘ r - .

DELUXE
MODEL
warn
CASTERS
$279.50

: .; .a’: i .1

DELUXE HYDRAULIC OPERATING TABLE "

Largest (24” x 60") top anywhere. Tilt-locks
12 positions (5-85 degs.) Always sanitary.
Reinforced stainless steel top. Rounded cor~
ners, precision hydraulic unit in stainless base
is guaranteed against leakage or mechanical
failure for life, Chromed tie-rods & clamps
on both sides, easily secure animal. Finger-
control rises, lowers, and locks in seconds.
Hardware triple-chromed brass.
OTHER MODELS
psesuscssv ALL-STEEL TABLEs
(2 MODELS) .................. 399.50
ALL~$TAiNLESS NON-HYDRAULIC
oesaarwc TABLE ......... ......3199.so
FLUOROSCOPIC TABLES FROM ..... $89.50

LITERATURE AT DEALERS OR FROM:

; ~1iiyw—‘w

w

 

 

 

 

4... . ' i' =
may ~’ l.:‘ ' ”
. giL-I‘Qe’csEArtSégls
v_ 'n ~‘ 0' - M '
.- ,~ ; .zAthLﬁs 9.557415%» ' ‘ "i -

5 l/f

i
' _V i. v

'x— If} V‘, q ‘-‘i.;‘-r.‘,3-¢<.- «1...? ,

urgve- -0— ﬁn‘.,f[;‘ "'.‘-

. Irv . .. ,7 ‘1‘“, :V 7-,— (E‘ “awn-vi r. ‘fl’v'tzohltl‘i‘T-‘leﬁ- ‘7":th .
‘ - .. ' 1 . ' ' .'-.¢ , l i‘ v ' r -.
< . , I . ’ ‘ ‘ ', .. .v' ‘ . s .

.~.4. ., . .H ,_.~.,
. i ., -... -i - .
.- ‘ '3 Juli; .h. 1L4¢ Jun "‘~ hr t'

i"

" ‘r‘ﬁ‘.»€.: <~"... .
<.—.."6‘0.s. "Lum-<....~-.- ‘

Corred/ronrlence—conlinuetl

(.ruelty to Animals, with whom Dr. Schncllc is asso-
ciated, has not endorsed either bill because it knows
lull well that animal welfare groups at present can-
not. “eel. together" to frame a workable billl

As a leading: member of the veterinary community
oi (irenter lloston. llr. Schnelle has had a standim:
" with the research (four
ninuity on these or any other problems whose solu-
tion he feels could be mutually beneﬁcial.

Finally, it has been demonstrated objectively over
the years that veterinarians are a priori the best
friends that animals have on this earth in spite of
the fact that they, like other men, are imperleet.
Veterinarians are indispensable to any program in-
volving the health and welfare of animals. Whether
laws are passed or not, veterinarians will continue
to work ceaselessly for ever~improving conditions for
them. 'l'hey certainly are not turning their backs on
the animals because they diller with the means for
attaining a goal.

Whether l)r. Selinelle or I or any other member
of the AVMA would have expressed the official posio
lion of the AVMA in the some words used by Dr. L.
Meyer Jones makes little difference. I am pleased
that the AVMA did oppose these bills as written. it
should continue to oppose bills of dubious value
which purport to provide better animal care but
which are a deﬁnite threat to good research in vet-
erinary science as well as all sciences—~liills which
would make it possible for a veterinarian to do one
thing at home because he is a licensed veterinarian
and not possible for him to do under a research
grant at a medical or veterinary school unless the
experiment were previously approved by a lawyer in
\Vashington who (under the terms of the legislation)
never could have been associated with a research
laboratory.

imitation to “rot torvelher
L )-~

We should support. legislation that directs agencies
and departments. making research contracts and
grants to aid in the better care and housing of lab-
oratory animals. Sueh legislation seems to be em-
bodied in the bills introduced by Randolph (8.
WM) and Fogarty (l‘l.R. 4840) and Roberts (l-l.R.
4843).

BERNARD F. TRUM, D.V.M. Director
Animal Research Center
Harvard Medical School

Boston, Mass.

 

 

Waving .7

ll 50. let us lmow your new address at least
ﬁve Weeks in advance.

And when you write, be sure to enclose an old
address label clipped from a recent JOURNAL
envelope. It will help us give you better service.
Send your change of address to the JOURNAL
of the American Veterinary Medical Associa-

 

 

tion, 600 S. Michigan Ave.. Chicago 5. ill.

 

 

 

 

 

I» 15W"? ﬁt=:""tl‘~$t“r' " ‘7“TI‘-.T~t-'\F"“.~T'F:'YW 'Irzfﬁ-‘Tv- - w"! "V: ‘
‘ . .. 'i \ ~ ' t' , . ‘ .. , l . ' i |

r
‘ l

£75, in?) ﬁl;";/'..i‘..;—'i:lv ‘.
rK'J" or .t'i-i’z'iltil tirié‘ili’iivi
i." _ )‘ ‘l‘llgi‘ "\
. r'itfyﬁ" '.‘
,J r “03;.“
_‘\"’

1'

a“ {r
I}. i fulﬁll.“
r ' t .t" ‘1‘ ‘3. a;
.t 1 » ‘ .
. :ﬂﬂ.';llx“~'
(‘ ,. : t. a ~xi.._
‘ J

-.» .hi: ,
. ‘ i.

a
t
u

f

.,.,v. -.a~.5v-y-_.«
. " .5

‘—~ ~ 'Pr‘,”_y
. ( . |
.v . a -, r.

: ~..!.,.v ”.~s‘,'_-_—,,,,‘_._—: -‘

' ‘v‘r

 




From NIH Grants and Awards.Books, as follows:

McMasters University ~ Hamilton (Ontario?) Canada

.1222
A. H. Black $11,385

$ 5,520
6,617
$12,167-

$12,132
$21,4A0 '

In 4 year period: $57,124

Grant No. M—27Al

Grant No. lM—EVAI Cl

Grant No. M-2741 02

Grant No. my 002741 03

Conditioning under Curare-like
Drugs

‘ Ditto

Aversive Motivation and
Learning

 




it) tttt‘St‘tt‘,>.’tiiit‘
”. t.\i
l‘\'\‘i Ul- t‘ttt't't‘itt
‘2‘s in ”adapta-
‘2 ~l-i‘ 4.3' -‘
. t t, it
tt‘ punishtm‘
" Nu. 2min
itt«i\' 0'. ;t\‘niti~
1. 42. 2M 33:.

nttitts intensity

'3

..
tit,

‘tntoreetnent oi
um] I" \‘1 1nd,

under ititeix,,.t
.tl " “'
‘ /\’/‘., THIN.

te rat. l'xyr/tm'.

l’rinci/i/es u/
t entury-(‘rot’ts‘

end curves and
unite/riled. l‘IAl7,

55 at. sermuiatv
en and halal-
'Ijt'n'nl. I’rw/tn/q
9
.\n automatn'
tinuous use. .l,
.105 ‘3tl7,
on as a function

1. tar/r. Psycho/q
‘tion of a lever

ts a t‘t‘tnetion oi
ohshed master's

.959)

 

JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE PHYSIOLOGY AND PSICHOLOGY 52'

.Ivun'nqi at ('nmparoh'w and "hli'i’J'Wi’M P'VM'J'W”
Vol, .32. NH. 8. i959

TRAUMATIC A\'()ll):\.\'(‘l‘1 LEARNING:
A NOTE ON IN'I‘ER'T‘Rl:\l.-l.\"l‘l')l<VAl. RESPONDING‘

A. ll. ltl..\('l\'

tilctllnslcr (,t’nirrrs fly

AND N. J. (‘.»\t{l.S()N

Il'rslrm RI'W‘H‘V‘ I unrest-(y

The present paper is eoneerned with the
rate and temporal distribution oi intertrial-
interval responding during avoidance. learning
with a danger signal. Sidman (1953, 1957) has
studied both rate and distribution of intertrial-
interval resptmses when these responses are
allowed to postpone the beginning of the next
danger signal. However, there are few data. on
the temporal distribution of intertrial re~
Spouses in situations where the beginning ot-
the next. trial is not contingent on intertrial-
interval responding.

M I-1‘t'ttor)
Suit/eels

The S's were eight. naive mongrel does Fire or these
dogs were trained using a procedure n ineh allowed them
to escape the shock during the earn. st.a;._es of avoidance
learning. Three were trained using a procedure which
did not permit escape. Since this factor did not have any
apparent effect on the temporal distribution of spon-
taneous responding, the two groutis are combined for
the present analysis.

A Mm ml us

The apparatus was a modiﬁed Miller-Mowrer
shut tle—box. The Ss could avoid shock by jumping from
one compartment of the shuttle~box to the other. All
responses were automatically recorded by photocells
placed in each shuttle~box compartment. The CS was a
tone; the US a 4.5-ma., 60-cycle a.c. electric shock.

Procedure

The dogs were trained tirst to avoid shock. The. (2%
ts interval was I“ see. On each trial. if the dog jumped
during the. ("h l’iw' interval, it avoided shock and ter

initiated the ('5. It the dog failed to respond during the.‘

('8' lTS interval, the shock went on ill see. alter (is
. ,. For live animals. both shock and (IS terminated
when the. dog jumped. For three, the shock remained on
im‘ 5 see. and then both shock and CS were terminated
by [5. No jumps were permitted during this S-sec.
period. V

 

u. r”- __......_.... N-» M...

"this research was supported by a grant to R. L.
Solomon from the Rockelcller Foundation and was
facilitated by the Laboratory of Social Relations, Har-
vard University.

The authors would like to thank R. L. Solomon and
L ,l. Kamin for their assistance and advice.

'l'heclogs "t‘t‘t‘in‘ti ltttrialsa day,each ttial separated
in a J—min. intertrial interval. Training continued until
the dogs made I” (‘Ulth‘t‘t‘lllin‘ avoidanees on one day.

Following the Completion of acquisition, each dog
reeeived ltltl ext inctiou trials, It) per day. The procedure
was the same as that employed during acquisition ex-
cept that the dogs were never shocked.

RESULTS
The average number of intertrial-interval
jumps made during daily sessions is shown

in l’igurt- l. Data. are shown for the tirst
acquisition da}, the day on which the. last

ERTRlAc

lN TERVAL JUMPS

Hocu
catrenton
ACGUlSlTlON EXTINCTION

FIG. I. The average number of interniaeinterval re-
sponscs during each daily session of IO trials during
avoidance. learning and extinction.

AVERAGE NO. OF lNT

shoek was reeeived, the at'qttisition—t'rittwain
day, and all the extinction days. There is at.
intrease in the rate of intertt‘ial responding,
then a gradual derrease. Using the iVlethod of
Allowant'es, Wt' i‘t‘t'tuﬂ’tiZt.‘ a (liflerenee between
the tirst aettuisition and last, extinction days
on the one hand, and the criterion and tirst
extinction. days on the other (.05 level).

In Figure 2 selected data on the distril‘nttion
of jumps during the intertrial interval are
presented. Each intert rial interval was divided
into four equal periods and the. percentage of
jumps during earh period on a given day
eomputed. ()n the first; acquisition day most

759

 

 

- ' 7‘" r-.~WK"."P ‘3“. 33'7“: ﬂ“g. . .
c ' UL '

.0 ~ . ..
, ﬁn“! Kr. r'd'r «_q “u L_ ’.. .
.. 1" 3,"?! .7154“ v. "a:“4,'ﬁt.x at}, _,_~t
.r x. ,:,'W ‘m 1,53,pr 1’ .

w. . v... 1. 'v‘V .. V

my. Vrv , in". ”.4“ v -. W’V' ,” J. . ,. t' ;. ‘5 ‘ ._ -. |_ _.

((-‘t:.’.v. _'t.:..; ' ~.o‘ ;,.I~ '
‘ " . 4,. ‘

v .'. .l.-..
"", r‘la'ﬂ‘s-

 

759-760




 

 

.-\. ll. III,.\(‘K AND 2\'. J- I‘IIIILSON

'59 lo TRIALS CRIIERION TRIALS

l 5:?"

£21
5
3

*V‘b‘f . .j,.'..-’
viz-f. ._.h —
I
I

7. RESPONSES
”:33

‘ .. wyﬁﬁ N

 

 

O
3
INTER " TRIAL INTERVAL

60' EXTINCTION TRIALS
III-50

I
.
q.’ I, _-,2,. eta-'3
t. 2 { . . . _
I... ....I. -Ja‘u' *_.' '1
I

7.3.?
E"!
24. “'2 ~“‘

7. RESPONSES

!
I
05
:I ‘ ‘I
l
1

ET:

.821,
3 4
INTER -T2RIAL INTERVAL

VIII. 2. The temporal distribution of intertrial re~

 

Sponses on selected daily sessions of It) trials each. The ”

percentage of responses during each quarter of the inter«
trial interval is shown.

of the jumps oIcurred immediatel I after the
end of the preceding trial. ()n the criterion
day the jumps were tairly Ivenly sptead
throughout the intertrial iIIter2 It (In the tilth
extinction day the animals n ere responding
more during the ﬁnal part of the intertrial
interval

in order to detI rmine \leI tlII I do se I h tunes
in the temporal distribution of intIItIial-
inter .'2Il responding were signiticant, the data
were. subjected to an analysis of variance. A
t'tHIlPitl‘iSOI’t was made of the number of re-
sponses during the ﬁrst. hall and second half
of each intertrial interval over the ﬁrst: 80
trials divided into blocks of 20. None of the
main. conditions yielded a signiﬁcant F, and of
the interactions, only the llIlt‘I'élt tion between
halves of the intertrial interval and blocks of
trials is signiﬁcant. (F = 4.46, p <f‘ .05). This
suggests that. the pattern. of intertrial-interval
responding does change as training progresses.2

DISCUSSION
In interpreting intertria-l inten Il It‘ sponding

when such responses do not atIeIt stimulus '

and reinforcement contingencies, the main

2This analysis shows no signiﬁcant dill'erence {or
blocks of trials. Since the animals tended to reach the
maximum rate of intertrial- interval responding on the
acquisition criterion day, and since this occurred any-
where between Days 3 and 7, differences in absolute
rate were washed out in this analysis of variance.

IoIIIIIn has been with the absolute Ih2IngIs III
ratI. Kamin (1954), for Ixample, lI2 Is trIatIIi
these response. as an indiIator of general
level of “emotional” upset. (‘haIIgI-s in ”W
intertrial response ate were explained as a
generalization to the whole I.\pIrimIntal
sit2IIItion followed by the dIVIlopnII III oi a
IlisIrimination between the danger-signal
period and the intertrial interval.

While the results on absolute rate. of re-
sponding in the present experiment tit such an
interpretation, the data on the temporal dis
tIibIItion ot‘r responsIs stt ggIst that this t'.\-
planation by itself Is not stIIIII ient, as I\itI\\'rt'l'
(1058) has previously suggested. The. control
over responding by some variable assoIiatIIl
with time must also be Ionsidered. l)uIiIIg the
early stages of avoidance learning, the t()ll(‘tlt-
Nation of responses at the beginning oi the
intertrial interval could be related to the lexel
of emotional upset, which seemed to be lllt'lI
immediately Iollowing shock and then gr raIltI-
ally decreased during the intertrial interval
T he change III pattern of responding sUIlI that
more responses occur niar the end of the
intertrial interval is probably associated with
the formation of a temporal Iliscrimination.
We might say that the dogs learned to beIoIIII
mote “upset I” as the time tor the next pres~
entation of the danger signal approthes

SUM M A R V

The absolute level and temporal distri-
bution of intertrial-interval responding
were In tasured in an avoidance-learning
situation. The absolute level of responsI
showed an increase reaching its maximum just
after the acquisition criterion was met and
then a decrease. Within eat It MN I t I ial interval,
responses were concentrated at the beginnin"
of the intertrial interval at tirst and, We r, at
the end of the intertrial interval.

R ICI" ICR I'th tics

KAMIN, l. J. Traumatic avoidance. leaIIIing: 'l‘lII II'I'e'IIs
of CS —US interval with a trace conditioning pII-I
cedure. J. com/I. plz_.ttrinl Fwd/01.. WM 47. (IS 72

M0WI.,RIR 0. H. & KIEIIN, I. l). Hon are inteItrial

“avoidance” responses reintorced? l’syc/ml. Ree,
l958, 65, 209-22].

SIDMAN, M. Some properties of the warning stimulus in
avoidance behavior. J. com/2. physio]. I’syc/mL.
1953, 48, 444—450.

SIDMAN, M. Conditioned rcinlorcing and aversive stimuli

in an avoidance situation. T ram. N 1 Anal. 28d,
1957, 19, 534—544.

(Received May 7, 1959)

 

. an.» WNW, New I ' .2

(”‘7”-

2 ,3 ’rr lilMlﬂ)"
N.’

H [II
SEC
LA“
STEI
lion
('I'o'r'
I

ADA.

I\lII:I
Fara.
Run

A

CAM

BLA

 




CANADIAN J OURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY Vol. 13-14: 229-242 1959-60

RATE CHANCES DURING AVOIDANCE LEARNING /
IN DOGS

A. H. BLACK1
M cMaster University

MUCH OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH on heart rate has been concerned

with “emotional” behaviour. Such research can be classiﬁed into two

categories. First is the differential analysis of patterns of skeletal and

. autonomic behaviour that are elicited by varying types of so—called

should ; “emotional” unconditioned stimuli. Ax (1), for example, has shown that

, stimulus situations which are “fear—provoking” produce a pattern of re-

sponse different from those which are “anger-provoking.” In the second

type of experiment, the development of learned or conditioned emotional

responding has been the main concern, and here, classical conditioning

methods have provided most of the data. For example, Gantt (5) has

carried out an extensive programme on the analysis of conditioned

. cardiac responses using both aversive and positive unconditioned stimuli.

$12,333:}; In the present experiment, heart rate responding was measured during

etc, they v, the acquisition and extinction of an instrumental avoidance response in

cticc {:8 dogs. While the avoidance training procedure differs considerably from

‘gé‘ggﬁgn t at used in classical conditioning, gross behavioural observations on

0 press)’ responses such as defecation, panting, barking, and tremblin have shown

' that regular changes in emotional behaviour eccur during ,‘Zrnce

learning in dogs (13). Furthermore, Bersh, Notterman, and sci..)~t,:n:e:;.-:;-

(2) have shown some correlation between avoidance and heist rate

behaviour in human subjects when the avoidance procedure was insti~

tuted following classical conditioning. it was hoped that the measurement

of heart rate during avoidance learning in this experiment would provide

10,5511: , a quantitative index of emotional responding and supply empirical data

tawh 5: ; for a comparison of the effects of classical conditioning and avoidance
E training procedures on heart rate.

The results of this experiment would seem to be relevant to theories of

avoidance learning such as that proposed by Mowrer (9) who assumed

1This study was supported by funds from the Rockefeller Foundation, and was
facilitated by the Laboratory of Social Relations, Harvard University. Part of the
study was done while the author was an SSRC Fellow.

The author is indebted to Dr. Richard L. Solomon for his continued assistance
and advice, and to Mr. Malcolm Westcott for aid in running the experiment.

229

hologist,
. 1e Ave.,

.0
5 _ Law“...- a

-M... I .2...

CANAD. J. PSYCHOL., 1959, 13(4)

 

 

 




230 A. H. BLACK [VOL 13, No. 4

that conditioned autonomic responses play an important role in avoidance
learning as mediators of motivation and reinforcement. However, there
is some difficulty in interpreting heart rate data theoretically because of
the apparent control of heart rate by variables such as skeletal activity
and respiration, in'addition to the direct inﬂuence of the conditioning pro-
cedures themselves. Smith (11) has argued that all so-called conditioned
heart rate responses are artifacts of concomitant activity. McLeary (7)
has provided some data in support of this argument. Peters and Cantt, on
the other hand, minimize this difﬁculty. “Therefore, whether the rate of
the heart beat is increased reflexly by muscular tension or whatever the
relation between H R and muscular tension might be, we think that muscular
tension has little to do with the great increases in H R that go with con
ditional reﬂexes since these reﬂexes are accompanied by a very small
degree of muscular tension” (10, p. 40). Since changes in skeletal be-
haviour regularly occur during the course of avoidance learning, the in~
terpretation of positive results to support a theory such as Mowrer’s is
necessarily ambiguous. Regular changes in heart rate which parallel
regular changes in avoidance learning may possibly be reﬂex changes in
heart rate produced by the occurrence of the avoidance response, rather
than conditioned emotional responses which mediate avoidance learning.
However, negative results where changes in heart rate do not correlate
with changes in avoidance behaviour, as did occur during certain phases
of this experiment, provide information which could have theoretical
relevance.

M ETHOD

Subjects

The 85 were 10 adult mongrel dogs. The animals were obtained from the Harvard
Medical School and had not been used in previous experimentation.

Apparatus

The apparatus (shown in Figure 1) has been described in detail in a previous paper
(4). The dog rested in the hammock during avoidance learning and extinction. lts
position was similar to that which it would assume when standing. In order to prevent
excessive struggling, the dogs were strapped into the hammock with cloth tapes, and
a wooden yoke with a semi—circular opening was secured over the neck.

The CS was a tone delivered from a Bud oscillator placed about a foot behind the
hammock in which the dog rested. The US was a 60 cycle A.C. 4.5 ma. electric
shock, delivered by plate electrodes attached to the dog’s hind legs. Amount of
current was controlled by a variable resistor in series with the animal.

The avoidance response was defined as pushing one of two metal plates which. were
attached to the apparatus“ on either side of the dog’s head. The plates were hinged at
the top and were free to swing out in an arc of 1.25 in. when pushed. Latency of the
avoidance response was measured by a standard electric timer.

Heart rate was obtained by a modiﬁed Grass EEG polygraph. All recording and

 

 

 

Anya}: ..:_,. I“

w i" l , V ".
)* «ﬂ,- r “'3 , ,:. i-;«1".-.- ﬂ: ,. . .. ., -'J 5'. - '- ' " "
' wiakicswimitwtrcar~?»--- * ~ ,

19591 HEART l’u.

control apparatus was it
experimenter observed ti
small fan was kept going
equipment.

Procedure

Acquisition. The dog
attached over its neck a
side. E then left the ex;
period followed by a se‘
in order to extinguish t;

tests. Then avoidance
pushing response withi
avoided shock on that
during the 5 sec. CS—L‘
panel-pushing response,
The inter-trial interv
were arbitrarily design
Extinction. After me-
group received their ii:
Since they could not
presented for a predee
were given 50 trials .
special treatment whilc

2The present paper ‘
the course of an expe
avoidance response (4
and the data on the ins

 




>1. 13, No. 4 195.9}

HEART RATE CHANGES IN AVOIDANCE LEARNING 231

1 avoidance . control apparatus was kept in a room adjoinin
,CVCY there experimenter observed the dog from this adjoi
1 7 ’ 1' small fan was kept going in the experimental
oecause of .
. . . equipment.
-tal act1v1ty
301}ng pl‘O— Procedure

onditioned Acquisition. The dog was ﬁrst strapped into the apparatus, and the wooden yol<e
:Leary (7) attached over its neck and adjusted so that its head could move freely from side. to
Side. E then left the experimental room. The dog was given a 5 mm. acclimatization
Gantt, on 3. period followed by a series of presentations of the CS alone. These trials were given
thC rate 0f in order to extinguish orienting responses elicited by the CS, and were called pre-
hatever the
at muscular
n con-
very small
;l<eletal be-
ing, the in-
riowrer’s is
ch parallel
changesin
nse, rather
‘e learning.
)t correlate
tain phases
theoretical

g the actual experimental chamber. The
ning room through a one-way mirror. A
room to mask the noise of the recording

 

 

FIGURE 1. Diagrammatic sketch of the condi-
tioning apparatus.

the Harvard : tests. Then avoidance training began. If the animal made the appropriate panel—
pushing response within 5 sec. of CS (new

-...i the CS was terminated and the dog
avoided shock on that trial. If the animal did not make the panel-pushing response

during the 5 sec. CS-US interval, the shock was turned on until the dog made the

evious paper F panel-pushing response, at which time both CS and shock were terminated.

xtinction. Its ‘ The inter-trial interval averaged 135 min. Fifteen consecutive
:r to prevent ; were arbitrarily designated as the acquisition criterion.

'11 tapes, and ‘5 Extinction. After meeting the acquisition criterion, 5 animal

‘ ' group received their ﬁrst 50 extinction tri

avoidance responses

s in the experimental
als while immobilized by d—tubocurarine.2
response during this period, the CS was
remaining 5 dogs in the control group

ar extinction before curarization. They received no
d—tubocurarine.

t behind the g
ma. electric 1‘ presented for a predetermined time. The
Amount of were given 50 trials of regul

' special treatment while under

‘ which were .
.re 11“]ng at 2The present paper describes observations on heart
rtency of the the course of an experiment on the effects of curariz

avoidance response (4). A more detailed description
wording and ‘ and the data on the instrumental avoid

rate which were made during
ation on the extinction of an
of the curarization procedure
ance response are given in this previous paper.

 

 

 




232 A. H. BLACK [Vol. 13, No. 4

All 10 animals were given a 48-hour rest period following recovery from curariza-
tion. During the subsequent sessions, all dogs were extinguished in the normal state.
They were never shocked again. The animals were run on regular extinction proce-
dure, that is, the occurrence of the avoidance response within 5 sec. of CS onset
terminated the CS. If, however, the dog did not respond, the CS was terminated by
E after 5 sec. The inter—trial interval averaged 1 min.; intervals of 30, 60, and 90
see. were used. Each animal was run until it failed to respond on 10 consecutive
CS presentations. If this extinction criterion was not met in 400 trials, the experi-
ment was terminated. Each animal received 100 trials a day during regular extinction.

Measurements

Heart rate was recorded on each trial for a period beginning 15 see. before
CS onset and ending 30 see. after the occurrence of the avoidance response. If no
avoidance response occurred, heart rate was recorded until 30 see. after CS
termination. These measurements were taken on all acquisition trials and on all
regular extinction trials following recovery from curarization. No data are presented
for the trials on which experimental and control group animals received different
treatments (extinction before and during curarization) becauSc the effect of d-tubo—
curarine in raising heart rate made comparisons with normal heart rate difﬁcult.

The measure used in studying changes in the heart rate response to the CS was
the comparison between the average heart rate for 5 see. before CS onset (the
pre-CS heart rate), and the average heart rate for 5 see. after CS onset (the post-
CS heart rate). The difference between the pre- and post-CS heart rates was
called the heart rate response to the CS. The pre-CS heart rate was used as the
measure of base-line rate.

RESULTS
rteqmsiiiaa
Avoidance response. A brief description of the acquisition of the avoid-
ance response is given in Table I. The trial of ﬁrst avoidance and trial of
last shock are shown. The trial of last shock is assumed to be an index of
speed of acquisition.

TABLE l

SELECTED lNDICES OF ACQUISITION or THE AVOIDANCE
RESPONSE

 

 

Measure Median Range

 

Trial of lst avoidance 8. 4—52
7.

Trial of last shock 5 27—127

 

Base—Zine heart rate. The base—line heart rate showed a slight increase
during acquisition (see Figures 2 and 8). The mean rate during inter—trial
intervals was 113.7 beats per minute on the pre-test trials, 118.2 for acqui~
sition trials 6 through 10, and 120.5 during the ﬁrst ﬁve acquisition cri-
terion trials. The differences in heart rate between these periods is not
signiﬁcant at the 5 per cent level (Method of Allowances (8) ).

1959} ii EA RT

Heart rate resp.
met the acquisitit.
ccivcd a diffcren’
only at certain re
the dogs are all
the beginning of
criterion was met.

In Figure 2 da
(presentation of t

BEATS PER MiNUTE

{irons
pic-ti
avera
and t
trial.

ratel}
All 1

onset

thirty acquisition
for both avoidanc
are the average b
There is a gradua
Also the heart rate
trials.

In Figure 8 pre
sition criterion tri;
rate response to t
last shock, when ‘
pre-test trials. Th

 

 

 

 

 




13, No. 4

i curariza-
anal state.
ion proce—

CS onset
iinated by

1959] HEART RATE CHANGES IN AVOIDANCE LEARNING 233

H cart rate responses to the CS. Since the dogs were trained until they
met the acquisition criterion for the avoidance response, each animal re-
ceived a different number of trials. Therefore, one can combine data
only at certain reference points where it seems sensible to assume that

O, and 90 the dogs are all roughly at the same stage of learning. Such points are
onsecutive 1"- the beginning of acquisition and the trials on which the acquisition
he experio J criterion was met.

In Figure 2 data are shown for all dogs on the four pre-test trials
(presentation of the CS alone before acquisition began) and on the ﬁrst

extinction.

ec. before ;
.1130. If no 240%?
after (38 " y‘
rid on all
presented
'1 different
of d—tubo-
lillicult.
ie CS was
onset (the
.(the post-
rates was

scd as the

' a...

./'\ /\

ﬂ/ 1‘ l\l/l'\‘ /X'I\‘I!! x’
/\ “

G)
C)

. .
V
24’

i
,'\r‘ d

A. a
a 0-0 .
‘ I boogdxbr

,_.. J14!"

 

03
o

ere ,
stein «-
2

‘ POST STIMULUS LEVEL (WOIDANCES)
0 POST STIMULUS LEVEL (ESCAPES)
' PRE-STiMULUS LEVEL

BEATS PER MINUTE
{G
9
it

IQ:
is???“

 

 

ii ‘

PRETEST ACQUiSlTION TRIALS
FIGURE 2. Average heart rate for all Ss during the
, f pre-test trials and the first 80 acquisition trials. The
l he avord— average heart rate during the 5 sec. before CS onset
d trial Of and the 5 sec. after CS onset are presented for each
index of trial. The heart rate after CS onset is plotted sepa-
rately for avoidances and failures to avoid (escapes).

All heart rate responses shown occur before shock
onset.

thirty acquisition trials. The pre-CS heart rate and the post-CS heart rate
for both avoidance and non—avoidance trials are presented. Data shown
are the average heart rates for the 5 sec. periods in beats per minute.
There is a gradual increase in the post-CS rate as acquisition progresses.
Also the heart rate response is greater on avoidance than on non-avoidance
t increase trials. '
inter~trial In Figure 3 pre- and post-CS rates are presented for the ﬁfteen acqui-
for acqui- ‘ sition criterion trials and the ten trials immediately preceding. The heart
sition cri- rate response to the CS is much greater on trials following the trial of
)dS is not ' last shock, when the avoidance response has been learned, than on the
pre-test trials. The mean heart rate response on the ﬁrst ﬁve criterion

... q _’ ... ,mmﬂ m. .
,-.’m-.y-v~mww—nvv~ «um w "‘ ~

 

 




turban» “A: ..

234 A. H. BLACK [V0]. 13, No. 4

trials is 33.4 beats per minute, and on the pre-tests 3.6 beats per minute.
This diiterence is signiﬁcant at the 5 per cent level (Wilcoxon’s signed
rank test for pair replicates).

The measure of heart rate responding used above (average heart rate
during a 5 sec. period) by no means reflects moment—to—moment changes

1 POST STIMULUS LEVELKAVOIDANCES)
0 POST STIMULUS LEVEL (ESCAPES)
' PRE-STIMULUS LEVEL

TE

I
\ H
hi-ri’r’k wk/V

BEATS PER MINU

 

l

i ‘ a" .7, .-> ‘l .» c! ‘ 3- , ,.
a. W

PRE CRITERION {0

5
TRIALS CRITERION TRIALS

FIGURE 8. Average heart rate for all Ss during
the 15 acquisition criterion trials and the 10
trials immediately preceding the criterion trialst
See- the legend e‘i Figure 2 for further explana-

‘e‘ua at? 130%»; data,

in cardiac behaviour. In Figure 4 heart rates for a typical trial are pre-
sented. The instantaneous rate3 (in beats per minute) is plotted for 10 see.
before CS onset and 10 see. after CS onset. The solid horizontal bar in the
centre of the graph represents CS duration. When the CS is presented
there is a sharp acceleration in rate which reaches its maximum 2 to 8 see.
after the CS is terminated by the avoidance response and this is followed
by a sudden drop in rate. The beat—to—beat variability of the heart rate
is greater at this time than it was just prior to CS presentation.

An analysis of grouped data for the last ﬁve acquisition criterion trials
showed that the heart rate response did not reach its maximum until 1.5
see. after the avoidance response occurred, and did not begin to decline
until 2.8 see. after the occurrence of the avoidance response.

During acquisition, the most common behaviour was that pictured in
the example in Figure 4. In addition to this pa cam of responding, there

3Instanteous rate is found by multiplying the reciprocal of the time between each
QRS complex by 60. For example, if the time between two QRS complexes is .50 see,

the instantaneous rate would be 7136 X 60 z 120 beats per minute.

'* "'- " ‘7“ «era-1;: {iﬁi‘r’ztElrn-i-u viz-‘0“!
W.” 2'1 .“ "km s W21? ‘ 7,1. 5"}, *ﬂhgv ‘. . ‘ s
gutter, i ‘ ~ ., ' , w

l 959} H EA‘RT RATii'.

were trials in which no r:
and some trials on whit-'2
deceleration to the CS or

Heart rate response a:
between magnitude of h

30

m
‘9

.d
0')
\

BEATS PER MINUTE.

C7}

FIGUR"
.011 11 "
acquis
centre

(33 Or:

such as struggling and
made, notes of: behav
ranked on a fourpoint
activity to violent activ
the magnitude and th:
of a trial on which su
The magnitude and 1
greater than those on
activity was observed.
In describing Figur
on avoidance than on
broken down into thr
activity trials, and nr:
that high heart rate i
ponses per se. The d:
of these categories 0

1
i

i

vi“, ... ‘ .. m. mm I,‘,‘...«"‘ , ,,m.p.,.qmq,-g»-- .,. y-W-"ﬂ « n: , v13.» m... ,,.,. . ’vpa-Wr

 




‘ t
( \

‘Q.

[VOL 13, No. 4

)eats per minute.
Vilcoxon’s signed

verage heart rate
moment changes

‘al triai are pre-
lotted for 10 sec.
.:ontal bar in the
TS is presented,
imum 2 to 8 see.
this is followed
2” the heart rate
ion.
1 criterion trials
ximum until 1.5
)egin to decline
‘se.
hat pictured in
sponding, there

ime between each
nplcxcs is .50 sec.,

‘- .vu- .¢.—:v---~rw-.-::-mrr"=""r<”: “""’ " " ' ‘

1959] HEART RATE CHANGES IN AVOIDANCE LEARNING 235

were trials in which no change was apparent when the CS was presented,
and some trials on which a decrease was noted. In only one dog did this
deceleration to the CS occur frequently.

Heart rate response and general activity. There was a close correlation
between magnitude of heart rate response and amount of skeletal activity

BEATS PER MINUTE

FIGURE 4. Beat-to-beat changes in heart rate
on a single trial during the latter stages of
acquisition. The solid horizontal bar in the
centre of the ﬁgure represents Cs duration.
CS onset is represented by the vertical line.

such as struggling and barking. While no direct measures of activity were
made, notes of behaviour were taken on each trial and activity was
ranked on a four-point scale from no activity through slight and medium
activity to violent activity. The effect of violent struggling was to increase
the magnitude and the duration of the heart rate response. An example
of a trial on which such violent activity occurred is shown in Figure 5.
The magnitude and duration of the response on this trial are much
greater than those on the trial shown in Figure 4 where little extraneous
activity was observed.

In describing Figure 2, we noted that heart rate responses were higher
on avoioanee than on non-avoidance trials. If data from these trials are

ken down into three categories, avoidance trials, non—avoidance low
activity trials, and non~avoidance high activity trials, it becomes clear
that high heart rate is correlated with activity as well as avoidance res—
ponses per se. The data in Table II show heart rate responses for each
of these categories on the ﬁrst three trials following the ﬁrst avoidance.

 

 

 

 




A. H. BLACK [VOL 13, No. 4

i

5
0
"ET

“3&5:le £33-
...--—

Eu...

M

[6
0

5.15?
as»

in?

G)
O

l

BEATS PER MINUTE

l

 

i i r
5" i0" :5" 20"

TlME
FIGURE 5. Heart rate responses on a
single trial during the latter stages of
acquisition. See legend of Figure 4
for further explanation of these data.

There is no signiﬁcant difference in heart rate between the avoidance and
non-avoidance high activity trials, but we do recognize a difference be
tween non-avoidance low activity trials and trials in the other two eate-
gories at the 5 per cent level (Method of Allowances).

TABLE ll

HEART RATE RESPONSE DURING ACQUISITION (IN
BEATS PER MINUTE)

 

 

Non-avoidance trials

 

Avoidance trials High activity Low activity

36.2 37.4 15.1

There was considerable trial-to-trial variability in the magnitude of
the heart rate response during acquisition and this variability in heart rate
was associated with variability in general activity. During the early stages
of acquisition, activity alternated in a seemingly random pattern with
periods of inhibition of movement. Such inhibition was an active process
rather than a failure of movement since attempts to move the dog’s head
or legs during this period were met with. great resistance. This pattern of
behaviour is similar to that found by Gibson (6) in her observations on
the classical conditioning of skeletal responses in goats. During extinction

the amount of activity decreased rapidly to a low level.

1959} illfL-‘aii'i‘

Extinction

The aum’dn (3::
received fifty ext
regular extinction
ing these procedu;
on regular extinct
Table iii. Dogs in

lNDICfﬁS

 

 

Measure

 

No. of trials of rcgula.

Responses in extincti;

Avoidam‘es on ﬁrst 15
trials

Latency of response 0
extinction trials;

 

more rapidly and
dogs in the centre
the early extinctit
level on number {"
extinction trials.
Base-line heart
avoidance responc
regular extinction
rate. Table IVA s
on the fifteen cri
following the diff
base-line heart rat
expect a significan
there should be a
terion and extinct
group dogs. Howe
in Table TVB, this
During the ﬁrst
line heart rate. Th
tion session was 1"
This difference is
rank test for pain
covery at the be_

 

 

 

 




m mum, ‘ : 1W5.” -I " ‘MJEHW‘EQEN' ‘. zudk‘iihi “"K N
F V... 12'" n ~m . - » v

 

13, No. 4 1959] HEART RATE CHANGES IN AVOIDANCE LEARNING 237
; Extinction M"
T he avoidance response. Half of the animals (experimental group) /

received fifty extinction trials while curarized, and half received fif
;_ regular extinction trials and were then curarized (control group). F ollow-

in g these procedures, all the dogs were run on regular extinction. The data
on regular extinction following this differential treatment are shown in
Table III. Dogs in the experimental group reached the extinction criterion

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE m
i lNDICES or EXTINCTION or THE AvomANcn RESPONSE
l .m _ MW
Experimental group Control group
Measure Median Range Median Range
; No. of trials of regular extinction 41 7~79 450+ 08~450+
1 Responses in extinction 24 6—47 440 70—450
, Avoxdances on ﬁrst 15 extinction 7 4-15 15 12-15
“5- trials
T Latency of response on ﬁrst 15 5.0+ 0.4—5.0 1.1 0. 4—2.0
’7 extinction trials
juice and mere rapidly and made fewer avoidances during regular extinction than
cncc l.>c- ; dogs in the control 'group. This difference between groups is apparent on
we catc- the early extinction trials since they differ significantly at the 5 per cent

level on number of responses and latency of response on the first fifteen
extinction trials.

Base-Zine heart rate. Although there were clear-cut differences in
avoidance responding between experimental and control groups on the
regular extinction trials, no such differences were found for base—line heart
rate. Table IVA shows the mean base—line heart rate for the two groups
,2, on the fifteen criterion trials and on the ﬁrst fifteen extinction trials
, following the differential treatment. If this treatment had an effect on
base—line heart rate similar to that on the avoidance response we would
expect a significant interaction between group and block of trials. That is,

itudc of there should be a more pronounced difference in heart rate between cri-
":art rate tcrion and extinction trials among experimental group dogs than control
.y stages i group dogs. However, as can be seen from the analysis of variance shown
‘ :rn with in Table IVB, this interaction is not significant.

process A. During the ﬁrst extinction session there was a rapid drop in the base
g’s head ' line heart rate. The mean base—line rate at the beginning of the first extinc-
ittcrn of tion session was 124.1 beats per minute, and the rate at the end was 97.7.
tions on This difference is significant at the 5 per cent level (Wilcoxon’s signed
'tinction rank test for paired replicates). Base-line rates showed spontaneous re-

’r covery at the beginning of each extinction session. These changes are»

 

 

 




 

 

 

238 A. H. BLACK (Vol. 13, No. 4

TABLE IV

A. A COMPARISON OF BASE-LINE HEART RATE RESPONSE AT THE END OF ACQUISITION
AND BEGINNING OF REGULAR EXTINCTION

 

 

Base-line heart rate” at
Base-line heart rate* during beginning of regular
15 criterion trials extinction

 

Experimental group 126 . 8 120.1
Lnntrol group 116.1 117.4

 

*Rates are in beats per minute.

B. ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE OF BASE-LINE HEART RATE DATA

 

 

Source 5.5. (if MS.

 

Total 049 .20 .

Blocks of trials 2.21 ' 2.21
Groups 13 . 86 13 . 86
Within groups 840.14 105.02
Group X blocks of trials 5.05 5.05
Block of trialstog within group 87 . 94 10 . 99

 

illustrated in Figure 6 where pre- and post-CS heart rates during ex-
tinction for a single dog are shown.

Heart rate response to the CS. A similar analysis of variance was carried
out in order to determine whether differential treatment had any etTect
on the heart rate response to the CS. The data used in this analysis are

— N
— m
N A
o 0 o

BEATS PER MINUTE

65
O

 

 

 

 

 

yawI-ww‘w L‘F'W’

200 20l 210 252 27l
DAYS

16‘

:0 9| 10010: no:
DAY4

 

 

 

DAYS
EXTINCTEON TRIALS

FIGURE 6. Heart rate for a single S during extinction
trials. The solid dots represent the average rate during
the 5 see. before CS onset on each trial. The open
circles represent the average heart rate during the
ﬁrst 5 see. after CS onset on each trial.

 

 

 

1959} HEAR ‘ 1

shown in Table V
trials is not signifier
the same differenti'
avoidance response

A. A COMPARISON OF

 

 

 

Experimental group
Control group

 

*Rates are in beats I

B. [\NALYs

 

Source

 

 

Total

Blocks of trials

Groups

\Vithin groups

Group X Blocks of tri;

Block of trials X dog
group

 

In all cases, the l
response. For exam‘:
greater than the av
to reach an extincti
respond were notcc,
response was said tr
extinction criterion
median number of t
response was 03.5 (

Since the heart 2.
ponse, it is importar
heart rate response
the avoidance rcspt
extinction of the e: '
ployed in the hope i
verified in further st
speed of extinction I
not signiﬁcant.

 

 




 

Vol. 13, No. 4

OF ACQUISITIoN

 

 

heart ratc“ at
1}: Oi. regular
.mction

 

 

 

 

 

”Iain
A AA

‘11
N

":3 during ex-

‘e was carried
ad any cilcct
5 analysis are

1959] HEART RATE CHANGES IN AVOIDANCE LEARNING 239

shown in Table V. Again the interaction between group and block Of
trials is not signiﬁcant. Extinction trials under curare did not seem to have ./

the same differential effect on the heart rate response as they did on the
avoidance response.

TABLE V

A. A COMPARISON OF HEART RATE RESPONSE To THE CS AT THE END OF ACQUISITION
AND BEGINNING OF REGULAR EXTINCTION

 

 

 

Heart rate” response Heart rate” response at
during beginning of
15 criterion trials regular extinction
Experimental group 38.4 16.08
Control group 38.88 18.48

 

’“Ratcs are in beats per minute.

B. ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE OF HEART RATE RESPONSE DATA

 

 

 

Source 5.3. (if MS. F
Total 18786474 19
Blocks of trials 387.2880 1 387.2880 Pr(F==10.97)<.05
Groups 2.0162 1 2.03.02 F < 1
Within groups 1205 . 6070 8 150.7081;
Group >< Blocks of trials 1.3364 1 1.3364 F < 1
Block of trials X dog within
group 282.3398 8 35 .2925

 

In all cases, the heart rate response extinguished before the avoidance
response. F or example, by deﬁning a heart rate response arbitrarily as one
greater than the average pre—test response, the number of trials required
to reach an extinction criterion could be Obtained. When ﬁve failures to
respond were noted in any block of ten trials, extinction of the cardiac
response was said to have occurred. The median number Of trials to reach
extinction criterion for the cardiac response was ten (range 0—245); the
median number Of trials tO reach the extinction criterion for the avoidance
response was 63.5 (range 7—450).

Since the heart rate response extinguished before the avoidance res—
ponse, it is important to determine whether the speed of extinction of the
heart rate response could be used as a predictor of speed of extinction of
the avoidance response. Therefore, a number of different criteria for the
extinction of the cardiac CE, in addition to that used above, were em-
ployed in the hope that one might yield a signiﬁcant result which could be
veriﬁed in further studies. However, the highest correlation found between

speed of extinction Of the avoidance and cardiac CR3 was only + .41, and
not signiﬁcant.

 




A. H. BLACK [Vol. 13, No. 4

DISCUSSION

The close correlation between skeletal movement and magnitude of the
heart rate response during the acquisition phase of this experiment sug-
gests that Peters and Gantt (10) were incorrect in minimizing the pos-
sibilities for contamination of heart rate data by skeletal responding.

One could argue, however, that this whole problem is not really serious.
We could simply assume that skeletal behaviour along with heart rate and
many other responses form a patterned complex which we label “emo-.
tional” responding as Solomon and Wynne have done (18). If the inter-
related responses in this syndrome are highly correlated with each other,
this is only to be expected.

That such a pattern of autonomic and skeletal responses exists is in all
probability correct. However, in studying conditioning it is also probable
that different responses in this syndrome are sensitive to control by
different types of conditioning variables. This is particularly true of
skeletal behaviour and heart rate. For example, the heart rate response
showed great trial-to-trial variability during acquisition. This does not
seem to be the typical pattern for the development of conditioned cardiac
responses. When cardiac conditioning is carried out in dogs whose skeletal
musculature has been paralysed by eurare-like drugs (3), there is
gradual increase in magnitude of res . Efren rial. to trial until an
eSVi‘s‘iptgite is reached, and the trial-to—eia ariabilitv i e:~:tremely low.

iThls discrepaney indicates that the heart rate minimize-iit; iii the patient
experiment could be attributed to the effect of variables which influence
skeletal activity rather than heart rate directly. In this particular case,
it seems plausible to suggest that skeletal components of the emotional
response were punished when they occurred immediately prior to shock
onset, while heart rate responses were not affected by the US as a puni—
Sher. This would lead to periods of alternating activity and inhibition
which would in turn lead to variability in heart rate.

Similarly the avoidance response itself, which is one form of skeletal
activity, is controlled by reinforcement variables such as CS termination,
which we normally do not manipulate in order to control conditioned
emotional responses.

Thus, although both skeletal responding and heart rate originally are
part of the same set of emotional responses, it is possible that they are
inﬂuenced directly by dillerent types of variables. If variables which con
trol, skeletal behaviour, but not heart rate, are operating in a given
learning Situation, as is probably the ease in avoidance learning, the in-
terpretation of results remains ambiguous. Therefore, we cannot decide
whether changes in heart rate are controlled directly or indirectly by
stimulus events during learning.

1959] HEART It

This is not to suj
perfzncnt were Sim;
relation between h.
tinetion phase of :3
groups in avoidanet
response.

if we use heart
lVlowrer discusses ii
tenance of avoid-an
the maintenance of
postulated. l'lowevi’,
results during extii
heart rate behaviou
less “noisy” measur
situation would hav
were found as was
and in the work of
(2), the criticisms
relevant. Thus it ser ’
treat autonomic be
to the central ant
skeletal behavieur

Ten animals were I
run until the avoidant
on each trial. The he:
rate. There was a rel;
the occurrence of the
and heart rate respt
signiﬁcant correlation
responses.

The implications 0
responding were dlSCl

AX, A. The ph‘
Psychosom. Med.
BEBSH, P. ]., N
human cardiac rt
69, 244—251.

BLACK, A. ll, 6: t
curare-like drugs

. «wwr‘h -- -~-- m---.q-,gnma-m.f¢1p_~- m.» n “-0 .-,.. .. .. .

 




 

 

A. H. BLACK [Vol. 13, No. 4

BLACK, A. H. The extinction of avoidance responses under curare. 1. camp.
physiol. Psychol., 1958, 51, 519—524.

CANTT, W. H. Principles of nervous breakdown-schizokinesis and autokinesis.
Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci, 1953, 56, 143—163.

GIBSON, E. J. The role of shock in reinforcement. J. comp. physiol. Psychol,
1952, 45, 18—30.

MCLEAHY, R. A. Measurement of experimental anxiety in the rat: An attempt.
J. genet. Psychol., 1954, 84, 95—108.

MOSTELLER, F., 6: BUSH, R. R. Selected quantitative techniques. In C. LIND-
ZEY (Ed.), Handbook of social psychology, Cambridge: Addison-VVesley, 1954.
Mowmzn, O. H. On the dual nature of learning—a reinterpretation of “condi-
tioning” and “problem-solving", Harv. educ. Rem, Spring, 1947, 102—148.
PETEns, ]. 13., 6: GANTT, \V. 11. Effect Of graded degrees of muscular exertion on
human heart rate and the role of muscular exertion in cardiac conditional reﬂexes.
I. gen. Psychol., 1958, 49, 31—43.

SMITH, K. Conditioning as an artifact. Psychol. "861)., 1954, 61, 217—225.
SOLOMON, R. 1..., & VVYNNE, L. C. Traumatic avoidance learning: acquisition
in normal dogs. Psychol. Mongn, 1953, 67, 1—19.

SOLOMON, R. L., 8: WYNNE, L. C. Traumatic avoidance learning: the principle
of anxiety conservation and partial irreversibility. Psychol. Rea, 1954, 61,
353—385.

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE EFFECTS

‘\

DURING rm; Past
to the problem r;
vestigators have

resistance to strt
and immrxliatcly
Various types
cl :ctric shock, i...
(15); manipulati
starvation, Hunt
seemingly divers
men ts, nannely th
initiate the expo;
dealing with the
which involve sor
However, a ret
animals which \
thirteen days of L
signiﬁcantly grea
Of age whereas tl
ascorbic acid und
The present ex
infantile stirnulai
measured by dc
whether dillerenc
detected at the ti:
the variable of ea?
In addition to
gated the possibl
stimulation. In t1
1This investigatio:
the National Institu.
Public Health Servi"

CANAD. ]. PSYCIIOL.,

 

 




