E
i

E:

i

it

i-
3%

N?

f) 3

hr. Goleribge’s Evibence
f .. V before the .f **
1Ro‘gal Gommission,
A BETRAYAL

SB? meatrice in 1mm.

/ ‘ ‘ V
a ‘ b , . I
i / .
‘ ‘ . l ' . .
NWW \vk/h—Wy 1MW~' may Vu-‘mwbu‘w wwVWMWMN-Ty-T'
LMM—“WW WM*stM-WMWWMWMWW
} ‘ . . ,
i ’ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ i
I . ‘ ‘ i 3 . V 7.
A ' V ‘ l .
k i \ . , . . ~
‘ ‘ ( , i . , , , i
‘ ‘ ‘ i , ‘ I ‘ ' . i
I . g a , ‘ 1 x i . ‘ ‘ . Vi
. ‘ , ‘ A , ‘ . _ i I ' i : ‘1 | ’ i . “ ‘ 4 ‘ ,
I ‘ \ f - ’ V ' , ‘ i . ‘ _ v ‘ _ . ~ , < I J ' _ .
A i ‘ i 'x‘ , 1 ,. , . ‘ ' ' ‘ ‘ , < , , . .' A}. . . |' «t. ‘i ., i , .' ‘ '
. i, ._ j“. .‘ ‘ v, ,, ‘ . ' <‘.rt ‘ “ , 3 ‘. 7 (. '

 

Published by the British Union for Abolition of Vivisection‘
' (The British Anti=Vivisection Society),
32, Charing Cross, Landon, 5.W.

 

, V“ I I
\. )
. " \
r -
:3 l I

L, '

‘1 A?” z
( é
; _
c'~ l

; i
3‘ §
‘\

-Hwﬂwvm.-m W‘M _ ”MAM” __ _,.-,.. A” m». ~,r\..‘ ... ﬂ” ~_A

or;

Copies supplied gratis cm application to the Sewemm/
@L at above add7‘336

Lw—z'ﬂ“ M’w .MW WA~.I_~M~ r‘ 5...... n._’v-.,_ , ..MN'-;
WAM~W

 

 




   

   

 

 

 




 

 

 

MR. COLERIDGE’S EVlDENCE BEFORE

TH E ROYAL COMMISSION.

A
f

ANTI-VIVISECTIONISTS may congratulate themselves on
obtaining a somewhat clearer View of the policy of the
National “ Anti-Vivisection ” Society from the evidence given
by the Hon. Stephen Coleridge before the Royal Commission
on June IQ and 26 and July 3, 1907, than they could previously
have obtained frOm the conﬂicting statements frequently
made by its platform speakers.

If this society were known as the “Society for the Restriction
and Regulation of Vivisection,” Anti-vivisectionists might
fairly support or denounce it according to their opinion of its
use or its danger; but their criticism would be recognised as
a criticism from the autsz'de. Unfortunately, owing to the
retention of the word “Anti-vivisection "’ in its title, much
misconception exists with regard to its work; persons un-
doubtedly join it who would be startled and repelled were it
introduced to their notice under a more accurate title; it
shelters thousands of abolitionists who believe it to be an
abolitionist society ; and those who criticise it are sometimes
called upon to answer the charge of attacking their friends——
in other words, outside is confused with inside criticism.

WHOM Doss MR COLERIDGE REPRESENT?

AsI have suggested, it is extremely doubtful whether Mr.
Coleridge really represents his own supporters, the mere
payment of a subscription being certainly no guarantee that
the subscriber agrees with, or even knows, the policy pursued
by a society the title‘of which is taken as a guarantee of its

WWJWWWK’HMWWwJWW‘WWW mun-2mm » ~—‘ T“m=ﬁt‘"~":“-_
. ‘ . . A

 
 

l
l
l
i
I
l
l

I
l
l
i
l
3
l
l
i
I
l
l

 

 

 

 




 

(4)

work. Mr. Coleridge claims, however, “ to represent the cause
of Anti-vivisection in this country” (Ans. 10,260), and in
order to establish his claim he prefaces his evidence with a
statement of the membership and annual income of all the
other societies that responded to his request to supply him with
their reports. Explaining that he does this “not desiring to
set up an odious comparison,” his desire and his action come
promptly into conﬂict, and the Commissioners are instructed
as the ﬁrst piece of “representative” Anti~vivisection evidence
that the number of overt abolitionists in, this country is
comparatively small. Whether the giving of such informa—
tion be to the advantage of the cause, any earnest Anti-
vivisectionist will immediately recognise; I will pass on to
the question of whether it be accurate.

Three points for criticism occur to me in connection with
this preliminary part of Mr. Coleridge’s evidence. Firstly, the
statement that the National Anti-vivisection Society is “by
far the largest in the world (Ans. 10,255) is, I am credibly
informed, untrue. The Scandinavian Society holds that
position. Secondly, Mr. Coleridge gauges the importance and
superiority of his own society by the extent of its income;
and owing to the fact that the branches of the National
Society pay all the balance of their respective incomes, when
local expenses have been met, to headquarters, whereas the
branches of the British Union (and probably of some other
societies) retain their own subscriptions, it is utterly impossi-
ble to make any comparison with regard to income between
the National Society and any other. Thirdly, it should be
pointed out that the real comparison to be made is not one be—
tween the “National” and any other single society, but one be—
tween the “National” (the only society with arestrictive policy)
and all the other societies added together. Moreover, it is certain
that if the vote of each individual member of all the societies
including the National, could be obtained on the question of
the amount of support to be accorded to the principles laid

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

(5)

down before the Commissioners by Mr. Coleridge, the number
of avowed restrictionists would, without question, dwindle
down to that of the smallest society whose obscurity he
made it his business to demonstrate.

Before passing on to the more important part of the
evidence, I will quote Mr. Coleridge’s own explanation of his
action in giving these ﬁgures :—

Q. 10,806 (Sir Mackenzie Chalmers) : “I was not quite
sure of the object of your statement in comparing the income
of your society with that of others.”

A. “My object was purely egotistical, to persuade the
Commission, if I could, that mine was the most important
society in the Anti-vivisection world, and to claim greater
attention for my evidence than for that of small, obscure
societies which have hardly any address and no income.”

Q. 10,807. “ The point which occurred to me is this. What
we have to judge is not the income of the society, but the
validity of your arguments.”

A. “Yes; quite so. I hope mine have been more valid
than those proposed by other societies.”

WHAT IS “ ANTI-VIVISECTION ” P

If Mr. Coleridge be right in his assumption that it is on
account of his policy that “the vast majority of Anti-
Vivisectionists in England support us and not them ” (the
abolitionists), it would seem that the vast majority are
committed to an extraordinary View of what Anti-Vivisection
is. The evidence shall speak for itself :-—

Q. 10,885. “You are here to suggest an alteration in the
existing law which the Royal Society deprecate? ”

A. “In any alteration of the existing law I trust that nothing
will be done to hamper the legitimate employment of the method.”

Q. 11,242. “You see, my anxiety is this. You have said
yourself repeatedly, and this is what has made your evidence,

 




 

 

 

(6)

I think, on many points valuable, that you do not want to stop
research.”

A. “That is so. We are quite misunderstood if anybody
thinks that we want to stop science. We wish to promote
science.”

Q. 11,243. “You would wish, therefore, to make such
provisions as, while safeguarding the animal, will secure the
continuance of research ? ”

A. “Yes.”

Q. 10,709. “ Do you hold the opinion that. if it was proved
that certain operations lead to discoveries to alleviate human
suffering, you would not object to them ; or do you object to
them altogether because you believe them to be immoral? ”

A. “Not at all. My objection to vivisection begins and is
centred in the question of pain. If an animal be placed under
complete anaesthesia and destroyed before it recovers conscious-
ness, personally I have no objection to that vivisection at all ;
and anything that might be discovered thereby would be to
the beneﬁt of humanity and welcomed by myself.”

PAIN TO BE ALLOWED.

Although Mr. Coleridge very truly remarks (10,837), “ YOU
cannot have a measure of pain; there is no such thing as a
pain gauge after all,” the Bill which he desires to see law is
evidently based upon the idea that such a gauge exists.

Q. 10,839. “If any suffering is caused, you would stop even
what skilled people say is a most useful investigation?”

A. “I am not an unreasonable man. When I say suffering, '

I mean real severe suffering.”

Q. 10,840. “Would discomfort incidental to certain diseases
come within your deﬁnition? ”
A. If the discomfort amounts to what is really serious so

that the animal is utterly wretched, I say that the animal
ought to be killed.”

 

“#0

 

 




 

 

 

(7)

Q. 11,234. “You doncontemplate, and under yOur Bill you
allow, the perpetuation of experiments not calculated to give
pain at the initial stage?”

A. “Yes, those inoculations.”

Q. 11,235. “ But which may produce pain afterwards as the
result of the inoculation?”

A. “ Yes.”

Q. 10,765. “ May I revert once again to your draft Bill, and
may I ask you how you would deal with cases under that Bill,
should it become law, in which animals have been inoculated
with various morbid products with a View to ascertain the
pathological effect? ”

A. “Under my Bill, if an animal is inoculated with a
substance that creates a painful disease in it, it will be the
duty of the inspector to go and see that animal frequently,
and if it be in a severe condition of suffering it will be his
duty to order it to be killed painlessly.”

Q. 11,261. “While we are on the question of suffering, I
think you want some modiﬁcation of your Bill at the bottom
of page 2. In the last two lines you provide that the animal
may be allowed to recover, although inoculated, and you say,
‘ Directly the animal begins to feel pain it must be placed, and
thenceforth while it suffers, or is likely to suffer, must be kept
under the inﬂuence of a general anaesthetic . . . or
must be forthwith killed. ’ ”

A. “Yes.”

Q. 11,262. “But in your evidence I observe that you say, and
you have said just now, severe pain; you mean,I take it,
appreciable pain? ”

A. “I am not unreasonable. There is no pain gauge that
I know of.” -

Q. 11,263. “You have said repeatedly, and said reasonably
enough, in your evidence . . . ‘It will be the duty of the
inspector to go and see that animal frequently, and if it be in

O

 




 

 

 

( 8)
a severe condition of suffering it will be his duty to order it to

be killed painlessly. ’ ”
A. “ Yes.”

Q. 11,264. “You must, therefore, in your Bill modify that?”

A. “When the suffering is really triﬂing, of course I do not
want to interfere.” .

Q. 11,265. “ But you see we are, or may be, advising
legislation here, and I want to see whether you can assist us
in any way.” '

A. “May I say serious pain? ”

Q. 11,266. “You would be willing to insert ‘serious pain ’
in line 36 at the bottom of page 2 of your Bill? ”

A. “ Yes.”

The clause referred to in Mr. Coleridge’s Bill would there-
fore appear as follows I——-

Directly the animal begins to feel serious pain it must be placed,
and thenceforth while it suffers, or is likely to suffer, must be kept
under the inﬂuence of a general anaesthetic of the nature of a respirable
drug or gas, such as chloroform or ether, or alcohol, chloroform and
ether combined, or sufﬁcient power to prevent the animal feeling pain;
or, if the animal is not so placed and kept under the inﬂuence of such
anaesthetic as aforesaid, it must be forthwith killed.

WHO GAUGES THE PAIN?

In this Bill of Mr. Coleridge’s, then, pain is to be allowed
unless it can be classiﬁed as “severe” or “serious.” Of
course, our contention all along has been that what outside a
laboratory would be considered severe pain is looked upon
inside as a mere triﬂe. And we have proof of the most absolute
kind that this laboratory view of pain is shared by the
inspector. Why, otherwise, should he go out of his way to
assure the public in his report that “experiments involving
the removal of important organs, and even of parts of the
brain, are performed without causing pain to the animals.

The wounds being treated aseptically, the process of

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

(9)

healing takes place'Without pain. . . . It must not be
imagined that the (inoculated) animal is in pain,” &c., &c.
As we have repeatedly urged, there will be no protection for
the animals so long as inspectors are appointed from the
medico-scientiﬁc clique, who, guided by a strong feeling of
esprit de corps, would consider it a professional disloyalty to
denounce or adequately to expose the horrors of vivisection.
Yet it is these very men who, if Mr. Coleridge had his way,
would perform the impossible task of gauging the pain
endured by the vivisected animals, and it is on their evidence
that the public are conﬁdently asked to rely. .

Q. 10,758. “ You set a gooddeal of store on inspection?”

A. “Yes, I do, absolutely. Inspection is the whole thing in
my Bill.”

Q. 10,767. “ Do you think, under the provisions of your Bill,
and with the inspection it provides, vivisection could be
carried on without inﬂicting suffering upon animals P

A. “I should hope so, yes. That is my hope.”

Q. 10,949. “Are you aware that Dr. Goodbody saw these
(Dr. Crile’s) experiments?

A. “ No, my whole position is that the inspector should be
there. If the inspector had been there, I should have been
prepared to take the inspector’s word that these animals
suffered nothing.”

Q. 11,384. “I may remind you that in answer to aquestion
last time you said that you would place conﬁdence in the
opinion of the inspcctor.”

(A). “Yes. I am quite prepared to admit that at present I
have no reason to suppose that any torture has ever been
inﬂicted on an animal in the presence of an inspector. That
is why I am ready to trust the inspector to see that it does not
take place in the future.”

Q. 11,523. “In answer to question 10,839 yon said that by
pain you meant real severe suffering? ”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(10)

A. “Yes.”

Q. 11,524. “ Not small discomfort? ”

A. “No, serious pain was the term I used, which I have
agreed to add to the clause in my Bill.”’

Q. 11,525. “And you also said, in answer to Question
10,834, that you were willing to accept the inspector’s verdict

as to whether an animal is in pain or not? ”
A ££ Yes 5,

THE PRESENT INSPECTION.

Considering Mr. Coleridge’s absolute faith in the word of
the inspectors, it is passing strange that he should ﬁnd any-
thing to disagree with, or to doubt, in their present reports.
It will appear from the questions and answers which follow,
that, after all, the duties which he would assign to them are
(in the cases where we suspect the severest suffering—namely,
under Certiﬁcates A and B) only those which they already
perform. The question offhe frequency or irzfrequency of their
visits is not here concerned.

Q- I1,526. “Of course you know that one of the main
duties of the inspector when he comes to a laboratory is to
examine all the animals which have been subjected to an
operation under Certiﬁcate B? ”l

A. “I do not know what the instructions given to him are.”

Q- 11,527. “We have had it from the inspectors them-
selves that they invariably examine these animals ? ”

A. “If they say so, I have no reason to doubt it.”

And again :

Q- 11,267. “You have put it. . . . ‘Under my Billit
would be the duty of the inspector to have that animal (under

Certificate A) destroyed as soon as it manifested signs Of
severe suffering’? ”

A. “ Yes.”

Q. 11,268. “That is what several inspectors who have

 




 

(u)

come before us here have said in answer to myself and others
that as soon as they saw any signs of appreciable suffering
they would cause the animal to be destroyed.”

FUTURE “ HUMANE ” INSPECTORS.

Mr. Coleridge naturally ﬁnds it somewhat difﬁcult to main-
tain his position of absolute faith in the bond-ﬁdes of the
present inspectors, as evidenced in his replies to Questions
11,384 and 11,527, when his own statements are discredited by
. reference to the word of these inspectors. To Question
11,533 'he replies, “ You must remember, when you put up the
evidence of the inspectors against anything that I have said,
that I have already asserted my opinion, and I think I have
supported it by a large amount of evidence, that the inspectors
are not unbiassed.”

Q. 11,514. “Still, you haVe asserted deﬁnitely here that
you are willing to accept the inspector’s verdict? ”

A. “The verdict of future inspectors. I would certainly
not have accepted the opinion of Dr. Poore on the question of
the humanity of vivisectors.”

Q. 11,535. “I thought you said just now that the future in—
spectors were still to be appointed by the Home Secretary? ”
(See also 11,210, “The same Secretary of State whom time
,after time, man after man, you have distrusted so much in
the past? ”)

A. “Yes, but there is that consideration about their
humanity in my Bill.”

Q- 11,536. “No, it is the humanity of the operators that
you get a certiﬁcate for, not the humanity of the inspectors.”

A. “I think I have provided for the inspectors too. It is
in the proviso to Clause 7: ‘Provided always that in the
appointment or assignment of such inspectors by the Secre—
tary of State, special regard shall be paid to the applicant’s
rezputation for humanity.’ ”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(12)

Q. 11,537. “That is not a certiﬁcate, but ‘ special regard ’? ”

A. “Yes.”

The question that occurs to anyone who has followed the
Anti-Vivisection movement is, how can Mr. Coleridge possibly
imagine that a mere recommendation to the Home Secretary
that he should pay special regard to their humanity would
secure the appointment of inspectors really interested in the
welfare of the animals? Does he imagine that the Home
Secretary would acknowledge to a disregard of this considera-
tion in appointing the present inspectors? The fact is, when
once this question of a “reputation for humanity” is brought
forward, either for inspectors or for vivisectors, we ﬁnd our-
selves involved in a tangle of difﬁculties. For the real truth
is, that no man would deny a reputation for humanity to any
other man unless he had been convicted by law of cruelty, 01‘
were the subject of some open scandal. And all that Mr.
COIEYidge can say about the fallacious safeguard which he
proposes is that it would prevent Dr. Klein obtaining the pOSt
of inspector~a post which we have not the slightest reason
to suppose would ever have been offered to him. (10,725)

A CERTIFICATE OF HUMANITY FOR VIVISECTORS.

As Mr. Coleridge refuses to denounce vivisection itself, his
denunciations are largely directed against phantoms Of his
own creation. And thus his complaint that applicants for
certiﬁcates are not provided with a guarantee of their general
humanity, assumes an importance which must be denied for
practical reasons by those who know how impossible such a
guarantee would be, unless indeed the fact that the applicant
Was avivisector were accepted as a gauge of his humanity,
in which case all certiﬁcates would be refused !

Q- I0,726. “ How could you possibly arrive at getting a

humane character for anybody excepting from an interested
party? ”

 

W

 




 

 

(I3)

A. “I think it might be done.”

Q. 10,727. “It seems to me very difficult.”

A. “I think inquiries might be instituted about a man’s
personal character, his character for humanity.”

Q. 10,278. “You think by your Bill you could work it? ”

A. “ I do specify it. I say ‘a certiﬁcate recommending
that the application be granted on account of the applicant’s
reputation for humanity, which must be signed by two or
more of the following persons, that is to say, a Justice of the
Peace, a minister of any religious denomination in the United
Kingdom.’ That is as near as you can get.”

Q. 10,729. That, you think, would be sufﬁcient safeguard?”

A. “Yes.”

Q. 10,730. “And guide to humanity? ”

A. “As much as we can expect.”

Q. 10,731. And you think that would ease the public mind
as to the humanity of the person who got a license? ”

A. “Yes, always provided that the inspector was present at
every Vivisection. That is what I look upon as really Com-
forting to the public mind.”

Q- 10,732—3. “ The question of the inspector invariably? ”

A. “The presence of the inspector invariably at serious
cutting Operations.”

As there are many Justices of the Peace and clergymen who
Uphold Vivisection and blood-sports, and some even who
Share Father Rickaby’s opinion, “ Nor are we bound to any
anxious care to make pain as little as may be,” it ought not to
be difﬁcult even for Dr. Klein to get a “ certiﬁcate for
humanity” under Mr. Coleridge’s Bill; but even a humane
clergyman would hardly refuse such a certificate to a
parishioner of whose treatment of and attitude towards
animals he knew nothing whatever. Humanity is one of the
Virtues always assumed until disproved.

 

 




 

 

(14)

A CURIOUS INTERPRETATION.

Another straw ﬁgures ingeniously and laboriously raised
by Mr. Coleridge in order to be knocked down is his curious
interpretation of Certﬁcate B. I must confess that, until I
read his evidence, such an interpretation of the cruelties Con—
nected with this certiﬁcate had never once been presented to
my mind. All acknowledge that the granting of this certiﬁ-
cate (which allows the animal to recover after serious mutila-
tion) involves some Of the worst horrors of Vivisection. It is
under this certiﬁcate that Professor Rose Bradford was
enabled to keep the forty—nine fox-terriers in glass cases in
lingering agony until they died; and it is to their signs of
suffering—the emaciation, weakness, vomiting, ulceration, &c.
——that we point as evidence of the cruelty allowed by this
certiﬁcate. But Mr. Coleridge sees more than this. He does
not accept the common View that the initial operation, for
which anaesthetics were administered, was the whole of the
procedure while the animal lay strapped upon the table, but
he interprets it in this way :——

10,319. (Ans) “Certainly Certiﬁcate B dispenses with
anmsthetics immediately after the initial operation is over;
and under Certiﬁcate B the moment the initial operation is

over (the opening of the animal and ﬁxing the electrodes to i

the ends of the nerves and tubes down the veins) there is
nothing in the law and nothing in the certiﬁcate to prevent
the animal remaining disembowelled on the table for hours
while observations are made upon its blood pressure and
various things, while stimulations of electricity are passing
through it. Under the present law there is nothing to prevent
it, and I say that that is what horriﬁes the public.”

Now it is quite possible that in minutely criticising the
wording of the Act, Mr. Coleridge’s statement that “there is
nothing in the law ” to prevent this horrifying spectacle may
be correct; also it is quite possible that some Vivisectors

 

 

 




(IS)

might be found to act in this way. But to suggest that this
is the usual procedure with regard to Certiﬁcate B, and that
this it is which renders the certiﬁcate 50 peculiarly objectionable,
and which horri/ies the public, is certainly to encourage miscon-
ception, and the picture called up is one that we should only
expect to be presented by the most rabid and unscrupulous of
street orators more intent on sensational agitation than on
preserving an attitude of fairness and accuracy. Yet so
ﬁrmly does Mr. Coleridge profess to believe in this fancy
picture of vivisection (which, with the lingering sufferings
following operations under Certiﬁcate B, does not need any
such exaggeration of his horrors) that he is actually willing,
provided his alleged difﬁculty about what constitutes the
“initial Operation ” were removed, to retain in his Bill Certiﬁ-
cate B, as he has already agreed to retain Certiﬁcate A!
[Compare 10,706. “Certiﬁcate A (dispensing with anms-
thetics) remains.”]

Q. 11,540. “ May I ask you, will you describe Certiﬁcate
B in such terms as to avoid that initial operative difﬁculty of
yours? ”

A. “It is not in my province to be a draftsman. I have
n0t done that, but I think it might be drafted in such a way
as to preclude that possibility. I think it might be done with
a little care.”

Q. II,452. (Sir John McFadyean) : “Mr. Coleridge has
already said that he would put the animals (under Certiﬁcate
B) under the same conditions as they are under Certiﬁcate A,
because then he would be assured that they were anaesthetised
throughout the whole of the operative procedure.”

This astounding division of the one “initial operation ”
into two parts, the ﬁrst of which is presented as innocent and
the second as diabolically cruel, would seem to have been Mr.
Coleridge’s only way of escape from the difﬁculty involved in
his having allowed “ after suffering ” in connection with

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(16)

Certiﬁcate A—a concession which rendered inconsistent all
opposition to it in connection with Certiﬁcate B. He there-
fore leaves “after suffering" alone, and conﬁnes himself to
opposing a condition of things at the initial operation which
has certainly (legally) never existed. Thus, at one sweep Mr.
Coleridge casts overboard the policy which he and his ofﬁcials
have been declaring all over the country for years past would
be their minimum of demand in regard to Certiﬁcate B——
namely, that of insisting upon the destruction of the animal
before it regained consciousness, and under stress of the
discomﬁture in which his inconsistency has landed him he
would allow the Bill which has been his boast for the last nine
years to assume an appearance, even before taking its chance
of the inevitable “ amendments,” differing but slightly in all
important points from the present Act.

OTHER DIFFICULTIES.

Mr. Coleridge’s other difﬁculties, which occupied the rest of
the time during three days of the Commission’s sitting, are
hardly worth discussing. They resolve themselves mainly
into complaints of the administration of the present Act.
But to us, who regard vivisection as immoral, it can be of very
little moment whether a certain experiment were performed by
one man or another, in the presence of certaim members of the
public or in private ; whether a licencee held a certiﬁcate which
had been signed by an inspector before he took ofﬁce or by
some dignitary in whom Mr. Coleridge might repose even less
conﬁdence, and so on. These are very trivial matters. We
have a certain amount of sympathy with the innuendo con-
tained in the following evidence, and less with Mr. Coleridge’s
subsequent attempt to withdraw it as a “ slip.”

Q. I0,952. " We may have inspection, but still we may 315k
a person of character, when he saw the experiment, what his
opinion of it was. You will not accept that? ”

 

 

 




 

 

 

(17)

A. “Certainly not, because I think that all these experi—
menters have the greatest contempt for the Act of Parliament.
They would deny a breach of this Act just as I should deny a
breach of the Motor—car Act. I drive a motor-car, and when
I go beyond the speed limit, and a policeman asxs me, I say,
“No, I am not going beyond the speed limit.”

Mr. Coleridge naturally does not appear to advantage
when he tries to wriggle out of the difﬁculty created by the
fact that he does not object to experiments conducted under
complete anaesthetia throughout, and yet wishes to prohibit,
under his Bill, this very class of experiments performed for
the instruction of students. Here he is obliged to shelter
himself (I) under the inspector for Ireiand, and (2) under
“ feeling among the public.”

11,382. A. “I shelter myself under the opinion of others.
The inspector from Ireland gave that as his mature opinion
after many years being inspector. I do not know whether he
used the word ‘ unedifying.’ ”

11,385. A. “ I may say that there is a very large feeling
among the public whom I represent that vivisection experi-
ments, it may be only sentiment, are something peculiarly
distasteful.” And he adds, rather inconsistently, “In my
opinion many of the experiments by Dr. Crile, even if they
were done under complete anaesthesia, are repulsive to every
decent person who reads them.

These experiments, however, as pointed out by Sir I.
McFadyean, are not such as would be performed in demon-
strations before students, so Mr. Coleridge is left with his
difﬁculty unsolved—namely, why experiments of which he
himself says, “ I have no objection to that vivisection at all”
(10,709) Should be “ unedifying ” or “ demoralising ” to those
who witness them !

Finally we wonder why, since Mr. Coleridge absolutely
declines to consider experiments performed for trade purposes

 




l

; .

. .

l
tj‘
5.:
-t
F .

.,..
i .

l
:2
i3
it}
in
l;
l;

E

r

i

t»;

if;

7"".

I, .

i. .
l ‘ 1‘: .

 

(18)

(as in the production of anti-toxin) and says “they are not
experiments” (11,400)——which opiniOn elicited the retort,
“That is only begging the question ”—-~his lecturers so often
occupy their time in denouncing serumtherapy, with which
the National Society thus declines to deal.

A BETRAYAL OF PRINCIPLE.

Much more might be written upon Mr. Coleridge’s evidence,
but space forbids. I have brought forward the salient points
wherein he differs from us, in order to show clearly What has
been presented to the Royal Commission as “representative "
of the views of Anti-vivisectionists in this country. That the
evidence is really representative I do not for a moment believe.
Mr. Coleridge introduced himself as “the humble spokesman
of a constellation of great writers," among Whom I notice the
names of Cardinal Manning and Lord Brampton. I ﬁnd it
difﬁcult to believe that any of the great men named would
have agreed to the betrayal of principle involved in a supposed
Anti-vivisectionist, purporting to represent the Views of those
who oppose vivisection as a system, declaring that he “ had no
objection to that vivisection at all,” and “trusted nothing
would be done to hamper the legitimate employment of the
method,” and ﬁnding nothing more to say of abolition than
that he “is not against the total abolition of vivisection,”
(10,710), and would “willingly and delightedly accept it ”
(11,570), as if it were likely ever to be offered to a Society that
does not even ask for it! But that the two I have named, at
least, would have had no hand in such a betrayal, I will prove
by quoting their own words.

Cardinal Manning thus expressed himself at a meeting held
on June 25, 1881 : “ I take the ﬁrst opportunity that has been
offered to me to renew publicly my ﬁrm determination, so long
as life is granted me, to assist in putting an end to that which

I I l ' i 1 . i I 4.4 r r > '
J .- _ . v _, m». . '." , , r '.‘- ‘ "I ., ‘r . .. ‘ ,.,,' ,, H ‘ .
‘3“ 1‘1",rr‘l'vigursz, lifi’f'l'c‘Ii'x' » , r '--«-’,i'.—i\'- N9: " .- 1 hr: T.“ (FIJI $4.1}, ” ft" 1+- "‘"3451JLV. A396 “(Ti-1111?. .‘7 .59.} z. - , ..;7_ ;., “""‘ ‘-

 

 

 

 

 




 

7 119)

Ibelieve to be a detestable practice withoutscientiﬁc result

and 7'7'77777077511 2'77 itself. And, believing as I‘do, that it cannOt
be controlled ;,_that we had endeavoured to COn’trol it ‘
but that we have been entirely hoodwin‘ked. . .1 I believe the

time has come, and I only wish that we had the powerlegally,

to prohibit altogether the practice Of Vivisection.” . . .

“ What we cannot contiol we must prohibit.” '

Lord Brampton (then Sir H. Hawkins) wrote as. folloWs. to
Mr. John F. Norris, QC, on May 12, 1898 :’——“I had heard of the
altered Views of the old Anti—Vivisecti’on society {that is, the p .
“National ”1. I do not wonder "at the withdrawal cf many of '

its old members. I should certainly have withdrawn had I
been one of them. I abhor Vivisection, and should be Satisﬁed
with nothing sl1O1t of its total and absolute abolzl207.”z ‘

lVIr. Cole1 1dge, then, cannot be regarded as the‘ ‘spOkesnian ”
of the whole of the great constellation of Writers whom he
named, Are present-dayAnti-Vivisectionists content that he
should be regarded as their spokesman? 4

 

   

 

 

 




 

 

 

READ_THE

{Abolitionist

THE ORGAN OF THE

”.‘BRITISH UNION FOR.
  ABOLITION 0F VIVISECTION.

 

 

Price 2/6 per annum, post free;

Orders to be sent to the Secretary—w“
Miss B. E. KIDD,
32, Charing Crass, London, SW.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hwy);

F. J. BROOKE, Printer, 2 Westgate, Gloucester. 18009‘ .

 




