Miss Elsie Janis makes a plea for kindness to dogs

and for the Myers bill.

116 the Editor of the Herald:—

' During my happy months with the A. E. F. in France I had plenty
of chance to study the important role played by the dog in the world’s
“Big Show,” not only as an active soldier in hundreds of cases, but as
the friend and comforter of the ﬁghting man.‘ I could write a book on
the bravery, usefulness and undying fidelity of that friend of mankind.

I have seen dogs in the front line trenches, dogs that went over the I

_ top with the men, dogs that carried messages where a man would have
A" failed, and now I come home to be absolutely shocked by the fact that
Americans would even hesitate for a moment about passing a bill which
would assure at least the lives of American dogs.

I have always been proud of the fact that Americans were humane.
All over Europe you may see horses being worked too hard, but even
Germans are kind to their dogs. We spend thousands sending mission-
aries to barbarians in distant lands, trying to teach them the beauty
of human kindness, and then at home our men of science boast of the
fact that they can remove the spinal column of a dog and still keep
the dog alive for a few hours—the dog, which is practically a member
of the world’s big family. Surely no barbarian could ever think of
such arch cruelty; he might kill, but he is not educated enough to tor-
ture; such arts come with civilization.

We are living in a very hardened world. One of the few remain—
ing gentle things in it is love of animals. If science must be fed, let it
be fed with animals that were made to eat, and leave our dogs—our only
friends that nothing can change. Money, jealousy, greed, old age and a
hundred other things can wreck human friendships, but the old dog’s
tail that once wags for you wags on, come What may.

I hope that I have taken not too much space, and in closing let me

/,,.*’say:——-—Any one who had a boy in France, ask him about the dog that f f

" licked his hand when he felt blue and did not ask him for anything in
return but a kind word. Ask him if he does not think the Myers bill
should be passed. The doughboys would kill Germans like flies, but a
dog is a boy’s natural “pa .”

Oh, please, everybody, let’s pass the Myers bill.

Philipse Manor, N. Y., July 9, 1919.
New York Herald, July 11, 1919,

INTER-STATE CONFERENCE FOR THE INVESTIGATION
OF VIVISECTION
105 EAST 22nd STREET, NEW YORK CITY

7:1
A. ") TIJ: r.
. 'r. ‘ w'

ELSIE J ANIS.

'1' 2‘. my '7 ‘. - .
THE 1; \.T;:3 . - .-. =~
f‘I

-‘ ‘ ‘ ABEL; E‘ION
HUMANE RES-:3 SE... {Dir -’. 2‘]. J‘.I
17 72 JChurch Street.

WASHINGTON. D. C-

.x'
‘/

 




 




