“WOMEN, GLEBGYMEN,
AND DOCTORS.”

A REPLY.
BY THE REV. CANON BASIL WILBERFORGE.

 

 

(Reprinted, by permission, from the NEW REVIEW,
January, 1893.)

THE true signiﬁcance of the article under the above title,
by Mr. Ernest Hart, in the December number of this Review,
is the encouraging demonstration it affords of the alarm in
the camp of the vivisectors. The ﬁreworks of simulated
indignation at the comparatively few omissions in the
compilation of the Nine Circles are manifested and trans-
parent shams. The truths, not the errors, contained in the
Nine Circles constitutes its unpardonable offence, and account
for the unreasoning fury with which its compilers have been
attacked. The public mind is awakening, the conviction is
growing that cruelty—gross, hideous cruelty—has been, and
is daily, committed in the name of science in the physiological
laboratories in England, Germany, Italy, France, and America,
and that this cruelty, in the words of Sir Charles Bell, the
eminent physiologist, whose discoveries in the nervous
system have been described as the greatest since Harvey
discovered the circulation of the blood, “ either obscures the
subject it was meant to illustrate, or misleads men into
practical errors of the gravest character.” Mr. Hart’s
ponderous encyclical, rebuking peccant bishops, anathematisin g
vehement female zoophilists, and fulminating scorn upon
doctors guilty of the unpardonable sin of disagreeing with
him, abounds with suggestions of the false and suppressions
of the true- The erroneous title given to the Victoria Street
Society, the wrong date assigned to the inquiry undertaken
at the suggestion of the Queen, the confusion of witnesses
with commissioners in his allusion to that inquiry, the
suppression of the fact that the commissioners whose report

 




 

2

he belauds afﬁrmed that physiologists in high quarters had
been guilty of abuse of the practice of vivisection, the
indication of myself as “having assumed the leadership for
the nonce,” when I was absent from the Church Congress,
and by a mere accident was called upon at the last moment to
preside over the meeting in St. J ames’s Hall on October 27th,
the imputation to Miss Cobbe of words in quotation marks
not to be found in any of her published utterances, these
errors, immaterial in themselves, are without excuse in the
editor of a scientiﬁc newspaper heroically contending for
absolute'accuracy in controversial warfare. That attitude of
the public mind, however, which Mr. Hart, with characteristic
contemptuousness, describes as “the notorious carelessness
of the general reader,” necessitates a closer examination of
some misstatements so glaring that, to quote his own words,
“they can only be described in the Saxon synonym for a
falsehood.”

The title of his article, for example, suggests a falsiﬁcation
of fact unrevealed till the bitter end is reached. In the last
line Mr. Hart says, “It is indeed lamentable that even a few
women, clergymen, and doctors should be found to persist in
the ill—deserved support of it” (the Anti-vivisection movement).

A few women, clergymen, and doctors! I And it is the
author of this deliberate attempt to delude the public who
ﬁercely accuses others of “ dishonourable conduct.” Who
are these “women, clergymen, and doctors ‘2 ” The original
founders of the Victoria Street Society included Lord
Shaftesbury (president), Lord Coleridge, Sir Fitzroy Kelly,
Sir Frederick Elliot, Sir Evelyn Wood, General Colin
Mackenzie, Lord Bute, John Locke; names scarcely to be
enumerated under the title of women, clergymen and doctors.
Amongst other prominent Anti-vivisectionists who are neither
women, clergymen, , and doctors have been z—Authors:
Tennyson, Ruskin, Browning ; historians : Froude, Freeman,
Carlyle; politicians: John Morley, A. J. Mundella, James
Stansfeld, Duncan Maclaren, &c., &c.; lawyers: the Lord
Chief Justice, Sir H. Hawkins, Lord Justice Lopes; soldiers:
General Lord de Ros, General Colin Mackenzie, General Sir
Patrick McDougal ; philanthropists: Lord Shaftesbury,
Samuel Morley, Lord Mount-Temple, the Earl of Leven and
Melville; and new names are constantly being added.
Again, Mr. Hart, presumably with the authorised report of '
my speech in St. James’s Hall before him, afﬁrms that
“Canon Wilberforce has publicly claimed Ior women and
clergymen privileges which, if admitted, would sap the
foundation of truth and make public discussion . . . .

 




 

3

impossible.” The only appropriate comment upon this
statement is Mr. Hart’s favourite epithet, “ Deliberately
false.” The actual words used were, “ He (the Goliath of
the torture chamber) will always ﬁnd it a very safe operation
to call women and clergymen liars simply because they
will never retaliate upon him; they remember the words
of COWper :—

“ The modest, the sensible, the well-bred man
Will not insult me—and no other can.”

Obviously, the only privilege claimed was a privilege of
immunity for a controversialist whose truyculent violence had
disconcerted even the ardent supporters of his views. In
his revolting attack upon Miss Cobbe, Mr. Hart indulges in
language that insures him impunity, as it places him well
outside the bounds within which reply or defence are con-
sistent with self-respect. When unscrupulous anger would
stab a blameless character it borrows the mask of morality.
The accusation of untruthfulness against Miss Cobbe is a
transparent hypocrisy. Mrs. Rhodes, the responsible
compiler of the Nine Circles, has, in her letter to the
Spectator, wholly exonerated Miss Cobbe from intentional
suppression of the fact of the use of anaesthetics in certain
experiments, and Miss Cobbe has, by word of mouth and in
writing, amply expressed her mortiﬁcation at the inaccuracies;
has withdrawn the faulty edition from circulation ; and, at
her own expense, is producing the revised version of the
book. All who enjoy the privilege of Miss Cobbe’s friendship
and who admire her stainless life, unwearied devotion, and
luminous sincerity, are satisﬁed that COWper’s couplet wholly
shelters her from the present storm, and that Frances Power
Cobbe cannot be insulted by Ernest Abraham Hart. At the
same time, Mr. Hart’s unmanly taunt against one who has
passed her seventieth birthday, and whose health is broken,
that she is unwilling to face the ordeal of proceeding in a
court of law against her viliﬁers, recoils upon himself. If
Miss Cobbe has been guilty of calumny and libel, let those
whom she has libelled proceed against her, with deﬁnite
charges, and verify under cross-examination the accusations
they make in print. Thinking men and women from all
professions, not only “women, clergymen, and doctors,”
have signed the memorial to Miss Cobbe, in which the
following words occur :—

“It is impossible for us to say how highly we have esteemed
the indomitable courage and forcible eloquence with which

 




 

 

4

you have exposed the evils inseparable from experiments on
living animals.

“Further, we wish to record our ﬁrm conviction that you
have throughout recognised the wisdom and the duty of
founding your attack on vivisection upon the truth, and
nothing but the truth, as far as you have been able to arrive
at it.”

And the public at large will endorse the opinion expressed.
Having disposed of the “leading lady” by “methods
which are a mediwval revival,” Mr. Hart “turns from the
part which women have played in the extraordinary and
‘ shameless campaign to that which has been taken by a few
leading clergymen.” He names the “three clerical nota-
bilities who have committed themselves,” &c., &c.-—“ Bishop
Barry, Dr. Moorhouse (BishOp of Manchester), and Canon
Wilberforce.” Bishop Moorhouse, a debater and scientist of
no mean capacity, who has publicly stigmatised vivisectors
as men “ who use God’s dumb creatures as the subject of
tortures which can only be called diabolical, and who gain
their knowledge by the degradation of their moral character,”
escapes chastisement; Mr. Hart evidently misdoubts his
power to drag him to Canossa. Of Bishop Barry, who is
well out of reach in India, Mr. Hart says, “Let it be
remembered that Bishop Barry has had every opportunity of
knowing the truth ; at King’s College, and as Principal of the
College, he was the colleague and, in a sense, the responsible
head of a body of professors, among whom were some of the
most renowned and active experimental researchers of the
medical world.” Precisely; hence the cogency and authority
of Bishop Barry’s testimony as to the uselessness and
immorality of vivisection. The eminent surgeon, whose
antiseptic discoveries are in this context grandiloquently
belauded as having saved more lives than Napoleon
destroyed, demolishes with his own hand Mr. Hart’s whole
house of cards by his words, “ As regards the spray, I feel
ashamed that I should ever have recommended it for the
purpose of destroying the microbes of the air.” Yet the
use of the much-trumpeted carbolic spray was one of the
“truths ” that Bishop Barry ought to have learnt at King’s
College. “ Canon Wilberforce,” continues Mr. Hart,
“stands in a different and, in many respects, even a
sadder and more painful position: at the annual meeting
of the Society for the Suppression of Vivisection, Canon
Wilberforce characterised scientiﬁc investigators as inhuman
devils.” The abuse that follows would be positively
picturesque if it were less bombastic, and suggests the

 

 




 

 

5

question whether Mr. Hart realises the crushing rejoinder

to which he exposes himself. Mr. Hart, in quoting my
words, commits the fathomless sin of the Nine Circles,,he
suppresses the anaesthetic, the qualifying context. The
words I used were these :——— -

“ An immense amount of dust is thrown into the eyes of the
public with regard to that anaesthesia. In the ﬁrst place, if
you thoroughly chloroform a dog, the chances are that the
dog dies on the spot ; the action of chloroform on adog is very
different from the action of chloroform on a human being. In
the second place, the anaesthetic may possibly be administered
during the ﬁrst part of the operation; but when the animals are
kept for many, many hours in prolonged torture, the effect of the
anaesthesia passes away, and it would require the imagination
of a Dante to call up before you the awful horrors of those
silent hours in the vivisector’s laboratory; when that poor
dog is lying cruciﬁed to the torture trough, while the operator
has gone home to the comforts of his own house, forgetful of
that poor fellow creature that he has left in suffering. In
speaking during this summer, in another place, I ventured to
say that there were certain people who could so harden their
hearts by the performance of these operations that they
deserved no other name than the name of inhuman devils, if
they could do certain things. Well, I have been told that I
made that statement in haste, and, therefore, I take this
opportunity of repeating it in composure and in leisure. And
my deﬁnition of an inhuman devil would be just that. I
should require no other than an able, clever man, with
abundance of authority, with plenty of opportunity, with
nothing to check his way, and with the sentiment of love,
sympathy, pity, and all idea of the solidarity of the great
throbbing multitudes of beings here on earth, stamped out of
him, to come under the deﬁnition of an inhuman devil. And
I say, God help any animal that comes under the hand of a
man like that.”

I have nothing to withdraw, nothing to extenuate. In the
endeavour to awaken the public conscience to a great evil,
sheltered by sophisms innumerable and hypocrisy unbounded,
it is a positive duty to denounce it in the strongest language,
even should such terms be used as “ generation of vipers,”
or, “ ye are of your father, the devil.” The Rev. Samuel
Haughton, M.D., has hesitated not to afﬁrm that the practice
of Vivisection would “ let loose upon the world a set of young
devils.” Moreover, Mr. Hart and others have repeatedly
assured us that, in this country at least, no such persons
exist ; therefore, it is impossible, according to his own
"testimony, that my description can apply to any of the
distinguished men upon whose heads he has been so eager to

 




 

 

6

ﬁt the cap. Mr. Hart accuses me of knowingly suppressing
the fact that Professor Goltz’s experiments “ were wholly
conducted under anaesthesia.” If in making a quotation, in
perfect good faith, from the Nine Circles, I have wronged
Professor Goltz, I hereby publicly tender to him my
unqualiﬁed apology. But it is time that the public mind
was put thoroughly on its guard against the anmsthesia
delusion. Apart from the uncertain effect of chloroform.
and morphia on dogs, concerning which I am in possession
of evidence too voluminous for this article, some at least of
the experiments of Professor Goltz quoted in the Nine Circles
are wholly irreconcilable with the assertion that the victims
were throughout in “a state of complete anaesthesia," for
example :—

“Fifty-one dogs had portions of the brain hemispheres
washed out of the head, which had been pierced in several
places. This was repeated four times; the mutilated
creatures and their behaviour having been studiedfor months.
Most of the animals died at last of inﬂammation of the brain.
(P. 415.) ‘Interesting’ experiment on a delicately-formed
little bitch; left side of the brain extracted ; wire pincers on
the hind feet. Dolef’ul whining ; the little animal began again
to howl piteously; soon afterwards foamed at the mouth.
(P. 417.) The same dog last operated upon on October 15th;
since then blind; died on November 10th. ‘The dissected
brain resembles a lately-hoed potato-ﬁeld.’ (P. 418.) Little
bitch last operated upon on May 26th, and made nearly
blind; dies on July 7th of inﬂammation of the brain.
(P. 420.) A dog last operated upon on May 80th ; blind since
then ; dies on November 18th.

“ (P. 424.) These mutilated animals, no longer able to
scratch themselves, twist about in ‘ the most ludicrous
attitudes,’ without gaining their object. (P. 428.) A few of
the dogs had attacks of madness after the operation, and
these died in a few days. (P. 438.) Pincers put on the toes
and other parts of the blind and mutilated dogs. (Pp. 439, 440.)
‘I undertook these studies of the mutilation of the brain in
order to refute the false theories of the celebrated physiologist
Flourens, and I have attained that end.’—Pﬂiiger’s Archives,
Vol. XIV, 1877, pp. 412-43. 072 the Destruction of the Uerebrum,
by Professor Goltz, of the Physiological Laboratory at
Strasbu rg. ”

We are not forgetful of the reply of Dr. Klein when
before the Royal Commission that the scientiﬁc investigator
“ has no time, so to speak, for thinking what will the
animal feel or suffer.” (Q. 3540.) Was this under an
anaesthetic? Dr. Clarke, at the Folkestone Church




‘7

Congress, unanswerably exposed the fraud of - anaesthetics as
applied to vivisected animals. He says :—

“ A surgeon who was so proud of his achievement that he
wrote an account of it in the Lancet and afterwards urged it
in a letter to the Times as a strong argument in favour of a
‘free vivisecting table,’ operated on a dog, cutting out part of
its bowels, stitching the ends together, and then stitching up
the opening he had made in the abdominal wall. The
operation was done under anaesthetics, and therefore is called
painless. But mark the fraud of anmsthetics as applied to
vivisected animals. Operations on the abdominal cavity entail
at the best very much after-suffering, even when the patient
receives the most assiduous nursing. But what about the
nursing of the vivisected animal? It is left fastened to a.
board—generally the board on which it has been carved. The
second night after the operation in the case in question,
the animal lay there, crying in pain. Its cries attract another
dog in the laboratory, which was waiting the same fate. This
one broke loose from its tether, and went to help its wounded
companion. It ﬁrst gnawed through the cords that bound it ;.
.and then, thinking apparently that the dressings were the
cause of the pain, the dogs tore them off. Then they ran
round the laboratory together through the night, until the
wounded one dropped from exhaustion, and was found in a
dying condition from peritonitis at ten o’clock the next
morning, when the surgeon visited the laboratory. This
incident will help you to realise the sufferings of the animals
even in the cases in which anaesthetics have been used for
the ﬁrst part of the operation. Hence it is that I say that
the use of anaesthetics by vivisectors is to a very large extent
a fraud on the animals.”

Both in the British M'edicat Journal and in the article
under consideration, Mr. Hart seeks to annihilate me with
the ultimatum of the famous report of the “ Royal
Commission on the Practice of Subjecting Live Animals
to Experiment for Scientiﬁc Research.” I confess that I do
not bow down before that ultimatum as of plenary verbal
inspiration. To be unable to accept the conclusions of a
body of learned and honourable men is not necessarily to
proclaim oneself a fool. Does Mr. Hart, for example, accept
the dogmas, say, of the Council of Carthage, and if not, is
he therefore “ boldly standing up out of the depth of his
ignorance and the extremity of his presumption to contradict
the approved statements of the whole religious world, and
give the lie,” &c., &c. ‘2 The Commissioners reported that
“it would require a voluminous treatise to exhibit in a
consecutive statement the beneﬁts that medicine and surgery
had derived from these discoveries.” It would be easy to

 




 

8

"compile a voluminous treatise from the utterances of men,
themselves vivisectors, disproving each boasted discovery in
its turn. Physiological Fallacies (Williams and Norgate,
Henrietta Street, Covent Garden) convincingly demonstrates
the hideous cruelty and complete inutility of the experiments
that have caused the greatest sensation in the scientiﬁc
world. The “voluminous treatise” referred, to is an
illustration of my analogy of the cuttleﬁsh, and an example
of what Mr. Herbert Spencer characterises as “Medical
Popery." The plain question to which we await a reply
is this: What victory over diseases known to be fatal can
scientiﬁc experts point to as the result of vivisection'?
Meanwhile, evidence accumulates that untold sufferings have
been inﬂicted upon the human race from the erroneous
conclusions deduced from experiments on animals. The
p "‘ Rabies Paralysis,” from which some of Pasteur’s patients
have died, the pathos and horror of the rush to tuberculin
before the Koch bubble burst, are hideous examples. Yes,
scientists may have, as Mr. Hart says, “ created bacteriology,”
they may have learnt to infest the human body with living
organisms, but they cannot exterminate the bacteria they
produce. Like J annes and J ambres, who withstood Moses,
they turn their rods into serpents, and ﬂee discomﬁted before
the reptiles they have produced. Sir Andrew Clark, the
prince of physicians and one of the noblest of men, whose
measured language and reSpectful appreciation of the motives
of Anti-vivisectors, in his recent speech at Bristol, contrasts,
as light with darkness, with the language of Mr. Hart, has
said (British Medical Journal, February 3rd, 1883) : “ Undue
weight is attached to these results”'(the results of patho-
logical experiments), “ and by the assumption that in like
conditions the results would be the same in man as in the
lower animals ﬂagrant errors are committed ..... Had
these principles ” (the counter checks of clinical experience)
“ exerted their inﬂuence in recent debates concerning
questions of this kind we should not have had a seton in
the neck of a man taken as a parallel to a seton in the neck
of a guinea-pig . . . . and we should have been spared the
sight of science drunken with success and drivelling with
prophecies, soliciting the public on the common highway.”
It is to be presumed that Sir Andrew Clark is familiar with
this “minute, detailed and voluminous statement ”; is he
then also “boldly standing up out of the depth of
his ignorance and the extremity of his presumption to
contradict the approved statements of the whole scientiﬁc
world” ?

 




 

 

9

One ﬁnal example of the tendency of special pleading to
fritter away accuracy, even in the editor of a scientiﬁc paper,
must be exposed. Speaking at St. ‘James’s Hall, I said :—

“ If I am not very much mistaken, he” (Harvey) “ himself
tells us that he discovered it” (the circulation of the blood)
“ by the shape of the valves in the process of anatomy in the
dissecting-room, and that it was not until four years after his
death that it was demonstrated at all, and then it was
demonstrated not by vivisection, but by placing the foot of a
frog under the microscope, where the circulation of the blood
could be observed without anything like serious pain or
inconvenience to the animal.”

This opinion may be right or wrong. Hume (History of
England, ch. 62) says: “Harvey is entitled to the glory
of having made his discovery by reasoning alone. . . . .
He informed Boyle that he was led to it by reﬂecting on the
arrangement of the valves of the heart and veins as exhibited
by his master, Fabricius." But right or wrong, what
justiﬁcation can Mr. Hart plead for the following travestie of
my words ?——“ He” ( Canon Wilberforce) “intimates that
Harvey need not have discovered it” (the circulation of the
blood), “ for that someone else would have discovered it ﬁfty
years afterwards by observing the course of the blood through
the living lung or the frog’s foot with the aid of the micro-
scope.” This unscrupulous fabrication supplies his text for
ridiculing Professor Lawson Tait and myself as “ unable to
understand the elements of what we are talking about,” and
he sneers at Professor Lawson Tait as a “ provincial
gynaecologist.” Professor Lawson Tait, who, in the opinion
of the majority of thinking men of Mr. Hart’s profession, is
simply the ﬁrst gynaecologist in Great Britain, if not in
Europe, has nothing to fear from the detraction of Mr. Hart ;
and for myself, I am satisﬁed to “ march through Coventry ”
in his company. It is unnecessary to follow Mr. Hart into
the well-worn argument as to the old maid’s Tom-cat, and
the suffering caused by so-called sport. Two blacks never
yet made one white, and he may rest assured that the Anti-
vivisectionists are the very people who are ﬁghting cruelty in
every form; but there is a broad distinction between ancient
forms of cruelty, which are the evil heritage of centuries of
darkness, and which are dying down amongst us, and the
planting of a new seed of deliberate wrong in the very
stronghold of an honourable profession, whose standard is
truth and whose mison d’étre is mercy.

But the “ head and front of our offending ” is' the sugges-
tion that the practice of vivisection, apart from the ghastly

 




 

10

cruelty inﬂicted on the lower animals, leads by gradual steps
to eXperiments on human beings, and especially on hospital
patients. The assertion that by this suggestion we “ hideously
and falsely lay a charge against the whole profession” is an
exaggeration that carries its own refutation. The medical
profession produces men unequalled in nobility of character.
Few there must be who, in the changes and chances of this
mortal life, have not learnt to esteem their physicians with
an affection that is almost reverential. To labour, as has
been my lot, for twenty years in a populous centre, side by
side with medical men, is to learn from them lessons of
patience, charity, and courage. But, aliquarido dormitat,
there is no apostolic succession of infallibility in the healing
art. It is no “woman or clergyman,” it is Dr. Russell
Reynolds, a man at the head of his profession, who declares
that “meddling and muddling Of a disreputable sort” are
not unknown in therapeutics. It is Dr. Clifford Allbut
who warns the profession that women “ have their brave and
active spirits broken under a false belief in the presence of a
secret malady” in the hands of some specialists. Men, how-
ever honourable the profession to which they belong, are
individually assailable by temptation, and when the research
mania besieges the scientiﬁc heart, its tendency is to harden
the conscience. On the Continent, already, hospital patients
are not safe. Claude Bernard openly advocated experiments
on the brains of human beings “ because they have faculties
- which animals do not possess.” The notorious case of Mary
Rafferty, who died from experiments on the brain (Q. 3,390
Royal Commission, 1875), and the shameful cancer-grafting
case reported in the Times of June 27th, 1891, illustrates
the nature of the peril. Persons conversant with German
medical circles know, in spite of Mr. Hart’s denial, that
patients in hospitals are Spoken of in the slang of the pro-
fession as Versuchst/iiere, beasts for research. Ewperiments on
Hospital Patients by Mark Thornhill (Hatchards, Piccadilly),
records cases of inoculating children with tuberculosis,
leprosy, nasal discharge from horses, blood of scarlatina
patients, &c. Dr. de Watteville, in a letter to the Standard,
November 4th, 1883, described hospital patients as corpora
vilia. The British Medical Journal edited by Mr. Hart,
contained, July 1st, 1882, the following suggestive expression:
“We are informed that henceforth abundant clinical and
pathological material at the Brompton Hospital will be
utilised for the purposes of more systematic teaching,” and
for cases of “subjecting patients to operations in order to
register discoveries even when the inevitable precursor -of

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

11

death,” it is only necessary to read Dying Scientiﬁcally
(second edition, Sonnenschein, 1892), and to study the
correspondence in the Liverpool C’ourier of two years ago
concerning operations on women in a hospital in that
city.*

Let me, in conclusion, assure Mr. Hart that the Anti-
vivisection movement which he derides is no sentimental
Whine from a few insigniﬁcant “women, clergymen, and
doctors,” but a stern demand for justice to animals and
men, emanating from an aroused national conscience, and
growing in volume and intensity. It is promoted by men
and women, who have the patience to saw down through
sophistry to the lie that hides at the bottom, and who,
undeterred by Mr. Hart’s marked literary ability, unrivalled
position of advantage as editor of a scientiﬁc organ, and pre-
eminent facility of invective, will ﬁght on until the impious
inquisitiveness, the dastardly cruelty, and demoralising
consequences of vivisection are abolished by legal enactment.

 

* The following experiments on human beings have undoubtedly
been performed, viz. :—Experiment with curare on two children at
Manchester.—Evidence Royal Commission (London, 1876, p. 5,407).
Experiments on varnishing the skin—so frequently tried on
animals—tried on men—British Medical Journal, May 11th, 1878,
p. 671. Patients admitted to hospital in dying condition made the
subject of minute and tedious examinations, merely to furnish
reports to the medical journals—British Medical Journal, June 7th,
1879. Experiment of producing convulsions in a woman by
tickling and pricking her feet—British Medical Journal, March 25th,
1882. Patient admitted to a hospital suffering from a most painful
skin disease: “he was in a most miserable condition from pain
and irritation.” His cure was purposely delayed in order to
demonstrate to the students that nature alone, without treatment,
would not effect it.—-British Medical Journal, January 7 th, 1882, p. 5.
Experiment of producing acute gout by administration of salts of
lead—Ringer’s Handbook of Therapeutics, p. 256. Poor woman
admitted to a hospital in a dying condition made the subject of
constant observation and examination with tuning forks, 850.
These examinations were continued till her death, which occurred
twenty-four hours after her admission—British Medical Journal,
October 27th, 1883. Experiment of injecting milk into the veins
of a dying patient—British Medical Journal, June 6th, 1885.
Variety of experiments on hospital patients with drugs. The
medical man who performed these experiments states explicitly
that they were such, “and had no bearing on disease.”——British
Medical Journal, November 28th, 1885. Experiment of producing
a hideous disease by inoculation with the matter from sores of
persons suffering from it.—British Medical Journal, January 9th,
1886. Calabar bean having been found to produce epileptic ﬁts in
rabbits, its effects were tried with similar results on human beings.
——Wood’s Therapeutics, p. 319.

 




12

In the words of the Hon. Auberon Herbert, “ There is no
lawful weapon, no lawful means of attack that must be left
unused against vivisection and vivisectors ; there can be no
truce as long as we are asked to inﬂict suffering for the
good of humanity. To the scorn of all generous men and
women we consign this misused expression.”

BASIL WILBE RFORCE.

 

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF
ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION 0F VIVISECTION, 20,
VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. 5.93.

 




