’3
wx/ "xix

\\
\

l
w;

§

‘lt/r. Xé/

I
\

«yd/ﬂ O\\'
‘\ "(I . _

 

l

(
-__\:‘//- . V7,],-
\ ‘ 1, \{11’3

v
\

\~‘// \

~X’;__.

92' ”‘Nié/IV ‘\

é

“my,“
4/
\V I I

L
i::' $2:

 

9w «mi $2" $2 $2 m2 5 :éI: H» éwéwéwg

 

NO PITY.”

 

A SERMON

PREACIIED ON BEHALF OF THE BRISTOL 8; CLIFTON SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, IN THE

CHURCH OF S. MARY MAGDALENE, STOKE BISHOP,
BY THE LATE

DAVID WRIGHT, M.A.,

VICAR OF STOKE BISHOP,

ON SUNDAY, DECEMBER 181131881.

 

 

Rc-printml by the Bristol and West Of England

Anti—Vivisection SOCiety.

Off/1'6 :——~20, 7 731:1 N G [15, C L] F T 01V.

1 ,I’ .
O. U." ‘
ﬂé‘ﬁ. ;:-;>‘L’\;~:
I

 

 

 

,- "O , ,u‘ /,.,‘.\\ /~~ ‘ V \
C .7 ,2“. A I” :
/"."\\¢ .f/ 35‘. .//,7\\. .I.:.~\. M, . V,

'1’ f i
Price 3d. Per dozen 2/-. Per hundred 10/-.

 

 

/,’-‘\ . '

.//§\\.

f

x ‘ 72,7\<——_"_—'
9. 0’

__.._. .._ _
‘I\

‘.I. V

)

\ f

’I"':‘\\o

.\ /_$§:\ .- “~
K c o '1‘ i ‘. -'
I s

‘ '.T‘ _:.__._7.... .._.
. ., \ ‘ \ . ,
, ’1'
G

M2 I.\‘
a ‘0': \a

1’

;,~:\ /;.\‘~ -:'.;:- .' ,
1‘. I-xx- ,
\\..//‘\\‘. .‘er/(n‘. y: .‘x‘
‘) N
1 S
I

\\

7/;

i

)
\
A

)

 

.:'\ ,;:,:\\ ~I.\\
\ y‘lrgk .11 ““9. 9

%

ﬁg 7/
‘4

I“\_
?\

:r 7/

\\
u ' l’é\\a

é_,
}

.I/
1

\j\
v‘
. Q

\\ C,-

v

71‘
‘. 'I I “.
5 \\ .
3 C Is

\

1

.‘ /."-
\.. I.

I

‘.‘\

<7.\\ 2»; \
/é\\..’,(§‘

\
A. v/

1 I

" C\\
%
‘

I; -u
.1 I25 /”
In 2..

o. '\‘.’IIJ\“.//
‘) )
‘ \

 




 

INTRODUCTION;

THE title-page of this sermon states that it was preached on behalf of the. Bristol and Clifton
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. This must be limited to mean that it
contains an appeal on behalf of the Society.

The sermon is mainly concerned with a topic as to which the writer, though himself a
member of the Society, does not know the line which it takes. The vivisection-question has
not arisen at any of the Committee meetings which he has happened to attend. The SOCiety,
therefore, is in no way pledged to the views on the subject which the sermon expresses. At
the same time, the fact that a‘doubt could exist upon this point is to the author of this sermon
a thing surpassingly strange. That a form of cruelty by measure out of measure the most
merciless and deadly which exists upon the earth should stand upon debateable ground before
Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty, is, and must remain, a dark and hopeless puzzle.
Drivers and drovers who ill-treat horses and cattle are poor men for the most part, and of. no
social standing. The savants who sever the living dog 3 spinal cord, and hold the dog alive,
for weeks and months, by careful protection of the vital parts, that they may go on at intervals
piercing its brain, are on the other hand, in the forefront of society. Does this explain .the
embarrassing fact? Let such a degrading imputation be at once dismissed: There is a
chance, some say a certainty, that by means of this unfathomable suffering inﬂicted upon the
lower creatures, medicine shall be advanced, and the healing art shall make progress. Does
any member of a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals think that perchance this
added physiological insight may touch his case some (lay, and bring relief to hiin ; and that
it will be wise, therefore, to stand aloof from any adverse movement? Let this most base
suggestion be still more summarily and indignantly dismissed. But the puzzle remains.

It is in gloom and sorrowfulness of spirit that the author of this sermon takes tip once more
the melancholy subject. The consolations in the case are faint at present. There is satisfac~
tion, however, in observing that the controversy sharpens and the strife waxes hotter. The
vivisectors are aroused. The brothers of the craft are stimulating each other. There has
been a great clamour of voices this last summer. The workmen of like occupation have been
gathtring up and making themselves heard. They have discovered in part the severity of the
struggle with which they have to deal. And they have discovered themselves. It is made plain
now, that the heart of the vivisector is the same everywhere. The Englishman was .always
thought to be not so pitiless as his continental brother. Dr. Klein, indeed, denied thls years
ago before the Royal Commission. He said that in his belief English physiologists had, like
himself, “no regard at all to the sufferings of the animal.” The Anti-ViVisection SOCieties
knew this’froni the first. But it is now discovered to the world. The Vivisectors Of all
nationalities have been shaking hands with their brethren in London, and feasting together
in happy self—approval and complete uniformity of thought upon their cherished pursuit.
And all this, it must be inournfully added, with the applauding acquiescence of the leaders of
the medical profession in England. The accord is found to be thorough. Dr. Wilks and the
ltalian Mantegazza—the one an eminent English professor, the other infamous for crueltles
which have, perhaps, never been surpassed—«are seen to be standing side by .Slde in perfect
agreement and concord. The theory of the one is developed in the practice of the other.
That which is written in the sermon to prove this need not be repeated here.

. But the reason of the case is obvious. Knowledge is desired about the organisms of the
living animal. Com-passion for the animalman endowment of nature—stands in the way.0f
obtaining this knowledge. Strike it down, says the physiologist, and being down demolish
it, so that it shall rise up no more. This work of demolition may be more or less difﬁcult.
' But ho .v effectually it is done in the case of the matured physiologist we learn on the distin-

guished testimony of Claude Bernard. “ He does not hear the pain-Wrung cries of the
creatures. He is blind to the blood which ﬂows. He has nothing before his eyes but his
idea, and organisms which are hiding their secrets from him, which he means to “ dlSCOVCF-
hit the man thus self-deformed is on a different standing-ground from the rest of men WhO
still possess what he has lost. 0n matters into which compassion for suffering entershtherc
is no responsive movement, or possibility of mutual understanding betWeen them. For m the
breast o the one this organ lives and works. In the breast of the other it is dead. For the
sake of knowledge he has killed it. The question of the anguish which his search for know-
ledge may cause in the creature upon which he operates does not touch him. I he faculty to
care anything about it is withered and extinct.

Is it'still an open question whether knowledge is too dearly bought at the cost of all
entremities of suffering by the helpless creatures under the power of man? But—the man
hiinself—jself-defaced, self-disﬁgured, 'shorn by his own act of the loveliest attribute which he
has received from God—-is that an open question? In God’s most Holy Name 15 any
knowledge worth getting at that cost ? .

STOKE BISHOP, January, 1882.

 

 

 

 




 

 

\ a..-

SERMON.

2 SAMUEL xii. 6.

“ HE SHALL RETURN THE I..A.MB FOURFOLD, BECAUSE HE DID

'rHis THING, AND BECAUSE HE HAD NO PI'I‘Y P ”

THE anger of the king of Israel was none the less a righteous
anger because by it he condemned himself. The prophet Nathan
came to him and told him a grievous tale. The sadness of
the story is rather deepened than relieved by the beauty and
pathos of the terms in which it is told. But the sadness of the
story is not the principal feature of it. It is a story of selﬁshness
even more than of sorrow. The sorrow is an incident. The
selﬁshness is its essence. King David hit the point at once:
" Because he did this thing, and because he had 710 ﬁzzy.” The
man of this story was so self-bound that all thought or care for
others was gone out of his mind. It was not that he was a
tyrant, or a savage, or cruel, but that he was self—absorbed: and
this self-absorption had crushed out of his soul an emotion which
by nature belongs to all men. He had no pity.

The story is familiar probably to every child ; but we shall not,
I think, spend amiss the one or two moments which will sufﬁce
for reading it. “There were two men in one city ; the one rich
and the other poor: The rich man had exceeding. many ﬂocks
and herds. But the poor man had nothing, save one little ewe
lamb, which he had bought and nourished up: and it grew up
together with him, and with his children; It did eat of his own
meat, and drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was
unto him as a daughter. And there came a traveller unto the rich,
man, and he spared to take of his own flock and of his own herd,
to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him ; but took
the poor man’s lamb, and dressed it for the man that was come to
him.” We are relieved to think that .this was parable and not
history. Albeit that a deed is shadowed here darker in its evil,

 




 

4

deeper in it’s guilt, than the supposed act of the rich man of this

parable, it cannot but yet be comforting to know that the gloomy
roll of this sad world’s wretchedness and sin does not hold Within
itself the miserable tale of Nathan’s parable.

And here then let the purpose and direction of this sermon be
mentioned.

[In the sermon as preached the case of the particular Societyis here mentioned,
and some paragraphs follow of local concernment only—and it then
proceeds :] p

The thing perhaps which strikes our thoughts at once as we
pass into that realm of nature which opens before us now, is the
sz'leizre of it. It is a dumb world upon which we enter. We pass
into it and ask, and go on asking, but no one answers. Are there
wrongs here to be redressed? sufferings to be relieved? woes to
be abated? If so, we must search for them ourselves and find
them out———for there is no appeal to us, no remonstrance, no
complaint : The blind man cries from the highway side by Jericho.

The leper s/zom‘s from the borders of his appointed distance. The

poor man tel/s Nathan the story of his ewe lamb. And the words

of lamentation fall on hearing ears, and the succour comes, and

the healing, and the sympathy. The crowds of sick poor'in a

large town cannot fail to make their distresses known; and the

Inﬁrmary is built, and the subscriptions pour in, and the doctors

give their willing ministry. There are children born among the

poor: some that cannot hear, some that cannot speak. And the
parents tell it about, and talk much of these sorrowful things.

And the asylum is raised, and the needful appointments are found,

and those poor children are gathered into it, and all is done that

can be done to mitigate those sad calamities. There is not a form
or condition of human distress or suffering which, when it is
proclaimed and made known, does not call up some provision for
rehevmg it. But that is the point here. It has to be proclaimed.

_And the proclamation rises ‘out of the suffering itself. Its source

IS in the subject. It may be only a whisper there. But it grows

and swells. It is taken up and distributed. And it becomes a

great sound. And men must bear it whether they will or not.

It is different in the case before us now. The human creature
sped/es. But the living world beneath the human creature does
not speak. There are sounds in that lower living world, but no
articulation ; voices, but not words. This Society of our present
notice takes its stand upon no proclamation of wrongs. It takes
its stand upon discovered facts. It sends its agents into the
streets, and commissions them to oéserve. And they do observe.
And there they see an animal of draught or burden goaded to a
task beyond its strength, struggling but exhausted, straining but
spent. And there they see another such animal unﬁt for service
of any kind, disabled from work, but doing it under great distress ;
1n suffering and in pain. And there are other points of observa—

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

5

tion besides the streets. There are the docks and qu‘ays where
vessels discharge their burdens. The servants of this Society

watch the condition of the cattle after the voyage ; and still more
«carefully the manner of the landing, and the conduct of the
.drovers after the landing. And many a dark and gloomy register
might this Society lay before the public view of things which
happen in those places. But where was the tongue to tell of
them? And where was the voice that should ask for pity or
redress, if the speech of men had not passed into the midst of
these regions of dumbness and silence, and brought the wrongs
.up, and proclaimed them, and demanded penalty? Yes, there is
a penalty which the law inﬂicts when wrongs of this kind are
proved: but it is slender at the best 5 and even out of that
slenderness all is not always gotten that might be.

But does it now seem that the case is sufﬁciently presented?
and that if I ask for liberal support to the Society, which sorely
Wants additional powers for carrying its melancholy work effectually
on, I shall have adequately fulﬁlled my taSk so far as this appeal
is concerned, and may pass on to another line of thought? So far
as the appeal is concerned we do not proceed any further. I can
safely leave a claim like this, not to the humanity of feeling only,
but to the often-tested and proved generosity of this congregation.

But the surface of the question would only have been touched
by us if we left it here. We should have grounded the case only
on a sentiment. But that word in the text, “ because he had no
pity,” suggests something here that is deeper than a sentiment.

There is expressed by that term “ 720 pity,” a negation, a
property lacking, an endowment absent. We do not think of the
man of that supposed story as in our sense of the word pz'fz'less.
'We do not think of him (that is) as cruel. He was not robbing
the poor man of his one ewe lamb because he wished to distress
and afﬂict the poor man. At least there is nothing in the story
which implies that. But he took the ewe lamb because he
preferred doing this to taking any of his own. As to the grief
of that poor man, to whom the one ewe lamb was as a daughter,
that was simply outside the case. The rich man had lost the
faculty to form any judgment about it. The faculty lzaa’ been
there, but it was gone. Selﬁshness had extinguished it. He had
no pity. .

Now it is this principle or this fact incident to our human
nature upon which a Society for Preventing Cruelty to Animals
may well found its line of action. The agem‘s of the Society have
only to watch for the ads of cruelty; to take note of them,- to
summons the offender,,and to put the law in force as far as it will
go. BUt the Society itself in its tone and spirit will go deeper
than this. It will pass beyond the phenomena to the forces
below. And as it looks it will ﬁnd that it is not a force, but the

 




 

6

absence of a force, which has produced those sad and grievous
things upon the surface, with which it has to deal. It will discern
and recognise the fact that cruelty as itself a power-'—the love of
giving pain for pain’s sake—is a very rare thing indeed, even
among the most degenerate and most unlovely inheritors of this
our fallen nature. But it will also discern and recognise the fact,
that in a certain number of human spirits there is one deserted
spot—a blank—an empty place which had been occupied—but
upon which some force from without has fallen, and driven the
old dweller on that ground off, and left the ground void. [And
here, then, it will be found is the true seat and centre of the
action of a Society like this. For it will at once appear that if the
place had not been thus abandoned; if the power or property
which dwelt there once had not been by some violence dislodged;
then the acts which this company of persons is confederated to
withstand would have been simply impossible. For it was pz'ly
which dweltthere ; the quality which empowers a person to feel
for suffering not his own, in such manner, if not in such degree,
as if it were his own. This quality twice blessed—«as was said of
its kindred mercy—which blesseth him that gives and him that
takes, will where it dwells make impossible the inﬂiction of
suffering in any wanton way, or for any selﬁsh end.

And it is then for the restoring, the setting up again, the
re—habilitating this quality on the now barren ground where it
once stood, but from which it has been thrust out, that a Society
for Preventing Cruelty to Animals should mainly spend itself.
For it should be well remembered that it is not now some special
gift of Divine grace which some attain, and all if they seek it may
attain, about which we speak. It is not of faith, or meekness, or
the love of God, or any such like imparted gift of the Blessed
Spirit, that we speak. It is of a natural endowment which belongs
to all men; an attribute of our nature which came from God,
indeed, as all good things do ; but came through no solicitation
or seeking of ours—a common possession, which, if any have not
HOW, they are grievously the poorer for lack of it, but have only
themselves to blame ; for by their own act or consent it has lost
its place within them.

But now the task of reinstating this lost thing in the minds of
the class of men With whom this Society has chieﬂy to deal, ﬁnds
itself, at the very outset, face to face with a serious obstruction.

Ij‘or there is a class above that one—by all these human
estimates as far above that one as condition and circumstance
will allow—a class of men by intellectual acumen, by acquired
knowledge, by social position, holding a very foremost rank in the
country; and it is from the midst of these—a certain number of
them, perhaps not very large, but very inﬂuential, and the sway of
whose ascendancy is in these days most wide and imperious—that.

 




 

i___ 4,_‘_‘;4! f k/

 

7

the property of which we speak does seem to have banished
itself. There is a certain sphere of their actions, at all events,
forth from which they have cast out and extruded pity. And we
are able to mark the signs of the force which has driven it away.

The point of our present reference will be known without'the

" necessity of naming the odious name. And we would carefully

weigh each word that is said, and dismiss the subject as quickly
as the need for its introduction will allow. , ‘

The point is simply this. There are properties in our nature
which we know to be bad, such. as envy, pride, and above all, and
almost including all, selﬁshness. But there are other properties
of our nature which we know to be good. One of these is pity,
the compassion for suffering. Can it be right for any ends—high
in themselves they may be and excellent—to tread this good
property of our nature down and demolish it?

That I may exaggerate nothing, let me quote a very few words
written within the last few days in a popular monthly periodical
-by a prominent defender of the dissection of living animals (for
we must this once name the very thing). “The rocks,” he says,
“are broken and put in the crucible. The plant is dissected and
experiments are made by grafting and by cross fertilization. In
animal life the same method must be adopted to unlock the
secrets of nature. The question of the animal éez’ng sensitive
cannot alter f/ze mode of investigation. It is, therefore, sheer folly
and ignorance to stand in the path and forbid anyone walking in
the one right direction. All that Society should demand is that
t/zeir rights and privileges should not be interfered with.” This
is a literal quotation. And have I said too strongly that the
power of pity is crushed out of the soul of the Class in which this
writer is distinguished P “The question of the animal be1ng
sensiiive, or in other words that the animal may suffer agony,
cannot alter the mode of investigation.” And here we observe
that the defence of anaesthetics is put altogether aside by this
writer. It is well known that the effect of these emollients is
uncertain—that it never extends throughout the operation—and
that when what is called the necessity demands it, they are wholly
withheld. And this outspoken writer takes no account of them.
The animal fee/s. That is a misfortune, but it cannot be helped.
For the thing must be done. And the tone of the paper is, “Take
care of yourself, Society. Let the groaning creation groan. on;
Warm your houses. Trim your gardens. Prune your Vines.
Take your pleasant food. Say your courteous words. Do now
and then some kindly thing. But let the groaning creation groan
on. What has Society to do with that?” These men want the lower
creatures in their hands, to do with them what they will. They
chafe at the law which restrains them, albeit the law gives plenty
of scope. They are very angry with people who will not without

 




 

 

 

 

8

a struggle leave the lower creatures in their hands. For May only.

are qualiﬁed, so they say themselves, to hold the balance between
reason and sentiment.

But if we say of these men that they have no pity, is that an
unfair charge and unjust? Might it be more charitably and more
truly said that pity is not really extinct? That the high end in
View, “the relief of suffering humanity,” demands the experiment
of torture, and that pity only stands aloof for the time, and holds
herself back in pained and afﬂicted suspense? If so, the suffering
she endures is effectually veiled. Her very face is hidden com~
pletely out of sight. Never a sign or a symptom of her presence
appears in any account which I have ever read of these dreadful
things. And it must be owned that this line of defence is not
often taken. The answer comes always ﬁrst in the form of

retaliations—such as these—The sportsman does not always kill,

outright. What about the wounded game? The huntsmag has
his exhilarating run, but what about the terrors of the ﬂying
animal which is kept for the purpose? I am afraid that I must
leave the sportsman and the huntsman to answer these questions
to themselves. Still less is it any business of ours to offer apology
for the fashionable pastime of pigeon—shooting battues. The
members of those fraternities must be left to give their own account
of an amusement, which, to all reasonable thought, is only less
cruel than it is contemptible. Then it is said———some feathers are
procured for ornament at the cost of great suffering 3 we can but
say, more shame to those that buy and wear them. Some kinds of
food owe their particular delicacy and relish to the painful and
protracted killing. Then still greater shame to those that use
such food. And when this kind of retort or argument (if it be an
argument) is exhausted, another line is taken up. Will you stand
in the way of suffering humanity? Are not discoveries made, or
at all events is there not hope of discoveries being made, through
these torments upon the lower animals, whereby human pains
may be mitigated, human sicknesses relieved, and even human
life prolonged? And does- not this high end justify the means
that are used, grievous soever as they may be?

We shall have a word to say as to this before closing the
sermon. But we are constrained at once to observe that this plea
.as to suffering humanity is not an honest one. That is not the
motive of these experiments. Some are honest and say outright
what the motive is. This writer, from whose freshly-written paper
I have Just quoted—an ardent supporter of the whole system to
the very uttermost—z‘s honest. And he writes thus, “Physiologists
have defended their cause by showing the éemﬁz’s which have
.accrued from experiments on animals. All they have said iS
perfectly true. But it must be remembered that these good
results were not immediately in view, nor were they always the
chief object for which the physiologist performed his experiment.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

9

And he addssome further sentences, and concludes thus : If we
are to be asked what good end may be expected from these
researches, “the only answer which a really scientiﬁc man could
give would be~k7zozvledge.” There is the simple, undistorted fact. .
Knowledge (7/75/sz will do its good and useful service. But that
is a by-end. That is not the direct purpose here. It is the thirst
for know/edge, simply and abstractedly, which ﬁxes thought, strains
attention, and in this department of research quenches pity.*

And knowledge has its many branches in these regions of _
physiology. This instructed and representative apologist does
not limit the sphere. It is knowledge of every kind among these
organs of sensation which the man of science is bent on drawing ~-
forth. An Italian professor has taken up the section of/ﬁaz'rz.
He wished for knowledge about pain—the seat and centre of it-
the mode of its action—the eﬁzc/ of its action—and many particulars
besides. And he has lately written a book describing his
researches, which is entitled. the “ Physiology of pain.” And he
says in so many words that either the research must be aban-
doned, or it must be prosecuted at the cost of every description
of cruelty. He wants the knowledge, and has therefore no
hesitation as to which alternative he should choose. And albeit
the land upon which he enters is, he says, a barren land, with
here and there the trace of a traveller, but no way, no path—and
is left by him (by his own acknowledgment) after all the bound-
less agony which he has caused, is left by him almost as barren
as he found it: still, there is the thirst for knowledge, the hope
of knowledge, and surely that is enough. I shall not abuse my
privilege here by quoting from this book. Knowledge is wanted
about pain. So pain must be caused. And there are pages upon
pages of experimental description in this book, not one single line
of which I dare render here. But where, we now ask, is the
Divine pity which this man found once in his own breast? Is she
there still, only turning aside with averted face and starting tear,
while these necessary things, as they term it, these necessary things
which so afﬂict her are being done P We know the expression
“ con amore.” The words are Italian, but the phrase is become
quite English. We have no precise equivalent for it. It is
applied to a congenial pursuit followed up with zealous, eager
briskness. It is by this emotion, only with an added word which
grves intensity to it, that the writer of this book says that he 15
stirred in following up his researches. He mentions among. the
rest a case in which he says that hehas inﬂicted upon'the animal

*There are other inﬂuences also working here besides the thirst for know-
ledge. A book lately published at Lausanne, called “ Ayez Pitié,” discovers
the fact that many thousands of innocent creatures, as sensitive to pain as
mil“). are subjected year by year to untold barbarities, in order that one
l’l‘ySlOlOgist may enjoy the vulgar triumph of contradicting another physwloglst,
and that Herr This may out-vie Signor That by Opellillg out some supposed
new phase of an entirely trivial and perfectly aimless discovery.

 




 

10

under torture the greatest amount of pain which it could possibly
endure. And the scientiﬁc results are given. Con amore
“ Con 7/10/1'0 aﬁzore,”* but where is pity? The instrument for
causing torture is minutely described. And when the description
is’finishedfit is said that the instrument was constructed with
great ability. "r Where, now, is the Divine pity? Yes, but this
is an Italian : an Englishman would not write thus. An English—
man of mark and authority we remember has just written, that
knowledge is the end to be gained by all thisw—that the fact of the
animal being sensitive does not affect the case. This Italian wants
knowledge in the realm. of pain. The animal being sensitive does
not affect /zz's case. The Englishman and the Italian are
thoroughly at one. But the simple truth is that the men of this
order have inflicted upon themselves a moral mutilation. They
have strUck off a limb of the moral being. A principal organ of
afﬁnity with the rest of mankind is wanting to them. 2726)» izave
720, 1520'. Perhaps a sort of kindness—and perhaps a sort of
generosity—and perhaps some other admirable quality, but not
this faculty of compassion for suffering. They have no pity.
That relic of the Divine image in which man was ﬁrst created is
crushed out of them : and they do not seem to be aware of the
shrinking and abhorrence with which all who are not in that same
way deformed regard both themselves and their doings.

But we must end this sermon now. I said the plea of beneﬁting
mankind by these practices (disingenuous though for the most

*A French confrere to this Italian writes thus. “ The true vivisector must
approach a difﬁcult vivisection with the same joyful excitement, with the same
delight, as the surgeon when he approaches a difﬁcult operation, from which
he anticipates extraordinary consequences. He who shrinks from the section
of a living animal, he who approaches a vivisection as an unpleasant necessity,
may perhaps be able to repeat one or two particular vivisections, but he will
never become an arz’ist in w’m’secﬁon.” There is a proverbial description of
the French nation. \Ve deem it a libel on that great people. But the ﬁrst
half of it “ moitié tigre ”—we only hesitate to apply to the writer of the above
passage, lest we should wrong the tiger.

+ This skilfully constructed torture-machine does not however thoroughly
satisfy the torturer. He has added a device of his own. He has introduced
a board studded with nails, and so arranged that when the miserable creature
under treatment in a paroxysm of anguish thrusts out a limb, it may strike
against these nails, and thuswork the torture up to that required excruciating
point beyond which agony cannot go. And the author plumes himself on this
invention. And the “ chiodi soliti ” (accustomed nails) ﬁgure largely in his
experiments. This person does not stand alone in his ingenuity. A German
professor (Goltz by name) writes thus. “ To make a machine which shall
inﬂict needle pricks is not hard. One can easily employ the principle of the
sewing-machine.” He then describes his own construction of such a machine,
and proceeds, “If this instrument be applied thirty or forty times, changing
. the place of the needle each time, to the same skull, you may be Sure the
a perforated cortex of the brain is quite destroyed.” Experiments upon a dog
by means of this instrument are then described. They cemmenced on July
2nd, 1879, They'were resumed at intervals. Blindness came on gradually.
Senselessness supervened. The dog was killed on Feb. 2lst, 1881. So its
sufferings were prolonged for nine/em maul/is and nineteen days.

 

But . we give no further instances of these sickening horrors. There is a

 




 

11

part it be) must have a word from us as we drew to a close.
“Bemeﬁ/z'ng mail/rind! ” That is a large term. And with all the
force of contradiction which language can supply, we deny the
beneﬁting of mankind by these frightful cruelties. But-how may
you judge? it is said. Judge of things within your own. province.
And leave this question to men of science. If by. mankind we
understand a company of creatures having nerves, and veins, and
arteries, and circulating blood, and the rest of it, and 720 more,
then let the experts settle among themselves whether. mankind
has been or may be beneﬁted by knowledge drawn forth from the
anguish of the lower creation. They are not likely to settle this
easily. The array of learning and of argument is as strong on one
side as the other. A man of highest eminence in the medical
world, whose name we regret to see at the end of a paper in the
“Nineteenth Century” of this month* (of which the feebleness
is not the least satisfactory quality), defends these practices
vehemently, and puts down the service done to medicine by
means of them within the last ﬁfty years at perhapsa tenth or
perhaps a twentieth of the whole improvement it has received.
But if it is thus reduced to guesswork—and this he acknowledges
it to be——-we might add, perhaps a ﬁftieth, or perhaps a hundredth;

Putting that, however, altogether aside, we now say that'if
mankind, let us rather say man, is a being formed at ﬁrst in the
image of God, and made capable, by His power and grace in the
Second Man, to be reinstated in that image once more ; if there
be within the reach of man, nobleness, puritym—man/z’msswand
beyond this or rather with it—some Godward aspirations and
afﬁnities~then we reject with indignation this claim of infallible
science to sole and unchallenged authority as to that which
beneﬁts man. We say it is false, that man, not man’s body, bUt
man, can be blessed by deeds which shock to the very utmost
the undistorted moral sense, and the unpolluted conscience.

If this Were not a question profoundly of religion, I should
have wronged my trust by taking up your time With it here in this
church today. It is religion as against materialism which lies at

whole literature devoted to them. But all these men, according to Dr. VVilks,’
are “walking in the one right direction.” They are seeking “ knowledge.
It is “sheer folly and ignorance” to stand in their path. “NO one has
succeeded,” boasts Professor Goltz, “ no one has succeeded as well as mySfrlf
in obtaining such an extensive destruction of brain and in inﬂicting such lll-
treatment, and still prolonging life.” Truly a noble subjectef pride ! VYaS
that miserable dog an average or an extreme instance of this vaunted 51911,;
There was a prolonging of life in that case under the “ destroying of brain. _
process, for ﬁve hundred and ninety-four days. \\"as that ever outdone, or dld
the dexterity culminate there? But is not the man seeking knowledge _11b01}t
the brain? Do not then in your “sheer folly and ignorance” stand in. his
path; for the “question of the animal being sensitive,” says Dr. Wilks,
“ . . . .

cannot alter the mode of investigation.”

*December.

 




12

the root of this great controversy. MaterialiSm says, the end
_. consecrates the means when suffering humanity, or in other words
,the bodies of men, are at stake. JReligion'answers, the means
deserm/es {lie and when the higher’nature within you discovers the
frown upon them of the All Holy and All Merciful God. It is of
. course needless .to say that the writer of the book on pain to
which I have referred has cast‘ altogether aside what he calls
“the religion of the past.” In three lines at the end of the book
. he sketches out My “religion of the future.” Its watchword is,
joy. Coming from 272a! pen, and after all that has been written
before, this word joy springs up like a lurid ﬂash from the ﬁres of
. mzof/zer region.

Look at the Perfect Life : the expression of the mind of The
.Father. Is the fathomless suffering of weaker creatures, inﬂicted
upon them by stronger and higher creatures for some possible
advantage to themselves, in seeming harmony with the principle
of l/zat Life P Sacriﬁce was the law of that Life. Sacriﬁce—not
of creatures for Himself, but of Himself for the Whole creation.
And yetiyou say, He lived by the death of creatures. That is
emost true. ' And His disciples were ﬁshermen by trade. nd
ﬁshes mingled with the loaves in the mighty miracle. And the
'killing of the fatted calf comes within the scope of the greatest of
the parables. But killing is not cruelty. Life by death is the law
.of this universe. HP: did not subvert that law. With reverence
.we say He could not subvert it. He was Himself the supreme
illustration of it. .iDeath is not the terrible thing. Often it is the
very gracious and the very merciful thing. Life by death rules
round us now by God’s appointment. And life by death has
issues of glorious hope among the mysteries of the undeveloped
future. But my bodily ease through agony to others, my relief
through others" torment, flux! is not a God-made law. But
“ ol/zors ./ ” Do you call the lower creatures “ot/zers” ? I believe
Jesus would have called them so. Inferior, but still oz‘lzers. Y e
are better than the ravens. But “Godﬁeo’ef/z f/ze roams.” Ye are
of more value than many sparrows. But “ 7202' a sparrow fa/le/lz
lo #26 ground wz'l/zom‘yozzr Far/967'.”

~i34.<9:‘:~r l-~«+-< " *3:
“,‘-—~~* 2-7: 1 W
xv was fit.

,
21%»;th a» .3 r—-

BRISTOL:

__~_()__._.*_.

STEPHENS AND EYRE, PRINTERS.

 




