 

TWENTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1980

 

 




WHALES AND DOLPHINS
Battling The Commercial Whalers

The Animal Welfare Institute continues to lead the boycott campaign I
against the three major whaling countries, the Soviet Union, Japan and
Norway. Large advertisements were run in the following newspapers and-
magazines during the year: Time Europe, Life, TWA Ambassador, L03 1
Angeles Times, Parade, Motor Boating and Sailing and Miami Boat Show
Program, National Parks and Conservation Magazine, Sierra Club Bulletin,

Not Man Apart, New York Times, Real People, and the Boston Phoenix.

Response to the advertisements resulted in an extensive correspondence
and on June 20, 1980 a circular letter was sent to 27,000 friends of whales
suggesting letters to heads of state of whaling nations and giving current
information about each. I

AWI representatives organized presentations to the embassies of nations
that play key roles in the International Whaling Commission. The
Ambassadors of Iceland, Peru, Norway, and South Africa received ‘
delegations from AWI, Monitor/ USA, and the Society for Animal Protective ‘
Legislation. An estimated 195,000 signatures on petitions calling for an end to

I
I
I
I
I
I
I

 

commercial whaling were delivered to the Embassy of Japan on the occasion
of the visit of Prime Minister Ohira, and a special meeting with the Foreign
’ Minister’s staff was held.

Generous contributions made it possible for AWI to provide partial
assistance to several projects to bring the urgency of whale protection to
foreign governments. Martita Goshen made an effective flying trip to
Denmark where she danced the ballet she choreographed, “A Day in the
Life of a Whale”. John Perry took “Flo” the huge hot airballoon in the shape
of a humpback whale to England, Norway, Denmark, Holland. and France.
Jim Nollman took an electronic device, “The Iki Machine” to Iki Island in
Japan where the fishermen’s union rounds up and spears hundreds of
dolphins and shreds them in a monstrous “dolphin disposal” for use as
fertilizer. The fishermen claim that the migrating dolphins cause them to lose
good fishing days by frightening the buri (although the dolphins apparently do
not eat this species.) Nollman’s machine is designed to warn the dolphins
away, but despite lengthy negotiations he has never been allowed to try to
head the dolphins away from Iki. Union head Abata, after promising to let
Nollman and the two engineers who accompanied him know before any
dolphin killing took place, kept the first massive round up of the season
secret. The cruel methods of killing were recorded on film by Hardy Jones

who arrived by chance on the very day of the slaughter. A copy of this film has
been purchased by AWI.

 

 

COVER PHOTO

In violation of IWC rules, Soviet whalers killed nearly a thousand orcas in the
Antarctic early in 19807_using the cruel cold harpoon. Photo by John Domont.

1

 

 




 

 

 

 

3A»-

Hardy Jones.

Frank Robson, the New Zealand dolphin expert who came to lki the
previous year under AWI auspices, was interviewed in depth this year by
Nollman. New Age magazine published the interview in its March, 1980
issue, featuring Horace, a wild dolphin with whom Robson regularly
communicated over the nine month period when Horace frequented Napier
port. During the time Robson was at Iki no dolphins appeared so he was
limited to demonstrating his capacity to communicate to captive dolphins.

The meeting on Cetacean Behavior and Intelligence and the Ethics of
Killing Cetaceans at the Smithsonian Institution, April 28-May 1, 1980, was
the most significant break with the past yet established in the fight for
protection of whales and dolphins from the commercial exploitation which
has brought low the numbers of many of their species. Sponsored by the
International Whaling Commission, additional financial assistance was
provided by the governments of Australia and the United States, the Institute
for Delphinid Research, and thanks to a donation by a generous donor, the
Animal Welfare Institute.

Professor J. D. Ovington, Australia’s Commissioner to the IWC, was
Chairman of the conference. Dr. Sidney Holt chaired the intelligence and
behavior sessions; Dr. Lyall Watson, the ethics sessions. A collection of
relevant papers are to be published commercially.

The size and complexity of cetacean brains were discussed by Dr. M.S.
Jacobs of New York University and Dr. P.J. Morgane of the Worcester
Foundation for Experimental Biology. Dr. Roger Payne ‘spoke on “The
Intelligence of Whaling and the Ethics of Whales”. Although no Russian
scientists attended, a paper emphasizing the nature of cetacean brains was

submitted by A.V. Yablokov of the USSR. Academy of Sciences.
2

 

lki Island fishermanlstabs dolphiniwith spear in mass killing. Photo by ~

 




Running counter to the character of the meeting as a whole, were a series
of presentations» organized by a public relations man for the Japan Whaling
Association, which had initially attempted to have the word “intelligence”
removed from the title of the meeting. Some Japanese speakers contended
that this word was suitable for man alone.

The period covered by this annual report includes the 1979 meeting of the
IWC held in London, July 21-26th. Major action at this meeting was the

‘ creation of the Indian Ocean Sanctuary, proposed by the Government of the
Seychelles, and a moratorium on factory-ship whaling except for minke
whales, achieved through the persistence of advisor to the Panamanian I
delegation, Jean-Paul Fortom.

The largest demonstration ever held for whales filled Trafalgar Square and

generated worldwide publicity. A wire service photograph of “Flo”, ﬂying

under London Bridge was featured in the European and American press. .
' A long article in the August 1, 1979 Tokyo Shimbun, a newspaper of 31/2
million circulation, was headed, “Pirate Whaling: _ Taiyo Fisheries Role
Exposed - New Proof is Uncovered, Former Section Chief Fronts for
Dummy Company.” Taiyo Fisheries is the world’s biggest fishing company.
This hard-hitting Japanese press report was significant.

In an effort to end injury and death to dolphins incidental to tuna purse
seine operations by US. fishermen, AWI has been in the forefront in pressing
for expanded research on aggregating devices and tuna locating devices
which are not dependent on the encirclement of the dolphin schools with
which some schools of yellowfin tuna are associated. This year the tuna
industry and the National Science Foundation both made grants in the
hundred thousand dollar range to conduct the first year of necessary studies.
Funds for the second year are not yet available.

Environmental Defense Fund attorney Michael Bean represented AWI
and other groups at the Administrative Law Judge hearings on the report of
the Status of Porpoise Stocks WorkshOp on dolphin populations. One
important result of the hearings was the finding that setting purse seines
around dolphin schools less than an hour before sunset should not be
permitted owing to the increase in dolphin deaths in the seines when night
falls.

PUBLICATIONS

Two major Animal Welfare Institute publications were issued during the
year: the third edition of Facts About Furs, and the third edition of

fight.

Cats demonstrate some of their “normal postural adjustments”.

 

 

  

 

    

 




Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals. The second edition of First
Aid and Care of Small Animals was in press by the end of the period covered
in this repOrt. All~had been underway for periods varying from two to four
years.

AWI publications form the backbone of its educational work. Their quality
has constantly reached higher standards over the years and they now stand
unrivalled in their fields.

The new Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals is a handsomely
. designed 108-page manual with over 150 illustrations most of which show the
best existing examples of housing for species used in laboratories. The first
pages, however, delineate requirements of the federal Animal Welfare Act
with regard to housing, and show photographs of animals in institutions that
violate the minimum standards set by law. The concluding pages illustrate
the use of cell cultures and tissue cultures as alternatives to living animals for
some purposes. The last page consists of the policy of the Animal Welfare
Institute on the care and treatment of test animals.

Pictorial emphasis on the phrase “normal postural adjustments” which
US. Department of Agriculture regulations require for the different species,
was achieved through collection of photographs over a three—year period to
illustrate how much larger standard cages must be to allow a monkey to hang '
by his tail, a dog or rabbit to lie with hind legs and fore legs stretched out, or a
cat to take any one of this supple creature’s unexpected positions.

The manual has been distributed through circularizing the more than
15,000 members of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental
Biology, an announcement in Science, the journal of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science, and offering free copies to
medical and veterinary colleges and hundreds of other institutions, both
nonprofit and commercial, which use animals. It was reviewed in the
International Journal for the Study of Animal Problems and distributed by
the Institute for the Study of Animal Problems at the annual meeting of the
American Association for Laboratory Animal Science.

Facts About Furs, by Greta Nilsson, with a foreword by Samuel Peacock,
MD. of the AWI Scientific Committee, and chapters by John Gleiber and
Christine Stevens, is, in the words of the author of the‘first two editions, F.
Jean Vinter, M.D., “a veritable encyclopedia”, yet it is a compact 258-page
paperback with 79 illustrations, 47 charts and graphs, 18 appendices and an

index. A high compliment was paid it by Argus Archives, which specializes in l l

Photos by Joseph Spies.

 

 

 

      

 




 

 

 

intellectual scrutiny of major animal protection problems, when it decided
not to revise its own publication on the subject, but to substitute the new
Facts About Furs. In the United Kingdom, it is distributed by the Royal
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

First Aid and Care of Small Animals has been a long-time favorite with
school teachers—the first manual produced by AWI, authored by Ernest P.
Walker who wrote the classic Mammals of the World (John Hopkins Press,
1964). The second edition includes a new section on feeding of different
species of orphaned or injured birds provided by Ralph Heath of the
Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary whose success in rehabilitating endangered
brown pelicans is legendary. Many offspring of these “grounded” individuals
have ﬂown off from the open enclosures (where no bird is held captive against
its will) to restore the depleted wild population. Completed just at the end of
the period covered by this report, distribution will be described in the next
report.

During the year, AWI publications were distributed as follows: 585 copies
of Animal Expressions (54pp), 90 copies of Bird Business (81pp), 2,161
copies of Animals and Their Legal Rights (215pp), 1,468 copies of Facts
About Furs (258pp), and 14,627 copies of the leaflet “Let Us Live” were
distributed, many to librarians, teachers, veterinarians, most to
humanitarians in the general public. Manuals relating to laboratory animals
which were distributed largely free on request by scientists included 447
copies of Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals (195pp),
1,931 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals (108pp), 36
Spanish and 87 English copies of Basic Care of Experimental Animals
(78pp). School teachers ordered and received 5,791 copies of Humane
Biology Projects (57 pp), 5,485 copies of “Good Kind Lion”, 674 copies of
“You and Your Dog”, 395 copies of “Kittens and Cats”, and 357 copies of
First Aid and Care of Small Animals (45pp). Approximately 10,000 other

leaflets and miscellaneous items were provided to interested persons.
Whale campaign materials distributed during the year included 56,468

informational 4-page fliers, 9,510 petitions addressed to Japan, Russia, and
Norway, 6,770 boycott bumper stickers, 7,000 Save the Whale buttons,
3,283 posters, 1,107 T-shirts, 63 copies of Vanishing Giants (24pp) and 818
copies of Richard Ellis’ silkscreen print of humpback whales.

LABORATORY ANIMALS

The National Science Teachers Association board of directors adopted
guidelines March 215t on the use of live vertebrate animals at the pre-
university level which state: “N 0 experimental procedures shall be attempted
on mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, or fish that cause the animal pain or
distinct discomfort or that interfere with its health.”

The National Association of Biology Teachers board of directors adopted
similar guidelines June 14th. The guidelines represent an important move in
the direction advocated by AWI for the past twenty years.

5

 




No hearings were held on any of the four different bills concerning
laboratory animals pending in the 96th Congress; however, the widespread
public interest expressed led to a decision by the National Institutes of Health
to hold a symposium on the subject of bioassays in early 1981, focussing on
three different categories of tests: in uiuo (animals); in vitro (tissue culture,
cells, organs, bacteria) and mathematics including computers. Protests
against the cruelty of the Draize eye irritation tests mounted during the year
and part of a Food and Drug Administration training film showing how to pull
open a rabbit’s eyelid and drOp in an irritating substance was shown on
national television. The film included a shot of a shelf displaying oven cleaner-
-hardly a substance whose powers of intense irritation and destruction could
be in question.

AWI consultant Dr. Leon Bernstein, after examining the basis of the test,
which was developed during the second. World War for the purpose of
assessing the effectiveness of chemical substances considered for possible
use in chemical warfare, began work on a statistical analysis of the Draize
test. According to his findings, the numbers of rabbits being used is
unnecessarily high; that is, even though government agencies still insist upon
the use of the test, which may require as many as 18 rabbits, by testing one
rabbit at a time instead of six at once, a manufacturer can report the same
result while sparing many rabbits. Until a complete substitute for the Draize
test is developed, the AWI maintains that this sequential system should be
used and that anesthetics be used whenever a substance likely to be irritating
is tested. There is no excuse for continuing a system known to elicit screams
of pain when a powerful irritant is deliberately dropped into the eye of a fully
conscious animal.

The National Advisory Eye Council adopted a new policy, “Procedures to
Assure Freedom from Pain in Experiments upon Cold-blooded
Vertebrates”, October 25, 1979, which represents the kind of thinking so
lacking in the case of the Draize test.

Another forward step by scientists was the development of policy by the
International Committee on Laboratory Animals on the current repetition of
toxicity tests in each country. At its January 1979 meeting, ICLA noted that a
“...considerable reduction in numbers of animals used would follow if
national regulatory authorities could be persuaded to revise the number of
animals used in toxicity testing and avoid duplications from one country to
another.”

But such actions would not be good news to the world’s biggest laboratory
animal breeder, Charles River Breeding Laboratories, Inc. with its branches
in the UK, France, Italy and Japan. President Henry L. Foster, D.V.M., told
the New York Society of Security Analysts he was “enthused and excited”
about “soaring sales.” He pointed out that the Toxic Substances Control Act
and the Good Laboratory Practice regulations “should mean the use of more
animals, and we believe, the use of more Charles River Animals”. Even

l
l

 




 

 

 

 

 

before these regulations went into effect Charles River sales increased from
$3.9 million in 1968 to $24.4 million in 1978. From mice (the biggest sellers) to
primates (“we price primate business so that it doesn’t matter what species it
is.”) the business is booming, and more animals than ever are being used
worldwide, not because of research, but for mere tests of manufactured
substances. Clearly, the greatest need now is for effective tests that do not
use living, conscious animals.

Use of bacteria to test for carcinogenicity was developed by Dr. Bruce
Ames and is now being applied in some 2,000 laboratories. It is this test that
resulted in removal from the market of a cancer-causing substance furyl
furamide (AF -2) from Japanese food products after it had been declared safe
in tests on rats in 1962 and on mice in 1971. In the United States, 89% of the
major class of hair dyes caused bacteria to mutate in the Ames test. As a
result, the cosmetic industry modified the composition of most hair dyes.

Dr. Hilary Koprowski, a pioneer in developing substitutes for laboratory
animals, inventor of the vaccine against polio made by use of cells rather than
living monkeys, received an international award from the Felix- Wankel
Foundation 1n 1979.

ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL

Shri H. M. Patel, Chairman of the Indian Board for Wildlife was the 24th
recipient of the Schweitzer medal of the Animal Welfare Institute. The
distinguished Indian has served his country as Finance Minister and Home
Secretary in addition to his extensive work on behalf of wildlife. His new
book, A Policy for National Conservation, expresses his strong commitment
to the protection of the animals of India.

In accepting the Schweitzer Award he called for“ ..a new philosophy as it
were, that will enable us once again to live 1n harmony with nature, taking
only what we must from it, while supporting and strengthening the systems
that sustain it. It IS Institutions from all over the world such as the Animal
Welfare Institute of the USA inspired by the vision, humanity, and deep sense
of reverence for life of men like Albert Schweitzer, who must share
responsiblity for leadership in this great and vital endeavor.”

TRAPPING

Though 48 nations have banned use of the steel jaw leghold trap, the
United States remains among the stragglers who still permit use of this
agonizingly painful device. However, over three quarters of the American
public oppose its use as demonstrated by a highly professional survey
conducted by the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies for the
US. Fish and Wildlife Service under the direction of Dr. Stephen Kellert.
Phase I of “Public Attitudes Toward Critical Wildlife and Natural Habitat
Issues” was published early this year.

In November, 1979, Secretary of the Interior Cecil Andrus issued a
memorandum on predator control in which he called for a phase—out of lethal
methods. He stated in part, “All efforts will be made to utilize traps in the
most selective and humane manner possible, through such practices as the

7

 




Q‘ r; \‘z—aix'

 

  
  

 

t along a fence. Photo Mike Caro.

& ”A ' 'z

- Md! v.

A raccoon caught

in a steel jaw trap se

nu“ i»

Iowa fur dealer resting on a stack of raccoon skins he has just sold. Printed by
permission of Des Moines Register and Tribune.

8

 




 

use of tension devices, prohibition of bait sets, and frequent check of traps.”
The Fish and Wildlife Service uses a total of 51,000 steel jaw leghold traps for
predator control, thus the Secretary’s memorandum affects large numbers
of animals.

Senator Charles Percy (R., Ill.) conducted a television interview with Jan
Aberg, inventor of the Swedish leg snare and Dr. Jan Englund, who carried
out a comparative study of injuries caused by the steel jaw trap, formerly
used in Sweden, and the cable coated snare. The resulting video tape of this
informative discussion is available on loan from AWI.

Hearings on a bill to restrict the steel jaw leghold trap introduced by
Congressman Clarence Long (D., Md.) were twice scheduled in 1980, but
cancelled in both cases. Congressman Long plans to reintroduce the bill in
the new Congressional session.

 

Calves raised in cruel confinement. Courtesy Ruth Harrison.

ANIMAL MACHINES

At the 1979 meeting of the Animal Welfare Committee of the US. Animal
Health Association, AWI’s Diane Halverson presented a paper summarizing
her findings on intensive livestock methods that harm animals. It was
published in part in Information Report, Vol. 28, No. 4. Dr. Michael Fox of the
Institute for the Study of Animal Problems spoke on and showed slides of
animal suffering in factory farms. At the conclusion of these presentations,
the Committee appointed three veterinarians to look into and report back on
“alleged abuses in confinement handling of livestock and poultry” at the next
meeting: Dr. Bruce H. Ewald, Chairman, Division of Veterinary Medicine in
Blacksburg, Va. on Poultry, Dr. Stan Curtis from the University of Illinois, on
swine, and Dr. Robert E Horton, Director of Animal Health at the New
Jersey Department of Agriculture, on calf handling.

Diane Halverson also attended a conference on “Animal Agriculture and
Human Needs in the 215t Century” held in Boyne Falls, Michigan in May,
1980. The committee on which Ms. Halverson served reported that most
losses are caused by “disorders we call productive diseases which are very
different from epidemic diseases.” They “constitute the most economically
important diseases of livestock and poultry in the United States.” The

9

 




 

committee pointed to “a need to understand the influence of livestock
welfare on production and susceptibility to disease.”

In a letter published in the August, 1980 issue of Hog Farm Management,
Halverson questioned “...unqualified statements that the ‘life of the pig in
confinement is enhanced,’ that ‘restraint is the key to successful animal
production’...‘the sow that is housed in a crate during gestation, farrowing
and lactation — and in the plans of some experimenters, for artificial
insemination as well — or a boar that is released from a stall only to breed, is
instead subjected to excesses in physical restraint and deprivation,” she
wrote.

“Having been raised on my family’s dairy farm — an operation
supplemented at times by a small chicken flock, beef or swine herd — and
now helping to operate it as a primarily cash crop operation, this welfarist is
equally concerned With the economics and practicalities of farm
management and in particular, the survival and prosperity of family farms. In
my view, the achievement of adequate stock welfare does not have to be
incompatible with producer welfare...”

An AWI grant was made to the Farm Animal Trust in Britain to establish
the feasibility of rearing veal calves in roomy pens instead of the cramped
boxes or stalls in which the young animals cannot even stretch out their legs
normally when they lie down. The work has been influential in Britain. In May
of this year Quantock Veal announced that it is now raising its calves in
groups of 20-30 on beds of straw in well-lit, airy buildings with freedom to
move about. Quantock reportedly supplies about 90% of the veal sold to
British households.

Quantock states that it made the change because of “the cruelty stigma”.
It finds, however, that “loose housing works out to roughly £78 a calf
comparedwith £175 for the crated animal. The calves are more contented,
and the meat is of excellent quality.”

 

. gm.“

 

Good new method of housing calves by Quantock Veal. Photo by Quantock.
10

 




 

 

INFORMATION REPORTS

The quarterly Information reports of the AWI were distributed to
approximately 30,000 individuals and organizations including public libraries,
deans of medical and veterinary schools, teachers, scientists, and other
specialists who have requested the information, and AWI members.

Information Report articles whose subjects have not been mentioned in
the body of this report include:

Vol. 28 No. 3. Bird-Protection. The directive of the Council of European
Communities on bird protection rules that nets, traps, exposives, poisons
and other devices for snaring birds are forbidden in member States as of
February 1981. Hitherto every spring and fall migratory birds in their tens of
thousands have been slaughtered by hunters in Italy, France and elsewhere.

Chemical testing-without animals. The screening of man-made chemicals
for cancer—producing properties need not involve animals. Bacteria can be
used and are being used instead as “what is detrimental to bacterial DNA is
likely to harm human DNA.” Because bacteria will multiply at prodigious
speed and can be manipulated with relative ease, bacterial tests have clear
advantages over animal tests (quite apart from humane considerations),
particularly since anything up to 1000 new man-made chemicals come on to
the market every year. .

Coyotes can help guard sheep! Sheep farmers in Saskatchewan are being
encouraged by the provincial government to use non-lethal lithium chloride
baits in order to cure the local coyote population of any inborn liking for lamb.
More than this -- the coyotes then act as resident rodent eaters and
defenders of their territory against ‘unconditioned’ coyotes from outside. As
the government leaflet pithily puts it: “Watch out for signs of no coyotes or
new coyotes, then look out!”

Uganda’s elephants. Uganda imposed a 5-year ban on hunting in August
1979 in an attempt to save the country’s remaining elephants and other wild
animals which were wantonly massacred by ldi Amin’s troops -- and later by
liberating Tanzanians.

The Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild animals
was signed in Bonn, West Germany, June 23, 1979.

The European Convention for the Protection of Animals for Slaughter was
signed in Strasbourg May 10, 1979.

Vol. 28 No. 4. Cutting ivory imports. At the end of 1979 the House of
Representatives passed a bill severely restricting U.S. imports of ivory, but
the Senate did not pass it. Meanwhile enormous quantities of ivory continue
to be exported illegally from African countries to the world at-large especially
via the Belgian port of Antwerp.

Flying animals. The 1979 meeting of the Animal Air Transport Association
was held in Washington, DC. - home of the National Zoo and the Peking
. pandas. In the opening speech of welcome, Ingrid Newkirk (deputizing for
. Mayor Barry) said: “Indirectly these two pandas were responsible for the
Humane Transport Law of 1975. Their much-publicized flight from Peking
prompted one of our more concerned citizens to write a letter to the

11

 




 

 

 

 

 

Washington Star pointing out that other animals also need some tender,
loving care while traveling.” The result was a nation-wide crusade that
brought much-needed reforms in animal transport. Which goes to show that
a caring and informed public can make things happen!

The High Court in Frankfort, West Germany declared that standard hen
battery cages lead to “continuous cruelty” because the hens’ inherent
behavior such as wing flapping, scratching, stretching and cleaning is
prevented. The Minister of Agriculture has placed the matter before the
European Economic Community with a view to eventual banning of the
present commercial battery cages.

The California legislature passed a resolution authored by Senator David
Roberti which states in part “to advance our civilization we must become
aware of the rights of all animals.’

Vol. 29 No.1. Federal Humane Slaughter Act regulations were
promulgated November 20, 1979 covering all animals at federally inspected
plants from the time they arrive at the plant. Federal inSpection is now
suspended when inhumane practices are found by inspectors. This provides
a powerful financial incentive for compliance by packers.

The Austrian Academy of Sciences confirmed the success of wildlife
refleCtors on roadways in preventing deer and other animals from colliding
with oncoming cars at night. The Swaraflex reflectors are now being tested
by several states in this country.

Vol. 29 No. 2. The US. Department of Agriculture predicted the end of “old
fashioned” pig farming, but small farmers say tax subsidies to hog factories
could be eliminated. They point out that hog factories have resulted in higher
death losses due to the crowded, high stress confinement environment.

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES

MADE BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

International Whaling Commission, London, England, July 9-13, 1979.

American Psychological Association Convention, New York City,
September 1-5, 1979.

International Association of Biological Standardization Symposium on the
“Standardization of Animals to Improve Biomedical Research, Production
and Control.” San Antonio, Texas, September 16-20, 1979.

International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies annual meeting,
West Yellowstone, Montana, September 11-12, 1979. AWI President took
part in a debate on State Rights and Responsibilities vs Federal Rights and
Responsibilities.

National Association of Biology Teachers Convention, New Orleans,
Louisiana, October 26, 1979. Dr. John Beary presented a workshop on
“Alternatives to Live Animal Experimentation in Secondary School Biology
courses.” AWI booth exhibit.

Fourth Charles River International Symposium on Laboratory Animals,
“Defining the Laboratory Animal and its Environment; Setting the
Paramaters,” Boston, Massachusetts, October 29-31, 1979. '

12

 




 

 

 

Animal Air Transportation Association annual meeting, Washington,
DC, October 30-November 1, 1979. AWI President took part in an open
forum with government representatives.

U.S. Animal Health Association annual meeting, Los Angeles, California,
October 20, 1979. Animal Welfare Committee, Diane Halverson presented a
paper on “A Discussion of Current Methods and Trends in the Rearing of
Cattle and Swine.”

Institute for the Study of Animal Problems conference on “Pain, Stress,
and Suffering: Definition, Quantitation and Application to Animal Welfare
Issues,” Orlando, Florida, November 7, 1979.

International Sea Turtle Conference, Department of State, Washington,
D.C.,. November 26-30, 1979.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Interagency meetings
on US. participation in the International Whaling Commission meeting,
January - July, 1980.

School of Forestry and Environmental Studies of Yale University and the
Geraldine R Dodge Foundation held a workshop February 7,1980 in New
York City. AWI President took part in the Policy and Management Issues
segment for the development of a human/animal ecology program
addressing animal welfare and animal rights in a scientific university context.

National Science Teachers Association, Anaheim, California, March 21-
24, 1980. Dr. F. Barbara Orlans presented workshop on “Plants, Worms,
Insects, Mammals -- Classroom Maintenance, Projects and Code of
Practice.” AWI booth exhibit.

Symposium at Michigan State University: “The Question of Animal
Consciousness Philosophical and Biological Perspectives,” East Lansing,
Michigan, April 5, 1980.

Workshop on reducing Tankbarge Pollution, Washington, D. G, April 15-
16, 1980. Fran Lipscomb attended.

Meeting of World Working Group on Parrots, Survival Service
Commission, International Union for the Conservation of Nature, St. Lucia,
West Indies, April 15-19, 1980. Greta Nilsson attended.

State Council of Governments committee meeting, Washington, DC,
April 25, 1980. Fran Lipscomb spoke on adoption of new humane slaughter
recommendations to states.

Conference on Cetacean Behavior and Intelligence and the Ethics of
Killing Cetaceans, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC, April 28-May
1, 1980.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC, Attended weekly meetings.

13

 

 




 

AWI STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1980

 

Salaries
Payroll taxes

Newspaper ads against commercial whaling

Information Reports
“Facts About Furs”

“Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”

Annual reports
Other AWI Publications

T-shirts, bumper stickers, buttons, & posters

Research & writing
Grants
Conferences, meetings, & travel

Postage, mailing and addressing costs
(Except for Information Reports)

Stationery, printing, & office supplies

Professional services

Memberships & subscriptions

Acquisition of books & other educational
materials

Total expenses before depreciation

Depreciation on fixtures and equipment

TOTAL EXPENSES

Program Services

Supporting Services

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Public Management Total
Education Save The And Fund All
8: Projects Whales Total General Raising Expenses
$ 45,666 $ 22,108 67,774 $13,083 $ 4,236 $ 85,093
3,485 1,302 4,787 1,443 300 6,530
- 59 ,981 59,981 — 43 ,594 103 ,5 75
13,109 3,994 17,103 56 - 17,159
31,418 - 31,418 57 - 31,475
14 ,600 - 14,600 - - 14,600
1,873 1,873 3,746 - ~ 3,746
3,031 4,590 7,621 63 127 7,811
- 5,262 5,262 237 2 ,998 8,497
4,922 5,115 10,037 - - 10,037
7,071 17,750 24,821 800 - 25,621
10,298 15,724 26,022 414 - 26,436
15,989 4,008 19,997 2,602 324 22,923
8,203 3,407 11,610 6,077 124 17,811
81 - 81 3 ,292 - 3 ,3 73
9,230 4,331 13,561 61 201 13,823
2 ,5 74 3,384 5,958 - 698 6,656
171,550 152,829 324,379 28,185 52,602 405,166
456 - 456 152 152 760
$172,006 $152,829 $324,835 $28,337 $52 ,754 $405,926

 

l4

 




/\

l

(l.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Scientific Committee
Majorie Anchel, PhD.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Officers and Directors

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
John Beary, M.D., Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Leon Bernstein, Ph.D., M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P., Consultant in Physiology

Maria Gulino, Administrative
Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research
Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Secretary

International Committee

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.——Greece

Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., M.D.,
B.Sc., M.I. Biol—United Kingdom

Angela King—United Kingdom

David Ricardo—Canada

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Madeleine Bemelmans
Dr. Gerard Bertrand
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill
Freeborn Jewett
Aileen Train

Fran Lipscomb, Executive
Assistant

Lisa Melvin, Staff Assistant

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Greta Nilsson, Research Assistant

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant
Treasurer

Sheryl Sternenberg, Publications
Secretary

 

Suggested form of bequest:

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully
accepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the

‘ Institute’s much-needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the
Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals.
Please remember the Institute in your will.

I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of .............. dollars
(or if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Printed in USA.

 




 




ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
TO ROGER AND KATHARINE PAYNE

“If we can fire the imagination of the human world on behalf of non-human
life, we can inspire a constituency for the wild world which will rise, roaring, to
its feet and demand the rights_of all life on earth.”

Thus did Dr. Roger Payne on behalf of himself and his wife Katharine,
respond to the presentation of the 1980 Schweitzer Medal by Senator Paul
Tsongas of Massachusetts. Their studies of southern Right whales and
recordings of “The Songs of the Humpback Whale” support their ethical
views.

The ceremony took place in the hearing room of the Senate Commerce
Committee on February fifth to a standing room only audience.

“It is because whales are such grand and glowing creatures that their
deaths for commerce degrade us so. It will confound our descendants. We
are the generation that searched on Mars for evidence of life but couldn’t
rouse enough moral sense to stop the destruction of even the grandest
manifestations of life on earth,” the medalist said. He quoted Chief Seattle
who, in 1884, stated, “What happens to beasts will happen to man. All things
are connected. If the great beasts are gone, men would surely die of a great
loneliness of spirit.”

Payne said he had “long felt that the love of all life on earth (a concept that
is interchangeable with the word conservation) needs to be written into
religions—is in fact overdue to become a religion in its own right.” He called
science the strongest ally of “this immortal oneness.”

Concluding, he said, “if man can progress that far and recognize that he is
not the master of ceremonies but just another pretty face among millions of
other beguiling species, and that all us species have bit parts—crucial bit
parts—that it is no disgrace to have a bit part if one plays it well, then the
show can go on. If this ever comes to passwe will be living in a more
enlightened world and will not be facing the prospect of dying from a great
loneliness of spirit.”

LABORATORY ANIMALS

“The thread of life as captured in DNA is showing a profound similarity in
all life forms. Ten years from now our views on ethics will be labelled
biologically naive.” This statement from Associate Director of the National
Institutes of Health, Dr. William Raub, in his summation of a three-day
symposium on biological testing methods seemed to re-echo Roger Payne’s
“immortal oneness,” and to give hope that science, in whose name so much

 

 

COVER PHOTO

A parent Puerto Rican Parrot with its young at the entrance to the nest hole.
Photographed in the Luquillo National Forest Puerto Rico. Courtesy Noel
Snyder, US. Fish and Wildlife Service.

1

 

 




 

pain has been inflicted on animals, may be entering a new phase where
recognition of the claims of other species must be accepted by scientists who
don’t want to be considered biologically naive.

The symposium, sponsored by the National Institutes of Health February
18-20, was scheduled to be opened by Nobel Laureate Dr. Joshua
Lederberg, but illness prevented him from travelling to Washington.
However, a recent statement exemplifies his position:

“The one or two or three hundred million dollars a year
that we’re now spending on routine animal tests are almost
worthless from the point of view of standard-setting . . .
It is simply not possible with all the animals in the world to
go through new chemicals in the blind way that we have at
the present time, and reach credible conclusions about the
hazards to human health. We are at an impasse. It is one
that has deep scientific roots and we had better do some-
thing about it.”

WW

 

The symposium did not reveal that a great deal was being done about it,
however, despite the fact that, as Dr. Richard Griesemer pointed out, it
would take two centuries to screen all substances in commerce by means of
current animal tests.

Advances in tissue culture, monoclonal antibodies, and cell lines were
cited, but there was no indication of any responsible group bringing the
information together with a view to practical, broad scale action. Only the
Interagency Regulatory Liaison Group under the direction of Dr. Victor
Morganroth has been trying, at least, to prevent duplicate testing on animals
by the different agencies who have already spent an estimated billion dollars
in totally unnecessary animal tests, many of them painful, because one
government agency did not know what the other one was doing.

AWI was well represented at the symposium with Scientific Committee
members, Dr. Marjorie Anchel and Dr. Barbara Orlans, and Vice President
for Science Dr. John Beary, making significant contributions to the
discussion, and AWI President Christine Stevens acting as a panelist. All
criticized the status quo and called for action.

At the 1981 annual meeting of the Animal Behavior Society held June
22nd-26th, AWI’s Maria L. Gulino showed the BBC documentary film, “A
World About Us - Down on the Factory Farm.”

 




 

At the AWI booth, copies of “Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory
Animals” and “Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals” were
made available to members of the Society free of charge. A total of 149
“Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals” and 68 “Physical and
Mental Suffering” were distributed at the meeting or ordered in response to
an announcement in the “Animal Behavior Society Newsletter.”

TRAPPING

The nationally televised “Those Amazing Animals” twice carried an
important segment on the steel jaw leghold trap during this year. Dr. John
Beary, AWI Vice President for Science, spoke against this cruel trap while
Don Hoyt, Sr., President of the national Trappers Association, insisted upon
its continued use. A powerful documentary film of animals caught in these
traps was supplied by the Association for the Protection of Fur Bearing
Animals. The terrible struggles of the animals and their pitiful groans strongly
supported Dr. Beary’s call for abolition of the steel jaw leghold trap and
demonstrated the inaccuracy of Mr. Hoyt’s claims.

 

 

Trapped Coyote from the ﬁlm, “The Sham and the
Shame,” produced by APF BA, partially funded by AWI.
Film by Ed Caesar.

Dr. Beary was also scheduled to present a paper at the Worldwide
Furbearer Conference, August 3-9, at the University of Maryland,
F rostburg campus, but his medical duties prevented him from attending, so
AWI’s president read the paper in his place. A spirited debate after the
presentation proved so extensive that the chairman called a lunch break and
resumed the discussion thereafter. Trapper spokesmen, attempting to
denigrate the Novak leg snare, described earlier by its inventor, claimed it
would catch deer and elk whereas the steel jaw leghold trap never did.
Documentation in AWl’s Fact About Furs disproved this contention with
photographs of a pronghorn antelope, a deer and a fawn, all victims of the
trap. The antelope photograph from Sports Afield, November, 1965, was

 




 

 

 

accompanied by a report by Earle Stanley Gardner, who followed the tracks
of the animal in an attempt to save it, but found it only after it had succumbed
to blood poisoning

Milan Novak reported on a comparative study using #2 steel jaw leghold
traps and the foot snare he developed; 52% of the animals caught in the traps
had serious injuries whereas only 2% caught in the foot snares had such
injuries. Nevertheless, the US. trappers and furriers, far from welcoming this
information, criticized and grumbled.

Wildlife biologists from 28 nations attending the conference mainly
remained silent but eagerly reached for the free copies of Fact About Furs
which AWI representatives Fran Lipscomb and Cathy Liss made available to
them. More than 150 copies were immediately requested and distributed.

A further distribution was made this spring under the auspices of the
International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, which sent a letter to
each State Fish and Game Agency and to its members in Canada and
Mexico, offering free copies after Fran Lipscomb made a presentation to the
spring meeting of the Association’s Executive Committee. The following
states have asked for them: Alaska, Arizona, Florida, Idaho, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York,
Nevada, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia, Vermont, Washington,
West Virginia, Wyoming, as well as British Columbia and Ontario in Canada.

  

Photo by Michael Fox

This Pronghorn antelope staggered in agony for two days until
killed by blood poisoning from leghold trap injury.

 




 

.AMfi‘r Hi... "If A1 111111131

.. 13 11131.. 191.19 aliv targtz 11111133991“ of meetings and conferences at which farm
animai 11.11ci;fa.19 W99 11199119111: tool-1 p1 ace during the year. AWI Research
Associate L11 9:119 Haiti/e 9ontoot1 part in five of them: At the annual meeting of
the: US Arri 1.1191 Health Association, held November 1980 in Louisville, she
9.11119 on th9 continued responsibility of the USAHA Animal Welfare
19391331911 to piay a rote in the development of farm animal welfare issues.

Dr nmers pio neering observations and film of violent bar-
loitir 113g ano otnei abnormai oehavior by sows confined 1n narrow stalls, unable
to torn around 91311 Writ 1ont straw beddingw , were shown at the quadrennial
confer eren 91:1.f tho Wot ld Federation tor the Protection of Animals 1n 1978. A
vetorinarta an wno conducted her research at the University of Munich, she
orovioe 9.) 139.131: 9r 19991111111911.1991 fifeport, Vol. 30, No. 1) and a copy of her

13' 1111111191 .Veifare institute. it was shown by Diane Halverson, who
- trad 9 1391191 or. 1 iiv astoch and poultry welfare, to professors and
stooents o. the University of Minnesota College of Veterinary Medicine,
bepartrnents of Agricuituralr Engineering and Animal Science

A month later, the. Aniniai Welfare institute arranged for Dr. Sommer
herself to di 991199, with this same audience, the film and her research which
forms part of her doctorai dissertation.

At the Nationai Frame Builders Association annual meeting, Ms.
iriaivr:rsor1 toolt. part in a program opposite animal welfare critics. At a
meeting sponsored by the Anti—Cruelty Society of Chicago on farming
controversies, she served as a paneiist discussing farm animal welfare
conceri 119. She. also spoke to the annual meeting of the Midwest Plan Service,
an organization of ' ag r1 cultural
enoineersO

A Wife ntin no d its
port of ' Far m

1

f

3

Ci 2( 3.19}

,1.

>L

financial sup—
Animal Trust
gand care of
final report is to be
Autumn, t98l’1.

2:511“:

research on tho hon sing
veal can/9 s. A
ompietedi3 113

 

 

Photos by Michael Fox

 

 

A painfully de-beaked battery hen.

A “white veal” industry calf imprisoned in a
crate from which it is not released until
trucked to the slaughterhouse.




PUBLICATIONS

With a forward by S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, a revised and greatly expanded edition of “The Bird Business, A
Study of the Commercial Bird Trade,” by Greta Nilsson was published this
February. The 121-page paperback with 79 illustrations and 25 tables and
charts includes a center section of sixteen color pages thanks to the
generosity of Edward Wright, Ltd., who printed them as a contribution to the
protection of birds.

Two hundred copies were sent by air for the delegates to the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered Species held in New Delhi, India,
February 25-March 8. AWI Administrative Assistant, Fran Lipscomb, took
part in the meeting where 50 nations were represented.

The Bird Business documents heavy losses— up to 85% in the international
cage bird trade. Some 71/2 million birds are shipped annually from Asia, Africa
and Latin America to the major markets: Japan, the United States, and
Europe. The lucrative smuggling of protected species further depletes them
in the wild, and all too often spreads Exotic Newcastle Disease or other
infections.

These facts and others were of great concern to the CITES delegates.
They voted 32-4 to place all members of the parrot family on Appendix I or
Appendix II of the Convention, thus requiring documentation for export of all
psittacine birds, an important forward step in stemming the destructive tide
of commercial exploitation. It was fiercely opposed by the pet trade and
aviculturists who sought to persuade the United States to file a reservation.
However, the government wisely decided to adhere to the overwhelming
majority decision of the parties to CITES.

The usefulness of The Bird Business is attested to by the US. Customs
Service, which ordered 600 copies in order to provide a copy to all Customs
inspectors involved in wildlife imports. These were given to Customs without
charge. Free copies are also available on request to libraries, humane
societies and personnel of wildlife agencies at all levels of government, lOCal
or national. Twenty-four state wildlife agencies, three Canadian provincial
agencies, and Mexico have requested copies.

A new edition of First Aid and Care of Small Animals was published this
year. Most popular with teachers of all AWI manuals, the first edition was
written by Ernest P. Walker, author of Mammals of the World, published by
the Johns Hopkins Press. Ralph Heath, founder of the Suncoast Seabird
Sanctuary added substantially to the latest edition, and his picture returning
to the wild a bird successfully treated and recovered from its injuries, appears
on the cover.

In press is Whales us. Whalers, a compendium of AWI Information Report
articles from 1971-1981. The 64-page paperback book will be available free to
libraries, humane societies and other organizations working for whales. The
general public may purchase it at the cost price of three dollars. '

6

 




 

 

 

AWI publications are designed to
inform readers so they can take knowl-
edgable action to help animals. Their '
inﬂuence is being increasingly widely
felt as they are used effectively by 8‘
people with or without professional
expertise in the particular field involved.

During the year, AWI publications
were distributed as follows: 2569 copies _
of The Bird Business (121 pp), 4391 .
copies of Facts About Furs (258 pp), .
1525 copies ofAnimaIs and TheirLegal . ‘
Rights (215 pp), 296 copies of Animal j
Expressions (54 pp), and 16,398 copies
of the leaﬂet “Let Us Live”. Many
were provided to librarians, teachers,
veterinarians, most to humanitarians in
the general public. Manuals relating to .2 ._ .
laboratory animals which were distri- Ralph Heath freeing a rehabilitated
buted largely free on request by scien- Red KnOt-
tists included 1862 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
(108 pp), 185 copies of Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental
Animals (195 pp), 31 Spanish and 17 English copies of Basic Care of Exper-
imental Animals (78 pp). School teachers ordered and received 3494 copies
of First Aid and Care of Small Animals (45 pp), 1506 copies of Humane
Biology Projects (57 pp), 2315 copies of “Good Kind Lion,” 2941 copies of
“You and Your Dog,” and 2696 copies of “Kittens and Cats.” Approximately
10,000 other leaﬂets and miscellaneous items were provided to interested
persons.

WHALES

The campaign to save the whales picked up new strength this year with the
distribution nationwide of television public service announcements featuring
Jack Lord and Gregory Peck. Ninety-six stations in 43 states ran the spots,
many of them repeatedly.

Advertising in newspapers and magazines continued with half-page ads in
Time Europe, The Economist (UK), and The London Times shortly before
the 1981 International Whaling Commission meeting, and ads in The New
York Times, The Los Angeles Times, The Los Angeles Herald-Examiner,
and The Washington Post earlier.

“The Whales Versus Japan” by Christine Stevens was published in the
September, 1980 issue of The Living Wilderness. It described the events at
the 1980 IWC meeting. It was placed in The Congressional Record by
Congressman Don Bonker. Reprints are available from AWI.

Save the whale campaign materials distributed during the year included

 

Photo by Kevin Butler

6&1- ’




m

Photo by Kevin Bu

tier '

21,200 ﬂiers, 747 T-shirts, 9650 bumper stickers, 4575 buttons, 1737 posters,
6690 petitions, 207 copies of Vanishing Giants, 2500 copies of “The Whales
Versus Japan,” and 956 copies of Richard Ellis’ silkscreen print of humpback
whales or sperm whales.

On June 18, 1981, a six-page letter was sent to 14,000 friends of whales
suggesting how they could help by writing letters to 24 heads of state.

The 1981 meeting of the IWC took place just after the period covered in
this annual report. Thus the July 21-26, 1980 meeting will be summarized
here with a few footnotes on the 1981 meeting for clarity. The chief gain was a
ban on the cold harpoon for all whales except the minke, the smallest of the
whales.*

The most serious failure was the loss by a single vote of the proposed
moratorium on killing of sperm whales. Canada was the only non-whaling
nation to vote against the sperm whale moratorium, and a storm of protest
immediately arose since it was the swing vote. The Canadian flag was burned
on the street outside the Metropole Hotel where the IWC was meeting, and
following the meeting, a coalition of Canadian groups formed “The Whale
Project” and provided well-documented and handsomely produced
informational materials to all members of Parliament and government
officials. The result was an announcement by the Canadian Government
June 26, 1981 that it was withdrawing from the IWC.** This automatically
removed the Canadian Commissioner, Mac Mercer, from action and was
especially auspicious in that he had been in line to become the Chairman of
the IWC in 1981. _

During the visit of Prime Minister Suzuki to Washington, whale campaign
materials including copies of the Gregory Peck and Jack Lord television
tapes calling for an end to commercial whaling were distributed to the large
contingent of Japanese press and media representatives present. The State
Department and Members of Congress raised the issue with the Prime
Minister and accompanying delegation. AWI anti- whaling ads ran in The
New York Times and The Washington Post on the days the Prime Minister
arrived in those cities.

AWI representatives paid calls on the Ambassadors of Denmark and
Norway before the IWC meeting to discuss their nations’ policies. 7

The first Norwegian Whale Day was held June 15, 1981, and AWI provided
T-shirts, posters and ﬂiers for the event which was widely reported in the
Norwegian press. The television tapes of Gregory Peck and Jack Lord were
also sent, and a % page story began with a photo of Peck, who portrayed
Captain Ahab in the film‘ ‘Moby Dick, but is, in person, the whales’
defender.

*Cold harpoons were banned for minke whales at the ’81 meeting, but the ban does not begin
until the 1982- 83 season.

**Canada’ 5 withdrawal will be effective June 30, 1982, but Canadian representatives to the
1981 IWC were instructed to act only as observers and to cast no votes.

 




 

J?
15;

L;

.Jsd

1’11 1th REJEQRT

9111/11/11: 1:11:11) :11terl121 Jntormation Reperts tools on a new Joe-k and. new life
meeirinin'; ,1/ 11 13 e J 1111.1 1511111111319 5eptember 1980 issue when Patrick Allen
became 1:211 tori: 1l Consultant 11 T31):: mer editor of the JUCN Bulletin he is an
Aperienred editor with a. Jively sens e 1211' the urgency of onset yation and
11111 cruelty 1551,:1esM1)re pages; more pictures, and more coverage of
15111112111 anirwi vi’FBJta 112 a1: 1101) ina highly readable and succinct presentation
1111:1111.“ tne J :1 triusi '“ 15- erynne 1 1111:1911 ed with pro otection of animals. A

 

1.1121111teatur-e: new appearing 11.215111111111111 eachissue is “Periodical Pleasures”
3:131; John (1111:)? 1111111) review magazines and journals re elat ing to ti ewelfare
1:11? anirnaJs. 1‘: 30113113111 cepies of ea h it, 111., go out to public l101eries deans
of 1:111:11“?1 :rl "1e._e1112a111 me 1J1 cai seJiools, teachers scientists, and AWI
mmiers He’es on subieets 101: yet mentioned. in this annual report
inciude the toJlowisg:

’nJ2199111113.“t‘étotjailifcri sons Wnere—JoosGuardSheep reportson

Iauat‘ding 11s sueeesstui 3.;11‘oteretion or sheep in herds up to one thousand in

 

Komondor guarding young lamb

conservation of animals and birds that are not hunted.

The Presidental Medal of Freedom was awarded posthumously to Rachel
Carson, author of Silent Spring, former member of AWl’s Scientific
Committee and Schweitzer medalist.

Eight federal agents and a prosecutor were honored by the Monitor
consortium for their vigorous enforcement of wildlife laws.

The proposal by the US. Fish and Wildlife Service to lift the six-year ban
on commercial imports of three large species of kangaroos was followed by

Photo by Mary Bloom




an Interior Department hearing, with no decision reached.

The deaths of dolphins in tuna purse seines set at sundown has increased
from 3655 in 1977 to 6585 in 1979 and should be prohibited because darkness
makes it mOre difficult to release the marine mammals from the nets.

Vol. 29, No. 4 “Disgraceful distortion of findings on ‘steel jaw’ traps”
describes the repeatedly publicized claim that a Northern Michigan
University study revealed that no trapped coyote “has suffered any serious
injury.” In fact, however, of the three coyotes caught with steel jaw traps and
set free with radio collars, two were later found dead of starvation with their
trapped feet “badly torn and chewed exposing broken bones” or completely
chewed off.

“Will Michigan outlaw the steel jaw?” reports on hearings in the state
legislature on the bill for that purpose. Dr. John Beary testified with a
demonstration of a trap, inviting those who claimed it was not cruel to put
their fingers in and leave them there for an hour. There were no volunteers.

Four reports on endangered sea turtles included indictment of the
notorious Antonio Suarez charged with importing Pacific Ridley turtle meat
into the US. with false documents; an expose over Costa Rican TV on cruel
and illegal slaughter of green turtles; development of a “trap door” in shrimp
nets to al10w sea turtles to escape; and a plea by Archie Carr, Jr. to halt the
purchase of all tortoiseshell.

A petition by Mexican veterinarians to President Lopez Portillo of Mexico
calling for an animal protective law was excerpted. (The law was
subsequently passed for Mexico City and is pending in the rest of the
country.)

Three international meetings were reported: the World Society for the
Protection of Animals and the First European Conference on the Protection
of Farm Animals, both in Amsterdam; and in Cambridge, England, an
International Whaling Commission Committee meeting on humane killing.

Creation of the Santa Barbara/ Channel Islands National Marine
Sanctuary was announced, as was the first $2500 reward under the Marine
Mammal Protection Act for summoning the Coast Guard to arrest a dolphin
killer.

In “Animal Cancer Tests Under Scrutiny” Dr. Bruce Ames’ analysis of the
major causes of cancer and birth defects was summarized and the need for
further development and use of short-term non-animal tests underlined.

An owner and trainer who deliberately “sored” a Tennessee Walking
Horse with chains and other painful devices were fined $1350.

How to Save the World, the popular paperback version of A World
Conservation Strategy, prepared by the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature, and The Global 2000 Summary Report were
summarized.

Books reviewed: Rabies and Wildlife: A Biologist’s Perspective by David
W. Macdonald was reviewed by Victor Scheffer and The Wildlife Stories of
Faith McNulty was reviewed by Christine Stevens. Announcements: Outlaw
Whalers report by Greenpeace; Callings, Paul Winter’s record of animal

10

 

 




 

voices with music.

Vol. 30, No. 1 “Britain—factory framing comes under scrutiny” by British
journalist Nicola Tyrer describes how scientific studies have caught up with the
original recommendations of the Brambell Parliamentary Inquiry of 1965
concerning housing of veal calves and swine. Professor Ingvar Ekesbo in
Sweden and Professor John Webster in England have completed studies which
demonstrate that sows and calves who are allowed freedom of movement and
straw bedding are far healthier than their tethered counterparts in narrow,
bare, slatted stalls and that their maintenance is more economically sound in
the more natural surroundings. Ekesbo is the swine expert; Webster, the
expert on veal calves.

“The hog-farming Secretary lets his sows roam free” gives an excerpt from
an article in Hog Farm Management on Secretary of Agriculture John
Blocks’ praiseworthy policy of putting pregnant sows in timber pasture
beginning June 15. and allowing them to give birth without the severe
«restrictions of indoor farrowing crates.

One of the hearings in the U.K.’s Parliamentary Enquiry into intensive
systemswas reported on first-hand.

South Africa has passed a law prohibiting killing, capture or harassment of
whales. Dolphins are already protected.

HORSE, a rest home for old horses in Greece was founded by T. G.
'Antikatzides, DVM, AWI International Committee member in Greece.

Animal Factories by Jim Mason and Peter Singer was reviewed by Ruth
Harrison, author of the ground-breaking Animal Machines.

Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on Animals by Dallas Pratt, MD. was
reviewed by Philip Noguchi, MD.

Skeezer, Dog with a Mission was televised by NBC, showing the mongrel’s
affectionate care of disturbed children at the University of Michigan’s
Children’s Psychiatric Hospital. The book was inspired by an AWI
Information Report article.

Heavy mortality of imported primates in quarantine was documented by the
International Primate Protection League through records maintained by the
Center for Disease Control, Atlanta, Georgia. Virologist Dr. S. Kalter states
that animal dealers’ holding stations “act as primary source of infection for all
arriving animals.”

Vol. 30, No. 2 Whale articles included one on jojoba, the plant substitute
for sperm whale oil; a personal encounter with free-swimming humpback
whales; successful treatment of a stranded sperm whale on Coney Island; a
French scientist’s analysis of why a moratorium on commercial whaling is
necessary; and Denmark’s support for this moratorium as expressed by her
Ambassador to the United States. _

Other wildlife stories included the destruction of hundreds of thousands of

> sea birds and thousands of Dall porpoises in 9-mile~long Japanese gill nets set
for salmon; destruction of migratory song birds through logging of Latin
American forests where “our” birds winter; law suits in behalf of twelve grizzly
bears and the palila, an endangered Hawaiian bird; lead shot poisoning of wild

11

 

 




 

 

geese; poaching of elephants and smuggling of their ivory; elephant killing by
American missionaries in Sierra Leone; cruel killing of kangaroos; and three
“sting” operations by the US. Fish and Wildlife Service against alleged killers of
protected sea otters, sea lion and seals for their pelts, and walrus for their ivory.
Domestic animal reports include: Dr. Bernhard Grzimek’s condemnation of
factory farming excerpted from his recent book, “From Grizzly Bear to
Cobra,” and a report on research at Cambridge University and the University '
of Edinburgh on the demonstrated preferences of pigs; dog fighting penalties
exacted in California and attempts to make this vicious “sport” a felony in

Georgia; and funding of research to develop non-animal substitutes for the
painful Draize eye-irritation test.

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES MADE
BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

International Whaling Commission, Brighton, England, July 21-25, 1980.

American Society of Animal Science annual meeting, Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York, July, 27-28, 1980.

Worldwide Furbearers Conference, University of Maryland at Frostburg,
August 48, 1980, Christine Stevens presented a paper for Dr. John Beary
entitled “Replacement of the Steel Jaw Leghold Trap for Humane Reasons.”

Frances Lipscomb and Cathy Liss attended; distributed 150 copies ,of Facts
About Furs.

1979 Schweitzer Medal presentation to Shri H.M. Patel, Chairman of the
Indian Board of Wildlife, by Hon. Archer K. Blood, Charge’d’Affaires, US.
Embassy, New Delhi, India, August 4, 1980.

International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies annual meeting,
Louisville, Kentucky, September 24-27, 1980.

International Union for the Conservation of Nature, Survival Service
Commission, Gainesville, Florida, September 30-October 4, 1980.

National Association of Biology Teachers Convention, New York, New
York, October 22—25, 1980. AWI booth exhibit. Bianca and John Beary

attended. John Beary conducted a workshop on Humane Biology Projects.
Distributed 473 HBP.

World Wildlife Fund Global Connection Conference, Washington, DC,
October 28-30, 1980.

Animal Air Transport Association, San Diego, California, November 10,
1980. Frances Lipscomb presented a paper for Christine Stevens entitled
“Statement on Humane Problems in the Transportation of Animals,
Intergovernmental and Educational Committee.”

12

 




 

 

 

 

U.S. Animal Health Association, Animal Welfare Committee annual
meeting, Louisville, Kentucky, November 4, 1980. Diane Halverson
presented a paper on “The Need for Farm Animal Welfare Research.”

Minnesota Pork Conference, Bloomington, Minnesota, January 23, 1981.

1980 Schweitzer Medal to Roger and Katharine Payne, by Senator Paul
Tsongas, Washington, DC, February 5, 1981.

University of Minnesota, College of Agriculture Interdisciplinary Seminar,
Minneapolis/ St. Paul, Minnesota, February 9, 1981. Diane Halverson
presented a paper on “Concerns for the Welfare of Livestock and Poultry—
On the Farm, During Transportation and Slaughter.”

National Institutes of Health Alternatives Symposium,.“Trends in Bioassay
Methodology, In Viuo, In Vitro and Mathematical Approaches,”
Washington, DC, February 18-20, 1981. Christine Stevens was a panellist
on “In uiuo Approaches.”

Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, New Delhi, India,
February 25-March 6, 1981. Frances Lipscomb attended; distributed 200
copies of The Bird Business to delegates.

National Science Teachers Association, New York, New York, April 3-6,
1981. AWI booth exhibit.

National Frame Builders Association annual meeting, St. Louis, Missouri,
April 14, 1981. Diane Halverson presented a paper on “Welfare Concerns for
the On-Farm Management of Livestock and Poultry.”

Anti-Cruelty Society Conference, Chicago, Illinois, May 1-3, 1981.- Diane
Halverson participated in a panel discussion on “Farm Animal Welfare.”

Martita Goshen presented a program of dances about the lives and deaths of
whales, wolves, and seals. New York, New York, May 18-20, 1981.

Midwest Plan Service annual meeting, Breezy Point, Minnesota, May 21,
1981. Diane Halverson gave a paper on “AWI Concerns for the Welfare of
Cattle and Swine and the Need for Alternative Housing Designs.”

Livestock Conservation Institute annual meeting, St. Louis, MiSsouri, May
28, 1981.

Animal Behavior Society annual meeting, Knoxville, Tennessee, June 22-26,
1981. AWI booth exhibit.

Canada, US. Environmental Council, Washington, DC, May 21, 1981.
Christine Stevens spoke on “International Whale Policies.”

Project Monitor, Washington, DC. attended weekly meetings.

13

 

 




 

AWI STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1981

 

Salaries (includes consultant fees)

Payroll taxes

Temporary help

Newspaper ads against commercial whaling

Information reports

“Facts About F urs”

“Bird Business”

“First Aid Care of Small Animals”

Annual reports

Other AWl Publications

Tee-shirts, bumper stickers, buttons, & posters

Research & writing

Grants

Conferences, meetings, & travel

Postage, mailing and addressing costs
(Except for informational reports)

Stationery, duplicating, & office supplies

Professional services

Memberships & subscriptions

Acquisition of books & other educationa
materials

Shweitzer Medal

Ad against use of steel jaw leghold trap

Miscellaneous

Total expenses before depreciation
Depreciation of fixtures and equipment

TOTAL EXPENSES

See notes to financial statements

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Progam Services Supporting Services
Public Management Total
Education Save The And Fund All

& Projects Whales Total General Raising Expenses
$ 69,525 $ 24,873 $ 94,398 $17,864 $ 4,803 $117,065
4,307 2,112 6,419 1,765 401 8,585
70 70 140 100 — 240
— 57,784 57,784 —— 22,391 80,175
17,084 5,892 22,976 2,453 350 25,779
5,518 — 5,518 — — 5,518
25,361 — 23,361 757 44 24,162
3000 —— 3000 —— — 3000

1,946 1,048 2,994 1081 219 4,294
4,786 6,049 10,835 53 1,552 12,440
-— 8,321 8,321 — 4,314 12,635
651 —— 651 -— —— 651
9,552 209 9,761 — —— 9,761
15,772 626 16,398 298 — 16,696
11,616 8,157 19,773 4,128 3,733 27,634
9,549 3,688 13,237 5,862 409 19,408
855 —-— 855 4,125 —— 4,980
5,267 2,809 8,076 110 —— 8,186
6,947 478 7,425 60 — 8,186
3,743 — 3,743 — — 3,743
350 —— 350 — — 350
1,182 146 1,328 774 174 2,172
195,081 122,262 317,343 39,330 38,290 394,963
197 — 197 65 65 327
$195,278 $122,262 $317,540 $39,395 $38,355 $395,290

 

 

 

 

 

14

 




 

6&1

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Officers and Directors
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
John Beary, M.D., Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Leon Bernstein, Ph.D., M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P., Consultant in
Physiology

Maria Gulino, Administrative
Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research
Associate

Lynne Hutchinson, Whale
Campaign Secretary

International Committee

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.——Greece

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.D.,
B.Sc., M.I. Biol—United Kingdom

Angela King—United Kingdom

David Ricardo—~Canada

N. E. Wernberg——Denmark

Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Madeleine Bemelmans
Dr. Gerard Bertrand
Christabel Gough
David O. Hill

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Aileen Train

Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant
Lisa Melvin, Administrative
Assistant
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife
Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant
Treasurer
Cynthia Stokes, Publications
Secretary

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully
accepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the
Institute’s much-needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the
Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals.
Please remember the Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest:
Igiue to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of ............ dollars
(or if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 




 

THIRTY-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

1 July 1981 to 30 June 1982

 

 




 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

The past year has been an eventful one in the struggle to prevent needless
cruelty and suffering in scientific institutions, and AWI has been active in pro-
viding and diSseminating information. At the Congressional hearings 13 and
14 October, 1981, AWI’s president testified on behalf of the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation, submitting a full copy of the 210-page report
suppressed in 1966 by the National Institutes of Health because it showed so
many abuses of experimental animals in NIH—funded institutions. The report
embraced an extensive summary of laboratory inspections made throughout
the United States by AWI representatives over a period of years.

An important witness at the hearings was Alex Pacheco who had worked at
the Institute for Behavioral Research and photographed conditions there,
subsequently presenting them to the Montgomery County Police Department
as evidence of violation of the Maryland Anti-Cruelty law. The police also
photographed the laboratory and seized the 17 monkeys there. The case
focused attention on the need for better legislation and better enforcement of
existing law to maintain decent standards in the treatment of animals used for
scientific purposes.

Noting the failure of the US. Department of Agriculture to enforce the
Animal Welfare Act in this case, AWI prepared three panels of the photo—
graphs, mounted with relevant extracts from the Animal Welfare Act and
regulations to show numerous alleged violations of federal law by the Institute
for Behavioral Research. This presentation was shown to USDA. officials,
members of Congress and others in an effort to improve enforcement of the
law. Photographs labelled by AWI were used at a national meeting of
U.S.D.A. regulatory veterinarians to inform field inspectors and supervisors,
but no action was taken by USDA.

The State of Maryland brought cruelty charges against the Director of the
Laboratory, Dr. Edward Taub, and his assistant. After two weeks of hearings
Dr. Taub was found guilty of six counts of cruelty, specifically of failing to pro-
vide needed veterinary care to six of the monkeys.

AWI provided funds to pay air travel for some of the expert witnesses at the
trial who testified to the sorry condition of the monkeys and their urgent need
for veterinary and other care. Dr. Taub appealed the case before a jury who
were told by his lawyer, “You’re going to determine the future of medical
research in the United States.” He claimed two of the photos taken by the
Police Department showed the monkeys’ cages “gleaming and clean as they

 

Cover Photo

Mikhail Baryshnikov wearing AWI Save the Whales T-shirt to broadcast
public service announcements.




 

is

Macaque bound to metal bars for experiments at the Institute for Behavioral Research.
Note filthy bandage on bleeding arm.

can be.” As for the floor, said Dr. Taub’s lawyer, “You could almost eat sup-
per off that floor.” In fact, however, the cages were so ingrained with filth that
even after the monkeys had been sent by court order to be kept by the
National Institutes of Health, and IBR had instituted a much needed steam-
cleaning in an attempt to meet sanitary standards, humane inspectors were
able to scrape feces off the cages.

SCHWEITZER MEDAL TO DALLAS PRATT, M.D.

To Dr. Dallas Pratt, whose classic book “Alternatives to Pain in Experi-
ments on Animals” was published in 1980, the 1981 Albert Schweitzer Medal
was presented by Senator Mark Hatfield (R. Oregon), the outstandingly
humane Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Dr. Pratt was
for many years Associate Psychiatrist at Columbia University and St. Luke’s
Hospital in New York and a Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association.
His book cites individual experiments on animals then matches them with
specific alternative methods. The reference list of 300 titles testifies to the
painstaking research involved to accomplish the task.

Not one to mince words about experiments which he considers scientifically
unsound, Dr. Pratt told AWl members and friends gathered in the Senate
Caucus Room for the ceremony, “. . .although pain is an exclusively indi-
vidual and virtually incommunicable experience, paradoxically it is the one
thing which sentient animals, including the human animal, have in common.
So the famous question which Jeremy Bentham asked about animals, which
was not, Can they reason? nor Can they talk? but Can they suffer? must be
answered ‘Yes—just as we do.’

 




 

“Which leads to the second question: How much should they be asked to
suffer? This might be answered, as it was many years ago by CW. Hume, in
this way: If animals are to be experimented on by man, then they should not
be forced to accept Suffering greater than man himself would accept.

“A corollary follows: If some experiments cannot be performed at all
without unrelieved pain and distress, then the humanitarian position is that
these should be abandoned. If this last suggestion were acted on, it would
eliminate a lot of scientific trash—like ‘learned helplessness’ and ‘pits of
despair’ experiments—and be a challenge to human ingenuity to find the
necessary alternatives.”

SAVE THE WHALES CAMPAIGN

Vigorous advertising by the Animal Welfare Institute both at home and
abroad was aimed at spurring the 39 member nations of the International
Whaling Commission to vote a cessation of commercial whaling.

Two large ads in The Asahi Shimbun, Tokyo’s biggest newspaper which
reaches more than six million readers, were taken- in conjunction with the
Cetuman Foundation. The second reprinted an article by Shizu which had
appeared in the 28 May issue of The Asahi Journal urging with incontro-
vertible logic why, from the Japanese point of view, whaling should end.
“The demand for a commercial whaling ban is based on a purely biological
view, which is aimed at avoiding the total extinction of the whale. There is
growing concern worldwide that unless countermeasures on a global scale are

\\

 

King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia of Spain accept sculptor John Perry’s fin
whale from AWI President.

 




 

Sperm Whales by Richard Ellis.(Prints are available from AWI.)

taken immediately, many of the whale species, already diminished in
numbers, will become totally extinct,” wrote Shizu.

To reach decision makers in other nations, ads were placed in Time inter—
national, The Economist and The Sunday Times. US. ads appeared in The
New York Times, The Los Angeles Times, The Denver Post, The Miami
Herald, Newsweek, The Los Angeles Examiner, Not Man Apart and Life
Magazine. Generous donations earmarked for the Save the Whales adver-
tising campaign pay for this important AWI activity in full.

Mikhail Baryshnikov, Artistic Director of the American Ballet Theatre,
taped a series of three television public service announcements as his per-
sonal contribution to AWI’s Save the Whales campaign. NBC/ NY generously
produced the spots under the direction of Randy Stiles. Jeff Richards also
contributed by making the arrangements for these highly successful
announcements which were distributed throughout the country by AWI after
NBC had run them on all their New York state stations. The great dancer’s
true sympathy for the whales came through powerfully as he spoke of their
graceful movements and tragic plight.

A letter indicating the position of each of the 39 nations whose votes deter-
mine the fate of the whales at the annual meeting of the International Whaling
Commission was sent to all AWI members and our many correspondents who
have expressed determination to fight the extinction of whales. Whale cam-
paign materials in quantity amounts have been distributed free on request to
whale activists throughout the year—posters, bumper stickers, T-shirts, peti-
tions and fliers.

Major progress was made at the 20—25 July, 1981, meeting of the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission at which AWI’s Fran Lipscomb played a signifi-
cant role in coordinating the efforts of conservation commissioners including

4

 




 

U.S. Deputy Commissioner Tom Garrett. Mr. Garrett headed the US. dele-
gation and impressed the Commission with his profound knowledge of
whales and whaling. His leadership made possible the 25—1 vote protecting
sperm whales.

Another major advance was the consensus decision by the IWC to end the
use of the “cold” harpoon which causes such prolonged pain to the small
minke whales on which it is used because whalers say too much meat would
be spoiled by an explosive harpoon which would kill far more quickly.

But these advances were destroyed by the objections filed by Japan and
the nations that sell whale meat to her. The IWC allows countries to “object”
to its decisions and then to do as they please. Japan objected both to the
sperm whaling ban and the cold harpoon ban. Iceland, Norway, Brazil and
Soviet Union objected to the latter.

In Norway, the government’s action has resulted in a suit filed 25 May,
1982, by the Norwegian Animal Protection Society against the Norwegian
Department of Fisheries under the provisions of Norway’s 1974 animal pro—
tection legislation. The Act prohibits infliction of unnecessary suffering on
mammals. The outcome is eagerly awaited.

ANIMALS ON FACTORY FARMS

During the year AWI Research Associate Diane Halverson has taken part in
meetings and symposia in seven states and played an active part in encourag-
ing adoption of more humane methods for the raising of veal calves. She has
been given desk space at the University of Minnesota to pursue her work for
farm-animal welfare in cooperation with interested staff in the School of
Veterinary Medicine Department of Animal Science and the Department of
Agricultural Engineering. At the end of this fiscal year she travelled to Britain,
Switzerland, West Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Norway to photograph
improved methods for the housing of pigs, laying hens, and veal calves which
give them the opportunity to express normal behavior and prevent the
gnashing of teeth, the sores and bruises, the aggression and stereotyped

‘ w

  

irww a
i h”

Laying hens try to get relief from cramped battery cages by craning their necks through
the bars—but they can never stretch their wings.

5




movements, abnormal sucking, licking, misdirected pecking and biting,
characteristic of life on a factory farm.

Universities in these and other countries have conducted research which
shows the importance of enabling animals to satisfy their behavioral needs.
By reporting on this work at meetings of farmers, industry, government, and
university researchers, AWI is seeking to reverse the direction of conventional
research which appears to be reaching a dead end in pressing for continu-
ously smaller and more barren quarters for food-animals while simultaneously
trying to reduce stockmanship and feed quality to ever lower levels. Present
goals reduce some costs but raise others, eg. drugs necessary to fight disease
in the unhealthy atmosphere of excessive confinement where fresh air, exer-
cise, and a comfortable resting place are seldom available to the animal
inmates.

 

Innocence betrayed. A veal calf outgrowing the narrow prison where he is confined
for life.

Veterinarian Beatrix Sommer, University of Munich graduate researcher,
whose documentary film of gestating sows demonstrating stereotyped
movements in their cramped stalls has shocked viewers, made a trip across
the United States to study hog-raising practices here and reported to AWI on
her findings.

TRAPPING

The Canadian Federal Provincial Committee on Humane Trapping
(FPCHT) issued a report this year on its seven-year study of traps. The
Report disapproves of the use of the cruel steel jaw leghold trap on land for
the large majority of species. Its recommendations, although lacking the force
of law, have had at least one practical result: the biggest trap manufacturer
announced that a new leg snare would be on sale for the 1982/83 trapping
season in Canada.

 

 

 




 

In British Columbia, promulgation of regulations based on the FPCHT
Report was planned for this winter’s trapping, thus eliminating use of a large
proportion of the steel jaw traps in the province.

Meanwhile, in New York State, Elmer Davies, inventor of the “Ezyonem”
cable-coated leg snare, which holds the animals it captures without cutting off
circulation and causing gangrene as does the steel jaw trap, announced that
his invention would be available to trappers in the United States by the end of
the year.

Michael J. Zagraniski, D.V.M., demonstrated the Ezyonem on his popular
television program, “Good News About Animals.” Dr. 2, as he is known to
his audience, has made a videotape of this excellent three-minute sequence
available to the Animal Welfare Institute for viewing by interested persons.

With emphasis on substitute methods, the campaign against the steel jaw
leghold trap is gaining strength worldwide. Over 60 nations have now banned
this cruel device.

 

PUBLICATIONS

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly was launched to take the place of
The Information Report. With 25 or 30 different items in each issue, including
two or three feature articles and a variety of short pieces, it covers the
expanding animal welfare and wildlife conservation fields in a more compre-
hensive manner than was possible for its 30-year—old predecessor. Readers
are invited to submit ideas, articles and photographs or drawings for possible
publication.

Whales Versus Whalers, published this year by AWI, brings together all the
articles on whales and whaling that have appeared in The Information
Report/AWI Quarterly since 1971. It tells a sorry tale of continued destruc-
tion of the great whales in defiance of common sense and such scientific evi-
dence as can be garnered concerning creatures so mysterious and wide-
ranging. The articles have not been changed with hindsight. Hence the flavor
of the battle for the whales at each stage of the Campaign is retained. (64 pp.
$3.00).

Announced in October, Ann Cottrell Free’s selections from the writings of
Albert Schweitzer, Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer, was in press at the
end of AWI’s fiscal year. The 81-page paperback is sponsored by AWI, The
Albert Schweitzer Fellowship, The Albert Schweitzer Center, and the
Humane Society of the United States.

7

(rt! fill.




A handbook on endangered species has been a major project throughout
the year. Greta Nilsson, who wrote Facts About Furs and The Bird Business
published by AWI in 1980 and 1981, is the principal author. Originally
intended to fill the place of the AWI manual Humane Biology Projects, the
handbook has grown to encyclopedic proportions, and includes not only a
historical analysis of nature’s retreat (the title of one of the sections) and a sub-
stantial projects section for teachers and students, but a never—before-
published comparative listing of species appearing in The Red Data Book of
the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, the Appendix I and II
lists of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, the
Endangered and Threatened lists of the US. Endangered Species Act, and
state laws. One chapter was written by Los Angeles City Attorney Barry
Groveman, who was responsible for the successful prosecution of Stanley
Masry resulting in the permanent seizure of an estimated million dollars’ worth
of carved ivory. Questions about the Act are answered by Michael Bean of
The Environmental Defense Fund whose expert knowledge of every clause of
the US. Endangered Species Act is said to have so unnerved industry
attorneys who opposed the recent reauthorization and wanted to use it to
weaken the Act that a number of them feared even to appear at the same
hearing with him before Congressional Committees. The Congress has
reauthorized the Act for three years with some strengthening and little
weakening.

Statistics on the distribution of AWI publications during the year follow.
4,908 copies of Comfortable Quarters were supplied to scientific institutions,
their architects and administrators with a view to improving the way in which
the animals are kept so their normal behavior is not frustrated. 249 copies of
Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals went out largely to
scientists concerned with learning about the treatment of animals. The English
version of Basic Care of Experimental Animals is now out of print, but 165
copies of the Spanish edition were distributed on request by laboratories with
Spanish—speaking personnel in animal rooms. 13,498 copies of the leaflet
showing the suffering caused by the steel jaw leghold trap were distributed
during the year, and 820 copies of Facts About Furs were provided to those
who wanted more complete information on this subject.

5,492 copies of First Aid and Care of Small Animals were distributed to
teachers and others interested in helping wildlife in distress. Humane Biology
Projects went to 282 teachers in secondary schools, and primary school
teachers and their pupils ordered 4,300 copies of “Kittens and Cats,” 2,165
copies of “You and Your Dog” and 140 copies of “Good Kind Lion.”

Other publications distributed during the year include 247 copies of Animal
Expressions, 2,641 copies of The Bird Business, 120 copies of Animals and
Their Legal Rights and approximately 10,000 reprints and leaflets. The Save
the Whales campaign sent out: 4,526 fliers, 11,536 bumper stickers, 5,884
posters, 4,526. petitions, 5,890 buttons, 1,352 T-shirts and 602 copies of

8

 

 

 




Vanishing Giants. 4146 copies of Richard Ellis’ silk-screen prints of hump—
back whales and sperm whales were distributed.

AWl QUARTERLIES

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 47,000 indi-
viduals and organizations including public libraries, deans of medical and
veterinary schools, teachers, scientists and AWI members. Among the sub—
jects covered during the year were:

VOL. 30 NO. 3.

Laboratory animals. The lead story concerned the Congressional hear—
ings on Use of Animals in Medical Research and Testing. AWI President
Christine Stevens was one of many testifiers who called for federal funding to
develop non-animal tests. The appalling treatment of monkeys at an NIH—
funded lab in Maryland (see main body of this report) was also highlighted.

Whaling. The on—the-whole encouraging results of the International Whal—
ing Commission meeting in Brighton, England, were examined in detail (see
main body of report). A separate article dealt with the Siberian adventures of
Sea Shepherd 11 whose audacious crew succeeded in photographing an illicit
Soviet operation: the conversion of gray whales (killed ostensibly for “native
use”) into fodder for mink.

Kangaroos. Readers were asked to write AWI about any kangaroo prod—
ucts they found offered for sale—~—-in the light of the revelation that kangaroo
meat masquerading as beef was being exported from Australia and that the
roos were often killed in a disgustingly brutal manner.

Factory farming. After hearing evidence from all sides an all-party com—
mittee of British MP5 on “poultry, pig and veal calf production” was sharply
critical of intensive practices and endorsed many of the proposals championed
by animal campaigners. One demand was for the phase-out of battery cages.
Another was for a taxation policy that encouraged humane methods.

Acid rain. Sulphur dioxide, pumped into the atmosphere by coal-fired
power stations, descends as acid rain and is killing fish and fish-eating animals
in many of our northeastern lakes. Canadian lakes are also being killed off by
US industry—causing diplomatic tensions. The US National Commission on
Air Quality has asked for a 40% cut in sulphur dioxide emissions by 1990.

Elephant ivory. Undercover investigations led to the seizure of 300 ivory
carvings, valued at $1 million, at the Stanley Masry Galleries in Los Angeles.
The collection violated California’s Endangered Species Act.

Bird warning. When man manipulates nature birds often provide the
most noticeable warning that all is not well. Los Angeles draws heavily upon
the streams that feed Lake Mono. As a result the steadily sinking lake is
becoming more saline—so much so that in the spring of 1981 the lake’s brine
shrimp failed to hatch, causing death from starvation to virtually all the baby
gulls in the area.

 

 

 




DDT. After taking heavy toll of American wildlife in the 19605, DDT was
banned in the US but is still permitted, even encouraged, in many developing
lands. Zimbabwe uses 1000 tons a year and as a result certain birds (notably
the fish eagle) seem headed for extinction. In Zimbabwe high levels of DDT
have also been found in human breast milk.

Guarding sheep. Are there more effective ways of protecting sheep than
with traps, guns and poisons (notoriously 1080)? Yes, with donkeys, says a
Maryland sheep farmer. With South American llamas, says a Wyoming
farmer. Alternatively try “aversion therapy.” California scientists have found
that dead sheep baited with lithium chloride puts coyotes off their taste for
mutton.

VOL. 30 NO. 4.

Endangered species. The fight to protect the Endangered Species Act
gained pride of place—with powerful supportive statements made by eminent
scientists at the Senate hearings being prominently featured. Congress’s
strengthening of two parallel laws, the Lacey Act and the Marine Mammal
Protection Act, was noted and applauded.

Laboratory animals. The trial and conviction of Edward Taub, director
of the infamous animal laboratory in Maryland (see previous Quarterly and
main body of this report) was covered in considerable detail.

A most moving and eloquent plea on behalf of “60 to 100 million animals
under experiment in the United States,” printed in full, was made by Dallas
Pratt on receiving the 1981 Schweitzer medal (see main body of report).

In Uppsala, Sweden, toxicologists and animal campaigners gathered to
debate the value of the LD50 test which “uses” millions of animals yearly. The
occasion was billed as a seminar but was more of a forthright attack. LD50, it
emerged, has no friends, even among the leading drug companies. Its life is
being prolonged by bureaucratic inertia,

Whaling. Objections were filed by the main whaling nations to recent deci—
sions of the IWC (see main body of report). In Spain a parliamentary motion
to end commercial whaling was carried by 16 votes to 10.

Slaughterhouses. Reporting a booming horsemeat trade in Canada—
which imports some 30,000 horses a year from the US—the Ontario
Humane Society found numerous horses being shipped with brutal disregard
for their welfare. USDA regulations cover slaughterhouse conditions but not
transport.

Monitor awards. Ten federal agents received Monitor Awards for Out-
standing Achievement in Wildlife Conservation. The enforcing of wildlife laws
is no desk job. Increasingly it relies on undercover agents who must play a
lone and perilous hand, knowing that if their cover is blown the treatment
they will receive from the Wildlife underworld will not be humane.

Bobcat. The American bobcat won another round in its fight for life when
the US District of Columbia court upheld a previous Court of Appeals’ ruling

10

 

 

 




 

that the government was in breach of CITES in permitting the export of
90,000 bobcat pelts.

VOL. 31 NO. 1.

Factory farming. An examination of life (or what passes for life) on the
factory farm was coupled with a close look at some alternative systems which
are both humane and profitable. Indeed the “alternative” farmer’s profit is
likely to be greater than that of the factory farmer. The latter, whether his agri-
business be pigs, poultry or veal calves, is a gambler who in seeking for ever-
greater returns crowds more and more animals into less and less space.

Animal rights. A ringing declaration in support of the rights of animals
was made by the eminent French writer, Marguerite Yourcenar, at the 1981
meeting in Paris of Oeuvre d’Assistance aux B'étes d ’Abattoir, France’s
leading organization seeking to reform factory farms and slaughterhouses.

Whaling. In the Japanese magazine Asahi Shimbun Science, Eiji
Fujiwara, Professor of Animal Behavior at Tsukuba University, Japan, casti-
gated his country’s whaling policy. “In my opinion commercial whaling
should be’ discontinued entirely for some time,” was his opening blast.
Weighty supporting argument followed. For a Japanese scientist to come out
so strongly against whaling is a rare and welcome event.

Communicative chimps. At the Ellensburg campus in Washington state
live five famous chimps who communicate with man in sign language. When
Christine Stevens visited these chimps they readily showed off their skills.
Washoe, the oldest and most renowned (she can use 260 different signs)
smartly polished off a gift of grapes and then promptly signed for more. Moja

took a Stevens drawing of a banana, added wings and signed it “bird”!
Kangaroos. Despite the furore over kangaroos (see Vol. 30 Nos. 2 and 3)

the Interior Department confirmed the lifting of a longstanding embargo on
the import of kangaroo products.

Bobcat. Two CITES members, The Gambia and Malaysia, objected to the
US proposal to delist the bobcat. A de—listing proposal must now be put to a
postal ballot of the parties. If the ballot fails (as is likely) the issue will be con-
sidered at the 1983 CITES meeting.

 

11

Hope Ryden




Iyuyll

. IVIJV -

 

Leopard. Despite evidence that the African leopard is still generally declin-
ing the Interior Department downlisted it from endangered to threatened, on
the grounds that by legitimizing sport-hunting the leopard’s survival prospects
would be enhanced. Conservation groups overwhelmingly opposed the
reclassification and its spurious rationale.

Seals. The European Parliament of the Common Market voted over-
whelmingly to ban the import of seal products. Canada has relied on western
Europe to take 70% of the pelts of harp and hooded seals killed in huge ,
numbers each spring.

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES MADE
BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES:

Action for Life Conference, Allentown, PA, July 2—5, 1981.

Center for Environmental Education Conference on Endangered Speci‘és Act, Airlie House,
Virginia, July 15—16, 1981.

International Whaling Commission, Brighton, England, July 20—25, 1981.

American Society of Animal Science Annual Meeting, Raleigh, NC, July 25—29, 1981.
Kansas Farm Bureau Annual Meeting for Young Farmers and Ranchers, Wichita, KS, August
11, 1981. Presentation by Diane Halverson.

Caribbean Conservation Association / International Union for the Conservation of Nature Annual
Meeting, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, August 27—30, 1981.

Livestock Conservation Institute Conference to Define Farm Animal Welfare Concerns, Des
Moines, IA, September 10, 1981.

International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies Annual Meeting, Albuquerque, NM,
September 13—16, 1981.

American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, New Orleans, LA, September 16— 18,
1981.

Symposium on LD50, Uppsala, Sweden, September 16—17, 1981.

Animal Rights Coalition Conference, Bloomington, IN, September 18—20, 1981. Presentation
by Diane Halverson.

U.S. Animal Health Association, Animal Welfare Committee Annual Meeting, St. Louis, MO,
October 11—16, 1981.

1981 Schweitzer Medal to Dallas Pratt, MD, Presentation by Senator Mark Hatfield, Washington,
DC, October 15, 1981.

National Association of Biology Teachers Convention, Las Vegas, NV, October 22 —25, 1981.
AWI booth exhibit.

US. Department of Agriculture Outlook on Agriculture Conference, Washington, DC,
November 2-5, 1981.

US. Strategy Conference on Biological Diversity, Washington, DC, November 16—18, 1981.
National Society for Medical Research Annual Meeting on “Adjunct Methods and Animal
Research,” Washington, DC. December 15, 1981.

American Society of Agricultural Engineers Winter Meeting, Chicago, IL, December 16—17,
1981. Christine Stevens presented a paper on “The Current Animal Welfare Issues in the United
States.”

American Association for the Advancement of Science Annual Meeting, Washington, DC,
January 3-8, 1982.

 

12

 




 

 

Roman L. Hruska Meat Animal Research Center, Clay Center, NB, January 12—13, 1982.
Presentation by Diane Halverson.

University of Nebraska Animal Care Committee Meeting, Lincoln, NB, January 14, 1982.
Minnesota Society of Agricultural Engineers, St. Paul, MN, January 21, 1982. Diane Halverson
participated in discussion and gave presentation.

Farm Animal Welfare Symposium, University of Illinois, Champaign—Urbana, IL, March 6, 1982.
American Society of Agricultural Engineers, Ames, IA, March 12, 1982. Diane Halverson spoke
on “Farm Animal Welfare Concerns.”

Minnesota Women for Agriculture, Agday 1982 Seminar, Minneapolis, MN, March 18, 1982.
Diane Halverson participated in the session on Animal Agriculture.

International Whaling Commission Special Meeting, Brighton, England, March 24—25, 1982.
Fran Lipscomb member of US. delegation.

National Capital Area Tissue Culture Association Meeting, Rockville, MD, March 31, 1982.
Public Affairs Broadcast Group’s American Voices, Maria Gulino taped two 30-second commen-
taries for radio on whales and trapping. Aired April 1982.

Animal Shelter Information Network, Vienna, VA, April 6, 1982. AWI Booth: educational
materials for teachers.

Livestock Conservation Institute 66th Annual Meeting, Louisville, KY, April 13—14, 1982.
Poultry Sales and Service Conference, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, April
13, 1982.

International Livestock Environment Symposium, Ames, IA, April 20—22, 1982.

Montclair State Conservation Club’s Earth Day, Montclair, NJ, April 26, 1982. Theda Kenyon
and Dorothy Cinquemani, Representatives.

New York Board of Education program of dance movements about whales, seals and wolves led
by Martita Goshen. Lincoln Center, New York, NY, May 5, 1982.

Symposium on Management of Food Producing Animals, Purdue University, West Lafayette,
IN, May 5-7, 1982.

New England Federation of Humane Societies Annual Meeting, Framingham, MA, May 19,
1982. Christine Stevens, panel presentation entitled, “Animals Should Never Suffer in High
School Classrooms or Science Fairs.”

Animal Welfare Seminars, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN, May 24, 1982. Lennart
Backstrom, DVM, Department of Veterinary Clinical Medicine, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL,
sponsored by AWI, led seminars entitled “Farm Animal Welfare in Sweden” and “Stress on Sows
When Their Environment is Substantially Altered from Gestation to Farrowing.”

Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council meeting with humane organizations to discuss creating
industry standards, Washington, DC, June 16, 1982.

Conference on Wild Horse and Burro Management and Legislation, HSUS, Washington, DC.
June 18, 1982.

CITES meeting with Secretary General Eugene LaPointe, US. Department of Interior,
Washington, DC, June 29, 1982.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC, attended weekly meetings.

International Whaling Commission Conference on Cetacean Reproduction, La Jolla, CA,
November 27-29, 1981.

Midwest Livestock Equipment Show, St. Paul, MN, December 2’, 1981.
Minnesota Turkey Research Conference, Roseville, MN, December 9, 1981.

Monitor Awards for Outstanding Achievement in Wildlife Conservation, Washington, DC,
December 12, 1981.

13




AW] Statement of Support, Revenue and Expenses

Public Support and Revenue
Public Support
Contributions—Individuals, members
and others

Total Public Support

Revenue

Memberships
Income on investments
Sale of publications, reprints

and films
Income from interest in partnership
Miscellaneous & gains on sale of

securities

Total Revenue
Total Support and Revenue

Expenses
Program services
Public education
Save The Whales
Total program services
Supporting services
Management and general
Fund raising
Total supporting services
Total Expenses
Excess (Deﬁciency) of Public Support
and Revenue Over Expenses
Fund Balances at Beginning of Year

Fund Balances at End of Year

 

Years Ended June 30, 1982 and 1981

_Unrestricted

$213,813
213,813

34,346
27,707

6,098
22,500

3,631
94,282
308,095

174,625

174,625

46,282
6,163
52,445
227,070

81,025
89,698

$170,723

1982

Restricted

$218,567
218,567

218,567

615
207,155

207,770

27,069
15,365

42,434
250,204

(31,637)
66,502

22%

Total 3

$432,380
432,380

34,346
27,707

6,098
22,500

3,631
94,282
226.262

175,240
2%

2%

73,351
21,528

94,879
£7,224

49,388
1_56,_2_09

$205,588

1981
Total

 

$315,989
315,989

29,837
18,845

6,448
18,750

372
74,252
_390,241

195,278
£62

317,540

39,395
38,355
ﬂ
395,290

(5,049)
161,249

$156,200




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, PhD.
Bennett Derby, MD.

F. Barbara Orlans, PhD.
Roger Payne, PhD.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, MD.

International Committee

T.G., Antikatzides, D.V.M. ——Greece
Angela King—United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru—Kenya

David Ricardo—Canada

Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

N.E. Wernberg—Denmark

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Maria Gulino, Administrative
Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Associate

Lynne Hutchinson, Whale
Campaign Secretary

Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

Cathy Liss, Administrative
Assistant

Directors

John ,Beary, MD.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel (30th
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Ofﬁcers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Felicity Luebke, Publications
Secretary

Nell Naughton, Mail Order
Secretary

Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant
Treasurer

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully
accepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the
Institute’s much-needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to
the Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect
animals. Please remember the Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest;

I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of ............ dollars
(or if other property, describe the property).

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

THIRTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

 

 

C hiclette ,

an endangered collared lemur.

Center for the Study of Primate
f Biology and History.

At left, she piggybacks with
Nanette, her niece, upon the neck
of Nadia, her sister (foster- mother)

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 July 1982 to 30 June 1983

 




 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

Senator Robert Dole’s (R,KS) bill 5.657, to amend the Federal Animal
Welfare Act to minimize animal pain and distress in laboratories and to en-
courage the use of substitute methods for testing and research, had attracted 20
Senate co-sponsors by the end of the fiscal year. Hearings were held in the
Senate Agriculture Committee, July 20, 1983. In the House of Representatives
several provisions of the bill introduced last year by Congressman Doug
Walgren (D,PA) were incorporated in the National Institutes of Health
authorization bill as approved by the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
Opposition by the Association of American Medical Colleges and the Associa-
tion for Biomedical Research, an organization founded by the world’s biggest
commercial dealer in laboratory animals, is placing a variety of obstacles in the
way of every proposal aimed at improving the lot of laboratory animals.
However, public demand for an end to unnecessary suffering has grown to a
point where action is required.

  

photo: HS US

A beagle used by the Shriner’s Burn Institute in Cincinnati. Note the dog’s crouched
position on the metal mesh cage floor. No attempt even to provide comfortable bed-
ding for the suffering animal was made.

Recognition within the scientific community of needless animal pain,
especially in some widespread testing methods, is growing too. The National
Research Council issued a press release February 9, 1983 stating, “It is neither
necessary nor feasible to use mammals for initial screening . . . Tests with
bacteria can be completed in a few days, and tests with mammalian cells in
culture require only a few weeks, the committee pointed out. Mouse tests are
not only much more expensive, but require several months. With some 70,000
man-made chemicals in commercial use, ‘it is important to have several rapid,
sensitive, inexpensive tests available,’ the committee concluded.”

The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association issued a release in October,
1982 on the LD50 test, long criticized for its huge consumption of animals and
for requiring half the test animals to die. PMA scientists agreed that routine use
of the test for large numbers of substances was not scientifically justifiable and
recommended limiting its use. The National Society for Medical Research con-
curred in a separate statement. However, government agencies, both here and
abroad, must be induced to scrutinize and change their outdated regulations so
that tests are no longer routinely conducted merely to conform to rules. It is

1




estimated that as many as 5 million animals and $25 million could be saved by
a rational revision of the LD50 regulations.

The Veterinary College of the University of California at Davis initiated a
course on animals and ethics for third year veterinary students. The first lectures
were given by Bernard Rollin, PhD. of the University of Colorado. A broad
range of subjects was discussed, and the May 25 session on laboratory animals
was shared by Joseph Spinelli, DVM and Christine Stevens.

During the course of the year numerous symposia on alternatives to
Laboratory animals were held and grants for research and development of such
alternatives were made to scientists by an unusual combination of anti-
vivisection organizations and cosmetic companies, all seeking to reduce animal
use, especially in painful tests. Dr. Gerhard Zbinden of the University of Zurich,
a leading critic of the LD5() test was the featured speaker at the Johns Hopkins
symposium on alternative approaches to acute toxicity testing May, 1983.

An assortment of scandals involving the use of laboratory animals arose dur-
ing the year. First to surface was the famous “mouse mix—up” for which Charles
River, the multimillion dollar multinational corporation that breeds, collects,
and sells more laboratory animals than any other such company, was responsi-
ble. An estimated thousand scientific projects were thrown off when Charles
River shipped out mice of mixed heritage under the label of an inbred strain
known as BALB/c. These animals suffered in vain. One affected scientist,
Brenda Kahan a cancer researcher at the University of Wisconsin,sued Charles
River in June 1983 and other lawsuits are expected to follow.

The US. Government took the top four directors of Industrial Bio—Test
Laboratories to court April 13, 1983 for “bungling” animal tests on cancer-
causing agents. The laboratory is one of the nation’s largest. A pathology pro-
fessor at Northwestern University School of Medicine, Joseph C. Calandra,
presided over the corporation where a former employee testified that mice
starved, died of thirst, drowned or escaped in a filthy area with a malfunction—
ing “automatic” watering system, called “the swamp” by staff who worked
there.

At Harvard University Medical School, Dr. John Roland Darsee was found
to have created scientific data out of thin air. Two graduate students observed
him placing the body of a dog in a plastic sack without making any observation
of the heart which he was, in theory, studying. Their report of the inexplicable
occurrence led to the discovery of his extensive fraud.

In the Veterans Administration Hospital associated with Stanford University
Medical School, a medical student found a dying dog wandering in the cor-
ridor. When the institution’s veterinarian declined to come to treat the dog, he
took it to a local veterinarian who was on emergency duty. The dog, suffering
from severely infected wounds and lack of food (only hair was found in its
stomach on autopsy) was euthanized. Continuing inquiries by local humane
organizations have failed to yield any satisfactory explanation for the dog’s
condition.

 




 

TRAPPING

The steel jaw leghold trap, which has been compared to crucifixion in the
degree of agony it can cause, is still used by most American trappers, but during
the course of this ﬁscal year, two new substitutes for use on long legged animals
began to be manufactured in the United States and Canada. The EZYONEM,
though not in mass production by June 30, was being made in modest
numbers, and a legsnare based on the invention of Milan Novak of Ontario’s
conservation department was being advertised in Canada by the giant trap
manufacturer, Woodstream. When tested against the commonly used fox traps
only 2% of foxes received serious injuries in the Novak legsnare as against
52% in the steel jaw traps.

The EZYONEM is so designed that circulation cannot be cut off to the cap—
tured limb, thus eliminating the possibility of gangrene which is regularly caused
by the tight grip of steel jaws even if the victim is released as soon as the trapper
finds it. The cable is coated heavily with plastic to prevent the wire from break-
ing the skin. Lighter to carry than a steel trap, it should be readily adopted by
trappers with a conscience.

 

A badger desperate to escape from the steel jaw trap has excavated this three foot trench in
fear and agony.




Those states which do not allow the use of snares should modify their laws or
regulations to exempt cable coated legsnares. The prohibitions against neck or
body snares should remain in force because these snares cause long drawn out
suffering; the animals’ bodies are encircled by wires which eat into their ﬂesh as
they struggle to escape. Eventually, the progressive tightening of the wire
strangles the animal.

This spring the Province of British Columbia followed the recommendations
of the Federal Provincial Committee on Humane Trapping by banning the steel
jaw leghold trap on land for approximately 50% of the animals trapped in that
Province. The Association for the Protection of Fur Bearing Animals, located in
Vancouver, B.C., has taken a leading role in informing the Canadian public of
the cruelties of the steel trap through trapline films shown on television.

;

  
   

r. I «as. as . .. _. i 4W. w .. .,
In fruitless struggles to escape the steel jaw trap this raccoon has en tangled the trap chain in a fence

 

'at'réﬁ

Congressman Clarence Long (D,MD) with more than 100 co-sponsors is
seeking enactment of his bill, HR. 1797 to end the use of the steel jaw leghold.
This is the fourth Congress in which Congressman Long has introduced a bill
for this purpose. For the first time Subcommitee Chairman Henry Waxman
(D,CA) to whose jurisdiction the bill has been referred, has become a co-
sponsor and has indicated that hearings will be scheduled.

In the State of New Jersey a bill to prohibit the use of the steel trap was passed
by the Assembly}

‘Final passage by legislature took place February, 1984.

 




 

 

 

Twelve years of unremitting effort came to a climax at the 1982 meeting of
the IWC when, for the first time ever, a clear three—quarters majority (25-7)
voted to end commercial whaling by 1986. This victory was not accepted
without strong opposition, however. Spain was the only whaling country that
voted for the cessation. Japan, the Soviet Union, Norway and Peru” filed for-
mal objections. Thus the campaign to save the whales has had to continue at
full strength throughout the year.

A second important victory for whales was won when the Icelandic Parlia-
ment, after a two-day debate, decided by a nail—biting 29—28 vote to honor the
IWC decision. The Icelandic Minister of Fisheries fought hard to obtain an ob—
jection but was defeated by the democratic process. The Icelandic press corps
in the United States was in touch with the Animal Welfare Institute throughout
the debate. AWI encouraged purchase of fish from Iceland rather than from the
objecting nations. Recognition of the sound and decent decision of this small
nation, whose economy depends so much on the sea, is deserved.

At the end of the fiscal year, the US. Government was taking a strong posi—
tion in respect to fish allocations within US. waters to Japan. 100,000 tons
was withheld pending action towards withdrawal of its objection. Nevertheless,
the Japanese remain obstinate.

AWI’s advertising campaign continued to expose the actions of the intran-
sigent whaling nations throughout the world. Generous support for this specific
purpose enabled AWI to place ads in Newsweek international, The Interna-
tional Herald Tribune and The Economist. In the United States, ads were taken
in five issues of USA Today, and in The Los Angeles Times, Chicago Tribune,
Life Magazine, Christian Science Monitor, Time, Wall Street Journal, The Los
Angeles Herald Examiner, Boston Globe, Daily Breeze, and The Daily Pilot.

AWI was one of the sponsors of the “Whales Alive” conference in Boston
and made possible publication of an illustrated summary of the proceedings.

In Japan, AWI contributed to the Save the Whales campaign of Cetuman
Zaidon which featured ads in Japanese magazines and newspapers including
Japan’s largest, The Asahi Shimbun.

At the IWC meeting in Brighton, England two AWI representatives worked
intensively to achieve the moratorium, a victory which hung in the balance until
the very last hours before the critical vote. This was the best year for whales
since whaling began.

‘Peru withdrew its objection to the commercial whaling ban at the 1983 IWC meeting.




 

 

 

FARM ANIMALS

In July and August of 1982, Diane Halverson, AWI’s Research Associate for
livestock and poultry, was sent to Europe to study the progress made there
toward more humane and economically sound animal husbandry methods.
She visited veterinarians, animal scientists and farmers, in universities in seven
countries involved in improving methods of rearing farm animals. Since then
Ms. Halverson has presented her observations to audiences of farmers,
agricultural scientists, Congressional staff, livestock industry representatives and
US. Department of Agriculture staff, urging advances in this country similar to
those made in Europe.

The most fascinating research to design humane housing observed in Europe
by AWI President Christine Stevens and Ms. Halverson was that of a Swiss
ethologist, Dr. Alex Stolba who designed an enriched pen system for hogs.
(See Quarterly Vol. 31,Nos.3 and 4 ) Dr. Stolba’s research and results were so
impressive that AWI sponsored his visit to the Conference on the Human-
Animal Bond in Bloomington,Minnesota in June 1983..

While at the Edinburgh School of Agriculture Dr. Stolba studied the activities
of domestic swine in a rich outdoor environment and, based on this study,
designed a housing system for hogs which is appropriate for the animals and
viable for the hog farmer. Dr. Stolba spoke to veterinarians, animal scientists,
agricultural journalists, animal welfare representatives and other interested per-
sons of his observations of free—living sows, piglets and boars. He described the
success of the enriched pen system he designed as an alternative to present-day
husbandry methods. Dr. Stolba also presented a revealing 16mm color film of
the behavior of the free-living domestic hogs he so carefully observed. One of
the conventional beliefs presented at this meeting is that tailbiting among grow-
ing pigs is an “act of aggression.” Dr. Stolba pointed out that if tailbiting were an
act of aggression, it would be preceded by threat postures and head
movements, but that these do not occur prior to tailbiting. He described
tailbiting as a response to a barren environment. Behavior which would be
oriented toward objects in a richer, more natural environment is directed
toward other pigs in the barren environments of many modern hog-houses. As
a result of his presentation, two people, including a veterinarian specializing in
swine medicine, have decided to set up an enriched pen system in the United
States and will travel to Europe to learn more about its operation.

During the year, AWI widely distributed on a loan basis the excellent British
Broadcasting Corporation film, “Down on the Factory Farm.” It was sent out
upon request to veterinarians, animal scientists, secondary school and universi—
ty students, animal welfare organizations, teachers and professors.

At the US. Animal Health Association (USAHA) annual meeting held in
November in Nashville, a resolution proposed by Animal Welfare Institute

6

 




    
    
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

representatives was passed by the full convention. It read “Be it resolved that
advances in farm animal welfare based on scientific studies and practical ap-
plication in the United States and abroad be further encouraged by the US.
Animal Health Association.”

In his scientifically designed pen, Dr.
Stolba enables the hogs to live as
families. Here a sow with her newborn
piglets and a daughter from her previous
litter commune in a pen bedded with
straw.

 

A pen bedded with
straw helps keep sows
; and piglets warm and
free from injury in the
Pig Family Pen.
Piglets can retreat

to an area warmed by

l

l behind protective rails
l

a heat lamp.

7




(Right) Pregnant sows in a
U.S. factory farm. Note
frothing at the mouth caused
by “empty chewing” a
stereotyped behavior the de—
prived animals use to try to
stem their frustrations.

 

In Dr. Stolba’s Pig Family
Pen sows and piglets can per-
form a behavior often observ-
ed in a natural environment:
rooting. Here they are using
a peat—filled box which
doubles as a source of iron for
the piglets. Space require—
ments for the Stolba system
are comparable to con ven—
tional systems.

Photo: Dr. Alex Stolba

 

 

 

 




 

PUBLICATIONS

The Endangered Species Handbook, long awaited by educators and conser-
vationists, was published in January 1983 and has been enthusiastically receiv-
ed. Its 245 pages are illustrated with 168 photographs and drawings. This ma-
jor work comprises sections on Dinosaurs and Dodos, Unlearned Lessons from
the Past, Abuse of the Land, Trade in Wild Animals, Overhunting and Persecu-
tion, Unintended Victims, International Legislation, State Endangered Species
Programs, People Who Make a Difference, and Projects.

Greta Nilsson who wrote Facts About Furs (1980) and The Bird Business
( 1981) for publication by AWI is the principal author of the handbook which in-
cludes contributions by James Buckley, former Assistant Secretary of State for
Security Assistance, Science and Technology, Michael Bean author of The
Evolution of National Wildlife Law (1977), and Barry Groveman Los Angeles
City Attorney who prosecuted the famous Masry ivory case.

A never before published side—by—side listing of species 1) on the appendices
of CITES, 2) in the IUCN Red Data Book, 3) on the US. Endangered and
Threatened Species lists and similar State lists, exemplifies the comprehensive
and scientific basis of the book. Artists’ views add a wider dimension with
Albrecht Du'rer’s famous rhinoceros, a Eugene Delacroix tiger, cranes by
Kasuo, a Dodo by Sir John Tenniel, a poem by David Day, “The Roc’s Egg”,
an illustrated description of dance classes in New York schools led by Martita
Goshen, choreographer of ballets about whales, sea turtles and wolves. The
Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation and the Ahimsa Foundation made grants
toward the cost of publication which are deeply appreciated by the Animal
Welfare Institute.

Publication of Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer by Ann Cottrell Free
was sponsored by four humane organizations including AWI. A profusely il-
lustrated 81-page selection of Schweitzer’s writings about animals and his
philosophy of Reverence for Life, it enables the reader to span Schweitzer’s
thought over his entire life time epitomized in his words, “We need a boundless
ethics which will include the animals also.”

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals by Jeff Diner was
reprinted June, 1983, thanks to a grant from Humane Information Services.
First published by AWI in 1979 it is an invaluable source of information on ex—
periments in a wide variety of disciplines which cause pain or distress to
laboratory animals. Quoting directly from scientific journals, it provides an
assessment not otherwise available. In his excellent book Alternatives to Pain in
Experiments on Animals, Dallas Pratt, M.D. gives generous credit to Diner’s
work. A sequel to Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals is in
preparation.

Publication of a revised edition of AWI’s Animals and Their Legal Rights is

9

ll
ll




planned as soon as the painstaking checking of changes in laws affecting pro-
tection of animals is completed. This will be the fourth edition of this unique
book which AWI makes available free on request by public libraries, humane
societies, and chiefs of police.

THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 30,000 in-
dividuals and organizations, including public libraries, deans of medical and
veterinary schools, teachers, scientists and AWI members. Among the sub-
jects covered during the year were:

 

SUMMER 1982 VOL. 31, NO. 3

Whaling. The Save-the-Whales campaign at last triumphed. The long
years of intensive efforts worldwide had finally paid off. Reporting this great
event the Quarterly said: “The most sweeping victory that any group of
animals has won internationally, it presages further inter-group efforts for
other animals in need of protection from cruelty and from the threat of extinc—
tion.”

Laboratory animals. A bill that would considerably reduce the pain in-
ﬂicted on lab animals and encourage the development of alternatives gained
House approval in August. The bill underwent lengthy scrutiny by both scien-
tific and animal welfare bodies and represents a surprisingly broad consensus
of opinion. It was given almost unanimous support by the Committee on
Science and Technology.

Meanwhile the Senate approved an amendment to the Supplemental Ap—
propriations Act of 1982 requiring the funding of government research into
non-animal alternatives to the notorious Draize test.

The Millenium Guild, based in New York, is offering $500,000 incentive
awards for any breakthrough in non—animal testing. In Canada a government—
funded body, briefed by the Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, has for the first time agreed to support development of non-animal
research. In Britain well known cosmetic and pharmaceutical companies have
donated to a new research program sponsored by the Fund for the Replace-
ment of Animals in Medical Experiments (FRAME).

10

 

 




 

 

Migratory birds. In Europe’s Mediterranean lands the hideously cruel and
indiscriminate slaughter of migratory birds in spring and fall has continued
despite an EEC Directive that the killing be stopped. Chief culprit is France
closely followed by Italy. The motive is not food nor even profit. It is — fun.
But this “fun” slays several hundred million birds every year and for many
species the toll is far more than they can stand.

Farm animals. Scientiﬁc Aspects of the Welfare of Food Animals is the ti-
tle of a substantial report put out by the prestigious Council for Agricultural
Science and Technology (CAST). Brian Klug, a university teacher of
philosophy, has scrutinized the report and declares that it “fundamentally
misconceives and deliberately misses the point.” The report asserts (without
supporting argument) that “the goal of maximum profitability pursued by
animal producers leads automatically to improved welfare.” And so it comes
about (very conveniently) that farm animals’ wellbeing is improved by
present-day intensive systems! '

Bears. Hundreds of California black bears have been killed by poachers
operating throughout the bear country of the western states, and the popula—
tion is clearly suffering. This shocking slaughter is spurred by Asian American
dealers in Los Angeles who find a rich and ready market for the bear’s paws,
claws and gall bladder in the Far East. A bill before the California state
legislature would make bear poaching a felony.

Antarctica. Save Antarctica, a new citizens’ organization with offices in
Washington, DC, Geneva and Sydney, is campaigning on conservation
issues in the Antarctic. Some “direct action” is planned for next summer
there.

Guarding sheep. From central Texas comes a report of an animal with a
“natural instinct for shepherding.” Put one or two Great Pyrenees dogs
among the ﬂock and the coyotes all go back to catching rabbits.

Endangered species. Congress gave the Endangered Species Act a fur-
ther three years’ lease of life. Such was the weight of scientific and popular
backing for the Act that the reauthorizing bills went through unopposed. Con-
servationists, though, were urged not to relax but to press for the restoration
of funds slashed from the budgets of the two agencies responsible for im-
plementing the Act.

FALL 1982 VOL. 31, NO. 3

LD50. Prominence was given to an important statement made by the
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association which represents 149 research—
based companies. Following lengthy study the Association conceded that
“advances in toxicity testing now make it possible to conduct most drug safety
evaluations without the LDSO test.” An 8—page paper accompanying this an-

11




nouncement stated that “the definitiveness of the result is more apparent than
real because of the inﬂuence of experimental variables . . . Just as meaningful
information can be obtained with fewer animals.” The next step is to see that
regulations here and abroad are brought into line. Or as the Association puts
it: “Regulatory requirements should accommodate this position.”

Whaling. Following the IWC vote to end commercial whaling, the great
question was: Would the whaling nations accept the decision? To sweeten the
pill the US offered Japan a favorable fish allocation if no objection were filed.
But to no avail. Japan objected. As did Norway, USSR and Peru. In fact the
first objection came from Peru. But it was widely understood that Peru, with
its whaling industry controlled by Japan, was acting under Japanese instruc—
tions.

A separate but linked item reported the findings of a Gallup poll in Japan.
46% of Japanese agreed with the IWC ban, 34% had never heard of it and
only 19% disagreed. A massive 76% said the ban should be accepted.

Norway’s use of the cold (non-explosive) harpoon contravenes a national
law which states: “Animals shall be treated well; their instincts and natural
behavior shall be taken into account so as not to risk unnecessary suffering.”
The Norwegian Animal Protection Society therefore is suing the government
on the grounds that “unnecessary suffering” is precisely what the cold har-
poon inﬂicts. Their case is much strengthened by the recent report of an of—
ficial “controller” aboard a Norwegian whaler. The average dying time for all
whales harpooned was a diabolical 27 minutes.

Porpoises and dolphins. 50,000 dolphins and porpoises are killed by
Turkish fishermen in the Black Sea every year. The scale of the slaughter and
the grisly facts behind it were uncovered by a conservation sleuth (a represen-
tative of the British group People’s Trust for Endangered Species) who gained
access to “confidential” data by posing as a researcher for a book on the
world’s fisheries. Not only is the slaughter cruel and needless but it has
brought the species concerned to the threshold of extinction. Hunters report
that their quarry is increasingly rare. All other Black Sea countries have long
since prohibited dolphin hunting —— precisely because the populations were
clearly unable to withstand it. Following an international furor Turkey agreed
to ban further hunting until population studies are completed.

In the Bering Sea off Alaska 960 female and infant Dal] porpoises had a
narrow escape from death at the hands of Japanese harpooners acting under
instructions from American scientists. This deliberate kill had been planned to
discover how many porpoises the Japanese should be allowed to kill acciden-
tally (“incidental catch”) while fishing for salmon. Alerted to this bizarre piece
of “scientific research” by an Oregon housewife, Senator Packwood acted
fast to save the animals. NOAA officials are now working out how to get the
data they need without killing more porpoises.

Farm animals. The yearly meeting of the Animal Welfare Committee of
the US Animal Health Association discussed inter alia intensive farming.

AWI’s Diane Halverson, just back from a fact-finding tour of Europe, showed
12

 

 




slides of Swiss, British and Swedish experiments into the keeping of laying
hens, veal calves and gestating sows. Always the animals were able to move
around freely and behave naturally.

Steel-jaw traps. In British Columbia, Canada, wolverines, martins,
fishers, weasels, skunks, squirrels and raccoons may no longer be caught in
steel-jaw leghold traps (see main body of report). And for other species
modifications have been introduced to lessen the degree of suffering caused
by these obnoxious devices.

Flamingos. Kenya’s pink flamingos which formerly thronged Lake
Nakuru two million at a time, and which then withdrew in a mass gesture of
protest when the lake became polluted, are returning. Today with pollution
under control there are some half million birds there. And this number is ex-
pected to rise. The “greatest bird show on earth” is back.

 

WINTER 1982/83. VOL. 31 NO. 4

Whaling. During his visit to the White House in January, Prime Minister
Nakasone of Japan was greeted by demonstrators calling on him to withdraw
Japan’s objection to the IWC whaling ban. The appeal was repeated nation-
wide by AWl in a full-page advertisement in USA Today. Readers were asked
to telephone their nearest Japanese consulate and convey, politely but firmly,
their feelings.

Compound 1080. Sheep farmers in the western states once relied heavily
on the notorious Compound 1080 to kill marauding coyotes. But with non-
target species also being poisoned, and with mounting doubts as to whether
the slow and agonizing deaths of erring predators brought any extra safety to
the farmers’ ﬂocks, the pesticide was banned in 1972. The sheep-farming lob-
by, though, continued to press for its reintroduction and formal hearings were
held in the summer of 1982. The weight of the scientific evidence was clearly
against any reintroduction but the “unhelpful” attitude of the federal agencies
concerned, in particular the EPA, has made the outcome worryingly uncer-
tain.

Gorillas and rhinos. Good news about two African animals. In Rwanda
conservation efforts have succeeded in halting the steep decline in the moun-
tain gorilla population. And the black rhino’s survival prospects look a shade
rosier now that the Yemen Arab Republic has banned the import of rhino
horn. The Republic was the world’s biggest importer — the horns being carv—
ed into highly prized (and priced) ceremonial dagger handles.

Dolphins. 1982 saw the American tuna ﬂeet kill nearly 23,000 dolphins,
the highest total since 1977 and exceeding the annual quota of 20,500.
Because of a district-court ruling that data collected by federal “observers”
aboard tuna vessels might not be used for law enforcement, offending skip-
pers could not be prosecuted. On top of this a US Court of Appeals then
ruled that observers have no right to be aboard the vessels at all. Which
13

 




means that dolphin mortality is likely to increase. For there is evidence that
boats with observers kill. fewer dolphins than those without. Conservationists
are fighting for a reversal of this ruling. Failing that they will press for a con—
sumer boycott of tuna.

Wolves. Radio collars were developed to help preserve threatened
wildlife. But in Alaska they are being put to quite another purpose. There
they are helping airborne hunters to track and kill the state’s dwindling
population of wolves. The excuse for this barbarous activity is that it will leave
more moosemeat for humans.

Wetlands. The nation’s wetlands are the home of millions of birds, beasts,
plants and fish. Already they are disappearing at the rate of 330,000 acres a
year — and but for a useful barrier in the form of Section 404 of the 1972
Clean Water Act, the rate would be doubled. With the Act up for reauthoriza-
tion and with prominent voices seeking to remove the “barrier,” a Committee
of Scientists for Wetlands Protection, representing over 1000 researchers
across the nation, was formed to fight for the retention of the Act un—
amended.

Song birds. At the request of Friends of the Earth (Cyprus) readers were
urged to write to Cypriot newspapers (addresses were given) or the island’s
President to protest the horrendous twice-yearly massacre of migratory song
birds by Cypriot hunters. Shooting, netting and liming are the three main
methods of slaughter there. The last two are illegal but almost no attempt is
made to enforce the law. And ludicrously the law allows nets and lime-sticks

to be imported, sold, manufactured and owned. It is only their use which is
prohibited.

An African Singing Bat has a face
reminiscent of a dog. One quarter of
all mammal species are bats and
there is enormous variety in their
facial forms, size and color.

 

Bats. In America bats are still persecuted and worldwide their caves con-
tinue to be destroyed. Bat Conservation International, born in 1981, is out to
change public and official attitudes. None of the nasty beliefs about bats are

true. Indeed they play a most valuable role as pollinating agents and voracious
eaters of insects — if they’re allowed to.

14

Photo: Merlin Turtle

 

 

 




 

 

SPRING 1983. VOL. 31 NO. 1

Whaling. With the biennial meeting of the CITES’ parties in mind (April
1983, Botswana), prominence was given to the views of eminent whale scien-
tist Sidney Holt. He argued powerfully for an immediate embargo on interna-
tional trade (via CITES Appendix I listing) in bottlenose and Bryde’s whales and
for a trade embargo in all [WC-regulated species as from 1 January 1986 when
commercial whaling officially ceases.

Greenpeace activists went to Peru and chained themselves to the harpoon
cannon of a Peruvian whaler. They said they would not leave voluntarily unless
Peru agreed to withdraw its objection to the IWC whaling ban. They were ar—
rested but, in their own words, “public response was mostly favorable and the
regional university called on the government to stop whaling. The daily
newspaper Correo proclaimed that ecological squadrons should be formed to
take up the cause of whales.”

Laboratory animals. A recent report by the National Research Council
stated: “There has been spectacular progress in developing short-term tests that
use microorganisms and mammalian cell cultures. These tests are sensitive, effi—
cient, reproducible and inexpensive.” These statements from such a prestigious
body make heartening reading to those who have been battling long and hard
for a big reduction in the number of live animals used for toxicity testing (see
main body of report).

Senator Dole introduced a new bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals Act, as an amendment to the Animal Welfare Act (see main body of
report). As well as establishing an information service at the National
Agricultural Library, the bill would provide for institutional committees, each of
which would include an outside member who would be “primarily responsible
for representing community concerns regarding the welfare of the animal
subjects.”

In 1982 net sales of Charles River laboratory animals amounted to
$40,925,000, up from $24,380,700 in 1978. Now exempted from sales tax
in its headquarters state of Massachusetts and with fat contracts from NIH,
business booms on the home front. And abroad the corporation breeds, pro—
motes and sells massive numbers of animals through its subsidiaries in Japan,
Germany, Italy, France and Britain. Charles River has taken over the biggest
importer of laboratory primates, Primate Imports, responsible for numerous
violations of the Animal Welfare Act. In December the corporation agreed
(without admitting or denying the charges) to a fine of $3500 for shipping
monkeys in substandard cages. They now operate under a cease-and-desist
order, a type of permanent injunction against future violations.

Welfare campaigners were irate when the 21-nation Council of Europe

15




removed the teeth from a new European convention to control research on liv-
ing animals. What had been hoped for was a common code so that tests in one
country would be accepted in another; drug companies would have saved
money and millions of animals would have been spared.The inﬂictionof severe
and enduring pain for “the solution of scientific problems,” was insisted on by
' Germany. A final_deci_sion on the wording of the convention has been put off.

Farm animals. An opinion poll in the Netherlands found 93% of Dutch
people holding respect for life to be the most important reason for considering
the welfare of livestock and poultry, and 96% objecting to the confining of veal
calves in small crates. In Germany the German Veterinary Society wrote to the
Minister of Food and Agriculture expressing deep disappointment at the Coun-
- cil of Europe’s timidity in proposing that battery cages be retained, and urging
that the minimum cage size be increased.

Brazil. Last year the Getty prize, awarded annually for outstanding ser-
vices to conservation, went to two Brazilians, one of whom, Maria Teresa
Padua, was the Director of National Parks. She resigned her post following a
government decision —— which she bitterly but unsuccessfully contested — to
violate the sanctity of Araguaia park by building a road through it. Brazil also
plans to build a huge dam on a tributary of the Amazon, flooding an area of
834 square miles. The use of toxic defoliants to speed the clearing of the
forest is being considered.

Livestock. US exports of livestock are all set to rise steeply. Japan will re-
main the principal market but Korea, Chile, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia
have been singled out as good potential customers for a greatly expanded
trade. For livestock, though, long sea journeys are very stressful and once
disembarked there can be no guarantee (far from it) that the animals will be
decently treated. In a deeply disturbing report The Truth About Live Sheep
Exports the miserable plight of animals traded in this manner comes over all
too clearly. The sheep under discussion are Australian but the moral is univer-
sal: no livestock should be shipped abroad.

Meetings Attended by AWI Representatives

International Whaling Commission, Brighton, England, July 18-24, 1982.

American Veterinary Medical Association annual meeting, Salt Lake City, July 19-24, 1982 . Dr.
Harry Rowsell distributed AWI’s Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals.

American Institute of Biological Sciences meeting, Pennsylvania State University, State College
PA, August 8-12, 1982. AWI booth exhibit.

Man in the Biosphere meeting on biological diversity, Washington, DC, August 9-13, 1982 .

Poultry Science Department meeting, Virginia Technical University, Blacksburg, VA, August 18,
1982 .

“Extinction” conference, National Zoo, Washington, DC, September 11—12, 1982.

7

16

 




International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies annual meeting, Hiltonhead, SC,
September 19-20, 1982.

Rock Creek Park Day, Washington, DC, September 25, 1982. AWI booth.

The status of trapping restriction in Canada, Toronto Humane Association, Toronto, Canada,
September 27—29, 1982.

American Association of Laboratory Animal Science meeting, Washington, DC, October 30,
1982. AWI’s Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals distributed at AALAS booth.

Minnesota Veterinary Medical Association, Roseville, MN, October 7, 1982. Diane Halverson
presented farm animal welfare concerns to Animal Welfare Task Force, showed “Down on the
Factory Farm.”

National Association of Biology Teachers convention, Detroit, MI, October 14-17, 1982. AWI
booth.

National Poultry Health and Condemnations Meeting sessions relating to animal welfare, Ocean
City, MD, October 19—20, 1982 . Sponsored by Del Marva Poultry Industry Inc. with Universities
of Delaware and Maryland.

US. Animal Health Association Animal Welfare Committee, Nashville, TN, November 9, 1982.
Diane Halverson presented slides illustrating farm animal welfare advances in seven countries.

Coalition of Pets’ Societies, Bethesda, MD, November 13, 1982. AWI material displayed.
National Society for Medical Research, Washington, DC, December 14, 1982.

Diane Halverson reported observations of European farm animal welfare to livestock industry
representatives and Congressional staff at the National Cattleman’s Association, Washington,
DC, January 13, 1982.

International Poultry Trade Show, Atlanta, Ga., January 28-29, 1983.

North American Wildlife Conference, Kansas City, KS, March 19, 1983. Christine Stevens ad-
dressed Wildlife Educators.

Virginia Federation of Humane Societies annual meeting, McLean, VA, April 9-10, 1983. AWI
booth.

University of Minnesota, “Agricultural Issues Forum,” St. Paul, MN, April 13, 1983.

Earth Week, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, April 20, 1983. AWI booth.
Department of Biology, St. Olaf College, Northfield, MN, April 20, 1983. Diane Halverson lec-
tured on farm animal welfare.

Veterinary Science Club, University of Maryland, April 20, 1983. Christine Stevens speech.
Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora biennial
meeting, Botswana, April 26-30, 1983.

Diane Halverson presented AWI’s concerns for farm animal welfare to Biology Department class,

“Alternatives in Agriculture,” St. Olaf College, Northfield, MN, May 3, 1983.

National Academy of Sciences hearing on National Institutes of Health Guide on the Care and

Use of Laboratory Animals, Washington, DC, May 17, 1983. Christine Stevens testified.

Department of Animal Science faculty and graduate students, University of Minnesota, St. Paul,

MN, May 23, 1983. Diane Halverson spoke on farm animal welfare.

School of Veterinary Medicine, University of California, Davis, CA, May 25, 1983. Christine
Stevens’ lecture

 

 

Monitor Awards for outstanding achievement in Wildlife Conservation, Washington, DC, June
1, 1983.

Whales Alive Meeting, Boston, MA, June 6-11, 1983.

State of Illinois Agricultural Youth Institute, Springfield, IL, June 7, 1983. Diane Halverson
discussed AWI’s concerns for farm animal welfare.

Conference of the Human-Animal Bond, Bloomington, MN, June 13—14, 1983.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC, attended weekly meetings.
17

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1983 AND 1982

Program Services Supporting Services Total Expenses

For The Years
Ended June 30,

Public
Education

Management
Save The And Fund

 

p—L
CD

Salaries
Payroll taxes
Medical insurance
Temporary help
Advertising
Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies
Printing
“Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals
Endangered Species Handbook
Annual reports
Other AWl publications
T—shirts, bumper stickers, buttons, & posters
Research & writing
Grants
Conferences, meetings, & travel
Postage, mailing and addressing costs
(Except for information reports)
Stationery, duplicating, & office supplies
Professional services
Membeships & subscriptions
Acquisition of books & other educational materials
Schweitzer Medal
Consultant fees
Miscellaneous
Total Expenses Before Depreciation
Depreciation of fixtures and equipment
TOTAL EXPENSES

”

And Projects

 

$ 56,810
5,407
2,471
1,014

19,005
4,616
9,158

40,377
4,939
3,796

277
4,205
18,061

18,498
8,724
191
8,329
3,311

4,000

_2_.329

215,515
291

$215,806

Whales

Total

General

 

$ 24,851
2,147
597

509
109,683
1,000

1,230
4,515

12,000
3,567

9,713
3,331
4,982

248

555

$ 81,661
7,554
3,068
1,523

109,683
20,005
4,616
9,158
40,377
4,939
5,026
4,515
277
16,205
21,628

28,211
12,055
191
13,311
3,559

4,000
2,881

 

178,928

394,443
291

 

$178,928

$394,734

 

 

$20,491
2,314
575
1,113

15,220
228

341
2,554
599

1,036

9,825
5,639
4,970
8

26

689

65,628
97
$65,725

Raising

1983

1982

 

$ 5,004
467

192

31
31,041

78

$107,156
10,335
3,835
2,667
140,724
35,225
4,844
9,158
40,718
7,493
6,749
5,211
277
16,205
22,664

38,128
18,144
5,161
13,319
3,585

4,000
3,648

 

39,175
97

499,246
485

 

$39,272

$499, 731

 

 

$100,746
9,571
1,900
2,508
123,731
27,713

6,266
3,197
18,635
21,521
232
17,800
20,886

39,250
25,740
11,179
16,104

4,400

4,035
18,040

3,494

476,949
326

$477,274

 




 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, DVM.—-—Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.V.M.—Greece
Angela King—United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru—Kenya

David Ricardo—Canada
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile
Hon. Fumihiko Togo—Japan

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia Bank, Administrative
Assistant

Felicity Luebke, Publications
Secretary

Diane Halverson, Research Associate

for Livestock and Poultry
Lynne Hutchison, Whale
Campaign Secretary
Fran Lipscomb, Executive
Assistant

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Cathy Liss, Research
Associate

Nell Naughton, Mail Order
Secretary

Greta Nilsson, Wildlife
Consultant

Lynda Power, Administrative
Assistant

Susan K. Rehr, Legal Editor

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant
Treasurer

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully ac-
cepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the
Institute’s much—needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to
the Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect
animals. Please remember the Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest.
I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of ............. dollars
(or if other property, describe the property).

 




 

 

 

Dogs retri

I
r
m.
nA
I
6
00
C»
.IV
0
Cu
0
01
n
u
«a
I
6
00
.v

their owners from
Mayo Institute

eved by

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
THIRTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT

 

 

 

 




 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

The national focus on laboratory animals intensified as support for more
humane treatment and reduction of animal numbers developed simultaneously
in different quarters. A National Research Council report recommended alter-
native testing methods, stating: “There has been spectacular progress in develop-
ing short term tests that use microorganisms and mammalian cell cultures. These
tests are sensitive, efficient, reproducible and inexpensive.” (February 1983)

0 Senator Robert Dole (R, KS) held full Agriculture Committee hearings on
his bill, “Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals.” (July 1983)

0 The National Institutes of Health (NIH) held a symposium on “Imperatives
in Research Animal Use: Scientific Needs and Animal Welfare.” (April 1984)

0 The University of Cincinnati held a conference called “Humane Care of
Animals.” (April 1984)

O The National Coalition for Science and Technology sponsored a workshop,
“The Use of Animals in Research and Testing.” (May 1984)

0 The Scientists Center for Animal Welfare held workshops: “Animals and
the Scientist: Institutional Responsibilities; How to Run Effective Animal Care
and Use Committees.” (May 1984)

AWI Scientific Committee member Bennett Derby, M.D., testified for the Dole
bill at the Senate Agriculture Committee hearings, and Christine Stevens, presi-
dent, took part in a panel at the NIH symposium, citing US. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) inspection reports on specific institutions and showing large,
full-color slides of mistreated animals in laboratories. She also spoke at the Cin-
cinnati conference.

AWI special report. Working under a grant from the AHIMSA Founda-
tion, Louise Wright, AWI research assistant, requested under the Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) information on scientific institutions throughout the na-
tion from USDA Veterinary Services and from NIH. These include the com-
ments of Agriculture’s Veterinary Inspectors, who are often obliged to return
repeatedly in order to gain compliance with the minimum standards of the Animal
Welfare Act. Statements of Assurance of grants from NIH to conduct experiments
on animals are also subject to FOIA requests, and these augment the data col-
lated in AWI’s files. This AWI project represents the first comprehensive study
undertaken on a national scale to document the extent of neglect and abuse
in animal-using laboratories.

Cathy Liss, AWI research associate, made site visits to some institutions to
augment the observations of government agencies and attended the annual
meeting of the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS)
in Houston, Texas, where copies of the AWI manual Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory Animals were made available free of charge.

AWI site visits. AWI site visits included the Mayo Institute, where 13 own—
ed dogs were found and reclaimed by their rightful owners, many of whom

1

 

 




 

 

 

were interviewed by Ms. Liss. It is a story of distraught pet owners vainly sear—
ching for dogs gone mysteriously missing—till finally tracked down in wretched
shape—starved, dehydrated, assaulted—at the Mayo Institute which houses
some 500 dogs. Even then the owners were subjected to harassment by Mayo’s
staff. And these were the “lucky” owners. Mayo had received these stolen dogs
within the past 21 days and, therefore, in accordance with company policy, had
not yet used them in research. Over the previous three years, Mayo had
reportedly used a total of 6,000 dogs for experimental purposes. The Institute
says it no longer purchases dogs at the door from individuals, “but we continue
to take them as gifts.” One dog lost 40 pounds. Owners reported:

Rex: “He was starved, and when I got him home, I started giving him water,
and I thought he was going to kill himself drinking water. . . He’d drink and then
he’d turn and walk around a little bit, and then he’d go right back to drink. . .”
A Mayo employee “questioned us because they weren’t sure it was our dog.
Then we took Rex’s picture out. When he saw that, he couldn’t say much more,
you know. . .There was a guy that kind of rubbed up on my shoulder, and
he said,‘Are you going to write me a check?” Rex never fully recovered from
his ordeal and finally died.

Smokey: “We took him to the vet, who said he had 105 temperature, his
lungs were congested, and he had a cough. She sent me home with a bunch
of antibiotics. He was very, verydehydrated. He drank a 5—quart pail of water
and half of another one, just non-stop.”

Such is the “conditioning” of dogs practiced by the Mayo Institute.

credit: Alex Pacheco

One of the monkeys used in Dr. Taub’s
laboratory.

 

Followup on the Taub case. Following an extended public hearing, NIH
confirmed its decision to withhold the grant applied for by Dr. Edward Taub
of the Institute of Biomedical Research. The sufferings of the Taub monkeys
were the subject of a series of trials, beginning with a conviction for cruelty to
animals under Maryland law and concluding with a reversal by the Court of
Appeals on the theory that federal law superseded state law. Funding, however,

 




 

 

was stopped despite a concentrated effort by neuroscientists to have the NIH
grants continue. Taub did receive a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1983, and he
continued to fight animal welfare concerns, even to the point of calling upon
members of the American Psychological Association at their annual convention
to urge Congress to vote against the bill that would strengthen the Animal Welfare
Act, an obvious reference to the Dole bill. -

A companion bill to the Dole bill was introduced in the House of Represen—
tatives May 24, 1984, by Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. (D, CA).

 

WHALES AND OTHER MARINE MAMMALS
On 18 July 1983, the US. Senate resolved that “the Secretary of State and

the Secretary of Commerce are urged to continue to use all diplomatic and legal
means to achieve worldwide compliance with the International Whaling Com—
mission moratorium decision, including use of the Pelly amendment to the
Fishermen’s Protective Act, the Packwood—Magnuson amendment to the
Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act, and all other appropriate
legal tools.”

A front—page story in the Fall 1983 issue of “The Animal Welfare Institute
Quarterly” warned “Whales not safe yet”—a prediction which has proved only
too true. Despite the overwhelming vote by International Whaling Commission
(IWC) nations for a moratorium on commercial whaling to begin at the end of
1985, the campaign continues because Japan, the Soviet Union, and Norway
maintain their objections to the 25-7 vote.

Thor Heyerdahl, the famous Norwegian seafarer and author, joined with the
Norwegian Animal Welfare Society in protesting the barbaric “cold harpoon”
used by his country’s whalers against the small minke whales. The Society is
suing under the provisions of the national anti—cruelty law to bring an end to
the protracted agony caused by the primitive weapon.

In Turkey, a victory was achieved for the protection of Black Sea dolphins
formerly killed for chicken feed and watch oil. Worldwide protest based on revela-
tion of the massive but little—known slaughter brought about a government deci—
sion to suspend it pending scientific study of the dolphin population.

In the United States, dolphins benefitted by a US. Court of Appeals deci—
sion upholding the Marine Mammal Protection Act authority to put federal
observers on tuna purse seiners. The tuna industry wants no observers aboard
to see whether they are observing dolphin-saving regulations or to check on
the numbers of dolphins killed or injured in the giant purse seines. The industry
petitioned the Supreme Court to review the lower court decision, but the
Supreme Court declined. U.S. observers can use their findings to enforce the
Marine Mammal Protection Act. The Act has brought about a huge reduction
in numbers of dolphins killed—from as many as'300,000 in a single year down

3

 

 




 

 

to about 20,000—but there is a great need to develop the aggregating devices
for tuna fishing which could replace the method now used by the purse seine
fleet: rounding up the dolphin herds that swim with schools of tuna, forcing
them into the 1/2-mile long seine from which they can only escape by leaping
over the corkline which forms a marine fence. Infants and pregnant females
are sometimes stressed to the point of death in the round-up by the noisy
motorboats.

Another grave danger for the mammals of the sea is entanglement in gill nets,
some of which stretch as far as 16 miles. Monofilament nets are often discarded
at sea and continue “ghost-fishing” for years, since they are not biodegradable.
In 1982, 25 monk seal pups survived to weaning on the tiny Hawaiian island
of Lisianski whose beach is littered with fishermen’s debris jettisoned at sea. Four
of these pups became entangled in netting while the muzzle of a fifth got trap-
ped in a plastic ring. Fortunately, field personnel were on hand to free them.
Entanglements of this kind are increasingly common and seldom end so happily.

It is estimated that Japanese and Soviet trawl fisheries in the Bering Sea
annually lose or throw overboard three million pounds of nets, lines, and other
debris from fishing.

TRAPPING AND POISONING

The State of New Jersey passed a law prohibiting sale, use, manufacture,
and possession of steel-jaw leghold traps, the strongest law on the subject in
the United States. It was a hard fight against the Wildlife Legislative Fund of
America and its allies which blocked the bill in the 1983 session, but couldn’t
stop it in 1984.

Commenting on the passage of the bill, Speaker of the Assembly Alan Kar-
cher called it “the most heavily lobbied bill in the history of the legislature.” He
added that “only 1 percent [of lobbying] gets as ugly as we’ve experienced from '
the trapping interests. Threats were openly made at meetings that anyone voting
for the trapping bills would be labeled for life, their careers would be in jeopardy
. . .This kind of nasty pressure only makes many legislators, including me, more
determined than ever to stand by our principles.” Senate President Carmen
Orechio and Assemblyman D. Bennett Mazur fought successfully for their bills,
which passed by huge margins: 26 to 6 in the Senate and 65 to 5 in the
Assembly.

In the US. Congress, Congressman Clarence Long’s bill to end the use of
the steel-jaw leghold trap attracted more than 100 co-sponsors.

In Minnesota, wolves were protected by the decision of US. District Court
Judge Miles W. Lord, who ruled against the US. Department of the Interior’s
regulations permitting “sport trapping” of wolves and sale of their fur. “An at-
tempt to ‘manage’ the wolf in this manner,” said Judge Lord, “is to treat the
wolf as a furbearer, and not as a threatened species whose value is determined
by its rightful place in nature. . .When Congress took cognizance of the fact
that thousands of species of plants and animals had disappeared in the past

4

 




 

 

 

i ' s

9 \- ' '1‘»
An unintended victim. Cat caught in steel jaw trap.

     

      

decades and undertook to curb that desecration, it declared that the wolf had
a value as an individual species in danger of extinction. . .An increased ‘war
on wolves’ in northern Minnesota will not be permitted under the law.”

Strychnine was banned from November 1984 by the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency to kill prairie dogs, rabbits, opossums, chipmunks, and mountain
beavers. Unfortunately, this agonizingly cruel poison can still be used on ground
squirrels, porcupines, rats, and some kinds of birds. The endangered black-footed
ferret is credited with bringing about the decision because it eats prairie dogs
and, thus, can die of secondary poisoning.

INTERNATIONAL ANIMAL PROTECTION

The Animal Welfare Institute is fortunate that during the year, Dr. Aline S.
de Aluja of Mexico and Ambassador Tabarak Husain of Bangladesh joined its
International Committee. Dr. de Aluja, who heads the Department of Pathology,
School of Veterinary Medicine, National University in Mexico City, is author
of papers and lectures on humane slaughter and transport and alternatives to
laboratory animals. She has worked actively for animal protective laws in her
country.

Ambassador Husain has served his country as a diplomat in many different
parts of the world and has been successful in protecting Bangladesh native
species.

Simon Muchiru of the Environmental Liaison Center, who has represented
Kenya on the AWl International Committee since 1982, wrote a series of two
outstanding articles published in The Standard (Nairobi) and excerpted in “The
AWI Quarterly” examining the problems facing Kenya’s national parks. With
a human population increasing annually by over 4% (the world’s highest growth
rate), the pressure is extreme. But Kenya’s parks do not make good land for
farming or settlement. On the other hand, left to the wild animals, the parks
will continue to attract tourists and the money they bring. At the same time,
the parks should be opened up to ordinary citizens for whom the present entry




fee is prohibitive. This, coupled with a new commitment to conservation by the
country’s leaders and a vigorous education drive at all levels, could do much
to make Kenyans more aware of their fabulous natural heritage and hence deter-
mined to preserve it. 7

Far to the south, in Botswana, the De Beers diamond company took the water
for their diamond mine that migrating wildebeest and other wild creatures needed
to survive. An ill—conceived scheme by the European Common Market to im-
port tens of thousands of tons of beef under a special agreement with the cattle
industry in Botswana worsened the situation when hundreds of miles of steel
fences were erected in a futile move against foot and mouth disease. The
migrating herds died of thirst by the thousands.

A letter dated 14 September described the situation as “horrible, almost beyond
belief.” Animals trying to drink at the reservoir were being chased in vehicles,
shot, stoned and beaten to death by the local people. Readers of “The Quarterly”
were urged to write to De Beers in South Africa, demanding that water be pro-
vided for the surviving animals.

The Animal Welfare Institute has been working with Bat Conservation Inter-
national, founded by Merlin Tuttle of the Milwaukee Public Museum, an out-
standing authority on the bats of the world. An excellent article by Dr. Tuttle
appeared in “The AWI Quarterly” Vol. 32, No. 4, alerting readers to pest con-
trol companies’ denigration of bats in order to make millions of dollars by ap—
plying dangerous and unnecessary chemical treatments to kill bats.

Rozol is an especially dangerous pesticide, and Dr. Tuttle tells of the three-
year-old poisoned in her bedroom because the attic‘ above it had been treated
with Rozol on a purely prophylactic basis. No bats lived in the attic! The Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency urged cancellation of Rozol against bats in 1980,
but pesticide lobbyists prevailed and two years later 20 states were permitting
its use.

And fear of bats, along with the means of destroying them, is now being ex-
ported to Third World countries, thus threatening the very survival of tropical
forests and other ecosystems which depend on bats as the main pollinators and
seed dispersers. They can be critical to reforestation of clear—cut areas.

The Fish and Wildlife Service’s (FWS) Division of Law Enforcement invited
those testifying at oversight hearings on the Lacey Act to visit the Port of New
York/ Newark to observe their work. AWI president Christine Stevens made a
comprehensive tour in February 1984, observing the huge container warehouses
where the truck-size containers are brought after their arrival at the ports. Often
smuggled are oriental medicines including rhino horn and tiger bone wine. These
illegal products of endangered species were found by Fish and Wildlife Service
agents in one of the containers which they ordered be opened on that very day.
Nearly $700,000 worth of rhino or tiger products were seized at the Port of
New York/ Newark in 1983.

Smuggling goes both ways across our borders. A shipment of American bob-
cat skins labeled as fox skins was stopped on its way out of the country. Illegal
skins are often shipped to Canada on their way to Japanese, German, Italian,

6

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

and French markets. FWS agents are hampered because they may not “im-
pede commerce” by asking what is in a “combined shipment” in a container.
The regulations do not allow them to require identification of furs or leather,
several varieties of which may be compressed into a single bale of fur. Although
bobcat skins “must” be tagged, they are found being sold in the New York fur
district without any tags. Bobcats are extinct in eleven states, and Iowa, Indiana,
and Ohio have placed them on their endangered species lists. The furs of the
bobcat, lynx, and river otter that are exported from the United States are ob-
tained by hunters using the cruel steel-jaw leghold trap.

Smuggled oriental medicines seized
by the US Fish and Wildlife Service.
Note tiger-bone wine.

 

The smuggling of endangered species is only part of the problem. There is
widespread mistreatment of animals legally imported into, or exported out of,
the United States. During the course of the visit, AWl’s president observed three
monkeys in an unheated Lufthansa warehouse at Kennedy Airport on a stormy
clay of penetrating cold and dampness, although Lufthansa has a heated area
specifically designated for keeping animals prior to their being loaded into the
planes. We asked when the flight for which the monkeys were destined would
depart, and although it was over three hours away, our requests to have the
monkeys moved from the bone-chilling warehouse were brushed off repeatedly.

The indifference to the welfare of primates in transit is demonstrated by the
fact that in one recent shipment at Kennedy Airport, more than half of the
monkeys were dead on arrival. The price of primates for medical research has
escalated enormously as a result of overexploitation for this purpose in the re-
cent past, but neither their high purchase price nor the fact that all primates
are protected by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
of Wild Fauna and Flora has succeeded in protecting them against such gross
negligence and unfeeling apathy.

7




KANGAROOS

AWl efforts to protect kangaroos continued on three continents during the
year. AWl’s research associate Cathy Liss appeared in the pouch of the 16—foot
kangaroo balloon demonstrating with twelve animal welfare groups in Lafayette
Park across from the White House 9 August 1983. The photograph appeared
nationwide and resulted in a torrent of mail to the White House urging the
reestablishment of the 1974 ban on kangaroo imports. The lifting in 1981 of
the US. ban on kangaroo imports had a devastating effect on Australia’s
kangaroos. Populations tumbled while the slaughter, much of it illegal, rose to
around six million animals a year. Congressman Robert Mrazek (D, NY) intro—
duced a bill to reimpose the ban, quoting former Minister for Trade and En-
vironment in Australia, James Cairns, as saying, “The truth is that we probably
won’t do anything to save the kangaroo until America does.”

In an article in “The AWl Quarterly” Vol. 32, No. 2, Dr. Peter Rawlinson,
Senior Lecturer in Zoology at Latrobe University in Australia, stated that Australia
has “no legitimate, legal, national kangaroo management program.” He pointed
out that the economic incentive to kill kangaroos is growing rapidly and that
the illegal trade is still ﬂourishing. He called for an end to “this inhumane and
destructive industry.” Dr. Rawlinson traveled to Washington in June to testify
at public hearings on the issue, recounted a shabby history of commercial in-
trigue, withholding of data, and uncontrolled killing. He argued forcibly against

 

credit: Associated Press

Kangaroo balloon leads protest march to the
Australian Embassy.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

proposals (instigated by the Australian government) that the “temporary” lifting
of the ban on kangaroo imports should be made permanent and that the three
main species of Australian kangaroos should accordingly be removed from the
US. Threatened Species List.

In 1984 Dr. Rawlinson was elected to the Australian Conservation Founda—
tion Council. He drew the largest vote among the 64 candidates, running sole-
ly on a platform of abolishing the kangaroo industry. “The kangaroo industry
represents the world’s largest commercial wildlife kill, yet no Australian Parliamen—
tary Act. . .has specific provisions for the establishment or maintenance of such
an industry. The industry therefore has no legal or democratic mandate.”

In Europe, Peter Millington, a long-time campaigner for whales, toured Italy,
Switzerland, and Germany with John Perry’s huge kangaroo balloon. Press
coverage was excellent as Millington told of the slaughter. Even though the 1983
quota of over three million was not filled by the kangaroo hunters, the 1984
quota was set at nearly two million. Estimates of illegal poaching go as high
as a million, not counting the joeys left to starve when their mothers are shot.

THE WELFARE OF HENS

Inventor and farmer Pierre Rannou of Quimper, France, spent many years
developing a way to produce massive quantities of eggs without the cruel depriva-
tion imposed upon hens confined to battery cages. Rannou’s big hen houses
can be occupied by up to 15,000 birds, but if these houses were fitted with bat-
tery cages, they would house three times as many. Thus, the price for the Ran—
nou eggs is slightly higher, but consumers find them tastier, healthier, and satis-
fying to humane concerns.

The president and the treasurer of the Animal Welfare Institute, Christine and
Roger Stevens, visited the Rannou farm and observed the contented birds, who
welcome visitors without any of the hysteria demonstrated by battery—housed
hens. The reason: careful design which provides specially designed nest boxes,
secluded by the overhang of the long platforms, which are covered with sand
for dust bathing and scratching, mixed with kernels of grain and straw for the
pleasure of food finding. Food and water containers extend the full length of
the building, and the sides of the house are open to sun and fresh air except
in inclement weather. Thus, the hens are able to do a variety of things that in-
terest them. They do not pick the feathers off of other hens as those confined
to the tiny battery cages do, and thus, despite their large numbers, they are
not mutilated as battery hens are by debeaking, nor are the antibiotics and drugs
that battery hens are routinely fed, administered to these hens. Egg collection
is automatic.

Despite the success of his operation, Rannou has been persecuted by battery
hen farmers, who threatened to burn down his farm if he would not contribute
eggs to throw on the roads in their protest against low prices. He finally gave
them eggs, but no live hens for the heartless demonstration in which they flung
the birds on a busy street to be run over. Rannou was taken to court and forced

9




to remove from his egg cartons information on how the eggs were produced.
The battery farmers want him out of business.

FARM ANIMALS

In the fall of 1983 the Animal Welfare Institute co-sponsored the US. visit
of the highly—respected Swedish veterinarian, Professor Ingvar Ekesbo of the
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences in Skara. Professor Ekesbo lectured
about farm animal welfare to the annual meeting of the US. Animal Health
AssociatiOn’s Animal Welfare Committee in Las Vegas, Nevada. Ekesbo, who
serves as President of the Standing Committee on Animal Welfare for the Council
of Europe has been a leader in developing an understanding of farm animal
behavior and welfare. Ekesbo was a pioneer in the study of the relationship
between environment and health and productivity in farm animals. For Ekesbo
“health” refers not only to physical welfare but to psychological well-being also,
and to a state of wellness achieved without reliance on drugs. During his US.
visit, AWI also helped to make possible Dr. Ekesbo’s lecture-visit to the Univer-
sity of Minnesota and the US. Department of Agriculture’s Research Center
in Beltsville, Maryland, as well as a presentation before representatives of livestock
organizations in Washington, DC.

At the International Conference on Animal Stress sponsored by the Univer-
sity of California at Davis, scientists from around the world discussed the welfare
of farm animals in modern housing systems. Among the speakers was Dr. Stan
Curtis of the University of Illinois, who acknowledged the severe deprivation
imposed by keeping sows in crates when they are about to give birth to piglets.
During a question and answer session Dr. Curtis spoke about a farmer who
had a pregnant sow whose hind legs were paralyzed due to an injury received
during mating. Despite her severe injury the farmer chose to keep her in order
to get one more litter of piglets from her. He kept her propped up between
bales for many weeks. Shortly before farrowing this injured sow, like healthy
sows, tried with great difficulty to build a nest to give birth to piglets in. She
got up several times, for the first time, a few hours before she delivered her
litter. Commenting on this evidence of the sow’s very strong drive to build a
nest, Dr. Curtis said, in his opinion, that, relative to other husbandry practices,
use of farrowing crates to confine sows, making it” impossible for them to turn
round—much less build a nest—is one of the harshest things done in farm animal
husbandry.

 

 

I)”: all ng/Jt -— human: don’t mﬂer. W

10

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 30,000 individ-
uals and organizations, including public libraries, deans of medical and veterinary
schools, teachers, scientists and AWI members. Among the subjects covered
during the year were:

SUMMER 1983 VOL. 32, NO. 2

CITES. Delegates from over 60 nations gathered in Botswana in April for
the 12-day biennial meeting of the Convention on International Trade in En-
dangered Species (CITES). Six species of whales are now listed on Appendix
I which totally bans international trade. On the debit side pressure from African
nations means that leopard skins (in limited numbers) may now be exported
while Canada blocked a proposal to monitor trade in seal products.

chew“...

W:

Gains of a somewhat shaming kind occurred when CITES nations defeated
a proposal by the US to delist the bobcat—and thereby allow unrestricted trade
in bobcat pelts—and likewise the lynx, river otter, gray wolf and grizzly bear.
Happily it was the data (or in some cases the lack of data) revealed by US con-
servation bodies which did much to defeat the US government on these issues.
This did something to redeem the reputation of the US, once the leader of in-
ternational conservation (CITES is otherwise known as the Washington Con—
vention) but now the willing tool, or so it seems, of short—term commercial
interests.

Elephants. An elephant bill similar to the one which passed the House but
not the Senate in 1979 Was introduced in May by Congressman Beilenson and
70 co-sponsors. Recognizing that the slaughter of elephants for their tusks poses
the principal threat to Africa’s remaining herds, the bill would place a 6—month
moratorium on ivory imports and thereafter permit such imports only from na—
tions with a strong elephant conservation program and (to strengthen enforce-
ment) only through the ports of Seattle and New York.

Chimpanzees. Sierra Leone, though not a member of CITES forbids ex—
ports of its native chimpanzees. So when an Austrian medical firm sought per—
mission of the Sierra Leone government to establish within the country a Hepatitis
Research Institute, alarm bells rang. For hepatitis research uses chimpanzees—
wild ones for preference (despite strong condemnation of this practice by the

11




World Health Organization) as being cheaper than animals bought from caged
breeding colonies. Once set up in Sierra Leone, the country’s dwindling chim-
panzee population could be exploited without contravening the export ban.

The company claimed it would use “only” 60—80 baby chimps each year.
Maybe, but removing just one baby from its family group means first of all
shooting four or five guardian adults. In other words 60-80 live babies in the
laboratory mean 300—400 slain adults. Readers of the Quarterly were urged to
write the President of Sierra Leone, requesting that he reject the proposal.

Laboratory animals. In the period leading up to the July hearings on the
Dole bill (Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act introduced by Senator
Dole), opposition largely took the form of backing for a rival “study bill” (spon-
sored by Senators Kennedy and Hatch). Prominent backers were the Associa-
tion for Biomedical Research and the Association of American Medical Colleges.
In an ABR Update the former, a trade association, explained its support: “This
approach would, more than likely, spin off the animal research legislation for
several years.”

Smith Kline & French, a major pharmaceutical house, has adopted policies
similar to those proposed in the Dole bill. They include: each animal experi—
ment shall be scientifically justifiable and the numbers used shall be the minimum
necessary to obtain the data; wherever feasible, alternative methods not requir-
ing animals shall be used and animal studies of a seemingly unwarranted nature
but required by agency regulations shall be reported to the company’s Director
of Laboratory Animal Science.

Forty—three third and fourth year students at the School of Veterinary Medicine,
University of California at Davis, attended a new elective course entitled Ethical
and Conceptual Problems in the Use of Animals. The lecture on the use of
animals in research and teaching was presented by Dr. Joe Spinelli, Director
of the Animal Care Facility, University of California at San Francisco and Christine
Stevens, President of AWI.

FALL 1983 VOL. 32, NO. 3

Whaling. Under the headline “Whales not safe yet” the lead story deplored
the flabby response of the US to Japan’s objection to the 3-year phase—out of
commercial whaling. While neither of the two Amendments designed to pro—
tect whales and marine resources generally——Packwood-Magnuson and Pelly——
can be invoked until there is an actual breach of the whaling ban in 1986, the
US has a quiverful of arrows in its legislative locker which could be loosed
straightaway at intending IWC rule-breakers.

In April Japan’s fish allocation was cut by 100,000 tons. And further cuts
were expected. But failure to coordinate policies within the two government
Departments concerned,State and Commerce, resulted in Japan receiving vir-
tually its full allocation of fish in July and September. This, the article argued,

12

 




 

 

 

 

was sending the wrong signals to Tokyo. It was confirming the Japanese
hardliners in their belief that IWC decisions could safely be ignored because the
US would not honor its own laws which unequivocally tie fish allocations to
good behavior on whaling.

A separate article summarized the main decision of the annual 5—day meeting
of the IWC: quotas down from 12,577 to 9,875; consensus, after fierce tussles,
on the bowhead; and Peru’s dramatic withdrawal on the final day of its objec-
tion to the whaling ban.

Kangaroos. From Australia came news of yet another kangaroo massacre,
this time involving “social shooters” from Sydney. At the same time, as eastern
Australia experienced its worst drought ever, there were fears that the drive for
an expanded market in kangaroo products was seriously upsetting the age and
sex balance in surviving populations.

Elephants. Since 1980, gangs of heavily armed elephant killers have been
on the rampage in the huge wilderness of southern Sudan. The herds are now
decimated. During 1979-82 the tusks of some 107,000 elephants left Sudan.
Much of this allegedly Sudanese ivory, bearing “legitimate” export documents
courtesy of the Sudanese government, almost certainly orginated from neighbor—
ing countries. lndiscriminate slaughter is on the increase nearly everywhere in
Africa and is fast leading to the extermination of the elephant. From the rapid
fall in tusk weight as measured in Hong Kong and Tokyo, the two main centers
of trade, it is clear that older elephants—those mature enough to breed—are
becoming scarce. Says elephant expert lain Douglas—Hamilton: “It’s a disaster;
the only thing left is to put the elephants in parks and sanctuaries.”

Incidental take. Virtually every fishery in every ocean contributes to the
deaths of nearly a million seabirds and thousands of turtles and marine mam—
mals each year. The biggest killers in this “incidental take” are the gillnets of
the salmon fleets and discarded gear of all kinds which continue to “fish” indef—
initely, claiming some 50,000 northern fur seals a year through entanglement
plus huge numbers of other creatures. Devices to reduce this carnage are con-
stantly being tested. And progress has been made. But the fishing fleets are
unlikely to alter their ways unless and until compelled to.

WINTER 1984 VOL. 32 NO. 4

LD50. Pressure is building up against the murderous LDso—the toxicity test
which condemns to an agonizing death millions of animals a year to satisfy
bureaucratic regulations on new products. Importantly some of the most prom-
inent converts of recent times have come from the ranks of the bureaucrats them-
selves. In November the Food and Drug Administration convened a workshop
on Acute Studies. Nearly every speaker said the LD50 serves little if any pur-
pose today and many emphasized that their own agencies no longer use it.
Among them was the FDA itself which stated it would be addressing such ques-
tions as ——“Do FDA procedures in any way stimulate the perpetuation of the
LDSO?” and “Is the FDA making maximum use of and encouraging the con-

13

 

 




 

 

 

 

tinued development of reliable in vitro testing?” Meanwhile in West Germany
75% fewer animals will now die in toxicity tests following a ruling that "approxi-
mate LDSO” data will be accepted. And the European Commission’s expert com—
mittee on drug testing has recommended that the LD50 be dropped.
Readers of the Quarterly were urged to request national and local media to
give the issue a thorough airing.

 

Birds. 1982 marked the 800th birthday of Saint Francis of Assisi, patron
saint of ecologists. So that summer a San Francisco conservationist traveled to
Assisi to celebrate and to climb Mount Subasio above the city in search of the
birds Saint Francis had preached to. But it was September. The Italian hunting
season was in full swing. He found no birds there—only spent cartridges. Out-
raged he returned home to launch an international campaign. The following
September bird lovers from Europe and America, journalists, churchmen and
politicians (including Italy’s Minister for the Environment) came together in Assisi
to pledge support for the Mount Subasio Declaration which calls for the establish—
ment of a nature reserve and the inclusion of the area on the UN World Cultural
Heritage List.

Laboratory animals. The University of California at Berkeley has been
violating the Animal Welfare Act and NIH Guidelines with impunity for several
years. In a circular to members of its Committee on Educational Policy, the
University claimed: “Campuses strive to correct deficiencies in a timely way.”
But what does timely mean? For the past four years USDA inspectors have been
reporting massive abuses. Wrote one of them: “Monkeys are fed by placing food
in waste pans under floor grills. . .in many rooms (there is) build up of feces
and bedding in cages, on racks, on floors, in corners.”

The university proudly claims that is is “a member of the newly formed Califor-
nia Association for Biomedical Research which was organized exclusively for
educational purposes.” Not mentioned is the parent body, the Association for
Biomedical Research, a trade organization started by the world’s largest sup-
plier of laboratory animals, Charles River, which has branches in Europe and
Japan. It is currently being sued by a researcher at the University of Wisconsin
for negligently and even knowingly supply genetically defective mice.

Martita Goshen. The center pages were given over to the inspiring story
of dancer Martita Goshen who has devoted her life to dramatizing in dance the
plight of animals hunted by man. It began with whales, then moved on to seals,
turtles, wolves and other creatures. “I don’t try to imitate these animals,” she
says, “I want to evoke their spirit.” She choreographs most of her own dances
and has performed in front of many different audiences in many different parts
of the world. “I’m strong and blessed,” she explains, “one of the privileged,
so I feel it’s my responsibility to take care of my corner of the earth, no matter
how small.”

14

 

 




 

 

 

Birth control. The idea of contraceptives for wild animals may seem bizarre.
Yet they are proving an effective, inexpensive and humane alternative to trap-
ping, poisoning, hunting or relocation—the traditional means of controlling
numbers. Birth control compounds, whose effects are reversible, can be given
orally or from a distance with a tranquilizer gun. Or again they can be injected
into strategically placed food supplies. Tests on both males and females have
involved birds, coyotes, foxes, deer, horses, lions and rodents—though for
species which maintain harem-like groups, contraceptives work best when given
to the male. Research funds, though, remain minimal. They should be increased.
For as habitat dwindles and public resistance to trapping and poisoning grows,
birth control shows clear promise of being one solution that all sections of society

will applaud.
% 7mm

Poaching. The US Fish and Wildlife Service increasingly uses undercover
tactics to trap poachers and wildlife traffickers. In Atlanta two agents, posing
as pet dealers, opened a warehouse. Their purchase of turtles, snakes, lizards
and other reptiles led to many arrests. Another and spectacular case resulted
in the breaking of a Colorado—Montana ring in which trophy-sized elk, deer,
goats, sheep and bears were being slain in their hundreds by hunters led on
to their prey (for a price) by guides. The hunter here was the agent. And the
crooked guides? One was a Denver police detective and the other a Montana
minister.

SPRING 1984 VOL. 33 N0. 1

Whaling. For the first time the annual IWC meeting was held in Argentina.
Its main decisions were to ban the killing of sperm whales and (in the teeth of
Japanese opposition) to cut by 40% the quota on minke whales. Since this
very reduced catch must be divided between Japan, the Soviet Union and Brazil,
the economics of continued whaling are now more dubious than ever.

Trapping.With hearings on a House bill (HR 1797) to ban the infamous steel—
jaw leghold trap scheduled for August, Hope Ryden, author and naturalist, drew
on her 15 years’ experience of studying wildlife to explain her wholehearted
support. In the first place the trap is monstrously cruel; victims suffer prolonged
agonies—the proof is overwhelming. Second, it is unselective; non-target
animals, including pets and “protected” species, are frequently caught (a great
many bald eagles, for example). Third, these trapsare being set in large numbers
on lands which are clearly off-limits; enforcement officers concede that this brazen
flouting of the law is widespread and uncontrollable. Fourth, official trapping
returns grossly underestimate the true level of destruction; they take no account
of poaching or of animals that finally escape severely, and usually mortally, crip-
pled. From every standpoint the leghold trap has “no place in responsible
stewardship of wildlife.”

15

 




 

Laboratory animals. A record number of symposia and meetings on
laboratory animals have drawn substantial scientific audiences from all over the
country. One such symposium was held by NIH in April. The magazine, Nature,
though, has scrutinized NlH’s new and supposedly tough set of rules and con-
cluded they are more concerned with image than performance, with public rela—
tions than with a genuine attempt to correct shortcomings. The agency has ap—
peared less keen to consider “sensible criticisms from sensible people”—the Dole
bill and its supporters—than to attack the more extreme antivivisectionists.

A related article dealt with the introduction of a House bill (HR 5725) by “long—
time friend of animals” Congressman George E. Brown. His bill is very similar
in content to the Dole bill (S 657). There was also an article by the chairman
of FRAME (Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments) detail-
ing the aims of this coalition of scientists and politicians in Britain.

Birds. Greece reneged on its commitment to the EEC Directive which for-
bids the killing of migratory birds by permitting a spring shoot. And despite
government assurances, the shoot was not confined to turtle doves. An on-
the-spot check revealed that huge numbers of other birds flying north to their
nesting grounds were also bagged. The conservation message is not readily
understood in Greece; ornithologists are themselves a rare species there.

Back in the US, New York could become the first state to stop cage-bird traders
dealing in wild birds. A New York Senate bill to this effect awaits the Governor’s
signature. Although captive—bred birds are plentiful, wild birds yield a far larger
profit. For the species, though, the drain is excessive. From 1980—83 some four
million parrots, finches, toucans and other birds entered the US. Of these, half
a million died before reaching even the pet shops—and untold numbers soon
afterwards. The New York lead should be followed nation—wide.

Turtles. The riddle of where turtles hatched on beaches from Georgia south
to Panama spend their first year of life has been solved: aboard the sargassum
rafts 50 to 100 miles out to sea. But today these rafts contain not just juicy edibles
like crabs, shrimps and jellyfish but lethal fare like oil and plastics. The turtles
do not discriminate. Man-made pollutants are yet another reason why all species
of sea turtle are now highly endangered.

Chimpanzees and gorillas. Japan and Sierra Leone concluded a
“diplomatic deal” whereby 50 young chimpanzees taken from the forest, were
shipped to a hepatitis research center in Tokyo. Such lS forbidden, both by CITES
of which Japan is a member, and by Sierra Leones own laws. It is cruel,
wasteful—and unnecessary. A Swiss company has developed a synthetic vac-
cine which is expected to make chimp-tested vaccine obsolete within the next
18 months.

The Granby Zoo, Montreal, commissioned a professional hunter to bring back
a young male gorilla from the forests of Cameroon, West Africa (a procedure
which, as with chimps, involves killing the adult guardians) to be a mate for
Zira, the 200’s resident female captured previously. But Zira, scarred by her
traumatic history, is likely to prove unable to oblige. Gorillas are endangered.
Yet Canada’s CITES authority sanctioned the hunting trip.

16

 

 

 




 

 

Meetings Attended and Speeches
Made by AWI Representatives

International Conference on Animal Stress, sponsored by the University of California at Davis,
Sacramento, CA, July 6-8, 1983.

Kangaroo demonstration, Washington, DC, August 3, 1983.

Rock Creek Park Day, Washington, DC, September 24, 1983, AWI booth exhibit.

Animal Rights Coalition annual meeting, St. Paul, MN, September 24-25, 1983. Diane Halverson
spoke about the Pig Family Pen.

Farm Animal Care Trust/ Universities Federation for Animal Welfare closed scientific symposium
on “Behavioral Needs of Farm Animals,” North Mimms, England, September 28-30, 1983. Diane
Halverson attended as invited U.S. observer.

Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research conference, Boston, MA, October 3, 1983.
Presentation on farm animal welfare by Professor lngvar Ekesbo at USDA, Hyattsville, MD,
October 6,1983.

U.S. Animal Health Association Animal Welfare Committee, Las Vegas, NV, October 18, 1983.
Meeting at Norwegian Embassy with Norwegian lWC Commissioner Tresselt and Foreign Minister
Berg, Washington, DC, October 26, 1983.

1983 34th Annual American Association for Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) meeting, November
6-11, 1983, San Antonio, TX. Cathy Liss attended and distributed AWI publications Physical and
Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals and Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals.
Food and Drug Administration conference at Government Services Administration auditorium on
In Vitro Alternative Methods, November 9, 1983.

National Society for Medical Research annual meeting, Arlington, VA, December 13, 1983.
National Capital Area Branch, American Association for the Advancement of Laboratory Animal
Science, Naval Medical Center, preparatory meeting, January 11, 1984.

Meeting with John Byrne, Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
concerning entanglement of dolphins, Washington, DC, February 1, 1984.

University of Minnesota Department of Animal Science Advisory Council Meeting, St. Paul, MN,
April 5, 1983. Diane Halverson participated as Council member.

University of Minnesota School of Public Health class "Perspective: Inter-relationships of People
and Animals in Society Today,” Minneapolis, MN, April 10, 1983. Diane Halverson discussed farm
animal welfare as panel member.

National Institutes of Health, National Symposium on Concerns in Utilization and Care of Animals:
Varying Perspectives on Current Measures, Bethesda, MD, April 11, 1984. Christine Stevens spoke
on “The Urgent Need to Strengthen the Animal Welfare Act.”

“University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, April 26, 1984. Christine Stevens spoke about “Humane
Society Standards for Humane Care.”

National Coalition for Science and Technology seminar, Washington, DC, May 7, 1984.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Training Session, Ames, Iowa, May 15, 1984. Christine
Stevens spoke about “APHIS Inspections of Research Facilities from a Humane Advocate’s
Perspective.”

Scientists’ Center for Animal Welfare workshop at Johns Hopkins “Animals & the Scientist,” Baltimore,
MD, May 24, 1984.

North Carolina Humane Federation Meeting, Charlotte, NC, June 10, 1983. Cathy Liss spoke about
laboratory animals and trapping.

World Society for the Protection of Animals, Boston, MA, June 18—23, 1983. Christine Stevens
spoke on a panel against cruelty.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC, attended weekly meetings.

17

 




 

H
00

Salaries

Payroll taxes

Medical insurance

Temporary help

Advertising

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies

Pnnﬁng

“First Aid and Care of Small Animals”

Other AWl Books

Annual reports

Other AWl publications

T-shirts, bumper stickers, buttons, and posters

Research and writing

Grants

Conferences, meetings, and travel

Postage, mailing and addressing costs
(except for Quarterlies)

Stationery, duplicating, and office supplies

Professional services

Memberships and subscriptions

Acquisition of books and other educational materials

Schweitzer Medal

Consultant fees

Miscellaneous

Total Expenses Before Depreciation
Depreciation of Fixtures and equipment

TOTAL EXPENSES

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1984 AND 1983

Public
Education
And Projects

$ 66,821

6,885
3,968

 

31,406
3,362
7,670

467
1,835
1,612

10,000

2,156

202,135
303

$202,438

 

 

 

Program Services

 

Save The
Whales
$ 16,156

1,692

 

43,710

8,435

12,562

2,150

14,199
970
2,144

170
102,188

 

 

$102,188

 

 

Total

$ 82,977
8,577
3,968

43,710
31,406
11,797
7,670
467
1,835
1,612
12,562

 

 

 

 

 

Supporting Services

Management

And
General
$21,983

2, 264
792

 

5,396
2,189

1,670

51

6,396
4,481
6,569

463

52,254
101

$52,355

 

 

 

 

Fund
Raising

$5,161
536
248

 

176
193
2,413

55

9,390
101

$9,491

Total Expenses

For The Years
Ended June 30,

1984

$110,121
11,377
5,008
43,886
36,995
16,399
7,670
467
3,505
1,612
12,699
8,400
6,500
17,309

37,057
14,504
6,866
11,310
1,354
84
10,000
2,844

365,967
505

£366,472

1983

$107,156

10,335
3,835
2,667

140,724

35,225

4,844

49,876
7,493
6,749
5,211

277

16,205

22,664

38,128
18,144
5,161
13,319
3,585

4,000

3,648

499,246
485

$499,731

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650

Washington, DC. 20007

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.

F. Barbara Orlans, PhD.
Roger Payne, PhD.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.V.M.——Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.V.M.—Greece
Angela King—United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru—Kenya

David Ricardo—Canada
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Hon. Fumihiko Togo—Japan

Staff
Patrick Allen, Editorial
Consultant
Cynthia Bank, Executive
Assistant
Elizabeth Cory
Publications Secretary
Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for Livestock and Poultry

Lynne Hutchinson, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand, PhD.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel (30th
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Cathy Liss, Research
Associate

Nell Naughton, Mail
Order Secretary

Greta Nilsson, Wildlife
Consultant

Adele Schoepperle,
Assistant Treasurer
Louise Wright, Research

Assistant

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing in-
come tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s much—
needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the Institute will help
guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals. Please remember the

Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest.

Igive to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of

dollars

 

(or if other property, describe the property)-

 




 

Animai Welfare Institute

 

Thirty-Fourth Annual Report
1 July 1984 to 30 June 1985

 

Scarlet Macaw by Edward Lear

 




 

WHALES

As the moratorium on commercial whaling voted by the International Whal-
ing Commission approached, pressure by Japan on the US. government in-
tensified because sanctions under US. law are the only enforceable penalties
against nations that contravene IWC decisions. The Packwood-Magnuson
amendment mandates withdrawal of fishing rights from such nations. The test
came on Japanese Sperm Whaling. The IWC had forbidden, by a vote of 25-1,
any further killing of sperm whales. Yet, on November 13, 1984 the US. govem—
ment agreed to let Japan kill 400 sperm whales a year for two years without
any sanctions. Japanese whalers immediately began killing sperm whales in de—
fiance of the IWC ban.

Lawsuit to save the whales. AWI and eight other groups filed a lawsuit in
US. District Court seeking a judicial order nullifying this agreement, and a court
order directing the Secretaries of Commerce and State to impose sanctions
against the Japanese fishing industry as required under Packwood-Magnuson.

William D. Rogers, former Undersecretary of State represented the conser—
vationists. His law firm, Arnold and Porter, prepared the legal action pro bono.
Mr. Rogers stated: “The November 13, 1984 exchange of correspondence gives
no commitment that Japan will ever comply. . .

“Thus, even if one assumes that the Secretary of Commerce has unfettered
discretion to determine what actions ‘diminish the effectiveness’ of the conven—
tion, the November 13, 1984 understanding with Japan is unsupportable—a
classic abuse of discretion. It trades a continuation of Japanese whaling—which
must on any theory diminish the Convention’s effectiveness—for nothing.”

On March fifth, Judge Charles H. Richey ruled that Japan must be certified
for killing protected whales and that its fishing allocations in the US. ZOO-mile
zone be cut as required by the Packwood-Magnuson amendment.

The Judge ordered that Secretary Baldrige and Secretary Shultz be per-
manently enjoined from failing to certify any whaling activities by Japan that
violate IWC quotas.

Further, he denied the government’s request for a stay, but this was granted
by the Court of Appeals March 19th. No ruling had been handed down by the

end of the period covered in this annual report. *

Airline boycott. In December AWI took a centerfold ad in the Japanese
magazine Asahi Journal. The ad reviewed the situation and appealed to Prime
Minister Nakasone to exercise statesmanship by withdrawing Japan’s objection
to the IWC ban on the hunting of sperm whales. The appeal fell on deaf ears
and a worldwide boycott of Japan Airlines—of which the Japanese government
is the major shareholder—began in January. Organizations all over the world
joined in the boycott, led by Greenpeace.

'On August 6, 1985 the Court ruled 2 to 1 to uphold Judge Richey’s decision.

2




Recognition for a leading whale scientist. The MacArthur Foundation
award, made annually to original thinkers, went to Roger Payne, a member
since 1976 of AWl’s Scientific Committee and winner of the Albert Schweitzer
Medal in 1980. Payne first brought the songs of the humpback whale to public
notice and his pioneering studies of this and other whale species have over the
years provided invaluable scientific-cum-ethical backing for the anti-whaling
crusade. His 1978 statement to the lWC, a powerful condemnation on ethical
grounds of commercial whaling, was reprinted in full in the Fall 1984 Animal
Welfare Institute Quarterly.

Strandings. Frank Robson’s book by this name, published in 1984, is the
result of a lifetime of study and practical rescue operations for whales and dolphins
on the New Zealand coast. Reviewing it in the Quarterly Tom Garrett wrote,
“Robson is a pioneer, the first person to have systematically exploited the op—
portunity to learn about living cetaceans through strandings. His book is, without
question, a classic and his personal example in successfully moving hundreds
of whales and dolphins back to sea or preventing them from stranding at all,
stands as a goal for friends of whales throughout the world.”

Humpback whales by Richard Ellis.

 

Whales vs. Whalers. AWl’s informal history of the campaign to save the
whales, excerpted from articles that have appeared in the AWI Information Report
and Quarterly from 1971-1980 was updated this year bringing it through 1984.
It continues to be the most comprehensive summary of this still unfinished struggle
which has successfully prevented extinction and slowed depletion of whale
populations throughout the world.

3

 




 

 

HEARINGS TO END THE USE OF STEEL JAW TRAPS

Congressman Henry Waxman (D, CA) chaired hearings on a bill to prohibit
interstate commerce in steel jaw traps or furs from animals caught in these cruel
devices. These August 3, 1984 hearings were the second ever held in the US
Congress.

The Society for Animal Protection Legislation, (SAPL) a companion organiza-
tion to the AWl, played a major role in gathering authentic documentation and
exhibits for presentation to the subcommittee on Health and the Environment
to which the bill was referred. A huge bear trap on the witness table discour-
aged apologists for the steel trap from trying to persuade the Congressmen that
it causes no injury. There was a display of steel jaw traps in different sizes and
of alternatives, including box traps and the EZYONEM cable-coated legsnare,
together with mounted photos of animals in traps. A video tape of different
species struggling in agony was narrated by Gregory Peck and presented by
SAPL.

 

credit: Ed Cesar

Wild cat caught in a steel-jaw trap.

AWl’s book Facts About Furs is the classic reference on the subject with ex—
tensive charts on state trapping laws in the US, a history of the way in which
furs are obtained throughout the world, and legislation in other countries, more
than 60 of which have banned the steel—jaw leghold trap.

Professor Jan Englund of the Swedish Museum of Natural History presented
a summary of his research on severe injuries suffered by foxes caught in steel
jaw traps, including broken teeth and eroded jaw bones resulting from the pain-
fully clamping trap jaws. Sweden outlawed this trap after examining the evidence

4




of intense agony which it causes. Only cable-coated legsnares are now used
to capture foxes in Sweden.

Despite the powerful and convincing evidence offered, the 98th Congress
adjourned without action on the proposed legislation. Intense opposition by trap-
pers, furriers, and organizations such as the Wildlife Legislative Fund of America
and the National Wildlife Federation prevented passage of the bill. A new bill,
HR. 1809, was introduced in the 99th Congress by Representatives Tom Lantos
(D, CA) and James Scheuer (D, NY) and, by the end of the period covered
in this report, had 70 co-sponsors.

MEETING OF THE CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL
TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES

The parties to CITES met in Argentina in April. Delegates to the conference
received two brand new publications sponsored by AWI. One was a BOO-page
report by Greta Nilsson, author of The Bird Business. The report, titled Impor-
tation of Birds into the United States 1980-1984, is replete with horrifying statistics
on mortality rates—sometimes as high as 80%—for birds coming into this
country.

The second publication was titled Injury, Damage to Health and Cruel Treat-
ment and deals with the CITES requirement that the shippers and carriers of
wild animals do their utmost to ensure the safety and health of their charges.
The study undertaken by Nick Carter, John Brookland and Cheryl Hora of the
Environmental Investigation Agency, views the trade from the standpoint of cap—
ture, preparation and shipment to eventual purchase. What comes to light is
an enormous tragedy: wholesale deaths in quantities not hitherto realized and
involving terror and suffering on an unimaginable scale. AWI support led to
publication of the summary of the 490—page, 4-year report and its distribution
to delegates at the CITES meeting attended by both Carter and Brookland. Greta
Nilsson represented AWI throughout the two-week program, seeking improved
protection for endangered and threatened species.

Most significant action to curb abuses in the shipment of living birds, primates,
and other creatures was a resolution providing for the representatives of the
Environmental Investigation Agency to draft new shipping standards in conjunc-
tion with the International Air Transport Association.

NEW YORK WILD BIRD ACT

Inspired by ﬁe unvarnished facts about the exotic bird trade in AWI’s The
Bird Business, by Greta Nilsson, Henry North Seymour, Jr. encouraged
Assemblyman Bob Conner and Senator John Dunne to introduce legislation
to extend the protection against commercial sale which New York state pro-
vides to its native birds, to wild birds from other countries. Their bills were passed
and signed into law by Governor Mario Cuomo August 7, 1984. The pet in-
dustry fought hard to induce the Governor to withhold his signature, and in
1985 almost succeeded in repealing it. But the law stands and is due to go into

5

 




 

effect November 1, 1985. New York is the third largest importer of birds after
California and Florida. With wild-caught birds supplying over 75% of the market,
the huge mortality between capture and finalsale and the sharp decline in wild
populations, the New York ban was warmly greeted by conservation and humane
groups.

A crate of dead and dying
wild caught exotic birds.

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his bill, HR. 5725, the
Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act, September 19, 1984. He
proved adept at demolishing the devious arguments of the bill’s opponents. He
pointed out that some institutions which NIH listed as “adequate or excellent”
had been found out of compliance by USDA. The reason for this divergence
of view became clear when the NIH Director revealed under questioning that
NIH visits are always announced beforehand.

Christine Stevens reported as a witness on current inspection reports which
point to the wholesale failure of the institutions: “Even using the most optimistic
assumptions only 24.2% of registered research facilities are regularly meeting
the existing minimum standards of the Animal Welfare Act!” As part of her writ-
ten testimony she distributed excerpts from tapes of dialogue recorded during
experimental operations on baboons at the Head Injury Clinical Research Center,
University of Pennsylvania. The tapes demonstrated, beyond argument and
despite contrary assertions by University spokesmen, indefensible cruelty egged
on_by nauseating joviality.

The extensive documentation on “deficiencies” and “alleged violations” of
the federal Animal Welfare Act was undertaken by the Animal Welfare Institute
with support for this work by the AHIMSA Foundation. Louise Wright, AWI
Research Assistant, carried out the major portion of the work compiling data
obtained under the Freedom of Information Act from the US. Department of
Agriculture and National Institutes of Health. The record on 186 institutions
”showed that 77.3% of institutions that had major and repeated deficiencies
received increased amounts of funds from NIH in the second year for which
data was collected; 22.7 of these institutions not only got more money but used
more animals in the second year.

Statistics and examples from this study were included in presentations made

6

credit: John Brookland




;.s

by AWI’s president to the Association of Professors of Medicine and to the Na-
tional Capitol area Branch of The American Association for Laboratory Animal
Science. The AWl paperback book, Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory
Animals, was made available without charge to all who attended these meetings.
The book concludes with a two-page summary of the Animal Welfare Institute
Policy on the use of Vertebrate Animals for Experimentation and Testing.

Convincing documentation of neglect and abuses that result in needless animal
suffering in laboratories is brought to scientists, administrators and staff by AWI
in order to help achieve reforms that will reduce the numbers of animals used
and reduce the suffering of those that continue to be sold to scientific institu-
tions. It is especially encouraging when authorities within the academic com-
munity express views that AWI strongly supports. An outstanding statement by
Dr. Lloyd E. Davis of the University of Illinois College of Veterinary Medicine
appears in Animal Pain: Perception and Alleviation published by the American
Physiological Society this year: “One of the psychological curiosities of therapeutic
decision-making is the withholding of analgesic drugs because the clinician is
not absolutely certain that the animal is experiencing pain. Yet the same individual
will administer antibiotics without documenting the presence of a bacterial in-
fection. Pain and suffering constitute the only situation in which I believe that,
if in doubt, one should go ahead and treat.”

LECTURE TOUR ON FARM ANIMAL WELFARE

Under the auspices of AWI, Professor David Wood-Gush from the Edinburgh
School of Agriculture made a month-long lecture tour of US. universities and
research centers to speak on farm animal welfare. He presented the findings
from his study of pigs kept in conditions resembling those of the animals’ distant
ancestors. The system, with its emphasis on free and natural behavior, has
resulted in excellent productivity and physical health.

Veterinarians, agricultural engineers, and animal scientists scheduled lectures
at Texas A&M University, University of Minnesota, University of Illinois, Pur-
due University, Comell University at Ithaca, West Virginia State University, Penn-
sylvania State University, and Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State Universi-
ty. Dr. Wood-Gush also addressed the Animal Welfare Committee of the US.
Animal Health Association, and personnel at USDA’s Meat Animal Research
Center, Clay Center, Nebraska and its Beltsville, Maryland Agricultural Research
Center, the latter in conjunction with the University of Maryland.

AWl is the only organization bringing scientific experts from other countries
to lecture at universities and government agencies on modern methods of rais-
ing livestock and poultry which make provision for the animals’ normal behavior
and avoid the long-drawn-out suffering inflicted by such intensive systems as
narrow sow stalls, veal calf crates and battery cages for hens. In previous years,
Dr. lngvar Ekesbo (1982) and Dr. Alex Stolba (1983) have lectured under AWl
auspices, and further educational ventures are planned to bring practical humane
thinking into academic circles in the United States.

7

 




 

THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

9 QUARTERLY

G
The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 30,.“ individ—
uals and organizations including public libraries, deans of medical and veterinary

schools, teachers, scientists, and AWI members. Among the subjects covered .

during the year were:

SUMMER 1984 VOL. 33, NO. 2

Cage Bird Trade Bolivia. Some 900 parrots awaiting export at an aircraft
compound were rescued by the Bolivian Wildlife Society and its allies. The birds
were about to be flown out on false papers in advance of a government one—
year ban on parrot exports. The subsequent rehabilitation, the first ever Latin
American project of this kind, was a success. Within a week 500 of the parrots
had been released back into the wild. The remainder were moved next to the
Amboro National Park which in due course became their new home.

The article also drew attention to the scandalous subverting of CITES by Boli—
vian authorities: bribery, corruption and persistent faking of export papers on
a scale requiring repeated intervention by the CITES Secretariat in Switzerland.
Since 1980 more than half of all US. imports of birds from Latin America have
emanated from Bolivia.

Trapping Steel-jaw leghold. Hearings on HR. 1797, the House bill to ban
the steel-jaw trap, were characterized by outbursts of astonishing vituperation
and ignorance from opponents of the bill. Supporters were branded (by the Presi—
dent of the National Trappers’ Association) as belonging to “animal worship cults”
and the 59 countries which have outlawed the infamous trap were accused of
being “still in the dark ages.” A similar line tried by Ron Lambertson, Associate
Director for Wildlife Resources, received a swift come—uppance from Con-
gressman James Scheuer: “We’d have to be a nation of collective fools not to
look to other countries that have succeeded.” In response to Lambertson’s asser-
tion that coyotes can escape from the Swedish legsnare, Professor Englund of
the Swedish Museum of Natural History countered: “I don’t understand escap-
ing; you must have increased the length too much.” Plainly the Fish and Wildlife
Service had failed to seek the necessary advice from Sweden’s leading expert
on this legsnare which vastly reduces injury and pain to the trapped animal.

The claim by Congressman Young that the trap was commercial “for the little
man” brought a sharp rejoinder from Chairman Waxman, “There were small
holders of slaves. That doesn’t justify slavery.” The “little people” plea was picked
up by several supporting witnesses. Reference was made to the large number
of child trappers—“sub-teenagers putting steel-jaw traps all over the place, and

8

.c
.31

 




--.C a

catching anything that walks, crawls or flies down from its perch”——and to the
disgraceful fact that some states reduce the license fee for children.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation placed a bear trap on the witness
table to enable any who wished to test the myth that the leghold is a fairly painless
device to do so. None did! The trap was also on display to explode another
popular myth——that there is a size- limitation on steel traps and that teeth are
illegal. In fact 22 states have no size limitations and 28 states permit teeth.

Smuggling Operation Falcon. A 3-year “sting” culminated in the busting of
a nationwide ring dealing in endangered birds of prey intended for sale .to Euro-
pean and (particularly) Arab falconers for huge sums. On 29 June 39 arrests
were made across 14 states—and in Canada a further 15 arrests. Enormous
numbers of raptors—among them gyrfalcons and 140 peregrines—as well as
cars, trucks and even planes were seized.

FALL 1984 VOL. 33 NO. '3

Endangered Species CITES, Japan. A meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia,
of the Asian, Middle East and South Pacific parties to CITES condemned Japan’s
continuing trade in endangered species. Of the region’s 17 CITES members,
15 attended—Japan and Iran being the only absentees. However certain Tokyo
newspapers picked up the story and lent editorial support to the call for Japan
to honor the treaty it ratified in 1980.

Rhino. During the 1970’s around 40% of all rhino horn in trade was being
imported by North Yemen. In 1982 the country bowed to international pressure
and banned all further imports. But two years later the 40% figure had risen
to over 50%—although total volume was down because of the scarcity of
animals. Rhino expert Esmond Bradley Martin called for far stricter controls from
exporting nations, particularly Sudan.

Hawaii. Most of Hawaii’s animal species and 95% of the islands’ plants are
unique. Yet no fewer than 800 of these plant species are now on the endangered
or threatened list—as are a great many of the animals. Species introduced from
outside have wreaked havoc. But occasionally a native species fights back. A
bird, the palila (represented by the Sierra Club) sued the Hawaii Department
of Land and Natural Resources for violating the Endangered Species Act by
permitting sheep to destroy its habitat—and won!

Smuggling Operation Trophy Kill. On 4 October 1984 charges of violating
state and federal wildlife laws were brought against 34 people in nine states.
The arrests climaxed a 3—year undercover investigation by the Fish and Wildlife
Service into massive poaching of bighorn sheep, black bear, mountain lion and
many other native species, and large-scale smuggling of jaguar, cheetah and
other exotic cat species. The ringleader (as reported in the Spring 1985 Quarterly)
received a 15-year prison sentence.

 




 

 

 

Animal Communication Gray parrot. An African gray parrot at the Depart-
ment of Anthropology at Northwestern University has been trained to identify
objects and use spoken words to express his wishes. He knows five different
colors, four different shapes and the names of 23 objects. But the species is
paying a high price for its intelligence: The US. alone has imported over 70,000
since 1980. This excessive exploitation for the pet trade could be endangering
the species.

Dr. Irene
Pepperberg

testing the powers
of communication
of Alex, an

African gray parrot.

 

WINTER 1985 VOL. 33 NO. 4

Laboratory Animals Zero funding. The front page contained a forthright at-
tack on the administration’s recommendation of zero funding for the 1966
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. Should Congress submit, the result would be
a return to the ghastly conditions of unchecked cruelty famously exposed by
Life magazine in February of 1966. With all fear of inspections removed, more
than 1100 research facilities, 3490 animal dealers and 346 airports and carriers
would be under no pressure to provide even the minimal care required by the
Act.

The center pages were given over to a supporting horror story—the case of
a Californian dealer whose kennel compound was found to contain the rotting
corpses of 18 dogs and 19 cats plus a further 88 starving animals. Under an
action brought by USDA the dealer was put out of business for life and was
heavily fined. So the law was enforced—but with zero funding it might well not
have been.

Forest Destruction Amazonia. Brazil—a damming indictment told the story
of the Tucurui dam and the flooding of almost 800 square miles of Amazonian
rainforest. Crass mismanagement and a cavalier disregard for the ecological rule—
book have combined to ensure prodigious environmental costs without even
the guarantee of economic gain in terms of cheap hydro-electric power. At the
same time the Amerindians living in the region have found themselves brutally

10

 

 

 




-

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

shunted aside. Environmental and anthropological groups urged the World Bank,
a prime funder of the project, to “exercise its maximum leverage in this situa—
tion”—especially having regard to the fact that the Bank’s loan was given on
the stict condition of proper protection for both the environment and the Amerin-
dian tribes.

United States. An anonymous caller to the national media who uses the code-
name Deep Root has alleged that the US. Forest Service is colluding with the
timber industry to build thousands of miles of roads through virgin forest. The
purpose, says Deep Root, is to make these areas ineligible for protection as
“Wilderness,” for this designation cannot be applied where roads exist. The Ser-
vice’s reaction suggests that these disclosures have clear-felled an area of forestry
policy which it had hoped to preserve as densely tangled undergrowth, im—
penetrable to public scrutiny.

Desert Elephants Namibia. Nick Carter of the Environmental Investigation
Agency asked for support for the Namibian Wildlife Society. Namibia is home
to the relict giraffe. So far the fewer than 70 elephants and 50 rhinos have been
successfully protected from poachers by a handful of dedicated people but the
area is vast and their resources pitifully small.

Wolves Aerial killing. In December the Alaska Board of Game voted 4-3
to expand aerial wolf hunting despite strong public opposition. The new area
had a kill quota of 100 wolves out of a total estimated population of 125, so
leaving just 25 wolves for an area of 5000 square miles. Yet government research
has revealed that moose calves are six times more likely to be killed by grizzly

A wolf from the film
version of “Never Cry
Wolf” by Farley Mowat.




 

 

 

bears than by wolves. And other research has shown that “experimental” wolf
eradication has no effect on moose numbers.

In Canada the Federal Department of the Environment has denounced as
“unscientific and dangerous” the wolf kill program in British Columbia where
the provincial Ministry of Environment is using Fish and Wildlife staff in helicopters
to wipe out entire populations in certain areas. However in Minnesota the Eighth
Circuit Court upheld a district court ruling that the state’s wolves may not be
hunted and that a projected sport—trapping season for wolves would violate the
Endangered Species Act.

Migratory Birds Mass slaughter. Hunters in Cyprus kill some 20 million
migratory birds a year—the highest number per square mile of any Mediterra-
nean country. During the hunting seasons much of the island is blanketed in
mist nets and more hunting licenses are being issued than ever before. Since
Cyprus is one of the three main routes for birds crossing the Mediterranean and
since perhaps 75% of those choosing this route are killed, the International Coun-
cil for Bird Preservation is trying to pressurize the government by urging travel
agents and its four million European members to boycott tourism there.

SPRING 1985 VOL. 34 NO. 1

Laboratory Animals Unreported cruelty. The deaths from exposure to ex—
treme cold of three squirrel monkeys and a pigtail monkey on domestic flights
from New York made the lead story. For behind it lay a disgraceful tale of derelic—
tion of duty and cruel negligence by three separate parties—attitudes which,
if typical (and there is no reason to suppose otherwise), combine to make these
“accidents” far more frequent than is generally realized or reported.

AWI learned of this case through an employee of the carrier Emery Worldwide.
He asserted that the company’s personnel are not trained to ensure the safety
of animals—which when left unattended on loading docks in sub-zero
temperatures, are almost certain to die. The other two actors in this squalid tale
were the recipient of the three dead squirrel monkeys, the Animal Care Facility
at the University of California, San Francisco, and the shipper, the infamous
Charles River. The former wrote to the latter demanding replacements and the
latter wrote to Emery demanding compensation. But neither the University nor
(more predictably) Charles River saw fit to report what was plainly a ﬂagrant
breach of the Animal Welfare Act.

Concentration camps. Jane Goodall, the world’s foremost authority on chim—
panzees, was the winner of the 1984 Getty Prize—awarded for outstanding ser-
vices to conservation. At a National Press Club lunch in her honor she reserved
her harshest words for animal research: “I have the horrible feeling when look-
ing at some of these laboratories that here we have in essence a concentration
camp where creatures are subjected to one painful experiment after another.
There is no hope for them. No way of escape at all.”

12

 




 

aft -

Frozen loans. Under informed and persistent pressure from environmentalists,
the World Bank announced in April that it was freezing all further loans—
effectively $256 million—for Brazil’s rainforest development in Rondonia. Earlier
the Inter-American Development Bank had also decided to withhold funds——
again under strong pressure from environmentalists—from Brazil’s rainforest
development in the neighboring state of Acre. In both cases the decision was
taken on environmental grounds, the ﬁrst time either bank, or indeed any bank,
has acted in this way for this reason.

Endangered Species Supporting the Act. With the Endangered Species Act
up for renewal in Congress, an eminent witness for the defense was British
naturalist and maker of the television series, The Living Planet, David Atten-
borough. His eloquent testimony was reprinted in full.

Unique robin. A female black robin called Old Blue made history when her
death in the uninhabited Chatham Islands was commemorated by a New Zealand
government announcement. Singlemindedly and almost singlehandedly she had
hauled back from the brink of extinction an entire species. In 1980 the world
population of the black robin was down to just five birds with one breeding pair.
Over the next four years she laid three clutches of eggs each season. Of the
19 robins now alive, Old Blue is mother of six and grandmother of 11. The
species should be safe.

Gourmet Trade Frog’s legs. An article calling for a permanent ban on the
gourmet trade in frogs’ legs documented both the cruelty involved and the
ecological harm done to the chief exporters, India and Bangladesh. The limbs
are torn gfrom the live bodies of some 200 million frogs a year. Since frogs eat
almost their own weight of insects daily, this huge slaughter has meant crop
pests multiplying, harvests suffering and both people and cattle being hit by a
devastating increase in malaria and other waterborne diseases carried by insects.
The economic equation is also badly askew. While India’s revenue from the
export of frogs’ legs is around $7 million a year, the annual bill for pesticides
imported to do the work of the butchered frogs is $17 million.

 
  

credit: David Whiting

13

 




 

 

 

Meetings Attended and Speeches Made by
AWI Representatives

Animal & Plant Health Inspection Service Training Course, August 7, 1984. Hyattsville, MD.
Christine Stevens spoke on The Animal Welfare Act from the Humane Advocate’s viewpoint.

Meeting at Australian Embassy with Barry Cohen, Minister of the Environment, to protest massive
kangaroo slaughter, August 10, 1984.

Office of Technology Assessment Advisory Session on Alternatives, Washington, DC,
September 18, December 13, 1984, March 8, 1985.

National Capitol Area Branch/ American Association for Laboratory Animal Science annual
meeting, September 26, 1984. Christine Stevens on panel.

Animal Legal Defense Fund annual meeting, October 21, 1984, Arlington, VA. Christine Stevens
spoke on “A View from the Hill.”

Animal Welfare Committee Meeting, US. Animal Health Association, Fort Worth, TX, October
23, 1984. David Wood-Gush spoke on The Pig Family Pen.

lnteragency meetings, International Whaling Commission, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Washington, DC, November 6, 1984, January 29, March 1, April 24, 1985.

US. Department of Agriculture/ University of Maryland, David Wood—(Bush lecture on Farm
Animal Welfare, Beltsville, MD, November 19, 1984.

Pennsylvania State University—David Wood-Gush lecture, on farm animal behavior and welfare,
November 20, 1984.

Tuna—Porpoise meeting National Marine Fisheries Service, Washington, DC, November 20,
1984.

National Society for Medical Research annual meeting, Washington, DC, December 11, 1984.

Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora meeting,
US. Department of Interior, February 14, March 4, and June 20, 1985.

US. District Court hearing: American Cetacean Society, et. al. v. Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary
of Commerce, et. al., Appellants, Japan Whaling Association, et. al., Washington, DC,
February 20, 1985.

International Air Transport Association Conference, Tampa, FL, March 19, 1985. Greta Nilsson
spoke on transportation of live wild birds.

Meeting on Alternatives—Catholic University Project, Washington, DC, April 3, 1985.
National Academy of Sciences workshop on Ethical Aspects of Animal Research, April 19, 1985.

Meeting of the parties to the CITES, Buenos Aires, Argentina, April 22 —May 3, 1985. Greta
Nilsson represented AWI and spoke jointly with Nick Carter of the Environmental Investiga-
tion Agency at a meeting of the Fundacion Vida Silvestre on lnhumane Conditions of Animal
Transport, May 3, 1985.

Meeting of Association of Professors of Medicine, Washington, DC, May 3, 1985. Christine
Stevens spoke on laboratory animal welfare, reporting on deficiencies and apparent violations
of the Federal Animal Welfare Act.

Oral arguments on whale law suit: American Cetacean Society, et. al. v. Malcolm Baldrige,
Secretary of Commerce, et. al., Appellants, Japan Whaling Association, et. al., US. Court
of Appeals, Washington, DC, May 16, 1985.

Meeting with Icelandic Fisheries Minister, Washington, DC, June 13, 1985.

National Alliance for Animal Legislation meeting, Washington, DC, June 23, 1985. Christine
Stevens spoke on laboratory animal issues and Cathy Liss spoke on trapping issues.

14

 

 

 




 

_-.. _-*-.,_s~_._.‘ .- We

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

Program Services Supporting Services Total Expenses

For the Years
Ended June 30,

Public Management
Education Save The and Fund

 

H
0'1

Salaries
Payroll taxes
Medical insurance
Advertising
Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies
Printing: “Let Us Live." “Letter From a Whale." and
whale posters
“First Aid and Care of Small Animals"
“Importation of Birds lnto The United States"
"Supplement to Whales Versus Whalers”
Miscellaneous books
Annual reports
Other AWl publications
T-shirts. bumper stickers. buttons. and posters
Research and writing
Grants
Conferences. meetings. and travel
Postage. mailing and addressing costs (except for
Quarterlies)
Stationery. duplicating. and office supplies
Professional services
Memberships and subscriptions
Acquisition of books and other educational materials
Consultant fees
Miscellaneous
Total Expenses Before Depreciation
Depreciation of fixtures and equipment

TOTAL EXPENSES

and Projects

Whales

 

$ 65.739
6.602

55.567
14.755

1.709
2.215
1.151

6.234
33.621
5.756
9.543

16.381
11.432
286
5.507

8.520

245.018

1.069

$246,087

$ 16.630
1.546

83.045

14.530

500
.500

r—4

7.544
1.102
1.972
2.904

132.641

$132.641

TOTAL

$ 82.369
8.148
83.045
55.567

29.285
1.709
2.215
1.151

6.234
1.368
34.121
7.256
9.543

23.925
12.534
286
7.479
2.904
8.520

377.659

1.069

$378728

General

$24432
2.307
4.427

595
315
821

m’n’m’

346

54.483
357

$54840

Raising
$ 5.161
519

4.684

11.265

$11,622

1985
$111,962
10.974
4.427
87.729
55.567

34.008

1.709
2.215
1.151
6.234
1.431
34.121
7.256
9.543

29.875
19.849
6.107
7.479
2.904
8.520
346

443.407

1.783

$445190

1984
$110,121
11.377
5.008
43.886
36.995

16.399
7.670

467
3,505
1.612

12.699
8.400
6.500

17.309

37.057
14.504
6.866
11.310
1.354
10.000
2.928
365.967
505

$366472

 




 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650

Washington, DC. 20007

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.V.M.—Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.V.M.—Greece
Angela King—United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru—~Kenya

David Ricardo—Canada
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo—Japan

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia Bank, Executive Assistant

Jessie Despard, Administrative Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for Livestock and Poultry

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Rosario Teran, Clerical Assistant

Susan Wogan, Publications Coordinator
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing in-
come tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s much-
needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the Institute will help
guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals. Please remember the
Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest.
[give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of
(or if other property, describe the property).

dollars

 

 

 




 

Animal Welfare Institute
Thirty-Fifth Annual Report
1 July 1985 to 30 June 1986

 

3,
3

1986 Albert Schweitzer Medalist
Senator Robert Dole with his dog “Leader.”

 




 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

A great victory for laboratory animals was achieved this year. Senator Robert
Dole and Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. had devoted years of effort to the
development of humane legislation to minimize pain and distress for laboratory
animals and encourage the use of alternatives. Hearings held by Senator Dole
in 1983 and by Congressman Brown in 1984 were followed by thorough discus-
sion with all parties concerned, guided by the humane determination of the two
lawmakers and the many colleagues who joined them in support for the needed
legislation.

The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act was brought to the Senate
ﬂoor for a vote by Majority Leader Dole as an amendment to the Farm Bill 25
October, but determined opposition by powerful scientific groups slowed action.
A bill calling for 16 different changes, all of them weakening, had to be dealt
with, and when that was accomplished, a second series of 32 amendments was
suggested by the bill’s opponents. But by 29 October, Senator John Melcher
was able to offer a substitute bill which passed the Senate unanimously. The
House of Representatives had already passed the Farm Bill without the amend-
ments proposed by Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. which were similar to
Senator Dole’s bill. Majority Whip Tom Foley and Agriculture Committee Chair-
man Kika de la Garza supported the Senate action, and on 12 December the
Senate-House Conference on the Farm Bill approved the Improved Standards
for Laboratory Animals.

The legislation establishes an information service in the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine to provide data on
alternatives to laboratory animals, help prevent unintended duplication of exper-
iments and tests, and provide information to institutions for instruction of scientists
and other personnel in humane practices as required by the new law. Each
registered research facility must appoint an institutional animal committee includ-
ing a veterinarian and a person unaffiliated with it to represent the general com-
munity interests in the proper care and treatment of animals. The committee
must inspect the animal laboratories twice a year and report deficiences to the
institution for correction. If not corrected promptly, the US. Department of Ag-
riculture must be notified for enforcement action, and any funding agency involved
informed for a decision on whether the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and to consult with a veterina-
rian before beginning any experiment which could cause pain. They must adhere
to standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre- and post-surgical care,
use of pain relieving drugs or euthanasia, against use of paralytics without anes-
thesia, and unnecessary use of the same animal for more than one major oper-
ation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only when speciﬁed by a research
protocol and an explanation given for any deviation. Fines for violations were
raised from $1,000 to $2,500 and from $500 to $1,500 a day under cease and
desist orders.

2

 

 




Regulations under the new law are being written by USDA’s Veterinary Services
staff.

Beyond the Laboratory Door

Published by AWI at the end of 1985, Beyond the Laboratory Door, the result
of four years of research and writing by Louise Wright, AWI Research Assistant;
Jeff Diner, who authored Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals
in 1979 and brought his review of painful experiments published in refereed
journals up to date in the new book; and Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D., AWI Scientific
Committee member who painstakingly edited the text.

The three-part book begins with a preface by Samuel Peacock, Jr., MD. (AWI
Scientiﬁc Committee member), in which he writes: “The survey in the succeeding
pages covers many projects of this type, most of them motivated by the doctrine
of ‘publish or perish.’ In my view, this is not science in the traditional sense but
rather a kind of scientific prostitution in an attempt at empire building within a
very competitive atmosphere.”

 

Photo: Peter Hamilton - Lifeforce

A dog in its cage after undergoing brain surgery.

Part I, entitled “Unjustifiable by Any Standard,” consists of excerpts from the
inspection reports of the US. Department of Agriculture veterinarians charged
with enforcement of the Federal Animal Welfare Act. These, together with infor-
mation from the National Institutes of Health, were obtained under the Freedom
of Information Act by AWI staff members Louise Wright and Cathy Liss, who
also visited laboratory animal quarters and dealers’ premises in the course of
preparing the text.

 

 




 

Part 11 consists of photographs of animal subjects of experiments, most of which
were taken by Peter Hamilton of Lifeforce and Brad Miller of Buddhists Concerned
for Animals.

Part III is the 1979-1984 update of excerpts from the literature in the following
categories: Eye Manipulations, Burn Experiments, Noble—Collip Drum Trauma,
Radiation Research, Brain Research, Electric Shock Research, Aggression Re-
search, and Stress Experiments.

The review by FRAME (the Fund for Replacement of Animals in Medical
Experiments) noted:

“This worrying, and at times deeply shocking, book from the USA reads like

a catalogue of maltreatment...
“Details are given for 32 of the institutions, 28 of which are universities. Violations
included inadequate caging, overcrowding, failure to remove excrement or dead
animals, the use of rotting and vermin-infested food, failure to treat disease,
generally inadequate veterinary care, the use of stolen dogs, and discrepancies
in records...

 

 

Photo: Peter Hamilton - Lifeforce

A young monkey in a long-term restraint device.




“Some of the examples given lead one to question whether, even if laboratory
animals are properly cared for, much of what is done to them can be judged to
be scientiﬁcally valid or necessary. For example, was it necessary for 36 baboons
to be conditioned to smoke cigarettes in a ‘human—like manner’ for 14 months
to investigate the effects of smoking on atherosclerosis, when the World is full of
human volunteers doing the real thing?

“Some scientists feel that those who question the practice of live animal ex-
perimentation are misguided, ignorant, ill—informed and prejudiced. No such criti—
cism can be levelled at the authors of Beyond the Laboratory Door — the case
is presented in the words of scientists themselves.”

Prohibition of Painful Experiments by High School Students

During the year, both Florida and New Hampshire enacted state laws against
painful experiments by students below the college level. Dr. Barbara Orlans, a
member of AWI’s Scientiﬁc Committee, presented a survey of science fairs
which was published in the Fall 1985 Quarterly documenting mistreatment of
animals at the International Science and Engineering Fair and a number of
regional and local science fairs.

In an effort to provide humane substitutes for cruel experiments by untrained
youths, AWI distributes the 244-page Endangered Species Handbook, which
includes a major section on humane biology projects. The demand for this
publication is so great among teachers that AWI responded this year by publish-
ing a new edition of 10,000 copies and for those who have the 1983 edition
of The Endangered Species Handbook, ajnew 36—page listing of endangered
specres.

CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN
ENDANGERED SPECIES

AWI was represented by Nick Carter and John Brookland of the Environmen-
tal Investigation Agency at the meeting in Lausanne, Switzerland, of the CITES
Technical Committee. Although they met with opposition, Carter and Brookland
succeeded in obtaining committee decisions to recommend that pregnant and
nursing animals not be shipped in commercial trade and that all animals must
be fed and watered in transit. Such seemingly obvious requirements have to
be fought for vigorously because commercial traders in animals for pet stores
and laboratories want to be free from even minimal restrictions. Committee
recommendations also include acclimatization prior to shipment, appropriate
receiving areas in each country’s designated ports of entry for wildlife, and a
checklist for the welfare of animals to be signed off immediately prior to shipment.

Upgrading of the guidelines of the International Air Transport Association is
essential in order to reduce the severe mortality often undergone by wild birds
and mammals in commercial trade. AWI distribution of Injury, Damage to Health
and Cruel Treatment by Carter, Brookland, and Cheryl Hora, and of the exten-
sive statistics compiled by Greta Nilsson, AWI Wildlife Consultant, together with
her book The Bird Business, continues to play an essential role in this work.

5

 

 




 

FARM ANIMALS

Professor Klaus Vestergaard made a lecture tour under the auspices of AWI
in the fall of 1985. He showed a film he made on the behavior of hens, specifically
testing their response to being deprived for two days of the opportunity for dust
bathing. When the hens returned to the deep straw litter which they were accus—
tomed to, they began the most enthusiastic ﬂapping of wing and ﬂuffing of feathers

 

By dustbathing, hens keep their feathers clean and fit. These pictures show the deterioration
of feathers of caged hens.

in the straw. Normally, individual hens feel the urge for a dust bath at different
moments, but after being deprived they all engaged in vigorous dust bathing
behavior, demonstrating how important it is for hens to have this opportunity.
Battery hens are constantly and irrevocably deprived of this method of keeping
their feathers clean and neat. Indeed the feathers of battery hens deteriorate
rapidly, as the illustration shows. Professor Vestergaard, an authority on animal
behavior and an outspoken supporter of animal welfare, was invited to lecture
at the University of Maryland, University of Minnesota, University of California
(Davis), University of Nebraska (Lincoln), Kansas State University, Purdue Uni—
versity, West Virginia University, Texas A & M University, and the US. Department
of Agriculture Meat Animal Research Center (Clay Center, Nebraska).

Dairy Cow Face Branding

On 16 April 1986, Federal Judge Michael A. Telesca issued a preliminary
injunction against hot-iron face-breeding of approximately 1,500,000 dairy cows,
heifers and calves. Marking by this cruel method was being required in a regulation,
LD-249, drawn up by USDA’s Agricultural Stabilizaﬁon and Conservation Service
(ASCS) to identify those animals the Federal Government intended to purchase

'6




from farmers and send to slaughter (or export) in its program to reduce the
overproduction of milk (the “Dairy Termination Program” or “DT ”).

The Rochester and Monroe County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, joined by dairy farmers Douglas Burdick and Mary Jane Burdick, with
expert legal counsel supplied by the Animal Legal Defense Fund and the law
firm of Dutcher, Witt and Sidoti, successfully sued Secretary of Agriculture Richard
E. Lyng and acting administrator of the ASCS, Milton Hertz. As a result of Judge
Telesca’s decision, the ASCS reluctantly allowed farmers to use a painless alter-
native method, freeze-branding, to identify the animals.

In issuing the injunction, Judge Telesca wrote a landmark decision, stating: “It
has long been the public policy of this country to avoid unnecessary cruelty to
animals. Beginning with New York State in 1828, all 50 states and the District
of Columbia had adopted anti-cruelty laws by the year 1913. (Animal Welfare
Insitute, Animals and Their Legal Rights 13—14 (1978).) The Federal Government
likewise has enacted anti-cruelty laws, such as the Twenty-Eight Hour Law, 45
U.S.C. S 71 et seq. (governing transport of livestock by rail), the Humane Methods
of Slaughter Act, 7 U.S.C. S 1901 et seq., and the Animal Welfare Act, 7 U.S.C.
S 2131 et seq. (governing laboratory animals, as well as shipments of animals
and treatment of animals in zoos). The Food Security Act of 1985, the very
statute under whch the DTP was created, stengthened the safeguards of the
Animal Welfare Act . . . It is evident to me, as it should have been to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, that the type of branding espoused in LD-249 constitutes
cruelty to animals. If the ASCS had been as concerned with cruelty to animals
as they now claim to be, LD-249 would never have been adopted. The testimony
before me clearly establishes that freeze-branding is a viable alternative to hot-iron
branding since it causes less pain to cows and accomplishes all of the objectives
outlined by defendants. Had defendants truly been concerned with preventing
unnecessary cruelty to animals, they would have at least allowed farmers the
option of either method.”

The Animal Welfare Institute was offered several opportunities in Minnesota,
a leading agricultural state, to discuss the need for reform of factory farm methods
of livestock rearing. Diane Halverson participated in the University of Minnesota’s
Department of Animal Science Advisory Council, presented AWI concerns to the
Minnesota Forum for Animal Agriculture (a consortium of agricultural organiza-
tions), and was a panel member for a University of Minnesota School of Public
Health series on the interrelationships of people and animals.

A three-day workshop was organized by the Agricultural Research Institute to
evaluate agricultural—science policy and propose future policy. Diane Halverson
was one of 100 participants invited from federal agencies, Congress, businesses
involved with agriculture, universities and individuals and organizations with ag—
ricultural interests or expertise. This workshop was designed to surface ideas and
was not a consensus conference. Among proposals emerging was one put forward
by Ms. Halverson requiring the development of systems of animal husbandry
that provide for the well-being of livestock and poultry.

7

 

 




 

 

 

Scientists now identify individual whales by
their flukes. This is Digit.

 

WHALES

On 6 August 1985, the US. Court of Appeals upheld the ruling by District
Court Judge Charles H. Richey that Japan must be certiﬁed for killing whales
protected by the International Whaling Commission and that Secretary of Com-
merce Malcolm Baldrige and Secretary of State George Shultz be enjoined from
failing to invoke the sanctions against Japan called for under the Packwood-Mag—
nuson Amendment. A second en banc decision by the Court of Appeals again
supported Judge Richey’s pro-whale ruling. The government, in company with
the Japan Whaling Association, appealed the case to the Supreme Court.

‘ On 13 January, the Supreme Court agreed to hear the appeal, and on 30
May, William Rogers, former Under Secretary of State, presented the case for
the whales on behalf of nine organizations including the Animal Welfare Institute. *
Mr. Rogers is a partner in the prestigious law ﬁrm Arnold and Porter which carried
the case through the courts pro bono.

International Whaling Commission Meeting

At the 1985 meeting of the International Whaling Commission, the minke
whales of the northeast Atlantic were put under protection. Norwegian scientists
agreed with this reclassiﬁcation. However, their government did not. Iceland and
South Korea proposed massive whale killings under the aegis of “scientiﬁc re-
search. ” The result would be the sale of tens of millions of dollars worth of whale
meat to Japan. Japan and Norway said they would seek to have their coastal
whaling deﬁned as “siubstistence whaling.” The ﬁght to save the whales must
continue with vigor.

* Despite the clarity of Mr. Rogers’ presentation, the Court voted 5-4 to reverse
the three previous rulings.

8

an."

~W g"

I...




>.

C

‘ [’9‘ A,- i__

~§§9E kw ‘

”V... ;

STEEL-JAW TRAPS

The biggest beaver ever seen has been creating support for an end to steel-jaw
traps. Entirely covered with fake fur, “Betsy Beaver,” a 24-foot-tall inﬂatable,
has been touring the country propelled by volunteer Peter Millington, a veteran
of campaigns to save the whales and the kangaroos. John Perry, whose sculptures
of whales, dolphins, and eagles are widely on view in gift shops coast to coast,
designed Betsy Beaver. Television, radio, and newspapers have given a warm
reception to the gigantic beaver, and Millington has been awarded prizes for
Betsy’s appearance on parade. A front-page, full—color picture of the beaver at
the Mississippi State Capitol building was followed by a hard-hitting column by
Joe Rogers in the Jackson Clarion-Ledger entitled “Defending Steel—Jaw Traps
is a Tough Job——And I Won’t Do It.”

 

Betsy Beaver on parade, Albany, NY.

 




 

@ THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

@ QUARTERLY

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 30,000 individuals
and organizations including public libraries, deans of medical and veterinary
schools, teachers, scientists, and AWI members. Among the subjects covered
during the year were:

SUMMER 1985 VOL. 34, NO. 2

The lead story concerned the laboratory animal bills introducted by Senator Dole
and Congressman Brown -— see main section of this report. In a separate article
a new NIH policy on the care and use of laboratory animals was shown to bring
scant comfort to the animals. The article listed several strengthening provisions
contained in the proposed policy — on which public comment had been invited
a year previously — but omitted from the final version.

Endangered Species CITES. Coverage of the biennial conference — held this
time in Buenos Aires -— focused in two aspects. The story titled The Wildlife Trade
War dealt with the increasing polarization of the CITES membership between
those who judge the various issues by the light of the conservation rule—book
and those whose uppermost concern is to “legitimize” exploitation. In Buenos
Aires the would-be exploiters, led by Canada, voted as a bloc on a whole range
of issues in defiance of conservation principles.

A separate article by Greta Nilsson, who attended the conference, discussed
issues arising from two AWI-sponsored publications — the Environmental Inves—
tigation Agency’s Injury, Damage to Health and Cruel Treatment (see main section
of report) and her own Importation of Birds into the United States which docu-
ments the horrific mortality of birds entering this country from (mainly) Latin
America. Both publications were distributed to CITES delegates.

Migratory Birds: Mass Slaughter. In Mediterranean lands there was no let-up
in the spring slaughter of migratory birds journeying (so they fondly imagined) to
their breeding grounds in northern Europe. Greece, France and Italy continued
to offend against an EEC Directive forbidding the killing of these birds. Butchered

for “fun” were hundreds of millions of small songsters and large numbers of raptors
and other hard-pressed species.

10




FALL 1985 VOL 34, NO. 3

Laboratory Animals: Science Fairs. Year after year science fairs continue to
permit (and hence to encourage) gross hurt to animals by high—school students
undertaking so-called scientiﬁc projects. The worst offender is the International
Science and Engineering Fair. Where vertebrate animals are chosen as subjects
(which is normally the case), there is a four out of five chance that they will be
injured, suffer pain or die. As Barbara Orlans’ documentation of ISEF’s 1985 fair
made sickeningly plain, the projects are for the most part crudely designed and
cruelly executed. The coupling, under the aegis of science, of maltreatment to
animals with the de-sensitizing of impressionable schoolchildren is a disgrace.

Incidental Catch: Gillnets and Debris. The huge “accidental” killing of ﬁsh,
seabirds and marine mammals was the subject of two related articles. In the North
Paciﬁc more than 1600 ﬁshing boats from Japan, Taiwan and South Korea set
some 20,000 miles of gillnet nightly to catch salmon, squid and billﬁsh. These
monoﬁlament nets, stretching up to 35 miles, are decimating salmon stocks and
entangling (often in discarded “ghost net” fragments) tens of thousands of porpoises
and fur seals every year. More than a million seabirds a year are also being killed.
At a Senate hearing on the problem conservationists joined with ﬁshermen to
urge a ban on driftnets throughout the North Pacific.

Another deadly hazard to marine life comes from the relentless build-up of
non—degradable garbage swilling around in the oceans. The sea receives 6.4
million tons of litter every year from shipping — including four-and-a-half million
plastic containers 0 week. Small wonder that the citizens of Oregon ﬁlled over
2400 ZO—gallon sacks with beach litter in just one day!

Farm Animals: Pigs. The results of a unique piece of research at the University
of Tennessee into rival methods of pig-raising —- pasture, partial conﬁnement and
total conﬁnement — make gratifying reading. For they go far to conﬁrm what
animal welfarists have long contended —- that conﬁnement is not just a rotten way
of treating animals, it is an inefficient way of making money. Total conﬁnement
was shown to be highly expensive (requiring a premium market price for its
pigs in order to be proﬁtable) and —— surprisingly —— only marginally labor-saving.

In a separate article a consultant to a German aid program in Mexico told of
how he had successfully adapted the pig-raising method pioneered by Alex Stolba
in Edinburgh to a tropical dime and a rural economy. Halfway between subsis—
tence framing and intensive rearing, the method is built around the natural be—
havior and needs of the pig. It has the potential to enrich peasant societies without
disrupting their way of life. '

Cage Birds: New York. The state’s Wild Bird Act prohibits the sale of exotic,
wild-caught birds. The bill received the Govemor’s signature in August 1984 with
the new law due to become effective 15 months later. But it nearly didn’t happen.

11

 




 

 

,,, ,wr‘.,__.————A--— ~~ ,

Eighty percent of Japan’s
ivory is illicitly procured.

 

Photo: IUCN

The pet industry attempted to repeal the Act by substituting a bill purporting to
regulate the trade and masquerading as a humane measure. The New York
Assembly passed th pet-industry bill but happily it was defeated in the Senate
Committee to which it was referred. The margin of victory? One vote!

WINTER 1985/86 VOL. 34, NO. 4

Laboratory Animals: Pride of place went to an historical event — the triumphal
passage of the laboratory animals bill which at last, after many years of hard
struggle, provides lab animals with proper safeguards against abuse. The Confer-
ence Report was reprinted in full.

Further good news on this front came in January when NIH, for the first time
ever, started making unannounced inspections of research facilities. As a result
Columbia University was cited for deficiences in four main areas and lost* its
federal funding — amounting to several million dollars — for all animal studies
except rodents.

A ﬁnal piece of good news was that the notorious head-injury experiments on
baboons at the University of Pennsylvania have ceased. Following an enquiry
into charges of abuse of these primates USDA found the University guilty and
imposed a fine of $4000, and NIH withdrew the funding which had paid for the
baboon project.

* This loss, however, was temporary. The funds were restored by NIH a few
months later after some improvements were made.

12

 

 

 




 

Trapping: Steel-Jaw Leghold. That the steel-jaw trap is a vicious menace not
only to widelife but also to human beings was proved (yet again) by an appalling
accident to a 14-year-old boy. Playing on a railroad embankment his right foot
went into a steel-jaw trap; four toes had to be amputated. Meanwhile a bill, HR
1809, to outlaw these traps nationwide still languishes in Congress despite the
support of more than 100 Representatives.

Endangered Species: Elephants. Japan promised at the last CITES conference
to cease trading in protected wildlife. Yet, Japanese imports of raw ivory, 80%
of it illicitly procured, show no signs of dramatic decline. In the ﬁrst half of 1985
imports were running at only slightly below the level of 1982, the year which
heralded a sudden surge in the tonnage of ivory entering Japan.

Lemurs. Born in 1983 at the Duke Primate Center in North Carolina, Chiclette,
the collared lemur, weighed in at just one ounce! Now herself a mother, Chiclette’s
descendants will one day, it is hoped, be returned to the lemur’s natural home,
the forests of Madagascar. If, that is, any forest still remains there — and the lemur
traps are gone — and the captive—breeding program at Duke continues to prosper.

Black-Footed Ferrets. “I think the species has a ﬁfty—ﬁfty chance for survival,”
says Tim Clark, a biologist and ferret expert. The very few survivors from the
only known colony have been taken from the wild in' Wyoming for captive
breeding. The species has already come back from the dead once. Presumed
extinct in 1973, the Wyoming colony was discovered in 1981. But it would be
unwise to rely on a repeat performance.

SPRING 1986 VOL. 35, NO. 1

Trapping: Steel-Jaw Leghold. The coast-to-coast journey of 22-foot inﬂatable
Betsy Beaver, described earlier in this report, was the main story. Betsy, as the
center spread made plain, grabbed headlines wherever she went, along with
plenty of up—beat comment.

In a separate article the spotlight was on Australia. Today’s steel—jaw dingo
traps are of ther same diabolical design as those of 100 years ago. That dingoes
commonly prey on sheep and calves has been exposed as a myth by an immensely
thorough government study — but the myth lives on.

Farm Animals: Hot-Iron Face-Branding. Prominence was given to the need-
less savagery of this method of marking dairy cattle -— see main section of report.

Turtles: Salmonella. Infants abroad are succumbing to salmonella poisoning
from handling pet turtles imported from the US. A 1983 study in Puerto Rico
found all 18 pet shops investigated were selling infected baby turtles. Domestic

13

 




sales of turtles have been banned since the early 19705. The ban should be
extended to exports —— which would also beneﬁt the species. Around 100,000
adult turtles are taken from the wild every year by the baby-turtle breeders.

Kangaroos. Myth rather than science has legitimized Australia’s mass slaughter
of kangaroos, says the Australian Committee of IUCN, following an enquiry
conducted with government wildlife agencies. But commercial interests continue
to sway government policy. The slaughter goes on.

Dogs: Japan. In Japan truckloads of dogs, many of them purebreds, are reg—
ularly dumped at the back of medical colleges and teaching hospitals, just for the
cost of transport. Dogs are the cheapest experimental animals to obtain, house
and feed — cheaper even than rats and mice — for once a dog becomes any sort
of problem to its owner, the usual solution is to get rid of it. Fieldworkers for the
Japan Animal Welfare Society report widespread ignorance on the most basic of
matters — food, shelter, exercise. Gross ill-treatment is common. JAWS has cam—
paigned to dissuade breeders from exporting to Japan and European exports
have fallen sharply — by 1984 to just 322 animals. But that same year, Japan
took 7348 dogs from the US.

Meetings Attended and Speeches Made by
AW! Representatives.
USDA Veterinary Services Training Session for US. Department of Agriculture Inspectors,

‘ July 10, 1985, Hyattsville, MD. Christine Stevens spoke on effective enforcement of the
Animal Welfare Act.

lntemational Whaling Commission meeting, July 15-19, 1985, Bournemouth, England.

University of Virginia Medical Center, September 25, 1985, Charlottesville, VA. Christine
Stevens participated in a panel, “Animal Rights Movement: Shackles on Research?”

National Research Council meetings of the Committee on the Use of Laboratory Animals
in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, Washington, DC. Christine Stevens participated
as a committee member. September 30, 1985; December 20, 1986; February 11-12,
1986; May 2-3, 1986.

Meeting of the Association of Professors of Medicine, October 30, 1985, Washington,
DC. Christine Stevens spoke on “Animals in Research: Problems and Solutions.”

University of Minnesota Department of Animal Science Advisory Council meeting,
November 12, 1985, St. Paul, MN. Diane Halverson participated as Council member.

Meeting of PRIM&R (Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research), November 18,
1985, Boston, MA. Christine Stevens spoke on “Proposed Legislative Initiatives in the
1985-86 Congress.”

Meeting of Monitor lntemational, December 6, 1985, Washington, DC.
14

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Meeting of Monitor, USA, January 14, 1986, Washington, DC.

USDA Veterinary Services Training Course on Record Keeping for Clerks, January 14,
1986, Hyattsville, MD. Christine Stevens, Cathy Liss, and Louise Wright spoke on “USDA
Record Keeping from the Humane Point of View. ”

The Environmental Goals of the 1980’s, January 22, 1986, Washington, DC. Senator
John Chafee invited the heads of 15 groups, including AWI, to take part.

lntemational Whaling Commission lnteragency Meetings, October 17, 1985; January 22,
March 17, May 16, 1986, Washington, DC.

Minnesota Forum for Animal Agriculture, January 28, 1986, Roseville, MN. Diane Halver—
son presented farm animal welfare concerns and goals to representatives of agricultural
organizations.

Ofﬁce of Technology Assessment Report Brieﬁng, January 31, 1986, Washington, D. C.

USDA meeting with industry groups, February 13, 1986, Hyattsville, MD. Budgets FY
1985, 1986, 1987.

University of Minnesota School of Public Health class, “Perspectives: Interrelationships
of People and Animals in Society today,” February 20, 1986, Minneapolis, MN. Diane
Halverson discussed farm animal welfare as panel member.

USDA Veterinary Services Training Session for new Veterinary Medical Ofﬁcers, February
25, 1986, Hyattsville, MD. Christine Stevens and Cathy Liss spoke on “Humane Consid-
erations Regarding the Inspection of Research Facilities.”

USDA Veterinary Services Training Session for Veterinary Medical Ofﬁcers, March 11,
1986, College Park, MD. Christine Stevens, Cathy Liss, and Louise Wright spoke on
“The Animal Protection Organization’s Concept of Inspecting Research Facilities.”

Canadian-American WSPA meeting, March 13, 1986, Washington, DC.
USDA Training Session for Investigators, March 25, 1986, Beltsville, MD.

Agricultural Science Policy Workshop, April 29-May 1, 1986, Wayzata, MN. Diane Hal-
verson participated in Agricultural Research Institute workshop evaluating and proposing
U.S. agricultural policy.

ASPCA Awards Luncheon, May 5, 1986, New York City. Christine Stevens received the
“Board of Directors’ Award for Humane Excellence.”

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, California Branch, Annual Meeting,
May 5-9, San Diego, CA. Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, Alternatives to
Pain in Experiments on Animals, and AWI listings of publications available were distributed.

National Alliance for Animal Legislation, June 21-22, 1986, Cathy Liss spoke on banning
steel—jaw leghold traps. Christine Stevens spoke on regulations under the Animal Welfare

Act .

15

 




 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Ofﬁce Box 3650

Washington, DC. 20007

 

Scientiﬁc Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.V.M. - Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.V.M. - Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain

— Bangladesh
Angela King - United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru - Kenya
David Ricardo - Canada
Godofredo Stutzin - Chile
Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan
Klaus Vestergaard - Denmark

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Ofﬁcers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Jessie Despard, Publications Coordinator

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for Livestock and Poultry Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Laura Swedberg, Administrative
Coordinator Assistant

Cathy Liss, Research Associate Louise Wright, Research Assistant

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Victor Perez, Clerical Assistant

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing income
tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for the
general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s much-needed
work depends upon such support. Bequests to the Institute will help guarantee the
continuance of its work to protect animals. Please remember the Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest.
I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of dollars
(or if other property, describe the property).

 

 




SUBBENI ASSEIS
Cash $ 15501
Miscellaneous receivables 7287
Inventories of salable media materials 18950
Investments in marketable securities -
at values as of dates donated
(approximate market - $192209) 150131

Iota]. Current Assets $ 201919

LHHER ASSEIS
Fixtures and equipment - Net accumulated
depreciation of $3754
Deposits

IDEAL ASSETS

LlABlLlIlES AND EQND BALANSES

CUBEENI LIABILIIES
Accounts payable $ 22247
Employess payroll taxes withheld 3740
Loan payable — Institute of Delphinid Research _10000

I I J 2 ! I' I'J'I'

BEND BALANSES
TQIAL LIABILIIIES AﬂD EQND BALANQES

BORCK AND MENSCH
CERTIFIED Pueuc ACCOUNTANTS

 




ANIMAL HELEABE INSIIIHIE
EHEEEMENI QE EUNEIIQNAL EXBENSES
XEAR ENDEDnlﬂNE 301 1236

p b1 ' mioe' L———— i 5e ' C Wes
u }C Management Fo
Educatlon Save the and Fund rgﬁgfngear

andlrojeots Jhales. _I_Q__T_A_.L_ _§ener_al_ Raising lune_3_Ql_l}2&§

Salaries
Payroll taxes
Medical insurance
Advertising
Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies
Printing: General
Endangered Species Handbook
Beyond the Laboratory Door
Other AWI publications
T-shirts, bumper stickers, buttons and posters
Research and writing
Grants
Conferences, meetings and travel
Postage, mailing and addressing costs
(except for Quarterlies)
Stationery, duplicating and office supplies
Professional services
Memberships and subscriptions
Acquisition of books and other educational materials
Schweitzer Medal
Consultant fees
Miscellaneous

Total Expenses Before Depreoiation
Depreciation of Fixtures and equipment

IQIAL EXBENSES

$ 76538
7190

31008
8389
17722
20352
3976

19894
16020
12060

16555
6984
6109
4042

93
9448
_____l§§

256538
____l§10

M

$ 17610
1462

23030
4
8159

5252

700
510

6098
1211

3283

$

94148
8652

23030
31012
16548
17722
20352

3976

5252
19894
16720
12570

22653
8195

9392
4042

93
9448

____158
323857
___1§ZQ

2:121:12;

$ 29693
2548
4559

3456

$ 5856
541

$ 129697
11741
4559
23030
31012
20004
17722
20352
3976
5400
19894
16720
12570

27761
18973
9320
9772
4042
93
9448

_.___564

396650

___3_11_8
Llﬂﬁlﬁﬂ

 




1 9 8 6
Hnrestrigtsd Rgstrigted Total
EHBLIQ SHIEQBI AﬂD REYLNHE
Public Support:
Contributions - individuals,

members and others $ 234883 $71461 $306344
Iota; Eublic Support 234883 21451 lﬂﬁﬁéi

Revenue:
Memberships 42416
Income on investments 11363
Sale of publications,

reprints and films 14375
Income from interest

in partnership ’ 938
Miscellaneous and gains on

sale of securities -

Total Revenue .62Q22
Total Support and Revenue 393315
7 EXEENSES
Program Services:

Public education 256474 258408
Save The Whales -

Total EIQgLﬂm Services
Supporting Services:

Management and general
Fund raising

(18130) (6202) (24332)
rump 92999995 A: Bﬂglﬂﬂlﬂg 99 XEAB 231914 129414) 292999
rump BALANEES Al 999 99 XEAR $212244 illAﬁléL $119299

BORCK AND MENSCH
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

 




tute
1987

0
Laboratory monkey

al Welfare Inst

m

An

Thirty-Sixth Annual Report
1 July 1986 to 30 June

 

 

 

 

 




WHALES

The campaign to save the whales from extinction took an upward turn
when the Soviet Union announced in May 1987 that its last remaining fac-
tory ship had been converted into a conventional fishing vessel and that
no further commercial whaling would be conducted under its ﬂag.

At the International Whaling Commission meeting in Bournemouth,
England in June, further progress was made. U. S. Commissioner Anthony
Calio had carefully consulted for months with other member nations
developing a resolution to establish serious scientific criteria for the per-
mits the treaty allows nations to issue for research purposes. Severe abuse
of the provision by several whaling nations threatened to destroy the mor—
atorium on commercial whaling passed by a vote of 25-7 at the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission meeting.

' ”I‘ZIVIV'IJHILI'HIW-w"'1”""".‘-‘1’.‘~"'1’.""'HIH'Ivv'rg,Wu,,IQ‘,'Q“"HH' {I Y
W '~ ACOOIZDNG o OUR ) .
‘7!“ Q ._ , W
‘ejull/Z/l’illllliim r 1 \Q * . 2555mm maze ,
‘ ‘= ' 1. ARE 875‘ Less

 

W” .. I
/" '7WW%H ' I

« 1'... {‘21
WW

© Honolulu Advertiser—Dick Adair

W
. a; Q
.

.l ’
Nil.“

.\ t .
.7. . 1'2."
.
‘ I‘.
-W7¢
‘\ All?”
1,",4»

 

 

 

Japan, Iceland, and South Korea had all approved “scientiﬁc permits”
for their whalers, although none of these proposals were endorsed by the
International Whaling Commission’s Scientific Committee. After success—
ful passage of the U. S. resolution, the commissioners considered each of
them separately. Despite the vigorous protests of the whalers, not a single
one of the proposals passed the Commission’s scrutiny. Instead, the Inter-

 

. *A US/Iceland bilateral agreement made in September allowed the killing of 20 sei
whales, half the number previously planned. Icelandic scientists and demonstra-
tors protested the kill.

2

 

 




national Whaling Commission recommended that Japan, Iceland, and
Korea revoke the permits.

Korea agreed, but Japan and Iceland displayed extreme anger. During
the period covered by this report the final outcome was undecided.*

The Supreme Court reversed (5 to 4) District Court and Appeals Court
decisions that the Secretary of Commerce and Secretary of State must
enforce the law to protect the whales from Japanese Whalers. The decision
was announced June 30, 1986. In March 1987, Japan announced its plans to
kill 50 sperm whales and 825 minke whales each year for the next ten years
for “scientific research.” Since the number of whales was roughly 40% of
those killed under the rubric of “commercial whaling” the year before,
cries of fraud were heard. The Supreme Court had been led to believe in
“the certainty of Japan’s future compliance,”** as the majority opinion
stated. But the minority opinion, written by Justice Marshall, wisely
pointed out, “I see no indication that Japan has pledged to cease commer-
cial whaling by 1988 . . . or to dismantle its commercial whaling industry,”
and he wrote, “It is uncontested here that Japan’s taking of whales has
been ﬂagrant, consistent and substantial.” Those words are as true today
as when they were written.

LABORATORY ANIMALS

Parts I and II of the proposed regulations under the Dole/Brown
amendments to the Animal Welfare Act, the Improved Standards for Lab-
oratory Animals, were published in the Federal Register March 31, 1987.
They represent the experience gained by the U. S. Department of Agricul-
ture’s Veterinary Services over more than 20 years of administering the
Act. These are the most carefully and thoroughly prepared rules for
enforcement of the federal government’s principal animal welfare legisla-
tion that have ever been issued. Their high quality, however, has not
spared them from intense criticism by organizations that fought enact-
ment of the legislation. Quite the contrary: issuance of ﬁnal regulations
has been repeatedly delayed. Thousands of comments have been received
by USDA.

Part III of the regulations, which will include requirements for exercise
for laboratory dogs and for the psychological well—being of captive pri-
mates, is eagerly awaited.

It is not unusual for lobbyists who failed to block Congressional action
for animal welfare to shift to delay of regulations as a fall—back strategy.
For example, Lacey Act regulations requiring humane conditions for wild
birds and mammals entering the United States were held up for no less
than six years (1981-1987) in the Department of the Interior!

This must not be permitted to happen with the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals amendments that Senator Bob Dole and Congress-

 

**On September 23, 1987 the coalition of whale protective groups, including AWI,
petitioned for a reappraisal of the case under Rule 60B. The case was assigned
to Judge Richey of the U. S. District Court.

 




 

 

: ‘3
Mn “mug?
I?" , sf:
- I:

©Lz'feforce—Peter Hamilton

 
   

“”3

‘Laboratory dog *
man George E. Brown, Jr. succeeded in enacting into law at the end of
1985. The importance of this legislation for animal protection is thrown
into bold relief by the fact that the National Association for Biomedical
Research which wrote dozens of proposals for weakening amendments to
the Dole/ Brown bill in a last-ditch attempt to undercut protection for lab-
oratory animals before the bill was passed, has now submitted a‘118—page
criticism of the proposed regulations.

One of the important provisions of the 'law~a_sa; enacted is the require-
ment that institutions appoint to their Animal Care and Use Committee a
member who is not afﬁliated with the institution and who “is intended to
provide representation for general community interests in the proper care
and treatment of animals.” To assist theseﬁommittee members, this year
AWI published a six-page annotated b1 aphy containing references

on computer-assisted methods of avoiding? "bation of tests and experi-
ments, training courses f2. ’ and animal care person-
nel, psychological well—bei..o ._ “Mes, :matives, guidelines, codes,

laws, and regulations.

It was first distributed at the March meeting of Public Responsibility in
Medicine and Research (PRIM&R) in Boston where each of the more than
200 participants also received a copy of AWI’s Beyond the Laboratory
Door and Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals. The books and
bibliography were also made available at the June conference of the Sci-
entists Center for Animal Welfare (SCAW) in Chicago. AWI’s president,
Christine Stevens, was a speaker at both meetings.

During the course of the year, she took part in a series of meetings of the
National Research Council Committee on the Use of Laboratory Animals
in Biomedical and Behavioral Research. The ﬁnal document had not been
completed in the period covered byﬂw “"nnual report.

i
l

1 x .
4 l .

l

 

 

 




. is

 

 

WILD BIRD TRADE

Capture and shipment of wild birds in the world’s largest exporting
country, Senegal, was documented by Dave Currey and his co- -workers of
the Environmental Investigation Agency, with financial assistance from
the Animal Welfare Institute. A video ﬁlm showing cruel capture, callous

A few of the
millions of
Senegalese

wild birds
that die to
enrich bird
dealers.

 

© Dave Currey/EIA

 

\\ A ..

handling and neglect of the birds, estimated to number 20 million each
year, is now available thanks to the Environmental Investigation Agency’s
research. Half of those birds die even prior to their export to the United .
States, Europe, and Japan.

The Trade in Live Wildlife, Mortality and Transport Conditions was
published in June 1987 in time for distribution at the biennial meeting of
the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora in Ottawa* and is available from AWI. This is the second
report prepared by the Environmental Investigation Agency with the
assistance of the Animal Welfare Institute. The first one, known to many
AWI members, was Injury, Damage to Health and Cruel Treatment,
which began with a preface by Sir Peter Scott.

A bill banning importation for sale by the pet trade of exotic, wild-
caught birds was favorably reported from the New Jersey Assembly Com-
mittee to which it had been referred, and further action is expected in the
near future. A similar bill is pending in the Pennsylvania Legislature, The
New York legislation, on'which these bills are based, has withstood a court
test mounted by commercial bird dealers. Final action was taken this year.

At the time of the EIA investigation, U. S. bird traders who purchased
from the biggest Senegal bird exporter included, according to the director
Miami, and MPM Birds m 447ml,” ‘ ‘ Angeles. Reportedly,
each of these eight clients was nuymg an average 01 70 cases of birds every
month, each case containing between 80 and 100 pairs of birds.

 

 

*July 12—24, 1987

 




 

 

FARM ANIMALS

Important progress for farm animals in Europe was called for by the
European Parliament. AWI has been bringing useful scientific develop—
ments made in European universities to the attention of their counter-
parts in the United States. Over the past five years, AWI has sponsored
lecture tours by four outstanding European professors, and this year
Diane Halverson, AWI’s Research Associate for Livestock and Poultry,
spent a month at the University of Zurich working with pig families in the
special environment designed by Professor Alex Stolba and 'Professor
David Wood-Gush.

Diane Halverson

 

_ ~ ..... \,, » _ _ .,
Professors Stolba and Wood-Gush observed that in a natural environ-
ment, “bonds of kinship” remain between a sow and her offspring,
even after the birth of subsequent litters. The alpha sow of this Family
Pen unit rests against the wall. One of her adult daughters lies next to
her while piglets from a younger generation are close at hand.

Members of the European Parliament, the consultative body of the
European Communities, have shown themselves to be staunch advocates
of animal welfare. They have voted unanimously (150 to nil with just two
abstentions) in favor of a tough report which calls on the 12 countries of
the EEC:

0 to ban the keeping of veal calves in individual crates;

0 to provide calves with a diet containing roughage and adequate iron;

0 to prohibit deprivation of social contact among calves after six weeks of
age;

0 to phase out battery cages within 10 years;

0 to set minimum standards for rearing hogs which should include a re-
quirement that sows be provided straw;

0 to discontinue the close confinement of pregnant sows in either individ-
ual stalls or tethers;

0 to prohibit routine mutilations such as the tail-docking and castration of
piglets;

0 to prohibit weaning of piglets before three weeks of age;




 

0 to provide a non-slatted, or non-perforated lying and resting area for
weaned pigs being reared for market;

0 to introduce a regulation making 24 hours the maximum time for ani-
mals in transit to be without water, food and rest.

The report now goes before the European Commission. Effectively this
means that the 12 Agricultural Ministers, bearing in mind Parliament’s
unequivocally firm Views, must reach a decision. They have promised to
do so before the end of the year.

In the U. 8., however, a proposal was circulated which would reinforce
the use of veal crates, sow stalls, battery cages, and other practices
rejected by the European Parliament. AWI offered critical comments to
significantly alter and improve the document before a final version is
released in the Fall of 1987.

ANIMAL PATENTING

In April, AWI joined eleven animal welfare organizations and the Founda-
tion on Economic Trends in a nationwide coalition to protest the decision
of the U. S. Patent Office to extend patent laws to include all higher forms
of animal life, except Homo sapiens. The coalition filed a petition with the
U. S. Patent Office requesting that the agency immediately suspend its
newly stated policy to allow patenting of all non-human animals which are
“modiﬁed, altered or in any way changed through genetic engineering
technology.” The coalition expanded to include family farm, environmen-
tal, sustainable agriculture and other public interest groups. The Patent
Office has stated that no patents for genetically altered animals will be
issued before Spring 1988. Legislation calling for a two-year moratorium
on the patenting of animals is pending.

TRAPPING

Early in 1987 the Animal Welfare Institute conducted a survey of opin-
ion on the steel-jaw trap by practicing veterinarians. Questionnaires were
sent to veterinarians in seven states: Texas, Michigan, New York, Louisi—
ana, North Dakota, Washington, and Illinois. Seventy-nine percent of the
932 veterinarians who responded are opposed to use of steel-jaw traps.

Non—target animals which have been caught in steel-jaw traps and
treated (if they did not die as a result of their injuries) include bald and
golden eagles, great horned owls, red-tailed hawks, calves, fawns, deer,
colts, lambs, kids, goats, geese, and ducks.

Following are excerpts from statements made by the veterinarians:

“Usually lesions involve deep lacerations through soft tissue and saw-
ing-type lesions on the bone . . .”

“Excruciating pain for the animal . almost guaranteed amputation. ”

)

“Amputation or euthanasia necessary in all cases.’

“Fractured toes, tearing muscles and tendons, shin badly abraded,
infection. ”

 

 




“Most had to be euthanized. Amputations of limbs of many, after gan-
grene had set in.”

“. . . Fractures are common. In cold weather the affected limb often
freezes before the animal is found ( if found) and of course this compli-
cates an already serious injury. Two years ago 38 of these traps were
found set along one of the creeks in the area! This was a semi-residen-
tial, semi-rural area with plenty of wandering pets.”

“Severe soft tissue damage, fractures, abscesses, gangrene.”
“The bones were broken, the wounds were infected and some were mag-
got infested.”

“Most have had permanent injury either to bone, tendon, nerve, or all
three. Most have had amputations for lack of blood supply to the distal
area.”

“The metacarpals were fractured, the wound was open and infected.
The cat had been shot between the eyes and her lower jaw was
shattered. ”

“Large German Shepherd had her tongue cut off by the trap. The dog
had to be euthanized.”

“Usually gangrene with resultant loss of affected limb, also mouth and
tooth damage, shock and emotional trauma.”

“. . . multiple surgeries and months of bandage changes.”

“Leghold traps inflict some of the worst, ugliest strangulation type leg
wounds I see. I cannot imagine any greater terror for an animal than to
be captured in one of these devices.”

© Observer—Dave May

meww‘
.zm

w.» ».

 




THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 20,000
individuals and organizations including public libraries, deans of medical
and veterinary schools, teachers, scientists, and AWI members. Among
the subjects covered during the year were:

SUMMER 1986, VOL. 35, NO.2

Whaling Two related issues were covered. One dealt with the Supreme
Court’s 5-4 reversal of lower court judgments which had called for the acti-
vation of the Packwood-Magnuson Amendment against Japan (and conse-
quent loss of fishing rights) for ﬂouting the IWC commercial whaling ban.
The Supreme Court’s ruling, it was pointed out, stood on invisibly narrow
grounds, underpinned by what the majority report called “the certainty of
Japan’s future compliance.” The article lambasted this assumption as
naive—a View borne out by Japan’s subsequent bid to renege on its “deal”
with the Administration.

Also dealt with were the attempts by Norway and Iceland to avoid a
US. boycott on fish products by continuing whaling under the guise of sci-
ence.

New Zealand: Sheep The lifting by New Zealand of its ban on the ship-
ping of live sheep to the Middle East was deplored. Thousands of animals
die during the long, slow voyage through some of the hottest regions of the
world, and on arrival survivors are butchered under laws which forbid pre—
stunning.

Migratory Birds: Mediterranean The center spread carried a most
cheering report from Friends of the Earth, Cyprus, claiming that world
pressure had finally compelled the Cypriot government to put a stop to
the indiscriminate hunting of migratory birds. Unfortunately, as reported
in the next Quarterly, the cease-ﬁre which had held throughout 1985 and
Spring 1986 was rudely shattered in the Fall. The slaughter then was one
of the heaviest for years.

Marine Litter Entanglement in discarded fishing gear and other plastic
waste is drowning enormous numbers of turtles, birds, and marine mam-
mals-—seals in particular. The U. S. is a prime offender. The laws against
wholesale dumping should be enforced, and the existing technology for
making plastic degradable should be applied extensively.

 




 

 

Kangaroos In the wake of an Australian Tribunal finding that the 1985
kill of kangaroos in Queensland had vastly exceeded the quota, Australia
banned exports of all wildlife products until such time as wildlife manage-
ment programs had been reformed to the “highest possible standards.”
Cynics suggested this wouldn’t take long. They were right. Just three
weeks later, the programs were adjudged to be “in good shape” and the
ban was lifted.

FALL/WINTER 1986/1987, VOL. 35, NOS. 3 & 4

World Bank The appalling environmental cost of World Bank aid pro—
grams was scrutinized in some detail. Rainforest development in
Amazonia, transmigration in Indonesia, dam building in India, beef pro—
duction in Botswana—-all these very different projects have certain things
in common. They are conceived on a monumental scale; their social and
ecological consequences have been largely disregarded; they are funded
by the World Bank. However, statements from the new President of the
Bank, Mr. Barber Conable, give cause for hope. What is now needed is
swift translation of words into deeds.

Trapping The trapping lobby suffered two small but significant reverses
in their tireless defense of the steel-jaw trap. After protracted battle, Suf—
folk County, New York, has banned the trap, and New Jersey trappers
have failed in their bid to overturn the 1984 ban. A separate article (which
had ﬁrst appeared in The New York Times) highlighted the waste and
cruelty perpetrated by this “throwback to barbarism.”

Timber Agreement After interminable haggling, the International Tim—
ber Trade Organization has finally acquired a headquarters (Yokohama,
Japan), a Director and some minimal funding. Having as a prime objective
“the sustainable utilization and conservation of tropical forests,” the
Organization is potentially of great value. Whether it turns out this way,
the future will show.

Sea Turtles Developed by the National Marine Fisheries Service, the
Turtle Excluder Device, TED, reduces capture of sea turtles by 97%.
Since all five species of turtle in U. S. Atlantic and Gulf waters are either
endangered or threatened, and since TEDs actually increase the value of
the shrimp catch, the Service is considering making the TED mandatory.
Under the current voluntary arrangement, more than 99% of the 14,000
trawlers in the U. S. shrimp ﬂeet operate without it.

Rhinos and Elephants In 1981 the rhino population of the Central Afri-
can Republic was the largest in West AfriCa. Four years later, an aerial

survey discovered no rhinos at all. Of elephants seen, two-thirds were
dead—killed by poachers from Sudan and Chad.

‘10




9

Cynthia Moss

  

open in Amboseli.

SPRING/ SUMMER 1987, VOL. 36, NOS. 1 & 2

EIA: Bird Trade In the run-up to the CITES meeting in Ottawa, promi—
nence was given to the Environmental Investigation Agency report on
Senegal’s bird trade. Senegal is the world’s biggest exporter of wild birds,
and the US. is a prime market. Millions of birds die in transit. The Inter-
national Air Transport Association’s regulations on the shipment of wild—
life are weak—and in any case seldom enforced. EIA’s recommendations
to an IATA/CITES liaison group need to be adopted. EIA’s researchers
have also shown that human psittacosis, although grossly under—reported,
is plainly on the increase. Buying wild-caught birds is risky.

In a separate article, Greta Nilsson pointed out that the cage bird trade
is endangering more and more bird species and listed those which CITES
should take under its protective wing.

Cages of birds
inside ‘Faune
Senegalaise’, one
of Senegal’s bird
exporter’s
premises.

11

 

    

© Dave Currey/BIA.

 




 

Trapping: Canada Bruised by all the bad publicity incurred over the
annual slaughter on the ice of baby harp seals, the Canadian government
put out a discussion paper entitled Defense of the Fur Trade. It stated: “If
a fur campaign is going to be effective, the leghold trap is a necessary sac-
rifice.” Two years later, though, that “sacrifice” has still to be made.
Seemingly the Canadian fur trade prefers to try to win friends through the
wiles of public relations.

Whaling Once more the spotlight was on the murky activities of the die-
hard whaling nations, Japan, Norway, and Iceland. By one ruse or another,
all three have signalled their intention to carry on whaling, although the
term “commercial whaling” has now been dropped in favor of such euphe-
misms as “research whaling” or, in the case of Norway, “small—scale, tradi-
tional whaling.”

Silent Springs Bird population studies over the past 40 years in three
natural woodland parks around Washington, DC. show a progressive de-
cline in the number of returning spring migrants. Undoubtedly a root
cause is the destruction of wintering grounds in Latin America. The con-
version of rainforests into grazing land for cattle is, in effect, exchanging
warblers for hamburgers.

To mark the 25th anniversary of the publication of Silent Spring, and
with it the birth of the environmental movement, a companion piece
looked back on the life of Rachel Carson.

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES MADE BY
AWI REPRESENTATIVES

Conferences with Arnold and Porter on lawsuit to save the whales, July 3, Septem—
ber 27, 1986; April 13, 1987, Washington, DC.

U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, meeting with Undersecretary Dunkle, July 16,
1986, Washington, DC.

Bureau of Land Management, Wild Horse and Burro Advisory Committee
Meeting, July 17, 1986, Washington, DC.

Preparatory meetings July 21, September 24, October 15, 1986; May 28, 1987 , for
Ottawa meeting of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), U. S. Department of the
Interior, Washington, DC.

U. S. Department of the Interior, meeting with Undersecretary Mott, July 23, 1986,
Washington, DC.

Meeting on CITES with Secretariat, August 6, 1986, Washington, DC.

Demonstration outside Commerce Department to protest Icelandic violation of
the moratorium on commercial whaling, August 6, 1986, Washington, DC.

12

 

 




 

 

Presentations by Tom Regan and Michael A. Fox to National Academy of Sci-
ences Committee on the Use of Laboratory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral
Research, August 17, 1986, Washington, DC.

Meetings of National Research Council Committee on the Care and Use of Ani-
mals in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, August 18, October 18, 1986; March
7, May 16, 1987, Washington, DC.

USDA Animal Welfare Training Course for Animal Health Technicians, August '
19, 1986, Philadelphia, PA. Cathy Liss gave presentation.

International Whaling Commission Interagency Meetings, August 20, November
12, 1986; January 8, May 21, 1987, Washington, DC.

American Psychological Association, August 25, 1986, Improving the Quality of
Life of Laboratory Primates, Washington, DC.

National Zoological Park, August 27, 1986, lecture on chimpanzees by Roger
Fouts, Washington, DC.

Conference on Tropical Rain Forests and Dams, September 28, 1986, Washington,
DC. Demonstration at World Bank to save tropical rain forests, September 30,
1986, Washington, DC.

Culture and Animals Foundation, October 3, 1986, art exhibition, including two
paintings by Christine Stevens, Raleigh, NC.

Annual Meeting of the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science
(AALAS), October 6-10, 1986, Chicago, IL. AWI booth exhibit.

American Humane Association Conference, October 8, 1986, Denver, CO.
Christine Stevens spoke on “Legislating the Protection of Animals, Setting Short-
Term Goals and Working Together to Achieve Them.”

Presentation to Senator Robert Dole of the Albert Schweitzer Medal by Dr. Dallas
Pratt, October 14, 1986, at the AWI Annual Meeting, Washington, DC.

United States Animal Health Association Annual Meeting, Animal Welfare Com—
mittee, October 21, 1986, Louisville, KY.

Horse Transport meeting, Michigan Humane Society, October 26, 1986, Detroit,
MI.

Humane Education Conference, Columbia Teachers College, November 9, 1986,
New York City.

Training Course for Veterinary Inspectors under the Animal Welfare Act, Novem-
ber 19, 1986, College Park, MD.

National Agricultural Library, “NAL Day,” November 20, 1986, Washington, DC.

Workshop on the Implementation of Revised Public Health Service Policy on
Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals and the National Institutes of
Health Guide, December 2—3, 1986, NIH, and Georgetown University Medical Cen-
ter, Washington, DC.

13

 




 

 

Training session for new Veterinary Inspectors, December 3, 1986, Veterinary
Services, U. S. Department of Agriculture, College Park, MD. Christine Stevens
and Cathy Liss spoke on the Animal Welfare Act.

Monitor International Board Meeting, December 16, 1986, Washington, DC.

Lunch to honor William Rogers, principal attorney in whale lawsuit, January 27,
1987, Washington, DC.

Japanese television (Mainichi) interview with Christine Stevens, March 5, 1987,
Washington, DC.

Meeting with Russ Reidinger, Interim Director of Animal Damage Control, USDA,
March 10-11, 1987, Denver, CO.

Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research (PRIM&R) Meeting, March 16-
17, 1987 , Cambridge, MA. Christine Stevens participated in panel discussion on
“Practical Problems for the IACUC and Approaches for Their Resolution.”

Association of Standards, Testing and Materials (ASTM) meeting, March 18-19,
1987, Cincinnati, OH.

Meeting with International Union for the Conservation of Nature, President
Swaminathan and co-workers, March 26, 1987, Washington, DC.

National Science Teachers Association Meeting, March 26-29, 1987, Washington,
DC. AWI booth exhibit and distribution of educational materials.

American Humane Association Executive Training Meeting, March 80, 1987,
Phoenix, AZ. Christine Stevens spoke on “Current Philosophies and the Future of

the Humane Movement.”

Meeting with Dr. Donald Broom, Professor of Animal Welfare, Cambridge Univer—
sity, April 29, 1987, Humane Society of the United States, Washington, DC.

Demonstration to Save the Whales, May 1, 1987, Washington, DC.

National Agricultural Library meeting of Animal Welfare Advisory Committee,
May 15, 1987, Beltsville, MD.

Whale Strategy Meeting, May 15, 1987, Washington, DC.

International Wolf Symposium, May 22, 1987, Washington, DC.

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare, Symposium on Well—Being of Laboratory
Animals, June 4, 1987,. University of Chicago. Christine Stevens spoke on “The
Hlstory of Laboratory Animal Legislation in the U. S. and Abroad.”

National Seminar of the Alliance for Animal Legislation, AWI booth, June 20-22,
1987, College Park, MD. ’A

lInternational Whaling Commission meeting, June 21-26, 1987, Bournemouth, Eng-
and. -

14

”5.13.9 ,. , “

 

 




 

 

EYIPYITEDHJEPJTT()I?IFTJPq(YI]K)PQAL[,IEIIITEHNESEHS ——-TAIVIDﬂUXIllﬂﬁEHLIUXILEIIIRETITTFIJTHE
Year Ended June 30, 1987

and Projects

Salaries

Payroll taxes and employment insurance

Medical insurance

Advertising 1

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies

Printing——AWI Publications

Research and writing

Grants

Conferences, meetings and travel

Postage, mailing and addressing costs
<(except for Quarterlies)

Stationery, duplicating and office supplies

Professional services

Memberships and subscriptions

Acquisition of books and other educational'
materials

Schweitzer Medal

Consultant fees

Miscellaneous
TOTAL EXPENSES BEFORE DEPRECIATION

Depreciation of fixtures and equipment

Program Services

Public
Education

$ 84,181
7,481

29,921
53,803
25,724
23,250
10,869

17,743
8,638

9,115

612
2,811
14,000
300

288,448

2,168

Save The
Whales

$ 21,785
1,671

68,254
11,595

750
25

2,674
652

2,167

17

270
109,860

“-

Total

$105,966
9,152

68,254
29,921
65,398
25,724
24,000
10,894

20,417
9,290

11,282

629
2,811
14,000
, 570
398,308

2,168

Management

and
General

$34,444
3,040
4,712

5,784
2,906

2,412
9,788
8,385

55
339

71,865

722

 

TOTAL EXPENSES 12.22354; W m Lugs;

A copy of the entire financial statement is available on request.

Fund
Raising

$ 6,623
572

3,556

3,920

25

374

Total
Functional
Expenses

$147,033
12,764
4,712
71,810
35,705
72,224
25,724
24,000
10,919

23,203
19,078

8,385
11,282

684
2,811
14,000
909

 

15,070

722

485,243

3,612

 

éééélééé

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Post Office Box 3650 Washington, D. C. 20007

 

 

Scientiﬁc Committee Directors
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. John Beary, M.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D. Madeleine Bemelmans
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D. Marjorie Cooke
Samuel Peacock, M.D. Christabel Gough
John Walsh, M.D. David 0. Hill
Sue Hunt
International Committee Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Aline de Aluja, D.V.M. — Mexico Christine Stevens
T. G. Antikas, D.V.M. - Greece Aileen Train
Ambassador Tabarak Husain Cynthia Wilson
- Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom Ofﬁcers
Simon Muchiru - Kenya Christine Stevens, President
David Ricardo - Canada Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Godofredo Stutzin - Chile Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. - Denmark

Staff
Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant
Jessie Despard, Publications Coordinator
Rosita Eck, Administrative Assistant
for Communications
Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for Livestock and Poultry
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator
Cathy Liss, Research Associate
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Victor Perez, Clerical Assistant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Laura Swedberg, Administrative Assistant
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in comput-
ing income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully
accepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the
Institute’s much-needed work depends upon such support. Bequests t0
the Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect
animals. Please remember the Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest:

I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of dollars,
(or if other property, describe the property).

 

 




 

Animal Welfare Institute

 

Thirty-Seventh Annual Report

 

1 July 1987 to 30 June 1988

 

 




 

LACEY ACT LAWSUIT

The Animal Welfare Institute was the lead organization in a lawsuit against the
Department of the Interior to require the Fish and Wildlife Service to enforce regu-
lations for the Humane and Healthful Transport of Wild Mammals and Birds under
the Lacey Act. AWI and twelve other organizations were represented pro bono by
Ray Bolze and Margaret Fitzpatrick of the Washington firm, Howrey and
Simon,whose excellent presentation of the compelling facts won the day for
animals.

The Lacey
Act was passed
in 1900, and it
has continued to
help protect
w i 1 d l i f e
throughout its
long history. In
1981, it was
amended to re-
quire the De—
partment of the
Interior to en-
force humane
transport of
wildlife but no regulations were issued for years because the pet trade lobbied so
effectively to delay action. Finally, as a result of intense, repeated demands by
animal advocates, the Fish and Wildlife Service issued proposed regulations 31
November 1987, scheduled to become effective 8 February 1988, but bird traders
and airlines who opposed the regulations met with US Fish and Wildlife Service
officials and persuaded them to withdraw the regulations only two days after their
effective date. Accompanying the Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council (PIJAC)
representative in this private meeting were two notorious bird and mammal traders.
It was they who had the government’s ear rather than organizations seeking decent
protection for wild birds and mammals. But their triumph was short lived.

On 18 April, Judge John H. Pratt ruled that the regulations remain in effect and
that any change in them must follow the requirements of the Administrative
Procedure Act, to which the Government had failed to adhere. Justice Department
attorneys for the defense were supported by legal counsel from the Pet Industry
Joint Advisory Council, but they failed to make their case.

PIJ AC continues to seek weakening of the humane transport regulations. Vig-
ilance and follow-up action will be necessary.This is not the end of the struggle to
stop the extreme cruelty and destruction of the international pet trade, but it is a
landmark step in this long battle.

John Brookland/EIA

 

These monkeys were shipped with their tails tied together.




1987 CITES MEETING

The biggest meeting ever held of the nations party to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) took
place in Ottawa, Canada, July 12-24. Many non—governmental organizations
attended, both those seeking to protect animals and representatives of animal
dealers for research and the pet trade, dealers in ivory, leather and fur, organizations
using wild animals for experimental purposes, and other consumers of wildlife.
AWI representatives were active throughout the whole course of the meeting, and
AWI’s prominently placed booth featured the documentary film on suffering and
death of exotic birds captured for the international pet trade. The pitiful cries of a
parrot having his wing feathers cut off with a machete were heard by the delegates
from 84 countries.

The film, run continuously throughout the working hours of the meeting, was
produced by the Environmental Investigation Agency (BIA) with support from
AWI. Interestingly enough, it was stolen one night, no doubt by someone who
hoped a second copy would not be available. Fortunately, one was, as were COpies
of EIA’s profusely illustrated report.

The AWI exhibit also featured the disastrous ivory trade which is driving the
African elephant toward extinction just as the rhino horn trade has already
decimated rhino populations. Iain Douglas-Hamilton, whose expertise on the
subject of elephant populations is unrivaled, arrived at the CITES meeting with the
just-completed African Elephant Data Base Project, 200 copies of which AWI
immediately reproduced for distribution to the delegates. Dr. Douglas-Hamilton
was pleased to see the quotation from his recent article in ORYX featured at the
AWI booth. This article, too, was made available to the hundreds of people
attending the meeting.

Headed “Intense Animal Suffering in Commercial Trade,” the third subject at
AWI’s booth was steel-jaw trapped fur. Our information helped to prevent adop-

 

INTENSE ANIMAL SUFFERING IN COMMERCIAL TRADE

\VILD CAUGHT BIRDS IVORY STEEL JAVV TRAPPED FUR

l nrlll~pcnt rummmm
'un

 

        
    
  

        

111111111

\
iiiiii
k

 

e for ivory. mom u
«Armor prevent their destruc‘lit

 

"A 10ml ban in priwuc ivory trading wah mlplcmcnwd in
Kenya in 1978. and :1 similar moratorium may well be [hr
best solution in ( ctmmrics . . . "

    
 
  

"Poaching for in
clephmm’ future

   

~l. [Mmglzw—Hamilmu

 

M)“ is the time to bring desperately utcdcd protection
"is ﬂawed spu‘ics of pdnacinc- birth for the pn c Inst
. v

m ( I‘ Animal welfar- flute
trade 9.0. Box 5630, Waxhix 3:10". D17. 2000"

 

 

 

AWI’S exhibit at the Ottawa CITES meeting.

3

 




 

tion of a fur trade proposal to downgrade record requirements for traveling fur
exhibits.

AWI was active in obtaining passage of a resolution urging Parties to use all
possible means, including economic, diplomatic, and political, to exert pressure on
countries that allow illegal trade in ivory, including Burundi and the United Arab
Emirates. We worked with Perez Olindo, head of Kenya ’s delegation, Mbaelele Ma
Mankato, head of Zaire’s delegation, and other African leaders.

The next CITES meeting, scheduled for October 1989 in Lausanne, Switzerland,
will provide a battleground for ivory traders pitted against elephant protectors. AWI
will continue to fight to stop the vicious criminals who are destroying these
intelligent and thoughtful animals for their tusks. As Henry David Thoreau wrote:
“Can he who slays the elephant for his ivory be said to have seen the elephant? These
are petty and accidental uses; just as if a stronger race were to kill us in order to
make buttons and ﬂageolets of our bones.”

In our efforts to curb the cruelty of the bird trade, we worked chieﬂy with Latin
American delegates who are anxious to prevent the international pet trade from
destroying the beautiful birds that they consider a national heritage. Although the
proposal by Mateo do Mello of Uruguay and Jose Trude Palazzo of Brazil to limit
sale of 46 species of parrots to those capable of breeding them in captivity was
prevented from passing by heavy pet trade lobbying, some gains were made for
birds and mammals in transit.

Many African, Asian, and Latin American countries have banned the export of
their native wild birds, but the international pet trade continues to exploit the wild
birds of Senegal to a monstrous degree. The Environmental Investigation Agency
conducted the first fully documented study of this trade in Senegal. EIA investiga-
tors found that some 20 million birds are captured there each year and that half of
these delicate creatures die as a result of the brutal handling methods before they can
be crammed into the crates used to transport them by air to the “consuming
countries,” of which the US is a major one. Japan and the European countries also
provide massive markets for this cruel trade.

The report emphasizes that the bird trade is worth very little to Senegal, but its
exporters are making huge profits. They all own other companies financed from
their bird businesses. EIA’s Dave Currey reports that the biggest Senegalese bird
trader finds the US market the most profitable, accounting for 45% of their trade.

NEW STUDY ON ANIMAL DEALERS

The dealers who exploit wild animals are, in some cases, the same as those
trading in domestic animals for laboratory use. The shadowy area in which
some of these commercial traders operate is currently under study by AWI.
Though not yet fully funded, the work is underway with a view to publishing a
report on dealers comparable to the AWI book, Beyond the Laboratory Door.
AWI welcomes contributions of information, which should be directed to Louise
Wright and Cathy Liss.




LABORATORY ANIMALS

AWI fought for protection of laboratory animals on multiple fronts this year.
Editorial comment in TheWall Street Journal on 16 June quoted false allegations
by heart surgeon Dr. Michael DeBakey in an attack on AWI President Christine
Stevens. DeBakey, who was serving on a National Academy of Sciences Com-
mittee with Stevens and had previously shared the podium with her at a meeting
of the Scientists Institute for Public Information, sought to discredit AWI's work
to protect laboratory animals. The controversy was picked up by The Scientist
(21 September) which in turn was read by a staff member of Baylor College of
Medicine where Dr. DeBakey is Chancellor. Hoping that AWI could succeed
where others had failed in reforming cruel and dangerous pratices in a Baylor can-
cer laboratory, the staff member sent detailed descriptions accompanied by more
that 100 photographs and slides taken by different people over a nine-year period
in efforts to get the attention of Baylor authorities.

From this documentation, AWI's
Cathy Liss and Louise Wright pre-
pared a 23-page report illustrated with NIH has taken an

33 color photographs showing ﬁlthy, increasingly aggressive
hazardous conditions with carcino-

genic materials in the Baylor labora— pOSltIOIl In OppOSlthIl

tory. They submitted it in person to to animal welfare,
the National Institutes of Health's Of— . . . .

fice for Protection from Research Risks WhICh.” per SIS tS In
(OPRR) which sent it on to Baylor. labeling “animal

Since NIH provides Baylor with nearly rights” even when dis-
$43 million dollars a year for research,

this had the effect of rapid removal of cussmg reglﬂatlons-
animals from the laboratory. How—
ever, no formal response to AWI's
complaints has been received. Instead,
in an interview in Science (13 November), NIH's Dr. Charles McCarthy, head of
OPRR , came to Dr. DeBakey's defense with a snide comment about AWI's care-
fully documented report— all, of course, without naming names. Science de-
clined to publish our letter of correction, citing lack of space, so it appeared with
illustrations in the Winter issue of the AWI Quarterly.

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has taken an increasingly aggressive
position in opposition to animal welfare, which it persists in labeling “animal
rights” even when discussing regulations. An internal memo on the subject urges
scientists to give up the “bunker strategy.” It even specifies that “All budget pres-
entations should include a discussion of overly stringent animal regulations and
their impact on the cost of research.” Scientists are encouraged to . . include
reference to the difficulties imposed by restrictive regulations . .

While the memo might be dismissed as a matter of opinion, the objections to
the proposed regulations under the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals

5

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

(ISLA) amendment to the Animal Welfare Act painfully demonstrate this attitude
in action.

A representative of NIH was sent to the US Department of Agriculture
(USDA) to “assist” in analyzing the comments received on the March 31, 1987
proposed regulations under Parts I and II of ISLA.

Meanwhile, two outstanding USDA Animal Care Specialists who inspected
and reported on conditions in the NIH contract laboratory SEMA have been reas—
signed. Under the Freedom of Information Act, AWI has learned of the way
infant chimpanzees are treated at SEMA. In an inspection report dated July 30,
1987, the Animal Care Specialists pointed
out that numerous chimpanzee cages failed
to meet the minimum standards required by

 

: People for the E thtcal Treatment of Animals

photos

 

E

SEMA chimps and the isolettes where they suﬂer extreme deprivation.

law, nor were they cleaned regularly. (For example, “Some of the cages were
marked that they should have been cleaned 7-21-87 and 7-16-87”.) Further, “A
review of the necropsy records from July 86 to July 87 indicated 40 primates had
died due to numerous causes including starvation, dehydration, intestinal prob—
lems, ‘Poolesville’ syndrome (retrovirus), thorny headed worm complications,
pneumonia, complications to anesthetics and tranquilizers.” The inspector noted
a need for “more direct veterinary supervision.” Yet in a letter to Senator Robert
Byrd dated December 7, 1987, NIH stated, “. . . there is no evidence that SEMA
failed to comply with established laws, regulations, or policies relating to the
conduct of research involving nonhuman primates, including chimpanzees.”
However, SEMA’s refusal to be interviewed by CBS, much less permit an in-
spection of their laboratories on camera, strongly suggests that the necessary
changes to bring them into compliance have not been made.

NIH veterinarians who escorted Jane Goodall through the SEMA animal
rooms sought to persuade her that the conditions were acceptable. The SEMA
chimps are kept in isolettes only 22" wide, a metal cage within a glass cage. Jane
Goodall, writing in The New York Times, said that during their years of isolation,
the chimpanzees “will become insane. A juvenile female rocked from side to




side, sealed off from the outside world behind the glass doors of her metal
isolation chamber. She was in semidarkness. All she could hear was the incessant
roar of air rushing through vents into her prison.”

Yet NIH says, “It is premature to expect this institution to establish care and
treatment procedures beyond that to be specified in the Regulations implementing
recent amendments to the Animal Welfare Act.”

Why haven’t these regulations been made final? Who has stood in their way?
NIH has been a principal source of objections and obstacles placed in the path of
promulgation of regulations under the Improved Standards for Laboratory Ani-
mals amendments to the Animal Welfare Act which became law December 23,
1985.

At a brieﬁng held February 19, 1988 for Congress and at an international con-
ference held in Geneva March 28, 1988, NIH advocated the need for thousands of
chimpanzees to be used in AIDS research. At the Geneva meeting, which was
sponsored by the World Health Organization (WHO), an effort was made by NIH
to have the WHO modify its standing “Policy Statement on the Use of Primates for
Biomedical Purposes.” The policy strongly recommends that “endangered, vul-
nerable, or rare species be considered for use in biomedical research projects only
if they are obtained from existing self-sustaining captive breeding colonies.”

SCHWEITZER MEDAL TO JANE GOODALL

Senator John Melcher (D, MT) presented the 1987 Albert Schweitzer Medal
of the Animal Welfare Institute to Dr. Jane Goodall, the world’s foremost au-
thority on chimpanzees, at the Animal Welfare Institute annual meeting in the
Hart Senate Ofﬁce Building. The ceremony was viewed by an overﬂow crowd
of well-wishers.

The Melcher amendment to the Dole/Brown Improved Standards for Labora-
tory Animal amendment to the Animal Welfare Act mandates “a physical envi-
ronment adequate to promote the psychological well—being of primates.” After
seeing the chimps at SEMA, Dr. Goodall organized a workshop of experts to
recommend standards to meet that mandate. The Schweitzer Award was made
in recognition of her unﬂagging campaign for the protection of chimpanzees in
the wild and in captivity based on her unparalleled understanding of this won-
derful species.

NEW PUBLICATION ON FARM ANIMALS

AWI’s major publication for the year, Factory Farming: The Experiment
That Failed, a compilation of articles and photographs with contributions by Ra-
chel Carson, Bernhard Grzimek, Ruth Harrison, Desmond Morris, and George
Wald, is the result of several years of effort by Diane Halverson, AWI’s farm ani-
mal expert. '

The 86-page text, with 114 illustrations, includes humane, practical alterna-
tives to the cruelly cramped factory farms. A list of sources of food products

7

 




 

from humanely reared animals concludes the text, and readers are invited to sub-
mit additional names and addresses so that AWI can publish and distribute a fre-
quently updated list.

The book emphasizes the stark contrast of agribusiness production of meat
and eggs with photographs and paintings of farm animals in the surroundings
that encourage contentment and joy. Pitiless greed, fueled by technology gone
wrong, has brought these monstrous systems to all developed countries and
many third world countries as well. Both legislation and education are needed to
reverse the trend towards inhumane methods which result in massive overpro-
duction and concentration of animal agriculture in the hands of gigantic corpora-
tlons.

Factory Farming: The Experiment That Failed has been made available free
on request to public libraries and humane societies throughout the United States.
Its low price to individuals ($3.00) also encourages widespread readership. An
informed public can accomplish essential change by rejecting factory farmed
meat and eggs and supporting humane production by patronizing stores, restau-
rants, and markets that offer free-range eggs and meat from unconfined animals.

A splendid interview with Diane Halverson by Henry Mitchell was featured
on the front page of The Washington Post “Style” section 3 April. The inter-
view also appeared in a number of other newspapers which carry Henry Mitch-
ell’s widely acclaimed column. “Given freedom to trot about a little,” he wrote,
“the pigs on a spring day are a paradigm of paradise, gruntling among fallen
branches, roots and (in favored places) trufﬂes. So it is little wonder that a farm
girl like Halverson grew up loving them. Her energies now go to making life
happy for them, or at least less hideous than the common circumstance of
penning sows in steel cages and snatching off the piglets to a life of almost total
frustration.”

 
 

AWI
Research
Associate
Diane

H alverson
with piglet.

The Washtngton Post/ Gary Cameron




~

TRAPPING

Most of the member countries of the European Economic Community have
banned the use of steel-jaw leghold traps within their borders. The European Par-
liament’s Intergroup for Animal Welfare is actively seeking to extend the ban to
the entire EEC and to require labelling of imported furs so consumers will know
whether animals were caught
by this barbarous device.* W *

Edward Seymour—Rouse the
founder of Eurogroup for Ani-
mal Welfare, has undertaken
to provide relevant information
to the members of the Euro—
pean Parliament and other con-
cerned officials on behalf of
the Animal Welfare Institute.

Although the majority of
Americans oppose the use of » ~m ..
the steel-jaw leghold trap (a . i \ .A . K ' r g
SCiemiﬁC study by the Yale A marten struggles in a steel-jaw leghold trap.
University School of Forestry
and Environmental Studies showed that 78% of those contacted consider use of
the trap wrong), fur trade lobbyists have repeatedly blocked federal legislation to
end the use of this trap. Powerful economic pressure is needed to put an end to
steel-jaw trapping. Europe is a major market. If it rejects cruelly caught fur, the
incentive for change will be enormous.

 

WHALES

Iceland, Norway and Japan all sought acceptance by the International Whaling
Commission of their “research whaling” proposals at the Commission’s annual
meeting in June in Auckland, New Zealand. The attempt to continue commer—
cial whaling under the guise of scientific investigation has been repeatedly re—
jected by majority vote of the nations party to the IWC. Nevertheless, these
three countries use loopholes in the treaty to go on killing whales. AWI with
other whale protective organizations is fighting back through the courts. The
law firm of Arnold and Porter has generously pursued enforcement of US law
against the recalcitrant nations, filing a series of major lawsuits against the
Secretary of State and Secretary of Commerce on behalf of the whales.

 

* On 10 October, following signature by 276 of its members of an offical declaration to
this effect, the European Parliament announced that the ban on leghold traps and labelling of
furs caught in them is now offical policy. The Parliament's recommendation now goes to the
European Commission and Council for action.

9

 




 

 

THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about20,000
individuals and organizations including public libraries, Deans of
medical and veterinary schools, teachers, scientists and AW] mem-
bers. Among the subjects covered during the year were:

FALL 1987, Vol. 36, N0. 3

Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora (CITES): Seven pages of this 20-page issue were devoted to the
biennial meeting of the CITES parties in Ottawa. Highlighted was the ﬁerce reproof
aimed at France, Austria and Japan by the Latin American nations for plundering
South America’s native wildlife with the aid of forged documents But a majority
of the developed nations, including the United States, voted against the resolution
calling on the CITES Standing Committee to “evaluate the implementation of the
convention in those three countries.”

The African nations, notably Kenya, Tanzania and Zaire, also vented their fury
at the plundering of their wildlife resources. In the unremitting slaughter of the ele-
phant, forged documents and hi gh-level corruption are commonplace. The CITES
Secretariat came under strong attack for approving sale of millions of dollars worth
of ivory by Burundi, a country that has no elephants but has long served as an
entrepot for poached ivory. It chose to believe that Burundi, if permitted to sell
“legally” its vast stockpile of ivory, would then. join CITES. The ivory was sold:
Burundi did not join.

Farm Animals: The European Parliament has adopted a resolution calling for the
phasing-out of intensive livestock systems and requiring Europe’s farmers to take
proper account of the behavioral and dietary needs of their animals. By contrast, in
the US, a deceptively titled Guide for the Care and Use of Agricultural Animals in
Agriculture Research and Teaching seeks to defend intensive systems in their
entirety, giving short shrift to humane and biologically sound alternatives. The
Guide would throw a mantle of respectability over systems in which animals are
compelled to suffer extreme confinement, nutritional deprivation and unnecessary
mutilation in the cause of maximizing profits.

10




WINTER 1988, Vol. 36, No.4

Smuggling: Smugglers do not always get away with it. Three related stories
carrying this good news concerned the jailing of a large-scale parrot smuggler, a
highly successful interstate “sting” involving protected birds and the recapture of
two Spix macaw ﬂedglings in Paraguay ~— the known world population of this
species is only four.

Entanglement of sea mammals and birds: In the North Paciﬁc sea creatures of
all kinds and in huge numbers are being caught by the “curtains of death” —— the
driftnets, over a million miles of them, deployed by the salmon and squid ﬂeets of
Japan, Korea and Taiwan. In re-
sponse to this menaceanew law,
the product of bills in the House
and in the Senate, requires of-
fending fisheries to comply with
more stringent regulations out-
side as well as inside US waters
in order to safeguard the marine
ecosystem, salmon populations
in particular. Noncompliance
could lead to sanctions under the
Pelly Amendment.

A related issue is the mass
slaughter of dolphins by the Pacific tuna ﬂeets— the largest permitted kill of marine
mammals in the world. The 1986 estimated kill (the most recent available) was
150,000, and certain dolphin species, (notably the eastern spinner) down perhaps
80% in numbers since the inception of purse seinin g, are now under severe pressure.
Amendments to the Marine Mammal Protection Act require an embargo on tuna
imports from foreign ﬂeets killing dolphins at dramatically higher rates than the US
ﬂeet. Mexico has a documented kill rate four times higher. Yet the Commerce De—
partment shows no signs of enforcing the embargo.

  

An entangled sea lion.

Whaling: With Japan ignoring calls to cease their “scientific” whaling in Ant-
arctica, the US Commerce Secretary declared Japan in violation of the whaling
moratorium. This opened the prospect once more of Japan forfeiting fishing and
fish-exporting rights. However, President Reagan (as the following Quarterly
explained) refused to grasp the nettle, calling only for cancellation of Japan's
allocation of sea snail ﬁshing and a further report on J apan’s whaling activities.

Domestic Pets: Los An geles has led the way in dramatically reversing the nation-
wide trend in ever-increasing impoundment and destruction of dogs and cats. The
well-publicized secret of success has been the city’s provision of low-cost spaying

11

 




 

 

and neutering clinics. The benefits are solid: a sharp reduction in surplus numbers,
an improved adoption rate of animals impounded and a considerable saving to the
taxpayer.

Unhappily the only city to have followed Los Angeles’ example lies outside the
US. In 11 years Vancouver has reduced its annual destruction of unwanted animals
from 80,000 to 9000. Its goal is “not to kill any animal suitable for adoption.”

SPRING/SUMMER 1988, Vol. 37, Nos. 1&2

Trapping : Britain seemed set to become the first country to introduce compulsory
labeling of furs made from animals caught in steel-jaw leghold traps. The proposed
Order won all-party support in the House of Commons. However bitter opposition
from Canada and the US State Department brought about a British climbdown.

Laboratory animals: Although the Improved Standards for Laboratory Ani-
mals amendment to the Animal Welfare Act was passed in 1985, it is not yet in
effect because opponents have succeeded in delaying promulgation of regulations.
The Senate Agriculture Appropriations Committee issued a report which stated that
it was “concerned by the long delay in publishing ﬁnal regulations” and calling for
increased inspections under the Animal Welfare Act. Meanwhile, use of animals
— especially primates— in laboratories is increasing, and violations of the Animal
Welfare Act abound. Among those ﬁned for violations: the University of
Minnesota, Louisiana State University and James Hickey, a big Oregon animal
dealer.

Elephants and Rhinos: Con-
gressional hearings on the
plight of both the African ele—
phant and the rhino took place
in June. Elephant expert Iain
Douglas-Hamilton said that
despite the CITES Quota agree-
ment, introduced in 1985 to
control the ivory trade, the col-
lapse of elephant populations
has continued, fueled by cor-
ruption and insatiable demand.
He pleaded for “action now” to ban US ivory imports of poached ivory.

Rhino expert Esmond Bradley Martin called for strong pressure on the United
Arab Emirates to honor their promise to stop trading in rhino horn. Of countries
still retaining remnant rhino populations, Zambia, he said, was causing the biggest
poaching problem.

Lindblad/Afrzcan my. Foandation

 

12

 

 




 

 

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES MADE BY AWI
REPRESENTATIVES

Symposium on Ethics of Animal Experimentation in Biomedical Research, Brussels,
Belgium, July 5, 1987. Christine Stevens spoke on Preventing Needless Animal Suffering
Through Regulation and Use of Alternative Systems.

Sixth meeting of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), July 12-24, 1987 Ottawa, Canada. AWI booth
exhibit.

Minnesota Veterinary Medical Association, July 17, 1987, St.Pau1, MN. Diane Halverson
gave a presentation to the Animal Welfare Committee on AWI’s concerns about farm
animal rearing methods.

Committee on Use of Laboratory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, July
25-26 August 12-13, 1987, Washington, DC.

International Symposium on Bioethics and Applied Ethology, August 15-16, 1987, Mon-
treal, Canada.

Meeting on Wild Caught Exotic Bird Trade, August 2, 1987, Washington, DC.

International Whaling Commission Interagency meetings, September 8, October 27, 1987,
January 21, May 4, 1988. Washington, DC.

New York State Humane Association Conference on Pet Overpopulation and Stray Cats
and Dogs, September 11, 1987, New York City. Christine Stevens gave the keynote
address, “Homage To Boatswain and Stickeen”.

Culture and Animals Foundation, Lecture at the North Carolina Museum of Art, September
20, 1987, Raleigh, NC. Roger Stevens spoke on Animals and Art.

Rainforest Demonstration, October 1, 1987, Washington, DC.
Meeting on housing of calves raised for veal, October 5, 1987, Washington, DC.

Tropical Rainforests, Interdependence and Responsibility Symposium, October 16-18
1987, Hunter College, New York City.

Annual Meeting of the Animal Welfare Committee of the United States Animal Health
Association, October 26, 1987, Salt Lake City, UT.

Presentation to Dr. Jane Goodall of the Albert Schweitzer Medal by Senator John Melcher
of Montana, November 2, 1987 at the AWI Annual Meeting, Washington, DC.

Book party for AWI’s latest publication, Factory Farming, The Experiment that Failed,
November 6, 1987, Washington, DC.

Annual Meeting of the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, November
8-12, 1987 Denver, CO. AWI booth exhibit.

Contraception in Wildlife, November 13-14, 1987, Philadelphia, PA.

Jane Goodall Workshop on the Psychological Well-Being of Captive Chimpanzees, No—
vember 30-December 3, Washington, DC.

US Department of Agriculture Training Course for new Veterinary Medical Ofﬁcers,
December 1, 1987, College Park, MD.Cathy Liss spoke on animal welfare.

13

 




 

 

 

National Pork Producers Council, December 14, 1987, Washington, DC. Christine
Stevens and Diane Halverson spoke on humane alternatives to gestation stalls.

Demonstration opposite the White House to protest Japanese whaling, January 13, 1988,
Washington, DC.

National Agriculture Library meeting on the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
program, January 11, 1988, Beltsville, MD.

Meeting with United States Department of Agriculture Task Force on proposed reorgani-
zation of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, January 27, 1988, Washington,
DC.

Meeting with CITES Secretary-General, February 17, 1988, Washington, DC.

Department of Agriculture Animal Welfare Training Course for Inspectors, February 28-
25, 1988, Rockville, MD. Christine Stevens spoke on psychological well-bemg of pri-
mates.

Missouri Agricultural Leadership of Tomorrow, February 22, 1988, US Department of
Agriculture, Washington, DC. Christine Stevens and Diane Halverson spoke on factory
farming and humane alternative rearing systems.

Department of Agriculture Veterinary Services Budget and Program briefing for Industry
Representatives, March 16, 1988, Hyattsville, MD.

Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research meeting, March 25, 1988, Boston, MA.
Christine Stevens spoke on Animal Research in the Public Eye: A Survey of Current
Regulatory and Ethical Issues in Animal Care and research.

American Humane Association Executive Training Program, April 10, 1988, Wayzata,
MN. Cathy Liss spoke on Current Philosophies and Future of the Humane Movement.

American Committee for International Conservation, briefing on the International Union
for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources by Martin Holdgate, May 3, 1988,
Washington, DC.

National Agricultural Library meeting on grants program under the Improved Standards
for Laboratory Animals provisions of the Animal Welfare Act, May 18, 1988. Beltsville,
MD, Christine Stevens and Barbara Orlans took part.

Demonstration opposite the White House to protest Japanese whaling, May 28, 1988,
Washington, DC.

Annual Symposium of the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science on
Responsibilities of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee: Non-Affiliated and
Non— Scientist Members, June 6, 1988, Philadelphia, PA. AWI leaﬂet, “A Bibliography
for the Use of Non—Affiliated Members of Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees”
distributed.

National Alliance for Animal Legislation, Annual National Seminar, June 18-20, 1988,
Washington, DC. Christine Stevens and Cathy Liss conducted workshops, AWI booth.

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare Conference on “Science and Animals: Addressing
Contemporary Issues”, June 22-25, 1988, Washington, DC.

14

 

 

 




 

STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES — ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Year Ended June 30, 1988

Program Services

 

Public
Education

and Projects

Save The

Whales

Elephant
Program
Expense

Total

Management

and
General

Fund
Raising

Totals

 

1988

1987

 

 

$ 90,961
7,823

Salaries

Payroll taxes and employment insurance

Medical insurance

Advertising

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies

Printing——AWI Publications

Research, writing and editing

Grants for Wildlife Protective Research

Conferences, meetings and travel

Postage, mailing and addressing costs
(except for Quarterlies) 17,389

Stationery, duplicating and office Supplies 13,319

Professional services 640

Memberships and subscriptions 6,133

Acquisition of books and other educational
materials

Schweitzer Medal

Consultant fees 13,368

Factory Farming——The Experiment That Failed 12,894

Miscellaneous 176

TOTAL EXPENSES BEFORE DEPRECIATION 242,297

33,666
10,902

15,500
8,915

4,373
6,238

Depreciation of fixtures and equipment 2,072

TOTAL EXPENSES 244

Certiﬁed Public Accountants Ernst and Whinney

$20,714
1,630

28,180
3,252
1,000
3,075
7,462

1,313

51
66,677

$20,000

851

43
20,894

$111,675
9,453

28,180
33,666
3,252
10,902
36,500
8,915

20,464
21,632
640
7,446

4,373
6,238
13,368
12,894
270
329,868

2,072

$38,207
2,883
6,854

1,567
1,538
368
5,536
15,123

3,789
120

1,236
690

821
78,732

691

$ 6,961
637

6,252

3,948
9,105

677

27,580

690

$156,843
12,973
6,854
34,432
35,233
4,790
10,902
36,500
9,283

29,948
45,860
4,429
7,566

5,050
7,474
14,058
12,894
1,091
436,180

3,453

$147,033
12,764
4,712
71,810
35,705
52,995
29,724
24,000
10,919

23,203
19,078

8,385
11,282

684
2,811
10,000
19,229
909
485,243

3,612

 

666,672

iégiézs $13142£Q

$22,426 626,210 6432,66;

A copy of the entire ﬁnancial statement is available on request

§é§§4§25

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTUTUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Directors
Madeleine Bemehnans

Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hollingsworth
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Sectretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

International Committee

Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. — Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain -
Bangladesh

Angela King - United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru - Kenya

David Ricardo - Canada

Godofredo Stutzin - Chile
Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan
Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. — Denmark

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant
Jessie Despard, Publications Coordinator
Rosita Eck, Administrative Assistant
for Communications

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for Livestock and Poultry

Lynne Hutchinson, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Victor Perez, Clerical Assistant
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully ac-
cepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the
Institute’s much-needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the
Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals.
Please remember the Institute in your will.

S uggested form of bequest:
I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of dollars
(or if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 




 

Animal Welfare Institute

 

Thirty-Eighth Annual Report
1 July 1988 to 30 June 1989

 

 

 




 
 
  
  
  
 
  
     
  

  

The Albert
Schweitzer
Medal

 

 
 

 

     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

"N a I V

characters from her books.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    

At the Eeremony, Astrid Lindgren shows
her medal to Swedish children dressed as

Astrid Lindgren:
Champion of Farm Animals

The Albert Schweitzer Medal was awarded on
March 16th to world famous author Astrid Lind-
gren for her great legislative achievement ban-
ning the worst abuses of factory farming in her
native Sweden.

The medal was presented to Mrs. Lindgren
by Congressman Charles Bennett, author of the
Veal Calf Protection Bill, on which a full day of
hearings were held in May.

AWI members thronged to the Embassy of
Sweden where they were welcomed by Ambas—
sador and Countess Wachtmeister.

An author whose books have been translated into 50 Ian-
guages and made into films in Sweden, Astrid Lindgren pro-
vided an acute analysis of what went wrong for farm animals
since her farm childhood. “It all began one fateful day in the mid
1960’s. The politicians decided that it was time to get things
moving! Down with family farming! Up with large-scale
operation and big animal factories - so the people can have good
food, and cheap! They didn’t talk about ‘cows’ and ‘pigs’ any
more—they talked about ‘production units,’ which did not ex-
actly call for loving care, or even decent treatment. This
transition to large-scale, industrialized animal husbandry was
the worst decision and the worst miscalculation ever made by
the Swedish Parliament.”

When Mrs. Lindgren learned from a Swedish University
veterinarian what takes place in factory farms she wrote about it
in the press: “...we managed to rouse a massive public reaction,
which finally resulted in a new animal protection law in Sweden.
The Prime Minister himself came to my home to deliver the
good news.” It was a well publicized present for her eightieth
birthday. But she wants it to be improved and told the assembled
AWI members that the Schweitzer Award “gives me the guts to
continue the struggle.” And continue she has; American, British
and Australian television commentators, crews in tow, have
interviewed her among farm animals in Sweden since the medal
was presented to her.

June Hughes




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   

Laboratory
Animals

 

 

Alternatives and Regulations

Alternatives to laboratory animals are gaining acceptance by

industry, and government is beginning to provide modest fund-

ing to encourage development and use of non-animal methods.

The National Agricultural Library has been under Congressional

l mandate since enactment of the Improved Standards for Labora-
tory Animals amendments to the Animal Welfare Act in 1985 to
disseminate information on improved methods of animal experi-
mentation which could reduCe or replace animal use and mini-
mize pain and distress to animals.

AWI participation in meetings at the library was instrumental
in its decision to fund a grant for preparation of an important
book Benchmarks:Alternative Methods in Toxicology, edited by
MA. Mehlman, Princeton Scientific Publishing, 1989. As Dr.
Mehlman, writes in the preface, “This volume, the ﬁrst in a
series, represents a joint effort by internationally recognized
scientists from the diverse disciplines of industry, government,
academia, and the animal rights movement. These papers are
intended to serve as a catalyst for rapid identification, validation,
and implementation of alternative methodologies.”

Such reference to alternatives as was included in the National
Research Council-National Academy of Sciences report pub-
lished this year on The Use of Animals in Biomedical and
Behavioral Research was fought for by AWI’s President who
served on the Committee throughout its ten acrimonious meet-
ings covering a period of three years. Mrs. Stevens refused to

Photo: Victor Reinhardt. A rhesus monkey grooms his cage-mate. Pairing primates provides
them with needed social contact and is an eﬂective way of achieving psychological enrichment.

4%;

 

 




   
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Laboratory
Animals

 

 

sign the report, stating:

The report refuses to face the wide-spreadingrained problem of
unnecessary suffering among laboratory animals and does not .,
make so much as a passing reference to the serious problem of poor
research using excessive numbers of animals. I was shocked by the
attitude of committee members who asserted that we have no moral
obligation to animals... ‘

During the extended series of Committee meetings, legisla-
tive and regulatory activities continued. Finally, on March 15,
1989, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals (ISLA)
regulations were re-proposed for Parts 1 and 2 and proposed for
Part 3 for the first time. The Animal Legal Defense Fund sued
the Departments of Agriculture and Health and Human Services
and the Office of Management and Budget because of the long
delay in promulgating the regulations necessary for enforcement
of the ISLA amendments of 1985. As a result, the Justice
Department agreed to a time table which it submitted to the
federal judge, and although no final action was taken during the
period covered by this report, the lawsuit proved a useful incen-
tive.*

Exposing the International Ivory Syndicates

   

AWI is battling the corrupt ivory trade that is driving the African
elephant to extinction. Two main avenues, investigation and
exposure of the ivory criminals and public awareness projects,
have been pursued during the year. AWI grants to the Environ-
mental Investigation Agency have brought much previously
} secret information ‘ to light, and ITN-TV aired documentary
1 footage taken by ELA in Tanzania, Hong Kong and Dubai, on a
‘ series of three newscasts this spring. Describing the filming in
Dubai, Allan Thornton wrote:

 
   
   
 

 

 
   
     
     
 

Sitting outside Jebel Ali, watching the guarded gates, we final-
ized our plan to get into the factories. The next morning, we arrived
at the office of the Freeport’s chairman, Sultan Ahmed Bin Su-
layem, posing as the representatives of a TV production company.
After an on-camera interview about Middle East trade issues, the
gracious Sultan allowed us to ﬁlm wherever we wanted, providing
that we obtained permission from any factories we wanted to enter.

Poon’s two ivory factories employed 60 carvers shipped in from
Hong Kong. The carvers arrive at 7:30 a.m. and work 16 hours

    
     
   
   
   
     
 
 
 

 

*On August 31, 1989 final regulations for parts 1 and 2 of the ISLA amend-
ments to the Animal Welfare Act were published in The Federal Register.

    

 




behind huge sliding doors locked from the inside. That eliminated
the possibility of bursting in the front door and getting what ﬁlm we
could even if we thought it possible to escape afterwards.

Upon visiting the other factories in the huge warehouse, we
discovered that the walls didn’t go all the way to the ceiling, so that
we could see into the Poon’s factory from adjoining businesses. We
told all the businesses of our film on Middle Eastern trade, and
eventually our attention settled on one company a warehouse for an
electrical goods company with a particularly good camera angle
into Poon’s sweatshop.

The ﬂattered manager agreed to indulge our unusual requests.
Dave and Clive wanted to climb into a large box and be hoisted by
a fork-lift onto the highest point of a back shelf, near the wall
overlooking Poon’s ivory factory-in order to get “artistic” shots of
the inside of the electrical goods company. Clive carved a small
hole in the box and surreptitiously ﬁlmed the ivory carvers inside
the factory for 45 minutes, while I entertained the warehouse
workers to divert their attention from our crew, which was taking an
unusually long time to get “the right angle.”

EIA’s cooperation with the Wildlife Society of Tanzania
helped to crystallize the decision by the Government of Tanzania
to propose Appendix I listing for the African elephant, the ﬁrst of

Photo : EIA. A baby elephant, orphaned when poachers killed her mother, is cared for by a
worker at Daphne S heldrick’s elephant orphanage.

 
   

Elephants

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
    




 
   

Elephants

 

 

   
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

seven countries to make these vitally important proposals. AWI
was active in convincing our government to make a similar
proposal.

AWI also joined in a formal petition to the US Department of
the Interior to list the African elephant as endangered under the
Federal Endangered Species Act. Ray Bolze and Margaret

.. Fitzsimmons of the
law firm Howrey
and Simon pre-
pared the petition
pro bono. Al-
though the petition
is still under con-
sideration, a tem-
porary ban on im-
portation of ivory
was imposed by the
US Government
under the African
Elephant Conser-
vation Act and the
Endangered Spe-
cies Act in order to
prevent increased
poaching in the
period preceding
decisions by the CITES nations at their biennial meeting in
October 1989.

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly has repeatedly fea-
tured the elephant crisis and centerfold articles have been repro-
duced as ﬂiers for distribution at press conferences and picket-
ing. A new 8-page leaﬂet was prepared in time for the opening of
the International Fashion Boutique Show at ”the Jacob Javits
Center in New York City, June 3. AWI volunteers handed these
out to hundreds of buyers from all over the country as they
entered the Center. Leaﬂets were also distributed outside 14
different Fifth Avenue stores that sell ivory. The public reaction
was very sympathetic. Plans are underway for distribution of
50,000 additional leaﬂets in full color.

off

N ”Viki Poss




Whales

 

 
 

 

 

Last of the Whalers: Japan and Norway

The campaign to Save the Whales, carried out by AWI since
1971, has made major progress. From sanctioned killings of
37,000 whales in 1974 the numbers harpooned have been re-
duced to a few hundred and these are carried out under a loophole
in the convention on whales and whaling which allows a country
to issue itself a “scientiﬁc permit.” Japan, Norway and Iceland
have taken advantage of this loophole and the whales killed are
consumed commercially, mainly by Japan.

At this year’s meeting of the International Whaling Commis-
sion meeting in San Diego, Iceland announced that it would kill
no whales in 1990, leaving Japan and Norway isolated as the last
nations killing whales in defiance of the recommendations of the
IWC’s Scientiﬁc Committee.

That Committee issued a highly disturbing report on sight-
ings of whales in the Southern Ocean. Dr. Roger Payne, AWI
Scientific Advisor, who is a member of the IWC Scientific
Committee, says, “The question of whether blue whales will
actually survive has suddenly come open again.” It had been
estimated that blue whales numbered as many as 250,000 before
intensive commercial whaling began killing up to 30,000 a year.
When they were ﬁnally protected by the IWC in the 1960’s the
estimate was 10,000 to 20,000. But coordinated sighting sur-
veys in the past eight years revealed only 453 in the whole
Southern Ocean, which may be too few to reproduce effectively.
The same survey also reported far fewer fin and humpback

Photo: R. Mandojama. The eye of the whale. A right whale gazes at the photographer.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

    
 
   
  
   




 

Woppmg

 

   

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   

 

 

whales than had previously been estimated.

AWI will continue its educational advertising program to
inform the public of how they can help to save the remaining
whales by protests and letters to key officials.

Progress on Import Ban

AWI is seeking action by the European Community to end
importation of steel jaw trapped furs by its member nations.
Working under a grant provided for the purpose, extensive
information has been prepared and submitted to members of the
European Parliament and to the Commission by Edward Sey-
mour-Rouse on behalf of AWI. Cathy Liss, AWI’s Research
Associate who specializes in this issue, also personally brought
information to the Parliament in Strasbourg, as did AWI’s
President who attended meetings with European Parliamentari-
ans and other officials in Brussels as well.

Significant progress has been made dur-
ing the year. Last October, 276 Members of
the Parliament signed a declaration making a
ban on steel jaw leghold traps and labelling of
imported furs caught in them official policy.
The matter was referred to the Committee on
the Environment, Public Health and Consumer
Protection, and in February 1989 the Parlia-
ment debated, amended and adopted a motion
for resolution by a vote of 139-3 with 5 ab-
stentions. The resolution was duly referred to
the European Commission which, this April,
issued a proposed regulation for an import ban
in 1996. AWI urges that the effective date be
. . changed to 1991 and that the wording of the
"'9' regulation be tightened.

Closure of the European market to fur

E
' (D

I I, ' '- , . caught by means of the steel jaw leghold trap

' a, would provide the powerful incentive needed
to end the use of this barbaric device in the
United States. That goal, already reached by

A" ermine cruShed by a Steel-jaw WP- more than 60 other nations but long frustrated

by the American fur industry, has at last become achievable
because of this AWI project. Continued hard work, thorough
documentation and adequate funding are necessary for success.

‘3‘




‘3?

  

 

‘ a
Wild-Caught ;
Birds

 

Battle for Wild Birds

“A robin redbreast in a cage
puts all heaven in arage.” wrote
William Blake. The United
States and most other nations
have demonstrated their agree-
ment with the poet by passing laws against
catching and selling their native birds to the
pet trade. Resolu-
tion 1.6 adopted at
the 1976 meeting
of the CITES na-
tions called for a
phase-out of international commerce in all wild caught pets. But
the commercial pet trade has worked instead to increase capture
and sale of exotic birds, at the same time resisting regulations to
reduce the enormous mortality associated with this business.
Adding insult to injury, smuggling of the rarest and most expen-
sive birds has also increased.

AWI has been working steadily to document and oppose the
outrageous mistreatment of wild birds in commercial trade ever
since 1977 when we published The Bird Business, thoroughly
researched by Greta N ilsson, AWI Wildlife Consultant. During
this year she compiled figures on importation of birds into the
United States, 1985-1988 for submission at the CITES meeting
in October 1989. These figures complete the study over a 12-
year period.

The excellent undercover work of agents of the United States
Fish & Wildlife Service in bringing to justice major bird smug-
gling rings culminated this year in two well publicized “stings”.
The first was conducted with the assistance of a chain of Ohio pet
stores who wanted to help stop the smugglers.

A segment of NBC national news on the bird trade opened
with agents handcufﬁng one of the smugglers in a parking lot and
closed with an admonition from AWI’s President to ban the
wild- caught bird trade.

 
   
  
    
  

Photo: National Zoological Park




Farm
Animals

 

 

To combat the deprivation suffered by hogs reared on factory
farms, AWI began development of a pilot project to label
pork products derived from hogs reared humanely.

Continuing its program of sponsoring visits to American
universities of foreign experts in farm animal behavior, AWI
brought veterinary ethologist, Dr. Bo Algers, from the Swed-
ish UniVersity of Agricultural Sciences, to the University of
Minnesota to assist in developing its studies of hog behavior
and housing alternatives.

Financial Public Education

 

Statement The Animal Welfare Institute is an educational, charitable or-
ganization devoted to reducing the sum total of pain and fear
inﬂicted on animals by man. The major projects delineated in
this annual report are supplemented by the ongoing distribution
of books, films, articles and other educational materials and the
active participation of AWI representatives at the meetings listed
in the report where extensive distribution of accurate informa-
tion through audio—visual and print media and by formal presen-
tations and personal discussions is conducted. AWI constantly
strives to increase the scope and effectiveness of its well estab-
lished programs and projects for the beneﬁt of animals in need.

Statement of Support, Revenue, Expenses and Changes in Fund Balances (Deficit)

 

Support and revenue Unrestricted Restricted 1989 1988
Contributions:
Exotic wild caught bird campaign $ 5,013 $ 5,013 $ 3.004
Elephant campaign 49,675 49,675 40,432
Save the Whales—advertisements 4,673 4,673 28.754
Save the Whales—general 6.029 6,029 73,548
Other contributions $ 63,603 60,665 124,268 187,485
Foundation and trust grants 48,625 72,000 120,625 44,100
Legacies and bequests 47,433 47.433 11.376
Memberships 30,076 30,076 29,859
Sale of publications and reprints 5,157 5.157 4523
Dividend income 10,111 10,111 7,069
Gain on sale of securities 7'556
Other income 938 938 1,013
TOTAL SUPPORT AND REVENUE 205,943 198,055 403,998 439,224
Expenses:
Program services 263,731 104,643 368,374 331,940
Management and general 79,672 5,113 84,805 79,423
Fund raising 9,023 5,767 14,790 28,270
TOTAL EXPENSES 352,426 1 15.543 467,969 439.633
EXCESS (DEFICIENCY) OF SUPPORT
AND REVENUE OVER
EXPENSES (146,483) 82,512 (63,971) (409)
Fund balances at beginning of year 114,671 4.537 119.203 “9517
FUND BALANCES (DEFICI‘D
AT END OF YEAR $ (31,812) $ 87,049 3 55,237 $ 119.208

10

 

 

 




11

 

 

Statement of Functional Expenses-Animal Welfare Institute
Year ending June 30, 1989

Program Services
Public Elephant Management
Education Save The Program and Fund Totals
and Projects Whales Expense Total General Raising 1989 1988

 

 

 

Salaries $ 78,904 $14,685 $ 93,589 $36,284 $ 5,849 $135,722 $156,843
Payroll taxes and employment insurance 7,304 1,135 8,439 2,698 527 11,664 12,973
Medical insurance 9,924 9,924 6,854
Advertising 12,609 $ 1,168 13,777 4,093 17,870 34,432
Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies 41,784 85 41,869 428 42,297 35,233
Printing——AWI Publications 10,295 668 1,838 12,801 7,028 2,186 22,015 4,790
Research, writing and editing 26,690 26,690 26,690 10,902
Grants for Wildlife Protective Research 21,500 1,200 45,000 67,700 67,700 36,500
Conferences, meetings and travel 10,202 346 10,548 1,208 11,756 9,283
Postage, mailing and addressing costs

(except for Quarterlies) 14,919 3,290 98 18,307 2,292 718 21,317 29,948
Stationery, duplicating and office supplies 7,543 151 7,694 9,075 16,769 45,860
Professional services 404 404 11,894 12,298 4,429
Memberships and subscriptions 8,640 1,500 535 10,675 277 10,952 7,566
Acquisition of books and other educational

materials 6,251 1,660 7,911 1,645 9,556 5,050
Schweitzer Medal 10,416 10,416 10.416 7.474
Consultant—Wildlife Protective Research 34,373 34,373 39,373 14,058
Consultant—Computer 679 679
Factory Farming——The Experiment That Failed 12,89it
Miscellaneous 147 147 362 406 915 1,091

TOTAL EXPENSES BEFORE DEPRECIATION 278,968 36,983 49,389 365,340 83,794 13,779 462,913 436,180

3,034 3,034 1,011 1,011 5,056 3,453

TOTALEXPENSES 22 2 m m meals m M M £194.32

Depreciation of fixtures and equipment

A song of the entire financial statement is available upon request to the Animal Welfare Institute
or the New York State Board of Social Welfare, Albany, NY. 12223

Certiﬁed Public Accountants Ernst and Young

 

 

 

Statement

 

Financial

 




AWI

 

Quarterly

 

 

Spring
1989. Vol. 38. No. 1

12

THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 20,000
individuals and organizations including public libraries, deans of
medical and veterinary schools, teachers, scientists and AWI mem-
bers. Following are summaries of some of the main articles published
during the year.

 

Rainforesfs: In Brazil’s Amazonian hinterland, Chico Men-
des, leader of a rubber tappers’ union in the state of Acre was
assassinated. A thorn in the side of land speculators and cattle
ranchers, he had been instrumental in persuading the Inter-
American Development Bank to withhold a $65 million loan
for highway construction in Amazonia. His murder aroused
worldwide condemnation and strengthened the rubber tappers’
resolve to defend their forest and livelihood.

Two months later and in the distant state of Para, Amerin-
dians from 25 tribes, under the leadership of the Kayapo chief,
Paulinho Paiakan, protested the imminent construction of two
huge hydroelectric dams. Some 200 journalists and 20 televi-
sion crews from the world over ensured that the environmental
and forest peoples’ case gained international recognition.

Exxon: The appalling story of how the Exxon Valdez man-
aged to spill 10 million gallons of oil into the Alaskan seas
close inshore, thus turning one of the world’s richest havens
for sea mammals and birds into a grisly graveyard, came under
scrutiny. While Exxon’s half—hearted and wholly incompetent
containment and clean-up strategy contributed mightily to the
scale of the disaster, irresponsible penny pinching by big gov-
ernment and big business was adjudged the root cause of this
desecration of nature. Exxon is eager to pay for drilling in the
Alaska National Wildlife Refuge but it wouldn’t pay for a
double hull for the Exxon Valdez or for competent helmsmen.

Chimpanzees: In a prolonged $4 million libel case the
Austrian pharmaceutical firm Immuno AG lost on all counts in
the appellate division of the Supreme Court of New York.
The firm had sued Shirley McGreal, head of the International
Primate Protection League, and Professor Moor-Jankowski,
editor of the Journal of Medical Primatology, who had pub-
lished a letter by McGreal criticizing Immuno’s plans for use

 

 




 

 

 

of wild-caught chimpanzees. AWI was one of eight animal
welfare groups to submit an amicus brief. Immuno has ap-
pealed the decision.

Parrots: Posing as collectors of exotic birds, agents of the US
Fish and Wildlife Service smashed another big smuggling ring.
The sting broke in May after 20 months of undercover work
during which hundreds of parrots, worth around half a million
dollars, passed through the Singapore/Argentina/Mexico/Cali—
fornia pipeline. The ringleaders’ jail terms could be upwards
of 60 years with fines in excess of $3 million.

A separate article told of a project by an Argentine group
to save the highly endangered Vinaceous Amazon Parrot. This
is encouraging news not least because Argentina is a country
which has shown little environmental conscience.

Laboratory animals Considerable space was devoted to
illustrating and discussing some of the numerous ways in which
the lives of laboratory primates can be made
more bearable. The center pages showed pic-
tures of a laboratory chimpanzee happily en-
gaged in putting a toothbrush, a hairbrush and
a plastic mirror to good use with an overall
caption taken from the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals amendment to the Ani-
mal Welfare Act which reads: “A physical en-
vironment adequate to promote the psychologi-
cal well-being of non-human primates.”

For these social and highly intelligent ani-
mals, a primary cause of stress is boredom.
The cost of relieving it is negligible. Intem-
perate complaints from research facilities that
they will have to spend millions without even
knowing what contributes to psychological
well-being are baseless.

James Mahoney

Pets: Animal dealers in Washington State now
face up to five years in jail and a $10,000 ﬁne
if they sell a stolen or fraudulently obtained
pet to a research facility. The new law also re-
quires all research facilities to keep a file on
every dog and cat—to include photograph, description and
certification of ownership.

  

AWI

 

  

Quarterly

 

Simple pleasures: Doc amuses himself
by brushing his teeth.

 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Summer
1989, Vol. 38, No. 2

 

     
   
   




Meetings

 

 

 

14

Meetings Attended and Speeches Made by
AWI Representatives

Meetings on Wild Caught Bird Trade, August 25, December 14, 1988,
and May 4, 1989, World Wildlife Fund, Washington, DC.

United States Department of Agriculture, Animal Welfare Course for
the Public Veterinary Practice Career Program, Class of 1989, Sep-
tember 3-7, 1988. Beltsville, MD. Christine Stevens spoke on labo—
ratory inspections.

Joint Government-Industry Workshop on Progress towards Non-Ani-
mal Alternatives to the Draize Test, September 14, 1988.
Arlington,VA.

The Psychological Well-Being of Captive Primates, September 17—
18, 1988. Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. AWI literature
distributed.

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science 39th Annual
Meeting, and Canadian Association for Laboratory Animal Science
27th Annual Meeting, October 10-13, 1988, Detroit, MI. AWI booth
exhibit.

Department of Interior meetings on the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species, October 24, 1988, January 17, March
29, & June 13, 1989 Washington, DC.

National Capital Area Branch/American Association for Laboratory
Animal Science 16th Annual Seminar, November 10, 1988, Wash-
ington, D.C. AWI literature distributed.

Humane Society of the United States Annual Conference: Animal
Justice, Political Reality, October 13-15, Crystal City, VA. Christine
Stevens spoke on the wild caught bird trade.

Marine Mammal Protection Act Implementation meeting, December
19, 1988, Washington, DC

Animal Issues and the Greenhouse Effect, Sponsored by Global Green-
house Network, January 23, 1989, Washington, DC.

Demonstration against Japanese whaling, February 1, 1989, facing
Japanese Embassy, Washington, DC.

International Whaling Commission Interagency meetings, February
8, March 9, April 28, and May 18, 1989, Washington,D.C.

 

 




 

Meeting of Eurogroup for Animal Welfare, Strasbourg, France, Feb-
ruary 15, 1989

Meeting on elephant ivory ban with US Department of the Interior,
February 17, 1989, Washington, DC.

American Committee for International Conservation, Inc., March 14,
1989, Washington, DC.

Meeting on Hyatt Waikola Hotel, Dolphin/Human Swim program,
March 15, 1989, Washington, DC.

Presentation to Astrid Lindgren of the Albert Schweitzer Medal by
Congressman Charles Bennett of Florida, at the Swedish Embassy.
AWI Annual Meeting, March 16, 1989, Washington, DC.

Animal Damage Control Committee meeting. US Department of
Agriculture. March 20,21, 1989. Crystal City, VA.

Intergroup for Animal Welfare, European Parliament, March 30, 31,
1989. Brussels, Belgium. 9

Meeting with Dr. Alexey Yablokov, AWI Intemational Committee
member representing the USSR, April 13, 1988. Washington, DC.

National Association of Biology Teachers, April 27—29, 1989, Crystal
City, VA. AWI booth exhibit.

National Institutes of Health /Food and Drug Administration Regional
Conference on Current Ethical Issues in the Protection of Vulnerable
Human Subjects in Clinical, Behavioral and Sociological Research,
May 5, 1989, Omaha, NE. Christine Stevens spoke on “A Perspec-
tive from the Animal Welfare Movement on Cross-Species Trans-
plantation”.

Protest against sales of elephant ivory at the opening of the Intema—
tional Fashion Boutique Show, Jacob Javits Center and 14 Fifth Ave-
nue stores selling ivory, New York City. June 3, 1989.

National Alliance for Animal Legislation. June 9—12, 1989. Wash-
ington, D.C. Christine Stevens spoke on Enforcement of the Animal
Welfare Act and took part in a panel on Federal Regulations on both
domestic and wild animals. AWI literature distributed.

Meetings

 

 

15

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Directors

Gerard Bertrand, PhD.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hollingsworth
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

International Committee

Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain -
Bangladesh

Angela King — United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru - Kenya

David Ricardo - Canada
Godofredo Stutzin - Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan
Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. - Denmark
Professor Alexey Yablokov - U.S.S.R.

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, PhD.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff
Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant
Jessie Despard, Publications Coordinator
Rosita Eek, Administrative Assistant
for Communications
Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for Livestock and Poultry
Lynne Hutchinson, Whale Campaign
Coordinator
Cathy Liss, Research Associate
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Victor Perez, Clerical Assistant
Laura Swedberg, Administrative Assistant
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully ac-
cepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the
Institute’s much-needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the
Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals.
Please remember the Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest:
I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of dollars
(or if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 




 

Animal Welfare Institute
Thirty-Ninth Annual Report
1 July 1989 to 30 June 1990

 

 

 

Agency

ion

t

19a

._.
U)
(D
>

S

Tu

._.
C
(D
E
C
O

.2
>
C

L”

 




The Protection of the African Elephant

 

 

The Fight in Lausanne

A major victory in the long war against the ivory trade was achieved at the
1989 meeting in Lausanne, Switzerland of the Convention on Interna-
tional Trade in Endangered Species. AWI threw all the resources at its
command into the events leading up to CITES ’ seventh bi-annual meeting.
We had a booth near the entrance of the huge hall where delegates of the
member countries assembled. The constantly running videotapes showing
how the ivory dealers were driving the African Elephant to extinction
played a significant role in obtainin g the 76 to 1 1 vote to place the African
Elephant on Appendix I of the convention, thus banning international trade
in ivory.

The Environmental Investigation Agency shot footage for the ITN/
TV tape, and they wrote the report, A System of Extinction, that docu—
mented the deadly criminal activity that had reduced the African elephant
from a population from 1,500,000 in 1979 to a mere 650,000 throughout
the entire continent, where tens of millions once roamed.

AWI’s hard hitting leaﬂets were distributed widely from the booth,
and each day, Craig Van Note, Executive Vice-President of the Monitor
Consortium, brought piles of photocopies of news stories on the plight of
the elephants from the American, British, European and African press,
and, when it appeared during the second week of the Conference, copies
of Time magazine whose cover story on elephants pulled no punches.

The AWI representatives lobbied hard against stiff opposition, which
included the CITES Secretariat itself, and many organizations represent—
ing commercial trade in ivory and other wildlife products, as well as the
nations that objected to classifying the African elephant as an Appendix I
(endangered) species.

The Rostropovich Recording of Saint-Sae'ns Elephant Music

Mstislav Rostropovich, the world’s greatest cellist, was so moved by the
plight of the elephants that he offered to host a benefit dinner in their aid
at the new apartment he and his wife Galina had just moved into in
Washington. At the dinner he announced a surprise. He had transposed the
elephant music from Saint-Saéns’ “Carnival of the Animals” into a minor
key, expressing as he said, "During the time Saint-Saéns wrote his famous
Carnival of the Animals, elephants were plentiful. They were happy to be
alive, to love and have babies. Therefore, I think, Saint-Saéns wrote the
part dedicated to elephants in a major key. Now, when they are in danger




 

 

of extinction, I'm sure they know it. They, without benefit of judge or jury,
through no fault of their own, are being put to death for their beautiful
tusks. Now, as the music dedicated to them must sound sad in a minor key,
I will try to recreate the state of their souls today."

Later, at the request of AWI, he made a tape recording which we
presented to each head of delegation at the CITES meeting. In addition,
many copies were sold in aid of the elephant campaign.

“A System of Extinction”

Justbefore the Lausanne meeting, the Environmental Investigation Agency
issued a report containing 48 closely packed pages that included photo-
graphs of the main players in the secretive international ivory trade. The
deceptive role the CITES secretariat has played in the destruction of
African Elephants is made clear through interviews and documents. Major
dealers - the Poon’s, K.T. Wang, the Lai family, Zully Rahemtullah,
Chon g Pong, and Ian Parker, ivory trader, scientist, author, and advisor to
the CITES secretariat - all appear in this remarkable publication, and we
get to know them all as the tale unfolds. Rowan Martin of the Zimbabwe
Wildlife Department, who wants to keep the international trade going,
asserts absurdly “our elephants start to breed at the age of seven and give
birth at nine years.” He’s still fighting, as we go to press,to sell tusks from
elephants killed in Zimbabwe, an unknown number of whom have been
attracted to that country’s artificial water holes from neighboring
countries.

AWI is proud to have contributed to EIA’s bold investigations and
unprecedented documentation exposing the cruel and sordid "System of
Extinction".

 




  

Exploitation of Wild Caught Birds

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

AWI is the foremost compiler and disseminator of the shocking facts on
the commercial bird trade. Leading authority, Greta Nilsson, AWI Wild-
life Consultant, completed two major volumes on the bird trade during the
year: “Importation of Birds into the United States 1985” and “Importation
of Birds into the United States 1986-1988.” The first volume (230 pages)
was completed just in time to be submitted to CITES delegates at the
October, 1989 meeting. '

EIA’s documentary ﬁlm on the bird trade in Senegal was shown
throughout the meeting.

AWI has taken part in a series of meetings arranged by the World
Wildlife Fund (WWF) in
which representatives of
the industry, both import-
ers and breeders, zoos,
avian veterinarians and
national conservation and
humane organizations dis-
cussed recommendations
for legislation. WWF in-
vited participation on the
understanding that impor-
tation of wild-caughtbirds
for the pet trade would be
phased out within five
years. It is in the massive
pet trade shipments that
enormous mortality with

Dave Currey - EIA

 

Senegal parrots packed in an air transport case at Dakar the accompanying suffer-
airport,Senegal.AbouIIOmillz'onbirdsareexportedannually. ing has been so thor-

 

oughly documented by
AWI. Reduction in mortality occurred temporarily when AWI led a group
of humane organizations in filing a law suit against the US Department of
the Interior when the Department withdrew its Humane and Healthful
Transport of Wild Mammals and Birds regulations. The successful suit
was prepared pro bono by Ray Bolze of Howrey and Simon.

Big importers, fearing enforcement, cut back temporarily on finch
exports, but when active enforcement was held up waiting for revised
regulations, they went back to their old habits. For example, the biggest
bird dealer in the United States imported 4800 finches, packed 400 to a
crate. Of these 4800 birds, 1093 were dead on arrival. In 1989, 452,000
birds died, an increase over 1988.

 

  




International, national and local bans are sorely needed, no wild
caught birds should be imported for sale as pets.

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals

 

The protracted delay and constant pressure for weakening proposed regu-
lations for part 3 of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
(ISLA) amendments to the Animal Welfare Act have dragged on through-
out the year. Final regulations for parts 1 and 2 were published August 31,
1989.

On 29 June, 1990 Senators Cranston, Dole, Reid, Cochran, Biden,
Mitchell, Pell, Akaka, Burdick, Jeffords and Ford wrote Richard Darman,
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) “In your con-
sideration of these regulations we urge you to make certain that they reﬂect
the intent of Congress that specific standards be adopted, particularly for
the psychological well-being of non—human primates and for the exercise
of laboratory dogs If, in fact, performance standards were effective and
enforceable we would likely not have needed the 1985 amendments in
order to assure the humane treatment of laboratory animals.” Many other
members of Congress have written individual letters to the Director of
OMB expressing similar views.

The final outcome remains unknown as we go to press, but strong
disagreements within the administration are reportedly continuing. AWI
provides solid information to the agencies on which regulations express-
ing the will of Congress can and should be based.*

Humane Biology Education

 

With a generous grant from the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation AWI
intensified its educational programs on humane biology teaching. Dr.
Barbara Orlans, representing AWI, gave a series of lectures and work-
shops throughout the United States at biology teachers’ conventions and
to student groups at universities. The purpose was to promote more
humane practices by providing practical instruction on alternatives that do
not harm or kill animals and to explain the rationale for not harming

 

*Revised, reproposed regulations on part 3 of the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals regulations were published for public comment
August 15, 1990.

 




  

animals in biology instruction and for avoiding dissection. At these
events, a considerable amount of free instructional material was given to
the teachers to help them use humane projects in their classrooms. A
number of articles by Dr. Orlans on humane classroom practices were
published in biology teachers’ journals. In addition, AWI ran exhibition
booths at conventions of the National Science Teachers Association and
the National Association of Biology Teachers. Copies of AWI’s humane
rules, first enunciated by AWI some thirty years ago, which state that
elementary and secondary school students should not inﬂict harm on
vertebrate animals, were distributed, and single copies of The Endangered
Species Handbook AWI’s 261-page illustrated publication were provided
free of charge to thousands of appreciative teachers.

Significant progress was demonstrated when, for the first time ever,
the National Association of Biology Teachers announced an ofﬁcial
policy in favor of alternatives to dissection and vivisection.

Trapping

 

Congressman James Scheuer (D, NY), on April 24, 1990, introduced
legislation to end the use of the steel jaw leghold trap. He was joined by
47 co-sponsors. In introducing the bill, he stated: “The steel jaw trap snaps

 

 




    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
    
 
 

closed on the limb of an animal as it steps into the trap. It does not kill it.
It causes excruciating pain for hours or perhaps days until a hunter comes
along and dispatches it or until it bleeds or starves to death. Sometimes the
‘. animal frees itself by gnawing off its own limb in desperation, despair, and 1

panic.” ;

Congressman Scheuer spoke of the regulation proposed by the Euro-
pean Commission to ban imports into the European Community of wild
furs from nations that continue to permit use of the steel jaw leghold trap.
The proposal was submitted to the European Parliament’s Environment
Committee where it was the subject of much discussion.

The Canadian fur industry arranged a trip to Canada for a few Com—
mittee members to meet with native trappers, to visit Vegreville where ex-
perimentation with traps has been going on for many years, and to visit a

working trap line, supposedly to give the Parliamentarians firsthand
experience of steel jaw trapping. But the only animal they were shown was
a solidly frozen dead muskrat hauled up from under the ice. Clearly, the
industry has no intention of letting the Parliamentarians see an agonized
animal in a steel jaw trap.

But AWI was determined that all the Members of the Parliament have
the facts about the hideous, unnecessary cruelty to millions of animals
caused by the use of this barbaric device. We sent personal letters and
copies of our series of authoritative monographs on less cruel alternatives
to each Member of the European Parliament (MEP) in May of this year.

AWI also succeeded in obtaining an invitation from Indigenous Sur-
vival International to speak at the meeting scheduled for the MEPs at the

“El office of the Chiefs of Ontario in Toronto. AWI’s reasoned discourse
”2.6!“ helped offset the biased views so frequently expressed by the sponsors of
ﬁn; the tour.

53%,?" The Environment Committee’s Report was not acted on by the Euro—

pean Parliament within the period covered by AWI’s annual report.*

Whales and Dolphins

 

     
     
 
    
   

The biggest breakthrough in cetacean protection this year was the decision
by the world’ s largest tuna canner to stop buying tuna caught in association
with dolphins. The H. J. Heinz Company’ 3 StarKist tuna now carries
“Dolphin Safe” labels.

 

 
 

* The debate was held on July 13 and the vote on September 10, 1990.
Parliament's recommendation to impose the ban from January, 1995
onwards now goes to the European Commission and Council for action.




 

Senator Joseph Biden’s (D, DE) and Representative Barbara Boxer’ 3
(D, CA) tuna labeling bills, which would force foreign ﬂeets to stop setting
on dolphins, are supported by Heinz and other companies carrying dolphin
safe labels.

Sam LaB udde’ s undercover video, which brought the nation’ 3 televi-
sion viewers the ghastly sight of trapped dolphins crying in vain to be
released from the giant purse seines, played an important role in Heinz’s
action. AWI contributed to this presentation.

The next major effort was concentrated on preparation for the meeting
of the International Whaling Commission in Noordwijk, The Netherlands,
scheduled later than usual this year.*

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly featured articles on whales
and dolphins in the issue to be distributed to the delegates from each
member nation. An article by Roger Payne, world famous authority on
whales, who is a member of AWI’s Scientiﬁc Committee, points to severe
and growing dangers to cetaceans from pollutants. Dr. Payne states, “. . .
PCBs have recently been found in porpoises in concentrations so high that
some of the porpoises’ tissues could, in theory, qualify for designation as
Super Fund sites.”

An article by Dave Currey of the Environmental Investigation Agency
(EIA), based on firsthand observations, tells how 67% of the Dall’s
porpoise populations in the vicinity of Japan have been harpooned for the
whale meat market in the last three years alone. EIA produced The Global
War Against Small Cetaceans, the first comprehensive report on the
subject ever compiled. It calls for international protection for 65 species
of dolphins and small whales, including belugas and narwhals hunted in
arctic waters. AWI contributed to this important work by EIA and strongly
supports inclusion of small cetaceans in the International Whaling
Commission’s mandate.

The second supplement to AWI’s Whales vs. Whalers, A Continuing
Commentary was published this year, bringing this history of the Save the
Whales campaign up to the present. Starting in 1971, each article which
has appeared in The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly on whales and
whaling has been included in the compilation. Hindsight has been auto-
matically dispensed with, so the reader views the struggle as it evolved and
as it continues.

Thanks to a generous donor, AWI continues its educational advertise-
ments in major newspapers and magazines telling friends of whales where
to direct their protests to protect the whales.

 

* July 2-6, 1990, just beyond the range of this Annual Report.

 

“a?




Farm Animals

 

Favorable television, radio, newspaper and farm press attention was given
this year to AWI’s pilot project for humanely raised pigs. Under AWI’s
“Pastureland Farms” program, pigs are free to move about on pasture or
in bedded pens instead of being imprisoned for life in sow stalls, farrowing
crates or bare concrete pens.

Four hours of profes sionally filmed video footage of the “Pastureland
Farms” project were donated by a concerned freelance CBS cameraman
and are being edited for viewing by independent farmers and others who
want pigs to be given a chance to live their brief lives free of cruelty
imposed by pork factory practices.

While numerous independent farmers have expressed interest in
following AWI’s example, the trend toward massive hog factories has not
slowed, and it is often predicted that the so-called “vertical integration” of
the poultry industry will be repeated by the pork industry, with fewer and
bigger‘corporations controlling the market. In a recent showdown be-
tween three industrial giants, Peter Coors (of Coors beer) and oil and
railroad magnate Philip Anschutz opposed construction of a 15 ,000—sow
factory farm in Colorado by the billionaire Bass Brothers of Fort Worth,
Texas. Opposition by Anschutz, Coors, and family farm and environ-
mental groups led to the offering of a referendum that would have required
the Bass Brothers to build a $10 million manure treatment facility. But the
referendum was defeated by voters and the enormous factory farm, where
thousands of sows are compelled to spend their lives barred into a space
too narrow to turn around in, is being built as planned.

 

Public Education

 

The Animal Welfare Institute is an educational, charitable organization
devoted to reducing the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by
man. The major projects delineated in this Annual Report are supple-
mented by the ongoing distribution of books, films, articles and other
educational materials and the active participation of AWI representatives
at the meetings listed in the report where extensive distribution of accurate
information through audio-visual and print media and by formal presen-
tations and personal discussions is conducted. AWI constantly strives to
increase the scope and effectiveness of its well established programs and
projects for the benefit of animals in need.

“a:

 




Meetings Attended and Speeches

 

Made by AWI Representatives

 

International Symposium on the Control of the Use of Animals in Research, July
7-8, 1989, Ottawa, Canada, Christine Stevens spoke on “Voluntary Control versus
Legislation: An Assessment of the Existing Systems in the U.S.”

National Public Radio, American University, Christine Stevens debate with Dr
John Miller (National Institutes of Health), July 17, 1989.

Tufts Workshop on Alternatives, August 23, 1989, Washington, DC.

American Food and Drug Law Institute, Animal Testing: The Present and the
Future, September 7, 1989, Washington, DC.

Fish & Wildlife Service meeting on the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species, September 8, 1989, US Department of Interior, Washington,
DC. _

American Humane Association Convention, September 13, 1989, Orlando, FL,
Christine Stevens spoke on “Trade in Exotic Species.”

National Capital Area Branch/American Association for Laboratory Animal Sci-
ence, September 13 and 14, 1989, Hunt Valley, MD.

Elephants in Crisis, WHAM TV interview, Paul Schindler of the African Wildlife
Foundation and Christine Stevens, October 16, 1989.

Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, October 9-20, 1989,
Lausanne, Switzerland, AWI booth.

National Science Teachers Association, October 12-14, 1989, Milwaukee, WI,
AWI presentation on dissection by Dr. Barbara Orlans.

National Association of Biology Teachers, October 25-26, 1989,
San Diego, CA, AWI booth and presentation on dissection by Dr. Orlans.

National Science Teachers Association, October 26—28, 1989, Tulsa, OK, AWI
presentation on dissection by Dr. Orlans.

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science’s annual meeting, October
29—November 2, 1989, Little Rock, AK, AWI booth.

United States Animal Health Association, Annual Meeting, Animal Welfare Com-
mittee, October 31, 1989, Las Vegas, NV, AWI presentation by Cathy Liss.

Interview with Christine Stevens on Evelyn DiB ona's television program, N ovem-
ber 2, 1989, Northern Virginia Community College.

National Science Teachers Association, November 30 to December 2, 1989,
Phoenix, AZ, AWI presentation on dissection by Dr Orlans.

Dolphin Coalition Meeting, November 15, 1989, Defenders of Wildlife, Washing-
ton, DC.

10

 




National Institutes of Health, Animal Care and Use Conference, November 16, 17,
1989, Bethesda, MD.

Meeting on inclusion of rats and mice under the Animal Welfare Act, US
Department of Agriculture, November 17, 1989, Washington, DC.

Cetacean Strategy Meeting, November 30-December 1, 1989, Humane Society of
the United States, Washington, DC.

Training session for new veterinarians in Regulatory Enforcement and Animal
Care of the US Department of Agriculture, December 12, 1989, Beltsville, MD,
Christine Stevens spoke on “Overview of the Animal Welfare Act from the Animal
Welfare Institute’s VieWpoint.”

National Science Teachers Association, regional meeting, December 14-16, 1989,
Atlantic City, NJ, AWI exhibit booth.

Meeting with Prof. Oleg Kasabov of the USSR All Union Society for Animals
Protection, January 11, 1990.

Cooperative Working Group on Bird Trade, World Wildlife Fund, August 24,
1989, September 21, 1989, January 18-19, 1990, Washington, DC.

Monkey Behavior and Laboratory Issues, Ofﬁce of Animal C are and Use, National
Institutes of Health, January 26, 1990, Bethesda, MD.

Elephant group meeting, February 2, 1990, Howrey and Simon, Washington, DC.
World Wildlife Fund driftnet meeting, February 6, 1990, Washington, DC.

Use of Animals in Biomedical Research, Symposium of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, February 18, 1990, New Orleans, LA.

Meeting on European Commission’s proposed regulation to ban fur from countries
not prohibiting the steel jaw leghold trap, Chiefs of Ontario offices, February 19,
1990, Toronto, Canada, AWI presentation by John Gleiber.

Keystone Pork Congress, February 21, 1990, Harrisburg, PA, AWI literature dis-
tributed and presentation by Cathy Liss.

PRIM+R annual meeting, March 18-19, 1990, Boston, MA, Workshops, An
Analysis of the Animal Research Debate: The Animal Protection Movement, Past,
Present, and Future, William Cotreau gave presentation and led discussion.

Missouri Pork Producers, Agriculture Leaders of Tomorrow, US Department of
Agriculture, March 19, 1990, Washington, DC, presentation by Christine Stevens.

Organic-Sustainable Agriculture Conference, March 23, 1990, Washington, DC.
Whale group meeting, April 20, 1990, Arnold & Porter, Washington, DC.

International Whaling Commission Interagency Meetings, Dec 15, 1989, Febru—
ary 16, April 12, 1990, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
Department of Commerce, Washington, DC.

11

 

 




 

12

QUARTERLY

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 20,000
individuals and organizations including public libraries, deans of medical
and veterinary schools, animal protective organizations, teachers, scien-
tists and AWI members. Following are summaries of some of the articles
not mentioned in the main body of this Annual Report.

FALL - WINTER 1989/90, Vol. 38, NOS. 3 & 4

 

Primates. Three pages of quotations from Housing, Care and Psy-
chological Wellbeing of Captive and Laboratory Primates gave readers a
taste of this landmark book whose 544 pages are packed with information
by 50 experienced authors. A reprint of the quotations was converted into
a leaﬂet for wider distribution by AWI to assist in achieving the psycho-
logical wellbeing of primates mandated by Congress in 1985.

Japan. Yoko Muto, 1977 Schweitzer Medalist, still continues her
devoted care of animals in the University of Tokyo Medical College,
making soft beds for the dogs in experimental surgery, cooking them soup,
and giving pain-relieving drugs. “What we can do for them is to reduce
their pain and to give comfort to them for their short lives,” she says. She
disregards her own distress: “I know that someone should do this,
therefore I do.”

Dolphins. The United Nations adopted a resolution to ban driftnet
fishing in the South Pacific by July 1991 and impose a worldwide mora—
torium by June 1992.

Dolphins are being killed for shark and crab bait in Venezuela and
Chile.

American Medical Association. The AMA's “Animal Research Ac-
tion Plan” contains advice from its public relations team to “Address the
public’ 5 most pressing concerns of inhumane treatment of lab animals and
needless repetition of experiments using animals.” AWI made six basic
recommendations on addressing these well-founded concerns, but none
have been adopted by the AMA.

SPRING 1990, Vol. 39, N0. 1

 

Wild Horses. Not all cruel research is confined to laboratories.
Funded by a contract from the Bureau of Land Management, the Univer-
sity of Minnesota killed, injured and harassed many of the wild mares on




which they did field surgery. The collars they attached were so tight that
some of the animals died of infection. Others died of thirst when they were
unable to find their way to water after having been pursued by helicopter.
The Governor of Nevada, Bob Miller, called for cancellation of helicopter
ﬂy-overs after a brave BLM staff member blew the whistle, reminding
BLM of its own policy to prevent young foals that can ’ t keep up from being
lost, and mares from aborting. BLM stopped the University of Minnesota
ﬂy-overs.

Brazil. Jose Lutzenberger, Brazil’s foremost environmentalist, was
appointed by newly elected President Fernando Collor de Mello to serve
as Secretary of the Environment. Collor ordered illegal landing strips built
by gold miners to be dynamited, and it is hoped he will prevent building
of the controversial road linking Brazil’s forests with Peru’s Pacific Coast.

Mexico. The Group of 100 reported on the cruelty and destruction of
tens of thousands of endangered sea turtles. Letters of protest to Mexico’ 3
President Carlos Salinas de Gotari were urged. [The protest was success-
ful. Turtle killing was banned by Presidential decree]

U.S. Old Growth Forests. We’re paying a billion tax dollars a year
to support a timber industry bonanza and supply Japan with logs from our
ancient trees as Countless native birds lose their homes.

Monkey Import Ban. The Centers for Disease Control, following
the lead of the New York State Health Department, suspended imports
because of fears of ebola virus found in monkeys from the Philippines. The
three major dealers were found to have deficiencies in quarantine: Charles
River Primates Corporation, Hazelton Research Products, Inc., and
Worldwide Primates owned by Matthew Block.

Forensics Lab to Protect Wildlife. A $4.5 million laboratory pro-
vidin g scientific/legal expertise similar to that used to prove guilt in crimes
against humans has been established in Ashland, Oregon, for the Law
Enforcement Division of the US. Fish and Wildlife Service and the U.S°
Customs Service to prove cases against wildlife criminals.

Gorilla Smuggler Jailed. Walter Sensen, Germany’s big interna-
tional animal dealer, is in jail for two years after Nuremberg police
inspected his business records, but his son is still operating out of
Equatorial Guinea.

SUMMER 1990, Vol.39, No.2

 

Creature Discomforts, by Gwen Rubenstein of the Government In-
formation Insider, explains how the Office of Management and Budget
has interfered, delayed and disguised its analysis of the regulations
proposed by Agriculture for the Improved Standards for Laboratory

13

 

 




Animals amendments to the Animal Welfare Act.

Intensive Egg, Chicken and Turkey Production. A painfully accu-
rate description from a British group named Chicken’s Lib.

Icelandic Whale Watching. Is it possible? This study suggests it is.
Fifteen cetacean species frequent inshore waters in the summer and could
bring European tourists to Iceland to see whales in the wild.

Soviets Seize Driftnet Fleet. Ten North Korean vessels illegally
fishing for salmon were found by the USSR to be directed by Japanese
fishing companies. Most of the crew were Japanese.

Financial Statement

 

Statement of Support, Revenue, Expenses and Changes in Fund Balances (Deficit)

 

Support and revenue Unrestricted Restricted 1990 1989
Contributions:
Exotic wild caught bird campaign $ 5.013
Elephant campaign $ 65,824 $ 65,824 49,675
Save the Whales campaign 117.199 117.199 10.702
Pastureland Farms grant 50,618 50,618
Other contributions $ 164.460 194.460 124.268
Foundation and trust grants 61,500 30.000 91.500 120.625
Legacies and bequests 311.642 311,642 47,433
Memberships 25,656 25.646 30,076
Sale of publications and reprints 8,059 8.059 5,157
Dividend income 15,989 15,989 10,111
Loss on sale of securities ( 3,963) ( 3.963) '0'
Other income 864 864 38
TOTAL SUPPORT AND REVENUE 584,207 263,641 847,848 403,998
Expenses:
Program services 284,072 266,028 550.100 368.374
Management and general 90,231 7,280 97,511 84 .805
Fund raising 14.680 14.843 29,523 14,790
TOTAL EXPENSES 388.983 288,151 677.134 467.969
EXCESS (DEFICIENCY ) OF SUPPORT
AND REVENUE OVER
EXPENSES 195.224 ( 24.510) 170.714 (63.971)
Fund balances at beginning of year ( 31.812) 87.049 55.237 119.208
Prior Period Adjustment 519 519

FUND BALANCES (DEFICIT)
AT END OF YEAR $ 163,931 $ 62,539 $ 226,470 $ 55.237

 




 

 

Statement of Functional Expenses-Animal Welfare Institute
Year ending June 30, 1990

Public

Educaﬁon &

Salaries
Payroll taxes and employment insurance
Medical insurance
Advertising
Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies
Printing -AWl Publications
Research, writing and editing
Grants
Conferences, meetings and travel
Postage, mailing and addressing costs
(except for Quarterlies)
Stationery, duplicating and office supplies
Professional services
Memberships and subscriptions
Acquisition of books and other educational mate
Schweitzer Medal
Consulting Fee
Consultant-Wildlife Protective Research
Consultant-Computer
Animals and Their Legal Rights
Posters, Flyers & Shirts
Elephant Benefit
Miscellaneous
TOTAL EXPENSES BEFORE DEPRECIATION
Depreciation of fixtures and equipment

TOTAL EXPENSES

[19132915

$90,573
8,568

43,507
22,516
12,884
43,000
20,875

23,426
8,677
5,365
7,961
5,752

8,310
6,700

4,626

699
313,439
3,814

$317,253

Save The
Whales

$15,827
1,252

41,435
5,153

11,500
1,731

3,180
332

573
55

1359

164
82,561

$82,561

Elephant Bird

Program Services
Pastureland
Farms
Program
Expenses

Program Program

Expense Expenses

13,297 14,004 6,737
47,800 6,000

260 549

10,612
1,965

3,342 135 1,473
655 38 715
156 7,759

2,691 20
244 10 74

900
29,250

1,600

68,289 50,142 31,855

$68,289 $50,142 $31,855

TQIal

$106,400
9,820

41,435
43,507
61,707
12,884
118,912
25,380

31,556
10,417
13,280
11,245

6,135

9210
35,950

4,626
1,359

2,463
546,286
3,814

$550,100

Management

and
general

$39,000
5,145
11,342

4,817

601

6,103
10,764
15,767

1,849

364

445
96,239
1,272

$97,511

Fund
Raising
$6,650
614

7,719
1,592
5,123

3,110

508

132
2,804

28,252
1,271

$29,523

Totals

1.99.9

$152,050
15,579
11,342
49,154
45,099
71,647
12,884
118,912
25,981

40,769
21,181
29,555

11,287
7,984

9210
35,950
364
4,626
1,491
2,804
2,908
670,777
6,357

$677,134

1.9.8.9

$135,722
11,664
9,924
17,870
42,297
22,015
26,690
67,700
11,756

21,317
16,769
12,298
10,952

9,556
10,416

34,373
679

915
462,913
5,056

$467,969

 

A copy of the entire financial statement is available upon request to the AnimalWelfare Institute

or the New York State Board of Social Welfare, Albany, N.Y. 1 2223

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Directors

Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hollingsworth
Freebom G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Ofﬁcers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Sectretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

International Committee

Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain - Bangladesh
Angela King - United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru - Kenya

David Ricardo - Canada

Godofredo Stutzin - Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan

Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. - Denmark
Prof. Alexey Yablokov, U.S.S.R.

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

William J. Cotreau, Research Associate
Rosita Eck, Administrative Assistant
for Communications

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for Livestock and Poultry

Henry Herbermann, Publications
Coordinator

Lynne Hutchinson, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Lydia Swart, Research Assistant

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing ~ .
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully ac-
cepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the
Institute’s much-needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the
Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals.
Please remember the Institute in your will.

S uggested form of bequest:
I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of
(or if other property, describe the property).

dollars

 

 

 

 




Animal Welfare Institute

Fortieth Annual Report
1 July 1990 to 30 June 1991

E
2
Q
E7
33.
E
.5
E
'E‘
:5

 




 

 

Laboratory Animals

At long last, on February 14, 1991, ﬁnal regulations were published for
the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments to the
federal Animal Welfare Act. Unfortunately, many highly desirable
regulations were dropped owing to extreme, long-lasting pressure from
the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB), and the National Association for Biomedical Research.
However, the Department of Agriculture did succeed in getting a consid-
erable number of valuable and much-needed regulations through the
obstacle course erected by these opponents. But two Congressional
mandates— exercise for laboratory dogs and a physical environment
adequate to promote the psychological well-being of monkeys and apes
—- were reduced to unenforceable "plans" to be made by the research
facilities themselves.

The extraordinary maneuvers involved attracted the attention of OMB
Watch, a public interest group that monitors the activities of the Office of
Management and Budget. This is how OMB Watch describes the tortuous
process: "Delay. Substantive interference. Misleading analysis. These
are just three of the ways the OMB can undercut agency authority, and
often Congressional intent, through the regulatory review process . . . The
Department of Agriculture’s Animal Welfare Standards have been the
subject of all the tools at OMB ’s disposal at one time or another. This rule
has been delayed and returned, dissembled and redrafted, and generally,
given the runaround."

To seek redress in the courts, the Animal Legal Defense Fund has filed a
lawsuit against the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services and the Director of OMB. The case has not yet come to
trial. We hope that the separation of powers on which our government is
built will be effective in providing decent treatment for laboratory dogs
and primates. As Senator Dole and ten other Senators wrote to the Director
of OMB, "Not only must the 1985 Amendments be enforceable, but
implementation must lead to measurable improvements in animal care."
Since the executive branch has failed to carry out the will of the legislative
branch, the judicial branch of our government should impose the final
judgment.

Throughout the year, AWI representatives have continued to monitor and
to supply information and advice to the Department of Agriculture on the
administration of the Animal Welfare Act. This Act is the United States'
main federal law to protect animals. Without the sustained interest of AWI
and its companion organization, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, which works to obtain funding for enforcement of the Act,
laboratory animals would have virtually no protection by law.

 




 

 

This monkey cannot make the "normal postural adjustments" mandated by law.
"Professional judgment" covers a multitude of sins.

AWI will continue to fight hard against the forces who are seeking to
reverse the progress made since the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was
passed in 1966. Humanitarians who have followed the law's genesis will
recall that NIH sought to substitute itself for the Department of Agriculture
just before the U. S. Senate passed the bill. Last year, an amendment was
very nearly slipped in as a "rider" to a bill being passed by the Senate; had
it been adopted, the NIH "Guide on the Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals" would have been substituted for regulations promulgated by the
U. S. Department of Agriculture. This "Guide" leaves decision-making to
the "professional judgment" of the veterinarians employed by laborato-
ries. Constant vigilance is necessary to hold on to the Animal Welfare Act
and maintain its enforcement. Demand for more frequent inspections of
laboratories and dealers' premises should be expressed to the Secretary of
Agriculture by all humanitarians.

Publications

 

The fourth edition of Animals and Their Legal Rights was nearly ex-
hausted during the year, and funds for a second printing of another 10,000
copies are now being sought by AWI. The demand by public libraries,
chiefs of police and humane societies for single free copies was greater
than for any previous edition, and AWI's policy of selling the book at cost
price in order to ensure its wide use also contributes to the demand.

AWI members who are especially interested in protection for laboratory
animals will ﬁnd the chapter on this issue useful as background to the

 




 

lawsuit described in the "Laboratory Animals" section of this report.
Members may obtain a copy on payment of their dues for the year.

The major publication currently in progress is the AWI book on animal
dealers. This is an extensive undertaking, including, as it does, inspections
by AWI of the premises of dog and cat dealers supplying laboratories from
1952 onwards, reports by experts on dealers in primates and wild birds, and
economic evaluation of the role of the multinational laboratory animal
breeders and dealers. We hope to publish within the coming year.

 

Trapping

Important progress was made in the European Community during the year
to end the use of the steel jaw leghold trap. The Eur0pean Parliament voted
a recommendation that the Commission presented in the form of a
Regulation to the governing body, the Council of Ministers. A Regulation,
once adopted, is mandatory law for all the 12 member nations of the
European Community.

The Commission's proposed Regulation would prohibit the use of leghold
traps and importation into the Community of "pelts and manufactured
goods of certain wild animal species caught by means of this device."

On June 13, 1991,
the Council of Min-
g isters meeting in
9 Luxembourg con-
; _ sidered the Regula-
5 i. _ “ tion and adopted it

’ ‘ in principle. How-
ever, BriceLalonde,
Minister of the
Environment for
France, registered
an objection to the
phraseology on the
A dead coyote who nearly succeeded in freeing himself from the trap. H6 indicamd
steel jaw trap by severing his own foot. that French farmers
wanted to use so-called "padded" steel jaw traps for animal control.
Informed sources indicated that the powerful French hunting lobby had
intervened with the government to avoid a unanimous vote for the
Regulation. Eleven of the 12 nations who form the European Community
cast their votes in favor of it. *

 
 
 
 
  
   

In the United States, the National Trappers Association vowed to prevent
its passage and issued urgent appeals for funds to pay for the European trip
its representatives made to oppose the Regulation. The U. S. Trade

* On November 4, 1991 all 12 member nations approved the Regulation.

 




Representative’s ofﬁce sent a staff member to raise objections to the
proposed ban. He was accompanied by a leading apologist for the steel
jaw leghold trap from the State of Louisiana.

Meantime, the major U. S. trap manufacturer, The Woodstream Corpora-
tion, was sold to the EKCO Group, a manufacturer of housewares.

According to recent information provided by EKCO, trap sales have
dropped from $4-5 million down to less than $500,000.

The price of wild fur, most of which is obtained from animals caught by
steel jaw leghold traps, has plummeted. Trapper enthusiasm wanes with
the loss in fur income, and as a result fewer animals are trapped.

A review of statistics from 24 state game departments obtained by the Fund
for Animals illustrates a drop of 77% in the number of furbearers killed
from 1980 to 1990. Here are some of the dramatic drops in animal deaths:

 

State 1980 1990 State 1980 1990

Alabama 200,729 5,631 North Carolina 227,341 13,893
Arizona 65,964 3,720 Oklahoma 60,473 2,983
Georgia 120,710 15,119 South Dakota 179,800 18,500
Kansas 160,327 1,878 Texas 991,426 104,812

Whales and Dolphins

 

AWI backed publication by the Environmental Investigation Agency of
the second report in the series entitled The Global War Against Small
Cetaceans. The appalling slaughter of these charming, friendly little
whales and dolphins of a wide variety of species is even more shameful and
incomprehensible than the killing to near extinction of ten species of great
whales for their meat and oil.

There is but little commercial incentive to kill dolphins, yet in Chile
Commerson's dolphins and the dusky dolphin are threatened by killing for
crab bait.

In Japan, Dall's porpoise are speared with a hand harpoon that resembles
the cold harpoon banned by the International Whaling Commission (IW C)
in 1983. It has a steel, detachable head. After striking the porpoise, a steel
cable attached to the boat holds it while the boat goes on to strike more
members of the porpoise school. Death is caused by further spearin g of the
porpoise or by applying an electrical shock through the steel harpoon
head. Despite the grave danger to this beautiful species, its consumption
is promoted by canneries who sell it as "mini kujira" (small whale). It has
even reached the supermarket trade.

In the Faroe Islands, which enjoys a very high standard of living, pilot
whales are driven and gaffed in a sea of blood each year for the sake of
tradition and sport more than for meat, which is often wasted.

 

 




 

 

Several species of
dolphin have been
reduced to popula-
tions in the low hun-
dreds: the Mexican
vaquita, the Yangtze
dolphin, and the
Indus Riverdolphin.
The United States,
joined by 12 other
countries, proposed
a resolution at the
1991 meeting of the
IWC protective of
these endangered species. But, at the last moment, the resolution was
withdrawn so it could not be voted on!

Unlike the 1990 meeting of the IWC in the Netherlands, this year's meeting
in Iceland favored the whalers rather than the whales. Iceland actually
withdrew from the IWC, though they have until next year's meeting in
Glasgow to decide whether to go through with it. They denied the report
issued by the Environmental Investigation Agency that they had sold most
of the meat from their "Scientific Whaling" enterprise to Japan, contrary
to the formal agreement made with the IWC. But they offered no
documentary proof for their statement and said they were conducting an
inquiry. So far, no results of the inquiry have surfaced.

"Management" of whales has never worked. In 1946, the IWC "managed"
whales by designating the different species as constituting various frac-
tions of "the blue whale unit": whalers could harpoon 2 fin whales, 2.5
humpback whales, or 6 sei whales as the equivalent of a blue whale, the
biggest mammal in the world It didn't take long to drive the blue whale to
commercial extinction, and the "whalers' club," as the IWC was commonly
referred to, put the blue whale on the "protect " list when, in the 1964-65
whaling season, no more than 20 couldbe found in the entire Antarctic. All
the great whales were on the road to extermination when Interior Secretary
Walter J. Hickel put them all on the U. S. Endangered Species List in 1971.
Next, the U. S. Commissioner to the IWC devised a "New Management
Procedure" which he persuaded the whaling nations to accept, but though
it was said that for the first time in history, whalers refrained from killing
every single ﬁn whale they sighted, the great whales continued their slide
towards extinction. Finally, the moratorium on commercial whaling was
adopted in 1985 by a vote of 25 to 7, but the whaling nations kept issuing
themselves "scientific permits" to kill whales, and this year the IW C
slipped back into its bad old habits by adopting a "Revised Management
Procedure."

 

 

Canned dolphin meat at Hokkaido, January 1991, being sold
for the first time in this and other areas of Japan.

Environmtal Investigation Agency




The Commissioner from New Zealand was one of the few who declined
to vote for it, saying: "This is a subject of particular concern to my
delegation, not only because some of those whales spend part of their lives
within New Zealand waters but also because it represents the last great
whale stock on earth, in a region where more and more nations are coming
around to the view that the resources of the Antarctic should be preserved
for all time.

"No matter how scientifically sensible such a management procedure may
seem , it will appear to the people of New Zealand that we are repeating past
mistakes all over again —- playing God, and reshaping the environment. It
will also seem that northern hemisphere whaling countries, having ruined
the stocks in their own hemisphere by overfishing, are now planning to
make massive inroads into the southern hemisphere. "

The battle to save the whales must continue, and their small relatives, the
dolphins, must gain international protection. The 1992 meeting of the
IW C is scheduled to take place in Glasgow, Scotland. AWI representa-
tives will fight to stop the killing.

Wild Birds

The decimation of wild-caught birds by the pet trade has, at last, gained
international attention from the airlines that have ﬂown them from Africa,
Asia and Latin America to the United S tates. Lufthansa, the biggest canier
of birds, went out of the bird shipping business November 1990, setting
an example for over 40 other airlines to follow.

 

NBC showed footage obtained by the Environmental Investigation Agency
of the systematic robbing of nests of the beautiful Blue-fronted Amazon

  
   

A vzctzm of Guyana s bird trade.

Enivironmcntnl Investigation Agency

 

 




 

parrots in Argentina. The rough treatment of the helpless nestlings, too
young to feed themselves, was depicted with awful accuracy, and their
shocking extent of mortality documented for television viewers across the
United States. EIA's Peter Knights was interviewed by NBC's Bob Hager.

In New Jersey, a bill banning importation and sale of wild-caught birds for
the commercial pet industry passed by huge majorities at every stage of its
progress through the legislature, despite intense opposition by the Pet
Industry Joint Advisory Council and its allies. The bill was signed into law
by Governor Florio, August 12, 1991 . Assemblyman Bennett Mazur and
Senate President John Lynch led their respective legislative bodies in the
successful action.

In the U. S. Congress, two sets of bills were introduced: the Wild Bird
Protection Act, endorsed by AWI and some 200 organizations across the
country, HR. 2540, sponsored by Congressmen Gerry Studds and An-
thony Beilenson; and S. 1219, sponsored by Senators Max Baucus and
John Chafee. These legislators introduced, at the same time, a bill sup-
ported by the pet trade. Hearings on these proposals have not yet been held.

 

Elephants

AWI and other organizations petitioned theU. S . Fish and Wildlife Service
to list the African elephant in the “Endangered” category under the U. S.
Endangered Species Act. The government generally follows the lead of
the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora (CITES): when a species is listed on CITES Appendix I,
the "Endangered" classification, U. S. classiﬁcation as "Endangered"
usually results. However, after months of delay, the Service issued a
proposed ruling for a "split listing."

Zimbabwe, South Africa, and some other southern African countries want
to cull their elephants and sell the ivory in international commerce. They
are clamoring for Appendix 11 listing of elephants within their boundaries
at the next CITES meeting. Appendix II is the equivalent of the U. S.
Endangered Species Act's "Threatened" category.

The Fish and Wildlife Service proposed ruling was so controversial that
the deadline for submission of public comments was moved from July 15
to December 16, 1991.

Zimbabwe claims it "manages" elephants so well that it has to cull them
to keep their numbers down. At the same time, it begs for money to control
the poaching that is increasing in response to the very commerce Zimba-
bwe is seeking to revive. Zimbabwe has dug water holes which attract
elephants from other countries. Then it claims that too many elephants are
trampling the ground near the water holes, and they mustbe shot. It refuses
to release the data it has collected so that scientists in other countries could
examine it. Alleged increases in elephant numbers strain credibility.




sags?

AWl strongly opposes the "split
listing" because it would inevitably
lead to a revival of the disastrous
poaching and smuggling which was
driving the elephants to extinction
until the ban on international trade
in ivory was voted by the 100-p1us
CITES nations at the 1989 meeting.

The international trade ban has
been an enormous boon to
elephants. The price of ivory has
dropped from $300 per kilo down to
$50, but there are signs of increasing
poaching and rising ivory prices in
Zimbabwe because dealers are bet-
ting on " split listings" being adopted
in the United States and at the next
meeting of the nations whobelongto

 

An elephant rests her trunk on her tusk.
CITES: SChedUIed for March 1992 Ivory dealers want to reopen the trade,

in Kyoto, Japan. killing elephants for their tusks.

AWI continues to work closely with the Environmental Investigation
Agency, whose unparalleled fact-finding about the disastrous ivory trade
made the CITES Appendix I listing a reality and, with it, the enormous
drop in the price of ivory. The international ban on trade in all elephant
parts and products, hides, meat and ivory must be maintained.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal

 

Allan Thornton and Dave Currey, of the Environmental Investigation
Agency (EIA), received the Albert Schweitzer Medal from Senator John
Heinz September 24, 1990.

Senator Heinz' tragic death in a plane crash makes his stirring words of
encouragement especially poignant. He described the heroic undercover
work of the two medalists, calling it "already legendary in the environ-
mental movement." He cited their published documentation that has
proven over half a million dolphins are killed annually. His cautionary
words about dolphin protection were prophetic. He spoke as "somebody
who is proud of what the H. J. Heinz Company, with which I have had a
long association prior to this life, has done with their StarKist subsidiary,
but also would say that we should not rest on our past successes. The past
must be, and always will be, only a prologue. "

Speaking of "Dolphin Safe" tuna, he warned, " . . . there are those who
would undo the apparent gains . . . there are buyers on the docks of Bangkok
who are delighted when someone comes in with drifmets full of ﬁsh." The

 




 

10

 

continuing battles to protect dolphins from purse seines and driftnets show
how right he was.

In accepting the medal from Senator Heinz, Allan Thornton reviewed
EIA's efforts to protect dolphins. They began in Turkey in 1983 , where the
Black Sea dolphins were being killed for chicken food. Turkey was a
police state at the time, and the secret police took EIA's passports, saying,
"We’re coming back for your film." But in the end, the film wasn't seized,
the passports were returned, and 35 U. S. Senators successfully urged
Turkey to ban the hunting of dolphins in the Black Sea.

The medalists described some of their adventures in seeking the true facts
about the ivory criminals who are killing elephants to extinction. Thornton
told of the international ban on the ivory trade, noting that many hundreds
of thousands of people contributed to the ban and that it resulted in an
estimated decline in poaching of 80%.

Dave Currey told about the terrible sufferings of millions of wild birds
whose sale makes big profits for just ten dealers in Senegal. As the EIA
investigators played the role of a camera crew, the honorary French
Consul, who was deeply involved in the wildlife trade, told them about one
of his sources: "This guy’s coming because he’s got baboons. He wants
to sell them to me... I sell them to laboratories in Europe and the United
States. I think they cut them up into little pieces or something." This
callous commentary was actually made on camera! He has been removed
from his ofﬁcial position, but the same philosophy continues to inspire
massive trade.

"We are often told that wildlife has to pay," Dave Currey said. "If wildlife
is going to be saved, it has to be used sustainably. We got involved in the
elephant issue, and that was the dominant thought at that time, that
somehow the ivory trade was necessary; it was a necessary way to keep
elephants alive in Africa. But I can tell you, having been to Africa, having
been to the Middle East, having been to the Far East, it's not a very healthy
way of keeping elephants alive by shooting them for their ivory. These
traders want to make money. The less ivory around, the more valuable it
becomes. The less parrots around, the more valuable they are. The reality
of wildlife trade is far from the theoretical ideas of sustainable use of
wildlife."

Concluding the ceremony, Teresa Heinz, wife of the Senator and a true
friend of animals, told of the encouragement she gave to the idea of
"Dolphin Safe" tuna, which has been so splendidly carried out by StarKist.

Public Education

 

The major projects described in this Annual Report are supplemented by
the ongoing distribution of The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly, books,
films, articles and other educational materials and the active participation




of AWI representatives at the meetings listed in the report. Major
publications include Animals and Their Legal Rights, The Endangered
Species Handbook ,Beyond the Laboratory Door, Comfortable Quarters
for Laboratory Animals and Factory Farming: The Experiment That
Failed , single copies of which are distributed free of charge to libraries,
and sold at cost to the public.

The Animal Welfare Institute is an educational, charitable organization
devoted to reducing the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by
human beings.

 

Speeches Made and Meetings Attended
by AWI Representatives

Intemational Whaling Commission meeting, July 1-6, 1990, Noordwijk, The
Netherlands.

American Veterinary Medical Association, annual meeting, July 22-25, 1990, S an
Antonio, TX, AWI booth exhibit.

American Institute of Biological Sciences, annual meeting, August 6-8, 1990,
Richmond, VA, AWI booth exhibit.

International Whaling Commission Interagency meetings, September 14, 1990;
January 24, March 12, and April 25, 1991, Washington, DC.

Meetings with Ray Bolze, Esq., on the African elephant, September 17, 1990;
February 8, March 20, and April 8, 1991, Washington, DC.

World Wildlife Fund, Cooperative Working Group on the Wild Bird Trade
meetings, September 20 and November 6, 1990; January 29, February 21, and
March 15, 1991, Washington, DC.

Presentation of the Schweitzer Medal to Allan Thornton and Dave Currey,
September 24, 1990, Washington, DC.

United States Animal Health Association, annual meeting, October 8-10, 1990,
Denver, CO, presentation by Cathy Liss on animal welfare issues of the 1990s.

Global Cetacean Coalition, November 9, 1990, Monterey, CA.

Biannual meeting of the American Cetacean Society, November 10, 1990,
Monterey, CA.

Dolphin Coalition meetings, December 5 and December 12-13, 1990; January 25
and February 11, 1991, Washington, DC.

Rachel Carson Trust, December 8, 1990, Chevy Chase, MD, Christine Stevens
received the Rachel Carson Legacy Award for Notable Achievement in Sustaining
the Vision of Rachel Carson.

National Association of Biology Teachers, annual meeting, December 13-15,
1990, Washington, DC, AWI exhibit and showing of ABC News broadcast on
Carolina Biological Supply Company.

11

 




 

12

Monitor International Board Meeting, December 14, 1990, at National Airport,
Arlington, VA.

Convention on Intemational Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) preparatory
meetings, U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, December 18, 1990; March 11, 1991,
Arlington, VA.

Senator John Chafee’s Environmental Round Table, January 31, 1991,
Washington, DC.

African Wildlife Foundation elephant meeting, February 7, 1991, Washington,
DC.

Interagency meetings on driftnets, February 13 and April 19, 1991, Washington,
DC.

Meeting on Wild Bird Trade, February 21, 1991, Washington, DC, with Jim
Leape, Ginette Hemley.

South Florida Pet Show, February 22-24, 1991 , Coconut Grove, FL, AWI exhibit
received trophy for outstanding exhibit.

Meeting with Georgia Farm Bureau, February 25, 1991, Washington, DC,
Christine Stevens vs. Steve Kopperud of the Animal Industry Foundation.

Interagency meeting on UNCED (United Nations Conference on Enviromnent and
Development), March 4, 1991, Washington, DC.

Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research conference, March 21-23, 1991,
Boston, MA, Cathy Liss gave speech entitled "Response to the USDA Regula-
tions."

U. S . Trade Representative’s Office, meeting on the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade, March 27, 1991, Washington, DC.

America’s Family Pet Show, April 19-21, 1991, Pomona, CA, AWI booth exhibit.

American Committee for International Conservation meeting, May 1, 1991,
Washington, DC.

U. S. Department of Agriculture Training Course for Public Veterinary Practice
Careers, May 6, 1991, Baltimore, MD, presentation by Cathy Liss, "The Animal
Welfare Act from AWI’s Viewpoint."

Marine Mammal Protection Act meeting, Arnold & Porter, May 17, 1991,
Washington, DC.

United States Department of Agriculture/National Institutes of Health, forum on
the new ISLA regulations, June 6, 1991, Washington, DC.

Meeting of Coalition on Wild Birds, June 13, 199 1, Humane Society of the United
States, Washington, DC.

Meeting with Dr. and Mrs. Alexey Yablokov on animals in the Soviet Union, June
19, 1991, Washington, DC.

Weekly meetings of The Monitor Consortium, Washington, DC.
Quarterly meetings of the Endangered Species Act Coalition, Washington, DC.
Quarterly meetings of the Entanglement Network, Washington, DC.




THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 23,000
individuals and organizations including public libraries, Deans of medi-
cal and veterinary schools, animal protective organizations, teachers,
scientists and AW] members. Following are summaries of some of the
articles not mentioned in the main body of this Annual Report.

FALL 1990, Vol.39, No. 3

 

Oil Spill Legislation. The United S tates Congress unanimously approved
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, aimed at oil. spill prevention and shipper
liability sixteen months after the Exxon Valdez buried the shores of Prince
William Sound with crude oil.

Antarctica. Australia and France advocate “nature reserve status” and a
ban on mining.

New York. The State University of New York no longer compels students
to dissect animals in its basic biology course. The decision followed a
student's lawsuit against the university brought by the ASPCA and
Rutgers Urban Legal Clinic.

California. The California Wilderness Protection Act, which bans trophy
hunting of mountain lions in the state and allocates $30 million for the next
30 years for wildlife habitat was adopted by referendum.

WINTER 1990/91, Vol.39, No. 4

 

Carolina Biological Supply Company. The largest supplier of animals
for dissection in the US with annual sales between $25 and $30 million
was the subject of an ABC expose’. Film footage reveals cats still moving
when they are taken to the embalming table after being gassed and shows
them clenching their jaws as embalming ﬂuid is injected.

Beluga Whales. A group of Vancouver Aquarium employees face charges
of causing suffering to a beluga whale and dangerous operation of a marine
vessel in Canada.

Population. Phenomenal growth in human population is taking its toll as
natural habitats are paved over, built on, polluted, lumbered and mined,
driving many other species toward extinction.

13

 




 

SPRING 1991, Vol.40, No. 1

Respirators for Hog Confinement Buildings. The air is so foul and corrosive in factory
farms, the farmers need respirators for a two-hour stint in the atmosphere hogs are condemned
"to breathe day and night till they are sent to the slaughterhouse.

Great Britain to Ban Sow Stalls and Tethers. Parliament votes 118 to 0.

Diamonds are for Death. Dredging the Boro River in the great unspoiled wilderness area
of the Okavan go Delta in Botswana, has been put on hold, after intense local and international
pressure. The dredging was planned to increase the water supply for De Beers' Orapa
diamond mine.

Abusive Treatment. Blatant animal cruelty at the S outh St. Paul Stockde in Minnesota was
documented on film, showing sick and injured, down and disabled farm animals dragged

 

 

with a chain or left to die slowly and painfully.

 

Animal Welfare Institute
Statement Of Support, Revenue, Expenses And Changes In Fund Balances

Year Ended June 30, 1991 With Comparative Totals for the Year Ended June 30, 1990

Totals
Unrestricted Restricted 1_9__9_1 $0
Support and revenue:
Contributions:
Elephant campaign 3 65,824
Save The Whales campaign $115,947 $115,947 117,199
Pastureland farms 50,618
Other contributions $116,948 1 16,948 76,335
Foundations and trusts 67,500 67,500 146,500
Legacies and bequests 395,285 395,285 346,642
Memberships 26,227 26,227 25,656
Sale of publications
and reprints 5,802 5 ,802 8,059
Dividend income 18,61 1 18,611 15,844
Gain (loss) on sale of securities 2,379 2,379 (3,963)
Other income 1,875 1,875 1,3 83
Total support and revenue 634,627 115,947 750,574 850,097
Expenses:
Program services 416,633 108,065 524,698 550,100
Management and general 85,995 4,538 90,533 97,511
Fund-raising 35,539 1,568 37,107 29,523
Total expenses 53 8,167 114,171 652,338 677,134
Excess of support and
revenue over expenses 96,460 1,776 98,236 172,963
Fund balances at beginning of year 165,661 62,539 228,200 55,237
Fund balances at end of year $262,121 $326,436 $228,200

14

 

 

$ 64,315

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Statement of Functional Expenses

Year Ended June 30, 1991

With Comparative Totals for the Year Ended June 30, 1990

Salaries
Payroll taxes and employment insurance
Medical insurance
Advertising
Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies
Printing (except for Quarterlies)
Animals and Their Legal Rights - Fourth Edition
Research, writing and editing
Grants for whales, dolphins, elephants and wild birds
Conferences, meetings and travel
Postage, mailing and addressing costs

(except for Quarterlies)
Telephone, duplicating and office supplies
Professional services
Membership and subscriptions
Acquisition of books and other educational material
Schweitzer Medal
Consultants - Domestic Animals
Consultants - Wildlife Protection
Elephant beneﬁt
Miscellaneous

Total expenses before depreciation

Depreciation of fixtures and equipment

Total expenses

Program Services

 

Public

Education Save The P aStureland Total

and Projects

Whales

Farms

 

$ 93,817
11,099
9,339

37,164
26,867
33,587
830
109,000
14,719

19,392
1 1,059
2,3 88
8,565
2,739
12,397

29,165

1 ,274
423,401
3,803

$427,204

$12,576
1,087

10,000

5,798
17,394

5,500
712

7,231
317

1 ,043

300

$31,000

276

743

144
380
231
93
74

300

2,290

$137,393
12,186
9,339
10,000
42,962
44,537
33,587
830

1 14,500
16,174

26,767
1 1,756
2,619
9,706
2, 813
12,397
300
29,465

3,564

 

61,958

35,536

520,895
3,803

 

$61,958

$35,536

$524,698

 

Management

Fund-

and General raising

 

$47,261
4,9 17
4,043

1,536
3,738

748

2,388
9,717
10,500
172
2,817

1 ,428
89,265

1,268
$90,533

A copy of the entire f'macial statement is available upon request to the Animal Welfare Institute
a the New York State Board of Social Welfare, Albany, NY 12223

Certiﬁed Public Accountants Ernst and Young

$ 8,587
762
584

5,940

13,065
609

6,287

3375333
1,268
$37,107

 

1991

$ 193,241
17,865
13,966
10,000
44,498
54,215
33,5 87

830
1 14,500
29,987

29,764
21 ,478
19,406
9,878
5,630
12,3 97
300
29,465

4,992
645,999
6,339
$652,338

1990

$152,050
15,579
11,342
49,154
45,099
71,647
4,626
12,884
118,912
25,981

40,769
21,181
29,555
1 1,287

7,984

9,210
35,950
2,804
4,763
670,777

6,357
$677,134

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650 Washington, D. C. 20007

Directors

Madeleine Bemelmans -
Jean Wallace Douglas
David 0. Hill

Sue Hollingsworth
Freebom G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Roger L. Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freebom G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

International Committee

Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico

T. G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain - Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru - Kenya

David Ricardo - Canada

Godofredo Stutzin — Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan

Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. - Denmark
Alexey Yablokov - U.S.S.R.

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Bennet Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

William J. Cotreau, Research Associate
Rosita Eck, Administrative Assistant
for Connnunications

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for Livestock and Poultry

Henry Herbermann, Publications
Coordinator

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Jeffrey F. Myatt, Administrative Assistant
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully
accepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the
Institute’s much-needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the
Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals.
Please remember the Institute in your will.

S uggested form of bequest:
I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of
(or if other property, describe the property).

dollars

 

 

 




July
THE WHALE

I
0

9

Animal Welfare Institute
Forty-Fi
1

1991 to June 30

9

o
H
:-
a:
"l
93
:5
o.
5+;
SD
3
H
:-
s:
B
”U
o‘
m
o
W
E
:r
Ed
(n
“c:
:r
o
H
o
(to
"t
$33
"c3
:-
(D
o.
:3”
O
B
C‘
co
#
o
.3
’11
’1
o
B

rst Annual Report

0‘3.
3
K2“
§
3
Q
x
Q
:-
Q
‘0»
N
w
m
(4
m
Q
U‘
k<
H
m
o
.9
c
CD
CD
>-<
<
(D
U)
0
O
s:
U)
H
o
m
g:

1992

 




 

 

WHALES

AWI’ s ﬁscal year, covered in this Annual
Report, includes both the 1991 Intema—
tional Whaling Commission (IWC) meet—
ing in Reykjavik, Iceland, and the beginning
of the 1992 meeting in Glasgow, Scotland,
June 29 — July 3.

The United States' disastrous leadership
crisis began at the 1991 meeting, when .
US Commissioner, Dr. John Knauss, 9.
tentatively approved a "Revised Man- " _
agement Procedure" (RMP) proposed :
by the Scientific Committee, a body
increasingly biased towards commer-
cial whaling. This RMP would allow
46% of the original populations of whales f p
to be exterminated before intervention . ,5) , g . ®

 

I

is required.Then whaling operations are Norwegian Whaler defying IWC
supposed to be ,"sustainable," i.e. the ’

population should be kept the same with
no more kills than births.

decisions, kills minke whale with
explosive harpoon.

To countenance continued massive harpooning of whales for commercial sale to a
small, luxury market is completely contrary to well—established US policy, which
has been repeatedly expressed in Congressional resolutions and statements by the
Executive Branch. Nevertheless, at this 1991 IWC meeting, the US Commissioner
would not oppose it. He then proceeded to withdraw two urgently needed US
resolutions. The first was an endorsement of the United Nations resolution to ban
high seas driftnets by 1992, a policy to which our country is strongly committed.*
Next, he withdrew the resolution to protect five endangered dolphin species,
including the Mexican vaquita, the Indus river dolphin and the Yangtze dolphin. It
is estimated that less than 400 dolphins of each of these species still survive. Twelve
countries were sponsoring this resolution, but they never got a chance to vote for it
because the US, the lead country, withdrew it. The excuse proffered - that it could
be passed at the 1992 meeting - proved an empty promise.

Senator Bob Packwood (R, OR), a long—time friend and protector of whales,together
with eight other Senators called upon the Secretary of Commerce to instruct the US
Commissioner at the 1992 Glasgow meeting to uphold the long—established policy
of the US against commercial exploitation of whales and to vote against the RMP.
"Our country’s leadership position must not be sacrificed to an untested theory," he
wrote. "Moreover, the RMP is in conﬂict with the US Marine Mammal Protection
Act in several important respects. We urge the Administration not to reverse US
policy for protection of the great whales." Unfortunately this formal request from

 

* October 4, 1992, Congress passed the bill to enhance effectiveness of the UN resolution.

2

 

 




 

 

a bi-partisan group of Senators was ignored by the Administration and in 1992, IWC
Commissioner Knauss voted to adopt the RMP and explore ways of implementing
it. Although the United Kingdom, New Zealand and France abstained on the vote,
the measure passed. While Japan clamored for speedy final action and the setting
of quotas under the RMP, Norway simply announced that their whalers would begin
killing whales at once without even waiting for IWC decisions.1 Iceland dropped its
IWC membership and assumed observer status, apparently weighing the advan-
tages and disadvantages of killing whales for the Japanese market. The European
Community (EC) has a policy against killing whales for export and chances of
obtaining membership in the EC are dim if Icelanders kill whales for the Tokyo and
Osaka restaurants.

Only Japan offers a financial return for whale meat, and the market is being actively
promoted, according to Terry McCarthy writing in The Independent on Sunday,
May 3, 1992. A whale meat festival for 1200 paying guests was staged by the owner
of two whale meat restaurants. "The centerpiece of the display was a plate with large
chunks of raw tail meat glistening red in a pool of blood. This was minke whale
shipped up from Antarctica, along with other bloody parts, by Japanese fishermen
allegedly conducting scientific research into the whale population."

Every friend of whales and dolphins needs to register strong opposition to the
resumption of commercial whaling by Japan, Iceland and Norway. Unless the
United States firmly rejects the RMP, the whaling nations will begin the uncontrol—
lable harpooning of these magnificent creatures, and the 20-year-long fight to save
the whales will be only a brief interlude of respite.

Britain’s Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries opened the 1992 meeting of the IWC
with an eloquent condemnation of the sordid history of whaling. "The world will not
allow us to risk a return to the barbarity of the past," he said.

CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS ON WILD—CAUGHT BIRDS

Dr. Gerard Bertrand, President of the Massachusetts Audubon Society, presented
excellent testimony on behalf of all the animal protective organizations at the hearings
chaired by Congressman Gerry Studds (D, MA) June 26, 1992. Dr. Bertrand, a valued
member of the Animal Welfare Institute’ s Scientific Committee, holds degrees in both
biological sciences and law. He eloquently urged favorable action in this session of
Congress to ban importation of wild-caught birds for the commercial pet trade.2

A videotape of the hearings was made for AWI pro bono. It records his masterful
grasp and presentation of the issue. AWI members are invited to borrow the video.

AIRLINES REFUSE TO CARRY WILD BIRDS

 

Airlines throughout the world continue to announce their bans on transportation of
wild-caught birds for the pet trade. At the end of the period covered in this annual
report, 83 airlines had made this humane decision.

 

1 Norway was officially certified by the US, October 28, 1992, for diminishing the effectiveness of an
international agreement. A US embargo of its fish products may be triggered.

2 The Wild Bird Conservation Act was signed into law on October 23, 1992.

 




 

 

CITES MEETING

AWI has been actively represented at every one of the biennial meetings of the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) since its inception in 1971 because we recognize it as the most important
treaty in the world for protection of wild creatures. Maj or battles at the 1992 meeting
focused on elephants, bears and birds.

Wild Birds

Though the United States and other countries proposed important resolutions for
protection of wild birds, the commercial pet trade lobby's active opposition
prevented passage of every attempt to curb its predation. The only progress for birds
was placement of several species on Appendix I, prohibiting international trade.
Greta Nilsson, AWI's Wildlife Consultant, prepared two of the successful propos-
als: the Goffin’s cockatoo and the red-vented cockatoo were moved from Appendix
II, where they were subject to commercial trading, to Appendix I, which bans it. The
Fish and Wildlife Service accepted her proposal to list the Blue-streaked Lory on
Appendix I, but withdrew the proposal at the CITES conference when Indonesia
capitulated by announcing an export ban.

Each of these species is at risk of extinction because of the international cage bird
trade. Greta Nilsson’ s outstanding scholarship has earned her a place at the forefront
of the long battle to protect wild birds from ruthless international commerce.

AWI is proud to be the publisher of many of her books: The Bird Business (1977;
1981); The Endangered Species Handbook (1983; 1986); Facts About Furs (1973;
1980); and the series of reports she undertook from 1980 to 1988 on statistics
generated by both the US Department of Agriculture and the US Fish and Wildlife
Service on importation of birds.

A new report, Flight to Extinction, A Report on the Wild- Caught Bird Trade, based
on six years of intensive research, was published by the Animal Welfare Institute
and Environmental Investigation Agency this year. Investigators traveled to
Senegal, Tanzania, Argentina, Guyana and Indonesia to detail the routine smug—
gling and widespread cruelty which is devastating many species in these countries.
The color photographs document this tragic loss of birds to a disreputable and
wholly unjustifiable trade. This report, together with previous AWI and EIA
reports, has been a major inﬂuence in efforts to prohibit the trade.

African Elephants

Protectors of the elephant succeeded in maintaining Appendix I status for the
African elephant despite an intense challenge by Zimbabwe, South Africa and
Botswana. The 115 nations that have ratified CITES were not convinced by the
southern African attempt to downlist the elephant to Appendix II, which would
have permitted international trade in its parts and products.

Unlike the strong support given by the US to the Appendix I listing at the 1989
CITES meeting, in 1992 the US position was weak and indecisive. It was the
African countries themselves who led the fight against downlisting. As country




after country signalled their desire to address the convention, the pro—trade countries
saw that their initiative could not win. Zambia had already left the southern African
coalition and publicly burned its stockpiled ivory. The eastern African countries,
who had suffered terrible decimation of
their elephant herds by poachers, spoke
movingly for the elephants.

The Animal Welfare Institute featured the
African elephant at its CITES booth (see
photo). AWI Executive Director Cathy Liss
gave AWI elephant T—shirts to 500 of the
assembled delegates, many of whom
donned them and displayed their message
in all three official CITES languages. A
huge oil painting of endangered elephants
and birds by AWI President Christine
Stevens covered the back of the booth.
Working with the Environmental Investi—
gation Agency, AWI repeated the 1989
success in banning international trade, but
the pro—trade southern African nations will
continue their clamor. The fight to protect
elephants must continue.

Rhinos

While there is strong agreement about the disastrously low number of rhinos, there
were still efforts at CITES by South Africa and Zimbabwe to reopen trade in rhino
horn so that the rhinos could "pay their way". That is, they wanted sale of "legally"
acquired rhino horn to finance rhino protection. Common sense prevailed and each
proposal to reopen trade was soundly defeated, despite the US vote in favor of
reopening trade in rhino horn. Saving the rhino can only be achieved by halting any
sale of rhino horn products, not by easing trade restrictions.

Black Bears

Denmark proposed the American black bear for listing on Appendix II so that
exports of its parts and products could be monitored. Asian bear species have been
exploited to near extinction by the trade in bear paws and gall bladders, sold at
staggering prices for their supposed medicinal values in the Far East. Opposition by
the US and Canada led to an initial defeat. Then an intensive information campaign
by friends of bears (including a powerful documentary film shown at the AWI
booth) turned the voting around and when Denmark brought it directly to the floor,
it passed by a wide majority.

 

Blueﬁn Tuna

A group of Japanese men immaculately dressed in black suits, armed with a van
containing a loudspeaker and a large banner, demonstrated in front of the CITES
convention center against any listing of bluefin tuna by CITES. This was the first

 




 

attempt to list a commercially valuable fish, but Sweden was pushed to withdraw
its proposal to list the bluefin tuna population of the Northwest Atlantic on
Appendix I and the population of the Northeast Atlantic to be listed on Appendix
II. The intense lobbying by the Japanese, with help from the US and Canadian
delegates, thwarted efforts to get needed protection for this rapidly diminishing
species.

Good CITES decisions to protect animals are still possible, but there is a hard fight
ahead against exploiters’ lobbyists. The next meeting of the Parties to CITES is
scheduled for 1994 in the United States.

 

TRAPPING

On November 4, 1991, the European Council approved a Regulation to ban the use
of steel jaw leghold traps throughout the European Community (EC) and to ban
importation of furs of beaver, otter, coyote, wolf, lynx, bobcat, sable, raccoon,
muskrat, fisher badger, marten or ermine from countries' w'here the leghold trap is
still used or where trapping methods do not meet internationally agreed humane
trapping standards." The Regulation goes into effect January 1, 1995. It has the force
of law in all 12 EC member countries.

The fur industry put up obstacles every step of the way, and trapping interests are
actively seeking to make the standards referred to in the Regulation so weak as to
be meaningless. Nevertheless, the Regulation 1s a major achievement, and AWI will
pursue the standards devel-
opment process taking place
under the auspices of the In—
ternational Standards Orga-
nization to make sure it pro-
hibits the barbaric steel jaw
leghold trap and other cruel
traps.

Bills pending in the US Sen—
ate and House of Representa-
tives to end the use of this trap
have wide support. In the Sen-
ate, the chief sponsor, Sena-
tor Daniel Akaka (D, HI), has
been joined by Senators Alan
Cranston (D, CA), Albert
Gore (D, TN), Daniel Inouye
(D, HI), Edward Kennedy (D,
MA), Claiborne Pell (D, RI),
and Paul Simon (D, IL) as co—

 

A beautiful lynx in a brutal steel jaw trap in sponsors. In the House, Con-
Alaska, a state that sets no limit on the time gressman James Scheuer's (D,
animals can be left to suﬁ‘er in traps. NY) bill has 115 co—sponsors.

6




GATT - GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

The Marine Mammal Protection Act, passed in 1972, is a major weapon to protect
dolphins, whales, seals, sea lions, polar bears and sea otters from cruelty and
destruction. It is the
best law in the world
for this purpose and has
the strong support of
AWI and its compan-
ion organization, the
Society for Animal
Protective Legislation,
which did so much to
obtain its enactment.

 

Under the General
Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade a panel of
three unnamed foreign
bureaucrats decided that the US Congress should repeal a substantial portion of this
essential law. They said it interfered with free trade! They want to force citizens of
the United States to buy canned tuna fish, no matter how many dolphins are killed
in tuna nets in the process.

GIVE ME 9003 TIRED ”or-us REGULATIONS
Youu wrrou- LINERS

Your: mom: mses 95mm 170
PROFIT mam.

Public Citizen has been a leader in the fight against the GATT "Uruguay Round."
Many other environmental and animal protective laws could be Wrecked by the
pending free trade agreements, GATT and NAFTA (North American Free Trade
Agreement). Fortunately, this fight does not depend only on opposition by animal
protective organizations. Consumers, workers, farmers, environmentalists and
their organizations and unions have all joined to protect American legislation
against this dangerous challenge.

In a full page ad which The AWI Quarterly reproduced, Public Citizen wrote, "We
all become subject to the veto of an international body that nobody elected, that nobody
knows, and that operates in secret beyond national laws or the democratic process."

ANIMAL POPULATION CONTROL

 

AWI has supported the work of Dr. Jay Kirkpatrick to substitute contraception for
killing in cases where a species of wildlife has become overpopulated. His three—
year study of skunk birth control has proved a resounding success, as has his work
in controlling the numbers of the Assateague ponies under the jurisdiction of the US
Park Service.

Dr. Kirkpatrick took part in the Second International Conference on Wildlife
Fertility Control in Melbourne, Australia. As he wrote in The AWI Quarterly, "All
that is required is the desire, on the part of US and Australian officials, to take this
bold and new step forward and provide a humane solution to the control of feral
equids." Dr. Kirkpatrick is working on fertility control for deer and seeking funds

 




 

for contraception in raccoons. AWI will continue its support.

Fertility control in domestic animals was given a strong boost when a spay/neuter
ordinance was passed in Seattle, Washington. Similar ordinances are being pro-
posed in many cities to discourage backyard breeders and irresponsible owners
from creating the overpopulation which necessitates euthanasia of healthy dogs and
cats for lack of homes.

FARM ANIMALS IN CONGRESS AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

Important legislation to protect farm .
animals has been introduced in Con '
gress following exposes on television
and in Congressional hearings. Senator
Daniel Akaka (D, HI) introduced the 7
Downed Animal Protection Act after
gruesome documentation of cruelty to
animals too weak to stand was shown
repeatedly on national television.

 

Representative Andrew Jacobs, Jr. (D,
IN) introduced the Humane Methods 0
Poultry Slaughter Act following the ex- . ’_ ,
ample of the California Legislature which 4 :
passed a law requiring chickens, turkeys

and other fowl to be rendered uncon- Downed sheep, dying slowly, at‘Texas I
scious before their throats are cut. stockya rd.

Senator Howard Metzenbaum (D, OH) held hearings which focused on the spread
of disease to consumers of chicken owing to the cruel and unsanitary methods of
rearing and slaughtering them. AWI has featured articles in the Quarterly on the
methods used, including throwing handfuls of chicks on to conveyor belts and
debeaking them with hot plates. Ruth Harrison, world-renowned authority on factory
farming, wrote an article for the Quarterly on alternative systems for laying hens.

The European Community appears to be headed towards banning the battery cage.
AWI has long advocated a ban on battery cages because of the cruel restriction of
movement. Hens’ feet become deformed because they are denied natural roosts.
Instead, they are obliged to stand permanently on the wire cage ﬂoor, and they must
share a space with four other hens that is too small for even one hen to spread her wings.

 

CURBING WILDLIFE CRIME AND CRUELTY

On June 17, 1992, final regulations on the "Humane and Healthful Transport of
Wild Mammals and Birds" were published in The Federal Register bringing an end
to no less than eleven years of delay since Congress amended the Lacey Act to give
authority to the US Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) for humane treatment of
wildlife in transit to the United States. AWI will be watching to see whether the
regulations are properly enforced.

Ammoueg [11.12:]

  

x'M




3%”?

Congressman Richard Lehman (D,CA) held oversight hearings on law enforcement
by the FWS on February 3, 1992. AWI's President, Christine Stevens, testified on
behalf of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation strongly urging direct-line
authority and adequate funding for the Division of Law Enforcement. The Division
has been so severely starved that its Special Agents can't get out to investigate
wildlife crimes. They are forced to adopt such economies as sleeping in their cars.

The Law Enforcement staff has decreased by 9% over a period in which the FWS
has increased the rest of its staff by 78%. It is clear that lobbyists have had undue
inﬂuence in bringing about this sorry state of affairs.

Senator Tim Wirth (D,CO) convened a large meeting at which Special Agent Terry
Grosz showed film documenting the shocking extent and variety of wildlife crime
which the FWS is attempting to curb. Both Senator Wirth and Congressman
Lehman plan to introduce legislation to curb poaching and illegal importation of
wildlife and to elevate the Law Enforcement Division to a directorate level.l

AWI together with other humane and conservation groups petitioned the Depart-
ment of Interior to put the African elephant on the US Endangered Species List, but
the FWS proposed, in response, a "split listing" which would deprive the elephants
in southern Africa of the protection conferred by endangered status. The victory at
CITES gives elephants international endangered status. But the US has not followed
this good example.2

 

PUBLIC EDUCATION

The major projects described in this Annual Report are supplemented by the
ongoing distribution of The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly, books, videos,
articles and other educational materials and the active participation of AWI
representatives at the meetings listed in the report.

As noted earlier, Flight to Extinction, A Report on the Wild-CaughtBird Trade, was
published and a new supplement was added to Whales vs. Whalers which now
reports on the campaign to save the whales from 1971 to 1992. To meet the demand
from teachers and libraries 5,000 copies of The Endangered Species Handbook
were re-printed bringing the total to 25,000.

Other major publications include Animals and Their Legal Rights, The Endangered
Species Handbook, Beyond the Laboratory Door, Comfortable Quarters for Labo-
ratory Animals, and Factory Farming: The Experiment That Failed, single copies
of which are distributed free of charge to libraries and sold at c0st to the public.

The Animal Welfare Institute is an educational, charitable organization devoted to
reducing the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by human beings.

 

1) On September 10 and 28 respectively, Congressman Lehman and Senator Wirth intro-
duced bills for this purpose.

2) The FWS announced August 10, 1992 that the African elephant would not be listed as an
Endangered Species. It is merely being retained in the Threatened category which allows a
"regulated" international trade.

 




 

 

THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 23,000 individuals
and organizations, including public libraries, Deans of medical and veterinary
schools, animal protective organizations, teachers, scientists and AWI members.
Following are summaries of some of the articles not mentioned in the main body of
this Annual Report.

 

FALL 1991, Vol. 40, No. 3

Primates. After illegal export, wild—caught chimpanzees traveled through seven
countries till they were rescued by Dr. Katalin Rodics of the Hungarian CITES
Management Authority and returned to spacious new quarters at the Entebbe Zoo,
Uganda.

Animal Welfare Violations. Carolina Biological Supply Company was cited for not
complying with the Animal Welfare Act. The company, which supplies animals to
schools for dissection, failed to properly euthanize cats and began embalming them
while they were still alive and conscious.

Wildlife Crime. The General Accounting Office reported to Congress that the US
Fish and Wildlife Service Law Enforcement Agents were frequently "deskbound"
and could not do their inspections for lack of funds.

Dog Theft Legislation. Following a number of publicized instances of dogs being
acquired under false pretenses and then sold to research laboratories, a new law was
passed in Washington state. The law makes dog theft a felony and requires each
research facility to maintain a public file, including a photograph of each dog or cat
1t uses.

WINTER 1992, Vol. 41, No. 1

 

Tax Dollars Promote M isinformation. The US Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) has undertaken a campaign to mislead elementary school children
and their teachers about the treatment and housing of animals in laboratories. A
packet of glossy pamphlets and a poster entitled "Let's Visit a Research Laboratory"
portrays smiling monkeys swinging and playing together in spacious outdoor pens.
But in reality HHS has fought every legislative and regulatory effort to end the
solitary confinement in small cages that is the fate of most laboratory monkeys.

10




Judge Requires Humane Coverage of Mice, Rats and Birds. A federal judge ruled
that mice, rats and birds that make up 85% of animals used by experimental
laboratories must be protected under the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act.

Russia. Professor Alexey Yablokov, a respected member of AWI’s International
Committee, wrote a summary of the environmental crisis in the Russian Federation.
Professor Yablokov has been appointed State Counsellor of the Russian Federa—
tion for Ecology and Public Health. Thirty percent of the entire ground water of
the Commonwealth is. poisoned by pesticides, heavy metals and other pollutants.
Thirty percent of all food products are dangerously polluted by agricultural
chemicals.

Animals Rescued. An international wildlife smuggler, Jagdeshwar Lall Sadhu, was
forced to ﬂee his operation in Grenada. Thanks to the Grenada SPCA and other
concerned parties including British Airways, BWIA- and Federal Express, nearly
200 animals were saved from the deadly wildlife trade and ﬂown to sanctuary in the
United States.

 

SPRING 1992, Vol. 41, N0. 2

Orangutans. Maj or animal dealer Matthew Block was indicted by the US Attorney
for the Southern District of Florida. He is charged with violations of the Endan-
gered Species Act and the Lacey Act for knowingly and wilfully selling and
offering for sale in foreign commerce six orangutans. The smuggled infants were
discovered by Bangkok airport employees who heard what sounded like a human
baby in a crate labelled "birds. " The little orangs were desperately dehydrated and
stressed and despite heroic efforts by the International Primate Protection League
to nurse them back to health, four of them died.

Violence. Dr. Frederick Goodwin, leading proponent of unrestrained animal experi-
mentation, found himself in trouble with the Congressional Black Caucus and
chairmen of the Congressional authorizing Committees for his agency. They found
Goodwin’s remarks to the National Mental Health Advisory Council "grossly
offensive." With his customary reliance on animal experimentation, he adduced
violent and "hypersexual" behavior by male monkeys in support of his assertions.
"Maybe it isn’t just the careless use of the word," he said, "when people call certain
areas of certain cities jungles." Under pressure, Goodwin resigned as head of the
Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration but was moved immedi-
ately to the directorship of the National Institute of Mental Health and he is
prominently quoted in the packet for schoolteachers referred to in the previous issue
of The AWI Quarterly.

Whale Watching. Whale watching, as contrasted with whale killing, is becoming
popular in Japan where, according to The New York Times, whales have become a
"N umber 1 tourist draw." A 5 8-year—old fisherman, Tsuneka Matsuda, said: "I feel
it is an atrocious thing to kill whales. We Japanese do not have to eat whales any more. "

ll

 

 




 

SPEECHES MADE AND MEETINGS ATTENDED
BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

Christine Stevens interviewed on the trade in wild-caught birds for the pet industry,
CNN, July 5, 1991, Washington, DC.

Meeting with representatives of the General Accounting Office to provide docu-
mentation on lack of law enforcement and to discuss the effectiveness of the
Endangered Species Act, July 10, 1991, Washington, DC.

Meeting with Ray Bolze, Esq., on petition to Interior Department to place African
elephant on the Endangered Species List, July 17, 1991, Washington, DC.

American Veterinary ‘Medical Association Annual Meeting, AWI exhibit booth.
July 28-31, 1991, Seattle, WA.

Wild Bird Bill strategy meetings, July 29, October 23, December 16, 1991,
February 12, April 9, May 13, May 21, 1992, Washington, DC.

Signing of the New Jersey Wild Bird Protection Act by Governor Jim Florio, August
12, 1991, Paramus, NJ.

Speech by Christine Stevens to U. S. Department of Agriculture Inspectors on
enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act, September 11, 1991, Baltimore, MD.

Animal Legal Defense Fund conference, September 18, 1991, Alexandria, VA.
Christine Stevens spoke on the fight for humane regulations under the Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments to the Animal Welfare Act.

Meeting on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), September 19,
1991, Washington, DC.

Meeting on the wild bird trade, with video by the Environmental Investigation
Agency, Humane Society of the United States, October 10, 1991, Washington, DC.

AWI lunch to honor Izgrev Topkov, new Secretary General of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES),
October 17, 1991, Washington, DC.

Press conference on elephants, National Press Club, October 17, 1991, Washington,
DC, Christine Stevens introduced Senator Terry Sanford (D, NC), sponsor of the
Resolution to keep the African elephant on Appendix I of CITES.

Meeting with representatives of the National Cattlemen’ 3 Association, October 22,
1991, Washington, DC.

United States Animal Health Association Annual Meeting, October 29, 1991, San
Diego, CA. Cathy Liss speech to the Animal Welfare Committee.

CITES interagency meetings, US Department of the Interior, November 14, 1991;
January 8, April 7, May 26, 1992, Washington, DC.

12




Meeting with John Turner, Director of the US Fish and Wildlife Service, concern-
ing wildlife law enforcement, January 9, 1992, Washington, DC.

Organizational meeting on the African elephant, Humane Society of the United
States, January 17, 1992, Washington, DC.

International Whaling Commission (IWC) interagency meetings, National Marine
Fisheries Service, October 11, 1991; January 21, March 30, May 13, 1992, Silver
Spring, MD and Washington, DC.

CITES strategy meetings, December 18, 1991; January 22; February 5; February
21, 1992, Washington, DC.

Subcommittee on Oversight and Desert Lands, House of Representatives, inquiring
into the Fish and Wildlife Service’s Law Enforcement capabilities, February 4,
1992, Washington, DC. ‘

Meeting on endangered and threatened species and law enforcement with
J. Michael Hayden, Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks, US
Department of the Interior, February 11, May 27, 1992, Washington, DC.

CITES meeting, March 2 — 13, 1992, Kyoto, Japan, AWI booth exhibit by Cathy Liss.

Environment Subcommittee of the House Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee,
hearings on dolphins caught in tuna nets, March 18, 1992, Washington, DC.

Missouri Agricultural Leaders of Tomorrow (ALOT) Meeting, Pork Producers
Council, US Department of Agriculture, March 21, 1992, Washington, DC,
presentations by Christine Stevens and Cathy Liss.

Meeting with US Trade Representative's office on wild birds, March 23, June 1,
1992, Washington, DC.

Hearings on the Endangered Species Act and the spotted owl, March 24, April 10,
May 13, August 12, 1992, Washington, DC.

Annual meeting of the International Primate Protection League, March 28, 1992,
Summerville, SC, speech by William Cotrcau.

Briefing on US Fish and Wildlife Service Law Enforcement, held by Senator Tim
Wirth, April 1, 1992, Washington, DC.

International Standards Organization, Humane Trap Standards: Meeting of Work-
ing Group 3 on restraining trap standards, April 10; US Technical Advisory Group
meeting on trap standards, April 11, 1992, Spokane, WA.

Jane Goodall Institute Award to Secretary of State James Baker, April 23, 1992,
Washington, DC.

Preparatory meetings on IWC, Humane Society of the United States, May 12, June
10, 1992, Washington, DC.

Congressional briefing on wild bird legislation, June 9, 1992, Washington, DC.

13

 




International Standards Organization, Humane Trap Standards: ISO Technical
Committee meeting on humane trap standards, June 9-1 1, 1992, Brussels, Belgium.

Press conference on wild birds, June 15, 1992, Washington, DC.

Hearing on Wild Bird Conservation Act, Environment Subcommittee of the House
Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee, June 16, 1992, Washington, DC.

IWC meeting, June 29 — July 3, 1992, Glasgow, Scotland.
Weekly meetings of the Monitor Consortium, Washington, DC.
Bi—monthly meetings of the Endangered Species Act Coalition, Washington, DC.

Quarterly meetings of the Entanglement Network, Washington, DC.

k

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Statement of Support, Revenue, Expenses
and Changes in Fund Balances

Year Ended June 30, 1992
With Comparative Totals for the Year Ended June 30, 1991

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Totals
Unrestricted Restricted 1992 1991
Support and revenue:
Contributions:
Save The Whales campaign $ - $107,071 $ 107,071 $115,947
Other contributions 99,676 550 100,226 116,948
Foundations and trusts 32,450 30,000 62,450 67,500
Legacies and bequests 845,360 — 845,360 395,285
Memberships 20,458 — 20,458 26,227
Sale of publications
and reprints 4,917 ' — 4,917 5,802
Dividend income 17 ,77 1 — 17,771 18,61 1
Interest income 5,901 - 5,901 —
Gain on sale of securities 19 - 19 2,379
Other income 938 — 938 1,875
Total support and revenue 1,027,490 137,621 1,165,111 750,574
Expenses:
Program services 415,011 194,677 609,688 524,698
Management and general 91,894 3,691 95,585 90,533
Fund—raising 14,182 3,568 17,750 37,107
Total expenses 521,087 201,936 723,023 652,338
Excess (deficiency) of support
and revenue over expenses 506,403 (64,315) 442,088 98,236
Fund balances at beginning of
year 262,121 64,315 326,436 228,200
Fund balances at end of year $ 768,524 $ - S 768,524 $326,436

 

14

 




)—
LII

Statement of Functional Expenses

Year Ended June 30, 1992 With Comparative Totals for the Year Ended June 30, 1991

Salaries

Payroll taxes and employment insurance

Medical insurance

Advertising

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies

Printing (except for Quarterlies)

Animals and their Legal Rights — Fourth Edition

Research, writing and editing

Grants for whales, dolphins, wild birds and trapping

Conferences, meetings and travel

Postage, mailing and addressing costs (except for
Quarterlies)

Telephone, duplicating and ofﬁce supplies

Professional services

Memberships and subscriptions

Acquisition of books and other educational material

Schweitzer Medal

Consultants — Domestic Animals

Consultants — Wildlife Protection

Posters, ﬂyers and T—shirts

Miscellaneous

Total expenses before depreciation

Depreciation of ﬁxtures and equipment

Total expenses

Program Services

Public

Education
and Pgects

$101,168
9,595
16,172
175
44,904
27,091
13,812
14,575
115,300
18,320

19,901
9,842
2,727
7,220
2,032

2,341
20,303
5,650
345
431,473
2,997
$434,470

Savethe
Whales

$ 15,882
1,215
124
100,115
4,516
4,025
26,000
4,510

9,678
1,338

1,687
5,861
267
175,218

$175,218

Total

$117,050
10,810
16,296
100,290
44,904
31,607
13,812
18,600
141,300
22,830

29,579
11,180
2,727
8,907
2,032
2,341
20,303
11,511
612
606,691
2,997
$609,688

Management
and General

$ 45,947
4,950
3,830

9,901

200
1,526

3,871
6,955
13,208
1,47 1
301

2,426
94,586
999

$ 95,585

Fund-
raising

$ 7,316
684
1,011
1,876
1,805

16,751
999
$ 17,750

Totals

1992

$170,313
16,444
21,137
102,166
44,904
43,313
13,812
18,600
141,500
24,356

36,761
18,135
16,068
10,378

2,333

2,341
20,303
12,126

3,038

7 18,028

4,995

$723,023

A copy of the entire ﬁnancial statement is available upon request to the Animal Welfare Institute or the New York State Board of Social Welfare, Albany, NY 12223

1991

$193,241
17,865
13,966
10,000
44,498
54,215
33,587
830

1 14,500
29,987

29,764
21,478
19,406
9,878
5,630
12,397
300
29,465

4,992
645,999
6,339
$652,338

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007

Directors
Madeleine Bemelmans
Jean Wallace Douglas
David O. Hill
Freeborn G. J ewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Roger L. Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Staff

William Cotreau, Research Associate

John Gleiber, Assistant to the Officers

Diane Halverson, Farm Animal
Consultant

Sara Hawes, Research Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Cathy Liss, Executive Director

Jeffrey F. Myatt, Publications
Coordinator

Jenny Pike, Administrative Assistant

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Greta N ilsson, Wildlife Consultant

Adam Roberts, Research Assistant

Ofﬁcers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freeborn G. J ewett, Jr., Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Scientiﬁc Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico

T. G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece
AmbassadorTabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King - United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru - Kenya

David Ricardo - Canada

Godofredo Stutzin - Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan

Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. - Denmark
Alexey Yablokov - Russia

 

suggested:

Bequests to AWI

To all of you who would like to help assure the Animal Welfare Institute’s
future through a provision in your will, this general form of bequest is

I give, devise and bequeath to the Animal Welfare Institute, a not-for—profit
corporation exempt under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3), located in

 

Washington, DC, the sum of $
property).

provisions with your attorney.

 

and/0r (specifically described

We welcome any inquiries you may have. In cases where you have specific
wishes about the disposition of your bequest, we suggest you discuss such

 

Printed on Recycled Paper

 

 




Animal Welfare Institute
Forty-Second Annual Report
uly 1, 1992 to June 30, 1993

A northern long—haired bobcat. His kind are cruelly persecuted by the fur
trade using steel jaw leghold traps. Photograph by Hope Ryden.

 




 

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

Laboratory dog dealer conspiracy to steal pets

USDA investigator Gregg Nelson checked the records of D & T Kennels and visited
people listed as suppliers of the dogs it sold to laboratories. He found that the dogs
were obtained by answering "free to good home" ads. D & T Kennels then
substituted names and identification numbers of people who had recently renewed
their drivers' licenses for those who had actually given up their dogs.

Nelson succeeded in solving the case in time for a few of the dogs to be rescued, but
25 or 30 dogs a month had been sold to the University of Nevada, Sepulveda
Research Corporation (CA), and Cedars Sinai Medical Center and Veterans
Administration Medical Center in Los Angeles. D & T Kennels was earning
$70,000 to $80,000 a year according to its owner.

One dog, Charlie, traced to a laboratory where he was taking part in a five-year ulcer
study, had to undergo two surgical operations to undo what had been done to him
there.

SlHdV/VCISO

 

USDA investigators with dog saved from laboratory animal dealer.

The judge imposed prison sentences on the dog dealer and the j anitor's daughter who
stole the driver's license information from the Department of Motor Vehicles while
helping her father. It was she who, accompanied by a young child, promised gullible
owners that she would give their dog a good home. Then she delivered the dogs to
the dealer to sell to laboratories for experimentation. The sentences are being
appealed, but the dealer has lost his USDA license to sell dogs.

Lawsuit to compel enforcement of Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals

The treatment of laboratory dogs and primates was the subject of a ruling by US
District Court Judge Charles R. Richey under the Improved Standards for Labora—
tory Animals Amendments to the Animal Welfare Act. He pointed out that the




defendants' regulations for dogs and primates were "arbitrary and capricious" and
"do not provide the minimum requirements mandated in the Act."

Valerie Stanley of the Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF) argued the case for
ALDF, the Society for Animal Protective Legislation and several individual humani—
tarians, including Dr. Roger Fouts, well-known as the mentor of the chimpanzee
Washoe who communicates in American Sign Language with her fellow chimps.

Judge Richey made plain, "The Administrative record shows that the agency and the
commentators on the proposed guidelines agreed that social deprivation is psycho-
logically debilitating to non—human primates. . . . In March, 1989, the agency found
that non-human primates 'need greater space than that required under current
regulations, so they can engage in species—typical activity that is necessary for their
psychological well-being.’ The agency also specifically disagreed with some of the
space requirements used in the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Guide, which
governs non-human primate care in research facilities funded by the Department of
Health and Human Services. However, in the final regulations the agency changed
course and concluded that the existing space requirements used by the NIH were
adequate."

The National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) is doing everything in
its power to block Judge Richey’s decision. AWI members will recall that NABR
managed to create so many obstacles to the promulgation of regulations that the
humane amendments passed in 1985 suffered a seven—year delay. NABR represents
academic institutions, commercial laboratories and purveyors of dogs, cats, mon-
keys, rabbits and smaller animals for laboratory use. The more animals sold for
research and testing, the more profits for the dealers.

New Defense Department investigation ordered

The Department of Defense (DOD) was directed by the House of Representatives
Committee on Armed Services to submit a comprehensive annual report on animal
research, testing, education and training conducted at each DOD facility. The
Committee asked for information on initiatives to replace, refine or reduce animal
experiments, on avoiding unnecessary research and unintended duplication of
research and on the total cost of animal—based research compared with other forms
of biological research conducted by the facility. The Committee also directed the
Secretary of Defense to establish aggressive and targeted programs that replace,
reduce or refine current uses of animals. It requested the DOD Inspector General
to conduct a review of every activity of the Department involving live animals to
ensure that they are treated with basic humaneness and in accordance with the
Animal Welfare Act and DOD regulations.

The Committee further stated that it "expects that animal advocates will be
appointed as the bona fide community members to the animal care and use
committees at every DOD facility." Finally, it requested a General Accounting
Office review.

 




 

Non-animal tests being validated

As substitutes are developed for laboratory animal tests now being conducted
routinely, it is vitally important that the effectiveness and accuracy of humane tests
be demonstrated—but this validation is often expensive. Many institutions shy
away from this work, so an organization has been created especially to undertake
it, Multicenter Evaluation of In Vitro Cytotoxicity (MEIC).

The Scandinavian Society for Cell Toxicology initiated MEIC. Now 84 laborato—
ries throughout the world have joined the study. It aims to validate batteries of non—
animal tests to replace animals in product testing by the end of 1994.

 

WHALES AND DOLPHINS

The whole question of protecting marine mammals from slaughter continued to be
an important and recurring activity throughout the year. At the very end of the 102nd
Congress, the International Dolphin Conservation Act was passed by the Senate by
unanimous consent after Senator John Breaux (D, LA) had been blocking passage
at the request of three (and three only) tuna boat owners who were continuing to set
on dolphins. At the time when die-hard Japanese traders were arraigned for
smuggling whale meat from Taiwan into Japan, Congressman Gerry Studds (D,
MA) announced that whale watching had emerged as a $100 million dollar industry
in his home state of Massachusetts. As Chair of the Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee, Studds led Congress, too, in passage of the High Seas Driftnet
Enforcement Act that legislates trade sanctions against countries that violate
international fishing conservation agreements and denies them port privileges.

Pressure began to build for the Clinton Administration to address practical measures
to protect the world’s whales, dolphins and porpoises. A three point plan was
suggested at the behest of Allan Thornton of the Environmental Investigation
Agency, long closely allied with the Animal Welfare Institute.

1)Seek a permanent ban on commercial whaling and reorient the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) Scientific Committee toward helping marine mam—
mal survival rather than tortuous mathematical game plans on killing quotas.

2)Bring all whales and dolphins under the jurisdiction of the IWC functioning
as an expanded International Cetacean Conservation Committee to develop techni—
cal and scientific assistance to all nations.

3)Emphasize the economic and ecological benefits of benign programs for
whale studies, and undertake increased research on environmental threats to whales.

Again Chairman Studds came to the forefront of the battle by spearheading a
Concurrent Resolution against the resumption of commercial whaling which passed
by a roll call vote of 382—0 and passed the Senate by unanimous consent. This is
incontrovertible proof that the intent of Congress to protect whales is as strong as
ever.




Japan’s government, against all reason, launched an expensive “Eat Whale Meat”
campaign to force the IWC to allow a resumption of commercial Whaling. They were
heartened by their success at the Convention for International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) where they managed to pressure Sweden
into withdrawing its proposal to list the blue fin tuna as endangered.

At the IWC, the Revised
Management Procedure
began to rear its ugly head.
Supported by trade inter—
ests, it is another attempt
to justify the killing of
whales on the grounds that
populations can survive
commercial take. It is a
plan relying on unproven,
perhaps specious, data and
can only lead to further
decimation of whale
stocks for frivolous rea-
sons, supplying whale
products for which sub-
stitutes exist.

 

The eye of a harpoonedfin whale.

The Clinton Administration, in the person of US delegation head Dr. Michael
Tillman, distinguished itself at the annual meeting of the IWC in Kyoto, Japan.
Reversing the disastrous maneuvering of the previous meeting, where the US
Commissioner seemed to bow to pro—whaling interests, the Revised Management
Procedure was rejected decisively, new resolutions were adopted for small ceta—
ceans, reports on environmental threats were given serious attention, a UK resolu—
tion on the economic value of whale watching was adopted by consensus and a
resolution reconvening a humane killing workshop for 1995 was also adopted by
consensus. US resolutions asking Norway and Japan to withdraw their scientific
whaling were adopted while a Japanese resolution asking for the IWC endorsement
of scientific whaling was defeated.

A wonderful IWC and a far cry from the toadying US behavior at preceding
meetings.

Certainly, all the news was not good. The Commerce Department, against the
objections of the Marine Mammal Commission, took the California gray whale
from the Endangered Species List, calling it fully recovered. This, although
environmental threats can pose serious problems for these lovable creatures, the
stars of Pacific Coast whale watching. This came at a time when it was revealed that
in the North Pacific, Russians are killing gray whales to supply food for their
commercial fur farms.

poomraqmeq uaudais

 




 

 

STEEL JAW LEGHOLD TRAP

European Union Regulation

The battle against the steel jaw 1e ghold trap rages on. Events in the coming year will
be pivotal because the anti-steel jaw 1e ghold trap Regulation passed by the European
Community (now the European Union) goes into effect in 1995. All member
countries must end use of leghold traps by 1995, and they will not be permitted to
import furs from beaver, otter, coyote, wolf, lynx, bobcat, sable, raccoon, muskrat,
fisher, badger, marten, or ermine from countries that have not banned the steel trap
for capture of these species or met "internationally agreed humane trapping
standards. "

Meanwhile, the fur industry, the trappers and trap manufacturers cling to the steel
jaw leghold trap with passionate intensity They are doing their utmost to subvert
the European Regulation by working through the Geneva- based Intematlonal
Organization for Stan— ‘ - ‘ "
dardization (ISO). To
bring a strong voice for
the animals into the here—
tofore clubby discussions,
AWI sought and obtained
voting membership on the
advisory group respon—
sible for determining the
US position on intema—
tional “humane” trap stan-
dards under the aegis of
the ISO. AWI Executive
Director Cathy Liss is the
only animal welfare ad—
vocate who has been able
to gain admittance to date.
The majority of members of the US Technical Advisory Group are eager to continue
use of the steel jaw trap, and they vote accordingly. They elected Tom Krause, editor
of the National Trappers Association's magazine, American Trapper, to the chair.

A yearling beaver in his 1in pond eyes a human frzena’.

Nearly everyone involved in determining “humane” trap standards is a trapper, used
to the gruesome sight of trap—induced injuries. Traps which tear ligaments,
amputate toes or break bones would be approved as "humane" under the current
draft standard. Steel jaw leghold traps would be established for good under its
terms. AWI has circulated thousands of petitions urging ISO to drop this false and
deceptive use of the word "humane."

William D. Rogers, a senior partner at the prestigious law firm of Arnold and Porter,
is generously assisting AWI pro bono in our struggle.

 

map/(3 adoH




Arizona Referendum

When the citizens of Arizona voted on a proposal to ban steel jaw leghold traps on
public lands, 13,690 Arizonians voted to ban the trap, but 15,268 opposed it. The
Scottsdale Progress, October 23, explained the reason for the defeat.

Proposition 200, which would ban the use of steel— jawed traps on public land, has
been the target of one of the most misleading advertising campaigns in Arizona
history. With lots of money from out-of—state interests and the National Riﬂe
Association, opponents have hammered away at their theme that this amendment
would automatically ban hunting and fishing in Arizona beginning the day after the
election. . . .

 

Btaqan qog/ uotsstuuad Kq paiuinQH

 

New um ATW ;{3 m,
[vow wrmms
“EVEN? 17F? LEG? g <3 ﬁamnguzsm rum».

 

 

 

 

THE WILD BIRD CONSERVATION ACT

Years of study by AWI Wildlife Consultant Greta Nilsson on the commercial trade
in wild birds contributed in large measure to Congress' decision to enact the Wild
Bird Conservation Act (WB CA) of 1992. Painstaking statistical research published
in a series of AWI books, together with Nilsson's perceptive analysis of the reasons
for the appalling volume of injury and death, were crucial to the final outcome.

Assistant Secretary for Fish, Wildlife and Parks, Michael Hayden, gave strong
testimony at hearings in the House of Representatives chaired by Representative
Gerry Studds (D, MA) and at Senate hearings chaired by Senator Max Baucus (D,
MT). Secretary Hayden stated:

Experts estimate that for every bird offered for sale in a pet store, up to five died
along the way. According to the US Department of Agriculture, in one 5-year
period from 1985 to 1990, 79,192 birds died while in transit to the United States,
and 258,451 died while in quarantine or were refused entry because of Newcastle
Disease, which is fatal to poultry.

Congressman Studds brought the bill to the House ﬂoor in August, and it passed the
Senate in October.

 




 

   

Iiéuﬁr Imun

Baby Amazon parrots illegally on sale.

The Act provides that the many species of birds listed on the Appendices of the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) be banned from commercial importation by October 22, 1993, unless the
Secretary has issued a scientific finding to the contrary. Thoroughly documented
petitions to the Secretary of the Interior have been prepared by AWI, the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation, the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) and
other groups to prohibit, under the terms of the WBCA, importation of birds from
countries that fail to meet humane, scientific and the necessary administrative
standards. The African grey parrot, which has been especially subject to smuggling
across the borders of the many African countries Where no members of this
remarkable species exist, is the subject of an EIA petition to the Secretary requesting
that its importation cease.

AWI's companion organization, the Society for Animal Protective Legislation,
played a major role in enactment of this greatly needed law.

NAFTA—The North American Free Trade Agreement ——

The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) could undermine numerous
laws protecting animals from cruel treatment and population decline and could
reverse thirty years of advances in animal protection. The General Agreement on
Tariffs and trade (GATT) poses similar threats.

Under NAFTA, vital trade—related sections of humane laws including the Marine
Mammal Protection Act, the Federal Humane Slaughter Act and Wild Bird
Conservation Act can be considered "technical barriers to trade" and subject to
challenge by foreign govemments—not just Canada and Mexico, but any nations
that enter into the NAFTA in the future.

AWI helped coordinate the animal protection community's effort to educate
Americans about NAFTA's harmful implications. We also sought modifications to




the NAFTA to prevent animal welfare and species conservation efforts from being
compromised in the name of free trade. However, the United States Trade Repre-
sentative was unwilling to renegotiate NAFTA' s harmful provisions.

In a written response to our listing of eight laws that would be subject to challenge,
President Clinton declared that, "The United States will continue to maintain and
enforce these laws." To do so, the federal government may be forced to pay
substantial fines.

 

NEAR EXTINCTION OF RHINOS AND TIGERS

AWI has joined with the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) and other
organizations to boycott Taiwanese goods in protest against that nation's consump—
tion of the critically endangered rhinos and tigers as medicine, food, wine and
aphrodisiacs.

EIA investigators working undercover have brought to light the shameful facts.
They report that the street value of some rhino species is higher than gold and that
Taiwanese dealers are speculating on the extinction of the species and stockpiling
horn in the expectation of enormously increasing their profits. A main smuggling
route is via South Africa to Taiwan. This illegal trade is intimately linked to the
banned ivory trade.

 

A black rhino headed for extinction.

The Standing Committee which governs the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora has called for "direct action to acquire
and destroy rhino horn. " AWI is urging a US embargo of Taiwanese products under
the Pelly Amendment.

Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt wrote to both Taiwan and China in June warning
of trade sanctions if they do not act to stop trade in rhino and tiger parts.

 

 




 

 

THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly has a wide distribution both nationally and

internationally to individuals and organizations, including public libraries, police
chiefs, deans of medical and veterinary schools, animal protective organizations,
teachers, scientists and AWI members. Following are summaries of some of the
articles not mentioned in the main body of this Annual Report.

SUMMER 1992, Vol. 41, No. 3

0 Dr. Birute Galdikas devotes her life to study and rehabilitation of orangutans
at Camp Leakey in the rainforest of Borneo. She is the preeminent authority on the
endangered red—haired apes, having observed them for more than 80,000 hours. The
orangs are threatened by Indonesian loggers, who fell a million hectares of forest
each year, and by illegal capture for the pet trade centered in Taiwan.

 

0 Final regulations on "Humane and Healthful Transport of Wild Mammals
and Birds" went into effect September 15, 1992. Pet trade lobbyists held up the
regulations for 11 years. If strictly implemented, they will end the overcrowding,
extreme heat or cold, and lack of food and water that killed hundreds of thousands
of pet trade birds and other animals.

0 Immuno AG, the Austrian commercial laboratory notorious for having sued
dozens of critics of its practices with respect to wild-caught chimpanzees, has built
a $20 million facility for experimentation on chimpanzees. Immuno has prosecuted
its SLAPP (Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation) suits with unrelenting
intensity. For example, Dr. Moor-Jankowski was pursued for seven years till
Immuno's lawsuit was struck down by the New York Court of Appeals. Moor—
Jankowski's legal costs reached $2 million.

FALL 1992, Vol. 41, No. 4

O - Dr. Viktor Reinhardt received the 1992 award from Psychologists for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals (PsyETA) in recognition of his reform of the housing
of hundreds of monkeys in the Wisconsin Regional Primate Center. More than 95%
of the monkeys now have companions due to his sound and thoroughly documented,
scientifically—based efforts which PsyETA called "an enrichment capable of easing
pain and allowing pleasure. "

O The total number of airlines that have banned transport of wild-caught birds
has passed the 100 mark. Kenya Airways stopped under strong pressure from the
Environmental Investigation Agency, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds
and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, but Air Afrique
remains unconcerned about the cruelty and death caused by the transport and trade.

10




0 Judge James W. Kehoe rejected the plea bargain offered by attorneys for

Matthew Block, the big Miami animal dealer who is under indictment for
smuggling baby orangutans. Block's Worldwide Primates is one of the largest
animal-brokering businesses on earth. On August 10, one hundred and ten
monkeys imported by Block from Indonesia were found dead on arrival on a
Lufthansa ﬂight. ‘

WINTER 1993, Vol. 42, No. l

O In 1986, the late Justice Thurgood Marshall dissented when a majority of
Supreme Court Justices ruled that Japan's future compliance with the moratorium
on commercial whaling was a "certainty." "It is uncontested here," he wrote, " that
Japan's taking of whales has been flagrant, consistent and substantial. Such gross
disregard for international norms set for the benefit of the entire world represents
the core of what Congress set about to punish and to deter. . . Justice Marshall's
prophetic words of wisdom must not be forgotten.

O A letter from the editor of The American Trapper was published complaining
that "In a blatant attempt to damage my credibility, your report mentions I am a
trapper who uses the steel jaw trap. Yes I do, for certain species and in addition to
other types of trapping equipment. You should know that there is ample evidence
steel jaw traps are needed and can be used humanely both as restraining devices and
in humane killing systems."

0 Since 1910 Norwegian whalers have killed more than 725,000 whales. By
1904 they had destroyed the great whale stocks off northern Norway. They
expanded to Spitzbergen, Iceland, Newfoundland, the F aroes, Shetlands, Hebrides
and Ireland. In each of these countries, Norwegian whalers severely depleted the
great whale populations. They spread to Alaska, Australia, East Asia and the North-
Pacific, New Zealand, Peru, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and Mexico, the Falklands,
South Georgia, South Orkney, South Shetlands and the Kerguelen Islands. Norway
then over-hunted humpback and fin whales, with their catch of the latter species
dropping from 10,906 in 1948 to 1,229 in 1959 to 137 in 1960 because they couldn't
find the whales to kill.

SPRING 1993, Vol. 42, No. 2

o Ethologist/ecologist Iqbal Malik wrote about the free—ranging rhesus mon—
keys in India. Photographed with a friendly group of resident monkeys, she
provides advice on coping with the results of indiscriminate trapping. She writes,
"They deserve a peaceful co—existence with their human cousins."

O A referendum vote in Colorado ended the spring bear hunt and prohibited
baiting and hunting bears with dogs. The Colorado Wildlife Commission tried to
retain and lengthen the hunt that causes cubs to starve when their mothers are killed,
but the Commission lost by more than one million votes.

I Turtle Excluder Devices (TEDs) have at last been made mandatory for all
shrimp trawlers. Shrimp trawlers without TEDs were responsible for more sea turtle
deaths than all other sources of human—caused mortality combined.

11

 

 




 

SPEECHES MADE AND MEETINGS ATTENDED
BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

Meeting regarding laboratory animal welfare and alternatives with Dr. Bernadine
Healy, Director, National Institutes of Health, July 2 and 30, 1992, Bethesda, MD.

American Veterinary Medical Association Annual Meeting, AWI exhibit booth.
August 1—5, 1992, Boston, MA.

Presentation on Orangutans by Birute Galdikas, August 15, 1992, Washington, DC.

CITES Strategy Meetings/Species Survival Network, August 20; December 2,
1992; January 22; March 1; March 23; May 20, 1993, Washington, DC.

Strategy meeting on Norwegian Boycott, Humane Society of the United States,
August 27, 1992, Washington, DC.

Fund for Animals Annual Conference, September 6, 1992, Harrisburg, PA.

National Animal Damage Control Advisory Committee Meeting, September 21-
22, 1992, Ft. Collins, CO.

International Organization for Standardization (ISO), Humane Trap Standards:
Meeting of Working Group 2 on killing trap standards, September 23; Meeting of
Working Group 3 on restraining trap standards, September 24—25; US Technical
Advisory Group meeting on trap standards, September 26, 1992, Toronto, Canada.

Save Our Swans Meetings, September 24, 1992, Airlie, VA, November 5, 1992,
Washington, DC.

Rhino Task Force Meetings, September 28; November 23, 1992; January 19;
February 10; June 11, 1993, Washington, DC.

Elephant Strategy Meeting, September 29, 1992, Washington, DC.

Meeting with Malcolm Stamper and Judy Golden about humane education pro-
gram, "Operation Outreach", Octoberl, 1992, Washington, DC.

International Whaling Commission (IWC) interagency meetings, October 1,1992;
January, 13; March 18; April 19; 1993, Washington, DC.

Massachusetts Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals award to Christine
Stevens, October 22, 1992, Boston, MA.

Meeting with Norwegian Ambassador regarding whaling issues, November 2, 1992
Washington, DC.

United States Animal Health Association Annual Meeting, November 3, 1992,
Louisville, KY. Cathy Liss speech to the Animal Welfare Committee.

Meeting with Alexey Yablokov, Special Adviser to the President of Russia for
Ecology and Health, regarding situation in former Soviet Union, November 11,
1992, Washington, DC.

Whale Strategy meetings, August 27; December 14, 1992; February 4; March 8;
April 15; June 21, 1993, Washington, DC.

12




Meetings on the Wild Bird Trade, December 29, 1992; January 28; March 15; May
18, 1993; Washington, DC.

US Fish and Wildlife Service Public Meeting on Rhinoceros Conservation, January
21, 1993, Washington, DC.

Whale Sanctuary discussion with the Antarctica Working Group, January 26, 1993.

Whale policy meetings, Commerce Department, January 26; February 19; June 30,
1993, Washington, DC.

Judge Richey hearing on the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals amend—
ments to the Animal Welfare Act, February 5, 1993, Washington, DC.

Boycott Taiwan Launch, February 25, 1993, Washington, DC.

Meeting regarding EC Trapping Regulation with Dr. Lawrence Eicher, Secretary-
General of ISO, Madron Seligman, Member of the European Parliament and David
Wilkins, Director of Eurogroup for Animal Welfare, March 2, 1993, Geneva,
Switzerland.

Reception for members of the Standing Committee of the Convention on Intema—
tional Trade in Endangered Species, March 3, 1993, Washington, DC.

Endangered Species Act Conference, March 26—29, 1993, Washington, DC.

Meeting with representatives of the American National Standards Institute re gard-
ing US Technical Advisory Group on Humane Trap Standards, April 9, 1993, New
York, NY.

US Fish and Wildlife Service bird policy meeting, April 14, 1993, Washington, DC.

Sentencing of Matthew Block, convicted of felony conspiracy in the smuggling of
six infant orangutans, April 15-16, 1993 , Miami, FL. Cathy Liss statement to Judge
James Kehoe. '

International Whaling Commission Scientific, Technical and Full Committee
meetings, April 19 — May 14, 1993, Kyoto, Japan.

Whale policy meeting with National Security Council, April 29 and June 29, 1993,
Washington, DC.

Meetings to discuss the future of the US Wildlife Refuge System, April 29 and May
26, 1993, Washington, DC.

Briefing on the National Biological Survey, May 17, 1993, Washington, DC.
Rebuild America Conference on NAFTA, June 10—12, 1993, Washington, DC.
CITES Law [Enforcement Task Force meeting, June 11, 1993, Washington, DC.

Hearing on the Endangered Species Act and Habitat Conservation Plans, June 16,
1993, Washington, DC.

US Fish and Wildlife Service Public Meeting on CITES Listing Criteria, June 16,
1993, Washington, DC.

13

 




 

Meeting on IUCN Listing Criteria, June 25, 1993, Washington, DC.

Bi—weekly meetings of the Citizens Trade Campaign on NAFTA, Washington, DC.

Weekly meetings of the Monitor Consortium, Washington, DC.

Bi—monthly meetings of the Endangered Species Act Coalition, Washington, DC.

Quarterly meetings of the Entanglement Network, Washington, DC.

Bi—monthly meetings of the Marine Mammal Protection Coalition, Washington,

DC.

 

STATEMENT OF SUPPORT, REVENUE, EXPENSES, AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1993 (WITH COMPARATIVE TOTALS FOR THE YEAR ENDED

JUNE 30, 1992)

SUPPORT AND REVENUE:
Contributions:
Save the Whales
campaign
Other contributions
Foundations and trusts
Legacies and bequests
Memberships
Sale of publications
and reprints
Dividend income
Interest income
Gain on sale of securities
Other income

Total support
and revenue

EXPEN S ES :
Program services
Management and general
Fund-raising

Total expenses

EXCESS (DEFICIENCY) OF
SUPPORT AND REVENUE
OVER EXPENSES

OTHER CHANGES IN FUND'
BALANCES:
Transfer to fund restricted
deﬁciency

Net changes

FUND BALANCES,
BEGINNING OF YEAR

FUND BALANCES,
END OF YEAR

14

 

1 993
Unrestricted Restricted Total
$ - $120,833 $120,833
105,064 - 105,064
51,714 45,000 96,714
159,845 - 159,845
14,048 — 14,048
3,513 - 3,513
8,726 - 8,726
35,347 — 35,347
7,672 - 7,672
938 - 938
386,867 165,833 552,700
477,823 167,163 644,986
90,945 4,722 95,667
14,047 2,527 16,574
582,815 174,412 757,227
(195,948) (8,579) (204,527)
(8,579) 8,579 -
(204,5 27) — (204,5 27)
768,524 — 768,524
$563,997 $ - $563,997

1 992
Total

$ 107,071
100,226
62,450
845,360
20,458

4,917
17,771
5,901

19
938

1,165,111

609,688
95,585
17,750

723,023

442,088

442,088
326,436

$ 768,524




STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1993 (WITH COMPARATIVE TOTALS FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1992)

Program Services
Public
Educaﬁon

Management

Save the and Fund- Totals

l—t
LII

and Projects Whales Total

Salaries

Payroll taxes and employment insurance

Medical insurance

Advertising

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies

Printing and publications (except for Quarterlies)

Animals and their Legal Rights - Fourth Edition

Research, writing, and editing

Grants for whales, dolphins, wild birds, and trapping

Conferences, meetings, and travel

Postage, mailing, and addressing costs (except for
Quarterlies)

Telephone, duplicating, and ofﬁce supplies

Professional services

Memberships and subscriptions

Acquisition of books and other educational
materials

Consultants - Domestic Animals

Consultants - Wildlife Protection

Posters, ﬂyers, and T-shirts

Miscellaneous

Total expenses before depreciation
Depreciation of ﬁxtures and equipment

TOTAL EXPENSES

$100,351
9,654
19,552

41,485
6,748

12,327
181,750
9,426

29,868
12,317
110
8,129

2,642
10,172
30,740

126

 

475,397

2,426

 

$477,823

 

 

$ 19,823
1,659

74,272
2,326
7,517

27,000
13,374

12,147
1,108

1,817

6,120

 

167,163

 

$167,163

 

 

$120,174
11,313
19,552
74,272
43,811
14,265

12,327
208,750
22,800

42,015
13,425
110
9,946

2,642
16,292
30,740

126

 

642,560

2,426

 

$644,986

 

 

General

$49,132
5,933
7,098
645

4,418

819

3,366
9,846
11,257
524

377

 

809

 

$95,667

 

 

raising 1993

$ 7,511
704
1,222
1,460
1,034
1,390

 

 

 

 

$176,817
17,950
27,872
76,377
44,845
20,073

12,327
209,569
22,800

47,649
23,447
1 1,367
10,470

3,019
16,292
30,740

1,569

 

753,183
4,044

$757,227

 

 

A copy of the entire financial statement is available upon request to the Animal Welfare Institute or the New York State Board of Social Welfare, Albany, NY 12223

1992

$170,313
16,444
21,137
102,166
44,904
43,313
13,812
18,600
141,500
24,356

36,761
18,135
16,068
10,378

2,333
2,341
20,303
12,126

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007

Directors

Madeleine Bemelmans
Jean Wallace Douglas
David O. Hill
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Roger L. Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Staff

Jennifer Coates, Publications
Coordinator

John Gleiber, Assistant to the
Officers

Diane Halverson, Farm Animal
Consultant

Sara Hawes, Research Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Cathy Liss, Executive Director

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Greta N ilsson, Wildlife Consultant

Jenny Pike, Administrative Assistant

Adam Roberts, Research Associate

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. — Mexico

T. G. Antikas, D.M.V. — Greece
AmbassadorTabarak Husain — B an gladesh
Angela King - United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo - Canada

Godofredo Stutzin - Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo — Japan

Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. - Denmark
Alexey Yablokov — Russia

 

suggested:

Washington, DC, the sum of $

Bequests t0 AWI

To all of you who would like to help assure the Animal Welfare Institute’s
future through a provision in your Will, this general form of bequest is

I give, devise and bequeath to. the Animal Welfare Institute, a not~for-profit
corporation exempt under Internal Revenue Code Section 5 01 ( c )( 3 ), located in

and/or (speciﬁcally described

 

property )_.

provisions with your attorney.

 

We welcome any inquiries you may have. In caSes where you have specific
wishes about the disposition of; your bequest, we suggest you discuss such

 

 

Printed on Recycled Paper

 




  

32 5cm 33.. 8 2:: .H ﬁi
.395 12:23 ataowﬁaﬁ

 

 

     

 

[9AA [1911111112

J

   

 

I 3.18

 

 

7/
7
/

ﬂ/
./ I /

/ ,.
2/ 7.7,

i,

9411111311

   




 

trapping

 

 

Time may be running out on continued use of the
steel jaw leghold trap. The historic 1991 European Union
(EU) ban on the use of leghold traps included a provision
banning import of certain furs from countries that have not
either banned these traps or met “internationally agreed
humane trapping standards.” The ruling was to have gone into
effect in 1995, but was postponed until January 1, 1996.
Trappers and the fur industry are scrambling desperately to
delay, weaken, or circumvent the ban.

An intense back-room battle over “humane trapping
standards” has raged in the United States and Canada in
anticipation of the ban, and AWI has been at the forefront
of the debate. Leghold trap supporters are bent on
corrupting the standards process, seeking standards that
would allow broken bones, massive tissue damage, severed
tendons and lost toes as acceptable injuries—thus permit-
ting continued use of the steel jaw leghold trap in the
United States and Canada, where it is the most widely used
trap. They have also used the smokescreen of championing
the so-called “padded” trap, which—only cosmetically pad-
ded—causes intense pain and suffering.

A standards-mak-
ing panel was set up
= in 1987 by the Inter-
national Organization
for Standardization
. (ISO). AWI Executive
Director Cathy Liss
was the first animal
f welfare advocate to

. .1 - : . gain admittance to the

The pltght of this fox illustrates the US Technical AdVi-

d t d b t l ' l - .
amage of en one y S 68 Jaw eg sory Group, accredlted

hold traps. .
by the Amerlcan Na-

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Dr. L.A. Wol

      

‘3‘

 




tional Standards Institute (ANSI) to participate in the ISO
process. Further, AWI strove diligently on furbearers’
behalf in a series of hearings on the leghold trap Regulation
before ANSI.

Leghold trap proponents, under the banner of “free
trade,” put pressure on the governments of the US and
Canada to oppose the Regulation. AWI organized a
demonstration at the ofﬁces of US Trade Representative
Mickey Kantor, urging him to stand fast and comply with
the Regulation.*

AWI helped the Canadian Alliance for Furbearing
Animals organize a demonstration at the June 1995
summit of the G-7 (group of seven industrialized nations)
in Halifax, Nova Scotia. The protest, which included AWI’s
Adam Roberts demonstrating a leghold trap, sent a clear
message to world leaders.

The vast majority of Americans—over 78%, according to
a Yale University survey—are opposed to leghold traps.
The World Veterinary Association, the American Veteri-
nary Medical Association and the European Commission’s
Scientiﬁc Veterinary Committee have stated they consider
leghold traps inhumane.

whales and whaling

 

 

WI’s longtime effort to keep whales safe and end their
needless slaughter plies on against the customary tide
of opposition from whaling nations. The International
Whaling Commission (IWC), at its May 1995 meeting in
Dublin, strongly censured the continued whaling activities
of Japan and Norway, and took serious steps toward
stopping the illegal trade of whale meat.
The IWC opposed Japan’s Southern Ocean Whaling
operations, which are dishonestly labeled “scientific re-
search” though the thousands of tons of meat produced by

 

* Kantor has since capitulated to fur interests, announcing in August 1995
that he would join Canada in a World Trade Organization challenge of the
EU Regulation. .

03

Buidden

 

 

 




 

whales and whaling A;

 

the hunt is sold to restaurants for purely commercial use.
Not one of the “scientific permits” Japan issues itself has
been approved by the IWC. The Commission voted that
research Whaling in the Southern Ocean Sanctuary be
limited to non-lethal means, but Japan defied the IWC,
even increasing the kill by 50 whales.

Norwegian scientists admitted that the population
estimates they had used to determine catch quotas for
minke whales were inaccurate, due to a computer error.
They revised their estimates in light of this, but the IWC’s
scientific committee believed the figures were still too high,
so the catch quota Norway allotted itself stood on no
reliable scientific ground. In the face of public opinion, and
a stern IWC resolution condemning its whaling activities,
Norway stubbornly continued to hunt minke whales.

Anti-whaling efforts succeeded in holding off the feared
resumption of commercial whaling this year, as the IWC
did not move any closer to implementing its Revised
Management Scheme, which would lift the nine-year-old
moratorium on commercial whaling.

Further, the IWC voted to impose random DNA tests on
stockpiles of whale meat to identify what species it came from,
which could help stop the illicit trade in pirated, laundered, and
smuggled whale meat. Norway attempted last summer to
overturn the ban on international trade in whale meat. The
Norwegian government, hoping to bolster its ﬁnancially
troubled whaling industry, petitioned the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) to downlist
minke whales from Appendix I to Appendix II, which would
allow the meat to be sold in Japan, where whale meat is in
great demand and fetches much higher prices than in Norway.
The proposal was summarily defeated at the CITES conference
in November 1994.

AWI helped get long—overdue attention paid to small
cetaceans this year as the US State Department provided a
$25,000 grant for a cooperative US/Russian study of beluga
whales. Dr. Alexey Yablokov, a valued member of AWI’s
international committee, is closely involved in the study.




y laboratory animals

 

 

“ andom source dealers are bad news,” AWI Executive
RDirector Cathy Liss told the National Association for
Biomedical Research (NABR), speaking at that association’s
annual meeting. “The only way to stop pet theft, acquisi-
tion of pets by fraud, payments made under the table and
other illegal activities that are the modus operandi of the
dealer network is to stop use of random source dealers.”
Liss’s speech is part of AWI’s ongoing campaign
against random source (Class B) animal dealers, who
are notorious for their 1nhumane treatment of an1mals and
their shady meth- " ' ' " '
ods of acquiring
them. In April
1995, major deal-
ers Julian and
Anita Toney had
their licenses re-
voked for viola—
tions of the Ani-
mal Welfare Act
(AWA) and were
fined $200,000—
the largest penalty

ever assessed un- A 't' d d l
UlC am 0 a ran 0m SOUI‘CQ ea er
der the AWA—for 7”

 

misrepresentation and falsification of records and
appalling sanitary conditions.

In a broader sphere, AWI continued to educate the
public and the scientific community about ways to improve
conditions for laboratory animals, to promote alternative
methods of testing; to reduce, refine, and replace research
on animals.

AWI developed a new, expanded edition of the useful
“Bibliography for Members of Institutional Animal Care

 




 

laboratory animals on

 

and Use Committees (IACUCs).” Under the provisions of
the AWA each institution must appoint an IACUC, at least
one of whose members represents community concerns for
the welfare of the animals used. Twice—yearly inspections
of the institution’s animal quarters are required, and
principal investigators must submit their animal use plans
to ensure that pain and distress are minimized. The new
AWI bibliography* will help IACUC members reduce
animal suffering.

The need for keenly watching how animals are used
in research was vividly demonstrated in December
1994 when Fisons Pharmaceutical was fined $7,500 for
violations of the AWA. Fisons’ laboratories were
responsible for a shocking amount of incompetence
and cruelty, as 30% of the dogs used in a stroke study
died before the study was completed. According to the
US Department of Agriculture, surgery was performed
on the dogs without anesthesia, analgesics or tran-
quilizers, and in the absence of trained veterinary
supervision.

Carolina Biological Supply, a major supplier of cat
cadavers and other animal “specimens” to schools and
colleges was fined $2,500 for failing to keep adequate
records on acquisition and identification of the cats.

In March 1995, Wright State University in Dayton,
Ohio, was fined $25,000 under the AWA, for gross failure
to provide adequate veterinary care for dogs in its charge.
Problems at Wright State included untreated or misdiag-
nosed illnesses and injuries and several instances of failure
to use proper anaesthetics. One of the dogs died, tragically,
of severe anemia from untreated hookworm.

The stiff penalties levied against Carolina Biological
Supply, the Toneys, Fisons Pharmaceutical and Wright
State University may indicate a welcome trend toward
sterner punishment for AWA violators, and thus getting
better treatment for the animals involved.

 

* Published in October 1995.




farm animals

 

 

WI joined this year in an unprecedented partnership

with family farmers, environmentalists and citizens
groups to combat factory farming, the Campaign for Family
Farms and the Environment (CFFE). AWI, which is
vehemently opposed to the cruel conditions animals suffer
in factory farms, was among the first groups to join in the
campaign.

When a huge factory hog farm sought to set up
operations in a small Missouri township against wishes of
its residents, CFFE launched a rally and a protest march
from the township to Ames, Iowa, the site of the Rural
Conference held by President Clmton Vice President Gore,
and Secretary of Agriculture '
Dan Glickman. Willie Nelson’s
Farm Aid organzation has
assisted CFFE since its incep-
tion, and Nelson entertained
the 3,000-strong crowd at the
rally. Diane Halverson* spoke
at the rally and met with
Glickman to discuss the cru-
elty of factory farms.

AWI and CFFE are also A sow kept an cruel confinement
active in North Carolina, in a hog faCtory
where hog-factory pork production is increasing at an
astonishing rate. There is widespread concern about
the industry’s growing power and about whether the
land can sustain the environmental impact of the huge
hog factories. Poorly managed hog waste is leaking
into groundwater, noxious-gases and offensive odors
are suffusing the air, millions of pigs are kept in
cruelly confining crates, and communities are being

 

 

* Representing the Humane Farming Association and AWI

 

uoggmoossV gugwcmd aumun H :ogoyd

 

 




 

farm animals 00

 

the industry.

In the Summer of 1995, several major spills from hog
manure cesspools that the industry calls “lagoons”—one of
25 million gallons—made headlines. The largest of these
polluted the New River severely, killing millions of ﬁsh and
ﬂooding fields with foul—smelling waste; the environmental
impact of large-scale factory farming is being brought to
public notice. ‘

A video detailing the cruelty of intensive confinement
and factory hog farm conditions, The Pig Picture, is
available through AWI. The video is narrated by Richard
Kiley and was produced by the Humane Farming Associa-
tion with assistance from AWI.

The US Department of Agriculture has made laudable
steps to stop the brutal face branding of cattle, which causes
severe pain, distress and nerve damage. AWI has fought
hot iron face branding for years. In August 1994, USDA
withdrew a proposal which would have required the cruel
face branding of all cattle imported into the United States
from Mexico. USDA changed its spaying requirements for
Mexican cattle, a protocol which glaringly failed to require
anesthesia for ovariectomy surgery; it does now.

The European Union, extended its moratorium on
injecting dairy cows with the bovine growth hormone rBST
(recombinant bovine somatotropin) until the year 2000.
This drug is still in use in the United States despite a
frequent incidence in rBST-treated cows of severe mastitis
(a painful infection), digestive disorders, ovarian cysts,
lesions, shortened gestation and low birth weight of calves.
Bones deteriorate as the cow is robbed of her calcium.

To date only Vermont has passed a labeling law so that
consumers can buy milk from cows who have not been
subjected to cruel rBST injections. A similar bill is pending
in Congress.

In November 1994, a Canadian television show reported
that Canada’s Bureau of Veterinary Drugs was offered one
to two million dollars by rBST’s manufacturer, Monsanto,
to approve the drug “without further studies or trials.”

‘0'-

E“; g?

£.;_—'




w

“a E: v‘

endangered species

 

 

The ninth Conference of the Parties to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora (CITES) was held in Fort Lauderdale, Florida in
November 1994. AWI sent representatives to CITES and
Operated an informational booth, working to defend the
treaty against weakening by exploiters of wildlife, whose
presence at CITES has increased menacingly in recent
years.

African elephants, whose numbers are just beginning to
recover from severe depletion thanks to CITES protection,
were major beneficiaries of the 1994 conference. The 1990
ban on ivory trade was assailed by South Africa, which
proposed downlisting its African elephant population to
Appendix II, allowing ivory trade to resume." Thanks to the
clamor of African elephant range countries, South Africa
withdrew the proposal.

Wrongheaded changes to the criteria for listing species
under CITES were proposed by the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature, which would have weakened
the treaty immeasurably had they been adopted. The
proposal would have installed a rigid population threshold
of 5,000 mature individuals to decide whether the species
needed protection, rather than considering species indi-
vidually. US Fish and Wildlife Service Director Mollie
Beattie summed up the disastrous nature of the proposal,
saying that “Conservation biology cannot be one—size-fits-
all.”

Next year’s CITES conference is to be held in Zimbabwe,
whose wildlife managers desperately want to sell ivory and
rhino horn. Ominously, J apan—which has a long history as
a consumer of endangered and threatened wildlife—has .
reportedly offered to pay Zimbabwe’s meeting costs. Japan, as
Chair of CITES’ Standing Committee, has disallowed presen-
tations from conservationists and set up a stacked-deck panel

 




i
‘ l

 

endangered species 5

 

of “independent consultants” to “review the effectiveness of
CITES.”

The Endangered Species Act (ESA), which has helped
make the United States a world leader in protecting
animals from extinction, is being attacked by anti-conser-
vation forces in Congress. “Wise use” has become a
demagogic code word for an attempt to roll back 20 years
of signiﬁcant progress on environmental and pro-animal
legislation. As the ESA faces reauthorization, changes are
being proposed that would seriously impair its functioning.
Among these is the controversial “takings” notion; should
it become law, landowners and industries who threaten to
destroy animal habitats would be paid by the government
not to do so.

The Wild Bird Conservation Act, another important
animal protection statute, also faces a difficult
reauthorization in Congress this year. This law has been
instrumental in helping stave off the careless extinctions
being wreaked by the trade in exotic cage birds. A series
of landmark books by AWI Wildlife Consultant Greta
Nilsson, including The Bird Business, were instrumental in
getting this Act passed.

Wildlife law enforcement, without which these laws and
treaties are useless, faces budget constrictions, a hostile
congressional environment, and, as always, widespread
poaching and smuggling. The success stories—such as the
US Fish and Wildlife Service’s Operation Renegade, which
has resulted in dozens of smuggling convictions— empha-
size the ovewhelming need for strong enforcement.

Continuing sponsorship by AWI of the Clark R. Bavin
Award for Outstanding Achievement in Combatting Crimes
Against Wildlife culminated in the ﬁrst time the award was
given to foreign as well as US recipients. US Fish and
Wildlife Service Director Mollie Beattie presented the
awards. The brave individuals who combat crimes against
wildlife work in highly dangerous conditions for little
recognition, which makes these awards all the more well-
deserved and needed.

 




the quarterly

 

 

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to approximately 23,000
individuals and organizations including public libraries, deans of medical and
veterinary schools, animal protective organizations, teachers, scientists and AWI
members. Following are summaries of some of the articles not mentioned in the

main body of this Annual Report.

summer 1994, volume 43 number 3

 

0 In the ﬁrst civil court case ever against a random source animal dealer,
a pet owner, Don Johnson, sued Don and J udee Peters for deception and
fraud. The dealers obtained Johnson’s dog by posing as dog lovers seeking
a companion, then sold the dog to the University of Washington, where she
was killed in a lung injury experiment. A lawyer for the Progressive
Animal Welfare Society (PAWS) argued and won the case. The Peters
family was ﬁned $8,000.

fall 1994, volume 43 number 4

 

' Operation Renegade, a US crackdown on exotic bird smuggling, resulted
in a 15-charge indictment against Tony Silva and his conspirators for
allegedly smuggling 186 hyacinth macaws.

0 A group of American farmers Visited Sweden to learn about the humane
hog-farming techniques practiced there, which are based on the natural
behavior of pigs.

winter 1995, volume 44 number 1

 

° The American Institute of Philanthropy gave AWI the highest rating of
any animal protection group listed in its Charity Rating Guide & Watchdog
Report.

' Alaska cancelled a state—sponsored wolf kill as a result of shocking Video
coverage of four snared wolves, which set off a tide of public outrage.

spring 1995, volume 44 number 2

 

' “Can Whalers ever be trusted?” was the question asked in a brief overview
of the deceit, cruelty and recklessness of the whaling industry. The
Environmental Investigation Agency compiled a list of whaling’s offenses
since 1942, a dizzying history of lies, dodges, and outright lawlessness.

’ The respected British newspaper The Independent ran, on its front page,
an article attacking the steel jaw leghold trap and North American
trappers’ support for its continued use. The article, reprinted in the Spring
Quarterly, quoted Charles Darwin’s criticism of the traps’ “fearful cruelty”
and the “acute agony” they cause.

11

 

 




12

speeches made and meetings attended
by awi representatives

 

 

Congressional Friends of Animals Brieﬁng on Alternatives to Animal Testing, July 20,
1994, Washington, DC.

Meeting on the steel jaw leghold trap with representative of the European Parliament’s
Intergroup for Animal Welfare, July 22, 1994, Washington, DC.

Meeting with Acting Assistant Secretary Patricia Jensen, Marketing and Inspection
Programs, US Department of Agriculture, July 22, 1994, Washington, DC.

Meeting of strategy group on the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species (CITES), August 3, 1994, Washington, DC.

Speech by Adam Roberts on GATT and animal protection issues to staff of People for
the Ethical Treatment of Animals, September 7, 1994, Rockville, MD.

Preparatory meeting for CITES conference, September 16, 1994.

International strategy meeting on trapping , September 17 and 18, 1994, London, England.

US Technical Advisory Group meeting on trap standards, September 25, 1994, Denver, CO.

Observation by Cathy Liss of testing less painful alternatives to leghold traps by USDA
and trap inventors, October 1-3, 1994, Logan, UT.

Annual American Association for Laboratory Animal Science Conference, October 15-
20, 1994, Pittsburgh, PA.

Meeting of Working Group 4 of the International Organization for Standardization’s
Technical Committee on trap standards, October 25-27, 1994, Utrecht, Holland.
Meeting at USDA to discuss “Research Preceptor Program” for Veterinary Medical

Ofﬁcers, October 26, 1994, Hyattsville, MD.

United States Animal Health Association, November 3, 1994, Grand Rapids, MI. Speech
by Adam Roberts on animal welfare issues.

Annual conference of the American Veterinary Medical Association, November 4-5,
1994, Chicago, IL.

Ninth Conference of the Parties to CITES, November 7 —18, 1994, Ft. Lauderdale, FL.

USDA meeting of experts testing alternatives to the steel jaw leghold trap. December
5-7, 1994, Logan, UT.

Appeal hearing before the Executive Standards Council of the American National
Standards Institute regarding improper conduct of the US Technical Advisory Group
on trap standards, December 9, 1994, Washington, DC.

International Whaling Commission (IWC) Interagency meeting, December 9, 1994,
Washington, DC.

Meeting with Acting ASSistant Secretary Patricia Jensen, Marketing and Inspection
Programs, USDA regarding Animal Welfare Act enforcement, January 4, 1995,
Washington, DC.

IWC Intersessional Meeting on Supervision and Control, January 8-13, 1995, Reine,
Lofoten Islands, Norway.

Meeting with former Indiana Congressman and Director of the Citizens Trade
Campaign, Jim J ontz, to discuss issues related to animal protection and free trade,
January 31, 1995, Washington, DC.

Strategy meeting and discussion of CITES law enforcement and the study of the
effectiveness of the Convention, February 22, 1995, Washington, DC.

Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research Annual Conference, March 13 and 14,
1995, San Diego, CA.

Strategy meeting on the removal of Pelly Amendment trade sanctions against Taiwan,
March 22, 1995, Washington, DC.

 




Rally against factory farms with the Campaign for Family Farms and the Environment
(CFFE), April 1, 1995, Lincoln Township, Missouri.

Meeting with Fish and Wildlife Service personnel, April 6, 1995, Washington, DC.

Summit on the Steel Jaw Leghold Trap co—sponsored by AWI and the Humane
Society of the United States, April 6, 1995, Washington, DC.

Jane Goodall Award ceremony, April 13, 1995, National Geographic, Washington DC.

Meeting with Bob Streeter, US Fish and Wildlife Service, ' April 20, 1995,
Washington, DC.

US Technical Advisory Group on Trap Standards meeting, April 23-25, Arlington, VA.

CFFE march against factory farms (“Journey for Justice”), April 24-26, 1995, Lincoln
Township, Missouri to Ames, Iowa.

National Association for Biomedical Research conference, May 1, 1995, Washington,
DC. Speech by Cathy Liss on use of random source dog and cat dealers.

Strategy meeting of non-governmental organizations on the International Whaling
Commission, May 1, 1995, Washington, DC.

Meeting with National Security Council on Pelly Amendment sanctions against
Taiwan, May 1, 1995, Washington, DC.

Demonstration outside the US Trade Representative’s ofﬁce, May 2, 1995,
Washington, DC.

Observation of Alaskan Inuit whale hunt, May 2-5, 1995, Barrow, Alaska.

AWI reception for Birute Galdikas to save orangutans, May 20, 1995, Washington,
DC.

Annual meeting of the International Whaling Commission, May 29-June 6, Puerta
Vallarta, Mexico.

USDA-APHIS Animal Damage Control’s Management Team, June 7, 1995,
Riverdale, MD. Presentation by Cathy Liss.

Meeting with Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman, June 12, 1995.

US State Department Foriegn Service Ofﬁcer Training Course, Seminar on Political,
Scientiﬁc and NGO Aspects of Minke Whaling, June 20, 1995, Arlington, VA.

Meeting with State Department personnel on US Trade Representative position on
steel jaw leghold traps, June 21, 1995, Washington, DC.

National Alliance for Animals Conference, speech by Adam Roberts on bear protection
and by Cathy Liss on steel jaw leghold traps, June 23, 1995, Chantilly, VA.

Strategy of the Bear Working Group of the Species Survival Network, co-chaired by
AWI, June 29, 1995, Washington, DC.

Discussions with US Trade Representative’s Ofﬁce regarding EU Regulation 3254/
91, August 16, 1994 and February 3 and February 24, 1995.

Meetings with Mollie Beattie, Director of the US Fish and Wildlife Service, July 25,
September 14, and September 2’7, 1994, Washington, DC.

Regular Meetings of the Monitor Consortium, Washington, DC.

Regular meetings of Citizens for Sensible Safeguards concerning regulatory reform,
Washington, DC.

Regular meetings of the Farm Animal Welfare Coalition, Washington, DC.

Bi—weekly meetings of the Endangered Species Coalition, Washington, DC.

Bi-monthly meetings of the Species Survival Network/ CITES Strategy Group,
Washington, DC.

Regular meetings of the Citizens Trade Campaign, Washington, DC.

Monitored congressional hearings on endangered species, wild birds, Department of
the Interior appropriations for wildlife law enforcement, and the World Trade
Organization.

I—l

sBuneem 23 seqoeeds co

 

 




14

statement of support, revenue, expenses
and changes in fund balances

 

 

year ended june 30,1994 with comparative
totals for the year ended june 30, 1993

1995

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1994
support and revenue unrestricted restricted total total
contributions: ‘

Save the Whales campaign 8 - 8 1,385 8 1,385 $ 206,993

other contributions 435,439 5,000 440,439 165,578

foundations and trusts 81,905 8,000 89,905 109,466

legacies and bequests 33,031 - 33,031 125,767
memberships 13,112 - 13,112 21,493
sales of publications

and reprints 759 79 838 3,042

dividend income 12,559 - 12,559 6,767
interest income 27,950 - 27,950 31,450
gain on sale of securities - — - 20,664
refund of advertising costs - 18,000 18,000 -
other income 1,325 — 1,325 938
total support and revenue 606,080 32,464 638,544 692,158
expenses
program services 426,833 78,004 504,837 604,578
management and general 92,124 4,427 96,551 88,434
fundraising 14,895 1,256 16,151 18,322
total expenses 533,852 83,687 617,539 711,334
excess (deficiency) of

support and revenue

over expenses 72,228 (51,223) 21,005 (19,176)
other changes in fund balances
transfer to fund restricted

deficiency (51,223) 51,223 - -

net changes 21,005 - 21,005 (19,176)
fund balances,

beginning of year 544,821 — 544,821 563,997
fund balances, end of year 8 565,826 8 - 8 565,826 $ 544,821

 

 




3 statement of expenses

 

program services

 

 

 

 

 

totals
~ management
e dglltglgﬁ) n 831:6 total , & general fundraising 1994 1995
& projects Whales
salaries $136,545 $18,520 $155,065 $49,175 S 9,692 $198,079 $213,932
payroll taxes and .

employment insurance 12,981 1,575 14,556 5,816 874 20,320 21,246
medical insurance 15,211 - 15,211 2,852 951 25,475 19,014
advertising — 10,375 10,375 - 200 141,737 10,575
Animal Welfare Institute

Quarterlies 49,671 2,205 51,876 - 520 51,244 52,396
printing and publications

(except for quarterlies) 18,795 3,174 21,969 2,270 992 18,207 25,231
research, writing and editing 45,671 - 45,671 - - 25,132 45,671
grants for Whales, dolphins, ,

Wild birds and trapping 34,048 13,200 47,248 - - 64,105 47 ,248
conferences, meetings and travel 27,224 10,241 37,465 1,700 35 35,815 39,200
postage, mailing and addressing

costs (except for quarterlies) 24,506 3,580 28,086 2,885 1,570 35,040 32,541
telephone, duplicating and

ofﬁce supplies 22,436 19 . 22,455 14,470 611 26,730 37,536
professional services - - - 14,984 - 7,310 14,984
membership & subscriptions 7,093 2,093 9,186 375 — 7,300 9,561
acquisition of books and

other educational materials 5,027 22 5,049 328 - 3,584 5,377
consultants 38,448 - 38,448 - — 38,176 38,448
Schweitzer medal - - - - - 7,212 —
miscellaneous 60 - 60 991 - 1,521 1,051
total expenses before depreciation 437,716 65,004 502,720 95,846 15,445 706,987 614,011
depreciation of ﬁxtures

& equipment 2,117 - 2,117 705 706 4,347 3,528
total expenses $439,833 $ 65,004 $504,837 S 96,551 S 16,151 $711,334 $617,539

 

 




titute

1118

G)
5-4
CS
‘I-I
III-I
G)
B
—|

anlma

 

 

officers

directors

 

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

§Ia_ff

Mary Ellen Drayer, Editorial Assistant

John Gleiber, Assistant to the Officers

Diane Halverson, Farm Animal
Consultant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Cathy Liss, Executive Director

Lori Morin, Administrative Assistant

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant

Patrick Nolan, Publications Coordinator

Jennifer Pike, Administrative Assistant

Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D.,

Laboratory Animal Consultant

Adam Roberts, Research Associate

Rick Spill, Marine Mammal Research

Analyst

 

p.o. box 3650
washington, dc 20007
email: awi@igc.apc.org

 

 

 

Marjorie Cooke

Jean Wallace Douglas
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Roger L. Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

scientific committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

international committee

Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico

T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece

Ambassador Tabarak Husain -
Bangladesh

Angela King — United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru - Kenya

Godofredo Stutzin - Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan

Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. -
Denmark

Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D. - Russia

 

BEQUESTS TO AWI

 

 

DC, the sum of $

Donations to AWI, a not-for—proﬁt corporation exempt under Internal
Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3), are tax deductible. We welcome any inquiries
you may have. In cases Where you have speciﬁc wishes about the disposition
of your bequest, we suggest you discuss such provisions with your attorney.

To any who would like to help assure the Animal Welfare Institute’s future
through a provision in your will, this general form of bequest is suggested:

- I give, devise and bequeath to the Animal Welfare Institute, located in Washington,
and/or (specifically described property).

 

 

cover: This haunting picture of a curious, intelligent beluga Whale
is available on a striking poster from AWI. Photo by Simone Holm.

 




june 30, 1996

annual report

1y 1, 1995 to

45th

]u

 

 

 

E
T
U
T
I
T
S
N

 

 

 

 

 




 

trapping

n January 1, 1995, all use of leghold traps was banned in the
European Union (EU), as mandated by EU Regulation 3254/
91. This is a major landmark in the ﬁght against the most commonly
used and cruelest of all devices used to capture animals for the fur
trade and predator control.

 

 

However, a ﬁerce
ﬁght is now raging
over the section of the
law that imposes a
. fur import ban on
' , ,. nations still using

‘ inhumane traps. Last

November, the
Commission (the EU
bureaucracy) issued
1 letters stating that
.. ' _ _ they would enforce the

'. 7? law by refusing

~ . - ~ imports from nations
I prohibited leghold

  
   

 

 

 

 

,. , .. traps or adopted
Exposed bones on the foot of a raccoon caught in “internatio na 11y
a leghold trap agreed humane

 

trapping standards.”
But at the last moment, in December 1995, The Commission took
the unprecedented step of refusing to implement and enforce this
ban. The Commission claimed it had not done the necessary work,
although it had, in fact, already heard from those nations that
comply with the Regulation.

The real reason for the abrupt abandonment of this important law
was the threat by Canada, supported by the United States, to
challenge the EU’s Regulation under the newly created World Trade
Organization (WTO), successor to the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT). European Parliament Environment Chair Ken
Collins did not mince words in his speech on the Floor-of the
Parliament. He blasted the European Commission’s proposal to
delay implementation and sharply criticized the Commission’s Vice
President Sir Leon Brittan, stating:

The fact of the matter is that people have been conspiring to ensure that
the will of this Parliament, expressed way back in 1991 and indeed before
that, is not implemented. What do we ﬁnd is the excuse? The excuse is
that, ﬁrst of all, there are no implementing regulations and, secondly, that




II- ﬂ

\l—P- —‘\V kl

\l \U ‘ P- F. kl— UJ V‘1 \V

the WTO would not like it. Well, let me deal with the regulation ﬁrst.

Are we seriously suggesting that when the C Ouncil decides on a regulation
the Commission has the-power to decide on its own whether or not that
regulation will be implemented? Are ' we seriously suggesting that the
Commission—non-elected, with no democratic authority at all—had the
possibility of overruling both the Council and Parliament because it has
decided not to table any implementing measures? What a farce that would
be, would it not? Yet that is what is being proposed.

Secondly, if the WTO would not like it, who was it that negotiated the
GATT regulations on behalf of the European Union? Who was it that
negotiated on behalf of the whole European Community? The answer is
Mephistopheles himself, the man who is not here tonight. Sir Leon Brittan
was our guy in GATT. He negotiated it. The question is, if this regulation
is not compatible with the WTO, why were we not alerted to this long ago?...

The answer is because he has achieved precisely what he wanted to
achieve, that is, the supremacy of free trade over any consideration of animal
welfare, the supremacy of free trade over any consideration of the
environment.

In the U.K., the House of Lords appointed a Commission to look
into the EU’s failure to enforce its legislation. AWI submitted
testimony for the Lords’ Report, which quoted Russia’s 1995 law
stating that “Wildlife users must:... practice humane methods when
using wildlife... Use of foot-gripping traps is prohibited exclusive of
cases envisaged by laws and other regulatory legal acts of the
subjects of the Russian Federation.”

We reported on the working group set up between the EU, the US,
Canada and Russia to create an agreement on humane trapping
standards. “AWI nominated three excellent candidates with
impeccable scientiﬁc credentials and background in animal well-
being, but they were rejected. As noted earlier, there is no expert
on animal welfare from the United States, where the largest number
of animals suffer in steel jaw leghold traps.”

AWI’s testimony continued, “It is important to note that whenever
this cruelest of all capture devices is not banned, endangered species,
as well as dogs and other household pets, livestock and all sorts of other
wild creatures, be they mammals or birds, are at risk of being caught.
Steel jaw leghold traps are hidden under dirt or leaves. They are
completely non-selective. Pressure on the pan causes the jaws to spring
up, slamming together with bone-breaking force on the victim....

“Charles Darwin called for a ban on these traps in 1863 because
of the ‘acute agony’ they caused. He condemned them for ‘so fearful
an amount of cruelty.’ It is high time that his plea to ban this archaic
device should be fully honored. I entreat you to do everything in your
power to see that it is.

Work on AWI’ s new publication, Alternative Traps, was put into
high gear, and our 24- foot tall inﬂatable 1n the form of a giant beaver
was refurbished in preparation for her tour of Europe in behalf of
trapped animalsin the United States and Canada.

Sugdden

00

 




 

4

whales and whaling

n elder of the Makah Indian Tribe from Washington state,

Alberta Thompson, ﬂew to Aberdeen to attend the 1996
meeting of the International kWhaling Commission. She was
accompanied by tribal member Dottie Chamblin. They courageously
opposed the U.S. government and the minority of their tribe who
were trying to start whaling activities again by the Makahs, despite
the fact that the tribe has not hunted a whale for the last 70 years.
Reportedly, the small group of pro-Whalers were planning to foster
the whale hunt in hopes of obtaining as much as $2.5 million
annually by selling the meat to Japan. The elders refused to go along.
So did the U.S. House of Representatives who passed a resolution
urging that the gray whale “should be protected and that the position
taken by the 'U.S. delegation at the Whaling Conference is strongly
opposed by the Committee on Resources.” The U.S. ﬁnally withdrew
the proposal for killing ﬁve gray whales annually by the Makah Tribe,
but stated that it will try again at next year’s IWC meeting.

The IWC’s Scientiﬁc Committee, under U.S. chairmanship, accepted
Norway’s estimate of the numbers of minke whales in the North
Atlantic where Norway continues to kill more and more of these small
whales in deﬁance of IWC rules. The United States’ role as the
leading protector of whales for the past two decades seems to have
evaporated.

Nevertheless, there was useful progress at this IWC meeting.
Recognition of the increasing environmental threats to whales and
dolphins resulted in establishment of a permanent Standing
Committee Within the IWC Scientiﬁc Committee to continue
examination of these threats. Further, a resolution was unanimously
adopted to study the plight of small cetaceans, creatures who have
inspired seemingly irreconcilable conﬂicts among IWC nations in
the past.

albert schweitzer medal

On June 27, Henry Spira, an activist’s activist whose
extraordinary talents have been focused on the plight of
animals in laboratories and factory farms, was awarded AWI’s
Albert Schweitzer Medal by Christine Stevens, the Institute’s President.
She praised his originality and perseverance, the unparalleled cost-
effectiveness of his campaigns, and his velvet-gloved approach to even
his most aggressive attacks on animal abusers.

In presenting the award, AWI’s President described several
instances of Henry Spira’s successful achievements for animals. She
said that the Draize test, invented decades ago and slavishly
followed at the behest of the United States Food and Drug

 

 

 

 




Administration, had been the
object of widespread objections
for years, but not until Henry
entered the scene did the FDA
and the manufacturers of
cosmetics and household products
budge an inch. She continued:

I well remember testifying at the r‘
big FDA hearing before a panel of
physicians and scientists and
begging them to use anesthesia if
they insisted on continuing these
extremely painful tests. The Draize
test calls for the test substance to be
dripped into the eyes of conscious -
rabbits held in boxes Wlth only The Schweitzer Medal
their heads protruding. We
distributed color photographs of the results, and all the doctors agreed with
my testimony calling for the administration of pain killers when harmful
substances were applied to the rabbits’ eyes. I can see them now, nodding
their heads gravely and promising to accede to my request. I foolishly
believed them. For months, I would regularly call the FDA to ask what had
been done about issuing regulations to prevent the pain which they
acknowledged was needless. But nothing at all ever happened! The trouble
was, it turned out, that rather than making a polite, rational, public request,
we should have attacked—dressed in rabbit suits!

That’s what Henry Spira did outside Revlon’s headquarters on Fifth
Avenue. ‘Revlon blinds rabbits for beauty’s sake,’ cried a full-page New York
Times ad. And Henry’s cohorts, clad in full rabbit costumes, carried signs with
the same legend. That is what brought Revlon to the table with a check for
$750,000 to start an alternative program. Avon soon joined the bandwagon. The
Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing was founded, and
use of the Draize test dropped dramatically throughout the industry.

 

Henry Spira responded with the encouraging statistic that there
has been a 50% reduction in the number of laboratory animals used.
“There’s a whole new scientiﬁc discipline of in vitro, non-animal
toxicology which has entered the scientiﬁc mainstream,” he said.
But he countered those cheering ﬁgures by reminding the audience:
“With regard to the 95% of animal suffering, things keep getting
worse...as regards the eight billion farm animals, their numbers are
massively increasing, because the US. is now exporting the products
of factory farming to foreign lands. In the 19605, two billion farm
animals were slaughtered every year. Now we’re slaughtering eight
billion. And in earlier years, their conﬁnement was less intensive
than it is now.”

Senator Charles Percy, long-established as a friend of animals
during his years in the US. Senate, gave the Albert Schweitzer
Reverence for Life address.

 

 

[upom Jaziyamqos cn

 

 




 

endangered species

ffective wildlife law enforcement by the US. Fish and

Wildlife Service, highlighted by its undercover “Operation
Renegade,” continued to be the most telling protection of endangered
species during the year, but opponents of the US. Endangered
Species Act did their utmost to destroy it, despite the pleas of
religious coalitions and conservation organizations in its behalf.
Rabbi David Saperstein, Director of The Religious Action Center of
Reform Judaism, represented a broad, interfaith coalition of
churches with membership of more than 100 million at hearings in
the US. House of Representatives. “The Endangered Species Act
has served as an Ark,” he said, “protecting and nurturing the
remnants of God’s creatures until they, like the bald eagle, can soar
on their own-once again. If this Ark needs repairs, then by all means
patch it. But we cannot afford, spiritually or economically, to sink
it.” .

The US. Supreme Court came to the rescue of the Endangered
Species Act in its 6 to 3 decision upholding the Act’s deﬁnition of
prohibited “harm.” Loggers and other destroyers of the habitat
necessary for endangered species must refrain from harmful actions.
The decision is known as “The Sweet Home Ruling.” It is vitally
important for humane treatment of animals because of the cruelty
of depriving wild creatures of their homes. Logging in our country
and throughout the world is one of the most destructive human
activities, calling urgently for restriction.

Capturing wild mammals and birds for commercial trade and
selling them to laboratories, zoos and pet stores constitutes another
massive threat to their survival. Matthew Block, the notorious
Miami wildlife dealer who was the third largest US. primate dealer,
was finally imprisoned for‘ his role in the smuggling of six baby
orangutans (“The Bangkok SiX”) conﬁscated in the Bangkok Airport
on February 20, 1990. News of an impending plea-bargain in 1992
motivated conservation groups around the world to send letters to
Judge James Kehoe, who courageously rejected the plea-bargain as
“contrary to the public interest.” Later, Block pled guilty to a
“superseding indictment” of felony conspiracy, eventually resulting
in his felony conviction and a sentence of 13 months in jail. Because
of his conviction, he lost his license to import primates to the United
States. Even so, on leaving jail, he will be free to deal legally
between countries outside the US. The case, which was publicized
worldwide, involved trafﬁcking” in one of the rarest endangered
species (fewer than 32,000 orangutans remain in the world) and also
one of the most beloved. Trafﬁckers from eight nations were
involved in this shameful affair, discovered only because the
orangutan infants’ cries, sounding like human babies, emanated

 

 




from their cofﬁn-like crates labeled “Birds.”

To ﬁll the need for information on endangered species while the
fourth edition of AWI’s Endangered Species Handbook is being
completed, a document was issued by AWI entitled “America Leads
the World in Preventing Extinction of Species.” The full-color cover
shows a bald eagle on the front and a mother grizzly bear with cubs
on the back. The headings tell the story; Endangered Species Act
an Economic and Medical Asset; Non-consumptive Use of Wildlife—
A Fiscal Boon; Agriculture Dependent on Wild Plants & Animals;
Life-saving Medicine from Rare Species; and Their Loss is Our Loss.
The report ends with a graph showing the dramatic increase in bird
extinctions in recent years, an ill omen for our planet. “Extinctions,
past and impending,” warns the AWI report, “are warning ﬂags,
signalling an emergency that threatens all life on earth.”

laboratory animals

 

 

he US. Department of Agriculture has stepped up its

enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act. As AWI works to
complete its soon-to-be-published Dealers in Misery: The Commercial
Animal Trade, 1952—1996, we receive news that USDA has
prosecuted one big dealer after another. Enforcement of the Animal
Welfare Act by USDA has greatly reduced needless suffering for
laboratory animals.

However, the minimum humane standards of the federal Animal
Welfare Act currently omit coverage of the millions of birds, mice
and rats used in experiments and tests. In 1992, Valerie Stanley of
the Animal Legal Defense Fund won a ruling by Judge Charles
Richey that mice, rats and
birds be included under
the federal Animal Welfare
Act requirements, but
the National Association
for Biomedical Research
(NABR) and its cohorts
appealed the ruling, and
the Court of Appeals
vacated it. These millions
of warm-blooded species
are, therefore, still
unprotected by the federal
Animal Welfare Act.

Thus, it is important to
exert pressure on the '
National Institutes of Laboratory Animal Consultant Dr. Viktor Reinhardt

Health Wthh provides at AWI’s booth exhibit at the 1995 American Association
’ for Laboratory Animal Science annual meeting

 

massive funding for much

 

 

 

paxaBuupua *1

satoeds

 

 




 

 

laboratory animals 00

 

of the experimentation on these'animals. Since 1949, recommendations
informally known as the NIH Guide have been issued to the
scientiﬁc community. The most recent Guide has grown from a mere
pamphlet to a 125-page book issued by the National Academy of
Sciences Press. AWI has regularly testiﬁed at hearings held every
few years to update this document, but our carefully prepared
recommendations were almost entirely rejected. Only two of AWI’s
thirteen speciﬁc recommendations were adopted in the 1985 revision,
and they had to be made to comply with the federal Animal Welfare
Act.

This time, however, signiﬁcant improvements in the Guide resulted
from AWI’s detailed comments. We made a strong presentation at the
ﬁrst public hearings held October 1995 in the National Academy of
Sciences auditorium. Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, a valued member of AWI’s
Scientiﬁc Committee, presented detailed comments, as did AWI’s
President and Executive Director. Valerie Stanley spoke for the Animal
Legal Defense Fund (ALDF), calling for increased attention to the use
of alternatives to laboratory animals and coordination with the Animal
Welfare Information Center and other scientiﬁc sources of information
on such alternatives.

At subsequent hearings held in St. Louis, Dr. Viktor Reinhardt,
AWI’s Laboratory Animal Consultant, ,made a comprehensive
evaluation. His long experience in improving conditions for
hundreds of monkeys in the Wisconsin Regional Primate Center
made his comments especially authoritative. V

AWI presented a booth exhibit at the annual meeting of the
American Association for Laboratory Animal Science in Baltimore,
Maryland. Hundreds of copies of Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory .Animals, listings of publications for members of
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees, and Beyond the
Laboratory Door were distributed to attendees who listened attentively
to the speech by 'Dr. Viktor Reinhardt.

farm animals

In 1995, AWI joined the Campaign for Family Farms and the
Environment (CFFE) , a new, action-oriented effort to stop government
policies and agribusiness practices that promote ‘ cruel, factory-
intensive farming. Other members of the CFFE include grassroots
organizations opposed to the industrialization of pig farming and
devoted to humane, sustainable family farm agriculture from North
Carolina, Illinois, Oklahoma, Missouri, Iowa and‘Minnesota. There
are no laws to prevent cruel factory farm practices, and so the CFFE
is an especially important effort, exposing the devastating
consequences of factory farms and pressuring corporations, ﬁnancial
institutions, government agencies, universities and trade associations
that promote factory farming. The CFFE has provided a unique

 

 




I
(

 

forum in which to
expose the cruelty of
factory farms to a broad
range of people and has
enabled AWI to
illustrate to America’s
rural communities that
the degradation of the
environment and of the
quality of human life
caused by industrialized
pig farming originates
with a failure to protect
the welfare of animals.
Highlights of the
campaign during the
year included:

0 Organizing a
grassroots march at the A saw an a gestation stall bttes at the bars.

1995 Farm Aid concert Factory farm pigs live “their whole lives in a
in Louisville Kentucky cruel and sunless world,” as described in the
’ movie Babe. Photo by Diane Halverson.

 

 

to bring attention to
the factory farm issue. Farm Aid invited a representative of the
CFFE to participate in a panel with Agriculture Secretary
Glickman in order to express the CFFE opposition to factory hog
farms. The CFFE reminded Secretary Glickman of his promise to
the CFFE to visit. Lincoln Township, Missouri, site of Premium
Standard Farms, Inc. (PSF), the nation’s 4th largest pig factory, to
listen to citizen concerns about the welfare of animals at PSF, the
environmental degradation and the destruction of the fabric of rural
life in Lincoln Township caused by PSF. Glickman kept his promise,
appearing at a CFFE-organized rural forum in Lincoln Township
in November 1995.

0 For the first time in Farm Aid’s 10-year history, Farm Aid
President Willie Nelson’s personal membership and fundraising
letter speaks of the cruelty to animals on factory farms. His appeals
include photos of sows locked in crates on a factory farm and of
humanely-kept sows on a family farm, shot by AWI’s Farm Animal
Welfare Consultant, Diane Halverson.

0 Holding rallies in Midwest state capitals to challenge officials
who are supporting corporate hog factories, and to hold factory
owners accountable for the problems they are creating.

0 Pressing USDA to crack down on violations of federal law and
eliminate other federal policies which encourage the rapid
industrialization of pig farming; to stop subsidizing research that
beneﬁts factory farms and to stop guaranteeing loans to Farm Credit
Services that ﬁnance factory hog farms instead of family farms that
raiSe pigs humanely. V

 

8181111119 111.18} ‘9

 

 

 




 

 

1" the quarterly

he AWI Quarterly is distributed to approximately 23,000

individuals and organizations including public libraries, deans
of medical and veterinary medical schools, animal protective
organizations, teachers, scientists and AWI members. Following are
summaries of this year’s issues:

The Summer 1995 AWI Quarterly (Volume 44, Number 3) featured
the ongoing struggle for full implementation of the European
Union’s Regulation 3254/91 against the leghold trap. The cover
picture showed a sleek, aristocratic looking river otter in hislnatural
habitat.

Inside, Alan Clark’s diary
entry described, in masterly
prose, the defeat of his fur-
labelling proposal which would
have given the public the
opportunity to reject leghold-
trapped furs. But Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher
forced him to withdraw it

An article about inventor Ed
Kania’s instant-killing traps
concluded with his hope that
the European Union will stand
fast. “This will force us to
change, and it’s high time we
did.” An ominous shadow
depicting the latest in cruel
leghold traps was spread over
the page of the Quarterly’s
centerfold.

The Fall 1995 AWI Quarterly (Volume 44, Number 4) featured the
terrible mistreatment of bears in Chinese bear gall farms and the
poaching and smuggling of bears worldwide for their gallbladders.
Two entrancing Asiatic Black bear cubs perched in a tree in the
Russian Far East appeared on the cover.

Good news included formation of the Russian Marine Mammal
Council by Dr. Alexey Yablokov; EIA’s “Animal Detectives” television
series selected to receive a Genesis Award; and the Nobel Prize
presented to three scientists for describing the chemical process that
depletes the earth’s ozone layer, including CFCs.

Progress in law enforcement included reports of indictments and
imprisonments for criminal cruelty and smuggling.

The Winter 1996 AWI Quarterly (Volume 45, Number 1) featured
the great apes and dolphins, with Koko photographing herself on the
cover, and captive chimpanzees brushing their teeth and using

 

 

 

 

 




mirrors. The chimpanzees are
the object of an intense
ownership battle. Laboratory
Director and whistle blower
Dr. Moor-Jankowski, ﬁred by
New York University, lost
custody of the chimpanzees.
Toxicologist Fred Coulston
wants them, though USDA
has found many violations of
the Animal Welfare Act by his
foundation.

Norway’s whale meat
smuggling and Italy’s driftnet
killing of dolphins violate
international treaties, and the
World Trade Organization
threatens dolphins under U.S.
“Dolphin-Safe” protection. “. ..
the Clinton Administration is . - v - - ~-
pushing for an outright usurpation of th U.S. domestic standar
said attorney Lori Wallach.

The Spring/Summer 1996 AWI Quarterly (Volume 45, Numbers 2 5
& 3) featured piglets playing in deep straw litter used by Swedish
farmers who successfully employ communal housing in raising pigs
for a good proﬁt. It is human-friendly, cost-efﬁcient and
environmentally benign. In contraSt, a huge Missouri factory farm
went bankrupt, defaulting on $325 million of junk bonds.

Cruel transport of Canadian livestock was revealed in a trucker’s
direct testimony, and
controversy on Canadian
trucking was aired in
confrontational correspondence.

Necessary elephant protection
is challenged by Zimbabwe and
its CAMPFIRE organization
that claims to help African
communities profit from
sustainable use. USAID
supports it with $5 million every
year, but Zimbabwe’s leading
newspaper reports that the
trophy hunting of elephants and
other animals that brought
$600,000 to one CAMPFIRE
district has been skimmed off,
leaving nothing for distribution
to the community.

 

leaannb am 5

 

 

 

 

p .- .. ‘1
l
l

ds,”

 

 




12 . speeches made and meetings attended
by awi representatives

 

Meeting with Acting Assistant Secretary of Agriculture to discuss Animal Welfare Act
and Animal Damage Control activities, July 7, 1995.

American National Standardization Institute (ANSI) hearing on AWI and Humane
Society of the United States’ appeal of ANSI decision of January 3, 1995, regarding
improprieties of the US. Technical Advisory Group on Humane Trapping Standards,
New York, NY, July 11, 1995.

Intergroup for Animal Welfare, presentation by Cathy Liss on steel jaw leghold traps
and less cruel alternatives, Strasbourg, France, July 13, 1995.

Meeting to discuss adoption of a pain scale for reporting use of animals in experimentation
to the US. Department of Agriculture; July 20, 1995.

Congressional hearing on appropriations for the US. Fish and Wildlife Law Enforcement
Division, August 2, 1995.

USDA Animal Damage Control Conference, “Repellents in Wildlife Management”;
speech by Cathy Liss; Ft. Collins, CO, August 8-10, 1995.

Campaign for Family Farms and the Environment (CFFE) press conference outside the
headquarters of the National Pork Producers Council, Des Moines, IA. Meetings with
representatives of the proposed USDA factory farm swine research center. Speech by
Diane Halverson, August 16, 1995.

CFFE strategy meeting, Des Moines, IA. August 16-17, 1995.

Meeting with Acting Director of the US. Fish and Wildlife Service, September 16, 1995.

Hearing on the Wild Bird Conservation Act, September 18, 1995.

Hearing on H.R. 2275, a bill to severely weaken the Endangered Species Act, before the
House Resources Committee, September 20, 1995.

Meeting with Assistant Director, Refuges and Wildlife, US. Fish and Wildlife Service,
to discuss law enforcement, bear protection, and CITES, September 21, 1995.

Negotiated rule—making by USDA on the Marine Mammal Protection Act, September
25-26, 1995.

10th Anniversary Farm Aid Concert and Agricultural Forum. Louisville, KY. Diane
Halverson spoke, October 1, 1995.

Meeting of US. Technical Advisory Group on Humane Trapping Standards, September
28-29, 1995; meeting of TC/191 to International Organization for Standardization
(ISO), Denver, CO, September 30-October 2, 1995.

Meetings to protest cetacean captivity, including Gadfly II and HSUS Anti-Captivity
Symposium; Rick Spill spoke; Seattle, WA, October 3-8, 1995.

Meeting with US. Department of Agriculture Deputy Assistant Secretary on Animal
Welfare Act enforcement, October 4, 1995.

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science Conference, Baltimore, MD; Dr.
Viktor Reinhardt, AWI’s Laboratory Animal Consultant, spoke; October 16-19, 1995.
AWI exhibit.

AWI exhibit at the National Association of Biology Teachers annual meeting, Phoenix,
AZ, October 26-28, 1995.

Meeting of the US. Animal Health Association Animal Welfare Committee, Reno, NV,
October 31, 1995.

Meetings at the Office of the US. Trade Representative to discuss issues related to trade
and the environment and European Union Regulation 3254/91, November 2, 1995;
March 6, 1996; May 23, 1996.

Marineland Campaign meetings, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, November 4, 1995 and April
13, ”1996; Guelph, Ontario, Canada, February 24, 1996.

Global Teach-In on Free Trade and its implications for workers, human health and
safety, the environment, and animal protection, New York, NY, November 10-11,
1995.

Secretary of Agriculture visit to Lincoln Township, MO. Diane Halverson spoke on a
panel addressing the Secretary. November 11, 1996.

Makah Gray, Whale Campaign meeting, Seattle, WA, NOVember 15, 1995.

 




Meeting with AWI International Committee member for Russia, Dr. Alexey Yablokov,
on whales and whaling, December 7, 1995.

Interagency meetings on the International Whaling Commission with the US. Commissioner,
December 13, 1995; March 21 and May 16, 1996. -

AWI Board meeting February 1, March 13 and May 8, 1996.

Meeting with USDA Research Preceptors, Beltsville, MD, February 6, 1996.

Congressional staff brieﬁng on dolphin protection, February 7, 1996.

Meetings of groups working to preserve EU Regulation 3254/91, February 8 and 22,1996.

Meeting with U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service Acting Director to discuss Law Enforcement
Division leadership, February 9,1996.

Cetacean anti-captivity speech by Rick Spill, Guelph, Ontario, February 10, 1996.

Meeting with Assistant Secretary of Agriculture to discuss Animal Welfare Act
enforcement, February 13, 1996.

Rally against factory pig farms, St. Paul, MN. Diane Halverson spoke. February 28, 1996.

Presentation on trapping by Cathy Liss to Members of the European Parliament, IFAW’s
SEALWATCH, Prince Edward Island, Canada, March 7, 1996.

Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research meeting, Boston, MA, March 14-15, 1996.

Committee on Resources Oversight Hearing on Implementation and Administration of
the Endangered Species Act of 1973, March 20, 1996.

USDA hearing of the Advisory Committee on Agricultural Concentration in St. Louis,
MO. Diane Halverson presented testimony. March 25, 1996.

International Wildlife Law seminar: “Biodiversity in the 21st Century,” March 26, 1996.

Bi-annual Conference of the International Primate Protection League; speech by Cathy
Liss 0n the use of primates in research; Somerville, SC, March 29-31, 1996.

APHIS Negotiated Rule-Making Panel to develop recommendations for regulating care
and maintenance of captive marine mammals, Hyattsville, MD, April 1-3, 1996.

CFFE strategy meeting, Des Moines, IA, April 25-26, 1996.

USDA Public Meeting on dogs and cats in commercial pet trade, April 10-11, 1996.

Meeting with Chief of the CITES Management Authority of the US. Fish and Wildlife
Service to discuss the tenth CITES Conference in Zimbabwe, April 19, 1996.

Booth on random source dog and cat dealers, and the steel jaw leghold trap, at America’s
Family Pet Expo, Los Angeles, CA, April 25-29, 1996,

Reception and meeting with the Russian Marine Mammal Council; speech by Dr. Alexey
Yablokov, AWI International Committee Member representing Russia; April 26, 1996.

Senate hearing on Stevens-Breaux bill, to reverse Dolphin-Safe requirements, April 30,
1996.

Globalization Conference, Lisner Auditorium, May 10—11, 1996.

Free Corky Project'meeting, San Diego, CA, May 11-12, 1996.

Animal Damage Control Advisory Committee meeting, Denver, CO, May 22,1996.

Meeting ofCanadian General Standards Board Committee on Restraining Traps, Quebec
City, Canada, May 25-26,1996.

IWC Annual Meeting, Aberdeen, Scotland, June 16-29, 1996.

Testimony on steel jaw leghold trap and EU Regulation 3254/91 before Trade and
Environment Policy Advisory Committee; presentations by Cathy Liss, John Gleiber,
Adam Roberts, Marjorie Cooke and Lynne Hutchison; June 6, 1996.

World Bank conference on African wildlife and local people, June 18, 1996.

National Academy of Sciences hearing on long-term care of chimpanzees, Christine
Stevens testiﬁed, June 19,1996.

House Oversight Hearing on the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act, June 20,1996

CFFE press conference exposing pro— —factory farm policies of USDA and the National
Pork Producers Council, Des Moines, IA, Diane Halverson spoke. June 26-27, 1996.

AWI Albert Schweitzer Medal ceremony and reception for members, June 27, 1996.

Regular meetings of the Species Survival Network and its subcommittees.

Weekly meetings of the Dolphin-Safe/Fair Trade Campaign, working to maintain
dolphin protection and preserve the integrity of the “dolphin-safe” label.

 

Meetings took place in Washington, DC. unless otherwise noted.

saunamu 29 seqoeeds 5

 

 




14

financial statements

 

 

year ended june 30, 1996 with comparative
totals for the year ended june 30, 1995

Statements of activities and changes in net assets

Changes in unrestricted net assets: Year Ended June BL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Revenues: £96 1915

Contributions
- Foundations and trusts S 143,093 3 81,905
- Legacies and bequests 41,862 33,031
- Other 159,480 435,439
Memberships 38,104 13,112
Sale of publications and reprints 1,738 759
Dividend income 10,772 12,559
Interest income 27,465 27,950
Refund of advertising costs - 18,000
Other income 601 1,325
423,115 624,080

Net assets released from restrictions:

Satisfaction of program restrictions:

Save the Whales 50,126 1,464

Campaign for Family Farms and the Environment 45,411 —

Endangered Species Handbook 29,000 8,000

Other - 5,000

124,537 14,464

Total unrestricted revenues and other support 547,652 638,544
Expenses:

Program services 617,349 504,837

Management and general 102,742 96,551

Fundraising 6,081 16,151

Total expenses 726,172 617,539

(Decrease) increase in unrestricted nest assets (178,520) 2lﬂ05
Changes in temporarily restricted net assets:
Grants and contributions 81,446 8 64,464
Net assets released from restrictions (124,537) (14,464)
(Decrease) increase in temporarily restricted net assets (43,091) 50,000
Changes in permanently restricted net assets:

Grants and contributions 100,000 -
(Decrease) increase in net assets (121,611) 71,005
Net assets - beginning of year 615,826 544,821
Net assets - end of year S 494,215 $615,826

A complete financial statement, audited by Rosenberg, Neuwirth & Kuchner,
certified public accountants, P.C., is available upon request from AWI.




Program Services

Public Save Family
Education the Farm
and Projects Whales Campaign Total

 

Management 1996 1995
and General Fund Raising Totals Totals

 

Salaries $ 158,315 3 30,917 3 - S 189,232 $63,366 3 2,222 $254,820 8 213,932

Payroll taxes and

employment insurance 14,456
Medical insurance 11,795
Advertising 7,904
Animal Welfare Institute

Quarterlies
Printing and publications

(except for Quarterlies) 14,053
Research, writing and editing 63,322
Grants for whales, dolphins,

wild birds and trapping
Conferences, meetings and

travel 25,283
Postage, mailing and addressing

costs (except for Quarterlies) 21,907
Telephone, duplicating and

office supplies 21,999
Professional services -
Membership and subscriptions 10,366
Acquisition of books and other

educational materials 2,805
Consultants 35,332
Schweitzer Medal 1,802
Miscellaneous 51

Total expenses before
depreciation

Depreciation of fixtures and
equipment 1,293

23,179

52,080

464,649

Total expenses 8 465,942

2,682
45,180
8,063
8,705

1,140
5,133
2,874
2,228

157

107,079

S 107,079

13,100
3,904
165

20,137
7,022

44,328

3 44,328

17,138
11,795
53,084
31,242

22,758
63,322

66,320
34,320
24,946
21,999
12,594

2,962
55,469

1,802
7,073

616,056

1,293

S 617,349

6,451
1,896

4,905

2,478
2,140
8,653
11,433
40

111

837
102,310
432

S 102,742

212
126

5,649
432

$ 6,081

23,801
13,817
53,084
31,242

28,254
63,322

66,320
36,798
29,584
30,652
11,433
12,634

3,073
55,469

1,802
7,910

724,015

2,157

8 726,172

21,246
19,014
10,575
52,396

25,231
45,671

47,248

39,200 '

32,541
37,536
14,984

9,561

5,377
38,448

1&5}
614,011

3.528

S 617,539

Statement of functional'e enses

1...:
U1

 




titute

1115

G)
H
N
V4.4
y—q
Q)
3
Fun;

anima

 

 

officers

directors

 

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

£93
Mary Ellen Drayer, Associate Editor
John Gleiber, Assistant to the Officers
Diane Halverson, Farm Animal
Consultant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator
Cathy Liss, Executive Director
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Patrick Nolan, Publications Coordinator
Jennifer Pike, Administrative Assistant
Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D.,
Laboratory Animal Consultant
Adam Roberts, Research Associate
Rick Spill, Marine Mammal Research
Analyst

 

p.o. box 3650
washington, dc 20007

(202) 337—2332
email: awi@animalwelfare.com

 

 

 

Marjorie Cooke

Jean Wallace Douglas
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Roger L. Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

scientific committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

 

international committee

Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. — Mexico

T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. — Greece

Ambassador Tabarak Husain -
Bangladesh

Angela King — United Kingdom

 

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

Godofredo Stutzin , Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo — Japan

Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. —
Denmark

Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D. - Russia

 

' BEQUESTS TO AWI

 

 

sum of :5

V To all who Would like to help-assure the Annual Welfare Institute’sfuture through
a provision in your will, this general form 0f bequest issuggested:

I give, devise and bequeath to the Animal Welfare Institute,alnot—for—proﬁt Corporation
exempt under Internal Revenue Code Section 501 (c)(3), located in Washington, DC, the
' and/or (spea'fically describedproperty).

We welcome any inquiries you may have. In cases where you have speciﬁc wishes
about the disposition of your bequest, we suggest you discuss such provisions
with your attorney.

 

 

COV er: Hold on to your pets—Smokey was stolen from his Minnesota home, sold
by a buncher to a Class B dealer for $12, then sold to a laboratory. He was rescued before
being used in an experiment, but he was extremely ill, and his recovery took many
weeks. See pages 7 & 8 for more information on our efforts to stop dog and cat theft.

 




 

MAL
W E L F A'R E
INS-T'ITUTE

 

 

 

FORTY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT
July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997

 

 




 

 

[n 1951, Dr. Albert Schweitzer gave his permission to
the Animal Welfare Institute to strike a medal in his
honor to be presented for outstanding achievement in
the advancement of animal welfare. In granting his

permission, Dr. Schweitzer wrote, ”I would never have

believed that my philosophy, which incorporates in our
ethics a compassionate attitude toward all creatures,

would be noticed and recognized in my lifetime. ”

 

Cover: a lynx kitten. The lynx is now extinct
in 17 states where it previously existed.

 




 

the animal welfare act’s
30th anniversary

 

 

he inspectors and administrators of the federal Animal

Welfare Act joined with the National Agricultural Library
in a unique celebration of 30 years of animal protective work by
the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). The
participants in the three-day symposium were given name tags
decorated with a photograph of a Dalmatian in recognition of
Pepper, the dog whose loss brought about introduction of the
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act in 1966.

A large pictorial exhibition in the lobby of the National
Agricultural Library greeted visitors to the library for three
months. The signing of the bill, with its chief authors and
sponsors including Congressman W.R. Poage, Senators
Magnuson and Monroney, memorialized Members of the US.
Congress who fought for
effective legislation (note
1966 photo on this page).
AWI was able to provide
many of the photographs
for the NAL exhibit,
including Senators Robert
Dole and Congressman
George Brown, authors of
the Improved Standards
for Laboratory Animals
amendments.

AWI's companion
organization, the Society . . . __ _
f 01' Animal PI'OteCtiVe President Lyndon Iohnson after signing the
Legislation, played the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act in 1966.

leading role in obtaining Standing, f’f’m 1? 5:710}??? JOSEPthi/IS?
the federal Laboratory 11:55:22,311}:22:51.1torrgcarrenOgOX/Izgnuson .
Animal Welfare Act, now ' ' '

 

 

 

 




 

animal welfare act N

 

known as the Animal Welfare Act because the law was
broadened to cover animals in transit, in zoos, circuses, and in
pet shops that sell wild animals. Congress amended and
strengthened the law in 1970, 1976, 1985 and 1990.

USDA chose speakers from among those who had been
most active in achieving this major victory for animal welfare
in the United States. AWI’s President was asked to speak on
”The Historical Motivation for the Federal Animal Welfare
Act.” In thanking the many inspectors and supporting staff
who have prevented massive amounts of animal suffering in
the 30 years since the Act was passed, she noted:

” The Department of Agriculture was wisely selected by the
Congress as the agency to enforce the statute, but it was touch
and go back in 1966 as to whether the National Institutes of
Health might snatchjurisdiction away from you. The biomedical
establishment ... spent much time and money on weakening the
regulations USDA has proposed and, even more importantly,
on trying to undermine your resolve to achieve effective
enforcement and the decent treatment of animals which is its
plain objective.

”How did it all happen? And why did it take so infernally
long for our country to adopt a civilized approach to the
treatment of laboratory animals? Legislation to regulate
experimental use of animals was introduced in Congress in
1880 following the lead of the 1876 British Cruelty to Animals
Act, but the medical establishment crushed it immediately, and
for the next 80 years the animals suffered in silence. No
legislation to protect them was even proposed, though their
numbers grew and grew.”

The huge mortality of animals purchased by scientific
institutions in the 19605—30-40% of monkeys and 40-50% of
dogs and cats — are examples of the needless suffering
undergone by animals before the Act was passed.

Dr. Frank Mulhern, who was charged with overseeing the
administration of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act
immediately after its passage, spoke at the symposium on the
government perspective on regulations.




Dr. Dale Schwindaman, who entered the program in its
early years, moderated the first session which included Dr.
Richard Crawford, who was responsible for receiving some
36,000 comments on USDA’s proposed regulations under the
Improved Standards forLaboratory Animals amendments of
1985. Assistant Secretary of Agriculture Michael Dunn was the
featured lunchtime speaker. He emphasized the importance of
enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act and discussed the
strategic plan to accomplish compliance. Representatives of
industries regulated by the Act spoke during the afternoon.
They included the American Zoo and Aquarium Association,
International Animal Air Transport Association, American
Veterinary Medical Association, Pet Industry Joint Advisory
Council, and National Association for Biomedical Research.

Cathy Liss, AWI’s Executive Director, and Valerie Stanley
of the Animal Legal Defense Fund spoke, as did representatives
of the Humane Society of the United States and the American
Humane Association.

Former Senator John Melcher, who led the successful fight
to include ”the psychological well—being of non-human
primates” in the 1985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act,
was called upon to speak by the audience, as was Dr. F. Barbara
Orlans, Senior Research Fellow at Georgetown University’s
Kennedy Institute of Ethics and member of AWI’s Scientific
Committee, and Ann Cottrell Free, journalist-activist and
recipient of AWI’s Albert Schweitzer Medal in 1963.

The Animal Welfare Information Center (AWIC), in
conjunction with the anniversary, conducted a workshop on
searching the literature for alternatives to painful procedures
on animals. The library is developing search strategies for
information retrieval, and an on-line search demonstration
was conducted. This important work is mandated by the
Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals, the third
amendment to the Animal Welfare Act, and it has increased in
effectiveness and influence for good in the past decade under
the direction of Jean Larson.

In reporting on the symposium, Michael Kreger of AWIC

 

432 BJBJIBM [amine Us

 




 

animal welfare act g;

 

 

concluded:

”A hundred years from now, someone will write a book
about the history of animal welfare in the United States. The
symposium from September 1996 will leave a written and
video testament in the words of those who had been involved
in what is now still a recent social and regulatory issue. AWIC
is proud to be a part of that history.”

Proceedings of the symposium will be published in early
1998.

laboratory animals

 

 

WI Laboratory Animal Consultant Viktor Reinhardt,

D.M.V., Ph.D., directs his boundless energy to improving
the lot of experimental animals. He has edited a completely
new edition of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals,
using his wide acquaintance in the scientific community to
enlist the' most humane experts to write the twelve different
chapters on animals used for research.

The foreword by
Professor John Gluck states,
1’This book carries on the
heritage of the previous
editions in that it both
informs and challenges us
to go beyond what is often
unreflectively considered
’standard’ housing on to the
next level of compassion
and scientific validity.”
The new book is designed
to convince scientists
and administrators that
providing animals with the
environment they enjoy




makes the findings they are seeking far more accurate.

Drs. Michael R.A. Chance and William MS. Russell report
scientific proof of the great importance of providing laboratory
animals with ” the very best physical and social environmental
conditions for their well-being.” Thus, the well-known ” Three
Rs” -— Replacement, Reduction and Refinement — that

humanitarians seek to prevent pain to animals, contribute

importantly to the achievement of scientific goals.

The National Research Council prepared a report for
Congress on ”Chimpanzees in Research, Strategies for
their Ethical Care, Management, and Use.” In a statement
to the committee that wrote the report, Christine Stevens
said: ”When ABC’s ’20/ 20’ aired the meeting between Dr.
Roger Fouts and Booee, a chimpanzee who had been
taught sign language, the audience
was astonished to realize that Booee
had remembered a nickname for
Dr. Fouts over the period of 16 years
since they had last met. Booee had
been used in medical research and
was not being trained in sign
language during that long period.
’20/ 20’ received massive numbers
of letters asking that Booee be retired
from laboratory use. He has now
been sent to the only place available,
a former animal trainer’s compound
called The Wildlife Waystation.

” If the purveyors of billions of dollars, whose source is the
US. taxpayer, can do no better than this, it is clear that action
must be taken to provide the substantial funds necessary to
ensure comfortable and pleasant retirement for the chimpanzees
who haVe been used for experimental purposes. The National
Institutes of Health would be well advised to set aside a $100
million retirement fund to be used from now on for chimpanzees
in Booee’s position. In the future, each institution should be
responsible for a downpayment on the animals’ retirement
costs before undertaking experiments with chimpanzees.”

Booee pho H
Roger Pouts)

 

 

 

slvwrue $0412.10qu U!

   




 

 

factory farms

 

 

he extreme cruelty to pigs and the environmental

destruction caused by factory hog farms is at last coming to
public notice, and AWI’s work is central to this effort.

AWI is a member of the Campaign for Family Farms and
the Environment (CFFE), whose member organizations oppose
industrialization of pig farming and stand for humane,
sustainable family farm agriculture. Willie Nelson, whose
concerts draw thousands of enthusiastic listeners, spoke at a
major demonstration against the National Pork Producers
Council’s alleged spying on three member groups of the CFFE.
, The National Pork Producers Council was obliged to
acknowledge the findings of a USDA investigation and to
return more than $50,000 of the ”check-off funds” to which
family farms, as well as the factory farm operators, had
contributed.

Just before Christmas 1996, CBS’ ”60 Minutes” interviewed
citizens of North Carolina revolted by the appalling smell
generated by the factory farms, who testified to ”reckless
disregard of the law” by the factory farms and ”ﬁle gal dumping
[of hog manure] when [the industry] thinks no one is looking.”
One pointed out, ”The thing that people need to remember is
that these corporate hog farmers lied to us from day one.”
Morley Safer, who conducted the interview, noted, ” In the last
three years alone 115 farms have been caught illegally dumping
hog waste into waterways.” He pointed out that this has
”closed rivers for swimming and killed thousands upon
thousands of fish.” Footage of the suffering sows, confined to
crates so narrow that they can’t even turn around, was shot by
AWI’s Diane Halverson.*

A ”60 Minutes” Associate Producer wrote Diane: “The
issues involving the hog industry are incredibly complex the
footage you sent us was exceptional, in both quality and scope.

 

*This footage appears in the Humane Farming Association’s video, ” The Pig Picture”
(PO. Box 3577, San Rafael, CA 94912-8902).




Thanks to you, our viewers got a glimpse at what life is like for
the animals in many of these large confinement facilities.”
The threat to human health posed by pig factory farms was
emphasized in AWl’s book review of And the Waters Turned to
Blood, by Rodney Barker. Barker’s book centers on JoAnn
Burkholder’s discovery of a strange, single-celled creature
which she named Pfies teria piscicida, and her unending struggle
to persuade North Carolina officials of its danger to humans as
well as to the fish which it is capable of eating alive. Major
newspapers have been providing full reports on waterways
polluted by Pfies teria piscicida. Factory farming of chickens has
been incriminated in other areas suffering from the same
infestations as the rivers and bays of North Carolina.

To help end mistreatment
of farm animals, AWI is
working with the Niman
Ranch Company and its
network of family hog
farmers who follow humane
criteria developed by AWI.
Niman Ranch products are
distributed to the best
restaurants and trend—setting
chefs in the San Francisco Bay
area, through Trader Joe’s food
stores and the Williams-
Sonoma mail order catalogue.

trapping

he European Union (EU) has prohibited the use of the cruel

steel jaw leghold trap throughout all 15 member states, but
the battle still rages with respect to the import ban against
countries, such as the United States, which have neither banned
this terrible trap nor adopted any ” internationally agreed
humane trapping standards.”

 

A pregnant sow isolated in a narrow stall
(photo by Diane Halverson)

 

 

 

same; Alone; \1

   




 

trapping 00

The beaver epitomizes the suffering of all the animals
caught in the trap’s agonizing grip. AWl’s Betsy Beaver, a 24-
foot inflatable, traveled through Europe last fall to encourage
the EU to stand firm in support of its Regulation 3254/ 91. Betsy
Beaver drew crowds and media notice in Amsterdam, Paris,
Rome, Milan, Pisa, Bonn and Madrid. AWI joined IFAW,
HSUS, RSPCA and other international groups in signing full-
page ads in The London Daily Telegraph, Belgium’s De S tandaard,
Le Soir, Sweden’s Dagsnytheter, Germany’s Frankfurter
Allgemeiner, Italy’s Repabblica, and Spain’s El Manda.

Cathy Liss visited EU officials in Brussels to alert them to
misinformation being circulated by American apologists for
the steel jaw leghold trap. AWI sent large posters to each of the
European Council of Ministers of the Environment and the
Members of the European Parliament. The poster featured a
beautiful young wolf caught in a toothed steel jaw leghold trap
set by the US. government. His mother was imported from
Canada by our government
in an official reintroduction
of the gray wolf. But he has
been condemned instead
to captivity because the
trap cut off circulation of
blood to his leg, which
turned gangrenous, forcing
his captors to amputate the
leg to prevent the wolf pup' 5
death. AWL joined by many
other US. animal protective
groups, made repeated visits
to the Office of the US. Trade
Representative trying to
change their seemingly
immovable opposition to the
European Union Regulation.
We provided them with
Betsy Beaver towers over Pisa I COpies Of 0111‘ publication
Alternative Traps, which

 

 




1g éﬁ

gives full information on the many other capture devices
which are far less cruel than the steel jaw leghold trap. USTR
remained unmoved by all pleas, and the US. delegation, sent
on numerous trips across the Atlantic to try to persuade the
Europeans to go back on the legislation they had passed, was
composed entirely of pro-leghold-trap advocates.

The European Commission, which had been fighting to
weaken the Regulation, finally adopted a ”humane trapping
standard" agreed to by Canada and Russia, but the Parliament,
by an overwhelming vote, refused to accept this inhumane
document. When the matter was put before the Council of
Environment Ministers, it was voted down. But final decisions
are still uncertain, and AWI continues to work actively to
defend the EU’s essential law which can lead to all nations
banning this agonizingly cruel trap.

CITES

 

 

ension and zealotry engulfed the tenth meeting of the

Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES),
which was held June 9 - 20 in Harare, Zimbabwe. AWI sent staff
member Adam M. Roberts to the conference to distribute
information, lobby delegates from the approximately 140
participating nations, and speak to the press gathered from
across the globe to report on the historic decisions of the
meeting.

Taking center stage was the fate of African elephant
populations in Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia, all of which
were proposed for downlisting from Appendix I to Appendix
11, thereby allowing trade in these majestic animals’ valuable
parts and products, ultimately including ivory. Despite AWI’s
diligent work individually and as part of the global CITES
coalition, the Species Survival Network (SSN), pressure from
southern African governments, a pro-ivory media barrage, a
partisan committee chair, and intense lobbying from well-

9
{If
m
"U
E
.5
C19

 




 

 

 

El

financed hunting groups—such as Safari Club International
and Africa Resources Trust—prevailed and the downlisting
was approved. Certain conditions must be met, however,
before the ivory trade with Japan can commence and AWI will
continue to monitor this dangerous situation.

CITES delegates once again rebuffed Japan and Norway’s
collective proposals to weaken protection for five whale species
and an attempt by South Africa to open the door for legal trade
in rhino horn. A proposal by Jordan, Finland and Bulgaria to
increase the protection afforded all brown bears outside North
America was unfortunately defeated, but a resolution on the
”Conservation of and Trade in Bears” was approved. The
resolution, Conf. 10.8, urges all Parties to take immediate
action to reduce the illegal trade in bear parts, including
stronger CITES enforcement and domestic legislation. This
resolution should provide the impetus for the United States
and other nations to prohibit trade in bear gallbladders, the
driving force behind poaching of the species throughout North
America.

The Clark R. Bavin awards, sponsored by AWI to recognize
outstanding achievements in wildlife law enforcement, were
presented by CITES Secretary-General Izgrev Topkov at the
SSN reception. Beautiful rhino sculptures created by wildlife
artist John Perry were bestowed upon eight deserving
representatives from around the world: Russia, Africa, the US
and Europe. Their inspiring efforts on behalf of wildlife at
risk is richly deserving of reward and all too often goes
unrecognized.

AWI will not let up in the fight for the protection of wild
species in trade. Adam serves as chair of the SSN Bear Working
Group and he will likely address the CITES Standing
Committee meeting next march in the United Kingdom. Scores
of decisions affecting threatened and endangered wildlife
across the globe are taken at each Conference of the Parties. We
will continue to play an active role in CITES meetings as we
have since the treaty was signed almost 25 years ago and will
have a strong presence at the next Conference, scheduled to be
held in Indonesia in 1999.




the quarterly

 

 

T he Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to approximately 23,000 individuals
and organizations including public libraries, deans of medical and veterinary schools,
animal protective organizations, teachers, scientists and AWI members. Following are

summaries of some of the articles not mentioned in the main body of this Annual Report.

fall 1996, volume 45 number 4

 

0 Tony Silva, a well-known bird expert who
was the subject of widely publicized smug-
gling charges, was finally sentenced to 82
months in prison —— without parole. Though
Silva had a reputation as an outspoken
conservationist, he pleaded guilty in Febru-
ary 1996 to smuggling scores of rare wild
birds. Silva’s conviction and sentencing
were a feather in the cap of the US Fish &
Wildlife Service’s initiative against exotic
bird smuggling, ”Operation Renegade.”

° Joyce D’Silva, of Compassion in World
Farming, wrote an impassioned editorial
about how people refer to animals as ” crops”
and ”goods” —and to how this affects our
treatment of them. She was an important part of the effort to amend the
Treaty of Rome (the agreement which is the foundation of the European
Union) so that it refers to animals as ”sentient beings” instead of ”agricultural
products.”

 

' The American Association for Laboratory Animal Science conspicuously
barred AWI from exhibiting at its 1996 annual meeting held in Minneapolis.
An AWI booth at the conference would have allowed the thousands of
scientists there to obtain free information helping them improve animal
treatment; the reason AALAS refused is that AWI would not sign an
unequivocal endorsement of AALAS’s positions regarding animal use in
experiments. In a partial retreat, however, AALAS invited AWI Executive
Director Cathy Liss to speak (but not to exhibit) at their 1997 meeting.

Winter 1997, volume 46 number 1

 

' Mitsubishi, the largest corporation in the world—with more economic
clout than most countries—has an appalling record on environmental
exploitation. The giant company logs old—growth forests at a frightening
rate, reducing the habitat of countless animals to cheap exported woodchips.

11

 

 

 




 

 

the quarterly

°Charles R. Richey, US District Judge for
DC, who presided over several key cases
regarding animals, was memorialized in
this issue.

' We were pleased to announce a new
cable TV channel called Animal Planet,
which promises ” all animals all the time”
and seeks to ”contribute to a better under—
standing of how, together, we share the
planet.”

spring/summer 1997, volume 46
numbers 2&3

 

 

° A graceful family of cows adorns the
cover of this double issue; among many stories touching on cattle was a
landmark courtroom victory for ice cream maker Ben 8: Jerry’s. Their
packaging can now bear a label that reads ”We oppose Recombinant Bovine
Growth Hormone. The family farmers who supply our milk and cream
pledge not to treat their cows with rBGH.” This controversial hormone has
been linked to painful health problems for cows —- described in this issue in
a review of a book titled The Dairy Debate, which chronicles Monsanto’s
strong-arm tactics in promoting the drug.

° On another drug-related issue, a federal case involving the smuggling of
clenbuterol—a violently toxic, illegal drug given to veal calves—brought
about heavy penalties levied against several major figures in the US veal
industry. One key figure in the case, however, cannot be extradited from the
Netherlands in order to face justice in the US for the smuggling plot.

' Shirley McGreal, chair of the International Primate Protection League,
wrote a scathing article on the failure of Air
France and the US Fish & Wildlife Service
to prevent an illegal shipment of macaques
on which infant monkeys suffered and died.

° Britain’s National Trust banned the chas-
ing of deer with hounds promptly after the
release of a report by Cambridge Professor
Patrick Bateson, which showed that the
deer are dangerously stressed by the chase,
rather than exhilarated as hunt proponents
had claimed. The admittance of a stress
study to the debate offers hope for dol-
phins, who are pursued mercilessly by
those Latin American tuna boats that still
use cruel fishing methods.

 




speeches made and meetings attended
by AWI representatives

 

 

Hearing on HR. 3398, The Pet Safety and Protection Act, before the House of
Representatives Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy and Poultry, August 1, 1996.

Meeting with Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory
Programs, USDA, regarding enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act, September 10,
1996.

Press Conference by Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt to announce the lifting of
Pelly Certification against Taiwan, September 11, 1996.

US. Department of Agriculture celebration of the 30th Anniversary of the Animal
Welfare Act and the 10th Anniversary of the Animal Welfare Information Center.
Speeches by Christine Stevens and Cathy Liss, Riverdale, MD, September 12, 1996. AWI
material included in month—long Animal Welfare Act exhibit at USDA’s National
Agricultural Library, Beltsville, MD.

Demonstration at the Office of the United States Trade Representative in opposition
to efforts to weaken European Union Regulation 3254 / 91 against the steel jaw leghold
trap, September 13, 1996.

Meeting of the US. Technical Advisory Group to ISO / TC 191 on humane trapping
standards, Miami, FL, September 19 and 20, 1996.

Meetings at the Office of the US. Trade Representative regarding E.U. Regulation
3254 / 91, September 30, 1996; October 25, 1996;.

US Fish and Wildlife Service Preparatory Meeting for CITES CoP10, Arlington, VA,
October 3, 1996.

Presentation on pig farming practices by Cathy Liss to class at James Madison
University, Harrisonburg, VA, October 7, 1996 and February 10, 1997.

Presentation in opposition to Clinton Administration’s defense of steel jaw leghold
traps before the Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee, October 9, 1996.

Annual Meeting of the US. Animal Health Association, Reno, NV, October 11-14,
1996. Presentation to the Animal Welfare Committee by John Gleiber. The Uniform Dog
and Cat Welfare Law was adopted by the Association.

Campaign for Family Farms and the Environment march and rally against factory
farms; Agriculture Forum with the Secretary of the US. Department of Agriculture;
Farm Aid ’96, Columbia, SC, October 12, 1996.

Meeting with officials at the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) to object to US support of Zimbabwe’s CAMPFIRE program, specifically, its
promotion of trade in elephant products, October 17, 1996.

Humane Society of the US. symposium, ” Celebrating the Humane Spirit,” October 18,
1996. Christine Stevens spoke.

European trip to support European law against the steel jaw leghold trap, E.U.
Regulation 3254 / 91, November 4-15, 1996.

AWI Board meetings on December 10, 1996; February 4 and May 14, 1997.

Meeting with the Assistant Secretary, Marketing and Regulatory Programs, US.
Department of Agriculture, December 17, 1996.

Meeting of organizations opposed to CAMPFIRE program in southern Africa, Janu-
ary 22, 1997.

Meeting at the British Embassy regarding E.U. Regulation 3254/ 91, January 23, 1997.

Meeting on Agriculture / Rural Issues sponsored by the Minnesota Farmers Union,
Minnesota COACT, Land Stewardship Project and Minnesota Catholic Conference,
Kasson, MN, January 23, 1997.

13

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

p—A
,4;

 

speeches & meetings

Meeting at the Embassy of The Netherlands regarding E.U. Regulation 3254/ 91,
January 28, 1997.

Meeting at the German Embassy regarding E.U. Regulation 3254/91, January 29,
1997.

Meeting with the Assistant Secretary and the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Market-
ing and Regulatory Programs, US. Department of Agriculture, February 3, 1997.

Press conference to announce petition under the Pelly Amendment to the Fisherman’s
Protective Act of 1967 to certify South Korea for ongoing violations of CITES restrictions
on international trade in bear parts, February 6, 1997.

Meeting with officials at USAID to object to US support of Zimbabwe’s CAMPFIRE
program promotion of trade in elephant products, Arlington, VA, February 18, 1997.

European tour in support of EU. Regulation 3254/ 91 by Cathy Liss, including
European Parliament in Strasbourg, France and Permanent Representatives to the
European Council of Ministers in Brussels, Belgium, February 19-28, 1997.

Forum on Environmental Impacts of Concentrated Livestock Production, St. Paul,
MN, February 22, 1997.

Environmental Liaison Centre International Triennial Congress, Tilonia, India, March
10-14, 1997.

Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research Conference, San Diego, CA, March 17
and 18, 1997.

Campaign for Family Farms and the Environment rally against the National Pork
Producers Council with musician Willie Nelson, Des Moines, IA, March 20, 1997.

Second International Symposium on the Trade in Bear Parts, Seattle, WA, March 21—
23, 1997.

Meeting with the US. Department of Agriculture regarding transportation and
handling of livestock before slaughter, March 28, 1997.

House hearing on HR. 408, legislation to allow resumption of tuna importation into
the United States when the tuna was caught by setting nets on dolphins, April 9, 1997.

Luncheon Meeting hosted by AWI for Members of the Dutch Parliament at the request
of the Embassy of the Netherlands, April 21, 1997. Presentations by Christine Stevens,
Cathy Liss and John Gleiber.

Public Meeting at the United States Department of the Interior to solicit comments on
United States negotiating positions for CITES resolutions and species proposals, April
25, 1997

American Wild Horse and Burro Alliance Conference on The Future of Wild Horses
and Burros, April 26-28, 1997.

Reception hosted by AWI to honor Dr. Jane Goodall, May 12, 1997.

Senate hearing on S. 39, legislation to allow resumption of tuna importation into the
United States when the tuna was caught by setting nets on dolphins, May 14, 1997.

Global Biodiversity Forum: Exploring the Synergies Between CITES and the Conven-
tion on Biological Diversity, Harare, Zimbabwe, June 6-8, 1997.

Tenth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, Harare, Zimbabwe, June 9—20,
1997.

Regular meetings of the Dolphin Safe / Fair Trade Campaign: a coalition working to
protect dolphins and the integrity of the ”dolphin-safe” label.

Regular meetings of the Species Survival Network, its subcommittees and its Board.

Regular meetings of the National Chimpanzee Research Retirement Task Force.

Regular meetings of the Campaign for Family Farms and the Environment, Des
Moines, IA.

 

Meetings took place in Washington, DC unless otherwise noted.




statement of activities and
changes in net assets

 

 

CHENGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
REVENUES“

Contributions - FOundations and trusts
- Legacies and bequests
- other

Membershim

Sale of publications and reprints

Dividend income

Interest income

Realized and unrealized (loss) gain on securities
other income

NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIONS:
Satisfaction of program restrictions:

Save the Whales
campaign for Family Farms and the Environment
Public education and projects
Betsy Beaver Campaign - leghold trap ban
Endangered Species Handbook
other

Total unrestricted revenues and other support
EXPENSES:
Program services

management and general
Fundraising

Total expenses
Increase (Decrease) in unrestricted net assets
CHANGES IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS:

Grants and contributions
Net assets released from restrictions

Increase (Decrease) in temporarily restricted net assets
CHANGES IN PERMANENTLY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
Grants and contributions
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS
NET ASSETS - beginning of year (Note 4)
NEH'ASSEES - end of year

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year Ended
June 30.

1997 1996
$ 94,613 $ 143,093
138,282 41,862
341,152 159,480
31,395 38,104
820 1,738
10,345 10,772
34,075 27,465
(6,024) 30,785
3.151 601
647.809 453.900
7,886 50,126
27,089 45,411

53,349 -

22,000 -

- 29,000
440 -
110.764 124.537
758.573 578.437
557,742 617,349
98,816 102,742
11.258 6.081
667.816 726.172
90.757 (147.735)
112,235 81,446
(110.764) (124.537)

1.471 (43.091)
- 100.000
92,228 ( 90,826)
625.394 716.220
717 622 625 394

A complete financial statement, audited by Rosenberg, Neuwirth é? Kuchner,

certiﬁed public accountants, RC, is available upon request from AWI.

15

 

 




 

 

STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997

Program Services

Public
Education
and Projects

Save the
Whales

Farm Animal

. Management Fund
Campaign Total and General Raising

Totals

Salaries $ 166,463 $ 43,641 $ - $ 210,104 $ 64,340 $ 2,446 $ 276,890

Payroll taxes and
unemployment insurance
Medical insurance
Advertising
Animal Welfare Institute
Quarterlies
Printing and publications
(except for Quarterlies)
Research, writing and editing
Grants
Conferences, meetings and travel
Postage, mailing and addressing
costs (except for Quarterlies)
Telephone, duplicating and
office supplies
Professional services
Membership and subscriptions
Acquisition of books and
other educational materials
Consultants
Schweitzer Medal
Miscellaneous

Total expenses before depreciation
Depreciation of fixtures and equipment

Total expenses

14,212
12,964
4,000

35,449

18,786
75,373

5,000
20,384

19,104

25,401
1,450
3,623

2,079
36,120
550

440,958

2,495

3,577
1,000
2,796

1,240

5,548

2,317

119

60,238

10,000
2,659

405

3,234

35,753

2,000

54,051

17,789
12,964
5,000

38,245

20,026
75,373
15,000
28,591

21,826

28,635
1,450
3,742

2,079
71,873
550
2,000

555,247

2,495

6,499
2,167

552

261
2,904

11,707
8,500

1,054
97,984

832

212
144
515
1,356

1,071

4,348
134

200

10,426

832

24,500
15,275
5,515

39,601

21,649
75,373
15,000
28,852

29,078

40,476
9,950
3,942

2,079
71,873
550
3,054

663,657

4,159

statement of functional expenses

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

founded 1951
Directors Scientific Committee
Marjorie Cooke Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Jean Wallace Douglas Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr. Bennett Derby, MD.
Christine Stevens F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger L. Stevens Roger Payne, Ph-D-
Aileen Train Samuel Peacock, MD.
Cynthia Wilson John Walsh, MD-
Officers Staff and Consultants
Christine Stevens, President l-D- Beary, Computer Consultant
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President John Gleiber, Assistant to the Officers
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary Diane Halverson, Farm Animal
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer Consultant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain —

Cathy Liss, Executive Director
Nell N aughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Patrick Nolan, Publications

Bangladesh Coordinator
Angela King ' United Kingdom Jennifer Pike, Administrative
Simon Muchiru — Kenya. Assistant
Godofredo Stutzin - Chile Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D.,
Mrs. Fumihiko Togo — Japan Laboratory Animal Consultant
Klaus Vestergaard, Ph_.D. — Denmark Adam Roberts, Research Associate
Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D. — Russia Ben White, Wildlife Investigator

 

 

 

BEQUESTS TO AWl

To any who would like to help assure the Animal Welfare Institute’s future
through a provision in your will, this general form of bequest is suggested:

 

I give, devise and bequeath t0 the Animal Welfare Institute, located in Washington,
DC, the sum of $ arid/or (speciﬁcally described property).

Donations to AWI, a not-for-profit corporation exempt under Internal Revenue
Code Section 501(c)(3), are tax deductible. We welcome any inquiries you may
have. In cases where you have specific wishes about the disposition of your
bequest, we suggest you discuss such provisions with your attorney.

 

 

 




 

08

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO BOX 3650
WASHINGTON, DC 20007

PHONE: (202) 337-2332; FAX: (202) 338-9478
EMAIL: awi@animalwelfare.com
URL: http: / / www.animalwelfare.com

 




