The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports,

i

VOL. IX. No. 2.

VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR

PUBLIC MEETING IN LONDON

101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

FEBRUARY, 1935 2d. MONTHLY: 2/6 per annum.

post free.

CONTENTS.
PAGE

10 DRAG—HUNTING
HARE-COURSING. By JOHN MMADAM

11 GLEANINGS

T/le Editor accept: 220 responsiéi/z'ty for opinions exprema’ 2’72 yigrzed amt/ex.

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.——“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder . and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




 

Page Ten

 

CRUEL SPORTS

 

February, l 935

 

VIEWS AND

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Annual General Meeting

The annual general meeting of members of
the League will be held in Room 12, the Caxton
Hall, Westminster, on Wednesday, March 20th,
at 7.30 pm. The usual business respecting re-
ports, election of ofﬁcials, members of Com—
mittee, etc., will be transacted, and it is hoped
that there will be a large attendance.

A notice of the meeting will be sent at least
a month before the date of the meeting to each
member, and will be accompanied by a copy of
the Annual Report and a duly audited statement
of the accounts for the year ending December
81st, 1934.

For the further information of new members
we may say that any member may nominate a
candidate for any of the offices, the only condition
being that the names of the candidates, pro-
posers and seconders must be lodged in writing
with the Secretary at least ﬁfteen days before
the actual date of the Annual Meeting. The
same conditions apply to any proposals to alter
the Constitution and Rules.

Campaign at Liverpool ,

A shop campaign and, if possible, a public meet
ing to expose the cruelties of the Waterloo Hare-
Coursing is being held at Liverpool during the pre-
sent month. The details are not yet available, but
a handbill giving full particulars will be sent to
all members of the League and others interested
in the district in due course. The meeting is
being held under the auspices of the League and
the local Society for Animals’ Welfare, 3721,
Mount Pleasant, Liverpool, from either of which
further information can be obtained.

This meeting has a special significance from
the fact that a strong effort is being made to
induce Lord Sefton, the owner of the \Vaterloo
Course, to withdraw his co-operation. A Petition
to this effect has been in circulation in the dis—
trict for some months and several thousand
signatures, including those of leading citizens,
have been secured.

The report, by John Macadam, in our present
issue, of a hare—coursing meet at Bognor, shows
what a pitiful, shameful sport hare—coursing is.
We hope, therefore, that our friends in and
around Liverpool will concentrate on making the
campaign there a great success and so help
drive this contemptible cruelty into the last ditch
before its ﬁnal debacle and disappearance. It is
long, long overdue to be relegated to that limbo
of those bad old things which have cursed our
civilization, with its hunting-killing-war-mind
and spirit to its inﬁnite hurt.

NEWS

Dame Louise I. Lumsden

By the death, on January 8rd, at the great age
of 94, of this, the last of what The Times calls
the “Three Girton Pioneers,” not only the
League but all the advanced humanitarian and
educational forces of the day, lose a fearless
champion and true friend. Dame Lumsden was
an early and a warm supporter of the work of
the League by her voice, her pen and in all other
ways open to her. In 1928 she became a Vice-
President, and during the same year she presided
at a meeting addressed by the writer in Edin-
burgh, and this support she continued right to
the end. In the last letter he had from her,
written shortly before her death, she eulogised
“ the way in which the League struggles to slay
one of the many cruelties which disgrace our
country.” She enclosed a press report of the
Aberdeen Drag Hunt which she had done so
much to start, also a donation towards our funds,
adding, she would still make some use of certain
leaﬂets she had.

Truly a great soul! As strong and rugged as
her native granite and yet as gentle as a lamb.
Blessed must be the girls who, during the past
'70 years, came under her Spell.

G racing and C oursing

Mr. J. J. Barnard directs attention to the
growing co-operation between greyhound racing
and hare-coursing supporters and urges that
steps should be taken by the League to counter
this as far as possible. The Greyhound Erpress,
the Ofﬁcial journal of gracing, makes a strong
appeal to its patrons in the matter and says that
coursing “ would become more virile ” as a result
of the co—operation.”

\Ve agree that developments should be closely
watched, and we shall be grateful for news cut-
tings and other information so that the twin
menace can be exposed in our general propa-
ganda.

Humane Life

This is the title of a new quarterly journal
published this month from 94, Penn Hill Avenue,
Parkstone, Dorset, to which we give a warm
welcome. It deals with all forms of cruelty to
animals but gives a. prominent place to cruel
sports which it condemns in no uncertain langu-
age. A year’s subscription 2/- post free. if

Donation

The Hon. Treasurer desires to thank the
Edinburgh donor who anonymously sent 2/6 to
the funds of the League for their kind gift.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

February, 1935 C R U E L

s P o R T s Page Eleven

 

PUBLIC MEETING IN LONDON

A public meeting of the League was held in
the Caxton Hall, Westminster, on Monday,
December 10th, at 8 p.m. Owing to the absence
of Canon Donaldson, who was ill, the Chair was
taken by Mr. E. Selous Hodges, the Chairman of
the Executive Committee.

The Secretary read apologies for absence and
messages of sympathy with the objects of the
meeting, as follows :—

Lady Clare Annesley: “I send my best wishes for
a most successful meeting.”

The Rt. Hon. Margaret Bondﬁeld: “I heartily
support the object of the meeting and wish you
every success in the stand you are making.”

Lord Burgh: “ I am certainly in sympathy with
all efforts to modify the conditions of Blood Sports
where possible, where necessary and where econo-
mically sound.”

Mr. G. K. Chesterton: “I hope you will have a
most successful meeting.”

Mr. Gerald Gould: “ I send you my good wishes.”

Mr. Norman Carruther Gould: “The purpose of
the meeting has my fullest sympathy and I wish
it success.” '

General Higgins: “Every good wish for the suc-
cess of the meeting.”

Mr. Laurance Housman: “Your meeting has my
strong syniij’mthy.”

Mr. Henry W. Nevinson: “I am heart and soul
with your object and send you my best wishes.”

Sir Evelyn W’rench: “I am in entire sympathy

with the excellent work you are doing.”

Others associating themselves with the object of
the meeting were the Rev. Frank H. Ballard, The
Marquess of Clydesdale, Miss E. E. Crosby (National
Union of Women Teachers), Mr. R. B. Cunninghame
Graham, Miss Winifred H'oltby, Professor Julien
Huxley, The Rev. Pat McCormick, The Rev. “Dick”
Sheppard, Mr. Beverley Nichols and Miss Sybil
Thorndike.

Ml‘. Hodges, in opening the meeting, said it
had been called to continue our national protest
against an anachronism against something
which was probably necessary in the times of
our forefathers, when wild animals had to be
driven away from the homes. On this shibbo-
leth has been built up a tradition, that hunting
is necessary in order to keep down the wild
animals which are supposed to still exist in these
islands. So, ﬁne types of men and women,
limited in number—as, indeed, they are select in
eminence—mounted on stalwart steeds and led
'by numerous hounds, proceed forth at certain
periods of the year to chase and harry some semi-
domesticated animal! An animal, which, in
some cases, has been bred for the purpose and
perhaps in others, has to be carted about in
order to create this sport! This is really a very
stupid form of pastime, and quite unworthy of
the people who follow it.

To-day thereiare no wild four-legged animals in
these islands, except in the Zoo, and perhaps a
wild cat somewhere in the Highlands.

 

The animals which our hunting cousins feel
they must exterminate, are so used to the
proximity of man, that they even seek sanctuary
in rectories and dive through windows, to hide
behind bookcases. Then the hounds arrive, and
in their pleasant manner proceed to tear the
terrorized beast to bits, and, perhaps, a lady is
graciously offered the “brush,” and a child is
“ blooded.” This is not decent sport, but is rank
stupid cruelty and should be put a stop to.

The vast majority of people in this country are
against Blood Sports, so let us make a thorough
attempt to stop them.

Commander J. L. Cather, R.N., said that some
years ago he used to think that the title “ lover
of animals ” was an unnecessary one, but as the
years had gone he had come to see how much
it has been misused. Almost all the suffering of
animals could be traced back to “ animal lovers,”
people who announced themselves as “animal
lovers ” in order to justify some particular form
of cruelty to animals. He had noticed that when
approached these people said that no one could
love animals more than they did. (Laughter).

Supporters of blood sports usually defended
their pastime from what they termed practical,
sentimental and patriotic motives. Arguing on
the practical aspect of the question, we were told
that stags, foxes and otters were pests. Foxes
were a danger to the agriculturist and poultry
farmer, therefore it was necessary to hunt them,
hunting being the most effective method of de—
stroying them. The sentimentalist said that the
fox was a noble animal and that shooting and
trapping were not good enough for him; he de-
served a better death. The sentimentalist went
so far as to ascribe all sorts of virtues to the fox.
He was called by some “ Gallant Knight.”
Hunting was not only a splendid death for foxes,
who enjoyed being hunted, but it gave them a
splendid chance to escape, which they did not get
in face of a gun. The two things cancelled them-
selves out. (Laughter).

As to the patriotic motive, we have been told
that hunting tended to improve the breed of
horses and also to promote a virile race. Then
the hunting apologist pointed to the great sums
that were spent on hunting. That argument had
been put forward on behalf of every nefarious
trade and was one that should defeat itself.

The argument that hunting keeps down foxes
was entire nonsense. We had been hunting
foxes about 250 years and the foxes were still in
existence. The Hunts actually bred foxes, and
when stags were hunted there was a harbourer
whose business it was to know where the stags
were to be found. It was also the business of

 




 

Page Twelve

one to know where the litters of foxes were to
be found. So that if they wanted to get rid of
the foxes they could do it without trapping or
shooting.

“ People get pleasure out of hunting!” What

a specious excuse to justify a cruel sport. So,

long as people were ready to exploit those animals
weaker than themselves, so long would they be
ready to exploit human beings. (Applause).

Miss Nancy Price said that the English people
had always prided themselves on being a nation
of sportsmen because they liked fair play, but
she was beginning to doubt it. She, herself,
loved sport; she loved tennis and golf, too, but
she did not like a sport that took its pleasure in
the torturing of animals. She supposed that it-
was true that the necessity of life required we
should kill to live, but when we did kill, we
should never take pleasure. in the killing, and we
should never kill_for Sport when there were so
many ﬁne clean sports, such as football, rugger,
and others.

Her father was a fox-hunting squire, and she
remembered the ﬁrst time she hunted and was
present at a kill. It was revolting and she never
hunted again. When the foxes ran to earth,
they were usually taken out and thrown to’ the
dogs. These were things that made her abso~
lutely sick. If people. really wanted to hunt, why
not adopt the drag?

She was once sitting in a wood with her
mother when the hunt was in progress and sud~
denly the fox stopped and its bulging eyes looked
pitifully at them. We were going to call out
“ Tally-ho i”. but we simply could not.

At my home in the country coursing used to
take place. Have you ever heard a hare cry 2’
It cried just like a baby.

Then look at cub-hunting. I lived in the very
heart of a hunting district. The massacre of
those dear, little warm, furry things. I cannot
tell you how much I think about this thing.
May I quote what Oscar 'Wilde said about the
hunter: “ the unspeakable after the uneatable.”
(Hear, hear). I should also like to refer you to
John Maseﬁeld’s “ Reynard the Fox.” I think
it is wonderful in its pathos and descriptiveness.

I am always meeting people who tell us that
hunting is such a ﬁne sport, but they cannot tell
you why, but some of these sports are no better
than the worst forms of paganism.

Miss Price then condemned the blooding of
children as a relic of savagery and urged her
listeners to go out and do something practical
and deﬁnite to stop it. We must not keep a dog
or a cat and shower our affection on it and then
go out and torture another animal.

Mr. Edwin More said that the meeting was
the culmination of a campaign which had ex—
tended for several weeks, ﬁrst at Lynton, then

CRUEL SPORTS

February, i 93 5ﬂ

at Chapel-en-le-Frith, then Bristol, then Malvern,
and now here in London. ,He did not know
whether there was something lacking in our
technique that we could only turn out about
seventy people to attend the meeting; this was
a lasting disgrace considering we were in the
mightiest city of the empire.

It is a reproach to myself and others that this
matter of cruel sports persists. We cannot go
to Barcelona and demand that bull-ﬁghting
should cease as did a friend of mine, who ap-
proached the Mayor of that city. The answer he
got was, “ And you from England who hunt stags
and shoot pheasants? Go back and put your own
house in order!” (Hear, hear).

\Vhy is it, friends, that this question of animal
welfare is so important to human beings 2’ ‘Be-
cause unless we knew what animal welfare is,
we cannot realise the best in humanwelfare.

One of the faces that is missing from the
meeting, is that of the founder of the League,
Mr. Henry B. Amos, the man who seven or eight
years ago, seeing a rabbit—coursing meeting at
Morden, swore to devote his life to this Cause.
He went to that noted humanitarian, Ernest
Bell, also to Henry S. Salt, and others, who
warmly supported him.

Mr. More commended the enthusiasm put into
the work by Mr. Amos who, whilst his health
lasted, went about the country arousing interest
in the movement for justice to animals and did
not hesitate to expose the squires who went
hunting. It was Mr. Amos who brought this
question into prominence, and we are sorry that
he was not able to be present on account of ill-
ness. The torch was still alight, though only
ﬂickering, and it was for us to fan it into a ﬂame.

To the lasting disgrace of Christianity, many
professing followers of Christ were to be seen in
the hunting ﬁeld. (Cries of shame). He men—
tioned the case of the Bishop of Croydon who,
on a recent visit to East Africa, shot two bucks,
and was pleased of the fact. Such smug self-
satisfaction was not Christianity and he had told
the Bishop of Croydon this. To the people who
regard moral issues, he looked for a lead, not a
lapse. The Rev. \Vm. Gr. Shorten follows the
hounds on foot and when a fox was killed in his
scullery, amidst the screams of the domestic ser-
vant-s, the Master gave the mask to the Vicar,
who thought it an honour. The Press stated that
the Rector had been a missionary in Ceylon, and
at the request of the Buddhists, who revere all
created life, he gave up his participation in blood
sports. The people whom he went out to con-
vert were more enlightened than he was, for when
he came back to England he returned to his ﬁrst
love. It is no use depending upon the Churches.
You and I have got to move for we cannot leave
this question with them.




February, I 935

Mr. More ﬁnished with a stirring appeal for
ﬁnancial support and renewed effort to end this
iniquity during the next ﬁve years.

Mr. A. Bididiscombe, J.P., of Bridgwater,
then addressed the meetin . He said that on the

c

. afternoon of November 2 //e saw from his garden

a ﬁne specimen of a hind coming in His direc-
tion closely followed by a pack of hounds.
Jumping a hedge a hundred yards away into an
adjoining ﬁeld, it turned to the right, made a
futile attempt to scale a wall, and then collapsed.
In spite of its exhaustion it continued to camou—
ﬂage itself so that the leaders of the pack passed
within ﬁve yards without seeing it. They came
back, saw her, and though she tried to ﬁght them
'she was surrounded and they pounced on her.

,éléMra—Biddisconrbe said it was impossible to de-

scribe the scene of barbarism and cruelty that
followed for several minutes till someone came
and beat the dogs away. He went across and
found that the creature’s hind quarters had been
‘man'gled by the hounds. Someone had cut its
throat with a knife, but the poor creature was
still alive.

He said he heard one of the gentlemen remark:
"‘ This was one of the best runs we’ve had.”
One said that the affair began at 10.30 a.m. It
was then 2.45 pm. Among all the people pre-

sent, he heard no word of pity expressedfor the

hind. /’

.--v--/Mﬂ3iddiscombe said that after a letter from

him describing this scene had appeared in a
Bridgwater paper a number of people thanked
him for his protest, and one man told him of two
cases in his knowledge where hinds had been
"torn to pieces by the hounds.

7- * * *

DRAG-HUNTING
THE BRIGHTON DRAG HOUNDS.

I watched on Saturday one of the drag hunts
to which I referred in these columns some weeks
ago. The meet took place near the Patcham
’Windmill, and the hunt covered a. tremendous
amount of country between the Devil’s Dyke
and Portslade. I was surprised to. ﬁnd that the
hounds followed the aniseed scent laid by a. horse-
man with as much keenness as if they had been
after Reynard himself. They went across country
at a rare pace, and with the musical cry that used.
to gladden the heart of John Peel.

The riders (like their mounts) were of all types,
and the standard of their horsemanship varied
considerably, but I noticed that the majority
rode as hard as the most seasoned foxhunters.

As I had been advised beforehand of the route
the hunt would follow, I was able to take a. short
cut across country and to be in at the “death.”
Hounds overtook the horseman who laid the trail
near the Dyke Golf Clubhouse. Far from show-

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Thirteen

ing disappointment at not ﬁnding a fox to tear,
they leaped joyfully round the rider, and were
rewarded for their strenuous efforts with a por-
tion of meat apiece.

——Brz'ghton Herald, Dec. 8.

* 1E- * 96

The Aberdeen Drag Hunt had an enjoyable
outing in bracing weather, their meeting point
being Chapel of Garioch. The going was very
heavy and the course of about ﬁve miles
stretched the horses, scent being good and
hounds maintaining a fast pace. The one check
at Blairbuie gave the horses a much appreciated
“ breather.”

A variety of country was crossed by the riders,
alternating between ploughed ﬁelds and others
of grass, and good sport was had.

——Aberdeen Weekly Journal.
Sent in by LIL.

9(- * 96 *

Cruelty in G racing

The use of live rabbits in the training of grey-
hounds for the race track was alleged to be
“ common all over the country ” by Mr. W. M.
Thomas, a Bridgend solicitor.

John Hannah, a trainer at the kennels of the
Barry greyhound track at Cadoxton, was ﬁned
£3; Tom Holding, Cadoxton, and Arthur Robert-
son, Cadoxton, were ﬁned £1 each; and George
Harvey, aged seventeen, Cadoxton, was cautioned
for cruelty to rabbits.

Mr. A. R. Dawson, the presiding magistrate,
described it as a most sordid case of cruelty,
for the rabbits never had a. chance.

—Daily Mail.

>k >l< >l<

F oxhunting and Wages

Sir,——One of your readers a. short time ago
referred to the employment made by this
“ sport.”

Well, talk to any employee of these “brave”
foxhunting men. He will tell you that, in addi—
tion to his week’s work, he has to raise his hat
750 times a week to his “brave” employer, for
the magniﬁcent wage of anything from 25/— to
82/6 per week; unless he is a man employed by
one of the very generous foxhunting men, and
then he would receive 35/ - per week.

Is this employment or mere existence?

Somerset. A SPORTSMAN.

——Brist0l Evening World, Nov. 11.

Try J t On Yourselves

All ye who hunt for pleasure,
In a helpless creature’s pain;
Just try it once upon yourselves,

You’ll never hunt again.
EW.

 




 

Page Fourteen

CRUEL SPORTS

February, I 935

 

HARE-COURSING

THE MOST CALLOUS GALA OF BRUTALITY
By [OHN’MACADAM
Reprinted from the “Sunday DiSpatch ” of December 16th., 1934, by kind permisswm.

I went the other day to Bognor, renowned for
the beauty of its sands and the bracing quality
of its air. And there I saw the most calculated,
callous gala of brutality that can ever have mas-
queraded in the name of sport. I have seen

most sports. But never until this week had I
seen blood-lust ﬂaunting itself in the green ﬁelds.

You may be familiar with greyhound coursing,
and you may not. If you are not, then listen.

. . The hares are beaten up from the surround-
ing country and corralled in a huge cabbage
patch at one end of the coursing ground where,
behind a little screen, waits a man with two
greyhounds on a leash. As soon as the hare
emerges, a terriﬁc hullabaloo breaks out from
the assembled beaters, dogs, ofﬁcials, and gentry,
and the little animal streaks like mad towards
the only cover in sight—in the case of Bognor a
wood at the opposite side of the coursing ground.
When it has travelled 100 yards the man behind
the screen releases the two greyhounds and the
chase is on. So long as the dogs are behind it
the hare keeps straight ahead, but as soon as
they come up it doubles backwards and forwards
in frantic efforts to get away. Its chances of
escaping are about one in a hundred. In the ﬁrst
place, the course is 300 yards long. The hare
gets 100 yards start and the dogs are up with it
before it can do another 50. In the 150 yards
that remain it has as much chance of living as
a snowﬂake in a bakehouse. In an hour or two,
I watched somewhere around ﬁfty hares slaugh—
tered to make this English holiday. I had to
force myself to do it, for everything I have ever
learned and every instinct that I hope makes me
an ordinary civilised human being rebelled at the
lewd exhibition.

Picture it . . . A typical English country
scene. The sun high and clear in the sky; a
keen wind whips the colour into the faces of the
little group of watchers; out in the ﬁeld the red-
coated judge sits astride his horse.

And against this background the little carnival
of Death repeats itself every ten minutes.
Sometimes, in its frenzy, the little hare doubles
across almost to our feet. Its eyes are distended
almost to the point of dropping out with terror.
Silent, implacable, the dogs swerve and swing
with it, cruel jaws snapping and missmg, snap-
ping and missing. And then one does not miss.
There is a second or two of dreadful squealing as

 

the hare wriggles in its last agonies . .

a child might make. I can actually hear the

rending of its ﬂesh as the dogs tear at it until

their kennel boys pull them off the prey, their
blood-ﬂecked fangs still snapping. And the

bunch of bucolic sadists who sat round and
laughed and ate sandwiches and drank their

bottled beer call this sport. There were as many-

women as men there.

They are talking now of the prospects for the

Waterloo Cup, the Derby of the game. I suggest
with every ounce of power at my command that

before then the whole savage business be made-

a penal offence.
‘I * G *-
9

Badger Killed; Cubs ‘Silenced

“ There was a good ﬁeld of followers with
the Heythrop Hounds to-day.

“‘ Immediately the hounds moved to Redes-
dale Copse where a badger, which was frogging
in the stream at Seven Springs, was killed.
Hounds then proceeded to Harford Bridge
where a cub was silenced.

“ W'adham’s Cover was next explored and a
second cub was killed. Afterwards a good hunt
over Colonel. Brassey’s roots revealed another
cub. Then came a thrilling hunt for a large
cub which ran into Brick Yard Corpse, then on
into Bourton village and escaped.”

' —Gloucester Echo, Oct. 3.

~36 ~36 ~X- -k

A Hunting Scene
(From Herman Melville’s “ 0m00.”)

“They were a bull, a cow, and a calf. The
cow was lying down in the shade, by the edge
of the wood; the calf sprawling out before her
in the grass; while old Taurus himself stood close
by, casting a paternal glance at this domestic
little scene, and conjugally elevating his nose in
the air. . . .

“ We crept to the very edge of the open
ground, and knelt behind a clump of bushes,
resting out levelled barrels among the branches.
The slight rustling was heard. Taurus turned
round, dropped his head to the ground, and sent
forth a low, sullen bellow; then snuffed the air.
The cow rose on her fore knees, pitched forward
alarmedly, and stood on her legs, while the calf,
with ears pricked, got right underneath her. All
three were now grouped, and in an instant

would be off. ‘ I take the bull,’ cried our leader.

. squeals,

 

 

 




 

 

February, I 935

CRUEL‘ SPORTS

Page Fifteen

 

 

GLEANINGS

“ WORKMEN SAVED A Fox which took sanctuary with

them at Pontrhydrun (Mon) yesterday.

Pursued by the Llangibby Hunt the fox ran into

the works, and the door was immediately slammed.

Later, when hounds were back in their kennels, the

animal was allowed to go.”

Sunday Pictorial, Jan. 6.

99 * ~36 *

IF Fox-HUNTING WAS ABOLISHED, naturalists and

others interested in the habits of foxes would still

be able to pursue their studies in the wild non-
hunting districts where these creatures are to be

found.”

Sec., L.P.C.S. Malvern Gazette, Jan. 5.

“ FOX—HUNTING. IS NEITHER fair play nor foul—it is
just unadulterated cruelty.”

Old Tonbridgian, The Star, Jan. 5.
>i< >5 * *

“THE PUBLIC ARE NOT SHOWN pictures of (so-called)
gentlemen smearing the faces of children with the
blood of a fox which has been torn before them as
an education in hunting etiquette. . . The names of
the people responsible for so coarsening the minds
of children should be published.”

S. O. Morley, Sunday Empress, Jan. 6.
9e * ee as

CHRISTMAS: “To millions of animals of every de—
scription, Christmas meant suffering and cruel death
. . . If the Christ Child had known that to the re—
membrance of His coming such bloodshed would be
attached, I doubt if He would have come.”

Alexis Gunning, Daily Mirror.
>3 >§< >k >X<

IN THE ARGENTINE: “If it is not possible to arrest
other evils all at once, we can, at least, substitute
such shameful amusements as hunting the stag, fox
otter, hare, and so on, by the Drag, and we shall then
be better qualified to express our opinions on the
cruelties of pigeon-shooting in Monaco or bull—fight—
ing in Spain.”

E. Erskine Gray, Buenos Aires Herald.

A i"

STAG JUMPS 7—FEET WALL: A stag hunt which started
at Shurlock Row (Berks) yesterday, ended in a muni-
cipal cemetery at Reading. The stag, which was
being hunted by the Berks and Bucks staghounds,
ran several miles through the busy streets of the
town and then jumped a 7ft. wall into the cemetery.
The hounds could not follow it and when the stag
tried to escape through the gates it was driven into
a corner, where the huntsmen roped it. Later the
stag was carted back to its quarters.

Reading Mercury, Dec. 22.
:}< >1: >k >l<

Fox KILLED IN CELLAR: A fox was killed yesterday
in the cellars of Rufford Abbey, Notts, the ancestral
home of Lord Savile. The fox entered the Abbey by
the kitchen door, and fled down the cellar steps.
W’ill Jacklin, the huntsman, took the hounds after
it and killed it. The joint Masters of the Rufford
Hunt, the Marquis of Titchﬁeld and Colonel W.
Thompson, were in at the death.

News—Chronicle, Dec. 27.
>l< >:< >l< >l<

FARMERS AND THE HUNT: Sin—May I endorse all
“E.T.A.” has to say in your issue of November 24,
about the manners of those running Hunts in these
days. I speak feelingly, as I, also, was treated in
a very cavalier way, and when I said I could

not have the Hunt over my land owing to the fearful
damage and no redress I and my family were just
treated as mud. A kindly visit and some words of
regret for my loses, though these were very serious,
would have put things right, but the treatment I
received has made me, at times, loathe the Hunt
and everything to do with it, from being one of the
keenest Of the keen.
D.H., in The Field, Dec. 22.

96 96 96 96

Fox IN SHIRT AND PANTS: A proposal to dress a- fox
in Shirt and paints made in a local hosiery factory
and to release it in Loughborrough Market Place:
when the Quorn Hunt met there on Boxing Day was
abandoned through the intervention Of the Master.

“ I was horriﬁed at the suggestion. It was revolt-
ing and ridiculous,” Sir Harold Nutting stated, and
he added, that if the incident occurred, “we should
never meet in L‘oughborough again.”

>5: >§< >X< >k

CAT AND FOX: “Most hunting people'profess to be
animal lovers, and would wax indignant at the
sight of a cat with a can tied to his tail; yet those
very people can watch a horde of bloodthirsty hounds
tear out a fox’s throat, and call it a good day’s
sport. .

E. P. Two-hy, Bristol Evening Post, Dec. '7.

* >l< >i< >i<

THEY CALL IT “SPORT”: I should like to turn a
machine—gun on those who take a frightened animal
——a deer—in a motor trailer, turn it “free,” and pro-
ceed to chase it with dogs. They call it “sport” in
this Christian country.

W.T., Sunday Referee, Jan. 6.

9(- * 9% *

BOAT TOWS STAG ASHORE: The Marquess and
Marchioness of Londonderry, following the County
Down Staghounds in an exciting ten—miles hunt on
Saturday, were among hundreds of people who saw
the rescue of a stag which had taken to the sea at
the ﬁshing village of Ballyw-alter.

Repeated attempts were made from the shore to
lasso the stag, which was swimming strongly in a
choppy sea. Then a motor-boat, which carried a
huntsman, put off, and after nearly two hours the
exhausted animal was towed ashore and taken to
the kennels at Ballynahinch in a motor—vehicle.

Daily Mail, Dec. 31.

THE KIDNAPPED FARMER: John T. Chalmers, Newton
Valence, was at Winchester awarded £100 against
six masked hunting men who dec-oyed him in May
last to a remote spot, tied, gagged and blindfolded
him, then drove him 17 miles and poured beer over
him before he was set at liberty.

Mr. Justice Humphreys in summing up said, that
“what Chalmers was subjected to was an outrage.”

Morning Post, Dec. 5.

it at al.- 96

TWENTY MILES FROM KENNELS: On December ’15, the
Craven Foxhounds had what the Newbury News of
December 20 states to be “A Great Day.” They ran
“very fast” for 55 minutes with a 6—mile point and
“caught in the pen”—a case of ever—increasing
terror culminating in a spectacular kill. After the
“break-up” hounds found again and after another
very fast “great” 40 minutes: and a 5-mile point, '
were “run out” of scent nearly 20 miles from the
kennels thus leaving the victim with his bursting
heart. A “ First—Class ” Hunt! I

 




Page Sixteen c R U E L s P o R T 3 February, 1935 '

The League For The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

lOl, Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, ~S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

 

 

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

 

Vice-Presidenttw-
LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, ESQ-
Sm HERBERT BARKER- DAME LOUISA INNES LUMSDEN. HENRY W- NEVINSON, Esq-

. Es: %Anég§$A§p¥ng, F.R.Soc.th., LL.D. (Edinburgh), BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
(Ex-Pres., Nat. Un. Tchrs.). LADY EMILY LUTYENS. EDEN PHILLPOTTS, ESQ-

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD. Esq. PERCY A. SCHOLES, ESQ-
G. P. Goocn, D.L__ltt. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic 01.). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”! .

IT CONDEMNS fox deer, bare, and otter—hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned.” )

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds Without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ’.’ of children, and demands its cessation ( See
leaﬂet “ Blooded”) , '

 

 

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Grolulpg,1 etc., If out-of—pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
aval a , e.

 

JOIN THE LEAEUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports. .

I enclose herewith* ................ i ............................ ..

State
whether
Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss. ...................................................................................................... noon-oooeeoo.

'5/- per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S.. I01, Chanda: House, Westminster, S.W.I.

.COOOOOOOCOOOOCOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOO O OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO O .......... O OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO U

 

FORM OF BEQUEST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :-

I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL Sponrs, Iondon, the sum
of. .. .. .. ......... . .. .. .. ....... free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be In writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

BRIGHTON.—_Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure BigDLEIﬁH §ALEE§TQE’ the Coaﬁstgl Gem M'iiimrtth Dragon.
generous varied diet Bedrooms h. and 0. water gas uperior oar "Les-1 ence. e rooms WI ' an 0‘

’ ’. running water, earned and attractive food. Adequate

ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, Inclu- vegetarian meals if desired—Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale

siye terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, 16 and Wormald, “Mountway.”

17. Norfolk Terrace. WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880.._Sewe11, 51, Lan-
BEAUT‘IFUL BUTTE.RMERE.._.Victoria Golf Hotel. Season caster Gate, London.

terms £4/4/-. Sw1ss balcomes 10/6d. extra. (Quiet HUMANE FUR! (fabric)._104, George Street, W.1., Wel-

perlods 75 per cent.) beck 7257_

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of ltd. per word per insertion or 2/6d. per line for twelve
insertions and they should be received at the ofﬁce by the 15th of the month for the following month’s issue.

Published by the LEAGUE FOR. THE PROHIBITION 0F CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House. Palmer Street,
Westminster. S.W.l; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD, Bond Gate. Nuneaton.

k

 

 




