SUPPLEMENT TO “THE VEGETARIAN NEWS."

 

THE CHICAGO STOCKYARDS

 

 

 

 

The ” West ” has moved a thousand miles closer to the Rockies since the
Stockyards at Chicago were ﬁrst founded, but the yards themselves still
remain the principal ﬂesh—packing centre of the United States. The picture
gives a View of the almost limitless expanse of pens 1n Wthh the cattle are
kept before being handed over to the slaughtermen. The stockyards cover
an area of approximately ﬁve hundred acres,. With a water—frontage of about
twenty miles. If added together, the feeding-troughs would make a line
twenty-ﬁve miles long.

 




AfCOLOSSALlACT OF TWENTIETH CENTURY EXPLOITATION: THE STOCKYARDS AT CHICAGO

 

 

 

 

Like the preceding, this picture offers impressive testimony to the enormous magnitude of the trafﬁc in sub—human sentient life which goes on year by
year continually at Chicago, not only the largest ﬂesh—packing centre in the United States, but also of the entire world.

Altogether, more than a half—
billion dollars’ worth of “livestock” (which is the way in which it is customary for man’s poor relations, in this connection, to be described) is thus
dealt with annually at Chicago, the actual total for 1931 including, amongst cthers, 1,996,479 cattle and calves, 2,979,494 sheep and lambs, and 6,654,993
pigs. Hardly anything is allowed to be wasted, and it is the proud—J likewise the most infamous—boast of the pig-dealers that they are
able to utilise “ everything except the squeal.” Setting aside such heartless cynicism as this on the part of its opponents, the vegetarian movement claims
to possess a saner and more widely—embracing philosophy than theirs. To be precise, it can in no wise even consent to forget the squeal.

 




THE CHICAGO STOCKYARDS: ANOTHER VIEW

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As regards horror of tragedy itself we say nothing at all here, beyond
what is expressed in Sir John Squire’s eloquent and poignant lines printed in
the present issue. Even thus it is not so much the horror as the digniﬁed emotion
that accompanies it to which we would wish to call attention. As will be
observed, the actual killing-sheds are not depicted in any of the accompanying
photographs, though a gallery by which these are approached is shown in
this as also in the preceding picture. The present photograph shows also
some of the buildings in which subsidiary industries are housed.

 




