Mendacious Laboratory Reports. ,~

I
To THE EDITOR OF THE HERALD :-—- / \

I

Sir,—— The flattering statements which appear in print” to the
effect that Dr. Flexner, of the Rockefeller Institute, has discovered
a cure for spinal meningitis and that he has reduced the mortality
of the disease therewith from 80 per cent. to between 15 and 20 per
cent. must be taken with a pretty large grain of salt, foi', according
to the weekly reports of the New York. Health Department (which
figures can be easily veriﬁed), there were in Greater New York
from the week ended January 1, 1910, 339 cases of cerebro spinal
meningitis and 330 deaths, a death etc of over 97 per cent. instead
of between 15 and 20, as was stated. ,

We anti~vivisectionits, who base our statements on truth an
exactness and who demand the same from our opponents, smile a
little—just a little—when we read these ﬂattering laboratory reports
so utterly at variance with existing facts, and we complacently
recall the vituperative epithets, such as "hysterical,” “unbalan-
ced,” “erratic,” etc., etc , which are hurled against us by those
who have no well-founded argument against our strongly-entren-
ched position, but, as in these vituperative compliments hurled
against us are necessarily included the most eminent men of all
classes in the world, in whose excellent progressive anti-vivisection
company we ﬁnd ourselves fighting this the darkest chapter in the
world’s history, we smile still more and still more pleasantly,
realizing that perhaps sooner than we dare to think the dawn ofa
brighter day will reward our weary efforts.

“ABOLITIONIST.”
Paris, November 21.

 

Infantile Paralysis.

To THE EDITOR OF THE HERALD :—

Sir, ——The suggestion recently offered by your correspondent is
certainly timely and important, to wit : that information shouldbe
forthcoming concerning the dread disease infantile paralysis,
which, ghost-like, mysterious and mystifying. wanders through
the land laying its heavy hand upon children from unsuspecting
households.

But any inquiry that could be made, except under the supervision
of a sanitary commission, concerning this dread disease would be
as useless as the cancer research which, spending vast sums of
money and years of valuable time, has resulted only in giving
tumors to thousands and thousands of mice.

If this inquiry is entrusted to the laboratory bacteriologists the
résult will be that trough the inoculation of dogs, monkeys and

guineapigs, they will discover 110w the disease can be created in

animals, etc., but this will, as in similar fruitless researches, in no
wise benefit the human sufferers. What we want to ﬁnd out is
“why one child takes the disease and another does not ‘2"

“What there is in the system of one child that invites the germ
while another child resists the enemy ‘2” “ What are the exact
conditions of the blood that make one being susceptible and
another immune against this malady that strikes swift and sure
and gives no explanation of itself? ” ' '

These germs are hungry little creatures and ‘ .
accuracy their breeding grounds, whe'
and their fast - multiplying cf“
which the impressive “la
ignored and o‘v ’ ‘

“Bacteriolog
“Medical Brief"

ledicine. Me
' l

 




