A LITTLE MOURNER NEVER FORGOTTEN

(John T. Oakley in the “Baptist and Reflector.”)

On a bright May morning, when I was a lad of thirteen, my father sent me
to have some work done in a shop about two miles from home. My path led
through ﬁelds and woods. In passing through a skirt of timber with thick
underbrush my ears were saluted by'the singing of two beautiful little birds in
the branches above me. I threw a stone and killed one of them. I ran and
picked it up, looked at its beautiful colors and soft, downy feathers, threw it
down and went on my way. Late in the day, on my return, I was attracted by
the pitiful cry of a little mourner where I had killed the bird in the early morn—
ing. I halted and looked up, and there was the mate of the bird which lay dead
at my feet. It ﬁitted with drooping wings here and there, calling and calling
for its companion, from which came no response. As I looked and listened my
heart grew sad, and I bowed my head and said, “I wish I hadn’t done it.” I
went on home leaving the little mourner calling in vain, for the innocent
sleeper on the ground answered not.

Fifty years have come and gone and still I can hear the cry of that little
bird mourning for its lost mate. That cry has lingered with me all these years.
That my conduct brought sorrow and separation between two innocent com—
panions singing sweetly together made me sad then, and I have never been able
to hush the incident away from the memories of my childhood. How often in
my own life I have felt the sorrow of that little mourner in the woods. The
ﬁrst funeral I ever conducted when a boy preacher was that of a husband. When
I saw his wife bow down to kiss his cold brow and say good—bye, I heard again
the pitiful notes of sorrow in the woods. W’hen long years had passed by, and
my dear mother went away never to returnhand I saw my father with bowed
head and aching heart, I thought of the little mourner lamenting for its departed
mate. Still later, when my own precious child left us and her voice was no
longer heard, I remembered the innocent sleeper on the ground and the tender
cadences of its heart-broken companion. Tonight as I write these lines there
comes to me over the distance of ﬁfty years the voice of the little mourner in
the woods.—Hartsville, Tenn.

 

 

 

Copies of this leaflet may be obtained of the World’s Superintendent of the W. C. T. U. Department of Humane
Education, Mrs. Mary F. Lovell, Jenkintown, Pa. or of the National W. C. T. U.. Literature Building. Evanston, 111.
Price, 25 cents per 100, postage paid.

 




 




