THE NEW YORK

TIMES, SUNDAY, JULY 26, 1964.

 

--——EXPERIMENTING WITH

 

High school 20, in the
Soviet experimental sc

of Japanese, English and computer technology to train
language specialists to construct translating machines.
Pictures show a ninth-grade teacher directing pupil
at blackboard (top) in Japanese lesson which must be
improvised in totally new Japanese curriculum. Jap-

anese students from M
(lower left) are record
nunciation. Teacher

(lower right) as students hear Japanese lesson.

 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
    
  
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
  

heart of Moscow, is the first
hool to combine the teaching

oscow’s Friendship University
ing songs at school to aid pro-
controls language laboratory

LANGUAGE TRAINING IN

 

MOSCOW

 

ISOLATED BEHAVIOR

 

Experiments With Puppies May
Indicate Therapy for Humans

 

By JOHN A. OSMUNDSEN

When a little child loses the Were those the effects of
love and affection of his parents having missed something at a.
or guardians~~through death, di- critical period in their lives? Or
vorce or just plain disinterest—miwas that behavior an expression
he, in effect, becomes socially‘of anxiety over being exposed
isolated and deprived of. the kind,suddenly to people and things
of guidance and support helthat were strange to them?
nbeds to make a COI‘I'BCt adjllSt‘ To find out, the scientists
ment to the complex world tried to relieve the anxiety that
about him. Confused and P91" the isolated puppies might have
haps a little frightened, he fren experienced by giving them
quently ShOWS his 300131 wounds tranquilizers and handling them
by becoming a problem Child 01": gently before releasing them
eventually, a juvenile delinquent. into the play arena.

To what exteflt can SUCh That did it. The puppies so
WOUhdS"“‘SUff-ered 1“ the forma' treated improved markedly over
tive years when an indiwdual’s isolated puppies that emerged
personality is taking Shapembe “cold,” indicating that the ef-
healed? Ahd what‘is the best fects on behavior came not
way '50 hf”? the healing process ? from the isolation experience

Tentative answers to theseibut from anxiety on emergence
QUEStiOhS are coming' from gx‘iwhich could be greatly alleviat-
periments Wlth puppies Whmh ed. Even if puppies were reared
scientists at the Jackson Labo-lin isolation with toys or in pairs
ratory in Bar Harbor, l\vle., haveibut without special training,

 

 

 

 

i
1
i
!

 

Sovfoto

 

 

 

  
 
   
 
   
  
   
     
    
  
  
     
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
   
 
    
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
     
 
  
 
   
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
  
 
   
      
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
     
    
  
    
  
    
    
 
   
  

FLUX— I
. record 74,814 students from;
foreign lands were residentf
1,805 United States collegesi
universities during the aca-i
ic year 1963-64. This was
ncrease of 16 per cent overi
previous school year. ;
= ere also were 8377 foreign,
lars~facuity and re:'-3ea.rel'i
re from 107 foreign coun-
. and 8,804 physicians doing,
'nships or residencies. f
e figures were compiled byl
nstitute of International
tion. 809 United Nations

New York,‘ and have
)ublished in a pamphlet.
Doors 1964,” that can be
for $2.50 from the in-

largest number of for-
udents, 8.458, came from
t, with India next, 6.387,

‘d by Japan and Iran,
with slightly more than

 

1e highest enrollment of
.sitors, 3,927, followed by
abia with 2.289 and New
niversity vith 2,074..
eering was the leading
7 study, followed by the
ties, national and physi-
- ce, social science, busi-
.dministration, medical
, education and agricul-
than a third. 27.982,
-lf supporting. The others
d aid from their own gov~
ts, from Washington, or
rivate foundations or the
tions where they studied.
United States sent less
» fifth as many students
culty members abroad——
. The largest number,
went to Mexico, 2.308 to
it. and most of the re-
‘ to Europe.

 

  

Some had failed the foreign-

 

' NEWS NOTES: CLASSROOM ANDCAMPUS

TAMING OF THE SCIENTIST?

From the days of the alchemists to “Dr. StrangeldVe,”
fear of the “mad scientist” has always been part of folk-
lore. In a more realistic sense, responsible observers of the
modern scene increasingly demand that scientists be aware
of the social and political implications of their work. Last
week, Purdue University announced the creation of a new
political science department “with a goal to meet the threat
of power which could be held by irresponsible scientists.”

The department hopes to “produce people who under-
stand the implications of power that rests in control of
scientific developments.” On the graduate level, it will
try to train “scientific statesmen” and assure that scientists
understand the “humanist” tradition.

Demand for a concentration on “science and public
policy” emerged after a study of the Federal power now
influenced by scientists. In addition, “recent developments
in genetics or molecular biology present social problems
and possibilities for government control which even Hitler
didn’t dream about,” said Professor Boyd R. Keenan, head
of the new department. Weather, water and air control
pose added questions. ' “ " ‘

Other institutions which are actively dealing with
this problem are M.I.T., Harvard, Princeton and the Uni-
versity of California.

 

 

 

 

University Of California. greatest. number of undergradih{course have been outlined in a.
ates-v27 per cent— “came to thc;teacher manual. Part of the ma-:

United States because theyiterial has been put on records,
could not gain acceptance inlwhich are coordinated with a
their own country’s colleges.i'picture-reader book, Eventually
language requirement, whichgrade is planned.
usually is French. Another groupi Dr. Senesh uses, among other
w23 per cent said that theirldevices, fairy tales with which
families were in the Unitedﬁchildren are familiar to teach
States or that they wanted toieconomics. He said: “In eco-
become United States citizensinomiCS, every significant prob-
By contrast, Canadian gradu-ilem is a problem 0f scarcity—
ate students usually chose Amen,iWe want more than we can 8“-
ican universities because theyiVVe may dramatize this for the
considered them better in terms,‘Children by having them read
of courses and faculty. lfairy stories and other simple
” lstories. The stories are based on
, 19wants and the ste 5 taken by
GIANT STEP“ the characters to pfulfill their
Under the title “A Giant Stepi'desires.”

 

’, '
Forward, the Seience Research He added that such stories re-

ASSOClateS’ Inc., have publis 9‘3 flected another idea important
a 12-page pamphlet that. 0‘ in economicsw‘the tremendous
scribes new methods of tea .
in?“ social studies in the pri
cs. The program, C.

. 7r r107, ..

If

 

     

l
a relatively casual atmosphere.
The Americans may thus ben-
lefit from, their teachers”
knowledge of African history
Eand mores. The African women
iwill return home to take an ac-
tive role in their community,
[with an idea of what American
,teenagers know and feel about

ithe developing nations, as well

-las a more profound knowledge

l .
'of the areas )roblems and
I

development.

1 A series of lectures on Africa
land library and museum exhi-
lbitions are open to the general
ipublic as part of the program.‘

BOOKSHELF——
i Book‘s to Build. World Friend—
ship, Judith Wragg Chase;
Oceana Publications, Inc.
lDobbs Ferry, New York; 76 pp.
1552.95. An annotated bibliogra-
phy of old and new children’s
books about European ' coun-
tries, suitable for preschool to
grade eight.

A C(miplele

a

 

l
l

Guide to the

er conditions. Their findings, What they did W‘
preliminary as the‘ also'la‘nother puppy, w;

4;, 15,117.“;6 +7}: :zT-‘v y“ i-lr'ff V'f l,‘;;;;€,_}\4.3 -

‘-' 1t.- . H -‘ I. " i ‘. .

,which might be effec elp-Lto meet the

native?

been conducting for the paStI’they did little better upon emcr~
several years. fgence without tranquilizers and
Preliminary Findings ‘prehandling than the completely

They have found that puppies, 150121th puppies had.
like children, behave strangely 'Oh this basis, the. scientists
when socially isolated. Most im- thl‘fd further to ”many the COh'
portant, however, they ha~veld1tions under which isolated
found indications that the ef-‘puppies were introduced to so-

fects of social deprivation canidety, hoping to improve their

be greatly reduced and in someiadjUSittmtegllilExnsﬁlcogi-df?d U1"
‘c‘.’ . C L (.

cases eliminated under the prop- ,appe

  
     
  

  

ling children overcome the effectsilemergence from isola
let an unfavorable home environ-l
gment. i
l The scientists are John Fuller,
1a geneticist at the laboratory, _
{and Dr. Lincoln Clark, a. psyr
Ichiatrist at the University of; ."
gUtah. Dr. Fuller told the story
Eof their research during an in~
iterview recently at the labora-
ltory.

i The work began as an at-
itempt to determine whether
’large doses of tranquilizers—---—
élarger than those sometimes
given to children to help control

gbehavioral problems—would in-
l

iterfere with psychological devel-
iopment if administered very
learly in life. The scientists used
jbeagle puppies in the experi-
iments, rearing them in isolation
jcages and taking them out once
la day for exercise and training.

puppies’ behavior was
:scored on playfulness, curiosity

 

 

3" V‘

1
l
I"!
i
l
l

      

Brooks in The Birmingham News

“Problem child.”

 

 

iThe
seemed to help greatly, appar-

land response to other puppies,

 

people and toys.
While they were on tranquil-i
izers, the puppies were dull and;
unresponsive. When they were
taken off the drug, however,
they were just. as quick and
bright as puppies that had been
similarly isolated but had not
received any tranquilizers.

l

Implications for People

This surprised the scientists
who set up a test to find out if

 

 

l

:Acc’redited0077981)07Ldence;0ffset any deleterious effects
Flemingnthat the

Schools, Alice M.

EDoubleday & Company, Inc,

l

a series to run through SiXtthal‘den CitV New York' 83%
: ' u! r l

,school. choose the best courses
land save money in home?
,‘study, under programs accred-
llited by the National Home
Study Council.

i Why Go to College, Corning
Glass Works Foundation, 717
:Fifth Avenue, New York; 92
pp. Without charge. Ten lec-
tures by famous educators on
ithe advantages —— intellectual,
,spiritual and practical—of a
gcollege education,

. Battlefields m Teacher Edu-
lmtio’n, Sam P. Wiggins; George
Peat ody College for Teachers,

 

 

 
     
     
 
     
   
  

. .‘
vrsies and i'cfm'm!

rag ville, Tenn; 109 pp. Paper
0, cloth $3.00. A review of either withdrawn and indiffer-

""iﬁllfx‘

   

the puppies’ daily training had.

 

tranquilizers might
have had. i
They took three - week - oldl

ipp. $1.95. How to find the Tightfbeagle and wire-haired fox ter-i

rier puppies and isolated them
for three months. Some were
taken out and trained once a
week, some twice, three and
four times a week. One group
was not taken out at all during
the 12 weeks.

The isolated puppies were
caught up with the others by
receiving four weeks of training
after they came out of isolation.
Nevertheless, they showed se-
vere effects of the experience
while the other puppies behaved
for the most part quite nor-
mally.

The isolated puppies were

eut or were overactive. snapping
screaming hysterical-

 

 

 

1_..i. I

 

ently as a result of the pet’s
forcing the isolated puppy to
focus more sharply than it could
by itself and to respond in a
coherent manner.

From these experiments, the
two scientists have drawn some
tentative implications for people.

First, social deprivation causes
most of its damage through the
anxiety-creating conditions that
one meets on emerging into a.
complex social situation.

Second, those effects can be
reduced or even eliminated if
the individual is not required to
make too many responses alone
or without the aid of some
nieanS~--~-such as tranquilizing
drugs—«to reduce conflicts.

This might be achieved in
children, Dr. Fuller suggested,
by pairing a socially deprived
youngster with someone of his
own age, sex and general type
who is healthy.

Third, heredity plays an im-
portant role in adjusting to
society. Dr. Fuller noted, for
example, that on practically
every measure of reaction to
isolation the beagles differed
from the terriers.

Lastly, the geneticist said that
social isolation cannot be all
bad, because the isolated dogs
tended to be more responsive
and less aggressive than those
reared as pets, which were fre-
quently bored.

   
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
    

 

 

 
    
  
  




e W ITN ESS

IO¢

MAY 21, 1964

MEN AND BOYS IN CHAPEL

THAT TEACHABLE MOMENT perhaps best describes the
opportunities conference groups and families have in the
attractive surroundings of YMCA Camp Trout Lodge, on
the shores of Sunnen Lake, near Potosi, Missouri, operated
by the YMCA of Metropolitan St. Louis. Last year more.
than 74 ~church groups, and 594 families enjoyed the fa-
cilities and fellowship provided in this Wholesome setting.
This scene in Danforth Chapel expresses the concern of
the YMCA management for providing the atmosphere
Where young people and families may grow in stature

 

 

MANIFESTO ON THE TRIPLE REVOLUTION

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

SERVICES

In Leading Churches

 

 

NEW YORK CITY
THE CATHEDRAL CHURCH
OF ST. JOHN THE DIVINE
Sunday: Holy Communion '7, 8, 9, 10; Mom-
Ing Prayer, Holy Communion and Ser-
mon. 11; Evensong and sermon, 4.
Morning Prayer and Holy Communion 7:15
(and 10 Wed); Evensong, 5.

 

 

ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S CHURCH
Park Avenue and Slst Street
Rev. Terence J. Finlay, D.D.
8 and 9:30 a.m. Holy Communion 9:30 and
11 a.m. .Church School. 11 a.m. Morn-
ing Serv1ce and Sermon. 4 p.m. Even-

song. Special Music.

Weekday: Holy Communion Tuesday at
12:10 a.m.; Wednesdays and Saints
Day;

at 8 a.m.; Thursdays at 12:10 p.m.

Organ Recitals, Wednesdays, 12:10. Ere.
Pr. Daily 5:45 p.m. l

 

 

CHURCH OF THE HOLY TRINIT‘S.~

316. East 88th Street
NEW YORK CITY
Sundays: Holy Communion 8: Church

9
(Holy

., . School
:30; Morning Prayer and Sermon 11:03).
Comm union lst Sunday in _\ lontli

a

GENERAL THEOLOGICAL
SEMIN.\RY CHAPEL
Chelsea Square 9th Ave. 8: 20th St
NEW YORK
Daily l\/Io_r11ing Prayer and Holy Commun'on. '7
. (/z30 Saturdays and holidays
Daily Choral Evensong, 6. —

 

 

SOLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
SAINT PAUL’S CHAPEI
NEW YORK
The Rev. John M. Krumni. Pi:.D
Chaplain
Daily (except Saturday), 12 noon;
Holy Communion, 9 and 12°

‘\

Sunday,
. 30, Alorntng

 

 

Prayer & Sermon, 11 a.m.: VVedncsdar,
Holy Communion. 4:30 p.m. '
ST. THOMAS

5th Ave. 8: 53rd Street
Rev. Frederick M. Morris, D.D.
Sunday: HC 8, 9:30, 11 (lst Sun.) MP 11;
Ep Cho 4. Daily ex. Sat. HC 8:15,
HC Tues. 12:10, Wed., 5:30.

Noted for boy choir; great reredos
and windows.

 

N

THE CHURCH OF THE IlPIPHANY
Ycrk Avenue at 74th Street
Neat New York Memorial Hospitals
Hugh McCandless, Lee Belford, David
LVa) ne, Philip Zabriskie, clergiI
Sundays: 8 a.m. HC: 9:30 Family (HC 35)
11 M (HC IS)-
Wed. HC 7:20 a.m.; Thurs.
One of New York’s
most beautiful public buildings.

HC 11 a.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ST. STEPHEN’S CHURCH

Tenth Street, above Chestnut
PHILADELPHIA, PENNA.
The Rev. Alfred W. Price, D.D., Recto'
The Rev. Gustav C. Meckling, B.D.

Minister to the Hard of Hearing

Sunday: 9 and 11' a.m. 7:30 p.m.
Weekdays: Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs., Fri.,
12:30 - 12:55 p.m. ‘

Services of Spiritual Healing, Thurs, 12:30
and 5:30 p.m.

 

 

 

The Witness
For Christ and HisliChurch
EDITORIAL BOARD

lOI-IN MCGILL KRUMM, Chairman

\Y. B. SPOEPORD SR., Managing Editor

EDWARD J. MOHR, Editorial Assistant
0. SYDNEY BARR: LEE A. BELFORD; KENNETH
R. FORBES: ROSCOE T. FOUST; RICHARD L-
GARY: GORDON C. GRAHAM: DAVID JOHNSON;

HAROLD R. LANDON; LESLIE J. A. LANG:
BENJAMIN MINIEIE: W. NORMAN PIT-
TENGER; WILLIAM STRINGEELLOW.

EDITORIALS: —— The Editorial Board holds
monthly meetings when current issues before
the Church are discussed. They are dealt

with in subsequent
represent

of the editors.

ntunbers but do not

necessarily the [unanimous opinion

3::
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS

THOMAS V. BARRETT; JOHN PAIRMAN BROWN;

GARDINER M. DAY; JOSEPH F. FLETCHER;
FREDERICK C. GRANT; HELEN GRANT; COR-
WIN C. ROACH: BARBARA ST. CLAIR: MAS

SEY H. SHEPHERD JR.; W. B. SPOFFORD in.
it

published weekly from
15th to June 15th inclusive, with
the exception of one week in January and
bi-weekly from June 15th to September 15th
by the Episcopal Church Publishing Co on
behalf of the Witness Advisory Board.

it

The subscription price is $4.00 a year; 111
bundles for sale in parisnes the magazine sells
for 10C. 3 cepy, we will bill quarterly at 7c .3
c0p\. Entered as Second Class Matter, August
5, 19—18, at the Post Office at Tunkhanno-CR.
Pa., under. the act of March 3. 1879.

THE WITNESS is

September

 

 

 

 

HOLY MATRIMONY
By Hugh McCandless
THE MEANING OF
THE REAL PRESENCE
By G. A. Studdert-Kennedy

SHALL I BE
A CLERGYMAN?

By Gordon T. Charlton Jr.
THE PRAYER BOOK

Its History and Purpose
By Irving P. Johnson

25¢ a copy Ten for 32

THE WITNESS
Tunkhannock, Pa.

_\

SERVICES——

In Leading;~ Churches

 

CHRIST CHURCH
CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

 

 

The Rev. Gardiner .11. Day, Rector
Sunday Services: 8:00. 923(7) .1111 11:15 .i.m
Wed. and Holy Days: 8 :00 and
12:10 p.m.
CHRIST CHURCH, DETROIT
976 East Jefferson .-\\'enue
The liar. llv'illiam B. Sperry Rector
8 and 9 a.m. Holy Communion ‘(breaktaSI
served following 9 a.m. wince) 11 a.m.
Church School and Morning Service.

Holy Days, o llol\ Communion.

p. m.

 

a. .. . ..- mxu.w...—. r—nv-i

 

ST. THOMAS" CHURCH
18th and Church Streets
Near Dupont Circle
VVASIIINGTON, D. C

The Rev. John T. Golding, Rector
The Rev. IValter E. Neds
The Rev. IValter I. Maishfield
Sundays: 8:00 a.m. Holy
aim. Service and Sermon.
Evening Prayer.
Holy Days:
Thursdays :

11.00

p.711.

C (nonunion.

7:30

Communion.
Communion.

llolV
Holy

12:15 p.m.

7:30 a.m.

 

TRINITY CH URCH

IV‘IIAMI, FLA.

 

Rev. G. Irvine Hiller, STD” Rector
Sunday Services 8. 9, 9:30 and 11 a.m.
PRO-CATHEDRAL ()1: THE
HOLY TRINITY
23 Avenue. George V
PARIS, FRANCE
Services: 8:30, 10:50 (8.5.), 10:45

Boulevard Raspait

Student and Artists Center
The Rt lCt‘. Stephen Bayne, Bishop
The Very {eta Sturgis Lee ﬁddle, Dean

 

 

CHURCH OF ST. MICHAEL
AND ST. GEORGE

ST. LOUIS, )hssouru
The Rev. Jack E. Sch'u'eizcr, Rector

Sundays, 8 9:30, 11 a.m.

 

 

\Wl— ‘— —7' ~__.,,_____ ____'ﬂ_#1

ST. JOHN’S CHURCH
Lafayette Square

\I'ASHINOION, D. C.

The Reverend John C. Harper, Rector

\Veekday Services: Mon., and Thurs, ‘HC‘lI
Communion at 12:10. Tues., 1101‘
Communion as 7: 30 a.m. \Vedn En.

and Sat., Noonday Prayers at 12310'

Sunday Services: 8 and 9:30 HOIY Com
amnion: 11 )Iorning Prayer and Seqno",
Church School} 4 ErenCh Service; 313“
Evening Prayer. 1

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

VOL. 49, NO. 20

The WITNESS

MAY 21, 1964

FOR CHRIST AND HIS CHURCH

Editorial and Publication Office, Eaton Road, Tunkhannock, Pa.

 

 

Story of the Week

 

 

 

Justice and Episcopal Leaders
Express Views on Amendment

‘A' Justice William 0. Douglas
of the Supreme Court, ques-
tioned in Minneapolis about the
“Becker amendment” to permit
prayers and Bible-reading in
the public schools, said the
people can adopt such a consti—
tutional change if they want “a
partial union of church and
state in this country.”

But before acting on "the pro-
iosed revision of the first
amendment, he said, Americans
should first look at other coun—
tries which have state religions
and then consider the second-
class status which is accorded
minority religions under such
circumstances.

Justice Douglas held that if
any religious group were to
secure control of the schools its
prayers would be installed as
the “official” prayers.

The house judiciary commit-
tee is currently hearing testi-
mony on the so-called “Becker
amendment” —— introduced by
Rep. Frank J. Becker (R.—N.Y.)
and other bills which would re-

verse the court’s r u l in g s
through constitutional amend-
ment.

For a prayer amendment to
become part of the constitution
it would be necessary for both
branches of Congress. to sup-
port it and for three-fourths of
the legislatures of the 50 states
to endorse it within. seven
years.

In an
NIAY 21, 1964

interview, Justice

Douglas said he saw no incon-,

sistency in the fact that al—
though the court ruled against
official prayers in the schools
the US. made official refer—
ences to God on its coins and
currency and the national an—
them.

A reporter had asked about
the “consistency” of court rul—
ings against such practices, plus
the employment of chaplains by
the Congress itself.

Such things, he said, are “an
accurate description of the kind
of a free society that we have.”

“We are a nation under
God,” he added.
Justice Douglas voted with

the majority in the two key
prayer cases — the 1962 de-
cision which found the 22-word
non-sectarian prayer composed
by the New York regents to be
unconstitutional, and the Lord’s
Prayer-Bible—reading laws in—
volving the Philadelphia and
Baltimore school systems which
were ruled unconstitutional last
June.

The trouble with the official
New York prayer, he said, was
that it failed to be acceptable to
all religions.

He disagreed that such a
“non-sectarian” prayer could be
voluntary in any classroom
where a single child of Jewish,
Roman Catholic or any other
faith might be alone in ab-
staining from participation.

“You know children,” he said.

“They don’t like to ‘oe con—

sidered oddballs.”
I Episcopalians Testify

A number of Episc0palians
have testified before the com—
mittee, all in opposition to the
Becker amendment. A m o n g
them were Bishop Mosley of
Delaware and Bishop Creighton
of Washington.

Though the church has not
taken an official stand on the
church-state c o n t 1' o v e r s y,
several other Episcopalians
have spoken against enactment
of the proposed amendment.

One of the first to do so was
Charles H. Tuttle, New York
attorney and a member of the
five-man commission on church
and state of the Episcopal
Church.

Mr. Tuttle, testifying as gen-
eral counsel of the National
Council of Churches, presented
to the committee a legal an—
alysis of the amendment. He
stated that it would seriously
affect not only the first amend—
ment, which since 1791 has pro-
hibited Congress from making
any law “respecting an. estab—
lishment of religion,” but would
affect the fifth and fourteenth
amendments as well.

Wilbur G. Katz, chairman of
the Episcopal commission and
law professor at the University
of Wisconsin, agreed.

“The objection to regular
prayers or devotional reading in
public schools,” Katz told the
committee, “is not met by mere-
ly excusing those who do not
wish to participate. Making

Three

 




 

 

 

 

excuses available does not make
the program truly voluntary.”

The Wisconsin law professor
further stated that a pupil who
has to withdraw from group de-
votions “loses caste with his
fellows, and is liable to be re-
garded with aversion and sub-
jected to reproach and insult.”

In a letter to hep. Emanuel
Celler (D—N. Y.), chairman of
the house committee, two other
Episcopal bishops have asserted
their opposition to the amend-
ment.

BishOp John. E. Hines of
Texas, and Bishop Thomas A.
Fraser, coadjutor of North
Carolina, underscored their be-
liefs that the Supreme Court
decisions made last June “are
not hostile to religion and it is
no proper function of govern—
ment to inculcate religious be-
liefs or habits of worship.

“ . . . Nothing in these de-
cisions,” they added, “forbids
the offering of prayers on pub-
lic occasions such as inaugura—
tions . . . and therefore We be-

lieve that the proposed amend-
ment should not be adopted.

At the time that the Supreme
Court ruled compulsory Bible—
reading and prayers to be un-
constitutional, Presiding Bishop
Arthur Lichtenberger, placed
his full support behind the de—
cisions.

“We may be thankful,” he
said, “that the constitution does
not permit the government to
define and give preference to
some general version of Chris—
tianity 01’0f J udeo-Christian re-
ligion.”

Bishop Lichtenberger cau-
tioned that the Supreme Court’s
decisions should not be seen as
“hostile to religion” but as a re-
flection of the court’s “sense of
responsibility to assure freedom
and equality for all groups of
believers and non-believers.”

The leading Episcopal church-
man also pointed out that “the
court does not rule out objec-
tive study of religion in public
schools; indeed the court en-
courages such study.”

Aid to Mississippi Project
Asked of Overseas Church

* In a history-making de-
cision, the division of inter-
church aid, refugee, and world
service of the World Council of
Churches has voted to seek
worldwide support for a project
in the United States. The pro-
ject of aid and reconciliation,
sponsored, by the National Coun-
cil of Churches, is in the Mis-
SlSSlppi Delta.

Meeting in Geneva, the
executive committee voted to
appeal to member churches for
personnel and $160,000 as a
first contribution for the long-
range project. The appeal is to
supplement funds and personnel
provided by US. churches.

.Representatives of Mississip-
p1 churches and their super-

Four

Visory bodies in the area will
be included on a national com-
mittee being formed to marshal
“competence and resources” and
give guidance to the work.

The general board of the Na—
tional Council of Churches
voted in February to ask the
world body for assistance in its
project for direct relief for the
needy, literacy training, recon-
c1llation between racial groups,
and. community development.
Initiated by the commission on
rellgion and race, the project
will be administered by the di-
V1510n of home missions.

. Never before has the division
11sted a project in America for
support by churches around the
world. It has channeled mil-
lions of dollars from churches

 

for projects in Europe, Asia,
Africa, and Latin America.

The appeal for world support
pointed out that. churches of
the United States have partici—
pated in such ministries in
other parts of the would, send—
ing funds and personnel.

“It is equally fitting that the
World Council of Churches be
involved in the meeting of
needs in America." the general
board declared.

“This represents a new and
important departure in the
realm of interchurch aid and
ecumenical solidarity,” tev. Dr.
Visser ’t Hooft. (leneva, gen—
eral secretary of the WCC, says.

According to the council’s ap—
peal, Visser ’t llool't says, it is
“not because I'S. churches
have been unable to meet ma-
terial and spiritual needs of the
Mississippi Delta.” lather, he
said, it is because they desire
“that sister churches in other
areas should he involved in
meeting this great need and
they wish to profit by the expe—
rience of other (‘hristians who
have ministered in areas Of
great tension.”

“From the point of view of
the ecumenical movement we
are deeply grateful for this ac—
tion of the churches in the USA
which gives evidence of then“
deep spiritual awareness of the
truth that the ecumenical attl-
tude is to be ready to receive as
well as to give and which thus
renders witness to the UH?
meaning of interchurch aid,’
the general secretary said.

In New York the Rev. R. H.
Edwin Espy, general secretary
of the National Council of
Churches, expressed gratitude
for “the participation of the
World Council of Churches as a
manifestation of the interde-
pendence and common respon-
sibility of Christians around the
world.”

The Rev. Jon L. Regier, New
YOI‘k, director of the diviswn
of home missions, says the
Delta, ministry will renew and

THE WITNESS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

extend its previous efforts in
community development “in
critical areas where affluence,
poverty, and civil rights are
linked.”

The ministry to peOple of the
area requires substantial sums
of money and “calls for per-
sons of great skill in dealing
with conflict situations.”

Social Issues are Stressed
At Methodist Conference

1k The Methodist General Con—
ference ended its two-week
quadrennial meeting in Pitts-
burgh with a strong statement
of its concern for social issues
and avoidance of an equally
strong declaration on church
and state relationships.

Some 850 delegates rejected
consideration of the so—called
Becker amendment to the US.
constitution which would per-
mit prayers and Bible readings
in public schools and elsewhere.
The close vote on this was 341
to 389, with many abstentions,
and the proposal was referred
back to committee.

Noted for concern for social
issues, the Methodists reaf-
firmed many historic positions.
But they referred back to their
board of social concerns a
lengthy church and state docu—
ment since it contained many
controversial matters which
they felt could not be discussed
properly because of insufficient
time.

Delegates rejected a minority
recommendation that the con-
ference “commend” Protestants
and Other Americans. United for
Separation of Church and State
forits efforts “to preserve the
principle of separation of church
and state.”

They did this despite the
insistence of the Rev. Harold
Bosley of New York for “the
need for continued vigilance” in
this area.

The Rev. Roy H. Nichols of
Oakland, Calif., asserted that
POAU was “not bigoted” and
was an organization “that will

MAY 21, 1964

speak out on issues where no
one else will.”

But the Rev. Albert C. Out-
ler of the Perkins School of
Theology, Dallas, "said ‘POAU
“was not really concerned with
vigilance, but with vigilantism,”
and urged rejection of any en—
dorsement of it.

Into the crowded docket in
the clOsing hours of the meet-
ing, the social concerns board
inserted a number of state-
ments outlining the position of
the Methodist Church in vari—
ous areas.

One said, “It is our judgment
that policies of isolation toward
mainland. China. and Cuba
should be carefully 're-examined

. to determine whether their con—
i‘tinuance will not intensify bit-
"terness, and imprison rather

than free the people". in those
lands from hardships, repres-
s‘ion and authoritarian cont.rol ”
Without oppos1t10n

A statement reaffirmed
Methodist support of birth con-
trol. “We reaffirm the princi—
ple {of responsible parenthood,”
it said. Each married couple
has the right and the duty
prayerfully and responsibly to
control conception according to
the circumstances of their mar-

triage.

Married couples are free

Within the limits of Christian

conscience to use those means
of birth control which meet the
approval of the medical pro-
fession.

“We find no moral distinction
between periodic continence and
the various types of contracep-
tion now available.”

It urged churches to counsel
married couples on the principle
of “responsible parenthood,” to
support public policies which
make available birth control ad-
vice and. means to women on
public welfare who wish to limit
their offspring.

The conference did not speak
directly on medicare but re—
iterated its concern for aged
needy with respect to medical
attention. It said: “Our nation—
al resources should be mobilized
to furnish health services to
those in need. The principle
and use of prepayment of health
insurance is good. Subsidies
and administrative coordination
by private, federal and state
governmental agencies may be
necessary to care for unmet
needsf’

An approved document sur—
veyed issues of war and peace
and reiterated Methodist posi-
tions in support of disarma-
ment, civil defense, self-deter:
mination of nations, and the
UN.

It said that “freedom to
travel and choose one’s place of

"residence is a basic human

right” and recommended “a
continual re—examination of the
immigration laws of the na—
tions in the light of this. free-
dom.’

The conference approved a
resolution on the film, radio and
television industries “to en-
courage the best and discourage-
the worst” in programming.

Freedom of expression should
be exercised within a .rame—
work. of responsibility, it
stressed. ‘

“The church must oppose pre-
censorship of an artistic ex-.
pression, but should insist that
the artist-producer remain sub-.
ject to punitive action by the
courts for violation of laws;
against obscenity and porno-5
graphy.” ,

It urged the church “to de—3
vise creative ways” of relating;
itself to the entertainment in-%
dustry. '

Five

 




 

 

 

An amendment which would
have provided for a trial on
charges of maladministration of

eventualities.
Book of Worship

any pastor or bishop “refusing A revised Book of Worship,
church’s in-
creased interest in the liturgy
and replacing a 1944 edition,

admission to any service of wor-
ship by reason of race, color or
national origin, or aiding in
such refusal” was tabled on the was adopted-
grounds that already existing

reflecting the

legislation cares for such

The trend toward more litur-

 

 

THREE NEW ISSUES!

   

The New Manual of Intercession ONLY
, 4 , 25¢
MAKE EACH

  
 

HIS NAME GLORIOUS

TRINITY SUNDAY TO ADVENT

     
   

 

TH REE ISSUES
Trinity Sunday to St. James
St. James to Michaelmas

Michaelmas to Advent

ORDER NOW TO ASSURE DELIVERY
CASH WITH ORDER PLEASE

A manual of prayer for the World Mission of the Church
. according to the seasons of the Christian Year. Based on
lessons of the Daily Ofﬁce and the Anglican Cycle of Prayer.

Texts prepared by the Rev. Massey H. Shepherd, Jr.
and the- Rev. Eric W. Jackson

20 copies on I

.jIVIsION OF WORLD MISSION

$5 00 “1055 Taylor St, San Francisco, Calif. .941 Q8

 

Six

 

gy in, the denomination, how-
ever, does not mean that. it is
becoming a “high church,” eX-
plained Dr. Emory S. Bucke,
book editor of the Methodist
Publishing House in Nashville,
Tenn., which will produce the
new volume.

“This is a guide including
many orders of worship, but
the minister retains his free-
dom and no one can order him
to use any of it,” he pointed
out. Methodist ministers are
free to use any form of worship
and are not restricted to the
official Methodist Book of Wor-
ship.

Dr. Bucke said the revision
“will bring new dignity to serv-
ices — where the local pastor
will use it, but of course it
won’t when he won’t.”

The book takes a more con-
temporan apprm [Cl] to m ost of
the services, iites and sacra—
ments of the Methodist Church.
It also marks the first time that
a Methodist Book of Worship
has adopted the revised stand-
ard version of the Bible for
scripture reading and quota-
tions.

Explaining some of the re-
visions, Dr. Bucke said the new
book provides for a more
ritualistic marriage service, a
“return of burial services to the
church where they belong,” a
new emphasis on prayers for
the ailing and dying, and “new
attention to the Christian year
with the colors of the season
and holy days of the calendar.”

“The prayers for the sick,”
he said, “come closer than. any-
thing we have ever had to the
matter of spiritual healing.”

Another innovation permits
1aymen on special occasions to
distribute the communion ele-
ments to church membels in
their pews, in addition to the
regular selving by ministers at
the communion table.

Dr. Bucke said the book’s
firSt printing will be “at least”
100,000 copies.

THE WITNESS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

.«E DITaO-RVIALS .g

Triple Revolution

And Government .

OUR ISSUE for May 7 devoted four and a half
pages to the manifesto called the Triple Revolu-
tion and we are giving about the same space this
week to conclude the document. Backfire has a
letter received from W. H. Ferry, chairman of
the ad hoc committee responsible for the mani-
festo. He is vice-chairman of the Center for the
which was
created some years ago by the Fund for the Be—
At the Center in. Santa Barbara, Cal-

ifornia, a group of distinguished scientists de-

Study of Democratic Institutions
public.

vote full time to trying to figure out What is
wrong with our world and what can be done
about it.

Triple Revolution is the work of these men
and was released over the signatures of thirty-
two persons as an ad hoc committee, meaning
according to the dictionary a committee “created
for a special purpose” -— in this case to end
poverty.

We give all the space we have done in this
number and that of May 7 because we think it
is of vital importance and should be the concern
of every church person who has even a slight
understanding of the religious doctrine of man.
We hope therefore, as Dr. Ferry says, that it
will be used in study groups and conferences -——
what more provocative material could be used in
the numerous summer gatherings that are about
to get under way?

I. F. Stone, in dealing with this manifesto in
his Weekly, reminded his readers that President
Johnson’s war on. poverty was not the first but
the third attempt to end poverty. ‘

The first was the social security system; the
second the employment act of 1946 but with both
passing Congress with such compromises that
neither did the job their advocates had hoped.

Social Security is not a means of redistributing

income, financed by taxes on wealth. It is fin-

, anced by payroll levies on workers and employers

resulting in an inadequate dole against unemploy-

' -ment and old age —'—. not a guaranteed minimum

subsistence for everybody.

So too the idea of economic planning for full
employment, which the act of 1946 was intended
to embody, was so amended before passage that
it became ineffective.

We now have Mr. Johnson’s war which of
course we are going to hear a lot about before
election day. And perhaps the first question. to
be raised is the one asked by the signers of this
manifesto in their letter to the President, is not
the program “bound to fall short?”

The administration’s program is based on the
assumption. that poverty is peripheral because
only on this basis can it be fought with minimum
disturbance to the dominant business community
with its myths about free enterprise.

Thus federal planners, according to the Wall
Street Journal, have already revised the plan for
curing the economic and social ills of the Appa-
lachia area. There is now less emphasis. on wel—
fare, a diminished federal role by providing only
enough public activity to build a framework for
private business to function.

The changes, according to the administration
strategists, strongly boost its chances to get
approval of Congress. Says one official of an
agency working on the plan: “It’s watered down,
but adding water can make medicine more palat-
able.”

It is clearly a case, in spite of all the fine
words, of poverty playing second fiddle to private
business.

Dr. Ferry and his group say in effect that
poverty in. the United States is not peripheral
but is due to inadequate demand. And their pro-
gram to meet the triple revolution in cybernatics,
weaponry and human rights is spelled out, point
by point, with hammering blows. '

Study it ~—--— get others to study it — get dis-
turbed.

 




 

 

 

 

 

‘ THE TRIPLE REVOLUTION

MANIFESTO DRAWN UP BY AN AD HOC

COMMITTEE HEADED BY DR. W. H. FERRY,

VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE CENTER FOR THE

STUDY or DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS.

MAY 7 HAD FIRST HALF OF DOCUMENT

AS A FIRST STEP to a new consensus it is es—
sential to recognize that the traditional link be-
tween jobs and incomes is being broken. The
economy of abundance can sustain all citizens in
comfort and economic security whether or not
they engage in what is commonly reckoned as
work. Wealth produced by machines rather than
by men is still wealth. We urge, therefore, that
society, through its appropriate legal and
governmental institutions, undertake an un-
qualified commitment to provide every individual
and every family with an adequate income as a
matter of right. This undertaking we consider
to be essential to the emerging economic, social
and political order in this country. We regard it
as the only policy by which the quarter of the
nation now dispossessed and soon—to-be dis-
possessed by lack of employment can be brought
within the abundant society. The unqualified
right to an income would take the place of the
patchwork of welfare measures — from unem-
ployment insurance to relief —— designed to en-
sure that no citizen or resident of the United
States actually starves.

We do not pretend to visualize all of the con-
sequences of this change in our values. It is
clear, however, that the distribution of abundance
in a cybernated society must be based» on criteria
strikingly different from those of an. economic
system based on scarcity. In retrospect, the
establishment of the right to an income will
prove to have been only the first step in the re-
construction of the value system of our society
brought on by the triple revolution.

The present system encourage-s activities
which can lead to private profit and neglects
those activities which can enhance the wealth
and the quality of life of our society. Conse-
quently national policy has hitherto been aimed
Eight

far more at the welfare of the productive process
than at the welfare of peOple. The era of cyber-
nation can reverse this emphasis. With public
policy and research concentrated on people rather
than processes we believe that many creative
activities and interests commonly thought of as
non-economic will absorb the time and the
commitment of many of those no longer needed
to produce goods and services. Society as a
whole must encourage new modes of construc-
tive, rewarding and ennobling activity. Princi-
pal among these are activities such as teaching
and learning that relate people to people rather
than people to things. Education has never been
primarily conducted for profit in cur society; it
represents the first and most obvious activity
inviting the expansion of the public sector to
meet the needs of this period of transition.

We are not able to predict the long-1‘un
patterns of human activity and commitment in
a nation when fewer and fewer people are in-
volved in production of goods and services, 1101"
are we able to forecast the overall patterns of
income distribution that will replace those of
the past full employment system. llowever, these
are not speculative and fanciful matters to be
contemplated at leisure for a society that may
come into existence in three or four generations.
The outlines of the future press sharply into the
present. The problems of joblessness, inade-
quate incomes, and frustrated lives confront US
now; the American Negro, in his rebellion, as-
serts the demands —— and the rights — of all the
disadvantaged. The Negro’s is the most insistent
voice today, but behind him stand the millions
of impoverished who are beginning to under-
stand that cybernation, properly understood and

used, is the road out of want and toward a decent
life.

THE WITNESS

 

 




 

 

The Transition

WE RECOGNIZE that the drastic alterations in
circumstances and in our way of life ushered in
by cybernation and the economy of abundance
will not be completed overnight. Left to the
ordinary forces of the market such change, how-
ever, will involve physical and psychological
misery and perhaps political chaos. Such misery
is already clearly evident among the unemployed,
among relief clients into the third generation and
more and more among the young and the old for
whom society appears to hold no promise of
dignified or even stable lives. We must develop
programs for this transition designed to give
hope to the dispossessed and those cast out by
the economic system, and to provide a basis for
the rallying of people to bring about those
changes in political and social institutions which
are essential to the age of technology.

The program here suggested is not intended
to be inclusive but rather to indicate its neces-
sary scope. We propose:

G A massive program to build up our educa—
tional system, designed especially with the needs
of the chronically under—educated in mind. We
estimate that tens of thousands of employment
opportunities in such areas as teaching and re-
search and development, particularly for younger
people, may be thus created. Federal programs
looking to the training of an. additional 100,000
teachers annually are needed.

0 Massive public works. The need is to de-
velop and put into effect programs of public
works to construct dams, reservoirs, ports, water
and air pollution facilities, community recreation
facilities. We estimate that for each $1 billion
per year spent on public works 150,000 to
200,000 jobs would be created. $2 billion or more
a year should be spent in this way, preferably as
matching funds aimed at the relief of economic-
ally distressed or dislocated areas.

0 A massive program of low-cost housing, to
be built both publicly and privately, and aimed
at a rate of 700,000-1,000,000 units a year.

0 Development. and financing of rapid transit

 

 

This view of the transitional period is not shared by
all the signers. Robert Theobald and James Boggs hold
that the two major principles of the transitional period
will be (1) that machines rather than men will take up
new conventional work openings and (2) that the ac-
tivity of men will be directed‘ to new forms of “work”
and “leisure.” Therefore, in their opinion the specific
proposals outlined in this section are more suitable for
meeting the problems of the scarcity-economic system

than for advancing through the period of transition.

into the period of abundance.
MAY 21, 1964

systems, urban and interurban; and other pro»
grams to cope with the spreading problems of
the great metropolitan centers.

0 A public power system built on the abund-
ance of coal in. distressed areas, designed for low—
cost power to heavy industrial and residential
sections.

0 Rehabilitation of obsolete military bases
for community or educational use.

0 A major revision of our tax structure
aimed at redistributing income as well as ap-
portioning the costs of the transition period
equitably. To this end an expansion of the use
of excess profits tax would be important. Sub-
sidies and tax credit plans are required to ease
the human suffering involved in the transition
of many industries from manpower to machine—
power.

0 The trade unions can play an important and
significant role in this period in a number of
ways:

a. Use of collective bragaining to negotiate
not only for people at work but also for those
thrown out of work by technological change.

b. Bargaining for perquisites such as housing,
recreational facilities, and similar programs as
they have negotiated health and welfare pro—
grams.

c. Obtaining a voice in the investment of the
unions’ huge pension and welfare funds, and in-
sisting on investment policies which have as
their major criteria the social use and function
of the enterprise in which the investment is
made. ‘
d. Organization of the unemployed so that
these voiceless people may once -more be given
a voice in their own economic destinies, and
strengthening of the campaigns to organize
white-collar and professional workers.

0 The use of the licensing power of govern—
ment to regulate the speed and direction of
cybernation to minimize hardship; and the use of
minimum wage power as well as taxing powers
to provide the incentives for moving as rapidly
as possible toward the goals indicated by this
paper.

These suggestions are in no way intended to
be complete or definitively formulated. They
contemplate expenditures of several billions
more each year than are now being spent for
socially rewarding enterprises, and a larger role
for the government in the economy than it has
now or has been given except in times of crisis.
In our opinion, this is a time of crisis, the crisis

Nine

 




 

 

 

 

 

of a triple revolution. Public philosophy for the
transition must rest on. the conviction that our
economic, social and political institutions exist
for the use of man and that man does not exist
to maintain a particular economic system. This
philosophy centers on an understanding that
governments are instituted among men, for the
purpose of making possible life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness and that government should
be a creative and positive instrument toward
these ends.

Change Must Be Managed

THE HISTORIC DISCOVERY of the post-world
war two years is that the economic destiny of
the nation can be managed. Since the debate
over the Employment Act of 1946 it has been
increasingly understood that the Federal Govern-
ment bears primary responsibility for the eco-
nomic and social well-being of the country. The
essence of management is planning. The demo—
cratic requirement is planning by public bodies
for the general welfare. Planning by private
bodies such as corporations for their own wel-
fare does not automatically result in additions to
the general welfare, as the impact of cyberna—
tion on jobs has already made clear.

The hardships imposed by sudden changes in

technology have been acknowledged by Congress

in proposals for dealing with the long- and short-
run “dislocations”, in legislation for depressed
and “impacted” areas, retaining of workers re-
placed by machines, and the like. The measures
so far proposed have not been “transitional” in
conception. Perhaps for this reason they have
had little effect on. the situations they were de-
signed to alleviate. But the primary weakness
of this legislation is not ineffectiveness but in-
coherence. In no way can these disconnected
measures be seen as a plan for remedying deep

ailments but only, so to speak, as the superficial
treatment of surface wounds.

Planning agencies should constitute the net-
work through which pass the stated needs of the
people at every level of society, gradually build—
ing into a national inventory of human require-

ments, arrived at by democratic debate of elected
representatives.

The primary tasks of the appropriate planning
institutions should be:

— to collect the data necessary to appraise the
effects, soc1al and economic, of cybernation at
different rates of innovation;

—— to recommend ways, by public and private
Ten I

 

initiative, of encouraging and stimulating cyber-

nation ;

— to work toward optimal allocations of

human and natural resources in meeting the re-

quirements of society;

—— to develop ways to smooth the transition
from a society in which the norm is full employ-
ment within an. economic system based on
scarcity, to one in which the norm will be either
non-employment, in the traditional sense of pro-
ductive work, or employment on the great
variety of socially valuable but “non-productive”
tasks made possible by an economy of abund-
ance; to bring about the conditions in which men
and women no longer needed to produce goods
and services may find their way to a variety of
self-fulfilling and socially useful occupations.

— to work out alternatives to defense and re-
lated spending that will commend themselves to
citizens, entrepreneurs and workers as a more
reasonable use of common resources.

— to integrate domestic and international
planning. The technological revolution has re-
lated Virtually every major domestic problem to
a world problem. The vast inequities between
the industrialized and the under-developed coun—
tries cannot long be sustained. The aim through-
out will be the conscious and rational direction
of economic life by planning institutions under
democratic control.

In this changed framework the new planning
institutions will operate at every level of govern-
ment — local, regional and federal —— and will be
organized to elicit democratic participation in all
their proceedings. These bodies will be the
means for giving direction and content to the
growing demand for improvement in all dep‘art‘
ments of public life. The planning institutions
will show the way to turn the growing protest
against ugly cities, polluted air and water, an
inadequate educational system, disappearing“
recreational and material resources, low levels of
medical care, and the haphazard economic de-
velopment into an integrated effort to raise the
level of general welfare.

We are encouraged by the record of the plan-
ning institutions both of the Common Market
and of several European nations and believe that
this country can benefit from studying their
weaknesses and strengths.

A principal result of planning will be to 813.913
up investment in the public sector. Greater 1h-
Vestment in this area is advocated because it IS
overdue, because the needs. in this sector com-
prise a substantial part of the content of the

THE WITNESS

ﬂ-

. ,_,.5

I “.4,
Asﬁfrliﬁ “2:. -:




,3 ﬁ” #44. ext—‘4),

general welfare, and because they can be readily
afforded by an abundant society. Given the
knowledge that we are now in a period of transi-
tion it would be deceptive, in our opinion, to
present such activities as likely to produce full
employment. The efficiencies of cybernation
should be as much sought in the public as in the
private sector, and a chief focus of planning
would be one means of bringing this about. A
central assumption of planning institutions
would be the central assumption of this state-
ment, that the nation is moving into a society in
which production of goods and services is not
the only or perhaps the chief means of distri—
buting income.

Democratization of Change

THE REVOLUTION in weaponry gives some dim
promise that mankind may finally eliminate
institutionalized force as the method of settling
international conflict and find for it political and
moral equivalents leading to a better world. The
Negro revolution signals the ultimate admission
of this group to the American community on
equal social, political and economic terms. The
cybernation revolution proffers an existence
qualitatively richer in democratic as well as

GOOD MOTHER; BAD

material values. A social order in which men
make the decisions that shape their lives be-
comes more possible now than ever before; the
unshackling of men from the bonds of unfulfill-
ing labor frees them to become citizens, to make
themselves and to make their own history.

But these enhanced promises by no means
constitute a guarantee. Illuminating and making
more possible the “democratic vistas” is one
thing; reaching them is quite another, for a
vision of democratic life is made real not by
technolOgical change but by men consciously
moving toward that ideal and creating institu-
tions that will realize and nourish the vision in
living form.

Democracy, as we use the term, means a
community of men and women who are able to
understand, express and determine their lives
as dignified human beings. Democracy can only
be rooted in a political and economic order in
which wealth is distributed by and for people,
and used for the widest social benefit. With
the emergence of the era of abundance we have
the economic base for a true democracy of par-
ticipation, in which men no longer need to feel
themselves prisoners of social forces and deci-
sions beyond their control or comprehension.

NURSE

By Hugh McCandless
Rector of the Epiphany, New York
A FEW WORDS ABOUT OTHER ANGLI-
CANS WHO ARE DOING JOBS WITHOUT
MUCH SUPPORT FROM OUR PARISHES

THIS IS a sort of love song to the Anglican com-
munion. Of all the churches of the world, it is
perhaps for its size the most fertile mother and
the most haphazard nurse. It has begotten many
children, and adopted several more, and most of
them are in rags.

This is. because we are a church of rugged in-
dividualists. We are proud of the pageantry and
the decent traditions of Canterbury, so when. we
migrate we are very apt to take our church with
us. So we have had the handicap, during the
American revolution, of being thought too Eng-
lish. Our churches in Japan and Africa are
thought too European, and too insufferably
Yankee in Latin America. Our church in Jeru-
salem is too Arab. Believe it or not, in Borneo

MAY 21, 1964

it may be thought too Chinese, and in Taiwan it
is certainly too Japanese.

We are individualistic to the point of being
parochial. My uncle once drove me past four
churches on six miles of the same road in Wilt—
shire: all kept open, all almost empty. He said
they were not even aware of the existence of the
others. This is somewhat true of all Episcopali-
ans. We think of our own history and are bliss-
fully unaware of dioceses where parishes are a
thousand miles apart. Our American church
languished under this indifference for half its
history; no one in power ever thought of sending
us bishops. Now we have bishops all over the
World, so you might say we got over that mis-
take. But we have archbishOps in. Asia who

Eleven

 




 

 

 

 

don’t have secretaries; we have bishops in islands
far away who don’t even own typewriters; we
have theological seminaries with libraries of
forty old books. The presiding bishop of our
church in Japan travels in the crowded third
class railway cars, because his church cannot af—
ford any other transportation for him.

When we do think of it, we are proud of our
world-Wide distribution, but we should not forget
how thin that distribution is. Those optimistic
maps that show the Anglican communion over
the world do not indicate that often our people
are a few hundredths of one percent of the popu—
lation. If we have two or three tiny, shaky
churches in a small country, our mapmakers color

the whole country a cheerful red, marking it off
as “ours.”

Other Anglicans

VAST DISTANCES make us even more ignorant
of each other. Canon Johnson took hundreds of
pictures on his two year trip around the world,
preparing his book “Globel Odyssey.” They show
that we have vestrymen in grass skirts, that we
have Anglicans who dance in honor of Easter.
We have bishops and priests of every race and
nation. In Hong Kong we have more church
schools there than we do in New York City. They
are good schools, too; so good that if a secular
school is started, it is called St. Wong’s or St.
Yang’s to give it prestige. See clergymen who
work as sanitation engineers to keep body and
soul together. See the marvelous Melanesian
Brotherhood -— hundreds of powerful young men,
living temporarily as monks, daring the razor-
sharp reefs to bring Christianity to the islands,
adored as we would adore astronauts. This shoe-
string, do-it-yourself diocese of Melanesia, be-
cause of these men, has a quarter as many over—
seas missionaries as the ninety dioceses of the
American Episcopal Church.

Lack of Support

OUR CHURCH, almost everywhere but in Eng-
land and the United States, is over-extended and
under—supported. The sacrifices of our mission-
aries are glorious: that we so calmly accept these
sacrifices is shameful. We must drop our indif-
ference, for the sake of our souls if for
reason.

There are other reasons. We should be start-
ing technical schools to obviate the problems that
arise when only Europeans have
take managerial posts in

no other

the training to
growing industries.

Twelve

There are a thousand crying needs, but there is
I hope many of you will read Canon
Johnson’s book. It will make you proud, and it
will make you impatient.

no money.

There is something in the Anglican tradition
that defies description. It is akin to the British
refusal to admit defeat, which stood our free
world in such good stead during the battle of
Britain, when more logical people faced the facts
and gave up. This illogical characteristic pro-
duces miracles, as St. Paul says, “in patience, in
labors, in fastings; as unknown, and yet well
known; as poor, yet making many rich; as having
nothing, and yet possessing all things.” But it
is simply wicked for us to expect miracles when
we do nothing ourselves to deserve them.

This parish, in this location, is itself a mission-
ary work. Every week, about eight new people
come here to church. lut it is very easy to make
this a very comfortable kind of missionary work,
to talk about reaching out without making any
real effort. And it is very easy for the people we
do reach, and we reach almost all of them, to re-
gard this parish as a pleasant chapel-of—ease, a
welcoming, well-lighted, well heated place, a place
to attend for as long as one lives in this neigh-
borhood, a place that offers good music and inter-
esting 131'0grams and the rest. It ought to offer
more. It ought to offer a chance to participate In
a worldwide church, to share in the sacrificial
work of our missionaries overseas. It ought to
offer a chance to be more than spectators.

Concern For Others

I AM ALWAYS so encouraged when someone I
call on says, “I shall be living here only a short
time, but I want to support the work while I am
here. Can I have envelopes, or make a subcrlp“

tion, for less than a year?” The answer is YES,
of course.

I am particularly honored to have been allowed
to dedicate a memorial whose donor realizes that
the work of the parish also awaits outside these
four walls; that the true concern of a pal‘lsh 15
not itself, but the church; and that the concern
of the church is not itself, but the world. 0111”
communion, at its best, is simply a living out Of
St. Augustine’s principles: in essentials, unity:
in non-essentials, liberty and enormous divers1tY;
in all things, charity.

Now charity is not a mere bland indifference
to others; it is an intelligent and disciplined gen—
erosity.

THE WITNESS

.m.., -..... km._._,,..~ ._ __ N.

 

 

 




 

 

 

I ASK Now THE BEASTS

By Marion L. Matics
Rector, Christ Church, Bay Ridge, New York City

BRUTAL PRACTICES ARE ALLOWED TO GO

ON

IN THE NAME OF SCIENCE WITH-

OUT ANYBODY DOING MUCH ABOUT IT

WE ARE INSTRUCTED, in the Book of Job, to
“Ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee;
and the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee;
or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee:
and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee.
Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of
the Lord hath wrought this? In whose hand is
the soul of every living thing, and the breath of
all mankind.”

In spite of this exhortation the Judaeo-Chris—
tian tradition has not often been interested in
a theology of animals. Whole libraries have
been written to tell us of angels, devils, and
various other supernatural beings, all of whom
may or may not have objective existence; but
both church and synagogue too frequently have
been lacking in comment upon the hoards of
living creatures whom God has created in amaz—
ing number and diversity to share the earth with
us. Surely God must have meant them for some
purpose, or, as Job indicates, to deliver some mes-
sage to us, or he need not have bothered with
their creation in the first place.

“God made the beast of the earth after his
kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing
that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and
God saw that it was good.” This is the first of
the lessons that the beasts can teach us, and
which Job had particularly in. mind: that our
God is the creator of all the wonders of the uni—
verse, and “in whose hand is the soul of every
living thing.” His wonders are greater than we
can appreciate or imagine, and a token. of their
diversity is the proliferation of animal life
upon this one little earth.

Be Not Anxious

THE SECOND of the lessons is perhaps the
example of trust in our universal Father, and
faith in the essential goodness of his creation,
which our Lord points out in the. Sermon on the
Mount. With a characteristic taste for pastoral

MAY 21, 1964

imagery he takes the world Of nature as his illus-
tration; and he gently rebukes his anxious disci-
ples, so burdened with worries. and fears of the
future that the present slips between their
fingers; and he uphold-s the creature-s of nature
as demonstrating a superior way. “Behold the
fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do
they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your
heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much
better than they?”

The third of the lessons which the beasts can
teach us may be summed up in Albert Schweit-
zer’s wonderful phrase, “reverence for life.”
This high ethical ideal is the clear implication of
the Old Testament respect for every being which
God created and found good, and it follows
irrevocably from the teachings of the Messiah of
Nazareth who told his disciples that love was
the primary obligation of life, and that those
who were cruel and brutal in their behavior
would be given occasion to reconsider in ever-
lasting fire. .

Although Oriental religions have placed great-
er emphasis upon God’s non-human. creation, this
is doubtlessly due to historical circumstances and
the humanistic temper of the family of religions
to which Christianity belongs, rather than to any
fundamental failing. Theories of reincarnation
are not necessary as a reason for being kind,
and, in historical fact, the cult of the family pet
probably has done as much good for animals as
the religious veneration of certain species in the
east.

In any case, kindness is clearly the teaching
of Jesus, and it is obvious that those who give
themselves. up to cruelty and brutality in any
situation bring spiritual disaster upon them-
selves and upon anyone who falls under their in-
fluence. After all of these centuries of Chris—
tian teaching, one might have thought that such
a platitude could be taken. for granted: yet the
plain truth remains that we humans are not

Thirteen

 




 

 

 

 

satisfied just to torture one another —— by crime,
by exploitation, and by war —— but, in addition,
we must torture those poor, helpless, mute, and
inoffensive creatures whose presence on this
earth is a delight to God.

“The era of big science is new,” writes Cleve—
land Amory in a Saturday Evening Post article
that has. attracted phenomenal attention, “but it
has already brought one hideous result — cruelty
to animals on a staggering scale. In the labora-
tories of the US. hospitals, medical schools and
industries an estimated 300,000,000 animals are
currently in use in every conceivable, and in
many cases inconceivable, way that can be de-
vised by the mind of man.”

If we go now to the beasts and ask that they
should teach us, their poor voices will fill the
air with hideous shrieks of pain. and horror; and
the message that they will teach us is that we,
as the superior creatures of the earth, are re-
sponsible for their torment and abuse.

Cruelty to Animals

LITERATURE of the Humane Society and
similar publications are filled with heart—rending
accounts and pathetic photographs of specific
instances which prove that mistreatment and
torture of animals under the guise of scientific
research is a daily occurrence. Amory tells of a
university experiment in which a group of dogs
were starved to death. Some of the dogs took
65 days to die, and when it was all over the re-
searchers discovered that exactly the same point-
less experiment had been performed three years
earlier.

At Harvard they forced dogs to inhale flames
for some allegedly scientific purpose, but the
so-called scientists did not get around to putting
the poor beasts out of their misery until four
or five days later.

In Dallas — a city of certain repute these
days — high school students have been. allowed
to practice surgery upon live animals; and there
is currently pending a bill in the N. Y. state
legislature to permit our high school students to
do the same. Personally, I would not wish to be
experimented upon by any high school student
that I have ever met, nor would I wish it for
my pet, nor for any homeless stray, nor would I
wish it for my worst enemy. If we wish to make
our youth insensitive and brutal, this the ideal
way.

The director of the national Catholic society
for animal welfare, appearing before a subcom-

F Ourteen

mittee of the House of Representatives, testi-
fied that in our most “respected” laboratories,
many of which are financed at government ex~
pense, the “atrocities are routine.” “Animals
are truly beaten, starved, burned, frozen, blinded,
drowned, forced to swim and run until they die,
accelerated, deprived of sleep, irradiated, skinned
and subjected to other methods of inducing pain
and fear in. infinite variety. Often they are
given little or no postexperimental care . . . . In
most cases they are simply returned to a wire-
bottom cage to suffer unattended.”

The woman who wrote these words was testi-
fying for a bill, not to do away with scientific
experimentation upon live animals, but one
simply to bring it under government control with
six points that one would think unobjectionable:
the licensing of scientists who experiment upon
vertebrate animals; the unannounced inspection
of all laboratory facilities; a provision requiring
that animals upon whom severe pain has been
inflicted should not be allowed to linger in agony
or be used over again; humane care and housing
according to government standards; the require-
ment that student work, as distinct from re-
search conducted by qualified scientists, be pain-
less; and that full records be kept of all such
experimentation.

This bill, sponsored by Senators Neuberger and
Clark, is based on legislation adopted in England
almost 90 years ago and which has not hindered
the development of English science in any man—
ner, shape or form.

AMA Objects

NONETHELESS, the American Medical Associa-
tion saw fit to object Violently: and, in reaction,
the usually mild and polite Christian. Century
lost its temper. Opponents of humane legislation
want “freedom to treat animals as they please,
even through neglect and cruelty. They want
freedom to play God in. deciding for themselves
how and when and in what way they will use
vertebrate animals for experimentation. That
kind of freedom does not belong to them, and a
society of responsible men has no right to grant
such freedom.”

Many other responsible newspapers and 30111“
nals voiced similar sentiments.

One other area which particularly needs
regulation is the practice of animal dealers who
sell to great scientific institutions. An especially
notorious incident concerned an animal farm 1n
Gainesville, Va., operated by Zoologicals World—

Tm: WITNESS

 




 

wide. Quoting the Washington. Evening Star:
“The animals were housed in a barn with no heat.
Windows were out, bitter Wind was Whipping
through there. They had no food and there was
no water for them. Dead cats, dogs, rabbits were
mixed with live ones. They were insane with
thirst and they fought like Wild things when
given water.”

The leading customer of Zoologicals Worldwide
turned out to be the national institutes of health,
which body is granted almost one billion dollars
a year by the federal government for research
purposes.

Another animal farm operating under inhuman
conditions, with 800 to 400 starving dogs, many
of whom were so weak that they could not stand,
recently was discovered at High Falls, N. Y.,
and its clients included not only United States
and N. Y. state government agencies, but also
Columbia University, New York University, Cor-
nell University, and two New York City hos-
pitals. h‘lany of these animals were found with
open and untreated wounds caused by experi—
mental surgery. It is common knowledge that
if your house pet is ever stolen, likely as not, it
will end up in, such a place.

Another type of legislation which seldom gets
passed, because of selfish pressure groups, in—
cludes desperately needed regulations for the
humane slaughter of meat animals. Painless
slaughter is possible at slight extra expense, but
the sickening and brutal practice continues
whereby heavy animals are shackled. to the ceil-
ing by one leg and then left to bleed to death;
that is, if their disection does not begin before
they are dead. Their pathetic cries fill the
slaughter house with horror, yet this is the fifth
year that a bill to prevent such barbarity has
been before the N. Y. state legislature.

How About Us?

WHAT KIND of Christians are we if we allow
God’s animal kingdom to be so tormented? What
kind of Christians are we if we allow cruel men.
to inflict every kind of torment and torture upon
those helpless and inoffensive creatures Who are
unable to speak for themselves. The answer is
that we will be like those Christians, so-called,
at Harmon-y, N. C., who under the auspices of
the American Legion celebrate Christmas by
allowing their children to take part in the annual
round-up of rabbits and to help in clubbing them
to death.

Surely when life must be taken, it must be

MAY 21, 1964

taken with sorrow and with regret. Even with
a sense of reverence: for it is God who created
animal life, and not ourselves. True, he gave us
certain privileges over the animals, but not the
privilege of being devils.

Incidentally, as to man’s superiority, is it not
ironic that those scientists who tell us that it
doesn’t matter how we treat God’s dumb crea-
tures are often the very ones who take greatest
glee in informing us that man himself is only a
part of the animal. kingdom? Irreverence breeds
irreverence, brutality breeds brutality: and Who
can deny that the use of scientific method and
technique without moral direction is virtually
the outstanding problem of the age?

One ponders, then, the advice of Job: “Ask
now the beasts, and they shall teach. thee.” What
shall they teach? They shall teach man’s re—
sponsibility to lesser beings. They shall teach
man’s responsibility to be kind. They shall teach
indirectly of God, “in Whose. hand is the soul of
every living thing, and the breath of all man—
kind.”

Or else they shall teach directly of man’s de-
gradation as he allows the choicest intellects of
his race to descend to Satanic levels of indiffer—
ence, cruelty, brutality, torment, and torture.

Talking It Over

By W. B. Spofford Sr.

ONLY SMALL SPACE is needed to tell you how
cybernation works (see page 8 this week and
page 11 of May 7). As little as two years ago
an investor could buy 6% bonds in. Teleregister
Corporation at a 25% discount.

On May 12, 1964 the American Exchange put
into operation a talking computer called Am-
Quote. A voice, clearly audible and in a purpose-
ful monotone, compares each sales price with
both the previous transaction and current bid-
asked prices. It even accepts or rejects sales
without any human being involved.

The system can. handle 72,000 calls each hour.
The human system handles 60,000 calls a day
with 80 telephone operators who supply verbal
quotations.

Add these 80 highly trained operators to the
army of unemployed.

John E. Parker, president of Teleregister, said
the talking computer marks “a new epoch in
stock market reporting.”

, . Fifteen

 




 

 

 

Plurality Of Education Hailed
As Priceless Asset in U.S.

* The continuing need for
both public and private institu-
tions of higher learning, and
the challenges presented to
education by the “explosion of
knowledge” were the twin
themes of speakers at day-long
dedication ceremonies at the
University of Notre Dame’s
new 13-story memorial library.

Two major speakers stressed
the plurality of the private-
public approach to college and
university education. They were
Dr. Grayson Kirk, president of
Columbia University, who ad-
dressed an outdoor academic
convocation; and Chancellor
Herman B. Wells of Indiana

University, who

banquet

Dr. Kirk praised the “price-
less assets of diversity between
publicly and privately supported
institutions, each complement-
ing the other and to their mu-
tual benefit.”

“Because the greatest days
for American higher education
still lie ahead, the greatest days
for America still lie ahead,” he
added.

Chancellor Wells stated he
had deep concern for the “wel—
fare, growth and vitality of
privately supported higher edu-
cation.” He hailed the Catholic
university’s new library for

spoke at a

 

 

Lay
Worker

Pensions

Is there a pension plan for salaried lay workers?

Yes! The Church Pension Plan for Lay Workers.

This Plan is being highly acclaimed and widely
adopted throughout the Church.

Y It is funded through Church Life, affiliate of
, The Church Pension Fund.

 

Sixteen

CHURGHiLHNElNSURANCE
CORPORATION

20 Exchange Place . New York, N.Y. 10005

“assuring Notre Dame a con-
tinued march onward and up-
ward to greater heights of '
teaching, research. and public
service.”

“Much of the academic free-
dom we enjoy in teaching and
research in both types of insti-
tutions is the result of our
plurality of governance, support
and mission,” he said. “So long
as we preserve this plurality,
we can in time of danger rally
in each othe1"s defense.

“I further believe that the

best days for privately sup-
ported higher education are
ahead. There could be no more
dramatic physical evidence of

my belief than the magnificance
of this new library building
made possible by a great pri-
vate foundation and the sacri—
ficial giving of those who be—
lieve in Notre Dame.”

Both speakers also stressed
that educators must understand
and adapt to the changes taking
place in the process of educa—
tion as a result of the explosion
of knowledge, which Dr. Kirk
called “an intellectual sorcerer’s
apprentice.”

“I refer of course,” he said,
“to the sudden, almost unbeliev-
able growth, in our generation,
Of the sheer quantum of human
knowledge.”

This new knowledge must be ,
coped with by the universities
if they are to be “the, power
stations from which our socie-

 

Are you looking for a spot where
you can bring your family for a well—
earned vacation . . . A spot where
there is a minimum of commercial-
and an opportunity to relax
With your family?

ism,

YMCA TROUT LODGE
may be what you are looking
for. Located 80 miles south
of St. Louis.
Information: YMCA Trout Lodge, 1528
Locust St, St. Louis, Mo. —— 63103

 

#—

Tm; WITNESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

ty can derive the greatest pos-
sible benefit from the expendi-
ture of so much time, money
and energy,” he added.

Dr. Kirk called for the dis-
carding, at the graduate and
professional school level, of ele-
mentary and introductory ma-
terials, plus “a most rigorous
selection of the requirements to
be retainec.” Non-professional
graduate study, he said, has
been less quick to change than
professional. The educator sug—
gested that master of arts de—
grees “either ought to be made
more meaningful or abolished”
because the degree “as present-
ly administered lacks the intel-
lectual significance it ought to
havef’

He also recommended discard—
ing “once and for all time the
notion that a doctoral disserta-
tion should be an original con-
tribution to human. knowledge,
when in reality it is merely a
trial run in research to demon-
strate the candidate’s tech-
niques and skills.”

Chancellor Wells, also devot-
ing much of his address to the
knowledge explosion, said “this
century has been dynamic, ex-
plosive, painful, yet pregnant
with opportunity.” He called for
a broadening of curricula “to
include a wider range of lan-
guages and a renewed under-
standing of their importance,”
along with “courses which en-
able the student to learn that

Perhaps you’ve considered what it would be like to wear this collar.
Most young men think of it at some point. And some decide it will ﬁt.

But some decide the collar won’t fit before they’ve really
examined the life of the man who wears it. They say they haven’t
seen the “light ﬂash” or heard the “voices whisper.” Neither have
most young men in seminary!

Because the call to the ministry is much like the call to any
other profession, it doesn’t always bowl you over. Usually it grows
on you until you suddenly realize you couldn’t be happy doing
anything else.

To help you in thinking about the profession, we’d like to send
you a free copy of “Live Option for You?”. This practical booklet
includes such topics as “What is the Ministry?”, “Is this Ministry
for Me?”, “Steps to be Taken to Become a Minister.” It also contains
a reading list to aid you further in thinking out your religious position.

We hope you’ll send for the booklet even if you’re not con-
sidering the ministry as a profession. Reading it will make you a
more understanding, better informed layman.

 

 

 

 

 

there are other great cultures - r- ————————————————— , ———————————————— ‘ ‘ ""1
in dd't' t ,, ++ ++ I THE EPISCOPAL SEMINARlES, DIV. of Christian Ministries w l
a 1 1011 O 0111' 0WD. +++++ ; Episcopal Church Center, 815 Second Ave., New York, New York 10017 :
The reordering 0f the cur- : Please send me a free copy of “Live Option for You?”. :
riculum also will require “the l Nam, i
faculty and administration (of : Adm... :
institutions) , with the help of I! City “an. i
L_ _______________________________________ __l

the great foundations and other

 

 

 

MONEY for your TREASTTRY

OVER 2,000,000
SUNFLOWER DISH CLOTHS
Were sold in 1963 by members of Sunday
Schools, Ladies’ Aids, Young People’s Groups,
etc. They enable you to earn money for your
treasury, and make friends for your organiza-

Berkeley Divinity School, New Haven, Conn.
Bexley Hall, the Divinity School of

Church Divinity School of the Pacific,

THE EPISCOPAL SE MINARIE S

Division of Christian Ministries, 815 Second Ave., N. Y., N. Y. 10017 _

The General Theological Seminary,
New York, New York

Kenyon College, Gambler, Ohio

Berkeley, Calif. of the South, Sewanee, Tenn.

Nashotah House, Nashotah, Wisconsin
School of Theology of the University

Seabury-Western Theological Seminary,

 

' Divinity School of the Protestant Episcopal
“on Church in Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Penna.

E . SANGAMON MH‘LS’ INC' Episcopal Theological School, Cambridge, Mass.
“21thth 1915 COHOES’ N' Y' 12047 Episcopal Theological Seminary of the Southwest,
- Austin, Texas

Evanston, Ill.

Virginia Theological Seminary,
Alexandria, Va.

 

 

 

 

k *e———-

IVIAY 21, 196 4 Seventm

 




 

sources of income . . . to invent
all types of unconventional ar—
rangements,” he said.

WALLACE RAPPED
BY BISHOP DOLL

1’: Bishop Harry Lee Doll of
Maryland, in a letter to 180
clergymen of his diocese, con-
demned» the participation of
Alabama’s Gov. George» C. Wal-
lace in Maryland’s Democratic
Presidential primary, May 19.

The bishop said the cam—
paigning of Gov. Wallace, an
avowed segregationist, has in-
troduced a “bitter racism re-
miniscent of the early 1930’s in
Nazi Germany.”

Because of the governor,
Bishop Doll said, the primary
has changed “from a purely
political one into one involving
a fundamental or basic religious
principle.”

A “race war has been de—
clared and the whipping boy is
the civil rights bill,” he added,
referring to Gov. Wallace’s op—
position to the pending measure
in Congress.

CHURCH LAGS SAYS
BISHOP STOKES

* Despite recent notable ef-
forts, the church has fallen be-
hind such secular institutions
as government, sports and in-
dustry in the struggle for
racial justice, according to Bish-
op Stokes of Massachusetts.

Addressing the convention of
the diocese, he praised those
“who have followed their con-
victions (on civil rights) by
sharing in demonstrations,” al-

 

 

Write us for

Organ Information

AUSTIN ORGANS, Inc.
Hartford, Conn.

 

though he conceded that “it is
not the vocation of every Chris-
tian to join every demonstra-
tion.”

Bishop Stokes reported that
75 Massachusetts parishes have
initiated a variety of programs
in race relations, following a
diocesan conference last Decem-
ber.

Projects include special tutor—
ing programs in. the churches,
relocation, of Negro families,
sponsorship ‘of low cost housing
projects and cooperation with
Bostoncivil rights groups.

N evertheless, the Bishop said,
“the military, government,
sports, the artsand sometimes
business have moved ahead of
the church in race relations.”

He called on churches to give
greater attention to the problem
“because the basic prejudices
which make us treat men of dif-
ferent colored skins differently
are in our midst and spirits.”

In a business session, conven-
tion delegates approved a reson
lution to be sent to all United
States Senators urging them
“to work for the passage of the
civil rights bill without weaken-
ing amendments.”

 

 

CASSOCKS

EUCHARISTIC VESTMENTS

All Embroidery Is Hand Done

ALTAR HANGINGS and LINENS
Materials by the yard. Kits for
Altar Hangings and Eucharistic Vestments

J. M. HALL, INC.

SURPLICE - CHOIR VESTMENTS

14 W. 40th St., New York 18, N. Y.
TEL CH 4-1070

 

 

 

 

s H A R I N G
Christian Healing .in the Church

Only Church magazine devoted to Spiritual
Therapy, $2.00 a year. Sample on request.
Founded by Rev. John Gaynor Banks, D.S.T.

This paper is recommended by many
Bishops and Clergy.
Address:
FELLOWSHIP OF ST.‘ LUKE
2243 Front St. San Diego 1, Calif.

 

' average-s $11,350

THE HIGH COST

’ OF BISHOPS

* The cost to maintain a di-
ocesan bishop in the Church of
England has increased to $30,—

550 annually, according to a re—

port of the church commis-
sioners. There are 48 diocesan
bishops.

Efforts have been. made by
the commissioners in recent
years to give bishops modern
accommodations; housing thus
annuauy for
each one.

In addition a bishop receives

an average annual stipend of

about $9,000, plus $10,200 to
cover travel, telephone, secre-
tarial help and entertainment.

 

 

THE PARISH OF TRINITY
New York
REV. JOHN HEuss, D. D., Rncron
TRINITY
Broadway 8: Wall St.
Rev. Bernard C. Newman, S.T.D., Vicar
Sun. MP. 8:40, 10:30, IIC 8, 9, 10, 11.
EP 3:30; Daily MP 7:45, BIG 8, 12, Ser.
12:30 Tues., Wed. 8: Thurs, EP 5:15 6X
Sat.; Sat. HC 8; C Fri. 4:30 8: by appt.
ST. PAUL’S CHAPEL
Broadway 8: Fulton St.
Rev. Robert C. Hunsicker, Vicar

Sun. HC 8:30, MP HC Ser. 10; Weekdays;
HC 8 (Thurs. also at 7:30) 12:05 ex. Sat.;
Int. 8: Bible Study 1:05 ex. Sat; EP 3; C
Fri. 3:30—5:30 8: by appt.; Organ Recital
Wednesday 12:30.

CHU RCI-I

CHAPEL OF THE INTERCESSION
Broadway 8: 155th St.
Leslie J. A. Lang, Vicar

Sundays 8, 9, 11; Weekdays: Mon. Fri.
Sat. 9; Tues. 8; Wed. 10; Thurs. 7.

ST. LUKE’S CHAPEL
487 Hudson St.
Rev. Paul C. Weed, Ir., Vicar

Sun. HC 8, 9:15 8: 11; Daily HC 7 8: 8.
C Sat. 5-6, 8-9, by appt.

ST. AUGUSTINE’S CHAPEL

292 Henry St.

Rev. Wm. Reed, Vicar

Rev. Thomas P. Logan, (Priest-in-charge)

Sundays: 7 a.m. Low Mass, 8 a.m. Low Mass,
9 a.m. Morning Prayer, 9:15 a.m. Solemn
High Mass, 10:30 a.m. Low Mass in Spanish
5 p.m. Evening Prayer; Weekdays: 7:15 a.m.
Morning Prayer, 7 :30 a.m. Low Mass, 5 pm.
Evening Prayer.

sr. CHRISTOPHER’S CHAPEL.
48 Henry Street
Rev. William IV. Reed, Vicar

Sun. MP 7:45, HC 8, 9:30, 11 (Spanish),
EP 5:15; Mon. ~"Thurs. NIP 7:45, HC 8
& Thurs. 5:30; Fri. MP 8:45, HC 9; Sat.
MP 9:15, HC 9:30; EP Daily 5:15; 0 Sat.
4-5, 6:30 - 7:30 8: by‘appt.

 

Eighteen

THE WITNESS

 

 

“iv-HM.—

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

- BACKF IRE -

W. H. Ferry

 

 

. Vice-Chairman of the Center for the

Study of Democratic Institutions

On behalf of the ad hoc com-
mittee I wish to thank you for
the generous attention given in
The Witness to “The Triple
Revolution.” The statement
was written precisely for the
purposes prescribed at the end
of the present installment
(5/7): for consideration by
study groups and conferences,
and it is most encouraging to
have it thus put before your
audience.

C. C. Boydston
Rector, St. Stephen’s,
San Luis Obispo, Cal.

The article “Concern of the
Church for China” by Carl
Soule was provocative to the
extent of nausea. The title is
a complete misnomer.

Soule’s advice is gratuitous in

re Chiang’s need to leave For-
mosa. His analogy using Jeff
Davis fleeing to Cuba is pa-
tently stupid. Mr. Soule’s use
of the biblical reference to the
kind of people with whom Jesus
consorted is not germane to the
issue.
. As a matter of fact Christian-
lty is not at issue in this article.
Why publish this? Your publi-
cation is better suited to reli-
gion than partisan politics left-
of—center.

Donald C. Muth
Curate, Grace Church,

~«New Orleans, La.

After reading (and re—read-
ins) the April 23rd edition of
The Witness I am somewhat
aghast over the political naivete
Of a number of clergy, both
P.E.’s and P’s. ‘ '

I agree that not tohave to

fight the Communist anywhere
in the world (and particularly
in Viet Nam) would be grand,
but I would suggest that the
better plea should be made not
to the US. government, but to
the Reds who are attempting to
conquer this land. I don’t be-
lieve our government can fairly
be labelled “warmongers”, des-
pite what the Communists say.

Far worse that this plea,
however, is the article by Carl
Soule, seconded by W. B. Spof-
ford Sr. that PRC be admitted
to the UN. The idea itself does
demand study rather than
ignore-ance. But Mr. Soule
quotes Chou-En-Lai asking for
“the peaceful liberation of Tai-
wan.” I’m certain Chou En-lai
would claim the people on Tai-
wan need to be liberated from
their government, just. as he
would claim we Americans need
to be “liberated” also by Com-
munism. But can you and Mr.
Soule honestly agree?

I suspect that some have for-
gotten there can. be no peace
with evil no matter how badly
we yearn for it unless perhaps
we are Willing to compromise
our principles. as well as our
faith. And accepting all the
blame for bad situations around
the world I’m afraid is not the

cure either.

Surely, sir, you are worthy of
more sublety than this. You
might re-read St. Matthew
10:16 and the parable of the un—

just steward.

 

 

 

READ scour...

The Man Who
Shocked All London!

Father Joe

Joseph Williamson is certainly not a
conventional type of Vicar. He grew
up in London’s worst slums, and as
Father Joe, dedicated his life to help-
ing fight the filth, disease, and pros—
titution that thrive in such an area.
His story is shocking but unforget—
table. As for Father Joe himself, he's
one of the most likable men of God
you’ll ever meet. 2l6 pages.
Illustrated, $3.95

Order from your bookstore

abingmon press

175 YEARS OFSW-SINCE I789

 

 

 

 

 

ARBISHOP PARSONS’ ANTHOLOGY

Selections Made By

Massey H. Shepherd Jr.
Professor at the Church Divinity School of the Pacific

Being u

sed is several theological seminaries and Will

make excellent material for use in parishes with
adult classes and discussion groups. .

There is as much material in this magazine Size leaflet
as in many books that sell for $2 or more.

25¢ for single copy

$2 for ten copies

THE WITNESS

TUNKHANNOCK ,

PENNSYLVANIA

 

Wyn ——-'——

 




Schools of the Church

 

 

NORTHWESTERN
ACADEMY

LAKE GENEVA, WISCONSIN
Rev. James Howard Jacobson
Superintendent and Rector

An outstanding military college pre
paratory school for boys 12 to 18
grades 8 through 12. Fireproof
buildings, modern science depart-
ment, excellent laboratory and aca-
demic facilities. 90 acre campus with
extensive lake Shore frontage, new
3 court gym. Enviable year ’round
environment. All sports, including
riding and sailing. Accredited. Sum-
mer Camp. Write for catalogue

164 South Lake Shore Road.

 

 

 

LENOX SCHOOL
the Berkshire Hills for
emphasizing ideal

of plant

;\ Church
12—18

School in

boys Christian and

character through simplicity and

equipment, moderate tuition, the co—Operative
‘ .1

sclf—help system and informal, personal rela-

tionships among boys and faculty.

REV. ROBERT L. CURRY,

LENOX. MASSACHUSETTS

Headmaster

 

 

 

THE CHURCH
FARM SCHOOL

GLEN LOCH, PA.

A School for Boys Dependent On One Parent

Grades -- 5th through 12th

Preparatory and Vocational
Sports: Soccer, Basketball, Track,
Cross-Country

College

ing:

Train-

Learn to study, work play on 1600 acre

farm in historic Chester Valley.
Bovs Choir ~—
REV.

Religious Training
CHARLES W. SHRElNER, D.D.
Headmaster
Post Office: Box S, Paoli, Pa.

 

 

 

 

ST. AGNES SCHOOL

An Episcopal Day and Baarding
School for Girls

Excellent College Preparatory record. Exten-
sive sports fields and new gymnasium. Board-
ers range from Grade 9 to College Entrance.

MRS. JOHN N. VANDEMOER, Principal
ALBANY NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE WOODHULL SCHOOLS

Nursery to College
HOLLIS, L. 1.
Sponsored by
ST. GABRIEL’S EPISCOPAL CHURCH
under the direction of the rector,
THE REV. ROBERT Y. CONDIT

 

 

 

 

Shattuck School

The oldest Church School west of the Alle-
ghenies integrates all parts of its program -
religious academic, military, social — to help
high school age boys grow “in wistm and
stature and in favor with God and man "

Write
DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS

664 Shumway Hall
SHAT’rucn SCHOOL FARIBAULT, MINN-

MEMBER: THE EPISCOPAL
SCHOOL ASSOCIATION

 

 

 

HOLDERNESS

The White Mountain School for boys 13-19.
Thorough college preparation in small classes
Student gcvernment emphasises responsrbility.
Team sports, skiing. Debating. Glee Club. Art.
New fireproof building.

 

DONALD C. HAGERMAN, Headmaster
Plymouth, New Hampshire

 

 

 

 

 

 

OKOLONA COLLEGE

OKOLONA, MISSISSIPPI

A Unique Adventure in Christian Education
Co—educational, Private. Episcopal Diocese
of Mississippi (Protestant Episcopal Church)
Established 1902
School and Junior College.
and Industries. Music.

High Trades

For information write:
The President _
Today’s Training for Tomorrow’s Opportunities

 

 

 

 

DeVEAUX

Niagara Falls, New

FOUNDED 1853

A Church School for boys in the
W'estern New York.

SCHOOL

York

Diocese of
Grades 8 thru 12. Col-
lege Preparatory. Small Classes, SO-acre
Campus, Resident Faculty. Dormitory for
80, School Building, Chapel, Gymnasium and
Swimming Pool. Write for catalog Box “A”.

DAVID A. KENNEDY, M.A., Headmaster
THE R'r. REV. LAURISTON L. SCAIFE, D.D.:
Pres. Board of Trustees

THE NATIONAL
CATHEDRAL SCHOOL
(For Girls)

ST. ALBANS SCHOOL
(For Boys)

Two schools on the 58-acre Close of
the Washington Cathedral offering a
Christian education in the stimulat-
ing environment Of the Nation’s
Capital. Students experience many
of the advantages of co—education
yet retain the advantages of sepa-
rate education. —- A thorough cur-
riculum of college preparation com-
bined with a program Of supervised
athletics and of social, cultural, and
religious activities.

Day: Grades 4-12 Boarding- Grades 8—12
Catalogue Sent Upon Request
Mount St. Alban. Washington 16, D. C.

 

 

 

 

ST. ANNE'S SCHOOL

One of Church Schools in the Diocese 0f
\r’irginia. College preparatory. Girls, grades
7-12. Curriculum is well—rOunded, emphasis
is individual. based on principles of Chris-
tian democracy. Music, Art, Dramatics, Sports.
Riding. Suite-plan dorms. Established 1910.

MARGARET DOUGLAS JEFFERSON, Headmistress

ST. ANNE’S SCHOOL
Charlottesville ” Va.

‘7

 

 

 

 

 

SAINT JAMES
SCHOOL

FARIBAULT, MINNESOTA
FOUNDED 1901
A Country Boarding School for Boys,
Grades Four through Eight

One of the few schools m the Midwest
specializing in only the elementary gradet.
Small Classes —- Individual Attention — Home
Atmosphere — Thorough preparation for lead-
ing secondary schools -— Athletics includmg
Riflerv and Riding -— Competitive sports 11:
football, basketball and hockey.

Summer School-Camp CombinatiOn. Grades
One through Eight. June twenty-first to
July thirty-first.

MARVIN W. HORSTMAN, Headmaster

 

 

 

 

ST. MARGARET’S SCHOOL

COLLEGE PREPARATION FOR GIRLS

Fully accredited. Grades 8-12. Music,
art, dramatics. Small classes. All
Sports. On beautiful Rappahannock
River. Episcopal. Summer School.
Write for catalog.

Viola, H. Woolfolk,

Box W, Tappahannock, Virginia

 

 

 




 

 

TH E Magnavox COMPANY

 

Cable Address: Magnavox Telex 023-212 TWX 219 241-2995

BUETER ROAD, FORT WAYNE, INDIANA

November 20, 1962

Animal welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New York

Attention: Estella Draper

Dear Miss Draper:
This is in reply to your inquiry dated November 14, 1962.

I find that I must both apologize and, also, plead innocence
in not having answered your letter of August 14, to which
you.refer. Apparantly, your original letter became bogged
down in an attempt to get it to the proper department. At
least it has never arrived at this department, to which it
should have been delivered.

As you no doubt realize, many conferences are held and much
midnight oil is burned in siecting the proper layout for any
advertising campaign. In this case, we were faced with the
selection of a proper advertising layout to present the ed-
ucational television story. In our investigations, we found
that the pupils were most interested in the language and science
courses. As you can imagine, it would be almost impossible to
properly show a television picture of a language lesson, conse~
quently, we were left with the choice of a science picture.

The particular educational film, from which the "mouse" picture
was selected, was found to be an unusually interesting one on
the part of both educators and pupils. The entire subject was
presented in such a manner that all who viewed the lesson were
impressed with the value animals play in saving human lives.

As you know, students of Junior High School and High School
level are very much impressed by anything scientific and any
display of scientific methods.

From my own experience, I can say that one of my own sons, after
viewing this particular lesson, was so thoroughly impressed with
the need for proper veterinary medicine, that he has now decided
to take this as his life’s work.

OVER FIFTY YEARS OF CREATIVE ELECTRONICS




Animal Welfare Institute November 20, 1962

I hope I have been of some help to you in answering your

original question, but this office will be happy to be of
any possible further assistance to you.

Respectfully young

THE menial

i

2 :5
be»
i

(/l
f i I
”If g“

;' . U; _ if: /,
V , 5/
Harold/J. Kneller

Contract Sales Department

HJK/7

 




Eebveeebeb M», 1%.?

The beam-vex ﬁemw W

heft {a y‘be ,
Ibdiebe
Genﬁemem

‘ be have received me reply m bur letter of ﬁuwst 3.4., memming you:
ﬁx} lvmge eévebbiwz‘e,ebb in ﬁzbe 51:13,» 23.53% bf "Schmii Eéizzmegement”, ebmibg a
meme xmeivieeg eb, ibjectieb. ”be meme be inter-ewedf in mowing my tbia
mrbieeler gimme bee ewe ”be ab}: war maébc‘e.

Sineeze‘iy you“.

Estella Draper
Executive $ewetery

 




ﬁuguat 1h, 19%?

Tha Magnavax Campaﬂy
'Foxt wayng, Indiana

Géanﬂ 1.3mm .3 .

Eaur full paga aﬂvartiﬁamgat in 33% guiy
33mg @f “Schagl Nanagmmgnt” which Shows
waiv
ﬂ

3 mauaa
’ng an injectian has 39mg €0,9ar atﬁention,

we: walﬂ liim m know my gym: m9 lm'tiyzu‘i mm
gimtura ta $611 yaur proﬁmcta

ﬂimcﬁraly,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If your problem is heavy last-minute enrollment, and
your science lab facilities are strained beyond all hope,
relax. Hamilton designers can select and lay out All-
Purpose Lab Units that ﬁt your teaching needs, and
promise prompt delivery in time for school opening day.
Write for your personal copy' of the new condensed
catalog on All-Purpose Laboratory Equipment.

Another quality school product from

 

The Hamilton All-Purpose line includes:
Instruction Desks, Student Tables,
Storage Cabinets, Fume Hoods, and
Accessories.

OF TWO RIVERS

HAMILTON MANUFACTURING COMPANY. TWO RIVERS, WISCONSIN

(For literoture, circle 722 on reply cord OppOSl‘I’e last page)

'SCHOOL MANAGEMENT

 




3i F§r£1 YER Fm ﬁ‘i‘lﬁiﬁ L3
fmm Engglaad

Mar mm humbm pm year, 9 Gad , for our
friamm the animm, mmoiany far animals; me
am mﬁfaﬁng ... far all that are {wax-worked
and mmwm iimi email}! traatad; far all
wimml arm: harem ii“: captivity that beat against
than" ham; fear ail that are in pain or aim;
far all that must be put t0 death. We Emmi.
far them all ‘E‘hy 2mm and pity. Make 1w
oumalvm. to 1m twat frmmia to animals and ‘
m w sham the blaming of the merciful; for
this: make; 033‘ Thy 8021 Jaws Amrigt our Imd.

{EM giant tint are my mamas it is in the big
thing-m (if life we are at one; it is; the little -
thing—m that emate differences. And may we
giﬂve it) much ané to know the gmat comm
imam heart of 113 all and 0 Lard, God, let

113 mi: fargat "220 ha kind. .

3% r3; ﬁtnart ‘ a Prayar

 




AAAAAA AAAAAA A A _
23 $3ng 1 f;

Ms W YﬁﬂwPﬂt‘t A559

LAboAAAAAy Anmls AAA AA, AAA
Wﬁﬂﬁ 1A1 ﬁ3 E AWAAA AA; “TAKE

'ﬁﬁzAhAEEGmA AAAAAAA

‘EAAIAAA

QAAA ma hgnAmA-AAA‘A “A? A

*TI
’2
via

AAAIAAAA AMAAA AA AAA AAAAAA AAA” EE'RA AAA AAA» AAA.
W‘Sfaib‘gé“ 33383 E3 EA A 3‘31 Aﬁgﬂﬁfi‘gttj @333”ng ”EA? 33.512. ‘ “
ﬁﬁrﬁiQiﬂﬁﬁﬂ AAA AAAAA AAA AAAA AAAA AA A A A: AA
had AAAA AAA AAAAAAA AA AAA AAAAAA AAAAAA._.~M AA A"
m it a???”

35 “‘3’? 1‘: WA“ A? i:— AAA: AAAA AA AAAAAAA W W A. A
1mm the AAAA AM AAAAIA AA AAAAA AVALAA AA AA fﬂ‘f-. A? AA AAA AAAAAAAAAA
ta which thin; AAA-WA"? if it «AAA AAAMEIAAAAA, AAAAAAAAAW AAAAAAA l AAAA
Ala-y! AAAAAAAAAA AAA AA AA AAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAA AAA Ai AAAA AAA AA AA AA

'9

AA A AAAAAAA A;:r «A AA AAAAAAA‘ij AA AA (AA: AliAﬁ AA AAA”? AAAAAAAAAA

 




 

(—amq 3m uado 0.1.

Sender’s name and address:

LABORATORY ANIHALS CENTRE
....*L..E.;. "C... ..I.. .11 QDRiT ,7‘R.L q- :3 ......................................

WOQDMANHTERNE RC‘AD,

AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY
ENCLOSURE ; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCHARGED
OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL.

(——Second fold here ————)

PAR AVION

AIR LETTER

AEROGRAMME‘ _' '

...Mm,....Chris.tine..Srtevens.§ ....................................................

......... Animal..yielfaxseLJnsti-ulteg..................................

.......... 223astl7th$treet

 




 
 

  

LABORATORY ARIIALS=OEETRE.
s M.R.C. LABORATORIES.
{ WOODMLNSTERNE ROAD,
CARSHALTON, SURREY, ENGLAND.

 
      
  
   
  
    
   
 

3q/ABq/Hme 26th November, 1962.

Mrs. Christine Stevens,
ﬁnimal'Welfare Institute,
22, East 17th Street,
,New YOrk l7, N.Y.

-Dear Mrs. Stevens,

I must acknowledge your recent letter and.enclosnre,
which arrived this morning. I cannot remember the exact words that I
used on the occasion reported in the Ann.arbor News, but the words that are
reported represent the views I held at the time and still hold. The later
part of the quotation attributed to me is certainly a carefully considered
opinion, and that being so, the present preposed legislation must, in my
View, be pernicious. I believe that to persist in it would be a great
disservice to the cause of laboratory animal welfare in the United States.

     
   
 
 
 

 
 

It seems that not a single scientific or professional
society in the United States is supporting your'bill. This means also that

the great majority of scientists in this field are also opposed to legislation
of this kind. Therefore, it seems to me that no such legislation could
possibly be made to work effectively or usefully. There may well be scientists
who support the general aims of your organization, but who like myself cannot
see that legislation of this kind is likely to promote those aims. Such
scientists are, in fact, likely to be driven away from support of‘an animal
welfare organization, because it is promoting a programme, with which they
cannot possibly agree. It seems to me unfortunate that the potential support
of such people should be alienated, as I believe it is.

 
 
    
   
   
   
    
     
    

, In your letter you.have suggested that I am inhumane,
untrustworthy and insincere, and I might say that it is a very long time since
anybody everlwrote to me in such terms. You.must retain your own opinion, bum
I am.sorry that you found it necessary to put such words down on paper. In
your first paragraph, the suggestion is one of duplicity on my part. 'When I
arrived in the United States - you.were the first person I saw after my
arrival ~ I had an open mind on this subject, because I did.not know enough
of the facts. In the course of my'extensive travels, I learned a great deal
which enabled.me to form the Opinions I have already indicated. If I
remember correctly, in our luncheon conversation I said.nothing that would
have encouraged you to believe that I was in favour of your proposed
legislation. In fact, I think I stated at least once that, whereas we have

         
    
   
    
     
    
    




made our own Act work well in Great Britain, I did
not consider it something that was suitable for
export. This may not have been a "ha; of hostility"
but it was certainly no earnest of sympathy.

Copies of this correspondence are being sent
to Dr. Cohen, because the incident reported in the
AnnArborNews3 to which you.have taken exception,
occurred when I was his guests

 

Yburs sincer v,-

\

‘W. lane-Fetter.

o
x...
a)
.c
E
8
J—J
(I)
.’:
LL.

 

 




   

liaORAToar AquAI,csNTRE
rumc.nmdmnmns
'woouuiusrsnwn ROAD
CARSHAImow, SURREY, sueruun

 
   
   
     
 
       
   
    
      
   
   
   
      
     
       
      
   
   
      
      
    
 
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   

3oith/Huc 26th November, 1962

Mrs. Christine Stevens,
Animal Welfare Institute,
22, East 17th Street,
New York 17, N.Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

I must acknowledge your recent letter and enclosure,
which arrived this morning. I cannot remember the exact words that I
used on the occasion reported in the Ann Arbor News, but the words that are
reported represent the views I held at the time and still hold. The later
part of the quotation attributed to me is certainly a carefully considered
opinion, and that being so, the present proposed legislation must, in my
view, be pernicious. I believe that to persist in it would be a great
disservice to the cause of laboratory animal welfare in the United States.

It seems that not a single scientific or professional
society in the United States is supporting your bill. This means also that
the great majority of scientists in this field are also opposed to legislation
of this kind. Therefore, it seems to me that no such legislation could
possibly be made to work effectively or usefully. There may well be scientists
who support the general aims of your organization, but who like myself‘cannot
see that legislation of this kind is likely to promote those aims. Such
scientists are, in fact, likely to be driven away from support of an animal
welfare organization, because it is promoting a programme, with which they
cannot possibly agree. It seems to me unfortunate that the potential support
of such people should be alienated, as I believe it is.

In your letter you have suggested that I am inhumane,
untrustworthy and insincere, and I might say that it is a very long time since
anybody ever wrote to me in such terms. You must retain your own opinion, but
I am sorry that you found it necessary to put such words down on paper. In
your first paragraph, the suggestion is one of duplicity on my part. When I
arrived in the United States - you were the first person I saw after my
arrival - I had an open mind on this subject, because I did not know enough
of the facts. In the course of my extensive travels, I learned a great deal
which enabled me to form.the opinions I have already indicated. If I
remember correctly, in our luncheon conversation I said nothing that would
have encouraged you to believe that I was in favour of your proposed
legislation. In fact, I think I stated at least once that, whereas we have
made our own Act work well in Great Britain, I did not consider it something
that was suitable for export. This may not have been a "hint of hostility"
but it was certainly no earnest of sympathy.

Copiesof this correspondence are being sent to Dr. Cohen,
because the incident reported in the Ann Arbor News, to Which you have taken
exception occurred when I was his guest.

Yours sincerely,

W. Lane —Petter




‘~w~ ‘ . 1111
1111mm11m11

{‘1‘ ' "1. 3‘ at, .. {m '1
1131311711.: -, 3-11 1 11.1; .
".11, .. .
' ~33" 3 i. 9,31,14,52; 1 (La 5113,11,. :15: 5
' $71,331:“ it)?

5. r ’1 w."
‘3 a .1; g

:3 1111.. 1131;111:3111311113111111 777*111 1 3.1“ 7“ .' .1: 1.11
1111111331 111111313 311111: 11111113111. 3?. 111.: 11711:: '3: 11117“: ' .31 3; 3:
1111113 121:: 333111 {111611136111 rapm‘teﬁ 131.17: 1.11:: 7 E1131 111151
11111111111113 1117111.... 1.11111 12.37111 13.111111 3: 311.131.3113: 323 111. 1111111 7‘3 1711:1117... 17311:: 35311 111:1“
111111, 11.12“ 11371:: 11111111111111 111123.111 17111-7113 11:11.1 :31: 1.111 ‘- ‘1‘1‘ 1 11311 1.1111113131111113
,......1.11:.1 11.1113 313:; 31135111; 13131, 333111 11111313213113 131‘.::-‘ [.1111 ‘rl‘ 1.1“; 1.1111,, 21.11 m
:3. 33113.3; “1111‘: 11111313111 3‘11““111“ .. 111.113" 3.11:1: £1 111111“
0f 11111111111 1:111M Lﬁ 1L: ”“3tB3 N$ﬂﬂ®ﬁ~

'33, 31111111: 13:13: 11113.1 3 111111111 111111111111 :11.“ 11111111111111
11711111111111 in the “ 1111:1111 iii-1.1131111 111 11.111111511111113 1111111“ 31111. T171121 111111111 1111:: 131111;;
1:13:11 §jf."?:.?‘:‘:1; ‘11 113.1111: 111‘ 1121131113. 111 in “1.31111 13.1.1113 are: 51111:: 11,1de to 111,11. 11111131111
1:117.” 1311.17: kind. "3111me , 5.31. 111111115 3111 11111 111111 1111111113: 1-11.21“ 311 ‘ 1.1111111
1101111331311 1311 11111311 311:: 1111131: effactﬁmly 11‘ 1111111113313 ‘1:1"~:1111:‘11 11111 1.113.}. 3311 1‘12 113.111 1.1.11.1
11311.1 1711111013; 1.3771: 111111» 11111111 113.1111 111' 3711:1111: <11:“1:1......1 11911, 331.111 1113151313111 wmlf {1111111111.
1211111 37.11.1131 1.1111311737- 31‘11111 131315.11 312211113 33 13.31111“ 11 1111113171 313111.111“ 11.1.... .1. 31711111331
11111311111113.1111: 1111111,, 31:11 i” E... , 13.311131: 1:: 3111 31:3. 211‘: 111111; 1311:1111 1‘7111‘1‘11‘1. 1:1... 11:11 111113. 1111......
11113; 11111 11171771111. :11 111111.111 7.3.731" 91111111.: 1“ 11 ‘11 -1 .1, “1.171 1:1 1:: 113111111
1.711117117111177. 1:12:11: 11.13713 .11. 111111111 3.11:: 111.11 11.113111111111111: H1111; 1.1 1: “.1123. 11111111111

§

‘1' V f." I ~ ' "" 1““ ' '7 -‘Ir 1 .' \ﬁ " “3? if: .7.
(3‘3 5313333- 17 ‘1: 1113...1‘1£1‘E11“31 1:11:11 13... .1121 23.31.171.11.

Z3311 11:11.11“ .23 113131111“ 31111.1 3111. 11:1 ,1; .
11111:, 11113111111131? 1.11113 “11‘1:13.1111111‘.., 1111“ 137 1113.1;11-1; ,3, 11,1, 1 1. ‘1‘ 1,13,, 3.1111,, .11 1.113111 11
117113111131 11111131." 311113.11 “1117.1 111.1 23.11 7 ”2.1“ 111 . 1- -. 11111117 1:11.111 111111131111: 11111
3: 11.111 30W 331331131 31111.1 1311111173 :33: . :. ,1, ., 3111‘: $3,, 1111‘. 1‘. 23.11
31‘ 033? 11111 WWW“; 1’? 13‘ 1‘ . 1.115? 11, 1.1. 3:111 13"
1111111111311 3373’: M 333-333 31" 31“ “1:1,: 1111-113 1'11: 51". . .11. . ‘11“ $1.11“ 332‘?
73335331313331 - 73 31.1113 1111'». 111371111 1121.11.13; 3.131111 1:11: 113131;: .1, 11111 1.1.1.;7‘ ’11 3‘:
at“ “1:311: 5333333“ I" "23111" {333333335333 :1? 13? 11111111113111 111111; 1...: 1:11.11 ‘23 :11 1321111117 11113..
1131111131 111‘: “3713‘ 3 33333 3333 '41“ 111111 “‘1‘? 13:3; 11.13.0111 .13.? 31117111: 7‘ 1.12.1, 71.. 11.177“ :33? 11
“35333333339? 3‘33 ”3333313311 3-33 ‘3‘3335‘ 37 21111. 11.11111 11.111111: -111“:
3333333 ‘1 33961-3311“ 1‘1311 “3311 ‘11131 1.1111 1. ET 1111 1.11. 1:11.11 1.1:: 1117;“ :11 1111111: 12.11::
1,1,11,11,11,;9?’ 1,13,, 5,11%, 3 1111113311 3: 11:1“"1‘3 11.3: 31111-1111- 1‘111131 3...: 1.111113“ 1111.1 3,1111%
331813131 1111?? 11‘: 11:13: 1111131: 111.11 3.11 111111 .1 1.1111171, 3 11.13 1:11.11.- 1‘1111113111‘ 23.1; 11111111 11,111.,
3133331 3‘3”“? 113‘ 3133‘: 31113:" 11111121. 33151.11 111.11“ 11113; 1‘11 2111-11111 1‘1 “1111131 (:11. 1171111133..“‘33
33333} 5‘3" 33335 33333313113133? 1113 11111111111, 11:: 1111111111.

=11“i111m.. 7%111 11111:“ “11111111111311.1111 ~ ‘11131 1:11 3:121“. ”111311111,
3311111111111 11311.: 3.111111. 1.11.111 31 11‘..1.“3..1:.‘113. 3.11 1‘11 ‘1‘“: 1:1: 31:11 3.1.1.1131 311,111 311.1 1‘1... 1111:1111
11111111111117.1111. 1111111111113 1113111114. 32 111.11 31.23.11 1.11131.

31:11.11 1.1111

 




I

WEWWWWW W333WWWW W3 WWWWWlW WWW WWWW WWWW yWWW 3W? WWWWWWWWWWW WWW.WWWWW3 WWW

’WhWWWWW WWWW WW 3333 WWWWWWWWWWWWWWW 3W WWWWWWW WtW WW WWWWWWWWWWWW WWWWWWWWW
in WhexW WW WWW WWW W» fWWWWWl WW W, WWW

WWWWWWW WWWW WWWWIWWW WuffWW 3 W 3W WniWWWW WW WWW3W’W3 WWWWW 3333335 WWWW3 WW
failura WW 3 WWWWW WWW WWWWW WWWWW WWWWW; WW WWW3WWW WW 333W WWWWWWWWWWW WW WWW WWWW
humane WWWWWW WWWWWW3W3 WWW WWWWWWW WW3133WWW WWW.WWEEWWW WWndliW3, WWWW

...

WWWWW WWW WWWW WWWW3WWW WWffWWWW3 WWWW WWWWWW; WW WWVWWWW WWiWWWWfWW ““GW1 WNW,
ﬁhWrWaW-iﬁ :3 WWWnliy WWW: WW WW 33 aﬁMtWVﬁb WWWWWiW WW WﬁéargW WMWW aniar333
W3WthWr WW3; 3 3 WW WWWWW3W WWWWW3WWWWW33333, WWW

WWWWWWW W33WWWW WW W3WWWWWWW WWWW WWWWWWLwi WWWWWWW WdWWWWiWWW3 WWWWWW WlaWW WWWW
WWWW WW 2W” ng 3W? 3 WW ﬁﬁ,ﬂﬁﬁﬁ~$%33 WW33 WWW

W 3W3WWWWWWWW WWWWWWW 3W WWWWW 3333333 in 3W1L~Z {W WWW WWWW WWWWWWWWW 333

EWﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁf f3 WWWWWWWg WWWWWWWWWW WW 31WW WW3 WW WWWWW WW WWWWWW33 WW WWWWWW3W WWW WW
WWWWWWW 3WWW.3W?3 WﬁiWW WWWW WWW bat WW WWWW WWW 3am «ﬁrawnnW333m 3 WWWWWWWWW
fWiWWlWWW WWW WWWWWWWWWWW WWWWWWWWWWW WWWW WWWWW 331W WW WWWWWWWWWW 3333313, ‘W WWWWiWW
WWWWWWW WWWWWWWWW W3 WWWW, WWWWimg WWW WWWWRWWW 03 EWWWWWWny WWiWWlW, WWW

”a w
A

‘WWWWWWW WWWW Q33 zatﬁﬁﬂ WWW WWWWWWWWWW WWW W;; 331W WﬂadWﬂg WWWWWWWWWW WWW WWWWWWWWW

by WWW WWﬂWW WWWWWWWEWW WW ”W“3W”iﬁu3 WWWW.WW r,. WWWWWWW WWW WWWWiWWWW WW WWWW WWW
WWWWWWWE W3 WWW “a“? WWSWWWWW WW ﬁriWiWh WWWWWWWW WWWWWrW

WWW3 WWWWWWWWW, WW 3W WWWWlWWW WWWW WWW WWWWWWI WWWrd WW CWréWtiaW WWWiW? GWWGWPWWW
WW 313W 3 WWWWWWW WHWWWW W.WWW WWW QWW3WWWW WW WWW WW WWW WWWWWW WW WWWWW 3W33$1WWWWW
WWWWW 3333 WWWWWWW EWW W33 WRiMWlﬁxﬁgﬁd.ia WWWWWWWWWWWW WWWWWWWWW 3W WthW WW 1W Warﬁ
W3 fWWWWW3 WWWWW3 WWWWWW WWWW3WWWWW WWWWWW3WWW WW WWWWW whiWW WrWWWWW WWdewxW WWfferin

WW WWWWWWWWW3 WWWWWWW WW 333W3333 WWW WWWWW WWW3WWW WWW lelWWini WWWWW pfiFGi WlWW W3

WhWLWWWWiWW .333 M fiﬁféa

 




Guide for
' LABORATORY ANIMAL
FACILITIES AND CARE

U.$. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
Public Health Service

 




 

The Animal Care Panel is a nonproﬁt educational
association of individuals and institutions concerned
with the production, care, and study of laboratory
animals. The entire United States and several for-
eign countries are represented in its membership.

The Panel provides for the exchange of scientiﬁc
information on all phases of laboratory animal care.
It compiles and distributes information on ﬁlms deal—
ing with the handling of laboratory animals, and has
initiated an animal technicians’ training program.
It publishes a bimonthly journal, “Laboratory Ani-
mal Careg” sponsors annual awards designed to en—
courage and reward outstanding accomplishment in
the improvement of the care and quality of labora-
tory animals; and maintains close liaison with the
Institute of Laboratory Resources (National Re—
search Council), the American Veterinary Medical
Association (through the American College of Lab-
oratory Animal Medicine), the Laboratory Animal
Breeders Association, and the National Society for
Medical Research.

Through its Animal Facilities Standards Commit-
tee, the Panel gathers and examines information that
will aid in the establishment of high standards for
the care of animals.

The GUIDE FOR LABORATORY ANIMAL FACILITIES
AND CARE was adopted by the Institute of Laboratory
Animal Resources, National Academy of Sciences—
National Research Council, on January 28, 1963.

 

 

 




Guide for
LABORATORY ‘NIMAL
FACILITIES AND CARE

 

Prepared by the
ANIMAL FACILITIES STANDARDS COMMITTEE

of the
ANIMAL CARE PANEL

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
Public Health Service 0 March 1963

 

" ”ﬁa‘e» ,..._‘_~..E ~. \“J‘ ._.‘ 4

 

 

 

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, US. Government Printing Ofﬁce
Washington 25, DC. — Price 20 cents

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMAL FACILITIES STANDARDS COMMITTEE
of the
ANIMAL CARE PANEL

BENNETT J. COHEN, D.V.M., Ph. D.,
Chairman, Associate Professor of
Physiology and» Director of the Ani-
mal Care Unit, University of Mich-
igan Medical School, Ann Arbor,
Mich.

THOMAS B. C-LARKSON, D.V.M., Asso-
ciate Professor of Experimental
Medicine and Director of the Vivar-
ium, Bowman Gray School of Medi-
cine, Winston-Salem, NC

ROBERT J. FLYNN, D.V.M., Assistant
Director of the Division of Biologi-
cal an-d Medical Research, Argonne
National Laboratory, Argonne, Ill.

MELVIN M. RABSTEIN, V.M.D., Chief,
Animal Farm Division, US. Army
Biological Laboratory, Fort Detrick,
Md.

ORLAND A. SOAVE, D.V.M., Assistant
Professor of Preventive Medicine
and Public Health and Director of
the Animal Facility, Stanford Uni-
versity School of Medicine, Palo
Alto, Calif.

WILLIAM T. S. THORP, D.V.M., Dean,
College Of Veterinary Medicine, St.
Paul, Minn.

BERNARD F. TRUM, D.V.M., Director,
Animal Research Center, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 




Preface

This GUIDE is intended to assist scientiﬁc institutions in providing
the best possible care for laboratory animals. The recommendations
are based on scientiﬁc principles and on expert opinion and experience
with methods and practices which have proved consistent with high
quality care.

The Animal Facilities Standards Committee acknowledges with
thanks the ﬁnancial support in the preparation of this GUIDE of the
National Institutes of Health, the Association of American Medical
Colleges, American Heart Association, Federation of American So-
cieties for Experimental Biology, Medical Research Association of
California, and the New York State Society for Medical Research.

The following individuals have given generously of their time in

advising the Committee on many aspects of this project:

Nathan R. Brewer, D.V.M., Ph. D., As-
sociate Professor of Physiology and
Superintendent of Animal Quarters,
University of Chicago.

L. R. Christensen, Ph. D., Associate
Professor of Pathology and Direc-
tor. Berg Institute, New York Uni-
versity Medical Center.

William C. Dolowy, D.V.M., Adminis—
trator, Medical Research Labora-
tory, University of Illinois.

Joseph J. Garvey, Executive Secre-
tary, Animal Care Panel, Inc.

William I. Gay, D.V.M., Chief, Animal
Hospital Section, Laboratory Aids
Branch, Division of Research Serv-
ices, National Institutes of Health.

Walter C. Hess, Ph. D., Associate
Dean, Georgetown University,
School of Medicine.

Berton F. Hill, Executive Secretary,
Institute of Laboratory Animal Re-
sources, National Academy of Sci-
ences-National Research Council.

Robert L.” Hummer, Colonel USAF,
V.C. Chief, Veterinary Services,

School of Aerospace Medicine,

Brooks Air Force Base.

L. Meyer Jones, D.V.M., Director of
Scientiﬁc Activities, American
Veterinary Medical Association.

Sholom Pearlman, D.D.S., Secretary,
Council on Dental Research, Amer-
ican Dental Association.

Carl C. Pfeiffer, M.D.,-Ph. D., Federa-
tion of American Societies for Ex-
perimental Biology.

Lee Powers, M.D., Associate Director,
Association of American Medical
Colleges.

C Bruce Taylor, M.D., American
Heart Association.

J. A. Wells, M.D., Ph. D., American
Society for Pharmacology and Ex-
perimental Therapeutics.

Walter Wiggins, M.D., Secretary,
Council on Medical Education and
Hospitals, American Medical Asso»
ciation.

John B. Youmans, M.D., President,
United Health Foundation.

 




 

Table of Contents

INTRODUCTION
I. PERSONNEL

III.

A.

B.
II. PHYSICAL PLANT

w ewczzrsrrmowmv an?

Professional direction of laboratory animal care ________________
Animal care personnel ______________________________________
Functional areas _____________________________________________
Service areas in relation to total size of the animal facilities _____
Geographical relationship of animal facilities to research or teach-

ing laboratories __________________ _ _____________________________

. Materials ________________________________________________ ._ _ -

Corridors ________________________________ . _____________________
Animal room doors _________________________________________

. Windows _____________________________ . _____________________

Floors ____________________________________________________
Walls ______________________________________________________
Ceilings _____________________________________________ . ........
Ventilation, temperature, and humidity control ___________________
Power and lighting ________________________________ . __________

. Drainage---- ------------------------------------------------
. Storage areas: food and bedding; refuse; equipment ____________

Noise control“ ----------------------------------------------
Facilities for washing and sterilizing equipment and supplies -----
Special facilities needed for biological safety in infectious disease

units ------------------------------------------------------
.Special requirements for radiation safety ----------------------

LABORATORY ANIMAL HOUSING AND CARE
A. Housing ____________________________________________________
1. Criteria for evaluating a caging or housing system -------------
2. Exercise ------------------------------------------- o ---------
3. Space recommendations for laboratory animals --------- V _____
B. Sanitation _________________________________________________
1. Cleanliness ----------------------------------------------
2. Sanitary waste disposal ----------------------------------- _-
3. Vermin and , rodent control ------------------------------ -- -
4. Personal hygiene- ____________________________________________
C. Feeding, watering, and identiﬁcation of laboratory animals - _ ., _- -_
1. Feeding- _________________________________________________
2. Watering _________________________________________________
3. Identiﬁcation __________________________________________ .- - -
D. Diagnosis, control, and treatment of animal diseases--- _ __ - .- - .- .. -
E. Quarantine and isolation of animals ---------------------------
F. Animal surgery and postsurgical care ---------------------- . .....
1. Facilities, equipment, and supplies -------------------------
2- Operating rules ___________________________________________
3. Postsurgical care ________________________________________

13
15

19

 

 




 

 

AIEHMWDIXES

I. PREREQUISITES FOR CERTIFICATION BY THE AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
LABORATORY ANIMAL MEDICINE _____________________________
II. PREREQUISITES FOR CERTIFICATION BY THE ANIMAL TECHNICIAN
CERTIFICATION BOARD OF THE ANIMAL CARE PANEL _________

III. SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY ON THE CARE AND MANAGEMENT OF LAB-

ORATORY ANIMALS __________________________________________

Page.

26

27

29




Introduction

Laboratory animal medicine has experienced dramatic growth in
recent years. This growth is a natural consequence of the increased
ﬁnancial support of medical research, of the consequent increase in
the numbers of animals used, and of the great reﬁnement in research
techniques which requires better quality animals and animal care.
Proper use of the GUIDE should aid institutions in protecting their
great investment in laboratory animals and facilities, and in improv-
ing these facilities.

The GUIDE is symbolic of the scientiﬁc community’s ethical com-
mitment to provide the best possible care for animals used in the serv-
ice of man and animals. The recommendations are based on three
principles :

1. The care and management of laboratory animals should be
directed by professionally qualiﬁed persons.

2. All animal care personnel should be suitably qualiﬁed by
training and experience in the care of laboratory animals.

3. Physical facilities and the methods of care for animals should
permit their maintenance in a state of well—being and comfort.

The Committee recognizes that the nature of the animal facilities
and the methods used in implementing these principles may vary with
the type and size of the scientiﬁc institution. However, it hopes the
GUIDE will serve as a common reference for all institutions conducting
animal care programs.

The ﬁrst edition of the GUIDE is directed primarily to the problems
of maintaining the most commonly used mammalian species in med-
ical research institutions. It may contain errors of omission and
commission. Corrections will be received gratefully, and the Com-
mittee solicits constructive criticism. If the GUIDE is to serve use—
fully, it must be a living document, subject to change with changing
conditions and new information.

The Committee wishes to emphasize that nothing in the GUIDE is
intended to limit the investigator’s freedom and obligation to plan
and conduct animal experiments in accordance with accepted practice.
The proper scientiﬁc control of certain experiments may require mod-
iﬁcation of parts of the GUIDE in the interest of the research. How—
ever, the Committee believes that the routine operation of institutional
animal facilities should be guided by these recommendations.

 




 

 

 

 

I. Personnel

A. Professional direction of laboratory animal care

The attainment of the highest possible animal care standards de-
pends primarily on the individual(s) directing the program(s).
institution may need one or several “directors of animal care,” de-
pending on its size and on the administrative organization of its animal
facilities. However, the objective should be to provide a professional
staff adequate in size to assure responsible direction of laboratory
animal care.

1. Laboratory animal facilities should be directed by professionally
qualiﬁed persons having at least 3 years of pertinent training, expe-
rience, or combination of training and experience.

2. As used here, pertinent training means the completion of a period
of formal graduate professional or academic training in laboratory
animal medicine, or a related ﬁeld. Pertinent experience means the
completion of a period of active participation or apprenticeship at in-
creasing levels of responsibility, in the operation of laboratory animal
facilities. The broad subject areas in which directors of laboratory
animal facilities should be knowledgeable include :

(a) methods and techniques of laboratory animal care, handling
and experimentation ,

(b) comparative anatomy, physiology, pathology, and diseases
of laboratory animals ,

(0) administration and management of laboratory animal
facilities.

3. Persons professionally qualiﬁed to direct laboratory animal
facilities include :

(a) Diplomates of the American College of Laboratory Animal
Medicine (see app. I, p. 26) ;

(b) physicians, dentists, veterinarians, or other persons formally
trained in the biological sciences, and having at least 3 years
of pertinent training, experience, or combination of training
and experience ;

(0) persons who do not have professional or academic degrees;
but who are qualiﬁed by virtue of having specialized educa—
tion, training, and experience essentially equivalent to cate-
gories 3(a) and 3(7)) above. Ordinarily, however, such
persons would be expected to serve under professional
direction.




B. Animal care personnel

1. Animal care personnel should be suitably qualiﬁed by training
and experience in the care of laboratory animals. Scientiﬁc institu—
tions should make provisions for the training of newly employed ani—
mal care personnel.1

2. Qualiﬁed animal care personnel include:

(a) persons certiﬁed by the Animal Technician Certiﬁcation
Board of the Animal Care Panel (see app. II, p. 27) ;

(6) persons having training or experience essentially equivalent
to that required for Animal Care Panel certiﬁcation.

3. Apprentice personnel should be supervised directly by qualiﬁed
personnel (2(a) or 2(6) above) or by the professional director of
animal care.

4. The size of the animal care staff should be adequate to assure
daily attention to the needs of the laboratory species, in accordance
with the recommendations in the GUIDE.

5. Provisions should also be made for personnel to provide emer~
gency care of animals whenever needed.

1Training courses in laboratory animal care are offered in many communities through

the local branches of the Animal Care Panel. For further information write the Execu-
tive Secretary, Animal Care Panel, Box 1028, Joliet, Ill.

681135 0—63—2 3

 

 




 

 

 

ll. Physical Plant

The physical condition and design of animal facilities determine the
efﬁciency and the economy of their operation, and greatly inﬂuence
standards of animal care. A well designed facility, properly main-
tained, is an essential element in good animal care.

It is likely that many new animal facilities will be built in the next
few years, and significant remodeling of existing quarters will occur.
Thus, the question of what constitutes proper facilities for laboratory
animals is an important one. In most institutions a research building
is the product of many compromises, and it is not always possible to
provide ideal solutions for inherently difﬁcult design problems. Never-
theless, careful planning can help to minimize these problems. This
section of the GUIDE deals with design. and construction features which
must be considered in the planning and operation of animal facilities.

A. Functional areas

The ultimate design, scope, and size of an animal facility depend on
the nature of the research activities, the number of animals to be
housed, and the geographical relationship to the rest of the institu—
tion. The following functional areas are considered essential in a
modern animal facility:

1. A separate building(s) ; a separate wing; one or more ﬂoors; or
separate rooms where animals can be housed apart from areas of
human occupancy. A sufﬁcient number of animal rooms or areas are
required to assure separation of species or isolation of individual proj-
ects; to provide for the receiving, quarantine, and isolation of animals;
and to provide for their routine and specialized housing.

2. Specialized laboratories or areas contiguous with or near the ani-
mal housing areas for activities such as surgery; necropsy; intensive
postsurgical care; roentgenography; preparation of special diets; and
for diagnosis, treatment and control of laboratory animal diseases.

3. Receiving and storage areas for food, bedding, supplies, and
equipment.

4. Ofﬁce(s) for administration, supervision, and direction of the
facility.

5. Showers, sinks, lockers, and toilets for personnel.

6. Area(s) for washing and sterlizing equipment and supplies. A
well equipped cleaning area includes facilities such as a cage washing

4

 




machine; bottle or glassware washing machine; rack washing ma-
chine u; area; waste can washing machine or area; utility sink(s) ;
autoclave(s) for equipment, food, and bedding; and separate areas
for holding soiled and clean equipment.

7. Incinerator capable of burning all animal waste and refuse; or
facilities for safe and sanitary storage of such waste prior to removal.

B. Service areas in relation to total size of the animal facilities

1. An area or areas equal in square feet to at least ‘25 percent of the
animal housing space should be set aside for the service functions of
the animal facility. The service functions include activities such as
cage washing and sterilization; storage; diagnostic lab-oratory; ofﬁce
activities; receiving and quarantining of animals; and refuse disposal.

2. Where an animal facility is 1,000 square feet or less in size, it may
be possible to carry out the service functions in an area(s) which
serves other activities in the building as well. However, a separate
facility for washing and sanitizing animal cages should be available.

3. In a facility up to 10,000 square feet in size, separate rooms or
areas should be provided for the following service activities:

( a.) Receipt and quarantine. of newly purchased animals.

(6) Receipt and storage of animal food and supp-lies, including
refrigeration.

(0) Cleaning. and sanitizing of cages and equipment.

( d) Incinerator or protected area for refuse.

(e) Lavatory facilities for personnel.

(f) Ofﬁce-(s) for supervisory and administrative personnel.

(9) Laboratory for director.

4. In institutions having several separate animal housing facilities,
or one large area, which total more than 10,000 square feet, rooms or
areas for all of the service functions listed in item 3 above should be
provided. In addition, diagnostic facilities or services for animal dis-
eases should be provided (sec. III.D., p. 22). Some duplication of
service areas may be required if the animal facilities are widely dis-
persed. However, if they are physically centralized such duplication
can be minimized.

C. Geographical relationship of animal facilities to research or
teaching laboratories

Animal housing areas support research and teaching laboratories.
Good animal husbandry and human comfort require physical separa-
tion of animal facilities and human occupancy areas such as oﬂices
and laboratories. This can be accomplished by locating the animal
quarters in a separate wing or on separate ﬂoors of a multistory build—
ing, or by providing a separate building(s) for animal housing. A
one-story building for animal housing permits the most efﬁcient and

5

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

economical animal care operation since vertical transport is avoided.
H0wever, it may be least desirable for research workers because of in-
accessibility to their laboratories. Eﬂiciency and- economy in utiliza-
tion of the research workers’ time must be considered in planning
animal facilities. Careful planning should make it possible to locate
the animal areas adjacent to or near laboratory areas, but physically
separated from them by barriers such as double door entries, separate
corridors, or separate ﬂoors.

D. Materials

Materials used in animal quarters should be equal to or superior to
those used in laboratory areas. They should conform to all applicable
building codes. Maintenance costs as well as initial construction costs
should be considered in selecting building materials; and materials
should be selected which will facilitate efﬁcient and hygienic operation
of the animal quarters. Durable, waterproof, ﬁre resistant, seamless
materials for interior surfaces are most desirable. Paints and glazes
should be highly resistant to chemical solvents, cleaning agents, and
scrubbing.

E. Corridors

Corridors should permit easy ﬂow of personnel and equipment; a
width between 5 and 8 feet is recommended. The ﬂoor-wall junction
should be coved to facilitate cleaning. A curb or guard railing
should be provided to protect walls from gouging by racks and carts.
Exposed corners should be protected by reinforcing with steel or other
durable material up to a height of 4: feet. Corridors leading to dog
kennels should be provided with a noise trap such as a double door
entry lock. Wherever possible, access to utilities such as waterlines,
drainpipes, and electrical connections should be through service panels
or shafts located in the corridors outside of the animal rooms.

F. Animal room doors

Animal room doors should open into the rooms, not into corridors.
They should be at least 3 feet wide, to permit easy passage of racks
and equipment. Metal or metal covered doors are preferred. They
should be equipped with kickplates and be self-closing. Recessed
handles are recommended. Viewing windows are desirable. Door

frames should be sealed completely to prevent their serving as vermin
traps. '

G. Exterior windows

Exterior windows in animal rooms are unnecessary. If windows
are provided they should preferably be nonopening, of a thermopane
construction (in areas of temperature extremes), and sealed with a

6

 

 




material which will withstand repeated washing and disinfection. If
windows are opened for ventilation purposes, effective screening is
essential.

H. Floors

Floors should be smooth, waterproof, nonslip, wear resistant, and
capable of carrying racks and equipment without gouging or pitting.
Depending upon the functions carried on in speciﬁc areas, terrazzo,
cupric oxychloride cement, smooth hard surfaced concrete, quarry or
ceramic tile, neoprene terrazzo, special hardened rubber base aggre-
gates, vinyl or vinyl. asbestos tiles, are satisfactory. Asphalt or other
absorbent materials are not satisfactory.

The piercing of waterproof ﬂoor membranes in animal rooms should
be avoided. If an object does pierce the membrane, a continuous
membrane ﬂashing should be provided around this object to a height
above the contiguous ﬂoor surface.

I. Walls

Walls should be waterproof, painted, glazed or smooth, free of
cracks or imperfect junctures at the ﬂoor, ceiling, corners, or utility
penetrations. Materials should be acid or solvent resistant, capable
of withstanding scrubbing with detergents and disinfectants. Glazed
structural masonry, ceramic tile, or cold glaze over masonry are pre-
ferred. Painted plaster or panel—type construction may be satis-
factory under some conditions, but a lack of structural rigidity may
lead to the breaking of any seal provided by paint or glaze.

J. Ceilings

Ceilings formed by the concrete ﬂoor above are satisfactory if prop—
erly smoothed, sealed, and painted. Furred ceilings of plaster or
ﬁre code plasterboard should be sealed and painted with washable
ﬁnish. Hung ceilings of absorbent or acoustical materials, or even
ceilings perforated for the diffusion of heat and air, are not objection-
able provided the Space above is maintained free from vermin. Ex-
posed pipes and ﬁxtures at ceiling level are undesirablein simian pri—
mate rooms because. of the problems created should monkeys escape
from their cages.

K. Ventilation, temperature and humidity control

1. Effective ventilation is necessary to maintain a low concentration
of atmospheric contaminants such as odors or pathogenic organisms,
to regulate room temperature, and to promote comfort. Factors of
importance in proper ventil ation are temperature, humidity, and the
movement of air.

 

 




 

 

 

*2. If animals are housed outdoors with no access to indoor facilities,
provisions to aid their natural temperature regulation are essential.
When the ambient temperature falls below 50° F., some form of
shelter and clean nesting materials should be provided. Materials
such as shavings, straw, paper, or rags can be used. When the ambient
temperature exceeds 85° F., animals should be able to burrow, or lie on
materials several degrees cooler than the surrounding air; or effective
shade should be available.

3. A mechanical ventilation system is necessary in most indoor
facilities. Air conditioning is highly recommended since it promotes
environmental stability. Ideally, the ventilation system should. per--
mit individual adjustments within i2° F. for any temperature within
a range of 65° to 85° F. Relative humidity should be maintained
within a range of 40 to 60 percent. The animal facility and human
occupancy areas should be ventilated separately. The system should
provide frequent changes of room air without drafts. A minimum of
10 to 15 changw per hour are recommended. There should be no
recirculation of room air. Temperature and humidity should be con—
trolled individually in each animal room. An acceptable alternate is
to provide area control with limited recirculation of room air. A
general area operation at 74° i 3° F. and 50$ 10 percent relative
humidity, using 100 percent fresh air during temperate weather
and 50 percent fresh air during periods of temperature extremes is
acceptable for situations where routine housing of animals is the pri-
mary requirement.

4. Maintenance of a given room temperature within even closer
tolerances such as i 1° F., and of relative humidity within 5 percent,
using 100 percent fresh air at all times, may be required for certain
experiments. For example, where precise environmental studies are
in progress, such controls may be essential. In such rooms recording
devices for temperature and humidity should be installed, together
with a failure alarm system.

5. Provision for air dilution (general ventilation), exhausting of
room air, and air movement is essential in maintaining a low concen—
tration of atmospheric impurities in animal rooms, and in accelerating
evaporative heat losses beneﬁcial to comfort.

The concentration of odors or hazardous particles is not reduced
efficiently simply by dilution due to an increase in air changes per
hour. A more effective procedure is to remove the source of con-
tamination from the animal room.

In a room having no forced ventilation, where circulation depends
on the gravity of air of different humidity and temperature, at least
two ventilation openings are necessary. They should be situated in
opposite sections of the room, one higher than the other. At least 1
square foot each of air inlet and outlet should be provided for each 20
dogs, 80 cats, 400 rats, or 4,000 mice.

 




In heated, but not air-conditioned facilities, a minimum of 10 to 15
air changes per hour should be provided. During summer as many
as .30 changes per hour may be required. However, no evaporation
or heat reduction takes place in saturated air whose temperature is
higher than an animal’s body temperature, regardless of the velocity
of air.

In air-conditioned facilities 8 to 15 air changes per hour are con-
sidered adequate for comfort. Rapid motion of air to provide evapo-
rative cooling is more efﬁciently achieved by the use of auxiliary fans
moving the air within the space than by an increase in the number of
conditioned air changes. The ability to maintain} odor free facilities
depends upon the number and species of animals housed and‘on the
sanitation practices as well as on. the ventilating system.

L. Power and lighting

The electrical system should provide ample lighting, sufﬁcient power
outlets, safety provisions such as high sparkproof outlets in. rooms
where volatile, explosive anesthetics may be used, and Waterproof
outlets where water is used in cleaning.

Lighting should be uniformly diffused throughout the area to be
served. Although 10 to 15 foot-candles of light are considered sufﬁ-
cient to maintain vital animal activity and rhythms, at least 30 foot-
candles are necessary for ordinary servicing of animal rooms. For
most animal housing areas, a lighting intensity of 35 to 50 foot-candles
at the level of the cage racks is recommended. Animal treatment
and examination areas should have a minimum of 50 foot-candles
at the work surface.

Recessed ﬂuorescent lamps, sealed within the ceiling, are excellent.
Incandescent or ﬂuorescent lamps ‘in tightly sealed ﬁxtures hung
from the ceiling are adequate. No covers should be placed on light
ﬁxtures unless they are properly sealed, to provent their serving as
vermin traps.

Adoption of a standard daylight equivalent is recommended in
windowless animal facilities. This can be accomplished by providing
a centrally controlled, timed, off-on lighting system; or by attaching
a simple timer to the light switch in each animal room.

Provision should be made for emergency lighting and power in the
event of a power failure.

M. Drainage

All waste ﬁxtures and equipment shouldbe connected through traps
to soil and waste pipes and to the sewer. If ﬂoor drains are used the
drainpipes should not be less-than 4 inches in diameter. In heavy
use areas such as dog kennels, 6-inch diameter drains are recom-
mended. A ﬂushing drain, much like an ordinary toilet bowl set

9

 

 




 

 

 

in the ﬂoor, is an effective aid in the disposal of solid waste. A porous
trap bucket to screen out solid waste provides an effective alternative
to removal of solid materials through the drain. All drainpipes
should have short runs to the main, or they should be steep-1y pitched
from the opening. When drains are not in use they should be capped
and sealed to prevent backﬂow of sewer gases. Lockable drain covers
are useful in preventing use of the drains for disposal of materials
which should be swept up and removed by other means.

Floor drains are not essential in animal rooms for species such as
rats, mice, or hamsters. Floors in such rooms can be maintained
satisfactorily by wet vacuuming, or by sweeping and mopping with
appropriate disinfectants or cleaning compounds. If drains are used,
the ﬂoor should pitch towards the drain about 1 inch in 12 feet. Prop-
er pitching of the ﬂoor is an essential element in establishing good
drainage in animal rooms; and particular attention should be paid to
this detail in planning animal facilities.

N. Storage areas: FoodI and bedding; refuse; equipment

In areas where delivery schedules are reliable, the amount of space
required for food and bedding storage can be held to a'minimum. The
best utilization. is achieved by maintaining constant turnover so that
stored items are always “fresh.”

Bulk supplies of food and bedding should not be stored in animal
rooms. A separate area(s) or room(s) should be available in which
food and bedding can be stored off the ﬂoor on pallets, racks, or carts.
A continuing pest control program is essential; but it is most desirable
to have the storage areas rodent-,Vﬂyy and vermin-proof.

Food storage areas should be physically separated from refuse areas.
Temperatures in the storage rooms may be the ambient temperature.
HoWever, it is good practice to hold packaged animal feeds (pellet
rations) at 50° F. or less. Refrigerated storage should be available for
meats, fruits, vegetables, and other perishable items.

Refuse storage areas should preferably be kept below 45° F. to
reduce putrefaction of waste or animal carcasses. Obnoxious mate-
rials should be covered or packaged. The area should be constructed
so it can be kept clean and free of rodents, ﬂies, and vermin.

Dead storage and equipment storage does not require special men-
tion except to indicate that availability of such space is essential in
preventing “clutter” in animal rooms.

0. Noise control

Noise is inherent in the operation of animal facilities, both from
the animals and animal-care routines. Noise may be undesirable
because of its effects on personnel, and on the animals themselves.
Inasmuch as background and “operational” noise is an environmental

'IO




factor 1n the control of animal experiments, it should be considered 1n
the design of animal facilities.

Ordinarily, species such as rats, mice, guinea pigs,and hamsters, do
not create disturbing noise in animal facilities. Cats and chickens are
seldom a problem. Noise from a monkey colony can be troublesome.
However, dogs invariably are the cause of unwelcome noise. Barking
is disturbing to personnel working inside and out of the animal facil—
ities. It may also pose important public relations problems if resi-
dences are near the laboratory.

The physical separation of human and animal occupancy areas is
the best way to minimize disturbances to laboratory personnel from
the sounds of animals and animal-care routines. Within animal facil-
ities noisy activities such as cage washing and refuse disposal should
be carried out in rooms or areas separate from the animal housing
areas. Unwelcome noise from animal-care routines can be minimized
by appropriate indoctrination and training of personnel; by using
rubber tired casters and rubber bumpers on carts, trucks, and racks;
and by removing major cage—cleaning activities from animal rooms
to areas speciﬁcally designed for this purpose.

The use of sound reducing materials in animal rooms can be helpful.
Concrete walls are more effective than metal or plaster walls in con—
taining sound. Acoustical materials may be used in animal rooms by
direct application to the ceiling, or as part of a suspended ceiling,
providing the rooms are vermin—proof. Elimination of windows also
helps to contain sound.

Where dogs are housed outdoors such as on the roof of a building,
barking sounds can be directed upward by appropriate bafﬂing of the
surrounding parapet area. This procedure is helpful only when
there are no taller buildings nearby.

P—. Facilities for washing and sterilizing equipment and supplies

An area for washing and sterilization is essential to keep equip-
ment physically clean, to reduce obnoxious odors, to minimize the
spread of infectious diseases, and to provide for the comfort of experi—
mental animals. The washing and sterilizing activity is best con—
ducted outside of the animal rooms in an area (s) speciﬁcally designed
for the purpose. Consideration should be given to factors such as:

1. Location with respect to animal rooms, trafﬁc ﬂow, elevators,
and ease of access.

2. Soundprooﬁng.

3. Facilities such as hot and cold water, steam, ﬂoor drains, and
lighting.

4. Proximity to cage and equipment storage areas. It is good
practice to provide separate holding areas for soiled and clean
equipment.

681135 0—63——3 l l

 

 

 




 

 

 

5. Insulation of walls and ceilings where necessary.
6. Ventilation with installation of proper vents and provisions
for dissipation of steam.

The use of an animal cage-washing machine is highly recommended
unless disposable cages are used. The machine should provide both
wash and rinse cycles, preferably with ﬂexible time settings for each.
An automatic detergent dispenser is recommended. Either the wash
or rinse cycle, or both, should be conducted at not less than 180° F.
to assure destruction of all pathogenic organisms except spore formers.
Cultures of “cleaned” cages should be taken periodically to assure the
adequacy of the washing routine. A properly functioning machine
should render the equipment essentially sterile. In practice, all soiled
cages should be considered potential sources of organisms infective for
animals in the colony.

If no machine is available, hand washing of small cages can be ac—
complished in a large sink or tub, using appropriate detergents, dis-
infectants, and vigorous scrubbing.

Large pieces of equipment may have to be washed by hand. How-
ever, portable cleaners which dispense detergent and hot water or
steam under pressure may be helpful. Some institutions use a booth
in the cage-washing area for rack washing. Such an area serves well
when equipped with hot and cold water, steam, and a detergent dis-
penser. It should be specially vented to exhaust the steam. Where
the size of the animal facility war rants the investment (generally in
facilities larger than 10,000 square feet), a large washing machine for.
racks, dog cages, and similar large pieces of equipment is useful.

A bottle-washing machine is recommended if large numbers of
water bottles are used (generally in facilities larger than 10,000 square
feet). Some cage-washing machines may also be used for this pur-
pose. If bottles are washed by hand, powered rotating brushes located
at the washing sink are useful. If hand washed, provision should be
made for dipping or soaking water bottles in detergent and disin-
fectant solutions. A two-compartment sink or tub for this purpose is
adequate.

An autoclave for equipment and supplies in the cage-washing area
is recommended. Use of an autoclave for animal cages is essential
where pathogenic agents are under investigation (sec. Q, p. 13.)
In certain specialized facilities such as in production colonies of
caesarean derived, deﬁned environment animals, autoclaving or other
forms of sterilization of food and bedding may be necessary. How-
ever, routine sterilization of food and bedding is not considered essen-
tial if care is taken to use clean materials from reliable sources.

12

 




0. Special facilities needed for biological safety in infectious-disease
units

The materials used in the construction of infectious disease units
and other animal facilities are similar. However, in the design of
infectious areas, the need Ifbr effective isolation is obviously of greater
importance; especially where diseases transmissible to man are under
investigation. An infectious disease unit. shOuld be separate from
holding areas for normal animals. The unit should be close to or
part of the laboratory where the work is being done; either in a
separate building or in an isolated part of a larger building.

Several special facilities should be incorporated into infectious—
disease units to aid in the protection of personnel and to prevent
cross infection among animals in the colony:

1. Separate locker rooms for the storage of clean street clothing
and the removal of contaminated laboratory clothing, with a shower
in between.

2. Air lock entry to the infectious disease unit; preferably with
an ultraviolet light barrier within the lock.

3. Autoclave(s) to sterilize cages, bedding, watering devices, feeders,
and waste before cleaning or removal. Some institutions place double
door autoclaves in a wall between the animal room and the cage—
washing room or corridor. This makes it possible to sterilize equip-
ment and supplies entering or leaving the room, and establishes a
ﬂow system from “contaminated” to “clean.” Automatic interlocks
may be used to prevent the door on the clean side from being opened
until a sterilization cycle is completed. If equipment is sterilized
before it leaves the infectious disease unit, it may be washed in a
machine serving other areas. However, in large units, a separate
washing area should be provided.

4. Animal roomsgin infectious disease units should be ventilated
under negative pressure with respect to corridors or adjoining non—
infectious areas. Ten to ﬁfteen changes per hour of conditioned air
generally are sufﬁcient for all needs. There should be no recircula-
tion of room air in infectious areas.

Coarse ﬁltration of the supply air (bacterial ﬁltration efﬁciency
of 20 to 50 percent) may be needed if there is‘a signiﬁcant load of
pollen, mold, dust, or smoke in the outside air.

Exhaust air from the units should be ﬁltered. Spun-glass ﬁlters
having an efficiency of 99 percent or greater are recommended. It‘ is
important that the ﬁlter frame be sealed tightly in the plenum cham—
ber to prevent leakage of unﬁltered air. Electronic precipitation is
effective but the maintenance cost of this system is high. Frequent
servicing is necessary to maintain rated ﬁltration effectiveness. In-
cineration is another effective air treatment system. However, it is
expensive, except when the volume to be incinerated is small (75 to

13

 

 




 

 

 

90 cubic feet per minute or less). Large oil- or gas-ﬁred incinerators
are feasible to sterilize large volumes of air containing highly in-
fectious organisms. Ordinarily, incineration of air is unnecessary,
except in the highest risk areas, such as when dangerous aerosols are
used.

5. Special rack and caging systems may be helpful, depending on
the organism under study and the mode of exposure of the experi—
mental animals. Ultraviolet lamps and reﬂectors have been found
helpful in controlling airborne spread of infections between cages.
They should be attached in a horizontal position at both ends of each
cage rack shelf to provide a band of radiation across the top of the
cages. The radiations are effective in reducing the escape of airborne
vegetative organisms from animal cages. They are not as effective
against bacterial spores. Ultraviolet lamps should be effectively
shielded to protect animals and personnel from eye damage. Pro-
tective goggles for personnel are recommended.

Several types of ventilated cages are available. Ventilated cages
are useful where airborne organisms are under investigation. Venti-
lated lids can be made to ﬁt ordinary animal cages. This entails
the use of airtightg gaskets around the rim of the lid, an exhaust pipe
which can be connected to a central exhaust system, and an air intake
equipped with a Fiberglas ﬁlter. More complex units such as Hors-
fall cubicles or ﬂexible ﬁlm isolators may also serve usefully for this
type of work.

6. Ventilated cabinets or hoods are recommended for the inoculation
of animals with infectious organisms and for necropsy of infected
animals. These should be equipped with viewing windows, glove
ports, lights, and service piping for gas, air, water, and vacuum. A
250-cubic-feet—per-minute air ﬁlter to exhaust air from the cabinet
will serve effectively except for the most hazardous types of infectious
disease research. With this system a high velocity airﬂow into the
cabinet is essential for safety.

7. Disinfectant vaporizers are helpful in decontaminating an ani-
mal room following conclusion of experiments and removal of all
animals. The room should be sealed, 1 milliliter of 37 percent formal-
dehyde should be vaporized for each cubic foot of airspace, and allowed
to act for 6 to 8 hours. Room temperature should be at least 7 0°
and relative humidity 80 percent during the decontamination pro—
cedure. Beta propiolactone, used 111 the same way as formaldehyde
in a concentration of 800 milligrams per cubic foot, is also an eﬁective
air and surface decontaminant.

Ancillary facilities such as sinks and hose bibs in iooms housing
111fected animals are recommended to facilitate cleaning and
disinfection.

'l4

 

 

 




R. Special requirements for radiation safety

Radiation safety is a fundamental obligation in housing radioactive
animals. Where hazardous radionuclides are used, pro-vision must be
made for the protection of personnel and of animals not involved in
the experimental program.

1. An area(s) shouldbe provided for housing radioactive animals
apart from other experimental animals. This may be done by holding
such animals in well ventilated hoods designed for this purpose, or
by treating the entire holding room as a hood. If high levels of
gamma emitters are to be used (100 to 1,000 megacycles), the base of
the hood should support lead shielding weighing approximately 1 ton.
The rate of airﬂow in the hood should be 50 to 80 linear feet per
minute. Service outlets should be located outside of the hood to
reduce exposure and spread of contamination.

2. To protect against radioactive contamination of animal rooms,
all surfaces should be nonporous and easily washable. Cracks and
crevices should be sealed. Strippable materials applied to walls and
ﬂoors are recommended. Rubber or vinyl tiles, or linoleum, applied
over a concrete ﬂoor will provide adequate protection since these
materials are nonporous and can be lifted if necessary. Epoxy resin
paints or surfacing materials will seal plaster walls. effectively if prop-
erly applied.

3. To facilitate decontamination, stainless steel is recommended for
animal cages and sinks in preference to galvanized steel, porcelain, or
soapstone. Rough surfaces such as nonsmooth welds, which are difﬁ—
cult to decontaminate, should be avoided.

4. Work surfaces such as benchtops and the interior of animal-
holding hoods should be covered with strippable coatings. These will
protect the surfaces adequately when low levels of activity are used
(up to 2 megaCycles of activity). Where radioactivity levels are in—
termediate or high, stainless steel trays should be used to cover the
bench top and ﬂoor of the hood.

5. Personnel must be protected during animal injection procedures.
Syringes should be covered with a plastic shield when using up to
several millicuries of beta emitters. For injection of low levels of
gamma emitters, the syringe should be covered with lead or steel
shields. However, for higher levels the entire operation should be
performed by remote control. Similarly, remote control devices are
recommended for oral administration of highly radioactive materials.

6. Facilities for disposal of radioactive animal waste: ,

(a) Radioactive waste-s may be diluted with the air by release in
hood efﬂuents. Volatile wastes in combustible materials may
be released by incineration, providing insoluble particulates
of high speciﬁc activity are not permitted to escape in the ‘
effluent. Incineration also is a means of reducing the bulk

15

 




 

 

 

 

 

16

of nonvolatile materials to about 20 percent of their original
weight. 'Small numbers of animals containing small amounts
of radionuclides are readily disposed of by incineration.
Large numbers may require concentration by incineration
or other means, followed by special disposition, such as deep
burial or disposal at sea.

(b) Liquid and water soluble waste can usually be disposed of by

(0)

(d)

dilution in the sewer system. When this method of disposal
is used, the possibility of reconcentration within the diluting
medium must be considered as well as the expected dilution
within the sewer system. The quantities disposed of should
be controlled so that hazards are not presented to sanitation
and sewage plant personnel.

Storage facilities for radioactive animal carcasses and excreta
should be provided until the activity is reduced sufﬁciently
for disposal by dilution, or until they can be disposed of as
ordinary stable wastes. Such wastes should be monitored by
the institutional radiation safety ofﬁcer. Special shielding
of the storage area may be required. To minimize waste
control and disposal problems, the smallest animal capable of
fulﬁlling the experimental requirements shoud be used.
Mechanical washing equipment should be of a type which
will facilitate decontamination of cage equipment and will
not itself accumulate radioactive waste. For example, radio-
active cages Should not be washed in machines which re-
circulate the wash solution.

 

 

 




 

: . _ . .

 

 

Ill. Laboratory Animal Housing and Care

Comfortable housing is another essential element in good animal
care. Comfort depends on a variety of subjective and objective factors
which interact differently in different institutions. Accordingly, it
is impossible to develop a single deﬁnition of comfortable housing
which is applicable to all institutions. Experienced animal-care
workers know that the well-being of animals is not entirely dependent
on a modern physical plant and the newest housing equipment. VVell-
trained personnel frequently can overcome physical deﬁciencies to
assure high quality animal care. Therefore, for the purposes of the
GUIDE, comfortable housing is deﬁned as any system of management,
care, and housing which permits animals to grow, mature, reproduce,
and behave normally in the laboratory, and to be maintained in good
health. Some of the speciﬁc. considerations which give meaning to
this deﬁnition are outlined in this section.

A. Housing
1. Criteria for evaluating a caging 07' housing system

The caging or housing system perhaps is the most important single
element in the physical environment for laboratory animals. Inas-
much as the well-being of the animals and the control of experiments
are inﬂuenced by this environmental factor, the housing system should
always be designed with care. The adequacy of any caging or housing
system may be evaluated on the basis of the following criteria :

(a) The system should meet the investigator’s research require-
ments. Thus, animals may need to be housed singly or in
groups; in cages, runs, or pens.

(b) The system should be designed with the animals’ physical
comfort as a primary consideration. Rarely are the require—
ments of research incompatible with physical comfort.

(0) Physical comfort, as applied speciﬁcally to the housing sys-
tem, includes factors such as keeping the animal .dry and
clean; maintaining the animal in a state of relative thermal
neutrality; providing sufﬁcient space to assure freedom of
movement; providing convenient access to food and water,
and assuring their delivery to the animal in a clean form; and,
if animals are group housed, maintaining them in compatible
groups and avoiding overcrowding.

17

 




 

 

 

( d) The system should be‘ compatible with the maintenance of the
animals in good health. Factors such as maintenance of nor-
mal body weight and ability to prevent spread of communi-
cable diseases among adjoining housing or caging units are
important.

(6) The system should be designed to facilitate effective sanitary
maintenance and technical servicing. For example, bends
and crevices in animal cages, which may be difﬁcult to clean,
should be avoided; the system should be capable of easy and
complete cleaning; feeders and watering devices should be
easily accessible for ﬁlling or changing.

(f) Cages, runs, and pens should be kept in good repair to pre—
vent injury to the animal(s) and to promote physical com—
fort. Particular attention should be paid to avoiding sharp
corners and edges or broken Wires; and maintaining cage
ﬂoors in good condition to prevent the animals’ feet from
being cut or caught.

2. Exercise

One of the most widely debated questions in the ﬁeld of animal care
concerns the need for “exercise” in the housing of laboratory animals,
most speciﬁcally in the housing of dogs. The concept of “exercise”
frequently is confused with that of cage size by animal welfare groups.
A “small” cage is equated with lack of “exercise” and physical dis-
comfort; while a “large” cage, a pen, or a run is equated with “exer-
cise” and physical well-being. Scientists know that the size of the
cage does not necessarily inﬂuence the amount of “exercise” an animal
receives, or its well-being. Nevertheless this semantic confusion about
“exercise” is widespread and widely fostered by some lay groups.
The general public is undoubtedly interested in this question, as evi-
denced by efforts of proponents of Federal legislation to regulate
animal experimentation, to incorporate an “exercise” requirement in
the proposed laws. A rational approach to this question is possible
only in the framework of a speciﬁc deﬁnition.

For the purposes of the GUIDE “exercise” is deﬁned as any physical
activity calculated to restore, maintain, or improve vigor and health.
On this basis, whether animals are “exercised,” and what form it
"should take, is a matter of professional judgment which is best left to
the director of animal care. If exercise is needed it may be provided
in any of several ways such as by use of a treadmill or exercise wheel,
by walking animals on a leash, by providing access to runs, or by
releasing animals from their cages in the animal room.

With respect to the routine housing of dogs there are practical rea-
sons for providing pens, runs, or other “out of cage” space in addition
to individual cages. Cages are necessary and useful for intensive

 

 

 

 




 

 

postsurgical care, for isolation of sick animals, for metabolic studies,
and for short-term holding of dogs (1 to 3 months). On the other
hand, if animals are held for longer than 3 months, their physical
comfort can be maintained more easily if runs or pens are provided.
Runs or pens also provide a convenient place in which to hold dogs
while their cages are cleaned. When dogs are allowed out of their
cages regularly, sanitary maintenance of the cages is simpliﬁed.
Finally, the availability of runs or pens makes possible the housing of
dogs in compatible groups.

To summarize, whether animals should receive exercise as a routine
aspect of housing, is a matter of professional judgment. Whether
animals should be housed in cages or runs also is a matter of profes—
sional judgment, based on the previously mentioned criteria for evalu—
ating animal housing systems. As a practical matter, however, there
are reasons for providing both cages and pens or runs in the routine
maintenance of dogs in the laboratory.

Similar considerations should apply in evaluating the need for
“exercise” by other species.

3. Space recommendations for laboratory animals

The size of a cage, pen, or run, and the number of animals to be
housed in each, are matters of professional and scientific judgment.
The recommendations below are arbitrary; but they represent the
best judgment of experienced animal—care workers as to a reasonable
space allocation for the routine, long-term housing of animals of the.
weights indicated in table I. They are included here simply as a
guide, and their incompleteness is acknowledged. As has been
stressed in this section, the adequacy of any housing system must be
evaluated in each institution by the professional director of animal
care in terms of the previously mentioned criteria.

B. Sanitation practices
.7. Cleanliness

(a) The animal facility should be kept clean. This means that a
regular schedule of sanitary maintenance is necessary.

(5) Animal rooms, corridors, storage areas, and other parts of the
animal facility should be washed, scrubbed, vacuumed, mopped,
or swept, 118ng appropriate detergents and disinfectants, as
often as necessary to keep them free of dirt, debris, and harmful
contamination. A continuing objective should be to keep these
areas neat and uncluttered.

(0) If litter or bedding is used in animal cages or pens, it. should
be changed as often as necessary to keep the animals dry and
clean, and to minimize offensive odors. For simple maintenance
of small rodents such as rats, mice, or hamsters, 1 to 3 such
changes per week ordinarily should sufﬁce. For larger species

19

 




 

such as dogs, cats, and simian primates, daily changing of cage
or pen litter may be necessary.

TABLE |.—-Suggested space for the routine housing of laboratory

 

 

 

 

 

animals
Overall size (inches) 11:111:11} Housing area/animal
er 0
Species Weight Type of housing animals
Width Depth Height Square Cubic
feet feet
Dog _____________ 15 kg-_- _ Pen _________________ 48 72 ________ 3 8 __________
30 kg-- - - ..... do ______________ 48 72 ________ 2 12 ...........
15 kg__- - Run ----------------- 48 144 -------- 6 8 ----------
30 kg--- _ ----- do ______________ 48 144 --------- 4 12 ____________
15 kg_-_- Cage 1 ---------------- 36 32 32 l 8 21. 3
30 kg_- _ - ----- do -------------- 48 36 36 1 12 36
Simian primate-_ 4—5 kg-- - ----- do~ _____________ 24 24 30 1 4 10
Cat - ------------ 4 kg ---------- do - ------------- 18 24 24 1 3 6
4 kg ..... Group cage or pen__ 36 48 72 4—6 3 18
Rabbit ----------- 4 kg ----- Cage ---------------- 18 24 16 1 3 3
Guinea pig ------ 350 g_ _ -- Individual cage ----- 8 12 8 1 0.7 O. 4
Group cage --------- 14 20 8 2—4 0.5 0.3
Rat ------------- 250 g_ - - - Individual cage_ - - -- 8 12 8 1—3 0. 2—0. 7 0. 1—0. 4
Group cage _ _ - - - - _ -_ 14 20 8 4—10 0. 2—0. 5 0. 1-0. 3
Mouse ---------- 20 g_ _ - _ - Small group cage-- - - 8 12 5 1 -6 0. 1-0. 7 0. 04—0. 2
Large group cage---- 12 18 5 10—20 0. 05—0. 1 0. 03—0. 06
Chicken --------- 3 kg ----- Individual cage_ - - _- 18 24 18 1 3 4. 5
Group cage- _ - ..--- -_ 36 24 18 4 1. 5 2. 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 As a further general guide the cage dimensions should be: (a) The height of the dog at the withers plus at
least 6 inches (height). (1)) The length of the dog from the tip of the nose to the base of the tail plus at least
6 inches (width or depth).

(d) Cages or pens from which animal waste is removed by hosing or
ﬂushing should be cleaned daily or oftener. This system may
require removal of the animals during servicing in order to keep
them dry.

Animal cages, racks, and accessory equipment such as feeders and
water bottles, should be washed and sanitized as often as necessary
to keep them physically clean and free of harmful micro—
organisms. Ordinarily, this can be achieved by washing the cages
and accessories once or twice weekly, and the racks every other
week. In addition, cages should always be sanitized before new
animals are placed in them. It is good practice to have extra
cages available at all times to permit maintenance of a systematic
cage-washing schedule. To reiterate a point made in section II.P.
(p. 11), the washing or rinsing, or both, should be conducted at a
temperature of 180° F. or higher to assure destruction of all
pathogenic organisms except spore formers. If this temperature
cannot be attained, washing of equipment should be followed by
appropriate disinfection, using an effective disinfectant.

Waste containers and implements should be maintained in a sani—
tary condition. It is good practice to wash each waste can every
time it is emptied. As with animal cages, the minimum wash or

 

v

(e

(f)

20

 

 

 

 




rinse temperature, or both, should be 180° F. Similarly, clean-

,ing implements such as scrapers, shovels, and mops should be
sanitized regularly.

2. Sanitary waste disposal

(a) All waste should be collected and disposed of in a safe, sanitary
manner. If waste cans are used, they should be made of metal or
plastic, be leakproof, and equipped with tight-ﬁtting lids. It 'is
good practice to use leakproof disposable containers such as plas-
tic sacks or lined paper bags in conjunction with waste cans, for
disposal of animal tissues and carcasses.

(5) Highly infectious wastes should be rendered noninfectious, by
autoclaving or other effective means, before removing them from
the animal facility.

(0) Waste materials should be removed on a regular, frequent
schedule. If storage of waste prior to removal is necessary, the
holding area should be physically separate from other storage
facilities, and free from ﬂies, cockroaches, rodents, and other pests.

5’. Vermin and rodent control

(a) Cockroaches, ﬂies, bedbugs, escaped or wild rodents, and similar
pests, consitute a menace in any animal facility. Their elimination
or effective control should be considered mandatory.

(5) Freedom from these pests can be assured in new construction by
careful inspection of the building before it is occupied. Effec-
tive control, and ultimate elimination, can be: attained in older
buildings, even where heavy infestation has oCcurred. This can
be accomplished by sealing or eliminating all breeding sites, and
by using pesticides or trapping procedures in conjunction with a
strict program of sanitary maintenance.

4. Personal hygiene

(a) The maintenance of high standards of personal cleanliness among
animal colony personnel is obligatory. Comfort facilities neces-
sary to meet this obligation should be provided.

(b) To aid in maintaining a. high standard of personal hygiene, lab—
oratory clothing suitable for use in the animal facility should be
provided. This clothing should be changed as often as necessary
to enable personnel to maintain a neat and clean appearance.
Lockers or other suitable facilities should be available for stor-
age of street clothing during the workday.

(0) Personnel working in animal facilities should receive regular
physical examinations including appropriate diagnostic tests for
diseases communicable between laboratory animals and man such
as tuberculosis; and protective immunizing agents such as tetanus
toxoid.

 

 

21

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C. Feeding, watering and‘ identification of laboratory animals

I. Feeding

All laboratory animals should have access to feed daily according
to their particular requirements. The food should be clean, free of
contaminants, palatable, and nutritious. It should be fed in amounts
suﬂicient to assure normal growth in immature animals, and mainte-
nance of normal body weight in adults.

2. Watering

All laboratory animals should have access to water daily, according
to their particular requirements. Ordinarily, drinking water should
be available at all times. \Vatering devices such as drinking tubes and
spouts, and automatic waterers should, be examined routinely to as-
sure their patency.

3. I dentiﬂeation

Laboratory animals should be identiﬁed by appropriate means such
as by placing identiﬁcation cards in the animal rooms, on cages, or on
the racks; by use of collars or bands on the animals, or by other appro—
priate means. Identiﬁcation cards should include items such as the
name and location of the responsible investigator, and any special in—
structions to animal-care personnel concerning the animals.

D. Diagnosis, control, and treatment of animal diseases .

1. All laboratory animals should be observed frequently for clinical
signs of illness, injury, or abnormal behavior by a person capable of
recognizing such signs (see sec. I, p. 2). Clinical signs of illness in—
clude debility, anorexia, weight loss; listlessness, diarrhea, cyanosis,
dyspnea, and similar indicators. It is good practice to observe dogs,
cats, and simian primates daily for such signs; and other species at
least 1 to 3 times weekly under ordinary circumstances. All deviations
from normal, and deaths from unknown causes, should be reported
promptly to the person responsible for animal disease control.

2. Professionally qualiﬁed persons should direct the control and
treatment of nonexperimentally induced animal diseases and other
abnormal conditions (see sec. I, p. 2) . .

3. Animals which develop abnormalities, rendering them unsuitable
for laboratory purposes while in such conditions, should be treated or
painlessly killed.

4. To facilitate proper diagnosis of abnormal, conditions, laboratory
facilities or services should be available for diagnostic procedures.
These include facilities or services for the physical examination of
animals and for necropsy; for histological and pathological examina-
tion of animal tissues; for handling, isolating, and identifying speciﬁc
pathogens (viral, bacterial, mycotic, and parasitic) ; for routine and
speciﬁc laboratory procedures (hematology, roentgeno-gra-phy, urinaly-

22

 

 




 

 

 

sis, speciﬁc immunologic tests); and for inoculating test animals un-
der suitable isolation conditions.

5. The general approach to the control and treatment of animal
diseases and other abnormalities should include such factors as. appro-
priate quarantine and isolation of animals (sec. III. E. ,below) control
of animal quality by procui ement f1 om reliable sources (sec. III. E. ) ,
proper sanitation practices 1n the animal facility (sec. III. B. ,.p 19);

and speciﬁc procedures to break the disease cycle as directed by the
person responsible for disease control.

E. Quarantine and isolation of animals

For the purposes of the GUIDE “quarantine” is deﬁned as the segrega-
tion of newly received animals apart from animals already in use.
“Isolation” is the segregation of animals suspected or known to be
diseased, from animals which are in good health.

1. Newly received animals should be quarantined until their health
status has been evaluated.

2. The duration of quarantine may vary according to the species
used and the purpose(s) for which they are used. For species such. as
rats, mice, rabbits, and hamsters, when obtained from reliable sources,
the quarantine may be limited to the time necessary for competent in-
spection. For these and similar species the control of quality at the
source, and knowledge of the environmental history of the animals are
effective adjuncts to quarantine within the institution. Where the
environmental history of the animals 1s unknown, such as is commonly
the case with shipments of dogs, cats, and simian pr imates, a more com-
plete quarantine should be employed, including procedures such as
are recommended below. These procedures may take as little as 7
days or as long as 6 weeks to complete. '

3. All animals should be inspected on arrival. If any animals are
found to be in poor health, their management should be according to
the recommendations in section III.D., page 22.

4. Animals intended for use in terminal studies, as in student demon-
strations, should be clean and free of ectoparasitcs which may impair
their health or comfort and render them unsuitable for such studies.
It IS gOOd practice not to permit entry of such animals into the regular
animal facilities prior to use.

5. Animals intended for use in long- -term studies should be con-
ditioned. At the discretion of the director of animal care, condition-
mg Should include any or all of the following piocedures:

(a) Physical examination of the animals 011 arrival, including
any necessary clinical and laboratory diagnostic tests for
communicable diseases.

( 5) Veterinary care and treatment. including removal of ecto- and
endo-parasites, and other speciﬁc prophylactic or therapeu-

23

 




 

 

 

 

 

tic procedures, such as immunizations, as necessary to protect
against communicable diseases.

(0) Adaptation to the laboratory diet, including supplemental
feeding if necessary to restore normal body weight.

(d) Observation of animals within the quarantine area until their
freedom from signs of communicable disease is assured.

( e) Grooming procedures such as bathing, dipping, drying, and
clipping. ‘

6. Should a nonexperimen‘tally induced communicable disease (s)
break out during the course of a study, the animal (s) involved should
be isolated from animals which are in good health. Management of
such diseased animals should be according to the recommendations in
section III.D., page 22. It is good practice to provide a separate room
for such animals, and to manage their care so as to minimize or prevent
direct or indirect contact with healthy animals.

F. Animal surgery and postsurgical care
1. Facilities, equipment, and supplies

If surgery is performed, appropriate facilities and equipment should
be provided. The area(s) should be operated in accordance with
accepted surgical practice. Ordinary laboratory facilities can be util-
ized for nonsterile, terminal procedures, and for so—called “clean sur-
gery” on small animals such as rats, mice, and hamsters. Aseptic
surgery can be performed in a laboratory area if the laboratory is
suitably prepared and equipped. However, if aseptic surgery is per-
formed routinely, especially on dogs, cats, or simian primates, an
area(s) speciﬁcally designed for this purpose should be provided. A
well equipped area for aseptic surgery on these species should contain
or have access to facilities, equipment, and supplies such as:

(a) An autoclave or other effective equipment for sterilization of
instruments, linens, gloves, gowns, and similar items.

(2)) Scrub sink(s) for surgical preparation.

(0) Operating tables, instrument stands, and tables.

(d) Operating light(s) of sufﬁcient power to assure clear vis-
ualization of the operative ﬁeld.

(6) Instrument and linen packs appropriate for each surgical
procedure.

(f) Instruments and equipment for tracheal intubation and arti-
ﬁcial respiration.

(9) Caps and masks for personnel during operative procedures.

(h) Kick buckets, laundry hampers, and other equipment as
necessary for hygienic protection and maintenance.

(i) Whole blood, ﬂuids, vasopressors, antibiotics, and other sup-

portive drugs which may be needed during surgical pro-
cedures.

24

 




 

2. Operating rules

(a)

(5)

(0)

A facility for aseptic surgery on dogs, cats, and simian
primates should be directed by a professionally qualiﬁed per-
son (see see. I, p. 1).

Operating procedures for the facility should include provi-
sion for the proper preparation and anesthetization of ani-
mals for surgery, the setting up and maintenance of the op-
erating area, and for other assistance needed by the surgeon.
Anesthetization should include all necessary procedures and
drugs for eliminating sensibility to pain during surgical pro-
cedures, as determined by the responsible investigator or the
director of animal care.

3’. Postsurgical care
(a) Provisions should be made for intensive care of dogs, cats,

(5)

(0)

and simian primates during the postsurgical period. In-
tensive care includes procedures such. as maintenance of ade—
quate ﬂuid balance; administration of Whole blood, anti—
biotics, analgesics, or other drugs Whenever indicated;
recording rectal temperature; care of the surgical incision;
emergency treatment; and similar clinical procedures. The
duration of this period Will vary With the type of surgery per—
formed, and the condition of the animal. A one-week in-
tensive care period is adequate to aid recovery from most
surgical procedures.

The intensive post-surgical care area(s) should be equipped
for supportive treatment; or such equipment should be im-
mediately available if needed. Heating pads or heated cages,
steam vaporizers, compressed air, oxygen, examination table,
and appropriate instruments, are examples of the types of
equipment which may be needed.

Laboratory facilities or services should be available as neces-
sary to follow and support the animal (8’) recovery.

(d) Similar care and facilities should be available as necessary to

provide postsurgical care for smaller species such as rats,
mice, rabbits, and hamsters.

25

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix I

PREREQUISITES FOR CERTIFICATION BY THE AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
LABORATORY ANIMAL MEDICINE

The following prerequisites must be met to the satisfaction of the council
of the American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine before a candidate
will be certiﬁed as competent in laboratory animal medicine:

((1) Have satisfactory moral and ethical standing in the profession.

(1)) Be a graduate of a school of veterinary medicine approved by the
American Veterinary Medical Assm'iation.

(c) Have completed a comprehensive written examination.

((1) Have completed 2 years of postdoctoral training in laboratory animal
medicine in a formal program approved by the College, and have had
2 subsequent years of approved full-time experience in laboratory
animal medicine; or have a master’s degree in some area of biology
or medicine and have had 4 years of approved full-time postdoctoral
experience in laboratory animal medicine; or have had 6 years ap-
proved full-time postdoctoral experience in laboratory animal medicine.

(0) Have published, or presented in a form suitable for publication, a
written dissertation on some phase of laboratory animal medicine.

(1") Have completed a comprehensive oral examination.

For further information write William C. Dolowy, D.V.M., Secretary—Treas—
urer, American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine, University of Illinois,
1840 West Taylor Street, Chicago 12, Ill.

26

 




 

Appendix II

PR'EREQUISITES FO'R CERTIFICATION BY THE ANIMAL TECHNICIAN
CERTIFICATION BOARD OF THE ANIMAL CARE PANEL

A. Persons employed as “junior laboratory animal technicians,” or equivalent,
should have at least 1 year of apprentice training or experience in laboratory
animal care and should haVe acquired elementary knowledge of subjects, such
as:

(a) Routines of feeding and watering laboratory animals.

(b) Method of cleaning animal cages and equipment.

(0) Basic principles of sanitation and disinfection.

((1) Recognition of vermin and their control.

(6) Personal hygiene.

(f) Restraint and handling of laboratory animals.

(9) General and personal safety in animal facilities.

(h) Recordkeeping and animal identiﬁcation methods.

(13) Basic principles of biology (i.e., structure and function of organ
systems).

(j) Sexing of animals; gestation periods; weaning ages of the common
laboratory species.

(70) The signs of normal health and behavior in laboratory animals.

(1) Principles of the experimental method. .

(m) The meaning of responsibility for the care and management of a group
of experimental animals.

B. Persons emplOyed as “senior laboratory animal technicians,” or equivalent,
should have at least 3 years experience in laboratory animal care. They
should have a more extensive knowledge of all of the subjects listed for junior
laboratory animal technician. In addition they should have training or experi-
ence in the following subject areas :

(a) Recognition of clinical signs of illness in laboratory animals.

(b) Animal nutrition, including the preparation of special diets.

(0) Elementary genetics, including the breeding of laboratory animals.

(61) Supervision of animal care personnel, including the planning of work
routines.

(6) Administrative procedures and recordkeeping.

(1”) Laboratory and technical procedures such as preparation of surgical
equipment, euthanasia, oral and parenteral administration of drugs
under supervision, bleeding of animals, assistance with preoperative
and postoperative care of animals.

0. Persons employed as “supervisors,” or equivalent, should have at least 8
Years of experience in laboratory animal care, at increasing levels of respon-
SibilitY, or an equivalent combination of education and experience. They should
be able to carry on the day-to-day management of laboratory animal care, under
the Policies established for their units, and under the general supervision of the
director. Their knowledge and experience in animal care should enable them to
inStrUCt apprentice personnel and junior and senior laboratory animal tech—

27

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nicians, both on the job and in the classroom. In addition, supervisors should
have speciﬁc training or experience in the following areas, including those that
are necessary for the proper performance of their duties:

(a) Administration of animal facilities including purchasing, detailed rec~
ordkeeping, cost accounting, and management of animal—care per-
sonnel.

(b) Supervision or operation of a surgical laboratory including preparation
of complex equipment, service as a surgical assistant, implementation
of a prescribed program of postoperative care.

(c) Operation of laboratory facilities including performance of routine
clinical laboratory procedures in bacteriology, hematology, and para-
sitology.

28

 




 

Appendix III

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY ON THE CARE AND MANAGEMENT OF
LABORATORY ANIMALS

Periodicals

Biomedical Pnrview. National Society for Medical Research, 111 Fourth Street
SE, Rochester, Minn.

Bulletin of Ewperimental Animals (bimonthly), Japan Experimental Animals
Research Association, Tokyo.

Carworth Quarterly Letters. Carworth, Inc., New City (Rockland County), NY.

Information on Laboratory Animals for Research. Institute of Laboratory Ani-
mal Resources (NAS—NRC), 2101 Constitution Avenue NW., Washing-
ton 25, DC.

Journal of the Animal Technician’s Association (quarterly). F. Hoyland, the
Research Institute (Animal Virus Diseases), Pirbright, Surrey, England.
Laboratory Animal Care ( bimonthly.) Ofﬁcial Journal of the Animal Care
Panel, Box 1028, Joliet, Ill. (formerly proceedings of the Animal Care Panel).
Laboratory Animals Centre Collected Papers (annual). Laboratory Animals
Centre, M.R.Ci. Laboratories, XVoodmans-terne Road, Carshalton, Surrey,

England.
Vol. 1, Papers on Laboratory Animal Care and Use. 1953.
Vol. 2, The Design of Animal Houses. 1954.
Vol. 3, The Breeding of Laboratory Animals. 1955.
Vol. 4, Infections in Laboratory Animals. 1956.
Vol. 5, Nutrition of- Laboratory Animals. 1957 .
Vol. 6, Humane Technique in the Laboratory. 1957.
Vol. 7, The Organization and Administration of an Animal Division. 1958.
Vol. 8, Quality in Laboratory Animals. 1959.
Vol. 9, Provision of Animals for Cancer Research. 1960.
Vol. 10, Hazards in the Animal House. 1961.
Vol. 11, The Environment of Laboratory Animals. 1962.

Laboratory Animals Centre News Letter (January and July). Laboratory Ani—
mals Centre, M.R.C. Laboratories, Woodmansterne Road, Carshalton, Surrey,
England.

Mouse News Letter (March and September). Laboratory Animals Centre (and
International Committee on Laboratory Animals), M.R.C. Laboratories, Wood-
mansterne Road, Carshalton, Surrey, England (bibliographies and references
to inbred mouse strains).

Zeitsehrift fiir Versuohstierknnde (quarterly). VEB Gustav Fischer Verlag,
Jena, Villengang 2.

c°mPrehensive general references (more than one species or sub|ecﬂ

The Care Of Laboratory Animals. In Merck Veterinary Manual, 2d 9d- Merck &
00., Rahway, NJ. 1961, pp. 1384—1394.

CAss, J. 1960. A Guide to the Literature on the Production Care and Use of
Laboratory Animals. Federation Proceedings, 19, No. 4, 81111919111911.96-

DUMAS, J. 1953. Les Anima-ua' dc Laboratoire: Anatomie, Particularlties
PhySiOIOgiqueS, Hematologie, Maladies Naturelles, Experimentation. Edl-
tions M'ediicales Flammarion, Paris. 29

 

 




ewm awd‘."~:ﬁc—‘w ._“z—' —:

‘i-v‘:

Mm~9¢a~

.
l
.
l
r
l
‘4
:‘l
i. .
,
.
..
.| l
.
l
.
ll
i l
w
,
l
H
l
l
I‘ l
M l
M l
m
l
l
w
l
i
w
l
\
i
;
.
1
.i
ii
.
l
,v
,
h
4
,.
.\
:1
‘.
.,.
l
.
l
l
'.
4.

 

 

 

FARRIS, E. J., et a1. 1945. Animal Colony Maintenance. Annals New York
Academy of Sciences 46: 1, pp. 1-126.

FARRIS, E. J. 1950. The Care and Breeding of Laboratory Animals. John
Wiley & Sons, New York. ‘

Laboratory Animals, II. Animals for Research. A Directory of Commercial
Sources of Laboratory Animals and Equipment. National Academy of Sci-
ences, Pub. No. 907. Washington, DC. 1961.

LANE-PETTER, W. 1963. Animals for Research—Principles of Breeding and
Management. Academic Press: (in press).

LANE-PETTER, W. 1961, Provision of Laboratory Animals for Research, Elsevier
Press, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

PHILLIPS, G. B., HARRIS, G. J., JEMSKI, J. 1961. Microbiological Safety
Bibliography. Animal Care Panel, Post Ofﬁce Box 1028, J oliet, Ill.

PHILLIPS, G. B. 1961. Microbiological Safety in U.S. and Foreign Laboratories.
Technical Study, 35. US. Army Chemical Corps Biological Laboratories,
Fort Detrick, Md.

PORTER, G., LANE-PETTER, W. 1962. Notes for Breeders of Common Laboratory
Animals. Academic Press.

REYNIERS, J. A., et a1. 1959. Germ Free Vertebrates: Present Status. Annals
of the New York Academy of Sciences ’78: 1. pp. 1---400. .

RUSSELL, W. M. S., BURCH, R. L. 1959. The Principles of Humane Ewperi-
mental Technique. Methuen and 00., Ltd, London.

SPECTOR, W. S. 1956. Handbook of Bio-logical Data, W. B. Saunders Co.,
Philadelphia.

Symposium: Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Federation Proceedings,
20, No. 4: 901—920. 1961.

A Symposium on Laboratory Animals: Their Care and Their Facilities.
Journal of Medical Education 35: 1—55. 1960.

WORDEN, A. N., LANE-PETTER, W. 1957. The Care and Management of Labora-
tory Animals. 2d ed., U.F.A.W., London.

Comprehensive references to a particular species

All-Pets Books, Inc., Hamster Guide, Fond du Lac, Wis. 1953.

BROUSTAIL, ”M. 1.961. Le Souris de Laboratoire et Son Elevage, Vigot Freres,
Paris.-

Care and Diseases of the Research Monkey. Annals New York Academy of
Sciences 85, Art. 3: 735—992. 1960.

COFFIN, D. L. 1953. Angell Memorial Parakeet and Parrot Book, Angeli Memo-
rial Hospital, Boston 15, Mass.

DITMARS, R. L. Reptiles of the World. 1957, McMillan Co., New York.

DONALDSON, H. H. 1924. The Rat, Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, Pa.

DUNHAM, E. C. 1957. Opossums as a Pediatric Research Tool. Journal of Dis-
eases of Children. 91;: 372.

FARRIS, E. J ., GRIFFITH, J. G. 1949. The Rat in Laboratory Investigation. J. B.
Lippincott & 00., Philadelphia, Pa. ’

GALE, L. C. 1949. The Golden Hamster Manual, Louis Clyde Gale, Goodland,
Kans.

GREENMAN, M. J. and L. L. DUHRING. 1931. Breeding and Care Of the Albino
Rat for Research Purposes, Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, Pa.

GRIMSON, K. S. 1961. The Dog in Medical Research. U. S. Department of
Sealth, Education, and Welfare. U. S. Public Health Service Publication

0. 312.

HAGEMANN, E. 1960. Ratte and M aus. Versuchstierc in der Forschung, Grny—
ter, Berlin.

30

 

 




 

KENNARD, M. A., RUCH, T. C., FULTON, J. F. 1946. The Housing Care and
Surgical Handling of Laboratory Primates. Yale Journal of Biology and
Medicine 18: 443..

LEVI, W. M. 1957. The Pigeon. 2d ed., Levi Publishing Co, Sumter, SC.

MAKEPEACE, L. I. 1956. Rabbits. A Bibliography. Bibliographical Center for
Research, Rocky Mountain Region, Denver.

MASON, M. 1959. Bibliography of the Dog. Iowa State University Press,
Ames, Iowa. ‘

NOBLE, G. KINGSLEY. 1931. The Biology of the Amphibia. Reprinted by Dover
Publications, Inc., New York. 1954.

REID, M. E. 1958. The Guinea Pig in Research. Biology. Nutrition, Physi-
ology. Publication No. 55-7. Human Factors Research Bureau, Inc., 2349
Coral Way, Miami 45, Fla. '

ROWETT, H. G. Q. 1957. The Rat as a Small Mammal, John Murray, London.

SNELL, G. D. et a1. 1941. Biology of the Laboratory Mouse. Reprinted by
Dexter Publishing Co., New York. 1956.

WOLESON, A. and RYAN, A. W. 1955. The Frog, Row, Peterson & CO., Evanston,
Ill.

YERGANIAN, G. 1958. The Striped-Bach or Chinese Hamster, Cricetulus
griseus. Journal Of the [N ational Cancer Institute 20: 705».

Diseases of laboratory animals

BLOUNT, W. P. 1945. Rabbit Ailments, “Fur and Feathers,” Idle, Bradford,
England.

COHBS, P., JAFFE, R., MEESSEN, H. 1958. Pathologie der Laboratoriumstiere.
(2 volumes) Springer—Verlag. West Berlin.

FISCHER, VON W., KUHL, I. 1960. Geschwulste der Laboratoriumstiere. Ob-
tainable from Intercontinental Medical Book Corp., 381 4th Avenue, New
York 16.

GUERIN, M. 1954. Tumeurs Spontan-ees des Animaua' de Laboratoire, Amedee
Legrand et Cie, Paris.

HABERMANN, R. T., WILLIAMS, F. P., JR., THORP, W. T. S. 1954. Identiﬁcation
01‘ Some Internal' Parasites of Laboratory Animals. US. Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare. US. Public Service Publication Number 343.
Washington, D.C. !

HALLORAN, P. October, 1955. A Bibliography of References to Diseases of
Wild Mammals and Birds. American Journal of Veterinary Research, 16:
part 2. 3

HARRIS, R. J. C. 1962. The Problems of Laboratory Animal Disease. Academic
Press. New York}:

HOSKINS, H. P., LAbROIx, J. V., MAYER, K. 1959. Canine Medicine. 2d ed.
American Veterin .ry Publications, Inc., Santa Barbara, Calif.

MCGRATH, J. T. 1 . Neurological Eaamination of the Dog. 2d ed. Lea &
Febiger. Philadel hia.

PAPPENHEIMER, A. M. et a1. 1958. Symposium on Some Infectious Diseases of
Laboratory Rodents. Journal of the National Cancer Institute 20: 861.

PARISH, H. J. 1950. Notes on Communicable Diseases of Laboratory Animals.
E & S Livingstone, Ltd., Edinburgh.

RATCLIFFE, H. L., Director. Annual Reports of the Penrose Research Laboratory

_ 0f the Z0010gical Society of Philadelphia.

BUCK, T. C. 1959. Diseases of Laboratory Primates. W. B. Saunders. Co.

laboratory animal anesthesia, surgery, and necropsy

ASHLEY, L-M~ 1955. Laboratory Anatomy of the Turtle, William C. Brown 00.,
Dubmlue. Iowa. 31

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

CROFT, P.G. 1960. An Introduction to the Anesthesia of Laboratory Animals.
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, 7a Lamb’s Conduit Passage,
London, W.C. 1

DEMSTER, W. J. 1957. An Introduction to Eccperimental Surgical Studies.
Blackwell Scientiﬁc Publications, Oxford, England.

HOSKINS, J. P., LACROIX, J. V., MAYER, K. 1959. Canine Surgery. 4th ed.,
American Veterinary Publications, Inc, Santa Barbara, Calif.

MARKOWITZ, J ., ARCHIBALD J ., DOWNIE, H. G., 1959. -Ea'perimental Surgery. 4th
ed., Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, Md.

MILLER, J .M., WHITEHORN, J. M. 1956. Operative Surgery of the Dog. Special
edition, Veterinary Bulletin, American Cyanamid 00., Pearl River, N .Y.

OLSON, C. 1954. Necropsy Procedure for Laboratory Animals. In Veterinary
Necropsy Procedures. Edited by Jones, T. C., Gleiser, C. A., J. B. Lippincott
C0., Philadelphia, Pa.

VINTER, F. J. 1957. Kind Killing. (Techniques of Euthanasia.) 4th ed., Uni-
versities Federation for Animal Welfare, 7a Lamb’s Conduit Passage, London
WC. 1.

Laboratory animal husbandry, restraint, and related problems

Care and Management of Laboratory Animals. Department of the Army and
Air Force Technical Bulletin. TB Med. 255 AFP 16042—3. \Vashington,
D.C. 1958. (A manual for animal technicians.)

Division of Public Documents, US. Government Printing Ofﬁce, Chinchilla Rais-
ing (no date).

Division Of Public Documents, U.S. Government Printing Ofﬁce, Hamster Rais-
ing (no date).

Division of Public Documents, US. Government Printing Oﬂice, Raising Guinea
Pigs (no date). ’

Division Of Public Documents, US. Government Printing Oﬂice, Raising pMice
and Rats for Laboratory Use (no date).

Division of Public Documents, US. Government Printing Ofﬁce, Raising Rabbits
(no date).

Handbook on Genetically Standardized JAX Mice. R. B. Jackson Memorial
Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine. 1962.

PORTER, G., LANE-PETTER, W. 1962. Notes for Breeders of Common Laboratory
Animals. Academic Press.

Standards for the Breeding, Care and Management of Laboratory Mice. Stand-
ards for the Breeding, Care and Management of Laboratory Rats. Standards
for the Breeding, Care and Management of Syrian Hamsters. Committee on
Standards, Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources, NAS—NRC, Was-hing—
ton, D.C.

KOLMER, J. A., SPAULDING, E. H., ROBINSON, H. W. 1951. Diseases of and
Methods for the Care, Inoculation and Bleeding of Animals. In ADDI'OVed
Laboratory Technique. 5th ed., pp. 13—34. Appleton-Century—Crofts, Inc"
New York.

LEAHY, J. R., BARROW, P. 1953. Restraint of Animals. 2d ed. Cornell Campus
Store, Inc., Ithaca, N .Y.

TEMPLETON, G. S. 1955. Domestic Rabbit Production. Interstate Publishers,
Danville, Ill.

THOMPSON, H. V., WORDEN, A. N. 1956. The Rabbit. Collins, London.

Laboratory animal nutrition

ALBRITTON, E. C. 1954. Standard Values in Nutrition and Metabolism. W. B-
Saunders C0., Philadelphia, Pa.

Momus, M. 1960. Nutrition and Diet in Small Animal Medicine. Mark Morris
Associates, 510 Mile High Center, Denver, C010.

32

 

 




 

Nutrient Requirements of Domestic Animals (National Academy of Sciences,
Washington, DC). I. Poultry (1954) Publication 301. II. Foxes and Mink
(1953) Publication 246. VIII. Dogs (1962) Publication 989. IX. Rabbits
(1954) Publication 331. X. Laboratory Animals (1962) Publication 990.

Rat Quality, A Consideration of Heredity, Diet and Disease (Symposium Pro-
ceedings). National Vitamin Foundation, Inc., 15 East 58th Street, New
York 22, NY 1953.

RATCLIFFE, H. L. 1956. Adequate Diets for Captive Wild Animals and Note on
Tuberculin Tests for Apes and Monkeys. Penrose Research Laboratory. Zo-
ological Society of Philadelphia.

Design and construction of animal quarters and cages

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals. Animal Welfare Institute, 22
East 17th Street, New York.

Control and Removal of Radioactive Contamination in Laboratories Handbook
48, US. Department: of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards.

Development Section, Research Resources Planning Branch, National Institutes
of Health. Planning the Health Research, Facility, 1962. .

LAZARDW, A. 1954. Design and Construction of Metabolism Cages. In Methods
in Medical Research, vol. 6 edited by Steele, J. M. Year Book Publishers: Inc.,
Chicago, Ill.

Medical School Facilities Planning Considerations and Architectural Guide.
U .S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service.
Publication 875. Washington, DC. (no date).

Qualitative Speciﬁcations for Animal Laboratories for Emperimental Work With
Radioactive Materials to Brookhaven National Laboratory. Report by Arthur
D. Little, Inc, for US Atomic Energy Commission, Technical Information
Service, Oak Ridge, Tenn. 1948.

Radiological Health Handbook. US. Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, Washington, DC.

RUNKLE, R. J. Laboratory Animal Housing, Architectural Record (in press).

Safe Handling of Radioisotopes Handbook 42, US. Department of Commerce,
National Bureau of Standards.

WARD, D. R. 1952. Design of Laboratories for Safe Use of Radio-isotoyes,
Technical Information Service, AEO, Oak Ridge, Tenn.

Pamphlets and bulletins for animal technicians

A Manual for Laboratory Animal Care. (Correspondence course.) Ralston
Purina 0-0., St. Louis, Mo. 1961.

Basic Care of Experimental Animals. Animal Welfare Institute. 22 East 17th
Street, New York. 1957.

HERRLEIN, H. 1949. A Practical Guide on the Care of Small Animals f0?“
Medical Research. Rockland Farms, New City (Rockland County), NY-

Laboratory Animal Care and Feeding. Ralston Purina 00., St. Louis, MO-
1957.

Rabbits and Guinea Pigs. How To Raise Them Successfully. A. E. Staley
Mfg. 00., Decatur, Ill. 1958.

SLANETZ, 0. A. 1954. Care of Laboratory Animals. Subcommittee on Diagnos-
tic Procedures and Reagents. American Public Health Association, 1790
Broadway, New York.

Laboratory Animal Practice and Techniques. Based on the Animal Techni-
cians Association. 0. C. Thomas Publishing 00., Springﬁeld, 111. (in press).

33

US. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1963 O-—681135

 

 




r
4
' (
‘.-‘
:,
.7
\ “J
J
4 s;
. .
, ‘
.\'
1‘
’
A:
‘
'\
y”.
1,.
u
.v'.
-
Z}
V 1|.
‘-".'~
{I
' :
’ i. ‘
. “g"
‘1
.1»
‘i'
a:-
w
(.1
E!
.Q‘
I!
j;
-|
’3
g
.‘4
, «51'
N‘.
g
,-.‘
’5
‘5

Public Health Service Publication No. 1024

 




E VAMCLiQ ‘

NC wwbﬂh 1:3 Nun—exec ‘7? [Q 0422*; 09‘
C/xL/Y‘Ei-R 8/; aettz «IRA-Waj". “M if is

(7% 4%,; Sam obeys

\ .
COL/CL (LC L C’hn Mick/C

M.LE~NLL1 wag‘ﬁlﬂ 5 44A? 0A 3 W C" Ca (RA Ck

QM Lola ~\.~J~Q Me~~rc~~r~4ﬁ QM cg" .4,ch (4/;ch is

Q M 6/1158 LIT/xx CL ““191 M1” 0L6 $6 , .7207
mu: (1M! whiz/11w cm A w 1' ”JUL,

@MEQ-Qi Wm, LLQ Q15‘kCl 5’ €2an ring-.41 M11“ f ;;\,p

QCUV‘\ “c3" (NE 0 “x: ( JJ/‘\Q\I A 0‘!) n W Md % (1

m7 5(ng Ca WV“ 4»: Jim/87c; .t; 9;. 54W
MU: SwNyLKQ ervai-ey/A (1me Mamet/3
awn“; 175 mm»; «H cu «in» hr“ 11;“ Max ¢
Tim Fall’s mew! RM (”4,41 Muk
cu) IQ;1 W t: cbﬁﬂjﬁ %LPD‘M UL 9
4 .H c,

 




 




.552.»

55g wk 9 533535. $3375 wagi‘n V' 3.3552555551155251 gum {3553935 13.53
3:1 555555555 5:55 5555;355:552 “ 1155 E55 :5“ 155555 5.5.55 155:5 53.35.5555
Envy 5&555 5555555 555 5555.15 rag ﬁ5~igtwr5d5

55::5535 ”g giimgguangﬁpgi £33ng 54;. 535:. 153E} 0.5. g3 {:3}; 5f

‘35::55'55555555555‘ 3555555 5555.55: 5555 .555 5:5 5.55.327. 1555555555 5:5 55.5553; 555.555
urﬁan5an55d 5“. 05‘iana.

5.“ R5
5 -. '6‘ “fr

' : -. - T ,- “5 ’3’ .” ~ .5 f 5'“ ‘1 h
.gwa .5ma5 :5,.,u,w_» .- 5515551ng 5n£51c55d5

“‘12”;

......5§.55.5 :55: 55515555555555? ,. 55 5:: 555155551555 41155 5551555551.. 55255 15555555215555.5155

57555555525555.5518 5555555555555 5355 53.515555 55.5555 .3 55.: 55. 5.5555555 52555 mfarca 5231555 11.55:: 55.1555
“5&55555 En.-- 3505:559 5? :5 5555§ﬁn 55 5&5.~ 5155 sf u 5 5; rimaﬂt$
315555“ 5555 ‘ 55 $555 555u1n5 5815.51f35 an $0 bﬂ dong and @555

5 153554 555 HEH5Q5E5 55 53555535, 5’ 5damtzfiaatiaﬁ cf animals

5,5353 555545 5555.5. 5§§.55*;g-£55:55. 5555;555:5551 Wyeth

5:? .3“ .

.555 by q551.f55d

‘5‘ g}

.5t’f.

‘i

5 5.. 555?”?5515535 5E5}.

\ v5: ,wh 5- .‘ ‘

5:353. $535.55.)? 5’21; £112.55 555527:
85.555555555155555 555:5 35555525“

T‘x?
‘.S L

ﬁgpiaMhar 5, 5961

 




OFFICE OF THE DEAN

 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY
MEDICAL COLLEGE

1300 YORK AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY 21

September 24, 1962

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

22 East l7th Street

New York 3, New York

Dear Mrs . Stevens:

Your letter of August 22, addressed to Dr. Hinsey, has been
referred to me for reply in my capacity of chairman of the Committee
on Animal Care.

Your interest in our animal quarters and in the welfare of
laboratory animals in general is appreciated. You may or may not
be aware that we, along with many other research and teaching
institutions in the city, participate in a program of voluntary inspection
conducted by the ASPCA. This program was mutually agreed on several
years ago, shortly after the enactment of the Metcalf—Hatch legislation
in the state of New York. The plan is essentially one of mutual
cooperation, whereby the participating laboratories have agreed to
undergo unannounced inspection visits. In the last year, at the urging
of Dr. Walter F. Riker, Jr. , our Professor of Pharmacology, and Dr.
John R. Whitehead, Director of Veterinary Medicine of the ASPCA,
it has been arranged that these inspections be conducted by veterinarians
from the staff of the ASPCA. As it now operates, a report of each
inspection is submitted to Dr. Whitehead, Dr. Riker, and the chief of
the participating laboratory.

The reports of the inspections at our laboratory have been highly
favorable and are on file here. We have attempted to comply at once
with any suggestions made for improving our animal care.

It is my understanding that this plan is working extremely well,
and I believe that you will find the ASPCA in agreement on this matter.
I am sure all of the participating laboratories, whose interest is dedicated
to the welfare of research animals, fully intend to support and perpetuate

 

 




Mrs. Christine Stevens -2- ~ September 24, 1962

such an inspection program. We recognize that there are other groups,
beside ourselves and the ASPCA, who have similar interests. Therefore,
it is not surprising that from time to time requests are made by individuals
or groups asking to inspect our animal quarters. Clearly this privilege
should be limited, and we prefer not to extend it generally or to set a
precedent whereby we may be subiect to repeated and overlapping
inspections of our facilities. As I have indicated, we believe that we
are dedicated to excellence in animal care and that our interest in

this direction is thoroughly substantiated by the very close relationship
which exists between us and the ASPCA. Since we are systematically
evaluated by this authoritative group, we are satisfied that we are

doing our best to keep abreast of the most advanced methods for the proper
care and treatment of research animals.

Qur committee has devoted many hours to consultation with the
finest veterinary consultants in planning for renovation of animal housing
and a program of constant upgrading of care. I trust that you will be
reassured by this knowledge of what we are doing.

Very truly yours,

.: 56,5 15/

Rﬁ H. Saunders, Jr.,
Associate Dean

 




THE NEW YORK HOSPITAL—CORNELL MEDICAL CENTER
525 EAST 68th STREET
NEW YORK 21, N.Y.

TRAFALGAR 9-9 DUE!

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

August 27, 1962

MTS. Ghristime Stevens, President
Animal Welfare institute

22 jest 17th Street

New York_3,bh X.

My dear Mrs. Stevens:

I have your letter of August ﬁnd,

me ae Dean 0f the Cornell University Medic 1
v

which yen have reguee,ed permieeien ta isit

quartere 0f eur Medical Gellege¢

It happens that I haven‘t been Dean of our
institution Einee July let, 1953, and new serve as Director
of Our entire Center. I am referring yea letter t0 Dean
John E, Deitriek, for answer. Dr. Deitriek is awey at present
and the answer may be delayed but I de went yea he knew that
I have sent it t3 him for his consideretien.

Sincerely years,

 




E .,
1E EEEE EE .:E E .
{JUXQU‘E’E :r:
W‘ VQTZE ‘9 ‘3‘???

E? M ‘E: EEEE E: E
gﬁh‘ \E'ﬁ" m
X." ,g {41"}: {:4

Eiw EZET'E WEE mm 3:» EEEEEEEEW tr; VEEEE'E ”E {E aim}. ”EEE'EEE: Em 3E”:

‘EI
,

, s . . E E“
4‘ EEEEEEEE? .E, HEW” WEE Emma GEE EEE'EEE ”Exarnggy “WE W my}; macaw 1:3:

4 n. ~ 4 "“5 I ’5. ~ . vb? rd
*1er E E E: "E WE EEEEEEEg EEE

iEEEE.E<EE:‘E'EEE.sE ErEE‘E EEEEXEEEEEEEEEEQW whisk *EWEEIEJE :-- Emm

EE 2;}
- r, , “.0 a :6?
3'983 {:{E 13“? EEEEr" {31$ ELEM: a???“ 1?” 2,22 2a."? ' :tygx “W iii EVE @gﬁﬁrﬁﬂia ”E: 553$ng 12:. ,E 1!? {3933... ﬁﬁgf
. y t a t ‘ E»- if“? (“I m“? t” w ‘
Emu Eif‘E E“ {E’- EEE‘E’ZEEE‘E EM 6%: K E; E‘MEEIE’E .. , 3%» EEEEEE» E935
WEE EE EEs? Em ESE WEEWESE‘EE‘EE E23.

«31'.»

'P'r")€ *3
; :142)-/‘. u . " ‘ {‘ﬁ’ﬂt" ‘
.1; E Em ﬁg: :. 3‘55",” NE 5;

Sincémly wing,

{mm} {1} ”Est; Em
Pkﬁmzﬁam

 




September 17, 1962.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

It has occurred to me that perhaps you would not mind if I
were to call your attention once more to the AFL - 010 issue.

I do hope that you have made some progress already regarding
this matter. I know that you fully appreciate the impact of
the threat it holds for the outcome of legislation destined
to protect laboratory animals.

The combined AFL - CIO membership and the individuals related
to the members of this organization comprise a most powerful
pressure group totaling of about sixty million peOple. These
people are mostly of voting age right now, the enormous influ-
ence they may wield.with our legislators is truly overwhelming.

Our lawmakers must listen to the eXpressed wishes of the voters;
not to do so may cause them to lose that position which en-
ables them.to decide the destinies of Man and animal alike. We,
who wish a better life for all concerned, must take into consid-
eration the fact that the voices of our peers are at times raised
in behalf of causes that are not always just. These peOple are
misled into favoring some of these unjust causes because they
are misinformed regarding die motives and the actions involved.
The Education Council of the AFL ~ 010 must not be allowed to
dieseminate erroneous information to the membership regarding
the activities of the research interests, which are not always
synonymous with humaneness.

Off all those who are working to mitigate the suffering of
animals used for "research" in our laboratories, schools, and
hospitals, you are the only one I consider able to ' nip in

the bud' this planned program of purposeful misinformation to
be handed from the 3MB to the AFL — CIO membership gig its
Educational Council. Just what needs to be done you know best;
I have no doubt about the success that you can achieve, if only
you decide to achieve it.

Very sincerely yours,

£¥T«T’// ﬁrl/
; Ta, .

J "‘
«r.

4b.

,'

j J

 




THE [ACKSON LABORATORY / BAR HARBOR, ”414%

TEL. 207 -288-33 7 3

June 22, 196%

Mrs . I'viade lyn LaRoche
Jackson, New Hampshire

Dear Mrs. IaRoche:

If you are already convinced that scientists are sadists, I doubt
if my reply to your letter of 1% June can make much impression. I recognize
the sources of many of your arguments, which you have read with emotion
but without understanding. In particular you should realize that a news-
paper headline is written to attract attention and in an abbreviated news
story it is impossible to be as precise as one might wish.

The punishment which our puppies received was no more intense
than that which would be given to animals reared in an ordinary home and
taught to keep off the furniture. Our subjects are never "tortured."
It is true that isolated puppies show some behaviors which have been called
psychotic in man. To View psychosis as a completely irretrievable state,
however, is an old idea which many of us are trying to fight. The fact
that our "psychotic" dogs can often be almost wholly restored to normality
by preper techniques has, we believe, some implications for the welfare
of children deprived of sympathetic care in infancy.

You may be interested to know that the dog in the photograph
illustrating the article was not an isolated puppy. The picture was
taken many years ago of a small puppy, reared by its mother in the
ordinary way. It waa selected as a photographic subject because of its
soulful appearance. You will also probably be surprised to learn that
our isolated dogs can become confident and strongly attracted to peeple.
Some of them have gone into homes and made excellent pets.

Since you are apparently a person of sensibility, I will hope
that you would exert your efforts toward the support of humane research
such as described in the herald article rather than accusing scientists
of crimes which they have not committed. One final point; I spoke on
this work at an Animal Care Panel meeting in 1961 and found afterward
that Mrs. Christine Stevens, President of the Animal welfare league was
in the audience. She complimented me on the precautions for the welfare
of my subjects.

Very truly yours,

am

John L. Fuller
Senior Staff Scientist

Founded 1929 In Memory of Roscoe B. Jackson

 




THE JACKSON LABORATORY / BAR HARBORMAINE

TEL. 207 -288-33 73 04609

June 30, 1964

Mrs. Madelyn LaRoche
R. F. D.
Lancaster, New Hampshire

Dear Mrs. LaRoche:

I would reaﬂy prefer that protection for experimental
animals come from action by scientists themselves working
through such agencies as Animal Care Panel. There are
abuses, which many of us deeply regret. One can't gurantee
that regulation will eliminate all of them. If it turns out
that legislation does become necessary, I would hOpe that the
law would not interfere with medical research necessary to
save human lives. Man uses animals for food, for products such
as leather, and for scientific research. When he does use them
he should be aware that the purpose must justify the use, and
that the infliction of pain be minimized. We bring this principle
to the attention of our students at The Jackson Laboratory
because we too are concerned with callousness which does develop
among some workers with animals.

Sincerely yours,

new

John L. Fuller
Associate Director

JLdelk

Founded 1929171 Memory of Roscoe B. Jackson

 




7013 Poplar Drive
Galveston, Texas 77552
August 2, 196#

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

I'll send this special delivery so as to save you the need of being
concerned both with it and its immediate predecessor. I didn't intend,
by the way, to send that air mail. Had an envelope in your file, and
can't find it, so I must have used it last time.

As you will see from the enclosures, I returned to my first impulse and
have written in reply to Dr. Eyestone‘s letter. I don't know whether
it is of value to do this or not, but found that I could concentrate on
nothing else this weekend.

I sent a COpy of Dr. Eyestone's letter to the SAPL, addressed to Miss
Schoepperle, who signed the letter asking that I write the president.
I mentioned protecting my identity, but feel more comfortable in that
relation, in sending things to you.

To understand entirely, you must have the brochure to which I refer in
the enclosed letters. I'll not need it before I get a reply from one
of these gentlemen, so am enclosing it. I should appreciate having it
back, for I could need it again.

One thing you may note in this correspondence is my failure to identify
myself as a nurse. I tried to show understanding in the content of

the letters, and deliberately avoided my own identification. This is

a matter of self—protection. I don't know Dr. Eyestone, but there are
a number of people working at NIH, FDA, and maybe elsewhere in that
network, who have been here, peOple who would immediately know me. If
it should be essential, I should willingly expose myself and see what

I could do about avoiding disaster. As things stand, however, I don't
see that it is needed.

Any suggestions you have about follow-up, etc., I'll welcome.

Sincerely,
V
J \

7/' ‘
V:MMM

//

(5/

I)

{’K/ ”Ci/Ck
/

K/I'J

x/

" " 762W e7” :51 7;.--27f;iw
57" 7,, M .1

V . =1. ”(p/(V, wt :{Uj‘g Marja/w WI/ 5‘ f z) jg W770 77%,1’ (f;

I? ‘¢722a4éés 5’?7 ﬁnsd/ZJZai /~ (“’ﬁghA‘ f”, I

eQ- co/ ,
M ,3 ﬂame/rm 5"“,444 ﬂexes/W @Z

:wc, 4,07
xg4s4i/fﬂauseééyl ,~ Uﬁﬁdﬁd/ / ‘/

 




y.

. ."“\ «7;» 1 a
\ «M r: .nr’ . 1
1‘: ra‘M-A 1,3. 5.1!

,.
l

as

J

4 A“;
f

I
,447-1»:
munitgt‘r

(m; ' -

in}. »

.m
a

..__

F13; 7“.
he ‘-

1eﬁw'

é

' 1331511

‘3? 5‘; 7"
J ‘H’ x“

.. 2 -». 4
“ . .3) -cv.

,»

. 4-” :

.3... I: >

1

sh: 4.11

4321'

if:

€k$113

is?

1"."- 3',‘ 4’“?

$8

:1 ’7‘
1

if” .4 2'

'4
~ 1!“

a.

1151?;

$4..
1;

‘2
\
z: j
’ .

3.3; 2241'
4“,, 1’1 2.,

2‘:
in?

2.41 a}; O

2. j" '-( '53

a
1
in... .I.’

n: .1
i

B

0-", ,
(4:1. 5 a'

Vifﬁ

14,

I."
I? 1‘“)

.1...
1

11.3”}

it...

w {R

~.'" ‘1 ‘
c335»

3‘ ﬁx»
11:1; ‘1'.
n.“

,u
1.

"w

v.

. i

i m n : f".
4 v
‘3. 2w“ . v

1,
1:,
,.

3334-

v-w
I
~

. ’3
4 *‘x 6:3. V ’.
1 r 3: 1:1} 11%,!

1.
~J.-

w" ‘L.

(’3
P'“,
.i "
.,...r

,1
x r‘
.J . 1

4,.” . 5 1.4
”'71. 1.91, 4 :A

a
\.

1W 2‘“;
A 1. '

{x L‘s..- ,

44,)”

i

1:?“ '-
9.)

Lﬁﬂ'ﬁ

t};

'. r733.

, «We
1;, 4.4}

0

4°

,4; 3},

€va?
,— 31.1.: “‘- r ’0' .a

an
A.

"i

n [J ‘1 ~' , ,1
£ 1‘3 1.»: u}-

an

Q
3
nu

a
{at f” 14-5.5.2: air K!"

i" .
a . 2
7 at“ T

i

: 4.“; H". '2‘ 1-“ ‘s m.
p $3 $.r' 131. .1 11 -s

C.

L .3;

g; I"

1: a

., ',‘|
1,412 5.:

.13

H.311.

'. a A
13"

.1 L.

2*": “v,
" :13?

4!

29$

aflﬂ

9

' 21:11

WI T T
m», 4
val' “6 ~

I
x

17’

.4.
54.4. 11.3.

4 m
“.14. 1.1:.

‘aa
,IA,_'

1

 

 




V015 202122 Drive
ﬁalveateng T2228 ??D52
2ugu2t 2, 196%

3.2, ROG? P2o3.

22 22c1222222 222'222222222
2f He2lt2
32212

1.," ., In. .1,” . .g a . , ,, Q ,. .. . , 2.1-: ,2
2.22 «22 222 32 222222 22 July 22th. Bafcrtunmt2lyg 2222 2f 2222
22 2222 222 :222 ts thv Hub eat 2f ﬂy 222222 22 Pregident
2222222 22 22 iriﬂ‘cussﬁif 222 22 222222222229 1 2221222
2 22 22 222222 222ti2 2 22 2222222222 22 2222 22 itaelfo
£22 22 212; gavﬂrnment i2 t22 2222 22220rter

{ 22222 22 .2222222 22 22c V2122 or 222222»
fie 222 222. 2222222 222 I 2222122 abeut

2

‘1222 2 222222 o-’ 2 2;e~ we ;ka' ' 22 22222r222 that 2 law be enac~
222; 222 22223 1 wes~~ 2;. ,«c_““11 2222222r222 crueiﬁy 22 the
“ 22222202.

‘ ,. t.” .- ~ 4 x- . n. 4 "1' 1' a“ .1 ,4“, 1.‘ . 1T 3 ‘
22222222 22. 22:” ‘ 22 2222 rsmtznw 2rl~

'22212220 212- 3;. . it u? t222 subject 2f
and 213 ; .‘ 92.; 9 2282, 2222 ‘2 22222

222 2222 22222 222” (822 publica,ion, 22 ﬁmte
”22222 Rt2. 922 t. 5/10/62. If van 2212 c2222 t22
,2,. 22cm Infor 22tion 22202 2uﬂk 222 thi 259 yen
2222 "12 22ticl2 of three daJﬁ 62212er9 27 T22 ”22 224t02
22-2 222222222 the barn 22222 22020 :202 222122222 22 2222
212 22 22222ted to have 2222222> 2M22 252 2 222222

3....
$3: 2 {I} g»):
‘53:» 4:2 0 :13

‘ > 2:. 5; if." m

22 222212 222 labGraterieﬁ 22 2 122222222 222» sad the 222 2
222222 2f 2222212 can 22 22962222 20 C2ntinue 222 222222 2 un~
22222 acinntiaig 22d 222oaat22122 22ject 211 222 221222u2 2r2~
“2222122 22222123 It 22225 1222221 22 222222 ’22‘ 22222 22122"
2222 the 2022 221.223022b12 1222 t2 222222 -"2» in 22222222
222 222 tzcmwelveﬁ7gﬁﬁé2gies on the 32rt 1; Ti“ 2' 2222 22922.

0 (222

’29.,
‘u 4*

21222 12:22 522v 22:22} m2ttergz l? I :2 “2; t»2.2.~ * aaout
d) I 22 at 22222 2 2192 £22 2222122282iit3. f. I am
2g L2222t122 of 22322202. 2) I 22 mat 222222262 222y 2bmut
2222123 22 22222229 5) I 22 222222222 222222 22222 222222
252222022.ittcz. .6) IE 22; ~cc*:??‘22322 22:12 22 :2 were a 122
222202t 22 uﬂuec€“n223 222 222222122 222 £22 to 2222212.

222222212 22222,

J

1!??irfg if 21?“).

 




 




 

THE
ANSWER IS

YES!

FOR INSTANCE —

The Washington Post, a nationally known
daily newspaper, in a recent (3/10/63) article,
said:

” The National Institutes of Health in
Bethesda is not going to the dogs, but as far
the dogs are concerned, NIH is a good place
to go.

”The same is true for cats, monkeys,

sheep, goats, horses, cattle, rats, rabbits,

mice, hamsters and guinea pigs.

”Animals, thousands of them, are used
for medical research designed to provide better
health for humans. And the humans, not un-
mindful of the contributions provided by‘the
creatures, afford them care and treatment not
so far below that for patients.

”A dog’s life at NIH is .far different from
that of a stray sniffing ,around city streets, or
a forlorn inhabitant of a pound ..... ”

OTHERS SAY —

”It is our opinion that at the National
Institutes of Health the animals receive the
same' standard of care that would be given to
convalescing human beings.”—This was the
opinion of the chairman of a Maryland humane
society after a visit to NIH. -

NIH facilities and methods of handling
dogs and other animals have won warm praise
from other humane societies, including this
from a national organization which considers
the NIH way of doing it " ..... an important
guide as we try to bring the rest of the country
your good example.”

‘1
g:

 

 




PROPER CARE OF RESEARCH ANIMALS is a
major concern of research scientists. In the picture
above a patient of the NIH Animal Hospital who
has been contributing to studies of the heart rests

RESEARCH ANIMALS GET TOPNOTCH
CARE AT NIH

Healthy, happy, well-nourished animals
are needed for research. They must be free of
disease or the studies involving them may be
of no value.

Most animals used in medical research
are small ”laboratory” animals such as mice,
rats, guinea pigs and hamsters, 90 percent of
which are-bred and raised to exacting stand-
ards at NIH. F or certain purposes larger
animals —monl<eys, cats and dogs -—are needed.
Dogs are important in heart research; cats in
research on, nerve and sensory disorders;
monkeys in research to develop and improve
vaccines, such as polio vaccine.

2

 

comfortably in a recovery room oxygen tent. New
life-saving techniques in heart surgery are now
possible because of such studies.

The larger animals, for the most part, are
obtained from outside Nil-l. They'are procured
from licensed dealers and from pounds oper—
ated by humane societies or local government
agencies. Before a new contract to supply
such animals is concluded with a dealer, his
facilities are inspected and must come up to
NIH standards.

Upon arrival at Nil-l these otherwise con-
demned animals are given thorough physical
examinations to determine .their condition and
to uncover any evidence of disease or abuse.
They are then immunized against distemper,
rabies and hepatitis and bathed to remove
ticks and fleas.

Next, the newly arrived animals are placed
in comfortable, antiseptically clean, specially

3

 




 

 

SAM THE HAMSTER gazes bright-eyed at the lab-
oratory world which surrounds him and of which he
is so much a part. He is an example of the‘thou-
sands of small laboratory animals whose services
have been and will continue to be important aids
in the advance of man's knowledge of life processes.

designed, air-conditioned quarters and held in
quarantine for periods ranging from two to
eight weeks, depending upon species. During
this period, they are observed for evidence of
worms, colds, diarrhea or other illness. Their
diets, of highest quality, are especially adap-
ted to their needs, and medical care, as re-
quired, is provided.

RESULT ——

Healthy happy animals who are able to
contribute importantly to medical and vet-
erinary research designed to bring better health
not only to humans but to other animals as well.

4




 

 

 

    
  
    
   

YOUNG GOAT receives typical thorough physical
check-up from veterinarian, who is applying steth-
oscope to its chest.

Prepared by
Office of Research Information
National Institutes of Health
Bethesda l4, Maryland

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
Public Health Service




7013 POplar Drive
Galveston, Texas 77552
July 31, 196#

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New york, New York 10003

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Enclosed is a copy of a letter I received today. It's in answer to the
letter I sent two weeks ago to President Johnson. One brochure extolling
the virtues of medical research was enclosed. Undated, published by

HEW, it quoted the Washington Post and unnamed humane societies in
support of statements that animals are well cared for in the NIH. I'm
sure you have seen it, but if not, and if you want it, I'll send it.
Title is:

"We Have Been Asked ---~ Are Laboratory animals well cared for at
the National Institutes of Health?"

The other enclosure was a rather fancy reprint of a series of six news-
paper articles said to have appeared in The New York Times between
April 30 and May 21, 1961. I haven't read all of this yet, but it seems

to contain nothing vital. (globgz;gt “ /VstJQ{ 71],,iéiwwaaaﬁv)

My first impulse was to answer, and I had a good many things I could say.
I doubt the value of corresponding with Dr. Eyestone, though. Also doubt
the advisability of a follow-up letter to the president.

I wonder if Dr. Eyestone or someone like him would be given authority

for enforcement if it is left to the HEW. This is the kind of thing I

would expect. Hence my question about this some time ago. It makes
.me distinctly uneasy about the bills the AWI supports.

I notice that in this letter from Dr. Eyestone and in the reading materials
he sent me, there is no mention of anything but housing and cleanliness,
and health of animals. This is something, true. It does not include

all issues, though. I noticed that the article in the Galveston paper
implied that the size of cages was the sole concern Mrs. Dyce expressed
here, too, and the sole concern of the AWI.

I know you must be extremely busy over legislation now that the matter
of civil rights is out of the way. I don't want to ask for your time
unless you see need for me to do something helpful. If you do, please
let me know. Otherwise, this is just for information, of course.

Sincerely,

1/] ~ ~ . \>- ,
t I
’ ,/
;J J

2 ""‘
c. 0"“ZJ‘V Limb/v97- (34737 2/ N1 /c’ -, (Co Wise (Suﬁsm “if: 3 f9 PK

 




,Vuly 17, 1961+

The President
The White House
Washington 25, D.C.

Mr. President:

In comparatively recent years, as you know, enormous amounts of federal
tax money have been poured into medical research. Two changes which have
resulted, though concurrent, are not essentially related. The marvelous
advance in medical knowledge is most laudable. The widespread abuse and
torture of animals in research, however, is outragetus, totally repre-
hensible, incredibly vicious.

That the very persons who claim dedication to prevention of suffering
should be the prime offenders is alarming. That these respected citizens
should organize a systematic, well financed fight against moderate and
reasonable control defies belief. How concern or compassion for human
suffering can be exPected of a society which endorses wanton cruelty to~
ward gay creature, encouraging it with massive financial support, escapes
me. Everyone who does less than his utmost to stop it, must surely share
the guilt. Much suffering, human and animal, cannot be prevented, but de-
liberate, calculated cruelty to laboratory animals can. At the very
least, public tax money can be denied those who practice it.

A number of corrective bills are now pending before the U.S. Congress.
Some weak bills that would not protect animals have been introduced, but
other would reduce unnecessary suffering without hindering responsible
research. In fact, decent, proper care of animals would improve research
quality and reliability. I believe three of the bills worthy of pass~
age, the ClarkoNeuberger (8.533* and Ashley (H.R. 5430) are two. I pre-
fer the firmer, explicit provisions of the Randall (H.R. #856) bill.

You were helpful in obtaining passage of federal humane slaughter legis-
lation. For this I heartily commend you. (Unfortunately, our Texas has
not concurred at the state level.) You are now in position to exert real
influence to protect laboratory animals against the terrible cruelties

to which they are now subjected. It would require substantial courage

to stand up to the powerful lobby against such legislation. You have
shown courage before, though, and in the case of medicare, you now oppose
this same organized group.

I appeal to you to bring to bear your considerable influence to put an
end to government support of this shameful situation, immediately. I
have confidence that you will do so.

‘Respectfully yours,

 




P
DOPE

Dear ~~~

Your recent letter to the President has been referred to this office
for reply as our Branch is also concerned with the proper treatment
of laboratory animals.

Your concern for the well-being of all animals is shared by the
Federal Government; however, it should be realized that the Federal
Government does not support all research laboratories throughout

the country. Before any research project is supported by the Govern»
ment, it must be reviewed by a Council consisting of senior scientists
and distinguished members of the general public.

The National Institutes of Health maintains the highest standards

of care for animals used in their Bethesda research laboratories as

you will note from the information in the enclosed brochures. Rather
than contributing to the abuse of animals, we feel that Federal support
of medical research has helped to bring about a significant reduction
in human death and suffering. We assure you that we will continue to
work for the effective use of apprOpriated funds in bringing about
further advances against disease.

There are now ten bills before the Congress which deal in different
ways with the care of laboratory animals. These include the Clark»
Neuberger, Ashley and Randall bills to which you refer. You may be
assured that the Congress will give orderly consideration to all
pending legislation and those measures having the broadest impact

on the majority of the nation will, of course, be given the highest
priority. In the meantime, increasing efforts are being made to insure
the humane treatment of these animals with the realization that clean,
healthy animals are a vital necessity to high-quality research.

Thank you for taking the time to write and express your views on
this problem in which many of us are sincerely interested.

Sincerely yours,

Willard H. Eyestone, D.V,M., Ph.D.

Chief, Animal Resourses Branch

Division of Research Facilities
and Resources

Enclosures

 




   
 

copy

July 24, 196%

 
    
 

Dear ~~

   

Thank you very much for your letter“ You may be certain that
I will not support any measure which I feel would contribute to
cruelty to animalsc

      
 

ﬁinoerely yours,

 
    
  
  
    
    
  
 

John G. Tower

July 23, 196%
Dear ww

Thank you for your thoughtful letter
of July 179 regarding H.R. 1839.

I have noted your comments with interest
and you may be assured of my careful study of this
measure in light of your views.

 

Hoping that I shall again hear from you
on matters of particular interest, and tith my
very best wishes9 I am

Sincerely yours,

 
    

Ralph Yarborough




 

 
 

out o.

Shouldn’t josh about this too much for
3of the eight clippings on my desk
;six of them are written by columnists who
,have devoted their complete space to cats.
“Bill Kenny, L05 Angeler Herald; Bill Wil-
{liams, Gartom'cz Gazette; Howard Preston,
Clevelcmd News; Bruce Roberts, Portland
gExpress; Art Buchwald, St. Louis Post and
3 Patrick Kelly, Savanna/9 News, make up
.' the list.

Mr. Buchwald interviewed Rhubarb's
owner, Mr. Inn, who is in Paris. He
brought Rhubarb, the famous movie cat, to
France to make a picture, Gigot, with
Jackie Gleason. Mr. Inn reported there was
a time when most of his calls were for
dogs. Now fifty percent of all requests is
for cats. Rhubarb is to be starred in his
own picture called Chloe and The Cool Cat
this fall.

Mr. Roberts told of a hotel manager in
Fredericton, New Brunswick, whose cat
amaze guests by displaying human under-
standing of the elevator service. Never
missing his own floor, this car rides up
and down with savoir-faire that is discon-
certing to newcomers who are apt to get
confused.

Howard Preston pointed out that no
matter who owns the cat in the family, it
is always Mama who raises it. She is the
one who makes certain the pet is fed; she
sits up when it is sick; lets it out in the
morning and searches to bring it in at
night. True, someone else may bring an
animal home and call it theirs, but on care-
ful check, Mama is raising it. ;

Both Mr. rrKenn‘e‘dy‘an‘d Mr. Williams
stayed in their own back yards with their
particular cats.

Me too . . . after this. ].L.

 

 

 
   

  




7013 Peplar Drive
Galveston, Texas 77552
August 16, 196k

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

I'm going to whip off a bit extra for you about the enclosed, and all it
pertains to. I have a feeling about it all that leaves me uneasy. -I just
reread my recent letters to you, those about Mrs. Dyce‘s visit. They‘re
no better written than usual, but there's nothing in them I'd retract. I
conclude that you haven't known what materials I gave Mrs. Dyce. I'll
type you a copy of the typed information and enclose it with this. Other-
wise there was a School of Medicine catalog for the coming school year,

a current campus telephone directory, and several maps of city and the
university campus, separate. ,CL,W$W,;2 :91; #V,ﬂe«t‘ ~

There is so very much here, only part of it known to me, that it's appalling
for anyone to have made a visit to inspect facilities and seen only the one
decent building. It‘s not for me to say, even to judge privately, how well
Mrs. Dyce did in relation to her instructions. She most definitely told

me on the way back to Houston, however, that she asked to see the facilities,
and that they showed her the new building. I fairly hit my tongue in
amazement. She also said in a despairing voice that they took up all the
time with conversation in Dr. Blocker‘s office. Note the last line on the
notes I gave her (enclosed). She may not have absorbed all those notes --

I expected her to take them with her on the tour, hence no identification

on them. She made some notes from them at my house and put her notes in

her purse. She commented about my note (see Blocker this list) on drinking.
I explained that it was in earnest, that I had expected a man who might

well be invited out. She also commented about my last notation re distrac-
tions, vﬁswii. we L54J the, lap<aiw

Please do not think I am bemoaning the fact that what I did was unappreci-
ated. It was not, in the first place. She seemed most appreciative. It
should have been useful, but really didn't involve much“work, anyway.

As a matter of fact, my concern is not for the past that can't be changed,
but for whatever you try to do in the future, here or elsewhere.

Did Mrs. Dyce pass along my suggestion of a search of directories on philan-
thropic foundations, the possibility of dinding one or more whose purpose
might be interpreted to include humane work, even if it had not been

thought of before? It was just such a search that started the W.K. Kellogg
Foundation's interest in nursing. Like the local Animal Welfare League,
what you need is money! With sufficient funds, one person would not have

to make such a frightful tour alone, but a team could be sent. There are
numerous advantages to that, all of them obvious.

I wrote ineptly to you recently, about unity in the humane movement. One
thought I failed to mention is that pooling of financial and personnel re~
sources might provide teams for this kind of activity. Unity isn't the
word I should have used, anyway. I mean unified action on whatever can

be agreed upon. A league, conference or some such might well develop from
limited but continuing conferences at the director level. Now why couldn't
I put it that simply before?

There seem to have been several reasons for what happened here, or didn‘t.
One is the strain of it, but another is lack of planning. That is partly

 




2

due, no doubt, to the factthat neither you nor anyone you know well, knew
me. My correspondence with you could certainly not be expected to give
you confidence except that I mean well. I very/Wish you and I could meet.
It was solely with this in mind, as I told Mrs. Dyce, that I agreed to
allow my name to be placed in nomination for mhe board of directors of

the National League for Nursing, with headquarters in New York City. As

I have told her today, I feel that is too much, so am withdrawing from it.
I probably wouldn't have been elected anyway, but I'm afraid to risk it.

I just can't take on that kind of job.

You must not feel that I am asking for an accounting, that I mean to be
accusing, or any such thing. In fact, I ask ,othing but that you put

to the best possible use any and everything IAéiVen either of you, and
anything I've said. Neither of you is going to offend me or scare me away
from the AWI, or from humane work.

I don’t know about the answer to Mrs. Dyce I’m sending her (enclosed). I
have a suspicion you don't have a cepy of her letter to me, August 12th.
This answer may prove quite upsetting to her, but I tried to give her
what she asked for. Your cepy is complete, even to pencilled in correc-
tions and additions. w

Law
I feel somewhat the same about writing td:separately, as I do about trying
to keep a secret file from Mrs. Moss. I don' t like it. From here on,
I'll follow your cues, though. There' s not much I wouldn't do to help.
Even if you wish I'd simply mind my own business, feel free to say so.

I assure you of my sincere, very best wishes, You are doing so very
much, and doing it well. I must compliment you on the beautiful, so
eloquent statement of yours that was inserted into the Congressional
Record, about importation of wild animals. Glad to know that battle
was won.

Sincerely,
p7 .

Ll

 




Mrs. S. : I don't remember what was at the top in Here I put just
this space. I had my carbon in wrong ”'.this point the name of the 20-
and didn't go back to complete this. I think it year report of M.D.
was a note to check the green pages of the campus Anderson, Houston.
directory for this listing. I intended the orieno

tation to the campus to fill in on location of

the buildings.

Abreu, Benedict E. Farmacology Dept. Chairman lll Gail Borden

Anigstein. Ludwig e Dorothy ~~ Husband wife on Keiller Bldg.

He is Director9 Riokettsial
Research Lab.
Mice. Guinea pigs.

Artz, Curtis Director of Burn Institute ?Surgioal Research
{Shriners) Bldg.?
Came here recently from
San Antonio. Texas

Baird, Elwood E. Direetor, Medical Physics 206 Gail Borden
Lab.

Bass, Joe Microbiology ?Gail Borden?

Blocker. Truman G. Executive Director of Medical
Branch -« Surgery and Plastic
Surgery. Burns. Appointed April
1964 to present position. Army
General. retired May 196#
from Army Reserve. Can be charming,
deceptive. Be careful about
social drinking with him.

Blount, Raymond F. Anatomy. Director of K ”Animal Animal Hospital
Hospital". Report of 1956.‘£g
Animal research facilities.
Much Opposed to a humane society
except if it would supply the research labs.

Chen, Julian Exfoliative cytology. No
information.

Connell, Cecil B. Chemical Sanitation Research
Lab.

Public Health Research
Bldg.

 




Derrick. John R.

Duncan. Donald

Goolishian, Harold A.

(Harry)

Gregory9 Raymond L.

Guest, Mason

Hild, Walther J.

Hopps, Howard C.

Lamar. Jule K.

Lewis, Stephen R.

Levy, Abe

Micks, Don W.

Ormsby, Andrew A.

‘Cardiovascular surgery; defibrillator ?Surgical

pacemaker; resuscitation. Has been Research Lab?
said to be suspicious of nurses be~
cause they inquire about welfare of
animals. Has stated that 70-80% of
all dogs in Galveston have heartworm.
Made no comment about using them in
research. Is being considered for chief

of surgery to replace Dr. Blocker.

Anatomy. Also Assoc. Dean of Graduate School.
All literature seen indicates microscOpic study of
slides of nerve and brain tissues.

Psychology (Clinical psychologist)
Borrowed incubator for baby mon~
keys, June 19th.

1st Floor Psychia-
tric Hospital

Internist. Director of John Sealy
Memorial Laboratory for Clinical
Research

Room 19, Animal
Hospital Bldg.

Anatomy. Blood Coagulation. Blood Coagulation
Laboratory. Elk Gail
Borden Bldg.

Director, Tissue Culture Lab. 125 Keiller Bldg.

Pathology Dept. 205 Keiller Bldg.

'Pregnancy tests. Uses frogs, mice,

rabbits. Keeps frogs in refrigerator.
covered with damp cloth, not fed. Said to
have a frog pond in his back yard

at home. About to take a job with

the Food and Drug Administration.
Washington, D.C.

Plastic surgery; burns. Works
with Dr. Blocker. Director of
postgraduate training program.
Former school board member. presim
dent several years.

Veterinarian, official since shortly after May. 1962.
Formerly in physiology dept.

Has operated feed store; also veterinarian
establishment in Galveston.

Director of Medical Entomology Lab.

Biochemistry. Stated there is no

problem circumventing the law on

NIH funds use by students; just give them
a leave of absence.

 




Packchanian; Ardzroony A. Director of Microbiology Lab.

Poth, Edgar J.

Rigdon, Raymond H.

Scott, J. Allen

Swann. Howard G.

Turner, Root. A.
Verwey, Willard F.

Waggener. John D.

Surgery. G.I. Antiseptics and
antibiotics. May be humane.

Greatly upset at discovery an

orderly had been stealing

narcotics instead of giving them

to post-operative dogs. One

nurse has reported that his lab

was extremely clean and his dogs
appeared contented and well cared for.
Her statement was that she wished
patient wards were always so well
tended. Was Director of Surgical Research
Lab. May not be now.

Pathology. Uses ducks. chickens.

dogs. mice. (Texas Reports on Biology and Medicine
Vol. 21. No. 2, Summer, 1963. p. 2Q?.)

"Absorption and Excretion of Benzpyrene --~-”

Helminth Research Lab. Public Health Re-
(Statistics) search Bldg.

.Authority on drowning; according to newspaper
report. was consulted by Erle Stanley

Gardner for details for stories. Much

published work on physiology of Kidneys.

No actual evidence of inhumaneness. Wife is school
board member now.

Electron microscopy. (Pathology)
No information '

ﬁxnnmimgxx Microbiology 3rd Floor Gail
Borden Bldg.

Neuropathology 203 Keiller Bldg.

 




Places and activities

‘ Children‘s Bldg, 3rd Floor ~ ?Rappap0rt uses rabbitsa maybe
guinea pigs. No rﬂpOTtEd inhumanenegs.

Surgical Research Bldg.
A team of an M.D. and his wife who m&y algo be an
Md).a are here for one year, just to do reaearch.
Think they are from ﬁermany. Lots of doga and cats
in this building. Cages appear cleamg but animalﬁ
emaciatedo '

Renal labmratory in John Sealy Hmspital, Ward 50¢ Artificial Kidney.
May be used for animals, N9 information.

Dog pound (City) and next doar University Dog Bank (11th and Strand) Eegs
also purchased for 50 ¢ apiece from Port Arthur and Bﬂaumont, truaked in,
for large classes $5 Anatomy.

Other

Watch for distracting conversation” activities. Plang, blueprintsg etc.

 




I

Hi! ”I
H .t. ..
llrlllissl "
lltlilli' .

I
v

t

STAFF PHOTos BY tiNDA JOHNSTON PENDLE’Y
OXYGEN TENSION h‘lACHINE is being tested by .l. L. Black (at. controls)
e'ml Cal Valle, as Phil Siiagi'rp watches. it is used by the student researcher: in pro
iects under way in the Surgical Research Lubm'etory at the University of Texas
lVl edical B re no h.

i

3gntive

il()l'l’l()l‘l‘ti)\‘.'5§ n‘tedicine by partic

i.pears
f'prevention of ulcers in experi-
,mental animals. Its use in pa-

; another
i‘ilen G. Guillet of Beaumont. ‘.
He is developing an esophageal . -
[1598 21 p 1
piece of the small intestine to

j the
biotic
' dosage

second ~-
" j the
y‘Derrick. assiticiate professor oi.
thoracic and cardiovascular sur- ‘ ,

y j of studies

' vworking on developing a surgi’

7 ”— __MWM—v-J—N” v»,

E A? pan, or;

By KI'l‘TY KENDALL
News-Tribune Staff Writer

Although less than a year”
old. the. new Surgical Research
Laboratory building at the Uni~
vcrsity Texas M e d i c a l
Brz‘i'nch is already bursting; with
ac ti vi ty.

With several goals in mind.
the surgery department expand .
ed its research facilities by
l')uilding the new labm'atory.

One of the goals, a spokes-
man said, “was to encourage
undergraduate medical students
to become more interested in
exploring the basic physiologi—
cal abnormalities €11Ct)tllll€l‘0(,l
in surgery patients. in discoverw
ing new surgical techniques
and in refining old methiiids.”

This goal already has been
achieved. and student teams-
arc now hard at work under
the supervision of experienced
faculty n’iernbm‘s. ,

’l"hcir projects range from a
study of a “quicl freeze” meth—
od for treatment of ulcers to
the use of an experimental.
“bug“ for collecting l'luid irom
hydrocephnlics. an al)tl01‘t.‘ll£tlit};‘
in which. a child is born with
an inability to drain cerebro .
Spinal fluid out of the, brain
cavities.

Enthusiasm Obvious

Although the research pro];
ects and experimental desgns
vary, the enthusiasm and seri-
HHSHESS of purpose of each stir
dent is obvious.

'l'he students work on specific.
individual proiects and also
work together in teams. assist
ing one another on operations.
in the development. of research
tools and in library” studies.

”the brilliant: young; mind of.
the medical student, is most.

t) i

stitmilating for the more l‘llﬂ’

t‘ure researcher,“ said Dr. (Ii,tt‘~-
its P. Art-2:. Shrine professor
of surgery.

“Bright. ir‘iquisitive and cre=~
ative- students bring t‘resh and
productive ideas to an investi'
p more in ., ‘ ‘ be added .
“At the same time. they learn
ipatmg in today’s research."

Under the direction of Dr.
Arm. 9. student research team
is: engaged in studying \‘ar‘itnts
gastro - intestinal problems.

Stomach ~ Freeze

Unc- area of this ‘.-Vt')i'l\' in
volyes an evaluation of the ot-
l’ects of a stomach . freeze proc»-‘
ess for treatment
James .l. Kent of Port. Arthur,
a l‘mirth — year medical stu—
dent. is directing the project.

A still newer liquid nitrogen
technique for freezing stomachs
is be i no investigated in ani-
mals by second - year

of u l c e r s.

“This freezing technique ap—
to be beneficial in the

tients is under investigation in

.a number of medical centers in u
this country

and a broad. ”
Other projects include that of.
l'tnirth - year student..

graft procedure which
replzaur-c a damaged esophagus.
The esi‘iphasus. a tube which
connects the mouth with the
stomach. is often damaged by
a child's swnlhmring lye ot‘

1 some household cleansing agent.

Safe Dosages

also is investigating;
relationship between mitt-1
administration and safe
levels of a number of
anesthetics.

lra l7. 'l‘unnell l‘yler and”
John l.. B a he r of Orange,
SBCt'll‘lCl - year students, are also
worsing with Dr. Arts.
"l“umiell is testing two
drugs. DMSO and Sulfamylon.
for their effect in burns.
Baker’s moiect involves an
mrz-iluatirm of a new high pro~

(Iiuillet

of

,tein concentra-ite ~—— Prrwiinult-

which is given orally to patients

to replace [.‘irtjiteins lost after so ‘ ‘
vere injury or serious illness.

Another l‘ElSClil‘Cl‘l
girl'enr

di Faction

tea in o t‘
students tungl‘er
Dr. John R.

of

gery, is involved
related
and circulation.

Charles Minis

in a

to. the heart

of Mission

is.

cal technique for replacement

of a damaged femoral artery

(one of the major blood sup».
ply systems of the upper leg).r

,‘which may need to be replaced

. sclerosis

. lewis.
- plastic

va riety . ‘

id" Facilities Encourage

b e c a u s e of an accident or;
the ‘;

(“hardening” of
a, rte ry ).

Another surgial technique
being modified by Eugene Pat--
terson of Panels involves
i’leyelitipmcnt of an auxiliary
“bag' to aid in draining away
excess cerebrnsspinal fluid
which collects in the brain can
ities of hydrocephalic children.
Present. drainage techniques
often require frequent opera-
tions to keep the man-made
drainage tube open.

1

Under Dr. Derrick’s supervi—

sion. other projects are being
the:

carried on t.
develop m on t
m on ta l

includes
an experi—
technique

One
of

so rgic a l

hesions from lung to
wall) by use of a sheet of
Crop applied to the
a rea. The procedure
(‘lrLWt-Teltiijicd by "l“ed
Norm n ngec.

A study of various agents
such udrctu‘ilin t h a t. raise
blood iin'cssures is being direct“
ed by Glen Sizinltiaugh .lr. ot’
Hiiniston. and a micn'i-circu—
lotion pri‘tiect is lming conduct',~
ed by .lun‘ies H. White of San
Antonio, under the (zlirectitm of
Ted Bond in cigiopcration with
Dr. M Mason Guest, chairman
of the. 'dtninrtmcnt of physioli'r

25*

ch est

is

Ni‘ivosad of

2-15

Blood Cell Passage
In this work. a high ~ speed
motion picture camera records
individual blood
cells through the capillaries,
small blood vessels approxi‘
mately the size of fine. sewing
thread lite blood flow is re
corded before and alter admnr
istration of various drugs and
fluids to clotern‘iine which are
most elict‘tiye

prom pt in g.
Etclequ ate c i rcu l a lion tolli mri rig;

the passage of

in

‘ experimental burns.

Plastic surgery research pror-
eels are being; comlucted by
sec,ér.iii('l~yenr students under the
supervisicm of Dr. Sit-aphen R.
chief oi the division of
and moxillogicnl sur-r
gory and director of postgrad—
uate education. and Dr. John
B. lynch assistant proi'essm“ of
plastic surgery

Ralph Poll of Waller
ducting a study of chi-Flt palate
l‘t?‘('f()llSll‘U(‘lititl tccln‘iiqucs in CF.—

is unt-

[.m'ul . . . lloiuimirf . . . .‘llllll.‘i(?’lll(?lil.\‘

Sunday. \ugust lb. l‘lo-i

student ' 5533-3
James R. Winn of Uvalde.

 

i.
,.
,i
‘l
,3

its.
llC‘VV .

 

. which
. rection by plastic surgery.

the I

to ‘
prevent pleural adhesions (adﬁ:
= m al growth .
Da— j
adhesion g
being

isc veries

pcrimental ziinimiiils. (Lilett pah
ate. it birth defect. is l‘iasicslly.
a split. in the roof of the mouth
generally requires cor-

One of the major unsolved
problems in this deformity is
the occasit‘mL-il failure of the
bones in the middle part of the
face to develop properly.

Check Growth Rate

The present; experiment is de—
signed to check the growth rote
of these bi‘mes in two groups oi]
puppies: one group with cleft:
palates that have been closed
surgically, another w i t h cleft
palates that have been left,
open. to determine. what face
tors in cleft, palates a re respon-p
Sible for interference with nor—

liiactors involved in causing:
skin cancers in laboratory rats
are being studied by Phil Sharp
til Custroyillc.

"l"v~.>o burn treatment studios

GASTRIC HYPOTHERMIA

also are underway in the neu"
in bo rs. to ry. directed
Cal Valle of Rio Grande City.
is on the effect: of a silicone
spray on the healing process of
burns.

On (3 . by

Another, ti‘i’n'iducted by .loe
Black of Lubbock. is to deter

. mine the effects of saline, plats”

ma, blood and other fluid thera-
pies on experimental burns and
human burn patients by means
of measuring the oxygen ten
sion in burned and unburned
tissue.

Experimental .k'itilncy trans-
plantation techniques are being
crmducted jointly by the divi—
sions of thm‘acic and (.‘Ell‘dll'lV’aS‘
cular surgery and plastic sur—
gery.

A project by Stan ’l‘hawley of
Galveston and Dan l...at:imer of
Mount Pleasant in this conned
lion involves the use of ti blue
dye iniectirm to demonstrate

esearch

the lymphatic channels which
involved in the normal im-
mune that. prevents

Surviving when.

are
reaction
organs from
transferred from one person to
another. '

Observing the many and?
varied projects under way in
the new Surgical Research La.h-..
oratory, one is reminded that
“research in medicine is a»
never-ending study for improgg;
ing the care of the ills of math-.-
kinr."

4.!

And. that the tremendous
expansion of medical research
in the past decade has been rim
spinisible for many break?
throughs in medicine, with the"
bulk of investigations in the...
health science field being conf‘
ducted at medical educational
institutions —-— such as the Uni—
tensity of Texas Medical
hunch ——by faculty, l'cllmvs,
residents and students.

machine is studied by medical students (from

left) John L. Baker. lra L 'l‘unnell, .lz-imes R. Winn, James .1. Kent and Glen (1.
(iuillet. The equipmei'it is used for freezing the stomach ill the ll‘QE-llthnl oi ul-
cers in the new Surgical Reseurcl‘i Laboratory.

. . ll (ill! lrls . . . I‘iieoluri-‘is

(la lyest on X en s-lr‘i b'i'tnesl ~B

 




 
    
 
 
   
 

 
 

_ .' , '?013 P1111r Drive
./ " * . , ' ,, -"113.111111, 11.1111 7?5§2
' . ' - 111111Vlé, 1111

 
  

 
   

/é%ratww D111

lgﬂd§111§

1‘ . 1 ° 9-... 9‘7“ ‘1
Ayn.11b11, 11111111 11101

    
         
    
            
         
       

‘1“ ..-. . 1.. ..
D1 :11“ 1.1....11 1.13.? ,

  

/ I 1111 1 1111111~1~1111 11111, 1t 1111, 111 111 in} 1111 11rt 11
my 1111.111 1111111 1 11r11111y C§éf 1111 11 M11. 1111111V11 311511 11th

3 . ': 4° «:3» .« ... .. 3 . 1 r 3. ‘ ' “ ' . .‘w :1 -.~~- " A‘.“-‘" ““ 1-". an I: a. '3" -‘ :- 7» .r.":
1111 111 11 11. 111 I 111.=h I 111 111“13 1'1 111 1‘ 5111 11 1” 5 11111111.
1 .

.'.. - . . . a. ‘1 1 1.
.. . . 0.0 5 5:. 4:3 7‘7 n.m'¢1? .M1‘& 71- 1 9. vi“ “3 “1. ~ ' ~e ~ ' :9» 1.
T159... 1’ a.) MC. 1+ v: m. J 21.11.33.111 . €1.13. 1.1. L.‘ DELI»; ’33.». ‘3’ 1. w .95: «.- 13

..,E

if

  

       
      
     
     
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
    
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
     
     

N

K vi» 71-3 fl‘ V 3" a 5,3? b (5‘: +1“. “.3 '1‘” A" , 1‘10 f I" {W », {:3 1-w- TI Ken. 1- 15“ .13.. «j? .n.‘ V“ t ‘3 p13,», 1: 3’43 ya ”,3? h 1"?! mi ”‘E .5?“ t. “n. '41:.
J J; -5... .r. J.» ‘0 us 1‘ s... 1.4 U1: 4),. my .1. ”.1: (‘1, y L.) .«- m. ‘u bfoC 1“» it”. .. M/ 1131-253. 9 .‘s. 33.! w 1 *1. 1.3-. £3,113.11 k. .2. 3:36 111'»...- ‘mu .1. a! Ax..-
" - - en. "t ~, :~ ~ I. .—3‘ n 3“ . -> A» - ‘0 in 9 ' . - m 7 - ;' . . a . v“ '9 ‘- ‘ ~‘"‘~ “' " ' puff".
1111 1'11 1111 111111, 111 1111 11 1111 I”. 11g 11 113 1111. 11 1111,
“ '.- _ - m..- c r v\ .‘v. a - ~. {in ‘ q 0!. . 3' ,- ' L 'g 3; , . ‘ ,w‘ - ‘3‘ '5‘? f ‘ 5 4": \“1 :3“.
J 1:311: 3.3. .11 .5? If! , 530.313.1313 Q .3. '92" 3.3.3" S 311117313 06.1.31? 3. 13.! f: .e‘ d. a: 3.: .1. 3:: If 53. {2' 3:2. 5:3; 1 ‘3.» 3. '3; 3.7:: {.27 -3. 31 C 3:) 1:: {:63 {:3 Ci
:4 V... ,1, 1.. V- “1‘... . 1 .1 1 2., ‘1 11,, 1 - 9 ) r“- ,, 1, . l 3; .f 113?. ,. .5... ,4; .; Ii ‘ 1 ,V 1..- 1,2... .1) 1;. 3 , .3 I 1'" -_....,
.4“- "\~"-- ti 2.3%. ’13 .‘ h2- u 1:11.113 - 311;" 35». 1",; L..l 1.1. {13- w. 1:1". 1?.“ L." k.) l. E. 3 O 3. E1113. («I V! .49. ﬁ‘ 1'“ > {A Li 1.1.1. (-13}. 1.9.53.3 Ca. 10 .‘L , Mix “A. . 9i 1:.)
f-“x; ‘4 | . ~ ‘3‘ ‘5': 'n " A" "“ .‘ i. . " '4‘." "‘” -" -"~ L” T E I '3‘" . r. ‘ .1, ., . "'I- '95” a 3 :1} . 1'", '3 - A‘ 3 '- . 9 ," ‘ 1. ’v t" . - ‘, ”3
1.: 11.1” 3316:: {3. .211: 33% i 1.. {5“} 111.1 3’ 3.— 11.1. .11 3 I; f ' 3111.11.3{11‘ .211. 1.1: 1.3.. 33.11%" a. Q C U. 3; i: 1'15! 13.6.? iii. (a 1.3.. 53 C h ‘3: (3.1.
3 1.: ‘3'.» 7 -~ _ I: > 9-" w» ; 1 ' ’3'" ' 10 ’ A. uh .1" :1 3.1- . I: 1." rs,
1'1 111 11.11 1111 1 11111. 111111.341 11111 111 111111111
"‘ n . v . -1 ., . J. : , , . , 1 . ,. '
1111111111 1:111. 1‘11 1111 05111.111 111 111 £1111 1111 11111.

, a. , - 1. '* 1 .. . M . . . . . , - , .2
11111 211. year 1111 J1111, 01 .1111 11111 11 111111m11
G 0‘ 3 "W ‘3‘ '1 “a" ‘5!” 3L". i " f" 7. m 1" f“ ”3 V? '”: - " w t?" "3 w" 3".- - ﬁg ‘9'» L1 “" "f3 ”‘3 " .4 l 6N

:2 .;. "a 6': :1: 1 f.) 1.5. $1 .2113. : E: m {71.1. .2. (:31 .3. .1. a... .1. 5. (1'1. v.1. .111}. .er C V 1:; 2,111,: c; .1, 9 .1, ... a; L

1:.
9:: I. J; ,1 +. 1..., §§.€ _ [:11 1... A“. (, A. L... ‘ g 1,. . (A 1"“ ‘ 7“, ‘1 .3 r ‘n J‘ h 5’5 3‘". . {3*- -~. $ 3.3 ‘0 7 “'3- .i. 1.. t 3 vi
J. 1-1111 1 31 11.1% . o 1“} 111:. 1.18 C 1.11 ' OR..- :..'.> 1.1.1.13, 3.1:. 1 r X 1-; .2: 16: .3 . 11111 1.1.1. .13 (E 1”...
1.» - 9

n OD
, 2 m . -: 3 .1 M- *- 1-11 '3" . T .‘f' 3‘ ”3'
'u.» a 31% at» my . 3. C .3.“ t." id "w 9:333: W
‘ ;~ "—-

9‘ Au 1

272.. , . ., , {‘3‘ r I (1'7" . , I a. r 2‘ ~!‘ -'~-. .I. ’1‘ v 3 n \ 1'33 ,-"ﬂ 0". ﬂ ' 3"»
1'1"" 3' 3?" ‘1'“? .23 9 1.299% 9 HTS o 3 113.3. 11111 171121;“ .. C 1 153 1" 1*». 15:18 1' ’1. 11 1. “"2. 273-8 9
1:3

3“
v 1 ‘1 C?" “1: ”3 v“! #119
. 3.1.3.3. 41.13,? (.2. 12.11.1143

w .41, 13" .- .: 3a, to ._ ' .5 3-. w. A- s. 3“ 5 \ "‘ '~ "’ "H "-
111113 .11 11111111-Q 19:1?1 11 1011111 111 11111 1

.2 ,1... 3° '1. . i. . . ._ ‘35 , f’ . .11..»
1111113. 1 111 11, 1mm .11 11 11 111111 11:11111. In 111 1918, 111 11:1
.13., .1 2' . -;.. 1., 4.. . ~' . 1 - "r 1 1,.- .. 3 . . 1, ._ - 1 1 ‘ ., ., f .

4~1mt 1111111 .1 111 1111111 10n111 111111 111.111 1111 11.1 31111111

”.1

U.
. r, '1 . ,‘ m '1 Mn ,-~-- 7», .;- “I, =. 4- » y w. 4 .m ‘ . . . , -. : ~vq 1.‘ - r. r" 5‘ M, ‘t' 'P “‘ ¢ . ‘
111 1111 11111 1111 aha. ﬁmny 1 t11111f 1111 111 111 1111 1113 1111
, M ,..-, '1. . .4... .3 a .3...” . ,- 1“ ". . ,” "*‘. . -. a ,n . ,a «a, .5 n. :v g‘f : "' '
1111 1111 11 111 1111r 51111. 1111 51111111 111 111111 11 111111111
"1' J.- .- J ,1 '1 n a
111 111 111111 1111111 111;11 11G1=ve1111

111 033111 , In“. It 111 11131
1 11111 1101 ta 11:1 ts £1311 11111.1 111th1111. 1 1 $11 1111 11111111 111
”111 11 111 311. (1111’1 1111111.} 1111111111 1; 111 113 111 1b Glut 11
' 111 111 the 11111 taizt 11 111111111 he 111111
1 g

1"“\
l 4
{3
far! 11.3
33
1’:
a
r”
‘4’.
L.
' 0
553
:«ug

.. 3, .
"" 3 "C. . .‘5 n x a” '47. . '3' 7n a '3 ° v’r
- 11 .1111.~ 1 11111111 t11 111» 1 111 11 111 1111 1111. 1-.
4". A ~ um. ‘ . . ,» +w‘ « . r‘ I‘ - s . ,1, - v ' .3 ‘.‘ 9., . 'I‘
313 1 1111 .110 11111111111111 11th 11. 511 111111 11, 111 1111111 11,
3 ' - 1"“ '2 "v ‘ P o ' '- r I x. I: ..,, “m f' n J'W w. «v w ->.. 4"" at --.; :n " 1,4’“ 3' . ' ‘3‘ f " . "‘9 "g - f" 3’ ”r i‘
111 111 1:1111111 11111 :1 1101111 11111 111 111 111 111 111% 111 11115

n
11:11 1111111, 111111 and 1.111 11 11111 111111 1111 are: 11.

'32:

I 111 11 111 1111 11111111 111111 her 1111 1111111 111'11 th1 11011,
11111111 111 1111111 11 had 111. 11 the AWL 111 11111 111 their 1111»
£1123 h1V1 111r11111. 1111 111 111131 time, 111 111 11 1111 mere 11: :per1~
131 1.11111 11 1111 111 can share 11th 11, and thu1111 111 cemfcrt1111
1111:. -1 dwn‘t 111 queatiens, th1111, and 111111'11111m1 1111 her 111.111”
11111 11" ““11 111111 11111 1 11111111 111111. The 11111111113 3 181111111
11 11 , 1111 111111 111111 th1ir 1h1lter, 31% 12111y 111111r11111. I

. .r- ‘

3
1,-.. - .. - T? ... . 1 A. .1. .I‘ ’ 1 ‘ . ... V11. .~ -. .. . ~. 4 “- ‘,.' "' V' ‘5 r“ "
xiii-.113 3‘7 5‘39». 3': .3311;' EC" 3: :- 1.17.51. 31'3 .1. 1 {3.1.3.1} 5' 3,3 t (.2 ﬂ 0 ii 31’“ 3:5 CL}??? 3:} -1. 1. 5.1 3'34 :j. "-v «'- "'~" ‘1’ 1" 3“ t 3.131 g" 3" “M '2? in" l 3.53.

a

     
 
 

.9 . “ .. . . . v.-. a... ‘ . - . a 9 ..=_ . . .. ~ .. 1‘" t '1’ . 3.? 1° .2 rt" ‘3 ‘L t . 'r“ '
111111 1111111, 111 1'1 1.111. 11 11 1111111111 11 -11 1111.1 1111. 111,
.. _-~ ’5”. 7" .. -1 ’1 "t l ‘_ ‘ ‘3 ’1 r: 1 ~ ,7 ,3 “A ‘1'» j_ _‘ . f. ,. ,"' 5..., .- J» an. .11, ~11. 1“» j. I. m r‘: 3"" 3 I" ‘5" if" r": 4%

1'." 3' ‘1": ,. (.15.? ‘1’ 31313.33? 35":- :3; L 1' 3-3 ‘23 o I ' L}.- l 3.11;? 3: ‘1; , .5 J... 1;. 5111.1. 23 11.13.... 41213. a 1.13.. 33,133.11 -1. 11:51.3! '1. 13- -1 g r 1-,: M O

 
 
 
      
       

\ 9
,...’ IN V a“ - .._ .2 ,
{1' .3: 5.43 O I» 1i; J. a b
.-._ c. 1 “g ..'.’ .
, 'I _ *- " ' . r ‘ L 1.. . 1. - V ‘ p; - w" m 11.: “$- 71 w. 1» r 1" 1'2. -, ‘4 v ’2 «
1'" . w. -'~- ‘I —;-.- V “. Cw '. z '1". - ‘ 3, ~71 V- - . 7: ' '- " ‘ -" ‘J ‘ "*’ ‘ -- "'7 ‘ :4 v .. 1' .‘ ; . 1 ’~:“‘- . .4. 22“ ~ . 7..
“.115: .- r313». I. 3: 141.316 ’1? 1“": 11.39. c .1.» ‘ 3.4 .14.. .’3.. .r i 5.- ‘u‘ r "J’ 114'- 5" ‘Ju 9 l... a.“ if 4: 1.131. a... a!» 2' 11.3.4 v: 31 Mn- .1. .1 ... —- -~ «- w" ~6- ‘t' i, 9 r
- . . .- .. ~ - 11 , z «2.. - . . . 1 - an f»
-. 1.. {1- ~~ Hi 7- .; (.1, "5 ~° " r» -. l-V - '3“ . 1:. r3 .‘ . .. .2... "' a; «.a. .1, '3" .. f.” ‘\ 7-2: ‘3’ it 3 2“ ‘~ ‘1' 21."; 'W 4"". :3 Z.“ 3} “Z“; 1: I ‘23 r . Y»? a * 1-“ {31"- :1 ‘
_' ' ..E'.-: “.43 '11.; “ . If" i:- a-Xv --u\' an". 3.5»- I‘hé—WJ . '1' .3 .".:3L.:: :3 {>9 3.33;: ’4’ n~;—LIE"\ 3: (v5 K4. 3-." 65 «3... ‘9 «it'd. ‘1'. 5‘ «'1’ “41.421351" o‘xu- '\ ' ‘-’ «ARV O“ b ’N' I!» b'»“" ““’ ’4 "" 9
.» 9: ..~ «'-

    
 
   

    

 

., . 2 . -

a 1‘ w,“ r: ' {,1 ‘3. , ,. ,_ A. ' ~ .. "" ~ .1 .1 - a! m . . '1" -

.- . . 9v. -- a» . ﬁr! -~. 1* 12/11:» :n wqu '7‘ {”‘-:".; ~‘."c ' -::f"~‘1*~~. ' Y“ :' "~-‘ 'v- 2 . ‘3
" ‘ ‘1 - f 3. 13‘ (i. 3.4. 1 5w". ‘ {i‘ Q " 7 5-1» . " 1.? 5a 11! (71.2. C," Lt 11‘;- ’ 43.4. ”3". 3,; ‘14 ....§. ‘u .4:- éf‘. ‘-~' «Jr '1..- ' ‘m “(A "\ 3W3 ‘-'




MrQ. Dorothy Dyce 8/16/6G -' . . 2

I hQVQ always been QQQQ, above board, QnQ completely free Qiﬁh them.

Anna feelQ quite free 10 ask to See letters from my file of correspondence,
-Qnd though there 1Q much Qhe hQQ net QQen, and now some she cannot,

I dQQ°t want to accumuthe Qhat I must Keep from her. Thus I am not

1‘0113 to say mere 021 this nature unless neceeQary, and if I have to, I'll
put“ 0Q Qe QQ QratQ sheets. '

. , . . '; t
Pleaee bear thlﬁ 1n mind, 3111 you, and if you have semethlam/Qﬁe sKouIa
net Qee, write it QeQarately. I felt I had to clarify this, but think
we eQn Qveid QecretQ.

Afth MiQQ JonQQ' M ttQ r 11 1961, the next centact from Q national organi-

QQt1Qn Qbeut ccmln“cGQ1vvthen, QQQ Mr. Kind°e letter this year, June,

1 thin QQ. (I'm not 1Q*Q11; up dates and wording.) ‘HE said he was planning

11w3 teurg Qnd named HQth en ameng tthQ cities he wou1d visit, on the

t1}? ee QQQQ he eite Q. He hai my name {rem Mrs. Stevene, with the thought
at I might nggth peeple 1n Galveetcn he should see. I was pleased '

tQQ1 the teur QQQZQ be dee, and ehagrined that QQQQrently‘he would be

33 near QLtQLut QQe1n3 what '3 here. I felt quite certain he would not

get te GQIVQQ ton, ceuldn' t with such Q Qchedu1e. I knew toe little of

Q1Q elieatlcu tQ feel it was any Qf my businer 35 to Qu3geet changes in his

"3

QQQQQ.

think h1Q 1et th QQQ a feeler, theugh, in hepes that maybe the

petee m13h1 bQ lee to thQin an invitQtien for him te visit here.
cenQiderat1oQQ aside, I Knew I ceule net ﬁe that, but thought maybe
AWL ceu11. I theught Mrs. StevenQ QQQ in more or less regular conw
=11h MrQ. MQQQ, Qnd wandered why the letter CQQQ be me. I called
QQQ 101d her about the letter, asking if Qhe had had one. He,
QQd mat, but Qhe Offered anytﬁing Qhe or Mrs. Gertie could do. I
QQQQQ along ﬁth effer, e1 ceurse. I was QleQQed ta have been in~
eludeu, Qnd QQ it turned. cut, I QQQ the cue whe could help. Had plans
been QQQQ with Mrs. MQr*1Q, they would have fal‘en threu3h becauee Qhe
QQQ moving, Qhe QQQ 111, her hquand QQQ 111, Qua QQ was their little
dQQo 111 are better new. ‘

T

1”
3;
A

99
Cu
53.,» , .3.
9

”3

I QQQeetQG Q Q1re or phone eQ1l from Mr. Kind, frem Qemewhere not too far
away, QQ QQQn QQ he knew when he weuld arrive in HQQQten. I planned to
£131 QQQ 1f tQQre 'QQQ Q trustworthy heat in Houston, what QQQ needed there,
hut in any evth, to meet him, either at the QirQert or at his betel in
HQQQQQQ, with Anna and/er Mrs. Morris. ’

Githeut more infeertien we CQuld maQQ no QEQQQ except t0 try to see him.
I hQQQd ﬁhat QchedulQQ weuld work out so that we eeuld whiQk him to
Galvthon, and QQQQibly a phene call frem the~AWL would enable him to

see the facilitieQ here, then hastily back to whatever commitments he
might have in Hethen. -.0r theQe in reverQe erder.

111 er I QQQ ﬁre. Stevene' letter telling that yQu were coming in Mr.
K1né°Q Qtead, therQ was me chance for talking with Anna, and I saw no
difference in QhQﬁ Qe Qhould plan. I had thought that a woman bould
preQent lees preblem if we needed housing at the last moment (tourist
QQQQQQ in Q rerrt city), but I had figured new to manage, with two

alternativea, f0? Mr. Kinﬁ.

 




Era. Derethy Dyce 8/16/64 V 3

Mrs. Stevens intermation that Mr. Kinﬂ had-written far an invitatiwn
here wag welceme news. I'd like t0 have'known definitaly that he had

an invitation or did not, but figured that he cauldn't gay yet. He

did tell me that Hra. ﬂyce ; uld K699 me posted, 3% when I didn't get
further infavmatiom, 1 fig: there was acne tﬂ be had. Thiﬁ is why

I didn't kaap calling ﬁrs. Moss; meanwhile, 0f ccursa, they were waiting
fox news frgm me.

Then came your call from Heuston. Nat mnly had yen_arrived, you had
getten intm Hauston, made ymur viSit there, and were ﬂame. Next thing
Mrs. Morris and Mrs. Mos$ Knew, you had left Galvwatam. I can ea$ily
understand that they felt a bit left gut. I hope that yﬁu wrate a

note of regrﬁt about act ageing them, explaining that it w&3limpgsaible.
If not, it should still be in 533$.

I may acme time have oppnrtunity ts ask what work Anna feared ycur vigit
mighﬁ have chairuated, but I don’t intend t0 maﬁa an i$$u@ uf it. Tha
qmeatiom 0f the AWE wag as I've said befcre, based an the campremiae on
legialatimn the AWE hag accepted. Anma and I haven't talked at length
“vabeut that, but she haé wondered haw cloae tha Awi wag ta mutright sanctioning
and Euppﬂrt af medical researCh., Anna'a mat Willing ta 30mgr0miaa at all.
The more she sees here,.the less Comprcmising she i3. I understand and
Shara in th&t. 0n ihe ether hand, it is unrealigtie ta bald Gut fer
perfect legiglation while milliong endure tarment. I tea wandereﬁ abaut
the AWE, buﬁ rereading of much of year filea hag led me ta believe that
you aarefully diatinguish between oondemaing resaarch ﬁnd gendemning
imbumamenesa in it.

An asgggm¢~ In View of my recent correapondenge with President éohngmn
&nﬂ Dr. Eyestone, I'm gcing ta wriﬁe all lettarg with were in$iatence on
lagiﬁlatioﬁ stronger than thmse you &dvacate, very particularly 0n
enforcemenﬁ other than in the hands of HEW. I think it is an insult for
my lﬁtter t0 the Pregident to be turned over to the animal pracurer fer
the NIH. That‘s all he is, for all of the high-gaunding titlﬁe Yen
wmﬂ‘t understand this, Dorothy, but Mrs. Stevans will. I am encleaing in
yaur copy 0f this letter, Mrs. Stevens, a capy-nf Dr. E.’s last to me.

ﬁe would/.gpyy, I think, not to hear from me further.

New to your letter Qf Auguﬁt 12th.‘ I reaﬁ it as I ate lﬁnch Friday,
'ZQ homr3 after it wag postm&rked.

Pleaﬁa don't apelagize far lack of promytness in writing ta me, eapecially

when yam are not lacking. I hadn't eXpectea ts hear aoaaer, or even

wheﬂ'ymu wrate. As far my hcspitality -- don't m&Ke too big a thing cf

that. Beartw&rming 15 seldom one~aided, anﬁ in thiﬁ muﬁe it definitely

wa$n”t, I aasure yau. If there is.a debt, it ia on my yart,. we did

hava a awed time, didn't we? In thia game vein, ﬁwn't'have the least

hesitation about asking me to d0 what is needeﬁ, asking for my time,

etc. I may have ta Say I cannct, but de asa, freely. Thare is suah a

Vﬁvy little I can ﬁe! If I can’t oblige, I’ll say 50 with genuine Pew
ﬁt; if I can, I'll de 86 with great pleaaure.

 




Moo. Dorothy Dyco 8/16/6# _ A

Your plann to write letters to pooPlo hero arooloar.. I fully ayprovo,

and Knon'l'll approVe the.lettero. I do appreciate your thoughtfulness

in offoring to sonn me copies. Sometimes it helps to be informed. If

you have not already Written to Mrs. M033 and Mro. Morris, what would

you think of including them, sending them copies too? Even if you don't
allow time for than to answer before senéing your lottero to the people
to'nhom they are addrosood.‘ I can see no harm in this, and it would neatly
include those willing people who did not even meet you.

I‘ll react to lottoro you propose, or be glad to have them without time

for ouch reaotion, whichever you want, and will surely send you copies

of whatever gets into print. Better lot no know, though, to expect
pntlication of.anything. I uonally don’t get the evening paper. I'm
encloning for your information a copy of the caption of Penn of the Peeple;

it givoo'instructionn far letters. Have you a magnifying glass?

Mrs. gtovono may have made herself a copy of the Blount report; she has
‘ noon the one you have. ’

Anont the log pound hero. Yeatordny I wrote you a letter from which I
am going to enclose excerpts hero. I'm not sending all I wrote yesterday.'
'Mrn. Stevenn will understand when I_say it was a poor letter.

Aftor you'vo road the enclosures, let me know any specific questions you
mood anoworeé. I'll oblige if I can. I'm sorry most Of what I supply

. has to be secondhand. If you can get the local AWL to work with you,

they might supply not only firsthand information, but more complete and
current information thntn I have, or can get. If your buggot Says yea,
and you come here, g3 take time to plan carefully, with me, the AWL, or
both.' Lot’s lay it all out so that we can make the most hay while the Sun
shineo.

It would not Surprise me if you could get either Mrs. Morris or Mro.
Moon to go with you to the Medical Branch. Weekdays, of course, Anna
couldn't, and they may not be ready to take on the University. I don't
Know. Either of these peeple would give you wonderful help and support,
‘though. They Can be formidable. In planning, whether for a vinit or
other activity, if it should turn out that the AWL wants to work with
yon, but not also with no, don't hesitate. If you think it best to do.
n that, go ahooﬂ. It in not essential that you inform me, though I'd
like for you to. Should you visit here, need my home, and not feel I
should be included-in details, that too is all right. I'm trying to
mane it cryotal clear-that neither my foolings nor yours are so impor-
tant no the job to_be done. You're not likely to hurt my feelings.

Tho moot oympathetic person at the University for you to appeal to?

Anpoal for what? Dr. Poth (pronounced like "both") may and may not be
humane. I don't think his care for his own pet Ghihuahua cuts much ice.
His reaction about the dogs that did not get the narcotics Could be

due to his pain over the dogs‘ suffering, or to the fact that his findings
were thrown out of joint; possibly to both. I'm sorry, but I don‘t Know
and can't find out. Dr. Poth's position? 'The catalog you have is for

tho coming year, so he must still be in that position. He is getting old,
and I've heard talk of his being replaced as Chief, tnough. He is a
‘gentle‘ooul, kindly in manner, quiet, dignified,.genteel. Ho's earnest

 




Mrs. Darcthy D365 8/15/6Q‘ ', ' I > , '7 5

and c5 mn cerned abaut his catientm. _Gther than thi5§ I don’t knaw him.

I 5gree thét the problem in Galvestan .15 going 15 be difficult, me matter
what problem an refer t0. I can't tell what 5r0b15m yen do 5555. In
your aarlleﬂuékﬁ'anoka earnestly for 5 hum555 saciety herea and of ‘
005558 I strengly 53555 that the need 15 deSper5te. I th155 yam must
mean the prmblem of 5555565555 in the Eabcrataries, thcugh.

The city 01115151' most certainly are 50rk1ng with th5 1555earcher5. Bath
Galvestam 5nd @5555 antincruelty 1555 55551 ically 5xempt m5dical ram
search, 50 the situation 15 5 langmstanding 555. Yum ncteﬂ Era Elcunt’s
£555r5b15 5055551 abrvzgt the aava ntage<u5 r515t’1cnship with the city offi~
01515, 550.

I5 5555 copy 5; this letter 1911 en01555 5 copy of 5 555555551 5rticl5

by your wood friend Kitthendall, that 53p55r55 thia murniag in the‘

Sunday, waives“ﬁw ﬂaws Tribune. The ’f115f paperS are cambineﬁ far

S5t5rday and awn“; . d5ily

'ltzy's tone here 15 mat 55 it 555 when reparting yaur viaita 15 it?‘

N0, J15 $555511 15 not related to Kitty. He came here in June, 5nd

Anna felt he 555 ﬁning to be 5 fine ally. He’s be55 5‘05, 555 a £511, and

55V5551 oth51 misfortunes in these £55 55555, and intends 55 leave Sept. 19
51y5 Mr. Hunter has came arounﬁ t5 being helpful, 50 m5yb5 5he’ll
hsddwav on publicity anyway.

ﬁr. Mabley? Terrible, but no eurpriae. Eurray for ygu and far Mr. Mobley,
555 for th5 nurse who 05115 d the police, tom. The r5555105,5b0ut the
"irregul5rities” which had occurred is tha 555555 555, 1'5 afraid, incluéing
th5 555 which 555 no daubt happeneﬁ here. This very attitude and the fact
thg'aw it 55555 so 605505, is the strongest p055ible‘argument for unequi~
voc5l legislation, 555 certain enforcement.

In the upper right hand corner 9f the first p555 of the 50555 I gava yen
55 .5cilit155 here, yam will find 5 notation about a. 20~y55r report an
M.D. Anderson, in ﬁcustén. I had that hock for yam, thinking t5 offer
it prior to yaur visit (plural I guppased) in Houstan. In it thera is

5 chs pter 05 reaearch 35155 On at M.D, Anderson. It 55115 5f1515 5553
clu55 at what to 1505 for, but there's little an 5515515 directly.

Givea 55555, 0f r555515h555, I mean, and summarieS of their inter55t5
and activities. 5155 includes 5 1955 biblicgraphy 5f research done there.
I h5ve this 5555555 05y B555 workeé there 5555 when she left here for

a cozple 5f y5 ars. A friend 5t»M.D. Anderson 5555 this Gapy to her only
5 £95 5535 b51555 you arrived here. Cay hasn‘t read it y5t. She got it
15 55 1mm5di5t5ly, 50 I could affer it to you. I h5d it in the 551.

.I ﬁmn’t believe yeu want it baély encugh far me 15 5555 it to you, but
ﬂay 5535 to 1555 it t5 you if you want it. If yﬁu ﬁe, let me 1555.

555. I155555 will remember the name Glenn R558511 ~~ one 5f the meat
cff555155 51 th5 meeting that ousted Mrs. M055 £555 her 555 arg5niz5tiam.
5355 th5 515 wh.c was 50 beautifully dresged dawn in publia that same night,
by 5555 5155 5 than Mrs. Morris. She laid him out 15 £155 35dylixe, unmi5~
t555b15 termg.

 




MLL. Dorcthy ByCL 8/16/6L ' é

; at?) ' ‘

3 maileM 3023 a clipping abeut him whem he left ta g0 tL UgMﬂﬁa. I

found gut recently fram Mra. Mnrr s ahd Mra. MGSS that when he left

LL Lad ta miﬁra up a Lcautiful 0L3 3e e, hiﬁ pet. He deesn‘t mew it,

LuL tLL man WLL fouﬂd that callie a 30 53 home is a Staunch memLer Lf the

AWL, LLL Lf tLL men was was Lrament at that fLLqul meeting in 39623

I'm ELPLWLLL 0n LnL thin: I tald you ahmut. DLrLtLy. ThL bLard 0f

iirectarﬁ LT the NM” Liana} Lag gue for Muraing. I'm witLdrawing my name

Tram Lhazt, much am I wan? ed something LL get me to ELL YerL SC I Lould

was Mrm. Stevens. I figured tha involvement, anﬁ 3 Limplv Leuldn't
y my Lame anﬁ am that LLL. I'd be away a3tagather tLL gush. Maybe
(tﬂlmﬂ 81$.8, 13L7£5 aemandLn“ will turn LL. 3 LL96 an.

I dom't Lnaw whather you gave Mfg. Stevang the ahdr.ﬁﬁﬁa and phmne num-
LLrL I Lent Mr. Kind, 0r whether Lhe may ever LLLé any Lf them. Mrs.
Mgrria LLL MLved am“w&v L0 LLre they all are far bath Lf yen.

t 9 _ J ¢

‘ -. “a l *3 “12*
MLS. Lama 3; 35 ; Area.C0de 733 SHwL-QBQQ
{1:311 0313’ Sh’. ;
G33WHTLLL, Texaa 77552

w‘ = l V ' . .
ELL. L.M. Mairlg " .&~ Cﬂﬂﬁ Tlﬁ SH~L~3597
22:23; 33:3; mvrm
$33VLLLLL, TGXﬁﬁ ?7553

3135 Br””ﬁﬂ w'»* p‘ 3 "15 SE~L¢Q87E
PG {3153? Dr; ‘
@ tan, ;3&: €TTF5§2

u. LLL “:,€n33“ LL expect

€333.33.»

MLL. LL,3 mid Mi 8 be Mrs. Hunter, Eal3a15
am LLLLLL yet.w She aLLrLciateé your suggewt

b
i

GLL LLLL thmugate LLL ut a pessible visjt here «u if yam can work with the
AWL, 3L sgLulﬁ Le ea day t0 heuae ya u wivately and cgmerLably, and for
yam LL LLL sowlevw LuLyLrL 3Lca31y. Pub3i¢ity cm auzch supLLrt might
bGCEt LLL ALA‘L lccal supLLrt, tea. Anether tripb Leuld LL considerably
mare PMZﬁXEQ, a3 well a3 mare graﬁuctive. I was, an'ﬁ Lti33 am cancerned
LLLLL LLL ﬁﬁwvtbla LLnL ion under which yea were wcfh ing. Nat Ln3y hard
”3%, LLL L”uld 1m531” effiaj Laney, 9L.
3% L33 fLr new. HopL.it L3 ea ﬂange and that it 3% uLqu3.SLmL day

ah:- ah-

Etwvvnn, 3'31 write yam ten Ebert, plaiL wardﬁ.

LLLL wisheg to bath L3 2 Lu; far wLaL yam have ﬂLLL, thanka, and

2.!

TL? anythimg you can 3L yet. Even if van can't, tha aka far gating

Sinaerely,

.7

 




IWWW I. TWW d03 pcund WWWW.

I have WWW imerWWion thWW WWW don't reali~W thWrW is 33 innavation in
WWViW3 WWW Wit” qunW adjacent tow u.niVWWW ity fWW ilitiWW. This rWTWWionWhip
WWW Wxthedeﬁ:Wll WWW time I have been in WW; iveWtoW, WWWW-W 1938. I 30W%
know for WWW lWW3 bW.f WWW that. If yWu Will leak at the WWW of WWW camqu

you have (I WCW’W have WWW before mW WW .Wn’t '3ive yWu the numbering) '

you Will fLWW WWW AthWl Smith Building WW Strand Ave., WWWWWWW 9th

and 10th StrWWtW, facin3 WoutW.‘ That iﬁ thW original medical WchWol
building, alWW calle the 01d RWd EWilding. BehinW it, WW the WWW Wh

WWW Wli3htly WW W;, is the Animal HWWpital. ThW WWWW WtWWWW (WWW W3 83.,
running WWWWuWeWt) iW dichtly hehinﬂ that buildin3. TWiW is W stuch
buildi.W3, WWW WtWWiWW, with WIWWWWWW winWWW alon3 its len3th. All

W3 WWWWW WWW firmly bWrWed. ‘AWthth WW the WWWW WWW Wf thiW buildin3 iW‘
WWW W13 WW3 WWWWW. ThiW iW an enclosure WWW thW thirty by WWWWty feet WRQWEW?
1W WiWW. Each WWW 1W WOWde over, Wm? th WW unroofed space iW the WWWtWr.
I’ve never bWWW iWW iWW. It agpears that therW must bW WW3WW at either

WWW, WWWWW WWW WWWTW, With space far the truck WW enter WWWWWWW them. I
WWWWWW if the CWges WWW erthtWW fer the elemenrt. All Wj.dWW of this
WWWTWWWWW WWW eWcloWWd bv concrete walls, the building Which WW dcubt

WWW W W003 :LW it, WWW three stucco WWWWW otherwise. I'VW Wried to leak

° WWW this 9P3]..0ﬁure 1303 the Ashbel Smith Building but it WWW’W WW QWWW.
The AWWle Smith Builu1nw, by the Way iW the WWW that thWWW the amphi~
thWWWWr Where Gar; EWWW WWyW there WWWW to bW, maybe still WWW, Wrthopedic
303 WW dner Quarters. ‘I have seen W mon3re1 dog 33113 3Win3 aang at the
WWW of W ropW, bWiW3 led into that amphitheater. WhWt far, I don't WWWW,‘
-but imW3iWWtion Wromides a number of passibilLtiWs. Frcm t WW WWWW

AWhWel Smith 3133., some time in July 1961, I WWW W Wand Wart bein3 pushed
WWWWWW the street. I WWW attracted by the WWVWriW3 WW WWW Wart ~~ Purina
CWoW WWCWW'WpWWWW out. On tWe cart‘WWW W number of dW3W ' bellW u, all
ccmpletely matiWWlWWW. TWOWW thse necxs I Woula WWW Wore light tWiWW

leopW With a Knat in WWW end. No cuts were viWible, WWW all boﬂieW

WpWWWrWd wet. FWWWW blood showed here and there. All do3W Were about

15 to 10 IWW. in WWi3Wt. When I rer the HSUS WWWW WW WWiWWIW in W rWseWrch
laboratory, later, I WquWcted these d03W had bWWW bled WW Weath, fully

 

 




M33. Derethy Dyce 3/19 /63 5 _ 3

333361333, 33 gravida 31333 for the heart machine. I 33111 think this.

33 u3ual, I've gott33 away fr3m the subject. A characteristts all
333 familiar to you, Mra. Stevens «a th333’3 3333 33 3333322!

B333 33 333 303 33333. The official city 33 3 pound is 33 longer next

ta the An'mal Heapital. I don't know just 3333 13 333 33333. I would
33333 399 . S3metime beQre th3t I tried t3 interest 3 333 "animal

133333” in Starting a humane 3cciety, but 3333 3f th3mV333 both interested
333 33333 333333. An3th3r stary} Stay an the beam, Virginia, stay on the
beam.

I3 1999 the 333 Jmhn Sealy Heapital was 333333. (3 h3 buildﬁh 3:5: in which
913““33 333 hi3 office). T333 gatient3 33r3 33333 from the Special sax»
33331 ﬁv33 «a 333 w» burn and plaﬁtic 3333333 pati3nt3. That old SSH
i3 3 33313 333 II barracks complex, perhap3 ? or 8 buil3ingsput togeﬁher,
about 3 31333 333333. .3033 time since then ( I can‘t be aura 0f the
3333} I 333333 33333 that the dag pound 333 h33333 there. It wa3 likely
13333 33 the time of Dr. Bleunt's report in 1996. Last time I wrote
I 3313 333 it 333 still ther3. Today 335 033 3f the few Saturdays I
3333 33 3333. 03 the way 3333 I drave bv that 31363, and believe it
13 33 133333 the 333 paund. A sectii 33 01 3311 h33 been pal led 33f,
3333ibly to get at 31333, but 3183 Dossibly a Start on destroying the build-
133. 933 3333 333 not been cut recently, and befere thu e traHC3 where
t33 t3333 3333 to 33133 up to 3iacharge 33w3, a temporaf§0?%hce all the
333 E3 the 333eet has been erected. T313 appears t3 have been a matter
3? i3333i33 ,331333 eacape during moving. The entire building has an
3333:333 3333. M333 31333333133 t3 me, 3333313113 81333 I dare not 33
33 333 33313 3333f31 333315 I get so fur1033 and fru3tr3ted I sometime3
333333 if I 333 stanﬂ it. Of course , I 333 and will, but when I 33 re—
133333 £333 33 preaent restr3i Int, I'll have 3 lat 3f grimnesa driwinﬁg 33.
I911 333 13333, but in the most calculated way.

13 3333 3f the recent mentian that the 3333 had 3333 maveﬁ to the 333

rt? M33 33 313333, the denial of the 303 pcund there, ané assuranc3 that
it 3.33 359, I believe same surgical research must have been hou33d in
33333 313 33333333 all thesa years. ( Administrative Ceuncil of the

333331 3f 333 3133 was making c1333 303333133 and searching for classrooms.
T‘m 333333333 3f 333 C. Variou35roema 3f adequate 3i33 were mentioned,
333 3? 3333 33 th3 333 3 331331 research building. I inquireﬁ after the
33”3‘“* 39;, 333 3333 333 been waved «a ”3here 13 this 333133rium, in the.
333 333336 ” R3333, 3oftly, ”The SSH.-

333 3135333 33333 aﬁjacent to the Animal Hoapital continued to be naed,

33 £3 33111 3333. 333 knows fer what. East 3f the Animal Hospital

:3 333 333 been 33 3333, fenced yard of diaka an3.chicken3 (Br. Rigdan's
331 in3nt I 33ppo3e). T3333 that yard tee is enclm3ed in a 3333 fence,
tinr/glew of prying 3333 liae'min3.' 2 ‘ '

I 33 3333 3333 afraid, Dcrothy, that whateve3 ki 33 333 ingtzgl led by
3333 visit 3:33 33331333 3313 in closing and barzing the 30335, shuttin5;
aff th3 30331311133 3f di3cevery. Debarxiﬁg the 3333 and 3133133 the
3i33033 to 33033 t33ir cri33, as per Mr. Mobiey incident.

 




Mrs. Dorothy Dyce'8/15/64

Item II. Still the dog poundz> ' '””Q*.‘;4kﬁﬁmm

January 1961.» the one meeting our Schmol 0f Nursing faculty had about
establishing a humane society. (Neren’ t we Nreamy, and naive. )

Attempting to survey the need, we Spoke cf the present conditiana of

the dog pound. Only One of our faculty ha& been in this Que, Chlee Floyd.
She told us it wasn't Egg bad.‘ Yes, the dwgs were baged, n0 nNt singly,
several in larg e enclosurea. How did the Nega looN? What'was thair con»
dition? Wll, moat of them weren‘t Egg baa, for strays. TNN N Egg ene
all tnrn up and bleody. The dog catcher had told them, ”YNN. that big
dag aver there nearly killed him. Nhe big dogwas still in the Name

cage and the wounded one hNd not even been inspected: N0, the deg catchers
hrﬂ not stmgped the fight -- ”The dogs are always fighting.“

(This same thON Floyd visibly lost intereﬁt‘that ame evening Nhen Lt be~
came clear that a humane society would have to des:rcy many of the animaﬁs
taken in. ”30 you mean that after we take tlzem in, we’ll Eiii them?“
IKtemporaNy chairman) asked if she would ur63b 9 t0 maintain them all?
Guatodial care for all t0 live out normal liveg? Her mind was alreNdy
closed, 80 Nhe probably didn't even hear my dig? courNe on the quandary,

the Gaucity of alternative Opportunities, the prevention by a spaying pr0~
gram.)

Item III.

196?, cbablv late April. I rode, to lend maral gupport, with Aﬁna M085
,and a Mr&. Orange, to the dog pound. Anna wanted to age the plNCN fer
heraelf. I stayed about half a block away. in the car with Mra. Grange's
threN dogs, all rNNcued strays, all now beautifully cared fer, much lsved.
Anna anﬁ Mrs. 0. went in, ostensibly lee aing it P a lost dag. They told

me what they had Neen, and I Suggested pretty strangly that they record

it, date, siNn, and preserve it. Anna may have done so; I don‘t Know.

Mrs. Qranga wag almcat physically sick, but Said no, that she ﬁuat Eﬂﬁléﬂii.
§g_that kind 0f thing

Thﬁy didn't See all cf the dog pound. What they diN 399: ﬁne enclvsure
abcmt é ft.x 6 ft. In this were more than a degen dQNN. large, small,
Nell, ﬁiCR, male, female. One small female was in heat mﬂd the males
NerN fighting furiously, foccibly taking turns at her. One small black
female, with gently pleading eyes, lay crowded into a corner ever a tiny
dead puppy.

Water and feed had been in containers above the flacr, aggarently, but in
all tila activity it haN beNn completely Spilled ontm the floor. with the
excreta therN. Seme of the small dogs were fighting to get NONE Of the
fwcd. The place looked as though some cleaning was done, Nut 0f COUPSQ
the foects WQUld not laet in such a melee.

IN full View, beyond a fence barricade, there wera other d635, in individu-
al 63 NNS. Mrs. Mesa inquiréd, and was told that was the University Dog
Bank, that these dogs had been selected fer NNNearch. This portion was

nmt opened for them to inSpect. As far as scald be seen. all was quiet

and clean. They saw and heard ncthing to criticize in there, but they
aﬁuldn°t Nee Nil}. '

 




0f

’:

.3 ,. 3') _ s . -, a...’ .' ,- .- ,1 1, {7‘ . '\ i“ ‘4 ~ u 34, 4m 3‘ V —:-'v-
,} QM J 01" 35.} L1 :1" A {11333115 I 2. o W ii: I}. as V ‘21-1‘ ’1 11%” U "" ""‘1’41'113
1 as v.1. i _... 3'3 a?” A. 1“; 2.2;.“ .V H i‘ ‘ 5“ TH i é- In {x 1 1 1" Lin C v; '3 1/153: "'7' ”in, gt: 1.», (3.6 $3. a» v4 D '1, 11»; (s) f
\r *s- \I K .. h.) b O .. .. - 5‘. 4. a ,. J: 'v Li. “J M. .1 .~. Ls. } :x‘ -.1..A...g::‘:-} L 1.44.. f»; ' $5.314. 1A“! v; x: n
. G
V" 3763 C3 77) €313.53: s3 'f s , ' " " " ' £21 SKEW F5: 3”,.“ li’i,

”‘4

s. 1 . - J; V. I.
. . V" . . ,w , , ‘3, u ‘ 1 ‘
"ﬁﬁ *‘at wnan CQQEQ

it with your lette ‘— "" s «s

w. am
3’ 1. i

' ~.» ‘ ‘--. w, 3' , I < v f r'. . x1“ r- .- rum
4‘? s.‘ s. :1“ , s .a .2 4.. U. A: “1.5;“ “as- if CM. 9

.,.,. a a w ° .1. a
yeast :7 @LJbILbi-LQI;

 




}3M~,,.~ D, m, 5.3””.
Lit’vo "J’A. {39:35

.3 ., '1‘. ‘3. . ‘~ ,..,.. .”
ream, 1&33 a: emu y, 'n ma

3333333333333333vm$¢m333e .3333333333333333333333 33333333333333333 333

 




6"“ ('14

V)

.f‘

tit
‘v-

"1 5w

7
l
.L

I

C- ?1 a

‘1-'+f
‘-.,.‘,x

I
\
U
I.L..\.J 0

3 t
V (€13: ' ~

(u

& tn
Fr“ .3-
NJ L)

u.‘ ,7

‘ L13. 5i i:

.r.“
I.
“A .»

\N. \N
. ". x .
WVVAvﬁmtfﬁ‘k r a. A. AP.\ »

ﬁ§ i-

i

a s V. y. -
i, am?“ i» .x mi

N\\A.\ A‘ \Rx. ﬁ‘vXArLMV I‘D \rNLR If

 




Weﬁwwﬁ

. A . . . ,A J. . AA A . .. .. J J . A .A.A. 3 1a..
: _ j A- A. .. J A .A...,..J.
Mn. 5 *3 ruin!“ .. k m A A: J J. J _. .J. . JJ. , . £me .V 5......

. 2:7, .A... A J .. .AA .....AJJ. Law W53.
3..., ,A . _ .. J 323

.33 L:
c .4 ‘5.“ we? .3 ms

. 3 . JJ . .l . ... I! s 1..
1., .t J . .A at... J .1); g .1 . A... .33 1. . .. . . J . ,. .. . 5.. .x A; . . AA J .A . , .A. . . . . J y A... A .. A. J.\ ... \9 wt?
J x. 3 r” mun n. W. 4 .. x A .A. 1.. 1... ”AS‘ :3 rural”. if. . . .. A . A . A , . . . .. .. 6?; rw v.33

su . .. . . J . . A 4. . .. .. A . .2 x e! um»; \J?

a. \1 In. a .. .4. A. J a a A 3. L3
. I .A.. a)» . .2 , .. J . . u. .. .. .. A. . . . . J , . . A. . .
.. r...“ «a. .. A a 4 .n r“. .wAV Mn... A . . . , w 92% for It” . .M. ... A. A. 2 . . A , A .. . . A A .J .1 {u syF .

v. .

flu. 33.6..

. . :a .w J . . 1 . chi :w. Ed (I;
A . ! , .u if . . . a . . . . a . K.
:thwa .. .. 2 .. . . . A .r $1.:er

m .1... W JJAHJA m... mg. m.» E
J. . .J. n . um

.66 J... .J!
h... .

.x.

‘4 J. C . x. .2
A .
.v r {artifiu

if A}

(WK. J... .. L A. AA ,. ... . A.. . A -. A.. Jr

J. ”a
P: WSW:

.' OJV
. A “J.
5“,? ..A\

.3

.M:

f. FL

0. J. m. u .J._.J ..

J u .A J.
Ami...) “w.“ 2)”;
.2 gr . .ATeFLi

 




427;, chm/£22; 69% W? mi Wm 12 2% W, ﬂWW 214,
WWW - .W f; h ‘ /a I

Q)» [le 1%L/u/«l/og L/i/wt/ /(W/ [1714/ ”ﬂy/V MW, g“ 1 / /ﬁC{W 77/LCC’C 7
u /] .‘ (I .. _ , , (W I?

2W 7" W 7%; WW Way-W WﬁgW . 444247444444: / $122., 4%

ALL/1W, '42 {/3 pvt/(f/Q (i/éwaﬁ . ‘ agﬂ/i/UC/C ‘Zb’t/ WI? ch/Z—ra’é/f >76)
:4 ] 1:44.,(1/4! ‘/LX/4‘ / yg

M/ éa//

 

C/c4\/ ”4/

171/454”

n r /
4 Z4244 Q/j /5 J v
971/ M / 4.4.2 baa/WQ’W/ W 'é/Z/Z/Ld/

4 "‘3 / 444/44/ /7 ,4,
/ V / 2/ do

A444 44 44 .~ .a.‘ _,__ .
4\ @gwtwé/ 4 44L“ / %;ﬂW (/7 J ‘8

 




?015 Pm§lﬁr g
ﬁalvwﬁtsﬂ '*3 E 7???
July 1?, ‘

a

L'

1n tku . ”,9 ¢; 1; w.,¢“‘;3m
I a -- ‘ I' 4‘ . . . I -.‘ ~ . , n . IQ
‘hﬁ ﬁenats " ~- - w 14

‘ :u . . . .. " A ., . ‘ n‘»hl‘-'."
1 . - . . ,
(

alto“

T” 5'
513'? 7' 221.31,.

a. ...-. .

Q 9
6.3 X I «L.

1.‘

r; "a 5-
3..-‘. .L \v

.- a
,u. ...~.,.
\ 7‘“

. J J
fuﬁﬁrﬂmr*

Ll mu.

_.Ha :m‘,w
vﬂjul ;33QKL,

 

\ a“ mu em: - ‘ae-tm'ﬁhm

 




$PLLidLﬂﬁ
LLLLL HLLLL
L1 LLL E). 3%

IL

4 {Pléﬂwjjkgy I2. Elﬁn?
LLdﬁ
QEUQE g? 3162‘»; in
tw tMEL 0f

ﬁymﬁar%ﬁlV@mT
LL-
'LLLLLE
mLé IiCdl
LLLL
LLLL

«1.1" m; 236?: c;

LLLLLLL
'CLL LL
61*: L E LLL 9
”LLL

:3. £92,”?
ﬂDM'ﬁI‘w

ix?" 6} x. 2.63

a‘ 25““ ’
8.?) 3V1 : _

3..
E ‘. U ‘
‘ 'X ..
1“. Jr} $13,.
‘1‘ ”an“

at;
\J Fx‘buri:

L ..
.. ,_.
W- 1 .I , ,. f, 5! w a". . . .f‘. ﬂmw ‘

m i LI: L963; 2. E» 4k I3. 3. 51%:
I": ~ _ '.~ .
5. HS“, .1“ AM,”
133%» ‘11" 34w 6‘ a?“ 1’5.
._ L- ; . . -
~, ‘E r J» um '1 ,
I»: k.“ .i If; .3: w J." eu‘
9; ~ ""
.u' "" ' I." ‘3'?
135. 'ut A”.

l't

it?» :7 :1:- 591; 2:29: (‘1’ Li?

LTL LLL ﬁlarLi LmﬁLL
'5’" 1‘3 r if"; “9 «1-. «H- g; ,,

a“ 4;!» if” 1".“ ”Lu .1 :"-"'i.'\v r 9

T": "“ ' "“ '7, ‘f ""4 “i i “fie r39
6.; i; :3. \M Uzi. If ‘: Lei.

-. “I 5y
.I: ~’ ,4-«5 my! I‘ {I}
e: m n. ”av"

‘51:; G
in? ?
‘ ‘J L a

Slim];
LLL
‘ .
LLVL

I‘LLLLL
LLLLLL iLtL LLdiLLl rLLLLLLL.
ifﬂahmh Cwaa{?i*r1

ELLLLLL ALL

LML MLLLL, L631 Tin

EXT}?
{:3} 3?; 0’14)th (:4? ﬁg";

,“3'ﬂ‘g’2‘
wziwja «(ukulJl‘ég’

. m :w» , . - .
LLLL ng£ﬁﬂ1ﬂ 4 :a r\ Lﬂlmwma CL nnUt be
Lanwwuz’L

L;:2:vzﬂy
ﬁzivL
.lL LLLL L
LLLLLL
& IL LLLL, LLLLLL
MilLt”

LL 3i

2; LELLL

LLL LLLjLLteL.

?015 EeplLr BLEVL
LLlVLLtLL, TergaL
July LT, 19L ”

LLCLLLL of deLral
TLL 3L3 which hLvL
LLL LLL LLLLLLiLlly relLtL Le The marVLELLL
LL mLLt lLLdLble. The LidLLLrLLL LLLLe and
LLLLL, hOWLVErg LL LL.‘t;:.r"agg,'Lmuss;,a LL tally repre~

‘ ‘ :;:X_ 7“)“:
“ Marin {J‘muﬁ o

{ELF LL you LLLL, LLLLLLLL

\
‘9‘“ 3‘
‘M‘ EEJJEAQ.

q

LLL,

Gf Mai Lying;
LLL tLL LitiLLLL
315'? (Lﬂréfitﬁ 511E163.
L'fLr LLLLL
LrLthy LL»

tL LLLVLLLiLL
LELLLLLL. TLLt tLeLL rLL
LLLLLL fight LLLLLLL
«LELLL LLLiLf. LLL LLLLerL or LomLLLL
LLLL L? L LLL LLLL which LLLLrLeL LLLLL
LL LL MLLLLVL finLLL 1L2 LdBLﬂTt LLLLLLL

LLLLLL LL LtL;LILt, LLLL LLrle LLLLL
LLLLLLLLL but Q6“
it :3 LL veer L

1m LLL LLLJ LL iLiLLL‘i’LLL

£43.“: I ﬁfliiE

WY
E?L

.-

ﬁ 1‘12, ‘2'“. “'2‘!

QLMLLLV
‘I

Ltixry LLLLLLL can.
LLL LL “

L,LLL LLL LrLcticL LLL

L L. CLLgrLLLL

LLL m; 37k? .
. 3,. .
.2 {fat

LillL LLL .WLL LLfLLL LLL
LLLL LLt LLLLLLt LL? LLL LLVL beLL .L'LLLLLLCLL,
LL EQﬂdSLL! LLFTLLLL LLLLLLL ﬂ.n&Lr5ﬂ“ LLLL‘WLLLLL

LrLLLL LLLL Lf LLLLLLL L0L2L IWLLLLL LLL 3LLLLL
I LLiiLVL LLLLL Lf LLL bLLlL LLL LLLthy Lf LLLL»
LLLLLL (L. 555): LL \LﬁIﬁy (E.Lg LLBQ} LLL LLLo I LLL»
:LL LLLViLLL LL Li LLL LLLLLLL (L.R. L6 Lil.1..

L LrLl Luxane LLLLLntLr ngiLw
kiLLfLrtLLLtLlyg Lur ELLLL LLL

LLL in LLLitiLL t0 LLLPL rLLl
LLLLLL LLLLLLL LLL teriLLL CLuthieL

It Wééﬂa WLHLLLL LubLthtial LLLLLLL
. LLLLLLL LLLL .LL L,1L tiLL. ELL LLVL
LLLLLL, LLL '4 . LLLL cf yen LLL LLLLLL
3‘33"; my 0

LHleF
hLaPM

’L“ LLL
LL 1L LLLLtLrL

'4

4
4.8

LP
’3
‘fg’f

LLLLL -- *-r .r <LLLLLLLLL1L ianLLLCL tc rut LL
LLLL tLLLle LLL mtiLL, ijL «thLLy. I

(If {:3 I}: ‘63" 4..

ELSLLctfully LLLLL,

M. VirginLL Br Len

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EAST 17TH STREET

NEW YORK :3, N. Y.

()REGUN 5- 1 069

Jet-main

Mrs . Virginia Dryden
7013 Poplar Drive
Galveston, Texas 77552

Dear Mrs. Dryden,

“limasnslosingaasoopywoﬁwBerothy*SWlettetho*the“
Galvestoanimes which I hope_will be published. Through;
out the tour by her and by Tom Kind, there were unsought
interviews by medical writers, so it would appear to be
a nlanned action to make trouble. However, one has to take
the bad along with the good. Attention is drawn to laboran
tory animals even though not in the manner we would have
wished. Further, the plans for new building for animals
are being submitted to us so that we can criticize and
modify them prior to building a a matter of major impor—
tance. Perhaps on a future visit, advantage can be taken
of the information you have on other animal areas which
Dorothy was not shown on her first tour, Follow;up visits
are of great importance in this work? and I hope we can manage
many. It is the only way to get action so long as there is
no legislation.

In answer to your question, I haven't heard from Mrs.
Moss for a long time.

Dorothy had a terribl cruelty case to look into imme-
diately on her return to Detroit and did a firstwrate job,
so you needn't worry as your letter seems to indicate you do.
She is an extremely capable worker. I know none with more
courage.

All good wishes and thanks,

Sincerely,

(i/flidécééé:sc. é?“

 




7015 Poplar Drive
Galveston, Texas 77552
August 30, 1964

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York, New York 10003

Dear Mrs. Stevens:
Some newspaper clippings to keep you up-to~date.
Meant to include the August 18th item in my last letter.

Today‘s is meaningful in that Dr. Blocker is firmly in the saddle, and
that means that he has the requested budget. He had said that failing
approval of his budget, he'd not take the job. Appopos of this, I
now have my appointment for the coming year, with the hoped-for in-
crease in salary that will likely make it possible for me to retire from
this job in 1968. First benefits will be in pay check for September, early
in October. As I think I told you, you will benefit a bit from this.

,1"
The clipping from today's paper is outrinclude (page 6A) an article
on electroanesthesia. A&M is a bit east of Austin, near Bryan, at
College Station, Texas.

Have not written Mrs. Dyce, but Mrs. Moss says the Houston Post, not the
Houston Chronicle, bought the Galveston papers. I'm not sure about this.
At the time the Houston Chronicle bought the Houston Press, much was

said about the last ouppost of competition being dead. I toolithat to
mean that Post and Chronicle ownership was the same. I still think so,

but Mrs. Moss isn't often wrong. If'I run down more of this, I'll let you
lnow.

Also, our Galveston dog pound is still in the ancient barracks building.

On August 6th I heard two broadcasts on the local radio that the dog
catchers were enforcing the leash law and picking up any dogs loose on

the streets. They've made a clean sweep. The only dogs I see loose on the
the streets, I see only chain Dogs are now on leash. On Tuesday, August 25th,
I heard many dogs barking, seemingly fronzthe space between the new Surgical
Research Building and General Stores on the north. Barking excitedly,

not crying. I thought the dog pound must be there, so drove by old barracks
building at the time it is open to the public for redemption of dogs.

Truck and gog catcher were still there. There may be an auxiliary unit
alongside the research building, for the dogs 'chosen' for research!

Last week new students for the medical school registered, so of course a
large pool of dogs is needed for anatomy classes now, starting this week.
Distressing, but I can't do anything about it.

If you attend, or any of your people attend the HSUS Leadership Conference
in September, try to meet Mrs. Moss or Mrs. Morris, of the Animal Welfare
League of Galveston. I've been doing all I can to get them there.

/'

Sincerely yours,,
. -..- / -,

( 2 } I . P/ \.
f :‘ . .1 ,
/9/ ’ 0,,3‘

 

M V;

 




7013 Poplar Drive
Galveston, Texas 77552
August 2#, 1964

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th St.

New York, New York 10003

Dear Mrs. Stevens:-

The enclosed is apparently in reply to my second to the President,
in which I commented on Dr. Eyestone’s letter. I haven't written
since I received Dr. Eyestone's last that I sent you.

Sorry to be late getting this to you. I've been very busy and
had a house full of company too.

Sincerely,

 

M. Virginia Dryden

 




August 17, 196k

AIR MAIL

Your recent letter to the President concerning the welfare of
laboratory animals has been referred to this office for reply.

With regard to your statement "extremes of wanton, useless cruelty,
outright sadism in some cases...", you may not be aware that each
State has effective laws for the prevention of cruelty to all
animals, including those used in research. On the basis of evidence,
you could avail yourself of the legal remedy concerning these alleged
abuses.

Scientists are subject, and rightfully so, to the same general legal
control regarding cruelty to animals as are pet owners, zoo Keepers,
farmers, and others who deal with animals. The fact is, that cruelty
and neglect of animals by scientists is rare. If anything, scientists
tend to have greater concern for laboratory animals because effi-
ciency, accuracy of research results, and the professional reputation
of the scientist, as well as his opportunity for advancement, are
directly involved with preper animal care and experimental procedures.

Sincerely yours,

Helen Neal

Information Officer

Division of Research Facilities
and Resources

 




 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EAST 17TH STREET
NEW YORK 3, N. Y.

OREGON 5- '1 069

July 16, 1964

Dr. David Rosenberg
30 Evelyn Ave.
Vineland, N.J.

Dear Dr. Rosenberg,

Dr. Aitken, your Secretary} asked me to get in touch with you concerning
the pending legislation to require humane treatment of experimental animals.

Although there is general agreement among physicians and laymen alike
that animals used for research and testing deserve the best possible treat—
ment, the extremely rapid growth of numbers of animals used in the pastien
years has led to widespread abuses which urgently need to be curbed.

To do this, legislatinn setting humane standards in the care, housing,
and use of animals in institutions supported in whole or in part by federal
funds has been proposed. The Clark~Neuberger bill, S. 533, is based on the
time—tested principles of the law which has regulated animal experimentation
in Britain for the past 883ears.

Leading British scientists expressihe viewpoint of research workers
there as follows: Lord Brain, past President of the Royal College of Physi-
cians and editor of the neurological journal, "Brain," states:“The existence
of the restrictions and inspections imposed by law in my eXperience work ex-
tremely well and prevent the infliction of unnecessary pain on experimental
animals without in any way restricting the activities of genuine scientific
research." Professor P.B. Medawar, 1960 Nobel Prize winner and Director of
the National Institute for medical Research, states that the law ensures that
"experiments which may give rise to pain or discomfort are not lightly or
hastily undertaken. The fact that there are forms to fill in and an inepec-
torate to satisfy brings it home to the beginner in research that doing ex-
periments with living animals is a serious business." Professor F.A.E. Crew
summed it up by writing, "I do not believe that just anybody should be allowed
to do just anything with a ﬂying creature."

Your comments would be welcome and we hope that you will join with hu—
mane physicians in our country who refuse to support the stand of the Ameri—
can Medical Association in its oppostition to regulatory legislation. As Dr.
Charles S. Houston stated for the record of Congressional hearings: "It is
my firm belief that medical research would be greatly impeded were all inves—
tigation forbidden to use experimental animals. Such work is indiSpensable to
progress and should never be forbidden. On the other hand, there is no doubt
whateer in my mind that a great deal of present animal experimentation is
not only useless, repetitious, but cruel to the animal involved."

.jC:\~*°***“¢ 54,*., (thqu' |Vk4§44L~ \x>tas {J—dbLQJlJLlwﬂi:
r 3“ Lou pm mm W. TL).— ke—pus. 0-—( r“: """
‘ “Q M4“ Christine Stevens

(:
W n 2 ‘ President
. ‘ t0—444us. L\ c’“‘~ L*4&UUUL“L9QOJ~}/r

. laminae, Supt (W: I 2.

[we .,_ ’
. a

.4"

ncerely;

 




 

   
 

 

 

"*“I. ('4 at"!
1"

 
 

”m! -

.i ' I

.
' J; 5-; ’11:: ...
i . s; r .
. 4 . .- .4~:1_'-."‘-,.’jz ”.4 444,4_ . 4 4
. ’1 ':.-44:44' “2"- " 4
‘ a " “5- i. .. 3-,, .
".~‘.. -1 'v. 4 .4
~ 42m. . .4 . i
, I l . . «4‘ 7i.
‘25:” " ‘
. 4512.3; ‘ .1 4. 44~ . 4
. --'.:. .., ”5 ‘ ., , .. .
3 ‘ m-‘u‘ 7:11,} "5‘ .- '.I',.' I; .- .
~~:v-‘» ‘ x5 .: -, - '!‘ . I _ .
‘3“ '~' - 1:1,: d...» 71:" LL). ‘ . , .

; Oldest Newspaper, in H445 IPICI Year of Service to Galveston County. "Where the Space Age Meet-sh Texas' Historic Pa

   

 

4 *. §I\LVESTQN. TEXAS. SUNDAY, AUGUST. 30 1954 ..ztbm’... 522:: %

 

4,4.4444.4,.,4I4441414444 4444 4 .4.
”I44 MW. elm my: ”'IHII'IIIIIIIIIII

I . ‘
I

m H " l
Illm‘l um" I
4 4:444IIIII’4444 :44l III, 4 .44 . 4.44.444

“II. IIIIIII .; . . ~ I; I

.".V ‘ I I44 4 1 ‘I‘ Ill! .
IIIIIHIHImIHIII III III! .mml- ‘1 4' ,4 44,2? 4
’1' 'ii'. _4 44 4 £1 ’1“ L W , . ..

ith Gu

 
 
  
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

II EFFECTIVE TUESDAY
III

wBlocker Official ‘
Med Branch Head

. Dr. Truman G. Blocker Jr. terim 4' Executive Committee
.' as been named executive "- 1955-56., - , _ .

1
l?

 
    
       
  
 
 

 

     
  
   

    

to, . 4of4v4the University of Te - 4 .4.. 94,4, .. """""" 444
a e 44 4 51-1“: - 4 44- 4. 4 — 44%43’N44 2:44:44“ .4“ 44 444444. 444,4 4 4 44... "4!: .,:‘ ‘4-4 J.4 a . _4444.4 ‘2‘. ‘53
m4 « . .-_ 4 - M 41": rg-lGﬁl- tent t 44a]

. . . thetﬁ'umgeon‘< “General of the
nordifcedaggrolgimgarrngs Rig: Army, a branch consultant in
som in Ausrin. ”chancellor of surgery for the Veterans Ad-
the University ’of Texas ministration, and a consultant
' _ on burns for the Shriners Of

Dr. Blocker has been servmg North America. Primarily be-

   

as acting executive director cause of his efforts the medi— i an
since May 15, succeeding Dr. ' ’ DR. T..G. BLOCKER JR. Sl‘ll
J 011141 B, Truslow who was exec- . See BLOCKER, Page 6A . . ,, Executive Director SUI

 

 

 

utive dean and director since

1956. 4‘ - . ~~— ' 4 x
. “I am honored that the cen‘ V

tral administration and the k;
‘ 4 _ board of regents of the Univer-
.‘ sity of Texas have confidence I

 

 

 

 

 

 

in my ability to lead this great
institution,” Dr. Blocker said.
“It is my sincere hope that
144‘jn4—ethe UT Medical Branch will C]
RI. continue to grow and its ”aca- ’
’ demic standards will continue SCh‘
to rise — that it might keep 50m
pace with and produce its ton.
share of scientific achievements C]
in these exciting times.” at

Future Expansion

“There is no doubt that many
changes will occur here within
the next few years. The re-
markable building program is
well under way and should in-
crease in tempo during the next
five years; and as space be-
comes available, it,;4is hoped
that the highest quality of aca-

" emic .‘,4and 4 technical ’fpersonnel

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  

 
  
  
 
 
   
    

 

  

44 . 4.4éﬁegmmedto exﬁand 4 the
31" present departmentﬁ-., u ’make

.4 ;room for newly institut. 44 ’ "
yTomIgrams,” he said. ‘ 4 4
the! ’Dr. Blocker, who has been
1rr.leslprofess'or and chairman ‘,of the “
I ‘ . .

my 'department of surgery at the
)rity medical branch since 1960, re- 0313
age’ ceived his M. D. here in 1933. H01
I“ ‘ He received training in surgery
the at the University of Pennsyl- 311'?
sai Ivania and Columbia University, ha“
befdre returning to Texas in $13}
1936 as assistant professor of mg
—- surgery at the medical branch. acl
'Ork His appointments here also dl"
art— have included serving as direc- '

——-—

I

  
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
  

   

IObS I tor of the Postgraduate Divi— Tg‘

, 'sion 1946-50; medical direcror at
399' of the Medical Branch Hospi- Fi
'eh- tals 1950-53; dean of the'faculty ea
Vay 1953-55, and chairman of the In- m
on, "'5 di

e
‘ "”5 W ll

 




 

 

three 01M

alter clty detective Rlchard

g Sammy mam

V83 ton .

Funeral services will be held

 
 

announced later by the

runeral arrangements to be’

    

v—v w—uv - cu nun-y . ye i wuxrunvl
commanding officer a! the 807

Taylor Hospital Center. Galveston. and ca

"..

“I-J

1:

cl: verified that three Sunday at 2 pm In the Gulce- Funeral Home. was a member of r
, . . th S

Chad‘s totalling ‘218 Wh'Ch land Cemetery Chapel with the General's Council. ° "”8”" ers.

bounced back to. the Moody Na- Rev. J.T. Riley officiating. + \~ ~ p1 ﬂ S T]

tional Bank Friday were for- J. Levy&Bros. Funeral Home as c urgeon . ster

geries.’
The six additional charges

will up the total to 18 for Bell
whose case will get another pre-
liminary airing before Justice
of the Peace Orra M. Rich-
mond Monday.

Was in charge.

 

W. H. Taylor

W. H. Taylor, 85, died at his
residence in Dickinson at 2:15

 

Veterinarian Lands
Electroanesthesia

BY WILLIAM J. CROMIE

“Mister, if you’ve ever stood
watch for two days over a sick
Siamese cat that is Coming out
of anesthesia, you’ll know what
this machine could mean to
veterinary medicine.”

Thus spoke a “vet” at Texas
A&M University after viewing a
newgdevice that puts animals
(and peOple) to sleep by electri-
city._

Electroanesthesia has been
tried on practically every spe-
cies of, animal, including man,
with surprising and promising
results. If the technique -— now
in the reasearch stage—proves
out, vets will have a new way
to “put under” animals pain-

 

 

lessly and quicker, without un-
desirable side effects and with-
out a long, nauseous recovery
period.

Extended to human medicine,
electroanesthesia may find im-
portant applications in the treat-
ment of epilepsy, in space med-
icine, on the battlefield and in
your own doctor’s office.

The idea of putting patients
under by sending a “current of
electricity through their'brains
has been around since 1875. In

1910, Erench surgeons hooked up other experimental animals with $353125 l
a patient to an automobile bat- drugs, were halted by electric ing. ’
currents. Since such seizures A cast

his toes while he talked and

tery and lopped off several of
laughed freely during the Opera—J

 

or “narkie” as it is also called,
his patients are perfectly re-
laxed and exhibit no sign of
pain. If any of his animals show
signs of stiffness or breathing
difficulties, Turbes switches off
the current and the creature is
wide awake and breathing nor-
mally within seconds.

Only three of' the creatures
out of 400-—-two rabbits and a
dog—have died as a result of
the anesthesia. Turbes figures
“at least 40” would have been
lost with conventional narcosis.
He has kept his patients under
surveillance for two years with-
out observing any harmful side
effects, such as pulmonary, liv-
er or h e a rt damage some
times associated with chemical
anesthesia. '

“Don’t misunderstand me,"
booms Turbes, “electroanesthe-
sia is not the answer to all our
problems by any stretch of the
pain, but all were given drugs
before the electricity. Dr. Tur-
bes uses no drugs.

The genial doctor sees some
interesting human applications
on the nottoo-near horizon. He.-
points out that epileptic sei-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

zures, induced in rabbits and

are similar to those suffered by donned
humans, electronarcoms mightI

tiOI‘l. Today there are almost as] be used to “stop certain type their rm
many gadgets for administering) seizures and manage others,”

electroanesthesia as there are; according to Turbes.

users. i

In the one demonstrated at; Space Administration has ex-
Texas A&M University recently,l pressed interest in narkie. Sur-
two needle electrodes are push— gery may have to be performed Sullins
ed about two inches into the‘\ in the confines of a space sta- Nelson
skull of a bull. A dial is flickedi tion, and this technique would did .

N a t i o n a l Aeronautics and

and the animal drops as if it eliminate the necessity for re-
had been hit in the head with a covery room facilities and stor«

rifle bullet.

The purpose of “zapping” the
bulls was to facilitate castra-
tion. When the “juice“ "was turn-
ed off, the animal promptly got}

i
1
l

to hisgfeet and walked away en safely and instantly withoutiand
WithOUt any assistance. In a few \ the dizziness and nausea of “an- . Carte'

minutes he was grazingpeace-l
fully in a nearby past e.

Dr. Charles E. Short, working1

at the University of Tennessee-
Atomic Energy Commission Ag-
ricultural Research Lab at Oak
Ridge, has put under 101 bulls,
some of them for as long as 24
hours, using this technique. The
45 castrations he performed took
an average of six minutes as
opposed to 4-5 minutes by more
conventional techniques.

The device used by Dr. Short

and displayed at Texas A&MI

was picneered by Dr. Calvin C.
Turbes. a researcher at Baylor
University and the Veterans Ad-
ministration Medical Research
Laboratory in HoustOn, and
Electronic Medical Instrument
Company of Fort Collins, Colo-
rado.

Dr. Turbes, a man of huge
size and great geniality, has
been buying. making and modi—

 

fying various kinds of electro-

age space for bulky chemical Pan

anesthetics.

The singular advantage of the
\ their

electricity is that the spaceman
can be put to sleep and awaken-

esthetic hangover.”

Again, if an astronaut were New

severely injured during an ex-l
cursion outside his space ve—l
hicle, or were even to go ber-
serk within its confines, electro-
anesthesia might be the key to
handling him and getting him
back down safely.

Back on Earth, there are
some operations in which chem-
ical anesthesia c a n n o t be
used. Patients with bronchitis,
pneumonia, high blood pressure
or in a run-down condition may
not tolerate it.

The advantages of using elec-
troanesthesia to treat the
wounded under combat condi-
tions are evident, and the armed
forces are actively supporting
research in this area.

Another promising area of hu-
man application is as a local
rather than general anesthetic.

Dental surgeons should find
electronarcosis valuable since it

 

costumes
unsure
was re

type q
Van E

Funerals
TODAY
MRS. GERALDINE WINS-

TON, 17, .of Texas City; 8

pm. in Greater Bell Zion

Baptist Church, La Marque.

Burial in Sand Hills Ceme-
tery, Nacogdoches.

ARTHUR ALLEN CORSER,
91, of Alvin; 3 pm. in Good
Shepherd Baptist Church,
Shepherd, Tex; burial in
Restland Memorial Park
Cemetery, Shepherd.

MONDAY

MRS. IVAH HATFIELD
HAMILTON, of Indianapolis;
Converse, Ind.

MRS. LOUISE REYNOLDS,
81, of Galveston; J. Levy 8.:
Bro. Funeral Chapel at. 2
pm, the Rev. Vernon Rabel
officiating; burial in La
Marque City Cemetery.

Ankles Away
Looks Good,
Lacks Talent

The 12th annual production of
“Ankles Away” went off with-
out a hitch at Moody Civic Cen-
ter Saturday night deSpite
picketing by members of the
International Alliance of Thea-
trical Stage Employees, Local
65.

The musical, sponsored by 10
local chapters of Beta Sigma

 

Phi sorority, was based on the
“Something old, some-l

theme ’
thing new, r mething be r-

Perha

OI‘C

int

Th

H. Ce

Pro
earm.
of a "
Fund
Medic .

.....
............

 

 

     

He has served as president

of the Third International Con-
gress of Plastic Surgeons, gov-

ernor of the American College
of Surgeons, and chairman of
the National Academy of
Sciences National Research
Council Committee on Trauma.

A past president of the Amer-
ican Association of Plastic Sur«
geons, Dr. Blocker also is a
former president of the Ameri-
can Associanon for the Surgery
of Trauma and of the Texas
Surgical Society. He is a mem-
ber of the executive committee
of the International Confedera-
tion of Plastic Surgery. For the
past 11 years he has been a
member of the U. S. Public
Health Service Surgery Study
Section. serving as chairman
since 1959.

Wife Doctor, Too

A native of West Point, Miss.1
he received his bachelor of arts
degree from Austin College in
Sherman in 1929, and was
awarded an honorary D. 5.
there in 1949. He is married to
Dr. Virginia Blocker, also a
graduate of the University of
Texas Medical Branch. They
have four children. .

Dr. Blocker is internationally
known in the field of plastic
and reconstructive surgery. He
has over 150 publications in this
area. His work with patients
during the 1947 Texas City dis-
aster, in which some 3,000 per-
sons were injured ronowmg an
explosion at an oil refinery, at-
tracted nationwide attention.

 

 

‘\ Scream F oils

l

 

 

 

 

  
   
 

 

 

 

     
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
  
    
  
 

anesthesia equipment for the requires little space and no ad-
paSt three years. Dr. Turbes i ditional personnel for operating;

PYGfEI‘S the EMI machine be"; equipment or monitoring recov-

cause it automatically compen- ‘ ery. With it, doctors could d0;
sates for fluctuations in the pow-11 more work in their own offices,
er sou rce and resistance; saving time, Space, effort, ex-
changes in the animals, therebyl pense and pain.
assuring that a constant current! Electroanesthesia would be
always flows into the patient. less painful than a shot Of no-
He has zapped some 400 crea- vacain. Electrodes would not
tures, including does, pigs. rah-El puncture the skin but would be
bits, goats and sheen and P61“; affixed with a paste such as that
formed manv 671395 Of opera-f used to attach medical monitor— ,
tions, including major Spinal? ing devices to orbiting astro-g
surgery. Under electronarcosisﬂ nauts.

 

 

 

   
 

25 Suspected Encephalitis }
Wt!     InHousum eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

 

 

l
l
l
l
i
l
l




7013 Paplar Drive
Galveston, Texas 77552
September 28, 1964

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute'
22 East 17th Street
New.York, New York 10003

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

Please don't worry about writing to me unless there's something I might
or can do to help. I feel very much in your debt. I also feel very
close to you through mutual commitment and because of all you do, and

do so very competently. There would not be such a volume of correspondence
from me if I felt less comfortable about you, for I'd write infrequently,
taking time to polish and organize, writing concisely. I count on your
indulgence, but I also expect you to ignore that which doesn't really
need answering. The whole situation here and the matter of animal wel-
fare too, are so involved it is difficult to write about anything in a
concise way, especially when time is at a premium. Without even a ges-
ture related to animal welfare, my time is taken. I find myself con-
stantly saying 'no', fending off further involvement of assorted kinds.

The Wayne State University incident demonstrates not only the vital im-
portance of legislation, but how terrible is the situation here, with
exemption of medical research in both the Texas and Galveston anti~cruelty
laws. Mrs. Moss told me last night that Dr. Blocker burns animals without
anesthesia; I don't know what evidence of this she has. I believe,
however, that without Mrs. Moss and Mrs. Morris, the whole humane movement
in Galveston would completely fold. '

The two nurses on our faculty whose names I recently sent you have volun-
teered the comment that they have never seen a place so bad for stray,
unwanted, uncared for animals. Of course, both of these are young girls,
but they have worked and/or studied in a number of places, too.

It is a terrible thing indeed, when true humanitarians feel satisfaction
that little animals that have done nothing worse than being born, are
dead. I must admist to such satisfaction when I have been able to take
off the streets a little animal, delivered it to a veterinarian, and

know that euthanasia has been its fate. There have been several since
Mrs. Dyce was here in July, several that would have had a worse fate but'
for me. Today was the last, the most recent. A little dog I first saw
last Thursday, on the Medical Branch campus. Couldn't do anything at the
time because I was flying from one commitment to another. Today, be-
tween classes, as I walked across the campus, near the surgical research
building Mrs. Dyce visited, first I heard a dog cry. Alerted, I watched, then
saw the little female puppy (adolescent) with two males after her, right
at the door of our office building. She was trying to get in, and a
"kindly" secretary opened the door. I signalled to her to let the female
in, but she misunderstood and closed the door. The puppy started across

 




Mrs. Stevens 9/28/64 2

the street, the two males in hot pursuit. I walked up to the female
puppy, and she came to me, completely friendly. Traffic was headed our
way, but I was able to slip my arm under her and get her away, one of the
males jumping and tearing at me. Around the building toward my car,

I spotted Beverly Nelms ( one of those whose names I sent you) and called
to ask her to get to my car and Open the door. She did, and she went
with me to the veterinarian. Took the dog first to the nearest vet,

but while we were in the office the dogcatcher came in and made himself
at home, using the phone. I didn't trust the situation and didn't want
to tell Dr. Henderson before the dogcatcher that the dog belonged to the
Animal Welfare League. We left and went to another vet.

This dogcatcher is the one who lived on Hollywood, the address I gave

in the letter to Dr. Ross, reporting the inhumanities of the dogcatcher,
the letter which was ignored. This man, Allen Schaper, was not employed
two weeks after my letter, but a year later was again employed. He runs
down dogs with trucks, lassoes them and throws them into the truck. To
him they are "things" that are objectionable on the public streets, to
be removed.

I had not intended to write such a long letter. I tell you about this
incident today, though, because it involves Beverly Nelms. I feel sure
the little dog is now dead. I called Mrs. Morris about her, and was
assured of attention today.

Mrs. Nelms says that she told her husband (now) that if he wanted to
marry her, he'd also have to marry Velvet (cat). Their animal family
now consists of two cats and a German Shepherd dog she hopes to show

and breed. Velvet was killed; these are two other cats. Mrs. Nelms
sought me out in the attempt to find a reliable veterinarian. I'm pro~
moting the same 65-mile each way trip I take for this purpose, to use Dr.
King S. Gibson, Houston. This is a fine man, a splendid and concerned
veterinarian. He had his internship at Angell Memorial, Boston. On his
office wall there is a certificate of internship signed by several, in-
cluding the Gerald B. Schnelle you quoted in the Information Report, an
open letter to veterinarians. Dr. Gibson is extremely busy, not only
with the local trade, including a good many from Galveston, but dogs are
shipped to him from all over the United States.

Beverly Nelms and her husband are appalled at the animal situation in
Galveston. They have taken a country place "down the island", meaning

a country place of several acres, not in Galveston city, but in the county.
She tells me that they have been talKing of how to manage euthanasia

for all the strays about their place! He cannot write prescriptions for
the needed drugs (he's only an intern) and they can't take in all the
abandoned ones. They've taken one kitten to a veterinarian and paid for
euthanasia, but they also haven't much money. Anna Moss knows about all
of this and much more in relation to the Nelms. I've told Anna. I'll get
these people into contact directly with each other.

This letter has now become so long I might as well extend it to include
one further item. In response to Mrs. Bemelmans' plea, Anna Moss sent

in my mother's name and address. Mrs. Julia M. Dryden, 209 St. Patrick
Street, Lafayette, Louisiana 70501. My mother has been here since then,

 




Mrs. Stevens 9/28/64 3

on the usual kind of visit, first to my house, and the next day to

Dr. Gibson in Houston, for care of an animal. We were very involved

and busy, for reasons that aren't pertinent. She did mention, however,
that she had received a letter asking that she write letters. She said
that she can and will. She is a retired school teacher, without great n
financial resources, but with much feeling and ability. I attribute to
her my own attitudes toward animals, toward suffering. A very clear
memory of walking along a concrete walk following a heavy rain asserts
itself in my mind. A womm washed up by the rain struggling for an accus—
tomed, safe environment, and a couple of bugs similarly disadvantaged.

I don't know when or where this was, but I hear clearly, my mother's
voice admonishing the children not to step on the live creatures, to step
over them, to ease them toward the soil, or to step on them and end their
suffering. "Never ESE to suffering -- there is so much!" ”Stop any
suffering if you can!" She might not remember this, but I do.

Nevertheless, my mother is now deeply involved in the struggle of what

to do about so many unwanted animals. She retired to a place she had

partially paid for, with rentals she had built. My sister, who is a

high school teacher in Lafayette lives with her. First there was a cat

with three kittens, living in an cpen sewer. Mother cat (Patricia) came

in for food. She seemed to teach the kittens, however, to avoid humans

and human habitation. One kitten was killed in traffic. The other two

my mother and sister captured when the kittens became too weak to run.

They ran down one by wakking into traffic, stopping it. One kitten died .
about 15 minutes after they got hold of it. They've had Patricia angwthw ‘ughimg
remaining kitten since then. Both spayed, both loved. Since_m_“: Patricia
had an additional litter, all now neutered and kept. Another, and another
thrown away nearby and rescued and ke t! A whole family of cats belonging
to a neighbor, variously taken in, neutered, or placed through Dr. Gibson.
All in all, she (my mother)now has nine cats. There are also two dogs

my sister already had.

This is not a new situation to you, I'm sure. I've told my mother she
ought to resort to euthanasia in the case of most of the cats, and enjoy
the ones she really wants for pets. In case of my mother's death, she
knows that decision would rest with me, and she knows that I'd select and
euthanize. People learn slowly as a rule, and people come slowly to re~
solution. The parent-child relation is not necessarily the best for con-
vincing or for persuading. I know that Mrs. Moss and Mrs. Bemelmans
have achieved more with my mother than I had been able to accomplish in
quite some time. My mother has read a great deal of the literature in my
files for some time, and had never consented to write letters before. I've
tried to get her to write letters, but without success. Thus I am pleased

with the present situation.

\

m, c. t

1 I.

Anent this, Mrs. Dyce met my own animals. Lady, dog, Bonnie, cat, and

the youngest, Annette, also a cat. I really didn't think it was ever possible
for a cat in a research lab to escape. Mrs. Dyce said they $3. This set

me thinking far more more purposefully than I had before. Times and cir-
cumstances indicate pretty strongly the probability that my beautiful

white Persian cat, the lovely Annette, may well have been a research es-
capee. This would explain much that has been totally unexplainable other-
wise. Bonnie, twelve years old, was a stray, unwanted, uncared for

a~d in piteous circumstances -p— she snubbed Mrs. Dyce in such a completely
independent, alhof way! She is normal, however, and Annette is so abnormal.

I am convinced that Annette escaped during a holiday move from one place
to the surgical research building Mrs. Dyce visited!

 




Mrs. Stevens 9/28/6h 4

Just talked with Mrs. Morris. The little dog of this morning is indeed
dead. Closer examination revealed that this little 'puppy' had nursed
puppies, so I guess we didn't get her in time, really. Like so many,

a sweet little dog -- such a pity! I often think of the tremendous
love little animals offer, love that goes unrecognized and unwanted!

In addition, of course, there are the millions of unappreciated animals
that don't care for humans -- the wise ones.

About all my correspondence -- Mrs. Dyce's correspondence seemed to
suggest further activity here, on your part. I frankly don't see what
you can do unless you can sustain effort, until we have a local organiza-
tion to support you. This may not be the worst place in the country, but
I doubt if there are many worse. I have heard dogs barking in the surgi—
cal research building enough that I am convinced there has been no de~

barking. This probably means that researchers feel that the situation
doesn't require it.

I must close. Please do not feel any obligation about answering -- either
this or others. You have other correspondence that is more urgent, I
Know. Don't worry about me.

Sincerely,

 




 




In this issue

COCGIDIOSIS IN THE RABBIT.
EXCERPTS

LABORATORY ANIMAL TECHNIQUES,
CASE STUDIES

 

 

 

 




 

INTRODUCING: A NEW JOURNAL OF SERVICE

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

The many facets of science using laboratory animals
have become so large and complex, there is a need for
more exchange of information about the experimental
medium himself— the laboratory rat, mouse, guinea pig,
hamster, rabbit, monkey, dog, cat, and several species
of birds. The Digest will devote itself exclusively to

this ﬁeld. If you are a scientist, animal breeder or worker
in this ﬁeld and would like to receive a copy without
charge four times a year, write to Wm. D. Bowie,
Editorial Board, Ralston Purina Company,

St. Louis, Missouri, 63199.

Edited by ALVIN F. MORELAND, D.V.M.

Dr. Moreland, Assistant Professor of Experimental
Medicine and Director, Animal Department, University
of Florida, Gainesville, has held the following academic
positions in laboratory animal management and
pathology and research:

Research Technical Asst., Department of Veterinary Pathology,
Un1versity of Georgia School of Veterinary Medicine

USPHS Fellow in Laboratory Animal Medicine, Bowman Gray
School of Medicine, Winston—Salem, N. C.

Assistant Professor of Experimental Pathology & Director of the
Vivarium, University of Virginia School of Medicine

Assistant Professor of Experimental Medicine and Director of
the Animal Department, University of Florida, College of
Medicine and J. Hillis Miller Health Center

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Rabbit Restraint Harness

A method for restraining rab-
bits from licking treated skin
areas, thereby allowing rela-
tively lengthy dermal
toxicity studies is described.
Details and diagrams of the
harness construction and its
use are given. (Elvin A.
Newmann: A New Method
for Restraining Rabbits for Percuta-
neous Absorptive Studies. Lab. Ani-
nal Care 13: 207, 1963.)

Rapid Method of Ectoparasite
Disinfestation in Mouse Colonies

A colony of mice was rapidly disin-
fested of Myobia by dragging them by
their tails through an insecticide liquor
containing 1 % of a non-foaming deter-

 

gent. The detergent apparently
allowed for much more thorough wet—
ting and penetration. The treatment
required about V2 minute per mouse
and was repeated one week after the
ﬁrst treatment. (N. Bateman: Mouse
News Letter No. 29, 1963, p. 17.) The
insecticide liquor consisted of 2 grams
DMC dissolved in 3 grams ethanol; 67
grams Tetmosol, and one liter of warm
tap water (plus the 1% detergent).
DMC is di(P-chloropheny1)methyl
carbinol, by Sherwin Williams, Inc.,
Cleveland, Ohio. Tetmosol is a 25%

 

EXBHll’lS

Apparatus for Continuous
Long-Term Intravenous
Infusions in Small Animals

solution of tetraethylthiuram
monosulphide, by I.C.I.
(Pharmaceuticals) Ltd.,
Wilmslow, Chesire, England.
(N. Bateman: Simultaneous
Eradication of Three Ecto-
parasite Species from a Col-
ony of Laboratory Mice. N a-
ture 191: 721-722, 1961.)

A system is described which allows
continuous intravenous infusions in
small laboratory animals. The appa-
ratus makes use of a “swivel conduit”
which allows unrestricted motion of
the animal as ﬂuid is given from a
stationary electric pump. Previous and
additional systems are discussed. (C.
Eve and S. H. Robinson: Apparatus
for Continuous Long—term Intravenous
Infusion in Small Animals. J. Lab. &
Clin. Med. 62:169-174, 1963.)

Control of Fish Diseases

Factors affecting ﬁsh metabolism and
susceptibility to diseases are discussed.
A resume’ of some of the more common
ﬁsh diseases of bacterial, viral, and
parasitic origin are discussed and rec-
ommendations for treatment are out-
lined. (S. F. Snieszko and Glenn
L. Hoffman: Control of Fish Diseases.
Lab. Animal Care 13:197, 1963.)

A Method Allowing Controlled in
viva Studies of EctOparasites

In studies evaluating systemic insec-
ticides the authors describe a “tick
chamber” fashioned from a wide mouth
40 mm screw cap spout by screening
the top and adding a metal ﬂange

 




 

EXBERPIS

CON." NU ED the tape collar was

c 0 V e r e d w i t h
branding cement and attached to the
animal by ﬁrmly pressing the gadget
against the skin until the cement
hardened. (J. R. Eppley, W. H. Hep-
perle, J. C. Trace, F. N. Hughes, and
H. W. Larson: Controlled Evaluation
of Systemic Insecticides in the Dog.
Small Animal Clinician 3:394, 1963.)

covered with ad-
hesive tape. The
ventral. surface of

 

A Strain of Anophthalmic Mice

Genetics of a strain of mice which is
88.3 per cent completely eyeless is
discussed. The disorder apparently
stems during embryogenesis from the
inability of the optic vesicle to form a
competent optic cup. (Sydney L. Beck:
The Anophthalmic Mutant of the
Mouse. J. Heredity 54:39, 1963.)

Pathologic Changes in the Senile Rat

A discussion of diseases of the rat,
particularly dealing with pathological
changes in the older animals is pre-
sented. It is pointed out that old rats
are prone to suppurative infections,
particularly of the lungs, middle ear,

brain, and genito-urinary tract. In or-
der of most frequent appearance the
diseases are the chronic inﬂammatory
lung lesion, the chronic kidney lesion,
and tumors, fibro-adenoma of the
breast, lymphomatous tumors, inter-
stitial cell tumors of the testis, pitui-
tary adenomas, medullary adenomas
of the adrenal, and occasional tumors
at other sites.

The conditions are discussed individu-
ally in detail and abundantly illus-
trated photographically. A good bibli-
ography on rat diseases is included.

The paper was presented at a sympo-
sium organized by the Laboratory
Animals Centre, at the Royal Veter-
inary College, London, on April 16,
1959. [P. N. MaGee: Pathological
Changes in Old rats in Relation to
Chronic Toxicity Tests. Lab. Animals
Centre Collected Papers 8: 59-68, 1959.]
Publishers Address: L. A. C., M. R. C.
Laboratories, Woodmansterne Road,
Carshalton, Surrey, England.

Achievements of Selective Breeding

A practical discussion of selective
breeding answering three questions:
(1) What sorts of characteristics can
be changed by selective breeding?
Answer: Almost everything which has
been tried involving anatomic and
physiologic characteristics. (2) How
far can it be expected to progress?
Answer: For most characters about
one third of the superiority of selected
parents can be recovered in progress.
(3) For how many generations can the
response be expected to last? Answer:
At least 20-30 generations.

 

 

 




 

//////////

///////

//

//ﬂ//’/////

‘v
[5%
I

WWI”

//

E
H‘

_—_/

m;/////l//

I//g\K

 

 

'//////l//’/

“l“
‘\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\l\\\llllillllllllllllilllllIllllllllllllllllllll'"“"Im'm“

 

 

This drawing which has solved the problem
of restraining anesthetized dogs during
experimental surgery for the Veterans Ad-
ministration Hospital, Perry Point, Maryland,
was submitted by Mary B. Cahill, R. N. It is
the Velcro® Restraint Strap available
through A. S. Aloe—and possibly other
sources. Miss Cahill has taken the Purina
Animal Care Course described on page 15.

Work was cited utilizing fruit ﬂies,
mice, and rats. [D. S. Falconer: The
Achievements of Selective Breeding.
Lab Animals Centre Collected Papers
8:35—39, 1959.]

Experimentally Induced Polycystic
Renal Disease

Editors Note: Frequently personnel in
laboratory animal medicine are ques-
tioned about availability of animal models
for study of speciﬁc disease entities.
Methods for production of lesions are
also frequently desired. The following is
presented as such a case:

A lesion morphologically similar to

 

human polycystic renal disease was
produced in Sprague-Dawley rats by
prolonged feeding of diphenylamine.

Microscopic structural characteristics
were presented. Glomerular ﬁltration
rate decreased and susceptibility to
pyelonephritis was greatly increased.
[8. W. Kime, Jr., J. J. McNamara,
S. Luse, S. Farmer, C. Silbert and
N. S. Bricker: Experimental Polycystic
Renal Disease in Rats. J. Lab. & Clin.
Med. 60: 64-78, 1962.]

Convenient, Inexpensive Mouse
or Rat Restraint Device

The common Erlenmeyer ﬂask is de-
scribed as a convenient holder when
I /V, I /P, rectal or vaginal procedures
are to be performed on mice or rats.
The animal is placed in the ﬂask head
ﬁrst and motion controlled by holding
the tail in one hand and pressing the
rear of the animal against the lip— of
the ﬂask. The other hand is free for
carrying out the procedure. The tail

will!!!“

      
     

    
 

 

l
l"
~

‘

 

 

 

can be immobilized for vein puncture
by use of a notched cork in the mouth
of the ﬂask. [F. M. Ganis: Convenient
Mouse and Rat Holder for Use in
Various Laboratory Procedures. J. Lab.
& Clin. Med. 60:354-356, 1962.]

 




 

 

Most of the methods currently em-
ployed in bleeding rabbits have limita-
tions. Those requiring anesthesia in-
volve an unwanted risk and others
produce scarring, give poor yields, or
are beset with clotting difﬁculties when
large quantities or repeated samplings
are needed.

It is difﬁcult to establish the origin
of laboratory techniques because they
have been handed down from labora—
tory to laboratory: However, the
methods cited below have proven to
be useful and produce minimal risk
to the animal. These methods will
yield relatively large quantities of
blood which can be quickly collected
under clean or sterile conditions.

I. Marginal Ear Vein Techniques

a. Xylol, petrolatum, incision method.
This technique is painless and can be
performed on the unanesthetized ani-
mal restrained in the usual rabbit re-
straint box. Moisten the ear with
alcohol and shave the hair covering
the marginal ear vein area to the
border of the ear. Expose a length of
vein 3-4 cm long. Stroke the area briskly
8 or 10 times with a sponge saturated
in xylol. Remove the xylol with a dry
sponge and cover the area from vein
to ear margin with petrolatum. Use
a #11 surgical knife blade and make
a 2 mm longitudinal incision into the
ve1n. Compress the vein proximal to

    

BLOOD COLLECTION
FROM THE LABORATORY RABBIT

the incision between the thumb and
index ﬁnger.

Blood will well up into the incision
and quickly ﬂow across the petrolatum
into the test tube which is held at the
ear margin. The petrolatum prevents
the blood from contacting the hair
stubble and the rapid run-off prevents
accumulation and formation of a clot
in the area. Quantities up to 50 ml.
can be obtained quickly.

When collection is complete, remove
petrolatum and fasten a dry gauze
sponge over the incision with a paper
clip for 5 to 10 minutes.

I). Warm water, incision method. Fill
an eight-ounce polyethelene bottle Wlth
moderately warm water and cap
tightly. Restrain the rabbit in a rabblt
box. Moisten ear with alcohol and
shave the area over the marginal vein
and to the margin of the ear. T’etro—
latum on the exposed surface is op-
tional. Hold the bottle of warm water
in the palm of the hand under the
rabbit’s ear with the thumb held over
the dorsum of the ear. The heat from
the water bottle dilates the vem and
maintains dilation during the collec—
tion. Make a 2 mm incision into the
vein with a #11 surgical knife blade
and collect the blood in a test tube
as it drips from the ear margin. On
completion, hemostatis is achleved b_y
fastening a dry sponge over the 1nc1-
sion with a paper clip.

 
   

 




 

    

 

Central artery of the rabbit ear following prep-
aration with xylol. Point of incision can be
seen-immediatelycephaladtothebifurcation.

ll. Central Artery Technique

a. Incision method. Restrain the rabbit
in a rabbit box. Moisten and shave
the dorsum of the ear near the tip.
Massage with a sponge moistened with
xylol and dry. Incise the artery and
hold the collection tube adjacent to
the incision. (Fig. 1) Gently thump,
tap, or stroke the artery to discourage
clotting. On completion hemostatis is
achieved with a dry sponge held in
place by a paper clip.

b. Arterial puncture and vacuum method.
A plastic device ﬁtted with a 23 gauge
needle and used with a commercial
vacuum pump was recently described.
(R. A. Hammerstrom: New Device for
Arterial Bleeding of the Rabbit. J.
Lab. & Clin. Med. 61:352-354, 1963.)
The device allows for sterile collection
into graduated centrifuge tubes.

 

   
 

“it ‘

\i \;\\\\t}§‘-.\.~.‘
\\\\\V ‘ ‘

‘

 

 

 

Procedure for terminal bleeding of the rabbit
via needle cannulation ofthe abdominal aorta.

lll. Terminal Bleeding

A quickly performed method which
gives good yield of sterile blood in-
volves needle cannulation of the ab-
dominal aorta (Fig. 2).

Anesthetize the animal with ether or
pentobarbital sodium. Incise the ab-
domen along the midline and expose
the aorta by teasing away fatty struc-
tures with gauze sponges. A short bevel
15 or 16 gauge needle which has been
bent 45 degrees, bevel up, is attached to
a 100 m1 syringe and inserted quickly.
Arterial pressure is sufﬁcient to begin
ﬁlling the syringe. Later, slight aspira-
tion must be applied. A hemostat
should be available so that the aorta
can be clamped above the puncture
site in the event of difﬁculty. A second
site can then be selected and the pro-
cedure repeated. This method pro-
vides an advantage over cardiac punc-
ture in that direct visualation is possible.




 

 

 

 

 

Eli Lilly and Company, a valued user
of Purina Laboratory Chows, serves
this growing world of 2.5 billion people,
offering “health and life insurance” in
the form of safe and effective drugs.
From Lilly research and develop-
ment have come:

. The ﬁrst commercial Insulin prep-
aration for the control of diabetes

. The ﬁrst liver extract for the con-
trol of pernicious anemia

. Procaine penicillin, which greatly
reduced the number of injections
required by patients

. The wide—spectrum antibiotic,
erythromycin

. Darvon®, a nonnarcotic analgesic
equivalent to codeine in potency

. . A newer and safer rabies vaccine

. Velban®, a drug found to be useful
against generalized Hodgkins dis-
ease and a rare cancer called
choriocarcinoma

. Oncovin®, for the treatment of
acute leukemias in children

. Plus many, many more contribu-
tions to mankind.

Millions of research animals—many
kept in peak body condition with
Purina Laboratory Chows—have aided
Lilly scientists in their persistent
search for better medicines. The
following Lilly policy reﬂects a high
standard of care for these animals:

LABORATORY ANIMAL CARE
ELI LILLY AND COMPANY

The contributions of laboratory ani-
mals to research and the necessity for
the continuing use of laboratory
animals in research, development,
control and production are accepted
facts. As individuals engaged in such

 

work employing laboratory animals,
we have a moral responsibility to pro-
vide for the animals’ comfort, health

and well—being.

Speciﬁcally, we wish to reafﬁrm the
following basic principles and policies
associated with the use of animals.

(1) Federal, state and local laws ap-
plicable to the acquisition and
retention of laboratory animals
govern the company’s procedures
in regard to such animals.

(2) Laboratory work with animals is
conducted by individuals qualiﬁed
by training and experience.

(3) Every reasonable effort is made to
provide for the animals’ health,
comfort and well-being. Animals
are provided with cages of ade-
quate size and design. Room tem-
perature, lighting, humidity and
ventilation meet accepted condi-
tions for the species.

(4) Sanitary conditions with respect
to cages, cage equipment, racks,
rooms and buildings are main-
tained.

(5) Water and food of sufﬁcient quan-
tity and proper quality to main-
tain animals in good health are
supplied.

(6) Such treatments as vaccinations,
special diets, bathing and dipping
are given to animals as required
in accordance with recognized
veterinary practices.

(7) In any surgical procedure likely
to cause greater discomfort than
the attending anesthetization, the
animal shall ﬁrst be rendered 1n-
capable of perceiving pain and be
maintained in that condition untll
the operation is ended.

  




 

These rabbits are having their
temperatures taken to check for
the presence of fever-producing
elements in a test compound.

 
 

 

Thousands of rats are used in the subacute and chronic tox- In the Lilly laboratories, isola-
icity tests that measure a compound's safety. Careful treat- tors house germfree mice used
ment is given to the rats to assure meaningful results from in gnotobiotic research on
the tests. It includes the feeding of Purina Laboratory Chow. viruses found in man.

a. Whenever anesthetization
would defeat the purpose of
the experiment, the experiment
must be approved by the senior
scientist in charge of the project
or the department head.

b. If an acute study does not re-
quire survival, the animal must
be killed in a humane manner
at the conclusion of the exper-
iment.

3‘)

The postoperation care of ani-
mals must be such as to mini-
mize discomfort during con-
valescence in accordance with
acceptable hospital practice.

of all phases of animal care and
use is a part of our research effort.
This includes the evaluation of
new methods, procedures and
equipment used in laboratory
animal work. Our aim is to
continue to improve laboratory
animal care.

Failure on the part of the indi-
vidual to follow these principles
as they apply to his responsi-
bilities, mishandling of animals,
neglect or other evidence of lack
of regard for the animals’ welfare
and comfort will not be tolerated.
Individuals guilty of such prac-
tices are subject to dismissal.

(8) All animals receive daily atten-

tion, seven days per week. I have read the above principles of
laboratory animal care and under-
stand them as they apply to my job

responsibilities.

(9) As in any ﬁeld, progress is de-
pendent on the acquisition and
application of further knowledge
and the adoption of improved
equipment and procedures. To
accomplish this, a program of con- Signed
tinuous study and investigation

 

(Eli Lilly employee)

 




 

l0

CASE REPORT

COCCIDIOSIS IN THE RABBIT

C. Max Lang, D.V.M.* & Bill C. Bullock, D.V.M.*

Coccidiosis is one of the more common
and destructive parasitic diseases of
laboratory rabbits. This disease in rab-
bits is caused by protozoan parasites
of the genus Eimeria. Five different
species have been identiﬁed in labora-
tory rabbits. Four species affect the
intestine and one species affects the
liver. Food and water contaminated
with oocysts and animals licking con-
taminated fur are the usual means
of spreading coccidiosis. Coprohagy
(ingestion of feces) also offers a means
of reinfestation.

Hepatic Coccidiosis

Hepatic coccidiosis is due to infection
with Eimeria stiedae. The oocysts of
this parasite are ovoidal or ellipsoidal
and measure 37.5 i. by 21.5 p. The
portion of the life cycle within the
rabbit occurs in the epithelial (lining)
cells of the bile ducts and the develop-
mental cycle is completed in approxi-
mately 18 days.

The signs of the disease are primarily
those due to interference with liver
function. The disease is most common
in animals 5 weeks to 3 months of
age. Death loss reaches a peak at 4-6
weeks after infection.

Affected rabbits have large livers with
white to yellowish nodules measuring
from a few mm. to 1 cm. in diameter
(Fig. 1). Yellowing of skin and whites
of eyes is nearly always present if
hepatic coccidiosis is the cause of
death. The functional liver tissue is
reduced to narrow strips between nod-
ules. The common bile duct may be
enlarged to as much as 0.5 cm. in
diameter. The spleen is enlarged and
ﬁrm and one sees varying amounts of
ﬂuid in the abdominal cavity.

The nodules are composed almost en-
tirely of oocysts. The reduction in size
of the functional liver tissue is prob-
ably due to pressure from the pro-
liferating bile ducts. Functional liver
tissue cells do not regenerate until the
infection has cleared. The healing proc-
ess may be difﬁcult to distinguish from
true cirrhosis but the net result is a
ﬁne scarring or a normal appearing
liver.4

Obviously, an ill animal is unsuitable
for experimentation and even a re-
covered rabbit should not be used for
experimental cirrhosis studies. The suc-
cinic dehydogenase activity of the liver
may vary considerably (high in initial
stages; low later5) and the affected
rabbit should not be used if this ac-
tivity is to be measured. The serum
beta—and gamma globulins, and the
beta-lipoprotein is increased while the
alpha—lipoprotein is decreased.1

The only acceptable means of positive
diagnosis is to demonstrate the agent
in the lesion.

Succinylsulfathiozole, sulfamerazine,
or sulfamethazine (0.5% in feed) and
sulfaquinoxaline (0.03% in feed or
water) have been used for treatment.
Only sulfaquinoxaline in water 1s
claimed to prevent liver lesions in ex-
perimental infections.2 Nitrofurozone
and furozolidone combinations have
been used but usually are less effec-
tive. Reinfection is possible following
recovery.

Intestinal Coccidiosis

Intestinal coccidiosis in the rabbit may
be caused by Eimeria perforans, E.
magna, E. irresidua, or E. media. The
status of E. neoleporis and E. coeczola

*Fellow in Laboratory Animal Medicine, Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Wake Forest College.

Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

 

 

 




 

is uncertain with respect to this dis-
ease but they are not known to be
important parasites of domestic rab-
bits in the United States.

Eimeria perforans is probably the most
common and the least pathogenic of
the intestinal coccidia. The oocysts
are ellipsoidal and measure 25.5 g by
15.5 p. The parasite develops within
the epithelial cells of the intestine and
the disease usually runs its course,
after a single exposure, in 5 days.
Heavy infections may cause the duo-
denum to be enlarged, edematous, and
sometimes chalky white. The jejunum
and ileum may contain white spots
and streaks and there may be small
bloody spots in the cecum.

Eimeria magna is one of the most
pathogenic species. The parasite de-
velops in the epithelial cells of the
duodenum and ileum. After a single
exposure the disease runs its course
in 7 days. The oocyst is ovoidal and
measures 35;; by 24/4. Infection with
this protozoan parasite may cause
epithelial sloughing and may also cause
much mucous to be passed in the feces.

Eimeria media is moderately patho-
genic and develops in the epithelial
cells throughout the small intestines
of rabbits. The life cycle is completed
in 6 days. The oocysts are ovoidal and
measure 31.2,; by 28.51. The patho-
logic changes are similar to those
caused by E. perforans.

Eimeria irresidua approaches E. magna
in ability to cause disease and develops
in the epithelial cells of the lower duo-
denum and ileum and completes its
life cycle in 9 to 10 days. The oocysts

are ovoidal and measure 38.3” by
25.6”.

Diagnosis and treatment is the same
as for E. stiedae. The oocysts can be
Sporulated by mixing the feces with
2-5% potassium dichromate solution,
placing the mixture in a thin layer

Liver from rabbits dead from infection with
Eimeria stiedae. The nodules represent mas-
sive infestations of biliary ducts with the para-
sites. A. Severe infestation. B. Mild infestation.

in a petri dish and allowing to stand
for the sporulation time.

Sporulation time

E. stiedae 72 hours
E. perforans 2 days
E. magna 2-3 days
E. media 2 days

For a comparison of the oocysts see
Kessel and J ankieowicz.3

 

BIBLIOGRAPHY

. Dunlap, J. S., Dickson, W. M., and Johnson, V. L.:
Ionotographic Studies of Rabbits Infected with
Eimeria stiedae. Amer. J. Vet. Res. 20: 589-591,
1959.

H

2. Hagan, K. W., J r.: Hepatic Coccidiosis in Domestic
Rabbits Treated with 2 Nitrofuran Compounds
and Sulfaquinoxaline. J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc.
138: 99-100, 1961.

3. Kessel, J. F. and Jankieowicz, H. A.: Species
Diﬁerentiation of the Coccidia of Rabbits Based
on a Study of Oocysts. Amer. J. qu. 14: 304-324,
1931.

uh

. Smetana, Hans: Coccidiosis of the Liver in Rabbits
I. Arch. Path. 15: 175-192, II. Ibid.: 330-339 and
III Ibid.: 516-536, 1933.

. Smith, B. F. and McShan, W. H.: The Effect of
the Protozoan Parasite, Eimeria stiedae. on the

Succinic Dehydrogenase activity of Liver Tissue of
Rabbits. Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 52: 496-500, 1949.

U!

 

 

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
   
  
  
   
     
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

 




 

CONVENTIONAL DIET PUR-PAK
gram sample) gram sample)

mi»>§.w> 44"

 

 




 

    

 

Now you can feed experimental rats, mice and hamsters
special Purina diets with speciﬁc pathogens removed to
make them almost completely free of harmful organisms.

There are two levels of microorganism control to meet
the needs of your breeding or research plans. They are:

Commercially Sterile Pur-Pak—Laboratory tested to
insure the ration is free of all bacteria, except gram

OW—Purl “3 Pur- Pak

positive spore-forming bacilli and will not contain more
than 100 microorganisms per gram.

Pasteurized Pur-Pak—Processed under sufﬁcient pres-
sure, time and temperature to insure that the ﬁnal
product is free of such undesirable microorganisms as
Salmonella, PPLO, Pseudomonas and others.

A whole new plant has been built by Ralston Purina
Company to produce these “clean” rations, which are
ﬁrst pressure and heat processed to reduce organisms
and then packed in sterile polyethylene bags within a
sterile room.

Whether you are an experimenter or a breeder of
laboratory animals, Pur-Pak offers several advantages.
Yet the cost is so low as to be practical for almost every
scientist or breeder.

Why feed Pu r-Pak 7

Reduces pathogen introduction to colony
0 Completely free of estrogens and antibiotics
0 Employs latest knowledge of laboratory animal
nutrition
0 Increases accuracy of experimental results
0 Improves quality of animals for sale
For further information on Pur—Pak diets and prices,
call your Purina dealer or salesman (usually listed
under “Feed Retail” in your Yellow Pages). Or write
Mr. H. A. Graﬁ, Ralston Purina Company, Checker-
board Square, St. Louis, Missouri 63199.




Manufacturing controls make PUR-PAK
different than any other animal diet

Purina Pur-Pak is not a super-heated biscuit or pellet.
It’s an entirely different diet made with specially-
designed equipment which completely blends the ingre-
dients, then applies heat and pressure to reduce the
microorganism count and eliminate almost all bacteria.

Pur-Pak then is pressed into rounded Checker form, the
right size to ﬁt into most rat and mouse feeders.

From the air-tight pasteurizing chamber, Pur-Pak is
advanced to the sterile packaging room, operated by a
man in an air-tight, sterile suit.

The product is packed in a sterilized polyethylene bag
and double heat sealed to prevent contamination. Regu-
lar laboratory tests are conducted on commercially
sterile Pur-Pak to control bacteria count below 100 per
gram of ﬁnished product.

Throughout the process the potency of vitamins and
all other nutrients is maintained at optimal levels.
Feeding tests in our laboratory have shown excellent
reproduction, health and growth of rats and mice fed
Purina Pur-Pak and water.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

Progressive laboratory animal care-
takers and technicians (and a good
many scientists, too) have shown their
interest in improving the management
of animals under their control. Well
over 2,500 have enrolled in the Purina
Laboratory Animal Care Course, and
1,377 had graduated up to September 1.

Graduates are caring for laboratory
animals in almost every state and prov-
ince in the United States and Canada.
Others live in Mexico, Switzerland,
Japan, England, Holland, Puerto Rico,
Malaya, Venezuela, Colombia and the
Canal Zone.

The course was designed by Purina
laboratory animal scientists, working
with several prominent animal super-
visors and experimenters. It is divided
into ﬁve sections or “lessons” covering
fundamental knowledge of laboratory
animal care, cages and equipment, dis-
ease prevention and control, experi—
mental principles and related subjects.

A charge of $5 is made at the beginning
of the course, and a plaque and desk

Patricia Woehr is awarded a Graduation Certificate by Purina
salesman A. E. Williams. Patricia worked for Smith, Kline & French
Laboratories in Philadelphia. She now is Mrs. Cupitt, housewife.
With her at this proud moment is Vincent DiFiglia, head of the

Animal Care Unit at‘SKI&F.

1377 GRADUATE FROM
PURINA LAB CARE COURSE

 

set are awarded to graduates who ﬁnish
the course and pass the quizzes at the
end of each lesson.

Both the lessons and the quizzes are
written in easy-to-understand language
and the subject matter purposely is
kept simple enough so caretakers with
any level of education can grasp it.

In a great many instances caretakers
and scientists take the courses on their
own and study them at night or during
slack periods during the work day.
In other cases, all the animal care-
takers and technicians in an institu-
tion have enrolled together and are
allowed time for instruction and study
in regular hour-long classes. Some local
Laboratory Animal Care chapters have
taken the courses together at their
regular meetings.

If you are interested in the course, either
as an individual or for your staﬁ or ACP
chapters, write to Educational Depart-
ment, Section 1,, Ralston Purina Com-
pany, Checkerboard Square, St. Louis,
Missouri, 63199.

This Manual for Laboratory
Animal Care is the book for
all who enter the course
and becomes their perma-
nent reference manual.

 
 

15

 




RATS and HAMSTERS

19 PURINA DIETS

:33al' "Sman Who Will keep you supplied
h fresh Chews on a Schedule

to ﬁt your needs. You 11

ﬁnd your dealer

‘d rider “Feed Retail” 1n your

W Pages, 01' wrlte to St Louis

Pur-Pak Lab Chow—commercially sterile diet
Laboratory Chow—complete ration, constant formula
Labena—complete ration, lower cost

 

Pur-Pak Lab Chow—for growing and maintenance
Pur-Pak Mouse Breeder Chow—for breeder colonies
Mouse Breeder Chow—for breeder colonies
Laboratory Chow—for growing and maintenance
Labena—lower cost growing and maintenance ration

 

DOGS

Canine Checkers—complete diet in Checker form
Dog Chow Meal—complete diet in meal form
Dog Chow—complete diet, extruded form

 

CATS

Purina Cat Chow—dry diet, extruded form

 

RABBITS

Rabbit Chow—all-in-one diet in Checker form

 

GUINEA PIGS

Guinea Pig Chow

 

MONKEYS

Monkey Chow—complete diet in extruded form

 

CHICKENS

Startena. Growena. Layena and Breeder Layena

 

GAME BIRDS

 

Game Bird Startena. Growena. Breeder Chow

 




 

W 4......“

THE. ANN ARBQRNP“

. {jg-xx .1.
‘ '-’;::<J>%A:
'l- ’

U—M Researchers Seek Drugs ‘
To Combat Malaria’s Spread

. The control of, malaria h a s America to Africa and Asia, and‘troops during World War II.
been set back 25 years in re- particularly threatens Malaya But when the mosquito-trans-
cent months because drugs used and Vietnam, Burckhalter says. mitted disease hit a Cambodian
to fight the disease are no The U. S. Armed Forces are village last year, more than
longer effective against its dead- alarmed over- the immediate one-third of the Victims ’did
liest form, acc0rding to Prof. threat this poses to military op- not respond to any of th e s e
_ Joseph H. Burckhalter of the erat’ion in Southeast Asia. drugs Burckhalter r e p o r t‘ is.
University’s College of Pharm— Chloroquine, amodiaquine, and “Three years ago it is almost
acy. . primaquine are, the three most certain that all would have re-
_ Burckhalter, who invented commonly used drugs for treat- sponded. . .
amodiaquine .__. one of the major ing malaria in recent years, ac- When other medications prover. .23-
anti-malarial drugs, now heads cording to the UM research ineffective, p h y s i c i a n s are
a research team working on the chemist. They replaced the forced to resort to the use of
development of two new com- widespread use of atabrine for q u i n i n e, the classical “cure”
pounds which “show promise” which was abandoned ?5. years
for treating victims of fatal ma-’ ago because of Its t‘oxmty, he\ j

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' laria infections. Warning Given says.

The control of malaria by The tWO new U-M compounds

y . - . .. - . ' '° are being tested on mice at the
. umniilllcilliﬁze ‘75,:er :21; ”in? Sing OHIHSeCthldCS University of Miami Medical
Burckhalter says ’ . . School. Further testing on ducks
'. Dr. Otto K. Engelke, director and chicks is due to begin soon,
, lle “01395 that 5.11109 then, “741“ of the City-County Health De- Burckhal'ter says.

'] tam. (madly strains 0f the 111' partment, has issued a warning The U-M research is s p on-
fectious‘ blood disease have be- about the improper 01‘ careless sored by a grant from the U. S.
come .reSIStam to the drugs use Of organic phosphate insec- Army Medical Research and

used to combat them 11p to now. ticides containing malathion and Development Command, ‘
- n

 

 

 

' In only three . years this resis- arathi on
ch ‘tance has spread from S o u/f.h’p .

 

. Organic phosphate insecticides . . . 11-11
on .. // are highly toxic when absorbed '

:-

 

into the system through 1: h e
mouth, the lungs or the skin,
often causing death within a few
hours, Dr. Engelke pointed out. ‘
tents The health director urged per-
is in sons using organic phosphates
oral to take the following precau-
was tions: wear protective clothing
. including goggles and respira- S
nics, tors at all times when handling
the or using the insecticides, avoid
iety inhalation or skin contact, avoid
Re- eating or smoking while work-
on ing, change work clothing, in-
cluding underclothing daily, and
is to bathe thoroughly.
nate- Insecticide containers should
Len— be destroyed in the following
manner: rinse metal containers 3
Len- twice, crush and bury them.
apart- Dr. Engelke urged anyone ex-
e the posed to the highly toxic in-
urses, secticides to seek immediate
labor medical attention. There is now
oper. a specific antidote for certain
volun— organic phosphate poisonings,‘ he
said. . f
5 per He said that most of the
m all products on the market a r e
Iedical safe to use if close attention is
gever, paid to the instructions and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d the safety warnings.
ity to,._ "" \

 

 

 

 

 




Baltimore Scientist

To Study Penguins

BALTIMORE, June 21 (AP)
Picture this: A scientist lines
up 150 penguins who have on
tiny shoulder holsters and
says, “all right, you guys—get
lostf’

This surrealistic sequence
is not a dream but a scientific
project of Dr. Richard L. Pen-
ney, a 28-year-old zoologist
from the Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity School of Hygie ne
and Public Health.

He and three coworkers are
flying to Antarctica this sum-
mer to see what happens
when the Adelie penguins get
lost

“We’re interested in deter-
mining if these penguins,
taken from their home areas,
will orient themselves and fol-
]ow a meaningful pattern
when they strike off across
the featureless white waste-
land,” explains Dr. Penney.

Earlier studies indicate na-

 

*' SPECIAL PREVIEW 101111111?
1 AT 11:30 9.111. or A
RECENTLY nomnmn
muun unnnn 111mm:

cumsmmatsm WILLIAM HOLDEN
ALEC GUINNESS JACK HAWKINS
“IE BlliIIGB
3! IN!!! [WM

isuspresmummu
—— TEcHMCOLon°-GINEMASGOPE

1mg -lux

 

 

 

 

 

1U‘QHW
,‘Z Kr») is ‘

\{7 "A 'l 'i f5 ‘1'

“",’r z _‘

ture has given the penguin .
the bility to find his way i"
home to his rookery. Dr. Pen- .
ney wants to know how and -'

\Nhy.

birds at McMurdo Sound on
Antarctica, 2400 miles from
their rookery, and three pen-
guins made it home in eight
months averaging eight miles
a day. They don’t travel at
night.

Now the Antarctic Resear'h
Program of the National
S c i e n c- e Foundation has
granted $46,000 to help Dr.
Penney conduct the experi-
ments.

 

 

 

In 1959 he released five '

He will gather groups of}

penguins "from several rook-‘1
eries, take them far from
home and drop them off. Then
he will follow the birds from
an airplane via signals from“i
small radio transmittersI
strapped in a harness under
the penguins" flippers.
Preliminary work indicates
the penguin has some sort of
a biological clock mechanism.
Using the position of the sun,
he can find his way to his
rookery if it is to his nort11-'
But if the penguin is 105'.
southeast or southwest of his
rookery, the penguin appxr-
ently goes along a path par?
allel to a north- south line

 

 

 

drawn through his rookery,
finally reaching the open sea I

of

Se

Sf
21 (
0qu
11nd ,
oak ‘
the ‘

l
wsout
wl

 




E.G.REUTER,M.D.
ROENTGENOLOGIST

612 - 614 MEDICAL ARTS BUILDING»
SAN ANTONIO. TEXAS

September 11, 1964

Miee Christine Stevene,

ooietv For AnimeI Frote ctive Levieleti
745 Fifth evenue
New York 22, New York

Deer wedam
Thenkyou for your 1e tter canoe arming

matters in Detroit.

itn reEere ence to the Medicel Tribune, all I can
is that I heve reed the b ﬂin3 fairly conecient
1:115 1.8 I: I 1’13er 33 V53 3:“ ; i; I: I (“33.10 h {134:1 C]. e c1 a {‘3
thev he e :5 Lee or Dueliehed. enould
we? 3e hEIEI I; m:;.e +5 them to -- 1 out,
1x301: e T jg” Aigﬁv e -3 ﬁg. j 'ni:?3 ‘:I _;‘_'I Ijhe
f: 1 (.1; WC) I I 3 1 ﬂ I

'11} ‘ 1::

1/“

{II III 1.; I’ 1

I“ ‘1 1161 C: I1 {:1 7,52%

 




H. DORIS RALL
RAKY RANCH
2940 TALMADGE ROAD
TOLEDO, OHIO 43606

September 12, 1954

Ch1istine Stevens

Society for Animal Brotective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue

iew York 22, ﬂew York

Dea1 hrs. Stevens:

I sppreciete very mu ch your efforts in informing the publiﬁ
about the case of retrolmen nooley rescugng the research dog at
Wayne State University with glist1ibution of the story and the
fine pictuie to newspapers.
the copies you or”“r ded to to the Editor of the
Blade, James C. echonsld,o eAugust Q.1st, along with
his cooperation b; giving then space in his paper.

I have been wenti11g you holnuwvtlmt to date the article and
picture heVe not e.pp es red in the Toledo Blade,

thoughtful of you to tell 3 a few days ago thst the Wayne
University '9 license to use animals for experimental
has been temporarily suspended on cruelty charges by
of Michigan. I believe it would be useless to send
inforﬁt Mt on to the ’1“oledo Blade Editor since he ignored
write-up and picture of the pstrolmsn' s fannily aith the

dog previously.

I
S
P
t
1,
b.

in the future you would lilw to send any cruelty information
the newspapers of Bt. Joseph Missouri, I suggest you send
to :y nephew wl1o is publisher of pupers the mr . he can be
reached by addressing your” ail to L1. David B. Bradley
The hers Corporation, St. Joseph, hi souri. You ﬁght tell him
I suggested him for cooperation because he 1 1e animals.

I am sure you fine work for the protection of animals is
making inroads to help this humanitarian cause. 1 admire

your work very much.

Sincerely,

 




 

m,*‘<"m

 

' ‘4” WW 0

r
I

-__1. (D H U:

 

 

 

V ic i s m of this

Dean Sayre’s SermonE
Dean Sayre’s f‘plague} o’

,bOth your houses” p'ro-

nouncement of this past
Sunday can, it seems to me,

be explained in only one wayi
‘ He decided politics was in

the news and so he’d put
himself there too. And lie
couples the pronouncement

, with the message that “few,
eyes in this Nation are lifted.”
to a nobler purpose than.

selfish gain.”

But to. What end Lwas theif
. D'e'an"Speakin*g? Does hell]
suggest that there should bet'ﬁ
an emergency third conven-
tion, which might possible}.

nominate t h e (apparently)
only man who does lift his
eyes above “selfish gain”—

one Dean Sayre? He speaks

of 3i“tinsel baubles.” Does he
mean civil rights? Does he
mean the issue of; the peace

: of the world? And just what.
. is selfish gain anyway?

llf he was really worried

about the choice the elector-
ate was to have, 'why didn’t .-

“sieen conditions g e n e rally
g’throughout the - Nation that
, are , appalling beyond belief.-

. and a companion hill intro-
duced-by Mr. Pepper /of Flor-

are 'L‘i‘eceiving $450 million of?
the taXpayers money. The’Rain-

  
 

sent: to a dairy barn in upstate
New York to recover. I have
seen animals that were to haVe
been fed" intravenously dead
in their cages because no at-
tendant was on duty to refill
the feeding bottles. I have

The/Humane Society of the
'Unlted States urges support
for HR. 4856, the Randall Bill

 

 

 

idaa. These bills, both presently
4: before. Congress, place the re-
2,.“861101‘1'Slbllity for. animal" eare

end ~ treatment squarely where J‘
115.,rbélongs—on the institutions.
throughout this country which I

dall;_Bi-ll would require that
Lémmals usedv'for research be
Vail?” proper care-— and atten-
ﬁzlora‘or Federal grants to ef-
Hen gins. "institutions. woul . ‘

halted. ‘ ' . d be

f'li’hewtaxpaying public should
lieimade/aware that research
gday 1s.~b1ig business. A busi-
. .ss too large to be policed

he Speak out earlier? A crit-"ki~

becomes childish unless the

 

 

 

 

 

critic has another choice to
offern—and unless the critic is
Willing to come out from
under the sound of his ca-

' thedral bells and the medieval

coolness of [the cathedral’s
halls and join the dust and

. heatw of working with/ the
body politic —-the electorate _
'--rather¢than the chosen ef- ’
fete of his Congregation.
.: This . is, often the effect of

the Cloister, especially one
that happens to
‘ suppertedp

   
   

   

_, I ._M ,7“

. 4 ' ‘
.. i“ .1 ' 1

“A

u

. Q» .
MAn mal Welfare

1 7,- _I write" about the article of

Sept. 6 entitled “Laboratory

Animal Care Study Set Up.”
=-a.flthis1~v-sarticle* est ate s “ that
-,~;~;WARDS (Welfare of Animals '
' used '- in? Research for Drugs

and Surgery) has granted
$10,000 to Howard University
to study, “not only humane
treatment of laboratory ani-
mals but. its value to re-

. search.” " ,

Without a doubt such a
study should be made; it may
even prove to be useful. The
very fact, however, that this
grant was made by a chari-

"tably supported organization

emphasizes the shocking con-
ditions that exist in research
institutions today.

In the last five years Na-
tiOnial Institutes of Health

7 grants 'to institutions for re-

search purposes ”have totaled
‘$l,51‘2,000,000. Howard Univer4

sity. alone has been granted

$2,083,000.
This letter is by no means

to be construed as criticism

of . Howard University. This
letter‘is, however, to point ‘out

‘ to your , readers that while
-*_:sta’gg’ering amounts of money

are being spent for research,
a tax-exempt, philanthropic or-
ganization feels, compelled to

grant $10,000 to study the hu-

mane treatment of animals

9used for research purposes.
; When we consider that more
‘ than ‘_ 300,000,000 vertebrate

"animals, are being used annu-

' .ially in this country for re-
search purposes (more, by the

«Way; than are slaughtered for

- food consumption) does not
“this grant seem pitifully inade-
'*‘qu*ate? ’ ,
My duties have taken me
into hospitals and laboratories
airtimecoast to coast. I have

iz-‘j-{seen' animals of all species
glett without food and water
goveri a weekend. I have seen

"animals that were subjected

to... surgery in some of New

1 York City’s leading hospitals

 

      
     
 
   

magnitude. ‘

be very well-f

.1. , any philanthropic or 'charitaé
af‘Wg‘amzation. ; f f
'7. gRﬁNK J.’ McMAH-ON,‘
1 rep or, Field Service, I-I ,

‘ «quélety of the United 3.3%?

(is:
l: 2'
11;. y 2' -n n
\‘. " . , ~ , o ’-
-' '1 ’u, ,u 1, '
' *1 ',r 4 .
‘ ‘ 3.. . . ‘

 

 

ﬁHMmAD-I'AA

H.
5.4

 

 

 




$952193”:
. such-:15

low worker; knowing that he
did all he could to help his
partner - saving him from burn,-
ing alive; not once thinking of
the danger to himself My hat
is off to you, Golder. we need
more like you in Alpena
PROUD TO BE A FRIEND
Of William Golder

LETTERS URGED

So you believe in animal experi-
mentation. So do I. I believe in
freedom. So do you. But no think
ing person would think of trying to
have our freedom without our po—
licemen: our laws, Do you know
what goes on because Washington
has no laws, no regulations, re-
garding animal experimentation“?

A. person can set himself up
without any proper background or
training and cut. into unanesthetiz-
ed animals in the name of sci-
ence. And the animals can be in
the most unspeakable agony and
also be of no further use to him
(or her) and he does not have to
put them out of such agony. And
despite this, this person does not
even have to keep records of his
“experiment.”

This can, and does, happen be-
cause we have no laWs requiring
licensing, requiring regulations, or
inspections.

There is a law now in Congress
(HR4856) and in committee. This
will regulate animal experimenter
tion, just as police law regulates
our every day life in other ways.
The basic 6 points of this law are
listed below. They are practical
and reasonable. Write Rep. Ken-
neth Roberw, Head of the com-
mittee for Bill 1434856 today, urg-
ing that this bill be passed this
session.

Do you know that because we
have no laws, animals can be put

in wire cages just then size and

s to the Editor

never be permitted to get out-—
even when very young. Their toe-
nails grow around the wires and
imprison them further.

Because we have no laws, do

you know that these same impris-
oned animals can and have been
a. source of entertainment for the
caretaker’s children and friends,
tormenting these animals who can
not get away from them or protect
themselves in any way.

Do you know that an animal can
be dipped in scalding water with-
out any anesthesia and left to die
without treatment of any sort—in
awful agony? And this can be
done today in every experimental
place in the whole country.

And every experiment I tell you
about has been done and was ful-
ly documented so we can prove it
did. happen.

At least 24 University Presidents
and 46 Professors of Medicine and
Surgery—people who see what
goes on, educated people who be-
lieve in advancements for science,
are on record for the animal ex»
perimentation control of Bill HR
4856. Priests and Ministers de-
plore what is permitted to go on
in laboratories.

MARY PRICE JACKSON
107 Crofut
Pittsiield, Mass.

 

Some Library

LONDON (UPI) - Leo Abse,
Labor member of Parliament,
claimed Wednesday night that

there is a “semi-secret” cup-
board at the House of Com-
mons were MP’s can obtain
erotic books. He said the cup-
board contained such contro-
versial books as Kinsey’s on
sexual behavior, Lolita, Tropic
of Cancer, and the Kamasutra.

 




3‘ \Q SN?

m§£§§§ aggg

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

————'

Vol. 3. No. 2

I

.' ' ;.; -.-.' nun-N. ................ s ''''''' >

UN AIDS efforts to

examines a syringe used in Ethiopian vaccination program.

. Copyright 1961.
Schermg Corporation. ©

The Newspaper of the Veterinary Profession

All rights reserved.

Published monthly as a service to the veterinary profession by
Veterinary Dispatch Publishing Co. Inc. for the Schering Corp.

Nomenclature

0i Leukemias
Is Clarified

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

CHICAGO—More rapid prog-
ress toward conquest of the leu—
kemias might be made if the no-
menclature used for diseases of
the blood and blood-forming 0r—
gans were better understood.

Dr. Robert G. Shirmer, director
of the small-animal clinic at
Michigan State University, ex-
pressed this view in a paper pre~
sented before the recent annual
meeting here of the Illinois Vet—
erinary Medical Association.

The need to clarify the termin-
ology has become especially
urgent since veterinarians are
being called upon to treat a
growing number of pets afflicted
with blood ailments, Dr. Shirmer
declared. He cited several pos—

 

sible explanations for the rise in
incidence of these diseases.

Pet Owners Interested

 

 

African Livestock Diseases
Threaten Invasion of the U. S.

Special to Veterinary Dispatch e

WASHINGTON —-— American
veterinarians face the possibili-
ty of a serious invasion of large
animal diseases from Africa forl
which there are few vaccines

mead few effective controls with

biologics.

This warning came in a report
from Col. Fred D. Maurer, vet-
erinarian at the Armed Forces
Institute of Pathology here, who
characterized a group of emerg-
ing African viral diseases as be-
ing potentially devastating to
U. S. food. producing livestock.

Increased travel and trade be-
tween the U. S. and the once
dark continent pose a peril that
these “exotic” animal diseases
may soon gain a foothold in this
country, he said, unless effective
action is taken to stamp them

at where they exist abroad.
Blue Tongue Disease

Discussing the problem here,
during the recent annual lecture
meeting of the Institute, Col.
Maurer reported that, to date,
only one of the exotic African
diseases of animals has reached
these shoresablue tongue dis—
ease of sheep.

Er-..«<ootic in South Africa be—
file 1800. blue tongue turned up
ll’. southwestern U. S. in 1947—48.
It was not diagnosed until 1952,
inn-in g been identified in-
lilLlll}' :15 “sore muzzle.” Today,

confirmed diagnosis of blue
tongue has been made in 13
\Vestel‘ll states. Col. Maurer said.

N.»- dollar loss value has as yet

 

Editor ’3 Note

The product statement of
directions inserted in the cur-
rent issue of VETERINARY
DISPATCH is made in com-
pliance with recent rulings
of the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration.

Pharmaceutical manufac-
tlll‘t‘l's are required to make
their promotional literature
conform Closely to the prod-
uct description in their pack-
age euclmures. presenting in
detail the possible effects.
Contraindicatpns and dosage
rermnmendation.

 

 

 

been determined for the disease.

Nevertheless, Col Maurer dis-
closed that nearly 1,500,000 doses
of vaccine were produced in this
country last year to cope with
any incidence that might occur.
The Scuth African sheep indus-
try, he noted, is dependent upon
the yearly use of 25 million vac-
cine doses.

Vigilance Urged

In addition to blue tongue, Col.
Maurer cautioned American vet-
erinarians to familiarize them—
selves and to be on guard against
African horse sickness, African

(Continued on page 4)

One may be the simple fact of
the lengthening average life-span
of pet animals, Dr. Shirmer said.
Another is that “owners seem
more inclined to expend time
and money to prolong the lives
of their pets.”

Other factors might be that
diagnostic services have im-
proved, and blood dyscrasias
have become more common, “pri-
marily as a result of promiscu-
ous use of some of the newer
therapeutic agents,” he asserted.

Recent evidence that avian
leukosis and mouse leukemia are
of viral origin has served to con-
vince most researchers that “the
big breakthrough in cancer re-
search will be in the field of leu-
kemia,” Dr. Schirmer declared.
“Yet, inadequate understanding
of terminology is probably one
of the greatest deterrents to the

(Continued on page 2)

l

 

 

ETERI NARY DISPATCH

March 1961

Combined Operations Mapped

Closer Link Forged

ByA VMA

and AMA

Special to Veterinary Dispatch
CHICAGO—For the ﬁrst time in the history of medicine in
the United States, leaders of the American Veterinary Medical
Association and of the American Medical Association have

 

 

 

Virology Gains
Held ‘Exciting’

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

COLLEGE STATION, Tex. ——
Recent developments in virology
are projecting new challenges in
veterinary medicine, Dr. L. C.
Grumbles told VETERINARY
DISPATCH in a recent interview.

Cited as of special interest
were the demonstrated relation-

L
Y

 

ship between measles and dis-
temper virus, the association of
parainfluenza virus with ship-
ping fever in cattle and the re-
covery of mumps virus from dogs.
More Research Needed

Dr. Grumbles, who is Professor
and Head of the Department of
Veterinary Microbiology in the
Texas Agricultural and Mechani-
cal College System, attributed
the expansion of virology re-
search to such new techniques as
tissue culture and cytofluores—
cent staining. However, he said,
“virology is still the least ex-

plored area of veterinary- public

health .”

Discussing recent findings, the
researcher said that there is a
“definite relationship between
measles virus and canine dis-
temper virus, but there is no evi-
dence that they are the same
agent.”

No doubt, he added, they are
distinct agents, yet belong to the
same group of viruses. “Whether

 

(Continued on page 2)

 

 

Key Role in Space Medicine

‘Ch imponants ’——D VM Assignment

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE,
N. M.—When future chroniclers

of space science record the epoch- _.

making success of Project Mer-

cury, they will have to devote a}

major chapter in the annals of
that historic event to the key
role of a team of veterinarians.

The project called for a spe- .

cialized biomedical team consist»
ing of physicians, veterinarians,
physiologists, psychologists and

biologists, aided by well-trained '

technicians in the areomedical
lfield, to prepare and protect the
‘liviiig specimens, both animal
and human, on whom success of
the program depended.
Veterinarians were charged
with chief responsibility for the
efforts of the overall team.
DVM Heads Project
Underscoring
importance of veterinary skills

to the entire program, Major
John D. Mosely-a DVM—was
uselected as project ofﬁcer. Major

1
l

__ _._.4___,__,_——-—

Aeromedical
. L'. S. Air Force.

All facets of the biomedical“

and bio-astronautic work hav

bent integrated under his direc-Q
:ion at the Laboratory. which is

(Continued on page 8)

  

the particular

. Mosely. who has been closely an-
identiﬁed with the program from 1‘ .

its outset. also holds the ofﬁce of
Chief, Bio-Astronautics Branch,
Field Laboratory, . -

3?

3e
1’

e

 
 
 
 

 
 

PROSPECTIVE “STAND-IN" for astronaut sits for
l trait” under direction of Lt.

     
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

   
   

joined forces formally to plan
long-range programs for the
advancement of their common
interests and objectives.

At a joint conference held here
last month, top spokesmen of
both groups explored ways in
which they could cooperate in
such matters as adequate dis-
semination of drug information
and the use of qualified person-
nel in the handling of laboratory
animals.

The meeting was characterized
by Dr. H. E. Kingman, Jr., execu-

Dr. Howard

Dean Leasure

 

tive secretary of the AVMA, as
“a recognition by both profes-
sions that they are mutually de-
pendent in areas contributing to
the progress of health and

science.”

Speaking for the AMA, Dr. E.
B. Howard told VETERINARY
DISPATCH the meeting was “a
most useful and productive con-
ference, and from it should ﬂow
numerous joint programs that
will improve the liaison between
veterinarians and physicians
throughout the nation.”

Improved Liaison Foresecn

In attendance were members
of the AVMA’s Board of Gov-
ernors and a committee of the
AMA Board of Trustees.

After airing a number of ideas
of mutual interest, the meeting
resolved in a. preliminary way,
to work together along the fol-
lowing lines:

0 Encouragement and crea-
tion of more opportunities for»
the training and utilization of
veterinarians in centers of re-

(Contz‘nued on page 2)

 

 

Heart Ailments Seen
Averted by Control
Of Inflammatory Ills

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

ST. LOUIS—Effective preven-
tive treatment of conditions
which appear to cause cardio-
vascular disturbances may help
ward off certain forms of heart
disease in dogs.

This therapeutic approach to
canine cardiology was recently
described here by Dr. D. L.

 

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
   

   
  

  
  

X-ray “por-
Elden D. Miksch, DVM (left).

   

Baker, professor and chairman
of the small animal clinic at the
College of Veterinary Medicine,
Iowa State University, Ames.

In a paper presented at the
sixty—ninth annual convention
of the Missouri Veterinary Medi-
cal Association, Dr. Baker said
“The largest group of causes of
inﬂammation of the heart in-
cludes most of the common dis-
eases of dogs.”

Citing a number of disorders
that seem to be related to heart

(Continued on page 4)

 

l.

 

 

 

‘ “A it".
we,

._ ,A._ 4\\__,
,—W.——

l:
l

 




Page Two
Vulva Offers Clue

Sexof Unborn Calves
Reported Predictable

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

HOUSTON—A method for predicting the sex of a calf prior
to its birth was described by a leading Mexican veterinarian
at the convention here of the Texas Veterinary Medical As-
sociation held here recently.

Dr. Francisco Martinez Gar-
ibay, professor 1n the school of
veterinary medicine at the Uni-
versity of Mexico, said the med -
0d, 90 per cent accurate, is re-
lated to physical changes in the
vulva caused by hormonal action
of the unborn calf.

Between the seventh and
ninth month, Dr. Garibay said,
these changes are easily ob-
served.

“When the fetus is a male, the
inferior commissure of the vulva
will be round, with the hair
growth distributed in a more ex-
tensive zone of the inferior part
of the vulva and at the sides,”
he said. ,

Signs Disappear

When the fetus is a female. he
added, the inferior comnxissure
is angular, and the hair is dis-
tributed more uniformly forming

asharper angle.

“These characteristics remain
until a week afte1 the parturi-
tion, when they begin to disap-
pear,” he said, “and are attribu-
table to the hormonal secretion
of the adrenal gland of the
fetus.”

In cases where such a diagno-

VETERINARY DISPATCH

Toxic Effects
Traced to Most
Forage Species

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

COLUMBIA, Mo.-——More often
than suspected, serious tox1c
conditions in livestock may be
traceable to common forage
plants which animals graze. This
finding was recently reported by
Dr A A. Case, Professor of Veter-
inary Medicine and Surgery at
the University of Missouri.

Under certain circumstances,
plants such as the clovers, small
grain pastures, sudan grass and
other important pasture plants
“can cause serious toxic effects,’
D1. Case said.

Toxic Types

As examples he cited the photo-
sensitization which follows the
grazing by horses of alsike clover,
and swine grazing rape or oats.
Some of the most severe reac-
tions in cattle follow the grazing
of wheat plus wild mustards in
the spring, he said. Swine may
also be adversely affected by
celery—leaved buttercup, he
added.

One forage condition, Dr. Case
noted, occurs in a period when
the growth of clover or alfalfa is
high enough to produce heavy
shade near the ground. At such
a time, molds on undergrowth
may become prevalent enough to
cause a serious disturbance in
the vitamin A and D and min-
eral balance in swine, he said.

As a corrective measure, Dr.
Case advised a change of pas-
tures and providing a much

March 1961

 

 

 

Dr. F. M.

Garibay

 

A. C. ANDERSEN, DVM,
man, with 4 generations of beagles used in radiation studies.

(left) and G. Hardesty, kennel fore-

 

 

Virology

(Continued from page 1)

or not canine distemper virus
will prove a satisfactory vaccine
against measles in man or
measles virus will play a role in
the immunization of dogs against
distemper can only be answered
by additional research,” he de-
clared.

 

Blood Substance Is Weighed
As Factor in Radiation Deaths ' f

Special to Veterinary Dispatch .
DAVIS, Calif—An intravascular substance found in beagles .

who have succumbed to lethal doses of X—radiation may turn , f , l
out to be a contributing factor in radiation death, according . l

 

1. ..,,
,WI < . ”a
,- ﬁ‘ﬁﬁxh . . "1’.

 

"g1: uterus of a cow under oestro-.

 

sis cannot be made, Dr. Garibay
said “it can be attributed to in.

tor-sexual fetal states or to di- -

vergences between the anatomic
— ’sex and the chromatinic sex.”

Postpartum Problems
Dr. Garibay also said that the

pa; "2 ‘ 119-1:

" ection’ amen cattle” ‘1 " ' ‘ ’ 1;» . ~ .
Elixiid. m. rob m 1 Mum}: Virus _ ’ on methods of disseminating process to be a complex poly— 68101, 17 er cent ha 319315 0m:
" Isms are greater Metrms, en "u ,, , knowledge of drugs. saccharide. one f0 131101 f th V8 19" an
domdhiitls, cerviﬁtis, and 1121- This means he continued, 0 Improvement of relation- The SUbStance was found to be “r 0 039 deaths WET.’

gmitis are the most common cen-
‘ sequences ” he said.

“Animals under progesteronic
action obtain hormonal equilib-
rium more rapidly, and the
uterus involutes in less time, and
postpartum problems are mini-
mal,” he added.

He urged that studies be ini-
tiated to determine whether milk
cows can be classiﬁed according
to hormonal type. .

Dr. Garibay’s address, de-
livered in Spanish, was trans-
lated by Houston veterinarian,
Dr. E. P. Stallings.

 

fever, Dr. Grumbles reported:

“A group of viruses known as
myxoviruses are known to cause
a severe febrile respiratory dis-
ease in children. Recently an

 

that “we .must now wonder-
whether the infection might go
from cattle to man or from man
to cattle. The bright side of this
development is that it may pave
the way for an effective control
program for shipping fever.”

Another exciting finding, Dr.
Grumbles said, is the isolation
of mumps virus from the saliva
of two dogs that had been in
contact with children with
mumps. This, he noted, is the
ﬁrst authentic report of mumps
virus infection in any host other
than man and monkey.

 

 

Pointing to bovine shipping

agent of this type has been iso— 1
lated from cattle with shipping,-
t‘ijfever and serologic studies m-

higher level of vitamin A-D/CaP
in the ration of swine for a few
weeks.

Closer Link

(Continued. from page 1)
search, and development of ef-
fective: postgraduate mechanisms

 

 
 
   
 

 

ships between both associations
on a membership level through
active staff liaison. and inter-
change of organization informa-
tion through reports in each
other’s journals.

Among the AVMA leaders at-
tending were Dean E. E. Leasure,
President; Dr. Jack Knowles,
Chairman, Executive Board; and
Dr. Mark L. Morris, President-
Elect.

Dr. Morris called the confer-
ence “a most signiﬁcant, historic
step forward for American medi-
Cine.”

 

 

 

Dental Protection for Cattle

 

Capping Believed Prolonging Life

Special to Veterinary Dispatch
PORTLAND, Ore —-A new tech-

nique of tooth capping now
makes it possible to halt prema-
ture abrasion of the incisor teeth
of cattle grazing in sandy areas
and to prolong their useful lives,
a Chappell, Nebraska dentist
told a meeting of the Oregon
Veterinary Medical Association.
The dentist is Dr. Ward S. New-
comb, who three years ago devel-
oped the animal dentistry pro-
cedure whereby a stainless steel
cap is cemented on each of the
eight lower anterior incisors.
The crowns not only insulate
the nerve of the tooth, but they
also are self-retaining.
Insulation of the dental ce—
ment enables th animal to drink
water in comfort, and milk out-
put is thus increased, he said.
Capping, Dr. Newcomb told the
veterinarians, is particularly ef—
fective in prolonging the useful-
ness of cattle and sheep in the
Great Plains states and in high
fluorine areas.
“Since the lower anterior teeth
of cattle and sheep determine
how long theylive, how long

  

 

BOVINE teeth at a stage when
they can be saved. If not capped
at this time, animal’s teeth
tend to wear down so that it
can no longer crop grass.

 

their nutritional standards can
be met and their production
maintained,” he said, “capping
should be of vital interest to
veterinarians.” ‘

 

      

FIRST stage of deterioration.

 

l ‘ SET of teeth. completely capped.

veterinarian who is directing
a long-range study here for the
Atomic Energy Commission.
The material, not yet chemi-
cally identiﬁed, has been discov-
ered through special staining
techniques in the blood vessels
of 171 dogs who had succumbed

 

m

    

speciﬁcally related to ionizing
radiation damage, Dr. Andersen
declared.

interview with VETERINARY
DISPATCH, “we know more
what it isn’t than what it is.
While attempts to isolate or
identify it have failed, thus far,
we know for certain that it is
there because we can see it.”

Effects on Fertility

Another finding disclosed by
Dr. Andersen in his investiga-
tion on the effects of radiation
is that heavy doses of X—rays,
enough to kill some dogs, have
no apparent effect on fertility.

At the same time, he found
that irradiation of female bea-
gles with neutrons-a principal
by-product of atomic and hydro-
gen bombs—does produce a re—
duction in both fertility and
lactation.

Fertility was determined sta-
tistically, on the basis of pups
whelped per dam, Dr. Andersen
explained. Proven studs were
used in the study, and a female
dog whelping one or more pups
was considered fertile.

While the analysis established
a reduction in fertility, it did not
reveal evidence of sterility
among the treated groups, he
noted.

Premature Aging

A third observation made by
Dr. Andersen was that the irra-
diated dogs seem to show some
evidence of premature aging,
mostly greying of the muzzle and
coat, earlier than is usual in
beagles.

Describing the experiment it—
self—a 25-year study begun 10
years ago-Dr. Andersen said 14
different X-ray exposures are
used. These vary from 25r at 28-
day intervals totalling 100r, to
a single 300r exposure.

Only the single 300r dose is in
the acute radiation lethality

 

range, he said, adding that ap-

 

 

» .3 '1 tion effects

“Actually,” he said in a recent

to Dr. Allen C. Andersen, at _ l

proximately 50 percent of dogs
survive this exposure. ’

Four hundred beagles are in-

residence here, on the University
of California campus They are
yielding valuable 1nformatmy on

the care of dogs in gene1a1,ag1ng,r-
processes and long-term radia-
' - ordmg to Dr. '1

 
 

 

r1» Oi—«Jm‘?

due to acute radiation.

 

Leukemias

(Continued from page 1)
advancement of this objective.”

As an example, he noted a ten— .

dency to lump various leukemias
and different stages of these dis-
eases in the one category of
“malignant lymphoma.”

It is important to be aware of
the differences, he said, pointing
to “some clinical advantages in
classifying this group further as
to cell type,” even though this
cannot always be accomplished
until after the initial condition
has been diagnosed.

Various Stages

Among particular stages of
malignant lymphoma that
should be recognized, Dr. Schir-
mer listed:

0 The preleukemic stage, in
which some dogs show hypoplas-
tic bone marrow, a resultant
anemia and agranulocytosis, and
then “develop a picture'of mye-
logenous leukemia.”

0 The sub-leukemic, or aleu-
kcmic stage, “the most common
type in dogs.” Cell counts may
be elevated slightly due to sec-
ondary infection, but no ‘typical
cell’ appears in the circulating
blood.

0 The myelocytic, monocytic
and lymphocytic types, of which
the latter “is by far the most
common.”

0.1 the subject of therapy, Dr,
Schirmer noted the value of
milder antibiotics for control of
infection, and the use of trans-
fused blood for hemorrhage and
anemia, when indicated. Nitro-
gen mustard, he observed, is
“very hot to handle.”

Corticosteroids “are of value
in lymphatic forms of leukemia,
and do apparently slow their

 

course,” he said.

 

      
 
     
  
    
   

 

 
  

 
 
  
 
 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

«prevent the transmission of the

From Overeating

dency of poults to eat whatever
' 1 attracts
1’ 1.1:: L30
.- ‘ litter according to Roy Roberts,
“ Pu r du e University extension
' g‘poultryman

, ,.;._."l,ed poults may eat enough corn
"Thinks or small pieces of cob to

“other kindS of litter—straw, pea-

Mareh 1961

Anaplasmosis
Control Called
‘A P o o o 9
OSSIhlllty

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

ST. LOUIS-—The present out-
look for control measures for
anaplasmosis is one of cautious
optimism, Dr. R. D. Turk, head
of the Department of Veterinary
Parasitology at the A 8; M Col-
lege of Texas, told a meeting of
the Missouri VMA here.

‘Control is a difficult prob—
lem ” he said. “All the recovered
animals, both adult and calf,
must be considered immune car-
rieis and probably will be in—
fected for life.”

Dr. Turk noted that there is
considerable interest in the
whole-blood test, which uses
complement fixation. However,
this is still experimental, he ob-
served.

Vigilance Urged

Dr. Turk urged extreme care
in introducing possible anaplas-
mosis carriers into known clean
herds. with special vigilance to

diseases from one animal to an—
other.

“The practitioner will have to
continue, to use the drugs that
are now available until more
specific preparations can be
found,” he said. A tremendous
amount of}. research is being done
on detection methods, the com-
plement-fixation test and other
control measures, Dr. Turk de-
clared, “and eradication by these
methods may be a possibility in
the not too distant future.”

 

Poults May Starve

LAFAYETTE Ind. -— The ten-

the1r attentlon may
mes Kcause heavy ‘»“death
.l swhen they are» started on

grOund corn cob litter is

completely pack their gizzards
with a hard mass of fibrous
material, he points out. The re-
suit is death from starvation in
one to three weeks.

Poults also tend to eat enough

nut hulls, cane litter—to cause
death, Mn. Roberts says.

To curb 'rnortality, he advises
covering I1tter for the ﬁrst five
to seven days with cloth or crin—
kled paper inside the guard
aroundithe brooder. By the time
the guard is removed, says Mr.
Roberts, the poults should be
sufficiently accustomed to feed
to control their eating.

DVM Global Group
Special to Veterinary Dispatch

AUBURN, Ala. —- A new
global prdfessional society-—
the World ASsociation for the
Advancement of Veterinary
Parasitology—is in the making,
with Dr. W. S. Bailey, of the
School of Veterinary Medicine
at Auburn University as or-
ganizing committee secretary.

Draft statutes for the new
group are expected to be rati-
ﬁed at the next meeting of
the World Veterinary Congress
in Hanover, Germany, in 1963.
Meanwhile, veterinary para-
sitologists have been invited to
apply for membership.

The association aims to en-
courage research, exchange in-
formation and set up meetings
for the study of parasites of
veterinary significance.

Chairman of the organizing
committee is Dr. E. J. L. Souls-
by. of Great Britain. Assisting
Drs. Bailey and Soulsby in pre-
liminary organization details is
Dr. T. W. M. Cameron, of Can-- -
ada.

 

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

COPENHAGEN~A Danish vet-
erinarian studying the teratog-
enic effect of vitamin A defi-
ciency in pigs has succeeded in
producing 18 different malfor-
mations in fetuses whose
mothers had been depleted of
the vitamin.

She is Dr Birthe Palludan, as-
sistant professor, Department of
Physiology, the Royal Veterinary
and Agricultural College here.

Dr. Palludan expects to come
to the United States this spring,
to spend two months comparing
notes with Dr. Josef Warkany,
Professor of Research Pediatrics
at Cincinnati College of Medi-
cine, who is carrying on special
studies to explain the mechan-
ism of vitamin A.

The malformations she has
produced in the fetuses of vita-
min A-deprived mothers include
internal hydrocephalus and spi-
nal cord herniations.

Bone Tissue Affected

According to Dr. Palludan, the
spinal herniations, believed to
be the only anomaly directly at-
tributable to lack of vitamin A,
“may be due to retarded growth
of bone tissue in relation to the
relatively normal growth of
nerve tissue.”

Microphthalmia was seen most
frequently in 91 piglets born of
nine sow and gilt parents which
had been deprived of the vita-
min during the first month or
throughout pregnancy, she said.

Other typical anomalies re-
ported by Dr. Palludan included
cardiac defects, diaphragmatic
hernias, malformed and unas-
cended kidneys, accessory ears

 

 

and underdeveloped genital or-
gans. ‘
. . Blindness in Newborn
Th€°f +31 - :' s-i- ‘3 I» .!
Sharcher told VETERINARY
DISPATCH She now plans to in-
tensity her study of the enig-
matic vitamin by extending her
investigation further down the
evolutionary trail. _
“I want to find out what hap-
pens from conception to the
three months, three weeks, three
days before a pig is born,” she
said.
“We know the eyes begin to

 

 

53W . "" g.
verse of many usual emergency

VETERINARY DISPATCH

Many Fetal Anomalies Produced
In Sows Deprived of Vitamin A

 

 

 

 

- 7' .
l; l .1 .
.‘ 'a.-v- ~u0

n ‘1,~..»»_.—u¢~-‘)-<- M h-.-,... --_......._

 

Page Three

Virulent Virus

Use Is Upheld
In Hog Cholera

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

AMES, Ia.-—-The use of virulent
hog cholera virus may one day
be outmoded, but as yet it can-
not be abandoned, according to

PIGLETS '01 sow deprived of vitamin A ﬁrst month of preg-
nancy show some degrees of incoordination, microphthalmia.

BRA N 0 LEFT is from normal newborn piglet.
right, from stillborn piglet of sow deprived of vitamin A
throughout pregnancy, has rounded look, distended lateral
ventricles, thin gray and white matter, internal hydrocephalus.

Dr. Paul C. Bennett, professor of
veterinary pathology and super~
visor of the Iowa Veterinary
Medical Diagnostic Laboratory
at Iowa State University.

Dr. Bennett says that before
virulent virus can be abandoned
entirely, there is a need for
much better diagnostic methods
and the answers to several other
questions.

As to whether the use of vi-
rulant cholera virus is necessary,
Dr. Bennett says “yes and no."
He basis his view on field evi-
dence which shows problem
cases developing both from vi-
rulent virus and from commer-
cial modified virus.

Not 100 Per Cent
The evidence indicates a trend
to increased use of modified
virus with serum, with a cone-
sponding decrease in recent years
in the number of problems, he
says. ,

However, he adds, the evi-
dence also shows that none of
the available antigens can be
considered 100 percent satisfac-
tory.

He says the field evidence sug-
gests that methodology influ-
ences results with either type

 

................

 

 

Bram on

 

 

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

Non-Emergency Procedures

Advised 1n Head InJury Cases

ment through changes in tech-
niques
developed.

 

 

 
 

W 11‘“

procedures should be apphed ace
cording to T. H. Brasmer, D .V M
of Danville, 111.

He told veterinarians attend-
ing the 79th annual meeting of
the Illinois State Veterinary
Medical Association here that no
transfusions should be used un-
less vitally necessary. Blood
pressure should be kept low, and
diuretics and hypertonic fluids
should be administered, he said.
Dehydration for several days is
sometimes helpful, he added.

Advance Planning
Surgery should be performed

 

 

 

 

DR. PALLUDAN with specimens
from her pig fetus collection.

 

form by the 18th day. We also
know when the sows and gilts
are depleted of vitamin A, some
fetuses develop no eyes at all.
This may be due to A-avitamino-
sis. Or it may be due to a virus
infection in the pregnant sow.
“I would like to follow the his-
tologic development of the eyes
to see what happens on the cel-
lular level, and to determine
whether these changes are phy-
sical or biochemical,” Dr. Pallu-
dan said.

Standard procedure, she ex-
plained, is to extirpate part of
the uterus and remove several
fetuses. Later, the sow is slaught-
ered and the rest of the litter re-
moved. Thus, she said, “it be-
comes possible to study and com-
pare fetal development at vari-

 

for obvious depressed fragments,
but he cautioned that extreme
care must be taken with anesthe-
s1a.

Dr. Brasmer’s advice on treat—
ment of head injuries was given
in a report on the surgical care
of emergency patients.

“There is a great need for ad-
vance planning for emergencies,”
he said. He cited the need for
immediate availability of proper
equipment, packs, instruments,
blood donors, blood expanders,
oxygen and trained assistants.

Dr. Brasmer also urged early
Vigorous treatment of shock. In
the dog, if deep shock appears
within a few moments after the
injury, massive internal hemor-
rhage must be suspected, he
warned.

Urination Important

“No cardiac or respiratory
stimulants should be adminis-
tered unless the animal is in ex-
tremus, for lowered blood pres-
sure can be our greatest friend
in severe hemorrhagic problems,”
Dr. Brasmer declared.

Part of the initial examina-
tion should be an attempt to
palpate a partially filled blad-
der, he said.

“Any dog that does not urinate
within six hours after injury
should come under careful scru-
tiny. If after six hours you still
cannot palpate the bladder and

 

ous stages in the same sow.” l

  
   

bladder. ”

wilogwﬁﬁw
within 24; hours after "a‘ruptu

 

 

.-
...............

.....
'''''''''

.............

 

.
........

 

there has been no urination, con- 1

Now available on ﬁlm ..

  
         

     

from Schering...

LABORATORY PROCEDURES
25 min. color

Laboratory procedures of diagnostic and
clinical interest are presented and
narrated by John W. Bardens, D. V. M. ., of
Lowell, Ind. Demonstrations include
bacterial sensitivity testing, determina-
tion of the icterus index, blood studies,
cerebrospinal ﬂuid examinations, uri-
nalyses and fecal examinations. All can
be performed with minimal equipment

and expense.

Other films from the Schering

Veterinary Film Library

“METI” STEROIDS IN : :
VETERINARY MEDICINE

 

   
   

24 min. color . . . . .
“MORETROFITS WITH TRILAFON®
15 min. color

 

0000000000000000.000.000.0009090000000

RESPIRATORY PROBLEMS
IN BRACHYCEPHALIC DOGS
20 min. color

000000000000...-00000000000000.0090...

SURGERY OF THE JUVENILE
CATARACT IN THE CANINE
20 min. black 81 white

Ooooooclooooooodooococoooooooooooooooo
These timely teaching ﬁlms are available on loan
for showing to interested professional groups.
Please specify ﬁlm title, type and size of audience,
date ﬁlm desired and name and address of person
to receive ﬁlm. Address youi requests to:

Audio«Visual Department
Schering Corporation
Union, New Jersey

 

 

 
 
  

-mc
....

and perhaps further improve-1

and methods can be.‘

u ,v a

t I;;
v -' 'h t "l
1‘1 .;."’,f; -
. . ‘ I
#1 .
.._,

'-‘.‘

-, inset "

C.‘
.‘V .

. ' r
‘35“la'i.” “'

l

.v

 

 

 

 

 

 

ief ~ ‘__. V
_;;§§’?I';"'.

‘ A

(dame:

f
X

  
      
   
   
   
 
 
 
    
    
 
   
  
 
   
   
     
   
 
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
    
 
     
   
    
   
    
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

       
         
 
       
    
         
       
       
      
        
     
       
     
 

 
   
   
       
       
     
       
   
      
      
     
       
       
       
       
    
     
    
 
    
       
    
    
     
     

 
   
  
 

     
   

     
 

‘7

       
       
 
     
     
 
  

 

 




Page Four

VETERINARY DISPATCH

 

 

 

 

~ ,. h. . ~.,. iﬁ' -
MxM~M~WMMvnW
' \

 

. or I.M."‘Administrat10n
is your answer to cases requiring an immediate
hormonal response. When threatened with the
crisis of acute adrenocortical insufﬁciency in
animals, the intravenous injection of AZIUM
Solution is an invaluable aid in the treatment

of shock states, accidents, toxemias and cir-
culatory crises.

In addition, AZIUM Solution, administered
intravenously or intramuscularly, provides
rapid, effective and economical management
of the various inﬂammatory, allergic, rheu-
matic, dermatologic and other conditions

known to be responsive to corticosteroid
therapy. '

AZIUM Solution affords the best answer to

cases in which an injectable corticosteroid 18
indicated because

0 AZIUM possesses unexcelled anti—inﬂam-
matory activity—approximately 20 times that
of prednisolone and 7 O to 80 times that of
hydrocortisone;

. AZIUM Solution is the most economical
steroid preparation available.

packaging: AZIUM Solution, 1 mg. /cc., 100 cc.
multiple-dose vial, box of 1.

For complete information on this drug, see special insert
in this issue.

 

dtwﬂtmy’m} dear (106W

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

NEW YORK—Recent studies
of brain activity in newborn cats
hold promise of aiding veterinar-
ians in diagnosing problems of
abnormal excitability and sus-
ceptibility to seizures in animals.

Results of these investigations
were reported here by Dominick
P. Purpura, M.D., of the College
of Physicians and Surgeons, Col—
umbia University, at the New
York Academy of Sciences.

Dr. Purpura said that, accordd
ing to his observations, “various,
types of learning processes could
involve transmission of nerve
impulses in the layers of the
cerebral cortex that develop at
differing rates.”

Effect of Brain Damage

Studies of the cat showed, he
said, that those nerve impulses
follow complex pathways involv-
ing both excitatory and inhibit-
ory neural organizations. The
inhibitory nerve cell junctions,
he stated, “apparently develop
later than the excitatory ones
in some superficial cortical path—
ways.”

Dr. Purpura found that the
kind of brain damage in the
newborn which blocks transmis-
sion of impulses along nerve fi-
bers from cortical to subcortical
levels, causes proliferation of ex-
citatory ﬁbers in the cortex.

“The net result,” he pointed
out, “is to increase the number
of excitatory synapses, thus fa—
cilitating the overall excitability
of the cortex.” ‘

Such a process of interruption
of nerve impulse transmission,
he said, could underlie abnormal
excitability and susceptibility to

 

 

,. _ seizures in animals Whose cor-v

« . mightexplain the high incidence

 

 

 

 

 

 

of“ epilepsy among brain- dam-
aged children, Dr. Purpura said
the possibility was “interesting.”
He emphasized, however, that
this inference is highly specula-
tive, and does not immediately
hold any promise of a method
for treatment of epilepsy.

In response to a query by
VETERINARY DISPATCH, Dr.
Purpura explained that the new-
born cat is especially adaptable
to this type of study. From a
morphological viewpoint, he said,
the kitten most closely resembles
the newborn human in its early
helplessness, dependence, and
behavior development.

He expressed the hope that
more research will be done in
veterinary medicine to ascertain
the incidence and ecology of
seizuies in animals since “such
data would aid efforts to under-
stand this universal problem.”

 

 

Twins Wanted
Special to Veterinary Dispatch
BELTSVILLE, Md.—There’s

no reward, but USDA scien-
tists would appreciate it

 

very much if veterinarians
would call their attention to
identical twin beef-type bull
calves. The animals are
wanted for nutrition and
breeding studies at the de-
partment’s Agricultural and
Research Center here.

The calves may be pure-
bred, grade or crossbred ani-
mals, less than 5 months old.
If possible, USDA would like
to find them within a 250—
mile radius of Washington
to hold down shipping costs.

Identical twin calves are
rare, but they are especially
useful in research because of
their similar physical reac-
tions. USDA will, of course,
pay the veterinarian’s client

 

‘Helpless’ Kitten Helps Researc_h_

New Clues to Seizures Are Probed

March‘ 1951;

 

 

 

WDR. '1). P. PURPUR (left) and Dr. E. M. Housepian
manipulate electrodes on surface of newborn kitten’s cortex.

 

 

(Continued from page 1)

swine fever, lumpy skin disease
and Rift Valley fever.

He emphasized that in the re-
cent past, “some of these exotic
diseases have shoWn a remark-
able ability to spread after many
years of confinement in relative-

 

1y small areas of the world.”
I“ g , g ki '

to 95 percent ie’o

the strain Forty—two straiﬂis ar-
known.
Losses Cited

In the Fall of 1959 it ravaged
horse and mule herds in Iran,
Pakistan and Afghanistan. After
outwintering, it continued to
rampage through India, Iraq,
Syria, Turkey, Cyprus, Jordan
and Lebanon, causing losses es-
timated to exceed 170,000 head.
African swine fever is highly
contagious, with a short course

Col. Fred D. Maurer

and 100 per cent mortality. The
disease travelled from Africa to
Portugal and Spain last year. It
is still unchecked in Spain where
it has claimed an estimated 100,—
000 animals and control costs
have already exceeded $9 mil-
lion.
Cattle Major Victims

There is no vaccine. Col.
Maurer described it as similar to
American hog cholera and noted
that American and European
swine are “highly susceptible.”

Lumpy skin disease of cattle
first appeared in 1929. It is an
acute infectious d‘sease spread
by contact and insects. After a
15-year confinement to Rhodesia

 

 

 

for the animals.

 

 

 

African Diseases Threaten US.

A

Mediterranean. South African
veterinarians developed a vac-
cine this year.

Rift Valley fever attacks sheep,
cattle and men. In 1951 an 95..
timated 22,000 humansgsvere af-
fected with the influenéza-like
illness. During this same period
the disease killed 100,000 sheep.

 

it has exploded and burned a'
path through Africa to the?

ere 1-15 Prﬁsumptlve ev1dence»

h what Col
may happen.

Heart

(Continued from page 1)

problems, he noted that “septi—
cemias from focal infections
with thromboembolic spread of
organisms, especially strepto—.
cocci, staphylococci, and coli-
forms, may follow broncho-
pneumonia.
Inﬂammatory Ills

This condition, he said, may be
consequent to any of a number
of inﬂammatory ailments, from
distemper, tonsillitis and tonsil-
lar abscesses, to infected anal
and and circumanal glands.
prostatitis, cystitis, staphylococ—
cic dermatitis or so—called stran—
gles in puppies.” ‘

Dr. Baker said that infectious
canine hepatitis virus causes
endothelial breakdown, with
edema and hemorrhage in the
heart muscle followed by a re-
active interstitial ﬁbrosis.

“Valvular sclerosis,” he said,
“may follow healing of vegeta-
tive valvulitis resulting from
secondary bacterial invasion.
Distemper may cause degenera-
tive myocardial lesions with
atrophy and stretching of myo-
cardial ﬁbers.”

In the course of leptospirosis
(both that caused by L ictero-
hemorrhagiae and that caused by
L. canicola), he continued, one
may encounter interstitial myo—
carditis, edema, hemorrhages,
and multifocal necrosfs followed
by scarring and futile attempts
at myocardial regeneration.

Dr. Baker also reported cases
of nocardiosis, streptothricosis,
post—distemper from septicemia
in puppies secondary to pleuro-
pneumonia and sub—cutaneous
suppurations. Some of these in—
fections are remarkably resz'stant
to antibiotics, and a few may
even enhance the fungal
,growth,” he noted.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 

 

‘ .‘ .~

i i
‘9

 

 

 

 

 

4r "
..

< , ‘ '. . ’l.‘ 1133.:
K2 . , ,. .y
.y -, . . 3..
1 «‘ ‘ ,gg;, . -.‘
..r :- s,‘ H

1..

,' gt:
.\'

I. .
'> “'-
. €-

2»

n

('r

 

”larch 1961

VETERINARY DISPATCH

Page F incl

 

 

to
maintain
the therapeutic
response
eﬁectively,
economically

.....

 

1st corticosteroid in bolus form for
administration in large animals

especially designed for oral corticosteroid therapy in large
animals, AZIUM Boluses afford effective and economical means
to maintain the initial response obtained with parenteral
corticosteroid therapy in rheumatoid arthritis and other in-
ﬂammatory conditions.

particularly beneﬁcial as supportive therapy in respiratory
conditions, osteoarthritic lameness and various stress condi-
tions in both cattle and horses; ketosis, metritis, dystocias,
retained placenta and traumatic gastritis in cattle; and trau-
matic injuries to the appendicular skeleton in horses.

provide greater economy by effecting and maintaining thera-
peutic response with once—a-day administration of doses as low
as 5 mg. and by eliminating the necessity of injection therapy
in most cases.

Packaging: '
Azium Boluses 5 mg., scored, boxes of 30 and 100.

For complete information on this drug, see special insert in this issue.
December, 1959

 

 

 

 

      
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
     
   
  
  
     




’vnmnmnitr DISPATCH March 1961

Auxiliary Sets
Special Drive

For Research

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

CHICAGO—A $75,000 drive for
the AVMA Research Fund is now
under way by the Women’s Aux—
iliary to the AVMA. Covering all
50 states and Canada, the cam-
paign will solicit the more than
15,000 AVMA members in both
countries.

The money will provide grad-
uate training in research or
teaching through the AVMA Fel-

 

\

  
   
  
  

21"“. madame-f g

s u “‘83"

fgm \\M .3

ﬁx$\\\§ \x‘:\\ ~ ...

42;

(.-
.
r
(I
I.
l.
1.
l'.

   

s; “\1 I lowship Program.
{it}. The Women’s Auxiliary drive
\s. "i, has set quotas for every state
\::" 1 and province. These range from
a high of $4,607.02 from New
«1‘ 3 York to $30.73 from Alaska. In
$§ E Canada, the high allocation went
£3: -,E A to Ontario, with a goal of
§ 1.8“? if sews ~.\ we ,3... .. J $1,231.67, and smallest was New
$ .35. St“ \= \~1 \e‘ ' New.» $1ts$ Brunswick with $25.65.
, § ‘~ 1; ‘ 51.1me . “W District Directors Listed
$ .f 3°? CK To facilitate fund raising, the

"I!

United States was broken down
into districts, with directors for

fuil‘therapeutIc coverage

         

each area. They will work with
‘21:; 14proved1e agents the state chairmen.
£3 E .~ ‘55-- ti‘: The districts and their directors
,. ZIUM gt (dexamethasone)—- the corti» are:
gt District I (Connecticut, Maine,
.{é‘CxOSjEeréld highest In activity, lOWGSt In New Hampshire, New Y01k, Rhode
s :=‘ p 13; Island, Vermont)~—-Mrs. C. E. De-
§COSI§ Camp, Scarsdale, NY.
$‘ _'\ {E3} § District II (Delaware, District of
{ i“ ‘ ' ' ‘ _ Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey,
§1 Preaeine PenICIllInGand DIhydrostrep Pennsylvania, Virginia)-—Mrs. E. MEMBERS f d. I , ”e m Must protective clothing be.“
* ‘ -— . L Symington, Newark, Del. 0 ra 10 ogica a J - '
‘3 t, y cm SUlfate the antibiotic com District III (Alabama Florida fore entering Idaho reactor to investigate recent explosion.

 

gasp art-nation with wide spectrum antibac~
§§§enal activity.

CHLOR-TRIMETON Maleate (chlor-

" pheniramine maleate) -— the highly
effective, well tolerated antihistamine ALBANY N..Y

; Wisconsin)-—-Mrs. W. G. Magrane, ..
. . . were alerted recently to the milk from a contaminated magmas:

stornpreuention Of 96 Qllllﬂ 1' eactlonsnnn fiiipscelgéﬂljnfilmm’and Minnesota}? ,key role; whiCh they must be ingLedr ‘ , . . .1.

.111 , ‘ prepared to may Irt potential '. {as e *-
1' Mi‘rlrﬁsesog H Wetter, Princeton emergenices ot a radiological na- may 'be used.

Georgia, Mississippi, North Caro-
lina, South Carolina, Tennessee)
——-Mrs. Mark W. Emmel, Gains-
ville, Florida.

District IV (Kentucky, Michigan,
Ohio, West Virginiai—Mrs. H. H.
Sutton, Georgetown, Kentucky.

District V (Illinois, Indiana,

 

DVM’S Alerted to Keg Role
In Radiological Disasters

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

 

 

 

 

g!” I

   

Is.»
" \

0 When the 1131 content of g

              

 

   
   

  
  

 

1E, 1—. A, _. I 1 , .r 1 "K

 

w... "-
t

W: $1.“.
‘2":‘3. '

 

 

 

District VII (Kansas, Missouri,
Oklahoma)——Mrs. R. E, Bogue,
Wichita, Kansas.

ture.”
The serious

“are

dangers from

to Strontium90 and Cesi _'

0 How to decontarn nate milk

  

 

radioactive contamination from these ra ctive sub- “‘21

District VIII (Arkansas, Louisi- all around us, all the tlmer" Mr. stances by means- ion ex— 3
3113, Tean)'—M"S' 1" C~ Spears, Irving Sax, head 0f the Rale‘ change, or some other method.-
Fort Worth, Texas. logical Sciences Group, New . ' _ ‘1
District IX (Colorado, Nebraska, York State Department of ' That 1131 contamlnated mllk {
New MeXico, North Dakota, South Health, told VETERINARY can be turned into milk prod- ,I'
D’akOta Utah Wyomlng)~——Mrs. DISPATCH in a recent interview. ”0’55 stored for perhapsa month ' 7
Harry W. Johnson, Littleton, Colo. Food Animals Threatened and then safely used as food.
Haggii‘iCthvaRl‘tiilE-(BBR Ciilfgtriiraé As examples he cited the re- .' What levels 0f “onlamma‘
Payen, Sacramento, California cent fatal atomic reactor EXDIO' tlon to expect from mllk and
District XI (Alaska, Idaho Mon- sion in Idaho. and the threat of meat produced upon contam- i
tana, Oregon, Washington—Mrs. I. accidents involving the growing mated land. i
1 W. Vinsel, Dillon, Montana, number of trucks carrying atom- 0 How to decontaminate cat- e 3,,
District XII (All of CanadaI— to waste material on our high- tie and other farm animals from «* Ii,-

- ”'57"— ..,._

 

 

AZIMYCIN® Aqueous Suspension
indicated for both large and small
animals in a wide variety of, conditions

Mrs. W. G. Stevenson, Eden Mills,
Ontario.

 

Stock 13 Improved
By Superior Sires

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

WASHINGTON——The value of
superior sires has been shown
in a 35-year dairy study, accord-
ing to a United States Depart-
ment Agriculture report. In a
Holstein-Friesian breeding ex-
periment, the progeny of low-
producing cows raised the herd
average in a few generations
when good transmitting sires
were used.

Progress Noted
The use of such tested bulls,

ways. “Many other types of in-
dustrial mishaps can and do oc-
cur without necessarily being
publicized,” he added.

When highly concentrated
sources of contamination are let
loose, “not only the safety of the
population, but the well being
and pioductivity of our food ani—
mals are of absolutely vital im-
portance, ” Mr. Sax asserted.

The chief “vecto1s of expos-
ure” following the liberation of
radioactivity, he explained, are:
air, water and food.

Farm Contaminated

Primary contamination results
when the radioactivity is trans-
ported to a population area
where the people actually inhale
the activity or ingest it with

surface contamination.

0 Methods for storing of clean
feed» and water so as to ensure
a supply of usable milk and meat
in case of emergency

“This vital know- how is within
the scope of veterinaiy medi—
cine,” M1. Sax concluded, “and
it is high time the veter‘inaiy
profession got into it.”

 

Coming Events

March 31 Indiana Veterinary
Medical Association Fouith
Symposium on Therapeutic N u—
trition, State Boaid of Health
Building, Indianapolis.

April 3- 5 Washington State Uni-
versity School of Veterinaiy

 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  

. . . - drinkin wate . I

where bacterIal InfectIons susceptlble the department said, resulted in foods gSecondgryor 631316231531? Medicine Annual Conference 1
_ _ _ . _ rapid improvement in butterfat tion as of a farm area Mr Sax for Veteiinarians, Pullman, !

complicated by stress. _ erations. The herd’s yearly fat dangerous since it may result in April 18—21 American Animal. ;

For complete information on this drug, see special
insert in this issue.

 

output increased from an aver-
age of 530 pounds a cow to 703
in the ﬁrst ﬁve generations and
leveled off at 711 pounds in the
last three generations.

Transmission of production
characteristics from dam to
daughter is not always consis-
tent, the experiment indicated.
Even when using bulls, the high-

. est producing cows did not al—

ways haVe the highest producing

 

 

 

-‘ daughters.

 

contamination of the food cycle
for years.

“Once the contaminated air
Volume passes,” he said, “the
radioactivity levels in the air and
water soon return nearly to nor-
mal, but the farm stays con-
taminated.

The potential threat to the
food cycle demands the special
skills of veterinary science, he
said. The veterinarian must

 

. know:

 

 

Hospital Association, 28th An-
nual Meeting, Sheraton J effer-
son Hotel, St. Louis, Mo.

Apl'll 24- 26 Animal Health Insti-Lar

tute, 21st Annual Meeting, Uni-
versity of Cincinnati.

April 27-28 Southwestern Confer-
ence on Diseases in Nature
Transmissable to Man, A. and
M College of Texas, Memorial
Student Center, College Sta-
tion, Tex. ’

_‘

  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  




 

 

   
  
 

' St,

 

[larch I 961

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Re 3 Emit

“The mailman bit him”

 

 

 

’ Training Lag in Lab Animal Care Decried

To the Editor:

‘Must we wait for the American
medical profession to show us
the way?

Medical schools are seeking
veterinarians trained in labora-
tory animal medicine to direct
their (laboratory animal colonies.
Currently two ‘medical schools
are providing trained and quali-
ﬁed veterinarians in laboratory
animal medicine primarily for
other medical institutions.

Bowman Grey and U.C.L.A.
medical schools will provide in
the next two years four qualiﬁed
veterinarians for this new vet-
erinary ﬁeld. This statistic is
appalling.

' Medical schools alone will re-

' liquire some 300 qualiﬁed veteri-
-~"j’jj,g;‘.l‘his does not" includ
'. quirements of industry, public,

private and federal installations

  
     

11 years
' the rev

conducting medical research.

Full and part-time qualiﬁed
veterinarians will be needed to
assist in management of sound
programs of labOratory animal
experimentation.

At present, veterinary schools
do not offer training in labora—
tory animal Care to veterinary
students or graduates. The atti-
tude of some veterinary schools
is that the ﬁeld is too special-
ized. This is not true.

Laboratory . and domestic ani-
mals could be studied as a group
in the veterinary basic sciences
courses. Practitioners could func—
tion as con-Sultants to small and
local medical research centers if
provided with some training
from veterinary schools.

The veterinary profession will
lose an era of progress and re-
vitalization by failing to accept
this opportunity and challenge.
Medical schools cannot be ex-
pected to provide qualiﬁed vet—
erinarians in laboratory animal
medicine. At best they would
provide too few, too late.

’ Laboratory animals require

 

 

VETERINARY DISPATCH

The Newspaper
of the Veterinary Profession

VETERINARY DISPATCH is
published monthly for Schering

careful consideration on the
part of veterinary schools. Nor—
mal physiological, anatomical

determined and understood. Nu-
tritional requirements of our
laboratory animals must be es-
tablished.
George Bjotvedt, V.M.D.,
Director of Laboratory
Animal Medicine
School if Medicine
University of Pennsylvania
Philadelphia, Pa.

Urgent Quest:
Future DVM’s

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

 

 

perior high school students for
careers in Veterinary medicine is

Medical Association.

Dr. Leasure, dean of the School
of Veterinary Medicine, Kansas
State University, said the prob-
lem of recruitment is becoming
increasingly acute in the face of
a growing demand for veterinary
services.

Addressing the annual conven-
tion of the Ohio State Veterinary
Medical Association, held here re-
cently, Dr. Leasure placed the re-
sponsibility for attracting com-
petent young students to the
ranks of the veterinary profes-
sion squarely on the individual
practitioner. Recruitment, he
said, must start at the grass
roots level.

Community Influence

Through his work in the com-
munity, and his personal con-
tacts with high school students,
the individual practitioner is in
a position to impress qualified
young men and women with the
desirability of veterinary medi-
cine as a career, Dr. Leasure de-
clared.

He disclosed that the AVMA
has launched a comprehensive
survey of veterinary medicine in
the United States and Canada in
order to gather accurate informa~
tion on the present status and

Corporation, Bloomfield, N- J., ifuture development needs of the

by Veterinary Dispatch Pub-
lishing Co., Inc., 3 West 57th
New York 19, N. Y., as a
service to veterinarians.

The contents of VETERINARY

DISPATCH are determined by

an independent board of editors
and do not necessarily reflect
the views of Schering Corpora-
tion or its particular interests as

‘ a pharmaceutical company.

All correspondence should be
addressed to VETERINARY DIS-
PATCH 3 West 57th St., New
York 19, N. Y. Telephone:
PLaza 1-5343.

1

profession.

NIH Grants Offered

DAVIS, Calif—Two new NIH-
supported research training pro-
grams are being offered at the
University of California School
of Veterinary Medicine here.
Both carry stipends of $5,500.

One, in veterinary pathology,
leads to a Ph.D. The other pro-
gram, in chemical veterinary pa-
thology, oifers either a MS. or
PhD. after a year’s work.

 

 

Qualiﬁed DVM’s are eligible.

and histological ﬁndings must be »

“the greatest single problem fac-
ing the profession today,” accord-
ing to Dr. Elden E. Leasure, pres-
ident of the American Veterinary

VETERINARY DISPATCH

--—Can Humane Attitudes Be ‘Legislated’?

 

 

 

Science vs. Animal Care Statutes

 

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch
WASHINGTON—Proposed federal legislation to
regulate research involving experimental animals
is arousing opposition among a growing number
of scientiﬁc organizations and educators.

The American Institute of Biological Sciences,
which has 85,000 members belonging to 48 learned
societies, is now publicizing “universally unfavor-
able” reactions on the part of many leading
scientists toward the proposed legislation.

The avowed purpose of the measures is to pro-
vide, by governmental certiﬁcation, humane
treatment of animals used in laboratory work
by recipients of grants from federal agencies.

On this point, Dr. Maurice Visscher, of the Uni-
versity of Minnesota, former president of the
American Physiological Society, declared that
under already existing anti-cruelty laws, “no pro-
fessional scientist has ever been convicted of
cruelty in relation to a scientiﬁc laboratory ex-
periment.”

Humaneness Practiced

Professor A. P. Otis, University of Florida phy-
siologist, pointed out that regulatory legislation
“would add signiﬁcantly to the cost of adminis-
tering government—supported research, and the
amount of paper work involved . . . would ham-
per productivity in medical research.”

The American Veterinary Medical Association
went on record opposing the projected legisla-
tion in a recent editorial in the AVMA Journal.
In an interview with VETERINARY DISPATCH,
Dr. L. Meyer Jones, Director of Scientiﬁc Activi-
ties for the AVMA, declared that the proposed
measures are unnecessary since constructive pro-

 

ANATOMY AND HISTOLOGY OF THE EYE AND
ORBIT IN DOMESTIC ANIMAL by J. H. Prince,
0. D. Diesem,1rma Eglz‘tz‘s, and G. L. Ruskell.
Charles C Thomas, Springfield, Ill., 1960, 307
pages; $15. 75.

a worthwhile contribution to the study Of ophth-
almology
chapters is not only a must for persons inter-
ested in a comparative study of the eye of do-
mestic animals, but has perhaps its greatest
value to the veterinary clinician, surgeon and
practitioner.

The first five chapters are devoted to general
anatomical considerations of the orbit and its
ocular adnexa—globe, eyelids, vascular system
and neurology. The authors have attempted to
explain on a functional basis some of the varia-
tions found in the structure of the orbit, the
mobility of the eye, and the differences in the
angles of vision.

One very enlightening section is devoted to a
discussion of Harder’s gland and an explanation
of why the term should be used only when dis-
cussing the glandular material associated with
the eye of the cow and pig—a fact of which many
small animal practitioners and clinicians are not
aware

The remaining eight chapters present detailed

 

This book successfully fills a great Wild in the '
'1. ‘ ' field of veterinary literature as Well as maklng 1
TOLEDO Q. -—.—.- Recruiting su—"

The material contained Within its-~ orbit

_Veterinarians, MD’s Pool Resources

United in Battle Against Disease

grams to assure humane treatment of experi-
mental animals are continually advanced by
members of the veterinary profession.

He cited the Animal Care Panel, which is
projecting a voluntary program of accreditation
of institutions housing experimental animals.

Dr. Jones pointed also to the American Board
of Laboratory Animal Medicine, a specialty board
authorized by the AVMA in 1957, which offers a
certiﬁcation program to provide veterinarians
highly trained and qualiﬁed in the care and use
of animals for research.

Special Training Cited

In addition, Dr. Jones said, two training cen-
ters for post—graduate education of veterinarians
in laboratory animal medicine have recently

, been set up—one by Dr. Thomas B. Clarkson at

the Bowman-Gray School of Medicine at Winston-
Salem, NC, and the other by Dr. Bennett J.
Cohen at the Medical Center of the University
of California in Los Angeles.

Formal instruction in laboratory animal medi-
cine at both undergraduate and postgraduate
levels is in preparation at several schools of vet-
erinary medicine.

“We do not believe,” Dr. Jones asserted, “that
humane attitudes can be ‘legislated’ into the hu-
man mind.”

Other groups opposing legislation aimed at
regulation of research animal programs include:
The National Society for Medical Research, Illi-
nois Society for Medical Research, Association of
American Medical Colleges, American Associa-
tion of Land Grant Colleges and State Univer-
sities, and the American Heart Association.

 

 

discussions of the individual eyes of the dog, cat,

horse, cow, sheep, pig, goat and rabbit. The

clarity and completeness of this material pre- »
sented leaves little to be questioned on the part

of the reader as to the writers meaning

The illustrations used throughout the book are;
excellent Muscles vessels and nerves clearly->1
I;_»j'labelled,. have in any easesbeen ;, _
ourately superimposed over .a ph,”ra "
- ~ que allows the reader to see fir. ..
these structures in their true relationsinp With . " I
out having to pore over actual dissection photoy-

  

   

5 tech

graphs.

It would have been helpful to the researcher
to know the number of animals used to obtain
the figures given as measurements for such
structures as corneal and retinal thickness and
glandular duct diameters.

This ommission, however, in no way detracts
from the objective of the book, that of present-
ing material “. . . necessary for the teaching of
students of veterinary medicine, for devising
successful ophthalmic surgery . . . and as a basis
for laboratory experimentation in the field of
ophthalmology.”

J. Thomas B‘ell, Jr., D.V.M.,
Anatomy Department
College of Veterinary Medicine
Michigan State University
East Lansing, Mich.

PILD.

 

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch tremendous

role

to promote veterinary knowl-
edge. Dr. Rush also is credited

agriculture

ITHACA, N.Y.——Practicing phy-
sicians and veterinary practition-
ers will join forces in increasing
numbers in the future, it was
predicted re-
cently by Dr.
Norman S.
Moore, presi-
dent of the
Medical Soci-
ety of New
York State.
He spoke
- ...,...;.;.;.;:;, f rom a r1 C h
Dr. Moore
veterinary medicine, absorbed
throughout his childhood and
youth from his father, the famed
Veranus A. Moore, veterinary
educator and one—time dean of
The College of Veterinary Medi-
cine here.
Dr. Moore recently told the
New York State Veteiinary
Medical Society that although
the veterinary practitioner has

    

 

 

‘ "a thorough understanding or the

background of.

 

plays in our economy, new de-
velopments make it imperative
that physicians, too, understand
this development.

To this end, he said, not only
teachers and public health com-
ponents of the two professions,
but practicing doctors will be
working together more.

In the interests of public
health, he said, veterinarians
must serve as
alert to disease not observed in
animals before.

MD Contributions Cited

Pointing to mutual contribu-
tions which physicians and vet-
erinarians have made histori-
cally to each other’s work, he re-
called medical men such as Jac—
ques de Solleysel who, in 1664,
showed that glanders could be
transmitted from horse to horse.

He noted also that Dr. Ben-
jamin Rush, famed physician of
revolutionary days, was honored
in Philadelphia in 1806 for a plan

“minutemen”—-

 

with having sparked the idea,
adopted years after his death, of
establishing a veterinary depart-
ment at the University of Penn-
sylvania Medical School.

Dr. Moore cited Frederick Lof-'
ﬂer. MD, who, in 1882, described
the baccilus which caused swine
erysipelas and glanders in
horses.

Among veterinarians who have
helped advance human medicine
in the past, Dr. Moore singled
out Dr. Leonard Pearson, who
demonstrated that Koch’s tuber-
culin reaction test had diagnostic
value, after its therapeutic
theory was proved false.

Dr. Kilbourne, of Texas fever
fame, with Dr. de Schwentiz,
both from the Bureau of Animal
Industry, demonstrated that the
Mallein test, an allergic test,
could diagnose glanders in
horses, thus helping advance the
use of skin tests in diagnosis.

  

 
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
      
  
    
      
  
   
  
    
   
   
   
         
          
         
          
      
        
      
     
      
   
       
             
         
   
     
    
    
     
       
     
     
      
       
     
    
     
      
     
    
    
    
   
     
     
   
    
       




 

Page Eight

VETERINARY DISPATCH

DVM’S Charged With Care

Of Ham, All ‘Chi

(Continued from page 1)

part of the Air Force Missile De-
velopment Center here.

It became the speciﬁc respon-
sibility of veterinarians to select
a Pan troglodyte chimpanzee for
the precedent-making assign-
ment, out of an animal colony of
more than 400 individual subjects
ranging through nine separate
species, after a meticulous
process of elimination,

Thus, after Ham was chosen,
he remained the special charge
of the Veterinary Services
Branch of the Laboratory.

Specialized Competence

In a recent interview with
VETERINARY DISPATCH, Ma-
jor Mosely explained that the
vital responsibilities assigned to
veterinarians “reflect a recogni-
tion of their highly specialized
competence and experience in
the field of scientiﬁc animal
handhng?

These Air Force DVM’s main-
tain a constant check on the ani-
mals’ well being, environmental
readjustment and subsequent
preparation for any assigned re-
search role, he said.

Thorough Education

“Our veterinarians approach
their work with the animals just
as they would in preparing them
for any large-scale experiment.
Everything that happens must
be carefully documented,” Ma-
jor Mosely noted, “including
thorough evaluation of the ani-
mals before, during and post-
flight.”

 

 

What’s In a Name?

Ham will be three years old
this month.

How did he get his name?

A generally accepted ex-
planation, passed along to
VETERINARY DISPATCH
by a semi-official source,
is that the now famous
“chimponaut” was dubbed
“Ham” from the initials of
his Alma Mater—Holloman-
Aero-Medical Laboratory.

 

 

 

 

TRAINED CHIMPANZEE underg
arian, at Aeromedical Field Laboratory

Major Mosely emphasized that
the absence of any unusual clini-
cal problems “is attributable to
the good judgment and exercise
of personal responsibility on the
part of our veterinarians here.”

The Veterinary S e r v i c e 5
Branch is divided into two sec-
tions—the Vivarium Section and
the Pathology Section.

Nature of the Chimp

The Vivarium Section, Major
Mosely explained, is responsible
chiefly for the housing, care,
feeding, medication and recrea-
tion of the animals. The Path-
ology Section is concerned with
therapeutic and related re-
search matters, he said.

Major Mosely pointed out that
the chimpanzee was chosen
for the large-scale, continuing re-
search program because of its

physical, temperamental and
metabolical resemblances to
man.

In addition, the chimpanzee,

before starting series

mponauts

 

9

___‘

generally, is conceded to be the
“egghead” of the non-human ani-
mal kingdom, noted for its re-
sourcefulness, intelligence and
extrovert characteristics -— the
type that could cooperate most
readily in th role of “stand-in”
for the human astronaut.

Throughout his long training,
Ham, like the others used in bio-
medical research at the Labora-
tory, enjoyed a maximum level
of dietary and clinical care.

Meticulous Care

In addition to the punctilious
routine of prescribed meals and
hours of “work,” Ham was
brought twice daily to the Vivar-
ium examination room for a
thorough physical checkup. This
consisted of taking his tempera
ture, measuring pulse, respira-
tion rates and blood pressure,
checking teeth, ears, eyes and
daily weight.

Veterinary and other medical
technicians work with their ani-
mal charges on “an intimate
daily basis”——clothing them in
their “space suits,” observing test
results, running psychomotor or
chamber experiments, even
soothing them out of temper tan-
trums which “seemed to occur
about as often as they would
with children of the same age.”

In the handling of the animals
here, all personnel observe es-
tablished veterinary standards of
humane treatment, adhering also
to guidelines set down by the
American Medical Association.

 

oes routine physical checkuApmby-I'Capt. Jerry Fineg, veterin-

   

of space biology research tests.

 
   

LT. ELDON D. MIKSCH, U. S. Airforce veterinarian, completes

.........

   

arianl) remmdsliclinical data on
to psychomotor tests.

"' at:
LT. WM. E. BRITZ, veterin
chimp seated in restraint chair prior

403%??-

         
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
     
 
       
 
 
  
 

........

 
 
   
 
   

step in daily checkup of candidate in-training for space flight.

ﬂ

'- u- .
<4?

“BREAKFAST for would-be ‘chimponaut’:
Juice, other nourishing items, served personally by Capt. Fineg.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2:: g
Vol. 3, No. 2 In This Issue March, 1961 V

ETERINARY DISPATCH
Closer Link Forged by AVMA and AMA 1 TheNewsaer fth Vt . . U'S'P05‘ag°
‘Chimponauts’—DVM Assignment ........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. l p p 0 e e ermary Profession PAID
Nomenclature of Leukemia Is Clarified ..... . . . . . . . . . -. . . . . . . . l 3 West 5 , , .
African Livestock Diseases Threaten Invasion of U. S. . . . . .. 1 7th St, New York 19’ N' Y’ Jersey C‘ty’ N' J'
Virology Gains Held ‘Exciting’ ........... . ................ .. 1 Permit No. 1500
Heart Ailments Seen Averted by Control of Inflammatory Ills. . 1
Sex of Unborn Calves Reported Predictable ................ .. 2 , .
Capping Believed Prolonging Life ....................... 2 it
Blood Substance Is Weighed As Factor in Radiation Deaths. . . .. 2 .,
Toxic Effects Traced to Most Forage Species ................ 2 i
Many Fetal Anomalies Produced in Sows Deprived of Vitamin A 3 g
Anaplasmosis Control Called ‘A Possibility’ ...... .. .......... 3
Non-Emergency Procedures Advised in Head Injury Cases. . .. 3
New Clues to Seizures Are Probed ...................... 4
Auxiliary Sets Special Drive for Research .................. 6
DVM’s Alerted to Key Role in Radiological Disasters ....... . 6 °
Science vs. Animal Care Statutes ............................ 7
United in Battle Against Disease ............................ 7
In The Editor’s Mail .......................... . . ............ 7
Current Books ..... 7

 

 




 

 

,2.

“"W

 

ETERINARY DISPATCH

The Newspaper of the Veterinary Profession

N01. 3, No. 3

“-_~. _ .. .I ,K_MM—»—-—.,-A ,__.__ _

Copyright © 1961,
Scherlng Corporation. All rights reserved.

Ribicoff Urged
To Create High
Post for DVM

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

CHICAGO —— The American
Veterinary Medical Association
has called upon the U.S. Depart-
ment of Health, Education and
Welfare to give increased recog-
nition to the profession’s role in
advancing the nation’s health,

Published monthly as a service to the veterinary profession by
Veterinary Dispatch Publishing Co. Inc. for the Schering Corp.

A pril-M (1y I 961

Canine Blood

Trans fusions’
Given to Cats

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

MIAMI, Fla—“Many a cat's
life can be saved in an emer- ,
gency by a transfusion of dog’s *
blood," according to a veteran f
small—animal practitioner who l
reports good results in 62 such ‘
procedures over the past 15
months.

 

 

 

 

science and economy.

During a recent conference
with Welfare Secretary Abraham
A. Ribicoff, AVMA leaders pro-
posed, among other things:

9 Elevation of the Veterinary
Medical Branch of the FDA to
the status of a Division of Vet—
erinary Medicine.

0 Appointment of a Chief
Veterinary Officer to act as staff
advisor to the Surgeon General
on national and international
matters involving the profes-
sion’s growing responsibility for
the protection of public health.

0 Action to curb “the dangers
of indiscriminate use of many
pharmaceuticals and biologicals”
"by untrained persons in the
livestock industry.

Dangers Cited

The AVMA spokesman told
Secretary Ribicoff that the prac-
tice permitting owners to “medi-
cate animal property as they
please interferes with disease
reporting and subjects the pub-
-.:_;- ., mac.-

' 1-
.

DR. JAMES H. YARBOROUGH holds one of the greyhound donors he has been using for blood

 

transfusions in cats. Shown also is first feline to receive dog blood transfusion in January, 1960.

 

 

Survey of 60 DVM Hospitals
Highlights Management Needs

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

GAINSVILLE, Fla.-——A scien—
tific management study of more
than 60 veterinary hospitals
and clinics in Florida—the ﬁrst
comprehensive survey of its

 

eumﬂlatlbn of: rem ties in the
tissues of food producing ani-

 

 

revealed

 

 

.xaeetatevvlde beers—42215;.
“Important areas in»

\

nance of a high level of patient
care in addition to “proﬁtable
operation,” were the following:

0 Assurance of adequate num-
bers of flre extingulshers and

ported by practice drills, for

providing a written plan Supt

 

Hip Dysplasia Study
Will Probe Pathology

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

ST. LOUIS, Mo.——-The fac-
tors which produce hip dys-
plasia are known, and appear
to be analogous in animals
and man, but the pathology
of the disease has never been
adequately studied.

This view was expressed
here by Dr. Wayne H. Riser
during an international sym-

Interviewed at his hospital
here—one of the largest in the
south—Dr. James H. Yarborough
told VETERINARY DISPATCH
he is the first veterinarian, as
far as he knows, to have ate
tempted this approach.

The sick and injured cats to
which he gave dog’s blood, he
said. have included victims of
hookworm, anemia, bite wounds,
animals struck by cars, and some
ailing from metritis and enter-
itis.

No Adverse Effects

Of the 62, there were only two
deaths in the first 48 hours after
the transfusions, Dr. Yarborough
said, but these casualties “were
attributable to the severity of
the specific condition, and not
to the blood.” The remaining 60
all had good recoveries, he de~
clared, shovVing no adverse ef-
fects such as anaphylactic shock,
hives; increase in temperature,
bilirubin in the urine or depres
sion..

The value of using dog blood

.‘ . Viv-1"
w/i

, .--\~.._

The veterinary delegation was This unqualiﬁed conclusion of ﬁre or other disaster. dics, held during the recent said. “There usually is no cgat

Composed of AVMA President
E. E. Leasure, Executive Board
Chairman Jack O. Knowles,
President-elect Mark L. Morris,
Executive Secretary Harry E.
Kingman and General (ret.)

(Continued on page 3)

 

K

Latest on Distemper:

 

was reported to the recent an-
nual Florida Conference for
Veterinarians here by the man
who headed the team of “fact-
ﬁnders and advisers” that con-
ducted the study—Mr. Sanford
K. Bronstein, administrator of
the Cedars of Lebanon Hospital
in Miami.

The project was initiated four
years ago by the Florida State

Knowles, chairman of the study

0 Establishment of a prede-
termined wage table; automatic
raises make for steady, reliable
workers. Savings can be sub—
stantial since 70 per cent of the
operational cost goes for person-
nel, and
costs the equivalent of three
months salary before becoming
effective.”

0 A system of audit controls
to discourage temptation and

“each new employee,

 

 

annual meeting of the Amer-
ican Animal Hospital Asso-
ciation.

Dr. Riser is currently inves-
tigating the problem of hip
dysplasia at the Armed
Forces Institute of Patholo-
gy, under a grant from the
National Institutes of Health.
He is on leave from the staff
of Northwestern University
Medical School to pursue this

blood available in most animal
hospitals. In an emergency situa-
tion, a donor cat has to be
found, anesthetized and bled
from the heart,” he explained.
Greyhound Blood Used
“Occasionally," he added, “the
donor dies, and the amount of
blood obtained is insufficient."
Dog blood, on the other hand,
is easily obtainable from the

 

 

 

O O . _
Immunlzathﬂ X33213ni¥e Mggéigghgssogflatgll carelessness. Written receipts special study. animal's jugular vein, without
William E. Jackson, then presi- should be mandatory, per1od1c Dr. Riser’s observations harm to .the donor, .he pointed
Tied to Tlmlng dent, who has been working spot checks should be made of of hip dysplasia came am. out. In his own hospital, having
closely with Dr. J ack '0. (Continued on page 7) (Continued on page 2) (Continued on page 3)

Dr. H. C. Stephenson

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

ITHACA, N. Y.———The key to
effective vaccination against dis-
temper lies in “making use of
our ability to determine when a
puppy is ready for vaccination,
and repeating the procedure
annually.”

This statement was made to
VETERINARY DISPATCH by
Dr.Hadley C. Stephenson, Con-
sultant to the Cornell Research
Laboratory for Diseases of Dogs,
in an interview on the latest
thinking on distemper.

Controlling factors in a
puppy’s response to vaccination
are the age of the animal and

(Continued on page 5)

 

program, and with Mr. Bron-
stein since the survey started
Better Patient Care

Results of the study, Mr.
Bronstein declared, constitute
“a challenge to veterinarians to
organize and administer their
professional functions more ef-
ﬁciently for the improvement
of patient care as well as the
advancement of their own self
interest.”

The management study team
made a thoroughgoing evalua—
tion of each hospital's physical
plant, office procedures, person—
nel policy, methods of cash and
inventory control, patient and
client relationships, compliance
with legal and safety regula-
tions, and other important
facets of administration. Find-
ings, in each case, were reported
jointly to the veterinarian con-
cerned and to the State Veter—
inary Medical Association, Mr.
Bronstein said.

Among the recommendations
which Mr. Bronstein cited as
“imperative” for the mainte-

War on Face F ly

WASHINGTON —— New strides
toward controlling the face ﬂy
are expected here as the result
of new laboratory methods for
rearing the pests

Researchers are now studying

 

i an eight generation insect colony.

 

Control Prospects Brighter

 

Bile Is Implicated m Coccidiosis

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

BELTVILLE, Md. —- Prospects
for effective control of coccidi-
osis in poultry and livestock have
been brightened by basic re-
search findings here that ex-
plain the hatching mechanism of
coccidial cysts.

Parasitologists of the USDA’s
Agricultural Research Center re-
cently were able to induce hatch-
ing of coccidial cysts in the labo-
ratory after treating them with
enzyme and bile.

Two—way Control

The implication of bile, accord-
ing to a USDA report, provides a
more plausible explanation for
the hatching of the coccidial
parasites than that held for
more than half a century—that
trypsin, an enzyme of the pan-
creas, was the responsible agent.

Thenew findings, described by
Dr. John C. Lotze and Mr. Robert
G. Leek, ARS researchers, may
pave the way for a two-pronged
attack on the costly disease: con-
trol within the host by drugs
that would interfere with
hatching action, and control out—
side the host by the use of en-
zyme-like substances as sprays t0

(Continued on page 2)

 

 

“WOOL BREAKING” in sheep, a consequence of coccidiosis in-
fection, is demonstrated by Dr. John Lotze, USDA parasitologist.

,1 > A‘ W .__~.. _ p _
—' V "*“""““‘Mv—", "

 




, Page Two

Eebraska Findings Applied ' . ‘
Disease -Free Rearing

Shows New Hog Gains

Special to Veterinary Dispatch ,

ITHACA, N.Y.—-—The “disease-free pig” method of deliver-
ing and raising swine represents “a new breakthrough” in
preventing multi-million dollar losses caused by porcine
H. Quin,

diseases, Abner

D.V.M., of Kansas City, Mo,
told a recent conference for vet—
erinarians at Cornell University.
"Nation-wide, almost a third
of baby pigs never live to reach
market or breeding age,” he
said. “Death losses of baby pigs
alone have been estimated to
cost about $400,000,000 annually.”
Dr. Quin described the “dis-
ease—free pig” method, developed
by University of Nebraska veteri-
nary scientists, as a new swine
repopulation approach, aimed
particularly at “replacing breed-
ing stock on farms where disease
problems have curtailed proﬁt—
able husbandry.”
Procedure Described
Explaining the procedure and
its practical application, he told
how sows are selected a few days
before farrowing and shipped to
one of 25 regional Speciﬁc Patho-
gen Free (S. P. F.) Pig Labora-
tories. Aging sows are selected,
he noted, because it is necessary
to; sacriﬁce them; they are
slaughtered after the operation.
-;The entire uterus is removed
intact and rolled into a sterile
chamber, where each pig is
placed in a sterile carrying box.
" The pigs are then taken to
_ sterilized rooms and kept for a
week in individual boxes called
“‘Horsfall Units,” each with its
"own feeding pan and exhaust
air vent. There they are fed a,
synthetic ration of fortified
cow’s milk, Dr. Quin said The

VETERINARY DISPATCH.

 

 

 

Coccidiosis

(Continued from page 1)

destroy the protective coverings
of coccidial parasites in forage,
feed or water.

The disease is responsible for
losses to livestock and poultry
owners estimated at $50 million
annually.

Severely affected animals be-
come unthrifty, fail to grow and
may die. In sheep, this disease
may also cause wool-breaking, a
condition in which the wool be-
comes thinned and readily
breaks off.

 

 

 

:results probably apply to all the

 

pigs are then transferred to an-

oﬁi‘eu steriie noting»; _ .

weeks, 11111.11 they are weaned.
Breeding Stock

The pigs are returned to the
farm. to mature, he continued,
but are completely isolated from
other hogs. Uponfmaturity, they.
Serve as first generation replace-
ment breeder stock for the home
farm or other breeders. ‘

Data thus far indicate that
the pigs have lower death losses,
better feed conversion efficiency
and reach market weight as
much as a month earlier on 10

- per cent less total feed, Dr. Quin
declared. .

This kind of program, he
stated, will contribute heavily to
the increased production of hogs
necessary to meet our expand-
ing population.

   

 

atlases»

thought, it is poSsible, the USDA

The investigators first studied
natural hatching of the parasites
in sheep which were raised in

Circus Veterinarian Checks on a Patient

 

DR. J. Y HENDERSON, DYM at Ringling Bros. Circus, examines I
camel with black eye. Therapy includes sterile milk injections.

 

isolation to prevent natural in-

 

fection. Then they found that
the hatching process could be
started by incubating infective
cysts for several hours in the
bile of sheep, goats, swine, rab—
bits, cattle, chickens or turkeys.
Enzymatic Changes

Further research showed that
human, or sheep saliva, or a com-
mercially prepared e n z y m e,

Indiana Guernsey Association

 

caused changes in the cysts that

 

allowed the parasites to start
hatching within minutes after
the cysts came in contact with
bile.

Although the investigation was
done primarily with sheep, Dr.
Lotze and Mr. Leek believe the

Award Winners
Special to Veterinary Dispatch
MONTREAL, Que. —— Four

graduating students of Can-
ada’s two veterinary colleges
were recently honored with

 

Hoosier Breeders and DVM’s

Join Forces Against Mastitis

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

LAFAYETTE, In.d.——Twenty—seven breeder—members of the

who produce milk for this area

have indicated their intention to participate in a joint effort

“sponsored by the Indiana Mas-
titis Control Program Com-

mittee. »

The plan was described by Dr.
Fred A. Hall, Purdue extension
veterinarian, to VETERINARY
DISPATCH in a recent interview.

 

Winners at the —- Ontario
Vet erinary College, in ,
zGuelph, were Messrs. James
Mills and Robert Curtis. Sim-
ilarly cited at the St. Hya-
cinthe Veterinary School
'were Messrs. Jules Rivard
and Louis Rolland.

The awards were presented

at both schools by Mr. Hugh

, A. McFarlane, Manager, Ani-
mal Health Products‘Division
of Schering Corporation Lim-
ited. ,

Another award, presented
by the Canadian Journal of
Comparative Medicine, went
to Mr. James Robertson, of

scientists say, for . .coccidia in .
sheep to attack other animals.
It is pointed out that sheep may
carry the infective cysts on their
feet or bodies to other suscep-
tible hosts.

Cysts Described

Coccidia also are carried in the
digestive tract and. are trans-
'mitted in cysts through the
droppings of the host.

The parasite in the cyst is
free-living and ,microscopic in
size. The cyst wall consists of a
very tough membrane or menu--
branes, which protect the para-
site and enable it to survive for
long periods outsidethe body of

 

 

 

the host. , Ontario Veterinary College.

Schering Veterinary Awards, He estimated that mastitis
,higher‘ vertebrate hosts of eoc- 3”, - . , nnctg the dairy-..1ndus,; , 1
, .. 1 l «93me ~10“ veterinary medi-‘ million annually and caliedriﬁ

Contrary to What is commonly ting “the most serious disease prob-

lem of the industry and one of
the least understood and least
accurately controlled.”

Two Considerations

Though Dr. Hall did not deal
with the treatment of clinical
mastitis, he- said a paramount
problem are the toxins of staph-
ylococci which are increasing
in milk and which pasteurization
does not remove. However, these
toxins have been conveyed even
into cheese and dry milk and
caused food poison, Dr. Hall said.-

mastitis must take into account
two facts, Dr. Hall asserted:

0The greater occurrence of
adverse sensitivity to antibiotics.

0 The danger of impairing the

 

 

 

New Study Set for Hip Dysplasia

quality of milk by ill-advised
mastitis controls.

There is an immediate oppor-
tunity for the veterinary profes-

 

(Contz‘nued from page 1) 4
ing a trans-Atlantic discussion—-
the first of its kind in veterinary
medicine—in which four panel-
ists at the AAHA, in session here,
talked back and forth with four
colleagues of the British Small
Animal Veterinary Association in
London. Voices were amplified,
and duplicate sets of slides were
projected simultaneously for the
American and British audiences.

The problem of hip dysplasia
occupied special attention be—
cause of its prevalence in dogs,
in other animal species, as well
as in humans. (In New York
alone, nearly four out of every
100,000 babies are born with some
degree of hip dysplasia.)

Sentry Dogs Used
: Because of the costly incidence
of the disease found in dogs used
for guard duty at U. S. military
installations. throughout th e
world, the Armed Forces Insti-
tute of Pathology is arranging to
make sentry dogs available for:
D1"- Riser’ s investigation -

Ut: 112mg diagnostic criteria for
h p dysplasia established recent-
Ly by the .AVMA, a. team of which
111 Riser is a mmnber, will pub-

meeting. Shown, left to right, in St. Louis (below): Drs. G. B.
Schn'elle, W. 0. Brinker, -W. H. Riser, J. Jenny. In London, rcp-
presenting the British Small Animal Veterinary Assn. (above):

Dr. H. Moltzen, Mr. D. Lawson, Mr. G. Knight, Mr. B. Singleton.

 

lish .abrochure Which Will c0111 and interpretation of the plate.
tain advice on positioning of the j
animal for X-ray examination,
on equipment and on develOping

 

 

I'laZIIS.

‘I/ﬂ4

\ .

\l
\‘

 

TRANS-ATLANTIC panels exchange views during recent AAHA- I

The brochure will then be
made available to all veterina—

sion to undertake a broad pro-
gram for mastitis control that
would supplant the farmers’ do-
it-yourself antibiotic treatment
of acute mastitis cases, Dr. Hall
stated.

Cautions on Antibiotics

He cited ﬁgures that farmers
use 20 million infusion treat-
ments annually to treat mastitis
while veterinarians use only six
million. The promiscuous use Of
antibiotics is productive of ef—
fects more harmful than bene-
ficial, in Dr. Hall’s View.

Dr. Hall recommended that
mastitis control go deeper than
disease treatment and embrace
herd management, correct milk-
ing procedures and constant. sur-
veillance of new cases, all under
Veterinary supervision.

‘Horstel’ on U.S. 66

ALBUQUERQUE, NM. —— Local
veterinarians are on callto a
new equine ‘motel’ built on the
New Mexico State Fair grounds,
for horses in transit along US.
Route 66.-

Attendants are on 24- hour duty
for animals travelling the fa-

 

 

Campaigns for eradication of ,

April-May 1961- ..

O
I Editor ’3 Note

The product statement of
directions inserted in this
issue of VETERINARY.
DISPATCH is made in com-
pliance with recent rulings
0f the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration.

Pharmaceutical manufac-
turers are required to make
their promotional literature ~
conform closely to the prod- *
uct description in their
package enclosures, present-
ing in detail the possible side
e f f e c t s, contraindications

and dosage recommenda-
tion.

 

ﬂ

Discount Deer
As Reservoir

Of Brucelleae

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

and mule deer should be dis-
counted as a signiﬁcant reser-
voir of brucellosis, according to
results of a national survey re-
ported by Dr. L. D. Fay of the
Michigan Department of Con-
servation.

He told the 26th North Ameri-
can Wildlife and Natural Re1
sources Conference here that the

study revealed the spread of the -

disease from deer to livestock to
be insigniﬁcant.

Survey Findings
'As conspicuous, free-ranging
ruminants frequenting livestock
pasturing areas, deer have long
been suspected of transmitting

brucellosis to cattle. The disease .,
causes an estimated yearly loss

of $100 million through reduced
milk production and loss of
calves.

Dr. Fay conducted a letter sur-

    

”We"

‘in
showed that of nearly 17,000
white-tailed .and mule
tested, only 20 white—tailed deer
would be considered infected if
the results of the tests were in-

terpreted in the same manner as »-

for cattle.

The percentage of reactors in
individual states ranged from
none in 14 states to approxi-,
mately 0.6 per cent in two states.

Rarity in Deer

The Michigan conservationist
noted the highest incidence of

reactors was among deer in the '

southeastern states. “It may be
signiﬁcant,” he commented,
“that these same states have
lagged behind in the current na-
tional brucellosis program.”

Transmission of the, disease
also is less likely where cattle

are dispersed, as on the open

range, he added.

From the present data, Dr.
Fay said, “I believe we are jus-
tified in concluding that bru-

cellosis is a comparatively rare?

disease in deer of the United
States, and that it is an unim—
portant disease from the stan.d-'
point of the health of the deer,
or deer as a reservoir of infection
to livestock.

 

V ETERINARY DISPATCH

The Newspaper
of the Veterinary Profession

VETERINARY DISPATCH is
published monthly for Schering
Corporation, Bloomfield, N. J.,
by Veterinary Dispatch Pub-
lishing 00., Inc., 3 West 57th
St, New York 19, N Y. as a
service to veterinarians.

The contents of VETERINARY
DISPATCH are determined bY
an independent board of 11111013.
and do not necessarily refleCt'.
the views of Schering Cinora-
tion or its particular interests as

apharmaceutical company.

All correspondence should be”
addressed to VETERINARY DIS— 1'
PATCH, 3 West '57th'v 815:,
York . 11.9, ' N1. -' Y. ‘

 

 

 

mous east—west highway. ~

PLaza 1-5343.

, WASHINGTON —. White—tailed ‘

deer ' Replies 7;“

deer-.

: New ’*'
a-Telephonei.

 




grit-May 1961

VE'IERINARY DISPATCH

. : Page ”If:

Herd Studies Yield Clues to Bovine Leukemia

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.—
“There is some indication that
the incidence of leukemia (lym-
phosarcoma), the most common
neoplasm of cattle, is increas-
ing,” according to Dr. Robert R.
Marshak, professor of medicine
at the University of Pennsyl-
vania School of Veterinary Medi-
cme.

He noted that the mean in-
cidence of the tumor in 1957-1959
was approximately one in every
5,700 cattle brought to slaughter
in federally inspected abattoirs.
The increase currently observed,
Dr. Marshak said, “appears to be
an absolute ~one—-—-over and above
what might be accounted for on
the basis of more accurate recog-
nition. ’~"

Speaking to an American Can-
cer Society seminar, for science
Writers, held here recently, Dr.
MarShak described long-range
studies of immunization, and an
investigation into the possibility
that bovine leukemia is caused
by a virus.

4

y

 

 

 

Dr. Robert R. Marshak

Several large purebred herds
of cattle with a high incidence
of leukemia in genetically relat-
ed animals have been made
available to the school for these
long- -term experimental studies,
he said

 

“In such herds, the appearance

Rise 1n Harness Sports
Spurs Equine Practice

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

 

PHILADELPHIA—The day of
the “horse doctor” is returning
to the State of Pennsylvania, but
the retired veterinarian whose
best days were spent “ﬁring”
his buggy- pulling patients will
not recognize the practice except

created will attract large num-
bers of men from out of state.
' “Group practices will increase
rapidly in this state, and new
large, animal clinics will be
established in the general area
of the tracks. This will be good

of affected animalsin certain
cow families and their absence
in others is striking," D1. Mar-
shak noted.

He described an instance in
which a cow had two affected
daughters, one of which also had
an affected daughter, with all
those affected traced at least
once in five generations to each
of two common ancestors.

Familial Susceptibility

“Of particular interest,” he
said, “is the observation that the
affected families are relatively
small in number, as compared to
other families in the same herd
in which no leukemia cases have
occurred. ”

In another Jersey herd, seven
verified cases of leukemia were
found in less than four years. Of
these, four were daughters of
Bull A, two were sired by a son
of Bull A and the remaining one
was a daughter of one of the
affected daughters of Bull A,
sired by Bull B.

To date, Bull B has produced

 

no other affected animals de-
spite his widespreaduse in the
herd, and the presence of over
20 of his daughters and many
second and third generation de-
scendants, said Dr. Marshak.

“This kind of information is
quite suggestive of a familial
aggregation of cases and would
be consistent with a single-factor
autosomal recessive inheritance
of susceptibility,” Dr. Marshak
declared.

“On the other hand,” he said,
“it is equally compatible with a
concept of vertical transmission
of an infectious agent, as in the
case of murine leukemia.”

Immunization Probed

Dr. Marshak described a long-
term immunization p r oj e c t
against bovine leukemia insti-
tuted in two herds with a. spon-
toneous high incidence of
the disease.

Every herd was divided into
two groups, each group contain—
ing an equal number of animals
from blood lines with a high in-

 

 

 

 

AA

cidence of leukemia. One group
was injected with a crude tissue
vaccine and the other desig-
nated as controls.

The animals were injected in-
tramuscularly with 10 ml. of vac~

cine once a month for four doses.

They will be observed clinically
f01 five to 10 years and periodic
blood counts will be made at six-
month intervals.

Virus Possible Cause

Another phase of the study, in
collaboration with the South
Jersey Medical Research Foun-
dation, Camden, N. J. is de-
signed to investigate the possi-
bility that the cause of bovine
leukemia is a virus As part of
this investigation efforts are be-
ing made to isolate a potential
etiologic agent.

Experimental transmission of
the disease also is being attempt-
ed in newborn calves, infant and
adult mice of high and low spon-
taneous 1e 11 k e m i a incidence,
hamste1s embiyonated chicken
eggs and cell culture lines.

Anti - Fertility

Substances in

Plants Probed

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

VANCOUVER, BC ——A long»
range detecting assignment 1113
been undertaken by a group of
scientists to discover what sub—
stances in certain plants and

trees possess anti—fertility prop—-

ert‘es for animals.

Heading the research team is
Dr. Warren Kitts, associate pro—-
fessor of animal husbandry at
the University of British Colum-
bia. The project was made pos- , .
_.sible byw a grant from the Pope? ‘
lation Council Inc, 0f N e‘ﬁ
York, a non-proﬁt organization
which supports research into the ,
relation of populations to cul—
tural and material resources.

One of the difﬁculties faced by

1’01 the animal involved
Dr. Charles Raker, a specialist

in large animal surgery and pro-
fessor of surgery at the Univer—
sity of Pennsylvania School of
Veterinary Medicine, is enthusi—

. ,astic about what the advent of

for the profession, for veteri-
nary. medical education, and
most deﬁnitely for the patients
and clients,” Dr. Raker declared.

Greater Specialization ,

Dr. Arthur Patterson, 11 large
animaigspgciahst sees two prin-
spate/arisesC «of: veterinary devel—
0pment resulting from the re—
surgence of interest in the
horse: the actual track practice, '
and the breeding farm.

“Equine gynecology will soon

 

 

 

 

_ areas of the State W111 do
for the beneﬁt of the horse as.
well as his veterinarian. _
“Great advances have been
made in treating equine ailments

in the past ten years,” he said
in a recent interview with
VETERINARY DISPATCH, “and
practitioners who want to be in a
position to be called on by stand-
ard bred owners for medical serv-
ice of their animals will have to
start brushing up now on these
developments.

Opportunities Seen

“The owners are going to look

for the best qualiﬁed men,” he
pointed out, “and the establish—
ment of a track in an area such
as Philadelphia is going to offer
some real opportunities for the
prepared veterinarian.”
_ Dr. Raker estimated that if, for
example, two tracks are set
, up;in the Philadelphia area, they
_ .Will attiact more than 700‘ horses
,1 and related establishments such.
as breeding farms, training
farms, and recuperative facili-
ties.

In recent years more and more
yeterinarians, as well as stu—
dents, have been showing re—
newed professional interest in
the horse, he noted, citing the
growth of the young American
Association of Equine Practi-
tioners to a current membership
of 450 as evidence of this in-
terest.

New Approaches

Veterinarians will almost have
to go back to school to be
brought up to date on thera-
peutic advances, he said. Man-
agement 0fhorse problems has
changed greatly with the intro-
duction and application of ste-
roids, ultrasonic therapy, dia-
thermy, and X-ray for lameness.
Research
disease has also advanced the
welfare of the horse, he added.

Dr. Raker predicted that
thoroughbred racing will soon

i .- follow. the. introduction. of har- -

' nessaracing inthis state. “The .in-
creasing: professional needs thus

in drugs and heart

be recognized as a deﬁnite sub-
specialty,” he predicted.

“The tremendous investments
by owners in standardbreds and
thoroughbreds will require that
the veterinarian be especially
well prepared ' in the
developments in breeding and
gynecological problems of mares.”

Dr. Patterson said new meth-
ods of determining the most
effective time for breeding are
under study at Hanover Shoe
Farms, where he is attending
veterinarian.

Drs. Raker and Patterson both
agreed that the increase in
popularity of racing and other
equine sports will make horses
a common sight choc again

however,” Dr.

all breeders will be constantly

tion. The responsibility and
credit will belong to the veteri-
narian.”

RibiCoff Urged“
(Continued from page 1)

J. A. McCallam, the Association’s
WashingtOn representative.

In another area of national
concern, the Association issued
a memorandum in support of
the'National HOg Cholera Com~
mittee’s eradication program.
All constituent veterinary medi-
cal associations are being urged
“to familiarize theirentire mem-
berships with the program and
to support its adoption and
execution.”

The significance of the pro-
gram was underscored by the
observation, in anAVMA report,

 

tural press, no disease has re-
ceived more space in the past 12
months than hog cholera.” .-

 

 

latest 7

'in them)
been usmg greyhound blood ex- _

“These will be better horses
= borough gave eight healthy cats

Patterson said
“Breeding will be controlled, and

trying to improve-their produc~ 2*

that “in a review of the agricul- .-

.........................

 

DR. C. W. RAKER, of the U. of Pennsylvania School of Vet-
erinaryMedicine, examines leg of a race horse at animal clinic.

 

(Continued from page 1)
a large, number ofgreyhounds
always ’ available; {the specializes
Dr. Yarborough has

clusrvely for transfus1ons

“There is no reason I can see
why blood frOm Other dogs
should not serve equally well ’
he said.

D1. Yarborough described how
he came to try his new approach.
It allstarted with a chance re-

}mark made to him at a dinner
‘party by Dr. Ralph Sappenfield,

anesthesiologist at Jackson

Memorial "Hospital here.

ing read somewhere that the

 

 

An Oral Estrus Inhibitor
Is Reported for Canines

Special to Veterinary Dispatch
ST. LOUIS, Mo.—Development
of a new oral contraceptive drug

bitch and is said to obviate the
need for spayingi or isolation
during “heat,” was revealed here
at the recent meeting of the
American Animal Hospital Asso-
ciation.

The compound was described
by Dr. Gordon-G. Stocking as .a
synthetic version . of 1 progester-
one. ~ . ~

 

The physician observed hav- '

which acts to delay estrus in the

Cats Are Given Dog Blood

 

Y

 

blood of higher animals could
be used for lower animals, Dr.
Yarborough recalled

The followmg day, Dr Yar-

he had on hand as donors, 10 cc
per pound of greyhound blood.
There was no. clinical reaction of
any kind in the cats that could
be determined.

“We obtained 20 more cats and
repeated the'proce'ss, and again
saw no visible clinical changes
in the animals,” hr. said. '

,Crossmatching Important

Research still needs to be done
to determine how long the trans-
fused blood is retained by the
recipient, Dr. Yarborough said.

He cautioned veterinarians
planning to try his procedure
“not to repeat dog blood trans-
fusions without crossmatching.

“Of course,” he added, “when-
ever and wherever cat blood is
available, that should be the
blood of choice. Otherwise,” he
said, “veterinarians may be able
to save many a cat’s life with
dog blood.”

Working with Dr. Yarborough .

to develop the transfusion tech-
nique have been Drs. Layson T.

Doty, Jack Haggard and Earl

Becker.

liable statistics exist to indicate

 

animals. What is known, he
points out, is that when browsing
cattle of the female species eat
such things as yellow pine
needles or certain forage crops,
the result may be interference
with conception or abortion.
Chemical Identity Sought
Previous research efforts re-
ported by Dr. Kitts and his asso-
ciates have resulted
niques for extracting some of the
anti-fertility chemicals from
native plants.
“Our problem now ” he says,
“is to fractionate the substances
and then describe them ‘ fully.” _
Should the project prove suce
cessful, Dr. Kitts observes, it will
be possible to add other sub—-
stances to‘ the animals’ diet to
counteract the effect of the anti—
fertility chemicals.

 

Comlng Events

May 31, June 1-2 Annual Texas
Conference for Veterinarians,
A & M College of Texas,
Memorial Student Center, Col~
lege Station, Tex.

June 11-13 Annual Conference
for K a n s a s Veterinarians,
Kansas State University, Man-
hattan, Kan. ,

June 13-15 Pennsylvania Veteri-
nary Medical Association, an-
nual convention, Pennsylvania
State University, University
Park. Pa,

June 18-20 Georgia Veterinary
Medical Association, annual.
convention, Jekyll Island, Ga.

June 19-21 North Carolina Vet-
erinary Medical Association,
annual meeting, Morehea—d-
Biltmore Hotel, Morehead. N .‘ .

 

 

 

"1 shaver: it‘s

4 ', ,< 1
i .... , .‘ ~‘ ”’-
, . 1.3%”

the number of cases of infertile

the investigators, according tow
Dr. Kitts, is the fact that no re-

in tech- . -

 




Page Four

 

. « V. " : ' .VV «3,3,1... V ‘ . ‘ , _”,. _ ' .4 - ‘ ‘ ~:. {2“, :.dl,---‘-. ‘3.» A , 1.1.x‘l“"_‘\ ,(_‘.,~‘_'._ l ,‘ ,
arr-l 17:2. ‘- . ,.,, 51‘“ _; _: Til'i: ~ .3 .1' ._ ._.-._: . ,.:‘«~._,,: -, , , __ ,A ,... MW, 1. . ma ”7-,; "33,. ﬁg: ,.:- .» "'e-'~"~?‘ “Er-5% .~—_ f. M_ .‘w e.* 1 o. 4 »:1.. V ({hwr’r. a? , .1213... . - a. A; :1 .r r: _ ,A, . in
. ‘.' "5!. 137‘“: W ' ,' ‘ 43%;»; ~ , "him A v, a 'mw. "jg-g‘aAn-"wv n- u..." ~ ”s zﬁm‘ $1.534: ~-» “.9 ' ‘ ‘ -- 7 ‘ ' ‘ . ' -. \ ,. u. p11 an! we y a!“ ' ‘

" T1? 151‘ '3 I "AK-‘31:" ”797-“ ‘33i'1';$'5v“§( ”'3‘???“ , , .... , “uwvn ,. - r. w —v- v « _ n‘, w '. » - , m}? "7—",‘7‘3‘7 ”‘3. ‘i1‘ ~ A!" Rf” ‘ "x '5 I‘ "' i I

on. ._ 11' A ~_.._ “1‘. :. r
y"; , “5““ -’r.‘-..r“_;>,_ J
"‘SQ," L"

 

, is the problem -— allergy? . ,
inﬂammation? bacterial infection? ,rmgworm?

'order the Schering topicals to meet your needs

------

 

.....................

      

.- .

for allergic and inﬂammatory
skin conditions threatened or
complicated by infection
- METI-DERM® Aerosol with Neomycin
’ ' prednisolone with neomycin sulfate
handy spray-on METI-DERM relieves
itching, steps scratching,
Spread of lesions and self-mutilation

" T ‘ .. for adjunctive treatment of tineas
' . the best way to "round out”
oral antifungal therapy
FULVIDEX® Aerosol;
griseofulvin with undecylenic acid
valuable companion therapy *
for FULVICIN®~preVents spread of infection v
to human beings and pets

   

for "hot spot” ec’zemas, and
. . , nonspeciﬁcweeping-lesions ~

 

 

Ulr’f-k . .- . ‘ 7’ 513-": l ' , "6’“- '?~‘" I -‘ ' ‘ "
. .4 - . , .,'; T ' 9“,"-—’.‘.' ~‘;.".:,". ‘ " ‘ ' " 5. . V " ‘ " " - "‘7
. "—15" ' trek-Mar; AW“1§‘£¢?\1“¥32 -o'. “I, , w <. -' y I

' f senses itching-,lafiosoozing lesioj  pr¢§ght§ “ * ~ -- A
~ self-mutilation and speeds healing

Schering Spring Specials on Skin Preparations
Feature 1/3 Bonus Offers

ORDER ONE ORDER AN ASSORTMENT OF ANY 3 LOTS I

3 dozen METl-DERM Aerosol ‘ T T 1 dozen METl-DERM Aerosol
with Neomycin 50 Gm. : . with ,Neomycin 50 Gm.
3 dozen FULVIDEX Aerosol 50 Gm. 1 dozen FULVIDEX AerOsol 50 Gm.

3 dozen VARITON Cream so Gm. . i 9 K k 1 dozen VARlTON Cream 50 Gm.
6 dozen VARlTON Cream 20 Gm. . ; ' i; 9 2 dozen VARITON'Cream 20 Gm.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I . SELECT oNE LOT FREE % 0R : + * CHOOSE ONE Lot FREE
1 dozen METl-DERM Aerosol , i -1 dozen METl-DERM Aerosol ;
with Neomycin 50 Gm. ‘ with Neomycin 50 Gm. é
‘ 1 dozen FULVIDEX Aerosol 50 Gmr 1 dozen FULVIDEX Aerosol 50 Gm.
1 dozen VARITON Cream 50 Gmr f 1 dozen VARITON Cream 50 Gm,
2 dozen VARlTON Cream 20 Gm. ' 2 dozen VARITON Cream 20 Gm.
‘ ‘ Offers good May III-June 30, 1961 1.:
Your Schering Representative will be calling soon to supply full information on these Spring Specials.
For complete information on these drugs; see special insert in this issue. ' i ‘ ‘
1 4317‘

 

 

 

VETERINARY DISPATCH - ' April-May 1961.

V H .‘ )5 r. , ‘1 z _ ,
. ~ '- ' v _ . "-.‘:‘?"’.j"4“ﬁx‘w‘ "gegrarw— V
__,- —v ,~n gage-y. ',-.--ra-. we? urn—‘ﬁm‘u-ver W-s ‘ "‘

 




 

, pril-MayL I961

Speclal Interview With Dr. H C Stephenson

\

 

; To bring our readers up to date on problems related to thet

VETERINARY DISPATCH

av}

 

dzstemper complex, Dr. Hadley C'. Stephenson, Consultant to the
Cornell Research Laboratory for Diseases of DOgs,, answered the
following questions put to him by VETERINARY DISPATCH;

 

Q. Some veterinarians feel
that our present knowledge of
the distemper complex in dogs
is in a confused state. Is that
correct?

A. One could say yes, but if
we were to take a good look at
some of the facts we now know
about distemper, most of this
confusion would be cleared up.

Q. Would you cite an example
of an important aspect of dis-
temper which should be better
» understood?

A. A most important one is
the transfer of i111munity'from
the mother to the puppy. If the
puppy nuises the ﬁrst day of its
life, within 48 hours it will
show, by blood test, the same
level of immunity against dis—
temper as its mother had.

If thexmother’s immunity is
low, the puppy will have little or
no protection. This puppy im—
munity, received through the
Colostrum, is not self-perpetuat-
ing, like that resrilting from a
live virus vaccine, or from the
disease itself

Q. How longdoes this immum
nity from the mother last?

A. It disappears at the rate of
44 per cent per week. In 85 per
cent-of dogs it will havedis-
appeared by the age of ”nine
‘weeks, and most puppies will
,then be' capable'of ca'tching'dis;
. temper or reacting to a vaccine.
'In some. puppies immunity will
.last only two weeks, in others

three months. In about four per
‘ cent of puppies it will last four
_ months

 

Immuniza- 1011
(Continued from page 1)
the immunity of the mother, he

said.

For more than ten years, Dr.
Stephenson asserted, the Cornell
.Rese-arch Laboratory has been
‘ using a live attenuated dis-
' temper vaccine “because it offers
_ prospects of being the best avail-
able. It cannot produce illness,
. it can produce long—lasting im-
munity, and it can be standard-
' ized for efﬁciency.”

Test Devised

In studying the percentage of
failures to immunize, the Cor-
nell investigators devised a test
which revealed that puppies re-

ceived immunity of varying
amounts from their mothers,
.and the immunity lasted for

different lengths of time.

They foirnd that antibodies
obtained by puppies through the
colostrum—fand this only in the
ﬁrst 12 hours of life— “are not
self- -perpetuating,” Dr Stephen-
son said

“By blood- testing the bitch we
can tell how much immunity the
@11pr will have if it suckles, and
thus predict when it will lose
that immunity and become a
perfect candidate either for
catching distemper or for vacci-
nation,” he declared.

Variables Considered

“By using this test for im-

munity we have taken the guess—

work out "of vaccination,” Dr.
Stephenson said. Nevertheless;
he added, “under ordinary,

everyday conditions, we are c011-
fl‘Orlted with a number of varia-
bles.

“All lots of vaccine may not
contain the optimum amount of
vaccine virus at the time of use.
All dogs are notperfeCt or ideal
dogs for vaccination. The timing
of vaccination, in relation to the
mother’s immunity, and how

much of it she passes on to the.

,puDDy, has its own delicate
variables,” he noted. ‘

   
  
      

«f: J41111111131111ty disappears,

Q. If the level of immunity in
the mother is known, does this
help determine the best time to
vaccinate the puppy?

A. Yes, we could then know
the exact week the puppy would
fully respond to the vaccine-—
whether it would respond to vac-
cination at three weeks, six
weeks, nine weeks, or if we
would have to wait until the
puppy was over three months of
age.

Q. If for some reason the
.puppy does not receive colos-
trum, as after a caesarean opera-
tion, for example, when are
these “orphan” puppies suscep-
tible to distemper?

A. At the age of one to two
weeks, even if the mother car-
ried a high level of immunity
against the disease.

Q. Should we ’aSSume then
that colostrum,is highly impor-

from its mother is ‘to be ob-
tained? , '

A. Yes, but it must be empha-
sized that the amount of im-'
munity received from the mother
determines only the ﬁrst pro-
tection period, the length of
time the puppy is immune, and
exactly when the puppy may get
the “disease; on exposure. '

Q. When is the ideal time to
vaccinate a puppy?
-. :A. That time is within one
week of the disappearance of
the immunity obtained from the
mother. Maternal immunity will

,,‘.,1nterfere with the effect of at

cm.” srseeﬂw‘tm

 

can respond to a vaccine. Why
wait longer? The earlier in life
we can successfully vaccinate
puppies, the less risk of their
catching distemper.

Q. When should distemper
antiserum be used in a vaccina-
tion program?

A. Only when the level of im-
munity in the puppy is not
known. Most of the puppies do
not need it before nine weeks of
age, but many should receive it
earlier than that if the level of
their immunity is not known. If
the puppy is vaccinated in the
week following its loss of ma—

'know that inﬂuence distemper

The , antigenic j potency of each

tant to the puppy if immunity:

“WAFER .
- vaccination annually, with modi—

distemper.

 

ternal immunity antiserum will
not be needed as the puppy is
then ready for vaccination.

Q. Does the use of antiserum
inﬂuence the time of vaccina-
ﬁon?

A. Yes. Immunity given to a
puppy through antiserum is of
the same nature as that given
by the mother through the
colostrum. It disappears at the
same rate as the maternal im-
munity, 44 per cent a week. If
the immunity is high it can
interfere with the antigenic
effect of a vaccine. It must
therefore be at its very lowest
level, or have disappeared en-
irely.

Q. What other facts do we

vaccination results?

A. Antigenicity of the vaccine
used is important. The fact that
this antigenicity can be con—‘
trolled represents a signiﬁcant
advance in the], last ten years.

lot of vaccine can be determined,

and those lots which are not

effective can be discarded; This
is a most important improve-
ment.

Q. Are the-re different types
l-f distemper virus?

A. Extensive research indicates
that any potent antigenic virus
vaccine, given- at the proper
time, will immunize the dog
against any known strain of dis-
temper virus There is no evi-
dence of the existence of more
than one type of distemper.

Q. Are revaccinations at cer-

 
 

ﬂed live virus, is a “must.”

Q. Is there one comprehensive
suggestion on the distemper
problem that you would make?

A. Only the unvaccinated dog
can catch distemperl Only the
unvaccinated dog can spread
To eradicate dis-
temper in dogs ‘we must increase
the number of dogs vaccinated
annually. Atpresent, only ap-
proximately 1.5 million of the
known 26 million dogs in the
United States are vaccinated
each year.

. A New Look at Distemper Control ;

 
 
 
 
   

Page Fig

  
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  

DR. TODD. O. MUNSON demonstrates palpation of l1ver.

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

ATLANTIC CITY—gLiver dis-
ease “is not as complicated a
problem as many suppose, and
deserves greater interest on the
part of the practicing veterinar—
ian,” according to Dr. Todd 0.
Munson, of Angel] Memorial Ani-
mal Hospital in Boston.

“A liver that can be palpated

 
 

Causes Interact "
Referring speciﬁcally to liver
disturbances in small animals,
Dr. Munsbn said effective treat—
ment depends largely on rec-
ognition of clinical differences
between the “two major ana-
tomical types of the disease——
obstructive, and hepatogenous or
hepatocellular.” One form may
contribute to producing the
other, he noted.

The obstructive type, marked
by a disturbance of the bile col—
lecting system and interference
with bile ﬂow, “results in back

 

pressure that in time causes

 

A Diplomat Talks ShoB

 

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

vete1ina1y medicine is a major
social and economic problem in

cause the wealth of that nation
is measured by its livestock.”

‘ This statement was, made with»
the combined authority of a
leading Senegalese statesman,
diplomat and Doctor of Veteri-
nary Medicine —— Ambassador
Ousmane Soce Diop—in an ad-
dress at the banquet of the 1e-
cent annual meeting here of the

of New Jersey.
Emphasis on Prevention

Dr. DiOp, whose career has in-
cluded high offices in his coun-
try, the editorship of a leading
magazine, authorship of two
novels and 15 years of practice
as a veterinarian, is Senegal’s
Rep1ese11tative to the U..N and
Ambassador to the United
States.

Educationally, Dr. Diop said,
veterinarians in Senegal have
always looked to France. Unlike
the practice common in metro-
politan areas, however, the ma-

 

newly independent Senegal “bew'h

Veterinary Medical AssociatiOn‘

 

ATLANTIC CITY. ——- Preventive 1-

  
  

Senegal ’3 Ambassador Is a- DVM

HIS EXCELLENCY, Ambassador Diop, of Senegal, at N. J. vet-
erinary exhibit with Drs. R. Shomer (left) and R. Ticehurst.

 

jor occupation of the Senegalese
veterinarians is the preVention
of epizootic diseases character-
istic of the tropics, he said.
Emphasis, he noted, is on de-
velopment of sera, vaccination
programs and other methods to
combat conditions such as piro—

plasmosis and trypanosomiasis.

Veterinary responsibility, he
said, lies mainly in maintenance
of livestock health, since the
Senegalese, like populations in
other African natio,ns “put their
money into their cattle rathe1
than into banks.”

 

  

‘Liver That Can Be Palpated’t'

Reveals Presence of Disease“

A

Y

damage to the liver cells” he
explained.
“On the other hand, ” he add-.

acteristic of hepatogenous d13-
ease—may crowd and. block the"?
bile canals, producing the obf
structive type. ” . >
' Outlined

 

..tain intervals desirable? is a diseased liver,” he declared Differences
- A. Critical experimental work durmg a symposium at the an- Dr. Munson Oﬁered“ 'ejfollow.
. , , 13.“. .nual “meeting of the Veterinary lﬁig .chmcal‘g 6-3 as annald
vacc1na'ked , . r’ “Méﬂ Gain Aﬁcﬁfﬁﬁmn bf New .131" in L, a ‘V I
mmiity‘nn =07“ ~ " mammogram 11 ' reviews. %‘%ﬁ§fﬁlﬁ a;

. m.
liver dis ease, the onset is: grad-
ual, signs of jaundice
marked, and the patient usually
displays a cheerful" attitude.

digestion and ﬂatulence;
stool is light or intermittently

 

is normal

marked by occasional hemOr- ‘
rhage. Response to vitamin K is

“dramatic.” Palpation of the,
liver rarely reveals pain or ten-'-~
derness.

0 In the hepatogenous, or

hepatocellular type, the onset is

rapid—sometimes so rapid that

few clinical signs may be obs:

served. Appearance of jaundice

is mild, and the animal tends to

be depressed. There is anorexia

and vomiting, and the stool, light

at ﬁrSt, becomes increasingly

bile-stained. The spleen often is

enlarged.

' Ecther Conditions

Frequent hemo1rhaging of the
skin and in the G.I. tract occurs
in the hepatogenous form of

. liver disease, and since lack of

bile prevents vitamin K from
being absorbed, response to the
vitamin is either absent or de-
1ayed.Palpation frequently pro-
duces pain or tende1ness

Dr. Munson emphasized the.
importance of excluding hemo—
lytic disease, noting that the
jaundiCe sometimes produced by
this Candi-tion must be differen-
tiated from the jaundice result-
ing from liver disease.

Toxic hepatitis may appear in
either the obstructive or hepato-
genous form, and can be caused,
by overdoses of worm medicines,
rodent poison or oil—based
sprays, Dr. Munson said. The
three largest etiological factors
in liver disease, he concluded,
are dietary excesses, infections,
and poisons which often are the
result of improperly used harm-
less preparations.

 

ed, “swelling of the liver cells as
a result of mﬂammatlon—char-m52;.14;

are

This condition also produces mac}:
the .

The obstructive type also is“

 

bile- stained; the spleen usuallygsjglﬂ

 

 

 




 

 
 

VETERINARY DISPATCH

 

 

 

 

5%! . 9&2; W at;

 

  
  
 
 

'A'
4"-
v a/ ‘

   

"a
«a,

   

 

~31».

V."v
‘-
.‘C ‘

0-.

W191,»
' ‘72. -

t7!

 

 

 

'i ‘ ,

. ' t ‘I ‘I
— —-.- we're.) '9'.-

 
   
   
    

 

     
   

  

 
 

' :9 \r'
V" ”55%
3" Vi: 'O ~

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  

optimum dosage flexibility

0 LV. administration for immediate and prolonged
hormonal response

0 LM. administration for primary and supportive
therapy of all corticosteroid-responsive disorders

   
   

 

i,

 

_ ,a

‘ persmlt‘nunimal therape

   

re

w

n""a‘n‘ceci ac

‘ superior economy—costs as low as $6 the prednisteroids;
parenteral corticosteroid therapy now economically
feasible, even in large animals

 

, unmatched safety

maintenance doses apparently do not cause sodium
and ﬂuid retention or potassium loss

         

«methadone

: Fer camplete' information on this drug, see special insert in this issue.

 

NEW

   

for oral follow-up therapy
in large animals 4 '

Azium Powder

9 use as drench or sprinkle on feed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

April-May" 1961 , ’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

"I.

'a’
}.

..,.
.-

' V?ﬁg;‘.*~;,‘¥" «3. .

T‘" "fill“. 11.2"?“ '
I , ‘ -‘ ‘

‘

 

P‘:I3._ }\

 

#F‘V’;_-h‘-i'-‘z" .
1.1»; 1:."

. 33315:":
‘ .‘15‘5

J‘va‘r, ;

-.; - “
s. ..a‘
.

" «'1.

t:
E .
V1 1'
I .
~33“

nv zzzz

 

 

' zpril-May: 1961

   

(

 

 

)\3(’U 00"" VETERINARY SOCIETV

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G QRMAN

“. . . and for the year’s best dramatic pericardiotomy in the
21/2-hours—with-hemorrhagic-complications category . . .”

 

 

 

To the Editor: _ ~

I have read the report in the
March issue of VETERINARY
DISPATCH. on Dr., Palludan’s
work on vitamin A deﬁciency-
and the production of fetal
:9 4.1;. “ _ 33

Like so many other areas of
research, the deﬁciency of vita-

min A is not sufficiently well un— '
’ derstood. Dr.

Palludan’s work
emphasizes this. '

Although it is impractical to
attempt an appraisal of her ef-
forts from a news summary, it
appears that some degree of
caution shouldbe taken in eval-
uating the results as reported.
..Since the etiological mecha-.
nism of hydrocephalus is un-
known, one should be. careful not

‘ to conclude that all hydroce—
Phalic animals are products of.-

vitamin A deﬁciency. Speciﬁc
evidence exists in some species-
that hydrocephalus can be of
genetic origin. This is also true

of accessory ears and a number

of other malformations.

It .is quite possible that Dr.
Palludan’s experiments were
conducted in a manner which
would give some degrees of con-1
trol over genetic factors. For ex-

  
 
  
  
   
   
  
  

if? marry again ” he explained.

A stall for B. babalis

But heavenly priority,
Confer for my security,

   
 
 
  
   
  
 

A prelific reproducer,

   

 

. .,
.13!» 9]; I ' ’“" "pl. .‘r-‘ﬁ 11-32"! {1.
., ., .5 '1 3» “.3 ,. 3.3.23
0 "a' D - 7 3 .. . 1 I . *3 3 _

~' 1‘ age e 1’ Ethel peer. coon-("$5.7

. ' 0 "1.1.5.: ear»-

 

A Fellah’s Best Friend

C4IRO—A young social worker was shocked to hear Sheikh
lblahim oﬁer a prayer for the health of his “garnoossa,”
5:3. buffalo prized by the Egyptian “fellah” as his most precious pos-
5“ session, and as an afterthought, add a plea for his wife and chil-,

dren. “My wife gives birth every year and if I lose her I can
“But another ‘gamoossa.’ would be

very hard to obtain.”——-Associated Press news item.

To have a really true prestige inducer,
A fellah needs a healthy type gamoossa;

egg, 1 Turns a hut into a palace,
Which can’t be said for lion, elk or mooser!

I therefore pray Thee, D. V..,M Divine,
Do bless my camel, kith and kin and kine;

Upon the status symbol that is mine!

0, keep her from disease and its sequela,
And safe from such bacilli as Brucella;
Please make my dear gamo'ossa

And me, Thy servant a most happy fellah!

ample, she may have mated the
same boar with the same sow on-

successive farrowings, raising
one litter under normal feeding
conditions and a subsequent lit-
ter under conditions of a vitamin
A deﬁclency

3 3,31}: 3_: n; . )_.
3:0 g\ ,7- :1

currmg’aﬁomalles and malforma_ - ha“
“(ms 0f genetic origin '

Also; if some anomalies, not
previously associated with vit-

. amin, A deﬁciency, are intensi-
ﬁed by depriving the animalof -'

this vitamin, could it be the re-
sult of stimulation of recessive
genes? Can the occurrence of
these anomalies in animals on

low vitamin A intake be con-

trolled genetically as well as
nutritionally?

The important factor in the
results that Dr. Palludan has
presented is that the develop-
ment of anomalies is probably a
more complex mechanism than
is generally accepted. We all
wish her continued success in
her efforts.

H. W. Dunne, D.V.M.
Professor of Veterinary
Science, in charge of
Veterinary Research,
The Pennsylvania State
University

University Park, Pa.

   

   
   
 
      
  
  
  
   
  
   
     
  
     
      
       
         
        

a water

    
  

    
  
  
 

  
       
   
   
   

w.s.o.'_,i

_ a year.

VETERINARY DISPATCH -

--Formula for Professional Growth

Page Scarf!

 

 

 

Wanted: A Strong DVM Voice

 

 

Special to Veterinary Dispatch

AUBURN, Ala—A spokesman

veterinary medicine in the United States and
Canada recently called upon present and pro-
spective members of the profession to assure
their own future by dedication to three objec-

tives:

0 A strong, united voice to influence legisla-

tion affecting the profession.

0 Development of opportunities in new, grow-

ing ﬁelds.

for organized

compared with

veterinarians would be ﬂooded with 9,000 or
more effective expressions of opinion.
“The fact that we are small in number, as

other professional groups, can

be turned to advantage,” he said. “We are thinly
spread across the nation, so there is hardly a

county which does not have at least one veteri-

narian with an inﬂuential relationship.
“Furthermore, ” he said, “as a relatively small

group, we can be more tightly knit, communicate

with each other more easily, and thus unite

more readily behind a strong, single voice.”

0 Placing of a premium on superior service

and competence.

This strategy for progress in the immediate
years ahead was outlined here by Dr. Jack O.

Knowles, Chairman of the
Executive Board, the American
Veterinary Medical Association,
to members of Omega Tau
Sigma, a veterinary fraternity.
He spoke in acknowledgement of
the group’s annual Zeta Award,
presented to him for outstand-

ing contributions to veterinary

medicine.
Dr. Knowles stressed the im-

portance of civic and community activity by
Such participation
affairs, he said, helps members of the profession
to exert favorable impacts on people who inﬂu-

veterinarians.

ence policy.

He placed particular emphasis on the need for
veterinarians to keep informed on relevant legis-
lation through reports in the AVMA Journal. 1

He pointed out that if only one—ﬁfth of the
15,000 membership of the AVMA were to write
key congressmen three times a year, legislators

 

Dr. Knowles

in public

New Fields

On the subject of the future of veterinary
medicine, Dr. Knowles singled out the ﬁelds of
space medicine and research as holding special
promise. Multiplying projects involving labora-
tory animals will offer DVM’s “an avalanche of .
new knowledge,
hand,” he said.
3 “And, with rapid growth and change in the
next several years, more and more, the premium
will be on excellence,” Dr. Knowles asserted.

“As oral vaccines increasingly make their ap-
pearance, for example, their administration may
well be done by our clients. Even though the
management of vaccination programs should re-
main a professional responsibility, an important
service may drift from our hands,” he warned,
noting that “clinic practitioners have taught

with opportunities at every

their clients, who in turn have taught other

approaches,

pet owners, to take over most nursing.”

Dr. Knowles stressed that veterinarians “will
have to make strenuous efforts to develop newer .
techniques,
and services which will make them indispensible
to their clients.” Growing, lucrative practices

and specialized skills

 

preparing to act on measures of vital concern to

ill

1-4! no i .53
:fg'c
$32.55

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REPRODUCTION IN THE DOG by A E Harrop.
Williams 81 Wilkins 00., Baltimore 2, Md., 1960,
197 pages, $7..00

This book fills a long felt need for a cempre-

    

of dogs thanr in most any other facet 0f vet- .

erinary medicine. It is refreshing to have a well
illustrated volume with good references made
available“

The author has included his own very fine
work on artificial insemination and sterility, and
gives answers to such questions ashow often a
dog may be used at stud, characteristics of dog
semen, Collection of sperm, sperm counts, vali-
ations in vaginal smears during the estrus cycle
and many others.

There is a good, concise review of the essen- .

tial features of the anatomy involved. The com-
plexities of histological findings are very well
done. The information concerning. the diagnosis
of pregnancy and the variatiOns in duration of

     

“will be the rewards of excellence,” he said.

 

should be excellent for informing the apprehens

" sive owner.
I concur wholeheartedly with the sage and , ' ‘
considered advice on dystocia and surgical proce3i, .

. orally on 1119333311 to perform a Caesar n ,

   
 

3 113 331,, a; ' . Pg“; 3 1.9““ --;~_ 33.3113933‘ , 3“.
.very hmsifls .,arsa to 0 111111 1s; 86., . ;. .., a...
1., . “.50 11mg. ﬁfewlng , '- viﬁémg‘isssﬁ , ' ‘ '” ter an canine Maladies Will and (Fiery-

one endeavoring to raise healthy puppies. It, 'v‘ i
also contains a discussion of the composition OI ' '
bitches milk. Among the congenital conditions
> discussed, imperforate anus is net mentioned. 3
The fact that much of the information on the

effect of nutrition on reproduction was drawn

by analogy from other animals points to the

need for studies in this field.

The treatments suggested are generally in line,
with those of this country, though I might vary-:3

the treatment of misalliance.

The book is to be highly recommended and
should prove useful to the practitioner, student,
research worker, and to breeders both profess”
.sional and amateur.

Robert L. Leighton, V.M.D.

 

 
 

overextension of
lack of utilization of stock and

, unused materials.
5 lists of current and overstocked

 

gestation is rewarding.

There is~ a chapter on normal parturition and
one on mating which are to be commended and

1......Statewide Study Produces:

Animal Medical Center
350 Lafayette Street
New York, N. Y.

 

 

 

Rx for Hospital Management I

 

(Continued from page 1)
3 these accounts, with cash re-
' ceipts audited by the veterina-
rian or his designate.

0 An identiﬁcation system of
should be

authorized credit
worked out so
that when the
patient reaches
the treatment
table, the veteri-
narian need not
be concerned
with the invest-
ment he should

S. K. Bronstein

0 Maintenance of a contlolled
purchasing system to prevent
inventories,

unnecessary tying up of cash in
Up—to—date

items assures control of drugs,
prevents diversion of pharma-
ceuticals to unauthorized uses.
The pharmacy inventory -— a
critical income area—should- be
turned over at least eight times

 

 

In addition , to emphasizing
tighter ﬁnancial controls, Mr.
Bronstein reported that he and
his associates found other ad-
ministrative needs often ne-
glected in veterinary hospitals
and clinics.

He stressed the importance of
having all employees uniformed,
and generally creating a busi-
nesslike, yet friendly atmos-
phere for the beneﬁt of clients.

In dietary matters, he urged
rigorous supervision of cleanll-

,. ness and sanitation, methods of

food transportation, refrigera-
tion and refuse disposal.

In too many instances, Mr.
Bronstein noted, it was found
that kennel men feed the ani-
mals without regard to size, ap-
petite or physical condition.
“Certainly it is neither thera-
peutically nor economically rea-

sonable to feed a small animal-

the Same as a large animal,
wasting food in one instance,
and leaving a creature hungry
in the second ” he said.

Mr. .Bronsteins studies re-

 

vealed grounds to caution many

veterinarians that they have no
legal protection if they operate
without signed consent of, the
owner, or if they do not have
signed permits for euthanasia
on ﬁle.

He reminded his DVM audi-
ence that care must be exer-
cised in adequate locks for nar-
cotics closets, with constant
awareness of state and federal
regulations.

Objectivity Stressed

Mr. Bronstein concluded by
pointing out that, with the best
of intentions, veterinarians
themselves “would ﬁnd it hard
to advise or criticize each
other’s operations.

“It has been our experience,"
he said, “that the outsider who
has a mastery of management
skills and, especially, an objec-
tive attitude along with the de-
sire to help, can be of incalcula-

'ble aid to, the veterinarian in

easing his administrative bur-
dens, improving his professional
effectiveness, ~ and assuring him
of a better dollar return for
his labOrs.”

\ .

‘ '5.-
VA
3..

  

  
  
   
  
  
   

     
  
 

  

       
   
 

   
   
  
    
 

    
   

   




 

[18" mg“ VETERINARY DISPATCH Arril-I'Iary 1961

        

3% setﬁﬁii’m:

.uu

' I Deft Ma ipul
_ To Put Goat Into a ‘Trance’

  

._ 3...“ .".,..,.._:
. . siesta»

u. -

        

  

  
   

DR. A. U. MO RE demonstrates mechanisms of conditioned reflex in a sheep. Animal responds
with raised foreleg to a signal associated with a previously experienced stimulus. Pavlovian
methods are used at Cornell University in probing animal behavior and learning processes.

  
    

Science Probes Animal Behavior

Hypnosis:A Veterinary Tool?

special to Veterinary Dispatch 4; FIRST STEP in “hypnosis”--getting the animal to lie down.
NEW YORK—“Tonic immobil- volve sleep, but the animal does nual meeting of the American
ity"—-a form of hypnosis Which “go into a sort of trance,” he Association for the Advancement
can be induced in certain species said. “A veterinarian who mas- of Science.
of animals, such as sheep and ters the skill may one day be The key to success in this form
goats, may have a potential ap- able to apply it in certain types of animal hypnosis, he said, lies
plication in veterinary practice, of therapy, or as a substitute for in manipulation of the animal’s
Dr. A. Ulric Moore, Associate Di- restraint." “flight distance.”
rector of the Behavior Farm Dr. Moore described the me- Dr. Moore defined “flight dis-
‘ Laboratory at Cornell University, chanism of “tonic immobility" tance” as the specific area which
recently reported here. before the American Society of separates an animal that feels
This technique does not in- Zoologists, during the recent an- threatened, from an approach-
., . . , ing “attacker." Up to a certain
point, the threatened creature
will move either to “ﬁght or
ﬂee.”

 

 

Defensive Response

When, however, the aggressing
animal moves past that point,
closer to the “target," the threat-
ened animal’s “flight distance”
is violated," and it reacts by
going into a state of “tonic 1m-
mub'uity.“ \' ‘ .. ,
This'is a basic defensive re-'
sponse, “probably on a reflex
level,” he said. “It may have a
survival value for undomesti-
cated animals since predators “FLIGHT DISTANCE”
tend to attack only moving tar-
gets.”

Elaborating further on his ob-
servations, Dr. Moore told
VETERINARY DISPATCH that
the practicing veterinarian, in ef-
fect, is manipulating an animal’s
“flight distance” as he ap-
proaches it for purposes of exam-
ination or treatment.

Conditioning Unaffected

Two additional phenomena
were noted in the animal hypno-
sis experiments at the Behavior
Farm Laboratory:

0 Animals which had been con—
ditioned by the Pavlovian meth—
od to respond in a specific way
to such external stimuli as bells,
buzzers and mild electric shocks,
reacted to the same signals, just
as they were conditioned, even
during hypnosis.

0 Animals which had been
_ reared by “substitute mothers”
. .. 2e ‘ . (lambs by goats, and kids by
EXPERIMENT using cloth motion shows newborn animal only sheep) were not susceptible to
follows moving object. If mother didn’t move, baby wouldn’t eat. hypnosis.

,. In This Issue VETERINARY DISPATCH Unfit; i

 

 

 

Canine Blood Transfusions Given to Cats . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . .. The Newspaper of the Veterinary Profession PAID 1
Ribicoff Urged to Create High Post for DVM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , _ 3
Survey of 60 DVM Hospitals Highlights Management Needs . . . . 3 West 57th St, New York 19, N. Y. Jersey City, N- J. 1

OIOO'av-.-..-'.|

Hip Dysplasia Study Will Probe Pathology . . . . . . .
Bile Is lmplicated in Coccidiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distemper Immunization Tied to Timing .. .
Disease-Free Rearing Shows New Hog Gains

Hoosier Breeders and DVM‘S Join Forces Against Mastitis
Discount Deer as Reservoir of Brucelleae . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Herd Studies Yield Clues to Bovine Leukemia .. . .
Rise in Harness Sports Spurs Equine Practice . . . . . . .
Anti-Fertility Substances in Plants Probed . . . . . . . .
A New Look at Distemper Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senegal’s Ambassador is a DVM ....... . . . . . . . .. ..... ...
‘Liver That Can Be Palpated’ Reveals Presence of Disease
Wanted: A Strong DVM Voice
A Fellah’s Best Friend . . ..
In the Editor's Mail

CurrentBooks.................. .. .. ..
Hypnosis: A Veterinarchol?

Permit No. 1500

 

 

 

iIODOCouvItouO

o

u..non-....tn...».-.-n.-...-.-. ..... no

.-..-IuADO-~Ioo-tv-o.n-..--s.-...-.--v-----l

 

mandammmwwwNNNh-IHHHHH

 

               




The;
&ct§0n 0n the b§IES

Eouse interstaie gmd Ferei;m wuHm‘

 

hag takem
saver:
the ComWELLee the ini
from The (W Tréqi i 5
mpéého n t? .ai actimn
UWQUbeedEy,

and E '5

:EC' Pi

Committee
we”? a?

(:6:

L‘H‘H‘UV’ 9-»
Huhdsz'ﬁ C a 887':

Sn

tug
:pﬁrted i9
recaé

a ,‘ E
VCQ
”w" ‘3‘?“
JeJL,

onger




       

RICHARD BOLLING, MO., VICE CHAIRMAN

     
     
   
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
   

PAUL H. DOUGLAS, ILL., CHAIRMAN

JOHN SPARKMAN, ALA. WRIGHT PATMAN. TEXo

J. w. FULBRIGHT, ARK. HALE BOGGS. LA-

WILLIAM PROXMIRE, ms. HENRY s. REuss, WIS.
CLAIBORNE FELL, R.l. MARTHA w. GRIFFITHS, MICH.
JACOB K. JAVITS, NJI. ' THOMAS B. CURTIS, MO.

JACK MILLER, IOWA ﬂ CLARENCE E. KILBURN, N.Y.
LEN 3- JORDAN, IDAHO ungregg u t at B a £5 WILLIAM B. WIDNALL, NJ.
JAMES W- KNOW-Es. JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
(CREATED PURSUANT To SEC. 5(a) OF PUBLIC LAw 304, 79TH CONGRESS)

September it, 196E

Mrs. G. E. Iipton
1413 Elmwood Avenue
Evanston, Illinois

Dear Mrs. listen:
Thankwou for your letter sutporting S. 533.

This bill which provides for the humane treatment of
vertebrate animals used in exteriments and tests by
recipients of grants from the Federal government is
pending in the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Com—
mittee. ,Although I am not a member of this commit-
tee, I want you to know that from the hearings in
the 87th Congress and other testimony, I feel that
it contains many fundamental requirements without
excessive restrictions.

I am hopeful that legislation may be passed as soon
as possible to improve animal housing where needed,
and to alleviate the suffering of the animals used
for research.

It is good to know of your support for this legisla~
tion.

With best wishes;

Faithfully,

   
 

\

Pau H. Douglas

 

PHDzsﬂp




LISTER HILL, ALA., CHAIRMAN

PAT MCNAMARA, MICH. BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
WAYNE MORSE, OREG. JACOB K. JAVITS, N.Y.
RALPH YARBOROUGH, TEX. WINSTON L. PROUTY, VT.
JOSEPH S. CLARK, PA. JOHN G. TOWER, TEX.

JENNINGS RANDOLPH, w. VA. LEN 3. JORDAN, IDAHO o

HARRISON A. WILLIAMS, JR. N.J. ’2' [n f a ﬁt“! 5 ‘1 [af
CLAIBORNE FELL, R.I. ' I e 25 e e
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, MASS.

LEE METCALF, MONT. COM M ITTEE ON

LABOR AND PUBLIC WELFARE
STEWART E. MC CLURE, CHIEF CLERK
JOHN s. FORSYTHE, GENERAL COUNSEL

September ?, l96h

Mrs. Winifred Tipton
lhl3 Elmwood Avenue
Evanston, Illinois

Dear Mrs. Tipton:

Thank you for your recent communication concerning
legislation on humane treatment of animals used in experi~
ments and tests.

I understand fully the spirit which.prompts you to
write. There are several bills before the Congress and you
'may'be sure I will examine into all aspects of this legisla-
tion with the greatest concern.

YOur views on this issue are very much appreciated
and I will have them very much before me when the bills come
before me in the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, of
which I am a member, and on the Senate floor.

With best wishes,

Sincerely,

Jacdb K. Javits, U;S.S.

 




Er. E. 3.‘Ingia, Eﬂiiax

EerspﬁﬁtiV93 1% Bimicgy anﬁ ﬁaﬁig1n@
9&1 East ﬁﬁth Sﬁxﬁgt

,Qﬁhicagm 3?, Illinais

Bear ﬁr. Englg,

Thaﬂk yen far inviting mg ﬁe Xeply ia your latﬁgr amﬁ ﬁn ﬂammﬁnﬁ
ﬂﬁ nthar téﬁﬁﬁf Ewiths ha iﬁbﬁzataxy &nim32§ in PE§$?E€TE?B$ 1% EIﬁLﬁGY AH?
EEEYCEEF. Ygu rafgr ﬁa ﬁnx $ﬂ$§ﬁ$ﬁﬁmdﬁﬁﬁ$ a: a ﬁdghata‘ hamav&r, 1 $9
ﬁﬁt Wish ta scaxa paints against yam but ﬁw‘try ta maﬁa @ﬁﬁ fasﬁs gimar.
I haliﬁve in tha iﬁﬂﬁéﬁﬁ$3 0f thw ssientifig wﬁﬁhad and try ta apply it .
as muﬁﬁ as waaaiblﬂ 1m wark.ta $96mca neeélﬂta aaimai au§fgxing. ﬁﬂ thig
m9“ ”7*” ”WM iii??? m ﬁrmm rm mm mmm as? m a? Mm may mum
effsxﬁs ”Q ha”? mad% @V@? a pariaa a? Yaars tm fﬁiimw tha suggaatimﬁ yﬁm
makﬁg “$6 in tﬁam (leadéra in mediaal raaﬁarch} far adviﬁ@...”'fﬂg.
Chaﬁﬁﬂ$§£®ﬁkﬁs Whﬁﬁ ﬁg %@8 pwasident ﬁf the Amarican Asgaaiaﬁian fax {ha
RdVﬁﬂﬁéwﬁn% 9f Sﬁiéﬁﬁﬁ. adviSad mﬁ ta iﬂvita suah leaders to gathax in a
canveﬁient placg-aﬁé hava a ﬂietastian. gallgwing with aarw ﬂ&$% buggestien
ﬁg mﬁéﬁ: arraaggmgnts Wsrﬁ madg far dinnar at thé Entgrﬂaﬁimm%l Club 9f
€335} 3315 k ?{3bi:@~? in Chimga .. Apmgnigtg mmgﬁﬁﬁmtivés .31: am ﬁatiémi
géﬁiﬁﬁv gﬁr %@dieal Rﬂamaxeh anﬁ ﬁmaxiaam ﬂadiaal Assnaiat1$n Were imvﬁtaﬁ
and askad £0 axt%mé iavitatiens ta mtheti. Thraa membaxs @f thﬁ Animai
‘ﬁQXfaxa Emltﬁtuﬁﬁﬁflww ta Chicago fat tha mﬁeting. Thaxg was a hint mf
ﬁxau%1% Whﬂﬁ I was iaf$rmad by thé Eneautivg ggcrgﬁary 9f tha‘ﬁSER, ﬁx.
RDﬁWﬂdﬂr, that I must ﬁwavida a ﬁapanxasarder 3m tha pgivata diniag rmmm
’0 ﬁhﬁt 3V93Ythiﬁ§ QVGEVEﬂd? $aia Wbuld ha xaaﬂtéad. Ewwavwx, the hetwi
$633 ta tha ﬁgcaaian $36 by tha ting W? staeﬁ waiﬁing fax aux guasﬁs.'W@
haﬁ $13 learnad hﬁw $6 393 the xegexaarc Bx. ﬁgaka appﬁared, all xightg
and ﬁx. Rahwaéar was thﬁtﬁg af mourae, bxinging with hiatﬂm. E3 R. Ragwex,
Vﬁtﬁﬁiﬁ3r? h@%6 9f ﬂﬁimﬁl caxa aﬁ the ﬁnivattity af Chﬁamga. That man tha
'wwm‘tatal 5f 9“? guei%a. Mb. Rehweéer said it was $11 xighﬁ mat t0 xua thﬁ
tapejzécoxder. am it aat there thraughout tha oédast dinner party I ean
$&$&719

Thaugh, as van ﬂan see {ran the abovw, ieaéaxa in m@dimal raae&r£h
'waxa markﬂéiy zaiuatant to entex iate any discmﬁaion aVan undax tha
benewml@at gaspiaes-ﬂf Ex. Leake,‘wg have 3&V®3 failed t0 @aaSulio whenavar
npaartunity affered, with such leaa@3i. .ThQ xasalti have baan unifarmly
diﬂapﬁﬁiﬂtiﬁgo ‘

 




 

Er. E. 3a IEEIE. EEIEEE *2»

 

IEEEEEEIIEEE IE and E EIEIEE SEEIEEEEE 1?, 19:63

AEEEEEE IEEEEE Ef EEE1EE1 EEEEEEEE. EﬂEthE EEEEE E IEEEEE far EEE
3mm, WEE ISEEE EI’ IN BIOLM am <~1EICINE,LFDE.I.S,
EEEIE, EEE EEE MEI; E EEEEEI Erin and EE EE WEE tﬁmemtﬁ EEEEEIEEE
IE EIEEEEE EhE IEEEEEEEI of EEEEEIEEEEEI Emma. IE EEEIEIEE Ethm
IEEEEEEEE; EEEEIE EEEE EEEE Et EhEaE EEEEIEEE. II EEE EEEEEEE Er. REIEIE'E
EEEI EIIIEEE EEEE I EEG EEEEIEE IE EIEE E EEE dwy EI E EIE E: ‘ EEEEIEE
EE TEE EEEIEEEI CEEIEEEEEE EE EEE LEgEI EEEIEEEEEEI EI EEEIEET SEIEEEE
(I EEE EIEEEE 1E EEE EEEEIEE En EEE Ef‘ EEIEEM by high mEEEI EEEEEEIE End.
E1 EEEI EEE EE IE!” IIEEEE EE EEEEE EEIEE u by IEWEQE bays and
EEEIE, EEE EEEEE EEE EEE EEEE EEE IEEIVIEEEI EEEEEEE WEE EEEIE IEEEEEE E
E ”IEE !” EEEEEEE EEEE EEIEviEEIIEEIEE)o I EEIIEVEE fer E IEEE:EIEE EEEE
~sr. IEEEIE Ens fEEUInEIE IEEEEEOEEE 1E thE’EElfare E? EXEEEIEEEEEI animals.

I M» travzmd “’2 3:: E EEEIEE Ef II‘EIIVIEIIEIB. EEE EEEE EEEEEEEIEIE IE3:
EIEEEEhf 32E ’WEIEDIEW EEG EEE EEIEEI EEEEE. EEEEE EE IE EEEE them EEE
'EEI EEEE: ”EEEIE IEEE EI EEEEEIEEEEEI AEIEEIE“ End ”CameEIEDQE‘QEEEEEEQ
IEE IEEEEEEEry EEIEEIE”, EEE EEEEEEE EE EEE QEErtEri EﬁpEGiEIIY IEE IEEEE
EEIEEIE, EEEIE EE EEEEIy EEEEEIEE IE Existing EEEE. I EIE EEEEythiEg EE
IEIE E: IE ﬁﬂg EEI EEEE I EEEE EEEE E EEEEIE Ef yEaEa IEEEE EEE saw IEE
EEEEE, IE EEE EEE EEEE EIE EEEEYEEEIEEEEIEEE EEEEﬂ with EIE EEEE In EEEEE
EEE EIE‘I IEE EEEE EVEE IE III EEEE IE EEEEEIIEQ EE EEEEEEE EEEEEyswmIE
JEEIE I“ EEE IEE‘gggg IIIf‘III‘7‘ IEE IE” EXEIEIMEﬁIEI dﬁﬁs EEEE EEE EIE
En K“3EE EEEEE IEEy WEEE: k E II II IE1 pE Em and EEE EEEEIEEE Er EEEEIEE
17113331? I “I14? I II: ”:2"? .

   

 

 

   

 

IE. IEEEIE'E EEEEIEEI E.II IIIEE of III EIEE “IEEEEEEEEEE“ IE
EEEEEEI IE EEIE I EEEEIE IE EM EIIE CEEIEEEI I II E 11E VEEE building
EEEEEIEQ EEE EE EEE EEEEEE II EEE IEIEEEEIty EI pmﬁﬂ8¥1V$ﬁiEu TEE EEEEE
IE I EEEEEIEEE EEIIIEE EEIEEIEIEE 1a m WEE IE E Eig EvEr EgEnE E13 ﬂack 1m
I4 I, 11* ERIEEE EEIIE ERIE; s hIV‘ EEEE ﬂIdI EI.EE E I EisItEE It. It is 111
EEEI*E E IEE EME EEMEIEE EI EEIEEIS. IEIE VIEW Is shared by pEEfEsaIEnEIIV
"EE*1+IEE EEEEII EIEE jEEE I E15 EEEEEE It EIsE, EEI E SSE EEEEE I think It
EEEy .HIE E<'WIIEEEIE. EEE EI IEEE EEEE EKEEEEEEE EEE VIEW'EhEt EEE EEEEEEEE
EIEE IEE IEEIEEEI IEEEIEEEEE Ef EEEIEE had EEEE EIEIEEEE with EEEEEE IE EEE
EEIEEl EEIEIEEE. Thus, EEIIgEIIEI EEEEEE BE. EEEEIE’E EEEpEEy is. EEEIEEEI
IEEEEE I still EE EE EIE IEE EEE EEEEEIEEIEE IE EEEEEd tEE MEIR EEEIEEEEEE.
Md EEEE EIIEI EEEEEI I EE EI his EEEEEIEI influanc , If he EEE EEEE
EEEEEEI EIE VEEyE EEEIEE EIEE IE EEEE EEEIEusly EIIEEE EE 1) EEEEEE EEEEIEE
EEE EEEE EI EEIEEIO Er, I? III IEEIEIEEIEE EE EEEEIEE EEEEEE EEEEEEEEE IEE
EXEEEIIEEtII EEIEEIS EEEEE EE IEEEEEE. EEEEE EEEIE EEE EE 1) EEEEEE
EEIEE? EEEEEEEE IE EEE IEEEE, End 2) EE EEEld EEE stEEE ”EEEsE EIII: EIII
, EEEEEIEI EE‘EEEGII EEEEE EEEE EEE EEE: Eat-E EEEEuEEy“IE1EE, In fut. IEE bill's
EE EEE EEEE EEEE EEE'EEIEEEEEE EE EEEE and EEEQ.

IE EIIWEE‘ EEE EEEQEIEEE EEE EM; IE yam IEEEEE, IIEM, yEE ESE IEE
EEIEEEEE EEEE the .ErE End EEEEEEEEE 0f IEEEEEEEEy animals In England In
EEEEEIEE IE EEEI In EEE EEIEEE SEEEEE. 1) PEEEEEEI EthEEEtIEEE I EEVE
EEVEE‘ EEEE EEE we“ abuse: IE my mum. labmatmy that. I have QEEII
EEEEEEEEIE In AEEEIEEE IEEEEEEEEIEII. 2) AEIEEI TEEEEIEIEEQ AanEIEIIEE. _
IEE EEIIEEE EI BEItith EEIEE! IEEEEIEIEEE End E? their tEEIEIEg In supErIEE
and I EEIIEVE, EEIEEEtEIly EEEEEEIEEE Ea ﬂush. ﬂEE of the IIEEE EEIEEE
EEEEEE EEIEE! IEEEEIEIEM are the Emirmtt E? IRE mum AGE EEEE
:EWIE‘EEQ animal EEEEEIEEEM. I) mums Vinita” often Emmet: EMEEEEEE
EE thE EEEEEEEM Ef mm 10 here. I have EEVEE yet mm Either E ﬁnish
or IE IEEEIEEE EEIEEEIIE WEE EhEEmt mm In EEEE EEEEEE treated am!

 




93A 90 J. Inglﬁg 335.1013 "ﬁ’ , 33 3
PAAAAAAAAAAA AA'AAAlagy AAA AAAAAAAA SAAAAAAAA 1?, 19AA

SAAfAAAA IAAIAAAAA thAA AA AAA AAAA, A) TAA BAAAAAA AAA AAAAAAAAAIAA
AAAAAAAA AAA ﬁMltiple AAAkAllAA AAAA3A1AAA AA A A1AA1A AAAAA1 AAAAA AAA
AAAAAAA 1A AAAA AAAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAAV AAAAAAA AA AAA AAAAAAA AAA
AAAAA AAAAA AAAV 1AAA AAAAA AAA AAAA AAA AAA11AAA3 AAA AAA AAAAQA AAAAAAAIA
AAAAAAI AAAAAAAAAA AA AAAAAA, AAAAAA than havAAA AAA. 31333131 3A AA AAA
individual AAIAAAAA AAAkAAA AA AAAAAAAA AAA AAAAIAAA killing A3 AAAAAIA
AAAIA AAAAAAAAA is AAAAAA AAA likAiy‘tA AAAAAAAAA AA IAAAAA AAA A.A»«~a

A? AAAAA is AAAA 1A AAAAAAI AAAAAAAAMA. :51 AA AAA AAA AAA AAAAA AAAAAA
AAAIA AAAAAAAAIA AA AAAAAAAA AA AAA 1AAA3A1AA AAIAAAAA AAAAA AAA AAAAAAAA
1333331: 10, 131333133: AAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAA Af AAAAAAA 1A EAAAAAA AAA; AAA AAA {33311-3331

"3’.

fAA AAAA AA AAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAA AA AXAAAAAAAtA AAAAAAA AA AA AA
father. AAeaiA1v +A18 As A AAAAAAAAA t0 A AAAAAAA AAAAAIA AAAIASAAA AA
the P .AAAAAy 1AAAA AA “AAA PAVAAAlogiat” AA AAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAA A? A
IAttAA AA AAA SAAAAA AAAA AAAAA Af PAAAAAEYAAV” 1A AEALSAY AAA AFBIAAAE,
Br. AAaAAAAA. I AAAAAA AA tay AbAA AAA AAAAAAAAI AAIAAAAA A1 3AA
PhyaiaﬁAAist” AAA AAA 1AA; 11AAAA1 AAAA AAAAA, AAA 1 AAAA AAAA AAAAAAA 1AA
AAAAAAAAAAA AA AAAAAAA AAA AAAAAAAAAAAAV'AAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAA AAAAA
my EAAAAA AAAAA. 1% AAA AAA AA1A1AA AA AAAA AAAAAAA, 1A AAAZA AA AAAA AA
have 1% AAAAAAAAA AAAAA. 1 AA AAAAAAA AAAA AA AXAAAAAAAA AAAA AAAAAAAAA Ay
him AAA3A Aat AAAA AAAA AAAAAAAAA AAAAA AAA AAAAAAA AAA AA AAAAA AAA CAAAAA
NAAAAAAAA A113 AM313A AAA AAAAAAAAAAAA AA ”E‘Qtrif‘ive . -

AAAAAA with Am 333:1: A33 3 333-3333133333 13 A3313?!“ ”313131133343 and 231141311 AAA
i A 331 s

VOW ﬂiﬁgmttﬂﬁt 1211:: 33333; 3!:33}:$§3 t'y ref ”‘3’“?313‘3’33“ hag 33-39393» iamxﬁvw 1113113 35th via , ’

AAAAA. 1 AAAA AAA AAAAAVA thaf: 1AAAAAAAAA+A 8r" AAAAA mﬁé€ AA; AAA “A1vwraity
A? ”AAAAAA for Any AAAr Are’y A3Adcd. AAA AA A 39%“ AAAA 3f A11 AAA 3
animai AAAAIAASAI AA AAA UAAAAAAAAA Af M1AAAAAA AAA ASAAQAAAA AA AAA AAAA'AAA
AA~AAAAA1AA DA. 63% AA and A staztAd with ANAfAAt frankAAAA, “31‘s funny .
AAA’A 11, that AAA AAA: AAA AAAAA A: in AAA mﬁiVAMfﬁﬁtY AAAA AAAAA AAAAA
AAAAA AAA.”/ AA AAA AAfAAAAAA AA AAA AAAAAAAA AAAIA AA my AAAAAA'A 8AAA111A
AAAAAAA AAAA AA AAAA_AA AAAAAAAA as Chairman AA the AAAAAAAAAA-AAAAAAAAAA

1n IAﬂﬂ.‘ 3 AAAAA AA AAAAAAAA third AAAAA AA this Anint AA AAA AA AAA
p6381b3311A Af prAjudiAA. VAA'WAAI hAVA AA AAAA Av AAAI, .3AAAAA, AAA AAA
fact AAAAE AAVA AAAAA AAA 1A Anv’IAhDIAAQAV A AAAAAA AAAAAI AAA AAAA

“fit-3AA PAAAAA AAA AAA 1A AAAAAA {3? AAA 13333381013333?! BAAAAAAAAA’A 333313233310

AAAAA AA AAAAAA’A AAAAAAAAAAAA. 1f AA1AA1 AAAAAAAA~AAA AAAA AAAAAAAAAA AAA
UAAAAAIAAA of MAAAAAAA AAA AAAAAAA Ay AAAAAA' A AAAAAAAA. AAAA AAAZA AAAA
AAAA'AAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAA.

1 find it AiffiAAlA, AAAAAAA A? 1AAR.A§ AAA AAAAAEAA AAAAAAAAA‘ 1A
AAIEAA AAAA AAAA prAAAAph. WAAA 111A~AAVAAA AAAAAAAAAA 61A my fAAhAA
AMAAA Am? What AAAAAAAAAt that 1 object AA AAAIA hAAA ”13331313336 AAA AAAAAAI
AAAAAAAAAA of AAA AAAAAIAAA of AAAAAA AAAA AAAAAAIAAAI“? AAA in AAA AAAA
AAAAAAAAA, you AAAA AAA AAAAAAAAAAA AAa+eAAAA AAAA AAA AAAAAI‘AAAAAAA
IAAAAAAAA' AAAAAAAAAAA and AAIAAAAA AAAAAA 1A AAAAAAA 1AA AAAAAAA AAA
chAAAAAAA A? AAAAAAI bAieAAAIAA, AAAAA Af +hAA AAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAA...-

3 AAAAAAIA AAAAAA this AAAAAAAAA And kAAA Af AA AnsAAAAA 1A AAAAA AA AAAA
AAAA AAA AAAA AAAAAA. HAAAAAA, if AA hAVA AAA: AAAAAAAAAAA AA AAAAAAAAA.

I AA AAAAA AA swwv AAAAAIV'AAAA AAA 1A AXAGAIY‘WhAt.WAy AA AAAA Any AAAAAAIA
inwmmy 3 A be AAAAAAAAA. And I mat WA 33111 AAA AAA AAA AAAAAAAAA AAA
AAAAA AA AA AA'AAAAAAAAA.

 




  

   

Dr. 9. Jo Ingla, Editor «:4» ‘ .
Parspectivea in Basing? and Madicine septaabe: 17, I963

   
  
  
  
    
  
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

I

To antwe: your quasticn as t0 whether-ax net I agree with the lady
aha Writes that ihe dag: not want t9 buy her childran’s lives with the
agany 9f anather,livdng creature, I wculd refer yen to the interesting
article ”Haw to Befriand Laborataryuhaimals“'by the secretaxywﬁenaral cf'
the Hmivertitiearfedaraticn for AnimaI.We1fata, Maﬁa: 6. W; Hume,‘Wh0,
like you. yrefera tata ta ﬂags. In the ccnrce of discuasirg a related
reint, he states: ”But whan it came: to hurtiﬂg, as distinct from killing;
is there any raason why hurting an animal shaulé be less objectionable than
hurtiﬁg a man with the aame intensity? Eﬁe must act allow this issue tanbe
cenfuaed by the sida issue 9f 836131 reparcuaaiana. If yam hurt a man, yen
alsn.cause distrasQ tn his relatives and friends and yen may incapacitate
him frnm carrying out his accial duties; theta canaidezatians do ﬁat arise
in "$43? maze} of am animal and they have to be taken 131:6 accouﬁtg but they -
ara irro?9vant tn xha principle cf our question and must net be allewed ta
aamfuae its Apart frem.these sccial repercu$siensg is it more abjectionable ta

w hurﬁ a man ﬁhan an animal? I should aay definiﬁely not. and if anybody .

. thinks that it 18,.it is partinent t0 put tha unStian “Why?' I: it on the
grouné ﬁhat animals have me snuls. that is to say no future life? But if
'it is true that they have noﬁé, there is 313 thg more reasem fer making happy
tha 0m?y iifm'thgv arg tc ﬁava. Is it béaausa animals are 3959 intglligent
than human beings? If 59, chi’ﬁrgn aught ﬁe 5% hurt 9n prefergnce to adulttg
who aré mare intailigemt than thay. is it becau3@ a human personality is
mare V??uab?a than that 0f an animai? Its value is irrelavant to hurting.
thﬁuqh mat to kiliing: to caUSe pain ta a mentaliy sick person is not
ﬁrefarablw tc causing pain t0 3 hale*minded and therefcre more valuable one.
Is it ﬁhat animals are less lovabla than human beings? I kept pet rats as
a bay and lived amcng wild onas in tha trenches, and found it as easy to
love thgm as I hava faund it difficult t3 lava Nara and Louis XXV and ,
Himmler, and 86m% gurthar east that I couid mention. and for that mattar
80mg naarar heme as well. If I am asked 'What about your awn relations
and friends?‘ I raply that I mighﬁ be tempted to commit perjury ta save
ﬁne mf them from the gallqws, but that wmuld mat make perjury right. I
knaw of no reason except prejudice fer prefarring that an animal rather
than a random human being should suffer a givan amount of pain, previded
always that indiviaual suffering be distinguished from its Social repern
anagicns and frem the risk of death.”

 

, You mgntion that yuu have raad the testimony fram the laﬁt hearings
and 6% ant recognize the name of any great American scientist among suppcrters
af'tha lagialation.' It may be relevant to note that threughont the course
of tha three diffarent Get! 3? humane slaughter hearings (and I npyreciate
your appxaval cfthis legislatian) the name: of great ineriean meat packers
were alga contpicuous by their absence from the roll; of the supportera.
EVen humana cmai! meat packar: preferred to help a cauae they agreed with
by netting a good example in humane practices rather than actutlly testifying
and running the:riuk of haraﬁsment and.hackling by opponent: of the 19910»
lation. ‘

 

You state that it does net offend you to see an animal immobilized
when:done withcutfinjury. Does thii meam that yau would appmeve of the
adertisementi currently being tent out by*a monkay dhalr manufacturer
competing With-639$ manufacturers by urging laborataries to keep their
monkey! perpetua;$y immobilizad? The :tateé purpose in to keep them

     

"A
; f

 
    




 

gr» 3. 33 33313 333333 33»
33333333333 13 3331333 33333331333 333333333 1?, 1333

ﬂ

3333? 3‘3 339 3333 33333333 :f333 3333 $333 3% 3 3333333 33 333333 33333
3333 33 333 3333<3333$o 333 33333333, 333 333 33533? - 33333 3333
333333 33 33333 3 33 333 33 3333 333333: 33 333333 333333 333 333* 33333
33 3 3333. 33 3333 33 333333333 33 333 3333333 33 3333 333333333333
3333 3: 1333,3333333333«3333 33 33333.3 33 33 333333 33 333 «3333333

' s 33 333 3333333 33333 333 33 333333 3H3 3 3333*“ 333333333
- av” : "a ,23 “if « j 3? 33333 33 3333 3 #3333 :33 3333 3
33.333 33 333:? ‘3333 33333 33 3 W33 33 33333333 “333333 3 333333333 3333
333 «3 1:? 333 333333 3 3333333133 33333333 3333 33 3333 333 333333 333
,331 5333f “33.

“mg
9%
'22?“
-
‘A .W
U-

.4

n‘

-'.?' 33333
33333333y,

 




 




 




 




 

'5;

 




 




 




‘F. .M o,

A‘nr»,H

, UV.-

 




 




 




 




’ UNIVERSITY MEDICAL, CENTER

NEWS The University of Texas Medical Branch A

Galveston, Texas
Vol. I, No. 1

 

Mid-September, 1960

RESEARCH GRANTS T0 BRANCH HIT
All-TIME HIGH 0F $1,775,900

Research grants and contracts negotiated by the Medical Branch of
The University of Texas. during the past year totaled a record high of
$1,775,900.41, it was announced today by Dr. John B. Truslow, executive
dean and director.

“Private and government grants in support of the Medical Branch’s
research programs is an important yardstick for measuring our progress,”
Dr. Truslow observed. “It is most gratifying that outside financial sup-

 

Dr. Logan Wilson, now Chancellor

Administrative Titles
Changed at University

On Sept. 1, several changes in the ad-
ministrative organization of The Univer-
sity of Texas were instituted, the Board
of Regents announced. -

Dr. Logan Wilson, formerly system
President, became Chancellor of The Uni-
versity of Texas system. Dr. Harry Ran-
som, Vice-President and Provost, became
President of the Main University, in Aus-
tin. Dr. Joseph R. Smiley assumed the
position of Vice-President and Provost of
the Main University.

Dr. Joseph Ray, former President of
Amarillo Junior College, succeeded Dr.
Smiley as President of Texas Western
College. Former Vice—Presidents for the
system, Lanier Cox, J. C. Dolley and L. D.
Haskew, assumed titles of Vice—Chancel-
lor’s. , _

The title of John B. Truslow, M.D., Ex—
ecutive Dean and Director of the Medical
Branch in Galveston, remains unchanged.

 

Scientific papers published, or in press,
by members of the faculty last year
totaled 520, according to a survey made
this summer by the office of the Director.

port of our research work, which is an
inseparable part of a dynamic teaching
program, has more than doubled in the
past four years, and has steadily in-
creased each year. This reflects the con-
fidence that others place in us, and in an
area where competition grows keener
each year.”

Reporting on the 12-month period end—
ing June 30, Dr. D. Bailey Calvin, direc-
tor of Grants and Contracts, noted that
every one of the 16 departments of the
School of Medicine, plus the School of
Nursing, were recipients of grants from
government or private sources, or both.

Departments receiving more than $200,-
000 in research grants were Anatomy,
Internal Medicine and Pathology. Two
departments, Surgery and Neurology and
Psychiatry, received more than $100,000,
as did the School of Nursing.

Government grants negotiated during
the year rose by $264,590 to a new high
of $1,375,028, compared with $1,110,438
in the 1958-59 period. A comparable in-
crease was reported in grants from 51
private sources, rising $77,082 to another
record high of $400,871. The previous
year’s priVate grant total was $323,798.

The grants numbered 175, and were
awarded to the Medical Branch in the
namerof 71 individual investigators, plus
more than a dozen to the Research and
Fellowship Committees. They varied
from $250 to $50,000.

Private sources were:

Abbott Laboratories, American Cancer
(Continued on Page 8)

Revised Curriculum
Now In Operation

An alternative part of the program
of the 1960 revised curriculum, allowing
students of exceptional merit to obtain
medical degrees in three years, goes into
effect for the first time this fall.

The new program will not affect the
1961 junior and senior classes, but will
be available to incoming freshmen and
sophomores.

This is how it works. A student may
apply for the new program and the fa-
culty will pass on the applicants. Those
selected may begin the program in the
fourth term of their second year by tak-
ing their elective period for credit. These
students will continue to take elective
periods for credit, thus being able to
complete their instruction in 130 weeks.

Elective opportunities will be sched-
uled by mutual agreement of the depart-
ment or other approved sponsors. As
nearly as possible, the students will be
matched with the department of their
choice for additional work.

 

Nearly a fourth of the physicians re-
sponding to a recent AMA survey re-
ported that golf was their favorite sport.
Next came fishing, then swimming, with
hunting and boating coming in last.

 

 




2

Pathology’s New Electron ’Scope
lab Will Probe Cell Abnormalities

A new electron microscope laboratory
has been opened in the Department of
Pathology, giving the Medical Branch a
diagnostic, teaching and research tool
which may lead into a new phase of medi-
cine—one in which disease will be related
to abnormalities within cells, rather than
abnormalities of cells.

Pathologists have been studying tissues
and the cells which make up tissues by
using modern medical microscopes allow-
ing magnification up to 1000 times for
many years, Dr. Howard C. Hopps, Path-
ology Chairman, explained. The new elec-
tron microscope, however, is capable of
very effective magnification up to 100,000
times and in some cases, even higher.

“This is opening an entirely new field
in pathology, which some have called
‘molecular pathology’,” Dr. Hopps said.
“For the first time the pathologist is able
to see not just the major features of the
cell, but is able to explain in minute de-
tail the characteristics of the numerous
components making up a cell.”

Thus, he explained, early changes of
disease can be recognized which were not
at all apparent before the development of
the new instrument.

The ultimate magnification of 1000
times in ordinary medical microscopes
had a limited range due to the visual
loss which is dependent upon the wave
length of light. In the electron micro-
scope, a beam of electrons traveling at
very high speeds is used instead of light
rays. Carefully controlled magnetic fields
are used to “focus” the electron beam,
rather like glass lenses focus light.

One of pathology’s important roles is
the specific diagnosis of disease from
microscopic examination of tissue re-
moved by a surgeon at the time of opera-
tion—in addition to a general concern
with causes and effects of disease. In
this capacity it often is the pathologist
who provides the necessary information
for exact diagnosis.

Magnification of tissue structures at
least 100 times more than was possible
with the ordinary light microscope means
that abnormal structure resulting from
disease can be pursued much further
than previously.

The laboratory, on the second floor of
the Keiller building, is a three-unit af-
fair including a room housing the micro-
scope itself, another room in which ultra-

ELECTRON MICROSCOPY is
ushered in at the Medical Branch’s
Pathology Department. Left is Dr.

thin sections of tissues are made, and a
third room housing the photographic
laboratory essential to the work, since
almost all critical study is based upon
photographs taken with the instrument.

Tissues must be cut as thin as a hun-
dred-1000ths of an inch—which is 200
times thinner than sections ordinarily cut
for examination with the conventional
microscope. In the early stages of de-
velopment of the electron microscope, in-
dustrial research spent vast sums at-
tempting to perfect new cutting edges
sharp and hard enough to slice material
sufficiently thin to allow light to pass
through it for this use. The attempts
failed. But almost by accident it was dis-
covered that the edge produced by care-
fully snapping ordinary plate glass was
sharp and hard enough to provide the
needed knives.

Medical Branch researchers make most
of their own cutting tools from bits of
plate glass salvaged from scraps from
a local glass firm, but diamond cutting
edges also are used for special purposes.

The team which will be working prin-
cipally with-the microscope, in addition
to Dr. Hopps, are Dr. Alfonso J. Strano,
who received his M. D. degree here this
Spring, and Robert Turner, who is direc-

(Continued on Page 7)

 

EXAMS NOTICE

October 17 and 18:

Texas State Boards of Basic
Science Examiners at Austin.

December 1:

Texas State Board of Medical
Examiners.

 

 

 

 

Howard C. Hopps, chairman, With
Dr. Alfonso J. Strano of the de-
partment’s research team.

Galveston C of C To
Host Student Dance

Galveston’s Chamber of Commerce, for
the second year, will play host to stu-
dents of the School of Medicine, the
School of Nursing, and all paramedical
students of the Medical Branch at 3 din-
ner dance to be held at the Moody Cen-
ter Saturday night, Sept. 17.

David Nathan heads the committee for
the Chamber, and Dr. John McGivney
is serving as coordinator between the
Chamber and a student committee headed
by Donald Van Fossan, president of the
Student A.M.A., and Ira Goldstein.

Members of the Chamber will join the '
students and their dates at the dance,
which is expected to attract from 1200
to 1500 people. Last year’s dance was a
memorable affair, playing to a packed
house at Moody Center.

The Chamber’s Medical Affairs Com- .
mittee, sponsors of the dance, announced
that they will give a cocktail party for
the students, from 7 to 8 p. m., to be fol—
lowed by a buffet dinner and dancing to
the music of Manny Green’s orchestra.
Written invitations will be sent to all
students, and the Chamber’s entire mem-
bership is being invited to attend.

 




Two-Campus Nursing Program Underway

School of Nursing students begin ma-
triculating on two campuses—both here
and- in Austin—for the first time this

month as The University’s program for.

young women aspiring to a bachelor of
science degree in nursing goes into ef-
fect.

Although final figures on Nursing
School enrollment will not be available
for another week, it is estimated that
about 45 students will be participating
in the BS program, and in a baccalaure-
ate program for registered nurses there,
according to Associate Professors Ruth
McFarland and Billye Brown, and AsSist-
ant Professor Mitzi Nuhn, Medical
Branch faculty members now on the Aus-
tin campus.

The new BS program offers two years
of college life on the Main Campus, to be
followed by two years of study here at
the Medical Branch.

The wisdom of such a program is mani-
fold, says Marjorie Bartholf, dean of
The School of Nursing in Galveston and
Austin.

“In recent years, the nation as well as
Texas has been faced with an acute nurs-
ing shortage. A lot of this is caused by
an even more acute shortage of nurses
in teaching fields.

“Not only is this new basic collegiate
nursing program designed to provide
well—rounded exposure to the arts and
humanities plus clinical training, but it
will produce graduate nurses who can go
into nursing education. The more well-
trained nursing teachers there are avail-
able, the more women we can educate in
the field of nursing.”

Actually the School of Nursing offers
basic four-year college programs in two
categories, Dean Bartholf said.

The second program allows a nursing
student to spend her freshman year at
another college or university. If she has
the required 42 semester hours she will
come to The Medical Branch’s School of
Nursing in her sophomore year.

The School also offers programs for
registered nurses to obtain college de-
grees and a graduate program for regis—
tered nurses to obtain a master’s degree.

Registration for the School of Nursing
is scheduled to begin September 14
through 19.

 

A student—faculty floor show is being
planned, and the Branch’s choir will be
on the program. Refreshments during
dancing hours will be on a BYOL basis,
Van Fossan announced.

 

   
   

A Syndrome Is Born

.gs ,
1;,

of the 1960 Syndrome, displays the
first copy of the student yearbook,
just off the presses. The book re-
views aren’t in yet, but it’s rec-
ommended reading, and excellent
viewing thanks to Editor Zung’s
perceptive understanding of the en-
tire medical branch, and to his con-
siderable talent and his staff’s as
candid cameramen. Extra c0pies
are on hand, and may be ordered
at $5 each through campus mail.
Address requests to The Syndrome,
1960.

 

WILLIAM W. K. ZUNG, editor

Titus Harris Club
To Hold First Session

The Titus Harris Society, formed by

'doctors who took their residencies in

neurology and psychiatry here, will hold
its first annual meeting in Galveston Sat-
urday, Sept. 17. An estimated 125 mem-
bers, many accompanied by wives and
families, are expected to attend.

The group will meet in Moody Center
Auditorium all day Saturday, and an in-
formal dinner will precede the affair Fri-
day night. The meeting will end with a
brunch and business session at Moody
Center Sunday morning, according to Dr.
Abe Hauser of Houston, president.

Saturday’s meetings will include morn-
ing and afternoon scientific programs,
and Congressman Clark Thompson will
be the luncheon speaker. A dinner meet-
ing is planned for Saturday night at the
Galvez Hotel.

Dr. Harris’ name is synonymous with
advances in psychiatry and neurology in
Texas, and the reputation he has gained
for the Medical Branch in that field is
international in scope. His entire career
has been dedicated to work here.

After graduation in 1919, he became
an instructor in Medicine under Dr. M. L.
Graves, continued on as assistant profes-
sor, and became the first professor and
head of Neurology and Psychiatry in
1926. When the school’s residency pro-
gram was certified in 1930, he became the
department chairman and has filled that
post with distinction ever since.

 

SILENT PICTURE, left,
will be meaningless to the
Medical School’s incoming
class of 145 first-year stu-
dents. But to 333 upper-
classmen who remember
the noise level of the main
lecture hall on the first
floor of the Keiller Build-
ing, when several tons of
air conditioning equipment
was located inside the
room, will understand the
significance of summer-
time renovations. The air
= conditioning was moved
into new enclosures in the
corridors, saving wear and
tear on professors’ voices,
and student ears. However,
major renovations of Keil-
ler will continue all year.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IHIEHHS
1960

 

Dr. William Charles
Bosworth, 25, Foundation
Apt. B-9, received his M.
D. degree from the Uni-
versity of Oklahoma. He
is married, from Norman,
Oklahoma, and is serving
his internship in Medicine.

 

Dr. Donald Robert Car-
ter, 26, Apt. 202-C, Nolan
Hall received his M. D. at
the University of Oklaho-
ma. He is married, from
Poteau, Oklahoma, and is
serving a rotating intern-
ship.

 

29, of 613% Ave. F, re-
ceived his M.D. degree at
the University of Oklaho-
ma School of Medicine.
He is married, from Ok-
lahoma City, and is serv-
ing a rotating internshlp.

 

Dr. Charles Raymond
Broman, 26, 519 North
Boulevard, received his
M. D. degree from the
University of Kansas. He
is from Salina, Kansas,
married, and is serving a
rotating internship.

Dr.WR 1 c h

a rd Harvey
Cord, 30, Room 202, Beth-
el Hall, received his M.D.
at the Medical College of
Alabama. He is from Bir-
mingham, and is serving
a rotatlng internship

 

Dr. Lowell Evans BET

 

   
  

 

 

m; William Dewntt

 

Hall, received her M. D.
degree from The Univers-
ity of Texas Medical
Branch. Dr. Baughan is
from Duluth, Minn., and
serving her internship in
Medicine.

 

Dr.
26, Apt. 302-A, Nolan Hall,
received his M. D. from
the University of Texas
Medical Branch, is mar-
ried and serving his in-
ternship in Medicine. Dr
Cantrell

is from Green-

ville, Texas.

George, Jr., 24, 1301 Har-
rlsway, received his M. D.
degree at The University
of Texas Medical Branch.

e 1s married, from Com-
merce, Texas, and is serv-
ing an internship in medi-
cine.

 

"DrMa rWJ—a—ITICWA n nW
' Baughan, Room 209, Clay

 

  

William cantrénf

   

w a. . '
Dr. Donald C. Gilliland,

 

 

Dr. Paul Bennett II, 26,
Room 216, Bethe] Hall, re-
ceived his M. D. degree at
Northwestern University
in Chicago, Illinois. He is
serving a rotating intern-
ship. Dr. Bennett is from
Wilmette, Illinois.

Dr. Charles R. Capers,
28, 2101 29th Street, re—
ceived his M. D. degree
from the University of
Texas Medical Branch. He
is married, from Mex1a,
Texas. Dr. Capers is serv-
ing his internship in Medi-

cine.

5“ a,

3

27. A t. 201-E, Nolan
Hall, raceived his M. D.
at the University of Olg-
lahoma School of Medi-
cine, is married, from Ok-
lahoma City, and IS serv-
ing a rotating internship.

 

 

    




 

Dr. Alex Kramer Gup,
26. 43 Bayou Shores, re-
ceived his M. D. at Emory
University in Atlanta, Ga.
He is married and from
Pensacola, Florida. Dr.
Cup is serving an intern-
ship in straight medicine.

Dr. John Bruce Kenne-
dy, 28, Room 105, Bethel
Hall, received his M. D.
degree from the Univers-
ity of Washington. »He is
from Everett, Washington
and is serving a rotating
internship.

Dr. David Lee Matheson,
26, Art. 301—A, Nolan
Hall, received his M. D.
degree at the University
of Washington in Seattle.
He 1s married, a native of
Seattle and is serving a
rotating internship.

 

 

    

 

Dr. Frances Louise
Herbst, 116 Tarpon, re-
ceived her M. D. degree
at The University of Tex-
as Medical Branch. She is
a resident of Galveston
and is serving a rotating
internship.

Dr. Patricia A. Lang,
210 Clay Hall, received
her M. D. degree from the
University of Texas Medi-
cal Branch. She is from
Mercedes, Texas, and is
serving an internship in
Medicine.

 

 

 

Dr.‘ Warren G. Johnson,
33, 619 13th St., received
his M. D. degree from the
University of Texas Medi-
cal Branch. He is married,
a resident of Galveston,
and is serving a rotating
internship.

Dr. Floyd J. Lashley,
27, Room 211, Bethel Hall,
received his M. D. degree
from the University of
Oklahoma. He is from
Tulsa, married, and is
serving a rotating intern-
ship.

 

Dr. Irving L. Myers, 30,
Foundation Apt. A—9, re-
ceived his M. D. degree
from Ohio State Univers-
ity. He is married, from
Columbus, and is serving
a rotating internship.

Dr. Keith W. McLarnan,
26, Room 205, Bethel Hall,
received his M. D. degree
at the State University of
Iowa. He is from Sioux
City, and is serving a ro-
tating internshlp.

    

..... EWI-_

 

 

 

Dr. Glen E. Journeay,
35, 509 21st Ave. N., Tex-
as City, received his MD.
degree at The University
of Texas Medical Branch.
He is married, from Angle-
ton, Texas, and is serving
a rotating internship.

Dr. John Robert Madl-
son, 25, Room 108, Bethel
Hall, received his M. D.
degree at Ohio State Uni-
versity. He is from Saline-
ville, Ohio, and is serving
a rotating internship.

 

Dr. Darrell Jack Names,
33, 619 13th St., received
his M. D. degree from The
University of Texas Medi-
cal Branch, is married, a
Galveston resident, and is
serving a rotating intern-
ship.

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. Marvm G. Parker,
26, Apt. 20-1-A, Nolan Hall,
received his M. D. degree
from the University of
Missouri, is from Joplin,
married, and serving a ro-
tating internship.

    

Dr. Homer Lee Reeves,
29, 619 13th St., received
his M. D. degree from The
University of Texas Medi-
cal Branch, is married,
from McKinney, Texas,
and is serving a rotating
internship.

 

Dr. Hisashi Tamura, 26,
Room 115, Bethe] Hall, re-
ceived his M. D. degree
from the University of
Tokyo School of Medicine.
He is from Morioka City,
Japan and is serving a ro-
tating internship.

 

Dr. Socrates W. Pappas,
25, Room 209, Bethel Hall,
received his M. D. degree
at the University of Ar-
kansas, and is serving a

rotating internship. Dr.
Pappas is from . Hot
Springs.

 

 

Dr. Jerome Randolph
Ryan, 26, Apt. 201-B, No-
lan Hall, received his MD.
degree from the George-
town University School of
Medicine, is married, from
Bunkie, Louisiana, ,and is
serving an internship in
medicine.

Dr. Satoru Tochimoto,
28, Room 209, Bethe] Hall,
received his M. D. degree
from Tokyo Medical and
Dental University. He is
from Fukushima, Japan
and is serving a rotating
internship.

 

 

 

 

Dr. Richard M. Smith,
29, Apt. 202-A, Nolan
Hall, received his M. D.
degree from the Univers-
ity of Mississippi. He is
married, from Grenada,
Miss., and is serving a ro-
tating internship.

 

    

Dr. Glory Joan Vilbig,
923 Ave. C, received her
M. D. degree from Uni-
versity of Texas Medical
Branch. Dr. Vilbig is from
Dallas, and is serving a
rotating internship.

Dr. R o b e r t Anthony
Quint, 25, Room 108, Beth—
el Hall, received his M. D.
from Ohio State Univers-
ity, is from Columbus, and
is serving a rotating in-
ternship.

 

 

Dr. oyce Ehman Re-
detzki, 918 Market Street,
received her M. D. degree
from The University of
Texas Medical Branch.
She is from Waco, mar-
ried and serving a rota-
ting internship.

   
   

Dr. Alfonso J. Strano,
33, 1311 Church, received
his M. D. degree at The
University of Texas Medi-
cal Branch. He is married,
a resident of Galveston
and is serving an intern-
ship in pathology.

Dr. Thomas Harold Wil-
liams, Jr., 26, of 1509 Me—
chanic, received his M. D.
degree from The Univers-
ity of Texas Medical
Branch, is from Odessa,
married and is serving a
rotating internship.

 




 

Paderewski -- Virtuoso With Plastics

, N. J ., came to Galveston in 1946.

The worlds of art and medicine would
seem to be literally a “world” apart.

But in the department of surgery at
The University of Texas Medical Branch,
they are‘working hand in hand.

Many patients who have suffered dis-
figurement because of injury or neces-
sary surgery are continuing a life with-
out embarrassment with the help of
Sculptor Joseph Paderewski.

With Paderewski’s skillful hands, an
eye, ear, nose—most any part of the face
——can be replaced with a plastic replica
that is barely noticeable from the real
thing.

It all started about eight years ago,
when the sculptor was commissioned by
Medical Branch officials to create the
bust of Ashbel Smith, first dean of the
Texas Medical College in 1873, the Medi-
cal Branch’s predecessor.

At that time Paderewski was an owner
of a ceramics shop in Galveston, travel-
ing back and forth to Houston as cellist
in the Houston Symphony Orchestra. (In-

cidentally, he is no relation to the famed g

musician and first premier of Poland.)

The artist, 46,15 a ntlev of Lindne,

 

Besides his designing prostheses, Pad-
erewski also designs and produces colored
plastic surgical models, which show surg-
ery techniques for teaching purposes.

Although this work has opened up an
entirely new career for the sculptor, it
was not entirely strange to him, for a
sculptor must have a good working
knowledge of bone structure and muscles.

“It’s a new challenge every day and
certainly the most r‘ewarding in personal
satisfaction,” he said in his laboratory on
John Sealy Hospital’s eighth floor.

Not long ago the Sculptor: came to the
aid of a burned seaman who had lost
both ears in an explosion. Paderewski
made a cast of the sides of the man’s
head, then designed plastic ears, tinting
them to the exact color of the seaman’s
skin. They can be easily held in place
with the aid of an adhesive.

Paderewski had his art training at
Cooper Union and Columbia University
in New York.

    

 

New Electron ’Scope
(Continued From Page 2)

tor of the technical operations of the

laboratory. It will be used by them, and

by others extensively in the Department’s

research programs. The cost was about

$30,000.

This is the Medical Branch’s third elec-
tron microscope. Two others are used for
research and advanced medical training
in the Department of Anatomy.

 

 

UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER
NEws-

The University of Texas
Medical Branch, Galveston

John B. Truslow, M. D.
Executive Dean and Director

Ralph W. Myers
Assistant Director

Zella R. Maxwell
Editor

George W. Newman
Art Editor

Frank W. Schmidt
Photo Editor

William V. Vanecek
Production Manager

 

 

 

Director' 8 Letter:

This is the debut of a publication we
have long needed at the Medical Center.
Its aims will be as much to inform our-
selves as to inform our friends in the
community and State about the multi-
tude and variety of programs and serv-
ices, of accomplishments and needs, and
of progress and development in this com-
plex and exciting institution. I wonder
how many of you realize that every day
there are at least 5000 people—students,
faculty, staff, patients, visitors —— in-
volved in our operation. It is the size
of a small city. As this journal develops
over the months and years ahead, the
editors will need your friendly criticism
and comment. Reader interest is the
primary goal of a valuable and informa-

tive journal.
(A

School Started

Downtown

In 1866, The Galveston Medical College,
predecessor to The Medical Branch, was
located originally at the corner of 22nd
and Post Office Street on the second
floor of a wood frame building.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Research Grants

(Continued From Page 1)

Society, American Heart Assn., Ameri-
can Medical Assn., American Petroleum
Institute, Baker Laboratories, Brown-
Hazen Fund, Burroughs Welcome Co.,
Combustion Engineering, Inc., Ciba Phar-
maceutical;

Commonwealth Fund, Damon Runyon
Memorial Fund for Cancer; Dr. William
J. deGroot, Eaton Laboratories; Garber
Baby Foods, Galveston County Heart
Assn., Hartz Mountain Products, Hogg
Foundation, Houston Endowment Fund,
Island City Iron & Supply, Inc., Johnson
& Johnson;

Jeane B. Kempner Fund, Harris and
Eliza Kempner Fund, W. K. Kellogg
Foundation, Lederle Laboratories, McCar-
thy Burn Research, Medical Research
Foundation of Texas, Merck, Sharp &
Dohme, McLaughlin Fund, Multiple
Sclerosis Fund;

National Fund for Medical Education,
National Muscular Dystrophy Fund, The
National Foundation, National Society
for Prevention of Blindness, National
Live Stock and Meat Board, Phillips
Chemical Co., Research Corporation, Rob—
ertson-Poth Foundation;

Sealy and Smith Foundation, Maco
Stewart, Sam Woodson, Smith, Kline
and French Laboratories, Sandoz Phar-
maceuticals, Sahyun Laboratories, Tobac-
co Industry Research Committee; Upjohn
Company;

J. W. Winterbotham, Warner-Chilcott
Laboratories, Winthrop Laboratories,
Welch Foundation and Wyeth Labora-
tories.

United States government funds were
granted by the Public Health Service, the
Armed Forces, the National Science
Foundation and the Department of 'Agri-
culture.

 

UNIVERSITY MEDICAL C ENTER

Galveston, Texas

Research Grants and Contracts

$1,775,900

$1,434,233
$400,871

$323,798

$1,080,533

3265,84
$822311

$1,375,028
$248,356

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'56-'57 '57-'58 '58-'59 ’59-'60

[:l '_: US. Government
- _‘ Private Sources

Book Store, Lounge
Move to Smith Bldg.

Within 45 days renovation and re-
modeling work will be finished on Stu-
dent Lounge in the east wing of the
Ashbel Smith Building’s first floor. Com—
bined with the refurbished Lounge will
be the Medical Branch Book Store.

In the interim, the book store is housed
in temporary quarters in the west Wing
of the same building. It was moved from
its former location on Mechanic street
late in August.

 

 

Miss Virginia Dryden

Assistant Dean
School of Nursing

Biology Papers
Asked For Texas
Academy Meeting

Dr. Donald Duncan, Anatomy Chair-
man, who is vice president of the biology
section of the Texas Academy of Science,
has asked the faculty to participate in
the Texas Academy’s annual meeting to
be held at Texas Christian University in
Fort Worth December 2-3. Original re—
search, with a limited number of reviews,
are sought.

“Most of those who attend the biologi-
cal section are interested in medicine and
in premedical education,” Dr. Duncan ad-
vises. “I believe they welcome any ges-
ture from the medical schools that leads
to a greater sense of common purpose
and a greater feeling of mutual respect
between the non—medical biologist and
faculties of medicine.”

Dr. Duncan points out that there is evi-
dence fromthe Branch’s admissions com-
mittee report of 1959 that we matricu—
lated 74—or 43 per cent—of Texas’ ap-
plicants with averages of 85, (GPA 2.0)
or above, leaving the other two schools in
Texas, and out-of-state schools to share
the remaining 57 per cent.

“As the oldest, biggest and best medi—
cal school in Texas we should get more
of the pick of the crop,” he said, adding
that participation in programs like that
of The Texas Academy of Science is a
promising avenue of approach to men in
Texas who can be helpful in directing
well-qualified applicants to Galveston.

 

Dr. Charles H. Mayo: “Medicine is
about as big or as little in any commun-
ity, large or small, as the physicians
make it.”

Room 103, Brackenridge Hall

 




The University of Texas
Medical Center NEWS

Mid-November, 1962

Research Grants Rise
31 Per Cent for Year,
Record $2,684,603

Grants and contracts negotiated dur-
ing the past year for research, fellow-
ships. and training grants at The Uni-
versity of Texas Medical Center totaled
$2,684,60‘3—an increase of 31 per cent
over the previous 12-month period, it was
announced today by Dr. John B. Trus-
low, executive dean and director.

 

\ GA'NES'I'ON “TEXAS - MD CCC XC I

 

 

vol. III, —No. 3

Galveston, Texas

Medical, Nursing Students To See
Army Stage Atomic Disaster Show

The U. S. Army Medical Center at Fort Sam Houston will be host
to students and faculty members of schools of medicine and nursing
at an intensive two-day program in disaster training in San Antonio‘
December 12th to the 14th.

The Junior class of the School of Medicine, the Senior class of the
School of Nursing, 20 faculty members from both schools and 10 stu-
dents representing other medical school classes will leave the campus
at 10:30 a. men December 12 on chartered buses. Indoctrination lec-
tures and demonstrations by military operations and medical personnel
will be given the group at Fort Sam Houston through the 13th. On

Significance of the figures is that sup—
port for research and allied training ac-
tivities "which contribute greatly to the

Friday, the 14th, the group will be con-
voyed to Fort Bullis where hundreds of
Army personnel with Air Force support
will stage a dramatic and realistic atomic
attack on troops deployed throughout
the rugged training areas.

From strategicially placed bleachers,
the visitors will observe the dramatic
maneuvers, be given running lectures on
the action, and then will move to rear
areas to observe in detail the military
methods employed in handling casualties
under field conditions, the operation of
aid stations and field hospitals, Dr.
Truman G. Blocker, Jr., coordinator of
the Medical Education for National De-
fense program here, announced.

The field exercise, named “Operation
Mendex,” marks the third special event
staged by military personnel at Fort Sam
Houston for Medical Center students
since the M.E.N.D. affiliation was es-
tablished here in 1957. Last year top
military specialists came to Galveston

for an extensive lecture program, “Oper-~

ation Guidon,” attended by the entire stu-
dent body at Moody Center. MEND’s
two initial field exercises, the first con-
ducted jointly with Baylor University
College of Medicine, was the setting up
and operation of the 200-bed mobile hos-
pital which is stationed here. (There now
are 90 such units in Texas, and would
play an important part in survival in the
event of a national disaster.)
Introductory lectures on the 13th will
cover such subjects as the impact of nu-

 

clear weapons on national survival, blast
and thermal effects, characteristics of
nuclear weapon radiations, sorting of
casualties and establishment of priority
for patient care in disaster.

Otherswill cover the state’s civil de-
fense organization, preventive medicine
aspects of disaster, and organization of
infantry units and their medical support.

“Operation Blowup,” the atomic attack
demonstration at Camp Bullis, will be a
realistic mock battle, showing how an
attacking army unit could be subjected
to an atomic retaliation. The event will
include discussion, narration and demon-
stration by troops of the field action, and
students later will participate in the
capability of an emergency corps under
field conditions.

They will tour a division clearing sta-
tion and watch the operation of a
mobile army surgical hospital, move
through areas where casualties are being
moved and given field aid, and will see
demonstrations of how military medical
techniques are applied to the task of sort-
ing wounded and identifying and routing
casualties needing immediate care.

Students and faculty members will be
housed in officer’s quarters at Fort Sam
Houston, eat at the regular mess halls
and return to Galveston by chartered
buses on the night of the 14th.

 

overall growth and development of the
total educational program has more than
tripled since 1956-’57, when the level of
support was $822,000.

Research grants awarded in the name
of 78 principal investigators and the
administrative office of Dr. Truslow to-
taled $2,381,959, the School of Nursing
received support, including scholarship
awards, of $133,867, the Fellowship Com-
mittee administered $76,535 in gifts and
grants and miscellaneous grants ac-
counted for another $82,242.

U. S. Public Health Service grants to
the office of Dr. Truslow for general re-
search support and a general clinical re-
search center totaled $516,575, and an-
other from the National Science Foun-
dation for research programs was for
$6,338.

Surgery led all the departments, with
22 grants totaling $273,298. Pathology
was second with $269,569, Physiology
third with $231,892, followed by Internal
Medicine, $186,514; Anatomy, $142,771;
Microbiology, $139,902, and Neurology
and Psychiatry with $120,728. Every de-
partment contributed to the total re-
search effort, and other leaders in grant
receipts of from $25,000 to $95,000 in-
cluded Pediatrics, Biochemistry and Nu-
trition, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Radi-
ology, Pharmacology and Preventive
Medicine-Public Health.

Grants from private individuals, trust

funds, non-profit organizations, com-
(Continued on Page 8)

 

 




FORTRAN Courses
For Faculty and Staff

Twenty members of the faculty and
staff signed up for a series of two-hour
courses of instruction on the general
aspects of computer usage in medicine
this week, according to Dr. A. W. B.
Cunningham, director of the new Re-
search Computation Center. A score of
others took similar instruction through-
out the summer, and next month similar
courses will be held for secretarial and
technical personnel.

Application should be made at the
office of Dr. Cunningham, Room 200,
Keiller Bldg.

The Center’s objective is to perform
all the requested statistical treatments
of data required by the investigator
within 24 hours, “but this will depend
upon the bulk of the raw data and the
number of requests for processing,” the
Center announced. The requests will be
dealt with in strict rotation in the order
in which the date arrives at the Center

Miss Bartholf To Retire, Effective Aug. 31,
After Heading School Of Nursing 20 Years

The retirement of Miss Marjorie Bart-
holf as‘ dean of the School of Nursing
effective Aug. 31, 1962, was announced
this month by Dr. John B. Truslow,
executive dean and director. Miss Bart-
hholf has served in the post 20- years.

In 1944, when the newly created de-
partment of nursing education and the
College of Nursing were joined to form
the School of Nursing here, Miss Bart-
holf was named to the deanship. How-
ever, for two previous years she had
headed the School’s predecessor as di-
rector of the John Sealy College of
Nursing.

Before coming to Galveston in 1942-,
she was assistant director of the Cook
County (111.) School of Nursing, in
charge of the communicable disease
unit of the Cook County Hospital where
she was a member of the executive com-

mittee. A native Chicagoan, Miss Bart-
holf received her A.B. degree from the
University of Wisconsin and a diploma
of nursing from the Evanston Hospital
School of Nursing. She was awarded
an M.S. degree from the University of
Chicago in 1937.

During her tenure at The University
Medical Center, the School of Nursing’s
new curriculum leading to the degree
of Bachelor of Science in Nursing Edu—
cation was activated and a degree pro-
gram leading to a Bachelor of Science
in Nursing for graduates of a diploma
program was established.

The curriculum was broadened in 1952
to offer a program leading to a degree
of Master of Science in Nursing with a
major in nursing service administration.
Three years later the school first offered
additional specializations, participating
in the program of the Southern Regional
Education Board for graduate education
in nursing.

Miss Bartholf is a member of the
American Nurses’ Association, the Na-
tional League of Nursing and the Asso-
ciation of American University Women.

 

Tranquilizing drugs have revolution-
ized the care of state mental hospital
patients and brought about a sustained

annual reduction in state hospital popu-‘

lations. At the end of 1960, there were
535,269 patients in state hospitals, a re-
markable reduction of more than 23,000
patients since 1955. In the decade fol-
lowing the close of World War II, this
is a saving of $1,760,000,000 in con-
struction costs alone.

MEDICINE AT WORK, July, 1962

 

Page 2

Dean Marjorie Bartholf

SYNDROME “FROZEN” AS
BOOK FIRM IS BANKRUPT

An indefinite delay in delivery of the
1961-’62 Syndrome was announced by
Herb Steinback, president of the Student
American Medical Association, who re-
ported that the student annual was con-
tracted to an Austin publishing firm
which went into bankruptcy this Fall.

 

Announcement of the appointment of
the court as receivers for Color Press
Publishers arrived the same week that
delivery of the publication was due.
SAMA was advised that the book and
part of the investment is tied up and
it may take several months to secure
a release of the book, which must be
done before negotiations can be made
with another company to complete it.

 

Pediatrics PG Course
Scheduled Feb. 14-16

The annual Post-Graduate Course of
the Department of Pediatrics, which
draws physicians from all sections of
the state, will be held here Feb. 14-16,

Dr. Myron Nichols, program chairman,
announced.

Guest speakers, who will augment a
full program of lectures and ward rounds
by staff members of the Department,

in a suitable form.

The courses are being held in the
Biochemistry Laboratory in the Gail
Borden Building.

 

Kempner Scholarship
Applications Due

Applications for the Jeane B. Kemp-
ner Scholarship for 1962-’63 are now
being received by the Fellowship Com-

«mittee, it was announced, and the dead-

line is Jan. 8. The Fund was created
under the will of Daniel W. Kempner,
who died in 1956, the income “to be used
and expended for the purpose of giving
financial aid to exceptionally brilliant
students . . . to assist and encourage
them in pursuing advanced studies in the
fields of Internal Medicine and Surg-
ery following the student’s normal
undergraduate years of study . . .”

The committee recommends that spe-
cial consideration be given to those who
may be expected to continue in academic
work, and particularly those who give
promise of eventually returning to the
Medical Center in a teaching and re-
search capacity.

 

will include Dr. A. M. Bongiovanni, en-
drocinologist of the University of Penn-
sylvania; Dr. Robert E. Deisher of the
University of Washington, Dr. Louis K.
Diamond of Harvard Medical School and
Dr. Warren Wheeler of Ohio State Un1—_
versity.

 

 




 

Your School’s Tradition—

The Ashbel Smith’Sketch, Part II

One hundred and twenty-three
Novembers ago “a stiff norther”
ended the-blistering and wet sum-
mer of 1839 in Galveston. It also
brought about a sudden abatement
of a yellow fever
epidemic which
had decimated
the island’s popu-
lation in six hor-
rible weeks.

And Dr. Ashbel
Smith, Surgeon
General of The
Texas Army, hav-
ing completed his
eighth dissection,
began writing his
“Account of Yel-
low Fever in Gal-
veston in 1839” to
give Texas its first published medi-
cal treatise.

His report is a splendid example of how
slow and tortuous is the road of medical
research toward truth. Had his imagina—
tion flown a bit higher he could have re-
duced by sixty years Mankind’s wait for
the discovery of the carrier of an epi-
demic disease which plagued the seacoast
towns of America for a century.

 

Yet his observations approached the
truth, with most of his introductory
pages devoted to a careful account of
the temperatures, the wind direction, the
rainfall, the proximity of the epidemic
area to marshy, undrained lowlands.
These were all clues to the mystery,
which remained unsolved until the Span-
ish-American War, when the mosquito
was established as the insect which trans-
mitted the virus.

The thirty-four year old physician’s re—
port is a superior example of organized
detail by a trained clinical observer. A
preface was followed by a geographical,
topical and meteorological description of
the island and season. Then came a de-
scription of the disease and its stages;
pathological observations; chapters on
treatment prognosis, contagion, mortal-
ity and “general remarks.” The pamphlet
was concluded with 31 case histories.

The NEWS will refer those interested
in the medical details to the Library,
confining this sketch to interesting gen-
eralities of the time and event.

Dr. Smith did not shy away from ad-

mitting the epidemic nature of the calam-
ity. “The necessity of such a history,” he
explained in his preface, “in the event of
our being again visited with this or any
similar scourge, will be strongly felt by
those who remember the absurd denial
of the existence of Yellow Fever among
us, and the more gross ignorance of those
who wasted in idle disputes about the
name of the disease, that time which
might have been better devoted to the
sick and to the employment of
sanitary measures for preventing the ex-
tension of the Epidemic.

“Many knew not for a short time what
to believe—and it was incredible that
Galveston, although situated on a low
level Island, with New Orleans on one
side, Tampico and Vera Cruz on the
other, with the Havana in front—all of
them the habitations of endemic Yellow

Fever—should not be afflicted with the
same disease.

“And when the author of this pamphlet
first declared the existence of Yellow
Fever in this city, it was received by a
few with as unkind a spirit as if he had
been the author of the pestilence.”

A few sentences later, however, he
adds the hope that the “recent Epidemic
ought to excite in the citizens of Gal—
veston no distrust in the general health-
fulness of this city” adding that “no part
of the world is exempt from epidemic dis-
eases.

Later he put in another plug for the
island: “The City of Galveston is yet
scarcely two years old and is estimated
already to contain from two thousand
to twenty-five hundred souls. The houses

 

are framed buildings, most of them
painted white, and in their external ap-
pearance resembling the neatest houses
of this sort in the small towns of the
Eastern States. For general healthful?
ness Galveston Island including the City,
is probably unsurpassed by any place in
the world.”

His report pinpointed the beginning of
the epidemic, and its locale.

“Galveston continued in the enjoyment
of its general healthfulness, the pres-
ent season furnishing very few cases of
severe disease, and these were mostly
contracted elsewhere, until the latter part
of September. About this time a Mr.
Tichenor, keeping a retail store on the
Strand, died rather suddenly with well
defined symptoms as was reported of
Yellow Fever.

“Two or three days afterwards I was
called to see a Mr. Lang in the Ten Pin
Alley on the Strand . . . presenting the
prominent symptoms of the same dis—
ease. In the progress of this case blood
oozed freely from the patient’s gums for
sixty hours. He nevertheless recovered
promptly. At this time, September 30th,
I was called to see in consultation H.
Abrahams, who had been sick for three
or four days. I found him with a vio-
lent hiccough, and an irritability of the
stomach, which suffered nothing to rest
upon it. In a few hours the Black Vomit
unequivocally declared itself; he died the
next day, and the body became a deep
yellow hue.”

He linked a short-lived north wind, and
a drop in temperature with a time ele-
ment in which “the epidemic appeared
to be suddenly arrested for a period of
about sixty hours.”
Although he failed to recognize breed-
ing places for mosquitoesas an exact
(Continued on Page 6)

“General Hospital”— Galveston, 1841

 

 

A rnile and a Elf fro an-y habitation, it stood alone in

  

the desert, dead, silent and seemingly aloof from all living and active

Christian sympathy.”

Page 3

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

SCHOOL OF NURSING SOPHOMORES WHO WILL COME HERE FROM AUSTIN NEXT FALL

The ranks of young people working toward degrees
of bachelor of science in nursing at The University of
Texas grew ”again this year, with 62 sophomores regis-
tered in the classes at Austin and here in Galveston.

The NEWS today presents pictures of 40 sophomores
onthe Austin campus. These students, who are receiving
their first clinical experience at our affiliated hospital
of St.

rooms on the Main Campus, will come to Galveston in

David's, in addition to academic work in class-

September. At that time they will join 22 other soph-

omores who are in class here to start work on a two-

  
  

    

GRACE BERTSCHLER
Galveston

MAUD IE ATES
Houston

 

.§ ‘5‘ ~
I; ‘7‘“;

DENNA J. BUTSCHEK
Houston

LINDA CARTER
San Antonio

 

MIKE GlLLlAM
Tyler

VIRGINIA GRACE
Phillips

 

FREDA BONIFIELD
Big Spring

  

year program of upper class studies leading to 8.5. de-
grees. Thus next Fall's Junior Class promises to bethe
largest ever in the School of Nursing degree program,

A five-man School of Nursing faculty at Austin,

under Assistant Dean Marilyn Willman, coordinates the

two-campus program at the Capitol, where other prog-

rams offer degrees for RN's, and where 80 freshmen

enrolled in the B. S. program this year. The two-cam-

pus enrollment in all nursing

record 262.

programs now totals a

 

JO BRATTON
Austin

BILLIE JO BRANDAN
San Antonio

      

DONNA DEEN MARILYN JO FLOYD LYNDA FRY
Sumter, S.C. LosAngeles, Calif. Barker

  

BENNIE GRAY

Baytown

   

 

CHRISTINE HATCH
Austin

KAY HANDY
Austin




          
    
  
    
    

    
    
    
    

  
    
    
    

    

 

   

ROBERTA HAZLIP NANCY Lo HEATER ANN JOHNSON MILDRED S. JOHNSON ARRON L. MILLER, JR.
Midland Victoria Hughes Spring Austin San Antonio

 

   

CAZZIE MILLER MAXINE MORELAND CHARLOTTE MUNGER MELAINE MURRAY DIEM NGUYEN:
Dallas Dayton Anahuac San Antonio Saigon, Viet Nam

  
  
    

     

DING K. PHAM MARTHA PHILLIPS JOYCE QUANDT JIMMY REED SUSAN RIEGNER
Saigon, Viet Nam Harlingen Marlin Austin PortArthur

    
    

'SHIELA SAMUELS DONNA SCHNEIDER BECKY SEKALY GEORGE E. SHOCKLEY, JR. CHARLENE STRADER
Houston Taylor Galveston Tyler Houston

 

 

     

J/ICKI TAYLOR CLEO THOMAS SUZANNE TOMLINSON BECKY WHEELER SUSAN WARD
Austin Big Spring Fredericksburg Winnsboro Corpus Christi

 

 




 

 

 

Ashbel Smith Sketch

(Continued from Page 3)

contribution to the .epidemic, he came
close when he reported:

“Had the appropriate sanitary meas—
uresl,been taken at the time the disease
was suspended by a fall of the mer-
cury to 671/2 degrees it is reasonable
to suppose that it might have been per-
manently arrested. But the efforts of the
citizens even then were paralyzed by
the absurd denial of a few who feared
their pecuniary interests would be dam—
aged by a knowledge of the existence of
yellow fever among us.”

He noted that the high and dry areas
of the island produced the fewest cases,
and those closest to standing water the
most, and even gave a weather back-
ground description: “It may be generally
stated that the thermometer during the
hottest season in Texas ranges from 90
deg. to 98 and 100 deg. in the middle of
August . . .”

Some of his ideas seem to have influ-
enced the thinking of others in the city.

One contemporary, in a letter about the
epidemic and Dr. Smith, gaVe this man-
in-the-street version:

“It is not contagious. Perhaps you
will not believe this, but it is actually
the case. About the middle of the town
there is a strip of low, marshy land which
extends almost the whole length of the
city, running parallel with the shore.
It is a perfect mud hole, never dry, the
filthiest part of the city, and the smell
from it is dreadful. It was the bad air
which occasioned the sickness. It lasted
about six weeks, and at that time there
were 205 deaths. Among them there was
no one sick with the disease excepting
those who lived in the vicinity of this
mud hole, or those places of business that
were in or near it, and there were only
four females who died of it. Some of the

best and most valuable men in the city
were its victims, but the majority were
people who led irregular lives and their
habits were bad. By irregular lives, I
don’t mean those who were vicious and
intemperate, but many carpenters and
mechanics who lived in shacks and
cooked, and slept in them, or very likely
many in the open air, as many do here
in hot weather.

“The city authorities . . . were ad—
vised by the physician (Dr. Smith) to
have this low spot of land filled up with
sand and lime, but it would cost over a
thousand dollars, and people would not
believe it was yellow fever, but they

mean to have it attended to before an-
other season.

“Dr. Smith has opened up nine bodies,
has several phials of the black vomit and

Page 6

has even tasted‘ of it. Dr. Smith is per-
fectly well and has never had any symp-
toms of the disease, and if it was con-
tagious I think he would.”

On the same subjects in his pamphlet,
Dr. Smith wrote:

“It would be difficult if not impossi-
ble to decide with certainty whether this
fever was imported from abroad . . .
there is at all times a pretty brisk in-
tercourse between New Orleans and Gal-
veston, and yellow fever had been some
time prevailing in the former place. On
the other hand . the exclusive con-
finement to persons much exposed in the
infected district; the frequent removal
of the sick from this district to the
healthy parts of the city without com-
municating the. disease to the attendants
or any other persons whatsoever, strong-
ly confirm the opinion of its non-conta-
giousness.”

the

4.x \/( \

   

5.. / ca; (4..-

deprive the sick of the most necessary
attentions. N on-contagion destroys many
of the horrors of an Epidemic, as a re-
moval only a short distance places us
beyond its influence.

It remained to Dr. Greensville Dowell,
37 years later to become one of the few
to first suggest the possible influence of
mosquitoes in the transmission of both
yellow fever and malaria. This was after
he had established the first medical col-
lege in Texas, the forerunner of the pres-
ent Medical Center.

In his book on Ashbel Smith and the
epidemic (University of Texas Press, ’51)
Dr. Chauncey D. Leake compared Dr.
Smith’s “Account” favorably with the
succinct clinical description of yellow fev-
er as given decades later by the great-
est clinician of the late nineteenth and
early twentieth centuries, Sir William
Osler, who summarized its ecology:

“Fever Burial Ground—Galveston, 1841”

     
   

“On some low sandhills beyond, our prospect that way was termi-

nated by the melancholy remains of an nntnclosed graveyard—the
remote and barren resting place of all who fell by the yellow fever,
when Galveston was visited by it in 1839.”

He was unquestionably the author of
the “bad air” theory, reporting: “The 10-
cal causes are the decomposition of abun—
dant animal and vegetable matters going
on under and around the houses on the
Strand, and the exhalations from the ex—
tensive adjacent marsh and quagmire,
exposed to an ardent sun. . I have
made several post mortem examinations
—handling every organ without squeam-
ishness; immersing my hands freely in
the black vomit and other fluids; smell-
ing and viewing them closely; I have re-
peatedly tasted black vomit, when fresh-
ly ejected from the stomachs of the liv-
ing . .” He concluded that “it can be
contracted only by exposure in the in-
fected district. The subject of contagion
is one of great importance. A belief in
the. contagiousness of this disease would

“Its ravages are most serious in cities,
particularly when the sanitary conditions
are unfavorable. It is always most se-.
vere in the badly drained, unhealty por-
tions of cities where the population is
crowded together in ill ventilated, dark
houses. The disease prevails during the
hot season. Humidity and heat seem to
be the principal coefficients for the pres-
ervation of the poison.

It is more than likely that Galveston’s
first medical research project, as reported
by the father of today’s Medical Center
was in the literature reviewed by Gorgas,
Maass, Reed, Carroll, Agramonte and

.nameless others as the medical world

edged toward the control of yellow fever
during the ensuing decades.

 

 




 

Simplified Grading
Dehated (in Program
0f AAUP Meeting

Resolved, that medical student grades
be reported as superior, pass or fail—

That was the subject which marked
the first meeting of the Medical Center
chapter of the American Association of
University Professors last month, with
Dr. Harry Goolishian (Psychology) as
moderator.

Drs. Benedict E. Abreu (Pharmacolo—
gy) and Marcel Patterson (Medicine)
were the proponents and Drs. Donald
Duncan (Anatomy) and A. O. Singleton,
Jr. (Surgery) spoke against the propo—
sition with a large segment of the facul—
ty joining in the chorus of a thought-
provoking question and answer period.

Excerpts from the arguments for the
affirmative were: Grading is a sorting,
and for just scholastic performance only
two categories (pass or fail) are needed,
the superior group being a natural and
easily identified group. The same is
true for the fails. Reports in “words”
not letters will more clearly represent
the evaluation of each student’s perform-
ance. Superior-pass-fail grading will re-
duce competition and pressure, while
permitting the study of medicine for its
own sake.

Also, the teaching purpose is not to
evaluate per se, but to produce good
physicians. Grading systems fail in
really reflecting the ability of students,
and superior-pass-fail, together with
written comments would be an improve-
ment.

For the negative, the arguments ran:

Admitting that there is no “satisfac-
tory” grading system, superior-pass—fail
would fall short of meeting the require-
ments of the best balance of an imper-
fect system, ie: (1) Realistic (in har-
mony with basic biological factors);
(2) Fair; (3) Encouraging excellence;
(4) Inspiring confidence; (5) Widely ac-
ceptable and (6) Permitting an accurate,
permanent and satisfactory record.

Also, superior-pass-fail is too brief
a scale where the practical values of
close evaluation need be stressed. A
broader scale is required, wherein judge-
ments of different groups and individ-
uals must be combined.

Following the debate, Dr. Robert D.
Cooley (Radiolgy) was elected Chapter
pres1dent, Dr. Raymond F. Blount (An—

 

Class presidents in the School of Nursing for 1962-’63, were voted

into office- this month. They are, left to right, Bonnie Rickelman of Galveston,
Senior Class; Betty Jo- Bell of Corsicana, Junior Class and Rachel Harrison

of Bay City, Sophomore Class.

 

Courtesy "Dr.” Used
For Students On Duty

Third and fourth year medical students
have been granted the courtesy title of
“doctor” when on active duty in the
Medical Center Hospitals, it was an-
nounced this month. The custom replaces
the former deScription “clinical clerk,”
and follows the lead taken by a large
number of American medical schools on

’ the basis that the old term hardly sug-

gests to the patient the qualifications of
the student to take medical histories and
do a thorough physical examination.

In announcing the courtesy title, Dr.
Truslow commented that in the educa—
tional experience of medical students,
the Third Year in medical school intro-
duces them into a doctor-patient rela-
tionship which sets the pattern for a
lifetime in the profession.

 

15 LVN’S To Graduate

Fifteen students are candidates for
graduation in the school for Licensed

Vocational Nurses, to be held on Janu-

ary 11th. Miss Marjorie Bartholf, Dean
of the School of Nursing, will present
the graduates with their diplomas.

Candidates are: Paige Breazeale, Texas
City; Mary Bell Brown, Galveston; De-
lores Mary De Clouet,Galveston; Flavilla
Gilchrist, La Marque; Lillie Frances Hol-
lins, Galveston; Delores Faye Compton,
Galveston; Clarissa Marie Jefferson, Gal-
veston; DOris Jean Millican, Galveston;
Mary Lee Moore, Galveston; Sarah
Moore, Houston; Yolanda Munoz, Bay
City; Odesia Reed, Pioneer, La.; Alice
Joy Roberts, Galveston; Clara Mae
Ward, Garwood, and Betty Rae Watkins,
Hitchcock.

 

Asst. Dean Rudnick Awarded Doctorate

As of this month, it’s “Dr. Rudnick” in
speaking of the assistant dean of the
School of Nursing.

Miss Betty Rudnick was awarded the
degree of Ed. D. in November, it was
announced by the Teacher’s College of
Columbia University. Dr. Rudnick was
awarded an M. A. degree at Columbia in
1956, and a B. S. degree at the Univer-
sity of Houston two years earlier. She

atomy), vice president and Dr. Glenn V.
Russell (Anatomy), secretary-treasurer.

 

had received a diploma in Nursing in
1946.

She is the second member of the nurs-
ing faculty to receive a doctorate, AssiSL-
ant Dean Marilyn Willman on the Aus—
tin campus having been awarded a Ph. D.
at The University of Texas last year.

 

THE ORIGIN of medical museums is
obscured by antiquity. The Museum of
Alexandria in 300 B.C. contained ex-
perimental laboratories, dissection rooms,
botanical and zoological gardens.

JAMA, Oct. 13, ’62

 

Page 7

 




 

 

Research Grants Rise

(Continued from Page 1)
mercial firms, etc. totaled nearly
$400,000. Other support came from gov-
ernment agencies.

Private sources were: Abbott Labora-
tories, Allstate Foundation, Alvin One
Fund Campaign, American Cancer So-
ciety—Texas Division, American Cancer
Society, American Cyanamid Co., Ameri-
can Heart Association, American Foun-
dry Co., American Medical Research
Foundation No. 52, Avalon Foundation,
Ayers Laboratories, Borden. Pharmaceu-
tical Division, Isabella S. Brackenridge
Scholarship for Women, Brazoria County
Heart Association, Burroughs Wellcome
00.;

Cabot Corporation, Amon G. Carter
Foundation, Ciba Pharmaceutical Prod-
ucts, Inc., Clayton Fund, John A. Corollo
Consulting Engineers, Dome Laborato-
ries, Eaton Laboratories, Eaton County
Heart Association, Farm and Ranch
Livestock Commission 00.;

Galveston Coca Cola Co., Galveston
County Heart Association, Good Samari-
tan Foundation, Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc.,
Houston Endowment Co., Hogg Founda-
tion for Mental Health, Johnson & J ohn-
son, Joseph B. Kass Award for Research,
W. K. Kellogg Foundation;

Harris and Eliza Kempner Fund, Jeane
B. Kempner Scholarship Fund, Leukemia,
Society, Liberty Muscular DystrOphy Re-
search Foundation, Life Insurance Medi-
cal Research Fund, Medical Research
Foundation of Texas, Merck, Sharp &
Dohme Research Laboratories, William
S. Merrell Co., McLaughlin Foundation,
Mean, Johnson Laboratories;

S. E. Massingill Co., Mu Delta Honor-
ary Medical Service Society, Population

UNIVERSITY MEDICAL C ENTER

‘h'H‘ O
Q): ”i."
~ (.3463
l * )5
’ ’ ‘

The University of Texas Medical Branch
Galveston, Texas

Council, A. HfRobbins Co., Inc., Rob-
ertson and Poth Foundation, Sahyun
Laboratories, Sandoz Pharmace a?
Schering Corporation;

Sealy and Smith Foundation, Schering
Corporation, Sigma Xi Society, Smith,
Kline and French Laboratories, SKF
Foundation, Gustav Stern Foundation,
Squibb Institute for Medical Research,
Scott Livestock Commission;

Texas Heart Association, Tobacco In-
dustry Research Commission, Upjohn
Co., Wallace & Tiernan, Welch Founda-
tion, Winthrop Laboratories, Wyeth Lab-
oratories, Wiliam & Ida Zinn Alpha
Amega Alpha Award.

Also, gifts from the Robinowitz Broth-
ers, Dr. H. Jaworski, Mr. Paul Spining,
Dr. W. P. Gladney, Mrs. Rogers Pierson,
Mrs. Olga K. Weiss.

U. S. Government research sources
were the Public Health Service, the Na-
tional Science Foundation, and the De-
partment of Defense, including the Navy,
Army and Air Force.

Teaching salaries at the Center are
supported by state funds.

About 70% of the nation’s population,
born with normal feet, will have some-
thing wrong with ‘them before middle
age, according to» Marvin W. Shapiro,
D.S.C., Toledo, Ohio. Shapiro said:

“These ailments cost American busi-
ness and industry about $125,000,000
annually in plant accidents, lost sale-s
and lowered employee morale. In addi-
tion, millions of children and young
adults have foot ailments, or are devel-
oping difficulties that could become
crippling in later life.”

THE LITTLE LEAGUE protective
helmet does a better job than plastic
head liner worn in professional baseball,
says D. Allan Ryan, sports medicine
leader, and should be adopted by adult
amateurs and pros.

 

V18; ti 3 Lecturers

On Campus This Week

The second Arild E. Hansen lecture,
given by Dr. Theodore C. Panos, profes-
sor and chairman of the Department of
Pediatrics of the University of Arkansas
Medical Center, was a campus highlight
this week, and one of several presenta-
tions by distinguished visitors.

Dr. Panos spoke on “The Effects of
Fat Deficiency on the Endoctrine Sys-
tem.”

Dr. Otto Joachim Grusser, professor
of Physiology of the University of Got-
tingen, Germany, a visitor to the De-
partment of Neurology and Psychiatry,
talked at the Anatomy Seminar on “Bi-
nocular Interaction in Single Neurons of
the Cat Central Visual System.” 1

Another important visiting lecture is

that of Dr. Granger Westberg, Th.D.,

associate professor of Religion and
Health at the University of Chicago’s
School of Medicine, in Randall Hall
Thursday afternoon. He will talk on
“Grief: A Precipitator of Illness,” and
that night will give a lecture on “The
Family in Illness” in Randall Hall, which
will be open to the public. After conduct-
ing a seminar with nursing students he
will hold a panel discussion in an infor-
mal faculty session at 7 p. m. Friday
in the Faculty Lounge of Unit D, and
will be a speaker at Surgery Grand
Rounds Saturday morning in Randall
Hall.

 

Dr. Jesse M. Cohen, U. S. Public
Health Service, in a recent address at
a Ft. Worth convention said that re-
searchers have found traces of DDT in
the fatty tissues of everyone they have
examined in this country.

HOUSTON POST, Oct. 18

 

 




 

 

Vol. I, No.

New 013,105,000
Building Program

Okayed By Regents

The Board of Regents have given a
green light to a $13,165,000 rehabilita-
tion program for The University of
Texas Medical Center in Galveston which
includes construction of three new build-
ings, the razing of ancient structures,
modernization of existing buildings and
adding to the air conditioning capacity
and distribution of the entire plant.

It means:

(A) Construction of a new Out-Patient
Department building, an Animal Care
and Laboratory unit, a new Basic Science
Building and a central water chilling
station and distribution system to supply
air conditioning.

(B) Completion of renovations in the
Keiller building, new equipment for many
teaching, research and clinical depart-
ments and funds for “compensatory re-
pairs”—i.e., the re-establishment to use-
ful space of areas vacated for occupancy
in the new buildings. The last item is
set at $1 million, and “advanced research
equipment” at $1.54 million.

Plans Underway

University architects and engineers
are at work on detailed plans for the
new Out—Patient building, and the ad-
ministration is shooting for a start-of-
construction deadline of late next sum-
mer. Work on the air-cooling plant, to
be located north of the present General
Stores building, will be a step ahead of
that. And the program calls for start of
construction on the Basic Science and
Animal Care buildings before completion
of the new Out-Patient building.

The $13,165,000 program approved in
Austin is in addition to the following
projects which have been completed re-
cently, are underway or are to be started
soon:

Randall Pavillion, State Psychiatric
(Continued on Page 2)

 

Mid-October, 1960

Here is an artist’s conception of how the new Out-Patient Department
building will look as you face east. It will link the old Out-Patient build-

ing and Zeigler Hospital (lower left).

Texas MD’s Urged by Dr. Wiggins to Take
Active Role in ‘Securing Own Successors’

Texas’ medical doctors were urged to
take a hard—hitting part in the recruit-
ment of the State’s most talented young
minds into medical careers by Dr. Walter
S. Wiggins, secretary of the Council on
Medical Education and Hospitals of the
AMA at a recent meeting of the Texas
Medical Association in Austin.

“In looking toward the provision of
adequate health care for our nation’s
growing population, there are evident
many problems which demand careful
examination and workable solutions,”

 

Dr. Wiggins said in a speech titled “Se-
curing Our Own Successors.”

“Perpetuation of its own kind, secur-
ing of one’s own successors, is a tradi-
tional obligation of the highest order for
all learned professions. The widespread
search for talented minds becomes a
more intense competition between all
areas of human endeavor with each pass-
ing month. This is particularly true
among the many sciences which search
for talents that are necessary for the ex-
panding horizons of medicine,” he ex-

plained. .
(Continued on Page 3)

 

 




Dr. Ashburn, Chief of
NIH Lab, Here Oct. 17

F or Sigma Xi Lecture

Dr. Llewellyn L. Ashburn, chief of the
Laboratory of Pathology and Histochem-
istry at the National Institute of Arth-
ritis and Metabolic Diseases (NIH) will
be here from Bethesda for the year’s
first Sigma Xi lecture Oct. 17.

He will speak in Randall Hall at 8:00
p.m., following a dinner to be tendered
in his honor by Sigma Xi at the Jean
LaFitte Hotel, beginning at 6:15. His
lecture, on “Germ-free Animals in Re-
search,” is open to faculty, students and
members of the Gulf Coast medical and
scientific professions in addition to Sig-
ma Xi members.

Dr. Ashburn, who has been engaged
for many years in experimental path-
ology at NIH, with special interest in
the field of nutrition, the pathology of
vitamin, choline, and methionine defici-
encies. with particular emphasis on nu-
tritional cirrhosis of the rat, has served
as president of both the Maryland and
Washington Societies of Pathologists.

He will give a report, from first hand
experience, on the most authoritative
work done in development of the germ-
free animal, how he gets that way, how
he is fed, and how he is kept germ-free.
This part of his lecture will be followed
by reports on how, and with what suc-
cess, ' experiments are conducted with
these animals.

. Some of these areas are: nutritional
cirrhosis, folic acid deficiency, vitamin K
deficiency, lipid deposits in lungs, ori-
gin of urease in breakdown of amonia,
hemorrhagic and tourniquet shock, ef-
fect of germ—free state on survival time
after irrediation, development of certain
mouse helminths in guinea pigs, triche-
monas “infection” in guinea pigs, hor-
monal induction of vaginal leucocytic
exudate in mice and studies on dental
caries and peridental disease.

Profs Address Cancer
Research Group Here

Dr. Morris Pollard, professor of Viro-
logy, is in charge of arrangements for
the Southwest Section of the American
Association of Cancer Research meeting
at the Seahorse Hotel, October 14 and 15.

He will present a paper on “Biochemi-
cal Effects of Substituted Purimidimes
on Psitacosis Virus” at the symposium,
and Dr. R. H. Rigdon, professor of Path-
ology, will present a paper entitled “Pul-
monary Neoplasma — An Experimental
Study in the Duc .”

2

 

 

Building Program

(Continued from Page 1)

Hospital and old Out—Patient building
remodeling and air conditioning, financed
by $1,228,000 of General Revenue and
$600,000 in grants from the Sealy and
Smith Foundation; creation of new
Wards 5A and 5B in the John Sealy
Hospital from grants of $175,000 from
the Sealy and Smith Foundation; plus
other projects including new research
laboratories at a cost of $500,000 -— for
a total of $2,500,000.

Plans for funding more than half the
new program have been completed, with
the program supported by The Univers-
ity available fund, The University avail-
able fund bond issue, Hill-Burton Act
monies, NIH grants and from such pri-
vate sources as Sealy and Smith Foun-
dation and Babe Zaharias Foundation.
Plans for the development of the balance
of the money needed are underway.

The recent action of the Regents will
greatly increase the central air condi-
tioning system originally planned, add—
ing $500,000 to a sum of $850,000 ini-
tially allocated. Also, approval of con-
struction of a $150,000 addition to our
laundry facilities was granted.

The new Out-Patient Department build-
ing, with about 120,000 square feet of
ﬂoor space, will link the Zeigler Hospi-
tal and the old Out-Patient Building on
which renovations will start next sum-
mer. It will stahd on what is now Ave-
nue B, which will be closed as a thorough-
fare. (For ﬂoor plans of the six-story
structure, see Page 3.)

The Animal Care and Laboratory unit
is presently conceived as a five-story
structure With 28,000 gross square feet
of ﬂoor space, to be located between the
Zeigler and Keiller buildings. This will
permit direct access to both basic science
and clinical areas through connecting
corridors on all ﬂoors. Also, it provides
opportunity for expansion westward at
a future date. Preliminary plans for
this building will be started at once.

The Basic Science building will be east-
ward extensions of the Keiller and Gail
Borden buildings, closing 9th street and
providing on its first ﬂoor a main en-
trance to the Medical Center. This build-
ing will include a 450-seat auditorium,
at least 5000 square feet of additional
library space, pharmacology laboratories
and offices, and adequate areas for grad-
uate teaching and research in the bio-
logical sciences. Research areas for the

clinical departments also will be in-
cluded.

 

 

UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER
NEWS

The University .of Texas
Medical Branch, Galveston

John B. Truslow, M. D.
Executive Dean and Director
Ralph W. Myers
Assistant Director

0
O--

George W. Newman
Art Editor
Frank W. Schmidt
Photo Editor
William V. Vanecek
Production Manager

 

 

 

 

1000 at Chamber Dance

Some thirty medical students and fa-
culty members added hilarious highlights
to the second annual reception and buffet
dinner hosted by Galveston’s Chamber of
Commerce for the University of Texas
Medical Branch student body.

In an hour—long stage show, professors,
students and their wives, entertained
guests With dancing, comic skits, singing
and music.

More than 1000 medical students, fa-
culty members, businessmen and their
Wives spent the remainder of the eve-
ning dining and dancing to the music of
Manny Green’s orchestra at The Moody
Center.

Chamber president, Ted Waterman, in
welcoming the students said:

“We want you to get better acquainted
with Galveston, to feel that you are part
of the community and that we welcome
every one of you.”

Arrangements for the dinner and stage
show were made by Donald Van F08.-
san, dance co-chairman and SAMA preSI-
dent; Ira Goldstein, co-chairman; and
Dr. John McGivney, acting as liason be-
tween the Chamber and student com-
mittees.

The event is sponsored each year hY
the Chamber’s Medical College Commit-
tee, of which I. H. Kempner is chairman
and David H. Nathan is co-chairman.
The other members are Jack S. Evans,
Tom F. Juneman, Dr. Oscar Kirksey,
James W. Lain and Ballinger Mills.

 

The News will publish details of floor
Plans of each new structure as they be—
come available.

 

 




MD’s Urged To Help

(Continued from Page 1)

In discussing the central problem of
producing enough physicians to satisfy
the legitimate demands of a growing po-
pulation which “becomes increasingly
health conscious,” he pointed out:

(a) The Census Bureau has projected a
population of 235,000,000 by 1975, a 15-
year increase of 30 percent. Significant
is the projection that those under 15
and over 65 years of age show a more
rapid increment of growth, so that as
the population increases, it will grow
simultaneously younger and older.

(b) U. S. economic development her:
alds greater demand for physicians’ serv-
ices.

(c) Advances in medical knowledge
have had an important part in increasing
life expectancy by more than one-third
during the past 50 years. This achieve-
ment is of greater magnitude than that
of the preceding 2000 years. In 20 years
1 medical research, as measured in dollars
spent, has increased 15-fold. The result-
ing growth in biological knowledge
threatens to outdistance our ability to
comprehend, transmit and utilize it, al—
though the physician is in a position to
render increasing services as applicable
knowledge increases.

(d) Social concepts, changing, tend to
increase both the need and demand for
medical services.

(e) In addition to expanding require-
ments placed on our medical manpower
in this century the number of scientists,
other related professionals and techni-
cians has increased at a rate 15 times
greater than physicians, all in activities
which otherwise would fall to medicine’s

lot, adding up to a bigger “health team” '

and better patient care, faster, better
tools saving the physician’s time and
effort.

“However, in composite, these many di-
verse factors almost surely will continue
to create need for increasing numbers of
physicians.” he explained.

With qualifications, Dr. Wiggins said
that “through a simple arithmetrical
process, extension of the present ratio
of 132 physicians for each 100,000 of
population means 3,000 additional gradu-
ates of U. S. medical schools annually
are needed to cover 1975’s total of
235,000,000.”

He ventured that existing schools could
expand to produce about half this need,
presuming availability of money, plant,
faculty and qualified students. Condl-
tionally, he added the estimate that 15
new schools would be needed to meet
fiiture need, conservatively.

 

Floor Plot for 6-Story Out-Patient Building

 

\ snagged uses. XGH‘ FLOOR

 

   
 

\ \m Agacams
- sunemm

\m ASS —.
_______ 33W cums.

\

 

 

_.‘_————

 

%

 

 

 

 
  

   

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ﬁg“ amuses XSth FLOOR
' RE.
“ ENE
ﬂ
.\ \JNN". ‘
\mvxsg

\ 41h FLOOR
RC. WEB QR
BERN.

 

\m' page“ \

 

 

%

 

 

 

 
   

 

 

 

\ Q‘s—CNN \ 3rd FLOOR
may CNN reassess
\ $5“.
RECORDS %

 

 

AAan FLOOR

 

 

RMMQLQ EN

 

 

 

RRB\ [>3 \QN

\
THERAYN K

BLQQB B N\\\\\

I Si FLOOR
‘\‘?_\_EQ.\I\3>.

 

\\\

FAN—LRQENQY

é \

\ \ ﬁ

\vxx pawmx <3 \

\\C.\\NPE\_\ \ECXQ‘PU

 

C.\_\\\\ .
V \JXB

Plans for using the 120,000 square feet of floor space in the new
Out-Patient Department building, shown above, illustrate how new
facilities will be added and how current inadequacies will be corrected.

After convincingly developing the
facts of how other sciences are vigorous-
ly competing for the careers of talented
and dedicated youth, and dealing with
growing economic and social hurdles in
the path of demanding and long-term
educational programs in the physical, bi-
ological and behavorial sciences, he called
upon the profession to actively team up
with medical educators in seeking solu-
tions to the complex national and state
problems involved.

Specifically, he asked for support in

 

recruitment. “We can no longer afford
to sit back and wait for young people to
learn as best they can the nature of
medicine, its challenges and rewards,”
he said.

He praised Dr. May Owen of Fort
Worth, president of the TMA, as a liv-
ing example of leadership in this field,
referring to the quiet financial and “spir-
itual assistance” she has extended to
young, needy medical students over a
remarkable lifetime of service.

 

C23

 

 

 




 

New

1960

Residents

DERSON, Room 207,
Bethel Hall, of Mart,

exas, received his

.D. de egree here in
1959, interned at St.
Joseph’s Hospital,
Fort Worth, andi Is
in psychiatry.

    
    

BURTSCHI, 609 I,

pt. C i s f r o m
Chickasha, Okla., re-
ceived his . . .

versity School of
Dentistry in 1958, in-
terned at Metropoli-
tan Hosp ital, New
York, and is in oral
surgery.

GARAY,rece1ved
his M. D. degree at
San Marcos Nation-
al University, Lima,
Peru, interned at St.
Vincent’s, Jackson-
ville, Florida, and is
in cardiology.

'00m 103 -et e
Hall, is from Tehe-
ran, Iran, received
his .D. egree in
1958 at the Teheran
School of Medicine,
interned at Brooklyn
Hospital and is in
pediatrics.

 

R R B ~ '
ASKEW,1727- 45th
St., is from Ferris,
Texas, received his
MD. degree here in
1959, interned at the
University of Michi-
gan Hospital, Ann
Arbor, and 1s in gen-
eral surgery.

 

» DR.

CASTEEL, Rm. 117,
Bethel Hall, is from
Hartshorne, Okla.,
received his M. L. de-
gree and internship
here and is in in-
ternal medicine.

    

ERS, JR., 113 Trout,
is from ”:Greenwood
Mississippi, received
his M. D. e gree
from Tulane Uni-
versity School of
Medicine 1n 1956,1n-
terned at Baptist
Memorial Hospital,
Memphis, and is in
dermatology.

ADAMS, 102 Al a-
core, received his
M. D. deg‘r ehere in
1949, interned at the
University of Ore-
gon Hospital and is
in anesthesiology.

 

 

BR CHARLES F.
BAILEY, JR., 112
Tuna, is from Bal-
lenger, Texas, re-
ceived his MD. de-
gree here in 1958,
interned at Robert

re en Memorial
Hospital, San An-
tonio, and is in uro-
logy

 

COALE, 116 San
Marino, received his
M. D. degree at Cor-
nell University Med-
ical College in 1958,
interned at Vander-

pita], Nashville, and
18 m obstetrics and
gynecology

    

FORDTRgAN, 2012
33rd Street, is from
Corpus Christi, re
ceived his M. D. de-
gree here in 1956,
interned at Memori~
31 Hospital, Corpus
Christi, and is in in-
ternal medicine.

 

DR.

ALLEN, 104 Bonita,
of Beaumont, re-
ceived his M.D. de-

Hospital, Baltimore,
and is in radiology.

«€- .

DR. JAMES E? B.
BERRY, Apt. 301—0,
Nolan Hall, is from
Oklahoma City, re-
ceived his MD. de-
gree at the Univers-
ity of Oklahoma
School of Medicine
in 1959, interned
here and is in in-
ternal medicine.

 

.. f . l

C O C H R A N, 1R3,
2610 42nd Street, is
from Nashville,
Tennessee, received
his egree
1959 and internship
at Vanderbilt Uni-
versity Hospital and
is in internal medi-
cine.

 

~ WILL .
GAMBRELL, JR,
903 23rd Ave. North,
Texas City, received
his M. D. degree here
in 1950, interned at
Jackson Memorial
Hospital, M' 13.
and is in anesthesli-
ology.

  

 

ALTSCHULER, 12
Lyn crest, received
his yn.M D. degree here

arkl
Hospital, Dallas, and
is in psychiatry.

    
    

DR. ALFRED B
SELL, III, 114 Tuna,
is from Houston, re-
ceived his MD. de~

here in 1959,
interned here and is
in orthopedic sur-
serv-

a . L -
D A N K S, 14 LYD-
crest Drive, received
his M. D. degree in
1955 from the Uni-
versity of Louisville,
interned at the Uni
versity of Oklahoma

ospital and is in
radiology.

cic surgery.

 

 




D R. A L L A N G.
HANRETTA, 120
San Marino Drive,
received his M.D. de-
gree here in 1959,
interned at the US—
PHS Hospital, San
Francisco, andis
psychiatry.

 

gree in 1959 and 1n-
ternship here and is
in obstetrics and gy-

necology.

KUK. b‘AM UEL M.

NG, Room 217,
Bethel Hall, is from
an Antonio, re—
ceived his M. D de—
gree here in 1956,
interned at the U. S
Naval Hospltal Md"
and is in internal
medicine.

DR. WILLIAM L.
MARR, III, 9 Lyn—
crest Drive, received
his M. D. degree here
in 1959, interned at
St. Mary's Hospital,

an Francisco, and
is in cardiology.

DR. ROBERT IVAN
HAUSER, 142 San
Fernando, is from
Houston, received
his M. . degree in
1959 and internship
here and is in psy-
chiatry.

 

DR. CARROLL C.
JONES, 1320 Ave. E,
is from Bryan, re-
ceived his M.D. de-
gree here in 1958,
interned at the Uni-
versity of Kansas
Medical Center and
is in internal m
cine.

DR. THOMAS D.
KIRKSEY, Apt. 301-
E, Nolan Hall, is
from San Antonio,
received his M. D.
degree here in 1959,
interned at Philadel-
phia General Hospi—
tal and is a resident
in surgery.

DR. WINSTON L.
MARTIN, 813 H, is
f r o m Brownwood,
Texas, received his
M.D. degree here in
1959. He also served
his internship here
and is in psychiatry.

DR. CHARLES P.
HAYES, JR., Apt.
101-A Nolan Hall, is
from Wilmington,
N. 0., received his
M. D. degree at Duke
University Medical
chool in 1959, in-
terned at Duke Hos-
pital and is in in-
ternal medicine.

DR. JAMES E.

DR. MAURICE E.
H E R R I N G, 1 1 0
Whiting, i s f r o m
Eouston, received

phia General Hospi-
tal and IS in internal
medicine.

DR. RONALD L.

JOHNSON, 1208 H,
is from Houston, re-
ceived his M.D. de-
gree in 1955 and his
internship here and
is in psychiatry.

DR. J OE D.
KOCKS, Room 104,
Bethel Hall, is from
Dallas, he received
his M.D. degree in
1959 and internship
here and is a resi—
dent in anesthesiolo-
SY-

DR. DARREL F.
MAULSBY, is from
Calgary, Canada, re-
ceived his M.D. de-
gree from the Uni-
versity of Alberta in
1955, interned at
Holy Czoss Hospital
there, and is in or-
thopedic suigery.

JOHNSON, Rm. 107,
Bethel Hall, is from
Tacoma, Wash., re-
ceived his M.D. de-
gree from the Uni-
versity of Washing—
ton in 1958, interned
here and is in otor-
hinolaryngology.

DR. JOHN B. LAU-
BACH, is from Colo-
rado Springs, re-

gree here in 1959,
interned at Letter-
man’s General Hos-
pital, San Francisco
and is in obstetrics
and gynecology.

DR.HOWELL
McCULLOUGH, III,
Apt. 201-C, Nolan
Hall, is from Waco,
received his M.D. de-
gree here, interned
at USPHS Hospital,
San Francisco and is
in anesthesiology.

 

DR. ROY D. HILL
is from Port Arthur,
received his M.D. de-
gree and internship
here and is in psy-
chiatry.

 

DR. PUNG WHAN
KIM, is from Korea,
received his M.D. de-
gree from Kyun yun-g
pookUniversity
Medical School,
Korea, in 1953, in-
terned at Quincy
General Hospital,
Wilmington, D e] .,
and is in pediatrics.

 

DR. J A M E S R.
MARKETTE, 5 1 5
Postoffice, is from
S an Antonio, re-
ceived his M. D. de-
gree here in 1956,
interned at Robert
B. Green Memorial
Hospital, San An-
tonio, and is in psy—
chiatry.

 

DR. JOHN W.
MORRIS, 111, Room
208, Bethel Hall,i
from Atlanta, Ga.,
received his M.D. de-
gree from Emory
University School of
Medicine 1n 1959; in-
terned here and is
in radiology.

 




 

 

 

DR. BENJAMIN J.
NASITS, 2928 0, IS
from Tyler, Texas,
received his D.D.S.
degree from Loyola
University and is in
oral surgery.

 

DR. MAX B. ROE-
DER, Apt. 302- C,

ewcomerstown,
Ohio, received his
M. D. degree from
Ohio State Univers-
ity in 1959, served
his internship here
and is in radiology.

DR. CHARLES R.
TANNER, is from
Fordyce, Arkansas,
received his M.D. de-
gree from the Uni-
versity of Arkansas
in 1959, interned at
Hilcrest Medical
Center, Tulsa, and
is in anesthesiology.

DR. WILLIAM A.
W A L K E R, 1 2 l
Mackerel Street, is
from Beaumont, re-
ceived his M. D. de-
green here in 1959,
interned at USPHS
Hospital, New Or-
leans, and is in radi-
ology.

DR. ELIZABETH
ANN PATTERSON,
is from Portland, re—
ceived her M.D. de-
gree from the Uni-
versity of Washing-
ton School of Medi-
cine in 1956; in-
terned at Salt Lake
City County Hospi-
tal, and is in anes-
thesiology.

 

D R. J O H N P.
SMITH, Room 111,
Bethe] Hall, is from
Youngstown, Ohio,
received his M. D.
degree from Ohio
State University in
1959, interned here
and is in internal
medicine.

DR. RONALD E.
TAYLOR, Room 105,
Bethel Hall, is from
Everett, Washington,
received his M. D.
degree from the Uni-
versity of Washing-
ton in 1959, interned
here, and is in inter-
nal medicine.

DR. FRANK WIL-
LIFORD, III, 5719
McCullough, is from
Bellaire, Texas, re-
ceived his M.D. de-
gree here in 1959, in-
terned at Cincinnati
General Hospital
and is in surgery.

D R . M A C K E .
PATTERSON, is
from Mineral Wells,
Texas, received his
M.D. egree here in
1 9 5 6, interned at
Salt Lake County
General Hospital,
Utah, and is in otor-
fhinolaryngology.

    

DR. DONALD C.
SPENCER, 1102
36th Street, received
his M.D. degree here
in 1959, interned at
Indiana University
Medical Center and
18 in thoracic surg-
ery.

D R. J A M E S H.
THOMAS, 7214 Pop-
lar Drive, received
his M.D. degree here
in 1959, interned at
B a p t i s t Memorial
Hospital in Houston,
and is in psychiatry.

DR. FRANK W.
ZIMMERMAN, JR.,
18 Lyncrest Manor,
is from San Marcos,
Texas, received his
M. D. degree here in
1959, interned at

S A F Hospital,
Lackland A. F. B.,
and is in psychiatry.

DR. J A M E S A.
REINARZ, 606 N.
Boulevard, is from
Austin, received his
M.D. degree here in
1959, interned at the
University of Michi-
gan Hospital, Ann
Arbor, and is in in-
ternal medicine.

 

DR. HUBERT J.

STUART is from
Athens, T e x a 8, re-
ceived his M. D. de-
gree here in 1959,
interned at Parkland
Hospital, Dallas, and
is in psychiatry.

DR. JOE P. TUP-
IN, 103 Pompano, is
from Comanche, Tex-
as, received his M.D.

egree here in 1959,
interned at the Uni-
versity of California
Hospitals, San Fran-
cisco, and is in psy-
chiatry.

DR. ELI ZONANA,

102 Avalon Way, is
from Houston, re-
ceived his M. D. de-
gree here in 1959. He
interned here and is
In pathology.

 

DR. GENE RICH-

ARDSON, is from

Sanderson, 'l‘ e x a 5,

received his M.D. de-
gree from Baylor
University College
of Medicine, interned
at Kansas City Gen-
eral, and is in radi-
ology.

 

DR. WILLIAM W.
SULLIVAN, re-
ceived his M.D. de-
gree from St. Louis
University School of
Medicine in 1951, in-
terned at General
Hospital, Arlington,
California, and is in
orthopedic surgery.

 

D R. H UGO VAN
GOETHEM, is from
Antwerp, Belgium,
received his M.D. de-
gree from the Uni-
versity of Louvain,
Belgium, interned at
Children’s Hospital,
Oakland, Calif., and
is in pediatrics.

 

DR. ROBERT H.
ZSCHAPPEL, Bren-
ham, Texas, received
his M.D. degree here
in 1959, interned at
Philadelphia General
Hospital and is in
obstetrics and gyn-
ecology.

 

 

 

AA




 

 

Meet Gertie-Recorder Extraordinary

Those coldly impersonal entries which
comprise records of the Medical Branch,
merely list Miss Gertrude Block as
“Senior Clerk, Medical Records Libra-
ry.”

Hundreds of people in Galveston, and
other hundreds of doctors now in prac-
tice throughout Texas and the United
States, will hasten to inform you that
such an entry is the understatement of
the century.

It fails to record that this amiable
lady, when she came to work here on
October 13, 1930, “didn’t know the dif-
ference between a fracture and an inci—
sion,” to put it in her own words. It
neglects to report that she was the only
clerk in the office when she started to
work, and has watched over its growth
to an organization of 28 people with the
loving care usually attributed to mother
hens. Mainly, it says nothing about her
principle function for three decades —
that of locating vital information and
delivering it with gracious gusto to stu-
dents, interns, residents and staff —
usually at a time when obtaining the
_ information was the most important
single event in the world.

It could add that Miss Gertie takes
an immense pride in her native city (she,
of course, being Born On The Island),
has served on the board of the Galveston
County Civic Music Association because
she “wants to help bring good things to
Galveston.”

Let’s see what the people who know

her want printed into this record on the _

occasion of her retirement, after 30 years
of service beyond the call of duty:

Dr. Elizabeth Du Moulin, chief medi-
cal records librarian: “She’s like Gi-
braltar. When things need doing, rely
on Gertie to find a way. She’s like a
bloodhound when she’s on the trail of a
missing record.”

Mrs. Lucy Galfione, medical records li-
brarian: “Nobody can fool Miss Gertie
when they want to conceal their identity
in the emergency room. She’s the woman
to send on an interview when a mother,
for some reason or another doesn’t want
to admit that the young patient is not
her natural child, but an adopted one.
People just tell Miss Gertie the truth.”

Dr. G. W. N. Eggers, Sr., who has
ribbed Miss Gertie for 30 years: “She’s
the person everybody wants to do some-
thing for, because she’s always doing for
others. Go ask the bus driver.”

George Dillard, employe of the Gal-
veston Transit Co.: “We’ve been stop-
ping in front of her house for years,

 

Miss Block . . . sort of retired

stands that it’s okay to honk. There’s
no such thing as a blue morning after
Miss Gertie gets aboard. And when a
bus driver goes to the hospital, there’s
Miss Gertie with a carton of cigarettes
and her smile.”

Dr. John B. T'ruslow: “It’s hard to
express —- even to realize — the full
value of a person like Gertrude Block to
the Medical Branch. Her kind of able,
loyal, willing devotion to duty are the
real bricks and mortar on which the in-
stitution stands.”

Now Miss Gertie is staying home at
5202 Avenue U, where she lives with her
brother and sister-in-law, Mr. and Mrs.
Hyman S. Block, BUT —

Every Tuesday and Thursday she’s
back at her desk, putting in a full
eight hour day. The only difference
is now she’s not getting paid for it.
And as a volunteer worker, lots of
people are finding that Tuesdays
and Thursdays are the best day to
find those elusive ones — the rec-
ords that just don’t seem to be
where they belong.

 

Ratio of Faculty to
Students Now at 3.2

The Medical School today has the
most favorable ratio of faculty to stu-
dents in post-war history —- a ratio of
about 32 students per faculty member.
Last year the ratio was 3.3, the year be-
fore was 3.7, and in 1957-58 it was 4.0.
It has been improved annually since 1955-
56, when the ratio was 4.4.

“Faculty members” as nose-counted in
the complex accounting system set up by
the Association of American Medical Col-
leges, are measured in something called
“full-time equivalents.” That is, a full-
time member of the faculty is counted
as one, and two men who are on half-time
salary total another. Four quarter—time
salaried men add up to still another, etc.

At the Medical School, there are 146
full-time equivalents this year, teaching
an enrollment of 476 medical students.
Last year’s faculty totaled 147 full-time
equivalents, teaching 507 students. In
1955-56, with an enrollment of 611 stu-
dents, there were only 137 full-time equi-
valents.

Not counted in these ratios are 86 cur-
rently non-budgeted, part time faculty
members, practicing physicians and sur-
geons who contribute to the School’s
teaching strength without cost to the

4 state.

Next year, if a budget request for a
two-man faculty increase is granted, and
if the entering class totals 160 first-year
students, the faculty-student ratio will
stand at a desirable 3.3.

 

 

THEY MADE. IT A LAW

New Jersey, on September 26, 1772,
passed the first law in America for-
bidding the practice of medicine without
a license. This did not include those
who drew teeth or did bleeding.

 

Dr. Strominger Gives
First McLaughlin Talk

Dr. Jack L. Strominger, professor of
Pharmacology, Washington University
School of Medicine, delivered the first
McLaughlin Lecture for the 1960-61 year
last week in Randall Hall.

Dr. Stro-minger’s first talk was on
“Nucleotide Intermediates in the Bio-
synthesis of Polysaccharides” explaining
reactions in which living tissue forms
new cell walls.

Part two of Dr. Strominger’s lecture
was delivered on “Antibiotics as Inhibi-
tors of Bacterial Cell Wall Synthesis”—
the process by which antibiotics exert
their effects on bacteria.

This was the seventh in a series of
lectures made possible by the James W.
McLaughlin Fellowship Fund for the in-
vestigation of infection and immunity.

 

 




 

 

Your Holiday-Vacation
Schedules for 1960 -’61

The 1960-61 holiday and vacation
schedule for all Medical Branch person-
nel, as approved by the Board of Re-
gents at their last meeting is:

Thanksgiving — Thursday, Nov. 24
and Friday, Nov. 25.

Christmas — Thursday, Friday and
Monday — Dec. 22 through Dec. 2.6.

New Years — Monday, Jan. 2.

Easter — Friday preceding Easter,
March 31.

Independence Day — Tuesday, July 4.

Plus Labor Day —- which we’ve had—
and the usual three weeks, or 15 work-
ing days of vacation.

FOR STUDENTS:

Thanksgiving recess begins at 5 p.m.
Wednesday, Nov. 23; classes resume at
8 a.m. Monday, Nov. 28.

Christmas holidays begin at 5 p.m.
I’i‘llrmrsday, Dec. 22; classes resume Tues-
day, Jan. 3 at 8 a.m.

Easter holidays begin at 5 p.m. Thurs—
day, March 30; classes resume at 8 am.
Monday, April 3.

Independence Day recess begins at 5
p.m. Monday, July 3; classes resume at
8 a.m. Wednesday, July 5.

(Formal classes for Seniors end May
20, and Commencement Day is May 26.
Senior Week starts Monday, Feb. 27 and
continues through Saturday, March 4.

 

Wlodt’s C 0min g U [2

THE ANNUAL DINNER for resi-
dents and interns will be held at the
Jack Tar Charcoal Galley, 7 p.m. on
Dec. 1, sponsored by the A. H. Robins
Company.

 

unmmmmTY1nnmuuacaNnni

  

The University of Texas edical Branch
Galveston, Texas

 

«gyMlss Vlrglnla.Dryden
:QQA531stant Dean ““-~
<_ School of Nursing
Room 103

Student Class and SAMA Officers Named

Officers for the 1960-61 school year
have been elected for the Student Amer-
ican Medical Association Council and for
the four classes. They are as follows:

SAMA COUNCIL

 

 

 

 

Don Van Fossan ____________________ President
Taylor Smith .................. Vice-president
Bobbie Roland ........................ Secretary
Jack Riley Treasurer
Gwen Scharlach -AEI
Jack Davis AKK
Clinton Craven NSN
Herb Steinbach PBP

 

Fred Kurrus ____________________________________ PC

 

 

 

Ira Goldstein . PDE
Hance Smith PRS
Mike Adkisson TKP
Bill Ewing ______________________ Honor Council
Dennis Welch ______________ SAMA Delegate
Gay Manning ________________ Medical Dames

John Goodman ----Freshman, Class Pres.
Don Fincher ____Sophomore Class Pres.

Director’s Letter

This second isSue of the University
Medical Center News will emphasize
some features of our building-and reno-
vation program over the next few years.
It is very gratifying that these plans
are going forward with appropriate plan-
ning and financing, but it is predictable
that with the progress of the next few
years there will be numerous inconveni-
ences, displacements and irritations. Un-
derstanding of the nature of the com-
plexities of large scale construction and
renovation will be helpful to all of us.
Our goal is a measure of completion and
operation by the Seventy Fifth Anni-
versary of the founding of the School.

?'6«/$.IW

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jack Davis .............. Junior Class Pres.
Dave Shannon .......... Senior Class Pres.
FRESHMAN

John Goodman ....................... President
Bob Wilkins .................... Vice-President
Bud Casberg Secretary
Glen Guilett Treasurer
HONOR COUNCIL

Carlos Canales

Larry Annes

SOPHO-MORE

Don Fincher President
Bruno Ybarra ................ Vice- President
Gwen Scharlach ...................... Secretary
Jim Spier . Treasurer
HONOR COUNCIL

Mike Howard

JUNIOR
Jack L. Davis President
Larry Waterbury __________ Vice-President
Ronald Hauser ......................... Secretary
James Johnson ______________________ Treasurer
SENIOR

David Shannon ________________________ President
James Scheske _________________ Vice-President
Janelle Sloane ________________________ Secretary
Bob Coffee Treasurer

 

HONOR COUNCIL
Donald Owens

 

Poem for a

Harvest M 0072
(Thanks to Earl H. Hanson, Journal
of Medical Education, 35:336, Apr., 1960)
My name is Sadie.

When I grow up, I want to be a lady
And have a baby.

 

My name is Dan.
When I grow up to be a man,
I want to help Sadie with her plan. .

 

fhklracgearldge Hall 9f;;ﬁ731 H

 




 

. . ....... ,r ............ —. . . . ....... -. . ~. . . .vl‘.

The University of Texas Medical Branch

VOL. I, NO. 5

' "A; .
' )3" 1'.‘ or;

r

Mid-February, ’ 1961

 

54 Beds Added to
JSH With Opening
of Wards 5-A, 5-B

Bed capacity of John 'Sealy Hospital
was increased by 54 this week with the
opening of wards A and. B, on the Fifth
Floor. The area consists of a series of
28 rooms, all occupied by two patients
except for two single private rooms, one
in each ward.

Furnishings and appointments follow
the most modern trend in hospital de-

sign, giving the appearance of private

home or hotel living as compared with
the traditional austerity of hospitals.

Each two-patient room is designed for
spacious comfort, has a different color
scheme — walls, draperies, furnishings
— so that each is individually distinct
and of cheerful interior decoration. A
large measure of priVacy is provided by
colorful, opaque cubicle curtains mount-
ed on a recessed ceiling tract.

Wall to wall carpeting of a new floor
covering, a vinyl carpeting that has a
nap like ordinary wool or nylon, is a
revolutionary feature. It looks and feels
like carpeting but this new surface is
skid proof, cuts down on noise, and can
be washed with soap and water.
walls are covered with tastefully de-
signed wallpaper, which also is washable.
In short everything has been designed to
look attractive and homey, but can be
cleaned to hospital standards.

The needs of both the patient and the
attending medical personnel have been
considered in these designs. For the pa-
tient, there is a divided closet with slid-
ing doors; each room has its own private
bath and its own telephone. For both pa-
tient and personnel, each room has a
vacuum device and oxygen piped in.

Most important, each room is equipped
with an inter - communications system
called the Executone. If the patient

Continued on pg. 8

The -

 

Galveston Cof C Sends:

Reprints of Houston
Post Series to M.D.s

of The University of Texas Medical
Branch, published 'last mOnth in The
Houston Post, are being circulated to
every physician in Texas. About one-
third of them are alumni of this insti-
tution.

The state-wide mailing is a contribu-
tion by the Medical College Committee
of the Galveston Chamber of Commerce.
It is accompanied by a letter from I. H.
Kempner, committee chairman, which
states: “Realizing your interest in the
condition of medical education in Texas,
we feel that there is considerable infor-
mation of value in this reprint. There is
need for more awareness of problems
confrOnting medical educators through-
out the nation. These problems stem from
continuing reduction in the number of
qualified students seeking medical de-
grees, needs for plant modernization, in-
creasing costs and a great variety of
new demands posed by almost unbeliev-
able progress in the medical sciences.”

Mr. Kempner then wrote: “The splen-
did progress being made at your Uni-
versity of Texas Medical Center in Gal-
veston in meeting these challenges is
clearly defined in the concluding article
of the series. The writer drew her con-
clusions after carefully researching his-
toric background information. Texas
should be proud of this fine institution,
which has earned the full confidence
and support of the Regents, the medical
profession and the legislators who know
the story thoroughly.”

THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE: has

made a limited number of these reprints
available to Medical Branch personnel
who may have mi‘ssed reading any or
all of the 18,000-word series. They may
be picked up at the Public Information
Office, Room 308, Administration Bldg.

Berlitz Classes

In Five Tongues

Reprints of the series of eight articles ,
on the problems, planning and progress '

Proposed For MB

BULLETIN: Charles Berlitz, founder
and Chairman of the Berlitz School of
Languages, flew to Galveston to discuss
the language program with the faculty
this week.’

An opportunity for faculty members
and administrative personnel to learn to
speak a foreign language has been made,
possible by arrangements made by Dr.
John B. Truslow, executive dean and di-
rector, with the Berlitz School of Lan-
guages.

Questionaires to determine the extent
lof interest in the project have been cir-
culated and the success or failure of the
proposal will be determined by the num~
ber and enthusiasm of the response.

Dr. Truslow’s arrangements add up to
an educational “bargain” with the na-'
tion’s most noted organization in the
teaching of conversational French, Ger-
man, Spanish, Russian and Chinese. Those
are the courses initially proposed, al-
though other languages may be added to
the “curriculum” if sufficient demand is
indicated.

Charles Berlitz, founder and director
of the nationwide organization, is keenly
interested in the proposal and has ad-
vised Dr. Truslow that he will staff the
project with the best of his teachers. He
considers this a pilot project in a medi-
cal-university setting with great poten-
tial for establishing a national precedent.

Although financial arrangements will
not be finalized until the extent of in-
terest is established, Dr. Truslow wrote
the faculty that a proposal will be made
to charge a fee of $25 per month, which
is from one-half to one-quarter of com-
parable commercial rates for instruction
of this quality. Indications are that the

 

 

Continued on pg. 2

 

 




 
      

    

Name Swicegood Asst.

Director of Hospitals

Henry A. Swicegood has been appoint—
ed assistant director of Medical Branch
hospitals in charge of general services, it
was announced by Daniel J. Bobbitt, di-
rector. He assumes the post vacated by
Stanley B. Pariso, who has been shifted
to that of Assistant Director for clinical
services. The appointments were made
following the resignation of Charles M.
Cooper, Jr., who left the clinical services
position to become assistant administra—
tor of Hermann Hospital in Houston.

Mr. Swicegood attended Northwestern
University where he received a Master’s
degree in hospital administration. His
most recent post was that of Administra—
tive Assistant at the Providence Hospital
in El Paso. The services which Mr.
Swicegood will oversee include the phar-
macy, physical and occupational therapy,
housekeeping, laundry, and disaster
planning.

Mr. Pariso, who received training at
the University of Toronto, came to Gal—
veston in 1959 from the hospital system
in Columbus, Nebraska, where he was
Business Manager and Assistant Ad-
ministrator. In Clinical Services, the
areas of responsibility include medical
records, anesthesia and oxygen, blood
bank and hematology, clinical labora-
tories, EEG services, the Heart Station,
radiology, and dietary services. He has
just completed the task of activating
the new rooms in SA and 5B.

 

Student Lounge, Book

Store Share New Space

Ribbon-cutting ceremonies opened the
Student Lounge and Book Store at the
west end of the main floor of the Ashbel
Smith Building Tuesday. The brightly-
decorated book store area occupies about
two-thirds of the bay-end of the build-
ing, and the balance of the area is a
wood paneled lounge equipped with easy
chairs, sofas, desks and television.

The book store moved from inadequate
quarters across from the Gail Borden
building last Fall into temporary space
at the opposite end of its present loca—
tion in the Smith building. There has
been no student lounge facility for more
than a year, when it was seriously dam-
aged by fire.

 

Page 2

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE McLAUGHLIN COMMITTEE gave a luncheon last week at the
Pelican Club for Mr. and Mrs. Stuart McLaughlin from Rengely, Colorado.

This, was their first visit to the campus.

Mr. McLaughlin is the grandson of

Dr. ,James W. McLaughlin in whose honor, the McLaughlin Fellowship Fund
was'established. During the current year, the Fund will underwrite four pre-
doctoral and one post- -doctoral Fellowships, two lectureships, and will assist in
supporting the Medical Students’ Forum.. In addition, the Fund is supporting
four. medical student Fellowships for the School year, and 8 or more additional
ones will be added during the summer. Shown left togright are Dr. Glenn V.
Russell, Mr. McLaughlin, Mrs. McLaughlin',’Dr. G. W. N. Eggers, Sr., Dr. Mary
Ellen Haggard, Dr. Glenn A. Drager, and Dr. Lothar L .Salomon, Chairman

of the Committee.

 

Berlitz Classes Proposed For MB

Continued from pg. 1
cost differential will be made up by en-
dowment funds, at least initially.

The-i proposal has the endorsement of
Chancellor Logan Wilson and Chancellor-
Elect Harry Ransom. The language de-
partments at the Main University will
monitor the program.

The course, which probably will rUn
for six months, will be set up on this
basis: Attendance at two weekly sessions
of two hours in groups of four or five to
a teacher; attendance on at least three
days at luncheons to be held five days a
week in rooms in or near the hospital
cafeteria; week-end_parties;in homes; at
least four hours a week 0 home-work as-
signments. At all classes and gatherings
only the language under study will be
spoken, with natives. of the language
usually in attendance.

The project is motivated by the obvious
and growing need for improved interna-
tional communication—especially 1n medi-
cal circles.

 

“Health, hygiene medicine and the bio-
logical sciences have achieved relatively
good communication across boundaries
and through curtains,” Dr. Truslow wrote
the faculty, “because traditionally these
have been kept somewhat apart from po-
litical, military and economic considera-
tions, and because many of the basic
political and economic problems of the
world today are grounded in starvation,
ignorance and filth.”

“The principle barrier to real com-
munication is the barrier of language,”
he said in pointing up the importance of
the proposal “as we enter a decade of un-
paralleled promise of international travel
and study and education.”

The dean’s office views the project as
one of distinct opportunity for the insti-
tution as well as for the individuals in-
volved. The plan is to initiate the pro-
gram as soon as possible, most likely
within 30 days if response to the invita-

tion is widely and enthusiastically sup-
ported.

 

 
 

, ,Fa. »\ .___.. A“

 




 

MIT's Dr. Ingram To
Lecture 0n Proteins,
Hemoglobin Evolution

A distinguished scientist, Dr. Vernon
M. Ingram, Associate Professor of Bio-
chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology will visit the campus two
days this week, under sponsorship of Phi
Delta Epsilon and Mu Delta. The pur-
pose of 'his visit here will be to deliver
the Meyer Bodansky lecture. The subject
of the lecture, to be held at Randall Hall
at 4:30 p.m., on February 17, will be
“The Evolution of the Hemoglobins.”

During his visit to the campus, Dr.
Ingram will be honored at a dinner at
the John Sealy Cafeteria at 6:30 p.m.,
on February 16. After dinner, Dr. In-
gram will address the Galveston Chapter
of Sigma Xi at 8 o’clock at Randall Hall,
discussing “The Importance of Being a
Good Protein.”

Dr. Ingram has been on the faculty at

M.I.T. since 1958. He was born in Bres— A

lau, Germany, and educated in Great

Britain. His special field of research is

the chemistry of proteins, and he has
done research at the Rockefeller Institute
and at Yale University. He was a mem-
ber of the Scientific Staff of the Medical

Research Council, Cavendish Laborato- ‘
ries at Cambridge, England, before join- ;

ing the M.I.T. faculty. He is a member
of several biochemical and genetics so-
cieties, here and abroad.

 

Dr. Poth Named to

National Board of

Medical Examiners

Dr. Edgar J. Poth, professor of sur-
gery, has been appoined to the Surgical
Committee of the National Board of
Medical Examiners, the agency prepar-
ing and administering examinations for
medical school graduates of the United
States, its territories, and Canada. Its
standards are recognized as adequate
qualifications by the medical licensing
authorities of all states except seven.
Texas accepts National Board certifica-
tion if the diplomate has been licensed
in some other state.

The board on Which Dr. Poth will
serve will review and administer exami—
nations, in a regional meeting in Waco,
and other national meetings in Wash-

ington. Dr. Poth, who received his Ph.D.~

at California in 1925 after earning a

 

 

DR. VERNON M. INGRAM of M.I.T.,

here for Bodansky, Sigma Xi lectures.

’61 Staff J Elected;
Dr. Eggers, Chief

Dr. G. W. N. Eggers, Sr., professor of
orthopedic surgery, took office as chief
of staff of the Medical Center hospitals
following the annual election of officers
Jan. 31. Dr. J. Fred Mullins, dermatolo-
gy chairman, was voted chief—elect, and
Dr. Marcel Patterson, associate profes-

 

sor of medicine, was re-elected secretary-

treasurer.

Members at large of the executive
committee are Dr. William L. Marr, Dr.
E. Ivan Bruce, Dr. Ed. B. Rowe and Dr.
J. L. Jinkins, Jr.

Clinical department chairmen serve as
a standing committee and Dr. Eggers

~ has appointed the following committee

chairmen for 1961: Medical Records, Dr.
Fred J. W-olma; Medical Audit, Dr. Wil-
liam C. Levin; Pharmacy and Therapeu-

4tics, Dr. John E. Johnson; Infection, Dr.

John 'W. Middleton; Intern, Dr. Charles
R. Allen; Program, Dr. J. Fred Mullins
and Cancer, Dr. John Webb.

Ex-officio members of the executive
committee are Dr. John B. Truslow, ex-
ecutive dean and director; Dr. Kenneth
Earle, dean of medicine and Daniel J.
Bobbitt, hospital administrator.

 

BA. and an MA. at Texas, was awarded
his MD. from Johns Hopkins in 1931.
He has been a distinguished professor of
surgery, and director of the .surgical re-

. search laboratory here since. 1942.

 

‘Disaster Show’ Staged
At Fort Sam Houston

One hundred and seventy medical and
nursing students, accompanied by a
dozen faculty members, took the three-
day course in disaster-medical techniques

.at the Brooke Army Medical Center and

the Medical Field Service School at Fort
Sam Houston last week. This is the
fourth year that the M.E.N.D. program
has been conducted by the Army for our

students and facultyunder arrangements

set up by Dr. Truman G. Blocker, di-
rector of the program on this campus.

This year 10 teachers from Galveston
schools were guests. The entire class of
Third Year medical students and the
entire junior class of the School of Nurs-
ing, plus some members of the nursing
services of the hospitals and other stu-
dents took the trip to San Antonio. The
journey was made in a caravan of six
buses, and the Galveston delegation were
housed in officer barracks.

The rare field demonstrations of medi-
cal handling of wounded at Camp Bullis,
staged around a simulated nuclear ex-
plosion, involved hundreds of troops. A
packed schedule of lectures and demon-
strations at Fort Sam Houston also were
staged. This is the fourth time that our
students have had an opportunity to par-
ticipate in the event, which now is being
expanded to include similar programs
for other medical schools. The 1961 event-
was termed “Operation Aurora.”

 

UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER?
NEWS

The University of Texas
Medical Branch, Galveston

John B. Truslow, M. D.
Executive Dean and Director

Ralph W. Myers
Assistant Director

Margaret R. Harrington
Editor

George W. Newman
Art Editor

Frank W. Schmidt
Photo Editor

William V. Vanecek
Production Manager

 

 

 

Page 3

 




 

;
I'

 

 

lhe Universitu Medical
enter LIBRHHU

The library of The University of
Texas Medical Branch is one of
the seven largest in America, is by
far the largest in Texas and the
South, and has grown to its pres-
ent wall-busting proportions and
stature under the loving care of a
librarian’s librarian.

Miss Elisabeth Dorothea Runge,
Librarian and Associate Professor,
Medical and Public Health Bibliog—
raphy, is not synonymous with the
Library. Not quite, that is. She
had a predecessor, who stayed two
years.

But since that September day in
.1922 when she came home to her
native Galveston with a fresh BA.
degree from the Main University,
and a Certificate in Library Sci-
ence, she has personified the
growth and development of one of
medical education’s most valuable
assets.

Actually, the library dates back
to 1893—when the school was three
years old, and Dr. Allen J. Smith,
pioneer professor of pathology, do-
nated his private library to the
school. Donations of volumes from
Gulf Coast physicians, alumni from
all parts of Texas, and from the
Galveston County Medical Society
built on that nucleus. Until 1920,
when a trained librarian was en-
gaged, a sole secretary tended the

Page 4

Li

2
i
4
E
’z'
‘.
i
i

l

~Im"

D

 

slowly growing collection in a cor-
ner of the Ashbel Smith Building.

At least two generations of Texas
doctors will identify the Library
with no one other than Miss Runge,
because she wasn’t given any as-
sistance until the mid-30’s. And
until after World War II, in fact,
she processed all the books and did
all the cataloging herself. She ad-
mits that during those two decades
she formed the almost-outdated
“bad habit” which she now cannot
break. She works 14 to 16 hours a
day, six days a week, punctuated
by sustaining coffee breaks and a
relaxed, lively interest in the hun-
dreads of people who come to her
quiet domain.

Among other things, she has
m0ved a lot of books around during
the 38 years of her peripatetic ca-
reer. In 1925, she helped move the
library to the Keiller Building, and
and agaln to larger quarters in
the same building in 1932. The lat-
est.move was in 1952, when the
ent1re facility was transferred to

its present location in the Gail Bor-
den Building.

The last move involved a 50,000-
volume collection. Since then 210
shelves were tucked under the win-
dows and wrapped around the sup-
portlng columns. Another 408
shelves were added, super-market

 

MISS LILLIE RUNGE, librarian's Librarian

fashion wherever wall and floor
space could be found. What was de-
signed for a Reading Room to ac-
commodate 230 students, now looks
more like a stack room. _
All of this Miss Runge has 1n
mind as she helps plan the new 11‘;
brary to be housed on a groun
floor of the Rebecca Sealy build-
ing, to be completely remodele
next Year. Her library. 1n seven
years has grown to a unit housmﬁ
78,000 bound volumes, .and eac
year about 2,000 periodicals from
all over the world are added. 1 'n
1,000 periodicals are avallabe 11
complete files, from Vol. 1, N°° '

About

to the current or final issue. The
Journals, arranged in alphabetical
order, extend up to the Mezzanine,
where all bound periodicals and un-
bound, current issues are housed.
The basement is used for over-
flow, out-of-print periodicals, those
received irregularly, infrequently
used foreign journals. Duplicates,
Since. good librarians throw away
nothing, are kept in the basement
of the Keiller building. (Why? Be-
cause the day comes when they are
needed to replace lost numbers.
Also, they are the currency of ex-
change between the medical libra—
rles of the world. If one library is

missing a particular issue of a
Journal, some sister library will re-
place 1t, and the process is recipro-
ca .)

Miss Runge, like her library, gets
around.And she does so without
ever getting far away from her li-
brary. She has been to Europe
seven times, to the Orient twice,
and around the world once. And
in the process. she would no more
think of passing up a medical li-
brary than a rich alcoholic would
think of passing u a saloon. She
travels wﬁh a supp y of Texas Re-
ports on Biology and Medicine,
which she has used like“wampum
in exchange for about 700 periodi-
cals which now come our way in
exchange with libraries the world
over.

She attended the first Interna-
tional Congress of Medical Libra-
rianship at the University of Lon-
don in 1953, and plans to attend
the second Congress in Washington
two years from now. The only
meetings of the Medical Library
Association which she has missed
since 1926 were those three that
took place when she was abroad.

Lots of peOple get around to call-
ing on Miss Runge and her Library
in addition to the students, faculty,
interns and residents who are her
“steadies.” She and Mrs. Barbara
Kelso, who also is a trained li-
brarian, handle a great volume of
reference inquiries and requests.
They come from physicians, com-
mercial firms, oil companies, and
librarians throughout the state. na-
tion and foreign countries. When
hospitals set up their own libraries
they often start by asking for a
basic list of periodicals and books,
which our library supplies.

It’s not commonly known, but the
Library functions much like a pub-
lic Library, serving high school
students, teachers, attorneys and
other non-medical people for whom
Miss Runge, Mrs. Kelso and asso-
ciates have a stock answer: “If we
don’t know, we’ll look it up for
you.”

Part of Miss Runge’s pet plans
for the “next move” into what is
the now Rebecca Sealy building, is
the proper expansion and restora-
tion of the Founder’s Room, the
first—floor room now doing double-
duty as a seminar and congerence
area. There the original Dr. Smith
collection is housed, supplemented
by volumes donated in 1927 from
Dr. James Edwin Thompson’s li-

brary. To it have been added books
of historical or irreplacable refer-
ence value, bibliographies and vol-
umes of great age. It is a growing
depository for gifts from interested
physicians, mainly Texans.

There isn’t a QUIET, or SI-
LENCE, PLEASE sign in the Li-
brary. Miss Runge thinks they are
unnecessary, in the presence of the
gallery of portraits of great men
of Texas medicine who look down
from the walls. And for all the de-
corum of the area, a lot goes on
there.

The vitality of this part of the
schools of medicine and nursing
can be seen in circulation figures.
Excluding loans to other libraries,
it circulates about 16,000 books
and journals a year, about 9,000 to
physicians and 7,000 to students.
Keeping a loan collection of 7 8,000
volumes requires the services of
nine people full-time, and two part-
time workers. In inter-library
service, because our library is bet-
ter stocked than almost all others,
it sends out about 700 books and
periodcals for each 100 borrowed.
It handles the mailing of about
3,000 Texas Reports per issue. It
classifies, stamps and types cata~
logue cards for new books received,
and for most periodicals. And it
binds periodicals annually, in the
basement shop.

Meanwhile, Miss Runge finds
time to play bridge avidly, is an
active Junior League worker, a
Little Theater patron, a concert-
going music lover, was honored as
“Boss of the Year” by the Galves-
ton Chapter of the American Busi-
ness Women’s Association in 1960
and by listing in the first edition
of “Who’s Who of American Wom-
en.” Also, she loves parties.

But mainly, she likes pe0ple and
books. She regrets that she does

not know each student by name, as

in the old days. She has a reputa-
tion for tenacity about books. “If
she sees a title she thinks may ever
be useful, she won’t quit until she
has run it down,” a co-worker ob-
served. “Thrift and saving—that’s
how she has built up this library.”

Augustine Birrell once said,
“Good as it is to inherit a li-
brary, it is better to collect one.
Had he been a medical educator he
probably would have added —“It
is even better to have someone like
Miss Lillie Runge to collect it for
you.”

Page 5

 




 

Dr. Anigstein, Class of ’13, to Attend
Heidelberg’s 575th Anniversary Reunion

Dr. Ludwik Anigstein, Professor of
Preventive Medicine and Public Health,
has been invited to attend the 575th
anniversary of the founding of his alma
mater, the University of Heidelberg. The
celebration of “University Week” will be
held from May 27 through June 4.

Dr. Anigstein received his Ph.D. de-
gree in 1913 from Heidelberg, which is
the third oldest university in the world.
Founded in 1385, only the Universities
of Prague and Cracow, are older. In view
of the university’s long and distinguished
history, it is not surprising that old tra—
ditions are cherished with tenacity. For
example, Dr. Anigstein says that the di-
ploma tradition, begun so many years
ago, is still maintained. Diplomas are
still printed in Latin, and the names of
scores of university patrons and digni-
taries are listed on it before the name

 

of the graduating student appears. On
Dr. Anigstein’s diploma, for instance,
Frederick II is listed in letters six inches
high. Then come several other persons,
and lastly, the reader is informed, in
12-point type, that Ludwik Anigstein has
been awarded a Ph.D. degree, magna cum
laude.;

Obviously, the University of Heidel—
berg With its “impressive panoramic set-
ting instilled a love of learning that per-
sisted, for Dr. Anigstein went on to take

.two M.D. degrees, one at Dorpat in

Russia and one at Poinan in Poland.
Later,ihe did postgraduate work in T'ro-
pical Medicine and Hygiene in London.
He joined the «Faculty. here in 1940, and
has been a Professor since 1946. For
this sentimental journey to his home
university, all his friends here wish Dr.
Anigstein “auf Wiedersehen.”

 

 

MRS. WILLIAM A. HAMILTON,
left, has been appointed director of
volunteers for the hospitals of The
University of Texas Medical Center,
it was announced by Daniel Bobbitt,

administrator. Mrs. Hamilton, who
will coordinate the work of the Hos-
pitals’ Auxiliary, the American Wo-
men’s Volunteer Society, The Red
Cross’ Grey Ladies, and the Junior

Page 6

Red Cross, the Junior League Volun-
teers and Mrs. Charles T. Stone Sr.’s
production group, expressed a plea
for more volunteer workers to assist
the staff in caring for the thousands
of patients treated here each year.
Pictured with her is Mrs. Blanche
Wilson of Dickinson, one of more
than 100 women who work as Hos-
pital Volunteers.

 

Dr. Evans One of Five
To Make British Tour

Dr. E. Burke Evans, Assistant Profes-
sor of Orthopedic Surgery has been ap-
pointed Exchange Fellow by the Ameri-
can Orthopaedic Association to make a
tour of orthopedic hospitals and research
institutes in Great Britain this Spring.
Appointment as Exchange Fellow is an
honor that is accorded to orthopedic
surgeons who are under forty years of
age, and who have made an outstanding
contribution to their specialty. Three
other physicians from the United States
will also make the trip as Exchange
Fellows, as well as one appointee named
by the Canadian Orthopaedic Associa—
tion. The group will give two papers
during formal sessions of the tour.

The Exchange Fellow program is a
reciprocal undertaking of the American
and British Orthopaedic Associations.
One year, British physicians visit in
this country, and the next year, Ameri-
can Exchange Fellows visit England.
Last year, the Medical Branch was host
for a two-day program for the Exchange
Fellows of Great Britain.

The group will sail from New York
on March 15, and will leave England on
May 11. After they return, they will
attend the annual meeting of American
Orthopedic Association in Yosemite
where they will report on the tour.

 

MISSING F ROM
LIBRARY SHELVES:

Currently, there are about 400 books
missing, a few of which are listed below.
Please help to find and return them!

Among the missing:
Adams: Drug Addiction.
Berger: Blood.
Berghoff: Heart Disease.
Brown & Saucer: Electronic Instru-

mentation for the Behavorial Sciences.

Cory: The Homosexual in America.
Eccles: The Physiology of Nerve Cells.
J. M. T. Finney: A Surgeon’s Life.
Gemmill: Physiology in Aviation.
Wilhelm His: A German Doctor at

the Front.
Karpman: The Alcoholic Woman.
Kopetzky: Surgery of the Ear.

Leigh: Care and Handling of Dogs.
Lewis: Practical Dermatology for Med-
ical Students and General Practitioners.

Mainland: Treatment of Clinical and
Laboratory Data.
Moensch: Office Psychiatry.

 




 

Heart Career Day

Five hundred science—minded high
school students were Heart Career
Day guests at the Medical Center
Jan. 28, and the faculty of 14 de-
partments staged laboratory dem-
onstrations for them. It was the
largest turn-out of potential medi-
cal and nursing school candidates
ever to participate in the event,
sponsored by the Galveston Coun-
ty Heart Association.

The students, from as far away
as Beaumont, were members of
science clubs and tOp-ranking sen-
iors from 28 different schools.
Demonstrations of chemotherapy
and heart—lung pump techniques in
open heart surgery on an experi-
mental animal were given by a
team from the cardiovascular ther-
apy section in the morning and re-
peated in the afternoon for groups
of 250. Then, in groups of 10,
the students visited the other dem-
onstrations.

 

 

SH WN ON THE LEFT are Judy
Anderson and Norman Chapman,

 

two local high school students who
explained to the out-of-town visitors
how the various pieces of equipment
function. Both students have been
helping after school in the cardio-
vascular surgery section.

. nay/rm ”3......“ ..

 

 

y

waxw \\\\\\V-
V, v

 

LAWRENCE M. JOSEPH, gradu-
ate student in physiology, is shown
demonstrating use of equipment
used to measure contraction of the
heart, and blood pressure during
open heart surgery. An artificial
respirator is also being used.

l

 

 

PART OF THE STUDENT GROUP is shown watching in fascination at
a demonstration of an open heart operation on a dog. The heart-lung pump
oxygenator and respirator were used in the technique.

 

 

 

DR. JOE WALKER is shown de-

monstrating the use of a multiple
recording device during open heart
surgery. Simultaneous blood pres-
sure, electroencephalographic, , and
electrocardiographic recordings are
being made.

STRAINING AT THE BARRIER
waiting to get into the amphitheatre
of the Ashbel Smith Building are 250
students who attended the afternoon
demonstration of open heart surgery.

‘5

 

 

 

 

 

MISS BARBARA McGLOTHLEN,
student nurse from Port Arthur, is
showing a visiting student how a
Circo-electric frame works. The ro-
tating device is used for patients
who are difficult to turn because of
illness or injury.

 

DR. JAMES B. STUBBS, Presi-
dent of the Galveston District Heart
Association, is shown welcoming the
students in the Smith Building am-
phitheatre.

Page '7

 

 




 

 

 

Med Students Pay More

Medical students pay more than twice
as much as Ph.D. students for their edu-
cation and receive only one-fourth the
financial assistance from scholarships,
fellowships and assistantships, accord-
ing to a paper presented before the
annual meeting of the Association of
American Medical Colleges at Hollywood
Beach, Florida.

More than 80 per cent of funds to pay
the student’s costs of medical education
come from the student and his family,
according to a national survey of 4899
seniors last year, the Association re-
ported.

 

 

'54 Beds Added

Continued from pg. 1

wants a glass of water, he pushes a
button, the nurse answers over the in-
tercom, finds out what is. needed, and

then 'sends it. The amount of unneces-_
sary steps such an arrangement will save .

will be considerable.

The beds are especially distinctive.

The new Hi-Low beds have manual con-

trols for height, but from his pillow, .-

the patient can operate the spring by an
electric control. By merely pushing a
button, he can raise the head, the foot,
or the middle of the bed. About half of
the beds will be occupied by surgical pa-
tients, and about half by medical pa-
tients.

The new facilities increase the bed
capacity of the main hospital to. 688, and
the total for all Medical Branch units to
941, not counting the areas of the Marvin
Graves Hospital, now being remodeled.

 

UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER

The University of Ts Medcial Branch

Galveston, Texas

 

Room 10 3

_ New' nurses’ station 611 5A is
equipped with the latest time and
labor-saving devices. Both physicians
and nurses have access to patients’
charts through an open window
chart rack linking their two areas.
Other features are a separate room
where medications are stored and

prepared, a kitchen, linen closet, and
cloakroom. The physicians’ room is
equipped with x-ray view boxes.
There is a glass “Information Win-
dow” through which visitors can be
met without entering the work area.
Shown receiving a chart is Mrs.
Marlys Hardie. head nurse of 5A.

 

United Fund Giving For ’60 Tops Goal

The Educational Division of the Medi-
cal Branch exceeded its quota in the 1960
drive of the United Fund of Galveston
with contributions of $11,303, Dr. Howard
Swann, chairman, reported at the Fund’s
annual dinner this week. The donations
exceeded the $9,500 quota by 19 per cent.

The large increase in giving was prin-
cipally due to incorporation of staff phy-
sician’s contributions into the Medical
Branch solicitation last year, Dr. Swann

Mis s Virginia Dryden

l

 

reported. Previously those contributions
were listed as part of the city’s “profes-
sional men’s” donations. It was reported
that United Fund contributions of Gal-
veston physicians are more generous
than those of any other city in the
Southwest, on a per capita basis.

The Branch’s total giving, including
$2,499 from hospital personnel, an in-
crease of $700 over the previous year,
was $13,802.

B rackenridge H311

 




 

 

  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

A BY The London Observer

WASHINGTON - More
: than 1,000 highly trained
dogs are. to. be sacrificed
. during the next few years
‘ in a massive American ex-
periment to determine the
effectsof radiation on the
, human body.

‘ The research will take
" place at a specially built
laboratory in a military
reservation 12 miles outside
Albuquerque, NM. —'-—- an
area surrounded by desert,
sufficiently remote for the
populace to be safe from
the radioactive isotopes
which will be used over the
15 years of testing.

By then the Atomic Ener-
gy Commission hopes to
have found out just how
no uch radio-active atmos-
phere a human being can
safely breathe and what
treatment, if any, can be
given for an overdose.

 

 

 

 

 

 

In order to reach these
conclusions the AEC -
working in conjunction
with New Mexico’s Love-
lace Foundation for medi-
cal education research—-
will havevkilled off or per-
manently injured many
thousands of mice, rats
, and rabbits as well as an
estimated minimum of
; 1,000 beagles. ‘

“We shall use as many
animals aswe need,” said

and medical research, who
has been associated with
the project'f-rom the begin-
ning. '

—_———~

ready begun wi
rats, and dogs are now be-
ing bred and trained for re-
search which is expected to
to reach its peak in four or
five years’ time.
were chosen because they

highly inbred, short-haired,
have sociable natures, and

Dr. H. D. Bruner, the AEC do
assistant director for health miners.

MASSIVE EXPERIMENJ

Experiments have

Beagles

are a suitable size, not

 

are amenable to being han~
dled. . .

The dogs will be kept in
cagesﬂtwo to a cage to
prevent loneliness -— and
maintained in p e r f e c t
health until the moment
comes when they are given
the dangerous dose of radio-
active air.

Since the whole point of
the experiment is to test
the effect of radiation on
the lungs rather than on
the skin, the dogs will be
placed in protective plas-
tic bags while their noses
are put through a plastic
and rubber seal into a
stream of radioactive air
which. Will be contained
in a special vessel.

. "‘I have seen it done and
the dogs don’t mind it at
all,” said Dr. Bruner.
“There is no irritation or
smell, and with the doses
that we shall use there will
be no acute effect. Theac-
tion will be a long-term de-
layed one similar to the
damage that carbon used to
to the lungs of coal

’7

 

“Some of the contaminat-
ed animals will be held
throughout their life span

‘ so that we can determine Ibsen

will be killed
so that we can lear
the distribution
olism of the isotopes which
have been
would do a
autopsy as
ysis of the tissues, and from
that we would be able, to
reconstruct where the ra-
dioactive material is and
has been.”

Upgrading Broadway
Jack Richardson, a p l a y-

posure

writing.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inhaled. We
very careful
well as an anal-

To date little has been
discovered in this field—-
whether. for example,
most of the radioactive
material stays in the
lungs or is attracted to
other organs, and how

and metab- eye to
danger of radiation as re-
sult of fission or escape
from reactors. Its immedi-
ate aim is discovery rather
than cure. “Like research
into heart disease, you have '
to know about the structure
of the heart before you can
begin to treat it,” Dr. Bru-
ner commented.

 

 

 

 

 

much is excreted. The
AEC is hopeful that this
research project, which
will cost about $1,500,000
annually, will also help in
the study of other toxic
materials which are in-

 

 

1,000Dogs To Aid Study of Radiation '

al- the long-term chro
th mice and fects of radiation.

nic ef- kind in the world—4s not
Others only being made with the
off at intervals possibility of nuclear war
n about in mind, but also with an

the more immediate

 

 

About $5,000 will be in-

vested in every dog that

dies or drags out a living
death. Some of this money
will-be used to keep the
beagles innoculated against
all the doggy diseases that
they might get if they lived
a normal life. Dr. Brunner
remarked cheerfully that
“after all, a lot of the bea
gles will live longer than
they would otherwise do
because beagles kept as

 

haled.
The research—first of its

NEW YORK (AP)—
wright getting his first ex-
this season on
Broadway, feels there’s a
tendency to exaggerate
Broadway shortcomings.
‘.‘Every bad season is
redeemed by one or two
plays,” says the author of
the upcoming “Lorenzo.”
“It depends on who’s
I think several
new writers are working to
broaden the American the-
ater and get away f r o m

pets seem to have a habit
biles.”

near Albuquerque, side
projects also involving ex-
periments on dogs are being
undertaken at the Universi-
ties of Utah and California,
at Oregon National Labora-

University, Detroit.

So far the AEC has not
received any protests from
animal lovers. Dr. Bruner
said: “I suppose we shall
get some questions raised
about it, but so long as peo-
ple are assured that the ani-

sufferlng pain they will ac-

 

realism.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cept it.”

 

of running under automo-

In addition to the work

tory and at Wayne State

 

 

 

mals are not mistreated or .




38-. N0. FDZZ GDchzms M~ll~ O
5 “MW -11.... LABORATORY SURVEY 7 5

for
Registration to Keep or Use Animals for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Human and
Animal Diseases as Required Under Act No. 241, Public Acts of 1947

Institution ...._.__._. Section-..

1“...” .o-w-g a“.-- -m.~n—-~—1mn~~ -m-..—-o.-q~m -u -w- “an M..~.‘-'-- .—- -”.,,._....--

 

Address_u

 

 

Supervisor ”_ * _

 

 

-0...» -. .. m--*vm “u.“ . ~m..—..~... .-m~..~ ~~.--. . m-

; ANIMAL RECORD

~«-.Ms‘u- on.

 

 

M...~-~~—-.—. 1... ... ”—an n ..._.—-.. ~... M4.” .. m— «Uni _..,. Hg. --.~.~ “w

ISrec1es UseA 1_ No. Per Year q_ Purpose for Which Used .7. Source of Supply

. ...._..«.. «»‘.......~ w~-w-.-Q~ ----..——- .....--H..‘.........m~....- u .... --..-...M.-..i .....-....__.-..w...-.....-.~ .-

—-— p.....i-.... .».. - w

 

., w..- —'

 

I... ”ml-- ,.—-~-—o~u—..~- “1.. m-m /mw ra-w 4

 

C
I
i
9
L . .-- t - W} Hm... w -- n L... ...l.........l_.-w...__.... . -.. A - ....§

I

 

 

 

Wm--. n..-.................... m--- -.._.._.-- .... ........~ -....-.....~ ..

 

 

 

 

 

.. -....-. -¢~... .va...» w... ...... .. . . _ .. .. ..

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a... “pay-m...” -w. ~-~--—-—--——---——-- . n... ”my“ ~“~~.“-,_.

ANIMAL QUARTERS

‘ when, ....—_...-.-...w.. MW

‘Satisfactory Unsatisfactory

~~v>—..u,. ﬂ .. awn-.—

 

 

 

Remarks

.§ . ,._ t_.,..-_-,...._.- A.-.“ ._............._........l.......-..... v .-
i
3

 

l
1
1
I

Howelng ladilities 1
mentllﬁulOnufM‘H '”M "w“
Temperature Control
Digitinb ' I.“
SipﬁffrJ Fnc111t1es
Cage Construction
Page Size

.nxero1s1ng Da0111t1es

l
.. t... M-. -......,... ..... .. . .. -_. ._ .... . . ..--..... w-..-........_... -1--- rum.-.

\
«m .t. .

-.~..-.~.---....._.~.......—-..—,..~.~ A. ._ i 4-. -.....

 

l

.m sh... , ~.. ..~ ..

 

u... M. ..- m. .m. -4....-...1:._. aw...- . - ..

i
;
”build-r

..——.~._....- -W‘.~—.u- .— a..-

 

i

i
.- i ‘

mun—u-an-s ”*1 -miu —-.-.—- . ‘V g...

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

..,.. ‘

 

.--

“Aiﬁ IMAL SARA AND HAWDLIWG

.- ~ -..—« -. .. ... .0... - --.. u-vr .u—..~ ‘IMMW‘IM-- ”-1-

aim? ‘SfaPtOI‘y -. fUEliS j‘tlgiar‘tor—yf; H “‘Rema’rks

~-~ ~07 0 -. ....... ._-_... .. mm-q.——--a.p» 1- o... a..-»

quallfication of handlers

iFeeding Methods4?reot1ces- L_Hn "fwm‘wmw:k A G Di fﬂﬂhmwwumww~*~“~“*mn
2Nater1nr Methoas~truot1ces

iType of Litter
éCmée Swnitation
gAmount of Axerc1s1ng :1
General Comfort and Safety L
91erst1ve ProceAures ‘
gnwthods of Anesthes1ewwijwl . m7 ‘H‘mww “ m“. ”mwmnﬂm" éw"”"mmﬂwww'mmm"M"Mm
Bostoperetlve SeAetion
Irostoper tive Care “
.M

{metnoA oi Disno a1

. .1...“ ”—

 

~-.~c—.......y...~- >~———~.~q.—.—...v .--...... . m...- >maw-“.c .

 

w~~~m>oamm-¢-M . . .- 1.

-am.._’.~ . .... .-..

 

e,

 

 

 

u—u. —..-....-...——u~u-~..—.—. ~—_ mg... » 4..— »mm um...» .~- . . .v‘...--»—--.~N....... - ....«.._—.n. .4~~‘.——..-‘.m’~-.. .

 

 

*----

 

 

 

 

 

Date of Ins spection w,w.”‘W _mm-‘ ‘ Inspector

 

r-
MO“
-- .. _.-..__,..-......l._.i .. .m- . ”mm-..“ ...1. WW“... 1.,

 

c-‘,, .__. _ .. .... ”A”... -._.~...__.._....~.~ ...-t.. -. .._.-....... - _,,__....._...... ..-....... ........,.....,.. .. N.“ -.. u...

 

. ..~..-.....m. _ , ._.. .-.,.t .. .-.- a. . . -. .4 .. an..." -.—- .. ...~~.—. -- .,...... -

~;. -. --.. ._........__.-. ~l

 

 

. u¢unv<--m .y..-.~.a-~.. M.O~h-‘ ---'-'~..- “H—m.-I~—.mﬁ_ ﬂog"... . -—— -.

 

arc-on. H ..~— ow ... ”a...‘ —~..‘.A a... ,, . -— .. m... . "-m.-.‘ -,_.._. __.._‘-..‘.-‘-_. . ,

. o.» .- .~-.- 4 -... ....- no"- .. w- - our-Q. ._. awn‘nu- . . .‘m‘4 ”u M-v4~«.~... .- ~9~

 

 

4......-

 

oou—uuo own-am“...—

 

 

 

 

,tions

 

 

 

 




You have to keep in mind
that the animals suffer so
that people need not suffer.
And, at that, experimenters
try to keep the sufferings of
animals to a minimum.

The “cruelties” are in-
flicted for a purpose. I be-
lieve, after talking to scien-
tists in this area, that they
are doing all they can to
minimize the sufferings of
their animals.

I also believe the situa-
tion could be improved, but
this will take money and
time.

I DON’T think the pro—
posed laws before Congress
will essentially change the
conditions of animals in
~ laboratories.

‘ This animal thing is tied
up in the emotions of
everyone.

Scientists are losing their
prized emotional detach-
ment over it. This should
give you an idea of how
much importance they
place on their freedom to
investigate ideas with a
minimum of trouble. They
have enough trouble with
their work. They are look-
ing for answers in the dark
—~answers that do not yet
- exist.

Very often, they don’t
find an answer. And even
if they do, they usually
wind up with more ques-
tions than they started
,‘ with.

. I think it is better for
; scientists to answer these
: questions on animals rather
' than on people.

. This is because scientists

' can be wrong.

But at least they try to
be right. In the many in-
terviews and on the ques»
tionaires returned from
local hospitals, laboratories
and schools, a central
theme was apparent: Ani-
mals must be treated well
or the answers you get from

= them. will be lies.

 

 

. SCIENCE TOLERATES
only the truth-whether the
. research be done on an-
imals or lifeless electrons.

Scientists here are afraid
of what might happen if
Federal laws restrict their
research. But they aren’t
backing away from the
fight.

I was given full co~opera—
tion everywhere I Went—
With one exception.

And this involve-s science
only indirectly, like the
Manassas fiasco. An Indi-
ana kennel operator who
supplies dogs for heart re-
search at the Children’s
Hospital Research Founda-
tion here refused to let me
and a photographer inspect
his kennel.

It could be he has some-
thing to hide. It could be
that he was afraid. I think
he was afraid. He said, “I
don’t want all that pub-
licity. I know what you
newspaper fellas do.”

I couldn’t get into the
monkey room at the Wm.
S. Merrell 00., either. But
they had a different rea-
son. Monkeys are very sen-
sitive to human diseases.
Only a few persons there
are permitted to handle the
monkeys, and even these
wear caps, gown and masks
as surgeons do. And there
was no real need to go in.
'You can look through a
window in the door.

I have seen cats with
electrical contacts surgi-
cally implanted in their

 

 

 




A. dW._M~_Mm-Mm ~~ 'ANWK.V'A‘d‘wfﬁvv:‘-_’,5.,_/.,M\ a. w.‘_—./.w. _ 2/

THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER

Friday, Oct. 18, 1963

 

 

 

—Enouirer (Straub) Photo

Rats Surgicallv Linked

. shared bloodstream protects animal in study

~_ ~.M .. ,m f. n a. a—_ A W Wﬁm A.__—\ __1.~ ,.
» f .. v. ~“ we v w ' ‘ w "T — a

The Choice: Experiments On Animals -- Cr Humans

BY JACK SMITH
Enquirer Science Writer

'This is a personal re-
port—a summing up. I be-

to give you a true idea of
conditions ’of animal care
in local laboratories and
the reasons behind them.
This, despite the cardinal
rule of newspapering, keep
yourself and your personal
opinions out of your
stories. I have several rea-
sons for breaking this rule.
Among them: The full
story isvery long and bor-
ing. By giving you my im-
pressions of the situation
after several weeks of in-
vestigation, you will get a
better idea of the situation

. than from a long and com-

plicated look at local in-
stitutions. —-J. S.

To me, there is but one

way to stop cruelty to lab-
oratory animals, and that
is to stop research on ani-
mals.

 

.(Last Of A Series)

 

 

 

1

1
I
1
i
l .
i

I do not think that this
research should be stopped.

Many experiments are
hard on the animals. It is
not pleasant to watch these
experiments or their effects.

But the choice seems to
me to be: Experiment on
animals or experiment on
people.

 

Po'iﬂk’fh

lieve this is the best way W

brains for the study of their
brain activity. They act
normally except for one
thing. Some of them have
learned that the contact in
their head is sharp and
they try to scratch you
with it.

I HAVE seen rats which
had been frozen stiff and
whirled in a centrifuge at
speeds simulating a thou-
sand times the force of
gravity. This was part of a
study for ways to protect

astronauts against the tre-
mendous acceleration

needed for flights to the,

planets and the stars.

But the scientist got side~
tracked and may have
come up with information
which will help people suf-
fering from deep Shock—-
something all of us may
face in case of illness or
accident.

_I have seen animals with animals a year, including

''''''''
.............................

their bloodstreams linked
together like Siamese
twins. This hardly is a
comfortable situation for
them but it may give in-
formation on how to pro-
tect people against radia-
tion.

The list is long. Thou-
sands of animals have
their lives taken from
them here in cancer re-
search. Cancer isn’t a
pleasant disease, for ani-
mals or man.

0 t h e r animals breathe
heavily polluted air to pro-
vide information on the ef-
fects of air pollution—
something that affects all
of us.

There are more than 30
institutions here that use
animals for research and
for clinical tests for various
disorders.

They use more than 75, 000

‘ mice, guinea pigs,

ham»
sters, goats, pigs, dogs, rab-

bits, monkeys and chickens. ,.

THESE ANIMALS, in gen-p
eral, are well-fed, in com- [

fortable surroundings and
usually free of pain, espe-
cially for surgery. ' .

With their scientifically,

measured diet and con-
trolled atmosphere,
live better than you or I.

There is just that one

joker in the deck—many of
them pay for the good life

with their lives.
You may feel sorry for

these sacrifices to science”

 

 

 

 

 

they

 

But you Should also feel
sorry for the millions of

human sacrifices —- sacri-

<— -M.¢..—.-...,_.___.-_ ,

fices to ignorance.
The animals are the Re]
to knowledge

_—~..... _ .




 

NOVEMBER, 1964

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Strength, Confidence Experienced

By Humane Leaders Meeting
On Tenth HSUS Anniversary

The 1964 HSUS National Leadership
Conference, tenth annual meeting of hu-
mane leaders from the United States,
Canada and Europe, was the occasion
for a critical evaluation of humane
achievements of the recent past and a
courageous look at the great tasks that
will confront the movement for some
time to come.

Experienced observers noted in the
three-day proceedings, September 25-28,
conducted at Airlie House, a quiet re-
treat in the Virginia hills, southwest of
Washington, D. C., a sense of conﬁdence
in our ability to meet these challenges
and a quiet determination to approach
them with thoughtful strategy and well
laid plans.

In a major speech on laboratory ani-
mal legislation, the Hon. Claude Pepper,
Representative from Florida, set forth
speciﬁc ways in which the humane
movement can marshal its massive polit-
ical power to sway the Congress in favor

of a strong laboratory animal bill. Con-i

gressman Pepper, himself, has intro-
duced such a bill, identical with H.R.
4856, the Randall Bill, which is sup-
ported by The HSUS.

In a report on future HSUS work,
President Oliver Evans described a
unique research project to be conducted
jointly by The HSUS and the George
Washington University School of Educa-
tion. Findings are expected to alert na-
tional educational leaders to the need
for humane education in the schools.

The nature of humane education, itself,
will also be studied and, for the ﬁrst
time, systematic programs will be de-
veloped. The project is reported fully
elsewhere in this issue of the News.

Other speakers deﬁning humane prob-
lems and projecting plans for action
were Dr. F. L. Thomsen, HSUS Director
of St. Petersburg, Fla., who described
the many new kinds of cruelty attendant
upon the mass production of food ani-
mals and poultry; Mel L. Morse, Execu-
tive Director of the Marin County
(Calif) Humane Society, who told of
the abuse of animals in the ﬁlms and
other forms of entertainment; Osmond
Molarsky, HSUS Director of Educa-
tional Activities, who urged a greater
concern by humanitarians for the de-
predations upon wildlife by hunters and
trappers and through the indiscriminate
use of insecticides. R. J. Chenoweth,
Chairman, HSUS Board of Directors,
spoke comprehensively of the achieve-
ments of The HSUS in its ﬁrst ten
years. A symposium on the principles
of humane education was moderated by
Jacques Sichel, President of The HSUS
New Jersey Branch.

Committees meeting for further ex-
amination of these problems formulated
recommendations that were debated by
the full Conference and adopted as the
basis for a solid program of action for

the coming year in combatting the many

( Continued on page 4)

 

VOL. 9, NO. 6

NY Committee Of HSUS
Fights State Changes

In Anti-Cruelty Laws
The New York Committee of the

HSUS has announced its active partici-
pation in a uniﬁed effort by all New
York State humane societies to block
proposed revisions in the state’s penal
code that will make it nearly impossible
to obtain convictions on cruelty charges.

The prOposed changes in the entire
penal code, covering all crimes, includ-
ing cruelty to animals, tend to shorten
and simplify the language of the law so
severely that it becomes vague and
entirely open to the interpretation of
the court. Since judges are not neces-
sarily humanitarians, it is feared that
many cruelty cases will be punished
with light sentences or even dismissed.

It is to avoid this possibility that
changes are being opposed in anti-
cruelty laws that represent a century of
work by humanitarians, beginning with
Henry Bergh, to secure effective legal
protection for animals.

The basis for the changes in the New
York State penal code is a model code
proposed by the American Law Insti-
tute, a professional law society with na-
tional influence. The entire ALI section
on cruelty is reduced to seven lines, and
it speciﬁcally exempts medical research-
ers from any legal responsibility for

their actions.

Because of the widespread influence
of the ALI and the trend in many states
to adopt its proposed model, all humane
societies are urged to remain alert to the

(Continued on page 7)

 




 

Fast Action By HSUS Field Men
Convicts Dog Dealer In Bribery

Attempt On Shelter Operator

Prompt action by HSUS Director of Field Activities, Frank McMahon,
led to the arrest, on Long Island, of an illegal dealer in dogs and cats
destined for the research laboratories and promises to yield incriminating
information on the activities of other illegal operators in this ﬁeld.

A large cast of characters was involved in the drama that unfolded
following a phone call to McMahon, in Washington, from Mrs. Clair
Vogenie, head of the Shelter Committee for the Long Island Humane
and Dog Protective Assn. of Freeport, New York, a town on the south

 

shore of Long Island. Involved in
the capture, arrest and arraignment
of Donald Munson, the dog dealer,

were four Nassau County detec-
tives, an attorney retained by The
HSUS, a reluctant Assistant District At-
torney and his chief, the manager of the
Nassau County shelter, McMahon, and
his HSUS ﬁeld associate, Dale Hylton.

According to Mrs. Vogenie, in her
call to Washington, a recently appointed
shelter manager, Frank Whelan, re-
ported to her the offer of a bribe from
Munson, the laboratory animal dealer,
to sell him cats and dogs being held in
the shelter. Many of the sheltered ani-
mals were well identiﬁed pets with a
good chance of being reclaimed by their
owners. The bribe was a generous one,
and the animal dealer told Whelan of
lucrative beneﬁts enjoyed by other
shelter Operators who had cooperated
with him. Whelan, a man of principle,
and with no wish to see his charges
sent to laboratories, stalled Munson with
a promise to call him later and possibly
make a deal. He then notiﬁed his em-
ployer, the Nassau County humane or-
ganization, which forthwith applied to

The HSUS for help.

Reaching F reeport, location of the
shelter, the same day on which the call
was received, McMahon and Hylton

 

 

conferred with a local attorney and de-
termined that the dog dealer had been
guilty of “commercial bribery,” under
Section 439 of the New York penal
code. However, the best chance for con-
viction would rest in evidence of an
actual payment of the bribe, in exchange
for the animals, a drama which could

( Continued on page 4)

 

iii-

F rank Whelan, Long

research labs.

A bequest to The HSUS can help
insure the successful continuation
of humane work in the future. For
those contemplating such bequests,
The HSUS has an informative
booklet titled “How to Stretch
Your Humane Dollars and How to
Write a Will.” The HSUS also of-
fers an annuity plan that can give
you more tax-free income, while
providing substantial future help
for HSUS work. The HSUS annuity
plan is described in our booklet
titled “Lifetime Security Through
Humane GivinU.” Both booklets
will be sent to anyone upon
request.

 

Island shelter manager, begins unloading of dogs
and cats, for return to the shelter, following arrest of animal dealer
Donald Munson. Animals had been intended by Munson for resale t0

 

 

 




 

Humanitarian Of Year
To Mrs. Flemming For

Work With Children

From its inception, The HSUS has
recognized the outstanding work of in-
dividual humanitarians who have de-
voted much time and effort to major
programs of humane endeavor and who
with courage and dedication have de-
veloped new and successful approaches
to animal welfare problems. The high-
est award given by the HSUS, the Hu-
manitarian of the Year Award, this
year was conferred on Mrs. Hugh John
Flemming, of Fredericton, Canada.

The problem which has perhaps most
consistently resisted solution by humani-
tarians is the indoctrination of the
young in attitudes of kindliness to ani-
mals. Mrs. Flemming, wife of a Mem-
ber of the Canadian Parliament, has met
this problem by exploiting the club-
forming or group spirit of young chil-
dren and the accompanying instinct to
conform to the group and its ideals.
Thus, in 1959, with an article in The
Atlantic Advocate, a Canadian periodi-
cal, she introduced and launched a
movement comparable, in its organiza-
tional aspects, to the Scouts. It was
called The Kindness Club and has
spread through Canada and the United
States and now is making its appearance
in India, with the official blessing of the
Indian government.

Great recognition and prestige for
Mrs. F lemming’s efforts came when Al-
bert Schweitzer accepted the Honorary
Presidency of the Kindness Club, re-
sponding with a letter reproduced in
part, as follows:

“True goodness requires us to respect
the lives of all creatures, and I was for-
tunate in having this idea of reverence
for life approved by men of all nations
and seeing an immediate start in its
teaching in the schools. . . . You also are
seized with this idea. I am greatly im-
pressed by your letter. I am profoundly
moved, because we aspire to a new

humanity.”

Humanitarians Cautioned On

Rash of Weak Lab Legislation;
Urged to Support HSUS Bills

Bogged down with lengthy debates on such controversial matters as
civil rights, foreign aid and medical care for the aged, the 88th Congress
was forced to by-pass much important legislation, including ten bills all

purporting to reduce suffering for animals used in medical research.

According to Representative Claude Pepper of Florida, this legislation
probably will be considered by the Public Health and Safety Sub-Com-

mittee of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce early in
the 89th Congress. Humanitarians wishing to support effective labora-

tory animal legislation should be
well informed on the bills thus far
offered, several of which doubtless
will be reintroduced in the 89th
Congress, under their new House of
Representative or Senate numbers.

Of the ten existing bills it is the posi-
tion of the HSUS that only the Randall
Bill and the Pepper Bill, both identical,
will substantially help animals used in
medical research. The remaining eight
bills are Weak, permissive proposals that
must not be mistakenly supported by
humanitarians in the belief that the
pious intentions expressed in their pre-
ambles actually will be carried out.

Most of these bills would entrust
enforcement to the Department of
Health, Education and Welfare,
which itself uses hundreds of
thousands of animals annually in
research and has been sharply
criticized for its own treatment of
these animals.

The endorsement of the newly intro-
duced Rogers Bill by well known hu-
mane organizations such as the Ameri-
can Humane Association and the
ASPCA should not delude peOple into
believing that it will protect animals

from cruelty.

It is the position of the HSUS that
the AHA perpetuates the cruelties of
rodeos by ofﬁcially “supervising” an
activity in which pain, fear and dis-
comfort are inevitable, and that the

3

 

ASPCA, in selling dogs and cats to
medical laboratories, violates its re-
sponsibility for the humane treatment
of animals.

Careful examination of the prOposal
shows that, while regulations for the
treatment and handling of animals is
suggested, there is precisely no way of
enforcing these regulations. For ex-
ample, under the Rogers Bill, now
widely proclaimed by both the AHA
and the ASPCA, if an inspector happens
to see an animal suffering unnecessarily,
in a medical experiment, the inspector
is authorized to destroy the animal at
once.

This may be an inconvenience
to the researcher, but that is the
only penalty imposed upon him by
the AHA and ASPCA-sponsored
bill.

“Why do the AHA and the ASPCA
endorse a weak bill?” asks Robert J.
Chenoweth, chairman of the HSUS
Board of Directors, and answers his
own question. “Because they know that
their endorsement of a strong regulatory
bill would bring down upon them the
wrath of such powerful organizations
as the American Medical Association,
bitterly opposed to regulation of the
use of animals in medical research, and
it is the policy of old and wealthy so-
cieties such as the AHA and the ASPCA
to avoid a battle at any cost.

“At the same time, they cannot afford

(Continued on page 7)

 




 

Animal Dealer
(Continued from page 2)

be staged only with full cooperation of.
Nassau County law enforcement and
prosecuting authorities.

This, at least, appeared to be the end
of the trail, for Assistant District At-
torney Donald Belﬁ declined at ﬁrst to
order the investigation or to prosecute
on the basis of available evidence. How-
ever, persuasion by the HSUS ofﬁcials
and attorneys resulted ﬁnally in authori-
zation to proceed with the investigation.

The shelter

Whelan, now was instructed to call the

cooperative operator,
animal dealer and agree to deliver over
to him a number of dogs and cats, in
return for a speciﬁed amount of money.
The time was to be 10 p.m., Thursday,
Oct. 1.

McMahon and Hylton, and four
detectives from the Freeport Police
Department, were staked out in
strategic positions both for witness-
ing the transaction and for capture
and arrest, in case of an attempt to
escape. For additional evidence,
Whelan carried a miniature wire
recorder, which would leave no
mistake as to anything that was
said by the animal dealer, conﬁrm-
ing his offer of the bribe.

the

commercial name of Animal Supply and

Munson, who operates under
Research, arrived with an assistant in a
station wagon packed solidly with small
crates. The two men loaded up fourteen
dogs, two to a crate, and fourteen cats,
six to a crate. A red Irish setter and a
boxer, too large to be stuffed into the
crates, were chained in a small remain-
ing space inside the vehicle. Nursing
mother cats were among those taken,
one with a litter only ten hours old. The
kittens were left behind. As Munson
loaded the animals, he quickly removed
collars, license tags and all other iden-
tiﬁcation.

When he had ﬁnished loading the
dogs and cats, Munson handed Whelan
$112 in cash, started to get into the

station wagon and was immediately ar-
rested by the four detectives.

“He was the most surprised and
o 97
chagrlned man I have ever seen, Mc-

Mahon reported.

With this conclusive evidence against
him, Munson was brought before Ar-
raignment Court the following day,
where he pleaded guilty to the charge
of commercial bribery, was instructed to
post $250 bail, report to the Probation
Ofﬁcer at speciﬁed times until Novem-
ber 9, when he must appear in court for
sentencing. The animal dealer faces a
sentence of up to $500 ﬁne, one year in
jail, or both. However, leniency may be
recommended in exchange for informa-
tion leading to the arrest of numerous
other animal dealers who obtain dogs
and cats illegally from shelter operators
and dog pound employees. Only careful
selection of shelter employees by hu-
mane societies can insure against this
trafﬁc that condemns to medical re-
search not only unwanted stray animals
that should be mercifully euthanized but
lost pets, as well.

TWO NEW PERPETUAL
MEMBERS ELECTED

Several years ago, The HSUS, in or-
der to give recognition for outstanding
services rendered by dedicated mem-
bers, decided to establish a category
especially honoring the memory of such
individuals who had died, by electing

them Perpetual Members in Memoriam.

During the current year and since the
last Annual Meeting, the HSUS sus-
tained the loss of two of our most hu-
manely motivated and deeply cherished
friends and members, Fred Myers, Di-
rector of Education and Vice-President
of The HSUS, and Mr. Kurt Pollard, of
Santa Barbara, Calif, a generous con-
tributor to The HSUS and an active
participant in many HSUS programs.
Both men were nominated and elected
Perpetual Members in Memoriam, in
open meeting, at The HSUS National
Leadership Conference.

4

Conference

(Continued from, page I)

aspects of cruelty to animals in Ameri-
ca. This program, to be implemented in
national action and by the regional ef-

forts of HSUS Branches and Afﬁliates in

all parts of the country, emphasizes:

0 Additional protection for wildlife,
by further limiting of hunting and
trapping.

0 Continued support of The Randall-
Pepper bills, as the strongest pos-
sible legislation for the protection

of laboratory animals having a

reasonable chance of adoption by

Congress.

0 Demands for strict enforcement of
industry codes relating to the hu-
mane treatment of animals in en-
tertainment, supported by letters of
protest at scenes of violence in tele-
vision and motion pictures.

0 Advancement of humane education
through establishment of a com-
plete humane education library,
through winning the active support

of leaders in education, and

through discouraging the use of
live animals in school biology ex-
periments.

o Initiation of a program toward
legislation to protect food animals
from cruelty in mass production
and in transportation.

0 Establishment of a public relations
program intended to inform the
public of the real and valuable serv-
ices rendered by humane societies
and to improve the public image
of humanitarians and their motives.

For those who were unable to attend
this year’s HSUS National Leadership
Conference, a booklet is being printed
containing the principal speeches. It IS
hoped that the spirit of unity and de-
termination felt by all who attended
will be reﬂected in the pages Of the
booklet. A copy will be mailed to hu-
mane societies, Directors of HSUS
Branches and Affiliates, and 1:0 anyone

else requesting it.




 

1964

 

NATIONAL LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

 

 

 

”l

Conference opened in the cathedral-like barn located
on the grounds now being developed as The HSUS
National Humane Education Center.

 

One committee took under consideration each subject
covered in a major address. This is a session of the
Committee on Laboratory Animal Legislation.

HSUS President Oliver Evans announces Humanitar-
ian of the Year Award to Mrs. Hugh John Flemming.
Mrs. Hope S. Buyukmichi, close associate of Mrs.
Flemming in the Kindness Club, accepts the Award.

  
   

 

Conferees inspect the 18th Century stone dwelling
that will serve as one of the National Humane Educa-
tion Center’s facilities.

     
   

   
   

  

Two well known humanitarians, Miss “Edith J. Goode,
left, of Washington, D.C., and Mrs. R. Stuyvesant

Pierrepont of Princeton, N.J., are re-united.

    

w ,

Mrs. Irene Castle acknowledges applause at the An-
nual Awards Dinner, upon being named an Honorary
Director of The HSUS. Cleveland Amory, at the left,

served as toastmaster.

«a;

 




 

HSUS And GW University Join In
Humane Education Study Project

Plans for a major research project
designed to establish the value to ele-
mentary school children of humane edu-
cation and to discover the best tech-
niques for integrating humane educa-
tion into the school curriculum have
been announced by Oliver Evans, Presi-
dent of The HSUS, and Dr. Stuart R.
Westerlund, Associate Professor of Edu-
cation, George Washington University.
The project will be carried out jointly
by The HSUS and the University’s
School of Education.

The primary purpose of the study is
to establish scientiﬁcally and beyond
question that humane education has a
beneﬁcial inﬂuence on the child.

“I ﬁnd that a few universities pre-
eminent in the ﬁeld of education set the
pattern for the curriculum of virtually
all other teacher training colleges in the
revealed. “We
want the teachers who graduate from
these colleges to be imbued with a
knowledge of humane education and to
be thoroughly convinced of its value.”

The study would also evaluate meth-
ods of humane education now being ap-
plied and would build upon past experi-
ence in this ﬁeld to develop new and
more comprehensive
programs.

country,” Mr. Evans

techniques and

The study will be conducted in se-
lected elementary schools in the Wash-
ington, D. C., and suburban area. Ex-
perienced researchers in educational
techniques will Visit those elementary
schools in this area where an effort is
being made to imbue children with a
feeling of kindliness and consideration
for animals. They will observe progress
and will evaluate the results, both in
their immediate effect on the children
and by following up their careers and
personality development over a three or
four year period.

“As we have seen over the past three
decades, the theories and practice of

education are subject to drastic
changes,” observed Mr. Evans. “Let us
take advantage of this healthy Open-
mindedness in the educational leaders of
our nation to make humane education
as familiar a part of the school curricu-
lum as health education, citizenship and
even the three R’s.

“We hope to establish through this re-
search project the need for including
humane education in the school curricu-
lum, especially in the lower grades. We
hope the study will demonstrate that
kindness to animals is as much a key
to a fully rounded and generally kindly
personality as a knowledge of the multi-
plication tables is a key to simple arith-
metic, or that a familiarity with the
alphabet is essential to the mastery of
reading. A person who is not actively
kind to animals suffers a basic fault in
his personality. The person who has
learned kindness to animals at an early
age is a better person for it. That is
what we hope to prove.

“It is a philosophy we hope will be
adopted by leading educators. It is a
conviction we hope will be absorbed by
thousands of teachers graduating every
year from teachers’ colleges all over the
nation. Consideration for animals is an
attitude we hope these teachers will im-
plant in the minds and hearts of the
next generation.”

Funds are presently being pledged to
underwrite a preliminary survey which
will be supervised by Dr. Westerlund.

“We feel conﬁdent,” Mr. Evans said,
“that the results of this preliminary re-
search will qualify the University and
The HSUS for a major grant from one
of the large national foundations, to
pursue the study in depth and make a
full and convincing demonstration to
the leading educators of America that
humane education has a rightful place
in the curriculum of every elementary
school in this country.”

Humane Scholarship
Fund Established in
Name of Fred Myers

In the following brief but poignant
statement, Robert J. Chenoweth, Chair-
man of the Board of Directors of The
HSUS, announced to the 1964 HSUS
National Leadership Conference the
establishment of the Fred Myers Me-
morial Scholarship Fund.

“One can almost say that in his very
absence at this Conference, his presence
has been most keenly felt. I am speak-
ing, of course, of Fred Myers. Among
those most closely associated with him,
there has been an unspoken desire to do
something that would keep his name
and his inspiring example alive in the
memory of humanitarians, including
those who knew him only by reputation.
Many appropriate and seemly kinds of
memorial were discussed but none, it
was decided, would have pleased him
more than an instrument for further
extending humane education, in whose
power and influence he believed with
all of his great heart and intelligence.

“And so we have simply set up a
scholarship fund, calling it the Fred
Myers Memorial Fund, to be applied to
the training and education of students
at the National Humane Education Cen-
ter. I am happy to announce that, at
the outset, a gift of $25,000 has been
pledged to give the scholarship fund
substance and make it immediately Op-
erative upon the completion of the
Center.

“We are hopeful that this worthy me-
morial to a great humanitarian who, al-
most unbelievably is no longer with us,
will build to proportions entirely worthy
of the man for whom it is named, Fred
Myers.”

Beneﬁciaries of the scholarship fund
will include animal welfare workers
from shelters and humane SOCietieS
throughout the nation. Also eligible will
be teachers of elementary school chil-
dren, in whose impressionable young
minds humane attitudes must readily
take root and grow when carefully
cultivated by well trained adults.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Laboratory Bills

( Continued from page 3 )

to appear to be doing nothing, so they
support a bill which seems at ﬁrst glance
to be helpful to animals in research but
actually is so weak that no one who
might be subject to regulation could
possibly object to it.”

By contrast, the HSUS-sponsored
Randall and Pepper Bills spell out
in precise language the following
safeguards for animals used in
medical research:

0 All research projects must use the
fewest number of animals possible,
and animals must never be used
when a substitute method is avail-

able.

0 Animals used in painful experi-
ments must be fully and expertly
anesthetized, excepting when it can
be fully demonstrated that the use
of anesthesia would interfere with
the experiment.

0 No unanesthetized animal shall be
burned, scalded or subjected to ma-
j or surgery or any similarly acutely
painful procedure.

0 All animals that would suffer pro-
longed pain or stress as a result of
an experiment shall be painlessly
killed immediately after the experi-
ment is completed, whether or not
the objective of the experiment has
been attained.

0 Animals suffering pain after an
experiment must be given pain-
relieving care equal to that cus-
tomarily given to human patients
before, during and after similar
procedures.

0 All animals used in medical experi-
ments must be kept in clean, com-
fortable quarters and given good
food and water and adequate ex-
erc1se.

The actual wording of the Randall
and Pepper Bills is far more precise
than this, and a copy will be sent to

anyone, upon request.

The greatest difference, however, be-

tween the Randall and Pepper Bills and
the other eight entries is their air-tight
enforcement provisions. These two
HSUS-sponsored bills insist on super-
vision and enforcement of all the hu-
mane provisions by an especially cre-
ated agency of the Department of Jus-
tice, and applicants would be subject to
the penalties of perjury and fraud if
false statements were submitted in ob-
taining Federal funds.

7

“For these reasons,’ emphasized Mr.
Chenoweth, “no well informed humani-
tarian would ever signify to his Con-
gressman, newspaper editor or friends
his support of any laboratory animal
legislation other than the Randall and
the Pepper Bills, both to be reintro-
duced in the 89th Congress in 1965.
“Mr. Pepper, in voicing his hope for
the future of a strong bill, reﬂected the
enthusiastic support of the Pepper Bill
by voters in his own congressional dis-
trict. Letters in favor of the bill were
numerous and encouraging. Humani-
tarians everywhere must realize that
only through your own emphatic sup-
port of the Randall and the Pepper
Bills will your representatives in the
Congress be persuaded to vote for this
legislation, in the next session.”

N. Y. Committee

( Continued from page I)

possibility of such changes in their own
states.

Under normal procedure, a commis-
sion is appointed by the state to draft
proposed revisions, and humane society
representatives should request now from
their State Attorney General notice of
any such action. They then should ask
to confer with the commissions before
they begin drafting a revision that
would weaken existing anti-cruelty laws
and make it impossible for humane so-
cieties successfully to press anti-cruelty
charges.

CORRECTION

Contrary to a report in a recent HSUS
News no ASPCA inspector was present
at the July, 1963, closed circuit televis-
ion demonstration of veterinary surgery
in New York City. Investigation by the
ASPCA reportedly took place during
September of that year.

 

 

Clip and mail today

1
I
|
I
|
I
I
|
I
|
I
I
|
I
|
I
I
I
I
I

animal suffering.

voting member.)

NAME

A dollar is a miraculous thing. It is a man’s personal
energy reduced to portable form and endowed with powers
the man does not himself possess. It can go where he can-
not go; Iift burdens he cannot touch with his ﬁngers; save
lives and suffering with which he directly cannot deal.

—-Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick

 

The Humane Society of the United States
H45 Nineteenth St., N.W., Washington, D. C. 20036

I don’t want The HSUS ever to turn down any chance to prevent cruelty or

ENCIOsed is $ ---------------------- TO be used TO make your work possible. (GlTTS
to The HSUS are tax deductible. A gift of $5 or more can qualify you as a

 

STREET __

 

CITY, ZONE, STATE

 

7

 




 

Directors and Officers

Of HSUS Re-Elected
At Annual Meeting

In the annual election of HSUS Di-
rectors, held this September during the
National Leadership Conference at Air-
lie House, Warrenton, Virginia, the fol-
lowing national Directors, whose three-
year terms expired this year were
re-elected to serve until 1967: Edward
M. Bostick, Falls Church, Va.; Rob-
ert J. Chenoweth, Kansas City, Mo.;
Miss Edith J. Goode, Washington,
DC; Frederic D. Kerr, San Rafael,
Calif.; and D. Collis Wager, Utica,
N.Y.

The Reverend Charles N. Herrick,
of Derby, Conn., was elected by the
Board to complete the term of Oliver
Evans, who resigned last year from the
Board of Directors to assume the presi-
dency of The HSUS. Mr. Evans7 term as
Director would have expired in 1966.

Distinguished humanitarians added,
this year, to the roster of Honorary Di-
rectors of The HSUS are Mrs. Irene
Castle, whose Orphans of the Storm is
an internationally known shelter and
animal adoption center and who was a
leader in the ﬁght against pound seizure
in Illinois; Guy Miller, who for many
years has been the moving spirit behind
the Kansas Federation of Humane So-
cieties and dedicated most of his time
and a substantial part of his personal
funds to humane work; and Mrs. Mar-
guerite Ravenscroft, a generous and
often anonymous giver to humane so-
cieties throughout the United States.
Many ambulances have been bought
and many shelters built through her
contributions.

em Illu‘llclle'l 18$:

   
    
  

m 2mm; 7m

 

The ‘
Humeire Movement .
(19m  _

 

to be
a law!

   

of Cruelty in

.
-A‘“Q

 

. Puppies
and
Kittens

10,000

per hour

 

 

 

atrium) Ser‘iefe‘.

Neighbor

  

 

and {saw is:
:2 write?

A SERVICE OF

IUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES

5i3 IBIh STREET, NW, WASHINGTON 8, i). C.

5‘ .. I

The HSUS publishes many educational and technical books, booklets,
folders and leaﬂets with which not all members or all humane societies
may be familiar. Above are a few of our current publications. A copy of
any of them will be sent free to anyone, upon request. Larger quantities
can be had at low prices.

 

OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS

Robert J. Chenoweth, Chairman of the Board, Kansas City, Mo.; D. Collis Wager, Vice Chairman, Utica, N.Y.; Oliver Evans, President, Washington,
DC; Edward M. Bostick, Treasurer, Falls Church, Va.; Grace Conahan, Secretary, Webster Groves, Mo.; Cleveland Amory, New York, N.Y.;
Dr. Myra Babcock, Detroit, Mich.; Edith J. Goode, Washington, DC; Rev. Charles N. Herrick, Derby, .Conn.; Frederic D. Kerr, San Rafzel, C:l|lf.;
Prof. James T. Mehorter, Maplewood, N.J.; Mrs. George F. Milliken, New York, N.Y.; Jacques Sichel, Union, N.J.; F. L. Thornsen, St. Peters urg, a.;
Mrs. Edward S. Voss, Monkton, Md.; G. Martin Winemiller, Findlay, Ohio. HONORARY DIRECTORS: Mrs. Bolling Barton, Pikeswlle, Md.; C. Edward
Boggs, Hong Kong; Irene Castle, Lake Forest, III.; Mildred Fitz-Hugh, Lake Forest, III.; Guy P. Miller, Hutchinson, I(ans.; Mrs. M. D. Ravenscroft,
Santa Barbara, Calif.; Arthur P. Redman, Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Alice Wagner, Mountainside, N. J.; Alice Morgan Wright, Albany, N.Y.

8

 




Animals For Research

 

Fury Surrounds Beasts’ Role In Screntu‘lc Experiments

BY JACK SMITH
Enquirer Science Writer .
A gray barn near Washington may become as fa-
mous as Ft. Sumter.
It was the scene of the Third Battle Of Manassas.

You won’t find this battle in Civil War history books,
but it may become more important than the first two. '
The first two battles near Manassas, Va .-—a1$o called

the Battles of Bull Run, took place more than 100 years

ago.
The Third Battle of Manassas was last spring This

time the casualties were dogs and other animals destined

for laboratory research.

 

(First. of a Series)

 

Like warriOrs, more died of exposure and privation
then from bullets. Their sufferings may have precipitated
another Civil Wan—Science vs. Government ' ‘

Animals kept in the unheated gray barn were de-
griged of water early last spring when a pipe burst. Many

1e

Animal welfare workers brought suit for cruelty
against officials of Zoological World Wide, Inc. operators
of the farm. Testimony by Animal Welfare League in-
spectors resulted in a conviction and fine for Arthur J.
Abel Jr, manager of the farm.

Testimony showed that in addition to the animals
that died from conditions in the barn, others were shot
because they weren’t suitable for laboratOry experiments.
Investigators found ditches full of animal corpses.

The incident raised a big stink under the nose (if
Congress which has several bills before it to control the
living conditions and use of laboratory animals To date,

ENQUIRER
EXCLUSIVE

there are eight such bills. , '
Strangely, nOne of them have anything to say about
conditions in animal supply houses.

“The scientist is getting clobbered over and ayer with
this Manassas affair—and he didn’t have a thing to do
with it,” said Dr. Richard M. Hoar, assistant prefessor of
anatomy at the University of Cincinnati College of Medi-
cine.

Dr Hoar is chairman of the university’s Animal Care ,

Committee and president of the Southwestern Ohio
Branch of the Animal Care Panel. ,

He is an outspoken critic of conditions in many local
laboratories, ineluding his own. But he complains more of
conditions that interfere with scientific results than of
inhumane treatment.‘ ,

,. Humane handlingof animals is justone part-of the
care of laboratory animals, Dr. Hoar centends. It is
needed, but there are additional requirements from a
scientific point of view.

An official cf the national Animal Care Panel, which
had its annual meeting recently at Los Angeles, said that
research facilities which use laboratory animals soon will
have a national accreditation program similar to the pro-
gram used by hospitals for human patients. 1- - »

Dr. Bennett J Cohen, associate professor of physi-

. . é ‘ ‘
1 . . ._.‘ . ~ ~
. , . , . - . ,Q . -
1. o
1
1
1‘ ‘ x

. \
.Io- .

ology at the University of Michigan, said the program will
be a way of assuring the public that an institution is
maintaining professionally acceptable care of its eXperi-
mental animals. Dr. Cohen is chairman of the Animal
Care Panel committee which has drawn up standards of
animal care to be used by all research facilities.

The gruesome Manassas incident may have provided
the push needed to get an animal control bill through
Congress. It is an important factor in arguments for con«

, trol of animal use by Federal law.

This battle is not purely a Science Vs. Government
conflict. Underlying it all is a push by antivivisectionists
who would halt all research on any animal. It is a fight
that has smoldered for years.

Proponents of proposed legislation contend their bills

- are not antivivisectionist. This, scientists say, may be true

on the surface. But antivivisectionis’t and antiscience
forces are helping to drive the wedge of Federal law. And
scientists fear that once a legal wedge is driven hOme,’ the

. antiscience forces will eventually be able to hammer

home truly restrictive laws.
. Scientists Contend no Federal laws are needed be
cause local and state laws are edequate.

Ohio law permits inspection of institutions uSing
animals for research, for example.

And an unwritten law of science is judge, jury and ex-
ecutioner for the scientist who works with animals: Your
work is only as good as your animals. ,

Animals treated badly mean that experimental re-
sults may be way off. Animals in unsuitable quarters _Will
get sick and die, perhaps ruining months or years of ex,
periments. ,

TOMORROW.“ The paper dragon.

I

 




Page 40

THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER

Animals For Research

 

Wednesday, Oct. 16, 1963

Yes, Guinea Pigs Do Get Burned -=-
ay Be Saved

J'ut Children’s Lives

, BY JACK SMITH

j” Enquirer Science Writer
‘ They look like children
stuck in big snowballs.
A head, legs and arms
ism-ck out of a ball of gauze
and cotton padding-—
a monument to a burned
child.

There are children like
this. in the Burn Unit at
Cincinnati General Hospi-
tal, lying —- too quietly -—
,in bulky burn dressings. ’
W p The dressings are bulky
to ' soak up ﬂuids of life
that ooze from the 40 to
60% of the small bodies
that have been seared by
_ flames.

’ Their eyes are closed and
there are no signs of life—
unless you look closely. A
little girl’s hand twitches
and grips the frame that
keeps bedcloth-es away from
her body. At her throat the

skin ﬂutters in, time to her
heartbeat.

 

(Fourth of a Series)

 

In tortured bodies such
as these, a common germ,
harmless in other circum-
stances, becomes deadly.
Green pus is its calling card
and it often is a green light
for death.

There are other infections
too, lurking about the wide
door that an extensive burn
opens into the body.

They are the major cause
of death in burn victims
4—not the burn itself, “but
the superimposed infection
which becomes overwhelm—
ing—this is What we are in-
terested in,” said Dr. Bruce
G. MacMillan, director of
burn studies at Cincinnati

General Hospital. He is as:
sistant professor of surgery
at the University of Cincin—
nati College of ’Medicine.

Prime target of burn stud‘
ies is these deadly infec-
tions.

Dr. MacMillan base-s his
current investigations on
the observation that in
healthy, young adult hu—
mans, given the best mediw
cal care available today, a
third-degree burn that cov-
ers 50% of the body results
in death for 50% of the
Victims.

The last year has been
spent setting up this situa-
tion in guinea pigs to pro—
vide a scientific basis for
studying the effects of vari-
ous treatments.

Now, if a new treatment
or new drug improves the
survival of guinea pigs with
50%, third-degree burns
(burns through all three
layers of skin), scientists
will be reasonably sure that
the new treatment is re—
sponsible for the improve-
ment.

It took Dr. MacMillan and
his team about a year to
develop burning and treat-
ment methods for guinea
pigs so they could reliably
come close to the 50% rule
for humans.

In the study, guinea pigs
are burned with a device
that looks like a soldering
iron. Its head is about an

Scary Visitors

NEW YORK (UPI)--New
York was the scene of a
monster rally Tuesday
when a herd of dinosaurs
toured the town, then
headed for the 1964 World’s
Fair grounds.

The prehistoric creatures,
modeled for the Sinclair
Oil exhibit at the fair,
floated down the Hudson
River on a barge, were
given a civic welcome at
the battery, then sailed on
to the Flushing Meadow
fair site. They ranged from
a seven-foot ornithominus
to a 70-foot brontosaurus.

The dinosaurs were made-
of Fiberglas at Hudson,
N Y. They weigh upto five
tons each.

W Photo bv Lewis ‘J. O’Brien

Doped Guinea Pigs Get Burns To Aid Children

. . animals also get ether at time of burning

inch square. Its tempera-
ture is controlled by a ther-
mostat so that any desired

depth of burn can be made.

“The animal,” stressed
Dr. MacMillan, “is com-
pletely free of pain during
this period of burning.”

They are given a pain-
killing drug before the ex-
periment and at the time
of burning are put into a
“deep plane of anesthesia,”
using the open drop ether
method—“the same as is
used for children,” Dr. Mac-
Millan said. .

After the burn the ani-
mals are “out” for 15 to 20
minutes and when they
wake “there is no hyperac-
tivity to indicate pain,” the
surgeon said. Burns are
made on the backs of the
animals, which have rela~
tively few nerves.

This is not, however,
child’s play for the guinea.
pigs. They are able to go
to the water bottle in their
cage soon after awakening,
but do not begin eating for
about two days, Dr. Mac—
Millan said.

But there is a reason for

55353;:f353'iriSis-‘77:}:13:3;33E33535525:3:5:?=:.5:;53335555355953335.251.23535351:s355.35555553:?2559135535555553."553355555232‘5 the1r Suffering -— that tiny

pulsebeat at the throat of
a burned child which too
often flickers out.

TOMORROW: Animals or
children?

Pigs Started It

DES MOINES (UPI)—The
ruling of the Supreme
Court of the State of Iowa
began:

“On May 31, 1961, five
little pigs went to market.

“Thereby they put in mo-
tion the sequence of cir-
cumstances which brought
about the present litigation.

.“We are not told of, nor
are we concerned with, the
future history of the pigs;
it is the check drawn in
payment for them with
which we are involved.”

Whereupon, in the deci-
sion handed down by Jus-
tice G. K. Thompson Tues-
da , the court reversed the
co viction of Merlin Kulow,
a i ivestoc‘k buyer, on
0. rges of paying for the..-

with a fraudulent

 




THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER

Monday, Oct. 14, 1963

 

 

 

Animals For Research

 

Experts Say Strict Control
Would Hamper Their Werk

BY JACK SMITH
Enquirer Science Writer
“War,” said .‘William' Te-
cumseh Sherman, ‘is hell.”

This pungent observation
by the great Civil War gen-
eral fits too well the
seething conflict that is
boiling to the surface.
The subsurface battle is
between organized. animal
lovers and science.

 

(Second of a Series)

 

On the surface is a move—
ment for greater legal con-
trol by the Federal govern—
ment of research on ani-
mals. .

This, scientists say, will
mean greater government
control of research. It also
will mean less research be-
cause proposed laws would
experimenters and more
than now-a paper dragon
to stifle progress.

Scientist could not as “
., a system to tell them if

easily shift research aims
to follow up promising
leads — special permission
would be required.

THE ADDITIONAL paper
work alone worries most
scientists. Dr. Clifford G.
Grulee, dean of the Uni-

versity of Cincinnati Col- 7

lege of Medicine, summed
up this attitude: “I think
this is an important situa-
tionu—it can nearly ruin us
if we have to make out 16
copies. . .

As in a war, the animal
situation is confused. The-re
is no clear road to be fol-
lowed and the “right” is on
both sides. '

National magazines re-
cently published articles
charging “big science” with
eilan‘WlOdS cruelty to ani-
mals.

This chargeis true in a
sense. Cruel experiments
are carried out every day
in laboratories in Cincin-
nati, the nation and the
world. ' ‘

They. are cruel in the
sense that animals are
crippled, burned or made
sick. It is not always pos—
sible to do this painlessly.
Even if anesthetics are
given for painful experi-
ments, it is not possible to
keep the animals. doped
until they recoVer. There
will always be at least
some discomfort.

It is standard practice to
give anesthetic to animals
during painful experiments
unless the pain is part of

reports and letter-writing Etific

% quire many man hours or

the experiment or the study
is of pain itself.

THE PROPOSED laws
would require that anes-
thetics be given for pain»
ful experiments unless the
pain were necessary to the
experiment. Then, special
permission would be re—
quired for painful experi-
ments.

Some sort of pain czar
would be required to pass
judgment on the need for
such experiments. Science
today is so huge that the
pain watchers could never
in a reasonable time find

out if such work had been
f done before. Even a cursory,
require licensing of animal SETUP for. 511011 1nforma-
gtlon 1n the mass of s01en-

journals would re-

computer hours. _
Scientists would welcome

their proposed work had
been done before. In apply-
ing for government grants,
they must do a great deal
of searching on their own.
They must present a rea-
sonable proposal and back
it, up with facts.

Usually, the researcher is
a specialist. He picks out a
tiny segment of a small
field of science to work in.
With the frantic growth of
science today, it is the only
way he can keep up.

But his specialization
puts him in a position of
knowing more about his

tiny area than anyone. He
' is in the best position to

know if his research is

needed

ONE OF THE MOST hor-
rifying c h a r g e 5. against

“cruelty” in the name of.

science involves Harvard
University. There, dogs and
pigs were exposed brutally
to flames. A rt 1 c l e s using
this ammunition neglect to
mention that the U. S. gov-
ernment asked that the
studies be done and that
the animals were given
pain-killing drugs.

They also overlook the
reason for the experiments:
American soldiers were be-
ing brutally burned with
enemy flamethrowers.

Doctors didn’t know the
best way to treat these
burns. They didn’t know
how to treat soldiers and
sailors who breathed

flames. The information
from these experiments has
been credited with saving
the lives of American serv-
icemen.

This work took place 20
years ago but is trotted
out today as if it “were the
sadistic, daily preoccupa—
tion of a large segment of
science. '

As in any war, both sides
do not fight quite clean.
The American Medical As-'
sociation tried ridicule in
an editorial in a recent
issue of its journal.

It called “neo-antivivi—
sectionists” who want the
Federal government to po-
lice use of laboratory ani-
mals “humaniacs.” g

Most of the humane
groups backing Federal
legislation say they believe
scientific research is essen-
tial and they are only try-
ing to improve the lot of
the some 200 million ani-
mals used each year in the
United States.

THIS MAY be true, but
there are units in their.
camp that flatly state that
all animal research must
be stopped.

A beautifully-done, full-
p a g e advertisement ap—
peared in the September
issue of Town & Country
magazine, the issue ‘that‘
featured Cincinnati. _

There is a large photo—
graph of a pug-nosed. ‘
puppy with large and very
sad eyes. The puppy speaks
on theology—through the
mind 0f the ad copy writer.
It says, “Do you expect
God to forgive you if you .
do nothing to keep me from
b eing tortured in a re-
search lab?”

Further down in the ad
by the Vivisection Investi-
gation League, the copy
reads, “Many humane per-
sons now call for ‘regula—
tion’ 'iaws, but such laws

-‘ have been tried in Eng—
jland and have been a

afiasco. ABOLITION is the

‘ iansw er.”

This leaves no doubt

about the aims of at least

some of the forces backing
Federal legislation.

TOMORROW: We who are
about to die.

 




Em THE CINCINNATI ENQULRER. Tuesday, Oct. 15,. 1963,19.

Animals For Research

Living Standards Are High;

BY JACK SMITH

 

 

 

Ousing Is Big Investment   .

all the foo-delements he

' Enquirer Science Writer

‘ The t ypi c a l laboratory
animal lives b e t t e r than

. He gets a scientifically-

measured diet containing

 

needs. _
He has his cage cleaned
several times a week—not

merely washed but Steam

sterilized.

He lives in a carefully-

controlled, air - conditionediﬁ...” Reading drug manufactur-

 

 

 

 

 

atmosphere, with the tem-

perature kept within a few.

degrees of 7-5 and the hu-
midity near 50%, . .
Ventilating systems
change the air in his room
10 to 15 times an hour. .

pens are provided at some

Cincinnati institutions.

L
if

. Third of a Series

 

claim to have ideal animal

reasons for this and among

of science in recent. years
which has outstripped some
facilities. In addition, there

..“ideal” is. _ »

The Children’s Hospital"
Research Foundation, for
example, is running. out of

cages are stuck here an

ways. Two sets of racks are
kept. in a power supply
closet, little larger than a
telephone booth.

The animals have taken

dationr is taking a hard look
at a new building to house
animals. ‘While the . facility
has not been approved by
the board as yet, animal re—
quirements probably Will
dictate a $500,000 invests
ment.

The Wm. S. Merrel-I 60.,

 

MuSkrats Cause V

Dam To Collapse

MARYVILLE, Tenn. (1P)—
‘Muskrats were believed j to
have caused the collapse of
a 70—foot high earthen dam
about four miles east of
here. :

Elmer Lambert, the
owner, said Monday musk-
rats had been burrowing
through the dam. The
water flooded mainly bot-

.tom lands Saturday. There

were no injuries, but Milton
Dickenson and Larry Alm-
b-ert, both from near Marys-
ville, had to climb a» tree
and wait for a boat after
their truck was washed off

the road.

 

I .3 _

Few 10 c al institutions‘v‘
quarters. There are many?‘
them is the lack of money "

for better quarters an-d'threg'.
sheer speed of the growth;

is some question of what

space. Racks of rats

’ .ﬁ

noted Dr. James Newberne,

M

there, overflowing into nan;

over needed la b o r a t o ry 3‘

a, is building a $2.5 mil-
eggion addition to its chem~
3‘31cal r e s ea r c h lab-oratory
{which will feature special
g‘iareas for animal care. In
addition, the present large
animal building will be

Usually his cage isxlarge y'f'kept f0r more animals.

enough for adequate exer-
cise and in the case of,
larger animals, such as
; dogs, cats 01' goats, exercise +~cage washing and steriliza-
- tion and frequent air
changes, the animals there
glare exposed at all times to
classical music piped into

Merrell has added an unL

,j'iusual touch to present an-

imal care facilities. In ad-
dition to air conditioning,

feach room.
The music cuts down on

thespontaneousdoggy
‘1; chorus which is an occupa-
itional hazard where there

are large number of dogs. A
canine chain reaction is set
.3 off whenever o n e of th e
group finds something to
'bark or yelp about. In a tile-

glined laboratory, this is a
_ noise beyond description.

The music comes from an

,FM radio station and has to ‘

be Continuous (a canine crit-

Zécism of commercials?). “It

'as-‘aTVery Calming effect,”

,a veterinarian who heads

K’Merrell’s Pathology-Toxicol-
:j. ogy Department. His depart-
, ment- procures and prepares
1 animals for all other Mer-
. :g; rell units.
_ 1. The University of Cincin- ‘
space. _ ‘rgfnati College of'Medicine has
Because of this, the fauna.

fg-aa» need for a large, central
animal house. Such a facil-
ity would cost about $750,000.
unch of the expense of
animal quarters can be at-
tributed to the special
equipment needed to keep
animals clean, fed and

healthy so that they will be .

useful scientific tools, said
Dr. Richard M. Hoar.
" Dr. Hoar is assistant pro-

'. ,, féSsor of anatomy at the

College of Medicine, chair-
man of the university’s Ani-
mal Care Committee and
president of the Southwest-

ern Ohio Branch of the Ani— .

mal Care Panel.

. .- The Animal Care Panel is ’

anational organization of
scientists, animal breeders,

cage manufacturers, feed‘

manufacturers, veterinari-
ans and animal caretakers
Which is. promoting higher
standards of animal care.
,Z'Cne of the problems in
animal care today, Dr. Hoar
said, is to find the best
standards. N 0 one knows,
fdrexample, the proper size
for a cage for a given ani—

- mal. Certain sizes are rec-
, orpmended for various ani-

 

 

 

 

 

 

mals, but there has been
no real investigation of

What the animalneeds, Dr.

Hoar said. »

There also is a need for
training standards for ani-
mal caretakers, he said.
Most of the trained person—
nel today get their training

on the job. This, said Dr.

Hoar, also ineludes the sci-
entists overseeing a project.
Even a highly trained sci-
entist. can be ignorant of
the needs of specific ani-
mals and this can result in-
tragic errors that ruin ex-
periments and waste ani-
mals.
TOMORROW: Skin Deep.

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

 




    

 

m errant

Baalc Requirements”
To THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR:

May I update your readers on. the
status of several bills now pending in
Congress concerning the regulation of
animal experimentation?

As the result of an aroused public
opinion, there are now six bills pend-
ing in Congress, whereas a few weeks
ago there was~on1y one. Two of these
bills are practicable and workable and
are endorsed by the excellent and effec-'
tive Society for AnimalProtective Leg-
islation. Another, ' unfortunately, con»
tains clauses that would be very likely
to defeat it. Three others are so weak
that, they are merely “side—tracking
bills” (as one senator has called them),
no better than nothing.

The basic requirements for any ef—
fective bill include provision for: (l)
Unannounced inspection by 7 qualiﬁed,
full-time inspectors with access to quar-
ters, laboratories and records. (2) In-
dividual licensing by governmental au-
thority, with the right to remove li-
censes for failure to comply with the
law. (3) Pain-curbing provision. (4)
‘ Humane care and housing. (5) Par-
ticular regulation of student work, as
distinct from research conducted by
qualiﬁed scientists. (6) The keeping of
adequate records.

The two bills which have these basic
requirements, and which stand a chance
of passing. are bill 8-533 (the Clark-
Neuberger-Young bill.) in the Senate,
and bill HR. 5430 (the Ashley bill) in
the House of Representatives. These
'bills are identical, and are based on
legislation that was passed long ago
in Britain. and which has been
effective there in curbing cruelty in
connection with laboratory work. It is
unthinkable that the United States
should lag so far behind in humane
regulation. .

The three weak, useless, side-track-
ing bils are bill S~1041 in the Senate
and bills HR. 4840 and HR. 4843 in
the House.

Bill HR. 4856 (the Randall bill) is
endorsed by the Humane Society of the
United States and would require en-
, forcement by the Department of Justice.
It has, the basic requirements, but goes
further, containing clauses that might
very well render it self-defeating.

Citizens who deplore the cruelties
which have come to light, and who
want the enactment of a practicable, en.-
forceable bill, should write at once and
ask their senators to support bill 8-533
and to oppose bill 8—1041. They should
ask their representatives to support bill
H.R. 5430 and to oppose bills HR. 4840
and H.R. 4843. They should also address
letters to Senator Lister Hill, chairman
of the Senate committee on Labor and
Public Welfare, and to Rep. Kenneth A.
Roberts, chairman of. the subcommittee
On Health and Safety of the House In-
terstate and Foreign Commerce Com-
mittee, urging both committees to re-
port favorably on bills 8-533 and HR.
5430 and to exclude 'the weak bills.
These are the committees that have the
bills in charge: and unless they report
favorably on the eﬁective bills, these
will not even come to vote. '

SILENCE BUCK BELLOWS

Brookline, Mass.

7.6 briefer they are. the better is the prospect of
une no responsibility for statements made.

 




   
    
    
 
 
   
  
 
   

     
     
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
    
  

 

humanitarian reasons, but also

For "IO”,O'O
In Laboratory ,

Animals used for i'scientific

ests 'never had- ‘it
thanks
OWYZ administrator-of the Uni-
Versrty of Illinois medical re‘
search laboratory in Chicago.
A native of Chicago Heights,
Dr. Dolowy is responsible for
the care of thousands of, mice
and rats and a smaller? number
0t dogs, rabbits, cats, chickens,
plgeons, hamsters, guinea pigs
and ‘a few rarer species.

He directs, the Operation 0f

,so.‘ good,

the 352,250,000 research labora"

tory which is home for 10,000
animals used in research in 23
departments of medicine, den-
tistry and pharmacy. '

a: sea

EVEN HEALTHY animals
get treatment accorded to" few
sick humans -—-,including ster-
ilized food containers, rooms
and steel cages, and their own
nurse and veterinarian.

“We go, to such lengths. to
care forour animal subjects for

for good practical scientific
reasons,” said Dr. Dolowy
whose early schooling was at
St. Joseph grade school and
Bloom high school in Chicago
Heights. '

“The success of our work de-
pends upon preventing extran—
eous factors from misleading
our research,” he said, “It’s
actually more economical to

to Dr. William C. Dol-

 

 

  
 

Dr. William C.'D010wy,'a‘dhiinistrator of the
University" cf Illinois medical, research center,
inspects animal cages,.before"_lthey are placed in cility.
the productivity of 0111“ search modern methods of steriliza—
for new knowledge“ With Which tion and production developed
to savelives.” g in germ-free laboratories, such
One of the 35—year-old, VQf— as the U Of I plant. ' M“
"erinarian’s main interests o‘isﬁi‘fn Dr. Dolqu predicts the/{13¢
cost analysis of germ-free sins of germ-free animals in bielogil‘i
ea pigs, Chickens and mice 1°62? cal research will increase in;
use in medical,- IGSEaTCh- ‘ he veryenear future and could '
" if ' ' very veil he, ne of the most

 

 

“fl“

-4.

.._-_.__...___—..~_.-u—_§___.._ v..—

 

 

have excellent .laboratOry ani—I

HIS FINDIMiS.lteltaaledvgtht ll’npO t
l ,__-_-,.-

r ' ’55.“ >5 if
_ , . . _ _ ,, .‘ ant; ass i" in which new -‘
cost ‘of- theu'germ'dree- “emmn team“ any” . .

,.

 

sterilizer. Animals used for scientific tests get
the best of care at the university’s modern fa-

 

needle because most are used
in feeding, pill dosage, vitamin
evaluation and other research
which does not require surgi-
cal procedures.

  
 

 

 

;unit for the a n i mal quarters
supplies Sterilized air at con-
trOlled temperature and humid-
ity. The animal “club” is so
exclusive that new a r r iv a l s
aren’t allowed to mingle freely
until after a month’s quaran-

tine assures they are‘ free of,

diseases.

Each of the small animal
rooms has a controlled tem-
perature range between 68 and
78 degrees. The relative humid—
’ity is kept between 40 and 60

per cent, with a, 100 per cent

turnover of air and no recircu~
lation.

,‘MﬂPreliminary results indicate

 

_-*‘the latter feature has lOWered
jthe incidence of reSpiratory in-
{ fection by preventing c r 05 s-

Contamination.
Several small-animal rooms

[are used for contagious dis-

ease work in which animals
are injected with agents infec~

iltious to humans.

An air leaving the complete-

lly isolated cubicles is inciner-

rated for three seconds before
{being expelled 85 feet abov
ground. . -
:1: :‘s =l<

APPROXIMATELY 130 sci-
entific projects, conducted by
individual scientists, are in
progress in the building at any
given time. The modern facility
is manned by a staff of 25 per-
sons, including a veterinarian,
nurse, medical technicians, an
accountant, clerks and animal
caretakers.

. In' addition to his role as ad-
ministrator, veterinarian and
researcher, Dr. Dolowy is now

 
  

 

   

A 320-TON air-conditioning-

 

" Based in a new“ activity. He is rewarded

. ... «w- «w.,.. mm.;-m¢~< '

conducts a 30~minute medlcal
series on radio stations WIND
and WLS‘. The show, featurlng
members of theUniversrty of
Illinois medical center staff, IS
heard on WIND at 7:33 pm.
each Thursday and on WLS
.each, Sunday at . 10:30\ am. ..

 
 
  

  
  
  
  
   
    
  
    
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
     
 

  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
     
     
         
           
    
   

  

 

'it benefits the field of medicine.

Thornton Junior college in

 

A baboon who “lives” at the medical center
by Dr. Delowy, Fresh fruit is on

. Dr.“ Dolowy believes the
show offers him an opportunity
toexplain to the public the
work of researchers and hOW

Dr. ' Dolowy graduated from

 

1945. From; April, 1945, to July,

the daily menu
regular food.

   

  

   

1
,‘r

1946, he was an electrdhiiclg.

2.}

technician. in the U. S. Navy .
In 1948, he received a bash:
eldr degree in chemistry from:

the University of Illinois-A

year later, he received his mas-o
ters in 7colngy,
(Continued on page 45) l

 
 

of baboons, in addition to their

   
    
     
    
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
    
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
  

  
  
  
   




 

 

 

 

‘; {Cbﬁgnued frbm page 8)
f The ‘hi‘cag’o Heights native
receivedi‘his doctorate of vet-
,erinary-Gmedicine 'in 1953, from
”the U.L~0f I. .

DR. :DOLOWY was engaged
in private praCtice until March,
1954, when he was appOinted
to the position of administrator
of the uniVersity’s animal hos-
pital..._In 1955, he was named
a veterinary consultant, at the
Mount Sinai medical research
foundation, a position he still
holds. Since 1954, he has been
a consultant to the staff at
Presbyterian-St. Luke’s hospi-
tal.

The veterinarian was named
administrator of the medical
center in 1961.

In 1960, he w a s appointed
consultant to the Illinois State
Psychiatric institute and the
West Side Veterans administra-
tion hospital. '

Dr. Dolowy is a member of
the American Veterinary Medi-
cal association, the 111 i n o is
State Veterinary Medical asso-
ciation, Animal Care panel, the
Illinois Society for Medical Re-
search, and isa fellow of the
American Board of Laboratory
Medicine.

The latter group is a special-
_ty board of the AVMA and
members must have five years
of experience in laboratory an-
imal medicine, a master’s de-
gree and pass a written ex-
amination in the field. Dr..Dol-
owy. was lane ‘of. the first of
two- veterinarians to take and
"pass-g‘the exam.

HE :ALSO;_IS agmember of
the“-r;iCi.’onfere'riCe of" Research

’oscn Claims; 10,00 a

Workers in Animal Diseas
tion committee of the .Americ.
College of. Laboratory Ani
Medicine.

Dr. Dolowy’s parents,

lived in Chicago Heights
more than 50 years. ._
His sister, Paulette, is f

school teacher at Mount C

mel grade school. His brot

 

S‘P aﬁenfs' :

.Herbert, is a book "’eiiamine'rT

for the federal reservebank. .
Martin Dolo'w y, ‘Dr. Dol- ’
owy’s uncle, is a Chicago}

Heights attorney and a mem;
and Mrs. William Dolowy, ha '

ber of the city plan commis;

3 .sion.

’ .Dr. DoloWy lives with his
Wife, Joan, and their two. chil—l
dren, Beth, ‘6, and Cynthia, 2,;

 

t 924 ' ' " ‘
_ a Keystone, _R1ver Forest:

 

 




 




r122- | ' : ' o e a eagan
Ferguson, grandson of the late Senator John
H. Reagan.

 

RECORD OF VERMONT COWS IN
BIGGER AND BETTER HIKES

Mr. AIKEN. Mr. President, without
meaning to belittle in any way the ambi-
tions of the White House staff or the ac-
complishments of the Ofﬁce of the At-
torney General, I desire to ask unani-
mous consent to have printed in the
body of the RECORD an article entitled
“Brandon Cows Once Walked 1,200
Miles.” The article was published yes-
terday in the Rutland, Vt., Herald.

Mr. President, the article refers to the
time when two Vermont cows, named
Alice and Tomboy, walked from Brandon,
Vt., to St. Louis, MO., a distance of 1,200
miles, in 90 days. To be sure, that was
less than 15 miles a day. They could
have walked much faster; but besides
walking from Vermont to St. Louis, to
show their physical , ﬁtness, those
two cows gave an average of 40 pounds
of milk a day while they were on that
90-day hike.

1963 co *

If it were not for that, I would be
tempted to challenge—on behalf of the
Vermont cows—the White House staff to
a walk of any distance of 2 miles or
more. But inasmuch as the production
of 40 pounds of milk daily would present
an insurmountable obstacle to the White
House staff, I shall forego issuing the
challenge at this time, and simply ask
unanimous consent that the article be
printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:

BRANDON Cows ONCE WALKED 1,200 MILES

BRANDON.——Some of the older folks in this
tiny town have to smile when they read
about all the 50-mile walks being taken these
days. They remember the feats of a pair of
Vermont strollers back in 1929.

Alice and Tomboy were their names, and
they walked 1,200 miles in 90 days from
Brandon to St. Louis, Mo. They were headed
for the National Dairy Show where they be-
came star attractions.

Alice and Tomboy were prize Ayrshire
cows. Their walk across seven States, with
three men accompanying them, was a stunt
to promote the breed at the show. The
bossies were equipped. with ox shoes for the
summertime journey.

Vermont Life magazine reported that right
up to the last mile Alice and Tomboy aver-
aged 40 pounds of milk daily.

The three men took turns leading the cows
and rested in a truck they used to carry
their equipment.

 

 




agﬁggﬁg ”QM“:
FFA

 

”AMW .2” A , "
AAA. FAMAA AAA AAA AAA "-‘:~A.‘LA%AATA'= A“?
"FWEMF AW ﬁr: 315430” i5 43‘” AAAAAFF )
FAWAW AAA. ”AAA?" "7'
A333 3.1% “FAA? A;;A,‘A.:.’1’.. Ali"3z:'.AATAMWAA‘MA
mymgm; AA“ AAA" {AAA AAA "
AAAIA.‘ AAA”: AAA AAA {MALI ‘
'AAAAAAAAAAAA-Ax AAA AAA‘AAAAAAAAAAEA‘ AAA
AAAAAA. " ' L "
A MAW

., 5- ' AAAAAAA AA AAAA AAA 3
AAA Sm AAA AAA. iin‘Wﬁ AAA AAA?
AAA , . AA. AAA AAA" AAA;
”AAAAAA AWAA‘AAAAA AAA "AAA?“ AAAA.A

‘A‘Awm MW AAA“ AAAAAAA AW -“,
M’AAW AAAMAAM A‘» A AAAAAWAA
AAAAAAAA ”AAA: AAA AAAAAA mmzﬁiw 1
AMA. Ami? AA}? AAA AAA AWAA AAA 2;
Aim WM! AAAIAAAAA AAA AAAAWA»
A AMA: AAAAAAAAAA. A ‘AA AAALAAAAIAAAAAA AAA
AAAWAAAAA AAA AAAAMWAAAAAL AAAAAA
AAAAAA‘AAAAAAAAAA “"AA AAAMA A. 4
FAA? AMA AAA" “AAA 3‘. AAA 1

AAAA AAAA AAAA AAAAWAA AAAAAA
WWAAAW A»! WM AAA haw {W
”Alisha; MA A AAAA wiAmA'vLL‘L L',"‘
{AWAA’AMA’AAA AAA/Ami ‘ " L
AAAAAAI’IAAAAAA AAA AAA” " “
‘AA‘A‘AAAVAAA Aggy; {AMA AA
AAAAAAAAAAA AA FAA? AAA 4% AAA

WAAA‘A’AW’ AMA“. (Aft AWMAAA
AAAAAPA’ AAAMA AMAAA‘A‘A
AAA ' 4”

“WA AA». AAA . ,
AAA”. AAA AA AAA "AAAWAAAAA
A”! AA AA :AA MAW AA MAMA
”1337.? FAQ}? , AF
AAAAAA ”AA A A: AMA:

LAAT FAA

F) I p 39;) 3&3". L. 11“}:3
I .“L

 




 

 

lltlblilhod 1379 u THI won: Passe - J. Lyi.

 

WAYNE o. McMURRAY, Editor
ERNEST »_w. LASS, Publisher

18 Asbury Park, Tuesday, June 14, 1960

Animal Experimentation

A bill is pending in the House of
Representatives, HR 12587, and anOther
in the United States Senate, S 3750,
which would assure humane treatment
to laboratory animals. These are ani-
mals used for experimental purposes
in ‘science’s effort to ﬁnd cures for hu-
man disease.

Thesebills do not ban the use of
animal experimentation. They merely
seek to make it humane as, we assume,
every decent person would like to see
It. It must be recognized-that through
animal experimentation stupendous
discoveries have been made which/have
greatly improved man’s health and ex-
tended his longevity. It would be diffi-

. cult to rationalize the abolition of such
experimentation. It is equally difficult
to rationalize the continuation of such
experimentation without adequate as-
surance that cruelty will be outlawed.
The development of sound, healthy
bodies, andpthe c0nquest of disease are
goals worth‘striving for. The physical
growth of mankind is of compelling
importance, but it“ is no more impor-
tant "than his mental and moral de-
velopment. Physical hulks, with no
sense of right or wrong, or with no
thou ht for anything but their own
well- eing, would make a cruel sham-
bles of the world in a short time. It
is only as man develops a sense of. com-
passion for other living things that he
may be said to have emerged from the
brute stage. Kindness, to other living
thin s is a mark of civilization.
hus, the conclusion is obvious. If
man can further his battle for sur-
vival through animal experimentation
he can scarcely be condemned for em-
ploying it. But if he does not sur-
round that experimentation with every

safe-guard against needless suffering
he has fallen far short of the destiny

heHhas so confidently assigned him-
se .

AUBURN , N. Y.

CiTiZENuADvERTESER
D has:

'Unvvarran’fed Cruelty

Millions of a‘nimalsare used every year for scientific
experiments in themlab’o’ratovries of America. Countless hu-
man lives have been saved by the knowledge obtained from
these studies. ,

But those who rejoice in the miracle of modern mede ‘
ical science do so without awareness of the fact thatmany
animals used in the experimentation have suffered unneces-

ain in the rocess. ,
5313’ This is befause many research institutions do‘ not
make adequate provisions for the humane treatment of
animals. Some have caretakers who do not keep quarters
clean, sometimes through neglect .and sometimes because of
faulty drainage. Asa result, epidemics of Virus diseasesi
mange, fleas and worms sweep these unsanitary animad
quarters. Sick and healthy animals are not segregated; dea
animals are not promptly removed; lnCISlonS become in-
4 fected, and in many cases there is no post-operative care.
I Callous mishandling is widespread... For instance, at—
' tendants hose ‘down small cages without removm-g. the
dogs; sick dogs are drenched with cold water. Malnutrition
is seen widely; in certain cases, feeding and watering are so
irregular that animals have died of thirst. ‘ . .
Such negligence exists mostly because administrators1
' fail to appropriate sufficient funds and .space for gamma
quarters. The low pay for the post of animal caretaker re}-1
sults in a large turnover of unskilled labor. Many researc.‘
workers refuse to take responsibility for the care of their
animals, and do not accord even the most cursory super-
vision of caretakers. Others attempt to superVise but are un-1
able to get any cooperation from the kind of personne
they have to deal with. , ', . , .
This problem has led to. introduction of companion
bills by‘Rep. Griffiths (D-Mich), (.HR,12'587) and Sen.
Coopef"-‘(R—Ky), (S,3570) to require humane treatment
of experimental animals. This urgently needed legislation
merits support. But these mistreated dumb animals can-
not plead their own case. They need your help. Express
your yiews to your congressman and senators, ,-

ASB URY PARK EVENING PRESS

Klnmonth, Editor, 1895-1948

a. 1

End Laboratory

A' bill that would “protect animals
used in laboratories from unnecessary
suffering and mistreatment has been

introduced . in Congress. It would ac?

complish'in the field of eXperimentation
what, the humane slaughter law that

Was passed in 1958, after years of agita;

tifon, did in the meat-packing industry,
namely, the establishment of humane
standards.

The act would operate by’ requiring
humane treatment of animals on the
part of _ all institutions that receive
federal funds, and it would be admin-
istered by the secretary'of health, edu-
cation, and welfare.

This legislation is opposed by ex-
tremists on both sides—antiviVisection-
ists, who would have the use of animals

in scientific work prohibited entirely,

and irresponsible scientific interests,

 

.. 7—... wou—w— w—»_..._- .— .— i

COMMENT AND
June 20, 1960

_.,.,.,.._.....,.. ..,.,.,.,.,.....,.,.;,‘C v.40} ....... avg-N. mas-we - - ~ x". '0 - " '~‘ ' “ '-' ‘ ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ‘ ‘ '
n...._. _ oat-000190. a ."" ""v‘ .‘.... ..' H
53%.... z..-.-:-:-:~:.:-:-:o:.:-:-..:.:-:3:'-:~:-:-:-:~:-:~:-:.:-:-:-:-:.:-: as}:5;:::::;::::.:=:=:::=:=. a233- 2312;23:15': 53%;“ .

.

HE LOUISVILLE TIMES
a, BARRY BINGHAM, Editor-in-Chicf
MARK ETHRIDGE, Publisher
eeonee BURT, Editor
0

» Editorial Page Staff
a: JAMESC.HUTTO NORMAN L. JOHNSON

. .- . .-.v.
.~.$:.;.:.;.9
._. ....._.,:
'0 o l
... ..
9‘3
.-2'.‘.
. . .
. . ..
we
.
'.-.~.'
.-
. .

% ROlERT YORK

.

V

. TOM WALLACE, Editor

at a; lag-gs ...... 2 Wm r

 

This Humane
Bill Deserves
Passage

NE of today’s Letters to the Edi-

' tor asks support for Senator

JOHN SHERMAN COOPER’S Senate

Bill 3570, for the humane treatment

of laboratory animals. The bill has this

newspaper’s warm endorsement, as

has its companion, House Bill 12587,

introduced this month by Representa-
tive MARTHA GRIFFITHS of Michigan.

American laboratories use millions
of animals for scientific. experiments
each year. Knowledge. gained through
these experiments has saved count-
less human lives,.New areas of \med-
ical knowledge are still being pio-
neered through animal experiments.

The Cooper bill would set up a sys-
tem of licensing for all institutions
using animals in experiments con-
ducted for or financed by the govern-
ment. It would set up rules which
every licensee would follow under
penalty of lasing its license. The rules
are reasonable. They include for every
laboratory animal “a comfortable rest-
ing place, adequate space and facili-
ties for normal exercise, and adequate
sanitation, lighting, temperature con-
trol and ventilation. They provide for
“adequate food and water,” and pro-
hibit “unnecessary or avoidable pain
through neglect or mishandling.”

In brief, the licensing requirement
(to be administered through the De-
partment of Health, Education and
Welfare) would assure that all lab-
oratories engaging in government ex.-
perimentation or using federal grants
employ the same standards of human-e
treatment of laboratory animals that
some of them employ already.

STAR-NEWS
Thursday, May 26, I960

dena
EDITORIAL Pidgin. ’

A-sLu

 

Suffering

which do not want the bother and added
expense of humane treatment.

Reasonable people «seem agreed that
the use of animals in research is indis-
pensable, but there is no reason, other
than callous disregard of suffering, why
this work should be done. under the
execrable conditions that exist in many
experimentation centers today.

The proposed law would establish
procedures that have .been in effect
in Great Britain since 1876. These pro-
cedures have offered no impairmentto
scientific work, as evidenced by the
leading position of British biological
selence.

Some states, like California, have
legiSlation in this field, but court actions
pending in this state indicate that
federal control is desirable.

"“w

OPINION

WATERBURY, CONN.

AMERiCAN
0. 40,278

JUl‘i l 8 lS’BO
Animals In Research

Two companion measures, one intro-
duced in the. Senate and. the. other in ﬁne.

House, are aimed at preventing unnee-
essary cruelty to animals in research in-
stitutions receiving federal grants, and in
agencies of the U. S. Government.

The need for ani als in,mﬂcd and
scientific researcrﬁﬁ'ﬁdfy to be ques-
tioned. Muc - man misery and suffer-
ing has been alleviated because of exper-
iments performed on animals.

The two bills now in Congress are not
designed to hamper future medical re-
search along such lines, but they seek to
give the animals. “a break.” In other
words, to‘ provide» certain minimal stand-
ards to be followed in the handling of
experimental animals. '

Many research institutions presently
treat laboratory animals humanely, but
abuses have been found in many others.
Why. should not allresearch. institutions
beobliged to conform to the high stand-
ards set by leaders ‘both here and abroad?

It has been found in some places that
executives fail to, allot sufficient funds
and space for animal quarters. The post
of animal caretaker is all too frequently
poorly paid, with a resultant 'rapid turn-
over of persOnnel. Very often-untrained
and inefficient (or indifferent). workers
are assigned to these jobs. Lack of space,
lack of a proper resting place and poor
ventilation and temperature control have
been frequently noted in some eXperi-
mental laboratories.

There also have been reported in-
stances where insufficient anesthesia has
been used; cases where animals have not
been put out .of their misery after painful
eXperiments, but left to die.

The Cooper Bill in the Senate and the
Griffiths Bill in the House would require
the establishment of definite standards
for the housing and handling of animals
in any scientific endeavor supported by
federal funds;_would require periodic in.
spection and similar standards for U. S.
GoVei-nment laboratories as well.

This is humane 1e islation comparabl
to laws whi'c‘ﬁ' Have Been in effect in Eng
land for nearly 100 years. It deserve
congressional support and prompt action

    
   
 
 

 

 

 

 




it”)? ‘ (503111.131. ~ﬂuut'ttétl‘ mama Page Start:

ARK ETHRmGE, Publisher. BARRY BINGHAM, Editor-in-Chief.

Bergen (Tl. :l. ) WIWTTNG Till-7330339
’ ' June 20, 1960

In Justice
To A Servant

As has been demonsrrated by the suppres-
sion in the New. Jersey Assembly of a bill
directing that the slaughter of meat animals
be made as humane as possible, there are, two
sides of every question. And we shall be

    
  

 

‘ f, I
WW TEIBUNE

 

w x.”

/

 

, ' ’

 

 
 

'hearing from both sides about a bill (S.-3570l '

MONDAY, ME 20, 1960

 

of Senator COOper’s (R., Ky.) whose purpose
is to provide for the~humane treatment Of
animals used in research by the recipients of, "
grants from the United States Government.
or its instrumentalities. The measure will
exasperate people who oppose all vivisection .
and diligently. choose to deny any relation-
ship betWeen animal vivisection and the cen-
tury’s, massive break-throughs in surgical
’ technique and chemotherapy. It will also
exasperate people who deem the animal 1r-
‘ relevant to human welfare and 'who will con-
Sider the bill’s federal licensing. and inspec-
tion "requirements- another specimen of
bureaucratic meddling. The bill dictates that
"animals be given a comfortable‘resting place,
adequate facilities “for normal exercise, ade-
quate light and heat and food and water,
and a surcease from‘pain through neglect or
mishandling, plus merciful dispatch when
their own merciful work is done; It may be
said that researchers should guarantee these
things without having to be told. It would
have to be replied that not alWays do they do
so; The bill would put into words our guar-
antee to living creatures that when in neces-
sary woe they serve us they will not be com-
pensated with cruelty. Great Britain adopted
such legislation a century ago at the instance
of such distinguished scientists and humans
as Darwin, Huxley, and William Jenner. It is
time we see that a clear line is drawn be-
tween two humiliating extremes.

 
 
  

the case.

 

 

 

 

Something CAN Be Done

Most persons accept the idea and ractice'of science’s
using animals for} ex eriments that u timately may save
many human lives. T ere isn’t much to do but accept it-e-
there’s nothing much that can bedone about it. ‘ t

But everyone would feel better about the practice if
he or she could know that the animals so used are treated
humanely both while awaiting their turn to aid humanity
and during the experiments. Unhappily, this isnotlalways

. It will be, however, if Congress passes legislation
offered by Sen. John Sherman COOper of Kentucky and
Rep. Martha Griffiths of lMichigan. The bills Would
license laboratories with which the federal government
has" any connection—this, by .the way, would cover a
majority of the animals—and require the labs to maintain
standards. These include for every animal clean housing
Of adequate size and no overcrowding, adequate food and
water, a ban against unnecessary pain, including anaes-
thesia except to the extent that it might frustrate the
purpose of the experiment.

This is not an extreme
is being fought by extremists of two kinds—the anti-
v1visectlonists who want no recognition Of the use Of ani--
mals because they are against it, and those who do not
want to take the trouble to care for the animals.

So it becomes no longer true that nothing much can
be done by the individual, who now can write his repre—
sentatives to add his weight to that of many seeking
passage of this humane legislation.

bill. It is most reasonable. It

 

The Town Crier

INDEPENDENT IN ALL THINGS, NEUTRAL IN NOTHING

’aiestport, Conn.-
June 23, 19.

 

TRENTON, N. J.

TIMES
0. 54,934

it; 5.- 12 1950

Humane Experiments

Millions of animals are used every year for sci-
entific experiments in the laboratories of America.
These experiments have been responsible for many
of the dramatic break-throughs in surgery which
have extended man’s life span. The necessity and
the validity Of these experiments hardly can be
questioned.

The least man can do in return for the invaluable

contribution animals have made to this notable pro- I

gress is to set standards which insure that none of
these animals suffer needlessly, and that they re-
ceive humane care in decent surroundings.

Nearly a century ago, in response to a petition
to the government signed by Charles DarWin,
Thomas Huxley, Edward, Jenner and many other
distinguished scientists, Great Britain adopted leg-
islation to— prevent the infliction of needless suffer-
ing upon animals used in laboratories for research
purposes.

The United States is lagging in this field Of hu-
mane legislation just as it is lagging in adequate
laws to restrain current barbarities in the slaughter
of animals for food. Now such legislation is offered
by Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky,
with Senator Harrison Williams J r., of New Jersey
as co—sponsor.

Americans want vital scientific experiments to
continue. But they do not want the benefits to hu-
man beings tO be at the expense of the agonies of
dumb animals.

 

Less Unnecessary Cruelty

The Town Crier isindebted to one of its readers
for letting us know about a bill nOWIin Congress
providing for “the humane treatment Of animals
used for research.” It is the kind Of legislation that
will displease extremists on bOth sides of the anti—
vivisection argument, but it is the ﬁrst really sen—
sible proposal we’ve ever heard in this area.

All of us know that millions of animals are used
every year for scientific experiments -- and~ that
thousands of human lives have been saved by the
knowledge gained in these laboratories. This incon-~.
testablefact keeps sensible people out of theanti—
vivisectionist ranks, n’O Amatter' how,opposed they
are to cruelty to animals, dumb or otherwise.

. This new bill, hoWever, introduced by Kentucky

\Senator john Sherman Cooper and eleven of his

colleagues (S3570), establishes rules to protect labor—
atory animals. These provide ‘for every laboratory
animal “a comfortable resting place, adequate space
and facilities for normal exercise, and adequate sani-
tation, lighting, temperature control, and ventila-
tion. Adequate fOod and water” must be ,provided
and “unnecessary or‘ avoidable pain through neglect
or mishandling” is banded. In a seetion that typiﬁes
the practical and moderate tone Of the bill, it re—
quires the use Of anesthesia to prevent pain “during
and after the experiment, except to the extent that
the use of anesthetics would frustrate the Object of
the experiment.” I

The Cooper, Bill, which would ext.end.,only- to
animals used by recipients of US. Government
grants but whose inﬂuencewould'be wider, strikes
such a sensible balancebetween the needs of medi-
cal research and the demands of humane treatment
that it will Very likely come under violent attack
from both extremes. alt is incumbent upon the mil—
lions of Americans who want'scienti‘ﬁc- experiments
to continue with a minimum Of unnecessary cruelty,
.to raise their voices for this intelligent piece Of. legis—
lation. '

RUSSELL BRINEY, Editor.
ADELE BRANDEIS,
.. WELDON JAMEs,
SATURDAY, JULY 2', .1960. FOUNDED 1826. '

MOLLY ‘CLOWEs, HUGH HAYNIE,

JOHN En PEARCE.

Cooper Bill .-
Sustains Attack
From Both Sides

R. MALCOLM STANLEY of the Univer-
sity of Louisville Medical School has
raised some objections to Senate Bill
3570 in a letter to one of its sponsors, Senator
JOHN SHERMAN COOPER. This is a bill for “hu-
mane treatment of animals used for. re-
search” The medical Council of the U. of L.
school has voiced similar objections.
, Dr. STANLEY points out that living condi-
tions foranmals in the new medical-dental re-
search bulding in Louisville will more than
satisfy the requirements of the proposed act.
That is a happy fact. Treatment of laboratory
animals is already good here, thanks to the
humane impulses of researchers, and thanks
to the vigilance of dedicated Humane Society
workers. But wouldn’t it seem reasonable to
support a measure which would ensure in
other laboratories the high standards that pre-
vail here? '

Did He Read The Bill?

On a couple of other points it appears that
Dr. STANLEY has not read the bill very care-
fully. He holds that useful experimentation
would be thwarted by a provision that all ani-
mals must be fully anaesthetized under sur-
gery, and must be painlessly destroyed before
regaining consciousness. But the bill would re-
quire such procedures only for students in
practice surgery. , ' _

For EXperienced researchers, 8.8. 3570
offers two carefully-drawn exceptions. "One
is that all animals under surgery must be
completely anaesthetized “except to the ex-
tent that the use of anaesthetics would frus-
trate the object of the experiment.” The other _
is that the animals must be killed without
regaining consciousness “unless the project
plan filed with the Secretary of Health, Edu- ,

cation and Welfare specifies a longer period
during which animals must be kept alive-for
essential purposes of the experiment or test.”

The Louisville medical spokesman objects

that the COOPER Bill would cover only animals
used in laboratories which receive ’ federal
grants for experimentation. But this is a large
majority of all laboratory animals used each
year, and these are the only animals which
can be reached by federal regulation. It is not
very persuasive to argue that a majority of
animals should not be protected from needless
pain because all of them cannot be given pro-
tection. .

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

Kindness Consistent With Science

Dr. STANLEY is under the false impression
that the bill is being pushed by anti-vivisec-
tlonists. Those who oppose all vivisection on.
moral grounds, a small but highly vocal group,
have “loudly attacked SB. 3570. Several have
written letters to this paper.. The bill was
drawn up by people who believe that labora-
tory experiments On animals are valuable for
saving human life, but who hold at the same
time that the animals whose lives are sacri-
ficed for the good of mankind should be
treated with all the kindness consistent. with
the absolute needs of. science.

The COOPER Bill is a moderate measure.
Its character is indicated by. the fact that it
is being assailed, on one side by the anti-
vivisectionists, and on the other by some med- .
ical practitioners who would rather not be
bothered with its admittedly somewhat
troublesOme provisions. The largest opposition
bf all probably comes from a third group—
people who have not read the bill, but who
have been told that it Would handicap useful
experimentation in ways the bill’s framers
were careful to avoid.




 

"‘54-”

The

SA C 7A" WET O

(callr.) BEE

The uoonsvo (calir.) are
The aarsno (Califl) has, June 30,:60

The Debt is Great

Throughout man’s restless’
”search for cures against crip-'
pli'ng and. killing diseases he,
has turned to the lower ani-
. mals for experimentation.
'And considering the, vast
numbers sacrificed in the
name of science for this good
cause, man’s deb-t to the ex-
perimental animal becomes
as obvious as it is immense.

If for no other reason, this
is cause enough for strong
support of legislation intro-
duced in the United States
Senate by Senator John Sher-
man Cooper of Kentucky and

 

12 colleagues aimed at ‘assur- '

ing all experimental animals
humane treatment ,

The legislation would es-
tablish federal controls over
the licensing of laboratories
which use animals for experi-
mentation and would set up
regulations which would re-
quire comfortable facilities
and adequate sanitation,
lighting, temperature and
ventilation controls for ani-
mal care.

 

This interest in the lowly
experimental animal is not
new.

Almost a century ago
Great Britain adopted legisla-
- tion designed to prevent the
infliction of needless suffer-
ing upOn creatures used in
laboratories for research.

 

 

And the matter was of
enough moment, to attract
the attention of such giants
as Charles Darwin, Thomas

 

 

Til“? PROSRT‘ISS-INDTBX

Petersburg, Va., June 20g
, laboratories. Manhas benefited greatly from medical

_ Cooper Bill
Is Desirable ,

The Cooper bill, now before
Congress, would guarantee proper
care and humane treatment of
laboratory animals used in expen-
ments on new drugs and treat-v
ments that eventually will beneﬁt
huma’nsf’lt has mUch merit. and
should receive support."Th1s sup-
port can best be expressed by
writing to. representatives and
senators and urging its passage.

Anyone who has dealt with
animals must have learned that
while they are “dumb”, 1n, the
sense that. they cannot talk, they
are far from dumb in‘ex’presslon.
Who has not seen the changing
expression on the face of a dog;
and who has not sensed that. this
friend of man does experience
emotions?

. No one who has studied animals
Ikcan escape the realization that
a they face problems much like
‘ human beings and react in strik-

.‘
. I ‘ -
u‘ -.
. a

, / enhancement

Published at .235 Broad "sheet, Hartford 11, Connecticut . ' Wednesday Morning, June 15, 1960
,Es’tablisllud ‘ .1764, - The“ .011“! ‘Newspaper of Continuous 'Publicah'on in America ‘

H umane“ Treatment .
0f Animals-in Research
~l Bills have Seen introduced in both houses of“ Con

,g'ress to set standards ier— the treatment of animals it.

research in which animals were used in testing new
drugs and techniques. Those who oppose the sacrifice
of animals in "such experiments appear. to think more
of them than of people. Their feelings for their pets

, have carried them beyond common sense. The protec-

tion of animals will: not be advanced by sentinientality.

3 But it will be. furthered " .byﬁ'such measures as those

now in Congress They- are based on experience and
contain safeguards for both animals and scientists
The reason for j the proposed federal law is

. that animals are- sometimes mistreated through care-

lessness or ignorance." unnecessary cruelty has no con-
nectiOn with legitimate 'mediCal‘ research. Some ani-
mals must suffer in order to. save human beings. but
the work should belimit‘ed by the demands 0f" useful
experiments. Needless pain .shOuld not be inflicted
when there is no possibility of increasing medical
knowledge. This can be' done by setting, standards for
laboratory care. Recipients of grants from govern-
ment agencies would be required under the proposed
law to meet conditions setup by the Federal Govern-
ment. . " - . , .
Experience in Great Britain shows that animal ex-
periments can be regulated by scientists. Avoidable

pain is not inﬂicted in the laboratory. Experiments
inVolving suffering are not used for teaching'purposes.

Painful experiments are not repeated, once the .re-

sults have been validated. And animal experiments
are only carriedout in properly equipped laboratories.
These principles have been so well enforced that since
the British legislation was passed in 1876 there has
never been a prosecution under the law, ‘- i
_ The bill introduced by Senator Cooper in the Sen-
ate would direct the Department of Health, "Education
and Welfare to set up a licensing system. Researchers
workingwith federal grants Would have to comply with
regulations for the care and comfort of the animals.
Adequate food and water, sanitation and ventilation
would be required. The bill also calls for the use of
anesthesia to prevent pain where possible.~ Large in-
stitutions already follow this policy as a matter of
course but a few smaller laboratories have been
negligent. Unnecessary suffering in unimportant medi-
cal research would be prevented by the adoption of
a federal law. ' .

 

Gilli lllarn Nina-Erihunr

Huxley, Edward Jenner and : ingly human ways.

 

 

 

 

others. r, . . .
Surely this is legislation If they are to be seized and Page 6—Waco,Texos - SoturdctyJunell, 1960
WhiCh Should receive a do “Edi“ ﬂde lturtherancelpf malt; 7H. M. FENTRESS .............. E ..... {j ....{,...I$.lf3)tl"ehs[idgnt
pass recommendation Out of ~ health an appmes‘S, en .PAT TAGGART ............ xecu ve . _ . _ Is at
committee, and be quiCkly \ deserve man’s best care. Many an lslAgRgOglEusiX/ENCE ...... ,....,......:::::é.e.£n‘iatlorﬁn}t;ln§t-
voted. , . animal here has paved the way . _. .'.°. ............ . ......... . _ .

for the Cure of a human disease.

 

It is a sad commentary on man’s
attitudes that. laws are needed to

assure humane care, but passage
of such laws certamly cannot do
any harm.

Kindness ‘. to Laboratory
Animalsls Their Tar get

It may come as a surprise to most non-scientists
to learn that thereappears to be widespread and
cruel neglect or mistreatment of the animals used
for laboratory experiments. At least there is enough
of this. abuse to generate the forces of the Society
for-Animal Protective Legislation into action again.
The scolety has persuaded U. S. Senator John Sher-
man COOper and 7.11 of his colleagues to sponsor a -
bill called S. 3570 which wOuld set standards for
treatment of laboratory animals in all centers "re-‘
.ce1v1ng federal research funds. Thisﬂwo‘uld cover
nearly all reputable laboratories.

Therequirements‘ in S. 3570 include for every
laboratory animal. “a comfortable resting place,
adequate space and facilities for normal exercise, and
adequate sanitation, lighting, temperature control
and ventilation”; adequate food and water; a. ban
on unnecessary 0r unavOidable-pain through neglect
or mishandling. A s'ection-of'the bill specifies use of
anesthesia, on animals to prevent pain “during and
after the experiment, except to the extent that the
use of anesthetics would frustrate the object of the
experiment.” ‘

, The whole tone. of the bill is one. of praCtical and
moderate kindness. Chief reported opposition comes
from the two extreme viewpoints on the use of lab-
oratory animals . . the anti-vivisectionists don’t
want any legal recognition of animal eXperiments

WTHE PONTIAC PRESS

48 West HurOn Street Pontiac, Michigan

 

 

 

FRIDAY, JUNE 24, 1960
“These are the purposes of a bill
introduced by SenatOr Cooper: of
Kentucky and 12 other members of
the Senate, and wewould like to add
our voiCe to the. support it has re-
ceived from numerous national or-
ganizations. Basically, the bill would
direct the Department of Health,
Education and Welfare to set up a
licensing system for any animal ex-
perimentation employed by the re-
cipients of Federal grants. In order
to be so licensed, researchers would
be required to comply with specific
V conditions, primarily concerning the
care and comfort of the .anirnals. For
the most- part, the larger research in-

Show Experimental
Animals Kmdncss .

The use of animals in experimental
laboratory work has long since :be-
come an established and valuable
practice. The benefit to the-human
race is probably incalculable. And
yet the animals deserve the“ maxi-
mum protection. under humane pro-'
cedures. , . .

In commenting 'on this situation,

the, Washington Star recently said:

“Nearly all the dramatic
breakthroughs in surgery and

chemotherapy which have ex.
tended ,. man’s life Span in recent»

years have relied in some" measure

0n animal experimentatioh. Al}
though thousands of laboratory-
animals have been sacrificed in;

the course of this research, no one
can seriously contest its‘value and
desirability. The least mancan do
in return, however, is to set stan-
dards which insure that none of
these dumb animalssuffer need-

. lessly, and that they receive
- . humane care amid decent sur-
roundings.

***

stltutions already take adequate pre-,

cautions, but the " limited instances

or appalling cruelty which have been.
disclosed justify governmental ac-

tion. .
* . ﬁr air

"‘As to detailed ,rovisions of
the bill, Secretary ‘F 'emming is in
' the best position to comment, and
his advice should be considered
carefully. In general, ' however,
the spirit of . the Caliper-"bill steers
a sensible middle course between
the extremes of those who would
avoid any, scrutiny of their ex-
perimentation and thou who
would abolish entirely. the use of
animals in laboratories to save
human lives.”
”In”

 

.sincettheir dream isto forbid them in all forms' . . .
and the persons who regard any extra labor or. ex-
‘pense on behalf of laboratory animals as a waste of
money think the bill is nonsense. Nevertheless, the
Somety for Animal Protective LegislatiOn pushes for-
ward, fortified inthe knowledge that its persistence
and persuasiveness once before accomplished the
seemingly impossible in securing passage of the Hu-
mane SlaughteringgAct. ' ‘ ‘ " '
. As the Louisville Courier-Journal put it the other
day, “Men owe justice to the animals who save lives.
.' . . Those who rejoice in themiracle of modern sci-
ence couldedo so with a truly full heart if they could

‘be assured that the animals used for experimentation
have not suffered unneeded pain in the process. . . .

Surely there are. millions of Americans who want
scientific experiments to continue, but who also want

. to feelthat human beings 1 are not benefiting by the

unnecessary agony of dumb animals. They will need
to speckloudly and, publicly. . .~ .” - ‘ ?

f- It, Will-be at? miracle i’fg-the' bill gets'through the
1960' Congressman traffic jam, but the society has

~. pulled Off miracles before'and with enough! encour-
agement from the people, may do it again.

 




 

Almost‘all of the dramatic develop-
' ments in surgery and medicine in re-
cent years have been made possible
tbecause of experiments conducted on
animals in laboratories. : '

Few people would want that work to
‘fcease, and therefore theantivivisection-
.ists. who propose that the law prohiﬁt
'the use of live animals "in laboratory
experiments have been unable to con-
vince the majority of the American
people, despite the fact that they have
used in their campaigns pictures and
stories meant to persuade Americans
to support such a proposal. _

Those who do not agree with the
antivivisectionists that all such ex-
periments should be banned neverthe-
less would favor some legislation which
would protect the animals against suf-

  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
    
  

out adversely affecting the research
program. .

In almost all cases, experiments
would not be damaged if the animals
were kept in clean, well-ventilated
facilities, were given anesthesia during,
experiments, and were quickly executed
at the termination of necessary experi-
ments which would eventually .result
in death. ,

In most laboratories, these humane
conditions are enforced as a matter of
practice. However, there are some
facilities where budgetary or manpower
limitations have. permitted these basic
rules to be disregarded. These labora-
tories not only discredit the profession,
but also provide the material which

PAY A DEBT WITH KINDNESS

past and will save many in the

,and better life.

Cooper bill now before Congress.

food and water.

should be passed.

Section K, Page 2

. J une 515331.960"

’ Justice to Animals

. fGl‘ing which could be eliminated with:

Because of the boon these animals make possible
for mankind the least that can be done is to make certain
they do not suffer needless pain, This is the goal of the!

These are minor considerations in return for whatl
these experiments mean to humanity. The bill makes no
attempt to.curtail either scope or number of experiments
which are so productive of blessings to mankind. This is ,A
an effort to strike a balance between the needs of science
and the demands of humane treatment. The Cooper bill:

L?

~~, gfield (Masai) Daily News

can be used effectly by the antivivise’c-
tionists to hamper all reSearch. I

Now befOre Congress is a bill which
would prOtect the animalf without
denying to human beings the benefits
derived from animal L experiments. In
the Senate, the bill bears the name of
U.~ S. Sen. John Sherman Cooper
(R-Ky.), one of a dozen senators to pre-
sent -' the proposals. In the House, a
companion bill has been presented by
U.. S. Rep. Martha Griffiths(D-Mich.).

Under the legislation, no federal re-
search grant would given to any

organization unless it .“submitted a

prOject plan, received a certificate of,

compliance from the Department of

Health, Education and Welfare, and
. kept? its laboratories open ”at all times

to inspectors from ,that department.
The department would require that any
laboratory getting federal assistance
make certain that anirrials are given
adequate care and housing, and are not
subjected to unnecessary pain and
fear. These same regulations would
apply to all federal laboratories.

Because almost all medical schools
and research institutions now receive
federal medical research grants, this
legislation would protect the great ma-
jority of animals used in research, and
enforcement would beiin the hands that
control the pursestrings for such re-
search .

This measure would protect the ani-
mals, and it wOuldprotect human be-
ings against misdirected campaigns
which might result in the termination

of these lite-saving experiments.

rhe Troy (n.r.) Times Record
Inna 5, 1950

Research la=b0ratories of America use many animals,
for experiments which have saved countless lives in the‘

years ahead. These

animals are sacriﬁced to test drugs and new medical
treatment methods so that humanity may have a longer

 

l

The bill requires that laboratories keep a record ofI
each experiment and provide proper treatment of animals,‘
including a comfortable resting place, adequate space tori
exercise, proper sanitation and ventilation, and sufficient!

l

 

THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER

Friday, May 27, 1960

KENTUCKY EDITION

 

position is hard to find .
heart or mind . .
felt praise .

fering on every side .
the tide . .-
deeds .

voiceless one .
you’ve done!”

-——_—

T

 

' 3' ’ ’ R ’
’ lme II eason
By ALICE KENNELLY ROBERTS .

THANKS TO SEN. JOHN SHERMAN COOPER
( For introducing Senate Bill 3570, to provide
humane treatment [or laboratory animals)

There is fame for the man with the popular bill . . . '
And praise for expressing the country’s will . . . His ,op- '
. . And never a challenge to
. But the fellow who merits our heart-
. . Is the man with courage for troubled days
. . . Who knows his science; is well informed . . . Believes
that research must be performed . . . Yet sees the sul-
. . And uses hisstrength to stem
. For the name of “research” cloaks many
. . . Of which no medical lab has needs
drawn-out suffering which shouldn’t be .
which goes on needlessly . . . So we speak for many a

. . When we say, “God bless you for what ,

. . . Long
. . And torture

 

l
l

 

.‘x’ﬁ

b ._ Fort Wayne_News-Sentinel, June 17,1960.

It was almost a century ago, as the
sequel to a .petition to the government,
signed by Charles Darwrn, Thomas
Huxley, Edward Jenner, 511‘ Richard
Owen, the President of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons, the President of the
Royal College of Physiciansnand other
leaders of Science and medicine, that
Great Britain adopted legislation .to
prevent infliction of needless suffering
upon animals used in laboratories for
research purposes. _

Somewhat belatedly the United States

is now getting around toward emulating

the British with similar salutary legis-
lation. . 'To this end, Republican Senator
John Sherman Cooper of' Kentucky and
12 'other Senators, have introduced a
bill providing for the humane treat-

ment of laboratory animals. And Demo—

cratic Congresswoman Martha Griffiths
ngichigan, has sponsored a companion
ill.

Basically, the Cooper Bill would
direct the Department of Health, Edu-
cation and Welfare to set up a licensing
system for animal experimentation,
under which researchers would be re-
quired to comply with specific condi-
tions, primarily concerning the care and
comfort of animals. For the most part,
and to their credit, the larger research
institutions already take adequate pre-
cautions, but the relatively few in-
stances of appalling needless cruelty,
which have been disclosed, justify gov-
ernmental action. ‘

In general, the Cooper bill salutarily
steers a sensible middle course between
the extremes of those who would pre-
vent any scrutiny of their experimenta-
tion, and those who would abolish en-
tirely the use of animals in laboratories
to save human lives. It would follow
generally the British Law which was
enacted in 1876 with the recommenda-
tions of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science and the British
Medical Association. The consensus of
this provides that no avoidable pain
should be inflicted in the laboratory,
that experiments involving suffering
should not be used for teaching pur-
poses, that painful experiments should

not. be repeated once the results had
been validated, and that such experi-

ments only be conducted in properly
equipped laboratories.

The British law differs in that it is
a criminal statute. However, since 1876

The Asheville Citizen

Experiments An

‘ Humane Laboratory Animals Bill

there has never been a prosecution
under the act, due to the continued
whole-hearted co—operation of the Brit.
ish scientific community. _

The proposed Cooper-Griffiths Sta.
tute would not hamper responsible re-
search. any more than the British lab-
oratory animal law has. Indeed a, hu-
mane policy in the use of animals, the
maintenance of proper. animal quarters
and care, and the keeping of accurate
records making , the results of past
animal experimentation generally avail-
able to the professions, are all habitual
to conscientious scientists. Dramatic
proof that such sensible mandatory hu-
mane‘ treatment of laboratory animals
does not hamper responsible research
is the. fact that under such regulation
BritiSh research is in the front rank——
from the development of vaccination
against smallpox, to the discovery of
penicillin.» ' Under it, British biologists
have been able to contributefar more
than. their share to the world’s life-
saving research discoveries. Indeed 10
Nobel prizes for Physiology and Medi-
cine awarded British research workers
attest the scope and quality of British
research under the humane laboratory
animals act. We heartily concur in the
sentiment expressed by the Louisville
Courier-Journal that:

“Millions of animals are used every
year for scientific experiments in the
laboratories of America. Countless hu-
man lives have been saved by the
knowledge gleaned from these adven-
tures. Surely there are millions of
Americans who want scientific experi-
ments to continue, but who also want
to feel that human beings are not bene-
fitting by the unnecessary agony of
dumb animals. Those who rejbice in
the miracle of modern science could do
so with a truly full heart if they could
be assured that animals used for ex-
perimentation have not suffered un~
needed pain. No such assurance has
been possible. up to the present. Now
it is offered, in large degree, if Con-
gress can be persuaded to pass the
Cooper Bill.”

Surely the least we all can do to pay
our great debt to those who share with
us the mystery of life in the animal
kingdom, and do so much to prolong our
lives, is to write our representatives in
Congress urging them to assure simple
justice in their behalf.

History tells us that every

great advance in freedom has
been/paid for in the blood of
patriots.

In a somewhat similar way,
it can be said that most of
the expansion of knowledge
in surgery and the medical
use of chemical elements has
been based upon animal ex-
perimentat‘ion.

Suffering and death are
often the inevitable sacrifices

demanded of these friendly.

creatures who share with man-
kind the transcendent gift of
life.

Knowledge thus g a i n e d
justifies. the hard exactions.
Yet because it is documented
and indisputable fact that oe-

casionally laboratory animals 7

are - treated carelessly, inhu-

manely and even with stark '

cruelty, two’ bills. calling for
government action are now
before Congress. _

Senator Cooper of Kentucky
and 172' other Senators are
sponsors of Senate -Bﬂ'l 3570.
Rep. Martha Griffiths intror
uduced a companion bill in
the House.

Contrary to the mistaken
protests of the National So-

6 2 60 (N. c .)
uses
ciety for Medical Research,

theSe bills-have been care-
fully drawn With this purpose
well. stated in »a,spee(:h by
Senator Ptoxmire or Wiscon-
sin: to “preserve the neces-
sary and useful aspects of ani-
mal experimentation while
preventing-the abuses.” I

Senator- Proxmire“ seems to

have doubts about the nec‘es-‘
sity “of burning live pigs to
death in gasoline ﬂames, pur-
portedly to study the causes
of human death by fire, ,. .”
, The '4 larger centers of labo-
ratory experiments have good
records of proper housing and
feeding 0f the 7 animals. In
these institutions » anesthetics
are employed in experiments
whenever possible.

But the known instances of
neglect and callous treatment
warrant the re quirements
now proposed for persons or
agencies r e ce i ving Federal
grants for animal experimen-

tation.

A message to your official
spokesman in Congress might
help to save these bills from
being over‘lookedlin the rush .-
for' adjournment of Congress. '

 

 

' t.
g“

n"

 




