“LAWS Monographs and Reports No. 4F.

SOME FACTS AND QUERIES RELATING
TO THE WILD-RABBIT PROBLEM

By Capt. C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc., F.Z.S.
‘ Hon. Secretary of ULAWS

A paper read before the

'" CONFERENCE OF CORRESPONDING socaETtEs

of the

BRITISH ASSOClATlON FOR THE
~ ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE

r

6 September. I 937

 

ULAWS

(The University of London Animal Welfare Society)
42 Torrington Square. London, W.C.l

 




 

ULAWS MONOGRAPHS AND REPORTS ON THE
CONTROL OF RABBITS AND RATS

4A.—~—T HE RABBIT PROBLEM IN AGRICULTURE (revised to September
16, 1934; gratis) by Capt. W. H. Buckley, M.F.H.

4B.-—-——MAN VERSUS RABBIT (ﬁrst edition May, 1932; second edition,

November 5, 1934, revised to February 5, 1935 : Is.) by A. H. B.
Kirkman, F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P., Lond., F.Z.S.

4C.-REPORT ON A SOLUTION OF THE RABBIT PROBLEM : CYANIDE FUMI-
GATION (April, 1935: gratis) by Capt. W. H. Buckley, M.F.H.

4D.—-THE RABBIT MENACE IN AUSTRALIA IN 1933 AND THE WAY OUT
(Sydney, 1932, reprinted by ULAWS August, 1935: gratis) by
David G. Stead, formerly Special Rabbit-Menace Commissioner
to the Government of New South Wales.

4E.~—INSTRUCTIONS FOR DEALING WITH RABBITS (Second edition, Sep-
tember, 1937: gratis) compiled by Capt. C. W. Hume, M.C.,
B.Sc., F.Z.S., with a foreword by Prof. Sir Frederick T. G. Hobday,
C.M.G., F.R.C.V.S., F.R.S.E., Dr. Med. Vet. (Zurich).

4F.-—~SOME FACTS AND QUERIES RELATING TO THE WILD-RABBIT PROBLEM
IN BRITAIN (1937 : gratis). A paper read at the Nottingham
meeting Of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
by the Hon. Secretary of ULAWS.

7B.-——-RAT—CONTROL (October, 1936: gratis) by J. D. Hamer, F.I.C.,
Consultant Chemist to the Orient Line.

MEMORANDUM PRESENTED BY ULAWS to the Select Committee on
Agriculture (Damage by Rabbits) with selected précis of evidence

(1936: 15.).

THE RABBIT PROBLEM IN AUSTRALIA by David G. Stead (1935: 2s. net,
post free 25. 2d.).

A full list of publications will be sent on applicatimz.

 

 

‘x— _ _ a A A .

 

 




‘_-;;:.2; :32»; L&me»;—‘ht 135‘ .4

1; L’S.‘

SOME FACTS AND QUERIES RELATING
TO THE WILD-RABBIT PROBLEM

BY Capt. C- W. HUME. M.C.. B.SC., F.Z.S., Hon. Secretary of ULAWS
(The University of 'London Animal Welfare Society)

A paper read before the
CONFERENCE OF CORRESPONDING SOCIETIES
of the

BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE
6 SEPTEMBER, I937

§1. The controversial nature of the problem.

The rapid multiplication of rabbits in recent years has brought
into prominence the serious problem which this animal offers to the
forester and the farmer. A Select Committee of the House of Lords
recently considered the subject, but its report”) formulated a policy
based on compromise between conﬂicting opinions and interests and
can scarcely be regarded as authoritative on questions of ecological
fact. ‘ . The object of the present paper is to record some of the facts
that have been deﬁnitely ascertained, and to outline some questions
of a controversial nature which need to be set at rest by means of
scientiﬁc investigation.

Conﬂicting interests. The task of ascertaining the facts is
complicated by the controversial nature of the problem, and it may
therefore be well to mention the four principal interests concerned,
in order that due allowance may be made for bias. (i) For the
forester and successful farmer the rabbit is a pest which does damage
that far outweighs its market value. (ii) On the other hand, the
rabbit is a marketable product and considerable money interests
are concerned in the commercial exploitation of the animal.
\(iii) Humanitarians are concerned to eliminate the rabbit-trapping
industry on account of its cruelty, to promote the use of cyanide
fumigation and other humane methods of keeping down rabbits,
and eventually to prohibit the gin trap from being used for any
purpose. (iv) Sportsmen are divided, but some are opposed to
cyanide fumigation from a fear that it may be used for killing foxes(2),
or wish to retain the gin trap partly for game-preservation and
partly because gamekeepers make a proﬁt by trapping rabbits.

Agriculture versus rabbit-exploitation. There is a sharp, and I
believe irreconcilable, conﬂict of interest between (i) agriculture and

1

 




 

(ii) the rabbit-trapping industry. Attempts to reconcile these
interests have been made. It has been suggested that rabbits should
be trapped down early in the autumn, but since the breeding season
extends from February or March till June or July, the maximum
population occurs at harvest time. Thus the rabbits caught in
autumn have been feeding all through the months that are critical
for the cereal farmer. In actual practice it is found that in the
counties where commercial rabbit-trapping is most extensively
practised, rabbits have become most numerous and destructive.
It has also been suggested that a rise in the price of rabbits and
skins would lead to. increased trapping and reduction of numbers
(though it has not been suggested that a rise in the price of mutton
would lead to the extermination of the sheep). Actually ﬁgure 3
shows that the fall. in prices has accompanied an enormous increase
in the harvest of rabbits.

It has further been suggested that rabbits might be tolerated on
poor land but eradicated from rich land. Unfortunately the)»r
inevitably stray to the richer land unless they have been elaborately
wired in. Inadequate fencing is useless, and adequate fencing is so
costly that few warreners would be willing to maintain it. More-
over, rabbits off poor land are of poor quality, and modern methods
of pasture-improvement(3) should make it more proﬁtable to farm
sheep than to farm rabbits.

In practice, most farmers at the present moment would like to
get rid of their rabbits, but have neighbours who do not wish to do
so. A trapper-dealer in a badly infested county is known to have
made a contract to supply 4 tons of rabbits per week to a Northern
market, and to have bought live does at 461. each which he turned
down on the land that he is to trap in the autumn. Prosecutions
for stealing rabbits are frequent.

However, the solution of the problem need not necessarily lie in
the total extermination of the rabbit. Probably it would be
sufﬁcient if the balance of nature were restored to a point where the
rabbit-density fell to l or 2 per acre. The rabbit would then become
once more a pleasing element in the fauna of the countryside, but
not an object of wholesale commercial exploitation or a pest.

The gin-imp controversy. The conﬂict of interest between
agriculture and the rabbit-trapping industry has been used by
ULAWS (quite legitimately, I think) as a weapon with which to
strike for the abolition of the gin trap. On the other hand, those
who wish to retain the gin trap for various reasons have represented
it as indispensable not only for the commercial exploitation of
rabbits but also for keeping down their numbers. Hence there
have arisen strong differences of opinion about matters of fact, which
need to be resolved by an experimental inquiry scientiﬁcally con-
ducted. The purpose of this paper is to make a plea for a scientiﬁc
investigation of these and kindred questions.

2

 




§2. Variations in the abundance of the rabbit.

Rabbits have been known in this country for a great many
centuries, but so far as I am aware they did not come into much
prominence as a pest until the Ground Game Act of 1880. In the
Universal Directory, published in 1768, the problem was not how
to keep down rabbits but how to protect rabbits from foxes”). B y the
year 1880, however, it had been found that the tenant farmers’ crepe1
were being damaged to such an extent by rabbits belonging to the
landlords or the owners of the shooting rights, that it was considered
necessary to give the tenant farmers the inalienable right to kill
rabbits on their holdings, subject to restrictions. ' In order that they
might not be tempted to trap the landlords’ Winged game they were
prohibited from setting gin traps forrrabbits elsewhere than in rabbit
holes, and this limitation, with entirely new implications, has
featured prominently in recent controversy.

Farmers came to look upon the rabbit as a source of proﬁt, and.
the practice of selling the rabbits to a trapper working by contract
sprang up, particularly in Wales and Western England. Rabbits
did so much damage to agriculture during the great war that in l9l'7
drastic powers for reducing their numbers were conferred on the
Board of Agriculture by the Corn Production Act, but that Act was
repealedin 1921 and the powers for rabbit-control lapsed. The
seriousness of the problem can be gathered from the fact that
parliamentary bills dealing with it were introduced in 1922, 1923,
1924, 1925, 1927, 1928, 1929, and 1930, and the strength of
the opposed interests from the fact that all these bills failed to
become law, sometimes after making very considerable progress in
Parliament.

Siatiezfics. It has been extremely difficult to obtain statistics
which would give any reliable indication of the abundance of rabbits,
and I am much indebted to the superintendents of several markets
for those shown in ﬁgure 1. It should be noted that in these
graphs each abscissa corresponds to the middle of the period to
which it relates.

The most important curve is that, AB, which shows the
quantities of native rabbits sold in Smithfield market in each year
since 1911. I think that these ﬁgures may be taken as a fair index:
of the variation of the abundance of the rabbit in Southern England,
whatever may be the other factors that modify the details of the
curve. In support of this View we note that such ﬁgures as are.
available from Norwich, Melton Mowbray, and Chelmsford conﬁrm
the general trend of the Smithﬁeld curve for the years to which they
apply, and that there is nothing in the economic data shown in
ﬁgure 3 to account for its shape. A further conﬁrmation is found
in curve F, which shows the rabbits actually caught by a Devonshire
farmer and trapper, Mr. H. Wiekett, and conforms to the general

trend of the market curves. These data throw light on two ~

3

 

 

 




 

proposed explanations of the recent increase in rabbits, which
have been asserted very dogmatically but without evidence.

Increase of rabbits not due to low prices. Witness after witness
told the Mersey Committee”) that the increase in rabbits had been
caused by a fall in prices, and assumed that this fall had caused
trappers to catch fewer rabbits (although it might equally well have
been argued that trappers would have to catch more rabbits in order
to pay their way). A glance at ﬁgure 1 will show what the facts
really are. Nothing could be further from the truth than the
assertion that fewer rabbits have been caught in recent years. On
the contrary, the number has increased by leaps and bounds.
Whatever else may be uncertain, this is quite certain—that the
abundance of rabbits has not been caused by the fall in prices.

Rainfall and rabbits. Another statement which was repeated by
witness after witness before the Mersey Committee of the House of
Lords was that the recent abundance of rabbits had been due to the
silccession of dry years, or dry breeding-seasons. It is therefore
instructive to compare curve AB with curve G, which gives the
annual rainfall in England and Wales, and curve H, which gives the
rainfall for the second quarter, during which rabbits principally
breed. Vertical lines have been drawn through the prominent
turning-points of curve AB, to facilitate comparison with the
rainfall curves. For Scotland a similar comparison can be made
by means of ﬁgure 2. In neither case does there appear to be any
recognizable correlation between rainfall and rabbits. If anything
one might almost infer, especially from the Scottish curves, that
rabbits thrive in a wet year. No doubt weather must have some
effect, but to regard it as a main cause of the increase, as the
Mersey Committee did, is to replace fact by opinion.

Cyclical ﬂuctuation and overall increase. Returning now to the
curve for English rabbits sold at Smithﬁeld, we notice that it shows
marked periodicity. Peaks were reached in the years 1917 (though
the rabbit-harvest in that year must have been affected by war
conditions), 1923, 1930, and 1936. Thus the peaks recur every six
or seven years, and we are reminded of the 4-year cycle which Mr.
Elton has so clearly established for a number of arctic animals.
Superimposed on this cyclical ﬂuctuation there has, however, been
an overall increase in the abundance of rabbits, an increase which
explains the growing chorus of complaint from foresters and
successful farmers. Each wave of increase reaches a higher level
than the preceding wave.

Beveridge<18l states that in 1901 there were no rabbits on the Isle
of Vallay, North Uist. A pair were discovered in 1905; 130 were
shot in 1906—7; 949 were trapped and shot in 1916; 1,215 were
trapped and shot in 1917 ; 2,262 were trapped in 1927. He adds

4

A.




e

 

that “ even though theyare trapped regularly'they do not seem to
be decreasing. They seem rather to be a steady population.”

Causes of increase. The causes of the increase of rabbits are for ‘
the ecologists to determine, but it is the opinion of many competent
observers that the destruction of stoats and other predators by the
trappers is a potent factor in the situation. I am here touching
upon a controversial topic, but the opinion is held by such men as
Captain W. H. Buckley, who knows his own countryside as only
a hereditary squire and master of hounds can know it. Captain
Buckley states that there are farms in West Wales which, when
trapped for the ﬁrst time by commercial trappers as a result of the
high prices prevailing during the war, yielded 200 rabbits, a dozen
foxes, 30 to 40 weasels and stoats, and odd cats, dogs, 850.; but since
then these farms have been producing 2,000 or 3,000 rabbits a year.
Mr. Thomas Jones of Glanrhydw Farm, Kidwelly, mentions an
instance in which a farm trapped for the ﬁrst time yielded 290
rabbits, 2 badgers, 3 foxes, 18 stoats and weasels, and 11 stray cats<15).
The ﬁgures shown in table 1 are given by Mr. H. Wickett for his
catches in a district (Okehampton) that has been heavily trapped
for a number of years.

Whether from ecological or from economic causes, rabbits have
become most abundant wherever the rabbit-trapping industry
has been most intensively carried on.

Table l.——Animals trapped by Mr. H. Wickett.

 

' 1
1

1931—32 l 1932—33 I 1933—34 1934—35 1935—36 l 1936—37

 

 

l

I

1 (1,100 ( (1,100 ( (1,100 (1,200 1,200 E (1,000

1 acres) i acres) § acres) acres) acres) ‘ acres)

S l I ‘
Rabbits I 7,892 . 8,890 I 9,240 11,700 12,806 7,376
Stoats ,' 31 T 19 ‘ 28 48 54 24
Cats . t 13 ’ 10 I 25 41 2s 24
Hedgehogs ,' 1 9 ——- 5 l 2 1 4 7 6
Birds 3 200 240 l 312 304. 372 264
Rats § — — —— ( —— — 54:
Foxes j —— I —— —— l —— —— 5

i — ! —~ —- — 5

 

 

Dogs -—

 

Variation of increase with locality. Rabbits, though now
abundant nearly all over the country, appear to have increasedmost
formidably in those districts where the rabbit-trapping industry
has been most energetically carried on. Cornwall, Devon, Pem-
brokeshire, and Carmarthenshire are undoubtedly the hardest hit
by the rabbit menace. Is the commercial exploitation of the rabbit
a cause or a consequence of the abundance? As regards Car-
marthenshire, at all events, the facts seem to be clear(5) . The introduc-
tion of the industry as a result of high prices during the war

5

 




 

preceded the rapid increase of rabbits, and in eastern Carmarthen-
shire, where the farmers relied on local men with ferrets and snares
and refused to sell their rabbiting rights to contractors, the rabbits
have not exhibited that increase.

Prediction offat'are rabbit-abundance. If these curves can safely
be extrapolated into the immediate future, we may now expect the
abundance of rabbits to fall off somewhat and subsequently to rise
again until it reaches a new high record in 1942 or 1943. This
falling off is already shown by curves 0, D, E, and F, and it will be
.interesting to see whether curve AB will conform when it can be
completed. It is to be expected that the abundance will be con-
siderably greater in 1942 or 1943 than ever before, unless some
action is taken to prevent this result. On one hand, many interests
are now supporting a campaign for drastic steps to reduce the
numbers of rabbits. On the other hand, we may expect that
as soon as numbers fall and prices rise many of those who
at present regard rabbits as a pest will once more begin to
regard them as an asset, and will thus prepare the way for a new
outbreak.

Annual harvest of trapped rabbits. Some years ago I attempted
to estimate the number of rabbits trapped every year on the basis
of the number of new traps sold, the average life of a trap, the
careful statistics kept by Mr. Wickett, and the number of traps
. used by him. I reached the rough estimate of 36 million per
annum and, astonishing as this ﬁgure may seem, we may take it to
be of the right order, since Smithﬁeld and Glasgow between them are
selling about 3 million native rabbits per annum, and to these quanti-
‘ ties we must add those passing through large markets like Man-
chester, Birmingham, and Edinburgh, for which no ﬁgures are
available, as well as those sold in numerous small towns, and those
which are consumed locally without passing through any market.
The British Hatters’ Fur Manufacturers” Association estimate the
annual consumption of native rabbitskins in their trade at
20,000,000”).

§3. Economic status of the rabbit.

The rabbit as a pest. The Forestry Commission would gladly
see the rabbit eliminated altogether. Their net annual expenditure
on rabbit-control is about £30,000 per annumﬂll As regards pasture,
there is some experimental evidence for the view that 4%(6) rabbits
eat as much as one sheep. Table 2 gives a comparison, due to Mr.
J. L. Thomas of Dauntsey’s School, between the yield of a rabbit-
free experimental plot and that of a plot which was heavily infested.

6

 

 

t
f

 




1‘ we

 

Table 2.—Grass crop (green tons per acre) obtainable from rabbit-free
and rabbit-infested experimental plots. Estimated by sampling.

 

 

 

 

ihlay 25th, 1936 Hay crop Sept. 30th, 1936 May, 1937 2 Total

I

. 1 !
Eight-flee; 15.2 12 2.5 16 45.7

I

1

Rabbit- ’
infested 1 5.5 0 0.1 3.0 8.6

plot ' ;

 

 

 

 

But what is still more important is the deterioration in the quality
of grassland owing to the selective feeding-habits of the rabbit
Figure 4 shows results obtained in Mr. Thomas’s experiment. He
estimated the quantities of various kinds of plants in samples taken

/0% 2
§é u
Grasses
0% 207a
[Feless Useful-E
”Grasses EGrasseSE

5% 7% /4%

    
 

    
 
 
 

Original sward,

Feb. 1, 1936.

   
    
  
  
 
 

   

 

May 1, 1936.

 

 

 

 

 

   

Sept.30,1936.

Feb. 1, 1937.

  

I \4

se
Grasses 0°

 

~3-\
. U553; ess

:gGrassesEE

Ful
1111111

-||Il|'

U,

11

 

 

 

May 1, 1937.

l

 

(By the courtesy of The Farina?“ and Stockbreeder.)

Figure 4.—Progressive change in percentage composition of pasture, consequent
upon the introduction of a heavy population of rabbits.

from a grass plot carrying a heavy rabbit population at intervals of
several months. I do not wish to lay too much weight on any quanti-
tative deductions that might be made from the data in Figure 4,

7

 

 




 

because the rabbit-density was higher than that which might be
expected in the actual countryside. But qualitatively at least they
show the rapid deterioration in clover and useful grasses, with
increase in weeds and moss. It may take two years for a rabbit-
sick pasture to be ﬁt for sheep-grazing, and in Australia some tracts
of country have actually been converted into desert by the action
of - rabbits”: 8).

Cattle do not feed well on grass or hay that has been tainted
with the excreta of rabbitsm’). Rabbits also do a great deal of damage
to cereals by eating the young corn and trampling the standing;
corn, and to earth banks in certain counties.

The rabbit as food. It is not the practice to bleed wild

rabbits, whence the red colour of the ﬂesh as compared with
that of domestic or Ostend rabbits. The meat trade and medical

Table 3.—Comparative food values of rabbit, beef, and mutton.

 

 

 

Weight 1 Weight Protein-content 1 Energy-content 1 Edible
required required 1 of 100 g. of 100 g. ' meat on
to to 1 ‘ 1 live
produce . PTOdUC‘? Stewed Raw ‘ Stewed 1 Raw animal
100. 1 “33.11% 1 without } with 1 without 1 with
calories dagly bone 1 bone 1 bone 1 bone
- 1 ration . 1 1
‘ 3 of 1 1
protein 1 ; 1
1 1 a L 1
, 1 1
(g.) 1 (oz.) 1 (g.) 1 (g) 1 (cal.) 1 (cal.) (percent)
Rabbit 107.0 1 10% 1 9.31 ' 12.53 1 63.28 1 93.60 41.00
Beef 41.4 1 8% 1 17.56 1 14.70 1 117.57 241.60 49.60
Mutton 25.5 ' 11g 1 11.13 1 11.10 1 104.351 392.40 55.24
1 ‘ . 9.

 

 

 

afﬁcers of health have always attached great importance, from the
point of View of public health, to the practice of bleeding butcher’s
meat to the greatest possible extent, so that the wild rabbit, as
distinct from the domestic rabbit, cannot be regarded ‘as a whole-
some food. As regards the nutritive value of the ﬂesh, Sir Rowland
Sperling has collected from various authorities the data given in
table 3””, 11’ 12» 13’ 14: 15, 15). Rabbit ﬂesh constitutes about 3 per cent
of the meat supply of this country“).

Cost of rabbit-production. Finally, from the agricultural point-
of view it must be remembered that the cost of production is never
brought into account in ﬁxing prices : rabbits are fed free of charge
at the farmers’ expense. A questionnaire addressed by ULAWS to
West-country farmers in 1935 elicited reasonably uniform estimates
of the damage done by rabbits, which worked out at approximately

8

 




seven times the price received by the farmers for the sale of these
animals. The fact that rabbits can be sold for cash prevents:
farmers from viewing such damage in due perspective.

Diseases of wild rabbits. There are three chief groups of diseases of
wild rabbits in this country : (l) treponemiasis, (2) coccidiosis, and (3)
worm diseases. None of these is known to be communicable to man.
Although Treponema cameuli closely resembles the spirochaet
of human syphilis, there is no evidence of its transmission to cattle
or to man.

The only rabbit disease which is deﬁnitely known to be trans-
missible to man is Tularaemia. It occurs on the Continent and in
America, but has not at present reached this country.

It is the diseases caused by parasitic worms that are of
economic importance. The wild rabbit harbours the developmental,
cysticercoid stage of two tapeworms common to the dog, Taemla
serrata and Taem'a serialisan. It also carries the common liverfluke,
Fascz'ola hepat-iea, and there is some evidence that an increase of”
rabbits brings about a corresponding increase in liver rot among sheep-
Beveridgeﬂsi, writing about the growth of the rabbit population
on the Isle of Vallay, North Uist, where before 1905 no rabbits.
existed, states that although the rabbits are on the whole of healthy
stock, worm parasites are common, and a higher incidence of liver-
rot in sheep has been noticeable since the rabbits became established.
in large numbers.

R. Owen VVoodm’) mentions a Sussex farmer who found the worm
infestation in the herbage of the Downs so serious that he brought
his flock down to lower pastures, where their condition improved.

Attempts to exterminate the rabbit by means of virus diseases
have hitherto invariably failed. We must therefore maintain a.
sceptical attitude unless or until the claims now made for
111 ya'omatosis canicali shall have been substantiated.

Commercial exploitation of the rabbit. On the other hand, there
is a section of the community which is drawing a substantial proﬁt.
from the rabbit-trapping industry. One trapper in Pembrokeshire
employs 40 trappers who catch about 300 rabbits a night each
throughout the season. His trappers are paid 2d. per rabbit, the
farmer got last year from 3d. to 6d, and the dealer is presumed to
make a proﬁt of, say, 1d., 2d., or 3d. per rabbit.

Rabbitskins are used mainly for the felt-hat trade. They were
selling in Smithﬁeld Market in August at 2d. each, and the price-
may be expected to change as follows: September 25a, October 3d.,
Christmas until mid-February 5d., early March 2d. About.
20,000,000 native skins per annum are used by batters in this
country“). One curious effect of the skin trade is that shot rabbits
fetch a substantially lower price than trapped rabbits, the punctured

9

 




 

skin being of relatively little use to the iurrier. Apart from the
felt-hat trade, however, ordinary furriers use large quantities of
rabbit skins, which are sold under various grandiloquent trade
names. The skins of bucks are graded higher than those of
does.

. Gamekeepers trap considerable numbers of rabbits, and par-
ticularly on syndicate shoots they will gain part, or even all, of their
wages from the sale of these animals. Masters of Hounds, on the
other hand, do not regard rabbits as indispensable for the mainten-
ance of their sport; foxes feed largely on rats and moles, and such
an authority on hunting as Captain W. H. Buckley assures me that
the reduction of rabbits would not be fatal to that sport.

§4. Methods of catching and killing wild rabbits.

The merits of the various methods of dealing with Wild rabbits
have been the subject of very acute controversy, in which I have
taken an active part. 011 one side there is the desire to abolish the
gin trap altogether on account of the cruelty inﬂicted by it; on
the other side, most game-preservers wish to retain this instrument.
A number of conﬂicting interests have ranged themselves with
one and the other group of antagonists. The main questions at
issue relate to the agricultural effects of rabbit-trapping. My
purpose in this paper is to make a plea for a scientiﬁc investi-
gation of the technical effects of various methods of dealing with.
rabbits.

The gm trap. It is difﬁcult to deny that the gin trap is the
most proﬁtable means for making money out of wild rabbits, at all
events so long as the industry is conducted as it is at present.
Numerous attempts have been made to invent humane substitutes
~—that is to say, instruments which can be set in the same manner,
in the same place and with the same technical effect as the gin
trap——but hitherto the rabbit-trappers have invariably regarded
such inventions as unsatisfactory. Recently the Scottish S.P.C.A.
has brought out the Duncan trap, which, if large-scale trials should
bear out the results that have-hitherto been obtained on a small
scale, should prove a very deadly weapon. From the point of
view of the rabbit industry, however, it has the disadvantage that
it kills outright, and on this subject I feel bound to quote the,
evidence given by Mr. A. V. Sidebotham, a trap-manufacturer, to
the Mersey Committee”). He said (@514):

“ I do not think the trapper wants the rabbit to be killed
outright. I mean by that that the trap might be put down in
the evening; the rabbit might be killed in the early evening, and
perhaps the trapper visits the trap early next day. The rabbit
might have been dead for twelve hours; what would be the
condition of the rabbit for the market '? ”

10

 

 




 

 

 

On the other hand, there are strong grounds for regarding the

,rgin trap as an inefﬁcient means for keeping down rabbits. I am

well aware that this statement is controversial, and it is one
which ought to be tested authoritatively. Nevertheless, the
following facts are hardly open to dispute : (i) The gin trap causes
rabbits to leave the trapped area and move temporarily on to
neighbouring ground, in consequence of the screaming of the
trapped animals. (ii) As rabbits thin out, the labour of catching the
residual animals one by one rapidly increases, and trapping soon
ceases to be profitable. Trappers working by contract in the west
country rarely stay on one farm for more than a few nights. They
then pick up their traps and move on. (iii) The fact that trapped
rabbits have a market value discourages farmers from resorting to
cyanide fumigation. (iv) Trapping kills off the natural enemies of
the rabbit. (v) Buck rabbits fetch a better price than does.

There is some ground for supposing that (vi) trapping differentiates
between the sexes. Data arefv‘not sufﬁciently abundant or concord-
ant to decide this question, but one fact seems quite certain: if a
rabbit burrow is ferreted at the end of a long trapping season, the
does preponderate to an enormous extent. This is not conclusive,
but prima facie it suggests that trapping catches bucks more easily
than does. A few counts of trapped rabbits have been made, but
they yield discordant and ambiguous results. The relative numbers
of bucks and does in the traps depends not only on the relative
trappability of the two sexes but also on the ratio of the number of
bucks to the number of does in the population that is being trapped.
If it is true that bucks are the more trappable, then in country that
has been heavily trapped for some years there will. be more does than
bucks available to the trapper. An experimental research on this
subject must ascertain the sex composition of the population with
which it is dealing. It would need to answer the following questions:
What is the sex ratio in an average litter of wild rabbits? What is
the optimum sex ratio for rapid breeding? What is the sex ratio in
the pepulation that is being tested? What is the sex ratio in rabbits
caught with gin traps set in various positions, at various times of
year, and at various times of night? What is the sex ratio of rabbits
caught by ferreting, net-ting, and cyanide fumigation?

A theorem relating sex ratio in catches to sex ratio in the
population is given in the appendix.

Cyanide fumigation. Mr. David Stead, who was appointed by
the Government of New South Wales in 1925 as a Special Commis-
sioner to investigate the rabbit problem in Australia, has said that
“ the advent of Cyanogas is regarded as the most important event in
the whole history of rabbit extermination ”(9). In one year 54 tons of
Cymag have been sold in this country, killing possibly a million
rabbits. Large quantities of Cyanogas and Calcid have been
used for the same purpose.

11

 




 

 

One of these substances is blown into the rabbit burrows in the
form of dust, and is hydrolysed by the moisture of the earth, hydro-
cyanic acid gas being given off. This method has the advantages
that it usually kills all the rabbits in a burrow in one operation, and.
that it is extremely humane.

It has, however, been the subject of acute controversy.
Although it has been pioneered by a Master of Hounds, some sports—
men have fearedlz) that it might be used to the disadvantage of fox-
hunting. It may be admitted that some form of control might be
worth considering if it should be found necessary for protecting wild
species that are in need of preservation. Such control might also
afford a safeguard against failure, by ensuring that those who use
the method shall be reasonably efﬁcient.

It has also been alleged that the poisoned rabbits would, if
eaten, be harmful to man or beast ; that casualties are likely to occur
even out of doors from the use of such a strong poison; that rabbits.
not killed outright “ go about sort of half-gassed ”; and that the-
process of killing involves prolonged and acute suffering. (This.
last impression appears to have arisen out of confusion with war»
time gases.) All these allegations have been proved to be ground-
less and nobody with knowledge of the subject is likely to repeat.
them.

It has further been alleged that the circumstances in which.
cyanide fumigation is applicable are severely limited”). To this
statement I would reply that when it has been used with reasonable»
care and perseverance it has proved to be successful in such a,
variety of difficult conditions that failure may fairly be attributed
to unskilful use; fumigation can be used Wherever there are rabbit,
holes in which a trap could be set. This statement is a controversial
one, and one of the ﬁrst things that a scientiﬁc investigator might-.-
well undertake would be to ascertain the limitations, if such exist,
to the effectiveness of cyanide fumigation of burrows.

Other methods of dealing with rabbits. Various other methods of:
dealing with rabbits are available; most of them have been described
in ULAWS Monograph 4E, Instructions for dealing with rabbitslzo)._
These methods can hardly, however, be said to have the universal
applicability of the gin trap or cyanide fumigation. Nevertheless
it is worth pointing out that Mr. David Perkins”) , a prominent Pem-
brokeshire farmer with experience of 797 acres, has recorded a.
‘ striking fact. For 28 years he persisted in trapping all the year
round and at the end of that period the rabbits were as bad as ever.
For the past ten years he has substituted ferreting for trapping
and has succeeded in keeping his farm clear. Mr. T. Tozerl15), who
farms 600 acres near Exeter, used to employ a trapper thirty years
ago, and got about 4,000 rabbits a year. For the past 25 years he
has not allowed the gin to be used, and by ferreting and netting has.

12

 

 




 

 

freed his farm from rabbits. Similar experiences are recorded by
Mr. D. Wrayford<15l of Newton Abbot, and others.

The main issue. I do not wish to generalize too freely from
these instances, for there have been cases in which the trap seems to
have been successfully (if laboriously) used for keeping down
rabbits. I do claim, however, that they constitute a strong prima
facie case against the trap. As I view the matter, the reason for
using the gin trap is that it brings a proﬁt to the trapper, and the
:main issue is between trapping for commercial exploitation of
rabbits on one hand, and cyanide fumigation for getting rid of
rabbits on the other.

;§ 5. The humanitarian aspect and the need for a scientiﬁc
inquiry.

That the gin trap is a cruel instrument is not disputed. If a
physiological research worker were to do to any animal without an
anaesthetic what trappers do to rabbits, he would render himself
liable to a ﬁne of £50 for the ﬁrst offence and a ﬁne of £100 or
three months’ imprisonment for each subsequent offence, unless indeed
he had received Certiﬁcate A from the Home Ofﬁce, which would
not in fact be given to him for the purpose. On the other hand,
'trappers are allowed to perform the operation of leg-crushing for the
purpose not of advancing scientiﬁc knowledge but of making a few
pence each by the sale of carcases and skins. This is inconsistent,
.and ULA‘NS is urging that the gin trap should be prohibited in
Great Britain, as it has been already in Germany and in Norway.
There is a strong case for believing that economic advantage
rather than disadvantage would accrue from such a prohibition,
but the matter is open to controversy. It is desirable that the
community should know exactly what sacriﬁce, if any, the adoption
of humane behaviour would involve, and for this purpose a technical
investigation, made by trained ecologists, is requisite.

Such an investigation would also have economic advantages;
it would enable the community to distinguish clearly the purposes
for which the various methods of dealing with rabbits are effective,
and how far they are effective for those purposes. It might well be
extended to other rodents that are harmful to agriculture. Gin
traps are little used for rats by professional rat-catchers, but are
extensively used by farmers for those animals. Experiments made
by the Zoological Societym) have proved that the break-back trap is
-not much less efﬁcient than the gin trap, while it is substantially
cheaper. As regards the musk rat, it must be admitted that no
technique other than that of gin-trapping has yet been developed
to the point of adequate efﬁciency for dealing with that animal. It
does not follow, however, that such a technique could not be worked-

13

 




 

 

 

 

out. The following are some of the questions that might be answered
by a scientiﬁc inquiry:

I (i) What is the relative efﬁciency of the various methods (a) for
commercial exploitation of rabbits and (b) for keeping down rabbits?
(ii) To what limitations, if any, is the effectiveness of cyanide-
fumigation subject for (a) rabbits, and (6) rats? (iii) What is the
effect of the gin trap on the sex ratio of a rabbit pOpulation‘?
(iv) What are the effects of icrreting and other methods on the sex
ratio of a rabbit population? (v) To What extent does the gin
trap, scare rabbits away temporarily? (vi) What is the effect of'
the gin trap on the predator population, and to What extent do
predators keep down rodents? (vii) To what extent do the proﬁts
made by trapping rabbits discourage attempts to exterminate
rabbits '? (viii) What are the relative efﬁciencies and cost of gin
traps, break—back traps, and double-door cage traps for rats?
(Data are available from the Proceedings of like Zoological Society.)
(ix) What is the relative humaneness of the various methods?

§6. Acknowledgments.

I have to record my thanks to those who kindly supplied
statistical information—Mr. H. W. G. Millman, Superintendent of
Smithﬁeld Market; Mr. R. Burns, Town Clerk Depute of Glasgow;
Mr. Noel B. Rudd, Town Clerk of Norwich; Mr. H. K. Barker,
Town Clerk of hiielton Mowbray; Mr. G. E. Barford, Town Clerk
of Chelmsford; and Mr. H. VVickett. The Farmer and Stockbreeder
has kindly loaned. the block of ﬁgure 4. My thanks are also due
to Dr. H. Bargmann for obtaining information about diseases of
rabbits and to Miss Barbara Phillipson for plotting and preparing the
statistical graphs.

Appendix: Relation between the sex ratio m of trapped
rabbits and the relative abundance of does and bucks.

The numbers of does and of bucks present in the traps must be
supposed to depend both on the relative. trappabilities a, ,8, of these
animals, and also on the numbers :6, y present in the area that is
being trapped, as well as on the amount of trapping done. The
latter may be expressed by some variable t, and since twill disappear
in the ﬁnal equations no more precise deﬁnition of it need be given
than that implied in equations (1) and (2). Here a and ﬂ are
supposed, for a ﬁrst approximation to the facts, to be constant, and
it is assumed that the trapping is carried on with a uniform
technique throughout. Then

g; = ~ax, (1)

dy_._. 0
CH“ [3.21, (-)

14

 

 




 

‘3‘“; "‘T

 

if the tiapped area is su11ounded by an impassable fence, but
not 01110111 1se Hence

a: :. Ae”°“,
y : Be—B",

where A and B are the numbers of does and bucks, respectively,
present at the 1.1eginning of the season.

Let m. be the ratio of bucks to does present in the traps on a
givmrnight, when the amount of trapping done during the season
up to date is represented by t. Then

, m 2 831/1133,

 

B
——aAe(“—B>t. (9)

The 111111.1be1‘ of raboits left on the ground at this time is x—L—y,
and

x—H/ : Ae—aH—Be— ,_

“Yrite
a—f—B : 26
(it—,8 : 29!).
Il 1en
r+y : e‘"t (Ae"z"'t+Be—’A”t),... (1)
and equation (3) can be written,
,BB
_ _ 211M '7'
m— .e . .
OLA ‘ (3)

we have now to eliminate 6 between equations (1) and (5), and
and then replace 6 and (,6 by a and ,8.

Further, let 11s write

B

and
Then

H

_ WAB______)' 7” + /'m (1114 (7’+1>/2(r—1) .
f (A+B) (V1117. V 7") 1B) (5)

This is a relation between f, the fraction of the total population
remaining uncaught ; A, B, the numbers of does and bucks
respectively at the beginning of the season; and two quantities 1‘, m,
which are such that a buck is 7' times as easy to trap as a doe, while
711 times as many bucks as does are actually being caught.

At the beginning of the season, when f 2 1, m :: 1'B/A. At the
end of the season, when f 2 O, m: 0, 1, or 00 according as 1'> , :, or

15

 




    
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
 

< 1. Thus if bucks are more trappablc than does, all the bucks will
have been trapped by the end of the season and only does will be.
found in the traps, on the assumptions made. 'l‘hese. results appear
to correspond qualitatively with experience. For mid—season mu-
oditions, let us take a hypothetical case and suppose that A J} and
.r = 2. Equation (6) becomes

f = lanai—2).
1n thiscase, at the beginning of the season twice as many bucks as
does W111 be found in the traps. When 62 per cent of the rabbits
have been caught the numbers of bucks and does in the traps will
be equal. After that, does Will preponderate in an increasing degree.

REFERENCES.

(1) Report from the Select Committee of the House of Lords on Agriculture
(Damage by Rabbits) and Minutes of Evidence, pp. 8, 59, 125 and
passim (1937). '

(2) Letter from the Secretary of the British Field Sports Society, Horse and
Hound, p. 410 (h’larch 13th, 1936).

(3) R. G. STAPLEDON, The Land, Now and To-morrow, chap. 11, 12, and

. passim (1935). .

{(4) ROBERT SMITH, Rat-catcher to the Princess Amelia, The Universal
Directory for Taking Alice and Catching Rats and all other kinds of
Vermin, p. 2 (London, 1768).

(5) A. H. B. Kirkman, Man versus Rabbit, p. 18. (ULAVVS, 1934).

(6) Standard Cyclopaed-ia of .Modern Agriculture, edited by Prof. Patrick
\Vright, V01. 6, p. 91 (1910).

(7) W. G. HAWKES, Australian Journal of the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, vol. 8, p. 150 (1935).

(8) DAVID G. STEAD, The Rabbit in Australia, p. 13 (1935).

(9) DAVID G. STEAD, The Rabbit ﬁlenace in New South Wales, p. 64 (1928),

*(10) J. SIMPSON, The Wild Rabbit '(Pawson and Brailsford, Shefﬁeld, 1908).

(11) R. HUTCHINSON and V. H. MOTTRAM, Food and the Principles of Dietetics,
pp. 19, 93, 99 (eighth edition).

(12) W. M. CLIFFORD and V. H. MOTTRAM, The Properties of Food, pp. 91, 96
(1929).

(13) Medical Research Council, Special Report Series No. 187 (1933).

(14) R. H. A. PLIMMER, Analyses and Energy Values of Foods (Stationery
Ofﬁce, 1921).

(15) ULAWS, Memorandum presented to the Select Committee on Agriculture
(Damage by Rabbits), with Selected Supporting Statements, pp. 22,
23, 24 and passim (1935).

(16) Smithﬁeld Trades Institute, 1etter(15).

(17) H. GRAY, Veterinary Record, vol. 1]., p. 921 (1931).

(18) G. BEVERIDGE, The Scottish Naturalist, vol. 33, p. 194 (1932).

:(19) R. O. WOOD, A Survey of Sheep Management in Great Britain (College
of Estate Management, 1937).

(20) C. W. HUME, Instructions for Dealing with Rabbits (ULAWS Monograph
413, 1937). p

2( 21) E. G. BOULENGER, Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, p. 224

(1919).

 

 

Printed by C. F. Hodgson 8: Son, Ltd., Newton Street, London. W.C.2.

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
      

(:4; AHWD _ “1,, r




 

H. Rainfall,second quarter, England & Wales (in)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

. l0
H / I I 8
: ' PH I 6
I : f 4
' I
G : I . ' ' 42
l
l : G I d
' ' .E
. I ' 36 V
' l . E?
i : - é
‘ l 'FE:
’ : . , . 30 at
{ F. Rabbits Per acre trapped in DM\ .
:   : F
0. Annual ,rainfall,England & Wales. Qn : x E ‘ 24
I I
l : a
l i 3000
l ‘ '
' I
l _ , '
l 2500
l
E. Rabbits sold at Norwich (thousands)
,,/----f ---------------------------- - 2000
ﬂ, ”x l
a’f’ i
,' - 1500
. I/I : i '
E ” i ~
. I \————\//E C . 1000
A/\_'—/ i C. Rabbits sold at Melton Mowbray
. . . . s C 500
B English Rabbits sold at Smithnelo {tons}
A British » ,. ,, » . v o. ., ., Chelmsford. l v
. . . l . V .L .. I I _ .l. .L .
l9l2 l9l4 l9l6 l9l8 l920 l922 I924 l926 l928 l930 l932 l934 I936

Figure l.-—Abundance of rabbits and rainfall
estimated and prior to 1929 are uncertain.

were not distinguished from

English at Smithﬁeld before 1927.

per acre caught by Mr. H. Wickett.

for England and Wales.
The remainder are exact.

The data for curve E are
Scottish and Irish rabbits
Curve E shows the number of rabbits

Rainfall H (in,)

Rabbits A B (tons)

03
0

 

\l
O

Rabbits C, D, E (thous.)

0

Rabbits F (per acre)

UV

 

 

 




 

’)

K. Rainfall,second quarter, Scotland (in).

Rainfall K (in.)

6O

01
0‘
Rainfall l (in)

(In
0

 

445

. 900

. 700

 

Rabbits | (thous.)

I. Rabbits sold at Glasgow‘éhousands) . 500

 

 

 

 

aw-..—

w , ' ' "-—-'--~ ---—-4' l
l9l2 l9l4 l9l6 19l8 I920 l922 l924 l926 l928 l930 l932 l934 l936 l

 

Figure 2 .

 




 

 

N P

N, Price of Australian importled‘rabbits.<d>
I

P. I . imported rabbit skins (pence)
0. II per rabbit Smithfielld< Ir )

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Q
0. Imported Australian rabbits (tons)

 

 

 

 

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l

W/

sold at Smithfield (tans)

i B English rabbits

A BFIIISh p , 1/ 1/
. II.

I”

 

 

 

 

 

I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
l
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.I

 

 

 

l9l2 l9l4 I9I6 I9I8 I920

flr‘igure 3.-~x§kl3u,nda1100 of rabbits in relation to economic
were kindly supplied by the Superintendent of Smithﬁeld Market.
taken or deduced from the Annual Tables published by the Board of Trade.

Data for curves A, B, 0
These for curves N, P and Q are

-20

Price (d.)

3000

2000

l000

500

 

L;

Rabbits A B (tons)

 




  

 

\‘ w ‘ [1‘1 “74* m . ,
. k .1 _
1.1
/ ‘ r. 4
a . E A 1.
El: : . . L. -
. . Ml . .ua

 

11!!! V w ‘ ».

 




 

n“ ISN’T CRICKET

to torture rabbits with gin traps
for the sake of their cash vaiue

AND WILD RABBITS DON’T PAY

For information apply to

ULAWS

(The University of London Animal Welfare Society)
42 Torrington Square, London, W.C.I

 

 

 

 




ULAWS

supported entirely by voluntary contributions, is helping to
better the lot of animals, wild and domestic, by appealing to
reason rather than emotion. It asks for the ﬁnancial and moral
support of practical men. It hopes for yours.

THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY
42 Torrington Square, London, W.C.I.

a»
:9
LL

:2:

 




