 

Euro

11-17 DECEMBER 1997 Volume 3 number 45

 

ea nVuce

AWEEKLY VIEW OF THE UNION

Dom” CAUGHT up a i} A,

g ‘ .\
BY THE U.S. LEGHOLD TRAP AGREEMENT 595 E ‘ ©

i’ >/"‘/v“»:. 
"see page 5 g) r an» a
O... 2 .. m y :5 Ila] @ mg: .a. 16:“ E QLLAW ' _ “° “MA“

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ADVERTISEMENT

 

The EU has passed a landmark law against leghold traps.
Will the Clinton Administration be allowed to undemline it?

(.tn'ulr mug/H III a lz'g/m/d (711;).

 

I’l'mlomuph: Danni]. In it",

To THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS: — TheEULaw Against Leghold Traps 1

We respectfully request that you oppose the current trapping . In 1991’ the European Union adopted

proposal offered by the United States. The US. proposal will not Regulation 3254/91-
. As mandated by Phase I of the law, all

of the EU’s ﬁfteen Member States

prohibited use of leghold traps in 1995.
0 On December 1 of this year, Phase II of
Three quarters of Americans want leghold traps banned. Eighty- the law — its import ban on furs from

eight countries have already banned them. But now, the EU’s historic countries that have not either banned
law may be caught between the jaws of the Clinton Administration’s the trap OI“ ad0pted “internationally
two devious strategies: the deceitful proposal, and the scare tactic of a agreed humane trapping Standards“ '

threatened World Trade Organization (WT O) challenge. came into 63““ The US has failCd ‘0
comply with either provision.

reduce the unnecessary suffering of animals caught in leghold traps.
It is merely a ruse by the US. - both to avoid changing its barbaric
trapping practices and to avoid the EU’s fur import ban.

The proposal should be rejected because:

 

 

 

0 It’s fraudulent. The EU Commission has claimed that the US. offer to phase out conventional steel jaw leghold
traps within six years is unconditional. However, the US. Trade Representative’s Ofﬁce openly stated that the
proposed phase out of these leghold traps will be subject to numerous derogations.

o It can’t be enforced. The US. has stated clearly that trapping is not a federal matter, and it cannot force the states
to comply.

o It permits too much delay. Canada and Russia have committed to end use of conventional leghold traps

unconditionally in 4 years. The US. proposal permits 6 years — with derogations.

0 It’s based on a misreading of the threat from WTO. The Regulation is totally defensible under WTO. Don’t
give in to US. blackmail and talk of trade sanctions.

 

Since the (LS. has not agreed to stop using leghold traps,
the fur import ban should be implemented as required by law.
It should only be lifted if the US. puts forth a genuine
anti-leghold trap proposal, and the European Parliament
and Council of Ministers accept it.

 

 

 

$0¢O®4M®-- m®mwrf~mﬂwlflw

 

 

 

European Voice 11-17 December 1997

 




