fizieiesntrA 7‘30 kiwi i Hi“ 33'"! “it”? ’1'IZIQS

from the 3; , ; 1

A Message to every child—-

from every Animal

ANIMALS’ WELFARE WEEK is OUR WEEK
when everybody everywhere is asked to think
what every animal needs and because children can
be the best friends of animals we want very speci—
ally to ask YOU to think of us this week What
we need is very much what YOU need: ——

Food and Drink
Warmth and Shelter
Freedom to Run About and Play
Friendship and Sympathy
Often we don’t get these things.
We who are WILD ANIMALS—bears and

tigers, lions and monkeys, kangaroos and giraffes——
are often caught by men and taken away from
our homes in the jungles and forests and plains to
be imprisoned in Zoos and Menageries and made
to perform stupid tricks at cirouses and for the ﬁlms. YOU don’t
hurt and catch us but sometimes you .go to the Circus and laugh at us
and visit the Zoo and think it is interesting to see us in prison. And
often YOU believe the stories grown ups tell you about our being teiribly
savage and always ready to kill and eat Man, .. . .
when really and truly we have no desire to hurt
him so long as he- doesn’t try to interfere with
us, and if we can be sure he has no gun or net
or trap. But it is difficult for us to be sure of
this because we have been hurt so often. We
like National Parks and Reserves where we are
not molested.
Some of us who are WILD ANIMALS are
small soft timid things——hares and rabbits and
squirrels, moles and beavers and ﬁeld mice.
Often We are trapped and shot and hunted
because humans want our bodies to eat or our
coats to wear or because they like the fun of
chasing us. So we grow more and more afraid
and hide away from men and from children too, for sometimes even
YOU throw sticks and stones at us.
So what EVERY WILD ANIMAL asks EVERY CHILD 1s: ——
was Please let us be free and happy and
live our own lives in the woods and
2 1 ﬁelds and forests where we were
FE: l8 1911,11 born.

. “m 0!th ' . [P.T.O.
. m um " W ‘

we J, . =-W"‘

 




Those of us who are DOMESTIC
ANIMALS and share your homew
dogs and cats and tame rabbits and
guinea pigs—«often love you very
much. But sometimes YOU
frighten, us by handling our soft
bodies roughly, and sometimes we.
get ill and you don’t ask anyone to
COI’I‘IC and CHIC US, and sometimes . ' With acknowledgement to
YOU l{€Cp us Shut up tOO long and H. M. Brock and Messrs. Putnam’s
we get fat and flabby and dreadfully bored because we have no exercise.
Some of us, too, know what it is to be left out in the streets and .to be
lost and hungry, and to meet no one who tries to help us when’we cry
to them.

So what we DOMESTIC ANIMALS ask you specially is that you \x
will be our friends and learn to understand just What we need and
never forget that we are dependent on you for our health and happiness.

If no one ever hurt an Animal or frightened it, then NO ANIMAL '
would be afraid of any human being and we should all live together in
peace, and. there would be all sorts of lovely friendships between us.

WILL YOU, EVERY CHILD, think about
these things in this ANIMALS’ WELFARE
WEEK and decide that whatever grown up
people do, YOU at "any rate, will always be A
the Friend and Protector of ‘

EVERY
ANIMAL

EVERYWHERE.

 

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE,
32, Queen’s Avenue, London, N.10.

 




