THE MORALITY OF FIELD
SPORTS

Being extracts from an article written by the late Prof.
E. A. FREEMAN, Regius Professor of Modern History in
the University of Oxford.

“As a man’s views and arguments are commonly more
or less aﬂectecl by his personal position, I think it right
to say that my views on these matters are wholly the result of
reﬂection. I have no hereditary prejudices either way.”

I AM not going, though I feel strongly on the subject, to
preach a sermon on cruelty to animals-~a subject, by the
way, which those whose business it is to preach sermons
might with advantage deal with oftener than they do. Nor
am I going to put forth any extreme views on the subject
or on the other subjects which, in an historical and philo-
sophical View, cannot be separated from it. If I cannot
enrol myself alongside of the Earl of Winchilsea in looking
on common humanity as “ loathsome sensibility,” neither
can I enrol myself alongside of the Marquess Townshend
in deeming it unlawful, under any circumstances whatever,
to cause pain or inconvenience to any animal. I am neither
a Vegetarian nor an opponent of capital punishment. I
have no scruple as to taking the life either of man or beast
when real need calls for it. But I do wish to expose certain
popular fallacies and inconsistencies, and to point out some
historical and philosophical bearings of the question which
might not strike every one at ﬁrst sight.

In examining, either historically or philosophically, the
subject of humanity and cruelty, it is impossible to separate
the question of humanity and cruelty to man from that of
humanity and cruelty to the lower animals. Between cruelty
to man and cruelty to beasts there is doubtless a wide difference,
but it is purely a difference of degree. Humanity in either
case, cruelty in either case, is essentially the same feeling,
arising from the same tendencies in the mind.

It was confessedly lawful to kill animals either for food
or in defence of our lives and properties. Such hunting as
fairl. comes under these heads has nothing to be said against
it. ll’ly point is that modern hunting does not fairly come
under either of these heads. It is not carried on for either
of the ends which make hunting lawful. It is as distinctly
a sport founded on a morbid love 0f slaughter and torture
as the games of the amphitheatre.

 




Let us take the two cases separately. I will ﬁrst take
the case of hunting when it is necessary for the defence of
our own lives and properties. This is lawful war with the
Wild beasts; in early Stages of society it forms a very im-
portant part of man’s business, and something of the same
sort may occur at any time. The man who shoots a tiger
or a wolf is confessedly a public benefactor, and nothing
but a very recent and most grotesque prejudice hinders
equal honour from being assigned to the man who shoots
a fox. The object of such hunting as this is not to torture
animals for our amusement, but to slay them outright for
our protection. A man whose pastures are harried by a
tiger will get rid of the tiger in the quickest way that he can,
and will not artiﬁcially prolong his sufferings for the sake
of “ sport.” No doubt, even in hunting of this sort, which
is confessedly lawful and praiseworthy, a certain love of
adventure, a certain satisfaction in the exercise of skill, even
a certain touch of the certamz’nis gaudia, is perhaps unavoidable.

As soon as either war or hunting loses its purely defensive
character, as soon as it is pursued, not distinctly for the public
good, but as a matter of sport or out of sheer love of slaughter,
as soon as suffering is needlessly inﬂicted or wantonly pro—
longed, it ceases to be a righteous and praiseworthy occupation,
and comes under the general head of cruelty.

N ow will modern hunting stand this test ? Can any
modern fox—hunter honestly say that his hunting is done
with the legitimate object of getting rid of a noxious animal
in the quickest way P It is nothing of the kind. It is plain
that instead of men hunting with any object of getting rid
of foxes, the fox exists simply for the purpose of being hunted.

It is not too much to say that there are many people who
really look upon the killing of a fox anyhow but in the chase
as an awful and almost unmentionable crime. This at once
gets rid of any excuse that foxes are hunted in order to destroy
a noxious animal. Instead of this, the animal is sought out,
sometimes he is brought on purpose to the spot, in order that he
may .give “ sport ” . . . He is pursued till he is worn out by
weariness, and then he is put to death with brutalities equal
to anything done in the bear—garden or the amphitheatre.

N OW if this is anything but wanton and deliberate cruelty
I do not know the meaning of words. The essence of the

‘f sport ” is the needless fright, weariness, and suffering of a
liVlng creature.

To chase a calf or a donkey either till it is torn in pieces

or till it sinks from weariness, would be scouted as a cruel

‘*“~- “act. Do the same to a deer and it is a noble and royal sport.
It IS, as we have seen, a legal crime to worry a cat. To

 




worry a hare is a gallant diversion. And men who would
lift up their hands in horror at the wanton torture of a bull
or a bear, deem no praises too high for the heroic sport which
consists in the wanton torture of a fox.

That the cruelty is an essential element in the sport, that
the presence of a suffering victim is needful for its full enjoy—
ment, is not to be denied. Those who tell us that they hunt
for the sake of a healthy exercise could get that healthy
exercise just as well by hunting a red herring or by taking a
a gallop wherever a gallop may be had, without hunting
anything at all. .

I say then, without hesitation, that fox-hunting, which
ages back may have been a praiseworthy means of ridding
the country of a noxious animal, has, in its modern shape,
degenerated into a sport of wanton and deliberate cruelty.
Strip it of its disguises, and it is that and nothing else. . . .
What the sportsman does is wilfully to prolong the long—past
savage state in his own person.

I do not justify the grouse-shooter or the deer—stalker,
but his sport seems to have less of wanton cruelty in it than
that of the fox—hunter. In the case of deer—stalking the mere
size and majesty of the animal would, one would think,
awaken a certain sentiment of sympathy; it must need a.
hard heart wantonly to shoot down so noble a beast in the
full enjoyment of his native wilds. Still there is this difference :
the work of slaughter is not absolutely continuous, and in
intent at least, it is simple slaughter and not prolonged torture.
In the fox—chase on the other hand the work of cruelty lasts
'«without ceasing from the beginning to the end of the sport.

The modern deer—hunt is simply a run after a creature which
there is confessedly no design to kill, but on which a great
deal of fright and weariness is wantonly inﬂicted. The “ sport”
or pleasure to be found in such a piece of contemptible cruelty
is certainly hard to understand. And after all, in deer-
_hunting too there are ugly doings done behind the scenes.
In a late article on the subject in the Quarterly Revzew, we
were calmly told, in language which savoured alittle of the
slaughterhouse, how the hounds were at certain times allowed
to “ go into ” a hind—that is, I suppose to tear her in p1eces—~
in order to “ blood ” them. A man who set his dogs to tear
a sheep in pieces would at once find his way before the magis—
trates, and few people would p1ty h1m if his sentence was as
:severe as the law allows. This subtle distinction between one
ruminant and another is really beyond me.

It is a touching feature in this kind of “ sport ” that the
Zhunted stag commonly takes refuge 1n the sea, the wrath of
7the elements being less to be feared than the wanton cruelty

 




 

of man. But against that wanton cruelty the elements them~ '
selves do not afford a shelter. The luckless beast is pursued
in boats, he is seized and dragged along till he either dies
in the waves or is brought to land to afford fresh “sport ”
to his tormentors.

The principle of cruelty is essentially the same in all these
sports, and it is perfectly indifferent whether it is a prince
or a tinker by whom the cruelty is committed. Still, in the
case of hare—hunting, the victim is so specially timid and
defenceless that to condemn it to wanton fright and torment
may perhaps need a harder heart than to do the like by a
stag or a fox. The sufferings of the hare could call forth
a passing emotion of pity even from a heathen sportsman.
But I presume that, in the amusement of coursing, to see
what Arrian shrank from looking on, and to hear “ the last
human cry of the hare in the fangs of the dogs,” forms part
of the reﬁned enjoyment.

The moral and social effects of these sports form a subject
' which opens many questions. Nothing is plainer than that
the love of hunting in its different forms has led to some of
the worst acts, to some of the most unjust and oppressive
legislation, to be found in all history. The accursed forest,
laws of old times, surviving in a modified shape in our modern.
game laws, are the suitable monuments of an age of special
devotion to the chase. It was not wonderful if those who!
found their chief pleasure in the sufferings of animals learned-
to look lightly on the sufferings of their fellow—men, and if
they fenced in their savage enjoyment with a code of the
blackest cruelty. It was the love of hunting which led
directly to the worst deeds of our Norman kings, and, though
no such results can happen now, yet the example is instructive.
It shows the natural effect of the unrestrained indulgence of
such pursuits on men who were but little under the restraint
of law or opinion in other ways. ‘

The advocates of humanity have a hard battle to ﬁght,
but I am not without hope. The good cause has made
great advances. As in everything else, there are ﬂuctuations
and reactions, and perhaps of late years there may have-
been a certain reaction in favour of cruelty. So it has been
with the growth of political freedom; still political freedom
has advanced, and so I feel that it must in the end be with
the cause of humanity.

Price %6f each, or 3.0 for I /~— jboszfﬁ’ee.

LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS;
YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET, LONDON, W.C.2.

 

Yr4gz. The Botolph Printing W oaks, Gate Street, K ingsway, W..C,.2

 




