OU R MEANEST ORII‘VIE.

IE PAPER

Read at {/10 Church Camgruss at Fol/mstunc, 1892,
BY

JOHN H. CLARKE, M.D., (ﬁre.

3fmthmt :
VICTORIA STREET AND IN 'I‘IQILNA'JfIIm'A, 1; HUGE, 1111‘ I I‘m; Ti! 21
PROTECTION OI“ ANIMAL?» FROM VIVI;~-‘I<1<;"I“I(.)I\:,
20, VICTORIA STREET, SW.

1892.

 




Printed by PEH'TIIESS «47- (10.,

28, LITTLE QUEEN STREET, Jhuu llommux, LONDON “CU.

 

 

 

 




 

 

”v,“ _ -V.....— , A3, ’ .-,..,..._- nW’ ‘ . ‘

 

OUR MEANEST CRIME.

A Papm‘ marl at the Church Congress at Fol/ccstono, 1892,
BY JOHN H. CLARKE, M.D., «\‘zo.

 

Dr. CLARKE read as follows :—

To the question propounded to this meeting, “ Do the
interests of mankind require experiments on living animals ? ”
I beg to return an answer in the negative. My reasons I
Will now lay before you.

For the judicial mind it is of the utmost importance to be able
to distinguish between opinion and fact. To-day the Church of
England has, in a manner, accepted judicial functions on a
most urgent question, and, at the outset, I beg of the tribunal
to keep well in mind the importance of this distinction.

When a student enters the portals of a medical school, he
ﬁnds there placed over him men of learning, endowed in his
imagination with all possible knowledge in their several
departments, and endowed in solemn earnest with the power
of professional life and death so far as he is concerned. He
ﬁnds these men, his demigods, exercising certain privileges,
teaching certain doctrines and holding certain opinions which
he must assimilate and be able to reproduce if he is to acquire
his license to practice. Sent to these men by his parents
without any hint that there may be a question as to the
righteousness of anything they may do or say, how is a young
boy to avoid being absorbed in the life and opinions of his
school? Escape is all but impossible.

I confess I shared the common fate. I learned to look
upon Vivisection as a horrible necessity; but yet, a necessity.
I learned to look upon the vivisectors as men who were the
leaders of the profession, and those from whom such light and
help as were attainable in the dark and devious ways of medicine
were to be sought. It is true I saw but little of the practice.
I saw frogs have their heads out off that their still living muscles
might be dissected out and experimented on before the class.
Here the pain was only momentary, death being instantaneous ;
but the method of handling the creatures was revolting—
though, as I imagined, necessary. I saw the liver cut out of
a living mouse, and boiled immediately, to show to students

 

 




 

that in the fresh state that organ contained no sugar; and it
did not occur to me then that this was a perfectly unnecessary
demonstration. A. pigeon which had had part of its brain
removed I also saw, and I supposed that the exhibition of this
poor creature, still living, but robbed of all the brightness of
its existence, was a necessary 111ethod of teaching me the
functions of the brain. I did not then dream of questioning
the prevailing opinion that experiments on living animals
were necessary and therefore right.

The ﬁrst years of practice outside the shielding walls of a
hospital and medical school are years of disillusionment to
the medical fledgling. Such they were to me in many par-
ticulars. The opinions I had absorbed met with manya rude
shock when brought face to face with actual facts. \Vhen I
came to deal myself with sick people I found that the men
and the books I had expected most help from were the least
able to give me what I wanted : and of sheer necessity I found
myself compelled to break loose from opinion in various
directions, and set myself steadily to search for the facts.

I trouble you with these few personal matters because I
Wish to show you how medical opinion is generated and trans-
mitted, and how it lives in the minds of those who do not
happen to be so constituted that they can break loose from
its fetters, or from some of them.

And now I must add a warning. Medical opinion is never
so much to be suspected as when it is unanimous. Doctors,
you know, have a prover bial right to differ: it is one of our
sacred privileges which we exercise without reserve in
particulars; but in generals we are frequently unanimous;
and then our unanimity is truly wonderful. For ages it was
the unanimous opinion of the Faculty that blood-letting was
the chief method of restoring the sick to health and of
keeping the healthy sound; though Moses, a better
PllySiologist than them all, had thousands of \ears be fore
declared that the blood was the life. Scareely less unanimous
were the profession in the opinion that next in value to
copious and repeated blood lettings as a 1e111edial agent came
mercurialisation—an opinion epitomised by medical wisdom
in the pretty phrase, “ salivation is salvation! XX hen
Harvey completed so far as he could the h\ pothesis of the
circulation of the blood, the medical profession was
unanimous in the opinion that he was wrong: the )Iessieurs

 

 




 

5

Purgon and Diafoirus of the time laughed him to scorn, and
stigmatised him and the few who stood by him with the
nick-name “ Circulators.” And now we have the British
Medical Association declaring itself at Nottingham equally
unanimous in the opinion that vivisection, or experiments on
living animals, have been of “ inestimable service to man and
the lower animals, and that the continuance and extension of
such investigations is essential to the progress of knowledge,
the relief of suffering, and the saving of life.”

Such is the unanimous British medical Opinion regarding
vivisection: we will test it presently by comparing it with
the practical results brought forward at the Congress which
gave it expression. But before doing so, I want to make one
or two points clear. In the ﬁrst place, the common idea that
physiological discoveries are made by simply opening up a
living animal and looking into it, is completely erroneous. It
is nothing so simple. Vivisection means tedious and difﬁcult
observations of animals after they have been dissected alive,
and whilst they are still living; and so complicated is the
process that it is the rarest thing for two experimenters to
be agreed about the results of the same experiment. The
next point I wish to insist upon is that there is no necessary
connection between physiological discovery and improvement
in medical practice. How was it that wholesale blood-letting
was put a stop to? Was it by Harvey’s discovery of the
circulation ‘2 Not at all. It was not until 200 years after
Harvey’s time that the profession gave it up, and then it was
not the physiologists or the vivisectors that introduced the
innovation. To this day the most popular of medical
journals bears the name of the sanguinary implement on its
title-page. The third point is, that the results of experiments
on animals cannot be taken as any guide to what will happen
if the same experiments are tried on man. So far from
vivisection saving human beings from being experimented
upon, it actually necessitates it ; and one doctor a few years
ago explicitly stated, in a letter published in the Standard,
that hospital patients existed for that purpose: they were,
said he, “corpora vilm,” paying for gratituous medical services
by affording in their persons a field for the experimenting
proclivities of their medical attendants.

I will now return to the Nottingham Congress. After that
very sweeping resolution we should naturally expect that in

 




 

 

 

 

(3

the proceedings of the Congress there would be, as the
outcome of vivisection, some great improvement in medical
practice announced to sustain it. But there was nothing
of the kind. In the department of 'l‘herapeutics (that is,
the “ curing” department proper as distinguished from all the
“knowing ” departments) there had been a grand committee
appointed the previous year, with Professor W. T. (iairdner
at its head, and its report was—Absolutely nothing done !

In the department of Pharmacology—the science of study-
ing drug action by means of viviscction—a great deal was
done. A certain Dr. Chadbourne, of the United States, read
a paper on the pharmacology of a new kind of cocaine,
having a slightly different chemical composition from the
ordinary kind. (And here I would point out parenthetically
the perfect free trade that exists among viviseetors—
British, American and Continental. The American Dr.
Chadbourne’s experiments were performed in Berlin, through
the “kind permission” of Berlin vivisectors, for the ediﬁ-
cation of a Congress of British doctors.) llis experiments
were made on frogs and rabbits chieﬂy. These animals were
poisoned with the drug and then dissected alive. They had
their brains and spinal cords exposed, their spinal cords cut
producing paralysis; their vagus nerves dissected out, out
and stimulated ; and some of them, in addition, were put under
the inﬂuence of the “hellish ” ('l/l'dl'l’, as Tennyson has ﬁtly
called this drug, which heightens sensation, whilst it prevents
the animal from exhibiting any sign of what it feels. Mark
what followed! The next step was—not to cure, but—t0 ex-
periment on human beings. Through the “ kindness ” of a pro-
fessor of surgery, Dr. Chadbourne was allowed to experiment at
will on the corpora cilia of the professor’s hospital patients. He
does not appear to have hurt them much—he dropped the drug
into their eyes, and found it behaved very much in the same
way as the ordinary cocaine. But what had this to do with the
spine and nerve cuttings and curarising of rabbits and frogs '2
Nothing at all. If he had never touched an animal, but had
simply dropped a little of the drug into his own eye, as he did
into those of the hospital patients, he could have found out
more than all his cruel experiments on the animals could have
told him, namely, how it affected sensation.

This is a typical example of the absence of connection
between Pharmacology and therapeutics fully illustrated in




7

Dr. Lauder Brunton’s book on the subject. When this ponder-
ous tome came out it was said by one of the medical journals to
mark a new epoch in medicine. More’s the pity for medicine!
At the International Medical Congress of 1881 I ventured to
protest against the practice of Vivisection when employed for
the study of drug action. Dr. Brunton was so moved by my
heretical conduct that he came to me after the meeting, and
in all honesty and good faith expostulated with me on What
I had done. A correspondence between us followed, and in
his concluding letter he said that the study of drugs on the
entire organism was too complicated an affair to make any-
thing of; that their action must be studied on each part
separately, as in Dr. Chadbourne’s research. But the
use of it all? Search Dr. Brunton’s book and see. I defy
anyone to ﬁnd any connection between the experiments and
the uses of the drugs that will stand analysis. Generally it is
like this—which actually occurs in the book : Stemware, we
are informed, kills animals by paralysing their vagus nerves.
And its use ? It is good, says Dr. Brunton, for killing lice!
We are much obliged to you, Dr. Brunton, for the information,
but most village dames knew that long before you were born!

Now let us come to Pathology—the science of disease.
\Vhat has Vivisection done to advance that during the
year? Did the Nottingham congressers teach the world
anything useful on this head? Professor Victor Horsley,
at the dispensary for sick animals, over which he formerly
presided, has done an enormous amount of cutting up of
living animals in the supposed interests of pathology, and his
labours in this department earned for him the position of
President in the Pathological Section at the Congress in ques-
tion : and yet, in his presidential address he said : “Pathology
as such is almost unknown among us; ” and as a remedy for
this state of things he urged the necessity for more vivi-
section. Speaking on a paper by Dr. Vaughan Harley, who.
as Grocers’ Research Scholar has been carrying out a series
of exceedingly painful pathological experiments, Dr. George
Harley, another eminent pathologlst, entirely endorsed the
president’s remarks. “More Vivisection” is the unanimous
demand of the Congress as the only possible remedy for all
medical shortcomings. The daughters of the horseleech are
not to be compared to these gentlemen in. the insatiate cry,
“ give, give.” Nothing, or, rather, worse than nothing,

‘ ‘ “"FTT'VT’C'T' m a

 

 




 

8

comes of it all; but that makes no difference. Theirs is the
argument of the venerable seller of matches; they may lose
on every experiment, but it is the quantity that is going to
pay. Therefore, “ give, give,” is their cry.

Let us look a little at Dr. Vaughan Harley’s work, paid for
by the City Grocers, and carried out at Christiania and Leipzig
for the delectation of the British Medical Congress.

The sweetbread is a very deeply-seated organ, and to cut
it out, or experiment upon it, necessitates the opening up of
the abdominal cavity, the displacement of internal organs and
a great deal of cutting and tying of deep-seated vessels and
nerves. In Dr. Harley’s research sometimes the Whole of
the gland was cut out ; sometimes part of it only. When the
animals recovered from the operation they suffered from
thirst and hunger, and slowly and miserably died. No good
came of these experiments. 'We are no better able to treat
diabetes, the disease they were supposed to elucidate, than we
were before. All that the experimenter can say after the pain
he has inﬂicted is this : “ There is no disease richer in clinical
and experimental literature than diabetes mellitus, and
certainly none that has had a greater diversity of opinion
expressed regarding its pathology.” Quite true! The more
experiments, the more uncertainty, the more darkness;
therefore, “ give, give”!

The same vivisector related at the same Congress another
research on the “Pathology of Obstructive Jaundiee.” In
this investigation, in order to keep the animals (dogs) alive as
long as possible, his ﬁrst endeavour, he tells us, was “to
restrain, as far as possible, the activity in the dogs’ digestive
functions whilst they were under the inﬂuence of the
operations.” That is to say, he starved them. He gave
them no food for from ten to seventy-two hours before they
were operated on, and withheld it after the operation for from
one to seven days. The operations consisted in opening the
abdomen and tying the bile ducts and the thoracic or lymph
duct. Out of nine of the animals so operated on ﬁve died
from rupture of the ligatured bile duct, causing peritonitis,
and two more died of peritonitis Without rupture of the bile
duct. And for all this dreadful work no human being is, or
is likely to be, one whit the better.

That you may form an idea of the horrible torture
involved in these experiments, I will refer to an incident upon

 




 

 

 

 

 

i)

which [ commented some years ago. A surgeon who was so
proud of his achievement that he wrote an account of it in
the INN/ml and afterwards urged it in a letter to the Tina's
as a strong argument in favour of a “free vivisecting-
table,” operated on a dog, cutting out part of its bowels,
stitching the ends together, and then stitching up the
Opening he had made in the abdominal wall. The operation
was done under anzesthetics, and therefore is called
painless. But mark the fraud of anzestl’ietics as applied
to vivisccted animals. Operations on the abdominal cavity
entail at the best very much after-suffering, even when
the patient receives the most assiduous nursing. But
what about the nursing of a vivisected animal? It is left
fastened to a board—generally the board on which it has
been carved. The second night after the operation in the
casein question, the animal lay there, crying in pain. Its
cries attracted another dog in the laboratory, which was
waiting the same fate. This one broke loose from its tether,
and went to help its wounded companion. It ﬁrst gnawed
through the cords that bound it; and then, thinking apparently
that the dressings were the cause of the pain, the dogs tore
them off. Then they ran round the laboratory together
through the night, until the wounded one dropped from
exhaustion. and was found in a dying condition from
peritonitis at 10 o‘clock the next morning, when the surgeon
visited the laboratory. This incident will help you to realise
the sufferings of the animals even in the cases in which
anaesthetics have been used for the ﬁrst part of the operation.
Hence it is that I say that the use of anaesthetics by vivisectors
is to a very large extent a fraud on the animals.

Medical history is full of examples of the contrast that exists
between the unanimous opinion of doctors as to the value of
vivisection. and the facts on which that opinion is supposed
to be based. I need only refer to Dr. Koch’s supposed con-
SUHIPthH cure. In thelaboratory he gained from experiments
certain information of the behaviour of guinea-pigs inrelation
to the poison of consumption. I do not deny that “ informa-
tion ” may be gained from. these experiments; but I do mam-
tain that the information is either pernicious, or else is obtain-
able by innocent means. Herophilus is said to have discovered
from the vivisection of 600 criminals that man has a
pulse. He could have discovered this by merely feeling

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

w“... _ ..___.______ v._... -V ,. I

10

his own wrist. Koch by Vivisect-ion gained information about
guinea-pigs and consumption: what was the good of it?
His laboratory conclusions proved fatal to numbers when
tried in hospitals, as Virchow and others have abundantly
proved. Again, we have heard much of the extraction of
brain-tumours as being an outcome of experiments on
animals, not to say 011 living human beings—hospital patients
pressed into the service of Vivisectors. On the other
hand clinical observers foretold that the data for such
operations was so uncertain that surgeons were not warranted
in performing them, and this the event proved. The ﬁrst two
patients on whom the operation was tried were killed by it ;
and so many others have followed, that Sahli, the latest
authority on the subject, condemns the operation and supports
the clinical observers.*

It may be asked, how can an intelligent and in most
respects humane profession be so far wrong? I answer, It is
dominated, or intoxicated,—hypnotised, if you will,——by the
Vivisecting spirit. If the profession were quite sober on
the question, how would it be possible for responsible
men like Sir James Paget and Sir Joseph Lister to
make the perfectly outrageous statements they have
done about Pasteur’s proceedings? Sir James said at
the Mansion House, when advocating the establish-
ment of a British Pasteur Institute, that M. Pasteur had
saved the lives of 900 persons from dying of hydrophobia
as certainly as if he had snatched them from drowning.
Sir Joseph in his speech in deputation to Sir M. Hicks-
Beach modestly put the ﬁgure at 12,000. These statements
are simply absurd; there never was anything like such a
mortality possible ; and yet so dominated is the profession by
the Vivisecting spirit that no word of contradiction has gone
forth from its responsible organs. In defence of Vivisection
no statement is too outrageous. What are the facts? In

7 The proceedings of the recent “International Congress of
Experimental Psycholog ” fully sustained this view. Professor
Victor Horsley having read some notes on “ Experiments 011 the
Degree of Localisation of Movements and Correlative Sensa-
tions,” the Provincial Medical Journal says : “ A lively discussion
ensued, in which Professors Hitzig and Henschen insisted on the
great difference between man and the lower animals.”

 

 




 

 

 

11

France, the country most affected by Pasteur s experiments,
the mortality from hydrophobia has actually increased since
he began to inoculate for it. This is easily accounted for.
Professor Peter and Dr. Lutaud have shown that Pasteur has
actually killed a number of his patients by a disease of his
own invention—paralytic rabies. Professor Horsley has
proved that the inoculations were fatal in one of the English
cases ; and I have ascertained that in another the symptoms
with which the patient died were entirely unlike those of
ordinary hydrophobia, and corresponded accurately with
those of the Pasteurian variety.

We are often told that it is only eminently scientiﬁc
persons who can understand this question of experiments on
living animals. I admit that it requires a certain amount
of technical knowledge, not so very difﬁcult to attain, to be
able to unravel the complicated relations of medical fact and
medical opinion, and to distinguish clearly the one from
the other: but this has now been done, and the question
itself is simple enough for the humblest understanding to
decide.

If vivisection were of any real beneﬁt to mankind, surely
it is human vivisection and not that of animals that would be
the most valuable. But nothing good has come of human
vivisection. Our modern Herophili ask for animals only:
though they do not scruple to use human material, with
or without consent, when chance gives it them in the
hospital or workhouse inﬁrmary. Such has been the
history of the cancer-grafting cases; of the victims
of the Koch consumption “cure;” of Mary Rafferty and
the m an Rusticucci, whose brains, exposed by accident, proved
too tempting a ﬁeld for the experimenting proclivities of
their medical attendants; of the victims of the nitrite
of sodium experiments; of the boy, aged 10, “who had
never in his life tasted alcohol,” and who was repeatedly dosed
with it by his doctor that the latter might learn the effect of
alcohol on the bodily temperature ; and of the man whom the
same doctor made “dead drunk” for the same purpose. It
must be so; animals differ so greatly from one another and
from man that experimenters are obliged to experiment on
human beings in the end. They do not admit this; they say,
give us a free vivisection table and we will save you from
suffering. That is their plea. What does it amount to?

 




12

They ask to be allowed to inﬂict on man’s poor relations——
not death, which is the common lot of man and animals alike,
and which need not be painful, but—unlimited pain, the worst
of all evils known to them, to save man from suffering pain,
which may be to him no evil at all, and which is often the
direct consequence of his own wrong-doing. Shelter yourselves.
from suffering, they say in effect, behind the quivering bodies
of our innocent mutilated victims: rob the poor man of his
one ewe lamb to save your own teeming ﬂocks. If it
were true—which it is not—that they could perform what
they promise, could the Church of England hesitate to
pronounce judgment on a plea so inﬁnitely mean? A
recent diocesan conference decided by a large majority
that it did not know enough about the question to
decide, and it evinced little inclination to provide itself with
the information necessary. The present meeting is an
assurance that the Church at large does not endorse this
attitude. The great and powerful Church of England cannot
afford to play the Gallio on one of the most urgent moral
questions of our time. Should the cultivated and reﬁned
refuse to decide, the unlearned toilers of the land will rise up
in judgment against them and will decide it for themselves.

In spite of all its faults, our country has on former
occasions pioneered the world in the cause of freedom. The
masses of the nation are gradually informing themselves on
the question of vivisection, and are becoming less and less
inclined to be blindly led by the class Opinions of the medical
profession. Presently they will speak with a voice that will
not be mistaken. Our country—I. trust with the Church’s
help and guidance—once more will lead the world in the
pathway of right-doing, of winning justice for the oppressed,
and beginning at home, will purge itself from this, the
meanest of all its crimes.

 

 

 




