 

 

 

ﬂ MEDICAL PEQEEESION

AND l’l‘S

 

MORTALITY.

0ka

m

T“ W 3 P’VXMQA \If «(:49 ‘Irw'yg;

 

[Reprinted with Corrections and Additions from

 

THE MODERN REVIEW, April, 1881.]

 

iLonbon:
PEWTRESS & 00., PRINTER-S,

28, LITTLE QUEEN STREET, HIGH HOLBORN, WC.

 

 

i

I

 

 

 

 

 




 




 

4*
. t

28,

 

THE

MEDICAL PROFESSION

AND IT S

MORALITY.

 

[Reprinted with Corrections and Additions from

THE MODERN REVIEW, April, 1881.]

 

10110011 :

PEWTRESS & 00., PRINTERS,

LITTLE QUEEN STREET, HIGH HOLBORN, W.C.'

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

“ The Medical Paper}; which men think so
defensible, and the Religious Popei'y which they think 30

indefensible . ’ ’

HERBERT SPENCER.

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

PREFACE.

 

THE article, of which this pamphlet is an enlarged
reprint, was answered in the next number of the same
Review, July, 1881, by the late Dr. W. B. Carpenter,
and by “Two of the Profession.” A third article,
which it was hoped would deal out justice in the con-
troversy, was devoted by its writer merely to throwing
oil on the waters.

In the present reprint, a few small errors noted by the
former critics have been corrected. It has not been
thought necessary to take much notice of their reckless,
ﬂat denials of many notorious, or easily proveable, facts,
such as the general rowdyism of medical students, the
history of the Vivisection Act of 1876, the prevalence
of medical love-making in recent novels, &c., &c.

Reviewing the paper after the lapse of ﬁve years, the
author feels afresh impressed by the urgent need of
public attention to the charges made therein g—charges,
it may be added, of which the heaviest are now corro-
borated by extracts from recent Addresses and articles
by the leaders, and in the accredited organs of the
Profession itself.

November, 1886.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE MEDICAL PROFESSION
AND ITS MORALITY.

 

 

ONE profession amongst all those exercised in this
country has importantly shifted its position during
the past century. The Army, the Navy, the Church, and the
Bar stand much where they stood in the days of the Tudors;
but Edward IV.’s “ Corporation of Barber-Surgeons ” has
made a wonderful ascent from its pristine status, passing
up from Henry VIII.’s “ IncOrporated Society of Surgeons ”
to the “ College of Surgeons,” as it exists in the reign of
Victoria.* A parallel elevation has taken place at the same
time in the other branch of the medical profession which
previously occupied (so far as its rank and ﬁle were concerned)
a very humble position, even while a few eminent men in
each generation rose to wealth and honour. At last the
ignoble squabbles of the surgeons with the physicians, and
of both with the apothecaries, are hushed, and the united
professors of the Healing Art have lifted themselves as a
body altogether to a higher plane than they ever before
occupied. By dint of cohesion and generalship they form
a compact phalanx, and have obviously suddenly arrived
at the consciousness of corporate power. The Medical
Council, already far ahead of Convocation, has become a

9* The Incorporated Surgeons grew out of the Barber-Surgeons, and in its
turn became the origin of the College of Surgeons. In 1797, Lord Thurlow,
in opposing the Bill for the incorporation of the latter, was rude enough to
observe that “ by a law still in force the barbers and the surgeons must each
use a pole,” and that the pole of the surgeons must terminate in a gallipot
and a red rag. He would be a bolder Chancellor than Thurlow who, in
1886, would not tremble on the woolsack ere he reminded the surgeons of
our day of the pole and the gallipot.

 




 

8 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

little Parliament, destined soon to dictate to the larger
Senate of the kingdom, not only concerning its own interior
affairs, but also concerning everything which can by possi-
bility be represented as affecting the interests of public
health.* As medical ofﬁcers in parishes and unions, factory
and prison surgeons, public vaccinators, medical ofﬁcers of
health, and very commonly as coroners, the doctors are daily
assuming authority which, at ﬁrst, perhaps, legitimate and
beneﬁcial, has a prevailing tendency to becOme meddling and
despotic. In the Army and Navy the surgeons, long unfairly
deconsidered, now haughtily claim equally unreasonable
precedence. Even the Government of the country appears
unequal to, the task of contending with the profession since
Sir Richard Cross succumbed to the deputation which
invaded the Home Office many hundreds strong, and reduced
him to the humiliating concession of turning his own
rVivisection Bill from a measure to protect animals into
one to protect physiologists. The tone of bullying adopted
by the medical Press when the Government presumed at its
own discretion to appoint a Registrar-General who happened
not to be a doctor, was apparently intended to strike terror
into the hearts of any Ministry which should venture again
on such a step; and the same may be said of repeated
efforts to insist on the penalties to be inﬂicted on the
heretic victims of these modern Inquisitors, namely the
parents who refuse to allow their children to be vaccinated.
In all neWSpaper correspondence, indeed, wherein medical
men express their views, a new tone of dominance, not to say
arrogance, is perceptible; nor do many lay writers on the
press, or speakers in public meetings, venture to allude to the
profession without a sort of rhetorical genuﬂexion, such as
a Roman Catholic pays 6% passcmt in referring to the Pope

* A critic of this paper (Modem Review, {[uly, 1881) scoffs at this remark,
and ranks the Council. “the biggest sham in England—nothing but the
embodiment of a Wind-bag.”

 

 

 




 

AND ITS MORALITY. 9
or the saints. At the meeting of the Birmingham Branch
of the British Medical Association on the 29th June, 1883,
the President, Dr. Balthasar Foster, complained that “in
the House of Lords they (the doctors) had no vote where
the Church had its Bench of Bishops, and where the public
service of lawyers found their ﬁnal recognition.” But the
Birmingham Branch President was modest beside the
President of the Association, Dr. A. T. Waters, who con—
cluded his inaugural address at Liverpool, July 81st, by
saying (as reported next day in the Standard): “ Amongst
the many changes which revolving years would bring, might
they not hope that . . . . there would come a fuller recog—
nition of the claims of its members to some of the higher
honours of the State ? The presence of medical men in the
House of Lords would strengthen the powers of that House
and beneﬁcially inﬂuence legislation.”

Literature, as usual, reﬂects in its waters the growth of
the aspiring tower on its banks, and represents the heroines
of at least half the novels, of the last decade as passionately
adoring their doctors, to the cruel disparagement of all the
gallant soldiers and pious clergymen, who, in the earlier
years of the century, were understood to command the
affections of the romantic seX. As it will generally be
admitted, even by those who most highly esteem the
profession, that a lady’s medical adviser is the last person
with whom it is natural or desirable that she should associate
the notion of love-making, this favourite modern legend of
Dr. Cupid and Miss Psyche speaks volumes for the space
now occupied by the professors of medicine in the popular
mind.

This universal uprising of the practitioners of the Healing
Art has naturally gone on part passa with an increase among
the laity of care for bodily health and ease. It would seem
as if our ancestors scarcely realised how painful is sickness,
how precious is life—so enhanced is our dread of disease,

 




 

10 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

so desperately anxious are we to postpone the hour of
dissolution! As old Selden said, “ To preach long, loud,
and damnation is the way to be cried up. We love a man
that damns us, and run after him to save us.” “ To preach
long, loud, and sanitation ” is the modern doctor’s version of
this apophthegm, and we do “ cry them up,” and run after them
to save us from “ germs,” and all other imps of the scientific
imagination. No one can foresee to what lengths our
poltroonery may go in this direction under the energetic
preachments of such Boanerges as Mr. Huxley and Dr.
Richardson. The thunders of the divines have long sunk to
a far-off roll of old formulae, reverberated down the ages and,
able to disturb us no more. But the claps of the sanitarians
are fresh and strong, and we tremble as we hear them; for,
though we believe little concerning our souls, we have a
lively faith in our bodies, and generally follow the example.
of the French lady whose epitaph records that she

Pour plus de securite’
Fit son paradis dans ce monde.

In short, in every department of public and private life, the
doctors are acquiring power and inﬂuence, and coming to,
the front. They are new pilots who have boarded our ship
and will shortly have a very large share of the handling of
the helm. It is a matter of deep importance to us to know
who and what manner of men they are and towards which
point of the moral compass they will guide us.*

First, who are the Doctors of Great Britain in 1886 ?’
From what class of Society are they recruited? Why do

it It may be suggested that another reason for the increased honour paid
to doctors by our generation is due to the fact that they have ceased to be
empirics, and become true men of science, and that they really are able to
cure us better than their predecessors. Such is, of course, the common
belief ; but it would seem that the faith of each generation of patients in its
own generation of doctors had been always as high as it could possibly be,
Whether those doctors were the veriest quacks or the reverse. Each one has

 

(”if a.

 




 

 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 11

 

they choose their profession? What is their education and.
general moral status ?

In America and in several countries in Europe medical
men often belong, by birth, to the “ Upper Ten.” It is,
not uncommon for French nobles in these latter days to
be doctors, and we have lately heard of a German Prince
adopting the profession. In Italy—ruled as it now is to a
disastrous extent by “ Professors ” of all kinds—the doctors.
naturally take large share in the Government. In England,
on the other hand (as is generally known, and as the
Medical Directory proves), it has not been customary for»
men of the higher ranks to send their sons to Kings.
College or Guy’s instead of to Eton or Christchurch. The
Hon. Dr. Herbert, Lord Carnarvon’s brother, is mentioned
so frequently in this relation that it would seem he must-
stand almost alone of men of his grade in the medical pro—
fession, while the Army and Navy and Clerical Lists swarm
with the noblest names in the land. As a rule, it appears
that the majority of British doctors are either the sons of'
men of the secondary professional classes or of tradesmen,
and in some cases (especially in Scotland) of intelligent.
artizans. In Wales cases are not infrequent of doctors who
themselves exercised humble trades, or were even domestic
servants.

Much credit is due to medical men for the honourable ambi-

seen new remedies puffed by the faculty, and old remedies falling into dis-
credit; and we may say in our day as safely as Voltaire did in his time,
that a doctor is a man who pours drugs of which he knows little into
stomachs of which he knows less. If science, with all its boasting, and after
its hecatombs of bloody sacriﬁces, had really made important advances in
therapeutics, we should at least be able to point to some one or two
unquestionable speciﬁc remedies for the most terrible scourges of mor-
tality, such as cholera, or consumption, or cancer. Nothing of the kind,
however, has been heard of; and it is even asserted, on respectable authority
and with reference to registrar-generals’ reports, that the mortality from
the principal organic diseases is actually at a rate far greater in England
to-day than it was thirty years ago. On this matter we do not pronounce an
opinion.

 




12 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

‘tion wherewith they have stepped upward ; but it is well to
bear in mind that they generally enter society (whenever they
attain its higher levels) by right only of their personal and
"professional merits; and that they do not necessarily bring
with them quite the same set of ideas on all subjects as are
(current among the young men educated in the great public
schools or older universities. In no invidious sense, but as
a simple matter of fact, they should be understood to be a
,parvemo profession, with the merits and the defects of the
class. Thus they are more apt to hang together, and make
common cause against outsiders, than even the lawyers.
That there are hundreds of medical men in the truest sense
“ gentlemen,” judged either by the most conventional or
the loftiest standard, we all know from experience. But
«entry into the profession of medicine cannot be said (as
Rochefoucauld remarked long ago'happened in the case of
the profession of arms) to make a man lose his vulgarity or
his coarseness, if he be originally coarse or vulgar-minded. if

The motives which lead men to become physicians or
surgeons are not far to seek. The average income of the
British doctor is said to be £50 a year higher than that of
the British parson, and less dependent on the chance of
patronage. The pecuniary prizes within reach of a successful
surgeon or physician are enormous ; and, though no peerage

9* The lady who sits at dinner beside a new acquaintance—be he squire or
parson, barrister or soldier—rightly accepts any serious assurance he may
give her of facts under his own cognizance, knowing very well that the word
'of an English gentleman is, as a rule, to be trusted, and that he has pretty
well learned at Harrow and Eton, Christchurch or Trinity, to regard a lie as
the forfeiture of his caste. But when the stranger happens to be an eminent
Physician or Surgeon, it must be questioned whether she may equally take it
for granted that he will not tell ﬁbs about many subjects (6.9., vivisection or
vaccination) on which they may discourse. The speaker’s manners may be quite
as polished as those of the peer or the guardsman, but he was neither born to
similar traditions nor educated in the same atmosphere ; and it is to make a
:silly mistake to forget the fact. He may be a more truthful,——a more con-
scientiously truthful—man than any of the others, but, if so, it is by personal
merit alone. There is no Ct jar/tom? presumption that truthfulness is ingrained
in his habits.

 

 

 




 

 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 13‘

 

has yet been given to a doctor, the “ Bloody Hand” of a.
Baronet holds out considerable attraction. Finally, beside
such mercenary reasons, there are two motives of a higher
sort, which undoubtedly exercise great inﬂuence on the choice»
of able and good men. The ﬁrst is the Scientiﬁc interest
of medical work. In this the profession stands almost
alone, so as to become the natural vocation of a youth with
scientiﬁc tastes. The second is the motive of pure Humanity,
the simple desire to relieve the woes of suffering men and
agonising women ; to diminish the pain of the world, and to-
prolong useful lives. This is a noble, a divine motive for
the devotion of a life; and it would be wrong to doubt that
many a poor country practitioner, and many a skilful
London physician, has been guided by this exalted feeling
in his choice, just as truly as his brother has been led by
genuine piety to enter the ministry of religion.

The fact, however, that there are many good men urged
by none but the loftiest and purest motives, amid the:
thousands of whom the profession is composed, ought.
certainly not to make us leap to the conclusion that all
doctors are pure enthusiasts of humanity. As an able
writer in the Spectator well observed, it is as absurd to
predicate the same moral character for all men who enter
the medical profession as for all men who pass over West-
minster Bridge. There are, as we have just seen, sufﬁcient
low motives, as well as high ones, to lead young men to such
choice. It is the misfortune of the Clerical profession, that.
the performance of its ordinary duties requires an assump-
tion of pious feeling which even sincerely religious men do
not always hold ready at command. The consequence is
(as Hume long ago explained) that genuinely good clergymen
are often led into some sort of hollowness and affectation,
while men who have entered the priesthood from merely
secular motives are apt to degenerate into downright hypo-
crites. In an analogous way, it is the misfortune of the

 




 

14 . THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

'Medical profession that the performance of its ordinary
duties involves the appearance of humane feelings, which
may or may not be present on any particular occasion, but
which the patient and his friends usually expect to see
exhibited, and which the doctor is consequently almost
driven to simulate. Where the medical man is naturally
kind-hearted, there is no incongruity between his beneficent
act and benevolent sentiment, and no shade of hypocrisy
tarnishes his behaviour. But when the doctor has adopted
9his profession as a mere gagne-pa’m, or from taste for science
rather than love of humanity, then a certain affectation of
sympathy with his patients and their afﬂicted friends is forced
upon him, and we behold the not very rare phenomenon of
;a medical Tartuffe.

This matter is the more needful to be analysed, because
the idle ideas current about the “kindness” of doctors
make it seem, to not afew good souls, almost a sacrilege
to question any of the abuses of the profession. These
simple hearts totally forget that a patient is to a doctor
what a rock is to a geologist, or a ﬂower to a botanist—the
much—coveted subject of his studies. If patients do not
come to a doctor, the doctor must go in search of patients ;
and if he could not see them in the hospitals for nothing,
he would pay to be admitted to see them and exhibit them
to his pupils. Very often, when the sufferer or his friends
are with tearful gratitude thanking the doctor for having
remitted some portion of his fees, the learned man must
inwardly reﬂect that he would have paid a good round sum
rather than have missed so curious a case. Let any one try
(as the writer has done) to remove to better quarters a
pauper suffering from some “interesting” afﬂiction, out of
the reach of a doctor who was attending him for “ charity,”
and the sentiment of pure benevolence will not be so
manifest as might be expected. On the other hand, a
display of sympathy is. part of the stock-in-trade of a

 




 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 15

 

physician (especially of one who attends ladies), without
which he could not hope for a large clientéle, any more than
a grocer would succeed in business who failed in civility to
his customers. Of course, there is much real, most disin-
terested kindness shown by medical men to their friends
and patients. They would not be human if it were not so,
and nobody dreams that they are insensible to the claims
of charity or sympathy. But the everlasting “kindness ”
and “ guinea—amiability,” vouchsafed supremely to the
wealthiest patients, is, as I have said, only part of the
doctor’s stock-in-trade, like the blue and red bottles in the
Chemist’s shop.

Against the attractions of the medical profession now
enumerated, sufﬁcient to account for the adoption of it by
so many thousands of youths, it is good to set the opposite
circumstances, which deter from it a differently constituted
order of minds. To begin with, few men of poetic tempera-
ment are likely, for very obvious reasons, to become doctors.
To make the weaknesses and maladies of our poor human
frames the subject of a whole life’s study and attention, so
that a man should, as it were, live evermore in a world of
disease; to pass from one sick-room to another, and from
a distressing sight to a fetid odour, in endless succession;
to acquire knowledge by the dissection of corpses, and
employ it, when gained, in amputating limbs, delivering
women in childbirth, dressing sores, and inspecting every-
thing ugly and loathsome to the natural senses,—this is
surely a vocation which calls for either great enthusiasm
or great callousness. The Doctor is, in truth, at the very
antipodes from the Poet or the Artist. It would seem to
outsiders as if a year of his profession would sufﬁce to blot
from the mind all the beauty of the world, and to spoil
the charm and sanctity of the sweetest mysteries of human
nature. Everything which the painter, the sculptor, the
poet touches with reverent and loving hands—the soul—

 




 

16 THE M'EDICAL PROFESSION

 

speaking eye, the heaving breast, the lip which meets lip
in supremest emotion,——all these are to the doctor the seats
of so many diseases; organs where he may look for an
amaurosis or a cancer. Of course, we know that men of
great reﬁnement of feeling are found to conquer all such
natural repugnance, and suffering humanity may be grateful
(so far as medical science brings it relief) that there are
those who can do so, and even ﬁnd the wards of a hospital
quite as delightful, and much more interesting, than the
terraces of a garden or the galleries of the Vatican. To
these aesthetic objections to the profession of medicine must
be added another of a different but scarcely less effectual
kind. Custom has settled that the mode of remuneration
for the services of doctors (in the higher walks especially)
should take the peculiarly awkward form of a direct transfer
of coin from the “hand of the private patient. This practice,
even among well-bred persons, is liable to involve disagree-
able incidents, and with vulgar and rude ones must cause to
a physician of high spirit endless annoyances which are
wholly escaped in those professions wherein service is paid
by public salary or by fees which pass through an ofﬁce.

We have seen who are our doctors, and why they choose
their profession. Next we may note, in passing, as regards.
their education, that they commonly change in the tran-
sition from a medical Student to a full-blown Physician or
Surgeon, in a manner quite unparalleled by other youngsters.
The embryo parson, soldier, or lawyer, at Oxford or Sand—
hurst, or while “ eating his dinners,” is, indeed, usually a
little less sedate than he becomes a few years later ; but he
only differs from his adult self as the colt diﬁers from the
horse, the playful puppy from the responsible mastiff. The
medical student, on the contrary, undergoes a transforma-
tion like that of a larva, when it becomes a moth. One day
we notice Bob Sawyer, as a rowdy and dissipated youth,
With linen of questionable purity, and a pipe and foul

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

_ AND ITS MORALITY. 17

 

language alternately in his mouth; the béte—noire of every
modest girl, and the unfailing nuisance of every public
meeting, where he may stamp and crow and misbehave
himself. Anon, Robert Sawyer, Esq., M.D., or M.R.C.S.,
emerges the pink of cleanliness and decorum, to ﬂit ever-
more softly through shaded boudoirs, murmuring soothing
suggestions to ladies suffering from headaches, and
recommending mild syrups to teething infants. His old
celebrated canticle——— '

Hurrah for the Cholera Morbus,
Which brings us a guinea a-day,

has unaccountably been changed for such burning zeal to
save humanity from disease, that he is ready to persecute
anti-vaccinators to the death, or cut up any number of
living dogs and cats merely on the chance of discovering
some remedy for human suffering. *6

We now reach the most important feature of the subject,
the general Moral Character of the profession; and here
we must all thankfully recognise that medical men, as a
body (after their studentship), exhibit many virtues, and
comparatively few of the grosser vices. So far as the
memory of the present writer extends, there have been
no worse or more numerous scandals affecting doctors
during the last twenty years, than affecting the clergy.

3“ The late Dr. Carpenter (Modern Review, July, 1881, p. 499) says that the
above passage “ bespeaks either gross ignorance or malicious feeling. No
modest girl has now anything more to fear from Medical students than from
the undergraduates of our Universities.” In reply to this it might be enough
to refer to the Police Reports generally; but it will be better to quote the
Medical Times’ opinion of the project of opening a suitable residence with
supervision for Medical students in London. “We would much rather see the
London Medical student as he is, a little wild, a little rough and guilty perhaps
of occasional lapses from virtue, than have him surrounded by the reﬁned
fripperies and the polished restraint of an academic life. More billiards if
you like; but, Proctors, distinctly N0! . . . . Make the student more
virtuous and you will make the practitioner more vicious.”——Medical Times,
November 1, 1884. (Italics ours.)

 




 

 

 

18 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

They are industrious when poor, and often liberal when
rich. In times of war, or epidemics, their devotion to
their chosen tasks rises, not seldom, to true heroism.
The ordinary English country practitioner, with his small
pay, his rough work in all weathers, and his general kindli-
ness and honesty, is one of the most respectable and
valuable members of the community. This and more may
be said to the credit of the profession. On the other side
there are grave charges and suspicions (chieﬂy attaching to
the fashionable physicians and surgeons of the great cities
and health resorts), which, though not often openly eX-
pressed or marshalled together, are yet sown broadcast
through the minds of the laity, and which it is highly
desirable should be fairly stated, and then either rejected as
unjust, or allowed their due weight in the guidance of
conduct between the public and the profession.

It would be exceedingly unjust to include among the ele-
ments of such a judgment as this the exceptional crimes—
murders, adulteries, and seductions—which may be laid to the
charge of individual offenders in every profession. The only
point regarding these which here concerns us is the obvious
fact that, if by any misfortune a man with criminal proclivi-
ties enters the medical profession, he pOssesses, as a doctor,
unparalleled facilities for the commission and concealment of
crime. A Prichard or aLa Pommeray, handsome and gentle-
manly, who may desire to remove a rich wife or mistress
out of the way, either to inherit her money or marry another
woman, can scarcely ﬁnd any difﬁculty in administering a
slow poison, or so arranging things as that the victim shall
swallow a rapid one by mistake. Even the purchase and
possession of deadly drugs (in other men a damning evidence
of guilt), scarcely afford ground of suspicion against a
doctor. Of course, we know that not one doctor in 500
can for a moment be suspected of such crimes; but who
will venture to say that not one in 5,000, or one in 25,000,

 

 




 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 19

 

doctors may prove another Palmer or Webster or Prichard,
or such a reckless wretch as he who, a few years ago,
answered the advertisement offering £60 for a poison ?

It is a serious question whether, in the event of the commis-
sion of such crimes, we should ﬁnd medical coroners alert
and ﬁrm in dragging to light every suspicious circumstance
and sending the case unhesitatingly to trial, or whether they
would let down ,their colleague as easily as might be prac-
ticable, and direct their jury to ﬁnd a verdict of “Misad-
venture.” The same remarks apply to crimes of another
cast—seduction, adultery, and offences committed on nar—
‘cotised victims. Doctors are as little open to such charges
:as other men, but not less so; and again it must be borne
in mind that they meet temptations and possess facilities for
committing and concealing such offences which fall to no ’
other lot.

Leaving now this question of exceptional crimes, which
ought to be excluded from our judgment of the general
character of the profession, let us inquire, ﬁrst, what are
the principles supposed to prevail amongst medical men?
and then, secondly, what can we gleam concerning their
practice?

It has been long generally believed that while the profes-
sion on the Continent is almost to a man, Atheist, a milder
and less defined Materialism is usually accepted by English
medical men as their philosophy of the universe. Of late
years the homage paid by the profession to certain eminent
men of science has, rightly or wrongly, conveyed the
impression that nine doctors out of ten, if they spoke out,
would call themselves Agnostics. *6 These gentlemen may
perhaps say that it is no business of their patients to ask
what are their private opinions on theology and morals so

* So far as we can learn, doctors in country parishes mostly profess Church
principles, and, occasionally, go to Church. In London they send their Wives
to represent them.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

20 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

long as they administer to them the right drugs and set their
bones, secundum artem. But, in truth, it is the business of
everybody to learn what are the genuine beliefs of men who
are certain ere long to leaven society therewithal. The
doctors are now much more to us than drug administrators
and bone-setters. Few prospects are more profoundly
alarming than the advance to ubiquitous inﬂuence of an order
of men who should, as a rule, reject and despise those ultimate
faiths of the human heart in God and Duty and Immor-
tality, which ennoble and purify mortal life as no physio-
logical science can ennoble, and no‘ physical “sanitation”
purify. It is a matter of importance to every individual
amongst us to know whether the man who will stand by
our death-bed and the death-beds of our beloved ones, will
help us to look up beyond the gaping grave, or will throw the
pall of his silence and disbelief over the ﬂickering ﬂame of
dying hope and prayer.

There are missionary physicians now sent forth into-
many heathen countries (notably to Japan), where they
effect more conversions than all the clerical missionaries.
together. Who can help foreseeing that the converse will
happen at home, if the doctors who come closest to every
man and woman in the supreme hours of life and death
should exhale their dead and hopeless materialism in every
word and look? The man who entertains a private
conviction that the tender emotions are merely glandular
.“ affections,” and that a mother’s love, a poet’s inspira-
tion, a saint’s prayer, are simply transformed beef and
mutton, bread and beer—this man must, even if he be
never so reticent, draw a trail of cold and slimy doubt over
the fairest and noblest things in human life. There is, of
course, a great and ever—present temptation-to a physician
to view things from the material, or (as our fathers would
have called it) the carnal side; to think always of the
inﬂuence of the body on the mind, rather than of the mind

 

 




 

 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. ‘ 21

 

on the body; to place the interests of Health in the van,
and those of Duty in the rear ; to study physiological rather
than psychological phenomena; nay, to centre attention on
the morbid phases of both bodily and mental conditions
rather than on the normal and healthful ones of the 7nens
sana in corpore sano. All the more reason, then, is there
anxiously to desire that the man subjected to such down—
ward pressure should possess some faith on whose wings he
may be lifted above the mire. Woe to him, and to all
whom he may inﬂuence, when a doctor is at once in theory
and practice, a Materialist and a Disease-monger.*

Be the principles and opinions of the medical profession
what they may, we have now to consider their practical
conduct. The observations to be made on this matter may
fall under ﬁve heads. -

1. The raison d’e‘tre ‘of the medical profession is to cure
the diseases, relieve the pains, and, when possible, prolong
the lives of men. To attain these beneﬁcent ends, Science
must be the guide—Anatomical Science, Physiological
Science, Chemical Science, and so on. Honour is justly
due, then, to the physician who‘stndies science in order to
cure his patients. -

But is it equally honourable to study patients in order to
acquire science ?- Is it well to treat suffering human beings,
——as, in the medical jargon of the day,—-—merely so much
“clinical material?” Is it right to consider hospitals
as primarily existing, not that patients may be cured,
but that doctors may be trained ? Assuredly, whether
it be, or be not, morally justiﬁable to look on men and
women in such a light, it is not to do so that doctors are

it There exists a Medical Ritualistic Brotherhood, styled the Guild of
S. Luke. Hopes were entertained at its formation that it would set itself to
oppose the abuses of the profession; but they have been regretfully aban-
doned since the publication, in Macvnittan’s Magazine, of a paper by the

secretary, defending Viv1section with the usual base appeal to human
selﬁshness and cowardice.

 




 

22 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

paid, either by their private patients or by the public which
supports the hospitals. The impression may be false, and
is necessarily vague, but it is extremely Strong and wide--
spread that the primary beneﬁcent object of the profession,
its only ostensible object—namely, Healing—is daily more
and more subordinated to the secondary object, namely,
Scientiﬁc Investigation; in short, that the means have.
become the end, and the end the means. It is believed
that patients having diseases scientiﬁcally interesting, are.
needlessly detained in hospitals, and, instead of being,
treated with a single-eyed view to restoration to health,
are subjected to experiments calculated to elucidate patho-~
logical problems even at the cost of prolonged suﬁering or
increased dangerﬁ'“

 

Q , , it In a letter in the Times, dated November 22, 1883, a London physician of
high standing, Dr. Watteville, after rebuking another person for bringing a
charge against a doctor “ of having used patients in a hospital for other
purposes than those tending to their own direct benefit,” proceeds to say:
“ So far from there being a reason why moral and pecuniary support should be
refused to hOSpitals on the ground that their inmates are made use of otherwise
than for treatment, there is even ground why more should be given to them in
order to compensate by every possible comfort for the disconiforts necessarily
entailed by the education of succeeding generations of medical men, 850.”
“ Sentimentalists who uphold the abstract rights of men and want to push them
to their logical consequences have no other alternative in the question now
before us than to condemn the modern course of medical studies.” The
reader will likewise remember the exposure of the experiments on Hospital
patients by Drs. Ringer and Murrell in 1883. Commenting upon them, the
Standard, November 1, said : “It is beyonctcontroversy that nitrite of sodium
was administered to 47 patients, producing in the large majority of cases the
most distressing eﬁects, not, apparently, to the surprise of the medical men
who were conducting these observations. One at least of these 47 patients
had nothing the matter with him except ‘a little rheumatism.’ What the
others were suffering from we do not know.” . . . . In a letter signed
“M.D.,” also in the Standard at the same time, the writer quotes Dr. Ringer’s.
“ Handbook of Therapeutics,” 8th edition, p. 340, where it appears that the
author and three other doctors cited had given twelve ounces of good brandy
to one man in a single dose, making him “ dead drunk,” to “healthy young.
men ” other huge quantities; and on “ a boy aged ten who had never in his life.
before taken alcohol in any form,” they made a “large number of observa-
tions” of the same kind, apparently to settle some problem about reduction of
temperature.

 

 

 

 




 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 23

 

Similarly, in private houses, if experimentation be rare,
the physician yet often betrays that his interest centres on
the purely scientiﬁc aspect of the case. He gives himself

great pains to make “ an accurate diagnosis,” to be veriﬁed, '

perhaps, hereafter, by a “ successful post-mortem ; ” but of
the means of cure he thinks so little that he has been some-
times observed to start, when asked by the not-unreasonably
vexed patient, what he recommends him to do? and to-
reply, “Oh, to be sure! you ought to do something; I will
write a prescription.” By—and-by, patients will begin to
recalcitrate at paying heavily to afford their doctor another
“ case” to classify in the tables of his learned work on the
lungs, the liver, or the brain, whereon he expects to found
his claim to immortality and proﬁt. They will say with
Pliny, “ Discunt periculis nostris et per experientiam mortem
agunt.”*‘

Nor is it only for the sake of acquiring knowledge, but
also for that of imparting it, that medical men are believed
to sacriﬁce their patients’ interests. The poor sufferers who
accept the charity of the public hospitals do so on the con-
dition of allowing the students, as well as the doctors, to
inspect their cases. But it is plain as daylight that this
condition becomes morally abrogated when the patient’s
recovery would be postponed or imperilled by the distreSsing
circumstances of exposure and bedside lecturing. Such
limitation, however, is rarely, if ever, regarded, and decent
women, afﬂicted with some of the most dreadful diseases of
humanity, ﬁnd, in these so-called charitable institutions,

9* Dr. Burney Yeo, writing in the Medical Times, May 17, 1884, contrasted
the Regular Physician with those Irregular people who only aim at curing
disease. “How different,” he remarks, “is the aim of the physician! He
works not for the one, but for the many; not for the individual, but for
humanity!” May we not reasonably ask, whether the “one,” the “indi-
vidual,” who pays the physician the fee for this large-aimed work, is quite
aware that his recovery is not the aim of his adviser, but rather the beneﬁt of
humanity on the whole by the advancement of science at his ewpense .7

 




 

 

 

24 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

moral tortures of outraged modesty added to their bodily
anguish. No doctor can be dull enough to ignore the fact
that the feelings of a woman with a crowd of curious. young
students round her bed of agony, must be almost worse than
death, and must lessen her chances of recovery, if any such
there be. But when does one of these teachers and guides
of youth spare the shame—tortured woman at the cost of Mr.
Bob Sawyer’s disappointment ?

Again, patients are sacriﬁced not merely at the shrine of
knowledge, but on the anvil of manipulative skill. That
operations are performed for the sake either of acquiring
such skill, or keeping the surgeon’s hand well “in ”—as
well as of earning enormous fees—we have the best
evidence. The late eminent and honest surgeon, Mr. Skey,
openly denounced this abuse, and said, “A man who has
the reputation of a splendid operator is ever a just object of
suspicion.” Probably every reader will recollect cases where
a leg or arm has been amputated, and after a time it was
found that the frightful sacriﬁce might have been spared.*
These are the men who, as Tennyson says, are

Happier in using the knife than in trying to save the limb.

When we think of the cruelty—as bad as that of any tyrant
of old—of reducing a man or women to the miserable con-
dition of a one-armed or one-legged creature, or of rendering
a young wife for ever excluded from the joys of motherhood,
and of the selﬁshness which can make a surgeon, for. the
sake of either his skill or his fee, recommend an operation
which might have been avoided, we have some. measure of the
hardness of heart which is at least possible in the profession,
according to the testimony of one of its‘ most honoured
members. Let anyone who questions the truth of these

9* A pair of the most beautiful eyes known to the writer were only preserved
in the handsome head to which they belong, by the refusal of the young owner
to proﬁt by the urgent recommendation of one of the ﬁrst oculists of the day
to allow him to relieve her of one splendid orb, at the moderate cost, perhaps,
of £50 or £80.

 




 

AND ITS MORALITY. . 25

 

remarks examine the correspondence and leading articles
thereon which appeared in the Liverpool Courier, for August
and September, 1886, concerning the 111 operations on
women performed in the Shaw Street Hospital during the
previous year. The Lancet, speaking of the trial of one of
the doctors concerned (prosecuted by the indignant husband
of one of the patients), remarked, “ The interest of the trial
lies in the question whether the frequent and almost "indis-
criminate use” of the awful operation in question, on
women “snﬂering from diseases which are not fatal and are
often only trivial, is justiﬁable ? The highest authorities in
this country have justly condemned the frequent performance
of this operation ”—(ovariotomy) .

And here we must recall to those who forget it, that this
recklessness and pitilessness of doctors was betrayed forty
years ago, when they permitted Burke and Hare to bring
them corpses for anatomical study, which were well-nigh
unmistakably those of foully murdered men. If this were
possible among those to whom the “Burkers” brought
their victims, it is idle to doubt that others may amputate
limbs which might be saved, or detain interesting “cases” for
years on beds of pain,——all in “ the sacred interests of science.”

2. It is not only for the sake of science that the interests
of patients are believed to be sacriﬁced by medical men.
The pecuniary interests, either of individual doctors or of
the profession at large, seem to outweigh such considerations
in numberless cases.”6 To take a simple example. What are

it Here is what one of the organs of the profession, with refreshing frankness
not to say cynicism, says on this head, discussing the question of Notiﬁcation
of Diseases :—“ Let us not pretend to more virtue for medical men than for
other classes of practitioners of similar social standing 3 and let us, therefore,
not forget that a very numerous section of our profession will certainly not
if they can help it, do anything which will interfere with their own interests
or practice. With such practitioners business is business. If the notiﬁcation
fee is half-a-crown, they will notify for the ‘purpose of earning it ; but if it
pays them Sixpence more to pretend not to recognise a case of infectious
disease, they certainly will be very slow to ﬁnd out what in reality is wrong
with the patient.”—Meclical Press and Circular, January 10, 1883.

 




 

 

 

26 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

the motives of those luminaries who recommend all the bad
wines and sickly beverages which we see advertised every
day in the newspapers ? A more certain way of promoting
disease than the recommendation of some of this rubbish

is scarcely conceivable. A famous American surgeon was

offered £1,000 to puff one of these drinks (by no means the
worst) and act as its usher to the New York market. This.

doctor, being honest, declined the bribe. Are we to consider

that others do not entertain similar scruples ‘2

The same question may be asked respecting all the
remedies which by turns come into fashion. We look
back with amused disgust at what doctors have done in

times past in the way of recommending useless and noxious.

nostrums one after another; but we forget that they are
always at the same tricks, and that every year sees some
new and costly fad of medicine solemnly adopted by all the

lights of the profession, as surely as a new cut in dresses is

adopted by the milliners ; and just as certainly next year
quietly dropped into oblivion.

The reckless multiplication of expensive prescriptions is

another “bone” which patients with limited means may
well pick with their doctors. Did any one ever rally from
an illness, or clear a room after a death, without ﬁnding at
least twenty half-used bottles of draughts and embrocations
and gargles, and as many boxes of pills on the table ? The
entente cordiale between the physician and the chemist, and
perhaps certain percentages, are not unconnected with these
“ untasted relics of the feast.”

A much more serious matter, however, is the question,
How far do medical men generally really and honestly
‘strive to cure their well-paying patients? How far do they
deceive them about their ailments, and give them advice
which, instead of restoring them to health and vigour, is
calculated to keep them on the sick list? Medicine can, at
best, not do much; some of us think it can do very little,

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 27

 

 

 

 

and the great new sect of “ Natural Doctors” in Germany
are beginning to show cause for trusting nature to herself
alone, without drugs or blisters or phlebotomy, merely
securing for her the best conditions of quiet and air,
warmth or coolness, at our disposal. But assuming that
medicines can really cure disease, how painful is the doubt
whether the doctor whom we employ to use them for our
beneﬁt may turn them to our hurt! To be robbed by the
policeman, or to have our premises burnt down by the
watchman, is a small vexation compared to being kept ill
by the man we pay to make us well. But does this disaster
never befall us, though, perhaps, we rarely recognise the
humiliating fact? We have all read the mutual accusations
of making business for themselves, which the lawyers have
been bandying about; and we remember the good story of
the old solicitor who received with horror from his son and
partner (left in charge of his office during a trip abroad) the
intelligence that the foolish yOung man had brought to a
sudden conclusion a great Chancery suit which had provided
an income for the family for ten years back, and might have
done the same for ten years more. Similar grim jokes con-
cern every profession and every trade. The difference in
their application to the medical profession is, that much
closer interests are involved, and the fraud practised is inﬁ-
nitely more cruel.

Let us consider what are the presumptions against the
doctors, since of actual evidence, from the nature of the
case, there can be little. Let it be granted that in cases
of febrile and acute diseases there is reason to hope
that they do their best to effect a cure. What of other and
chronic diseases? What of the worst of all,——Lunacy, for
example ‘2 Does the mad-doctor of the private asylum, who
makes £200 or £300 a year by a wealthy patient, really lay
himself out, with all his skill, to heal the poor bewildered
brain? Does he never allow the patient to excite him-

 

 




 

 

‘28 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

self before the visitors, so as to bring on accesses of
his disorder, and conﬁrm the belief that he still requires
incarceration when he might be set at liberty? A clear-
sighted author talks of “ unconscious bias produced by
pecuniary interests ; ” and, truly, human nature being
what it is, nobody can think it otherwise than a mis-
fortune that the interest of a physician in cases of such
extreme doubt and delicacy should always be on one side,
and the recovery of the patient on the other. The Press
has pronounced again and again that lunatics ought only
to be conﬁned in public asylums, where the physicians
should receive ﬁxed salaries, and a bonus on recoveries,—not
payment by the case. By such judgments they have tacitly
avowed the belief that this most grievous of the woes of
humanity is left, by the cupidity of the doctors, to press on
.many a soul from which it might be lifted off. To quote
the direct evidence on the subject would involve endless
controversy. It is well known to all interested in the
subject.

And what of other chronic diseases—neuralgia, and gout,
and heart—disease, and headaches, and all the nameless woes
of rich and feminine mortality ? ‘We laugh at the legend of
the physicians of the Chinese Emperor, whose salaries are
stopped when their celestial patron is ill, and only run again
when he is restored to health. But though we cannot copy
this ingenious plan from the Flowery Land, we most of us ..
believe that out of our twenty thousand doctors there are
not a few (and they, by the hypothesis, among the wealthy
.and prosperous) who are far from insensible to the tempta-
tion of keeping a well-paying patient for months and years
in a state of valetudinarianism. When we see a peevish
old man always in the gout, or a ﬁne lady always stretched
on her sofa smelling wade-Cologne, we may safely look
out of window for the carriage of the unctuous doctor,
whose yearly income would be considerably lessened by

 

 




 

 

FM

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 29

the restoration of the gentleman to the moors, and of the.
lady to the duties of her household and nursery. If we ask
one of these poor medical piéces dc rész'stmzce why he or she-
does not at least try fresh air, or riding exercise, or Turkish
baths, it is singular how invariably they have been told by
dear Dr. Hushaby that any such eﬁorts would involve:
deadly danger to their “ hearts.”*

A medical treatise, intended only for the profession, con--
tains these significant words :—“I f cure be an object in the
case, then” so-and-so is to be done. Apparently there are:
cases where cure is not an object ! Plumbers are popularly
believed never to mend one hole in the leads of a house.
Without making another. The gentlemen whom we call in
to tinker our internal pipes and gutters, it is to be feared
sometimes adopt similar tactics. Let us suppose a true.
speciﬁc remedy found for gout, neuralgia, or dyspepsia,
which, by cheap and easy private application, would make.
every patient suffering from those diseases as sound as a
trivet. What welcome would that blessed remedy receive
from the medical Profession? When the news of its exist--
ence became irrepressible, how many rich patients would be
assured that, for their particular case, a trial of it might
entail fatal consequences ?

These terrible charges have not only been made by out--
siders and satirists from Moliére downwards, but have been
repeated with ﬁtting grief and indignation quite recently by
honest and honourable members of the profession itself,
proving that they by no means concern only a past order of
things. Here is what Dr. Russell Reynolds, F.R.S., said in
1881, in an address to the Medical Society of University

9* To the personal knowledge of the present writer, three ladies, after
periods varying from six to fourteen years of the sofa, were roused to break
their silken chains, and suddenly found they could get up and live like other
people. In one case ‘the poor dame, having renounced her doctor and all

his ordinances, after long childlessness, became the joyful mother of a healthy
little babe.

 

 




?80 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

College (to the Hospital of which College he is Consulting
Physician), and which address was published at the time in
the British Medical Journal :—

“ There is meddling and muddling of a most disreputable
sort, and the patients” (he is speaking of women) “grow
sick of it and give it all up and get well; or they go from
bad to worse.” . . . . “Physicians have coined names for
triﬂing maladies if they have not invented them and have
set fashions of disease. They have treated or maltreated
their patients by endless examinations, applications, and the
like, and this sometimes for months, sometimes for years,
and then, when by some accident the patient has been
removed from their care, she has become quite well and
there has been no more need for caustic,” &c., &c.

And here is a still more horrible accusation in the same
Address against those doctors whose specialism is the
diseases of men.

“Are there not some who prey upon the sense of shame
and extort money for needless operations and worthless
drugs, holding in terror over their victims the knowledge of
facts that have been conﬁded to them? The consulting
room—as sacred as the confessional—is degraded to the
lowest depths of degradation when it is used or abused as
the engine of terror or extortion. But yet bills are incurred
and bills are drawn and Jews are sought for in order to meet
the so-called obligations of these sufferers. The surgeon
has the power in his hand, and he knows it, and wields it
often with a cruelty which no words of mine can utter or
sufﬁciently condemn.”———British Medical Journal, Oct. 15th,
1881, p. 621.

And here is what Dr. Clifford Allbut said, in delivering
the Gulstonian Lecture for 1884, at the Royal College of
Physicians. After referring with compassion to the suffer-
ings of women, who, he believes, “feel pain more than men
do,” he mentioned the “ morbid chains,” the “ mental abase-

 

 

 




 

AND ITS MORALITY. 81

 

meat” into which fall “the ﬂock of women who lie under
the wand of the Gynaecologist ” (specialist of women’s dis—
eases); “the women who are caged up in London back
drawing-rooms, and visited almost daily, their brave and
active spirits broken under a false (I !) belief in the presence
of a secret and over-.mastering local malady; and the best
years of their lives honoured only by a distressful victory
over pain.” (Italics ours.)-—Meclieal Press, March 19, 1884.

3. Beside these matters, wherein the individual doctor’s
proﬁts are in one scale and the patient’s in another, there
is a still more important class of cases, wherein the interests
of the profession are on one side and those of the public on
the other. In these latter there is reason to apprehend that
a tacit trades-unionism exists among all medical men,
whereby the interests of the laity are systematically sacri-
ﬁced to those of the profession.

As a ﬁrst example of this trades-unionism, let us take the
case of Consultations of doctors, wherein ‘it is obvious that
some well-understood bye—law forbids the physician called
in consultation to allow a suspicion to go abroad that his
colleague, originally in charge of the case, has made a blunder
and brought the patient to death’s door. Proverbially,
“‘ doctors differ,” and agreement under other circumstances
is so rare that it may be dismissed from calculation. But
let great Dr. A., from London, be summoned to Cornwall
or Northumberland to consult with Dr. B., a country
practitioner of respectable standing, about a case of im-
minent peril, and what becomes of the proverbial “differ
ence ”? Dr. A., with a solemnity which must taX his
gravity and that of his colleague like the meeting of two
augurs of old, assures the heart-broken mother, or wife soon
to be a widow, that “ everything has been done in the very
best and wisest way possible, that the patient could not be
in better hands than those of Dr. 13.,” and, ﬁnally (as if to
save the appearance of utter inutility of the costly visit), that

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

82 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ the patient may now take a second tablespoonful of the
same mixture as before.” When this solemn farce has been
played, Dr. A., who has eaten an excellent luncheon in the
house of mourning, presses the hand of the miserable wife,
pockets his magnificent fee, steps into the carriage waiting
to carry him back to the station, and reads on his way up to
town a charming article on that intense sympathy of medical
men for suffering humanity which “makes them ready to
sacriﬁce hecatombs of brutes to save the smallest pain of a

,,

man.

What has that smooth—spoken doctor done ? In the sight
of God he has told a shameful and cruel lie, and has taken
money from the very victim of his falsehood. He has.
betrayed the trust of loving and simple hearts, and left
them to break, when with a word he might have done what

in him lay to save their earthly treasure.

If doctors will do this cruel and wicked thing for their
trades-union, what will they not do likewise? And who
amongst the readers of this paper can recall any case where
they have acted otherwise, and spoken the truth; except
when the doctor, perhaps, whose patient they visited,
happened to be of so humble a class, that the great man
could venture to treat him as he pleased ? *

Let us, for heaven’s sake, know where we stand. Will
the doctors tell us truth beside the sick-beds of our friends,

3“ An instructive episode, throwing light on the matter, is that of Sir
William Gull’s evidence on a trial, some years ago, of a Guy‘s HOSpital nurse.
The Court asked Sir William Gull, “ In your opinion, should a skilful physician
have known that brain disease existed?” Sir William replied, “ There I
must be careful. There is, no doubt, great difﬁculty in recognising brain
disease at that stage . . . but I cannot doubt that suSpicion ought to have
existed.” Later on, he refused to say, though pressed by Dr. Pavy’s counsel,
that suspicion was very often incorrect. For this breach of medical etiquette,
Sir William Gull, a man at the very summit of the profession, was actually
complained against by Dr. Pavy (the physician who might have entertained
the “ suspicions”) before the College of Physicians, and the President and
Censors, having solemnly deliberated on the matter, pronounced judgment on
the 12th January, 1881, to the following effect : That they “ do not deem the

 

g...—

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

“-

 

AND ITS MORALITY. ’ 33

 

or will they not? If they will not, then let us be relieved
from the monstrous cost and heart—breaking disappointments
consequent on summoning them to consultations.

This question of the secret understanding and trades-union
bye-laws among medical men rises to the level of political
importance when we note that our coroner's are now so
generally taken from the profession. The particular duty
of a coroner and his jury in scores of cases is to deal with
charges directly concerning doctors, and to decide whether
they have administered wrong medicines, or connived at
child-murder before or after birth, or neglected to attend to
a dying pauper patient, or discharged a patient from a
hospital who ought to have been retained, or vaccinated in
such a manner as to entail death. It is essential we should
know what are the rules of behaviour for a medical coroner
under such circumstances according to medical morality.
What will his professional conscience require him to do as
regards his colleague? Is he to act simply as an honest
coroner in the interest of the public, drag every case fully
to light, and send such as seem to deserve it to trial? Or
is he to screen his medical brother by every available artiﬁce
and all the inﬂuence over the jury at his command, and
never let any scandal come to light or any case go into
court which he can by any means smother and suppress ?

Reference to another evidence of the extent of the trade-

eharaeter of the evidence which a member of the College has given on oath in -

a- Court of Justice at proper subject to investigate when the Court has expressed
itself satisﬁed in regard to the truthfulness and sincerity of the witness,” &e.

In reviewing this decision, which, truly to the non-medical mind, appears a
matter of course (the converse sentence being inconceivable), the B’I'tt‘ish
Medical Journal (Jan. 29, p. 167), says—“ The evidence given upon oath in
such cases is in the highest degree privileged . . . But it must be a very
delicate matter for a chartered body, such as the College of Physicians, having
certain powers entrusted by law to its Board of Censors, to deal with a com-
plaint against evidence given upon oath by one of its fellows in a Court of
Law.” Very “delicate ” indeed! But What if the evidence were not
“ privileged,” and only given at the bedside of a dying man, in return for a fee
of a hundred guineas ?

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

unionism among medical men has been already made in
speaking of the unanimity wherewith the profession as a
body, having itself very little concern with Vivisection, has
supported the handful of physiologists in their demand for
a “free vivisecting table.” The memorial against Lord
Carnarvon’s Bill, presented to the Home Ofﬁce, on the
10th July, 1876, was signed by 8,000 medical men, and
presented by such a crowd as never before invaded a Mini—
sterial ofﬁce, except, perhaps, in a revolution; and all this
excitement was drawn forth at a moment’s notice”6 Pre-
vious to the manipulation of their wire—pullers there were
numerous medical men ready to denounce the abuses of

the practice. Sixty of them at ﬁrst signed the original

Memorial to the Jermyn Street Society, and before the
Royal Commission, eighteen of them gave the opinion that
the practice ought to be placed under legislative restraint.
The Bill introduced by their ordinary Parliamentary re-
presentative, Dr. Lyon Playfair, was entirely in the same
spirit. But the stupid cry was raised that any restriction
on the cutting up of live animals would be an affront to
their profession (which had very cheerfully submitted to a
similar restriction in cutting up dead menl), and from
that moment there has been a closing of the ranks, from
which only a few brave and self-respecting men have had
the courage to come forth.

The Vaccination controversy is one on which it would be
idle here to enter; but if the reader bear in mind the fact
that between 1840 and 1886 the doctors received £2,508,287
out of the rates for vaccination, independently of private
practice’r (See Reports of Local Government Board), the

it For a full account of the attitude of the Medical Profession on this
subject, see a paper by Miss Frances Power Cobbe in the Contemporary

Review, “Mr. Lowe and the Vivisection Act,” reprinted by the Victoria
Street Society.

"I“ How great the value of this private practice of Vaccination must be may
be guessed from the fact that on the occasion of a panic at Eton some years

 

 

 




 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 85

 

zealotry and cruelty wherewith this medical “rite” is upheld,
will scarcely escape the suspicion of the before-named “ un-
conscious bias produced by pecuniary interest.” Baptism
was never urged by those who believed that it could save
Souls from perdition, with such relentlessness as Vaccination
is insisted upon by men whose “ cardinal doctrine,” as Mr.
Shorter says, “ is Salvation by Filth,” and who insist that
it can save Bodies from small-poxft‘

Considering the success of J enner’s discovery (indisputable,
at all events, so far as affording business to doctors is con-
cerned), it is not astonishing that Pasteur’s similar, but
exceedingly cruel, invention should have been hailed with
rapture by the mouthpieces of the profession. The prospect
of Pasteur Institutes rising up on all sides, each with its
well-paid staff of inoculators and vivisectors, has seemed
inﬁnitely more attractive than the simple and inexpensive
Buisson treatment of hydrophobia by Vapour baths; albeit,
the latter has been known to cure the actually—developed
disease, while Pasteur already counts more than 40 deaths
as the upshot of his “ preventive” measures.

ago, a single doctor pocketed £400 for vaccinating 800 scholars. Is it
wonderful that we should read in the British Medical Journal (Oct. 23, 1886)
such sentences as the following : “ Dr. Bruce Low is of opinion that some
system of compulsory re-vaccination should be adopted to protect the nation
———and suggests that all children leaving school should. be ro-vaccinated at the
public cost” ?

3* The trades-unionism, which commands at once the doctors who register
deaths, the doctors who proﬁt by compulsory vaccination, and the coroners
who direct the juries in cases of alleged death from vaccination, is amusingly
illustrated by such facts as the following, quoted by Mr. Peter Taylor in
Parliament : Mr. Henry Hay, Health Ofﬁcer to the Aston Union, Birmingham,
writes: “ A death from the ﬁrst cause (erysipelas after vaccination) occurred
not long ago in my practice, and although I had not vaccinated the child, yet
in my desire to preserve vaccination from reproach, I omitted all mention of it
in my certiﬁcate of death.” Again, the value of a medical coroner was
exempliﬁed at Leeds, where an inquest was held on a child who had died of the
results of vaccination. The coroner declined to accept that statement as {L
verdict, and told the jury “ there was no such thing known to the law as death
from vaccination,” and they must bring in “died by the visitation of God.”

 




 

 

36 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

 

Beyond the demand for unrestricted Vivisection, and for
compulsory Vaccination, and re-vaccination, we now hear
(1886) that the public will be taxed, if the doctors can manage
it, to support an enormous corps of dentists who are to have
the supervision of all the teeth of all the children in “ all the
public schools” of England, including the Beformatories
and Training-Ships. Such at least is the programme of
Mr. Fisher, read with great applause at the recent meeting
of the British Dental Association at Dundee. Dr. Alderson
goes further, and, as President of the West London
Chirurgical Society, advocated at its Meeting, Oct. 8, 1886,
“the principle of ‘Health Assurance,’ 7:.8., the practice of
paying medical men annually, ill or well, a certain ﬁxed
payment ”——“the appointment of pathologists in every
district, and, likewise, of School Visitors and School
Board Examiners, from the ranks of medicine.”~——Lmzcet,
Oct. 30.

All this, however, is of small account compared to another
matter whereupon difference of opinion exists among medical
men, and a few of them have honourably distinguished
themselves by denouncing the abominable oppression. As a
profession, however, the guilt and shame of the atrocious
Contagious Diseases Acts lie at the door of the medical men
of England, and it is their gross materialism, their utter
disregard for human souls when lodged in the bodies of the
despised and wretched, which made such legislation possible,
and supported it for long years till the conscience of the
lay public swept it away in disgust.

4. And now let us turn away from this last and darkest
charge against medical men, and ask what truth there
may be in the boast that they are the best friends of
women, and that women may rightly trust them with
grateful and unhesitating conﬁdence? To the fallen
we have seen they have gone out of their way to add a
yet deeper degradation to their miserable fate; nor may they

 

 

 

 




AND ITS MORALITY. 87

 

boast that they can set against this any effort on their part

to extend relief or comfort of any sort to well-conducted
women of the working classes. It has been left for a woman-
doctor (Dr. Frances Hoggan) publicly to claim, though
not yet, alas! to obtain, for such humble women their
rightful share of the rates in the erection of resting-places
for themselves and their young children as they traverse
London. The male doctors have known all the sufferings
and disease entailed 011 poor mothers by the lack of such
temporary shelters, yet never have troubled themselves to
say one word on the subject. Such are the doctors to
women of the humbler classes. What are they to ladies?
Undoubtedly they know their interests too well to fail to
ingratiate themselves with them. But for real help what
have they to show ? Did they ever make any serious effort
to stop the senseless and health-destroying fashion of
women’s dress, the reckless dissipation and late hours which
have sent thousands of thoughtless girls to their graves?
A few Eli-like words of mild advice was all. they ever uttered
against these deadly and wicked follies.

The case was reversed, however, when there was a move-
ment for the Higher Education of women, and it became
obvious that one of the aims of that education would be
to ﬁt lady doctors to enter the market as competitors with
the men who had hitherto monopolised the proﬁts of the

profession. Then, indeed, the doctors grew earnest and

made a grand discovery—namely, that mental labour is
peculiarly injurious to the weaker sex—much worse, it
would appear, for their feeble constitutions, than any
amount of ball-going and dissipation; and. that, in short,
a term at Girton was worse than five London seasons.
Women would perish, and the human race cease to mul-
tiply, if female intellects ascended from gossip to Greek.
This spectre is nearly laid after ten years’ exorcism, but
women cannot forget to what order of men they owe its

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

88 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION

 

humiliating introduction; and, Dr. Withers Moore has
this year (1886) taken pains to revive their memory of the
fact.

But, in spite of these solemn warnings, the ladies insisted
on reading both Greek and Latin, and eke all the learned
treatises on anatomy and physiology and chemistry where-
with the intellects of doctors are supposed to be as full as
is a doll of bran. Then came the tug of war! Should
ladies be admitted, ﬁrst to medical tuition and then to
medical degrees, and licence to practise? The remem-
brance is fresh in all our minds of the struggle in Edin-
burgh and elsewhere, and the chivalrous conduct of the
doctors and medical students on the occasion. Never,
indeed, has there been a more absurd public manifestation
of trades-unionism than this effort to keep ladies out of the
lucrative profession of physicians, and crowd them into
ill-paid one of nurses—for which (they were assured with
the most eager iteration) they were specially and solely
qualiﬁedﬁl“ At last Nemesis sent 'a bevy of lady nurses to
Guy’s Hospital; and the doctors will probably henceforward
ﬁnd reasons why they should no more be nurses than
physicians.

5. We pass lastly to the outlook for the public in future
years supposing the ambition of the medical profession to
proceed at its present rate of growth for another half-cen-
tury. It is obvious that Acts of Parliament, of which the
Compulsory Vaccination Act and the Contagious Diseases
Acts are the preludes, will then be multiplied till it may be
hard to name the department of human existence—birth,
marriage, education, employment, sickness, or death—in
which a doctor’s certiﬁcate, a doctor’s attendance, in short,
a doctor’s well-paid sanction, shall not have become impera-

* For a history of the long struggle of the lady doctors and the behaviour
of their opponents, see an article in the Contemporary Review by Right Hon.
James Stansfeld, M.P.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 89

 

tive, and the power of the profession to intrude and trammel
and interfere and enforce its exactions rendered practically
boundless. As a single specimen of what is already con-
templated in this way, we need only refer to the horrible
proposal to compel parents, children, husbands, and wives to
submit to be separated from their beloved ones in cases
of infectious disease, and to send them to be treated at the
discretion of a medical man. The day when this atrocious
scheme is legalised, either in Switzerland (where it
made some progress through the Legislature), or here in
England, will be “ the beginning, of the end” of all family
happiness. Cowardice is always cruel, but the cruelty of
this proposal to tear asunder the holiest ties in the hour
when they ought to be closest drawn, is a surprising revela—
tion of the poltroonery to which we are advancing in our
abject terror of disease. Better would it be that pestilence
should rage through the land, and we should die of “the
visitation of God,” than that we should seek safety by
the abandonment of our nearest and dearest in the hour of
mortal trial, and leave them to the tender mercies of the
men who. could call on us for such a sacriﬁce of affection
and duty?“

Space forbids that we should proceed further now .in
pointing out the many lines of legislative interference

*3 And while the laity are patiently listening to this vile project, the men
who propose it are themselves running about with the utmost carelessness
between infected and non-infected patients. Are doctors, forsooth, of differ-
ent ﬂesh and blood from other men that infection does not cling to them
and they cannot convey it, since no one thinks of them as the ever-active
disseminators of zymotic diseases all over the country? They have never
been required (as they ought to be) to abandon one or other half of their
practice, and conﬁne themselves either to infectious or non-infectious cases.
They are not even bound by any custom of their own to take the trouble to
go home and bathe or change their specially dangerous cloth clothes before
they pass from a small-pox patient’s death-bed to the bedside of a woman
giving birth to a child! They must be asked for no such sacriﬁce of proﬁt
or time! but they call on us to sacriﬁce what is inﬁnitely more precious—our
fondest affections and the most sacred duties which Providence has laid on
us between the cradle and the grave.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40 THE M'EDICAL PROFESSION

 

which the medical profession is sure to try, and which it
will behove the public to watch with closest jealousy. It
must sufﬁce if we have here succeeded in placing before
the reader some solid grounds for accepting the following
conclusions :—-

1. That the proper beneﬁcent objects of the medical
profession are being supplanted by the ardour of purely
scientiﬁc investigation.

2. That the pecuniary interests of the profession fre-
quently override the interests of patients.

3. That a trades-unionism exists in the profession which
militates against the proper performance of the duties of
medical men in various public and‘private ofﬁces.

4. That the profession has proved doubly treacherous to
women.

5. That the further increase of the power of the profes-
sion holds out a serious threat to the personal liberties of all
the lay members of the community.

Should these conclusions seem just, it will remain for the
reader henceforth to watch wakefully and resist steadfastly
the ambitious advances of this formidable order, and (as
reforms rarely proceed from within) to bring public feeling
to bear from the outside world to recall medical men to their
proper beneﬁcent and disinterested work. There is yet
reason. to hope that by such means the practice of the
Healing Art may become really and in truth, what it ought
unquestionably to be, ‘but is now only in the language of
conventional adulation—a “Noble Profession.”

 

[To the ﬁrst issue of this paper the following remarks
were appended by the Editor of the Modem Review]

It is not without a grave sense of responsibility that we
publish the above article from the pen of an esteemed con-

 

 




 

 

AND ITS MORALITY. 41

tributor, who prefers to withhold his signature. Our
contributor has laid a heavy indictment against a profession
that has ever been jealous of its honourable name. Yet our
duty has seemed to us very plain. Without committing
ourselves to every view or statement to be found in
this elaborate criticism, we hold with our contributor
that public opinion has been too timid in its attitude
towards the great Profession of medicine, and that it
is of vital moment that it should become both informed
and pronounced. Hitherto a silent convention has pro-
tected the Physician and the Surgeon from the wholesome
play of criticism. Language which has been common with
regard to lawyers, and still more common with regard to
clergymen, has been held a mark of ill-breeding if applied
to doctors. It has been essential on the platform and in
the magazines to allude to the latter as this noble or honour-
able profession, while their legal and clerical compeers have
been subject to every! kind of derogatory reference. Now
few will deny that criticism has done the clergy a world of
good. Why should it do their medical brethren any harm ?
All sweeping charges against a community, however care-
fully guarded, must appear unjust. Nothing could seem
more unfair than the assaults of Jesus on the Pharisees of
his time. Many of them were upright and pious men. But
the better individuals had not stood out against the worse
or made protest against their self-seeking and hypocrisy.
So came the condemnation which the Galilean pronounced to
be divinely just. It is so in other cases. There are the best
of men among the physicians and surgeons of England. But
all are held together with tremendous force, by what some
will call a ﬁne esprit d6 corps, and others apernicious spirit of
trades-unionism. Hence they must be criticised as a class.
The parallel between the physician and the priest is close.
In spite of the temporary revival of a sacerdotal party in the
Church of England, the people of this country, broadly

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

42 THE MEDICAL PROFESSION, ETC.

W.

 

speaking, have made up their minds that the inﬂuence of
the priest in the home is inimical to morality; and the
pretensions of the spiritual adviser to enjoy the exclusive
conﬁdence of others men’s wives and daughters can amongst
us never be very widely revived. The power of priesthood
is broken for ever. But in the doctors we have a class
of men who are more and more gaining the conﬁdence
of the boudoir, and scrupulously honourable as multitudes
of these men are, this growing social fact is pregnant
with perils precisely parallel to those which are
generally recognised among Protestants in the hold of
priests upon the home. Nay, if there remains any truth
in the proverb, Clem: médecz'ns, 2m athée (and its truth
increases rather than declines), the danger from the private
medical director exceeds that from the spiritual.

But peril from the assumption of the ofﬁce of private
adviser on the part of the physician demands consideration
most of all in the case of our youths. Any one who will
make a few casual inquiries will be amazed to discover the
frequency with which medical men of high repute—men
who are admitted to the friendship of good and unsuspecting
women—offer counsel to young men and even to boys
which strikes at the root of allmorality, and, indeed, can
proceed from nothing else than scepticism concerning the
very possibility of morality itselfﬁ‘ We speak what we
know not of one, but of many, and what no medical man
will deny, though many a medical man will revolt from the
action of his fellow practitioners as vehemently as we
ourselves. What we ask of these purer spirits in the healing
fraternity is that they will speak out on this and other
matters of professional practice, and condemn their less
honourable colleagues with no faltering tongue—ED.

9* The Bishop of Bedford, Speaking on this subject at a Meeting of the
Social Purity Alliance, May 3rd, 1882, said : “ I know what doctors say, and I
here publicly protest against the terrible thing that is often said by doctors to
young men—that sin is good for their health. I say God forgive those who

have said it.’ ’

 

x ‘ «ymh

 

 

w“ l

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 




