GARY HART

COMMlTTEES:
COLORADO

ARMED SERVICES
ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLEC WORKS
BUDGET

Wt'aiieb ﬁiaies gaginaie

'WASHINGTON. o.c. 20510

February 13, 1984

Ms. Ester Lin Black
525 Maxwell St.

Charleston, West Virginia 25311

Dear Ms. Black:

"Thank “for writing about your views on the steeleaw leghold
traps and the treatment of laboratory animals. I apprec1ate
hearing from you.

As you may know, Representative Long has 1ntroduced legisw
lation to prohibit the importation and interstate shipment of
furs, leather and related by— pronucts from states and countEies

 

 

.wmvo-WA.

that have not banned the use, sale and manufacture 0f steel jaw _
“leghold traps. No com-anion bill has:been introduced in the”w” ?
Senate but I Will continue to watch t 15 issue Wclosely.

mwtu' E! I.

 

 

 

Currently, my staff and I are reviewing several legislative
proposals dealing with laboratory animals. I understand and
share your concern that animal testing be minimized, and in those

cases when it is necessary to protect human health, that it be
carried out responsibly.

I'm glad to have the benefit of your perspecti.ve and I ll

keep your views in mind as the Senate considers this and related
legislation.

Thanks again for taking time to contact me. I hope you'll
continue to stay in touch on these and other important matters.

Sincerely, ‘
<:::::;EE;;9M ’4/fiy’
Gar Hart ambit ﬁﬂmo

 




COMMITTEES:
GARY HART
COLORA°° ARMED SERVICES ‘
ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
BUDGET

gCnifeb ﬁfafes $enafe

WASHI NGTON, D.C. 20510

April 14, 1982

Dear Friend:

As promised in my last letter, from time to time I'll get in
touch with you to update Congressional action on the Clean Air
Act. Two new developments have prompted me to write you.

First, the good news. The Senate Environment Committee is
proceeding in a way that holds hope for enacting legislation which
will reform the existing Act rather than weaken it. The first
major step was near unanimous passage, late last month, of a com—
prehensive amendment I proposed to reform current requirements for
new plants and factories in areas with cleaner air than existing
national standards (PSD program). Fifteen of sixteen Senators on
the Committee voted in favor of the amendment, indicating it may
be possible to build a bipartisan Senate consensus for a bill
preserving our nation's ten year commitment to clean air. For
your information, I've enclosed a copy of a statement on the PSD
amendment. Later this spring, the Committee will take action on
acid rain, percent reduction, hazardous pollutants, state implementation,
and nonattainment provisions of the current law.

The unity demonstrated by the Committee on the controversial
PSD issue is vital because of the bad news I have to report. The
House Subcommittee on Health and the Environment recently approved
a completely unacceptable revision of the Clean Air Act sponsored
by Congressmen Luken, Dingell, and others. Should the full House
approve legislation similar to this, I and the other Senate conferees
will need to be united in our insistence on a final bill closely
resembling the Senate version. Otherwise, we would be far better
off with no bill and continuation of existing law.

Several of the provisions approved by the House Subcommittee
would be particularly harmful to Colorado. These provisions include:

relaxation of all car and truck emission standards;

repeal of the requirement that cars sold in high altitude
areas meet national emission standards by 1984;

repeal of the requirement for inspection and maintenance
—— the most effective tool we have for controlling pollution

from cars; -

complete relaxation of the PSD program including weakening
both the pollution control requirements for new factories
and weakening of protection for national park and wilderness

areas; and‘

 




repeal of Federal sanctions which have been effective in
Colorado and other states in bringing about compliance
with national health based clean air standards.

As you can see, this bill would go much too far in weakening
the Act, making it difficult to reach a Senate/House agreement
necessary to enact an effective law this year.

I appreciate your continued interest in my efforts to reform
rather than weaken the existing Clean Air Act. Please let me know
if you have any reactions or suggestions on this and other issues.
I look forward to working with you on the Clean Air Act in coming
months.

Sincerely,

Enclosure

 




GARY HART COMMITTEES:
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
a] Cnifeh ﬁfafeg ﬁenafe

BUDGET
WASH! NGTON. 0.6. 20510

February 11, 1982

Ms. Shirley Sheffer
12320 Manati Ave.
Warm Mineral Spgs., Florida 33596

Dear Ms. Sheffer:

Thanks for sharing your thoughts about reauthorization of
the Endangered Species Act. It‘s good to hear from you.

As you know, the 1973 law directed Federal agencies to take
steps to prevent the extinction of plant and wildlife species.
Under the Act, the Interior and Commerce Departments were vested
with the authority to decide which species should be listed as en—
dangered or threatened. Interior's Fish and Wildlife Service
handles land species while Commerce' 5 National Marine Fisheries
Service handles most marine species.

The Senate Environmental Pollution Subcommittee held over—
sight hearings on the reauthorization in early December and has
scheduled hearings on specific legislative proposals for March of
this year. I generally support the Act in its current form and
voted for the last amendments to the Act agreed upon in 1979.'

It's helpful to have the benefit of your thoughts on this
and I'll certainly keep them in mind when the full Committee has
a chance to discuss the Endangered Species Act later this year.

Again, thanks for taking time to write. I hope you'll
continue to keep in touch in the coming months.

Sincerely,

g/a/We/

ry H rt

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




GARY HART COMMITTEES:
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
93 {Hitch $£afes $ena£e

BUDGET
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 5, 1982

Mr. N. M. Graham
4902 Montgomery Ave.
Bethesda, Maryland 20816

Dear Mr. Graham:

Thanks for sharing your thoughts about reauthorization of
the Endangered Species Act. It's good to hear from you.

As you know, the 1973 law directed Federal agencies to take
steps to prevent the extinction of plant and wildlife species.
Under the Act, the Interior and Commerce Departments were vested
with the authority to decide which species should be listed as en—
dangered or threatened. Interior's Fish and Wildlife Service
handles land species while Commerce's National Marine Fisheries
Service handles most marine species.

The Senate Environmental Pollution Subcommittee held over—
sight hearings on the reauthorization in early December and has
scheduled hearings on specific legislative proposals for March of
this year. I generally support the Act in its current form and
voted for the last amendments to the Act agreed upon in 1979.

It's helpful to have the benefit of your thoughts on this
and I'll certainly keep them in mind when the full Committee has
a chance to discuss the Endangered Species Act later this year.

Again, thanks for taking time to write. I hope you'll
continue to keep in touch in the coming months. '

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




~--.-:*-~vﬁ~~ ~ 7‘ .1...» 1.11,- 1...- ‘" , " .. ".1.” - -----~ 7" .. new» 1-.....” - v.1W?
G Y ‘ COMMlTTEES

(gigga/X /ﬂ‘?z" (CM/L Mai—(L Kf/j am-1¢~€r’ W ARMEDSERVICES
¢ ' ',

LEE-snowman 1' AND PUBLIC worms

9161111921 ibfaies 3012111119 ’ BUDGET

WASHINGTON. [3.0. 20510

July 17, 1981

Ms. Georgie Leighton
P.O. box 1431
Aspen, Colorado 81612

Dear Ms. Leighton:

Thanks for writing me about humaQe treatment ofmanimals. I
appreciate hearing from you and would like to explain my position
on this issue.

Several bills have been introduced in Congress this session
which seek to require the Federal government to promote nonanimal
tests. Estimates of the number of animals used in research each
year in the United States alone go up to 100 million. Searches
for everything ~~ new weapons, new makeups, a cure for cancer ~~
involve animals. Indeed, animals have become a tool of science,
as important as the test tube itself.

Tests conducted on animals range from causing great pain to
the less dramatic. Many of these tests continue because Federal
regulations require them before products can be marketed. The
results from the Drazie test, for example, are required by the
Food and Drug Administration. Quite simply, the Federal
government takes the position that it is more desirable to test
products on animals than on the consumer.

Testing critics and proponents of legislation, however,
contend that neither the scientific community nor the government
has been sufficiently interested in finding new ways of testing.
Recently, these critics have included surprising numbers of
scientists. To the accusation that animal tests are immoral,
they have added the charge that many tests are so unreliable as
to be bad science. Better ways could be found, they argue, that
would be cheaper, more efficient and more humane.

A bill sponsored by Representative Roe, H.R. 556, seeks to
establish a National Center for Alternative Research in the
Department of Health and Human Services. This Center would
develop new testing and research methods which do not involve the
use of live animals, as well as administer training programs in
using these methods. This measure is pending action by the House
Energy and Commerce, and Science and Technology Committees. A
Senate resolution sponsored by Senator Durenburger which

expresses the Senate's support for nonanimal testing and research
is pending act ion by the Environment and Public Works Committee.

Again, thanks for sharing your thoughts with me. If you
have any further comments or questions about this or other
important matters, please don 't hesitate to contact me. Let's
stay in touch.

Sincerely“

 




GARY HA RT COMMITTEES:
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
’PJ Cnifeh ﬁfafes ﬁenaie

BUDGET
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

July 7, 1981

Mrs. Karen D. Bedinger
1821 Glenmere Ct.
Greeley, Colorado 80631

Dear Mrs. Bedinger:

Thanks for getting in touch with me about the Marine Mammal
Protection Act. I appreciate hearing from you and would like to
explain my position on this issue.

Legislation has been introduced by Representative Young
which seeks to reauthorize and amend the Marine Mammal Protection
Act of 1972. This bill would prohibit the Secretary of the
Interior from issuing general permits authorizing the taking of
marine mammals in connection with commercial fishing operations.
The House Committee on Merchant Marines and Fisheries is
presently studying this measure.

I support a strong Marine Mammal Protection Act and will
study any amendments carefully. I believe the U. S. should
examine its own fishing practices carefully and work to establish

a new international program to provide adequate protection for
all marine mammals.

Again, thanks for sharing your thoughts with me. If you
have any further comments or questions about this or other ,
important matters, please don't hesitate to contact me. Let's
stay in touch.

Sincerely,

/"‘
(//// 2/4y7)/’ J/4I?7/'
Gary art
/

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




‘ U

h

GARY HART COMMITTEES:
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
9.] Cnifeh ﬁfafes ﬁenafe

BUDGET
WASH! NGTON. D.C. 20510

May 21, 1981

Mrs. Clifford C. McAleenan
P. O. Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:
Thanks for getting in touch with me about North Pacific Fur

Seals and marine mammal protection. I appreciate hearing from
you and share your interest in this important issue.

As you may know, legislation has been introduced in the
House which seeks to end U.S. participation in the Interim
Convention on the Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals. This
treaty requires us to conduct an annual "harvest" of tens of
thousands of fur seals on the Pribiloff Island in Alaska.

Since 1981, the U.S. has been party to international
agreements governing the slaughter of fur seals in the Northern
Pacific area. The pact, which is now in effect, and which comes
up for renegotiation or extension later this year, requires that
the U.S. share its seal kill, (currently about 25,000 annually)
with Canada and Japan, in exchange for their agreement to forego
systematic killing of seals at sea.

The prohibition on pelagic sealing (that is, the killing of
seals at sea) is the primary justification for our participation
in the interim convention. Indeed, pelagic sealing was a threat
to the seal herd in the early 1900's when agreements like the
interim convention were first entered into. There is no reason
to believe termination of the convention would necessarily lead
to a resumption of commercial pelagic sealing.

The legislation sponsored by Representaties Horton and Roe,
addresses the entire North Pacific Fur Seal problem -— from the
seals to the Aleut Indians. The social welfare of the Pribiloff
Island natives has been a major consideration of the Department
of Commerce's continued support of the Aleut Seal harvest. Title
III of the bill would establish an advisory committee to study
and recommend to Congress alternative means of developing a
livelihood for Pribiloff Island natives in lieu of the taking of
seals.

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




Page 2

This legislation is now being considered by several
different House committees; similar legislation has not yet been
introduced in the Senate. I intend to study this or similar
legislation carefully should it come before the full Senate. I
believe we must reexamine our own government's participation in
the seal harvesting programs and work to establish a new

international program which will provide better protection of the
North Pacific Fur Seals.

Again, thanks for sharing your thoughts with me. If you
have any further comments or questions about this or other

important matters, please don't hesitate to contact me. Let's
stay in touch.

Sincerely

504/71 M7“

ary rt

 




GARY HART COMMITTEES:
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
’91 Cnifeh ﬁfafes 3) enafe

BUDGET
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

October 1, 1980

Mrs. Clifford C. McAleenan
P.O. Box 9939
Aspen, CO 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

Thanks for getting in_touch with me about legislation
which would amend the Lacey Act. I appreciate hearing
from you.

The Lacey Act, as originally passed, had two principal
purposes. The first was to strengthen and supplement state
wildlife conservation laws; the second was to promote the
interests of agriculture and horticulture by prohibiting
the importation of certain types of wildlife determined to be
harmful to those interests. Both of these original purposes
have been expanded considerably in the 80 years of the Act's
existence. In fact, that steady process of expansion is
evidenced by proposed legislation.' Bills to reinforce the
Lacey Act have passed the House and are pending action by the
full Senate. These measures, the Lacey Act Amendments of 1980,
would substantially increase the_enforcement mechanisms of
this principle tool of wildlife protection in the U.S.

Included in this legislation are provisions which would
restrict ivory imports in an effort to protect the dwindling
world population of elephants, as well as encourage foreign
governments to adOpt sound, responsible game management programs.

Again, thanks for sharing your thoughts with me. If you
have any further questions or comments about this or other
important issues, please let me know. I hope you will continue
to stay in touch.

Sincerely,

éd 4/ﬁ/

G ry H rt

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




GARY HART COLORADO OFFICE:
COLORADO - 1748 HIGH STREET
DENVER. COLORADO 802.18

(303) 837-4421
COMMITTEES:

ARMED SERVICES @Cniieh ${afes ﬁenale

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
BUDGET

September 23, 1980

Marian McAleenan
Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81011

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

Thanks for your letter about Poudre Canyon. It's good to hear
from you. As you might expect, I have begun to receive quite a bit
of mail about the Poudre.

As you know, the U. 8. Forest Service and the State of
Colorado have tentatively recommended the Cache 1a Poudre River for
protection under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. The Forest Service
plans to make a final recommendation on the Poudre sometime in the
near future. The Poudre is one of eleven Colorado rivers either
being studied or already recommended for wild and Scenic designation.

I have not yet studied in detail the Forest Service's initial
recommendation for the Poudre. Similarly, I've seen only a limited
amount of information about the possible Grey Mountain-Idylwild
project, which could be built in the Poudre Canyon. Because the
information about both the wild and scenic river designation and the
possible water project is still preliminary, I'm not able to form any
final opinion about the future management of the Poudre at this time.

When the Administration makes a final recommendation to Congress
on the Poudre, I'll examine all options for the river. I also Plan to
study the degree to which the alternative proposals are incompatible,
and whether each proposal might be modified in order to
accommodate the other.

The preservation of the magnificent beauty of the Poudre Canyon
will eventually have to be measured against the agruments for storage
and use of the water in the river.

As Colorado history illustrates, public debates over water are
always complicated, and often controversial. But public debate is an
indispensable element in the process that determines how our limited
resources are to be used. I'm glad you have made your voice heard.

Again, thanks for taking the time to write. Let's stay in
touch.

Sincerely,

3 H r
THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPE MZDE w H RECYCLED FIBERS

 




  

   

GARY HART COLORADO OFFICE:
COLORADO 1748 HIGH STREET
DENVER. COLORADO 80218
(303) 837-4421

 
 

COMMITTEES:

ARMED SERVICES wcnifeb ﬁfafeg $eﬂa‘le

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS

 

SELECT COMMITTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE October 2 O , l 9 8 0

Ms. Marion McAlleenam
Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Ms. McAlleenam:

I know how interested you've been in the Alaska lands bill
.which recently came before the Senate, and I wanted to get back
to you to Share my views and let you know where this legislation
stands.

After studying carefully the Alaska lands issue, I became
convinced we can develop Alaska's resources -- especially its
valuable oil and gas —— and, at the same time, preserve a reason»
able share of the most spectacular undeveloped land in this huge
state. Accordingly, I joined a large majority of my colleagues in
supporting proposals to expand the conservation system units in the
Senate Energy Committee's original measure.

Along with Senator John Chafee, (R-Rhode Island), I proposed
an amendment to increase the amount of land added to the wildlife
refuge system, restoring one-third of the acreage the Committee
deleted from the House of Representatives' bill. The Senate, in
three test votes, supported our amendment by margins of about
two-to-one.

When orderly consideration of this and other amendments to the
bill was prevented by parliamentary delays, a compromise was
developed to get a bill through the Senate. I supported the compro-
mise bill, which was approved overwhelmingly.

The substitute, which was Offered by Senator Paul Tsongas and
the Energy Committee chairman, Senator Jackson, would designate
more than 100 million acres as national parks or preserves, national
wildlife refuges, wilderness areas, and wild and scenic rivers.
Designation of so much land is unprecedented, dwarfing all the
designations previously made by Congress. In fact, the wildlife
provisions alone would almost triple the total land presently
included in the National Wildlife Refuge System.

The substitute bill does not address only conservation issues,
since the land designations will determine in part, which of Alaska's
importint economic resources can be develOped. The boundariee oi the
conservation system units in the Senate bill have been carefully

    

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

  




Page 2

drawn to keep all of Alaska's promising oil and gas reserves
available for development.

As you know, the House passed its version of the Alaska lands
legislation in 1979. Since the Senate passed its bill, negotiations
have been underway between House and Senate members to explore the
differences between the two measures. It is still unclear how
Congress, when it reconvenes November 12, will proceed to resolve
those differences.

For my part, I will support responsible efforts to reach a
compromise between the two versions of the bill, so Congress can
enact a final bill meeting our responsibility to all Americans --
including those of future generations -- in addressing this, our
last great chance to make the right decisions from the beginning.

Thanks for your interest in this important issue. I will
continue to follow it closely with your views in mind. Let's stay
in touch.

Sincerely,

dyJ M/

Gar Har

 




mMarch 26, 1980

Mr. Bill Shor
Office of Senater Ga

Washington, D.C. 2051:

Dear Bill,

I'm senﬂing some of the backup information on the House Bill
H.R. 4685 plus a copy of the Bill itself. I hope you and the
Senator will see your way clear to strengthening the Chafee
Bill as much as possibly to help protect the sorely beieagured
(and very wohderful) elephant.

Thanks fer giving us acme time the other day. and, especially,
thanks for your interest.'

Sincerely,

John Gleiber
Encl: Executive Secretary

W M
WWW Slow r

1'

W “"'

 




GARY HART

COM MITTEES:
COLORADO

ARMED SERVICES
ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
SELECT COM MITTEE

@Cnifeb $Iafes ﬁenafe °”'”TEL“GE”CE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 205IO

February 22, 1980

Mrs. Clifford C. McAleenan
P.O. Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

This is just a short note to thank you for taking
the time to comment on the Department of Interior's
revised Federal policy on predator damage control pro—
grams. I appreciate your interest in this issue.

Secretary Andrus announced this revised policy after
extensive review of existing predator damage control
programs. This study was initiated after both the
livestock industry and the environmental community ex—
pressed dissatisfaction with existing programs. Your
comments are extremely useful to me as I continue to study
the Secretary's recommendations.

Again, thanks for sharing your thoughts with me.
If you have any further questions on this issue, please
let me know. I look forward to your continued correspondence.

mm»... m2 _ .

Sincerely,”m

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




 

GARY HART COLORADO OFFICE:
COLORADO I 1748 HIGH STREET
DENVER, COLORADO 80218
(303) 837-4421

Wf'm

COM M ITTEES:

ARMED SERVICES ’PJCnifeh ﬁfafes ﬁenaic

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS

BUDGET September 3, 1980

‘

Marian McAleenan

BOX 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Ms. McAleenan:

Thanks for writing me about legislation which would release to
multiple-use management the RARE II lands not specifically desig-
nated as wilderness by Congress. I share your interest in this
issue and welcome this opportunity to state my views.

I'm concerned about attempts to release lands not designated
as wilderness by 1984 through simple, blanket release legislation.
As you know, Representative Foley introduced such a measure in the
House, H.R. 6070, known as the National Forest Multiple—Use
Management Act of 1980. This bill is now being studied by the
House Agriculture, and Interior and Insular Affairs Committees.

An identical bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Helms and
was referred to the Senate Agriculture Committee.

I favor release generally, as do most people. The real issue
is how most effectively to release the lands. I oppose statutory
release legislation such as the National Forest Multiple—Use
Management Act of 1980. This legislation would serve as a precedent
which could undermine the National Wilderness Preservation System
established in 196“. Instead, I favor release through a combination
of Congressional reports directing release, Forest Service action
under existing laws, and a legislative provision to allow adminis-
trative release. This combination is the most effective form of
release —- and a combination which the Congress will approve.

The Forest Service has already released most of the RARE II
land. In Colorado, for example, after reviewing 6.5 million acres
of roadless areas, the Forest Service in April 1979 designated
A.2 million acres as non—wilderness. The Forest Service then
lifted the RARE II freeze on these lands, and returned them to
multiple-use management. Timbering and other development activities
have already taken place on much of these lands.

While this type of administrative release has been effective to
date, it is threatened by a recent court decision. A U.S. District
Court in California has ruled that the RARE II environmental impact
statement is inadequate, and declared that all RARE II lands in
California must be managed as wilderness until new impact statements
are prepared. Although I support the concept of environmental

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 

 




 

Page 2

review, we cannot afford to have all RARE II lands frozen again.

To avoid that, I favor Congressional determinations in the form of
amendments to wilderness bills, finding that RARE II impact state-
ments are adequate. Then, when a final wilderness bill is approved
by Congress, the RARE II lands already released will be protected
against a court-ordered freeze.

More direct Congressional action, however, is necessary to
release other RARE II lands —— those the Administration recommended
for wilderness designation. The Forest Service is now managing
these areas as wilderness. To speed up the release of the areas,
which should be returned to non-wilderness, I favor listing, in
the conference committee report accompanying a final bill, those
areas which Congress has reviewed and decided not to designate as
wilderness. The Forest Service has stated it will take this report
language as a binding mandate, and will immediately return the listed
areas to multiple-use management.

This method will allow the most effective release of the vast
majority of the RARE II lands. There is no need for statutory
release legislation that would only confirm existing administrative
practices of the Forest Service. Instead, responsible legislative
efforts are required to ensure the RARE II process is not delayed
by the unneceSsary freezing of land. In addition, Congress desig—
nates a wilderness area only after extensive review of those lands
recommended for wilderness by the Administration. In doing so, a
precise boundary is established around the areas which are then
managed under provisions of the Wilderness Act of 1964. Without
studying the remaining roadless areas designated as nonmwilderness
by the Administration, Congress should not make essentially
permanent decisions about their future management through statutory
release legislation.

Again, thanks for sharing your thoughts with me. If you have
any further questions or comments about this issue, please do not
hesitate to contact me. Let's stay in touch.

Sincerely,

    

 




GARY HART . COLORADO OFFICE:
COLORADO 1748 HIGH STREET
DENVER. COLORADO 80218

COMMITTEES: (303) 837—4421

ARMED SERVICES gcnifeh ﬁfafeg ﬁenaie

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS

SELECT COM M ITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE
October 15, 1983

Mrs. Elizabeth Li”fin
217 Scott St.
Waterbury, CT 06770

'P I

Dear Mr. hitfin:

I know how interested you‘ve heen in the hlasha lands hill
which recently came hefore the Senate, and I wanted to get hack
to you to share my views and let you know where this legislation
stands.

After studying carefully the Alaska lands issue, I became
convinced we can develop Alaska's resources -— especially its
valuahle oil and gas -- and, at the same time, preserve a reason-
able share of the most spectacular undeveloped land in this huge
state. Accordingly, I joined a large majority of my colleagues in
supporting proposals to expand the conservation system units in the
Senate Energy Committee's original measure.

Along with Senator John Chafee, (R—Rhode Island), I proposed
an amendment to increase the amount of land added to the wildlife
refuge system, restoring one-third of the acreage the Committee
deleted from the House of Representatives' hill. The Senate, in
three test votes, supported our amendment by margins of about
two-to-one.

When orderly consideration of this and other amendments to the
bill was prevented by parliamentary delays, a compromise was
developed to get a hill through the Senate. I supported the comPrO‘
mise bill, which was approved overwhelmingly.

The substitute, which was offered by Senator Paul Tsongas and
the Energy Committee chairman, Senator Jackson, would designate
more than 100 million acres as national parks or preserves, national
wildlife refuges, wilderness areas, and wild and scenic rivers.
Designation of so much land is unprecedented, dwarfing all the
designations previously made by Congress. In fact, the wildlife
provisions alone would almost triple the total land presently
included in the national Wildlife Refuge System.

The substitute hill does not address only conservation issues,
since the land designations will determine in part, which of Alaska's
important economic resources can he developed. The boundaries of the
conservation system units in the Senate hill have been carefully

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




 

    

Page 2

drawn to keep all of Alaska's promising oil and gas reserves
available for development.

As you know, the House passed its version of the Alaska lands
legislation in 1979. Since the Senate passed its bill, negotiations
have been underway between House and Senate members to explore the
differences between the two measures. It is still unclear how

Congress, when it reconvenes November 12, will proceed to resolve
those differences.

For my part, I will support responsible efforts to reach a
compromise between the two versions of the bill, so Congress can
enact a final bill meeting our responsibility to all Americans --
including those of future generations -- in addressing this, our
last great chance to make the right decisions from the beginning.

Thanks for your interest in this important issue. I will

continue to follow it closely with your views in mind. Let's stay
in touch.

Sincerely,

43%;?!”

Ga




GARY HART COLORADO OFFICE:
COLORADO 1748 HIGH STREET
DENVER. COLORADO 80218
(303) 837-4421
COMMITTEES:

ARMED SERVICES gCniieB ﬁfafes ﬁenaie

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS

BUDGET
July 24, 1980

. for writing me about your up ort for elephant
ion legislation. It's good to -ear fr

on you.

The Elephant Protection Act of 1979 woule place severe
restrictions on the importation of elephant ivory. This legis-
lation is intenged to prevent a further reﬂuction in the world's
elephant population. Present regulations allow ivory imports if
they come from countries that are members of the Convention on
International Traée in Endangered Species. The regulations,
however, are wisely circumvented by smugglers shipping ivory
supplied by poachers through third countries with false customs
socuments. U.S. Customs officials are sometimes unable to verify
the country of origin and thereby prevent illegal entry.

The Elephant Protection Act, which passed the House late
last year and is now being considereé by several Senate committees,
calls for a ninety-day moratorium on imports of worked ivory
products, followeg 3y a six—month moratorium on all ivory imports.
The Interior Department would then grant import or export permits
only if consultations with foreign wildlife management authorities
show the country of origin has an aéeguate conservation management
5901 icy o

The Elephant Protection legislation now pending before the
Senate provides greater protection than the House-passed bill.
Senators Culver and Chafee have offered an amendment, Senate Amend—
nent 1680, which would broaden the legislation and encourage compre-
hensive and effective game management practices in exporting countries.
Many foreign countries have refused to adopt responsible game
management practices necessary for the survival of the elephant. The
most effective measures to protect elephants can only be taken by these
countries. If the Elephant Protection Act can serve this purpose, it
should be enacted.

Again, thanks for sharing your thoughts with me. I hope you
will continue to stay in touch.

Ix
c::::;3’ .
Hal t

Ga , 3
THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER A‘DE WIT xRECYCLED FTBERS

4/

 




   

   
      
     
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
 

GARY HART COLORADO OFFICE:

COLORADO 1748 HIGH STREET
DENVER, COLORADO 80218
COMMITTEES: (303) 83744?“
O
ARMED SERV'CES @Cnrfeh ﬁfafes ﬁenafe
ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
SELECT COM M ITTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE play 6 l 9 8 O
’

Marian McAleenan
Box 9939
Aspen, CO 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

Thanks for writing me about your support for elephant
protection legislation. It's good to hear from you.

The Elephant Protection Act of 1979 would place severe
restrictions on the importation of elephant ivory. This legis-
lation is intended to prevent a further reduction in the world's
elephant population. Present regulations allow ivory imports if
they come from countries that are members of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species. The regulations,
however, are widely circumvented by smugglers shipping ivory
supplied by poachers through third countries with false customs
documents. 'U.S. Customs officials are sometimes unable to verify
the country of origin and thereby prevent illegal entry.

The Elephant Protection Act, which passed the House late
last year and is now being considered by several Senate committees,
calls for a ninety-day moratorium on imports of worked ivory
products, followed by a six-month moratorium on all ivory imports.
The Interior Department would then grant import or export permits
only if consultations with foreign wildlife management authorities

show the country of origin has an adequate conservation management
pOliC'y 0

Many foreign countries have refused to adopt responsible
game management practices necessary for the survival of the
elephant. The most effective measures to protect elephants can
only be taken by these countries. If the Elephant Protection Act
can serve this purpose, it should be enacted.

Again, thanks for sharing your thoughts with me. I hope you
will continue to say in touch.

Sincerely,

    

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS




GARY HART COLORADO OFFICE:
COLORADO 1748 HIGH STPEIET
DENVER, COLORADO 80218

COMMITTEES: (303) 837-4421

ARMED SERVICES wcniieb $£G£9$ ﬁeﬂaie

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC woRKs

SELECT COM M ITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE March 2 7 , l 9 8 0

Mr. & Mrs. Kenneth Mason
Pine Island

Box 670

Tower, MN 55790

Dear Friends:

I know how interested you have been in proposals to end the
use of steel-Jaw leghold traps. The Secretary of the Interior
has released his recommendations regarding animal trapping and
predator control, and I wanted to get this information to you
for your review.

As you may know, legislation to prohibit the interstate
shipment or importation of steel-jaw leghold traps is still
pending before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee.
The bill, introduced by Senator Williams, would also prohibit the
shipment of animal furs from states or countries which have not
‘banned these traps. Similar legislation is being considered by
the House Transportation and Commerce Subcommittee.

After a lengthy review of Federal predator damage control
programs, Secretary Andrus has announced a revised Federal policy.
I have enclosed a news release from the Interior Department which
summarizes the Federal policy revisions and would appreciate your
comments. I am very interested in having your views as I continue
to study steel-Jaw leghold trap legislation.

Thanks again for your interest in this issue. I look forward
to your comments.

Enclosure

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




A a“
‘\

GARY HART
COLORADO

COMMITTEES:
ARM ED SERVICES

ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
SELECT COM M ITTEE

gtnifeh ﬁfaies ﬁenafe °”'”TE“"'GE”CE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 205l0

October 23, 1979

Mrs. Clifford C. McAleenan
P.O. Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

Thank you for writing and expressing your concern
with exempting Tellico Dam from the Endangered Species
Act. I appreciate hearing from you on this important issue.

Allow me to briefly explain the history of this
legislation.

The Tennessee Valley Authority was directed as part
of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill
for Fiscal Year 1980, to complete, operate and maintain
the Tellico Dam and Reservoir. After failing by a small
margin to delete language permitting the Tellico exemption,
the Senate cleared the appropriations bill, which the
President then signed on September 25, 1979.

This decision bypassed a new procedure Congress set
up last year for resolving conflicts between the Endangered
Species Act and Federal projects. This new procedure in—
cludes a seven-member, Cabinet-level committee -— headed
by Interior Secretary Cecil D. Andrus —— to weigh the argu—
ments and decide whether a project should proceed despite
its effect on wildlife threatened with extinction.

I supported this new procedure, which was designed
primarily to deal with the Tellico dam conflict.

Earlier this year, the committee voted unanimously to
stop the Tellico dam. It is important to note, however,
that the Tellico decision was based on the economics of the
Dam, not the threat to the snail darter. Under the provisions
of the new law, the review committee determined that the costs
of completing the Dam exceeded the total benefits of the Dam,
and more cost-effective alternatives could be used.

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




Page Two

Having set up a new balanced procedure to resolve
conflicts in individual cases, I believe Congress should
have abided by the results of that process. If Congress
continues to reverse decisions of the panel -- particularly
unanimous ones -- this process will lose its credibility.

I am well aware of the symbolism involved in the
Tellico Dam controversy, but Coloradans should not fear that
the decision on this dam will have ramifications for water
projects in our state. The economics of the Tellico Dam
were the cause of the new committee's opposition to it and
were the cause of my opposition to it.

I hope that my position on Colorado water projects
will be viewed independently and on their own grounds. I
have consistently stood firm for projects such as the Dallas
Creek near Montrose, and opposed the President's plan to
delete funding for it from the budget. I will continue to
state my positions on Colorado water projects clearly and
forcefully.

Again, Mrs. McAleenan, thanks for writing. I
hope we can continue to correspond on this and other important

issues.
Sincerely,

nyJ/of/
Ga Ha t

 




GARY HART
COLORADO COM MlTrEEs:

ARMED SERVICES
PUBLIC WORKS

CDJCnifeB ﬁfafez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 22, 1977

Mrs. Clifford C. McAleenan
P. O. Box 9939
Aspen, CO 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

I appreciate receiving your letter protesting the
Alaskan wolf hunt. I have received many letters from
people who share your views on this serious controversy.

Reducing the size of wolf packs is not the best way
to increase numbers of moose. Although it is true that
the moose population in Alaska has dwindled since the
late 1950's, this can be attributed to hunting as well as
wolf predation. If the numbers of moose are truly threatened,
then the first recourse should be to declare a moratorium

on hunting them.

Although a large portion of the land where wolves
are being hunted in Alaska is owned by the forest service,
Bureau of Land Management, and Department of Defense, states
have traditionally had responsibility for managing wildlife
within their boundaries even though the animals might be on
Federal land. However, due to vigilance and protest by
environmental groups and people like yourself, the Federal
government has at least been persuaded to withdraw its
funding of the project. Hopefully, the hunt can be stopped
completely.

Again, thank you for writing.

Sincerely,

 




GARY HART COLORADO OFFICE:
COLORADO 1200 WILLIAMS STREET
DENVER, COLORADO 80218
COMMITTEES: (303) 837-4421

ARMED SERVICES gcnifeh ﬁfafeg ﬁeﬂaie
June 1 5 , 1 9 7 7 t/

PUBLIC WORKS

Marian F. McAleenan
P. O. Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Ms. McAleenan:

Thank you for your letter on the Marine Mammal Protection
Act. I appreciated hearing from you and am aware of the double
jeopardy problem surrounding this issue.

To insist on the immediate reduction of porpoise killing
to insignificant levels could conceivably run the U.S. tuna
industry out of business. Since the tuna fleets of other
nations are not constrained by the Marine Mammal Protection
Act, more porpoises will be taken in the long run.

At the same time, I question the wisdom of allowing the
"lowest practicable levels" of porpoise taking. The important
question seems to be how fast the goal of insignificant porpoise
taking is to be reached. The Commerce Department has set this
year's limit at 59,000. Whether or not this is a realistic
number is now the subject of House and Senate hearings. Be
assured I will keep your comments in mind when I read through
the hearing testimony.

Again, I appreciate having your comments on this.

Sincere y,

 




GARY HART COLORADO OFFICE:
COLORADO 1748 HIGH STREET
44 DENVER, COLORADO 80218
COMMITTEES: (303) 837-4421

ARMED SERVICES gcnifeh ﬁfafeg ﬁeﬂaie

I
ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS

SELECT COM M lTTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE

November 26, 1979

Harry S. Mays, Pres.
2&09 Pine Knoll #2
Walnut Creek, Calif. 9A595

Dear Mr. Mays:

The Senate Energy Committee just recently completed its
consideration of the Alaskan lands legislation. I know how
interested you've been in this issue and wanted to get back to
you personally to let you know where I stand.

The Senate Energy Committee's bill would set aside more than
95 million acres of government—owned lands in Alaska for national
parks, wildlife refuges, and national forests. Under legislation
passed by the House earlier this year, almost 128 million acres
would be set aside.

The Senate bill also takes a much less restrictive approach
than the House version to oil and gas drilling, timber harvesting,

and mining. As a result, it doesn't offer as much protection to
wildlife as the House bill.

While I intend to study carefully the Senate Energy Committee
prOposals before I make up my mind on the finer points of detailed
questions, I generally prefer an approach more like that taken in
the House bill.

The scale of Alaska is staggering. It's one~fifth the size
of the rest of the country. While it presents an unprecedented
opportunity for intensive natural resource deveIOpment, it also
provides an unprecedented Opportunity for preservation of wildlife
and unspoiled land. Because Alaska is so big, with careful
decisions we can take advantage of both Opportunities.

We have entered an era of relative resource scarcity which
forces us to revise many of our assumptions about the patterns of
development and growth in this nation. Our seemingly limitless
frontiers have fostered an American culture which sanctions
indulgence and waste. If we are to provide wise stewardship of
our lands, we must recognize that our resources are no longer
inexhaustible. We cannot Justify the careless consumption which
we have been too guilty of in the past. Growth and development
should proceed where it is most needed and least harmful to our
environment. The Federal government must take the initiative if
we are to provide for today while caring about tomorrow.

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




Page 2

The disposition of more than 100 million acres of Alaskan
lands provides an excellent Opportunity for us to act in a
responsible, far~sighted manner. If we are to err in our Judgment,
let that error be on the side of conservation, for once we commit
our resources to development, they are lost forever to future
generations. Large~scale intrusion into natural areas is an
almost irrevocable use of the land, not only in terms of energy
and mineral resources, but in terms of the more intangible
resources such as wildlife habitat and water quality.

It is for these reasons that I support the approach taken by
the House legislation. .

Thanks for your thoughtful comments and for taking the time
to help me out with these difficult decisions. I hope you will

continue to stay in touch.

Sincerely,
M

.///M /
it} I” I? - W
L. f}! / /?'7
j

Gary Ha

/ /

 




94TH CONGRESS
2D SESSION

 

 

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

//,f::}.e.QTOBER 1 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 30) , 1976

Mr. GARY EET-IARTEintroduced the following bill; which was read twice and
E f referred to the Committee on Commerce

 

3 I LL

To encourage and assist the States to develop improved programs
for the conservation of no‘nzgame species of native ﬁsh and

wildlife, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and H ease of Representa—

tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That this Act may be cited as the “Federal Aid in N on—
grame Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1976”. I
SEC. 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY.
(ea) FINDINGS—The Congress ﬁnds and declares the
following : I
(1) Nongame «species of native ﬁsh and wildlife are of
ecological, economic, educational, esthetic, historical, recrea—
tional, and scientiﬁc value to the Nation and its people.

II

 




 

00

14>

U!

63

«1

10
11
12

13
14

15
16
17..
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24

2

(2) The improved conservation of these species, includ-
ing retention, maintenance, and improvement of their
habitat, would help assure a healthier and more ‘e-sthetically
pleasing environment for all Americans.

(8) Urban dwellers have insufﬁcient opportunity to
participate in recreational and other programs designed to
foster human interaction With nongame Wildlife and, thereby,
a greater appreciation and awareness of the environment.

(4) Existing State programs for nongame ﬁsh and Wild-
life species have been supported largely on the basis of hunt-
ing and ﬁshing license revenues and excise taxes on certain
hunting and ﬁshing equipment. These traditional ﬁnancing
mechanisms are not adequate to meet the needs of programs
for both nongame and game species, and they must be sup-
plemented.

(5) The States should be encouraged to develop, ex—
pand, and maintain, in urban and nonurban areas, programs
for the conservation of nongamc species of native ﬁsh and
Wildlife.

(b) PURPOSE—It is the purpose of this Act—

(1) to provide ﬁnancial and technical assistance to
the States for the development, expansion, and mainte-

nance of conservation programs for nongame species of

ﬁsh and Wildlife; and

 




o”~‘- Q... ‘

 

C3

\1

10

11

12

13
14

20

3

(2) to direct that all Federal departments and
agencies utilize this statutory and administrative author—
ity, to the maximum extent practicable, actiVely seek to
conserve and to promote conservation of, nongame
species of native ﬁsh and wildlife and the habitats of
such species, in furtherance of the policy of this Act.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

As used in this Act:

(1) The terms “conserve”, “conserving”, and “con-
servation” mean to use, and the use of, methods” or proce-
dures which are necessary to insure, to the extent practicable
and desirable, the continued existence of populations of non-
game species of native ﬁsh and wildlife. Such methods and
procedures may include any activity associated with scien—
tiﬁc resourcas management, such as research, census, law
enforcement, habitat acquisition and development, informa—
tion and education, live trappings, and transplantations.

(2) The term “ﬁsh and wildlife” means any member of
the animal kingdom, including without limitation any species
of mammal, bird, ﬁsh, reptile, amphibian, mollusk,
crustacean, arthropod, or other invertebrate which, with re
spect to a particular State, is native to that State. I

(3) The term “designated State agency” means a. com?

mission, department, division, or other unit of a. State govern-

 




 

10
11
12

13
14

15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24

4:
ment which is certiﬁed 'to possess legal authority regarding
nongame animals which occur in such State, as required
under subsection 5 (e) .

(4) The term “fund” means the Nongame Fish and
Wildlife Conservation Fund established under section 5.

(5) The term “includes” and variants thereof should
be read as if the phrase “but is not limited to” were also set
forth.

(6) The term “nongame species” means and includes all
Wild animals in 'the phylum vertebrata, which offer beneﬁts
in the form of cultural or scientiﬁc values or noneonsumptive
recreation.

(7) The term “plan” means a comprehensive and con-
tinuing program for the conservation and rehabilitation of
nongame species of ﬁsh and Wildlife. Such plans may include
a number of nongame Wildlife projects.

(8) The “term “project” means an undertaking designed
to conserve or rehabilitate species of nongame ﬁsh and
Wildlife.

(9) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the
Interior, directly or through the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, as appropriate,

(10) The term “species” means, with respect to ﬁsh

or Wildlife, any spemes, any subspecies, and any other group

 




 

$00K)

10
11
12
13
14-

16

17

18

19

2O

21

22

5
of ﬁsh or wildlife of the same species or smaller tax in common
spatial arrangement which are capable of interbreeding.

(11) The term “State” means any of the several States,
the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the common-
wealth of the Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territories of
the Paciﬁc Islands.

SEC. 4. NONGAME FISH AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION
PROGRAM.

(a) PBOGRAM.—-T5he Secretary shall cooperate with
the States in programs for the conservation of nongame
species of native ﬁsh and wildlife by providing, through
designated State agemcies, ﬁnancial assistance to carry out
approved plans or projects for the conservation, ‘of such
species. Such assistance shall be provided pursuant to the
formula set forth in section 5 (c) and in accordance with
the requirements of sections 5 (e) and (f).

(b) TRANSFER or PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT.—
The Secretary may, in assisting the States in carrying out
programs under subsection (a) , assign or transfer personnel
and equipment {and share scientiﬁc information, in such man-

ner as the Secretary deems appropriate.

 




 

10

11

12..

13

14.

16

17

18

6
SEC. 5. NONGAME FISH AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION
FUND.

, (a) FUN D.——There shall be established in the Treasury
of the United States the N ongame Fish and Wildlife Con-
servation Fund. An amount equal to all revenues Vaccrning
each ﬁscal year beginning with ﬁscal year 1978 from funds

authorized to be appropriated pursuant to section 8 toil this

. Act shall be credited to the fund.

( 2) Any amount apportioned to a State pursuant to
subsection (c) which is unexpended or unobligated at the
close of 2 ﬁscal years may be used by the Secretary, during
the succeeding 2 - ﬁscal years, to assist other States in
carrying out approved nonganie conservation plans or proj—
ects. Any amount granted to any Shite under this paragraph
shall be supplemental to, and shall not be charged against,
any funds apportioned to such State under suhseetion (c) .
Any amount which is not paid or obligated by the Secre—
tary pursuant to this paragraph alter the close of the second
such 2—year period shall be made available for expenditure
by the Secretary in carrying out any program administered
by the Fish and Wildlife Service Which serves ill e nengalne
ﬁsh and Wildlife resource.

(1)) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSEr—rllhe Secretary may
use not to exceed 8 percent of. the revenues credited to the

fund for the expenses incurred in administering this Act.

 

 




 

 

 

coco-:1

10
11
12
13

H

7

Such sums shall be available until the expiration of the next

succeedmg ﬁscal year. If any such amount remains unex-

pendéed by the Secretary at the close of such ﬁscal year,
the Secretary shall, within 60 days thereof, apportion such
amount to State agencies on the same basis and in the same
manner as is provided for other amounts authorized by sub—
section (c) to be apportioned among the States for such
ﬁscal year.

- (c) APPORTION MEN T.——The Secretary, after making
deductions under subsection (b), shall apportion the rev—
enue in the fund among the several States for each ﬁscal year
in the following manner:

(1) one-third in the ratio which the area of each

State bears to the area of all of the States; and

(2) two-thirds in the Nation which the population
of each State bears to the population of all States;
except that no State shall receive less than one—half of 1
percent, nor more than 5 percent, of the total amount
apportioned.

(d) CERTIFICATION .——-For each ﬁscal year, the Secre-
tary shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury and to each
designated State agency the sum which the Secretary has
estimated to be deducted for the administration of this Act

under subsection (b) and the sum which the Secretary has

apportioned to each State.

 

 




14:

15 '

16

 

8

(e) SUBMISSIONS AND CONSIDERATION.—- (1) If a
State wishes to avail itself of the beneﬁts of the Act, it shall
certify to the Secretary that it has a State agency (which
Shall be identiﬁed) which has adequate statutory and admin-
istrative authority and the necessary resources and personnel
to conserve nongame species of native ﬁsh and wildlife, and
it shall make submissions to the Secretary in accordanCe
with paragraph (2) or (3). The Secretary shall consider
any such submissions and make determinations thereon
pursuant to paragraph (4) .

(2) The State may prepare and submit a comprehensive
ﬁsh and wildlife resource management plan to the Secretary,
with respect to the conservation of one or more nongame
species of native ﬁsh and wildlife. Any such plan shall——

(A) be submitted in such form and with such con—
tent as the =Secretary shall prescribe;

(B) include a description of all applicable methods
of conservation to be used in the plan and projects to be
carried out and projections as to possible future such
plans and projects;

(0) be designed to perpetuate the species covered
for the cultural, esthetic, scientiﬁc, and recreational en-
richment of the State and its residents and visitors;

(D) be based on the State’s projections as to the

needs of such species and the desires and needs of such

 

 




10
11
12
13

14c

16
17
18

19

9

residents and visitors for a period of not less than 15
years; and
(E) provide for such conservation for a period of

5 or more years, and shall include a provision for review

and revision at regular intervals, not to exceed 3 years.

(3) The State may prepare and submit a proposal to
the Secretary for a conservation project with respect to any
nongame species of native ﬁsh and Wildlife. Any such pro—
posal shall be submitted in such form and With such content
as the Secretary shall prescribe and shall include a detailed
description of the project involved.

(4) The Secretary shall study and evaluate any sub—
mission received under paragraph (2) or (3) . If the Secre—
tary finds that a comprehensive plan submitted under para—
graph (2) or a project submitted under paragraph (3) con-
forms to standards and criteria established by regulation by
the Secretary, such plan or project may be approved. In the
case of a project plan, the Secretary shall not grant ﬁnal
approval until the State furnishes such surveys, specifica-
tions, and additional information as the Secretary requests,
and subject to the Secretary’s approval thereof. In the case
of a comprehensive plan, the Secretary shall condition ap-
proval on substantiality of character and design. Upon ap—

- , 3 , , 1 l ,, , .
proval, the Secretary shall notify the designated State agency

of such State and shall immediately set aside, from funds ap-

 

 

 




 

 

10
11
12
13

14

16
17
18

1-9

21
22
23

24

10

portioned under this Act, up to 75 percent of the cost of im—
plementing segments of any comprehensive plan involved
or of the total estimated cost of the project involved. The
non—Federal share may, in the discretion of the Secretary,
be provided by the State in the form of money, in kind
contributions, or real property. The value of any such real
property shall be determined by the Secretary, Whose deci-
sion shall be ﬁnal.

(5) If any Federal funds provided for an approved
plan or project are used or applied for any other purpose,
the State involved shall replace or return such funds before
it may receive any additional apportionment under this Act.

(f) PROJECT on PLAN FUNDING.——(1) When the
Secretary ﬁnds that any project which is described in a com—
prehensive plan, or which is approved, under subsection (e) ,
has been completed or, in the case of research relating to non-
game species, that it is being conducted, in compliance With
the Secretary’s speciﬁcations, the Secretary shall pay the
amount set aside for such project to the State involved. The
Secretary may, in his discretion, make periodic payment as

such a project progresses; except that the amount of any such

. periodic payment shall not exceed the United States pro

rata share of the project. If a State has prepared a compre—
hensive plan under subsection (c) (2), Which hag *been

approved under subsection (e) (4) , the Secretary may, in his

 




 

[0

Q7!

«'1

11

discretion and under such rules and regulations as he may
prescribe, advance funds to such State for ﬁnancing the
United States pro rata share agreed upon between the desig-
‘nated State agency and the Secretary. The Secretary
and the applicable designated State agency may jointly
decide at What times and in What amounts payment shall be
made under this Act. Such payments shall be mad-e by the
Secretary of the Treasury, on warrants drawn by the Secre—
tary against the fund to such oﬂicial, ofﬁcials, or depository,
as may be designated by such agency in accordance With
the laws of such State.

(2) Any construction work and labor performed in
conjunction with an approved plan or project shall be per-
formed in accordance with the laws of such State and under
the direct supervision of the designated State agency, subject
to the inspection and approval of the Secretary and in ace-ord—
ance iWitll the rules and regulations issued under this Act.

(3) Administrative costs, in the form of overhead or
indirect costs for services provided by State central service
activities outside of a State agency having primary jurisdic—
tion over the nongame ﬁsh and Wildlife resources of a State
Which maybe charged against programs or projects supported
by the fund, shall not exceed, in any fiscal year, 3 percent of
the apportiomnent for s1'1ch year to such State.

(4) Not more than 10 percent of the State’s share of

 




 

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

18

20

21

22

23

24

25

12
program costs in any year may be from funds derived from
the sale of hunting, ﬁshing, and trapping licenses and
permits.

(5) Not more than 25 percent of a State apportionment
under this Act may be divided equally for information and
education programs, law enforcement, and extension services.

(g) INCREASED FEDERAL SHAREr—VVheﬂGVB-I' two or
more States have a common interest in a nongame species of
native ﬁsh and wildlife and jointly undertake a program or
project agreement with the Secretary for conservation of
such species, the Federal share of the cost involved may be
up to 90 percent.

SEC. 6. PAYMENT OF FUNDS TO, AND COOPERATION WITH
RESPECT TO CERTAIN DESIGNATED AREAS.

The Secretary may cooperate with the Secretary of
Agriculture of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Gov-
ernor of Guam, the Governor of the Virgin Islands, the Gov-
ernor of American Samoa, and the Mayor of the District of
Columbia in the conduct of nongame fish and wildlife con-
servation programs. Any such program shall be conducted
pursuant to such terms and conditions as the Secretary
deems fair and equitable, and which are likely to be effective
for such purpose. The Secretary may apportion to such juris—
dictions, out of the money available for apportionment under

thls Act, such sums as the Secretary shall determine; except

 




 

I-P-OONI—l

00-30301

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24

25

13

that such sums shall not exceed (1) for Puerto Rico, one-
half of 1 percent; (2) for Guam, one-sixth of 1 percent;
(3) for the Virgin Islands, one—sixth of 1 percent; (4) for
American Samoa, one—sixth of 1 percent; (5) and for the
District of Columbia, one-half of 1 percent, of the total
amount apportioned for 1 year. The Secretary shall not re—
quire any cooperating agency to pay an amount which will
exceed 25 percent of the cost of the project involved. Any
unexpended cr unobligated balance of any such apportion-
ment shall be available for expenditure in any such jurisdic-
tion in the succeeding ﬁscal year on any approved project
and, if unexpended or unobligated at the end of such ﬁscal
year, may be made available for expenditure by the Secre-
tary in carrying out any program administered by the Fish
and Wildlife Service which serves the nongame wildlife
resource.

SEC. 7. COOPERATION AND COORDINATION.

(a) IN GENERAL—All Federal departments and agen-
cies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate and
coordinate their programs and, activities with the States in
establishing and maintaining programs for the conservation
of nongame species of native ﬁsh and wildlife.

(b) REVIEW on EXISTING PROGRAMS—Each Federal
department and agency which has management authority

over land and water resources shall, within 1 year after the

 




 

 

 

10
11

12

16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

14
date of enactment of this Act, review each of its existing
programs for lands, waters, and; interests in lands and waters

subject to its control or authority to determine which let

such programs, it any, can be extended or modiﬁed, Without

jeopardizing the purposes of such programs, to include the
conservation of nongame sp ecires of native ﬁsh and Wildlife
as authorized by this Act. Up on making an aﬂirnrative such
determination, :any such department or agency shall notify
the appropriate State agency and cooperate With such agency
in the establishment «of conservation efforts with respect to
non-game species of native ﬁsh and Wildlife.

(c) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTs.—-All Federal depart.—
ments and agencies are authorized to enter into cooperative

agreements with State agencies under subsection (b) . Each

such. cooperative agreement shall——

(.1) specify those air as in which. such. programs
Will be implemented;

(2) provide, Where appropriate, for habitat im—
provements or modiﬁcations designed to conserve such
nongarne species;

(3) provide, to the extent practicable, for educa-—
tional and recreational programs to foster greater ap—
preciation and tmdéersltanding of SUP/ll nongame species;

and

 

 




c:

g;

GOO-«1&0!

10
11
12

    
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
    

15
(4) contain such other terms and conditions as the

Federal department or agency, or the State agency,

deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the dec-

laration of policy of this Act.
SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROPRIATIONS.

There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to carry
out the. purposes of this Act $10,000,000 for each of the
ﬁscal years 1978, 1979, and 1980.

SEC. 9. ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.

The Secretary is authorized to promulgate any rules and
regulations or any amendments "to existing rules and regula-
tions which are deemed necessary to carry out the provisions

Of this A013.




 

94TH CONGRESS
Mm S. 3887

 

 

ABILL

To encourage and assist the States to develop
improved programs for the conservation of
nongame species of native ﬁsh and wildlife,
and for other purposes.

 

 

 

By Mr. GARY HART

 

 

OCTOBER 1 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 30), 1976

Read twice and referred to the Committee on
Commerce

 

 

 




M! :
GARY HART COM 1TEES
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES

PUBLIC WORKS

’PJCnﬂeB ﬁfafes $enaie

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

June 22, 1976

Mrs. Catherine A. Scott
525 Valley View Drive
Boulder, Colorado 80302

Dear Mrs. Scott:

I appreciate receiving your letter expressing dismay over the
incidental killing of porpoises by tuna fishing fleets. I have
heard from.many people who agree that it is time this unfortunate
killing is stopped.

Events affecting the tuna—porpoise controversy have been
moving very rapidly. YourWIetfgfwiﬁﬂicateS”y3u“are aware of Judge
Ritchey's decision to prevent the use of purse seine nets. You
also know that Congressman Leggett has introduced an amendment to
the Marine Mammal Protection Act which would eliminate the impact
of this court decision.

 

 

Hearings were held on the Leggett bill by the House Committee
on Merchant Marine and Fisheries on May 20, 1976. Transcripts of
these hearings will be available soon and should provide valuable
information on which to base my vote on the Leggett bill, should
it reach the Senate floor. However, unless some new information
is provided, I will vote against the Leggett bill in its present
f0 rm . won”, W .. 1 :av -,./ “ , a -

Again, thank you for writing.

Sincerely,

"awn, J
5.
a, V
5'

 

 




GARY HART COMMn'rEEs:

COLORADO ARMED SERVICES
PUBLIC WORKS

’s’JCniteh ﬁfafeﬁ ﬁenate

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

March 8, 1976

Mrs. Catherine Scott
525 Valley View Drive
Boulder, Colorado 80302

Dear Hrs. Scott:

Thank you very much for your recent letter regarding the
Animal Welfare Improvement Act. I appreciate hearing your views
on this bill.

As you may know, both the Senate (5. 1941) and House
(H.R. 5808) versions of the Animal Welfare Improvement Act were
recently passed. This legislation seeks to promote adequate
standards for humane transportation of animals and I am strongly
in favor of it.

In addition, unlike the Senate, the House included a pro-
vision making it illegal to sponsor or abet an animal fighting
venture through use of the mails or by moving animals in inter-
state commerce. Hopefully the conference committee will be able
to reach a satisfactory agreement on this portion of the
legislation. Animal fighting is presently illegal in Colorado
and should the final version of the Animal Welfare Improvement
Act include a provision to discourage it nationally, I would be
in favor of it.

Again, thank you for writing.

 




GARY HART COMMI'ITEES:
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES
PUBLIC WORKS

@Cnifeh ${afeﬁ ﬁenaie

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

March 8, 1976

Mrs. Marian F. McAleenan
P. 0. Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

Thank you very much for your recent letter regarding the
Animal Welfare Improvement Act. I appreciate hearing your views
on this bill. ,

As you may know, both the Senate (S. 1941) and House
(H.R. 5808) versions of the Animal Welfare Improvement Act were
recently passed. This legislation seeks to promote adequate
standards for humane transportation of animals and I am strongly
in favor of it.

In addition, unlike the Senate, the House included a pro-
vision making it illegal to sponsor or abet an animal fighting
venture through use of the mails or by moving animals in inter-
state commerce. Hopefully the conference committee will be able
to reach a satisfactory agreement on this portion of the
legislation. Animal fighting is presently illegal in Colorado
and should the final version of the Animal Welfare Improvement
Act include a provision to discourage it nationally, I would be
in favor of it. ' rMWMwmmwmmm

. ”WW . , maﬁa madam
“m WW““WW~AW«‘W‘

Again, thank you for writing.

Sincerely

 




95TH CONGRESS * .
lsT SESSION S 1 4O

 

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

__ * BIARCH 28 (legislative day, FEBRUARY 21), 1977
Mr. GARY HART (for himself, Mr. i‘iNnERsON, Mr. BAKER, Mr. BAYII, Mr.
BUMPER-s.,~l\*lr. CAsE, Mr. (hi'AEEEE, Mr. CULVE I, Mr. HANSEN, Mr. HUM-
PHREY, Mr. MCGOVERX, Mr. METcALE, Mr. NELsON, Mr. RANDOLPH, Mr.
RIEGLE, Mr. SAReANEs, Mr. STAiir‘roin), Mr: VVALLor, and Mr. WVILLIAMS)
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on Envirmnnent and Public Wrorks

 

BILL

To, encourage and assist the States to develop improved prOgrams
for the conservation of nongame species of native ﬁsh and

wildlife, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and H case of Representa—
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That this Act may be cited as the “Federal Aid in Nongame
Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act of 197 7 ”.

SEC. 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY.

(a) FIN DIN GS.—-The Congress ﬁnds and declares the
following:

(1) Nongame species of native ﬁsh and wildlife are
of ecological, economic, educational, esthetic, historical,

II

 




 

U}

004:»

10
11
12
13
1.4:
15
16
1-7
18
19
20
21
22

24
25

2
recreational, and scientiﬁc value to the Nation and its
people.

(2) The improved conservation of these species,
including retention, maintenance, and improvement of
their habitat, would help assure a healthier and more
esthetically pleasing environment for all Americans.

(3) Urban dwellers have insufﬁcient opportunity
to participate in recreational and other programs de—
signed to foster human interaction With nongame Wildlife
and, thereby, a greater appreciation and awareness of
the environment.

(4:) Existing State programs for nongame ﬁsh and
Wildlife species have been supported largely on the basis
of hunting and ﬁshing license revenues and excise taxes
on certain hunting and ﬁshing equipment. These tradi-
tional ﬁnancing mechanisms are not adequate to meet
the needs of programs for both nongame and game
species, and they must be supplemented.

(5) The States should be encouraged to develop,
expand, and maintain, in urban and nonurban areas,
programs for the conservation of nongame species of
native ﬁsh and Wildlife.

(1)) PURPOSE—It is the purpose of this Act——
(1) to provide ﬁnancial and technical assistance to

the States for the development, expansion, and mainte-

 




 

{DOOQCDUII-PDDNH

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24:

3

nance of conservation programs for nongame species of
native fish and wildlife; and

(2) to direct that all Federal departments and
agencies utilize this statutory and administrative author—
ity, to the maximum extent practicable, actively seek to
conserve and to promote conservation of nongame spe—
cies of native fish and wildlife and the habitats of such

species, in furtherance of the policy of this Act.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

As used in this Act:

(1) The terms “conserve”, “conserving”, and “con—
servation” mean to use, and the use of, methods or pro-
cedures which are necessary to insure, to the extent
practicable and desirable, the continued existence of pop—
ulations of nongame species of native ﬁsh and wildlife.
Such methods and procedures may include any activity
associated with scientiﬁc resources management, such as
research, census, law enforcement, habitat acquisition
and development, information and education, live trap-
pings, and transplantations.

(2) The term “ﬁsh and wildlife” means any mem-
ber of the animal kingdom, including without limitation
any species of mammal, bird, ﬁsh, reptile, amphibian,-

mollusk crustacean, arthropod, or other invertebrate

 

 

 

 




 

03

U1

8

10

1.1

13
14
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24

 

4:
which, with respect to a particular State, is native to
that State.

(3) The term “designated State agency” means-a
commission, department, division, or other unit of a State
government which is certiﬁed to possess legal authority
regarding nongame animals which occur in such State,
as required under subsection 5 (e) .

(4) The term “nongame species” means and in-
cludes wild mammals, birds, ﬁshes, reptiles, amphibians,
and invertebrate animals that (A) are not ordinarily
pursued, sought trapped or otherwise taken for sport,
food, or commercial purposes, (B) are not subject to
open seasons provided by law or regulation for such purg-
suit, seeking, taking, or trapping, (0) offer beneﬁts in
the form of cultural and scientiﬁc values or nonconsump+
tive recreation, and (D) are not an endangered species.

(5) The term “plan” means a comprehensive and
continuing program for the conservation and I‘Bllabllltaf
tion of nongame species of ﬁsh and wildlife under the:
jurisdiction of any State. Such plans may include a numi
ber of nongame wildlife projects.

(6) The term “project” means an undertaking de-:
signed to conserve or rehabilitate nongame species of ﬁsh:

and wildlife.

 




 

10

11

13
14
15
16
17
1.8
19
20
21
22
23

24

5

(7) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of
the Interior, directly or through the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service, as appropriate.

(8) The term “species” means, with respect to ﬁsh
or wildlife, any species, any subspecies, and any other
group of ﬁsh or wildlife of the same species or smaller
tax in common spatial arrangement which are capable
of interbreeding.

(9) The term “State” means any of the several
States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
I’uerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands,
Guam, the Commonwealth of the Mariana Islands, and
the Trust Territories of the Paciﬁc Islands.

SEC. 4. NONGAME FISH AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION

PROGRAM.

(a) PROGRAM—The Secretary shall cooperate with the
States in programs for the conservation of nongame species
of native ﬁsh and wildlife by providing, through designated
State agencies, ﬁnancial assistance to carry out approved
plans or projects for the conservation of such species. Such
assistance shall be provided pursuant to the formula set forth
in section 5 (c) and in accordance with the requirements of
sections5 (e) and (f).

(b) TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL AND EQUITPIVIEN'JT,——.-

 

 

 




 

 

bP-ODNH

CD CD 2 ~51 CD 01

10
11
12
13
14

16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
.23
:24.

6
The Secretary may, in assisting the States in carrying out
programs under subsection (a), assign or transfer personnel
and equipment and share scientiﬁc information, in such
manner as the Secretary deems appropriate.
SEC. 5. NONGAME FISH AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION
FUND.

(a) UNEXPENDED FUNDS—Any amount apportioned
to a State pursuant to subsection (b) Which is unexpended
or unobligated at the close of 2 ﬁscal years may be used by
the Secretary, during the succeeding 2 ﬁscal years, to assist
other States in carrying out approved nongame conservation
plans or projects. Any amount granted to any State under
this paragraph shall be supplemental to, and shall not be
charged against, any funds apportioned to such State under
subsection (c) . Any amount which is not paid or obligated by
the Secretary pursuant to this paragraph after the close of
the second such two-year period shall be made available for
expenditure by the Secretary in carrying out any program
administered by the Fish and Wildlife Service which serves
the nongame ﬁsh and Wildlife resource.

(b) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE—The Secretary may
use not to exceed 8 percent of funds appropriated pursuant
to this Act for the expenses incurred in administering this
Act, including the study authorized by section 10. Such sums

shall be available until the expiration of the next succeeding

 




 

$03M

00.30301

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
~ 23
24
25

7

ﬁscal year. If any such amount remains unexpcnded by the
Secretary at the close of such ﬁscal year, the Secretary shall,
within 60 days thereof, apportion such amount to State
agencies on the same basis and in the same manner as is
provided for other amounts authorized by subsection (c)
to be apportioned among the States for such ﬁscal year.

(c) APPORTIONMENT."T119 Secretary, after making
deductions under subsection (b), shall, subject to the provi-
sions of section 6, apportion the remaining appropriated funds
among the several States for each ﬁscal year in the following
manner: 7

(1) one—half in the ratio which the area of each
State bears to the area of all of the States; and
(2) one-half in the ratio which the pepulation of

each State bears to the population of all States; except

that no State shall receive less than one-half of 1 percent,

nor more than 5 percent, of the total amount. apportioned.

(d) CERTIFICATION .——For each ﬁscal year, the Secre-
tary shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury and to
each designated State agency the sum which the Secretary
has estimated to be deducted for the administration of this
Act under subsection (b) and the sum which the Secretary
has apportioned to each State.

(e) SUBMISSIONS AND OoNsn)nnATIoN.-— (1) If a

State wishes to avail itself of the beneﬁts of the Act, it shall

 

 




8

certify to the Secretary that it has a State agency (which

shall be identiﬁed) which has adequate statutory and admin-
istrative authority and the necessary resources and personnel
to conserve nongame species of native ﬁsh and Wildlife, and
it shall make submissions to the Secretary in accordance With
paragraph (L) or (8) . The Secretary shall consider any such
submissions and make determinations thereon pursuant to
paragraph (4) .

(2) The State shall prepare and sulunit a comprehensive
ﬁsh and Wildlife resource management plan to the Secretary,
with respect to the conservation of the native nongame
species under its jurisdiction. Any such plan shall—-

(A) be submitted in such form and With such con-
tent as the Secretary shall prescribe;

(13) include a description of all applicable methods
of conservation to be used in the plan and projects to
be carried out and projections as to possible future such
plans and projects;

(0) indicate the general chronological order in
which phases of the comprehensive plan should be
carried out over a period of years;

(D) be designed to perpetuate the species covered
for the cultural, esthetic, scientiﬁc, and recreational en-
richment of the State and its residents and Visitors;

(E) be based on the State’s projections as to the

 

 




 

10

11

18
14;
15
16
17

18

19

22

Q
L)

24
25

needs of such species and the desires and needs of its

residents and visitors for a period of not less than 15

years; and

(F) provide for such conservation for a period of 5
or more years, and shall include a provision for review
and revision at regular intervals, not to exceed 3 years.

(3) A State may elect instead to avail itself of the
beneﬁts of this section by preparing and sulnnitting a pro-
posal to the Secretary for a conservation project with respect
to one or more native nongame species. Any such proposal
shall be submitted in such form and With such content as
the Secretary shall prescribe and shall include a detailed
description of the project involved.

(1) The Secretary shall study and evaluate any sub-
mission received under paragraph (2) or (3). If the Score-
tary ﬁnds that a comprehensive plan submitted under para-
graph (2) or a project submitted under paragraph (3)
conforms to standards and criteria established by regulation
by the Secretary, such plan or project may be approved. In
the case of a project plan, the Secretary shall not grant ﬁnal
approval until the State furnishes such surveys, speciﬁ *ations,
and additional information as the Secretary requests, and
subject to the Secretary’s approval thereof. In the case of
a comprehensive plan, the Secretary shall condition approval
on substantiality of character and design. Upon approval,

S. 1140—~—-2

 




 

 

 

 

 

10
11
12
13
141

16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

25

10

the Secretary shall notify the designated State agency of
such State and shall immediately set aside, from funds ap—
portioned under this Act, up to ’75 percent of the cost of
implementing segments of any comprehensive plan involved
or of the total estimated cost of the project involved. The
non—Federal share may, in the discretion of the Secretary, be
provided by the State in the form of money, in—kind contri-
butions, or real property. In-kind contrilmtions may be in
the form of personal services rendered by volunteers who
possess qualifications, by training or experience, to assist in
surveys, censuses, or other scientiﬁc studies of nongame
species: Provided, That standards for the (pialiﬁcations of
such volunteers and the value of such in—kind services shall
be in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary
under this Act. The Value of any such real property shall be
determined by the Secretary, Whose decision shall be ﬁnal.

(5) If any Federal funds provided for an approved plan
or project are used or applied for any other purpose, the State
involved shall replace or return lsueh funds before it may
receive any additional apportiomnent under this Act.

(f) PROJECT on, PLAN FUNDING.—-(1) When the

Secretary ﬁnds that any project which is described in a com-

prehensive plan, or Which is approved, under subsection (e) ,
has been completed or, in the case of research relating to

nongame species, that it is being conducted, in compliance




[:0

03

Hi}.

07.46301

10

11

12

14
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24
25

11

with the Secretary’s speciﬁcations, the Secretary shall pay
the amount set aside for such project to the State involved.
The Secretarymay, in his discretion, make periodic payments
as such a project progresses; except that the amount of any
such periodic payment shall not exceed the United States pro
rata share of the project. If a, State has prepared a com-
prehensive plan under subsection (e) (1.), which has been
approved under subsection (c) (4) , the Secretary may, in
his discretion and under such rules and regulations as he
may prescribe, advance funds to such State for ﬁnancing the
United States pro rata share agreed upon between the
designated State agency and the Secretary. The Secretary
and the applicable designated State agency may jointly
decide at What times and in What amounts payment shall
be made under this Act. Such payments shall be made by
the Secretary to such ofﬁcial, ofﬁcials, or depository, as may
be designated by such agency in accordance with the laws
of such State.

(2) Any construct-ion work and labor performed in
conjunction with an approved plan or project shall be per-
formed in accordance with the laws of such State and under
the tirect supervision of the designated State agency, sub-

ject to the inspection and approval of the Secretary and in

accordance with the rules and regulations issued under this

Act.

 

 




 

 

N

03

10

11

13
14.
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23

24

 

12

(8) Administrative costs, in the form of overhead or
indirect costs for services provided by State central service
activities outside of a State agency having primary jurisdic—
tion over the nongame ﬁsh and Wildlife resources Of a State,
which may he charged against programs or projects sup-
ported l)y the fund, shall not exceed, in any ﬁscal year,
3 percent of the apportionment for such year to such State.

(4) Not more than 10 percent of the State’s share of I
program costs in any year may be from funds derived from
the sale of hunting, ﬁshing, and trapping licenses and permits.

(5) Not more than 25 percent of a State apportionment
under this Act may he used for information and education
programs, law enforcement, and extension services.

(g) INCREASED FEDERAL SHARE.———Whenever two or
more States have a common interest in a nongame species
of native ﬁsh and Wildlife and jointly undertake a program
or project agreement With the Secretary for conservation
of such species, the Federal share of the cost involved may
be up to 90 percent.

SEC. 6. PAYMENT OF FUNDS TO, AND COOPERATION WITH
RESPECT TO CERTAIN DESIGNATED AREAS.
The Secretary may cooperate with the Secretary of

Agriculture Of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Gover-

nor of Guam, the Governor of the Virgin Islands, the

 

 




19
20
21
22
23

24

13‘
Governor of American Samoa, and the Mayor of the District
of Columbia in the conduct of nongame ﬁsh and Wildlife
conservation programs. Any such program shall be con-
ducted pursuant to such terms and conditions as the Secre-
tary deems fair and equitable, and which are likely to be
effective for such purpose. The Secretary may apportion to
such jurisdictions, out of the money available for apportion-
ment under this Act, such sums as the Secretary shall deter-
mine ; except that such sums shall not exceed (1) for Puerto
Rico, one—half of 1 percent; (2) for Guam, one-sixth of 1
percent; (8) for the Virgin Islands, one-sixthof 1 percent;
(4) for American Samoa, one—sixth 0f 1 percent; (5) and
for the District of Columbia, one—half of 1 percent, of the
total amount apportioned for one year. The Secretary shall
not require any cooperating agency to pay an amount which
Will exceed 25 percent of the cost of the project involved.
Any unexpended or unobligated balance of any such appor-
tionment shall be available for expenditure in any such
jurisdiction in the succeeding ﬁscal year on any approved
project and, if unexpended or unobligated at the end of such
ﬁscal year, may be made available for expenditure by the
Secretary in carrying out any program administered by the

Fish and Wildlife Service Which serves the nongame Wild-

life resource.

 




 

 

14
SEC. 7. COOPERATION AND COORDINATION.

(a) IN GENERAL—All Federal departments and agen-
cies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate and
coordinate their programs and activities with the States in
establishing and maintaining programs fer the conservation
of nongame species of native ﬁsh and wildlife.

(b) REVIEW on EXISTING PROGRAMS—Each Federal
department and agency which has management authority
over land and water resources shall, within one year after
the date of enactment of this Act, review each of its exist—
ing programs for lands, waters, and interests in lands and
waters subject to its control or authority to determine which
of such programs, if any, can be extended er modiﬁed, with:
out jeopardizing the purposes 'of such programs, to include
the conservation of nongame species of native ﬁsh and wild—
life as authorized by this A-ct. Upon making an afﬁrmative
such determination, any such department or agency shall
notify the appropriate State agency and cooperate with such
agency in the establishment of conservation efforts with

respect to nongame species of native ﬁsh and wildlife.

(0) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS—All Federal depart-

ments and agencies are authorized to enter into cooperative
agreements with State agencies under subsection (b) . Each

such cooperative agreement shall—-

 




{aware-wank;

coco

10
11

12,

13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

15

(1) specify those areas in which such programs
will be implemented;

(2) provide, Where appropriate, for habitat im-
provements or modiﬁcations designed to conserve such
nongame species;

(3) provide, to the extent practicable, for educa-
tional and recreational programs to foster greater ap-
preciation and understanding of such nongame species;
and

(4) contain such other terms and conditions as
the Federal department or agency, or the State agency,
deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the dec-
laration of policy of this Act. ’

SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROPRIATIONS.

There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to carry
out the purposes of this Act for ﬁscal year 1978, the sum
of $20,000,000, for ﬁscal year 1979, the sum of $30,-
000,000, and for ﬁscal year 1980, the sum of $40,000,000.
SEC. 9. ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.

The Secretary is authorized to promulgate any rules and
regulations or any amendments to existing rules and regula-
tions or any amendments to existing rules and regulations
which are deemed necessary to carry out the provisions of

this Act.

 




  

[‘3

03

10

11
12

13

 

SEC. 10. STUDY.

The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service, in consultation with the Chairman of the Council
on Environmental Quality, shall conduct, out of funds avail—
able for the administration of this Act, such study or studies
as may be necessary to determine (1) the best means of
funding projects under this Act, and (2) ways and means
of coordinating the program authorized by this Act with
existing programs of the Fisl‘i and Wildlife Service involving
fish and wildlife. On or before the expiration of the 24-month
period following the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director shall report to the Congress the result of such study
or studies, together with his recommendations with respect

thereto.

 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    




95TH CONGRESS
ls’l‘ SESSION . 1 1 4O

 

 

A BILL

To encourage and assist the States to develop
improved programs for the conservation of
nongame species of native ﬁsh and Wildlife,
and for other purposes.

 

 

By B/Ir. GARY HART, Mr. ANDERSON, ‘Mr. BAKER,
Mr. BAYII, Mr. BUMPERS, Mr. CASE, Mr.
CHAFFEE, Mr. CULVER, Mr. HANSEN, Mr.
HUMPI—IREY, Mr. MGGOVERN, Mr. METCALF,
Mr. NELSON, Mr. RANDOLPH, Mr. RIEGLE, Mr.
SARBANES, Mr. STAFFORD, Mr. VVALLOP, and
311‘. ‘NILLIAMS

 

 

MARCH 28 (legislative day, FEBRUARY 21), 1977

Read twice and referred to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works

 

 




GARY HART COMMITTEES:
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES

PUBLIC WORKS
ytniieb $104125 ﬁenafe
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

January 12, 1978

Mrs. Winifred J. Dushbind
P.O. BOX 2
Woodove, California 94973

Dear Mrs. Dushbind:

Thank you for your recent letter in support of
.Senator William's bill, S. 818, which would curtail the
use of the steel jaw leg—hold trap.

I agree that the pain involved with this method
of trapping is unnecessary. In addition, there is the
potential danger to domestic animals and children, as
well as the possibility of accidental trapping to con—
sider.

It is expected that hearings will be held on this
legislation sometime this year. While I intend to read
the Committee report on this legislation before I make
my final decision, Iwant1c1pate voting,1n favor of this
bill when it comes to the fTOOr for a vote '" "
I apprec1ate hearing from you on this matter and
look forward to your continued correspondence.

.J ;., 1;..‘41‘15353-‘1 31“..
w ,£.:..,M., w, .4 mm. «a ..

 




GARY HART COMMITTEES:
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES
PUBLIC WORKS
SELECT COMMITTEE

‘ ’PJCnifeh ﬁfaies Senate o~

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

April 21, 1978

Mrs. Marian F. McAleenan
P.O. Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

Thank you for your letter expressing your concerns
with wild horses and burros and your support of spay—neu—
ter clinics.

As you may know, the Adopt-a-Horse program, set up
to solve the problems of over—population of feral horses
and burros, has met with very limited success. People
simply cannot assume the complication involved in trans-
portation, boarding and caring for the horses.

While I agree that giving away ownership may not
be the perfect solution, it is one of the alternatives
to uncontrolled multiplication, starvation and suffering
of the horses and burros. I am looking carefully at all
the possible means of assuring these animals a secure
and humane future.

I agree with your points on spay and neuter clinics
for dogs and cats. Effective legislation for controlling
population of pets is not only necessary but attainable,
both at the national and local levels.

Again, thanks for taking the time to write. I will
keep your views in mind when the legislation comes to the
Senate floor for vote.

Sincerely,

é.

U.S S

 




GARY HART
COLORADO

COMMITTEES:
ARMED SERVICES
PUBLIC WORKS

@Cnifeh ﬁfaiez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

November 2, 1978

Mrs. Clifford C. McAleenan
P.O. BOX 9939
Aspen, CO 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

Thank you for your recent letter expressing
your concerns with the seal hunts and the attempts
to amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act to allow
import of seal products. I share your concerns.

As you know, aside from negotiations with those
governments involved in the annual slaughter, the
ban on importing the seal products has been one of our
most effective actions against the seal hunts. I do
not feel that lifting the ban would be in the best
interests of U.S. citizens. I assure you that most
of the talk of lifting the ban has been by Canadian
lobbyists and not by our government.

Thanks again for writing. Be assured, I will
continue to carefully consider any legislation which
affects our position toward the Harp seal killings.

Sincerely,

 




GARY RART COMMI‘ITEES:
COLORADO ARMED SERVICES
I ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS

’PJCnifeh 33mm senate

WASHI NGTON. D.C. 20510

May 15, 1981

Mrs. Cliffod C. McAleenan
P. O. Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

Thanks for getting in touch with me about the use of animals
in research and testing. I appreciate hearing from you and would
like to explain my position on this issue.

Several bills have been introduced in Congress this session
which seek to require the Federal government to promote nonanimal
tests. Estimates of the number of animals used in research each
year in the United States alone go up to 100 million. Searches
for everything from new weapons to new makeups to a cure for
cancer involve animals. Indeed, animals have become a tool of
science, as important as the test tube itself.

Tests conducted on animals range from causing great pain to
the less dramatic. Many of these tests continue because Federal
regulations require them before products can be marketed. The
results from the Drazie test, for example, are required by the
Food and Drug Administration. Quite simply, the Federal
government takes the position that it is more desirable to test
products on animals than on the consumer.

Testing critics and proponents of legislation, however,
contend that neither the scientific community nor the government
has been sufficiently interested in finding new ways of testing.
Recently, these critics have included surprising numbers of
scientists. To the accusation that animals tests are immoral,
they have added the charge that many tests are so unreliable as
to be bad science. Better ways could be found, they argue, that
would be cheaper, more efficient and more humane.

A bill sponsored by Representative Roe, H.R. 556, seeks to
establish a National Center for Alternative Research in the
Department of Health and Human Services. This Center would
develop new testing and research methods which do not involve the
use of live animals, as well as administer training programs in
using these methods. This measure is pending action by the House
Energy and Commerce, and Science and Technology Committees. A

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




Page 2

Senate resolution sponsored by Senator Durenburger which
expresses the Senate's support for nonanimal testing and research
is pending action by the Environment and Public Works Committee.

Again, thanks for bringing this matter to my attention. My
staff and I will carefully examine nonanimal testing and research
legislation, keeping your views in mind. Let's stay in touch on
this and other important matters. *

Sincerely,

é7¥/ﬁ/

Ga y Ha t

 




GARY HART
COLORADo'

f

COMMITTEES:
ARMED SERVICES
ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
BUDGET

”PJCnifeb ﬁfafes ﬁenafe

WASH! NGTON, D.C. 20510

March 5, 1982

Mrs. G.T. Draper
General Delivery
Carmel, California 93921

Dear Mrs. Draper:

Thanks . - 7n.‘ our thoughts about reauthorization of

to
the Endangered ' It‘s good to hear from you.

As you know, the 1973 law directed Federal agencies to take
steps to prevent the extinction of plant and wildlife species.
Under the Act, the Interior and Commerce Departments were vested
with the authority to decide which species should be listed as en-
dangered or threatened. Interior's Fish and Wildlife Service
handles land species while Commerce's National Marine Fisheries
Service handles most marine species.

The Senate Environmental Pollution Subcommittee held over—
sight hearings on the reauthorization in early December and has
scheduled hearings on specific legislative proposals for March of
this year. I generally support the Act in its current form and
voted for the last amendments to the Act agreed upon in 1979.

It's helpful to have the benefit of your thoughts on this
and I'll certainly keep them in mind when the full Committee has
a chance to discuss the Endangered Species Act later this year.

Again, thanks for taking time to write. I hope you'll
continue to keep in touch in the coming months.

Sincerely,

4‘»? '//’v’/

G y Ha t

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

 




