National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports

 

Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD,

253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD.

 

NO. 78 BULLETIN, DECEMBER 1942

Fox-HUNTING IN 1942-3

The thanks of all opponents Of blood sports are once again due
Mr. W. Leach, M.P., for his action in giving publicity in the
House of Commons to certain facts in connection with fox-
hunting. Mr. Leach recently drew the attention of the Minister
Of Agriculture tO the 15 hunts who have declared their intention
to carry on during the coming season with no reports in the press.
He also pointed out that an estate owner in the Whitby area has
declared that foxes on his land must not be put down as he
proposes to keep them for hunting; that farmers in that area com-
plain Of loss of poultry and interference with lambing; that
hunting destroys crops and terriﬁes farm animals. The Minister’s
reply to his request that steps should be taken tO prohibit such
injury to the nation’s food supply was that no complaints had
been received from farmers.

The 15 hunts referred to by Mr. Leach are the Buccleuch,
Cleveland, Cotswold, Crawley and Horsham, South Devon, Four
Burrow, Middleton, Monmouth, Portman, Puckeridge, Silver-
ton, West Somerset, Stainton-dale, East Sussex and Woodland
Pytchley. ‘

WHO OWNS OUR WILD FAUNA?

Public opinion was recently strongly roused in Dublin by the
action of the Commissioners of Works in selling the deer in
Phoenix Park (a herd of about 800). to a contractor for slaughter
and export to England. Although the affairs Of Eire are not within
the scope of the activities of this Society, we cannot but applaud

 




 

the sentiments expressed in an editorial in The Cork Examiner
(7.9.42). The writer points out that Phoenix Park was intended
by the original donor primarily as a gift to the citizens of Dublin
and for the Irish people, and that whatever damage the deer may
have been guilty of —— and this was apparently negligible — they
are the property of the public and not of the Commissioners of
Public Works, who should realize that the sole reason for their
existence is to give the public What the public wants. At least
two prominent citizens offered to take part of the herd but the
Commissioners refused to consider the proposal. However the
ﬁnal outcome of the ﬁght of the people of Dublin for their rights
turns out on this occasion we were delighted to read that in spite
of elaborate precautions to ensure their capture, the deer foiled
the ﬁrst attempt to round them up by leaping a wall instead of
turning aside into a copse which had been carefully prepared
for their reception.

This episode reminds us of the attitude of the National Trust,
who, though acting as custodians of land given to the nation,
refused some while ago to listen to the Society’s reasoned protests
on this score, and presumably still permit killing for sport to take
place on lands whose wild life is as much the property of the
public as the earth which forms their native haunt. Except in the
special instances where the donor expressly states that hunting
or shooting (as is the case with deer-hunting on Exmoor) are to
continue we see no reason why privileged individuals should be
given the right to slaughter creatures which form part of the
national heritage. It is hoped that after the war public opinion
will induce the National Trust to withdraw all sporting rights on
lands under its control.

DEER HAMPERING FOOD PRODUCTION

On the other hand New Forest Farmers have been pleading
for the destruction of deer. A smallholder recently complained
before the Ancient Court of Verderers at Lyndhurst that deer are
hampering food production, claimin g that under the 900—year-old
Deer Removal Act the animals have no right to the open forest.
He asked that they should be shot, as they had caused £40 worth
of damage to his pasture. The deputy surveyor said that deer had




 

been destroyed at a rate of 200 a year for the last ﬁve years
in the Lyndhurst area, but that similar action had not been taken
in neighbouring districts. It was hoped to start a real campaign
against the animals after a meeting with the Pests Ofﬁcers of
Hampshire, Wiltshire and Dorset.

BADGERS IN ULSTER

From Northern Ireland comes the welcome news that steps
are now being taken in Ulster to protect badgers. The press
reports that Lord Claremont, former Minister of Education in
Northern Ireland, recently expressed his opinion that ‘Badgers
are often blamed for the depredations of foxes. I don’t think
they do any great damage among poultry. They are most useful
in keeping down rabbits, which are a pest in many places and cause
a lot of damage to crops.’

In this country also a more friendly attitude towards badgers
appears to be gaining ground. The Minister of Agriculture has
brought to the notice of Pests Ofﬁcers the undesirability of the
indiscriminate destruction of badgers, as they do more good than
harm.

‘ Fox PRESERVATION ’

The following letter under this heading, from Mrs. D. L.
Chapman, Hon. Secretary of our afﬁliated Society, the Oxford
and District Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports, appeared
in T he Manchester Guardian of 24th October last:

Sir, —— At the beginning of the war fox-hunters announced
their intention of carrying on utilitarian fox-hunting only,
with the genuine object of destroying foxes, not of preservmg
them. In some districts the War Agricultural Commlttees
adopted efﬁcient methods of fox destruction.

There is evidence, however, that in certain districts fox
preservation is still going on. A sporting writer has recently
admitted that one estate owner of his acquaintance has
declined to have the foxes on his estate put down, and further
states that ‘in spite of the clamouring for vulpiCIde’ there IS
no shortage of foxes.

 




 

It is clear that the only way to prevent this deliberate
breeding of pests is to eliminate fox-hunting entirely. Fox-
hunters who do not scruple to injure their country’s food
supply by keeping up the supply of foxes are on a level with
the dealers in the black market.

STOATS AND WEASELS

The following extracts from an article entitled ‘Allies of Home
Food Production’, by B. Melville Nicholas, published in The
Field (4.4.42) suggest a change of thought, if not of heart, on the
part of sportsmen with regard to the vexed question of ‘vermin’.
In peace time the latter term covered any species which might be
inimical'to the preservation of birds reared solely for sport, i.e.
grouse, partridge, pheasant, and certainly included stoats and
weasels. Now we ﬁnd the deﬁnition narrowed to include only
those species of birds and mammals which are likely to endanger
our food supply. The agriculturist, not the man who shoots for
sport, is at last in a position to decide which species should be
classed as ‘vermin’.

‘While it is true that some of the worst enemies of home food
production come from the wild creatures of the countryside
so from the same fraternity come some of our best allies. Fore-
most among these are stoats and weasels whose totalitarian war-
fare on rats, mice, rabbits, and voles will save millions of pounds
worth of crops from destruction by these rodents . . . Both these
little hedgerow bandits deserve every protection, for they are the
nation’s allies and render to our home food production a service
comparable to that of hundreds of farm labourers . . . And so
in war and peace, millions of furred and feathered allies will help
forward food production. If they are wantonly or indiscriminately
destroyed it will be a sad day for this country.’ This is exactly
what our Society has constantly insisted on.

We hope that with the inevitable rise of sporting interests after
the war game-preservers will continue to acknowledge the part
played in food production by economically useful creatures — in
war and peace.

Slatter & Rose, Ltd., Oxford

 




