No. 50, New Series] [35. 0d. per 100

Royal society for "It! PI'QVQIIIMII 0f CI‘IIQIIU t0 AllillllllS.

(Incorporated),
105, JERMYN STREET, LONDON, SW.

IN PRISON FOR LIFE.

From the water-colour drawing by Zl/Iiss Violet Burke.
Reproduced by kind permission of Mrs. Hugh Nicholson.

HE door closed, shutting him into a narrow, strongly-
barred cell. He did not yet realise that there was no
escape; that, ceaselessly, the sun rising and setting, ﬁlling
the country With light and beauty, would see him, day by day,
year by year, as long as life remained in his body, a helpless

 




 

2

captive, barred by iron bars and bolts from the world of
freedom, without a friend, and—most hapless lot—captive
among those who did not know even one word of his language.
For no fault that he was aware of was he thus imprisoned;
it was his hard fate, a fate that had overtaken him in a way
that made escape impossible.

He had always been an industrious fellow, up early, at
work as soon as daylight allowed him to set about it, and so
had provided for the wants of a large family. These little ones
and the bright, cheery wife who had helped him with all her
might he would never see again; for those who had him
prisoner had carried him far away to a land of strangers.
What they wanted with him he did not know, and, unable to
speak their language, he could not ﬁnd out. It was all a dread-
ful mystery. It was not meant that he should starve ; food
and water were brought to him daily; and when the jailer
came the poor prisoner would try to make it understood
how in the name of all that was merciful and humane he
implored to be set free. But the jailer was unmoved, and
possibly did not understand his actions or guess how deeply
despair and home-sickness were eating into his heart. At times
he raged up and down, beating against the strong walls of his
misery, but no one seemed to hear him or be touched by his
distress. He had never imagined what it would be to be de-
prived of freedom, to have only a tiny space in which to move
up and down, endlessly up and down, while outside the free
wind blew, the sunshine came and went, happy people thronged
the streets, laughing and talking to their neighbours. From
his barred window he could see the sky and some distant tree-
tops ; by pressing close against the bars he could get a glimpse
of the street below. He pined to be free, and the loss of exercise
and occupation began to tell on him, as it must on one in the
prime of life and health suddenly cut off from all work and
interests. He had loved the sunshine of the long summer
days, and in those happy days of freedom he had never minded
working through the heat ; but now, when the July sun
shone full into the prison, it seemed to burn him and he could
not escape from it, for the furniture was scant and did not even
give enough shade for him to creep into. The heat grew dread-
ful to him, and he sat and panted in the burning sunshine.
At last August came hot and dusty.




Cl

Early in the month a great holiday was held. The street
was noisy and crowded soon after dawn, and by mid-day it
was empty and silent. Evidently all the inhabitants were off
to the country. His heart felt like breaking as he thought of
the pleasant lanes and woods and ﬁelds to which these people
had gone. He had been too unhappy to think of his food;
and now, when the sultry heat made him thirsty, a dread
despair seized him, for he discovered that his jailer, who had
as usual brought his food supply for the day, had forgotten to
ﬁll his water-jar. Not a drop was left, for in the night, hot
and feverish, he had risen and emptied it. He listened eagerly
for any sound of life that he might try to attract attention and
so, perhaps, get the drink of water which he so greatly longed
for, but all was silent, the house was empty. Minute by minute
crept slowly by, the air grew more sultry ; parched with thirst,
he leant gasping against the bars. 80 the hours of torture
wore on, until he fell into a restless sleep. Dreaming of cool
streams bubbling over beds of greenest moss, he awoke to hear
the ﬂow of returning life in the city. He called through the
bars as well as he could with his parched and swollen throat,
but all the passers-by went gaily singing and shouting, full of
merriment after their holiday, and no one heard his weak cries.
Later on he heard sounds in the prison, and made no doubt
that his jailer would at last pay his wonted evening visit and
bring the longed for water.

What deadly horror seized him as he heard the steps
passing to the other side of the building. Shouting and singing
like the rest, the jailer went straight to bed, tired, no doubt,
by his day’s pleasure. The poor prisoner lay down to die ;
worn by constant fretting for home and freedom, enfeebled by
his inactive, cheerless life, his frame had wasted away, and as
the slowly creeping daylight came through the prison bars his
last breath was sighed out, and he left the world where he had
been placed by God to lead a happy and a useful life, but where
the thoughtless cruelty of man had doomed him to a miserable
lot and a dreadful death.

“ A strange story,” you say, “ can it be really true? ”
“ Yes, every word of it.”

“ Could any man living in this free country of England
meet with such cruel injustice and death ? ”

 




4

N 0, thank God ! no man could. The prisoner was a bird,
taken and put in a tiny cage, hung on the hot wall of a dusty
' street, his active wings, used to the freedom of the inﬁnite sky,
cramped into a few inches, that freedom which all creation
loves, taken, without justice, from him. His jailer was a lad,
Who in the excitement of a holiday forgot to supply the poor
little creature with water, for the lack of which he died. Hard
fate ! Cruel lot ! If any one doubts the cruelty of conﬁning
a joyous, happy bird ina cage, let him try the experiment on
himself, a far heavier, clumsier creature, not unwilling at times
to sit still. Let him stay for even one day in a room in which
there is no occupation for him, where a burning sun beats and
irritates him. Outside let him see the trees tossing freely in the
wind, people coming and going, gaily chattering in a language
that he cannot understand ; let him long to stretch his legs,
pine for a friend to speak to, depend on a thoughtless child
for food and drink ; only for one day, and he will, perhaps, pity ‘
a little the caged bird. Let those who encourage the trade in
caged birds remember that a bird’s natural life is one scene of
happy activity from daybreak to dark—incessant Search for
food for himself and his nestlings, joyous songs,-songs that are

to the attentive ear as unlike the songs of the prisoned bird as
are the dreary mechanical whistlings of a boy going unwilling
to school, to the shrill shouts of joy with which, school over, he
rushes to escape from it. G. F. P.

(Reprinted from “ The Animal World.”)

 

 

2,500. 12/32

 




