HUMANE SOCIETY OF WASHTENAW COUNTY
NEW ANIMAL SHELTER

. . . ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO
3113 CHERRY HILL ROAD Incorporated 1896 as o nonprofit organization for the

' . HUMANE SOCIETY OF
(ONE-THIRD MILE scum or: mxaoao) preventlon of cruelty to ommols WASH-ram“; COUNTY
TELEPHONE 2.031:

ROUTE NO. 2
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN

May 12, 1955

To the Voting Hembers of the Humane Society of
Washtenaw County:

The members of the Humane Society of
Washtenaw County are urged to read the attached report
of the activities of the organization for the year
April 1, 1954 to March 31, 1955.

The annual meeting of the Society will
be held at 7:45 19.11., May 24, 1955 (Tuesday), Q the
shelter, 3113 Cherry Hill Road. It is hoped that you
will be able to attend as we desire to have a large
attendance. If you have not recently visited the shelter
this is your chance to do so.

Kindly bring your copy of the annual
report with you to the meeting.

Sincerely yours,
‘/”'"P If r, "f A" ”/40

.l‘
.4?”
,"/ I), .>'

d
.e' x" '

Edward H. Kraus
President

 




H U'M A N E S O C I E T Y 0 F W A S H T E N A W C O U N T Y
April 1, 1954 to March 31, 1955

To the Voting Members of the Humane Society of Washtenaw County:

. Five years have passed since the Humane Society of Ann Arbor
changed its name to the Humane Society of Washtenaw County at the sug~
gestion of the generous donor of the new shelter, the Matthaei Foun—
dation. Since that time the Society’s good influence has extended
greatly. _It now takes charge of the homeless dogs in washtenaw County,
and especial emphas1s has been placed this year on improving conditions
for dogs in Willow Village where greater responsibility on the part of
owners is being urged. The township of Ypsilanti required that dogs in
Willow Village be confined to their owners premises for a three~month
period, and the Society is removing homeless animals to the shelter
where they may be placed in new homes, or, if in an advanced stage of
disease, have an end.put to their suffering.

- It has been possible to extend.help to animals outside of
Washtenaw County through the efforts of Herbert Gay, Shelter Manager,
who has assisted humane societies in both Monroe and Adrian in improv—
ing and expanding their work this year. In the livestock protection
field, cooperation with the Michigan Humane Society in Detroit now
makes it possible to force truckers heading for that city to put up
partitions between different species and ages of animals in accordance
with the Detroit ordinance. This prevents the bruising and accidental
trampling of the smaller, weaker animals which occurs so often in
unpartitioned loads. It is regrettable that there is no state law
prohibiting_such loads.

The following report gives in considerable detail the various
activities of the Society during the past year. The Board of Directors
is deeply grateful for the help of every member and hopes that each one
will continue, (1) to support the Society and its aims, (2) to report
all cases of cruelty observed, and (3) to encourage others to interest
themselves in the prevention of cruelty to animals.

Officers and.Members g: the Board 2: Directors

At the annual meeting of the Society, May 18, 1951+, two of
the four directors whose terms expired, Edward H. Kraus, and Miss iswfanwy
Lloyd, were re—elected. Sue Johe was elected to fill the vacancy caused
by the resignation of Frederick Nimke which was accepted with regret
as was also that of Arthur E. Wood who no longer lives in Washtenaw
County. Frederick Blicke was subsequently appointed by the Board to
replace Mr. Wood, which appointment must be confirmed at the annual
meeting. The present board of directors with expiration dates of their
terms is noted below:

, Terms expire 1955

Fanni Kaufmann, Daniel G. Quirk, Christine Stevens, Loren Campbell

Terms expire 1956
Lu Handy, Mildred Hatthaei, Atwood.HcAndrew, Jr., Benjamin'Wheeler

Terms expire 1957
Edward H. Kraus, Myfanwy Lloyd, Sue Johe, Frederick Blioke

The present officers are as follows: Edward H. Kraus, President
, Atwood.HcAndrew, Jr., Vice—Pres.
Christine Stevens, Secretary
Benjamin Wheeler, Treasurer

At the Shelter: Herbert Gay, Manager; Edith Marshall, Office Manager.
Membership

Many dog owners and others who were not members of the Society
were invited to enroll last December. The descriptive literature and
invitations to join were prepared under the direction of Miss Fanni
.Kaufmann, chairman, Hiss Hyfanwy Lloyd, Atwood McAndrew, Jr., Daniel
G. Quirk, Sue Johe, and Hrs. Roger Stevens. The committee was greatly

 




“2".

helped in addressing and mailing by a number of volunteers and the
Society is indebted to Mr. W} W. Snyder for his generous contribution
of much of the printed material.

An appealing puppy and kitten from the shelter were shown
on the cover of the leaflet which carried Christmas greetings and
urged kindness and humaneness towards all living things throughout
the year. An accompanying letter gave a brief resume of the humane
work carried out by the Society. As a result of this mailing, the

membership increased as follows:
125§~5u 135u~55

Associate members ($1.00 anually) 1%

Voting members ($3.00 anually) 20 350
Contributing members ($25.00 annually) 26 24
Life members ($100.00) 53 55

Many more members are wanted and needed.
ShelteIAActivities

The large amount of work carried out by the small staff at
the shelter can be judged to some extent from the statistics on the
cases handled which are given below. But only an examination of the
careful records kept on each individual case could give a clear idea
of the amount of suffering relieved, cruelty prevented or stopped when
brought to the Society's attention, and the amount of happiness created
when animals are adopted into homes or lost pets are found by anxious
owners through the agency of the shelter.

Host members are acquainted with those responsible for this
work. Er. Herbert Gay, Shelter Manager, and.Mrs. W. V} Marshall, Office
Hanager, both of whom have completed their sixth year of firstnrate
animal protective work with the Humane Society of washtenaw County, and
Mr. John Davis, Shelter Assistant, who has now completed his second
year with the Society in a kind and conscientious manner. Participation
in Social Security and a pension plan was discussed and is being inaug~
urated for these staff members. Mr. Harold Davis, with his wife and
children, occupy the Humane Society residence near the shelter. He is
going a fine job with part~time work in the shelter and the answering
of emergency calls after the regular hours.

Statistics on cases handled are as follows:
125§~54

Dogs received. . . . . . . . - . - - 4082
Cats received. . . . . . . . . . 2990
Dogs placed in new homes . . . . . . 1512
Cats placed in new homes . . . . . . . 555
Dogs restored to owners. . . . . . 195
Gate restored to owners. . . . - 29
Calls made to bring animals to he shelter . 1003
Boarding days for dogs . . . . . . 21,951
Boarding days for cats . . . . . . 12:17LL
Complaints of cruelty or neglec investiga

' O 0

G
I
O
O
O
O O C O O

O O O 0

e

d. 74

In addition to the investigation of complaints of cruelty,
the Shelter manager makes spot checks on livestock trucking through the
county, correcting abuses wherever he finds them. Eighty-one trucks
were stopped during the year for mixed loads. Riding stables, kennels,
fairs, and livestock auctions also are visited and.cruelty to or neglect
of many animals brought to an end.

The prevention of suffering among the dog and cat population
depends to a considerable extent upon preventing the birth of unwanted
puppies and kittens, and the Society appeals to all members to assist
it by urging the owners of female pets to have them spayed.

Humane Educatign

A new series of leaflets: Care 9: the DOR,_Qare g: the O t,
Care of Birds, Care g: Eisgu and.0are f Small Animals were made avai ~<
able this year to schools throughout Was tenaw County. As usual, these

publications were supplied without charge by the Society which continues

 




  

   
 

    

u 3 ~

to send Subscriptions to the monthly magazines, Our Dump Animals, and
the National Humane Review, to every school in the county. The monthly
humane paper with graded reading for elementary school is also dis—
tributed as are posters for the annual Be Kind to Animals Week in May.
Children visiting the shelter with their parents or with one of the
many bus loads of school children from all over the county, which make
guided tours, receive copies of You and Your Dog or Kittens and Gate to
take home with them. These shelter visits play an important part in
the humane education program carried on by teachers throughout the
Goun y.

The Department of Speech of the University of Michigan has
been responsible for presenting the Humane Society Pet Program for the
past two years. The Society is greatly indebted to the Department and
to Station WPAG which provides a fifteen minute spot each week without
charge. The program is supervised by Professor Edgar E. Willis and
directed by members of the Speech Department. Reading the Humane
Society scripts are the following students: Donald Streat, Virginia
Robertson, Donald Wylie, Paul Herlinger, Cari Wysocki, Mary Poore,
Nancy Renkenbergsr, Jerry Hockstad, and Gordon Mars, two of whom are
heard each Saturday at lO:H5 ANH. They have done a splendid job of
impressing humane ideas and bringing practical advice on animal care to
18 eners.

Open House

The success of the Open House held in 1953 led to a repetition
of the event in October, 1954. The sizeable number of visitors and the
enthusiasm they displayed in touring the shelter and learning about the
work of the Society in helping and protecting animals were most encour~
aging. The event was arranged by a committee with Myfanwy Lloyd and
Daniel G. Quirk as co—chairmen. ’

Rummage Sales

The rummage sale held in November at the Masonic Temple with
Mrs. Roy Lindsay of Plymouth and.Mrs. Herbert Johe as cc~chairmen
cleared nearly three hundred dollars and the Society is grateful to
the several members and friends of the Society who helped.make it a
success. A date has already been reserved for another such sale this
fall, Saturday, October g3, at the Masonic Temple, with Mrs. Herbert
Johe as chairman. We hope you will check this date on your calendar
and save all saleable merchandise that you may be wanting to be rid of
for this big event. The office at the shelter is glad to receive calls
at any time if you have rummage available and would like to have it
stored until the sale.

Publicity

The Directors are very grateful to the Ann Arbor News, the
Ypsilanti Press, and the other papers through the county for the reports
published on the animals at the shelter and on the activities of the
Humane Society. Some particularly fine photographs of "The Dog of the
Honth" taken at the shelter have been featured in the Ann Arbor News
and it was one of these that was reproduced on the cover of the Ohristma
greeting and invitation to membership sent out by the Society this year.
The Ypsilanti Press is always interested in receiving any special news
items concerning activities at the shelter and.many pets have gone into
homes as a result of this publicity. Stations WPAG and WHRV have very
kindly made spot announcements on the occasion of the Open House and Be
Kind to Animals Week.

A clipping from Greensville, South Carolina was received which
described the shelter of the Humane Society of washtenaw County as being
one of the two best in the country. Architects for the new shelter in
Greensville flew here last year to examine the building.

Meetings

In addition to the regular monthly meetings held by the Board
of Directors at the office of the President or at the shelter, repre—
sentatives of the Society have attended Mid~West Conferences of Humane
Societies in Cleveland, May 1954, and in Chicago, February 1955, the
annual convention of the American Humane Association in Atlanta,
Georgia, and a Michigan Federation of Humane Societies in Lansing.

 

 

 




_ u a
Audit
Following is a statement of receipts and expenditures,
April 1, 1954 to March 31, 1955 as given in the annual audit prepared
by Icerman, Johnson, and Hoffman:

Receipts:

Animal disposal and services:
General receipts
Washtenaw County
Ypsilanti
Ann Arbor
Calendar sales
Dues and memberships
Gifts
Interest on investments
Refunds
Rummage sale
U. 8. bonds ~ series G w matured
Transfer from savings account ~ Ann Arbor
Federal Savings and Loan Association

T011783. 11308113138; 0 o o o .0 o c o 0' o o I 0 O o

Disbursements:

Animal welfare

Auditing

Bank charges

Building maintenance and repairs
Calendars

Cleaning supplies

Dues and conventions

Fuel oil

Insurance

Legal

Miscellaneous

Office supplies, postage and printing
Operation of the gas chamber
Refunds

Salaries and wages

Schedule bond

Telephone

Transfer to A. A. Federal Savings & Loan Assoc.
Uniforms

Utilities

Vehicle operation

Yard and road maintenance

2,000.00

_52.0$

$23,635.35

$ 1,353910
60.0

1,02
#3

0

“1 , 2
603.22
32.00

176.48
70.29

9 3
3 6.57
212.85
200.02
786.75
127.82
16.00

12,261.01

20.00
368,22

2,000.00

. U
338 26

1,661329

61.60

TOta‘l disbursementg. o o c b a o o 0 o o o o 0 $22,318.13

Summary:

1253254

Receipts. . . . . . . . . .

$17,810.45 . .
Disbursements . . . . . . 18,217.20

0

I

O

1, ‘54
31. ‘

55

Apr.
Mar.

Cash balance, Apr. 1,"5 . . 1,313.43
Cash balance, Mar. 31, ‘5 . . . 906.68

0
O c

Any member desiring to review the audit may do so upon

request to the treasurer.

 




”5...

Finances

As the audit shows, the work of protecting animals in
Washtenaw County is supported by: (1) contributions and membership
fees; (2) contracts with washtenaw County and cities of Ann Arbor
and Ypsilanti; (3) adoption fees for animals placed in new homes;
(4) by rummage and calendar sales. The most careful economy is prac-
ticed throughout the whole of the Society's operation without, hows
ever, sacrificing the welfare of the animals involved.

Charitable contributions and membership fees are most
important sources of income for every humane society, for such gifts
and memberships mean moral support as well as financial aid, a combi~
nation which is absolutely essential to the advancement of humane
work. The generous help of members and friends will hasten the time
when cruelty, callousness and neglect no longer present the current
multiplicity of distressing problems in respect to helpless animals.

Beguests

By remembering the Humane Society in their wills, humani~
tarians have helped to assure the future of animal protective work
in Washtenaw County, and it is hoped that all friends of animals will
make such provision. In making a bequest, it is recommended that the
following form be used: "I give and bequeath the sum of
dollars to the Humane Society of Washtenan County, a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan, to
apply to the uses of said corporation."

 

Annua;_ﬁ§eting

The annual meeting of the Society will be held on Tuesday,
May 24, 1955, at 7:45 P.M. at the shelter. You are most cordially
invited to be present.

Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Board of Directors,

Edward H. Kraus, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

 




Ann arbor, Michigan
August 1, 1955

To the Honorable Board of Supervisors
Washtenaw County, Micnlnan

DGG COﬁTROL COMFITTEﬁ in?OHT
July 28, 1955

Whereas the Washtenaw County Board of Supervisors have from
time to time adopted resolutions for the purpose of making effective
the Michigan State Dog Law for Washtenaw County and have placed
directive control under the Dog Control Committee of the Board for
1955 it was considered essential that the Committee hold a meeting
for the purpose of ascertaining the resmlts beinaziccomplished by
the personnel engaged in carrying out the provisions of the Dog
Law and the various resolutions adopted by the Board.

The Dog Control Committee held a meeting on July 23, 195%,
at which time all members of tie committee were present with
reoresentation from the Sheriff's Office, the County Treasurers
Office and the Humane Society.

Progress so far in the 1955 program and suggestive improve-
ments for 1956 were of such importance that the committee deems it
proper to submit this report with the following recommendations:

1. That dog owners making applications for 1956 dog licenses
before March 1st shall pay a license fee of $1.00 for each male
dog or unsexed dog; and t2.00 for each female dog. If application
is made on or after March let, the sane shall be accompanied'by a
license fee 0f T3.OO for each male or unsexed dog and ﬁh.OO for sash
female dog.

2. That the requirements relative to proof of vaccination in
effect for 1055 be continued for 1956.

3. That the County Treasurer in co-operation with the lecal
collectors of dog license fees imnreve their work relative to
information required to be given onthe receipts.

A. That the County Treasurer provide sufficient receict books
and tags to all authorized collectors of dog license fees for 1956.

5. That the Township Supervisors and City Assessors in
co~oneration with the County Treasurer strictly comply with Section
16 of the Dog Law relative to the listing of Dogs in the assessment
districts.

6. That the County Treasurer provide listing books and
forms for all Township Supervisors and City assessors for the
listing of dogs.

7. That the Dog Control Committee investigate as to
possible improvements relative to vaccination of dogs in so far as
the Owners, Veterinarians, County Health Denartment, Humane Society

 




 




...
._
, _
x“

 




The wistful puppy on the front cover and the appealing kitten on
the back are two of the four thousand, six hundred and ninety-eight
homeless pets cared for by the Humane Society last year.

WITHOUT THE HUMANE SOCIETY these thousands of dependent
animals would have had no friend to turn to. The vast majority are
gentle, affectionate creatures whose sad plight is no fault of their own.

What would the lack of its Humane Society mean to
Washtenaw County?

WITHOUT THE HUMANE SOCIETY many dogs and cats would
have been abandoned to fend for themselves. The manner in which
many of them would have died or been killed would have been
agonizmg.

WITHOUT THE HUMANE SOCIETY many stray animals would be
wandering homeless, creating troublesome and sometimes dangerous
problems for farmers and city-dwellers alike.

WITHOUT THE HUMANE SOCIETY there would be no one trained
in animal protective work to rescue animals in distress or to investigate
alleged cruelty.

WITHOUT THE HUMANE SOCIETY a much larger proportion of
tax-funds would have to be allocated to agencies of local government
to deal with problems relating to all kinds of animals from stray horses
and pigs to stray dogs and cats, from neglected livestock to wild life
found in strange predicaments in the city.

WITHOUT THE HUMANE SOCIETY teachers in schools through-
out Washtenaw County would not receive a free supply of information
and curricular materials about animals which educators rank high for
their character-building qualities.

WITHOUT THE HUMANE SOCIETY many a child who is enjoying
the wonderful experience of a pet of his own would iust be wishing
or one.

How does the Humane Society work to solve animal
welfare problems?

Here are a few of the ways in which the Society strives to do a
huge iob on a limited budget and to make Washtenaw County and
neighboring communities better places for people and animals alike.

THE SHELTER is a model building whose leadership is established

by comfort for the animals and efficiency of operation. It is the gen-
erous gift of the Matthaei Foundation.

CITIZENS OF WASHTENAW COUNTY FROM EVERY WALK OF
LIFE make use of its services. They come to the shelter to adopt pets.
They bring stray or unwanted animals to the shelter. They call upon
the staff to help them with animal problems of all kinds.

THE COOPERATION BETWEEN CITIZENS AND THE SOCIETY
makes obsolete the old-fashioned dog-catcher-dog-pound system with
its attendant iniustices, suffering and extra expense.

ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS IS DECREASING because the
public has confidence in the kindness of the shelter staff. Only the
most thoughtless and hardened individuals still throw animals out of
the car on the roadside instead of bringing them to the shelter.

ANIMAL OWNERS ARE BECOMING MORE RESPONSIBLE. There
is still a long way to go to eliminate preventable suffering inflicted on
animals whether through carelessness, neglect, or malice, but the
investigation of improper treatment of animals by the Humane Officers
is effective in improving bad conditions and in preventing their recur-
rence. Very helpful are the weekly radio broadcasts known as the
“Pet Program” over Station WPAG and the cooperation of the news-
papers, especially the Ann Arbor News and the Ypsilanti Press. This
educational work is acting to prevent cruelty before it occurs.

SCHOOL CHILDREN ARE LEARNING KINDNESS in the classroom
where teachers like to use the booklets, magazines, and pictures sup-
plied by the Society. Over ﬁve thousand items are distributed by the
Society annually. More than fifty school groups paid enioyable visits
to the' Shelter last year.

Is the Human Society fulfilling its obligations?

Not nearly so completely as it should.

LIVESTOCK needs more protection badly. For example, in trans-
porting animals to market, many are bruised and trampled, and some
are killed because of callousness, ignorance, carelessness or hurry on
the part of truckers. In order to prevent or correct such conditions, more
time must be spent by the Humane Officers.

NEW HOMES FOR PETS should be visited by a Humane Officer
to ensure good care for every animal placed for adoption. At present,
such visits are limited in number owing to lack of time.

Care and feeding of the animals, their adoption, constant clean-
ing and maintenance of the shelter, record-keeping, telephone answer-
ing, response to calls for the investigation of cruelty complaints and _
for the rescue and collection of animals fill the time of the small staff.
Much voluntary work is done by members of the Board of Directors
and by friends of the Society. In order to carry ”out the services outlined
above and to deal more promptly with other calls, an additional staff
member is urgently needed. But funds are not available to make this
possible.

Are charitable contributions needed by the Humane Society?

Yes, very much. Last year only about 13 percent of the Society’s
financial support was received from tax funds. Without gifts and mem-
bership dues the fine animal shelter, the most generous gift the Society
has ever received in its fifty-six years of existence, could not be
operated.

Every citizen can be proud to be a member of_ the Society which
does so much to alleviate suffering, to encourage kindness and de-
cency, and to solve animal problems in ways which are both humane
and practical. You are earnestly urged to become a member. The
Humane Society of Washtenaw County and the animals it seeks to,
protect need your moral and financial support.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

EDWARD H. KRAUS .................................................................... President
ATWOOD R. McANDREW, Jr ............................................. Vice-President
BENJAMIN W. WHEELER ............................................................ Treasurer
CHRISTINE STEVENS .................................................................. Secretary
LOREN W. CAMPBELL MILDRED MATTHAEI
LU HANDY FREDERICK W. NIMKE
FANNI KAUFMANN DANIEL G. QUIRK, Jr.
MYFANWY LLOYD ARTHUR E. WOOD

STAFF

HERBERT GAY ................................................................ Shelter Manager
EDITH MARSHALL .......................................................... Office Manager
CHARLES WRIGHT .......................................................... Humane Officer

 




 

PINCKNEY/ HAMBURG 7/.

TO
STOCKBRIDGE

5%}

SYLVAN

CHURCH

BRIDGEWATERI

MANCHESTER

CLINTON

U
l |

4?

 

i

 

MILAN %

 

SOUTH LYON

 

TO
NORTHVILLE
ND
PLYMOUTH

FORD ROAD

SHELTER

 

 

CHERRY HHJ‘
ROAD

 

N
PROSPECT

 

I

RSILANTI

R040

 

.WILLIS

WHITTAKER

 

.OAKVILLE

 

 

MAR SHOWING LOCATION OF SHELTER

LISTEN TO THE ”PET PROGRAM” OVER STATION WPAG
EVERY SATURDAY AT 11:30 A.M.

 




TVHDVVAYS

WITH A
BULL

Course Provencale: Blanchet of Beaucaire scores a razet against Lou Craven.

By the courtesy of Photo
George, Aries.

BY MAJOR C. W. HUME, M.C., B.SC., R. Signals (Retd.)
Sbci déu Felibrige

 




 

 

 

Course Provencale: Chin Chei hooks Volle. By the courtesy of Photos

Gal de Provence, Carpen-
tras.

 

 




TWO WAYS WITH A BULL

By MAJOR C. W. HUME*

Bullﬁghts have been much publicized in Britain‘during recent
years, and many British tourists are attracted to them. Bullﬁghting
is a proﬁtable industry, but running costs are high and could not
be met, on the present scale at all events, without the gate money
contributed by foreign visitors. It is a curious fact that British
tourists who would be opposed to anything of the sort in Britain
readily support it overseas by paying for the most expensive seats
in the Plaza in Madrid or the Arenes in Arles, for instance.

ln Arles recently a French journalist put this question to me:
“In this city we greatly enjoy Spanish bullﬁghts, in which bulls
are killed in an unquestionably cruel way, and yet if one of us saw
a bull being slaughtered cruelly in the slaughterhouse he would be
the ﬁrst to protest. How do you explain that?”

A contrast with Provencal tradition

The Spanish corrida, which is given from time to time in certain
cities of Southern France by visiting Spanish teams, must not be
confused with the traditional Course Provencale. In the latter
no horses are used and maltreatment of the bulls, which have
names, is prohibited. The competitors (razeteurs) are amateurs,
not professionals, except that a prize worth a few pounds sterling
is awarded for each trophy snatched from the bull.

Unlike the bullﬁght, the Course Provencale is a clean, sporting
game in which both sides, bulls and humans, have an equal chance

 

*The author is a Sbci of the Felibrige, which was founded in 1854 by Frederic
Mistral of Maillane to conserve the Provencal language and customs; and is a
Sbci d’Ounour of Li Cardelin de Maiano (Maillane).

]

 




 

 

 

Course Provencale:

_ _ By the courtesy of Edi/inns
Dur Jumps the barrier.

Gal de Provence,
C arpemras.

and, as in rugby, any injuries are accidental and are regretted. The
crowd is not there to gloat over pain and blood but to see human
athletes pitting their speed and agility against taurine athletes,
who are the light, active black bulls from the Camargue. These
bulls enter into the spirit of the game and go for the man instead
of going for a cape or a muleta, as Spanish bulls are trained to do.

The game consists in snatching trophies called “cocardes”
from the horns of the bull. Two short ribbons of the colours of the
town in which the event takes place or of the manado to which the

2

 

 

 




 

1/

 

 

   
 
   

bull belongs are attached to the middle of a string or whipcord,
known as a “chasso”, which is rubbed with garlic to make it ﬁrmer
and more slippery; garlic contains a gluey substance in addition to
its other virtues. The string is fastened as close as possible to the
base of the horns so that it and the ends of the ribbons are buried in
the hair on the poll of the bull. Attaching the cocardes is a delicate
matter and is done by the oldest (not the highest in rank) of the
gardians of that manado, lying on planks just above the head of the
bull on a scaffolding when this is done in a toril, or between two
large farm carts if it is done in the open air.

Each bull is allowed a quarter of an hour to get away with his
cocarde, and each razeteur wears whites and plimsolls and may

  

éorrlda: El Paseo. By thé courtesy OfPhoto Estel,ParIS

carry a small appliance formed with ﬂat hooks for cutting the
string, but these must be so shaped that they will not scratch the
bull.

There are, however, a great many Spaniards, political refugees
and others, living in Languedoc, and many Languedociens also
have become aﬁcionados of the corrida since Napoleon III intro-
duced it to please his Spanish bride. Unlike the Course Provencalc

3

 




 

 

it is addressed to man’s lower nature. Frederic Mistral attended
only one corrida in his life.

The Corrida

This, in contrast with the Course Provencale, entails a cruel
death for six bulls. Each of these is slowly killed in three acts
called “tercios”, the object of which is to provoke him to attack the
cape or muleta; to wear him down with pain, fatigue and loss of
blood until the matador can kill him ostentatiously; and to make the
whole process last out so as to prolong the enjoyment of the
spectators. The performance is mounted like a ballet, with a band,
fancy costumes, and studied postures. The bull is always
killed eventually, but the bullﬁghters can shelter when necessary
in a space (callejon) behind a barricade or, in the ﬁrst tercio, behind
a horse. A bullﬁghter will, however, adopt certain postures
(desplante, manoletina etc.) designed to show off to the public how
brave he is and to satisfy their bloodthirstiness. Occasionally he
may be hurt; three were even killed in 1958. A friend of mine saw
in Mexico an act in which a bullﬁghter dressed as a statue posed
in the centre of the ring when a bull was ﬁrst let in. If the statue
had kept perfectly still the bull would not have touched him, but
at the last minute he lost his nerve and picked up his skirts and ran

for it, pursued by vengeance incarnate and the hilarious booing
of the crowd.

The onlookers enjoy the killing of the bull from a place of safety,
and if a matador has pleased them they vote him one or both ears
of the victim as a trophy. The ladies shower gifts and other favours
upon him. Unlike the Provencal sportsmen he is almost always
a professional and paid like a ﬁlm star.

The ﬁrst tercio
The ﬁrst tercio is that of the picadors, who are mounted; each

4

 




 

«vi/

 

is accompanied by a group (cuadrilla) of attendants carrying capes.
After the bull has been drawn with the capes for some time, a
picador (who should remain. in the outer third of the ring)
manoeuvres to thrust his lance into the withers of the animal.
The lance is formed with a stop to limit the depth of penetration
and so guard against premature death or disablement, but a second-
rate picador may twist it about so as to effect a deeper insertion,
or he may thrust it into the middle of the back or into a shoulder

 

Corrida, ﬁrst tercio. The bull is alternately played with the cape and wounded
With the lance. By the courtesy of Photo Estel, Paris.

so as to disable his opponent; such practices are disliked by the
aﬁcionados because they make the subsequent play too easy. In
the intervals between being repeatedly wounded in this way the bull
is again played with a cape, commonly by the maestro, in order to
tire it out and get it to hang its head.

The bull also charges the horses. Formerly these were
disembowelled frequently, and while some could be patched up and

5

 

 




 

 

used again others would be killed. Today an economy is effected
by using protective caparacons and normally the horses are only
bruised, so that they can be used more than once. Sometimes,
however, a bull manages to attack under the caparacon and wound
or disembowel a horse. The horses are blindfolded and it is said
that their vocal cords are cut to prevent screaming, though I have
no ﬁrst-hand evidence for the latter practice.

 

Corrida, ﬁrst tercio. By the courtesy of Photo George, Aries.

The Second Tercio

After the bull has been partially weakened by his pain, wounds,
and exertions, the picadors retire and leave the ﬁeld to the
banderillero, who is dismounted and may or may not be the maestro,
and the second tercio begins. The banderillero’s role is to inﬂict
further pain by planting three pairs of rods, 2 or 3 ft. long with
substantial barbed points, in the withers of the bull, already lacerated
by the lance. Some bulls will not ﬁght, and some run away; for these
animals black banderillas are used as a Sign of mourning for the

6

 




breeder. Formerly the practice of punishing such a bull by roasting
its shoulders with ﬁreworks was universal, and apparently it still
obtains to some extent.

 

Corrida, second tercio. In order to cause as much pain as possible, six banderillas
are inserted into the ﬂesh already wounded with the lance.
By the courtesy of Photo Estel, Paris

The Third Tercio

The third tercio is always taken by the leader of the team, known
as the “maestro”. He is dismounted and plays the bull with a
cloth smaller than the cape and known as a “muleta”. When the
bull is sufﬁciently exhausted, he attracts its head downwards towards
his muleta and tries to kill it with his sword. This is called “the
moment of truth” because of the keen enjoyment afforded to the

7

 




 

spectators by the death of a fellow creature. However, “the point
of penetration being narrow it is not uncommon for the point of the
sword to encounter bones of the skeleton of the bull; in this case
it is contra-indicated to give him the bird (sifﬂer) each time that the
torero makes an attempt to kill in accordance with the rules” (Paquito
Cantier, La Corrida d’Aujourd’hui, Nimes). Sometimes the bull has
to be ﬁnished off with a dagger (puntilla).

 

 

Corrida, th1rd tercio. Note the laceration of the shoulders and the stumbling

gait. The bull has been worn down by pain, fatigue and loss of blood till he has

become a pathetic mass of misery and can be killed with an ostentatious ﬂourish
unless the matador’s sword encounters a bone.

By the courtesy of Photo George, Aries.

Before killing the exhausted bull, the matador dedicates its death
to some favoured person. At the time of the Suez crisis a comic
cartoon in a Spanish paper showed a matador dedicating a bull
to naval ratings of the American Sixth Fleet who were present—-
“1n gratitude for their not having intervened”.

8




Where the pleasure comes in

Going back to the question put by my friend in Arles, we may
ask “Why do British tourists who would not think of maltreating an
animal at home help to maintain bullﬁghts by contributing their
gate money?” Spaniards are different: in spite of such admirable
national characteristics as a traditional courtesy, they unfortunately
have also a deep-rooted tradition of cruelty. The cruelty of the
Spanish Inquisition is proverbial, and the Marian persecution in
England was of Spanish inspiration. The conquistadors’ atrocities
in Peru are almost equally notorious. In Spain mules are driven with
sharp steel goads. Many of the village games, in addition to bull-
ﬁghts, entail savage maltreatment of animals, and a favourite
amusement of Spanish children is to torment small creatures in
quite horrifying ways. Small live birds tied to strings are sold in the
streets for this purpose. Even for children there is nothing in Spain
corresponding to our N.S.P.C.C. (Spaniards who excuse this
omission by alleging that there is no need for such protection in their
country would do well to address that observation to the Marines.)
In the last civil war Chalmers Mitchell, who was then President of
UFAW, spent his time in Spain trying to rescue partisans of each
side from the atrocities practised by the other.

Two centuries ago the English were almost as cruel to animals
as the Spaniards are today, but since then a humane tradition has
gradually been built up in our country. Spaniards twit us about
fox-hunting, but whatever one may think of fox-hunting the fact
remains that the fox does not disembowel any horses, 1101‘ is it
forced to run with six spikes stuck into its back after being lacerated
with lances. Why, then, do British tourists supPOl't bullﬁghts?
And Why is cruelty felt, like obscenity, to be reslDeCtable provided
it be carried out in an artistic way?

The same question was discussed by Tertullian in the second
century AD. He considered (De Spectaculis, XXI) the curious
fact that “the same man who shudders at the corpse of a person
dead in the course of nature gazes down in the amphitheatre very
willingly on bodies mangled, torn to pieces, and wallowing in their

9

 




 

own blood; the same man who comes to the show in order to give
his approval to the punishment of a murderer will with whips and
sticks compel a reluctant gladiator to commit murder; and the
same man who calls for a lion to be set on some notorious assassin
also demands that an atrocious gladiator be rewarded with a
discharge (rudem et pileum)”.

 

Corrida, third tercio. The matador eventually tries to pierce the heart, but may
insert his sword unsuccessfully several times.

By the courtesy ()fP/zom Esta], Paris.

Tertullian’s explanation was that the godless heathen had no
ﬁxed principles. Certainly in many people civilization seems to be
skin-deep and they go with the crowd, and any uncivilized instinct
which has been got under control by education can nevertheless
overpower their moral sense if it is strongly aroused. Of 3,630
persons who were convicted of rape, indecent assault, and other
sexual offences in Britain during the latter half of 1958, only 7 per

10

 

 




 

 

cent had any record of mental abnormality. That there is a sadistic
instinct latent in men’s worser selves is shown by, for instance, the
fact that when martyrs used to be burned at the stake, or criminals
hanged in public, crowds ﬂocked to enjoy the spectacle. In
the fourth century AD. St. Augustine’s friend Alypius was a good
young man who disapproved of gladiatorial shows, but one day
his latent sadism was suddenly aroused when he had been forcibly
dragged to the arena by some of his friends in Rome. He was such
a good young man that at ﬁrst he kept his eyes shut, but when
the fall of a gladiator brought a shout from the crowd “overcome by
curiosity he opened his eyes. And so soon as he saw the blood he
therewith drank down savageness; nor turned away, but ﬁxed his
eye, drinking in frenzy unawares, and was delighted with that
guilty ﬁght and intoxicated with that bloody pastime”. (Augustine,
Confessions, VI, 13). From that time onwards he became an
ardent aﬁcionado. and only lost his enthusiasm later on when he
became a Christian.

The pleasure afforded by watching a bullﬁght has been described
in lyrical terms by literary aﬁcionados. It is closely akin to sexual
aberration and, like some forms of the latter, lies in a dramatization
of dominance. Initially a good bull is a magniﬁcent ﬁghting animal
whose courage and vigour challenge the whole team arrayed against
him—picadors, banderillero and matador with all their attendants——
but gradually the prolonged pain, fatigue and loss of blood inﬂicted
by their combined efforts wear him down until he becomes a pathetic
mass of misery and can be ﬁnished off with an ostentatious ﬂourish,
unless the matador’s sword encounters a bone. All this affords
morbid pleasure in the cowardly, mean, vicious, hysterical and
unequivocally evil state of mind of those who, sitting in comfort
themselves, gloat at length over the whole disgusting exhibition of
sordid depravity.

The Thin End of the Wedge

The humane tradition which at present prevails in Britain has
taken more than a century and a half to build up, but it could be

11

 




 

 

dissipated in a shorter time. The growing fashion of glorifying
bullﬁghts, encouraged by the approval of reputable journals and
broadcasters and by the silence of the churches, may well prove to
be the thin end of the wedge.

 

Corrida, third tercio. Note the laceration of the shoulders.
By the courtesy of Photo George, Aries.

I am not suggesting that bull-ﬁghting is likely to be introduced
into Britain in the foreseeable future. The danger is subtler and
more insidious than that. The minds of our people are being
slowly but persistently conditioned to the idea that the pleasure
got by maltreating animals in the manner described above is an
admissible kind of pleasure. In this way the sense of moral res-
ponsibility for the fair treatment of our fellow creatures is being
gradually undermined.

12

 

 

 




 

 

The issue must not be side-tracked by any reference to hunting
I dislike hunting, have only hunted once in my life, and would on
ethical grounds abstain from hunting even if I could afford it.
But it is not honest to put hunting in the same category with bull-
ﬁghting, which gratiﬁes a totally different instinct.

A heavy burden of guilt rests on those editors, journalists and
broadcasters who little by little are teaching our people to approve
of sadism. Sadism is recognized by psychiatrists to be cognate with
sexual aberration, as in the case of the Comte de Sade himself.
The current gloriﬁcation of bull-ﬁghting is simultaneous with a
pornographic trend in literature and drama and with a rapid increase
in crimes of violence.

 

Corrida, third tercio. The puntilla. .The only act of mercy in the whole
entertainment.

By the courtesy of Etablissements J. Combier, Macon.

l3

 




A heavy burden of guilt rests, then, on those editors, journalists,
and broadcasters who little by little are teaching our people to call
evil good. It rests also on those who speak for religion but do not,
in this matter, boldy rebuke vice.

a. , m . . . ,1 ‘
Corrida, the arrastre. By the courtesy of Photo Estel, Paris

Published by

(1wa

7a Lamb’s Conduit Passage,
London, W.C.1

also distributed by

The Scottish Society for the

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
19 Melville Street, Edinburgh 3
and

The Ulster Society for the

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
65 May Street, Belfast l

 

PRINTED BY RUTHIEN PUBLICATIONS PRESS, 54, GRAFTON WAY, LONDON,

 




n
a
m
r
e
m
A
e
h
m...

logy Teacher

Blo

NOVEMBER

 

8

VOLUME 22. NO

I960

 

in the High School

1mentat10n

Animal Exper

 




 

 

 

New 1960 Editions

All of the Turtox Biochrome Charts were redrawn and new mlitions
were printed during the ﬁrst half of 1060. These are now 111 stock and
available for prompt shipment.

TURTOX
BIOCHROME
CHARTS

In offering these beautifully executed
colored wall charts, we feel that the series
constitutes the ﬁnest biological charts avail—
able at any price.

Consider these advantages:

Scientiﬁc Accuracy. Attained by having the
art work done by an artist with experi—
ence in biological work and having every
detail carefully checked by a competent
biologist.

Size 30 X 40 inches.

Natural Colors brought out on a black back-
ground.

Durable Construction. Permanent paints
(not inks) are used on a non—luster water-
proof background. Entire chart may be
wiped with damp cloth or cleaned with
wall paper cleaner.

Keyed. Small type used for keys on each
chart.

Economical. Compare the price of these with
other colored wall charts.

 

The Biochrome Charts available are:

ZOOLOGY T45 Clam T110

     
 
   
 

Mushrooms

T10 Ameba $gg $1131}: T115 Marchantia
T15 Grantia T60 Ferc T116 Moss
T20 Hydra rog T120 F

T75 Cat ern
T25 Starﬁs“ T90 Mit i T125 P'n
T30 Earthworm OS S l e
T35 Crayﬁsh BOTANY T130 Llly
T40 Grasshopper T105 Algae T140 Leaf Anatomy

Plain Charts
unmounted With Wooden In Metal:
Prices with 1/2 ” mar- rollers top Chart Head
gin at top and bottom with Tripod
Single charts ____________________________ $12.00 $12.75
Set of 6, any selection ____________________ 71.50 76.00 $75.00
Set of 12, any selection ___________________ 141.50 150.50 144.00
For more than 12 charts, add per chart ____ 11.75 12.50 12.25
In ordering, please be sure to specify type of mounting wanted.
mums/u
$ngé‘v'; 627

  

   

. IL w

XPRQEUETS GENERAL BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY HOUSE
\v Incorporated

, f 8200 South Hoyne Avenue, Chicago 20, Illinois

ﬁﬁ, The Sign of the Turtox Pledges Absolute Satisfaction

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The New Look in Science Education ............... 469
Ar+hur S. Flemming

The Process of Science .......................... 469
Orr E. Reynolds

Apologies for a SIIp 470

Plastic Skull .................................... 470

ALookaI‘BioIong 470

Small Animals in the Classroom .................. 47I
Die’rrich C. Smi+h

The American Biology Teacher EdiI'oriaI Staff ...... 477

Code for Use of Animals in High School

BiologyCourses........ 478
Survival in the Sea. 478
The Green DrInk 478

John Brainerd
The Abuse of Animals in +he Classroom and

How It Can Be Avoided. 479
Animal Welfare IninI'uIe
Some Feeding Problems Solved ................... 483
Sis’rer Mary Adelaide
Additional Reporfs on Experimen+a+ion ............ 484
A Solu’rion to the Live Animal Problem
in High School.............................. 485
Mary G. Gibbon
Biological Program of Spaceship .................. 486

Academician N. M. Sisakyan
New An’ri- Serum Destroys Sympathetic

NervousSysfem...... 488
Building Animal Cages and Containers

for Classroom Use. ... ....... 489

Paul W. Welliver

Looking Ahead in Science. ...... ....... 493
Fellowships .................................... 493
Dedication Ceremonies .......................... 493
Heredi+y by TV ................................. 493

Live Animal S’rudy in +he Beginning Zoology Course 494
A. M. HolmquiSIL

Radiation and High School Teaching .............. 496
Donald J. Fluke
Journal of Biology—I960” .. . . .. . 497
Repor’r on a Florida Science Study Program. .... . . . 498
Doris Timpano
Audio-Visual Repor‘I' ............................. 500
Conservation Publication ......................... 500
NewBiinographyH 500
Slippery Skins of Germs. 500
Chemical Trap. 500
Nominations for I96I Offimcers. ................... 50I
Book Reviews .. 504

 

 

cover Picture
This picture of a classroom scene was taken
by Paul Welliver in Roosevelt Jr. High
School, VVilliamsport, Penn, in connection
with his article carried elsewhere in this issue.

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY
TEACHER

National

 

Publication of the
Teachers.

Issued monthly during the school year from October to
May. Second class postage paid at Danville, Illinois.

Publication Ofﬁce—Interstate Press, 19 N. Jackson St.,
Danville, Ill.

Editor—PAUL KLINGE, Coordinator for School Science,
Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana.

mThe Indiana University address Will be the ofﬁcial editorial
0 cc.

Managing Editor—MURIEL BEUSCHLEIN,
mond, Chicago 29, Ill.

Subscriptions, renewals, and notices of change of address
should be sent to the Secretary-Treasurer, HERMAN KRAN-
ZER, Department of Education, Temple University, Philadel-
phia 22, Pennsylvania. Correspondence concerning advertising
should be sent to the Managing Editor.

Annual membership, including subscription, $6.00; sub-
scription to Journal, $6.00; individual copies $.80; outside
United States, $6.75; student membership, $2.00.

Association of Biology

6431 S. Rich-

THE SNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
BIOLOGY TEACHERS
INVITES YOU TO JOIN NOW

Solve Your Teaching Problems By Sharing
Them

6000 Other Teachers Now Enjoy—
New twists to demonstrations that are old

to them.

Hints on how to use the community as a
laboratory.

Excellent scources of useful ﬁlms and lit-
erature.

The advantage of learning about new teach-
ing techniques.

The privilege of publishing their ideas for
others to use.

The privilege of serving on committees in
their ﬁeld of interest.

Professional news.

Membership Includes
A. I. B. S. JOURNAL—5 ISSUES
THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER
—8 ISSUES
both for $6.00 per year.
Student membership—$2.00

 

EWWZW
MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION

 

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
BIOLOGY TEACHERS

 

 

 

Name
(PLEASE PR NT)
Address
Dues: $6.00 a year. including subscription to

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

For one year (8 issues)

THE AIBS BULLETIN

For one year (5 issues)

Send application to:
Herman Kranzer. SecreI‘ary-Treasurer
Depan‘mem‘ of Education.
Temple Universi’ry,
Philadelphia 22. Pennsylvania

WWW I1

 




 

 

 

 

   

 

AFTER THE FIRST TRIAL ORDER.

The 11 to 12 inch double injected fo1t' '11 pig is ;;11' 111. 11111 111 t111- 11111 positions we
regulally advertise, natural and 11ith l11§s 1x11111l1d ;1;11 1_1 1111111 1111;1111111111111111
and thoracic areas. Foetal pigs in both positio11s1'111 11; 11' '111 11 t1 11 111 1111 1111.1; and
are shipped in plastic bags in 11'11x111111l1'11t1111s.11111 1'; 111 111 111111111s11l 11'ith111
without the Odlaug dissection 1111111111 \11 111111 s 1111111111 1111 111 i1:11t too the
prices quoted on this page are 1111 1111111si11111111 t111111'111 1111 1-\t1'. 1s 1111 s1 111111‘s
are applicable only to quantiti1s in 11111lti1111 s 111 UN. \1t11'i1s ;11'1' 111j11t111 11itl1

red latex and the veins are injected with 1111111 latex.

1 Box (10) Natural Position 18531.5() \\'1111
1 Box (10) Extended Position $3531.30 With
2 Boxes (2 O)N Natural Position $53.81) \\'1111
2 Boxes (20) Extended Position $37.21) With
8 Boxes (80) atur 11 Position $80.71) With
2 Boxes (3 0) Extended Position $85.81) \\'1111
4 Boxes (40) Natural Position 8107. (it) \Yitli
4 Boxes (40) Extended Position 81]- 1.11) \\'1111
5 Boxes (50) Natural Position 81 30 ()1) \\'ith
5 Boxes (50) Extended Position 31‘ 38 ()(1 \\'i111
6 Boxes (60) Nat11r'1l Position 81 11.11) \\'1111
6 Boxes (60) Extend 11 Position 81(1.1.()()\\'ith
7 Boxes (70) Natural losition $180 (11) \\'1111
7 Boxes (70) Extend1dll’11sition $191. 80 \\'1111
8 Boxes (80) Naturall 1;iti1111 820) (1‘0 \\'1111
8 Boxes (80) Extended Position $218.10 \\'1111
9 Boxes (90) Natural Position $230.10 \Vith
9 Boxes (90) Extended Position $211. 80 \\'ith
10 Boxes (100) Natural Position 8235 ()0 \\'ith
10 Boxes (100) Extended Position $271. 00 \\'ith

iTAPBCiRLTJA SCIENCE INSTRUCTION THE ANATOMY OF THE MAMMAL IS VERY
NT WHY WASTE YOUR MONEY ON CATS? THE FOETAL PIG AND

THE ODLAUG MANUAL ARE THE BEST BUYS TODAY.

  

BIOLOGY TEACHERS ALL PREFER FOETAL PIGS OVER CATS
LARGE DOUBLE INJECTED
FOETAL PIGS 11 TO 12 INCHES LONG ARE IN GOOD SUPPLY
AND ARE ALWAYS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT.

.\I.11111.111 M11311
\1.11111.11'1 \ 18,3”
\1.11111.11\ \11‘._\()
\1.11111.1l\ “417,311
”111111.111 V1171)
.\t.11111.111 #1111151)
\1111111.11\ \1371111
\l.11111.11s *1 11.111
\1.11111.11s \1-1—1111)
\1.11111.1ls \111‘1111)
\1.11111.11\ \l\—>. 1H
\1.11111.11\ \1‘1711111
\1.11111.1ls \3171111
\t.11111.1i1 9.311511
\1.11111.11s \3171111
\1.11111.11\ 6171\111
\1.11111.11s \ _~1.1(1
\1.11111.11s \l\tl.\(i
\1111111.11\ S 31171111)
\1:lllll.ll\ S131111)

ORDER YOUR FOETAL PIGS NOW

FROM

BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH PRODUCTS CO.

243 West Root Street, Stockyards Station

Chicago 9, Illinois

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

CULTURES

Protozoa
Hydra
Planaria
Invertebrates
Vertebrates

LIVING BOTANICAL CU LTU RES

& MATERIALS

Algae
lnsectivorous Plants

Aquarium & Terrarium Assortments

PRESERVED MATERIAL

Zoology
Embryology
Skeletons
Botany

OUR I 4th YEAR

Connecticut Valley Biological

Supply Co.
Valley Road

Southampton, Massachusetts

OUALITY MATERIALS
DEPENDABLE SERVICE

LIVING ZOOLOGICAL

 

 

 

  

WARD'S MICROSCOPE SERVICE

Proper Maintenance and Repairs
Add Many Years to the Life of Your
Student Microscopes

WARD’S offers a complete maintenance and
repair service for all microscopes—cleaning, ad-
justing, lubrication, repairs. Replacement parts
readily and continuously available for B&L and
A0 instruments. Reﬁnishing done if desired.
Protect your investment in valuable microscopes
by sending them in for periodic servicing. Pro-
long instrument life, save money with Ward’s
4-Point Service:

1. On request, VVard’s will send packing ma-
terials and labels for shipping microscopes to us.
You pay only transportation.

2. Upon receipt of the microscopes, we exam-
ine them and send you a detailed estimate of
recommended work.

3. When you authorize us to proceed we
commence work immediately.

4. The microscopes will be returned to you
before the speciﬁed use date. Service date af-
ﬁxed to each microscope as handy reminder.
Permanent service record kept on each instru-
ment. We suggest regular servicing every 3 to
5 years.

Your microscopes will last longer with proper
servicing!

WARD'S Natural Science

Establishment, Inc.
P. O. Box I7l2—Rochester 3. New York

 

 

gen gea’w [tom now you I” be glad you [mug/It gull-alpaca

THE ORIGINAL “SAFETY FEATURE” MICROSCOPE
$l05.30 EACH

I". .:?;:*:J:z.:*.fs:’.;°az gml-atpgm
STUDENT MICROSCOPE

MODEL GBZA (WITH CONCAVE MIRROR)

ALL METAL CONSTRUCTION

INDEPENDENT FINE ADJUSTMENTS (NOT ONE THAT
ACTS ON THE COARSE ADJUSTMENT)

FIRST QUALITY MEDICAL OPTICS
|6mm OBJECTIVE (IOX) N.A. 0.27

 

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 

 

Model GB 2A

4mm OBJECTIVE (44X) N.A. 0.66

IOX HUYGHENIAN OCULAR
ELONGATED BASE TO PROTECT OBJECTIVES
SAFETY MOUNTING OF MIRROR

DISC DIAPHRAGM LIGHT CONTROL
Lower price ................... $I I7.00

In quantities of 5 or more. . . .Each l05.30

TRANSPORTATION INCLUDED

Or with substage illuminator instead of mirror . . . Same price.

THE GRAF-APSCO COMPANY

5868 Broadway

 

Chicago 40I Ill.

 

 

 

     

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

NOW READY!
Groups | and II

New DENOYER-GEPPERT SCIENCE CHARTS

New in plan 'organization ' purpose ° content

 

h 4 4.1”
DENOYER~GEI’I’ER'I SHIN! I. HRH \ EUC 5 X In COIOI'S

CIRCULAIORY SYSIEM DIGF‘3IIVI 5";TINI
7” Max‘- -:¢\'«.quw )9 Ms mm“ a» . , _ . .

mum mmmmmmm (v) MAR?

mum" «mm mm m AL; mm

(5 Mrygpv

  
   
     
   
   
   
 

f

065! Thu SUI-rice of Living Things

     
   

 

 

 

 

° ‘15,! I. I.iI«' 4m IcHIIl
W V“ 3 I’Itllll
jg)!" ‘ 3. I’I.ml (I l .~-.i|i('.1Iitm
.2371 ‘= .
Ii‘fz‘: {:A\__..-\ I. \Imlmi
13.17 '\ - "5
-M'» -- I \_ 1 —. . .. .
e smumm w 779' w: I -). \IIIIH [I ( II‘~\II1(‘;lIIHII
MM . :”-.,>«.-.zrz- . . ..
"5.4.- h I». (..HI» m H'».\ ‘,‘_¢‘H \III'Hgt‘H
FIRM r“. (Nit '
.15") 7. Hum 11: \. I\(Ill\ SysIr-m
“‘u 3.1"
.1 ‘ \ IInm.m \IIN'HIM‘ and
to": SI\'III.II \\\II'III\
It. IIHmu: ("iii whims :lmI
I)I'."'\.II‘.I \\\I<*III\
It). Illmmn III-spirutm'y. Lym—
" pImtit ,IIIII I'III(I()(‘I'III(‘
' 53 \I« III-
DGSI—9 Human Circulatory and Digestive Systems I I- I'M”

I ----------------- . I: II:'.|III| HHI SJIt‘IX
Iﬁlﬂéﬁ'ﬁ'i-iéi-{3§-2W‘iti't m. safe, }- Fai- RH» *-
t’mme some at}? w: Emmi

DGSH The SCivncr‘ ot the Earth
I. I’ir-lmc I II\IIII'}' HI IIH‘ ICurtIl

3. III!‘ I‘I‘IIIII .I\ ;[ SPIH‘I'P

3. IIt'IJIIHIhIIIIM HI, I‘IHI'III and

31111
I. \I.I]\\
.‘m. -
' J. IIIIH‘

I3. III\I(It’ IIH’ I"..11'III:11](II.11)'CTS
HI tIn- _\Iiil<>\pIH'r(‘

A ~. \VIIHI Ss \II’IIl\ HI IIH‘ I‘lzll‘th

‘3. (:Imliging SHI'IM‘U of tIlC
I'IilI‘IIl

It. II1H‘I\\ .HHI \Iim‘l'les‘

III. IIH(‘I\\ .IIHI SUI-IS

”Wscwm . ‘ I" “7”” "“ II” mirth
DGSlI—I Picture istory of the Earth

     

_. (:HHM‘I‘VJIIHH

For full information send for Circulars S310 and S3Ib

DENOYER-GEPPERT COMPANY

Charts ° Models .

5235 RAVENSWOOD AVENUE Micmsmm . Slides

'“ o‘ A 41 ELLINOIS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The New Look in Science Education

ARTHUR S. FLEMMING
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare

Elementary and secondary education in the
United States is in the midst of a healthy
ferment. Everywhere, we see new approaches
to curriculum development, new methods
of classroom teaching, and new ways of pre—
senting traditional subject matter.

This process of innovation is perhaps most
exciting—and most promising—in the ﬁeld of
science. In many schools at the high school
and junior high school level, experimentation
is supplementing lectures. Youngsters are
gaining a deeper understanding of the mean—
ing of inquiry, observation, and analysis—the
very essence of the scientiﬁc method.

Already high school science projects, fairs,
and similar undertakings have produced
impressive results. Our young students are
demonstrating great insight and keenness of
mind and are already making new contribu—
tions to scientiﬁc knowledge.

Certainly, such promise should be en—

couraged. It might well be extended, under

careful supervision, to as many scientiﬁc dis-
ciplines as possible. Appropriate research proj—

ects in the biological and social sciences can
be as exciting and rewarding to high school
students as experiments in the physical
sc1ences.

Animal experimentation is at the heart of
research in the biological and life sciences.
Considerable study, of course, needs to be
done on the extent and appropriate nature
of such experimentation at the junior and
senior high school levels. Many animal studies
are too complex for youngsters and, of course,
it is important for young students to be
thoroughly trained in the humane care of
laboratory animals. Thus, biological experi-
ments in secondary schools should be con-
ducted under very careful supervision and
guidance.

Nonetheless, I am conﬁdent that suitable
projects in this ﬁeld can be developed for
students in the junior and senior high schools.
Indeed, this kind of supervised training can
help develop a more profound appreciation of
the value and dignity of life. And it can help
advance a Vigorous brand of science education
in the United States.

 

The Process of Science

ORR E. REYNOLDS, Director
Office of Science, The Department of Defense

No threat to the national defense is greater
than the possibility that a potential enemy
nation might beat the United States to revo—
lutionary scientiﬁc discoveries that could tip
the balance of world power. Future dis—
coveries comparable to the discovery of
nuclear ﬁssion will take place. Will they take
place in the United States or elsewhere? The
security of the United States depends signiﬁ-
cantly upon the answer.

Scientiﬁc leadership must be, therefore, a
major element of over-all defense policy for
the United States.

It is the policy of the Department of
Defense to concern itself broadly with the
scientiﬁc resources of the nation.

469

National security is, however, but one of
the blessings of a fertile environment for
science in America. Science is the process
of obtaining factual knowledge about any
conceivable thing. Therefore every aspect of
life is or can be affected by science. Yet few
people understand the nature and the thrill-
ing potentials of science. Understanding
science should not be diﬂicult because the
fundamental motivation behind science has
been the yeast of human progress since
antiquity—the curiosity of man for knowl-
edge about himself and his environment.

In primitive societies explanations of
natural phenomena——including human be-
havior—was usually based on an assumption

 




 

 

 

470

of supernatural forces. The aTSlglnmiiihcii'i
supernatural causes. for. nanm Plc” 1' ”‘1
stemmed from the Imagination ofrman 1am
on his observations of nature: “105C .lm'"
scientiﬁc ideas are not greatlyditfcrent trpni
the hypotheses which constitute ilii“.‘tll?t.
step in scientiﬁc research. 1.l1e ditlttenu
between science and other processes of intel—
lectual invention is that to scientists an idea
is not regarded as a fact or as 1 truth until it
has met rigorous tests of validity. _

The scientist calls a raw idea a hypothem.
After the idea has gathered sound supporting
evidence it becomes known as a theory. ()nh'
after some kind of direct proof has been
demonstrated, is the precious label of “fact"
bestowed, and even that is tentative. Scientists
must always be willing to strip away the
credentials of a “fact” if new. conﬂicting
evidence appears.

So you see that the great contribution of
science to human knowledge is not the ability
to produce imaginative hypotheses. Rather it
is the methods by which the validity of
hypotheses can be tested by experiment.

Science highlights what is true in large
part by revealing what is not true; i. e.. \s'hat
has failed the validity checks. The experi-
mental methods of science free man from the
confusing maze of conﬂicting opinion. It is
as though the compasses b\' which
steered his various courses pointed
skelter in every way and science
ways to test compasses.

It .seems virtually certain th
continue to exert greater and
over our lives, which is to
as time goes on act more
basis of veriﬁable knowled
basis of fantasy.

I believe, therefore, that
not prepared for life in tl
without having actual e
idea-testing experimental
Selence education is inadequate if it
Imparts useful facts, ﬁgures, and other ideas
from the past. The student must become ac—

9 “can gain this acquamtance
only by COHdUCtlng careful experiments hi
self With his own ideas. ‘ 111-

When people deprecate the ﬁrst
experimental research of s
instance, that “cancer wi

man
helter—
provided

at science \\'ill
greater influence
say that man \\'ill
and more on the
ge and less on the

young people are
1e modern world
xperience with the
methods of science.

oan

inept
tudents and sav. for
ll not be conquered

Tm: AMERICAN lil()l.()(.'\' 'l tricinn

  

   

.Vm'cn/ber, 1960

 

in :1 high school or grade school laboratory,”
they have missed the entire point.

ll is ignorance of science «the greatest force
in the ‘llltuit‘l'll \\Hl'ltl that must be
(Int-111i in st‘lltml l.llH)l‘.llHl'lt'\.

COH-

 

Apologies for a Slip

'll1e \l;1\. limo, t'H\t'l' picture was labeled
”5 l)t'lll‘_1 ;1 t‘t'iiss st‘t'liutt til. ;I corn Sft‘lll. Several
alert punk-ls (pit-stunted this, and on the best

 

authorit\ \\t' c.1n illlll. it turns out to be a
crossscctintt til .ttt ‘ stem. The
l’.1ttl Ralston. Knoxville,
lti\\;1. Pl'tillllses lti t'll.lll}lk‘ ills Slitlt‘ l:ll)L‘l, and

asparagus
photographer. l7.

 

 

both he and the editor .ipologi/e for the mis-
take.
Plastic Skull

\natmnicalh correct .mtl easily disassem-
hlctl. an tinln'e.1ls.1lilt plastic. lile—si/e human .
skull lll;llst'\ possible tln sttnl\ ol the cranial

sninscs. i;1\\ structure,

c;1\'it\. n.1s.1l tttssatfts .
ctc. '(iotnplete \xith stintl. instruction. and
anaionn chart, it is priced at 54.0; postpﬂld
and .1\.iil.1l1le from tin I \llllllllki Scicnt‘thc C0.,
lull. \t’\\ .lk‘lwik.

 

llarrinu

 

 

 

A LOOK AT BIOLOGY

lo mam; l)l(1ltig\ is all so confusing.
“lust hard. coltl i'ieis not .1 bit amusing.
:\nd \'ct it is something .1l\\.1\'.s around us;
The bee. the tree. the‘t‘rog. and the tungU:
Don‘t Tltl‘ms up \‘Hlll' hands in CX'dSPCMt-lo
Over all these things \xith no set torn1at10n«
Look at that tree ind study its hzll'lﬁ

Find a turtle. and follow that lark.

Now You are studsin;t liiolHLIV right . 1
By using \'our nose. \onr e‘_]t‘:..'.lnkl your Slght'

Debbie White ‘

I l

      

 




 

 

 

A simple classroom demonstration involving
a study of some phase in the growth, develop—
ment, behavior, or reproduction of a pair of
white rats, guinea pigs, hamsters, or mice
can arouse enough curiosity, stimulate enough
interest, and present a great enough intellec-
tual challenge to hold the attention of a class
for months and to keep a teacher busy answer-
ing questions for the rest of the year. There
is no substitute for life, and a biology class
without living material is like a music class
without a piano. All manifestations of life
are fascinating and none should be neglected.
Flowers and fruits, frogs and ﬁsh, cocoons
and birds’ nests, all have a place in the class-
room, but none of these can be compared to
the appeal of a small mammal; warm, furry,
brighteyed, alive with curiosity one minute,
probing every nook and cranny of his cage,
and then curled up in sleep the next.

Such at least has been the experience of
the Maryland Society for Medical Research
which six years ago began placing small
mammals in selected classrooms throughout
the state and has by now sponsored over 650
animal projects in Maryland schools. With
this experience behind it, the Society is in
a position to evaluate its program critically.
In all this time there has not been one un-
toward incident, not one adverse word of
criticism regarding the conduct of the project
from those in a position to know what was
going on, teachers, parents, children, supervi-
sors, principals, and casual visitors and onlook—
ers. Quite the contrary, our ﬁles bulge with
letters of thanks and praise from the teachers
and students we have helped. We have charts,
graphs, tables, and protocols, some the work
of individual students, others the work of the
class as a whole, sent to us each year to show
us what has been done with our animals. All
in all, there has been no phase of our educa—
tional program which has proved to be more
rewarding and which has been received with
more thanks and appreciation. It is indeed

=’iSecretary, Maryland Society for Medical Re—
search, Professor of Physiology and Associate Dean,
School of Medicine, University of Maryland, 522 W.
Lombard St., Baltimore 1, Maryland.

Small Animals in the Classroom

DIETRICH C. SMITH,* University of Maryland, Baltimore

471

  

a privilege to render a service to such a
devoted and enthusiastic group of teachers.

The Society is an organization dedicated to
informing the public, particularly in Mary-
land, regarding medical research, what it has
done, how it has done it, and what it might
reasonably be expected to do in the future
if given the kind of support it needs. The key
role that animals have played and will continue
to play in the almost explosive expansion of
medical research characteristic of the past
ﬁfty years should be recognized and under-
stood. One of our basic goals is to further
this knowledge.

To do this effectively it seemed to us
that an appreciation of the basic concepts
of medical research on which our present
health standards rest and on which the con—
tinued conquest of disease depends should
be an integral part of every high school
biology course. This means the teacher must
be able to impart a knowledge of the broad
principles by which science operates, the
rigorous examination of data, the careful
plotting of controlled experiments, and the
stern discipline to which the scientist must
hold himself. The biological sciences follow
the same general procedures as do the
physical sciences with one important excep-
tion; they deal with living things. Life is
complex, and its manifestations not always
predictable, probably because our knowledge
is far from complete. But even so, great
progress has been made in controlling its
processes through the application of the ex-
perimental method. The essence of this method
is the ability to do an experiment in such
a way that under similar circumstances it can
be duplicated exactly as described. This
means precision in performance, careful plan—
ning, accurate recording of data, and above
all, the use of control experiments.

What better way to illustrate these basic
procedures than by doing a simple animal
experiment in the classroom? In fact, this
approach is so obvious and so appealing that
it must occur spontaneously every year to
thousands of teachers, many of whom attempt
to implement their idea immediately, not.

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

472 THE AMERICAN lltoioov 'l‘rxeurn

always with favorable results. The wrde-
spread interest in this area pomts up the need
for control, regulation, and above all, a mech—
anism for giving practical adv1ce.

Anyone who has ever worked in a medical
research laboratory is sooner or later asked
to lend, give or even sell a rat, mouse, or a
guinea pig to some enterprising teacher with
whom he may or ma not be personally
acquainted. The Maryland Society for Medi-
cal Research was no exception; in fact, the
number of requests was such that it was
obvious some policy would have to be adopted
to deal with it. Thus our Small Animal Class-
room Project was born, for, recognizing the
need and realizing the necessity for keeping
the enthusiasm of potential biologists within
reasonable bounds, the Society decided in
1955 to put the placement of animals on some
other basis than a casual, informal one. The
response was immediate and enthusiastic, un—
assisted by any fanfare, ballyhoo, or pub-
licity, it grew steadily until today it is one
of our major activities. '

This is the way it works. A teacher wishing
animals ﬁles an application indicating tlfe
animals he wishes and the type of expefiment
he intends to perform. On the application, the
choice of the experiment is limited to either
a simple dietary experiment on a vitamin
deﬁciency, thiamine in the rat, or ascorbic
ac1d in the guinea pig, or a genetic experiment
on the inheritance of albinism in mice. Learn-
ing experiments with rats or mice, involving
the use of a maze, have also been tried with
success. Time has shown this choice to be
more than adequate, and it is not necessarv
to promote sensational experiments, such as
placing mice in rockets, attempting to repeat
surgical experiments, or trying to ﬁnd a cure
for cancer. In fact, such experiments should
be done at the high school level only with
great caution and under careful supervision
lest. they lead to unfortunate results and un-
deSirable publicity. They should never be
undertaken unless they can be continuall r
superVised by a well qualiﬁed biologist. it
is because of the danger of abuses that the
Society feels it essential that they try to
bring some order and reason into what
could easily become a chaotic situation if

not guided by hands experienced in animal
experimentation.

.\'0-:'e///l)er, 1960

;\ll teachers requesting a project must Sign
the following agreement:

“I agree tltat at all times it will he luv responsi-
l)llll\' it» see that the animals entrusted io mv care
are properly treated and housed in accordance
with enclosed eopv of ‘( .‘uiding Principles in the
l'se of .\niiuals lav Secondarv Schools,’ and that;
no experiment will lH‘ performed upon them other
than autliori/ed liv the \l \l{\'l.,\.\'l) S()(lll“,TY
l5()l{ .\ll‘l)l(.'.\l. Rl’Sl \l{( fll and that directions
for the expct‘itttent supplied lr\ tltc .\l.S..\l.R. will
he Illctlt‘tllnllslv l.(lll(l\‘v(‘tl iH nt'tlt‘l‘ It) :l\'()ltl SllfTCI'-
ing l)\' the animals. It is also understood that the
.\l‘.S..\'l.l{. assumes no responsiliilitv for any prop-
erty damage or personal iniurv that might be
caused l)\' the animal. I also agree that a repre-
sentative-of the \l.S.\l.l{. shall have the privilege
of visiting lll\' classroom during hours arranged
with tne itt advance to oliseive how the project is
progressing. I understand I .uu to call the .\l.S..\l.R.
if the animals l)L‘(‘t)lllL‘ sielt. injured. or if I need
anv advice regarding their care. disposal or the
performance of the experiment. 'l'he MARY-
l..\_\l) S()( fll' l\' l7()l{ \ll l)l(I\l. Rl".Sl"..-\RCH
shall have the right to eop_v and reproduce at their
expense anv of the data olitained or any photo—
graphs taken of the experiments.”

.\'o experiment involvinH dangerous

g g drugs,
chemicals, radioactive isotopes‘ or carcinogens
has ever been approved. nor is it likelv to be.
The societv feels that the classroom is not
the place for projects of this tvpe which
should instead. if performed liv students, b6
done in the l:ll)()l‘;ll't)l'\' of a qualified investi-
gator where he can e\ercise dav to day
supervision. Note that the agreement requn‘eS
adherence to the “(iuiding l’rinctples in The
V - . . k s ‘3?
Lse ()f .-\ntmals llv Secondarv Schools 3.5
approved l)\' the \ational Research (.oth11
and the National ;\cadent\' of Sciences. 1 hCSC
Guiding Principles are as follows:
“l. The basic aim of seientitie studies that lll\'()lVC
ammals is to achieve an understanding of lth. and
to advance our knowledge of the processes of life.
such studies lead It) a respect ftit‘ life. .
3. ;\ qualified adult supervisor must assume pri—
marv responsiliilitv for the purposes and conditions
”f any CXperiment that involves living animals“
3. .\o experiment should lie undertaken that 111—
volvcs anesthetic drugs. surgical procedures. path—
ogenic organisms. toxicological products. carculO‘
gens. or radiation, unless a biologist. phys1c1ani
dcntlﬁf. 0r veterinarian trained in the experimentar
procedure involved assumes direct responSIbilltl
for the proper conduct of the experiment. ' h
4. Any experiment must he performed with t6
animal under appropriate anesthesia it the paurlﬂ‘
volved is greater than that attending anesthetiza—
tion. d
5. The comfort of the animal used in an}: Stu V
shall be a prime concern of the student imCSt1
gator. Gentle handling. proper feeding. and pro‘

 

 




   

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vol. 22, N0. 8

vision of appropriate sanitary quarters shall be
strictly observed at all times. Any experiment in
nutritional deﬁciency may proceed only to the
point where symptoms of the deﬁciency appear.
Appropriate measures shall then be taken to cor—
rect the deﬁciency, or the animal killed by humane
methods.

6. All animals used must be lawfully acquired in
accordance with state and local laws.

7. Experimental animals should not be carried over
school vacation periods unless adequate housing is
provided and a qualiﬁed caretaker is assigned spe-
ciﬁc duties of care and feeding.”

However, it should not be thought we are
completely rigid in the matter of “off—beat”
experiments or unsympathetic toward any-
thing but the tried and true. If by chance a
teacher wishes to elect something else than
stated in the application, a project proposal
can be submitted with the application. If it is
feasible, if it does not violate any of the
principles regulating proper care of animals,
and if the teacher has had sufﬁcient back—
ground in biology to inspire conﬁdence in his
ability to carry through such a project, animals
will be supplied, food and special diets pro—
vided when available, and all other possible
assistance given, including suggestions as to
what scientists in the area might be approached
for expert guidance and help.

Such projects serve well in encouraging
potential research biologists, and they should
be given all assistance possible. Often times
they win prizes at science fairs and attract
a great deal of favorable publicity, but be—
cause they are usually done by one student
working on his own, they are limited in scope
so far as bringing home the facts of animal
experimentation to all of the students in a
classroom or a school. For this purpose the

 

wax-s :::: , ' ' I 5.

Figure 1. Students inspecting a guinea pig preparatory
to beginning dietary study.

 

 

 

SMALL ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM 473

  

   

Figure 2. Weighing the subject of a nutrition experi—
ment.

simpler types of experiments are much more
rewarding since they become a joint coopera-
tive classroom exercise. They can be under—
taken with a reasonable expectation of success
and at the same time teach some basic prin-
ciples regarding controlled experimentation
and the humane care of animals.

Once a project has been set up in the
classroom, the Society does not feel that it
can now proceed to forget it. Quite the
contrary, we acknowledge a continuing re—
sponsibility and to discharge this obligation
we have established a Visiting Committee, one
member of which visits each classroom in the
immediate area at least once during the year
to observe how the project is progressing and
to offer help and advice if needed. In addi—
tion, the teachers are encouraged to call us at
any time if assistance is needed, and there are
many who do, and at the end of the year to
submit a report on what was accomplished.
In this way we have accumulated an impres—
sive collection of growth curves, pedigree
charts, pictures, and records which keep us
well informed about what is being done.

Not only are the teachers supplied with
animals and food but also with complete
directions for the care and feeding of the
animals entrusted to them, as well as complete
directions for performing the experiment
chosen, and for making whatever equipment
is needed. Except for a good kitchen scale
which should read to a fraction of an ounce,
or better yet be calibrated to read in grams,
all of the equipment required can be made
easily and cheaply. The manufacture of cages
poses no problem, and directions for making

  




 

 

 

 

474

 

Figure 3. Recording data for a nutrition eXperiment.

these are supplied to all teachers. Hardware
cloth and tin pie plates serve very nicely as
raw materials and can be put together in
the proper fashion by even the least mechan-
ically inclined individual. Glass aquarium
bowls make excellent homes for mice. Even
bird cages of one kind or another have been
used on occasion. Bedding can be obtained
from a variety of sources if wooden shavings
are not available. Old newspapers, paper
towels, toilet paper, and even string all make
excellent nesting material. In fact, setting up
and equipping the experiment becomes one of
the more challenging and interesting features
of the work, and it is often amazing as well
as very heartening to see the ingenuity and
skill which goes into such efforts.

The effects of a small animal in a classroom
are many and not always immediately appar-
ent. The most important objective is to give
the student some understanding as to how
science works, particularly what it can and
cannot do, and how important it is to plan
carefully if valid results are to be achieved.
A broad understanding of the scientiﬁc meth-
od, its limitations, is an educational respon-
sibility with high priority in our society today,
and it is certainly not too early to begin in-
struction in this area in the high school
classrooms. Onthe one hand, many of our
Citizens fear scrence and scientists, while on
the other, many—and the two classes do not
exclude each other—look to science to solve
all our problems from over-population to
cancer.. Obv1ously a small animal project is
not gomg to bring about insight and com-
prehensmn to all overnight, but it will serve
to bring home to many some of the techniques

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY Tmcmck

   
 

N ()‘1‘07111267‘, I 960 i

used in animal experimentation and perhaps
stimulate a few to pursue the matter further.

In doing a dietary experiment the growth
of one or more pairs of carefully selected
animals is observed and recorded. No exper-
iment appears to be simpler, yet there are
pitfalls. l’irst of all, it should be established
that the control and experimental animals
both grow at the same rate on the same diet
and under the same environmental conditions.
It is surprising how often this simple elemen-
tary fact is overlooked and a preliminary
series of observations not made on the animals.
()nce the experiment is in progress is any
observed dill'erence in growth actually due to
the difference in diet? If the animals have
been kept together in a single cage does the
necessary separation to insure that they get
separate diets in itself introduce a new factor
into the environmental situation that might
or might not affect growth? ls anv decrease
in growth rate in the experimental animal
the result of the absence of some nutritional
factor, or is it due to some change in the
palatability of the diet? Is the ell‘ect reversible?
This last question should present no difﬁculties
if the experimental animal is placed on the
adequate diet, and the control on the in—
adequate dict after the ell‘ect on weight is
clearly developed in the first. The teacher
is always cautioned to continue the exper—
iment onlv to the point where a difference
in growth is noticeable. and above all, not to
permit the experiment to proceed to the point
where lesions mav occur or where paraIySIS
may set in. Finally. do both animals grow in
a normal fashion 'after thev have both expe-
rienced a period on a deﬁcient dict?

g ’ R’skfw‘g‘?‘ if. F‘ e _. \. s , \~

 

‘ if¢j<t ‘
Figure 4. Plotting a growth curve.

 




   

 

 

 

 

  

Vol. 22, N0. 8

Such an experiment as this requires careful
planning and takes at least three months to
perform successfully. Students in any class-
room where this has been done will certainly
have an appreciation of the thought and
preparation that is required to bring such a
project to a successful conclusion. Here of
course the teacher plays an important role in
pointing out the necessity for such care as
well as the signiﬁcance and importance of con-
trol experiments.

There are two types of experiments on
simple dietary deﬁciencies that are relatively
easy to perform within the time available
to the average classroom. One is the study
of thiamine deﬁciency which usually mani-
fests itself by loss of appetite and weight loss
in a rat within two to three weeks after
going on the diet. The deﬁcient diet is easy
to make by placing ordinary rat pellets in an
autoclave under steam pressure for about ﬁve
hours. This actually can be done in an ordinary
steam pressure cooker by anyone who has
a reasonable understanding of how to pro-
ceed. In practice, however, the Society sup—
plies for the experiment, along with the rats,
autoclaved pellets in which thiamine has been
destroyed. The other dietary project is an
ascorbic acid deﬁciency study in guinea pigs
performed by feeding guinea pigs a pellet diet
unsupplemented by fresh green leaf vegeta-
bles. Most pellet diets for guinea pigs either
do not contain ascorbic acid or contain it in
inadequate amounts because the heating and
subsequent drying of the alfalfa from which
the pellets are made destroys the ascorbic
acid. Thus guinea pigs kept on a pellet diet
are always given a supplement of greens if
they are to stay in good health. Consequently,
a pair of guinea pigs, one on pellets alone,
and one on pellets plus lettuce, will usually
show a divergence in growth within two to
three weeks. If they do not, it is probably
because the pellets contain enough ascorbic
acid to prevent a weight loss. If this is so the
difﬁculty can usually be remedied by drying
the pellets in a hot oven for several hours or
exposing them to the direct rays of the sun
for the same length of time. Again, the:
experiment should proceed only to the point
where there is a clear cut difference in weight
between experimental animal and control.

SMALL ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM

 

Figure 5. A Science Fair prize for a genetic experi-
ment on albinism in mice.

When this is established the diets should be
reversed.

Another type of classroom project which
is simple to perform, since it does not involve
any sort of experimental procedure other
than letting nature take its course and which
takes several months to perform, is of course
a genetic experiment. A classroom is supplied
with a pair of mice, one an albino, and the
other a brown or black coated animal heter-
ogygous for albinism. The Society breeds
such animals and keeps a stock on hand.
If the two are mated there should be among
the progeny, according to the Mendelian
laws of inheritance, an equal number of
albino and dark coated mice, and, within the
limits of probability, such is usually the case.
We can also supply an albino mouse and a
mouse homogygous for black or brown coat,
and by breeding such a pair, and obtaining
all black or brown progeny, and then in—
breeding these, it can be shown how a reces-
sive character appears in the second generation
after being completely hidden in the ﬁrst.
Other types of matings are also possible, such
as homozygous brown crossed with a heter—
ogygous brown.

There is no need to dwell on the interest
which a prospective litter of mice will arouse
in a classroom .nor the satisfaction and even
pride in their ultimate arrival. Once on the
scene, there is ample opportunity to discuss
their growth, watch the gradual appearance
of fur, the opening of the eyes, the ﬁrst
awkward attempts to walk, and the ﬁnal
attainment of complete independence and

  

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
    
  
  
  

     




 

 

 

47 6*

adulthood. These progeny in turn can be bred
as soon as they matured, usually in elght to
ten weeks, and so the whole cycle of mam-
malian reproduction is open for demonstrauon.
If such an experiment is begun early enough
in the school year, there will be t1me to
breed several generations and to work out
the inheritance of albinism in various genetic
combinations.

Besides the immediate purpose of the exper-
iment, other lessons can be learned as well,
not the least of which is the proper care of
animals, knowledge which can be applied by
the students to their own pets at home. All
children keep pets at some time or other in
their lives, and most parents are only too well
aware that these same children can be woefully
irresponsible when it comes to seeing their
pets are properly housed and fed. We do not
pretend a small animal classroom project will
automatically correct this state of affairs, but
it certainly affords an opportunity for the
teacher to bring home to the child some
elementary principles regarding animal care.
There is also the added excitement and in-
terest in an experiment that involves a living
animal. Children come to be concerned about
their charges in a manner quite different
from what they feel about a chemical reaction
in a test tube, the motion of a pendulum, or
the dried up exoskeleton of a crayﬁsh, impor-
tant as these things may be. Here is a wonder-
ful opportunity to teach the principles of
humane care of animals, to bring home the
thought that no one is more concerned about
this than the research scientist, who uite
apart from his natural sympathy, knows the
success of his investigations depends upon good
health in his animal colony.

Then too a small animal project points up
the necessity of careful planning and think-
ing ahead. The organization of the experi—
mental team is important. Who is responsible
for cleaning and feeding, who is responsible
for weighing, who keeps the record and plots
the graphs? Such tasks should be, and usually
are, rotated among the students so that all will
have a share in all phases of the investigation.
From time to time there should be informal
progress reports and discussions of the data
to date. When the project is complete a
formal presentation of the data before the
ent1re class, or even the entire school, with

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY Tmcmcu

i\7()’l‘c”llll)(’7‘, I960

charts and graphs carefully worked up, is a
real challenge to some enterprising and prom-
ising person in the group and should be under—
taken if at all possible.

li‘inallv, anyone who has ever done scientiﬁc
investigatioir knows that research does not
always run smoothly. Animals get sick, they
die, they do not behave in the manner ex—
pected of them. 'l‘he records may get mixed
up, directions are 1nisinterpreted, a sudden
snow storm may close the schools for a day or
two. All these-things. and many others,'can
happen, and preparations must. be made to
deal with them when they occur and to guard
against their happening in the first place.
One false move may destroy the validity of
months of work. ()nly careful planning, un-
remitting eaution. and constant vigilance will
insure a successful outcome. This in itself
is a lesson of great value. and even if an
experiment should “fail." much can be learned
from the attempt. If nothing else, it should
dispel any idea scientists get their results
by waving magic wands. Sometimes the ﬁnal
report of an experiment sounds deceptively
simple, so much so in fact. that it makes
research seem easv. ()n the other hand, some
people attribute an esoteric quality to research
beyond the reach of the ordinary mind, and
projects such as these should idispel such
ideas since they show that the application
of thought and common sense will make the
basic principals involved comprehensible.

In spite of all of these obvious virtues there
are unfortunately those who violently object
to placing small animals in the classroom.
Nothing seems to arouse the fury of the
antivivisectionists and their fellow travellers
more. Many of these latter are estimable but
misguided people who loudly profess their
devotion to medical research but who some-
how, whenever the chips are down. are found
on the side of those who would cripple It
with unfavorable legislation. Recently articles
have appeared in national magazines by jour—
nalists who seem to have bc‘en taken in by
these people, either through misguided Z631
on their part. or by failing to resist the
temptation to write 11 sensational if grossly
dlstorted story. There is little point in 311'
swering such articles directly. The Maryland
Society for Medical Research believes th6
facts should speak for themselves. and they




Vol. 22, N0. 8

point with pride to their own experience in
placing animals in the classroom. This is an
area that requires careful thought and intel—
ligent planning as do any areas which involve
the education of the young. Such planning
and thought have not been neglected, and
numerous scientiﬁc groups are giving this
problem their serious attention. Among them
are the National Research Council and the Na-
tional Science Foundation, the American Insti-
tute of Biological Sciences and the National
Society for Medical Research. Certainly Amer—
ican youth should not be deprived of the satis-
faction and the beneﬁts that come from the
study of the living mammal because some
people who do not know what they are talk—
ing about become overly vocal in their opposi—
tion.

This is not the time to hamper the teaching
of biology. There is no doubt we are caught
up in the forces of a great scientiﬁc revolu—
tion which has changed the lives of all us in
the western world more in the last ﬁfty
years than in all previously recorded history.

Furthermore, this scientiﬁc revolution has Just

SMALL ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM

477

begun, and if its early fruits do not destroy
mankind in the immediate future, there is
no predicting to what heights or depths it
will ultimatel lead him. Man is on the
threshold of space; the peaceful use of
atomic energy is in his grasp. In the biological
fields we have just begun to feel the effects
of the population explosion, a product in a
large measure of medical research and its
application to public health and preventive
medicine. In all probability organ transplants
are just around the corner if the immunolog-
ical problems are solved as they probably will
be, and the era of artiﬁcial organs is already
upon us. New drugs will appear which will
so alter and control man’s physical and
mental makeup that the mind shudders at
the possible implications if their control falls
into the improper hands. The biochemist is
rapidly unravelling the structure of the chem—
ical compounds responsible for the transmis-
sion of hereditary traits, and he may very
well be on the threshold of protein synthesis
and the creation of life itself. The ability to
understand, let alone manage, these develop—

 

Editorial Matters:

Assistant Editors:

Regional Editors:

Advertising and Promotion:
Newsletter:

Subscriptions, Mailing, and Budget:

 

The American Biology Teacher
Editorial Staff

Editor: Paul Klinge, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana

Style Guide: John Breukelman, Kansas State Teachers College, Emporia, Kansas

Index: John Woolever, Sarasota High School, Sarasota, Florida

Book Reviews: John Hamilton, Park College, Parkville, Missouri

Filler: William Kastrinos, Glen Bard High School, Glen Ellyn, Illinois

Audio-Visual: Richard Fox, Redwoods Community High School, Peoria Heights, Illinois
Biology-in-the-News: Brother Charles, St. Mary's College, Winona, Minnesota

Health Education: Virgil Heniser, Howe High School, Indianapolis, Indiana

Frances L. Behnke, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York 27, New York
John G. Navarra, Jersey City State College, Jersey City 5, New Jersey

Irving Keene, Weston High School, Weston, Massachusetts

Edith Curry, 8465 La Mesa Boulevard, La Mesa,
Katherine Hertzka, H84 Beech Valley Road, N. E., Atlanta 6, Georgia

David Fagle, Marshalltown High School, Marshalltown, Iowa

Joseph Novak, Purdue University, Lafayette, Indiana

David Lockard, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania

Managing Editor: Muriel Beuschlein, Chicago Teachers College, Chicago 21, Illinois
Editor: Frances Gourley, LaPorte High School, LaPorte, Indiana

Secretary-Treasurer: Herman Kranzer, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

California

 

 

 




 

478

ments will require a citizenry with a sound
education in science and its techniques. A]-
ready the gulf between the seientist and th)e
nonscientist is beginning to Widen. L. 1.
Snow has eloquently called attention to the
gap between these two groups .and calls. upon
the western world to close this gap With all

THE AMERICAN Btoiottv 'l'imuauvu

N (member, 1960

possible speed it- it \\ishes to survive.1 The
diltV “f the biologist is clear; he must do all
he can to broaden the understanding of his
seienee among all elements of our population.

‘Snow. (1" p” '[‘/_w 'l'-;;~u (TH/Hirer and t/Je Scientiﬁc
Raw/miun, (Iambridge l'mwrsitv Press, New York,
I959.

 

Code for Use of Animals in High School

Biology Courses“

The ﬁrst aim of demonstrations that involve
animals in high school science courses is to
achieve an understanding of life processes.
Such studies lead to a sympathetic respect for
life. A second aim of animal studies is to
provide future citizens with some knowledge
of the principles of health, disease, and
medicine, and of some aspects of agriculture.
In addition, by achieving these goals. some
students are motivated to become the medical
and biological scientists of the future.

Experiments which are useful for high
school students are not necessarilv the same
as those which would be done in a universitv
or medical school. Much can be learned about
life processes from microorganisms and plants;
invertebrates and cold-blooded vertebrates
can be used for many animal studies in high
schools, but birds and mammals are essential
to the demonstration of certain concepts be-
cause of their closer similarities to man. The
same guiding principle of respect for life in
the use of animals for the welfare of man
should. apply in the study of all living objects.
1nclud1ng the conservation of usefulbplants.

All observations on animals must be per—
formed m a humane fashion and anesthetics
used. as appropriate for the kind of organism.
the intactness of the animal, and the tape of
observation. '

.To guarantee that students
spirit of humane treatment of
qualiﬁed adult supervisor must assui
responsrbility for planning and
demonstrations involving intact liv
Such supervision must extend to

room and extracurricular projects.

acquire the
animals. a
ne primarv
conduct of
ing animals.
both class—

. 1 hese prinCiples have been promulgated bv a spe—
c1a committee With Professor Ladd Prosse'r

versity of Illinois, as ch ' V -
endorsement of the AlBigrman' The} 113W the full

l’roper quarters and eare must be provided
at all times. ineluding \aeation periods. Stu-
dents should be instrueted iii the principles
of humane treatment of animals, and training
in the proper handling of animals .should be
a part of the preparation of all high school
biologv teachers.

 

Survival in the Sea

.\larine seienee. understanding how various
forms of life adapt themselves to an under-
water environment in the eternal struggle for
survival. is the theme of the newest NICT Film
Service series. “.S'Hrz'tzxt/ in the Sea.” Th6
four Sit—minute films are designed for use 111
mill] school and College biology Classes and
to} general adult groups. 'l‘itles iii the series
are: “lb/Jere [amt/hind ”Titer .Ueer; 0/] the
RW‘A‘N: Ule 0/! t/Je (fa/nil Reef; and The Life
(Ire/e.

The series is available in either colorOOI‘
black and white from \l‘i'l‘ li‘ilin SethCC,
Audio-Visual (Ienter. Indiana University’
Bloomington, Indiana. The purchase prices
are $12): for blaek and white. and $250 f0f
color prints.

 

The Green Drink

There once was an alga. Chlorella.
.~\ Bostonian grew in his cella.
His braiiiv idear
\Vas to mix it with beer
To give to his lrish maid. Ella.
(in case vou haven‘t noticed. 3
Bostonian is verv apt to leave Off
a ﬁnal “r onlv to sneak it out-
landishlv onto the end of 501116
unsuspecting \vordf) .
john Brainerd




 
 

 

 

 

The Abuse of Animals in the Classroom and

How It Can Be Avoided

Animal Welfare Institute, New York

Dr. Chauncey D. Leake, Professor of
Pharmacology at Ohio State University,
recently wrote: “It seems to me that it is
wise to avoid getting our youngsters so en—
thused over biological sciences that they are
anxious to undertake extensive animal experi—
mentation without the background, the ex—
perience, the judgment, or the wisdom that is
necessary in handling animals appropriately
for complicated biological experimentation. In
other words, I think we had better continue
to learn the hard way: there is plenty of bi-
ology to be gotten from a study of unicellular
organisms that can be readily obtained in any
high school laboratory, and handled and fol—
lowed with skill and convenience. We are apt
to get into trouble using animals.”

Sensationalism in the teaching of high school
biology seems to us to be on the increase. No
doubt the majority of our teachers avoid the
practices listed below, but there are numerous
cases of educators, possibly unable to convey
the intellectual interest of their subject by
more conscientious means, encouraging chil-
dren to make cruel and pseudo-scientiﬁc ex-
periments paralleling whatever ﬁeld of research
is receiving popular publicity at the time.

Following are examples of the type of pain—
ful and uncreative experimentation to which
our organization is opposed. Pupils have been
taught to “make routine transfer of cancer
cells peritioneally in mice,” and a machine
has been devised to force mice to inhale high
concentrations of tobacco smoke and pepper
in connection with the national enquiry,
“Does smoking cause lung cancer.” Objections
might also be raised to certain experiments by
which “the effects of radiation on rats are
determined,” especially since the students con—
cerned have not yet mastered the anatomy
and physiology of the rats they are destroying.
Again, at the height of the Sputnik publicity,
children were taught to detonate home—made
rockets containing mice, and here, while the
making of the rocket may have familiarized
the children with some “principles of me—
chanics, the inclusion of the mouse, the thing
that gave the project its glamor, had no sort

479

of justiﬁcation. As the New Y 07/3 Herald
Tribune commented: “Let youngsters ﬁre off
tiny Sputniks if they can. But why imprison
a mouse, or any living creature in one, if no
knowledge is to be yielded by its death?
Killing a mouse, suddenly, may be necessary
to prudent housekeeping. Subjecting one need—
lessly to 3,284 feet of . . . terror shows little
reverence for life. If increased interest in sci-
ence is to lead merely to greater callousness,
the world will not have moved ahead.”

To criticize such misplaced attempts as the
high school research projects described above
is not to suggest that all animal life be excluded
from the biology classroom. The judicious
introduction of some forms of life can be a
valuable teaching asset. Students will take a
keener interest in the forms they are studying
if they have an opportunity to observe them
in life. They can be led to develop responsibil-
ity for animals kept in the classroom; pros—
pective scientists must be made to realize that
a normal healthy condition in the research
animal is the sine qua non of an authentic
biological experiment, and that it is a part of
the scientist’s job to see that his animals are
well kept. All students may be trained to
make careful and precise observations of the
physical form and of the habit or movements
of the species they are shown. The importance
of a well developed technique of observation
in biology can hardly be overestimated. Many
important discoveries were not the result of
hypothesis and experiment but were instead
chance observations by trained observers. Sir
Alexander Fleming’s discovery of penicillin
is a recent example. Interest, responsibility,
and a technique of observation may be culti—
vated in students with the help of animal life
kept in the classroom.1 The major problem
is the selection of suitable forms.

1Students may be interested to read some works
on animal behavior by such distinguished observers
as Tinbergen, Lorenz, Eckstein, von Frisch, Fabre,
J. S. Harley, and others. The Animal Welfare In-
stitute is preparing a pamphlet which will include a
select bibliography of the writings on behavior most
useful to the high school student.

   

  




 

480

Many teachers and scientists agree that
some important principles of biologycan be
taught successfully with the help of llve unl—
cellular organisms such as protozoa, yeast, and
bacteria. Colonies of ants, or, in rural areas,
of bees, may be especially housed for class ob-
servation. The study of genetics is well illus-
trated by breeding the fruit-ﬂy, Drosopbila.
Higher forms, such as reptiles, mammals, and
birds, may be kept for general observation;
however, the dissection of dead specimens,
supplemented with models and ﬁlmstrips,
should suﬂice to give the student a working
knowledge of their anatomy and physiology.
Crude experiments involving surgery or stress
are not the training students need. Respect
for living things, sound judgment, reliability,
and a technique of observation will go further
towards making competent biologists than will
the kind of emotions aroused by crude surgery
in supposed imitation of a fantasy hero.

Students who are induced to perform pain—
ful experiments on the higher animals should
ﬁrst be made aware of two points:

1. What they are doing is not advancing
scientiﬁc knowledge or serving any al-
tI'UIStIC purpose.

2. The enjoyment of tumor transplantation
or other simple surgery is not an intel-
lectual pleasure; the child who takes
pleasure in such practices is likely to be
indulging thedarkest and most destruc-
tive side of his personality.

Teachers and students alike ought to give
careful thought to these two points so as to
be in a position to take moral responsibility
for their acts if there is anything hazy in their
realization of the above two points. i

If animals are to be kept in the classroom,
it is of the ﬁrst importance that the teacher
should enforce a serious and knowledgeable
attitude toward their care. Most students will
be interested in constructing and outﬁtting
suitable quarters for classroom animals; 30m:
will be willing to undertake care and feeding.
It is essential that the routine of cleaning,
watering, and feeding be inﬂexiblV carried
out. Some teachers have found that the best
method is to assign two volunteers to each
cage of animals for an entire semester. The
daily ration of food and water for each cage
and the routine days for cleaning should be
posted, so that in case of absence substitutes
will know where to take over. Sudden changes

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

.V ()‘1‘87‘Ilb67’, I 960

in diet may cause colic and intestinal disturb—
ances. Care ’/ll‘l/.\‘l lie false/1 ilaai a triple ration
of food and wafer is alter/w provided 072 Fri-
days. Vacation periods present a major prob-
lem: in our experience, .w‘lmol janim'rs are
never reliable animal (‘are/a/cers. It will prob—
ably be necessary for the animals to board
with the teacher or with a really responsible
student. The teacher who decides to keep
animals in the classroom must take the ultimate
responsibility for the care and feeding of the
animals at all times.

Two indispcnsiblc pieces of equipment for
keeping rodents are the water bottle and the
food hopper. 'l‘he hopper preycnts animals
from scattering and wasting their food; the
water bottle ensures that the drinking supply
will not be spilt and the animals left thirsty
during an unsuperyiscd period. ;\ water bottle
is simple to make. "I‘hrough the cork of the
bottle goes a piece of glass tubing with an in-
ternal diameter of 3/8”, and thick walls. The
outer end of the tube has been rotated in a
Bunsen flame until the opening is between
1/16” and 1/8” in diameter and bent at an
angle of not more than 45 out of straight, so
that, when the bottle is hung inycrted in the
cage, the spout curycs downwards and out-
wards. lf the cork is airtight. the water will
not run out when the bottle is tilled but will
always be available at the tip of the tube. The
table gives measurements for some common
laboratory animals:

Capacity of bottle

Mouse Rat
4 oz. 1 pt.

Guinea Pig Rabbit
1 pt 1 pt .
(for 1 rabblt)

Distance of spout from
cage ﬂoor for adults:
for young
11/2" 6" 4” 6”
same 3” 3" 3"

All caged aiiiiiials real/ire {res/J water at all
M7795, (Hid food slam/Id also lie available t0
them 072 a t-tt‘emy—fm/r laom' basis.

If the cages are placed in an area receiving
direct sunlight at any time of day, a sunshade
must be provided by attaching brown papﬁr
t0 the sides and top 'of about (inc-third of the
Cage area. Animals must neyer be left it} 3
draft, but adequate provision for yentilathn
must be made, especially over the weekend.

OR is also the teacher‘s. responsibility to klll
dlseased or unwanted animals by a humane




 

Vol. 22, No. 8

method. The best killing method is the chlor-
oform chamber. A chloroform chamber is a
box containing a wire netting shelf raised
above the ﬂoor level, with a perforated lid. A
piece of cotton wool saturated with chloro-
form is placed on the floor of the box, and the
animal is placed on the wire netting shelf
above. The animal must never come into direct
contact with liquid chloroform which ir-
ritates the mucous membranes. Since the ob-
ject is to anesthetize, not to asphyxiate, an
adequate amount of outside air must enter the
box until the animal is unconscious. The animal
may be observed through a hole in the lid;
if it struggles, more air should be admitted;
when it becomes unconscious, all outside air
should be cut off. Never remove the animal
from the chloroform box or dispose of the
body until it is stiff and cold.

Mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, frogs, and
ﬁsh are some of the animals most likely to be
kept in the classroom. The teacher should
familiarize all students with the basic require-
ments of the chosen species and demonstrate
the correct method of handling it. Some notes
on the basic care and handling of the common
species follow: These notes outline minimum
standards; students may be encouraged to raise
these standards further. For example, they
may wish to design roomier cages with more
elaborate exercise facilities or nest boxes than
are described below; experimenting in obtain-
ing the optimum housing arrangement or diet
will train students to make close observations
of the animals’ condition.

Mice: Four mice or a breeding pair may be
kept in a cage 6” x 12”, but a larger cage will
provide more space for activity and more op—
portunity for interesting observations. Mice
can be kept in a wire mesh cage with a wire
mesh ﬂoor and a movable tray beneath, which
should be lined with newspaper and cleaned
daily. However, recent scientiﬁc studies
show that a solid nonporous cage ﬂoor, cov-
ered with peat moss or shavings, provides an
optimum environment for mice, and that mice
thus housed are healthier and more content
than mice kept on wire mesh. The whole cage
should be washed in soap and hot water
Weekly. If there is a possibility of infection,
disinfectant should be added to the water. The
cage must be thoroughly dried before the
mice are replaced. Mice are sensitive to sud-
den changes of temperature and thrive at tem—

THE ABUSE OF ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM

481

peratures of 680—720. Suckling mice require a
temperature of 760—780. Mice are by nature
nocturnal and should be provided with a dark
corner in the form of a nesting box. It should
contain bedding material such as shredded
paper, woodshavings, or cotton wool. A con-
venient nesting box is a small metal cup, in-
verted, with an entrance cut in one side at the
rim. An exercise device such as a Ferris wheel
is a good idea. Mice are omnivorous and will
thrive on a diet of meat, ﬁsh, cheese and vege—
table scraps, supplemented with bread, oats,
sunﬂower seed, hemp, or millet. It is also pos—
sible to feed them on a diet of commercial
mouse pellets if these are supplemented with
greens, yeast, and any of the above mentioned
foods. An exclusive diet of commercial mouse
pellets may result in malnutrition and canni-
balism. Mice are usually docile; a mouse may
be picked up by placing the ﬁngers under the
animal and gently easing it into the palm of
the hand. Mice may also be lifted, not carried,
by the base of the tail if excitable. Gentle
stroking may help to calm them.

Rats: A rat cage should be similar in design to
a mouse cage but considerably larger. Seven
hundred square inches of ﬂoor space is the
recommended minimum for eight rats. Rats
require a nesting box. Cleaning the rat cage is
an identical operation to cleaning the mouse
cage. Rats are susceptible to respiratory dis-
eases, and a constant temperature of 65 O—7OOF.,
low humidity, and good ventilation are essen—
tial to good health. Rats may be fed on a diet
of commercial rat pellets, supplemented with
grain, greens, milk, meat, ﬁsh, and vegetables.
While rats are intelligent and make excellent
pets, an angry or frightened rat will inﬂict a
painful bite. It is advisable to handle rats
gently, to avoid sudden movements, and to
give the rat time to realize it is going to be
handled before picking it up. The best way
to pick up a rat is to place the hand palm
down over the animal’s back, with the thumb
and foreﬁnger around the neck, and the re-
maining ﬁngers around the animal’s body to
take the weight. Rats are playful and appreci-
ate exercise facilities such as Ferris wheels.
Nonbreeding rats and mice should be separ—
ated from breeding specimens.

Guinea pigs: Guinea pigs may be kept in pens
whose ﬂoors are covered in a 2” layer of saw-
dust or peat moss followed by a layer of straw.
An adult guinea pig requires one square foot or

 




 

482

ﬂoor space but will exercise better in a larger
area. If guinea pigs are kept 1n Wire mesh bot—

5 ” otherw1sc
tom cages, the mesh must be 4; , -.
the animals will suffer leg 1n1ur1es. In a wne
mesh cage bedding material such as peat moss
or softwood sawdust must be provulcd.
Guinea pigs may be fed on hay, which must
be kept in a rack to prevent sodmg, commer-
cial guinea pig pellets, and fresh greens. If a
liberal supply of grass, clover, alfalfa, cabbage,
kale, chicory, lettuce, or sprouted grain 18 not
given, guinea pigs develop a V1tannn C de—
ﬁciency which is often fatal. Gumea pigs
thrive in a cool, dry climate, 650-79017. T hey
should be handled gently, avoiding pressure
on the abdomen. Pregnant females should not
be handled. To pick up a guinea pig, place one
hand well up across the shoulders, with the
thumb behind a front leg, and the ﬁngers well
forward on the opposite side. Work ﬁngers
gently under the hindquarters to take the
weight.

Rabbits: Rabbits require a roomy cage. One
square foot of ﬂoor space for every pound 0f
rabbit is a general rule. Rabbits rest extended
with their feet stretched out behind them, and
any cage which prevents them from doing
this should be allocated to a smaller species.
The cage ﬂoor should be covered with 2” of
softwood sawdust or peat moss. Rabbits re-
fer a cool temperature, 600—65017. Strong drafts
or strong sunlight are to be avoided. Rabbits
may be fed on commercial rabbit pellets or on
a grain mixture of whole oats, wheat, and bar—
ley. They also require a good quantity of
alfalfa or clover hay, and green, and iroot
vegetables daily. If rabbits are put out to grass,
or given an excessive quantity of green food,
they should ﬁrst be given a .meal bf
pellets, to prevent them from tak
of green food and developing colic. Never
lift a rabbit by the ears without supporting
ltS hindquarters with the other hand. It may
be preferable to grasp the rabbit bv the scruff
of the neck while supporting the hindquar-
ters as above. Rabbits are inclined to jump and
k1ck when lifted; they must be treated gentlv
but ﬁrmly. Rabbits not gently handled may
scratch. Adult rabbits should be housed singlv
as they often ﬁght. i b ' ‘
Amphibians: Frogs mav
or concrete pools. It is
resting place outside of
of a raft or raised planl

grain or
mg a surfeit

be kept in large tanks
essential to provide a
the water in the form
. The top of the en-

THE AMERICAN Bioioov 'l‘i-:.-\(:m-:a

November, 1960

closure must be screened to prevent escape,
The water must be changed daily, unless a
svstem of running water is used. Frogs kept
iii foul water die. .-\ diet of maggots, meal-
worms, slugs, earthworms, blowfly larvae, or
meat is suiiable and should be placed out of
the water. Methods of raising these larvae and
worms are described in the Animal \Velfare
Institute publication, “l’irst :\id and Care of
Small Animals,” bv l-‘rnest l’. \Valker. Toads
should have a siniilar dict. ’l‘hey thrive in a
large cage whose floor is covered with moist
eaiith origravel. :\ roekerv of stones or bricks,
under which the toads can retire, is recom-
mended. lfrogs and toads may be killed in a
chloroform chamber.

Fix/.7: .-\n aquarium may be planted with pond-
weed which will increase the oxygen content
of the water and stocked with a few snails
which feed on decaving vegetable matter and
help to keep the 'aquarium clean. Further
cleaning mav be carried out with a Siphon.
Suddeif changes in water or water temperature
are harmful to fish, and all the water in an
aquarium should never be changed at once.
Chlorine is harmful to fish, and tap water 18 to
be avoided if pondwater is available. If tap
water must be used, it should stand in shal-
low pans for several davs before use. \Vhen
water weed will grow iii water, it is generally
safe for fish. It is essential that the aquarlum
should contain adequate water and water
surface. ()ne gallon of water per inch of ﬁsh
is a general i‘ule. For si\' one—inch ﬁsh, an
aquarium 16" x 0” \ 0” is adequate. Thls
provides 5 gallons of water and 1-H square
inches of air surf-ace. ()verfeeding and over-
crowding are the most frequent causes of
death to aquarium fish. according t0 thg
New York .-\quarium. (ioldfish may be fﬂd
Chopped raw meat. or anglcworms, and a £31900
quality 0f commercial fish food. In fee 11:;:
tropical ﬁsh it is cspeciallv important to pig
vide a varietv of different foods so the (1.5—
can select what thev prefer. because the 71611
tary needs of the different species are not “be
established. 'l‘ropical fish aquaria slioillqo
maintained at a constant temperature of 7f otii
and a cover provided to prevent the ﬁsh df.
jumping out. In order to avoid overfee mlgci
removeianv uneaten food ten minutes after t‘
ﬁsh have been offered it. be
The Animal \Velfare Institute wouldhlets
glad to furnish a list of books and pﬂmp

 




Vol. 22, N0. 8

relating to animal care and teaching with ani-
mals in schools. Especially recommended are
the pamphlet, “First Aid and Care of Small
Animals,” free on request by a teacher; an
English publication, “Animals in Schools,” by
J. P. Volrath of the Universities Federation

THE ABUSE OF ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM 483

for Animal Welfare; and “Humane Biology
Projects,” now available from the Animal
Welfare Institute. Address enquiries to: The

Animal Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Street,
New York 3, New York.

 

Some Feeding Problems Solved

SISTER MARY ADELAIDE, Marian College, Indianapolis, Indiana

The value of living animals in the laboratory
is recognized by every biology teacher who
possesses the true professional spirit. If these
animals are to be kept over a considerable
period of time the problem of providing food
for them is not always easy, especially in the
case of the very common laboratory animal,

the frog.

We are all aware of the fact that, in order
to attract the attention of frogs, food must be
moving; that insects on the wing, therefore,
form their natural diet. When ﬂying and
hopping insects are no longer available out of
doors, one must look for suitable substitutes.

Earthworms make an excellent substitute
for insects. These can be easily c011€Ct€d
in the fall long after grasshoppers are no
longer available and in the spring befOI‘C the
insect world is astir. A mass of squirming
earthworms on the drained ﬂoor of a frog
tank or a few dropped onto a white sheet
of paper never fail to attract the attention
of the occupants. They may not dispatch
a worm with the same speed as they do a
butterﬂy or a grasshopper, but they d0 50
nonetheless effectively. An interesting tug
of war may develop when the attention of one
frog is caught by a large dangling worm, half—
swallowed by another frog. You may be
impelled to end the struggle by snipping th€

worm in two.

Other creeping and crawling creatures such
as slugs, centipedes, pill bugs, even ants, make
satlsfactory food for frogs. They are quiCk
to sense the presence of food that is accom—
panied by even the slightest movement. It is
safe to say that any visible, motile object, no
matter how small, yet not too large, may b6
captured and relished by a hungry frog.

During a prolonged winter season it may be
impossible to obtain any living food for labora-
tory animals. At such times one must resort
to force—feeding of frogs, if they are to be
kept in a vigorous, healthy condition. With
a little practice this apparently impossible
task can be quickly performed. Two pairs of
forceps, two pairs of hands, and pieces of
meat of almost any kind are all that is neces—
sary. The upper jaw can be forced open with
one pair of forceps while the lower jaw
is grasped with the other pair. Once the
jaws have been separated, they can be kept
so with one pair of forceps while the food
is dropped into the mouth between the open
prongs. It will be necessary to force the food
back into the pharynx. This can be done with
the handle of a teasing needle or any similar
blunt object. Once the food has reached the
pharynx the frog will swallow automatically.
One can even note the animal’s preference for
certain foods, for example hamburger, which
he swallows with avidity. This is most easily
served in a frozen condition. If there is a
refrigerator in the laboratory, keeping a
supply of food on hand for this purpose is
simple since one can store the remains of a
freshly dissected animal or the ﬂesh of an
animal, such as a squirrel, accidentally killed
by a passing auto. The force-feeding of a
large number of frogs may seem tedious and
time-consuming for a busy teacher, but it is a
task which elementary school boys will gladly
perform for the college teacher who is for-
tunate enough to have youngsters from the
neighborhood making occasional Visits to the
laboratory.

However, force-feeding need never be re—
sorted to if one keeps on hand a culture of the
meal worm, Teﬁebrio. The larvae of these

 




 

 

484 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY 'I‘icAcmca

beetles, now commonly used as ﬁsh ba1t and
bird food, make excellent food for frogs, as
does the adult beetle. Cultures can easdy and
economically be kept in the laboratory all year
round.

Snakes are interesting animals and can serve
useful instructional purposes in biology classes
but feeding them also poses a problem for the
inexperienced. When ﬁrst deprived of outdoor
freedom they usually sulk and refuse to
eat. Frogs and mice placed in their cage
remain untouched. If they persist in this
hunger strike for months, or if suitable food
is not available, one must resort to force—-
feeding if they are not to starve to death.
This can be done in the manner described for

the feeding of frogs.

A large pilot blacksnake after six months
of captivity and force—feeding began to feed
freely on frogs and mice placed in its cage.
It is not necessary that these animals be alive,
at least in dealing with some snakes. This is
most convenient since a mouse caught in a
trap provides the snake with a most acceptable
meal. It should be noted, however, that such
mice should not be “too dead.” A snake has
a keen sense of smell and will not touch
decaying ﬂesh. An excess supply of dead mice
at any one time can be frozen and used later.

A bat can be of service to the biologv
teacher and can be kept alive for a long
time indoors if food is supplied. Fruit juices
can be fed with a pipette or fruit can be
drOpped into the mouth. Grasp the animal
by the nape of the neck with one hand pro-
tected by cloth or glove and with the other
pipette the juice, or even sugar water, into
the mouth or drop small pieces of grape or
apple. As the bat invariably opens its mouth
and squeaks when held in the manner sug—
gested the need of force-feeding as with frogs
and snakes is eliminated. Most bats will swal—
low food that pleases them once it is in the
buccal cav1ty.. Forcing it into the pharynx
or esophagus 13 not necessary. '

. A shrew is an interesting object of observa—
tion 1n a biology laboratory because shrews
are quite uncommon, and for most students,
the novelty of making their acquaintance and
observmg their incessant activity is a lesson
in itself. A shrew requires a tremendous
amount of food for its size but fortunately

15 both vegetarian and carnivorous and never

November, 1960

requires force-feeding. .-\ study of all the
varieties of food consumed by this little
creature would make an interesting project,
They are fond of corn and other cereal grains,
of earthworms and slugs. Placed in a terrarium
with frogs and salamanders a shrew will
readily dispose of several in a few days, leav-
ing not even a trace of a bone. The utter
confusion resulting from trying to house a
shrew with such peaceloving animals as am-
phibians makes the observer realize the im-
possibility of “taming the shrew.”
A'lotlvation for the almvc suggestions on
feeding of laboratory animals was provided
by llkarold Kaplan‘s very practical article
“Diseases in Laboratotv l7rogs and Turtles”
which appeared in the \lav. 1958, issue of the
ART, in which Mr. lx'aplan, in a paragraph
on the feeding of frogs makes the point that
“feeding frog; is laborious.” 'l‘hesc few notes
may be helpful to fellow biology teachers
and relieve somewhat the labor involved 1n
feeding, especially the from‘.

H
;

 

Additional Reports
on Experimentation

Other reports which might be of Interest

to those teachers interested in animal experi-
mentation are:

“Animal .i‘lXPCl‘llllCllf111‘l(H] in Secondary
Schools,” The Ill/Heinz for .lledlcal Re-
search, IJamiarv—lfel)ruarv. 1960, Vol. 14,
No. 1, pp. lo-l‘). This is published by th€
National Societv for Medical Research, 920
South Michigan Boulevard, ChicagO .5,
lllinois. Ralpli .-\. Rohwedcr is .l‘.X€Cuth€
Secretary.

“Animal l‘ixperimentatitin by Secondar);
School Students," Report on the Natloml
Conference on fine Legal Environment 0i
.llea’ical Science, Mav 27—-8. 1959. Natlonéf
SOCiCtV for Medical 'Research and the Unl‘
versity of Chicago. pp. 55—58. . .
“A Symposium on Laboratory Animals-
Their'Care and Their Facilities." The [MS
nal of .lledical Education, january, 196?
Vol. 35, No. 1, 55 pp. 1
Proceedings of flag ANN/Id] Call? Pane,
4"1211‘Ch. 1960. \‘01. 10. No. 1, AnimalCare
Panel, lnc.. Box 299. Lemont. IllinOIS-

 




 

 

A Solution to the Live Animal Problem in
High School

MARY G. GIBBON
Baldwin High School, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

One of the most distressing problems for
a high school biology teacher is the one which
confronts her every spring—that of “farming
out” or disposing of live animals which have
accumulated over the school year. The prob—
lem became especially acute this year since
we are now the proud possessors of a modern
suite of classrooms with their accompanying
“small animals” room. We acquired some
white rats and one hooded rat who was
promptly adopted by all. He was so loveable
that he was handled by many. He fathered
several litters of hybrid hooded and albino
rats. Offers of rats as gifts were pOlitely re-
fused; pet shops declined them, and out of
all the population I possessed, I managed to
farm out four of them and gave away six
for breeding purposes. I was desperate when
a chance remark by one of my colleagues
set me thinking, and I came up with a solution
which, I hope, will be of some help to any
other poor soul who is suffering with the prob-
lem of disposing of rats.

A former student, who is studying mor-
tuary science, stopped by to visit one day,
so I asked him to teach me and some of my
boys to embalm rats. He was agreeable, and
so we selected three boys who were willing;
together we all learned what to do. We tried
the arterial method, usually used on humans,
but found the artery of the rat is too small
to be used; then we used the cavity method
ofenbalming, which is usually used on small
children. The embalming ﬂuid is the type
used for cavity work. Arterial ﬂuid can be
used, but it is more expensive. Our embalm—
lng ﬂuid has all been donated by local morti-

c1ans. It is diluted as per the directions on
the bottle.

F 1rst we selected a rat, placed it in a plastic
bag and applied tap gas to the open end. We
found this to be a painless method of killing
the rats, and by far, the cheapest. We tried
ether and chloroform and did not ﬁnd it

any better than natural gas. The animal just
goes to sleep, and that is all there is to it.

485

After we are sure of death and the heart has
stopped, the animal is laid on its back with
the legs spread out, and the injection of the
embalming ﬂuid begins. We use a 10 cc.
syringe and an intramuscular needle. Injec—
tions of ﬂuid are made into the heart, lungs,
and abdominal cavity. It is especially impor-
tant that the abdominal cavity be done thor-
oughly because here is where putrefaction
sets in. For this reason plenty of ﬂuid is
pumped in from six different places. If the
animal is a male, inject the scrotum in several
places, then the tail. The animal is then turned
over and the back is injected in several places
so as to reach the muscles. Each leg is injected
in both directions so that the ﬂuid gets into
the feet as well as into the upper part of the
leg. Next, inject the neck, then turn the ani-
mal on its side and the brain through each
ear. Now the embalming process is completed.
The animal is placed in a jar of formaldehyde
ready for dissection at a future date.

The boys who were the ﬁrst to do this
work have taught their successors, and we
are now ready for the third generation of
“teen-age morticians,” as they call themselves.
We dissected the rats last year and found
them to be in an excellent state of preserva—
tion. In addition, I found the students very
interested in this dissection since it is a mam—
mal. They kept repeating to one another as
well as to me such phrases as, “This is what
I look like inside”; “Is my diaphragm as tough
as this one?” “Do we really have as much
intestine, proportionally, as this rat?”

We also discovered that we had killed two
pregnant rats, which were a tremendous
source of interest.

The project did not cost much except in
time, but it was really worth it. We have more
rats for this year’s class to dissect. I can rec-
dmmend this school project as a worthwhile
teaching device and an acceptable method
of solving the ever-increasing school rat popu_
lation.

 




 

 

Biological Program of Spaceship*

ACADEMICIAN N. M. SISAKYAN
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

The science of the laws of life which up to
now embraced our planet only has currently
acquired new perspective. Cosmic biology
has made its appearance and is successfully
developing. Every observation of the test
animals on the spaceship, every observation
of the rhythm of their vital functions and
digressions from normal during the period
of launching, as well as its subsequent restora—
tion, is of unmatched signiﬁcance for physi-
ology, biochemistry, and medicine.

The orbiting of a spaceship carrying numer-
ous instruments and living organisms around
the Earth, the possibility of carrying out TV
observation of the state of the animals during
ﬂight and, ﬁnally, the ﬂawlessly executed re—
turn of the spaceship, instruments, and living
organisms to the Earth mark an important
stage in preparations for a future manned
ﬂight into space. However, for such a ﬂight
to be possible many problems must be solved
and very complicated ones at that.

The ﬁrst of these is the creation of a power-
ful carrier rocket with a high-precision sys-
tem of control that would insure that the
spaceship keep strictly to its plotted orbit
and return to a predetermined area on Earth.
VVe have already witnessed how successfully

this problem was solved by Soviet scientists
and designers.

The second problem is elaborating the
techniques of returning the vehicle and space
traveller to the Earth. The successful ﬂight
of the second satellite—spaceship has shown
that this problem too is being solved by Soviet
scientists. If a manned ﬂight into space de—
pended only on the successful solution of
these ﬁrst two problems, we might say with
certainty that this ﬂight was literally a matter
of the most immediate future. But in order
for such a ﬂight to be materialized another
very complicated problem must be solved—a
normal biological environment must be created
for man during his ﬂight.

*This article is being published because it might be
of interest to our readers anxious to know more about

Soviet work in this area It ori ° 11 '
. gina a eared 1n
Pravda, August 25, 1960. y pp

The conditions which man will meet
in a ﬂight into space are already known in
many respects. These include unaccustomed
acceleration, weightlessness, low pressures,
Vibrations, unusual composition of the sur-
rounding environment, inﬂuence of penetrat-
ing radiation carrying high—energy particles,
unusual View of the world around where, for
instance, the sky will be black, and other
conditions of the cosmic environment differ-
ing from those in men‘s environment on the
Earth.

Much of this can be studied and foreseen
to prepare the future space traveller for this
unaccustomed environment. But it is one
thing studying these conditions with the help
of instruments on rockets and satellites and
testing the inﬂuence of these conditions on
man on Earth. it is an entirely diﬂferent thing
to be convinced ﬁrst hand orito prove experi—
mentally that all computations were correct,
that everything required for the normal vital
functions of the human organism in conditions
of space ﬂight had been taken into considera-
tion and provided for. In this respect an in-
valuable servicc is being rendered to man by
the space pioneers, that is. the dogs which he
sends on ﬂights into outer space. ()bservatlons
of other animals that have been in outer space
also provide valuable material.

Man‘s invariable companion in future ﬂights
and, in particular, in landings on other planets
must be green vegetation. ()n the Earth this 15
not only part of a customarv and pleasant
environment—it is absolutely essential for man.
These plants create organic substances wthh
serve as food for nian and animals, they
cleanse the air of carbon dioxide. the product
of their respiration, and generate oxygen {11
the process of photosynthesis. This job 15
done by land and the tiniest water plants.

The higher plants provide man with valu—
able and diverse products and materials. But
they possess a sharply deﬁned cycle of Vital
processes. Unicellular water plants cultivated
in artiﬁcial nutrient media remain regularly
active in growth and photosynthesis 0V6r .3
long period of time. They produce orgﬂnlc

486




 

 

Vol. 22, N0. 8

substances, cleanse the air of carbon dioxide,
and enrich it with oxygen.

All this determined the manifold and pro-
foundly elaborated content of the biological
program carried out on board the spaceship.
The main tasks of these biological experiments
were: to study the peculiarities of vital func-
tions of various animal and vegetable organ-
isms in conditions of cosmic ﬂight; to do re-
search regarding the biological effect on living
organisms of the basic factors in space travel,
long periods of overstrain, weightlessness,
transition from sub—to super—weight, and Vice
versa; to study the effect of cosmic radiation
on animal and vegetable organisms, that is,
on the state of their vital activities and hered-
ity; to make a study of the effectiveness and
features governing the functioning of the
systems ensuring vital activities in ﬂight, for
example, the systems of regeneration, thermo—
regulation, feeding and water supply, waste
disposal, and others; to study the effectiveness
and reliability of operation of the descent
and landing systems of the spaceship’s cabin

with containers for biological ob]ects.

The passengers taken along included the
simplest modern living organisms such as
bacteriophages or bacteria parasites, various
microorganisms, intestinal bacilli, butyric acid
fermentation bacteria, staphylococci, fungi
cultures, actinomycetes, and unicellular green
plants. The representatives of the higher plants
1ncluded spiderworts in bloom, seeds of maize,
and of various varieties of wheat, peas, and
Nigella. There were also insects—Dmsopbila,
and cancerous cells of man. This wide range of
different biological objects varying in level of
organization and in demands to environment
conditions will undoubtedly help to settle
questions concerning “biologically transfer-
rable” elements of the environment in cosmic

ﬂights.

Cancerous cells found in man have been
cultivated for many years in glass jars in-
dependent of the human organism. Their be-
havior in conditions of space ﬂight will enable
us to judge to a certain extent the effect of
Speciﬁc conditions created in cosmic ﬂight
011 human cells and tissues. In the future, it
will obviously be possible to carry out re-
search with normal human cells Which have
also been long cultivated independent of the
human organism. Among the biological ob—

BIOLOGICAL PROGRAM OF SPACESHIP

487

jects belonging to this category that were
placed in the container of the spaceship were
conserved segments of tissue, skin, of man and

rabbit.

Some of the bacteria which underwent this
cosmic experiment are the constant compan-
ions of man and animals. They usually live on
the surface of the body (staphylococci) or
else in the intestines (intestinal bacilla of vari-
ous types). It is very important to know how
these companions of the human organism
react to the unusual conditions of cosmic
ﬂight: whether their activity lowers or
heightens, etc. This might have direct bearing
on the health of the space traveller.

At the same time microorganisms, bacteria
and fungi, are very convenient and com-
paratively simple biological models on which
to study the general laws of how the environ-
ment and conditions of existence inﬂuence.
elementary vital processes. They are particu—
larly useful in studying the inﬂuence of outer
factors, for instance, radiation, on heredity-
Thanks to the high speed at which they mul-
tiply and at which generations succeed each
other, it is easy to reckon the results of various
physical and chemical inﬂuences.

Among the “passengers” of the spaceship
we see representatives of bacteria more sensi—
tive to radiation, as the intestinal bacilli “KK—
12,” and highly stable bacteria, intestinal ba—
cilli “V.” Of particular interest are the fungi,
actinomycetes, many of which are used to
make antibiotics.

There can be no doubt. Ascertaining the
inﬂuence of space ﬂight conditions on these
animal and vegetable organisms is of great
signiﬁcance.

The ship also had some mammals on board,
white and black mice and rats in addition to
the dogs, Strelka and Belka. According to the
dogs’ behavior during ﬂight they can be
divided with suﬂicient clarity into types of
higher nervous activity. Strelka is the calm,
strong, and even-tempered type as contrasted
to the more irritable, reactive, and mobile
Belka. The difference in types of higher
nervous activity provides a convenient case
for determining the particulars of these ani—
mals’ state or conduct under the inﬂuence of
different factors of the ﬂight. This circum—
stance is of great scientiﬁc interest.

Of tremendous signiﬁcance for a future-

 




 

 

488

manned ﬂight is the possibility of rapid b1-
ological regeneration of the atmosphere insidc
the hermetically sealed cabin, thdeSSlblllty
of enriching it with oxygen making use of
the products of man’s vital actiVities. ThlS
entails creating artiﬁcially conditions in a
closed sector of space that would, on the .one
hand, place the space traveler into conditions
that he is used to in life on Earth and, on the
other hand, solve the complicated problem of
providing him with everything required. for
normal existence during a prolonged ﬂight.

To solve this problem, unicellular micro-
scopic green algae, Cblorella, was placed in the
container. This will obviously be a valuable
companion of space travelers on long ﬂights
since it is capable of supplying oxygen for the
air in the cabin. It is very important to ascer-
tain how these so-called oxygen factories will
behave in conditions of space ﬂight.

In the past decade the all-round study of
C/alorella has assumed great scientiﬁc and
practical interest, not only in connection with
its possible use in cosmic ﬂights, but as a
potential source of full—Value nutrition attain—
able in unlimited quantities over enormous
areas of water on our planet.

A manned ﬂight into outer space entails
thorough and diverse preparations. It can-
not be dictated by mere publicity or similar
considerations. Therefore, the program of
biological research foresees settling the entire
complex of questions directly connected with
ensuring normal working ability, vital activity,
and absolute safety of man’s ﬂight into the
Universe. In this connection the attention paid
to genetic research is fully justiﬁed. The
phages, microorganisms, higher plants, insects,
tissue cultures, mice and rats, that made this
trip into space have long been classical objects
for this research.The experiment carried out
in space will not only make it possible to as-
certain the biological action of certain ﬂight—
factors to a greater extent but will determine
their possible inﬂuence on future generations.

It goes without saying that it is still im-
possible at present to make ﬁnal conclusions.
The data acquired must be thoroughly studied
and analyzed. At the same time the fact that
all these representatives of the organic world
retained their vital function and returned
safely to the earth is in itself. an outstandin
achievement. There can be no doubt that we
now have all grounds for saying in all cer—

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TicAcincR

N ova/11267, 1960

tainty that man‘s age—old dream of ﬂights
into outer space is close to being materialized.
Tremendous prospects will unfold not onl
for studying the laws goyerning life on Earth
out in icusmic space but for settling the
question of whether life on other planets
exists and in what forms.

 

New Anti-Serum Destroys
Sympathetic Nervous System

A substance which may have clinical value
in dealing with ailments stemming from the
tensions of modern life has been discovered
by zoologists at \Vashington University, St.
Louis. The substance. an anti—serum, selec-
tively destroys the sympathetic nervous sys-
tem when injected into animals without
otherwise interfering with their Vitality.

Two scientists, l)r. Rita Levi-Montalcini,
professor of zoology at \Vashington Univer-
sity, and Stanley (Iohen, former associate
professor now at'\'anderbilt University, were
major ﬁgures in the work.

The sympathetic neryous system has a role
in regulating blood pressure. and it indirectly
controls the biological source of certain emo-
tional states. Since many human ailments can
be traced to excessiye'actiyity of the sym—
pathetic neryous system, there has been
considerable interest'in ﬁnding ways of cut-
ting down its activity.

Drs. l..eyi-.*\lontalcini and Cohen obtained
the anti-serum by injecting puriﬁed extraCt
of mouse salivary glands into rabbits. Pre-
viously, the scientists had learned that mOU§6
SﬂliVﬂfV glands, snake venom and a certaln
type of cancerous tumor occurring in mICC
contained an agent that caused abnormal
growth of sympathetic nerve ﬁbers.

“When we injected the anti-serum from the
rabbits into new-born mice.” Dr. Levi-Mon'
talcini said, “we got an almost complﬁte
disappearance of the sympathetic nervous
system.”

After this, the material was tried on “1:55,
rabbits, kittens, and a squirrel monkey, Wlth
the results being a 90 to 99 per cent disap-
pearance of the sympathetic nervous system In
a few days. Another interesting aSPCCt 0f the
research is the indication that an agent essential
to the growth and maintenance of the Sym—
pathetc nervous system is normally pfﬁsent
in the blood. '

 




 

Building Animal Cages and Containers
For Classroom Use*

PAUL W. WELLIVER

Traveling Science Teacher, Oak Ridge Institufe of Nuclear Studies
Oak Ridge, Tennessee

Biology teaching is coming alive. All over
the country the leading educators in life sci—
ences are urging that more living specimens
be introduced into the biology teaching
program. The response among teachers has
been good, and gradually the odor of form-
aldehyde which once permeated and dom-
inated the high school biology classroom is
being overcome by the educationally more
desirable odor of living things. At last the
biology room is a living room, and high
school biology is truly becoming a study of
living things.

With the introduction of more and more
animals into the classroom, many diﬂiculties
present themselves. The teacher is confronted
with the problem of housing, feeding, and
caring for these animals. To overcome these
difﬁculties one must possess proper equipment,
have the necessary know—how, and organize
eﬂicient student help. However, the question
which is probably most often asked when the
problem of keeping animals arises is, “Where
am I going to put them?”

The answer to this question lies in your
basement, in your attic, in the storage rooms
at the school, and, yes, even on the junk
piles. One need only to utilize the materials
which he ﬁnds in these places in order to
devise suitable containers in which to keep
the animals which he wants. Not knowing
exactly what you may ﬁnd when you explor€
these regions of your home and school, I
am unable to tell you what to build and how
to build it. However, my purpose is not to
answer these questions for you but rather to
help you to best answer them for yourself.

What then should you do when you ﬁnd
yourself asking the question, “Where am I
going to put them?” It is up to you to design
a Cage from the materials which you have
avallable. But before you begin sawing, ham—

 

*Given at the NABT meeting with the A1138 at
Pennsylvania State University, August, 1959.

 

mering, and bolting things together, the fol—
lowing factors should be given careful
consideration.

Does the cage sufﬁciently resemble the

[natural habitat of the animal to provide com—

fort and insure longer life?

Does the construction of the cage make it
possible to feed and water the animals easily
and make regular thorough cleaning possible
with a minimum of effort?

Are you using good, and yet inexpensive,
materials in the construction?

15 the cage being constructed in the best
way possible to ﬁt into the space which you
have for it in the room in which you teach?

Is your work neat? There seems to be a
feeling among many who use home-made
equipment in their teaching that an effort

 

489

 




 

 

 

490 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY I iauzuicu 1\/(,.~L-c,,,,/m.) I960

 

should be made to insure that it appears home-
made. This I believe to be a mistake. Neat-
ness is among the most important lessons
which our students must learn, and whenever
a good example can be set, I feel that it
should be done. If a coat of paint would
help to enhance the ﬁnished product, then
by all means apply it.

So far we have said nothing about getting
ideas for the types of cages one could build.

Using the idea employed in the ca
front, new cages were develo
general plan but different materials.

ge on the left
ped using the same

 

A garbage can—used to house an opossum.

The most valuable source of these ideas lies
in your own imagination, and there are several
methods for stimulating creative thoughts.
As a biologv teacher you are probably
ﬂooded with izulvertiseinents from science
supply companies picturing and describing
equipment which will meet this need. Study
these advertisements carefully. ls it pOSSlblC
that with materials which you have a railable,

 

' 61
A mult1purpose cage constructed from barr

llds and hardware cloth.

 




 

Vol. 22, N0. 8

An inexpensive cage for rats, mice and hamsters
made from cake pans and hardware cloth.

you could build something which will per-
form the same function and possibly do it
better?

The vertical and horizontal observation ant
nests which most biological supply com-
panies have available can easily be constructed
using scraps of lumber and pieces of window
glass. Rat, mouse, and hamster cages can be
assembled using hardware cloth, strips of

.TWO types of observation ant nests built from
WIndow glass and scraps of lumber.

BUILDING ANIMAL CAGES AND CONTAINERS

 

491

 

Using oil cans to construct a cage for insects
and a cage for small mammals.

metal, aluminum baking pans, or whatever
suitable materials you may have available.
Look at the other advertisements. What do
you have which could be used to build a cage
of that type?

Often when you need a cage for a new
animal, you can devise a design based on
another cage which you have used previously
and which has proved its usefulness. To illus-
trate this, let us look at an example of how
such a development actually took place. The
cage from which the other ideas evolved is
a home—made cage familiar to many biology
teachers. It can be constructed simply by
forming a cylinder of hardware cloth and
fitting an aluminum cake pan on the top and
bottom. A ﬂoor may then be made by wiring
a disc of hardware cloth into the cylinder
about an inch above the bottom. Such a cage
is very effective for keeping small laboratory
animals.

One day a student brought in some insects.
Window screening was substituted for hard-
ware cloth and the insects were housed.

When the rats began to have litters, again
the original cages proved to be inadequate; this
time because they were too small. In a search
for something to build a larger cage, two
twenty—inch diameter metal barrel lids offered
the solution. Substituting the barrel lids for the
cake pans and making a larger hardware cloth
cylinder to ﬁt them, the new problem was
solved.

When an opossum was brought to school
the need for a proper cage was renewed. This
time a garbage can was utilized. The can it-
self served as the base. A cylinder made of
lawn fencing was slipped over the t0p of the

 




 

 

492 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY Tmcmeu

can and rested on the handles of the can.
The lid was then placed on top of the cylinder
of fencing. Again the general idea of the
original cage was used, but it was adapted
to the new situation. To complete the interior,
a platform was placed at about the level of
the top of the can, and a stick attached to
the platform hanging down into the can so
that the opossum could climb up and down
as it wished. New ideas had developed from
a familiar method.

Another way to gain inspiration is to look
at materials around you while constantly
asking the question, “What kind of a cage
could I make out of that?” You would be
amazed at the number of times a good answer
presents itself. Ten—quart oil cans may be
converted into homes for many types of
animals. Jars can be used for many purposes.

Suppose, for example, you do not have
sufﬁcient aquarium space for the ﬁsh and
other water animals that you wish to keep.
A gallon jug with the top cut off can be used
for a small aquarium. The top can be re—
moved by passing an electric current through
a nichrome wire wrapped around the jar
at the level where the break is desired. If
the break does not take place by just heating
in this manner, remove the wire from the
jar and run cold water over the place where
heat was applied. If done properly, the jar
will be cut with an even, level rim. The
nichrome wire can be replaced by a piece of
string soaked in alcohol and burned while
surrounding the jar. This is perhaps a more
convenient but less effective method.

Realizing that it is not essential to look

 

Some plastic containers obtained at a variety

t h' . . .
:h?11;;5,w 1ch would be useful for keeping 11v1ng

November, 1960

 

An aluminum pan and hardxx are cloth make a
home for mice.

through the sides of an aquarium, one can
find many substitutes for the standard aquar-
ia which are excellent for keeping ﬁsh and-
such animals as turtles, frogs. crayfish, snakes,
etc. Dishpans, \yashtubs, all sorts of plastic
containers which can be found in the stores,
and even an old bathtub are all ideal. By
setting up the proper environment in the
containers mentioned, or in any other con-
tainer which you may have ayailable, excellent
substitutes for expensive aquariums can be
devised. Incidentally, the reference to the
use of a bathtub was not made in jest. Bath—
tubs have been used with much success in
the classroom for keeping this type of animal.

These are only a few examples of things
you have around. you every day which would
be useful for keeping animals: Keep looking.
There are lots of possibilities.

Current science education journals as well
as books and pamphlets on Science teaching
methods will provide you with helpful sug-
gestions. Adapt these suggestions to your Own
needs and situation. Information ranges from
Very simple methods of keeping animals in
jars to detailed plans for constructing 11101“C
elegant devices. For example, a long time
desire for an observation beehive was fulfilled
after a search of the literature which revealed
plans for building one.1

What I have tried to present is not a list
of cages which I feel that every biology
teacher should make. Rather, I have attempted
to give some suggestions as to how to develop
Ideas which will best make use of the resources

 

iShEI’W, F. R., “Observation Beehiyes: Construction
~Use,’ Gleanings 2'72 Bee Culture, November, 1952,
Vol. 80, No. 11, pp. 656-658.

 




 

 

Vol.22, N0. 8

 

Using a hot wire to cut glass and produce useful
containers.

which you have in order to fulﬁll your own
needs. The number of examples which I have
given has been small but the possibilities are
numberless.

It is important that the biology classroom
in your school be a living biology room. The
next time that the appearance of an animal
prompts the question, “Where shall I put
it?” spend a few moments in your attic, in

BUILDING ANIMAL CAGES AND CONTAINERS

493

your basement, in a hardware store, or just
staring at a pile of junk. The answer is sure
to be there.

Bibliography

- Buck, M. W., Pets from the Pond, Abingdon Press,

New York, 1958.

Morholt, E., Brandwein, P. F., Joseph, A., A Source—
hoole for the Biological Sciences, Harcourt,
Brace and Company, New York, 1958.

Nixon, A., “Life in the Biology Laboratory,” Science
Education, Vol. 18, No. 4, December, 1934, pp.
225—229.

Shaw, F. R., “Observation Beehives: Construction—-
Use,” Gleanings in Bee Culture, Vol. 80, No. 11,
November, 1952, pp. 656—658.

Wilson, S. O., “A Biology Classroom Zoo,” School
Science and Mathematics, Vol. XLIII, No. 375,
April, 1943, pp. 345-351.

—————— , Living Specimens in the School Labora-
tory, General Biological Supply House, Inc., Chi-
cago, 1944.

—————— , Turtox Service Leaﬂets, General Biological
Supply House, Inc., Chicago.

—————— , UNESCO Source Boole for Science
Teaching, UNESCO, Paris, France, 1956.

 

Heredity by TV

An educational television series called
“Heredity,” produced by the KUHT Film
Production Department, had its national pre—
miere the week of July 17. The series began
in San Francisco, Boston, Chicago, Pittsburgh,
and New Orleans, as well as Houston. The
program will be seen at later dates in about
40 other cities. The nine half—hour programs
were produced for National Educational Tele—
vision by the University of Houston station.

 

Fellowships

Facts about fellowships for health research
provided by federal and non—governmental
agencies are now available in a single report,
“Fellowships for Health Research,” issued
by the National Health Council. Based on a
meeting of the Council’s Committee on Re—
search, the report contains information about
the fellowship and traineeship programs of
four federal and twenty-two non—govern-
mental agencies.

COpies may be purchased for $51.00 from

the National Health Council, 1790 Broadway,
New York 19.

 

Dedication Ceremonies

Western Washington College, Bellingham,
Washington, will dedicate its new $2,500,000
Haggard Hall of Science in ceremonies De—
cember 1-4, 1960. The keynote address will
be given by Dr. William H. Pickering,
Director of the Jet Propulsion Laboratories.
Dr. Linus Pauling will speak on molecular
biology, and Dr. Paul F. Brandwein will
discuss science education. Other topics to be
dealt with by other speakers will include
oceanography, cosmology, and related ﬁelds.
Speciﬁc information about the program may
be obtained from Dr. E. F. Neuzil, Depart-
ment of Physics and Chemistry.

 

Looking Ahead in Science

A report of the Production Seminar and
Conference on the Improvement of Science
Education in the Elementary School, October
5-10, 1959, has now been published as “Look-
ing Ahead in Science” by the California State
Department of EducatiOn in Sacramento. This
very ﬁne bulletin has been produced by the
Bureau of Elementary Education of the Cali-
fornia school system.

 




 

Live Animal Study in the Beginning Zoology

Course

A. M. HOLMQUIST
St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minnesota

For several years the observation of live
animals has been a regular part of the labor-
atory procedure of our introductory zoology
course. We have continued the practice these
many years because it has been successful
in student interest and achievement. Even
though the students may many times have
seen such common animals as the frog, the
earthworm, or the grasshopper, most of them
have never before taken time to observe
their activities at close range. The students
respond with much enthusiasm to this type
of laboratory work, ask many questions, and
give every indication that they are taking
the work seriously and getting much out of
the study. With adaptations, this type of study
lends itself to both high school and college
levels.

Live study of animals has many values to
recommend it. It has helped to rescue the
course from mere carcass study and to restore
the course to its rightful place as a study of
life. Live study furthermore lends variety to
the laboratory schedule of work, gives the
students a chance to see how the structures
operate which they have just studied in the
preserved specimens, corrects abnormal im-
pressions of the animals such as faded colors
and color patterns, shriveled skins, twisted or
flattened bodies, abnormal positions of limbs,
and other distortions. Live animals also demon-
strate their natural movements and activities,
and, perhaps, also their voices. There is also
an opportunity to impress respect, under—
standing, and consideration for animals. Pithed
or anesthetized animals can also be used to
demonstrate the actions of internal organs;
e. g., heart beat, blood flow, lung action,
peristalsis, muscle contraction, and other
internal activities. Making use of the live
animal supply, one can use freshly killed
animals to demonstrate the natural color,
normal position, distensibility (e. g., lungs)
of internal organs, to offset the abnormal
impressions obtained from the decolorized,

and often displaced, organs of the preserved
specimens.

The live study follows the dissection or
other morphological study of the organism in
order that the student may first become
familiar with the structures and their
functions.

Live specimens of the animals to be studied
in the course are collected or purchased just
before their use in the laboratory if they
are available at that time. They are in best
condition and will show most normal activity
when they are fresh from their native habitat.
If they cannot conveniently be obtained at
the time they are to be studied, they are
collected when available in the fall or spring
and maintained in the laboratory until needed.
If they must be maintained in 'the laboratory
for some time before use, they must be kept
in good condition with proper food, regular
feeding, water, light, space to exercise, and
in as natural surroundings as possible. Inter—
ested members of the class may be enlisted
to help collect the animals and maintain
them in the laboratory and may thus see the
natural habitats of the animals, methods of
collection, and activities of the animals in the
ﬁeld. Usually these volunteer helpers become
so enthusiastic and interested in the ﬁeld work
that their enthusiasm is passed on to the
class when the animals are studied.

In all of these studies, it is important to
keep the animals calm and unexcited so as to
get somewhat normal responses from them.
This is especially important in the live study
Of vertebrates and the higher invertebrates.
To this end, the animals should be hand1€d
as little as possible. If handled, they should
be handled gently and slowly. It is important
to avoid quick, nervous movements of one’S
body and hands in or near the containers;
slow movements do not excite them. LO11d
noises of all kinds should also be avoided.
This small bit of technique in handling 3111‘
mals should be called to the attention of the
students at the beginning of the study.

Control of the class often becomes more
diﬂicult during live study exercises. The stu—

494




 

V01. 22, N0. 8

dents often become noisy as they react to some
sudden and unexpected activity of the animals.
This can be forgiven since they are reacting
for the most part honestly to their work.

One or two live specimens are gently
placed in each glass container, and if possible,
one or two containers per laboratory table.
If the animals are terrestrial, the containers
should be provided with a moist bottom of
wet paper toweling or moist sand to prevent
drying of specimens. If they are aquatic,
enough water should be provided to allow the
animals to swim in it freely. Battery jars,
museum jars, glass food containers, ﬁnger
bowls, Syracuse watch glasses, and aquaria
may be used as containers. The size of the
container depends upon the size of the animals
to be studied. There should be ample room
in the container for the animals to move about
in it. If locomotion is to be observed, the
size of the container must be several times the
length of the animal. Precautions must of
course be taken to prevent the escape of the
animals, especially if they are terrestrial ani—
mals. The animals and their containers are
set out on the laboratory tables at least a
half hour before the beginning of the labora-
tory period in order to quiet them before the
students arrive. As soon as the students arrive,
it has been found necessary to caution them
against disturbing the animals in any way
until they have received instructions.

Three or four students can observe the
animal at the same time if the specimen is
large enough to be easily seen with the naked
eye. A reading glass may be helpful for the
smaller specimens or for smaller details, and
a compound microscope may be necessary
for tiny organisms.

If Specimens are necessarily few, arrange
for the students to make their observations 1n
Small groups at various times during the

period.

The study is directed by numerous guiding
questions on a duplicated work sheet or on a
page in the laboratory manual. The questions
ﬁfe organized under such topic headings as
3126, C0101“, posture, methods of locomotion,
breathing movements, movements of body
parts, Speed of movements, degree of activity,
method of feeding, responses to various stim-
UIl,.and the like. In some cases, simple eX-
Perlments may be performed on responses to

 

LIVE ANIMAL STUDY 495

touch, light, moisture, temperature, and other
ecological factors. The questions should be
suggestive rather than complete in order to
allow for some original observations by the
students.

Quiet, patient watching is needed for best
results. Occasional gentle handling or prod-
ding may be necessary at times to stimulate
the specimens to activity. If there are many
sections in the course, it would be distinctly
advantageous to have sets of fresh animals to
replace the fatigued ones, especially if the
animals have undergone much prodding or
necessary handling.

The amount of time set aside in the labora—
tory schedule for live study work on a partic—
ular type of animal may vary from a whole
period on such an animal as the frog to just
a few minutes on such an animal as Hydra.
The amount of time that may be devoted to
the study of any given organisms may depend
upon the amount of activity shown by the
animal, the diversity of activity, the com-
plexity of organization, and in general the
number of observations possible on the ani-
mal. The amount of time also depends upon
the instructor’s objectives in the study. A mere
quick look at a live animal has very little
lasting pedagogical value in impressing the
animal upon the minds of the students. There
must be some effort expended in the live study
to aid in retention and to overcome the dead
aspects of dissection and other purely mor—

phological study.

In order to secure serious attention from
the students, it is necessary to demand that
all observations be recorded and handed in
at the close of the laboratory period. To save
the students’ time in recording the observa—
tions and the instructor’s time in checking
the papers later, the report is topically organ-
ized, and the notations made wherever pos—
sible in abbreviated sentences or even with
one or two words. Thus:

Color:—Dorsal side dull red, ventral side
paler.
Size:——Body length 6 inches when re—
laxed.
General activity:—Sluggish. Movements
slow. Animal spends much time lying
quietly in the corner of the jar.
It should be made clear to the students that
this abbreviation of statements does not mean

 




 

 

496 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY Tmei-ucu

a curtailment of number of observed facts
but on the contrary allows more time to re-
cord more facts. Duplicated form sheets could

November, 1960

be used to speed up the recording of observa—
tions and to facilitate checking by the instruc-
tor.

 

Radiation and High School Teaching

DONALD J. FLUKE, Director
Duke University Summer Institute in Radiation Biology, Durham, North Carolina

Radioactivity is becoming a high school
classroom staple. Geiger counters share bench
space with microscopes, and fume hoods are
bright with the yellow and magenta colors
of the Atomic Age. Both in quality and in
quantity the quiet innovation is paced by a
program, now in its ﬁfth year, in which the
Atomic Energy Commission, The National
Science Foundation, and over a score of
universities join in training and equipping
high school teachers. Several things are
immediately impressive about the program:
its present size, the eager acceptance and
exploitation of its possibilities by teachers, and
the careful and varied manner in which its

growth has been guided.

In terms of size approximately 750 teachers
have already received from six to eight weeks
of intensive summer training. Approximately
400 more are scheduled for this summer. In
our own institute at Duke University Marine
Laboratory every participant and visitor is
caught up by the enthusiasm with which the
new group of twenty each summer tackles
the unusual assignment, an enthusiasm which
continues to come back to us in letters ﬁlled
with clippings, questions, and comments on
how it works out in the classroom. When a
high school teacher with years of experience
writes back to say, “This fall seemed like
my ﬁrst year teaching again instead of mV
thirteenth,” we know that we have something
good going.

The program began with three summer
institutes in 1956, one each at Harvard, Duke,
and the University of New Mexico. Although
designed primarily for biology teachers, the
institutes have from the start included teachers
of physical subjects as well. In succeeding
years the program has grown to ﬁve and
then to twelve institutes, and last summer to
nineteen, including two for college teachers.
National meetings of institute representatives

have helped new institutes to build on the
experience of older ones and to ﬁnd their
own special improvements.

“Radiation Biology” has been the guiding
title, but in most of the institutes radioactive
tracer technique has received a more sub-
stantial effort than has practical study of
radiation effects. The area of interest may
not be very logically defined, but it meets the
test of pragmatism. A high school teacher can
more easily and safely use P32 in tracer
quantities than he can a cobalt source or
X—ray machine capable of damaging living
things. Work with tracers ﬁts immediately
into analytic uses. At the same time the
teacher can talk about atomic reactors, the
balance between hazards and uses of radia—
tion, and the whole spectrum of radiation
biology in relation to policy and to society.

Each teacher is provided with a kit of
equipment for high school use. The klt
includes a scaler-ratcmcter with Geiger
counters capable even of C ‘7“ work, an electro-
scope, a diffusion cloud chamber, suppll€S
for autoradiography, and numerous smaller
items. Of equal importance are supplies 9f
radioisotopes sent twice a year to each 1nst1-
tute graduate who requests a shipment.
Exempt quantities of nine or ten different
materials are included, allowing a variety Of
classroom uses. The preparations made for
the arrival of these shipments are reﬂected
even in the local press. Boxes are opened by
rubber-gloved hands over paper-covered panS,
while disciplined crews of student helpers
hold implements and Geiger probe monitor
at the ready. The way these teachers orgaane
things no student can miss the fact that th6
Atomic Age arrives twice a year in a package
of little vials. '

What can a high school teacher do with
ten microcuries of P32 or similar materials.
Many 0f the teachers undertake some exer-

 

 




 

V01. 22, N0. 8

cises in counting technique ﬁrst, teaching
the use of radiation detectors, and also point-
ing up a beautiful example of the statistical
nature of measurement. Within the same
basic context some have devised ingenious
demonstrations of the inverse square law, an
unexpectedly popular activity. Then they go
on to translocation exercises with plants. The
student, who puts a bean seedling brieﬂy into
a P32 solution and then cuts up the plant
and counts each part before and after drying,
learns something about movements of dis-
solved materials inside plants. Demonstrations
of diffusion and osmosis are high on the
popularity list. The chemically—minded work
out solubility products, demonstrating and
utilizing the tremendous sensitivity of tracer
methods. Some show I131 uptake in thyroid
or follow red blood cells with Cr“.

While it would be much harder to injure
anyone or anything with 10 microcuries of
P32 than with even small amounts of sulfuric
acid, mercury, or ether, for example, the
teachers undertake exaggerated precautions,
mostly for instructive value. The program is
not only safe for the high school class, but
it teaches radiation safety.

Most of the teachers use plants more often
than animals, partly because of the greater
simplicity of handling plants. Radioactivity
put into a mouse can get out of the cage and
run around. It might even be eaten by the
school cat, a kind of inadvertent food chain
study which most teachers wish to avoid. But
for those who do undertake animal work,
partly because of the pedagogical value of
ammals, the nature of the tracer quantities
of. radiation allow many informative exercises
Without harm or trauma to the animals. The
teacher has available subtle tools which make
easier the respect for life which must always
be Inherent in good biological teaching.

How does the radiation institute program
work out for the high school student? Have
many been inﬂuenced toward basic work
sooner in preparation for science careers? We
k110W that institute-trained teachers have
turned out science fair winners and have put
sc1ence clubs into better competition with
other extracurricular attractions. We have had
college freshmen stop by with greetings from
a teacher we trained but have yet of course
F0 get our ﬁrst graduate student possibly
Inﬂuenced toward quantitative work by the

RADIATION AND HIGH SCHOOL TEACHING

497

radiation institute program.

These things show up, but from the van-
tage point of an institute director most of the
iceberg is hidden. What we do see is the
teachers, and what we see of them encourages
us very much that the ultimate beneﬁciaries
are getting everything we could hope and
more. Status is a currency of the times, and
our teachers demonstrably go back home
with some. A high school teacher, who has
dug hard on basic radiation science all sum-
mer, has heard a number of radiation research
scientists, has talked till all hours with his
colleagues from over the country, and comes
home with a very tangible set of mysterious
modern gear, is not quite the same man or
woman. Unless he lives in a university city
he is probably the local radiation expert, and
he knows it. He is ready for the school
assemblies, PTA meetings, and Lions Club
talks that can let him get at some of the
questions that students and adults will ﬁnd
he can discuss. Our participants have origi—
nated TV series based on their training, have
served on state advisory boards for radiation,
have taken prominent part in Civil Defense
activities, and have even done some commer—
cial consulting on the side. The high school
teacher who rides that kind of wave of topi-
cality, even for just a time, is on a new basis
in the classroom, a focal point for student
interest, a galvanic center for student activity.
For at least one institute director the greatest
fun of the whole program has been seeing
the high school teachers go out with a new
enthusiasm in their profession, and to have
the opportunity of helping keep that excite-
ment glowing.

 

Journal of Biology—1960

The very excellent publication by the stu—
dents in the Biology Department of the Bronx
High School of Science is now available as
the [omnal of Biology—I960. It may be
obtained from the school, 75 West 205th
Street, New York. Dr. Jerome Metzner is
chairman of the department, and this latest
issue is another evidence of what ﬁne work
high school students can do. Biology teachers
will be quite interested in readlng about the
research projects which these students have

carried on.

 




 

 

Report on a Florida Science Study Program*

DORIS TIMPANO
Jamaica High School, Queens, New York

This report represents a summary of the
activities of a group of honor science students
from Jamaica High School, Queens, New
York, during the Christmas holidays, De—
cember, 1959. The program was motivated last
July when I participated in a National Science
Foundation Program for biology teachers at
the Archbold Biological Station, Lake Placid,
Florida, under the direction of the American
Museum of Natural History. W’hile studying
ﬁeld biology in the Everglades, I conceived
the idea of sharing this unusual and very won-
derous experience with my students. The
following program is the result of my deter-
mined effort to enable our students to have
similar experiences.

Thirty-six biology students from our high
school participated in THE FLORIDA SCI—
ENCE STUDY PROGRAM. These students
were selected on the basis of their interest in
the biological sciences and on their scholar—
ship. They studied, traveled, and constantlv
observed the wide range of biological phe-
nomena on their own time and at their own
expense. The purpose of this program was to
enrich their biology curriculum through un—
usual ﬁeld experiences. The activity-packed
program began at Pennsylvania Station in
New York on December 26 when we departed
by rail for Daytona Beach, Florida. This eight-
day study program, entailing over thirty—ﬁve
hundred miles of travel, took us throughout
the interesting state of Florida and ended on
January 3 with our return to New York and
the return to our classes.

Highlights of the program included: Visits
to Silver Springs, Cypress Gardens, and the
Parrot Jungle; Lecture and trip through a
pineapple plantation; Botany program at the
Highlands Hammock State Park; Visit to the
Archbold Biological Research Station as guests
of Richard Archbold and discussions with
scientists working at the station about their re—
search projects; Everglades orientation and
lecture programs conducted by the rangers
and naturalists; Trips through the Everglades

 

*The author reports that several civic groups have
expressed an interest in helping ﬁnance this unusual
ﬁeld trip during Christmas vacation.

by catwalk, bus, and boat; University of
Miami science program conducted by Dr. H.
Leigh; Orientation program in marine biology
at the Seaquarium.

\Vhile traveling from one point to another,
the students experienced the unusual in science
education. ’l‘hev were members of a new
kind of school—h classroom on wheels. Our
bus was equipped with a microphone over
which I was able to conduct “class.” We dis-
cussed what we had seen and what we were
soon to see. '\\'e reviewed recently learned
ideas and connected them with our school
work. We refined our methods of observation
as we were trained how to look for the plants
and animals we studied. .-\s we traveled down
Florida’s central scenic route, we observed
examples of biological principles in operation.
Once, our bus stopped while our ranger-guide
jumped out and attempted to catch an Indigo
snake for our examination. Students learned,
ﬁrst—hand, how quickly a snake will react. We
lost our snake!

Immediate Accomplishments
A. Although we were primarily concerned
with the observation and collection of
factual information, in our classroom
sessions we constantlv strived to arrive at
the larger biological concepts which were
to be obtained from our experlenc€§-
Following are some of the many pr1nc1-
pies and concepts enumerated by the
students during our evaluation sessmns.
l. Evolutionary concepts stressed—p31“
ticularly,
a) survival of the ﬁttest
b) natural selection .
c) variations within a given species
d) mutations and their place in
modern evolution
2. Plant and animal adaptations were
in abundant evidence.
3. Parasitic, svmbiotic, saprophytic and
host relationships were observed, dis—
cussed and better understood.

4. Taxonomy, its purposes and func-
tions, Was better understood as the

498

 




 

 

Vol. 22, N0. 8

B.

s t u d e n t s familiarized themselves
with terminology and the keys to
plants and animals.

5. Applied conservation was illustrated
by rangers. Their comment, “Take
only a snapshot, leave only your
footprint,” was a good lesson in the
preservation of natural habitats.

6. Controlled burning of forest areas
in the Everglades illustrated the
principles of succession which the
rangers were trying to prevent.

7. Details of the scientiﬁc method were
observed in practice and indelibly
recorded in the minds of students
as they watched scientists at their
work.

8. The drudgery and the discipline of
science were stressed.

9. Students learned why the Ever—
glades National Park was set aside
and the need for the preservation of
natural habitats for the maintenance
of the continuance of some species.

10. The variety of plant and animal
life was clearly observed by the
tremendous abundance of natural
life found only in Florida where the
temperate and the sub-tropic zones
meet and mingle to form a habitat
unique in the continental United
States.

11. Dramatic illustrations of plant trop—
1sms were observed and explained.

12. Students also gathered information
about the social, economic, political
and historical background of Florida
which will enrich their general
knowledge.

These were some of the scientiﬁc con-

cepts that we emphasized. [t is very true

that these students have already learned
some of these ideas from more traditional
sources such as textbooks, and academic

Work; however, it is equally true that

they will not soon forget these concepts

which were so well illustrated before
their own eyes. To this end, this pro-
gram was dedicated.

All of the students participating in the

PrOgram evidenced deep interest in re—
turning to Florida either with this group
or With their parents and friends to

REPORT ON A FLORIDA SCIENCE STUDY PROGRAM 499

study and stay in the Everglades for a
longer period of time.

C. The students, in their desire to continue

learning about the interesting places they
have Visited, are planning to form a
science club which will enable them to
continue to build upon the knowl—
edge they have gained and will enable
them to teach others what they have
learned. Some of the students plan to
learn more about the Florida bird life
already seen; others plan to delve deeper
into Everglades ecology.

. Students and teacher—guides alike kept

records of the program in several ways.
Some kept journals; others took movies,
snapshots, and slides. A ﬁne collection
of color slides which illustrate many
phases of our science activities is now
available for showing to interested clubs,
organizations, and other science pro-
grams Without charge.

E. The trip was not completely science.

Where possible, the students took ad—
vantage of the opportunity to swim,
ﬁsh, and sunbathe. It is interesting to
note that even during their leisure mom—
ents, many students pursued activities of
a semi—scientiﬁc nature. Some chose to
go deep-sea ﬁshing; others collected
shells, crabs, coconuts, marine life, and
other science materials.

Evaluation

It is diﬂicult to evaluate a program of
this nature. The results may not be evi—
denced for many years. Of this, I can be
sure, each student, in his own way, will
remember this program as a highlight in
his high school learnings and will be in—
ﬂuenced by it. Field biology has become
to them an interesting and exciting ex-
perience. Each participant has already
evidenced increased maturity and emo—
tional development as a result of this
unique experience. He has learned to
accept adult responsibilities in a new
situation of living and working together
toward the goals of learning enrichment.
This represents preparation for future
adult living.

Future Programs

At present, we are planning similar pro—

 

 




 

 

500

grams to include science work in the
Florida Keys in addition to our present
areas of concentration. Greater partici—
pation from Florida scientists 1s antler—
pated in future programs because of
their excellent response tooour enthusi-
astic youngsters. Other sc1enee groups

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY 'I‘chuaucu

November, 1960

are evidencing interest in participation
in the planning and implimentation of
this program. (le'lc groups are being en-
couraged to prowde scholarshlps for
future programs to enable deserving
science students to broaden thc1r science
horizons.

 

Audio-Visual Report

“An Experiment in the Use of Films for
the Inservice Training of High School Chem—
istry Teachers,” is a report of 18 pages now
available from Samuel Schenberg, Director
of Science, Board of Education, City of New
York.

 

Conservation Publication

A recent publication, “Snow Surveys and
Water Supply Forecasts,” is available from
The Soil Conservation Society of America,
838 Fifth Avenue, Des Moines 14, Iowa, for
$0.50 per copy.

 

New Bibliography
“Suggested Science Books for the Pupil and
Teacher,” a new publication of the College of
Education, State University of Iowa, Iowa
City, Iowa, is now available from the Exten-

sion Division at ten cents per copy. Especially
useful for teachers of K-9 '

 

Slippery Skins of Germs

The slippery skins of germs—key factors
in the body’s defense against disease—are be-
gining to give up their secrets. Chemical
studies have established a relationship between
the chemical structures of these “skins,”
known as polysaccharides, and the body’s
abillty to produce germ—ﬁghting antibodies,
reported Dr. Paul Rebers, assistant professor
of immuno-ehemistry at the Rutgers Institute
of Mlerobiology. Of the more than 70 dif-
ferent polysaccharides associated with the
pneumonia germ, the chemist has dete
the chemical structure of one. The st

of only two others has as t b
mined. The am ye €611

rmined
ructure

. deter-
ount of antibodies produced

to light a germ depends on the type of sugar
molecules and how they link together in the
polysaccharide.

“Certain proteins in the blood stream of
disease—immune animals. called antibodies, are
able to combine specifically with the disease-
causing bacteria, often b\' means of the sur-
face polysaccharides and“ sometimes through
proteins.” the biochemist explained. “Thls
combination is an important step in the body’s
defense svstcm. The nature of this combina-
tion is liighb‘ specific depending upon the
strain of bacteria, which in turn is related to
the chemical structure of its surface.”

 

Chemical Trap

A chemical trap that captures an important
Vitamin in corn, making it nutritionally un—
available. has been detected in research re-
ported by a chemist of the United States
Department of .-\griculture.

The existence of the trap—which holds the
niacin. a B-vitamin. at 1.000 times the con-
centration at which it occurs in whole cOrn
—was confirmed in rat feeding tests, described
by Donald D. Christianson of the U. S. D- A-
Northern Utilization Research and Develop-
ment Division. Peoria. Ill. A better under—
standing of the relation between highTCOrn
diets and pellagra. a niacin—deﬁciency dlseaSC
which attacks the nervous and digestive sys—
tems is expected from the studies, be if“;

The problem of the poor nutr1t10nalut11fz
tion of niacin in corn has been recognized 0;"
many years. and it was previously suggeste
thatith'e niacin of corn was chemically DWI;
in a manner that made it unusable byamma 5:
Interestingly, Dr. Christianson said, 1n come
tries whefe'tortillas are a common food, til:1~
is less pellagra than in other high-corn Corn
suming areas. Alkaline treatment Of Cthe
during tortilla manufacture may lleI‘atC
niacin, he stated.

 




 

Nominations for 1961 Officers

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
BIOLOGY TEACHERS

In accordance with the constitutional pro-
vision on elections, a Nominating Committee
was appointed by President Howard Weaver.
Members were: Paul Klinge, Chairman;
Frances Gourley, Brother Charles, Richard
Weaver, and Irving Keene. Their nominations
are presented below. Ballots will be mailed
shortly.

A new feature of this year’s election will
be the election of Regional Directors. Their
duties will be to represent their regions on
the Board of Directors, to promote regional
activities, and to initiate teacher award pro—
grams. Their biographical backgrounds will
be carried in the December issue.

Oﬂicer duties, briefly, are: President—Elect,
prepare for presidential duties and arrange
AAAS meeting; First Vice-President, sub—
stitute for President and arrange AIBS meet—
ing; Second Vice-President, substitute for
First Vice-President and promote aﬂiliate
memberships; Third V ice—President, substitute
for Second Vice-President and in charge of
membership promotion; Secretary-Treasurer,
keep records, disburse and receive funds, and
receive membership dues; and Recording
Secretary, keep ofﬁcial Board minutes and
have stationery printed.

Candidate for President-Elect
Muriel Beuschlein

Present Position: Associ-
ate Professor of Bi-
ology, Chicago Teach-
ers College, Chicago,
Illinois.

Degrees: B. E., Chicago
Teachers College. M.S.,
Northwestern Universi—
ty. Finishing Ph.D.,
June, 1961, North—
western University.

 

Experience: Science
teacher in junior hlgh
school for 7 years.

Film advisory committees, AIBS and Indiana
Umversny. Coordinator for program of teaching

501

 

societies, AAAS, 1959. Coordinator, 4 in-service
courses, Chicago Teachers College and Chicago
Academy of Science.

NABT Activities: Managing Editor, ABT, since 1951.
Chairman, Illinois Conservation Committee, Chi-
cago Membership Committee, Constitution Revi-
sion Committee, Policies Committee. Member, Liai-
son Committee and Afﬁliation Committee.

Organization Membership and Activities: Fellow,
AAAS. Member, NARST, CASMT, NSTA, CESI,
and CEA. Panelist, National Science Foundation.
Secretary, Sigma Delta Epsilon.

Publications: Articles in ABT, CASMT, and other
professional journals. Booklets: “Free and Inexpen-
sive Materials for Conservation and Resource Use
Education,” Interstate Printers, 1958; “Free and
Inexpensive Materials for Science Education,” Chi-
cago Schools ]ournal, 1959. Co—author: “Things to
Do in Science and Conservation,” Interstate Print-
ers, 1960. Educational author of ﬁlms and ﬁlmstrips.

Candidate for President-Elect
Frances M. Gourley

Present Position: Biology
teacher, LaPorte High
School, LaPorte, Indi—
ana. Biology instructor,
Purdue University EX-
tension Center, Michi-
gan City, Indiana.

Degrees: BS. and M.S.,
University of Illinois.

Experience: High school
teacher in Illinois and
Indiana for 25 years.
Biology instructor,
Purdue University Ex-

tension Center, 5 years. Senior Counselor, High

School Science Student Institute, Indiana Universi-

ty, 1959-1960. President, Biology Section, Indiana

State Teachers Association, 1957—1960. Pre51dent,

Biology Section, Central Association of Science

and Mathematics Teachers 1950-1951.

 

NABT Activities: National Membership Chairman,
1947-1951. Member, Executive Board. Editor, News
and Views of NABT, 1958-1960.

Organization Membership and Activities: Member,
NABT, CASMT, AAAS, AIBS, ISTA, Delta
Kappa Gamma, Indiana Audubon Soc1ety,.lnd1ana
Academy of Science. President, Conservatlon Sec-
tion, CASMT, 1958-1959. Member, Executlve Board,

CASMT.

 

 

 




 

 

502

Candidate for First Vice-President

Clarence J. Goodnight

Present Position: Profes-
sor of Zoology, De-
partment of Biological
Sciences, Purdue Uni—
versity, West Lafay-

ette, Indiana.

Degrees: B.S., M.A.,
Ph.D., University of
Illinois.

Experience: Teaching and
research assistant. Uni-
versity of Illinois. In-
structor in Biology,
Brooklyn College, Uni-
versity of Illinois, Jersey City State Teachers Col-
lege. Research associate, American Museum of
Natural History, New York. Co-director NSF
Summer Institute for High School Biology Teach-
ers, New Mexico Highlands University. Director,
NSF Summer Institute for Biology Teachers, Pur-
due University. Research at Cold Spring Harbor,
New York, and Friday Harbor Marine Station,
State University of Washington. Co—ordinator of
teaching activities in Department of Biological
Sciences, Purdue University.

NABT Activities: Organized symposium on teaching
of invertebrate zoology for AIBS meetings at
Stillwater, Oklahoma.

Organization Membership and Activities: Member,
Sigma Xi, Phi Beta Kappa, Indiana Academy of
Sciences, Society of Systematic Zoology, Ecological
Society of America, Society of Zoologists, Society
for the Study of Evolution, Nature Conservancy,
American Microscopical Society, American Society
of Limnology and Oceanography, Association of
Midwest Biology Teachers, NSTA. Fellow, AAAS.

Publications: Author of numerous articles in various
scientiﬁc journals. Author of article and book re-
views for American Biology Teacber. Co—author,
zoology text and laboratory manual. Co-author
with Paul Klinge and R. R. Armacost of high
school biology text (in press). Co-author of col-

lege biology text (in press) with R. R. Armacost
and M. L. Goodnight.

 

Candidate for First Vice-President
Stanley B. Mulaik

Present Position: Associ-
ate Professor of Zoolo-
gy, University of Utah,
Salt Lake City.

Degrees: B.S.,
T e a c h e r 3
Pennsylvania.
C o r n e ll
Ph.D.,
Utah.

Experience: Grade school
and high school teach-
er in Pennsylvania.
Consultant, instructor,

State
C o l l e g e ,

M . S .,
University.
University of

 

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TitAenm

November, 1960

and director for nature study in camps in Penn-
sylvania, New Hampshire, and Texas. National staﬂ‘
of Girl Scouts as nature study director. Consulting
specialist, Dugway Ecological Laboratory. Associ-
ate Director, NSF Summer Institute, University of
Utah. Research grants (NSF).

NAB'I‘ Activities: Consultant, N.-\B'l‘ North Central

States Biology 'l‘eachers Conference, 1955. State
membership chairman, L'tah. Member, Conserva—
tion Committee.

Organization A/le’l/l/Ierlei/i and Activities: President,

South ’l‘cxas Science 'l‘eachers Association. Editor,
Newsletter, ANSS. Vice—President, Conservation
Education :-\ssociation. .\leml)er, NARST, Sigma.
Xi, Utah Academy of Science, \Vilderncss Society,
Soil Conservation Society of America, State Gen-
eral Science Curriculum Committee, NSTA, State:
Conservation Education Council, Biological Society
of Washington, l",ntomolog'\' Society of Washing—
ton, AAUP, Nature Conservancy, Society of Sys-
tematic Zoologists. l’ellow, .r\;\.~\S, 'I‘exas Academy
of Science. Member, Natural Resources Council
of America. Past \Vestern Section,
ANSS. President, L'tah Nature Study
Society.

President,

A NSS.

Publications: 35 papers in zoology.

Candidate for Second Vice-President
Sister Hilaire
Present Position: Chair-
man and Professor of
Biology, Rosary Col-
lege, River Forest, Illl-
nois.

Degrees: A.B., NI.A., and
Ph.D., Universny of

Illinois.

Erperience: 39 years of
teaching at college
level. Professor of Bl-
ology, College of N€W
Rochelle, New RO‘
chellc, New York.

Participant, School and College Workshop, Unl‘

VerSitY Of Chicago. Participant, Summer Institute

for Teachers of College Botany, Cornell Univer-

Sity.

 

NABT Activities: Participant, North Central States
Conference for Biology Teachers. Member, 1111‘
nois State Membership Committee. Chairman,
Catholic Ai’lembership Committee.

Publications: Microthvriaceae, M ycologia and U”:
”8751'” 0f Illinois illonograpb series. Effects 0
Water Source on Toxicity of :V‘Iercurial PmsonS,
lournal 0f Heredity, 1951:

 




 

Vol. 22, N0. 8

Candidate for Second Vice-President

Brother G. Nicholas, F.S.C.

Present Position: Re-
search Associate, De-
partment of Biology,
Notre Dame Univer-
sity, Notre Dame, Indi-
ana. Instructor, Holy
Cross School of Nurs—
ing, South Bend, Indi-

3.1121.

Degrees: B.S., Catholic
University. M.S., Uni—
versity of Pittsburgh.
Ph.D., University of
Notre Dame.

Experience: Biology Teacher. LaSalle High School,
Cumberland, Maryland. Directed excavations, Cum-
berland Bone Cave.

 

NABT Activities: Member, Cooperative Committee
of AAAS, Membership Committee. Chairman,
State Membership Committee. Assistant editor,

ABT.

Organization Membership and Activities: President,
National Speleological Society. Fellow, AAAS.
Member, Council of AAAS, New York Academy
of Sciences, Pennsylvania Academy of Science, So-
ciety of Systematic Zoologists, Society of Mam—
malogy, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, Alpha Epsi-
lon Delta, Teacher Preparation Committee of

BSCS, AIBS.

Publications: Checklist of Macroscopic Troglobitic
Organisms of the United States, American Mid—
land Naturalist, July, 1960. Articles in ABT, Science,
Scientiﬁc Monthly, Scientiﬁc American, Proceed-
ings of the Pennsylvania Academy of Science.

Candidate for Third Vice—President
Robert L. Smith

Present Position: Chair-
man, Biology Depart—
ment, DeKalb High
School, DeKalb, Illi—

nois.

Degrees: B.E., Illinois
State Normal Univer-
sity, M.A., (zoology),
University of Michi-
gan.

Experience: State chair-
man, Illinois Junior
Academy of Science,

. 1949-51. Elementary
SCience .consultant, Illinois Department of Public
InStiucuon- Participant, Darwin Centennial Cele—
rathn, University of Chicago.

N ABT Activities: State and Regional Chairman, Con-
S§rVat10n Project. National Membership Chairman
Smce.1955. Participant, North Central Conference
on BIOIOgy Teaching.

Organzzmz'on Membership and Activities: Member,

 

NOMINATIONS FOR 1961 OFFICERS

503

ANSS, NSTA, Illinois Junior Academy of Science,
Northern Illinois Association of Biology Teachers.

Publications: Contributing author, NABT Conserva-
tion Handbook. Article ‘on biology clubs in ABT.

Candidate for Secretary-Treasurer

Herman C. Kranzer

Present Position: Asso-
ciate Professor of Ele-
mentary Education,
Teachers College,
Temple University,
Philadelphia, Pennsyl-

vania.

Degrees: B.S., (forestry),
M.A., (education),
University of Michi-
gan; Ed.D., U.C.L.A.

Experience: Taught sci-
ence and conservation,
Work—Learn Camp for
Older Youth, Michigan; Teacher-counselor, Clear
Lake Camp, Battle Creek Schools. Outdoor Educa—
tion Director, Culver City, California. Director,
Conservation Workshop, West Chester State Col-
lege, Pennsylvania. NDEA lecturer in elementary
science. Director, Conservation Education Labora—
tory for Teachers, Pennsylvania State University.
Assistant Professor of Science Education, Pennsyl-
vania State University.

NABT Activities: Secretary-Treasurer, 1960.

Organization Membership and Activities: Member,
NSTA, Pennsylvania Science Teachers Association,
Conservation Education Association, Phi Delta
Kappa. Board of Directors, Pennsylvania Forestry
Association. NSTA Teaching Materials Review
Committee.

Publications: Education in the Out-of—Doors, Penn-
sylvania School Study Council. Bulletin of the
Michigan Secondary School Association. A Corn-
munity School Work-Learn Camp, Michigan De-
partment of Public Instruction. Article in Metro-
politan Detroit Science Review.

 

Candidate for Recording Secretary

Frances L. Behnke

Degrees: B.S., M.A., Uni-
versity of Arkansas.
Ph.D., Teachers Col-

lege, Columbia Unive r-

sity.
Experience: Science
teacher, Little Rock,

Arkansas, and Atlanta,
Georgia. Faculty, Barn-
ard College and Hunter
College. John Hay
Whitney Fellow, Col-
umbia University.
Member, Science Man-
ower Project. Consultant, Thomas Alva Edison

Foundation.

 

 

 

 




 

 

504

NABT Activities: State chairman, C()llSCf\{Ztl()ll
Project. Local chairman, AAAS meetIngs.‘l em-
ber, Local Arrangements Committee, AAAS m‘cct-I
ings, 1956. Participant, North Central Conference
for Biology Teachers. . .. .

Organization Membership and Activities: . Vice.-
President, Iota Sigma Pi. Member, AIBS, Georgia
Academy of Science.

Candidate for Recording Secretary
Audrey E. Pressler

Present Position: Biology
Teacher, Frederick
High School, Fred—
erick, Maryland.

Degrees: A.B., Hood Col-
lege. Candidate for
MS, University of
Michigan.

Experience: High school
biology teacher for
many years. Partici-
pant, NSF Summer In-
stitute for teachers of

High School Biology,

 

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY 'I I«:..\(:Inr.tt

N member, 1960

Indiana University; \\'riting Conference for Source-
book, .\lichig:tn State University. Awarded NSF"
fellowship for University of Michigan. NSTA
STAR program \vtnner.

N/IB'I‘ x’lt'ti-z‘ities: State .\lembership Chairman, Mary-
land. Member, Conservation Committee. Local
chairman, :\:\;\S meetings, 1958.

()rgauim/io/I .lIem/n'rs/ﬁ/i .mtl Activities: Member,
NICK, \S'IA. Reviewer, .v\ll’»S Film Series, Mem--
ber, \\'elfare and \ominating Committees, Mary-
land State 'l‘eachers .\ss(iciati()n. Treasurer and
\'ice-President. .\lar\'land Science Teachers Asso-
ciation. - of Board Of
’l‘rustees, .\larvland Biology 'l‘eachers Association.
Member of Iixecntn e (Iommittec and Chairman
of ’I‘eacher \Velfare (Ionnnittee, Frederick County
Teachers Association. (Iorresponding Secretary,
Frederick (Ionntv Science 'I‘eachers Association.
Past President. junior \\'oman‘s Club and Fred-
erick Ilootl (ihtb.

Secretarv and .\lember

l’lt/i/imlious: .\I‘ticlc in 'l'/.‘e Science Teacher. One Of
authors. I.t'l/7())'t‘lf//I"l .ii/J l‘iic/tl Studies I’ll Biology.

 

 

Book Reviews

THE CELL, FOUNDATIONS OF MODERN BIOLOGY
SERIES, Carl P. Swanson, 114 pp., $51.50, Pren-

tice—Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey,
1960.

An auspicious begining for a series which
should be on every biology teacher’s bookshelf.
Well illustrated, this slender paper—backed volume
is written in an easy, readable, but information—
packed style. The author includes in this effort
to present the latest in cytology, something Of the
history of the cell concept, exceptions to its gen-
eralities, tools and techniques, structure and me-
.tabolism, mitosis and meiosis, reproduction in
plants and animals, embryology, and cell death.

porates much Of the new
concepts of embryology. Heartily and enthusi-
astically recommended.

P.K.

, James F. Crow,
g Company, Minne-

GENETICS NOTES, Fourth Edition

149 pp., Burgess Publishin
apolis, Minnesota, 1960.

This is a spiral-bound book b i ' '

. . . ' y a dIstIn uished
genet1c1st thch 18 precisely what its title gimplies
—notes for a genetics course. The right hand pages
are conSIStently blank for right-hand writers who

want to take further notes. The book is engag-
inglv and simply written a tine capsule summardy
ofkthe major genetic concepts. ICach chapter en S
with excellent problems. The book Progresses
rapidly from .\lendelian laws, and.WIth1n 111131:
chapters is into biochemical genetics and end
with material on the origin of life. Recommende
for those teachers \vhtisc genetics coursesWere
sometime ago as well as the neophyte who 1511181?
beginning.

P.K.

Tm: lint'tnvrtox or 'I‘I-‘,.\t:tntus; CL’RRICULUM PRO”
GRAMS, Kansas II’I’S Conference, 453 PE"
$3.50, National lidncation Association Of t e
United States. \Vashington, I). Cw 1959' . _
This is the next conference I'CPOrt in the 5-6111?

begun at Bowling (ireen, Ohio. As the title mar-

cates, the primary emphasis is on teacher lifegyas
ation rather than certification. The NAB labo-
represented in this conference although £10 e rep“
rate emphasis is made on selence “33C er pOrt
aration. In large measure, the Garrett fit”;
prepared under the auspices of t1“,3 COOPEC rec-

Committee of the AAAS, is the basis for t . tro-

ommendations for science teacherS- Thedlntails.

duction is an excellent summary 0f the r: am-

Individual college programs forteacher dpinpt is

tion are summarized. Anv one mtereSte

area will have this volume available P K-

 




 

Vol.22, No. 8

THE SEAHORSE AND ITS RELATIVES, Gilbert Whit-
ley, Joyce Allan, 84 pp., $6.00, Charles T. Bran-
ford Company, Boston, Massachusetts, 1958.

A delightful, little Australian book on seahorses
and their relatives. There are numerous illustra-
tions. Anatomy, habits, classiﬁcation, and their
very interesting and unusual sex life are told in an
interesting style. One chapter on culturing the
ﬁsh should be of particular interest to teachers.

P.K

GOOD HEALTH, Benjamin F. Miller and Zelma
Miller, 546 pp., $6.00, W. B. Saunders
Company, Philadelphia, Pa., 1960.

A very good high school and freshman
college text directed to those areas of study
which rightfully belong to health education.
The authors have made a direct approach to
the problems of maintaining good health, thus
avoiding any negative, moral, or morbid at-
titudes.

Use Of this book would eliminate the com-
mon practice of many teachers and texts to
make the course one Of physiology and anato—
my. Certainly the use Of this book would be
more meaningful following a good course
In biology; however, the presentation is such
that this is not imperative. The subject mat—
ter is such as to make the student aware of
hlS responsibility for public health as well
as for himself. '

Virgil Heniser
Howe High School
Indianapolis, Indiana

MEDICINAL PLANTS OF THE ARID ZONES,
UNESCO, 96 pp., $3.00, Columbia University
Press, New York, 1960.

This booklet, Part XIII in the UNESCO
Arid Zone research series, considers the botan—
Ical and pharmacological aspects of a number
of hlgher plants of the more arid regions of
the world. Particular attention is also given
to the commercial possibilities. An extensive

bibliography is included.

SCIENCE MATERIALS—PREPARATION AND Ex-
HIBITION FOR THE CLASSROOM, GORDON G.
Pond. vi + 132 p., $52.75, Wm. C. Brown
C9, Dubuque, Iowa, 1959.

The biology teacher’s desk is the frequent
rePOSItOl‘y for animals, plants, rocks, and an
almost inﬁnite array of Objects brought by
Stlldents to “Show the teacher.” Most t€3Ch€rS

 

BOOK REVIEWS

505

are happy to have students express their inter-
est by bringing in these specimens and use
them to teach the student something about
science. One of the best ways to encourage
this kind of activity is to have the student
prepare their Specimens for display to other
students. Pond’s little book contains informa-
tion about how to prepare these displays and
the more formal exhibits used for teaching
purposes. Information is included on the prep-
aration of labels and setting of displays of
materials in anthropology, geology, paleon—
tology, zoology, and botany. Illustrated direc-
tions are given for making models, plaster
casts, plastic embedded specimens, study Skins,
herbarium specimens, and many other kinds of
preparations. A short section on the presenta-
tion Of projects for science fairs is included.
This book is set up for use as a text by the
inclusion of perforated quiz sheets at the end
of each chapter. Its primary value, however,
is as a reference source rather than as a text-
book.
]Ohn M. Hamilton
Park College
Parkville, Missouri

THE WILD MAMMALS OF MISSOURI, Charles
W. Schwartz and Elizabeth R. Schwartz,
xvi + 341 p., $5.95, University of Missouri
Press, Columbia, Missouri. 1959.

The Missouri Conservation Commission has
been fortunate for many years to have the
services of Charles and Elizabeth Schwartz.
The former is an artist with the knack of
capturing his subjects with his. pen so that
they look alive, yet clearly Illustrate tax-
onOmic details. Together, the Schwartzes have
produced exceptional wildlife ﬁlms, books, and

articles.

This book contains ﬁfty—seven full page

lates, each devoted to a Single species. Most
of these plates include drawmgs Of the animals
in their natural environment; dorsal, ventral,
and lateral views of the skulls, feet, and
other taxonomic details. In addItion, one or
more ﬁgures is to be found. on-each page of
text. These Show the distribution In North
America, ecological characteristlcs, tracks, and
other aspects of the life Of the mammals dis-
cussed. The text, written for the non—SpeCIalIst,
contains a wealth of useful information pre-
sented in a delightful manner. In addition to
descriptions of the animals, there are discus-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

506

sions of the habits, homes, foods, and economic
control and importance of each of the malor
species described. .

Because of the diversity of habitats pro-
vided by the state, The Wild Mammals of
Missouri includes most of the mammals found
in Central United States and is useful over
a much wider area than the title implies.
The price is unusually low for a book as well
illustrated as this one.

John M. Hamilton
Par/e College
Par/eville, Missouri

A LABORATORY MANUAL FOR LIFE SCIENCE,
Herbert Drapkin, iii —l— 129 p., $2.40; N-P
Publications, Palo Alto, California, 1959.
This is a manual for a one-semester course

in biology for non-science majors. Much Of

the work is on living or freshly killed organ-
isms, and many of the exercises involve simple
experiments by students working in groups.

The directions are clearly written, and they

should contribute to the learning process of

the student. Numerous optional experiments
are suggested. Except for an exercise on

Protozoa, the work is limited to vertebrates

and higher plants. Four of the exercises are

on systems of the fetal pig. There are no
exercises on embryology or ecology.

John M. Hamilton
Park College
Par/eville, Missouri

WARD AND WHIPPLE’s FRESH-WATER BIOLOGY,
2nd ed., W. T. Edmondson, Ed., xx
1248 p., $34.50, John Wiley & Sons, New
York, 1959.

Ward and Whipple’s Fresh Water Biology
played such an important role in turning my
interests to biological science that it seems
appropriate that I abandon tradition and
review the new edition in the ﬁrst person.
One can hardly speak of an old friend in the

impersonal way that one is expected to write
book reVIews.

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

November, 1960’

of animals to be found in ponds and streams.
and learning that it was possible to find the
names of these creatures and something about
their habits. l was determined that someday
I would own a copy of that book. It was
several vears before I did, but for twenty-ﬁve
years l'have been reaching for my copy ﬁrst
when trying to identify a strange animal,
knowing that the answer I would find would
be out of date, but this book always seemed
to be the logical place to start. Certainly it
was an important factor in starting me on the
road toward becoming a biologist. I think that
this is a good example of something that we
teachers tend to forget—that the right book
placed in the hands of a student at the right
time may do more to stimulate him than
our most brilliant class presentation or our
most carefully prepared laboratory exercise.

The total format of the new Fresh Water
Biology is similar at ﬁrst glance to the old,
but is, at last, brought up to date. It is still
essentiallv a book of illustrated keys, with
introductorv material for each group to enable
the nonspeCialist to make a tentative identi-
ﬁcation of his specimen. \\'. T. Edmondson
has made wise decisions in the changes that
were made in the second edition of this work.
The internal parasites, H. B. \Vard’s specialty,
have been omitted since they are not truly
aquatic except for brief free—swimming Stages-
The aquatic vertebrates have been excluded
since there are other books in which they
are covered much more completely than could
be done in a work of this size. The spldCfS
associated with the water are also excluded.
On the other hand, the bacteria and the
vascular plants have a much more complete
coverage than in the ﬁrst edition. The brYO'
phytes, tardigrades, and polychaets. Wthh
were not included in the ﬁrst edition are
treated here.

Each chapter is devoted to a major}???
onomic group and is treated by a Sp€C13l15t'
The authors include such well known blOl-
ogists as F. K. Sparrow (Fungi), L. E. Noland
(Ciliophora), L. H. vaan (Coelenterata
and part of the Turbellaria), H. B. Hunger-
ford (Hemiptera), H. S. Conard (Bryophytali
and manv others. Two workers W. R: C06
(Nemertea) and J. P. Moore (Hirudmeala
have revised the sections they wrote for the
original edition published in 1918. Edmond-

 




 

Vol. 22, N0. 6’

son’s chapter on the rotifers should make it
possible for a Student tO identify many Of the
specimens he encounters Of this difﬁcult
group. As in the old edition, the ﬁgures which
accompany the keys are a great help in iden-
tiﬁcation.

I am sure that most fresh—water biologists
join me in welcoming this new edition Of an
old friend. It is unfortunate that the publishers
found it necessary to set the price so high,
for this will keep the new Ward and Whipple
from the shelves of many biology teachers
where its presence might stimulate students
to choose biology as their ﬁeld Of study.

John M. Hamilton
Par/e College
Par/«ville, Missouri

DR. CARLOS J. FINLAY, BOOKLET ON SANITATION
HISTORY, 140 pp., Ministry Of Health and HOS—
pital’s Assistance, Havana, Cuba, 1959.

An addition tO the library on the history Of
selence. Published on the occasion Of Dr. Finlay’s
nomination t0 the Hall of Fame, all the pertinent
documents concerning his life and his scientiﬁc
dlscoveries are compiled here.

P.K.

HUMAN DEVELOPNHCN'I‘, Phyllis C. Martin,
Elizabeth Lee Vincent, William A. Osburn,
541 pp., $6.50, Ronald Press Company, New
York 10, 1960.

This is a most unusual book for elementary
college courses in human anatomy and phys-
Iology. Written with strong Overtones Of
psychology, embryology, and developmental
anatomy, the treatment Of this traditional
course should be considerably enlivened by
thouse of this book as a text.‘ When psycho-
logical ideas are presented, it is done with
direct reference tO the human body, anatom-
lcally and/or physiologically. Each body
System also includes some embryological
dCYCIOpment. It seems, all in all, a most apprO-
priate text for the age level of students
normally in college classes.

ertten in quite a readable style, the authors
are to be congratulated for packing into each
Chapter a wealth Of information presented in
a Way students will enjoy reading about.

haPt€r end material includes a selected list
Of aPpr0priate films.

. he chapter on skin was most fascinating
Wlth Information seldom found in this type

BOOK REVIEws

507

Of text. But tO the biologist, it will be a pleasure
to ﬁnd man described continually in reference
tO his place in the biotic and physical world.
A listing Of chapter headings may give a false
impression that this is just another anatomy
and physiology text. But a reading will con-
Vince the teacher that this is truly a text tO
consider.

P. K.

OPERATION NEW YORK, USING THE NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT OF THE CITY As A CURRICU-
LUM RESOURCE, 117 pp., $1.00, Board Of
Education Of the City Of New York, 1960.

One Of the most unusual little volumes tO
cross this editor’s desk. Even the way it was
written has a ﬂair not found in most books.
This is the result Of a curriculum study
carried out by persons with a variety Of back-
grounds and then tested. The result is not
the usual report, but it is a resource bOOk on
how to use an urban environment for biologi-
cal education. It is truly a unique volume.

Although it is tailored for the New York
City area, Other urban biology teachers can
learn a great deal from this. It starts with a
study of the stone in the school building it—
self,'going on to gutters, drainpipes, etc. Soon
the biological environment is discussed. A
variety of ecological situations are described,
and soon the richness Of the biological com-
munities in an area such as New York City
is unfolded in amazing detail. Then the
changes which occur during the year are
noted. The booklet concludes with a descrip—
tive listing of the main areas Of New York
and its rich variety Of teaching resources.
Urban biology teachers will do well to ex—
amine this bOOk. P.K.

FOSSIL PLANTS OF INDIANA, Report Of Progress
NO. 14, James E. Canright, 45 pp., $5.75,
Indiana Department of Conservation, Geo—
logical Survey, Bloomington, Indiana, 1959.

An illustrated booklet for biologists inter-
ested in the fossil remains Of biological speci-
mens. There is an introduction of geological
background, types Of fossils, and maps Of
fossil bed locations. Emphasis is on the coal-
forming plants. The booklet concludes With
a phylogenetic listing of the fOSSII plants and
illustrations. A handy reference.

P. K.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

EXPOSED!

 

INFECTIONS ' - ~

HANDS—most active in distribution of INFECTION! For the manage-
ment and handling of specimen containers requiring a label, use a
“no-lick" TIME Tape or TIME Specimen Collection Label for service, a
new advancement specified in the “Guide to Laboratory Safety".*

Every dressing, every collection of
specimen, blood, sputum, etc. requires
hand service. Eliminate contact by
using the satin finish, vinyl coated
TIME Tape or Label.

A qualified consultant will teach y0.U
the effective TIME procedure. If '5
your first step to a safer laboratorY-
Write today to Dept. FH.

* In April I960 issue of Lab World.

\ PROFESSIONAL TAPE CO., INC.
355 BURLINGTON AVE. . RIVERSIDE, Ill-
chkory 7-7800

 

 




 

BARRON’S TEEN-AGE SUMMER GUIDE, M.
Reinhold, 148 pp., $1.50, Barron’s Educa—
tional Series, Inc., Great Neck, New York,
1960.

A very handy paper—back for school coun-
selors and parents. Opportunities are listed for
useful summer activities for youngsters 14—18.
Liberally illustrated, the topics covered are
travel, domestic and foreign, camps, wilder-
ness trips, work camps, summer jobs, study,
and a useful appendix listing many opportun-
ities by geographic region. A host of useful
tips for teenagers in obtaining these activities.

P. K.

VERTEBRATE DISSECTION, Warren F. Walker,
Jr., 340 pp., W . B. Saunders Company,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1960.

This is a laboratory manual for the study
of comparative anatomy. The drawings are
good, and there is a very informative appendix
on preservation of animal specimens. Elaborate
dissection instructions are a ﬁne feature.

P. K.

9/"

 

ANATOMY STUDY CARDS

Completely illustrating the human body-
skeleton, muscles and muscle insertions

SET I otters thorough coverage of the Skeleton, Muscles and
Muscle Insertions. Over 100 anatomical illustrations scientiﬁcally
"ﬂanked on 21 laminated cards. Already in wide use as 0
"WAY aid and refresher, SET I has been recommended for
°d°Ption by many Anatomy, Art, Nursing, Biology. PYO'MCd and
"‘73- Ed. instructors. Examination cards are available for inter
ested faculty members.

(Door 90 illustrations of (4) vertebrates
on 21 Double-Faced, pocket-size cards

SET 3 “We” ihe COMPARATIVE anatomical structure of four
vertebrates: The Cat, Frog, Shark and Necturus. Over 90 black
and White illustraﬁOns °" 2] I("bloated cards. Each of the four
yertebrates is treated separately in full anatomical detail includ-
mg °PPr0priare nomenclature throughout. Organized as a handy,
OUthomoﬁve reference and study for students and teachers.

lIST PRICE — $2.50 CARD SIZE 2‘/2"x 3V2"

 

SiUdent Merchandise, Inc. 350 Fifth Ave.,
NEW YORK. N. Y.

To Serve

DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDUDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDEl

The Busy Biologist

The Cooperative Advertiser

Recognizing the pressure of your duties and
knowing your interest in the products that our
advertisers have to otter in the ﬁeld of biology.
you need only put checks on the squares below.
sign the coupon and mail it to Muriel BeuschleinI

643! S. Richmond St.. Chicago 29. Illinois.

December, 1960

American Optical
Armstrong Associates
Barnes and Noble
Bausch and Lomb
Biological Research
Carolina Biological
Connecticut Valley
Contemporary Films
Denoyer-Geppert
Difco Laboratories
Doubleday

Edmund Scientiﬁc
Elgeet Optical
General Biological
Graf-Apsco

Harvard Apparatus
D. C. Heath

Henry Holt

Charles Lane
National Biological
A. J. Nystrom and Co.
Professional Tape
W. B. Saunders
Sheldon Equipment
Student Merchandise
Swift Instruments
Triarch Products
Unitron

D. Van Nostrand
Visual Sciences
Ward’s Natural Science
Welch Scientiﬁc

(Please Print)

N a meﬂw»———————

Position.—J___.___-__-__

brochure
brochure
literature
catalog D-1079
catalog
catalog

‘ catalog
literature
circular S31
literature
literature
catalog AX
literature
catalog #62
catalog
literature
literature
literature
literature
catalog
NDEA catalog
literature
literature
information
literature
literature
catalog 11a
catalog
literature
free folder
catalog 608—AB
catalog

 

 

 

 

School N a me__'__________.#_.____.__

School Address

City__.#~———————-—~—"——‘—’

 

.__._._.__.—. __—-———

’—_—————_————————-—

State

.__——.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

A BRILLIANT FILM . . .

, JOURNEY
INTO SPRING

The coming of spring to
the English countryside, A
detailed observation of
animal, pond and plant
life; in exquisite color that
exposes the fascinating
world that lies behind the
English country scene.

0 16mm Sound '

. Color; 30 min.
,- 0 Rental: $I0
0 Sale: $250

(-3. Send For Our Latest
Catalog of Outstanding Films.

Contemporary films inc.

 
  
    
 
  
  
  
   

267 W. 25 St., Dept. ABT, N. Y. I
Midwest Ottice
614 Davis St., Evanston, Ill.

ORegon 5-7220

DAvis 8-24II

 

 

 

Triarch Products

‘—

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fine Microscope Slides tor
Discriminating Biologists

 

More than l.000.000 Triarch Slides
have been sold to over I200 Colleges
and Universities throughout the world.
Ask them tor an appraisal!

***

For current Catalog No. Ila
write to:

GEO. H. CONANT

Riponl Wisconsin

 

a

 

Rare Insect-Eating Plants
Fascinating Study Proiects

 

Watch Venus’s Fly Traps lure, catch and eat insects.
Bright colored traps seize unwary victims as shown
here. Fascinating for biology, botany, science class
study. Easily-grown bulbs sprout leafy traps within
weeks. Special school price, six bulbs, sphagnum
moss, color picture and culture instructions, $3.50
postpaid. Three bulb package $I.95. Germination
guaranteed. Free brochure.

ARMSTRONG ASSOCIATES, INC.
Box I27 B, Basking Ridge N. J.

 

 

 

 

 

WE SPECIALIZE

IN DEPENDABLE AND EXTENSIVE
SETS OF LIVING CULTURES

 

Brown Planaria as supplied in. the
High School Invertebrate Set.

L52h High School Protozoan Set (5 cultures)
L52k Debris and Plankton Collection .
L54 High School Invertebrate Set (6 representatives)
LGIIIS Drosophila Set (2 cultures)
AGIOO Genetics Set Kit
LB|9 Large Set of Ten Algae (individually packed)
L827 Lichen Set (4 species)
LBI22 lnsectivorous Plant Set (5 specimens)

—We Guarantee Safe Arrival .
of All Living Materlals—

For more information on the many sets available and for
Immediate class orders write to —

CAROLINA BIOLOGICAL

SUPPLY COMPANY
ELON COLLEGEl NORTH CAROLINA
Free Catalog Available to Teachers

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Creative Teaching Unlimited

With the A0 Spencer Cycl0ptic Stereoscopic Microscope

See exquisite detail in 3-D

The A0 Spencer CYCLOPTIC Stereoscopic Micro-
SCOP? exposes the student to three-dimensional micro-
sc0p1§ worlds beyond the scope of their everyday
experiences. Gross specimens, such as fossils, insects,

ark, larva, etc., assume new proportions of interest
When seen in sharp, erect, magniﬁed three-dimen-
SIOnal detail.

If at all possible, there should be at least one AO
CYCLOPTIC in every biology class .. .set up and
readily available for use by all students. Invite them
t9 [.108 In their own specimens for study and 3-D
Vlesz‘a’fl‘he student’s~interest is aroused...he partici-
pates act1vely...the learning process is quickened.

American Optical

SPENCER

Company

INSIIUMINI DIVISION. IUNALO IS. NIW YORK

 

Study living chick embryo during development

Observe teeming infusoria iungle in 3-D

AO Spencer CYCLOPTIC Stereoscopic Micro-
scopes are built to withstand hard usage by the most
active class. Rugged, construction guarantees years of
service. Special ”Permanent” bonding agent assures
positive prism alignment. Tough baked, epoxy enamel
ﬁnish resists chipping, abrasrons and chemical deteri-

ation.
orThe unchallenged superiority of the AO CYCLOP-
TIC has been time-tested and performance proved.. .
thousands are in daily use in education, research and

' d t . _
1n (ildlgiful 36 page brochure is yours for the asking,

mail handy coupon below.

DEPT. M58

Please send SB56 brochure on A0 Spencer CYCLOPTIC

Stereoscopic Microscope.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




- Saunders Books -

College level texts also valuable as references for the

 

secondary school instructor or for class use in accelerated

 

Marshall & Lazier —
An Introduction To

H UMAN ANATOMY

This text presents a clear. complete. inte-
grated picture of human anatomy for the
beginning student. Brief discussions on
the functional reasons for various struc-
tures are included.

The text progresses from gross anatomy
to the finer structures. giving the student
the opportunity to satisfy his general
curiosity before settling down to the
more detailed work involved in the study
of cells and tissues.

An introductory chapter acquaints the
student with the definitions. methods.
spatial relations and planes of reference
he will use in his work. Footnotes give
the meaning and derivation of the new
and difficult terms confronting the stu-
dent. Muscles are discussed in functional
groups. providing a logical way of re-
membering and associating individual
muscles.

Paragraphs entitled "Practical Considera-
tions" briefly outline what happens when
a particular muscle or nerve is iniured.
329 labeled drawings give the student
the clearest and best possible presen-
tation.

By CLYDE MARSHALL, M.D., Formerly Assist-
ant Professor of Anatomy, Yale University
School of Medicine. Revised by EDGAR
L_AZlER, Ph_.D., Professor of Zoology. Univer-
sity of California at Los Angeles. 420 pages,
5%" x 8l/2”, with 329 illustrations. $4 50

Fourth Edition:

Available at College
Bookstores or by
Ordering Direct From...

 

 

    
  

programs

Homer—THE VERTEBRATE BODY

Here is a superior study of comparative anatomy for general college
students and especially for those planning further study in any specific
or related phase of biology. A study of the form and function of the
vertebrate body is interwoven with embryological, paleontological. his-
tological and evolutionary material. Coverage is truly comparative and
does not overemphasize human structure. A wealth of illustrations help
the student see beyond those observations he has made in the labora-
tory. Function is fully considered, making it possible to understand the
relations of the various systems within the animal and the animal in
relation to its environment. Teaching aids include supplementary refer-
ences and two appendices on Synoptic Classification of Vertebrates
and Scientific Terminology. Histological discussions show the basic
materials of which gross structures are composed and offer an appre-
ciation of the function and existence of glands.

By ALFRED SHERWOOD ROMER, Alexander Agassiz Professor of Zoology.
Director, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard UniverSity. 644 pages.
6" x 9%,", with 390 illustrations. $7.00. Second Edition.

Homer — The Shorter Version of
the Second Edition of THE
VEHTEBRATE BODY

Designed for a shorter course in comparative anatomy. this book is a
skillful abridgement of the longer Romer text described above. All
maior items of the original work are incorporated and the famous
clarity and easy understanding still prevail. Every one of the 390 excel-
lent illustrations has been retained. Text material has been meticulously
rewritten. not merely condensed. The first three chapters. including
introductory material on the vertebrate body plan. the natural history
topics. discussions on family trees and the handy appendices are repro-
duced without change. The author gives an interesting account of the
phanges Uhdergone by the vertebrates in the course of their eventful
istory.

By ALFRED SHERWOOD ROMER. 486 pages. 6" X 9'/4”. With 390 ”IUSiraEEOES.

if w. B. SAUNDERS COMPANY
5

{5&4

West Washington Square
Philadelphia 5, E:

  
 

 




 

 

[gee] of Rochester. . . Presents:

  
    
    
   

Elgeef-OLYM PUS Model 5-2

only

$99.45

in lots of five

list price $110.50 each

Elgeef OPTICAL 00., IN

 

. . . a new slant
on Student-Teaching

Pictured standard model 5-2
with double revolving nose-
piece with hard-coated parfo-
cal, achromatic interchange-
able IOX (N.A. .25) and
40X (N.A. .65) obiectives.
Built-in revolving aperture
disk to control illumination.
10X Huygenian coated lens
eyepiece. Choice of concave
mirror or interchangeable 20
watt illuminator (Model LSK)
as shown.

Write for information on other

student-teaching models and
complete microscope line.

C. . . . SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT

microscopes

Science means progress, and to help
both teachers and students meet the
challenge of a changing world, Elgeet
presents a superb new microscope
with research instrument features
never before offered in student-teach-
ing models!

The inclined eyepiece is typical of
the many new features, extending to
students the beneﬁts of unsurpassed
convenience, ease of operation, and ef-
ﬁciency combined with working com-
fort, resulting in maximum learning
possibilities even over prolonged pe-
riods of close concentration.

Rugged and versatile, the Elgeet-
Olympus is precision engineered and
designed for years of trouble-free serv-
ice and priced for educators seeking

the very best . . . on a budget.

MAIL COUPON NOW

Dept. SM—14

Elgeet Optical (30., Inc., Scientiﬁc In-

strument and Apparatus Div., 838

Smith Street, Rochester 6, New York.

[3 Please send me complete literature
on the New Elgeet-Olympus Micro-
scopes.

[j Please send name of Elgeet Dealer
nearest me for free demonstratlon.

Address ............................................. . .....

City ................................ State

   

HE
838 SMITH STREET 0 ROC H

(’W%WW....QW 6W0!"

 

  

AND APPARATUS DIVISION
STER 6, NEW YORK

 

 




 

PROTECT YOUR VALUABLE SPECIMEN COLLECTIONS
WITH "LANE" SPECIMEN CASES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HERBARIUM CASES ZOOLOGICAL AND
FOR STANDARD GENUS FOLDERS ORNITHOLOGICAL éﬂlSIEs
26
COMP'T'S
RIGHT HAND
DOOR SHOWN
FOR LARGE SKINS
LEFT HAND CAPACITY: 9 TRAYS
OPTIONAL
A65 283“;
I2
COMP'T'S
FOR SMALL SKINS
CAPACITY: 36 TRAYS

 

 

 

ENTOMOLOGICAL CASE

 

CAPACITY:

I2 GLASS TOP

INSECT DRAWERS RIGHT HAND
CORNELL OR DOOR ONLY
U. S. NAT'L TYPE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l05 CHAMBERS ST. CHAS-ﬂ °°RR NEW YORK 7. N. Y.

C]

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

(Ghoughtful revision of

a famous textbook

MODERN
BIOLOGY

1 960

Moon, Otto, and Towle

 

This present edition maintains the systematic organization which leads from basic prin-
ciples governing all life to more involved concepts; from simplest organisms to more
complex plants and animals and, ﬁnally, to man. The new material reﬂects recent
progress in diﬁerent phases of biology and medicine, radiation and biology, and bio-
logical problems of space travel. New full- -page anatomical drawings and a new
Trans- Vision of the human body.

Clearly-delineated Units of Study help students to inductively systematize and analyze
specific organisms and their diﬁ‘ering ways of life:

UNIT 1: BIOLOGY—THE SCIENTIFIC STUDY OF LIVING THINGS
UNIT 2: THE RELATIONSHIPS OF LIVING THINGS

UNIT 3: FLOWERLESS PLANTS

UNIT 4: THE HIGHER PLANTS

UNIT 5: THE INVERTEBRATES—ANIMALS WITHOUT BACKBONES
UNIT 6: ANIMALS WITH BACKBONES

UNIT 7: HOW BIOLOGY APPLIES TO OURSELVES

UNIT 8: BIOLOGY AND THE PROBLEMS OF DISEASE

UNIT 9: THE BIOLOGY OF HEREDITY

UNIT IO. SAFEGUARDING OUR NATURAL RESOURCES

All teaching aids available including BIOLOGY INVESTIGATIONS (Workbook), TESTS
IN BIOLOGY, Teacher's Manual, Teacher's Edition of BIOLOGY INVESTIGATIONS,
Keys to TESTS

HOLT, RINEHART AND WINSTON, INC.

383 Madison Avenue 536 Mission Stree5t
New York 17 San Francisco

 

 

\

 




 

' UNITRON STUDENT AUTO-lllUMINATION MICROSCOPE, MSA J

 

  
   
 

UNITRON STUDENT MICROSCOPE, MUS

Despite its low cost, UNITRON Model MUS offers
features lacking even in much more costly models
usually offered for student use. For example, both
fine and coarse focusing are provided — not
merely a single focusing control; an iris diaphragm
to regulate aperture for highest resolution -—- not
merely a disk diaphragm; and a condenser system
for optimum illumination.

The optical performance of Model MUS at each
of its magnifications is equivalent to that of expen-
sive research models. All mechanical parts are
machined to close tolerances and the stand is
beautifully finished in black and chrome. Model
MUS comes complete with triple revolving nose-
piece and three obiectives: 5X, 10X, 40X; choice
of two eyepieces from: 5X, 10X, 15X; coarse
focusing (accessory safety stop available); con-
denser with iris diaphragm; inclinable stand; plano-
concave mirror; wooden cabinet and dustcover.
Mechanical stage available at extra cost.

Unit price $74. each 5-l 0 $ 60
11-24 units $65.12 Units 66

The UNITRON Student Auto-Illumination Micro-
scope, Model MSA, employs a newly designed
stand in which all components and controls are
within easy reach. The inclined eyepiece tube
allows comfortable posture and may be turned in
any optional observing direction to permit two
students sitting side by side to share a single
instrument. With the built-in illuminating system of
the superior low-voltage type, each student is
assured of the correct lighting. The transformer is
conveniently housed in the microscope base itself
where it contributes to the stability of the stand
rather than to the clutter of the laboratory table.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Model MSA comes complete with triple revolving
nosepiece and three obiectives: 4X, 10X, 40X;
three eyepieces: 5X, 10X, 15X; coarse focusing
with safety stop; fine focusing; condenser and iris
diaphragm; filter holder and filter; accessory sub-
stage mirror; wooden cabinet and dustcover.
Mechanical stage available at extra cost.

Unit price $107 5-lO $9630
“-24 units $94.16 units

 

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
    




unexcelled quality (It

 

 
 
   
 
   
    
     
     
       
       
     
    
    
      
     
    
   
  

UNITRON DISSECTING ADS UNITRON PHASE MPEA

The first student phase
model ever to be offered.
Observe protozoa, plankton,
etc. in the living state without
chemical staining. Obiec-
tives: 4X, PlOX, P40X. Eye-
pieces: 8X, 15X. Con-
denser and phase dia-
phragm. Write for a reprint
of Professor Corrington's
article on this remarkable
instrument.

MPEAW$99

(f.o.b. Boston)

Heavy base, micrometric
rack and pinion focusing, arm
rests, mirror and background
plate, large glass stage
plate, Steinheil magnifiers.

ADS: for 10X, 20X
$32 5 O

ADSA: for 5X, 10X, 20X

$3650

 

    
 
     
     
      
    
   
   
  
           
   
         
        
          
   
  

UNITRON STEREOSCOPIC MSL UNITRON PHOTOMICROGRAPHY SET

 
 

Duplicates the perform-
ance of costly apparatus.
Fits any standard micro-
scope. Mounting brackets
adiust for your camera.
Viewing telescope allows
focusing and selection of
field while the camera is
in position.

Model ACA. . $3995

A wide field, binocular,
3-D dissecting model.
Diapter and interpupillary
adiustments. Removable
glass stage plate. One set
of eyepieces for 10X, 20X
or 30X included; others
available at extra cost.

Model MSL ..... $110

(f.o.b. Boston)

ACCEPT A FREE IO DAY "Hill

We invite you to try any UNITRON Microscope in your
own classroom for 10 days at absolutely no cost or
obligation. Let our instruments prove their value and
quality to you, before you decide to purchase. You will
see for yourself why UNITRON is the choice of America's
leading universities, schools, and industrial laboratories.

 
  

Uses the some large,
heavy stand as our re-
search models. Three ob-
lectives: 4X, 10X, 40X; three
eyepieces: 5X, 10X, 15X.
curse and fine focusing.
Condenser and iris dia-
phragm. Filter holder and
filter. Mechanic
available.

MLEB..........$II8

al stage

   
  
 
 

T
WEED COMPLETE CATALOG ON UNITRON
scores IS Youns FOR THE ASKING!

UNIT}? 01V

Gives co

mplete i f °
deScrib n ormation on the UNITRON Models
. ed a .
0f microsco:;v$ as well as on many Others for a" types INSTRUMENT COMPANY amlﬁlgilllgrlgssllEl/Illsl:
“Valuabl . ou Wlll find this informative publication 55 NEEDHAM ST" NEWT ' '

e addition to your ﬁles.

\mﬂm‘ﬂ zx~meu . .>V~A-f

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Please send me your complete catalog on

HIG - UNITRON Microscopes. 7| I

NoWl—(l)ER QUANT'TY DISCOUNTS Name and nﬂe_____ j |
e. ' FFERED ON MOST MODELS I l C H 8
Our Importa l’ Schoo or 0 eg

n announcement on page 453 I dd I

A ress
City State — I

 

 




 

 

 

BIOLOGIGAL RESEARGH PRODUCTS COMPANY

“WE have the talent to create”

“WE have the skill to produce”

“The laboratory where quality comes ﬁrst”
“Get more value for less money”

Little words that mean a lot. Important Big little words that are the very. basis
of our business. Words that have dynamic meaning. The thoughts behind these
words are the foundation of the Biological Research Products Co.

We do create ideas . . . that are COpied by our competitors.

We do produce in tremendous volume . . . unmatched elsewhere.
We do have the highest quality material . . . fully guaranteed.

We do get more value for less cost . . . we are eﬁicient.

We give you more value for your dollar . . . we pass the savings on.

Now We Prove It Again
"Vertebral-e Anatomy and Its Highlights"

Here is an all new set demonstrating that all we have, said above is true. This
is the teachers set to be used for demonstrational dissection. This is the bright
students set to be used as a project for the entire class. This is a set that can be
used by two students working as a team. This is a set that can be supplied to
every student if your budget allows it. Thisis a set that costs you just ten dollars
delivered anyplace in the United States.

Here is what you get . . .

Two nine to ten inch double injected foetal pigs, one male and one female.

One manual to assist in the dissection by Theron Odlaug.

One sheep brain with hypophysis and cranial nerves.

One sheep heart in the pericardial sac with blood vessels intact.

One sheep kidney.

One tongue and throat of the sheep for larynx, pharynx, esophagus and
trachea relationships.

One ox eye with the eyelids intact.

One dissection guide for the ox eye.

One piece of spinal cord from the ox.

The two foetal pigs are the main items in the set. They help you to teach systemic
and elrculatory prmCIpals. The other specimens are the highlights. They are the
enlargements whlch can be used to better advantage because of their size.

All of the. above comes to you in one gallon wide—mouth jar packed in a carton
that also includes the manual, the dissection guide and two plastic bags for the
foetal pigs.
Ten Dollars
Delivered to any point in the continental United States.

(Advertised only in the American Biology Teacher)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Double lniected Foetal Pig Is Used in Many
High Schools to Teach Their Students the

Facts of Mammalian Anatomy at Low Cost.

The l-iiological Research l’i‘Oducts Co. has a very good combina-
tion oll‘er that will save you considerable quantities of Your
sorely needed funds. This offer is the seven- to nine-inch double
injected foetal pig and the Odlaug dissection guide. These handy
sized little pigs are packed 4 per Wide-mouth gallon jar in a con-
venient—tti—handle carton that also includes 4 7771172717715 and four
play/iv /h‘/g.\‘. liach carton complete weighs only 14 pounds. This
light weight saves considerable freight, too.

Unit of l specimens ...................... $ 8.60

3 Units (Dozen specimens) .............. $ 23.00
13 Units (48 specimens) .................. $ 92.00
35 Units (100 specimens) ................. $184.00

All shipments are made prepaid and the shipping charges. Will be
added to vour invoice. You get only one bill and that includes

the pigs. the manuals and the: freight too.

The ()dlaug Dissection manual and the 7- to 9—inch double iii-
iected foetal pig is the best buy today. The arteries are inleeted
with red latex and the veins are injected With blue latex.

ALL ,llxl’l‘lz‘Iv’lzlL CARRIES A 100% GUARANTEE

BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH PRODUCTS CO.

243 West Root Streetl Stockyards Station
Chicago 9. III.

- uest.
A complete set of catalogues Will be sent to you on req

 

 

 

 




 

BICO

BLOOD

TYPING
SETS

 

blood grouping . . .
Rh factor . . .

hemoglobin
values . . .

 

Bico has developed these blood-typing sets to meet the requirements of today’s advanced
courses in biology and physiology. The determination of the blood group, the Rh factor,
and the hemoglobin value is quickly and easily demonstrated. The set is complete and
ready to use.

Included is a simpliﬁed instruction leaﬂet and a 66 page manual published by the
country’s leading blood preparation center. This manual presents a comprehensive,
authoritative discussion of the latest approved blood-typing methods and related topics.

 

Included in the set:

1 Anti-A Serum 5cc, BT-l Blood-typing Set .......................... 9.00
1 Anti-B Serum 5cc. BT 2 Bl clt . S i- b i . l d
1 Blood lancet , - . oo -yplng e , as a ove, a.so Incu es
1 Hemoglobin scale AntI-Rh typing serum ......................... 12.00
6 Slides . . BT-3 Set of 5cc. each of Anti-A and Anti-B serum ...... 4.50
1 Glass marking penCIl
l Sterilizing solution BT-4 Rh typing serum 2cc. ....................... 3.00
Mixing sticks
Instruction leaﬂet SW10 Hand lens 10x, for examining blood clumping. . . . 1.25

Blood typing manual

BICO STUDENT DISSECTION UNITS . . . No. SU-22

JUMBO SIZE SPECIMENS
OUTSTANDING VALUE

Most convenient way to order material for biology classes.
Each Unit in an individual glass jar. Superior specimens,
jumbo size: starﬁsh, earthworm, crayﬁsh, clam, perch, and
grass frog. Set of quiz sheets for each Unit included.

SU-22 ..................................... Each $1.59
12 or more, each ........ $1.40 50 or more, each $1.30

0 Free quiz sheets included with each student unit ordered

 

-—S I- ®MIBHUSBUPES

 

Unconditionally Guaranteed
Delivery from Stock

NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY CO., Inc.
230 W. Superior St. Chicago 10, Ill.

   

 

 

 

 

 




 

VARI-POWER
STEREO MICROSCOPE

  
  

Instant. positive powers
by dial changer

No annoying in-between powers
Parfocal from power to power
Flat. crisp image

Coated optics

Long working distance
Reversible, inclined body
Extension travel of rack block
Adiustable interpupillary distance.
50 mm.—80 mm.

Image always erect

Heavy. well-balanced sfand

Modern sand finish

 

000 00000000 0

This newly designed Swift Microscope
offers an improved concept in Wide-
field-Stereo microscope design. Instant
positive power change in a wide selec-
tion of magnifications by simple rofafion
of the Vari-Power drum. Positive click
action for each power selecfed; no
annoying in-befween powers. This Swift
ins’rrumen’r features a wide field of view
with long working distance and parfo-
cality from power to power. This instru-
ment is of rugged consfruc’rion and
serves many applications in diversified
fields of Education. Powers 7.5xI |0xl

 

.........

 
 
   
    
  
 

Model

SBWV-S l5x. 20x. 30x.
MODERN Mail Coupon Today FOR FREE DEMONSTRATION
FINISH I SWIFT INSTRUMENTS. Inc.

I 1572 N. Fourth Street, San Jose, California

 

29°00 : Without any obligation on my pa",

I
COMPLETE WITH : El Please schedule demonstration through
WOODEN CASE l authorized Swift dealer.

    

l
l
l
I
[:1 Please send me complete literature. I
I
l
l

“S WIFT INSTB UMBNTS, Inc. my: '''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' . ............. I

I572 N. mum 3mm - SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA Annnsss ................................ I
CITY ................... STATE .......... J

L—————————————-___—

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

See it of 3.5x or 120x

or anywhere

 
    

 

in between

Focus on any classroom
specimen—and see it in just the
size you want. Bausch & Lomb
StereoZoom® Microscopes

give you continuously variable
power. Just a turn of the knob gives you an inﬁnite
choice of repeatable magniﬁcations throughout the
entire stereo range of your instruments.

There’s a new “Power Pod” design, too. Completely
encloses the optical system in a single unit—
eliminates image jump and blackout and keeps out
dust, dirt, and sticky ﬁngers.

Bausch & Lomb StereoZoom Microscopes are priced
SchOOZ 0’ College well within your budget. Why
Address B AUSCH & LOMB not see one soon in a free

City Zone ...... State ,,,,,,,,,,,, SINCE? 1853 classroom demonstration?

BAUSCH & LOMB INCORPORATED

71811 Bausch St., Rochester 2, N. Y.

[:1 Please send Catalog D-15 with complete in«
formation on B&L StereoZoom Microscopes.

[:1 Please arrange a free classroom demonstra~
tion at my convenience.

Name- ..... Title

 

 

Course taught

 

 

l
l
l
l
l
I
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
|
l
l
|
l
I
l
L

 

 




SSC

Announcing Special Offerings

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
   

To help introduce ESSCO biologicals
to new accounts, we are offering spe-
cially low prices on materials in regu-
lar classroom use. These items will
always be our ﬁnest quality, and
carry our guarantee to be ideally pre-
pared and preserved, and free of any
fault.

 

For November 69’ December Only

W'Hl'l‘E MICE Two adult males and two adult females, stand- $300
ard laboratonv strain, sleek and healthy

 

AQI’ARII'M PLANTS & ANIMALS—Living balanced assort-
ment for a 10 gallon tank. Includes Elodea, Duckweed, sna1ls, $500
mussels, planai'ia, hydra, daphnia, crayﬁsh, and leeches

MEDIUM (5"-7") Plain preserved $600 per dozen
$100 per dozen

PIG EMBRYOS

 

ASCARlS—l’ig round worms, plain preserved
50 Gal. s'roCK AQUARIUM TANK—Running water, mounted $9500

on stand.

Write for New Complete 1960 Catalog Illustrating

Biological Specimens —— Live & Preserved —— For Your Every Need.

EDISON SCOTT SQUIRE 00., INC.

BOYD, WISCONSIN

 

 

 




Especially selected for the high school
biology student from the famous

$0 mes M16

COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES

BioIo Each COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES volume is carefully
9y prepared and checked by. specialists in the subject

 

 

by Gordon Alexander. A summary 0f general prln- ﬁeld. Accurate, concise, comprehensive, they are

 

 

ciples. Illustrated. 7th ed. 253 pages. $150 particularly helpful to advanced high school students

who want the best possible preparation for their

ZOOIOQY college courses and entrance exams are ideal for

by Gordon Alexander. A summary of biological prin- review, lead bright students on to independent study

ciples with a survey of the animal kingdom. Illus- by referring them to authoritative sources tor addl-
trated. 4th ed. 290 pages. $1.75 tional information.

EXAMINATION COPIES of the above books are available free for teachers. Write to us on your school letterhead.

.i M16 105 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 3, N. Y. Educational Specialists since 1873

Publishers of COLLEGE ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS and COLLEGE ENTRANCE COUNSELOR,
the most reliable and comprehensive source of information on American colleges now available.

 

 

USEFUL OPTICAL BARGAINS

LARGE-SIZE OPAQUE PROJECTOR

Ideal for enlarging and proiecting
drawingsI photosl formulas. etc.. for
classroom study. Low-cost unit takes
any opaque copy up to 6" x 6”—pro-
iects image 3l/2 feet square at 6 feet.
7% feet square at l2 feet—in true

 

Offspring of Science . . . REALLY BEAUTIFUL!
CIRCULAR DIFFRACTION-GRATING JEWELRY
A Dazzling Rainbow of Color!

This new kind of iewelry is capturing atten-
tion everywhere. Shimmering rainbows ot gem-
llke color in iewelry Of exquisite beauty——
made with CIRCULAR DlFFRACTlON-GRAT—
ING REPLICA. Just as a prism breaks up light
into its full range Of individual colors, so

   

 

 

 

co or. exact proportions. Broadens use of visual aids. 5+ kN 30 349dX)?SE lh? dlﬁradlon grallng' $2 75 ppd

- - ~ I! . Ir OC 0. . - arrln s ....................... . -
I'lcreas‘if CIGSS ”me“- Pr°|e°*°' '5 "'[2 h'ghv '3,'/4 Stock No. 30.350-AX Cuff Lignks ...................... $2.75 ppd.
Wlde. 9 {POM *0 566k. pressed steel In black wrinkle Stock No. 30.372-AX Pendant ........................ $2.75 ppd-
finish. bakeIH'e handle. Lenses are 2 plano-convexl 3V4” S‘I‘OCk NO. 30.390-AX Tle Clasp ....................... $2.75 ppd.

 

diameter. mounted in 5V4" barrel. Uses two ZOO-watt
bulbs. not included. Complete with slide platform to
hold illustrations. 6-ft. electric cord. heat resist. plate
glass mirror.

Stock No. 80.066-AX. . . .. . . . . . . . . .. .$42.00 Postpaid

ERECT IMAGE LOW POWER
MICROSCOPE —— 5x. on. 20X
$60.00 Value — Only $|9.95

Extremely sturdy with rack and pinion focusing.

 
    

 

working distance under obiectives, sufficient eye

-’ relief for easy viewing. Made from war surplus
NEW! ROTATING MICROSCOPE STAGE

 

 

" """ optical instrument so that you actually 96*

Shows TOP and SIDES of Subiect! $Aéo-00 of vage- Weighs huffi" :3" high. l0'?i5YxF§<i)E< T43)?”
A brand-new development of Edmund. This ccessory o |ectIves avaIa e or powers 0 ' ' .’
Rotatiriirg Microgcopée Stage permits examina- Stock No. 70,I72-AX .......................... $|9.95 PostpaId
tion 0 top an Si es of gems and minerals
without moving subiect or holding by hand. GET OUR BIG FREE CATALOG No. AX
Angled first surface mirror allows this top-and- '44 PAGES! OVER I,000 BARGAINS! .
side inspection. A touch of the ﬁnger revolves We have the world's largest variety of Optical Items. Bar-
cenfer plafform and rot-ates subiect under gaIns galore . . . War Surplus—Imported—Domestlc!
microscope. Flat edge of wheel indicafes com_ Our stock includes Microscopes, Telescopes, Satellite Scopes.
plete revolution. Sfurdy mefal wifh plasﬁc rO- and Spectroscopes, Prisms, Lenses, Recticles. Mirrors and
faﬁng parfs _ size 2» x 2» x 2”- dozens of other hard-to-get Optical items.
Stock No. 50,269-AX ............ $9.95 Postpaid Ask for FREE CATALOG No. AX

    

ORDER BY STOCK NUMBER .SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER . SAHSEACNON GUARANTEED! i

‘ EDMUND SCIENTIFICCO.’ HARRINGTON, N. J.

 

 




 

New—

T urtox Sets for Making

 

Begonia leaf surface replica made with
the Turtox Micro-Replica Kit.

320A905 Micro-Replica Kit for Surface
Details. This simple and easily used kit
permits any teacher or student to pro—
duce in minute detail permanent micro—
casts of surfaces of leaves and stems, of
plants, epidermis of animals, etc. to
Show cells, fibers, hair, etc. in three-di-
mensional relief. The resulting cover-
slip casts, when studied under the
microscope, show details never seen in
ordinary microscope slide preparations.
The technique is simple and rapid.
The finished replicas, which show sur-
face structures with startling relief and
clarity, are fastened (with Scotch tape)
to standard 3x1 inch slides to facilitate
Viewing and integration with the regular
microscope slide collection.

 

Micro-Replicas

 

 

Hundreds of permanent snow ﬂake rep-
licas can be made with the Turtox Snow
Flake Replica Kit.

Set consists of a box of one hundred
plastic micro cover slips, a 4—0unce bottle
of solvent, and a detailed and illustrated
instruction leaﬂet. Kit ___________ $2.00

Dozen kits _____ __ 22.00

320A908 Snow Flake Replica Kit. This
interesting kit contains sufﬁcient ma—
terial to make hundreds of permanent
replicas of actual snow ﬂakes. The re-
sulting detail is sufficiently ﬁne for
critical microscope examination.

Kit consists of bottle of solution, glass
applicator, and a leaﬂet of detailed in-
structions. Kit __________________ 2.00
Dozen kits __ 22.00

 

 

The new 944-page Turtox Biology Catalog N o. 62, published onAugust
20, 1960, describes all of the biological science materials authorized for
purchase under Title III of the National Defense Education Act.

GENERAL BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY HOUSE

Incorporated
8200 South Hoyne Avenue, Chicago 20, Illinois

The Sign of the mex Pledges Absolute Satisfaction

U CTS

 

 

 




 

—Welc/z——
SYNTHETIC SKELETONS -Miniature and Full Size

Accurately Scaled in Durable,.Washable, Synthetic Bone

Composition
preferable
to natural
bone
For all General
purposes

Resistant
to Breakage

No. ZK500

ZK500. MINIATURE SKELETON,
Painted. The muscular origins are
painted in blue, and the muscular in—
sertions are in red on one side of the
skeleton. Complete with wooden case,
plastic skeleton cover, and illustrated
key card.
Each $137.00

 

No. ZK402
ZK402. SKELETON, Human Model, WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG OF

Adult, Painted. The muscular origins are

painted in red and the muscular inser- CHARTS) MODELS AND MANY

tions in blue. The various muscles are

marked and labeled on one side. The OTHER ITEMS FOR THE BIOLOGY

skeleton is complete, with stand, plastic

cover and illustrated key card. LABORATORY°
Each $305.00

W. M. Wech Scientific Company

DIVISION OF W. M. WELCH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
ISIS Sedgwick Street, Dept. F Established I880 Chicago l0I IllinoisI U. S. A.
Manufacturers of Scientiﬁc Instruments and Laboratory Apparatus.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




“To help save the World's \Vildlife and WM Places . . .”

DINNER

GIVEN BY THE

WORLD WILDLIFE FUND

TO HONOR

H. R. H. the Prince Philip Duke of Edinburgh

AND TO WELCOME

H. R. H. the Prince of the Netherlands

JUNE 7, 1962
THE WALDORF-ASTORIA

 




 

H. R. H.
the Prince Philip
Dulze oi Edinburgh

 

HONORS US by his presence here this evening as we prepare to
launch the American Campaign of the World Wildlife Fund. Author
of “Sea Birds and Southern Waters,” soon to be published in the,
United States, he speaks to us in his capacity as President of the British
National Appeal of the Fund.

WE ALSO WELCOME H.R.H. Prince Bernhard of the Nether—
lands, President of the International World Wildlife Fund at Zurich.
An ardent sportsman and conservationist, Prince Bernhard, like Prince
Philip, has taken the lead in focusing world attention on the critical

situation confronting the world’s wildlife.

WE ARE GRATEFUL to our two guests of honor for the extra-

ordinary etfort they have made to he with us on this important occasion.

 

“THERE ARE NO WORDS THAT CAN TELL THE HIDDEN
SPIRIT OF THE WILDERNESS, THAT CAN REVEAL ITS
MYSTERY, ITS MELANCHOLY AND ITS CHARM.”

. . . Theodore Roosevelt

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

GUEST LIST

WORLD WILDLIFE FUND DINNER

'1 THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 1962

GRAND BALLROOM - WALDORF ASTORIA

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

 

WORLD WILDLIFE FUND DINNER

 

FRONT DAIS

 

The an. Richard C. Patterson
N.Y.C. Commissioner of Public Events

H. E. Mr. C. W. A. Schurmann
Netherlands Ambassador to the U.N.

Mrs. Ira N. Gabrielson

H. E. Mr. C. S. A. Ritchie
Canadian Ambassador to the U. 8.

Mrs. J. H. O. Paulusz

H. E. Mr. G. R. Laking

Ambassador of New Zealand to the U.S.

Lady Ormsby-Gore

H. E. Mr. W; M. W. HElm
Ambassador of Ghana to the U.S.

Lady Beale
Mr. Harvey Firestone, Jr.
Dr. Ira N. Gabrielson

Mrs. Winston F. C. Guest

H. R. H. Prince Bernhard o? the
Netherlands

Mr. JOhn I- Snyder, J1.

Richard H) Pough

H. R. H. The Prince Philip,
Duke of Edinburgh

Mrs. John I. Snyder, Jr.
Mr. Winston F. C. Guest
Mrs. Harvey Firestone, Jr.

H. E. Sir waard Beale
Ambassador of Australia to the U.S.

Mrs. G. R. Laking

IL E. Mr. JUlius Momo Udochi
Ambassador of Nigeria to the U.S.

H. E. Sir David Ormsby—Gore
British Ambassador to the U.S.

Mrs. C. W..A. Schurmann

The Rt. Rev. Hbrace W. B. Donegan
Protestant Episc0pal.Bish0p of N.Y.

Mr. J. H. O. Paulusz
Charge d'Affaires of Ceylon

Mr. Christopher P. Ngaize
Charge d'Affaires of Tanganyika

Mr. Thomas Hunt
U.S. Department of State

REAR DAIS
William H. Phelps, Jr. My. L. B. Kemball-Cook Mr. Max Nicholson
Roger Tory Peterson Nb. Guy Mountfort Mr. Max McGraw
John M. Olin Mr. Carl W. Buchheister Mr. Fairfield Osborn
Ross Leffler Mr. Philip K. Crowe The an. Russell E. Train
. Edward H; Graham Mr. C. R. Gutermuth Mr. S. Dillon Ripley
. HarOld J. Coolidge Mr. Kermit Roosevelt Mr. Peter Scott

Mr. R. waard webster

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

WORLD WILDLIFE FUND DINNER

GRAND BALLROOM, WALDORF ASTORIA

1}.

Mr. Gordon V. Adams & Guest

Count Basil Adlerberg

Dr. & Mrs. Oshin Agathon

Mr. Constantin Alajalov

HOn. & Mrs. WinthrOp W. Aldrich

Dr. Dean Amadon

American Can Company

American Committee for Inter-
national Wildlife Protection

American International
Underwriters Corp.

American Museum of
Natural History

C01. and Mrs. Gordon Andrews

Mr. George Armstrong

Col. Paul Armus

Mr. John Atoniadis

Mr. & Mrs. Ju1es Aubry

13.

Miss Gai1.Bagley

Mrs. George F. Baker

Mr. John Baker

Mr. Delevan Baldwin

Mr. 86 Mrs. James F. T‘aldwin

Bank of Montreal,.Agency

Mr. & Mrs. Winston E. Banko

Mr. William.Nathaniel Banks
& Guests

Mr. Eugenio Barayarza

Mr. Arthur M. Bartley

Mr. Charles Baskerville

Mrs. Eve Bates

Mr. Howard Bell

Mr. F. Gregg Bemis

Miss Judith Benham

Mr. Irving Benjamin

Mr. & Mrs. Harold S. Berry

Mr. Reeve K. Biggers

Mr. Francois E. Blane

Mr. .3. H Bleckwell

Mr. &;Mrs. Francis In Blewer
& Guests .

Mr. & Mrs. William A. Boeger, Jr.

Mr. Beverley A. Bogert

SEATING LIST

JUNE 7, 1962
TABLE NO. TABLE NO.
"‘“” ””“’ 7
B (cont'd.) 7
75 .Miss Alouise Boker 66 l
15 Mrs. Glenn Winnett Boocock 66 7
86 Mr. 8. Mrs. G. H. Bostwick 7 Y
29 Mr. 8. Mrs. B. Rionda Braga 26 ‘
1A Ambassador & Senora Sanz Briz 33
8H Mr. & Mrs. James Bruce 2
22 Mrs. Buchheister 28
Mr. Charles Burden 29
83 Mr. & Mrs. James A. Burden bu
Mrs. Arthur Butler & Guests 6h
77
C
8h "
19 Commander Cabral 86
29 Mr. A. Denys Cadman & Guests 16
Box 227 Mr. & Mrs. Charles H. Callison 88
10 Calvert vavasseur & Co., Inc. 77
Box 218 NM. &.Mrs. D. Carter A1
Mr. James H. Case Box 228
Mr. Ralph Case 90
Mr. James Cassell 17
94 Catskill Game Farm Inc. 63
23 Mr. &;Mrs. Daniel Caulkins 2h
37 Deputy Mayor & Mrs. Cavanaugh Box 227
7 MW. &:Mrs. Thomas G. Chamberlain 71
36 Dr. 8. Mrs. James P. Chapin 66
5 Mr. & Mrs. C. T. Chenery 75
17 Mr. &:Mrs. George Cheston Box 217
Mr. Francesco Chiarini M3
8 Mr. Hugh Chisholm, Jr. 27
23 Mr. 8c Mrs. Walker L. Cisler Box 221
85 Mr. & Mrs. F. Ambrose Clark
2A & Guests , 7
55 Mrs. H; Benjamin Clark &.Guests 70
27 'Mrs. Jean Sinclair Clark A3
70 Mr. 8. Mrs. John C. Clark 26
56 Mr. &.Mrs. ChristOpher Clarkson 2
88 Mr. & Mrs. Harris Clay 69
66 Mr. & Mrs. Henrv E. Coe, III 85
78 Mrs. Carlton Cole 5
9h Mr. R. H. Coleman 12
12 Colgate Palmolive Company Box 208
Mr. John E. Connelly, Jr. 39
BOX 220 Mrs. Jay COOgan Box 215
A7 Miss Belle Coolidge A
15 Mrs. Harold J. Coolidge 29

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

(SEATING LIST - Continued)

9 (cont'd.)

Mr. & Mrs. Nicholas Coolidge
Mr. Thomas R. Coolidge

Miss Jo C0peland

Mrs. J. Cheever Cowdin & Guest
Mr. Mervyn Cowie

Mr. Lee S. Crandall

Mrs. Elizabeth R. Creelman

Mr. J. T. Cremer
Mrs. Philip Crows
Mr. JOhn Culman
Mrs. Otto Culman
Mr. JOhn Curtis

P.

Mr. F. J. Daly & Guests
Mr. & Mrs. W. Y. Daly
- Mr. Ralph A. Daniell

Mr. Emmet Davis

Dr. JOhn Stage Davis
Mr. & Mrs. Rodman de Heeren
Mrs. M. de Kuyper
Mr. Jean Delacour
Mr. &.Mrs. Frank Delano
Mrs. Avery de LaSalle
Count Vega del Ren
Mr. Matt De More & Guest
Mr. Leon Dennen
Dr. Baron Stefan de Schill
Detroit Edison Co.
M1. Joseph F. X. Dever
Mr. T. de Latzdorf
Mr. & Mrs. Charles Dewey
Mr. Peter G. Diamandis
Mr. J. E. Dickey
Donna Maita Di Niscemi
Mrs. W. Palmer Dixon & Guest
Miss EStelle Dodge
JUdge Mary H. Donlon
Hon. & Mrs. Lewis Douglas
Mr. & Mrs. Robert E. Doyle
Mr. & Mrs. Vincent Draddy
Mr. & Mrs. Francis Drake
Mrs. John R. Drexel III
Miss Pamela Drexel
Ducks Unlimited
Mr. 8o Mrs. Paul M. Dunn
Mr. C. J. Dunphy
Mr. Lawrence Durkin
1r &IMrs..A. H. Dutton

TABLE NO.

A

Box 222
31
Box 217
83
79
8h
28

68

57
Box 221
31
1+7
23
5
15
3h
85
Box 221
23
85
16

13.3.

Mr. 8:. Mrs. Charles Edison
Mr. Dean S. Edmonds

Mr. 8c Mrs. J. Eerdmans

Mr. &Mrs. A. M. Ehret, Jr.
Mr. Eugene Eisenmann

Mr. & Mrs. James Elliman

Mr. Byron K. Elliott &;Guest
Nun &:Mrs. R. Ellison

Mr. & Mrs. Robert Curtis Erb
Mr. & Mrs. Henri Esquerre
Miss Gail.Evans

Mr. Harry Evans

The Explorers Club

F.

Mr. & Mrs. William Fahnestock

Mrs. W. S. Farish

Mr. H. K. Faulkner

Mr. W. H. Fawcett, Jr. & Guests

Fawcett Publications, Inc.

Federal Paper Board 00., Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. Irving Feist

Mr. Earl N. Felio & Guests

NW8. JOhn Fell

Mrs. Arthur G. Fenske

Mr. Roy K. Ferguson & Guest

Mr. & Mrs. Francisco D.
Fernandez

Mrs. Oliver Filley

Mr. & Mrs. Douglas Findley

Mr. Harvey S. Firestone, Jr.
& Guests

Miss Nancy Fisher

Mr. Peter Follis

Mr. Charles Ford

Mr. E. Forshay &.Guests

Mr. & Mrs. James W. Fosburgh
3. Wilson Perkins Foss

Mrs. Anna Frank

Miss Gladys M; Freeman

Dr. 8: Mrs. Henry Clay Frick

Mr. & Mrs. Jack Frost

9.

Mr. 8: Mrs. G. G. Gabrielson
& Guests

Mr. & Mrs. G. G. Gabrielson, Jr.

Mr. &:Mrs. John Galbreath

PAGE 2

TABLE NO.

2h

16

12

#5

#5

A6

85
Box 208

23

72
Box 205

65
Box 215
69

6

57
5
Box 217

89

23
Box 219

38

80
Box 215

5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

(SEATING LIST - Continued)

5. (cont'd.)

Dr. Serge A. Korff'

Mr. & Mrs. F. H. Kortright
Mr. Edward L. KoZicky

Mr. 8c Mrs. Rush H. Kress
Kuhn, Loeb 8c Co.

E

Miss Denise LaHullier
Mr. 8c Mrs. Thomas Lamont

Mr. 8c Mrs. Harry Lampert & Guests

The Lampert Agency, Inc._
Mrs. William Langley

Mr. & Mrs. Reginald B. Lanier
Mr. S. S. larmon & Guests
Miss Beth Leary

Mr. Onno Leebaert

Mrs. Ross Leffler

Mr. Robert lehman & Guest
Mr. George S. Leisure

Mrs. Lucy Benjamin lemann
Mr. Paul Lepercg

Mr. H. J. O. Letcher

Mrs. Ida Leventhall

Miss Beatrice Lillie

Mr. Alexander Lincoln, Jr.
Miss Bonnie Jean Lindemann
Miss Kathie Lindemann

Mr. & Mrs. Roland Lindemann
Mr. & Mrs. Ashwin Lippe
Mrs. Eda Lisi

Mr. Royal Little

Mr. & Mrs. M. G. Littlehale
Mr. 8 Mrs. Robert L. Lloyd
Mr. & Mrs. Joshua Legan

Mr. Clinton S. Lutkins

Mrs. Edward lyons

M.
Mrs. Ian MacDonald & Guest
Dr. & Mrs. Locke l“ MacKenzie
Mr. Ian MacPhail
Mr. 8c Mrs. R. D. C. McAlpine
Mr. & Mrs. Charles MCCarthy
Mr. E. S. McCawley_. Jr.
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick & Guest
Mrs. Max McGraw
The Hen. Louis D. McGregor
Mr. Gene McIntyre
Mrs. Rdburt MbKay
Miss Marie Maude MCKem

TABLE NO.

86

77
80

Box 205

35

37
9O

16
52

7'2
29
28
57
80
3h

PAGE A

TABLE NO.
M_(cont'd.)
Mr. Malcolm McLean 85
Mr. 8. Mrs. G. P. MacNichol, Jr. 65
Mr. E. A. G. Manton & Guest 77
Countess Mara 71
Mr. Charles Marburg 81
- Miss Caroline C. Marks 81
Mrs. Graham.Mattison 33
Miss Elsa Maxwell & Guests #3
Mr. A. Wilfred May Box 222
Mr. Guy E. Meek 37
Mr. & Mrs. Samuel W. Meek Box 218
Miss Sanky Mehlman 57
Mr. Frederick A. Melhalo 3h
Mr. & Mrs. Ward Melville 58
Ambassador Roberto Mendoza Box 21
Mr. 8. Mrs. John Merck Box 216
Mr. Clement E. Merowit- 79
Mr. R. E. Metz 8h
Mr. & Mrs. thn K. Meyerer 18
Mrs. Sherman Miles A
Mr. & Mrs. Roswell Miller Box 221
Miss Shirley Miller 88
,Madame Pierre Millet #3
Mr. J. D. Mitchell 12
Mr. 8. Mrs. Edmund C. Monell 36
Mr. & Mrs. Andrew Md Mbntgomery 59
NM. &:Mrs. Robert Montgomery bu
NE. Richard Montmorency 67
Mr. &:Mrs. Campbell Mbodie 59
Miss Aurora Moore 27
Mrs. Paul.M00re 37
Mr. &:Mrs. Arnold P. Moran 18
Mr. Allen H. Mergan 28
The Rev. & Mrs. Grant Morhill 68
Mr. Richard G. Mbser & Guests #8
Mrs. Guy Mbuntfort 10
Mr. Carl L. Muller 82
Mr. Orson D. Munn, Jr. 85
Dr. 8c Mrs. Robert Cushman Murphy 58
Mrs. D. Bruce Murray &
Mr. Bruce Murray, Jr. 88
1_\I_
National Audubon Society 88
National Geographic Society #7
Mrs. Joseph A. Neff &;Guests A
Mr. Peter Netland 79
Dr. M. Graham.Netting & Guests Box 213
Miss Margaret L. Newton 90
Mr. &.Mrs. Maurice Newton 15
New York Zoological Society 89
Mr. Janson Reyes & Guests 30

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

(SEATING LIST —. Continued)

E5.

Mr. Frank Saunders & Guests
Mrs. Frances Sawyer
Mr. Richard Scaife
Dr. T. Werner Schaurte
Mr. & Mrs. Herbert Scheftel
Miss Sophia Schnitzer
Mr. & Mrs. M. Lincoln Schuster
Schweppes (U.S.A.) Limited
Mr. Harry Selesky
Mr. & Mrs. George Sharp
Mr. & Mrs. Edwin F. Shelley
Mr. Amos Shepard
Miss Eugenia Sheppard
Mr. & Mrs. Thorns Sherwood
Mr. Paul Shields
Mr. & Mrs. J. Shoemer
Mr. & Mrs. S. Siegel
Mr. W. S. Simkins
Dr. Constantine Slavrado
Consul General Slingenberg
Mr. & Mrs. Charles B. Smith
Mr. C. R. Smith
Mr. Edward C. Smith
Miss Elizabeth Smith
Mr. & Mrs. James Snowden
Miss Annette Snyder
Mr. echn I. Snyder, Guests of
Mr. & Mrs. Patrick Spooner
Mr. Meyer Stein & Guest
Mr. & Mrs. Robert D. Sterling
Mas. Alfred R. Sterr & Guest
Mr. & Mrs. ROger Stevens
Miss Margaret Sueward
Mr. & Mrs. Albert Stickney, Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Rudy C. Stiefel
Mr. William C. Stolk & Guests
Dr. & Mrs. Charles Stoloff
Ambassador Thomas A. Stone
Mr. & Mrs. Whitney Stone
Mr. W. G. Stone
Mr. Searight Stuart
Mr. JOhn Stubenbord, M.D..
Mr. Edward Sullivan
Ambassador.A. Burks Summers
Mr. Edwin S. S. Sunderland

& Guests
Mr. JOhn Sutton
Mrs. Frederick D. Suydam
Mrs. JOhn Swallow

TABLE NO.

21

80
Box 217

ll

31+
Box 221
Box 221

67

9O
82
22
86
10

59
Box 207

57
86

82
BOX 207

Box 229

33
82

55

.T.

Mr. W. E. Talley

Miss Marlise Tamberg

Mr. 8c Mrs. H. Stillman Taylor
Miss Lesley Taylor

Mrs. Lawrence C. Thaw

Mr. 8c Mrs. Joseph A. Thomas
Mrs. Elberta Thompson

Mr. Jeseph H. Thompson & Guest
Mr. & Mrs. Richard Tift
Colonel Ilia A. Tolstoy

Mrs. Russell Train

Mrs. Carll Tucker

Mrs. Carll Tucker, Jr.

Miss Toinette Tucker

Miss Alice Tully 8.: Guest

Mr. Huntington M. Turner

9.
Mr. Lewis Ufland
Mr. Urrutia

E.

Mrs. Murray vanderbilt

Dr. Richard van Gelder

Mr. Charles van Rensselaer

Mr. & Mrs. Alexander Vietor

Mrs. Ernest G. Vietor

Consul General & Madame Basile
Vitsaxis

Mr. Peter V. D. VOOrhees

Mr. & Mrs. Frederick Vosburgh

Madame Vu van Thai

W,
Mr. & Mrs. T. S. walkowicz
Mr. M. R. warden
Mr. George Earle warren
Mr. George watson, III
Mr. & Mrs. N. M. L. Watson
webb & Knapp, Inc.
Mr. & Mrs. Charles webster
NW. &;Mrs. Martin weiser
Mr. & Mrs. John R. Weist

PAGE 6

TABLE NO.

Commander &.Mrs. Edward Whitehead 67

Mr. & Mrs. Sheldon Whitehouse
Mrs. Harold Whitmore

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

(SEATING LIST - Continued)

W_(cont'd.)

Mr. 86 Mrs. C. V. Whitney
Dr. W. L. Whittemore

NW. Alan.M. Williams

Mrs. Andrew Murray Williams
Mr. Robert Willison

Mr. & Mrs. waiter F. Wilmas
Mr. Frederick Winship

Mr. Beekman Winthrop

Mr. JChn WinthrOp

Mr. Nathaniel T. WinthroP
Mr. & Mrs. Robert WinthrOp
Mr. Walter A. Wood

Mrs. Harry A. Woodruf

Mr. & Mrs. Harper WOodward

Mrs. S. J. Aginska

Mr. & Mrs. Robert B. Fiske
Mr. Colin Fletcher

Miss Marion M. Preminger
Mr. John B. Trevor, Jr.

TABLE NO.

W_(cont'd.)

Mr. Ben S. wright
Mr. 8c Mrs. Robert S. Wright

2!.
Col . Young
Young &.Rubicam, Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. Cole Younger

.2.

-Mr. &:Mrs. Rudolph Zallinger

mr. & Mrs. Rdbert R. Zemon
Mr. & Mrs. Ed Zern

SUPPLEMENTAL LIST

 

Miss Elizabeth Trotter

Baroness westall van
Langendorff

Mr. Thomas Verthimer

Mr. & Mrs. T. Reed vreeland

PAGE 7

TABLE NO.

Box 227

53
5h

90
28

Box 228

32

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

WORLD WILDLIFE FUND

Mr. Gordon V. Adams

Count Basil Adlerherg

Mr. Russell Barnett Aitken

Mr. Constantin Alajalov

Mr. and Mrs. Winthrop Aldrich
Mr. George S. Armstrong

Mrs. George F. Baker

Mr. George F. Baker, Jr.

Mr. William Nathaniel Banks
Mr. Bernard M. Baruch

Mr. Howard Bell

Mr. F. Gregg Bemis

Mr. and Mrs. Harold S. Berry
Mr. and Mrs. Francis L. Blewer
Mr. Beverley A. Bogert

Miss Alouise Boker

Mrs. G. W. Boocock

Mr. and Mrs. B. Rionda Braga
Mr. James Bruce

Mrs. Mellon Bruce

Mr. James A. Burden

Mr. and Mrs. D. H. Burrell, Jr.
Mr. Charles E. Burden

Mrs. Arthur Butler

Mr. and Mrs. Dan P. Caulkins
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Chamberlain
Mr. and Mrs. C. T. Chenery
Mr. Hugh J. Chisholm, Jr.

Mrs. F. Ambrose Clark

Mr. and Mrs. John Clark

Mrs. H. Benjamin Clark

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher Clarkson
Mr. and Mrs. Harris Clay

Mrs. T. Jefferson Coolidge

Mrs. J. Cheever Cowdin

Miss Doris 1. Crane

Mr. and Mrs. W. Y. Daly

Mr. and Mrs. Rodman de Heeren
Mrs. M. de Kuyper

Mr. and Mrs. Frank E. Delano
Mr. Matt de More

Dr. Baron Stefan de Schill
Mrs. W. Palmer Dixon

lVlr. M. Hartley Dodge

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Douglas
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Draddy
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Drexel, lll
Mr. Paul M. Dunn

Mr. C. J. Dunphy

Mr. W. E. Dyche, Jr.

Mr. and lVlrs. Charles Edison
Mr. Byron K. Elliott

DINNER SPONSORS

Mrs. Lincoln Ellsworth

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Engelhard
Mr. Harry Evans

Mr. Marshall Field, Jr.

Mr. Earl N. Felio

Mr. Rohert M. Ferguson

Mr. Roy K. Ferguson

Mr. and Mrs. Francisco D. Fernandez
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Findlay
Mr. Charles Ford .

The Eleanor Clay FOrd Fund
NH. and Mrs. James Foshurgh
Mrs. Wilson Perkins Foss

Mrs. Gladys M. Freeman _

Dr. and Mrs. Henry Clay Frick
Mr. Floyd D. Frost

Mr. Guy George Gahrielson

Mr. and Mrs. John Galhreath
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. L. Gardiner
Mr. Frank Glahn

Mrs. V. L. Gamhle

Mr. Rohert L. Gerry, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John L. R. Glover
Mr. Arthur Gordon

Mrs. Elizabeth N. Graham

Mrs. Henry G. Gray

Mr. Crawford H. Greenewalt
Mr. and Mrs. K. G. Griffin

Mr. H. M. Grindell

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd P. Griscom
Mr. and Mrs. Walter S. Guhelmann
Mr. Carl 0. Gustalson

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Hanes
Mr. Henry Harnischleger

Mr. E. Roland Harriman

Miss Eleanor Harris

Mr. Huntington Hartford

Mrs. Ira Haupt

Mr. Andrew M. Hay

Mr. George Headley

Mr. and Mrs. Van Campen Heilner
Mrs. T. Charlton Henry

Miss Janet L. Hesse

Mrs. Charles H. Higgins
General and Mrs. John Hilldring
Mrs. Thomas Hitchcock

Mr. Duncan M. Hodgson

Mr. Howard J. Hook, Jr.

Mr. Dirk N. Hooykaas

Mr. Oscar R. Houston

Mr. Howell Howard

Mrs. Brooks Howe

 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hughes
Mrs. R. A. Hummel

Mrs. Edward Hutton

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Inglis
Mrs. FrankL. Jones

Mr. Robert A. Jacohs

Senator and Mrs. Jacolo K. Javits
Mr. Allston Jenkins

Mr. and Mrs. B. Brewster Jennings

‘ Mr. and 'MI‘S. SCWBI‘Cl Johnson

Mr. J. J. Jancker

Mr. WalterN. Karpuk

Mr. and Mrs. RohertJ. Kleherg, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. FrancisL. Kellogg

'Mr. HenryC. Kendall

Mr. Theodore W. Kheel

Mr. F. O. Kielman

Mr. B. R. Kittredge

Mr. Seymour H. Knox

Mr. F. H. Kortright

Mr. Edward L. Kozicky

Mr. and Mrs. Rush H. Kress
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Lamont
Mr. and Mrs. Reginald B. Lanier
Mr._.Oscar T. Lawler

Miss Beth Leary

Mrs. Cazenove Lee

Mr. Rohert Lehman

Mr. George S. Leisure

Mrs. Solene Benjamin Lemann
Mr. H. J. O. Letcher

Miss Beatrice Lillie

Mr. Alexander Lincoln, Jr.

Mr. Roland Lindemann

Mr. and Mrs. Joshua Logan
Mrs. Edward Lyons

Mrs. Cyrus McCormick

Mrs. Robert G. McKay

Mrs. Ian MacDonald

Miss Marie M. McKim
Mr.,and Mrs. G. P. MacNichol, Jr.
Mr. E. A. G. Manton

Mr. Charles Marhurg

Mrs. Graham, D. Mattison
Miss Elsa Maxwell

Mr. A. Wilfred May

Mr. Herhert A. May

Mr. Paul Mazur

Mr. Guy Meek

Mr. Samuel W. Meek

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick A. Melhado
Mr. Paul Mellon

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mr. Richard King MeIIon
Mr. Ward Melville

Mr. Clement E. Merowit

Mr. and Mrs. RosweII MiIIer
Mrs. Paul Moore

Mr. AIIen H. Morgan

Mr. and IVIrs. Joseph A. NefI
Mr. B. P. Newton

Dr. and Mrs. Melvin M. Payne
Dr. M. Graham Netting

Mr. Peter C. NetIand

COI. Serge ObOIensIIy

IVIT. and Mrs. David Ogilvy
Mr. Spencer T. OIin

Mr. and Mrs. WiIIiam PaIey
Miss Linda PaImer

Mrs. Mario Pansa

Mr. and Mrs. T. W. S. PasIey
Brig. General and Mrs. PauI E. Peabody
Mr. PauI G. Pennoyer

Mr. and Mrs. P auI PeraIta—Ramos
Mrs. Lillian Bostwick Phipps
Mr. and Mrs. John Phipps
Mr. Michael Phipps

Mr. Warren Lee Pierson

Mrs. George D. Pratt

Mrs. John T. Pratt

Mr. WiIIiam E. Rae

Mr. Henry A. J. RaIph

Mr. Bayard Read

Mr. and Mrs. Verner Z. Reed

A. Denys Cadman

GULF OIL CORPORATION

John E. ConneIIy, Jr.
OLWINE, CONNELLY, CHASE.

O’DONNELL 8 WEYHER
F. J. DaIy

WEBB AND KNAPP, INC.

J. Eerdmans

JAGUAR CARS, INC.

W. H. Fawcett, Jr.

FAWCETT PUBLICATIONS, INC.
Harvey S. Firestone, Jr.

FIRESTONE TIRE 8' RUBBER CO.
John S. Guest

KUHN, LOEB 8 Co.

Arthur A. Houghton, Jr.

STEUBEN GLASS

DINNER SPONSORS, continued
Mr. and Mrs. ROIand Redmond

IVIrs. James Reeves

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Rich

Mr. and Mrs. T. Markoe Robertson

Mr. John P. Robin

Mr. and Mrs. J. Robinsonn

Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller

Mrs. Siegfried Roeinng

Mr. N. L. H. RoesIer

Mrs. Edmund P. Rogers

Mr. Henry Romney

Mr. A. B. Roosevelt

Mr. Jack Rosenburg

Mr. PhiIip A. Roth

NIT. Theodore Rousseau

The Spanish Ambassador and
Senora Sanz Briz

Mrs. Frances Sawyer

IVIr. Richard M. ScaiIe

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert ScheIteI
Miss Sophia Schnitzer

Mr. and Mrs. M. LincoIn Schuster
Mr. and Mrs. Thorne Sherwood
Mr. Paul ShieIds

Mrs. Lawrence M. C. Smith
Mr. Meyer Stein

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. SterIing
Nb. and Mrs. Rudy C. StieIeI
Mrs. AIIred R. Stern

Mr. and Mrs. Roger Stevens
Mr. W. G. Stone

Partial List

BUSINESS SPONSORS
John R. Kennedy

FEDERAL PAPER BOARD CO.

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Lampert

THE LAMPERT AGENCY

S. S. Larmon

YOUNG AND RUBICAM, INC.

Richard G. Moser

PATTERSON, BELKNAP 8 WEBB

Jansen Noyes
HEMPHILL, NOYES AND CO.

Robert H. O’Brien

METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER

John M. OIin

OLIN MATHIESON CHEMICAL CORP.

StanIey de J. Osborne

OLIN MATHIESON CHEMICAL CORP.

Mr. Whitney Stone
Mr. Edward E. SuIIivan
Mr. Edwin S. S. SunderIand
Mrs. Frederick D. Suydam
Mr. W. E. Talley
Mr. E. P. Taylor
Mr. and Mrs. H. StiIIman Taonr
Mrs. Lawrence Coper Thaw
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Thomas
Mr. Joseph H. Thompson
The Hon. and Mrs. Richard TiIt
COIoneI IIia A. ToIstoy
Mrs. CarII Tucker
Miss AIice TuIIy
Mr. Huntington M. Turner
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel C. Van CIieI
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred G. Vanderbilt
Mrs. Ernest G. Vietor
Baroness WestaII von Langendorff
Nb. and Mrs. T. Reed VreeIand
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Webster
Mr. R. Howard Webster
Commander and:

Mrs. Edward Whitehead
Mr. and Mrs. SheIdon Whitehouse
Mrs. HaroId P. Whitmore
Mr. and Mrs. C. V. Whitney
Mr. Robert WiIIison
Mr. NathanieI T. Winthrop
Mrs. Harry A. Woodruff
Mr. Ben S. Wright

Harold L. Oram

HAROLD L. ORAM, INC.

IVIr. PeaIe

REPUBLIC AVIATION CORP.

John W. Queenan

HASKINS AND SELLS, INC.

Frank Saunders
RUDER AND FINN, INC.

Mr. John I Snyder, Jr.

U. S. INDUSTRIES

WiIIiam C. StOII<

AMERICAN CAN COMPANY

M. R. Warden

REMINGTON ARMS CO., INC.

Partial List

 




 

 

 

PROGRAM

CHAIRMAN

INVOCATION

NATIONAL ANTHEMS

TOAS TS

GREETINGS

WELCOMIN G

ADDRESS

BENEDICTION

IN TERMISSION

’ FILM

JOHN I SNYDER. JR.

THE RIGHT REVEREND HORACE W. B. DONEGAN.
C.B.E., D.D., D.C.L., Protestant EpiSCOpaI Bishop of New York

ELEANOR STEBER

WINSTON F. C. GUEST

DR. IRA N. GABRIELSON

H.R.H. PRINCE BERNHARD OF THE NETHERLANDS

H.R.H. THE PRINCE PHILIP DUKE OF EDINBURGH

We WiII pause for a five minute intermission for

the convenience of those who must depart early ..

ANIMALS OF AFRICA
Produced by the Tanganyika National Parks

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS IS THE SYMBOL OF THE
WORLD WILDLIFE FUND

A Giant Panda (Ailarpoda melanOIeuca) has been
chosen to symbolize the worIe Of the Fund because
it is one of the best—known and Best—loved rare
animals in the world, and Because it owes it sur-
vival to the sort of careful conservation which all
wild creatures deserve.

WORLD WILDLIFE FUND
709 Wire Building
Washington 5. D. C.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

President

IRA N. GABRIELSON, PRESIDENT
WiIdIiIe Management Institute

Vice President

RUSSELL. E. TRAIN. JUDGE
Tax Court of the United States

Secretary

C. R. GUTERIWUTH. SECRETARY
NO. American WiIdIiIe Foundation

FI'PGSIH'C’T

EDWARD H. GRAHAM.
DIRECTOR OF PLANT TECHNOLOGY
SOiI Conservation Service

CARL W. BUCHHEISTER, PRESIDENT
NationaI Audubon Society

HAROLD J. COOLIDGE, ExEC. DIRECTOR
Pacific Science Board of the
National Academy OI Sciences

PHILIP K. CROWE
Former U. S. Ambassador

WILLIAM O. DOUGLAS. ASSOCIATE JUSTICE
Supreme Court of the United States

ROSS LEFFLER.

Former Assistant Secretary of the Interior

MAX McGRAW, BOARD CHAIRMAN
McGraw-Edison Company

JOHN M. OLIN, BOARD CHAIRMAN
OIin MatIIieson CIIemicaI Corp.

FAIRFIELD OSBORN. PRESIDENT
N. Y. ZooIogicaI Society

WILLIAM H. PHELPS, Jr.. CHAIRMAN
InternationaI CounCiI for Bird Preservation
( (Pan American Section)

{OGER TORY PETERSON.
OmitIloIogist-Artist-Author

RICHARD H. ROUGH. PRESIDENT
Association for Protection of the Adirondacks

KERMIT ROOSEVELT, VICE PRESIDENT
GuII OiI Corporation

S. DILLON RIPLEY, PRESIDENT

International CounciI for Bird Preservation

Affiliations Noted for Identification Purposes Only

WORLD WILDLIFE FUND

DINNER COMMITTEE

Honorary Chairman

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

Chairman

JOHN I SNYDER, JR.
President and Board Chairman
U.S. Industries, Inc.

Co-Chairmen
MR. AND MRS. WINSTON F. C. GUEST

COMMITTEE

MR. AND MRS. WINTHROP ALDRICH
MRS. GEORGE F. BAKER
MR. AND MRS. NICHOLAS DUKE BIDDLE
MR. AND MRS. F. AMBROSE CLARK
DR. AND MRS. RICHARD DERBY
MR. AND MRS. LEWIS DOUGLAS
MR. AND MRS. HENRY F. du FONT
MR. AND MRS. CHARLES W. ENGELHARD
MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST, Jr.
MR. AND MRS. ARTHUR HOUGHTON
SENATOR AND MRS. JACOB JAVITS
MISS ELSA MAXWELL
MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM S. PALEY
MR. AND MRS. ROLAND REDMOND
MR. AND MRS. T. MARKOE ROBERTSON
MRS. SIEGFRIED ROEBLING
MR. AND MRS. EARL E. T. SMITH
MR. AND MRS. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE
MR. AND MRS. CORNELIUS VANDERBILT WHITNEY
MR. AND MRS. GEORGE WIDENER

The Charles Heidseick 1955 British Cuvee Champagne served this evening was gener-
ously donated by Mr. Charles HeidseicIe.

The Dinner Committee is most grateful to Miss Elizabeth Arden for her thoughtful
donation of table decorations.

The Brown and Williamson Tobacco Corporation have been hind enough to provide
their Viceroy Cigarettes.

The DOORS on wildlife presented to Prince Philip and Prince Bernhard have been donated
by the Golden Press and the American Committee for International Wildlife Protection.

The drawings for this program are the work of the noted British artist and naturalist.
Mr. Peter Scott.

 




 

 

 

 

E4-V2

 




There are people whom the Creator has endowed
with the supreme gift of joy—not the joy commonly
associated with pleasure but, paradoxically, the
sort that seems to thrive in the silent turmoil of sac-
riﬁce and anguish.

In order for such personalities to feel this kind of
joy, the Creator endows them with distinctive
gifts: keen intelligence, spiritual uplift, nobility
and purity of ideals—also—a unique power to dis-
cern and identify great causes and to develop the
passion and fortitude to devote their lives to one or
many of them.

This is the kind of man to whom we pay homage of
admiration on his 90th birthday: Albert Schweitzer.
The ideals closest to his heart and mind have been
the mitigation of human .suﬂering wherever its
victims have been reduced to almost complete help—
lessness; to enlighten by word and example the
ways into the mystic abode of the Divine; to deeply
care and to constantly work for human fraternity.
His has been the gift to interpret the message of
Johann Sebastian Bach, to feel its true greatness—
and to enlighten the understanding in order that
more people might enjoy this supreme kindness
and beauty in music.

I am grateful for the privilege of knowing with
reverence this brother, whose noble and peerless
friendship has enriched my life. I am ﬁlled with
heart-felt happiness by the tribute rendered to
him by the Esterhazy Orchestra—an event that
honors all those who share in this most deserving
homage.

Pablo Casals

 

 

 

 

David Blum

Music Director

presents

.A
Tribute
to

Albert
Schweitzer

on the occasion of his 90th birthday
Thursday evening, January 14, 1965 at Town Hall
Proceeds for the Lambarene Hospital

Soloist:
John Ogdon

Pianist

Pro gram

Bach—Mozart : Largo from Organ Sonata no. 2
Bach: Suite no. 1 in C major
Bach: Piano Concerto in D minor

Haydn: Symphony no. 49 in F minor,“La Passione”

Presentation: on behalf of the
E sterhazy Orchestra Foundation,
Madame Serge Koussevitzky will make the
presentation to the Albert'Schweitzer Fellowship.
Bach: “Liebster J esu, wir sind hier”

Albert Schweitzer is one of the few who have de-
voted their lives to the service of man. The range of
his achievements and the importance of his per-
sonal example mark him as a leader of our time who
will be remembered. Dr. Schweitzer’s warnings
about the dangers of nuclear preparations and the
readiness to engage in wars of annihilation are a
great service. It is a pleasure to greet this noble
young man on the occasion of his ninetieth birthday.

Menace—

L-ord Bertrand Russell

I gladly associate myself with the felicitations and
good wishes that are being offered to Dr. Albert
Schweitzer on the occasion of his 90th birthday.
Service of mankind, to which he has dedicated his
life, and all that he has accomplished by his selfless
and sustained eﬂbrts in that direction as also for
peace, has not only won our admiration but also the
gratitude of millions of people all over the world.
The best tribute that we can pay to him is to work
ceaselessly to bring back to this power—dominated
world, which lives in the shadow of nuclear weap—
ons, the spirit of humanism.

can/W...—

Lal Bahadur Shastri

Prime Minister of India

I am honored and pleased to express my warmest
congratulations to Dr. Schweitzer on this special
milestone of his extraordinary career. We deeply
revere his magniﬁcent example to humanity. His
lifelong devotion to the welfare of others has been
a beacon of inspiration which shines throughout
the world and warms us all.

42W.

Earl Warren
Chief Justice, United States Supreme Court

 




 

“I still remain convinced that truth, love,
peaceableness, meehness, and kindness are the
violence which can master all other violence”

“Whatever you have received more than others in
health, in talents, in ability, in success, in a
pleasant childhood, in harmonious conditions of
home life, all this you must not take to
yourself as a matter of course. You must pay a
price for it. You must render in return an
unusually great sacriﬁce o f your life for other life. ”

Albert Schweitzer

Please convey my warmest greetings to
Dr. Albert Schweitzer on the occasion of his
ninetieth birthday at the special
Town Hall Program honoring him.

The world honors Dr. Schweitzer in many roles:
Biblical scholar, philosopher, musician
—but not least as humanitarian. His example
has been a leaven to men and nations
around the world. I am pleased to
acknowledge my personal debt of inspiration
to his spirit of service—to his dedication
to “reverence for life.”

Hubert H. Humphrey

Vice President of the United States




_l M._ n. ,..._,.,....,_...____/.K ‘

Ticket Information
Orchestra (centers) $3.5 0

Orchestra (sides) 2.75
Balcony A-H 2.75
Balcony J —M 2.00

Loges (per seat) 4.00

On sale at Judson Hall Boa.- Ofﬁce
available at Town Hall Boa"- Oﬂice after January 1

Mail Orders:

Please make checks payable to the
Esterhazy Orchestra Foundation Inc.
Mail to Judson Hall Boa: Oﬂ‘lce,

165 West 57 Street, New York, N. Y. 10019.
Enclose self-addressed stamped envelope.

Contributions for Albert Schweitzer

In honor of the .90th birthday of
Dr. Albert Schweitzer,
the proceeds of the Jan. 14th concert are being
donated to the Schweitzer Hospital in Gabon,
West Africa. May we ask that you join us in
support of this institution to which Dr. Schweitzer
has devoted his life.

Your check should be made payable to the
Albert Schweitzer Fellowship, Inc. and mailed to
Judson Hall together with your ticket order check.

Please make a separate check covering
your donation.

Contributions beyond the cost of tickets are
tad deductible and will be
gratefully acknowledged by the
Albert Sch weitzer Fellowship.

Columbia Artists Management Inc.

Personal Direction: J udd, Ries & Dahlgren
165 West 57th Street, New York, N. Y. 10019
Vanguard Records

 




ALL
HONOURABLE
MEN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by

 

 

M. BEDDOW BAYLY,

M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

 

 

 

 

PRICE 2d

Pubﬁshed by
The Scottish Society for Prevention of Vivisection,
IO Queensferry Street,
Edinburgh, 2.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Now what does this comparatively new American
organization stand for? In its Information Report,

Vol. III, No. 2 (March—April, 1954) the opening para- ,

graph informs us: “ The Animal Welfare Institute has
followed with interest the work of two British Organiza-
tions, the Laboratory Animals Bureau and the Animal
Technicians Association. Closely allied, but quite
different in organizational set-up. both have proved
their worth to scientists and experimental animals.”
Note the subtlety of the implication. As readers are
well aware, the Director of the former body is Dr. W.
Lane-Fetter. one-time Inspector for the Home Ofﬁce
under the Cruelty to Animals Act (1876). and a holder
of a licence to perform experiments on animals under
that Act in 1950. He is at the present time indefatigable
in his appeals for the handing over of stray cats and
dogs to the research institutes.

Fortunately for these animals in this country, the
R.S.P.C.A. has boldly announced that, so far as its
own shelters are concerned. it will have nothing to do
With the proposal and it is unlikely that any other
socreties over here whose purpose is the protection and
welfare of animals would in their present mood
succumb to the specious arguments of the advocates of
experiments on animals. It would appear that the
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals has given a similar assurance, but several
secreties in USA. whose avowed object is the protec-
tion of animals, such as the S.P.C.A. in New York
City, in Delaware, and also in British Columbia. have
come to an agreement whereby dogs are turned over
from. the public pounds to scientiﬁc laboratories on
certain conditions.

Of course, in those cities where the Hatch-Metcalf
Act has been adopted the animals in the public pounds
can 1n any case be claimed by the scientiﬁc authorities
for laboratory use; but it is still true that in some others
the socreties for the prevention of cruelty to animals
have voluntarily agreed, under certain conditions, to
the handing over of a speciﬁed number of unclaimed

2

 

 

dogs each month, attempting to justify their action by
the argument that, in return, they will be permitted to
inspect the laboratories and that the dogs will be used
for non-survival experiments only.

The fallacy in this argument should be obvious; let
us suppose that the laboratory concerned already uses
100 dogs per month and that 50 of these undergo non-
survival experiments while the other 50 undergo
experiments in which they are allowed to recover from
the anaesthetic and are then kept for varying periods
under observatiOn and treatment. The turning Over of
50 dogs from the public shelters will not reduce the
amount of suffering, but increase it, for the 50 dogs
which would have been used in non-survival experi-
ments will now join the 50 in the survival group; thus
there will now be 100 dogs available in the latter group
instead of the original 50. It has never been explained
how this procedure beneﬁts animals or advances our
cause. The other argument that, by being able to
send inspectors to witness the experiments, “unneces—
sary ” suffering could be checked, will surely deceive
no one. Any pain and suffering which the experimenter
declares to be incidental to the conduct of the experi~
ment is “necessary,” however severe or prolonged it
may be. It is this pain and suffering which we wish
to see totally abolished. The avoidable discomforts of
the animal houses are a side-issue and however desirable
and praiseworthy it may be to attempt to eliminate
them, we should never be tempted to lose sight of our
main objective and thus get side-tracked into an
untenable position.

While, therefore, one readily admits that the Animal
Welfare Institute has an ostensibly laudable aim in their
wish to improve the housing and general welfare of
animals subsequently to be subjected to experiments,
it is impossible to regard them as helping to diminish
the pain and suffering which are inseparable from the
practice of vivisection. Indeed, in so far as they support
all possible measures to increase the supply of animals
for the laboratories, they are working in direct opposi-

3

 

 




tron to those who oppose experiments on animals as a
matter of principle.

it is astonishing to learn how ditferent is the attitude
of research workers in America towards their animal
victims and those who look after them compared to
what we have usually understood to be the attitude
in this country. T he information Report already
quoted tells us that “in many laboratories a stigma
is attached to animal care,” and that. “having heard
the head or a world~famous institution dismiss both.
animals and their caretakers as ‘dirty’ . . . it is only
possible to conclude that brilliance in one branch of
science is no guarantee of scientiﬁc open—mindedness
even in closely related fields.” How true that conclusion
is; though, if an anti-vivisectionist had said it, he
would undoubtedly have been accused of bias. -

in consequence. of this attitude, we are told, “the
welfare of the animals involved is thus entirelv over-
looked. Recognising this, an American biologist rue—
fully remarked, after a- tour of a crowded dog room
in his institution: What we need is people to take care
of the animals, not just take care of the cages! It would be
interesting to compare the statistics on mortality of
experimental dogs following major operations in the
United States, where these animals are often used and
maintained on a mass production basis, with similar
statistics in British laboratories where it is usual for
each dog to receive individual attention.”

it seems a logical deduction from this that American
seience inherited the attitude of. the early vivisectors in
France. As early as 1855, the notorious Claude
Bernard wrote: “ It has always been impossible for us
to carry on survival experiments or studies in experi-
mental pathology at the laboratory of the College de
France because the animals had to be kept under such
bad hygienic conditions that the phenomena we hoped
to observe DEVEI‘ developed, or indeed it happened that
the animals died of secondary diseases and not of the
lesrons whose effects we wished to study.” Perhaps the
survrval of such primitive methods, after an interval of

4

no less than 50 years, may account for some of the
discrepancies and contradictions which appear so fre-
quently in the recorded results of American research.
However that may be, the Report proceeds to stress
the desirability of having a qualiﬁed veterinarian on the

laboratory premises, always recognising, however, that

the value of his presence is strictly limited to his know-
ledge and skill. It is somewhat astounding to read what
happened when Representatives of the Institute visited
the animal quarters of a large institution in. the company
of one of its ofﬁcials and the stall veterinarian. “ When
asked the reason for the extreme emaciation of one of
the experimental animals, the veterinarian replied that
he did not know.”

In consequence of all this, the writer of the Report
is at pains to demand the establishing of the status of
the animal house staff on a level with the laboratory
technicians whose task. is the preparation of animals
for experiment. He is to be given the name of animal
technician, and it is hoped that, just as in this country,
his special needs will be catered for in a journal com-
parable to the Journal of Animal Technicians Asso—
ciation which has been in publication over here for
about four years. It is also contemplated that he will
be subject to stringent examinations similar to those
admitting to Associateship and Fellowship of the
Animal Technicions’ Association (British) which now
has eight branches, boasts a membership running into
hundreds, and conducts training classes.

The Report notes that at the Laboratory Animals
Bureau Congress in Shefﬁeld in 1954, Professor J. O. L.
King, Senior Lecturer in Animal Husbandry at the
University of Liverpool, laid emphasis “ on the fact that
laboratory animals are living individuals and not
machines.” He said: “It is this understanding and
appreciation and the moral character which accom-
panies it which .must form the basis of all ﬁrst-rate
animal care.” These are ﬁne phrases but it is fairly
obvious that they do not bear the same connotation to
the scientist as they do to the layman. For no one

5

 




 

possessing these ethical qualifications would be likely
to engage in an occupation which involves the care of
animals in institutions where they are destined to suffer
the cruelties of vivisection.

Included in the Report is a long eulogistic account of
the career of the late Dr. Robert Gesell, who had been
Chairman of the Department of Physiology at the
Medical School of the University of Michigan since
l923. and a member of the Advisory Council of the
Animal Welfare Institute since its founding in l95l,
until his death in April, 1954. To quote: “ The animal
quarters constructed in accordance with his speciﬁca—
tions soon after he went to the University of Michigan
were designed with the comfort of experimental animals
as a major consideration . . . and his insistence on good
care for them was thoroughly established in his depart—
ment. {The research which he conducted was carefully
planned and humanely designed.” It is interesting to
note that “ Never hesitating to speak out against
cruelty wherever he encountered it, he was always ready
to encourage kindness. One of the honours which he
valued most was his appointment as Hon. Secretary
for the United States of the Universities Federation for
Animal Welfare of Great Britain.”

When we consider his ofﬁcial position and life-work
in relation to experimental research at the University of
Michigan it is the more remarkable to ﬁnd him ruth-
lessly criticising the National Society for Medical
Research. This direct criticism, the Report confesses,
“brought considerable wrath upon his head.” and this
is not to be wondered at when we read the actual word-
ing of his address to the members of the American
Physiological Society at the Annual meeting of the
Federation of American Societies for Experimental
Biology. as reported ' in the Press. The date was
April 15. 1952. and he is reported to have said:

“ Consider what we are doing in the name of Science,

and the issue will be clear.

“We are drowning and suffocating unanzesthetized

animals—win the name of science.

6

“ We are determining the amount of abuse that life
will endure in unanaesthetized animals—win the name
of science.

“ We are producing frustration ulcers in experimental
animals under shocking conditions—in the name of
science.

We are observing animals for weeks, months, or
even years under infamous conditionsmin the name
of science.

“ Yet it is the National Society for Medical Research
and its New York satellite that are providing the
means to these ends. And how is this being
accomplished? By undermining one of the ﬁnest
organizations of our country: The American
Humane Society.

“ With the aid of the halo supplied by the faith of
the American people in medical science, the
N.S.M.R. converts sanctuaries of mercy into animal
pounds at the beck and call of experimental
laboratories regardless of how the animals are to
be used.

“ What a travesty of humanity! This may well prove
to be the blackest spot in the history of medical
science.”

With such an indictment before us it would surely
behove all those who oppose experiments on. animals
as a matter of principle to be wary of their deallngs With
those societies and individuals who combine their
avowed concern for the comfort and well-being of
laboratory animals with an active and determined
endeavour to secure the greatest numbr of animals for
use in the vivisection laboratories.

Finally, it is worth noting that among the four names
of members of the Advisory Committee of the Animal
Welfare Institute is that of David Ricardo, onetime
Secretary of the British Columbia S.P.C.A. It Will be
recalled that it was this society that was one of the
ﬁrst to come to a voluntary agreement with the Medical
Faculty for the handing over of lost and stray dogs
from the City Pound to the scientiﬁc laboratories for

7

 




 

research purposes, at the (then) rate of, about 20 per
month. This was in 19517.

The fact that Mr. Ricardo is also a member of the
Council of the World Federation for the Protection of
Animals indicates the close tie»up that exists between
societies and emphasizes the need for all engaged in
the task of seeking the total abolition of vivisection to
keep an ever watchful and critical eye upon the
activities of those societies whose avowed objects of
animal protectitm and welfare do not include the, to
List vital one of freeing the animals from the pain and
suffering inseparable from experimental research.

Reprinted from Anti—Vivisection News, May, 1955.
8

 

 




Printed by
Murray, Edwards & C0.,
30 Tngate Place, Queensmwn Road,
Battersea, S.W.8.
"l'ele'phone: MACaulay 6500.

 




A New

I _ Urgent ‘Message
To

I Humanitarians

This message is primarily intended for mem-
bers of the American Humane Association
but will be of interest to all humanitarians.

 




To All IVlembers of the American Humane Association

LAST YEAR a great victory for humanitarian principles was

won at the Atlanta Convention of the American Humane
Association. At the best-attended meeting of the Ameri-
can Humane Association in all of its 78 years, an over-
whelming majority of individual members and humane so-
cieties present voted for and elected three candidates for
the AHA Board of Directors who were pledged to basic
humanitarian principles and to vigorous action by the AHA
to put these principles into effect.

This autumn the members of The American Humane As’
sociation will again have an opportunity to help return The
American Humane Association to its original humane prin-
ciples and to make it what it should be—an active, force-
ful leader of all of the humane organizations of the coun-
try and an organizer and coordinator of true humane work
throughout the nation.

Three nationally known leaders of the best type of hu-
mane work will be presented as candidates for election to
the AHA Board of Directors at .the annual corporation meet-
ing of the AHA to be held in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The
candidates whom we favor, and for whom nominating peti-
tions are now being circulated in accordance with the AHA
by-laws, are:

Robert Lindstrom, New Orleans, Louisiana—Mr. Lind-
strom is past president of the Louisiana Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and new president of the
Louisiana Association of Humane Societies. Mr. Lindstrom
is a businessman who has been widely known for many years
throughout all of the southeastern section of the United
States as an effective leader of all kinds of work to protect
animals from cruelty and suffering.

Illrs. Martha Flanagan, South Bend, Indiana—Mrs.
Flanagan is secretary of the South Bend Humane Society, a
director of the Midwest Conference of Humane Societies,
and is Secretary-Treasurer of the Indiana Federation of Hu-
mane Societies. Active humane workers throughout a wide
section of the middle west know from personal experience
that she is one of the most aggressive and effective ﬁghters
for our cause in the United States. ‘

Mrs. Roger L. Stevens, Ann Arbor, Michigan, and New
York City—Mrs. Stevens is president of the Animal Wel-
fare Institute, a director of the Washtenaw County (Ann
Arbor) Humane Society, and is known and highly respected
by humane workers all over the world as a leader of her
local humane society and of national and international work
that has greatly advanced and strengthened all of the hu-
mane movement in America.

These candidates have agreed among themselves upon the
following statement of basic principles and policies upon
which they will stand for election:

2

 

 

“We view with alarm and distress the lethargy, cynicism
and lack of concern about cruelty and suffering that have
become the principal characteristics of The American Hu-
man Association and the constant trend in the AHA away
from democratic control of the organization by its member-
ship. We believe that these destructive tendencies can be
arrested and reversed only by continuation of a reform of
the AHA Board of Directors along lines instituted by vote
of the AHA membership last year.

“If elected directors of The American Humane Associa-
tion, we will stand for .and actively ﬁght for the following
principles and policies:

“1. We will vote to place the American Humane AsSocia-
tion in the strongest possible opposition to all forms of
cruelty, wherever it exists, by whomever committed;

“2. We will vote to require, as a condition of membership
in or afﬁliation with the AHA, that any humane society
must dispose of any animal that comes under its control in
one of the following ways, and in no other:

a. By returning the animal to its owner;
b. By ﬁnding a suitable new home for the animal;
c. By granting the animal a painless death.

“3. We oppose all pound seizure laws and will vote to

use every available AHA resource to defeat pound seizure
bills;

“4. We will vote to provide facilities in the AHA to give
adequate ﬁeld service to member societies and we will vote
to conduct a vigorous campaign to organize humane work
in all parts of America where none exists;

“5. We will favor an amendment of AHA By-Laws to
give the AHA membership control of standards and quali-
ﬁcations for membership in the Association;

“6. We will favor an amendment of the By-Laws to de-
crease the terms of AHA directors to three years;

“7. We will vote to provide facilities for a continuing
campaign to extend AHA membership to every humanitarian
in America in place of the present policy of restricting mem-
bership to a few score persons and societies.”

PERHAPS some members of the AHA do not understand

why the continuing battle to reform and revitalize the
Association is absolutely vital to the whole humane move-
ment, particularly to the hundreds of local societies that are
the movement’s backbone. Perhaps we can best explain
why the AHA must be reformed by telling you about two
meetings of the AHA Board of Directors both held in Chi-

cago, one on January 21, 1955, and the other on May 14,
1955. I

 




At the meeting on January 21, the “Old Guard” majority
of the AHA Board voted that “henceforth” a humane so-
ciety shall be granted membership in the AHA, or shall be
allowed to continue current membership in the AHA, only
if the society:

“1. Has a voting membership of not less than 25 in-
dividual members;

“2. Employs at least one full-time paid teacher if a
humane education society;

“3. Has at least one full-time paid employee if a society
for the prevention of cruelty to children;

“4. Operates a shelter and a small ambulance and has
at least one full-time paid employee if a society for
the prevention of cruelty to animals;

Operates a shelter and has automotive transportation
available and has at least one full-time paid employee
if a humane society or an animal protective society;

Proves to the satisfaction of the board through its
answers to the Association’s ‘Questionnaire and Sur-
vey’ concerning organization, activities, and program
that its application for membership should be
granted.”

It is notable that these points may serve to measure the
wealth and prosperity of an organization but they provide

no measure of the level of an organization’s humane prin-
ciples or the quality of its work.

The openly avowed purpose of these materialistic
criteria for AHA membership is to provide grounds
for disenfranchising the many small humane so-
cieties in all parts of the country that have acutely
felt the inadequacies of the AHA and that last year
voted for reform of the AHA Board.

At the AHA Board meeting on May 14, the three direc-
tors elected on a reform platform by the Atlanta Conven-
tion tried to add another qualiﬁcation for afﬁliation with the
AHA by any local organization. Miss J. M. Perry, one of
the directors elected at Atlanta, moved that, in order to be
accepted as a member of The American Humane Associa-
tion, any animal protective society must “dispose of any
animal received at its shelter in a humane manner.”

Most humanitarians would think that this should be the
ﬁrst of all requirements for any humane organization, but
the AHA Board of Directors voted down the motion, 9 to 3.
The only directors voting for the motion were Mr. C. Ray-
mnnd Naramore, Miss Perry and Professor Roland Smith.

Needless to say, Miss Perry and Professor Smith were the.

other two directors elected by the AHA membership last

Year. . . ﬂ . 31
Mrs. Stevens, one of our candidates thlS year, c ectiv Y

4

 

stated our feelings about all of this in a letter to Mr. Kerns
Wright, Chairman of the Board of the AHA. Mrs. Stevens
said:

“We have certainly come a long way from the
original purposes for which humane societies were
founded when a set of standards can be drawn up and
accepted as a basis for admission to membership in
The American Humane Association, complete down to
the last detail as regards such matters as charters,
incorporation, by-laws, directors, ofﬁcers, members,
meetings, even speciﬁcally demanding such material
advantages as a full-time paid employe and motor
transport, but omitting the most fundamental rule of
honest and honorable shelter operation: the humane
disposal of all animals that enter the shelter.”

To many humanitarians who have trusted The American
Humane Association and who have not been in a position
to watch the decay that has been progressively rotting our
once great federation for many years, the clear implications
of the Board actions that we report here may tax credulity.
What we report, however, is on the record and the implica-
tions are inescapable.

But what we have told you above is by no means the
whole story.

At the meeting on May 14, the majority of the
AHA Board (with only Naramore, Perry, and Smith
dissenting) voted to try to disenfranchise all but 30
or 40 of the approximately 3,000 individual members
of the AHA.

Hardly a person who will receive this leaﬂet will be
allowed a vote in the 1955 annual meeting of the
AHA if the unprincipled majority of the AHA Board
succeeds in carrying out its intentions.

Speciﬁcally, the majority of the AHA Board voted, at the
May 14 meeting, to attempt to railroad through a rump spe-
cial meeting of the AHA membership an amendment to the
AHA by-laws which would allow an individual voting mem-
bership in the AHA only to persons who pay $500 and who,
in addition, are speciﬁcally accepted for membership by the
AHA Board.

This amendment, if adopted, would summarily ex-
pel about 3,000 present members, including virtually
every active leader of humane work in America.

The proposed amendment of by-laws also provides that:
“The Board of Directors may terminate any membership at
any time and shall have full discretionary powers in so
doing.”

Still further, the Board voted at its May 14 meeting to
propose an additional amendment of the by-laws which
would allow two-thirds of the members of the board
to remove any director from ofﬁce even though that
director had been elected by the AHA membership.

The purpose of this provision, obviously, would be to en-

5

 




ahle the “Old Guard” of the AHA Board to retain control
of NM allairs and policies, regardless of the wishes of
alliliated societies and individual members.

The story is not yet ﬁnished.

At the same May 14 meeting, the majority of the AHA
Board voted to attempt to railroad its proposed amendments
to the. AHA hy-laws by calling a special meeting of corpora-
tion members in Seattle, Washington, late this summer. The
:Igi-mlit at the meeting will be a motion to accept the amend-
tltents to hy-laws proposed by the AHA Board.

The clear purpose of calling such a meeting in
Seattle—thousands of miles from the center of popu-
lation of American humane societies—was to prevent
the smaller humane societies and the AHA’s individ-
ual members from having a vote on a proposal to
change the fundamental character and nature of the
Association.

In our opinion, such political maneuvering is not merely
umlemocratic, it is immoral. We have been advised that
it is illegal.

HY is the majority of the AHA Board so intent upon

retaining control of the AHA that it is willing to de-
strny the very nature of the Association rather than submit
.lelmtetl questions to the AHA membership and to the hu-
mane societies that do all of the humane work of the
country?

We know the answer to that question and will give it, but
in order to make our reasoning clear, we think that it will
he Useful ﬁrst to describe the present condition and activi-
lit‘s Hi illO All/h.

\loet humanitarians, we are sure, believe that the primary
functions of The American Humane Association are (1) to
nipplv ﬁeld assistance and expert counsel to the hundreds
of local humane societies that man the front line trenches
of the humane battle and (2) to plan, coordinate and ex—

erute national projects in humane education and attacks

upon the great national cruelties. . '
ll the MM does not perform these functions, it does

nothing. . . . th
The fact is that at the time this is written e
n has only one ﬁeld

American Humane Associatio .
he whole of the United States. Since,
e even

worker to cover t .
one man cannot even pretend to glv

minimum service. to all of the humane societies 1n tlie
United States. this lone ﬁeld man is alm‘ost entiriey
restricted to a very superﬁcial brand of lick an .1:
activity in the southeastern states. Wlt

Pmm'“ 'llions of dollars, the AHA Board

an endowment of m1 1
' oca
saw that it cannot afford more assrstance to l _

e societies than can be provided by its one

oln-ioudy‘.

human

ﬁeld worker.

The highly paid executives in the AHA headquarters out
in Denver do occasionally write a letter to a local society
that is in trouble or in need of help and even more rarely
they may visit a society for a few hours, but every local so-
ciety in the country knows well that it is now impossible to
get real help of any kind from The American Humane
Association.

The National Humane Review, the magazine that is the
principal and almost the only educational enterprise of the
AHA, has been reduced to six issues a year, has been op-
erated since last November without an editor, and is circu-
lated almost exclusively to the people who in all of the
United States are least in need of humane education.

By far the greater part of the large payroll of the Ameri-
can Humane Association is spent on the purely administra-
tive staff in the big mansion in Denver. The AHA is cur-
rently spending very considerably more on the payroll of its
ﬁnance and accounting department than on its entire field
service.

(And at the May 14 meeting of the AHA Board, the di-
rectors voted a $2,000 salary increase to the staff ﬁnance
secretary.)

We could say very much more about the way in which the
AHA wastes the money of "its contributors and its deceased
endowers on ineﬁicient administrative procedures while it
fails and refuses to perform its proper functions, but it is
more important to call attention to the degeneration of AHA
principles. We will close this section of our remarks on the
deﬁciencies of the AHA by quoting the late Sydney Cole-
man, once president of the AHA and of the American SPCA
(the society that operates the New York City Pound). Mr.
Coleman, who probably knew the ineffectiveness of the
AHA better than anyone else in the United States, said a
year or two ago, in an irascible but truthful moment, that
“The AHA could close its doors tomorrow and not a
single dog would miss his daily biscuit.”

HE BASIC DECAY of the AHA is in its principles. For

years past, and progressively, the directors of the AHA
have shunned controversy. They have been unwilling to
advocate or ﬁght for any policy that would bring them into
conﬂict with any “respectable” group that defended or
proﬁted from the suffering of either animals or children.
This obsessive fear of “controversy” still governs all of the
policies and program of the AHA.

For example, under extreme pressure from the whole
membership of the AHA, the AHA Board once organized
a committee against animal seizure legislation. This com-
mittee met a few times and at least some of the committee
members diligently tried to formulate a policy and program
that would unite the humane movement in opposition to
animal seizure laws. But then, when the heat from the
AHA membership had died down, the committee against

7

 

 




animal seizure legislation was allowed quietly to languish
into inactivity and then was formally killed. The AHA
now has no committee to combat animal seizure legislation
and it is notable that the AHA Board of Directors has not
even discussed this most serious problem of the whole hu-
mane movement since the old committee was killed.

It is relevant to point out, in connection with this bit of
history, that Hugh Paine, chairman of the Board of the
American SPCA, is one of the most powerful members of
the AHA Board of Directors and that until very recently
Sydney Coleman, long the president of. the American SPCA,
was unquestionably the dominant member of the AHA
Board. The directors of the American SPCA have openly
favored animal seizure legislation. The law which now
takes hundreds of dogs every year out of the shelter of the
ASPCA and hands them over to laboratories probably
never could have been enacted without tacit approval by
the ASPCA.

The “Old Guard” directors of the AHA continue to say,
whenever they are prodded into saying anything at all, that
they oppose animal seizure legislation. Any thinking hu-
manitarian will wonder, however, why that same “Old
Guard” indignantly refused, as moved by Miss Perry, to re-
quire that affiliated humane societies of The American
Humane Association dispose of all animals humanely.

It has become customary, when the AHA Board is
criticized on this score, for the board to reply by calling its
critics “anti-vivisectionists.” A careful examination of the
record will show that the AHA Board never replies by dis-
cussing the issues or offering any leadership to the em-
battled local humane societies and state federations.

The fact is, of course, that almost every humane society
and every individual humanitarian in the United States op-
poses animal seizure legislation. The issue is not vivisection,
but a basic principle in the operation of any humane society.

We emphasize the poverty of principle with which the
AHA Board has met the problem of animal seizure legisla-
tion only because this is an area in which the faults of the
AHA Board can be most easily seen. The refusal of the
AHA Board to combat animal seizure legislation is not, how
ever, the only evidence that the present AHA Board is un-
concerned about cruelty and suffering. It is a fact, publicly
asserted repeatedly by former members of the AHA Board
who are now active in the movement for reform, that the
AHA Board almost never devotes even a few minutes to dis-
cussion of any principle or problem of humane work. In its
infrequent meetings, this board spends long hours discuss-
ing the advantages of bonds over common stocks, enactlng
resolutions transferring funds from one bank to another,
and discussing proﬁts and loss. It long ago reached the pomt
where it had virtually no time for, and no inclination for,
the direction of strategy and tactics of the American humane

movement.

 

 

Even the most casual worker in American local humane
societies can satisfy himself of the truth of these statements
by asking himself: What policy or program of the American
humane movement has ever originated in the Board of the
AHA? What leadership from the AHA, on any front of the
battle against cruelty, is felt in any local humane society?
What help has the American Humane Association given to
any local humane society since November of 1954?

WE said above that we know why the directors of the

AHA so desperately cling to the power to continue their
do-nothingness, that they are willing to wreck the AHA by
expelling its 3,000 members and scores of its constituent
societies. Having presented the background, we can now
give our explanation of the phenomenon of a small group of
entrenched men and women who are ﬁghting to retain the
power to do nothing.

We charge that the motivation in this seemingly para-
doxical situation is pure selﬁshness.

We charge that what the American humane movement
is witnessing and combating is a conspiracy by the highly
paid professional managers of a few organizations with 7-
figure endowments (and some of them with 7-figure in-
comes) to protect their personal interests. These men
dominate the present board of directors of the AHA.

Some of the professional managers of smaller societies
have been hoodwinked into identifying their interests with
those of the ruling group, but many of these men, among
whom are some of the genuine and most able humane work-
ers of the country, are increasingly discovering that the men
with the 5-digit salaries have no intention of giving any kind
of help to the men or the societies below them in the eco-
nomic scale.

The handful of heavily endowed big organizations that
now control the AHA do not need nor do they want any help
from the AHA. They want only to be sure that the AHA
is under their control and will not interfere with anything
that they do.

If they ﬁnd it expedient to give dogs and cats to labora-
tories (as some of them do) they want the AHA so well
under their control that it will never object.

If they wish to charge full commercial prices for any
medical or surgical help given to suffering animals in their
clinics, refusing all charity to the sufferers (as some of them
do), they want to be sure that the AHA will never expose
them nor suggest that their policies are something less than
those of the ideal humane society.

If they wish to spend thousands of dollars on construc-
tion of handsome offices for their executives, (as some of
them do), they want to be sure that the AHA will maintain
a benign silence.

And if some of them are sending out dog catchers to

9

 




seize children’s pets while refusing to send ambulances to
pick up animals injured by motor cars (as some of them
are), they want to be sure that such policies will not be dis-
cussed by the Board of Directors of the AHA.

We say to all of the hundreds of honest, conscientious
local humane societies in the United States that want an
equally conscientious and honest national federation, that
they must end the present control of the AHA by the pres-
ent oligarchy of high-salaried sinecure holders. The Ameri-
can humane movement will not move forward until the AHA
is returned to the control of men and women who work in
and understand the terrible problems that face every local
worker.

A vote for the “Old Guard” of the AHA Board is
a vote to stray further from the basic principles of
the humane movement, and it is a vote against giving
to hundreds of local humane societies the help that
they so desperately need.

PROPONENTS of the selﬁsh oligarchy that now rules the

AHA have issued several statements since the AHA Con-
vention of last year which attempt to make it sound as
though some sort of unruly and illegitimate rabble took
charge of that Convention. The fact is, of course, that every
person who voted in that convention was a legal and legiti-
mate voting member of the AHA or was a legal and legiti-
mate representative of a local society afﬁliated with the
AHA. At the convention was the largest proportion of
AHA’s membership that had attended any AHA convention
in all of the organization’s history.

The meeting was conducted under the rulings of a pro-
fessional parliamentarian who was engaged by the AHA
Board.

The vote was counted by tellers appointed by the AHA
Board.

A clean cut issue was presented to the members and so-
ciety representatives present and they responded by voting
overwhelmingly against the do-nothingness of the “Old
Guard.”

It appears that the majority of the AHA Board does not
like the kind of democratic and representative meeting that
was held at Atlanta. The Board majority appears to prefer
the kind of meeting that they planned for Seattle— a meet-
ing at which it would be almost impossible for an average
AHA member or society to exercisethe right to a vote. It
is perfectly clear that the AHA Board majority chose Seattle
for its special meeting to amend the by-laws because a spe-
cial trip to Seattle would be so expensive for most AHA
members and the smaller humane societies that they would
be unable to attend. In the quiet of a smoke-ﬁlled room, the
AHA Board intended, the by-laws would be amended by vote
of the bigger societies and a handful of people on expense
accounts.

10

 

 

 

 

allairs resulting from

BECAUSE of the confusion in AHA
the undemocratic actions of the All.\ Board. it is im-
possible at this time to foresee all steps that Inns! be taken
to save the association. lt is by no means certain that the
AHA Board has revealed all of the steps it plans to deprive
the AHA membership of a vote.

In addition, several groups of AHA members are con-

templating various avenues of legal action to protect mem-

bership rights.

One thing. however, is absolutely vitally important all
AHA members, and all member societies, must maintain
their AHA membership, in good standing. and plan now to
attend the annual meeting of the AHA that is scheduled
to be held in Grand Rapids, Michigan, this autumn.

The summary of the situation is: this:

1. The need for drastic reform of the American
Humane Association has become even more appar-
ent and more necessary than it was last year;

2. The “old guard” majority of the AHA Board
has revealed its lack of humane principles by flatly
refusing, in a record vote. to require that ntember
humane societies dispose of animals humanely;

3. Desperately ﬁghting to keep control of the
potential power and the huge endowment of our
national federation, a few highly-paid job holders
are trying by trickery to take voting rights away
from thousands of AHA nlembers;

4. It has been Inade clear that if the plot to alter
the basic structure of the AHA succeeds, or if the
“Old guard” is left in control, the AHA will con-
tinue to be a “do nothing” organization, providing
no assistance to local humane societies and oﬁering
no leadership to the humane nlovement.

5. To save the AHA, the members of the AHA
must protect their rights—by legal action if neces-
sary—and then the membership must appear at the
Grand Rapids annual meeting and vote for reform.

If anyone has any doubt about the right and the wrong
in this situation, we suggest a simple way of settling the
Problem. Ask yourself: “How would a suffering animal
vote?” Would the animal vote to leave the AHA in the

11

 




hands of the people now in control? Or would the animal
vote for people who pledge themselves to place the ﬁght
against cruelty above everything else?

Remember: this year, in the AHA, you have a
chance to vote for those who cannot vote for them-
selves!

(Signed)

Bessie Aldrich, Portsmouth, Virginia
Felton P. Aldridge, Birmingham, Alabama,
Florence Backus, Riverside, California
Mrs. Anne E. Brandt, Cleveland, Ohio

Mrs. Joseph Brennemann, Greenwich, Connecticut

Robert J. Chenoweth, Kansas City, Missouri
Nicholas P. Cholis, South Bend, Indiana

Delos E. Culver, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Isabella S. Diamond, Alexandria, Virginia
Mrs. Oliver Dreyer, Texarkana, Arkansas
Lucia K. Dwight, Albany, New York

Ruth W. Forney, San Diego, California

Mrs. Cora Lees Gesell, Ann Arbor, Illichigan
Edith Goode, Woodstock, Vermont

Gladys Gray, Des Moines, Iowa

Anita Harris, Castine, Maine

Carol I. Jenks, Santa Barbara, California
Grace Johnson, Salt Lake City, Utah

Lloyd W. Larimore, Ft. Wayne, Indiana

Mrs. Ella Megginson, University City, \Missouri
Mrs. Mary Frances Morrisette, Norfolk, Virginia
C. Raymond Naramore, Rochester, New York
Miss J. M. Perry, Greenville, South Carolina

Mrs. Marguerite Ravenscroft, Santa Barbara,
California

Mrs. Laura Sabin, Vineland, New Jersey
Gladys Seward, Jackson, Tennessee

Roland M. Smith, Champaign, Illinois

Mrs. Pearl Twyne, Arlington, Virginia

D. Collis Wager, Utica, New York

Mrs. Fenby S. Webster, Kansas City, Missouri
Mrs. Marie Wiegand, Rock Island, Illinois
Alice Morgan Wright, Albany, New York
Hilda Ziegler, Scranton, Pennsylvania

 




 

1"(“““‘{““{ ‘11‘11‘{{“{“l{(
’IllL’b}*>>}>i}?”|’?’>i>>}}’ "”.

 

‘ 1“ 1"

 

T0
the Board of Directors

of the American Humane

Association.
can Humane Association.

The-Committee to Reform
All Members of the Ameri-

Fourth
Urgent Message

 

A Report and a

 

 

 

 

 

 




You have probably received a communication
from the Board of the American Humane Associa-
tion which includes a purported summary of the
meeting of the Board on August 19. This sum-
mary carefully obscures the real meaning and ef—

fect of the action that the inner circle of the

Board has taken.

It is obvious that this policy would be a calam-
itous handicap to the growth, inﬂuence and useful—
i ness of the entire American humane movement.

To understand the real signiﬁcance of actions by
the Board at its Chicago meeting, it must be re-
called that in July a United States District Court
ruled that the willful majority of the AHA Board
has been acting unlawfully. The court enjoined
the Board against proceedings with plans to rail-
road radical by—law amendments through a gerry-
mandered special meeting in Seattle.

The proposed by—law amendments would have
put 90 per cent of us, the AHA members, entirely
out of our Association. The unlawful special
meeting was planned to turn over control of our
organization, in perpetuity, to a mere handful of
people —— people who seem to some of us to be
more concerned about power, payrolls, and per-
sonal prestige than about the prevention of cruelty.

(In an earlier “Message to Humanitarians” we
explained the motives that have. driven the inner
circle of the Board to resist all attempts to en-
large and re— activate our Association. If you did
not receive that Message, we will send a copy to
you upon request.)

The willful majority of the Board revealed, 1n
the August 19 meeting, that it has not given up the
objectives that the Federal court said it was pur-
suing by unlawful means. The Board majority is
still trying to achieve the same ends.

The majority of thevBoard are still determined:

1. To prevent the American Humane Association

from becoming an effective, strong and vital
force in the humanitarian movement.

To perpetuate themselves in control, regard-
less of the wishes of the members.

To exclude all new members, and to permit
humanitarians to be members of the Associa-
tion only to the minimum extent clearly forced
upon them by the law.

The three independent‘directors who were elect-
ed by the members at the 1954 meeting, Naramore,
Perry and Smith, resolutely opposed the new ef-
forts by the majority to dominate our Association,
stop its growth and paralyze its activities. They
brought home the fact that the United States Dis—
trict Court has forcefully declared that the direct-
ors should not circumvent democratic processes as
the majority unsuccessfully tried to do in calling
a Special Meeting of members in Seattle to adopt
amended by-laws which would disfranchise 90%
of us.

They were able to prevent the passage of two

resolutions which had been carefully prepared in

advance by the “inside” group. -

First, a resolution was defeated which proposed
removing the Annual Meeting to be held on Oc-
tober 31 of this year from Grand Rapids to an—
other place less convenient for most of the mem-
bers.

The Annual Meeting this year will remain at
Grand Rapids.

Second, a resolution was defeated providing that
“no further notice of expiration of membership
will be sent to . . . members of the Association”
after a single notice to be sent to those whose
membership expired after last December 1.

This resolution, although it was defeated, again
reveals the basic thinking of the inside group:
They would like to get rid of us as members -—
although they have no objection ‘to our contribu-
tions! Fortunately, on motion of Mr. Naramore,
this resolution was tabled.

However, the majority passed three resOlutions
designed to accomplish the Same purpose of reduc-
ing the number of voting members: (1) No new
members who join after August 18 may vote at the
Annual Meeting on October 31; (2) Any member
whose membership has expired on or before Sep-
tember 30 and whose dues are not received by
September 30 will be dropped from membership;
(3) In the future, no person may become a mem-
ber of the Association entitled to vote unless he
or she has contributed at least $500.

You will note that the effect of the ﬁrst two res-
olutions is this: The majority of the Board, hav-
ing been forced by order of the Court to abandon
its Scheme to hold a gerrymandered meeting of
members at Seattle, has taken action to reduce the
number of members who may be able to vote at
the regular Grand Rapids meeting.

At that meeting, they propose to go ahead with
the election of their three hand-picked nominees
for the Board to oppose the candidates who will
be nominated by members. They also propose to
force through the adoption of their amended by-
laWs.

We ask each of you to check the status of your
membership. Be sure you have paid yourdues. If
you have not yet paid your dues, be sure to pay be-
fore September 30. Be sure you are eligible to vote
at the October 31 meeting, regardless of how you
vote.

The third resolution — providing that voting
membership in the Association will hereafter be
open only to applicants who pay $500 —— took the
fOrm of an amendment to the proposed amended
by-laws. It can become effective only if the mem- .
bership approve it at the Grand Rapids meeting.
Those proposed by-laws must be defeated. The
humane movement must not be allowed to become
a closed society.

They originally proposed, as you know, to bring
about a quick end, in one sudden blow, to partici—
pation by existing members by eliminating 90% of
us -- all Who have not {paid $500. They-now pro-
pose to accomplish the same purpose. by amore

 




gradual process of excluding new recruits unless
they pay this large sum. 5

We must not permit this to happen. “’63 must.
defeat the proposed amended by-laws, by attending
the Grand Rapids meeting on October 31 and voting
against them. We must elect new directors at that
meeting who are dedicated to recruiting more mem-
bers — not to excluding persons —— and to the ex-
pansion and reinvigoration of the humane move—
ment.

It is now or never! The inside group have con—
cocted a scheme by which the Grand Rapids meet—
ing will be confined to those who have paid their
dues by September 30. Unless those members turn
out for the Grand Rapids meeting and defeat the
proposed amended by-laws and elect three inde-
pendent directors, there may be no way in the
future for the members to regain control of our
Association. The Association, as you know, is of
fundamental importance to the development -—— or
the non—development — of humanitarianism in this
country. It must be controlled by its members, by
persons who believe in more humane work, more
recruits, and more dedication to the ﬁght against
inhumane practices. '

The inside group which controls the Board has
made it clear that it will adopt every possible means
to achieve its objectives, to perpetuate its control
of our Association and gradually to strangle its
activities. Using the Association’s funds, the “in-

siders” will wage an intensive campaign to bring

to Grand Rapids people who will vote their way.
They will try to divide and conquer by setting.
group against group. They will attack the motives
of those who take the lead against them, and will
charge them with secret and unworthy motives.

We are conﬁdent that you will not be deceived
by this campaign, and that you will not lose sight
of the true issues:

Do we want the resources, organization and pres-
tige of the American Humane Association to be
used to promote a vigorous, expanding, national
humanitarian movement?

Do we want a democratic organization, operated
on democratic principles and welcoming and seek—
ing new members who will enlist in the cause?

Or do we want to perpetuate an inside group and
to arm them with by-laws of their own concoction,
dedicated not to the cause of increasing and im-
proving humane work, but to assuring their own
restrictive control?

If you wish to join with us, we should like to
have you ﬁll out the enclosed card and mail it to
me, unless you have already done so. It involves
no obligation. It merely indicates your general
approval and support.

In any event, be sure: Pay your dues before Sep-
tember 30 . Attend the Grand Rapids meeting on
October 31 . We hope you will vote against the
amended by-laws and candidates supported by the
inside group: But by all means, attend and vote. "

NICHOLAS P. CHOLIS, Chairman.

 




Sr 221, 1955,

Sr SSgSr m. StSVSSs
SSS 1208, Squibb SIS

:7 ’34) y: lfwhkl’ AVQO’

SSS York, ‘3’

5......

““373",

DSST‘HF. StSVSSS:
”r1 31'1“: .~ : ,3 3' 3 “9:3
w.) m .h mi SCI} 8311.1. SEQSS
abaut:my'maeting with thSm.

TSS firSt SSSVSSSSSiSS
SSS SSlSVSnt SSSSSSSSS
SS :S SiS SuS

S SS, 31» ilw

tsm”SS Sf hrs S

I MS}. $3.5»; thﬁﬁlly if?

SSS, of
:2: 1:. ‘21

YEE1‘5‘33 33:1“:
’1 («783 3

4...: k1”:

101:5
“4..

’é§:;v:1n§ir'

(":0
‘1" r
375k 5‘ :3 9:1. .

r";
Q
N
~31'ﬂf‘ I?!“

p-
guy's»-

V5

”:th gjﬁiﬂsmxﬂ 31231;.” ,
,5 .ﬁ , ., “g 1* ’
hSndSlng actim
w . ' y ‘ -\ 1-.

SSSS SSS Shw

LLL/

an
I35

Sprep

: S.

5 g V‘m.’
ml"
«2'
%

114*”? i”;

Luau-:5

#er
"i311“,

(Q

Li.» \6. 0;)” (5: US: I (ifs,

iiram him

TSS
3,11} 8;
Sréi Sr ShSS

{titty} 471 "1.3
a “V;
f:u~:v‘ ‘13 Vlad? gag}. 3.4.5.

- V "1
S116}? SESSS

“SC ”C ’3'

.- {71

”r"
.3»
:5"
at;

127+

.rw’cu

'31 {‘8 "t

E VSSSSrS SS Sugww t1 2%‘S11 be bn‘pf%1 2
yam? “SSS SSS inﬁSrSst in ‘SS CSSS by Salem“ Sing Ju‘

‘:uSrS2S, SSSS cry SWSCS, tc inc .;ui2 S aﬂ'ﬁu: rag r833.

as?»

M»)

ful Em

S Slausurv tS 2SSS

SSS and I hope tlzaﬁi
all 3Su SSS grate

* SSS ymur ASrSSS

(gm-u

‘J Eéw‘

S the Simon; mi the SIS itiSS Sf +119 SS.

1"..-

:3 ‘bm
mtion of the case.

9 1363’3"
J‘r“1r3?:g’ G 1

.1.

l
SSS

IS

:{LZ JR, TS”? tLS

ﬂ

"7

I}
My»;

SS nSt neeﬁ t0
helpSS SthiS Sntter.

SinSSSSky,

FrSS
4:

yea SS,SSS. SSSSSSS at Ann SrSSr

S3833

 




Mrs. Roger L. Stevens,
3 hideaway,
Ahh Arbor, Mich.

Dear Christine:
Enclosed are (i) the campa’gh document of our Opposition to Whidh I

referred today on the phone and (2) a draft of something that might be worked
into our own campaign statement.

Since "ou Lari and I are the committee to reoare a statement on
‘ .Y 2 . - , _ , .
behalf of the reform group and its candidates, you are ihVited to edit the
statement that I have produced, tear it up, or write a substitute of your own.
Don‘t fear any pride of authorthip that you may imagine I have. I learned
lone aeo under hardboiled old city editors to take cri ieiam without aim.

w 3 c. 2 ,.

It seems to me that we ehoald get this statement, or some other, into the
mail juet as fast ae possible.

I am to see your husband at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow. I intend to ask him
whether he will finance an effort to win a Federal court injunction restraining
the AHA Board from holding the propoeed Seattle meeting and from disengrahehieing
Aha memberehip by rejecting memberships or memberehip reaewals:ﬁmm without
valid ground.

Should you wish to consult with Larry, he can be reached for two days
at his home in Phoenix-~7221 N. Canyon Way East.

F e d 3"“ re

1-6] V

DIRECTORS
Robert J. Chenoweth, Chairman, Kansas City, Mo.; Delos E. Culver, Vice-Chairman, Philadelphia, Pa.; Charles H. Appleby, Treasurer,
New York, N. Y.; Mrs. R. Alger Sawyer, Secretary, Scarsdale, N. Y.; Dr. Myra Babcock, Detroit, Mich.; Oliver Evans, Clayton,
Mo.; Mildred Fitz-Hugh, Chicago, "L; The Rev. Robert A. Russell, Denver, Colo.; Joseph Sadowsky, Cedar Rapids, Ia.; Mrs. Edward
S. Voss, Monkton, Md.; D. Collis Wager, Utica, N. Y.
STAFF
Fred Myers, Executive Director; Larry Andrews, Field Director; Helen E. Jones, Educational Activities Director

 




'

f

 

 

 




 

The American Humane Association
135 Washington Avenue, Albany 10, N.Y.

OFFICERS

Kerns Wright, Van Wert, Ohio, President;
Hon. Peter G. Gerry, Providence, .I., F1rst
Vice-President; Eric H. Hansen, Boston, Mass,
Second Vice-President; Miss Louise Branch, Rich-
mond, Va., Third Vice-President; H. P. Schoen—
berner, Brooklyn, N.Y., Treasurer; Lloyd R.
McDonald, Brooklyn, N.Y., Assistant Treasurer;
Charles W. Friedrichs, San Francisco, Calif., Sec-
retary.

DIRECTORS

Miss Louise Branch, Richmond, Va.; Sydney
H. Coleman, Hollywood, Fla.; Hon. William A.
Eckwall, Portland, Ore.; C. W. Friedrichs, San
Francisco, Calif.; Hon. Peter G. Gerry, Provi-
dence, R.I.; Eric H. Hansen, Boston, Mass; B.
Omer Hostetter, Dayton, Ohio; Mrs. C. McKindel,
Jr., Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mrs. I. Milo Kit-
tleson, Madison, Wis.; Hugh E. Paine, New York
City, N.Y.; William T. Phillips, Philadelphia,
Pa.; H. P. Schoenberner, Brooklyn, N.Y.; George
A. H. Scott, Chicago, Ill

EXECUTIVE STAFF

Mel Morse, Albany, N.Y., Executive Director;
Miss Florence N. Maher, Albany, N.Y., Ofﬁce
Manager; Larry Andrews, Albany, N.Y., Director
of Field Service; Willard G. Lane, Chandler,
Ariz., Director Rocky Mountain Region; Lester A.
Giles, Jr., Albany, N.Y., Director Wildlife De-
partment; Joseph F. Moran, Albany, N.Y., Direc-
tor Children’s Department; Dr. W. A. Young,
Los Angeles, Calif., Director Western Region;
Fred Myers, Albany, N.Y., Editor National Hu-
mane Review; C. P. Norgord, Washington, D.C.,

Vol. 40
FEATURES

INDEX

Representative; Arthur R. Snelling, Albany, N.Y.,
Finance Secretary; H. Treleaven, New Or-
leans, La., Director Southeastern Region.

HONORARY VICE PRESIDENTS

Mrs. Bolling Barton, Miss Elizabeth M. Battles,
Hon. Percival P. Baxter, John Beals, MISS
Isabella L. Bennett, Miss Harriett G. Bird, Mrs.
Louis Borsody, Mrs. Duddleson Brown, Dr. Grace
W. Burnett, Miss Annie Castleman, Mrs. John P.
Caulﬁeld, Dr. Archibald J. Cloud, Richard C.
Craven, James Curtiss, Paul C.' Darrow, Mrs.
Hartley Dodge, E. Blois du Bors, Rudolph B.
Dutt, Jr., Miss Anne Edwards, Mrs. E. A. Ed-
wards, Miss Lizzie T. Elliott, Mrs.' Mary A.
Fiebig, Otis Gerke, Mrs. R. W. G1bbes, Carl
Lambach, Mrs. Jack London, Frank Macha, MISS
Annie L. Macleod. Thomas E. Marshall, Mrs. E. J.
McWhirter, Miss Anna Belle Morris, Harry D.
Nims, Dr. August C. Orthmann, Mrs. John .R.
Rathom, Mrs. M. D. Ravenscroft, Barclay Robin-
son, Hon. Morgan M. L. Ryan, Mrs. J. Myer
Schine, Richard E. Schmidt, Mrs. W. W. Thaycr,
Mrs. F. A. Vaughn, Miss Gertrude E. Vrooman,
D. A. Wallace, Mrs. T. Harry West. Charles R.
Wilson, Mrs. Alice T. Whitney, Fred A. Wurz~
bach.

ASSISTANT SECRETARIES

William J. Boyink, Raymond J. Hanﬁeld, Ray
Hinea, Mrs. Warren H. Hosmer, Clifton E. John-
son, J. Seth Jones, Tom Justice, Florence N.
Maher, Rutherford T. Phillips, Albert A. Pollard,
Ernest J. Reynolds, Marie Rosato, Prof. Leo P.
Schleck, Bentley P. Sook, William Sullivan, Wil-
liam A. Swallow, Gustave P. Utke, John W.
Welch, Dr. William F. H. Wentzel.

No. 9

One Day With an SPCA—A Picture Story ............................... 4
You Ought to Know About Chickens ................... Henry A. Torrington IO
Butch—A short story ............................ James Charles Bendrodt 12
Sippunk—Adventures with a Chipmunk ...................... John Laidlaw 14

NEWS OF THE HUMANE MOVEMENT

Last Call for the Convention .........

...... 17
Inventors Beat Path to AHA Doorﬁ .................................... I8
Eisenhower and (Stevenson Not Talking .................................. 25

EDITORIALS AND DEPARTMENTS
Right Off My Chest ....... i ............................... Larry Andrews 2
The Collier's Article. ................................................. 3
Salute to Shelter Workers ....... . ..... . ..... . ......................... 3
Letters from Readers ................ .. . . . . ............................ I9

 

 

 

The Review inviter tbe rubmirrion of articler, pboto
to tbe editorial purpore of tbe magazine. No pay
lubed. Manuscript; rbould be typed, if porrible, and double-r
be 8 96 10 incber, on glorry paper. Advertiring of
bandlzng or caring for animal: is accepted by The Review onl
product by advisory veternarianr. Patent medicine ad

 

grapbr, and drawing: appropriate
ment lJ‘ oﬂered for any material pub-
. paced; pbotograpbr rbould
animal foodi~ and equipment for
. . y after approval of tbe
vertzring 25 not accepted.

 

Rig/If Off
My (best

By LARRY ANDREWS
Director of Field Service, AHA

Fred Myers, Editor
Tbe National Humane Rezr'iezo

Dear Fred:

Thanks for your note of July 30th
which caught up with me in Los Angeles
day before yesterday. In it, you asked a
question: ”Where is your September
column? (Aug. 5 deadline)” That’s a
good question. My answer is not so
good. I haven’t had time to write it
yet and you will note that this is August

4. I can’t write it tomorrow because I'

will be en route to El Paso. The follow-
ing day, I will be en rOute to Midland.
After that——

Well, never mind the rest of the
itinerary but, eventually, I'll get back
to Albany for a few days before head-
ing south to a shelter worker’s confer-
ence in Atlanta. I have a number of
societies to visit on that trip, but will
get back in time for the big convention
in Boston.

I know editors detest excuses, especi-
ally long ones, but you really deserve
an explanation as to why I can’t do
the September column. You wanted me
to write it early in July before I left
on thistrip. But—reinember?—~—I was in
Albany only two days before leaving
on July 9. Since then (four weeks) I
have traveled more than 6,000 miles and
have visited more than a score of hu-
mane societies, inspecting their shelters
and making recommendations for im-
provement of facilities and animal wel-
fare programs, not to mention a meeting

(Continued on page 26)

 

OUR COVER

Every year the United States pr0~
duces more than one billion
chickens. A few organized humane
societies inspect the conditions
under which they are kept in the
last few hours of their lives, at
urban markets. An article begin-
ning on page 10 asks: Should we
do more?

 

 

 

 

 

 

Issued monthly by The American Humane Association, Publication ofﬁ
135 Washington Ave., Albany 10

, 8 at the Post Oﬂice at Mount M '
Feb. 28. 1925, autho’rized Nov. 1928. No responsfiiiliiiﬁ:
1

2.
anon. .135 Washington Ave.. Albany

0, N.Y., on Form 2579

cc. 404 N. Wesley Ave.,

________..—-—

Mount Morris 111.; editorial ofﬁce 1 ' New York.
Illinms, under the Act of M , N.Y. Subscription $f.50 per year; 2 years 35 Washington Ave., Albany 10,
arch, l1,379. Acceptance for mailing at special rate

STMASTER: Please return all undeliverable magazines to The American Humane ASSOC"

$2.50. Foreign $1.75, Entered as second-c1355
of postage provided for in section 412, ACt 9f

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE NATIONAL

HUMANE

REVIEW

(Reg. 0.5. Palm! Oﬁice)

Combined with the National Humane Journal, Founded in 1870
Published in the interest of the humane cause by

The American Humane Association and American Red Star Animal Relief
Editor: Fred Myers

 

The Collier’s Article

Collier”; magazine, issue of August 16, 1952, carried an
article by a Bill Davidson entitled "Antivivisectionists—Are
They Finished?” The author, writing in the sensational vein
necessary to sell such an article, answers his own question
afﬁrmatively. The anti-Vivisection movement, he says, is
virtually washed up.

The real purpose of the article, however, was neither to
ask nor to answer the question about anti-vivisectionists. The
real purpose (aside from making some money for Mr. David-
son and Collier’r) was to propagandize for pound seizure
legislation. The author thinks the Metcalf-Hatch Act is
wonderful and there ought to be laws like it in all states.

Since virtually all humane societies oppose such legislation,
the author retaliates with a gross smear. Many ”so-called”
humane society shelters, he says, "function principally as
execution chambers.” His implied argument is that it is
really immaterial whether an animal is given a quick, pain-
less death in a humane society shelter or is turned over to
a laboratory for experimental work. He attempts to bolster
this argument with the statement that no surgery ever is
performed on laboratory animals except under anesthesia—
which is, of course, not true.

We shall not attempt a debate with Mr. Davidson, since
his article is hardly a serious approach to the problems he
so distorts, but we do feel impelled to express surprise that
the editors of C Ollier’r would permit an obviously uninformed
writer to make obvious misstatements about such a subject
and to slander the work of the whole American humane
movement. The publishers of a magazine with Col'lz'er’r mass
circulation have an ethical obligation to something higher

than simple sensationalism—or so it Seems to us.

In proof of the statement that humane society shelters are
essentially abattoirs and the implication that they are no
kinder to the animals in their charge 1 than experimental
laboratories would be, Mr. Davidson says that the American ,
SPCA (the New York City SPCA) destroyed 98 per cent
of the animals it received in the year ending April 30, 1952.
The ASPCA, the author says, is the ”largest and best”_of
humane societies. There is a clear implication that, since the
ASPCA is the ”best” humane society, no other society offers
a record better than 98 per cent of all animals destroyed.

This, of course, is a monstrous misrepresentation of fact.
We won’t argue whether the ASPCA is the ”best” of all
humane societies. It does 'a great deal of commendable
humane work. But the ASPCA ﬁgure on animals destroyed
is just about the highest in the United States and bears no
relation whatever to the vastly different averages achieved by
the humane societies of the whole country. The technique
of the Davidson argument is comparable to asserting that
”Liberia is the best country in the world, the illiteracy rate
in Liberia is 98 per cent, so you see what a low literacy rate
the whole world has.”

The vast majority of the more than 600 humane societies
in the United States are working devotedly, with almost
incredible records of selﬂessness and sacrifice, to advance a
cause that springs from the best instincts of mankind. We
suspect that the editors of Collier’r will be a little ashamed,
after a bit, that they allowed the pages of their great maga-
zine to be used to smear such a movement in order to advance ’
hysterical legislation like the pound seizure laws.

Salute to Shelter Workers

The Animal Rescue League of Portland, Me, has recently
issued an annual report that covers the usual statistical data,
auditor’s report, etc. But what we liked best in the report
was the following paragraph, written by William A. MC—
Candless, Jr, the League President.

‘I‘During our big blizzard in February, Mr. Carbee (the
League Manager), walked in from his home when nothing
had been plowed in the whole city, a distance of at least
three miles, to be sure the animals were fed. Mr. Turner,
our night man, who had not too long ago had a bad fall,
thinking no one could come, had already calmly made his
plans to stay on as long as needed and take care of things.”

This is the same animal shelter in which the staff took

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

only three days to persuade a saw-whet owl, one of the wild-
est and most timid of birds, to ﬂy down to their shoulders to
eat from their hands. It is a shelter to which adult leaders of
Brownie and Boy Scout troops of Portland like to take their
girls and boys. It is, in short, a shelter where kindness is
preached and practiced.

We want to join in applauding Mr. Carbee and Mr. Turner.
We also want to add that there are thousands of equally
kindly and devoted men and women in the shelters of
humane societies throughout our country. In the last analysis
it is they who practice what the rest of us so often can only
preach.

- We salute them!

ﬁ

“ 'Page 3

 




  

 

     
     

 

ONE DAY
WITH AN

SPCA

N the August issue of The Review we presented an article

full of—even redundant with—statistics. It was an at-
tempt to show how big the animal. protective movement:
is-——the number of animals it rescues and shelters, the millions
of dollars generously contributed and spent, the vast quanti-
ties of equipment and buildings used, HIC army of kindly
men and women and children who dedicatedly labor in the
cause.

We thought the statistics were interesting and important~
and we still do. .

But, as has often been lamented by others, statistics are
inherently dull. And, as has also often been stated, a picture
is worth 10,000 words. The staff Of The Nell/em decided,
therefore, that the August statistical report should be sup-
plemented with this picture-report.

The photographs on the following pages were taken in
the shelter and in the region of the San Francisco Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. They are not intended,
' , however, as a story abOut the San Francisco society. Rather,
Photos by i , they are typical of pictures that could be made, any day, in
MADISON DEVLIN , any city where a vigorous animal protection society exists.

The same scenes and incidents occur repeatedly in Cleveland,
Miami, Kansas City, Detroit, Montreal, Great Bend, Bos-
ton—in hundreds of cities and towns.

You will ﬁnd the pictures fascinating— . but more than
that. They convey, as only pictures can, the signiﬁcance
behind the statistics we published in August. The signifi-
cance is—as we see it—that the humane societies of the
United States and Canada are performing a magniﬁcently
humane work that is indispensable to the moral and mate-
rial welfare of America.

The SPCA day begins with a problem involving ”Duke."

Hemmne oﬁcerORaymond Minton listens to a house-
wzfe who explams that she will soon be moving and

is unable to take Du/ee. She l t ,- , d
Duke a new home. MP“ he SPCA uzll ﬁn

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER,

1952

     

    
 

   
      
   
  
   
   
 

 

 

 

 

*a.‘_ A,

3.“,

 




3"

 

' >w“_ ' MM
‘ 0* MA, ”1"“

 

«am Who ”W' ”'““

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ommt.w..,

 

Minton places Duke in SPCA am-
bulance for removal to shelter. (Last
year humane society ambulances and
trucks ran more than 6,000,000

miles.) ﬁts:

 

Above is thesmain kennel room of the
shelter to which Du/ee went—sun-lit,
airy, rigidly clean. (Humane societies
in the U .3. have more than $8,000,000
invested in buildings and equipment.)

 

 

.v--_-

 

 

 

Du/ee was luck

y—he got to the shelter just before lunch
time. Above, Oﬁcers Minton and Ed Young are feed-
ing animals.’ (Humane societies spent more than $10;
000,000, exclusive of new building construction, on
animal protective work in 1951.)

After lunch, Assistant Secretary G. C. Willis, leads a
group of young visitors through the shelter and gives
a lesson on care of animals. The SPCA organizes many
visits by Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, school classes, and
other youth groups. The society also conducts humane
education programs in schools.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 




 

 

 

 

Ed Young meets the visiting youngsters while feeding
cats and takes time out to show a young lady how
soft a cat’s paw is.

M

A‘traywcat follows, brought by auwoman who found
it at her door. Deputy Walter [Hinton checks it into
the shelter.

 

McPherson moves on to check on feed, water, and
possibility of over-crowding in [lens where birds are
held short time before slaughter.

Page 6 THE NATIONAL HUMANE

 

 

Meanwhile, a stray waif is brought into the shelter
and registered at the oﬂice. Kennelman S. D. Iz'ohzn
is receiving the dog.

W

Outside the shelter, Humane Oﬂicers are at work on
other jobs. Here, Oﬂicer George McPherson inspects
chickens at a market.

 

     

   

2’ ,

 

,- . . '1’ ’Mo». . 1.. . ~
. . ”9 oft-"67‘ George W’arren for
a mszt to the stockyards. They watch for injuries,
rough handling of “71mm“; lack of food and water.

McPherson teams up wi

REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

A visitor seeking a pet discovers Duke. He and Deputy Ed Young
discuss Duke’s temperament and the type of home oﬁered. The
visitor decides he wants Duke and, in the oﬂ‘ice (right), Clerk
Carol Collins has him sign a Placement Contract, guaranteeing

proper care of Duke.

 

Ojﬁcers McPherson and Arthur Ger-
maine answer a report that several
pigeons were trapped in the screened
airshaft of a church.

 

 

Duke goes out the front door of the shelter with his new owner,
hound for a happy new home. (Last year, humane societies Germaine enters the shaft to investi-
found new homes for more than a quarter-million pets. gate. No pigeons were found.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952 Page 7

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Above, Cbief Investigating Ofﬁcer George
Warren begins a daily tour of riding
stables and parks. At rig/9t, be is cbecking
borses in a riding stable for sore backs
and injuries.

 

Using a special tool always carried in his saddle bag,
IVarren removes a stone from the boof of a limping borse.

 

Ofﬁcer Germaine answers a report by a housewife [ha] a
stray cat is trapped bcneatb the stairs of her borne.

Page 8

 
 
  

 

   

 

'- 30:155st 0R ,
' ‘ MEGS REDES‘

‘ .t “z Sariseczm

    

 
   

Tbe Oﬂicer sbows tbe stone to the horse’s rider and gives
a friendly trail-side lecture to a penitent listener.

 

[Vii/9 persuasive words and a "cat pole,” Germaine got [/96
. o a k
cat out and puts II III a cat-box ,, standard equipment on

SPCA ambulances.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 

 




 

 

u

 

 

A shower sweeps the city and
police phone that a horse has
slipped and injured its leg. Mc-
Pherson, Minton, and Germaine
coax the animal into the big horse
amhulance for transportation to
the shelter and veterinary care.
All these men are skilled in ani-
mal ﬁrst-aid.

months.

 

 

Secretary-Manager Charles W. Friedrichs (also Secretary of theAHA)
addresses a luncheon meeting of the Optimist Club, explaining the
SPCA work and opportunities for citizens to support it.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

Oﬂicer McPherson testiﬁes in court in a cruelty case inooloin g neglect
of horses. Defendant was ﬁned $500, placed on probation for six

 

 

 

EDITORIAL

These pic+ures 0+ "One Day Wi+h an
SPCA" have a moral.

In almos+ every major ci+y 0+ +he Uni+ed
S+a+es and Canada socie+ies like +his one
are laboring and +igh+ing +0 pro+ec+ animals
from suffering. Some are larger. some are
smaller. bu+ all are dedica+ed +0 +he e+ernal

war agains+ cruel+y.

In your own ci+yI as you read +hese lines.
a man in +he SPCA uniform probably is
rescuing a ca+I or finding a new home +or a
s+ray dog. or giving +irs+ aid +0 an iniured
horsel or leading a group of children +hrough
a humane shel+er and +eaching +hem kind-

ness.

This man (or H may be a woman) needs

your help.

A check made 0u+ +0 your local SPCA 0r
humane socie+y would provide +ha+ help!

 

 

Page 9

5’!

 




 

 

 

 

 

This year the farms of the United States
will produce more than a billion chickens.
Huma’nitarians should have a lively in-
terest in any industry that is breeding a
' billion living things in one year for proﬁt.
The purpose of this article is to excite
such an interest and to oﬂer information
upon which humane workers may hase
plans for investigation of cruelties and
corrective measures where necessary.

you ought to
[mow about
CHICKEN S

By HENRY A. TORRINGTON

ET’S faCe up to a fact—most active workers in the animal
L protective movement are principally concerned about
sufferings of cats and dogs. Some of us, some of the
time, give thought to the welfare of agricultural livestock.
A few of us are conscious of the widespread cruelties prac-
ticed on many species of wild animals. But most of us are
victims of the fact that anything out of sight is easily out
of mind. We devote most of our humane-work energies to
problems involving the types of animals we know best and
see regularly.

This is an illogical attitude, of course. There probably are
not more than 30,000,000 dogs in the United States and
hardly more cats. By contrast, there are at least 4,000,000,000
other domestic animals and fowl in America, and several
tens or hundreds of billions of wild animals. And man’s
cruelties to dogs and cats very seldom equal, in these
relatively enlightened days, the brutalities he inﬂicts on
many of the other animals that surround us. If dog and
cat breeders beat and tortured their animals as many live-

Page 10

 

 

stock dealers and truckers do cows, horses, sheep, and hogs,

humane organizations all over our land would rise unan-

imously and powerfully in a crusading protest.

All of which is by way of prelude to a report on chickens.

In the year 1952, the Department of Agriculture estimates,
farmers of the United States will hatch approximately
2,000,000,000 chickens and will raise more than 1,000,-
000,000 as broilers and laying hens.

Some of the 2,000,000,000 chicks that are hatched will be
be destroyed by being shoveled, alive, into incinerators. Mil-
lions upon millions will die, before reaching market or
laying age, of disease, injury, heat, cold, over-crowding,
and general abuse. More hundreds of millions will be killed
for market by a knife poked through their mouths into
their brains.

At almost every stage of life’s brief journey, the chickens
are treated less as living, feeling animals than as statistics
and commodities.

It is, of course, not so easy to penetrate the personality
of a chicken as that of a dog or cat. Chickens rank con—
siderably lower in the intelligence scale than cats or dogs.
Chickens, despite the centuries of their domestication, seem
still to be unwilling participants in the man-fowl relation-
ship. And, yet, many a farm woman has discovered, in the
routine of daily contact with her backyard ﬂock, that chickens
do have real personalities and that many of them seem actu-
ally to enjoy, if only slightly encouraged, a friendship with
human beings.

i There is every evidence that they can and do suffer physi-
cal pain as acutely as do other warm-blooded animals.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Most of the worst current abuses of
chickens are a result of the development,
in recent years, of a mass-production
type of chicken raising that probably is
unfamiliar to most city-dwellers and
even to many farmers. Until only a few
decades ago, most of the nation’s chick-
ens and eggs were produced on general-
purpose farms. The chickens, on such
farms, were an incidental part of the
farm program. Traditionally, the farm
wife raised the poultry and income from
it was her pin money. Under those cir-
cumstances the hens, squired by a few
patriarchal roosters, generally roamed
the barnyard and the ﬁelds at their own
will, picked up grain from the barn
ﬂoors, and chased insects. They went
eventually to the chopping block but,
while they lived, their lives were com-
paratively good.

Even the ﬁrst development of big-scale
poultry farms still gave the birds a rea-
sonably tolerable life. The huge poultry
farms that ﬁrst developed, for example,
in Rhode Island and in California,
raised the chickens on grassy pastures
until they were four or ﬁve months old
—ready to begin laying. Then they
moved the birds into huge laying houses.

Today, while many general farms con—
tinue to maintain ”family size” ﬂocks,
and many large producers still give their
pullets and young broilers a period on
“range,” the chickens of the biggest op-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 

At right, a new hatch of chic/es in a
large commercial hatchery. Center,
a laying battery, in which the hens
are conﬁned throughout their pro-
ductive lives. Below, the dressing
line in a typical mass-production
poultry slaughter house.

erators never set foot on grass or ground.
They are hatched in the drawers of huge
incubators and moved immediately to
the room where they will live out all
but the last few hours of their lives.

From then on a poultryman, if he is
to stay in business, can afford no con-
sideration whatever for the chickens. He
tries to keep them alive and healthy, he
tries to keep them growing and laying.
But it is utterly impossible for the poul-
try farmer to heed the sufferings of in-
dividual birds or even large numbers
of birds.

To clarify what this statement means,
let us follow through life of a chick des-
tined for a laying ﬂock on one of the
new-type poultry farms.

The chick will be hatched in a corn-
mercial hatchery—a plant that special-
izes in the production of a superior strain
of egg—producers. The hatchery may in—
cubate more than 3,000,000 chicks a
year. Some hatcheries are much larger.

Let’s say that the particular chick we
are following'is hatched in western New

(Continued on page 2])

 

 

Page 11

 




 

807617.

This story of a dog and a boy just turning man is condensed from a
new book, Of Men, Dogs and Horses, by James Charles Bendrodt, an
Australian. In his introduction to the book, the author says:

Once upon a time, there was a boy who owned a dog. This was a
long, long time ago, but as I remember it, the boy was never particular-
ly kind to him, and then he had a pony and he was not really gentle
with this little fellow either. But as the boy grew older, he began to
have a great regret that the values he was discovering in animals had
not been known to him in the ﬁrst place.

Then he realized that there were multitudes of human beings who
are casual or cruel to all four-footed creatures, because they have never
thought of them as ”persons.” Perhaps never really thought of them
at all! The boy decided to write a book, uniquely fashioned to plead
the cause of kindness to dumb creatures. It made no diﬂerence that he

 

 

 

 

knew nothing of the art of writing books, he still would try.
I was the boy who was not particularly kind to an old Newfound-

land dog and to a pony.
This is the book.

 

We think Review readers will like that sentiment, will like the story
of Butch, and will like the book from which it comes. It is published
by Greenberg Publishers, New York, who gave us permission to reprint.

HIS isn’t a pretty story. Right at
the start I think I ought to tell you

that. It is a tough kind of story
to write, and you may ﬁnd it a tough
kind of story to read, but now that I
warned you, you can take it or leave
it—that’s up to you.

I sat on a log in front of a hot camp-
ﬁre that served to keep the chill of the
snow away, and idly watched him trot
into camp behind his master, and with
him came, though I didn’t know it then,
the genesis of murderous hatreds and
desperate cruelty. He didn’t know, of
course, this little chap with his white-
slashed shirtfront and his thick, straight
ears, that because of him I would come
close to swinging from a beam with a
rope round my neck. He could not know
that the tall, wide-shouldered ﬁgure
walking along the trail in front of him
would lie broken and beaten in a forest
camp. He couldn’t know that he himself
Would die cruelly at savage hands, in
the midst of a desolate windfall, on

Page 12

a blazing summer day. How could he
know?

I suppose the thing that started it all
was that our cook had quit. There were
not many of us—two packers, a compass
man, a cook, and the head cruiser, a
man of sixty, called Casien. He was a
vain old man, with the temper of a
top sergeant and the appetite of a con-
norsseur.

"You the new cook?” Casien asked,

as the man with the dog at his heels,

swung into camp.

”Yes.”

uWell, then,” Casien said ﬂatly, ”I’ll
begin by telling you we don’t want any
damn dogs around here. We’ve got to
carry all the food we eat on our backs
in this job, and I’m not feeding any
dogs.”

“You’re the boss, I suppose?” the
new cook asked, and looked at the old
man and smiled. "Well,” he said, "you
can take him or leave him. It is a long
way in here, but it’s no longer by the

same trail out again. You care if we
stay overnight?”

”No,” the boss said sharply, ”but
you can get out in the morning,” and
that should have been the end of it,
and I wish it, had been, but it wasn’t.

He was a tall, wide-shouldered man,
this cook, about thirty I suppose, and a
hard customer by the look of him.
Thin-faced, with a jutting chin, eyes too
close together and bat ears too high on

his head. He tied the dog to a jackpine

and came over to the boss.

”Might as well cook your supper,”
he said. ”You have to pay me for my
time in and out, and it will give you
a chance to see what you’re missing.”
His thin upper lip lifted in a faint sneer.

The old man looked steadily at him,
and I could see the struggle going on
in his mind. Eventually he said, "OK,
you can cook supper, if you feel that
way about it, but I won’t change my
mind about your dog, you can bet on
that.” ’

I walked over to the dog, and squatted
down and put the tips of my ﬁngers on
the snow with the back of my hand
toward him, and talked softly. I heard
a step behind me crunch the snow, and
looked up.

The cook was standing there, and he
said in a hard voice, ”He’s a one-man
dog, kid, leave him alone. He gets
tough with strangers, he’s been taught
that way.”

uYes,” I said, and went on talking
softly to the dog. He was only a little
fellow, about thirty pounds in weight,
with a broad ﬁne head, and thick plumed
tail and a pair of full brown eyes. About
ﬁfteen months old, I thought, and as
harmless as a kitten. But he seemed
frightened to come to me, and then I
knew why, because I saw that while his
tail beat the snow gently his eyes kept
turning to his master.

"Leave him alone, kid,” the cook
said again, but it never occurred to me
to heed the menace in his voice. I just

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

went on talking softly to the dog. Per-
haps I ought not to have behaved like
that. After all, the dog belonged to
him, but I liked dogs, and this was
such a pretty puppy. I knew exactly
what was going on in the dog’s mind.
His master had trained him not to play
with strangers, but he wanted desper-
ately to play with me, and eventually
he took a couple of steps toward me
with his tail wagging, and then he
hurtled sideways on the toe of his
master’s, boot, and lay with his head
between his paws and yelped with pain.

I got slowly to my feet, and the cook
said angrily, "You leave that dog alone,
kid. He don’t like strangers.”

I stood for a long time under the
heavy snow-laden branches in the white
darkness, and studied this man in the
red glow of the fire. I was seventeen,
but a very mature and experienced sev-
enteen.

I had been born in these northlands,
and I’d come up the hard way. I knew
it was up to me to study this cook well.
A hundred and eighty pounds of brawl-
ing Northwoods camp cook, with a
mean, tough face, and a swollen head.
Heavy caulked boots that he would use
mercilessly. Knees and elbows and dirty
tricks.

But he could cook. I’ll say he could!
I watched the old man appreciate the
tender bacon, the fragrant beans and
the golden-brown biscuits, staples of
a timber-cruiser’s diet. They are pretty
hard to eat three times a day, every day,
unless an artist handles them. I watched
Casien with some amusement.

So when, in the snowy dark of the
winter morning that followed, I saw the
cook preparing breakfast and after-
wards making up the lunches of the old
man and the compass man, who would
eat it far from camp at noon, I knew
the old chap’s appetite had wiped out
his objection to the dog. It was a pity.

When I had eaten my breakfast I
made my pack up, swung the seventy
pounds of parcelled food to my
shoulders, adjusted the pack—straps, and
passed by the dog still tied to the jack-
pine. Then I stopped and turned to the
cook, who would not move from camp
for the days it took me and my Indian
companion to carry the stores of food

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

and camp gear to the next camp site, and
said, "Going to keep him tied up all
day?”

The cook looked up from his pots
and pans and asked, "What’s it to
you, kid?”

"Nothing,” I said, "except that he
can come for a run with me. I’ll bring
him back at noon.” I saw an angry frown
crease his forehead.

"You leave the damn dog alone,

, sonny,” he told me. ”I’ll give him any

exercise he needs.”

I didn’t answer. I’d seen the dog’s
tail beat the snow at the sound of my
voice, and I suppose the cook had seen
it, too.

We had venison steaks that night for
dinner—venison steaks fried in bacon
fat, with rich brown gravy and hot
biscuits, and the old man licked his
chops and sighed. Half-way through the
meal I remembered that I had not seen
anyone feed the dog, so I put aside a
thick rich steak, and when the meal was
over I got up and walked over to the
jackpine to which he was
still tied, and held the steak
out to him. His brown eyes
lit up at the sight of it,
and he took two or three
quick steps toward me be-
fore his master’kicked him,
howling, yards away. I had
squatted down to give the
dog the meat and now, as
I stood up, the cook tow-
ered over me, and his tough
face, with its 'close-set eyes and high
bat ears, was pale with rage.

"NOW listen, kid,” he grated, ”that’s
three times in one day I’ve told you to
leave that dog alone. Next time I won’t
talk about it, I’ll kick the living day-
lights outa you.”

”Yes?” I said, and I know my eyes
never left his. "Well, why don’t you
feed your damn dog?” ’ Then the ﬂam-
ing rage that has always possessed me
when I see cruelty to dumb creatures,
took hold of me. ”And I’m telling you
something else—the next time you kick
that dog, I’ll knock those yellow teeth
of yours clean down your throat, as sure

as hell.”

Well, there was the challenge. No
man such as he was could fail to take
it up in ordinary circumstances, but

 

there was an element in this situation
that held him frozen in his tracks. His

primitive brain could not have analysed ‘

it, but sheer incredulity held-him help-
less. Here was a kid, a strong kid cer-
tainly, but still a boy, thirty pounds
lighter, inches shorter, only a bit more
than half his age, making ﬁghting talk
to him. A sort of helpless astonishment
wiped the anger from his face, and his
thin-lipped mouth fell open.

Then a hand like an iron vice gripped
my shoulder and swung me nearly off
my feet, and the old man said sharply,
turned on the cook. "Now, listen, you,”
he said. "I’ve heard of you before.
You’re a pretty bucko by all accounts.
Well, I don’t want any of your rough-
house tricks around this camp. You’ve
got quite a reputation around these
parts, but the ﬁrst time you start on
jim, I’ll take a hand myself.”

”Yeah?” the cook sneered. ”Well,
you tell your damn mother’s boy to
leave that dog alone,” and he walked
away.

I’ve often thought that the show-
down would have come a
lot earlier than it did if I
hadn’t had a gun. I owned
a graceful old frontier mod-
el, a Smith and Wesson .32.
Men in the Northwoods
hardly ever packed a gun.
I could not tell you why
I packed a gun. My father
gave it to me when I was
ten years old. It was just a
toy that I had practiced with,
mostly on things that did not live.

I remember that I had returned to
camp from my morning’s pack, and
before setting out with my burden for
the afternoon, I sat on a stump and
ate my lunch. The cook was the only
other person there, but we didn’t talk.
As I sat and munched my bread and
beans, a crOw alighted on a nearby
branch perhaps twenty. feet away from
me. I hated crows because they are

cruel killers. I drew my .32 with a '

minimum of movement and shot twice.
The bird fell and never moved.

The cook said with what was evi-
dently some astonishment, ”By God,
kid, you’re handy with that gun!”

I turned my head and looked at him.
”Yes, I’m pretty handy.”

(Continued on page 22)

Page 13

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~Clayt Scagcars in New York State Conservationist

Page 14

  

By JOHN LAIDLAW

HE encyclopedia in our living
I tells me that Sippunk’s full name

is Sippunk T amias Striatus. I
don’t believe it. Sippunk isn’t big
enough, by half, to support a name even
half that imposing. The encyclopedists,
of course, didn’t know about the Sip-
punk part of the name. The men who
wrote the encyclopedia just called him
Tammi Striatm. The Sippunk was in-
vented by ]erry. Jerry and Mary and I
love Sippunk very clearly.

Maybe I’d better start over. Perform
some introductions, so to speak.

Sippunk is a chipmunk that lives in
and around a low stone wall that en-
circles part of our ﬂower garden. jerry is
my son, aged three going on four. Mary
is his mother. We live in a commuters’
village north of New York City. Mary
and I moved there just before jerry was
born so that he would be able to grow
up where once in a while he could see
a growing ﬂower and a bird and play
in green grass. We never dared hope
that there would be wildlife beyond
robins and chickadees. But there is,

wonder of wonderswwand that’s Sip~
punk. Sippunk has taught me more
about nature in one year than high
school and college biology classes
crammed into me in many years.

We met Sippunk one june evening
when, after dinner, we sat down for a
restful few minutes before Mary would
take Jerry off to bed. That is to say,
Mary and I sat down while IEII‘Y
lurched adventurously on expeditions

into the lilac bush, around the house .

corner, and under our chairs. I was just
about to call jerry away from an at-
tempt to climb the little stone wall——
about 24 inches high—when I saw Sip-
punk. ]erry saw him at the same time.

Jerry was immobilized——a rare con-
dition. He and the chipmunk faced each
other, their eyes approximately level
with each other, at a distance of about
two feet. Both little animals were Ob-
viously astonished; neither shoWed evi—
dence of alarm.

It was the first time in my life that
I had got a close-up of a chipmunk,
although once or twice before, while

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

indie?

 

 




 

 

 

on weekend vacations from the big city,
‘ I had glimpsed one. I made the most
of the opportunity to look.

I would guess that the chippie was

no more than eight inches long, making
a generous allowance for his comical
little two-inch tail, which was sticking
straight up from his back and be-
Witchingly twitching.
In full ﬁghting trim
Sippunk wouldn’t have
scaled in at more than
three ounces. But he
was a vigorous char-
acter, and the quality
showed. His upper body '
was a chestnut brown, with ﬁve or six
black and white stripes running down
his back, from nose to tail. Underneath,
the gay chestnut coat merged into a
creamy white. His nose and head, I
thought, looked like those of a par-
ticularly alert squirrel.

Oh, he was gay!

Jerry broke the spell, which had
lasted as long as 15 paralyzed seconds.
With a squeal of delight, Jerry leaned
over the stone wall and reached for the

chipmunk. With a still shriller squeak,‘

the chipmunk dived headlong into a
scarcely noticeable crevice in the wall
and disappeared.

Jerry stared a moment and burst into
indignant tears. Mary and I burst into
laughter. -

Mary gathered up our pride and joy
and I tried to explain.

”That was a chipmunk, old man,” I
said. uChipmunk!”

”Sippunk,” said Jerry.

And that is how we met Sippunk and
named him.

In the 15 months since the introduc-
' tion we have become intimate friends
with Sippunk. It would be small exag-
geration to say that we have become rel-
atives. At any rate, Sippunk is part of
the family.

Once we knew where to look, we saw
Sippunk often. At all hours of the day
and evening, except around noon on
very hot days, our little neighbor
scampered busily up and down the
length of the stone wall and around the
adjoining lawn, his ﬂat two-inch tail
always perkily aloft. and every move-
ment of the tiny» body expressing vast
nervous energy.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

Mary and Jerry developed a cam-
paign, renewed each day after Jerry’s
nap, to see how close they could get to
Sippunk before he said "chip-chip—chip-
chir-r—r~r” and dived into the nearest
cranny in the wall. I got a full report
on the triumphs and defeats every eve-
ning when I got home.

Sometimes it was
very exasperating, I
gathered. The chippie
seemed to spend most
of his time hunting for
food and eating it. This
kept him in almost con-
stant motion. We dis-
covered that he ate wintergreen berries,
cherries, raspberries, and mushrooms.
One day Sippunk climbed some 50 feet,
to the topmost branches of our elm tree,
and feasted on the elm seeds. We
thought he was a vegetarian until we dis-
covered him neatly shelling June bugs
out of their armor-like sheath and hap-
pily munching the fat bodies.

Mary found, by trial and error, that
Sippunk would abandon almost any
other food to raid a little pile of Grape-
Nuts left on a ﬂat stone on his wall.
Sippunk would watch, from a few
yards away, the Grape-Nuts being
poured onto the stone. He would wait,
chipping fussily, until Mary and Jerry
backed oﬁ‘ to what seemed to him to be
a safe distance. Then he would scamper
to the feast.

In his first few seconds of a Grape-
Nuts jag, Sippunk always muched
voraciously. But, when his appetite was
momentarily sated, he showed provi-
dence. With a weather eye on the human
onlookers, he would stuff his cheeks
until they bulged into full hemispheres,
then dart down the wall and disappear.
Inside 30'seconds he would be back, his
cheeks empty, and get a re-fill. No mat-
ter what quantity of Grape-Nuts Mary
and Jerry poured out, Sippunk took
them all. One Saturday afternoon I
poured out an entire boxfull—enough to
provide breakfast portions for me for
a week. Sippunk carted away the whole
heap in less than an hour and then went
hunting seeds again.

Since Mary and I were the kind of
parents who consulted a ﬁve-foot shelf
of books in the process of raising a child,

we naturally turned to books to ﬁnd out.

some of the things about Sippunk that

intrigued us~-——for example, what did he
do with box after box of Grape-Nuts.

We had supposed that Sippunk lived
somewhere inside the stone wall. The
books told us that it was more likely
that he had an underground home that
began with a hole hidden under one of
the wall’s stones.

A chipmunk, we learned,. begins
construction of a home by digging
straight down in the earth for four or
ﬁve inches. Then it moderates the tun- .
nel’s slope but it keeps going down to
a depth of about three feet. The shaft
is about two inches in diameter. Then
chippie begins to open up ”rooms.”
These are chambers that may be a foot
square by six inches high. The chipmunk
may build two, three, or four bedrooms
and, at the very bottom of his tunnels,
a toilet room.

As he digs, the chippie pushes the
dirt behind him. When a quantity ac-
cumulates, he turns around and pushes
it through the tunnel and out the door.
He spreads most of it over a consider-
able area. Usually he brings his tunnel
to the earth’s surface again, at some
distance from its beginning. The new
hole, being excavated from within, is
neat and inconspicuous. Then chippie
runs back to the ﬁrst entrance and packs
it full of excavated earth. The ﬁrst rain
wipes out all sign that there a home
was begun.

All this we learned from the books
because, watch as we would, never did
we ﬁnd the door to Sippunk’s home and
never, of course, could we have seen the
inner corridors and rooms. But the book
cleared up the mystery of the disappear-
ing Grape-Nuts.

The Chipmunk is what might be called
a semi-hibernator. ’He doesn’t go into
a winter-long coma, like the woodchuck,
but he likes to spend winter days on a
bed of leaves and grass down below the
frost line and he likes to have food‘
handy when he wakes frOm a two or
three-day nap. So, very practically, all.
summer and fall he collects seeds, nuts—
and Grape-Nuts if offered—and caches
them under his bed. He has then only
to uncurl from a snooze, scrabble a bit
in the bedding, and start eating.

This knowledge prepared us for the
time, along in October, when neither
Grape-Nuts, nor acorns gathered by
Jerry from a neighbor’s lawn, nor even

Page 15

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sliced apples would bring Sippunk into
sight. Jerry grieved and I think Mary
did, too. I missed the little sprite my-
self.

“He’ll show up on some of the sunny
days,” Mary said, bolstered by the en-
cycopedia. But the weeks slid into No-
vember and then December with no
sight of- Sippunk and we began to fear
that perhaps a cat had caught up with
the resident of the stone wall.

Then, on a Sunday just before Christ-
mas, when the night had produced the
season’s ﬁrst snow and the morning had
brought sunshine, I took Jerry out for
an introduction to his ﬁrst sled. I was
the horse, of course, with Jerry shouting
happy demands to "run, run, run.” Sud-
denly Jerry’s tone and words rose to a
new crescendo and I realized that he
was squealing "Sippunk, Sippunk, Sip-
punk?’

Sure enough, there was Sippunk, erect
as a post on a ﬂat stone from which the
sun had already melted the snow. He
let Jerry and me walk to within three
feet of him before he "chirr-r-r-ed” and
dropped out of sight.

After that, we worried no more about
Sippunk.

We saw him again in late February,
or perhaps it was early March. Mary
spotted him. And with him was another
chipmunk. We decided quickly that this
was Mrs. Sippunk. Where she came
from, we never knew.

It was noticeable that, even after the
long winter, Sippunk recognized us as
friends. It was easy to walk within two
or three feet of him as he sat, twitching
every muscle and chipping shrilly, on
the wall. But Mrs. Sippunk would have
none of us. At every approach she
would'shout ”chir-r-r-r” and scamper
for cover. '

In April Mrs. Sippunk was missing
and, with the aid of our books, we con-
cuded that .Sippunk had become a
father. The books told us that, some-
where down in the ground under the
wall, there probably were ﬁve or six
blind, hairless youngsters, about as big
as Jerry’s thumb. We told Jerry what
we guessed had happened and he joined
us in watching the. wall daily for ”baby
Sippunks.”

In May the babies showed themselves.
By that time they had full coats of hair
and were undersized replicas of their

Page 16

parents. If anything, they were even
more nervous and ”chippier” than their
elders. The stone was a busy playground
and highway from morning until late
afternoon. .

A temporary coldness developed be-
tween the two families when Mary dis-
covered Sippunk digging up her iris
roots and boldly eating them, obviously
with no more feeling of guilt than was
elicited by a meal of Grape-Nuts. There
was another period of even greater strain
when, in June, we all horriﬁedly saw
one of the nearly full-grown baby chip-
munks seize a ﬂedgling song sparrow
from its nest and, before we could even
shriek, gobble it down.

It took the greatest ﬂights of philos-
ophy and psychology of which Mary and
I were capable to relieve Jerry of the
tornadic conviction that ”Sippunk bad,
bad!” We had to do quite a bit of tus-
sling with our own reasoning and toler-
ance of nature’s inscrutable ways before
we got anywhere with Jerry.

Things smoothed out, however, and
we overlooked the faults of the Sippunk
family and remained friends. Probably
the Sippunks overlooked faults in us,
too. I often wondered what they thought
of us. I don’t think I’d want to know,
though.

In July the young chipmunks began to
disappear, one by one. The law of na-
ture’s aVerages indicated that probably
some died. Some might have been caught
by a blacksnake that we once saw on the
wall. Some may have run afoul of a cat.
But, in any event, by the end of July it
was time, in chipmunk chronology, for
the youngsters to get out and hustle their
own livelihoods.

Mrs. Sippunk stayed. Mary and Jerry
made friends with her as they. had with
her husband, though she never showed
a passion for Grape-Nuts. Mrs. Sip-
punk preferred mixed bird—seed which
had been left over when the birds in
spring deserted our winter feeding sta—
tion. Her great love was white grapes.

. She ﬁnally came to the point of eating

grapes from Jerry’s ﬁngers, so much did
she adore the fruit.

It is now October again. We have
helped Mr. and Mrs. Sippunk ﬁll their
storerooms to what must be bursting
point. In one day, last week, they carried
two 9214”: of walnuts away from the
back doorstep. Jerry can now say chip-

 

munk but we allstill say Sippunk. To us,
the Sippunks are old friends. They are
individuals, with characters we under-
stand. We know their. frights and
foibles. We have caught them in sin and
then found a ground for liking them
anyway. We grant them a title to resi-
dence on the property that is as valid as
ours. My knowledge that the Sippunks
are well housed against the impending
winter and well stocked with food gives
me the same comfortable feeling that I
get from my own ﬁlled coal-bin and the
just-repaired house roof.
All’s well!

 

I suppose that somewhere in my sub-
conscious I must feel that there is a
moral in this unimportant tale of our
acquaintance with a few chipmunks or
I wouldn’t be making my ﬁrst sally at
writing a magazine article. I’m not quite
sure what the moral is. Wiser and abler
people have studied chipmunks. But
maybe that’s the point. Mary and Jerry
and I didn’t ”study chipmunks.” We
just got dew/aimed with some particular
chipmunks. And we came to like them
and respect them. We think they also
like us. Mary and I think that maybe
the Sippunks have justiﬁed, all by them-
selves, our move to the suburbs. Or do

we have the wrong slant on how to raise
a child?

A
v

Ulster Opposes Seizure

Members of the Ulster County
(Kingston, N.Y.) SPCA voted at their
quarterly meeting in july to request
their ofﬁcers to publicize the fact that
the society is opposed to pound seizure
legislation and New York’s Metcalf-
Hatch Act in particular. As a result,
Society Vice-President Edgar H. Bau- "A
man voiced the society’s viewpoint
several times on a radio program that
he conducts and the membership resolu-
tion was reported in local newspapers.

A
v'

PHOTO CONTEST CLOSED

The new annual photography con-
test, in which The Review asks con-_
testants to say "Kindness” with a pic—
ture, closed on August 29. More than
800 entries were received. The judges
now are at work. Winners will be an-
nounced in the October issue of T196
Review.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952




 

Last Ca 1]
for the

CONVENTION

interesting and most enjoyable
convention of the American Hu-
mane Association!

The great annual meeting of Ameri-
can humanitarians, the seventy-sixth
since the AHA was organized, will con-
vene in the Statler Hotel in Boston at
1:30 pm. on Monday, October 6. It
will continue through October 9 and
every session of the four days will offer
help and inspiration to humane workers.
Directors of the AHA for the coming
year will be elected at the meeting on
Monday morning.

The Convention hosts—~the directors,
ofﬁcers, and members of the Animal
Rescue League of Boston, the Massa-

LAST call for the biggest, best, most

chusetts SPCA, and the Massachusetts

SPCC—also promise that they and the
city of Boston will provide plenty of
Opportunity for delegates and AHA
members to enjoy themselves. The clos—
ing event of the convention will be a
bus tour of Lexington, Concord, and
other historic spots in and around Bos-
ton.

Practical problems that regularly con-
front humane workers everywhere are
the theme of the convention program.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

President Kerns Wright and Executive
Director Mel L. Morse will open the
program with their ﬁrst reports in their
present capacities to a national conven-
tion. The keynote address of the con-
vention will come from Charles W.
Friedrichs, Secretary of the San Fran-
cisco SPCA and of the AHA.

On the same day the convention will
get right down to consideration of prob-
lems of humane animal shelter opera-
tion.

Tuesday will have some of the quali-
ties of a three-ring circus. J. J. Shaffer,
Managing Director of the Anti-Cruelty
Society of Chicago, .will preside over a
panel discussion of the role and duties
of Humane Agents under various cir-
cumstances. Simultaneously, there will
be a panel discussion of problems of
Child Protection under the gavel of
Robert M. Mulford, General Secretary
of the Massachusetts SPCC. Speakers
will include some of the most outstand-
ing authorities of the country. In the
afternoon the staff of the Massachusetts
SPCC 'will present a dramatization of
a typical case problem in child-protec-
tion work. While the social drama is
being presented to delegates concerned

with child protection another panel of
experts will be discussing problems of

getting good public relations for indi-

vidual humane societies and the whole
humane movement. Fred Myers, editor
of T/ye Review, will preside.

There will be a bus trip, on Tuesday ,

(afternoon, to the beautiful shelter for

children operated by the MSPCC.

Directors of the _AHA will hold
their annual meeting during the lunch-
eon recess on Tuesday and there also
will be luncheon meetings of the Mid-
west Humane Conference, the New
England and ‘Massachusetts Federation
of Humane Societies, and possibly other
regional groups.

At 9:30 a.m. on Wednesday dele-
gates ‘are invited to attend a special
performance of the famous marionettes
of the Animal Rescue League of Bos-V
ton, presented to an assembly of chil-
dren in a near-by school; An hour later,
President Robert J. Chenoweth of Way-
side Waifs of Kansas City, Mo., will
begin to lead a new panel of speakers
through a discussion of a variety of
important humane topics.

Lunch on Wednesday will be a buffet
at the home of Carlton B. Buttrick,
President of the Animal Rescue League, ‘
near the League’s beautiful rest farm
for horses and its lovely Pet Cemetery.
In the afternoon the MSPCA will hold
a reception for delegates and AHA
members and take them on a tour of
famous Angell Memorial Hospital.

The annual banquet will be held in
the Statler ballroom on Wednesday eve-
ning.

Thursday morning will be devoted to
an open forum, under the chairmanship
of Tom Justice, General Manager of
the Humane Society of the City of
Columbus, Ohio. The Resolutions Com-
mittees will present their reports and
the convention will act upon them.'
The bus tour of scenic and historic spots
will follow.

An AHA contract with the Statler
Hotel requires the hotel to provide
rooms for all members and delegates
who make reservations before September
20—but not after that date. The Statler
customarily sells out all of its accommo-
dations, so reservations should be made
in advance.

See you in Boston October 6!

J

Page 17

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Trap Inventors Beat Path
To AHA $10,000 Door

offer by the American Humane

Association of a $10,000 reward
for invention of. a commercially accept-
able humane trap for small animals
brought down the house, so to speak,
on the heads of Mel L. Morse, AHA
Executive Director, and Lester A. Giles,
Jr., Director of the Wildlife Depart-
ment.

ANNOUNCEMENT in ’Ju1y of the

There was an intimation of what was
to come when, less than eight hours
after the prize announcement appeared
in newspapers and on radio broadcasts
throughout the country, an excited trap
inventor telephoned Mr. Morse—who
at that moment was at dinner in his
home in Albany, N.Y.———from Great
Bend, Mont. 1

"I’ve got it! I’ve got it! I’ve got the
trap you want!” the telephoner shouted.
It took Mr. Morse 15 minutes to calm
the man and persuade him that nothing
would be lost if he sent a working model
of his invention to Mr. Giles for testing
and analysis by a committee of expert

 

judges.

At 8:30 am, on the next day the
AHA telephones went into a mild.
frenzy. Mr. Morse and Mr. Giles re-
ceived calls, in quick succession, from
inventors—and several lawyers repre-
senting inventors—in Ontario, Maine,
West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Western
Union brought many more announce-
ments that trap
models already
were in the mails
and several urgent
requests for details
of the contest rules.

And then the
mail started com—
ingl

And then the
traps!

Big traps, little
traps, good traps,
and impossible
Rube Goldberg
contraptions — the
traps and the corre-

Patricia Arceneanx, secretary in the AHA Wildlife Department, is bringing a

new batch of trap contest entries to Lester A. Giles, ]r., department Director,
whose des/e already is full of them. Giles is groggy hut game.

Page 18

 

spondence overwhelmed Mr. Giles and
overflowed from his office.

In 30 days Mr. Giles, serving as
chairman of a committee of judges that
will appraise all traps entered, had re
ceived more than 100 wmking models
of traps whose inventors thought they
might be worth $10,000. He also had
received more than 1,000 letters, post-
cards, telegrams, and telephone calls,
presaging more traps.

Entries already have been received
from Great Britain, Germany, France,
and Malaya, as well. as from all parts
of the United States and Canada.

The announcement that started all

 

Katharine W. Bryan, Executive Sec-
retary of the Defenders of Fur-
hearers, visited Albany to oﬂer co-
operation.

this furore was simple, although de-
signedly highly attractive to inventors.

The American Humane Association,
the announcement said, offers a reward
Of $10,000 for a humane trap, com-
mercially acceptable as a replacement
for the traps now commonly used by
fur-hunters and other commercial trap-
pers. To win the reward, a trap must
either hold an animal unharmed or
kill it instantly. The American Humane
Association and other humane groups
here and abroad have long regarded
small-animal trapping as one of the
worst cruelties that civilized society
still tacitly approves. Many millionsof
animals are caught- every year in the
brutal leg traps still most often used.
The blow of the serrated trap-jawS

(Continued on page 24)

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW~SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 




 

 

 

 

LETTERS

from

READERS

ITHACA, N.Y.
Editor:

I could hardly believe what I read
in your July article about cruelties and
the lack of sanitary inspection in the
small, rural. slaughter: houses that one
sees so commonly around this state. In
fact, I didn't fully believe it even when
I read it. I have done some checking,
however, and I ﬁnd that your report
is conservative rather than exaggerated.
I’d say, in the light of what your article
revealed and what I’ve learned subse—
quently, that every housewife in New
York State ought to be clamoring for
a much more stringent inspection pro~
gram—purely for the protection of the
health of her family. And every hu-
manitarian ought to be shouting twice as
loud for extension of humane laws to
80Vern these slaughter houses—and for
enforcement machinery to make the laws
effective. I'm glad you published that
report.

MARY ELLEN RIGGS

 

MOBILE, ALA.
Editor:

. if you think conditions in the
kind of country slaughter houses you
described are bad, you ought to see
hOW some farmers around here do their
own killing of meat animals. I sell
lightning rods to farmers and so I
get around a lot. Some of the things

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

I’ve seen people do to animals have
made me sick—and I mean physically
sick. We sure need some humane edu-
cation!

R. R. LARSON

 

NEWBURGH, N.Y.
Editor:

After reading your article, “What
Have You Done” in your July issue
of the National Humane Review, would
say I think in order to meet the most
people, especially in the slaughtering
article and the rodeo article, would be
for you to print circulars or leaﬂets
that we societies could pass on to folk
who never see or read the Humane
Review and thereby contact people who
never hear about such things, nor do
they ever even think about them.

I know from my own experience I
have written articles from time to time
for newspapers to put in their columns
——but do they do it? Some yes, more no.
And especially when we all got together
to ﬁght this ”Metcalf—Hatch Bill” what
happened? We ‘were called crackpots
and other names. Also, I think it should
be brought before the animal lovers
before election for us not to vote for
Dewey, Wicks or Heck and all the
other gang that are all for these vicious
actions.

Indeed, I, myself, would welcome
gladly something on "What To Do.”

I have been ﬁghting these causes all
my life‘ and today it seems to be worse
than ever. Man is cruel and will sell
himself for a few dollars.

In reference to cats killing birds, how
about the men and boys every year in
hunting season going out and shooting
every thing in sight. They do more
damage than all the cats in the country.

MRS. E. J. FORD

 

LOS ANGELES, CALIF.
Editor:

Because of your article a few num-
bers ago about the cruelty of rodeos—
of which I had never thought, having
been, out here, practically brought up
on them—I contacted our local S.P.C.A.,
and sent them a petition signed by about
ﬁfty, asking them to see 'that no cruelty
is practiced at the forthcoming Sheriffs’
Rodeo, to be held here next month. They
assure me they will take care of the
matter.

GRACE KINGSLEY

 

DAMARISCOTTA, ME.
Editor:

Why don’t you do an article, some
time, about these stupid and brutal ﬁsh-
ing ”derbies?” Every year, in various
parts of the United States and Canada,
there are hundreds of so-called sporting
contests which consist of trying to catch
the biggest ﬁsh in a particular compe-
tition. Millions of ﬁsh, from the beauti-
ful little blue-gills to the giant marlin
and tuna, are sacriﬁced annually in these
mis-named contests. The contestants
don’t want the ﬁsh, and they don’t use
the ﬁsh. The contests call for very little,
if any, skill. If a big ﬁsh bites, it’s
largely pure luck. The contestants are
merely annoyed and angered by catch-
ing any ﬁsh smaller than a potential
winner. They tear the small ﬁsh from
their tackle and throw them back,
usually so mutilated that they must die. .
The only plausible justiﬁcations of ﬁsh-
ing that I can see are: (1) if food is
needed; (2) if the ﬁshing is incidental
to an enjoyment of the out-of—doors;
(3) if, in some obscure way, there is
psychological beneﬁt from a stimulat-
ing contest between ﬁsh and ﬁsherman.
The ﬁshing "derby” has none of these
justiﬁcations. In such a contest, the
competition 15 among men. The same

effect could be achieved by having the

Page 19

 

 

 




 

 

men play golf or even just match coins.

Why don’t you tell the public some-
thing about this seamier side of the
”sporting” world and do something to

s ' D
“OP lt' HELEN WORMSER

 

CAPE GIRARDEAU, MO.
Editor:

It has often occured to me, while
reading The National Hnmane Review,
that there should also be a humane
magazine for children. The Review,
properly and unavoidably, is edited for
adults. Incidentally, I join many others
in thinking that it is excellently edited.
If it reached every home in America,
our battle would be 90 per cent‘won.
But I doubt that The Review ever will
get’ into even a decent fraction of
American homes whereas I think that
an equallngood magazine edited for
children of elementary school ages might
do so.

There are, of course, several national
magazines aimed at children that make
more or less of a specialty of ”nature.”
None of these, however, is concerned
primarily or even greatly with humani-
tarianism. They seem to be only inter-
ested in imparting ”information.” I
believe that if a really good "nature”
magazine were edited from the humane
point of view, it would intensely interest
children and would win enthusiastic

' support from their parents and teachers.

Why doesn’t the American Humane
Association try it?

MRS. JOHN E. BARLOW
(We’d love to try it. We agree with yon
that there prohahly it hath a need and
a marhet for such a magazine. What
.rtopr $15 if a little matter of money/—
Editor.)

 

WASHINGTON, D.C.
Editor:

As a worker of many years duration
in the humane movement and as Presi-
dent of the National, State and County
organizations listed below, I would like
to extend my sincere appreciation for
the profound change in the nature and
character of The National Hnmane Re-
view and the articles appearing therein.
It was my recent privilege and pleasure
to meet for the ﬁrst time Mr. Mel Morse
at a humane gathering in Alexandria,
Virginia, and it is my sincere hope that
I may have the opportunity to shake

Page 20

the hand of Larry Andrews as a kindred
spirit whose ideals, views and fearless-
ness in opposing all forms of cruelty
are synonymous with my own.

At the same time I would like to
take very deﬁnite exception to Senator
Mosher’s article in the June issue of
your magazine. The Senator seems to
be either wholly misinformed as re-
gards the facts pertaining to cruelty or
is intentionally repeating what the pro-
ponents of pound-bill legislation have
told him without giving like considera-
tion to the irrefutable factual evidence
of the opposition. For instance, regard-
ing the cruelty angle Senator Mosher
states: “Investigation convinced me that
the modern methods of vivisection and
the care and handling of dogs by re-
sponsible schools and laboratories is
indeed humane.” As is usually the case,
proponents of this legislation apparently
showed Senator Mosher exactly what
they wanted him to see and nothing
more.

I consider Senator Mosher’s state-
ments regarding lack of cruelty both
unfair and misleading as they will tend
to lull many people into a sense of
apathy (which of course is exactly what
the opposition wishes) regarding pound
bill legislation. Such people are wholly
uninformed and will not make the
necessary effort to ascertain the shock-
ing facts.

DELOS E. CULVER, Prerident
Defender; of Fnrhearerr

 

 

PORTSMOUTH, VA.

Editor:

. . I just hope that part of my
small membership dues is being used in
that humane trap contest. I’d like to feel
that I was having a part, even that little,
in ending the horrible suffering that
millions of animals have endured and
still must endure in the terrible traps
that fur-hunters use. I’ve almost always
lived where the neighboring farm boys
made a business of trapping muskrats
every winter. I’ve seen what those sharp-
toothed, rusty jaws do to the animals.
When I was a little girl I used to cry
about it. I still feel the same way. . .

MARY ELIZABETH PROCTOR
BUSY MAN!

A recent monthly report of the Hu—
mane Society of Lackawanna County
(Penna) indicates that there are easier
jobs (for example, that of the tradi-
tional one-armed paper-hanger) than
that of a Humane Ofﬁcer. The Lacka-
wanna Society has just one Ofﬁcer, Arrie
Blanken. Mr. Blanken takes care of the
society shelter and all animals in it. In
addition, in one month he answered 328
calls throughout the county. Of these
calls, 104 were for animal rescues or
were emergency cases. There were ﬁve
dogs with broken legs, one poisoned,
two with broken backs. The cats rescued
included one that had been shot, one
with a knife wound in its neck, and four
that were marooned in high trees.

 

 

WANTED:

More kennel operators and dog trainers . . . to discover
the nutritional benefits of Ken-L-Meal

30-day test feeding will prove, beyond a doubt, that Ken-L-Meal is tOps in provid—
ing dogs Wlth complete and appetizing nutrition. This is the famous 30-day test
that professronals all over the country have made and praised.

Guaranteed results! Every bag of Ken-L-Meal is guaranteed on a money-back
baSIS. If you are not satisﬁed with the way it improves your dogs’ health, appear-

tion of vitamins.

 

ance, stamina . . . you get your money back.

Tops in nutrition and appetite appeal! Ken-L-Meal contains all
the rich, life-giving proteins, minerals, and other nutrients
essential to top dog health. Mixes fast and easy because it
absorbs water almost instantly. Note the golden green tint.
This is due to chlorophyll in Nurgenemnature’s rich combina-

lnterested in control of offensive dog odors? If SO, you Will be
glad to know that Ken-L-Meal now contains odor-ending
chlorophyllin. Tests show the natural breeding habits of dogs
are in no way affected by this chlorophyllin content. For ﬁrst-
hand details write: Ken-L-Products Division, The Quaker Oats
C0., Box 5339, Chicago, Ill.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 

 




 

 

 

Chickens

(Continued from page 11)

York state in early December.

Within four or ﬁve hours after the
hatch is completed—with many thOu-
sands of the yellow or black balls of
down pecking their way out of eggs
simultaneously—cur chick is packed
tightly in a ﬂat cardboard carton with
103 other fragile bits of life. The male
and female chicks already have been
separated. Since our chick is headed for
the farm of an egg-producer, all the
chicks in the box are pullets.

By no means all of the eggs put into
the incubator 21 days earlier have suc—
cessfully hatched. Some eggs were
sterile. For various reasons, the em-
bryos in others failed to develop prop-
erly. Some chicks are deformed, some
lack the vitality that is the boast of the
hatchery.

While our chick is being ”sexed” and
packed into its carton, the unhatched
eggs and the sub-standard chicks are be-
ing unceremoniously cleaned out of the
incubator and the hatchery. Some hatch-
eries have crude gas chambers into which
they shovel or throw deformed, injured,
or sub-par chicks to be killed. Some
merely pile them up and let them die.

I have been present at a hatchery
when a large heap of supposedly dead
chicks and unhatched eggs were being
shoveled into an incinerator. Some of
the chicks were still moving and there
were signs of life within some of the
unbroken eggs.

Within eight hours after hatching,
our chick and perhaps 10,000 other
chicks are loaded on a truck and are on
their way to the farm, perhaps 125 miles
away in eastern New York, where they
are to live.

The farm has a two—story laying house
With a capacity of 10,000 birds. That is,
the owner has ﬁgured that the point of
maximum proﬁt is reached when 10,000
birds are crowded into the house. Lay-
ing houses holding 25,000 birds are to-
day not uncommon. When the newly ar-
rived chicks are taken from their hatchery
boxes and dropped on the ﬂoor they
have approximately 2.5 square feet per
bird, While they are chicks, that’s not
tOO bad. By the time they are ﬁve
months old they will be shoving, peck—

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

ing, and trampling on each other
through 14 or 15 hours of every day in
their efforts to get to and from feed
and water.

The 10,000 chicks will leave this
room only when the time comes for
them to die—or when they have already
died.

It might be said that, from a certain
point of view, these layers are well treat-
ed. Certainly their owner worries con-
stantly about their health and growth.
He checks the heating system several
times daily. He measures out scientiﬁ-
cally planned food in scientiﬁcally de-
termined quantities. He vaccinates and
immunizes every one of the 10,000 for
bronchitis, Newcastle disease, fowl pox.
He watches anxiously for the signs of
the leucosis complex and pullorum.

But the farmer’s worries are about

 

The 10,000 chic/es, now 11 months old, are on their way to market.

dollars, not the little living things that
are running around the huge laying-
house ﬂoor. He is not (he cannot be)
concerned with suffering and death as
he would be if his pet collie or the fam-
ily cat were sick or injured. In the
chicken house, the farmer treats disease,
injury, and death as items on a chart
that he keeps hanging on a wall. He
picks up the fairly frequent dead chicken
from the ﬂoor, throws it into a covered
pit maintained for that purpose, and
makes an entry in his books.

The pullets are over-crowded. As they
grow, they have hardly room to move.
Partly as a result, the chickens kill each
other in an outbreak of revolting ‘_'live
cannibalism.” Fully half of the chickens
in the room, by the time they are ﬁve
months old, have naked backs, many of
them bleeding from the pecks of ir-
ritable companions. Others have holes

Page 21

 

 

 




 

eaten through the living ﬂesh until the
internal organs show.

The farmer has all of this carefully
ﬁgured out in dollars and cents. Each
square foot of ﬂoor space represents an
investment on which a return must be
earned. He expects that around 10 per
cent of his 10,000 chicks will die but
the proﬁt is greater than it would be if
the pullets were allowed the four square
feet of ﬂoor space, each, that most agri-
cultural colleges suggest.

In summer when the thermometer hits
85 degrees, pullets crowded in the pant-
ing mass of ﬂesh and feathers on the ﬂoor
begin to die. When the mercury touches
90 degrees, 400 birds die in one day.

In some respects, even so, the birds
kept in big laying houses like these are
fortunate. For there is a comparatively
new type of laying house, the ”battery”
house, in which each hen is conﬁned
throughout her productive life in a sin-
gle cage about 14 by 20 inches in size.

The 10,000 chicks that we have been
following begin laying in May and are
in full production in June.

Last year, the hens of the country
produced something like 3,370,070,000
dozen eggs, with a value of $1,095,789,-
000.

Not all of the billion-plus chickens
produced on American farms every year
are destined to be laying hens, of course.
In the normal course of events, about
half of the chicks hatched are roosters.
Most of them, and a large quantity of
”straight run” (both sexes) chicks, are
raised for the broiler trade. In the Del-
Mar Peninsula district of Delaware and
Maryland, many broiler plants produce
more than 500,000 broilers, grown to
9-12 weeks of age, every year. Broiler
chicks are commonly even more crowded
than layers.

Many broiler producers these days
maintain their own slaughtering and
packing plants. Most poultry producers,
however, sell their birds alive and the
slaughtering is done in commercial
packing plants. Here, even at the point
of death and after, the chickens are ﬁg-
ured as a straight dollars and cents prop-
osition. Slaughtering and dressing is a
production—line process in which even
feathers and blood have money value.

Chickens are usually killed, in such
plants, by a knife stuck through the

Page 22

mouth into the brain and then drawn
across an artery in the interior of the
throat.

The purpose of this report is not to
argue that the poultry farmer and the
attached industry is unnecessarily cruel.
It is not even purposed to argue how

much suffering the chickens undergo.

As a recent article in T/ae Na'tz'mzal H21-
mmze Review pointed out, it is difﬁcult
to determine the degree of physical or
psychological suffering that various ani-
mals experience under any given condi-
tions.

”The ambition of a hen,” said one
writer, ”is not freedom but food, ven—
tilation, and room enough to cackle.”
Who knows? ‘

No, the purpose of this report is not
to prove a pre-conceived conclusion. The
purpose is to give humanitarians some
facts about which they may wish to
think. Many local humane societies al-
ready have interested themselves in
chickens sufﬁciently to inspect public
wholesale markets and the ”holding”
pens of poultry slaughter houses.

Should humane workers do anything
more?

ll

Butch

(Comimzed from page 13)

He hesitated, then asked, ”Ever use
it in a gun-ﬁght?”

I know I hated him, and I suppose
some of it showed, ”No,” I said care-
fully, ”I haven’t used it—yet.” Then
I stood up and put the gun away, picked
my pack up, and went about my work.

Gradually late winter gave way to
spring, and on spring’s heels came sum-
mer, and still I obeyed the old man’s
order to leave the dog alone. It was
hard at times. I hated to see the little
fellow tied up most of the day, and
all of the nights.

Then one night while I slept, a little
ﬁgure crept through my tent door with
the rope he had chewed through, still
dangling from his collar. I woke in
the dark to feel his wriggling body
stretch itself alongside mine, and his
quick tongue on my cheek. I didn’t
move, other than to bring my hand up
to rub his ears. Then I let my mind
run on the whole ridiculous situation.

I thought of the vicious, jealous cook,
and the unreasonableness of the old
man’s orders. Then I thought of the
little dog with the forest stretching
round him, with freedom everywhere,
but not for him. Of his life tied mostly
to a jackpine and with never enough
to eat, of him ﬂying sideways on his
master’s boot because I thought to make
a friend of him. Then suddenly I was
angry. I bent down and put my boots on
and my faded overalls. Then, as a matter
of course, and purely because of habit,
I buckled the gun round my waist, and
looked for my towel and soap.

I heard the cook call sharply, ”Butch!”
I looked through the open tent-ﬂap and
saw him holding a half-chewed piece
of rope in one hand, and then he called
again sharply, uButch, come here you!”
I looked down at the dog crouching
and quivering at my feet, and it was
easy to see the fear in his full brown
eyes. Then, as the cook called angrily
again, he crept with his belly to the
ground towards his master, thirty feet
away. I watched him crawl slowly over
that little distance, and I knew the trail
of misery and fear that it was to him.
I saw. the cook’s left foot leave the
ground to kick him, and I stepped
swiftly from the tent door and said,
”Hold it!” Then I stood quite still
with my hands on my thighs and, though
it was not intentional, my right hand
rested just above the gun butt in its
holster. And so we stood for a little
space of time. Then the cook put his
left foot down, and the dog cowered
with his head in his paws at his feet.
I saw shock and astonishment ﬂit across
the cook’s mean features, and then a
blazing rage twisted his thin lips, and
I saw his eyes travel to my right side,
where my hand rested above the only
gun in camp. Then he looked down at
the little ﬁgure crouching at his feet,
and again I said softly, ”Hold it, cook.”
He raised his eyes with hate burning
in them like lamps, and I said quietly,
”Butch, come here. Here, boy.”

I knew the dog was coming though
I did not see him come. I watched the
cook. Then when the little fellow
leaped up at me, I patted his head with
my left hand as he stretched against
my thigh, but my right hand never
moved a fraction from where it rested
just above the Smith and Wesson.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 




 

Then I said ﬂatly, “About the dog,
cook, I’m telling you to quit tying him
UP- Quit kicking him, and. from 'now
on. just let him run where he wants to
run.” Then the hate in me made me
add, ”He kinda likes me, cook. Just let
it go at that. This time I’m telling you,
and if you've got a nickel’s worth of
sense in that bat-eared stupid head,
you’ll pay attention.”

Then I turned my back on him,
picked up my towel and soap, and
walked away to wash my face and hands.

I think I’ve already said enough to
let you have a fair idea of what that
small dog meant to me. To this day
I can’t imagine how I could have for-
gotten him on the morning that we
made our final move to Campbell Lake.

I think perhaps I had become so used ,

to his following me that I never realized
he wasn’t there until too late.

Between our old camp site and our
new one on the shores of Campbell
Lake, a windfall stretched for more
than half a mile—a tangled chaos of
forest giants laid in heaps by some
mighty wind, and over this we had to
travel. I made the new camp first, and
then I looked for Butch, but he wasn’t
there. Then coming down the aisles
through the strip of timber between the
lakeside and the windfall’s edge, I saw
the cook. I said, ”Where’s the dog?”
and I didn’t like his face when he
grinned and said, ”You ought to know.”
I didn’t answer. I stood quietly for
some time and studied him, and then
I turned and I remember I trotted as
rapidly as I could through the aisles
between the tall trees on each side of me.

The sun was slanting towards the

west when I came to the edge of the

windfall, and climbed until I travelled
on the surface logs of the tangled mass.
Then when I was nearly halfway across
the desolate acres the windfall covered,
I froze to complete immobility, as sud—
denly as if I had been turned to stone.
I wasn’t sure, but over the shrill buzzing
0f the ﬂies, I thought I’d heard a tiny
whimper.

I squatted down, and called softly,
”Butch, here boy, good boy.” Then I
didn’t breathe, just listened. It seemed
an age before I heard him answer. Then
from the forest ﬂoor, ten feet to the
fight of me, I heard him crying, and
as swiftly as a man could I dropped

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

through spaces between the tangled
trees, and found him.

Always when you see some shocking
thing man has done, you wonder why
the good God let it happen. I wondered
then! It required no imagination to
know what had taken place. The cook
had twisted a cord round the little
fellow’s neck, and clubbed him near to
death. Then he had thrown him from
the top of the windfall, and the little
body had tumbled down to where I
found it. So that was that! He wasn’t
dead, as the cook had thought, but I
knew it was useless to try to do any-
thing to save him, and no good would
come of telling you in detail how shock-
ingly the little chap was injured. I
didn’t touch him, except to lay my hand
ever so gently on his broken forehead,
and then I knew that from his point
of view at any rate, my advent was a
miracle, because the pain—wracked cry-
ing ceased, and as I sat beside him and
talked softly to him, while a bitter
misery took me so that I shook and
trembled with the force of it, I saw the
suffering go out of the brown eyes. And

' Rescuers

   
   

Honored

3?:

Shown receiving American Humane Association medals for heroism in

so I sat at the bottom of this cursed
windfall, and learned to the full the
fantastic thing a man is to a dog who
loves him. Because this little creature
who had lain crying in the wilderness
for hours didn’t cry again. To him, I
knew it was as if a god had come to
bring content. Then in a little while I
saw the eyelids drop over brown eyes
that had grown soft with ecstasy, and
then they lifted and dropped again ever
more slowly until at last they didn’t lift
again at all, and I felt him stiffen under
the hand that rested on his head.

So that was ﬁnished. I was seventeen.
Never before had I fully known the
implacability of death. For a while I
sat quite still, and then I took my old
bandanna handkerchief from round my
neck and wrapped it about his little body
and his broken head, and I put him
just as carefully to rest.

Then I climbed swiftly to the wind-
fall’s roof, and paused for an instant to
pick up the ﬁrst blaze campward. When
the waters of Campbell Lake showed
between the tree-trunks I walked as
softly and as silently as any forest crea-

 

rescuing a puppy marooned on an island in ﬂooding Clinton River

(Mich. ) are Selfridge Field Airmen Sgt. Gerald West and Sgt. Glen

Poules.

Clifton Iohnson (1.), General Manager of the Michigan Humane

League, is making the presentation. At right is Walter G. Fenton, long a
humane worker, who assisted in the rescue and ﬁrst recommended award

of the medals.

Page 23

 

 




 

 

ture. When at last I came to the little
open pleateau on which the camp stood,
he didn’t hear me. He was standing
with his back to me, and against the
ﬁre-log where he made his preparations
to cook supper stood a double-bitted
axe. .
I stopped in the open space some
twenty feet from him, and I said gently,
”I found the dog.” He was a ﬁghting
man, this cook, and as quick as light-
ning. He didn’t turn, just reached
swiftly for the axe, and then he" faced
me, and I said, ”Hold it,” and he stood
quite still, because my gunnever moved
from his beltbuckle as I walked to
within ten feet of him and stopped.

”Now throw it sideways, cook,” I
said, and very slowly he swung the
heavy axe, in a half-circle in front of
him and let it go. His eyes never left
mine, and I could see him set himself
on the balls of his feet and relax. He
had had a lot of experience, this cook,
no doubt of that. But in his desperate
mind I knew there was a picture of a
bird that tumbled sideways at the bark
of a steady ‘gun. I said sharply, "put
them up high, cook, and keep them
there,” and he put his hands up high
above his head, and stood motionless.
I walked towards him and stopped per-
haps two feet away. I spread my feet a
little sideways and turned my toes in
just a wee bit, and my left hand hung
loosely at my thigh. Then I made a
sudden gesture sideways with the hand
that held the gun, and as I knew they
would, his eyes travelled downward for
just an instant, and in that split second
I hit him with my left ﬁst on the angle
of his jaw.

As he swayed his eyes rolled up-
wards for an instant, and I smashed my
knee into his middle, and hit again as
he doubled up; it was my left hand
coming up from the region of my knees
that got him square between his close—
set eyes. Oh yes, I knew the dirty tricks.

Sometimes I’ve wondered if folk are
right when they say that deep in the
hearts of human beings murder always
sleeps. I couldn’t tell the answer, but
I do know that when at last he stumbled
to his knees, an implacable urge to kill
him woke in me, and an insane blazing
rage blotted out the last shred of mercy.
I know that as he stumbled down I bent
and took his throat in my hands and

Page 24

.x. , , ..._s___.,. ”1:, MW .-. i_ , , .

commenced to choke his life out, ahd
then as if it were from another world,
I seemed to hear a voice say, ”Drop
him, Jim, drop him, damn you!” But
I didn’t drop him, and then something
exploded in my brain, and I knew an
instant of blackness—and then just
nothing.

How long it was before conscious-
ness returned I couldn’t tell you, and
when it did I didn’t move. I don’t
know that I could have moved. Bit by
bit I became conscious of a hammer
beating in my head,,and the thud of it
was agony. But after a little while my
thoughts began to focus, and then I
became aware of voices.

I heard Regan say, "God knows
what’s wrong with him, Casien, but in
another thirty seconds, he’d have killed
the cook.”

Then Casien said, "Charlie, I’ve never
seen a man in the shape he’s put this
cook in. We’ll have to get a doctor in
for him.” He paused and then went on,
"They were bound to ﬁght, Charlie, no
way out of it with their jealousyover
that dog—and that reminds me, where
is the dog?”

And I sat up slowly and looked at him
and said, “Dead, Casien.”

My voice startled him, then he re-
laxed and asked, “How?”

"The cook,” I said, “tied a rope
round his neck and then he beat him
to death with a club.”

Casien said, "Did he?” and then
after a pause, "Did he, by God!” And
after that there was a silence for a little
time, and then he said, as if talking to
himself, ”The dirty rat!” And then for
a long time, there was nothing except
the hammers beating in my head, until
at last the old man got to his feet and
gave his orders. ”jim, you make up
your pack and get out of here. You can
reach the sea-coast by tomorrow morn-
ing, and Courtenay by tomorrow night.
Tell Andrews to send three packers in
with grub and medicine, and bandages.
See Jason, the Company’s doctor, and
tell him to get in here urgently. You
can get your time in Victoria. Now,
get going.”

I didn’t answer. In my favour you
can remember that I didn’t say a word.
And so I travelled away from Campbell
Lake, among the crowded forest trees,

 

and eventually they opened out and for
the third time on that day, I climbed the
windfall’s face and hurried. on, and in
a little while I came to the pile of logs
beneath which my friend slept, wrapped
in my old bandanna handkerchief. At
trail’s end I’d ﬁnd a lumber camp, and
the timberjacks would feed me. Then
thirty—seven miles away along the sea-
coast would be Courtenay, and I’d make
the little forest town about four pm. But
I wouldn’t stop, and I’d say. no word to
any man, much less a doctor. Then
there would be Comox, and a little ship
to take me south. And back on the
shores of Campbell Lake, a broken man
would suffer. So that was justice. So
let it be!

I shrugged my pack more comforta-
bly on my shoulders, and tilted my hat
brim against the glare of the setting
sun. I think my hand made a tiny
gesture, half salute, half farewell, to
the little chap who slept below me, deep
in his lonely grave beneath the windfall.

"O.K., Butch,” I said, ”your debt is
square.”

Then I travelled on. It’s not a pretty
story, but there it is. There’s no apology.

A

T mp Award
(Cominaed from page 18) -

always seriously bruises the animals,
often cuts deeply through skin and ﬂesh,
and quite commonly also breaks bones.
The trapped and injured animals then
must suffer in the traps for hours, some-
times for days, before the trapper comes
along and kills them with club or gun.

The AHA is trying to eliminate the
suffering.

Many traps already have been in-
vented that will either hold an animal
unharmed or kill it painlessly. The
universal fault of such traps, up to this
time, has been their failure to win
popularity with commercial trappers,

Meanwhile, Mr. Giles goes on try-
ing to dig out from under the deluge
of mail and traps, simultaneOusly hop-
ing that the ﬂood will continue to ﬂow.

The contest has no closing date. The
award offer will stand until a trap that
satisﬁes the requirements is found. De-
tails of contest rules can be obtained by
writing to Mr. Giles at AHA head-
quarters in Albany.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 




 

Eisenhower and Stevenson Aren’t
Talking on Humane Legislation

Presidential Candidates Eisenhower
and Stevenson apparently are unready
or unwilling to commit themselves on
two important pieces of humane legis-
lation that have long concerned the
humane movement.

On August 12, Mel L. Morse, Execu-
tive Director of the American Humane
Association, sent the following tele-
gram to Adlai Stevenson and Dwight
D. Eisenhower:

”The American Humane Association,
the national federation of more than
600 local and regional humane organ-
izations for protection of children and
animals, respectfully requests a state-
ment of your views on two items of
proposed legislation that are of greatest
interest to more than 500,000 members
of our afﬁliated societies. The ﬁrst item
is legislation to provide federal aid for
states to enable them to offer educa-
tional and welfare facilities of minimum
decency for children of migrant agri-
cultural workers. Many authoritative
studies have shown that these children,
estimated numbering more than quarter
million, are probably the most under-
privileged segment of whole American
population. We do not ask you to

commit yourself to any speciﬁc piece.

of legislation but would like to know
whether if elected President you will
support legislation of any kind to aid
these children. Second item concerning
us is amendment of Public Act Number
340, commonly called ”the 28-hour
law,” to make it cover livestock trans-
ported in motor vehicles. The Act now
requires that livestock shipped by rail
be unloaded for rest and feed periods
if in transit more than 28 hours. Law
does not cover animals shipped by truck
and immense suffering and economic
loss result from this defect. Please reply
by collect wire so that we can publish
your statement in September number
Of our national magazine.”

A reply was received from Arthur
H. Vandenberg, son of the late Michi-
gan Senator, on behalf of Mr. Eisen-
hower. The reply was courteous but
Was obviously a form letter. Mr. Eisen~
hower, Mr. Vandenberg said, "£1063

Lll‘li‘l‘ﬁt‘late your concern about the ques—

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

tions you raise in your letter and he
would like to answer them forthwith,
yet we do have a problem on timing
and general release. The Republican
platform, of course, provides the basic
statements on major issues.”

Mr. Stevenson’s headquarters had not
replied when this issue of T/Je Review
went to press.

ASPCA B}:Lavvs
To Be Tested

Repercussions of the spring battle
over New York State’s Metcalf—Hatch
Act reached state courts in a new form
in August. Twenty members of the
American SPCA (New York City),
ﬁled a complaint in State Supreme Court
against the ASPCA and asked for an
injunction against the society’s Board of
Managers, restraining the Board from
attempting to enforce by-laws adopted
in 1907 and subsequently amended.

 

 

 

 

The effect of such an injunction would
be to reinstate earlier by-laws, under
which the membership of the ASPCA
had a readier control over society affairs

than it now does.

Plaintiffs in the case told the court
that ”an actual controversy exists” be-
cause the Board of Managers of the
SPCA, acting under the 1907 by—laws,
as amended, has refused to comply with
a request of the membership to seek a
court test of constitutionality of the
Metcalf—Hatch Act and to seek its re,-
peal. l

The American SPCA’s Board of Man-
agers has never favored the Metcalf-
Hatch Act but failed to join other New '
York State humane societies and the
American Humane Association in op-
posing passage of the Act.

A
V

If every man devoted to his affairs,
and to the, affairs of his city and state,
the same measure of intelligence and
honest industry that every warm-blooded
animal devotes to .its affairs, the people ‘
of this world would abound in good
health, prosperity, peace and happiness.
—William T. Hornaday

 

Yesterday a horribly mutilated dog
came into the office and crawled
under our desk. She had been ter-
ribly treated by some ﬁend in human
form, was suffering and looked to us
for some kind of compassion.

The Guam News Hafa columnist,
Marjorie Freeman, came up with an
idea, called Captain A. A. Jackson,
warden of the Ordot Penitentiary,
and explained the situation to him.
Captain Jackson promised he would
take care of the situation.

About half an hour later, a prison
truck drove up to the ofﬁce and the
guard and prisoners aboard took
over our suffering friend. They
lifted her tenderly into the back of
the truck, drove off.

Curious, we sought advice as to
what would happen next. It seems,
our Hafa columnist explained to us,
that Captain Jackson has developed
a painless method of putting aban-
doned pets out of the way when they
are suffering. He has an airtight box

 

Genesis of d flame/1e Sou'efy—We ﬂope
(A72 editorial in t/oe Gmmz Daily Newr)

in which the suffering animals are
placed. Then a jeep exhaust pipe is
connected to the box and the animal
is mercifully killed in seconds by
the carbon monoxide from the motor.

Captain jackson tries, we are told,
to ﬁnd homes for those animals that
come into his hands that are worth
saving. So far he has been very
successful.

However, we feel, from the ex-
perience with this dog that we de-
livered to Captain Jackson’s men,
that the time is now present when
a Guam Humane Society should be
formed.

The Ordot Warden cannot do the
job alone and his efforts toward
bringing humanity to the lesser ani-
mals must be buttressed by a group
of public spirited citizens. _

This group could also go into the
sitUation of the great number of
animals that are abandoned by their
owners when they are transferred
from (Juan).

 

 

Page 25

 

 

 

 

 




 

Rig/If Off My (best

(Continued from page 2)

With one state federation with delegates
from ﬁve societies in attendance, and a
shelter workers’ conference with repre-
sentatives from ten societies. In addi-
tion, I’ve had scores of conferences with
individuals and small groups, and in all,
would say that I have had some contact
with more than 30 humane organiza-
tions in four weeks.

Several of these have been large or-
ganizations, which have been well estab-
lished for many years, but the majority
have been small organizations, strug-
gling to keep going, or struggling to get
started. Large or small, they all have
something in common—problems.

As you know, Fred, our director of
the Rocky Mountain Region, Willard G.
Lane, was with me for part of this trip,
and we met Mel Morse, our executive
director, in Seattle, where we all par—
ticipated in the first shelter workers’
conference in the Paciﬁc Northwest.

Some of the societies we visited had
never before been visited by anyone
from the American Humane Association.
It’s difﬁcult to explain to these societies
why they haven’t had ﬁeld assistance
from the American Humane Association.
They read in The Review about the ex-
cellent work being done in the Rocky
Mountain, the Western, the Southwest-
ern, and the Southeastern regions, where
we have very able ﬁeld men, and they
want to know why no ﬁeld men are
assigned to their equally important re-
gions. I explained that this kind of
work costs a great deal of money and
that we simply don’t have the funds.

But such explanations don’t help,
Fred. Somehow, we’ve got to ﬁnd the
ways and means of giving more direct
ﬁeld assistance to the scores of humane
societies, large and small, that are beg-
ging for help. I think all of them are
doing the best they know how, and the
societies that are doing things the wrong
Way show complete willingness to bring
their programs and facilities up to

7 standard.

Here was a society, working under
great difﬁculty, carrying on its program
in a rapidly growing city, with com-
pletely inadequate shelter facilities. Be-
cause it was doing a good job, this
society had the complete conﬁdence of

Page 26

.» . :L:_g~u:.3~.£.-A_.~ -A

the public, and had been able to build
up a fund for remodeling and expand-
ing its present facilities. Ofﬁcers and
directors were most grateful for concrete
suggestions on how to get the most for
their money.

The following day we were with
another society, and here the problems.
were different. This society had an ex-
cellent shelter building but was badly
arranged because the architect simply
didn’t know anything about animals.
We pointed out a few simple changes
that would provide better facilities for
more animals at a cost of only a few
hundred dollars. At a closed board meet-
ing I was asked to report on my observa-
tions at the shelter.

Speciﬁcally, the board wanted to know
why the society’s public relations were
so bad. A shelter manager who was
possessed of mean disposition was large-
ly responsible and I recommended a
change. Since then the change has been
made and a letter has just reached me
telling me that already public relations
are greatly improved.

The societies that need our help most
are those that are just getting started.
I think my biggest thrill on this trip
came after I met with such a group for
an entire afternoon and then for dinner
and an evening meeting that lasted until
one o’clock the following morning.

”We organized along the lines you
suggested,” they said. "We have our

KING PENGUIN

 

Plaster model for bronze gate/Inst, by
Gertrude K. Lathrop

constitution and by-laws. We have more
than 300 members. We have nearly a
thousand dollars in the bank. We have
a dozen good volunteer workers and we
rescue an average of 25 animals a week.
What do we do now?”

”Get a shelter site ﬁrst,” I said. I
told them what kind of a site. It should
be large enough to meet the society’s
needs for many years. Well located,
accessible to the public. It should have
all utilities available; It should be away
from any residential area, but still in-
a desirable, location. Then plan a modern,
small, but well constructed shelter. De-
termine the annual budget and employ
at least one good man to serve as shelter
manager and agent.

Already, this society has obtained a
wonderful site. And it was donated three
days after my visit. An enthusiastic let-
ter informs me the members are at work
clearing the site and getting ready to
build, using plans the AHA furnished.

Destroying animals is the hardest part
of our work, Fred, and our shelters
shoulduse the most humane method
possible. It is heartening to ﬁnd societies
that will make any sacriﬁce necessary to
get the most humane euthanasia equip-
ment now available. On this trip alone
I have found ﬁve societies that have
just installed high altitude chambers,
or have them on order.

Some of the methods used to put
animals to sleep worry me a great deal,
but I worry more because of weaknesses
in the animal placement programs in
some societies. Here, too, the societies
simply say: ”Tell us what to do to ﬁnd
good homes for more animals.” When
we tell them, they seem grateful and
I’m sure they are because they, too,
want to strengthen their programs.

We were told by some societies, quite
frankly, that without ﬁeld assistance
from the American Humane Association,
they can’t improve greatly. They under-
stand that for years we had only one
ﬁeld man and that it was impossible
for him to do more than assist a mere
fraction of the societies needing help.
They simply do not understand why we
don’t have enough ﬁeld men to cover the
entire country.

I’ll have a lot to write about when I
get back from this trip, so you can look
for the colun‘lu then. ’W'ith best regards,

Larry

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 




 

 

This Is the House th

This article tells you [vow to organize and main-
tain a wonderful junior Humane Socrety. Don’t
blame as if you lac/e one ingredient of the reczpe!

THE NATIONAL HUMANE

REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

e Juniors Built

OU’VE heard the story of how, when the grasshoppers

were devastating the crops of the pioneer Utah farmers

a seemingly miraculous army of seagulls appeared and
saved the day? It was approximately so when the Oakville
and District Humane Society, of Oakville, Ont, desperately
needed funds for a new shelter, and then again when labor
was needed to supplement the funds, and still again when
the shelter manager needed more help than society ﬁnances
would permit—and so on. But in Oakville it’s not seagulls
that have repeatedly come to the rescue. It’s the Junior
Humane Society—a junior society the like of which, unfor-
tunately, is not often seen.

If you’re a philosopher, of course, and like to dig back
behind apparent beginnings into ”ﬁrst causes,” you may say
that it was Herbert Merry who should be credited. Mr.
Merry, however, would rather have the accolade given to the
juniors.

With no intention of getting into such an argument, it
may be said as a matter of simple chronology that the whole
thing started when Mr. Merry, who writes a newspaper dog
column, visited the schools in ()akville with his ﬁve cocker
spaniels. He talked to 1,200 children in two days. He bathed

Page 27

 

 




 

 

At left is Herhert Merry, the guiding genius of the
Oaleville ]unior Humane Society, and a part of the
crew that helped build the Oakoille animal shelter.
Below, left, are Duggy Tilley and [udy Bide with
friends Tuﬂee and Mic/ale, peddling blocks for the
shelter. Below, right, is a section of the crowd at
a IHS pet show.

and groomed his dogs in front of each group of children,
he fed his pets, and he even ate some of the dog food him-
self in order to dramatize his argument that food given to
animals should be as good as if it were for humans.

The intereSt was so great and so obvious that Mr. Merry
and the directors of the Oakville and . District Humane
Society decided that the time was ripe for organization of a
long-discussed junior humane society. Mr. Merry called an
organizing meeting in a hall in an Oakville church. School
teachers cooperated in making announcements of the meeting.

The project was an instant success. More than 300 chil-
dren, from 5 to 15 years old, turned out for the ﬁrst meeting.
Mr. Merry and his colleagues from the senior society board
capitalized on the opportunity. They showed an exciting
humane education film that featured a goat. Mr. Merry
thereupon produced a live goat and let the children get
acquainted with it while he talked about the care that should
be given all domestic animals. The children asked questions
and Mr. Merry answered them. Then Mr. Merry invited

    

various children to tell the group about their own pets.

Only a stern adult concern for the necessity of getting
children .to meals on time broke up the meeting. It might
still be going had the children been uncoerced.

At subsequent meetings the senior advisers continued the
routine of the moving picture with persOnal appearances of
the appropriate live animals. They inaugurated, in addition,
humane skits, poster contests, scrap-book projects, and instruc-
tion on construction of dog beds (for boys) and dog blankets
(for girls). '

Membership dues were set at 10 cents a year and members
received an attractive membership «button.

Attendance at meetings, at first held twice a month and
later monthly, rose to more than 400. The mother of David
Morgan, 5 years old, reported that he flatly refused to go
on a picnic on Club day. ”Mommie, this is mylcluh,” he said.
”I cannot miss a meeting.”

So, when the senior Oakville and District Humane Society
found itself needing a new animal shelter and lacking funds
with which to provide it, a rescue organization already
existed. Mr. Merry told the Junior Humane Society about
the problem. The JHS resolved itself into a committee of
the whole on ways and means. And a great idea came out
of the discussion.

The proposed new shelter was to be built, largely, of con-
crete block. The senior society had taxed its treasury to buy
three acres of land. The junior society undertook to provide
the concrete blocks. The technique decided upon was for

individual members to ”sell” individual concrete blocks

 




 

'to the public. Mr. Merry negotiated
a delivery of blocks on consignment.
junior Humane Society members loaded
the blocks onto toy wagons, scooters,
the rear steps of tricycles, the seats of
bicycles» and set out on a door—to-door
campaign to sell them.‘

When a friend, relative, or neighbor
”bought” a block he was given a receipt
but not the block because, invariably,
the purchaser agreed readily to contrib-
ute the block to the new animal shelter
of the humane society. The sale de-
veloped into a competition, the blocks
sold like ice cream at Coney Island, and
the money rolled in like a flood to the
senior socety treasurer.

\When the competition wound up the
three winning salesmen had prints of
their own hands and their dogs’ paws
imprinted in the concrete sidewalk lead-
ing to the shelter’s front door. The
William O. Stillman Award has prob-
ably never brought greater pride to a
recipient!

The concrete blocks now were avail-
able and the senior society had mean-
while raised funds for other necessary
construction materials and equipment,
but still there was a shortage of money
for labor. The huskier members of the
Junior Humane Society pitched in again
and dug the ditch in which the footings
for the building were to be laid. Then,
because the nearest water supply was at
a stream almost an eighth of a mile
distant, the children volunteered to carry
water for use by the workmen.

One night it began to rain after dark.
One of the boys ran to the shelter and
placed buckets under everything avail-
able that would drain water to a given
spot. In the morning the buckets were
half full and the young genius was a
one-day hero.

The children mixed concrete, carried
blocks forthe masons, shellacked knot
holes, and brought in donations of paint.
‘ Some of the children carrying concrete
blocks were so small that two were re-
quired to stagger a few yards with one
block. They loved it.

Many of the hollow concrete blocks
were stuffed with small tin cans contain-
ing a picture and the story of a pet.
The outside of each block so ﬁlled was
marked so that it can be permanently
recognized.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

Ienmfer [07265, in
Heart,” trying to save a fox from
buntsmen.

"The ’ Wild

The shelter was ﬁnished more than
a year ago but the Junior Humane So-
ciety is as active as ever. The monthly
meetings continue, with uniformly large
attendance. The junior society members
report to the shelter on a regular sched-,
ule to exercse dogs, feed the animals,
and place newspapers on pen ﬂoors.

They rake and cut grass in the pet-
cemetery. They have planted. many.

shrubs and trees around the three acres
of grounds. They are now planning a

campaign for funds to provide outside .

runs for the dogs.

Oakville schools have been wonder-
fully cooperative. Credit for this prob-
ably should go largely to Mr. Merry,

who still is the adult director of the-

junior group. Each classroom in the
Oakville elementary schools has elected
a ”reporter” to keep the junior humane
society informed of humane education
projects. The local newspapers print a
weekly column of jHS news. Mr. Merry
edits the column.

Mrs. B. Duncan, who serves as secre-
tary for both the senior and junior
societies, says that ”as you can readily
see, Herbert Merry is the Junior Humane
Society. It’s a wonderful organization
because of his untiring efforts.”

The moral seems to be that the or-V

ga'nization and maintenance of a ﬁne
junior humane society is easy. All you
have to do is ﬁrst ﬁnd a Mr. Merry!

New Movie ‘
Recommended

Animals have been trained to work
in Hollywood studios since the days of
the earliest ﬂickers, but the experts have
just now, got around to producing a
ﬁlm-star fox. And, fortunately, the first
fox to achieve ﬁlm stardom is appearing
in a picture that animal lovers can un-
qualiﬁedly endorse and enjoy.

The photoplayi is "The Wild Heart,”
a David O. Selzn‘ick Technicolor produc-

‘tion that 'is showing now in theaters

throughout the country. Besides Foxy,
the animal around which the picture
centers, the ﬁlm stars jennifer Jones,
shown at'left trying to save the fox from
hunters. The plot is based on a novel, '
"Gone to Earth,” by Mary Webb, a
British writer who has consistently used -
her talents to campaign for decency
toward animals. ' '

Dr. W. A. Young, Director of the-
Western Area ofﬁce of the American
Humane Association, which supervised
the production of animal sequences
ﬁlmed in America, enthusiastically rec-
ommends the picture. ”It’s good hu-
manitarianism,” he says, ”and exCellent
entertainment.”

The' producers of "The Wild Heart,”
Michael Powell and Emeric Presburger, '-

‘took great pains to preserve in the ﬁlm

the theme of animal welfare that is the
appeal of Miss Webb’s novel. As a
result, woven in with the story of Foxy,
a denizen of the Shropshire hills of
England, are many scenes showing the
care and protection of other living
things, including bees, rabbits, birds,
and the other abundant wildlife of
Shropshire. .

Over all, the picture adds up to a'
telling indictment of people who abuse
or wantonly destroy animal life and an
encouragement of the ethic of kindness
upon which all humane organizations
are based. ' ‘

Go see it.

_____¢_._______

The New York State Conservation
Department estimates that 400,000 li—
censed deer hunters will be aﬁeld in
October and November. ._ The Depart—
ment also estimates that the state deer
herd is ”at an all-time high, around a
half-million head.” The deer still out-
number the hunters!

Page 29

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Notes fro/1' Here and Mere

The 112th annual report of the Scott—
ish SPCA shows once again that the Brit-
ish public is sympathetic to problems of
animal protection and welfare and that
the humane organizations of the British
Isles are effectively Operating in the
best traditions of the humane move-
ment.

The Scottish SPCA, the report reveals,
now maintains a staff consisting of Sec-
retary and Treasurer, an Assistant Secre-
tary, a Branch Organizer and Lecturer,
a Superintending Inspector, 23 Inspec-
tOrs, and 2 Collectors. The Inspectors
are stationed at points throughout Scot-
land. All are ofﬁcial Constables for
one or more counties.

In 1951 the Inspectors handled
10,510 cases involving alleged cruelties
to animals. It also conducted a broad
program of education. All police re-
cruits receive a humane education course
conducted by the staff of the SPCA as
part of their police training. The society
maintains a library of twenty 16-min.
ﬁlms that are used by the staff lecturer
and loaned to schools. The society con-
ducts an annual prize essay contest for
children.

It was particularly pleasing to the
American Humane Association to read
in the report that the Scottish SPCA
had reproduced and distributed 15,000
copies of the AHA’s 1951 “Be Kind
to Animals” poster.

Mrs. George Denny, whose husband
is manager of the Berkeley (Calif.) Hu-
mane Society, was mother and nurse to a
deer fawn this summer. The fawn was
found on a highway only a few hours
after birth. Its mother had disappeared.
A passing motorist delivered the baby
to the Humane Society shelter. Denny

' decided that the case demanded emer-

gency measures and took it home. Mrs.
Denny surrounded the infant with. hot
water bottles, prepared a bottle of milk
and dextrose formula, and won the
fawn’s unfrightened conﬁdence. The
baby now is about three months old and
almost ready to be returned to the wild,
(The AHA urges motorists not to pick
up baby animals, particularly deer, un-
less the mother is known to be dead.)

Page 50

In the last year the Jacksonville (Fla)
Humane Society has received 2,595 dogs
at its shelter. It has found new homes
for 1,169 of these animals——45 per cent
of them. The society’s annual report

points out that a great majority of those '

destroyed were diseased, injured, aged,
or were brought by their owners spe-
ciﬁcally for humane disposal.

A new humane society, called the
“Friends of Animals,” was recently or-
ganized in Dixon, Ill. Mrs. Edwin L.
Myers is president.

Identiﬁcation tattooing of all unli-
censed and redeemed dogs that come
into the Los Angeles city animal shelter
probably will be started soon. An ordi-
nance requiring such tattooing was
adopted June 2 but initiation of the pro-
gram has been delayed pending appro-
priation of funds for the work. The pur-
pose of the ordinance is to make possible
an easy identiﬁcation of dogs whose

owners habitually fail to keep license .

tags on them.

The Nez Perce County (Lewiston,
Ida.) Humane Society, which was or-
ganized in April, 1950, is working
toward a modern animal shelter but,
in the meantime, is offering refuge to
hundreds of homeless or unwanted ani-
mals in temporary quarters. Secretary-
Treasurer Ida V. Courtney reports that
the society now has a staff of three per-
sons: an ofﬁce secretary who lives on
the kennel premises, a kennel attend-
ant, and a Humane Ofﬁcer. The young
society also carries on a constant educa-
tion program.

-A Virginia statute banning prize
ﬁghts, bull ﬁghts, and ﬁghts between

a man and ”any other animal for money
or other thing of value” was called

'upon recently by the Norfolk SPCA to

prevent a chimpanzee from being forced
to ﬁght human opponents. The chim-
panzee is owned by RObert M. Noel.
SPCA agents said that Noel was pub-
licly offering $1 a minute to any many
who would stay in a ring with the chim-
panzee. The chimp was muzzled and
wore boxing gloves, as did his human

* Hero

 

Photo by Alfred A. Monner

Ginger, a 3-year-old cocleer spaniel,
has just been awarded the American '
Humane Association certiﬁcate for
heroism in saving lives of IO mem-
bers of the Leroy Herhert Luman
household in Portland, Ore.

At 3 a.m., Luman was aroused by
frantic harleing of Ginger. Lum'an
found the house ﬁlled with gas, hrolee
a window and called for help. Seven
of the nine occupants of the house
already were unconscious from fumes.

Lew E. Williams, treasurer and man-
ager of the Oregon Humane Society, is
shown presenting the certiﬁcate to
Mrs. Luman as custodian for Ginger.

Ginger seemed unimpressed. His
manner might have been interpreted:

”Any dog would have done as

much.” '

opponents. Noel said he had been
matching the chimpanzee in ﬁghts for
14 years.

 

 

 

The annual conference of the Fed-
erated Humane Societies of Pennsyl-
vania will be held on September 18-19
in the Hotel Roosevelt, Pittsburgh.
Kerns Wright, AHA President, will be
the principal speaker in a program that
will cover many problems of interest
to all humane workers. The program
committee has scheduled a discussion of
legislation affecting humane work, shel-
ter management, the organization and
functions of auxiliaries and working
committees, prevention of cruelty to live-
stock, and public relations. Rutherford
T. Phillips, of the Pennsylvania SPCA,
is President of the Federation.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER, 1952

 

 




 

 

‘ ORDER
Y0 UR
CALENDARS

THE 1953 Pet Animal Calendar of the American Humane As-
sociation Will be ready for shipment Oct. 1.

On our word of honor, never has the humane movement
been offered a calendar so beautiful. On every page is a rich,
Gorgeous reproduction of an oil painting—in full color. Every
painting was done especially for the AHA by famous artist
Arthur Hansen. For, the animals Mr. Hansen paints, you'll feel

love at first sight.

Individual humanitarians will want dozens of these full:
color calendars to send to friends and business associates at
Christmas time and at New Year's. Many persons use the annual
AHA calendar as a Christmas card. It makes a uniquely ap-

propriate daily reminder of a friendship.

Humane societies will want to order these 1953 full-color
calendars for sale to individuals and to use as greetings to
friends and contributors. This 1953 ,IAHA calendar is a gift that

recipients will value.

Despite the striking beauty of full color that has been in—
troduced in this year's calendar, the price is only $1.50 for a
box of 10 calendars, With BIG discounts for quantity orders.

The discounts are:

10% on orders for 510-1500
20% on orders for 1510-2500
30% On orders for 2510 and over.

You may have your name and address imprinted, if you
order 100 or more calendars. The charge is $3 for imprinting
the first hundred calendars and 50 cents for each additional
hundred. I

We expect our printing order to be completely sold out——
early. We advise early orders. Make your plans now.

 

The Ame ‘ican Humane Association

|35 Washington Ave. Albany IO. N.Y.

 

 

 

 




YOURS FREE of Extra Cost with

NEW HOM06‘ENIZED*
GAINES MEAL

Here’s a wonderful bargain- you just
can’t afford to miss! Five different saws
that you can use around your house or
kennel for doing odd jobs. Each saw is
made of high-quality alloy saw steel, hard-
ened and tempered, and polished to a high
mirror ﬁnish. And there’s nothing extra
for you to pay! (One set per customer.)

Here’s How to Get These Saws:

1. Simply cut out the words “25 lbs. net

weight” from twelve 25—lb. bags or “50
lbs. net weight” from ﬁve SO-lb. bags
of new Homogenized Gaines Meal.

2. Mail either set of cutouts to Gaines,
P. O. Box 189, Kankakee, Ill., and the
nest of saws will be sent to you.

Oﬂer expires December I, 1952

C W, 12”mitre ba .' panel
9mm“ saw, 10' Prumng saw, 12"

. , k6 hol
Wlth Simple butterﬂyzcrefvsaw. Blades attach

*GUARANTEED UNIFORM NOURISHMENT

When you feed new Homogenized Gaines Meal, you can be sure that each
and every granule contains uniformly balanced amounts of every food essen-
tial dogs are known to need. And more meat, milk and ﬁsh proteins!

There’s no separation of ingredients because Gaines’ unique process as-
sures balanced nourishment in every package, every feeding, every mouthful.
Easier to feed, too, either wet or dry. Wonderful for self-feeding. There’s no

other dog food like it!

£1

-aazu‘aoauv may

I.

aaaoa°sun-SN3A318

 




$ﬁ$ wzaﬁaﬁ a? fag Egg? AHD wga'wxaaax a? Tﬁa mzﬁs.
' ﬁabert Gaaall ‘ ‘
Enamal Laaauru ﬁalivared gay 12. 1953
Gr tha infinitc Huabmr af aham1aa1. yhyaieal. anabialagieal ayatama
whieh.h$va €§¢lvaa.frwa am ariginally hamaganaﬁua statu at waﬁtary the

narvmua aymtmm ig aka aaat aamprananatva at all: meta fanainaking than tha

univarae at whiah,it ia but an inrxnztaazmally amall para. far i%*anmampaaa~ ‘

an mat gnly‘tha'myataraaa ewmman ta matter but, in 3&ditian; éiapzaya an
arrayar gtrang@ faraaa whzah hava ap§¢@rwé aaﬂ.grawa in aiﬂplgxggy wggg
ﬁha avalutinm a! tha brain.

ﬁmallaa it is; tha narvaua ayssmm.efmgnia estiwaﬁsa‘by Hﬁryiak ﬁa'

ha ﬁﬂwﬁﬂﬁaﬁ #f appraxim&taly'ﬁixtaan billianvnsrva naila.' ?heae axquiaitea
/ M x '

f" g *‘y} u “2‘
i“ ."Dl:fi-~‘€ "If" Lg”? ft. 2

3y aan§1t1v¢ stéuﬁturaék}£§§~1a:highlyar$&n&aaﬂ aemmunian with mag
anathar. ﬁiﬁh thw-a@a at apgaiaiiaca agnagry raeoptora ana at enduargana.
thia agﬁmunihy at aella rametainazvazvc warmtelntarnal ané ta sxtarnal
'aaviranmgnz. Unlika any aﬁharmpart at naturm; 3a far asis knmwn. 1% la
aengeiaua at iﬁa aiiatanae and af’tha stata at its envirwnmﬁnt &n&. mag:
intarasting at ail; peaaaaaau the a&pa¢1ty a? aging the physiaal and
ahamiaﬁl feraan a! naturc ta its Kgﬁﬁlmﬁ;ﬁ advantaﬁg. it ﬁaaﬁ iﬁﬁaad

aimylay u M@ﬂ$ ramarkabla variety at phanamana an. e.g.. imitaatian at -

 




(2.)" J

narve impalaes as tha aanﬁary reaeptera; tranamisaian a! narve impulaea‘by
agave ring»: ta an& away fraa tha aantmal narwwua myataag~1atagrattan at

1&3? i? \

aanser? ngrve im§u1a$9»inta aamrﬁiuaEQQ reflaxﬁgf ﬁnﬁ 1n.%ha hiéherWegnﬁﬁrﬁg
wﬁara ﬁhara arw many41many“maru aslla, 1% aiaplaya 9&9 inékm$$b1$ ﬁnanwaa;
a! aonaaiaasaags; «manian;¢ansa1aaaa; aharmaﬁar; intalligmnaa; imaginaﬁaan.
dhstraatien; ate. whagc ﬁﬁQ but a raw ef iﬁa.manxfeatﬁt1ana whzah yugxla
tha-nauraﬁnaﬁaaiat and thg nﬁurophyaialagiaﬁ. ‘ f

i was avmlution a! gantus at'ﬁhwiﬁggnituﬂe atiﬁaaﬁhevan, ﬁiahalangQIQ;
' ﬁbakaapeart; Hawtaa; anﬁ.kriatﬁﬁleg ant ar‘tha namaganaausaubstanaa at tha
Qarth; atanas ua ﬁha graaﬁaat a: ﬁha'wunaara a? nawuya. Tha~myat¢ry 1% &ll
' ﬁha graaturthat the axtvaarainnry aggaalQiea af'maa are may turnaﬁ -§a1nat

hiaaalr ta ﬁhraatan Min very $31$tana¢, an xrwqyaf fat; wall axppaaaea in.»

tha tallawing quataﬁian: “E&n 13 aanfrantga by ﬁha trwﬁ»e iraay that whan

hg has bean maat aunaaaatul in yuahtng wat the haundariaa a? kRQWlQiﬁQ;

ha has meat anaangaraa €h§yaa$1h111ny at human 11?; an thia glanat. ﬂha
purauiﬁ at grain ﬁgs at 1&3t leé‘ua ta the taalﬁ‘by whﬁah wa a&n auraalvaa
baaama ﬁha ﬁaatrayara at war Qua inatituﬁlona aaé all ﬁha bright hapaa a!

tha raga.” (naymgna E. ?a$&1¢kﬁﬁaakarellar ﬁannﬁatzan ﬁagart.’19#5).

 




    
   
 

‘(3}

  

assesses is ﬁns asssllsst a! ass aa-sisslsygsaaassllsst whivh

sshssansmsss ass-asses as am ”amass gas). sf 3.11s! the. straw: sf. Mm '

 
 

ass abs asst parrssa ans sassasass at has sasks. asssnssly ansushs ﬁahﬁ?§n*'

 
 

hsasr arraass as this sassasssl in fall ass11satisn sass ass~ss11 is ass

 
 

assasa sf ass ass that ths iatslasss is ﬁns ssrvsnﬁ af'shs sill.

 
 

ass sail assassasaass s£.aasasas1sass sf as» iaasllsst as aha will‘aas "

   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 

asisass sat in s sass sisiafisast say, ass many yasrs laser. by Earhart

 

sysaass: ﬁasss is sﬁ«1y sassrsssss sass ass saasssns ass ﬁns sastsrs

 

ass ms magmas ass sass as ms was ass ass as sans as

issrsviasﬁhs sasvsas sails ass-ssatsra assaishaazssrsvsa. Iasraviag tbs

asavsst sass has siva as» assassasarssaass sfashisvins shsir sass.“
sass than,is s‘hrssa saswsr ts ths rassa a: Fassiak ans sthsss a?

sassy. ass assassahsasrw-y. spsssar*sssssssn aha tars at svssts artha

 

siasasaash,¢ms sassaissh asstassss, has sass sasssisstss~ahu assassive

asasnss at asiaass ass asshsslasy sf sassy, sass sight bass sssssaizss as»

 

  ssasss sf salsass and asshsalssy lying ssssass 1s tau assurs at man. It
Vania assafis sstraspoasfthst svslatisa psspsrss ass far-a sisals Rita in

Iths sarrsassssgs afﬁne Annals. and ass ass-she asaplsxitisa ahish salsass

 

and .tsshsslsy saw as sass-as.

  




(ﬂ)

$hig situatian,whi¢h‘§r$vaila ma§ay; ariaag tram ﬁha traﬁ1ﬂ1@nal may:
mfnaﬁurag tremﬁar laak a? tarﬁaigh%; aaé fra% ha? hit anﬁ $1$$ mgthaaa
@t avelutiaﬁ far; wiﬁhaua aaﬁbt; a?¢lu£1an ig aha prima ampzriaiat; ﬁhﬁ
§fﬁaa appartuniat; ana ﬁhﬁ augrama gamblar. ﬁatura ﬂlﬁyﬁ far tﬁa highaat
ataxas; nﬁmcly; tha 113$ and.&a&th a: haw awn araaturaﬁ. lﬁha gamhlaa'wiﬁh
a hﬁge aaak at agrﬁa. a=a daala an£ ana mutagian aﬁnn anathar ﬁﬁd waits
far the atruggla far exigtwnaa-ua ﬂaﬁarmiﬁﬁ why iﬁ-ﬁﬁﬁt upanuna avaluglanf
@9? aarmp haap.

aha ﬁaals eat a aignifiaant mutﬁtian whiehavwangaa tha highar
funetiana at ﬁha brain inﬁa twv~majér a@m$artm¢ntgz ene aiwpgrﬁaant
anaampaga&ng tha intallaat; and tha bﬁhar aamyarawant Eng amatiana. ﬁns

intarlacka thﬁﬁﬁ anayartmenta in mygzwriauﬁ ways 33 $5 $9 mgka intallaat

eﬁbaarviant ta tha mmativna. Eng amgticna afé grxmitive, far thay arw

mainly aanaarﬁad with ﬁha phyaiéal eamferta at ﬁasﬁ anﬁ aax. *ﬁurvival af
tha fitﬁaat,” partaata ﬁba tgahniqua 9f agﬁiarying ﬁhgaa aimpla nega34‘and
tha partnarahip at intallaeu anﬁ amatiana prawea auaaaaatul in argating
a heat a! highly'arriaiant animala.

when; audaunly; eaaa$ tut graataat mutatian at a11.bialeg1aal tima;
Tha proganiﬁar at’man 1a anﬁawud.w1th a vgatly aupariar‘brain which gives

him a a$aiaiva aﬁvantaga 97¢? big aampatitara. ﬁama gapieas baaamaa

 




  5‘ M
”uaéiaputeﬂ King af‘ﬁaaﬁta.
£11 $¢§a wall with man'unﬁil ha amamgas tra& tha aava mad awmkana ma

aﬁﬁrwklﬁﬂiﬁﬁ.ﬁf hga yawara. ﬁe inammaaaa 1ngnumb¢rn. Ea twang inﬁarsat in

tira. irnn,1¢v&rs. whaﬁls.-&né alphahaaa. :"at'rapaaitarian at saiﬁmaa

mnﬁ tgahnalagy awning up avernlghtinlibrariaa; 1vera1hzas; aha vaat
inauatriaa. avaﬁanly‘ha 1a aantvanﬁaa by a manatar at nag eun.araat1an;
anﬂ $gtrighﬁan1ngraalimaﬁian at $aaam9atsnae %@ aaahiaphanmmenal uttuiau
manﬁa wiaaly aaﬁ ﬁamﬁnaiy. Ea 1a; in shert; @anght $8.5.phyaialaglaal
trap; anﬁ fﬁﬁw§ wi£h Eh; yréblém: at Qaaapiz; fram his awn inganuiky.

Thia ﬂag» is ﬂat aha simplaah at traps far 1% 19 aamgeaaﬁ at saga".
aixtaan,b1111an may?» 6&118 intarlaakad inwaya t¢ make an :Wv'
gnﬂ 1n.waya whiah Ha havayet ta unﬁsratanﬁ. ’

magma ma azrriénmy : a: gum-grams: ma high-axe namyhymazagmm

maniraatmﬁiwna tn karma at nuﬁurallawa;aﬁnh as aensagaasnaéa ana aanaaiangc,
thera is a ata$ﬁily*ﬂ~'v ‘[ :rwt ﬁhu.ncrv¢ua aystam,perfaums its
~mu1tifar1wua fanatiang by inahrumantatien at alaatﬁdeall¢aargy. Thiw
haliaf taak raat in the aiaaﬁvery at animal aleetvieity by aalvaﬁi 1n'w%;eh
ﬁhe gaatraanamiua muaala a: ﬁha frﬂg'waa aaan tatwitah.an bringing thy auﬁ

and er Eng maiatxa nerva 13 aanratt with tha tanﬂau af aahzlloa.‘933 :Sd

 




(61

magic Remand; in turn; ammatmtm same me am arms: at a mama M
alas; #:1493113 mgauw w it» mtwt ‘. 311mm”; mm mammam that 'the
amalgam abmwmi by sums-m: was mama Menstrual m th. ' 9 as “’"
m malarimtim at um nmrmmbmm mm peal'tivg 1am can m smut».
ma mama” am: am Ma mam; gal/a Mama by Enigma“. a. saw—ad:

ammo a: grammars-n; whiah mam; be Massif by this mmn. 7" “is ' ‘1‘

am mmti MW mama” a: a. trammcs ism. mm: m 112% am Mam? saw-mm

at 1‘ Mary. $23-$an say mun and as saw. mamas-as: a} mmxma Wm magma}.

min at $022121.an mama. 7 345’s ”’3” ’

'fm magma a! a nawa impulaer alang as maﬁa mism- 53mg mm ”plasma
in mm 2331.13.11: am thus Maia at pammmn’sy m mimimtmn shaman: at
ﬁlm murm‘hma pmauam by lacs-.31 amitwwy atai’mui m. A. mlmnie gamma:
air-amass; ammh a Mme rum, f M illuamrteé as w. swarm an ammﬁary
inﬂame: as that: «maﬁa?! man it: Mama 15m nmman; am at; 12mm scary
mammal! M ﬁlm gamm- saw” it mate” the marmsm. . M'Mmﬁm at tam
nay-w by “mammal; whiah m sham; in than lesser 1‘ WW the m2 mw
magma summits. mm Mm“ a : «pen thug Manna M as gamma: fa “magma“ _
ﬁnk" ma drama warm-m: rm ﬁhﬁ minivan maul“ mating mailer: ands

wuss“ 3:. am: “maximum at: mm mmra mint. mm may mmmwd, ”31cm.

 




t?)

arm“: a warm am “magma.” Maize" @2236. thus. W “gamma 9: this
yraaaas. a agitatarw yragraagiaa,at ﬁne narva impulaau mavaa slang thy.
aanr&xan.

All narva‘impmxgau‘awahanter~¢r1aav¢ ﬁha aﬁrvana ayaﬁmm. ﬁna.en.a
nwuran. a maﬁalafibar. at a swwratany gig éby Qua kauténs§ wha terminal
ggﬁxaza at navvafibara. é an ﬂag naurxn sg aynaggoa. 5a ehnwn in Fig.33
byﬁultan. ‘fhaaa atrunturau art‘bwliavea ta fuxwaian ma tiny Elana: aha ,
ta aaaretﬁﬁhftgggaagﬁggggggéiﬁ aubaﬁawwa m&ﬁh the arrival at aaah.1§pulaa.
ﬁhia Qﬁbatanaa‘prmviaaa alaawrinazenargy ter.ﬁh$ antivazien at thy nsnraa.'
Etta @1ﬁ11&r t§ 5h; aaetylﬁnmlinalns@§_hy ﬁhg Gluvtrtaal ¢. M  at ﬁn;
alawtria aglted§11v¢rpﬁra1¥£1ng 559*kaataix.hnnar¢¢vélta er mart.

Xbu.w&11§19a3a gaggrvothp primary azrugtaral'raaturas-af ﬁha naévu
, @911; aehamatizad in figurw 9: the gall away; thaﬁenﬂrltca; in; gynayﬁie
againga ar‘aanvarging fibara; thé $39nh111¢ak what! ﬁha callbady .a:a-
inta thanauraman; tag 193% and glanﬁer-nauraxan; anﬁ.tha tarmlnaL beutanﬁ.

,~ ajaas arriva ta gréat numb¢ra 3% ﬁna‘nﬁuran; in aaéc'narve

a¢llg aa‘many a5 thraa hunaraﬁ thauaana par aaaana. whmae xmgulaaa aaﬁ up

nsgativa patgntiala at the gynaﬁsgu whiah.aﬂ& their 1nﬂ1v1ana1 affeata we

ggnergte g cmm«an,n@staallular aurrwnt whiah flaws in laws: swagping

clralaﬁ thraugh tha nauran and anviranmant. an inaiaataa by ﬁne urrawa.

 




(31

it 1a naaaraiakly'gropaaeathat aha nark$ eall fanatiana'alaakriaally--
in tha savurkl kkya far whikk it is kkwaikliaea. IXt aata'ak-a gamerktar a?
‘nmwwlmlw kurrmk whim; ' flewim MW \- . at. 1 2m wan Mimk. MW“.

* tha aallta ﬁtaahawga ﬁhyﬁhmknally 1n ﬁnk mannardkkkrveé‘kg Adrian kna
ﬁ$ﬁ$5¥u' khﬁ fraquenay‘at narve xwgkkka ﬁikaharga at! ﬁhcaxnn,hkllcwkvkrtes .
wikh tbs ktkcngkh at naumaaaliulkk warrant whiah. in ‘1“; aapaﬁda “yak tho
number a! ; g. .. : . , ‘ , Imgmlﬁw
arrivingasthtkkg;dkgw;k,wa :an.tk¢ aﬁhar hank; appkaothaagat tka aamavitaa :

and gel; 3%?“ ﬁﬁd thug h&?Q an @gggkkgggz‘funakzan. khk nerva gall is

tharatarw kﬁﬁuaﬁﬁ'ﬁﬂrhﬁﬁﬁ a ﬁg;gakgkgw.g,uv exaikkkary;aﬁ ﬁhﬁ kandritia pala.§
' : M91033, “ E 3 ‘
aka inhibitarw at tha-axania gala. An kxkn nag, k.kkaazalikaﬁﬁan at atruaka
. A _

ark ut-uhe axan h111®¢2.9r.kaathn¢r‘k wall at tha righ. ta highly suggestive
at this inhibitm‘? mmtmn.

was filamankeua nanramuna. araa"vary lung; aarry impulaas frag aka
statian.te anaﬁhar. Rbu.wdil abaervg; ik.f1guka 1;; auraa aata at fikava
karryang impulaaa tram aehaary rgvuptérn ta eha inkyxratary'and axyiratary
nauranu. gamsa impulkaa arﬁeanyarkwé at thﬁ aynkykaa inma ralutkﬁaly
langnlkatang; nanmprapagauaﬂ; nagativa gynaytia katamtialg whiah gupplytret ;
ﬁlﬂﬂtrikyﬂ <~-gx ta ﬁnk nauran anéaauee it ta aikahargag kinaa all nauraus'i

A

. 2:5
_ "1
. 'J‘

paekega «n.1nnaka tanéunay ta diﬁﬁdwhka aantinnaukly if'tha ktimulus 1a

 




   
 

 
 

{9)
gafrmaiantly'gtrangy an impert&ntlﬁv%ﬁﬁiﬁni3‘9*”@diﬁf.h§%'9rﬁﬁrig ““3“”
tainaaxa g pagggggian afagxt@an‘bxllganvaarve ea1l§ 31;tena1nﬁt9 fire
ﬁﬁ ans tima. Flaxian é! §h§‘a§m; u.g.;damgnﬁsequivalzntra§§gat1éﬁ é?
ﬁha axﬁanamva. Inayira$1ah yaguiraﬁ rmlaxntiaaaraxpirntarﬁ.ﬁusal¢a.
Inhiﬁitian.ef aarva gall aativity 15 inﬂa,aaa «aﬁaatial ﬁg navvaum tunatzan
as $3 axeitahiaa. Ema haw ara $h¢a$ agpastﬁ yhanﬁmuna awardinat¢d?

“Em hava @anaaivwﬁ. in figura 11; at an interlaaking at geneallgd

halfwaantgra arraagaﬁ.ta yraﬁuaa &utamgtia raaigraaml inhabitian heﬁwuan

 

 

ﬁﬁtﬁgaﬁiﬁﬁiﬁ nwurwng; bghwaen flaxar ana axtanaar ﬁgurans an#.aa in ﬁha

agha$ﬁ,‘b&twa&n imapiratary Qua axpiraﬁary nangna.

Kan will nat¢ thaﬁ & ﬁiaaharging :aapiratamy nmuran aiapatehaa impulstn

 

amwnwardw ﬁa ﬁha inapiratary auanles, anﬁ aweaaga;ss ta tha inhibitery p919
at thg ﬁxgzraﬁary mat; 9 via ﬁn» raaiprmaal inhibitary-aolaataralw %hia
éaubla‘aannwatian halﬁs tha axgzw&tary nauran anﬁ.mugelea inhibitna whila

thg inﬁgirﬁﬁar? maﬁalaﬁ ara @yaﬁrﬁgting; ﬁhgn,gh¢.gaﬁp1rﬁtmny nﬁuran stapé,

axgahawging. 3% withdrawa.;nh1bitary impuleea tram ﬁhc axpiratary nauvan

 

wﬁaahfh&$ aha sffaat ef inaraaﬁiiﬁ*tha axpiraﬁarw‘pouaatialgﬁrnp ana
initiﬁtzng axyzratary aetiviky. wha axgtratary nauran, 1n ita turn. '

diapaﬁeham $nh1b1tary impulaaa tn the ina@1rntary neuran and thoraby*hnlaa

it iahihitga. Aad $9 the rhythm aontinuaﬂ.

 

 




  m:

ﬁe wﬁll yafar~agn;n ta thia intavoating'intuflﬁgking at antaganigtin'

halfwaanﬁara 1n;h,tantatiy¢ interprgtatianagh‘\bghagigr.aj

, anathurantgraatiﬁgﬁhanamamén.111natrateﬁ1n.r1guraﬂla,istha
nutematiarngulatianafatranygh~of muhnlnaantraatlan.¥au will nata;1ﬁ
ﬁhaglcetrintlraaarﬁ afﬁh¢ aunurmatingﬂiauvxyw; ﬁhﬁt inapiraﬁiaﬁ bagina
gag ralativaly waak aantraatian ana that 1£.gywwa inatrn.gth grgﬁually‘-
and than ands abruptly at tha vaginal not axyivétian. fha puryaaear
this inaraséinglaﬁrnngth.at aaatraatzan ma ta averaametha‘incrﬁaaing
raaiatanea efferaa’byvtha atratahnng a? tha lunga ané tarsa.and attain
adgqnate filling at the lungg wiﬁh air.

. It wag grayaaea 1n 1§&e that Eha inaraaaa @fatrangﬁh at gantractiaﬁ 1a
aue ta an inaréaaa-Qf naurﬁaallular wurrénﬁ; ma graphaﬁ in thﬁ heavy aurve‘
at the lawn» frama.ér figura l3. Yb“ will nata ﬁhat tug imaginatﬁry guru
rent mm. ﬁuring: the anamrmaéy Imam f max mm aurmg: ﬁrm axpimtary mm. 5- 

Agraaméntaf‘tha thewratiaml grﬁﬁh with tha exymrimantal rinaingaig
aviaenaadby aampariaan a? thg uwgar aha laworrr&maeef‘f1gura 13. fha
up§er frame ahawothe gleetriaal ehangaa aaaurrivintha narvaagllaor
ﬁha phranicnervo during ﬁve reapirataryayalka. ﬁata thatthe a¢t1v1ty

- at the ingpiratary namrang inaraagaa aa thﬁ nauraeellular warrant piaaa.

 




~In.)

@ha aﬁrangthenxnggt thiﬁ aurrant 1a autamatiu. I: 15 atﬁributwaaa
. & raadingbaak ﬂ? 1m§ulaaa ateaveral varigtias. In ﬁha ﬁxamvlﬁﬁf'
raaﬁwbask illuatraﬁaa iﬁfigura 15. you will ﬁbgarva a raeurr¢at aollat§r&l‘
arranggé %@ a&rry‘1mgulaea agnaratwﬁby tha narva aallat aha @xan.h111§ak
ﬁﬁck ta tha_§ar¢nu naurea. Eazurna «imyulana a anantﬁhenauvaeéllular
‘mﬁrrﬁataﬁa ﬁhﬁ fr@qnen§y afimpulga diaahsrga.*einareaaeadisahavgc er
thﬁihapivatﬁrynauran gtrsngthgng ﬁha aiayhr%,gatia eanﬁraatianvnaﬁad.1n
figura lﬁf
Anathar variagyaf toaﬁnhaak arigihgﬁ¢a in ﬁha ineréaaxng tanaioniaf a “

wantramﬁiag inaﬁixatarymuaele ﬂﬁleh«etimulateathe ﬁtreteh.r¢a¢pﬁara, ahawn
I I  _ am?%¢3 . " ,, .
in %h& upp$r,@ﬁrtzaf thﬁ maﬁala fzbag? ﬁna inarﬁaaaa Eng faaaabaak at
aaagary impulaaa~ta theinagirataryneurena. *lﬁﬁagraturniag impuléag aﬁa
ﬁhgir rainrﬁrcamang*  gngygratianlta thgt at thoiaaurrqnt aellaterals aha

tﬁna halF§%@,¢V&r9§&$ iﬁsk#a$1§$ﬁaehaﬁie31 r3$15tan¢gL‘j

ﬁha manna? in=whiah thia.typa a? fgaéabﬁak ayaratasﬁa aajuat atvength

@f'imag£yatargaantrﬁatian ﬁg maahaniaal rqguiréﬁanta 1g gaﬁn in figurﬂ 17"
in Whiﬁhﬂhﬁ traghaa wag aaaluaaﬁ in twa at tha fourr&ap1ratary-ayelaa.
ﬁﬂtﬁ tha ﬁrwmanénug augmﬁﬂtatian af twitahing er a muaela unit during

aaaluaiaa.

 




' ”I:

III IIIIIIIIIII III: IIII IIIIIII II IIIIIIIII. II II III IIIIIII II

I IIIIIII IIIK IIIIIIIIIIIf IevcralvariIIIII. II III Ixaﬁpiﬂaf.v
IIIIIIIII illuﬁtrﬁﬁﬁaiﬂfi’rI15IXau‘IillIbIIrVQ I IIIIIIIII IIIlIIIIIl‘
IIIIIIII II IIIII‘IIIIIIII IIIIIIIII by IIIIIIII IIIIII III IIIIIIIIIII
IIII II ﬁhﬁyIrﬂntnIu‘I. IIIIrningiqulaaIIuIIIIIIII nauraeallular
IIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIY IfinulaI I15Ihs¥$** 7”* iﬁaraaﬁﬁaaiﬁﬁharge If’,
IIIIIIpiIIIIIyIIIIIn IIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.1I
IIIIII III

IIIIIII IIIIIII If IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII in III IIIIIIIIII IInIIonIr I ‘

IIIIIIIIIII inIIIIIIIII Inﬂele‘wniéhiatimﬁlaﬁaﬁ III IIIIIII PIIGIIGPG; IhIII

" MEI fI’ _
II III IIIII IIII I? III IIIIlI IIIII? III IIIIIIIII III faIﬁdeIk It
IIIIIIy'imIIlIII II III inupirIIIranurIII.I,Iagraturniag inulIII III
IIIII rIianrIIIIIIkﬁiIIyirIIxIIII IIIIIfIIIIIIurIIIt IIIIIIIIIZI III
IIII halﬂﬁIGIIrIIIIiﬂIIIIIIngmaahaﬁigglfIIiIIIﬁIIIé f

III IIIIII indIhiIhIh13.tgpeaf IIIIIIIIKIIIIIIIIII IIJIII IIIIIIII
If inIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiaI II IIIIIIIIIl rIquirIIIIIaiIIIII IIIIIIII 1?
II IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIII iI III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.
IIII III IIIIIIIIII II‘IIIIItianIr IIIIIhing If I IIIILI unit Inning

IIIIIIIII.

 




'1 (12)-

“?hg filling a! gag mange §urxngiﬁ$p1rmﬁign diwterﬁa tha'yalmenary

atrata§~vagwptmraané ﬁsts ug a_th1ra reinforn§gfa$ﬁ~%ﬁak fa? ﬁhé
atrengtheaingaf 1nagin&tiau aiang the raflﬁx‘ar¢,§1atuﬁ@ﬁ in figura 18.

ﬁimilar feadAbﬁcka oparatg on theaxyiratarygia& @f braaﬁhamg.

ﬁemgary impulaaa arriva aantinually anﬁ 1n graat nrﬁfuﬁiﬁﬁ ﬁﬁ ﬁha
_r95§1rgt¢rg aanﬁar;v1rtually bythahunaraaa a: M11$3ang p§rg§ea9na. This
ahawaraf zagulgea nriglngtaainmanyylan&a ﬁnﬁaéﬂatitutaa tha aawaallad
“ayngptia ﬁrivaawhiah 5J¢§§w tha nﬁuranﬁ. Flgurﬁ 11 ghawa &:gmall fraatimn
at thig‘ﬂriva. Euuwillnatathraaaata a? gangary £1h&ra tgrminatzng eh '
tha aenaritaa at tha ihapiraterw anﬁ_ax$1ratgry ngurwnﬁg yan will glaé
nuts that ﬁhanumber a? synaptic tarminatiana gar gamgavy afferant 93 ﬁha’
'reepaat1VQ naurang variaa. wha agratia ahemagaptgﬁarfarent, $.gg. ta in“
»ataa in raur ingpirﬁﬁary an£.tmw axyir&taryzayaapaaa. ﬁhia arbityﬁry’
allaeatianaanrorms withgrﬁatar strangthanlngaf inayirﬁximn praduaaﬁ_by
gtimuiatian at tha agratia aarV9. ?he ﬁaaiQaptnr,-¢r gala reaagtarafrerent,
tarminatesbythraginapirﬁtaryanabyghraaaxpiuatary syﬁggegg, $3 ,
agragmant wiﬁha morgaqunlralnrareamant at‘braathing yraauaedbylatimun ‘
lgtianef entanacua nervea aﬁah gaﬁha 3&phgn@§a. fhé pulmangry atraﬁah
~ affareat tarminatea in tag: aynapaeaan thanxyimatary nwuraﬁ, anatwﬁ

synapaas-an tug inayiratmvy.naurmng whzaﬁ eﬁnrerﬁa with aha ﬁbﬁarvaﬁian ﬁhah a

 




(13)

étimulatian at tha yulmaﬂary Vagna 1§$r$aﬁﬁﬁ axylratien mara thaﬁ ingpiraklan.a
&na haldsbrﬁathing inthe®3p1ratary ghaﬁe.

ﬁhaaharaatariatia arfaata af atimulﬁtlen afth¢se variatiag at afreru
anta araﬁlxugurataé in figurﬁ 1a; the effaata at ﬁha aaratié affarantaxh,
%ha ugpér frama; thgfaffaatg at namiaeptaraf events in ﬁha aaeanﬁ frama.
aﬁﬁ the affaaﬁﬁ é? tha pulmmnary tﬁratah‘arferenk in thalawwrframa. ’

$h$ gymaptia ﬁriva‘ﬁf tha'raapimgtary aﬁntar 1g kaaumﬁﬁta baa
wallggﬁlanaaaxﬁriva. uaaar agraal aaﬁditiang. It 13 5a r@;re$@ﬁtaa by tha
aphgtrary allaaatien at hing aynaytia tanm1n&t19na ta aha inspiratary
nauvan. and an aqua; nﬁabartatha axglraterynanron, in tia;-a 11. ﬂat .
ahaula aha narm&l ﬁﬁlénaé a? braathing.%aupaat axﬁerimanﬁully in faﬁer
9f insyiratiaﬁ afar ﬁxpiratiaa. thgféspivateryanntarlnaea‘allaenaa cf
grapartian; it baaamaa‘aa nnreaaanablaasa gtauaah rapubliagn er a ataunah
ﬁamaérmt. It iﬁna langar ab1§%e éaé.$§£h eida; at theprablxs a: hraathing.
it gaga anly ane giae af aha grablﬁm. Itinaaeaaaema ﬁg aanrarm withtha ,
ganaral yrlmaipla laia ﬁawn.by paymhalagista that aaa aaaa an&‘heargthat

whiah m¢aﬁg-with aha imaeé1&ta intantian.

 




[um

Thlﬁ unnaualsitmatian in hrgathlng wag'aﬁaauntarim by agmhggimﬂ tha
.érfeam 11¢: hm mmmmm air-mmm mwm.’ w m: alvlugtzrma mm mm '
aarﬁtxdaaaaupariof léryﬁgﬁal marvea in figuﬁa l9. Theaa«»ﬁaé nﬁwva
ariginﬁtagin ﬁha aaratidboay whiah ﬂen$@a aaﬁartaga efaxyganin tug
blaaa and whipa ﬁg brmaﬁh1;: whan axygen.an ﬂagraa. Kleatriaalﬁﬁxmugaalen’
'arthig‘nervs inaraaaaa the ﬁap$h 0fiﬂ3ﬁ3ﬁ§tlﬁﬁ anﬁ @r ﬁxpirmtian. aa aaaa
.v1n tha up» ana‘ﬁawngtrakﬁ waggaaﬁivgiy ortha keg ranérd.‘ Tha gagariar
‘ laryngealnarva earriaaaansary impulaaa giving riaa 3% the gaugﬂ raflax.
andwhanatimulataé aleatriaally, yréduaaa a Quétainaa QXpiratlan;ﬁuah aa
reeeraea 1n thé aaaan&'§r&m8.h whaa next. gtimulatian er tha aaratld narva
. 1a aﬁéad £9 £3 already axiating.gtlmu1azianat thaauperlar laryngaal; at
ﬁne arraw 39$? tha Inwarframg; ;t_h§5 but gag gfféat, nam&;y, a atrwngth,
enzng 9f thé pravailingéxp1r&tiahlnitiatéaﬁy tagauparierl&ryngealnarva.
$ha inayirateryTaffﬁwt a? the aaratianﬁrva is ééﬂygf;ﬁif missing. Tﬁia wag
1a gtartling finding and impréaﬁaa me.aa daciﬁeély $1gnif;aaﬂt. ﬁlthnugh
the luagﬁ hgva ﬁuat'hean emptied. anﬁ althmugh tha earﬁtid 13.3 pawgrful
iaagirazary nayve, preciaua air is nevarthalega.a~;g¢x;
whan’tha 3%ranxa_signalg &rr1va. fha raayiratary mentar aaga inﬁeaﬁawam  

,bant upan axpiring.

 




(‘15.)

$ar lank af.t1mawaw111 rarwga ﬁhaalaatvlagl axylanatian a: this

phanamanananaemnaxaar anagraﬁiaal ayyliaatianate hﬁman.hahaviér. §he
.>~;:wm itthéaxpiratavy ﬁ&1f~aeﬁta§ ﬁe aheaxyirataryeamponentgf

thaaaratid narva;y‘ tha Wﬂjﬁihqg@g_§@1&19£ the raaxpraaally inﬂibiﬁaﬂ
inﬁgirﬁtary ﬁalrwcantar ta tha mars pewerfulinapiratary aﬁmganant at ﬁhﬁ
' warﬁtia nérva.wau1a aypaar ﬁe hﬁva their cauﬁtarﬁarﬁ in ﬁuman paychalagy.
f@r thﬁy ﬁ$gplay the ﬁaramarka arthg opananﬂ7ilgggdm1nﬁ. In the apen
minﬁ; aa in tha azpiratar? atater duringaxyiratary imbalﬁnae;avery stimnu
lug wauld.gaam té whip uptha immadiata intention. in ﬁne aleeadmina; as
lin the reeiyraaally lamibited inggarﬁtory aanﬁar éaring axpiratnryimbalaneo. 
- avary atimulua wéulﬁ aeamt@ Ea ignared. ﬁnariateMptaa tQ'aanalﬁar the V
yeaaibilitythat intgrlaakingagt higher levala.pessaasedof gangequanaea
illuatratad innurfigure; may batha baaia at‘tha imparfeetionawfthamind  
graaantlyjaapnrdiaing ﬁha.£utur¢ at man. . 1

Tha “wiéaama artheﬂédy;“ ga-eallaa by the latswalterﬁ.ﬂannon; like
Vthﬁ ”Wiﬁﬁémaaf tha Mina;"reaat ﬁg tha ghyaieal ané chamicalfareaﬁaf
naturein‘maatraaarkablewaya. ﬁanaiﬂev; e.g.. thé curveﬁarchaa ana
f vertieal aupﬁortaarthe'tamurghiahbaap#haatreaaeaand aﬁraiaa impaaed

.n.

uyan them._ga111ustrated in $‘Amay $hamyaan'a‘beak an’ﬂrawth and Fenm,”

figure 20,7§a6h&n;¢alieﬁéinaern‘tall uafthnt‘tne'h§adgafthe femur 13'

 




<1§;'

mathamaxiaaxiy'aamracﬁ and thaﬁ it.amn§arma_with $heiﬁwa1arane. Ana,
laat we raraat thathur akalatana araliving; yam arﬁraminﬁaé that &
famur; whan %rakan; rammﬁala itﬁﬁlf %@ fall in lina-with tha ﬂaw aygmam a?
rereea ara&tadhy tha fraatura.

aanaiﬁar anathar at thenumgraumﬂﬁiadema aftha ﬁedy.” the mathamatiaally .
agrraet atr¢amlin1iggf thamaékwr&1.$aiﬁ 3@ ha tha a§$aﬂigaz ﬁxah.gy thg '
aavan ﬁaaa.(ﬁaaf1éur%'21.} “ ‘

’ﬁr e¢né1de§.£h§ sat grﬂ§ula1§n $f_éhg agnwaﬂf C?1gﬁrg 23).

Greguélﬁartha apértiég fiahwh£em grawafiﬁhingtagklerw$ tﬁg tn?
9r ita hgaa anﬁ dang§eaan&ilu§1ngmaisimmaéiataly infrant a? itagawa.

ﬁr eunﬁzéar tn? éeha laeatian a? aha ﬁat. ﬁhat pwﬁaurﬂmr*mf maﬁﬁrn.
raﬁarlomatién. {Figure 23);.giththﬂaia a? gigaﬁtia warg. waﬁﬁiy
aeparated.an‘tha heaﬂ; aﬁﬂ a aanurai maehania& 9f ﬁrimmgulatiem, alua

pawarful vaaal aarﬂa. thia araaﬁura ﬁwaamaa an animatﬂa gmiﬁaﬂ miagilﬁ ta

”it?

buga that fly by night. & runagmantal ﬁiffereana. haw@V&w. ﬂégﬁinnuiﬁhgg

the baﬁ tram tha manuaraatad guided miaailag a? ta@&y. '?h$ tawgﬂﬁ ﬁﬁaamaﬁ

inesrperataﬁ in tha bat.

 




(172.

ﬁgnaory‘argana ganaiﬁiva tn warmth, @na an ﬁ&ﬂh akae a? the vagar'a
naaa; ﬂirﬂeﬁhia $3@&RQ ta thﬁ wgrmwblswaaﬁ pray; Einaaular viaian aha
'aarrgatgva,fag&5§aek ﬂiraat the kﬁﬁgfimher taIniﬁ targaﬁ; vhﬁ nﬁééla at
Vang aeamatrag$ ta haw wﬁwing; &nﬁﬁhe‘ba11 #f'thg pitahﬁr ﬁg ﬁgmﬁ yiaﬁa.
.ﬁut amaa tﬁe balliaan itg way, itiﬁ %ay$naﬁhﬁ aarrwatava gantrﬁl at
fewﬂﬁhﬁek wﬁzgh;g:V%ayarfa¢tien t@ thg bat &n& ﬁhﬁ kimgﬁighﬁr, anﬁ aha.
‘ﬁltéhﬁr igforaaﬁ ta aﬁwéyﬁ thadaclaiem ﬁg ﬁhﬁ umyira.

Thg bragﬂawwguaat&en a? haw the “Eigaamaaf thaﬁvdy” anﬁ tha ”wisﬁema

a? the Eimaﬁmerge anﬁaa 51mg;$ gaggﬁinasaﬁKWhale 1&‘maat invalvaﬂ. -Gne

Wiﬁﬂﬁm,$ﬁﬁﬁﬁltﬁ ha ﬁlraaﬁaﬁ tawarﬁw a gamman.g9&l. $har$maagtrmatlcn a! $‘

ﬁrﬁkwn Ewﬂﬁ-ﬁé’ﬁﬁﬂférm wzﬁhya‘naw agatﬁm aﬁgatzaﬁaeaa&ﬂﬁ‘a%téingé ﬁ'g-ﬁ i”

a aynamia rwaatiﬁn £0 mﬁahgniaal anvireamant. It 13 mﬁ raglasis the
rainfarﬁamﬁnt afg machaniaéily éaéiate& imagifﬂtian. 'Thﬁ aﬂgugzmaat at
ﬁfﬁﬁﬁhiﬁg to a 3&w mamhamiaalaitmatian i5 infinitalyfaatar th$3 tha ‘
kﬁitﬁingaf a‘bana. %mt tha purpaaeiﬁglmilar. V

ﬁragt$r $pe%é :3 an& af $he iagnrtantaharaazeraaniea at nerﬁeua
funeginn. Xﬂhérﬂlmﬁtﬁ aayaaitytairgaet £9 camplex aitu&tiana1aanather‘
imparmmt atraammammig a? theta newaua mmtem. Yet the mm” in mm}:
-tﬁe‘brﬁ3n fanations peéaaaaga'aama arthaautemgtioaharactariatxea afﬁne

knitting a? a bﬂaﬁ.

 




Maxartg 3.5.;whanaakad %y &n gyuir§r_%@ tellthe ggggﬂf
shruggaa hi3 whauléers;and ali thathaawula arfgr inmxyianatian wmath$2 "
nymyhaniasamarggawhan ha aaataﬁ himaalt bafgpa akaybaarﬂ; arathar ammylgx
ragganaa $3 a niaplaaituatlan 2 I

gage ygaréaggx had ﬁne plaaﬁuraaf agg a   ,  ﬁggan&ua‘gf gt..
Lauia. Ha aarrtad war ugrighx p1&n¢, mauntaﬂ an hie haek,aewnthraerlzghta
ﬁt winaingatairointharaarar aura§artménﬁ; whan’ha aama=baek far mwre.
I agxa, “Gaarge; haw in ﬁhawgrld ¢&n ywu aa 1%?“ ﬁp#_h¢ angwaraﬁ.“qh
that’g meaning; Ganaral;a11 yuuhgva £9 a» 1% aauaaglanty.ﬂ %averﬁheleaa;

H‘ﬁhﬂﬁ&'%hﬁ witnagaea thiaparfermanae gmw mare than kﬁuta fawue. It wme~
,  ’genius.

ﬁa‘harn um havg the wtédam a! thabadyin aha haﬁﬂ at Ema famur. ﬁﬂé
tha'wigdmmef the mind in tha Qantas a! ﬁeaart aad Qaargaf 1

Tha angliaatxan a! tha aiaeallanéaua*wiﬁaamsaf tha bway‘by thg hra1a*..
9? man is; ta ma, aha a? ﬁha man: intaraating phanamsna a? naﬁurﬁ. It
wﬁuld 969m v¢ry agar ﬁha truﬁh %h§t an intallaeﬁ has arrivaa virtua;ly eaya
dbl: a! aamprahanaing natﬁra‘ir aplriéﬁal waléas are an¢1uﬂaﬂ.

' - 13m ‘ _ ~ , _

aama @f tug baay aha at thQ'M1ﬁafhﬁV°¢.byatrﬁngaairaumatanaa,i§eaaaﬂha  ‘

gregt preblama of the éay. '_'

 




' (1.9)

Pﬁnyinhaaf; gariaiant 1n.taa§h‘an& alga; inferier 1n atrength¢na
agﬁgé, laaking in fur aha araar gndvanam; %anhas au@lieated.all a: ﬁhaaa
aam £5! 1&1?ng m _ '7. ‘ :   . , €115   3;;9533 1mm gﬁrﬁg -'
iﬁﬁ mar ﬁﬁa maakgrelg ﬁhﬁ Attprayulaxmn anﬁ,amaxa garganar tha aquia;
tha aahalaaatian a? thﬂ haﬁg ﬁhﬂ»phyaiaai pawar a? therhinnaﬁrauagallaf'
wﬁiahwarobuiltinta ﬁﬁa_a;;gﬁ§xgg at thanaaraaturua by hundréaa at
1’ miliiaagar yaaraﬁfav¢zutaan, havé wxﬁhgu rgaantymara baaemg availablﬁ
ﬁﬁ man as&rt1f1e1allya@gliradmgaautremantaat 11§1ng ana affightlng.
Theggmgrvalaaaamd wtakﬁdgmagatn; svawn i by atamia ana hydragan bank; :
mnﬂ 1ng@aiwus‘wia1¢giaal ﬁganﬁa at agath. hava'baan maﬁa available t9 Eng
Aunpraparaﬁ wwakiang wiﬁhunaxgaataasuééennans. V

$hg,§anggra a? ﬁhaaaznaﬁrumﬁntﬁ a? éeatruatian are greaantly apparw
meatlnthaminaeof thﬁwéiaa, but a-vastly graaﬁar. a far‘mere angaaioua,
ﬂangerthré“ can. ﬁn averpepulataﬁ-planat; uﬁabla ta aftar reapeutabla
subaiatanao t9 itepraaanuinhabitants. ia'faraea tagrovide far an
avgrwznmraaaxngnumbar Qt gsgaﬁa. Mania ineregaingatthaaetounaing raté
'ﬁf ﬁlﬁtyvﬁ13~tthauaand parﬁuy; ar=twsnty~f1vamxllienayaar;litarnlly 1
a bialagiaal axyleaian. ﬂvappapulatiaaxaaamattmaa raferredtoag the]

“ “Q“‘bamb. (In‘ﬁha eff¢c£a*wh1ah ityraduaaa an tha human tame. 1% 1g

 




' (a)

inﬁaga ﬁne.m¢at ﬁxplagzve afthe manwﬁﬁﬁe $¢m§a. Eaahyeﬁr, ﬁwanﬁwaiva
millionnawnamars.requiringat leaattwenty*f1vamillian&¢raa 3f arahlw
1&u& farﬁhairaubaiatanae, are fareaé thrm ah ﬁg {gait at ahair @%h, t@
aempeta far what rightru11§%$1a§ga tothaﬁillians giraaﬁy an tha ﬁeeaaa
V . Yatyau an& X, atill

"engeying tha unwrarts‘efa rieﬁ land,aaaraely‘appreaxata ﬁne atugﬁnaaag
aramg that inunfalﬁing. ‘

ﬁarﬁ Thamaa ﬁugzin héra haa@ula ralatehﬁweuaily'aamlagzaal balanaaﬁ
ara upaat,fari$ was %a wha imkﬁrﬁaaﬁwentywtaar'wila rﬁhﬁlta_1nt¢ﬁu3w
traliain 1859. ﬁha rabbiﬁa »gthabst%er ar‘it far a t1m9;r@r thgy_
they hga arrivaa in tha‘islanﬁ a? Htapia at na,praa&tara. ﬁhay wara‘truly'
nan the aol$;and a3 they'gaﬁa want ta thﬁlr pawérs a? rayrwﬁuatian thay
everrﬁnkﬁstrmlia,ana milliaaa anﬁmillianawara ta ﬁﬁriah at the nanaar
. $5h. it 1£ @bvaéuQ $ha£ nalﬁherhuagin aﬁr tha rabhisa gnaw what ﬁhay
wmra $b¢ut. I

@henameaaéina;ankthgbmghar ganﬁ;vgnquighe¢ anaprﬁdataref'munafter
anathar;ﬁniahis_nmtn1ﬁgmar§ thug Rabbitﬂ;¢piﬁibyagianggflah§ppraaah;

 1t is grasumed that saiﬁnaa knewa what—it i3 ahaut. ?h&ﬂ maaiaal ragaarﬁh

raﬁehas a.prarieienaywhich it aaunat uaa'ﬁlaaly gna~humaﬁiﬁy. it waula

 




can.)

saﬁm tiwa.ta gall a'halt barﬁnaamaaac at m@ﬁ1¢3& reﬁearah.unt11 mars:

abligatiaag ﬁava aaughﬁ up with faghﬁﬁlﬁﬁyi ﬁt daaa andaad aaam likaly

that.a trgnafar atpragant fwdaral gupmmrt af‘maalaal rwaaarah ﬁa maﬁiaal
ﬂare;during‘prQeantaritiaalaéjusnuant ﬁdewmtlena ta makiaaltaehnalagy.
vauld prmva'ha ha &n_¢a% at aeray.

Xndia; 113a all aﬁhavaauntriﬁa. 1a insraaaingin papulatian; abaut
Examillianparygar. ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ at’a m iiaél séhéai. aha visiteamnreeantly;
‘ vglunteeradthalnfesgauian ﬁhgt th;&‘in¢rﬁaga was duetenn“§myrnvamgnt
a! madiaine.”£9rafé¢a§r¢f @hygialagy.mlséfrmmxnaia,uaXprasaaﬁ ta
ma tha‘raarﬁhat aha Unitaﬁﬁtatunwaa @baut ﬁg rayaaﬁ thazmiatgkaa ax
' Inﬁta.ﬁa ralﬁ very atrmﬁgly'ﬁhat a raduaﬁiaa at tha pmynlatian er Inaia
tﬁ‘gnauhmlf thapraaent nuabara wanld batha graaieaﬁ blaaaxng that aau1a
’ba baatwwmd an big @amntry. ‘

Vagthaa gallgéattentlanta the gapulatian prablam in Fuerte Esaoaa
’ fwlléwa: '“in many pgrta a? aha warlé; aaatarwapyly thair intelliganaa
ta ane‘&gp¢¢t.af man’a walfara anﬁ ﬁeny shat» maral righk.ta apply it ta
~ tha prﬁblam agawhola. @hraughmaaiaal aara and imprwvea aanitacion thay
are raaponaibla far maremilliana livgng mar» yaara 1n anaraaeing aisary.
Thalrrafuaaltm aanaidav thairraaponaibilityln thsaamattera daea not

aaam ta thaw galaampramzaa thair intallaatual inmagrity. Thay harm beﬁn‘

 




1111'

111111111 11110113111 111‘111111 111111 1111, 111 1111111, 111 11 111 1111
111111111 11111 11 111 1111 11 111 11111 11 111111111 1111111111 111111 111
11111111 111111 11 111111 11111111111; 111 11111 1111111 1111111 11 1111111
.111 111111111‘111 111 1111 11111111 111111: [1111 111 111 11111 111 11111111.‘
1111 1111 111111,1103 1111 1111 11111111111 111111111111:“

i 111111p111111n 11 1111111111 11 11 111 1111 111111 1111111 11111 11
11111111111 11 111 1111111 11111111 in 1111113. 111111, 11 ”111 111111111
111111.31111, 11 “11111 11111111y,111 111111 1111111,”11111y. 11
”111111111 11111111,"1111111. 11 ”111 1111 1111111111,“ 1111111 111
1111 ofﬁbi11111111 11111111111111 1111111111111111.

‘ It 11 1111111 111 1111'111 11in 11111111 11 111 111111 11 111111
.11111 11111111111 111-1111111 111 11:1;2;, 11111111 111 1*111111 111 1111111 1
- 11 11111111111111 11 1111111, 11 11111111, 11_1111111111 111 1111111111n
1r 11111y1111; 11 111111111 11 111 1111;11 111 1111111 p2] 111111111 .

1111111 111 in thaun1111111111311111111 111 1111111111 11 1111111111, 11

1111111 111111113.’11*1111 1111, 11.1111111111111111; 111 1111111111111

111111111111 1111111 f111,pﬁﬂulﬁtiaﬁ 1111111111 11111111111. 111111111

11r11n1. 11111~1111 111,a:

 




(as)

Jahn ﬁtuarg R111 wag 6! tbs £91LQW1ﬁg §91ﬂ10ﬂ8 “fha ﬁanaity at pepw

ulatiaa naaeaaary'va‘endhla mankinﬁ ta QEtQAn in tha higheataﬁgrae.gll af'
tha advanﬁagaa'hathafaaﬂyeratxen :«1 a? aaaiallntarﬁournihaa,1n $11
ﬁhaaaaﬁ géﬁulaug eauatries;haan aﬁﬁatnaﬁg’ Awpapulatiaﬁmay'ba toe
arexﬁeﬁ; thamgh all bﬁ amylyanpyiiad withrawﬁ aaﬂraiman%.it in hat
a? tar-mam ta ﬁg aapﬁ parfarneat ali tzmaa in ﬁhﬁ praaanaeof hie apaalaa.\é
' 9- 5 an , in extirgmtaé. m a. ' wry may Meal. ‘3' '

%hy; may waaak; is amaiatyeai;é1tfarant ta thma vitalyyablaa ?'
Lika all~manmwaa§ ﬁreﬁlmwa. Cya=aasuar.muat'hw aaughﬁin ﬁbagna§ura at man.
ﬁrhasﬁ A.Hae;§, aneutstanaing auth$r1ty inanthragalagy; diaauaaed ﬁhia
' varyycinﬁ in areaeﬁtaﬁﬁrwas bérare aha Gaga inatitaﬁa affaohnalagy 3%
1%3 &1&m@aé Jubilae. Ran; aaaorﬂlngaa ﬁaeﬁén; “is still a auparwape;
aavaga; graﬁaﬁary. aaqﬁiazuive.przmarily interaatad zn hiaaalf.“

A marﬁ'myﬁimiatia nata;hawavor.waaa¢unﬁad in the augarb aﬁvaneaa
aftaahHQXagyprﬁnenteé attha diameiﬁ Jubilaa. ﬁne gmyarﬁagaribeaan
algetégia ﬁaviaa whiahaaulé play as talarably gar; g&ma at aheekgra.§

‘ ﬂag in ﬁantan'a apinian;th¢natura¢r man'avarshaﬂawz all ahallww
ogtimigma of tmghnolegy.‘”?ha @ﬁly pausibility at impraviea aha utilizatianvli
armaahinaa;” in tha wévda 9f Homtgt“11¢uintha imprevemaht a? man

/\

 




 

ﬁn 1mgrtvaménﬁ at man waaprmyaaadhy ayplying ta ﬁha humangpaaiasr
tha breaazngrmaﬁhnggmanhaa §@?1a@& ta impra§a big dameatlﬁanimala.
Hwatwn,hwwavar. a§ﬂ§w thgt, “gﬁ 1& %a1ata galutiaa at human alffiaultiaa
by turaiﬁgaut b§t%gr‘bme§&af¢f‘ﬁqngﬁ1¢ n9t.1namghf.‘
g ﬁenaergwa arrth ;n§ha gawk a? auaiaty ﬁa'ﬁringahautgreatar
' humananaaamight paaalb15maat thggrava ﬁxtuatien whzah f&ea3 it. 2% may;
in fact; b$ tbs g5,n;rwaﬁ t® galavt;an. Inﬁhia affart.ﬁadiaina. wﬁaaa
ggmrn aath 1g kahu%anity;‘baaamea a lagiaalla&awr. éna whanwediaine
' ﬂréaﬁana 1tg§aint af‘#1aw it will he beatfittwa ta adviaa. it muat aama
$9 aﬁpraaigte the ﬁwwaging faraas at evalutiem. 1% mnat‘aama to raaagniaa
the f&aﬁ that it iatha narmalhaaltyataﬁa @f'man; Ema net aiaeaae; that
Ipaﬁﬁ$ tag majar prmbiam& at aivilizaﬁian. It muaﬁ fiﬁd waya ar weaving 1&3
3H rﬁawanaihilitlea toﬁﬁaiaty.
$3 allaw'mé ta aaa this talk.aa I ﬁg agah yaar in.a laaﬂurs kn tbs
 ’$$nt$ gm phyaialnz~on “Qua ﬁtalogiaglAﬁpanﬁs atﬁeﬁzeine.“
”whamgriaulyvareanlen peasaﬁs&aareﬁtarpatemtial influanaa evar the
destiny af‘manthaathut at any char pratsamtan. ‘ﬁha graat mmeara at thﬁ

Iggygagian, n15 praaanae in.a11 aammunltiaa, tha intimacy of hia aentaata.

 

i ‘§ §t‘h1m enﬁlaag aypertuaities. 'Eut ha muat taka tha ﬁaﬁh at ﬁippaerﬁtsa ta
7 i5i  I 1na1v1daal.-
aj5 1ma aw aonuniantaaualy :3 he takaa tha Oath a? Blpgaerataa ta tag [  : ;

"’ x ' . m ..'.-;:‘*."'.._3 ' .. V
‘ a ',x , . 1 "'L‘. ..",_":‘-‘“:h 7 -. . " '

‘~_'

 




-- a:
.5 X _ 4-‘
‘4... !(

cw;
‘n .,‘
.h n'" ‘
\n, w

 




/-'

- ~5L n
{‘ﬁﬁﬁ' "

‘ “F.
‘ﬁau.

«s

. 3

 




72:
*4
J

N '“c
m, \n

"Ja'wuw ‘

1 . ‘
L ”ﬂy
”u "3'
.1-

 




-
“O’v
.

‘
ﬂ IPA-luv
, (.H

 




." ,9 f v I‘lm‘l‘n
I ﬁg 535’ in; :4—
.v ,

I? ' 1.3"“?

 




,x‘

L
‘35
‘ {a

W

 




  @2228 1am; ‘iheritagq is _ j

an 91' 922 and 532912312142 _ matter

4: awhmmms rm 133’

:a , 12:13 estimated 229.2 the ‘1

 




’ *9 mam-hm . "

f ' Wfather arri

‘ rm ¥ - .. A

 




 




.V termite --,- , x

I an”; ‘khusbaﬂm, Wm it nag hf: ext e
’ than ééévﬁnt caﬁ. . V
” the Mr W W:
Wu ma law a! 6 in“? (1me ”a 2 e :  "
A has: laft themmaghmm‘féfl‘éb' , .. ,
m relevant hm '
‘~ - ’ “pm meﬁdmmmmgmm‘i ‘  ,
" the em of tee” hmmm ‘ '   ‘
I g ., set” 61’ 7 W “W88 'mméﬁat'mefii; ‘ A
' 1 1’3me awaﬁeftheplmﬂtm ” ;i . ‘V ‘

- n

 




V I h by mam-1t .} _
ms 331% a! (GA: “$11. :at M" pagans,“ mama”? ta _
  A "that gﬁweﬁ 3 V.“ x -' Z. ' ' ’
‘V ' rmaax i; 5 was mtrmmn attaineé. A
V tmlriage’nﬁg my his 893013”. A A

~ m m Am hm AAAAAAAA AA“ AAA

’ ’ that ' maid be

‘ an pepulatien

Pussdaswﬂ mind ’giié T pligm M . Ina *

‘ 2 , a; bi. at mud;

 




a» . 41‘ ‘B . . ‘ r, _‘ - 12,,- . : 4H; 1., >. _ ‘ ‘. , ,. i , x

‘ ‘mwmﬂbﬂmwa 95' " 7 - ‘ *

@ﬁmaintmémﬁ ‘

. ”In mwpms a: thBWJﬁ-d ‘

mw°nﬁiblafwm . _ ,
, ' fwwf me e .  . ‘

 




' ad 1:9 keg? abmaak at ,
h with a ﬂaw
a @133 them are :16 Minus abjmtms

)ﬁtthat ﬁmpmaﬁﬂt mama” at? ; .,._- - ‘

' ' t; wmcnma States. If. u thai ather _' ‘ hand;

. ma dastme‘tv

 




' ’ mam m» ,. ,

Wabstar, ”T116 891%” .

1315?th ‘

' " ; ear. m gar mm m

x'

. : at?“ 3.11:5 .. ta 1 , " .1

 




; n? snnInIn-‘i

f 361' has.) 121; 1.an at“ far ,1-1.  , _

‘ ' 15:3,," Manama Mme ” ‘

‘ = ' ' thew-In In m arenas”: a -

, , .. Ilntnzsgj * '

a“%bbitn: 39“” tn, mam, gnaw, a, phnmta, aha; when w

t ' the “”8353” at is: thin leak of mutt-maths analysia at the actvm ages to ,

‘5”an an“ nnnwm In man-Imam: ‘ 1 1c,   m aaaimn of

 




_ ,. . ‘ ~__ ‘ .

\ , _  . . .. _ -A 3. ‘_ , ‘_
. ' ' .a» a. . 1 . '

' ' '. ' i' ’a

x 3 , ,5
k .
A
‘

" 7 Wm” M Barmmw dim!» u

- _. 7.7.. _ ‘ ,. ‘7 . ‘ ‘ l .H ' -, « ‘..,-m:v x , ‘ ‘ .~._‘ _‘ l' ‘ m.“ ~:,. ,. "“._"H."‘ ‘ " ' ' " x ' ' “' ' 'i' V ‘
V, y ,l ,K' , f" f. '7 ' ‘ ,_ _ 1 a;-A -' \ , ,. 3; . “I ‘ '
ﬂ ,' - i . " ‘- " - '~' . .1
’ ‘ > .' , _ x - ~ ‘ .‘ . ‘ ‘ ' " 1
' 7‘ . I. ,> I ‘

 




I _  .   (3.1}?
‘ " 4: pasI III   I3 IIIIIII _ IMIIII

r 3:116 IIIIII I >- -

, 2" mat I'm: {In a man

  - IIxii-Ial IIieI‘III IIIIIIII ' “the _ II

' II‘bIII III ' IIIII held in chwk, but I:
IIIIIII II ' ’ IIIII II IIIIIIry IIIIIIIIW IIIII I as, was: III III: literally

. I * Ind—III; III 92.5mm Ia III: was mama: m a2.- III M

; I III III: III I IJIIIII III IIII‘III I IIIIIIIIII: III IIIIIIII III I u

‘ mm what II unfmﬁ Iefara m: M Imam y “1193': m wad tha wings;
"lizjkz: in Ir F‘mﬁemﬁ Fa met, ‘1 ' _.<-T -. t9 311mm,“ we}

 




" farm“ "li'ué " ' '

 




¥ ' HM mmm m1:
* 9' m a as “the 32mm

”‘ "am: an ' inatment am! an ‘ '

ﬁlms: genuine the mag ” -

 




* - .155: 3% 19m ,4 '

'-\

' maamémm

‘ , " at ha - ~
' ‘ , ." ' ‘. -. y .' . z w
' A ‘.— “;"-““ '3‘ L ,,.,.‘ > ‘ _ ‘x 'A.,» v.’ ‘.

meoma,‘ ma 31mg

ymparimy .1; . . ,

a: ma». ‘ ’i‘hm _ ' , '

 




mterlmhaémws . . . V
”v Tia-‘3‘“? "defeats-“mate  ‘  7 N j 7   5' { } _ , ‘ , _emt @616?“an ,
rém’aﬁbrh flag???“ Wtinu‘E’V ~ . F: x ea mane unit. well 0031-

  8“ me, meﬁiemméﬁe ' therefore: Wham itself? ﬂthf the

t e: the eiek Health: 5” -‘

as“ greater

I

’ I, f “Marti-“Mme” teeth theme mat

 




 




Framﬁ Annals of Allergy, Harchnhpril, 1953

111110111 H 11: 111113 11311 1:13:11

Of interest to all allergists ara the following remarks maﬁa by Dr. Habert
Gesell, Professor 0f PHysialogy, University of Hizﬁigan, Ann Arbor, Hichigan.
Since practically all fundamental investigation8;in allergy arg performed on tha
lower animal, it is imperative that attention be called to the Histurbing situation
created by the Hatianal Sociaty far Hedical Hesearch.

"On February 25, 1952, I Callad attentian to recent abuses in animal Hmparin1nnta~
tion published in THE LAHCET. .Hm April 15, I addressed the Amﬁrican PhysiolH Hical
Society 011 the same subj act.

“Fhe Hational Society fer Hedical Research has tern isgue with both statements
and, in its letter cf September 17, 1952, to the msmbers of the Federation,13tated
that 'Dr. Gesell’s charges covered seven broaH points.

"ThESH points inevitably resolve themaelveﬁ in.to but one issueuulnhumanity
versus Humanity. I thaught this idea was clearly stated in.my remarks of.April 15
which fallcw:

”The National Saciety for Medical Resaarch would have us believe that there is
an important issue in.vivisection versus antivivisection.

"To a physiologist there can be no issue an vivisectian per He.

”The raal and urgent issue is humanity veraus inhumanity in tHH USG of axperi»
mental animalﬁ.

"But the HSHR attaches a stigma of antiavivisecticn tazany semblance of humanity;

"Antivivisectien is their indispensable bogie which must be kept befere the
public at any cost.‘

”It is their only‘avenue towards unlimited procuremsnt of animals for unlimitad
and uncontrolled experimentation..

”The HSHF has Had but one idea sinbe its organization, namelybte previde an
inexhaustible number of animal.s to an ever grmwinH crowd of career scienti3ts with
but little biological background and scant 1ntarest in the future of man.

"Consider what'we are deing in tha name of science, and the issue will be clear§
“He are drowning and suffocating unanaesthetized animals~~in the name of science.

"He are determining the amount of abuse that life will endure in unanesthetized
animals-in the anme of science.

”we are producing frustration ulcers in exper1mﬁntal animals under shocking con~
ditions~~1n the name 0f science.

"Wk are observing animals ior weeks, Hnnths or even years under 1n1amous con»
ditions~~in the name of science.

”Yet it is the Hativnal Seciety fbrl Hedical Research and its HeW‘Iork satellite
that are providing the means to these ends. /

"And how'is this beinv.a¢co.alihhed?

 




THIN? AWN“ ~~DOIT OF TEK.‘ ANIVﬁT '”‘v%"* 73””VTNET
350 Fiﬁ h Avenue, 7ZJew York 1,31ew York
(Jn13 1, 195310 June 30,10'1)
1 J 1133111511 $311118

project undert.ken by the.Animel Nelfare Institute during its third year
was the oreperetion and distribution of a thirtyesix page il1u Ma ed manual entitle
"Basic Care of neor1m~n5a1.Animels” uh: oh Was designer.for nse'by the men and women
who telie oezre of laboreto.y animalsg ’rltufi 1n nonwteoonioeJW JQ'C, it provides basic
informatio on Nisoaee preventi -on, Fepilrge handling, housing, breedinﬂ and euthanasia
and includes refs ereiioes to more ieta11uo t oxts. Fron.the time of'its publication in
November t111 the end of the fiscal year, June 3QJ 19 5b, a total of11,99h cop ies had
been sent on reﬁne t +0 scientific institutions ironrn01t the United States as well as

many foreign countries including.1nstralia, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Greet Britain,

odes, hpbqnon, ﬁlveris, the Philippines3 Southern Rhodesia and Yugoslaviaa In addition to

medical schools, J etrn ry'meﬂieel sch - and agricnltnral colleges, requests lave been

rooervsﬂ from government ano noso1581 laboratories, liiorator1~s enrayeo in ind1strial
'. proonotion of pharma'; enti“als, libiaries and Tounrationse Reviewéor
science” enﬁo”Soj 5noe Newsletter" end3 in onelen , in ‘The Courier” of the
Univere itiies Federetion for Animals Heifers, and "The Gazette" of the Institute
xeéwoel Laboratory Technology'were resoo1s101e for brinwioe the manual to the attention
of nany’soientiets and technmo11ne and the Institnt » is very app wzeoia ive of this

assistance.

SONMCLEL Eﬂn “ A,T%5AIJ , TNQF
in addition to diegeninatiwg 1n1ormet1>n on wooﬂ anime] care, the Institute has'
oontinneﬂ its CLuu 1 the design and construction of animal quarters and has proviied
iraain(s EEK 13 o o : '1: e; «s ;; this subject to a nuMber of laboratories request”
ing advice.
The nu: erons perSonal visits maﬂe by representativ5s of the In stii tote to 3aooratory
animal quarters during the last three ye are have contributed substantially to the know-

ledzu eoes::szy for tnis advisory service. This year they visited laboratories in six

 




."xu
“m.

states and the District of Columbia and net with scientist ani animal protectivew01*1:ers
in various parts of this countr3 as well as Canad_a and Pnelson. As in.previous years,

enormous variations in the kind of housir“ and care accordei aniri als in oi:fferent

l,...
V

nstitutions were noted, disex sed.animals in dirty,_dar1 cramped one rters hein” accepted

as a matter of course in one institution just asinell~-cd arimcls in roomy, Poniortaolc

clean quarters are the rule in another»

he PHYSIOLOGICAL SsCII TI’S W EIHG BEIICIDLIT
An important step toward? raising standards in impr ope; r13 operated laboratories is

the ”Guiding Principles in the Care and Use of.ﬁninals" approved by the Council of the

American Physiological Society; and distributed to all of its meaibers this winter

Following the presentation of a short statement at the annual meeting of the Society in

i

1952 on the urgent need Tor the protection of exoerinental animals against cruel eat»

7‘“,
i

ment, a committee was formed to study the problems The late or, Rober Gesell, a member
of the Advisory‘commit tee of the Animal 'ellare Institu e, made the originals tatement,
and he met with members of the committee for a i T ussions. Dr. Hiram.EsseX,
PresiientmElect of the Physiological Societykdes erves the greatest credit for his work

in the preparation of the Guiding Principles which are repriited'below.

(Gniiin~ Principles m in fﬂi

THE SCHWFITZEB MEDAL

In Ucto‘oer, the Institute announced the creation ofla meial honoring Dr. Albert
Schweits zer, the world-famvus physician, m:nister, musician and writeri ho hrnnr»t modern
medical aid to the natives of French Innatorial Africa. His Great moral phil iosonhy oi
"Reverence for Life" teaches kindness and consideration for animals just as For human
beings. The primany purpose of the Schwei ser medal is to encourage progress in laboratory

animal welfare, and it will be awarded annually in recognition of an outstanding

contribution to the humane treatment of anirnals. The medal is the work of the scnlotor,

‘s Gustavchohla and, and it is pictured on the front and can k covers of this annual report.

 




Dr. Schweitzer'wrote in res ponse to a request that the Institut enight be permitted
to have the :faed al struck, ’I am profoundly moved that you should wish to give my name
the medal. I o ve you this right with all my heart. I should never have thought
that my philosophy, which embodies our compassionate attitude toward all.creatures,
would.be noticed and recognized during my lifetime. I kneW'that this truth: would
iW>ose itself one day on thoughtg but it is the great and moving surprise of my life that

I should be the witno as of the progress of ethics. Your medal celebrates this progress:

5.!

philosophy obliged to intervene for animals when up until now it has shown so little

interest in them.e“

.iJT 337’s (i4 Aiilfiﬂil ‘”IE}L.E
Information Reports were published and distributed by the Institute everyino months,
Ml3ra and line.3t to eX3'Jerimental biolw ists, humane societies, veterinarians,
libraries, and other individuals and groups interestei in science and animal protectiona
The short articles appearing in this publication dealt mainly with laboratory animals.
Animals used_£or food also received consi lerable attention in relation to the develop-
enplioation of humane slaughtering methodsa A summary of the material which

in last year's Information Reports follows after the listing of Conventions and

heetings attended by Institute representatives.

armour an“ R

“The Animal welfare lnstitute’suore.is entirely supported by charitable contributions

.1.

and membership fees. These latter fees were used exclusively to pay for the oublication

of Bw ic Care of Experimental.Aninals“ which has brought information on the humane care
of animals into hundreds of laboratories. Special gifts by'two members made possible the
striking of the Schweitzer Medal.

Contributions to the.Animal welfare Institute are deductible in computing income tax
returns, and donations, larte qe or smallyare most grateful] y'accepted for the general fund

or for soecial purposes. The extension of the Institute's much needed work depends upon

such support.

 




“TV”TTCJB Aim N2 leh S

New York State Humane Association, New York City (September 28, 1993)
Animal Jelt re Institute Annilal Iceting, L w York City (Clot ober l, l953)
American Humane.Association Convention, Denver, Colo. (October 7~10319§3)
American Humane Association Committee on.Animal 85'?

(October 8, 1953); Cleveland Ohio (22:23 21 19:13)
National Dog welfare Guild, NeW'York City
Animal Care Panel, Chicago, Illinois (December
Laboratory'Animals Bureau Congress, Sheffield3 g dilly oril Swé, lQSL.
Animal Technicians Association Annual Meeting, Sheffieldjlhgland (April
Universities Federation for Animal welfare Congress, London, England.(ﬁpr'

hidwest Hume ne Conierence, Clovelanﬂ, Ohio,(hay 21-22, l9§h)

EWFMARE OF INFORWATION REPGRTS
The bi~monthly Infoi‘mation.Reports issued.by the Institute brought to the attention
of readers material on the housing, care, procurement and.treatment of laboratory animals.

The need for raising standards in all of these is o. not onl;3r for the sake of the

animalspbut also for the sake of scientif' . l ; a_i the reduction of unnecessary

repetition of experiments was shown.

"Some Con milerations in Selection and housing: of “vooximeotal Dogs” was
of an.article in the September-October Report'which quoted Drs Clivet chCay
of Nutrition of the Teoartment of Animal Husbandry at Cornell Universitdﬂcs saying;
"My own belief is that much of the dog research of the past is questionable becaus of
the poor quality of the dogs and the poor housing of the experimental animals. I am
Convinced that much of the m edical school research with animals must ultimately be
done on farms because the cost of land, buildings and labor makes gooo.care and.housing
very difficult in congested cities.” Dr. Alastair h. Worden3 “Actor of the W nivers itnes
Federation for.Animal Welfare Handbook on the Care and Hans gement of looorutory.Anl-e 0”

ti?

was quoted as follows: ”In addition to the humanitarian aspects, it does seem to me that,

 




-5...

from.the experimental point of View, the advent gas of animals bred in the laboratories
are.overwhelming. Infection is one point, adaptation to prevailing conditions is
another, and yet a third is the known nature of the material with which one is working."

The need for a thorough knowledge of the physical condition, history and heredity

 

 

 

pg experimental animals was discussed at the 1953 Animal Care Panel in Chicago and

 

reported.in the Novemberuhecember Report. A series of papers was presented on controlling
the genetic background f laboratory animals, anda report was made on the activities

of the new Institute of Animal Resources of the National Research Council, headed by

the geneticist, Dr. 0. N. Eaton. One of the organization’s specific objectives is the

improvement of conditions pertaining to the rearing and shipment of animals.

 

 

 

The importance pi competent and well-trained personnel with a_natnral liking for
animals to work in laboratory animal quartens was emphasized in the March—April Report which
gave a first~hand account of the Laboratory Animals Bureau Congress and the annual meeting
of the.Animal Technicians Association in England. The Syllabi for.Associateship and
Fellowship Examinations for.hnimal Technicians were reprinted in this Information
Report and show the impressive amount of knowledge and.skill developed by the men and
women who care for experimental animals in Great Britaine The Report states: "No

1

American who has visited any considerable number of laboratory animal colonies in this
country would fail to be impressed, even astounded, by the individual and collective
calibre of the British Animal Technicians. The firstmrate personnel whose careful

selection and training in some.American laboratories_has led to sound and humane animal

care need take no offense at this.‘ But the fact most be faced that far too large a

proportion of their fellOWS'ln other labOratories are men whose mental and moral shortn
comings, sometimes very serious in themselves, are aggravated by the lack of training

and the lack of respect which is often their lot. Some.American scientists contribute

to this unfortunate situation while others merely suffer from it....Too often, there is

a sharp dividing line to be found where what is thought to be janitor‘S'work ends, and
where science in the form of an experimental procedure begins. The welfare of the animals

involved is thus entirely overlooked. Recognizing this, an.American biologist ruefully

 




-6“

remarked after a tour of a croWded dog room.in his institution: 'Nhat we need is people
to take care of the animals, not_just to take care of the cages.'" The answer to this
prohlem.is clearly shown in a quotation from hr. A. E. hundy, Hon. Secretary of the
Animal Technicians Assoc'ation; "What the nurse is to the hospital patient, the animal
technician is to the laboratory animal. He has a further duty, to record meticulously
all abnormal symptoms observed in the animals under his care and to report them.appropriately.‘i
Three examples of excellent housing for experimental dogs'were cited in the hay—June
Report: The Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research at RahWay, New Jersey, the.Argonne
National Laboratories at Lemont, Illinois and the Radiohiology Laboratcry of the College
of Medicine of the University of Utah. Outside runways connecting by means of self-
ope"ating doors with roomy inside kennels are featured in all. The breeding of Beagle:

for use in chronic experiments is practiced in these insti utions. Theheport states:

"The experimental work in all three institutions referred.to requires the use from.time

to time of metal metabolism.cages, but dogs are not perpetually confined to these cages.
After the testing period is over, it is usual for them.to return to the far less
reStrictive and more comfortable and pleasant kennelwrunsays where, after their period
of solitary confinement, they may again share a kennelnrunway section with some of the
same individuals they were raised with. At the herck Institute, resting boards .re
supplied in all metabolism cages where such provision is possible."

"Retrogression in Laboratory.hnimal Housing" was the title of an article in the
NovemberéDecember Report. It described two new research.buildings which had cost millions
of dollars and which contained animal quarters markedly inferior to those in built
in former years by the same institutions. In both new buildings, dogs are confined to a

single room filled as full as possible with metal cages and without windows, outside
runways, or exercise pens of any kinds The Report stated that the current over—emphasis
on efficiency and mass production appearpto be partially to blame for the construction

of such singularly‘unpleasant animal quarters at such high construction cost. In

another part of the same issue, attention was focussed on the dangers of the ”Onemninutea

oneminch-oneacent-saving approach to animal colony management. No one can deny the value

‘of a proper regard for efficiency and economy in the management of any undertakings

 




-7...

ends in themselves, and have no value unless
to which they are being applied¢ If permitted
to become ends in themselves, the? can act as posit iv ve obst mics to those basic objectives."
1 -e indicated.that on occasion "the real aim of research;1as being forgotten
ani another quite different goal being substituted: that of trying to keep the largest
number of an-mals in the s:mallcst possible space, with the least possible care, on the

cheapest possible rations. Such an objective not only conflicts sharply with ethical

consider1+lo as in the cooinct of research using animals but is incompatible with biological
1. (‘1 \ 1;
4,915,:VIV‘ ”'1’

research of i:he, .ijtax .iality." This and other lnformation.Reports iﬁsﬁiTT.Animal
'ﬁelfare Institute cons 1lte tion on the planning of neW‘ani wal quarts:

An interesting article on inim.l house management was contributed to the November-

m

 

December Report by'Dr. Patricia P. mtt Wino teaches pr ny'sio logy and holds the position of
Curator of the Animal Unit at the Royal Free HOSpital School of Hedicine in London. The
‘Curstor systemVHh described in the article which also geese information on administration
and.staffing and.the daily'lmootire Work of thetsnim1l House Unit. It is well worth a

thorough reading y’orvone responsirle :for experimental animals.

The b0””1€ “mc.ers‘ Orders adopted in the District of Colombia were d.iscos sed in

MI W“.- m‘m

 

detail in the Janoe1ry Eeb11ary Report which also carried an account of testimony
presented.at the Hoe r119 iﬂClLﬂlﬂT the tei t of the statement by the President of the
*nstitute. The following evaluationres made in the Report: "On February 23, l9ih the
Co m1,- ssione idop ted two Orders} one making animals from.the District Pound available
to laboratories} and the other setting up standards on their use and care. It is
regrettable that the procurement provisions sW ested abov e were not adopted (i.e. that
the use of impounded_animals should be limited to nonnsnrvival experiments in which
the animal is first fully ane- othetized and is killed without recovering consciousness);
neverthele 18’ the Commissioners have sh own in the second of these Orders that they

understand the pressing need for protection of laboratory animals. The provisions which

they have n1ade , although incomplete, deserve respectful recognitionz1s one o: the few

thought :ful eff01ts ever made by pucli c officials in. the‘United States to dee l with the

 




-8-

problem.of humane treatment of laboratory‘animals.” Ani:els in the custody of humane
societies are not liable to requisition by uashfngton laboratories. .However, in illinois

where legislation was passed in l9El relatinr to the nroonremnnt of impoun.ded dews ior

9 . . _ , .A
eXperiments, the amendmeni\nhmeh made humane seeieties oeseet from.requisitiona¢as re-

amended without the knowledge of animal protective workers or pet owners. sees

me; war 5

slag islative maneuver Eye ﬁﬁswﬂrmﬁ -as a victcrvﬁhﬁb:ngTwKRCiwﬁEEE the National society
> | «i - " E I, .t 1+" TR, ,:"‘*' : .3 "v 1. if“? if} “ ”i T 2-,"
I q f i ,y 1‘ ﬂ. 3 *va £1 a)”; ; a e ---,a:~‘ . ‘

for Medieallhesearohei The tent oi thelreW'am/ Yoment was given in the hameune Report.
Delegates to the convention oi the.Ameriean Hun:zne essociatienr aiﬁ irmed their orvo itiOL
to animal seizure legislation, nleos"ng themselves to oppose it in a firm, reasonable
and efficient manner with a View to preventing its .W 3,3e m i to discouraging its
introduction in any future year. This resolution aopeare i in full in the Septembern
October Report, The humane society repres tetiv 3 base their stana on moral principle.
Their shelters were erected to protect animals. To:3end the animals they have taken into
their custody to a laboratory'for use in.a painful eXperiment would completely unﬂernine
the ethical basis upon which all humane Work is founded.

Progress in_eliminating pain and fear from the slaughter g£ hogs was reported in
the Ja “ervatebr"arv and baf-JWHP Reports which he scribe the work underway at the Iowa
Sta te Cells one of Agriculture ani Mechanic Arts at.smes, Iowa where a simplified device
for anesthetizing hogs with carbon dioxioe ga.s rior to slat -aer is bei ng Jetted»
The new Danish regulations requiring the anesthexisation of animals prior to slaughter
were also published. To date, however, the George A” hormel Company of,Anstinj Minnesota

is the only.Amerioan meat packing company'whieh anesthetizes all of its hogs. It is to

be hopes that others will follow its example within the coming year.

Animal Jelfare Institute

Advisory‘Committee

Officers

 




H U M A N E S O C I E T Y O F W A S H T E N A W G O U N T Y
April 1, 1951 to March 31, 1958

To the Voting Members of the Humane Society or Washtenaw County:

. This report covers the first year of the Society in the
Egaggifulqnewﬁgnimel shelter,nthe generous gift of the Hatthaei
. ﬁixalior.. l e impoitance or this eroellent ouilding in increas~
ins bﬂe Society’s ability to care humanely for animals and to act
as a beneficial influence in encouraging kindness to animals
throughout Washtenaw County cannot be overestimated. Demands for
the services of the organization constantly increase. Nor is its
influence purely local. Representatives of other humane oraani»
zations from many parts of the country-have visited the shelter or
requested information about it. It is serving an important function
in acting as a model for buildings used for similar purposes.

‘ -

Dedication Ceremonies

. On June 12, 1951 at 10:30 Ash. the openwair dedication cere~
monies were held at the new shelter. A fine series of speeches were
delivered to an attentive and sizeable audience of one hundred
seventymfive, The County Board of SUPervisors, meeting on that day:
adjourned to the shelter to attend the ceremonies where they joined
many members of the Society and other interested public officials.

Hr. Benjamin Wheeler was a genial and capable Master of
Ceremonies. The first speaker was the President of the Humane
Society, Edward H. Kraus, mno presented an excellent outline of the
history of the Society documenting its growth_from 1896, then it
was incorporated, to the present day when the longustanding wish
for a model animal shelter has been fulfilled. Hrs. Arthur Aiton-
followed with a lively account of the inception of the idea of he
new shelter, She introduced Mr. Frederick Matthaei, President of the
Ijgtthaei"Foﬂndation, Whose kindness and modesty matchcdrhiﬂiSplendid
generosity. ~President Kraus expressed the deep appreciation of the
Society in receiving the deed to the property from Mr. hatthaei’s
hand. Mr. L. Rossetti, who designed the shelter, told of the
solutions to some of the difficult problems. The next speaker was
the President of the University of Michigan, Alexander G. Ruthven,
who spoke feelingly of the importance of the work of the Humane.
Society in overcoming brutality and emphasized his belief as an
educator in the great value of humane thinking. Mayor Daniel T.
Quirk of Ypsilanti expressed his appreciation of tie fine new shelter,
and of the work of the Society, and hr. Samuel horgan, hairman of
the County Board of Supervisors,spoke very highly of the organization.
Mr. James G. Hendley, Chairman of the County Road Commission,
expressed his inter st and desire to cooperate with the Society as
did Dr. Otto Engelhe, Director of the Washtenaw County Health
Department. Mr. Robert Bellar, President of the American Humane
Association, representing humane societies throughout the nation,
spoke oi the many humane problems Which need to he so vcc._ The
Invocation was pronounced by the Reverend Philip Schenk with a
moving prayer for animals and for the growth of humanencss.

,Folloning the ceremonies, many of those attending went to the
Friendship Hall of the Dirboro hethodist Church where an excellent
luncheon was served. Mr. George Handy, a fine speaker, introduced
Pr secutor Douglas Reading who told of the Society's good work in
the prevention of cruelty, Emory Mulholland, Supervisor of Superior
Township, who expressed a wish to cooperate with the Society, Hr.
George D. Zurrell, Director of the County Planning Commission who
approved the choice of the site of the shelter, and.H’ss Dorothy
Buckley, Principal of Angeli School, who endorsed the program of
humane education of the Society and chose from her touching and
humorous stories of children and animals to enphasize the importance
of humane attitudes. The President of the Michigan Federation of
Humane Societies, Clifton Johnson, presented a_message of encour»
agement for the growth of the humane cause in hichigan.

touring the shelter, examining educational materials, and learning
about the work of the Society. A troep of Girl Scouts more cheerrul
hostesses during the afternoon, and in the morning a Boy Scout troop
helped to direct arrivals. June 12, 1951 W33 one Of the most Stlmu“
lating and encouraging in the history Of the Society.

Open house use held in the afternoon with many more persons

 




- g -

Following is an outline of the work accomplished by the
Society during the year:

Officers and members 9: the BQQZQ.Q£ Directors

 

 

At the annual meeting of the Society, May 22, 1951, three
new members were elected to the Board of Directors: hiss hyfanwy
Lloyd, ﬁr. Frederick disks, and the Rev. Lauren Campbell. Mr. Edward
H. Kraus and.Ur. Arthur E. Wood were reelected, and the appointment
of hrs. George Handy during the year was confirmed by the members.
hr. John S. Dobson resigned from the Board in September. The present
Board of Directors rith expiration dates of their terms is noted below:

Terms expire 1952
Fanni Kaufmann, Daniel C. Quirk, Christine Stevens, Lauren Campbell

Terms expire 1953
Lu Handy, hildred hatthaei, Atwood HcAndreW, Jr., Benjamin hheeler

Terms expire 1954
Edward H. Kraus Myraznv Lloyd Frederick disks Arthur E. Whod
9 J .1 1 9

The nesent officers are as follows: Edward H. Kraus, President
Atwood R. hcAndren,Jr.,Vice~Pres.
Christine Stevens, Secretary
Benjamin Wheeler, Treasurer

iembersngg

Following are current_menbership totals. An increase in
membership is needed: , '

Associate members ($1.00 annually). . . _ , 150

Voting members ($3.00 annually). . ._. , . 215

Contributing members ($35.00 annually). 18

Life members ($100.00). . . . . . . . 53

Shelter Aetiyities

ﬁr. Herbert Gay: Shelter hanager, has done a fine job in the
past year of dealing humanely with more individual cases than have
ever before been handled by the Soc iety. ﬁr. Charles wright, Humane
Officer, assisting Er. Gay, deserves much credit for the important
part he has played in carrying out this work. Kr._William Onsley has
been an able part~time assistant on neekmends. Since the erection
of the new shelter it has been possible for hrs. W. V. harshall, the
Society's highly competent secretary, to join the officers at the
Society's headaiarters where she has added telephone and recention
work to her many other duties. All members of the staff are out“
s andins for their fondness for animals and understanding of their
needs as well as for devotion to their work to which they have given
many extra hours.

Statistics on cases handled are as follows:

Dogs received. . . .
Cats received. . . . . .
Dogs placed in new homes.
Cats placed in new homes.
Dogs restored to owners. .
Cats restored to owners. . . . . . .
Calls made to bring animals to 1 shelter.
Boarding days for dogs. . .
Boarding days for cats. . . . . . . . . . . .
Complaints of cruelty or neglect investigated. . .
These included: 21 horses, 113 cattle, 7 hogs, 55 dogs,

3 cats, 30 chickens, 2 rabbits, 1 crow
Miscellaneous animals cared for or rescued and released included
the following: 1 hank, ' rabbits, 3 robins, b raccoons, 8 squirrels,
1 noodchuck, 1 ground hog, l onl, 5 pigeons, l_bat, l parakeet,
2 horses, 1 skunk, 1 blue jay, 3 mtskrats, 2 possums, l c n,
2 cross, 1 hog, l quail, 1 canary, 6 hampsters.

C.
«a
C)

’RJCH4KM ~1
CNNOthﬁUKNm

O

o o o o I o 9

I...‘
02109.
\- 9

\OO*3

 




~37...

Increasine efforts are being made to improve current
practices in tlie trcni sportation of livestock to m27 rhet, a1 area in
which11uch ne bulcb sufferiig is cons tazitly occurrine involving the
bruis1n,, tlEHJllng, wounding and slow death oi animals improperly
loaded and pan led. The humane Officers, rorh 113 with the State
Police in some C see, have helped to allevi ate numerous C21ses.
Another invert ant p1oject carried out by the Officers was ass10L7nce
to e 1e 57b0114, county which has no hurane society in correcting
shoe} llDlV 1nhu37nc pra cLices in connection with the control of
stray) dogs. The sitnation is now greatly improved.

1“77717:" effor t is rzade by the Society to place a 112m rinum
number oi yonn“, healthy 7n7mals 'n soodl iomc Us, end its recOrd in
this 1cU rd 1anns nigh. ROMTGV rer, it needs th e COOOCI"thﬂ oi all
1.1171 Score 01 the con :11u7it in {re 14—1119: the birth 01‘ 111711111210 puppies
and kittens. It is they evin oi the Society to prri de a painless
not d.01 destruction ror th so animals which are incurale ill,
injured, or aged and to ple ce in good homes all or those who can
continue to live happily as l”?CROly pets. however this cannot be
done so long as the birth re te 01 kittens andvappic exceeds the
number of available hence. The cooperation of lens rs and their
fr ie1 ld;3 in this matter is em “aestl' solicited.

W'e Education

he new shelter ht: been a focal point of interest for groups
of 1clool children cc 1‘2 nied by their teachers. About fifty grOUps
of mclool classes, 303 and Girl Scouts and Campfire Girls have visited
the si=itcr since 113 opened its doors. The children learn about the
proper Md ullﬂﬁ 13a caise of aai “1 during the anoy7ole tours and,
recentlgg ouch child nae received L copy of one or the publice tions
of the ice et" designed 101 :r7de« chool use, "Kittens end Gets"
"You and Y02rr Dom”. These, with educational nateria.s 01 oduced hJ
other humans orgtn11ations have bee, distributed to the sci 1001s of
lknmltenat Ccan1tx'rn7re tenetwnnsiise then tc: t: strnct th111171apils
in the principles 01 kindness and H 1e p1 roper care 01 pets. A total
of apyronilatclv 5000 booklets, 2M1 zines, pos ers and other educa~
tiOIel noter1al have been distributed to schools and to pore ens

.. .. .4. “,1 . .1. , _.,
Vls“'1ﬂ the s heltei.

4

at 10: 70 each o7turd y mornin: over
counted regularly s che 19'“
generosity of W?AG over the tears
the program has made it pos s
' " reimenrse it ior t

3...)
.4;
~10

U

1-724

PJ

CD

”The Po throg‘

as a 'bOl c ser*
“ocie use ly aporc02
' l

~17
.
P
‘11

f‘w

- d

r
ic

1!
.2
.z.-4-J
r
t.

.. 1'" 6"
l Lug

1
C3 1

P’J
5.

1-1“
1:)

O
JOHiG)

of

C* U)

U

’1 f‘
1' c2 (3’ .13
CD

+-:
ad ”ha th7 UO)Ul
tetixii to oetajrlzzl
enrich the coming s1: 1 1 and hahel Jones :i
tc tell their interesti animals, to give '1

‘»t care end on 7n11 l protecti e ’ 1: an: ; dBSO“luB

2nzd tinis atrnnlahl~~“<31 “(CﬂleOP :1 a: ‘1'* : adiere,1nrny

been recleined or adopted owing to "~ v~ announcements

‘1‘

:-
v C

. 3‘0)
024
H
C}

e

I

i». .
'11
*-

J
)

;..-
i...
01‘?

Publicity

 

Both local and national publicit concerning the new shelter
and the 71.10111 or” the Eiocie have exceede the t oi all or7v1ous 7Te27 re.
The ire irhor hens lies carried front plo pictures and sto:ries as
well as conti nn’ra their excellent feature "The Dog of the Honih"
Reports end sic safes 11 the Vesilant Press hav 1e broueht frequent fav~
orable a tent107 to the 01071’ s,tion, and in ‘ddition to the regular
pro “r“: over WPAG, both this t tion and WERV ha - been cooperative
in cerr I7 spot announcements on special occasions.

National pUhlicity inclUded a picture st01 y about H 7e nee

shelter entitled "Orpha.1nage for Pet s" in the Sunday upnlencnt "Parade"
cari Jet by newspapers thro nehout the 3 2ation. A well illustrated
article was printed by the Feorua1v 1952 "Nations 1 EU use ReV1ew"
describing the shelter end the work 01 the Society, and the shelter
was f etured i1 a story p11 Vlluﬂbd in th equarterly "Gaines Dog

.A-J-

Rees rch Frogress" (Fall lecic, 1951).

 




      

Heetin 3

At the ann11211 contenu-cn of the American Humane Association
held in Cleveland, October lwh1 1951, the Society presented A booth
showing pAOtO(r3uAs Tﬂd pl ns of the new ehelter which were much
Admired 0317 the del P§I!Cmo Educational materials, post Aid end A
recordiAA 1 one 01‘ Hie radio pro: ems comp1.catedt11e dis play. Three

.)

representntz11es of the Societ331ttended the convention.

 

     

 

 
   

 

 

 
    

  
 
 

The enn13l me etiig oi the Iii hicnn Federation of Humane
Societies 1‘1ne held at AAA Areor on October 20th. Following A meeting
at the hichigen.Union at Jhich the Fe dere tion s President, Clifton
John So on, presided, the delerete lunched Aleie and he51rd e11 inspiring
Address by President Kre us on the events lelalﬂ” up to 1:5e erection
of the new shelter Mnd A encourdbing talk by Prosecutor Douglas
F-edr1’ €1,dﬂSlului H 1e import: WAC of the enforcement of the enti~
crueLt: laws. The delegates then adjourned for A tour of the ehelter
with Vh 10h they were All greatly impressed.

Old Shelter Property
M

 
  
 

, 'Throueh the efforts of Hr. J. O. NeL son, redltor, the property
at Ale Trroef etreet (Scio Township)31s sold last June, 1951, on a
land contrnc t to hr. CA or r rechtdith. Donn p33nents tot.llinb 31,000

ncrczi ie. This AAA was added to the New Shelter Bund. Re Aldr
monti 113 nayn1nt3 or $75.00 Are being :1nde to the Socrety' s ”“VJHWS

Acc011nt :‘1t '1w State 1Vlng Bank. The 1xrxe s end insurence ere pnid
by the pu1.chdser.

 

April 1, 1951 to hnrch 51, 1952, AS given in the dunu ml nud'
by Icermnn, Johnson And Hoffnnn:

Following is A statement or receipts and e1pcnd1.uree,
1

Receipts:

Aninc 1 dis posel And services:
Generel .cceipts. . . . . . . . . $7,275.50
W a Bhtennw Gou:11 tJ . . . . . . . . 1,999.92 $9.3
Dues and Aer ee1ehip . . . . . . . . . . . 1, 116. 00
Gifts. . . . . 2 000.9 3

a o c o o o o o o o o u o o
Illtcrebt 011 171V 8.51712” MBTLES o q 0 o I p o o o a ’150. GO
“15300111116301.1513 o c Q o o o o o I o o o o o 73949
8:.th 0.1. (All @1111de a 9 p o a o o o o o o o c 39 9125
Tel. 6131101163 . o 1, u a a o o o 9 O 9 o o o o - o 1691'“;
Refund from Detroit Edison. . . . . . . . . 107.43
Refund on chairs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5.51
Ril't‘llfl “‘ $.38 19) 3:1le a o o o a o a o o 9 o p ELF/3 o 75

Tic-Ll]. meml Gd. 1201"} 1? ‘ 747 Sli‘ 1t 61 Wild. 0 o a o E: 211 0 1+8

Total rec ’ints. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $16, 509. 09
Dishursenente (listed 13 elow) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,e05 95;

Excess of reeeipts over disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . $ 783.1”
Balance Ann Ar nor Bank, April 1, 1951. 12.1‘

G
O
O
O
C
O
O
I
O
C
0

 

 

Balance Aﬂ1:1ATbOI Bank, gergh 31, 195g . . . . . . . . . . o $ 795.3}

 

Dis ou1scnc mt .
4')
Adi-7'91: 1115111337.. 0 o a o o o o o o o o o o o o o 0 £19 lg 9 4’2

15.33.113.111 H (‘1 £5111: e o o o o o q o I o o o o o o o n a l 3 9 214‘, (Z;

Atlas}. tillg. p o o o o o o o o o o o o o o n o o 9 2+0 9 OO
Billflk (11" " 8.3%;38. o o '0 o I o o o o o o o a o o o 129514-
Bulldoz rental for grading . . . . . . . . . . 270,00
Br 01 1:2,e 1810,1118. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839.110
Buildingl linin tenance and repairs . . . . . . . . 276.7%
011161163 "Li. S g g g . g g o q 9 o o o o o s o a g o o 25: 9 DO
GOC3:1 o o o o o u a o a o o q o g o n o o o I o 9 3b 91+”;
00117117. Glltlonb ELEDBHQDG o o o o o q o o o o o c Q o o 20 976
Dues 31nd SH00011)t10no . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35.00
DSOE) Fr QCZG o o o o o o o o o o o o 0 Q o a o o 2g0900
FUXB]. Oil. 0 o o o o o o o 9 o o o o o o o, o o a 1’06 99

Iﬂ-Su-ran‘oe o o p t o o o o o a o o o o o o 9 9 o 547 017
11.100011011630118. o o o 9 o 9 o o o o o o 9 o o o o 2900
Oifice Supplies and Pestege. . . . . . . . . . . lg7.73
Printing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ”2.79

(cont. next peSe 0)

   

  

    
  




Dis burscrzents; (cont.)
Relrigorntor . . .
Range . . . . . . .
Rotary ”oner. . .
Soretjf deposit box.
S lo 133 and wages
Sohedul3 Bond. . . .
Steel Cabinet. . . .
St 0 111...]. ”a :3. ll C1014]. S u o o 0
81133131 1 3 S o o o o o 0
Telephone. . . . .
idolC top end doc rs.
13111102131118 0 a I o o o
Utilﬂﬂ3s . .. . .
"wlCl operation .

=9“;
.
Tl U1

’HCJLWJDJG*Q

09.
u .
3: 34343:
|--‘ 5‘0 9'1
OWK»! ‘Jl \N 03.
-c 'o co -
a J (J\ 0?; ..

O

‘0 C
-....

O
l"
+-

-U1m
\JUNU~4

i‘u

~in G‘\‘\l
mo 14‘ >1
'.

F.‘

\O
O O
lKO‘v‘l-NN

C
O‘OKO m C).

v.4 ‘1
o .

O‘\\N l-'
\D
“\\C: C“
O
{\r
O

4.
G
U
(I?

i

E

Total disbursements. ~,UOL.96

 

 

Xny number d33 imri 13 to review h audit may do so ripon
requestt . the tre denier

Financial Sugnort

There 13 on1v one or‘e in which the Society mist regretfully
state the t the p10 1Cnc exemplified in all other seetions of tTmi. repori
is seriously low an‘ that is, in financial support. P oyments i r011
‘WuohCPU”W Corinty amount to only $2000 per 3feor. ConsidC'-tio is
beiur LLMLH at present to payments iron Tie cities oi Ann Aroor and
Ypsl uzdiiti for the work done tiieie 037CJC Society. It is to so i“_0ijd
tha.t the dillUlUﬂthl of the City Councils will have n fevo 1mgle
outcome. however, any such funcs Jould apply only to norh‘eirectly
construed with the collection, ious ine, and dispoSition of does. This
nocnc that all Jerk in the prev cntion of cruelty, all work involving
co and other unihwl recr ived av the Society, end all Jerk in humane
edu; “tron LﬂlSt 13 flquCCd oy 0&3 ate charity. increased contributions

and nCan°~h1ps must oe forthcouinw if the work of the Society is to be
unint‘and. It is sugngth that id noCr pos sthis xniuol reocr t on
to 3 friend .310 may he inteicsCec nnml rhenCJn:Do sible, invite otT Cers
to become heaters or clntiibutors.

1n.““C S:les end 05.133 ndnrs

Your attention is celled to other ways in which the financial
support or the Socie Ct; m”; he increased. Two rummage 3.1es are held
Chen your, one in the spring and one in the fell. The date for the
1311 sole hos been set for hovenher 29 at the Arnor* onC both your
rummage end help are earnestly solicited for this cv ent. Another
project carried.on by the Society is the sole 0:: i‘he little on mel
colan<drc published by the American} undue ASSOC7“CIOQ, .tind available
in hoCcnoCr so that they may he used for Chrian 3 cards or ”ll ts at
the price of only twentyafive cents each.

Bequests

During the veers the Society has received various oeque sts
This eco nation 01'. the work of the Society is greatly sporeC ictcd
The “Cf: 1-, hope that similar provisions may be made in the Jills of
other T~1~ of oninnls. It is recommended that th following form he
used‘ Site and beCm 23th the sum of ..........dollnrs to the Humane
Society or htrndw County, 3 corpora tion oreer7Cd and existing under
the 1“”“ of re Stote oi 1 rehigen, to spplv to the uses of said cor~
porntion. "

Annudl‘heeting

The annuo l nee sting or the Society Jill he held at 7:15 P.H. on
Tqudo" hey 20, "1952 in the Council Room of the Cit} Hell, Ann Arbor.
This nCetinm provi dew an cpuorCunLCy for the LAQJCQulOﬂ oi JCUS and
sugOCstione on the p31t oi (111 members of the or Enlndthﬂ. It
urged that there he 3 urge attendance.

Respectfully sul nittcd on behalf
of the Board 01' Diiectors
Edward E. Krone, President
Christine Stevens, Secretai

 




3222221222222 22:22:33.2“ 3:23? 2:23 ' 22.233322233223322 33222 .3332? - “T31 32-: 2 «"3 33313 33332 3'3 25323 3231

332.2 223222 32:22.22 2‘22. 2.222222 22.23 :2 22 2 2222 22222 32232:: :23“ 23323222222222: 232-2223223313:

M n '2: . 3'3 .

3233.2: 3222 222-23. 222:”: 2323212322 2223; 2.22:2..22222..:2 3: 5.23 22232232 33:2: 33 33’ 3’3 3233'”

d

. _,' r: 3.. ‘ - 2 .22 .‘W . ._22‘-...2 225‘ a?!“ ‘ fr} 242' .', : ‘ ‘ ‘ -' T212
:2 2:22.222 2232322.: 2:23” :22 :-.-32232 23272 3.2223222332332223. 2223:2252 3.22 3:3 33222223322: . - 22:2
3.333322212223323 22.2222: 2.222.222.2233232323 2:3 332. 22233333. 2:22 2: 2.22.22: 3:2 232222322: 21:3 3.... :2:
32:22:22 22132 22222»: 3222333332322 322: 22322: 33 33.222 :2: 3223.33.33 . 2 : 22223 22.222 2.2223:

if i :

2 - . u." ' . 22 -» ,1 1.135177. : 2 ‘. . ‘ =, A w. .39.? ,. .91 ‘13 n'y: M'. $22 : ‘ >1 no “g .5? 3,2ka {vakéﬁ' 4. v ‘3'», '2‘ ’ '1‘? L2:
3.32 22:22: 22223 2223222223222 2232,22 3.3: 3, :2: 222322, 32:23:22: 33y 33:22 :2 32 2.2: 3.22222: 3222 2.2222 3:22 .3223": .232 2:32: 2222:2233 3.22 3.22:2

_

321.232.2323 3:: 3;. 222223, -2222 2222222, 23: 32.233 322 2. 32.332 32:22: 22.2 2232.3 322:: ' 2:22 22 3.23:.» 2232 2.22:: 323222232.
2:32:23. :2: 22222: 3:233:22: 3,32 32:22:22: 222223 :23::222:233.2:..323222: 3.2: 2:222: 222 23 31% 3222232 2232
332332332 22223.2. 22 :23 2.3222 323222222222 2223;? 2.33.33; 223.2222: 322 :2 3.22 3.32:: 33332332 3:3 :32232232333: #3“ 22223.:2m:232,.i33ty

3:232 322222.32 32:23:; ». 3:3 3:222:22 332:2 2.32:2“m2223322 2223321322 2. 33222232232. 3222;222:222: 2 :2»
- ~ 222233222233. :2 222323
33226222331322: 32293321233322: /2 : :33: 2:, £33322: " 3.32:2;

3.22 3232332223.: 2:321:32 2:222:32: 2.2332 22:23:: 32.3.3.3 3:22:22 2:23 2‘3 3.32.2223: 22:3” 23332323201333: 3:23:32: 22:22:33 23:22 .2232 22223. 2232::

32222312322333.2322 2:22:21 3:: 223*: :31 3222223233 2.22:: 2222:2222 2.2:... 322. 3322.22 33.2.2 23 2223‘ 322322222222: 222232322223 :2 22:2 2: 2232232222 222232323

322 2222.. 322222323. 3.2 33-2 22 2222222132 22 "3:: 32:22: 2:22:22

i ,: .5 3,: 3,, .3
3' 'f‘ > it (kgll '3'- 1',

3‘22 2223232232223: 2:: «2:232:23: :33:
it 33 3333 33333332 3333:3323 fay
ﬁciytj 3‘W:2ﬂyy3 £333 332.33333

”'3 I" 1? ' 1.. £1 ' L1 22%!!- "" 1- .
3223333333.:222 :22: 22

% :é"; 2w». 3. ..-I-. . . m‘j' 25., ". W 3‘) .‘ 3f! “'2 '
2 222.222.2233 :2 2.2.: 22222233 2:... 223:." 22:33:12.2 2.

J; 222,9 I .‘ 23-3». :u f: 2 .. -"" .3." 2‘— .“ “a?” :
,. . 2.... 322:: 22 i . 2 3 ‘3 .23 3 :2 -. 2. , .
1-2 32:2- 3 £22 :3. 32%;. 2.23 7. .932 72: 33 5‘33 21:. 2'J 3323‘ i 33523:? ,3 2' I??? 3 3.23.3333 33. 5.2 ~42 if" 3:? ”1},“232‘ {32333335

miryzﬁ. :22: :2 2222222232223... .33.. 3322;: 22.22 3.2.2 2222233123 «3222 2223232223., 233: :2 23 2’2 22.232322322223223
222223 22222232232233: 33322222232232: ‘3" :22: 2:332:22. :33

(121“?!

3.2323223 33:2 amt/3:232:22:

.‘r
-;:4 -, .

A . ’2 21;
«I - x :

3'“

333333.:
2:322 2: 3. 33ygé3m223y
£33333 ﬁﬁﬂiﬁ’ 3"“ 1'33? ff?"
22” 22:23 3.222323222222223 2:211 22. 2.2: 33?: 2:22.322: ,2 :22 .3323}.

m:
M‘ 33'9"”: '
, ‘3‘

2.3 333233

:32 3:221:22, 23123322223 22323222222. 3 33222222223 3321;232:2322: 22, 22 :2. 3 2222.22: 22:22.3: .23222221321‘ 1

\

 




. “:3”
9-33333 33333333 333 3 73 313333 333333 3» 333*3, 333313333
3333“ 33333333, Jr», 3333 333333333
:3 i3 3M33 3333343, 333333333
.33333333 3333133, 333333333
" 53327331333: 33333333 333’, 3333““ 33?; “3'33 “333 1:3, in 3333' 3333333“;
333333333333 33* 33
33333333333 33 3333 33'“ 31333 333, 33333 3333.33333333333y 3 3333333 3333333
:33 333 333 33w 333 3*333333,'3333 33333 33 33 333333523 3 ,319§3 3333 9333333333 333
3313 333 333 3 13333 333 3 3333331333333333‘3333 333 33113333g 33333 333‘333333332
”3‘3 33333333133 33333W 333,333333}“
3333 3333333433 333333 ~3333w 33333:; 33 33 313 333133 33 333 33331§3331333, 3f
“9333»33333 33 333 3333333 3333333333 33 33313 33‘33333333 3333333333133333333.33
333 3333233 333 333333333 3333 333333333333, mﬁ~v=j 333‘33333r33 33333333 3f 333 33333331
333333333 333 $333 33333 33? 33 H33‘53g3 3333-3 33¢ 333333 33 333 333 3 3:333 *3 133 3, 3333-
.1333 333 33 3333 33 33 313 3333334 3343;33333 3,'§3 3333333’ 3333333§.3r. 333333333

33333333 3333333 333 3333 33 333 33333333 A“; 333 3 333333, $333 333133 33333333‘33

‘!

3 3333 33‘331333 333w 333 3*3333331 3333333 33 3 5 3333333333 33 333 333 333‘ 3333333333

33 3333333333333 33 33331f3 33 3333333. 33 33333333 333 333333331 33333 33 333 @3333?

33 333‘33333 333333333 33 333 33333333 333 313333‘333 3333 33333133 33 33333‘3333333.

333 3‘333333 333333 333 33 3333 333 33333333133, 3 333333 3333333 33 33333333 333 3333y.

3333333 3 3? 333333 1333333333 33333333 “333 33313~33333 33 31 33*3311333333333
333333333 333 33333333333 333333333 3333333 3333 33,333 333333. 333333333333 3333
333333.33 333 333333333 33333 333 3331 33333333 333333 333 3331333 33 3333 333 333333333333
‘3? 333 3333313 f33 333333333 E3 333 33333333 33 3 333 3333 33333 3 33: 33.33333} 33‘33.
$33333 33 35333333333 33 333 3333333’333 33333133 331333 3333 333333 33 33 33 33

' 333333‘3.333333 333 33 3333333333 33~33333l 3313333 33 3333.

33333333333 3333333 (33.§§
333333 3333333 {33.ﬂﬁ 33q3

$33333333333 333333 {33%
£3ﬂm3mmw3i Wﬁdﬁ)

 




4.34....

4444414444 44414444444444.4444:
Th4: 444444444444? 4347‘ 4:...4144 44444444344: 444; 4:44:44 4‘4441‘3..4;444:° 3 24444444 4444 444434

4444444444 14;? 7.4.4.4: 4444> 14424444444444.4444}... :4 44:4 4.44.44 44 , 4444444 4444444444434 .4444 4:44 444444:

$334.;

"M .14

4444444444441 4444 444444444444 .4444 4.4443144444444444 4445‘ 3 44444444.. 444:: 4.4444 4:44.13. 4.4444444 4 4444» 444 ‘- 44

44444444444444 441.444.444.444 44:44 1444 44:44 4444 :r- r:- ' 444444 4 444444 4;.

4:44 33.33.13 43.33.34.414, 4.4.4. 4.41 4.44.443. 44 4 34:3 .4444: 4.4 44:44 4444 44444.74. 4
44444444; 4.44:4 44 444'. 444.4 44444444444444 44:4? 4.444 "4444444 134 444. 344454 4‘4“ 44“?“‘3' "444 34334444
§§§itiamaﬁ parﬁwﬁiﬁa ﬁﬁﬁigﬁaﬁﬂﬁ,444 ﬂﬁW? 4m4p4 4Q 4'.4gf4$4ﬁﬁy‘4ﬁ ﬂfﬁﬁr 44$ 43 044'4ﬁh
4&4 ﬁﬂ4ggwwﬁi. ﬁrk¢ 4&4 4&4 ﬁﬁaff'ﬁﬁ4ﬂhﬁ 4%4344? 4444c444444 5, MT; 4“?

4442444424 4444444444: 4 4.44 4 4. 4‘ .4 ' 444.444.4444, 414444.44 44444444 444‘... 444‘; 43434444 , ‘4‘4447-‘4

4&4 ﬁr. 3 , 3&4144? 44% 4 444 {439443 4.4}.

44443 a? 44:4 h..mm 44441‘44 4444 4: M44 m4; 4%«4~44. ~,;~4..4 m '%4 4m 44 444444

3
44444144444444 4:4 3 .4444 4.4444 4444 44 44‘ 4:4 4 444. .1 4:4 44 - 444444444 .44 44 4.
$141544? 4444‘ ~ 7:: 3”: 34:43“ 4444 4.4 4 344““4

4E4 @434 G? $h4luér 4444 44a4 mﬁgﬁﬁky‘ﬁﬁr $44? a g4ar.

.444 .. r44 ..444 44 4:44: 4.444444 4'44

44-. 444.444}. 43144 44444444444442.1444: 4.4.4“ 444 444.44.444.44 444144.444...

§

1‘ .
{4.24: . ,1“ 35.x. 5%.1 (Wig
3:34: 444.31 .4.

(4:4 44.4444 4:4- 4.4444444444 4 4444 ".4 .44 44.444 4.443. 44424.44 44:44:, 44:44.41, 4.41“ 3 4:44:44. 3- 4: 4.4434444 444.444}

{4.4444 44444444444: :4. 44444 "4:44. 44144444414344 444444442444 441.4444 4:44: 444.4444 4.44:4)

Qﬁ'ﬁ‘ﬁ 34%; 3“”391344344‘44" 4&34413411‘3 ”194315 4:?(33'4‘4 '44} 4" .. -R'QVE 43$ W344» W‘ "‘4' 3"" 49

4:44:44. 4.414444444444114 41: 4444444444444 .44. 4414144444444 44 .44.: 444444444. 4444444444 4.44 44.444444444444444 44:43. 4.4444441

‘ ‘4 ““1" 4 ‘ "$1 .1: ‘44": 52' 4 '4'! 414'» WI" . ’43.- ..": 3*». 4 4'“ .4 * ~4- u-z- 4» >4 .4 . ‘ 4444-442 44- 4- I ".4 4:43- '4'» ‘
.444 4:4. 4; 444;: 4.41.4144 1444444.4 44.4444 4.34 4.4., 444. 444 .444 - 4. .4444... 444.4. 4.4444444444144444 44444444444... 44444444 4...... 44444444.

In .4444 444:4 44:4 4444 44444414444 44.44 4 4:. 444444.. 4:4 4. 4444.41.44 4:. 44.4444 444.4444: 4.4 444.444.434.44 44 4444

44444; 44444444442444.1444 44441441444244 444‘ 4.444 444.444.4444 44444444444444, 4.4.4444. . , 444441. 444444444 4444444 3414.44 4.4.4 .444; 4.4 4.4444 .

3"". 4 arm Lv 4-4 345441 3 4 - 4.4. _ .4 . . . . - ”i" V- . ' - " '
4.444.444.4444; »- 4. 41444.44” 4.44444 ‘4444 -. x :4 444444 1444:4443. 43.444444 3344444344 4444444444 44444444444444 4.42444" ‘44;

V
44444

4.444 444444;; 444144444 44 4444444444443. 444414441444 44444 14.44444. 1 . 44444444454 4444444444; 444.4 14444.74: : 4.44
43244444 444.04.44.44 4.4.414 44444444444444.4444. 14444444.. 4.444.444 4:44 44.4444444444. 4‘44 .44. 3444443 45434.4; 4444444444 .44 444.4441 44444-334444 4:414“
4444144444444 4444444443. 444. 4:4 444144444 44.44444 44444444.: 444:: 44444444434 .444 444444444 44 4444 4444.442

\.

 




. .34....
“T3333 It Ef3‘33fﬁ .9 31133133; 333-3. 331-3 bad. £33.33 33.333 33.3 33333331: 3 131363 13H 3113-3 3333333 Mid - *
3 talk 31333 3yL333~ﬁ3y. 331133333 33:3, th3 (1333tify‘3hieh 333) 33% Slab canﬁtrmcﬁ3d
3 333.3]. 31.33.3133, 33333 3&3}: 133333 33333;: 1:33 3. by 3:33 $333323 533333333... 3313 253313.333?" 33.33
333333333 3-3:} 33313333 . ,. ‘ 3333.3 333.333 333 33 3 353333 3‘33 3333333333133 3333333333 333'
333333. T233 33 3133333 .3 . 33% 3.3.33 331:3 13 3'33 3331133 3 3:33 33' 3 3 $233333 3 in 333333333
‘ "m E .333 ‘33 33-333 £33333 1%.. , 3 i 3333 {E33333 3.3323 {33.33 F3133 .. _ 1.3333333333331133byLifm-«e
3.33333 3333 33333133 3:33 3 3333313313133 3333 13333333333 32?“? 3 333311 3433.3313233; 33‘ 3.23. 3333333
3333. 313312.. 3.33332. 333 1333:2313: 333% 3323. 33333-3 31333 3:33 3333 3331131333.. fin ‘3. =*iit:§.33 '3.
332323333331 33333 3f 33:23 3:31.33 3333333213113 333 3333 33:1 33.3 3333, 33 £31333, .333 3%;
33331333 35?» 333193333 3M 3333333 i3 333, 333 3333;" 333.3313 3333 3333 333333. 333333 ‘

mifmmﬂ 3333333 33’" 33.33123 3333133- 33 3333133 3:32.33. .g333333 3f 3.; 33333333 0:? 333.331

3r3133£i33 .33: i3 313 2333333

 

333 333

$333 3333 3331333i33y‘333 33333 333333333 5313 3trip3 31393 3333313 f3? 1333 ta
3333313 3333333333 333 33333y3 3_33333331331§‘fim3 33313 ”333“33 £333.3f333.3 633"-
33333333 3333 3 3311_333333t3ry‘ﬁy 333 $333333iti33 333333t333.f33.333331 33lf333 3t
$333t 3313333. $33 333333 333 333i13313 3iﬁh333 333333;$ik3 311 333 33333 333333313
33331133‘f33 313333333*333 33‘333 $331333. $3333_i331333 33331333‘33 333 3333 33 3333,
3333eripti333~t3333 p3ri3333313, ”63$ Bumb~ﬁﬂim313“, 3T33 33313331 $33333 $33333“, 3nﬁ
3333331 Lif3” 333 B3 3333 33.3313313 ﬁ33t333. T3333 maiﬁyialﬁ 333 3V3i13b13 $9 3v33y
333331 33333333333'63333y*333 333 3333 33333313333333‘333333033._ 331333 33333 3f the
3331333 £333 333p3133 3331333Vf33 33333333 333333 333333333, 333.3ppr3xim3t3xy {3133
~x3333r 313333 3f’33333 33 35 33313333) 3333 3331333 333 3331333 333 3333 1333333333 in 333
yr 331313133 35:.“ 33 3131 33333333133 33?}; by 3, 333.3”? ”32333:“ ..

T33333F333333ﬁ 3ff3333 33333y by 333,3331333 3333 3333333 3336 33333 $330333

193$, 13 333 1333 3333323333 3.3333 3123 321333.333 3.3" {.33 {3333333333 3:? 323333}; 33;“ 333 ﬁzzivwaﬁy

3f 31331333. 5333333333" "33113.3 3333333333 333 3333.333231’2 which 31.3 3.33333 33:13 sﬁireeti3n

33?" 233. 3213313.. (3303121 333 330-733;: 23.3, 333*. , ‘ 3213 1333.333 _ , . T333333 333 331? RiW“!

33333333333 335‘ Mm B3333 3m. and 3.11".“ “12:33 3 ”333133 , ““333 3.3 33 3033 {13 M33 $335333 far the

.. 3.33 3f @1533 331331313 3333.3 33? 1333313133; 3133331331 13333333333 0!“ 3213333313 and 33:3 r 31" 3371533313 '

 




V3233? 3:: Vi: '3V333V?V'43433t 3'3 :3??? 3.3.. "'33: 33'?3t:§.‘t333§3 V413 V333: ' 1443?..33'3'13'3 p33b1§3333
3V3? .33 33M 3.333%.V3333V t3: 333333 33.? V: 333333.4Vy “V V VVEVV ”VVV’V VV V‘VVVVV VV
VBV 3"? 373‘ 33":3'33: .. V3333”: 3 VVVVV'V 3:. 'V'Vrmﬁvt 333 34% 3V .343V3'V4t. 33V, 4333“». VVVVVVVVV: V'V "V4313? V V ““354 *V

Vi'm 3.333333334 VV? V VVVVV'm VFVVV'V'VVVV: 33:33: V333? * V" W V443VVVV V VVVV‘VVVV V‘VVVV

3 VVVVVVV V‘V
VVVVVVVV V33 JV .3? '33.? 44343.44 3334333334 332%?" ”V’VVV. 43 x- '34: :43? I 3.3:: 3?.43 44:43.13...V 353.334 :33444
VII? 3% 3333 3:33 53’: ' 343333333...“ V3444 ViV‘VVVV. .3 t34' .4; 3.?iiZVVVVVV’VV-VVV’” V“ V V'4 V V’V

333V 333333. 3333?: 33343434313 333 ."V ”4&333334333. 32qu £33333: 3?? ”33'..3 3'3 '“V33V' V33V3333- V 3 WV
3.3333 3.3.. 443'333 3333.431??? 3"" 3:33-313... 33%. 3 1333' 3333? 34.33??*33 4:: 3? '34:? 433343333 3'3? 33.3 43..."

3.3 VVVEV'EVC VVIJV: 33??" 3.233441% .{VVZVVVVV‘VV‘VVVWV V 343mm 3.33.. “4m W"? 3333

by @333 W335? 3.333% -V?333?.3333 V433 3 333333 3 3. 'VVVVVV VV3V3VVE3343- V3.3V33 ?V 3343 3334313333 3.11333V'3333V

' Vi.” « 4% 3.; ' VS; V3.1
VIVVV 544?.3 VIVVZVV 553313.;

3.. 3.3.3:"i'3V

(V 3:?3433VV 44"? 333333343”: 3.333.333.3333“ 33 "V? V‘ .33: 3'33 344334333)

4 344-4?V .3... .33
mm
2? 3444' 33.33 33.3" (333%.3313 4"“?1333'" 3?.344 3'": 2V4 V. V33 V3.3? VVVVV
345:4 333V 4%; 1334' .. 4r... '4: 44:33 .3433..- “444 'V?‘
3.333.333.3933, V 3 .3333: 343333 V}? 'VV'V V 3'4 VIVV'V.
V33333V4'4VV4':'3V.4V44? 33V 44" 31"‘3. 34V» VVVVV‘ 3V4" 33? 34" 3:33:33

Ewan 34 ”33344.333333343 9: 4. .4334V'3‘43V3V 33.... 4V3“ “'3'

33 .5‘ . .. "3.74.433 . «4. 434433 .' . ‘
433343 633331? .3. 3:3 33?“. V3333 {4:14333333

”V1" €413 V- ‘zw “V; .3" V "' 3‘. V“; -;.. '3: 3 3., 3 M‘ 3:; 4 .
3"} «EVA: ﬁe? .; .3": 3.333.3{2333}; “Eff‘ﬁ », :2.” “V’Vlﬂz SEVVQ ﬁ {:53 V53“. V9? 3 3? 93; 3V? *3 WV“? VEWVRVV VVV i 553%.”: V4.35 V3? EVVVVVVVVVg‘zVVVVVVVt

.14..

333, $1333 Wm"; “V. 433' 3:33” 3&3? .33 3'“? 33..-?V $333331“ 33333313. 333:?" 3333.33. “33...... 3V3: «r 9:25. .33 Z333VVVV3-333

3),...4333 3...}. 4; *4 w 3 ’ ' . ,3 .3 .3 p; '. V4. 343 .
3 V4 .423 443.3 33343 3~ZV334VV333V 3. 33:43" 33.. V333? V433" ‘ 3?" 2V. 3" 34333.. 33"33 3:33. V... V433... 333'33'VVV3

V1.44»; ~‘ 454% 4- ,4, .4 9.1-.3 V} V .
45431": £35335” V333“ “V... ~. 3 V1333 V3343:
‘ {a

444443343; V .3 2:... $333.39: 3%. V34 3:? 3...“. i314333VtV
334' 3'3 333V 3V 3333.33": 6?“
VV- “by?“ Vm ”WV” 4?: V3.» V3.33. .3 V} VVVVV
33 V372" 333333 33343343.“: 4 'z. :r3;?4:§: - 33 "’31 E3334 3'33 44 3VV334344'
.. 3333343343.".

333 33:33.33? 334:: 333332, 3:34.33. .33 r3313. $433.34 2: 3, 3:3,? 3.333;. 3333

:3 V333 33'" 3334333433333, :31: 3333? 333.333.33.333.

 




' ' 2 I an. ,_ La. I . 33);, :z-k :3 Wt) 21% t
33133333333333 3 33.33333. 3: 33 :33: I33

133 331333 11333;“ ”If :3

:33

3'.
«94*:

.313 a"; u
glgkat} A;

I31; I33 333’ I33 ,3

.91; -. I _ ;
if any; 53$ "If“! 34% {‘2 ;, 432?!
I. I»: - 3.3 321-373 , “a

2'51“ I3 «51¢ -~

I is 3.3 -'j- 31%

£133; #5 STA-E-

33

III3I3I $3“ 3333 3 I3; 33333 I333; 33

33333333313

13:: 3333 333:3 3133: 3:33: 33%3

3 {“33”
I 133: 11: 1141331313333”

. ._ an 3‘ 3 , .. _,, w. 3
a adﬂfg‘ﬁ if: 131;»; 3‘ it ”‘5; 33333131131539;

*3. , I133}. 333 I133 3333

3333;333:1333 MIMI I333 “33333 (I. I133 33333 ~ III

.33? ; 3“. ‘3?

”.5" - 1 . In'ﬁc’i “3.”:
«3%? I 31311:?
3733. 393  I

“Wit $1 $31

‘IW

A z" "‘- ~I ' n
333 33333333 33
3.333% 33:33 33311333333333!
£33333 3133 I133 I3 I’

. 35L,

3:». w
'33. *5

33333333 I333 ”IIIEIII' £1 3333?

£333 333“ 333333

:I‘I‘I333II 13:3

I I3; ”:13 333:: 533333; ; "I; ,1, “3?”:3 I; 333313 31¢
3U” iﬁﬁ3£ﬁwmﬁswg 53% {3} 2,31,?" i 3...}: ;

@132. I: '52}

- ~$€u «£324 W
£33. AS 33"; I

{‘9

ﬁﬁmgﬁf‘i’; 33:1.\ :1.» .3; $3., yékﬁgﬁgﬁlﬁﬂgﬂ ‘43.?

33333
In}! 1 .- g d- H 3w £3; #1:: .
III III III w W333;- Iz3 33:33. 33333

“WEN “‘1’ 3.; 3;,

1333 3:3» 333 33” 3. 3333 .2 I3 333 33: »,» 333133 3333; 333*
3;; ;;III£333I3II 3.1» :3 ‘33“? 333%; 33233353.

1‘ :éWW‘C‘E :;

“1314»: 14-19%

33333

3; 333 333333;; 2’3: 333 3:13 3333:“ 3.333 35133333333
3333-33 1.33 33333 “33.: 3'. 3333 3333 M333 333 :1 I33 33.33331

IIIm-I IIIII33; 1331 33 3333313333" 113133 3* ' 3* 133*
I3I= 37:: :13; *3 3373; W. 333‘113?“ W333 33.1.3 I33

.31 3333333333233 131 3II333:

III 1333333333351: 3133. 33m

-;$ghIm~1-3333 Jawmﬁyg {3 {33:33:33 3III $3353 3.33.23 333-3334133331 331$

I; r—a 1*":
419%" 3;

3; 513333 33 333333113 333 I33 33.3333 333’.“ 333: III M ~ ' 33333333..“

 




#91:" Fria‘ 1 ‘ 1
4n {355.13. xv 1 ‘

1.7..-

§3§33331§39w33~~z

" . _ .
~ v.3 at“ , ‘ «w
w

 

3* 4.1 1 .11.»; . 1:3 1 . 3.1 1.1, <4 '3 . 1. “a 11} w?“
-, v.3: a ,rri ‘f"% I"! 1 - .ﬁ .‘v- 5ft .. 11"; = 1 1;; 3“»: y 1- v
T; 11L ’3 bw1€.1i.;.zi C3- 41. 9%};{3 M3312: 2:? i3; . 2.111,? Amwwf 2:.» 1a

iﬁﬁitwﬁ ﬁg %5 grmﬁﬁmﬁq

, ,, x {7 1 “.3 ,; _ '$‘% 31‘“ ‘ g “g 5;] 1 11 wry-=1- .‘ 1» ’3; :"‘-'-. .1' ”.49..
513' 131.3%???31 £3373 331333”? «:31»: f1; ﬁngzmamﬁ

.341] ‘ .r‘ “a? ﬁn). {f}. . :- 9“ 1‘
5235373" 311:}: an 1327?:

t
m. 317-: n: A ”iv-run“ .11,

 




 

 

 

         

 

 

       

 

       
   

 

     

I .
z r! .\ g , a -_ >. , . ' .
*1 ‘ . 1 ‘1 ‘ A , , - V
.' ‘ . a ‘ ’ , '1 l -
,\. _ . . . ‘ ~ ' . . r
, ‘ p' K A M ‘ l~ .. . a a 7".” N n V
‘ y A} 3. .L .
. “M Cf yr :- ‘
.4 w «‘- ~ ' - ‘
« ‘ 4 >4- , w. v ‘3. ‘-
7 H; ; 1- ~' ' " ‘ “‘ V
a ‘ V ~ 5 5 "7, a 5‘
my - x ,5 ' E ' ’ '
w; - . .‘ n 3 n w .73» «a» 'tha 7, V .
. ‘ ‘
5 J' 3 < ‘
7." .LI ‘ a ' ‘
a .5 1,: ‘ -.
gm“ an. n,» we“;

     

ﬁ .
‘N 1“) ix

:'-_ "_
we! 3‘ ‘5 1‘ :s‘

 

   

 

   

 

 

   

 
 

 

     

 

         

     
 

             
                   
                
     

                     
           
                   

. ‘ ‘
r‘\_ \' z;- ', .31. ‘-
f , - w“ ‘5 ,s. -.
~- -: a! 1W
’
V ' . .1 ‘.
, . ‘, . {m
» .::~-, ~..: “5‘
Cw. ‘ ‘
5. § A'
17 . , 4 «V
A .-..‘ 1 t ‘ ‘
,m. V
9. V . . 5‘ "
. It"? ' ' u x ~
‘rfl - ' 1 '
”“3" ». - ' .. .
,I e . w , , . “ '
. , , , r 3 ‘ - ‘
. _, ; _‘ ~ . ‘- J _‘ ‘5 ‘- .‘ K v
V ‘ ‘1 . a x , , , ' ‘
‘ ‘ , :3 .V ‘ ‘ 3'11 . ‘ _ , ,
‘ w v . . - _. g‘ N - N ii.- ;. -
2 n " ’ ‘ ‘ . . 1.7::- , A;
. . _
‘ 5 r . f .‘
-_ ‘ .» ‘. .' . ‘ a ‘» A ‘ 1
.- ‘ , . ‘ , _ “ ‘ I
~« ~' “ - 4.1%: x sag, L 1, . =__ “5’. 1 v ‘ . _ ‘ ‘7 ‘ - . ' . \ . ~,
| . ., ‘ z, .7. . .ﬁ L.. , 5‘ _
' x .1 ' ‘
:7 , I}! ‘ . , .3 "t - (n . i . 3,
- u ' ' ‘42“ u'y‘ ‘ ",J 1. n; ‘1‘ ‘ , ,.~ . ' ‘ ; v ;
u .xa . 3 x_ . a‘ . . . . ‘ . . 4 u' ' '
.y V w H i
. - , ‘ . ' : ' q
‘ , . “my: . 0 r 4. ., ¢ . ,. ., ; » ‘ '- 4
, “ . a . ‘ 4 . . ‘ r. v ,_ ‘ ‘ _ . ‘
< » . , ,' . ‘. ‘ 1 . ‘. 4. L ‘ , « , 5 v , ‘ >
h n ‘ h- ~ (If ~ _ \¥~.{¢“r . Q: -~ &- . 1-, ,~ _ _. ’ '3‘» 1‘. .. ~ , A .~ 2 . ) ‘ '
, K ,4 . ~ ' i" 45/ »~. . - :..r ‘,~ nu
{K N I v j I
‘ h .‘ , 4
.w r, . V5 , » ., w, ‘ ., "a. z « : h _ ~ ' , .- A ~~

 




*“JWWWWISWriWWWWW thvaﬁ3 ~

' WW WWWWWWWWW WW WWW WfWWWW WWWW will imWWWWW WWW WWWli 6i WWWWWWW WWW WWWWII-
[WW WWW WW WWWWWWWWW WWWW WW WWWWW WWWW WWW WWWW WWWWW 3.WWW 1W WWWWW WWWWWWWWW ‘

3:; WW WlWW WWWWWWWWW WW WWW WWWWWWWWW WWWW WWWWW iW WWWW fWW WWWf WWWWW WWVWWWWW
”"-WWWW Wf WWWWWiWuWW .WWWW Will WWWWWW WW3W3 WWW WW WWWWWWWWWW WWWW Will WWWWWW

‘W-VWhW ﬁﬂﬂbﬁf‘ﬁf'animulW WWWWWWWW. IW WW Wtill WWWWWWWWW WW iWWWWulWWW giinWW
'3,pigW WW WWWW fWr WWWWWWWIWW1W3 WWW WWWWW WWWWWWWW in WWW WWWlW WWWIW WWWWWWW
‘”WWWWWWW WWWW‘WWWlW WWWW WWW WWWWWWWWW WWW WWW WWW Wf WWWW 1 WWWWWWWWWWWW WWW
any WWW inW tWWt‘ WWWQWWWWTWW If WWWWW WWWW WWWW 3QWXWWV WWW33 W WW WWWW WW
.WWWWWWp W WWWW WWWW WWWWW WW WW WWlinlW WW WWW gWinwW WWW WWWW WWW WWW WWWW~
'WWWi 5 WW WWWWWWWIWWWW, WWW WWWWW WW WWWWW W WWWWWWWWWW WWWWWWWW. FWWWWWEW
’WhuﬂérWﬂW.WW WWWWWWWWW Wf WWWWWW WWWW W yﬂaf‘ﬁﬁwwﬂ WWW WWWW WW WW WWWWWWWWWWWW

QWWW WWuWy Wf WWWWWWWWWWW WWWWWWWW 1W WWWW WWWWWWWWW3- WWWWinWW'iW WWW WWWW

:23 WE WWWW. WWWWWW WWW WWW WWWWWWWW Wf WWWW WWWW WWgW3 WWWWW WWWWlW WW WWWWWWWWW

'WWWWWWIW'WWWW‘WWWWWWWW3 WWWWWWWW WWWWWWWWWWWW WWWWWW WWW WW WlWWWW WW: WWW 1
peWiWiWW Wf WWiWW fWrWWW WW buy WWgW WWWW WWW WWWIWWW WWWEW WWWWWWWWW WW WWW
‘WWWWWW deW WWW bWiWW kil‘tﬂ. IW WW WWWWWW WW Will WWWWW WWWWWWWW WW3 WW WWWW
' WW 1:11.33 WWW}? “Why WWWW W Wm}? WWWWWW WWWWWWW? . »

'””WW WWWWWWiWW WWWIWWWWWWWWJW'WW WWW WWWWWWWWW WW WWW WWW iW “riﬂgiplﬁﬁ'fﬁf WWW:
WWWWiWuWW3 WWW WW WWW prinaiplWW WWWliWWW in WWW WpWWWWWWW, WWWW WWW WWWWWVWW'
'W’iﬂﬁW‘ ﬁntlviVWWWctlﬂﬂ fWWWWW3'WWW WWWWWWWWWWW WWWWWW WWW WWW WW WW WWquWWd
IZWith WWWWWW gWWWpW. WWWW WWWWWW WWWWWWW liWW WW3 WEWWWW W. WWWWWWWWW WW WWW W 1'
'. WWWWWWl GWWWWW3 WWWWWWWW3 WWWW WWWWlWW WWWWWWff Wf WWWiWWillW31WWWWuWWy3 WWW "
"WW. WWWWW WWWW WW WWW’XWWW WiWy3 WWW WWW WW WW WWWWWWWW with WWG'WW‘, WW WWWWIWWW
WW WWW WWWW WW~ WW WWWWWWW WW WWW ”WWWWWWW WWWWWWWW, W3W3 WWW WWWW WWWWWWWW‘

VWith WWWWWWWWWWW WWWW WWWW WWWWWWWWWWWWiWW. v

_W.WWWWWW WraniWWWiWW3 fWWW fWWW WWW WWWWW 0f WWWWWWWWWWWWWWW i WWWW W3 WW .
WWWWWW. WW WWWW WWW WWWW:1 WWliWrW LWWWWWWWW Will WW WWWW WWWW ﬁiWatiﬁaui‘

WiWWWWle‘wa WW

5 o 3‘ I14 BFWWWX‘f ﬁcV'cfén , FEWQBG,
“ Chﬁirmﬂﬁ:

3333me

£333 My} n W W W ‘ ; 3“: "333:
WWW out. 3.: WW 2:3 3:23. WWW-3:133“ :
Eifg 3&1 MUM WWW: r ‘ 3
WWW W 11331::VW “ ”ﬁlm

.7. % ut- PV:‘ ,7" 1. I)", ’9
wiWW WWWWW W WWWWWWWW

 




HumaniIY
above all

MME. CHIAN G RALSHEK.

I I "'WI‘NEII") (17111"?‘3134 r:

OFFlCERS

[1)??? ‘" 3" £4," 1‘? .7} f"

. .. F.‘ "V - ,. .. 2'17.
33215an a... i. Langersen, inf...

.1...“,_ F‘,,,.L ".,v,\
i r“ I’"?<..\.-’:‘?rt‘}?'lt

5.2)01‘2. o. 3. d M 3 B 1? :2 d e

2- inf. .. ‘i ' "“~
”I ~' 3... :.v‘1!::£<~3f1‘2§( .ini}.

Q..- .-.,.-. . .. rpa. (a.
2.. at:‘J‘dlLIIAgbUUS, .3

- ”It "’is‘~.f:3-nste3f. MU.

.» kr‘w
riougnien 5:12;).3 1,- ‘2.
.y-‘ t "i". ‘_.

.3 11322,:

no. wand H. r2313... . .

l .. T"! , T. . . . . *
Leno"; 30.3mm

if... =1.F",’rV ‘_*

3327.43. Mantel .311. .

in...” .. . *2. if ‘r‘

:‘3. uubney Serf
W "‘3 . %. K "‘.

:1. z}. amaze. 5

- w) v a . » u - ,>
sinner? A. .L.2:\z:i-:1.r:2ei€, 3.1.1.2.
9" 1-2~ "5" 21$. 1“€

an; ,1 than...

3“ £1" -.‘..e-... ‘ 3.1“" I
,[Uﬂfl p.32. LLE'JEL ‘.1‘.~'.,I‘.,.‘IC1. 1.1.: f.
I; »... . 'f 7 , ,;

.y 13.3? .1- 2.12.5?13nq

'3 4?: f i X- I" '-'. h; 5“ 7":

;.2..2.r..rz:3e I... maiden, “3.5.-
K! - 5. 47 T1,

.3‘2.’?‘"'13{"y r... irieleneii 3

Ch. ih M e n :2

Fain: NECK. “we 3.31573.
?".I:X‘.v¥€9m29 I‘doz‘ris
"Hon-“arc? Meir—r“ ‘Pf‘
Li)- A Mora. MD
Jim'ﬁo‘ l‘iaifaicger, ”l“
aiﬂuggie‘ "52.2‘". Oliver, 3‘37“.

.1. 1.. r.

re.“ 3.”;

x.'|.. $.11.
- 'v. V‘... 3...:
Leeann Rex Homnson
" 7 ‘-‘ 3‘“ Q" .- rn 7”"
'i.u‘~.':‘:(;_m'r 0.2. ﬁC-OI, r;’:..:.).
r. :1 . 3.; ' 7x
9-3.1:; ocllhngti. M...-.

"Mack, 33.. Mi").

{3

me:

u
I.“
#9
r»!

p m
.. sprunf, MM.

a_$‘-‘.'g\‘zﬁjf‘;
enema, EMA/3.

I")

U)
N i

Q.

2:73: cf! -3
. \,

..

I

a.

r: :4

I‘r‘lgi‘ '
iii/"2. :t, in
l

c "7 ("N t 3 1 "
. J. -.’:,:.Sx:nez“, will.

"1'3

' In; v.- v 1‘ 3‘ 7v
.251” ii. V9995 i}! .r.»’§.i)~
it»... 3‘ ti" ‘

3rmep1 .391

"‘ TAN-H2 .. , F:- .. x
Hi 3*... “w nncmzs... (.3. .
“m . 1 “I {it 1.2., '7‘. ‘
“DU"! 5:1. ¥\‘33I.Ii7m$ f1.“ .
“W 7‘“ U‘-

H». K 3 .x 5.1-;

.
1377!: J: .3 ~-,'. -.

"I" ‘ " ‘ .‘~ ,. if” m ﬁr ’* '. ‘ .y’i . xgzﬂ‘ﬁ' .
griduohdi Hecdqumrers ; {3923 n:%t.>.-~.DV: $2.1" {:2

9.x.cunno

gii-‘UH‘JVV iris"? Ptfddrfﬁi"

DONALD D. VAN. SLYKE. FBI). EU Bﬂlﬂ‘

. .. 2 1 'i - .‘141.’ "’21” 71.2;—
H mo mm» .93? m an 1‘: mar»? z 23' * ~“ 4% ’-‘

HON. VJELLINGTON KOO

H 2“» n u sm‘j. P9"? .3353"! r? .'

.3 .=‘T..».e;?"r.r;:.m ("in-.2.- :1“..2:,¢rm‘axrfa3"

2 7 Y
3' :c’: 2: V.‘ n

3:: < (I i3.-:zrm:::: Nag-f3". {1‘ ommm u

i..2.’g:z£ 3’. name:
.- ‘1 , .r. -. -. ‘ " .41.:
..;.:"II.~.-.‘-Il2‘...£: Malena.

..l‘{s.r?.‘.v".zzi Difa'Wr

2:3 ,‘3.., f- 2"
5. mean: 431.14.. 31.13.

iirrrrzn‘iz‘a Swm‘a r}
‘ 7'1:

2,... :‘i do}. cum 3:: ,. 3

Dear Fellow Scientist:

Several of our colleagues have expressed surprise that
conditions in China enabled us to carry out the cooperative
research reported in the enclosed reprints. They have
encouraged us to send copies to our friends in various parts
of the United States. These reprints are tangible evidence
of the revival of the Chinese Journal of Physiology, publi-
cation of which was suspended during the war years.

As you know; there has been a deliberate effort to
discredit China. Facts Which would have encouraged us in
the scientific and medical fields to give greater moral and
financial support to our Chinese colleagues have been ignored
or suppressed. Few people know what has been done in China
even during the difficult post~war years to develop medical
education and to stimulate scientific investigation.

we hope the scientific reprints and the two short
articles from China in America 'will arouse your interest
because they giVe a differentwslant on China than you are
getting from the press.

Yours sincerely,

MAGNUS I. GREGERSEN
WALTER S. ROOT

Dept. of Physiology
College of Physicians & Surgeons
Columbia University
New York 32, N.Y.

Enclosures: h reprints

Cooperating wiih United Service to China

 




  
  
  
    
   
   
   
   
   
     
    
        
  
    
     
  
    
 
    
   
   
    
 
   
     
 
   

REQUEST FOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH

The National Society for Medical Research has as its primary functions:

a. Combatting throughout the country antivivisection propaganda
that is aimed at preventing the use of animals for experimental
purposes in our laboratories.

 

b. Securing the passage of city, state and national legislation of
a positive nature directing that impounded animals be made avail~
able to laboratories rather than being wastefully killed.

The Society has already achieved noteworthy results and demonstrated its
ability to serve these ends effectively. You have received its attractive
bi~monthly BULLETIN for the past three and a half years with accurate and
informative articles and news about this fight that concerns every experi~
mental biologist.

The support of the National Society for Medical Research is derived chiefly
from voluntary'gifts. It is asking this year that each member of the Socie~
ties comprising the Federation make a contribution of at least one dollar

toward its work.

  

At the Federation meetings in Atlantic City in April, the Executive Com—
mittee strongly endorsed this request and urged that all members contribute
liberally to the NSMR to suuport the prOgram that is vital to all experi—

mental biological research.

  

Please send your contribution to the Treasurer of your Society (you may
add it to your check for dues), who will transmit it to the NSMR. Or, if
you prefer, you may send it directly to:

The National Society for Medical Research

25 E. Washington Street
Chicago 2, Illinois

Please tear off and return the stub below

 

 
  

Enclosed is my contribution of $ to the National Society for
Medical Research, for support of the program to keep animal experimentation
available in biological laboratories.

 

Signature

 

 




D

f

H. E. MOCK. CHAIRMAN. CHICAGO. ILL. . . . . FRANK H. KRUSEN. ROCHESTER. MINN.
EBEN J. CAREY. MILWAUKEE. WIS. Prtfan mphtfal Aﬁﬁanattnn FRANK R. OBER. BOSTON. MAss.
ANTHONY c. CIPOLLARO. NEw YORK Cny I RALPH PEMBERTON. PHILADELPHIA. PA.
w. w. COBLENTZ. WASHINGTON. D. c. 1 H. a. WILLIAMS. NEW yonx Cm
J. s. COULTER. cmcmo. ILL. COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY HOWARD A. CARTER. SECRETARY. Cchso
A. U. DESJARDINS. ROCHESTER MINN.

' MORRIS FISHBEIN. CHICAGO ILL. EX
FRANK D. DICKSON. KANSAS Cm. Mo. ' I
W. E. GARREY. NASHVILLE.TENN. OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. OFFICIO

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
535 N. DEARBORN STREET. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.

September 15, 1941

Dr. Robert Gesell
University of Michigan
Medical School

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Doctor Gesell:

The Council on Physical Therapy is interested
in the physiology of respiration, especially as applied
to the use of emergency respiration equipment, namely,
inhalators and resuscitators. The Council is planning
to have some research done which will aid in reaching
a decision regarding certain claims made for the various
methods of resuscitation commonly used. This research
is to be carried out on dogs or other animals.

Without going into the matter any further I am
writing to find out whether you will be in Ann Arbor
Saturday morning, September 20th. I am planning a
motor trip to Detroit to visit friends and if convenient
to you I should like to have about an hour with you
along about ten o'clock Saturday.

I will appreciate hearing from you at your

convenience.
Very truly yours, W
WQ /

Howard A. Carter, Secretary
Council on Physical Therapy‘

HAC:EM

 




II. E. MOCK. CHAIRMAN, CHICAGO. ILL. o . .
0 FRANK H. KRUSEN. ROCHESTER. MINN.
535" 1- “REY- ”'LWAUKEE- W'S- AmPrUan mPhWal Aﬁﬁnnatmn FRANK R. OBER. sosm, MAss.
. ANTHONY C. CIPOLLARO. NEW YORK CITY RALPH PEMBERTON PHILADELPHIA PA
.' w. W. COBLENTZ. WASHINGTON. D. C. H. B. WILLIAMS NEW YORK cn-y . .

.( y‘ I J. S. COULTER. CHICAGO. ILL. -
.5 A. u. DESJARDINS. Rocnssnan. MIN". COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY HOWARD A. CARTER. Secnznav. emcmo

FRANK D. mcxson. KANSAS em. Mo. . MORR'S FISHBE‘N- CH'CAGO- ”L I EX
W. E. GARREY. NASHVILLE.TENN. OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. OFFICIo

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
535 N. DEARBORN STREET. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.

September 25, 1941

Dr. Robert Gesell
University of Michigan
Medical School
Ann.Arbor, Michigan

Dear Doctor Gesell:

Many thanks for giving me a portion of your
valuable time in an interview last Saturday. As I
explained to you the Council is particularly interested
in.the problem of artificial respiration. The Council
has accepted apparatus which has to do with two methods
of giving artificial respiration; (l) the inhalator
type which is used in conjunction with the Schafer Prone
Pressure Method, or any other type of manual respiration
and (2) an entirely mechanical outfit which produces,
alternating positive and negative pressures. The latter,
as far as the accepted apparatus is concerned, is known
as the E & J Resuscitator and Inhalator; however, there
are at least two more of these machines on the market
and requests for consideration have been received from
them.

The Council is particularly interested in
your cooperation, principally in connection with
repeating physiological experiments. Some of the
experiments have been used as evidence for Council
acceptance, for the suck and blow method. The articles
that describe the experiments which the Council would
like to have repeated may be found in the following:

(lLl) "Artificial Respiration and Inhalation" by Yandell
Henderson, Ph.D. and J. McCullough Turner, Ph.D.,
JAMA 116:1508—1515 (April 5) 1941;4(2) "Mechanical. .
Resuscitation in Advanced Forms of Asphyxia: A Clinical
and Experimental Study of the Different Methods of. -,
Resuscitation" by Pol N. Cor llos, M.D., SURG. GYNECOLOGY
AND OBSTETRICS 66:698 (Aprilg 1958 and (5) the work of

Samuel A. Thompson and George L. Birnbaum, New York
Medical College, yet unpublished, and copy of which
will be sent along in a few days. A COpy of the
Henderson-Turner article is enclosed, but I regret
I do not have a copy of Dr. Coryllos' article. No
doubt you have access to it in.your library.

 




September 25, 1941

Dr. Robert Gesell
Page two

As pointed out in our interview the Council
does not have funds to pay salaries; however, there is
enclosed an application for a grant in aid of research
so that you can be supplied with materials such as dogs,
gas and other laboratory necessities to get started in
this problem. In View of the importance of this matter
it is probable that you will find a worthy student Who
will be willing to go forward with this work with the
idea of writing a thesis and it is probable that,
avenues of research will be opened which will lead to
something significant on which to write a paper. I
suggest that you make application for $200.00 which
is the top amount the Council ordinarily grants to
investigators. You are asked to fill out the applica—
tions in triplicate. '

The E & J Company has submitted to the Council
an E & J Resuscitator which I can send you immediately
upon receipt of a notice from you of the exact place'
to which you onld like to have it sent. Your local
surgical dealer will undoubtedly be in a position to
furnish the necessary gas to operate the apparatus.

May I suggest that you keep the identity of
the apparatus a secret as far as possible and if
anything should happen to go wrong with the apparatus
and it needs adjustment, please communicate with me
instead of with the firm. I make this suggestion
because if the firm finds out your name you may be
bothered by representatives seeking information.

If there is any further information.you desire, please
do not hesitate to inquire.

The Council will appreciate your willingness

to aid it in this study.
Very truly yours, (2229*:2iiiij
goward A. Carter, Secretary

Council on Physical Therapy

 




It h" E bean Eiffimﬂt 35;; ﬁnd EMEME E313}:- EEEQEEEE
Emmy End mﬁfiemnt time to am" E the Emblem Ef EEEchitE-tian.
77E firming dimovErEE tam brEEhErE, Frank Rt. E1113, End
E E 11E, Elm ErE EblE tr: EEVME about two afternonm
' ' ‘ I EE EEEE that thE ErmblEE 63mm ,
t. in ﬁlm EEJtIEE I Emild try 139 ﬁns: lath-Er
EEE EmEriEEEEE. . If the..E EEEEition Em ‘
Et VEE EEEIE EEEE thE maxim“ EErE in;

E..- :EEE 63E,”
. than will mat meant
FEE rEEEEt Eh j mathaﬁa Er Garyllaa.

‘ EE'IP‘E EEE NEE-En
Each frightful enmity is mammal EEE Eight
I (IE hEEE that m. E113. WIEE 45113 37mm EE13. ETEEE 7»
EEE mt yam:- intEntiaE ta WEE thE EEE Ef En»

 




APPLICATION PoP GRANT
IN AID OF RESEARCH

 

To the Committee on Scientiﬁc Research of the COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY:

I herewith make application for a grant ofP «53:3. .dollars, to enable me to carry on an investigation
for the purpose and in the manner described as follows:
. . . . . PP'PP'PPPP‘PPWWPM PP” PPPPPPPPPPPPPPP-PPP PP
Object of investigatlon c0nc15ely "
stated. (Details can be com—

municated in accompanying let-
ter if necessary.)

~ P PPPPPPPP PP PPP?’ PPPPPPPPPP PPPP PPWPPPPPP “PM

Reasons why grant is needed. P
(Please state fully.)

. WP imPhPPPPPPP WPPPPP; mm IPPPP PM

How appropriation is to be P
expended.

l

“211 »- PP PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP PPP’PP PPPPP “MPPPPPPPPP‘ PPS.“ PPPPP
PPPPPPPPPPPPP PPP‘ PPPPPPPP PP PP PPP PPPPPPPPPP .9 PP” PEPP‘PPPP PPPP‘PPP

, . MPPPPPPPPP PPPPP PM. man. PP PPPPP PPPPPPPPPP PP PPPPPPPPPP‘P f‘iPP’PPPPPPP.
How payments are desrred; 1. e.,
whether in a single sum or in P \
instalments, and at what dates.

 

In case such grant shall be made, I engage strictly to conform to the rules, printed on the back of this -
application, adopted by the Committee on Scientiﬁc Research for the administration of grants by the Council

on Physical Therapy.
Yours respectfully,

 

 




RULES ADOPTED BY THE
COMMITTEE ON SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH

OF THE

COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY

OF THE

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
535 North Dearborn Street, Chicago

 

Applications for grants may be made to any member of the Committee.

The Committee will give every application careful consideration, but will not assign reasons for declining

in cases in which grants are deemed inexpedient.

When a grant is made, the applicant will be notiﬁed to that effect, and payment made as arranged in

each case. The Committee reserves the right to designate trustees to administer grants.

An account of all expenditures, accompanied by detailed vouchers, must be rendered to the Committee by
the grantee or trustee of the grant, at the conclusion of the investigation for which the grant was made,

and at such other times as may be required by the Committee.

All apparatus or materials purchased with grants from this Committee are to be regarded as the prop—
erty of the Council on Physical Therapy of the American Medical Association, and when the investigation

is completed are to be subject to the disposition of the Committee.

When a grant is made for a speciﬁed purpose it must be used for that purpose only. If the recipient
desires to change in any manner the subject of this investigation, he should notify the Committee and make

application in the usual form for a new appropriation.

Any part of a grant not needed for the completion of the investigation for which the application was

originally made shall be returned to the Council on Physical Therapy of the American Medical Association.

All articles presenting results of the investigations aided by grants from this Committee shall carry a
note to that effect, e. g., “Aided by a grant from the Council on Physical Therapy of the American Medical

Association.”

Twenty reprints or copies of all articles describing results of investigations aided by grants from the
Committee shall be sent to the Secretary of the Council on Physical Therapy of the American Medical

Association.

 




H. E. HOCK. CHAIRMAN. CHICAGO. ILL.
FRANK H KRUSEN ROCHESTER MIHH.

EBEN J. CAREY. MILWAUKEE. Wis. Amfrifan manifal Aﬁﬁﬂﬁﬁtiﬂn FRANK R: OBER. BOSTON. "Ass:

ANTHONY c. CIPOLLARO. NEW YORK CITY
W. W. COBLENTZ. W‘smmmu. D. c. RALPH PEMBERTON. PHILADELPHIA. PA.
H. B. WILLIAMS. New YORK CITY

J. 3. coULTER. CHICAGO. ILL. ‘ COUNCIL ON PHYSlCAL THERAPY HOWARD II. CARTER. SECRETARY. cmcmo

A. II. DESJARDINS. ROCHESTER. MINN.
FRANK D. chxsou, KANSAS cm. ml MORRIS FISHBEIN. Cchco. ILI... Ex
OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. OFFICIO

w. E. GARREY. NASHVILLE. TENN.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
535 N. DEARBORN STREET. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.

October l5, 1941

Dr. Robert Gesell
University of Michigan
Physiology Laboratory
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Doctor Gesell:

This acknowledges receipt of your letter of
October 10th. I wish to thank you very much for offering
to c00perate with the Council.

I am sending to you by express prepaid one of
the E & J Resuscitators and Inhalators which you may
wish to turn over to Mr. Frank Ellis and Mr. Michael
Ellis, so that they can become acquainted with the
equipment.

I would advise you on my own responsibility
to do this work with anesthetized dogs, especially while
becoming acquainted with the equipment. I shall, however,
refer your letter to the Committee on Research and also
the Council so that they can.have an opportunity to
comment on.your opinions.

I have been talking to a manufactUrer of a
chest respirator, hoping that I might be able to pursuade
him to submit the bellows used for creating the negative
pressure. Such a device as this would probably help and
might give you the motive power to perform the experiment

have
not as yet been.able to secure a Pavaex appliance but

will look around.

Another thing i am doing is to make an effort
to obtain a motion picture film prepared by the late
Dr. Coryllos that depicts his method quite clearly.
I will send it to you so that you can run through it
a couple of times to familiarize yourself with Coryllos'
method. There are mixed opinions relative to Dr. Coryllos'
work; however those who knew him believe that he was a
careful worker and very sincere.

Very truly yours, ‘
Md *
6) ./ E

ﬂoward A. Carter, Secretary

'ns*w ' ‘D ‘ “‘ mhera
hkbzaM CounCil on .hySical l py

 




maids 3313333 3333
" ' ts: 3w”

 




H. E. MOCK. CHAIRMAN. CHICAGO. ILL.

o o o o FRANK H. KRUSEN. ROCHESTER. M .
c Ammmn Mehtral Aaannatmn a.
w. w. COBLENTZ. WASHINGTON. o. c. :ALBPerLELTESSngu22:20:12“. PA-

J. S. COULTER. CHICAGO. ILL. COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY HOWARD A. CARTER. SECRETARY. CHICAGO

A. U. DESJARDINS. ROCHESTER. MINN.
FRANK D. DICKSON. KANSAS cm. Mo. MORRIS FISHBEIN. CHICAGO. ILL} ex
w, E. GARREY. NASHVILLE. TENN. OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. OFFICIO

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
535 N. DEARBORN STREET. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.

October 21, 1941

Dr. Robert Gesell
Physiology Laboratory
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Doctor Gesell:

This acknowledges receipt of your letter of
October 17th.

I have written the E & J Manufacturing Company
requesting a connection so that a commercial sized tank
can be used. It is a good idea and I should have thought
of it before.

- I regret that I do not have a Pavaex unit
so probably it would be best for you to try to obtain
one and at a later date make another request for grant in
aid of research.

If I remember correctly, a question of cruelty
to animals came up in connection with work done on
resuscitation in Canada. I think this work was in support
of the use of the prone pressure type of resuscitation.

Dr. Coryllos' adOption of that form of investigation may
have had something to do with the carrying out of the

same rigorous investigation on the blow and suck apparatus.
I am not condoning it and I would be in favor of your using
anesthetized animals. In fact, I believe that was what the
Council had in mind. It would probably be wise for you

to continue along that line unless it is found that that
kind of investigation does not produce the critical results

necessary.
Very truly yours (224::2%§;7
ggward A. Carter, Secretary

Council on Physical Therapy

 




.. .. _.,,;v :«2 macaw Viﬁﬁﬁ mt
mam am the 6131?}-.4, gram {3f {30

.. . Than $321; ”b? mqwmgtmg £115 gm:
iam “v r Mm ammreml Mm .tggj:_'i”i::£«.'

»

1‘?” 3
«s

 




H. E. MOCK. CHAIRMAN. CHICAGO. ILL.

J- Amrrimn mam Aaanriaﬁnn £222: 2: seaming:

ANTHONY c. CIPOLLARO. NEW YORK CITY
w. w. coBLENTZ. WASHINGTON. D. c. RALPH PEMBERTON. PHILADELPHIA. PA.
H. B. WILLIAMS. New YORK CITY

J. 5. COULTER. CHICAGO. ILL. COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY HOWARD A. CARTER. SECRETARY.CHICAGO

A. u. DESJARDINS. ROCHESTER. MINN.
FRANK D. mcxsou, KANSAS CITY. ”0‘ MORRIS FISHBEIN. CHICAGO. ILL} ax

w. E. GARREY. NASHVILLE.TENN. OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. orF|c|o

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
535 N. DEARBORN STREET, CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.

October 29, 1941

Dr. Robert Gesell
University'of’Michigan
Physiology'Laboratory
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Doctor Gesell:

Thank you for your letter of October 27th.

~ The request for grant of $200.00 is making
satisfactory progress and I hope to be able to send a check
to you in the near future.

I am delighted to know that you were able to
buy a second hand Pavaex outfit in your locality.

Within the last two days, I have received
two reels of sixteen millimeter film from Mrs. Pol Coryllos
which record the experiments of Dr. Coryllos. Incidentally,
these films were reviewed by the referee when the E a J
Resuscitator was accepted. It occurred to me that you might
be interested in looking at them. If you are, I can
send them to you for review after which you can return them
to this office for review by the Council. If you have
a sixteen millimeter projector available, the films can
be sent to you for inepection.

I would appreciate hearing from you at your

convenience.
Very truly yours (gag/ziééii.

Howard A. Carter, Secretary
Council on Physical Therapy

 




K.CHAIRMAN. CHICAGO. I .
II. E. “00 LL FRANK H. KRUSEN. ROCHESTER. MINN.

aw Ameriran mvhiml Aaanriaﬁnn R.

Y C. CIPOLLARO. N '
‘NwocNOBLENTZ W‘sﬂlegI: EORCK Clrv RALPH PEMBERTON, PHILADELPHIA. PA.
W. . - . . . H. B. WILLIAMS. NEW YORK CITY

:. f1 ggghzgg'lﬁg'cgsgégtén MM COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY HOWARD AI CARTER. SECRETARY. CHICAGO
an“ a. memo". KANSAS (gm. ”'0. MORRIS FISHBEIN. cmcneo. ILL. I Ex
W. E. GARREY. NASHVILLE.TENN, OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. OFFICIO

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
535 N. DEARBORN STREET. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.

October 31, 1941

Dr. Robert Gesell
Physiology Laboratory
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan

.Dear Doctor Gesell:

I have received the pipe connection for the
E & J Resuscitator and I am sending it on to you by
parcel post. I hope it will be satisfactory.

Very truly yours

52W

Howard A. Carter, Secretary
Council on Physical Therapy

 




v :
viii/(3,; ‘
.n ’
W‘

n

'

'hava inquiraﬁ sham

111mm - mmmwm aim: mm mm ma-
Uﬁiveraity .' [I am that; I my 3136., If

wim I wi I mviaw $11.13 £33123 m“

 




‘ K. CHAIRMAN. CHICAGO. I . T
555?; $2M“. MILWAUKEE, WIS.LL AmPritan mph. al A . to FRANK H. KRUSEN. ROCHESTER. Mm».
. ANTHONY c. cwoumo. NEW YORK Cm It ﬁﬁnrta Inn FRANK R. OBER. BOSTON. MASS.
w, WW D. c. :A;P"wr::::;:*::;,22:35.22“-

j:3‘,iigﬂig'uﬁgfc3cc’éa'3én.Mum. COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY wa'ARo A.“dramsscamancmmo

FRANK D. DICKSON, KANSAS CITY. MO. MORRIS FISHBEIN. CHICAGO. ILL. % EX
w.£,GARREY. NASHVILLE‘TENn_ ' OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. OFFICIO

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
535 N. DEARBORN STREET. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.

November 7, 1941

Dr. Robert Gesell
University of Michigan
Physiology Laboratory
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Doctor Gesell:

I have your letter of November 4th. I am
indeed happy to knoW that you have received the tank
connection.

Under separate cover I am sending you, by
express prepaid, tWo films depicting the Work of
Dr. Coryllos. may I ask that you review these films
at your earliest convenience and return them to this
office as soon as possible, since they are needed for
other purposes. There are several people here at the
A.h.A. that want to look at them, and if you can return
them inside of a week I shall appreciate it. Please
return them by express collect.

Very truly yours,-

c?

OWard A. Carter, Secretary
Council on Physical Therapy

HAC:EM

 




Q chQiQertha QQQt-Qf
QQ QQQQQntQ QWQ QQQQQQ unfair.‘
thQ QQQQQ Qth thQ picthQQVhi

QaliQQQ tth tQQQ iQ QQQQ 0r 1QQQ QQQQQQ anwladgﬂ 5
thQ observ_tigi QQ thQ in£1.iian and ruptura 9f tha?
likQ-Q QQ bQ QQQIQQQ ' ' “'-- Q , A

h 

fﬁaﬁ?ﬁ:a QHQ if ans inquirQQ inte,
;@QQ fact QQQQ an an QQI

 




' CK.CHAIRMAN. CHICAG . I . .

x “55H 30cm“. MILWAUKEE ons LL Amprtran m ho 1 A . to FRANK H. KRUSEN. ROCHESTER. MINN.
AENTHONT C. CIPOLLARO New YORK CITY P Ita ﬁﬁntta In“ FRANK R. OBER' BOSTON. MASS.
w. W. COBLENTZ. WASHINGTON. D. C. RALPH PEMBERTON. PHILADELPHIA. PA.
J. S. COULTER. CHICAGO. ILL.

A.”JENNNSﬁOCHESTm m... COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY SaSIEILi'.“c"ia'2§‘735.2233.cm...

mum n. DICKSON, KANSAS Cm. Mo. MORRIS FISHBEIN. CHICAGO. ILL. I :x
W. E.GARREY. NASHVILLE.TENN. OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. OFFICIO

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
535 N. DEARBORN STREET. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.

November 18, 1941

Dr. Robert Gesell
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Doctor Gesell:

This acknowledges receipt of your letter of
November 13th and also the films which were returned.

You state that you had some difficulty in
appreciating the object of the films. I may say that as
you proceed along in the consideration of the apparatus
and also become acquainted with all the factors involved,
practical, physical and commercial, you will probably
recognize that this film was prepared for the purpose of
answering some of the criticisms that had been made by
the firm's competitors. Whether they successfully
answer the complaints is something I do not know; how~
ever, some of them must have been answered because a
number of the criticisms that had been made before this
film have never been made since.

Very truly yours,

528.9)

.oward a. Carter, Secretary
Council on Physical Therapy

 




H. E. MOCK. CHAIRMAN. CHICAGO. ILL.
EBEN J. CAREY. MILWAUKEE.

FRANK H. KRUSEN. ROCHESTER. MINN.

WIS. Amm‘itatt mphifal Aﬁﬁﬂﬁatinn FRANK R. OBER. BOSTON. MAss.

ANTHONY C. CIPOLLARO. NEW YORK CITY '
RALPH PEMBERTON PHILADELPHIA PA.
.COBLENTZ. WASHING . . . ' .
w. W To" 0 C H. B. WILLIAMS. NEW YORK CITY

J. 5. COULTER. CHICAGO. ILL.

A, U. DESJARDINS. ROCHESTER. MINN.
FRANK D. DICKSON. KANSAS CITY. MO.

COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY HOWARD A. CARTER. SECRETARY. CHICAGO

MORRIS FISHBEIN. emcneo. ILL} Ix
OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. OFFICIO

W. E. GARREY. NASHVILLE. TENN.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
535 N. DEARBORN STREET. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.

January 21, 1942

Dr. Robert Gesell
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Doctor Gesell:

I am enclosing a check for $200.00 which
covers the request you made several months ago for
grant in aid of research. At its recent meeting, the
Council gave further consideration to the problem
regarding artificial respiration and voted to continue
with its survey in which reports are being received

from fire departments all over the country and many
industrial institutions, the Coast Guard and others.

Very truly yours

am

oward A. Carter, Secretary
Council on Physical Therapy

 




HOUSE CF COMMONS
LONDON, S. W. 1
(England)
June 23rd. 1955.

(India)

The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1953

We, the undersigned Members of the House of Commons in London, are friends
of India, and appreciate the initiative she is showing both in domestic and inter~
national affairs. As workers:h1this country for the welfare of animals, it has
afforded us particular pleasure to learn of the introduction recently by Srimati
Rukmini Devi in the Council of States of the Indian Legislature of a Comprehen-
sive measure to bring about the abolition of many cruelties to animals, all of
them anomalies in a land with.such.an inspiring tradition of humaneness—a.tradi~

tion brought alive again in recent years by Mahatma Gandhi’s preaching 0f the
law of AHIMSA (Harmlessness).

We feel sure that enlightened opinion, not only in India, but throughout
the world, will give all needed support to this work, and will watch.with the most
sympathetic interest the progress of Rukmini Devi’s Bill through the Central
Indian Legislature. What India may do in this direction today is bound to encou—
rage Parliaments in other countries to go and do likewise. In this, as in so many
ways, India will be setting a noble example to the rest of the world.

We are, Sir,

Yours faithfully,
SIGNATORIES:

Rt. Hon. Rupert DelxiBere, M. P. Arthur Colegate, M. 9

£ a.

(Lord MayorcﬂTLondon) (Recently introduced:uithe House

(Member of the Council, Royal Society of Commonsziprivate Member’s Bill

for'uuaPreventioncﬁ‘Cruelty'hiAnimals ) on regularizing Ret Shepsmit is
now passed and is an Act of
Parliament)

Peter Freeman, M. P. Anthony Greenwood, M. R., M. A.
(Member of Council, R. S. P. C. A, Sec. Parliamentary Animal Welfare
Former Chairman, India League, LondOn) Group).

. Hon. David R.I3renfell, M. P. r‘. Cold John C, Lockwood, M. P.
Former Secretary of State of Mines (Hon. Treasurer, R. S. P, C. A.)
l940~2. “Father” of the House, 1. e.
oldest elected Member.) .

Brigadier Ralph Rayner M. P. : . BarnettStross,ht P.1W.So.,IW.B.

' (Recently introduced in the House Ch, B.
of Commons a Bill. for Humane Slau— . Hon. 5.. P. Viant, M. P.
ghter of Figs). (Was Asst. Postmaster—General,

1929-31).
(‘W?t. Hon." added to the names shows that the signatory is;a Member of

Her Majesty’s Privy Council.)

Forwarded with compliments by THE BOMBAY HUMANITARIAN LEAGUE.

The above letter is the true Copy of the letter sent recently to Srimati
Rukmini Devi, addressed to various Editorscm7the News~papers by the Signatories
who are the members of the House <1f Commons, London.lt is requested that it
should be given wide publicity through Newspapers Euuiother-wise all over Indiaq

J. N. Mankar
149, Shroff Bazar, Honorary Secretary

 




Gnumii an» I’hivisical
535 I3 Haar’bom 38mm

thick; I had arrangm fur tha maumitntim s-
chu will meal “that m almanac:
Visdsaimd an aarIg

"115.3% mm m much him-sigma for maniiiﬁmmn *3

athar 351mm.
1 . Ma mm growing mere emf; mere
dimmsainiad that arrangamanm ma net! ._
Flmm Jami t‘natm timaxiwwwﬁng ism E a: J Rewmiiar
tar which was sat iszs thia laberatarvs _ ~ pf:

3

sinaeml? ; yours. '

s‘s

:'~

“ .’

 




2,“ E uocK. CHAIRMAN. CHICAGO. lLL.
'EBENJ CAREY. MILWAUKEE WIS

"urHONY c. CIPOLLARO NEw YORK CITY
y, w. COBLENTZ. WASHINGTON. D. C.
~ 4.5. COULTER. CNICAGO. ILL.

, ll. DESJARDINS. ROCHESTER. MINN.
”mm D. DICKSON. KANSAS CITY. Mo.
ME. GARREY. NASHVILLE.TENN.

T“: 'V‘?

.2.».L o
1:): ..

Emu.

ﬁeEr

o: J

g..- ’16-} F“

sio ogy
University of E

Amerimn mvhiml Aaanriaﬁnn
COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL THERAPY

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.

FRANK H. KRUSEN. ROCHESTER. MINN.
FRANK R. OBER. BOSTON. MASS.

RALPH PEMBERTON. PHILADELPHIA. PA.
H. B. WILLIAMS. NEW YORK CITY
HOWARD A. CARTER. SECRETARY. CHICAGO

MORRIS FISHBEIN. echso. ILL} ax
OLIN WEST. CHICAGO. ILL. OFFICIO

535 N. DEARBORN STREET. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

Robert GEE
LEbO

Arbor, 17C

T“
.Lu

;octor Geselli

1

T Em deepLy .qu {Tao ta TE
EIMEU”’ Léth, “ Ti” 3nau :returned

Jo.3o in

.;
J...
4n

lily

’T- T T C: ".2"
L} , .Lu‘éiﬂL:

no lo anger TnCEIEDT
COD.CT<;LT‘~7 ~£'0 4.: n.
ltd E": E E “‘

substEnT iEl T

supporting ,
the Council is u*:ost intere
the Board of Trus Etees for
:hig Eork. If Eng when the Board of
EVEilEble, I will get in touch With you.
you hold on to the E E J TESUEC’EEEor for

Very truly yours,

WQQM;

Homarc E. CErtE
Council on Physl

 




. “(ﬁbyé " xix; -> 3'.

' 3m?“ ; ‘35.; are”
”‘5'“, " , ,7.
. alinai 45 g

, ‘mi;Ns

mv't

‘1 21,513. m 5
35.53 5312: an mi?” 551’“ .V

 

A ’r<-<_

:51. n




QQ ; QQI 7, 1?}#

IQr,'Q1111QQ Q ‘QtQQQQQQQQ
' eI ”QQQQQ" Q: QQQ YQQQ
(IQ? IQQQ QQQQQQ

HQ” YQI’R, $31:th

QQQr M?

v ”  I hm?” yQQr lwttbr Qf IQVQWQQQ QEQQ.
ngQfa jaw ihe E'W J R9 :QIIQQQQ QQQ IQRQIQIQEQ

£311 LQQQQQ‘L Qf “ts? QQr'
erQij IQIQ QQQ III thQ VQQE I Ix““
QQQIQ mmwﬂ'QQQ QbQQlQQ WQIQQ yQQ mug I“
._QQQIQ‘QQQIQQQQQ, h0hﬁV3r3 tQ QQVI Q yQQ
V b85121 w}: III? ﬁwblll-EY’ " I

Vary QQQIy yaufga

‘RG-‘tﬁtﬁ - “U {1‘13 {gﬁtiylA

 




NEW YORK TESTING LABORATORIES:
PHILADELPHIA Long Island City, N. Y.

GHICAGO E 81 J COMPANY OF NEW YORK FACTORY, Glendale, Calif.

Los ANGELES
AShland 4—6660

101 PARK AVENUE Telephones {Assad 4.6.61
NEW YORK

WILLIAM H. STEPHENSON,
Manager

November 25, 1954.

Professor Robert Gesell,
Department of Physiology,
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Mich.

My dear Prof. Gesell:'

About a month ago I called on Dr. Horatio Williams,

of the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia,
with the hope of securing his assistance in making
certain tests of the E & J Resuscitator and Inhalator
including the following:

Tests of positive and negative pressures
and rhythm on lungs of varying capacities.

Manometer tests of aeration of lungs using
the resuscitator and using manual artificial
respiration.

Tests of apnea resulting in dogs after operat-
ing the resuscitator for varying periods of
time. *

Dr. Williams was unable to do the work at this time

on account of the heavy schedule facing his laboratory,
but suggested that I refer the matter to you. Since
then I have been planning to come to Ann Arbor and pre-
sent the enclosed letter personally but have not been
able to get away, and as it may be another three or
fours weeks before this is possible, I am.writing to
ask if you would consider doing some work of this char-
acter, and roughly what you.estimate it might cost.

Dr. P. N. Coryllos, Prof. of Clinical Surgery at Cornell,
has done 16 operations on dogs with the apparatus, and
is writing a paper summarizing the results. He felt

it would be an excellent plan for you.to supplement this
with.other tests covering more thoroughly the mechanical
approach to the prdblem. You.may want to precede along
other lines than those suggested. This would be quite
agreeable to us. The problem is, to present a thorough
study to the Council on Physical Therapy.

Cordially yours,
;3 

 

 

 

WE DOOUR PART

 

S:T

 

 

RESUSCITATION AND INHALATION . . . . RESPIRATION THERAPY . . . GAS ANESTHESIA

 




 

 

Qinlumhia @nihmiity
60112132 of .1311? eitiane’ ant! Surgeons

630 WEST l68T’.‘ STREET, NEW YORK
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSIOLOGY

October 23, 1934

Professor Robert Gesell
Department of Physiology
Ann Arbor

Michigan

Dear Dr; Gesell:

This will introduce to you Mr. William 3

H. stephenson who is interested in a device for applying
artificial respiration to patients. This device is to
be submitted to the Council on Physical Therapy and
Mr. Stephenson desires to have it examined by a com~
petent physiologist with a View to getting his opinion
as to safety,effiaqy, etc. Although interested I am
unable to take this work at present and I have Suggested
that he present the matter to you.

i i
With cordial regards, I am.

Faithfully yqprs.

 

Ho B. Williams

 

 




Q

HUMANE SOCIETY or WASHTENAW COUNTY
April 1, 195A to' March 31, 1955

To the Voting Members of the Humane Society of Washtenaw County:

. Five years have passed since the Humane Society of Ann Arbor
changed its name to the Humane Society of Washtenaw County at the sug~
gestion of the generous donor of the new shelter, the Matthaei Foun~
dation. Since that time the Society's good influence has extended
greatly. .It now takes charge of the homeless dogs in Washtenaw County,
and especial emphas1s has been placed this year on improving conditions
for dogs in Willow Village where greater responsibility on the part of
owners is being urged. The township of Ypsilanti required that dogs in
Willow Village be confined to their owners premises for a three~month
period, and the Society is removing homeless animals to the shelter
where they may be placed in new homes, or, if in an advanced stage of
disease, have an end.put to their suffering.

- It has been possible to extend help to animals outside of
Washtenaw County through the efforts of Herbert Gay, Shelter Manager,
who has assisted humane societies in both Monroe and Adrian in improv~
ing and expanding their work this year. In the livestock protection
field, cooperation with the Michigan Humane Society in Detroit now
makes it possible to force truckers heading for that city to put up
partitions between different species and ages of animals in accordance
with the Detroit ordinance. This prevents the bruising and accidental
trampling of the smaller, weaker animals which occurs so often in
unpartitioned loads. It is regrettable that there is no state law
prohibiting such loads.

The following report gives in considerable detail the various
activities of the Society during the past year. The Board of Directors
is deeply grateful for the help of every member and hopes that each one
will continue, (1) to support the Society and its aims, (2) to report
all cases of cruelty observed, and (3) to encourage others to interest
themselves in the prevention of cruelty to animals.

Officers and.Members g: the Board 9; Directors

At the annual meeting of the Society, May 18, 1954, two of
the four directors whose terms expired, Edward H. Kraus, andIihmsinanwy
Lloyd, were re~elected. Sue Johe was elected to fill the vacancy caused
by the resignation of Frederick Nimke which was accepted with regret
as was also that of Arthur E. wood who no longer lives in Washtenaw
County. Frederick Blicke was subsequently appointed by the Board to
replace Mr. Wood, which appointment must be confirmed at the annual
meeting. The present board of directors with expiration dates of their
terms is noted below:

Terms expire 1955

Fanni Kaufmann, Daniel G. Quirk, Christine Stevens, Loren Campbell

Terms expire 1956
Lu Handy, Hildred.Hatthaei, Atwood McAndrew, Jr., Benjamin Wheeler
Terms expire 1957 '
Edward H. Kraus, Myfanwy Lleyd, Sue Johe, Frederick Blicke

The present officers are as follows: Edward H. Kraus, President
Atwood Hchndrew, Jr., Vice4Pres.
Christine Stevens, Secretary
Benjamin Wheeler, Treasurer

«At the Shelter: Herbert Gay, Manager;-Edith.Harshall, Office Manager.
Membership

. Many dog owners and others who were not members of the Society
were invited to enroll last December. The descriptive literature and
invitations to join were prepared under the direction of Miss Fanni
Kaufmann, chairman, hiss Hyfanwy Lloyd, Atwood HcAndrew, Jr., Daniel
G. Quirk, Sue Johe, and.Hrs. Roger Stevens. The committee was greatly

 




a g l

helped in addressing and mailing by a number of volunteers and the

Society is indebted to Mr. W. W. Snyder for his generous contribution
of much of the printed material.

An appealing puppy and kitten from the shelter were shown
on the cover of the leaflet which carried Christmas greetings and
urged kindness and humaneness towards all living things throughout
the year. An accompanying letter gave a brief resume of the humane
work carried out by the Society. As a result of this mailing, the

membership increased as follows:
1251—54 12514-55

Associate members ($1.00 anually) lg 35
Voting members ($3.00 anuallY) 20 330
Contributing members ($25.00 annually) 26 24
Life members ($100.00) 53 55

Many more members are wanted and needed.
Shelter_gctivities

The large amount of work carried out by the small staff at
the shelter can be judged to some extent from the statistics on the
cases handled which are given below. But only an examination of the
careful records kept on each individual case could give a clear idea
of the amount of suffering relieved, cruelty prevented or stopped when
brought to the Society‘s attention, and the amount of happiness created
when animals are adopted into homes or lost pets are found by anxious
owners through the agency of the shelter.

Host members are acquainted with those responsible for this
work. Kr. Herbert Gay, Shelter Manager, and.Mrs. W. V} Marshall, Office
hanager, both of whom have completed their sixth year of firsturate
animal protective work with the Humane Society of washtenaw County, and
Mr. John Davis, Shelter Assistant, who has now completed his second
year with the Society in a kind and conscientious manner. Participation
in Social Security and a pension plan was discussed and is being inaug~
urated for these staff members. Mr. Harold Davis, with his wife and
children, occupy the Humane Society residence near the shelter. He is
going a fine job with part—time work in the shelter and the answering
of emergency Calls after the regular hours.

Statistics on cases handled are as follows:

12§3~54

4082

2990
1512

Dogs received. . . . . .
Cats received. . . . . .
Dogs placed in new homes
Cats placed in new homes
Dogs restored to owners.
Cats restored to owners.

0 Q 0 O C ‘

t)"

omoocoot

h

H

81‘

.0000000
ado-loco.

Calls made to bring animals t
Boarding days for dogs . .
Boarding days for cats . . . . . . .
Complaints of cruelty or neglect investigat d.

O

. ‘ .' Q Q U 0 O O‘ C

O
C
D
C
Q
C C O I
e

In addition to the investigation of complaints of cruelty,
the Shelter Manager makes spot checks on livestock trucking through the
county, correcting abuses wherever he finds them. Eighty~one trucks
were stopped during the year for mixed loads. Riding stables, kennels,
fairs, and livestock auctions also are visited and cruelty to or neglect
of many animals brought to an end.

The prevention of suffering among the dog and cat population
depends to a considerable extent upon preventing the birth of unwanted
puppies and kittens, and the Society appeals to all members to assist
it by urging the owners of female pets to have them spayed.

HUmane Education

 

A new series of leaflets: Care 9: thg Dog,0are g: thg Cat,
Care 9: Birds, Care 2; fish, and Care *f Small Animals were made avail~g
able this year to schools throughout was tenaw County. As usual, these
publications were supplied without charge by the Society which continues

 

 

 

 




~3...

to send subscriptions to the monthly magazines, Our Dumb Animals, and
the National Humane Review, to every school in the county. The monthly
humane paper with graded reading for elementary school is also dis—
tributed as are posters for the annual Be Kind to Animals Week in May.
Children visiting the shelter with their parents or with one of the
many bus loads of school children from all over the county, which make
guided tours, receive copies of You and Your Dog or Kittens and Cats to
take home with them. These shelter visits play an important part is

the humane education program carried on by teachers throughout the
coun y.

 

The Department of Speech of the University of Michigan has
been responsibde for presenting the Humane Society Pet Program for the
past two years. The Society is greatly indebted to the Department and
to Station WPAG which provides a fifteen minute spot each week without
charge. The program is supervised by Professor Edgar E. Willis and
directed by members of the Speech Department. Reading the Humane
Society scripts are the following students: Donald Streat, Virginia
Robertson, Donald Wylie, Paul Herlinger, Cari Wysocki, Mary Poore,
Nancy Renkenbergsr, Jerry Hockstad, and Gordon Mars, two of whom are
heard each Saturday at 10:45 A.M. They have done a splendid job of
impressing humane ideas and bringing practical advice on animal care to

18 eners.

Open House

The success of the Open House held in 1953 led to a repetition
of the event in October, 1954. The sizeable number of visitors and the
enthusiasm they displayed in touring the shelter and learning about the
work of the Society in helping and protecting animals were most encour—
aging. The event was arranged by a committee with Myfanwy Lloyd and
Daniel G. Quirk as co~chairmen.

RummageASales

The rummage sale held in November at the Masonic Temple with
Mrs. Roy Lindsay of Plymouth and.Mrs. Herbert Johe as co~chairmen
cleared nearly three hundred dollars and the Society is grateful to
the several members and friends of the Society who helped.make it a
success. A date has already been reserved for another such sale this
fall, Saturday, October gg, at the Masonic Temple, with Mrs. Herbert
Johe as chairman. We hope you will check this date on your calendar
and save all saleable merchandise that you may be wanting to be rid of
for this big event. The office at the shelter is glad to receive calls
at any time if you have rummage available and would like to have it
stored until the sale.

Publicity

The Directors are very grateful to the Ann Arbor News, the
Ypsilanti Press, and the other papers through the county for the reports
published on the animals at the shelter and on the activities of the
Humane Society. Some particularly fine photographs of "The Dog of the
Konth" taken at the shelter have been featured in the Ann Arbor News
and it was one of these that was reproduced on the cover of the Ohristma
greeting and invitation to membership sent out by the Society this year.
The Ypsilanti Press is always interested in receiving any special news
items concerning activities at the shelter and.many pets have gone into
homes as a result of this publicity. Stations WPAG andeH V have very
kindly made spot announcements on the occasion of the Open'House and Be
Kind to Animals Week.

A clipping from Greensville, South Carolina was received Which
described the shelter of the Humane Society of Washtenaw County as being
one of the two best in the country. Architects for the new shelter in
Greensville flew here last year to examine the building.

Heetin s

In addition to the regular monthly meetings held by the Board
of Directors at the office of the President or at the shelter, repre—
sentatives of the Society have attended.Mierest Conferences of Humane
Societies in Cleveland, May 1954, and in Chicago, February 1955, the
annual convention of the American Humane Association in Atlanta,
Georgia, and a Michigan Federation of Humans Societies in Lanaing.

 




_ 4 1
Audit

Following is a statement of receipts and expenditures,
April 1, 1954 to March 31,1955 as given in the annual audit prepared
by Icerman, Johnson, and Hoffman:

Receipts: 4
4 ,4 .

, disposal and serv1ees.
General receipts $9 9g? 23
7, 6 6 66
600 00

-1a,£

Washtenaw County

Ypsilanti

Ann Arbor $18, 613 89
Calendar sales 71 25
Dues and memberships - 2,000.50
Gifts * 161. 00
Interest on investments 150. 00
Refunds 296. 63
Rummage sale 290. 00
U. 8. bonds ~ series G ~ matured 2,000.00
Transfer from savings account ~ Ann Arbor

Federal Savings and Loan Association $52.05

 

TQtE—ll receiptﬁ. o O o o O o u o b o 0 i ' ‘ $23,635035

Disbursements:

-Animalrm§i%aéem 4 $ 1 353 10
Auditing

Bank charges '§%:‘ ﬁg

Building maintenance and repairs 60 2
Calendars 32. 00
Cleaning supplies 176, 46
Dues and conventions 70. 69
Fuel oil 1 ,025. 63
Insurance 3 46:57
Legal 212. 85
Miscellaneous 200, 02
Office supplies, postage and.printing 786 75
Operation of the gas chamber 127. 82
Refunds 16, oo
Salaries and wages 12, 261. 01
Schedule bond . 20. 00
Telephone 366:22
Transfer to A. A. Federal Savings & Loan Assoc. 2,000 00
Uniforms 333. 70
Utilities 580. 26
Vehicle operation 1, 661. 29
Yard and road.maintenance 11 67.60

 

TOtaJ. diSburserlentS‘o 1. o u o I $22,318.13

 

Summary:

1255151 1254~55

Receipts. . . . . . . . . . $17, 810. 45

Disbursements . . . . . . 18,217.20 . . .

Gash balance, Apr. l, 53 . 1,313. #3 Apr. 1,

Cash balance, Mar. 31, . 6.68 Mar. 31, ‘55. .

Any member desiring to review the audit may do so upon
request to the treasurer.

 




~5...

Finances

As the audit shows, the work of protecting animals in
Washtenaw County is supported by: (1) contributions and membership
fees; (2) contracts with washtenaw County and cities of Ann Arbor
and Ypsilanti; (3) adoption fees for animals placed in new homes;
4) by rummage and calendar sales. The most careful economy is prao~
ticed throughout the whole of the Society’s operation without, how—
ever, sacrificing the Welfare of the animals involved.

Charitable contributions and membership fees are most
important sources of income for every humane society, for such gifts
and memberships mean moral support as well as financial aid, a combi»
nation which is absolutely essential to the advancement of humane
work. The generous help of members and friends will hasten the time
when cruelty, callousness and neglect no longer present the current
multiplicity of distressing problems in respect to helpless animals.

Beguests

By remembering the Humane Society in their wills, humani—
tarians have helped to assure the future of animal protective work
in Washtenaw County, and it is hoped that all friends of animals will
make such provision. In making a bequest, it is recommended that the
following form be used: "I give and bequeath the sum of
dollars to the Humane Society of Washtenaw County, a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan, to
apply to the uses of said corporation."

M

Annual live et i132;

The annual meeting of the Society will be held on Tuesday,
May 24, 1955, at 7:15 P.1-i. at. the shelter. You are most cordially
invited to be present.

Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Board of Directors,

Edward H. Kraus, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

 




    

     

         

 

 

H U M A N E S 0 C I E T Y O F d A S H T E N A W O O U N Tl?

 

   

April 1, 1955 to March 51, 1956

     
 
 

  

To the Voting Members of the Humane Society of Washtenaw County:

This year in addition to continuing the expansion of its
direct animal protective work at the shelter, the Society has
increased services provided to Washtenaw County'and has taken part
in a national anti~cruelty campaign.

 
   
      
  

 
 

At the request of the Board of Supervisors of Washtenaw
County, the Society has attached to its adoption forms two coupons
for vaccination and licensing of dogs adopted from the shelter.
Advance payment is made at the shelter, and the coupons are redeemed
by the County Treasurer and the veterinarians. The Society also
agreed, on an experimental basis, to take this year's dog census in
Willow Village, part of which is in Superior and part in Ypsilanti
Township. This arrangement was made at the suggestion of Supervisors
Emory Mulholland and Henry F. Hicks. The Society is reimbursed at
the rate of 20¢ per dog listed as provided by law. The work was
undertaken in the hope that it might prove useful in advancing the
humane treatment and protection of dogs.

 
   
         
       
       
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
    
   
  
 

The Society participated actively in the movement to obtain
use of humane methods of slaughter for food animals. Most people
are unaware of the fact that, although a number of practical, humane
methods of rendering animals insensible before shackling and bleeding
are available, the majority of packers do not use them. The facts
presented in the Society's leaflet "This Cruelty is Unnecessaryl"
have helped.tc arouse a demand for the needed reforms such as have
already been accomplished in most civiliZed.Western Europealnations.

In Washtenaw County we are fortunate to have more than one
slaughtering establishment where it is routine practice to shoot all
animals with a rifle or pistol before hoisting them and cutting their
throats. The Society is working actively to obtain changes in those
local plants where the cruel, old methods are still in effect.

In the following report, a summary of the Society’s work at
the shelter, in the field, and through humane education is given.
The support and interest of each memter and the continuing assistance
of each in the prevention of cruelty is needed and appreciated.

 

Officers and Members 2f the Board pf Directors

 

At the annual meeting of the Society, May 24, 1955, Loren
Campbell, Fanni Kaufmann, Daniel G. Quirk, and Christine Stevens were
re~elected for a term of three years and the appointment of Frederick
Blioke for a term of two years was confirmed. Following is a listing
of the names of directors of the Society with the expiration dates
of their terms:

Terms expire 1956
Lu Handy, Mildred.Matthaei, Atwood.McAndrew, Jr., Benjamin Wheeler

Terms expire 1957
Frederick Blicke, Sue Johe, Edward H. Kraus, Hyfanwy Lloyd

      
 

Terms expire 1958
Loren Campbell, Fanni Kaufmann, Daniel G. Quirk, Christine Stevens

      
 

The present officers are as follows: Edward H. Kraus, President
Atwood McAndrew, Jr., Vice~Pres.

Christine Stevens, Secretary

Benjamin Wheeler, Treasurer

      
     
   
  
  

Membership

 
 

The large quantity and high quality of animal protective work
being carried out by the Society is far from being adequately reflected
in the size of its membership. More members are needed, and all
friends of the Society are invited to suggest names of potential
members so that they may be asked if they would like to join. The
Society is proud of its record on renewals of membership for very few
drop out once they have been enrolled and learned about the Society's
work. Everyone who is opposed to cruelty should join.

        
     
        




_ 2 _
Membership statistics are at present as follows:

Associate members ($1.00 annually). . . 21
Voting members ($3.00 annually). . . . 286
Contributing members ($25.00 annually)- 30
Life members ($100.00). . . . - - . . . 57

Shelter Aptivities

. Every year the shelter, built in 1951 through the great gen—
eros1ty of the Matthaei Foundation, houses larger numbers of homeless
animals. Shelter work has very greatly reduced the deliberate abandon~
ment of unwanted animals (although this still occurs, a litter of
puppies frozen to death being the saddest of this year's cases). It
has also reduced the number of unwanted animals killed by inhumane
methods. But though the Society is very proud of the job it is doing
in offering a temporary refuge, a place from which many hundreds of
animals are placed in good new homes or restored to their owners, and
in offering a painless means of destruction for the Sick injured, and
aged, still the increase in numbers of animals received is not the ,
anitigatedly heartening sign which it would be if the Society were a
ousiness concern interested in increasing the volume of its activity.
-t is hoped that its educational work designed to develop greater
responsibility in the keeping of pets will eventually result in a
decrease in the number of animals needing the help and protection of
the shelter. When the majority of owners have learned to take good
ears of their animals, to keep them for life, and to prevent the
birth of unwanted puppies and kittens, such a decrease can be expected.
The pOpularity of the shelter with residents of W.shtenaw and neighbor—
ing counties is of great value in finding homes for homeless animals
and in providing opportunities for education through direct contact
with animal owners.

The staff at the shelter continues to do an excellent job of
helping animals in distress and offering assistance and guidance to
People of all ages who want to adopt an animal, find a lost pet, or
deal with any of a multiplicity of situations involving the welfare
of animals. A major change in the composition of the staff occurred
in January when, after seven years of service, Herbert Gay resigned to
take another position. The staff now consists of Edith Marshall,

John Davis, Harold Davis, and two new staff members, Thomas Kind and
Marie Kind. Mr. and.Mrs. Kind are highly qualified for the work,

Mr. Kind having studied veterinary medicine prior to his employment.
for seven years at the London Zoo and.Mrs. Kind, who holds degrees in
agriculture and zoology, having carried out projects for the Univer~
sities Federation for Animal Welfare in England. Mr. Harold Dav1s
continues to take care of emergency calls which come to the shelter
after regular hours. He and his family occupy the house at the
shelter. Every effort is being made by him and Mr. Kind to answer all
urgent calls and complaints as promptly as possible.

Following are statistics on cases handled at the sheltermduring

the past year:
1254—55 1255~56

4705 #831

~ 54 3371

. . 1389 1678

. . 625 543

. . . 177 181
1

4 so
1186
22,744

Dogs received. . . . . . .
Oats received. . . . . . .
Dogs placed in new homes .
Oats placed in new homes .
Dogs restored to owners. .
Oats restored to owners. . .
Animals brought to shelter by
Boarding days for dogs. . . .
Boarding days for cats. . . . .

01
000.0...

I . C 0 022,74
. . . . .15,227 13,715

In addition, the services have included the investigation of
complaints having to do with the mistreatment of animals, inspection
Of shipment of livestock, inspection of kennels, and the rescue of
injured animals.

ciety truck. itsz

Humane.§ducatign

The Society obtained the loan for one peek of the humane wild
life film, “Gimpr and Her Woodland Orphans" nhich was shown in a
number of elementary schools during this period. Many charmingly
illustrated "thank you" notes were received from children who saw and
loved it. Ginger is a motherly Cooker Spaniel who helps her owner,
an ardent conservationist, to rescue and care for a variety ofimild
creatures who have lost their mothers. The Socrety Circulated to all

 




 
   

  

-3...

schools in.the county a leaflet offering free copies of the MM—page,
illustrated manual, "First Aid and Care of Small Animals", by Ernest
P. walker of the National Zoological Park and Smithsonian Institution.
The manual is a publication of the Animal Welfare Institute which pro—
vides free copies to teachers. He gives information on the feeding
and rehabilitation of the different species of wild life which are
most commonly found in need of help.

       
 
   
        
    
 
  

  

The annual free subscriptions of humane magazines to all
schools in the county were continued as was the distribution to all
schools of posters for Be Kind to Animals Week. Literature distributed
at the shelter to persons adopting animals and to the groups of school
children who make guided tours include "You and Your Dog" and "Kittens
and Cats", published by the Society, and leaflets on the care of
different varieties of pets published by the American Humane Associ~~
ation. The expense of all educational materials is taken care of by

a contribution to the Society.

 
   
     
   
      
     

The year 1956 marks the third year in which the Department of
Speech of the University of hichigan has presented the Society's Pet
Program and the eighth year of the program‘s existence. Time is
donated.by radio station WPAG. The generous assistance of the Station
and the Speech Department are much appreciated in makin, the program
possible without cost. It is heard each Saturday at l:g5 P.M.

    
       
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
 

Open House

The third annual Open House was held at the shelter on Sep~
tember 25, 1955. It attracted many visitors both old and young and
has established itself as an event worthy of being held each year.
Thanks are due to Kiss Myfanwy Lloyd and.hr. Daniel G. Quirk for
organization and to the women members of the board for donating
cookies and assisting with the arrangements.

Rummage Sale and Calendar Sale

The annual rummage sale was held in October at the Hasonic
Temple with.hrs. Herbert Johe and.Mrs. Roy Lindsay of Plymouth again
- serving as comchairmen and cleared two hundred seventy~five dollars.
A date has already been reserved for another such sale this fall ~
Saturday, November 3, at the'nasonic Temple. Hrs. Johe will again act
as chairman and will be assisted by hrs. w. 0. Edtards. We hope you
will check this date on your calendar and save all salable merchan~
dise that you may be wanting to be rid of for this big event. The
office at the shelter is glad to receive calls at any time if you have
rummage available and would like to have it stored until the sale.

 

The sale of calendars which may be used as Christmas cards
brought in a profit of over twenty—five dollars this year. The
Society is especially indebted to hiss Priscilla Stockwell for the
distribution of these calendars.

Publicity

 

A very fine editorial which appeared in the Ann Arbor News of
March 10, 1956, called for compulsory humane slaughter and noted the
Society’s work to obtain necessary legislation. The News continues
as a regular feature the Dog of the Konth photographs which are ,
extremely valuable in enabling the Society to find good homes for
homeless animals. The Ypsilanti Press, hanchester Enterprise, Dexter
Leader, Saline Observer, Chelsea Standard, and.Milan Leader have pub~
lished very helpful articles about the Society‘s humanework. In
addition to the Weekly Pet Program, WPAG donated time for two fifteen
minute transcribed prOgrams on humane slaughter by Gordon Owen, the.
well known Salt Lake City, Utah radio commentator, Both radio stations
‘WHRV and WPAG, gave numerous spot announcements during the year.

 
 
     
       

heetings

On September 28, 1955, the president of the Society, Edward H.
Kraus, presented the first Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare _
Institute to Robert C. Bay, the young veterinarian whose outstanding
humane work in behalf of laboratory animals won him the award. The
Humane Society of Washtenaw County was very well represented at the
ceremony which took place at the hichigan State University in East
Lansing in association with the annual meeting of the American Insti~
tute of Biological Science.

 
   
      
      
   




- a _

Representatives of the Society attended meetings of the Hichi~
gan Federation of Humans Societies, the Hidwwest Conference of Humane
Societies, and the American Humane Association during the past year.
Regular monthly meetings of the Board of Directors were held in the
office of the president or at the shelter.

Audit

Following is the statement of receipts and expenditures, Avril l,
1955 to Harch 31, 1956, as given in the annual audit prepared by
Icerman, Johnson and Hoffman. Any member desiring to review the audit
may do so on request to the treasurer.

Receipts:

Animal disposal and services:
General receipts $10,238.22
Washtenan County 8,499.96
Ypsilanti 300.00 '
Ann Arbor 600.00 $1 ,
Calendar sales
Dues and memberships
Gifts .
Interest on investments
License and rabies vaccination coupons
Refunds
Rummage sale
Transfer from savings account~State Savings Bank 1,000.00
Transfer from savings account-Ann Arbor Federal
Savings and Loan Association ' ' 170.83

TOtal IGCeiDtS a o o c o o o A o o 0 o o 0 o o 6 $25,422.74

 

Disbursements:

Animal welfare $ 1,390.36

Auditing 60.00

Calendars

Dues and conventions

Fuel oil

Insurance

Loan a Hackbarth on Barber St. property

Miscellaneous

Office expense, postage and printing

Operation of gas chamber

Plant maintenance and repairs

Redemption of license coupons ~ Washtenan 00. Treas. 100.00

Redemption of rabies coupons 13.00

Refunds 20.00

Salaries and wages

Telephone

Taxes and licenses

Transfer to A. A. Federal Savings & Loan

Uniforms 406.55

Utilities 634.78

Vehicle Operation 1 9 2.26
Total disbursements $24,395.98

 

 

Summary:

1954—56

Receipts. . . . . . . . “ ~ . .
DiSbursementS o A a o 9 Q o o 0_

Cash balance, Apr.l, 195%.. Apr. 1
Cash balance, Mar.31, 1955. Mar.31,'

$2 ,422,74
223395.98

 




“5”
Finances

The Society's activities are limited by its income. An
increase in both educational work and anti—cruelty work is much
needed. Contributions to the Society are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and all donations, large or small, are most
welcome and are used with the most careful economy.

Bequests

Bequests for thebenefit of the Society are of great value
in assuring the continuance of its work in the future. Professor
Arthur S. Aiton, a good memter and friend of long standing, very
kindly remembered the Society in his will which, according to the
notification received, is now before the Probate Court. The Society
is also very grateful for the bequest of $2000 left the Society last
year by Louise P. Weinmann. Miss Weinmann was greatly interested
in the work of the Society during her lifetime. It is hoped that
others interested in preventing cruelty to animals will remember the
Society in their wills. The following form is suggested: "I give
and bequeath the sum of dollars to the Humane Society
of Washtenaw County, a corporation organized and existing under the
laws of the State of Hichigan, to apply to the uses of said corpor—

ation."

 

Annual Meeting

The annual meeting of the Society will be held on Tuesday,
May 22, 1956, at 7:115 P. u. a: the shelter.
invited to be present.

Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Board of Directors.

You are most cordially

Edward H. Kraus, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

 




The Ahuse oi Animals in. the {llassroom and
ilew it Can Be Avoided

Animal Welfare insﬁiufe', New; York

Dr. Chauncey D. Leake, Professor of
Pharmacology at Ohio State University,
recently wrote: ‘lt seems to me that it “is
wise to avoid getting our youngsters so en~
thused over biological sciences that they are
anxious to undertake extensive animal experi-
mentation without the background, the ex—
perience the judgment, or the 117isdom that is
necessary in handling animals appropriately
for complicated biological experimentation 1E1
other words, i thi.17 w 7e had better continue
to learn the hard way: there is plenty of hi—
ology to be gotten trom a study of7 unicellular
organisms that can be readily Obtained 1n any
high school laboratory, and handled and fol—
lowed with skill and convenience. V17 e are apt
to get into trouble using animals.”
Sensationalism in the teaching of high school
biology seems to us to be on the increase. No
doubt the maiority 01 our teachers avoid the
practices listed below, but there are numerous
cases of educators possibly unable to convey
the intellectual interest of their subject by
more conscientious means, encouraging chil-
dr 11 to make c1uel and pseudo— —scientinc ex-
periments paralleling whatever ﬁeld of research
is receiving popular publicity at the time.
l1ollow1ng are examples of the type of pain—
ml and uncreative experimentation to which
our organization is opposed. Pupils have been
taught to “make routine transfer of cancer
cells peritioneally in mice,’ and a. machine
has been devised to 1orce mice to inhale high
concentrations of tobacco smoke and pepper
in connection with th national enquiry,
“Does smoking cause lung cancer.” Objections
might also be raised to certain experiments by
which “the effects of radiation on rats are
determined” especially since the students con—~
cerned have not yet mastered the anatomy
and physiology of the rats they are destr Moving
Again, at the height or the Sputnik publicity
children were taught o detonate home made
rockets containing mice... and here while the
making 01 the roCket may have familiarly :ed
the children with some principles of me—
chanics, the inclusion of the mouse, the thing
that gave the project its glamor, had no sort

of justification As the New Y 01719 Herald
wazme commented: “Let youngsters ﬁre oﬂii
tiny Sputniks if they can. But Why imprison
a mouse or any living creature in one, it no
he owle edge is to be yielded by its death?
Killing .. mouse, suddenly, may be necessary
to prudent ho 1113e keeping Subjecting one need-
lessly to 3,284 feet or . . terror shows little
reverence for life If increased interest in sci—
ence is to lead merely to greater callousness,
the world will not have moved ahead ”

To criticize such. misplaced attempts as the
liig l1 school research proiects described above

not to suggest that all animal life be excluded
110111 the biology classroom. The judicious
introduction of some forms of life can be a
valuable teaching asset Students will take a
keener interest in the forms they are studying
if the v have an opportunity to observe them
in life. They can be led to develop responsibil—
ity for animals kept in the classroom; pros—
pective scientists must be made to realize that
a normal healthy condition in the research
an imal is the sme qua 120172 of an authentic
biological experiment and that it is a pat of
the scientists job to see that his animals are
well kept. All students may be trained to
make careful and precise observations of the
physical form and of the habit or movements
of the species they are shown. The importance
of a well developed technique of observation
in biology can hardly be oveerestin1ated.l\/la11y
important discoveries were not the result of
hypothesis and experiment but were instead
chance observations by tiained observers. Sir
Alexander Flemings discovery of penicillin
is a recent xample. lnteiest, responsibility,
and a technique 01 observation may be culti—
vated in students with the help of animal life
kept in the classroom.1 The major problem
is the selection of suitable forms.

tudents may be interested to read some works
on animal behavior by such distinguished observers
as :inbergen, Lorenz Eckstein von Frisch, Fabre
3. Harley, and others. The Animal Welfare In-
stitute is preparing a pamphlet which will include a
select bibliography of the writi -ngs on behaV 101' most

useful to the high school student.

Reprinted from THE AMERICAN BIOLCGY TEACHER, Vol. 22, No. 8, November, 1960

 




480 .

Many teachers and scientists agree that
some important principles of biology can be
taught successfully with the help of live uni—
cellular organisms such as protozoa, yeast, and
bacteria. Colonies of ants, or, in rural areas,
of bees, may be especially housed for class ob--
servation. The study of genetics is well illus-
trated by breeding the fruit—ﬂy, Drosopbila.
Higher forms, such as reptiles, mammals, and
birds, may be kept for general observation;
however, the dissection of dead specimens,
supplemented with models and ﬁlmstrips,
should sufﬁce to give the student a working
knowledge of their anatomy and physiology.
Crude experiments involving surgery or stress
are not the training students need. Respect
for living things, sound judgment, reliability,
and a technique of observation will go further
towards making competent biologists than will
the kind of emotions aroused by crude surgery
in supposed imitation of a fantasy hero.

Students who are induced to perform pain—
ful experiments on the higher animals should
ﬁrst be made aware of two points:

1. What they are doing is not advancing
scientiﬁc knowledge or serving any al—
truistic purpose.

2. The enjoyment of tumor transplantation
or other simple surgery is not angintel—
lectual pleasure; the child who takes
pleasure in such practices is likely to be
indulging the darkest and most destruc—
tive side of his personality.

Teachers and students alike ought to give
careful thought to these two points so as to
be in a position to take moral responsibility
for their acts if there is anything hazy in their
realization of the above two points.

If animals are to be kept in the classroom,
it is of the ﬁrst importance that the teacher
should enforce a serious and knowledgeable
attitude toward their care. Most students will
be interested in constructing and outﬁtting
suitable quarters for classroom animals; some
will be willing to undertake care and feeding.
It is essential that the routine of cleaning,
watering, and feeding be inﬂexibly carried
out. Some teachers have found that the best
method is to assign two volunteers to each
cage of animals for an entire semester. The
daily ration of food and water for each cage
and the routine days for cleaning should be
posted, so that in case of absence substitutes
will know where to take over. Sudden changes

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

 

November, 1960

in diet may cause colic and intestinal disturb—
ances. Care must be taken that a triple ration
of food and water is always provided on Fri-
days. Vacation periods present a major prob-
lem: in our experience, scbool janitors are
never reliable animal caretakers. It will prob-
ably be necessary for the animals to board
with the teacher or with a really responsible
student. The teacher who decides to keep
animals in the classroom must take the ultimate
responsibility for the care and feeding of the
animals at all times.

Two indispensible pieces of equipment for
keeping rodents are the water bottle and the
food hopper. The hopper prevents animals
from scattering and wasting their food; the
water bottle ensures that the drinking supply
will not be spilt and the animals left thirsty
during an unsupervised period. A water bottle
is simple to make. Through the cork of the
bottle goes a piece of glass tubing with an in—
ternal diameter of 3 / 8”, and thick walls. The
outer end of the tube has been rotated in a
Bunsen ﬂame until the opening is between
1/16” and 1/8” in diameter and bent at an
angle of not more than 45 0 out of straight, so
that, when the bottle is hung inverted in the
cage, the spout curves downwards and out-
wards. If the cork is airtight, the water will
not run out when the bottle is ﬁlled but will
always be available at the tip of the tube. The
table gives measurements for some common
laboratory animals:

Capacity of bottle

Mouse Rat Guinea Pig Rabbit

4oz. 1 pt. 1 pt. 1 pt.
(for 1 rabbit)
Distance of spout from

cage ﬂoor for adults:

for young
11/2” 6” 4” 6/,
same 3" 2” 3”

All caged animals require fresb water at all
times, and food sbould also be available to
tbem on a twenty-four bour basis.

If the cages are placed in an area receiving
direct sunlight at any time of day, a sunshade
must be provided by attaching brown paper
to the sides and top of about one-third of the
cage area. Animals must never be left in a
draft, but adequate provision for ventilation
must be made, especially over the weekend.

It is also the teacher’s responsibility to kill
diseased or unwanted animals by a humane

 

 




 

Vol. 22, No. 8

method. The best killing method is the chlor—
oform chamber. A chloroform chamber is a
box containing a wire netting shelf raised
above the ﬂoor level, with a perforated lid. A
piece of cotton wool saturated with chloro-
form is placed on the ﬂoor of the box, and the
animal is placed on the wire netting shelf
above. The animal must never come intodirect
contact with liquid chloroform which ir—
ritates the mucous membranes. Since the ob-
ject is to anesthetize, not to asphyxiate, an
adequate amount of outside air must enter the
box until the animal is unconscious. The animal
may be observed through a hole in the lid;
if it struggles, more air should be admitted;
when it becomes unconscious, all outside air
should be cutoff. Never remove the animal
from the chlorofOrm box or dispose 'of the
body until it is stiff and cold.

Mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, frogs, and
ﬁsh are some of the animals most likely to be
kept in the classroom. The teacher should
familiarize all students with the basic require-
ments of the chosen species and demonstrate
the correct method of handling it. Some notes
on the basic care and handling of the common
species follow: These notes outline minimum
standards; students may be encouraged to raise
these standards further. For example, they
may wish to design roomier cages with more
elaborate exercise facilities or nest boxes than
are described below; experimenting in obtain-
ing the optimum housing arrangement or diet
will train students to make close observations
of the animals’ condition.

Mice: Four mice or a breeding pair may be
kept in a cage 6” x 12”, but a larger cage will
provide more space for activity and more op-
portunity for interesting observations. Mice
can be kept in a wire mesh cage with a wire
mesh ﬂoor and a movable tray beneath, which
should be lined with newspaper and cleaned
daily. However, recent scientiﬁc studies
show that a solid nonporous cage ﬂoor, cov-
ered with peat moss or shavings, provides an
optimum environment for mice, and that mice
thus housed are healthier and more content
than mice kept on wire mesh. The whole cage
should be washed in soap and hot water
weekly. If there is a possibility of infection,
disinfectant should be added to the water. The
cage must be thoroughly dried before the
mice are replaced. Mice are sensitive to sud-
den changes of temperature and thrive at tem-

 

THE ABUSE 0F ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOIVI\\ . 481
l

peratures of 680-720. Suckling mice require a
temperature of 760-780. Mice are by nature
nocturnal and should be provided with a dark
corner in the form of a nesting box. It should
contain bedding material such as shredded
paper, woodshavings, or cotton wool. A con-
venient nesting box is a small metal cup, in-
verted, with an entrance cut in one side at the
rim. An exercise device such as a Ferris wheel
is a good idea. Mice are omnivorous and will
thrive on a diet of meat, ﬁsh, cheese and vege-
table scraps, supplemented with bread, oats,
sunﬂower seed, hemp, or millet. It is also pos—
sible to feed them on a diet of commercial
mouse pellets if these are supplemented with
greens, yeast, and any of the above mentioned
foods. An exclusive diet of commercial mouse
pellets may result in malnutrition and canni—
balism. Mice are usually docile; a mouse may
be picked up by placing the ﬁngers under the
animal and gently easing it into the palm of
the hand. Mice may also be lifted, not carried,
by the base of the tail if excitable. Gentle
stroking may help to calm them.

Rats: A rat cage should be similar in design to
a mouse cage but considerably larger. Seven
hundred square inches of ﬂoor space is the
recommended minimum for eight rats. Rats
require a nesting box. Cleaning the rat cage is
an identical operation to cleaning the mouse
cage. Rats are susceptible to respiratory dis-
eases, and a constant temperature of 65040017.,
low humidity, and good ventilation are essen-
tial to good health. Rats may be fed on a diet
of commercial rat pellets, supplemented with
grain, greens, milk, meat, ﬁsh, and vegetables.
While rats are intelligent and make excellent
pets, an angry or frightened rat will inﬂict a
painful bite. It is advisable to handle rats
gently, to avoid sudden movements, and to
give the rat time to realize it is going to be
handled before picking it up. The best way
to pick up a rat is to place the hand palm
down over the animal’s back, with the thumb
and foreﬁnger around the neck, and the re-
maining ﬁngers around the animal’s body to
take the weight. Rats are playful and apprec1—
ate exercise facilities such as Ferris wheels.
Nonbreeding rats and mice should be separ-
ated from breeding specimens.

Guinea pigs: Guinea pigs may be kept in pens
whose ﬂoors are covered in a 2” layer of saw-
dust or peat moss followed by a layer of straw.
An adult guinea pig requires one square foot or




482 ,l

floor space but will exercise better in a larger
area. If guinea pigs are kept in wire mesh bot-
tom cages, the mesh must be 543”, otherwise
the animals will suffer leg injuries. In a wire
mesh cage bedding material such as peat moss
or softwood sawdust must be provided.
Guinea pigs may be fed on hay, which must
be kept in a rack to prevent soiling, commer-
cial guinea pig pellets, and fresh greens. If a
liberal supply of grass, clover, alfalfa, cabbage,
kale, chicory, lettuce, or sprouted grain is not
given, guinea pigs develop a Vitamin C de-
ﬁciency which is often fatal. Guinea pigs
thrive in a cool, dry climate, 650-79017. They
should be handled gently, avoiding pressure
on the abdomen. Pregnant females should not
be handled. To pick up a guinea pig, place one
hand well up across the shoulders, with the
thumb behind a front leg, and the ﬁngers well
forward on the opposite side. Work ﬁngers
gently under the hindquarters to take the
weight.

Rabbits: Rabbits require a roomy cage. One
square foot of floor space for every pound of
rabbit is a general rule. Rabbits rest extended
with their feet stretched out behind them, and
any cage which prevents them from doing
this should be allocated to a smaller species.
The cage floor should be covered with 2” of
softwood sawdust or peat moss. Rabbits pre-
fer a cool temperature, 600—65013. Strong drafts
or strong sunlight are to be avoided. Rabbits
may be fed on commercial rabbit pellets or on
a grain mixture of whole oats, wheat, and bar-
ley. They also require a good quantity of
alfalfa or clover hay, and green, and root
vegetables daily. If rabbits are put out to grass,
or given an excessive quantity of green food,
they should ﬁrst be given a meal of grain or
pellets, to prevent them from taking a surfeit
of green food and developing colic. Never
lift a rabbit by the ears without supporting
its hindquarters with the other hand. It may
be preferable to grasp the rabbit by the scruff
of the neck while supporting the hindquar-
ters as above. Rabbits are inclined to jump and
kick when lifted; they must be treated gently
but ﬁrmly. Rabbits not gently handled may
scratch. Adult rabbits should be housed singly,
as they often ﬁght.

Amphibians: Frogs may be kept in large tanks
or concrete pools. It is essential to provide a
resting place outside of the water in the form
of a raft or raised plank. The top of the en-

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

N ovember, I 960

closure must be screened to prevent escape.
The water must be changed daily, unless a
system of running water is used. Frogs kept
in foul water die. A diet of maggots, meal-
worms, slugs, earthworms, blowfl larvae, or
meat is suitable and should be placed out of
the water. Methods of raising these larvae and
worms are described in the Animal Welfare
Institute publication, “First Aid and Care of
Small Animals,” by Ernest P. Walker. Toads
should have a similar diet. They thrive in a
large cage whose floor is covered with moist
earth or gravel. A rockery of stones or bricks,
under which the toads can retire, is recom-
mended. Frogs and toads may be killed in a
chloroform chamber.

F isb: An aquarium may be planted with pond—
weed which will increase the oxygen content
of the water and stocked with a few snails
which feed on decaying vegetable matter and
help to keep the aquarium clean. Further
cleaning may be carried out with a siphon.
Sudden changes in water or water temperature
are harmful to ﬁsh, and all the water in an
aquarium should never be changed at once.
Chlorine is harmful to ﬁsh, and tap water is to
be avoided if pondwater is available. If tap
water must be used, it should stand in shal—
low pans for several days before use. When
water weed will grow in water, it is generally
safe for ﬁsh. It is essential that the aquarium
should contain adequate water and water
surface. One gallon of water per inch of ﬁsh
is a general rule. For six one—inch ﬁsh, an
aquarium 16” x 9” x 9” is adequate. This
provides 5 gallons of water and 144 square
inches of air surface. Overfeeding and over—
crowding are the most frequent causes of
death to aquarium ﬁsh, according to the
New York Aquarium. Goldﬁsh may be fed
chopped raw meat, or angleworms, and a good
quality of commercial ﬁsh food. In feeding
tropical ﬁsh it is especially important to pro—
vide a variety of different foods so the ﬁsh
can select what they prefer, because the die-
tary needs of the different species are not well
established. Tropical ﬁsh aquaria should be
maintained at a constant temperature of 750F.,
and a cover provided to prevent the ﬁsh from
jumping out. In order to avoid overfeeding,
remove any uneaten food ten minutes after the
ﬁsh have been offered it.

The Animal Welfare Institute would be
glad to furnish a list of books and pamphlets

 




Vol. 22 NO. 2

relating to animal care and teaching with ani-
mals in schocls, Especially recommended are
the pamphlet, “First Aid and Care of Small
Animals,” free on. request by a teacher; an
English publication, “Animals in Schools,” by
.l. U Volrath of the Universities Federation

L o

A
\

THE ABUSE or ANIMALS IN THE, CLA53R00M \

483

for Animal Welfare; and “Humane Biology
Projects,” now available from the Animal
Welfare institute. Address enquiries to: The
Animal W elfare institute, 22 East 17th Street,
New," Yorlr 3, New York.

 

 

 




THE SECOND EDITION

GREAIZ Y ENLARGED
of

THE UFAW HANDBOOK

on the care and management

of

LABORATORY ANIMALS

Joint Editors :

ALASTAIR N. WORDEN, M.A. (Cantab.), B.SC. (Lend), M.R.C.V.S., A.R.I.C.
Director of the Nutritional Research Unit, Huntingdon; some time Milford Professor
and Director of Research in Animal Health, University College of Wales. Aberystwyth.
' W. LANE-PETIER, M.A., M.B., B.CHIR. (Cantab.).

Director of the Laboratory Animals Bureau of the Medical Research Council;
Hon. Executive Secretary, International Committee on Laboratory Animals.

Foreword by

SIR HAROLD HIMSWORTH, K.C.B., MDS, F.R.C.P., QJ—LR, Finest
Secretary, the Medical Research Council

 

Published b y

UFM

(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)
7a Lamb’s Conduit Passage, London, W.C.l.

 




 

91"!"

10.
ll.

12.
l3.
14.
16.

CONTENTS

PART I -— GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

THE LEGAL PROTECTION OF LABORATORY ANIMALS: C. W. Hume, Secretary-General
of UFAW.
THE ANIMAL HOUSE: W. Lane-Fetter, Director, Laboratory Animals Bureau. .
ANIMAL HOUSE EQUIPMENT: W. Lane-Potter; appendix on SHARPENING OF HYPO-
DERMIC NEEDLES by F. Jean Vinter, Technical Secretary of UFAW.
PRINCIPLES OF HYGIENE AND EPIZOO’I‘IOLOGY: H. J. Parish, Wellcome Research—Labora-
tories; appendix on USE OF THE AUTOCLAVE by F. A. Tottem and H. J. Parish, Wellcome
Research Laboratories. . . ‘
PESTS OF THE ANIMAL HOUSE: The late P. A. Buxton and J. R. Busvme, London School ol
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine; appendix on INSECT ICIDAL RESINS AND AEROSOLS by
W. Lane-Fetter, Laboratory Animals Bureau. ‘ _
BREEDING METHODS, I: GENETIC CONSIDERATIONS. D. S. Falconer. Institute of Animal
Genetics, Edinburgh. . . .
BREEDING METHODS, II: ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS. T. C. Carter, Radiobiological
Research Unit, Harwell. . .
THE NUTRITION OF LABORATORY ANIMALS: Alastair N. Worden, Nutritional Research
Unit, Huntingdon; appendix on STANDARDIZATION OF DIETS by Louis PlouVier, Elevages
Sorolabo, Paris. _
HANDLING LABORATORY ANIMALS: D. J. Short, National Institute for Medical Research,
London.
STOCK-RECORDING SYSTEMS: T. C. Carter, Radiobiological Research Unit, Harwell. _
ANAESTHESIA AND EUTHANASIA: Phyllis G. Croft, UFAW Research Fellow; appendix on
[ISOnNG-ACTING ANAESTHETICS AND ANALGESICS by W. M. S. Russell, UFAW Research
e ow.
THE CHOICE OF THE EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL: R. E. Rewell, Women's Hospital, Liverpool.
THE NEED FOR NEW LABORATORY ANIMALS: Victor Schwentker, West Foundation,
Brant Lake, U.S.A. . . .
THE ANIMAL TECHNICIAN: A. E. Mundy, Hon. Secretary, Animal Technicrans Assocration.
THE LABORATORY ANIMALS BUREAU: W. Lane-Better (Director). '
THE LABORATORY ANIMAL BUSINESS IN THE U.S.A.: C. N. Wentworth Cummrng, Car-
worth Farms. Inc.. and the late F. G. Carnoehan.

PART II

A. RODENTS AND LAGOMORPHS

THE GUINEA-PIG: J. Stuart Paterson, Ministry of Supply, Porton.
THE MOUSE: A. A. Tuﬂ’ery, Microbiological Research Establishment, Porton; appendix on
HOLDING FOR VACCINATION OR TAIL-INJECTION, by F. C. J. Roe, London Hospital
Medical School; and an appendix on RINGWORMS by C. J. La Touche, School of- Medicine. Leeds.
THE WILD HOUSE-MOUSE: Ursula Philip, King’s College, Newcastle.
THE WOOD-MOUSE: V. P. W. Lowe, Bureau of Animal Population, Oxford.
THE HARVEST MOUSE: H. N. Southern, Bureau of Animal Population, Oxford.
THE DEER MOUSE: Lee R. Dice, University of Michigan.
THE EDIBLE (FAT) DORMOUSE: Harry V. Thompson, Infestation Control Division, Tolworth.
THE JUMPING MOUSE: 25. THE RED-BACKED MOUSE. Victor Schwentker, West Founda-
tion, Brant Lake, U.S.A.
THE BANK VOLE: D. M. Steven, University College of the West Indies.
THE FIELD VOLE AND ORKNEY VOLE: Dennis Chitty, Bureau of Animal Population, Oxford.
THE ROOT VOLE: Ian Linn, University of Exeter.
GERBILS (DESERT RATS): J. Newsorne, Bilharzia Research Unit, St. Albans.
THE GOLDEN HAMSTER: Edward Hindlc, formerly Regius Professor of Zoology, Glasgow: and
Hulda Magalhaes, Bucknell University, U.S.A.
THE CHINESE (STRIPED) HAMSTER: Victor Schwentker, West Foundation, Brant Lake, U.S.A.
THE NORWAY RAT: G. Porter, Laboratory Animals Bureau; appendix on DETECTION OF
MATING by Margaret I. Chalmer, Rowett Research Institute; and appendix on WILD BROWN
RATS by Harry V. Thompson, Infestation Control Division, Tolworth.
THE .BLACK RAT: The late Phyllis Kelway; revised by Harry V. Thompson, Infestation Control
assesses

E RAT: J. S. Steward, ex Institute of Animal Patholo , Cambrid e.
THE COTTON RAT: D. J. Short, National Institute for Medical Resgzrch, Mill Iglill: appendix
on THE SNOWBALL RAT by Victor Schwentker, West Foundation, Brant Lake, U.S.A.
BI]: vi??? RAT: 37. THE KANGAROO RAT: Victor Schwentker, West Foundation, Brant

THE NORTH AMERICAN PORCUP E: Albert F. Shadle, University of Buffalo, U.S.A.

. , THE RABBIT: J. C. Sandford, British abbit Council; W. King Wilson, Harper Adams Agricultural

College; a; R. O. Muir, Poultry Laboratory, Lasswade.




40.

45.

46.
47.
48.

51.
52.

53.
54.

55.
56.

57.

58.

59.

61.

69.
71.

73.
74.

7 .

U!

B. INSECTNORES

THE EUROPEAN HEDGEHOG: The late I. 1'. Edwards, Foot-and-Mouthlﬁsease Research
Station, Pirbright. _ . ,

SHREWS: Peter Crowcroft, British Museum (Natural History).

THE SHORT-TAILED SHREW: Victor Schwentker, West Foundation, Brant Lake, U.S.A.

THE EUROPEAN WA'I‘ER SHREW: Konrad Lorenz, Hans Planck Institute, Austria.

THE EASTERN PRAIRIE MOLE: W. L. Henning, Bryan University, Dayton, Tennessee.

C. CARNIVORES

THE CAT: Patricia P. Scott, Royal Free Hospital Selim)! of Mcajzginc; A, (larvaiho Da Silva,
University of Sao Paulo; & Marny Lloyd Jacob, Royal Pm: Hcmpitni School of Medieine; with a
section on OUT DOOR HOUSING by W. L. Weipers, Director of veterinary Education, Glasgow;
and an appendix on RINGWORM by C. 3. La Touche, Universsty of Leeds.

THE DOG: I. Stuart Paterson, Ministry of Supply, Porton; with an appendix on RENGWORM
by C. J. La Touche, University of Leeds.

THE FOX; 49. THE MINK; SO. THE MARTEN. Charles F. Bassett, Director, For Animal
Experiment Station, Ithaca, USA. _

THE FERRET; I. W. Rowlands, Institute of Animal Physiology, Cambridge.

D. UNGULATES

THE SHEEP: A. T. Phillipson & W. Thomson, Rowett Research Institute.

THE GOAT: Nora M. Duncombe, N.I.R.D., Shintield; with an appendix on .z‘a't‘iAliSTHESIA by
A. T. Cowie, N.I.R.D., Silinﬁeld.

THE HORSE: William C. Miller, Animal Health Trust, Newmarket.

THE PIG: K. L. Robinson & W. E. Coey, Queen's University, Belfast; and THE BABY FIG: D. E.
Tribe, School of Agriculture, University of Melbourne.

E. PRNATES

MONKEYS: P. Eckstein & S. Zuckerman, University of Birmingham.
THE VERVE’I‘ MONKEY: C. P. Luck, University College, London.

F. MARSUPIALS
THE QUOKKA: G. B. Sharman, University of Adelaide.

G. BIRDS

THE EOWL: R. E. Gordon & C. Horton-Smith, Roughton Poultry Research Station; with an

zppegdlét on THE CHICK EMBRYO by W. I. B. Beveridge, Department of Animal Patholoﬂ.
am r1 3e.-

THE PIGEON: David L. Hughes, University of Liverpool, Kathleen J. Sparrow 5L Diana P. Boles.

A.R.C. Research Station, Compton, edited by J. Stuart Paterson. ,

THE CANARY: I. w. Corran & s. H. Edgar, Reckitt & Colman, Norwich: with a who" 0”

DISEASES by C. A. McGoughey, University of- Ceylon.

OTHER PASSERINE SPECIES: G. E. Dunnett & R. A. Hinde, Ornithological Field Station.
Cambridge.

H. REPTILES

REPTILES. 63. AMPHIBIA 1, GENERAL: The late J. W. Lester, Zoological Gardens, tendon.
gmflgem nu, THE SPANISH SALAMANDER: J. L. Hamerton, Radiobiologleal Research

9 arwe .
AMPHIBIA III, MALE TOADS AND F ROGS: Rhoda M. Allison, Royal Inﬁrmary, Huddersﬁeld.
ER’IPHIBIA IV, Eienopus laevis: E. Elkan.
EXESHWATER FISH: F. T. K. Pentelow, Ministry of Agriculture. .

TIC FRESHWATER FISHES: T. A. Stuart, Brown Trout Research Laboratory, Pitlochz'y.

I. INVERTEBRATES

gggsgues Argo BLOWFLIES: E. A. Parkin & A. A. Green, 13.3.13. Slough.

THE BRIéIT-FLY : James H. Sang, A.R.C. Poultry Research Centre, Edinburgh. '_ _

Z . EDING Oh Locusta migratoria; 72. INSECTS FOR FEEDING: Fiona McFerran,
OACilﬁgicalI Socrety of London.

CULTg'tRREORMs; William J. McL. Guild, University of Edinburgh. _

J, SOME NME figODS FOR Paramecium: G. H. Beale, University of Edinburgh:

Raccoon OTEE UN SPECIES NOT DEALT WITH IN DETAIL IN THE ISANDBQGK

Ham H5, hmmlnss, Mongolian Jerbil or Clawed Jird, Suslick, Chinchiila, Grey squats {Brow

ﬂies ,Deerero musk shrew, Vampire bat, Common opossum, Marsupial mice, Game birds, 133““

v sen Locust,'Lymmzsa truncamia, leeches, Marine animais.

 




SOME EXTRACTS FROM REVIEWS OF THE FIRST EDITION

 

This book is a worthy product of civilization . . . should be on the shelf in every animal
laboratory where there is anyone who can read English, and should be: translated for thosa
who cannot. Though written in English, it is cosmopolitan in the sources from which it
is compiled. It is essential that the status of laboratory animals and of humans feeling and
the excellence of scientiﬁc results are both served. The UFAW Handbook should play
a very important part in furthering such aims. British Science News.

This book should undoubtedly be in the possession of all research workers in veterinary,
medical and allied biological sciences and should be a standard reference book in all
institutes where experimental animals are kept. There is brought together for the ﬁrst
time a mass of information on the care of laboratory animals previously restricted to the
knowledge of those institutes where particular methods or animals are in use.

The Veterinary Record.

This book is a mine of information, and will be indispensable to all engaged in
research where animals are employed. ” Nature.

In addition to presenting in meticulous detail all necessary information regarding
pr0per care of laboratory animals, this volume contains a general chaptar . . . on law and
practice in relation to the rights of these important partners in medical research. The
discussion contains historical notes and a presentation of basic principles that should be
required reading for every laboratory worker, from director to bottle washer. . 9

Journal of the American Medical Annotation.

This is an outstanding book, and one of which British medicine and retarinary science
may be very proud . . . The passages . . . on the susceptbilitycf animals! to pain should be
read by all who undertake animal experiments. This annously awaited volume fulﬁls
every expectation; all laboratory 'workers will be grateful for it «- and all animals should
be grateful too. The Lancet.

Must ﬁnd a place on the shelves of everyone in Great Britain whose work involves the
use of laboratory animals. Discovery.

This is by all odds the most comprehensive and thorough discussion: of the problems
associated with maintaining colonies of experimental animals, and ShOUld be read, studied,

and used as a reference book by every veterinarian who uses or supervises the use of

ex rimental laborato animals. . . . .
PC ry Journal of the American Veterinary M edica'l Assocmtion.

The book is of articular interest to the laboratory technician, as it enables him to
maintain and handle Ianimals eﬂiciently and humanely. It can be conﬁdently “recommentéed
as a book that should form an essential volume not only in every laboratory library, at

for the laboratory research worker. r
35 a personal book Of reference Bulletin of T he Institute of Medical Laboratory feciznology.

' ' ' ' , ‘ d be in the
The handbook contains a wealth of practical information, and a copy shoal . ‘
library of every laboratory that maintains an animal colony. Medical Journal of Australia.

' ’ ‘ ' . T he subject matter
This book is an enc clo aedia on laboratory animal management . .

has been prepared by exgertspon the care and management of the diﬂ‘ererithspccigs of animals
used in laboratories. It will deﬁnitely rank as a reference book on i e su Jec . . .

book should be read by everyone using animals for research figméigmy Bulletin.

 

 

 

 




 

 

ORDER FORM ‘

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New York

Please Send me ........................ copies of the second edition of

The UFAW Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals

I'enclose (cheque) (postal order) for $5 ............
$9.80 per copy, no charge for postage

Nam

 

(BLOCK CAPITALS)

ADDRESS I .
(BLOCK CAPITALS)

 

 

 




