influence.

,We scatter seeds with careless hands

And deem we ne‘er shall see them more.

Yet for a thousand years their fruit appears,

rIn weeds that mar the land—

(§)r heathfnl—store. 7

The deeds we do, thewords we speak,

Into. the'air they seem to ﬂeet

Vi e count them past, \~

'But they shall last;

In the dread judgment they and we shall meet.
———1?e’v. John Keble.

 

Whoever restores a young bird to the limb,

Ur gladdeus the lives of dumb creatures in need,

Is one of’Christ‘s helpers, whatever his creed,
Clasps hands with “the angel that comforted Him.”
But whoever ﬁnds pleasure in adding one hurt
7 To an innocent life, be it insect or dove,

,[s somehow in league with those who found sport‘
[u nailing the hands of the World‘s Greatest Love.
011, how dare we ask a just God to bestow

The mercy we grant not to creatures below !

 

The Cry of the Suffering Creatures.

’0, that they had pity, the men we serve 30 truly !
Q, that they had kindness, the men we love so well I
They call us dull and stupid, and Vicious and unruly,
And they think not we can suffer but only would rebel.

' They brand us and they beat us; they spill our blood like water,
We die that they might live, ten thousand in a day!
H, that they had mercy, for in their dens of slaughter
They afﬂict us and affright us and do far worse than slay.

if they would only love us, would learn our strength. and w *akness,
If only withour sujfe-rlngs their hearts could sympathize,

Then they would know what truth is, what patience is and meekuess
And read our hearts devotion in the softness of our eyes.

\

If they would but teach their children to treat the subject creature:
a As humble friends, as servants who strive their hearts to win,

. Then they would see how joyous, how kindly are our natures, 7

, Andi-a sneoND day of Eden would on the earth begin. , [

 




To get animals from burning barns without trouble, tie a bag or piece of cloth over cows
eyes and a saddle or piece of harness on a horse. ‘ ’

f‘Nogcru-el man can enter the Kingdom of Heaven.”

"?._J,’3“It.is a cruel act to go away and leave. a cat without anyone to care for her. These deserted,
\ rvlyemeless cats not only suffer themselves, but they cause human beings to suffer by hearng their
ibitiful cries. It is our duty to take good care of our dogs and cats for their sake, as well. as
V for that of our i'ieighbors.

Very often dogs and cats do not have proper care. They should have fresh water where
they can always get it, should be fed regularly twice a day, and should be kept in the house at
night. A cat that is half starved loses its keenness of scent and is not so likely to be able
to catch mice. 7

One great secret of keeping horsechattle, dogs and cats in good condition is to see that
they have plenty of clean, pure water to drink. Dogs, especially, should have water always,
within reach in the house or in their kennels.

As the World advances in civilization the time will surely come when it will not be
considered “sport" to go out and shoot something. NOTHING WILL THEN an CONsiDmun)
'- sro-n'r 'l‘HA'l‘ Mmss sUiuuanING on DICA'l‘I-I TO ANY l'.lVIN(3}- CHEA'rL-nm

BLIanns. Few personstliiink of the suﬁ‘eriug Caused to horses from the use of blinders.

The horses eyes are placed at the side of the head, but the blinders shut off the side view and

. compel him to look ahead, hence they cause a constant strain, which veterinary surgeons tell us
tends, to. produce weakness of vision and blindness. .

CA’I‘TLE New) SHADE IN Ho'r WEATHER. If the pasture has no shade trees, erect sup-
ports, across which place straw or grass, grass sods, or boards nailed on posts; thus making
shade in which animals can rest from the heat of the sun.

r "The Germans take care of their wild birds during the winter. Shelters from snow are
built in public parks and private gardens, and plentifully supplied with food of various kinds.

' In theespring many of the birds build nests in these shelters.

Our cities are poorly provided with drinking places which small animals can reach. There
areJiot enough troughs for horses, and fewer for dogs. No doubt ﬁts are soi'netimes caused
by extreme thirst. -

An English "writer, who is despondent over the cruelties of the world, says: “Our very
pastime is murder, and our ‘sports‘ involve some other creature's wounds and agony.”

When a child- is speaking or acting kindly, Whether to a playmate or to an animal, he is
developing and strengthening the tender and noble side of his character; when thoughtless or
cruel, the lower and brutal elements of his nature are developed.

A ; You are doing rigl'it‘whe'n you treat every living creatUre as you Would Wish. to be treated.
g: . If you drive a horse, or own a horse, think how you would like to be treated if: you were that
' -‘ horse. Treat-your dog and cat as you wouid like to be treated if you were that dog or cat.

The world would be in a happier condition if legislators spent half as much time and labor
‘ to rmavnu'r crime ‘as they do to PUNISH it—Lydia Maria. Child.

‘ that \v‘e‘sozo in the home and the school, we reap in the nation.

jThey cannot recon‘ipense ydu, but Ye 5-]le be recompensed in the: resurrection of the
tét."’—‘—~Bible. ' ' ‘ ‘

l driver should be this horse’s best friend andshould study his comfort.

 




