The World Veterinary Medical Association, the American Veterinary Medical Association
and animal protective organizations worldwide agree...

The European Union has banned their use as have 63 other countries. But n__o_t
the U. S. or Canada. Instead they’ re telling lies about these notoriously cruel traps
and threatening a World Trade Organization challenge because they want to continue
selling their leghold-trapped furs to the E .U .

U
7‘
C
3
0.
0
é
0.
4‘
l
n
.>
2!
r11
8‘
‘
g
E
3;
D

 

Opponents of the fur import ban say Opponents of the fur import ban claim:
they need to use leghold traps to protect ”traps with teeth have not been used in the US. or
endangered species. Canada for decades."

The wolt (Canis lupus) is on the US. endangered Traps with teeth are legal in much of the US.
species list. Far from being protected, this wolt pup The US. government itself set the huge leghold trap
was so horribly maimed by a leghold trap, his trapped with teeth that caught this wolt pup.
leg had to be amputated to save his lite.

E .U . REGULATION 3254/91 IS THE SINGLE GREATEST LAW
TO END THE INTENSE PAIN AND SUFFERING INFLICTED ON
MILLIONS OF ANIMALS BY LEGH OLD TRAPS EVERY YEAR.

 

 

'\

\’i .
2‘.

RV .

i‘N
-.

Opponents of the fur import ban say
padded leghold traps ”improve animal welfare" by
”preventing abrasions” and ”lacerations.”

The leghold traps that caught both of this pitiful
dog’s back paws were padded, ”but crushed all her
toes. She was chewing otl her paw to try to break tree
from the traps. She was crying as she did it from the
pain," according to the Woman who found Cindy in the
woods. Sadly, the brave little dog had to be
euthanized because of the appalling iniuries the

padded leghold trap had inflicted on her.

 

For more information, please phone the Animal Welfare Institute, free of charge, at 800-263-4661,
or write to: AWI, PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007, USA. Fax: 202-338—947 8. E-mail: awi@an.imalwelfare.com.

 




 

Alternatives that Don’t Harm Destroy Animals

Frog Dissection
Alternatives:

Human internal

anatomy from

 

SOMSO FROG MODEL

Study Living Things:
Projects That Don’t Hurt Animals

Thousands of educationally sound biology
projects can be done without resorting to

 

NE E N

Dissection of chicken wings and slaughter

x-rays, movies of
stomach after
barium meal,
pyelograms of
kidney, imaging
of the heart.
CAT scans

Frog dissection
videos

Take—apart frog

 

 

 

 

models
Student-made models of stomach, etc
Student—made skeleton of whole fish from

supermarket

house material

Living things are marvelous.

 

harming or killing vertebrate animals.

 

 

Study plants, fungi, protozoa, worms,
snails, insects, and other invertebrates

Study human physiology and
psychology

Observe behavior of domestic pets,
animals on free range farms, in the wild
or at zoos

Study normal functions such as :

. communication

. learning processes

. activity cycles

. reproduction

. genetics

- special senses

. growth

. metabolism

. nerve reflexes

. interrelationship of organisms

Study them,

but never harm them, in your biology class or elsewhere.

For more information, write: Animal Welfare Institute P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 




m
g.
3
t
5"
2
H
N
%
LL
_J
3‘”
.J
<
E
2
<I:

 




Haw MOM} Cdjs 40 70V Know >

DO YOU know Cue.
ma +539. stairs?

 

AHJ one mi“. }

Syofs.’
W
kc; ~
:8 ~ \.
._ ‘K.
ANJ One “3% sevcn'f‘oes? ‘\

 




A .1.) m wk

loves +0 ‘3
c

 

'Pe‘tf’eJ?

M
sax r’

’ \
(4&5; é/\\ A "J 6‘11 w‘y
\ Ci; 9) lauds +0 5 a

\‘ (I

[lat/9 leF+ .0. lane, ?Q

Eve
V)! cm} I.
ﬁgs 0. IHHC. b‘+ J
m evevr o‘HIQr cﬂlffﬂuf

 




B “at. eacL 0 me LOG. vaS a (ILKJ OU‘MQ (T

 

 

O NO ADMITTA/Kq
r5 RATS 0R

/Rﬂ>°‘ ¢
., ’ gym}

 

r—I

 

 

 




 

mooL $00k~

72

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ . mm“? /
a...“ , 3a
03.. “000 . .
m3. $913+?
5%: ﬁx
1.. hnﬂ}
H H _
Ek Mb” ﬂ

 

 




d
‘ s

o .

a e

5 d

Cd

 

1

63'

f
5‘3_/©\\
( \ -

\ RAJ
F, good

to
laces

‘P

a 63

 

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

W You have d mo‘f‘mr Cait' VOLVO

%
l
; ”w"
I \
I
/‘ .

you Can max: ,; ,

CXPCC+$ Kiﬁ'eln S

a nice, 50;?” box bed for her ‘

g: . ,» '—'
“:2".
42/ Q \t: g

In a. Civic? Corner? . +




Give. 7M8 md‘her Ca?” exfrq, {00$

r/‘y
)_ \
\3‘1'

\x _
(f g?

e

b” Clo na+ handle «H55 Ki‘ﬂ'Cns The);
("e +00 young +0 Play wi‘Ha. We}?
mO‘er MU?!“ +QKC Care of +‘lﬁem.

When Hue] am “ﬁne or ‘Hwee wcei’s 0/4

.: ‘ “-x. ‘0
I. ex .. 0,: 5
“can... 2‘; $f: :0.
, . ,‘. ' ‘91 I
3. Q ‘5 _." f. (3“ 3' 40'
" ‘5’ ~°' .‘cou' \ 1 ,'
__ o""o.." H

May Can beg/n +0 60.1” from a. 4:155, bUT

‘Hwy SL100” mo‘f‘ {Gave ‘HveIr D’M‘fher‘
before "H‘K’r (AVE Ea‘dt‘t wCQKS o lo’

 




ASK our vetert’nurian “Ken
£0 have er Mother cat a no’
Kittens s‘myed or neutered.

TAIS is the Who you Can
he}? stOf +Ae Pet foru/aﬁbn
CKWOSI'OI’L ‘thaf mean: tlvousanis
(3.71:1 {5100661.an of? Poor,

hUWgVy. homeless Kit’cems
dné cafs. Because there
areh‘x‘: enough 3a“! Aomes
to ya round. So BE KIA/D
dno’ have your FEES 537’60/
or neutered 5‘} your Veicrmamn,

 




Whit— Shoo‘c‘ you do if’ your (1“?
Chmbs d tree or 6. Pole am) is

r

I

I

[ afraj c! E?
I ,

i0
I Come ‘rﬁj.
D
O
N
N

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Pui’r “:3 favoro'fe fgoJ On' 4-419 ﬁTOUﬂJ

 

dnJ cg.“ +0 ham 5°?H1- Be Pah‘emt
He le Probably Come Joann when 11C 1
l
I” l: 1
0“" \ /
\ 'i ' /“\ l “
M ‘4‘ 9’91; 2.3:? VI, "‘ OKJ} #

fee ' S i’fé‘é‘w‘. c :5.-° ‘
‘5 ’33 M 3)} 1%)
C -— A - L- M- E— R

 

80+ If be 6108891": Call Your Humane 8:30.ch

 

/7@©§”" “5mg.”
é“ W 9 /
((\/’)) . ‘
here ‘t’OO-

You. ma): cicJon a, Cdf’ t

 




 

 

 

 

HOH Him “Kc, fhis.

Am’mu( Welfare /ns{'o'fdﬁ‘.
PO Box 3‘ 50

WhSAfng “ton, DC. 1.0 007

 




V
W
.W
V
«I
am
vla
V
a
3
.m;
m.
I.
a
I.
3

Y®Uﬂi MUG

Nu AND

 




 

Everybody Knows about Mar/5 IHHQ
”H
lamb kagijﬂwvb who Followed ’16?

W731 to schoo‘.

Most of us dont have Pet lambs but

9

636:3)“:

 $0\
M335”? 4’; ix»

\\ kw‘pg

lots 01‘ US have A035.

/ 1m}

 

 

‘4. -&-—4—-‘

 

 

,,/'

H 1
GEL

x".

to

 




l6 every bo)’ And am who has a dog

{or :1 Pet or who sees .

a dog on the Wad

 

KS: dP7\b:ings him

LL! 22)wa a long-

 




 

There would have to be a. class-room

(“6-32 {or (3095

as we” as {or b075 and Sirls.

 

 

 




 

 

But it '«5 better For Your dog to stay at

Home ﬂy and wait For

1r:::>L:::J‘
U You there,

 

When You come home he will be

(97; EQ/‘gf 33‘» very Bud

VI)“
0'

(5):) J’//// J
:4 h" 5 ( +0 see You.

#1

 




 

 

 

 

Then you can take. Hm ¥or a. wdlK

[4 Hay dab
/33\ E’iiL 3393
p3: 7 m K;
0% ,,,,, 9::

and {hen give him his Amncr.
(‘3)
,, 2 He neCdS 50me0n€
M
53 6L 1 +0 take care Of
, n

@4

him.

 

 




 

 

’9..-

H. .IS “Gt safe ‘FOY burn to wander
dl' ”d b)’ x...— ‘
ou (4%)); bf.

himself all ‘4 a C
day IonB- I /\ '

 




 

 

He shou‘d always WCAI’ his licenbt .3”

3nd ms vacdnaﬁon {ags « ,3
{istcned £0 his coHar..._)

Then, if he Should ever L!
a, Q

Be lost he Can be vetumed 1'0 You-

  




Where ShoulJ Your 609 be while you are.
in School? Here are 9006 Placebr

 

 

3 In Your house.

3

 

 

 

on a. Ieask attached +0 a stretched
w'we so he can move about freely-

FF

 

 

}’//’////’/I .-

 

\\

 

 

 

 




Always be SUFQ kc haS SheHcr from.

\ ' / 0 / , ~
\ / 4 /0 .
#he ’10:... Hue 1/47“ or Hug. i5
/ '\ , a
Sun rain Show
and fha’r he M15 Fresh water a
—

wi‘fhin YEdCh.

 




'f he shoals! bccme H], ‘the him

+0 3. veterin ariam. Ycur c193 smug
Le Vaccima'f'eé agaw‘ut raEres am}

Aistcmlaer

 

\ NotAiKa is saJJev- ‘LAnn a homeless
Fug but hundrecls o thousanzls,

of Puﬂnes are born tack year f"
whom THERE ARE /_\_I_9 Homes!
No Kfnol person should allowapet

“to breed. 003$ Show” be, spaycc‘
or neu‘l’ered.%ur veterinarian can

1:3” you (Johan.

 

 

+

 




If Your Famib’ should have, ’ro movc away and
Cc‘mnot {aka Your (509 th You, C3“
+he Humane Socieh’. Do no’f \eavfi' Y0ur do?
behind WH'hOU'r Cart. 8H"?! him +0 Hwe

Humane Socieh’ Shelfer Cor animals 'ms’read.

The Humane OHKCY WM “7 +0 “m! d 900d
home For him. Be Kim! #0 Your JOB.

 

3nd +0 all animals.

0 9 ‘ l
1, ;__..\‘ $5 5 ,1
1:1, ‘1‘ ll \/:‘ ~-,‘f,/ (\ﬁ} . 3
(I. I ‘ . l . . ' ' .
S?-q“°,k'f:?s: . ;\ \I 1" \l/fé‘ 5;; I. g, /

\
... O , - g 1*"
'0" ‘.O'I’Q

outnuhga

 

 

 

 




 

Strange D095

When you see a stmnse man do You
run UP and
Hi him on

the back?

 

HE WOUH not \Kﬂ 1+ H wOuH be bad n1dnn8r5

{ 909$ PreFCr 900d manners too.

 

 

 

 

 




 

, I,
.\/ .
I 3" . . ‘/ f
T "366+ [ﬂ/‘C’4o ‘E'
j/ “u m ya;
,4 i ll 4:;
F- (‘3‘ ‘ 9
o {i ‘g
ASK has / 7 as: $.72, fo in‘h'oduce
O ner a... z:
W 4 4uJ ,f)’ :15; \ 70 Ll .
\” >3,“ ~"‘C' /
‘1 , 3 ”<”” \V'
1 , \ ﬂ \

Anim at/ Welfare #5171qu

PO- Box 3L 5'0
Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

, A—foq'"\

 




 

 

A Letter From A Whale

Dear Friends,

Hello, I am a Blue whale. I am the biggest animal that has ever
lived on earth—bigger than even the dinosaurs! You probably have
never actually seen me or my smaller cousins, though, because we live
in the ocean. My great whale relatives include the Fin, Sperm, Sei,
Bowhead, Right, Humpback, Gray, Bryde’s and Minke whales. My
smallest relatives include the dolphins and porpoises. Because we live
in the ocean, maybe you think we are fish, but we’re not. We are
mammals just like you. And I guess that makes us distant relatives.

A long, long time ago—about 50 or 60 million years ago—my
earliest ancestors lived on land. During the following millions of
years, though, they moved to the ocean. Very, very slowly they
underwent changes that made life in the ocean easier. Theirfront
legs developed into ﬂippers. Their back legs disappeared. Their tails
developed flukes. All these changes made movement in the water
easier. A thick layer of blubber under their skin allowed them to live
in cold water. Since my ancestors were mammals and breathed air,

they also had to develop a way of staying underwater for long periods
at a time. Well, my ancestors adapted very well to their new

environment. We present-day whales are very comfortable living in
the ocean.

Unfortunately, you humans have never understood us whales
very well. Because we live in the ocean, and you live on land and don’t
have the chance to see us very often, I guess we have always seemed a
bit mysterious. Would you believe that you and I have a lot in
common? Well strange as it may seem, we do! We also happen to be
very intelligent creatures. My brain, for example, is one of the most
complex brains of all Earth’s animals. I am sure that we whales and

 

 

 

 

1

 

 




 

 

 

 

you humans have many secrets to learn from one another. We are
peaceful, playful, social animals. Often we roam the seas in groups or
pods—frolicking together, “talking” to one another, and sometimes
even singing together. My cousins, the Humpback whales, are famous
for their songs. Some of us have social and family structures similar
to your own, and more complex than those of many other animals.
For example, besides my mother, I have an “auntie” to take care of me
while I am groWing up. She is a sort of aunt and baby-sitter combined.
We are also sensitive, caring animals. A mother whale is very loving
and protective toward her baby calf. Individual whales may come to
the aid of another member of the pod during times of trouble. So,
you see, even though we don’t look at all alike, you and I aren’t so
different after all!

Your ancestors knew even less about us whales than you do.
They thought we were monsters from the deep and they hunted us
down with their boats and harpoons. They mercilessly killed us so
they could make smokeless candles, oil for their lamps, and other
products. During the 1800’s a certain folklore grew about us whales.
Back in those days, I guess men thought it was adventurous tojoin up
with a whaling crew and sail the high seas in search of the largest
animal on Earth. In the wOrds ofyou humans, those were the

“romantic” days of your long history of whale hunting. Believe me,
although we have tried to understand, we whales see nothing romantic

about it. Put yourself in our place, and. I’m sure you’ll agree.

Nineteenth-century whaling wasn’t romantic, but I’m willing to
admit that it may have been adventurous to some men. Catching a
whale in those days required a certain amount of skill. Once one of us
was sighted, there was no guarantee that the whalers could catch him.
Some of us could swim faster than their boats. Those of us who were
slower swimmers sometimes could avoid harpooners by staying
underwater for long periods at a time.

Well, enough background information about us. The real reason

 

 

2

 

 




 

______———

I am writing you is to bring your attention to a very important
matter—whale hunting today. Whaling today is a totally different
story from nineteenth century whaling. It is definitely not romantic.
It is not even adventurous. To put it simply, whaling today is barbaric
and cruel. Your modern ships equipped with sonar and explosive
harpoons take away any advantage we may have once had. As soon as

A we are located by sonar, we are as good as dead. There is no way we
can escape. As a result, I live in constant fear of being found by a
whaling ship. In half an hour, a factory ship can change me from a
happy, peaceful whale into a butchered mass of blood, meat and
bones. With your new space-age technology, you can kill as many of
us whales in one day as your ancestors did in one year. We blue
whales and our other cousins have been killed in such great numbers
that we are in danger of becoming extinct. It has taken us whales
millions upon millions ofyears to evolve into our present high form
of life. Yet, in a period of a few short decades, you humans have
threatened to reduce us to a mere memory.

Fortunately, not all countries are involved in whaling. The last
whaling nations are Japan and Norway. We do not understand why
these countries continue to hunt us down and slaughter us even
though the many nations who are seeking to protect us have
protested their actions. All whale products can already be replaced
with inexpensive commercial substitutes.

Please write to the Ambassadors ofJapan and Norway and tell
them that you wish their countries would stop killing us whales. You

can write to them at the following addresses:

 

 

JAPAN: NORWAY:

His Excellency Kunihiko Saito His Excellency Tom Eric Vraalsen
Ambassador of Japan Ambassador of Norway

2520 Massachusetts Ave., NW 2720 34th St. NW

Washington, DC. 20008 Washington, DC. 20008

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Believe us, we are happy being whales. We don’t want to be face
cream, fertilizer, or mink food. We are physically defenseless against
your technology. All we can do is extend to you our gestures of
friendship and our pleas for compassion. Maybe you have heard of my
cousin Nacho, the California Gray whale who made history by seeking
human companionship. My Gray cousins have, to a degree, overcome
their fear ofyou humans and are expressing their friendship. The
California Gray whales were protected from US whalers from 1971
until now. However, the Makah Tribe from Washington State, backed
by the (1.5. government, is seeking permission from the International
Whaling Commission to kill five Gray Whales a year. Be sure to write
to President Clinton begging not to support the killing of my
California cousins. His address is:

President Clinton
The White House
Washington, D.C. 20500

The final decision regarding the fate of us whales lies entirely in your
hands. Please show a little humanity. After all, isn’t “humanity”
supposed to be one ofyour outstanding “human” characteristics? The
similarity of the two words is no mere coincidence. Please help save

us!

Your friend,
A Blue Whale

f'x‘i
Animal Welfare Institute P.O. Box 3650 “4 Washington, D.C. 20007

 

 

4

 

 




 

 

Sf‘uitfm, after fuzz?!"
resme fk"::;m) a
it:Ematrims".

Six: was; the
(Mid {fitigiilii f (1)
{f1i.f§£3}i)]j3€i?€tf” fmn’:
Stiff; am}; in
two we‘tgm

THE PROBLEM:
RANDOM SOURCE DEALERS

Beloved pet dogs and cats are being
stolen. Rex, Sheba, Smokey and Isaac
are a few examples. Other companion
animals, such as Sosha, a dog who lived
in Washington State, are acquired
through “free to good home” advertise-
ments.

These animals end up in the hands
of random source dealers. The dealers
are anxious to get as many dogs and
cats as they can because they are able
to sell them to laboratories for hun-
dreds of dollars apiece. Then the ani-
mals are used for experimentation.

Rex, Sheba, Smokey and Isaac are
among the few lucky ones; they were
rescued in time. Sosha and countless
others are dead after being used for
research purposes. More than 100,000
dogs and cats are used for experimen-
tation each year in the United States.

 

 

HELP STOP PETS FROM BEING
TAKEN BY ANIMAL DEALERS
AND SOLD T0 LABORATORIES

 

For more information contact:
Society for Animal
Protective Legislation
PO Box 3719
Georgetown Station

Washington, DC 20007
Phone: (202) 337-2334
email: sapl@animalwelfare.com

 

 

Due to deplm‘aiﬂe (renditimzs, USDA ha (1 m (ﬁtmfixrraie
.9??? dogs; in (find i 1’3 ,9; tins; inland from a lic‘rensmt Chm 8

(.1(.>a.l:553r£:3 lndiazm.

PROTECT

OUR PETS

 

 

Rex was: one of ’l 8’ pets Sold for exmri:I‘zenfatitm.

thrtem dogs t!’l(§1£1di¥i§; Rex mare .resxgxmd by
their owners. Sadfy, the when; were used m
ie;3!.)<3:°ator}-‘ tests.

 

WRITE YOUR
REPRESENTATIVE
IN CONGRESS
NOW

 

 

 

 




 

HELP STOP PETS FROM BEING TAKEN BY ANIMAL DEALERS AND SOLD T0 LABORATORIES

 

THE FEDERAL ANIMAL
WELFARE ACT

The Animal Welfare Act (AWA) was
enacted in 1966 to protect animals
from inhumane treatment and address
the serious problems associated with
animal dealers, including pet theft.
Individuals who collect animals from
random sources and sell them to
research facilities are licensed by the
United States Department of Agricul—
ture (USDA) as Class B dealers.

The USDA is charged with enforcing
the AWA. The law includes the require-
ment that dogs and cats sold by dealers
to registered research facilities must be
provided with adequate care including:
appropriate housing, handling, nutri-
tion, water, veterinary care and shelter
from adverse weather conditions. It also
requires the dealer to keep complete
records on the origin and destination of
the animals, in addition to other vital
information.

 

 

 

  
  
 
 
  
 

Isaac, stolen from
his; frame] in
Minnesota, was
sold to a Class. 8
dealer who .soiri
him to a laboratory.

 

 

Random Source (Class B) Dealers:

0 have acquired stolen or fraudulently
obtained dogs and cats and sold them to
research facilities;

0 often launder animals by moving them
repeatedly across state lines, and by trans-
ferring them from dealer to dealer, making
it virtually impossible for pet owners to find
their missing animals;

0 routinely violate the law by failing to
maintain accurate records of the source of
dogs and cats they supply to research fa-
cilities; and

- typically fail to meet even the minimum
requirements of the Animal Welfare Act.

USDA licensed Class B dealers profit
from the sale of dogs and cats despite
appalling alleged violations of the Ani-
mal Welfare Act. Following are a few
examples: .

0 One former dealer was convicted of
selling more than 1,600 dogs and cats to
research facilities without proper records
identifying the sources of the animals.

0 Another dealer falsely reported ac-
quiring 357 dogs from a pound that USDA
investigators discovered was nonexistent.
This same dealer was found to have de—
stroyed dogs by gunshot in violation of
USDA regulations. She is still in business
selling dogs to research facilities.

0 Dogs and cats on another dealer’s
premises have been found suffering from
lameness, severe dehydration, emaciation,
bloody injuries, severe nasal and ocular
discharges, and respiratory problems. Al~
though USDA fined him for violating the
Animal Welfare Act, his license was not
revoked and he is still in business.

 

Smokey, a Saint
Bernard mix, was
listad by both dealer
arid msmm:ih facility
as; .23 bro W1”? {may-15ml .

 

 

There are only about 40 licensed Class
B dealers supplying dogs and cats for
research purposes. Many of these dealers
are under investigation or have cases pend-
ing against them by USDA for alleged
violations of the Animal Welfare Act. Pro-
hibiting random source (Class B) dealers
from selling dogs and cats to research
facilities is the only responsible thing to do.

One of the worst nightmares for anyone
who has companion animals is the fear
that the animal could be taken by a dealer
and sold to a laboratory. This is a real
threat and it must be stopped.

 

Please write your Congressional
Representative urging him or her to co-
sponsor the Pet Safety and Protection Act
(HR. 453) and to request hearings in the
House Agriculture Committee. Hon. Larry
Combest (R-TX) is Chairman of the full
Committee, and Hon. Richard Pombo (R—
CA) is Chairman of the Livestock, Dairy
and Poultry Subcommittee to which the
bill has been referred.

Representatives may be addressed at:
House Office Building,
Washington, DC 20515.

 

 

 

 

 




STEEL JAW TRAP MYTHS AND FACTS

Trappers claim that steel jaw traps do not inflict
painful injuries.

ALL

 

. FACT: Steel jaw traps sever tendons and break bones. George
'.Whitney, DVM: ”A fair analogy to a lower animal with its foot

'1 caught in a leghold trap is a human with a hand Slammed in a car

 

 1do or., In each case unless man or beast is released immediately
 excruc1at1ng pain is inflicted. " -

 

Trappers claim that any animal unintentionally
caught in a steel jaw trap can be released unharmed.

ingACT' Many pet dogs and cats require amputation 0 1 the paw or f; ,i
7711mb to prevent death from gangrene after being caught in Steel :M57
*” aps.a Dr.e Walter Loeb: Veterinary Pathologlst'.'1f the “WW“
.ssels are destroyed th e animal w11l get gangrene or 1f ...3‘
atlon is out  0£1 for as little as half an hour the potentials;
A-ja?9rene Is there.. 'v , ,.. .., _,.. . -, _,;

 

Trappers claim that because steel jaw traps are
checked at 24 hour intervals they do not cause injury.

 

 :FACT. {Each seCond in a steel jaw trap>is an.agon121ng One for the 
} §an1mal Ex~trapper, David Robinson: "My traps were checked tw1ce  ;
 [a day yet the steel jaw traps frequently had mink feet left in f_:;
{Lthem.£ The animals chewed off their own feet just above where they,_
rivwere caught in the traps. I also had severa1 red fox Chew at* ,:
~V'the1r 1998 and Spin in circles until all that was left of the leg .,
Vywas a twisted mess of ligaments, tendons and torn flesh ." Alaska,;;
ftM1chigan and North Dakota have no regulations on check1ng traps, ;,m
gfﬁand other states permit 24, 36, 48 or 72 hours between CheckSéis{ik7

 

Trappers claim that many animals are comfortably
asleep in the traps when they return.

 

.gﬁ “CT., Net 0 hysiolog1st Samuel Peaco’ck,' Jr. describing the
ggeffects on animals caught in steel jaw traps: ”...the pain remains :
,ggand produces maximal stress for long periOds of time including at
Vfﬁbest a State of helplessness or shock not to be con qued with ‘
’55sleep except by the most primitive observer." ,

 

 

Trappers claim that steel jaw traps are needed to
prevent the spread of rabies.

 

 

,-FACT:, A-National Research Council study Conducted on behalf of
gthe National Academy of Sciences recommended that "Persistent
. itrapping or poisoning campaigns as a means to rabies control
rgShOUIG be abolished. There is no evidence that these costly and
.'3 pol1tical1y attractive programs reduce either wildlife reservoirs  
lgvor rabies incidence." '

Trappers claim that trapper education can teach
humane methods of using steel jaw traps.

*w No humane technique can be taught because Stee l jaw traps,gg_
Vothed or untoothed, padded or unpadded, Slam closed and hold "; ;
**" tremendous force until the victim gnaws Off a limb to escape. }

{killed by the trapper.i These cou rses recrui t children, anng,
-wteac?fthem to trap and kill animals. ;.1 . '*~i

 

 

 

 

Trappers claim that steel jaw traps are the only
workable tool available.

7§}FACT._ workable alternatives available for trappers include cable— 1

§;fcoated leg snares and cage traps. 63 countries, including Austria,
éngermany, Sweden and the United Kingdom have banned use of steel

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.O. Box 3719, Washington, D.C. 20007

 




wﬁ

bﬁ
92%?
a U...
1v?
L Hwy...

.1,
3

 




THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police Force,
whose prompt reporting on suffering and neglect of
experimental animals led to improvements in their care.

For outstanding contributions Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
to Animal Welfare States Abe Fortas, author of the ﬁrst Federal bill to
require humane treatment of research animals.

In 1954, a gold replica of the Medal was presented to Dr. Albert
Schweitzer by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize.

Senator Warren G. Magnuson and Senator A.S. Mike
Monroney, who sponsored and fought for enactment of
the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, passed by a vote of

SCHWEITZER MEDALISTS

Dr. Robert Bay, veterinarian in charge of a colony of 500
experimental beagles, whose humane treatment of the
animals exemplifies the purpose for which the medal was
struck.*

Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.,
Director-General of the Universities Federation for Ani-
mal Welfare (U.F.A.W.), London, author, speaker, and
Founder of U.F.A.W., which pioneered in enlisting sci-
entific efforts for animal welfare.

Paul Kearney, author of "The Case for Humane Vivisec-
tion," the ﬁrst article in a national magazine calling for
humane treatment of research animals.

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, author of the ﬁrst humane
slaughter bill introduced in the Congress of the United
States and chief Senate sponsor of the Federal Humane
Slaughter Act, passed in 1958.

Congressman W.R. Poage, Chairman of the Livestock
and Feed Grains Subcommittee of the Committee on
Agriculture, United States House of Representatives,
and chief sponsor of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

Isobel Slater, M .B .E., Founder, and Chief Z.S . Fundikira,
President, Tanganyika Branch of the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, with 40,000 Afri-
can members. Hon. G. Mennen Williams presented the
medals in Africa. In New York, Hon. Adlai E. Stevenson
made the Schweitzer award address.

William H.A. Carr, author, reporter, and animal columnist.

Rachel Carson, author of Silent Spring.

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, whose discov-
ery and reporting on hundreds of Food and Drug Admin-
istration test do gs perpetually caged in a sub-basement
led to Congressional action providing comfortable ken-
nel runways for them.

 

85 to O in the United States Senate.

Dr. Francis Mulhem and Dr. Earl Jones of the US Depart-
ment of Agriculture, who prevented much suffering by
enforcement of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

Dr. John Quinn, State Veterinarian, Michigan Depart-
ment of Agriculture, who created the ﬁrst Animal Wel-
fare Committee of the United States Animal Health
Association.

Stan Wayman, Life photographer, whose "Concentra—
tion Camps for Dogs" and other picture stories brought
recognition to millions of people that animals need
protection.

Bob Cromie, whose hard hitting columns against cruel
experiments by school children resulted in Westinghouse
Science Fair prizes being changed to eliminate any
experimentation on captive vertebrates. The Medal was
presented by Senator Charles Percy.

Hon. Thomas Foley, who won enactment of the Animal
Welfare Act amendments of 1970 including the require-
ment for "appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic and
tranquilizing drugs" for experimental animals. The Medal
was presented by Senator Warren D. Magnuson.

Russell Train, Chairman, President's Council on Envi-
romnental Quality, who obtained unanimous adoption of
a resolution for a ten-year moratorium on commercial
whaling. The Medal was presented by S. Dillon Ripley,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Scott McVay who obtained the listing of all the great
whales on the US Endangered Species List. The Medal
was presented by Dr. Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist, Coun-
cil on Environmental Quality.

Dr. Lee Talbot, who successfully fought cruel poisons
spread on federal lands. The Medal was presented by
Hon. Russell Train, Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency.

Fay Brisk, who uncovered cruelty and theft by laboratory
dog dealers in the 19605 and initiated an animalport in

Washington, DC. to help animals transported by air.
The Medal was presented by Senator Lowell Weicker.

* Dr. Bay later resigned after being refused permission by new manage-
ment to end the suffering of a beagle with 24 fractures.

 




107‘)

l‘).\’()

I‘Mh

1 mu

Daniel Oduber, President of Costa Rica, for outstanding
achievement in creating major national parks in Costa
Rica where wildlife can ﬂourish. The presentation was
made by Senator Hubert Humphrey.

Yoko Muto, animal caretaker at Tokyo University, and
representative of the Japan Animal Welfare Society, for
her seven years of unstinting effort to allay the suffering
of thousands of dogs used for experimental surgery, by
gentle, personal nursing given each animal. The presen-
tation was made by Ambassador Mike Mansﬁeld.

Shri H.M. Patel, Chairman of the Indian Board for
Wildlife, for his contributions to wildlife conservation
and humane education as Indian Minister of Finance.

Roger and Katharine Payne, for leadership in the protec—
tion of whales, through observation of living Humpback
and Right whales. Medal presentation by Senator Paul
Tsongas.

Dr. Dallas Pratt for his landmark books, especially Alter-
natives to Pain in Experiments on Animals. Medal
presented by Senator Mark Hatﬁeld.

Senator Robert Dole whose leadership ensured enact-
ment of the 1985 Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals Act and the 1978 humane slaughter legislation.

Jane Goodall, for her leadership in ﬁghting for protection
of chimpanzees in the wild and in laboratories. Senator
John Melcher, author of the requirement for psychologi-
cal well—bein g of laboratory prim ates, presented the Medal.

Astrid Lindgren for achieving enactment of the world's
most comprehensive law against cruel factory farming
practices. Medal presentation by Congressman Charles
Bennett. Mrs. Lindgren is the author of many children's
stories which are classic, not only in Swedish literature,
but in translation throughout the world.

Allan Thornton and Dave Currey of the Environmental
Investigation Agency for achieving international protec-
tion for elephants and dolphins by revealing cruel and
illicit commercial killing. The Medal was presented by
Senator John Heinz.

Michael Tillman for thwarting the commercial Whalers,
reversing the Revised Management Procedure, and main-
taining the moratorium on whale killing for proﬁt at the
1993 International Whaling Commission meeting 1n
Kyoto. Medal presentation by Jason Robards.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650, Washington, D.C. 20007

 




 
 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hum-“QM- _.._.‘

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

‘

' ' ’ ' BaldEagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus)

er. Ournation ssymbol, the American . .
F ronthctgiiik of extinction when the ﬁrst Endangered Spec1es Act was. passed 1n 1967.
leizslnin t 6the rotection afforded by the Act, law enforcement, and public .educatlon thls
magnificgnt birfl has now rebounded to the point where in June 1994, all populatlons except the

threatened species list.
f rred from the endangered to the . .
extreme SOUthweStem were trans 6 Photo by Don Pﬁtzer / US Fish and Wildlife Service.

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Washington DC

 

Back cover: More than 50,000 Grizzly Bears ( Ursus arctos) once roamed the lower 48
states, but now only Alaska sustains a robust population. The Grizzly's precipitous decline was
slowed when the bears were listed as a threatened species outside of Alaska in 1975.

Photo by Len Rue Jr.
’_____l

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Endangered Species Act an Economic and Medical Asset

US legislation protecting wildlife and the environment is the finest in the world. It is important that
our nation maintain this leadership of which every American can be justifiably proud. In 1973,
Congress enacted a comprehensive, model Endangered Species Act (ESA). This legislation has been

extremely effective in saving wildlife and plant species in danger of extinction.

Non-consumptive Use of Wildlife—A Fiscal Boon

The economic benefits of preserving
species and their environments are
numerous. In 1991, whalewatching
in the US brought an estimated $37.5
million in direct revenue while an-
other $155.5 million was earned by
associated businesses (W DCS 1991).
In Southern New England alone, tour-
ists pay more than $21 million each

year to visit whales in their natural

 

environment (Hoyt 1994). Hump-

. . Whalewatching, one example of the non-consumptive use of wildlife,
back, F111, and Mlnke Whales fre- earns millions of dollars for both the east and west coasts.

quent these waters, as well as the occasional Orca and Pilot Whale. One might even be fortunate

enough to catch a glimpse of the highly endangered North Atlantic Right Whale.

The California Gray Whale, now removed from the endangered species list, is the star of the West
Coast’s whalewatching industry. Commercial whalewatching vessels also serve as platforms for
educational outreach and scientific research. The Endangered Species Act was key to protecting the

whales that now support an industry pouring millions into our coastal economies.

Agriculture Dependent on Wild Plants & Animals

American agriculture's debt to wild plants is estimated at $1 billion per year (Myers 1983). All of

our food comes from species of plants and animals that were once wild. Cultivated plant species

 

 




 

 

become prey to diseases, fungus or insect attack. When Southern comleaf blight attacked cr0ps in

1970 losses totalled almost $1 billion (Fenyvesi 1995). The disease was stopped when an old,

resistant corn species was found and bred into a new hybrid (Fenyvesi 1995). Currently, botanists

are collecting seeds of wild potatoes in an attempt to prevent a variant of the fungus that caused the

Irish potato famine in the 1840s from ruining crops in the US. Food losses to insects in the US amount

to at least $5 billion per year, and hundreds of insects have become resistant to a wide spectrum of

pesticides (Myers 1983). Species capable of saving agricultural crops and billions of dollars for

American farmers will be lost without protection from the ESA. Many of these ancestor plants and

insect predators are highly endangered and urgently need to be maintained in their native habitats.

The ESA has identified many of these species and preserved them from extinction.

Life-saving Medicine from Rare Species

Worldwide, medications derived from plants are worth
$40 billion annually (Lean and Hinrichsen 1994).
Most of our medicines came originally from wild
plants, including major painkillers, birth-control
agents, and malaria drugs. Quinine, digitalis, and
morphine all come from plants. According to a study
funded by the International Union for the Conserva-
tion of Nature and the World Bank, more than 40
percent of all prescriptions in the US still depend on
natural sources (Swaminathan 1990). Only a small
percentage of wild plants have been tested for medici-
nal value. In some cases, plants that might have
disappeared altogether were found to be medical trea-

sures. The Madagascar Periwinkle is a small ﬂower-

 

Kmqu uspmo momma >110); MQN

 

 

 

 

The purple foxglave is a major source of digitalis, a
heart stimulant.

ing plant that gTOWs in a country that has lost more than 80 percent of its vegetation. Two potent

compounds found in this plant have proven effective in the treatment of Hodgkins’ Disease and

produce a 99 percent remission in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (Myers 1983). 53165

of these two drugs exceed $180 million a year (Wilson 1992).

 




 

 

 

. Another species that could have slipped into extinction is the Pacific Yew. Traditionally considered
a “trash plant” by foresters in the Pacific Northwest, this evergreen has been cleared to make way
for plant species that are profitable to the timber industry. Research in the past few years revealed
that the Pacific Yew contains compounds effective in treating ovarian and other cancers (Middleton

1992). Synthesis of these chemicals will save thousands of lives and be worth millions of dollars.

The Pacific Yew grows in old-growth forest, home of the Spotted Owl. This threatened bird’s
addition to the ESA provoked a bitter controversy between loggers and conservationists. After a
ﬂurry of lawsuits from both sides, logging limits were implemented. In spite of dire predictions from
lumber companies that 100,000 jobs would be lost as a result of the reduction in logging, employment
in Oregon, the heart of the spotted Owl’s habitat, has increased (Egan 1994). An inﬂux of technology
firms and retraining of loggers through government programs has brought new higher paying jobs
to Oregon, resulting in the highest emplOyment rate in a generation (Egan 1994). The ESA is directly

responsible for saving both the Pacific Yew and the Spotted Owl through habitat protection.

When a species’ habitat is preserved, an entire ecosystem may benefit. That ecosystem may harbor
other species valuable to medicine or perform functions essential to the health of the environment.

For instance, old growth forests keep streams and rivers clear from erosion, and their slow release

 

of water keeps rivers ﬂowing through-
out the longest droughts (Middleton
1992). Salmon find the rivers of old
growth forests ideal for spawning;
where logging has ruined stream
banks and caused erosion, salmon
have disappeared. The salmon spe-
cies of the Pacific Northwest were

once an extremely valuable economic

 

asset, but today several species of

sot/Hes 9mm Due Ilsa sn/zaiex '9 931099 '

 

 

 

 

 

salmon are approaching extinction in
Salmon stocks have plummeted in the lower 48 states as streams became

major part due to logging. degraded by logging operations.

  

 




 

Their Loss is Our Loss

Economic interests that wish to weaken the ESA argue that the Act unreasonably interferes with
government and private projects and infringes on the constitutional rights of individuals. In truth,
however, few conﬂicts have arisen and the majority of these have been settled to the satisfaction of
all. By September 1994, the US Fish and Wildlife Service has issued 36 permits for “Habitat
Conservation Plans” with 150 more in process (Fish and Wildlife Service 1995). These agreements
between the government and private landowners permit activities normally restricted under the BSA
as long as adequate safeguards to protect endangered species are adopted. Many involve financial
benefit to landowners (Fish and Wildlife Service 1995). For example, those who donate land
inhabited by endangered species to a nonproﬁt organization or to the federal government receive a

tax deduction.

To consider the ESA an economic detriment to this country is folly. This Act, a major benefit for
agriculture and medicine and a means of preserving the precious genetic heritage of this country,
must be protected. In the words of Edward O. Wilson of Harvard University, “We have inherited
a treasure house but are throwing out a great many of the pieces without so much as looking at them”
(Myers 1983). Congress will set our course by choosing either to protect this country’s natural
heritage or contribute to its destruction for the sake of short—term commercial gain. We are at a

crossroads.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Endangered Species Act’s Role in Preserving Species

The revivals of the California Condor and the Black Footed Ferret epitomize the success of the
Endangered Species Act in making it possible for native species to recover from near-extinction.

0 California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus)
This majestic bird of prey, North
America’s largest, once soared
over most of the continent. Its
bones have been found among
Florida’s Pleistocene fossils.
The California Condor’s range
has declined since Lewis and
Clark saw them frequently along
the Columbia River in Wash-
ington State. They were also
seen along the California coast
south to Baja California, Mexico
and east to the Sierra Nevada
Mountains. With their 10—foot
wing spans, the birds were easy
targets. Hundreds were shot

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sowss 951mm pun [181:1 sn/Kems Paid

 

 

 

 

during the 19th century. In the
late 1800s, when word spread
that the Condors were appro ach-
ing extinction, egg and specimen collectors preyed on the remaining birds. Between 1881 and 1910,
288 birds were killed as museum specimens. By the turn of the century, only a few hundred birds
remained, and by 1939 just 60 were left (Greenway 1967). In spite of legal protection and the
establishment of the Sespe Condor Refuge, the birds’ decline continued. California Condors were
on the verge of extinction as a result of hunting, accidental trapping and poisoning, and loss of
grassland habitat to agriculture.

The California Condor population, once reduced to 9 birds, has rebounded
thanks to the Endangered Species Act.

By 1985, only nine birds existed (Bergman 1990). The US Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), with
funding under the Endangered Species Act, chose to capture the remaining wild birds. The decision
to remove all Condors from the wild turned out to be the only way to preserve the species, since the
birds’ wide—rangin g behavior exposed them to countless perils that were beyond the control of FWS.
To the amazement of many, the captive program succeeded. By July 1994, 85 California Condors
resided in captive facilities where they had been successfully bred (Collar et al. 1994). Four captive-
bred birds survived reintroduction into the wild in 1992. For a species that does not breed until the
age of six, lays only one egg and whose chicks remain ﬂightless and dependent on their parents for
two years (Greenway 1967), this is a truly amazing recovery.

 




 

The California Condor is an ancient species whose superbly aerodynamic flight makes the most
sophisticated man-made aircraft look clumsy by comparison. As a scavenger, the Condor plays an
important role in the environment. Without the Endangered Species Act and an eleventh hour rescue
by the Fish and Wildlife Service, the California Condor would almost certainly be extinct.

° Black-footed Ferret (Mustela nigripes)
The Endangered Species Act is the primary
force behind the continuing recovery of the
BlaCk-footed Ferret. Always a rare species,
the Black—footed Ferret preyed on prairie dogs
in the vast grasslands that once covered central
North America west of the Mississippi River.
Prairie dog towns covered some 98 million
acres; one prairie dog town in the Texas Pan—
handle covered some 25,000 square miles.
Prior to the 19th century, prairie dogs may
have numbered ﬁve billion (DeBlieu 1993).
Prompted by complaints from cattlemen and
ranchers, the government sponsored the de-
struction of prairie dog towns beginning in .,
1900. Because poisoning was the main method , . .. 4.. ,. I $13.
of killing, ferrets were also poisoned when Black-footed ferrets are on the rebound. These two peer from
they fed on the dead prairie dogs. By the mid “Prairie €108 h01€~

20th century, fewer than 100 Black-footed Ferrets had ever been seen. By the 19708, all but two
percent of the prairie dog population had been poisoned, and the Black-footed Ferret and two species
of prairie do gs—the Utah and Mexican Black-tailed—were exceedingly endangered.

 

No ferrets were seen between 1953 and the early 1960s, when the Fish and Wildlife Service
considered declaring the species extinct. Then, in 1964, a small population was discovered in
Mellette County, South Dakota. No study of this elusive predator had ever been undertaken, and the
exciting discovery produced much information about the species’ breeding and life history.
Unfortunately, the South Dakota Black-footed Ferrets died out, apparently as a result of continued

rodent poisoning in the area. The captive animals kept at the Fish and Wildlife Service’s Patuxent
Wildlife Research Center also died off by 1979.

The chance recognition of a dead Black-footed Ferret by a Wyoming taxidermist in 1981 resulted
in rediscovery of this species on a ranch. Unfortunately, most of the wild population disappeared
within a few years. Of the 127 ferrets discovered, the majority apparently died from canine distemper
(Godbey and Bi g gins .1994). Eighteen ferrets were taken into captivity. The captive ferret populatiOn
rose to 118 animals by September 1989 (DeBlieu 1993) and to 250 breeding adults by 1994 (Godbey

and Biggins 1994), thanks to the efforts ’of the state of Wyoming and oversight by the Fish and
Wildlife Service.

”was 93mm pun Ilsa smumIpIoo ‘3 Hum

 

gang

Ea




gig

352132!

Reintroduction of the Black—footed ferret has been difficult. Poisoning of prairie dogs still continues,
often under government auspices. Scientists recommended that all government poisoning on public
land be halted and subsidies be offered to ranchers who do not kill prairie dogs (DeBlieu 1993). After
much research, a release site was located, and, in 1991, 49 ferrets were released north of Laramie,
Wyoming. By the next spring, two of the females had produced litters (DeB lieu 1993). In 1993, more
Black-footed Ferrets were released at a national wildlife refuge in Montana. In 1994, the species was
returned to South Dakota. The recovery programs and associated education campaigns have been
conducted with the cooperation of state, federal, local and private concerns.

Other Endangered Species Successes

The following status reports were derived from 1994 issues of the Endangered Species Technical
Bulletin, a publication of the US Fish and Wildlife Service.

0 Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus)
Bald Eagles underwent a
catastrophic decline after the
introduction of DDT and other
pesticides that interfered with
the birds ’ reproductive systems.
In 1963, only 417 nesting pairs
remained south of Alaska. The
Bald Eagle was listed in the
first Endangered Species Act
in 1967. In 1972, DDT was
banned. Public education and
strong law enforcement over
the next decades aided the

species’ recovery. Today there

are more than 4,000 nesting Director of the US F wk and Wildlife Service Mollie Beanie arid Hope as she

Pairs and five to six thousand takes Wing

juvenile birds. On June 30, 1994, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed that all but the southwestern
populations be reclassiﬁed as threatened. Mollie Beattie, Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service,
announced the return of this magnificent bird by releasing Hope, an injured Bald Eagle who had been
rehabilitated. She said, “The eagle’s recovery is a tribute to the success of the Endangered Species
Act and other conservation laws and to the selﬂess efforts of the many, many people who have
worked so hard to bring the eagle back from the brink of extinction.”

° Siler Pincushion Cactus (Pediocactus sileri)
This rare cactus was downlisted from endangered to threatened in 1993 because of increases in its

population size and distribution.

 

  
 

Jaqsanu 'w saumf Kq otoqd isod uOJSugqva

 

 




 

° Virginia Big-eared Bat (Plecotus townsendii virginianus)

Since the Virginia Big—eared Bat’s listing in 1979, populations have increased from a low of 1,300
to over 13,000 in West Virginia and North Carolina. Gates placed at nesting caves prevent vandals
and others from entering the caves and disturbing the bats.

0 Red Wolf (Canis rufus)

In 1973, only 100 red wolves
remained after predator control
programs and hybridization with
coyotes decimated this unique
American canid. Like the Cali-
fornia Condor and Black-footed
Ferret, this species became ex-
tinct in the wild. Fourteen cap—
tured wolves formed the nucleus
of the Fish and Wildlife Service’s
captive-breeding colony. By
1993, more than 233 animals re-
sided in 31 breeding facilities.
Several successful releases into
the wild have taken place in North
Carolina. Between 46 and 60

  

-/ .. «W 2333551" /A .9

After captive breeding by the Fish and Wildlife Service, Red Wolves have been
released and are reproducing in the wild. '

 

animals now survive and are breeding in the wild. Without the Fish and Wildlife Service’s breeding
and release program, the Red Wolf would be extinct.

- Heller’s Blazing Star (Liatris helleri)
Only seven wild populations of this North Carolina plant remain. With Fish and Wildlife Service
funding, 3,000 seedlings have been returned to their cliffside habitat.

0 Least Bell’s Vireo
(Vireo bellii pusillus)

New sightings of this endangered south-
ern California bird indicate that it is re-
covering and recolonizing its previous
habitat. In Riverside County, 150 vireo
pairs were seen in 1994, while only 19
pairs were recorded in 1986. Popula-
tions elsewhere have also increased.
Habitat preservation and restoration and _ .
control of the parasitic cowbird have " ' - is
been crucial to the recovery of the Least ( 7 ‘

Bell’s Vireo.

is'

Habitat destruction was the main culprit behind the decline of the
now recovering Least Bell’s Vireo.

 

 

corms emu/u pun Ilsa smxsﬁxorééw ‘s

 

 




 

 

. California Gray Whale (Eschrictius robustus)

' The North Pacific population of the Gray Whale was removed from the endangered species list after

its population increased from fewer than 10,000 in the 19303 to 21,000 in 1994. The present-
population is thought to be equal to pre—whaling numbers. Two laws brought this species back from
near—extinction—The Endangered Species Act and the Marine Mammal Protection Act.

0 Oregon Silverspot Butterﬂy (Speyeria zerene hippolyta)

This butterﬂy, native to marine grasslands lining the Pacific northwest coast of Oregon and
Washington, is threatened by habitat loss through development and growth of scrubland. The female
Silverspot lays her eggs on or near blue violets, which are the sole food for the larvae. The Siuslaw
National Forest in Oregon, where most of the remaining butterflies are found, has restored hundreds
of acres of habitat in cooperation with the Fish and Wildlife Service. The species is now on its way
to recovery.

0 Foreign Species

The Endangered Species Act
also regulates the importation
and exportation of endangered
and threatened species that are
native to other countries. The
Act listed 535 non—indigenous
species as of January 1, 1995.
Included in the list are Leop-
ards, Tigers and rhinoceroses,
the great whales, Andean Con-
dors, Harpy Eagles, many par-
rot species, Resplendent
Quetzals, all sea turtles, numer—
ous tortoises, caimans, croco—
diles, iguanas, fish, inverte—

brates and plants. Mammals US Fish and Wildlife and Customs Agents seize thousands of illegally import
specimens each year.

    

   

”5,;

ed

 

 

comprise the majority of non— ‘
indigenous species—252 endangered and 22 threatened. A permit must be obtained from the Fish

and Wildlife Service prior to importation of a listed species or any parts or products derived from
them. Permits are issued only for purposes of scientific research or to enhance survival of the species.
Permits are not granted for purely commercial activity. For example, imports of spotted cat skins
by the fur industry are not permitted. These listings have protected many endangered species, but
illegal imports continue despite risk of severe penalties, including jail sentences. Thousands of items
are confiscated by Fish and Wildlife Service agents each year. Stuffed sea turtles, coats made from
the pelts of endangered animals and taxidermy specimens are among the items often purchased by
tourists. Items destined for the traditional Chinese medicine trade, such as Tiger bones and powdered

rhinoceros horn, are brought in by smugglers.

 




 

Interpol estimates that the international illegal trade in wildlife exceeded $6 billion in 1994, second
only to the drug trade in proﬁt margins for black market commerce. In fact, wildlife trading is
increasingly linked with drug trading and other forms of organized crime. The reason is simple:
proﬁts are very high and wildlife enforcement is very weak. The mark-up price of a rare bird caught
in the wilds of South America, rivals the retail price of cocaine by the time both make their way to
the streets of Miami. This has attracted the attention of criminal syndicates who are looking for new
ways to make money as well as new channels to smuggle their other contraband in and out of the
United States. Packets of cocaine have been sewn into boa constrictors (Galster et al.1994) and
hidden in polar bear hides. Heroin has been, found in tiger skin rugs. The need for a strong ESA has
never been greater.

Departed and Fading North American Wildlife

Since 1600 at least 87 species of animals—from mammals to invertebrates—and 90 species of plants
have become extinct in North America (Prance1990, WCMC 1994). The 26 extinct vertebrate
species have left obvious ecological vacuums. The disappearance of species from parts of their
ranges, such as the loss of the Grey Wolf from most of North America, has also had important
biological consequences. The following table dramatically depicts the continued threat to North
American Wildlife.

 

North American Extinct and Threatened Animal Species
(United States of America and Canada)

Extinct Species Threatened Species
USA CANADA
Mammals 3 29 10
Birds 4 14 4
Reptiles 1 26 0
Amphibians l 1 8 0
Fishes 17 174 0
Invertebrates 61 701 13
Totals 87 962 27

SourCe: WCMC. (World Conservation Monitoring Centre). 1994. 1994 IUCN
Red List of Threatened Animals. International Union for the Conservation of
Nature, Berne, Switzerland.

 

 

 

As past extinctions have shown, wildlife conservation on a species—by-species basis is not enough.
Our ability to maintain healthy ecosystems is dependent on an accurate understanding of the
interconnection between all species. The Fish and Wildlife. Service’s National Biological Survey ,
conducted by 1,700 scientists and natural resource specialists, is the first coordinated effort to assess
and evaluate the health of species and ecosystems in the US. The Survey’s findings will aid in the
listing and delisting of endangered and threatened animals and plants under the BSA.

10

 

 




 

The Rising Rate of Bird Extinctions

 

50

Number of Bird Species Becoming Extinct

 

 

 

1 1 I 1 l, 1 1
1600-l 1650-l 1700-I 1750-l 1800-l 1850-l 1900-| 1950-
1649 1699 1749 1799 1849 1899 1949 1999

50 Year Periods

 

 

 

 

 

 

Increase in Bird Extinctions an 111 Omen

Because birds are fairly representative of vertebrate species in terms of their rates of extinction, they
are considered keen indicators of the planet’s health. Since 1600, some 121 bird species have become
extinct. The rise in the rate of extinction becomes dramatic when one analyzes the incidence over
50—year periods. Between 1600 and 1649, only four species became extinct. In the next fifty—year
period, 11 species were lost. In the 19th century, extinctions rose dramatically with 41 species lost.
In the first half of the 20th century, 37 species have disappeared, almost as many as in the entire 19th
century. Should the accelerated rate of extinction continue, one bird species will be lost every year

by the year 2000.

species because they occupy limited
difﬁcult for them to ﬂee from human
about 75% of bird extinctions took
rred on mainlands if not for the

Island species have been more vulnerable than mainland
habitats and because many are—or were—~ﬂightless, making it
hunters or adjust to changes in their environments. Until recently,
Place on islands. Undoubtedly, more extinctions would have occu

11

 

910mm] GIBJIQM [eunuv ‘qooqpuvy sagoadg paJaS’unpug am (1101} paupdeg

 




 

 

large range of most mainland birds, which enables them to sustain local extinctions and still survive.
These avian extinctions represent a great biological loss since many of these species were highly
unusual and were not closely related to any species still in existence. Consider that the tallest bird
ever to have lived on earth, New Zealand’ s Giant Moa, and the heaviest bird, the Great Elephant bird
of Madagascar, became extinct just since 1600, not in prehistoric times. The only known bird species
in which males and females had different sized and shaped beaks, the Huia of New Zealand, became
extinct early in the 20th century. The Passenger Pigeon is another casualty, along with the Northern
Hemisphere’s only penguin-like bird, the Great Auk. In each case, the birds were victims of
overhunting by humans. Other causes of bird extinctions include introduced disease, habitat
destruction and introduction of non—indigenous animals such as livestock, rats and dogs. The loss
of habitat, almost always a result of human interference, is now emerging as the major threat to birds,
although introduction of non-indigenous species, overhunting and capture for the commercial pet
trade continue to represent major dangers.

**********

We have seen biological systems collapse in the past. Central Madagascar, once a verdant paradise,
is now a moonscape. The Mediterranean was once surrounded by forests, but today much of the land
is barren and sterile. Our failure to understand and respect our natural environment and preserve the
rich array of animal and plant life is suicidal. The loss of species diversity is endangering our own
existence by eliminating our life support system. Extinctions, past and impending, are warning ﬂags,
signalling an emergency that threatens all life on earth.

12

 

 

 

 




 

 

References

Bergman, C. 1990. Wild Echoes. Encounters with the Most Endangered Animals in North America. Alaska Northwest
B ooks, Anchorage.

Collar, N.J ., M.F. Crosby and AJ . Stattersﬁeld. 1994. Birds to Watch 2. The World List of Threatened Birds. BirdLife
International, UK.

DeBlieu, Jan. 1993. Meant to be Wild. The Struggle to Save Endangered Species Through Captive Breeding. Fulcrum
Publishing, Golden, Colorado.

Egan, T. 1994. Oregon, Foiling Forecasters, Thrives as It Protects Owls. New York Times, Oct. 19, 1994, page A1.
Fenyvesi, Charles. 1995. The race to beat back crop killers. US. News & World Report, April 10, 1995, page 61-2.
Fish and Wildlife Service. 1995 . Endangered Species Bulletin. Vol. XX, No. 1, J an/Feb.

Galster, S., et al. 1994. Crimes Against Nature. Endangered Species Project, San Francisco.

Godbey, J. and D. Bi ggins. 1994. Recovery of the Black-footed Ferret: Looking Back, Looking Forward. Endangered
Species Technical Bulletin (USFWS)V01. XIX, No. 1, pages 10, 13. Jan/Feb.

Greenway, J. 1967. Extinct and Vanishing Birds of the World. Dover, New York.

Hoyt, Erich. 1994. Whale Watching and the Community: The Way Forward. Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society,
Bath, UK.

Lean, G. and D. Hinrichsen. 1994. Atlas of the Environment. Harper Perennial, NY.

Middleton, D. 1992. Ancient Forests: A Celebration ofNorth America’s Old Growth Wilderness. Chronicle Book, San
Francisco.

Myers, N. 1983. A Wealth of Wild Species. Storehouse for Human Welfare. Westview Press, Boulder, Colorado.

Prance, GT. 1990. Flora. In: The Earth as Transformed by HumanAction. Ed. byB.L. Turner etal. Cambridge University
Press.

Swaminathan, MS. 1990. Foreword. In: Conserving the World’s Biological Diversity. Ed. by LA. McNeely etal.
International Union for the Conservation of Nature, The World Bank, World Resources Institute, Conservation

International and the World Wildlife Fund.

WCMC (World Conservation Monitoring Centre). 1994. 1994 I UCN Red List of Threatened Animals. International
Union for the Conservation of Nature, Berne, Switzerland.

WDCS (Whale and Dolphin Conservation Center). 1991. personal communication.
Wilson, ED. 1992. The Diversity of Life. W.W. Norton & Co., NY.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650
Washington DC 20007

Tel: 202—337—2332 Fax: 202—338—9478 Em

 

ail: awi@igc.apc.org

 

 




 

 




