DEFENCE OF VIVISECTICN.

/A.‘

, J/ .
Resolutions Adopted by the American Medical Asso-
ciation, May 6th, 1896.

 

WHEREAS, the members of the American Medical Associa-
tion recognize the fact that the development of scientiﬁc
medicine has resulted largely from experiments upon the
lower animals ; and

VVHEBEAS, anaesthetics are habitually administered to ani-
mals subjected to painful experiments; and

WHEREAS, restrictive legislation is, in our opinion, unnec-
essary and opposed to the continued progress of medical sci-
ence ; and

WHEREAS, it is an unjust reﬂection upon the humanity of
those engaged in animal experimentation to enact laws re-
quiring them to use anaesthetics and appointing inspectors
to see that they do so; and

WHEREAS, far more unnecessary pain is constantly being
inﬂicted upon the lower animals for sport and for gain than
in biological and pathological laboratories ; and

WHEREAS, no evidence has been presented by those who
advocate restrictive legislation showing that abuses exist in
the District of Columbia; and

WHEREAS, results of great practical importance have been
obtained by experiments on the lower animals made in the
Government laboratories in the District of Columbia :

Therefore, be it resolved, That the American Medical As-
sociation earnestly protests against the passage of Senate bill
N0. 1552, entitled “A bill for the further prevention of cru-
elty to animals in the District of Columbia,” or any modiﬁ-
cation of this bill, unless it shall ﬁrst be shown by an impara
tial investigation that cruel and unnecessary experiments are

 




 

2

being performed in the District of Columbia, and that exist-
ing laws do not provide suitable punishment for cruelty to
the domestic animals.

Resolved, That copies of these resolutions, attested by the
signatures of the President of the AmeriCan Medical Asso—
ciation and of its committee appointed to draft these resolu-
tions, be sent to the chairmen of the Committees 011 the Dis-
trict of Columbia of the House of Representatives and Sen-
ate of the United States.

(Signed) BEVERLY COLE, M. D. (San Francisco),
President, American illedieal Association.

“ NICHOLAS SENN, M. D. (Chicago),
President—elect, American Medical Associaéion.

“ WM. OsLER, M. D. (Baltimore).

“ J. McFADDEN GASTON, M. D. (Atlanta).

“ GEO. M. GOULD, M. D. (Philadelphia).

“ DONALD McLEAN, M. D. (Detroit).

PHILADELPHIA, May 13m, 1896.

The undersigned, members of the Association of Military
Surgeons of the United States, now holding its sixth annual
meeting in the city of Philadelphia, respectfully join in the
protest of the American Medical Association as set forth in
the accompanying resolutions adopted by that representative
body of American physicians and surgeons at their recent
meeting in the city of Atlanta.

Among the names attached to this memorial are the fol-
lowing:

Colonel Louis Read, Surgeon- General of Pennsylvania,
President Ass’ n of Military Surgeons, U. S.

A. L. Gihon, M. D. Medical Director, U. S. N. (retired),
President- elect Ass’ n of Military Su1geons, U. S.

Colonel Charles H. Alden, Ass’t Surgeon-General, U. S.
A., Vice-President Ass’n of Military Surgeons, U. S.
I Colonel Nicholas Senn, Surgeon-General of Illinois, ex-
President Ass’n of Military Surgeons, U. S.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

3

General F. C. Thayer, Surgeon-General of Maine.

General E. J. Forster, Surgeon-General of Massachusetts.
~ General Geo. A. Bowen, Surgeon-General of Connecticut.

General J oh-n F. Fulton, Surgeon-General of Minnesota.

Major George Henderson, Surgeon—General D. C. National
Guard.

General F. W. Byers, Surgeon—General of Wisconsin.

General James L. Priestley, Surgeon-General of Iowa.

Lieut. Col. Chas. M. Woodward, Surgeon—General of
Michigan (retired).

Lieut. Col. Leonard B. Almy, Medical Director Connecti-

' cut National Guard.

Memorial of the National Academy of Sciences.

WASHINGTON, D. 0., April 24, 1896.
To the Honorable J AGOB H. GALLINGER,
Chairman of like sub-00mmiﬂee, eic. .'

SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a
letter. addressed to you by D: E. Salmon, the Chief of the
Bureau of Animal Industry, J. B. ’I‘ryon, Surgeon—General
U. S. Navy, George M. Sternberg, Surgeon-General U. S.
Army, and Walter Wyman, Surgeon-General U. S. Marine
Hospital Service, asking that the National Academy of
Sciences be called upon to express an opinion as to the
scientiﬁc value of experiments upon lower animals and as to
the probable effect of restrictive legislation upon the advance-
ment of biological science. The letter of these gentlemen is
supplemented by an expression of your desire that the Na—
tional Academy of Sciences should report or make sugges-
tions upon the subject. In accordance with your request
I have the honor to submit to you the following report as
the unanimous expression of the opinion of the National
Academy of Sciences.

Biology is the science of living organisms and tissues, and
must therefore advance by means of observations and exper-

 




 

 

 

 

4

. iments made on living beings. One of its most important
branches, viz., physiology, or the science which deals with
all the phenomena of life, from the activity of bacteria to
that of the brain-cell of man, forms the foundation upon
which the science and practice of medicine are built up, since
a knowledge of the bodily functions in their normal state is
essential for the understanding and treatment of those de-
rangements of function which constitute disease.

The fact that the pursuit of physiology consists chieﬂy
in the study of physical and chemical phenomena, as mani-
fested by living beings, makes it necessary that physiology
should be studied by experimental methods. The physiol-
ogist, no less than the physicist and chemist, can expect ad-
vancement of his science only as the result of carefully
planned laboratory work. If this work is interfered with,
medical science will continue to advance as heretofore, by
means of experiment, for no legislation can affect the posi-
tion of physiology as an experimental science ; but there will
be this important difference: that the experimenters will
be medical practitioners, and the victims human beings.

That animals must suffer and die for the beneﬁt of man-
kind is a law of nature from which we cannot escape if we
would, and as long as man claims dominion over the brute
creation and asserts his right to kill and mutilate animals in
order to obtain food and clothing, and even for purposes of
amusement and adornment, it is surely unreasonable to wage
a humanitarian warfare against the only kind of pain—giving
practice that has for its object the relief of pain.

The death of an animal in a physiological laboratory is.

usually attended with less suffering than is associated with
so-called natural death, for the discovery of anaesthetics has
extended its beneﬁcent inﬂuence over the lower animals as
well as over the human race, and in modern laboratories
anaesthetics are always employed except when the operation
involves less suffering to the animal than the administration
of the anaesthetic (as in the case of inoculation), or in those

 

 




 

 

5

instances in which the anaesthetic would interfere with the
object of the experiment.

The suffering incident to biological investigations is there-
fore triﬂing in amount, and far less than that which is asso-
ciated with most other uses which man makes of the lower
animals for purposes of business or pleasure.

As an offset to this triﬂing amount of animal suffering are
to be placed incalculable beneﬁts to the human race. From
the time when Aristotle ﬁrst discovered the insensibility of
the brain to the time when the latest experiments in the use i
of antitoxine have largely robbed diphtheria of its terrors,
almost every important advance in the science of medicine
has been the direct or the indirect result of knowledge ac-
quired through animal experimentation.

It is, of course, conceivable that persons whose occupa-
tions lead them to sacriﬁce animal life for scientiﬁc pur-
poses may at times pay too little regard to the suffering which
they inﬂict, but the academy understands that even those
who advocate restrictive legislation by Congress do not claim
that such abuses exist in the District of Columbia, and until
evidence of this sort is presented it would seem to be the
part of wisdom to leave the regulation of research in the
hands of the governing bodies of the institutions in which
the work is going on. The men engaged in this work are
actuated by motives no less humane than those which guide
the persons who desire to restrict their action, while of the
value of any given experiment and the amount of. suffering
which it involves they are, owing to their special training,
much better able to judge. When the men to whom the
Government has entrusted the care of. its higher institutions
of research shall show themselves incapable of administer-
ing them in the interest of science and humanity, then, and
not till then, will it be necessary to invoke the authority of
the national legislature.

I have the honor to be, sir,

Yours very respectfully,
(Signed) VVOLCOTT GIBBS,
President National Academy of Sciences.

         




Resolutions of the Association of American Medical
' Colleges.

In View of the proposed legislation now before the Con-
gress of the United States, the Association of American
Medical Colleges, representing the colleges of the country,
passed the following resolutions:

 

“ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL COLLEGES,
“ATLANTA, GA., allay 4, 1896 :

“ WHEREAS, There is a bill at present pending before the
Congress of the United States entitled ‘An act to prevent
cruelty to animals in the District of Columbia,’ which prac-
tically curtails experimentation upon animals, and would
eventually put a stop to medical research ; and,

“WHEREAS, Such legislation would be used to inﬂuence
similar legislation in the States which would prevent the ad-
vancement of medical science and medical education; and,

“ WHEREAS, Such legislation would be very injurious and
detrimental, and is not called for by any existing facts of
cruel experiment, as the advocates of the bill themselves
concede so far as the District of Columbia is concerned :.
be it

“ Resolved, That the Association of American Medical

4 Colleges, now in session at Atlanta, presents these resolutions
as a memorial to Congress to be made a matter of ofﬁcial
record and protest against the enactment of such legislation,
declaring it to be needless and injurious.

“Resolved fart/267', That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to The Journal of the American Medical Association
and printed and reported to the different medical colleges of
the United States, with the request that they adopt suitable
measures which will tend to prevent any legislation by Con-
gress that would interfere with animal experimentation.” 5

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

7

Memorial of the Association of American Physicians.

The Association of American Physicians, assembled in
annual session at W’ashington, D. C., May 2, 1896, by
unanimous vote and by the appended signatures of its
ofﬁcers and members, hereby records its most earnest pro-
test against such legislation as that proposed by the bill
entitled “A bill for the further prevention of cruelty to
animals in the District of Columbia ”—,—Senate Bill I 5 52——
in so far as this legislation embodies measures intended to
control and restrict experimentation upon animals con-
ducted in the Government laboratories, the medical schools
and other institutions of the higher learning in the District
of Columbia. In making this protest the Association begs
to present to the members of Congress the following con-
siderations :

Experimentation upon animals is an absolutely indis-
pensable and the most important method of investigation
of the properties of living organisms, and of the inﬂuences
which modify these properties. The science and the art
of medicine are based upon the knowledge of the structure
and the functions of living matter, and consequently in
large part upon knowledge which has been obtained by
experiments upon animals and which could have been
gained in no other way.

l, The beneﬁts to mankind of the knowledge thus acquired
‘ are of inestimable value. To mention only a few of the
results obtained within recent years by animal experimen-
tation, attention is called to the discoveries which have
revolutionized surgical practice by the introduction of
antiseptic methods of treatment, which have rendered in-
frequent the occurrence of childbed fever, which have
made it possible to prevent the development of hydrophobia
after the bite of rabid animals, which have furnished an
efﬁcacious method of cure of the otherwise incurable dis-

 

 

 

_ __.._._‘: 1.553;“: .—

 

 

 

 




 

 

8

ease, myxoedema, and which, by the antitoxin treatment,
have greatly-lessened the fatality of diphtheria. By these
and similar discoveries derived from experiments upon
animals, untold thousands of human lives have been
rescued which would otherwise surely have perished.
‘ The saving of animal life itself and the consequent
commercial proﬁts resulting from knowledge gained by
experiments upon animals have been enormous. The
beneﬁts derived from experiments upon animals largely go
to the improvement of the public health and the preven-
tion of infectious diseases. Their immediate value is often
not recognizable by the individual, unless he has informed
himself upon subjects which are in large measure of a
technical nature and belong to the study of scientiﬁc
experts.

It would require a volume to set forth adequately the
results, beneﬁcial to mankind and to animals, of knowledge
derived from experiments on animals. The assertion of
many opponents of vivisection, that knowledge obtained
from animal experimentation and which could be obtained
in no other way has been of little or no beneﬁt to man-
kind, can be referred only to ignorance or to wilful mis-
representation.

Never was there a time in which experimental medicine
gave promise of results so important for the welfare of
mankind as those which we may reasonably expect in the
near future, and never was there so little justiﬁcation as at
present to hamper in any way the work of those engaged
in searching by the experimental method for means of
preventing and curing disease.

Obvious as are such beneﬁcial results of animal experi-
mentation as those speciﬁed,——-—and many other similar
instances might have been cited by way of illustration,—-—it
should be borne in mind that the full signiﬁcance of the
importance of the results of experimentation upon ani-

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

9

mals for the biological and the medical sciences can be
adequately appreciated only by those who possess special
knowledge of these sciences, and that it is only those who
are thus informed who can fully realize the injury which
would be inﬂicted upon these sciences and upon medicine
by such legislation as that contemplated in this bill. Upon
this matter it is the voice of science and of medicine, which
is likewise the voice of true philanthropy, which should
be heard and which should control legislative action, and
not that of those who, however worthy their impulses,
however high their social position, however great their
knowledge in other departments, do not possess that
special knowledge which renders them competent to judge
of the merits of this question.

The voice of science and of medicine, so far as it receives
authoritative utterance, is overwhelmingly opposed to legis-
lation of any kind which would take in any measure the
direction of experimental medicine and physiology out of
the hands of those who on account of their special ﬁtness
have been chosen by the authorities of our higher institu-
tions of learning and of research to convey instruction and
to conduct investigations in these departments. Unneces-
sary and offensive in the highest degree would it be by any
system of ofﬁcial inspection, such as that proposed in this
bill and which might readily be used as a system of out-
rageous espionage, or by legislation of any kind, to attempt
to dictate or control how, and by whom, and for what
purposes, and under what conditions, and upon what
animals in the laboratories and the institutions of the higher
learning experiments shall be made. The decision as to
these matters should be left wholly to those in charge of
these institutions, who are the ones most competent to
judge of them.

Those engaged in the Government laboratories, in the
medical schools and the universities of this country, in

gu' . 4 v WWI-”'1'”. a’wﬂ‘ﬁmvﬁu'lmé vrw .wrw—r—ﬂ-m-w a.» «tn—«7* 1M .,______, v». ».»-,»-~ — ._. 7 rﬁ—wvn ~>~ «>«

I

 




 

 

10

teaching and in investigations which require experimenta-
tion upon animals, can be safely intrusted with this function.
To say the least, they are not less humane than are those
who advocate legislation to control and restrict animal
experimentation in these institutions. The assertion which
has been made by anti-vivisectionists, that experimenta-
tion on animals brutalizes those who witness and practice
it, is an insult, without shadow of foundation, to a class of
scientiﬁc workers devoted to the investigation of problems
of the highest importance to the welfare of mankind.
Their efforts are to secure the desired knowledge by in-
ﬂiction of the least possible needless pain upon animals
used for experimentation, and we do not hesitate to assert.
that this solicitude to avoid the inﬂiction of unnecessary
pain renders them more susceptible than the average man
to actual cruelty to animals.

We have been unable to learn that there has been a
single instance in which abuse has been made of the prac-
tice of animal experimentation in the Government labora-
tories, the medical schools or the universities of the District
of Columbia. Any legislation which proposes in any way
to control, restrict, or interfere with animal experimenta-
tion in these institutions is, therefore, unnecessary, as well
as offensive to those who are engaged in the scientiﬁc in-
vestigations conducted therein.

If there be any doubt as to the opposition of the great
body of scientiﬁc men and of physicians to such legislation
as that proposed in this bill, we beg that Congress will not
take action favorable to this bill or to any similar one
until sufﬁcient time has been given for a full expression of"
opinion from scientiﬁc and medical associations through-
out this country, for the matter is one not merely of local
interest, but may concern the future progress of the
biological and medical sciences, and of preventive and
curative medicine throughout this country.

 

 

 

 

 




 

11

A. JACOBI, M. D., President, V

NEW YORK CITY.

HENRY HUN, M. D., Secretary,

ALBANY, N. Y.

WILLIAM W. JOHNSTON, M. D., Treasurer, > Oﬁcers

WASHINGTON CITY.

G. BAUMGARTEN, M. D., Coimczﬂor,
ST. LOUIS, MO.

J. E. GRAHAM, M. 1)., Councillor,

TORONTO, CANADA. J

 

WILLIAM H. WELCH, M. D., ‘.

BALTIMORE, MD.

WILLIAM PEPPER, M. D.,

PHILADELPHIA, PA.

VICTOR C. VAUGHN, M. D.,

ANN ARBOR, MICH.

ROBERT T. EDES, M. D.,

BOSTON, MASS .

THEOBALD SMITH, M. D.,
BOSTON, MASS. J

¥ Commz'z‘z‘ee.

 

NAMES OF MEMBERS OMITTED.

MEMORIAL

Adopted by the Medical Society of the District of Co-
lumbia at a meeting held on Wednesday evening, April
22,1896.

To Me Congress of tire Uniied States:

Having been informed that an effort is being made by cer-
tain citizens of this District to secure the passage of a bill
to prevent experiments upon living animals—Senate Bill
1-552—we respectfully submit fOr your consideration the fol-
lowing facts and arguments in opposition to this bill:

First. “7e (10 not hesitate to assert that without such ex-
periments there could be no scientiﬁc biology, and medicine
would have no scientiﬁc basis. Our knowledge of physiology,

I

 

 

 

"wrvwws-Wﬁ.rrwh._-—ﬁ._. __..- "I- EM._......____¥Y,...~ a——.~ w- —— -—» n

 




 

 

1").

of toxicology, and of the action of many important medici-
nal agents has been largely gained in this way. Our pre-
cise knowledge of the etiology of a considerable number of
the infectious diseases has been obtained by inoculating
susceptible animals with pure cultures of the various patho-
genic bacteria, and could have been obtained in no other
way. By such experiments the demonstration has been
made of the speciﬁc pathogenic power of the anthrax
bacillus, the spirillum of relapsing fever, the tubercle
bacillus, the glanders bacillus, the diphtheria bacillus, the
streptococcus of erysipelas and of puerperal fever, the
micrococcus of pneumonia, etc. The prevention of hydro-
. phobia by Pasteur’s method, the treatment of diphtheria by
the antitoxine, the production of bovine vaccine virus, and
other practical applications of the knowledge already ob-
tained would be impossible if those who are urging anti-
vivisection legislation could have their way. We cannot
stop to enumerate the various important practical beneﬁts
which surgery has derived from animal experimentation;
but the experience gained in this way as regards the com-
parative value of different methods of ligating arteries, of
closing wounds of the intestines, etc., has resulted in great
improvements in surgical technique and in the saving of
numerous valuable lives.

Yet there are those who maintain that no valuable results
have been obtained by experiments upon the lower animals,
and the anti-vivisection literature, together with much sen—
sational nonsense, contains quotations from the writings of
certain physiCians which appear to support this view. No
doubt these quotations, to a certain extent, are garbled,
and in their proper connection would not give such pos-
itive testimony as to the ignorance of the physicians to
whom they are credited. For to deny the importance and
value of the results which have been obtained by experi-
ments upon the lower animals is to give evidence of lament-
able ignorance as regards the present position of the bio-

 

 

 




 

13

logical sciences, and especially of scientiﬁc medicine. But
the argument that no results of importance have been at-
tained, in view of the unimpeachable evidence to the con-
trary, is no longer given a very prominent place in anti-vivi-
section literature. This seeks rather to carry on the propa-
ganda, which had its origin in England more than twenty
years ago, by exaggerated accounts of the cruelty of the
experiments performed; and the susceptibilities of many
well-meaning and estimable members of the community have
been aroused by the harrowing details of experiments which
they are led to believe are frequently repeated in biological
and pathological laboratories, but which few of those who
devote their lives to research work in such laboratories have
ever witnessed.

Second. So far as we know, no evidence has been adduced
that cruel and unnecessary experiments are being performed
in this. District; and, in our judgment, the proposed legisla-
tion is not only unnecessary, but would seriously interfere
with the progress of scientiﬁc investigations now being car-
ried on in the various Government laboratories in this city,
and in general with the advancement of scientiﬁc medicine.

Third. That physicians and others engaged in investiga-
tions, having for their object the promotion of human knowl-
edge and the prevention and mitigation of human suffering,
are less humane than the members of the societies which have
been organized for the prevention of cruelty to animals, we
. do not believe. To pass laws subjecting them to penalties
and to espionage by persons ignorant of the nature and ob-
jects of their experiments, as is proposed, would not only
seriously hamper research work in all lines of biological in-
vestigation, but would be an uncalled-for reﬂection upon the
humanity of those members of the medical profession and
others who are engaged in investigations of this nature. As
a matter of fact, anaesthetics are habitually administered in
experiments which involve an amount of pain worthy of con-
sideration; but they are not considered necessary in triﬂing

 

 

 




14

"operations, such as the administration of a hypodermatic in-
jection or the vaccination of a calf for the purpose of propa-
gating vaccine virus.

Fourth. It is diﬁicult to understand why these mischievous
attempts should be made to secure legislation the effect of
which would be to restrict scientiﬁc investigation, when there
is such a broad ﬁeld in other directions in which the crusade
might be carried on with greater propriety. The trapping
of animals for their furs is going on in all parts of the
world, and the victims are held for hours, and even days, in
the sharp jaws of the trap before they are ﬁnally dispatched.
The huntsman leaves his uncaptured wounded game to a
lingering death. If he is a humane man, he quickly kills
the wounded bird or animal when captured, and it has not
been thought necessary to pass laws requiring him to do so.
The ﬁsherman plays the bass or salmon with a sharp hook
in its mouth for an hour or more, and no one protests, but
the teacher of biology is to be prevented by act of Congress
from exhibiting the circulation of blood in the blood-vessels
of the mesentery of a curarized frog. The farmer, by a cut—
ting or crushing operation, castrates his colts, calves, sheep,
and pigs, and capons are made by a painful cutting opera—
tion, but no one proposes legislation requiring the use of
anaesthetics in the performance of these operations. Under
these circumstances the proposition to subject those engaged
in scientiﬁc research work which calls for the performance
of experiments upon the lower animals to espionage and
penalties, as is proposed in the bill referred to, appears to
us to be an unjust discrimination against a class of men who
are entitled to the highest consideration. We therefore
respectfully protest against the enactment of any such legis-
lation.

SAMUEL O. BUSEY, M. D.,
President Medical Society, B. 0.
S. S. ADAMS, M. D.,
Recording Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

15

The Joint Commission of the Scientiﬁc Societies

OF WASHINGTON, D. C.

Ofﬁce of the Secretary, 1318 Mass. Avenue.

EXECUTIVE COM M ITTEEZ

OFFICERS.
President, GARDINER G. HUBBARD. Secretary, J. STANLEY-BROWN.
Vice-President, G. BROWN GOODE. Treasurer, P. B. PIERCE.

MEMBERS AT LARGE.

L. F. WARD (Anthropological). W. H. ASHMEAD (Entomological).
GEO. M. STERNBERG (Biological). S. F. EMMONS (Geological).
E. A. DE SCHWEINITZ (Chemical). G. K. GILBERT (National Geographic).

F. W. CLARKE (Philosophical).

Resolved, That the Joint Commission of the Scientiﬁc
Societies of Washington, composed of the officers of the
several scientiﬁc societies of the city, most earnestly opposes
the legislation proposed by Senate bill 1552, entitled “A
bill for the further prevention of cruelty to animals in the
District of Columbia.”

Resolved, That in the opinion of this Commission the pro-
posed legislation is unnecessary and would seriously inter-
fere with the advancement of biological science in this
District; that it would be especially harmful in its restric—
tion of experiments relating to the cause, prevention, and
cure of the infectious diseases of man and of the lower
animals; that the researches made in this department of
biological and medical science have been of immense beneﬁt
to the human race; and that, in general, our knowledge of
physiology, of toxicology, and of pathology, forming the
basis of scientiﬁc medicine, has been largely obtained by
experiments upon living animals, and could have been ob—
tained in no other way.

Resolved, That physicians and others who are engaged in
research work having for its object the extension of human
knowledge and the prevention and cure of disease are the
best judges of: the character of the experiments required and
of the necessity for using anaesthetics, and that in our judg-

 

 




 

16

ment they may be trusted to conduct such experiments in a
humane manner, and to give anaesthetics when required to
prevent pain. To subject them to penalties and to espionage,
as is proposed by the bill under consideration, would, we
think, be an unjust and unmerited reﬂection upon a class of
men who are entitled to our highest consideration.

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to each
member of the Committee on the District of Columbia in
the House of Representatives and the Senate of the United
States, and to the District Commissioners.

I certify that the foregoing is a correct copy of resolutions
passed by the Joint Commission of the Scientiﬁc Societies
of Washington at the meeting held on February 19, 1896.

' J. STANLEY—BROWN,

Secretary.

Resolutions Adopted by the American Academy of
Medicine, May 4th, 1896. '

“The American Academy of Medicine desires to express
its opinion that no legislation is required or desirable in the
United States in regard to the so-called practice or subject
of ‘ vivisection,’ and for the following reasons :

“1. Because only by careful discrimination and collection
of facts can public and legislative opinion be truthfully
formed. To illustrate but a single of many popular errors
upon this subject, the dissection or use of live animals by
scientiﬁc men is termed ‘vivisection,’ when the same pro-
ceeding carried out by the butcher, the hunter, restaurant
keeper, cooks, etc., does not enter into the consideration,
neither do the cruelties in the use and keeping of domestic
animals, nor those in the death of animals for purposes other
than those of experimental medicine.

“ 2. While admitting and deploring the facts of abuses in
the past and in European countries—to a very limited extent
also in America—it is the conscientious belief of the mem-
bers of the academy that at present with us such abuses do
not exist, nor are they in danger of occurring to a degree jus-
tifying or calling for legislation, and, under the circumstances,

‘7‘ \ﬁ'ﬁ




17

the evils that would inevitably result from such legislation
would greatly exceed the beneﬁts to be obtained by it. The
charge implied or openly made that physicians, either in
theory or practice, are more cruel than other classes of the
community is a fancy or prejudice of ignorance which can-
notbe proved, and which we strenuously deny.

“3. Legislation upon the subject of cruelty to animals
should be so framed as to include consideration of cruelties
inﬁnitely greater and more extensive in many other ﬁelds of
human activity at present not actively objected to by those
who urge legislation as regards experimental medicine. Not
only this, but legislation concerning the matters should be
broadened out in order to prevent the destruction of species
of birds and other animals by the votaries of fashion, by the
hunters, etc., to prevent derangement of the delicate balance
of animal and vegetable life, upon which civilization ulti-
mately and largely rests, to prevent deforestation of the head-
waters of our streams, to establish sanctuaries or resorts for
animals, and many such biologic requisites; as also to estab-
lish such arrangements with other nations as will insure their

- permanent and extensive effectualization.

“4. Legislation upon such a subject of vital importance
to a peculiarly technical branch of science should be framed
under the guidance and by the aid of those who by educa-
tion and experience are alone fitted and capable of forming
and expressing sound judgments upon it, i. e., the experts in
the special subjects. It would be as absurd to have legisla-
tion as to vaccination inspired and shaped by laymen who
were anti-vaccinationists, Without weighing the opinion of
the medical profession, as to allow legislation upon the ques—
tion of vivisection by laymen who are anti-vivisectionists, and
even inexpert in any branch of inductive science.

“ 5.‘ The American Academy of Medicine, therefore, urges
the members and physicians generally to write to their rep-
resentatives in Congress (or wherever legislation of the kind
in question is proposed), and otherwise seek to inﬂuence
public and ofﬁcial opinion against the passage of a particu-
larly ill-advised bill before Congress, to wit: Senate bill N o.
1552, introduced by Mr. McMillan, entitled ‘A bill for the
further prevention of cruelty to animals in the DiStrict of
Columbia.’ In the opinion of the academy, the passage of
the bill would be harmful to the true interests of medical
and social science and to the public health.”

 

 




 

 

18

These resolutions were unanimously adopted by the Amer-
ican Academy of Medicine, and in the minds of unprejudiced
persons will no doubt outweigh the garbled extracts, which
have been circulated by the opponents of animal experimen-
tation, from the presidential address of a former president
of the academy—Dr. Theophilus Parvin, of Philadelphia.

In this connection we would invite attention to the follow-
ing quotation from the same address. With reference to re-
strictive legislation Dr. Parvin says:

“ Should the law restrict the performance of vivisection?
I think it ought, chieﬂy as an expression of public sentiment
and for'the moral effect; for violations of its provisions
could usually only be discovered by a system of espionage,
by the employment of detectives, of spies and informers, ut-
terly alien to our system of government, and who are, as a
rule, abominable.”

Protest of the Biological Society of Washington,
Signed by the Members of the Society and Trans-
mitted to the Congress of the United States.

We, the undersigned, members of the Biological Society
of Washington, do hereby respectfully protest against the
passage of the bill entitled “A bill for the further prevention
of; cruelty to animals in the District of Columbia,” S. 1552,
or the substitute which is now proposed, because such legis—
lation is, in our opinion, entirely uncalled for, and because
on account of the numerous restrictions and unduly severe
penalties, it is calculated to bring law into contempt.

It has not, to our knowledge, even been alleged that
there is any abuse of the practice of vivisection in the
District of Columbia.

Speciﬁcally, we object to it on the following grounds:

That it prevents the veriﬁcation of discoveries or of alleged
discoveries in biological sciences.

Important curative properties are often ascribed to
substances, or methods of procedure advised, which no
one should adopt without careful veriﬁcation.

i 7‘. ‘_ —_~. P———§‘ﬁ.—~A

 

 




\ﬁ ’
N—‘\ _

19

That it unjustly restricts licenses to perform experiments
on living animals to persons over 25 years of age unless they
are graduates of some medical college and duly authorized
to practice in the District.

This would prevent all experiments, however neces-
sary, by students, and some of the most important
physiological work has been done by undergraduates in
the preparation of theses.

That by its wording the bill would permit the proposed
inspectors to interrupt or interfere with any delicate or
dangerous experiments which might be in progress at the
time of their visit to any laboratory.

Such interference might prevent the successful ending
of a long series of experiments, or might even endanger
the life of the operator.

That nothing is said as to the ﬁtness or proper qualiﬁca‘
tions of the propOsed inspectors.

By the wording of the bill, any person, no matter
how ignorant, incompetent, or biased in judgment, may
be appointed an inspector, and the views expressed by
the advocates of this legislation justify the apprehen—
sion that unfriendly and intolerant persons will be urged
for these positions.

Memorial of the Washington Chemical Society.

WASHINGTON, D. 0., May 14m, 1896.

In view of the proposed legislation now before the Sen-
ate in the form of a bill entitled “An act for the further pre—
vention of cruelty to animals in the District of Columbia,”
which, however, is practically an act to limit, and eventually
stop, all experiments upon animals in the District of Colum—
bia, the Chemical Society of Washington, including among
its members a number of the most prominent chemists in
the country, desires to present to the Senate of the United
States a formal and positive protest against the enactment
of any legislation upon the subject of vivisection.

 

 




 

 

20

The laws at present on the statute books of the District
of Columbia, if properly carried out, will apply to all cases
of cruelty to animals which exist in this District.

The proposed bill is objectionable for very many reasons.
The penalties prescribed for the infraction of the law are
preposterous. An expert who did not happen to possess a
permit from the District Commissioners for the performance-
of experiments upon animals might suddenly have placed in
his hands material the dangerous character of which could
only be determined by an immediate experiment upon an
animal. Should such a test be made without a license,
though possibly the lives of hundreds of people were involved,
the experimenter would be subject to an enormous ﬁne and
imprisonment for having, in the interests of humanity, inoc-
ulated a guinea-pig or a rabbit or some other animal without
a formal permit from the District Commissioners.

While the majority of the members of our society are not
directly engaged in experiments in which animals are used,
we know that in certain lines of work—toxicology, materia
medica, biochemistry, and the like—animal experimentation
is absolutely necessary for the advancement of knowledge.

The agitators of the proposed legislation have not been
able to show a single instance of cruel experiments conducted
in the District of Columbia, either in any of the laboratories
or medical colleges or public schools, consequently there is
no need for any law on the subject. Furthermore, Wash-
ington is becoming the centre of education for the entire
United States. Four large universities are located here;
several more are in prospect, and the proposed legislation
would hamper and eventually destroy all possibility for ad-
vanced post-graduate work in the biological sciences, and
indirectly in all allied branches.

We therefore, collectively as a society, and individually
as members, desire to protest strenuously against any legis-
latiOn on the subject of vivisection, deeming it to be unwise,
unnecessary, and in direct opposition to the spirit which has

 

 

 




 

21

for a number Of years actuated the United States Govern-
ment in encouraging the advancement of science. We hold
further that such legislation would be a direct contradiction
Of the well-known practical results that have already been
obtained by scientiﬁc investigations conducted under the
Government, which have made possible the saving of many
thousands of dollars’ worth of property and many human
lives.
Yours very respectfully,
' (Signed) E. A. DE SOHWEINITZ, Ph. D., M. D.,
President, Vfashington Chemical Society.
A. C. PEALE, M. D., Secretary.

W. D. BIGELOW, Ph. D.,
W. G. BROWN, Ph. D.,
Vice-Presidents.

CHARLES E. MUNROE, Ph. D.,
W. P. CUTLER, B. S.,
H. N. STOKES, Ph. D.,
V. K. CHESNUT, B. S.,
F. P. DEWEY, Ph. 13.,

Members of the Executive Committee.

Memorial of the Entomological Society of
Washington.

WASHINGTON, May 7, 1896.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States:

The Entomological Society Of Washington respectfully but
most urgently protests against the proposed legislation em-
bodied in Senate bill 1552, and in the proposed substitute
bill recently presented to the Senate Committee on the Dis-
trict Of Columbia.

The protest against the original bill, while directed against
many Of the provisions preserved in the proposed substitute,

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

22

is based chieﬂy upon the ground that said bill would effectu-
ally prohibit all investigation in economic entomology into
the best methods of meeting and destroying the numerous
insect pests which cause so much damage to the agricultural
interests of the country. .

Although the insertion of the word “vertebrazfc” in the
proposed substitute bill completely frees us in our entomo-
logical investigations from the pernicious legislation which
threatens our colleagues in vertebrate zoology and medicine,
we stili respectfully but urgently protest against the passage
of the bill upon the following grounds:

ﬁ’zimzf. While not directly affected by the provisions of the
bill, we as well as the rest of the community would be indi-
rectly affected.

Secondly. As scientiﬁc men, accustomed to the conditions
governing scientiﬁc research work, we see provisions in said
substitute which will greatly hamper specialists in vertebrate
zoology and medicine in their investigations.

T/zirdly. Personal acquaintance with our colleagues, and
personal knowledge of the class of work they are doing and
of the dangers to which they are often subjected in their ex-
periments, convince us that the proposed legislation is un-
called for, unjust, and only calculated to bring law into con-
tempt. , -

[mart/Ely. Accepting the expression “cruel experiments”
as meaning experiments upon animals in which there is an
unjustiﬁable inﬂiction of pain, we declare that we know of
no cruel experiments which have ever been performed in
the District of Columbia by any of our colleagues.

Fifthly. We are ﬁrmly of the conviction that if any “cruel
experiments” should be performed by any men, the re-
bukes and contempt which such men would justly earn
and receive from their own colleagues would bemuch more
effectual in preventing a repetition of such experiments than
any system of espionage, ﬁne, or imprisonment. _

Sim/My. “7e see no difference in principle between the

 

 

 

 




 

J?

 

 

 

 

23

system of espionage proposed in the bill and a proposition
to institute an inspection of the amphitheatres of hospitals
during critical surgical operations, or an inspection of the
private sick room during professional calls by family physi-
cians. .

Savant/ﬂy. We see no more necessity for passing a law
that experimenters shall administer anaesthetics whenever
possible than a law compelling surgeons to use anaesthetics
in operations. In both ﬁelds of work occasions arise when
chloroform or ether cannot be used ; in both ﬁelds of work
the common sense of humanity would naturally lead the
operator to use anaesthetics if possible, even if the question
of utility were set entirely aside.

Eight/My. The bill prevents the conﬁrmation in the Dis-
trict of alleged scientiﬁc discoveries made elsewhere, a pro—
vision which can result only in prolonging agony and caus-
ing death in many cases.

Tent/zly. As zoologists, we fail to see why a cat, a disease-
spreading dog, a horse, ass, or kicking mule, is any more
worthy of the special attention, deliberation, and consider—
ation of the United States Congress than are the cow, hog,
rabbit, or chicken.

Elevem/zly. The reports to be made by investigators, as
provided for in the bill, would lead to the premature disclos-
ure of conclusions only half established.

Memorial of the Philosophical Society of Washington.

WAsHINGTON, D. (3., May 14, 1896.

The Philosophical Society of Washington, through its
committee appointed for that purpose, respectfully protests
against the legislation proposed for the restriction of animal
experimentation in the District of Columbia, for the follow-
ing reasons :

First. No satisfactory evidence has been presented show-
ing that abuses exist in this District calling for the legisla-
tive action of the Congress of the United States.

 

 




m____—._.M.h_—_____ .~~W_#——~—_—— a ,‘.,___7 Wi._.______.____ﬁ:

26

ﬂicted on the English and Scotch moors during a single week
in September than in all the biological laboratories of Europe
in a year. Can vivisection be condemned and sport exoner-
ated? We hold that the case in favor of the former is in-
comparably stronger than that in favor of the latter. The
advancement- Of knowledge, the mitigation of human misery,
the prevention of disease—surely these are inﬁnitely higher
and nobler motives for the inﬂiction of pain than mere health-
ful exercise and transient enjoyment. We confess to feel—
ings of wonder and indignation when we see the biological
investigator assailed with opprobrium while the sportsman is
exonerated or applauded, and we regard such an attitude as
worthy only of those days when it was a crime to examine a
corpse, and when Vesalius ran the gauntlet of sharp per—
sonal peril in laying the foundations of the science of an-
atomy. Our duty to the lower animals is too large, a subject
for us to consider here. We repeat that unnecessary cruelty
is odious and loathsome, but life is difﬁcult, disease and suf—
fering are terrible realities, and we have no doubt in our
minds that the most enlightened humanity will continue to
countenance as necessary and unavoidable the inﬂiction of
a measure Of pain upon the lower animals for the beneﬁt of
mankind.”

 

 

VIVISECTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

 

The follOwing is a copy of a letter from the Superintendent
of Public Schools in the District of Columbia:

OFFICE OF SUPEEINTENDENT OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS,

FRANKLIN SCHOOL,
WASHINGTON, D. 0., April 245/2, 1896.

DEAR SIR: In answer to your favor of the 16th inst. I
beg to say as follows : .

First. Vivisection does not take place in any form in any
of the public schools of the District of Columbia by au-
thority. . 5;

Second. Vivisection has never been practised in the schools H
of the District of Columbia so far as I have been able to
ascertain after the most diligent inquiry. ,2

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

‘2'.
,. ”hm- ,. ,

27

T/ii’rd. No legislation is necessary on this subject, because
the authorities of the schools are radically opposed to vivi—
section except by experts for scientiﬁc purposes, and will
do everything in their power, without legislation, to prevent
its occurrence in the public schools.

I suspect that if it has been thought by any one that vivi-
section is practised the impression has come from the fact
that much dissection is practised in the teaching of physiol-
ogy, as our method of teaching is objective whenever it can
be made so. Every school, therefore, draws heavily upon
the neighboring markets for specimens of eyes, lungs, brains,
joints, sections of bone and muscle, etc.

I am,
Yours very respectfully
(Signed) W. B. POWELL,
Supt.
Dr. CH. WARDELL STILEs.

VIVISECTION AND DISSECTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLs.*——In
its March number, Our Animal friends, which is the
organ of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, justly deprecates the enactment of a law “to
prohibit the (sic) vivisection and dissection in the public
schools of this State” (New York), as a bill is entitled that
was before the legislature recently. Our contemporary?
savs:

“During the long experience of our society it has been
found that nothing obstructs our work more surely than at—
tempted needless special legislation, and it rarely happens
that a session of the legislature passes without the intro-
duction of some well-meant bill, the only certain effect of
which would be to weaken, and not to strengthen, the
present excellent laws for the protection of animals. The
bill above quoted is distinctly of that class; and we shall
now proceed to show (1) that the evil which it is intended

 

 

* From the New York Medical Journal of March 21. 1896.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28

to correct does not exist in this State; (2) that the existing
law is amply sufﬁcient to prohibit its introduction and to
suppress it if it should be introduced ; and (3) that the bill,
if it should be enacted, would have no other effect than to
weaken the provisions of the present law in this very matter
of vivisection.

“ Since November last we have had repeated statements
made to us that vivisection has been practised in three of
the public schools of the State. These three are the only
schools against which the charge has been brought.
In one of them the evidence is so absurdly self-con-
tradictory as to prove the whole story to be a mere
canard, and an investigation into the other two has
proved the charge to be equally unfounded. The prin-
cipal of one of the schools writes in the following explicit
terms: ‘Vivisection never has been and never is likely to be
practised in our school;’ and the principal of the other
writes, not less explicitly: ‘No demonstrations or experi-
ments upon living animals have ever been performed here.’
As these are the only schools in which so much as a rumor
of the practice of vivisection has reached us, and as we be-
lieve it would not be possible for that practice to be introa
duced into any part of this State without some report of it
reaching the ofﬁce of our society, we feel ourselves at liberty
to afﬁrm with conﬁdence that vivisection is not practised in

' the public schools of the State of New York. It follows, as

a matter of course, that no law is required for the suppres-
sion of a practice which does not in fact exist. if * *

“ For these reasons—because the nefarious practice of
vivisection in the public schools does not exist in the State
of New York; because the present law is amply sufﬁcient
for its suppression if it did, or should exist; and because
the only effect of the proposed law, so far as vivisection is
concerned, would be to bring the present law into doubt, and
so to weaken its efﬁciency—therefore, we are constrained,
with entire respect for the promoters of the measure, to hope

that it may not be passed by the legislature.”

BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY.
Dr. DANIEL E. SALMON, Chief.

The following brief statement of investigations by the
Bureau of Animal Industry, though not complete, is sufﬁ—

 

 

 




V“
\
MI

 

 

 

29

cient to set forth the value of animal experimentation to
the agricultural and commercial interests of the country:

DIVISION OF ANIMAL PATHOLOGY. (1884—1896.)
Present Chief, DR. V. A. MOORE. Former Chief, DR. THEOBOLD SMITH.

The discovery of the power to produce immunity with ster-
ilized cultures.

Investigations into the various methods of protecting swine
against swine plague and hog-cholera by inoculations.

Investigations to determine if the disease of cattle existing
in the United States in 1884 was identical with the contagious
pleuro-pneumonia of Europe.

The discovery of the bacillus of swine plague. The de-
termination of its power to resist disinfectants, and the meth-
ods for preventing the spread of the disease.

Investigation to determine if the vaccine for the disease
known as rouget of swine could be used to prevent hog-
cholera.

The determination of several varieties of hog-cholera and
swine plague.

The discovery of the speciﬁc cause of Texas fever, the
way it is transmitted from the southern to northern cat-
tle, and consequently the development of methods by which
cattle from the infected districts in the South may be shipped
to the Northern markets without spreading the disease.

The discovery of the cause of a destructive disease in tur-
keys and the method by which the disease is transmittted.

Experiments which have shown that a disease of cattle
known as the cornstalk disease is not a contagious disease.

The determination of rabies in outbreaks of cattle disease,
the nature of which was heretofore not understood.

The diagnosis of rabies in a large number of dogs in the
District of Columbia and vicinity.

Many investigations which have shed much light upon the
variability of infectious diseases, and upon the efﬁciency of
attenuated, ﬁltered, and heated cultures, blood serum from

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

30

immune and healthy animals in producing immunity against
infectious diseases of animals, such as hog—cholera and swine
plague.

The discovery of pathogenic bacteria resembling the swine-
plague bacillus in the air passages of a la1ge pe1centage of
the domesticated animals. This is imp01tant in explaining
the cause of spo1adic pneumonia.

Investigations into the pathology of diphtheria in poultry.

Investigations into the pathology of sporadic pneumonia
which have been of great value commercially, as it has fre—
quently been diagnosed contagious pleuro-pneumonia.

Many investigations into the nature of glanders, anthrax,
symptomatic anthrax and tuberculosis, which have been of
great value in enabling a positive diagnosis to be made and
means afforded for preventing their spread to other animals,
and possibly man.

BIOCHEMIC LABORATORY. (1890—1896.)

Dr. E. A. DE SCHWEINITZ, Chief.

Isolation of the poisons of the hog-cholera germ and
their relation to immunity from this disease.

Isolation of the poisons of the swine-plague germ and
their relation to immunity.

Further study of the poisons of the glanders bacilli and
their 1elation to immunity and the practical use of mallein.

Further study of the poisons of the tuberculosis bacillus
and the practical value and use of tuberculin.

The isolation and study of the attenuated tuberculosis
bacillus and its relation to immunity.

The isolation and study of an attenuated diphtheria
bacillus.

The possibility of the transmission of disease by oleomar-
garine, etc.

The immunizing property of the blood serum of animals
immune to the hog-cholera and swine-plague germs.

The immunizing property of the serum of animals ren-
dered resistant to tuberculosis.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

31

ZOOLOGICAL LABORATORY. (1891—1896.)

Dr. CH. WARDELL STILEs.

Experiments upon the life history of various animal par-
asites, as :

Determination of the life history and American interme-
diate host of the giant thorn-headed worm (Eclaz'zzor/zync/ms
gig/18).

Refutation of the supposed direct development of the
adult cestodes (particularly Monies-2'04 eaymnsa: and Jlf. pla-
nissima) of cattle, sheep, and allied animals.

Demonstration of the non-transmissibility of Tcem'a gagi-
nata to sheep, thus excluding mutton as source of infection.

Numerous experiments on the transmissibility and non-
transmissibility of various scab insects from one animal to
another.

Studies on the life history of the large American Fluke
(Fasciola magnet).

Numerous experiments upon trichinosis in order to de-
termine the duration of “ pickling” necessary to render
trichinous pork Wholesome.

Experiments in the determination of doses of certain
anthelmintics. ~

Experiments upon the vitality of the eggs of certain par.-
asites.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




