 

 

The Humane Slaughtering of
Animals for Food.

 

_._.

BACON FACTORIES
' and

THE HUMANE KILLER

(A reply to Mr. A. E. Marsh)

By
R. O. P. PADDISON

(Hon. Humane Slaughtering
Adviser to R.S.P.C.A.).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

INTRODUCTORY NOTES.

I. In all writings and statements authorised by the R.S.P.C.A-
cruelty should be taken to mean the inﬂiction of avoidable suffering.
The question of culpability of individuals does not concern the
Society in this connection. Cruelties which are the result of force
of habit, lack of perception, thoughtlessness, etc., may be as
distressing to the victims as wilful cruelty, and it is clearly the
Society’s duty to protect animals from all cruelties.

2. The names of ﬁrms and persons who follow humane slaughter-
ing methods and the names of places areromitted in this pamphlet
because of the uncomfortable attentions to which those who use the
humane killer have sometimes been exposed by a powerful trade
organisation. A large ﬁrm of bacon curers, which has sucCessfully
used humane killers for twelve years, gave us a very useful testi-
monial, which we often published. But they were approached by the
organisation referred to, with the result that the ﬁrm asked us to
cease publishing the testimonial. ” The names however, will be given
in strict conﬁdence to bona ﬁde enquirers on a satisfactory assurance
that the information will not begapplied to the annoyance of users of
humane killers.

3. The term “humane killer ” is not used with any intention
to arrogate greater virtue on the part of its advocates, but because
the term has become incorporated in our language. It was applied
more than 25 years ago by the manufacturers of the ﬁrst instrument
of; the kind which was made in England, and has been in general use
ever since. Moreoverthe term accurately expresses the purpose and
effect of the instrument in giving a painless death to the animal.

«I

 

 

 

.

“an




 

. "i'

 

 

BACON FACTORIES AND
THE HUMANE KILLER.

I.
Cruelty and its Prevention by the
Humane Killer.

Bacon pigs claim particular attention on the part of the R.S.P.C.A.
because of the very painful and distressing methods usually practised
in factories in the killing of these animals, and more especially in
the handling of them before slaughter. The process is as follows :-—
The pig is shackled by a hind leg with a chain attached by a slip
noose, and then hoisted head downwards. Bacon pigs weigh from I60
to zoolbs. and often more, and the pain which the animals endure
when this weight tightens the noosed chain round the foot or the hock
is easy to realise. If anyone doubts it, I would suggest, he might try
it for a few seconds on himself. After being hoisted for 20 or 30
seconds or more, according to the smartness with which the work is
done, the pig is stuck and bled, and as long ' as consciousness
continues, he gets no respite from the pain of the shackled limb.

The advocates of the method maintain that all pain ceases with-
in a few seconds of the stick, as the knife severs the carotid arteries.
The theory is that when the carotids are completely severed, the supply
of blood to the brain is cut off, thereby causing anaemia of the brain
and rapid unconsciousness. As a theory this is correct, but in actual
practice, taking factory killing as a whole, the theory is only veriﬁed
in a small minority of cases, because complete severance of the caro-
tids in pigs is a very difﬁcult operation to perform, requiring ex-
ceptional skill.

When beasts are slaughtered by the Jewish method, the head of
the animal is extended and the knife is drawn across the exposed throat.
This is a much easier operation than to sever the carotids in pig
sticking as with pigs the knife is ﬁrst thrust into the ﬂesh, and the
arteries, which are out of sight, have to be located by judgment on
the part of the slaughterer. We know that in the Jewish slaughter

3

 




 

 

of beasts the cut is not always followed by a free ﬂow of blood ; and
when the ﬂow is not free, unconsciousness is retarded. The well
known report of Sir Michael Foster and Professor Starling makes this
point very clear, and anyone accustomed to watch for the symptoms
of pain as distinct from reﬂex movements, assuming his judgment
is not warped by religious or other prejudice, will hardly fail. to
notice that when the cut produces an instant rush of blood, the animal
suffers very little if at all ; but when the bleeding is not free, uncon-
sciousness is delayed, sometimes considerably.

Let anyone carefully watch the sticking of hoisted pigs by
average slaughterers in bacon factories, and he will see that as com-
pared with Jewish slaughtering, the pig’s sufferings last much longer.
When the operation is successful, the pig’s shrieks stop. within a few
seconds of sticking ; usually 30 seconds elapse, and often much longer.
and all the time the pain in the shackled limb is probably much more
severe than the pain from the wound.

There is one thing that sometimes appears to banish the sensa—
tion of pain. Now and then a pig seems to be so overwhelmed with
terror at being suddenly turned upside down and hoisted aloft that
his brain is dead to any other impression. We know that human
beings when under the inﬂuence of very powerful emotions are tem—
porarily insensible to pain, and the same law seems tc apply to ani-
mals. When pigs are hoisted terror is always added to pain, except
in those cases where pain is banished by terror.

Mr. A. E. Marsh in a speech to the Executive Committee of the
National Federation of Meat Traders, which has since been issued
as a pamphlet, defended the hoisting and sticking method of killing
pigs, and strongly condemned the use of a mechanical killer. Mr.
Marsh is the head partner of Messrs. Marsh and Baxter, who are the
leading ﬁrm of bacon curers and pork butchers in the country. Mr.
Marsh therefore speaks with considerable authority, and I recognise
the seriousness of his opposition to the humane method. I may say
on my part that I have been at close quarters with humane slaughter-
ing methods during the past twelVe years and I have constantly
studied the usual methods of slaughter in small and large establish-
ments. Of the pork butchers and bacon curers to whose notice I
have brought the humane killer, several have adopted it voluntarily
and with these I have kept in touch. With hardly an exception they
all compete with others doing a similar trade who do not use a
humane killer, and many of them send their produce to different parts
of the country. The shooting method was sometimes adopted at
sight ; in other cases there was sometimes a long wait before it was
allowed a footing. But wherever the humane killer was admitted there
it has stayed and in not one single case has it been cast out. This

at any rate is my own experience of where I have been instrumental

4.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

in introducing the humane killer. Having had this eXperience I feel
I am on sure ground.

Referring to his own factory Mr. Marsh says : “our method is to
hoist the hogs on an endless chain, and the fact that we are able to
slaughter them at the rate of from eight to ten per minute, shows the
rapidity of the operation.”

The ﬁrst part of this statement omits all reference to the pain
of hoisting. As to the second part of it, I would point out that the
period of suffering of the pigs individually is not in any way shortened
because of the rapidity with which they are slaughtered collectively.
The pigs might all suffer half a minute, a minute, or two minutes,
and yet they might be hoisted and stuck at the rate of ten or even
twenty per minute. The whole statement is therefore rather mis-
leading ‘to any one not conversant with bacon factory methods.

I notice however that in a paragraph which deals with the
knowledge or fear of impending death on the part of slaughtered ani—
mals in general, Mr. Marsh says “ Whatever suffering there may be
arises primarily out of the preliminary handling immediately prior
to slaughtering,” by which it would appear that he has not
overlooked the pain and terror caused by hoisting pigs. But he goes
on to say, “ It has been established beyond doubt that distress before
slaughter is greatly prolonged where the shooting method is adopted
owing to the difficulty and sometimes the impossibility of getting
the animal into position.” I traverse this statement entirely in its
application to those cases where very moderate efforts are put forth
to make the humane killer a success. In the killing of beasts one of
the advantages of the humane killer is that it reduces the period of
preparation considerably and thereby saves time and trouble to
the men. In killing sheep and calves, the use of the humane killer
makes no addition whatever to the period of preparation. With pigs
(apart from bacon factories) the animals are usually secured as for
sticking ; the humane killer is then used, after which the pig is stuck.
[n bacon factories the use of the humane killer reduces the period of
pain and distress prior to slaughter very considerably, as the pig is
unconscious when being hoisted. Naturally the adaptation .of
the humane killer to the slaughter of animals can be “ bungled ” like
anything else ; and bungling is more likely to occur where there is
prejudice against its use.

I fully accept that at Mr. Marsh’s big factory the hoisting takes
less than the usual time; also that the work is done very quickly,
that the sticking is above the average in skill, as the men are in
constant practice on a large scale. One may assume also that only
expert stickers are engaged in the ﬁrst instance, so as to cope with
the requirements at the factory. Where and how have these men

5

 

 




 

 

learnt to become eXpert ? Obviously only by practice on pigs in other
establishments where a lower level of proﬁciency is exacted. This
raises the question of the cruelty of general pig sticking under the
existing system. Men of every degree of skill stick pigs throughout
the country, from the beginner who only punctures the arteries, or
vainly gropes for them, to the ﬁnished expert who commands excep—
tionally high wages and is ﬁt for work in the large factories. Some
men have more than average aptitude and acquire skill very quickly,
others improve slowly, they may never become expert, and still they
continue their vocation.

The expert sticking in the large factories cannot be disassociated
from the cruelty of incompetent sticking, as it is only by going through

the preliminary stages that the men ﬁnally reach the expert stage. - I

The whole system from top to bottom is cruel because it inﬂicts great
suffering to large numbers of animals which could be avoided by the
use of the humane killer. The humane killer destroys the brain as
the ﬁrst step in the process of slaughter, after which the animal is
insensitive to the pain of sticking, and the worse pain of hoisting. If
the humane killer were used on every pig slaughtered in the country
the pain of hoisting and sticking would be non-existent.

But Mr. Marsh says that the humane killer is often ineffective.
This may be true of places where slaughtermen are allowed to start
using the humane killer without a short preliminary instruction, and
where the local authority neglects its duties. There is no difﬁculty
in quickly instructing men accustomed to handling pigs to shoot them
effectually with a humane killer. At A. when the clause 9b. ﬁrst
«came into operation the slaughtermen at the abattoir had only two
failures on the ﬁrst 700 pigs, and these were quickly repaired, so that
even in the case of these failures the pigs suffered for a much shorter
time than they would have done by the average stick, or by hoisting.

Even when the humane killer fails, the pig is often rendered tempor- -

arily unconscious and does not recover before his brain has been des-
troyed by a stronger cartridge.

There are many places where the humane killer is used as a
means of preventing the nuisance to the neighbourhood caused by the
cries and groans of pigs when hoisted and stuck in the usual way.
Could there be a better proof of the efficacy of the humane method as
a means of preventing pain P

Mr. Marsh says that “ the fullest provision is already made to
prevent cruelty in slaughterhouses, not only in the bye—laws of local
authorities but by the Protection of Animals Act.” Unfortunately
he is mistaken. Neither any local bye-law nor, the Protection of
Animals Act applies to the usual methods of slaughter or preparation
for slaughter, if no unnecessary suffering is inﬂicted. But the

6




'3

Cruelties of the methods, including cruelty from incompetence, are
an indispensible accompaniment to the methods, without which the
methods could not be continued ; so these cruelties are not unneces-
sary as the law and the bye—laws now stand. The provision therefore .
only applies to cruelties caused by wantonness, gross negligence,
etc., and the systematic cruelties which would be prevented by the
general use of humane killers ﬂourish without restraint, except in
those districts where butchers adopt these instruments voluntarily,
or the local authorities have made them compulsory.

Under the Protection of Animals Act something might be done
towards promoting care and consideration for animals when slaugh-
tered or prepared for slaughter, if the Inspectors of the R.S.P.C.A.,
whose only duty is to prevent cruelty, had the right of entry to
slaughterhouses. Where they are allowed to enter, it is only on
sufferance, and they are well aware that even this concession would
be withdrawn if the performance of their duties caused any annoy—
ance to occupiers of slaughterhouses or their men.

11.

The Humane Killer no detriment to Bacon
Cure-rs.

We all admit that good bleeding of the carcase is necessary for
bacon curing. This does not mean that every drop of blood must
leave the carcase, as that is impracticable, and never occurs, either
in the slaughter of pigs or in Jewish slaughter. It simply means
that the carcase must be sufﬁciently well drained to produce good
bacon and hams which can be made to keep a short time or a long
time, according to the method of curing employed. Looking at the '
question from this point of View bacon curers who use the humane
killer hold their own perfectly well, as I will show later on.

Mr. Marsh says that when a pig is shot the heart’s action usually

. stops at once. I cannot accept this, because it is contrary to the ex-

perience of other observers, and my own. Mr. Marsh’s theory seems
to be that when the medulla is destroyed by a bullet the heart’s
action immediately ceases. But this theory takes no account of the
fact that even when the medulla is destroyed the nervous vitality
stored in the muscles of the heart continues its action until the pig is
“ bled out ”even after. I would also point out that it is not necessary
when using a humane killer to destroy or injure the medulla at all.

7

 




 

He also tells us that breathing usually stops immediately; it cer-
tainly does stop immediately in some cases, but it cannot be shown
that in practice this makes any difference in the result. When breath-
ing stops immediately on shooting the ﬁrst rush of blood after
sticking is dark in colour because it lacks the oxygen with which breath—
ing supplies it ; but the ﬁrst rush of blood comes from the organs of
the body and large blood vessels. The blood which drains the ﬂesh
of the animal appears at a later stage, and when the pig has been shot
its colour is the same as when the pig has not been shot.

But some of Mr. Marsh’s worst objections to the humane killer
are based on an improper adaptation of the instrument. He says,
“ Greater danger to slaughtermen arises owing to violent ‘ reﬂex action
in shot pigs ’.” But pigs should not be stuck during violent reﬂex.
There is no need to expose the men to the danger referred to. I
have a letter from the manager of a bacon factory at B. to say that
before the use of a humane killer several accidents had occurred at
his factory with the knife, owing to the struggles of the pigs when be-
ing stuck, but that since the humane killer had been adopted there
had been no accident of any kind.

Blood splash is another defect which may occur when pigs are
stuck during violent reﬂex. Some of the small blood vessels and
capillaries get congested with blood and burst, thus causing the
black spots. The connection between sticking during violent reﬂex
and splashing has not been explained, but there is no doubt as to
the fact. I could name bacon curers and pork butchers regularly
using the humane killer, who have never seen blood splash in their
carcases, which shows that the evil is easily avoidable, and that it
is not caused by the shock of shooting, as Mr. Marsh asserts. It is
well-known also that splashing may occur in the ﬂesh of pigs which
have not been shot.

When Mr. Marsh says “ That the meat from shot animals
rapidly decomposes,” and “ That the ﬂesh of shot animals cannot
be properly cured,” he might with equal truth have added “ and
the same results follow when animals have not been shot.” MOst
bacon factories have their bad pigs now and then. Improper
feeding, recent fatigue, chills, and other ailments, harsh treatment
prior to slaughter make bad pigs, I have known pigs after being
‘detrained, hurried to a factory, where the humane killer was being
unwillingly used, and the pigs were slaughtered soon after arrival.
Pigs sometimes come from comfortable farms where they have had
warmth and good treatment, they are exposed for sale in cold and
Wet and draughty markets, and then sent to a factory. All these
things make bad pigs, and we may expect that their ﬂesh may
rapidly decompose, and fail to cure properly, whether or not the
humane killer is used. There is no evidence whatever to show that

8

 

«tr—a

 




 

the ﬂesh of a non-shot pig is less liable to rapid decomposition
and bad curing than the ﬂesh of a shot pig, assuming that equal care
is taken 1n both cases to get best results. . .

Bacon curers who have adopted the humane killer usually follow
one of two methods in bleeding. The pigs are either stuck in the
short interval between shooting and reﬂex, when they are perfectly
still; or when reﬂex has ceased. The ﬁrst method ensures good.
results ; the second is not entirely free from objection in every case,
but, it has some very material and compensating advantages as
compared with non-shooting. The ﬁrst method was recently
demonstrated with success on 20 pigs in succession at a factory
where the pigs are hoisted on a revolving wheel. The pigs were
ﬁrst shackled, and the shackle attached to the wheel; they were
then at once shot whilst standing on three legs, and stuck
before the last leg left the ground. This was done without
retarding the work of the factory in the slightest degree. In
making these statements I am merely giving actual experience.
There is a host of bacon curers, most of them, but not all, doing only

_ a small business, who use the humane killer or the sliding bolt (similar

in effect to‘ the captive bolt) and the testimonials of some of them
ﬁgure in leaﬂets published by the R.S.P.C.A. Nor should it be
imagined that people doing a small business object to making losses

.any less than big ﬁrms. There are big ﬁrms, too, who use the humane

killer. There is a ﬁrm with old established factories at C. and D.
At C. the humane killer has been long used ; at D.“ it is not used.
At any rate this ﬁrm would know if the humane killer meant loss.
Here is the proof that it means no loss. A year or two ago the same
ﬁrm started a factory at E. ; the men at E. asked to be allowed to
use the humane killer, and the request was granted. Would it have
been granted if the use of the humane killer meant loss? Again there
is a Farmer’s Co—operative bacon curing establishment at P. where
the humane killer had been used on all the pigs for more than two
years. I need hardly point out that if the use of the humane killer
meant loss, the farmers would have stopped its use. As a matter of
fact there are certain districts where their bacon is so highly ap—
preciated because of its excellence, that it sells at a higher price than
any other. G. the owner of a bacon factory who has used a humane
killer for several years, made the following statement to a Rural
District Council : “ The adoption of the humane killer has not affec—
ted my proﬁts ; as a matter of fact my business has increased. I
have 700 customers on my books, and, as my factory is in a Village
of only 800 inhabitants, nearly all my trade is elsewhere, in differ-
ent parts of the country, where my competitors send produce on
which the humane killer has not been used. I always get full market’
prices for what I sell. There is more demand for my heads than I can
meet, in spite of the bullet marks.” In another statement G. said,
” During the past ten years- our ﬁrm has voluntarily adopted the

9

 




 

humane method on our pigs. Our killings are between 70 and 100
weekly. Previously we killed our pigs in the usual way ; we have
therefore had considerable experience of both methods. We cure
for keeping as well as for early consumption and the process of cur—
ing varies according to requirements.”

Mr. Marsh tells us that “ experiments have clearly shown that
much larger percentages of blood and serum remain in the ﬂesh of
shot animals than is the case with animals killed by existing
methods.” This might be expected if the pig was unﬁt or if the
humane killers were improperly used. »Whether a little more remains
when the humane method is properly applied I am unable to say, but
if experience counts for anything, we know there cannot be any differ-
ence that matters, as in that case humane killing could not possibly
pay, yet we know that it does. Blood and serum remain in non—shot
pigs as well as in shot ones. The amount varies, according to the
sticking and bleeding of the pig, its previous treatment and feeding
and its condition. When bacon and hams are wanted for particular
purposes, such as for export to hot countries, the carcases are usu-
ally selected and more than ordinary care is given to the curing.

But Mr. Marsh says that a “ potential danger to the public health
lies in the shooting method ” because “ serum is the medium in which
disease germs exist before appearing locally.” But the carcases of

unshot pigs are full of serum. When the carcase is cut up the meat

is always moist, and the moisture is serum. The germs of any
disease from which the pig may have been suffering will be present
in the serum of the unshot pig as in the serum of the shot one.
If Mr. Marsh really wants to know whether danger to the
public health lies in the shooting method, he can easily do so
by enquiring whether it has injured the public health in places
where it has been adopted. Take The Hague, where every animal
killed for food has been stunned by a bullet or a bolt through
the brain for the past twelve years. Has the health of the
Hague and other large Dutch towns suffered in any way by the con—
sumption of humane killed meat ? As far as we know the proof is all
the other way, as humane killing was made compulsory throughout
Holland last year, and in View of previous experience in Holland on
a large scale, and over a considerable period, we may take it that such
a measure would never have been enacted if there were any shadow
of a basis ’for Mr. Marsh’s alarming conjectures. It is no secret that
the permanent medical ofﬁcials of the Ministry of Health, approve
the use of the humane killer on pigs as on other animals, as Without
their sanction the existing model byelaws WOUld not have been
issued. There can be no question as to the impartiality and com-
petence of these ofﬁcials. They are experts in meat inspection, with
constant experience, and one of their particular duties is to consider
the effects of meat in all conditions on public health.

IO

 

 

 




 

 

 

I put it that Mr. Marsh’s gloomy picture of Danish competition
as affected by the use of the humane killer, is very wide of the mark.
Experience shows that factories where the humane killer is regularly
«employed compete on even terms and in the same markets with
factories in which it is not used. Home cured bacon, whether humane
killed or not, sells at a higher price than Danish bacon because it
is a better article, and much preferred and keeps better. It will main-
tain its superiority whether the country adopts the humane killer
universally or only partially. The weak spot in the home industry,
as stated by Mr. Venner in a lecture to the Reading College last
year, is the scarcity of home reared pigs. Danish competition is in
reality a blessing for the community, as it enables many people to eat
bacon who would otherwise have to go without it. Our home sup-
plies are not sufﬁcient to feed the country, hence the need for im—
porting from Denmark and other countries, and we shall continue
importing until we have sufﬁcient pigs of our own. The case of Den-
mark is just the opposite; she enjoys a super—abundance of pigs,
and whilst she has more than she can consume herself, she will send her
surplus abroad, chieﬂy to England, where there is a scarcity of them.
As a well wisher of our bacon industry it seems. to me that those who
attack the humane killer are wasting their energies and I cannot
help thinking that their time would be far more proﬁtably employed
if they concentrated their attention on increasing the supply of
home reared pigs. They may have heard that the city of Glasgow
Corporation has decided to make the use of the humane killer com—
pulsory in the slaughter of the animals in its area. This of course in-
cludes the slaughter of bacon pigs.

T0 SUM UP :

The existing methods of slaughtering pigs and particularly of
preparing them for slaughter by hoisting, inﬂict a large amount of
needless suffering on the animals.

Cruelty on a large scale pervades the country in the slaughter
of the animals by learners and incompetent persons.

The bye-laws of local authorities and the Protection of Animals
.Act are no protection to the animals against these systematic cruelties.

The cruelties can only be prevented by the adoption of the humane
killer.

The right use of the humane killer can readily be learnt by pig
slaughterers.

II

 




Those ﬁrms and persons who use the humane killer on their pigs
compete on even terms and in the same markets with those who do:
not use it.

Blood splash is not due to the shock of shooting and can be
avoided unless the pig is defective. It also occurs in unshot pigs.

There is serum in the carcases of unshot pigs as of shot ones, and
in both cases the germs of any disease from which the pigs may have
been suffering will be present in the serum.

There is no evidence to show that in places where the meat of
shot pigs has been habitually consumed there is any danger to the
health of the community.

Nor is there evidence to show that premature decomposition of
Bacon is due to the proper use of a humane killer. But rapid de-
composition may occur whether the humane killer is used or not,
from “ bad pigs.” hot weather and other causes,

Several accidents have occurred with the knife when slaughter-
ers have had to deal with very restless pigs which have not been shot.
The humane killer avoids such accidents. Although the use of bul—
let ﬁring instruments with moderate care has proved to be safe, such.
risk as attaches to a bullet can be avoided by using a captive bolt pistol.

The idea that a humane killer would ruin the bacon industry
and stimulate Danish competition and the alarmist notion that the
humane killer is a danger to the public health are bogeys.

On these grounds the R.S.P.C.A. will continue to promote the use
of the humane killer on pigs killed for bacon and pork, as on other
animals, by every means in their power.

 

 




