 

 

Vivisection.
. cﬁ‘

‘ AN ADDRESS, GIVEN AT DiEVONSHIRE HOUSE, '

BISHOPSGATE ST EEEEE LONDON,

 




 

 

 

 




 

VIVISECTION.

An Address given at Devonshire House, Bishopsgate Street,
London, by the REV. PHILIP H. WICKSTEED, M.A.

*—

at three things—to affect the general

tone of men’s thoughts and feelings;
to modify their conduct in certain relations
of life, so far as that conduct is subject to
their free choice ,- and, lastly, by means of
legislation, to control and limit that free
choice itself. The second and third of these
purposes will be easily accomplished if We
succeed in the ﬁrst, and it is to. this ex-
clusively that I shall direct my remarks,
leaving the practical application of our prin-
ciples to be dealt with by others.

3

S. I z HE movement against Vivisection aims

 




 

In the ﬁrst place let us remember that all
Whose feelings are in. any degree interested
in our cause can. help in the formation of
public opinion. Here there is room for all;
even those who do not see their way to de-
voting either time o-r money to the cause
may, nevertheless, help. To do so nothing
more is necessary than to make it a point of
conscience to challenge the common assump—
tion, wherever it is made, that the anti‘
vivisectionists are a mere set of cranks or
sentimentalists, deserving of the contempt
and condemnation of right-minded persons.
A quiet challenge of such a statement, though
it consist of nothing more than the declaration
that the speaker himself, being one of them,
naturally cannot acquiese in such a view of
the anti-vivisectors, will act as a powerful
check. Possibly it may startle the speaker
into a reconsideration. of his own position,
and, at any rate, it will arrest that blustering
assertion which gathers strength by being
unopposed, and; by its assumption of un-
disputed authority, frightens timid souls out

4

 




 

of their own better ﬁeelings and makes them
ashamed of their own instincts. Let no one
therefore cheat himself by saying that, While
sympathising with us, he is able to do
nothing; for if he has sympathy and courage
he can do much without devoting either time
or money to the cause.

But if we have room for such as these, we
have need of supporters of a very diﬁerent
type, supporters who are prepared to give
both time and money and to make the
cause of anti-vivisection one of the main
objects of their life’s devotion. Nothing
great can be done without such preponderant,
perhaps almost exclusive devotion on the
part at any rate of some few ; and all such
must expect to be charged with a dispro—
portionate interest in the welfare of animals
amounting to callousness as to the sufferings
of hiuman beings. Let no one be alarmed
or disturbed by such a charge; in the sense
in which it is true it is no reproach; in the
sense in which it would be a reproach it is
entirely untrue. The man who shOuld-

O

 




 

evenly distribute his efforts and sympathies
amongst all laudable purposes in exact pro-
portion to their intrinsic importance, would
fritter away his whole life in inﬁnitesimal
doses. In moral, as in material “ production,”
the principle of the division of labour must
hold. The cause of morality is one,- and he
who is helping any moral cause, is. thereby
helping all moral causes. To be effective we ‘
must concentrate ; and he who is making him—
self felt anywhere along the line of battle is
doing more, not only at the point where he
strikes, but all along the line, than. he would
be doing if, in order to strengthen what he
takes to be the most important point, he left
a postern unguarded. for the invasion of the
enemy. And indeed, if I am. not. gravely
mistaken, we shall not ﬁnd that it is. those
who are engaged in active warfare in the
cause of humanity who complain that we
are withdrawing support from them. In the
ﬁrst place they distinctly feel the solid-
arity of their work and ours ; and in the next
place I should be surprised indeed to hear

6

 

 

 

 

 

 




that they found our hands more slack to help
than those of our opponents. Our supposed
disproportionate intenest in the Welfare of
animals will at most be found to resolve
itself into a greater care for animals, not a
lesser care for humanity than is supposed to
be normal; and accordingly it is not those
who object to humanity being neglected, but
those who object to animals being considered
that bring this charge against us. Are we
not all of us only too familiar with the plea
urged as an excuse for doing nothing, or the
device adopted for getting nothing done, that if
we do anything it ought to lee—something else! '
There is no reason then why we should be
dismayed when we are taxed with taking
a disproportionate interest in the welfare of
animals: but I go much further than this,
and declare with deepest conviction that the
true philosophy and the true scientiﬁc
strength of our movement lies precisely in
our demand that due proportion shall be
observed in the survey of the ﬁeld of human
activity and sympathy. It is not we, but our

7

 

 

 

 




 

opponents that have formed a limited and
one-sided conception. of the problem before
us 3 and if there were any pleasure or proﬁt
in bandying about such epithets, it is they,
not we, that would be open to the charge of
narrow-minded fanaticism and blind con-
centration upon a single aspect of a problem.
which can only be properly dealt with: as a
whole.

As soon as scientiﬁc men take a wide View
of their function our cause will be won, for
in truth. it is not for animals only that we are
pleading, but for humanity also ; and when
science has taken a point of View at once
more lofty and practical, when a more gen-
erous culture has robbed specialising of its
moral and intellectual danger-s, but left it
its efﬁciency as an instrument of research,
then the evil and the folly of the practices
which We denounce and oppose will be seen
in all their nakedness. For the ultimate
object of all who have inﬂuence in the direc-
tion of human life, under ‘ its practical,
intellectual or emotional aspects, must be to

8

 




 

establish the fullest possible harmony between
humanity and the permanent and essential
conditions that. surround and control it. And
this harmony must not be regarded as. resting
on a merely physical relation, but. as being
moral, spiritual and emotional also. Who is
there that does not acknowledge that his own
well-being consists not exclusively in the
absence of physical pain and the presence of
the sources and conditions of physical
pleasure, but also in the moral, spiritual and
emotional relations in which he ﬁnds himself
with human beings, the animate and inani-
mate nature around him, and the all embrac-
ing and all pervading Spirit in whom we live
and have our being? The man. who in advocat-
iin-g any line of supposed progress ﬁnds. himself
attempting to beneﬁt humanity by securing
some degree of physical comfort at the
expense of establishing a spiritual disco-rd
between man and his surroundings, should
surely ask himself whether he is not miscon-
ceiving the essential conditions and objects
of human action. I say attempting for I am

9

 




 

convinced that success is impossible. The
physical and spiritual natures of man are

mutually interdependent, and the attempt .

to secure real and permanent advance in
material well—being Without reference to the
spiritual nature is as vain and futile as the
attempt to build up the spiritual and in-

tellectual life of man in ignorance and ~

deﬁance of the laws of his physical being.

Shall we say then that the natural and
laudable desire of man. to improve- his physical
position and to reduce or eradicate disease
and pain is only to be gratiﬁed by entering,
consciously and permanently, into rela-
tions with the lower animals that involve
systematic and continual torture of them 2:
It is the very apocalypse of despair! It is
to declare the impossibility of any real and
permanent advance along the whole line.
It is the formal assertion. that every victory
where the battle is most urgent (not leads to,
but) is a defeat where it is most important.

A similar line of argument holds good, if
we turn from the plea for the relief of human

10

 

 

 




    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 

suffering, and take the ground of general
advancement of human knowledge 3 for here
again I say that all wisdom consists in the
judicious selection amongst alternatives.
Probably there is no course of action good,
bad or indifferent, which does not bring a
man some experience, some knowledge, some
insight, which in itself considered is advanr.
tageous or desirable; but the price paid may
be the foregoing of other opportunities, or
an accompanying moral deterioration, which
makes such a course of action in the last
degree deplorable. Men. often boast of. what
they call a knowledge of the world which
they could never have gained if they had
kept their lives clean. Let us admit that they
have gained something. But what have they
lost? They have lost. not only their own
innocence, but priceless powers and op-po -
tuni-ties of knowledge and observation with
it. In like manner, I doubt not—it seems
to me unreasonable to doubt,-—that a per-
sistent course of vivisection must lead to
some kind of knowledge which. would not

11

  




 

be otherwise gained. But the question is
whether the direction, of the intellect along
these lines is relatively fruitful, whether it
does not divert the attention of scientiﬁc
men from more or less intellectually fruitful
plots of research, while at the same time
materialising and morally degrading not
only the operators themselves, but the whole
society to which they belong, and which
supports them. Now I cannot think that
one needs to be a specialist in order not only
to feel but intellectually to perceive that
there is more light to be thrown upon human
life and its relations, and a larger synthesis
of human knowledge to be reached, by an
affectionate study of animals in the ﬁeld and
the fold than can ever be revealed by the
vivisector’s dissecting knife.

There is one other point on which I must
touch. We are often told that the whole
agitation is uncalled for as far as England is
concerned, because as a matter of fact English
scientiﬁc men are fully alive to the claims of
humanity, and may be trusted. "So far as

12

 




 

 

this plea is since-re, it appears to me to rest
upon a very grave and fundamental mis-
apprehension. No specialists are to be
trusted as to the ethical issues involved in
their several pursuits, unless controlled and
supported by the free play of a wholesome
public opinion. Statesmen and ﬁnanciers——
we must unfortunately couple them together,
even though we continue to distinguish
between them—cannot be trusted in the
ethical questions involved in diplomacy and-
international policy. The police and magis-
trates cannot be trusted in the ethical
questions that arise in connection with the
administration of crime. I for one should
be sorry to trust either clergymen or lawyers
with respect to the casuistry of their several
professions, were all their proceedings con—
ducted with closed doc-rs. I should be sorry,
in all my own doings, to be relieved from
the pressure of public opinion, and the.
stimulating inﬂuence of publicity. Special-
ists are witnesses with whom we cannot
dispense, but they are the worst of judges

13

    
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  




 

and of juries in their oWn case. If I can
help it then I will no more trust either
medical men or men of science in moral
questions which involve the whole of society,
than I would trust the Executive Govern-
ment without the publication of documents,
and the answering of questions in Parlia-
ment. Suppose it true—and in distinction
from some of my fellow workers in this
cause, I am inclined to! believe it true—that
English investigators are more humane
than their continental confreres, in that case
they ought to welcome the relative vigilance of
public opinion in England as a. sign. that their
countrymen, in general, share their feelings,
as an invaluable protection against unworthy
members of their own fraternity, and most
of all as a protection to themselves against
the deadening inﬂuence of habit and associa-
tion. Those who say that the hands of
Englishmen are clean, in. this respect, and
who wish to keep them clean, ought to be
amongst the ﬁrst to rejoice in our movement,
and to wish it more strength, and vitality.

14

 

t

 




 

 

But alas! it admits of no doubt that the
position of English physiologists is at best
only relatively defensible, which is as much
as to say that it is absolutely indefensible,
and has, from, its own point of view, far more
to hope from concealment than from publicity.

As for the plea that in any case the suﬁer—
ings inflicted upon the animals by vivisectors
constitute a negligible proportion of the
whole sum of the world’s anguish, it rests on
a misconception of the whole principle of
human conduct. The proportion in which
man can aggravate or alleviate the woes of
the world is not the question we are discussv
ing. The crucial point is. whether within
the sphere of his influence, be it wide or
narrow, man is to seek harmony with the
universe by laying a healing hand on all he
touches, or to seek his peace by subjecting
sentient nature, ruthlessly and tyrannically,
to his own physical well-being.

 




Published by the

frienba’ ﬁnti=®ivisection ﬂazociaﬁ'on,
19, South Park Hill, Croydon.

HON. SECS. :-—E. ISABEL REED, T. BEAVEN CLARK.

 

HEADLEY BROTHERS, PRINTERS, LONDON AND ASHFORD, KENT.

 




