habit of mind which sees in the living animal
only material for research.”—(From “ Replies to
circular letter of Friends A. V. Assoc.,” 1900,

p. 25)
DR. HERVOUET, Paris.

“I do not recognise the right to destroy a.
living organism except in self-defence. My
reason for this is nearly a religious one. I con-
demn absolutely vivisection, and not only vivisec-
tion, but hunting, pigeon-shooting, and all killing
which has only pleasure for its end.”———(From
New York Herald, Paris Ed., March 20th, 1904).

DR. C. MATHIEU, Paris.

“While studying medicine in the hospitals I
was at one time charged with the functions of
preparing the physiological experiments. It was
for a short time only, as I could not support the
sense of horror which these vivisections caused
me. I consider them to be useless cruelties. I
never learnt anything from them, and I consider
the campaign against vivisection noble and
humane.”—-—(From A7e'w York Herald, Paris Ed.,
March 20th, 1904).

DR. EDGARD HIRTZ, Paris.
Physician to the Necker Hospital.

“I am decidedly hostile to Vivisection, of
which the vivisectors make an intolerable abuse ;
for they cause wretched dogs, rabbits, and
guinea-pigs to suffer in order to obtain not only
problematical results, but those which are in no
way interesting. Perhaps in historical times
certain experiments may have been justiﬁed,
when made by great physiologists with modera-
tion and humanity. Now it is the contrary;
Vivisection is practised even by students. It is
a useless torture, and a sterile cruelty !”——(From

New York Herald, Paris Ed., March 20th, 1904).

10%,.)

19

 




SOME LAY TESTIMONIES.

BISHOP BARRY. D.D., D.C.L.,
Canon of IVindsor, Late Primate of Australia.

“For humanity at large to seek its own
supposed good at all hazard of wrong-doing
and cruelty to the weaker creatures of God, is
surely of the very essence of selﬁshness. To
hold that the increase of physical comfort, the
removal of physical pain, the prolongation of
physical life, are the supreme objects, for the
sake of which we may demoralize our higher
humanity, is simply a worship of the ﬂesh,
unworthy of a true man, impossible to a true
Christian. To sin for these purposes against
God’s creatures, bound up with ourselves in
the great chain of organic being, and committed
to us as made in His image and having a
delegation of His sovereignty, is a prostitution
of God—given power which is almostasacrilege."
“(Church Congress, Folkestone, 1892).

The Bishop of Durham (Dr. WESTCOTT).

“ If He who made us made all other creatures
also, and if they ﬁnd a place in His Providential
plan, if His tender mercies reach to them, and
this we Christians most certainly beiieve~—then I
ﬁnd it absolutely inconceivable that He should
have so arranged the avenues of knowledge that
we can attain to truths, that it is His will which
we should master, only through the unutterable
agonies of beings which trust in us.”———(Sermon
in Westminster Abbey, August 13th, 1899).

GEORGE MACDONALD, LLD.

“May my God give me grace to prefer a
hundred deaths to a life gained by the suffer-
ings of one simplest creature. He holds his
life as I hold mine, by ﬁnding himself where I
ﬁnd myself. Shall I quiet my heart with the
throbs of another heart? soothe my nerves

80

 




with the agonised tension of a system? live a
few days longer by a century of shrieking
deaths? It were a hellish wrong—a selﬁsh,
hateful, violent injustice. It is true we are
above the creatures, but not to keep them
down; they are for our use and service, but
neither to be trodden under foot of pride, or
misused as ministers, at their worst cost of
suffering, to our inordinate desires of ease.”
—(From “Paul Faber, Surgeon”).

CARDINAL MANNING,

“I take the ﬁrst opportunity that has been
offered to me to renew publicly my ﬁrm deter-
mination, so long as life is granted me, to assist
in putting an end to that which I believe to be a
detestable practice without scientiﬁc result, and
immoral in itself . . . I believe the time has
come, and I only wish we had the power legally,
to prohibit altogether the practice of vivisec-
tion.”——Speech, June 21st, 1882.

JOHN RUSKIN.

“ These scientiﬁc pursuits were now deﬁantly,
provokingly, insultingly separated from the
science of religion; they were all carried on in
deﬁance of what had hitherto been held to be
compassion and pity, and of the great link which
bound together the whole Creation from its
Maker to the lowest creature.”——(Speech at
Oxford, December 9th, 1884).

(Ruskin resigned his chair as Slade Professor of Fine

Art in the University of Oxford as a protest against the
inclusion of vivisection among its methods of teaching).

The Late LORD CHIEF JUSTICE COLERIDGE.

“ What would our Lord have said, what looks
would He have bent upon a chamber ﬁlled with
the ‘ unoffending creatures which He loves,’
dying under torture deliberately and intentionally
inﬂicted. . . . . . A wrong to the creature

.21

 




is, moreover, an insult to its Creator, and a
double insult when we bow to that Creator as a
‘ God of Love,’ whose ‘tender mercies are over
ALL His works.’ To perpetrate cruelty that
good may come is therefore blasphemy.”—-(F0rt-
nightly Review, February, 1882).

JOHN WILLIAM GRAHAM, M.A.,
Owen’s College, (Manchester.

“If I were convinced that Vivisection is
right, it would, in my mind, constitute a difﬁ-
culty in the way of harmonizing the teaching of
Jesus with other facts; Christ and this Torture
are as far apart as the east is from the west.
I can fancy I see a ﬁgure wandering among
the moaning dogs tied in their troughs in the
deserted laboratory in the darkness of the long
hours of night—~the ﬁgure of the sorrowing
Christ.”

 




