, .. ., . _,,__ .. , .‘k 9., 4...,- .-.. , . —..-
n‘m — . ..v;_:-£°2:.L:s-_(»‘§t. “53‘3"“. _, _ .’-_«.‘-?§§.'.-“‘=‘- -P.'~Y",_m'E". 31216:. .23.}; 4.211-).‘4_Li”i_§_.w;&<_—.gx . , A . . _
.V 7, f, ‘ ,. . . _ . , ,1 , I. ._

, , .. ‘ . .. i . , _ ,. . .-

_\ g . ,r gs-

CATS AND BIRDS

“ Is it Necessary to Exterminate Cats in Order to Save the Birds?”

_ This question has been asked, and I have been requested to reply to it.

‘ Cats have been domestic animals, closely associated with'mankind, for

at least three thousand years. To my mind this fact alone answers the
question. _ a

With the exception of a very few birds which men, not cats, have’
exterminated, all the birds we depend upon most to gladden us by their
songs and assist us in getting rid of noxious insects, are plentiful in every
place where there are trees and shrubs enough left for their nesting places. ’\
The exceptions are towns where most of the trees have been cut down, and ,
.other towns that are, particularly infested, not with cats, but with men and
boys who“ are trapping and killing birds at all seasons of the year, and
robbing birds’ nests of their eggs and young. ’ »

I once complained to a police ofﬁcer about such boys, and was told
that it was useless to take boys into court for robbing birds’ nests as the
judges took very little notice of such cases. “Boys will be boys” men

a, say, who remember how they enjoyed robbing birds’ nests in their boy-
hobd, but these same men, if a cat is caught With a bird, are quite ready to
heap all sorts of opprobrious epithets on the cat, calling her “the cruel
cat,” “the wicked cat,” “the sly, thieving cat,” and’even to encourage
stoning and shoOting cats for the same crime that they consider quite excus-
able in boys and men.

So to start with, *I would suggest that for the protection of birds
immensely more should be done in the way of preventing boys from rob-
bing nests, and from owning air guns, and getting licenses to shoot, which
are now given or sold to many boys in their teens. A much closer watch
should be kept for men and boys who go out in the woods to get a few
small birds for their suppers. Occasionally one of these “pot hunters ”,

'gets caught. _A man in Pennsylvania was recently ﬁned one hundred '
,dollars'for shooting ten robins, but this was most unusual. A few more

/

 




 

sentences like that would do more to protect birds than the slaughter of

_ hundreds of cats.
As fai as possible we should p1 event cutting down trees. Many 11101114-

.ands of trees have been cut down Since the gypsy moth began its ravages.

'Doubtless some of this slaughter of trees has been necessary, but it has

been carriedtoo far. There are Certain trees that are troubled very little"
01' not at all/by these insect pests. Why not plant these trees whereOthers

are taken? The red cedar is a tree that inest birds delight in, affording

them shelter not only in sumfner but in winter. ted cedars are hardy, and
are not a tree of high cost. At Pine Ridge, where we have our Home Of
Rest for Horses, we have studied for a number of years how to attract
birds. We have been obliged to cut down a good deal of scrub oak, as
that is particularly infested with the gypsy moth,.but as fast as we cut

" down moth-infested trees 01' shrubs we plant cedars, elderberry bushes,

which grow as large as trees and afford food to many kinds of birds, mul-

be11y trees and grape vines, and we have a great many birds of different

kinds wintei and summer in spite of our caretaker’ s cat. -
Ou1 greatest diﬂiculty in having such biids as song spa1",1ows chick-

‘ adees, robins, and W'oodpecke1s nest on our place is the great number of"

bluejays and crows and squirrels that also insist on living at Pine Ridge,
and that destroy young biids in their nests. We have seen more than once
the bluejays ﬂying off with tiny robins taken from the nest, the paient
birds pursuing with wild cries of dist1e,ss and we have seen, too late to
pievent it, the squirrels destroy a chickadee’s nest in a stump, and a
phoebe’s nest on a beam in the barn cellar where this bird had built her

nest for several yeals in succession.

How to protect the song birds from these enemies 11h1ch are much
more dangerous than cats, excepting by killing them, I know not, but {I do
know from my own and from others’ experiences, that cats can be taught
not to catch birds.

To teach a eat this, it is necessary to begin with the eat when it is
young. Very few people seem to understand cats 01' realize that they soon
learn what certain words mean and can, with a little patience, be taught
the difference between right and wrong. Much- trouble is often taken to
teach a puppy, in‘ fact a dog is not supposed to be good for anything unless
he is “trained” into good behavior, but how seldom anyone takes any
trouble to teach a kitten.

My own cat understood so well the 11 or,ds “naughty,” 01' “no, no,”

that if he started to scratch the furniture or a rug, 01 do anything else

Wiong, he would stOp the minute I spoke to him.
I think most peOple expect more from dogs and cats than they do from

“children. With children they know it must t’be “line upon line, pieCept

upon precept,” but if a dog 01' cat doesn’t understand at once “what is
expected they give thepoor animal up as too stupid for anything.

In that remarkably comprehensive and learned book entitled, “ Mind
in the Lower Animals,” by M. Lauder Lindsay; M. 1)., the author says : "‘ In
the dog, cat, and other animals wrongdoing is accompanied by a perfect

consciousness or conception of the nature of. their behavior. They are quite
, aware of being engaged in actions that will bring inevitable punishment,

which penalty, moreover, they a1e sensible they deserve. Abundant evi-

" dence of the consciousneSS of wrong doing is to be found in the sneaking
. gait, depressed head, tail and ears; tempora1y disappeaiance; efforts at

reconciliation. . . . . The dog and other animals give unquestionable evi-

‘dence that they know what, acc01ding to man’s law to them,"is right and

wrong, and they prefer to do the one 01 the other according to their indi-
viduality and the char'actei of their pievious moral training."
’ If we wish to pr otect bi1ds from cats that we have not had the patience

._ 1 ‘ . ‘ , . ’\ i W I - ~ \ ‘7
\ ‘\ "v ‘ , -., _ 7 7 11- 5 . 1 .- -
’ " ' ' - ‘ \

- . V... . ﬂ.‘ _._ V , ,_
_ A“ _‘ , w (_ ;; , .. .~. [7.5. . ~m Jw» 1;}; a L” ~

‘ 1
-~« ~ ' it}. ~ ‘1 5- , .
' __ t . ,7 -‘ ‘ 1 . . \15 . ' " ~ - 'v ‘ my; '5 . . . 2.1 - 5; , -
y s _ ‘_ f f ‘1‘ ' V/ 1 _> - , ‘ , .. ‘4, (15.4. _‘ kg. > :h‘. 4. 1 , 1‘ J3
‘ - . : n _' ‘ "\ ' r \ .. f“ z - ' »' “ ’» '— ~ ’




‘ l
n
w, AWNFWW _._—...) .,—_«-—4.——4 -_ui._i “ ~

 

\01-7 the capability to teach (some people cannot even teach; their own chil- " if

‘ dren to behave,jmuch' less a dOg or a cat), we should ”observe tWo rules:

' Feed your cat, and don’t force her'to go outside searching for food, but as

this does not always serve the purpose—for well-fed cats, like Well-fed men,

are sometimes hunters—keep the cat in the house nights, so that in the“

early hours of morning the birds seeking. their breakfasts will be safe. A
cat can usually be taught to come into the house at night by giving her a
late supper. Cats need meat or ﬁsh certainly once a day. They cannot be

_ kept f-rom'hunger by giving them milk alone. > Some people have a wire-

enclosed yard for their cats under the trees to be used when birds are
beginning to hatch out their young, and this is an effective way of restrain-
ing cats that cannot be taught to let birds alone.

Those who own a female cat should see that her kittens are destroyed
before their eyes are open, with the exception of one, which should be kept

\ for a time, but as soon as the mother cat can safely do without that one

_, the woods for winter use, and take care of them, also to build bird houses -

it should be humanely put to death, unless a good home can be found.
Since there are, without question, many neglected cats in cities and toWns,
it behooves humane people to do all they can to prevent too great an increase
of cats. If this were generally done the efforts 'to bring about the cruelty
of a license law would soon be abandoned. '

One charge made against cats has been that where there are cats birds
will not go. I have two friends who have large and beautiful grounds
'with many trees. I visit these friends every year. Each of them keeps
two or three cats and is very fond of them. . .The cats are out in the
grounds and all over the place, and yet I have never been to any place
'where I have seen as many birds as I have seen in the trees and gardens
on both of these estates. All kinds of birds are there, and I have frequently
seen a dozen robins hopping about the lawn with a cat lying on the
- terrace or under the trees not far from them. .

The idea that English sparrows are the means of lessening the number
of our native birds-is gradually going by. The English sparrow, like the
cat, has had formidable enemies who have had inﬂuence enough to spread
their opinions all over the land, but observant people are beginning to get
their observations before the public, and it has been shoWn by those whose
word should carry weight that these much-maligned sparrows are eating
injurious insects and weed seeds winter and summer, and live side by side

. with our own sparrows and other birds without showing any more disposi-
tion to ﬁght than the song sparrows, the chippies, the bluebirds. A blue—

_ bird nested and brought out four little ones from a bird house close to ”my

‘bedroom window last summer. The English sparrows were around in the
trees near by and in the grass underneath the bluebirds’ nest, but never
offered to molest the birds as they ﬂew in and out.

. We have at Pine Ridge at all seasons of the year the English sparrow

- feeding and bathing with robins and other small birds, and by far the most

. quarrelsome little bird we have, the bird that drives the English sparrows

and even the juncos off the shelves and the bird table, is our own American _

sparrow-

Let those who are spending time and money to excite prejudice against ‘i
cats and English sparrows turn their energies to educating the public to

plant cedar trees and evergreen shrubs, elderberry bushes and grape vines
fOr the birds, to build bird tables and bird basins in their yards, and to

, . urge school‘ teachers to have the same in every country school yard, which 4 I 7

is a practical way of interesting children in birds, and preserving’the birds.
Efforts should be kept up to get clubs of boys to arrange feeding places in

f and put them up and watch them. Let parents use their inﬂuence with

school teachers whomight, if they" really cared to do so, introducestories ,

\
--¢Aii. .~W"’

. . i f V,
. ‘ . I . ; ' ,
Miaawaaaéﬁ" ‘J ‘ ‘ t

“ "
, ‘55,
.p ,3

 

\ .

 




l "1» «gig;—
.,

 

 

 
 

.~;_gr_:F-v: u 1.. ‘ .,. '1. . ‘ '

about birds frequently in the reading lessons, but above all let us teach
boys that killing anything should never be cOnsidered sport; that it is only
a relic of savagery to enjoy killing any livimg creature. _, ’ ‘

There are women who still wear’feathered ornaments, also a fashion
handed down from the savages. We who love birds and wish to protect
them should never rest until we have made this fashion entirely unpopular.
Two years ago I was stopping at a hotel in St. Augustine when an Indian
brought in for sale a pile of the skins, breasts, and tail feathers of the white
heron. The women ﬂocked around him to purchase, not to blame, and I
aroused a storm of indignation against myself for protesting against the
sale; even the wife of the proprietor of the hotel joining in the chorus.

“It was of more consequence to give the poor Indian a chance to
earn his living, than to save the herons,” one woman said, as she went up
the staircase with one or two corpses in her hands.

It is said there are 5,000,000 licensed hunters in this country. I would
not venture to say how many birds are killed by licensed and unlicensed
hunters, as I am not so ready with statistics as these men who are writing
of the cat as “The Murderer in Your Town,” “The Domestic Cat, De—
stroyer of \Vild Life,” etc., but if 5,000,000 men are licensed to shoot game
for several months every year, and probably many thousands more who
are not licensed are shooting and trapping birds, who can venture to estimate
the number of birds that men and boys destroy?

Back in 1853, Thoreau in his New England Notes repeatedly speaks of
his neighbors going out to snare and to shoot the wood pigeon. In one
entry of his journal he says, “ I hear that Weatherbee caught ninety-two
dozen last week.” Now we are hearing the complaint that the wood pigeon
is entirely exterminated. Was this due to cats? Does this look as if it is
the cat that is the “ destroyer of wild life ” ?

If we could get men and boys to spare the birds; if we could keep air
guns away from boys; if we could lessen the number of sportsmen and the
time allowed for shooting game by one-half; if women would give up all
feathered ornaments, we should have no need to worry about cats or Eng-
lish sparrows.

The idea has been suggested to make of our cemeteries bird preserves.
Those who are trying to protect the birds would do much more‘practical
work for them by encouraging this plan and getting it carried out than by
spending time and money to circulate exaggerated statements about cats
with the hope of bringing about a crusade against them which even the1r
bitterest enemies would deplore if once it got under way. 7

I have worked and constantly am working to protect the birds, but I
am glad to say that I can love and work for the birds without defaming
cats and inciting ill-feeling against them, for I know from personal experi-
ence and from hundreds of testimonials sent me, that we need cats, and we can
protect the birds 'without depriving the world of that useful, necessary
domestic animal, so dear to many hearts, not only for her usefulness, but for
her many lovable qualities. In our homes and in our hearts she has a
place that nothing else could ﬁll. ' i

In the last analysis the friends of birds must know that they are injur-
ing their "own cause by their determined and unreasonable attacks on cats.
It is neither humane nor consistent, for, as James Russell Lowell said,

“That love for one from which there does not spring
Wide love for all is but a worthless thing.”

\ANNA HARRIS SMITH.

' Printed by the Animal Rescue League, 51 Carver Street, Boston. ‘ '
This leaﬂet can be had .at 12 cts. fortwenty copies, or 50 cts. a hundred, postage paid.

4 .-‘/ .7

  
   

 

  

 




 

 

 

WHY WE NEED CATS

[Reprinted from the Boston Transcript and Springﬁeld Republican.]

In the many articles I‘have read in the papers on getting rid of rats I
have failed to see anything about the help that cats have been in city
and country, in houses, stores, factories, barns, chicken yards, in
lessening the number of rats as well as mice. This seems to me to
savor of ingratitude. The omission may be partly due to the de-
termined attempt which has been made by a few prejudiced persons
to make the public believe that cats are of no use, and particularly
that they do not catch rats.

Cats are said not to be of much use as mousers, and of no use in
catching rats. That some cats catch some birds, I do not deny, but
on the very face of it the statements made as to the 1mmense number
they catch 1s all guesswork. If the numbers were as great as have been
stated, considering the fact that cats have been domestic animals for
over 3,000 years, we should not have a bird left in the country where
cats are kept. Cats, they say, are the birds’ greatest enemies, yet
it is well known that over 5,000,000 men and boys are licensed to shoot
every year, and besides these licensed gunners there are hundreds that
are unlicensed, men and boys, the latter with air guns, who go into the
woods and ﬁelds shooting any kind of birds or game they can spy out.

I have been sending out a circular inquiring at stores, factories and
at private houses as to whether the cats they kept catch rats, and I
have had a great number of replies saying that the cat or cats the
writers own are good ratters, and their services are indispensable.

A prominent Boston merchant had a cat which he said 1n so many

words was worth her weight 1n gold. She had saved him thousands of
.dollars’ worth of property a year. He had known her to catch fourteen

large rats in one night.
ﬂ‘T/kex/
i

  




 

 

 

In a house and barn near Boston, where rats and mice ran riot, in
spite of traps, and tWo dogs that occasionally caught a rat, a cat was
introduced last summer. This cat ﬁrst cleared the house of mice, then
going to the barn he has caught rats so large that he had to drag them
down the driveway to the house when he wished to exhibit them to his
mistress. After he has received the praise he feels is his due, he leaves
the rat in the yard and one of the dogs buries it.

I could multiply these instances by the hundreds. If the men and
women who value cats highly for their usefulness in catching rats and
mice should begin writing to your paper, your columns might be ﬁlled
with letters in praise of the cat.

In tenement and lodging houses cats are of such great value that
some lodging house or boarding house owners declare they would have-
to give up their business without their aid. Farmers, almost without
exception, declare cats to be'indispensable, and one woman wrote me
that her chicken house was protected from rats by her cat. Before she
had the cat the rats devoured her chickens.

With the threat of the bubonic plague always before us, can we
afford to ignore an agency that has proved of so much value? When
the Japanese undertook to eliminate the plague from their country one
of their ﬁrst measures was to import a cargo of cats from the United
States. i i

It is an interesting fact that every week we are having complaints
because we have not more cats that we are willing to place in homes
where they are wanted for the purpose of catching rats and mice.

If the Audubon Society and Humane Societies would circulate
widely a simple leaﬂet instructing people who own female cats not to
let all the kittens live and give them away indiscriminately; to keep
their cats in the house nights and in the early morning hours when birds
are getting breakfast for their young; never to desert their cats and
so force them to seek their living in woods and ﬁelds; also to begin
with the kittens and train them, as they would dogs, to let the birds
alone they would do much more for the interests of the birds and of
humane education than to harp on the question Of getting a law on our
statute books which could not be carried out, or even be attempted,
without cruelty, and which would before a year was out be deeply
regretted‘even by those who advocated it.

It is a very serious matter to encourage this attempt to bring the cat
into such bad repute. Some boys, not all, are only too ready to seize
on any excuse for chasing and killing cats, or anything else, and already
in some places where lecturers on birds have been denouncing cats, a
crusade against them has been started, which caused much suffering
to human beings and cruelty to cats. It is a direct set-back to
humane education.

MRs. HUNTINGTON SMITH.

President, Animal Rescue League, Boston, Mass.

Ten copies of this leaﬂet mailed for 4 cents in stamps, or 100 copies for 30 cents,
by Animal-Rescue League, 51 Carver St., Boston, Mass.

‘ ,5, . A ,.- “gm... . -
.L.~_-—_‘.-_..«-,,_._..r_.-......_....‘_,_% u‘...“ '21- .2-.- ,.,._ . , a. _ , . .

T. . J

 




