.  The   Royal Society for - .'
the Protection ofBir‘ds *

2,.

FOUNDED FEBRUARY, 1889

umber Emmi @barter, Enbemher, 1904.

.M V

. :3 -_ ' ! ‘. ' V“
, “$3532.. "20; 2. ~"\;. ~
1 x‘ .7' x
‘ :fu A"?! v. V “‘v
f “3- v 99%.
’ g ‘V‘ V

.I t
" cu‘"

whim

hirtieth Annual Report

JANUARY IST TO DECEMBER 315T, 1920.

07:

W 12% Proceedings of A 7271 ual Meeting,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




@112 Rugged $n£i2tg rm; ﬂy: Enntetﬁnn
nt’ Eirhﬁ.

 

 

THIRTIETH ANNUAL REPORT

January Ist to December 318i, 1920.

 

 

President:
HER GRACE THE DUCHESS OF PORTLAND.

Vice-Presidents :

H.H. THE RANEE MARGARET OF SARAWAK.

HER GRACE THE DUCHESS OF SOMERSET.

HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF ABERCORN.

HIS GRACE THE DUKE 0F BEDFORD, K.G.

HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF RUTLAND, K.G.
WILFRID SCAWEN BLUNT, Esq.

EDWARD NORTH BUXTON, Esq.

Right Hon. VISCOUNT BUXTON, G.C.M.G.

Hon. SIR JOHN COCKBURN, K.G.M.G., M.D.
Right Hon. MARQUESS OF CREWE, K.G.
Brig-Gen. H. PAGE CROFT, C.M.G., M.P.

Right Hon. EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON, G.C.S.I., G.C.I.E.
Right Hon. LORD DESBOROUGH, K.C.V.O.

Hon. Mrs. DREWITT.

Mrs. R. FULLER-MAITLAND.

Right Hon. VISCOUNT GREY OF FALLODEN, K.G.
Mrs. GROVE-GRADY.

The LADY THEODORA GUEST.

Right Hon. VISCOUNT GUILLAMORE.

Miss C. V. HALL.

Sir GEORGE KEKEWICH, K.G.B.

T. HASTINGS LEES,~ Esq., M.A.

The Rev. the Hon. EDWARD LYTTELTON, D.D.
Right Hon. Sir HERBERT MAXWELL, Bart.

EM. the Right Hon. LORD METHUEN, G.C.B., G.C.V.O., C.M.G.
Right Hon. LORD NEWTON.

W. R. OGILVIE-GRANT, Esq.

Sir WILLIAM W. PORTAL, Bart, F.S.A.

The LADY LAURA RIDDING.

Right Hon. Sir RENNELL RODD, G.C.M.G., G.C.V.O.
W. H. ST. QUINTIN, Esq.

Right Hon. EARL OF SELBORNE, K.G.

Right Hon. COUNTESS OF SHAFTESBURY.

Right Hon. COUNTESS OF STAMFORD.

Captain SUCKLING, RN, and Mrs. SUCKLING.
Lieut. G. W. A. TAILBY (IIth Hussars).

Miss E. L. TURNER, F.L.S.

Most Hon. JULIA, MARCHIONESS OF TWEEDDALE.
Right Rev. BISHOP WELLDON, 1',).D.

Mrs. R. W. WILLIAMSON.

 

 

 

 




 

GOUNOIL :

Clzairman—MONTAGU SHARPE, Esq., K.C., D.L., C.A. (Middlesex).

 

H. G. ALEXANDER, Esq.

ERNEST BELL, Esq., M.A.

J. L. BONHOTE, Esq.

Miss CLIFTON.

Hon. Mrs. DREWITT.

Dr. PHILIP GOSSE.

KEITH HENDERSON, Esq.

Hon. Mrs. ARTHUR HENNIKER.
W. H. HUDSON, Esq.

Mrs. F. E. LEMON.

J. R. B. MASEFIELD, Esq., M.A.
E. G. B. MEADE-WALDO, Esq.
Miss L. POLLOCK.

MAURICE R. PORTAL, Esq.

W. P. PYCRAFT, Esq., A.L.S.

A. TREVOR-BATTYE, Esq., M.A., F.L.S.

Hon. Treasurer—The Right Hon. VISCOUNT BUXTON, G.C.M.G.~
Hon. Secretary—FRANK E. LEMON, M.A., LL.B.

Auditors—~Messrs. PRIDEAUX, FRERE, BROWN & (30.,
Chartered Accountants.

 

 

Secretary—Miss L. GARDINER.

 

Bankers—London County Westminster & Parr’s Bank, Ltd.

London Office—23, QUEEN ANNE'S GATE, S.W.1.

OFFICE HOURS: Io to 5, except on Saturdays.

 

 




 

 

 

 

Ebe1Rogal Eocietg for the protection of Sﬁirbs.

 

 

REPORT for the YEAR 1920.

Adopted at the Annual General Meeting,
March 8th, l92l.

 

 

WITH Bird Protection, as with almost every work of progress and
reform, the year 1920 has been to a great extent one of hard- -fought
effort and of small advance. The volcanic fury of the Great War
still chokes the world with lava- streams of unrest and waste, faction
and folly ; and it is hard to see as yet whether they will bury the
good seed beneath cinders and ashes, or become the rich soil for
fruitful harvests.

Two main questions were cited in last year’s Report: (1) the
amendment and consolidation of British laws for Bird Protection,
and (2) the abolition of the trade in skins and plumage of wild birds.
With regard to the former a ﬁrst step has been taken by the appoint-
ment of an Advisory Committee, to which reference will presently
be made. As to the latter all that can be said is that the national
desire has been shown to be stronger than ever, but that the dealers
have proved more potent to defeat it than the British Parliament
to carry out the will of the British people.

THE PLUMAGE BILL.

In view of the fact that the Government showed no signs of
promptly bringing 1n the Bill to Prohibit Importation of. Plumage,
promised by Sir Auckland Geddes (then President of the Board
of Trade), a Bill was brought 1n by Colonel Yate, M. P, and read a
ﬁrst time on February 13th, 1920. It was backed by Mr. Acland,
Viscountess Astor, Mr. Brace, Sir John Butcher, Brig-General
Page Croft (Member of Council, Royal Society for the Protection of
Birds), Lieut.-Commander Dean, Mr. J. F. Green, Major Oscar Guest,
Lieut.—Colonel Arthur Murray, Sir Beville Stanier, and Mr. Cathcart
Wason, representing all parties in the House. On the motion for
Second Reading, the Bill was talked out on April 30th, but was
read a second time on May 15th, by 61 votes to 8. It was one of the
ﬁrst Bills of the session to be committed, being referred to Standing

 




 

 

 

4

Committee C, a general Committee of the House to which some
twenty Members were added, representing the promoters and
opponents of the measure. Mr. E. R. Turton was chairman.
On behalf of the Government Mr. Montagu said that Ministers desired
to see it passed ; as was indeed to be expected, seeing that it was
but a continuation of work to which the Government itself put its
hand in 1914. On every occasion when a division was taken (and
the occasions were many) the majority in support of both principle
and detail, and against every attempt to enfeeble its provisions,
was such that no possible doubt could exist as to the Committee’s
wish and intention.

9

Here, however, the “ no—quorum’ trouble speedily became
menacing. The coincidence of other Committee meetings, the lure
of Ascot, and other events told considerably ; but unquestionably
the real reasons for non-attendance were two : ﬁrst, the enormous
number of amendments, over 100, put down by three opponents
of the measures, and talked round and about, with endless repetition
and unquenchable verbosity, until it became evident that not a
tithe of them could be got through in the session; secondly, the
adoption by the opposition, after the ﬁrst clause was passed, of
further methods (asin 1914), by preventing the formation of a
quorum whenever abstention would effect that object. Members
not over-keen on spending their mornings in the House, probably
felt still less inclined to do so merely to listen to the round of argu-
ments gone through, after the manner of circus horses in the ring,
by Mr. Bartley Denniss, Major Archer—Shee, and Lieut.—Commander
C. Williams. .

After many hours had been wasted throughout the summer,
in waiting for uorums and dissipating them by talk without pro—
gress, it was announced that there was no time to take the remaining
stages of the Bill during the autumn session, and it was abandoned.

It may be and has been urged that the Bill was brought in at
an unwise time, when Government could not help it forward ; but
Bills far more contentious, far less unanimously called for, and also
suffering from no-quorum committees, got home. Although not
introduced at the instance of the R.S.P.B., it was actively supported
by the Society in the Press, by public meetings, and by publications,
and also by urgent communications to members of Committee C
on the eve of every meeting. A reply to a circular issued by the
Feather-trade section of the textile department of the London
Chamber of Commerce, was prepared by Mr. Pycraft and circulated.

The Trustees of the British Museum passed a resolution in
support of the Bill; and appreciative thanks are due to Mr. H. J.
Massingham and his colleagues of the Plumage Bill Groups for
their unceasing efforts to obtain legislation.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

5

OPPOSITION ARGUMENTS.

The opposition to the Bill, in and out of Parliament, consisted
of the old stock asseverations that the Bill would save no birds,
because it would merely drive the trade elsewhere ; that the birds
need no saving because the trade protects and preserves them;
that the Bill was sentimental and fanatical; that it would ruin
the ostrich-feather trade ; that it would throw thousands of British
people out of work ; that farms of all sorts and kinds, described in
all manner of contradictory terms, exist for the supply of smuggled
_“ osprey” feathers plucked frOm caged Egrets in Sind, or of moulted
feathers picked up in Venezuela. The majority of these statements
having been many times proved untrue, the farm theory has been
the mainstay of trade argument, the possibility of thus breeding
Egrets for their plumes being ingeniously kept to the fore in order
to hide the piles of slaughtered birds whose skins in the sale-room
render such apologetics impossible. The ostrich-feather business
was also run hard, until the Ostrich-farmers of South Africa requested
the Government to silence their undesired champion.

It may be added that the demonstration of workers, arranged
by the trade, proved a ﬁasco, showing that the “ thousands ” of
whom so much had been heard were but a few hundreds and con-
sisted in the main of young girls, “ some of them the veriest children,
who,” commented The Draper, “it would be absurd to suggest
could not ﬁnd employment elsewhere.”

EGRET “ FARMS.”

So far as the Bill is concerned the existence of alleged farms
is of no importance, owing to the provisions made for adding birds
to the schedule. That the trade has massacred millions of birds
under the most repulsive and loathsome circumstances, is a fact,
known to naturalists all over the world, that cannot be got away
from. It is for this trade to prove—if it can—that such hideous
slaughter of wild birds exists nowhere to-day; and that, not a
fraction, but the whole, of the Egret plumage comes from “farms ”
near enough to civilisation to be thoroughly and frequentlyinspected
for the prevention of fraud and cruelty. If and when they can prove
this—not by mere statements, since trade statements have been
found worthless lies too many times to make this possible—but by
the evidence of competent and independent investigators, it will
be time to place such plumage upon the schedule. Meantime the
Bill is not a whit the less imperatively needed to stop the slaughter
of Egrets, Herons, Birds of Paradise, Humming Birds, Trogons,
Kingﬁshers, Goura Pigeons, Terns, Marabou Storks, Ibises,
Albatrosses, and all other ﬁnely plumaged birds of the world, a
slaughter which goes on while the trade talk and promise and talk

 




 

 

6

and scheme as ever for delay, delay, DELAY. As Mr. Julian
Huxley wrote in the Times (Apr11 1st, 1920) :———

“First let us make sure that the abominable cruelties and the wanton
disregard of the future which leads to extermination, either entire or over
large territories, are put a stop to for good before We are willing to start on a
new line. Let us make sure of protection before we start cultivation.”

BIRDS OF PARADISE.

A new and ingenious story has been set aﬂoat that Birds of
Paradise—killed in devastating numbers by the trade hunters—
attain their gorgeous plumes only when old and as a sign of senile
decay. That such a tale, in deﬁance of the whole scheme and
practice of Nature (which invariably decrees that fullest beaut
betokens culmination of vigour and strength of animal life) and of
the whole theory of Natural Selection, should have been seriously
debated is odd, seeing that it was brought forward, not by a scientiﬁc
naturalist, but by a professional collector ; but it has clearly been
found wanting, and dropped.

THE WILD BIRDs’ PROTECTION ACTS.

The Report of the Home Ofﬁce Committee upon the existing
Wild Birds" Protection Acts was, as noted in last year’s Annual
Report of this, Society, issued in 1919, together with the Minutes
of Evidence taken.

Considerable anxiety being expressed as to the use to be made of
this Report, and the prospects of amended legislation, the Duke of
Rutland, a Vice-President of the Society, asked a question on the
subject in the House of Lords on April 28th. The Earl of Onslow,
on behalf. of the Government, replied that the Government accepted
in general the proposals made by the Committee and, though unable
to promise a Bill that session, hoped to set up a Central Ornitho-
logical Advisory Committee as recommended by the Report, for the
purpose of advising the authorities with regard to the framing and
administration of Orders made under the Acts. The work of the
Committee was to be somewhat extensive under the recommenda-
tions, including collecting and classifying information, investigation
of the food of birds, and the extension and encouraging of educational
and propagandist work, promotion of “ Bird Day,” etc. ; but
for the present its powers are of a purely advisory character, not
involving expenditure of funds. It was further recommended
that the members should be nominated by the Home Ofﬁce, the
Scottish and Irish Oﬂices, the Departments of Agriculture, and the
Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.

Advisory Committees for England and Scotland were duly
appointed in July last. The English Committee consists of the
Duke of Rutland (Chairman) and representatives of the R.S.P.B.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

7

(Mr. Montagu Sharpe, K.C., Chairman of Council), the Natural
History Museum (Dr. Percy Lowe, Keeper of Ornithology), the
Ministry of Agriculture (Mr. H. G. Maurice, CB), and the British
Ornithologists Union (Mr. E. C. Stuart Baker, Secretary). Possibly
the Home Ofﬁce may think well to strengthen the body by the
addition of a further member or two with direct knowledge of the
working of the law and of the economic value of birds.

In order to secure some measure of uniformity in the Orders
of Counties, and of groups of counties, the R.S.P.B. Council would
be prepared to render every assistance to the Home Ofﬁce if such
should be acceptable. _ I

The Scottish Committee consists of Mr. Hugh S. Gladstone
(Chairman), Dr. Eagle Clarke (Royal Scottish Museum)—who has
for many years acted as adviser to the Scottish Ofﬁce on the subject,
Mr. H. M. Conacher (Board of Agriculture for Scotland), Mr. H. J.

Crowe (Fishery Board for Scotland), Professor J. Arthur Thomson,
and Dr. W. E. Collinge.

BIRD PROTECTION ORDERS.

The Bird Protection Orders issued during the year have dealt
in the main with the better protection of the Lapwing and its eggs.
In May, 1919, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds sent a
circular letter to all County Councils in England and Wales asking
for such protection on account of the great value of the bird in
preserving food-crops from insect—pests. Since then Orders have
been obtained for 25 Counties and 22 County Boroughs, making a
total of 42 Counties and 33 Boroughs where the Lapwing is pro—
tected during the whole year, or where its eggs are protected,
partially or entirely, or where both these methods are adopted
for its preservation.

In July, 1920, the Ministry of Agriculture took up the question,
expressing in its J oumal desire that increased protection should
be afforded the species, and pointing out that the Home Oﬁice
Committee recommended complete protection for nests and eggs,
except—before April 15th—from owners of land, and suggesting this
as the minimum protection which should be given the eggs. The
recommendation is repeated in a revised edition of the Department’s
leaﬂet on the Lapwing. The Norfolk County Council have since
passed a resolution adding this form of protection to their Order.
As the Act of 1894 gives no power to reserve rights to owners in
respect of eggs, but only the power to prohibit the taking of certain
eggs, or eggs in certain areas, it will be interesting to see how the
Council’s application to the Home Ofﬁce fares. If the present law
can be read so as to permit the protection of nests and eggs from
all persons except landlords and tenants of the land, many farmers
and landowners will rejoice.

 




 

 

 

8

ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAW.

What is, however, more needed even than amended legislation
is, that existing laws should be known and enforced. Constant
references in the Press, and letters received every day by the Society,
show that even those who write articles on the subject, and those who
are earnestly concerned in the protection of. birds, have not taken the
trouble to inquire what the law actually is and what can be done
locally under Bird Protection Orders. Thus an immense amount
of misunderstanding is abroad, and constant opportunity for
protecting and preserving birds is lost for want of a little knowledge.
The Society is always ready to supply at a small charge chart-lists
of Birds, showing the eﬁect of the Acts and Order in any County
or County Borough; and copies of the local Order may be had
from the Clerk of the County or Borough Council. The help of the
local police should be sought wherever it appears that the law is
infringed. .

All bird-lovers should also see that local Bird Protection Orders,
in not a few instances neglected, ignored, or even completely shelved
during the years of war, are resuscitated, advertised, posted, and

acted upon in 1921.

RARE BIRDS AND PROTECTED AREAS.

The year 1920 has been marked, not only by active continuance
of the customary work of the Watchers Committee in the areas
where watchers had been employed in previous years, but by new
efforts in the Llandudno district and on the Lancashire coast.
Special inquiries were prosecuted at both places, on behalf of
the Society, by Mr. H. W. Robinson, M.B.O.U. There is a most
interesting colony of birds on Great Orme’s Head, where the danger is,
as usual, from professional egg—collectors and their allies. Neither
this place nor the Little. Orme could be made a sanctuary in the
strict sense of the word, as they are open to the public ; but With the
co—operation of Lord Mostyn and his Agent, the Town Clerk of
Llandudno, and the lighthouse-keepers, both Heads will be well
“ Watched ” in future; and the Society’s notice-boards will be
set up in the Happy Valley and at the entrance to the Marine
Drive round the Great Orme. Considerable difﬁculty was exper-
ienced at Ainsdale owing to the absence of a Bird Protection Order
for the Southport area, but this will be at once remedied ; with the
help of the shooting-tenant and his keeper, hundreds of would~be
egg—thieves were kept off the place, and several successful prosecu—
tions had an excellent effect. By making this area a sanctuary
the chief Lancashire nesting-place of the Lapwing is protected,
and but for such action hordes of men from the towns would clear
off the eggs. Certain rare species also nest there, and their eggs
have been taken in quantities in other years.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

9

Interesting reports from the areas in England, Wales, Scotland,
and the Shetlands and Orkneys, where the Society’s Watchers are.
stationed, have been received, both from the men themselves and
from members of the Watchers’ Committee who, at their own
expense, have visited the areas and investigated results.

Illustrated articles, treating of the rare-r British birds in their
native haunts, often appear in magazines and newspapers; those
who write and those who read these might well consider that were
it not for the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and its
Watchers, there would be far fewer of such interesting species to
write about, while some would undoubtedly have been wiped out
altogether as British breeding species. Subscriptions to the fund
are at present wholly inadequate to meet the expenses, great as is
the amount of voluntary help; and it is felt that many nature-
lovers outside the Society’s members and the few other generous
supporters, whose ﬁnancial assistance enables the work to be carried
on, may well be asked to give it that help and consideration which
its object, and the faithful services of the Watchers, so richly
deserve.

A special report has been issued to subscribers, so that it is
needless to furnish here any lengthy account.

LIGHTHOUSES.

With the return of normal conditions, the bird-rests at the
four equipped Lighthouses are now in regular use ; and at Spurn
Point, in particular, they are more needed than ever, because
stronger lights have been installed and the danger to migrating
birds thus increased. Satisfactory reports continue to be received
of the use made of the perches. Twice a year they have to be
dismantled and re-erected, at the Society’s expense, and if funds
allowed the co—operation of the lighthouse-keepers might be ﬁtly
recognised and encouraged by individual gifts of books, which
would increase their knowledge of bird-life and wile away some
monotonous and trying hours for these valuable servants of the

_ State.

THE COLLECTOR AGAIN.

A new menace to the survival of rare forms of bird life is the
formation of a so-called “ Museum of Comparative Oology ” or
“ World Museum of Birds’ Eggs,” in California. Its declared
purpose, under a cloak of science, is to link together egg—collectors
in all parts of the world and to stimulate the collecting, buying,
and exchanging of eggs, with the object of getting together an
enormous collection of “ variety ” clutches, and the prospect of so
infecting private collectors all the world over that this foolish
craze “ whether followed as a fad, a pursuit, or a passion,” may

 




 

 

~10

“ become at last a major avocation.” In this country'the collecting
mania is an ever-present danger to the existence of every rare bird.
The Society has to spend large sums annually to circumvent the
raids of the private hoarder and his trading brother ; and its efforts
are hampered in every direction by a network of chicanery which
the law and the ofﬁcersof the law are rarely strong enough to break.
The illegally killed bird and the illegally taken egg are greedily
added to their cabinets by men whose professions might make
them pause before the commission of offences far less contemptible
in method of operation and far less heinous as sins against the
community. It may be hoped that members of British Natural
History and Ornithological Societies will answer in plain language—
as several leading societies have already done—the bland invitation
sent them to back up Santa Barbara oologists.

SONG-BIRDS AS FOOD.

The supply of small singing—birds as gastronomic tit-bits in
poulterers’ shops and the provision departments of large Stores,
has again come into prominence through the increased exhibition
of Skylarks and continued attempts to introduce Thrushesand other
species. The custom of serving up Larks at City dinners and smart
functions has long deprived England of her justiﬁcation for protest
against the eating of Robins and Warblers by French and Italians,
and undoubtedly, unless a strong effort is made to suppress the whole
thing, it will not be long before Robins and Warblers grace the
tables of British Caligulas. On the other hand practical effort
would speedily have its effect. If every Fellow, Member and
Associate of the Society will refuse to deal with any poulterer,
or with the provision department of any Store, offering Larks for sale,
those Stores and those poulterers will ﬁnd that it is not a paying
business to provide them. '

Perhaps associated with the Lark-catching business is an attempt
to label the bird destructive to the farmer, led by members of one
County Council who moved to have it taken oﬁ the schedule of
protected species to which it was specially added by the Act of 1881.
The conclusions arrived at by careful and scientiﬁc observers and
investigators have, however, settled the matter of the Lark’s utility
as one of the guardians of the crops, “ with the balance of utility
largely in its favour.”

BIRD-AND-TREE CHALLENGE SHIELD COMPETITIONS.

The Society’s work in the Elementary Schools is not only for the
beneﬁt of the children of to-day but for that of the men and women
of to—morrow. While efforts are being made on every hand to

 

 

 




 

11

tempt workers to the land and to make the countryside a more
attractive place for intelligent dwellers, few things can be more
helpful than giving rural residents a genuine interest in the country
itself. Study of the economic relation of birds to agriculture and
horticulture was so hopelessly neglected in the past that little but
a mass of prejudice, based on superﬁcial observation and venerable
fables, remained in much of the countryside not so many years ago.
Even to-day, when investigators have discovered that all our
common birds (with the possible exception of three or four super-
abundant species) are valuable allies of man, the village child
seldom advances further on the faith of the village grandfathers
than to admit that some one species “ does less harm than other
birds.” To further practical knowledge of wild life, interwoven
with delight in Nature itself, must be regarded as among the most
important developments of modern education. '

The Society have to thank directors of education and numerous
teachers for most sympathetic co—operation, and only regret that,
for lack of funds and staff, it is not possible to extend the Com-
petition to every county in the kingdom. .

Appended is a list of the chief awards. Some of the papers
showed remarkable powers of observation and expression, with
inﬁnite patience and care in outdoor watching and note-taking.
More than one school has formed a bird club for natural history
study and active protection of birds and nests; feeling against
bird-catching, wanton destruction,and cruelty grows apace wherever
genuine interest is thus inculcated ; and no one knowing the country
can say that such a movement is not called for. Interest in the
character and growth of Trees, and the national importance of Tree-
planting, is also more than ever a national need.

. INTER-COUNTY COMPETITION.
Challenge Shield : Wereham School, Norfolk.
Second: Ridge School, Hampshire.

Third : Victoria C. School, . VVellingborough, Northants; and
Newburgh, Lancashire.

COUNTY COMPETITIONS.

BUOKINGHAMSHIRE.-——Challenge Shield : Ellesborough Council
School (3rd year). Certificates of Excellence : Coleshill C.E.;
Cuddington C.E. ; Pitstone C. Highly Commended : Haversham
C.E.; Sherington.

CUMBERLAND.-—Challenge Shield .' St. John’s Girls’ School,
Keswick (2nd year). Certificates .' Buttermere ; Cargo ; Nether
Denton C. ; Seaton Camerton.

(HAMPSHIRE—Challenge Shield : Ridge School. Second Prize .-
The Holme School, Headley. Certificates : Boscombe Girls’ School ;

 




 

 

 

 

 

12

Barton Stacey; Headbourne Worthy; Hinton Ampner. Highly
Commended : St. John’s Girl’s, Boscombe; Brooke, I.W.; Wickham.

LANCASHIRE.—Challenge Shield .' N ewburgh C.E. School (2nd
year). Second Prize .' Cartmel Fell. Third Prize .' Withnell U.M.
Certificates .' Adlington (St. Paul’s) ; Bolton-le-Sands R.C. ; Buck-
hurst, Walmersley ; Finsthwaite C.E. ; Parbold Douglas ; Preston
(St. Stephen’s) ; Staveley-in-Cartmel; Goosnargh Whitechapel.
Highly Commended : Atherton C.E. ; Ashton-in-Makerﬁeld (Park
Lane); Barton Newsham R.C.; Brow Edge C.; Blawith P.;
Mawdesley R.C. ; High VVray ; Salesbury ; Scarisbrick Township ;
Skelwith (Brathay District); Walmsley C.E. Commended :
Claughton R.C.; Grassendale (Victoria); Hollins Green C.E.;
Lathom Park (Omnskirk) ; Priest Hutton.

N manna—Challenge Shield : Wereham School. Second
Prize : N ecton. Certificates .' Beechamwell; Bracon Ash; Old
Catton; Mattishall; Postwick; St. Faiths; Sporle; Thetford;
Wickmere; Wroxham. Highly Commended : Castle Rising; Colby
and Felmingham ; Elsing ; Feltwell C.E. ; Feltwell Fen; Garve-
stone; Hempnall; Thompson; Toftwood; Topcroft; Whinbergh.
Commended : -Burnham Deepdale; East Ruston; Fundenhall;
Long Stratton ;‘ South Walsham; Wiggenhall St. Germans;
Wolferton ; Worstead. ,.

N ORTHAMPTONSHIRE.—Challenge Shield : Victoria Council
School, WellingbOrough. Second Prize : Middleton Cheney. Third
Prize : All Saints’ BOys, Wellingborough. Certificates : Croughton ;
Culworth ; Maidford ; Mears Ashby ; Silverstone; Welton ;
Wellingborough (All Saints’ Girls) ; Hemington ; Watford. Highly
Commended : Clopton ; Greatworth ; Harlestone ; Polebrooke ;
Rockingham ; Sudborough. Commended : Flore ; Grendon ;
Ashby St. Ledgers ; Byﬁeld.

SOMERSET.——Challenge Shield: Withheld. Certificates .' Ched-
ington; North Perrott ; Winsham. Highly Commended : Norton
Fitzwarren.

WARWICKSHIRE.—Challenge Shield: Mancetter C.E. School.
Second Prize : Rowington. Certificates: Glascote Girls’; Great
Alne C.; Minworth C.; Solihull Girls’ ; Temple Grafton. Highly
Commended .' Astley C.E. ; Great Alne (II).

OPEN CLAss.———First Prize : Slindon C.E. (Sussex). Certificates :
Felixstowe Ferry (E. Suffolk) ; Hinton Waldrist (Berkshire);
Totley (Derbyshire). Highly Commended : Chamey, Bouverie-
Pusey (Berks.) ; Copdock C. (E. Suﬂolk) ; Gazeley V. (W. Suﬁolk) ;
Girls’ Hospital School, Lakenham (Norfolk); Portland Easton C.
(Dorset). Commended .' Merchant Taylors, Ashwell (Herts) ;
Kedington (W. Suffolk) ; W altham St. Lawrence (Berks.).

“ TAILBY ” OWL PRIZES.——(l) Christina Hannah. (Staveley-in-
Cartmel) ; (2) Sydney Woodward (Rowington) ; (3) Muriel Hamblin
(Hinton Waldrist); H .C. .' Edith Blood (Withnell), W. Thornley
(Adlington St. Paul’s); Ethel Hatch (Coleshill); Isabel Darwell
(Ashton-in-Makerﬁeld), Geoffrey Moore (Mattishall).

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

13

The Judges were: Mr. Montagu Sharpe, K.C., Miss Clifton,
Mrs. Frederick Dawson, Mr. G. A. Freeman, B.Sc., Mr. J. R. B.
Maseﬁeld, Miss Pollock, Rev. W. A. Shaw, Rev. Julian Tuck, and
Miss Gardiner (Secretary).

THE BOY SCOU'rs.

Cordial relations exist between the Society and the Chief Scout
and Lady Baden Powell, as regards the training of Scouts and
Guides in observation and protection of wild life. It is hoped to
organise a Competition for a Scouts’ Challenge Shield; and the
details of the.“ Bird Wardens ” badge have had the careful con-
sideration of specially qualiﬁed authorities connected with the
Society, by request of the Boy Scouts’ Association.

PUBLICATIONS AND LECTURES.

A considerably increased number of lectures has been given
during the year, illustrated by the Society’s lantern slides in the
majority of cases; and new slides have been added. Lectures
to Boy Scouts, Girl Guides, and Women’s Institutes have been a
special feature, the last-named dealing mainly with the Plumage
question but also with the economic value of birds on the land.
In cordially thanking the voluntary lecturers who give valuable
aid in this way, the Society would be glad to welcome the names of
others who would lecture in their own neighbourhoods on any branch
of Bird Protection work; andwould also mention that monetary
help in this campaign is. needed for general expenses, fares, and
slides.

Bird Notes and News has entered on its ninth volume and
completed its seventeenth year of publication. Its value as a record
of the movement and of progress is appreciated in an encouraging
manner not only in this country but by societies and workers on
the Continent and OVerseas. Other publications have included
fresh issues of “ The Plumage Trade in a Nutshell,” “ Milestones,”
“Dress in Relation to Animal Life,” “A B C of Common Birds,”
and “ Bird-Ally ” post cards. The subject of the Society’s Christ-
mas Card was that much-persecuted bird, the Kingﬁsher—~—killed
in England by anglers and for its beauty placed in a glass hearse, and
in enormous numbers in tropical countries for plume—trade proﬁts.
”The painting was by Mr. Roland Green, of the Ruskin Studio, and,
judging by the sale, met with the admiration it deserved. Through
the kindness of the Ulster S.P.C.A., the Society was enabled to
exhibit at the Royal Ulster Agricultural Show.

NESTING-BOXES.

The supply of nesting-boxes and of food-stands, boxes and trays
has been continued, the former including both the “ Tree-hole ”

 




 

 

 

 

14

(or Berlepsch) pattern, and the almost equally popular “ Walden,”
all being made in England.

COUNCIL AND MEMBERSHIP.

The Society’s Vice-Presidents have received two additions
during the year, namely, the Countess of Shaftesbury and Sir William
Portal, Bart., F.S.A. ; but it has lost two powerful friends in
Viscountess Galway, Vice—President since 1912, and Canon Rawnsley,
who was one of the oldest champions of the movement, joining the
Society in 1893, and becoming a member of the ﬁrst Council in 1904,
and a Vice—President in 1912. Canon Rawnsley’s vigorous speech
on the Plumage question at the Annual Meeting last March will be
fresh in the memory of those who heard it. He was keenly interested
in the Bird and Tree scheme, and gave the beautiful Cumberland
Challenge Shield, which was designed by the late Mrs. Rawnsley.

To the Council. have been added Mr. W. P. Pycraft, Mr. Maurice
Portal, and Dr. Philip Gosse; and Mr. J. L. Bonhote has been
re-elected to it on his return from Egypt. The new Fellows elected
number 63, including one Life Fellow; and the new Members 184:,
including three Life Members. New Hon. Secretaries appointed
are : Farnham, Mr. R. S. Moreau, and, on his unavoidable resigna-
tion through leaving England for Egypt, Miss Esme Tinne (Mr.
Moreau, however, continues to represent the Society); Welling-
borough, Miss Kathleen Jacques ; Oxford, Mrs. Gifford-Ambler ;
Carlisle, Miss Coulson; Southampton, Miss Lettice Macnaghten;
N. Oxfordshire, Mrs. Barne ; Birmingham, Mr. W. B. Urwin. The
Society has again to acknowledge its indebtedness for the invaluable
assistance of its active Hon. Secretaries ; the largest number of new
Members has to be placed this year to the credit of Miss E. Tinne.

IN GREATER BRITAIN.

In Canada the premature and sudden death of Dr. Gordon
Hewitt, Entomologist and Consulting Zoologist to the Dominion
Government, is a grievous loss to the cause of Bird Protection,
and to the study of economic ornithology throughout the Empire.
Since going out from Manchester to Ottawa in 1909 he had in-
augurated important national schemes in nature-reserves, and the
historic International Treaty with the USA. for protecting migratory
birds owed much to the ability and energy with which he promoted
it on the Canadian side. Although only 35 years of age he had
done unforgettable service to the cause on both sides of the Atlantic,
and shortly before his death had ﬁnished a work on “ The Con-
servation of Wild Life in Canada.”

. .The movement continues to be ably pressed forward by the-
Ministry of the Interior; and the leaﬂets in English and French

 

 

 




A. rVr_vni r
w!

 

 

15

issued by the Dominion Parks Branch may well arouse the wonder
of English people that nothing of this sort can be done by our own
well-staffed Departments.

In Australia the various Societies continue their efforts. In
South Africa Bird-Protection has, among other inﬂuential friends,
Professor Ernest Warren and Mr. R. Godfrey, whose articles on
“ South African Birds of Economic Value” have been for some
time a feature of the attractive monthly South African Gardening
and Country Life ; and Mr. F. W. FitzSimons, of the Port Elizabeth
Museum, who on his visit to Europe this year was able to make
known the real attitude of South African ostrich-farmers towards
the Plumage Bill.

OTHER COUNTRIES.

The great Audubon Association of the United States has this
year lost its founder and father, Mr. William Dutcher, whose name
will ever be deeply honoured by Bird-Protectors. He was the
ﬁrst President of the Association, and it is sufﬁcient tribute to his
ﬁne personality to say that no one proposed or would have tolerated
a change in that ofﬁce, although for ten years paralysis had deprived
him of power to speak or write. His successor is Mr. T. Gilbert
Pearson, who for many years has been the vigorous and active
Secretary of the Association. Mr. Pearson was one of the early
writers to make known the facts as to the horrible slaughter of
nesting Egrets in Florida for the plume trade; and it is worth noting
that so lately as the spring of 1920 the United States Biological
Survey had to commission special wardens to break up the illegal
trafﬁc in “ ospreys ” from that State and to get the trade agents
apprehended, although the surviving Egret colonies are constantly
guarded and watched. Bird-Lore, edited by Dr. Frank M. Chapman,
and Natural History, the Journal of the American Museum of
Natural History, afford abundant information and stimulus to lovers
and protectors of Nature in the States ; and to these publications
was added, in 1920, Vol. 3 of the periodical Statement issued by the
Permanent Wild Life Protection Fund, whose inception and far-
reaching activities are due to the untiring vigilance of Dr. W. T.
Hornaday. The volume includes not only campaign reports from
the States, but accounts of Bird—Protection in Egypt and France,

,_ with particulars of the ﬁnancial help afforded to French workers.

A facsimile is given also of the diploma presented to Dr. Hornaday
by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.

In France, Denmark, Holland, Belgium, Spain, Italy, Argentina
and Brazil, bird-lovers continue in sympathetic communication
with the Society ; and it is peculiarly interesting to receive letters
on the subject from Lithuania and from Russia. M. Louis Ternier,

 




 

 

 

 

 

16

an old friend of the R.S.P.B., has succeeded the late M. Magaud
d’Aubusson as President of the Ligue Francaise pour la Protection
des Oiseaux.

FINANCES.

As in several past years, the Society succeeds in keeping a small
balance on the right side in its general accounts by dint of rigid
economy and by most regretfully refraining from much needed
work it would otherwise gladly undertake. The Watchers’ Fund
ends the year heavily in debt; yearly expenditure at the Light-
houses has to be defrayed from capital; and no new School com-
petitions have been arranged. Although the Society has to thank
many constant and generous supporters, and has enrolled a large
accession of Fellows and Members, increased rates for postage, print—
ing, etc., are a heavy burden. Two small legacies have been received,
but a regrettably small amount accrues to the funds from this source ;
While the Associates’ minimum subscription, though a welcome sign
of co-operation and sympathy, adds little or nothing to its resources.

OBITUARY.

The death of two Hon. Fellows of the Society—Dr. Gordon
Hewitt in February and Mr. William Dutcher in July—has been
referred to. The Society has also to deplore the loss of Canon
Rawnsley, one of its oldest supporters, Mr. Briton Riviere, R.A.,
Lady Wantage, Lady Acland, Sir Alexander Baird, Sir J. A. Brooke,
Lord Justice Cozens-Hardy, Colonel Alfred Bibby, Miss Rhoda
Broughton, Mr. H. M. Gray, Miss Blanche Hartley, Mrs. Johnston,
Mr. Harold Messel, Mrs. Peirse-Duncombe, Mrs. Stuart, Miss Under-
wood, Rev. 0. Warren, Mrs. Waterhouse, Miss Laura Evans, Mrs.
Lawley Parker, Hon. Mrs. Sydney Meade, Miss Shadwell, Mr. C. A.
Keith—Falconer, and many other members and sympathisers in
Great Britain, and, in Spain, Seﬁor Emili Tarré, of Barcelona.

MON TAGU SHARPE,
Chairman of Council.

FRANK E. LEMON,
Hon. Secretary.
February 20th, 1921.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

4 4444kvﬁg/44, v_444‘ L__—————d'.——

17

SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTS.

(For Statement of Receipts and Payments of General Account,

see next page.)
WATCHERS’ ACCOUNT.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RECEIPTS. EXPENDITURE.
£ s. (1. £ 3. d.
Receipts, 1920 163 0 0 -1st Jan., Balance due 297 17 6
Dividends . . 15 0 0 Expenditure, 1920 306 16 10
Transfer 150 0 0
3lst Dec., Balance due ,, . 276 14 4
£604 14 4 £604 14 4
P.”— m
LIGHTHOUSES ACCOUNT.
, £ 3. (1. £ 8. (1.
let Jan., Balance 215 11 5 Expenditure, 1920 31 16 10
Receipts, 1920 3 13 6 Bal., Dec. 31st., 1920 187 8 1
£219 4 11 l ’ \ £219 4 11
NESTING-BOX ACCOUNT.
£ 8. 6.. £ s. d.
lst Jan., Balance . . 18 16 5 Expenditure, 1920 198 7 8
Receipts, 1920 166 9 10 Bal., 31st Dec., 1920 15 18 7
Transfer 29 0 0
£214 6 3 £214 6 3
PLUMAGE CAMPAIGN ACCOUNT. .
£ 3. (1. £ 8. (1.
Balance, Jan. lst, 1920 228 5 8 Expenditure, 1920 198 18 8
Receipts, 1920 . 127 4 11 Bal., 31st Dec., 1920 156 11 11
£355 10 7 £355 10 7
SUMMARY OF BALANCES.
£ 8. d. ' £ 8. d.
Nesting-Box Account 15 18 7 1 Watchers’ Account 276 14 4
Lighthouses Account 187 8 . 1 1 Cash Balances 178 5 11
General Account . . 95 1 8
Plumage Campaign 156 11 11
£455 0 3 , £455 0 3

10th February, 1921.

 

Examined and found correct,
PRIDEAUX, FRERE, BROWN & 00.,

___..______———r
”

12, Old Square, Lincoln’s Inn,

Chartered Accountants.

 




 

 

 

18

THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR

 

 

Dr. Statement of Receipts and Payments for
RECEIPTS.
1919. 1920.
£ s. (1. £ 8. (1. £ 8. d
To Subscriptions—Fellows . . . . 463 18 4 474 7 6
,, Members . . . . 331 16 6 368 5 3
,, Associates .. . . 65 17 9 67 6 3
General Donations . . . . . . 82 4 4 58 7 9
Proceeds from Lectures, etc. .. 7 7 6 13 10 7
Sale of Publications . . . . . . 100 15 3 71 18 O
,, Christmas and Post Cards* 93 1 1 136 17 10
,, Bird Notes and News . . 7 4 9 10 4 6
,, Cadet Cards .. . .. 5 13 10 8 7 1
Dividends on Consols .. .. 33 15 0 33 15 0
Interest on Local Loans .. . . 22 19 8 22 19 8
War Loan . . . . . . . . 53 16 2 53 16 2
Bonds and Funded Loan . . ~ . . 76 4 7 “‘53 4 0
Total Ordinary Receipts . . . . 1,344 14 9 1,372 19 7
Legacies . . . . . . . . 10 0 0 153 17 6
Balance, 1st January .. .. 1.20 1 6 112 10 0
£1,474 16 3 £1,639 7 1

 

 

Examined and found correct,
PRIDEAUX, FRERE, BROWN & CO.,
12, Old Square, Lincoln’s Inn,

Chartered Accountants.
10th February, 1921.

* Includes amounts for postage.
. ** Tax to be claimed.
FRANK E. LEMON, BUXTON,
Hon. Sec. Hon. Treas.

 

 




 

 

19

THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS.
the year ended 313i December, 1920. Or.

 

‘ PAYMENTS.
1919. 1920.

£ s.d. £ s.d. £ s.d.
By Balance from last Account

Printing Annual Reports and Pro-

 

 

 

ceedings . . . 101 14 0 123 8 6
Annual Meeting and Conference . . 4 12 0 9 0 0
Printing, General and Leaﬂets . . 249 10 6 120 17 0
,, Christmas and Post Cards 66 18 6 89 13 6
,, Bird Notes and News . . 120 12 8 154 6 9
Stationery and Ofﬁce Requisites . . 64 10 6 104 14 3
Postage, Correspondence and Reports 112 12 10 128 1 5
Sundries (Telephone, Press Cuttings,
Insurance, and Advertisements)” 31 19 5 25 7 6
Rent of Ofﬁce and Cleaning . . 123 13 11 97 7 6
Furniture . . . . 9 18 0
Salaries and Clerical Assistance . . 373 2 10 427 4 4
Audit Fee . . . 10 10 0 14 14 O
Lantern Slides, Lectures and Travelling 17 0 6 14 17 9
Bird- and Tree Day . . . . '. . 55 10 7 55 12 11
Total Ordinary Payments . . 1,342 6 3 1,365 5 5
Transfer to Nesting-Box Account . . 29 0 0
Transfer to Watchers’ Fund . . 150. 0 0
Investment in 4% Funding Loan . . 20 0 0
Balance 31st December . . . . 112 10 0 , 95 1 8
£1,474 16 3 £1,639 7 1
Investments——- £ s. d.
Consols, 2% per cent. Stock . . . . 1,350 10 2
Local Loans, 3 per cent. Stock . . . . 766 9 0
War Loan 5 per cent. . . . . . . 1,076 6 3
National War Bonds 1927 . . . . . 300 0 0
Funding Loan 4% ' . . . . . . 1,900 O 0

 




 

 

 

 

Proceedings at the Annual Meeting
of the Royal Society for the
Protection of Birds.

 

 

1921.

 

 

THE Thirtieth Annual Meeting of the Society was held on March
8th, 1921, at the MiddleseX Guildhall, Westminster, by kind
permission of the County Council. The Chair was taken by the
Right Hon. Earl Buxton, G.C.M.G., Hon. Treasurer, in the absence,
through illness, of Field-Marshal Lord Methuen, G.C.B., G.C.V.O.,
C.M.G. (Vice—President). Supporting the Chairman were : Colonel
Sir Henry MacMahon, G.C.M.G., K.C.I.E., F.R.G.S., Sir Sidney
Harmer, D.Sc., F.R.S., Rev. Dr. Archibald Fleming, Mr. Meade-
Waldo, Mr. A. Trevor-Battye, and Mr. F. E. Lemon (Hon. Secretary);
and among those also present were: Sir William Portal, Bart.,
F.S.A., Hon. Mrs. Drewitt, Mrs. Grove Grady, Miss Hall (Vice-
Presidents); Mr. J. L. Bonhote, Miss Clifton, Dr. Philip Gosse,
Hon. Mrs. Henniker, Mrs. F. E. Lemon, Mr. W. P. Pycraft and
Miss E. L. Turner (Members of the Council) ; Hon. H. M. Allanson-
Winn, Mrs. F. E. Baines, Mrs. Fleming Baxter, Miss M. Best, Mr.
Cosmo Blore, Mr. T. H. Brinton, Mr. H. Candler, Mrs. S. Charles,
Mrs. Stracey Clitherow, Mrs. Edward Clodd, Mrs. Dixon—Davies,
Dr. Drewitt, Miss Drummond, Mrs. Drummond, Misses England,
Mr. H. A. Freeman, Miss I. M. French, Mrs. Oliver Frick, Miss L.
Gardiner (Secretary), Mrs. Geldart, Rev. H. S. Gladstone, Mr.
Hugh S. Gladstone, Mr. W. E. Gilmore, Captain H. M. S. Good-
liﬁe, Mr. Roland Green, Sir George Greenwood, Miss P. Hall,
Mr. J. Rudge Harding, Mr. T. Edwin Harvey, Mr. G. W. Hayes,
Miss E. L. Haywood, Mr. R. E. Heath, Miss Herchmer, Mrs.
E. C. P. Hull, Mrs. Hutton, Mr. Holbrook Jackson, Mr. Raymond
de Jersey, Hon. Mrs. C. Kennard, Miss Kennard, Mrs. Hamilton
Leigh, Miss A. S. Lemon, Dr. Percy Lowe, Misses Lush, Mr. A.
Holte Macpherson, Mrs. H. J. Massingham, Mr. T. G. Matthews,
Mr. Allan H. P. Noble, Miss Esmé Pigott, Mrs. Godfrey Power, Miss
L. Relfe, Mr. F. Redmond, Miss S. L. Richards, Miss E. Rolleston,
Mrs. Sainthill, Mrs. T. Schneider, Miss G. Stevenson, Mrs. G. Skilton,

 

., L. L.#r,_,.$ L




21

Mr. E. F. Turner, Mr. and Mrs. Desborough Walford, Mrs. Walking-
ton, Mr. H. H. Wardle, Mrs. H. Boyd Watt, Miss S. Wilberforce,
Mr. F. Wood, and many others, the room being full. Mr. Bartley
Denniss, M.P., representing the Feather-trade, asked, and was
granted, admission.

The President of the Society, the Duchess of Portland, wrote :—

“ I am very sorry indeed that I shall be in Scotland on the day appointed
for the Annual Meeting of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, and
I consequently trouble you with this letter in order to ask you to be so good
as to present to the meeting my apologies for non-attendance. At the same
time I would take the opportunity of assuring the members of my continued
sympathy with the Society’s work and my constantly deepening conviction
of the importance of its propaganda.

“ I have recently been shown a letter (written by the one and only Inspector
whom funds at present allow the Society to employ) in which a very dismal
account is given of the bird-dealers’ market in Bethnal Green. The writer
states that vast numbers of chafﬁnches and other small birds are there conﬁned
in covered cages not much larger than a mouse-trap. It distressed me very
much to read this letter, and I hope the Society may be able to take some
action which may result in the introduction of legislation for the purpose of
making it compulsory that if birds are kept in cages, those cages must be
provided with adequate space, air, and light.

“ I hope that the meeting may be a very successful one and that one of its
results may be the accession of a large number of subscribing members so that
funds for extended propaganda and preventive work may be available.”

Field-Marshal Lord Methuen wrote 1——

“ I cannot tell you how vexed I am to fail you. I am seldom ill, and
can never remember failing a public engagement, but I have had to throw
over the Levee and two other engagements. I—had longed to say how much
Malta owes to the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds for what it has
done for the birds there. The manner in which they suffered from wanton
shooting, and from conﬁnement in small cages exhibited for sale, was apparent
to all strangers. There was much opposition to the Bill introduced by the
Government, but it was passed, and the result reached my best expectations.
As I said in a speech, in words to the following effect : ‘ God has given Malta
two of the greatest blessings, namely, beautiful ﬂowers and lovely birds ; let
us appreciate them both.’ ”

The Chairman of the Council, Mr. Montagu Sharpe, K.C., was
likewise, unfortunately, unable to be present owing to an attack
of inﬂuenza, this being the ﬁrst time he has been absent from an
Annual Meeting of the Society for years.

Letters of regret at inability to attend were also received from
Viscount Grey of Falloden, K.G. (Vice—President), who sent the
following letter :—

“ I am very sorry that absence from London prevents me from being
present at the meeting of the Society for the Protection of Birds. I am in full
sympathy with its object and work. An interest in the life of wild birds and
the observation of them is one of the most wholesome and satisfying of human
pleasures to those who are fortunate enough to have an inclination for it.
And the preservation of all but the very few species that are really injurious
and sufﬁciently numerous to do mischief is a most desirable object. I wish
the Society all success in its efforts to preserve birds generally and rare species

 




 

 

 

.22

in particular in our own country, and to promote legislation such as the Plumage
Bill in order to protect beautiful species abroad from becommg rare and ﬁnally

extinct.
“ The more civilisation and trade advance and spread, the more need Is

there for care and effort to prevent the natural beauty and amenity of the
world being impoverished by the destruction Of harmless and attractive bird
life.”

From the Countess of Shaftesbury (Vice-President), the Countess
of Mayo, the Earl of Cassillis, Viscount Guillamore, the Speaker
of the House of Commons (Right Hon. J. Lowther), Hon. Edward
Lyttelton, D.D. (Vice-President), Brig-General Page Croft, M.P.
(Member of the Council), the Hon. Gladys Graham-Murray, Miss
Maude Royden (who wrote, “ there is no cause in the world I would
more willingly serve ”), Sir Harry Johnston, Mr. F. C. H. Borrett
‘(who enclosed £2 2s. as the amount of his railway fare had he come),
Mr. T. A. Coward, Rev. F. L. Blathwayt, 'Mr. A. Mayall, Mr. J.~
Monteath, Mr. Frank E. Marshall, Rev. A. Scott, Colonel Sir Edward
Brotherton, Rev. A. Linzee-Giles, Mrs. I. Lemel, and many others.

Mr. LEMON presented the Annual Report, and dealt brieﬂy
with the main features of the Society’s work as therein summarised.

The CHAIRMAN, in moving the adoption of the Report and
Statement of Accounts, expressed the deep regret they all felt
in the absence of Lord Methuen, who had looked forward to being
present and who would have been very pleased to see the splendid
attendance they had. This was the ﬁrst time for seven years that
he himself had had the opportunity of attending a meeting, and
he was very glad that his ﬁrst appearance on a public platform since
his return from South Africa should be as Chairman speaking on
behalf of the Royal Seciety for the Protection of Birds. During
those seven years he had retained his Honorary Treasurership;
and it was satisfactory to know that in spite Of the difﬁculties
which the war brought to all such Societies as theirs, they had made
such really considerable progress. Although, however, the ﬁnances
were in a sound condition he, as Treasurer, wished to appeal for still
greater support. They were told that the love of money was the
root of all evil, but with such a Society as theirs it was the want
of money which prevented good from being done, and he was sure
that if the public realised the work accomplished by the Society-
they would provide it with more ample funds.

THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

4 There were one or two points in the Report to which he would
like to refer. One was with regard to the formation of a Central
Advisory Committee to assist in the administration and co—ordination
of the Wild Birds Protection Acts and Orders. Some regret was




23

expressed that this Committee was not at present entrusted with all
the powers they had hoped to see given to it. But the institution
of such a body was a great step ; and no doubt in the future, when
it had proved its value, it would be called upon to assist in the
obtaining of information, for instance, as to birds which were
destructive, and still more as to birds which were useful from the
point of view of the food supply of this country, and would act
as a sort of propagandist committee to circulate information
generally in regard to the protection of birds. He, therefore,
congratulated them upon the appointment of the'Committee, even
though it did not go so far as might be desired.

THE PLUMAGE QUESTION.

With reference to the Plumage Bill of 1920, when he. heard in
South Africa that this Bill had passed its Second Reading with a
minority of onlyreight against it, he did hope that at last, after all
these years, practical action would be taken. . He had had, however,
some experience of House of Commons Grand Committees, and knew
that if it was not a Government measure, it was easy enough for a
small number of members, who were determined that it should not
pass, to prevent it from passing. With all other members of that
Society he very greatly regretted that a Bill, the chances of which
seemed so favourable at the beginning of the Session, should be
among the massacred innocents at the end. He noticed that a good
deal of play was made with the argument that if the importation
of plumage in general was prohibited, the ostrich feather trade
would be injured. He did not believe for a moment that the
prohibition of plumage which was obtained by the destruction of
birds, often involving a great deal of cruelty, would in the least
affect the business of the ostrich-farm, which was on a totally
different basis. As far as that argument was concerned he was
conﬁdent there was nothing in it upon which opposition to the
Plumage Bill could be founded. '

THE WATCHERs’ COMMITTEE.

Turning next to the Society’s Watchers, he wished to say a
word or two about the work of these men, appointed by the Society
in various. parts of the country to protect the rarer birds and their
nests during the breeding season and thus to carry out the law.
The Watchers’ Committee was instituted in 1905, and he was glad
to ﬁnd that the number of Watchers and the number of places
protected had both increased. In 1919 there were fourteen places
with twenty Watchers; in 1920 seventeen places with twenty-
three Watchers. As members of the Society they owed a great
debt of gratitude to this Committee and its Chairman for the active

 




 

 

24

part they had taken in the work ; and special thanks were due to
one gentleman, Mr. H. W. Robinson, who last year spent his holiday
camping out in one of these nesting areas in order to act as watch—
dog on behalf of the birds. He commended this example to the
' ladies and gentlemen present. He was sorry to have to add that
the revenue of the Committee was a blot on their ﬁnances, and he
specially appealed to the public at large to give» contributions
towards this particular branch of the work. The Watchers could
be paid only a comparatively small wage, but they did not work
for money only. They took a real interest in it and loved and knew
their birds as a shepherd his sheep. In connection with that effort
for the preservation of our rare birds he welcomed the presentation
to Mr. Peat that afternoon in recognition of his efforts to protect a
White-tailed .Eagle. He had been much interested to note the
various species of birds specially guarded by the Watchers. One
fact which assisted them on some parts of the coast was that men
were now less eager to make perilous descents of the cliffs in order
to take birds and eggs. He remembered that many years ago,
. his father, being greatly interested in birds, tried to acclimatise
various species in new districts. Among these was a pair of Choughs,
and when one of these died and he sent to a dealer to try to get
another as mate for the survivor, he was told that it was too expensive
to obtain Choughs, as the dealer had had to pay for the funeral of
the man who got him the last one. '

He had much pleasure in moving the resolution.

BIRDS AND INSECTS.

Sir HENRY MACMAHON, in seconding the motion, eXpressed the
great satisfaction it gave him to attend this meeting and to say a
word on behalf of our feathered friends, especially the small birds.
The very important part played by the small birds in the balance of
Nature 'was not commonly realised, and in order to emphasise his
remarks in this connection he would contrast what was going on
inside and outside this country. In England they were well placed
in many ways, and especially in the absence, or comparative absence,
of insect pests. There were very few insect pests in this country to
complain of ; they had on the other hand a great wealth of small
birds. He was not sure that people recognised cause and effect
in this. A large portion of his life had, however, been Spent in
Eastern countries where insect pests were very prevalent and formed
a serious menace to agriculture and also contributed to the spread of
disease. It was a curious fact that in those countries there was by
no means a wealth of small birds, especially at the important time
of the year when small birds were most needed. He knew countries
where there were a great number ofwinter bird visitors, but these
v1s1tors went away at the breeding-time, just when they were most




25

needed for the destruction of insect life. He might take one country,
Egypt, to illustrate his text. It had always been a land of plagues,
and it still remained a land of plagues, especially insect plagues.
Now, Egypt suffered greatly from a lack of birds, particularly small
birds. There used to be a greater number, but as the foreign popu-
lation from southern European countries increased, the birds had
diminished, as these foreigners had a liking for small birds to eat.
Again, in Egypt there was little shelter or accommodation for nesting
birds. The trees had been cut down, and there were no hedgerows.
He endeavoured while he was there to encourage the planting of
copses and undergrowth wherever possible, but every inch of land
was grudged, and every small bush was cut down. Those who
visited Egypt 35 years ago, the time he ﬁrst went there, must have
been struck, as he was, by the great abundance of the White Egret.
You saw immense ﬂocks of them everywhere. But it was discovered
that their plumes had a great value in the millinery trade, and the
birds were destroyed. Egypt had quite forgotten those ancient
days when the" Ibis was a sacred bird, and watched the destruction
with callous indifference. One morning Egypt woke up to ﬁnd that
the Egret had disappeared, and then, too late, it was discovered
that the cotton crop was being ravaged in the most disastrous way
by the cotton-worm, the damage done amounting to several million
pounds a year. The question then aroSe how to get the Egret back
again. Lord Kitchener took up the matter energetically, and
thanks to him the birds were imported and efforts made to en-
courage their breeding in the land once more. The experiment
had been going on now for some years, and they hoped, by the
expenditure of time and money, ultimately to repair to some extent
the disaster incurred by the killing of the birds. This was merely
one illustration of the evil that could result from the extermination
of birds.

The resolution having been carried unanimously, the CHAIRMAN
moved the re-election of Her Grace the Duchess of Portland as
President, which was seconded by Mr. Meade-Waldo and agreed to
amid applause.

EDUCATION AND PUBLIC MUSEUMS.

Sir SIDNEY HARMER, in moving the election of the Council and
Ofﬁcers for the year, said that he had been asked to say a few words
regarding general knowledge of bird life, particularly among children
and young people, with special reference to the utility of public
museums. It was a subject on which he was extremely glad to offer
one or two remarks, and he could express most cordial agreement
with the Society’s efforts in the direction of education. From his
own experience in the Natural History Museum, from conversations
overheard in the galleries, and from correspondence he received,

 




 

 

 

26

he had ample evidence of the amount of ignorance existing. He
had heard apparently well-instructed visitors identifying the giraffe
as an Ostrich. The question of museums in regard to bird life was a
little complicated. Those who worked in museums, and best knew
what a museum had to show, were not always in the best position to
study bird life in the open ; while those who lived‘in the country were
not always in touch with the scientiﬁc worker at the museum. Two
diﬁerent classes of children had to be considered. As far as town
children were concerned, he thought with pleasure of the increasing
use made of the museums by Elementary School children. At the
Natural History Museum they had, particularly on holidays, large
and apparently enthusiastic parties of children who crowded the
galleries. Many of them took a great interest in the objects dis-
played ; and he did thoroughly believe that the instruction children
got in that way was very much to their advantage, as it gave them
an interest in life and helped them to know a few facts connected
with the protection of birds, which was a matter of such vital ,
importance in this country, and in other parts of the world. In a
museum they were able to illustrate one or two sides of the subject.

IN THE MUSEUM GALLERIES.

In the ﬁrst place, they showed the actual specimens, serving to
‘ illustrate the differences between one kind of bird and another. They
also showed exhibits illustrating the life history of the bird, which
was a subject of absorbing interest. There was in the Bird Gallery
a beautiful series of cases containing birds with their nests and
eggs in their natural surroundings, and if any child, or other person,
liked to study these exhibits, particularly with the aid of the guide-
book, it would be possible to learn a great deal in regard to the habits
and life of those birds represented. Then there were cases which
showed a certain number of birds—not all by any means, but some
conspicuous examples—beneﬁcial to agriculture, indicating what
birds did for the farmer. Then again they were able to illustrate
the connection between insects and disease, a subject of far greater
importance in warmer climes than our own. One might perhaps say
that just as the birds are man’s friends, so the insects, or many of
them, are man’s natural enemies, and if not checked in any way
would very soon make the world uninhabitable for human beings.
Their numbers, to begin with, were perfectly prodigious. A friend
of his, a distinguished entomologist, reminded him that our
Natural History Museum was not large enough to contain even a
moderate selection of the insects of the world. Inhabitants of
the country had far better opportunities for the study of Nature than
had people who lived in the towns, and if it was possible to get hold
'of the children in the most impressionable time of their lives, and
lead them to learnsomething of the interest and beauty of the study




j‘

27

of Nature, they would be doing a great thing. There wasno doubt
that children were ready enough to take an interest in living things
if they were encouraged to do so by means of wise direction on the
part of their teachers. The Society had taken a leading part in
educating the children, and he felt certain that, in doing this, they
were acting entirely on the right lines, and he wished them every
success in their endeavours. In order to get perfectly successful
instruction in natural history, the teachers should have complete
knowledge of the facts. That, of course, was an ideal which could
not be attained, but it was greatly to be desired that those who had
to teach children about birds, should be themselves sufﬁciently
instructed to perform this duty satisfactorily, and also it seemed
to him extremely important that they should use a considerable
amount of judgment in what they said on this subject. It was no
use appealing too much to mere sentiment, and thus raising very
difﬁcult and troublesome questions.

VALUE or NATURE STUDY.

A great deal might be made of the question of utility, but what
he thought was perhaps the strongest point that could be emphasised
in the instruction of children was the real necessity and value of the
study itself. If only children were taught to believe that it was better
to learn the habits of the living birds than to possess a few eggs
stowed away in a drawer ; if they could be got to study how birds '
feed, and how they rear their young ; if they gained some idea of
the wonders of migration, and so on, they would lay up for them-
selves a real interest in Nature which might be of service, not only to
themselves but also to the country at large.

BIRDS IN THE- COUNTRY.

In seconding the resolution Sir WILLIAM PORTAL added his
tribute of welcome to Lord Buxton on his return to them after so
long an absence. In connection with South Africa there was a
story which had interested him concerning President Kruger.
Kruger was one of the few men to whom a statue was erected during
his lifetime, and at the instigation of his wife, a lover of birds, the
hat on this statue was provided with a hollow at the top in order
that the small birds might quench their thirst with the water that
collected in this space. Reference had been made to the English
hedgerows. He hoped that all who lived in the country would
remember that it was our hedgerows that provided homes for the
little 'birds and made for their preservation and their happiness.
No other country in Europe, or in the world, possessed such hedges
as we had in England, and it was these which made England a
paradise of. birds. Land was rapidly changing hands ; he thought

 

 




 

 

 

 

28

they might well ask the new owners to spare the hedges instead
of grubbing them up, because of the charm and usefulness of the
birds. There was one bird, and he thought only one, for which he
had a personal dislike, and that was the Little Owl, which he was
afraid bid fair to become a pest. In regard to the education of
children he might make further referenCe to the Bird and Tree
Essay Competitions organised by‘the Society. Two years ago he
was present at the Festival in the village of Barton Stacey in
Hampshire, when that little school had won not only the Hampshire-
Shield, but the Shield open to the competition of all schools in the
country; and next month he hoped to attend a similar festival
at Ridge, which had won the HampShire Shield for 1920—21. It was
particularly interesting to know that this festival was to be held
at Broadlands, where the ﬁrst Anti-Plumage League, from which
the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds was descended, was
formed by Lady Mount—Temple.~

The resolution was agreed to.

THE IMPORTATION or PLUMAGE.

Dr. ARCHIBALD FLEMING moved the following resolution :—

“ That legislation is necessary in the interests of bird preservation through—
out the world, and that in the opinion of this meeting the importation into
England of the plumage of wild birds should be prohibited!)

It had been said, commented the speaker, that women should
realise their individual duty in the matter of bird-destruction by
refraining from the use .of plumage in their millinery. He had
long urged this upon women, as many others had done ; and had
he and they been successful there would be no need for his speech that
day, or for the resolution regarding legislation on the importation
of such plumage, or for the legislation itself. To his mind the
wearing of these feathers was a barbarous fashion. There were
certain things he looked upon as exerting a barbarous and brutalising
inﬂuence on imodern life. Hunting tame stags was one of these
things ; shooting pigeons or other birds from traps was another;
the eating of larks and small birds in general was a third. It might
seem a plausible excuse to say that one life was as precious to its
possessor as another, and that it was as wrong and as barbarous
to take the life of a turkey for food as that of a Skylark or a quail.
He did not think so. There was something distinctly brutal in
taking a little bird’s life in order that some self-indulgent man or
woman might obtain a succulent morsel from its tender breast.
The matter of wearing wild birds’ plumage was also distinctly
brutalising, though not so much so as if women were always conscious
of the cruelty inﬂicted. Women had, as a rule, much imagination,

ck A~4.—~




29

but they found it convenient to drown their imagination when
desirous of securing a personal adornment ; and, therefore, he
considered it a duty to awaken and stimulate that imagination by
telling them exactly What happened before the feathers reached them.
It was not always pleasant to offer this testimony, but he had
striven to do so, in private conversation, in the pulpit, and else-
where, saying plainly that it was a fashion he detested. It was
sometimes urged in extenuation that some of these “ ospreys ” were
imitation. He did not see much force in that excuse. The
suggestion that a woman were imitations for the purpose of making
her friends believe that she had paid a high price for the real thing
did not seem to him to make her conduct much better. Something
had also been said about being careful not to use extreme language
and remembering that a certain trade was a little sensitive on the
matter. This argument, too, left him cold. In every reform there
was some vested interest up against them, and it was necessary
to speak clearly and fearlessly, without being too much afraid of
hurting the feelings of interested parties. It was the same in the
.case of the Slave Trade, and in that of other reforms. Let them
remember that the Father in Heaven was the Father of bird and
beast as well as of the souls and bodies of men ; that He who marked
the sparrow’s fall marked also that of the murdered Egret, and that
“He prayeth best who loveth best all things both great and small.”

Mr. HOLBROOK JACKSON seconded. He was a keen and strong
supporter of the Plumage Bill, and his support was based on humane
feeling. The enemies of the movement called humanity senti—
mentalism, but they did not greatly mind about that, since every
honest effort and action to better the world was promoted by
humane feeling. They could, however, substantiate their arguments
by answering the various objections raised against legislation.
For instance, it was said that such legislation would destroy an
important industry. It would destroy an industry, but not, he
thought, an important industry. It was said that it would occasion
a great amount of unemployment. It would occasion a certain
amount of unemployment, which could be readily absorbed into
other trades. If it destroyed one industry it would open the way
for the development of much greater ones, because if they abolished
the use of. the plumage of wild birds in millinery they would encourage
the manufacture of legitimate goods for decorative purposes and
the employment of a much greater number of people. There were
two main lines of action in all propaganda work. One was by
direct action, and they must not allow that useful phrase to be
monopolised by industrial revolutionists. They wanted to induce
, the leaders of fashion in this country to refuse to wear the plumage
of Wild birds. If they could do that half their victory would be
won ; and for this they needed the use of personal inﬂuence. But

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

.30

that was not sufﬁcient ; for fashion was capricious, and they never
knew what interests were at work behind fashion, promoting the
sale of a particular line of goods on purely mercenary gnounds.
Therefore, they had to fall back on legislation, and he hoped they
would be untiring in their eﬁorts to secure that the Plumage Bill
became law at the earliest possible moment.

The resolution was carried nem. con.

THE CAGING or BIRDS.

Mr. FREDERICK SPRIGGS moved :—

“ That this meeting records its detestation of the taking and caging
of wild song-birds during the winter months and urges the Home Secretary to
promote legislation which will put a stop to these practices.”

He hoped there would be a unanimous vote for this resolution
also, for such legislation would mean putting a stop to the abominable
practice of imprisoning birds in small cages. Last week he had
been in East Street, Walworth, and there saw birds conﬁned in
cages six inches by six inches by four. Among them were no fewer
than thirty cages of larks. He trusted that strong representations
would be made to the Home Secretary on this matter. It might
interest Londoners to know that 42 species of birds wete by law
protected all the year in the County of London, and these birds
should be similarly protected all over the country.

Miss CLIFTON said she had the greatest possible pleasure in
seconding the resolution. People did not realise what it meant to
a winged creature, like a bird, to be shut up in a narrow cage, Where
it sang its heart out in suﬁering. She could not imagine any one
deriving satisfaction from a pleasure purchased at such a price.

‘ The motion was carried unanimously.

THE MAN WITH A GUN.

Mr. AUBYN TREVOR-BATTYE, proposing a vote of thanks to the
Chairman, added a few remarks upon the danger to birds due to the
increase in small holdings and the changing ownership of land.
In his eXperience the sons of farmers who now were owners where
before they were tenants, commonly took out gun licences, using
their guns (always of course “for rabbits ”) early in the morning
and at dusk, when it was too dark to see a rabbit. The list of
gun-licence holders on the church doors grew longer each year.
What did these men shoOt at? The British farmer had, alas,
not even yet learnt to know that the Owl was his best friend. - Mr.

 




31
Trevor-Battye made an earnest appeal to all who live in the country

to use their utmost possible endeavours to discourage this disastrous
practice. ’

Sir GEORGE GREENWOOD, in seconding, referred especially to the
failure of successive Plumage Bills to pass into law in spite of the
telling majorities recorded in the House of Commons. How was
this to be accounted for? It would really seem as though some
sinister inﬂuence were at work unseen in order to stiﬂe this long-
desired, long called-for, legislation.

Lord Buxton having brieﬂy acknowledged the resolution,
with which he associated the speakers and the Middlesex County
Council, the proceedings terminated.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

32

HONORARY FELLOWS.

Dr. ALBARRACIN, Buenos Ayres.

Dr. SEVERIN BAUDOUY, Saint Cecile, France.

Herr F. E. BLAAUW, Noord, Holland.

Mr. ADOLPHE BURDET, Holland.

Dr. FRANK M. CHAPMAN, American Museum of Natural History, N .Y.

Dr. W. T. HORNADAY, Director New York Zoological Park.

Sir HARRY JOHNSTON, G. C.M. G., K. C. B.

The Hon. Sir THOMAS MACKENZIE.

Mr. A. H. E. MATTINGLEY, Australasian Ornithologists Union,
Melbourne.

Mr. J. P. THIJSSE, Binnenduin, Holland.

LIFE FELLOWS.

Her Grace the DUCHESS OF PORTLAND.
His Grace the DUKE OF BEDFORD, K.G.
The LADY THEODORA GUEST.

Right Hon. VISCOUNT GREY of Falloden, K.G.
Mrs. R. W. WILLIAMSON (Founder of the Society, 1889).
The Hon. C. ROTHSCHILD. F.Z.S.
WILLIAM WEIR of Kildonan, Esq.

C. CASTIE- SLOANE, Esq.

Mrs. ST. HILL.

RICHARD KEARTON, Esq., FZ.S.

A. HOLTE-MACPHERSON, Esq., F. Z. S.
Miss CHICHESTER.

JOHN M. HANBURY, Esq.

Mrs. E. C. T. MILLER.

ARCHIBALD THORBURN, Esq.

Mrs. J. B. WILLIAMS.

W. H. B. FLETCHER, Esq.

Miss HELEN BROTHERS.

EDWARD J. BOLTON, Esq., F.R.MehSoc.
Mrs. CHARLES HUNTER.

Dr. BIDDER.

J. C. MOULTON, Esq.

NICHOLAS H. FITZHERBERT, Esq.

FELLOWS.

(Subscription, One Guinea per annum.)

 

 

Norman Abbott, Esq.

Miss L. ~Ad1ercron.
D. F. Alderson, Esq.

H. G. Alexander, Esq.

R. W. Allars, Esq.
A. Louis Allen, Esq.
Mrs. Arthur Allen.
Mrs. Ashton Allen.
Ernest Allen, Esq.
A. G. Ambrose, Esq.

Miss Wright Anderson.

R. F. Appach, Esq.
Mrs. Arnold.

C. S. Ascherson, Esq.
Mrs. Ascherson.

F. W. Ashley, Esq., F.Z.S.
H. D. Astley, Esq., F.Z.S.
Mrs. Evelyn Atherley.
L.G.Austen,Esq.,R.N.V.R.
Mrs. Badham.

Mrs. Bagnall—O’Cahan
Mrs. W. Baily.

H. Baillie- Weaver, Esq.
W. O. Bailey, Esq.

Mrs. F. E. Baines.

Mrs. Barclay.

 

 




 

 

Sir Godfrey Baring, Bart.

Thomas Baring, Esq.

Miss A. E. F. Barlow.

The Hon. Lady Barrington.

Alfred Beddow, Esq.

David M. Bell, Esq.

Ernest Bell, Esq., M.A.

C. Berney-Brown, Esq.

Miss M. J. S. Best, F.Z.S.

Mrs. Bibby.

Dowager Lady Bingham.

The Lady Binning.

Dr. Bishop.

W. S. Blunt, Esq.

Miss Alice Blyth.

R. Oswald Blyth, Esq.

Mrs. Bogle.

Mrs. Bonham Christie.

J.‘ Lewis Bonhote, Esq.,
F.L.S., F.Z.S.

Frank Bonnett, Esq.

Miss Isabel Bonus.

Miss Booth.

Miss B. Booth.

F.C. H. Borrett, Esq.

The Lady Boston.

Mrs. Stratten Boulnois.

Mrs. A. M. Boyle. *

C. H. Boyle, Esq.

Mrs. Bradley.

T. L. Bradley, Esq.

T. W. L. Bradley, Esq.

Mrs. H. Brenchley.

Mrs. L. F. Brett.

T. H. Briggs, Esq.

Leolin Brigg, Esq.

Miss Esther Bright.

J. R. Bristow, Esq.

Hon. G. B. Brooks.

H. Brooks, Esq.

Col. Sir Edward Brother-
ton, Bart.

Mrs. A. Brown.

F. A. Bruton, Esq.

MacIver Buchanan, Esq.

Mrs. Burrows.

G. F. Buxton, Esq., F.R.G.S.

J. H. Buxton, Esq. ‘

Rt. Hon. Viscount Buxton,
G.C.M.G.

Miss Byas.

Miss Calley.

Miss Cameron.

A. K. Carlyon, Esq.

J. F. Carnell, Esq.

T. B. Cartwright, Esq.

Mrs. E. Chambers.

Mrs. Chandos-Pole—Gell.

33

D. Leighton Chapman, Esq

Miss M. H. F. Chapman.

E. P. Charlewood, Esq.

Apsley Cherry-Garrard, Esq.

Miss Agnes M. Christian

Miss Alice M. Christian.

Mrs. Clark.

Captain Goland Clarke.

Mrs. Clarke.

Mrs. Clayton.-

G. C. Clayton, Esq.

Miss Clifton.

Mrs. Edward Clodd.

A. Townshend Cobbold, Esq.

Miss F. Cochrane.

The Hon. Sir John Cock-
burn, K.C.M.G.

The Hon. Stephen Coleridge.

Miss E. Colman.

Miss H. C. Colman.

Chas. H. Combe, Esq.

Mrs. Connell.

Dr. Russell Coombe.

J. F. Coonan, Esq.

Mrs. S. V. Coote.

Miss Marie Corelli.

The Countess Dowager of
Crauford.

Lt. G. L. A. Craven, Duke
of Cornwall’s Lt. Inf.

L. F. Crawshay, Esq.

Andrews Crompton, Esq.

Fleming Crooks, Esq.

Miss Cruddas.

W. A. Bishop-Culpeper-
Clayton, Esq. '

H. J. St. B. Cunliffe, Esq.

F. A. Currey, Esq.

Mrs. Currey.

Mrs. Frederick Curtis.

Rt. Hon. Earl Curzon oi
Kedleston, G.C.S.I.

F. R. Davenport, Esq.

Frederick Dawson, Esq.

Mrs. Frederick Dawson.

Miss E. Dawson-Lambton.

Major Maurice E. Denny.

Rt. Hon. Lord Desborough,
K.C.V.O.

Mrs. B. Donisthorpe.

Mrs. Drabble.

Miss Dresser.

The Hon. Mrs. Drewitt.

F. D. Drewitt, Esq., M.D.
F.Z.S. ’

Major A. Radclyffe Dug-
more. ,

Norman Eadie, Esq.

 




 

 

 

 

34

Mrs. D’Esté East.

Miss M. J. Elder.

Lieut.-Col. L. C. Elwes,
D.S.O.

Mrs. Elwes.

Miss Embleton.

Miss Enderby.

P. R. England, Esq.

P. Carew Essex, Esq.

J. F. L. Evans, Esq.

Miss M. E. Fairholme.

Miss Fairless.

Mrs. Fennel].

Miss Ferguson (Lancs.)

Miss Ferguson (Devon.)

Wm. J. Fieldhouse, Esq.,
C.B.E. ,

J. Bradley Firth, Esq.

Captain W. L. T. Fisher.

Mrs. Hugh Fitton.

H. Footner, Esq.

Mrs. Edward Foster.

W. E. Found, Esq.

H. A. Freeman.

Mrs. O’D. Frick.

W. E. Frost, Esq.

Lady Fry.

Mrs. J. M. C. Galloway.

John Galsworthy, Esq.

Mrs. John Galsworthy.

Miss Mary Gamlen.

F. C. Gardiner, Esq.

Miss Anne Garrett,

Miss Gaskell.

Miss Gilbert.

Miss Gilmour.

Rev. H. S. Gladstone, M.A.

Hugh S. Gladstone, Esq.

Capt. M. H. S. Goodliﬁe.

Dr. Philip Gosse.

Mrs. Grove Grady.

Mrs. Malise Graham.

Norman Graham, Esq.

'A. J. Grant, Esq.

Mrs. Grant.

Mrs. Hunter Gray.

Sir W. Graham Greene,
K.C.B.

Lady Green.

H. J. Green, Esq.

Roland Green, Esq.

Mrs. Walter Greg.

F.-M. Lord Grenfell, G.C.B.

Mrs. Griggs.

W. G. Groves, Esq.

John Grubb, Esq.

Rt. Hon. Viscount Guilla-
more.

Mrs. Murray Guthrie.
Mrs. Patrick Hadow.
Major Haines.
Miss C. V. Hall.
Hambledon, Rt. Hon.
Viscount...
F. J. Hanbury, Esq.,,
F.L.S.
Rt. Hon.kL. Hardy.
William Hartmann, Esq.
T. Edwin Harvey, Esq.
G. W. Hayes, Esq.
R. E. Heath, Esq.
Keith Henderson, Esq.
The Lady Heneage.
Hon. F. R. Henley.
The Hon. Mrs. Arthur
Henniker.
Miss K. H. Henrey.
Miss M. M. Herbert.
Lieut.-C01. W. D. Y. Herries.
Miss H. Herron.
H. J. Hill, Esq.
R. T. Hindley, Esq.
Harold Hodge, Esq., M.A.,
Miss Hodge.
Miss A. B. Hodges.
F. Holme-Sumner, Esq.
Mrs. Holt-Thomas.
Lady Hooker.
Wynnard Hooper, Esq.
Mrs. Hope-Brown.
Capt. C. Scott Hopkins.
Robt. J. Howard, Esq.
J. M. Howell, Esq.
Mrs. E. C. P. Hull.
H. J. Hunt, Esq.
Mrs. Robert Hunter.
Wm. Hustler, Esq.
Mrs. H. R. Hutton.
Miss Jacob.
Capt. H. R. Janes. ,
Capt. C. W. Janson. . :3.
Mrs. Jefferson.
Lady Jenkyns.
Captain H. W. Jessop.
G. W. Jevons, Esq.
Miss E. M. Jones.
Miss C. A. L. Jones.
L. Lister Kaye, Esq.
Miss A. M. Keep.
Mrs. James Kemnal.
Miss Kemplay.
A. J. King, Esq. ’
Howard Kingham, Esq. }
Mrs. Eaton‘Lander.
Capt. the Hon. Edward
Lascelles.

 

 




Hon. Gerald Lascelles.

Lt. E. F. Lawder, R.N.

Mrs. Richard Lawson.

Mrs. Herbert Leaf.

T. Hastings Lees,
F .Z.S.

Mrs. Hamilton Leigh.

F. E. Lemon, Esq., M.A.,
LL.B.

Mrs. F. E. Lemon, F.Z.S.

C. W. Lilley, Esq.

Mrs. Lindemann.

Rt. Hon. Clementina, Lady
Lilford.

Thos. 0. Lloyd, Esq.

G. E. Lodge, Esq.

A. K. Loyd, Esq., K.C.

Major T. G. L. Lumley-
Smith, D.S.O.

Capt. H. Lyle.

J. M. .K. McGugan, Esq.

Mrs. R. E. McLean.

G. A. Macmillan, Esq.

Lady McMillan.

Mrs. Fuller Maitland.

Lady Malcolm of Poltalloch.

Gaspard 1e Marchant, Esq.

F. E. Marshall, Esq.

Miss E. Marston.

J. R. B. Maseﬁeld, Esq.

Mrs. Mathwin.

Coryndon Matthews, Esq.

' Rt. Hon. Sir Herbert
Maxwell, Bt.

Alexander Mayall, Esq.

E. G. B. Meade-Waldo,
Esq., F.Z.S.

Miss E. H. Melvill.

H. T. Mercer, Esq.

Rt. Hon. Lord Methuen,
G.C.B., G.C.V.O.

Mrs. Meynell.

Lady Mildmay.

F. G. Miller, Esq.

J. P. Mills, Esq.

Mrs. W. A. Milner.

Lady Mirrielees.

John Morley, Esq.

Miss Mortimore.

James Mott, Esq.

The Lady Mount Stephen.

Sir C. Wyndham Murray,
C.B.

Mrs. Murray-Smith.

Mrs. Russel Naylor.

F. W. Neale, Esq.

Jerry Needham, Esq.

Mrs. Neild.

Esq.,

The Lady George Nevill.

F. W. Newmarch, Esq.

Rt. Hon. Lord Newton.

Mrs. Nicholson.

Miss Agnes Nix.

Arthur P. Nix, Esq.

Leonard Noble, Esq., F.Z.S.

Arthur Norris, Esq.

Miss M. Odette.

B. Savile Ogle, Esq.

Mrs. Ogilvie.

W. R. Ogilvie-Grant, Esq.,
F.Z.S.

J. G. Ohlenschlager, Esq.

Charles Oldham, Esq.

J. R. Oliphant, Esq.

G. F. Ormerod, Esq.

Professor Kennedy Orton.

Mrs. Irene Osgood.

R. O. P. Paddison, Esq.

Brig-Gen. H. Page Croft,
M.P.

Laurence Page, Esq.

H. Hamilton Palairet, Esq.

W. J. Palmer, Esq.

Albert Pam, Esq.

Captain Eric Parker.

Hon. Mrs. T. T. Parker.

Miss V. Partington.

Mrs. Parson.

W. H. Patterson, Esq.

Mrs. G. H. Pattinson.

H. W. Payne, Esq.

J'. E. Pearson, Esq.

Mrs. Gerald Peel.

Miss Edith Peirse
Duncombe.

Dr. A. M. le Pelley.

J. E. Perrin, Esq.

Miss J. Perry.

Miss Petitjean.

Mrs. H. Philips.

Mrs. Bertram Philipps.

Miss E. Pigott.

Miss C. Pilkington.

Alderman C. Pinkham.

Miss Pitman.

W. J. P. Player, Esq.

F. J. S. Pollard, Esq.

Rt. Hon. Sir Frederick
Pollock, Bart, LL.D.,
D.C.L.

Miss L. Pollock.
Maurice R. Portal, Esq.
Spencer J. Portal, Esq.
Sir William Portal, Bart.
Sydney Porter, Esq.

J. A. Pownall, Esq.

 




 

 

 

W. R. Price, Esq.

George Priestman, Esq.

Mrs. Rackham.

Major W. Radcliffe-
Saunders.

Miss Raine.

Mrs. C. F. Ratcliffe.

Miss B. E. Rawlings.

Graham Renshaw, Esq.,
M.D., M.R.C.S.

Miss C. D. Richards.

H. Ridgers, Esq.

Mrs. Bertie Roberts.

Lady Robinson.

H. W. Robinson, Esq.

The Rt. Hon. Sir Rennell

Rodd, G.C.M.G., G.C.V.O.

The Countess dellaRochetta,

Miss Rogers.

Miss Maude Roscrow.

‘T. W. Rundell, Esq.

C. A. Russell, Esq., K.C.

Conrad Russell, Esq., F .Z.S.

Harold Russell, Esq.

The Hon. Maud Russell.

Mrs. W. E. Russell.

His Grace the Duke of
Rutland, K.G.

Miss J. H. Salkeld.

Lady Samuelson.

H.H. the Ranee Margaret
of Sarawak.

Mrs. Savery.

W. H. Savory, Esq.

Miss Sawbridge.

Dr. A. F. Seacome.

Rt. Hon. Lord Seaforth

Miss Seagrave.

Capt. Eric Searight, M.C.

The Right Hon. the Earl of
Selborne, K.G.

Rt. Hon. Countess of
Shaftesbury.

Montagu Sharpe, Esq., D.L.,
K.C

Mrs. Montagu Sharpe.
Mrs. Bernard Shaw.

Dr. W. Shipton.

Coningsby C. Sibthorp,Esq.,
. D L.

Mrs. Slade Baker.

F. Smalley, Esq., F.Z.S.

Miss A. F. Smith.

T. Smith, Esq.

Mrs. Yorke Smith.

Her Grace the Duchess
of Somerset.

Miss E. Spender.

His Honour Judge Stanger.

W. C. Stapledon, Esq.

Lt.~Col. H. Staveley-Hill,

. D.L.

E. J. Stephens, Esq.

Hon. Lady Cowell Stepney.

Miss Helen Stewart.

W. H. St. Quintin, Esq.,
F.Z.S.

A. L. Stocks, Esq.

R. G. Stonham, Esq.

Mrs. Stracey—Clitherow.

W. M. Strachan, Esq.

The Hon. Mrs. G. Strutt.

P. S. F. Stubbs, Esq.

Mrs. Suckling.

Lt.-Col. R. C. Swan.

Dr. A. Barry Sykes.

R. J. Cambridge Syrett,
Esq.

Mrs. Sancroft Taylor..

Mrs. E. Tennent.

Mrs. Lloyd Theakston.

Mrs. Arthur Thompson.

Miss L. R. Thornely.

Miss Mabel Thornton.

Mrs. Wallis Toller.

Miss A. Townshend.

A. Trevor-Battye, Esq.,
F.L.S., F.Z.S.

Lt.-Col. A. R. Trotter.

Mrs. Turnbull.

Miss E. L. Turner, F.Z.S.

Hugh Turner, Esq.

J. Turner-Turner, Esq.
Most Hon. Julia, Mar-
chioness of Tweeddale.

T. F. Twist, Esq.

Colonel W. H. Unwin.

W. H. Upjohn, Esq.

Miss Clara Vasey.

Miss Vertue.

T. J. VVaddingham, Esq.,
D.L., J.P.

Mrs. Waite.

Desborough Walford, Esq.

Mrs. Desborough Walford.

Herbert Walker, Esq.

George Wall, Esq., J.P.

Miss Eva Walsh.

Miss C. Waltham.

Professor Ernest Warren.

J. B. Watson, Esq.

Mrs. Watson.

Mrs. Watts.

James Weston, Esq.

Miss Whibley.

J. W. Baker White, Esq.

 




 

Major G. Dalryiiipre White,
M P.

A. B. Whiteside, Esq.

P. C. A. VViggall, Esq.
Miss Wild.

Mrs. Wilkin.

W. M. Willcocks. Esq.
Miss E. Williams.

Mrs. Wilson.

Rt. Hon. Countess of Win-
. chilsea.

37

Miss Maude Wingﬁeld.
Miss A. Winham.

Mrs. Percy Withers.
Mrs. Hugh Wormald.
Mrs. Marke Wood.
Miss E. G. Woodd.
Mrs. Wooldridge.

Mrs. H. Smith Wright.
Mrs. Wylie.

W. Eaton Young, Esq.

HONORARY MEMBERS.

1C. L. Barrett, Esq.
Mrs. Donkin.

Miss Dunn.

Mrs. Isidore Lemel.
.S. L. Mosley, Esq.

Mrs. John Playfmd.

W. P. Pycraft, Esq. A. L S.,
F. Z. S.

E. Thompson Seton, Esq.

LIFE MEMBERS.

.Sir Charles E. Adam, Bart.

Mrs. Andrew Arthur.

W. Denby Arton, Esq.

H. G. Attlee, Esq.

,E. H. Bayley, Esq.-

Miss Bishop.

Rev. H. N. Bonar, F.Z.S.

Miss Estella Canziani.

A. St. George Caulfeild, Esq.

Dan Cave, Esq.

.Lieut.-Colone1
Clarke.

Lieut.-Colonel Clarke.

.Miss E. Cole.

.H. Collison, Esq.

Harry Collison, Esq.

Mrs. Robt. Cook.

fSir W. Cooper.

Mrs. Crowder.

.J. E. S. Dallas, Esq.

J. Roger Dawson, Esq.

Miss Agnes Debenham.

'Rt. Hon. the Earl of
Eldon.

C. H. L. Ewen, Esq.

Mrs. H. Gardner.

W. B. Gibbins, Esq.

Sir John R. Gladstone, Bt.

Rt. Hon. Lady Glenconner.

Miss V. Gordon.

W. A. Harford, Esq.

Dr. F. P. Haviland.

Miss Herchmer. _

J. O. Herdman, Esq.

J. E. Hurtley, Esq.

Julian S. Huxley, Esq.

Lieut.—Col. A. E. Lascelles.

Miss A. S. Lemon.

Stephenson

Rt. Hon. Lord Lilford.
Miss Lindley.

Miss H. M. Littlejohn.
Gerald Lloyd, Esq. '
Captain H. Lynes, R.N.
Miss Mackintosh.

Mrs. McGill.

Miss M. Gibson Mahony.
The Lady Evelyn Mason.
Capt. L. Emerson Mather.
Lady Stirling Maxwell.
Col. C. T. Menzies.

John R. Menzies, Esq.
Mrs. Milward.

R. F. Nicholson, Esq.
Allan H. P. Noble, Esq.
A. W. Oke, Esq.

Edmund Page: Esq.

R. P. Page, Esq.

F. G. Penrose, Esq. ., M. D.
Miss I. Postgate.

Miss T. W. Powell.

W. B. Purefoy, Esq.

Sir Henry Ripley, Bt.

Mrs. Rose-Innes.

Mrs. T. W. Rundell.

The Lady Ela Russell.
Miss Flora Russell.

Lady Ernest St. Maur.
Harold S. Seldon, Esq.
Mrs. Basil de Selincourt.
Rt. Hon. Lord Tennyson.
Mrs. Arthur Tharp.

Mrs. G. Trevelyan.

A. E. C. Trotter, Esq.
Vernon James,Watney, Esq.
Miss Helen C. Whitaker.
Douglas J. B. Wilson, Esq.

 




7*» h.‘_ , ,_.,_._._. e..._"...._.-_ .. _.

_38

Names and Addresses of Hon. Local Secretaries.

BEDFORDSHIRE. Miss Gaskoin, Greenwood Cottage, Woburn Sands.

apt. Lindsay, The Manor House, Sutton Courtenay.

BERKSHIRE. C
H. D. Astley, Esq., Benham Park, Newbury.

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. North Bucks. Hon. Mrs. Mansﬁeld Clarke, Wicken

Park, Stony Stratford.
South Bucks. Mrs. Dixon Davies, Witheridge,

Beaconsﬁeld .
Great Marlow. Miss D. Cain, “Lynton,” Glade

Road.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE. Isle of Ely. Mrs. Luddington, Audley House, Littleport.

I,

I,

CAMBRIDGE. E. W. Royston, Esq., 7, Baternan Street.

CHESHIRE. Bowdon. T. A. Coward, Esq., Brentwood.

Macclesﬁeld.

Prestbury. Mrs. Gerald Dowson, Manor House, Radcliffe-on-
Trent.

Wirral. Lewis Jones, Esq., Hilbre Island.

CORNWALL. Liskeard. Mrs. Hermon, Doublebms.
Truro. Mrs. Rose, Colchester Villas.

’,

CUMBERLAND. Carlisle. Miss Coulson, Houghton Hall.
Ennerdale. Mr. H. Watson, Bleach Green, Cleator, via
Carnforth. .

9’

DERBYSHIRE. Miss Vaudrey, The Grove, Ashbourne.
Alfreton. H. W. Daykin, Esq., King Street.

 

 

 

’1

DEVONSHIRE. Chagford. Miss Ella K. R. Perryman.

6. Molton. Miss Ida Kingdon, Belle Vue.

Newton Abbot. Mrs. Cornish Bowden, Oak Lawn.
Pilton. Mrs. Geo. Chichester, Chelfham, Stoke Rivers, R.S.O. '
Sidmouth. Mrs. Ella Fuller Maitland, The Grove.

9’
,9
Q)

’,

ESSEX. Colchester. Miss Annetta Bedwell, 65, High Street.
Romford. Miss Clifton, The Cottage.
Wanstead. Miss Hamilton, 14, Martyndale Road, East Sheen.

J!

)’

GLOUCESTERSHIRE. N. Gloucestershire. W. L. Mellcrsh, Esq., Bergholt,
Painswick Road, Cheltenham.

S. Gloucestershire. Mrs. W. Harford, Petty France,
Badminton.

HAMPSHIRE. East. Rev. Canon Vaughan, The Close, Winchester.
South. Rev. J. E. Kelsall, The Rectory, New Milton.

New Forest. Mrs. Suckling, Highwood, Romsey.
Bournemouth. Miss W. L. Rooper, Pen Selwood.
Havant. H. Beeston, Esq., Sunnymead.

Southsea. Miss G. Wolfe, Beechcroft, 57, Granada Road.
Winchester. Miss E. M. ’Williams, Painter’s Fields Cottage.
Southampton. Miss Macnaghten, Bittern Park.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

9‘»

 

39

HERTFORDSHIRE. Berkhamsted. Miss Sedgwick, Alderley, Chesham Road.

,, Haileybury.
,, Hemel Hempstead. Mrs. J. L. Hammond, Oatﬁeld,
Piccotts End.
,, \ngodd. R. H. T. Drummond, Esq., Comrie, Westland
oa .

KENT. Canterbury. Mrs. Lloyd Bevan, 61, Burgate.
,, Hythe. W. J. Atkinson, Esq., Quarry Mead, Hillcrest Road.
,, Sevenoaks. J. Carnell, Esq., Suffolk House.
,, Tunbridge \Vells. Miss E. F. Jones, I7, Frant Road.

LANCASHIRE. Birkdale. Miss Salisbury, 3o, Westbourne Road.
,, Blackburn. Miss Hilda Howard, Shear Bank.

,, Blundellsands. Mrs. H. McLean.

,,, Fylde District. Dr. Poole, Lytham.

,, Liverpool. W. A. Edwards, Esq., 22, Errol Street, St.
Michael’s.

.. Ulverston. H. B. Turney, Esq., Lightburn Avenue.

LEICESTER. Kegworth and District. Miss H. Rothera, The Manor House,

Kegworth.
,, - Leicester. Miss Charters, 34, West Avenue.
,, Loughborough. G. Frisby, Esq., Walnut Villa, Knight Thorpe
Road.
LINCOLNSHIRE. Isle of Axholme. Rev. Allan Ellison, Althorpe Rectory,
Doncaster.

LONDON. Finchley, N. Mrs. J. O. Herdman, Rathlin, Woodside Grange Road.
,, Hampstead, N.W. Mrs. F. E. Baines, 4, Rosslyn Hill. .
,, Blackheath, S.E. Mrs. Trist, Hillside, Dartmouth Row, Black-
heath Hill.
,, Early Wood. Miss L. Pollock, I4, Rosary Gardens, S.W.
,, South Kensington, S.W. The Hon. H. M. Allanson-Winn,
217, Cromwell Mansions, Cromwell Road, S.W.

,, Streatham, S.W. Miss Mace, 69, Christchurch Road, Streatham
Hill.
,, Wandsworth Common. Miss M. Gardiner, 14a, St. James’ Road.

,, Chiswick, W. Edgar Syers, Esq., 8, The Orchard, Bedford Park.
,, Perivale and Greenford, W. L. Roberts, Esq., Perivale Grange.

NORFOLK. Great Yarmouth. Miss Goodwin, 7,, South Quay.
Thetford. Miss Sowels, The Rookery.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE. Kettering. Miss K. Jacques, Arlingbury Hall, Well-
ingbO-rough.

NORTHUMBERLAND. Humshaugh. Miss Lowry.
,, Newcastle-on-Tyne.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. Nottingham. T. W. L. Bradley, Esq., Munde‘n House,
Sherwood Rise.

OXFORDSHIRE, North. Mrs. Barne, Melcombe Hall, Banbury.
,, Oxford. Mrs. Gifford Ambler, The Bungalow, Kennington
Lane.

RUTLANDSHIRE. Rutland. Miss Newton, Catmose Cottage, Oakh‘am.
,, Uppingham.

..... -__.,.._..

 




 

 

 

 

 

4O

SOMERSET. SOmerset, South. Miss A. M. Sibly, Flook House, Taunton.
Bath. Miss Emily Spender, I3, Springﬁeld Place.
., . Ch’ard. Wm. Watson, Esq., Clayhanger.

STAFFORDSHIRE. J, R. B. Maseﬁeld, Esq., Rosehill, Cheadle.

E. J. Bolton, Esq., F .R..Met.Soc., Thornbury Hall, Cheadle.
Walsall. Miss E. Elliott, Lakeside, Denmark Road.

,, Wolverhampton. Mrs. Colley, Caerleon, Bilston.

SUFFOLK. Ipswich. Hugh Turner, Esq., Park Cottage, Bentley.
Suffolk, West. Rev. J. G. Tuck, Tostock Rectory, Bury-

St. Ed munds.

SURREY. Farnham. Miss Esmé Tinne, VVrecclesham.

Camberley. Miss G. Norman, IO, London Road.

Mickleham. Mrs. A. G. Pollock, The Old House, Mickleham,
Dorking.

Purley and Wallington. Miss G. Baker, Somerﬁeld, Foxley'
Lane, Purley.

,, Redhill. Mrs. F. E. Lemon, Hillcrest.

Surrey, West. Rev. W. A. Shaw, Peper Harow Rectory,
Godalming.

,, Sutton. Miss Emily Smith, Whyteleaf, Manor Park Road.

VVitley. Mrs. R. W. Williamson, The Copse, Brook, Godalming.

SUSSEX. Bognor. Miss H. Thorowgood, 7, Queen’s Square.
Brighton and Hove. Lieut.—Col. Williams-Freeman, 29, Selborne

i,

H

,1

I,

’3

Road, Hove.
,, Chichester. Mrs. Meredyth-Baker, Apuldram Vicarage.
,, Eastbourne. Miss Scrutton, Grantham House, Hellingly.
,, VVorthing. Miss A. S. Lemon, Carclew.
WARWICK. Bourneville. Mrs. Wilson, 22, Priory Road, Edgbaston,
‘ Birmingham.

Birmingham. -VV. B. Urwin, 22, Holly Lane, Erdington.
Henley-in-Arden. Miss Strang, The Yew Trees.
Kenilworth. Miss Margetts, Borrowell Cottage.

Rugby. Miss Denton, Fernlea, Bilton.

Southam. E. Hancock, Esq., The Fields.

Warwick. T. 0. Lloyd, Esq., The Priory.

WESTMORLAND. Ambleside. Miss L. R. Thornely, Fieldhead, Outgate,
Ambleside.

WILTSHJRE. Rt. Hon. Viscount Guillamore, Ingleside, Holt, Trowbridge.

VVORCESTERSHIRE. S. Worcester. Rev. A. Linzee Giles, The Vicarage,
Great Malvern.

YORKSHIRE. Bridlington. Miss Lucy Radford, 3, Victoria Road.
,, Ilkley. Miss E. L. Conyers, Dunluce, Ben Rhydding.
,, Leeds. Miss J. Kitson, Elmet Hall.

ISLE OF WIGHT. Niton. Miss Helen Lock, Southcliff.

SCOTLAND.

ALLOA. Archibald Arrol, Esq., Millgrove, Alloa.
CRIEFF. W. E. Frost, Esq., Ardvreck.

DUMBAR’ION. Douglas J. B. Wilson, Esq., Ashville.
EDINBURGH. Dr. W. Eagle Clarke.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

41

FORFAR. Mrs. Douglas, Brigton, Douglastown, nr. Forfar.
GLASGOW. J. McNaught Campbell, Esq., 5, Franklin Terrace.
HELENSBURGH. Mrs. Allan, Clovernook.

INVERNEss-SHIRE. H. B. Macpherson, Esq., Balavie, Kingussie.
LANARKSHIRE. G. W. Campbell, Esq., Ailsa Cottage, Coatbridge.

PERTHSHIRE. Hon. Gladys Graham-Murray, Stenton, Dunkeld.
,, Perth. Miss J. Cameron, Strathview, Scone Road.

Ross—SHIRE. Miss H. M. Littlejohn, Invercharron House, Ardgay.
STIRLING. ~

SHETLAND ISLANDS. Mrs. Bruce, Sunburgh.

WALES.

BRECKNOCKSHIRE. Llanigon. Miss C. A. Thomas, Llanthomas, Hay.
CARDIFF. L. Martin Lewis, Esq., 25, Mafeking Road, Penylan.
CARMARTHENSHIRE. Rev. W. J. Constable, Henllys, Llandovery.
RADNORSHIRE. Miss E. R. Grifﬁths, The Vicarage, Newbridge-on-VVye.

IRELAND.

BELFAST. C. Blake Whelan, Esq., Barna, Osborne Park.
LIMERICK. Miss E. V. Vereke‘r, 8, Eden Terrace, 5. Circular Road.

EGYPT.
CAIRO. R. E. Moreau, Esq., 12, Chareh e1 Guinana, Ezbakiah. '

INDIA.
BOMBAY. E. Comber, Esq.
JUNAGAD. Labhshanker Laxmidas, Esq.
MEERUT, N.P. W. Jesse, Esq., Meerut College.

FORM OF BEQUEST.

To those lovers of birdswho may be inclined to become benefactors
by will to this Society, the following form 13 respectfully suggested :—

“ I give and bequeath the sum of
“ ‘to be paid to THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS,
“ Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1904 ; the said sum to be at the'disposal
“ of the Council for the time being of the said Society and I direct that
“ the same be paid free of legacy duty."

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

. . .1.‘w.1.*z§a Y‘Vr‘f“ '70, 1.. . .. . » - ..

Abbott, N. . .
Allen, Mrs. Ashton
Anderson, Miss A.
Anon. . . . .
A,rnison N. H.
Arnison, Mrs.

.Ashburner, Miss A M.

Assheton, Mrs.

. Auldjo, Miss

Austin, Stanley
Barham, Miss Foster
Bartholomew,
Bedford, His Grace
the Duke of
Bolton, E. J.
Bolton, F. A.
Booth, Miss . .
Borrett, F. C. H. . .
Bourne, Miss J. M. ' . .

, Burrowes, R. B.

Buxton, Rt. Hon.
Earl . .

Carmichael, Mrs.

Chawner, Miss

Chichester, Miss

Chitty, C. .

Churton, Miss M. C

Clarke, Miss

Clifton, Miss.

Cole, H. M. . .

'Collison, H. . .

Coppinger, Mrs.

Corner, Rev. E. A.
Craig, A. W.

Crompton, Andrews

. Crooks, Fleming
Crosﬁeld, A. J.
Crosﬁeld, J.

- Curtis, F.

Davey, A. C.
Dawson, Mrs. F.
Dill, Mrs. Gordon
Edwards, Mrs.
Eggett, A. H.
Ewen, C. H. L.

"Gladstone, Rev. H. S.

’ *Gosse, Dr. Philip

Gurney, H. . . . .

Haigh, Mr.- . .
Harford, W. A. .
Hartley, Miss (the late)
Henderson, Keith
Hornby, H. P. . .
Huddleston, Miss M.

42

WATCHERS’ FUND.

U1

1~JU1U1001000 O 0911-! H.

1 Jacob, Miss ..

J Janson, Capt. W.
Jefferys, T. B. ..

, Jersey, J. H. R. de..

1 Keith— Falcone1, Mrs.

g ' C. A. ..

i Kemplay, Miss

Lonsdale, B

Lecky, Miss . .

Macpherson, A. Holte

Maitland, Mrs. Fuller

Marston, Miss .

Martin, Mrs. H.

Meade Waldo, E. G B.

Moncrieff, Mrs. R. H

Nix, A P. .

1 Oliphant, J. R.

1 Owen, Miss R.

I Pearson, J E.

E Portalloch, Rt. Hon.

H
oooooooooooo?‘

OUlNHOHO
OOOOOOO

Lady Malcolm of
i Popham, Mrs. Ley-
1 borne . .
Portland, Her Giace
the Duchess of
Poynting, Mrs. L.
Ridgers, H. ..
Rodd, F. R.
Russell, Frank
Russell, Harold
Saint, Miss 1.
Salisbury, Miss ..
Sarawak, H.H. Ranee
Margaret of . .
Selous, Edmund
Sharpe, Montagu
Stephens, E. J.
Stewart, Miss .
, Streatfeild, F. H. T.
,5 ,St. Quintin, W. H.
~ Sutherland, Arthur
1 Syrett, R J C.
E Talbot, G. J.
E Thompson, Mrs. W. J.
i Uphaugh, R. de
Urwin, W. B. .
Thornely, Miss L. R.
Trower, A. .
‘ Twist, T. F.
' Vaughan, M.
Vizard, H. . .
_: Waddingham, J. J
Walker, Herbert
i Wallis, C. W. K.

H

CU! GUI NUIU.) O HUIUI O

OHOOHONOOOHOOUI UIONHOHU‘ WOOOOHHHONOHHM
H

H

- _ ._._...__._. .. ..._..._..--.~_..~__... .a.__ . - . - a... “H“... ...

H 1-11-1 H
UIUlOOUIOOOU‘l

H
0

1—1 H
OUIOUIOOUJH

H
O
OOOOOOOOOOOOONOOOOOOOOOOOOOGOOOOOO

oceoHoonwr-«ooomooooa
H
o

H
O

ONNOL‘H

H HOHHOUIOHQQNQOHH

HOHOHLROUI

H

OHHOHNOUIOOONHHOOHNUlNr-l

comm?”

H 1—1

HUIHHNOUIOUJNUIOHO

O

U]

1-4
OOHUIHUIUIO

H H 1-4.
NHOOONOOH

H

H
UIHHUIOOOOOUIOO

0000?“

O OOOOONOOOOOOONOO

O

OONOOOOOO

ooooooooooooooooooooo

 

 




 

 

43

,5: s. d. £ s. d.
Wallis, H. M. 0 IO 0 Williams, R. D. .. I o o
Waln, Miss .. 0 IO_ 0 Wilson, H. .. I I 0
Wansey, Mrs. C 2 6 Wiltshire, Miss . . o 5 0
Warde- Adlam, Col. 2 I o Woodd, Miss E. G. 0 IO 0
Waltham, Miss C. o 5 o Amts. under 23. 6d. 0 16 o
Webb, W. (late) 0 2 6
Wilkinson, Johnson 2 2 0 £163 0 0
Williams, J. C. . . 2 2 o

 

 

LIGHTHOUSE FUND.

 

 

 

,5 s. d. ,5 s d.
Ashburner, Miss A. M. o 2 6 Jefferys, T. B. . . o 10 o
Auldjo, Miss . . o 5 0 Power, Mrs. Godrey” o 2 6
Baily, Miss C. A. o 2 6 Theobald, H. L. ‘ o 5 0
Coppinger, Mrs. o 5 0 Thompson, .Mrs. 0 5 o
Cunningham, A. . 0 IO 0
Gladstone, Rev. H. S. I I 0 £3 13 6
Hall, Miss L. S. . o 5 o -——-=~——*-———‘
DONATIONS.
,5 s. d. 7!, s. d.

Abbott, J. C. de M. I I 0 Long, E. R. 5 o
Aldridge, A. G. . . 0 IO 0 North Lonsdale Field
Anon. . . . . I IO 0 Club . o 5 o
Anon. (Chiswick) 0 IO 0 Powles, Mrs. F. o 5 o
Bankes, Miss A. o 5 0 Preston, F. W. 2 o o
W H. Bewers o 5 0 Quick, H. E. 0 5 0
Bower, Miss I o o Riccard, Mrs. 0 5 6
Boscombe Girls’ School Robson, Miss o 5 0

(Bird and Tree) . . 0 IO 0 Rousseau, Miss T. ' o 2 6
Brandt, R. .. I IO 0 Saint, Miss I. I. I IO 6
Cammell, Mrs. I o 0 Scott, Miss C. R. or 2 6
Carpenter, F. 0 IO 0 Sexton, Mrs. G 2 6
Carter, Thomas 0 5 3 Spriggs, F. . . 0 IO 0
Clady, Mme.- 2 I2 6 Tallentire, Mrs. C 8 6
Close, Miss K. I 4 o Tardiff, Miss 0 5 0
Cochrane, Miss I o o Ulster S.P.C.A. o 10 o
“ Connie and Jap ” o 4 0 Walker, Mrs. F. o 2 6
Cory, Mrs. . o 5 6 Weekes, Mrs. 0 5 O
Coulman, Edward (for White, F. Y. O 5 0

original of picture Whitney, H. o 4 9

given by Mr. Thor- Willis, Miss F. O 5 .0

burn) . . 21 o o Wiltshire, Miss (thank-
Devas, Miss . . . 0 IO 0 offeringfor saving of
Drummond, W, per 0 IO 0 the penguins) . . 0 2 6
Edmunds, Mr. and Miss I I o Wouldham, Miss O 2 6
Gray, Melville 2 _o 0 Young, L. W. 2 O 0
Herschmann, Miss A. o 10 0 Collecting- -,box per Mrs.
Hodgkinson, Miss 0 10 o Meredyth- -Baker . . o 7 6 -
Hill, Miss D. A. o 3 6 Amts. under 25. 6d. I 6 3
Hudson, F. E. I I 5 6 ‘—
In Memoriam, per . £58 7 9

Miss Herring . . o 2 6 —-—-
Lemon, Mrs. F. E.,per 4 o 0

Fees for Lectures, etc. . . . . I 3 IO 7

 




 

 

 

 

 

44

PLUMAGE FUND.

 

 

 

 

 

ogooooooooooooyz

00000100 0'

OO

6
8

ooooooooooooooooooP'

00000000000000?“

£ 3. d. f, s.
Archer, W. . . 0 10 o Maitland, Mrs. Fuller 2 o
Ashburner, Miss A. M. 0 10 o Mare, Walter de la . I I
Baines, Mrs. . I 0 o Neale, F. W. o 10
Barclay, Miss L. 0 10 o Paterson, Miss O. I o
Beasley, T. C. P. I 0 o Peach, W. S. o 10
Benson, A. C. 2 2 0 Porter, Sydney . I 0
Best, Miss M. 0 IO 0 Rawnsley, Canon (late) 2 2
Borrett, F. C. H. 3 3 0 Ridding, Lady Laura I 1
Bridgman, R. I I o Rodd, Sir Rennell 3 3
Buxton, E. N. 3 0 o Royden, Miss Maude I I
Buxton, The Rt. Hon. Smith, Misses E. & A. o 10
Earl . 2 o 0 Smith, Mrs. Yorke .. 5 0
Carter, Miss B. A. 0 5 0 Somerset, Duchess of I 0
Clifton, Miss. I I o Stevenson, Miss L. M. o 5
Cochrane, Miss I o 0 Suckling, Mrs o 5
Cope, G. C. . . o 5 o Thorburn, Archibald I I
Cory, Lady . . I I 0 Thurston, Miss . 0 5
Coward, T. A. 0 10 6 Townshend, Miss K. 5 o
Elwes, Lt ~.Col aners. 2 2 o Tweeddale Julia Mar-
Elworthy, Miss I o o chioness of . . I 10
Fisher, Mrs. 0 5 o Walford, Mrs. Des-
Fry, Lady . . I 0 o borough 5 5
Galsworthy, John 5 o 0 Walker, H. I 0
Gilmour, Miss . . 3 o 0 Warren, Professor, E 5 I
Gladstone, Hugh S. . . 2 2 0 Watson, C. . 2 o
Gleichen, Lady Warwick, Countess of 10 o
Feodora . I 0 0 Williams, Miss G. I I
Graham, Lady Malise o 10 o Williamson, Mrs. R. W. 5 0
Granet, Hon. Lady 2 2 0 Withers, Mr. and Mrs.
Harmer, Sir Sidney . . I I o Percy . . 2 2
Henderson, Keith 5 o 0 Woodd, Miss E. G.. 0 5
Henniker, Hon. Mrs. 2 o o Proceeds of Meeting
Herdman, Mrs. 4 4 0 at Horsham, per
Hill, H. J. . 10 10 0 Miss Pigott .. 2 5
Hutton, Mrs. I I o Amts. under 28. 6d. 0 17
Jacob, Miss . . o 10 o , ’ ~—-——-
Lawrence, Misses 2 2 0 £127 4 II
Macnamara, Miss o 5 o =
LEGACIES.
The following Legacies have been received by the Society since its
formation: ——
£ 5. d. t.
1900. Miss Baird . 25 0 0 1916. Rev. A. L. Hussey 500
1901. Miss de Wintor . .200 o o 1917. Capt. Tailby . . 1000
1906. Mrs. Buckingham 100 o 0 Mrs. E. Phillips . .500
1907. Mrs. T. R. Munro 10 o 0 Mrs. Edith Scott . .308
1908. Mr. C. E. Geal . 90 o 0 Miss G. F. Packe . .220
Mr. J. J. Morgan. .450 o 0 Miss J. Barker .. Io
Hon. MaryE. Powys 300 o 0 Miss A. G. Christie 20
1910. Miss C. Gilmour . . 50. 0 0 Mrs. M. J. Hudson 25
1912. Miss Hanbury . 20 0 0 1918. Mrs. Paterson . 10
Miss E. M. Sellon 9 0 0 Lt. C. C. Baring . . 5
Mrs. Mundy 5 o o 1919. Miss F. E. Lines . . 10
Miss Wright . . 20 o o 1920. Miss T. C. Dittrich 25
1914. Miss A. M. Everton 20 0 o Capt. S. E. Brock. . 108
1916 Mrs. Welbury Mitton 50 o 0 Miss F. Bayliss 20

The amounts stated are those actually received, the majority of the
bequests having been speciﬁed as free of duty. (Form of Bequest on p. 41.)

 




I _

 

SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR

45

1920.

Fellows are indicated in this list by an asterisk ; the names of Life Associates

are in italics, and of Life Fellows and Life Members in small capitals.

Where

the amount is in italics, it was paid for 1919, but not received during that year.
A blank indicates that the subscription has not been received.

s. d.

BEDFORD.

Allen, W. H.
*BEDFORD, Hrs GRACE
THE DUKE OF . . .
Gaskoin, Mrs. . . . . 5

Gaskoin, Miss M. B.
Higgins, Miss E. K. 5
Hollingworth, M rs. H.
Leeds Smith, E. T.
Osborne, Miss
Timaeus, Miss . . . I
*Wingﬁeld, Miss M. 21

BERKSHIRE.

*Bogle, Mrs. .....
I"Bonnett, Frank. .
Campbell, H. . . . .
Chamberlayne, Miss

M. M ........... 5
EWEN, C. H. L.. .
Gordon, Miss K.. . 2
Hampton, Miss M. 2
Haworth-Booth,

Mrs ........... IO
Hazel, Miss S.. . . .‘ I
Hodgkin, C. E... . 5
Hodgkin, Mrs. . . . . 5
*Kingham, H. F. 20
Lawrence, Miss

. . ........ I
Lindsay, Lady JVIabel
*Loyd, A. K., K.C. 21
*Lyle, Capt. H. D. 80

Mason, John ..... 5
Newton, W. ..... 5
*Ogilvie-Grant,

W. R. ........ 21
Peel, W. Y I
Platt, Mrs. R. . . . .
Pochz'n, M rs. . . . .
Porter, Dr. T. C.. .
Rennie, Mrs.

.( 3 yrs.) ....... 15
Rickett, C. B ..... 5

Roberts, Miss Vere 5

0000 0 00000 00

OO

 

 

s. d. '
*Sarawak, H.H.

Margaret Ranee

of ............ 21 o
*Sawbridge, Miss . 21 0
Smith, Mrs. ..... 2 6
*ST. HILL, MRS. . . 10 o
*Stepney, Hon. Lady

Cowell ........ 21 0
Stone, E. W .......
*Thompson, Mrs.

Arthur ........ 21 o
Verry, Rev. B. T.

(2 yrs.) ....... 21 o
BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.
Adie, Mrs. ....... I o

Allhusen, Mrs. . . .

Baker, Dr. J. C. . . 5 o
Benson, Miss . . . . 2 6
Berrill, Miss E. . . . 2 0
*Boston, Lady . . . 20 o
Burrowes, Mrs. . . 5 o
Byres-Moir, Mrs.
Cadbury, Mrs. H. 5 o
Cain, Miss D. . . . . 2 6
Chesterton, Mrs.

G. K. ......... I o
*Coote, Mrs. S. V. 42 o
Cottesloe, The Lady 5 o
Crosﬁeld, Mrs. . . . 5 0
Craig, Mrs. Cun-

ningham ...... o
Danavall, Mrs. . . . 2 o
Darby, Miss ..... 5 0
Davies, Mrs. Dixon 5 0
Davies, Dixon H. 5 0
*Desborough, Rt.

Hon. Lord 21 o
Geach, Miss ...... I o
Gibbons, Miss . . . . 1 o
Goodlake, Mrs. G.
Gower, Mrs. W. . . .
Hallward, Mrs. . . 5 0
Hanbury, Mrs. . . . 5 0
Harrison, Miss

E. H. ......... IO 0

 

s.

Harrison, Miss
1. C. ......... 5
*Holt-Thomas,Mrs. 21:
Mathews, T. G. . . 5
*Mayall, A. (2 yrs.) 42
Partington, Mrs. . . 2
Patrickson, Miss . . 5
Preston, Mrs. C. . . I.
Rafferty, Mrs. . . . 2

Shepperson, Mrs. . .
Short, Mrs. ...... 5
Skelton, Mrs. . . . . 2

Slatin, Mrs. .....
Smyth, Mrs. ..... 5

Stephens, Mrs. A..
Still, Mrs. John. . 5
Stokes, Mrs. ..... I
Taylor, Miss L. LA. 5
Thorne, Miss E. . . 2
Trueman, Lady Susan
Tuke, Rev. W. M. 2
Vyse, Mrs. Howard 5
Walters, Miss Y. G. 5
Warren, A. ...... 2
White, Capt. J. Bell 5
White, Arnold . . .

Whitﬁeld, Dr. . . . . 5
*Wilson, Lady
Stewart . . . . . . IO
CAMBRIDGE.

*Appach, R. F. .. 21
*Baring, Thomas . 21
Benson, Miss Mary
Benson, Master
. . ........ 5
BIDDER, Dr. G. P.42o
Bidwell, J. E. . . . .
Chaplin, A. E. .
Craske, C ........
Craske, F.
Fletcher, Miss M. E.
Gautrey, H. .....
Glazebrook, Mrs. . .

Uighur-«HMO!

oxoooxoooo 9‘

GO

oowooox O\Ooo O

O

O

O

O

00‘0000000

 

 

 

 

 




 

' Dismore, Miss

 

s.

Guillemard, Dr. '

. . ......... 5

Hemans, Miss . . . . 2
Hill, G. j. .......
Lewis, W.]

Luddington, Mrs.
Parnell, Miss E..1
Pertz, Miss A. J..
Porter, Mrs.
*Rackham, Mrs. . 21
Rogers, G. F., M.D. 1
Royston, E. W. . . 5
Talbot, Miss E. J 1
*Turner, Miss E. L. 21
Woodman, H. M..

CHESHIRE.
*Abbott, N ....... 21
Barlow, F. H. . . . . I

Barett, Mrs. A. . . .
Beazley, F. C. . . . . 5
Billson, E. L. . . . .
Brooklehurst, F. D.
Brown, Mrs. A. . . .
' Brownell, Miss . . . 1
Bulley, Mrs. A. K. 10
Cash, J. J. ....... 5
*Clayton, G. C. . . 21
Consterdine, Rev.
R. H. ........
Cooke, J. H. .....
Coventry, Harold.
Coventry, Henry.
Coward, T. A.
*Crompton, A. . . 2

NUIU'IUI

Dixon, Sir George
Dobie, Miss M. J.
Dockray, J. A..
Dyson, Miss Irene
Evans, J. J. .....
Farr, W. B.
Fripp, Miss
Gardner, Miss . . .
Gaskell, Miss(2 yrs.) 20
Greg, Miss I. M. . . 5
*Greg, Mrs. Walter 21
Haworth, Mrs. J.

0101 NCnLn H

Hug-l

Hendy, E. W. . '. 5
*Hindley, R. T. 21
Horsfall, Mrs ..... 5

Johnson, Rev. J. . . 1
Jones, Miss Wilson 1
Jones, Lewis .....
Kellett-Smith, Mrs.
and Miss ......

000%0000

000000 000000 @000 00010

000000

 

 

46

s. d.

Mackie, Mrs. ..... 10 o
*Manton, Miss M. 21 o
MATHER, CAPT. L.E.
MaWby, W. ......
Moseley, J. F. . . . .
*Newton, Rt. Hon.

Lord ...... , . . . 21 o
Nicol, Miss C. . . . . 5 o
Noble, Miss ..... 2 o
Paton, A. V. .....
*Perrin, J. E. . . . . 21 o
*Pownall, J. A. . . . 21 o
Pownall, Miss . . . . 5 o
Prescott, Miss F. A. 5 o
Rankine, A. G. . . .

Reid, The Rev.

Canon ........ 5 6
Richards, Mrs. . . . I o
Royds, Rev. T. F.,

B. D. .......... 5 o
Speakman, Mrs. M. 5 o
*Stapledon, W. C. 21 0
Stone, P. N. .....

Tate, Miss E. E. IO 6
Tate, Miss M. M. 10 6
Thompstone, Mrs. 5 o
Turner, Mrs. . . . .
Waln, Miss ...... 20 0
Ward, Miss F. . . . . I o
VX7aterhouse, Miss F. 1 o
I/Vilson, M75. ]. K.
CORNWALL.
Alexander, Mrs... 5 o
Birtell, Mrs. ..... 1 o
Calvert, Alfred T. 5 o
*Craven,Lt. G.L.A.
Clijden, Viscozmtess
Harper, C. ....... 2 3
Hermon, Mrs. . .. 5 o
Maddern, Miss F.
Northey, R. H. .
*Nix, A. P. 21 o
Rodd, F. R. 5 0
Rose, Mrs.. ......
Rundell, T. W. . .
RUNDELL, MRS.
T. W.
*St. Levan, Rt.

Hon. Lord .....
Smyth, Mrs. . . . o
Smyth, Capt. H.

R. N. ......... 5 o
Tregarthen, J. C. 5 0
Venning, Capt. C. E. 5 o

 

 

 

Venning, Mrs..
Williams, P. D.

CUMBERLAND.

Arnison, N. H. ..
Arnison, Mrs. N. H.
Beauclerk, Miss . .
*Burrows, Mrs. . .
*Bush, Mrs. .....
Carrick, Miss . . . .
Collison, C. .....
Coulson, Miss
Currie, Miss .....
Davidson, H. A.
Donald, M £53 H. M.
Eaton, Dr.
Hartley, Miss B.
(the late) ......
Hartley, Miss
Howard, Mrs. . . .
Hutchinson, Rt.
Hon. Sir Joseph
Johnston, Mrs .
Lamb, Mrs.
Liddell, Mrs. . . . .
Lindesay, Mrs. . .
Marshall, F. E. ..
Musgrave, Miss G.
Newton, Rev. A. S.
Parminter, Rev.
P. W. ........
Pearson, T. .
Popham, Mrs. Ley-
borne .........
Rawnsley, Rev.
Canon (the late)

00000

'Scholefeild, Mrs. .

Scott, Rev. A.
Sewell, J. ‘ ........
Strang, W. W.
Sutton, Misses .
Tate, Miss E.
Taylor, Miss .....
Watson, Hendry. .
Watson, Mrs. H.
Watson,
Watson,
Watson,

DERBYSHIRE.

Adams, Alfred C.
Allsop, J

Arkwright, Miss E.

#0101

I
5
5
I

IO

UtUiNNUIr—u’m Uni-1m

00

000 0 00000

0000000

ON

00000000 0

@000

 

 




 

 

s.
Bakewell, Miss 5
Binns, Mrs. .....
Boden, Mrs. ..... 5
Briggs, Mrs. Hollis 5
Catt, Mrs. C. W.. ' 5
Chambers, Mrs. . . 2
*Dawson, Fredk. 21
*Dawson, Mrs E. 21
Forsyth, A.
*Gray, H. M. (the
late) .......... 21
Gray, Mrs. and Miss 15
Hall, Miss D. . . I
Hudson, Mrs. C. M. 5
Jeﬁrey, T. C. . . . . 5
Kirk, Chas. ..... I
Lee, Mrs. T. . . . . 2
Maltby. Miss C. A. 5
*Meynell, Mrs. . 21
Midland Rly. Nat.
Hist. Soc. . IO
*Milner, Mrs. W. A. 21
Molineux, Rev.
Canon ........ 5
Naylor, Miss E. _
Naylor, Mrs. Rus-
sell ...........
Olivier, Mrs. A.
*Porter, Sydney 21
Prince, Miss Roby 10
Riley, J. ........
Roach, Miss M... I
Shaw, Miss 5
Simpson, Geo. . . . 5
*Stocks, A. L. . .. 21
Stroyan, Mrs. . . . 5
*Strutt, Hon. Mrs.
G. ........... 21
*Taylor, Mrs. San-
croft ......... 21
Titley, A. ....... IO
*Turnbull, Mrs. P. 21
Vaudrey, Miss V. 5
Vaudrey, Mrs. 5
Wallis, J. B. 5
*VVhiteside, A. B. 21
Wilson, W. B. 5
Wright, Mrs. Fitz-
Herbert ....... 10
Wynne, Nurse 1
DEVONSHIRE.
Barber, Miss .....

Bayly, Admiral L.

09*

000000

00000000 0 00000 00 00 000000000

00

 

'47

Bennett, Miss E. G.
*Briggs, T. H. . 21
Brine, Capt. A. .. 5
Browne, 1W iss M. f.
Browne, Rev. W. B.
Budge, H. ...... 5
Bush, Miss B. M. 5
Carpenter, C. . . . .
CAVE, MASTER DAN 105
Cavendish-Bentinck,

Miss ..........
Chichester, Mrs. . 5
*CHICHESTER, MISS
Chichester, Mrs.

Geo. .......... 5
Chilton, Miss 5
Clements, Mrs. . . 5
Cohen, Miss M. A. 5
*Coombe, Dr. R. 21
Corbett, Mrs. E. H. 5
Cornish - Bowden,.

Mrs.

0000000000

Davenport, Miss
.G. ......... 5
Dill, Mrs. Gordon 5
Dockray, Miss M. B. 1
Evans, H. M. I
Evans, Louis . . . . 5
Evans, Mrs. L.. . 5
Ewbank, Miss A.. 2
Fenwick, Mrs. E. 5
*Ferguson, Miss . 21
*Foster, Mrs. E.. . 21
Fourdrinier, Miss 2

*Galsworthy, John 21
*Galsworthy, Mrs. 21
*Gamlen, Miss M. B.21
Godfrey, Miss W. B.
Greathed, C01. and

Mrs. .......... 2
Hamilton, Mrs. . . Io
Hare, E. H. 5

Hare, Miss C. V. . . 1
Harris, A. J. (late) 5
Hawker, Capt.

H. Gore ....... 5
Hiem, W. P.
Hughes, Miss E. R.

5
Jackson, Miss . . . 5
Kearney, Miss . . . I
Kingdon, Miss I. ‘ I
Lambourne, Miss C. 2
Lange, Miss M.E..F 5
Leng, Misses . . . . Io

*Lindemann, Mrs. 42
Lockyer, Lady .. 5

S.
I

coo?“

0

000000

00000000000000

00000

0 .

000000000

 

s
*Maitland, Mrs.
Fuller ........ 21
Marriott, Major 20
*Matthews, Coryn-
don 21
Mayer, W. ...... 5
Mayer, Mrs ....... 5
Mildmay, F. B.
Molyneux, Rev.
......... 2
Molyneux, C. . . . . 2
Morey, Miss .....
Mudge, Wm ...... 5
Nicolson, Mrs. . . . 5
Oldﬁeld, Mrs.
O'rmerod, M z'sses. .
*Pearson, J. E. 21
Peek, Sir Wzlfred.
Peters, Miss .....
Pleydell Bouverie,
Co]. the Hon. J. 5
Pleydell Bouverie,
Hon. Mrs. . . . . 5
Podmore, Miss C. IO
Portsmouth, Rt.
Hon. Earl of .. Io
Ratford, Miss H. . . 2
Reeve, Mrs- ..... 2
Richmond, Mrs. . 5
Roberts, Miss . . . 1
Russ, Miss ....... 5
Sellon, Miss A. E. IO
Shelley, Lady.
Smith, G. T. B.. 5
Smith, Mrs. B.. . 5
*Smith, Mrs. Yorke 60
Somes, Miss ..... 2
Stenhouse, A. M.. I
Stewart, Miss . . . 15
Stokes, Dr. and Mrs. 2
Strickland, C. E. 5
Thorp, Miss C.
(2 yrs.) ....... IO
Torquay Nat. Hist.
Society ....... 5
Toye, M 75. ......
Tyrrell, Miss A. . 5
Vallings, Miss C.. 2
Vaughan, 114. .
VVallington, Mrs. . I
*Waltham, Miss C. 21
Ward, Miss ...... I
*Watts, Mrs. . . . . 21
Wigram, Mrs. . . . . 2
Willis, Miss S. A. . 10
Withers, Miss M. A. 3
Wright, Mrs. . . . . 5

00

0000000

00000000

0

0

00

00000000

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DORSET.

Allhusen, Miss E. 10
Barrett, Mrs. Bowles I
Blathwayt, Rev.

F. L.

Bond, Mrs. . 5
Bower, Rev. C. .. 5
Cobb, Miss S. M. . . 2o

Cochrarie, G. ..... 21
Curtis, E. Harker
Curtis, W. Parkin-

son . . . . . ...... 5
Dunn, Mrs. A. ..
*Elwes, Lt.-Col.. . 21

L. C ........... 21 .
*Elwes, Mrs. . . . . 21
Gill, Mrs. ........ 2
*GUEST, THE LADY

THEODORA . .
Gundry, Miss F. . . 5
Hannay, Mrs. Cath-

cart 5
Hardy, Mrs. Thomas 5
Kennedy, John .. 5
Kindermann, Miss

A. F.
Little, Mrs ....... 2
MCGILL, MRS .....
Malan, Rev. A. H.
*Palairet, H. H.. 21
Pickard- -Cambridge,

Miss .......... 5
Pike, Mrs. W. S. 2
Pollock, Mrs. H. R. 5
Ricardo, Mrs. . . 5
*Salkeld, Miss . . . 21
Scott, Mrs. E. M. .
Shipley, Mrs ..... 5
Shipley, Miss G.. . 1
Smith, Mrs.

Gregory ....... IO
Smith, H. ..‘ ..... IO
Swafﬂeld, Miss . . . 1
Sykes, Mrs. .....

Webb- -Peploe, C. G.
Wilkes, Lt. H. P.
Wright, Rev. H. L. 2

f

DURHAM.

Addison, J. G..
Allison, Mrs. J.. I
Backhou-se, AIrs. I.

E. ............
Brown, Sir Frank
Drury, Mrs.

0000 O @000 00

0

000

CO 00000 O

COG

 

 

 

 

48

s. d.
Ellsworth-Turner,

Mrs. .......... 5 0
Foster, Miss ..... 1 o
Fothergill, Mrs.

Remington . . . . 5 0
Head, C. A. ..... 5 o
Hodgkin, Mrs. . . I o
Jeffreys, Miss J. . I o
Mounsey, Mrs. ..
Putnam, Mrs. W. 1 o
*Raine, Miss . . . . 21 0
Thompson, Mrs. G. 5 0
Todd, Mrs. Arthur I o
Trotter, Miss . . . .
Welldon, Right Rev.

Bishop, D.D. . .
White, Mrs. ..... 2 6
Wilson, Mrs. S. . . 1 o

ESSEX.
*Allars, R. W. .. 21 o
Bardsley, Miss F .. I o
Beardsley, W. . . . . ,2 6
Bedwell, Miss A. . . 1 o
Bentall, Miss M.. . 2 6
Benton, Donald . . 2 6
Buxtori, E. N.. . . .
Clifford, Mrs. H. . . 5 0
*Clifton, Miss 42 O
Cobbold, Miss . . . . r 0
Craig, A. W ...... 20 o
Craske, A. ...... 1 o
Crowther, A. . . . . IO 0
Cumming, Miss P. 1 6
Curtis, Rev. A. F.
Digby, Hon. Lady
Gibson, 1W iss M. W.
*Green, Lady.
Harvey, B. ...... 1 0
*Herbert, Miss M. M. 21 o
Hetherington, Mrs. IO 0
Horton, Miss M.. .
Hughes, Mrs. . . .. 5 o
*HUNTER, MRS. C.
Lance, Miss A. C. 2 6
Lupton, P. C. P. 5 o
May,MrS..W 5 0
Muter, Mrs. ..... 5 o
*Norris, A. ...... 21 o
Oates, Mrs. .....
Oates, Miss V. E. 10 o
Rhoades, J. & Miss 2 o
Robertson, A. W. P 5 6
Rolleston, Miss E. IO 0
Rowland, D1. P.. . 1 o

 

 

s.
Sack, Major L. S. 2
Skilton, W. G ..... 2
Skilton, Mrs. G.. . I
Spriggs, F. ...... IO
Watts, Mrs. F. .. 1
Watts, Miss ...... 1
Weaver, Mrs.

Baillie- . . ., .....

GLOUCESTERSHIRE.

Beckett, Miss . . . . 2
Bellows, W.. . . . . 5
Bowles, Miss L. I
Brice, Rev. Canon 5
Brocklehurst, Mrs.
Dent
Brown, Miss C. . . 2
Bruton, H. W. . . . .
Cardew, G. A. .. 5
Cattley, Miss ..... 5
Cator, Miss D. ..
Chitty, H., M.S.. .
Cliﬁord, Miss M.
Coates, Mrs.
Crawshay, L. F.. . 2o
Daubeny, Mrs. . . 6
Dent, Mrs. ......
Dobell, R. & Mrs. 5
Button, Hon. and
Rev. Canon . . .
*East, Mrs. D’Esté 21
Evelyn, Mrs. E. B. 5
Fear, W. H. (3 yrs.) 20
Garnett, Mrs. . . . .
Geigy, Mdlle.
Harford, Mrs. H. . . 5
HARFORD, W. A.. .
Harford, Mrs. W. A.

*Herron, Miss . .. 21
Hill, Miss E. D. . . 5
*Hooker, Lady .. 21
Jefferys, T. B. .. 5
M aclean, Donald. 5
Maclean, Hugh .. 5
Mellersh, W. Lock 1
Millard, Mrs. A. . .
Newton, Mrs.

W. H. (late) .. IO

Ormerod, G. F. . . 4o
*Paddison, R. O. P.
Peake, Miss M. . . 2
*Peirse—Duncombe,
Mrs. (late) ..... 21
*Peirse-Duncombe,
Miss E.

§QQOOQP

ooo oo oooc»

000

0000000 09

000

O

 

 




 

 

 

Playne, H. C.. . . .
Pool, Charles . . . .
Pool, Mrs. C.
Reynolds, S. H. . . 2
Richmond, M :35 E.
*Robinson, H. W.
*Searight, Capt. E. 21
Searight, G. L.. . 5
Sharpe, W. R ..... 2
Sibly, Miss M.
(3y S.) ....... 4
Smith,r Miss A. M. 10
Smith, MissE. I... 10
Smith, Miss S. H. 5
*Stangcr, Judge.. 21
Stevens, Mrs. G. . . 2
*Stewart, Miss H. 21
Taylor, Mrs. ..... 10
Thomas, J. J.. . . . 5
Turner, Miss. . . . 1
Vassar-Smith, R. V.
Wadlow, H. J. . . . . I
Walker, Capt. S. N. 5
Waller, Dr. A. W.
Warren, Mrs. R.
Hall ..........
Webb, H. Vicars. . 5
Whateley, Miss C. 2
*Wiggall, P. C. A. 21
5
o

C...

Wright, Major W.
Yorke, Miss D. .. 1

HAMPSHIRE.

Abbey, G.
Adams, Miss J.. . 2
Adams, Hon. Mrs.
Astley-Rushton,

Mrs
*Austen, Lt. L. G.

(2 yrs.)
Banon, Miss ..... 5
Bashford, Col. . . .
Bennett, Miss . . . .
Bennion, Mrs. . . . . 2
Berkeley, Miss B. 5
*Berney-Brown, C.

(3 yrs.) ...... 63
*Bibby. Mrs. . . . .
Blackden, Miss. . 5
Bolam, F. Sydney
Bolton, B. C. . . . . 2
Bolton, Mrs. Rath-

bone .........
Bolton, Mrs. R. D 5
Bolton, T. T. . . 1

00 0000000000 $00

000000

 

49

5"

Boraston, Mrs. . .
Boume, Miss J. M.
Bournemouth Nat.
Sci. Society . . .
Bramston, Miss . .
Brown, Mrs.
Brown, E.
Brown, Miss Gore
Capes, Miss H.
CAgLFEILD, A. ST.

000000000000

WNOHNUI UIUI

Cave, Master R. 1
Chawner, Miss . . . 5
Childs, Mrs. A. W.

Clarke, Capt. G. V. 20
*Clarke, Mrs ...... 21
Cochrane, Miss . . . 5
Coles, R. F
Collis, Mrs. F. W. I
*Connell, Mrs. .. . 21
Corner, Rev. A. E. 5

COX, Miss E. P.. . 6
Cunynghame, Mrs. 5
Cutler, Mrs. ..... 5
Diver, Miss ..... 1
Dodd, P. Vernon,
M.D. ......... 5

*Dresser, Miss . . . 21
Dunn, R. C.
Edwards, Airs. . . .

Ellis, Mrs. Henry. 2
Farquhar, Miss H. 10

Farquhar, Mrs.
H. R. ........ 2
Fidler, Mrs. ..... 5
*Fitton, Mrs. H. . . 21
Fraser, Mrs. ..... I
Galloway, Mrs. J. M. 5
Galloway, Miss
E. M. ........
Gibbons, Mrs. W.
Jacomb ...... 2
Gibson, Dr. .....
Goodchild, Miss . . 1
Greener, Miss I. 1
*Grenfell, Field-
Marshal Lord,
G.C.B. ........
Grifﬁth, Mrs. . . . . 2
*Hadow, Mrs.
Patrick ........ 21
Hagen, Miss ..... IO
*Hampshire Field

Club (2 yrs.) . . 42
Hardy, Miss L. 2
Harrold, Miss . . 1
Harris, A. H. 5

000N000 009‘

00

CO 000 00000000000

00000

0

00

0000

 

s.
Harris, Miss B. . . . 5
Harris, E. S. . . . . 5
Hartley, Mrs. . . . . 1
Hirst, C. T. . . . 5

Hope, Miss R. E.
Hordern, Brig —.Gen
G. V. ......... 5
Jacomb, Misses . . 2
James, Rev. Dr. .. I
*Jenkyns, Lady. 21
Jessop, Miss ..... 2
*Jones, Miss C. A. L. 21
Kelsall Rev. J. E.
Kindersley, Capt.

H. W. ........ 2
Kinnear, Mrs” 2
Le Mowbray, Miss

W. M. B. . 1

Long, Capt. C. E. P. 5
Longstaﬂ, Dr. T. G.
Lowry, Lady . . . . IO
LYNES, CAPT. H.,
R..N .........

McDonald, Mrs. . . 6
Macnaghten, Miss

L. .......... . . 5
Mason, Mrs. B... 5
Merriman, Miss . . . 1
Middleton, Mrs. . . 5
*Mildmay, Lady . .
Mitford, Mrs. and

Miss .......... 2
Moberly, The

Misses ........ 3

Moyers, Miss E. . . 5
New, Miss G. L. 2
Newmarch, Miss L. 5
*Nicholson, Mrs.. . 21
NICHOLSON, R. F.105
Onslow, Mrs. . . . . 1
Patton, Mrs. . . . .
*Peel, Mrs. G. . . . . '2
Penny, Miss ...... 1
PENROSE, F. G,

M. D. .........
*Petitjean, Miss

2 rs.) ....... 26
*Pike, Mrs. L. . . . .
Pontifex, Mrs. . . . 10
Popham, Miss H. I
*Portal, M. R. . . 21
*Portal, Spencer J. 21
*Portal, Sir Wm. 21
Preston, Miss H.

W
* Radcliff—Saunders,
Maj or W ....... 2 1

0900.“

90990.0

99‘

90

9929 9

9009009 9

60

00090 0

Q

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

' s.
Randall, P. M. . . 5
- Rawstorne, Miss . . 7
Renny, W ........ 6
Rogers, Miss N.. . IO

Rooper, Miss . . . .
Rouet, R. De .. 5
Royds, Rev. A. L.

(2 yrs.) ....... IO
Scott, John ...... 5
Scott, Mrs. R. H. s.
*Seacombe, Dr.

A. F ...... . . . .

*Selborne, The Rt.
Hon. the Earl of,
K.G. 21

*Slade—Baker, Mrs. 21

Sony, Mrs. H. S. 5

Southampton
Rambling Club 5

Spear Smith, Miss
(late) ......... 6

Spencer, Miss E. J. IO

Stewart, Mrs. . . . . I
Stiles, Miss ...... I
*Stubbs, Philip S.

F. ............
*Suckling, Mrs. . 21
”Summers Miss (2

yrs .......... 21
Sykes, Mrs. C. E. 5
Tomkins, Miss F.. 5

Tottenham, Miss . 2
*Trevor-Battye, A. 42
Tunnell, Nurse . . . 1
*Turner-Turner, J. 20
Vansittart, Miss
V. E ..........
”Vaughan, Rev.
Canon ........
“"Verner, Miss . . .
Waters, Miss S. . . .
Webber, Miss . . .
Welldon, Miss V.. .
Welsh, Wllliam . .
West, Miss M. N.
*Whibley, Miss
'Wigram, Miss J.
Williams, D. N.
l"Williams, Miss E.
M.

m

N

N
MNHmMMNHHN

Windebank, W.
'Wood, H ..... . . . .
Wolfe, Miss G. .
‘Wright, Miss

0101th

000109“

0

0

00

0 0000000 0 0000

0000000000

00000

 

 

50

s.
HEREFORDSHIRE.

*Astley, Hubert D. 40
*Atherley, Mrs.

Evelyn .......
Banks, Mrs. W. . . 1
Crawshay, Capt. R. 5

Evans, .Miss L.
(late) ... ... ;... 5

Gadesden, Mrs. . . I

Green, Mrs. ..... 2

Parker, Miss K. . . 1
Winton, Miss E. de 2

H ERTFORDSHIRE.

Adamson, Mrs. . . . 5

Barnes, Miss F. . Io
Barrett, Mrs. . . . . I
Bickerton, W. . . . 5
Brett, Miss A. . . . .

Brown, E. T. . . . . 5

Buckingham, Mrs. 1
Buxton, H. F.. . . . Io
*Buxton, J. H. .. 21
Chambers, Mrs. . . . I
*Cherry-Garrard,

A. ............
Clay, Miss M. O. 5
Cook, The Misses. 3
Cope, G. C. (3 yrs.) 15
Crosbie, Miss
Crowdy, M £53 L. C.
Cuthbertson, Mrs. . IO
Debenham, Miss P. 5
Dodds, Mrs ....... 1
Drummond, R. H.

T. ............
Drummond, Capt.

A. G. . ..... 5
Drummond, Miss. 5
Elliot, Miss M.

(2 yrs.) .......
*Evans, J. F. L.
Fenton, Brig. -Gen. I
Fox, Miss

Gilbert, Mrs. ..... IO
Gilliat, ]. S. .....
*Gladstone, Rev.

H. S ........... 21

Gladstone, Mrs. H.

S. ....... . . . . .
Graveson, Mrs. . .
Graveson, W ......
Greene, Mrs. E. . .
Greene, Mrs. . . . . I

d.

000

00000

0 00000 00 0 000 00000 0000

00

 

 

 

Gulland, Miss . . . 2

Hallows, Miss . . . . I

Hammond, Mrs. J.
I.

........... . IO
Heseltine, Mrs. 5
Hill, Mrs. ....... I
Holland, Spencer . IO
Jones, Rev. C. . . . 5
Judson, Miss . . . . 5
Loader, Mrs. . . . . 1
Lowe, Mrs. ......

MacVitie, Mrs. . . . 2
Mawley, Mrs. and

Miss .......... 2
Nickels, Miss E.. .
Norris, Miss ...... 1
*Oldham, Chas. . . 21
*Pam, Albert . . . . 21
Pearson, Misses. . . 4
Perry, Mrs. ...... 2
Poston, Mrs. . . . .
Riddock, Miss C. . . 5
Roberts, Mrs.

Banks

RUSSELL, LADY ELA

Scarfe, Mrs. Her-
bert .......... 5

Sedgwick, Miss. . . 5

*Shaw, Mrs.
Bernard ...... 21
Slater. Mrs ....... I
Staples, Miss . . . . 5
Stenhouse, Mrs. . . . 1
Thompson, Miss M. 5
Timins, Miss E. . . . 5
Tompkins, Mrs. T. I
Watson, Miss ..... 1
Webster, Mrs ..... I
Wynne, Nurse . . . . 1
HUNTINGDONSHIRE.
*Cochrane, Miss F. 21
Dilley, A. G ...... 5

Herbert, M iss .....
*Keep, Miss A. M. 21

KENT.
Abbott, Miss ..... 1
Allchin, J. H ..... 5

*Allen, Ernest. . . . 21
*Ambrose, A. G. 21

oooomoo 0019‘

0

0000000000 00 0 00000 0

0

0000

 

 




 

 

3.
*Arnold, Mrs .....
Assheton, Mrs. N

R. ........... 5
Athill, C. H ....... Io

Atkinson, W. J.. 5
Back, Mrs ........

Baldwin, Mrs. . . . . Io
Barnett, Miss . . . . 2
Bartrum, Mrs .....
BAYLEY, E. H.. . . 5
Beeby, Miss ...... 2
Berrill, Mrs. and

Miss ........ 3
Bergheim, Mrs. . . I
Bevan, Mrs. L.. I
*Brenchley, Mrs

H. ........... 20
Brown, Miss A. C.

(late) ......... 6
Brown, Miss L. . . 5
Bull, John ...... IO
Burnell, Miss A.. . 5

Burrowes, A ......
Burrows, Mrs. . . . . 5
Campbell, Lt.—Col.
*Carnell, J. F. . . . ..
Catterall, Miss M. 5
*Chandos—Pole—Gell,

Mrs. .......... 21
*Chapman, Miss
M. H. F. .. . 21
Chitty, Chas. W. . . 5
Chitty, Cyril ..... 5
Chitty, Edward . . . Io
Chitty, Wilfred. . . 5
Clifford, Miss B.. . 1
Cobb, Mrs ........
*Cockburn, Sir
John A. ...... 21
Compton, Rev. W.
............ 5
Coomaraswamy,
Lady. ........ 2
Cox, Mrs. J .......
Cox, Miss ..... . . . I
Cox, Miss C ....... 2
Cutbill, A. L. . . . . IO
Davis, Mrs. Ran-
dall .......... 2
Drummond, Mrs.
W. C. ......... 2
Easton, Rev. J. G.
(2 yrs.) ....... I5
*Embleton, Miss. . 21

England, Misses. . 2
Fletcher, Miss . . . 1

0000 0 OOO\ OO

O O

OOOOOO

ON 0‘ COO

0000

 

51

So

Forester, Dowager

Lady .......... 5
Fowle, Misses . . . 2
Fowler, Miss S. E.
Galpin, Rev. Canon 5
Godwin, Mrs. . -. . . . 10
Gordon, Mrs ...... 1
*Hall, Miss C. V. 42
Hardy, Right H011.

L.

Hargrave, W H. 5
Hawes, Mrs.
Travers ....... 5
Henderson, Ad-
miral Sir R.. . . . IO
Hills, A. F. ..... 5
Hubbard, Mrs. G..
Huddlestone, Miss
M. C. .........
Jones, Miss E. F.. 10
*Kemna], Mrs.
James .........
Kingdon, Miss C.
A. ............ 5
Latter, Mrs. A.
McMahon-Knocker,
Mrs. .......... Io
Maidstone & Mid.
Kent Nat. Hist.
Society ....... 5
Marsh, A. Gordon 1
*Meade- aldo, E.
G. ........... 40
Morgan, A. B.. 5
*Morley, J..ohn 21

Nation, Miss . . . . I
Newington, C. F.. 2
*Nix, Miss A. . . . .
Nordesson, Miss . . 5
Payne, Miss E. . . . 5
*Payne, H. ”W. . .
Pearson, Misses. . . 2
Power, Miss ......

Record, Miss E. L. 5
Richardson, A. J.. 5
Roscoe, Miss A. . . I
Roscoe, Miss C. . . 6
Roscoe, Mrs. R. . . .

Sich, Miss ......
Southee, Miss M. A. I
Spurling, A ....... 10
Taylor, E. S.

*Thornton, Miss

Thorntbiz: M rs. . F.
Du Pre ........

Toms, P. M. .

010

0000

CO

000

oooooooooooxoooo

 

s.
Twopeny, C. D. . . 5
*Upjohn, W. H.. . 21
Walker, Miss L. A. 2
Walter, Miss F. . . 1
Ward, George. . . . 10
Wear, Miss ....... 5
*White, J. W. B. 21
Wicks, Mrs ....... I
*Wilkin, Mrs ..... Ioo
*VVilson, Mrs. . 21
*WILLIAMS, MRS.

J. B ...........
*Wood, Mrs. Marke
Wood, Mrs ....... 2o

LANCASHIRE.
Adams, H. D. 7
Armour, Alistair. . I
Armstrong, Mrs. S. 2
Ashburner, Miss A.

M. ........... 5
Atkinson, W. G.. I
Baldwin, Miss K.

M. ........... 5
*Barlow, Miss A

E. F .......... . 21
Bleackley. J. . . 2
Bradshaw, Miss N. 5
Bridson, Miss C.. 5
*Bruton, F. A... . 21
Buchanan, Miss

M. ........ 5
Burgess, Miss D. 5
Burrowes, R. B. 5
Butterworth, J. S.
Cain, B. G. ..... 5
Clark, Miss . . . . 2
Collier, Miss A. . . 2
Cooke, Miss A.. . . IO
Costain, Miss F. . . 5
Coventry, Joseph.
Crosﬁeld, Capt. G. 5
Crossley, Dr. A. W. 5
A. Culshaw ......
Davey, Miss ..... 1
De Grey, Frank. .
Dobson, J. ...... 1
Edmondson, J. . . . 5
Edmondson, H. H.
Edwards, W. A.. . 10
Edwards, Mrs. . 5
*England, Major

P. .R .......... 21
*Ferguson, Miss. . 21

OOOOOONOONOOP‘

000

0

000100 000 0000\0 O

OO

 

 

 




 

 

 

“A Friend ” .
Gaskell, Mrs. J. B. I
Gaythorpe, S. B. . .
Gerrard, John . . . .
Gilchrist, P. T.. . .
Cleave, ]. j ......
Greene, Miss H. L.
Gregson, John”
Grime, Miss ......
*Haines, Major G. 21
Halstead, E ......
Halton, H.
Hancock, Miss N. 2
Hankinson, E. E.
Harley, Miss A. . .
Harris, Miss

D. M. N. ......
Harrison, Miss H. 2
Heaton, Rev. J.. . 5
Herdman, Prof. . . 5
Herdman, Mrs. . . 5
Hilton, F.
Holt, Mrs. G. (late) IO
Holt, Miss E.
Hopgood, Miss . . 5
Horton, J. W. .. 5
*Howard, Robt. J. 21
Howard, Miss E. M. 5
Howard, Miss H. . . 5
Howard, Miss L. . . 5
Irvine, Miss E. M. IO
Irvine, Miss ...... ' IO
Junior Beautiful

Oldham Society
Kendal, R. & Mrs.
Kenwright, Mrs. .
Kershaw, Miss . . .
Langton, MissM. G.

(zby s.) ......
‘Lythgoe, Miss M.
Macara, Miss L. E.
Martin, James . . .
Mason, J. H.
Metcalfe, H. C..
Mill, Miss J .......
Mill, Miss E .......
Moxsom, E.
Norris, J.
Ogden, Wm. ..... 5
Philips, Miss A. M. 2
*Pilkington,Miss C. 2 I
Poole, Dr. 5
Preston, D. John” 5
Rawlz'rzs, MissO. M.
Reynolds, Mrs. ]. P.
Robinson, Jas. .. . I
Salisbury, Miss . . . 5

UIU'IUION

N

F:

Ln

0...

Huh)

.....

OO G 00000-

GO

0

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOONO

000000 00000000 000

OO

 

 

 

52

s
Scotcher, J. H. . . . 5
Scott, Mrs. J. R.. . 5
Severn, Mrs.
Severn, Miss (late) 5
Shimwell, I-I.
Simpson, Miss M.L. 5

5
I
5
o

.....

Sykes, Dr. A. B. . .
Taylor, Mrs. E. . . .
Terry, H. L .......
Theakston, H. . . . . 1
Townsend, G. . . . .

Turney, H. B. . . . . 5
*Walker, H. ..... 21
Walker, Miss ..... 5

Walker, The Misses 2
*Wall, G .........
Walmsley, Mrs. D.
Watson, Miss . . .
Welsh, W ........
Welsh, Mrs. W.
Whiff, Miss
White, A.
White, Mrs. A. .
Widdup, as. M.. .
Widdup, oseph . .
Wilding, H. T. W.
Wilcock, John . . .
\Vilkinson, Oswald
Wilson, Miss M. . .
Windei, E. O. . ..
Youatt, Miss . . . . 1

\‘IUI

«««««

UIUIUI UIUIUI

LEICESTERSHIRE.
Bailey, Miss ..... 2
Blyth, Miss ...... 2
*Brooks, Hon.G.B. 21
Browning, Mrs. . . . I
Burton, Miss ..... 1
Butler, Miss ..... 5

*Cartwright, T. B.
Cradock. J. D. . . . .
Charters, Miss . . . . I

Cranﬁeld, Miss A. . 10
Darvall, E. (2 yrs.) 10
*Donisthorpe, Mrs.

B. ............ 21
Ellis, Bernard. 5
Ellis, Miss F ...... 1
Ellis, Miss H. M. . . I
Flude, Miss ...... 5
Flude, Miss J. . . . . I
Frisby, G. ....... I

German, Miss . . . I
Gibbins, B.

000 90 0000 010000 0000?"

0

0000000

000

OOOOOOOOOO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Grewcock, Mrs. . . 1
Griggs, Mrs. F. . .
Hall, Mrs.
Hall, Miss ....... 2
Heron, Miss S. . . .

Hobkirk, Miss . . . . 2
Levy, Miss A. . . . . 1
Marcer, S. W. . . . . 2
Marston, Miss . . . . I
Murray-Dixon, Mrs. 7
N utt, Mrs. T. 1
Overard, Misses 2
Pratt, Mrs. ...... 2
Richards, E. A. . . I
Rumsey, Rev.H.H. 1
*Russell, Hon.
Maud ......... 21
ST. MAUR, LADY
ERNEST . . .
Salsbury, W. ..... 1
Simpson, Miss . . . . I
Simpson,Mrs.T.H. I
Speight, H. H. . . . . I
Stevenson, F. C. W. 1
Taylor, H. ....... 2
Tennant, Hon. Mrs. 5
Turnbull, Mr. and
Mrs. .......... 2

Warner, E. H. . . . 5
Worthington, Miss

F. (2 yrs.) . . . . 2
Wright, P. ....... 5
LINCOLNSHIRE.

Ainsworth, Miss . . 2
Bayldon, Mrs. . . . 1
Bellamy, A. R. . . 5
Collingham, Miss
E..........: 10
COOK, MRS. ROBT. 105
Coventry, Mrs. . . . 2
Cracroft, E. W. . . 5
Cracroft, Mrs. . . . 5
Ellis, Mrs. C.
Giles, Miss
Giles, Rev. E. . . . 5

oooooo

Giles, Mrs. ...... 5
Grant, S. M. ..... 5
*Heneage, Lady . . 21

Hudson, Rev. J. C.
Myddelton, T. C. 5
Noyes, Miss B. . . . I
Rawnslev, E. P. . .

*Sibthori), C. C. . . 21

OO 0.

0600000 0 OOOOOONO©001

00

00000 00000 000

CO

 

 




 

 

5.
*Swan, Lt. -Col.

R. . . . . ......
Thompson, Mrs. . . I 5
Tumor, Lady

Mary ........
Williams, Mrs. and

Miss .......... 2

Wright, Mrs.

LONDON, E.

Gardner, Miss C. S. 5
Glegg, W. E.
*HANBURY, J.
Jevons, Miss H. W. I
*Newmarch, F. W.
Nicholson, C. . . . .
Nicholson, Mrs. C. I
Robinson, G. D.. . I
Webb, W. (late). . 2
Wicksteed, T. S. . . IO

LONDON, E.C.

Evans, Miss C. P. . I
Feamsz'des, ]. W.

*Lilley, Cecil W. . . 21
Macrae, C. C

(2 yrs.) ...... 20
*RIDGERS, H.
Ross, Mrs. S. . . . . 2
Smith, E. P .......
Street, R. W. . . . . I
*Tyndale-Biscoe,

Miss F ......... 21

LONDON, N.

Austin, Stanley . . 5
Barnes, Miss ..... 2
Barrow, John . . . .

Brinton, T. H. . . Io
Carr, Miss ....... I
Dryden, Miss E. . . I
*Elder, Miss ..... 21

Ellis, Miss M. J. . . I

Elphinstone, J. . . . 5
Fry, Miss M. . . . . 5
“F. R.” ......... 5
Garnett, Mrs. R. S. I
Gilbert, Mrs. .....

*Gleghorn, T. R. . 2I
Goodyear, F. . . I 5
Hall, Mrs. F. T. I

00

0000000

000000009 GO

GO

 

53

&

Herdman, Mrs. J.

O. ............
HERDMAN, J. O.
Hetherington, Miss I
*Hodge, Miss ..... 21
Hodges, J. E.. I
Hutton, Mrs. . . . . I
Jersey, J. H. R. de 10

Main, Miss ...... I
Marston, Miss E. . . 5
Masham, Miss E. . . 5
Masterton, Mrs. . . I
May, Col. H. A. R. 5
May, Mrs. ....... 5
Moore, Miss A. . . 2
Morris, Miss ...... I
Morton, Miss . . 2
Parker, Miss A. . . I
Parker, G. H. . . . . I
Petch, Miss ...... I
Pike, Mrs. ....... I
Potter, B. .......

Rushbrooke, W. G.

Sillar, Miss ...... 2

Smith, Miss A. F. 21
Speedy, Miss . . . . 2

Toms, Miss ...... 2
Vincent, Mrs. H. S. 5
Walsh, Mrs. ..... 6

Weber, Mrs.(2 yrs.) IO
Williams, Mrs. . . . . 5
Withall, Mrs. Henry 2

LONDON, N.W.

*Baily,Mrs. Walter
*Baines, Mrs. F. E. 21
Bradby, Miss M. K. 10
Burt, Miss M. S. . . I
Butler, Mrs. H. . 10
*Christian, Miss

AliceM. 7 ..
*Christian, Miss

Agnes M. ......
Craven Jones, Mrs.
Craven Jones, Miss I

H

Drummond, Mrs.
J. C. ......... 5
Gardner, E. L. 6

Gardner, Miss M.. 2
Goldﬁnch, A. H. . .

*Gow, Rev. H. .. 21
Greenhalgh, J. H. 2
Hall, Miss L. S. . . 5
Hamer, Mrs. (2 yrs.) 2

d.

O

oooomooboooooooooo

GOOOOOGOO

000 0 00000

000

0000

 

s.
Heywood, Mrs

Beresford .....
Hill, Miss C. .. . . 5
Hill, Miss C. L. . . 25
Hutchinson, Rev.

H. N. ......... 5
Johnson, Mrs. W. 2
Jones, Rev. F. H.

and Mrs. ...... 2
Kennedy, W. . . . .
Kinder, Miss S. E. I
Lachlan, Mrs. . . . . I
Leech, Miss E. . . . I
Odell, Rev. R. W.
Phillott, Miss E. P. 2
Pickard, B. .....
*Pinkham,Aldermn.
Pritchard, Miss E. IO
Rintoul, Mrs. . . . . I
Roberts, Miss A. H. 2
Roscoe, Mr. and

Mrs. .......... 2
Selby, Miss H. M. I
SELDON, H. S. . . .
Simmons, Miss N.

J. ............ 5
Storer, Mrs. ...... IO
*Stracey Clitherow,

Mrs. C. ....... 21
Theobald, H. L. . . 5
Walker, Mrs. G. . . 6
Walters, Mrs. . . . . 1
WHITAKER, MISS H.
*Wild, Miss ..... 21

- Wilson, Dr. A. . . . 5
Wilson, Mrs. A. . . 5
VVOOd, Frank

(2 yrs.) ....... 10

LONDON, S.E.
Aitken, Mrs. ..... 10
*Allen, Mrs. Ashton 21
*Ashley, F. W. .. 21
Auldjo, Miss ..... IO
Baldwin, Miss F. I
Bodle, Miss ...... I
Bull, Frank ..... 6
Crawford, Mrs. '. . . I
Davey, A. C. . . . . Io
Davies, Miss M. K. I
Daybell, G. ..... 5
Derry, Miss E.. . . . Io
Dewick, Miss . . . . I
Earnshaw, Miss . . 2

0000 00 @OO 00 000

'00::

@OOOOGOOOOOOOO

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Ford, Mrs. C. W. . .
Grifﬁth, Dr. P. G.
Grinling, C. H. . .
Hallows, Miss . . . .
Hanwell, Miss E. . .
Harvey, ’Miss H. . .
Horne, Miss M. F.
Iago, Miss
Leggett,
Beauchamp
Lemon, Miss A. . .
Lemon; Miss E. C.
LINDLEY, MIss .
Marriott St. John
*Mathwin, Mrs. .
Moore, A .........
Morris, Miss E. M.
Noakes, Miss . . . .
*Perry, Miss J.
Russell, F.
Sanderson, Rev. F. 5
Schneider, Mrs T. 2

A N
MOHHHHM mum

*Smalley, F. . 21
Stone, Mrs. ......
Summerﬁeld, Miss 5
Stokes, Mrs .......
Thomson, Mrs. . 5
Thomson, Mrs. L. . I
Trist, 11475. F. B. . .
Tunnard, Mrs.

H. S. .........
Walters M1ss I
Wells, Miss ...... 5
Wiltshire, Miss . . . 2
Zoutmann, A. . . . . 2

LONDON, S.W.
Acland, Lady

Adlam, Mrs. Har
ford ..........

*Aird, Sir John
Bart. .........

Alexander, Mrs.

......... 2

*Allen, A. L. .....

A llanso n- Winn,

Hon. H. M. . . .
*Ascherson, C. S.. 21
*Ascherson, Mrs.

......... 21

:Baillie— Weaver, H. 21
*Barrington, Hon.
Lady .........
Bell, Miss K. .. .. 5
Bennett, G. W. . . 5

U1 H H 1051010101 f”

000 ooomgooo?‘

0000000000

0

CO

@000

000

 

 

 

 

 

54

Birch, Major A. W.
Blore, Cosmo . . . .
Brett, Miss ......
*Brett, Mrs. . . . . . . 2
Brewer, A. R. . .
Brewer, Miss F. E.
Bright, Miss E. . . 2
Bright, Miss G. . .
Brooks, Mrs.
*BROTHERS,MISS H.
Carfrae, Miss . . . . 2
Cole, H. M.
COLE, MISS E .....
*Coleridge, Hon.
Stephen .......
COLLISON, H.
Coppinger, Mrs. . .
Court-Treatt, Mrs.
Cruikshank, R. . .
Cruikshank, Mrs. . .
*Curzon of Kedles-
ton, Rt. Hon.
Earl .......... 21
D a m e r— Dawson,
Miss (late) . IO
Dike, Miss ....... 1
Dolley, C.
Doran, Miss M. E. 5
*Dugmore, Major
A. R.

HHHUMHMVMP

umuu

J-
Elliott, Miss E. E. I

Epps, Mrs. ...... 5
'Essex, P. C. ...... 10
*Fairholme, Miss

M. E. ........ 21
Fairholme, Mrs. .. 5
*Firth, J. B ....... 60

Fisher, Mrs ....... 5
FOX, Rev. Preb... 5
*French, Miss I. M. 21

Gardiner, Miss . . . 5
Gardiner, Miss L. 5
Gilham, H. ...... 5
Gleichen, Lady
Feodora .......

GLENOONNER ,LADY
*Goodliffe, C a p t.
M. H. S
GORDON, MIss V.
*Gray, Mrs. Hunter 22
Gray, Robert . . . . 2

Hambledon, Rt.
Hon. Viscount
Hamilton, Miss
M. S. ......... 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

d. s. d.
0 *Harvey, T. E. .. 21 o
6 *Heath, R. E. .. II o
O HEROHMER,1\TISS .
g Hobart Hampden,
0 Mrs. .......... 1 o
o Hollond, Miss M. . .
o Holt, Eardley- Wilmot
0 Hughes, Miss A. . . 5 o
Latter, Miss E. . . . 1 O
o Lefroy, Mrs. C. P.
0 *Le Marchant, J. G. 21 o
*Leigh, Mrs
Hamilton . . .. 21 0
Leon, Mrs. ....... 5 o
*Lilford, Clementma,
0 Lady ......... 21 o
o Ling, K E ...... 5 0
O Loyd, E. W ....... 5 o
O Lush, The Misses IO 0
Lyster, Mrs. G. . 5 O
Lyttelton, Hon. and
0 Rev. E. .......
Mace, Miss ...... 5 o
O Mace, Mrs. ...... I O
o MACKINTOSH, MIss
O *Macmillan, Geo.A. 21 o
O Maseﬁeld, H. V... 5 O
Massingham, Mrs. 5 O
0 May, R. W. (2 yrs.) 10 O
./ *Maxwell, Rt. Hon.
0 Sir Herbert, Bt. 21 O
o I Meanley, Miss . . . . 1 O
O! *Melvill, MissE. H. o
6 Millar, MissF. E.. 22 6
I MILWARD, MRS. 105 o
0 Moor, Miss M ..... I o
O 1 *Mount- -Stephen,
0 Lady ......... 271 o
o { Mitchison, Mrs. ’
o I ........ 5 O
o ( *Murray, Sir C.
o i Wyndham .....
o 1 *Murray— Smith,
0 Mrs. ....... 21 O
lNevill,A The Lady
George ........
0/ N01they, MissL. A 5 o
Onslow, F. R. D. 5 o
Orr-Ewing, Lady. 5 o
*Page-Croft, Brig. -
0 Gen. H. M....P 21 o
6 *Page, L. B. 21 O
Palmer, Mrs. . . . . 5 0
*Parker, Hon. Mrs.
0 *Patterson, W H. 20 o

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

S.

Peirse-Duncombe,
Miss .......... 5
Perc1val, Mrs ..... 5

Platt, Charles . . . . 5
Pollock, Miss E. . .

*Pollock, Miss L. . . 21
Probart, Mrs. . . . .
Rackham, M. . . . . 5
Radcliffe, L. C. . .
Richards, Miss

S. L. S. ...... 5
*Roberts, Mrs.

Bertie ........ 21
Roberts, Mrs. . . . .
Robertson Mrs.

D. D. ........

5
Rudge— —Harding, J. 5
*Russell, Harold.
Russell, Miss J. . . 2
Russell, Miss E. . .
*Rutland, His Grace
the Duke of . . . .
Sainthill, Mrs. . . 2
Scarisbrick, C. E. 5
Scarisbrick, Mrs.
Sclater, W. L. .. ..
Scott, Lady ......
Scovell, Lt.-Col.
G S

*Seagrave, Miss . . 21
Sharman, J .......
Slater, Miss ...... I
Smith, The Misses 2
Smith, Miss Ford I
Smith, L. Pearsall
(3 yrS-)
Sparrow, Lt.-Col. . 5
Spender, H. E..
*Stephens, E. J.
Tayler, A. A. 42
Taylor, Miss B. K. 5
Thruston, Miss .. 5
Thruston, Mrs. and
Miss O ........
TREVELYAN, MRS. G.
*Tweeddale, The
Most Hon. Julia
Marchioness of 42
Vernham, Jiliss R.
Vialls, Miss K. M. 5

I0

*Waite, Mrs. . . . . 21

*Walford, Des-
borough ...... 2 I

*Walford, Mrs. Des-
borough ....... 21

Walker, Mrs. P. . .

000

0000000 000 O OO\O @000 OO

O

 

 

55

s. d. '
Wallace, Dr. ’Wm. 10 o
Wheelwright, Miss

E. G .......... o
*VVhite, Lt. -Col. .

Dalrymple . 21 o
Wilson, Mrs. H. J. 5 o
Wyllie, Lady . . . . IO 0

LONDON, W.
Allchin, Lady. 5 o
Allport, Miss E.

Archer, W. ......
Archer-Houblon

Miss M ........ 2 6
*Austen, Leslie . . .
Baxter, Mrs. Flem—

ing ............ IO 0
Bergne, Lady . 2o 0
Best, Mrs. Rodger
*Best, Miss M. 21 O
Bevan, Miss ..... 2 o
BISHOP, MISS . . . .
Blaine, Capt. G. . 5 O
Boardman, Mrs. .
Boswell, Mrs. Bruce I O
Brailsford, Miss

M. B. ........ 1 0
Brock, Miss ...... 2 6
Brooke, Mrs. A. . 2 6
Browne, Miss Leigh 10 O
*Buchanan, Mac-

Iver .......... 21 o
Bullock, Miss E. J. 2 O
Burgoyne, Miss . .
*Byas, Miss ...... 21 0
*Cameron, Miss '. . 21 O
Candia, Miss Y. de 2 6
CANZIANI, MISS ..

Carr, Miss ...... O
*Charlewood, E. P. 21 0
Clarke, Mrs. ..... 1 o
Chynoweth, [Miss .
Coombe, Miss F. M. I O
Cracroft, Mrs. R.

W. ........... 2 6
*Crauford, Countess

Dowager of.

Crook,.WM..... O
*Crooks, Fleming 21 O
Cruickshank, J.A I 6
CROWDER, MRS.
Currie, Lady . . . .
Danavall, Mrs. 2 6
*Drewitt, F. D.

M. D. ......... 21 o

 

 

s.
*Drewitt, Hon. Mrs. 4.0
Du Faur, Miss . IO
ELDON, RT. HON.
EARL OF ......
*Fairless, Miss . . . 21
*Found, W. E... 21
*Freemaﬁ, H. A. 21
*George, Miss D. R.
Glover, Miss E. 10
*Gosse, P. (4 yrs.) 84
Graham, Miss J.
*Greene, Sir W.
Graham ....... 21
Greville, Miss C. . . 1
*Grove- -Grady, Mrs. 20
Gunning, MissF. T. 2
*Guthrie, Mrs.
Murray ....... 21
Harris, H. B. .. .
Haywood, Miss. 2
Heatley, —— 1
*Henderson, Keith
*Henniker, Hon.
Mrs. A. ....... 21
Herejmt/z, Col. . . . .
Higgins, Miss W.
Hitchings, Miss B. I
*Hodge, Harold . 21
*Hodges, MissA. B. 42
Holcombe, Miss . . I
Hole, D. K. . . . . . 5
*Holme— Sumner, F.
*Hooper, Wynnard 42
Hudson, W. H. 10
Hudson, Mrs. W. H.
(late) .......... IO
*Hunter, Mrs.
Robert ........ 21
*Jacob, Miss . . . . 21
*Janson, Capt
W. ........ 21
Jeafferson, Miss. 5
Jefferson, Miss G.
*Jefferson, Mrs... 21
Keep, Miss A. E. . . 1
Kemplay, Miss . IO
Lecky, Miss E.. . . 5
Lawder—Eaton, Mrs.
LITTLEJOHN, MISS
H - ........
Long, Capt. A L. 5
McGrigor, Miss M. I

*McMillan, Lady”

*MACPHERSON, A.
HOLTE ........

Maroon, Miss . . . .

c7109

00

QC

@000

O

00"

0‘1 0‘0 QQOOQ O

OO 00

00100

O

 




 

 

 

Matthews, Sir Her-
bert
Matthews, Lady. . 5
Matthews, L. G. . . 5
M aynm/d, Miss. . .
*Miles, A. 0. . . 2
*Miles, Mrs. A. 0. . 2
Moore, Miss K.
Morgan, the Misses
Morrison, Mrs.
*Mortimore, Miss
Nisbet, the Misses
NOBLE, A. H. P.. .
O’Connell, _._., . . 1
PAGE, ROBERT PAL—

GRAVE ........ 105
Parry, Miss J. A.
Pass, Miss 0. de . .
*Pattinson, Mrs.

G. H.
Percy, Miss M. . .
*Pollock, Rt. Hon.

Sir Frederick, Bt. 21
*PORTLAND, HER

GRACE DUCHEss

OF ............
Power, Mrs. Godfrey I
Roberts, L.
*Rodd, His EX. the

Rt. Hon. Sir

Rennell ........
Rollestou, Lady . . 5
*ROTHSCHILD, HON.

CHARLES .......
Rowe, L. T. 5
*Russell, Conrad 21
RUSSELL, Mrss F.
*Savory, W. H. 21

mmmHH

N

.....

Sawers, Miss E. . . IO
*Seaforth, Rt. Hon.
Lord .......... 21

Seton, Sir M. C. 5

*Shadwell, Miss
(late) ......... 21
*Sharpe, Montagu 42
*Sharpe, Mrs.
Montagu .......
Somerset, H e r

Grace Duchess of
Stevenson, Miss F. 5

Sturt, Miss ..... . 2
*Syers, Edgar. . . . 21
Taylor, Major C.

O. L. .........
Thornhill, Miss

(3 yrs)

00

00000

O

0&0

 

 

56

*Townshend, Miss

Treherne, Miss . . . 1
Troubridge, Sir

Thos., Bt. ..... 5
Teower, H Sey-
mour .........

*Turner, E. F. . . 21

Udale, S. ........ 5

Vaughan, Miss E.
St. J. ......... 1

Ward, W. H IO

A.
Williams, Dr. Muzio 5
*Wright- ~Anderson,
Miss .......... 21

LONDON, W.C.

*Bell, Ernest . . . . 21

Boddy, A. ...... 1
Burgess, Mrs. . . . . 5
Burgess, Frank . . 5
Craig, A. F. . . . . 5
Creswell, Mrs. . . . I
Deey, Miss ...... 2

Douthwaite, D. W.

Gaskell, Miss W. . . 5
*Green, Roland . . 21
Murphy, Miss . . . . 5
*Partington,MissV. 21
Sharples, Miss E. 1
Shore, A. Cameron 2
Snell, ——., ...... I
Watt, H. B. 5
*Weston, James. . 21

MIDDLESEX.
*Blyth, R. O. . . . . 21
Briggs, H. S. 5

Burgess, Miss . . . . 2
*Carlyon, A. K.. .
Charles, Mrs.

Stafford .......
Crawford, Mrs. . . .
Creighton, Mrs. . .
Dyson, Miss P. . .
Edwards, L. . .
Ellis, G. M.
Geldart, ———. . . . .
Gilbert-Cooper,

Mrs. C ......... I
Gilbert— Cooper,

E. G.

NNM mmm

COO OOOOOOOOO 0000000

000

000

 

 

 

Gilbert-Cooper,
R.

G.
Grifﬁn, H. T.
Knight, A. C. .. 5
*Henrey, Miss

K. H.
Law, Mrs. E.
*Ogilvie, Mrs. .
Restall, Mrs W.
Sanford, Mrs.
Scogings, H. D...
Snepp, Mrs. ......
Trotter, the Misses
Turvey, C. and Miss 2

Vassall, A. ...... 5
W'orsley, F. ..... 5
Worthington, Mrs.
*Whitehead, J. A.
NORFOLK.
Barber, Miss M. . . 1
Bird, S. G. ...... 5

Boswell, D. R. . . . I
*Bradley, T. W. L. 21
*Buxton, G. F. .. 21
Buxton, H. E.

Caton, Rev. R. B. 5
*Colman, Miss 21
*Colman, Miss H. C. 21
Crabbe, Miss A B. 5
*Culpeper-éllayton,

W.

..... 21

Daw,s WV. BS. . . . . 5
Diver, Miss ]. ..
*Fisher, Captain

W. L. T. ...... 105

Goodwin, Miss . . . 1

*Graham, Mrs. . . 21
Gurney, Mrs. R.. . 5
Gurney, ]. H.
Howes, C. J. A.,
and Mrs. ...... 2

Howes, Miss E. . . I
jodrell, Sir A., Bt.

Lamb, Miss A. M. 5
Lee-Warner, H. . .

Long, Dr. S. H. . . 15
Morton, Mrs. A. . . 10
Nicholson, W. A. . 2

Porcher, Mrs. . . . . 5

Sowels, Miss A. .

Stimpson, E. (4
yrs.) ........... 20

ooxco~

0000

COO

0000 00 0000 00000

OO

O

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Stuart, .Mrs.
Upcher, H. T. S. I
Ware, Mrs. H. Webb

Watling, Miss E. I. I
Wells, Mrs. ...... 5
Willis, Mz'ss E. L 5
Winearls, Miss V. . I

ggggg

*Wormald, Mrs.
Hugh ......... 2 1
N ORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

Bates, Frank . . . . I
Bevan, Miss ..... 5
Bond, E.
*Booth, Miss B. . . 21
Birch, F. T. P. .
Brown, Miss E. J. 5
Burdett, H. P. . . . 5
Gotch, Mrs. I
*Hastings-Lees, T. 21
Hawkes, S. (2 yrs.) 2
Jacques, Miss K. 2
5
I

Keely, Mrs. .
Layman, Miss A. M.
LILFORD, RT. HON.

LORD .........

*Osgood, Mrs.
Irene ......... 21
Pleoz'ns, W. M.
Smith, Miss ..... I
Timpson, Miss. . . . I
Wickstead, C. . . . . 2
Wicksteed, Miss . . I
Wicksteed, R ..... 2
Wyatt, Miss ...... Io
NORTHUMBERLAND.

Barnett, Mrs. . . . . 5
Browne, Miss E. M. 5
Carr-Ellison, Mrs.

G. ............ 5
*Clayton, Mrs. . . . 4o
*Cruddas, Miss . . 21
Douglas, Lady . . . 2
*Grey of Falloden,

Rt. Hon. Vis-

count ......... 42
Hall, Miss J. M. . .
Hodgkin,Mrs.T.E. 5
Lightfoot, Miss

M. F. ......... 5
Lowry, Miss E. 5
Oliver, Mrs .......

0000

000100000 0000 o

0

000000

00

@000

O

 

57

*Pitman, Miss . . . 5
Ridout, Mrs. A.. .
Scott-Hopper, Miss

............ I
Stirrat, Miss M. C. 5
Weddell, E ....... 5
Wood, Mrs. ...... 5

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

*Alderson, D. F.

(2 yrs.) ....... 42
Barber, Miss G. E. 5
Blandy, Mrs. I... . 6
*Bradley, T. L. . . 21
*Bradley, Mrs. . . . 21
Bradshaw, Misses . 4

Browne, Mrs. . . . . 2
Dowson, Mrs.
Gerard ........ Io

Dowson, Gerard . . Io
Fletcher, Mrs. R. . . 2
Forbes, .M rs. .....
*Galway, Rt. Hon.

Viscountess (late) 42
Goddard, W. E.

(2 yrs.)
*Griggs, Mrs. J. . .
faoob, Miss F. H.
Haslam, J. (4 yrs.) 20
Herbert, Miss R. 10
Marriott, Miss . . . . IO
*Neale, F. W. .. 21
Otter, R. C.
Oxley, Mrs.
Peach, W. 8.... 5
Peach, Mrs. W. S. 5
*Pelley, Dr. A. M. le 21
Plumb, Miss ..... 10
*Robinson, Lady .
*Rochetta, Coun-

tess della
Selby, J. 8. ......
Ward, Miss W. T.

OXFORDSHIRE.

00000

Barne, Mrs.

*Broughton,
Rhoda. (late) . . 21

Burrowes, Capt.

A. B. ......... 5
Early, C. W. 5
Gifford- Ambler, Mrs. 5
Hardy, Miss B. G. I

09‘

0000

000 GOOOOOO

0000

@0000

 

S.

HUXLEY, J. 8. ..105

Loveday, Miss M. 2
Marlborough, His

Grace the Duke of
MASON, LADY

EVELYN .......
Mason, Miss R.

(2 yrs.) ....... IO
*Noble, Leonard. . 42
Oakeley, Miss C. M. 20
*Ogle, B. S. ..... 21
Phillimore, Miss. . I
Prater, Miss C. . . .
SELINCOURT, MRS.

BASIL DE
Tufnell, Mrs. . . . . 5
WATNEY, V. J.

*VVOOldridge, Mrs. 40

SHROPSHIRE.

Bateson, Mrs.
Gordon (2 yrs.) IO
Clay, Miss E. M.

(2 yrs.) ....... Io
Forrest, H. E. . . . .
Gardner, Dr. H. W. 5
Hardy, Mrs.

H. F. H. ..... 21
Horsfall, G. H. .. 5
Kynnersley, Mrs.

T. (late) ...... Io
Malpas, A. E ..... 5
Pitt, Miss F. .....

POSTGATE, MISS I.
RIPLEY, SIR HENRY,

Shaw, H. C. M. . .
Smith, W. H.
Stanier, Sir Beville

Wayne, Mrs. E- F. I

SOMERSET.

*Allen, Mrs. Arthur

Arengo'Jones, Mrs, 5
Ash, Mrs. Hargood I
*Badham, Mrs. . . . 21
Bagnall, Mrs. . . . . 5
*Bagnall-O’Cahan,
Mrs. .......... 4o

Bere, Mrs. J. H.. 5

*Bonham- Christie,
Mrs.

Bramley, john . . .

000000

0000

00

 

 




 

 

 

 

s.

Bridgwater Field
Club .......... 5

Brooke, M rs. .....

Bulleid, Dr. A. . . . 5
Bush, Mrs. ...... 5
Cecil, Lady Francis 5
*Chambers, Mrs.

Ernest ........ 21
*Charlemont,

Countess of . 2o
Chataway, Mrs.

H. M. ........ I
Clerk, Mrs. A ..... 5

Cobbold, Mrs. S. 2

Cochrane, Mrs.
Morris ........ 5

Cox, H. ......... 5

*Dawson-Lambton,
Miss E ........ 21

Down, Mrs.

Thornton
Dyson, John . . . .
Eberhardt, Miss . . 1
Everard-Hutton,

Miss . .
*Footner, H ......
Fox, Miss A. P. . . 5
Fox, Miss C. M. . . 2
Fripp, Miss Elton .
*Fry, Lady ...... 21
*Gilbert, Miss . . . . 21
Graham, Miss . . . . I
Greenly, E. .....
Greenly, Mrs. E. . .

*Grubb, John . . . . 21
Hambrough, Miss
M. E. ......... 5

Harris, Miss L. M. 5
Harison, Mrs.
Hickley, Miss . . . . 5
Hodgkin, Miss E.

H.
Hook, Mrs.
Hotchkis, Miss . . I
Hudleston, Mrs. . .
Hutchinson, Misses 2
Jackson, Miss H. 2
King- Harman, Sir

Charles ....... 5
Lambart, Miss . . . 5
Langford, Miss F. 1
*Lawder, Lt. E. F.,

R. N. .........
Lethbridge, Mrs.
Menendez, Sir

Raymond ..... 5

Meredith, Miss . . . 2-

000 0 000

00

00 00@ 0000 0 000 @000 0

00

 

58

Q
Q

*Muntz, Miss C. B.
Murly, Mrs. W. . . .
Norman, Mrs.
Norman, Miss I.
Oxley, R. B. .....
Perham, Rev. John
Perress, Miss

Pike, Rev. C. E.
Platt, Mrs. E.
Pollard, Mrs.
Price, Mrs.
Randall, Miss H. .
Randall, Miss A. . . I
Robinson, Miss . . .
Robinson, Miss K. 2

HUI NUIUIUIUI H

Rossiter, Mrs. G.

F. ............ 5
*Savery, Mrs. . . . . 21:
Sibly, 1142's.; A. M.
Sibly, Miss B. . . . . 2
Smith, Mrs. W. E. 10

*Somerset' Arch. &
Nat. Hist. 800.,
Northern Branch 42

*Spender, Miss E. 21

Stevens, MissE. O. 5

Sturge, Mrs. W. A. 5

THARP, MRS.
ARTHUR .......

Vasey, Miss N. . . .

Vaughan, Miss . . .

Venner, Mrs. . . .

Vialls, Miss H. S.

Waller Mrs.

Watson, Wm.

Williams, Miss O.

Winckworth, Dr.
W. B. ........

meH

MOI

*Young, W. Eaton 21

STAFFORDSHIRE.

Bearblock, Mrs. P. I
Beardmore, A. E.
Berrington, Mrs.
W.E ........
*BOLTON, E. J. . .
Bolton, F. A ...... 2
Bolton, Mrs. R. D. IO
Bolton, Miss R. F. 2
Bown, Miss F. . . I
Bradbury, Miss B. 1
Colley, Mrs. ..... 2

' Colley, Misses . . 2

9'

00000000000000

00

0000 0000 00

00

0

OOOOQOQ

 

s.
Cornish, Miss . . . . 5
Edridge, The Misses IO
Elliott, Miss E. M. 5
Elliott, E. ....... 2
Fraser, Miss S. . . . 5
Harrison, Rev. A. R. I
Heath, Mrs J.. . 2
Heatley, Miss H.
Hewins, Miss C. A. I
Heywood, Mrs. R. 2
Jackson, MissH. M. I
Lavender, Mrs. 1
Leal, Mrs. ....... I
*Maseﬁeld, J. R. B. 21
McLachlan, Mrs. . . I
Morgan, S. W. .. 5
Pearce, A. . . 2
Phillips, H. T. . . 2
Poulton, Miss .. I
Rawlins, Miss C. H. 5
*Roscrow, Miss M. 21
Snape, G. ....... 2
*Staveley-Hill, Lt.-

Col. H. .......
Wade, Miss O. . . .
Wade, Miss A. J.
Wilson, Mrs. ..... 5
Wood, Mrs. ...... I

SUFFOLK.
Barney, Miss ..... I
Brown, Miss E. H. I
Bland, F. L. I0
Burrell, F. ......
Carey, Mrs. . . . . 5

Clodd, Mrs. E. 5
*Cobbold, A.Town-
shend ......... 21
Coxhead, Brig. -Gen.
A

J. ........... 5
Floyd, Mrs. J. I
Forster, C ........ 5
Forster, Mrs ...... 5
Goodall, Miss E. E. I
Heycock, Miss

(2 yrs.) ....... 2
*Holden, Mrs.

Luther (late) . . 21
*Hustler, W. R.

(2 yrs.) ....... 42
*Malcolm of

Poltalloch, Lady 21
Miller, H. ....... 5
Poole, Mrs. . . . . 5
Rope, G. T. ..... 5

0000000?“

OOOOQOOOOOOOGO

000

0

0 0 00000 0

0

0000

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Shilcock, Miss J. . . 10

*Syrett, R. J. C.

(2 yrs.) .......
Tuck, Rev. J. G.
*Turner, Hugh . .

SURREY.

Acland, Miss C. . .

Acocks, H. F .....
*Adlercron, Miss L.
Allen, Mrs. E. E.
Allnutt, Chas. . . . .
Anderson, Mrs.
W. R ..........
Anderson, Miss E.
Atherton, R.

*Bailey, W. O. ..
Baker, Miss G. . .
Barlow, Mrs. Pratt

Beckett, Mrs. W. H.

Bellin, Mrs. A. ..
*Bonhote, J. L...
Bonner, Miss .....
Bonus, Miss .....
Bonus, Miss A. M.

*Bonus, Miss I. . .
*Boulnois, Mrs.
Stratten ......

Brailsford, Mrs. . .
Brooke, Miss C. E.
*Brooks, H.

.....

Buckley, Mrs. T. W.

(2 yrs.) .......
Bullett, R. H. . . . .

Burd, G. M.
Candler, H.
Careless, Miss . . . .
Carpenter, E. E.
Carter, T.
Caulﬁeld, Miss. . . .
Charrington, Miss
E. L .........
Clapham,
H. R. ........
Clark, C. S. Gordon
Clark, H. Gordon
Clark, Mrs. H.
Gordon .......
Clark, Miss G.
Cobb, Mrs.
C00per, Miss E. . .
Corbin, Mrs.
Crichton, Mrs.
Cranford .......
Crosﬁeld, J. B. ..

42
5

5

HN

5
I0

00 0 00000 00 000

00000000

0

00

 

59

s. d.

Crosﬁeld, Miss K. 5
Croydon Nat. Hist.

and Sci. Society IO
Cruttwell, Mrs.. . 5
*Currey, F. A .....

*Currey, Mrs.

Curtis, Fredk. 21
Datson, H. ...... 2
Davey, Miss F. A. 2
Davey, Miss M. E. 2
Davis, Mrs. Trevor 5
DEBENHAM, MISS

A. E. ......... 105
DONKIN, MRS. . . . .
Dowson, Miss I.

(2 yrs.) ; ....... 2
*Drabble, Mrs. . . . 21
Drummond, Miss . 5
Drury, Mrs ....... 5
Dukinﬁeld—Jones,E.
Dukinﬁeld-Jones,

Miss E.

ooooooo

DUNN, MISS .....
Edwards, J. A. . . 5
Eggett, A. H. . . . . Io
Ellis; G. E. H. . . . .

Elphinstone, Misses 21
*Enderby, Miss .. 21
Enﬁeld, Mrs.
Eurnorfopoulos, E.
Evans, F. B. . . . . 5
Farmer, Mrs ...... 5
Fielder, Miss N .. . 1
Fierz, Mrs. . . . . 5
Fierz, Miss D... I
Fierz, Miss M. . I
Fierz, Mrs. A. T. I
Fletcher, L. L. .. IO
Foss, Miss ...... I
Foster, C. W. I
France-Hayhurst,
Mrs.
*Frick, Mrs. O’D. 21
*Garrett, Miss A. . . 21
Gittins, Mrs. M.. . 5
Gooch, Rev. F. H”

*Graham, N. .....
Hall, Miss P. ..... 5
Halsey, Sir L. E. . . 5
Hanbury, R. J. . . 5
Harke, Miss H. I
*Hartmann, Wm.

Haydon, Miss E. G. 5
*Hayes, G. W.. . . . 21
Hayhurst, Miss H. 5
Henderson, A. D.
Henderson, Mrs. . .

O

0000 0000000000 000 0009 0 00000 00

0000

0

00

 

s.
Hickson, J. ...... 5
*Hill, H. J ...... 42
Hollinshead, H. B. 2
Honess, H. W... 5
Hook, Bryan .....

Hooper, T. R. . . . . IO

Houlgate, J. W. . .
Hubert, Mrs. J. F.
Hue, Mrs. Corbet . .
*Hull, Mrs. E. C. 21
Jackman, G. R.
James, Capt. W’.
Jobbins, H. ......
Jobbins, Mrs. H.
Johnston, MissM. S.
Judd, C. H. . .
Ker, Mrs. David .
Kingham, A. J...
Lane, Miss . . . .
Langton, Miss E. C.
Lathbury, Mrs. .
Latter, O. H .......
Law, Misses .....
Lea, Miss M. K. r. .
*Lemon, Mrs.
*Lemon, F. E. . .
Lewis, A. R ....... 5
Libby, H. .......
Linton, Miss ..... 2
Lichﬁeld, Mrs .....
Lloyd, Mrs. 1
Lloyd, Rev. W. R. I
Lodge, G. E.(2 yrs.) 42
Macdonald, A. H. 5

(Jim HUN HU‘U‘IUIUI

H

Malin, Miss M. C. 1
Manby, Mrs. ..... 2
Manning, A. ..... 1
Maples, Mrs. ..... 5

Marshall, Mrs.
Masterman, J. S.. 5

May, Misses ...... 2
Mease, Miss E ..... 10
Millair, Miss ..... 1
Moberly, Mrs. . . . . I

Montagu, Mrs. E. 2
Moreau, Miss M. L. 2
Morgan, Miss . . 1

Morley, Robt. . . . . 5
Morton, Miss A. . .

Muller, Mrs. 20
Neave, E. W. J... 1

Neave, Miss G. M. 1
Neville, Miss E. . .

Nevinson, Miss
M. E. ........ 5
*Neild, Mrs ....... 42

Norman, Miss G. 5

d.

O 0000

0

0000000000

0

00000000

0 000000000

00

000

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Ogbourne, H. R. . .
Olsson, Miss M. G.

Page, H. W ....... 5
*Parker, Eric . . . . 21
*Parson, Mrs. A.. . 21
Pears, Mrs. A. . . . . Io
Pollock, Mrs. A. G. IO

Pollock, A . Gordon

Pollock, Miss V. S. 1
Povel, Miss I
Povel, Miss G. . . I
Povel, Miss L. . . I
Powell, Mrs. .....

POWELL, MISS T.W.
Pridham, Miss L. . . 2
Purvis, Miss K. E. I

*Rawlings, Miss
B. E. ......... 21
Relfe, Miss L 5

Reynolds, W. R. . . 5
*Roﬂe - Silvester.
Rev. C. ........
Rowland, Miss K. 5
Ruck, Miss ...... I
*Russell, C. A., K.C. 21
*Samuelson, Lady 21
Saunders, Mrs. E. 5
Sausmarez, Miss de 5
Scrutton, Mrs. . . . .
Shaw, Rev. W. A.
Shrimpton, W. F. 5
Smith, Alfred . . . . 5
Smith, Miss E. . . .
Soames, Mrs. . . 5
Slater, Rev. B. B. 5
Stebbing, W. P. D. 10

Stock, Mrs. ......
Stokes, Mrs. .....
Strangman, J. . . . .
Sturt, F. ........ 2
Taylor, C. H. . . . . 5
*THORBURN,
ARCHIBALD . . .
Tidy, John ....... 5
Tinne, Miss ..... 5
Tinne, Mrs. ..... 1
Todd, A. ........ 5

Tower, Mrs. E. E. I
*Toller, Mrs. W‘allis 21
Tringham, Rev.

E J. F ......

Trist, Miss F. . . . . I
Verner, Mrs. . . . . 2
Verner, Miss . . . . I

Verner, Mrs. W. . . '
Vizard, Mrs. H. . . 5
Walker, F ........ 2

HUI
000000 000 om 0000 00000 o?“

00

0

00

000000

00\0

 

 

60

s. d.

Walker, Mrs. F. . . 2
Ward, Mrs. Ibotson 10
Ward, Rev. S. E. 5
Waterlow, Mrs. D.

Waters, The Misses 2
Watt, Mrs. ......
Watts, Mrs. G. F.
Wells, Miss C. E.
*Willcocks, W. M.
Williams, Miss D. M. 5

NUIH

*WILLIAMSON,MRS.

Wilson, Miss ..... 2
Woking Field Club 5
Wright, Miss . . . . I
*Wylie, Mrs. ..... 21

SUSSEX.

Alderson, Miss . . . . I
ATTLEE, H. G .....

Austin, A. . ......

Barr, Miss S. A. . . . 5
*Beddow, A. E. . . 21
Bennett, Miss 5
Berrill, Miss M. . . ’2
*Booth, Miss . . . . 21

Boyle, Dr. Helen . .
*Blunt, W. S. ..

Brace, G. R. . . . . 5
Brace, Mrs. G. R. 5
Bracewell, Miss
D. F. . ’. ...... 4
Bridgeman, Capt
R O ......... 10

Burchett, Mrs. .. I
*Buxton, Rt. Hon.
Earl
Carr, Mrs. Reed . . 5
*CASTLE-SLOANE, C.
Churton, Miss M. C. 5
CLARKE, COLONEL
STEPHENSON . . .

Close, Miss K... I
Cockburn, Mrs... 2

Colgate, Thos. . . .
Cottingham, Miss
F

’)

G. L. ......... 21
Craig, Miss E. . . . 2
Croft, A. ........
*Cunliffe, H. J. St.

B. ............
Davies, Miss K. . I
Delpratt, Miss F. H. 5

00000 0 0000 0 @000 00803

00

000

 

s.
Drewett, Mrs. I
Duret, Miss H. M. 10
Eastwick-Field, Dr. 5
Eastwick-Field, Lt.

E., R.N. ...... 10
Egerton—Warbur-

ton, Rev. G. . . . .
Ellis, Miss A.
Ellis, Mrs. H. . . . .
Ellis, V. Locke. . .
Evershed, Miss C. 1
*FLEICHER, W. H.

HUI

N

*Gaskell, Miss. . . .

21
Gatehouse, Mrs.
and Miss ...... 2
Gibbs, Chas. . . . . 5
Glazier, Mrs. . . . . 2
Grant, J. H. . . .. 5
*Green, H. J. 21
Green, Mrs. H. J. 10
Green, Miss K. M. 5
Green, R. E. . . . . 5
Green, J. G 5
Green, G. F . . .. 5

Grifﬁn, Miss L. . . 2
Halcombe, Mrs. . . I
*Hanbury, F. J. .
Harrison, Mrs. E. S. 1
HAVILAND, DR. F.

Hoare, Miss S.
Howard, Miss- . . .
Howe, Miss" C. ..
Humby, Miss J...
Hunt, Miss L. . . . _
*Hutton,Mrs.H.R. 2
Hutton, Mrs. . . . .
Jackson, Mrs. E. . .
James, Miss T. O.
Jeudwine, Miss .. 5
Jones, Miss L. . . . 2
Jones, Mrs. A. F. 5
Julius, Miss . . . 10
Kennedy, Miss ..
*Lascelles, Hon.

Gerald ........
Lillie, Miss H. M.
*Lumley—Smith,

Major G. T. L. 21
Macadam-Smith,

Mrs. ..........
Macnamara, Miss M. 5
Mason, Mrs. John . 5

NNHUINHHUIO

o moo oowo?‘

00000000000000

000090000

0000

00

 

 




 

 

 

s.
*Meredyth-Baker,
Mrs. .......... 21
Meredyth—Baker,
Rev. R. ...... 1
*Miller, F. G. 21
Nixon, Mrs. and
Miss .......... 2
*Ohlenschlager,J.G. 21
OKE, A. W. .....
Page, Miss ....... 2

Palmer, Miss E. E.
Parkin, Thos. .
Phillips, Miss M. .. 5
*Pigott, Miss E... 21
Robertson—Luxford,

J. S. O. (4 yrs.) 20
Scrutton, Miss M. E. 5
Simpson, Miss L. I. 5
Smith, Mrs. E. . I
Smithers, Miss K. I
Staples, Miss B. . .
Stephens, Mrs. G. 5
*Strachan, W. M..
Streatfeild, Major 10
Strang-Watkins, W. 5
Sykes-Maclean, I.
*Tennent, Mrs. E. .
Thorowgood, Miss

H. M. ........ I
Tioehnrst, N. F. .
Turner, R. Ll ..... 5
Tyrwhitt-Drake,

G. P.

*Unwin,
Fisher
Walker, F. A. . . .
*Walsh, Miss E.. .
Wansey, Mrs. E.
Weller-Poley, T. . . 5
Williams-Freeman,
Lt.-Col ......... 5
*Winham, Miss A.
*Woodd, Miss E. G.
Woods, Herbert. . 5
Woodward, M. . . .
Woolner, Mrs. . . . . 5
Woolner, Miss P.

WARWICKSHIRE.

Alderson, Misses. . 2
*Alexander, H. G. 21
Askew, Mrs. ..... I
Assheton, Ma's. . . .
Bolton, Miss A. L. 5
Bouch, Mrs ......

OO

OONOOO

O

0

00000 O

OO

O

 

61

Broke, Lady Wil—
loughby de . . . . 5
Bromwich, Miss . 5
Buchanan, Miss I. I
Burdekin, H., and

Mrs. .......... 2
Butcher, Alec M. 5
Butcher, E. A. .. 5
Clive, Mrs ........ 2
COLLISON, H. . . . .
Cooper, J. E. .. 5
Cowley, Miss . . . . I
*Corelli, Miss Marie

Crawford, Hon. Mrs.

Donald ....... I
Craxford, J. . . . . I
*Davenport, F. R. 21
Davy, Miss ...... I
Denton, Miss . . . . I
Denton, Mrs. . . . . I
Draxton, Mrs. .. I
Elsee, Miss ...... 2
Evans, Miss ..... 5
Evans, Miss .....

*Fieldhouse, W.J.,
C.B.E.

Gale, Norman R. . . 2

GIBBINS, W. B.

Gibbins, Mrs. W. B. 5
Goodwin, Mrs. . . . I
Hancock, E. .....
Harrison, Percy
Hawkes, H. . . . . I
Herbert, J. and Mrs. 2
Herring, Miss I. . . 2
Hopps, Mrs. 1
Jackson, E. . . . . 5
*Kaye, L. Lister. .
Kell, W. V. W. . . 5
Key, Mrs. ....... 5
King, Miss ....... 2
King, Miss I. M.. . I
Knight, Miss K. . . 2
Lane, Mrs‘. ...... 2
Leal, Miss ....... I
Line, Miss ...... I
Leith, Miss ...... 5

Lines, F. J. B.. . . .
LLOYD, GERALD
*Lloyd, Thos. 0.
Lloyd, 8. L1. . . . .
Margetts, Miss . . 2
Mitchell, Clifton . . 5
Mitchell, Mrs. . . 5
Moncrieff, The Lady I
Moncrieﬂ, Hon.

Gladys ........ I _

@000 000

00

000000000

0

0

00000

OOOONCNOOOO

00001

 

s.
*Mott,-James 31
Murray, H. J. R. 5
Nelson, Mrs. R. . . 5

Old, Mrs. Bernard
Oldham, T. M. ..
Over, Mrs. ...... I
Padmore, Miss~

E. M. ........
Parry-Nlitchell,

H. D. ........
Payne-Smith, Rev.

W H

Peppiette, C. H.. . 5
Quick, Mrs. H.... 2
Reid, Miss ...... I
Richards, the
Misses 5
Robertson, Miss D. 2
Robinson, Miss A. R. 1
Saunders, C. H. . 5
Saw, K. H ....... I
Sporborg,Mrs. H.N.
Stevens, Miss D.
(2 yrs.) .......
Strang, Mrs. .....
*Strang, Miss . . . . 2
Taylor, Mrs. M.. .
Titley, Miss W. R.
Tyndall, E. L. . ..
Urwin, W. B. ..
Wallis, C. W. K.. .
Warder, R. C. .
Wightman, Miss H. I
Winterton, H. R. 5

U101 UIUIUIONN

WESTMORLAND.

Arnold, Miss ..... 2
Barham, Miss Foster 5
Beck, Miss Alcock 1

Clegg, The Misses 5 .

Elletson, Miss . . . . 2
Gair, Mrs. J. H. . . I
*Groves, W. G. . . . 21
Hallam, W. W. . . 5
Harding, Miss E. 2
Harris, Mrs. Sta-n-

ford ..........
Hills, Miss C. D. . . I
*King, A. .......
Little, Mrs. J. R.. . 5
McLean, Mrs. H. 5
Owen, Miss R. . . . . 5
Peacock, The Misses 2
Roberts, Mrs ..... 5
*Thornely, Miss

L. R. ......... 20

0009‘

0600

00000

O OOONOO

O

o oooooxoooow 0

00000

O

 

 




«fMM-O .

 

s.
Thornely, Mrs. . . . .
Wilson, Mrs. R. . .
Wilson, Mrs. Hulme
WILTSHIRE.
‘
Adye, A. J., M.D.. . 10

Alexander, E. P.. .

Barclay, Miss . . . . 5
Beaven, E. C. . . . . 5
Beaven, Capt. T. P.
Bignold, Miss . . . . 2
*Calley, Miss . . . .
Colville, Miss .....
Compton, Miss F. C.
Davis, Mrs. Roland 2
Deverell, Mrs. . . . 2

Ensor, Mrs ....... IO
Fleming, Mrs .....
*Guillamore, Rt.
Hon. Viscount. . 42
Guillamore, Rt.
Hon.Viscountess Io
Hoare, Lady .....

Jebb, Co]. J. H. M. 5
Langford, Mrs. . . . 5
*Leaf, Mrs. H. . . . 21
McLaughlin, Miss L. 2
*Methuen, Rt.Hon.
Lord, G.C.B. . 21
Naish, G. W. 2
*Phillips, Mrs. B. 21
Pollen, Miss C... 2
Poore, Vice-Admiral

Sir Richard . . . . 5
Roberts, Rev. T. . . 5
Rodway, Mrs. . . . . 5
*Shaftesbury, the

Rt. Hon. The

Countess ....... 20
Sharp, G. ........ 2

Thornely, Mrs.T.H. 5
Thornely, T. H. . . 2
Trim, Miss .......
Vaughan, Matthew
VauX, Miss ...... 5
Wyld, Rev. Canon

WORCESTERSHIRE.

Ballard, F. ...... 5
Ballard, Miss . . . . 5
Beresford, The

Misses

odooo

...-.... -_..‘_.m‘.. . . ”...—...- -.. w-....__..__._.._~...._~._ ,

O

0‘

000

0

030000 000 0‘\000 0000 0\

0

 

62

s. d.
Boughton, Miss

S. S. (2 yrs.).. 5 o
Carnegy, Major-

Gen. P. M..... 10 o
Cazelet, Mrs. .....
Curtler, M. S. .. 5 o
Eveson, Mrs ...... 2 6
Giles, Rev. A.

Linzee ........ 10 o
Hawkins, Mrs. .. 2 o
Lakin, Miss ...... 0
Pollard, Dr. Chas.

(2 yrs.) ........ IO 0
Preston, Mrs. . . . . 5 0
Raymond, Miss

Y. S .......... I 6
Roscoe, Miss E. M. 5 0
Thomas, Mrs. E. D. I 0
White, F. C. . . .. 10 o
Winton, Miss E.. . 2 o
*Withers, Mrs. P. 21 o

YORKSHIRE.

Allison, Miss E... 5
ARTON, W. DENBY
Atkins, Miss E. . . IO
Badland, A. (2 yrs.) 5
Bagshaw, Miss V.

(2 yrs.)
Barran, Mrs. H. . .
Bennett, Miss H. . . I
*Bingham, Dowager

Lady .........
*BISHOP, DR. . . . .
*Boyle, C. H. . . . . 21
Bradbury, Joseph 5
*Brigg, Leolin . . . . 42
Briggs, J. J ....... 5
Brooke, Mrs. A. . .
*Brotherton, Col.

Sir Edward .. . .
Brown, Mrs. R. . . 2
Collier, Miss I
Cox, Mrs. Edward IO
Craven, Fredk. . . . 5
Davy, N. ......
Dennett, Mrs. and

Miss ........ 2
Doncaster Scientiﬁc

Society .......
Dry, H. D. ....... IO
Eddison, Dr. J. E.
Emmet, Miss N. L.
Ferraby, Mrs. . . . . 5

0000

00000

0

 

s.
F othergill, Mrs.

W. S. ........ I
Gibbs, J. D. (2 yrs.) IO
*Gilmour, Miss .. 42
Golightly, Miss. . I
Goodwill, Miss D. 5
*Grant, A. J. . . . . 21
*Grant, Mrs. ..... 21
Green, P. F .......

Halstead, W. E. . . 5
Hatherley, Miss . . I
Hebden, Miss . . . . 2
Herdman, Mrs. G. A. 1
Hewitt, P. ....... Io
Horsfall, Miss E. . .

Horsnaill, Miss E.

Howat, Miss . . . . 5
HURTLEY, J. E. . .
Hutchinson, Mrs. 5

Jefferson, Miss . . . 1
*Jessop,Capt.H.VV. 21
Johnson, J. S. C.. . 5

Jones, R. (2 yrs.) . . IO
Kay, Miss L. .....
Kewley, E. ......
Kewley, Mrs. E. . .
Kilburn, Miss . . . . 1
Kitching, A. E. .. 20

Lane, H. F. W. . . 2

*Lascelles, Capt.

the Hon. Edward 21
Lumby, A. H. . . . . IO
McCombie, 'Miss . . 5
McNeill, Mrs. . . . . I
Marshall, Mrs. . . . . 2
Master, Miss H. E. 5
Meek, Mrs. & Miss 2
Parkin, W. H. . . I
Pawson, H. H. . . . 5
Price, Mrs. ...... 1
*Priestman,Ge0.. . 21
Radford, Miss E. L. 2
Radford, Miss . . . . 2
*Ratcliﬁe, Mrs.

C. F ...........
Robinson, Miss C. IO
ROSE-INNES, MRS.
*St. Quintin, W. H. 21
Scarth, Miss . . . . 5
*Scott-Hopkins,

Capt. C. (2 yrs.) 42

Smith, Mrs. Chas. . 2
Stead, A. & K. . . 2
Stowell, Rev. R.

(2 yrs.) ........ 5
Sutcliff, Mrs. . . . . I
Tallentire, Mrs. . . 13

0000000

o 000:20 00‘ ooooo

0‘0

aooooooomoooo

0010

00

 

 




 

 

 

s.
Taylor, Mrs. Ed-
mund ......... 5
Tatharn, Miss . . . .
Topham, Mrs. . . . . 2
Wade, E. W. ..... 5
Walker, Miss A. 2
Walker, R. W .....

Whitehead, Mrs. . . 2
Wilkinson, Mrs. C. 5
Wilkinson, Johnson

(2 yrs.) 0
Willey, Miss K. 2
Wilson, Rev. B. 5
’Wray, Miss Celia. 5

ISLE OF WIGHT.

*Baring, Sir God—
frey
Boulay, Mrs. E. du 10
*Combe, Charles H. 21
Cox, Miss I. A. . . 2
Cox, R. (2 yrs.).. 20
Elias, Miss E. M. 5
Gregg, Miss S. J.. 2
Haslewood, MissM. 2
Lock, Miss H.

(2 yrs.)
Lock, Miss I. J.. .
Preston,The Misses 4
Prickett, A. G. . . .
TENNYSON, RT.

HON. LORD ..Io5
*Unwin, Col. W. H. 21
Watson, Miss E.M.

ISLE OF MAN.

Greene, A. C.‘ .. 5

CHANNEL ISLES.

Cocq q, S. Le .. 5
Rowswell, B. T.. 5

WALES.

Allen, Mrs. Egerton I
Beadnell, Mrs ..... 5
*Borrett, F. C. H. 21
Bracher, H. E. .. 5
Bradburn, A. S. . .

Busch-Michell, A. .P 5

l

0

00

0000

000 0100001000

0

0000

 

63

s.
Bushell, Miss S. M.
*Cardiff Natural-

ists’ Society 21
Chambers, Miss

F. E. .........
Constable, Rev. W. J.
Cooke, Miss E. B. 2
*Coonan, J. F. .. 21
Coulman, E. ..... 5

Christy, Mrs. . . . . 2
Crichton, Mrs. 1
DAWSON, J. ROGER
Duke, Miss . . . . 5
Elson, Mrs. J. . . 5
Evans, Mrs. Davies
Fairrie, Mrs. M. D.
GARDNER, MRS. H.
Gardner, Dr. H. W.
Gardner, Mrs.‘

Willoughby .....
*Howell, J. M.. . 21
Jackson, H. F. . .
Lambart, Miss L.

E. ............

*Lawder, E F.,
R.N ........... 21
Lawrence, J. E. G. 5

Lewis, Capt. F. O. 5
Lewis, L. M. .....
*Lloyd-Theakston,

Mrs. .......... 21
Morris, Rev. M. C.

F. ............
Nichol}, ]. D.
*Orton, Prof.

Kennedy ......
Paterson, D. R. . . 5
Percival, Mrs ...... IO
*Player, W. J. P. 21
*Phillips, F. Lort.
*Price, W. R. . . . . 21

Thomas, Miss C. A. 2
Thomas, Miss F.. . 1

*Waddingham,T.J. 21
Ward, Mrs. ...... 5
*Watson, Mrs. 21

Wood, C apt.
Harcourt

SCOTLAND (NORTH).

Anderson, Miss A. 5

ARTHUR, MRS.
ANDREW ......

*Baird, Sir
Alexander, Bt.
(late) ......... 21

0

00000 0

O

000

000

000000

 

 

s.d.

Blair, Rev. D. Logan 2

Brunton, W.

and Mrs. ...... 2
Cameron, Miss

J. D. W. ...... 2
Carmichael, Mrs. 5
*Chapman, D. L. 21
CLARKE, LT.-COL.
Cowan, Mrs ....... 2
Cunnynghame, Rev.

Canon ........ 2

Douglas, Mrs. . . . .
Deas, Mrs. Carlyle
*Frost, W. E.
Gordon, Wm. J.. . 7
Grant-Suttie, Hon.

Mrs. .......... ' 5
Gray, Geo. ...... 2
Gray, Calvin . 5
Hanchette, Miss

A. L. ......... 2
Henderson, Rev. J. 2
Howie, Miss ...... I
Inglis, Robt. ..... I
Jameson, Martin. . 2
Jameson, M. S. .. 1
Kennaway, Miss »

J. M. ......... 1
Laidlaw, T. G.. 5
Landreth, Rev. P.

R. ............ 2
Lawrenson, Thomas 2
Leslie, Miss ...... I

M acleod of JVIaoleod
Mackintosh, Miss

R. ............
M zddlemore Thos.
Mitchell, The Misses 5
Moncrieﬁ, Mrs.

R. H. ........ 2
Murray, Hon.

Gladys Graham 5
Newlands, Miss . . 2
Perth School Board
Pullar, A. E. . . . . 5
Pullar, Mrs. H. . . . 3
Ramsay, Miss . . . . 2
*Richards, Miss .

C. D ........... 21
Rintoul, Miss L. I.

(2 yrs.) ....... 2o

Ritchie, J. and Mrs. 2
Ross, Dr. Maxwell 3
Smart, Miss E. J. 1
Smith, Mrs ....... I
Stirling, Miss . . . . 2
Stockwell, Mrs. . . 10

0

00 000000 000

000

00

0

0000000

 

 




. ........—.....-......— “H“... __

 

s.
Stockwell, George. I
Stothart, Miss J.B. 5

*WEIR, WILLIAM .
Young, John . . . . I

SCOTLAND (SOUTH).

ADAM SIR CHARLES,

T. ...........
Allan, Mrs ........ IO
Allan, W. S. 2
*Barclay, Mrs ..... 21
Berry, William . . Io
*Binning, Lady. . 20

Blackburn, Miss M.
*Blyth, Miss Alice 21
Boyd, the Misses. 2
*Brown, Mrs. Hope 21
Bruce, Miss C. . . . 2
Cassillt's, Rt. Hon.

Earl of .......
Christie, Miss . . . . 5
Colvin, Miss M. I. 5
*Denny, Major M.

21

000000000000

Dixon, Miss L... I
Fletcher, Fitzroy C.
Fletcher, Mrs.
Fitzroy ........
Fraser, Miss ..... I
*Gladstone, H. S. . 2
Goodfellnw, B.
Gore, Mrs. J. .
Hamilton, W. H..
Harvey, Thomas . .
Herries, Lt. -.Col

NH

N

2
F3
r4
U!

Heys, . 5
Home Miss Logan 1
Johnstone, Mrs. T. 2
Kennedy, J. M.. 5
Lander, Mrs. Eaton IO
Love, Miss .......
McCallum, W.

(2 yrs.)
Mackinlay, Miss . ‘ I
MAXWELL, LADY

STIRLING ......
MENZIES, COI.

C. T ........... 105
MENZIES, JOHN R. 105
Monteath, John . Io
Munroe, J.
*Oliphant, J. R.. .
Paterson, Miss O.
Robertson, Miss . . I

0

0000 00000

00

0 000900" 0000 CO

0

00000

 

Scott, ]. C.
Spark, George. . . . I
Shaw-Stewart, St'r H.
Stewart, Mrs. Col-
Vin 5
Stirling, Capt. A. 5
Sutherland, Miss H.
Strachan, Dr. J.. .
TROTTER, A. E. C.

*Trotter, Lt.-Col. 21

Waddell, J. A, of
Leadloch ...... 5

Ward, Miss M. K. I

Wardlaw-Ramsay,

1. .......... 5
Wigan, Mrs. L. D. 5
W11kinson,John.. 5
WILSON, D. J. B.
Yellowlees, Mrs..

0

0

000

SCOTLAND ' (EDINBURGH).

Black, M t'ss .....
BONAR, REV. H. N.
Christie,
Christie, Miss H. . . 2
Gordort, Hort. Mrs.

H. ...........
Hannah, MissM. H.
Howe, Mrs. M. S. I
Ivory, the Misses
*Janes, Capt. H. R. 21
Janes, Mrs. S. E. S. 5
Johnstone, Henry 5
Lumsden, Miss I. J.
Murray, P. ......
Murray, M £35 A . B.
Ritchie, Wm. 5
Somerville, Miss F. 7
Stewart—Smith,

Mrs. ........ 2

10

SCOTLAND (GLASGOW).

Allan, A. B. . . . . 2
Allan, Mrs. A. B. . . 5

Allan, R. A ....... 2
Bartholomew, J. . . 5
*Bruce, Alex. . . . . 21
Cairns, Adam 5

Campbell, ]. Mae-

nattght .........
*Eadie, Norman.. 21
*Gardiner, F. C...Io.o
Glen, Mrs. L. 5

Miss.... 2'

00

000006

000

 

5.
Glen, Mrs. R. B.. . 5
Marriott, C. H. . . 5
Smith, Miss M. 2
IRELAND.
Allart, Miss ......
*Bristow, J. R... 41
Carey, Mrs.

- 4
Cooper, Miss E. V. I
Digby, Reginald . .

Entrican, Miss S. , I
FenrteZZ, Mrs. . . . .
*Fennell, Mrs. .. 21
Figgis, Miss L. I
.Gilmore, Mrs. W E. 2
Hamilton, Miss M. 3
Hart, H. C .......
Henry, S .........

5
Hoare, Miss A. M. 3
Horner, Miss . . .. 5
Hunter, W. F. . . 5
Johnson, Miss 5
Lloyd Patterson,

Lady R.
Lombard, J. W.

(2 yrs.)
Longﬁeld, R. E...
*McGugan,J.M. K. 21
*MCLean, Mrs.R.E. 21
MeMurdo, Miss P.
Mahony, Miss Ellie 2
MAHONY, MISS

ooooooo

GIBSON .......
Mahony, T. H.. . . 5
*Manly, J. C. .. 21
May, G. C. ...... 5
*Mercer, H. T... 21
*Pollard, F. J. S.
PUREFOY, W. B.. .
Robinson, J. . . . .
Ryves, Miss C .....
Seaver, Miss E. L. 5
Seaver, Miss M.. . 5
Smart, Miss . . . . I
Shackleton, Miss

M. E. ........ I
Travers, Miss A.. . 5
Walkington, Mrs. . 5
Watson, Capt. T. A.

Neill, M.D., M.C.
Whelan, C. Blake 5
Whelan, Miss E. M. 5
White, Miss 1
Wilson, Mrs. and

Miss ........... IO

Wilson, Miss F...

0009‘

O 000

0000

00000

0000

 

 




65

 

 

. s. d.
FOREIGN. Irwin, Jl/Iiss M. . . Pollock, Miss M. D. 2 6
- , Kinloch, A. M... Richardson, Miss
Arthur, J., jun._. . I 0 Knight, Miss .. .. x o M. E. ........
Bailey, Mrs. S... o Littler, H. C..... Rigg, Mrs. ...... 5 o
BARRETT, C. L. . . Lockwood Miss Rive, Mlle. de la . . 5 o
*Burdon, Mrs. E. H. ........ Roberts, Mrs. 5 0
Russell ....... 20 0 *Meyer, Miss H.. Rousseau, Mrs. . . I5 0
. Campbell, Mrs. C. W. *MILLER MRS E Sutton, Ernest
Chappellier, COIG A. 5 o C. T. . . . . . . . . . . Tucker, Lady . . . .
Cornish, H. G. Miller, Mrs. G. D. 10 0 *Warren, Professor
(4 yrs.) ....... 20 0 *Mills, J. P. 21 0 Ernest ....... '. 20 o
Cummins, the Misses Moreau, R. L. . . 5 0 Way, Sir S. ,,,,,
Edwards, Mrs. . 5 o *MOULTON, J. C. 4.20 o Wilkin, Mrs. A. H. to 0
Eliot. Willard A. . . Oberholser, H. C. 5 0 *Wilson, Mrs.
Forrer, Mrs. A. . . Palmer, A. H. Wallis ........ 21 o
Heam, Mrs ....... (4 yrs.) ....... 20 o

 

 

All Subscriptions are due on January 151: of each year, and payable
before the 3151; July following (Statute No. 8). Cheques may be made
Payable to the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, to the Hon.
Secretary, or to the Secretary.

 

 




66

PLEASE FILL IN THIS FORM.

I desire to be enrolled in the Royal Society for the Protection of

- 96 Fellow
_°_, Member , '
Buds as a { Subscribing Associate } and send heiewith the sum of
. Registered Associate

 

£ Q. of“; which I will contribute yearly.

as a donation.

Name
(Please state title, Mrs, Miss, or Esq.)

 

A d dress

 

 

Date 192__

Cheques, Postal Orders, etc., to be sent to the Secretary, Royal Society
for the Protection of Birds, 23, Queen Anne’s Gate, S.W.l, and
crossed London County Westminster and Parr’s Bank.

Or to Hon. Local Seretar 5

 

 

* Strike out words not needed.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

67

Some publications of the Royal Society for the
Protection of Birds, 23, Queen Anne’s Gate, S.W.l.

 

THE ECONOMIC VALUE OF BIRDS.

An A B G of common Birds. A pocket guide to inland species. 6d.

Birds, Insects and crops. (1917.) Suppliediree to Agriculturists,
Allotment-holders, Schools, and all workers on the land. 200th
thousand. ‘

Our Ally the Bird. With Illustrations, 1d. each, 9d. doz. 1
Bird-Ally Post cards. I doz. assorted, 6d. ; Ioo cards, 33. 6d.

Farm, Garden and Birds. How to Safeguard Crops from attack by
Birds. By practical Gardeners and Farmers. Is. each.

Game Preservation and the Protection of Birds. By FRANK Bormnn,
Id., 9d. doz.

Birds: and the way to Avernus. Reprinted from The Nineteenth Century
‘ and After. By Miss L. GARDINER. 3d.

THE PLUMAGE QUESTION.
The story of the Egret. From photographs by A. H. E. Mattingley.
A.O.U. On art paper, 15. ; Bijou edition, 3d.

Campaign Leaﬂets. (I) The Plume Question in a Nutshell; (2) Mile-
stones; (3) An Open Letter to the Millinery Trade.

Feathers and Facts. A Reply to Trade Statements. 6d.

Anti-Plumage Post Cards. Gd. postage.) What eminent men say.
1 dozen assorted, 6d.

Osprey, or Egrets and Aigrettes. By W. H. HUDSON. 1d., 9d. doz.
Dress in Relation to Animal Life. 4d. doz.
The Little Yellow Bird. 1d.

. THE GAGE-BIRDS QUESTION.
A Linnet for Sixpence. By W. H. HUDSON. Coloured Illustration.

Id., 9d. doz. .

A Thrush that Never Lived. By W. H. HUDSON. Coloured Illustration.
Id., 9d. doz.

Bird-Catching and Bird-Gaging. By JOHN CAREY. Illustrated. Id.,
9d. doz.

The Bird-Shop. By H. F. SPENDER. Illustrated. 3d. doz..
Taken Prisoner. With Illustration. 3d. doz. .
The Skylarks. By Rt. Hon. Sir J. RENNELL RODD, G.C.M.G. 3d. doz.

0n Liberating caged Birds. By W. H. HUDSON. Coloured Illustration,
Id., 3d. doz.

 

For Love of Beasts. By JOHN GALSWORTHY. 2d.
Lost British Birds. By W. H. HUDSON. With Illustrations. 6d.
Bird-Law Rhymes. 3d. per doz.

 




 

68

BIRD NOTES AND NEWS.

Published Quarterly ,' 15. 6d. per annum, post free, payable in advance.
Single members, 4%d. Gratis to Fellows and Members.

Vol. II. (1906-7), bound in cloth, 4s. 6d. ; Vol. III. (1908-9), 4s. 6d. ;
Vol. IV. (1910-11), 43. 6d.; Vol. V. (1912-13), 45. 6d.; Vol. VI.
(1914-15), 43. 6d.; Vol. VII. (1916-17), 53. 6d. Postage 4d. extra.

a..__V______ .7 m... .. u-‘ n. _....L. .W __~, . ..

Bird N ales and News is intended as a medium of communication
among all in favour of the Protection of Wild Birds, whether they view
it from the scientiﬁc, the utilitarian, the aesthetic, or the humanitarian
standpoint, or simply as lovers of wild nature. It records the progress
of the movement in Parliament, in County Councils, and in the Schools
(especially in connection with Bird and Arbor Day? ; furnishes
specimen cases of convictions under the Wild Birds Protection Acts ;
gives brief comments 'on matters to which attention is or should be
directed; and contains reports of ,meetings and announcements in
connection with the Society.

All communications to be addressed to the Editor, Bird Notes
and News, 23, Queen Anne’s Gate, London, S.W.I.

 

LIST OF LANTERN SLIDES. (Over 900), with terms for hire, sent
on application. Typed Lecture (No. 6). “ Birds on the Land,"
for workers on the land, clubs, etc. Also

PARTICULARS OF BIRD AND TREE COUNTY CHALLENGE SHIELD
COMPETITION FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. With leaﬂets for
Teams, and items for Entertainments.

CATALOGUE OF NESTING BOXES AND FOOD-STANDS FOR BIRDS.

CHART LIST OF BIRDS, with Summary of the Acts, Id. ; with the
Order for any County indicated, 2d.

ACTS AND ORDERS, with full text of the Bird Protection Acts.
By FRANK E. LEMON, M.A., LL.B. 2d.

THE LAW CONCERNING LWILD BIRDS. ’By T. HASTINGS LEES,
M.A., formerly Chief Constable of Northamptonshire, and of the
Isle of Wight.

COMPARATIVE LEGISLATION FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS.
Gold Medal Essay. By A. HOLTE MACPHERSON.

 

 

, VACHER & SONS, Westminster House, S.W.r—87436

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 




