 

v..‘:,. w ‘ ...,..
.1. ....\ f; p .fr... .C .F

.. . .V ‘
.rotfp‘o“ l (i

N h

a
v
.

3 5.... .
{r .r I.....(\ IiV:rw....N/t

 

‘o.,.

Piwﬁ v1.1 L. .m «(MWH

.. ,. . . .J“ y H
.321 .1. a. L.

 




May 15, 1991‘"

THE CONGRESSIONAL FRIENDS OF ANIMALS
(a bipartisan Members’ caucus)

In recent years, our country has experienced a growing interest in animal issues,
beyond the traditional concerns of welfare and conservation of species. Many, "
of these issues are complex and controversial, and, as is often the case/When
mindsets are challenged, misinformation and misrepresentation abound. Members ‘
ofiCbngress wishing to act responsibly on behalf of their constituents (so many'
of ”Whom care so deeply about these matters), need to have access to information
from reliable sources on all sides of an issue.

The Congressional Friends of Animals, which is chaired by" Rep. Tom Lantos,
was founded in 1989 to address this very need. While still in its formative
stages, the Friends sponsored a Members brieﬁng conducted by renown
primatologist Dr. Jane Goodall and a staff tour of the NIH/ADAMHA facility in
Poolesville, MD. More recently, they sponsored a presentation critical of the
Exxon Valdez cleanup effort, a breakfast briefing on the status of the Silver
Spring Monkeys, and a forum on toxicity testing, complete with cosmetic and
household product samples not tested on animals.

Congressional Friends of Animals provides a forum for discussion on a broad
range of issues and the expression 'of a variety of viewpoints. The agenda is
open; it is shaped by those who join. In addition to acting as a clearinghouse
for information on animal issues, the Friends will continue to sponsor such

activities as expert debates, panel discussions, staff briefings and ﬁeld trips to
places of interest to its members.

Call Rebecca Davis at 202/225-3531 for more information.

 




 

M ON IT
THE CONSERVATION, 1
AND ANML WELFARI

1506 19th St,
Washington, DJ

Mexico's GATT Attack on U.S. D

“OR

HWﬂRONWEﬁUAL
scowsosrmma

, NW.
:2. 20036

10 May 1991

rolphin—Protection Laws

 

 

In February 1991 Mexico filed
United States at the General Agreeme
the 107—nation body that attempts to
and resolve trade disputes between D

Mexico's _challenge involves
yellowfin tuna which was imposed by
year under provisions of the Marine l
The Mexican tuna fleet has killed 6
over the past two years by failing tc
measures comparable to the‘U.S. tuna
to overturn a new U.S. law that sets
tuna "dolphin—safe.“

Briefs were filed by Mexico in
the end of April. Oral arguments wi
panel, from Hungary, Switzerland and
A ruling is expected in September.

Mexico has charged three violat;
charges are: '

1) Article XI of GATT, "Genera:
Restrictions.“ .Mexico claims that t]
not allowed under GATT rules and

limitation of imports that cannot
grounds.

2) Article IX of GATT, "Marks of

the U.S. law defining what is
Protection Consumer Information.Act o
GATT rule on labelling products, anc
action on behalf of the U.S. tuna in

3) ArtiC1e III of GATT, "Nation
that its tuna is not given similar
American fishermen.

The GATT case will test the i
"General Exceptions," which states th

3,

fleet.

formal complaint against the
on Tariffs and.Trade (GATT),
regulate international trade
ations.

a U.S. embargo of Mexican
U.S. federal court order this
iammal Protection Act of 1972.
:xcessive numbers of dolphins
n institute dolphin—protection
Mexico is also seeking

strict standards on labelling

mid—April and by the U.S. at
11 be made before a three—man
Uruguay, on 14 May in Geneva.

ions of GATT regulations. The

L Elimination of Quantitative
1e U.S. embargo of its tuna is
constitutes e1 protectionist

Ibe justified (n1 conservation

Origin.“ Mexico claims that
"dolphin—safe,“ the Dolphin
f 1990, is a violation of this
1 constitutes a protectionist
dustry.

al Treatment." Mexico claims

treatment to tuna caught by

nterpretation.<xf Article XX,
at “nothing sha11.be construed

to prevent the adoption or enforcemert by any contracting'party of

measures:...(b) necessary to protect
..(g) relating toiﬂ

or health;" and ".
natural
conjunction

consumption."

if
restrictions

resources

with 0

such measur

human, animal or plant life
1e conservation of exhaustible
es are made effective in
n domestic production. or

 

 

(202) 234-6576




.This GATT language,-adopted more than 40 years ago at a time
of little environmental concern, is now being tested in the case
of the more than 7,000,000 dolphins that have died in the nets of
the tuna industry. The precedent set in this case will have
enormous implications for a wide range of international
environmental issues that are impacted by trade.

The Mexican challenge to‘U.S. dolphin—conservation.laws is the
beginning of a broad attack on U.S. efforts to enforce domestic
laW' and international conservation treaties. - Japan, .Norway,
Thailand, Singapore, South Korea and Indonesia are among more than
a dozen nations that have declared their intentions to intervene
in the case in support of Mexico.

Many of those nations have been subject to or face U.S.
sanctions under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the Fisheryy
Conservation.and Management Act,_the Endangered Species Act and the .
Pelly' Amendment to the Fishermen‘s Protective Act for their
violations of whaling and fishing regulations and for trading in
endangered species. Japan, for example, was recently certified by
the U.S. for its enormous trade in endangered sea turtles.
President Bush will report to Congress by 19 May whether he will
embargo any or all wildlife products from Japan under provisions
of the Pelly Amendment.

A much larger fish embargo fight could develop in 1992 when
the U.S. enforces a recent amendment to the MMPA that will ban all
fish caught by driftnets after the 30 June 1992 United Nations
moratorium on pelagic driftnetting. Japan is already facing-a
possible U.S. fishery product embarg for its"research" whaling in
violation of the International Whal‘ng Commission's ban.

 

More immediately, the U.S. will later this month extend its
yellowfin tuna embargo to all intermediary countries that continue
to purchase the dolphin—unsafe tuna irom Mexico. And a new embargo
of yellowfin from Venezuela and Va uatu will also be applied in
June to nations that buy from them.

This impending secondary embargo is already making waves.
Japan and Italy, two major importens of Mexican yellowfin tuna,
have declared they will continue to trade. Japan says it may
retaliate against U.S. fish imports. Italy has called on the
EurOpean Community to file a GATT c plaint against the U.S.

 

There are :reportS‘ that trade officials in. the jEuropean
Commission have declared their intent to file an E.C. complaint
against the U.S. at GATT as soon as the intermediary embargo on
Italy is imposed by the U.S. This would begin a second
adjudication process within GATT and a new round of attacks on a
leading wildlife protection law.

The GATT system shields itself from public scrutiny and input
by claiming its proceedings and documents are "privileged" and
"confidential" because GATT considers all of its trade matters to
be solely “government—to-government."

 

 

###########ﬁ####

 




102D CONGRESS
H. R. 2152

To enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations international driftnet

Mr.

1
2
3
4
5
6

ﬁshery conservation program.

 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

APRIL 30,1991

STUDDS (for himself, Mr YOUNG of Alaska, Mrs UNSOELD, Mr MATSUI,
Mr KOPETSKI, Mr. RIGGS, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. Goss, Mr.
FRANK of Massachusetts, Mr. MILLER of Washington, Mr. LEWIS of
Florida, Mr. MCCLOSKEY, Mr. BEILENSON, Mr WAXMAN, Mr AUCOIN,
Mr DEFAZIo, Mr OWENS of New York, Mr. HOCHBRUECKNER, Mr
WILSON, Mr TOWNS, Mr. OBERSTAR, Mr. GEJDENSON, Mr REED, Mr.
MACHTLEY, Mr BRUCE, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. ACKERMAN, Mr DICKS, Mr
HERGER, Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr. JONES of North Carolina) introduced
the following bill, which was referred to the Committee on Merchant, Ma-
rine and Fisheries

 

A BILL

To enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations

international driftnet ﬁshery conservation program.

Be 'it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States ofAmer'ica in Congress assembled,
That section 206(f) of the Magnuson Fishery Conserva-
tion Act (16 U.S.C. 1826) is amended—

(1) in the ﬁrst sentence by inserting “(1)” be-

fore “If at any time”;

 




2
(2) by striking the second sentence; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:
“(2) Certiﬁcation by the Secretary under this subsec—

tion is deemed to be a certiﬁcation for purposes of section

8(a) of the Fishermen’s Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C.
197 8(a)).

“(3) Before September 1, 1991, the Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of State, shall certify to
the President each nation that is failing to comply with
the moratorium called for under paragraph 4(b) of United
Nations General Assembly Resolution 44/225.

“(4) Before September 1, 1992, the Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of State, shall certify to
the President each nation that is failing to comply with
the moratorium called for under paragraph 4(a) of United
Nations General Assembly Resolution 44/225.”.

0

OHR 2152 m

 




 

 

 

An Earth Island Institute Publication

SI’RINQ_1QQI

. v
111311;. " '
.. ‘ ' ..: o ‘.
o I \ ? -
.. \ ‘ \ - I
I: m \ w.
|.l‘| ‘\ \ | . \J
O ff
I . t \ . , .. ‘
l n “1. w ‘ t 1 ' "V
. - ~ /- ,r
y" M ”W. I“ 1' “r 5/
s ' I
“L. "I bu T“.‘ .w 3..(’w</
.' J \ I . ‘ .fl '5“ .
a ' .a i n '._‘\.v.r' y, .
\ L .
l p . u.
' '1 . \
”(fa it I J." K ‘
wv’.‘ " l u. 'y‘. .
I . /. .
'. A, ["5 I». . M .
_ . 1 ’1’ ’ . ./ _
i v u x In- ,
.I
V I " ',,.;-" -
1| 3 I I ‘ I A
I".| ‘I 0
. l 'u /:
. ; I ' A
l
I

 

 

 

 

Dolphin Campaign Mission:

We seek to eliminate the injury and death of dolphins caused by the the international
tuna ﬁshing industry. The encirclement of dolphins by purse seiners must be
prohibited and all use of driftnets must be banned.

 

 

 

 

 

 

1990 was a year of spectacular rogress for dol hins. The largest tuna companies in the world —— led by
H.]. Heinz, owner of StarKist una — ceased a l purchasing, rocessing, and sale of tuna cau ht by meth-
ods that harm dol hins. Our consumer campaign made the ifference. The total number of 01 hins
killed last year b S and foreign ﬂeets fell by approximately 50,000. Congress passed a federal abelling
bill; Panama an Ecuador have outlawed the practice of setting nets on dolphins, and the US fleet has
become almost entirely dolphin-safe.

The Earth Island Institute / Marine Mammal Fund lawsuit is forcing changes at the National Marine Fisher—
ies Service. Forei n countries are now on notice that if they continue to kill dolphins, their tuna imports to
the US will be em argoed.

But amidst the excitement and progress, the fight is not over — dolphins are still being killed by several
renegade US boats and by foreign tuna seiners from Mexico, Venezuela, and Vanuatu.

The following pages provide tools and resources to hel you learn more about the problem and what you
can do to help stop it. 1991 is a critical year and we loo forward to your involvement.

/ H h 7 CAM‘iiAICGNREPoiiTsW \ Dolphin-safe

° Global Monitoring i Monitoring
--EI Program for Dolphin-Safe Policies .............................. 1

' 10 Facts about the Tuna/Dolphin problem ......................... 2 Program Takes Off
' ' ' Bush Administration Threatens Dolphin Protection . . '

--State Dept. vows to allow Mexican tuna imports .......... 3 a The Dolphm Prolec" 539sz 610C;
' Labelling Bill Passes; New Dolphin Bill Introduced 1 bal Momterg .Ptmggf‘m tls (1’3 “5

--Ending the loophole for US and foreign fleets .............. 4 % Elﬁnmg‘ 580m 8. ”8C. or. re“ a
‘ . . 1 1an has begun investlgating op-
, Legal Update/ Court Victory ............... . .................................. 5 erations at many of the world's 1arg_
' European Community Role in Dolphin Slaughter ........... 5

; est canneries in five countries. As
i . What You Can D0 ................................................................... 6 part ofa new effort to monitor how

° Dolphin-Safe Criteria and where tuna and seafood prod-
--Provisions the companies must meet ............................... 7 3 ucts are caught and ensure that tuna

° BumbleBee goes Dolphin-Safe canneries, companies and process-
--Unicord enacts a worldwide dolphin-safe policy ......... 7 l mg faCilities are accepting only cer'
o The Boycott Continues tified dolphin-safe seafood products.

--Supermarket chains become new targets ........................ 7 , d1}? QCt‘iberr Brfegdiﬁtacctompa;
s Resources .................................................................................. 8 “19 Yllm 08“" ar “15 ,wen

(continued on page 3 )

 

 

 

EARTH ISL-1ND I.\'5‘II'I‘U'I‘L‘ 0 DOLPHIN PRU/EFT

 

 

Printed on Recycled Paper

 

 

 




 

 

DOLPHIN ALERT 0 SPRING 1991

1 0 Facts You Should
Know About the
Dolphin Slaughter

 

 

The following points are basic to
understanding the tuna/dolphin
problem. Raise these issues in your
letters to editors and Congress and to
explain the situation to others.

The dolphin slaughter
1 by the U.S. and foreign

tuna ﬂeets is by far the
largest killing of marine
mammals in the world.

More than one hundred thousand
dolphins are killed every year, over
100 times the number of whales
slaughtered. Our government
prohibits all whaling and has a long-
standing commitment to end all
international commercial whaling,
yet it still allows US. and foreign tuna
seiners and foreign driftnet ﬂeets to
continue killing dolphins.

2 Dolphins are
mammals like us.

Dolphins are intelligent, air breathing
mammals who are highly evolved,
communicate and work together in
groups. They are the only wild
creatures known to routinely save
human lives.

3 Killing of dolphins
is intentional

Dolphins are purposely sought by
fishers because they act as a beacon
for locating yellowfin tuna which
often form mixed schools with
dolphins. Dolphins are chased by
helicopters and speedboats for hours
until exhausted and confused.
Nursing and pregnant females are the
most likely victims of this inhumane
practice. The use of driftnets is also
estimated to kill more than 50,000
dolphins every year.

 

4 This killing of dol-
phins is the result of.
greed, not necessity.
Nearly 95 percent of all
tuna is caught without
harming dolphins.
The killing of dolphins by purse-
seine ﬂeets occurs only in the eastern
tropical Pacific Ocean (ETP), where
for unknown reasons yellowfin tuna
and dolphin swim together. Skipjack
tuna is abundant and can be caught
without killing dolphins, but more

. money is made by catching the larger

yellowfin tuna. The largest tuna
companies in the world are now
dolphin-safe. This is compelling
evidence that tuna can be caught in
ways that do not harm dolphins.

Stopping the

dolphin slaughter

would not shut down
the U.S. tuna industry or
result in tuna shortages.

Alternative techniques and fishing
areas are already being used to catch
tuna Without harm to dolphins. The
increase in price necessary to stop all
killing of dolphins would be only a
few cents per can.

The Marine Mammal

6 Protection Act is not
being properly
enforced.

The US. tuna fleets have been
allowed to evade restrictions, and
embargoes have not been imposed
on foreign nations with dolphin kill
rates in excess of the quotas
established under the MMPA.

EARTH ISLAND INS'I‘I'I‘U’I‘E 0 DOLPHIN PRO/[JCT

 

7 Dolphins killed by the
tuna industry are at
risk.

The eastern spinner dolphin
population has been reduced by 80
percent since this method of tuna
fishing was developed. The killing is
significantly damaging dolphin
populations. Hundreds of dolphins are
still killed every day. An average of
100,000 dolphins have been killed per
year by the tuna industry during the
past two decades; a rate that is
unsustainable.

Dolphins are killed

by U.S. and foreign
boats.

Although most US. tuna boats have
stopped killing dolphins, the kill
quota of 20,500 dolphins per year is
still in effect. Since 1981 the US.
dolphin-killing fleet has dropped
from nearly 100 boats to 2. Now that
US. tuna companies have ceased
purchasing dolphin-caught tuna, the
quota should be reduced to zero.

The effect of repeated
9 captures on dolphins
is unknown.

Many dolphins not counted in the
mortality estimates die later from
injury, trauma and shark attacks.
Some animals are chased and
captured several times in a single day.

You can make a real
1 0 difference by

purchasing only
Dolphin-Safe tuna .

Not all companies have stopped
purchasing tuna caught by killing
dolphins. Don’t buy brands that
aren’t verifiably dolphin-safe and
make sure your supermarket only
sells dolphin-safe tuna. A

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(GLOBAL MONITORING

continued from page 1)

to Thailand and Malaysia to inspect
canning and offloading facilities.
Thailand is key to the success of a
worldwide dolphin-safe policy, since
it exports more than 400 million dol-
lars worth of tuna to the US every year
and is also a major supplier to Eu-
rope. Thailand is the largest canned
tuna processing nation in the world.
In Bangkok, Brenda looked over pur-
chasing records and met with various
officials to explain requirements for a
dolphin-safe monitoring program. It
is a difficult policy to establish be-
cause of the large number of Thai
canneries and their historic reliance
on cheap driftnet caught tuna.

In addition to Thailand, monitor-
ing trips were taken to Fiji, the Philip-
pines, and Indonesia. ”We’re off to a
good start,” Brenda stated, ”but
we"ve only begun to scratch the sur-
face”. Earth Island Institute is now
establishing a monitoring office in
Thailand and concentrating on target
areas in Latin America (whose tuna
ﬂeets are still killing thousands of
dolphins every year), and European
countries (where there is a growing
market for canned tuna). ”It's crucial
that we don’t simply rely on industry
or government inspectors. We need
our own monitoring presence to see
that the supply of driftnet and dol-
phin-caught tuna is dried up.”A

 

DOLPHINALERT 0 SPRING 1991

Bush Administration
Threatens Dolphins

Behind the scenes, the Bush Admini-
stration is launching an all out effort
to seriously weaken the Marine
Mammal Protection Act. This move
comes after a series of high level meet—
ings between the US and Mexico
aimed at averting a tuna import em-
bargo even though the Mexican tuna
fleet’s dolphin mortality is higher
than allowed by law.

President Bush has reportedly
promised Mexico’s President Carlos
Salinas de Gortari to do all he can to
prevent a tuna embargo, including
seeking relief from the courts and
going to Congress to secure a special
exemption for Mexico. The move
comes in the face of growing Bush
administration pressure for a US-
Canada—Mexico Free Trade agree-
ment as well as other US-Mexico for-
eign policy considerations.

The State Department’s strategy
was dealt a blow in January when its
attempt to secure a binding intergov-
ernmental agreement with all the
nations currently setting nets on dol-
phins to reduce or eliminate the kill-

 

Formulating the dolphin-safe monitoring program for Thailand. Left to Right:

Mongkol Saraneeyathan of Unicord/TF PA, Varunee Masrungsun, Thai Union/TF PA,
Brenda Killian, EII, Mike McGowan, Bumble Bee, Ian Baird, Unicord/EII

EARTH ISLAND LVS'rI’rerE 0 DOLPHIN PRO/i-jcr

 

ing of dolphins failed. At meetings
held in La Jolla, California, a set of
”guidelines” were approved which
offer little if any reduction in the for-
eign dolphin kill. Even at that, Mexi-
can officials refused to formally sign
the document. The resolution, sup-
ported by the United States, Vene-
zuela, Panama, Vanuatu, and Ecua-
dor states in part that “Each country
should implement a program having
the objective of reducing dolphin
mortalities by its ﬂag vessels in 1991
to a level approximately 50% below
the 1989 level of dolphin mortality.”

Earth Island Institute has
roundly criticized the resolution as a
thinly veiled attempt to cripple the
Marine Mammal Protection Act. The
foreign governments failed to
achieve any dolphin kill quotas, and
the resolution is little more than a
recommendation. No progress was
made in efforts to phase out the set-
ting of nets on dolphins, nor will the
resolution even result in any signifi—
cant reduction in mortality. 1990 dol-
phin kill levels already reﬂect a de-
crease from the minimum mortality
figures of 102,000 dolphins killed in
1989 because of the ban on the use of
explosives and the prohibition on the
setting of nets after sunset.

As part of the intergovernmental
discussions, the US pledged its ef-
forts to defeat the new legislation in-
troduced by Congresswoman Bar-
bara Boxer, and to seek to amend the
Marine Mammal Protection Act to
replace the embargo provisions with
the elements of the intergovernmen-
tal resolution. Since the Marine
Mammal Protection Act is not up for
Congressional reconsideration until
1993, it would require a somewhat
unusual shortcut for action to take
place this year. Nonetheless, a major
fight is expected on this issue in the
spring. A

 

 

 

 




 

 

   

Labelling Bill
Becomes
Law

During the final days of the 10lst
Congress, the Dolphin Protection
Consumer Information Act of 1990
was passed and signed into law. The
bill was authored by Congress-
woman Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and on
the Senate side by Senator Joseph
Biden (D-DE).

While not incorporating all the
aspects of a dolphin-safe labelling
program that we had hoped, the law
is nonetheless a significant milestone
in our progress to put an end to the
dolphin slaughter.

The law is expected to go into
effect in May of this year. Below are
listed some of the important provi-
sions of the new law:

0 It establishes for the first time a
federal criteria for the use of the ”dol-
phin-safe” label; prohibits false and
misleading labels; and establishes a
framework for monitoring and en-
forcing these labelling requirements.

0 It requires that all tuna from the
Eastern Tropical Pacific labelled as
dolphin-safe must be accompanied
by a certificate from an official ob-
server from either the National Ma—
rine Fisheries Service or the Inter—
American Tropical Tuna Commis-
sion stating that no dolphins were
encircled during the entire trip.

0 As a first step, the law only covers
positive labelling. It does not require
the use of negative labels on tuna
caught by methods which are unsafe
for dolphins. However, many of the
bill’s sponsors indicated that they are
prepared to press for the negative 1a-
belling should the current legislation
fail to stem the ﬂow of unsafe tuna.

0 The bill requires a ban on the impor—
tation of driftnet caught tuna begin-
ning in July of 1991 and a ban on the

   

 

DOLPHIN AII‘R’I' 0 SPRING 1991

importation of all driftnet caught fish
products beginning in July, 1992.
This provision is an extremely impor-
tant step in the effort to protect not
only dolphins, but hundreds of thou-
sands of seabirds, whales, sea turtles,
seals and other members of our ma—
rine ecosystems.

We will be monitoring enforce—
ment of this bill and keeping up the
pressure to see that its provisions are
followed.

Our appreciation goes to Con-
gresswoman Boxer, Senator Biden,
Gerry Studds, and staffmembers Josh
Kardon, Jim Guthrie and Bill
Woodward for their diligent efforts to
Win passage of this bill. Thanks are
also due to all of you who wrote to
your representatives to let them
know how strongly you feel about the
protection of dolphins. A

  

eign nation which seeks to sell its tuna
products in the US.

The bill also requires that all for-
eign tuna vessels operating in the
Eastern Tropical Pacific carry a fed-
eral observer to document dolphin
mortality and provide information on
the methods of fishing used.

We believe this legislation is cru-
cial. At present, although there are
only two US boats still fishing by set-
ting nets on dolphins, the quota of
20,500 dolphins killed per year is still
allowed under the law. Other US or
foreign boats could decide to re-enter
the US ﬂeet, just at the time when US
dolphin mortality is finally nearing
zero. We must not let this happen.

Further, foreign vessels from
Mexico, Venezuela, and Vanuatu are
still killing tens of thousands of dol-
phins. They must not be allowed to

 

 

 

New Bill to Save
Dolphins

In early January, Congresswoman
Barbara Boxer again introduced new
legislation designed to end the need-
less slaughter of dolphins. The bill is
entitled HR. 261 The Dolphin Protec-
tion and Fair Fishing Act of 1991.

This legislation, if passed, would
amend the Marine Mammal Protec-
tion Act by phasing out all intentional
setting of nets on dolphins by US tuna
boats by the end of 1992, and requir-
ing a similar prohibition on any for-

 

 

 

 

 

EIR'I'II lsmxn I.\’S'I‘I'I‘U’I'I' 0 DOLPHIN PRO/IJC'I‘

 

Illustration by Ali Pearson

undercut the dolphin-safe markets by
selling their tuna in the US. The US
and foreign tuna ﬂeets should be on
the same footing, rather than allow a
few renegade nations to continue
profiting on the discredited practice
of setting nets on dolphins. These
countries must be pressured to find
alternatives and stop the dolphin
slaughter.

The Marine Mammal Protection
Act was designed to reduce the kill-
ing of dolphins to levels approaching
zero. This legislation offers an oppor-
tunity to fulfill the original promise of
the Act. It deserves our strong sup—
port. A

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

D()I.I’Ill.«\'/ll.L‘I\"l' 0 SPRING 1991

 

Legal Update

In August of last year, Federal District
Court Judge Thelton Henderson
handed down a stinging rebuke of the
US government's failure to prevent
the slaughter of dolphins by foreign
tuna ﬂeets. Judge Henderson granted
the preliminary injunction sought by
Earth Island and the Marine Mammal
Fund and ordered the government to
immediately impose tuna import
embargoes against any nations with
dolphin kill rates exceeding the limits
set by the Marine Mammal Protection
Act.

Judge Henderson agreed with
Earth Island's assessment that the
government has dragged its feet and
that the delays were not permissable.
In the complaint, argued by Josh
Floum of the San Francisco law firm
Heller, Ehrman, White and McAu-
liffe, the government was accused of
”abuse of its discretion and violation
of the law by failing to ban tuna im-
ports from offending countries.”

In his strongly worded order,
Judge Henderson stated, ”Simply
put, the continued slaughter and de-
struction of these innocent victims of
the economics of fishing constitutes
an irreparable injury to us all, and
certainly to the mammals whom Con-
gress intended to protect. Indeed, for
those species now threatened with
extinction, the harm may be irrepa-
rable in the most extreme sense of that
overused term.”

More than 85,000 dolphins were
killed by foreign ﬂeets in 1989. The
kill rates among foreign tuna boats
are two to four times higher than
those of the US ﬂeet. The US govern-
ment appealed this decision to the 9th
Circuit Court of Appeals.

Additionally, as of the beginning
of 1991 foreign countries fishing on
dolphins must meet new, more strin-
gent dolphin mortality levels. We are
returning to federal court to seek an
order forcing the government to ban
tuna imports from countries not
meeting these rates.

 

Legal Eagles -

Earth Island’s legal effort to protect
dolphins has been made possible by
the extraordinary efforts of a team at
the San Francisco firm of Heller,
Ehrman, White and McAuliffe. Heller
et al. took the dolphin case on a pro
bono basis for Earth Island and the
Marine Mammal Fund in 1988. In the
past two years, their efforts have won
a succession of key legal Victories that
have compelled the placement of ob-
servers on every US tuna boat and
required the enactment of measures
to drastically reduce the dolphin kill.
Our greatest thanks for their dedica-
tion and continuing fine work. A

News Flash

On February let, the 9th US. Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals ruled in Earth
Island’s favor and re—imposed the
tuna import embargo against Mex-
1C0.

This court ruling is a tremendous
victory for Earth Island and sends a
strong signal to Mexico that unless it
ends the practice of setting nets on
dolphins, it will continue to lose tuna
markets around the world.

Under provisions of the em-
bargo, all yellowfin tuna from Mex—
ico is now banned from import into
the US. After 90 days, the ban also
extends to tuna products from “inter-
mediary nations”. This means that
countries currently purchasing tuna
from Mexico and then selling tuna to
the US. will have to certify that they
are no longer purchasing from em—
bargoed countries. Failure to do so
will result in an embargo of their tuna
exports to the US. Countries such as
Italy, Spain, and Japan, who currently
buy from Mexico and sell tuna to the
US. will be on notice that they must
find alternative markets.

Finally, after a six month period
of embargo, Mexico will be certified
under the Pelly Amendment, and this
certification provides the President
with discretionary power to expand
the tuna import embargo to other fish
products. A

Emu! [91 .mn I.\’S'I'I'I'U'I'IT 0 DOLPHIN PRO/ECT

Europe Still
Importing
Dolphin-Uns afe
Tuna

Despite repeated posturing over the
last three years, the European Com-
munity has yet to take any action to
stem the ﬂow of tainted tuna into the
EC common market. Following de-
velopments in the US, Europe has
become the world's dumping ground
for tuna caught by killing dolphins.
Among European nations, Italy has
become the largest importer of dol-
phin-unsafe tuna in the world, receiv-
ing over 50,000 tons from Mexican
and Venezuelan vessels in 1990 alone.
Without the Italian market, most of
the dolphin killing vessels would
have gone dolphin-safe by now.

 

Working in conjunction with the
Humane Society of the US, Sam La-
Budde is focusing on the European
threat. Letters protesting Italian in-
volvement in the dolphin slaughter
are needed urgently. Indicate your
outrage by writing, calling, or faxing
to:

Embassy of Italy

1601 Fuller St., NW
Washington, DC 20009
Phone (202) 328-5500
FAX (202) 462-3605

Letters to the Commission of the
European Community expressing
dismay at Europe’s role in fostering
the dolphin slaughter and urging a
ban on imports of dolphin-unsafe
products should be sent to:

Vice President Manuel Marin
The European Commission
Rue de la Roi 200 B-1049
Brussels, Belgium

(55 cents postage required) A

  

 

 

 




 

 

 

DOLPHIN ALLRI‘ 0 SPRING 1991

 

What You
Can Do

Intensify the Pressure

 

0 Despite the Heinz announcement,
your help is still needed. Private
companies, supermarkets, and
housebrand tuna labels are still
buying and selling tuna caught at
the expense of dolphins. Don’t
buy any tuna unless it is certified as
dolphin-safe by Earth Island. Right
now only StarKist, Chicken of the
Sea, Bumble Bee, Ocean Light and
Deep Sea tongol tuna currently
meet our standards.

0 Help us spread the word that this is
a crucial time for ending the
dolphin tragedy once and for all
and reducing the US kill quota to
zero.

0 Press your local supermarkets and
restaurants to stock only dolphin-
safe tuna. See information on the
900 number for sending letters to
the Supermarkets.

Public Outreach

0 Make your neighborhood, school
or city a dolphin—safe zone. Con-
tact store owners and explain the
campaign. Many have agreed to
post information about the effort.
We will provide posters and
brochures.

Schools can plan units focusing on
the dolphins and their marine
ecosystems. Teaching Kits are now
available. Write to us for details.
Class letters to companies and
government officials do make a
difference.

Booths can be set up at fairs,
supermarkets, and other gather-
ings. We will provide updates and
factsheets.

0 Write to us for help with your
outreach efforts:

 

300 Broadway #28
San Francisco CA 94133
(415) 788-3666

Films

0 Where Have All the Dolphins
Gone ?, the award-winning Marine
Mammal Fund film is now avail-
able on 1/2” VHS video for
purchase or rental. This is the
definitive work on the causes and
consequences of the relentless
slaughter of dolphins and the
government’s failure to enforce
laws protecting them.

VHS copies of our campaign video
with footage taken aboard a foreign
tuna seiner and news coverage of
the campaign are also available for
showings to family, friends,
schools, and clubs.

Make Local Media
Contacts

0 Newspapers, radio, and television
stations will cover this issue,
especially if contacted by people in
their local area.

0 Newspapers can run news stories,
letters to the editor, opinion pieces
and editorials. Let them know the
effort to save dolphins is not over!

0 Radios will do talk shows. We can
provide public service audio
announcements. Television sta-
tions can run news stories based on
the undercover footage which is
available from Earth Island on 3/ 4"
tape.

Write letters

Keep the letters pouring in. They

- have been a key part of our success.

0 Tuna companies, supermarkets, and
restaurants should be pressured to
stop buying dolphin-caught tuna
NOW. Their failure to immediately
become dolphin-safe is costing
dolphin lives.

EARTH ISLAND LVS‘I‘I'I‘II’I‘I; 0 DOLPHIN PRO/LCI‘

 

0Write your senators and Congress-
people to encourage passage of
HR. 261.

OPut pressure on the National
Marine Fisheries Service and the
Department of Commerce to
reduce the US and foreign ﬂeets’
dolphin kill quotas to zero.

OHelp convince the European
Commission that countries in
Europe shouldn’t become the
dumping grounds for dolphin-
caught tuna.

0Write to the Italian Embassy and the
EC and demand an end to
purchases from the Mexican ﬂeet.

Send those letters to:

0 Your Representative
House Office Bldg.
Washington, DC 20515

0 Your Senators
Senate Office Bldg.
Washington, DC 20510

0 Dr. William Fox
Nat'l Marine Fisheries Service
US Dept. of Commerce
Washington, DC 20230

0 Mr. Robert Mosbacher
Secretary of Commerce
14th and E Streets, NW
Washington, DC 20230

0 Embassy of Italy
1601 Fuller St., NW
Washington, DC 20009
Phone (202) 328—5500
FAX (202) 462-3605

° Vice President Manuel Marin
The European Commission
Rue de la Roi 200 B-1049
Brussels, Belgium

Save the Dolphins Project
300 Broadway #28

San Francisco, CA 94133
Tel (415)788-3666

FAX 415 788-7324

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

In Search of
“Dolphin-Safe”
Tuna

Here’s a list of companies who have
adopted worldwide dolphin—safe
policies and provided Earth Island
with the assurances necessary for us
to feel that these policies are verifiable
and fully implemented:

1. STARKIST (H. ]. Heinz)
2. CHICKEN OF THE SEA
(Mantrust of Indonesia)
3. BUMBLEBEE
(Unicord of Thailand)
4. DEEP SEA TONGOL (imported
by Humble Whole Foods)
5. OCEAN LIGHT (imported
by Humble Whole Foods)

 

 

Dolphin-Safe
Criteria

Earth Island Institute has worked
assiduously to achieve full protec-
tion ofdolphinsfrom mortality asso-
ciated with tuna fishing and drift-
netting. We do not consider a com-
pany "dolphin-safe” until it has pro-
vided assurances in writing to com-
ply with the following provisions:

 

DOLPHIN ALERI‘ 0 SPRING 1991

1. Documentation must be pro-
vided verifying that no tuna prod-
ucts purchased, processed, and / or
sold by the company are caught in
purse seine nets in association with
dolphins or by use of driftnets of any
length.

2. Purchases from the Eastern
Tropical Pacific must include a cer-
tificate from the US gov’t or Int’l
Commission observer attesting that
no dolphins were encircled during
the entire fishing trip.

3. This policy must be applied
worldwide and include related com-
panies including all parent, subsidi-
ary, and sister companies;

4. This policy must cover all
products containing tuna purchased,
processed or sold, including those
products not intended for human
consumption, such as pet food;

5. A company must agree to
support federal legislation to set a
uniform standard for use of the "dol-
phin—safe” label;

6. The foregoing policy must be
implemented pursuant to a fully veri-
fiable procurement program that in-
cludes on-site inspection, access to
records, and the requirement of cer-
tificates from suppliers that they do
not process or sell dolphin-unsafe
products. A

 

tute’s olphin Project.

 

(415) 788-3666. FAX 415 788—7324

k

/ The Team At Work \

The SISing ’91 Dolphin Alert is a publication of Earth Island Insti-

Staff: David Philli 5 (Director), Brenda Killian (Associate Director),
Sam LaBudde (Bio ogist), Donna Woish (Office Manager),

Sara Meghrouni (Outreach Coordinator), Liz McGhee, Debbie Flag
(Merchandise and Research Assistance), Maria Eastman (Educationa
Coordinator). and Judy Edwards (Intern)

Legal Team: Elisabeth Robinson, Joshua Floum, Mike Charlson,
Cynthia Koehler, Wondie Russell, Deborah Sivas, Ted West.
Additional Assistance: Stan Minasian (Marine Mammal Fund),
Ani Moss and Lise Snyder (Dolphin Connection), Emerson Dunning,
Public Media Center, and Wiltshire and Associates.

Special Thanks to our many hard working volunteers

Office: 300 Broadway, Suite 28, San Francisco, California 94133.

 

EARTH 151..»wn “51111111: 0 DOLPHIN PROJECT

BumbleBee
Goes Dolphin-
Safe

In late February, Earth Island reached
agreement with Bumble Bee Tuna
and its parent company, Unicord of
Thailand. BumbleBee has now pro-
vided the assurances necessary to be
considered a fully dolphin—safe com-

pany.

Earth Island had mounted a vig-
orous 9-month campaign to force en-
actment of a written and verifiable
worldwide dolphin-safe policy. Full
page newspaper ads and BumbleBee
counter ads were run in papers across
the country. The campaign has suc-
ceeded. '

Meetings held in Washington
DC, San Francisco, and Bangkok,
Thailand achieved a series of written
and binding worldwide commit-
ments. Brenda Killian, Dolphin Proj—
ect Associate Director, travelled to
Thailand for re-inspection of Uni-
cord facilities and efforts to ensure
that Unicord’s worldwide operations
are thoroughly monitored. The dol—
phin-safe policy implementation
problems have been corrected and a
strong on-site observer program is
now in place.

We appreciate the support of all
our members who helped us achieve
this success! A

 

 

New Targets:
Supermarkets

One of our next goals is to force all
the major supermarket chains to sell
only dolphin-safe products. This is
the best way to stop the many small
brands which continue to sell dol-
phin-unsafe tuna. Write us for more
details about this campaign, and con-
sider calling the 900 number listed on
the Resource Page. When you call,
three letters will be sent in your name
to the largest supermarket chains in
your area. It has worked before and
will work this time. A

 

 

 

 

 




Earth Island Institute

300 Broadway Suite 28
San Francisco, CA 94133

Nonprofit Organization
US. Postage Paid
Permit No. 1414

San Francisco, CA

 

Campaign
and
Activist
Resources

Earth Island has a number of resources
to help educate your community about
the dolphin slaughter, and to inform
people about ways they can help end the
slaughter.

Briefing Document

Our first research publication, The
Tragedy Continues, describes the
causes and consequences of the tuna /
dolphin problem. It is useful
background on the issue. ($5 each)

 

Videos

Our campaign video including a
segment narrated by Sam LaBudde
taken undercover aboard a tuna
seiner, is now available on 1/2 inch
VHS tape for a $5 one-month rental or
$9 purchase.

Also available on 1/ 2 inch VHS tape
is the new video Where Have All the
Dolphins Gone?, narrated by George
C. Scott. At a special purchase price
of $19.95 for members, $29.95 non-
members; or $9 one-month rentals.

Bumperstickers

Beautiful blue bumperstickers
hin, 12” long -—

Earth Island Dolphin Project Order Form

Item

Videos (Purchase)
Campaign video

Where Have All the Dolphin Gone
* special member rate

Videos (Rental)
Campaign video

Where Have All the Dolphin Gone

Briefing Document
Tragedy Continues (48 pp)

T-shirts:

Price Quantity Amount

$15 each
$29.95 each
$19.95 each

5.00 each
9.00 each

$5 each

$12 each

_ Small __ Medium _ Large _ Extra-Large

Stop the Slaughter Bumperstickers
Teaching Kits (2 week rental)
Silent Educator Stickers
Copies of this Dolphin Alert
Color Brochures

California residents please add 7% tax
$2.00 for Shipping and Handling

$1 each
$25 each

60 for $1; 1,000 for $12
10 free; then $10/100

$5 per 100

Total Enclosed ........

Please ship to:

Name:

 

 

Address:

 

 

 

 

 

City/State/Zip:

 

 

 

 

Please send International Money Order for orders placed outside US.

 

Silent educators

These peel-off fluorescent orange
stickers can be stuck anywhere.
Comes with an instruction sheet on
how to use these to organize a
campaign to get your local
supermarket to join the boycott. 60
stickers for $1.00, 1,000 for $12.00.

Teaching Kits

The restless clamor of two hundred
students falls to a hush as a school of
dolphins swims to the narration of
George C. Scott. As the film pro-
gresses, the children are learning first
hand how purse seining affects dol-
phins. ”Why does the President let
this happen? What tuna can I eat?
How can I help stop this?” These
questions can be answered either by
a presentation by an El representative
or by renting our education kit which
includes slides, narration, educa-
tional material, and a copy of the
Video ”Where Have All the Dolphins
G0ne?”.

Brochures and Alerts

We are pleased to make available
copies of this dolphin alert and our
color brochures for wider distri-
bution. We also have membership
forms if you would like to tell your
friends to join our campaign.

T -Shirts
Our beautiful ”Save the Dolphins”
full color T-shirts silk screened with

vivid non-toxic ink onto 100% white
cotton.

900 for Dolphins

By calling our campaign 900 num-
ber, three mailgrams will be sent in
your name to the largest supermar—
ket chains in your area urging them
to sell only dolphin safe tuna
products. This is a quick way to
have a huge impact. An automatic
charge of $5.95 will be made on
your phone bill. The number is:
900 737-0077, operator 25.

 




4,

Save the Dolphins Project

EARTH ISLAND INSTITUTE

300 Broadway, Suite 28
San Francisco, California 94133—3312
Telephone: 415-788-3666 ‘
FAX: 415—788-7324

.‘ o" - ' -. . . .J . . . . . ~ - ‘ ,- ‘ .*
(mﬁi‘n '1 .. ‘ '5‘: . M ""1 ll '"K '~ ‘ c “If, ‘3‘” I H'ﬂ'l'if‘i‘. ,~
N; - -"“'1t(i""” ‘ \ ..
' ‘3 \. “W " “ - ‘ «WW ‘ -

- ' mm;

Dolphin—§afe Tuna -- A Key $292 for ﬂaring Qggsgrvatign

 

~— Prepared by David Phillips, Executive Director,

Earth Island Institute, San Francisco, California

Earth Island Institute is pleased to provide testimony on the
status of efforts to prevent the killing of dolphins by US
and foreign purse—seine fleets operating in the eastern
tropical Pacific Ocean (ETP) and to eliminate the use of

drift—nets worldwide .

On April 12, 1990, the H.J. \ Corporation -- owner of the
largest tuna company in the world -- agreed to demands by
Earth Island and other environmental organizations that they
cease all sale of tuna caught by setting purse-seine nets on
dolphins, and by all use of drift nets. Although intended
primarily as a measure to protect dolphin populations in the
ETP, the decision has had far-reaching and positive impacts

on dolphins, tuna, and marine ecosystems in general.

0 The benefits to dolphins have been swift and dramatic.
The US tuna fleet's dolphin kill has dropped from a 1983—1988
annual average mortality of approximately 15,000, to a 1991
estimate of less than 1,000. This represents more than 90%
reduction. A year ago there were 30 US tuna boats setting

nets on dolphins; today there are two.
0 Panama and Ecuador, two countries whose fleets have

historically netted dolphins in the ETP, have now prohibited

the practice.

100% Recycled Paper

 




0 We estimate that 50,000 fewer dolphins will be killed
by the combined US and foreign tuna fleets during 1991.

0 Despite concerns that the dolphin—safe policy would
hurt yellowfin tuna populations, the opposite has been true.
Thus far this year 35,000 tons less tuna has been taken from
the ETP, reducing pressure on a resource that many believe
has been overfished. Many US purse-seiners have relocated to
the western tropical Pacific (WTP), where the predominant
catch is the more prolific skipjack tuna and dolphins do not

swim together with tuna.

- The dolphin-safe policies are helping seal the fate of
the Pacific drift-net fleets from Japan, South Korea, and
Taiwan. These fleets have taken a huge toll on albacore
tuna, as well as decimating populations of sea turtles,
seabirds, marine mammals, sharks and other non-target fish.
Major canneries in Thailand, Indonesia, and the Philippines
have ceased all processing of fish products caught by drift

nets.

0 The sale of dolphin-safe tuna has become the industry
standard in the US and the United Kingdom, and is taking hold
in France, Switzerland, Canada, and Australia. Markets for
dolphin-unsafe tuna continue to be closed. More than 85% of
US tuna sales are now dolphin—safe. World prices for
dolphin—unsafe tuna have slid twenty percent as more buyers
require only line—caught albacore and ETP tuna from certified

dolphin-safe trips. The European Community is receiving

significant pressure to ban all importation of dolphin-unsafe

tuna.

0 Recently the major supermarket chain Safeway
instituted a policy to sell only dolphin-safe products at
their network of more than 880 supermarkets nationwide. The
new policy covers not only the firm's canned tuna, but all

pet foods and frozen tuna products containing tuna.

 




0 On April 11, the Ninth Circuit US Court of Appeals
ruled unanimously in Earth Island Institute's favor and
required the imposition of a tuna import embargo on Mexico.
The federal court has since expanded that embargo to include
Venezuela and Vanuatu. All foreign countries setting purse
seine nets on dolphins in the ETP are thus currently under
embargo for failing to meet required dolphin mortality rates
established in the Marine Mammal Protection Act. (See

appended legal chronology)

Despite these positive developments, dolphins continue to be

killed and further progress is needed.

0 Mexico and Venezuela continue to set nets on dolphins

and to export their tuna to Italy and Japan.

- Drift—net fleets are seeking out new markets as a way

of continuing this ecologically destructive fishing method.

0 Mexico has filed a formal challenge of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) and the Fisheries Conservation and
Management Act (FCMA) under the General Agreement of Tariffs
and Trade (GATT). Mexico contends that the tuna import embargo
provisions of the MMPA and the tuna labelling provision of the
FCMA contravene GATT. The case is currently being argued

before a panel in Geneva, Switzerland.

0 Several US boats continue to set nets on dolphins and
find foreign markets for their dolphin-unsafe tuna. This
loophole would be closed under terms of Congresswoman Barbara
Boxer's HR 261, the Dolphin Protection and Fair Fishing Act
of 1991.

We look forward to working with Congress to bring the killing

of dolphins by the US and foreign fishing fleets to zero.

 




h_ologoo_ .-

June 22, 1990: El seeks preliminary injunction seeking embargo

Of imports of yellowfin tuna caught in the ET? until
comparability determinations are filed showing
comparability with the 2.0 rate.

.August 28th: Federal court (judge Thelton Henderson) rules in
Earth Island's favor and orders that the Commerce
Dept ban imports from all countries not meeting
the 2.0 dolphin kill/set comparability rate.

embargoes lifted by NMFS Service

Earth Island seeks temporary restraining order on
imports of Mexican tuna because of the failure to
meet the data requirements and kill rates.

October' 4, 1990: Federal Court rules in Earth Island's favor and
grants temporary restraining order. Forces re-
imposition of embargo until Secretary of
Commerce, after considering data for the entire
1990 fishing season, determines that the required
rates have been met.

October 10: embargo re—imposed on Mexico

November' 14: 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals granted the

Secretary of Commerce's motion for a
appeal; embargo on Mexico lifted.

av pending

4

February' 14, Hearing held before 9th US Circuit on
embargo.

February 19, 1991 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals lifts
February' 21: embargo re-imposed on Mexico

March. 18, 1991: Hearing in federal district court on El request
for injunction requiring import bans on all coun—
tries not meeting the 1.25 rate for 1990.

March 26, 1991: Federal Court rules in Earth Island's favor and
orders embargoes against Mexico, Venezuela, and
Vanuatu. (Panama and Ecuador are not embargoed
because they provide all the necess y assurances
that they have prohibited all c='. » nets on
dolphins, and maintain a 100% v” - ogram to
enforce it.)

Venezuela

in favor of Ear
ircuit Court of

 




W

In February Mexico filed a formal challenge of two US laws; the Marine
Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) and the Fisheries Conservation and
Management Act (FCMA). Mexico contends that the tuna import embargo
provisions of the MMPA and the tuna labelling provision of the FCMA
contravene GATT. They requested the formation of a dispute resolution
panel and a hearing convenes on May 14th in Geneva. The panel is made
of representatives from Hungary, Switzerland, and Uruguay.

19 countries have thus far requested the opportunity to intervene,

including Thailand, New Zealand, Canada, European Communities,

Australia, Japan, Singapore, the Philippines, India, Costa Rica, Cbil
arag

e,
Korea, Norway, Senegal, Venezuela, Peru, Indonesia, Columbia, Nic ua.
An adverse ruling by the full GATT council could have extremely negative
consequences on the variety of international trade and import sanctions
imposed for conservation purposes. The issue will be a major test as to
whether the GATT will use open trade as a mechanism to override
environmental protection.

We believe that the embargo provisions are entirely consistent with
GATT. They were established as a method of conserving dolphins, and

have not been applied discriminatorily, nor do they benefit the US tuna
industry.

 




(ﬂea/«W M 5%. mtg,
MIYAKE-JIMA NW?

A Tiny Island,
A World—class Conservation Problem

wuounuou tuna!“ uaucdtc t n

poaoubylap c.3306! :ruapuo LII ‘qtnxq; puvtlr n21

 

The issue

The Japanese government has proposed building a 2—km runway on Miyake Island of the
Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park, Japan. This is for touch-and-go training for jet pilots based
on U.S. Navy aircraft carriers. One of Japan's most precious natural treasures is at stake.

Would the U.S. government consent to building a military airport in Yellowstone Nation—
al Park? Probably not. Then, why in Japan's National Park?

The International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN)
has already listed this proposed military airport site on Miyake-jima among the "Threatened
Protected Areas of the World".

The Wild Bird Society of Japan (WBSJ) has geared up to protect this prime habitat in
a rich island ecosystem which includes the habitats of two irreplacable endemic species of
birds and many other unique environmental complexes.

Where WBSJ stands

 

Although there is massive political opposition to the airport among the island's
residents and others, WBSJ is not taking a political stand. Our opposition is based strict—
ly on the principle of nature conservation—~the protection of endemic birds and their habi—
tat in particular.

When the future integrity of a national park system is threatened, WBSJ believes
that it deserves global concern beyond the interest of just the one nation. Its superb
natural environment and island heritage should be left undisturbed, not only for the Japa-
nese people, but for all visitors from all over the world.

It is certainly not the intention of WBSJ to step into the political arguments con—
cerning the U.S.-Japan Security Treaty. WBSJ therefore employs an independent campaign
seeking understanding and cooperation mainly from the conservation—oriented organizations
nationally and internationally.

With an open mind, WBSJ is willing to discuss the matter with anyone sincerely
concerned, hoping to come up with some viable alternatives such as a revolutionary idea of
a runway floating on the ocean.

Why WBSJ opposes

 

l. The proposed runway would destroy the prime breeding habitat of the Izu Island
Thrush (Turdus celaenops) and Ijima's Willow Warbler (Phylloscops ijimae) which occur only
in the Izu Islands and nowhere else on earth. Both species most abound on Miyake—jima.

 

 

2. Miyake-jima is an integral part of the Fuji-Hakone—Izu National Park. The area
encompassing the proposed runway site has been designated as a Special Protection Area, the
strictest nature protection within a national park, and lst and 2nd Class Special Areas——
unique natural environments, volcanic in nature and rich in subtropical fauna and flora
with many endemic species. These are given special protection. The airport construction
would override these protective measures and it poses a serious threat to the basic spirit
and philosophy Of Japan's National Park System. The runway itself would destroy more than
2,000,000 square meters of especially treasured park land.

3. The proposed site lies within the limits of the National Wildlife Protection Area
established by the Japan Environment Agency. Japanese Wood Pigeon (Columba janthina) desig—
nated as a National Natural Monument lives there all year round. On Miyake—jima 212 species
of birds have been recorded and it has the highest bird population density of any comparable
area in Japan.

 




 
      
 

Miyake—jima

-+—,'Z_

4. The proposed airport would adversely influence

the progress of the undersea marine park proposed by the A Oyama
Tokyo Metropolitan Government. Should the runway Juan A:j :
construction proceed,this unique plan will have to be ac

re—examined, perhaps even abandoned.

5. This airport site has been designated as the a
Central Model Area within a sanctuary proposed by the
Wild Bird Society of Japan for the Miyake Village Govern— A-Proposedzrkmairstrmsite
ment. If the most important part of the sanctuary is B; The Central Model Area of a bird
replaced by the airport, the enthusiasm of the island sanCtuan’EHOposath'WBSJ

O

. The planned undersea marine park

nctuar will be in vain.
people for the sa Y D. The existing local airport

6. Points 1-5 above are all based on the recognition of the unique natural features
at the proposed airport site. Witness: the mosaic combination of original vegetation and
secondary growth; lava flow from the recent eruption of Mount Oyama; some of the richest
agricultural land; the serenity of shrine environments; rocky coast line; unspoiled ocean
with the northernmost occurrence of coral. What Miyake—jima's nature can offer best as a
living nature museum of a volcanic type is all represented in compact fashion only at the
southwest end of the island--the proposed airport site.

What WBSJ has done

The WBSJ's campaign has concentrated mostly on generating as much national and inter-
national concern as possible for the protection of Miyake-jima's natural environment-—an
aspect of the opposition strategy which had not been used before. Specifically, WBSJ:

l. Wrote an appeal to the Environment Agency and the Defence Facilities Administra—
tion Agency for the protection of Miyake-jima.

2. Asked the WBSJ's members and concerned citizens to send postcards to make our
environmental concern known directly to Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and President
Ronald W. Reagan.

3. Sent letters to the U. S. government officials concerned——President Reagan,
Defence Secretary Weinberger, Navy Securetary Lehman, Interior Secretary Hodel, and U.S.
Ambassador to Japan Mansfield.

4. Sent letters to the national and international conservation organizations
soliciting their support for the campaign by expressing in a letter their own concern to
Prime Minister Nakasone and President Reagan.

Encouraging responses

 

WWF President H.R.H. The Duke of Edinburgh to Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone:
"... I must draw your attention to the growing concern throughout the world about
the plan to build an airfield ... I hope you will find it possible to resist the pro—
posal to build a military airfield on the island of Miyake—jima."

IUCN Director General Kenton Miller to Prime Minister and Defence Secretary Weinberger:

Jlii "We are writing to you to express concern about the proposal ... IUCN has dtermined
' l

 

that the natural values of the Miyake—jima island are so high that we strongly urge
alternative sites be sought for the proposed landing strip ..."

Fauna and Flora Preservation Society Executive Secretary John A. Burton to Prime Minister:
"On behalf of the FFPS, I would like to draw your attention to the proposed develop-
ments ... I believe that the WBSJ has already made representations, and we would like
to add our support to this highly respected organization, in its opposition to the
development of an airport on Miyake~jima."

ICBP President RuSsell W. Peterson to Prime Minister:

"... While I appreciate your desire to satisfy the U.S. government's request, I urge
you to consider alternative sites. We are alerting our members throughout the world to
the possibility that the airstrip will be constructed in a site so valuable to wildlife.
If I can assist you in any way concerning alternatives, please feel free to contact me
through the Wild Bird Society of Japan."

 




ICBP President to Assistant Secretary of the Navy Everett Pyatt:

"... I would be pleased to meet with you on this issue, and if you think that it
would be useful, I will invite representatives of the Japanese environmental community
to come to Washington to give you a special presentation on the area. We are most
anxious to see that this problem gets solved before it becomes a battleground of the
Japanese government will vs. the people with the U.S. government in the middle. Any
help you can give will be greatly appreciated."

ICBP Asian Section Chairman T. W. Hoffmann to Prime Minister:
"... On behalf of all the Asian National Sections I ... appeal to you to reconsider
it (an airport plan) in the light of growing worldwide awareness of the need to protect
such unique systems and the life they contain. I hope that this appeal will be given due
consideration..."

ICBP Australian National Section Chairman R. Buckingham to Prime Minister:
"...The members (of the Australian National Section), and your many friends in
Australia, strongly urge you to reject the proposal and to seek other ways, should
they be indeed necessary, of providing training facilities for US Navy pilots."

ICBP Australian National Section Chairman to U.S. Ambassador to Australia L.W. Lane:
"...The United States would be one of the last places in the world to give over a
National Park to the training of naval aircraft pilots. In the light of this remarkable
insensitivity on the part of the US military I am writing, through you, to request the
responsible officials in Washington D.C. to withdraw their proposal and support for the

construction of an airstrip on Miyake-jima..."

U.S. Assistant Secretary of the Navy L. Wayne Arny, III to WBSJ President Seiichi Yamashita
responding to WBSJ letters to both the Secretaries of Defense and the Navy:

"...The United States Navy has made our requirements known to the Government of
Japan for airfield facilities which could be used by United States Navy aircraft for
training purposes. Your government is making every effort to provide suitable facili—
ties to satisfy our needs.

The United States Navy has not been involved in the selection ofthe specific loca-
tion for the proposed airfield; this has been and will remain the responsibility of the
Government of Japan. I suggest you make your environmental concerns over the proposed
selection of Miyake—jima known to your government."

 

[WBSJ COMMENT] Thus, the U.S. holds itself blameless. But, is it? Obviously, the U.S. govern-
ment has the power and the responsibility to reject the proposal. Since the U.S. govern-
ment has been and undoubtedly is far more sensitive to the environmental matters than the
Japanese government, it is the United States, WBSJ hopes, that will take an initiative
leading toward the environmental protection of Miyake-jima.

 

A flood of protest letters have been sent
by concernedindividuals and environmental
groups throughout the world. Noteworthy is

the expressly advocating statement from
the leading American NGOs such as National

Audubon Society and Sierra Club.

    
 
  
 

  
  

   
 
    
    
       
      
   

acs‘:y'—£S11*E:Nm.ﬂ

u ngEﬁ'
ﬁe? V

"C. l. ... .ﬁzft ‘T<f:.3t ‘Q

...:XJ 21:13:71.2 “

    

{SEEKE

{Huﬁ’ﬁai ﬁ

 

A postcard writing campaign has been receiving
enthusiastic and steady support in Japan.

WBSJ alone has prepared over 23,000
ready-to—be-signed postcards for this purpose.
(TV and press coverage on this aspect of campaign)

l _
%‘;.'-_h"l
1-0va
DI r ‘n‘llwzop
mam A .,
“"...—.1": "‘W‘Nu :33." M"
.u;

m

h—
“ht. K..."
:1“: -""M~f-q..' “ht-‘1-
h hum M5.
n.__ w...“
“~-

 




What to do from now on

WBSJ would like to express at this moment our sincere gratitude for all who helped
mount the international concern on the issue, and further ask your continuous support until
the Miyake-jima issue is won. In particular:

1. Whenever and wherever an opportunity is at hand, please repeatedly express indi-
vidually or on behalf of your organization your concern on the issue to the Japanese and
U.S. government authorities concerned.

2. Please ask the editor of your society magazine to cover this controversial issue.
WBSJ is ready to help and supply information for an in—depth article and, if you like, to
show a writer—photographer around the island for a photo—taking mission.

3. Please advice WBSJ on tactical alternatives. The practical application of a

floating runway (FRW) needs to be seriously examined and advanced politically, technically,
economically, and environmentally. Any idea and relevant information will be appreciated.

Chronological events

 

1982 Aug. The U.S. Navy requested the Japanese government to provide training?airport
alternative as the currently operated Atsugi Airbase was so greatly involved in
jet noise controversy with the surrounding build—up area.

1983 Dec. Miyake-jima was proposed as a runway site.

1984 Mar. Announcement by Miyake-jima local government opposing construction of the
proposed runway. I

1985 Nov. Signatures against the airport construction have been collected from 85 percent
of the island voters and turned in to the Defence Facilities Administration Agency.

1986 Jan. The U.S. government requested the Japanese government to give highest
priority to settling the issue at the earliest possible date.

Feb. The Japanese party in power (Liberal Democratic Party) has scheduled a meeting
with Miyake—jima residents to try to "buy them off" with an "island development
scheme". Such a meeting has met with stiff opposition from the village people.

Mar. WBSJ and the Nature Conservation Society of Japan publicly announced their
opposition to the runway construction, highlighting for the first time the
implications for protection of the flora, fauna, and the natural environment. They
appealed to the Environment Agency and the Defence Facilities Administration Agency,
and started mounting a campaign to raise the national and international concern.

May Faced with the determined opposition force inside as well as outside Miyake—jima,
the party leaders abandoned thier initial intention to hurriedly conclude an
agreement for the airport before the Tokyo Summit of the seven leading industrial
nations.

June WBSJ representatives attend the ICBP World Conference in Canada.

Miyake-jima (34°05'N, 139°31'E)

 

Situated some 180 km south of Tokyo, it is a
SSIﬂnzisland in the Izu Islands with a population of
4,300. The only peak is Mt. Oyama, an active volcano,
813 in elevation. It is designated as a National Park
of volcanic nature which contains unique endemic
fauna and flora in both terrestrial and marine en—
vironment. It is a popular birdwatching and sight-
seeing spot in quiet natural surroundings. The whole
island has been proposed by WBSJ as a bird sanctuary.

 

WILD BIRD SOCIETY OF JAPAN (WBSJ)

Established in 1934, it is Japan's largest and most active private organiza—
tion in bird and nature conservation with 16,000 membership. Its activities are
centered around the protection of birds and their habitats with the wider view of
environmental conservation: Education, fund-raising, protection campaign, research,
sanctuary planning and management, publications, international cooperation.

Inquiry: WBSJ, Aoyama Flower Building, 1-1-4 Shibuya, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, 150 Japan
Tel: 03—406-7141 FAX: 03-406'7144 Cable address: YACHONOKAI TOKYO

 

 

 

Special Report June 1986

 




 

(gala. BtrlSoaths of Japan

Wild Bird Society of Japan#;

 

 

 

 

 

Wild Bird Society of Japan (WBSJ) is a private
conservation organization. It was founded in 1934
for the purpose of protecting birds and their
habitats, encouraging more people to enjoy
birdwatching, and conducting research concerning
the status and habitats of birds in Japan.
Everyone is welcome to join and participate in the
many activities held. Today, WBSJ has 6667
chapters all over Japan with a total of over

M>#5,000 members and is still growing. There are 26
staff members at the headquarter . ' “r—

 

 

lBird Protection Campaign_ﬁ

 

One of WBSJ's main goals is to protect birds and
their habitats. The following are some past
achievements and ongoing protection activities:

-WBSJ succeeded in putting geese on a
protected birds list so that they could no
longer be hunted (1971).

-In order to protect the Pryer's Wood pecker,
endemic to Japan, WBSJ raised a fund to pur-
chase the land where they are found (1975).

-WBSJ conducts a protection campaign to forbid
the poaching of raptores.

—WBSJ is involved in various conservation
activities such as protecting the wetlands and
mudflats and in being aware of any decision
made that may affect birds or other animals.

 

' '- - - : . “-‘5'-‘lzi\';§'>3"'3‘='3'::2'i:§:§:¢:§:

Protection Fundsﬁﬁﬁ

 

With the support of members, WBSJ has been able to
establish the Wild Bird Protection Fund and the
Japanese Crane Protection Fund. These funds
are used to construct wild bird sanctuaries and to
preserve bird habitats.

 

 

[Birdwatching Activitiesdﬁ

 

Each of the 6? chapters sponsors bird watching
trips for all those who wish to enjoy them. Each
chapter plans its activities to fit the needs of
its members and the area, and at the same time,
coordinates its plans with the headquarters.

 

Sanctuaries,ﬁ§

 

Bird sanctuaries (Lake Utonai Sanctuary, Fukushi-
ma-shi Kotori-no-mori Sanctuary) are open so that
people may enjoy and learn about birds. WBSJ
is responsible for the upkeep of these sanctuar-
ies. No admission is charged. We're trying to
increase the number of sanctuaries in Japan.

[m

WBSJ conducts the Nationwide Wader Count, studies
the habitat and distribution of birds, investi-
gates poaching of birds, etc. These results are
important for bird conservation.

 

 




 

[Bublications; Films

 

WBSJ publishes a monthly magazine called "Yacho"
.(B-4,50 pages) for the members and other original
books about birds such as A Field Guide to the
Birds of Japan (in English). Through film and
slides, WBSJ informs people about the protection
of birds and their habitats. WBSJ has about 50
films (16mm. color) of birds}for conservation
education.

 

WBSJ sells birdwamﬂﬁng goods, books, room acces-
sories, postcards, calendars, and so on. The Bird
Shop located at the society's headquarters also
includes a film library and rental slide programs.
All of the profits from WBSJ's store goes toward
activities for the protection of birds.

 

[International Cooperation ﬁﬁ

 

WBSJ works with conservation organizations of
other nations (especially East Asian nations) to
protect important areas for migratory birds and
tries to prevent the import or export of endan-
gered species of birds and animals. WBSJ also

holds meetings and conducts research and with
other nations.

As a member of WBSJ:

-You support the conservation activities of
Japan's most active, largest private conserva-
tion organization!

-You join field trips sponsored by our
chapters!

-You participate as a volunteer in our inter-
national programs!

-You help our research and field surveys!

~You receive WBSJ's membership card!

-You receive our monthly magazine "Yacho",
full of interesting articles!

-And you can stay at some inns near good
birding areas at a discount rate!

‘Please join us in the important work of protecting
birds and natural environment!!

Membership:Regular '34,000 (+ ¥ 500 enrollment,
first year only)
Supporting ¥ 10,000
*Overseas add ¥750 for the cash charge.

(b5 Dew Dru-5+)

Address:Wild Bird Society of Japan'——7*%%muu9thgwmﬂ
Aoyama Flower Building, -[)mswn
l-l-4 Shibuya, Shibuya-ku,
Tokyo 150 JAPAN
Tel:03~406-714l

 

 

 

 

 




swan
sagas

331% la: 73‘ EE-

MHW¥E
ﬁﬁﬁ‘Kt‘éb

 

l00 maﬁa
55500530

 

 

AIR MAIL.

The Honorable Ronald WReagan
President
The White House

1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
Washington DC. 20500 USA.

 

EB 1% l3: 7’)“ a:

iaﬂtwlyﬁﬁ’tﬁizifft lZWUVJ‘U’C. E§/\ﬂ'=\'—Tl10 I. ’3 ’C‘Tb‘BtH L’C ( 7‘53 L‘o
Mﬁ—‘HZE ( ml: 72‘ U ﬂiﬁﬁib'ﬂlli. rNo military airport on Miyake-jimaJ ®Ut§T+ﬁTio bf;
7:0)ﬁiliﬁt% i i (72‘ U 7303']? B BZKEE'C’H'O Z 5'53} T:7‘:“L,*)"1’ V’E’DH’C ( 752‘ U) @3371?

 

$96 (1&0) 2 01°70
The Honorable Ronald W. Reagan, President T-lﬂﬂ ﬁjcj‘igﬁHZﬁElZiEEmggq

The White House magi as
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW W i" E EPE'EEEM‘;

Washington D. C. 20500 U. S. A.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fiﬁa)7;3%%a
ﬁ‘MTiz'Ez‘Ei. %97£L‘T (7": Wish

E¥€%Ewkﬂﬁ$m:aik7ﬁ373@
4'4’VVAV?4 é’liljwtféi’f’ﬂfﬁﬁifv(fl‘iffﬁ‘LfL‘i'i’o
ﬁﬁ‘JODAE‘of‘ EiﬁiifﬁWéaliRiiﬁ?ﬁctiixiiﬁﬁlﬂ°mf<fféh‘0

 

 

 

 

My Dear Mr. President:

 

I, a member of the Wild Bird Society of Japan,
want to ask you,

“WOULD YOU APPROVE OF A MILITARY BASE
IN YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK?”

Of course, you would not.
But now the US. Defence Department is requesting Japan
to build a military airport in a highly-treasured part of
our foremost National Park —MIYAKE Island
in the Mt. Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park.
Please help us stop this desecration of our parklands.

Most respectfully yours,

ﬂ
;
4
iﬁﬁ
72
€—
9
7‘:
73
7E
if»
2
f5
$5
%
l/
at
9
/

 

ﬁgﬂ’é‘E eel: ﬁWTé/ji’iﬁféé’c rm ac //

xazsmzmxszaawaaeec; *ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁmmﬁﬁmﬁéallﬁiﬁm L Pmiﬁaa‘a twi—ﬁiﬁb‘stb
b‘o‘CVit, birth $§mﬁ>79117llﬁﬁmcl=lbﬂho 77::‘y21’P’f’fv’7A97’ftu’Jlﬁﬁ’C‘bﬁ
E$ETLb£ﬁL¢uﬁ§tbmxmﬁinhuareui¢€ﬂttmﬁéﬁibfts%%mﬁﬁéﬁ
ii L ch ’30 :®/\7J'=\=&?£EL’C < fievo tﬂﬁiﬂ >1<TBEEVO ETJIEL '7 Hﬁaﬁﬁyoacnwmﬁsﬁ
tzlis *éé/vwsmmrmmeum Lto #lﬁlttfvisﬁﬁtmtbiﬁ'o

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

1. E '
«J a}

«L

w
a

z'
.5 u

Kw )-

 

 




,xﬂﬂﬁfﬁg
‘ . ’I T.
7 f

 

 

 

”Our 79th 'eYéir”

DECEMBER 1934

« mom REFUSES To LEevE HER ms

 

 

 

 

SEE STORY & PHOTO PAGE 8

\l I \ \‘
“% ”é ~§§V§§
\§ 401““ 44““ W

5" l‘\\

4//

PETS FOR ADOPTION
Page 6-7. l2-l3

 




 

Ki.

2 Humane News December 1984

LETTERS NEEDED TO SAVE
WHISPER OF WISCONSIN

. ... . .._.¢.’ r...

 

 

In the Nov. issue of the HUMANE NEWS, it was revealed that Gov. Thomas
Kean has been receiving so much mail concerning the plight of Whisper,
the deer from Wisconsin, that it has made the “Top 10” issues of the
state. Judging from correspondence that the Society is continuing to
receive, more & more animal welfare groups & individuals are coming
to the Society’s aid in its effort to try & keep Whisper at Popcorn Park Zoo.

For first-time readers of the HUMANE NEWS, Whisper was a fawn rescued
by a Wisconsin couple who befriended the animal. When they found no
refuge for the tame baby, they contacted our Society who drove to Wiscon—
sin & brought the young female back to Popcorn Park.

After several months, the Division of Fish & Game issued a Summons
to the Society for keeping the deer without a special permit. The Society
contended that its blanket permit was sufficient. The matter was heard
before Lacey Township Municipal Court Judge Stephen Russo who found
the Society innocent of the charges. The Division of Fish & Game has ap—
pealed the verdict to the Appellate Court.

The Division has stated that if they win this court battle, they will put
Whisper in a “good home”. Whisper is in a good home at Popcorn Park
Zoo. It is a 6 acre fenced-in area where she can live out her life with other
deer in peace & tranquility. We urge all animal lovers to write letters &
pOSt cards to Gov. Thomas Kean, State House, Trenton, NJ 08625, urging
that Whisper be allowed to live out her life in peace & safety at Popcorn
Park ZOO;

   

 

HELP FREE CAPTURED GORILLAS

According to ANIMALS
Magazine, the Committee of the
International Union for Conser-
vation of Nature & Natural
Resources has purchased 7
lowland gorillas which had been
captured from the wild 'by_
animal traders in Cameroon &
placed them on breeding loan
in Netherlands’ Burgers
Zoological Gardens. The US.
Dept. of Interior has denied re-'
quests from 3 US. zoos to im-
port these gorillas as trade in a
rare, species which would defy
the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species.
The International Primate Pro-
tection League feels that this

purchase was just a laundering
scheme carried out by the lUCN
Committee which has no con-
stitution, no by-laws, no officers
& no legal right to purchase
these gorillas. The lPPL has ask-
ed the lUCN to return these
animalsto Africa so that they
can be rehabilitated & rein-
troduced back to the wilds &
they have also asked the
Cameroon government to ban
the export of gorilla from their
_- country. Letters can be sent to:

Dr. Kenton Miller, Pres. Paul Biya

CH-1196 Gland
Switzerland

Cameroon

General Director, lUCN Presidince, Yaounde

.

Special ‘ 'hristmas Edition

GARDEN STATE ANIMAL CONTROL
FINED $2.000 FOR ANIMAL CRUELT‘I

Manuel Fernandez, owner of Garden State Animal Center in Howell
Township, was charged with illegally selling animals for experimentation
& 39 counts of animal cruelty by the SPCA. In an early morning raid by
the SPCA. the officers said they found animals in cages without water,
animals in cages that were too small, a dead, half-eaten puppy in a cage
with 3 others pups & 2 adult dogs. As part of a settlement reached be-
tween his lawyer & an SPCA lawyer, Fernandez pleaded guilty to 2 animal
cruelty charges & the remainder were dropped. The charges regarding
illegally selling animals for experimentation were dropped when Helena
Vrana of Vrana Research Animals of Millville refused to testify on the
grounds that she may incriminate herself. Vrana’s refusal came after Den-
nis Kirsch of JaCkson testified during the 5 day trial that he took animals
from Fernandez & later gave him half the money he made selling the
animals to Vrana. For the two cruelty charges, Wall Township Municipal
Court Judge Evan W. Broadbelt fined Fernandez $2,000.00 plus another
$50 for court fees.

Manuel Fernandez & Garden State Animal Control services many Mon-
mouth & Ocean County towns as their animal control or as the holding
facilities: , .
MONMOUTH COUNTY Little Silver South Belmar
Allenhurst Loch Arbour Spring Lake

Asbury Park Long Branch Spring Lake Heights
Atlantic Highlands Monmouth Beach Union Beach

 

Deal ' Neptune City West Long Branch
Highlands Oakhurst OCEAN COUNTY
Hazlet Oceanport Beachwood

Holmdel Ocean Township Berkeley Township
lnterlaken Red Bank Lakewood

Jackson Sea Bright Manchester

Keyport Shrewsbury Borough Point Pleasant Beach

Keansburg Shrewsbury Township Seaside Heights

 

SKUNK LOSES ITS LIFE
AFTER BATTLE IN LEGHOLD TRAP

 

This skunk was rescued by NJ state licensed wildlife rehabilitator
Virginia Andresen of Toms River. She received a phone call from a
Jackson resident who found the skunk caught by the rear leg in the
cruel device. She contacted the Society & arrangements were
made to bring the young male to the Newark shelter for immediate
medical attention. The rear leg was amputated. Although traps are
to be checked every 24 hours, the Society’s Chief Veterinarian ad-
vised that the skunk had been in the trap for at least 48 hours. Due
to the poor physical condition, the skunk clung to life for 2 days &
then passed away. An old injury to the front paw would indicate he
might have had a previous encounter with a leghold trap. A name
tag was 0n the trap & the trapper advised he had permission from
the landowner. The Society presently has the matter under in-
vestigation.

 

 

A
V,




 

 

Humane News December 1984 3

11540011111511 Humane SOCieUes 1110

313% 124 Evergreen Ave. Newark N. J 07114 phone: (201) 824 7080 s\.' 3...

Dear Friend,

In this hOIiday edition of the Humane News, We have tried to
bring a very small sampling of the activities performed by the
Society on a day-to- day basis.

There are a myriad of efforts that we carry out for the welfare
of animals — too numerous to mention, too trivial to appear in
the magazine, too gruesome to photograph but the Society is
there to carry Out these tasks.

We can only carry on through your suppOrt. The Society 1s not
funded by the federal, state or local governments. We have no
grants, no huge wills to help in our daily struggle to survive.

The Society is a business —— a humane business. It costs money
to keep animals alive. We need to keep our orphans clean, warm,
fed, well-cared for medically, we investigate cruelty, rescue

 

wildlife, assist the elderly & needy with their pets, we assist 4

youngsters who come in with a stray animal, we visit nursing
homes with pets, we answer hundreds of letters each week from
,5? people all over the country who are concerned about a neighbor
5% who 1s cruel to their pet, or who need assistance with an animal
“' problem, a student doing an essay on leghold trapping or animal ,
research. The Society helps many, many animals & people.

As a new year begins, we look over the last year & feel we have
accomplished a lot —- but it’s never enough. Not when there are
animals that are starving, cold, hungry, mutilated for science,
and cruelly abused during slaughtering. We will not be content
until every puppy & kitten born will be a wanted one.

During this winter season, thousands of animals will suffer,
freeze, starve — unless you can help. This winter and its cold
weather will bring us more strays, abandoned, sick helpless
animals. We cannot help them all, but we try to help as many
as we can. We’re a team of professionals working 365 days a year
»_ . (even New Year’s Day). We’ re doing our best, but we cannot con-

m tinue without yOur help. Would you help us to give a little joy

V2.17
to those who have no voice and have no choice.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

v

4 Humane-News December 1984

*t‘4sHow BIZ PERSONALITIES HELP 5

,As the Society has enlarged its circle of friends, we have come to in
The support, concern, generosity & the outpouring of love that we

Because of their star quality, we thought you might like to read about a few of them .....

 

PHOTO SUPPLIED
Star of our 6 Pack for Stray Program
is Herve Villechaize, affectionately
known as Tattoo. Along with Herve’s

active efforts with the plight of

, runaways & other humanitarian
causes, he has found time to set up
& service the Society's contribution
cans which he places with mer-
chantsin his neighborhood.

PHOTO SUPPLIED
Comedienne Phyllis Diller, who is
just as beautiful on the outside as
she is within, has been a supporter
of the Society. Ms.‘ Diller recently
sent the Society two autographed
copies of her' newest book, “THE
JOYS OF AGING & HOW TO
AVOID THEM" published by
Doubleday. The Society has includ-
ed the bOoks in our prizesfor the for-
tthming Chinese Auction.

   
   

Channel 5’s “SATURDAY MORNING LIVE,” a 2 hour television
show with a magazine-type format hosted by Bill Boggs, invited the
Society along with'a few animal welfare groups in the metropolitan
area to bring some homeless animals for a brief talk. Noted animal
behavioral expert, author & trainer, Warren Eckstein, who handles
the animal portion of the weekly show, interviewed each of the
groups. Society Director Lee Bernstein appeared on our behalf with
Buddy the blind dog from the Animal Haven Farm & a little pup who
had been abandoned at our doorstep with 8 brothers & sisters.

 

- . mg“ 53? 5:5 gait-e... .

Bill Boggs (L), host of “SATURDAY MORNING LIVE” & noted
animal expert Warren Eckstein, flank Society Director Lee Berns-
tein who holds Buddy the blind dog & a female pup who is waiting
for a chance at happiness. Her file number is 155175 & she is at our
Newark facility.

   
       

\
.§ 5.
X \
kR-t

Mignon & Kurt Kippstatter of Easthranby, Conn. who are with the
Metropolitan Opera Company, with their newly-adopted Afghan. They
came back a week later for another one!

When Tramp, the blond Afghan was pictured in the July/AuguSt issue of
the HUMANE NEWS, the first subscriber to indicate an interest in the
unkempt wait was Mignon & Kurt Klippstatter of Cennecticut who are with
the Metropolitan Opera Company. Not only did they rescue Tramp, they
came back a week later to take Pasha, the black-Afghan pictured in the
same issue. In a post-adoption conversation with Kurt Klippstatter,he ad-
vised that Tramp, now re-named Sampson, no longer looks like her “mug
shot.” She has filled out beautifully & is well—groomed. Although Pasha
did not get along with Sampson, he was given to some dear friends who
are providing a loving homefor him. '

 

\ , _, ‘4 Special Christmas Edition ,
OCIETV ANIMALS H

clude among its many supporters many well-known and well-loved celebrities.
have received from many notables has been a source of great delight to us.

BIII Berlom with Society alumnus,

Bugsy, who is now appearing as in

Toto in “THE WIZARD OF 02.”

Bill Berloni, owner of-Sandy who
starred in the Broadway show “AN-
NIE”, is pictured with Lady, an or-

phan that Bill adopted from the

Society. Alsoknown as Bugsy, the
young terrier played the leading role
in “CANNONBALL SIMP” which
has appeared on The Disney Chan-
nel. Bugsy, who has now been bit-
ten by the show-biz bug, will be play-
ing the role of Toto in the ”WIZARD

» OF OZ” production to be held at the

Westbury- Music Fair (N.Y.) from
Dec. 7th thruDec. 29th. After that,
the show will be playing for 4 weeks

at the Valley Forge Music Fair (Pa.)'

starting January 3rd. If you are con-
venient to either of the theaters, we
hope you will make it a point to see
the show. Bugsy is still an unspoil-

ed, down-to-earth doggie who would , '1

love to meet some fans.

 

The Christmas decorations such as
holly berries, mistletoe, poinsettia,

ribbons, ornaments, tinsel, angel

hair, & jingle bells can cause
sickness, injury & death to pets.
Make it a safe, happy & healthy holi-
day for all.

~ n
.u‘ l>

  

 

 




 

 

Special Christmas Edition

NATION-WIDE
ADOPTION PROGRAM

The Society has been gratified by the number of people who have inquired
about adopting a pet. All of the animals adopted out of state are neutered,
given heartworm tests, fecal checks, up-to-date inoculations, health &
rabies certificates —- all at nor charge to the adopter. The only cost for
those who are adopting an animal that is shipped by plane is the cost
of the air freight and the kennel crate. For more information on a par-
ticular animal or a specific breed, please send a note to Nation-Wide Adop
tion Program, c/o Society, PO. Box AF, Keyport, N.J. 07735.

Somerset. Massachusetts

   
   

13:

Dr. Ruth Miller of Somerset, Massachusetts opened her heart & her
home to two Society orphans.

The Society maintains a waiting list for those who express a desire to
adopt a particular breed of dog. When the Society received a 2 yr. old
Great Dane by the name of Rebel, we notified those on our waiting list.
One of the first callers was Dr. Ruth Miller of Somerset, Massachusetts.
Arrangements were made to bring Rebel from our Forked River facility
to the Newark Animal Care Center in order to save traveling time for Dr.
Miller. When she arrived at the Society, she also saw a beautiful unnam-
ed brindle Dane who had come in as a stray & had waited to be adopted
for more than a month. Not only did Dr. Miller take Rebel, she also took
the brindle Dane! In a post-adoption conversation, the Society learned
that they are working out marvelously as their dispositions are friendly
& gentle. The brindle lady has been christened Princess & Rebel has been
re-named Roosevelt to fit in with her own Dane known as Churchill. Our
thanks to Dr. Miller for opening her heart (& her very large home) to 2
needy dogs. In the past, Dr. Miller was kind enough to find a home for
Tootsie Roll of Totowa, a Share-A-Pet she was sponsoring. Dr. Miller ad-
vises that Tootsie Roll is doing just great with his new family.

East Falmouth. Massachusetts

Alice Wolsely of North Famouth,
Massachusetts, who is also
Secretary of the Cape Cod Humane
Society, contacted the Society when
she saw the sad-faced picture of a
Keeshond in the October issue of
the HUMANE NEWS. Being a fan-
cier of the breed, Alice knew a few
people who would be interested in
her. After her trip to Boston, the
young female Keeshond was bath-
ed, groomed » & then adopted to
Richard Diggers of East Falmouth
who owns another Keeshond.’She
has been named Missy, she has a
fenced-in yard, 3 brand new
playmate & a loving family to round
out her happy holidays.

 

Humane News December 1984 5

SHARE-ﬁ-PETS FIND
SHARE 0F HAPPINESS

Thanks to the wonderful hearts of many HUMANE NEWS subscribers,
you have helped to give a “new leash on life” to many of the unadoptab
le waits under the Share-A-Pet Program. Most Of the animals under this
program were included due to their “unadoptability” because of age, han-
dicap, cruelty, etc. Because the animals in this prOgram have a
“guaranteed future”, the adoption procedure is more stringent — especial-
ly when there are hundreds of dogs, cats, puppies & kittens who do not
enjoy the benefits of the Animal Haven Farm & whose future is not to
assured. Here are some lucky Share-A-Pets who have finally made it —

or should we say, have it made.

Blind Boy
of Roselle

   
 

/

Although Blind Boy was pictured in
the June issue of the HUMANE
NEWS, he didn’t get lucky until he
was placed on the Share-A-Pet Pro-
gram in October. Joyce & Kolin Motz
of Elkhart, Indiana kept his picture
in a prominent place until ar-
rangements were made for the real
thing. They wanted to provide a lov-
ing home for the sightless lad & the
offer for medical care to possibly
regain his vision. Blind Boy arrived
in Indianapolis to meet his new
owners who brought with them their
family pet, Lobo the Shepherd as the
welcoming committee. It was a
special dinner treat of Chicken
McNuggets for each dog en route
home & within a few days, it was a
trip to the vet & then to the eye
specialist. Joyce & Kolin were heart-
broken when the eye specialist ad-
vised that Blind Boy, now re—named
“Poco”, had been blind long before
the cataracts had developed & the
retinas were entirely destroyed.
Even without sight, Poco has keen
senses & even knows when a cer-
tain doorknob turns, that doggy
treats will be handed out. He knows
the entire house & has the run of a
fenced-in yard although he
prefers walking on a leash. Poco &
Lobo have become great compa-
nions & he’s even getting used to
the 3 cats. Joyce thinks Poco is the
gentlest & sweetest dog she’s ever
known & as time goes by, his per-

     

Brownie
of Bayville

 

Olive Wilson of Bayville, N.J. with
Brownie —— the dog she rescued
twice!

Brownie is a 9 yr. old one-eyed gent
who was pictured in the April issue
of the HUMANE NEWS when he
was included under the Share-A-Pet
Program. Brownie’s owner had been
hospitalized & passed away shortly
thereafter. Somehow, Brownie had
been overlooked & was left alone at
home unattended for several days.
The Society rescued him & brought
him back to our facilities. Olive
Wilson, a long-time friend of the
Society who visitsthe Forked River
facility several times a month spot-
ted the one-eyed dog as soon as she
walked in. It was Olive Wilson who
had originally rescued Brownie from
the Waretown Pound many years
ago & gave him to his long-time
owner. And now it was Olive who
once again rescued Brownie. Accor-
ding to Olive, Brownie is happy, well
& doing just fine.

 

sonality blooms. According to
Joyce’s mom, Olive Hope, who is
there often, Joyce & Kolin just spoil
him rotten! Who said happy endings
are only in fairy tales?

 

 




 

 

 

 

TREASURE ”"

 

Dear Santa: Puppies like me are a
real treasure. I’ ll give you love &
kisses & bring nothing but
pleasure. I can go for long walks
& play in the snow. Put me under
the tree with a big red bow. File
M-42516.

 

Dear Santa: I’ve heard some talk

that you’re going to take me away,
and deliver me. to my new home
in your sleigh. I’ve heard that
there’s shiny things that hang on
a tree, and toys & love for puppies
like me. File M-42477.

     

‘ /fi*-
r

 

norm or H

 

Dear Santa: Can you take me for
a ride in your sleigh? Then find me
a nice home where I can stay. If
you pass me by, it’ll really be
shocking. I’m the cutest gift you
could put in a stocking! File
M-42332.

COONHOUNO

 

Dear Santa: How Christmas can

be “merry” is way beyond my
scope, when there’s so many
homeless dogs like me just losing
hope. Friendly, healthy, family
pets deseving new starts. Won’t
you bring the gift of love & open
people’s hearts? File M-42238.

— [Ar'i‘Tin «9-3.
”.81“: ‘ \

 

7"”;1 . _ ,. t. .r f. 6h§ . n ‘ , )4:
“T 3m." r13): f f“? w 5 7‘. 5“" '5 w 3‘ H J, v?" 1
.‘“ " .,.-A‘=..n’~‘;‘ﬁ,. Kyla as? dig-is! . 1'35: $3.0. .‘L

TOOTSIE ROLL
OF

Dear Santa: Please come here &
take me away & get me a home
where I can stay. Even though
they’re nice here & treat me well,
if I never saw this place again, I’d
be happy as h--I! File M-42428.

NATASHA or ,,

 

Dear Santa: Why my owners left
me here I haven’t got a clue. But
losing your home before Chrismas

can sure make a white dog blue.

I’m trying hard to be patient, but
it’s really getting tougher. I want
a home for Christmas, can you
make me a “stocking stuffer”?
File M-42488.

 

 

ADOPT 6N ORPHON

CHI CHI OF

I»? ' ”5:. gr I: ~_J
rm ,4 ,. , , ‘ (ms!
3" “‘q L-Il ' r." -, . ; £11,4-; ‘1‘. 3,£.1' J .5111: 4 ‘ {IL A

l- a l'

 

Dear Santa: I got adopted to a
home & boy, was everyone glad.
Two months later, they didn’t
want me & boy, was everyone
mad! Surely there are owners
who’ll appreciate me. I’m small
enough to fit under any Christmas
tree. File M-42459.

HUSKY

 

Dear Santa: If someone would
share their turkey or Christmas
ham, I’d show them how grateful
I really am! They’d gain a compa-
nion a dog who’s a winner, &
guaranteed I’ll never be late for
dinner! File M-41820.

 

2960 Shafto Rd., on Route 547

2 miles. from Rt. 33-34. Take Parkway Exit 102 (80.), Parkway Exit 1008 (No.)
Phone (20]) 922-0100 ’

 

 

I
s
E
l
I
l
I
I




 

 

b I}? ,u .{1' h E; "L ..‘ s l ’1
. _: AI 3‘ T ‘ A y w P
l“ ”3’." if th’ef g g" “ V9 5 lJ h “l + :- (V

 

Humane News December’1984 7

 

     

His owner brought him to us when
she was at the end of her rope.
She couldn’t train the 5 mo. old
pup — we don’t know who’s the
dope. If you’re the type that has
time to sew & bake, then you may
have the time to help train Jake!
File 0-25776.

% SOPHIE or

 

 

This will be my second Christmas
at the shelter & that’s pretty
dreary. It’s enough to make the
staff turn teary. They’ve kept me
here so long that I must deserve
_a chance. Won’t someone please
give me more than a glance? File
M-41179.

 

   

Only 8 months old & I’m all alone.
I have no one I can call my own.
Do you want a brighter year after
holiday hassles? Just crown me
your king & take me to your cas-
tle. File 0-25725.

, =1 v‘ ’ . ' y .

POINTER *

 

Did someone give you a poinset-
tia plant to brighten up your
room? We have something bet-
ter that would take away the
gloom. You must keep it watered
daily, give it food & love in full
measure. Lo 8: behold, she’ll be

 

a blooming treasure. File
0-25630.

umane Way at
6.8 miles off Parkway, Exit No. 74 (South)

 

 

 

.9
‘4

3' ‘33“ 141:. "z .1“. .' fl'igt L 51¢ ,

 

A gorgeous Golden left on the
loose. An irresponsible owner
almost cooked her goose. No
tags, no leash, no collar did this
young puppy wear. The youngster
needs a loving owner who will
give her some care. File 0-25775.

Do you want to start the New
Year off right? How about this
loveable, laughable mixture of
sheer delight. He’ll wake you
early with kisses—you won’t
need a rooster. This little guy is
a sure energy booster! File
0-25605.

  

i
a»

. .4.

 

  

3; f':‘.“.;“?y ‘1’ “

V. 3;»: -_ ' 3 4‘7. ,, '3- "" ,
7"" ‘;_ -- . ‘ nix: ' ’ ‘ .y . . ‘
‘ H l H V.‘ 71“"- , \l'm- "‘ '
5"\ 3.5 ‘i .' ‘
y 0 I I L I if r“

Phone (609) 693-1900

 

What are you getting for
Christmas . . . your 11th bottle
of perfume? I’ll be much more
“scents”-ible...l don’t even
take up too much room. I’m a
young bouquet of mixes—a very
gentle blend. Just uncap my lov-
ing heart & ‘l’ll be your best
friend. File 0-25691.

 

t 6” 3%,; 2’32

l iaz.‘..2:€ is. LA :‘r‘t’r '11:: at:

masmrm

Do you want a loveable dog with
whom you can do the “monster
mash”? Here’s a gentle giant‘—
but bring lots of cash! He’s a very
special dog -- a unique breed.
The donation for him helps to pay
for the mix breed’s feed. File
0-25604.

 

 

v.
. ;'
a.r:~
\.._
.J ‘1}
if. ,l

 

\

 

 




       
        
 

8 Humane News December 1984

new HOME BEING BUILT FOR
80886 THE Bean

  
     
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
    
  
   
    

 

 

The Society has started to put up fencing where Bubba’s new home
will be located - just behind Osa & Ursula the Black Bears from Maine.
Bubba had originally been purchased in South Carolina by a New York
man who didn’t realize What he was getting into. A Building Fund has
been set up for Bubba & the Society is also accepting sponsors for
Bubba under the Popcorn Park Wildlife Club. All donations for Bub-
ba can be sent to him at the Society, PO. Box AF, Keyport, N.J. 07735.
Be sure you specify if your donation is for the Building Fund or to
sponsor him in the Popcorn Park Wildlife Club.

' . 'BBANDONED MOTHER REFUSES
TO LEAVE PUPS

SEE PHOTO PAGE 1

 

 

One of the pups looks up hopefully from the‘8’ pit.

She had been someone's loving & devoted pet — but they didn’t return
her kindness. They were irresponsible, cruel & uncaring. When this lovable
lady had her pups, they were looking for an easy way out. One night, they
dumped her in the yard of a Newark apartment house. At the very rear
of the yard was a sheer 8’ drop into a large pit. We-don’t know if the pup-
pies wandered back there or if the mother, searching for a safe den for
her puppies, dropped them in the dark hole, not realizing how deep it
was. Residents of the house saw the dog sitting faithfully by the pit for
the entire day. When the residents continued to see the dog there on the
follOwing day, they investigated further to find the 2 pups miraculously
still alive & uninjured. The Society was called for assistance & an am-
bulance was immediately dispatched to the scene. A 12’ extended dog
pole was used to get each of the pups & the entire family was brought
back to the Newark facility. Within. a short time, both pups were adopted
but Mom is still here. She’s a very loving & faithful dog with a sweet per-
sonality. File 155075 (Newark).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Special Christmas Edition I

AROUNDM
THE WORLD ,.

A

 

FRANCE

The RSPCA presented evidence
to the Secretary of the Minister
of Agriculture from observers on
livestock lorries carrying calves
through France on 19 separate
occasions since late 1981.
Observers recorded journeys of
between 13 & 28 hours although
French national regulations
stipulate a maximum of 12 hours
without feeding or watering.

ENGLAND '

The British Veterinary Associ-
tion has endorsed a paper by its
Animal Welfare Committee
regarding killing vs. stunning of
livestock & poultry. They en-
dorse rendering the animal per-
manently insensible to
mechanical stunning & killing at
the same time. Bleeding out
does not depend upon the heart
continuing to beat after insen-
sibility. The BVA believes there
is sufficient evidence to. recom-
mend that animals for slaughter
be rendered permanently insen-
sible & killed by inducing car-
diac arrest.

ENGLAND .

The Royal SPCA has decided to
phase out the controversial Huelec
cabinet which kills unwanted
animals by eleCtrocution. Although
there are still a few cabinets in
operation, they are changing over to
intravenous injection.

CANADA

According to the Assoc. for the Pro-
tection of Fur Bearing Animals, a
BC. Conservation Officer is under
investigation for setting illegal
leghold traps. The Conservation Of-
ficer caught a young dog instead of
a coyote that a sheep farmer wanted

. to trap. Two traps were set 10’ from

an obvious pathway used by
children. There are certain re-
quirements to the use of leghold
traps, i.e., the jaws must be padd-
ed or their must be a 3/16" to 7/32”
space between the jaws when they
are closed. The traps he used did
not comply with their own
regulations.

AUSTRIA

The World Wildlife Fund is suing
authorities in an attempt to pre-
vent construction of a
hydroelectric plant on the
Danube River on the basis that
Austrian ecologists advised that
the project would destroy one of
Europe’s largest nature
reserves.

 

THERE’S NO SUCH THING AS A
TENDER TRAP

 

NEWS FROM
NEWYORK

SUFFOLK COUNTY

 

Legislation introduced by Patrick .:.

Heany & co-sponsored by Gregory
Blass & Michael D’Andrea sets stan-
dards for feeding, housing & medical
treatment of animals housed in
private shelters was approved by the
County Legislature. This was promp-
ted after Heany saw animal car-
casses dumped at the Southampton
land fill, reportedly from the Hamp-
ton Animal Shelter. Under the bill,
private shelter owners must pur-
chase a $100 annual license & must
meet specific criteria before license
issuance. Structures must ensure
comfort & well being of animals,
shelters must provide isolation areas
for animals with suspected diseases,
animals must be properly fed,
watered & sheltered, animals must
be inoculated & must be given iden-
tification numbers & records must be
kept for at least 3 years on each
animal‘s disposition, dead animals
must be immediately removed &
disposed .of, animals must be remov-
ed during disinfection procedure &
euthanasia must be performed by a
vet or licensed individual & only
when animal is determined to be ter—
minally ill.

NEW YORK CITY

Assembly Bill 2756 bans the sale
of dogs & cats in any pet shop,
pet supply house or other
similar business & provides for
penalties of up to $1,000 &/or im-
prisonment for 1 year. It is cur-
rently in the Assembly‘s Com-
mittee on Agriculture.

NEW YORK STATE

Assembly Bill 2047 (Grannis) would
prohibit a school principal, ad-
ministrator or teacher from allowing
any live vertebrate animal to be us-
ed in any elementary or secondary
school under state control or sup-
ported by state or for any activity
associated with or sponsored by
such school as part of experiment
or for any other purpose, except for
observation of normal living patterns
of wild animals in free living state or
in zoological parks, gardens or
aquaria, or observation of normal liv-
ing patterns of pet fish or domestic
animals; requires that live animals
on premises thereof be housed &
cared for in humane & safe manner.

THE SOCIETY IS MAKING UP
A NEW LIST OF LOW-COST
SPAY & NEUTER CLINICS
THROUGHOUT THE U.S. IF
YOU OWN OR IF YOU KNOW
OF ,ONE IN YOUR AREA,
PLEASE SEND THE INFORMA-
TION TO R. Trezza, c/o Socie-
ty, P.O. Box AF, Keyport, N.J.
07735. Thank you. '

.-_‘anr\__ir—rnn-=v\r\ﬁ<QZ.Z—4'Om—lc—

4—-.—

 

    

‘

4A A. t




sud—«\A

 

‘ Special Christmas Edition

~

\\‘

,l

l
' I

I

‘N EWS'FROM
NEW JERSEY

 

JERSEY CITY '

The Hudson City County SPCA fired
2 shelter employees for poor work
performance & very bad attitudes.
The State Dept. of Health had cited
the SPCA for overcrowded condi-
tions & for keeping uncompatible
dogs in the same pen. A follow-up
visit by the State have shown the
problems to be corrected.

GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP
Atlantic City Policeman Charles
Murphy who is a township resi-
dent allegedly shot to death
Sassy, a 14 yr. old Yellow
Labrador Retriever owned by
Thomas Cohen wno was on her
own property. According to the
SPCA the dog was at least 4’
from Murphy & was shot in the
side of the neck. Although Mur-
phy advised that the dog tried to
attack him, the 14 yr. old dog
had barely any teeth & had ar-
thritis in her back legs.

ASBURY PARK

Joseph Bell was charged with
animal cruelty. He allegedly kept 3
dogs outside & had only» 2 shelters.
When Police arrived as the result of
a neighbor’s complaint, one dog was
dead in the yard & the other 2 were
eating it.

SOMERVILLE

Mayor Emanuel Luftglass advises
that the Council is considering an or-
dinance which would penalize a pet
owner if a dog barked continuously
for 10 minutes or intermittently for
30 minutes. Owners of other animals
including birds & cats would also be
subject to stiff penalities.

BRIGANTINE

The Atlantic County SPCA is of-
fering a $600 reward for any in-
formation leading to the arrest &
conviction of the person .who
deliberately drowned a small
light brown mother dog & her
light brown' female pup. Both
dogs had weights attached to
ropes around their neck.

CLINTON TOWNSHIP

No. Hunterdon Municipal Court
Judge J. Douglass Orr- found no pro-
of that Roger Hinchman failed to
provide proper vet care for his sheep
&_ cows. The judge previously
dismissed 6 charges alleging that
Hinchman didn’t provide adequate
food & shelter for his stock. This was
after the Hunterdon County SPCA
found 28 dead animals on Hin-
chman’s farm including 3 pregnant
mules, 6 lambs, 12 calves, 2 preg-
nant cows, 4 mules & a heifer. Hin-
chman claims the animals died due
to a severe weather.

FELINE ouo
NEEDS HOME

 

 

Tiger & Felicia are long-time

residents of the Society -- but ‘

they lead a very lonely life.
Felicia came to the Society in
1977 after she was found in
Freehold caught in a leghold
trap. Tiger came to the Society
in 1978 after her Owner passed
away. Both of these cats were
tested for Feline Leukemia when
they arrived & both have been
shown to be positive. Although
they are not suffering from the
disease, they would present a
high risk to healthy cats & for
this reason, they cannot be kept
in Kitty City. A vaccination to
prevent leukemia is soon to be
released. Although we would
caution anyone in a multiple cat
house hold from adopting Tiger
& Felicia, they are available to
cat lovers Who either have no
other cats or who have cats
which have already been tested
as “positive.” File M‘-15291 &
89822 (Forked River).

 

Socrety Begs
For Donations
Even though the first thing that
may come to mind is pet food,
the Humane Society needs
many types of items. Below is a
partial listing. The Society DOES
NOT send out receipts except
upon request with an accompa-
nying self-addressed stamped
envelope. Any assistance you
can give would be greatly ap-

preciated.

Clorox Purina Weight Circles
Tyepwrlters Grooming Clippers
S & H Trading Stamps Towels

Sunﬂower Seed Blankets

Fruits Kitty Litter
Vegetables Cameras

Office Supplies Cages

Cottage Cheese Pet Carriers
Puppy Chow Chest Freezers
Red Scissor Coupons Canned Fruits - _
Cigarette Coupons 5 Washing Machines
Cat Food” Bird Houses

Dog Food Dog Houses

Nuts Can Openers
Eggs Paint

Leashes Tools

Baby Food

- Dear Santa: Me & my kids are ready to leave. Please cOme pick us

Humane News December 1984 9

WAITING PATIENTLY FOR CHRISTMAS

 

up on Christmas Eve! My pups are so cute, I know they’ll do fine.
But a home for me may take some more time. So pick up your list
& check it over twice. Someone must want a dog who’s obedient,
housebroken & nice. File M-42035 (Tinton Falls).

 

 

A HUNTER FINDS HIS TARGET

 

Red was a 1.0 year, old neutered male who was owned by a Howell
Township resident. He became the target for a hunter in the Farm-
ingdale/Howell area. The Society picked up the injured lrish Setter &
brought him to our Newark Animal Care Center. Due to the extent of the
injuries, his owner had him euthanized for humanitarian-reasons. in the
past 2 days, the Society has received 3 dogs, all of which had been shot
to death in the Farmingdale/Howell area. The Society has received reports
from other areas where animals have been either killed or injured by

~ hunters. We urge all pet owners to keep their animals under their contro

at all times. '

 

{ wno WILL can: Eon ME?

What would happen to your pet in the event you are hospitalized or pass
on. In many instances, individuals have made arrangements with relatives
to take their pets only to have the relatives bring the beloved pet to a
veterinarian to be euthanized. Unless you specifically request in your Will
that the money is to be designated for the care of that animal, your pet
may be put to sleep. If you would like to make special provisions in a Will
or insurance policy for your pets & would like additional information, please

send $1 to the Society, PO. Box AF, Keyport, NJ 07735 requesting copy.

of. “WHO WILL CARE FOR ME.” Decals and wallet cards are available

, for $1.50 per set.

 




 

 

 

 

 

7‘. _ .........

10 Humane News December 1984 '

“KITTY CORNER '

This is a small sampling of the hundreds of beautiful cats available at
the Society’s Animal Care Centers. If you have room in your heart & your
home to provide a purrrmanent place for one of our supurrrb pussycats,
it is our hope that we can purrrsuade you to adOpt one of these moewvelous
felines. Many of our cats are spayed & neutered. ThOSe not old enough
are furnished with a low-cost spay & neuter certificate. All of the kittens
& cats (as well as puppies & dogs) are furnished with a 30 day free medical

 

 

The senior citizen had little else
in the world. Except Mimi, her 1
year old little girl. Because of
“no pets” ruling, the two have
been parted. Now a senior

citizen & her pet are both
broke‘nhearted. File 154919
(Newark).

 

Dear Santa: An older person who
doesn’t go out much anymore is
the kind of owner I would adore.
Niether of us would be alone or
blue and we’d both have some-
one to love & talk to. File M-42452.

.(Tinton Falls).

&§ ‘3». g: = ,3 .:

I came in as a young lad & I’m
growing into quite a big guy. No
.one wants me, I wonder why.
Could it be because I have only
one eye? I wish they would realize
. that lovin’ me would be as easy as
pie. File 153664 (Newark).

 

guarantee & lifetime replacement.

 

think nothing was wrong. Her head must have received a very. bad
blow. And that was the cause of her tale of woe. It damaged her
equilibrium is what we‘ve estimated. Now she walks just like she‘s
inebriated. If you don’t mind a cat on a New Year’s Eve high, why
don’t you give our “Weebles” a try. File 153993 (Newark).

My owner no longer wanted me
’cause I was having kittens. Now
I’m homeless & I don’t think
that’s fittin’. A simple operation
& l was aborted. No political or
religious issues please — I’m
just ready to be courted. File
150955,-(Newark).

 

Pet owners must be warned of the
highly toxic effects of anti-freeze.
The sweet taste & pleasant aroma
make it attractive to animals —— and
small children. Even if a small
amount is ingested, it can cause
severe kidney damage or death.
Please be sure to keepanti-freeze
in closed containers.

 

 

My name is Rose — just like the
last rose of summer.
homeless is a real bummer. I’m a
bob-tail cutie waiting for someone
to whom I can cling. Just imagine
all the love & laughter that I could
bring. File 153521 (Newark).

Being '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 
  

& already spayed. A gentle lov-
ing purrrsonality puts her at the
top of our pussycat parade. File
0-25640 (Forked River).

 

Dear Santa: ‘Twas the night
before Christmas & all thru the
house, creatures are stirring,
maybe even a mouse! They’ll eat
your cookies & chew holes in your
hat. But not if you have a
Christmas cat! File M-42433 (Tin-
ton Falls)

 

 

the warmth to your holidays. If
you bring me to your home, I can
think of a few ways. We can cud-
dle on the sofa & watch the glit-
tering tree. Just think -- the spirit
of Christmas celebrated by you
and me. File 154737 (Newark).

  

Here is beautiful Misty, 2 yrs.rold‘

  
   

Are you wondering what will add '

 

 

It!)

 




 

 

 

”Hi-3“

 

 

 

Special Christmas Edition

 

The SAV-A-LIFE warning device, which is easily mounted on
vehicles, emits an ultra sonic sound to warn animals of the ap-
proaching vehicle. The device is smaller than a cigarette lighter, ac-
tivates at 30 mph. & projects to a distance of 4 football fields. It
mounts on the front of the vehicle with adhesive backing. Only
$24. 95 with a 30 day money- -back guarantee. The purchase of this
device brings with it a year’s subscription to the magazine publish-
ed by the World Society for Protection of Animals.

 

The attractive PET-SAC would make a special gift for your dog, cat
or your pet-owning friends. The PET-SAC can be used as a sleeping
bag (just zip it up) & your pet can go inside & keep warm & cozy. Open
the zipper & it doubles in size so that it can be used on your bed,
furniture or car‘upholstery. Machine washable & dryable.
Model #50001 - 30” x 16” (opens to 30” x 32”)

$13.95
$16.95

Model #50002 - 30” x 24” (opens to 30” x 48”)

I ITEM# QUANTITY PRICE

TOTAL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

N. J. RESIDENTS ONLY ADD 5% SALES TAX
SHIPPING CHARGE: UN 2, C;

 

TOTAL
Please Allow 5 Weeks For Delivery

'Name_

 

Street Address ~

 

City, State & Zip _-w _
Phone No.

 

 

Make Checks payable to:
Associated Humane Societies
124 Evergreen Ave., Newark, N.J. 07114

 

 
 

Humane News December 1984 11

GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS FOR PETS 8: PEOPLE

 

 

 

 

_. .,.
‘ f

 

 

 

 

 

These are just some of the beautiful animals portrayed in pen & ink
by noted artist Bill Shurtliff as they appear on the 1985 Animal Friends
Calendar. This beautiful calendar is 11” x 17” when opened & hang-
ing on the wall. Each month features a different animal friend & has
generous space for making notes. It is printed on handsome
heavyweight ivory paper & comes with a 9” x 12” envelope for mail-
ing. Perfect as a lovely gift for friends or ideal for you to keep animals
in your eVeryday life. There is a limited supply so it is first come, first
served. Only $4. 95. Use coupon on Page 11.
~ We

 

 

. animals. The best way is to start of

Start youngsters early on
becoming aquainted with ABOVE: Special one-time offer
Beauty Without Cruelty
Avocado Lotion 8: soap in gift
box. Cruelty-free cosmetics
available at this one-time only

low price of $11.95.

with stuffed animals. And
“Charlie Chipmunk” will help
you. The attractive animal is
$7. 50-

 

Lots of attractive pet accessories are available' In our catalog. Vir-
tually unbreakable plastic cat bowl with brown decal on natural is
$3. 50. The clear plastic container with brown decal & seal- -tight tap
are $4. 95 for the 32 02. “My Treats” cat & dog containers 8: $6.50 for
the 72 oz. Dog Biscuit Container




 

 

_.
t1, ’
.4 .

God must love Dobermans -— he
made so many of ’em. The pro-
blem is there aren’t enough peo-
ple who will love ’em. He would
be your guardian — lay down his
life for you. Do you want to meet
a handsome redhead who is ex-
tremely blue. File 154963.

sou. rERmeR

kindness are spoken. You see, my
lonely heart has been broken.
Owning me means loving & shar-
ing. I’d like to be your one & only
so I can get all your caring. File
155219.

 

 

 

m.“

lair V’rl‘

 

Probably abused, no doubt misus-
ed, but with a personality that is
so sweet. Here’s a lady with a
lonely heart waiting for that
special someone she can meet.

How could you refuse her need-

when you see how sad she looks.
“Happily ever after” doesn’t on-
ly happen in fairy tale books. File
154359.

7; :" ‘ ,3 1' . ' 9-1; . ,' :'
:1 git“ I :1 lj'l'"; i , it 1 ‘ 3
" . ‘ .1 .3? 5 ‘. l; :‘ -

 

“Bows” came in as a young
hopeful pup. As yOu can see,
she’s all grown up. She was pic-
tured in June due to rickets that
were severe. The problem has
cleared up & she is quite a dear.
File 153128.

 

211-177 , 3 ,
, ’ 1‘, 0:5, v‘ .
\-74 ‘VHJ‘l : ~ .1 -", -;:" 7N" ‘
. 3’57. , ' L . n 5 . A 71-;
1:1,! \ ‘ -' . ,' . ' . I ‘I ,' ‘ r‘ (ff: . -.‘I ::.'.’-“ an'l' h‘V-‘xt'
-. . ‘3“ ‘; , 2:, ‘
( , _ y _ ; _

PORSCHE,“

w’,’ “-1.! u;

 

For their apartment, they said
Porsche was too huge. That may
have been subterfuge. If you
want a sleek model that’s only
10 months old, you don’t need a
Fiat . . . this Porsche has a heart
of gold. File 155118. ~

serum or

 

Sandy’s a real sweetheart where
adults are concerned. But not
around children or there’ll be a
sad lesson to be learned. We
much prefer that she go where the
furniture’s nailed to the ground.
‘Cause when she’s alone, Sandy
tends to move the furniture
around. File 154644.

 

 

IF "I; 1'1? an we n m n
5.3. i.‘ ‘L i .6 u. t“
.: .i 1‘; r. it gig p, h .
rad 21....” ga‘ '1 ._ ‘.‘x. r x m
.j m 535' .

       

- LOWE

 

 

 

A cute little snowball just sits & .
pines. Only love & affection will L
make his eyes shine. He’s a real
cute angel who’d look great .
’neath your tree. He’ll show you
how to fill your holidays with love

& glee. File 154966.

Taxman

 

 

What were you expecting from
Santa . another bottle of col-
bgne? How would you like a real
sweet lass who doesn’t want to be
alone? Give her a chance to find
a space in your heart. We know
you would never want to part. File
154476.

.. 124 Evergreen A,

Adaption Center Open Daily -- Noon-8 p.m., Weekends, Noon-




Humane News December 1984 13

 

 

., .::_H II‘ I}: .‘f‘ rarity, TF3?-
. ’13”) Yr. .5

'nJ {in :9:

 

Are you looking for a great fami-
ly pet? Stop searching ’cause
, Randi would be your best bet.
l She does everything you tell her
l & with kids she is terrific. When
can you meet the 1 V2 yr. old lady
— won’t you be specific? File
154410.

h, ., , -‘ - -», '.. .‘ x , \
.Y E m i f_ t‘ p '_ -. ‘ “.1;
A . ' . .-" - 1 ‘7 5' .{i ‘1,“ 'i‘. h ' Ii.“
. . J 3 ‘1“, 1'1‘ L525" _ s\. '1 .‘

 

Did Santa bring the gift you
wanted??? A camera, a bike, a
microwave oven?? We have lots
of “gifties” here waiting for a

chance at lovin’. No batteries
needed, no worry about wrong
sizes. This one-eyed sad sack is
just one of our precious prizes.
File 155072.

IAve., Near Newark International Airport
365 Days a Year Phone

N°°ll‘6 pan.

 

1' HE HOMELESS STRBYS

mtg, ECU} EM
SWEETHEBRT

 

We don’t want to pontificate. But
here’s a dog we think is just great.

Small & sweet & not at all spoiled. ,

Her generously loving ways would
make her very loyal File 154595.

PE PPY or
aw. % ‘7‘“

 

 

After 8 years as a family pet, Pep-
py was given up. It’s hard to find
a 'home for dogs -- even when
they’re as young as a pup. But 8
years old is downright hard --

almost unachievable. But he
would be devoted -- & that is tru-
ly believable. File. 154979.

W EEE. .: .3
FOX TERRlER

lf Skip lived on a military base,
he’d be called an Army brat. He
doesn’t like children & he can’t
stand cats. He’s a very nice
chap who wants to be the center
of your attention. Give the fella
your undivided love & he’ll repay
you with lots of affection. File
154602.

_ ﬁéf f” ﬂfki. ﬁgs;

SPITZ

 

If we had to choose only one dog
that needed a home so badly, we
onld opt for this real sweet Spitz
who is ready to accept love so
gladly. So if you’re tenderhearted
& want a dog that’s yearning to
belong, please consider Sissy —
we know you won’t go wrong. File
154819.

(201) 324-7030

 

 

 

ﬁéug. "i ﬁgﬁmw {mm
oamarmu

The people at the Society crown-
ed me “Miss Congeniality"

That’s because I have a kind
nature 8. the sweetest personali-
ty. But no one can find a spot in
their heart when you’re 8 years
old. Even if you’re a Dalmatian
with a heart of gold. File 155123.

SHELDON OF
EEE‘ZW EEEEREE QETV

 

Angels l have heard on high, but ‘ ~
not a word from Santa Claus. A ‘
kind lady brought me herein
when she saw my tired paws.
But that was months ago & I’m
still waiting to give my love.
Hey little man with the red suit
— are you listening up above?
File 131725.

..
iv.

.1

" 1:"

. l ‘5‘

R! g AA

_\\




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14 Humane News December 1984
INHUMANE STICK-EM MOUSE TRAPS

 

COURTESY: HAWAIIAN HUM NE SOCIETY

_ One of the newest inventions on the market are the stick- -em type glue
traps for mouse, rats & other unwanted animals. This mouse was brought
to the Hawaiian Humane Society where it was euthanized. In the past
few months, the'Society has received telephone calls from anguished peo-
ple who didn’t realize the cruelty involved when purchasing these traps.
A tearful Elizabeth resident advised that he had already flushed it down
the toilet bowl but please advise'others. We also received an anonymous
call from a supermarket employee in Teaneck who advised that several
of these had been placed, in the store one night. When he entered the
store in the morning, he could hear the squeals of the many mice who
were entrapped Many of them die a slow, lingering, painful death from

starvation.

ARTISTS NEEDED

The supply of Humane Societies
Coloring Book is almost depleted.
The Society will be producing a
brand new coloring book with new
and up-to-date messages of animal
kindness to enlighten youngsters. If
you can draw fairly well, very well or
even if yOu are a genius, you are in-
vited to send your drawings, suitable
for coloring, for use in this book. We
will be happy to give proper credits
to all contributors. All contributions
should be sent to: New Coloring
Book, c/o Society, PO. Box AF,
- Keyport, NJ 07735. The subject
matter can be either domestic
animals or wildlife.

HELP US WIN AN nxm

new ON THE
MARKET

Techamerica, PO. Box 338,
Elwood, Kansas 66024, the com-
pany that developed the first highly
successful parvo vaccine has
perfected a new ELISA type
diagnostic test kit for feline
leukemia. It is the fastest, most ac-
curate test on the market today & so
sensitive that it is capable of pick-
ing up the virus in its earliest stages.

 

BUY COSMETICS NOT TESTED
ON ANIMALS

$1,000 . . . PLEASE.

Our fund-raismg program With the Games" dog food people is now in high gear.

Between now and December 31 1984. (Barnes gives us double-value
redemption for their starred * price markers If we can turn in 1.000 price markers
by Dec. 31. we get $200. If we can turn in 5.000. we get $1.500!

In addition. Gaines will award 850000 in prizes to the 50 shelters that redeem
the most. So that can mean an extra $1000 for our prOjects.

So please keep saVing those price. markerst. Get your friends to help. And

please get them to us before December 31

I TWe can cash in starred price markers from

. All Gaines Cycle“ brands (dry only) '

these products; Gaines Gravy Train"

Gaines-burgers“ . Gaines Puppy Choice“

. Gaines Top ChOice“ . Prime Variety“ . and Games” lvleal

 

 

Special Christmas Edition .

FEDERAL
LEGISLATION

President Ronald Reagan signed in-
to law the California Wilderness Act
on Sept. 28, 1984. According to
some area residents, this bill paves
the way for hundreds of develop-
ment projects, massive road
building, jeep trails, mining & water
development projects. Regional
Forester Zane Smith has been tour-
ing the forests with representatives
of the timber industry & has ordered
forest supervisors to get more timber
sales for industries at a cost it can
afford.

3.540 sponsored by Orrin Hatch
(UT) & John dingell (MI) is the
House-Senate conference version of
Authoriation for National Institutes of
Health. It contains Walgren provi-
sions to promote alternatives & re-
quires outside person on animal
research committees. Pres. Reagan
vetoed the bill on Oct. 30, 1984.

H.R.2122 sponsored by Bill Emer-
son (MO) which would permit trap-
ping in the Ozark National Scenic
Riverways was defeated in a House
floor vote on Oct. 4.

NJ. LEGISLATION

Senate Bill 1030 (Jackman, Cowan),
which would permit certain tenants
to keep domesticated animals in
residential rental premises under
certain conditions, is still in the
Senate’s Judiciary Committee.
Please write. to Senator John A.
Lynch, Chairman of the Committee
requesting favorable release of this
legislation.

 

Senate Bill 2147 (Bassano) prohibits
the importation of certain wildlife into
the State for hunting; establishes
penalties for violations. It is in the
Senate’s Natural Resources &
Agriculture Committee — Chairman
is Senator Raymond Zane.

Assembly Bill 2223 (Meyer,
Haytaian, Gallo, Palaia, Muziani,
Loveys, Kline, Haines, Chinnici, Foy,
Pankok) would prohibit the issuing
of fishing or hunting licenses to per-
sons who fail to respond to a sum-
‘mons or to pay any fines they incur-
red for violating fish & game laws.
It is in the Assembly’s Agriculture &
Environment Committee.

Assembly Bill 94 (Mazur, Naples,

WatSon, McEnroe,‘B’aer, Ogden)
would require land purchased by
State for endangered & non-
game species or wildlife ~ &
passive recreation be used ON;
_ LY for that purpose; Please write
,to your Assemblymen to give
favorable support to the bill.

‘—

ou THE.

NATIONAL SCENE. ' .

i I
Friends of Animals has charged
the National Wildlife Federation ‘ "

with distributing misleading &

deceptive fund raising materials

& has requested i'ntervention by
the Federal Trade Commission
& the Attorney General in each
state. FoA accused the N.W.F.
of failing to inform the public in
its appeals that the organization
is an umbrella group for some
8,000 local hunting & trapping
clubs. Donations are sent to pro:
tect wildlife when in reality, it is
used to promote hunting & kill-
ing. Further the National
Wildlife Federation supports the
US. Government’s massacre of
seals in the Pacific. Lynn Green-
walt, Vice President of the Na
tional Wildlife Federation
denied the charges. Greenwalt
stated: “I don’t think we have
ever portrayed ourselves as
anything but what we are — a
federation of some 50 state

organizations who hunt, fish,
trap & take pictures.”
According to ANIMALS

Magazine, the US. Senate ap-
proved a 1985 Air Force ap-
propriations request for $1.5
million to build a lab at Brooks
Air Force Base for testing “Star
Wars" weapons on monkeys &
other animals. The animals at
the propoed lab will be exposed
to high energy lasers,
microwaves which will cause un-
necessary suffering to animals.
Donald Barnes, former Brooks
Air Force Base researcher,,now
with the National Anti-
Vivisection Society, stated that
in the past 25 years, similar
tests had been performed at
Brooks with no findings ap-
plicable to humans.
stated that if they followed past
practices, the tests would be
done without anaesthesia to see
how such weapons would affect
pilot performance. Letters can
be sent to Hon. Mack Mattingly,
US. Senate, Committee on Ap-
propriations, Washington, DC.
20510.

The National Science Foundation
has awarded $88,562.00 grant to Dr.
Andrew Rowan, Jerrold Tannen-
baum & Franklin M. Loew, all of

Tufts University School of Veterinary '

Medicine to undertake a study on
the ethics of animal research. Loew
is Dean of Tufts University School
of Vet. Medicine, Rowan is Asst.
Dean & author of “OF MICE,

MODELS & MEN” & Tannenbaum
is a moral philosopher & attorney. 1

Barnes -

 

 

 

 




uHWﬁUDU'TYYU)‘ «(Di-UUJGDI—o-D’TT'

I u

(U):

 

 

 

"Special Christmas Edition

 

x ‘fprsum TREAT M‘E‘LIIIE'K IE7;

LLLLLI! IILLISL‘LL' I. EUL’L'LI' LLLE‘L' ULSL'ILL-IILIL‘E

 

If You Love Your Pet A Lot:

Obeyle In In. :dltc

Prcolerou eh: Inn-:Ithten
nuece Iryv cln

Spayo uIE ccIo he zip": oamb Ilhe p I
po on all Ilo eIIIpIo

II community \OVVKF muugv ll nlnuqnl Io y'lu rm norm" 0' all .N'me‘l‘ n.

ASSOCIATED HUMANE SOCIETIES, INC.

Newark Tinlon Fells ForIed River Brooklyn

W— v—v—v

 

V'VV

As a community service message,
the Society has available this
poster as a gentle reminder to all
pet owners to love’em, license ‘em
and leash “em. They can be
posted on bulletin boards, in
supermarkets, at civic halls,
laudromats, your office—and even
in the mailbox of that thoughtless
neighbor whose dog is always run-
ning loose. A quantity of them will
be sent to you at the cost of $1 to
cover postage and handling. Just
send $1 to “PEOPLE TREAT ME
LIKE A DOG,“ c/o Society, PO.
Box AF, Keyport, N.J. 07735 & a
quantity will be sent to you.

 

 

ADVERTISING RATES
$4,400 Full Page
$2,500 Half Page
$1,500 Quarter Page
$900 Eighth Page
$500 Sixteenth Page
Classified Ads $3.00/Line
Lost Ads: .. $2.00/Line
Circulation: 130,000 monthly '

Federal & state wildlife officials have
arrested 30 people in 14 states for
illegally capturing & selling en-
dangered peregrine falcons & other
protected birds of prey. According to
the International Wildlife Magazine,
they believe that this was encourag-

ed by an Interior Department regula— I .
'tion change permitting the sale of

captive bred raptors. During the 3
year under cover investigation,
federal agents found that some birds
8. eggs sold were'labeled as having

'been bred in captivity when in fact

they were wild. Many of those ar-
rested were prominent leaders of
state & national falconry associa-
tions. Half of the captured birds had
died during handling & trading. The
US. Fish & Wildlife Service should
immediately ban all commercial
trade in birds of prey. Congress

fit \

I “In \. \‘j\.
I \ \:\\

  

Humane News December 1984 15

- FALCONRY LEADERS
IN BIRDS OF PREV SCAM

\\\

 

should amend the Endangered
Species Act to give endangered rap-
tors the same protection as other
rare species receive.

 

There are many people who will
start lighting up their fireplaces to
enjoy those comforting flames.
They can be a menace to pets so
be sure that you have a fireplace
cover. Also, it may be quite likely
that you have a family of raccoons
who have taken up nesting in
there. Soto avoid injury & death,
please be sure before lighting that
match.

 

 

 

 

 

LITTER BAGS
FOR SALE

 

' DON’T
LITTER

 

ASSOCIATED HUMANE SOCIETIES

0 '20!) 2.15060
0 i2OII I922 0700
O l609l sq] I900

12‘ Evergreen Avenue 0 Nev-ark NJ
29kg“... Rd . Tm... $.11. NJ
Humane Way O Fovhed Rmer NJ

 

 

 

'“DON’T LITTER - SPAY" litter
bags available at 3 bags for $1.
Use coupon on Page IL

zone.

Wills 8: Bequests

P. 0. Box AF
Keynort. N. J. 02135

YOUR WILL IS NOT
a LITTLE THING...
IT’S EUERTHING!
Did you remember to include your relatives.
You pets are relatives too! a bequest in your

Will or a Life Insurance Policy can ensure lite-
eivine support to your pets lone after you are

voUn PETs'DesenvE To BE
INCLUDED IN YOUR WILL! .

c/o Associated Humane Societies

Please send me a copy of your booklet on Wills 8: Bequests without
any oblieatlon. I am encloslne herewith a self— addressed stamped
envelope or $1. 00 for postaee 8: handline.

 

Address:

 

City. State 8: ZIP

 

 

 

 

CLASSIFIED

ADS

WE PAY CASH FOR SIMPLE

 

.‘ HOME REMEDIES 8: HOUSEHOLD

HINTS (ALL SUBJECTS). WRITE:
REMEDIES/HINTS, H-AND-H
PUBLISHERS, PO. BOX 1656,
ASHEBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
27204.

 

 

This lovely 16” x 20” full color art
reproduction of The Humane
Jesus surrounded b woodland
creatures. Suitable or framing.
Send $5 to The Edenite Society,
Dept. HN, P.O. Box 115, Im-
laystown, N.J. 08526.

 

A PERFECT HOLIDAY GIFT FOR
voun PET-OWNING FRIENDS

Beautiful animal portraits done
from photos or slides. Capture
your pets unique character 8:
enhance your decor. Allow 3-5
weeks for delivery. Money back
guarantee if not satisfied. Send for '
brochure:

Nancy Ross Pet Portraits
1559 82nd Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. .11228

, (212) 331-9523

 

It you have a product,'a service,
a lost or found, etc., that you

’ would like to convey to our

readers, this space is- available to
you. The cost is $3 per line,
minimum 3 line ad. '

 

’ Although the Gaines Shelter Cash-

In Plan runs thru March 313:,
1985, animal shelters can collect
an extra $50,000 in prize money
by sending as many as possible
by the end of the promotional
period on Dec. 313t.

  

  
     
  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 9.- su-WV- “9*.” _- ... ...._.......r. -.,.~......,..> .M» 4. may--.” . NA...» ._..

\

' 16 Humane News December 1984

Special Christmas Edition-1.13:, ;

LETTERS T 0 THE EDITOR

WHISPER THE DEER- VICTIM .OF A COURT BATTLE

The followmg are just a few of the many letters sent by animal welfare
organizations to Gov. Thomas Kean, State House, Trenton, N.J. 08625
regarding the plight of Whisper the deer.

We are appalled at the continued harassment of the Associated
Humane Societies by the N. J. Division of Fish, Game & Wildlife. We
are quite familiar with Popcorn Park facilities & believe them to be

more than suitable in which to allow Whisper the deer to live out '

her life. As long as AHS maintains a valid permit to take care of
‘wildlife, which it does, & Popcorn Park is properly maintained,
which it is, we cannot understand the Division’s relentless persecu-
tion. On behalf of our 12,000 New Jersey members, we ask you to
intervene to stop the Division from wasting precious time & money
pursuing this absurd case. Whisper is fine right. where‘she is.

R. C. Kenly- N. J. Coordinator- Fund for Animals, Inc. - Fair Lawn,
New Jersey

Regarding the case of “Whisper” the deer at Popcorn Park, I cer-
.tainly think a special exception can & should be made for it so that
it can remain where it is. It is certainly not endangering other
animals or the protective laws of the Division of Fish, Game &
Wildlife, which should remain the same. This is a special case, not
like individuals who bring in exotic or ill animals. The Fish & Game
people are becoming increasingly hostile towards the humane
organizations all over the country & I feel this is a vendetta rather
than something based on reason. It has nil to do with protecting
the state, but I feel, the actions of the Division against the Societies
are based on a desire to hurt the humane organization for its own
reasons not connected with “Whisper.”

Mildred G. Lucas, President- Foundation for Animal Protection-
Brookfield Center, Connecticut.

, We are writing to you regarding the matter of “Whisper" the doe
found in Wisconsin which was taken to Popcorn Park Zoo in Fork-
ed River, N.J. by officials of the Associated Humane Societies. We
feel a lot of fuss is being made over an isolated case of
humanitarians. I am very much impressed with any humane
organization willing to go to such lengths to save the life of one

creature & we think Whisper should be allowed to live out her life at ,

Popcorn Park Zoo. Any change at this point will surely cause the
animal to suffer. As you must know, thousands of deer die of star-
vation or are left to die in agony by hunters here in Wisconsin every
year. As man kills their natural predators, over-population becomes
more & more of a problem. How can the Dept. of Environmental
Protection in your state be so inhumane as to blow this situation
clearly out of proportion? We urge you to put a stop to the Div. of
Fish, Game & Wildlife’s harassment of Associated Humane
Societies & ask them to divert their attention to more important &
urgent matters than this obvious power play which is being done at
your taxpayers’ expense.

Roberta Waite, Pres. Wisconsin Animal Rights Advocates, Inc.
-Muskego, Wisconsin 53150

EDITOR’S NOTE: For the full story on Whisper, please see Page 2.
f‘FREE TO GOOD HOME” IS JUST A MYTH

People giving pets “Free to Good Homes” may unknowingly be sending
these unfortunate animals right into a laboratory for experimentation. Re-
cent inCidents nationwide show an alarming increase in the number of
.unscrupulous individuals posing as pet lovers responding to a “Free to
Good Home” ad. Upon receipt of the animal, these people deliver them
directly to a lab or animal lab dealer where they are paid for their work.
If you have unwanted animals, please call your lacal humane society for
guidelines In evaluating potential homes. Or arrange to bring them directly
‘ to an established animal shelter who does not haVe any affiliations with
laboratories. A reputable shelter will extensively screen all applicants
before allowing them to adOpt a pet. Of course, you can avoid this situa-
.. tion entirely by being a responSible owner & having your pets spayed or
neutered.

Pat Pandplfo - Jackson, New Jersey,

AN AFTERNOON TO BE REMEMBERED FOREVER.

On behalf of the patients & residents of the Jewish Hospital &
Rehabilitation Center of N.J., I would like to thank you once again
for not only bringing the adorable pets from the Associated

Humane Societies’ facility, but in doing so, for also bringing about

a joy & happiness not often experienced by the people who held &
pet them. It was truly a touching & heartwarming experience & an
afternoon which I’m sure will be remembered forever.

Charles F. Berkowitz, Executive Vice President - Jewish Hospital 8:
Rehabilitation Center of N.J. - Jersey City, New Jersey

A BIG “THANK YOU” TO FIREFIGHTERS!
The Nov. 21st edition of the CHICAGO SUN-TIMES featured an arti-

cle about the Chicago Firefighters from Engine Co. #99 who saved '

the life of a 3 yr. old girl trapped in a burning building. My uncle,
Bernie Schroeder, was one of these brave firefighters. The day
after assisting in saving the life of this 3 yr. old girl, my uncle sat in
my kitchen and related the story to me, first hand. While speaking
aboUt this particular fire, he also spoke of how he had saved the,
life of the family pet, a Chihuahua. I was deeply moved by the joy

my uncle felt at saving the life of this Chihuahua!. While listening. ‘
‘ to him speak of rescuing this animal,

I was reminded of the
numerous other times he had happily related stories to me of how
he had saved family pets, both cats & dogs. While major city
newspapers may not find these pet rescue stories to be newswor-
thy enough for printing, I think our firefighters deserve a big
THANK YOU from those of us who care about the well-being of
animals. I am writing to suggest or request that the HUMANE
NEWS print a small note of thanks to firefighters who risk their
lives to save human & animal lives. I personally am thankful to

~ firefighters like my uncle, Bernie Schroeder.

Susan Quattrochi-Tubin, Ph.D., T.R.S. - Chicago, Illinois
POOR ANIMAL WELFARE IN LOUSIANA

The situation in Shreveport, La. is deplorable with NO humane
society; the animal control facilities are very poor & treating
animals cruelly in disposing of them. This matter is being brought
to public attention in an effort to correct the situation. I live in an
area where persons come & abandon many animals to roam
streets hungry & to be hit by cars. So lam well aware of some of the
heartache & problems you are dealing with. Thank you for your ef-
forts on behalf of helpless & homeless animals.

Mrs. W. Faust- Shreveport, Louisiana

. NEWS FROM NORTH CAROLINA

I thought you would like to know that the Legislature of North
Carolina passed a law at the end of last session that now makes it
a misdemeanor‘to run over an animal & leave it in the highway. In
fact, it is a misdemeanor to abuse or hurt an animal in any fashion
in this state. Conviction is now punishable by a fine & being
sentenced to the state prison in Raleigh if found guilty. It took peo--
ple here like myself 3 years to get this done, but we did it. So North
Carolina is a state where abandonment, hurting, killing an animal
(domeStic) is against the law, stricter law also for hunting, fishing
out of season.

Scott Rigby- Hiddenite, North Carolina

LETTERS OF PROTEST NEEDED

I am writing to inform you of an ad for “exotic books” that I saw in the
new Spiegel’s Fall Catalog. l have already written to Spiegel protesting
.the sale of these boots. They are selling Antelope boots, Snakeskin boots,
Iguana Lizard boots, Ostrich boots, Elephant boots & Python boots. These
heartless people are making a lot of money off of (these animals).
Tina Santopoalo- Waukegan, Illinois ‘
EDITOR’ S NOTE: Letters of protest can be writen to Modie Spiegel,

President of the Spiegel Company, 175 E. Delaware Place, Chicago,
Illinois 60611.

No Letters Will Be Published In This Column Unless: Your Name

 

II<SZE©Z

 

zo—ICQ-I

'ﬂU

mmzr-nmsms—l




.':3

 

9 Special Christmas Edition

WE LOVE TO HEAR FROM SOCIETY ALUMNI

This is just to say thank you for featuring us in your article in the

Sept. issue of the HUMANE NEWS. Lady has blossomed from a
skittish, undernourished pup into a playful, outgoing, well-

' developed little girl since that picture of us was taken in May. It’s

amazing what love can do for an animal who has known rejection &
abandon. It’s too bad that some people can’t realize that it takes
love in order to receive love. Lady has adjusted just fine here in

' Maryland. She & “Chance” have become great pals. And she is a

great companion to both Ray & I. We wouldn’t trade her for the
world!!! In remembrance of all of your Other adoptees who have yet
to find new homes, we would like to send a contribution. I hope it

‘ will help in your efforts to care for all the little ones that have not

yet received the love & care that comes from a good home.
Ruthann & Ray Patsy - Gaithersburg, Maryland

This donation comes from a 78 year old woman handicapped by a
series of minor strokes. I only wish this donation could be more.
This comes in the name of Tiffy (Tiffany), the Maltese-mix who
came several years ago from your Evergreen Ave. shelter. She is
ruinously hopelessly spoiled . . . but a wonderful loving little com-
panion.

Frances F. Saxe - Roselle Park, New Jersev

The enclosed check is in memory of Paradise, my beloved cat & friend
who shared my life for 161/2 years, from the time I took him‘ in from the
street when he was just 4 weeks old. He was both mother & father to Hades
who I lost last year. Charlie, who I took from your Newark shelter 2 years
ago & Pandora (known as Camaro to you) who I took from your Forked
River shelter in March. Please continue your wonderful work. It was your
feature of homeless & handicapped that brought me Charlie. I can never
thank you enough for both Charlie & Pandora (a gentle Persian). The love
& happiness they give add a very special meaning to my life.
Barbara Zaback - Fort Lee, New Jersey

PEN PALS WELCOMED

I am 27, married, an avid animal lover, dog owner (of 3) and would like
to correspond with others similar to myself. Currently we live in Florida
but are look forward to living on Long Island after we sell our home.
Audrey Kerzner -, 11159 - 47th Road No., West Palm Beach, Florida
33411 .

I am a 20 year old college student who loves all animals. I love to write
& would enjoy hearing from anyone who cares about animals.

Mary Ann Sweeney - 6073 Colonial Drive - North Syracuse, New York
13212

Prisoner, 29, college graduate, non-violent, seeks visits and cor-
respondence. Enjoy all animals and sports.

Ronald Davidson - Elmira Prison #76-A-1166 - Elmira, New York -
14902-500

Would you please put me on your pen pal list. I am a 20 year old college
student. I have a cat named Fred & love all animals. l like to write & love
to get mail. I am looking forward to your letter.

Mary Ann SWeeney - 6073 Colonial Drive - North Syracuse, New York

13212

NICE LETTERS FROM SHARE-A-PET SPONSORS

I want to thank you for sending me the nice letter & picture of Rex
(the Share-A-Pet). My heart goes out to him for being so badly abus-
ed. I hope the owner will get his just due before he leaves this
world. I'm happy to know he’s at least getting the care, attention &
love he so sorely needs at this time by so many loving & caring peo-

ple.
Anne W. MacDougall - Keyport, New Jersey

Thank you for the pictures of my Share-A-Pets, Tramp & Bagel.
These pictures were the very best I’d ever received. I’ve been sup-
porting Tramp since 1978 & Bagel since 1979. I wish that I could
take both home, but since I can’t, it makes me happy to know they
are in good & loving hands. I do love both of them.

Jean Geverts - New York, New York

Humane News December 1984 17
NICE REASONS FOR DONATING TO THE SOCIETY

I am enclosing a check given me by my coworkers as a birthday
gift. They'knew no other gift could ever mean as much to me than a
donation that would be sent to you to help contribute to the
wonderful work that you do. If most animal lovers sent PART of
their birthday or Christmas cash presents to the Society, they
would feel as great as Ido knowing that their money isgoing to an
organization determined to preserve the life of God’s beautiful but
helpless creature’s. For all animals that I so love, thank you for the
wonderfuljob you always do. "
Mrs. Vincent Alliegro - Flushing, New York

“In July, l brought my dog Murphy (a black cocker spaniel) to your

agency because my circumstances changed & I was no longer able
to keep him. You assured me that he would be well cared for &
would be kept until he was adopted. When Murphy appeared in One
of your newsletters Shortly after he arrived, he looked great! ,I was
very pleased to see that he was healthy & looked contented. After I
called'you several times to see how he was, I found out he had
been adopted. I am glad he has a new home & family & a new start
on life. Thank you for all the work your agency does. Enclosed
please find a check to help you in your continuing efforts to care
for the animals in your charge.

Nancy Diefendorf‘ - Patchogue, New York

Since I have had a birthday & received several small gifts, l am glad
to Share with the animals. .
Elizabeth L. Pollard - Rye, New York

This contribution is a gift in honor of Jeanie Frederickson & Kim
Prout on the occasion of their marriage. Please send the HUMANE
NEWS to them. - .
Karen & Leon Garcia - Napa, California

Our donation is small. We do contribute to other humane organiza-
tions & with each donation is a fervent prayer that somehow
mankind will realize that animals DO have feelings. You are to be
commended for your efforts in stopping animal abuse.

Richard Mrock & Frances Bredow - Detroit, Michigan

This is my Christmas present from my boss, Mr. Sager & I want
your organization to have it.

Andrea Czar Roush - Law Offices of Sager, Koch & Regal -Akron,
Ohio

I only recently became aware of your organization when a dog-walking
acquaintance suggested that I contact your Newark shelter to see if they
could take a young dog that had been left tied to my fence during the
night. When we brought the dog in, we were very impressed by the
shelter’s cleanliness & the caring & concerned staff. Later I received a
copy of the HUMANE NEWS & learned more about your various programs.
Diana Wittich - Ozone Park, New York

PROUD PARENTS OF ANIMAL-LOVING YOUNGSTERS
Tim has worked very hard collecting donations at shopping centers, laun-
dromats & neighbors, etc. for his friends at the shelter. He hopes this will
help through part of the winter. ‘

Theresa Calderon - Marlow, New Hampshire

My 12 year old daughter Brandy discovered your project but I think what
you’re doing is absolutely fantastic. Brandy is responsible — so far —-
for the adopt of 12 of your animals (under the Share-A-Pet Program). Her
goal is to get 20 sponsors. Brandy, at 12 years old, does extra work so
that she may also send monetary aid to Greenpeace, our local animal
shelter & the Pelican Fund.

Kathy Alls - South Laguna Beach, California

IN MEMORY OF ELVIS... .

Aloha! Just a note to go with our small contribution which we are send-
ing to your organization in memory of Elvis’ generous spirit of giving &
sharing. I’m sorry it cannot be more but we try to give to as many groups
as possible. Thanks for giving us this opportunity to help our four-footed
neighbors & also to honor Elvis’ memory. Sincerely with Aloha for ELVIS.
Sue Wiegert, President - Blue Hawaiians for ELVIS - Los Angeles, .

California , ,

ﬁnd Address Are Included. They Will Be Withheld Upon Request.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18 Humane News December 1984

_LETTERS 1
TO THE EDITOR .

. '0';
ms SPEAK our

HARD-WORKING YOUTHS HELP SOCIETY ORHPANS

The money in the envelope is money I’ve collected from my class at school.
i hopeit will help.
Holly Hollsema - Grand Rapids, Michigan

I saw your ad in READER’S DIGEST & cried. I‘m only 14 but I know
what these animals go through. I‘ve worked at the Nashville
Humane Society for about a year. We seen animals thrown from
cars, animals beaten, or just abused by a lack of love. It’s awful
when people don‘t even have enough dignity to care for helpless
animals. Red may not have a Christmas but maybe this donation
will help some other dogs or any other animals have a Christmas.
Erica Dennis - Nashville, Tennessee

I took up a collection in my class & of my family.
Jackie Tiede - Age 12 - Addison, Michigan

I read about the tragedy of “Red”, the Irish Setter. How someone
could be so mean is beyond my imagination. The heart touching,
story of “Red” is going to be told in our school newspaper if you
don’t mind.

Donna Powell - Euclid, Ohio

POPCORN PARK COLORING BOOK

   

         

i

The" 'SbCiety s newesti'p'iibl’icat‘ion "is the "POPCORN” PARK COLORING ' ”
BOOK which has ,30 pages filled with some of the most popular residents
of Popcorn Park Zoo. There are drawings to color, actual photos of the
animals & a brief story on each animal, on the history of the Society &
the Popcorn Park Wildlife Club. Drawings were done by talented artist
Sharyl Maglionico of Wayne, NJ. These coloring books are aVailable at
2 for $1 + 30¢ for postage & handling. Send your orders to Popcorn Park
Coloring Book, c/o Society, PO. Box 300, Keyport, NJ. 07735.

 

Each year, the National Assoc.
for the Advance of Humane
Education presents an award to
a K-12 teacher who regularly in-
corporates humane education
into his or her teaching ‘ac-
tivities. Nominations are now
being accepted for the 1985
teacher award & the deadline is . ~19» \
January 18th. Nomination forms The Society is always in need
are availablefrom NAAHE, Box 'of funds to make? im-
362, 5, Haddam, CT 05423. movements in the constantly-
' . , "expanding Popcorn Park Zoo. ’

 

 
    

. . I l v 'a
.' ' in
a ' I .-
. - ' .~ . . ‘ r. \
\ _‘- ‘I u
- .,.. ' . ’I
.' . . ‘ WP.” ' ‘
a '.
-..-.- 2v. .
_. .3. . . . .
. ‘ - .'

Special Christmas Edition“

 

Here are three dollar bills —- one from each of my parents & one
from myself. I am 14 years old. I noticed that some people in your
magazine give their allowance to you. Since I don’t receive an
allowance, I asked each of my parents for $1. I’m sure it will be put -
to good use. I live on a farm, love animals & think of them as
friends. If everyone who reads your magazine would give few
dollars a month, lots of the animals would be helped. Anyone who
gets a weekly or monthly salary should surely set aside some
money to send. Even if they forget to give, set your letters aside or
just don’t want to go through the trouble one month, why not give
$1 more or twice as much the next? I know how they feel. i just
started high school & it was a giant change from a small private
school to a large public one. I got a letter from you that first week
of school & almost didn’t respond. Then I set aside 15 minutes to
write & send these three dollars. I’ve been getting the HUMANE
NEWS for about a year & this is the first time l have written. i hope
all goes well for all the needy animals at your shelters & those all
over the world.

Dot Kitten - Slaton, Texas

I’m 91/2 & when I saw your picture, I decided that ‘I would give my
money to you instead of buying things for myself.
Allison Fine - Edmond, Oklahoma

Bookmarks
Available

SNAKES

 

     
 

4

During the Christmas holidays &

vacation from school, many
youngsters enjoy taking their pets
outside for a romp. Young pups,
. . elderly dogs, small dogs & short-
}: haired dogs cannot stay out too
long. Be sure your pet is on a leash,
wearing his tag & if he seems to tire
or shiver, bring him back into the
house to rest up. A sweater or coat
would be of great help. if you are go-
ing bike riding or using your sled, it
could be dangerous to your pet ——
so leave him home. If you have a
dog that is kept outside most of the.
time, he should have a dog. house
to protect him from the weatlEL

FOOD: In the wild, snakes eat small ani-
mals, rodents, etc. However. we do notad-
vocate kllllng one animal to feed another
in captlvlty. We recommend Zu/Preem.
Harp-Diet. a replacement dlet. With Herp.
there Is no need for live food. HOUSING:
Use well-ventllated terrarlum or escape-
proof cage, large enough so snake moves
comfortably. Line with newspaper. add
rocks a shallow dish of water. Clean daily
a keep temperature at 7S°-80°.
HANDLING: Handle freely. Restraln by
grasping behind head at base of jaws. Do
not squeeze. .
ASSOCIATED HUMANE SOCIETIES

Newsrk-Tlnton Falls~Forked Rlver-Brooklyn ’

 

 

 

 

The Society has bookmarks
available. There are 12 types
printed on index stock which in-
clude handy tips on care, feeding
& housing cats, dogs, birds,
hamsters, mice, horse, gerbils &
more. The bookmarks are
available by sending $1 for a com- ‘
plete set of 12. Send your request
to Bookmarks, c/o Society, PO.
Box AF, Keyport, NJ. 07735.

 

Be sure your pet is wearing a

 

.- current license & i.d. tag. If you
move, be sure the tag has'your
NEW address and phone.
number.

KINDNESSIS CONTAGIOUS.
LET’S START AN EPIDEMIC!

I33

 

 




Humane News December 1984 19

6 PACK TO
SAVE A STRAY

m Special Christmas Edition
ti. "‘ifﬁ'vrmw* v: ..-. -'§Ws .1 kiwi m. . + .,.,_.. . : gt we...“ r v; . . :f . 17.71,: ..

     

 

 

 

  

 

Try our Six Pack to Save-A-Stray
Program. Upon your request, the
Society will send you 6 collection
cans with your name & town im-
printed on each can as the local
representative for the Associated
Humane Societies. The cans can be
put at your place of business, at
merchants where you shop, etc. You
will receive an application a
membership card, a letter of in-
troduction & 6 collection cans. The
funds from this program will be us-
ed to help feed & care for the
animals at our Animal Care Centers.
For details, write to SIX PACK FOR
STR’AYS, c/o Society, PO. Box AF,
Keyport, NJ. 07735.

H BOOKSHBLPW

CHANGING U.S. TRAPPING POLICY
A Handbook For Activists
Published by Defenders of Wildlife

 

e
r
1
t
3
v
)
r
3

t

2

According to Allen E. Smith, President of Defenders of Wildlife, during the past few decades, only a few
, states have banned or significantly restricted use of the leghold trap. Moreover, federal legislation has
; failed to receive serious consideration even though conservationists have invested in it substantial
' resources & effort. Legislative Committees & administrative agencies are usually biased in favor of
trappers & the trappers themselves are highly organized. Defenders of Wildlife has collected in one
volume all of the relevant information needed as a broad base of information useful to achieving
changes in trapping policies. This handbook will be useful to every animal lover & perhaps together, we
r can make significant policy reform in an activity that is inhumane, expensive & harmful to wildlife & the
environment. The cost for this handsome handbook is $1.00 per copy to cover postage & handling. Con-
tact Defenders of Wildlife at 1244 - 19th St. N.W., Washington, DC. 20036.

 

 

 

JOIN THE POPCORN PARK WILDLIFE CLUB

Popcorn Park is a unique zoo catering to the needs of handicapped wildlife
that can never be released back to nature. With addition of Lacey the
Lion, Osa & Ursula the 2 Black Bears, the stray Wolves & the possibility
of another needy animal coming in, the Society is constantly expanding
& rebuilding this'haven. The Popcorn Park Wildlife Club helps to offset
the tremendous expense'involved. For only $2.00 a month, you can help
to support the animal of your choice & receive a photo of your pet with

& a periodic report & membership card. For a list of some of the many

y animals available for sponsorship, send $1 to the Popcorn Park Wildlife

3 Club Booklet, c/o The Society, PO. Box AF, Keyport, N.J. 07735.

[-

o

I,

t

I

For most people who enter Popcorn Park Zoo, one of the first animals
they will encounter is Marlboro the Goat. He waits for visitors & then
picks out who he will escort through the Zoo. Marlboro just loves to
be petted 8. thrives on human warmth. What makes this even more
touching is that Marlboro was the only animal of goats, chickens &
"""" " " ‘ '. " " , i eons that had survived in a ritual cult slaying. His neck had been
When a WeehaWke" ”Ede"? SK'P' Eli? which has left it very deformed.
ped town, he left behind in his

apartment a Capuchin Monkey &

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ferdinand the Bull was just a baby
when he was in a petting zoo at a
resort in Giboa, New York. At the
end of the season, Ferdinand was
scheduled for the slaughterhouse
—_ until an animal lover bought
hlm for Popcorn Park Zoo. Ferdi—
nand & his friend Tony just love
to meet & greet visitors — & that-’s
no bull!

a German Shepherd. The Society
was called in by the Police to
remove the animals. The German
Shepherd was quickly adopted &
the Capuchin has been christen-
ed Willie. Willie was brought to
Popcorn Park Zoo where he now
shares an apartment with Dancin’
Gambler. Willie would love to have
some sponsors.

z WILDLIFE

 

 

 

 

:;Abaeeesasé;az;;:é

‘fiiiaadﬁsmrr=zxﬁ<i?' _
r " Numaeaemmts * X$2OOEACH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
   
 
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
     
  
   
  
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
 
   
    
  
  
   

 

 

-. V:,e¥.:.aa..;.:_.c,_ ‘. N...

  
   

20 Humane News December 1984
Bumper Stickers for Sale

PAUSE EIIII PAWS Q

NEWARK
TINTON FALLS - LACEY TWP.
BROOKLYN. N.Y.

ASSOCIATED IIIIIAAIIE SOCIETIES

- OUR 73rd YEAR OF SERVICE

 

The Society has 4 different types of bumper stickers available -—
“PAUSE FOR PAWS”, “I’M JUST NUTS ABOUT ANIMALS” with the-
drawing of a squirrel, “WARNING — I BRAKE FOR ANIMALS”, &
”SUPPORT POPCORN 200”. They are $1 ea. or 6 for $5.

 

 

.BERNSTEIN
HUMANE RESTRAINT POLE

Aids in the apprehension of injured and stray animals DOMESTIC & WILDLIFE '
0 Economical, humane, virtually indestructible.

0 Ideal for animal control, rescue, veterinary and police work.

0 Improved construction reduces risk of accidental strangulation.
0 Acts as a buffer between animal and handler.

0 Special vinyl coated wire won’t cut animal.

0 Self-locking; lightweight, durable plastic.

0 Take very little storage space.

0 Cable has breaking. strength of over l200 lbs. Patent pending I.

 

   
   

Strong enough to hold a bear 0 Replacement parts readily available if needed, ’
guaranteed for one year 0 Order from: Associated Humane Societies. I
All Proceeds to Humane Society - Use coupon Page II. I

A Write for details on attachable net now being developed. I

 

 

g 2% foot with extra heavy cable - $l4.95

 

' 3% tom with extra heavy cable - $15.95

 

4 foot with extra heavy cable - $l2.95

 

Add $2.50 per pole for shipping 8: handling

 

LARGER SIZES AVAILABLE
. THE ASSOCIATED HUMANE SOCIETIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ ..
- , W’J'n um:~~rm:~.ﬂ~wn.u .m
\—~..._.‘. ~ .~M~_.~..« ..=... Mu._...» x...

NEW MARKET FOR
BABY SEALSKINS

It was thought that when the
‘ European market went dry for
Newfoundland seal pelts,
animal welfare groups thought
there wouldn’t be any financial
incentives to continue to kill
baby harp seals. According to

ing unbreakable I.D. TAG that
gives instant pet identification.

MAINSTREAM magazine, Asia AVA'LABLF'NSGQLORS:
appears to be the potential red,blue,Violet,whlte,yellow,
buyer for the skins of these green. ' _

, beleaguered animals. Canadian Send-$2.00 to ASSOCIATED
Fisheries Minister Jim Morgan HUMANE SOCIETIES.

stated that the environmental &

Use cou on on ,
cultural situation is different p Page11

 

 

there & they would not be

swayed by protestg BAN THE LEGHOLDTRAP

v~.9— use—“’4...“ .r.» ny—u—g—rm-a _.,
«”01 . ...........—,~....—_~« ...._.... ..._

Special ChriStmas Edition" I

.l/ A
”4% 4 . 53/
“In memory QBf g3

Your donation in memory of lost loved ones or pets will go a long way to help the
Society’s animals. A donation of $300 will affix a plaque in our kennel, $150 will at-
fix a plaque to a cage 8: $75 will affix a plaque in our Hall of Memories. Plaques are
made up only on request. A contribution in any amount will be listed in the
Memorial Column. However, due to a backlog, please give us some time. The Socie-
ty will send a notice of contributions to the family andlor friends of memorial dona-

tions made in honor of the deceased.

.

We share the sorrow of those who have lost a relative, friend, a companion or a pet.
Loving & lasting donations have been received for those listed herein:

Kelly who passed away Oct. 31, 1984
due to renal failure. A French Poodle
who was a bundle of joy.

The Kings

Terrorist Jack - A stray who captured
our hearts in the few weeks we knew
him before he died. He was loved 8: will
be remembered.

The Jacksons

Loveable Lucy, my faithful bassett—
9-17-69 - 6-7-84 -—Gone but not forgot-
ten.

Helen Russell

Ranger, beloved Toy-Boy, “put down”
after 12 years of love.
Edythe Shepard

Poochie - a great friend & companion
to both my husband & myself.
Rachel Armendariz, Jr.

For our cousin Whitney Corsino. We
will all miss you.
Annette, Charlie & Reno

Stephen Mertz, a dear son, who loved
animals. ‘
Mr. & Mrs. Sig Margulies

PaulZubﬁck
John & Ann Bischoff

Marian Fabricant
Norma M. Weiskopf

Samantha, my 23 yr. old Siamese who

‘ was & always will be more than just a

pet, left us on Aug. 10th in body, but
never in mind.
Lorrie Bowden

A beloved Shellie named Lacey.
Barbara L. Jost

Fred Nonnenmacher
Ethel H. Thurston

My aunt, Marian E. Moorehead, a
former resident of N.J. who loved
animals.

Rita E. Glynn

Our dear beloved pets — Queenie,
Ting-A-Ling, Nicoli, Florida, Warda &
Clayton. We miss & love'you very
much.

The McManis Family

Our beautiful cats, Tigger & Moocher
Mr. & Mrs. Victor M. Eichorn

Our beloved animals that have passed
away. We miss them very much.
Mr. & Mrs. B. Rogarky

Margaret Bessior
Bankers Trust Company of N.Y. *

Smokey, beloved cat of Carolyn Abbe
who passed away at 14. He was loved.
Toni & Phlip Mangee
Joyce Reale

My cousin’s dog, Kasha
Bonnie Stansfield

Our gentle, loving Silky who gave us so
much love & happiness & demanded
nothing. We loved you, Pixie & miss
you.

Elaine & Earl

Princess—a beautiful white fluffy cat
who was saved from being destroyed &
given a wonderful home with George &
Rose Prochaska. They had her for 12
years 8: is missed very much.

Helen & Art

“Miss Noonan” my beautiful Collie-
Spitz mix. She died on her 15th birth-
day, Dec. 23, 1983. I still cry every day
for her.

Gloria'Mazalors

Our long-time friend & companion,
Simon. Our tiger-striped grey cat was
with us for 18 years & we had to make
the difficult decision of putting him to
sleep because of acute kidney failure.
In his name, we hope this donation
helps out some other needy animals.
Wayne & Tamara Brengel

MiltonBall
Mr. & Ms. John L. Collins

Mittens, Mugglns & Cuddle
Marjorie W. Johnson

My beloved Heidi, a small Dachshund
whom I had for 13% years.
Nita B. Gibbs

Our beloved friend “Fritz". He was with
us for 14 years.
Harry Fujioka

Our dear blind Schnauzer, Snoopy
Helen N. Young

Our beautiful boxer Duchess who gave
our family love 8: friendship for 111/2
years. You will always be missed & never
forgotten. We love you so much!

The Hanauer Family '

Our beloved baby boy, Pepe Armond,
died Feb. 24, 1978. Rest in peace.
Mommy, Daddy & your sister Gidget
Butler & Ouinones Family

Our Standard Poodle “Coquette”
Patricia E. Dixon .

Buffy, my sweet, kind, gentle dog, put to

sleep 10-29-84. I miss you very much.

You will always have a place in my heart.
Debbie Cullen

A loving little dog 30 years ago. Forgive
me.
Bobby \

My 11 yr. old dachshund, Josh. I will
always love 8: miss you. You brought ioy
& love to my life.

Jennifer Price Edwards

My beloved pet poodle “Tammy”
Amy Lee

My sweetheart Princess
Mary Sherwood

 

   
        
       
    
    
    
         
     
    

 




 

 

Special Christmas Edition

“ALLERGY- PROOFING” YOUR PET

. ' The Society, along with thousands of humane societies, shelters, poUnds .

across the nation receive unwanted pets given up because of allergy pro-.
blems in the family. There many ways in which to “allergy-proof” your
pet and your house. A product called DUST-SEAL, which is available
through Willner Chemists at 330 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016,
has proven beneficial to many of our readers. It is a harmless chemical
that has the property of uniting with animal or vegetable fibers and preven-l
ting disintegration and will reduce the amount of dander and hair spread
by the animal. The Society has available .a booklet entitled “BEING
HOMELESS IS NOTHING TO SNEEZE ATl” which includes variods tips
for “allergy-proofing” your pet. It is available by sending $1 to ALLERGY,
c/o Society, PO. Box AF, Keyport, NJ. 07735.

 

ANIMAL LOVERS UNITE. 8: WRITE!

As an animal lover & censumer, you have the power to make your views,
likes & dislikes known in a most effective manner. Your pen & your pocket-

‘ book are your most powerful weapons. Write letters to the offending com-

panies. Refuse to buy products from the companies who display callous

indifference to animals.

Publishers Clearing House is of-
fering a mink coat as one of the
many prizes offered in their
sweepstakes. Letters can be

sent to Mrs. Robin Smith, Presi-

dent, Publishers Clearing
House, 382 Channel Drive, Port
Washington, N.Y. 11050. ’

 

A GIFT TO
CONTRIBUTORS!

 

 

The Society has obtained these
attractive indoor/outdoor ther-
mometers & will be giving them to

— anyone who contributes $50.00 or

more to the Society upon re-
quest. These attractive 73/4” see-

through thermometers with suc-
tion cups can be affixed to your
"'1“ . window 8: is a hit for all seasons!

Send your donation to Gift Offer,
c/o Society, P.O. ,Box 300,
Keyport,“. N.J. 07735.

 

American Express Co. is offering for
sale a genuine Mink Teddy Bear to
all cardholders. You can write to Mr.
James Robinson lll, President,
American Express Co., American
Express Plaza, New York, N. Y.
10004.

Finesse, the name brand for condi-
tioner, shampoos & hair sprays
recently ran a sweepstakes with the
grand prize being offered was a fur
coat & hat & two first prizes includ-
ed.mink & fox jackets. Finesse pro-
ducts are manufactured by Helene
Curtis Industries lnc., 4401 W.
North Ave., Chicago, IL 60639.
Letters should be directed 'to the
Office of the President.

Ident Tags
Available

 

The SOCIety has identification tags ‘
for pets and people. A 'personaliz-
ed tag will give your pet the extra
protection of being returned to

you, if he strays. Tags are
available with 4 lines of inscription
(15 characters/line incl. spaces) for
$2. Please allow 3 weeks for
delivery. PRINT your request us-
ing the coupon on page 11.

TEENAGERS

These popular dog tags are
available with a 20” chain with
your favorite saying — or in case
you get lost. Only $2.75.

 

The Society has mailed out
photos & reports to all in-
dividuals on the Share-A-Pet
Pregram, Popcorn Park Wild:
life Club & Foster Pet Program. ‘
If you have not received your
photo & report, please write to
the Society, P. O. Box AF,

Keyport, NJ. 07735. ‘ *

l-

,

Humane News December198‘4 21
FOSTER 'PET PROGRAM

If you have a dog meat you can no longer keep, a stray that you have
a special liking for, an elderly animal which“ has become a burden or you
are movinginto an apartment where no pets are allowed, the Society has
an alternative — the Animal Haven Farm at its Forked River facility where
such pets can live out their lives in peace or where hopeful pets can have
reom to roam until theytare adopted. All of the animals are neutered, in-
oculated and the publiccan visit with them. The dogs have kennels, dog

houses, barns, a boat, wading pools. .The cats have small

“hotels”, a

boat, a boathouse where they can meander — inside and‘outside. For
more information, just send a self-addressed stamped envelope requesting
information on this unique program. Your request should be sent to the
Foster Pet Program, c/o Society, PO. Box AF, Keyport, NJ. 07735.

 

Bravo came from New York City &
he’s been with us since 1978. It’s
a fact of life that just ain’t so great.
He has been hoping fer a real
romance. But no one ' wants to
give him half a chance. File 94608
(Forked River).

 

My owner died but she made

provisions. Luckily She has
some foresight & .visiongBut
my future is' not so certain.
‘Cause. on cats, men at dogs .I
want to do some Hurtin’. I like
the ladies...l don’t want to fib.
I’m a card-carrying gent for
women’s lib. File 0-23252 (Fork-
ed River).

PLEASE CUT & RETURN

DONATION COUPON

HUMANE NEWS
I24 Evergreen Avenue
Newark. New Jersey on l4

NEWS.

NAME:

The HUMANE «NEWS is supported by your donations. If you approve
‘ot our work 8: would like to help. please send us a contribution.
Any donation will entitle you to a year s subscription of the HUMANE

Phone: (20 I) 824-7080

 

ADDRESS

 

CITY. STATE 8: ZIP:

 

to receive the HUMANE NEWS.

BANKAMERICARD IUISA)
AMERICAN EXPRESS

7‘ INTERBANK No.

Check here is you wish to receive receipt.
Check it this is your first donation 8: you would like to be placed on the mailine list

[I CARTE BLANCHE .
D MASTERCARD

 

Card No.

fMastercard Only — fnumber above your name)

Expiration Date: _______ S

Month/Year Amount

PLEASE CUT & RETURN

 




 

 

 

I,

22‘ HUmane News

I ecember 1984

n l
y.

' Special Christmas Edition

 

AROUND.
THE USA

ALASKA

The. Dept. of Fish & Game con-
fiscated an Anchorage fireman's 3
pet ferrets claiming that the animals
could pose a threat to Alaska’s
game if they escaped into the wild.
The judge found that should the fer-
rets escape, they do not survive in
the wild anywhere. He also ruled
that ferrets are domestic animals &
cannot be regulated by Fish &
Game. The Asst. District Attorney
has objected to the return of the ter-
rets on /the grounds that they are
evidence & has vowed to appeal the
judge’s decision.

CALIFORNIA

Responding , to concerned
neighbors, sheriffs deputies broke
into a kennel on the outskirts of
Stockton. They discovered 85 skin-
ny dogs & cats & the remains of 18
dogs 8 19 cats. The healthy had sur-
vived'by eating the dead animals.
Henry “Bud” Knudsen, licensed by
the Federal government to supply
research labs with dogs & cats ob-
tained the animals from municipal
pounds, was charged with 124
counts of animal cruelty. San Joa-
quin sheriffs deputies had arrested
Knudsen & others in July 1983 in an
alleged scheme‘to obtain dogs from
pet owners under false pretenses. It
appears that Knudsen would answer
ads of people who wanted to give
their pets away “free to a good
home”. Knudsen’s employees had
indicated that When they had to
destroy sick animals, dogs were shot
& cats were slaughtered on bricks
with mallets, A. US. Dept. of
Agriculture compliance offer felt that
there was insufficient evidence on
past charges to charge Knudsen
under the Animal Welfare Act.” The
USDA. inspected Knudsen only
once this year.

CALIFORNIA ‘

Michael Cambra of Sonoma
County was charged with animal
neglect, torture & violation of
state fish & game laws after 161
calves suffering from‘dehydra-
tion were taken from his proper-
ty & the remains of 90 other-s
were found rotting. Some were
still chained to their stalls in a
barn where the temperature was
'well over 100°. No food or water
was found on the property &
some were so weak, they
couldn’t stand or get into the
truck which impounded them.
Michael Cambra . pleaded not
guilty & stated that they were
suffering from a virus. The
American Veal Association has
rallied to Cambra’s defense to
counter adverse publicity
stating it was. an “isolated” inci~
dent

 

 

FLORIDA

When the Animal Protection Institute
was alerted to a deer hunt where
deer would be shot at with spotlights
at Patrick Air Force Base in Cape
Canaveral, API' advised them of non-
lethal methods to solve the problem
including chemical repellents & the
use of fencing. Officials at Patrick
advised on May 2nd that no hunt
would take place until after the fawn
season. However, when again con-
tacted on May 14th by API, the hunt
had already been underway for 3
days. The Div. of Fish & Game told
them to go ahead with the hunt &
“shoot around the fawns”. Letters
of complaint regarding the lack of in-
terest in following up on non-lethal
measures can be sent to:

Col. Donald Linenberger

Base Commander .
Patrick Air Force Base .

Cape Canaveral, Florida 32925

FLORIDA
According to ANIMALS
magazine, Friends of the

Everglades has filed suit against
South Florida Regional Planning
Council for failure to review the
environment impact of a 3,500
unit condominium development
currently under construction in
Key Largo.

IOWA

House Bill 2306, which would re-
quire that the Conservation Commis-
sion limit or restrict the taking of wild
animals, fish, birds, reptiles & am-
phibians, has been passed into law.

KENTUCKY

A group of 8th graders in Bob
Strong’s social studies class at
Highland Middle School in Louisville
had a 6 week study of pioneer life.
As about 40 students watched, one
student used an axe to chop off the
head of a turkey the students had
named Willy Wally. Several of the
students’ parents complained to the
schooL

LOUISIANA

Two student wildlife workers who
were called to a Baton Rouge shop-
ping center found 3 little raccoons
in a trash bin. The animals were ex-
hausted & too small to climb out.
Witnesses stated they saw the
animals beaten to death by the
wildlife workers with boards. Accor-
ding to Hugh Bateman, Chief of the
Dept. of Wildlife & Fisheries, the
students were reprimanded & in-
definitely suspended. No final deci-
sion has been made about their
keeping their jobs but Bateman
thought “they had been punishe
enough” .

 

High frequency pest eliminators can
kill hamsters, gerbils, & guinea pigs.

MAINE

Several complaints Were filed
against a 15 yr. old boy, Tim Barrick-
law, who had fed pet kittens to his
pet python. His mother, Pam Lewis,
defended his actions as keeping the
snake alive. The boy said he got the
kittens by responding to newspaper
ads offering them “free to a good
home.” The boy plans on using rab-
bits to feed his snake & as Apache’s
appetite increases, it will demand
large animals such as pigs & goats.

MINNESOTA

Friends of Animals & Their Fate
has challenged the Dept. of
Agriculture for not exercising its
power to regulate & prescribe
standards for fur farm facilities
within the state. It has been
charged that animals raised on
fur farms are done so under hor-
rendous conditions.

MISSOURI

Charles Puff, a St. Louis construc-
tion company owner has opened the
High Adventure Game Range in
Crawford County — 1,000 acres of
private land for exotic big-game hun-
ting. It will also be the breeding
ground to increase the population of
big game animals including buffalo,
elk, boar, deer, sheep, goats & was
approved by the Missouri Conserva-

tion Commission. Boy scouts helped '

to drive out the native deer so that
fencing could be completed.

NEW HAMPSHIRE

A proposal to introduce dog rac-
ing at Rockingham Park was
narrowly rejected by Salem
voters.

NEW HAMPSHIRE

The Fish & Game Dept. has
recommended that an ex-
perimental moose hunting
season be established in 1985.

OREGON

Solomon Silver of Waterville was ar-
rested for a traffic violation in August
by Cumberland County sheriff
duties. Deputy Sheriff Michael Babil
rolled up the windows, locked up the
car with Jack, a 3 yr. old Shepherd
inside. -When Silver was freed 14
hous later, he found the dog had suf-

focated. Cumberland County Sheriff ' .

Martin Joyce, Jr. cleared his depu-
ty of any wrondoing claiming that
Silver stated that someone would
make arrangements to pick up the
dog. However, Silver claims that
Babin said the dog would be fine.

PENNSYLVANIA

Eight Pennsylvanians have been
successfully prosecuted for killing &
wounding bald eagles since the
creation of a Pennsylvania Eagle
Protection Reward Fund started
oVer a year ago. The fund offers
$1,500 to anyone who provides in-
formation leading to the arrest &

conviction of persons harrassing, in-
. juring or killingan eagleawithin the

state. .

PENNSYLVANIA
The Bucks County SPCA pro-
secuted Vernon Hock of Quaker-

town for tying up four 2 week old kit-.

tens in 2 plastic bags & throwing the
bags outlside. Found by some
witnesses, two kittens were dead &
the other 2 were flea-ridden & pan-
ting heavily. They, too, died. He was
found guilty & fined a total .of
$103.25 by District Justice Kathryn
Stump.

PENNSYLVANIA

An alert was issued in Beaver Coun-
ty by animal control officer Mike
Gingerella regarding a man driving
a brown or blue Ford pick-up truck
with a white cap & cages on the
back. The man is suspected of pick-
ing up stray dogs & responding to
ads offering dogs free to a good
home. Anyone spotting the in
dividual is urged to call your local
police.

TEXAS

The Nature Society News recently
reported on the killing of a thousand
cattle egrets & herons at a rookery
near Hubbard by the US. Fish &
Wildlife Service. It was reportedly
done prior to the end of the nesting
period. Also killed were Little Blue
Herons, Great Blue Herons & Snowy
Egrets. A 71 yr. old. resident hack-
ed to death one of the birds. The
destruction of the recurring rookery
was done at the request of the
Mayor of Hubbard.

 

January is the time for you to get
your dog’s license. Please be sure
the license is affixed to the collar —
& that the collar is one the dog.

 

RECYCLE YOUR
CHRISTMAS TREE

 

Are you having a real Christmas tree
this year? You could recycle your
Christmas tree after the holiday & be
used for the benefit of wildlife. It can
be re-decorated with strings of
cranberries, raisins, popcorn, suet
balls to be used as a bird feeding
station & also for use as cover. The
birds will have a nice holiday after
you have had yours. But be sure to
continue to feed the birds ,until next
spnng!

,l

l.

 




1'33;

, Special Christmas‘Edition ”

 

Bowl Them Over
,, For The
Humane SUCiety . EXECUTIVE OFFICES Published. monthly I

124 Evergreen Avenue
Newark, N. J. 07114
Phone: (201) 824-7080

 
  

 

 

 

  

 

" \ \ PUBLISHER Lee Bernstein
\ - $3,112,?“ CTY' EDITOR ' Roseann Trezza
2960 Shafto Rd. CONTRIBUTING EDITORSUheﬂe Bono .
Tinton Falls. N. J. 07724 Patricia P. Widmer
You can help the Society gain new friends without ever leaving your home! ”we: ‘20“ 922-0100 ' ' Karen Kuehn ,
In an effort to meet new people & acquaint them with the work that we OCEAN CTY- BRANCH PHOTO EDITORS Robert Selfridee
are doing to help animals, we must spread the word to new pebple. Here’s Sugar?" Vi? at Lacey Rd- Declan Fortman ’
how the program works: If you fill out the coupon below, we will ‘send - 'Foriéedcii‘iver. N_ J_ 08731 , John Bereman
, you mailing labels to address for the Society. You can use your telephone Phone: (609) 693-1900 FUND RAISING EDITOR
f.” book, membership lists from your church or civic club, voter registration NEW YORK BRANCH Marshall Fendrick
1’? lists, friends, dog license lists, etc. Please print, type or write clearly giv- Phone: (2121 232-6900 LAYOUT EDITOR Roselvn Israel
" ing the name, address and zip code on the labels and return them to the - CIRCULATION EDITORS Carole Goss
' Society. We will then send each person a sample copyof the HUMANE FUND RAISING DEPT- Evelyn Flatlev , .
NEWS - . . P. 0. Box 300 , _ ,_
Keyport, N. J. 07735
BOWL THEM OVERI, c/O Associated Humane Societies I 32 mama?'alﬁﬁgiﬁrcmﬁaﬁggﬁggg: atom;
P.O. Box AF, Keyport, New Jersey 07735 PUBLISHER

 

 

Please send me a supply of labels that .I may address for the ' ' . V

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i, Society so that they may enlarge their circle Of friends and , ASSOCIATED
. educate more people on the plight of animals. HUMANE socmngs- {22:23 fxaznigg'lglane 8‘
‘ , BOARD OF TRUSTEES " ° .
N Albert Beim President Restored fragments of the New
ame William Sano lst Vice President Teﬂamem “MI The early church
| Leonard Atlas 2nd Vice President deleted- This 000'! may chance
? Street Address lEt'odseann Trezla ' Secretary your life!
a on Fodor Treasurer
Lee Bernstein Executive Director 54-95
i City, State & ZIP We Harold on... The EdeniteSociety. Inc. .
Douglas Kilian Dept. HN
i I am enclosing herewith S . Please send me the following as checked: ::::ar?ﬁ:h:pne Imlavstown. NJ" 08526
I] Wills and Bequests $1 ea...
CI Cremation & Burial Services $1 ea. ' Mary Grace Dewey, Hm Bd. Member
l. U “Allergy-Proofing” Your Pet 51 ea. B t , G l d & Booth _ A norm 5
1 a Popcorn Park Wildlife Club Book 31 ea. '°‘”"‘ em, ° V
v C] Share-A-Pet Program Book $1 ea. \
5 Cl Humane Society Coloring Book - 112 pages 32 ea.
E; El Pet Lovers Calling Merchandise Book $2 ea. 6/1510”! pﬂlhtlh€5 . . . ' _
i ($2 refund on first order) . . . . . , -.
Sperm/12mg m -. . r" .,
. __ 1%! Portraits in Oil ,. ' " .
i " 'A’ODJ-FRIENO , , . . ‘
Pp Listed below is name & address of someone I would like to 5774’ g// May/[0,1150 PLEASE SUPPORT
‘ receive a sample copy of HUMANE NEWS. 201_770_1053 OUR ADVERTISERS —-
. ’ ’ THEY SUPPORT US! ’
Name i— '
W'LDL'FE RESCUE ' Fiﬁveﬁci'oiﬁEEﬁem'i
& RELEASE I '
Address I am enclosing herewith $_____. $—_“ to be used to spay 8‘

to be used for the care of injured neuter Society . orphans "1'

or orphaned wildlife until it is order to cut down on pet

' r | i n.
able to be released. 0V9 POP“! at 0
ATTACH TO BOTTOM COUPON | ATTACH TO BOTTOM coupon

 

City, State & Zip Code
(Additional names can be added on separate paper).

 

 

 

 

r-—---

 

 

.' If thisis the first edition of THE HUMANE NEWS that you are receiving and you would like to be put,
‘ on the mailing list for the monthly magazine, all that is required is a donation. The amount we leave
; up to you. Please make checks payable to ASSOCIATED HUMANE SOCIETIES. -

I

 

- .. 3"?!“

 




.. dug- ~. ”wan: a ._,. u». ...- . .~.

,i'

 

Eacn month, for the past 7 years, the HUMANE NEWS’ back page
has been devoted to new candidates for the Share- A- Pet Program.
Unless you become of the program, you may be aware of any future
happenings. Many pass away, many are adopted but there are
many who remain at the Society —— never knowing the joy of a lov-
ing home. We have decided to devote this page to some of our
“Oldies but Goodies” who have not known the happiness of being

readers will open their hearts & hopefully, their homes to these
special orphans so that they may experience the small wonder of
love & friendship that most of us takefor granted. For those not '
familiar with the Share-A—Pet Program .& the many animals in need
of comfort & care that you can contribute to each month, just send
$1 to Share-A-Pet Booklet, c/o Society, PO. Box AF, Keyport, N.J.
07735.

so'meone’s pet. As the spirit of Christmas nears, we hope our

BOGEY OF LAURENCE HARBOR

When they were paSsing out.

looks, Bogey must have taken a
coffee break. Since he’s been on
this earth, life hasn’t been a piece
of cake. He’s a real sweetheart
with a deformed paw. But that
very slight handicap is his only
flaw. (Forked River).

LIGHTNING OF ELlZABETH

This aging, slow-moving fella
has been jokingly named Lightn-
ing; He was pushed out of a car
& finding love would give his
world some brightening. Not a
mean bone in his body, he’s so
gentle & so‘kind. And with all the

cruelty he endured, he was

abandoned when he was blind.
" I-‘:(Newark).

BAGEL OF BELLEVILLE

She waited for love for almost 6
years & that’s a very long time.
Finding someone who’ll care
enough to adopt would make her
world sublime. She’s a loving
lady who has aged before our
eyes. Will she ever know the joy
of a loving home sometime
before she dies? (Forked River).

ROMEO & JULIET THE 3- LEGGED
CATS

Romeo & Juliethad been victims
of cars. They each have 3 legs &
they are our Share-A-Pet stars.
They were raised together & are
used to each other. They are as
close & loving as sister 8: brother.
(Newark).

JOKER OF LAVALETTE

We have a sure bet for a perfect
pet & you don’t need to gamble.
She’s a loving lady who would
never ramble. So pass up the slot
machines & don’t bother playing
poker. Just visit Kitty City & meet
a sweetheart named Joker. (Fork-
ed River).

:8&,\.

SPARE PARTS OF VERONA
Here’s the sweetest lady who
would endear herself to most
hearts. She walks like she’s
loosely hung together & she was
christened Spare Parts. We
don’t need to go on with lots of
platitudes. She would accept a
loving owner with sheer
gratitude. (Forked River).

MlTCH OF BRADLEY BEACH

No, he doesn’t have the hand-
some looks of a Paul Newman.
But his personality is the
closest thing we know to being
human. Of all the dogs that wait,
Mitch’s lack of love makes him
suffer. A day without love for the
likes of Mitch makes his life so,
much tougher. (Newark). '

 

 

THE HUMANE NEWS
124 Evergreen Ave.
Newark, NJ. 07114

 

Non-Profit Org.
US. Postage
- P A l D
ASSOClATED HUMANE
SOCIETIES. lNC.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

March 6, 1986

Mrs. S. Ware, Organizing .
Greek Animal Welfare Fund
11 Lower Barn Road
Purley, Surrey CR2 lHY

ENGLAND

Dear Mrs. Ware,

Your article will be published in the spring issue of The Animal
Welfare Institute Quarterly and we wish to indicate that you are
the author. Generally, authors names have been given by first and
second names without ”Mrs.” or other prefix. Do you prefer to have

‘A - A- A ‘ A A A A- - A A A Q A

Best wishes,
Sincerely,

x"? >057 ‘7‘ Z: ’ ( f
<“ détxﬂ aréézuﬁmk9

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

 

ta:
V 1!

{:3

EH

"101.

on
v

"W.
._,
M».

a
02:3

37" 3/;

L. .1

.w. ‘4 '5'
f. ‘32:

a
J

. “an
1
c.-
w

(“2.7
.5.
' 1" :
\wiiy‘u.»
..
a , 9: K“

”b
«5
L34

5'

SQK

ﬁ
IQRE

1

as
’I
f

w
v
{d .L

w
a

,

‘3'?

-'4

l0

 




@Héé K PATRON: THE LADY MARY FITZALAN HOWARD
FOUNDER &IPRESIDENT: MRS ELEANOR CLOSE M.A.
VICE-PRESIDENTS: MISS ELSA GRIFFITH M.A.
PROFESSOR ROSALIND HILL
CHAIRMAN: .JOHN ALEXANDER-SINCLAIR S.M.O.M., F.R.S.M.P.
EUﬂ© e , 11 LOWER BARN ROAD, PURLEY, SURREY CR21HY
LIMITED ’ E” "~ TELEPHONE 01-668 0548

Please address all correspondence to the Organising Secretary Mrs G. Ware

 

 

3rd October, 1985

Mrs. C. Stevens,
President,

Animal Welfare Institute,
P.O. Box 3650,
WASHINGTON, D.C., 20007.

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

Thank you so much for your letter dated 26th August, 1985 and please accept my
apologies for the delay in replying but we have been exceedingly busy during
the last two months.

The suggestion as to how you might keep in closer touch with the work in Greece —
I really cannot think of any immediate answer but obviously I can keep on sending
you all the newsletters and reports etc., that emﬂnate from this office and if
there are any other big issues which are exercising the minds of people over
there and here, perhaps I could let you have information so that it will keep you
in the picture.

I will, however, keep in mind your request and let you know if I have any bright
ideas on the subject.

It was most kind of you to offer to take an article for publication in your
excellent journal and I enclose a script which please feel free to edit as you
think necessary._ I have tried to indicate something of the origin of the Society
and also what we are currently doing without putting in too many of the horrors
but also trying to make it as general as possible. If you feel that this is not
quite what you wanted please let me know and I will re-write it, but in the mean-
time I hope you will be able to do something with the attached.

Best wishes,

Yours sincerely,»

Gwen Ware (Mrs)
Organising Secretary _

Enclosure

Registered (as a charity) No. 233574 ' Registered (as a company) in England No 881216
Member of the World Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA)
Registered office: 58A Croydon Road, Caterham, Surrey CR3 6QB

 




éé PATRON: THE LADY MARY FITZALAN HOWARD
@@ K FOUNDER & PRESIDENT: MRS ELEANOR CLOSE M.A.
VICE-PRESIDENTS: MISS ELSA GRIFFITH M.A.
H l w’a‘ PROFESSOR ROSALIND HILL
CHAIRMAN: .JOHN ALEXANDER-SINCLAIR S.M.O.M., F.R.S.M.P.
EUﬂﬁ) . 11 LOWER BARN ROAD, PURLEY, SURREY CR21HY
LIMITED 1 TELEPHONE 01-668 0548

Please address all correspondence to the Organising Secretary Mrs G. Ware

 

 

HOW BRITAIN IS HELPING GREECE HELP THE ANIMALS

"WHY GREEK ANIMAL WELFARE? is a question frequently asked of members of the Greek
Animal Welfare Fund (GAWF), with its base in Surrey in the south of England.

The answer is partially given by returning tourists from Greece, some of whom will
never go back to that beautiful and hospitable country on account of the animal
distress and neglect they encounter there. It was one long-term visitor, Mrs.
Eleanor Close, M.A., then resident in Athens, who decided that something must be
done. In 1959, appalled by conditions in the main dog pound and experimental
hospitals in Athens and with the support of other English - also Greek, and American -
ladies, she established the Greek Animal Welfare Fund. Thanks, in the main to
Eleanor Close's initiative and drive, a new dog pound was built, hospitals visited
to demonstrate the use of anaesthetics, new quarters built for the wretched

animals housed in filthy dank cellars, humane methods of euthanasia introduced,
horse markets and abattoirs inspected and the cruel traffic in live horses, donkeys
and mules to Italy for slaughter, exposed. Cats and kittens abandoned at the
archaeological sites and elsewhere were regularly fed and a start was made in
providing humane education for the schools. All this at a time not long after

the War when priority was for human and especially child welfare, and despite

the Greeks' innate fear of animal diseases and abhorrence of euthanasia.

But the work must go on ... GAWF helps to fund anything that is needed for the
betterment of animal welfare in Greece: animal food, veterinary medicines and
equipment, ambulances, clinics, campaigns to spay cats and bitches, funds to
buy up "old crocks" at the markets and give them a merciful end, the services
of a farrier, and now, most ambitious of all, a project to build a true animal
Rescue Centre in Athens, to be a model for the rest of the country.

Much has been achieved but so much more needs to be done. And that takes money.
G.A.W.F. members work tirelessly to supply the funds required, but the demand is
endless.

G.A.W.F. takes heart from the words of.a Greek lady, living in Athens; "The Greek
Animal Welfare Fund.should be proud of the change it has brought in Greece in the
care of animals. Even though Greece is no paradise for animals, it has ceased to
be the HELL it was ..."

Registered (as a charity) No. 233574 ' Registered (as a company) in England No 881216
Member of the World Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA)
Registered office: 58A Croydon Road, Caterham, Surrey CR3 BQB

 




7"

i 9
ﬂ»ﬂéék X Patron: The Lady Mary Fitzalan Howard
L
\g .
Founder & President: Mrs Eleanor Close MA.
@ﬂﬂmm , Vice-Presidents: Miss Elsa Griffith M.A..
' ' Professor Rosalind Hill

0
wél‘ggné . -. Chairman:JohnAlexander-SinclairS.M.O.M.,F.R.S.M.P.

EUmﬁ) ' - 11 Lower Barn Road, Purley, Surrey CR2 1HY
L‘M'TED Telephone 01 -668 0548

Please address all correspondence to the Organ/sing Secretary Mrs G. Ware

Mrs. Christine Stevens,
Animal Welfare Institute,
P.O. Box 3650,
Washington, D.C.,ZOOO7,
U.S.A. 6th November 1985

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

Thank you so much for your letter of the
18th October, and please accept my apolcgies for
the delay in replying.

I am enclosing a rather more detailed account
of present day problems and what we are doing to
help. If you feel that it is a little too
expansive please cut as you think fit.

Thank you also for offering to use photographs
and I enclose a couple which I think will demonstrate
the need for help.

Yours sincerely,

l
r

S
//’\r/ ,
/

Mrs. G. Ware
Organising Secretary

 

Registered (as a company) in England No. 881216 - Registered (as a charity) No. 233574
Member of the World Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA)
Registered office: 58A Croydon Road, Caterham, Surrey CR3 BQB

 




    

    

HOW BRITAIN lb HELPING GREECE HhLP THE ANIMALS

 

”WHY GREEK ANIMAL WELFARE?”

This is a question frequently asked of members of the Greek
Animal Welfare Fund CGAWF), with its base in Surrey in the

South of England. The answer is partially given by returning
tourists from Greece, some of whom have vowed they would never

go back on account of the animal distress and neglect they
encountered there. It was one long-term visitor, Mrs. Eleanor
Close, M.A., then resident in Athens, who decided that something
must be done. In 1959, appalled by conditions in the main dog
pound (where dogs emerged still alive from malfunctioning
electric chambers, to be killed off With strycﬁine), and in the
experimental hospitals (where anaesthesia for animals was unheard
of and where many were housed in filthy dark cellars before and
after operations) , she set up the Greek Animal Welfare Fund7*“
Thanks to her initiative and drive, a new dog pound was built
hospitals visited to demonstrate the use of anaesthetics and

new quarters for the hapless animals. Humane methods of
euthanaSia were introduced, horse markets and abattoirs inspected
and the cruel traffic in live horses, donkeys and mules to Italy
for slaughter exposed. Cats and kittens abandoned at the
archaeological sites and elsewhere were regularly fed and a start
was made in providing a humane education for the schools. All this
at a time not long after a world war and a ciVil war when priority
was for human and especially child welfare.

AND WHAT OF TODAY'S PROBLEMS?

The Greek Government has recently started a stray dog control
programme out as yet there are insufficient pounds, and many
abandoned dogstand Cats) are still being poisoned, especially on
the islands, before the tourist influx in the Spring. Strychnine
is officially banned but equally cruel pOisons are readily
available, and the culprits rarely, if ever, apprehended. Many
Greek people still have a deep—rooted fear of cats and dogs as
carriers of fear—inspiring diseases — rabies and echinoccocus ~
hence they are seen as enemies, not friends,.of man. BUT an
abhorrence of euthanasia still prevails amongst many peOple,
which means that Sick or injured animals can be left to suffer
out their lives without a merciful release. Abattoirs are still
far below an acceptable standard and it is acknowledged that
almost all the smaller animals, sheep, goats, lambs, are still
killed without pre—stunning. There is virtually no control over
animal experimentation, though mercifully this is on a relatively
small scale. ‘

WHAT GAWF DO TO HELP?

The Soc1ety donates barbiturates for humane destruction, money

for animal food, veterinary medicines and equipment, ambulances
and vehicles, has helped set up clinics for the poorer section

of the community, is funding a steriliZing campaign for cats and
bitches,and helps the Hellenic Animal Welfare Society in Athens

to buy up 'old crocks' at the horse markets and give them a

humane end. It has played a part in reducing, if not stopping,
the horrific traffic in live equines to Italy for slaughter, and
is providing a farrier to visit the islands where so many carriage
horses are gravely over~worked, often lame and almost invariably
badly shod.




The situation is especially bad on Santorini where donkeys

and mules toil up the long zig—zag path to Thera in the broiling
sun, endlessly througbut the season. Complaints from GAWF and
the Hellenic Society have resulted in the Ministry of Agriculture
promising to provide a reSident vet for the island. A programme
of humane education is being planned and the work of the few
Greek animal welfare societies and private individuals concerned
about animal suffering is funded on a regular basis. Our present
and most ambitious project is to set up a true Animal Rescue
Centre in Athens to take in unwanted animals, try to home them,
euthanaze only when unavoidable; to prOVide a clinic for the less
well off; to offer an information service for the public, and
very importantly, promote sterilization of both dogs and cats.
Such a centre would be the first of its kind in Greece and we
hOpe the fore-runner of others over the country.

HOW IS GAWE FUNDED?

The society is entirely dependent on the generous support of its
members and donations from Trusts, receiving no State aid. So
much needs to be done, eSpecially on the islands and in rural
mainland Greece, and it we are to give really meaningful help

to the handful of animal welfare organizations, we need to

increase our membership and our income considerably. WhllSt there 15

no room for complacency, we take heart from the words of a
Greek lady living in Athens: ”The Greek Animal Welfare Fund
should be proud of the change it has brought in Greece in the
care of animals. Even though Greece is no paradise for animals,

it has ceased to be the HELL it was...”

 




t!

Headquarters:
1] LIME HILL ROAD 1
TUNBRIDGE WELLS TH
KENT TN] ILJ
ENGLAND

All correspondence to SecreIa/y:
BEAUTY WITHOUT CRUELTY
P.(). BOX 97
NICWLANDS 7725
REP. OF SOUTH AFRICA

August 1985

 

INTERNATKNWAL

THE EUR TRADE IN GREECE

Until two decades ago the fur trade was predominantly a Jewish
industry but an ethnic change took place and today the trade
is dominated by Greeks. Greeks not only predominate in the fur
manufacturing sector but also in their union which is known

as the Furriers Joint Council.

The sheer numbers of fur sheps in Greece is staggering—the small
island of Rhodes has over 200! The fur trade boom in this country
is a result of low labour costs and their taxes are the

lowest in the EEC making it possible to retail furs relatively
cheaply. In America and in other parts of Europe the tourist
season is short and stores work with a high profit margin.
However in Rhodes there are foreign tourists seven months of

the year plus Greek tourists during the winter months enabling
furriers to keep profit margins low and continuous throughout

the year.

The fur trade in Greece dates back thousands of years to
Kastoria a small town in the north of the country. Workers
specialised in creating garments out of small pieces of fur,
a unique skill which anywhere else in the world would double
the price of the garment. Many Kastorian Greeks have moved
elsewhere in Greece and some have emigrated thus keeping

this skill alive. Working with small pieces and off cuts of
furs has meant that the Greeks often do not find it necessary
to purchase an entire skin and this factor contributes
significantly to the low retail price.

2/...........

SOUTH AFRICAN TRUSTEES: C. BERRY (Managing Trustee) M. DE WET S. JACOBS S. MOORE W. VAN ALPHEN C. WHD
REGISTERED AS FUND—RAISING ORGANXSATION N0. 08 800064 000 4

   




The Greek fur industry is big business catering mostly to

the foreign tourist. This year, 1985, 6.6 million tourists

are expected to visit the country. The fur shops are packed

with every type of ranched and wild skin and there is an

abundance of CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) appendix 1 listed endangered

species skins available to the purchaser. Every shop I visited

(approximately 60) had a good selection of coats made from
leopard,cheetah,oscelot and coats made from the belly skins
of jaguar are freely available. Some of the shop managers I
questioned had no idea what constituted an endangered species
and one manager informed me that there would be no problem in
taking an oscelot or jaguar coat back to South Africa as they
are not only indigenous to this country but are also abundant
in numbersll

The general atitude of Greek furriers is that it is their duty
to stock and supply the widest variety of pelts possible and
apparently spotted skins are very pOpular and in great demand!
Some of the prices of full length coats were as follows:
Leopard coat 5.000 U S Dollars

Blue 0scelot 5.500 U S Dollars

Wild Sable 4.500 U S Dollars

Canadian Lynx 10.000 U S Dollars

Clients and would be fur buyers are being fed with innacurate

and false information in order to secure sales. 0n enquiring
about seal skin coats I was shown something labelled ”fish otter"
and told that a"fish otter"and a seal are one and the same animal.
0n arguing the point it was finally admitted that seal skin

coats are no longer labelled as such due to growing public
antipathy to seal clubbing which has been publicised by the
anti-sealing lobbyists!

In a large fur shop in Athens I discussed with the manager the
possibility of having a cheetah coat made up for myself. He
did not have cheetah skins on the premises but he informed me
that he would have no trouble in obtaining skins. As CITES
regulations are fairly well enforced in Britain I informed the
manager that I was a British citizen and asked him if I would

 




 

/ asked him if I would

have problems at customs in getting the coat into the country.
I was told that although the skins used for the coat would
be new, I would be given documentation stating that the skins
were "old stock" bought prior to 1970. He informed me that
false documentation is given regularly in order to get around

this problem of import regulations in the various countries!!!

This blatent display and trade in garments made from skins of
endangered species raises a number of doubts as to the bona
fides of the International Fur Trade Federation (IFTF).

This body, always intent on improving its public image, actively
publices its support of ”true" conservation issues and its
concern for the protection of endangered species. Indeed the
Federation has funded various IUCN (International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) projects such

as the leOpard and cheetah population survey undertaken in 1971.
The IFTF claim that the results of this survey led to them
introducing a voluntary ban on these species and they even

go as far as stating that they were the prime movers in
establishing the Washington Convention in 1973 protecting all
endangered species:

It is glaringly obvious that the token gestures to the IUCN

in the form of funds is just a clever excercise in public
relations. How is it possible that the most powerful conservation
organisation in the world is taken in by this ploy and amasingly,
has admitted the IFTF as an IUCN member in the non-governmental
organisations category. It is interesting to note that the
acceptance of the environmental group GREENPEACE as an IUCN
member was beset by controversy and delay,but the IFTF was

voted in easily by IUCN councellors with a two thirds majority!

My limited investigation into the Greek fur industry undertaken
in May/June 1985 while on a three week vacation in that country
shows categorically that the Greeks who play a powerful role

in the international fur trade operations are:

a. trading in the skins of endangerd species

 




/ endangered species

b. issuing false documentation in order that garments made
from skins of endangered species are able to be admitted

into countries party to the CITES agreement

0. giving false and misleading information to customers as to

the true origins of pelts.

The essence of the Greek fur industry is its ability to work
the off cuts of skins and a number of coats I saw were
manufactured from these such as belly skins from the jaguar
which is commonly utilised. I was unable to ascertain where
the original complete skins are being used but this matter

poses many interesting questions and is worthy of an investigation.

That the International Fur Trade Federation is able to get away
with this deception when its flagrant violations are displayed
Openly in Greece for all to see, this together with its recent
acceptance as a member of the IUCN, makes a complete mockery

of the conservation cause!

Christine Berry (Mrs)
Managing Trustee

References:

'Rhodes Tourist June 1985
Skandinavia Furs Rhodes Greece

Stergi Furs Rhodes Greece

Miroyannis Furs Athens Greece

”Make mine mink" Forbes May 1985

IUCN bulletin April/June 1985

IUCN bulletin October/December 1984

Letter to Cape Times 4.9.84 from L Derber, Chairman of 81A Fur
Trade Association.

Personal correspondence to C Berry from L Derber.

 




EARTH wATca Bx SAHABAT ALAM MALAYSIA
FOR use IN THE SUNDAY'SIAR, 27.1.1985

A JUMBOeSIZED HEAnAcaszaLaPHANTs on DEVELOPMENT

 

if

Land development has been one of the cornerstone of develogmnt
and economic policy in Malaysia. This has resulted intthe clearing of vast
areas of forests. The inevitable consequence of forest clearing on such a
large scale must be a conflict with the envimmnent. The Asian elephant, as
the largest/mega: vociferous and widest-ranging manual of. the Malaysian forest,
has become the most obvious element of the conflict. '

A look at reports of 'rampaging' elephants destraying farmland
indicates the extent of the conflict. For instqnce, it was reported on Tuesday
that the National Park and Wildlife Department [will undertake a series of
operations to relocate elephants from several areas in Trengganu to the National
Park.

The operations are expected to cost the Government a total of

$100,000. About 25 wild elephants are to be relocated, because the docile

animals have become a nuisance to farmers and the Government,

on 02/.

 




Another swath $1.1 million is required to move 24 elephants frun
two areas in Perak to the National Earl: State Agriwlture Committee Chaiman
Haji Khalid Nasir said that elements in Feral: have damaged crops word: $2.8 minim
in be district of 'reluk Intan alone. The list of elephants causing million of
ringgit in damages goes?3nd on. mat are the factors to be nontoxic: the situation?

Land clearance and settlement

. The develoment of vast areas of former forest has. led to the shﬂnking
and fragmentation of natural habitat and the natural confrontation between man ‘.
and the elephant. While 'hunan populations are moving into once Sparsely pOpulat-rd
areas, animals have had to move out.

Land use plannixg_

According to a report by James A.S.Blair and Nacho M. Noor,at the
International Symposiun on conservation inputs from life sciences in 1980, the
distribution of land settlement in Peninsular Malaysia has been dictated more '
by logging interest than other factors. This means that conservational issues,
or for that matter. elephant pOpulations, have been seriously taken into consideration.

Since land is handed by individual states: land develognent by Federal or
private agaxcies: and wildlife conservation and forestry are handed by separate
departments. the emergence of a 'not—my-problem' attitude is not surprising. Tais ‘
means that each agency or department is only concerned in implementing its projects
and meeting its target. This, in turn, has spelt disaster for the elephants.

'.
.6

Sri Lanka has managed to unit elephants and deVelOpment. Gigantic new
new irrigation projects need much wild land in Sri Lenka, but wildlife needs are

considered in the plans.

 




-3...

The strategy is to set up many and varied mtected areas: interlinked
with 'elephant corridors' through land development areas. There migratory corridors
allow not only elephants but other large mammals to move from one habitat to
another without encroaching into or destroying agriculture land.

In Malaysia, however, no escape route is provided. Many elephant groups
are trapped in pockets of geographical and genetic isolation. Such groups as
painted out by Blair and Noor are of little conservational value. '

w _

Tainan Negara, is perhaps, the only legislated area large enough to
cover the entire range of an elepllmttherd. This limited are allocated for
wildlife conservation means that the Department of Wildlife and National Parks

cannot develop 'contaiment' areas.

Blair and Noor pointed out that, ”It is therefore generally true to say
that due to lack of coordinated policy and of long term visionary planning,
Peninsular Malaysia is in a position of unnecessary crisis in the short term:
unnecessary in that more perceptive strategies could have reduced the elephant-
agriculture confrontation to a considerable extent, both in terns of the length
of the zone of conflict as well as vis—a-vis the size of the Opposition."

Malaysia's Current operations to relocate elephants in the National Park
may comezface to face with other problems. For instance, in late 1982, Indonesia
decided it needed to more some elephantsjﬁew transmigation settlements hear the

South Sumatra coasts were threatened by elephants herds they had displaced. Some 230
elephants were driven to a proposed National Park 50km away. But elephants have stronc
traditional ties, and half of the elephants broke through an electric fence and

headed We. .

 




Possible Solutions

There are a umber of methods available with whidl to counter or
minimise the elephant-nan conflict.

In Burma elephant are protected for practical as. well as ethical
reasons. Elephant. ate important for the. timber industry. ‘They can go places
machines can't, they cost less, and they don't need spare part. A govermnent
report on elephant described them as "mmibious, weather-proofﬁaulti-purpose,
four-legged machines.“ An estimated 5,400 domensticated elephants are vmkim
in logging operations. Each year, some wild elephants are captured to maintain
the mrking group.

A recent report that Indonesia intends to open vocational schools to
rehabilitate wild elephants testifies to the increasing importance elephants have M
played and can play an important in mird World economy and, development. Malaysia
should do well to emulate the use of elephants, especially in logging operations,
as have been done in Thailand, Burma India and srl Lenka.

It is also often suggested that zoos should be able to absord displaced
elephants. But the absorptive capacity is 10w. Even in North America, only SO
is possible, givm the long live span of elephants.

Thus, even tl'lough, the use of elephants in economic operations and the I '
absorption of there manuals in zoo can to a certain extent reduce the proportion
of wild elephants, the timbers of elephants involved is mallfcampared m the umber-s
displaced by development. '

 




 

 

-5...

There, are between Val—300 wild elementsin'Peninsular maysia,
accreding to the wildlife and National Parks Departnent. Yet, few elephant
herds today live in peace, undisturbed by hunan development: most find that their

range are taken over by agricultural schemes, especially the Federal Land Developaent
Authority (FELDA) land schemes.

The elephants retaliate by either treating the crops grown as their gun,
or destroying them. The need for barriers to the movement of wildlife can be seen
as reflective of the distmrbed enviroment. The fact that barriers, such as electric
fencing, and other physical barriers, are keeping animals out of their farmer homes I
and not in their present sanctuaries is particularly disturbing. This would mean that
the animals have to turn to crop land for food, signifying that their presents areas '
are either too small or unsuitable to support them.

what is needed now are more elephants refuges interlinked by migratory or
elephant corridors, as in the Sri Lanka example. There would provide the necessary
large expaise of areal space that can support there large male.

In the long-run, houmrer, there is need to improve long—tern planningof '
utilisation of land and of other natural resources incorporating conservational
values into the processes that underlie policy making.

If the elephants of Malaysia are not to be viewed as junbOusize headaches
and problems, and subsequently eliminated because of their 'encroacrment' into

farmland, the GOVerrmexlt of 'Malaysia must now take the necessary steps to conserve

and preserve 1:. ex: as a national wildlife heritage.

0.. ends .Ié

 




 

 

 

{01? TNI
\J"... ) A

, : 1‘7

"UL

3313C;

0
g

13$

.‘4

(h ",

7‘"
«’9 aka \v

.o“
l

’3‘
u“

.
a
:a

if) ”9- 1'

u.

9*

,Aat

i

We
he

1W

4.

.y. a. ‘. .‘u~,,— .7‘
'1E‘1gw-‘H'L *
I .\ ﬂr‘l,:.ﬁ‘.nu a. g m;

n‘
I .

 




ish-

an‘ J.
‘1!

w

ng our ban
w

.i

whose estabi

s
protectiee of
a

 

DFOQVESS

P ,-
;_ r:
ck-L.
f.
\
V

a
1.

EA .
2.4: 1

, ,3.

6"" ‘
w

I

.

8
RV
0
e
3.
m P
e. u
9 O
U
AU D. W
H .T
a
s e
W V
H r
m,“ e
; S
n
0
C

is
x.

fwyﬂ‘!‘
\V'IC': ‘7'
B

._

’

"E 3’1 f"! u ma 5

L
Li~
C,

5

ﬁx you a

.. ,\ ' I.
~ .
'v—‘x

ewe
ane
he

‘2!
.ﬁc
T
v

SEVBS
N
\r

'w? VOUY

(31‘7“
.us '

I
B.- :—

4

f

; A

k

I’
an

8
¥"'-,.
l' ‘

.\

preserve and

., .1
\ILJL‘

V
€1.13} 3"
+- ~.

a, C:

\

‘7‘ ry.
5§Lk$

DOUH

i

 




.2 . CV apt.» .Jvmlnﬂ‘cq
{*0 Pay? 0 haw. i WP . W0.

 

 

 

xﬁ§§2\ QEN

 

w»? We»? €92 US$03 gage? wa oUC FCZCCZi 55,2 ZCS. #113702.” oV.mmo 3: 1—1182 NAmNm

W 7P.Gr...0f.. Mt? .

E? On... 7:. FF \

an c? «is; r +95 r,“
Ala/T. E}? ﬁiﬁKﬂ/V. Pfhmrd

«a? .U ﬁx iornwrrﬁny » n3 war 95 .U

V , .. P. v
n; . \VLCf n. ((1‘an OI; «IWIKWF/V v; rrx/xr (IV fhKJ

‘34? a, 3/?» p. wimpy/a w?»

rwmarecju «(a ,{rawrzrr mV ar p; .w%
(kéiﬂzév\ rd V96 nkLHhs.\ ;U rug

9%? arm? can: MT} barn. 752%

1 ..'.i

ﬂZ/V/VO PP? ﬁgﬁw ZVWO .oﬁlxi . 6 (. n09 hqu #n\

dang moan =o§m

 

 

 




(area 81» F? ...3.Tdr.b 7...». £de mxmb J. ark...
rd G77.» «(are K» tap; tot/up?» {arr 0.9»,
{Dub/k 7rd Pei/P rd ..‘.WF<£P» & fat,

r15? \ Cb En Yip». CroanV TM%»C _
PLMLn56PrJ .7 jury/Z, 0.3“ 33 9/ fr? u
are, mﬂrr \ 90 an .3 Ta; rant. tar T
(bf 7d “61,7? u rﬂrrtbr re rrbcf Wtr € .2
(a? $me 7???? aria? Md 30/?

.t.» yzﬁfotrb 7» 3U Wat/k Jar/z .

.. uw my?» Fer, re rider abc 3d Pry
DWI/JFK» ttrrL far!» 0.7.! Gob/b) J17 rd Ob P0
P.b ntbdfdbrvt Pratt .5 we»? CL?» 27»
Filmy ‘U. 0(er arm/r r/ﬁrwn mu?» bk???» nhPor
Or ,7. Ltd, f For 4%be rKﬂLd ﬁrénhtb U
#5,».ng r/dkw 75% r55 0.; (Ln 9K Loﬂﬁrnf
,, rrrttf .,, W?£Aﬂ»ﬁ¢ S as .anr 05
@124. .f/n Ti .. fragru mixer .47» £772.,
@rtekmbm Ebb?» \ Orrbr C/{Kur {at WHPFVL w?
Dew £042? a», ﬁr Fr

sz fr? >13 ff,

 




    

 

OBSERVED BIRD CATCHING

 

IN CYPRUS, SPRING 1985.
3

During a two weeks stay in Cyprus from 25 March to 6 April
1985 I looked for bird catching activities on the Paralimni
peninsula east of Ayia Napa in the south—eastern part of Cyprus.
This was just the time of the arrival of the first individuals
of several migratory species in Cyprus on their way north. During
my stay I found a good deal of bird liming, but no use of mist
nets was observed.

I used six mornings looking for lime-sticks in the area east
of Ayia Napa, near Cape Greco, during the two weeks. Lots of
lime-sticks were found, and totally 17 limed birds:

1 Wryneck, Jynx torquilla

 

Blackap, Sylvia atricapilla

 

Lesser Whitethroat, Sylvia curruca

 

Pied Flycatcher, Ficedula hypoleuca

 

Wheatear, Oenanthe oenanthe

 

Pied Wheatear, Oenabthe pleschanka

 

Redstart, Phoenicurus phoenicurus

 

mgpmgmg

Nightingale, Luscinia megarhynchos

 

As mentioned, several migratory birds arrived in Cyprus
during the two weeks, and the density of birds seemed to increase
towards the end of my stay. Also the liming activity seemed to
increase, with a peak in the weekend 30-31 March (6-8 bird catchers
observed). The first limed bird, a Pied Flycatcher, was found
27 March, and 10‘birds-were-foun -on 5 April.

Most of the lime—sticks were placed in bushes (1-1,5 m high),
but some were also put up in open fields. The lime—sticks were
either placed out in the evening or in the early morning hours,
and normally the bird catchers collected them again before lunsh
time. In one case a lime-stick remained at the same spot for
several days (probably forgotten). A Wheatear got caught on this
lime-stick, and the bird was still alive, hanging head down,
after two days.

One of the bird catchers brought two children with him for
two mornings. So, the young generation obviously get their
education!

Seventeen limed birds was not a very big number to be found

   

 

  




 

during a two weeks period, but the bird catchers certainly got

a much higher number of birds. I did not have the same possibility
as them to check the lime-sticks, of cause. Even if the number
og limed birds found was not very high, the limed birds were a
sad sight. Most of the birds were hanging head down, and many
of them had got their wing-feathers, tail-feathers and body-
feathers sticked to the lime-stick. As mentioned a Wheatear was
hanging like this alive for at least two days. Another Wheatear
was found hanging head down from a small (a few mmg) lump of
glue on a normal twig. Probably a lime—stick had been fastened
to this twig, and the small lump of glue was left there. This
clearly show how sticky the glue on the lime-sticks is.

During my stay in Cyprus I took several pictures, both slides
and black and white, and they clearly indicate the suffering of
the birds.

Sm.

Steinar Eldo‘

   

. Norway

   




II
C

_/

Translatipn from Dutch daily newspaper 'TROUW', 29 September 1985

[Photo caption] "If I don't shoot it, my neighbour will."

20 million migratory birds die annually.

Greek Cypriots still shoot at anything and everything that flies
by a Staff Correspondent

The large—scale hunting of migratory birds in the Mediterranean
has been a great worry to many nature conservationists for years.
One place where distressing slaughtering activities are still
being carried out is the Greek part of Cyprus.

According to the latest figures by researchers, 20 million birds
are killed here annually. Migratory birds are not only threatened
by 45,000 hunters with guns, but also by the growing numbers of
mistnets and the many lime-sticks. Many of the birds killed on
Cypruslunmaprotected status on the island. One problem is the
poor ability of the hunters to identify species, as well as a

a lack of self-control: "If I don't shoot it, my neighbour will."

One of the places where dozens of hunters gather daily in the spring
is salt lake Akrotiri. Officially only turtle doves can be hunted
during this period, but in practice everything which flies over—
head is in danger of being shot at. Including protected bird
species such as the Wood Sandpiper and the Black—winged Stilt.
Shooting from cars also takes place although this is illegal.

_The police are slow to follow up reports of illegal shooting,
and appear to be ineffective. This became apparent during the
reporting of a shooting of the protected bird the Pratincole.
British ornitholOgists on the island urge the reporting of such
cases. However, after nearly four hours of tiresome explanations,
after driving to and fro between several police stations, and
after Visiting the site with the police, they still did not
issue a warrant. This despite the fact that the identity of the
hunter was known to them. The results of the enquiry were to
be sent to us but have still not been received.

Berne Convention

-If it were up to the International-Council for Bird Preservation
(ICBP) there would be a speedy end to these practices. This
autumn an ICBP delegation will visit Cyprus for discussions with
its Cyprus NatiOnal Section. The Dutch ICBP staff member
Wim Verheugt will be one of the delegation.

 

ICBP, which has its headquarters in Cambridge, is represented in
over 100 countries in organisations which are, each in their own
way, concerned with the environment. ICBP has been active in
working for wider ratification of the Berne Convention by
European states which are members of the Council of EurOpe.

Aim of the Convention is the protection of habitats in Europe
which are important for one or more of the listed 119 plant and
410 animal species. The latter category consists primarily of

bird species.

The Convention, which also aims to drastically reduce hunting
of birds, was signed by Cyprus in 1979, but has still not been
ratified. This did take place in 1982 for five other countries,
including the Netherlands, which put the Convention into force.

/2

 




Up to the present, twenty countries have ratified the Convention.
It is notable that Italy and Greece, two countries which have a
bad reputation in bird protection just like Cyprus, did however
ratify.

Methods of capture

 

ICBP has earlier carried out protest actions against bird—killing
on Cyprus. Cyprus was not totally insensitive to such notice,

as was apparent in the call of the President to ban the import

of lime-sticks and mistnets. Furthermore he urged that the
existing nature prOtection laws must be strictly adhered to.

The Cypriot Government even made itself financially responsible
for the publication of a bird booklet which was written with the
assistance of ICBP for educational purposes. It has been written
in Greek, the teaching—medium, but Cypriot bird names are also
given.

According to Verheugt it is quite possible that Cyprus might
still ratify the Berne Convention this year, in the face of the
impending Visit by conservationists. As the number of birds

which are protected has drastically increased, this will result

in the banning of a large number of hunting implements and methods.
How far such a banning order will mean an effective guarantee for
the safety of the tens of millions of birds which visit the island
each year, remains to be seen. Considering the ever increasing
numbers of tourists Visiting Cyprus, the effect will certainly be
greater than the tourist boycott which a number of bird protection
organisations called for some time ago.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

VICBP

2190 Hunting-don Road
Cambridge CBB ODL
Great Britain

.0»... a...

 

 

 

WV/ea
Mr Adrian Akera~Douglae
Coordinator
Friends of the Earth
PO Box 3628
Nicosia
Cyprus r1 ﬂebruary 1986

GALLEY 0F AWI QUARTERLY
Dear Adrian,

i am a little bit worried about your recent publication {M”
The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly. Patrick Allen, editor
of this magazine, passed no a cepy of your galley.

I have eincere doubts on the positive line of the article.
Are we really sure that we have won the battle over the mass
destruction of migratory birds? Certainly, if this is the
case, I would be delighted to ace auch articles produced, to
urge readers to send letters of congratulation to the Cypriot
Government.

However, during both the spring and autumn 1933 migrations,
several ICE? observers saw shooting activity. Jaap Taapken,
editor of the Dutch publication Vogeljaar, reported that mist~
note and limeeticke were still being used, although these
activities are now carried out furtively.

steinar Eldoy, chairman of ICE? Norway, showed evidence of
mietnetting activities with a range of photographs. I attach
some of these reports for your information. These are only tuo
of the reports to mention.

Another proof of the apathetic government attitude towards
conservation is the unnecessary long delay in its ratification
of the Berne Convention. There is certainly a long way to go
before the situation in Cyprus will swing favourably for
conservation.

Your message could well undermine the campaign launched in
1984 by 603 and other Cypriot organisations to bear continued
pressure on the government on this issue.

Although I appreciate very much the FOE Cyprus activities, I
am afraid that thin is rather an opportunistic approach, an
much so if you claim all the credits for the stunning victory
for Foﬁ only. /

 




 

i
l

‘9‘” 1C5

I I I \ v2 (r

:3 {“3 I

a .. . .5
.’ I...“ 1...

 

.. ....—..._-—... WN-».--_. u...» - . . . ... “new,“ . ...... ..,

z/CY/B
WV/es

Mr Bill Oddie
31 Heath Hurst Road
London NW3 20 February 1986

CYPRUS BIRD-KILLING ACTIVITIES
Dear Bill,

I very much appreciate your support for the ICBP Migratory Birds
Programme. I read your information on Cyprus with much interest.
However, I am inclined to wait until this summer with congratu-
lating the Cypriot government.

Unlike FoE, ICBP's national section the Cypriot Ornithological
Society, has reported on several occasions that bird-liming and
netting are still common practice, although it is done more
furtively.

The ICBP fact-finding missions by Jaap Taapken and Guns van Duin
during the spring of 1985 independently stated that shooting of
every bird species is continuing. Their reports resulted in
headlines in a leading Dutch newspaper, TROUW (29.9.85), see
attached clipping with a translation. Steinar Eld¢y, chairman
of ICBP Norway, included in his report a set of slides showing
the cruel evidence of Black-caps caught on limesticks. I enclose
a report on his mission for your information.

During my visit in October 1985, I witnessed shooting parties
already whilst descending the stairs of the aeroplane: Happy
Landing!

I'm afraid it is rather a long way to go and far too premature
to celebrate victory. I don't understand Adrian's policy in
this matter. After 14 months of promises, the government still
has to ratify the Berne Convention, an important wildlife treaty
concerning the conservation of migratory birds.

Clearly, we need to monitor the situation intensively during
Spring 1986, and if necessary, ICBP will not shrink from leading
an international protest campaign to further the cause of con-
servation in this beautiful country.

Kind regards, Yours sincerely,

cc D Bashford Wim Verheugt
P NeOphytou Coordinator
P Allen Migratory Birds Programme

 




 

 

'." i“:- Z. p .
‘ ‘_ ”I“? ftiﬁ;.:,.y>¢,uatzz.‘. -

. _.. <4- » w~_uw-..~ammu_.v..«mun. ,

 

 

0U WANT TO KNOW

how much Americans

love their national parks?

To ﬁnd out. all we’d have

to do is close down Yo-

semitee-even for a day“

and you'd hear a whoop

and a holler unlike any
protestthiscountry hascvcrwrtnessed

William Penn Mott .lr.. the passion-

ate. obsessively devoted director of the

National Park Service since May, likes

to raise a few eyebrows when he talks.

But is he r-ally considering closing

some of the parks“? Can you- imagine

driving all day to Yosemite. only to find

a blocked gate with a sign saying:

“Cl OSED UNTIL FURTHER NO-

l‘ lC l “"
The truth is that Americans are all

but loving their national parks to death ‘

Accordion z.ly Mott warns “Short ofto-
tal closure ot some parks, many ol the
activities we once took for granted in
them must be restricted inevitably. or
the sheer crush of yearly visitors will
destroy the very resources that make
each park worthwhile visiting."

it the parks can be saved. Mott will
be their savior. 'At a time when most
men have long since retired or slowed
down. Bili Mott at 76 is tackling the
most difficult and exhausting job of his
50 yearcareerasapublic servant. Com—
ing to the \..,,t)()t) position at- the Na-
tional D ark Service. whichhas long been
noted for timid and undynamic leader—
ship, he is considered by park employ-
ees and environmental groups to be a
welcome breath of fresh air in an crstwhi lc
stagnant bureaucracy within the Depart-
ment of the interior.

“Most Americanswand that includes
the politicians—don‘t really know what
the National Park Service is and what
its mission is " says Mott. “Educating
the public is one of the lirst items on my
agenda“

Most people don't realize. forexample.

that the National Park Service operates
and manages more than just the 48 des-
ignated National Parks like Yosemite,
Yellowstone and Grand Canyon. Within
the 79.5 million-acre system. there are
337- units categorized under such no-
menclature as National Monument.
Preserve. Lakeshore. Memorial. Park-
way. Historic Site. Battlefield and Trail.
And there is at least one National Park
unit in every state except Delaware.

Protecting the nation’s natural wonders
and its resources seems nothing short of
a management nightmare for Mott when
you consider that. last year. 248 million

people visited the various park properties. _

An increase of 3 percent was expected
this year. but by June i985 there already
had been a whopping ll million more

 

 

 

“When in doubt,
we must err on
the side at
preservation,"
says 85!! Matt,
standing here
in Grand Teton
National Park,
Wyoming. One
of Mott’s chief
goals is to
preserve and
protect the
nations! parks
for Mum
generations.

 

BY MlCHAELS. LASKY

 

 

 




 

 

L

this rapidly expanding popularity is that
10 parks now require reservations for
their campsites at least three months in
advance for a first-choice date. Visitor
overﬂow has led to many other prob-
lems for the parks. For example:

0 Up to 20.000 people a daynow stam-
pede around Old Faithful in Yellow—

and creating a haze of air pollution.
0 On a typical Memorial Day weekend,
up to 60,000 cars enter Yosemite Valley.
where there are only 5000 parkingspots.
OAt Jewel Cave ' ._
National Monu-
ment in South Da-
kota. a single ele-
vatorbuilt some 50
years ago can take
only 25 people at
a time into the cave.
A two-hour wait is
usual for one ofthe
25 daily tours. ' ' -'
Oln I978. the National Park Service
was forced to set a quota on the number
of people rafting 0n the Colorado River
in the Grand Canyon. ln l965. fewer
than 600 people had gone rafting on the
river. Just to years later. 15,000 were
floating through the canyon. On some
days, you could walk across the river—-
there were so many rafts on it.

Besides overcrowding. most of the
major threats that reduce the quality of
the experience we have in a park, as
well as deplete its irreplaceable natural
resources. come from controllable
sources outside the park boundaries:

0 Air pollution. including acid rain. is
harming plant and animal life even at
some of the remotest parks. The Park
Service has identified 20 units in its
system in which air pollution has cut
the once-crystal-clear visibility of the
. picturesque vistas. At Virginia’s Shen-
- andoah National Park. for example, visi-

torsusedtobeable - . . , .
to see the Wash-
ington Monument.
l00 miles away.
from some points.
Today. visitors are
lucky to be able to
see from one ridge
to another on the
clearest days.

O Proposed geo~ . "
thermal drilling just outside the border
of Yellowstone maytap the very energy
supply that keeps Old Faithful working.
, it is entirely possible that the drilling

 

 

lair mum" (‘ump

 

 

l

i
= t
i
l

Bmltm l. “mufﬁn ('ump

 

i will disrupt or totally stop the geyser's
dazzling eruptions.

i 0‘ Many parks” rare plants. animals. and
archeological and historic artifaets are

being poached. “
0 Mining. drilling and water diversions
5 in or near parklandsare destroying the
delicate ecosystems that support the nat~

'al beauty‘we seek there. ‘

'rban encroachment on park borders
scant unsightly and dangerous wa-

than by the previous June. The result of

stone. jamming acres of parking lots

 

ter pollution in some parks.'including
the unique underground river that flows
in Mammoth Cave National Park in
Kentucky.

Fortunately. Mott is a workaholic who
has established a reputation for accom-
plishing goals before he’ll quit. During
his tenure as director of the California
State Department of Parks and Recreation
under Gov. Ronald Reagan ”967-75).
Mott was offered the very job he now
holds. But he refused it.

‘ “I told Washington that l felt l hadn't
completed the work I’ was appointed to
do in California."

saw :‘rt; 1
says Mott.

Mott’s work in

California's parks
was cltz-mtctenzed by

 

i auing the grizzly must be elevatéf-i  }
. . ' _-. .5.”

to the level ofa national campaign, ;
Mott insists. ‘If we can’t save‘tht?

' bears, we may not be able to save ourselves... <

A —‘-I.-
‘- vrf'

 

years and has lived in the same house in

Orinda. Calif. for 49 years.
California living is so ingrained in

Mott thateven now in Washington. DC .

he keeps his watch on Paciﬁc time- He

lives in a rented apartment within walk~
ing distance to his office at the lntcrior
Department. What he misses most are

 

 

 

.' ,
.- -' ., f x
’ - “'1 i“ , i
". 1 ,
I ‘. .. " .
,A i .
I A t
' .I 1
., ~ . .
“o r . a "'
.. , - n
,1 f g r
. .1... " , . . a . ,» . ._
r t. . . . v r r . .. .
~ J

 

innovation and fierce

fatherlike protection

ofnatural resources.

While he was there.

the state’s parks dou-

bled in size. He pioneered the hiring of

women as state park rangers despite

strong internal and external opposition.

And when dogs were f ound to be causing

sanitation and nuisance problems in the

parks. he instituted an unprecedented

50 cent entrance fee for them to raise
additional maintenance revenue.

Although born on Mott Street (no

connection) in New York City. he was.

raised in Philadelphia. After earning

his master‘s degree from the University

of California at Berkeley. Mott remained

in the San Francisco Bay area. He has

been married to the same woman for Sl

nurse 0 MEMBER 24, 1985 ' “GE 5

 

Overcmdingat
national parks,
evidenced by
' threesomes
at Yosemite,
threatens
' resources,
wildlife and
environntent.
3 -.~ - Atcomer,
‘ caribou}:
: .‘ antlers frame
Mt. McKinley
ln Alaska.

 

 

 

 

. - l . .
'.'\- .v,‘ r‘ ,-“ ‘ jury aﬂwzginvrp '
. {a . \ .

‘ - '7‘»: ti “'5“
' ~ w

is
2 my. a

one?“ -

'aiu Mr 8....

 

his gardening. time for a vigorous game
oftennis and his wife. Ruth. who elected
not to move to Washington but to main~
tain their house and garden. (His two
sons also live in California: William
lll. an agricultural economist in Marin
County: and John. a ranger at Henry

,Cowell Redwood State Park in Santa

Cruz. His daughter. Nancy. died ofcan-
cer in l981.)

Bill Mott‘s ancestors were French.
When the family settled in America in
the 19th century. there were three clans.
One went to upstate New York and bc~
came famous for its applesauce and ap-
ple juice: (mother went to New York
City and became known as major stock-
holders in General Motors .~ “M y branch
of the family were the poor ones in
agriculture." says Mott. Poor or not.

 

thev instilled in him 3 tenacious Sill”
The director of the National WW5"
vice is a plucky Johnm’ Appleseet tit!
Harry Truman who sees things at y.
wrong and sets out to COI‘TCL‘! tilt.
expeditiously as possible. To M0,; ,
time-consumin g pomp and circurnitg t
that he would endure arriving in 3,3,1“
car. for example. Mo'tt prefers to: l
car and travel to parks as a low~r ;
“visitor” and observer. That way"
feels. he can identify problems
hand and solve them quicker. 1 ’;
“Once. while l was at Yak-mat
he says. “I saw a mother tr). to '3')
3‘ycar—old on a wild buffalo 45;;
she could take a souvenir g'séctt
stopped her and told her. ‘That’s .3.
animal. You can't do tlhat.’ What: 5"
from urban areas don't realize if
these are not Walt Disney crtsnnittt
wild animals. We are going to m:
techniques to effectively gcrggith
tion to visitors as they first. on .\
parks. . .1
"W 3 job. ”9 Hm}. Wig:
.1- -. .\ . . any pron‘ttse.“sit~i¢
' i " dbtoutgiyssm the l all
llOnal Pat-i; Sifttcf:
a larger budget to g» t
the. lmﬁﬂl‘t’c'l'f"; ti . i
Wanted to soaks? . ' y
educating n2: a; g
“C and ~“-(j'xt'tgtt.’
about what we at? my
and why. an: {i'mill'f'
' . * gather the t'lt'flg't‘ff‘l v
support. lvmuld suspect that. ,4 3 or;
to ask you what we're spendig-gg, m ; my!“
tain Yosemite or Yellowstone» voi
wouldn't know. The public doesn't ;. iimVJ:
We are going to tell them win: it “35:33
‘0 d0 these jobs and What we annually.
have. and I think they wilt re-pondg
Each Congressperson who has a park in
his or her district will get a stator report
on it every six months. Up to now. they.
have received no information iike this
from us. . -
“With the newly raised entrmcr fees
and emergency money providetl by Con-
gress. we have been able mgr"! a. lot of
the accumulated deterioration i tied. par“
ticularly the water and sewer lines. clec~
tricity and ancient wiring. These basrc'
repairs had been neglected. and it took. a.
billion dollars to get things back in sham."
Raising money from the private sector.
through grants from corporadéons. is one
innovative route Mott wan‘ls the Rim
Service to try. “There are very few fed
eral agencies that are allowed bylaw to .
l continued i

l

l

B/mr' H all”!!! ( ump

 




 

, -' ’.. - ,,Ii:. ,1: l . . . [2" ~ 4' -' ’
I, . a, L, . nu}. .15 :- Ugly-Alumni..“;;i;.;“.«‘- ,.;'1' ~n"'l“"',

- natural andhistorical objects and wildlife
therein unimpaired for the enjoyment
of future generations,m says Mott “l
take that as my gospel. .

“As stewards, we must not and should
not use up the resource or diminish its
value. When in any doubt, we must err
on the side of preservation." But he
adds, “Of course, should we subsequently
ﬁnd ourselves wrong. we can always
prowde for more public use. L
. “The parks are America's universi~
ties Without walls. Not only can daily

Visitors learn from them, but scientists
and researchers are only just tapping
the potential ofwildlife in them. We are
preservmg within the parklands reserv .
gene pools for future research. 1 just got
a note on my desk about an amazing
fungus that was found in Pinelands Na?
tional Reserve in New Jersey which can
absorb DDT and other dangerous chem-
icals. if that park was nottthere and

geiszlopmeéit had'been allowed on the

n instea ,wou d - t "
been made? this discovery have

“An armadillo found in one of the
parks was discovered to have the very
antibodies that can stop leprosy. How
do we know that there isn’t some rare
plant or animal in the parks that has the
needed chemical to eradicate some in-
curable disease'.’ ‘ '

 

cationbetween the different govemment
agenCies," Mott contends. "Sometimes
all the good the Park Service does can
be wrped out in a single action bv an-
other agency whose particular mission
is in conflict with our objective. When I
have talks with other departments, 1 am
governed by one unforgettable fact: The
land does not belong to individual bu-
reaus of govemment. It belongs to the
people of the United States. i
“If you sit down and talk with people.
l have found. there are always areas you
can agree on. lt’s important to take care
of the things that you agree on first.
because it makes it easier to solve the,
issues you disagree on. You don‘t solve
problems in confrontation. You do it
through conversation and negotiation.
.‘Forinstance. we’re going to talk
With the people who fly helicopters and
planes in and over the Grand Canyon.
We now have more than l00.000 flights
a year. We‘re going to have to limit
them, because the noise and disturbances .
they create are taking away from the
beauty and quiet we are preserving. That
is going to be a confrontation unless we
can get some understanding. They are
making money but at the price of every-
body else's enjoyment.”

Mott admits that some of the Park
Semce’s problems are too vast to solve.
But he adds. "I'm an optimist. I think
the Job can get done. l never say die. .

“1 here has got to be more communi- ,_

 

 

 

 

Americans love their parks too much to
lose them. We’ll give them the facts.-
be it about ﬁnances, acid rain or overde-
velopmentmand they will help us pre-

 

 

M.

Ktu; «. us...“ it. . .- win: ”0;, =‘..:: :"N‘i'w “t" ’
" >.v,:lbx".“2:wLara-4'2““ “i ”"5“ sh" "1"" , "" “WM-5*" ‘ <- 4"? .

ranks/continued V -' ”

solicit donations. We are. and we will»
if that’s what it’s going to take to get ti:
funds we need,” hedeclares. . y a p

it was primarily through organiza
tions outside the government that mor
ey was raisedto buy the land for whit
may become the newest addition to th
park system, the proposed Tallgrass Prai
rie in northeast Oklahoma. ' _ ' q " ‘j_‘
“Did you know that nearly} eVer;
tallgrass prairie in the United States hi“:
been wiped out?" asks Mott. “Tiles
were the types of prairies to which th
westward pioneers settled or passe.
through. They represent what the Mid
west frontier was like before it Wu
developed.” . s a , "
Another area of opportunity is Alas.
ka. where the nation’s largest nationa
park—~Wrangell-St. Elias, with 13.4 mil
lion acres—was established in 1982
“Here we have a chance to do it rigla
from scratch so the parks don‘t fall vic
tim to the problems now facing the one
in the lower 48 states,” says Mott. W
must get a plan to manage the parks ”1
there based on solidresearch and no
create research from predrawn plans, a

{/1135 been done in the other parks.”

Mott’s “No. l duty’f right now. rheugh
is Saving the grizzly bears in Yellow
stone from extinction. it is estimate.
that only 300 bears remain. of whicl
just 30 are cub«bearing females.

“The grizzly bear is one of America‘
last remaining great symbols of the wilt.
beauty of our nation. We absolutelj.
cannot stand idly by and permit the los-
of this magniﬁcent animal. The saving
-of thegrizziy must be elevatedto‘ thi
level of a national campaign. If we can‘;
save the bears we may not be able it
save ourselves," Mett inSists. an emo
tional quiver in his voice. "

“if it means ripping up a campgrouni;
near a grizzly habitat and moving it [t
the otherside of the park-then that‘;
what We will do. even if concession
aires complain that we’re taking a a;
their profits. You can always find nev.
business. but you’ll never get the g ' zlie:
back from extinction.“ . _

H Trained in landscape architecture a;
\Michigan State and then at Berkeley.
Mott began his park career in l933 as a
landscape architect for the National Part.
Service in San Francisco. From 1940
to 1962, he was'superintendent of parks,
in Oakland. Calif, where he gained
national prominence for reshaping the
city with parks to enhance the quality 0:
life. He continued to manage regional
parks in northern California --_-with that
out. as a parks consultant to Australia
and Costa Rica-until he was appointed
National Park Service director. .

Yet, with all this experience, the first
thing Mott did when he took ofﬁce war.
to read the jaw written back in l9l6 thai
established the National Park Service

“What struck me immediatelyg

 

 

 

rave and protect them. You‘ll see.” 1

l
V

x

"“lGHINE - NOVEMBER 24, 1935 . PAGE 7"

 

 

‘\ I the phrase ‘to leave the scenery at” _

"mascoumznznwtm"

 




  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
 

For decades, public and private organi-
zatiOns have waged a massive campaign to
disCOurage cigarette smoking. For most of
that time, the target of this effort has been
the smoker.

Recently however, the emphasis has

1; saennsts who claim that cigarette smoke
‘ the a1r can actually cause disease in
.- smokers We hear a great deal about
’ ‘ 'f‘j‘ji’ond— hand smoke” and‘ ‘passive

t-§;_'ut 18 this new approach wholly moti-
. 1;, by concern for the non-smoker, or is
same old war on smoking 1n a new

' ‘ ., , ese doubts are raised when we re-
statements like the following, by a

‘ sperson for the American Lung
Assoclatlon

PmbablV the only an we can VV- in a substan-
-443 tlal reduction [in smoking] 15 if we can somehow
make 1t nonacceptable sociallV... .We thought the
_[{§ . scare of medical statistics and opinions would '
-. a produce a major reduction. It reallV d1dn t

  

Obviously, one way to make smoking
5;, nonacceptable socially” would be to sug-
' st that second—hand smoke could Cause
sease. So it is not surprising that we are
_ Vilnow seeing a ﬂurry of research seeking sci-
7,‘7¢ént1ﬁc support for these suggestions.

 
   
  

   
   
 

The second hand;

smoke screen.

undergone a major shift Today there are '

LU. Reynolds Tobacco Company

 

Many independent experts believe the
scientific evidence on passive smoking 18
questionable. But a zealous group of anti-
smokers are us1ng thls 1ssue 1n the1r cam-
pa1gn aga1nst tobacco as 1f the dams were
estabhshed sc1ent1f1c fact. ‘

We deplore the actions of those who try
to manipulate pubhc 0p1mon through scare
tact1cs. As the late, respected pathologist,
Dr. H. Russell F1sher, stated 1n test1mony
submitted to a Congressmnal hearmg on
pass1ve smokmg;

... l l '] 11 the absence of my scientific proof of
harm from atmospheric tobacco smoke. we are
dealing with a social question and not a medical
one. In this regard it should be noted that, since
fears and phobias can lead to ill health. those who
urge policies based on fear and not scientific
facts could be making a medical problem out of a
social one. This is indeed a strange prospect to
see coming from the efforts of members of the
medical profession.

We are not ignoring the fact that ciga-
rette smoke can be bothersome to many
non-smokers. But we beheve thls problem
15 best solved not by governments but by
1ndiV1duals, and not mth more rhetonc but
more common sense and courtesy.

Of course, 1f ant1—smokmg advocates
want to work for the abol1t10n of smokmg,
that 1s the1r nght. We only w1sh they would
come out from behind their second-hand

smokescreen.

     




 

 

ll

: Director William Penn MO” is 76’ but he’s going like 60

 

0U WANT TO KNOW

‘how much Americans

love their national parks?

To ﬁnd out". all we’d have

to do is close down Yo-

semitewe ven for a day-~~-~-

and you'd hear a whoop

and a holler unlike any

protest this country has ever witnessed

William Penn Mott Jr. the passion~
ate, obsessively devoted director of the
National Park Service since May. likes
to raise a few eyebrows when he talks.

But is he really considering closing
some of the parks? Can you imagine
driving all day to Yosemite. only to find
a blocked gate with a sign saying:
“CLOSED UNTIL FURTHER NO~
T ICE”?

The truth is that Americans are all
but loving their national parks to death.
Accordingly. Mott wams. “Short ofte-
tal closure of some parks, many of the
activities we once took that granted in
them must be restricted inevitably. or
the sheer crush ot‘yearly visitors will
destroy the very resources that make
each park worthwhile visiting."

 

if the parks can be saved. Mott will

be their savior. At a time when most
men have long since retired or slowed
down. Bill Mott at 76 is tackling the
most difficult and exhausting job of his
50-year career as a public servant. C om—
ing to the. 572000 position at the Na-

tional Park Service. which has long been .

noted for timid and undynamic leader—
ship. he is considered by park employ—
ees and environmental groups to be a
welcome breath of fresh air in an erstwhile
stagnant bureaucracy within the Depart-
ment of the interior.

“Most Americansmand that includes
the politicians~~—don‘t really know what
:the National Park Service is and what.
its mission is." says Mott. "Educating
the public is one of the first items on my
agendaf‘

Most people don‘t realize. for example.
that the National Park Service operates
and manages more than just the 48 des—
ignated National Parks like Yosemite.
Yellowstone and Grand Canyon. Within
the 79.5 million-acre system. there are
337- units categorized under such no-
menclature as National Monument.
Preserve, Lakeshore. Memorial. Park-
way, Historic Site. Battlefield and Trail.
And there. is at least one National Park
unit in every state except Delaware.

Protecting the nation’s natural wonders
and its resources seems nothing short of
a management nightmare for Mott when

you consider that. last year, 248 million _

people visited the various park properties.
:2”__.Ah iitcrease of 3 percent was expected
this year, but by June 1985 there already
had been a whopping ll million more

BY M—ICHAE

 

 

 

 

“When in doubt,
we must err on

thesideof "

presentation, ”
says Bill Mott,
standing here
in Grand Teton
National Park,
Wyoming. One
of Mott’s chief
goats is to
preserve and
protect the
national parks
for future
generations.

L

 

mou-mamzrmsssimrjzm »

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




     
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     

natural and historical objects and wildlife
therein unimpaired for the enjoyment
of future generations.” says Mott. “l
take that as my gospel.

As stewards, we must not and should
not use up the resource or diminish its
value. When in any doubt. we must err
on the side of preservation." But he
adds. “Ofcourse. should we subsequently
find ourselves wrong, we can always
provide for more public use.

“The parks are America’s universi-
ties without walls. Not only can daily
visitors learn from them. but scientists
and researchers are only just tapping
the potential of wildlife in them. We are
preserving within the parklands reserve
gene pools for future research. [just got
a note on my desk about an amazing
fungus that was found in Pinelands Na-
tional Reserve in New Jersey which can
absorb DDT and other dangerous chem-
icals. If that park was not there and
development had been allowed on the
land instead, would this discovery have
been made“?

“An armadillo found in one of the
parks was discovered to have the very
antibodies that can stop leprosy. How
do we know that there isn‘t some rare
plant or animal in the parks that has the
needed chemical to eradicate some in-
curable disease?

"There has got to be more communi~ .t
cation between the different government
agencies." Mott contends. “Sometimes
all the good the Park Service does can
be wiped out in a single action by an~
other agency whose particular mission
is in conﬂict with our objective. When i
have talks with other departments. l am
governed by one unforgettable fact: The
land does not belong to individual bu-
reaus of government. It belongs to the
people of the United States.

“if you sit down and talk with people.
I have found . there are always areas you
can agree on. It‘s important to take care
of the things that you agree on first.
because it makes it easier to solve the
issues you disagree on. You don‘t solve
problems in confrontation. You do it
through conversation and negotiation.

“Forinstance. we‘re going to talk
with the people who fly helicopters and
planes in and over the Grand Canyon .,
We now have more than 100.000 flights
a year. We're going to have to limit
them. because the noise and disturbances
they create are taking away from the
beauty and quiet we are preserving. That
is going to be a confrontation unless we
can get some understanding. They are
making money but at the price ofevery-
body else's enjoyment." ‘

Mott admits that some of the Park 1‘
Service’s problems are too vast to solve.
But he adds. "I’m an optimist. I think
the job can get done. l never say die. 3
Americans love their parks too much to
lose them. We’ll give them the facts——
be it about finances. acid rain or overde-
y'elopmentmand they will help us pre—
"\e and protect them. You’ll see." E]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GAZINE ' NOVEMBER 24, 1985 - PAGE 7

”I




  
  

  

 

 

:1?
‘41

.4;

.‘2
r
l
.

  
  
   
 

  
  
  
 

  
   
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

than by the previous June. The result of
this rapidly expanding popularity 15 that
it} parks now require reservations for
their campsites at least three months in
advance for a first— choice date. Visitor

‘ overﬂow has led to many other prob-

lems for the parks. For example:

.1 0 Up to 20.000 people a day now stam-

pede around Old Faithful in Yellow-

stone. jamming acres of parking lots
and creating a haze of air pollution.

0 On a typical Memorial Day weekend.

up to (10 000 cars enter Yosemite Valley.

where there are only 5000 parking spots

0 At Jewel Cave
National Morin-—
ment in South Da-
kota, a single ele-
vator built some 50
years ago can take
only 25 people at
a time into the cave

A tho-hour wait is
usual for one of the
25 daily tours

o in 1978. the National Park Service
was forced to set a quota on the number

of people rafting On the Colorado River
in the Grand Canyon. ln I965. fewer
than 600 people had gone rafting on the
river. Just )0 years later. [5.000 were

ﬂoating through the canyon. On some
days. you could walk across the river—~—
there were so many rafts on it.

Besides overcrowding. most of the
major threats that reduce the quality of
the experience we haVe in a park. as
well as deplete its irreplaceable natural
resources, come from controllable
sources outside the park boundaries:

0 Air pollution. including acid rain. is
harming plant and animal life even at
some of the remotest parks. The Park
Service has identified 20 units in its
system in which air pollution has cut
the once-crystal-clear visibility of the
picturesque vistas At Virginia's Shen-
andoah National Park forexamplc. Visi-
tors used to be able .-
to see the Wash-
ington Monument.
100 miles away.
from some points.

Today. visitors are
lucky to be able to
see from one ridge
to another on the
clearest days.

0 Proposed geo-
thermal drilling just outside the border
of Yellowstone may tap the Very energy
supply that keeps Old Faithful working.
it is entirely possible that the drilling
will disrupt or totally stop the geyser's
dazzling eruptions

oManv parks rare plants animals and
archeological and historic artilacts are
being poached.

0 Mining. drilling and water diversions
in or near parklands are destroying the
:1 elicate ecosystems that support the nat—
= l beautywe seek there.

' ban encroachment on park borders
- ant Unsightly and dangerous wa—

Blair “twill" ( "Limp

 

811111111 A “1111111111 ( 1111111

 

 

ter pollution in some parks. including
the unique underground river that flows
in Mammoth Cave. National Park in
Kentucky.

Fortunately. Mott is a workaholic who
has established a reputation for accom-
plishing goals before he’ll quit. During
his tenure as director of the California
State Department of Parks and Recreation
under (311v. Ronald Reagan (1967475).
Mott was offered the very job he 11on
holds. .But he refused it.

“i told Washington that I felt I hadn’t
Lompleted the work 1 V1 as appointed to

1 do in Calilor."nia
says Mott.

Mott‘s work in
California's parks
was characterized by

aving the grizzly must be elevated _
to the level of a national campaign:
Mott insists. ‘If we can’t save the i
bears, we may not be able to save ourselve

   

 

 

years and has lived in the same house in
Orinda. Calif” for 49 years.

California living is so ingrained in
Mott thateVLn now in Washington D C. .
he keeps his w itch on Pacific time. He
lives 1n a rented apartment within walk-
ing distance to his office at the Interior
Department. What he misses most are

 

 

 

 

 

innovation and fierce
fatherlike protection
ofnatural resources.
. g While he was there.
‘“ ' "‘ "' the state's parks dou-
bled in size. He pioneered the hiring of
women as state park rangers despite
strong internal and external opposition.
And when dogs were found to be causing
sanitation and nuisance problems in the
parks. he instituted an unprecedented
50 cent entrance fee for them to raise
additional maintenance revenue
Although born on Mott Street (no
connection) in New Yo rk City he was
raised in Philadelphia. Alter earning
his master’s degree from the University
of California at Berkeley. Mott remained
in the San Francisco Bay area. He has
been married to the same woman for 51

 

 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 

Overcrowding at
national parks,
evidenced by
three scenes
at Yosemite,
threatens
resources,

-. wildlife and
environment.
At center,
caribou’s
antlers frame
Mt. McKinley
in Alaska.

 

 

l
1
l

 

 

 

his gardening. time for a vigorous game
of tennis and his wife. Ruth. who elected
not to move to Washington but to main
tain their house and garden. (His two
sons also live in California: William
ll]. an agricultural economist in Marin
County; and John. a ranger at Henry
Cowell Redwood State Park in Santa
Cruz. His daughter. Nancy. died of can-
cer in 1981.)

Bill Mott‘s ancestors‘were French.
When the family settled in America in
the l9th century. there were three clans.
One went to upstate New York and be-
came famous for its applesauce and ap-
ple juice; another went to NeV1: York
City and became known as major stock~
holders in General Motors. “My branch
of the‘family were the poor ones in
agriculture.” says Mott. Poor or not.

 

 

they instilled in him a tL11L1L1ous ‘ ir .
The ditector of the National P:J 1&2 S 1-
vice is a pluckV' JohnnV Apples ~11 L 111
Harry lruman who sees thing's ﬁght 1e 7
wrong and sets out to count ﬂtetit as r,
expLdtttouslV as possible 111 Lit/did the
time- -consuming pomp and L 11 L uhtstzlnce/i.
that he would endure arriV ing in a staff:
car tor example. Mott prLtL1st01enta
car and travel to parks as a low pilmle
Visitor and observer. That way ' on
feels he can identify problems 111.11—
hand and soch them quicker.

“Once. while I was at Yellowstone."
he says. ”I saw a mother try to put her
3- -Vea1- old on a wild buliialo s back so
she could take a 80th m1 ' '
stopped her and told her. ‘
animal. You can t do that.’

 

these are not ‘1 falt Disney creature.
VV ild animals We are going to We} "
techniques to eltecttVelv get info
tion to visitors as they first cute} the
parks g'
When 1 took this job 1111 one Ltde .
.. any promiseéhg 1 :
about gtvmg Sin-i
tional Park 81.th th ’
a largerbudoe‘t tp L'et
the improvo'iij 111s l
wantedto 1113i” BV
educating the" p11l1~ .
lic and—To 1-1
‘ ﬁatwu
_ and why we
' " aatherthL 11LcessarV
support I VVL1ttld suspect that if I Wt R
to askVou VVhatwe re spe‘ ing 10111111111
tain \osLmitL or Yell 1.- :Stone Vou
VVouldn t know T he publtcﬁsn tktioVV.
We are going to tell thetnmzhat '11 Costs
to do these jobs and what tel/e thtuallV
have. and l think they will rLspthl
Each CongrLszLrVon who has a‘ pa 7'
his or her district will geta st'atus‘re
on 1tLVLrV six months. Up to now A

   
     

 

   
 

 

Barri-211111114111: (211111

 

and eme rgc 11c V' monev providebV C 5 7
gress. we have been able to get alo‘ _j‘ ‘
theaccumulatcd deteﬁoration tixed. i‘ .
ticularly the V rater and sewer lines. e
tricity and ancient wiring. These
repairs had been neglected. and 1t tug? ..
billion dollars to get things back in sh: f-

  

innovative route Mott wants the ‘1
Service to try "There are verv few f- f 1
eral agencies that are allowed by la: ‘ '

   

 
 

  

 

E'NUVEMBERZII, 1985’PAGES

      

LOHHHH. 1 ‘

    
       
     
     
     
  
            

  
  
 
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
 

 

 

 

  
 

   
    
      
  
   
   
  
    
    
       
  

   
      
        
 
 

 

 




  

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' 1 .-
.9 f ‘\
l '_ .

£3;

‘|,1-.-

.- .Q \ '- Is-A.
trig; "tkwgua m.

     
 
 
  

 

» it be aafpaér cigarette hyFth" '

 

SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: Smoking
By Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal
Injury, Premature Birth, And Low Birth Weight.

 

 

   

 

 

 

PAGEG'NOVEMBER24.1985-P

PARKS lean tinned

solicit donations. We are. and we will——
if that’s what it’s going to take to get the
funds we need.” he declares.

It was primarily through organiza—
tions outside the government that mon—
ey was raised to buy the land for what
may become the newest addition to the
park system, the proposed Tall grass Prai-
rie in northeast Oklahoma.

“Did you know that nearly every
tallgrass prairie in the United States has
been wiped out?” asks Mott. “These
were the types of prairies to which the
westward pioneers settled or passed
through. They represent what the Mid-
west frontier was like before it was
developed."

Another area of opportunity is Alas-
ka where the nation s largest national
park—~Wrangell- St. Elias with 13 4mil-
lion acres—was established in 1982.
“Here we have a chance to do it right
from scratch so the parks don‘t fall vic—
tim to the problems now facing the ones
in the lower 48 states.“ says Mott. “We
must get a plan to manage the parks up
there based on solid research and not
create research from predrawn plans. as
has been done in the other parks.‘

Mott‘s "No. l duty” right now. though,
is saving the grizzly bears in Yellow-
stone from extinction. It is estimated
that only 300 bears remain. of which
just 30 are cub-bearing females.

“The grizzly bear is one of America‘s
last remaining great symbols ofthe wild
beauty of our nation. We absolutely
cannot stand idly by and permit the loss
of this magnificent animal. The saving
of the grizzly must be elevated to the
level of a national campaign. if we can‘t
save the bears. we may not be able to
save ourselves." Mott insists. an emo-
tional quiver in his voice.

”if it means ripping up a campground
near a grizzlv habitat and moving it to
the other side of the park. then that},
what we will do even it concessmn-
aires complain that we re taking away
their profits. You can always ﬁnd new
business. but you‘ll never get the gn'zzlies
back from extinction."

Trained in landscape architecture at
Michigan State and then at Berkeley.
Mott began his park career in 1933 as a
landscape architect for the National Park
Service in San Francisco. From 1946
to I962. he was superintendent of parks
in Oakland. Calif. where he gained
national prominence for reshaping the
city with parks to enhance the quality of
life. He continued to manage regional
parks in northern California—with time
out as a parks consultant to Australia
and Costa Rica—until he was appointed
National Park Service director.

Yet. with all this experience. the first
thing Mott did when he took office was
to read the law written back in 1916 tha
established the National Park Servic

“What struck me immediately
the phrase ’to leave the scenery a-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
  




, 3 .3 .- . ' "
~ ,. ‘f: z .
., . . . .
.. . - 2, ,. 3' 1 ,
4 , f ,
- ,. .
. t' -

UST a few weeks ago, whilst travell-
J ing from the Air Mountains to

7. Niamey, I was caught in a blinding
sand‘storm that at times reduced visibility to
less than 20 metres. Apart from "sand-
blasting the car, the wind drove dust and
grit through the seals of both doors and
windoiNs. Soon there were drifts of sand
scuddiiig across the top of the dashboard.
My passengers and I, peppered with dust,
turned an eerie apricot hue. Presently,
streams" of tears from irritated eyes were
cutting Sinuous channels down dust- caked
cheeks.

“So What?” you might say. “Sand-
storms are nothing new in the Sahara.” But
we were not in the Sahara — we were in the
heart of Niger’s agricultural belt, a region
where one might expect 400 mm of rain a
year and from which most of the country’s
6 million inhabitants obtain their food.
Nowadays, ‘sandstorms like that occur
almost weekly. Work crews are hard put to
- keep the main roads clear of encroaching
tongues of sand. . -

More spectacular still was the dust storm
that hit Niamey, Niger’ 3 capital, a few days
later. Overnight, winds blew in a pal] of dust
that literally covered the city in tons of sedi-
ment. Visibility at 10 am. was less than 10
metres. International airflights were
diverted 1000 km to the West African coast
and the sun was obliterated for 3 days. The
day the Storm hit Niamey I paid a visit to ‘W’
National Park, some 150 kilometres to the
south. Even the aged Hima, doyen of the
park staff and born in the area, had never
seen or heard of anything like it before. A
layer of buff dust Covered everything and
only where the sonr of baboons and
elephants crossed the t-racks did the reds and
greys of the park’s soils show through.

In similar fashion, hundreds of
thousands of tons of dust are deposited on
the sub-Sahara savanhas and forests of
West and Central Africa each year. This is
not the Sahara moving south. We are talk-
ing not of sand from the ergs of the Sahara,
but of dust — rich in clays, a product of the
arable soils of the Sahel._ In a classic cycle
of abuse and overuse, th‘ie top-soils of the
Sahel are being physically destabilised
under the feet of far too; many domestic
animals and by the practice of the oppor-
tunistic type of agriculture that
characterises traditional farming
throughout the zone.

It works like this: when rain falls, millet
is planted on increasingly marginal
agricultural land. Both millet “and natural
vegetation germinate and develop. The
‘weeds’ are hoed out, destroying not only
the natural vegetative cover but also
destabilising the surface soils. The millet
dies for want of rain. At the end ofthe wet
season we have a barren, highly fragile and
disturbed piece of land, vulnerable to
Whatever erosive forces may eventUally oc-
dur — trampling, water, wind. Meanwhile
the naturally sparse tree cover is becoming
more sparse owing to overcutting, iand

anther-Mia?"

3? in?“ *4“; its “3:2

 

John Newby

_..-——-“~ -——~ —«.—

 

clearance and drought- induced natural
mortality.

These ingredients produce a really drastic
situation. All the‘ green belts’ in the world
will not stop the real desert encroaching.
But stands of natural or even planted
vegetation will enhance soil stability. They
will provide physical protection from ero-
sion and from the formation of the ‘inner
desert’ which is taking over the Sahel.

The Sahelian nations, with the "‘help""‘of
their international partners, have just spent

\ the last ten years recovering from the

l

 

increasing the number of people.

previous drought (1968—73). I wonder how
much time, effort and money have been
spent on re-establishing the state of socio-
economic and ecological disequilibrium
that existed pre- 1968? A decade later and
we are once again in the throes of drought
and famine. GOd forbid that the next ten
years be spent making the same mistakes —-
but I wouldn’t be surprised if they were. A
couple of years back the boast was that
livestock numbers had reached pre-drought
levels. Is it any wonder that today we are
faced with a situation where tens of
thousands of herders are dependent on
emergency food aid to survive?,,Does
anyone want to tackle the real probems of
the Sahel? Or do we just want to hide our
heads in the sand (there’s plenty of it and
more coming), ignoring the facts and
defending ourselves behind a plethora of
misguided and inappropriate programmes
that aim at increasing livestock, increasing
agriculture, increasing the number of wells,
The

I UCN" BULLETIN SUPPLEMENT 12.731985

the Sahel

f
a

‘Q’fnu

(ti.

‘ M. N [492.5417a’;

policies for the Sahel appear not only to be "
ecologically corrupt but more and more
aimed at total environmental bankruptcy.
Everything seems ad hoc, very little is plan-
ned, nothing is coordinated, a great deal
seems bogus and even sinister, much is
founded on a total misunderstanding and
lack of respect for the real conditions in the
Sahel —— in fact extremely little actually
works. A depressing state of affairs.

Now in my opinion —— an opinion as
bigoted, as self-sure and as simplistic as the
rest —- if the Sahel could talk it would be
screaming: “LEAVE ME ALONEW. Since
it can’t, on behalf of the Sahel I would like
to say that the best thing would be to leave
it alone. Let trees regenerate and grow in-
stead of falling to the woodcutter’s axe: let
shrubs and bushes take the brunt of the
wind’s force, freed from the pressure of
overwhelming livestock numbers. Let
natural vegetation colonise and stabilise
broken soils. Let gazelles and antelopes
return to the grasslands and not die beneath
the wheels of vehicles bought with
i‘development’“money. Let the Sahelian na-
tions face up to the truth and enforce ra-
tional and appropriate land—use policies;
policies that are based on realistic appraisal
of the land’s needs, its nature, its produc—
tivity, its carrying capacity. The medecine
will be very nasty, but necessary.

Unless some extremely hard decisions are
made, the Sahel will be forced from
purgatory of themleast-developed’: into the
everlasting hell of the “never-to-be-
developed"? 4,.» < , p. I]

'3

 

John ’Ne'w‘by has lived and worked in the
Sahel for the last 12 years.

 

 

Sahelian nomads drawing water for cattle.

Credit: WFP/FAO

 




