 

Dr. Riyley, Dallén, Christina, all my frienﬁafhera, anﬁ family w
family seemw to secupy a gcad porticn Qf tha auaienme ~~I*m vary
prcua an&.vary humbla ta b3 given this haner w it 1a a vary great
honar a and I am,sinceraly; a$sply grateful. I am alao sensitive

ta tha fact that whatever efferts I hava made and whataver successeﬁ
I'may have had in tha area which brings ua togathar 0f“wildlifa and
animal protecﬁian, anviranmgntal gmpﬁavament ganerally, has been
shared and in a very real sensa maﬁa pasgibly by my assaciates in
gavarnmant and also my fri$nds an the eutsidg of gevernmﬁnt in the
private sectar who bring a very aasential dimansion ta mutual affartﬁ
In gavernment I have ta sp9&k firat cf my awn aasaaiates in the
Cauncil an Environmental Qaality, and speaking af'whalaa I hava ta
mad to Lea Talbot, whnm.sa many 0? yen knaw, and the Dapartment of
Interior, Secretary Ebrtan, $ecratary ﬁat Read, anﬂ Buff Bdhlen,

all 01d friends and fighters fer the whﬁlaa, among athﬂrs; and the
Degartment Of'Commﬁrea, be NORA and my great.friend, Bab White, and
Bill Area, whom.I gas hara, and any other% framiﬂoaa I may net hava
noticad; and other mamberacf’tha Cabinat, indead tha President him”
self, who has, I think, given mere laaéerahip ta cur nancern far
wildlife than we hava seen far same whila; and.then, 3f courae, alas,
and mmat immortantly to cur frienda and assaciates in Congress, the

membera of Congresa, and the Gammitteas and thair ataffs, all 6f Wham

ara an integral part cf tha aucceasea and tha ﬁfforta Wﬁ have maﬁa.

And an the outaida tha many arganizatians &nd pﬁepla hare and abaaad
aha have in a senae given rise ta mar new aavirenmgntal conscience
and without which, raally, nothing wauld hava hﬁpyenad, and yeu'hﬁd

a very excellent example of what I am.talking about befgre.you a few

 

 




 

mamentg aga in ﬁbristine ﬁtevens who has been a tirelega fighter
ané an inspiration t0 all 6f us.' I think 1% is quite clearly

tha aaae that witheut citizan concern and eitizen actian, really,
ngthing wauld happan in this area. Gevarnmanta move and paliticiana
mava, bureaucrats wave, beeausa the paaple want them ta and "put the
heat ﬁﬁ” and it‘s just abaut that simple. We’re geeing this happen
arauné tha warla anﬂ I am delightad to gee $01many friands ﬂrom
ether govarnmants, mambars of the diplmmatia corps, hera bananae I
knaw they are sensitive be thia same phgnamwnan accurring in their
awn cauntries ané this i8 all to the gaod ~ and $3 I travel abroad

I am frequently asked "What is tha highest prisrity fer action in
tha enviranmental fiald?” ané I think quite atmply ‘t i3 thig ~

the araation 9f ﬁn informad and concerned ciﬁizanry. we have had
same vary real successes and even when we have net wén tha entire
battle; we have, I think, over the last very racant few yaarﬁ and
mantha, made sama vary impartant atapa ferward. Yen hava heard
abcut thg whalag;:;wghink’we 0&n bﬁ grand of the fact that the
Unit@d Staﬁas stappad whaling; tbs Unitéi Statea stepped the imparta~

tiwn 0f whale praducts inte this country, anﬁ while W6 no lenger

hgva a diPﬁGt aelfmintaraat in whale prcﬁlemﬂ, we have taken tha

lead in the world in trying to see ths whale as acmething more than

a cammerci&l target, as part of a tatal environment an whoaa health
wa all depanﬂ. Christine hﬂﬁ mantienad thﬁ aetian cf aur gavernmant
in Stepping thﬁ nae 0f yaisena an thﬁ publie lands against predators,
a vary difficult éeeiaien, takan by the President by Executive acticn:
vary aantravarsial, as thnga of you whe may 30mg fram wyoming or
Calorada a? ether ahaap country in the wagt knaw that thia was a

”taugh bullet to bits.“ wa hava get mgrine mammal legislatian now

 




 

on the baaks; we have just aahisveé in cancert with 91 ethﬂr
countries a landmgrk ecaan dum§ing canvantimn, and aftﬁr all if
we aen't prctsct the habitats 9f theaa animals thera*s nab much
paint in tyying ta‘warry absut the animals thamselvaa. A warld
ﬁﬁritage TTust Convention pregasad by tha Fraaidant in Fabrnary
cf 1971 was approveé at Faris this past Thnrgday amd far raagons
that escape mg‘hasn‘t made thﬁ newspﬁpers at all, but W%’rﬁ very
pleased with that. Last night tha invitations want nut fram tha
United States ta all Nationa in tha‘ﬁorld t0 an Endangared Spaciea
Cenfarenee t0 preduca an Endangarad Speciea Convention anﬁ Intarw
national ﬁgreament here in Washingtcn, t6 b$ held, I think, in
Fabruary &nd Mar¢h. $9, we are meving ahgad and I think all 9?
as, all Americans, aan be preud of the retard sf aar ceuntry in
this field Where I think wa are prasanting vary real leadershiy,
but all countries ara n§w participating in this graat effort to
prataet and prasgrva thg environmant an which WE all ﬁepﬁnd.

Dr. Schweitzer, alkart Sebw&it3er, ayeka ﬁeth thraagh hia
writinga and, probably, mﬁrﬁ alequently thraugh.his work 9f the
naed.fcr a.”revaranca fer life,” and I don’t think any at uﬁ wnulﬂ
pretena ma hava suceegaea in achieving, in thﬁ kind Qf‘msasure he

would have hﬁd as aehiava, that geal, but I 69 think WE ara aeaing

30mg very impertanﬁ stirringa in the wcrlﬂ.ef a naw raaagﬁitian

an& a nﬁw senaitivity to tha intarﬁapamdanaﬁ 9f lifa ana th&t in
our concarn for auraalvas aaé fer human life and far man as cannat
raally saparaﬁe thig fram an? concarn far all lira baaausa'W$ ara
all part of a graat web 0? life that invalvaa us all ana I think we
are camimg ﬁe was that if‘wa theughtlsasly strika at any part a: thaﬁ;

web we are, in a very raal sensse, striking at auraelvaa‘ 3a thia

 

 




is no mara ramanticism¢ It is a vary raal Self interaat that we
39mg ta this naw underatanding ef tha world g? which we are & part.
ﬁamﬁcne ﬁaid that if wa dm sea a species that is disappearing,

need we ask‘far Wham the hall tolls; wa know, I think, we increasingly

knuw. All cf thia, I think hag lad ta; what I hape is - what we

might call a new maturity'in an? appraaeh ta tha natural warld around
ua an§ ta the athav farmg af lifa th&t inhabit thﬁs planat with'uﬁ‘
we incraasingly, I think, aara for aﬁhar fermﬂ 0f lifa hacauaa they
ara wandarful and axaiting baings, but‘wa alga, I think, hava ﬂame
t6 unﬁaratand that ﬁha health a? thﬁ whaleg, the health.9f tha ether
marina mamm&l$, 0f tha oﬁher*terre3trial animmla and tha birds w

is part a an essential part ~ 0f thﬁihaalhh.ef tha tatal eﬂviranm
mama, ef‘whieh, wa, tma, ara a part, Ta thﬂ extent that that tubal
anvireﬂmﬂmt suffers in aay real senae (again, a3 I gala) we, tog,
gaffer, $9 that ii 13 $ur aancexn ingraaaingly far tha haalth of

the Entire 38% Sf n&taral aystamﬁ 0f thﬂ globe, 3f which we &re

a p&rt, §h&t 1% what thia amneerm fa? wilélife 15 all abaat. 39,
again, juat lgt mg say in Eleaiﬁg-I’m.de@ply grateful t0 all 9?

yam far naming and t9 gharﬁ, in % genaa, tﬁis aelabratian or a
concern aha a goal whiah i3 biggar than any af 6%, anﬁ ag&in be $33;
haw ﬁﬁeply grateful; Ghriatine, I am he yam « tha ﬁnim&l Walfara In~
Stitute w for ﬁaimg ma this hmnar. fhank yQu.

 

 




BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF RUSSELL E. TRAIN

A native of Washington, D. C., Mr. Train holds a B.A. degree
from Princeton University and a law degree from Columbia. He
served in the Army from 1941 to 1946, rising to the rank of Major.
In 1947, he became an attorney for the Joint Congressional Committee
on Internal Revenue Taxation and subsequently became Chief Counsel
and.Minority Advisor to the House Ways and Means Committee in
1953—56. From 1956 to 1957 he headed the Treasury Department's
tax legislative staff.

In 1957, Mr. Train was appointed to the Tax Court of the
United States by President Eisenhower and was reappointed to a
full 12—year term in 1959.

Chairman Train became active in conservation work while serving
on the Tax Court. He founded the African Wildlife Leadership
Foundation and served as its first president. The work of this
Foundation included providing advanced training in the United States
for Africans who have become leaders in wildlife conservation at
home; and development in Tanzania of the Mweka College of African
Wildlife Management, the first such institution in the developing

countries. The college trained large numbers of Africans to serve

in the parks and wildlife departments throughout English—speaking

Africa. He resigned from the Tax Court in 1965 to become President

 




of the Conservation Foundation. In 1966, Mr. Train was elected as
one of the two American members of the Executive Board of the
International union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources,
and he has also served as Trustee and Vice President of the World
Wildlife Fund.

While President of the Conservation Foundation, Mr. Train was
named by President JOhnson to membership on the National Water
Commission. In 1968, President Nixon appointed him Chairman of
the official Task Force to advise the incoming Administration on

environmental problems, and subsequently appointed him Under

Secretary of the Interior. Following establishment of the Council

on Environmental Quality (CEQ) by the National Environmental Policy
Act of 1969, President Nixon appointed Mr. Train as its first
Chairman. In this capacity he is chief environmental advisor to
the President.

As Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality, Mr. Train
has been extremely active in a very wide range of environmental
concerns, both domestically and internationally. He served as
Chairman of the united States delegation to the United Nations
Conference on the Human Environment, held in Stockholm this June,

as well as Chairman of the Joint Committee to implement the US-USSR

 




Environment Agreement in Moscow, this September. He returned last
week (November 17th) from Chairing the U.S. Delegation to the NATO
Committee on Challenges of Modern Society, and Chairmanship of the
U.S. delegation to the conference in London where the international
convention on ocean dumping was concluded. This convention,like
the domestic legislation, was initiated by the CEQ under Train's
Chairmanship.

At a White House Conference in 1965, Train proposed the
establishment of a World Heritage Trust, an international extension

of the national parks concept. As Chairman of CEQ and with President

Nixon's personal endorsement he has successfully pursued this

objective and last week (November 16) the World Heritage Trust
convention was signed in Paris.

under his Chairmanship, the CEQ has pursued a series of
activities involving threatened species, marine mammals, and
general wildlife conservation, among them the development of the
governmental actions banning the use of poisons for predator control
on public lands, and changing the emphasis of the Federal predator
control programs from widespread killing to research and selective

protection.

 




Whale conservation is a particular interest of Chairman Train.
In addition to the domestic actions regarding whales, the U.S.
initiated a recommendation, passed overwhelmingly by the U.N.
Stockholm Conference, calling for a moratorium on whale killing.
President Nixon appointed Train as his special representative to
this year's meeting of the International Whaling Commission, to
assure that the question of whale conservation was approached from
an environmental standpoint, and to demonstrate the importance
the Administration attaches to whale conservation. The strong U.S.
position taken in that meeting led to a series of improvements

both on whale quotas and in the operations of the Commission, and

this meeting is widely regarded by conservationists as a turning

point in the formerly dismal history of that body.

 




 

December 6, 1972

Hon. Russell E. Train

Council on Environmental'ﬂnelity
722 Jackson Place, N.W.
Washington, D.C.

Deer Russ,

According to Sue Pressman who handles zoo inspections for
the Humane Society of the United states, Jungle Habitat failed
to provide winter quarters for animals. They have made many
changes, erecting pre~fsbricated horns and installing heating
in them.since the Saturday Review article sppesred. Mrs. Press~
men expects to make another inspection soon.

Roger Cares is an educational consultant to Jumble Habitat
and I spoke with him by phone. He has had meetings with two of
those responsible, Den Brennan one Brien Hunt. I urged him to
be vorz suspicious.

Hunt and his family of animal traders have earned a bad
reputation in animal protective circles for cruelty and dishonw
osty. The first contact the Asimsl Welfare Institute had with
the East's was in Detroit about seven years ago'when they ran s
pet shop there. ﬁre. Dyes, inspecting for AWI, was told they had
no monkeys there, but she did not believe them and waited in the
parking lot till she saw a truck drive in and unload suspicious 1o
looking cages into the book of the store. She then confronted
them.end got into the monkey room where the first sight that met
her eyes was a deed monkey lying on the floor. The aunt‘s are
well known for saving money by shipping animals in crates much
too small for them. In one instance a puma unable to endure his
tiny box ripped it Open at the Detroit airport causing consterna»
tion but no ftrﬂhor damage. When help some the poms was sleeping
quietly, glad to be rid of his cramped quarters. I won't go into
further detail, but Jungle Habitat is making large amounts of
,monoy - $60,000 a day during the summer eccording to hrs. Pressman.
It is typical of a Hunt operation that so little thought is given
the animals from which the money is being mode.

I hope importation of wild animals for commercial purposes,
whether pet stores or commercial zoos can be stopped.

Enclosed is a letter from.Governor Hickel which.is the result
of the invitation I extended to him.st your suggestion, Is

 




 

Hon. Bussall E. Train December A, 1972

there a chance that ha might be appointed Chairman cf thﬂ Nbrine
Mﬂmmal Commdssion?

With best wishes and thanks for your kind words,

Sinceraly,

Christine Stavens
President

Enclosura
CS/mc

 




.3. WIIT THIRD AVIUUI
.ANCHOMOI. ALA‘KA‘ DD”!

Magma . -‘   _ ; ' , ....,......

V

November 17, 1972

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President‘
Animal Welfare .':";:aszﬁ.ir.:;te;

1686 34th Street, Northwest
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Thank you for your letter and invitation to
attend the annual meeting of the Animal Welfare
Institute. I regret that this year it is not
feasible to fly to Washington, D.C., for the
event. I am sorry I will be unable to help
honor Russ for his activities on behalf of
conservation. '

With best regards.

Sin erely,

 




Willard Marriott has agreed
to be President Nixon’s inau~

time around.’

The motel and drive-in res-
taurant tycoon who turns into
gold everything he touches
had vowed he would never
serve in that capacity again,
so his arm must have been
twisted very effectively.
Maybe that
the reason why. .

Whatever the reasons,
President Nixon wanted the

     
 
  
   
 
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
    
  

Mormon Church who served in
the same capacity in 1969 to
handle his final inaugural.» .. ,

President’s axiom —- when
you have a winningteam, why
change?
Four years ago Alice Mar-
riott got her husband to sign a '
memo promising never again"
to take on that headache.

On second thought, maybe
it was Mrs. Marriott’s arm
the President twisted. -

rt “JEB’"MAGRUDER of the
. - White House staff will be ex-

, ectitive director of the. inaugu-
ral, indicating the White
House is taking an active role
in the running of it. p

The rumor that the Presi-
dent wanted to eliminate the
inaugural balls, because they
never please anybody, and
the parade, because it is apt
to be long and drawn out and
the weather bad, was short.
lived. ~ j

The ballswill be held, the
parade, too, “but where we

/' .

gural chairman the second

gold business is ’
teetotaling high priest of the .

It’s another example of the . I

. .' s \. ’3; . . .
. .' '. . .' v. ‘93 “
“If-1' ‘ - . .'_. v)» 0.17 .
5)? , ‘ - tyl’oﬁvex-Z'ﬁ .

a." ' «.b.-q.\g.9.s .5 ~,VA'A?
.m- we <« ()0) 9‘66". .
x . . s2.->:-.°.-.°.-.-7.~;>.9.\".~°A

hold the balls, the number of
the balls and the character of

   

’ is a genius to put up a plastic

,\

g bubble over the Kennedy Sta-

the parade” willberrdifferen‘tfm dium.

says Marriott.

He would reveal nothing
more until the President
okays the plans.

Since this is the first inau-
gural to use the Kennedy Cen-
ter, it seems a foregone con—
clusion that something special
will be held there.

Why not three simultaneous
performances in the three
auditoria with the President
and First Lady spending a
third of their time in each?
You could really charge for
those seats. ‘

Then for a ' cheaper version
of the same show all you need

Nothing to it, really.

***

RUSSELL TRAIN received '

the Albert Schweitzer Medal

‘ yesterday before an interna- ,
tional group gathered in the

Museum of Natural History
which resounded with the
mating call of a whale.

Five ambassadors heard
Christine Stevens’ tribute to
the chairman of . the

President’s Council on Envi-
ronmental Quality — Italy’s
- Ortona, Peru’s ‘Berckemeyer,
Holland’s Baron van Lynden,

, . ...wuqauum~.ios_m

, ‘ .
"y; 4 vii» .
l‘ .4 . ,.,_
, ; . ' ’
, 2
K
A , .
J * .
I
v
, r
\.l.- ‘
f3:
- t

‘ whales and scored a 53 to 0

_ture, the explosive harpoon.”)

. Vive.’

. mﬂnuimu‘adﬁ" am up. "‘ T .-. ‘1 ' >. ‘ - "A J ,3. V_”_“,'. .r» '.- ~’

 
  

  

 
 

, Switzerland’s Schnyder and
Belgium’s Loridan. .

Christine, who is certainly
our country’s most effective
worker on behalf of humane
treatment of animals, founded
the Animai Welfare Institute
that awards the medal for
outstanding accomplishments
inthe’field. .

She listed Train’s “stunning
victory” at the Stockholm -
Conference where he pro-
posed a 10-year moratorium
on the commercial killing of

   
 
     
    
 
    
   
    
   
   
   
    
    
 
 

vote with three abstentions.

Japan and the USSR, which
kill “85 percent of all whales
taken each year,” were not
among the 53 but, said Chris~ ‘
tine, “the world expressed
itself in that vote.”

(If whales are to be killed
again ’ when their numbers
have been restored, she urged
the use of a “humane, elec-
trical harpoon” instead of
“that loathsome tool of tor-

 
  
 
   
 
 
  

  

   
   

 

SHE SPOKE of Train’s
previous effective help in con-
serving African animals, of
his more recent role in bar-
ring poison for predator con-
trol on public lands, of his
achievements against ocean
dumping and in the develo -
ment of the World Heritage
Trust convention which will
provide places where
“countless creatures can sur-

Continued on Page D-3 "




 

 

 

53‘
33333133

t ~r.-.
,‘i
‘ l e, Mar-,w-r a;-*.w>~~ — - -
"1*. 5,. 7f!" '1" 17: . ' 7 if???” 1
.‘ -, .,. ‘7 \
y'tn‘ {1f§..v,—z-‘. "ﬁr 3"
- s. ..-u.r '. 1.“; . .J sig'l‘
w . w ..‘\.r "i
\,i ‘ ‘. t \
\l '4 n '-

“* Exclusively

Continued from Page D—l

A FILM PREMIERED -at
the Museum of History and

Technology last night is one ~

the President and Mrs. Nixon
should see in their White
Home theater.

Entitled “Population and
the American'Future,” it is
the report of the Commission

on Population Growth and the '

j American Future. Every
; word in the report is spoken.
by narrator Hugh Downs.

“We, worked hard, we ‘
fought hard, we ate together, ‘
drank together and joked to- ‘
gether and ended up with a :
report we submitted to the .
President,” said. “Missy” '

Chandler, commission mem-
ber and wife of the publisher
of the Los Angeles Times.

“We haven’t heard much
from the President. Therefore
this is the reason for this
film.”

The Craig Fisher color mov-
ie is thought-provoking, not

V . depressing. Spiro Agnew as—

sistant C. D. Ward thought it
was not gutsy enough. The

« rollicking children in it..lM1_',-,,, -

 

 

 

tants in 100 years if every

dren.

' family has only three chil-

The presideht of Population ,‘

Education, Inc., Christian j
Ramsey Jr., said the offer to _
buy television time to show ;
the picture was turned down ?
by all three networks on 3
' grounds it is too controversial

l

I
1
i
l
l

and they couldn’t control the
editorial comment.

That reasoning sounded
absurd. They can’t control the
editorial cement of any poli-
tician they interview on the
air, and the more controver-

it.

But the film will be shown

a ‘5.
‘ . v
,v , .
' .--‘.~'

sial he is the better they like ,

r S

on the Public Broadcasting
System on Nov. 29.
Commission Chairman John
D. Rockefeller III missed the
premiere because he is in
Japan, but Sen. and Mrs.
Robert Taft, who were among
the cohosts at the showing
and supper afterwards, ﬂew
in from Ohio for it. ,

 

 




 

 

 

 




{\ C\w§xm MAX \A M “f
b MEM— onm§S\ ‘3

m w ”MNM

 

\Am’Pm‘Awl SM




Frag;
J00? 0 J93 «0

, drpeyﬂnJU/v unu MGR?)
.ﬂéﬂay :3, pl {3P1 CO

30 luv/gig (WU. grimjﬁw.

ddl gnu
Faﬂqadrﬂ 8:..Q/. W
(03393 197/ Ad
0.89640 .21 uo gut?
:91 ca 533105.. 0,5, .91
30:3 (AMJQJ 33030

3/ JorJUraxddaU. nap/C

I‘ll-III.

 




J.
7
m.-
4 iobO Frwb.
3..
, 00
E44 .96 ,xrroknwnw . WC;
jn/m mm 9 a I mm
a? a/
3» M
. /. 5m. PEECQD 2
.aznﬂv, J .2”? £25
._A-.B

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION
NEW YORK. N. Y. 10017

Schweitzer Award Ceremony

November 2lst 3:00 P.M.

The Hall of Life in the Sea

Madison Dr. on the Mall at 10th St.

S. Dillon Ripley, Secy of Smithson
Russell Errol Train, Chairman,
Connoil on Environmental Quality

Ripley — Miss Gabriel(Secy)
381-5005

Train - Mrs. O'Connell (Sec .
382 59u8 y )

Meredith Johnson - Smiths.
381-55142

(miss Lyons, Secy.)

 




OPTIONAL’FORM NO. 10
MAY 1982 somon
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 10141.5

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

M emOmmlum

Mr. Case 1 DATE: ll-lu72

, ‘ Q
Meredith Johnson \§f\

SUBJECT: Meeting, Presentation, and Reception, NHB, NOV. 21

Cepies: Messrs. Conan, Knierim, Michaels,J ﬁrsen, Grimsley, Guandolo, Wells, Janes,
Rowan, ﬂﬂiéféf, Siegel; Harney. Orcino, Robinson, Gausch, Capt. L'Abbe, Mes~

dames Beck, Krug, Heggs,ﬁ§%%%%§§é %:SSH::§§:F
0n.Tuesday November 21 at 3 p.m. in the Ball of Lif e
Welfare Institute will hold a meeting, about-g hour, and then the Secretary
will present the Schweitzer medal to Mr. Russell Train. AboutAQOO there will
be a reception in the Hall. From 100 to 200 guests. I will have hostesses.
Avignone will cater. THIS IS NOT A SI EVENT. The group will pay any overtime,
no fee. See form #600 for billing. Guests will come the Mall entrance. Please
have a leotern on the north with p.a., water and glasses and a small covered
table by it, with 100 folding chairs facing, mid way in the Hall, where the
i co/XWWZ «(Lelia/maﬁa _
best light is/)¢Please have another 75 chairs on a stand by, with men, in case
they are needed, and set up as needed. Screen off the Hall by 2, and close.
Have a table, covered, by the door for releases. Close off far entrance and

those‘other 2 on N&S, all with screens. loner. he parking will be

requested. Pleasenhave all areas in good order. The Secretary would like the

whale sounds on before the meeting begins and after the presentation. igliﬁ;

of the entrance from.the Rotunda for punches and food. Screen an area off to
the left, with 2 8i tables also, for service. Have some benches and standing
ash trays in this area. The caterer will have matches and napkins. Have enough f
portable coat racks, unattended, inside the entrance. Guests will leave about

9 We ﬂue; at; ﬂaw /
5330:- Buy U. 5. Saving: Banal: Raga rly on the Payroll Savings Plan

 




X 1" "l'm‘l’un \

 

By George C. Wilson

Washington Post Staff Write .3

Russell. E. Train cites an , ; .5 ._ a 7 - - _. V - , v
incident from his recent ‘ _ 4 l z ' ' ‘ ‘ . ‘ a ‘ ' .. ; ‘?
Senate confirmation hearing ' ' ' ' ' V ‘ ~
to portray the kamikaze na— _ ,i , r ‘ .i, . ._ . 1 ., ,_
ture of his new job as head ' ’ . M , , ; . 1 EM BIL I: Z 0 s
of the Elli/ll"011m_€l'liﬂl Pi'o- ' ' " “ ' ' “ ' ‘ '
tection Agency.

“Russ,” Sen. lliloyd 'iVI.

Bentsen .lr. ('D-"l‘emf; told
him. “l always thought you
were a man of good judg-
ment. But your acceptance
of this nomination raises a a
very serious question.” ' x

More than accept it, Train 4 ' '
freely admits he lobbied. for
the job of EPA administra-
tor While performing com—
paratively non-hazardous
duty as chairman of Presi—
dent Nixon’s Council on En-
vironmental Quality.

“This is where the action
is,” Train explains. And he
fully realizes he cannot
come out of the job as a
hero.

“It is undoubtedly about
as tough and controversial a
job as you c0u1d lay your
hands on,” says Train, “and
it’s not the kind of job in
which you’ll ever know what
you’ve really done.”

Instead, the 53—year-old
Train sees a whole series of
difficult choices laid out be-
fore him. Each one, no mat—
ter how he makes it, means
anguish. forsOme vocal seg
ment of American society in
this era of pitting quality of
life against continued eco—
nomiesrowth. . . . . ._i _ ,_ .. _ ._ . . . ,

What follows are excerpts , United‘Press International , , “

See TRAIN, (36, 001. i . Nixon last summer.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




.\Nl.\l.\l. \Vlcmumc lxwrrrwnc
v. 0. Max :mrm

\VANIHNG'NLV. I). (T. 20007

November 10, 1972

Dear Humanitarians,

You are cordially invited to the Albert Schweitzer
Award ceremony and annual meetingaof the Animal Welfare In-
stitute. Russell Train, Chairman of the Council on Environ-
mental Quality, is this year's medallist in recognition of
his aggressive efforts to save the world's whales. The medal
will be presented by S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. The ceremony will take place in the
Hall of Life in the Sea, in the Smithsonian's Natural History
Building, Madison Emive on the Mall at Tenth Street, Washing-
ton, D.C., November alst at 3:00 P.M. A reception will
follow the ceremony.

Chairman Train played a leading role in obtaining the
53-0 vote at the Stockholm Conference in favor of a ten-year
international moratorium on the commercial killing of whales.
At the International Whaling Commission meeting which followed
soon after in London, he proposed that the press be admitted
to the hitherto secret sessions at which the fate of the
world's whales is decided each year, but no country would even
second this intelligent proposal. When the vote on the mora-
torium came, and lost u-e with.h abstentions, Mr. Train called
a press conference at the American Embassy and forthrightly
reported on the voting. The International Whaling Commission
will never be the same. Its secret club atmosphere has been
shattered. Humanitarians must press on to bring about a
favorable vote on the moratorium at the next meeting in June,

1973.

We hope you will wish to become a member of the Animal
Welfare Institute. Should you wish to make use of the enclosed
self-addressed envelope for that purpose, we would be very grate-
ful. Your support is needed.

Looking forward to seeing you on the let,
Sincerely,

fan a a...

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

c/o Mrs. John Schoepperle
Assistant Treasurer

38 Concord Avenue
White Plains, New York 10606

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE - POBOX 3650 - Wash., D.C. 20007

October 31, 1972

Hon. Russell Train, Chairman
Council an Environmental Quality
722 Jackscn Place, N‘w.
Washingtan, D.C.

Please reply to; .
1686 3hth.Straet, ng.
Washingtcn, D.C. 20007

Baas? mas,

Here, at last, as I pramised is material about tha Albert
Schweitzer Award of tha Animal walfare Institute: a list of:meda11«
iats published in 1966, and several Information Reporta in which
artiolas abeut the Award appaared.

The first date you suggested has haw been definitely set: Revamp
bar let at 3:00 P.M. in The Hall of Lira in the Sea at the ﬁmithso»
nian Institution. As you doubtlasa know, that is where thg model of
the blue whale is suspended, and Dillen suggasted that us might have
sama recorded whale gangs, toe. The.Antmal Welfare Institute's annual
rapert (still at thﬂ printar's or I would aneleaa one) has a Jacques
Cousteau photograph 0f a mgthar and infant humpbaak'whale on tha caver.
Sc, as yau can see, your work for theaa creaturas will be praised in
a suitabla setting.

We will be 5@nding eat cards cf invitation to ether interestad
people in addition to Animal walfare Institute mambers, so if yam wnuld
_aak your aecratary ta send us the mamas cf anyene you would like to
have invited, we‘ll be happy he do so. .

Usually, ona to two hundred peeple news. I give a short report
on thm wark of thﬁ Anhmal Walrare Instituta during tbs year which people
Gan read &bout in were detail, if they want to, in tbs Annual Report
distributed at thg~meeting. Dr. Barbara Orlans will vaport briafly
on her work ta prevent cruel exparimenta by untrained youths (thﬁ last
Information Repert which.I also enclose will giva yougan idea about
thia). Than Dillon will make tbs presentation at the Schweitzer maaal
to yea, and.we hope you will tell ua about tha cambination of fighting

 




Hon. Russell Train - 10/31/72

and diplomacy you have broughﬁ to bear on whale protection, and what«
ever you may wish to say about what concerned citizens can do to help.

After the cerammny, there is a reception which should be over by
about S:30,Pbut it isn't necessary for you to stay the whole time if
you can't manage it.

Kindsat regards,

Sincarely,

Christine Stevens
President

Enclosures
CS/mc

 

 




 

December A, 1972

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary
The Smitheenien Inetitutien
Weehington, D.C.

Dear Dillon,

Everyone was tremendously impressed by the
Schweitzer Award ceremeny this year. is you put
it, hearing "the music of the spheres” and being
under the whale was of such great importance.
Your wonderfully understanding speech which brought
home to peeple the profound changes that at last
are beginning to take place, made the ceremeny more
meaningful than any previous one. we just listened
to your words again on the tape which.Heredith Wilson
so kindly arranged for, so they are fresh in our minds
and deubly appreciated.

Thanks for everything‘

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




NATHANIEL ALEXANDER OVVINGS

November ]7 , 1972

The Honorable Russell 13. Train, Chairman
Council on Environmental Quality . .a
722 Jackson Place, N.W.
Washington, 13.0. 20506

Dear Russ:

. Margaret and I both want you to know how pleased
and happy we are that you have received the much
deserved honor, the Schweitzer Award; for 1972.,
You have certainly kept the light bright and shining
throughout these four long years .

Most sincerely yours ,

 

\ I
/ 8/91/91 (La—47 {9’72/1/77 (M

’1
//../£":’ W "C!

Mr. and Mrs. Nathaniel A. Owings

 

ONE MARITIME PLAZA, SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94111

 




 

 

  

Ehank gnu varg'mmch, Christime itsmtnm, far yaut gmnermut and kind
intrcéuetiom af:me this mftarmmmn far a pnryete;féf/ﬁiﬁﬁfﬁ¢ﬁ£‘mhich
mimic}; um: he mmm mltawrmblm. Can-e af 3313 things that I am plemsmi mbaut

    
    

. M”

this: mm at 3.233 of in _ 3 ,.

 

axing hm lei ham in mm Simithsamiim 13 m 3:3 33.33.3133

    
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 

ta all m? 13:31: antemgaim the mmmmntiml 11:13:33 that. 333313333 hammer: pet-03:13 whiz;
gm- trminti in natural his 4533:2173 mm. tum-m Gf 3m: mile tire mmernad mi 1211 the
cart (if maimlm. It 13 am; 2333 mark: 5%. quemtian a? trainizzg 913 it; it» 91’

natural inmtinctm, I think, far mam-t maple 113m- -:ise3.f mm bewma dram:

   

“a ti: ntiG

 

5.th the field; 01‘ Eimtural iiistmrg £10 £333 mssmntimlly far mamas: 0r
er mamwhmt sentimmntml mam-tam. I mm mm intemtian 332‘? ﬁrming a iimtural
Eiimmriati 3% mm miwmmii might ha mhmn 1 was: a. small bay - mm: at, all .. I
likaﬂ {mm mmtwafwd aorta anti I likmi mterything 1m dc: mi “32h it but I mm told;

   

11:3 and religianmly and. semi gut-313' 33313" £312; that 3322 1181.5: ‘50
fight the. 33.9136; fight it. 13.th anti 3:33.: mi 110 3:39 mi; and do smri ant arid
tangible-3 thingm mud mat 13331113.ng 33611?th in year mix-.1233 and faneias and
mbmmmtitms and it mmmn't anti}. latte}? Ethan I was: it: 033113336 Wharm in the

College: mayhem. I had ammmmd fimly that 1 33.3.3 gmimg 1.12233 232231219335 via

 

{aha Law that I auddenly haw“ ta mmli m that i ‘2; 33.11 - asunder} terribly

 

boring; anti that; what: I rim-ally manta-d ti: it: max-i as what I wanted to demhiah
mam it: mffm—ct “23% heat. a. bielagimt anti ta bmcnmae at. 33133193131; inﬂaz’am am in
fiml-ci biolegy mad the outwf—usimam . and“. thim tax-time}. 3. gram ﬂea]. cf cant tame...

my .fmitmﬁs and. ammmimtma in iii-tit Emir, may mlmtivea and $0 an,

 

3326. $9 I thixﬁt 333mm in the. is» w
it 31mm this aft mmmn m t have thcnght i frat; tim ta 1-. 3-.

may that Russell, 912:“ Miami. frienﬁ mm

 

   

   
 

. ‘ ‘ 3*-

- 3am - i
‘_ i mbandm his writing mortimhiwla and uttmrly a-tnaible ear-ear in

    

     

mm Law: and take up his incramaing inter-mat in acnservation. 3mm :13 it

     

33203111: manta-W33ticm 3; what 1:5 it» aha-ut- animal waif. - , that; has suidanly begun

   

ta mam me atria-ibis? Why after all the :36 years fer 33301316 a: my own age far

   

833331233318 {32* tie-male new S-nme‘whéit 120313338333 hacmwm T hag-mi n {in fag} “n13? Q'nmmmhat

  




 

“ova? tha hill,“ myaelf, but why is it xix that all of sudden we are raalizing

that we were absalutely righﬁ ané.ﬁhat thﬁ thinga thﬂtrwe were~intarasteﬂ in
fascinated by and moveé by were, iﬂdaed, the assential*verities. And so I
have had an enermaus sgnsﬁ 0f accom@liahmant and plaaaurﬁ thaaa last faw
years in bsing asseciataﬁ with.our hcnared gueat thia aftarnoon. Eething
could be a greater‘honar for ma t0 have baan askﬁd by yﬁur Institute t0
this falicitéus taak and ﬁs be able ta ﬁe it maﬁa? thﬁ whﬁla wh&ra we can
h3&? music of’tha ayhnras as we stand or git anﬁ ta thiak about the earth
as it really is rathar th&n the earth as aonatructg in aaanomics and the
303131 sciences would have us beliava thﬁt it is, is samﬁthing of enaﬂmmus
impartance. Russell ?raim has yerfmnmad & graat aarvice,im.his manifald
warkds in tha anviranamtalmcenservation field anﬂ 1 far ana thruugh.mﬂ
friendship with him ané knawladg® af him am.cenvinced that thia is merely
tha beginning and that hg will ge on from;str6ngth to asrangth and 89, if
I may, I would like t0 present iguﬁuss with.th$ ﬁchweitzﬁr ﬁﬁdal on behalf

of the gnimal welfare Institute.

 




.‘NISIAI. ‘vyl'llJ’ARI‘I INH'I‘I'I‘I'TI'I
l’. U. linx 3H5“

\\‘.\Hlll.\'(;'l‘u.\3. l). (T. 2mm?

November 10, 1972

Dear Humanitarians,

You are cordially invited to the Albert Schweitzer
Award ceremony and annual meeting of the Animal Welfare In-
stitute. Russell Train, Chairman of the Council on Environ-
mental Quality, is this year's medallist in recognition of
his aggressive efforts to save the world's whales. The medal
will be presented by S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. The ceremony will take place in the
Hall of Life in the Sea, in the Smithsonian's Natural History
Building, Madison Drive on the Mall at Tenth Street, Washing-
ton, D.C., November let at 3:00 P.M. A reception will
follow the ceremony.

Chairman Train played a leading role in obtaining the
53-0 vote at the Stockholm Conference in favor of a ten-year
international moratorium on the commercial killing of whales.
At the International Whaling Commission meeting which followed
soon after in London, he proposed that the press be admitted
to the hitherto secret sessions at which the fate of the
world's whales is decided each year, but no country would even
second this intelligent proposal. When the vote on the mora-
torium came, and lost u—e with u abstentions, Mr. Train called
a press conference at the American Embassy and forthrightly
reported on the voting. The International Whaling Commission
will never be the same. Its secret club atmOSphere has been
shattered. Humanitarians must press on to bring about a
favorable vote on the moratorium at the next meeting in June,

1973.

We hope you will wish to become a member of the Animal
Welfare Institute. Should you wish to make use of the enclosed
self-addressed envelope for that purpose, we would be very grate-
ful. Your support is needed.

Looking forward to seeing you on the 2lst,

Sincerely,

Kﬁzﬁ W

Christine Stevens
President

 




:XNIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650

\VASHINGTON. D. C. 200-07

November 10, 1972

Dear Members,

You are cordially invited to the Albert Schweitzer Award
ceremony and annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute.
Russell Train, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality,
is this year's medallist in recognition of his aggressive efforts
to save the world's whales. The medal will be presented by S.
Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The
ceremony will take place in the Hall of Life in the Sea, in the
Smithsonian's Natural History Building, Madison Drive on the Mall
at Tenth Street, Washington, D. C., November 21st at 3:00 P. M.

A reception will follow the ceremony.

Chairman Train played a leading role in obtaining the 53-0
vote at the Stockholm Conference in favor of a ten-year inter-
national moratorium on the commercial killing of whales. At
the International Whaling Commission meeting which followed soon
after in London, he proposed that the press be admitted to the
hitherto secret sessions at which the fate of the world's whales
is decided each year, but no country would even second this in-
telligent proposal. 'When the vote on the moratorium came, and
lost 4-6 with 4 abstentions, Mr. Train called a press conference
at the American Embassy and forthrightly reported on the voting.
The International Whaling Commission will never be the same.

Its secret club atmosphere has been shattered. Humanitarians
must press on to bring about a favorable vote on the moratorium
at the next meeting in June, 1973.

The annual report of the Animal Welfare Institute is
closed. As you can see, we have been very active, and we
your help and support. If you can send a contribution at
time, it would be deeply appreciated and would do much to
suffering animals.

Sincerely,

[’23 1.; Km,

Christine Stevens
President

 




5‘1. 313111th

(globe-Ermnrmt
D. 292,789 SUN. 306,889

NOV 2 2 $972 {53’

Minor: aidé 987‘s Wildiifej award ‘ '

, WASHmG'roN. m - RusseE.E Train. chairman or, the"
President’s Council' on.‘ Environmental Quality has been
awarded the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the g1WMare
Institute, the council announced. 7 . . ”'X"""”“‘

The medal was to be presented Tuesday at the Smith-
sonian Instimﬁon’s Museum. oi Natural I-History here. ' .
. The announcement said Train was «honored for his con-
’ tributions to the protection of wildlife, the preservation of
* their habitat, and the conservation of “3135:8114 other 00-

Train is a native of Washington. DC, a former judge on
the 11.5. Tax Court. and former president of the Conservation
“Foundaticn'   _?.':.‘; 'V , i v‘ . ' ’2

. nil; " ‘

 




: FREER GALIERY OF ART '- .SMITNSONIAN ASTROPHYSPCAL OBSERVATORY - JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS ° JOSEPH H. HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 0

from the Office of Public Affairs
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, DC. 20560

Telephone: (202) 381-591 1

Bi ogra phi cal Ma terial

********************************

S. DILLON RIPLEY

********************************

S. Dillon Ripley, biologist, ecologist, and authority on the birds of the Far
East, is the eighth Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

0 Dr. Ripley was appointed chief executive of the Institution on February l,
l964, after serving for four years as Director of Yale University's Peabody Museum
of Natural History, and eighteen years as a member of Yale's faculty.

He also has served on the staffs of the Academy of Natural Sciences in
Philadelphia, the American Museum of Natural History in New York, and Harvard
University.

Born in New York City in l9l3, Secretary Ripley early became fascinated both
with ornithology and the Far East. At the age of l3, he visited India with his family
and went on a walking tour into western Tibet. At l7, with his family‘s help, he
constructed a duck pond and since that time has collected and observed waterfowl at
his home in Litchfield, Conn.

After graduating from St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H., and Yale University

(where he was a prelaw student), and graduate studies in zoology at Columbia

MORE

(I!
“I
.-
5
§
(I)
<
z
5
2
O
0"
I
E:
E
0)
I
S
:3
NJ
0)
D
2
§
I
a
O
m
I
9
I.”
Z
S
p-
0}
O
O
<
Z
<
I
Z
<
E
M.
O
2
D
“J
m
D
E
:2
Z
9
.—
<
Z
D
Z
<
>.
K
O
.—
Q
I
_.l
<
2
E?
(
2
H.
O
S.
2
HI
«n
a
2
z
2
.—
<
Z
O
)—
K
In
_J
.J
<
0
x
2
3.
z
u
C
O
O
K
<
O
D
>..
K
O
‘2
>
O
<
2
D
m
(D
D
E
(I)
DJ
0
K
O
u.
0
III-I
2
n:
<
J
<
Z
2
3..
<
z
0
Z
‘3
‘0
LL]
0
M.
O
2
:3
U
U)
D
Z
3
m
3.:
E
O
O
O

A8311“ .LIVHLUOJ TVNOILVN ' SUVTOHOS HOi 831N30 TVNOILVNUJLNI NOS‘IIM MOUOOOM ° ADOTONHOBL ONV AUOLSIH :lO M10330“ WNOUVN ' 13V JO AH3TW9 WNOILVN ° SHIV SNH i0 31011031103 'IVNOLLVN ° WHBSOW 3OVdS ONV HIV TVNOIIVN

' 3OIAUHS JONVHOXS TVNOIlVNUllNI ' ammsm HOUVSSSU TVOIdOUl NVINOSHUWS - SONVHOXB NOUVWUOJNI 30N3|OS ° AUOlVUOSV‘l AOOTOIH NOIlVIOVU ° XUVd TVOIDO'IOOZ TVNOIIVN '

 




University, Dr. Ripley in l936 joined a zoological expedition to New Guinea that
helped establish the pattern of his future career. At the conclusion of the
eighteen-month expedition, he joined a second Philadelphia Academy of Natural
Sciences expedition, this time to Sumatra.

Back in the United States, after serving as an assistant at the American Museum
of Natural History, Dr. Ripley in l94l accepted a fellowship and teaching assistant-
ship at Harvard UniverSity. Two years later he received the Ph.D. degree from
Harvard.

During this period, Dr. Ripley served in l942 as Assistant Curator of birds at
the Smithsonian before entering World War II service from l942 to l945 as a civilian
in the Office of Strategic Services. He served with the OSS in India, Burma, and
Ceylon.

In l946, following conclusion of the war, Dr. Ripley began his dual career at
Yale University_as faculty member and staff member of the Peabody Museum of Natural
History. ‘

Through the years, Secretary Ripley has continued to engage in expeditions to
the South Pacific, Ceylon, India, Nepal, and Bhutan.

In addition to heading the Smithsonian, Secretary Ripley is a member of the
Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities, President of the International Council
for Bird Preservation, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and a member of
the standing committee of the Federal Council for Science and Technology.

He is a trustee of several museums, including the H. F. duPont Winterthur

Museum near Wilmington, Delaware, George Washington University, the National

Symphony Orchestra, the White Memorial Foundation, the French Institute, the World

Wildlife Fund, and the Conservation Foundation. Also, he is a Fellow of the American

MORE

 




Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Ornithologists' Union, and
the Zoological Society of India, serves on the Executive Board of the International
Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, and is an honorary or
corresponding member of several foreign scientific and cultural societies.

Dr. Ripley was a Fulbright Fellow in l950, a Guggenheim Fellow in l954, and
Fellow of the Natural Science Foundation in l954.

Among Secretary Ripley's books are The Sacred Grove (1969), Trail of the Money

 

 

Bird, Search for the Spiny Babbler, A Paddling of Ducks, A Synopsis of the Birds of
India and Pakistan, The Land and Wildlife of Tropical Asia (with the editors of
Life), and Ornithological Books in the Yale University Library (co-editor). He is
currently at work (with Dr. Salim Ali) on a Handbook of Indian Birds, and on other
publications.

He holds honorary degrees from Yale University, Marlboro College, George
Washington University, Dickinson College, Hofstra University, Catholic University,

the University of Maryland, the Order of the White Elephant and the Freedom Medal

from the Government of Thailand, and the Gold Medal of the New York Zoological Society.

Secretary Ripley married the former Mary Moncrieffe Livingston of New York City
in l949. They have three children, Julie Dillon, Rosemary Livingston, and Sylvia

MacNeill. The Ripleys live in Washington and in Litchfield, Connecticut.

SI—19-70

 

Forj further information contact:

George J. Bérklacy 381-5911

 

 




 

Russell Train:

Dr. Ripley; Diﬂan, Christine, all my friends h$P63 and family ~ family
seams to cceupy a goaﬁ partian 3f the audience w-Itm very proad ané very
humble ta be given this hmnar u it is a vary graat hanar - and I am

sincerely, daeply grataful* I aa,alsa gentiﬁyva to tbs

faet that'Whateverleffarta I have maﬁa and whatevar succasses I may have

baa in the area which brings us tagethgr 0r wildlife ané animal pretection.
anvirsnﬁmantal impravamﬂnt, ganarally, has bean shared and in a very r331
made peasible by
aense by my asaociatas in govarnmant ﬁﬁd alas my friends on tha outsiée af’
”v-er'nmant :zi.._.: 1:: th& privata aectcr who bring a wry 38383131841
éimanﬁian t0 mutual effart. In governmﬁnt I £§§§§d§gpeak firat of my
aasaciatad in ggﬁservation - thﬂ $§d GanserVatioa Feundation w which_I
have naw laft, but particularly in the Caundl an Eaviranmsntal Quality
and aysaking of Whﬁlﬁﬁ I have to nod te-Rea Talbet, whmm.mﬂny cf you kﬂaw,
and tha Deptl 9f Int. , Secrat&ry ﬁbrtﬁn, Saeretary Eat Raad,&8uff Bahlen,
all 91$ friendg and fighters far tbs whale, :nﬁng ath®rsg and the Dapt.
af‘CGIM%rce, EOéA and my great friend, Bab White, 33d Bill ﬁran, whmm;I 569
have, an& any atherg frgm.ﬁeﬁﬁ I may net have noticaé; and othsr mambers
6f thﬂ Cabinst, imaged tha ?reaident hﬁm&elf,‘3ha has I think givan mare
leadarship ta Gar cancern far wildlife than we have seam far-same while aad
thﬁy 6f cﬁursa, also, anﬁzmost ingartantly ta aur friends and asscciateé
in Cengraas, tha mambars af Ccngraas, and thﬁ Ctmagtteaa and their staffs,
all efiwham ara an integral part af the anceesses and the afforts we hava
mﬁda. And an the autsiaﬁ thmzmaaﬁy Qrganizatinna and peapla hare and aborad
Whﬂ hava in a sense given rise to an? ﬂaw anvironamﬂntal comaieance and
withant'which, really, nathinnguld hﬁva hapganad and yen had a vary exu
cellent axﬁaple of‘ﬁhat I 2%»talkiag about hafcre you a faw mwmwnts ago in
Christine ftevens'wha‘haa baan a tirelﬁas fightsr and an inapiratien to all
c§t§:.n I thiak it is quite clearly tha caﬁa thaz withaut citizen soncern and
c "“aa

nn+4nn man-11%? mam-#“h-‘gmm e.yn~s'!.-H ‘

W‘X‘M‘f‘ﬂ“ I

 

 




 

ticianﬁ mnve, bureaucrats nave, becaua thﬁ pecple want tham to ané puﬁ tha
haat on and it’s gust about that simple.ané we’ra saaing this hppen around
tha worlé and I am dglighted to see 80 many friends frqm athar gavernmﬁnts
mambers of the diplamatic corps here‘becaasa I knaw they gre sensitive to

this same yhﬁnamenan accurring in their awn ccuntirea Q ané this iﬁ all ta

tha aged a and as I travel abroad I am freguentlyaakad “What :3 tha highest

priarity fer actien in tbs enviranmﬂntﬁl fialdJﬁind I think'kxxix quite
simplyighiz — and that 13 thﬁ crgatimn of a infbmﬁeﬁ anﬁ cancernaﬂ citizengy.
we have had.$ame vary real sucoeﬁges and evgn whﬁn wa hava net'won thﬂ
entira battle, Ir:¢5sg we havg,lo:::ﬁ:£s laat vary racant faw yaars anﬂ
manthszmade SOMﬁ very important steps fgrward. Eﬁu have haard abeut the
whales. I think we 033 be proud ef tha fact thﬁt the Unitad ﬁtates stoppad
Whaling; thﬁ United Sﬁates stepped the imyartatian 0f Whale preducts inta
this aauntrw and while we no lengar‘have a airect aélf int®?eat in whale
yrbblamg we have takan thﬂ lead in the warld in tryiag t0 sag tbs whale

as smagthing mmre ﬁhan a gammareial target but 33 part of a total anvironmmnt
on whase kaiﬁ hﬁﬁlth we all ﬁepand. Shristing hag mantianed the actian af
ear governmﬁnt xnxxwysagvzmv %%fiﬁfewéﬁiﬁﬁﬁiﬁﬂf#£iiﬁg in stapping tha usa
of poisons an tha public lands against predaﬁars, a vary ﬁifficult éegision,
taken by the Frasident by ﬁxacutiva &cﬁi6n, vary cantrevarﬂial,&s thsae of
yen whn may came fram wyaming ﬁggmxﬁalarado gr other Shgep counttﬁas in
ﬁne Waﬂt knaw that this was a ”taugh bullet to bite.” ye hava get marine
mammal legislation naw an tha baaks; we hava jugt achiavd in conaarnt with.
91 aghar oauntﬁes a landmﬁrk aaaan ﬁumping canvention, and aftar all if we
don't pretact thﬁ habitaﬁzaf thsse animala thgre‘a net much paint in trying
ta worry about thﬁ animals thgmﬁelveg. é woyld heritage trust canventien
propsaed by the Presiﬂent in Fabruary af 1971 waa appravgd at Paris this
past ?huM-day and far wasans that 6303.136 me hasn’t. made tha newspapers: at
all, but‘we’re vary pleased with that. Last night thﬁ invitationa went

out frcm;tha United States t0 all matisna in the Wcrld to an Enaangarad Spa»

 




 

agreamemt here in Washington,to be held, I think, in March? February. 30
we are waving ahead and I think all 0f us, all ﬁmﬁriaans,can b6 proud

of the recard of eur ccuntry in this field where I think we are prasenting
very real leaderahip,but all countﬁﬁea are new participating in this
great affort ta protect anﬁ pregerwe the environamnt an'which we all
depend.

Dr. Schweitzer; ﬁlbert Schweitzer, spoka hath.through his writinga
and probably mﬂra eloqugntly thraugh,hi$ Hark 0f the naad far a ”revarance
far life.“& I dan’t think ﬁﬂ‘any Gf'us woulé pretané we have succeeded in
aehiaving in thﬂ kind ef‘maagure he wculd h&ve had us aehiava that goal,
Eh but I d0 think wa are ageing sqma very important atirrings in tha warld
@f a max reeagnitian and 3 Raw aansitivity t9 aha intardepenﬁe 9f life and
thﬂt in cur ﬁancern f0? auraelvaa, for human life and for man, we cannet
really separate th£g fram_our cancarn far all life because wa are £11
part 0f a graaﬁ web of life tﬂat invelves us all and I think we are coming
ta See that if we thoughtlasaly strike at any part of that web we are
in a very raal ﬁanae striking at amrselves, Sc thig is me wara namanticiam
it is very real self imtareat that we came t0 this new undarst&nding of the
waria 0f whick.we are a yart. £3 aameone gaid that if we de see a ﬁyecies
that 13 diaappearing ﬂﬁﬁﬁ we ask far wham.the bell tells; Va knaw, I think,
wa inereaaimgly knaw‘ All 9f this, i think haﬁ lad ta, what I hspe is ~

What might call a nawzmaturity in an? gppreach to the natura1.world around

ﬁﬁ and ta the athar terms a? life that inhabit this planet with.u$. we hava
incraasingly, I think, 9&ra far ethﬂr foams af lifﬁ beeause they are
wandarful and exciting beings, bat we also, I think, hava sama to undarstand
that tha health of thg whalas, thﬁhealth of the cthar marine “aurals, a?

the ather land terraatrﬁil animals -tha birﬁs ~Ii$ yarﬁ, an asaential

yart, ef thﬂ health cf thﬁ tatal enviroamﬁnt, ef‘which, we tae, are a part

and ta the axtent that that tat&1 enviranment suffers in any real gauge

 

 




thaﬁ
again, as I said, WE, tao, suffer, 30 it is our caneern increasingly fer ﬁha

health oﬁfﬁﬁe eatirﬁ set 9f natural gystams af thﬁ glcbe Qf‘whieh.wa are

a §&rt that :3 what thiﬁ cancernforwélglife ig all.ﬁbout. Ea, again, juat
let mﬁ gay in closing I‘m daeyly grateza all Qf’YQHAfGF caming &nd £9 Shﬁre
in a Sense this celebraticn 0f 3 cancgrn and & geal whiaﬁ.i$ bigger than any
af ma and again ﬁg gay, ﬁhristina,hew deeply grateful I am tQ yam

4&1 Eglfare Inaﬁitute far doing_me thig hﬁmar. Ehank yam.

 

 




The Houston Post:
D. 294,590 SUN. 327,167

NOV 2 2 1972 agree

Nixon aide. honored

Russell E. Train, chairman of the Presi-
dent’s Council. on Environmental Quality, has
been awarded the Albert Schweitzer Medal of
the Animal Welfare Institute, the council an-
nounced in Washington. The medal was
presented Tuesday in a ceremony at the
Smithsonian Institution’s Museum of Natural.
History. Train was honored for his contribur
tions to the protection of wildlife, the pres
servation of their habitat, and the con-
servation of whales and other endangered spe-
Cies.

 




SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20560

APPLICATION FOR FACILITIES FOR SPECIAL EVENTS

SI-600
REV. 4/71 APPLICATION NO.

PART I — APPLICANT

Complete all blanks; if not applicable, Show NA. Sign and return all copies to above address Attention. Director (building
or area requested). Copy 1 will be returned for your file

 

 

1. UNIT OR ORGANIZATION: IF NOT A SMITHSONIAN UNIT, GIVE ADDRESS (NO., ST., CITY, STATE, ZIP, AND PHONE) 33 7—

Animal Welfare Institute, P. O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007 2332

 

NATURE AND PURPOSE OF ORGANIZATION.

Non-profit organization principally involved in educating through public

 

REPRESENTATIVE WHO WILL ATTEND AND BE RESPONSIBLE FOR EVENT (NAME, ADDRESS, HOME AND OFFICE PHONE):
Christine Stevens, President; 1686 3Uth St., N;W., Washingnn, D.C.
. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF EVENT: (Annual Event) INCLUSIVE DATES: TIME: 3 .00 P M ATTESD
Albert Schweitzer Award Ceremony. Nov. 21, 1972OPEN ' ' . Usually
Hon. S. Dillon Ripley will make 100-200
presentation. CLOSE

 

 

 

 

 

WILL LITERATURE BE DISTRIBUTED? IF YES, ATTACH SAMPLES. NAME OF PERFORMING GROUP (IF NOT YOUR GROUP):

IX] YES E] No

 

. FACILITIES:

 

A. BUILDING OR GROUND PREFERENCE: B. SPACE DESIRED (AUDITORIUM, EXHIBIT, OTHER):

The Hall of Life in the Sea

 

 

C. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR EVENTIIN ADDITION TO SERVICES INCLUDED IN SERVICE CHARGE):

 

 

(ATTACH CONTINUATION SHEET IF NEEDED)

 

COMMENT:

 

A G R E E T O:
. COMPLY WITH CONDITIONS ON REVERSE.
. PAY A SERVICE CHARGE OF s

 

. PAY ALL COSTS INCURRED FOR SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS LISTED IN 'ART I, SECTION 3C ABOVE; AND

,, OVIDED SUCH COSTS ARE SUPPORTED BY A WRITTEN

Christine Stevens 'I 'ALT ,P“ _ .. President 11/3/72
._ u7/_‘ﬂw,‘-~V’_NAM.E.OEAPPLICANT . ' TITLE DATE
*NOT APPLICABLE To SI USERS IN FY 1971

 

 

PART II — ”DIRECTOR OF BUILDING”

Complete after applicant has completed Part / and distribute copies immediate/y.

. TYPE OF USER: C] SI SPONSORED [j INTERNAL @OUTSIDE ORGANIZATION

. ASSISTANT SECRETARY (PUBLIC SERVICE) HAS AP PROVED PERFORMING GROUP: [:1 YES [:1 NO NOT APPLICABLE

. ESTIMATE OF COSTS FOR SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS LISTED IN PART I, ABOVE: 5
4. ACTION: [:1 APPROVED {:1 DISAPP VED (IF OISAPPROVED, DISTRIBUTE ONLY COPIES 1 AND 2)
5. REPRESENTATIVE OK "QIRwR OF B ‘ DIN G":

 

 

NAME UI DI f ROOM PHONE
MN m STIR Xiﬁ. Mmm
Don 1d ase Natural Histo v 47 6358

 

 

.:NOTE THE APPLICANT HAS AlkTHO‘iIZED AND AGREED TO BE BILLEDI FOR ACTUAL COSTS; SEE PART I ABOVE

 

 

. NAME V SIGNAT/M *DATE
Paul K. Knierim
Assistant Director 11-7-72

 

 

*ABOVE ACTION SUBJECT TO CENTRAL REVIEW; BECOMES FINAL AFTER 5 WORKDAYS.

 

 

 

APPLICANT (When Part II is completed) (See reverse for mmlitions and general information)

 




\7/‘7 L. QILUHLELJM 5-1:

L':A5HL¢;C3TLw 2,

Wedding and Sg‘xgll‘ﬂp! CM- {:w

..‘ IA , I Law, / .
A/ . .. . .. xiv), Ice ”ream and C0 1“" m:
O dfz/{UZO/Zﬁ (9/? 6.! V ' C
[ Fancy Forms of a EMMY:
(I W “J E
(.‘AT'FPle;
, ' K‘R ~ ‘Lmrfr
(gamer 2m}: letfzdwmr cm ‘Pi‘: TAiLE::‘/:A , ‘3'}:
" C L Err
PIERRE v. e‘Jncmo. PA".

‘23“T’RovnMSMP 219 19"2

Johnson
W

ufl.

r .

J01??? {31" 0011 i ' " :30”;
mashinjten Q.¢
3€1~55h3'

mwwvxTwa
To be held at: ﬁatural 'istory Bldg.

«L {rt-7!“ :‘ . . e. A s :1 - , .. - L- I~ M“. w»
r . -< ;- ‘ ‘ — A “a“ v- . J 1‘ A ' ..1 .‘ ‘ ‘ ~._- . “v 1‘ v \ ‘, - L - ~ L. - , .

‘a it

win-9 y. '

2&5! ”..4’3’7f?£'€f§x‘;f :1

8 Gal. whivkey

6 Gal. Fruit Punch-

an

“.3535- - f

v

350T ea Coakie s

I 1'14? his???

800 - ‘ '5 SanJWiches a.n nd
Watercress
Lbs. SEL d.

Lbs. ﬁints

“ompletg service of china, alagses, ailver,
electric founttin for‘whiskey scar “ﬂ“cn,
punch tcwi la la, candelabra, punch cups, eﬁc.

mums... «KW? . “xv-1m. r'l' .

$311.3”

Exf.ra:
3 waiters for A hm ‘ $66.00
1 Pantry Girl i‘or . .= “ 17.00
Block of Cuba ,L W &.00
T”? 00
$393 . 35

evince 731'?!” (Weft; 1?: 1.5% CR&P
ﬁe? persan.
53:? ”Qua/{L 3m 1'. 01' "’ 7,."
”:“e wiL be kwdﬁm to mn?e aﬁy
c§1.-::~j)§§g_; ’"ffu I‘CC‘ 33.18. "‘5.

Rmvmmctfu1fr y urs,
’H’V 1‘ 1/04., F71,
divn‘;7”z-~

/

:%%¢7/’

. _‘ 1'» f ..
IL]!:,/ ”.753. Kg;

 




. from the Office of Public Affairs
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, DC. 20560

Telephone: (202) 38 1—59 1 1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

RIPLEY TO PRESENT ANIMAL HELFARE
INSTITUTE MEDAL T0 RUSSELL TRAIN

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, will present the
Animal Welfare lnstitute's annual Albert Schweitzer Medal to Russell E. Train,
Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality, on Tuesday, November Zl, at 3 p.m.
in the National Museum of Natural History.

The ceremony will take place, appropriately, in the Hall of Life in the Sea
under a full~size model of a blue whale, one of the most spectacular of endangered

species.

Mr. Train will be honored for his distinguished record of conservation

activities, dating from long before his professional involvement in the field. While
a judge on the U. S. Tax Court, he founded and was first president of the African
Wildlife Leadership Foundation. The Foundation provided training in wildlife con—
servation to Africans and developed the Mweka College of African Wildlife Management
in Tanzania, the first such institution in the developing countries. Mr. Train was
a vice president of the World wildlife Fund during the same period, l959~l969.

Mr. Train resigned from the Tax Court in l965 to become president of the‘

Conservation Foundation. he served as Under Secretary of the Department of the

more-~—

 




c2-

Interior from l969-l970. In l970 he was named first Chairman of the Council on
Environmental Quality.

Mr. Train was leader of the U. S. delegation to the l972 U. N. Conference on
the Human Environment at Stockholm. He served also as the President's representa—
tive to the meeting of the InternatiOnal Whaling Commission in London.

Under his chairmanship, the Council has pursued a series of activities
involving threatened species, marine mamnals, and general wildlife conservation,
among them the development of the governmental actions banning the use of poisons
for predator control on public lands, and changing the emphasis of the Federal
predator control programs from widespread killing to research and selective protection.

The Institute is a non~profit, educational organization that works to promote

the welfare of all animals, domestic and wild. It presents the Schweitzer Medal

each year to the “individual who has contributed most outstandingly during the year

to the advancement of animal protection.”

11—17-72 SI—277—72

 

For further information contact:
Mary Krug 38l~59ll

 

 




- "é » -- "'53. war
{‘3' “a Ti. ‘3' v {if we
"s 21% t; .i "3? vs“?

>9

from the Office of Public Affairs
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, DC. 20360

Telephone: (202) 381-5911
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

RIPLEY TO PRESENT ANIMAL WELFARE
INSTITUTE MEDAL TO RUSSELL TRAIN

S. DiTTon Ripiey, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, wiTT present the
AnimaT NeTfare Institute's annual ATbert Schweitzer MedaT to RusseTT E. Train,
Chairman of the CounciT on EnvironmentaT QuaTity, on Tuesday, November 2], at 3 p.m.
in the Nationai Museum of NaturaT History.

The ceremony wiTT take piace, appropriateiy, in the HaiT of Life in the Sea
under a fuTT—size modei of a biueiwhaie, one of the most spectacuTar of endangered

species.

Mr. Train wiTT be honored for his distinguished record oF conservation

activities, dating from Tong before his professionai invoivement in the Fieid. Hhiie
a judge on the U. S. Tax Court, he founded and was First president of the African
Niidiife Leadership Foundation. The Foundation provided training in wdeTiFe con—
servation to Africans and deveioped the Mweka CoTTege oi African MdeTife Management
in Tanzania, the first such institution in‘the deveToping countries. Mr. Train was
a vice president of the Horid WdeTife Fund during the same period, 1959—T969.

Mr. Train resigned from the Tax Court in 1965 to become president of the.

Conservation Foundation. He se ved as Under Secretary of the Department of the

WOVEN"-

 




-2-

Interior from l969—l970. In l970 he was named first Chairman of the Council on
Environmental Quality.

Mr. Train was leader of the U. S. delegation to the l972 U. N. Conference on
the Human Environment at Stockholm. He served also as the President's representa-
tive to the meeting of the International Whaling Commission in London.

Under his chairmanship, the Council has pursued a series of activities
involving threatened species, marine mammals, and general wildlife conservation,
among them the development of the governmental actions banning the use of poisons
for predator control on public lands, and changing the emphasis of the Federal
predator control programs from widespread killing to research and selective protection.

The Institute is a non~profit, educational organization that works to promote
the welfare of all animals, domestic and wild. It presents the Schweitzer Medal
each year to the “individual who has contributed most outstandingly during the year

to the advancement of animal protection.”

11—17—72 ' SI~277~72

 

For further infOrmation contact:
Mary Krug 381-5911

 

 




The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute
will be presented to Russell E. Train, Chairman of the President's
Council on Environmental Quality, on November glst at 3:00 p.m.,
in the Hall of the Life in the Sea of the Smithsonian Institution
Museum of Natural History.

Dr. S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
'will make the presentation. Chairman Train will receive the award
for his contributions to wildlife, and particularly to conservation
of the great whales. Appropriately, the ceremony will be held
under the life—size, 90 foot model of a blue whale, and songs of
the whales, recorded in the ocean, will provide background music.

Among other achievements for which Chairman Train is being
honored is his work on endangered species and other wildlife con—
servation. Judge Train founded and was first President of the

African Wildlife Leadership Foundation, President of the Conservation

Foundation, and Under Secretary of the Department of the Interior,

prior to being appointed by President Nixon as first Chairman of
the Council on Environmental Quality.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by the
Animal Welfare Institute to individuals who have made an outstanding
contribution to animal welfare. Past recipients of the award include
Rachel Carson and Hubert Humphrey. The Animal Welfare Institute
is an educational organization founded in 1951, devoted to the

welfare of animals, domestic and wild.

 




Portfolio

4..-”
1

YOUR HOROSCOPE

 

Happy
Shoﬂng

By JEANE DIXON
Special to The Star-um

YOUR BIRTHDAY: Opens
an auspicious period of get-
ting material resources better
organized. Increased respon-
sibility assumed this year
bringsgreat rewards fairly
soon if administered well.
Relationships must be care-
fully tended at first, then
thrive in happy sharing.
Today’s natives blend vision-
ary ideals with practical ev-
eryday wisdom.

ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19):
When there’s not so much
pressure to get things done,
you provoke rivalry or a dif-
ference of opinion among fel-
lows. Must you? It’s a special

solitude for deep thought.

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
Divergence from regular
schedule requires extra atten-
tion; the earlier, the better.
It’s a productive day, with
some happy news to cele-
brate. Be temperate in all
things. >

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
Traditional ceremonies and
customs show their merits.
Enjoy what you have, for
what it is; leaving aside striv-
ings and schemes for another
time.

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
It’s a pleasant day if you can
go along with the general
drift. Later in the day diver-
sions, changes of plan are
. ... .. N.~..

 




Tine Directors o; tine Animag Weagare Enstitaﬁe

request tine LOHOI‘ OE your PTCSCHCC

at tine Presentation 53y
S Diagon Ripaey

Seeretar 0E tile Smitinsonian institution
y

0E tLC
Seaaweitzer Awamﬁ Eor 3972

to

Russeﬂﬁ Erroﬂ Train

CLairman of tile Council} on Environmental Quality
on Tuesday, the twentyugirst o; Novemker

at tlxree o’clock

TLC ”a” 0E Lige in the Sea
Natural History Builéing
Magison Drive on tLe Ma“ at Tentil Street

R.S.V.P.
Mrs. Roger Stevens Reception {ollowing

1686 34rd: Street, NH‘V tile ceremony

 




TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL REPORT

Mother and infant humpback Whale
photographed from below.

From THE WHAbE: Mighty Monarch of the Sea by Jacques-Yves
Cousteau. Copyright ©1972 by Jacques-Yves Cousteau. Repro-
duced by permission of Doubleday & Company, Inc.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

 




 

TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
lune 31, 1971 to Iuly 1, 1972

The Whale, Symbol of the Stockholm Conference

At the first conference on the environment, United Nations delegates
voted 53-0 to support the United States proposal for a ten-year international
moratorium on the commercial killing of whales. Coming as it did after a
series of unsuccessful proposals by our country, this heartening unanimity
pointed a new direction, and the whale became the symbol of the Confer-
ence held in Stockholm, June 5-16, 1972.

Animal Welfare Institute members and readers of the quarterly Infor-
mation Reports are aware of the continuing efforts made by the Institute
to educate a wide public to the desperate need for the protection of whales
and dolphins.

Following the “Save the Whale” booth presented by the Animal Wel-
fare Institute at the 1971 convention of the National Science Teachers As-
sociation, an exhibit aimed at the protection of the smaller cetacea, the dol-
phins and porpoises, was mounted for the 1972 convention.

At the annual meeting of the International Whaling Commission in
London, June 26—30, our country lost in the vote for a moratorium on whale
killing, but the vote: 4 - 6 with 4 abstentions was close enough to give pause
to the Russians and the Japanese who, between them, kill 85% of the 35,000
odd whales killed each year. The head of the US. delegation, The Hon.
Russell Train, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality, pro-
posed that the press be admitted to hear the discussions of the Conference,
but (such is the ingrained power and tradition of the Whalers) not a single
country was brave enough to second his motion! Chairman Train was not
easily deterred, however. Later in the week after the vote on the mora-
torium he called a press conference at the American Embassy and told the
press how each country’s delegate had voted. The delegates from Norway
and Australia voted against the moratorium, although those countries had
supported it in Stockholm. The delegate from Canada abstained, although
Canada, too, had voted with 52 other countries at Stockholm to support a
10—year international moratorium. The closed doors of the International
Whaling Commission were finally opened and the commercialism which
has dictated its so—called “conservation” activities plainly displayed.

The Animal Welfare Institute will continue to fight for protection of
the whales and dolphins through every avenue open to it.

Publications

This year more than 1,100 Chiefs of Police requested copies of the
Animal Welfare Institute book, Animals and Their Legal Rights. The re-
quests came in as a result of a special mailing offering single free copies
to the Chiefs in a. move to encourage better enforcement of state and local
anti-cruelty laws and to acquaint police forces with existing federal laws
for the protection of animals.




,g,-- AN‘

, ...~.4

The use of the Animal Welfare Institute manuals Basic Care of
Experimental Animals and Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
in universities for teaching purposes continues. Dr. Robert D. Powers, As-
sociate Professor, School of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn University, wrote
on November 2, 1971: “I would like to acknowledge receipt of 240! copies
each of ‘Basic Care of Experimental Animals’ and ‘Comfortable Quarters
for Laboratory Animals.’

“I would like to express my appreciation to the Animal Welfare In-
stitute for supplying me with this excellent teaching material. These publi-
cations are extremely helpful to me in teaching a course in Laboratory Ani-
mal Medicine here in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Each student is
allowed to keep a copy of each publication for his future reference. Some
students will be entering the military service following graduation, and I
feel that these publications will be most helpful to them. Other students
will be going into graduate research following graduation, and I am sure
that these publications will supply much of the basic data that will be
needed in this area. Those students who will be going into private prac-
tice following graduation will find these publications most useful in two
areas: (1) They will be helpful in designing the animal facilities that will
be needed in their practices, and (2) They will be helpful in supplying
much of the basic data on those laboratory animals that are kept by people
as pets. Thank you very much for your help.”

At the end of the period covered by this report “Facts About Furs,”
by Dr. F. Jean Vinter, was in galley proof with publication expected in the
autumn. Illustrations will include photographs of fur bearers caught by the
cruel leghold trap, and also of domestic animals inadvertently caught and
maimed in traps set for furbearers. A single free copy will be supplied on
request to any humane society; others may purchase it for one dollar. In
the United Kingdom it will be distributed by the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

A new reprint for science teachers, “The Science Fair and the Ex-
perimental Animal . . . ,” from the June 1972 issue of the Seccan N ews was
made available for distribution by the Animal Welfare Institute. The article
documents the important progress made in Canada in the past year in put—
ting an end to experiments by high school students which hurt or kill ani-
mals. Dr. Harry Rowsell, Professor of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Ottawa, and Permanent Secretary, Canadian Council on
Animal Care, has played a leading role in this important reform and has
enlisted the Canadian veterinary profession in carrying it out. The Youth
Science Foundation in Canada makes needed information available to teach—
ers, students, and sponsors of science fairs. Canada has now set a stand—
ard which the United States should strive to match.

Following are statistics on distribution of Animal Welfare Institute
publications for the year:

Manuals distributed to scientific institutions at their request:

1,384 c0pies of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, 78-page manual
for animal caretakers. Spanish Edition—585 copies.

969 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, 103-page
collection of floor plans, construction details and equipment.

 

 




 

23 copies of Humane Experimental Technique, by Russell and Burch.
Manuals distributed to teachers at their request:

3,869 copies of First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 46—page illustrated
manual.

2,866 copies of Hnmane Biology Projects, 48—page illustrated manual.

487 copies of S tndying onr Fellow Mammals, 172-page illustrated book.
(Out of print until funds are donated for printing costs).

Reprints and statements distributed to high school teachers:

3,183 copies of “Boundaries of Use of Animals in High School Biology,”

by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted from The Science Teacher, Febru-
are,'1968.

1 “12,448 copies of “Attitudes Toward Animals,” by Christine Stevens,
reprintedfrom The American Biology Teacher, February, 1970.

' 4,366 copies 9f “Better Nutrition Studies,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph';D.,
reprlnted from The American BiologyTeacher, November, 1970. 'l ‘

. . 1,745 icopiesof “PainleSs Animal Experimentation,” by F. Barbara. Or-
lans, Ph.D., reprinted from Scholastic Teacher, April, 1970.

2,400 copies of “Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School

Biology Students and Reasons why Animal Experiments by High SCh001
Students Should, be Painless.”

1,227 copies of “Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,” by W.W-
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University.

850 copies of “High School Science Coordinator Devises System to Pre-
vent Cruel or Hazardous Science Fair Projects,” by William Dunkum, Co-
ordinator for Mathematics and Science, Alexandria City Public Schools, Alex-

andria, Virginia.
Leaflets distributed for the elementary grades included:
4,753 copies of “Kittens and Cats.”
1,300 copies of “You and Your Dog.”
5,250 copies of “Good Kind Lion.”

t. 200 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Edn-
ca ion.

. Approximately 20,000 miscellaneous leaflets were distributed. Two pub-
lications of general interest were distributed as follows: .

1,173 copies of “Animal Expressions,” with 106 photographs illustrat-

ing the .concepts of Charles Darwin’s “Expression of the Emotions in Man
and Anlmals.”

1833 copies of “Animals and [heir |,e a1 Ri hts ” 216— a e a b k
" w ‘ ‘ , per ac
by Emlly Ste art Leavitt and other authorsi.3T g p g p

 

 




Laboratory Animal Consultant Program

Seven laboratories in or near Mexico- City were visited by Dorothy Dyce,
Animal Welfare Institute Laboratory Animal Consultant, when she went
to Mexico to attend the International Veterinary Congress last August.
Shocking conditions were discovered in the animal rooms of the Mexican
Social Security Institute, and Mrs. Dyce moved actively to obtain the des-
perately needed improvements. In addition to- registering complaints locally
an urgent request for help for the animals was addressed to the Ford Foun-
dation which gives grants to the Social Security Institute. A description of
the situation including photographs of some of the animals and the quarters
in which they were housed was published in the Animal Welfare Institute
Information Report, Vol. 20, No. 3.

Following are excerpts from a letter Mrs. Dyce wrote to Mr.‘ William
H. Nims, Assistant Secretary of the Ford Foundation, May 5, 1972, correct—
ing material circulated by the Ford Foundation to humanitarians who wrote
letters of complaint.

The Relationship between the Ford Foundation and the Mexican
Institute of Social Security

When I was in the Department of Surgery on the third ﬂoor of the
Mexican Institute of Social Security and complained about the conditions
for the animals, I asked one of the veterinarians where they received the
funds for their research. One of them told me that the Mexican Institute
of Social Security is funded by The Ford Foundation. I told the veteri-
narian that I had met Mrs. Ford and I was certain that she would do
something to help if she were aware of the dreadful conditions as outlined
in our letter of September 17, 1971. I told him that I would contact Mrs.
Ford and that is precisely what I did.

In your letter you state that “Grant Support (Ford Foundation) is
provided only to the Division of Reproductive Biology in the Institute’s
Research Department. It represents a very small portion of the operating
budget of the division. Furthermore the division does not use any of the
animals referred to in Mrs. Dyce’s letters and in the Report.”

In the last paragraph of the ﬁrst page of your letter you continue by
saying “The small animals used in research in reproductive biology,
partially supported by a Foundation grant, are housed in a new facility
located in a separate building on the campus of the Medical Center.
Though Mrs. Dyce did not visit these new facilities, we promptly investi-
gated the conditions referred to in the article and in Mrs. Dyce’s letters.
In these investigations the Foundation sought and received the full coop-
eration of the oﬂicials of the Department of Research, who we are sure
would also have appreciated the Opportunity of seeing the Report article
prior to publication.”

You are mistaken, Mr. Nims, I did visit this new animal building described
in Dr. Moore’s report on page two of your letter. When I Visited this new
animal building in August of 1971 it had recently been completed and
was equipped with stainless steel cages. However, there were no animals
in the building as it was not formally opened at that time.

It would seem, then, that the animals used in the Division of Reproductive
Biology, partially supported by a Ford Foundation grant, must have been
some of those which I saw on the third ﬂoor of the Institute’s Research

 

 




 

 

Department. I was told that the third ﬂoor was the only ﬂoor where
animals were housed.

What type of animals are used in the Division of Reproductive Biology?
I saw dogs, cats, kittens, rabbits and chickens. Although monkeys are
used on the third ﬂoor of the Institute’s Research Department I did not
see them because the room in which they are housed was locked. The
doctor in charge of the monkeys was not available and he, apparently,
is the only one who has a key to the monkey room. Perhaps the monkeys
are used in the study of reproductive biology. If so, we would be pleased
to know how these animals are housed. We already know how the other
animals were housed at the time I was there in August, 1971.

Correspondence Exchange between Mr. John F unari, the Foundation’s
representative in Mexico City, and myself

Mr. Funari’s letter of November 23, 1971 in answer to mine of September
17, 1971 did not indicate in any way that grant support from The Ford
Foundation is provided only to the Division of Reproductive Biology, a
Research Department in the Mexican Institute of Social Security. A glance
at his letter will conﬁrm this statement.

Report of the physician member of the Foundation’s Mexico City staﬁ
who investigated our complaint

While our letter of September 17, 1971 (with photographic documentation
enclosed) speciﬁcally outlined conditions on the third ﬂoor of the research
building, the physician did not visit this area. In his report he stated that
he visited the new animal building and found things to be satisfactory.
For some unknown reason he did not visit the area we complained about
although it is within walking distance from this new animal building.
This new building is designed to house “small animals.” Since there were
no animals in the building at the time I was there I cannot say whether

the cages are large enough to accommodate the animals which now
occupy them.

Dr. Moore’s report as outlined on page two of your letter

I did not Visit this Department (Department of Experimental Surgery)
today, but have visited it several times in the recent past and always
found it to be clean, well-ventilated, with good attention to the animals’
nutrition and general handling.

It may be that the photographs referred to were taken during a transi-
tIOI‘l period, though even at that time (three months ago) all the small

animal quarters, which may have been somewhat crowded and smelly,
were essentially clean.

The eleven photographs which we included with our letter of complaint
clearly showed the “crowding of the animals.”

Mr. and Mrs. Walsh, who were with me the day the photographs were
taken, agree that it was more than “somewhat crowded and smeIIY-”
In fact, Mrs. Walsh who spent less than two or three minutes in the dog
room became quite ill and had to go outside for air.

I ﬁnd it diﬂﬁcult to understand how the animal quarters can be essentially
clean and smelly at the same time as described by Dr. Moore.




Dr. Moore’s Visit to the large animals shelter (I do not understand
the use of the word “shelter”—the Mexican Institute of Social Secu-
rity is clearly a research institution which should not be confused
with a “shelter” ) in early December, 1971 as outlined on page three
of your letter

1. There are approximately 125-150 dog's now housed in this area.

This is a great increase over the “few large animals (dogs and sheep)
on the third ﬂoor of the research building” as noted in his November
report.

Having seen the two dog rooms I can’t imagine how 125-150 dogs could
be housed in them. It must be even more crowded now than it was when
I was there in August of 1971.

2. They are released for extensive exercise once or twice a week and
are exercised for brief periods during the course of the week.

 

Since the aisle space between the cages is so narrow (substantiated in 1
photographs of the two dog rooms) it would be impossible for 125—150

dogs to be “exercised extensively.” There is no special exercise area so

I cannot imagine where the dogs would go for this exercise period—brief

or otherwise.

3. Dogs will not continue to be housed in their present facilities; a new
modern ‘animal farm’ is being planned to house all of the animals used
by the Mexican Institute of Social Security. Dr. Moore found only one
cage that he considered to be too small, and even in this one case the
dog was perfectly able to stand up without scraping his back.

We are delighted that dogs will not continue to be housed in their present
facilities. They should not have been housed there in the ﬁrst place. We
hope the new “animal farm” will include pens as suggested in our
September 17, 1971 letter rather than cages. The dogs will be no better
off on an “animal farm” in a rural area if they continue to be confined
in small, rusty cages.

If Dr. Moore found just one dog which he considered too large for his
cage on his December visit then the dogs must be much smaller than they
were in August, 1971. The dog population was considerably less than
125-150 dogs when I was there in August and our photographs clearly
show dogs whose heads are scraping the t0ps of the cages.

4. The decrease in dog population reported in Dr. Moore’s earlier visit
was temporary, but, at the same time, the present large dog population
can also be considered temporary.

This does indicate that “erroneous impressions” can be conveyed, since
in Mr. Funari’s letter of November 23, 1971, Dr. Moore stated that he did
not visit this facility at that time. Now, you state that he did visit it at
that time.

5. Cats and kittens are not ‘crammed into cages’; they are kept in a
communal area or in the new small animal building on which Dr. Moore
reported to you in my letter to you of 23 November.

Cats and kittens were “crammed into cages” when I visited this facility
in August of 1971. We have photographs to conﬁrm this as well as two
witnesses, Mr. and Mrs. Walsh. The cats and kittens were in small cages
designed for housing rabbits. They were in the small room adjacent to the
large dog room. Rabbits, too, were housed in the same room in cages the

 




 

same size as those in which the cats and, kittens were “crammed in
together.”

Some of the cats I saw were in a “communal area” and we did not com-
plain about this. In fact, I complimented the veterinarians on this type of
housing and could not understand why other cats and kittens were
crammed into cages when communal housing was available.

If cats (as stated in Dr. Moore’s Report) are housed in the new building
I hope they are not kept in the cages which I saw since the stainless
steel cages in the new animal building are not high enough to house a cat.

6. There are still some animals housed in ‘the small room’ as you
describe it, on the third floor. The ‘large hole’ is in fact an open light-well,
with a covered shelter on the entire periphery.

Obviously, Mr. Nims, you have not personally visited this facility, or you
would not make such a statement. I will describe it to you. As you enter
the animal quarters, you walk into the larger room where dogs are
housed. There are two smaller rooms on either end of this larger room.
The room on the left (as you enter the larger room) is used for housing
dogs. In this room there is an open light-well, with a covered shelter on
the entire periphery. However, the small room on the other end is also
used to house research animals.

This is the room where I saw the cats and kittens crammed together into
small cages. Rabbits and chickens are also housed in this room. (At
least they were in August, 1971.)

This is the room with the large gaping hole in the roof. In fact, I asked
the veterinarian how long the hole had been. in the roof and he answered,
“For a long time!”

Our photographs unquestionably confirm that there was a large hole in
the roof in August, 1971. The photograph, incidentally, was taken by an
employee of the Mexican Institute of Social Security. Fortunately, I have
a witness. Mr. Walsh saw the large hole in the roof. He also heard the
veterinarian’s reply to my question. He also took a photograph of the
hole in the roof.

This, Mr. Nims, is not an open light-well, but a large, gaping hole in the
roof.

Poisoning of Predators Halted by Executive Order

On February eighth President Nixon issued a statement on “environ-
mental awakening” and barred, by Executive Order, the use of poisons £01”
predator control on all public lands. Secretary of the Interior, Rogers Mol‘tOn
stated, February 12th, that his Department had “started receiving poison baits
from federally owned ranch lands.” The Administration bill to give legislattiVe
authority to this important reform was introduced in the Senate by Senator
Warren Magnuson (D., Wash), Chairman of the Senate Commerce Com—
mittee, and by Congressman Edward Garmatz (D, Md.) Chairman of the
House Merchant Marine Committee. It was passed by the House of Repre—
sentatives, after amendment, on July 17, 1972.

More Spotted Cats Placed on Federal Endangered Species List

Importation of cheetah, leopard, tiger, snow leopard, jaguar, ocelot, maf—
gay and tiger cat was banned March 30, 1972 by Secretary of the Interior

 




 

Rogers Morton. No live animal, parts or products made from them may
now enter the United States, except under the economic hardship clause up

to March 30, 1973.

The Department of the Interior has also investigated the status of the
28 additional species of wild felines and Secretary Morton stated, “If the
hide hunters begin to threaten these species. I’ll not hesitate in listing them
as well.”

Animal Welfare Act Regulations

Regulations were promulgated December 24, 1971 under PL. 91-579,
the Animal Welfare Act, which amended and strengthened the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89-544. The new regulations cover animals in
zoos, circuses, auctions, the wholesale pet trade, pet shops selling exotic ani-
mals, and those parts of laboratory animal quarters not included in the
original Act.

Research institutions must now comply with the following regulation:
“It shall be incumbent upon each research facility through its animal care
committee and/or attending veterinarian to- provide guidelines and consulta-
tion to research personnel with respect to the type and amount of tranquiliz-
eTS, anesthetics, or analgesics recommended as being appropriate for each
species of animal used by that institution. The use of these three classes of
drugs shall effectively minimize the pain and discomfort of the animals while
under experimentation.”

Discussion by interested groups of space requirements for zoo and circus
animals and the opportunity for exercise for laboratory dogs and cats was
scheduled by the Animal Care Staff, Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service, US. Department of Agriculture prior to writing final regulatlons
relating to space.

"The Three R’s”

At the 1971 annual meeting of the American Association. for the Ad-
vancement of Science, the Animal Welfare Institute presented.a booth ex-
hibit featuring Replacement, Reduction and Refinement in biological research:
replacement of vertebrate animals with other experimental subjects or ma-
terials; reduction of numbers of animals; refinement of technique to reduce
pain and anxiety.

A computer averaging technique which permits studies in man, the sub-
ject of choice, rather than studies using implantation of electrodes in the
brains of cats and primates, was described in papers by Dr. Samuel M. Pea-
COCk, Jr. which were published in Electroencephailogmphy and C lzmcql N emo-
physiology. Dr. Peacock is a member of the Animal Welfare Institute Sc1—
entific Committee.

Papers by Dr. Arthur C. Guyton from Circulation Research illustrated
the concept of reduction since the computer augmented the data obtained
from animal experiments making it possible to reduce the number of ani-
mals used.

“These computer results,” Dr. Guyton wrote, “are-almostddentical with.
the results earlier in this paper from the animal experiments.

 




 

In October, the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare held a
symposium on the “Rational Use of Living Systems in Bio-Medical Research”
which included papers on substitution of tissue and organ cultures. These
papers have now been published by UFAVV and are available from its of—
fices or from the Animal Welfare Institute. Discussion from the floor in—
cluded emphasis on the need for experimental biologists to be better informed
on the selection of the appropriate animal or other experimental subject or
material. It is reported in the published symposium as follows: “Dr. Haigh
asked why insufficient attention was given to the issue of species specificity
in animal experimentation. Many results obtained in other species could in
no way be extrapolated to man. For example, if Chain and Florey in their
work on penicillin had used the guinea pig and the goat as experimental ani~
mals they would have concluded that this substance had such extreme tox—
icity that it was pointless to continue with this line of research. At the mo-
ment there seemed to. be no organization which could advise the research
worker as to which animals were most suitable for a particular type of
experiment.”

Schweitzer Medal

Senator Warren Magnuson (D., Wash.) who was a Schweitzer Medal-
list in 1967, presented the 1971 Schweitzer Medal to Congressman Thomas
Foley (D., Wash.) in a ceremony held in the old Supreme Court chambers
in The Capitol, December 14, 197 1. In accepting the award Congressman
Foley said:

“I am convinced that we are entering a new era in consciousness and
concern in this country over the conditions of life enjoyed by animals. The
legislation of the past three or four years is, as Senator Magnuson has said,
only the beginning, and I am sure that in the next decade we are going to
attack and successfully treat those areas that are still without adequate legis-
lation and protection. The effect of the Animal Welfare Act is going to be

largely felt not only in our country and in the influence it will have on the
values of our society, but it is going to be one of those things by which we
will offer international leadership. The United States, more than any other
nation, has written into the legislation and made part of its national com—
mitment, the care and concern for the welfare of animals. When we look
back, in some future century, on our society in the 1970’s it will be in this
commitment that we will find one of our brightest achievements.

“I am particularly happy to have the award presented here in this historic
room since it was early in our history a scene of inhumane conditions and
humane concern. For those of you who may not know it, at one time this
room was where the Senate of the United States met. In the decades prior
to the Civil War, ventilation was the infamy of man. At that time, visitors
would sit in the gallery and listen to the debates, all the while silently suffer—
ing and almost expiring at times from the oppressive heat. The only source
of relief were those humane Senators who used to take sticks and hand up
fresh fruits and other refreshments to the gallery. The determination of the
gallery watchers has always amazed me, even today.”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual Convention, Detroit,
Michigan, July 18-22, 1971. AWI booth exhibit.

Better Business Bureau of Metropolitan New York, Inc., Pet Industry
Symposium Program, New York, N.Y.; Christine Stevens spoke August
19, 1971, on “Consumer Problems and Animal Suffering in the Pet Industry.”

International Veterinary Congress, Mexico City, Mexico, August 16—21, 1971.

New York State Humane Association, Buffalo, NY. September 23-24, 1971 ;
Dorothy Dyce spoke.

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare Symposium on “The Rational
Use of Living Systems in Bio-Medical Research,” London, England, October
7-8, 1971.

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, Annual Session, New

York, N.Y., October 11—15, 1971.

National Association of Biology Teachers, Chicago, Illinois, October 12-16,
1971. AWI booth exhibit. Dr. F. Barbara Orlans’ paper presented.

Humane Society of the United States, Annual Convention, Providence, ‘Rhode
Island, October 15—17, 1971. Dr. F. Barbara Orlans spoke.

United States Animal Health Association, Animal Welfare Committee, Oc-
tober 25, 1971.

Animal Welfare Institute, Annual Meeting, Washington, D.C., December
14, 1971.

American Association for the Advancement of Science, Philadelphia, Penn—
sylvania, December 27—30, 1971. AWI booth exhibit.

National Science Teachers Association, Annual Convention, New York, N.Y.,
April 7-10, 1972. AWI booth exhibit.

Federal Legislation

November 18, 1971, PL. 92-159 to provide a criminal penalty for shoot-
ing at animals and birds from aircraft was approved by the President. On
June 5, 1972 the House of Representatives passed an amendment to place
enforcement authority in the Department of the Interior to prevent the law
from being disregarded.

December 15, 1971, PL. 92-195 an Act for the protection of wild
horses under the authority of the Secretary of the Interior was approved.

At the end of the period covered by this report the Marine Mammals
Protection Act had passed the House of Representatives and the Senate and
been referred to a conference committee to resolve the differences. This con-
troversial legislation brought about floor fights for both strengthening and
weakening amendments in both bodies. To assess the effectiveness of the
final version it will be necessary to observe the results of the law in its first
year of operation. In particular, the question of division of authority be-
tween the Secretary of the Interior and the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) was at issue and will
be under scrutiny by conservationists. Interior is given jurisdiction over

 




walruses, polar bears, and sea otters. NOAA administers whales, dolphins,
seals and manatees. There is serious concern that the orientation of NCAA
in the Department of Commerce will have an adverse effect on the needed
protection of these animals.

Information Reports

The quarterly Information Reports of the Animal Welfare Institute are
sent to some 25,000 different groups and individuals including AW I mem-
bers, public libraries, members of the 'Federation of American Societies for
Experimental Biology, Deans of Medical and Veterinary Medical Schools,
humane societies, and several thousand individual veterinarians, teachers, sci—
entists, administrators, librarians, and technicians who have asked to re—
ceive them. The Information Reports carried articles on the subjects already
mentioned in this Annual Report and, in addition, on new endangered spe—
cies laws passed by the States of Delaware and Massachusetts; on sea otter
deaths caused by Cannikin; on Science Magazine’s lead article, “Songs of
Humpback Whales,” by Roger Payne and Scott McVay; the AWI’s new
director, Cynthia Wilson; the rescinding of the Florida law permitting bull
fights; the smuggling of endangered species by Massimo Marriotti (Vol. 20,
No. 4). An article on rules to restrict high school animal experimentation by
the Houston Science Engineering Fair; a report on the formation of the
new Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service headed by Dr. F. J. Mul-
hern in the US. Department of Agriculture; Experimental Biological Con-
trol of the Peach Borer; development of a substitute for whale oil by the
Sun Oil Company as reported by Senator Hugh Scott (R., Penna); and
a threatened boycott of sealskins by the National Audubon Society in re-
sponse to proposals for sealing in the antarctic appeared in Vol. 21, No. 1.
Reports on progress of animal protection in other countries appeared in that
issue and in Vol. 21, No. 2 including British activities to protect whales
and other endangered species, and in Greece, the elimination of strychnine
to kill stray dogs, the adoption of humane slaughter devices, and the revoca-
tiOn of licenses of vessels in which animals transported were suffering a high
mortality.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s
much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. - Bennett Derby, M.D. - Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.
Paul Kiernan, M.D. - F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. - Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.-—United Kingdom
T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece - P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V.—France
Sydney Jennings, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.A.—Mexico - David Ricardo—Canada
N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Officers

Christine Stevens, President - Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary - Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Dorothy Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant - Barbara Gould, Publications Secretary

 




ME DALLIC ART COMPANY

IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THAT EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY
OUR NEW CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS AND IMPROVED PLANT
FACILITIES WILL BE LOCATED AT:

OLD RIDCEBURY ROAD
DANBURY, CONN. 068IO
(203) 792-3000
AS A CONVENIENCE TO OUR CUSTOMERS AND FRIENDS IN THE
METROPOLITAN NEW YORK AREA AND VICINITY, WE WILL
MAINTAIN A SALES OFFICE AND GALLERY TO BE LOCATED,
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, l972, AT:
708 THIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, N. Y. IOOI7
(212) 687-3060

 




 

October 19, 1972

Nadallic Art Company
Old Ridgebury Road
Danbury, Connecticut 06810
Please reply to:
1686 34th St., N.w.
'Washington, D.C. 20007
Gentlemen:

Please engrave the Schweitzer MBdal for this year
a& follows:

Russell Errol Train

1972

The engraved madal should be sent to as at: 1686
Buth Street, N.w., Washington, D.C.

Please acknowledge this order indicating‘When we
may axpect shipment and hww many medals will be left
in stock after this ona has been engraved.

Ybur continued cooparation is appreciated.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute
will be presented to Russell E. Train, Chairman of the President's
Council on Environmental Quality, on November 21st at 3:00 p.m.,
in the Hall of the Life in the Sea of the Smithsonian Institution
Museum of Natural History.

Dr. S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu—
tion, will make the presentation. Chairman Train will receive
the award for his contributions to the protection of wildlife,
especially endangered species; the preservation of habitat for
wild birds and mammals; and most recently, the conservation of
the great whales. Appropriately, the ceremony will be held under
the life—size, 90 foot model of a blue whale, and songs of the
whales, recorded in the ocean, will provide background music.

Judge Train founded and was first President of the African

Wildlife Leadership Foundation, President of the Conservation

Foundation, and Under Secretary of the Department of the Interior,
prior to being appointed by PreSident Nixon as first Chairman of
the Council on Environmental Quality.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by the
Animal Welfare Institute to individuals who have made an out—
standing contribution to animal welfare. Past recipients of the

award include Rachel Carson and Hubert Humphrey. The Animal

 




Welfare Institute is an educational organization founded in 1951,

devoted to the welfare of animals, domestic and wild.

 




MEDALLIC ART COMPANY
325 EAST 45 ST, - NEW YORK 10017

June 15, 1972

Medallic Art Company is pleased to announce its imminent move
to new corporate headquarters and manufacturing facilities in
Danbury, Connecticut. The accompanying reprint of one of our
recent advertisements is informative.

Please note for your records that effective September 1, our new
address will be:

Old Ridgebury Road
Danbury, Connecticut 16810
Telephone: (203) 792-3000

This move to enlarged and modern facilities will take place dur-
ing August and will entail some temporary curtailments of our
serVices. While the move has been planned purposely to coincide
with the normal vacation season, we ask your indulgence during
the transition.

Until September 1, please continue to address us-at 325 East 45
Street, New York, New York 10017. After that, we look forward
to serving you on a greatly improved basis from our new Connec-
ticut home.

TELEPHONE: (212) 679-1616 CABLE ADDRESS: MEDALLICOM

 




We’re building for the future.

The new home of Medallic Art Company is nearing completion.
Situated on 25 acres of beautiful hilltop in Danbury, Connec-
ticut and equipped with the most modern facilities for the re-
production of medallic sculpture, our new plant will enable us
efficiently to meet the ever-expanding needs of our diversified
clientele.

Only an hour’s drive from Manhattan, the dramatically
designed new building will feature sculpture, bronze facing,
bronze tinted glass and brick—symbolic of the product we have
been proud to produce since 1900.

An office in New York City will be maintained for the con-
venience of those unable to visit us in our new headquarters,
but we look forward to welcoming you to what we believe will
be the most distinctive home of the art medal in America.

 

Medallic Art Company
325 EAST 45th STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017

 

 




Qctdbar 31, 1972

@i$s Legg

I fargat ta ask ymn t9 aand ua a gallay at
strip list 3? the Mambara ligt, enly'thasa
in ﬁaryland, $irginia anﬁ tha Eigtriet 6f
thumbia. ﬁg will need ta acrean thig list
against bwn athars dim? harg far the inyitatieng
39 will amaraniata yam? $$nﬁing as this just
as 399a a5 gnu gasﬁikly-daa. 39nd it tn

ﬁrs. Stgvans hama aﬁéress: 1685 Bath Eiraet,
a.w;, waghiagtan, E‘Q. QQQG7a

Thanks very'mngh.

gingﬁrﬁﬁlys

Es“ ara {3911153
nistrativa ﬁaaigtart

 

 

 




