Published by the

BRITISH UNION FOR THE
ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION

ﬂ
Late President :

DR. WALTER R. HADWEN

London Centre: 47, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W.1.
Editorial Ofﬁce: 138, WIDEMARSH STREET, HEREFORD.

Foundress .-
Mrss FRANCES POWER COBBB

 

 

+ No. 2. Vol. XLVI]

‘ MARCH—APRIL, 1945

[Price 2d.

 

 

HEALTH AND DISEASE

» BOOK that has been lent to us is entitled Battle
for Health, by Stephen Taylor, M.D., M.R.C.P.,
published by NichOlson and Watson, London,

1944. «

Although we do not regard health as a state to be
. fought for so much as to ‘be maintained by the avoid-
ance of practices that produce ill-health and the removal
of the causes of disease, we nevertheless anticipated
that the book would be full of sound advice about
correct‘living. We were disappointed. Brieﬂy, it may
be said that “health” is dealt with from the stand-
point of attacking disease with a syringe!

On the front ﬂap of the cover it is stated that “ Dr.
Stephen Taylor is not a practising doctor in the ordinary
. sense of the word, though he has had experience of
general practice, hospital medicine, psychiatry, and
research. He gave up practice because he found that
most of the health problems of his patients were not
simply questions of a bottle of medicine or an operation,
but rather of economics, sociology, and psychology.”

After reading this, it is really amazing to see that the
book is based on the old—fashioned. text-book stories
relating to the alleged discoveries of Jenner, Pasteur,
etc., with support for a continuance of the injurious
practices of vaccination and inoculation.

For example, after the publication of a table which
shows that there has been no death—rate from smallpox
in England and Wales during recent years, while only
about a third of the babies were vaccinated, the author
says that “ the wise citizen will not exercise his rights
under the conscience clause.” It is impossible to
imagine circumstances that would provide less reason
.for this observation!

His plea for infant vaccination appears to be based
on the risk of post-vaccinal encephalitis if done in later
years. He argues that the risk of encephalitis is less
than the risk of smallpox; but he does not compare
the-risk of death from vaccination with the risk of death
from smallpox. As he seems to require some guidance in
his policy of choosing the lesser of two evils, we would
draw his attention to the fact that 314 children up to
5 years of age in England and Wales were killed by
, vaccination during, the 39 years ended 1943. But only
118 children up to ﬁve years of age died from smallpox
during the same period.

Dr. Taylor asserts that both the risk of encephalitis

. and the risk of smallpox

 

(

‘could have been avoided
if the child had been vaccinated when a baby.” The
answer to this is that in the absence of any deaths from
smallpox, among children, the latter risk can no longer
be said to exist. But deaths from encephalitis and
deaths from smallpox have occurred in young vaccinated
children in the past. So Dr. Taylor’s claim for infant
vaccination cannot be substantiated.

Next, we come to a chapter on Rabies. As the author
admits that “ rabies or hydrophobia no longer occurs in
Britain,” the chapter is obviously out of place in a book
on the preservation of health in this country, but-it may
be of useful interest to refute a few of the statements
in it. For instance, it is stated that “ if, after biting or
licking, the dog does not develop rabies within 10 days,
the bitten person is in no danger.” Presumably, this
also applies to the licked person. But what about the
persons who have received the Pasteur treatment and
died of: rabies, while the dogs that bit them have
remained alive and shown no signs of having the disease P
This fact has been put forward by medical critics to
prove that the treatment can cause “experimental
rabies” in human beings. . '

The statement is made that “despite Pasteur, there
were 104 deaths in England and Wales from rabies in
the last 10 years of the last century. Since then, there
have been ’only some 5 cases reported . . .”

Dr. Taylor attributes this prevention of disease to the
quarantine regulations in regard to imported dogs, and
his comment on it is worth noting :—— .

“ Rabies in Britain has been virtually wiped out
It has been done not by medical science, but by common
sense; not in the laboratory, but in Parliament.”

Dr. Taylor says that without treatment rabies is.
invariably fatal.- If so, it must also be fatal with treat-
ment, because even Pasteur himself did not claim that
he could cure the disease; he sought to prevent it.
And there is no proof that he did. On the contrary,
the records of thousands of cases of hydrophobia fol~
lowing the treatment given at the Pasteur Institutes
show that he was wrong in assuming that hydrophobia
could be prevented by such means. Indeed, it would
have been strange had the pain and suffering which
Pasteur inﬂicted on dogs been rewarded by a beneﬁt to
mankind. Nature does not hand out her gifts for such
dastardly work.

 




 

l0 - ' , THE »ABOLITIONIST

March—April, I945

 

In regard to Diphtheria, Dr. Taylor boastslthat ‘-‘ we
, know how to Cure it and to prevent it.” Had the
medical profession been able to cure diphtheria there

would have been no need for immunisation! The

reduced death—rate is easily accounted for by the fact
that the disease has been getting gradually milder. It
may certainly be prevented by sanitary precautions and
the avoidance of overcrowding. But the ofﬁcial ﬁgures
show that over 20,000 cases of diphtheria have been
recorded in fully immunised children in Britain within
the last few years, so this proves conclusively that
immunisation will not prevent the disease.

A large amount of space is devoted to the subject of
Venereal Disease. After giving an outline of the history
of syphilis, the author refers to the experiments per-
formed, in 1911, by Paul Ehrlich, a German Jew working
at Frankfurt. Dr. Taylor says that at his 606th attempt
Ehrlich “ produced an organic arsenic compound which
would’kill the spi10chaetes in the body, while leaving the
. body tissues unharmed. This substance he called
salvarsan.”

He then goes on to say that salvarsan “ has now been
replaced by a similar but safer compound, neo—salvarsan.”
But if salvarsan left the body tissues “ unharmed,”
how can the neo—salvarsan be “ safer ” P

The fact is that salvarsan, neo—salvarsan, and all the
other varieties which have been introduced, are danger—
ous. Furthermore, they are not even efﬁcacious, as
after weekly injections for as long as two or three years
the course often has to be ﬁnished with the mercurial
or some other treatment.

An'article entitled ” Studies on Hepatic Dysfunction ”,
by J. Beattie, M.D., D.Sc., and J. Marshall, M.B., was
published in the British 114 edical journal of Nov. 18th.
last. The authors refer to the fact that over 50 per cent.
of all cases treated entirelyat a clinic during the years
1942 and 1943 showed “ post-arsphenamine jaundice.”
That is to say, damage to the liver caused by the arsenic
treatment. This necessitated withholding the arsenic
during the attack of jaundice and for some weeks or
months after, thereby diminishing ‘the chances of a
cuie of the syphilitic infection.”

The conclusion reached by the authors of the article
was that “ men undergoing antisyphilitic . treatment
should receive dietary supplements as a prophylactic
measure against jaundice.” This measure is said to
defer injury to the liver. until a later stage in the treat-
ment, and to moderate the severity of the liver damage
when it occurs. It is not claimed that it will prevent
injury to the liver, and so that complication remains a
serious risk.

It was stated in an editorial article on “ Penicillin
and Spiral Organisms ” in the British Medical ] carnal
of December 2nd, 1944, that “ the place of penicillin
in the treatment of syphilis is now almost assured, if

long-term results are satisfactory it may replace the ’

arsenicals altogether, at least for the primary form of
the disease.”

Thus, the glory of the great discovery of “ 606 ”
fades away!

There is a very inadequate chapter on Surgery,
covering exactly one page. The unprofessional chapter
heading of “ The Knife ” and the small amount of space
allotted to the subject are sufﬁcient to indicate the
author’s apparent desire to detract from the achieve-
ments of the only branch of medical service that has

 

made remarkable progress. This progress, it may be
added, is not in any way due to experiments on animals.

We have heard it said outside the medical profession,
but never before by a medical man, that‘ ‘surgery is a
measure of the failure of medicine to cope with disease.”
This half— truth is unfair to medicine; the vast majority
of cases of disease are not operable, and the chief use
of surgery is in connection with injuries.

Then, we are told that “ as the new biochemical
medicine is being born, the surgeon ﬁnds the laboratory
worker curing swiftly and easily with a powder what

he used to cure laboriously and less certainly with the
knife. ”

We know of nothing to justify this statement and as

Dr. Taylor does not attempt to do so, we can only con-
clude that he has an exaggerated idea of the value of
the laboratory worker and his claims.

If, however, he has in mind the use of sulphonamides
We would draw his attention to an article entitled
“ Anaerobic Infections of War Wounds in the Middle
East,” published in The Lancet, July 31, 1943, in which
it was pointed out that the incidence of gas gangrene

was little less than it was in France in 1918, ”despite ‘

the prophylactic use of sulphonamides and, to a less
extent, of antitoxin.”

The comments in the leading article of The Lancet
were as follows: ——

‘ It may be that the Surgeon has pinned his faith too much
to the sulphonamides, which have been disappointing both in
prevention and in treatment, and has not been radical enough
in the surgical toilet of the wound. If so, he has had his lesson,
and it cannot be too strongly urged that other prophylactic
measures are no substitute for early and thorough debride-
ment.”

After approving of Lister’s idea of killing the germs,
Dr. Taylor admits that “ it was found better to keep
the germs out from the ﬁrst and spare the tissues the
physical corrosion of the antiseptics; and so aseptic
surgery began.” He has not, however, the fairness to
say to whom we are indebted for aseptic surgery, which
was successfully carried on when Lister was still using
the antiseptic method. Semmelweis, Dr. Syme, Lawson
Tait, Granville Bantock, and Sir William Savory are
names that should never be forgotten in connection
with this chapter of medical history. Their successful
results by means of strict cleanliness and asceptic
surgery were phenomenal. What humanity owes to
these ploneers of asepsis is beyond all computation.
Yet Dr. Taylor does not even mention them.

The removal of infection is cited as one of the aims of
the surgeon, and then the statement is made that “ as
the biochemist masters each new pus-producing germ with
M. and B. or penicillin, or pantoyltaurine, so the surgeon’s
field gets smaller.”

In an article on “The True Story of Penicillin”, by
Professor Sir Howard W. Florey, M.B., B.S., M.A.,
B.Sc., Ph.D., F.R.S., published in New Health, January,
1945, we are told that the sulphonamide group of drugs
“ are rendered largely ineffective by pusor tissue break-
down products.” So they certainly have not reduced

‘ the ﬁeld for the surgeon’s “ knife ” 1

In conclusion, we may say that, if a patient’ 3 health
problems are ‘not simply questions of a bottle of
medicine or an operation,” it seems to be very much
more obvious that they are not simply a question of
inoculating the products of disease.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

*2 A... .7. “an 9-5 ,4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

March-April, I945

THE .ABOLITIONIST ' H

 

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Treatments without Vivisection

We have been pleased to receive the Annual Report
for 1944 of The Nature Cure and Anti-Vivisection Clinic
and Hospital, the temporary address of which is 14,
Dorset Square, London, N.W.1.

The Report begins as follows :——~

In this, the sixth year of war, we are able to record with satis-

, faction and gratitude the fact that the Nature Cure Clinic has

completed yet another 12 months of steady, beneﬁcent work, in
the course of which a great many persons have been given renewed
health and hope.

We offer our congratulations to the Clinic, and quote

- another passage, which will be heartily endorsed by

anti—Vivisectionists :—

“ Natural Therapeutics, if practised by the entire race, would
make the world a much happier place and rid it of much cruelty
and suffering, both to human beings and to the non— —human forms
of life at present so mercilessly exploited.”

In wishing the Nature Cure and Anti—Vivisection Clinic
and Hospital continued progress in their truly humani—
tarian work, we would mention that the Report ends
with an appeal to their subscribers to get new supporters.
We feel that anti-vivisectionists should do what they can
to support and make more widely known this practical
means of lessening the reliance so unjustiﬁably placed
upon experiments on animals and the treatments derived
from them.

>1: ' >1: >1:
Malaria : Experiments with Ducklings

A note which appeared in Nature (21/10/44) refers to
experiments performed by H. R. Jacobs with the object
of finding something that would give immunisation
against malaria.

— It is stated that a substance described as “ an extract
of protamide plasmodial precipitate insoluble 'in saline
solution ” gave ' “ practically 100 per cent. immunity to
malaria ”—When injected subcutaneously into ducklings.

The note ends with the information that “ Jacobs
does not claim that immunity is produced, but that
effective protection against malaria is obtained; and he
feels that the way is opened for the preparation of a good
vaccine which will provoke an immunity so powerful
that overwhelming doses of the parasites will be neutra—
lised quickly.’

The manufacturing chemists will doubtless feel grate-
ful to the experimenter for opening the way to the
production of another vaccine; and they will perhaps
not exercise their minds too much over the puzzle of the
difference between “ immunity ” and “ effective pro-
tection.” Nature is apparently unable to solve it, as the
note is headed “ Immunisation against Malaria.”

* a: a:

“ Human Guinea-Pigs ”

An account of the work of the Friends’ Ambulance
Unit was given by Mr. Tony Allt at a meeting of the
Fellowship of Reconciliation, reported in the Weston-
super-M are Gazette of February 3rd.

We were interested to read that “ over 100 members
have become human guinea—pigs for medical research,
allowing themselves to be bitten by malaria-infected
mosquitoes, living on dehydrated food, being tilted at
an angle of 70 degrees till the blood pressure dropped and

l

 

respirations soared, being in the ‘hot-room’ for hours
on end and having the blood supply cut off for a time.”

It is always claimed that experiments on animals are
performed for the purpose of saving human beings from
experimentation, but these experiments show that the
millions and millions of experiments on animals cannot
be substituted for experiments on man.

* * >i<

Diphtheria Antitoxin '
A letter headed “ Inoculation Against Diphtheria’,
signed R. E. ReWell, M D, M. R. C. P., was published in

j The Listener of February 1st.

Dr. Beddow Bayly sent the following reply, and it
appeared in The Listener of February 15th: ——

INOCULATION AGAINST DIPHTHERIA
“ A correspondent in The Listener of February lst states that
‘Serum is not used in diphtheria prophylaxis. I should like to
point out in turn that The Listener was right and the doctor quite
wrong. The fact is that antitoxic serum, derived from a horse,
is a constituent of one of the most widely used diphtheria pro—
phylactics used in this country, namely T. A. F. (Toxoid Anti-
toxin Floccules). This product is almost invariably used for
nursing staffs and for children over nine years, on account of its
comparative freedom from reactions. Dr. James Grant, in The
Lancet, January 13th,1945 (page 46), states that in Gateshead
during 1943, ‘children over nine years of age were treated by
three injections, each of 1 c. cm. T. A. F. As its full name implies,
this substance is composed of toxoid, that is toxin heated or
otherwise neutralised, and antitoxin, which is the serum taken
from a horse which has been immunised by increasing 'doses of
toxin or toxoid. These two are mixed together and form
ﬂoccules. According to Evans’ journal, Vol. 4, No. 2 (November,
1938), T. A F. ‘has the same disadvantage as T. A M. ,resulting
from the horse protein in its composition. b’.—M Beddow Bayly,
M....,RCS L....,RCP Camberley. ”

The Wassermann Test

The unreliability and inadequacy of the Wassermann
test is well shown in the follOwing extract from the

"Medical World, December 8th, 1944 :——~

“ Dr. E. E. Pebble (The Indian Physician, May, 1944) warns
that the Wassermann reaction may not become positive for
four months after inoculation with syphilis, and that after the
third year of the disease the reaction tends to become inconstant
and may even remain negative in the face of active visceral
lesions of syphilis. A negative Wassermann of itself does not
mean “ cure,” nor does it indicate freedom from infection. Often

,1 in cases of tabes dorsalis both the blood and cerebro-spinal ﬂuid

tests are proved to be completely negative. Obviously, there—
fore, in late syphilis clinical judgment is of more value than

' laboratory tests. ”

* * *

Unsafe Vaccination

We learn from a news item in the Glasgow Evening
News of February 5th that there has been a severe
epidemic of smallpox in Calcutta during the last three
months, the recorded number of deaths totalling more
than 2,000 i

It is stated that half— —a- m—illion people are seriously
perturbed because of a declaration that the lymph
used to vaccinate large numbers of persons was unsafe.

Their fears were aggravated by a statement from
Gandhi’s physician, Dr. B. C. Roy, to the effect that
re-vaccination in such a short period might prove
damaging to the body tissues.

But vaccination can never be called “ safe,” and it
must always be to some extent damaging to the body
tissues“ The marks alone prove that to be so

 




 

l2 THE ABOLITIONIST‘

March—April, I94

 

Coroner on Vaccination

Arthur Michael Watts, a fourr-months—old baby,
had been ill since he was vaccinated on September 29th,
and died on October 14th, a few hours after being
admitted to the \Neston~super—Mare General Hospital.

In View of the fact that nearly three times as many
children are killed by vaccination compared with those
who die from smallpox, and that the illness in this case
appeared to date from the time of that operation, it
was not surprising that a rumour should have gone round
the neighbourhood attributing the death to vaccina-
tion. But at the Coroner’s inquiry, reported in the
V/eston-saper—Mare Gazette of November 11th, 1944, the
medical evidence was to the effect that the cause of
death was unConnected with the vaccination.

Dr. Marcus Weiss, House Surgeon, said the baby was
moribund on admission to the Hospital, and was found
to have a large bruise over the left ribs, a smaller bruise
in the middle of the back, and two discoloured spots on
the lower leg.

These discolourations were symptoms of purpura,
which Dr. A. D. Fraser, Bristol,‘ who performed the
post-mortem examination, said “ is always a surprise
and is very unusual in a baby.”

Dr. Fraser told Mrs. Watts that he was quite satisﬁed
that her baby had died as a result of meningeal haemorr-
hage due to purpura resulting from inﬂuenzal gastritis,
and when she asked “ What exactly is inﬂuenzal' gas—
tritis ? ” he replied: “I do not know. The medical
profession does not know any more than you.”

In recording his verdict, the Coroner said :,-~~

” Mrs. Watts, this is a case‘where good may have come out
of evil, because as a result of very careful investigations, it is
abundantly apparent that vaCcination played no part in your
son’s death. Neither the method nor the vaccine was in any
way 1n]ur10us. -

“ It may be some consolation to you, certainly as I believe
and hope, that when the result of this inquiry is made generally
known, it will allay any suspicions that vaccination might in
certain circumstances produce evil effects. There is not the
slightest grounds for such suggestions.

“ I am quite satisﬁed that your baby died as a result of what
is usually described as natural causes. In this case it was an
inﬂuenzal type of gastritis, the cause of which is still obscure.
How it arises is not known.

“ The purpura was centred practically on the brain and this
produced a hamorrhage of the brain covering, and this in its

_ turn was the actual cause of death.”

“ I am perfectly satisfied,” replied the mother.

It is perhaps worth noting that although no con—
nection between vaccination and the hamorrhage of
the brain covering was shown in this case,‘ there is a
well—known form of inﬂammation of the brain which is
caused by vaccination. This deadly disease is termed
“ post—vaccinal encephalitis.” .

' a: i * *
Chesterton on Vivisection

G. K. Chesterton’s views on Vivisection were ex—
pressed in 'a short essay entitled “ Christmas.” This
is one of a collection of Essays published by Methuen,
in 1908, under the title of' “ All Things Considered.”

The famous author, who referred to himself as “a
strong anti—vivisectionist,” ended his arguments against
the cruel practice in the following way :—

“ Now it always seems to me that this is the weak point in

the ordinary vivisectionist argument, ‘ Suppose your wife were,

dying ? ’ Vivisection is not done by a man whose wife is dying.
If it were it might be lifted to the level of the moment, as would
be lying, or stealing bread, or any other ugly action. But this

 

ugly action is done in cold blood, at leisure, by men who are not
sure that it will be of any use to anybody——-men of whom the
most that can be said is that they may conceivably make the
beginnings of some discovery which may perhaps save the life
of someone else’s wife in some remote future. That is too cold
and distant to rob an act of its immediate horror.”

>l< * *

The Yellow Fever Radio Play

An article entitled “ The Fight Against Yellow
Fever,” by Dr. C. M. Wenyon, F.R.S., was published
in the Radio Times of January 12th, previous to the
broadcast of a dramatised version of what has been
done by medical scientists in regard to this disease.

As in the case of other infectious diseases primarily
caused by insanitation the scientists declare that it is
due to a “virus”, and it is considered proved by
experiments on human beings that the disease is con—
veyed from man to man by a certain species of mosquito.

Although this theory does not account for yellow
fever in the jungles of the South American forests,
vaccines based on it have been produced, the ﬁrst
“ success ” being recorded in 1928, “ and progress in
preparing a satisfactory vaccine has gone on steadily
ever since.”

One of the most characteristic symptoms of the
disease is jaundice, which accounts for the name of
yellow fever, or “ Yellow jack ” as it is often called.

In this connection it is interesting to recall that in
an article on “ Jaundice~ following Yellow—Fever
Immunisation”, published in The Lancet of 'May' 29,

.1943, reference was made to the fact that among

American army personnel inoculated with yellow-fever
vaccine no fewer than 28,585 persons developed jaundice
and 62 of them died. , '. j ..

It is evidently easier to produce the chief symptom
of yellow fever with a vaccine than to confer immunity,
and it looks as if the “ progress in preparing a satis-
factory vaccine” during the period of 15 years was not
very great.

* >l< *

Infantile Paralysis _ .

We have been pleased to receive a leaﬂet, published
by The Maryland Anti-Vivisection Society, on Polio~
myelitis or Infantile Paralysis. We offer our con—
gratulations to this Society in the USA. for the Very
impressive leaﬂet which they have produced to show
the contrast between the success of the treatment
practised by Nurse Kenny and the utter failure of the
cruel methods of the vivisectors.

We give the following excerpts from the leaﬂet 2-—

“ For the last six years thousands upon thousands of Rhesus
monkeys have been imported from India and distributed to
most of the biological laboratories throughout the United
States for experimental purposes in the vain hope that a ‘ virus ’
might be found which would enable the serum manufacturers
to produce a vaccine which when injected into human bodies
would prevent the disease of poliomyelitis. The result of those
foolish experiments needs no comment.‘ Sufﬁcient. it is to
say that this mythical virus has never been found while hundreds
of thousands of monkeys to Whom the disease of poliomyelitis
was utterly foreign died amid the torments of the damned in
the laboratories of the vivisectors after the most cruel modes
of experimentation. And now, the latest collections of several
millions of dollars from the March of Dimes is being awarded
to all sorts of experimental stations in order that the insane
experimentation may go on. . . .

“ The disease is considered one of the most mysterious of
all maladies. What causes the ailment, how to prevent it,
or how to affect a cure are all unanswered queries for the solving

 

 




 

 

March—April, I945 THE ABOLITIONIST , ’ l3

 

of which many theories have been put forth, but little of prac-
tical value in the treatment of poliomyelitis has been developed
with the exception of the Kenny technique. The application

of hot packs, together with the 're-education of the affected ‘

muscles as advocated by the practical nurse from Australia,
Elizabeth Kenny, constitutes the only practical healing treat-
ment so far developed. _

“ Severe epidemics of the disease followed the ﬁrst World
War and poliomyelitis claimed the notice of the public when
President Roosevelt having been diagnosed as a sufferer from
_. the- malady inaugurated the President’s Birthday Ball and

the March of Dimes as the means of raising money for the
amelioration of suffering upon the part of those who contracted
the disease. To control the fund thus collected which totals
millions of dollars the Foundation for Infantile Paralysis was
‘ established in New York City. _

“ The sum total of all efforts on the part of the Foundation
in either'curing or preventing the disease is rapidly approaching
zero. With the exception of millions of animals which have

' been tortured to death for no purpose the records of the Founda-
' tion have littleto tell. , Time and again its Director, Mr. Basil
O’Connor, has been.requested to use a part of the money
cqllected each year for the support of Nurse Kenny’s work,
but to date no funds for the purpose have been made available.

, “ In the mantime the disease is on the increase and many
observers fear a spreading of the number of cases to epidemic

proportions due to the terriﬁc programmes of vaccination and _

inoculations. inaugurated by the [armed services during the
present World War. The army and navy are picked men
selected for their physique, perfect health and physical strength
and it is nothing short of fantastic to suppose that the ﬁlling
of the blood streams and lymph channels of these healthy
bodies with all sorts of serums, antitoxins and vaccines full
of ﬁlth and vile matter from diseasedanimals will tend to make
these bodies healthier and stronger. Like every other disease
of mankind pol’iomyelitis will be found to spring from some
defect in moral, mental or physical hygiene and the further
polution. by ’vaccine of a body already poluted by disease must
lessen the chances for the body’s ultimate recovery.”

>l< * >i<

Insanitation‘ and Disease

' Mr. Arthur Trobridge has sent us a copy of one of

his letters, which .gives the following inform‘ation:—-—~

DIPHTHERIA AT GATESHEAD

Dr. James Grant, the M.O.H. for Gateshead, in his
Annual Report for 1943, notes the severe type of
diphtheria‘in Gateshead, and adds :—~ ‘

“the predominance of Diphtheria Gravis also accounts for the
somewhat disappointing effect of diphtheria immunisation upon the
incidence of the disease.” -

The discussion in the Press, which resulted from
.the Vicar of St. Paul’s letter-on the neglect of sanitation
in Gateshead, .probably indicates the cause of this
severe type prevailing there.

Dr. Farr, the author of the ﬁrst 40 Reports of our
' Registrar-General, made the following comments on this

point :———— '

“ Efforts should be made to reduce all the contagious diseases to a
minimum by placing the whole population in as favourable a
sanitary condition as possible, so that these diseases may be taken,
as they are then, in the mildest form.” ‘

These remarks apply to all the zymotic diseases——
fevers, smallpox, diphtheria, etc. Remove the cause»——-
the insanitary condition of our t0wns——~and all such
diseases will be reduced to aminimum, and that without
any resort to ” immunisation or any so-called speciﬁc
against any of them.

>i< * 7*
Whooping-Cough Inoculation

In reply to the question “ What is the duration of
the immunity that may reasonably be expected from

 

prophylactic inoculation against whooping—clough P ”
the British Medical Journal (7/ 10/44) made the follOwing
admission: “Probably nobody has sufﬁcient data to
say much with conﬁdence about the duration of pro—
tection from inoculation against whooping-cough.”

The impossibility of being able to state “ the duration
of the immunity that may reasonably be expected”
does not prevent the manufacturer from advertising the
vaccine, nor does it deter the medical profession from
administering it.

=l< >i< bk

Theosophy and Inoculations

We have read with interest an article entitled “ Inocu—
lations and‘Theosophists ” in the Theosophical M ove-
ment, published in Bombay on the 17th December, 1944.

Apart from the expression of opinion that “ there are
cases Where life can be prolonged by inoculation ”~——~the '
truth of which we take leave to doubtwthe article is
entirely against the practice of inoculation, and we
have pleasure in reprinting the following extract :—.—~

“ What has Theosophy to say about inoculations? Serum
therapy is the popular medical fetish and superstition of the
moment, as blood-letting was the panacea a hundred years or
so ago and as something else will doutless be a century from
now.~
“ Theosophy unequivocally condemns inoculation, 'which
Chambers’s Twentieth Century Dictionary deﬁnes as ‘ the com-
munication of disease to a healthy subject by the introduction
of a speciﬁc germ or animal poison into his system by puncture
or otherwise. Only less objectionable is the injection into the
blood of man of matter derived from healthy animals.

Vaccination against smallpox has ﬂourished for decades to
the great enrichment of the serum manufacturers and the
increased proﬁts of the orthodox,’medical practitioners. So
strong has been the propaganda that in many cases there has
seemed to be a conspiracy of silence against the ineffectual
character of the immunisation which vabcination claims to
confer and the proven dire results in not a few cases. The
press has been on the side of the powerful interests. Its columns
are generally closed to the ‘hysterical faddists’ as the serum
interests call those who oppose, in the name of humanity and
common-sense, the poisoning of healthy bodies as a precaution
against disease. . . .

“ So much for the physical, material side: inoculation is in
very many cases ineffective ; it is dirty ; it is dangerous. More-
over, it is cruel. The production of vaccines and Serums inﬂicts
suffering upon the animal kingdom, which exists to serve another
purpose than to pander to man’s whims. It is a form of vivi-
section, and vivisection, H. P. B. declared, was ‘Sorcery pure
and simple.’ ”

 

 

NOW TELL EVERY BODY ‘
HOW VERY NECESSARY
iNOCULATIONS ARE!

   
 
 
 
 
  

 

“OW"

6: l
“fiofte’l l

 

 

1

BAwa . ’1}. \\II\ ,
mm Apmoaies mazes. . p ., . n“; *7

   

 

Getting fat at the expense of suffering animals!

 




 

 

l4 ' THE ABOLITIONIS T

 

 

 

 

. '—'

March—Apr”, I945

v—

“THE QUESTION or V.D.”

let entitled The Question of V.D., by James C.

Thomson, Principal of the Edinburgh School of
Natural Therapeutics. The pamphlet is obtainable from
the Publications Department, Kingston Clinic, Edin-
burgh 9, price 9d. It is a very strong indictment of the
methods employed in dealing with venereal disease—
methods which include compulsory treatment based on
the erroneous germ theory.

WE have received for review a copy of a pamph-

‘ An extract is given from the News Chronicle of

November 25, 1943, showing that it was reported in
this newspaper that two young women munition
workers, of Peterborough——one aged 21, single, and
the other a married woman whose soldier husband
was in North Africa—had not complied with a notice
to attend a clinic for examination. Their names and
addresses were published in the paper. Mr. Charles
Greenwood, representing the Public Health Committee,
said that the regulation provided for compulsory
examination and treatment . . . under a penalty of
£ 100 or three months’ imprisonment, or both.

While we recognise the need for doing everything
possible to stamp out disease of this nature, such
arbitrary proceedings and heavy penalties clearly
cannot be justiﬁed unless the diagnosis of the disease
is beyond question and the treatment is known to be
both harmless and efﬁcacious. The booklet we are
reviewing shows by quotations from medical authorities
that such is not the case.

The author begins by pointing out that there is no
proof that the spirochaete—Q-the germ associated with
the disease—is the cause of syphilis. He goes on to
show that if the unwholesome habits and unclean
tissues are got rid of, the germ can beignored; and
thattreatment aimed at killing the germs is not only
dangerous but is productive of most of the harmful
effects following the contraction of venereal disease.
Furthermore, he quotes statements from doctors which
reveal that the test relied upon for diagnosisuthe
Wassermann test—is unreliable and misleading.

Quotations from' medical sources show that the
drugs used in the treatment of venereal disease may
cause mental disorders and insanity. That is alarming
enough, but it is simply amazing to learn that patients
in that condition have been given “ electro—convulsive
therapy” resulting in ‘,‘ fractured limbs and spines.”
Doctors have issued» warnings that this form of treat—
ment is “ potentially dangerous and physiologically
unsound”, but whether their protests will bring about
a complete discontinuance of it is doubtful.

The experience of Dr. Hermann, of Vienna, is quoted.
Sixty years ago, Dr. Hermann announced that during
the previous thirty years he had been responsible for
the hospital treatment of 60,000 patients, and among
the thousands of syphilitics who were treated without
mercury not a single one developed symptoms of con-
stitutional syphilis. In the cases of so-called con-
stitutional syphilis that came to the Hospital Weiden
'in Vienna, Dr. Hermann found that all had histories
of the mercurial treatment, and he pointed out that

 

 

workers in the mercury mines of Idria, who never
suffered from syphilis, exhibited the same symptoms as
patients with so—called secondary and tertiary syphilis.
He therefore concluded that symptoms commonly
diagnosed as constitUtional syphilis were really due to
the effects of mercury in the human body.

Although present-day treatment is With arsenical
compounds, these cannot be regarded as much less
dangerous; and, instead of being a complete cure,
they are so ineffective that they have generally to be
supplemented with the mercurial or some other treat—
ment. Furthermore, a memorandum from the Ministry
of Health shows that patients are subjected to tests and
kept under observation for at least two years after
the treatment has ended.

Mr. Thomson concludes with the following state—
ment :———,

“ From our angle syphilis and gonorrhoea, uncomplicated by
medication, are but simple cleansing efforts on the part of a
somewhat unhealthy body. Left to themselves, they clear up
the toxic overload in from two to three months after basic
causes have been removed. My personal belief is that the
drug ‘ cures ’ are not only worse than the disease, they are the
essentially destructive part—the true reason for the unspeakable
aftermath so disarmingly announced to the public as ‘ secondary
and tertiary syphilis ’.”

Anti—vivisectionists will be grateful to Mr. Thomson
for having drawn up such a convincing case against
treatments based on the misleading germ theory and
experiments on animals. As it is now illegal to give
treatment for venereal disease except by these methods
which have been so strongly criticised, some of our
readers may care to obtain and send a copy of the
pamphlet, with a covering letter, to their Member of
Parliament.

 

 

The public would be saved from a sea of troubles
by following the lead of the British Union for the
Abolition of Vivisection.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

March—April, 1945

 

THE ABOLITIONIST » . :5

IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS

EXTRACTS FROM THE PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES

31515 October, 1944
Tetanus Anti-Toxin

Mr. A. EDWARDS asked the Minister of Health to what extent
hospital staffs are obliged to inject anti-tetanus serum in all
cases of accident, except where the patients refuse to permit
this; whether he is aware that the serum occasionally has
disastrous effects as ’at the Norfolk and Norwich hospital
recently, where a patient died from anaphylactic shock caused
by an administration of the serum ; and whether he will intimate
to those hospitals with which his Ministry has any connection
'that it is inadvisable to make the administration of anti-tetanus
serum a routine matter. ,

Mr. WILLINK: So far as air raid casualties and‘other cases
falling within the Emergency Hospital Scheme are concerned,
hospitals are instructed that tetanus anti-toxin in the doses
prescribed in the instructions must be injected in all cases
of injury. I am advised, on information supplied by the
Medical Research Council, that the «‘“danger of anaphylaxis
is very small, and I am not prepared to advise hospitals in the
sense suggested in the last part of the Question. It may be
added that the only cases of tetanus amongst air raid casualties
reported to my medical ofﬁcers have occurred where no anti-
toxin has been given or where the instructions have not been
fully observed.

6th December, 1944.
Immunised Children

Mr. VIANT asked the Secretary of State for Scotland what is
the percentage deducted from the returns of. immunised children
sent in by medical ofﬁcers .of health to allow for those children
who pass the age limit of 15 years. .

Mr. JOHNSTON: The ﬁgures supplied by Medical Ofﬁcers of
Health are cumulative and the deduction to allow for children
passing the aged of 15 therefore gradually increases. It would
"not be possible without considerable labour to give precise
ﬁgures of the number of children involved, but the appropriate
deductions for the years 1941, 1942 and 1943‘were estimated
to be 4 per cent., 9 per cent. and 15 per cent. respectively.

8th December, 1944
Diphtheria

Mr. LEACH asked the Minister of Health how many of the
4,820,114 children who were under 15 years of age at thetime of
immunisation had passed the age of 15 years by 3lst May,
1944, and, if his Department has no record of this ﬁgure, what
percentage of these children was deducted to allow for the
number who had passed the age of 15 years when an estimate
of 56 per cent. of the population under 15 years of age as having
been immunised at the end of 1943 was made.

Mr. WILLINK: The ﬁgure requested by my hon. Friend is
not available. But of the children immunised since 1940, when

the campaign. began, the proportion who have up to now passed,

the age of 15 is naturally small. In View of this, and also of the
fact that the number of these children is estimated to be more
than offset by,the number immunised before 1940 and still under
15, no such deduction as my hon. Friend mentions is called
for.

19th December, 1944 .
Bovine Tuberculosis (Vaccine Infection)

MR. LEACH asked the Minister of Health whether his Depart- ,

ment has considered the possibility of bovine tuberculosis being
caused by vaccination and that a considerable numberof cases
of bovine tuberculosis are notiﬁed in areas where all or nearly all
the milk consumed is pasteuriSed milk ; and what action he
proposes to take to prevent the spread of this form of tuberculosis.

MR. WILLINK : I am advised that medical research has produced
no evidence to suggest that smallpox vaccination either causes

 

or aggravates tuberculous infection. The source of bovine
infection cannot be limited to the particular area where the
disease comes to notice and its occurrence is not necessarily
related to the milk supply in that area. The measures that are
being taken to increase pasteurisation or other efﬁcient heat-
treatment of milk throughout the country are the most effective
means of combating bovine tuberculosis.

Anti-Tetanus Serum

MR. LEACH asked the Minister of Health whether he is aware
that some medical ofﬁcials of hospitals who have received his
Department’s instructions to inoculate accident cases with anti-
tetanus serum are unaware of the right of the patient to refuse
this treatment; and Whether, in view of the deﬁnite nature of
those instructions, he will remind hospital authorities that the
patient’s right to object still stands. ‘

MR. WILLINK : No, Sir. If my Hon. Friend has in mind any
particular case I shall be glad to consider it.

21525 December, 1944 - '
Dipthheria

' MR. VIANT asked the Minister of Health how many cases of
diphtheria in immunised children under 15 years of age were
notiﬁed during the ﬁrst six months of this year ; and how many
fatal cases were recorded in immunised children.

MRI WILLINK: According to returns received from all but ‘a
few local authorities in England and Wales, 2,243 cases of diph—
theria among immunised children were notiﬁed during the ﬁrst
half of this year, as against 6,743 among non-immunised children.
The number of deaths among immunised children was 16, com—
pared with 368 among children not so protected.

16th jam/wary, 1945
’ Vaccination

MR. LEACH asked the Minister of Health'whether his attention
has been called to two recent deaths from vaccination of babies
in which cerebral haemorrhage was the feature and in both of
which the expert witness deniedthat vaccination had played any
part in causing. death, although» in both instances the child was
perfectly healthy when vaccinated and“ the illness developed
shortly afterwards ; and whether, in View of the numerous cases
that have been investigated by his Department in which vaccine
virus has affected the brain, he will issue an ofﬁci a1 statement
calling the attention of pathologists to the effect that vaccme
virus has on the brain in certain instances. ‘

MR. WILLINK : I am unable to identify the two cases to which

:my hon. Friend refers, but if he will let me have further parti—

culars, I will look into them and communicate with him.

6th February, 1945
' Smallpox

MR. LEACH asked the Secretary of State for Scotland whether
his Department made any inquiry into the deaths from vaccma—
tion or associated with vaccination performed during the smallpox
outbreak in 1942; how many of such deaths were eventually
discovered ; the areas in which they occurred ; and where the 10
deaths from vaccination or post—vaccinal encephalitis mentioned

‘ in the Report on the Edinburgh smallpox outbreak occurred.

MR. JOHNSTON: Medical ofﬁcers of my Department were in
close and constant touch with medical ofﬁcers of health during
the period of this outbreak and paid special attention to deaths
associated with vaccination. A total of 21 such deaths during
the period were reported. Of these 10 occurred in Edinburgh,
5 in Fife, 4 in Glasgow, 1 in Lanarkshire and -1 1n Midlothian.
The 10 deaths mentioned in the recently published report by the
Edinburgh Public Health Department all occurred in Edinburgh.

 




 

THE ABOLI TI ONIS T

March—Apr”, r945

 

B.U.A.V. ‘ CHRONICLE

®bituarp

We deeply regret to record the death, on January 13th, of
Fairlie, Viscountess Harberton. It will be remembered that

her husband, the seventh Viscount Harberton, who was Hon. ,

Treasurer of the B.U.A.V., died as recently as April of last year.

Lady Harberton, who was well known under her maiden name,
Fairlie Harmer, as an artist, took a keen and practical interest
inpboth the Anti-Vivisection and Anti-Vaccination Movements.
In particular, she had striven to gain more publicity for the fact
that vaccination and inoculation were not compulsory for

,members of the ﬁghting forces.

It will be gratefully recalled that besides being a generous
annual subscriber Lady Harberton had attended meetings of the
B.U.A.V., and that she opened the Bazaar held in the Hadwen
Memorial on December 2nd, 1939. .

News of the death, on December Blst, 1944, of Miss E. Ogleby—
Davies has been received with very great regret. Miss Ogleby-
Davies had been a Life Member Of the B.U.A.V. since 1914
and 'had always taken a keen interest in the progress of the
Cause.

The Blackheath Branch regretfully records the death, on
January 7th, of Miss R. Crofton, a Life Member of the B.U.A.V.,
and sister of Miss M. Crofton, the late Hon. Secretary of the
Branch.

The Colwyn Bay, Colwyn and Llandudno Branch reports
with much regret the death, on December 8th last, of Mrs.
Anne Hyde, O.B.E., J.P., who had been President of the
Branch since 1930.

The Harrogate Branch regrets to announce the death of its
Honorary Treasurer, Mr. C. A. Barber, who had held the post
for many years, desPite pressure of business. Mr. Barber,
who was a solicitor, took a keen interest in the Cause and in the
work of the B.U.A.V., and had attended meetings of the Associa—
tion in London. His services will always be gratefully remem—
bered by the Branch.

The. Newcastle Branch records with deep regret the death, on
November 2nd, 1944, of Miss M. Ritchie, who for more than
twenty years had helped her sister, Miss S. Ritchie, in the work
of Branch Representative, by collecting subscriptions and
delivering copies of The Abolitionist in the coastal area. Much
sympathy is felt for Miss Ritchie in her great loss.

The Branch very much regrets to announce the death, at
Castle Douglas, on January 23rd, of Mrs. Frances Wiseman Hué.
A staunch supporter of the Anti-Vivisection Cause, Mrs. Hué
had served on the local Committee and was a Vice-President of
the Branch. Having been trained as a nurse Mrs. Hué was able
to consider the medical aspect of the subject, and a revealing
account of a visit which she paid to. the Pasteur Institute in
Paris was published in The Abolitionist of February, 1934.

HEADQUARTERS

The leading article on “ Animal Welfare ” in The Abolitiorzist
of July—August, 1944, was reprinted in The A-V. of October,
1944, published by the American Anti-Vivisection Society.

A full page advertisement of the B.U.A.V. appeared in
Pamphlet No. 27, dated November, 1944, of The Grey Owl
Somety, and resulted in some inquiries for particulars of
experiments.

DARLINGTON

Letters from Mr. Arthur Trobridge were published in the
Northern Echo of Nov. 27th, Dec. lst and 5th. Mr. Trobridge’s
ﬁrst letter, quoting Dr. Elliott C. Cutler’s remarks about peni-
cillinv,.led to the publication of further letters, in which 'Mr.
Trobridge was unsuccessfully opposed by three other corres—
pondents. '

LEICESTER

At the invitation of the Leicester Parliamentary Debating
Society, Mr. B. Elsmere addressed the members on Anti-Vivi-
section, on January 5th. A discussion lasting over an hour
, followed the opener’s remarks. A vote was taken and was in
favour of the Anti-Vivisection Movement by 21 votes to 5.
Several members did not vote.

 

Mr. Elsmere addressed the Ilkeston Rotary Club on January
15th. Members took part in the subsequent discussion.

LYMINGTON

’ The Annual Meeting of the Branch was held at Silver Birches,
by kind permission of Mrs. Dawson, on February 14th. Mrs.
Howard was in the chair, and the usual proceedings were con—
ducted. Mrs. Dawson was elected President.

MANCHESTER .
A Shop Campaign, conducted by Mr. F. R. Nolan, was held

.at St. Peter’s Gate, Stockport, from Nov. 20th to Dec. 23rd.

Results : New Subscribers, 152 ; Signatures to Petition, 868.

NEW CASTLE-ON -TYNE

On November 17th last, Miss H. Blackhall, Hon Secretary
of the Branch, gave a short talk on Animal Welfare to a Girls'
Club in Gateshead. Mrs. J. A. Turnbull followed this up, on
December 8th, with a talk on Vivisection.

An “ Animals Fair,” organised by Miss Blackhall, was held on
December 2nd at the Theosophical Hall, Newcastle, and was a
great. success. The Branch is greatly indebted to all who
assisted in this effort, which was the means of raising over
£40 for the funds.

At the end of the year the membership of the Branch showed
an increase of 71.

SOUTHPO RT

At a meeting of the Southport Debating Society, held on
December 8th, Mr. T. A. Rostron, Hon. Secretary of the local
Branch of the B.U.A.V., put forward the motion ” That Vivi—
section be Abolished.”

This was opposed by Dr. R. R. M. Porter, a well-known local
practitioner, and short speeches were made by members of t e
audience. .

Finally, the motion was put to the vote and lost, 21 voting
for and 45 against.

TUNB RI DGE WELLS

A, meeting, arranged by the local Branch, was held on
January 27th, at the Spa Hotel, to hear Miss Nancy Price give
a talk on “ Animals in the Post-War W'orld.” Lieut.-Colonel
Kitchin, D.S.O., presided and the meeting opened with Blake’s
” Jerusalem ”, sung by members of the Junior Section of the

.Branch, with Miss Bristowe at the piano.

In spite of cruel weatherwsnow, frost,-and fog—~153 animal
lovers braved the dangerous condition of the roads to attend the
meeting. The great actress pleaded most eloquently for a more
humane and grateful treatment of the wonderful animal kingdom
to which mankindowes so much. Especially she demanded a
more courageous attack on the practice of Vivisection, which she
described as the “ lowest abyss of cruelty to which humanity
has descended,” and she deplored the fact that the Church was
so callous about it.

Miss Nancy Price followed her talk by a Dramatic Recital,
which obviously enchanted her audience. It was given in the
interests of the People’s National Theatre, of which Miss Price is
the Director.

The Branch gained ten new members and 42 names were added
to the Petition to the local Member of Parliament.

Reports of the meeting were published in the Turtbridge Wells
Advertiser and the Kent and Sussex Courier.

The Junior Section Study Group, under Miss Barnett’s
leadership, has met regularly once a fortnight at the Theosophical
Hall, 7, Church Road, during November, December and January,
and at their seventh meeting, on February 15th, Miss Barnett
presented each member who had attended every meeting with a
copy of the B.U.A.V. Calendar for 1945.

WORTHING

The Short Service on behalf of Animals was held, as usual,
on the second Friday of the month, January 12th, at 13, Railway
Approach, at 3 p.m., conducted by Mr. Richard Whitwell. ‘

On February 9th it was conducted by Miss Marsh, Hon.
Assistant Secretary of the Branch.

 

Printed by The Hereford Times Ltd., General Printing Works (T.U.), London and Hereford. March, 1945.

 




