Reprinted from The Herald of the Golden A ge." 25th Thousand.

But Who Slew all These?

 

VERY day, week in, week out, nearly three'thousand cattle,
twenty thousand sheep, and ﬁve thousand pigs are slaughtered
in England alone ! _

Every time the clock ticks, twenty animals in pain and anguish
breathe out their gasping breath and die by a violent death.

This calculation takes no thought of the thousands that fall
from the sky with broken wings and shattered limbs, or that scream
upon the wild moors their last scream of fear ere the pall of Death
closes upon their throat for ever.

It takes no thought of the happy rabbits playing in the' evening
gleaming till the click of the jagged steel, is heard and then the long
hours of pain while the ﬂesh is torn through, shred by shred, until only
the broken bone and the tough sinews hold back the panting fevered
creature from the liberty it has lost.

Death comes at last, even to the meanest creature in the most
_:,;,cruel of traps.

AA It takes no thought of the maimed and wounded that lie in their
holes and die, or that fall upon the lonely rocks and ﬂap out their
lives, or beakless, slowly starving, pine away.

It leaves out of count the ﬁshes of the sea and river and the wild
beasts shot in their native forests.

It takes no count of all these, and yet its toll of deaths recorded,
of deaths that are violent, .of deaths that are painful, is terrible in its
overwhelming weight of numbers.

I do not minimise the dread pangs of those poor creatures who
suﬂer beneath the vivisectors’ scalpel. I do not forget that while
the beneﬁcent pall of a painless sleep falls upon the greater number,
there are yet many who endure their torture unsoothed and unpitied.

I do not forget that while the pin-prick is a real description of
many of the experiments that take place, yet the after effect upon
many an animal is one of lingering suffering, painful, helpless, hopeless--
a pain that prays for death and ends in death at last. ‘

I forget none of these things, and yet I see the vivisector standing
in life’s market place and saying, I“ It is. true that those mangled
bodies and those festering limbs are the result of my handiwork, but
who slew all these .9 WHO SLEVV ALL THESE? ”

 

 




 

And, as he asks, there comes 'a mingled wail of sadness from east
and west, from north and south, from busy town and sleepy village,
the cries of pain-racked creatures whose voices go up to the sky.

“ You sit in your seats of soft ease, your raiment of costly furs
mantles you round, you gather from every land for the luxury of your
feast, and then you chastise me with the scorpion whip of your tongue
for my deeds of cruelty and pain,” says the vivisector.

“ I admit your accusation, my work is as bad as you say it is,
my pursuits degrade and demoralise' those who practise them, but
though I bring pain, lingering pain and death, mangled death, to my
thousands, who is it that brings death, painful brutal death, to these
tens of thousands?

Who $1825 all these? .

And the sorrowing answer comes back, from slaughter house and
abattoir, from cattle ship and railway truck, from over-driven herds
and footsore ﬂocks, from maimed and torn, from the prison chamber
of the living and from the mad struggles of the dying, the answer
comes back the same. _ .

“ It is not Science that has slain us, it is not Necessity that has
brought this calamity upon us, it is not Famine, nor the exigencies
of War that have ﬁlled our cup of sorrOw to over-ﬂowing; it is not
by the command of God, nor by the duress of man that the butcher
plies his deadly knife and the living throats are gashed with the cruel
steel-it is to satisfy mere Pleasure, selﬁsh Pleasure, Stomach Pleasure
that these woes hang heavy upon us.

“ We agonize and die, simply because some woman likes the
taste of our cooked body, or some man is accustomed to the ﬂavour
of our devilled organs.

" We agonize and die simply because our bodies have a certain
smell and a certain taste which people have become accustomed to
and like, and would miss, if it‘were taken from them.”

3t is a smell auto a taste. it is selﬁsh pleasure, it is
thoughtless habit which slaps all these.

But the time is coming and is close at hand when the sermon of
the preacher shall be stopped, when the voice of the talker shall be
stilled, when they who now rail at the cruelties of others shall then
the rather set an example of self abstinence from their own cruelties.

The time shall come when experiments on animals in the name
of science shall be as impossible as experiments on human criminals
are now, and this, not by the power of a law easy to be evaded and
impossible to enforce by means of inspectors themselves opposed to it,
but by a force of public opinion engendered by those to whom all
gentle life is beautiful and to whom all pain is abhorrent.




The time is at hand when it can no more be said that you may
not torture for the demands of Science, but that I may torture for the
pleasure of my palate.

We need whole men and whole women who can show by a little
personal self-sacriﬁce the reality of their convictions, and against
whom no enemy can cast back the damning question ”in their teeth,
“ I have tortured and slain my hundreds, but as to these thousands
and tens of thousands—«who slew all these 1’ Let these be our answer.
Remove your own mote, even though it be but a mote, that you may
discern clearly, ere you set up as oculists to the eyes of humanity.”

The answer sometimes reaches me “ God has given man the right
to take away the life of an animal.”

That may be. I do not for the moment dispute it. But this
does not include the right to torture animals, and I say in all solemnity
that from my personal presence in the slaughter-houses of the land
I know only too well that, if I understand aright the meaning of the
words torture and agony, the gentle and intelligent animals who are
done to death to tickle the appetite of the connoisseurs suffer both.

I do not say they all do, I do not say that every animal that is
vivisected suﬁers pain, but I do say that there is no control, no security
that can make these things impossible, and that so long as torture
and agony exist in this unnecessary and degrading trade so long it
becomes a sin for every awakened humane soul to participate in it
and to publicly bless it.

Cruelty is a crime whether done in the name of a humane science
for the relief of suffering humanity, or done in the name of a selﬁsh
appetite for the comforting of a depraved stomach.

I well remember an event which rises to my mind whenever the
terrible tale of animal suffering is told. -

My mother had a young bullock on our farm and she used to feed
it. It knew her voice and looked for her coming and gently mooed
when it heard her step.

Its time of departure came, and full of fat it was driven oﬁ to the
town on a market day.

My mother was in the town on that afternoon and as she stood
looking in at a shop window there came by a drove of cattle driven
by rough men and barking dogs.

She turned round, and suddenly from out of the drove there was
one which thrust its way to her. ' I

It was her own bullock, with tired aching feet, with sore and
beaten sides, with wild and frightened eyes—this poor creature, who,
up to that morning had known nothing but kindness and gentleness,
recognised its mistress, its friend.

It was pitiful to see it.

 




 

“ At last,” it seemed to say, “ I have found my friend once more,
and I will not leave her ; oh, do not give me back into the hands of
these dreadful men again.” '

And it stood before her'moaning plaintively, and she put out her
hand and stroked its poor feverish parched nose.

And the men came up and tried to drive it away, but it Would
not move ; and the dogs yapped up round it and bit at its heels, and it
would not move ; and then with sticks the drovers Came and ﬂogged
it on—and so it went, dumbly moaning, to its hard doom.

And my mother said that when the money was later paid for the
bullock, it seemed like receiving the “ price of blood.”

The pathos of the world of butchery is inﬁnitely pathetic to those
who are willing to descend into the Valley of the shadow Of suffering
and pain and death.

And all this suffering is for human luxuryand for human pleasure !

JOSIAH OLDFIELD, M.A., D.C.L., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S.

This leaflet can be obtained from the Order of the Golden Age. 153. 155, Brompton Road. London, S.VV. 3,
or from The Council for the Protection of Animals, 2, Victoria Street. Manchester.

Price 25. 6d. per hundred. post free. A list of other publications will be sent on application.

 

“ A COMPREHENSIVE GUIDE‘BOOK TO NATURAL, HYGIENIC AND HUMANE DIET.”
By SIDNEY H. BEARD. . ,

Eighth Edition. :wiforty‘ﬁfth Thousand.

Illustrated. In Art Linen Boards. Price 3/6 net (3/9 post free).

A Book for those who desire to live a Hundred years, which shows how to avoid Mistakes
in Diet and the suffering which results from them.

It contains 260 Original Recipes for Fruitarian Cookery. '

“ THE BLOOD-GUILTINESS OF CHRISTENDOM.”
By SIR WILLIAM EARNSHAW COOPER, C.I.E.
A Book which reveals the penalties that follow physical transgression.

A startling indictment of the needless, systematic, and wholesale massacre taking
place daily in Christian Countries ; and a clear presentation of facts concerning the physical
and moral results accruing therefrom. .

, Price Two Shillings net (postage 3d.)
“ THE CANCER SCOURGE AND HOW TO DESTROY IT.”
By ROBERT BELL, M.D., F.R.F.P.S., etc.
Fifth Thousand. Price Two Shillings net (2/3 post free).

A clear pronouncement. by a Cancer Specialist on this important subjectwwho speaks
from the standpoint of 40 years’ experience.

It contains 20 art plates illustrating diagnoses from the blood when highly magniﬁed,
and proves, by these object lessons, the preventability of Cancer.

“ OUR REAL RELATIONSHIP TO GOD—The Lost Ideal of Christianity."
A Book for those who desire to attain the Spiritual and Transcendent Life.

The general scheme of thought and life taught by The Order of the Golden Age is
expounded in its pages. Its Perusal will compel you to think, and it may transform your
career. .

Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence net (postage 4d.)
“THE TESTIMONY OF SCIENCE IN FAVOUR OF NATURAL AND HUMANE DIET.”
By SIDNEY H. BEARD.
Eighth Edition. I 35th Thousand. Price 4d. net (5d. post free).

 

Published by
THE ORDER OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
153 and 155, Brompton Road, London, S.W.3.

 




