Junior Series, No. I.
Fifty-third Thousand.

WHAT DO YOUNG PEOPLE
THINK ABOUT

HUNTING ANIMALS?

Y young people I mean all boys and girls from 10 to 16 years of

age who are now at school and who are encouraged to form their

own opinions on all sorts of questions which affect their lives. Some-

times they hold debates on important subjects and so learn both sides
of the argument, which encourages fair—mindedness.

N ow supposing you who read this were asked to discuss whether
in these days people should continue to indulge in what used to be
called ‘the pleasures of the chase,’ or whether hunting foxes with
hounds, coursing hares and rabbits, ‘worrying’ the otter and chasing
wild and tame deer should be done away with altogether and looked
upon as out-of—date and cruel sports, I wonder on which side the
majority would vote, and I should very much like to know.

I am all for trying to be fair to everyone, including the animals;
and though I hate the idea of any having to be killed, While knowing
that it is sometimes necessary, I am obliged to see that there is all the
difference between having to kill and taking pleasure in killing, as
in modern sport. I cannot, therefore, promise to put before you
here the pros and cons of killing animals as a pastime, but only some of
the arguments against the practice.

None of you, I imagine, who may perhaps love to go to the meet
and follow the hunt, would ever think it good sport to set your dog to
worry to death my puss sitting on her own doorstep. No; because
she is a cat and lives in a house; and if you did her any harm you
would certainly get into trouble, for the law says cruelty to cats is
a punishable offence. But can you tell me why it is called manly
and sporting to run a hare to death out in the ﬁelds and cowardly and
wrong to harm a cat sitting at home? Both certainly have the same
power of feeling pain and happiness.

We cannot get away from this question except by admitting that

 




wild and tame or ‘domesticated’ creatures have an equal right to
man’s compassion and sympathy. I believe it is only because sporting
people whose grandfathers and great-grandfathers were fond of hunt—
ing never seriously consider the feelings of the animals who ﬂee from
them, but only the pleasure they themselves expect to get out of the
day’s run, that this unfair treatment of wild animals has continued
for so long. Yet these same people are so often found to be kind-
hearted and generous in other ways! Is it not strange? They argue
that the folk who would like to stop hunting are ‘kill-joys’ and senti-
mentalists, as though if all hunting ceased there would be no sport left
for them! What about golf, football, cricket, tennis and so forth,
besides, for riders, the splendid exercise provided by the Drag-hunt—-—
where the hounds follow an artiﬁcially scented trail instead of a living
creature? .

Some children’s parents still buy and keep wild birds in little cages
because they have never thought of a bird’s need to use its wings; and
many of these parents are nowadays being asked by their boys and
girls—who are thinking about the wings—to set their prisoners free.

Why should not the other wild creatures of our countryside be
left free, so far as they are not harmful (in which case they could be
destroyed as mercifully as possible), to delight nature-lovers by their
interest and beauty? The suffering involved in any necessary shooting
or other means of destroying injurious wild animals would at least
not be deliberately inﬂicted for the sake of pleasure!

Nowadays there are plenty of young people who will never belong
to that kind of sporting world which kills for fun; they are thinking
things out for themselves. The National Society for the Abolition of
Cruel Sports would like to help you to understand clearly why it wants
to have cruelty of this kind made illegal and to show you also what an
important thing public opinion is. Public opinion is now rapidly
deciding that deer hunting is acruel and cowardly sport, so that we
feel sure our hopes will be realised before long by the passing of a Bill
in Parliament to forbid it. After that, public opinion must ask for the
prohibition of the other cruel sports.

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports has
published leaflets about Fox, Otter, and Deer-hunting, and Hare and
Rabbit Coursing. Will you help us by reading these and distributing
them among your friends, and by writing to the Secretary at 4
Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I telling us what you think about
it all? J. \V.

Otim “szz'm Series” Leaflets:

(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.

(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing of ﬂares and Rabbits.
(5) Is Otter-hunting Fair Sport?

(6) The Cruelty of Shooting.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF

S
2; gm}? MlEDDLETON

80. Moauav Sfﬁa.
T
MANCHESTéR

 

 

_._‘. .r'

 




