AN 1 lMl/AIL W IE IL FA 1.1 I; =

'A CHALLENGE

It is submitted for your consideration \. A

i. That there can be no difference in PRINCIPLE between the right
treatment of Human Beings and the right treatment of Animals.

2. That the exploitation of Animals differs only in KIND and DEGREE
from the exploitation of Human Beings.

3. That acceptance in principle of the exploitation of animals involves
acceptance in principle of exploitation generally.

4. That candour demands the recognition of exploitation where 1' it
occurs, and acknowledgment of responsibility therefor i

~ 5. That study of theneed for and means of improving 'the"condition

and treatment of animals must rationauy proceed from the departure- point
of the ills inﬂicted Upon them by mankind, and not from that of the
excuses proffered for the inﬂiction of SuCh ills

6. . That examination proves that in the civilisation of to- day the A
general ill— —usage of animals is increasing instead of decreasing.

7. ' That this increase occurs in spite of the contemporary increase Of ,
humane feeling in the average human being, and is due in part to
general ignorance of its existence, and in part to the increasing commer-
cialisation of all means of supply, transport and destruCtion. ' 1

8. That the exploitation of animals is incidental to most and basic
to some of the aspects of modern daily life (See notes below). »

9.; That means of reducing, and in some cases of elimlnatmg Such
exploitation are diSCOVerable, and 1 . .

10. That they must be adopted if the ethical progress of mankind is
1 to continue. . 1 ..

 




AN INCOMPLETE CATALOGUE A

ofgl-forms of ill-usage of animals, occuring in connection with" . h.

A’ j'
”“ 1...;

“£2
xv
Y

Was-m

Food.'\'Slaughter of m11110ns.--Breedingfor slaughter. Breeding “for 53

meat-bearing, involving degradation in intelligence and distortion in bodily
form; ’ ‘

Clothing. Furs ; involving torture by trapping of ‘vast majority, and'_
breeding for‘ killing of remainder. Feathers ; often‘obtained, by suffering.
.Hand and foot wear; the greater part supplied by bye-products of food,
butisome, e.g., reptile—skin shoes and garments, by killing, and sometimes
breeding, creatures which would otherwise go unmolested.

. Industry. Employment under unsuitable conditions, e.g., horses and
ponies” in mines, sale of cast ‘horses for work or butchery overseas,
overwo’rking " and over-loading, close and constant chaining of watch—dogs,
useiof cats as scarecrows. .

‘Companionship. Destruction orabandonment of unwanted dogs and
eats: Caging of wild birds. Cage—breeding.

Amusement. Hunting and shooting. Breeding forxshooting. Exter—
'mination of ‘-‘. big game.” Mis-use or wild animals ,for spectacular ﬁlms. ,1
Menagerie, circus and performing animals generally.

Instruction} Public and private collections of caged animals;
Physiology.” Animals used for» experiments (vivisection).
Medicine; (As Physiology). Animals used in preparation of serums

and vaccines. Test animals fer drugs and poisons. .

6

-War. Animals used in campaigns. Animals used in ‘poison gas”

experiments. ‘ ' ‘ ‘ .\

 

  ‘ NATIONALCOUNCIL [FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE '

3 ) 9

 




