 

 

 

WIHIIE mum

 

 

 

 

Issued by

THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS,

105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

 

 




When the Rodeo exhibition was
staged at Wembley in 1924, it met
with the severe condemnation of the
R.S.P.C.A. and a very large section
of the British Press. This pamphlet,

published at that time, contains
much of interest on the subject of
such exhibitions.

 

 




4.- .wn

w —‘<—e—~m—W.—M~—_‘

 

 

THE TRUTH ABOUT
THE RODEO (1924).

HEN the Rodeo Show was produced at the British

Empire Exhibition at Wembley in 1924, The Sporting Life,
which can in no sense be regarded as an organ of kill-joy,
crank or faddist opinion, printed an article in its issue of June
16th condemning the so-called ‘ sport.’ We reproduce without
comment the following extract :—

“In the lassoing and throwing of steer, and in the wrestling with
them, the Rodeo challenged criticism strongly ; it was a direct
challenge to the British idea of sport and of fair-play for the
dumb animals and the under-dog . . . . It is not sport—which
is what visitors to the Rodeo were asked to believe. The lassoing
and throwing of domestic animals more or less tame in a com-
paratively conﬁned place like the Wembley Stadium, big
though it is, is comparable With the coursing of rabbits in a
ﬁeld in which all the bolt-holes are stopped—the kind of ‘ sport ’
Which is forbidden by law in this country.

“At the afternoon show visitors were frankly disapproving
of the cattle-throwing exhibition, but it was left to the evening
to bring out more deﬁnite protest.”

CASUALTIES AT THE WEMBLEY RODEO CONTESTS.

On the evening of the 14th June one steer had its leg broken.

On the 17 th June two steers were very lame and one had the
left horn broken.

On the 18th June one steer had its neck broken, two steers
were very lame and eight steers were bleeding from the nostrils.

On the 19th June one steer had its neck broken after being
thrown several times, one steer had the right horn broken, one
steer had the left ear badly lacerated and two steers were very lame.
(All these casualties happened in connection with the Steer Roping)

On the 16th June two steers had their horns broken.

On the 17th June, afternoon performance, one steer had a
horn broken, another had a horn loosened, was bleeding from the
mouth, and had a bleeding wound on the rump ; at the evening
performance one steer, after being thrown, had the left horn
broken. '

On the 20th June, at the afternoon performance, two steers
were bleeding at the nose after the wrestling; at the evening
performance two others were in the same condition.

3

 




 

On the 21st June, afternoon performance, one steer was very
lame ; at the evening performance two steers had blood coming
from the nostrils.

On the 23rd June, evening performance, one steer was
bleeding from the nose after wrestling.

On the 27th June, afternoon performance, a steer was bleeding
from the nose and near eye.

Of course there were casualties among the cowboys and
cowgirls—this wasto be expected and to be regretted; but it
'must be remembered that the humans knew what they were
doing and were out to win some of the “ huge purses,”_and were
at all events assured of a share in “ the entire net gate receipts
of one performance.”

POINTS WORTH NOTING

The Rodeo NOT an Example of Colonial Life. This Show was
announced as an International Rodeo, and great stress was laid
on the fact that it was particularly suitable for presentation at
the British Empire Exhibition because it would show a certain
phase of colonial life at an Exhibition which was to demonstrate
the greatness of the British Empire. In evidence, during the
R.S.P.C.A. prosecution, the American manager was compelled to
admit that out of a total of 140 entries, 110 were citizens of the
United States, “ the rest were Canadians, Australians, Mexicans or
Argentines.” This would be of no importance in an ordinary
circus or other show, but for the stress which’ was laid on the
fact that the Rodeo represented a true phase of colonial life and
was therefore suitable for such an Empire Exhibition. Yet the
Society received a letter from the Canadian Cowboy Contest
Managers’ Association of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, in which occur
the following sentences : “There is nothing cruel on our pro-

gramme, and we would also like it to be known that we do not -

indulge in either Steer Roping or Steer Bull-dogging at our contests
here. Canada is not ofﬁcially represented at the Rodeo. We
want it clearly understood that contests held in this line in Canada
do not present anything of an objectionable nature, certainly not
Steer Roping and Steer Bull-dogging.”

“Wild and Vicious Animals.” . In describing the steer-wrestling
in the programme issued by the management at Wembley, the
steers were called “ wild,” and mention was made of the “ vicious
nature and size of the steers.” Many of these were landed at
Avonmouth, and an eye-witness described them as follows:

4

‘0'




i
.1.

 

 

Copyright L.N.A.

Steer Riding. Note the distressed condition of the animal,

as evidenced from the lolling tongue, the angle of the foot,

which shows how the spur ’was used to hold on, and the
bell which added to the animal’s confusion.

 

“ These cattle are supposed to be wild, but they are no more wild
than other store cattle that I have seen landed at Avonmouth.
I understand these cattle were loose during the voyage until three
days prior to arriving at Avonmouth, when head lines were put on
and they were tied up.” Wild and vicious cattle loose——wild and
vicious cattle tied up ! Can you imagine what would have
happened in either case ? And after the contests had been
completed, and the “ Wild ” and “ vicious ” steers were no longer
required to entertain the public, they were sold to a farmers in

 




 

Kent and were turned out to grass on the marshes, when, as is
mentioned by a writer to the East Kent Gazette, they were “ quite
docile—far more so than beasts on our own marshes—and they
had to be stirred up to a state of excitement before they could
make any sort of show.”

The description of the horses given in the ofﬁcial programmes
is : “ The horses are not trained show buckers, but untameable
outlaws, skilled and experienced in throwing riders.” The Daily
Express reported that “ the ﬁerce bucking broncho that unseated
practically all comers at the Rodeo at Wembley is at present being
ridden placid and bare-backed by a farmer’s boy in Norwich, and
is to be sold as a van horse.” The purchaser of the Rodeo horse
further informed The Daily Express reporter that “ he had, found
the bronks mild and well-behaved,” and that he “thought the
bucking characteristics were produced by a girth under the ﬂank.”
That this is so can be seen from the illustrations which appeared
in various newspapers at the time, and from the fact, recorded by
eye-witnesses, that the moment the cinch rope, which is ﬁxed
tightly against the most sensitive part of the animal, is loosened,
the bucking horse becomes absolutely passive.

In a prosecution, heard in Jersey, against a ‘ cowboy ” for
unduly spurring a horse at a so-called “Rodeo,” evidence was
given that the animal was a local cart-horse and was so docile that
it would not buck without spurring. A veterinary surgeon described
- the display as the most disgraceful he had ever seen. The cowboy
who had also ridden at Wembley, was ﬁned £1.

Withdrawal of Steer-Roping. Though the English producer
of this American form of entertainment publicly stated that the
Rodeo “ will appeal to the best sporting instincts of a British
crowd,” he had to withdraw part of the Show (steer roping) because
the public, the police, the R.S.P.O.A. and finally, the Exhibition
authorities, demanded this !

(

Competitors without Thought of Gain. A great point was
made, in all preliminary announcements of the Rodeo, of the fact
that the contestants were entering the competitions at their own
expense and without any thought of gain. But, to quote from
the prospectus issued from the New York City Headquarters of
the Imperial Rodeo, “ in addition to the huge Prizes the entire net
gate receipts for one performance will again be divided equally
between all participants. . . . Your share in the gate receipts will
make it well worth your while to be here, even if you are unlucky
in the contests.” Press announcements show that, at the ﬁnish
of this show, the proﬁts on the three weeks were £72,000, and
“ ﬁnancially,” so said the Yorkshire Evening Argus, “ the Rodeo
has been a great success, so much so that Austin swears "he will
inﬂict: one on us next year and every year.” And yet the English
promoter said he “ did not make a penny ”!

6

5 v3;

 




 

t

 

The Society’s Early Protests and the Organisers’ Tactics.
The R.S.P.C.A. was accused by the English producer of being
" unsportsmanlike—un-English," because the Society protested
against the introduction» of such a show into the country “ without
ﬁrst assuring themselves that anything. will take place to which
they might reasonably object.” Subsequent events showed that
the Society was more than justiﬁed in what it did, namely, when
the preliminary announcements were made, to communicate at
once with the “ organiser ” and warn him, on the reports of eye-
witnesses, oﬁ‘icials of the American S.P.C.A. and kindred Societies,
that the Society would take action. This was three months
before the Show was billed to appear at the British Empire
Exhibition, and at that time the organiser courteously oﬂered
every facility for the Society’s Inspectors to see the animals
before and during the contests, but subsequently withdrew the
permission. Pressure was later brought to bear, and once more
he gave permission .and announced the fact publicly in a letter to
the Press——very widely circulated to allay public feeling no
doubt—while at the same time he and his representatives refused
such facilities, and the Society’s Inspectors were never allowed
to go behind to examine the animals before or after the contests.
This fact is particularly interesting because the “ organiser "
stated in a letter to the Society, that “ rather than that the
public should be under the impression that anything will take place
which I wish to conceal, I am happy to offer you and your
Inspectors the fullest facilities.” This point of view was further
emphasised in a speech made by the Earl de la Warr in the House
of Lords, when he said “ Mr. Henderson (the Home Secretary)
felt strongly that the promoters would be extremely unwise if they
were to continue in their policy of refusing to have the Society’s
Inspectors behind the scene, and hoped very much that they would
reconsider this policy. If they did. not, the public would draw
their own conclusions and feel, after all, that there was something
behind.” The Promoters did not alter their policy, and still refused
the Society’s Inspectors facilities. Comment is needless.

The British Empire Exhibition’s Financial Gain. In the
evidence of the American Manager of the Wembley Rodeo it
transpired that the British Empire Exhibition Authorities received
semewhere about 20 or 30~per cent. of the gross receipts of the Rodeo.
It is naturally to be supposed, therefore, that the Exhibition
Authorities beneﬁted considerably frOm what British Press
condemned as cruelty.

 




 

. ,The Rodeo and a British Charity. It is interesting to note
that the tactics fer popularising the Rodeo Show were the same in
England as in America.

In New York City a portion of the proceeds of one show were
toébe given to a War Charity and, therefore, the Committee of that
Charity supported the entertainment and brought all possible
inﬂuence to bear against the action of the American S.P.C.A. to
end the cruelties of the performance.

In England all the proﬁts of the opening day’s performances
were given to a well-known British Charity as an inducement to
that Charity to circularise its supporters and make sure of an
enthusiastic audience.

As their methods of publicity were the same, their cruel
methods were also identical.

The same turns, which in America and in Canada have made
people protest at the unnecessary cruelty, were included in the
programme; and though such items as bulldogging a steer are
forbidden in California and in Texas, yet they were allowed in
London in spite of the protests of thousands and the condemnation
of a large portion of the, British Press ! It is true that steer-roping
was discontinued in public when pressure was brought to, bear on
the promoter, and was ﬁnally stopped in private by the Exhibition
authorities “ because a considerable amount of public comment
had been directed against this particular item of the contests.”
(Extract from the Deputy Administrator’s letter, dated 19th June,
1924, to the Organiser.) The fact that pressure was brought to
bear on the British organiser of the Rodeo more than justiﬁes the
action of the R.S.P.C.A. in warning him, when the preliminary
notices appeared in the Press, of what steps would be taken to
prevent cruelty in this country when such treatment of animals is
totally unnecessary and carried out mainly for the amusement of
the unthinking and the ﬁnancial gain of the promoters of Rodeo
Shows.

We have been told that the casualties cannot be helped.
Such casualties have occurred Whenever such shows have taken
place—Whether in America or in this country———and that they do
happen testiﬁes to the fact that they are inevitable, particularly
under the artiﬁcial conditions of a conﬁned space. Therefore
such shows should be eliminated from all programmes of public
or private entertainment. It is true that several people, well-
known and otherwise, came forward at the R.S.P.C.A. prosecution
to testify to the care and good treatment given to the animals.
Comparisons were made between the Rodeo Showr and other forms
of entertainment and sport, but many of these witnesses were
not present When the actual cruelty alleged occurred, and their
evidence was very general and in many cases surprisingly vague.

8




FAMOUS JOURNALIST’S
COMMENTS.

On the other hand, and quite apart from the evidence of the
R. S. P. C. A. Inspectors,w we have the public statement of Mr. H. W.
Nevinson, the well-known war correspondent, who wrote some
weeks before the Rodeo was staged at Wembley: “ I have been
an‘ eye-witness’ of the Rodeo performance in America, and the
part which had to do with bullocks was, to me, ,a cruel and
disgusting spectacle. The game was for a icowboy to seize the
bullock by the horns and twist its head and neck round till the
agony compelled the creature to lie down, just as the pain compels
a man or boy to lie down if you twist his arm long enough . . . We
should unite in protesting against this part of the cowboy perform-
ance.” This view of such a well-known writer has been supported
by a great many of the British Press-_as the published extracts
show—and also by a large section of the public who, by protesting
or, better still, by staying away from the Stadium, prevented the
organiser from making, as he publicly stated in bankruptcy
proceedings, “ another £50,000 or £60,000,” which would “ have
made all the difference ” to his ﬁnancial position.

The R.S.P.C.A. Prosecutions.

Because, by a majority of one, a Bench of magistrates
dismissed the summons for cruelty, the whole matter was
temporarily whitewashed, and arrangements were made
in different parts of the country to hold similar shows,
or at all events shows masquerading under the now fashionable
name of Rodeo.

During the summer of 1923, at a Hampshire horse-show, a
so-called Rodeo was arranged as one of the attractions of the
programme. The defendant was to have given an exhibition of
steer riding on a ﬁery untamed steer. The animal was borrowed
from a local butcher and was tied up to a tree with a rope, while
another rope was tightly tied round the body, just behind the
elbow joint. The steer plunged and fell several times, and at
length it fell and broke one of its horns off at the root. The
defendant pleaded guilty and was ﬁned £15 and £8 88. costs.

At the Thames Police Court another cowboy was ﬁned £20
and £5 58. costs for cruelty to a steer Whi(h was used for steer
riding in a show at the Poplar Hippodrome while both its horns
were injured close to the skull, and the head and cheeks were
covered with congealed blood.

 




 

Lop) right L.N.A. and The Freeman's Journal
The Cinch Rope is ﬁxed tightly against the most sensitive:
part of the animal. In: both cases note the spurs

IO

 

a...“

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

PRESS OPINIONS

THE Somerron’s JOURNAL. 12th July, 1924.——“ The Rodeo
summonses, which were dismissed by a majority of six to ﬁve-
have performed a useful service in calling attention to the
cruelty of the performances. . . . This case stands to the credit
of the R.S.P.O.A., and on the well-known facts as to the Rodeo
Exhibition there is no doubt the summonses would have succeeded
had the justices applied the law.”

THE TIMES, 8th July, 1924.—“ It is of course no argument to
say that the performance cannot be cruel because it is habitually
carried out on the prairies—there is all the difference in the
world between the least pleasant side of a necessary business
and the parade of it as a popular amusement. . . . . .
The hostile demonstration which condemned the incident of
the broken leg was quite enough, and rightly drove remaining
steer-roping performances out of the public arena. The second
day of the Rodeo was the brighter and better for the omission
of the steer-roping from the public programmes . . . a tactful

concession to public opinion.”

   
   

Photo copyngnt the ' Deny Mail ”

“ In the struggle to get the steer’s neck twisted and so produce

its fall, gripped the beast by the mouth and nostril and forced
its head round.”—The Times.

II

 




 

THE DAILY GRAPHIC, 8th July, 1924.——“ By a majority of one a
bench of eleven justices decided that steer-roping when carried
on for the entertainment of spectators is not cruel . . . we
deeply regret that steer-roping has been judicially White-washed
. . . . It is impossible to make a water-tight deﬁnition of
cruelty ; our standards of this, as of most abstract ideas, vary
from generation to generation. We have got rid of bear-
baiting, cock-ﬁghting and pigeon-shooting, once popular and
reputable amusements. There are several practised that our
grandsons will think equally horrible. Although our J .P.s
countenance the introduction of an alien ‘sport’ which is at
very least on the border line, it will be our own fault if we allow
it to become established.”

BIRMINGHAM Posr.—“ The steer are said to be wild. Those used
on Saturday were wild only in the sense that some of them
dashed their bodies against the barriers in attempts to escape
. . . . Some of the Rodeo programme was intensely unpleasant
. . . The spectacle of a man down on the ground wrestling
with a horned head was repellant. The twisting at the horns
and the clutching at the nostrils must have caused the steer
excruciating pain. . . .”

SHEFFIELD DAILY TELECRAPH.—“ A public which would reprobate
the tying of tin cans to dogs laughed to see bullocks leaping
about as though to rid themselves of the bells. . . . ”

WESTMINSTER GAZETTE.—“ It was not an edifying sight to see a
man wrestling with a bullock.”

MANCHESTER GUARDIAN.—“ The opening performances showed
that fears of a cruel, and therefore degrading, exhibition were
not baseless. . . ”

LEICESTER MAIL.-—-—“ The Rodeo sails as near as it can to the
bull-ﬁght Without actually being it. . . . ”

THE YORKSHIRE OBSERVER.—“ Roughness to animals, even of
the size of a steer, is something We do not like in this country.”

NEWCASTLE CHRONICLE.—“ The R.S.P.C.A. has created a public
opinion that will not tolerate any form of ill-usage towards
animals of any kind.”

BIRMINGHAM POST.——.“'. . . . Bull-dogging may“ be counted 8.
sport, but a number of the animals turned out of the chute
this afternoon clearly had no relish for it. . . . Bull-dogging is
undesirable. . . .” ‘ '

12




THE STAR, 20th June, 1924.—“ We have rarefully refrained from
hasty or excessive condemnation of the doubtful features of
the Rodeo entertainment at Wembley in the hOpe that the
management would recognise and defer to the undoubted public
objection. . . . We feel that the time has arrived to tell . .
that, whatever the police may think and whatever the result
of the proceedings taken by the R.S.P.C.A. may be, steer»
roping, whether in public or private, must be stopped. Each
day brings a new tale of painful ‘accidents,’ and England is.
not a country in which the public will long endure the baiting
of tame animals or consent to regard it as sport. The pretence
that the steer are ‘wild’ will not hold water for a moment-
A steer rounded up once a year on a vast ranch may be both
wild and dangerous, and roping may be as inevitably its lot as.
its ultimate slaughter, but these Wembley steer are as tame as
circus horses. . '. .- Quite apart from the case of the animals
themselves, there is the effect on the public to be considered.”
It is interesting to note, with regard to the article from which the above

quotations are taken, that a summons was issued for contempt of Court

against the Editor of The Star, its printers and publishers, because the-
article was supposed deliberately to prejudice the case which was still to be-
heard. The Lord Chief Justice with two other Judges in the High Court
refused to grant the application, and His Lordship held that “the article

did not go beyond what a public writer was fairly entitled to say on such an

occasion and on such a subject.”

NORTH EASTERN DAILY GAZETTE.——-“ . . . The intrusion of the
Rodeo into a British Empire Exhibition, intended to be all

. British and nothing but British, is a lapse from good sense.”

BELFAST TELEGRAPH.——“ London is not going to stand for cruelty
7 to animals, no matter under whose auspices it occurs.”

LANCASHIRE DAILY POST.——“. . . . The steer trumpeted their
rage or whimpered their distress unavailingly. . . . The much
vaunted wrestling or bull-dogging was a heartrending stupidity-
. . . . Only after much the same sort of torture as Gotch
meted out to Hackenschmidt, was a racked beast brought low._
. . . The same degree of cruelty towards his moke would have
landed any coster in London in prison . . . it is a bad blot . . .”‘

WESTERN DAILY PRESS, 16th June, ’24.——“ At the very ﬁrst.
performance one of the steer sustained a broken leg, and it
was noticeable that the shouts of protests and the demand that
the performance should be stopped at once came from all sections--
of the huge audience gathered around the Stadium. It is evident.

that there is a good deal of feeling against this class of enter-5
tainment " -

1

 

The Italics in this pamphlet are our own.

.13

 




 

 

Telegraphic Address Telephone Number
" CRUELTY. LONDON " WHITEHALL 7117 (3 lines)

 

(FOUNDED 1824)

Royal Patrons:
HIS MAJESTY KING GEORGE V.
HER MAJESTY QUEEN MARY

President Chairman :
'H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES, SIR ROBERT GOV/ER,
K.G., K.T., K.P. O.B.E., Hon. D.C.L., J.P., M.P.

mmmmwmmmmmmmmmmwwwmmmmmm

THE SOCIETY’S WORK
DURING 1933

27,815 complaints of cruelty were investigated.
2,342 offenders prosecuted and convicted for cruelty
to animals.

20,109 persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty
cautioned by Inspectors or admonished in
writing.

150,820 animals lethalised or humanely killed under
the Society’s auspices.

77,940 animals treated in the London Dispensaries
administered by Headquarters.

The R.S.P.C.A. does not beneﬁt one penny by the
ﬁnes imposed on offenders.

CHIEF SECRETARY, CAPTAIN FERGUS MACCUNN,
105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.I

 

w‘tﬁ—v— h .__. « A» --_

 

 

 




 

 




 

A CENTURY OF
WORK for ANIMALS

THE HISTORY OF THE R.S.P.C.A.
I 824—1924

By

EDWARD G. FAIRHOLME and WELLESLEY PAIN
Late CbiefSecretary, R.S.P.C.A. Editor, R.S.P.C.A.

 

Foreword by H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES, K.G.
(Preyidmt of tbe R.S.P.C.A.)

Introduction by the late LORD LAMBOURNE, C.V.O.

“COMPASSION,” an Ode,
by the late THOMAS HARDY, O.M.

 

CONTENTS. °

Foreword. By H. R. H. THE PRINCE OF WALES
(President of tbe R. S'. P. C. A .)

Introduction. By the late LORD LAMIBOURNE, C.V.O.
“ COMPASSION,” an Ode. By the late Thomas Hardy, O.M.

Ch ap ter Chapter

I. Sowing the Seed 10. The Children’s Branch of the

2. Richard Martin and his Act Society

3. The Founder of the Society II. The Humane Slaughter of

4. Early Difﬁculties and Victories Animals

5. Bull~Baiting,Cock-Fighting,etc. 12. The Society and Viviscction

6. The Royal Family and the 13. The Society and the Great War
Society I4. The Growth \of the Work in

7. Cruelty to Dogs other Countries

8. Learning to be Humane I5. SomeReforms stillin theMaking

9. Animals and the Law 16. After One Hundred Years

ILLUSTRATED CROWN 800. 7:. 6d. net.

Copies of the book can be ordered from any bookseller or from the
R.S.P.C.A., 105, JERMYN STREET, LONDON, S.W.I

 

 

 

Issued by
Tm: ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY 'ro ANIMALS,
105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.l.

 

Printed by Means 6: Caldwell Ltd., Cranmer Road. SW 9.

 




