Anti-Steel-Trap League News

Ofﬁcial-Journal of THE ANTI-STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE,

Washington, D. C.
Founded by EDWARD BRECK, M.A., Ph.D.

Incorporated

A National League formed to Outlaw the Steel-Trap, which does not kill at once, but causes Prolonged Suffering
NO PAID OFFICERS

 

 

President Secret ary-Tre-asurer

MRS. EDWARD BRECK GEN. DAVID L. BRAINARD, US.A., RTD.

Ed' Asst. Secretary-Treasurer
“or MRS. E. s. HUNTINGTON
VICE PRESIDENTS
Mrs. D. U.‘ Fletcher

Miss Lucy Furman Walter A. Dyer
Miss E. Mabel Clark F. F. Van de Water 'George Arliss
Mrs. W. L. B. Hill Mrs. Margaret Deland Miss Katherine Mayo
Dallas Lore Sharp

Miss Ida Tarbell
HONORARY VICE PRESIDENTS

Honorable Percival P. Baxter, Countess of Warwick

DECEMBER, 1934. Issuedsl’gjggicany

MR. BUCKSHAW

 




 

2 ANTI—STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE NEWS

Challenge to Humanity

A BLOW TO HUMANE TRAPPING is the
heading of an editorial in the New York
Herald-Tribune, NOV. 11th, ’34. “On elec-
tion day of 1930 Massachusetts acquired
merit with all friends of animals by pass-
ing at the polls her advanced humane trap-
ping act—by the largest referendum majority
in her history. She thus became one of the
three states to possess such a sportsmanlike
and decent law, South Carolina and Georgia
also having one, but not, it is embarrassing
to confess, New York. Humanitarians and
conservationists the country over, who had
been working for similar legislation in
every state, but had found the steel—trap a
tough opponent, took heart from Massachu-
setts.

Inevitably, as soon as game wardens be—
gan to enforce the law in earnest, protests
arose from inﬂuential quarters. The Mas-
sachusetts Humane Trapping Council, like
all who ﬁght the steel trap, came into con-
ﬂict with strong human motives; custom
(for trappers are used to the barbarous
old trap and so it seems less trouble), par—
simony (a modern trap costs something),
and pleasure (hunters fear that fur-bear-
ers may get some of the game they pre-
fer to destroy themselves). Thus the
Sportsmen’s opposition to the humane trap-
ping act was the most virulent! More dis—
couraging loomed public indifference to
cruel methods. After all, steel traps caught
few pets. For four winters inspired mur-
murs grew louder, and last spring the Mas-
sachusetts Legislature passed an amend-
ment making the enforcement of the act a
matter of local option, and this invalidat-
ing amendment itself came up on Novem-

ber 6.

So voters were asked whether the law
requiring for the taking of fur—bearing
animals “the use of traps that kill at once
or take such animals alive unharmed”
should be kept. If the amendment were
defeated at the polls, then the humane
trapping act would again be in force
throughout the state. Their answer was
a matter of keen anxiety to those who
had not under-estimated the power of the
loudly vocal opposition, for the passage

of the amendment would mean another
setback for a cause more plucky than
mighty, while its defeat would be a
triumph for tortureless trapping.

To the regret of those , who had been
heartened in their work for animals by
her stand, Massachusetts voted in favor
of local option, but there is reason to be—
lieve that the foes of humane trapping were
only more active, not more numerous, than
its friends.

THE FAILURE OF MASSACHUSETTS to re-
tain the law which meant sanctuary for her
pitifully harassed fur-bearers, must inevit-
ably bring to mind the memory of the
courageous man who ﬁrst evoked the pity
and the compassion of the people _of the
Commonwealth for their furry friends.
Commander Breck urged the anti-steel-trap
law upon the Legislature for two successive
years, (1928-9), without success. He was
not discouraged when he failed. He be—
lieved that the people of Massachusetts
were not being fairly represented and that
a referendum would prove it. Practically
alone and unaided he set about organizing
and planning for the referendum of 1930
but he died without knowing how splendid-
ly his belief in his fellow-men had been
vindicated. The Anti-Steel—Trap League
carried the ﬁght into Massachusetts by
forming a State Division of the League
there in 1929 and obtaining a man-
ager for the campaign. After a successful

. issue at the polls the Division continued in

force for a year and gave way to a newly
formed State organization called the Hu-
mane Trapping Council only after that time.
The Humane Trapping Council has for its
object the protection of the anti—steel-trap
law. Now for the moment the great ethical
question placed before the voters in 1930
has been repudiated—but we do not believe
it need be lost. The humanity of Mass-
achusetts is just as great today as it was in
1930. This is no time to be discouraged
——for “THERE is TOMORROW.” What
will the humane organizations in Massa~
chusetts do tomorrow?

 




 

gag—wvr; .. :-

.

ANTI-STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE NEWS 3-

 

THE FUR CODE HEARING held in Wash-
ington December, 1933, was attended by
the President of the League. As a repre-
sentative of thousands of humanitarians and
conservationists Mrs. Breck presented a
brief in behalf of the forgotten animals so
directly concerned in the proceedings.

Declaring that the proposed Code then
before the Deputy Commissioner of the
National Recovery Administration presented
the beneﬁts to be derived by trappers, les-
sees and lessors of land, and by employers
and employees only, and failed to give pro-
tection in any manner whatsoever to the
sentient creatures exploited by these
agencies, Mrs. Breck went on record as
opposed to it or to any other Code to be
presented for acceptance by the President,
which did not contain a clause providing
for the use of at least 50 per cent of live
traps and a limit of 50 traps to each trap-
per. In justiﬁcation of this proposal, Mrs.
Breck cited the reports of the U. S.- Bio-
logical Survey and the [Senate Committee
on Wild Life Resources which each year
for a decade past have consistently warned
of the rapid depletion of wild life due to
waste and over-trapping.

Unfortunately the Anti—Steel-Trap League
was alone in its endeavor to read into the
Code a modicum of consideration for the
welfare of our fur-bearers while commer-
cial interests were represented with strength
and determination. The result was a total
disregard of the points asked for by the
League. Instead of ﬁfty traps to each
trapper two hundred and ﬁfty were allowed
by the accepted Code, and no mention was
made of any ban on cruel or wasteful
traps. In those states where the twenty-
four hour tending law appears on the
statutes it will be manifestly impossible for
a man to examine his traps every day.

This legalized ill-treatment for one hun-
dred million innocent animals whiCh sen-
tences them to suffer and die wretchedly
might have been mitigated had suﬁicient
humane representation been made at the
hearing.

INVENTIONS FOR HUMANE TRAPPING have
been put on the market ever since the
Anti-Steel-Trap League inaugurated the
ﬁrst prize contests for substitutes of the
steel-trap. Those of Dr. Vernon Bailey
have been mentioned many times by us. Dr.
Bailey has addressed the American Society
of Mammalogists showing his inventions
and explaining their usefulness as non-

VERNON BAILEY’S HUMANE FOOTHOLD TRAP

 

"When released the coyote ran without a limp
or any sign of injury.”—Vernon Bailey.

injuring devices. For several years past
Dr. Bailey has discussed traps already on
the market for taking fur-bearers of the
smaller species, painlessly. He now offers
the Foothold Painless Trap for all larger
animals, thus removing the last feeble ex-
cuse for the use of torturing types. The
photograph reproduced above shows a coyote
in the F oothold Trap with ﬂexible chain
around ankle held by wide spring to pre-
vent injury.

ANTHROPOLOGISTS FIND LITTLE CHANGE
in mankind since the earliest times, except,
it is said, in the matter of cruelty. If the
race has improved in this respect, it is not
because cruelties have fallen away, effort-
lessly, like dead limbs from live trees.
Cruelties have always been nurtured by
ethical laggards and legislated away because
an energetic few rose up and denounced
them. With all the unnecessary cruelty of
the steel—trap proven beyond any doubt and
the evident necessity for legislation, before
its use shall be abandoned, we hear the fre-
quent cry “we have too many laws now—
why enact another?” Why, indeed? No
law enacted to prohibit cruelty becomes
onerous except to him who needs it, and
the success of its enforcement lies with every
conscientious citizen as well as those per-
sons appointed by law to enforce it.

 




 

4 ANTI—STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE NEWS

IN MAY, 1934, the Anti-Steel-Trap League
completed its ninth year of active work.
The continued interest of loyal members
and old friends, together with the added
zest of new ones, have given us every‘op-
portunity to remain active through depressed
years. We wish to take this opportunity
to thank all who have stimulated and sup-
ported this work and to say that without
their participation it would have been im-
possible to gain the prest10e which is ours
today.

During the ﬁrst struggling days of the
League’s existence, before the world had
been aroused .to the. horror of the steel-trap,
Commander Breck' appealed to writers,
poets, teachers, press and church to help
him. The appeal has been answered again
and again. The most representative news-
papers in the country have raised their
powerful voices against the use of the steel-
trap; educators have joined the crusade;
librarians keep our pamphlets on' ﬁle; poets
have effectively appealed to our hearts and
the vast power of the radio has carried our
message to a listening world. Our ideals
have been translated into practical results
which prove the value of our methods.
These methods have caused us to remain the
leading force in this ﬁeld of work.

THE NEW DEAL is bringing help in answer
to the S. O. S. of Wildfowl. The new Chief
of the Bureau of Biological Survey, himself
an ardent conservationist of many years’
standing, has had placed at his disposal by the
Government a large sum of money to be
spent in the purchase and rental of lands as
refuges for migratory birds and other wild
life. Most of the publicity given to the
plans of the Survey deal with waterfowl.
It is regrettable that the usual phraseology
puts the mammals in the class of “also-
rans” and, like them, the “other forms” re—
main almost forgotten. The Survey con-
tinues to carry on its poisoning of predators
and while giving assurance to the trappers
that “poison operations have been greatly
reduced” Chief Darling says, “our efforts
have been concentrated on the use of
traps for taking predators.” Happily Mr.
Darling says that he is of the opinion
the work of capturing predators “should be
concentrated in taking marauding predators
rather than attacking the masses.” Hereto-
fore poisoning has taken place on so great
a scale, and has been so indiscriminately
used over large areas that many valu-

*Fur-Fi.sh-Gawm.e, June, 1 934.

able fur—bearers and innocent birds have met
the fate of a few undesirable individuals.
The Survey, disseminates trapping informa-
tion through trapping magazines. “Brief
Hints for Trappers,” by W. E. Crouch, U. S.
Biological Survey, published in Fur—Fish-
Game, September, 1934, contains this state-
ment: “The steel-trap has proven its effec—
tiveness through many decades of trapping
far and wide, and in spite of the objection
occasionally made to its use, a device that
is more practical has not thus far been put
on the market.” In this manner the Federal
Bureau under which our fur-bearers have
so greatly diminished and of whose methods
Chief Darling says, “The present system of
fur animal conservation and protection has
not proved effective,”* supports the use by
trappers of an instrument wholly indis-
criminating, wasteful and vicious.

THE WARMTH OF CAMEL’s HAIR has its
secret in insulation. Sylvan I. Stroock,
manufacturer of camel’s hair fabrics, is the
authority for the following: “In every hair
there is what is known as a medullary ray.
This ray is enclosed by a double walled
sheath, just as the inner container of a ther-
mos bottle is surrounded by an air space.
In addition to this air space the hair of the
camel contains capsules of oxygen which pro-
duce its insulating quality. Further, it is
known that in any ﬁber the greater insulat-
ing properties the more static electricity is it
capable of generating. The handling of a
pure camel’s hair fabric shows that it seems
to be alive with static. This static may be
regarded as a new or reviviﬁed life, making
it active and adaptable to all forms of vary-
ing atmospheric conditions. The camel in
traversing the mountain peaks and plains of
Mongolia is subject to very sudden changes
in temperature. The variance of 60 or 70
degrees is often encountered within the span
of an hour or so. Naturally it would be
very hard to withstand these changes unless
the animal was provided with a covering that
would permit this. These remarkable in-
sulating qualities are found 'in no other fab-
rics, except perhaps the llama, which is the
camel’s South American cousin.”

THEY Do IT BETTER IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
On January 12, 1934, the anti-steel-trap law
was again saved from its enemies in this
southern State. Assemblyman Connor, of
Orangeburg, and Assemblyman S. O. Eaddy,
of Florence, spoke for it on humane grounds
saving it in the House by a vote of 25 to 19.

 

 

 




 

 

ANTI-STEEL—TRAP LEAGUE NEWS 5

 

 

Audubon Association Affairs

AUDUBON ASSOCIATION TRAPPING. At the
annual meeting Of the National Association
Of Audubon Societies on October 30,
1934, a resolution was Offered by Miss LuCy
Furman, Vice-President of the Anti-Steel-
Trap League, to discontinue trapping by the
Association on the Rainey Wild Life Sanctu—
ary in Louisiana for a period of three years
for the purpose of Observation. This refuge
is owned and Operated by the N. A. A. S.

The resolution was seconded by Dr. Wil—
lard Van Name, American Museum of Nat—
ural History, and upheld by a group Of
conservationists including members Of the
Audubon Association, the Emergency Con—
servation Committee, the Anti-Steel—Trap
League and others who are utterly Opposed
to trapping on a Sanctuary, in the ﬁrst
place; to trapping with the steel-trap, in
the second, and to the continuance of such
a practice by the A. A. without its having
sufﬁciently established the fact that trapping
of any sort is necessary. This resolution
Was voted down. The resignation Of Dr.
T. Gilbert Pearson, for more than twenty
years President of the National Association
of Audubon Societies, was hailed as a
triumph by Mrs. Charles Noel Edge, Chair-
man Of the Emergency Conservation Com-
mittee. The Opposition of the E. C. C.,
which has always held Dr. Pearson and his
policies inimical to the purposes for which
the A. A. was formed, has been a potent
factor in the discontent within the Associa—
tion, resulting, it is believed, in the resigna-
tion of Dr. Pearson.

With the election of Kermit Roosevelt to
the Presidency, a new era, fraught with the
possibility Of a return to sounder policies

and the former prestige of the organization,

has Opened for the N. A. A. S.

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF AUDUBON SO—

CIETY responsible for unfavorable repercus—'

sion. When the Conservation Commissioner
of Massachusetts Opened the State Forests
to trapping with the steel~trap the N. A.
A. S. was cited as having, “Turned down. . .t
a resolution which would forbid the use Of
traps in the Rainey Wild Life Sanctuary for
Birds and Animals . . . the experts take the
same position that Commissioner York does

. that until some better trap is devised,
the steel-trap is the only dependable weapon
for use for protection Of the more valuable

forms Of wild life.” (Holyoke Telegram,
NOV. 1, :34). Thus does the National As-
sociation of Audubon Societies constitute
itself an example of cruel trapping to be
emulated by politicians sympathetic to com-
mercial interests.

 

NATIONAL FUR WEEK, usually held in
November, is to the fur trade what Mother’s
Day is to the ﬂorist. A commercial enter-
prise for proﬁt. A concerted scheme of ad-
vertising is carried out from coast to coast
to make the world more “fur-conscious.”
The past year has been somewhat improved
for the fur trade and has caused the furrier
to be more cheerful but, according to Time,
November 13th, 1933, “at least 84 individuals,
70 corporations and ﬁve labor organizations
connected with the $100,000,000 of the U. S.
fur business had no reason whatever to feel
cheerful. They were indicted by the Federal
Government in a sweeping drive to stamp
out racketeering in the fur trade.”

MIss EDITH PATCH, PH.D., Entomologist
of the University of Maine, is co-author
with Harrison E. Howe, of the “Nature
and Science Readers,” Macmillan, which
have now reached their ﬁfth issue. Num-
ber Five devotes a chapter to “FUR and
WOOL” in which the manner of taking
fur, its necessity for warmth and its de-
mand by fashion have been sympathetically
treated. This League and its effort tO
abolish the . steel—trap, in order to make
fur an ethically legitimate article of com-
merce, are mentioned, and a delightful ac-
count is given Of “Grey Owl,” the Canadian
Indian who gave up trapping because of its
cruelty and became a conservationist in the
employ of the Canadian Government. Edu-
cation Of the very young child, when begun
by such understanding information as is to
be found in the Nature and Science Readers
of Miss Patch and Mr. Howe, must in-
evitably lead to a balanced development Of
heart and head.

BEQUESTS TO THE LEAGUE by two of our
interested members have been of the great-
est beneﬁt in carrying on through this
depressed ﬁnancial state. Sympathetic with
the aims Of the League, these members not
only gave strength to our purpose during
their lives but have caused their work to
live after them.

 




 

 

 

ANTI-STEEL—TRAP LEAGUE NEWS

A CORRESPONDENCE

U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE
BUREAU OF BIOLOGICAL SURVEY
"TWASHINGTON, D. C.

March 16th, 1934.

Capt. C. W. Hume,

University of London, Animal Welfare
Society,

68 Torrington Square,

London, W.C.I.

Dear Sir:

Your letter Of February 28 is received.

The Biological Survey considers a cam-
paign such as those that have generally been
conducted by anti-steel-trap advocates as
likely to be more harmful than beneﬁcial,
owing to the obvious lack of information as
to the facts by those conducting the cam-
paigns.

It is our understanding that in those States
where anti—steel-trap laws have been in force
for some time they have been repealed be-
cause they proved impracticable.

We suggest that you correspond with Mr.
David C. Mills,'Retail Furriers Guild, Box
482, Darien, Connecticut, regarding further
information on this subject.

Very truly yours,
(Signed) Frank G. Ashbrook,
In Charge, Division of Fur
Resources.

UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL
WELFARE SOCIETY

Care The University of London Union
68 T ORRINGTON SQUARE
LONDON, W.C.I.

5th April, 1934.

Frank G. Ashbrook, Esq.,
Division Of Fur Resources,
Bureau of Biological Survey,
Washington, D. C.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter of March 16th
and note your statement that “in those States
where anti-steel-trap laws have been in force
for some time they have been repealed.”
Would you be so very kind as to tell me
which States these are and on what dates the
repeals took place?

I am obliged to you for referring me to
the Retail Furriers’ Guild, but at the same
time a little puzzled. In this Society we
make a point Of relying on no information
which is not authentic in the scientiﬁc sense
and it is a little surprising, therefOre, tO ﬁnd

a scientiﬁc Government Department which

has recourse to a trade organization with the

strongest possible motives for biased Opinions.
With repeated thanks, ‘I am,

Very truly yours,
(Signed) C. W. Hume.

THE ANTI—STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE
THE DUPONT CIRCLE BUILDING
WASHINGTON, D. C.

May 8th, 1934

Mr. Jay N. Darling,
Chief, Biological Survey,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Darling:

May I bring to your attention the enclosed
correspondence between Captain C. W.
Hume, M. C., B. Sc., Of London, and Mr.
Ashbrook, Of the Biological Survey. The
misinformation sent out by the Survey clear-
ly indicates the sort Of thing which has tend-
ed tO bring the Survey into disrepute in the
United States and will, if allowed to con-
tinue, holdvit up to ridicule in other countries.

I have no doubt Of your stand in regard
to steel-traps, detested of all conservation-
ists and forbidden in the National Parks by
resolution of Parks’ Ofﬁcers and superin-
tendents. You will, I am sure, wish tO
avoid in the future the unfavorable repercus-
sion that is inevitable and must be borne by
the Chief Of the Survey from such misguided
letters as the enclosed.

A recent telephone call to my Ofﬁce from
the Biological Survey inquiring which states
have passed anti-steel—trap laws shows an
ignorance concerning present trapping legis-
lation on the part of the Survey which pre-
cludes the reliability of any information it
may disseminate on repeal of such laws. It
is signiﬁcant that this knowledge was not in
the hands Of Mr. Ashbrook when he wrote
to Captain Hume.

With conﬁdence in your co-Operation, I am,

‘ Sincerely,
(Signed)
M. S. BRECK.

RECOMMENDS LIVE TRAPS. As early as
Nov., 1929, Fur-Fish-Game said, editorially,
Of live traps: “So far, catch alive and un-
injured traps have been put on the market
from numerous sections . . . all of which
seem to be quite successful. Traps of this
character will ﬁnd an enlarged market at
least until the wild supply (of fur) is prac-
tically eliminated.”

 

 




ANTI-STEEL—TRAP LEAGUE NEWS 7

 

 

of
(If property describe it fully.)

 

FORM OF BEQUEST*

I do hereby give, devise and bequeath to the Anti-Steel-T rap
League, Inc., under the laws of the District of Columbia, the sum

*No Estate Tax is levied on legacies or bequests to the Anti=SteelHTrap League, lnCL

dollars.

 

 

Both Feet Caught

THINGS FOR THOUGHT are to be found in
the utterances of trappers themselves. The
President Of the American Trappers Asso-
ciation says, Pelt, Sept., ’34, “The ﬂesh bait
may be cut from beef, venison, wood-
_ chuck, porcupine, horse, skunk, etc., or an
entire small bird . . . may be used.”

"IN 1930 NEW YORK STATE OUTLAWED
ALL TOOTHED TRAPS and those with a
spread of more than six inches. An illumi-
nating comment by H. G. Wilson, Director
Of the 2nd District, American Trappers
Association, is made in the July, 1930, issue
of Far-Fish-Game. Who should know bet-
ter than this representative of his, Associa-
tion the law-abiding propensity Of his
fellow—trappers P

“Governor Roosevelt, when signing the
bill in New York State, said it gave him
great pleasure to legislate these traps out
of existence. Traps with teeth are very

 

necessary for catching otter and beaver
and due to the fact that wilderness trap-
pers that catch these two animals will
persist in using this type of trap, the new
law notwithstanding, it is another case of
making outlaws out of otherwise honest
men. While it may be possible that traps
with six inch spread will take everything
that is to be trapped in the State the fact
remains that N. Y. trappers have quite an
investment in traps which have a slightly
larger jaw spread than six inches.”
Honesty has its limits, it seems!

 

Massachusetts Trappers Lawless says
Fiir-Fish-Game, Sept, 1933. “We do not
know of anyone using box traps to take
animals for their pelts and they never will
be regardless of laws that may or may not
be enacted. 'Take Massachusetts, for in-
stance, where the anti-steel-trap law was
recently nulliﬁed. * * * Trappers did not use
box traps there during the period when
steel-traps were illegal; the trapping in that
Commonwealth was done by outlaw trappers
who used regular steel—traps.”

 

THE ALASKA SEAL Is THE SEAL OF OUR
APPROVAL is the caption Of an advertisement
of Macy’s in New York. “We have com-
pared notes with the seal who is one Of the
warmest characters on record and, using his
pelt as a standard, have tested, via our ther-
mal transmission machine, great ﬂocks of
winter merchandise. . .” The result of this test
proved that a child’s play suit on sale by the
Macy store was found to be 79.6% as warm
as Alaska seal; a reversible wool-lined suede
jacket for men, worn with leather out, was
92.8% as warm: silk and angora pull-Over
shirts for men 59.4% as warm; all wool re-
versible blanket, 93.7% as warm; silk and
wool shirts for infants. 70.8% as warm.

We have been honored by the addition Of
Miss Ida Tarbell to our list of Vice—Presi-
dents and of Mrs. E. S. Huntington as
Assistant Secretary and Treasurer of the
League.

 




 

 

' 8 ” ANTI-STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE NEWS

 

Other Countries

ENGLAND FOLLOWS SUIT. The University
Of London Animal Welfare Society of which
Captain C. W. Hume, M. C., B. Se. is Honor-
able Secretary, is offering an anti-steel-trap
bill to Parliament. Under date of February
28, ’34, Captain Hume writes: “This SO-
ciety is promoting a, bill, a copy of which
will shortly be sent you, for abolishing the
steel-trap in Britain. We are in for a very
arduous ﬁght, but mean to Win. Needless
to say, we should hardly have got that far
but for the inspiration of Commander Breck
and the A. S. T. L.”

The bill is drawn for the purpose of “Pro-
hibiting and penalizing the manufacture, pur-
chase, sale, possession, or custody Of the com—
mon steel trap, or any other mechanical
device calculated to catch rabbits or other
animals or birds in such a manner as to
inﬂict pain by gripping a limb or limbs.”

The Society and Captain Hume have the
' heartiest congratulations and good wishes
Of this League.

Volume 2 of the Annual Year Book pub—
lished by the University of London Animal
Welfare Society devotes Chapter 3 to “Traf-
ﬁc in Trapped Fur.” The A. S. T. L. is
widely quoted and its photos of trapped ani-
mals shown. Every humane organization
would be the richer for owning the volume.
It is ﬁlled with valuable references and may
be had for 5 shillings.

THE LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS in
England continues its ﬁne work against blood
sports and the brutal. practices Of traditional
sport. I. Steuart, Esq., writes in “Cruel
Sports,” “To render hunting illegal While
permitting ignorant people to kill the animal
in any cruel way they choose is obviously
unsatisfactory. All anti-hunting propaganda
should, therefore, be carried on in closest
conjunction with anti-steel—trap propaganda.
One without the other is useless.”

GERMANY UNDER HITLER forbids unneces-
sary torture or the cruel maltreatment of an
animal under penalty of a two-year jail sen-
tence.

CHINA READS A. S. T. L. LEAFLETS. At
the request of Dr. A. S. Millard, represent-
ing the University of London Animal Wel-
fare Society, the League has sent leaﬂets
for distribution by Dr. Millard in China.

those who defend the steel—trap.

THE FALLACY THAT NATURE IS CRUEL
and that the steel-trap is less cruel than the
death meted out to each other by wild ani-
mals is almost constantly on the tongues of
Says the
Year Book, Vol.2, The University Of Lon-
don Animal Welfare Society.

“. . in the great majority Of cases vio-

lent death is rapid and probably painless,

and the accusation of cruelty is irrelevant
anthropomorphismF—Sir J. A. Thomson,
discussing cruelty of Nature In The System

Of Animate Nature.

“The popular idea of the struggle for ex-
istence entailing misery and pain on the
, animal world is the reverse Of the truth.”

—Alfred Russell Wallace, l/Vorld of Life,

Who wrote Simultaneously with Darwin of

natural selection.

“When we reﬂect on the struggle (for

existence) we may console ourselves with
the full belief that the war of nature is
not incessant, that no fear is felt, that
death is generally. prompt, and the vigor-
ous, the healthy, and the happy survive

and multiply.”——Charles Darwin, Origin
7 of Species. .
THE AMERICAN TRAPPERS’ ASSOCIATION

has met the advance of the campaign against
cruel trapping in Canada with vituperation.
The Vancouver branch of the Canadian S.
P. C. A. has made Miss C. Van Steenwyk,
long a member Of the A. S. T. League, Chair-
man Of the Committee on Humane Trapping,
a new committee which has for its Objects,
ﬁrst, to promote the sale Of humanely trapped
fur; second, to explore the possibility of
ﬁnding a substitute for the steel-trap; third,
to promote co-operation between the S. P.
C. A. and naturalist and conservation so-
cieties in order to bring about legislation to
stop the Slaughter Of Canadian fur-bearers.
The press is largely favorable and women’s
organizations are getting into line as they
have done in England, Scotland, Ireland and
the United States.

THE PUBLICATION of “Blood Money for
the Audubon Association” by this League,
dealing with steel—trapping done by that
Association on its wild life Sanctuary in
Louisiana, brought us more than 75 new
members and more than $250.00. This ar-
ticle was reprinted in leaﬂet form by the
Emergency Conservation Committee, N. Y.

I

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ANTI-STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE NEWS " _ 9

Among the States

SENATOR DRYDEN KUSER re-introduced the
anti-steel-trap bill in N. J., in January, 1934.
The year before it met with Opposition but at
least received a fair number of votes in the
Senate. This year the bill came before an
unsympathetic Chairman of Committee and
was never reported out of Committee.
Nevertheless Senator Kuser is not daunted.
He stands ready to Offer the same measure
again when the time is propitious. It is
only fair to him that this League should
bring greater support than ever to his ef-
forts and this can be done best by forming
a Committee or Division of the League in
New Jersey. Although we sent out letters
to all members of the League in the State,
and others, to the number of nearly a thou-
sand and have every reason to believe that
most of those interested acceded to our re-
quest to make their desires known to their
legislators in Trenton, yet the bill failed.
N 0 such scattering support is formidable.
We must have united effort. The voters
of New Jersey can bring this about by form-
ing a strong organization in the State.

To 'HELP IN NEW JERSEY, Our League

sent 300 post cards, 386 letters to Audubon

Society members, 35 letters to the press
and 300 letters to women’s clubs. Letters
were also sent to all Legislators, the N. J.
Vivisection Investigation League and the
Hawk and Owl Society. Forty-ﬁve hu-
mane societies were asked to help the Anti—
Steel—T rap bill introduced by Senator
Kuser.

NORTH CAROLINA is restoring her fur-
bearers by prohibiting the use of the steel-
trap. Hundreds of Sportsmen, says the Win-
ston-Salem Journal, Aug. 3, 1934, and per-
sons interested in the restoration of wildlife
from a score of counties signed petitions
asking that steel-traps be prohibited. An
exception is made in the case of protecting
crops by allowing traps to be set in water
and along streams in cultivated areas.

Public hearings on the petitions to outlaw
the steel-trap were called by Mr. F. Piercy
Carter, attorney of Asheville and member
of the Board of Conservation and Develop-
ment, in compliance with the public laws.
Because of the cruelty and costly indis—
crimination of catching game animals in
traps, there is much interest in the move-
ment to pass laws outlawing their use, it
was pointed out.

IN WISCONSIN there is to be no legal
trapping in the National Forests. The Fed—
eral Forest Service does not control the ﬁsh
or game in the National Forests and it was
the Wisconsin Conservation Commission
which issued the order closing the National
Forests to trappers this year. These areas
were Opened to trapping of beavers last year
with much dissatisfaction to summer resi-
dents, resort owners, farmers and sports-
men. The beaver is considered in Wiscon-
sin to be an attraction to the State, and a
help to trout ﬁshing by damming streams
which would otherwise become dry in the
summer. The pools created by beaver dams
are, it is pointed out by E. W. Tinker,
regional forester, often the only source of
water for ﬁre ﬁghting.

MISS LUCY FURMAN, distinguished author,
social worker and vice-president of the
League, sponsored a humane trapping bill
in the Kentucky Legislature during the past
session. Fine support was given it by the
Louisville Courier-Journal, the Lexington
Herald and other papers. Fox hunter’s or-
ganizations and clubs of various kinds joined
us in the ﬁght. But Opposition was strong
in quarters where hostility is always in evi-
dence and the bill was lost by 8 votes.
Nothing, spells failure to this cause. We
shall offer the bill again two years from
now when the Legislature sits again, and,
with the added strength we have gained
through this campaign, we shall look for a
complete triumph.

THE KENTUCKY STATE D. A. R. passed
a resolution at its Spring meeting, May,
1934, demanding that the steel—trap be out-
lawed in Kentucky. The action came too
late to be recorded in the campaign of 1934
but will be of beneﬁt to the cause at the
next sitting of the Legislature when the
bill is again presented.

PENNSYLVANIA’S FIRST OPEN SEASON for
trapping beaver brought disastrous results.
From twenty pairs brought into the State
in 1913 the animals had multiplied to ap-
proximately 15,000 in 1934. An open season
from March 1 to April 10, 1934, saw about
one-third of the population slaughtered.
Trapping was restricted to six animals and
ten traps to each trapper. Traps having a
spread of more than six inches or furnished
with teeth were forbidden. The Bailey Live

 




ANTI—STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE NEWS

 

~‘Animal Trap was recommended by the Con-
servation Department. A repetition of so
great a kill will put the beaver back in the
category of the State’s extinct mammals,
.such as the bison, moose, wolf, wolverine,
lynx and pine marten.

GENERAL TRAPPING 0F BEAVER for a
period of ﬁfteen days took place in New
York State in 1934. Six beavers and ten
traps were the limits set. The New York
press reported that discussion was rife as to
the law requiring the use of traps without
teeth. The fact that the beaver is heavy
and strong “makes it necessary,” says the
Syracuse Post-Standard, “to use a proper
trap or lose the fur and permanently injure
old ‘trowel tail.’ ” The proper trap is, of
course, the Bailey Live Trap. Until a
humane trap is employed we can not claim
the minimum of reproach in reducing our
wild-life to transitory garments which have
seldom the excuse of necessity.

AN ERRONEOUS STATEMENT has been
made from the platform in California
to the club women that 70% of fur now
comes from fur farms. While there are no
available statistics to prove what percentage
:goes into the fur market from fur farms,
either in State or Federal reports, it is a
well known fact that the production of wild
fur far surpasses that which is farmed. In
any case, the fur coming from farms is sold
into the common maw of trapped fur and
becomes inextricably a part of trapped fur.
Except when a neckpiece is bought and made.
up to order, there is no safety for women
who shun the use of trapped fur, in buying
from the retail stores.

FIRST DISTRICT FEDERATED CLUBS OF IN-
DIANA passed a resolution against the use
of the steel-trap at their meeting in Evans-
ville during April, 1934.

 

IS THE STEEL-TRAP NECESSARY to protect
ground nesting birds by the effective de-
struction of foxes, raccoons, skunks, etc.,
even if it were true that these animals eat
birds’ eggs and kill the young to an un-
warranted extent? A summary of the con-
ditions in South Carolina where an anti-
steel—trap law has been in effect since 1927
is to be found in Fur-Fish-Game, June,
1933. .“This section of the country,” says
the writer, “has game such as foxes, deer,
coons, Opossums, rabbits, squirrels, doves,

quails and a few ducks, but we have no
trapping although we have plenty of animals
to trap. This state. has a law which forbids
setting steel-traps unless they are set within
100 yards of dwelling houses to catch ani-
mals that are molesting property. . . . Quail
are on the increase. Some of the counties
in the State have some of the best quail
shooting one could desire.”

LIGHT IN DARK PLACES. The Committee
on Bird Protection of the American Ornitho-
logical Union recommends, says the ' N.
Y. Times, April 8th, ’34, that natural
control be allowed to take place in our Na-
tional Parks—that the law of tooth and
talon be given free sway among wildlife.

“Every species,” it is urged, “should be
left to carry on the struggle for existence un-
aided as being to the greatest ultimate good,
unless there is real cause to believe it will
perish if unassisted. The rare predators
should be considered special charges of the
national parks in proportion as they are per—
secuted everywhere else. No native predator
shall be destroyed on account of its normal
attacks on any other park animal, excepting
if that animal is in immediate danger of ex-
tinction, and then only if the predator itself
is not a vanishing form.”

LETTER OF E. J. DAILEY, President,
American Trappers’ Association, in Pelt,
Sept, ’34, says, “I wish to draw your atten-
tion to a movement . . . by rich fox and
’coon hunters’ organizations that would pro-
hibit trapping of these animals . The
wildlife of the Nation or State belongs to
all the people and should not be given, by
legislation, to the privileged few and it is
up to you as a citizen, an individual and a
trapper to see that such inimical laws are
kept from our status. . . . And you should
keep an eye on the .Anti-Steel—Trap League,
an organization that would deprive you of
the only practical instrument for harvesting
the fur crop. These people make efforts in
certain States to abolish all practical traps
and you must protest any measure they
Sponsor, regardless how harmless it may
seem at ﬁrst glance. . . .”

HUMANE WEEK gave Miss Lucy Furman
an Opportunity to speak over the radio from
Louisville where she was given the courtesy
of making her address from the station of
the Louisville C ourier-J oumal.

 

... ___,__... AM...“

 




 

ANTI-STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE NEWS 11

 

The Trap Line

“I belong to the Brotherhood of Toe
Pinchers and can truthfully say that I am
not in the game merely for the dollars and
cents. When it is all summed up I derive
many a pleasant hour along with excellent
health and ,a powerful big appetite.”

“During the winter session of the Legis-
lature of New Jersey, 1933—34, a bill was
passed that allows only water trapping of
animals, excepting when the No. I trap is
used and enclosed within a tunnel not more
than six inches in diameter, or traps of any
size may be used on meadows inhabited by
muskrats. . . . There was even a more dras-
tic bill up for action and sponsored by the
Anti-Steel-Trap League that would prohibit
the sale or use of any steel trap within the
State. . .4 . Surely such laws as this ought to
serve as a warning in other States. . . .”

“At a ledge a couple of good old faithful
Victors were doing duty . . one of them
held a large raccoon growling and full of
ﬁght. A 25 caliber automatic . . . put him
to sleep quick. . . .” “As I came up to the
next set I saw trap, drag and all gone and a
few,feet away . . . I located a large striped
skunk busily digging and circling around as
far as the trap chain would allow him to go.

A 25 steel packet slug . . . soon put him out
of commission. . . .” “This set held a strug-
gling black (musk) rat. . . .” “I pulled the

mink out . . . where I could get a good crack
at him. A sharp crack on its nose stunned
him and with my boot I held him under wa-
ter until it drowned. . . .” “Many a sly old
red fox had its toes pinched by my ‘toe
pinchers’ during the winter months. . . .”
Fur—Fish—Game, August, ’34.

December lst, the opening day of the ’rat
season, and what a shame to' catch unprime
and undersized muskrats. But “hold on!”
There does a whole army of “rat terriers”
heading for that creek across the meadow
and it looks as though, if I wanted my share
of the ’rats, I would have to “step on the
gas,”—so to speak. Donning my 'boots and
gathering up my light artillery I joined
the “army.” The next morning brought me
two muskrats and two feet.

I did not go back to the sets for two
nights, (1) then one evening I . . . paddled

 

down to my traps. The ﬁrst half dozen of;
them failed to produce anything but a couple
of muskrat toes and a set of whiskers. . . .
Encouraged . . . I decided to visit my traps
every morning. . . . Instead of a muskrat
there was a big black mink incarcerated.
He had practically masticated everything he
could get his teeth on, and it was a wonder
he didn’t pull free. . .”—Fm*-Fish-Game,
June, ’33.

“Yes, the State of _ N. Y. says, ‘Kill all
the fox that you can,’ the State says that:
the fox is to blame for the downfall of the
partridge.” BUNK! I have been places
where fox were plentiful, and partridges
were also plentiful; that is at different
times. What causes this increase and de-x
crease? The fox? No, a hundred times,
NO. Nothing but twelve, sixteen and twena
ty gauges and too long open seasons, as a
rule. There are too many hunters and
game hogs for the supply of game. . . . I
have been in a few sections where there
were but very few fox. Was game plenti-
ful there? No. Just like the fox, they have
been trapped and killed off. Too many
hunters are hard on the supply of game.
. . I wish to remind the old readers of
Fur—Fish-Game of an article on the fox by
E. I. Dailey (President American Trappers
Association), August, 1927, issue, which
says: ‘Very few men know the habits of
the fox in the wild. We have numerous
hunters and trappers who know how to kill
them, or capture them; but during the long

 




 

12 ANTI-STEEL—TRAP LEAGUE NEWS

summer when the fox is supposed to com—
mit the terrible depredations commonly
mentioned by fake-naturalists and other un-
informed persons, I think I am safe in stat-
ing that not ten persons in America really
know the inside life of a fox in the wild.’ ”
Fur-Fish-Game, Dec., ’29.

Trapping Tricks. As I said I was begin-
ning to lose faith in this particular set . . .
and I was going to pull up my trap . . .
when on nearing the set I was attracted by a
lot of scratching and the rattle. of the trap
and chain. I ﬁgured to myself that I have
“Old Reynard” on this trip at last. Getting
closer to a trap I saw that instead of a fox
I had a big coon, and the way he made his
hair stand up made me think he was as big
as a cow. Bracing his hind feet against the
ground he would pull with all his might
until I thought his front foot, which was in
the trap, would come off. All the while he
was growling like it was nobody’s business,
but when he saw me the capers he cut up
before were mild to what he did now, so I
quickly ended his anger with a pill from the
.22 I carry along on the trap liner—Far-
Fish—Game, Dec., ’29.

PETS AND BIRDS are a sad toll of traps.
A large police dog who appeared to be
afraid of people evaded‘ capture for two
days. Brought ﬁnally to the hospital a
large steel trap about a foot long was re-
moved from the dog’s paw after it had dug
deeply into the ﬂesh.
Oct. 17, ’34.

“He didn’t mean to hurt me. He was
hurt himself and didn’t know,” said a small
boy of his pet dog who, in a frenzy of pain

Springﬁeld Union, >

injured his young master. The dog was
found by the boy in a steel-trap. Rochester
Times-Union, N 07/. 28, ’33.

A pet cat was mangled so badly in a
steel-trap in the rear of its owner’s home
that it had to be shot. Gardner, Mass,
News, Oct. 15, ’34.

Cries of a police puppy caught in a steel—
trap . . . rent the air last night. By the
aid of a ﬂashlight the puppy was found ly—
ing on the ground exhausted after struggling
hours to free itself. Utica Observer Dis-
patch, Oct. 17, ’34.

More than a dozen traps and snares for
pheasants were discovered by police in
Buffalo. It was estimated that more than
50 game birds had been caught in this man—
ner by poachers. A small dog led to the
discovery of the traps. His owners found
him yelping and crying having been caught
in one of the traps himself. Baﬁ‘alo News,
Nov. 27, ’33.

THE THEOSOPHICAL ORDER OF SERVICE,
Animal Welfare Department, has offered us
a book of sample fur fabrics. This may be
se‘en at the ofﬁce of the League in Washing-
ton. Mr. Robert Logan, Head Brother of
the Order, Eddington, Penna, has made an
effort to keep a supply of fabric large enough
to ﬁll orders at little more than the whole-
sale price. This is not a business of the
Order but a kindness to those who ﬁnd it
difﬁcult to buy fur fabric by the yard. Gar-
ments of the material which are to be found
in shops are usually trimmed with fur and
are, therefore, not acceptable to those who
abstain. from wearing trapped furs. '

 

 

 

 

HUMANE TRAPS.
HUMANE FURS.
VERMIN CONTROL.

League.

-S-T League.

 

League Publications

Which will be sent free as long as the supply lasts, except for postage,
include the following: '

ANTI-STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE NEWS, February, ’31 to December, ’32.

THE STEEL-TRAP, A MANUAL OF INFORMATION.

THE STEEL-TRAP, MODERN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE, Radio Address.
THE STEEL-TRAP, MENACE TO CONSERVATION.

BLOOD MONEY FOR THE AUDUBON ASSOCIATION.
VIOLATED SANCTUARY, Answer to Audubon Association’s Investigator.
SHALL THE STEEL-TRAP BE OUTLAW’ED, by Henry Carey, late Vice-President A-S—T

THE PRICE OF FURS, A PLEA FOR HUMANE TRAPPING, Lucy Furman, Vice-President,
OUR DISAPPEARING FUR BEARERS, Edward A. Preble, U. S. Biological Survey.

ARGUMENTS FOR PASSAGE OF ANTI-STEEL-TRAP LAWS.
WHY THE LEAGUE, one-page leaﬂet, thh photographs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




