A REPLY
TO AN ARTICLE BY REV. L. WALLACE,

IN THE

WESTMINSTER REVIEW, MARCH, 1892.

 

 

No truer words have been written on this distressful
subject than those of the Rev. Lionel Wallace in the March
number of this Review. “ Vivisection is something more than
a scientiﬁc question. It cannot be regarded in the same way
as the study of electricity or chemistry. These and other
sciences can be considered apart from any emotional or
personal feeling, but Vivisection comes decidedly into conﬂict
with a strong moral sense.”

After this just statement of the case, nevertheless Mr.
Wallace straightway proceeds to discuss it, (primarily at all
events,) as if it were simply a scientiﬁc question and the ﬁrst
thing to be considered were: How far has it proved a
successful method of research in the interest of the Healing
Art? Of its aspect from the point of View of foreign
physiologists in general ;~—-namely, as carried on for purely
scientiﬁc purposes without the English “ hypocrisy” of pre-
tending to seek remedies for disease,——Mr. Wallace says
nothing and evidently knows less than those whose duty has
compelled them to read ' the voluminous Treatises and
“ archives,” wherein the genuine sentiments of the great
French, German and Italian Vivisectors become transparent.
He cites many discoveries, however, which he conceives to
be the therapeutic triumphs of Vivisection ; and with these my
friend Dr. Berdoe will presently deal, while I shall- endeavour
to the best of my humble ability, to criticise Mr. Wallace’s
remarks on the moral side of the question.

Mr. Wallace candidly admits :—

“ That shocking atrocities have been committed in the name of
Vivisection, few physiologists will seek to deny. From motives of
morbid curiosity, animals have been put to extreme and lengthened

 




 

2

torture, and no words can be strong enough to condemn such
practices. The assertion that the mind requires nourishment as
well as the body cannot in the least palliate or excuse such conduct.
But it is obviously unfair to argue or imply that because certain
immoral acts take place under a system, the whole system is there-
fore immoral. Such an argument, if universally forced to its
legitimate conclusion, would leave no system untouched. By this
reasoning, all novels would be suppressed because some are
unedifying; theatres should be closed because plays of a vicious
tendency are placed on the boards of a few. Christianity itself
would not escape, for acts the most immoral have been, and are
being done in the name and under the authority of that religion ”
(p. 257). The fact of one or a hundred physiologists experimenting
through curiosity, or from an entirely selﬁsh love of knowledge,
does not render vivisection immoral if it can be shown that the
science in general tends to good ” (p. 258).

This is a somewhat novel statement of the case for
vivisection. Hitherto it has been either denied that atrocities
have been committed ; or the anaesthetic dust has been
thrown in our eyes to blind us to them; or we have been
called on to contemplate all the other cruelties in the
universe and to let vivisection pass unchallenged in the
bewildering crowd. But Mr. Wallace,—-—all honour to him,—--
honestly admits the atrocities; only he thinks that they
may be condoned for the sake of the general good tendency
of the practice. There are ﬂaws, he thinks, in everything, in
novels, in theatricals, in butchery and in Christianity itself. But
as we do not wish to prohibit and abolish novels, theatres,
shambles and Christianity, why should we desire to prohibit
Vivisection because of the atrocities connected therewith ‘2

The answer to this argument is simple. Because those
atrocities, in the case of vivisection, are practically
inseparable from the thing itself, and are great enough to
outweigh its alleged advantages ten times over. If butchery
necessarily involved “extreme and prolonged torture,” or
if novels and theatres were necessarily corrupting; or if
Christianity were fairly represented by the Inquisition,—
then we should eat no meat while the world endureth, and
labour with all our might to abolish novels, theatres and
Christianity. Apparently, Mr. Wallace does not even
entertain any delusion as to the separability of atrocities
from vivisection. He swallows them whole; nor does he
desire to establish any safeguard against these, but denounces
“ hampering” the practice by “ petty and irritating restric-
tions ” as a “crime against humanity.”

We thus come face to face quite plainly with what might
be taken for a reductio ad absurdum of Utilitarian philosophy.
Acts confessedly “ atrocious,” and, “in conﬂict with a
strong moral sense,” are not to be even hampered by legal

 




 

 

restrictions, since they are supposed to “tend to geod—
13.6., we must presume to “the greatest Happiness of the
greatest number.” Viewing this philosophy as radically
unsound (since it cannot tell me why I ought to sacriﬁce
my smallest pleasure for the salvation of the human race
without falling back on principles rooted on higher ground
than Happiness, and since I hold that actions are Expedient
because they are Right, not Right because they are
Expedient), I must refuse to concede to Mr. Wallace that
the moral lawfulness of Vivisection (atrocities included) can
be, under any circumstances, settled by the measure of
“ good ”——.—7Z.e., of useful discoveries, which it may, or may
not, have effected. Nevertheless, even on utilitarian prin-
ciples, such as my honoured friend John Stuart Mill upheld,
the interests of the community must always be estimated on
data including other and higher elements than physical
health or ﬁnancial prosperity. They must include before all
other things the interests of the hearts and consciences
of men, and the cultivation of that “ strong moral sense ”
with which Mr. Wallace admits that vivisection “comes
into conﬂict.” That a generation reared to approve of
vivisection,—to read daily of agonising experiments without
blenching, and to receive its instruction in schools and
colleges from men who exemplify more or less Bernard’s
and Cyon’s ideal vivisector,——“blind to blood and pain ”
and “ approaching a diﬂicult vivisection with joyful ardour,”
——would be a harder, more selﬁsh, more savage generation
than any which Christendom has seen, is, I think, sufﬁ-
ciently certain. That it would be a happier one than ours,
even supposing Mr. Wallace’s wildest dreams of ﬁnding
cures for consumption, scrofula and cancer had been
realized, is more than doubtful.

But if we turn to a nobler school of ethics, from Depen-
dent to Independent Morality, how does the case stand?
Mr. Wallace concedes that “vivisection comes directly into
conﬂict with a strong moral sense; ” though in the next
sentence he tries to abate the force of this avowal by saying
that it “ appears to come into collision with a moral sense ”,—
as if, for example, one should say, that sour grapes appeared
to offend the palate, and assafoetida the nose, but that there
might be room to suppose the senses in error! Assuming
that vivisection does really “ come into conﬂict with a strong
moral sense,” let me ask why this practice alone of those
which create the same conﬂict is to be justiﬁed on the plea
of “tending on the whole to good”? Would any man of
ordinary moral reputation, not to speak of a clergyman of

 

 




 

 

4

the Church of England, think of defending any of the other
things which come into conﬂict with the moral sense,
6.9., Wars for sake of rapine, Polygamy and other sexual
sins, Slavery, and Spartan infanticide, on the ground that
, those practices appear (with a certain manipulation of facts)
to “tend on the whole to good,”—i.e., the sanitary or
ﬁnancial good,-——of the community ? Why then, are we all
to refuse off hand tobalance the pros and cons of such
practices, and yet pause and listen to the voice of the
medical charmer, charming us with details (more or less
mythical) of the beneﬁts derivable from cruel experiments
on animals ‘2

The reason, I think, exposes the root of this controversy.
Men, even many of our appointed pastors and masters, have
not yet included within the scope of their moral purview the
relations of the human race to the lower animals. The
Church Congress will, I understand, for the ﬁrst time discuss
the subject next autumn; and happily with the masterly
intellect of Bishop Barry to lead the way. But hitherto, as
Mr. Lecky remarks: “ In the range and circle of duties
inculcated by the early Fathers, those to animals had no
place. The traces of this form of humanity which appear
in the Old Testament, gave way before an ardent philan-
thropy which regarded human interests as the one end, and
the relations of man to his Creator as the one question of
life and dismissed somewhat contemptuously as an idle
sentimentalism notions of duty to animals.”—(History of
European Morals, vol. 2, p. 178). The same attitude has
been in the main preserved by the churches till the
present time and the vivisectors themselves and their
advocates are only half a century behind the age since
Martin’s Act was received with derision even by such a light
of his times as Sidney Smith. It is only because few minds
have yet assimilated (even if they have perforce swallowed)
the modern idea of the rights of animals, that it is possible for
any public teacher to come forward, as Mr. Wallace has done,
and in one and the same article pronounce a practice to be
“ in conﬂict with strong moral sense,” and then proceed to
argue that it is nevertheless justiﬁable, because so much good
has come, or may be expected to come, of it. Once we
thoroughly grasp the truth that animals have Rights, such a
line of argument must be perceived to be as monstrous as
one in favour of murdering diseased children for the relief of
the poor-rate and the improvement of the health of the next
generation. Nothing can be plainer in ethics than that if
animals have any rights at all, those rights must include

 




 

 

5

imnnmity from torture, 73.6., from the very worst we can do
to them. This is the minimum of conceivable rights; and

that they possess rights has been conceded by our laws for

half-a-century, and vindicated by the punishment of about
ﬁve thousand rufﬁans a year for cruelty towards them. As

.Jeremy Bentham taught “the time will come ”—(it has come

since his day)——‘ ‘ when the question will not be asked, ‘ Can the

creature reason ? ’ but ‘ Can it feel ‘2 ’ It is not on the number
of legs or on the villosity of the skin that the right to be
exempted from torture is grounded” ; but on the single fact

.of semiency, of the liability to suffer when subjected thereto.
Mr. Wallace is angry with us because we have “laid down

:as an axiom that the torture of sentient creatures is a sin,

While omitting any qualiﬁcation as to the method or reason

of what we call torture.” For my part, I confess, that if

the torture of sentient creatures be not a sin,—-as Lord
'Shaftesbury called it an “ abominable sin,”——I am entirely

.at a loss to know what is a Sin, in the black catalogue of
human wrong-doing. As for the “qualiﬁcation” which

Mr. Wallace would have us make, “as to the method

-or reason of what we call torture,” all I can see is that the

“method” of vivisectional torture is the cowardly and odious

(one of fastening the helpless Victim to be dissected alive on a

table and perhaps curarizing it into the bargain; and the

"‘ reason” for the horrid “ chamber sport ” is, that the vivi-
sector hopes to cut his way to knowledge and notoriety
through the tissues and entrails of the unhappy brute. I

fail altogether to see what elf-set such “ methods ” and
“reasons” afford for demurring to “the axiom that the
torture of sentient creatures is a sin.”

Mr. Wallace has yet other counts in his indictment against
us, unmannerly Anti-vivisectionists. We “ prefer to attack
individuals, or individuals’ acts, rather than principles.” I
should like to ask : What would have been said of us had we
produced no facts, no “individual” vivisectors, no “individual
acts ” of vivisection, on which to base our denunciations of

the practice ‘2 As a matter of fact we have been as little
personal in our attacks as was compatible with making good

our ground of contention ; and (speaking for myself) I cannot
plead guilty to any failure to attack “principles.” I have. done
so whenever, as in the present case, it has seemed possible
to grasp anything like one amid the ever shifting and elusive
"excuses for vivisection ; albeit the result has generally
resembled the consequences of catching a soap-bubble.
Mr. Wallace says we “ argue from the particular to the

general,” and select some case or cases in which extreme

 

 




 

 

 

6

cruelty has been displayed, and ask how a science carried on
by the practice of such barbarities can be tolerated? Has-
any other method than this of “selecting a case or cases
whereby extreme cruelty has been displayed,” been ever
practiced,—I should like to ask,——by the advocates of '
an oppressed class, race or sex, who have called
public attention to the wrongs which they desired to
see redressed? If Mr. Wallace think our basis of cases --
too “particular” to found on it the “ general” con-
clusion that vivisection is a cruel and morally condemn--
able practice, I beg to tell him that a book is now in an
advanced stage of preparation compiled at my direction for
the purpose of exhibiting by examples the almost incredible
variety, multiplicity, and “ atrocity ” of vivisection, as practised
all over Europe and America.* If these cases do not form a
sufﬁciently broad ground for treating the modern practice of
vivisection as the development of a NEW VICE of Scientiﬁc
Cruelty, and putting a stop to its extension with all possible
celerity, I am unable to conceive what exposures would
have sufﬁced in his opinion to justify the efforts to put an
end,———say, to Cruelty to Children, to the maltreatment of
Lunatics, or to Negro slavery ‘2

Lastly, Mr. Wallace is much disturbed because we are
“ too prone to select the worst instances ” of vivisection, and
do not notice all the soothing things which the Inspector has
said, year after year (some of which, ﬁve or six years old,
Mr. Wallace quotes), concerning the large share in the
annual Returns of experiments which belongs to the class of
inoculations. “ The science includes ” (we are hidden to re-
member) “not only the cutting-up and laying Open of
animals, but also the cultivation of disease germs by inocu-
lation. Any estimate of vivisection to be fair must take
into account the whole ﬁeld.” Quite true. And it is these
very inoculations which the Inspector and scores of advo-
cates of vivisection have dared to describe as “only the
prick of a needle,” which excite in us perhaps more indig-
nation than half the manglings and burnings. The cats
whose eyes have been turned into putrid ulcers that Dr.
Klein might watch comfortably through the transparent
substance the eifects of his injections of diseased matter—(for
which and the like doings the nation has been paying him
at the rate of £670 a year), the “innumerable” dogs into
whose brains Pasteur has squirted the virus of rabies,
causing them to perish in long—drawn agonies exceeding even

 

3* The Nine Circles. Sonnenschein & 00., London. Price Is.




WWI"
A

'7

those of the natural disease—these are samples of Vivisection
which we have no sort of desire to omit in our denunciation
of the practice. It has been to hinder, if possible, the repeti-
tion of them in England in the proposed Institute of Preventive
Medicine, that we lately sent up our Memorial to the Home
Ofﬁce, signed by 51,000 persons, including 26 peers and
14 bishops of Mr. Wallace’s church, Cardinal Manning,
Mr. Froude, Dr. James Martineau, Mr. Freeman, Mr. Ruskin
and Lord Tennyson.

I now leave the scientiﬁc part of Mr. Wallace’s article
to be examined by Dr. Berdoe, who will, I believe,
convince the reader easily that the reverend defender of
vivisection has somewhat erred in his estimate of the practice
as having “ given relief to 7izillz'ons (I) of men and beasts.” I
leave it the more readily because I do not blush to own that
I am one of those who Mr. Wallace scorns for saying “ I
refuse to entertain the question whether the beneﬁts of
vivisection, be they great or be they small, make the practice
Right.” He says that “the humanity of one who could
write such words is Open to serious doubt.” It is, I think;
just as much open to doubt as that of one who should say
that he “ refused to entertain the question whether the»
beneﬁts of Dishonesty,——of Lying,——of Sexual Vice,—of unjust
War,—of Slavery or Infanticide,—be they great or be they
small, make any such practice Right.” Either every vice and
crime is to be justiﬁed by utility,——or Cruelty to Animals must.
be included in the list of things which no utility can justify.

FRANCES POWER COBBE.

Mr. Wallace says that the great advance made by surgery
and medicine in modern times is due “ mainly to vivisection."
“ It may seem a bold answer,” he adds, “ but the corro-
borative testimony is copious and reliable.” Fortunately for
those whom he opposes,he gives a number of instances in
proof of his claim which he confesses may seem rather a
“ bold ” one. I will examine them in detail. “ By carefully
conducted amputations performed on dogs, the best methods of

tying the great vessels and preventing excessive haemorrhage

were founc.” As the arteries of the lower animals are
believed by surgeons to be subject to the same diseases
as those of human beings, the ligation of the arteries
of dogs would be a fallacious method of studying the

 

 




 

8

ligation of those of men, and, as a fact, the operation
in question was not discovered either by the men or by
the methods Speciﬁed by Mr. Wallace. The double ligation
of. blood vessels and division of the vessels between the
ligatures, as practised now-a-days, was described by Celsus
(B.C. 25-80 and A.D. 45-50). Archigenes of Apamaea
(A.D. 48-117) also described ligatures, and ZEtius in the sixth
century, actually mentions the valuable method of torsion of
bleeding arteries, just as practised at every hospital to-day.
Jean Louis Petit is the ﬁrst person on the list of those to
whom Mr. Wallace attributes the discovery of tying the great
vessels to avert haemorrhage. The Operation was 1,700
years old when Petit was born. War and the common acci-
dents of daily life taught men the art of surgery, and
primitive folk in all parts of the world have exhibited
Wonderful skill in this direction. The ancient Hindoos were
familiar with the use of scalpels, forceps, speculae, saws,
needles, moxas, and the actual cautery. They had instru-
ments adapted to the requirements of every operation.
“ Operative Surgery,” say Dr. Hermann Baas (History of
Medicine, p. 45), “attained such a position among the
Indians that they did not shrink from the greatest and most
difﬁcult operation.” But savages frequently perform the
most tremendous operations, and these with only a ﬂint knife
and a bone needle with tendons for thread. Mr. Wallace
must begin his history of surgery before the days of Jean
Louis Petit. Incidentally, we gather that he believes in the
myth of the discovery of chloroform anaesthesia b) experi-
ments on animals. As a fact, Sir James Simpson blessed
humanity with his great discovery by experimenting on
himself. He afterwards tested it on his friend Dr. Keith and
Matthews Duncan. No experiments on any other animal
than man ever had anything to do With the discovery of chloro-
form anaesthesia.

Mr. Wallace next instances the use of digitalis in heart
disease, as due to the teachings of Vivisection. But, says
'Dr. Stillé, “Long before its. mode of action had been
experimentally investigated, it was established as the most
efﬁcient remedy for dropsy depending upon disease of the
heart.” Experimenters are much at variance as to its real
physiological action. Carbolic acid so frequently causes
blood-poisoning (which Mr. Wallace says it prevents) that
Professor Lister has not only given up its use but has
expressed regret that he ever employed it.

The inﬂuence of strychnia in increasing the pace of the
respiratory movements was known clinically before

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9

Rokitansky made his experiments with the drug upon
animals. We had, and used, the medicine before he learned
by experiment how it was supposed to act on the organism.
(b’ti'g/e/mia. as an Expeet07'ant, by Dr. Milner Fothergill.
Transactions of the International [Wedded], Congress, 1881,
Vol. 1, p. 451.)

The Bible tells us (and quacks never tire of quoting
the text) that “the blood is the life.” The fables
concerning the discovery of the circulation of the blood
by Harvey are the life of the arguments used by the
advocates of Vivisection. Harvey emphatically declares
in his famous book that when he ﬁrst gave his mind
to vivisections as a means of discovering the motions and uses
of the heart, he was so bewildered and confused by what he
saw that he did not know what to believe. (Chap. 1.)
As afact, he was led to his discovery by the study of the
position of the valves in the veins in the dead body. As
Harvey had abundant opportunities for watching Operations
on the human subject, there was no necessity, except for
purposes of demonstration, to use living animals at all.

It is amazing that advocates of vivisection can go on
repeating the exploded story about Sir Charles Bell’s
discoveries respecting the power and functions of the nervous
system. Mr. Wallace, with even greater boldness than he
probably gave himself credit for, sets all this down to Vivi-
section. But Sir Charles Bell’s experiments on animals
were only undertaken subsequently to his discovery, and
were performed simply to satisfy the objections of some.
sceptical Opponents. Bell’s discovery was the result of a
masterly power of reasoning; and we have his own words
to prove that experiments on animals had nothing to do
with it. He says: “ In a foreign review of my paper, the
results have been considered as in ﬁzz-om“ of experimenting
on living animals—they are, on the contrary, deductions
from anatomy, and I have had recourse to experiments, not
to form my opinions, but to impress them upon others.”*

But the weakest point in Mr. Wallace’s argument, so far
as it rests on the advance of medicine, is the astonishing
assertion that in consequence of experiments on the nervous
system of animals, the treatment of neuralgia, colds,

 

* Nervous System, p. 217. Bell goes on to say: “For my own
part, I cannot believe that Providence should intend that the
secrets of nature are to be discovered by means of cruelty.”
Apparently, Mr. W'allaoe ﬁnds no such difﬁculty in believing that
monstrous hypothesis.

 

 




 

 

10

inﬂuenza, sea-sickness, and other complaints which he does
not specify, which was formerly haphazard and empirical, is
now “ scientiﬁc and methodical.” The readers of this part
of Mr. Wallace’s article, who will be most surprised by
it, will be the doctors, for he has put his ﬁnger on the weakest
points of our art. Practically it is in cases of colds, inﬂuenza,
sea-sickness and neuralgia that we are the most helpless.
None of us have improved on the foot-bath-and-basin-of—hot-
gruel treatment for a cold; not one of us who is a bad sailor
would put his trust in any remedy against sea-sickness save
the precautions which any sailor would suggest, and, as for
inﬂuenza, let the death-rate of the civilised world for the past
siX months answer Mr Wallace. Evidently he has been led
away by the enthusiasm of some young practitioner of the
hyper-scientiﬁc school. We elder ones, when we meet each
other, say, with Socrates, “ I know nothing! what do you
know ‘2 ” about curing colds and sea-sickness ” ‘2

And it is not very probable that experiments with drugs
upon animals will ever help us very much, because no
greater mistake could be made than to suppose that the
physiological action of a remedy as demonstrated by experi-
ment is always its therapeutic action. If we had abstained
from the use of quinine until the physiologists had decided
how it acted upon the organism, we should have been
deprived of one of the most valuable weapons in our medical
armoury to this day. Savages taught us the uses of
Cinchona bark in fevers, and most of our valuable medicines
have reached us from similar sources. Experience and
clinical observation have done almost everything for the art
of medicine; the experimental physiologists make great claims,
but they have done little or nothing to substantiate them.

EDWARD BERDOE, M.R.C.S.

 

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION
OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION,
20, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. 4.92

 




 

 

J UST P UBLISHED.

THE NINE CIRCLES

OF THE HELL OF THE INNOOENT.

DESCRIBED FROM THE REPORTS OF THE PRESIDING SPIRITS.

Compiled by
G. R H 0 D E S .

Wit/z Preface by
FRA NOES PO IVER CUBBE.

 

LONDON :
SWAN SONNENSOHEIN & CO., PATERNOSTER SQUARE.
1892.

Price One Shilling.

 




 




