HUMANE DESTRUCTION of RATS and MICE

By MAJOR c. w. HUME, M.c., B.Sc.

 

 

Psychological considerations.

The importance of destroying rats and mice is well known and need
not be emphasized here. Unfortunately, on the other hand, little attention is
usually paid to the importance of using humane methods, and the object of
this leaﬂet is to give some hints in that direction.

Many who would be horriﬁed by cruelty to domestic animals appear to
be either cruel or callous in their attitude towards animal pests. There are
probably two reasons for this peculiar behaviour. In the ﬁrst place neuroses
connected with such animals are quite common; a woman who screams when
she sees a mouse is obviously suffering in this way, but similar neuroses prob-
ably exist in less obvious forms in men as well as in women. It has been
shown experimentally that they can be both induced and cured by suitable

conditioning. They are, of course, mental lesions like insanity, though less
severe.

In the second place, the minds of the majority of men and women
ordinarily work in much the same way as those of animals, reacting as a whole
to the situation as a whole without analysis. The study of logic has little
popular appeal, and thought is, as a rule, so inextricably mixed up with feeling,
habit, instinct and unconscious cerebration that the mental processes of a good
many human beings hardly deserve to be called “thinking” at all. One result
is that few are capable of distinguishing between the destruction of animal
pests for economic reasons on one hand, and the venting of personal spite and
animosity on the other. This confusion of thought is expressed when rats and
mice are referred to as “ enemies of mankind ”; the fact that we have to take
repressive action against them engenders hatred and spite towards them in the
popular mind, and this is rationalized into the absurd belief that these creatures
are intentionally hostile to our species. It is a matter of some urgency to
eliminate this fallacy by improved education. When that is done rodents will
be seen to be lovable though harmful animals.

Bibliography.

Valuable technical information will be found in a pamphlet entitled
Rat Control on Farms, an advisory leaﬂet (No.49) on The Destruction of
Rats and Mice, and bulletin No. 30, Rats and How to Exterminate Them,
all published by the Ministry of Agriculture; and in a pamphlet, The Exter-
mination of Rats and Mice, published by the Ministry of Food. The object
of the present leaﬂet is to emphasize humane considerations which, unfortun-
ately, have not been sufﬁciently noticed in these ofﬁcial instructions.

Rat-proofing.

The most important action against rats consists in eliminating the
breeding-places, preventing access to buildings, and keeping food and water
out of the reach of the animals.

 




 

Holes in walls and ﬂoors (e.g. where pipes enter) should be repaired or
blocked with cement, broken gratin—gs should be covered with half-inch. wire
mesh, rick's, barns and fowl-houses should, when possible, be raised on rat-proof
pillars or straddles. Hawsers connecting ships with shore should have rat-proof
plates or cones.

Waste food, if not fed to pigs, should be incinerated, and rubbish-dumps
should be run on the controlled-tipping system. Lumber heaps and other
nesting sites should be tidied away.

Dripping taps should be rewashered. Food should be'kept in tins or
other ungnawable containers.

In rural districts, rats and some mice tend to migrate to the ﬁelds in
the summer and return to buildings in the winter.

Fumigation.

The most effective fumigant is Cymag, supplied by Plant Protection
Ltd., who provide full instructions for use. It is applicable in banks, hedge-
rows and any. other places where rats live in holes; for instance, in refuse
dumps when the soil and the rubble have become well compacted. As to its
efﬁciency in hay ricks the evidence is not at present conclusive either way.
Although out of doors it can safely be used by responsible persons who take
reasonable precautions, it is dangerous if used indoors by untrained personnel,
as thegas is highly poisonous to human beings. Its danger has, however, been
exaggerated for controversial purposes, and out of doors in responsible hands
it is neither more nor less dangerous than a loaded gun. Cyanogas and Calcid,
which resemble Cymag in their effects, have been unobtainable since the out-
break of war.

Carbon monoxide, or motor-car exhaust gas, is asafe and effective fumi-
gant. The engine should be run on a rich mixture and the exhaust gases should
be conveyed into the rat-holes by means of a hose pipe for 15 minutes or more.
(Carbon dioxide is sometimes used but kills by suffocation, without anaesthesia).

Fumigation with Cymag or carbOn monoxide is humane, since partially
gassed animals will make a complete recovery in a short time. Sulphur fumi-
gcmts, on the other hand, are not recommended, and animals partially gassed
with them die a lingering and painful death.

Poison,

The usual method of destroying rats is by poison, and the majority of
rat poisons are excessively inhumane. Red squill produces severe convulsions
and takes a long time to kill (often four or six days in laboratory rats under low
dosage), the animal exhibiting symptoms of consciousness when tested during
this period. Supplies of red squill are of unreliable potency, and although the
poison is non-toxic to poultry and cats it is toxic to pigs and dogs. Phosphorus
baits produce painful and prolonged symptoms, and phosphorus is believed to
have the further disadvantage of setting up prejudice against zinc phosphide,
although this conclusion has not been fully authenticated by ﬁeld tests. Barium
carbonate takes a very long time to kill, is inefﬁcient, and is said to cause
extreme suffering. This and phosphorus are the poisons ordinarily used in
baits sold in shops.

The least inhumane poison at present available appears to be zinc phos-
phide. A full meal of zinc-phosphide bait is followed by symptoms after an




interval of 15 or 20 minutes, and death usually follows after an hour or two. A
rat has been known to die in. 20 minutes, while others have survived till next
day. The animal is comparatively quiet except for a short period of convulsions
just preceding death; whether it is still conscious at this time is not known.

Pre-baiting is of the utmost importance. It consists in putting down
unpoisoned bait on at least two occasions (preferably on successive days, but
failing that on alternate days) before similar baits embodying poison are laid.
By this means animals are encouraged to take a full meal; efﬁciency is increased
and the percentage which suffer prolonged symptoms from an underdose is
reduced.

The bait should be ﬁnely granulated so that it cannot be carried away;
the baits ofﬁcially recommended are sugar meal (flour with 10 per cent by
weight of castor sugar) and sausage rusk moistened with an equal weight of
water. It is often desirable to use bait boxes which are specially constructed
to ensure that the poisoned bait shall not be scattered where domestic animals
can reach it.

Pending the development of a humane poison the following advice must
be given; employ ofﬁcial rodent operatives and insist on their using zinc phos-
phide after adequate pre-baiting; never use rat poison bought from a shop.

It may be mentioned that UFAW is ﬁnancing a research scholarship in
the University of Wales for purposes which include the development of a
humane poison.

Prejudice is the name technically given to the tendency of rodents to
avoid any food which has caused them injury in the past. It is overcome by
(1) systematic pre-baiting, (2) changing from pre-baits to poisoned baits simul-
taneously throughout the area of operations and (3) changing the bait (e.g. from
sugar meal to sausage rusk) for a second campaign.

Viruses are produced by infecting large numbers of animals with a dis-
tressing disease in the factory. The viruses sold in the shops claim to kill rats
wholesale as a result of mutual infection. Actually this method is extremely
inefﬁcient, and even with such a virulent virus as pasteurella 90 per cent of the
contacts survived in one experimental infection. Moreover the viruses sold to
the public are sometimes dead before sale. Those sold in this country are
usually a variety of Salmonella enteritidis, and in certain foreign countries,
though not hitherto in Britain, outbreaks of sickness among human beings and
domestic animals have in some instances been traced to its use. Attempts to
produce epizootics artiﬁcially among wild populations have invariably failed.

Direct attack.

Rats can be bolted with an unmuzzled ferret and either caught by a
good terrier or shot. A really good terrier will kill at least as humanely as any
other agency.

Cats can be used for scaring rats away, but they are not humane as rat-
catchers. In respect of efﬁciency there are large individual variations, and
when cats are employed they should come of a good rafting strain. They should
be well fed. It is an error to suppose that a half-starved cat makes an agile
ratter.

The Rats Orders of 1941—4942 lay down that when a corn rick is being
threshed it must be surrounded by a fence and the rats must be destroyed. This
can be done with sticks and dogs, and, although it is an ugly proceeding while
it lasts, it probably enables more rats to be killed with less actual suffering than

 




most other methods. It is important that children should not be allowed to
take part in or watch the proceedings; they are apt to be brutalized as a result
of their immature mental reaction to a disagreeable though necessary operation.

Traps.

In no circumstances should gin traps, which crush the limbs, be used.
The four-inch gins are less inhumane than the three-inch since the former some-
times kill, but the latter never, but traps of this kind belong to the dark ages
and should have gone out with the rack and thumb screw.

Breakback traps with a platform trigger (such as the Nipper and Betta)
kill painlessly in the majority of cases if properly set. Unfortunately, however,
they are not infallible, and a certain percentage of victims are maimed by them.
It is desirable to guide the animal so that it approaches a trap from in front;
for instance, breakback traps may be set back-to-back in pairs, in tunnels. (A
tunnel may be constructed by leaning a plank against a wall.) Such traps should
be lightly set, so as to spring at the ﬁrst touch, with the bait rather far back.

Cage traps such as the Kindheart, the Brailsford and the Wonder are

humane if visited daily, but inhumane if the animals are left without water and
food.

Varnish (rat-lime) traps are inhumane and inefﬁcient and are used only
by the incompetent. The rats die from exhaustion or suffocation and the var-
nish (which most rats are intelligent enough to avoid) soon loses its efﬁciency.

Mice.

Poisoning is an unsatisfactory method of dealing with mice, which eat
little and often and will not therefore readily take a lethal dose. They can be
kept away by moistening frequented corners with Jeyes Fluid and by keeping
a cat. They can be killed by treadle breakback traps lightly set; these should
be shielded so that mice can only approach from the front, and it is essential
to set considerable numbers simultaneously. The bait should be placed carefully
so as to ensure a kill. Food should be kept in tins. Holes should be blocked with
putty mixed With mustard (mice eat war-time putty). Enclosed spaces occupied
by mice can be cleared out by the use of carbon monoxide (e.g. motor-car,
exhaust gas).
Rodent operatives.

0

For both efﬁciency and humaneness it is desirable to employ ofﬁcial
rodent operatives—under the Local Authority in the case of built-up areas,
or the County Agricultural Committee in rural areas; or alternatively to
employ commercial ﬁrms of good standing. Pressure should be brought'to bear,
however, upon these agencies to employ humane methods. Poisoning is the
usual technique, and only unsatisfactory poisons will be available to private
persons under the Poisons Rules; hence humanitarians must aim at concentrat-
ing vermin-control in the hands of public authorities and really reputable ﬁrms,
and insisting upon these bodies raising their standards of humaneness. It is well
to bear in mind, however, that it is against the interests of a commercial rat-
catcher to exterminate the source of his livelihood. '

 

 

Published by UFAW,
(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare),

284 Regent's Park Road, Finchley, London, N3
30 June, 1946

 




