 

 

 

 

Mam/1, I939 ' rice 3 .

 

Photo by] Good Companions. f J. H, Stcne

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
26 GROSVENOR PLACE, WESTMINSTER, LONDON, S.\X/.1

ubscrzplzbn for One Y ear, p057 free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is pan/irked monthly [a] ﬁre National Coaneil for Aninzals’ Wel are

az‘ 26 Grawener Plaee, IVerz‘niinyi‘er, London, S.W.I,' and all eornnennieaz‘ionr regarding i‘lJe magazine

 

rboald be addressed 2‘0 flee Editor.

Ediler: ROBERT. H. SPURRIER. '

Vol. XLV. March, 1939 No. 5
CONTENTS
Page Page

To SAVE YOUR LIFE. Roberf H. Sparrier I40

CRUEL SPORTS. E. G. Bar/022x . 141
MR. REYNARD INTERVIEWED. G. R.
MeFadden I42

THE SCHOOL DOG. Enid E. [Vi/ran . I44

REFUGEE ANIMALS ON FRANCO—SPANISH
FRONTIER. Fergar AlaeCann . . I46

GALLANT MOORLAND RESCUE . . 14']
FROM ONLOOKERS’ NOTE BOOK. Onlea/éer 148
A NATURALIST’S NOTE BOOK. Hadron

Read . . . I49
NEED FOR STRICTER BIRD PROTECTION
Cai Bane . . . ISO

SIR EDWIN .ARNOLD. Baril Harrey— ainei 152

SCIENCE AND ANIMAL WELFARE. Part II.
C. IV. Harrie . . . . . 155

 

ABOUT THE GREY WOLF.

Among the native tribes of North West Canada
there is a wealth of legend and tradition woven round
the grey wolf. Samuel Hearne, the great explorer,
tells of having seen Indians taking pups from dens in
order to play with them, adding: “ I never knew a
Northern Indian to hurt these little creatures; they
always return them carefully to the den and I have
sometimes seen them paint the faces of the young
wolves with vermilion or red ochre.

The Indians of Chippewyan region had no scruples
about trapping or shooting wolves but because of
some strange and obscure superstition never skinned
the animals. This curious and apparently contra-
dictory behaviour was regarded with much disfavour
by the early fur—traders who were naturally loath to see
valuable wolf pelts going to waste. When an Eskimo
hunter killed a male wolf he placed a miniature bow
and arrow beside the body of the slain creature. A
needle case was laid near the carcase of a female wolf.
These working tools were for use of the spirits of the
dead animals.

(From Animal; of tee Canadian Roekier, by Dan
McGowan. Lovat Dickson Limited.)

W'ILD LIFE IN BRITAIN. Erie Hard .1,

F.Z.S. . 156
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’
WELFARE . . . . . . 158
THE LIBRARY TABLE . . . . I59
NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS . . . . . I61
SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
VIVISECTION . . . . . I 62
HONEY. Ada Al. Arlerga . . . I63
PIT PONIES PROTECTION SOCIETY . . 164
THE FAIRFIELD REFUGE . . . I65
LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL
SPORTS. . . . . . . I66
CORRESPONDENCE . . . . . I 67

 

A HEAVY RANSOM.

Having been given a thorough education by the
parents, the young wolf is, at the outset, well equipped
for the hard life which is apparently the lot of this most
primitive of wild dogs. It has been taught to avoid
mankind and all his works, to dread the gun, and in
recent years at least, to sniff but not swallow the
poisoned bait. It is not easily trapped and even when
caught is prepared to pay heavy ransom in order to
regain freedom. Many stories have been told of the
fortitude of trapped wolves. In setting a steel trap
it is customary to fasten the chain to a log or stone
which, while moving slightly when pulled or jerked,
will not hamper the victim in its movements. Other—
wise the captive is almost certain to snap the bone and
sever the leg by which it is held. Bishop T aché in his
memoirs of- the North West, tells of a trapped wolf
having dragged the trap, together with the chain and
block of wood to which it was attached, for many
days and for very many miles.

(From Animals of Me Canadian Rockies, by Dan
McGowan. Lovat Dickson Limited.)

138

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Marc/1, I 939

Notes and Comments
Our New Address.

No. 26, Grosvenor
Place, London, S.W.I,
is the new address
of the National Coun-

fare and of THE
ANIMALS’ FRIEND.
Will you please make
a note of this in
your memory and also
in your address book?
The move is being
made as these notes
are being written, on
March ISt. No more
communications
should be sent to
the old address.
The Council’s tenancy
of the rooms at 26,
Grosvenor Place cannot be a long one, as the lease
of the premises expires in September, 1940, and the
building, we understand, will then be demolished.
In the meantime, however, the Council will be com-
fortably housed in a very accessible and pleasant part
of London.

No. 26, Grosvenor Place is the headquarters of The
Economic Reform Club and Institute. The chairman
of the Executive Committee of the Club is the Editor
of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, and Mr. and Mrs. J. L.
Cather are members of its executive, so from our
point of view the change of address will have obvious
advantages, and save a good deal of wear and tear and
time. There is good accommodation available in the
house not only for the purpose of offices but also for
the holding of meetings. It is proposed to hold the
Spring meetings Of the N.C.A.W. at this address
on Tuesday, May 23rd. \Y/ill our friends please note
the date and arrange to be with us on that occasion?
There will be an afternoon session, followed by tea
and by an evening session, all being well.

To Save Your Life?

The article on page I40 of this month’s ANIMALS’
FRIEND is reprinted by kind permission from the
March—May, 1939, issue of Tbe Animalr’ Cbampz'on.
Many of our readers know The Animalr’ C/mmpz'on and
appreciate it ; to those who do not know it we commend
it to their attention. A feature of this quarterly is its
supplement of Health and Nature Cure. lee Animals’
Cbampz'on is the organ of the “ \World League Against
Vivisection and for the Protection of Animals,” of
which Miss M. E. Ford—whose great work for animal
welfare (especially perhaps in connection with the
World Day for Animals) merits special mention and
support—is the Hon. Secretary.

 

“ Clearing-House Scheme.”

The Joint Committee appointed at the Conference
of animal protection societies convened by the National
Council for Animals’ Welfare on July Ist last, had a
further meeting to consider the replies received from
Societies invited to participate in the scheme on
February 2181:, at 26, Grosvenor Place.

Although not all the Societies invited to co—operate

cil for Animals’ Wel- '

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

can see their way to come in at the moment, in view
of the considerable number who had signiﬁed their
warm approval of the scheme and their readiness to
participate, it was felt that it would be a grave mistake to
lose the present opportunity, afforded by this evidence
of goodwill and appreciation of the urgency of the
matter in the interests of animal welfare, of making a
beginning by waiting until other societies could see
their way to come in. It was, therefore, decided to
go ahead, with one or two modiﬁcations to the original
scheme, and a further communication will be issued
to the societies interested very shortly. If these
modiﬁcations are accepted, and we think they will be,
then the way will be clear to call the ﬁrst meeting
of the Clearing—House Committee or Council or what-
ever it may be called.

A report of the July Conference and of the sugges-
tions for the Scheme appeared in THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND of August, 1938.

Fifty years a Veterinary Surgeon.

We regret that we have had to hold up the review
of this volume of Sir Frederick Hobday’s reminiscences
promised for this month until April. A review of
Bird;~ and Bead: by Chiang Yee—a portfolio of animal
drawings with notes—will also appear in April.

Lord Sempill’s Bill.

Lord Sempill’s Bill to discourage the farming of
rabbits for the purposes of the trapper, and to prohibit
the setting of spring traps in the open runs, has passed
through all stages in the House of Lords, and is ex—
pected to be on the Statute Book very shortly. The Bill
constitutes Phase I of the programme of legislation
promoted by UFAW (Universities’ Federation for
Animal \Welfare) and an article on it by Captain C. W.
Hume, Honorary Secretary of . UFA\W, will appear
in the April number of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

Island Bird Sanctuary.

The value of a bird sanctuary does not necessarily
depend upon its size. In 1928 two small islands at the
mouth of the Walla-Walla and Columbia rivers,
in the state of Washington, were reserved by the
Federal Government. These cover only about eight
acres, but the number of ducks, geese, blue herons,
and other water and shore-birds that are now nesting
there is enormous.

(From Warden; of tbe Wild.)

The Animal Pictorial.

\‘C’ith each successive issue The Animal Picz‘orz'a/
maintains its all-round excellence and enlarges, we are
glad to hear, its circulation. At the time of writing we
have not seen the March issue but we heartily con-
gratulate the Editor and all concerned in its production
on the February magazine. The regular features
were as good as ever, and a new one, which ﬁrst made
its appearance with the January issue, deserves special
mention. This is f‘ Animals in Literature ” by Dorothy
Corkill with illustrations by Neave Parker. If you
have not yet seen T126 Animal Pillorz'al you should
write to 30, Craven Street, London, W.C.2, for a copy.

The Rescue Party.

This illustration on p. 147 is reproduced by kind
permission of the Black Star Publishing Co., and the
Daily Exprew.

139

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Marc/z, 1939

To Save. Your Life?

BY ROBERT H. SPURRIER.‘

the Lister Institute of Preventive Medi—

cine, Professor C. J. Martin, M.B., D.Sc.,
F.R.S., was asked by a member of the Royal
Commission on Vivisection to what he
attributed “ the very strong feeling existing
in a large section of the public against the
employment of experiments on animals.”
His reply was: “ I think it is the natural
instinct of a decent—minded man,” and, he
added, “it has to be reasoned out of him.”

In this brief statement we have the essence
of the ethical issue between the supporters
of vivisection and those who oppose the prac—
tice. No cultured and humane person would
deny that the idea of inﬂicting pain and suffer—
ing upon members of the animal kingdom
(members so different to ourselves in many
ways, yet closely akin to us in sensibility to
pain, sensitiveness to suffering and in emotional
response and feeling), not in their own in—
terests but in order to beneﬁt the “ higher ”
animals in whose power they are placed, is
abhorrent and intolerable.

On the other hand we have the vivi—
sectionist who says that this idea is unreason—
able. The feeling of consideration and com—
passion for other animals is, in his opinion,
sentimental and unscientiﬁc, and opposed to
the best interests of humanity. But why,
it may be asked, should an instinct—a natural
and decent instinct that in inﬂuencing and
directing human conduct makes for sanity
and goodwill—why should it be in conﬂict with
reason? It seems to me quite unintelligent
that it should.

To this objection the answer is returned
“ To save your life 1 If they don’t suffer—you
must! ” This is the actual heading given to
an article on the subject in 7796 Saiia’ay Pictorial
of December 18th, last. But this is not an
answer, it is an appeal to self-interest and fear.

Now even if the choice open to us were a
choice between suffering ourselves or passing
on to others who are unable to defend them—
selves against our selfishness and tyranny.
the pain and suffering that we shrink from—-
'which I for one deny—there are many who
would prefer to maintain their decency of
feeling rather than follow the reason which
argues, as the writer of the article in T196
Sundry) Pictorial argues, that “ animals should
be made to suffer agonies in the interests of

SOME years ago the then Director of

science.” “ Do you believe,” he asks, “ that
their skulls should be split open while they
are still alive? That bones should be de-
liberately broken? That they should be
slowly burned, baked, parboiled, drowned,
inoculated with every dread disease known to
humanity?” “I do,” he admits, and con—
tinues : “ To save the life of one human being
I would willingly-agree to the slaughter of a
thousand dogs, cats, guinea—pigs, rats.”

Here we have the roaroii of the vivisectionist
set out in bold relief against the iiatara/ imtirirt
of decent—minded folk. Which is your choice?
Personally I prefer the latter and am more than -
ready to face up to the awful risks of living
in a community from which vivisection
and all its works have been abolished! I am
convinced that it would be a healthier, happier
and saner world, both for man and animals,
than the one in which we live and in which the
vivisectionist logic prevails. There are other
means of preventing, treating and curing
disease than those provided through the
instrumentality of vivisectional research—
methods which do not demand the violation of
natural instincts of humanity and decency.

The cruelty of vivisection is sometimes
defended as “ necessary ” cruelty. It has.
always seemed to me an extraordinary thing
that anyone with any claim to common-sense
could believe that the way to health for
humanity is to be found by creating disease
in animals and that our health. and well—being
should be dependent on their suffering and
discomfort. Perhaps we should do well to
enquire whether the practice of vivisection
has been created, and is maintained, not by
any real necessity of life, but rather by reason
of ill—health and disease caused in large
measure by our disinclination to pursue,

individually and collectively, temperance, clean— -

liness and activity, which Dr. Robert Hutchin-
son has described as “ the three cardinal
virtues of the body as faith, hope and charity
are of the soul.”

It has been said “ No cruelty is useful,”
but this is not in accord with the reason of
self-preservation, which is the reason of the
world to—day and is leading it to destruction
and death. Neither is it in accord with another
word which comes to us down the ages from
One who gave His own life for others——
“ He that loveth his life shall lose it.”

140

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

M ore/z, I939

Cruel Sports

BY E. G. BARLOW.

Ai‘somlnr flnd uoeornplz'ees. Mun’r neerz'z‘
Hus found lune z‘loree, z‘lJe loner/é, z‘loe loound,
z‘l9e ferref.———W. S. BLUNT.

Hawking.

' AW’KING was a popular and fashion—
able sport. The hawks were caught as
nestlings, or specially bred. They

were trained to swoop upon game, kill it,
and return to their owners. The hawker
wore a thick leather glove, and the bird was
trained to perch on his left wrist. In the early
stages of training, a piece of offal was used to
temptethe bird back to his owner’s wrist.

A great fuss was made of the hawks.
The goshawk was most valued. The falcon
was thought sufficiently high of to make the
taking of a falcon’s egg punishable by a year’s
imprisonment. Hawking resulted in laws to
preserve game (for the hawker). Severe laws
covered partridges, pheasants, plovers, wood-
cock, quails, herons, bustards, wigeon, etc.
A night’s poaching was punished with a
month’s imprisonment or ,5 I fine.

The mentality of the hawker was shown by
a fifteenth century writer, John Paston who
wanted a hawk, and wrote to his brother:
“ I ask no more <good of you for all flee reruz'ee flour
I shall do you 2uln'le flee u/orld stander/o, but 4 goes—
ewe . . . now z‘ln'n/é on nee good lord, for if I
none not ex loan/k I slut/l mm for for none of
labour. . . . God send you all your desires, and
nee ngy Inen/ed goss—loouué z'n loosie.”

Someone else describes hawking as “ a most
prineeb/ and .verz'ous dele'gln‘.”

Hawks ’are mentioned as presents from the
Russian ambassadors.

That hawking did not meet with the approval
of all is shown by a fourteenth century
caricature of a monkey hawking!

Hunting.

Anything capable of running was hunted
at all times, anyhow, and with mixed packs.
Boar, deer, and fox were common animals
and were all hunted. James I was devoted to
hunting, and the country folk murmured
against him for ruining their crops. Once
they tied a petition to the neck of his favourite
hound, asking the King and his court to go
back to London, but James ignored them.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

There is a curiously modern touch about
a fourteenth century print depicting a fox
carrying oﬂC a hen, whilst a farm wife rushes,
belatedly, to the rescue!

Hunting horses and dogs were carefully
trained.

Stubbs complained that some “ rpend more in
one year on loan/k5 and looundr ileun z‘lzey would
ever (give 2‘o tloe poor in reoen.” Another writer
says that the nobles think much more of their
hawks and hounds, and study more to bring up
good hounds than wise heirs. Caricaturists
of the time attacked “ flye dislurberr of eloure/o
seroz'ee ”—men who bring hawks and hounds
into church, and spend the time talking to
loose women.

But the supporters of hunting defended
their sport, claiming “ floor lounz‘eri~ shall go to
lyeouen when #991 die! and line in floz's world more
joyfully z‘lmn my oz‘loer nzen.”

F erreting.

If the early prints are to be believed ferreting
seems to have been a sport peculiar to women.
A fourteenth century print shows a woman
putting a ferret into a burrow, and from the

. other end of the burrow a frightened rabbit

bolts into a net held by another woman. In
other prints women shoot rabbits with bow
and arrow; or vigorously attack rabbits with
sticks.

Fashions in weapons and accomplices change,
but the cruelty stays.

 

Fantaz'l Goldfiylo.

BZ

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Marc/z, 1939

Mr. Reynard Interviewed
An interview (exe/nsine) wit/9 Rag/nerd Foxe, Esq, of the Spinney, [a] Mix: Diana T. Ani‘iny, of the

C/mre, Lengben/e, Lawns/nee.

Re/njen’ on a new! long inane—length by G. R. MCFADDEN.

 
 
   
  
 

Uni/7???” /
a ‘3 '
14.5? ,4; /—, -
r 1 / 'ﬂ\"/
3%.; n

 
    

   
 
   

\_
.‘Qé‘i ~‘

(£13.
\\ \~

\

 

f§

Loamshire, which came into prominence

about sixty or seventy years ago, and is
famous for its gallant regiment and no less
gallant members of the Loamshire Hunt.
It was, therefore, a great pleasure to me to be
requested by the Editor of the Tel/l] H0 Times
to interview Mr. Reynard F oxe and endeavour
to get at first hand his views upon the greatly
misunderstood subject of Hunting.

I found Mr. F oxe at home in his comfortable
residence the Spinney, and was received
with grave dignity not unmixed with cordiality.
When I introduced the object of my visit
he smiled benignly and expressed his readiness
to place himself at my disposal.

“ So much has been said and written upon
the subject,” he observed, “ that is contrary
to the true attitude of my family, that I wel—
come this opportunity of setting the matter

I AM exceedingly proud of my county of

right before a well-meaning, but utterly
mislead public.”

“I have then,” said I “ your permission to
publish anything that you may say?”

“ Certainly,” Mr. Foxe responded graciously,
“ magna est veritas . . . and the sooner it
prevails the better.”

“ You are a philosopher,” I remarked,
as I got out my notebook.

“ My dear madam, a race which has been
so long and so intimately associated with
the nobler part of mankind could hardly
fail to be otherwise. What do you especially
want to know?”

“Is it true, as so constantly asserted,
that your family objects to being hunted? ”

“ Objects? Certainly not! Why should
it? Does not the continuance of this ﬁne old
British sport not only prevent us Foxes from
becoming extinct as a race, but also raise us
from insigniﬁcance to a position of extreme

~ importance? Can any thinking person imagine

that we would willingly forego the glory of
being mentioned three or four times a week
in the public press—the cost of such celebrity
being merely the probable loss of life—for the
tameness and ignominy of dull years dragged
out to a natural and painful end? We should
have gained little from our intimacy with
your noble race if it had taught us no better
than that.”

“ I take it, then,” said I, “ that you have
little sympathy with the N.A.C.S. and
kindred societies? ”

I was almost alarmed at the look of extreme
ferocity that over—spread Mr. Foxe’s expressive
countenance as he replied:

“ Sympathy? Sympathy with a body of
ill—informed and misguided individuals who
seek to rob me and my kin of our natural
deathrite? I can only say that I wish all such
enemies to our race were—shot! and that is
regarded by us with extreme abhorrence as
being the most shameful of ends.”

“ You fully recognise then, that the members
of the Hunt are your real friends?”

“ Our only true friends,” he replied with
deep emotion. “ \Without them, what a tame
and monotonous existence ours would be!

142

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Marc/z, 1939

no cheery horn to arouse us from our sleep
in the early morning ; no sudden baying of the
hounds, as they pick up the first scent, to
uplift our spirits; no exhilarating dash into
view; no excitement of the chase, with the
hounds running strongly and the field pound-
ing on behind—to say nothing of the delightful
prospect of being caught within an hour’s
run, breathless and exhausted, and feeling the
gentle caress of the MWFH before being
tossed to the yelping pack amidst the grinning
plaudits of the ladies and gentlemen who have
contributed so largely to our day’s enjoyment.
Long may they ﬂourish to harry us for their
own harmless pleasure!”

“ But is there not always the chance that
you may escape the hounds? ” I objected.

Mr. Foxe nodded his head.

“ Unfortunately yes; but only a very small
one, I am happy to say. \What a lamentable
waste of time it is when the day’s sport ends
without a kill!”

“ You yourself have escaped hitherto,”
I suggested, thinking how delightful a quarry
he would make, as he sat there with his
brush curled round him and his eyes fixed
almost affectionately on mine.

He sighed.

“ Up to the present yes, though I have lurked
in all the likely coverts this season. Last year
I had the good fortune to be found, but
unhappily for me, my scent was lost before I
had been chased a couple of miles. If my
run of luck persists I shall have to call attention
to my presence by running out under the
M.F.H.’s eyes.”

“ I believe that is done sometimes,” I said.

“ Oh, frequently, my own gradfather did
it when I was a cub. He ran in a circuit
and at the end of the day I had the pleasure
of seeing him thrown to the pack within a
few feet of where he started. It was that
thrilling sight, followed by the quaint ceremony
of blooding the children that ﬁrst fired my
ambition to end likewise.”

“And the cubs,” I asked, “ do they also
enjoy being hunted? ”

“ One must make allowances for infantile
intelligences,” he mused, “ but on the whole
there are few of the babies who do not wriggle
with glee when they realise what is about to
happen to them.”

“ Will you tell me,” I was beginning,
when Mr. Foxe glanced at a dandelion clock
that stood in his apartment.

“ Excuse me,” he said, “ but I believe that

143

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

my good , friends the Foxhounds meet at
10 a.m., at Longbowe Hall. I should be sorry
to miss them.”

“ They do,” I rejoined, “ and as I myself
am due there I will detain you no longer,
Goodbye— ”

“ Not goodbye, cm revoz'r,” and Mr. Foxe
extended his pad, “ since it seems'we may meet
again before sunset. So charming of yOu to
call. I have greatly valued this opportunity of
letting the great British Public know my family’s
real feeling with regard to the whole question
of Blood Sports. I only hope it will not think
me at all biassed by personal considerations,
much might, of course, be said of the beneﬁ—
cient effect of these gentle pastimes upon the
industry of farming, and the character of those
who indulge in them. For instance, gallantry
in battle and tenderness in the sick room have
alike been learned in the hunting ﬁeld.”

His manner was so gracious that I felt a
little compliment would not be misplaced.

“ What a lovely brush you have!” I said
as I rose to go.

Mr. Foxe grinned with pleasure.

“ My dear Madam, I have always taken pride
in it; not for my own sake, you understand,
but because I look forward to the day when it
will become the possession of one of your
gentle sex ; perhaps your fair self madam.”

At this moment the merry blast of a horn
broke the stillness outside.

“Are they coming this way?” Mr. Foxe
asked in the greatest excitement. “ Please
look out and see! ”

“ They are,’ ’I told him after a cautious
peep, and as I hastened away to join the glad
throng I heard Mr. F oxe break into a whoop of
joy before breaking into the uplifting strains
of “ John Peel.”

Well, it is good to have got the plain facts
of the case straight at last, isn’t it?

  

' 4

. & géx’: ‘- '12. ' i '
/:V’-/:— —1.\?‘,‘ if", I .. \
NW§ ' Z: ll“ ‘ \
ssw W
\\.\ x. :2: NMN)\ \w ‘N/h ,1), ( W
/l W . #-

 
  

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The School Dog

BY ENID . E. WILSON.

EAT found
P i t m u C h
more in—

teresting to be a
school dog than
a house dog pure
and simple. Of
course, in a sense

Peat he was still a
house dog. He had his mistress to look after,
and her own special rooms as well as all her
belongings. But in addition there was the
school, and it was because of this that life
opened out before him to reveal a variety of
possibilities for companionship and interest
that had never come his way before.

 

His ﬁrst home was happy enough, right
in the heart of the country. He could go
quickly from his kennel across the yard into
acres of park land, where delightful smells
awaited him on every side. But circumstances
made it necessary that a new home should be
found for him, so it was arranged that he
should go to a small day school in Cheshire.
He found the journey trying, the smell of
trains and stations in no way to his liking.
Eventually at one small station he was taken
out of the train. A woman’s voice spoke to
him. “ Peat!” it said, “ Peat! We are
going to make you very welcome.” He
sniffed at the back of a hand held towards him,
then he licked it. He looked up. “ Peat! ”
he heard again. “Peat, old man. This is
your home now.”

All was well. He was led for a short
distance along a suburban type of road, then in
at a garden gate and along to a kitchen.
He had water given him and he drank thirstily.
Later on he was fed. The days passed
uneventfully but happily. At ﬁrst his mistress
took him on the lead, but soon she left him
free to walk as he pleased.

He rather missed the park land and found
the suburban roads somewhat strange but he
came on a set of new interests: the shops.
He had never in his life been in a shop before.
They were all in the main street of the village,
and the owners knew his mistress well. Soon
they knew him too, and would greet him:

 

Marc/1, 1939

“Well, Peat! Hallo, old man.” For Peat
though only three years old had a sedate
appearance, enhanced by the trim glossiness
of his black wavy coat. As a cocker he just
failed of perfection. He was slightly too
big and too heavily built.

About three weeks passed, then his mistress
grew very active. Maids were busy doing
extra cleaning. Peat found his way into
rooms he had not entered before. Then one
morning about ten o’clock the activity
increased rapidly. Cars began to arrive at the
gate in the side road. Children got out of
them and came running up the path. Some
of the children were alone, some were ac-
companied by grown-ups.

Other children, again, came on foot, three or
four rode on bicycles, one even came on a pony.
The children took off their outdoor things
and changed their shoes, most of the grown-
ups departed. Then everyone went into a
large room and Peat followed, sitting down
quietly on the ﬂoor near to where his mistress
was standing. She seemed to talk a long time
to the children, then he heard his name. She
was telling the children about him. “ This is
Peat. He is our school dog, and belongs to
all of you. Treat him well,” she said.

Peat looked at the children. Already in the
cloakrooms he had felt some of their little
ﬁngers stroking his hanging ears, tracing the
crinkly softness of their long hair with gentle
touches. He barked, making short staccato
yaps. He thumped his tail hard on the ﬂoor.
A high voice called out “ Just listen to him.
He’s yapping and knocking ’cos he’s glad.
I know he is.”

That was Peat’s ﬁrst day of school life.
As the days followed he formed new habits
to ﬁt in with all his new interests. He waited
at the school gate each morning and afternoon,
knowing by instinct the right time to do so.
Some of the children he grew extraordinarily
fond of: Jane, Maureen, Rachel, John and
Michael. He liked most of the dogs, too, that
accompanied the children, Kirsty the Dandie
Dinmont, Don the Great Dane, MaX the Sealy—
ham, for instance. These dogs never stayed
long but it was pleasant to greet them all the
same.

Peat gradually learned his way about all
the neighbourhood. He slipped out very
often after morning prayers and made his
way down the little street leading to the shops.

144

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Marc/1, 1939

He called at the butcher’s, the ﬁshmonger’s
and the tripe shop and everyone grew very
familiar with him. Many a titbit came his way,
most times in the form of a freewill offering,
but now and again it must be confessed
Peat took some tasty morsel or other without
invitation. Perhaps that is why he slowly
grew stouter and more staid—looking, or perhaps
another factor was the cause.

Eleven o’clock was a time that soon took
on special importance. The children as—
sembled in the big room then and had milk
and biscuits. Theoretically Peat was not
supposed to have any food except at his set meal
times. But it was surprising how many tiny
pieces of Petit Beurre or Marie biscuits,
sometimes even Ginger Nuts, would ﬁnd their
way into his mouth.

At the end of morning school came the
“ walk,” and this was Peat’s joy of joys.
For although what roads there were smacked
of Suburbia they were few enough to be soon
left behind. A ﬁeld path led to the old high
road that bordered on The Edge. In late
spring and early summer bilberry ﬂowers and
pale wood sorrel blossoms bordered the
sandy shaly soil above the wall. Tufts of ﬁne
heathy grass grew beyond these. Then came
the beeches and larches. Going through
the gate on to the sloping scarp the children
scrambled and climbed and played. Some-
times there was time to reach the crest and
look over the more gradual slope to the
undulations beyond.

The whole time Peat was in ecstasy. No
longer staid, he ran, he barked, he pushed into
old deposits of beech leaves. He forced his
way into rabbit holes under the lee of some
sandy bank. Once he was almost lost and
could be heard squealing and yapping. And
all the time a rabbit sat peacefully listening
to him just above on the bank.

Holidays were a mystery to Peat. He
would wander disconsolately from place to
place looking lonely and lost. Let but term—
time begin again and once more routine
claimed him : that happy cycle of house, school,
shops and The Edge: completely satisfying
in their combined offering of mistress, child
companions, gastronomic delicacies and a
never-failing series of delightful adventures
and smells.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

An Intelligent Dog

AVE you ever known a dog who loathes
his fond and loving mistress? I have.
He is a smart little chap, and I meet him
every day (more or less) near a certain Railway
Arcade. He [outlier her, so would you,
and therefore you cannot blame him. I
know the idea is that dogs are so faithful
and true that, given a certain amount of affec—
tion, they would die for you. But dogs are
intelligent animals, and I defy any dog to
love this woman. It is not only her appear-
ance (she has a beard) but it is her personality.
She never leaves him alone. She jerks him
away from everything, and everyone knows
how important smells are to the happiness of a
dog. “ Punch ” spoke some years ago of “ the
harmless investigations which form so large a
part of the life of a dog.” That is exactly it,
he is allowed no harmless investigations and
my blood boils when I see how his neck is
jerked when he tries to indulge in them.
He and I have a nodding acquaintance only;
we are both too much in awe of this she—dragon.
If I were younger than I am and also more
of my own mistress I would steal that dog.
But as it is, I think I shall have to go another
way round to my ofﬁce so that I may not have
to meet his pleading eyes. E. S.

 

Photo by]

U, H. Stone

145

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

’ ' ' ”W" twig 7~M77~q~ww —:.-~—ev——«— . . ”WU—mam

Marc/1, I939

Refugee Animals on the A Franco-Spanish" Frontier

heard that the above animals were in
a rather bad condition, and the same
night it was decided to send an Inspector
and one of the staff to Perpignan to give ﬁrst
aid and to report on the position without delay.

Within two hours of arrival they were
making enquiries and found that at St.
Cyprien a camp of some 70,000 Spanish Govern-
ment troops had been formed. The camp is
situated on sand dunes and conditions were
in a state of indescribable confusion; men,
mules, horses, sheep and goats were all
lying on the ground exhausted. There was no
fodder for the animals and no water for them.
There was only one spring which was being
controlled by the French Authorities, and
queues of men, over a quarter of a mile long,
were waiting to obtain water to drink. No
one had time to deal with the animals.

The whole of the land is given over to
vines and there is hardly any pasture. What
little grass there is, is very poor and the
countryside does not seem, even in peace time,
to support any milch cattle, simply mountain
goats and a few sheep. The result was that
these animals could not ﬁnd much sustenance
and, after their privations, had little hope of
recovery without attention. Some horses
had suppurating sores, a few were lame and
had superficial wounds and they were very
thin. The mules were in better fettle, though
many of them were exceedingly debilitated.
A few dead animals were lying about.

One horse collapsed as the Society’s repre-
sentatives were examining the animals and a
number of others were obviously in a dying
state; the total number of mules and horses
in the camps being roughly 5,000.

There were also a few goats and sheep but
only two dogs.

Subsequently the two representatives went
to le Boulou. This is a centre for refugee
civilians and their animals, and it is only three
miles from the frontier. Here women, child—
ren, horses, mules, fowls and a few goats were
all out in fields which were completely bare of
grass. Complete chaos reigned and the ani—
mals had no food whatever. Many were in a
pitiable condition. They estimated there were
250 horses and mules at this place.

The French were doing their utmost to

ON the 10th February, the R.S.P.C.A.

cope with the situation but 400,000 refugees
had recently poured into France, and their
transport was unable to cope with the strain
put on it.

As a result of what they had seen and the
enormous task before them, the Society’s
representatives telephoned to England urging
that the R.S.P.C.A. Veterinary Unit should be
sent out immediately. .Accordingly the Unit
left on Wednesday, the 15th February, and
since its arrival has found another camp at
Argeles Plage where there are 1,500 equines,
mostly mules, and at Bourg Madame where
there are an additional 5,000 animals.

Colonel Stordy, who is in command of the
Unit, obtained a permit from the Prefecture
to visit all the camps and he is actively engaged
in co—operating with the French Authorities.
He now reports that all the animals have been
fed and watered; that he has given first aid
to a number, and that the French Veterinary
Services were becoming very short of surgical
dressings, so much so that his offer of such
supplies from those taken to France by-the
Unit has been gladly accepted.

The cost of the expedition is being financed
out of the Society’s Empire and Foreign
Fund which exists for the purpose of dealing
with emergencies of this kind overseas,
and in giving grants to animal protection

societies throughout the world.
FERGUS MACCUNN.

Cheshire Cats.

Most people are familiar with the saying
“ Grinning like a Cheshire Cat,” but the
explanation of it is not so well known.
“ Grinning like a Cheshire Cat chewing gravel”
(to quote it in full) has its origin in the not—too—
successful efforts of some wandering artist
whose rampant lions were more suggestive
of the domestic cat. The rampant lion crest
of the Egertons (a well—known Cheshire family)
over the door of a public house has in some
places caused the inn to be better known as
“ The Romping Kitling ” than by the sign—
board title. The “ Cat at Charlton ” is another
inn whose name has come from a popular

misunderstanding of sign painter’s heraldry.
G. B.

146

h " It!» .

 

 

 

 

 

 




. w Q’s4m ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Marc/1, 1939

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Gallant Moorland Rescue

NE day early in February, the technical
headquarters of the People’s Dis-

pensary for Sick Animals received a
message from a supporter in the West Country
saying that sheep and moorland ponies had been
caught in a tremendous blizzard ; some of them,
in inaccessible parts of Dartmoor, were
imprisoned or actually buried in the snowdrifts.

The P.D.S.A. staff thereupon made en-
quiries from the police, National Farmers
Union, and other authorities in several
Devonshire towns, all of which tended to
confirm the report, though details as to the
actual location of the endangered animals were
at first vague. An enquiry was also made in
the offices of the Westem Morning News,
a leading daily newspaper, with the result
that the next morning a member of the staff
telephoned again to the P.D.S.A. giving
exact details of where the animals were to be
found, and stated that a properly equipped
rescue expedition could do much humane
work.

Five Technical Oﬂicers of the P.D.S.A. (all
volunteers) set off the same day in a motor
caravan. After an unfortunate breakdown
on a lonely road, which delayed the party
for three hours, they arrived at Tavistock
more or less at the crack of dawn. After a
hearty and rapid breakfast, they were met by a
local farmer who boarded' the caravan with
them and guided them towards the first spot
where their work was likely to be needed.
After they had gone some distance, deep snow
made further progress in the caravan impos-
sible, and so the party set off on foot carrying
hay, stimulating drinks, shovels and food.
Across the moorland for ﬁve miles they
floundered, thrusting their way through the
snow, across marshes and swollen streams.

 

At length they came to a herd of 40 moorland
ponies who were packed in a small space,
bounded by a stream, a hedge, a snowdrift
and a wall. The P.D.S.A. rescuers dug their
way through the drift, so that the ponies
could escape, and get on to higher ground
where they would find pasture. These animals
were so wild and nervous, that at ﬁrst they
huddled away from the rescuers and refused to
touch the hay that was thrown down for them.
It was not until the party was nearly two
miles away that they saw the ponies make a
wild break for freedom down the path they
had dug, and begin to eat the food which
had been left.

The plight of a number of sheep was even
worse than the ponies, because these in many
cases were buried alive and almost dead from
exhaustion when they were dug out. Some
indeed, had to be humanely destroyed, as it
was impossible to revive them. In this
part of the rescue work magniﬁcent help
was given by a most intelligent dog, who
seemed to possess an uncanny sense of smell,
and over and over again detected sheep which
were buried deep in the snow. The party
worked on without a stop even for food,
until night fell, after which they tramped back
across the moor to their headquarters ; soaked,
wearied but triumphant.

The work during the remaining days was
much on the same lines. They covered an
average of twenty miles a day under excep-
tionally hard weather conditions. One of
them had the misfortune to fall into the river
Dart when attempting to cross it; but the
whole party were so wet that this extra ducking
made little difference, and they carried on
again without delay!

T/Je Rerme Party.
147

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Marc/1, 1939

From Onlooker’s Note Book

Wild More/o is loud wit/o wiml oml mafiiig rong,
Sweez‘ leer wild oiolez‘r or flee (leg) it long.
TERESA HOOLEY.

The Stately Crane.
T/oere

rial/é; Zoe rz‘oiely emiie.

DRAYTON.

By an Act of
P a r l i a m e n t
passed in 1555,
a fine of twenty
pence was im—
posed on every
p e r s o n w h 0
should “ with—
draw, purloin,
take, destroy, or
convey,” any egg
of this species.

 

Are These

Photo by] [E. E. Horn/er Cranes D

Wild C Mile izear Glarlyii Hotel.
M A R c o P o L 0

(1254—1324), the Venetian traveller, was a
keen and truthful observer whose works
were much read in the Middle Ages. Writing
of Tartary at the close of. the thirteenth
Century he described some birds of gorgeous
hues, that he called cranes:

The ﬁrst sort are entirely black as crows, and I

‘ and have long wings. The second sort have wings
still longer than the ﬁrst, but are white and the
feathers of the wings are full of eyes, round like
those of the peacock, but of a gold colour and very
bright ; the head is red and black and well formed,
the neck is black and white, and the general.
appearance of the bird is extremely handsome.
The third sort are of the size of ours in Italy, the
fourth are small cranes, having the feathers
prettily streaked with red and azure. The fifth are
of a grey colour, with the head red and black,
and are of a large size.

EMMA PHIPSON in T/oe Animal—Lore of
Slookerpeore’s Time reminds us that “ there
was a notion, derived from antiquity, that
cranes during their migrations carried stones
in their beaks to keep them quiet.” According
to Pliny, the stone acted as ballast and main—
tained the steadiness of their ﬂight. Lyly
alludes to this notion: “ Having alwayes
the stone in their mouths which the cranes use
when they ﬂye over mountaines least they
make a noise.” Shakespeare has no mention
of the crane, which is summarily described in
my dictionary as follows : “ A migratory
“ wading bird with long legs, neck and bill.”

March Days.

TERESA HOOLEY needs no introduction
in these Notes and the extract that follows

is typical of her prose :

Butterﬂies, the real sulphur butterﬂies will soon
be about, trying their wings among the primroses,
till one wonders if a band of butterﬂies stars the
hedge or if ﬂowers ﬂy in the sky, so much alike
are the yellow of their wings and the primroses’
petals. Again there are the birds, the thrushes
and blackbirds and larks, with the laugh of the
woodpecker in the Quantoclo woods, and the
wind-haunted call of the owls at night. How glad
I am that my friend the little brown owl leaves the
court, as it were, without a stain on his character!

Timer 71'/J€Il I lie awake, aml loin/é,

Ami r/eep eo/i/er late and ligln‘,
Toe ooiee of tbe owl ir tlje voice of a friend.
A —o‘a//lﬂg out in tbe orig/2f.

And over all, over hill and wood, and meadow,
like a benison these sunny March days, broods a
soft haze like a dust of sifted turquoise.

Mad March Hares.

“ Is there on earth a more ludicrous animal
picture than two hares boxing in a love—
cause?” writes MARCUS \WOODWARD in his
delightful book of green days in forests
and blue days at sea. Here he is speaking
of the days of Mad March hares—for March
turns the hare’s head in an astonishing way :

Reared on their slender hind legs, they spin
round each other, sparring with their front feet,
with hisses and grunts, one suddenly springing
vertically in the air to come down with a slashing
leg-stroke. . . . The madness of the March hare
has given them their place in our proverbs,
and if they have not the fox’s place in fable and
literature, they have a curious niche in super—
stitious lore.

Uneonsenting Animals.

SAMUEL CLEMENS (Mark Twain) (I 8 35—1910),
the American author and humorist, after
trying various occupations became pilot on_
the Mississipi, and later lecturer and newspaper
editor. The Innocent; Abroad followed upon a
trip to Europe. Tom Sawyer, Huckleberry
Finn, and Pudzl’iiloeod Wilson are other writings
full of distinctive humour. This is what
Mark Twain had to say on Vivisection :

I believe I am not interested to know whether
vivisection produces results that are profitable
to the human race, or doesn’t. To know that the
results are proﬁtable to the race would not remove
my hostility to it. The pain which it inﬂicts
upon unconsenting animals is the basis of my
enmity toward it, and it is to me sufﬁcient justifica—
tion of the enmity without looking further.

' ONLOOKER.

148

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Marc/1, 1939

[HE ANIMAL-8’ FRIEND

A Naturalist’s Notebook

BY HUDSON READ.

at the four lane ends, a Yellow—hammer

calls “ A little bit of bread and no
cheese.” Occasionally he may chirrup one or
two notes that sound like zeet—zeet, or he
may seem to say chir—r—r-rr. As a glint of
sunlight touches the bird, his plumage of
golden yellow about head and breast take
on new beauty. Often when you tramp the
countryside this bird will ﬂit in and out of the
hedge—side just in front of you, as if he wishes
to attract attention. He has an affection
for low hedges, and'the margin of cornﬁelds,
and in my district is often seen about the gorse '
bushes on the, moor. When in ﬂight the
Yellow—hammer moves with a sort of dipping
motion, and the wings beat and close—the
characteristic ﬂight of the ﬁnch family to
which this bird belongs.

The Yellow—hammer, they will tell you,
in some country places, drinks a few drops of
the devil’s blood on a May morning—such is
ancient folklore.

lee brat/é, t/ee teaa’, and the gallon/yearling
Get a a’rap ‘0’ Me a’ez'l’y Maid z'l/éa May morning.

By the way, yellow yeorling is a northern,
or rustic name for the Yellow—hammer.
The word Hammer is derived from German
ammer, and means bunting. The eggs of the
bird are curiously marked—it is as if lines of
blood had been scribbled over the shell—-
and in olden times the witch or wise woman
of the village pretended to read this script
on the Yellow—hammer’s eggs. Even spells
and charms were supposed to be performed
by the aid of the egg of this innocent little
bird. John Clare, the old Northamptonshire
peasant poet, writes the following beautiful
lines on the subject :—

Egg: pen-serz'bb/ea’ o’er wit/7 me, their rile/[s
Remark/tag writing Jere/ls, Mate/9 fang; reads
A: Nature’s peeiy aaa’ pastoral spelle—

T/Jey are tbe Yellow-bammer’s and slye (la/e115,
Alert poet—like, ’mz'a’ brooks aaelf/owetg/ weeds.

So if on your rambles you should hear
some country boy, or man, or dame talk
about a “ Scribbling Lark,” “A Writing
Lark,” and “ The Writing Master,” you will
know that they refer to that wayside bird the
Yellow—hammer, yellow-bunting, yeorling.

Another bird to look for this month is the
gay chaﬂinch ; the cock bird likes to make

149

FROM the top of the weathered sign—post

play with his wings and display the white
bars thereon. The chafﬂnch is a feathered
dandy, trim and spruce; and I think that the
male bird is conscious of his smart appearance.
When disturbed, it rises with a rather sudden
upward motion to the nearest place of safety.
Sometimes when alarmed he will raise the
feathers on the crown of his head into a tiny
crest. The hen bird is more sombre than her
mate, for she wears no blue cap or jerkin of
reddish hue on the breast. It is diﬂﬂcult to
put the chafﬂnch’s song into words. One
writer on bird song gives it as “ Chip, chip,
chip; Tell, tell, tell; Tissy—choo-ee-o.” The
ordinary call note is “ pink—pink.”

It is pleasant to hear the song of the hedge-
sparrow as you walk along this rustic lane.
Myself I like the name dunnock for this bird,
as actually it does not belong to the sparrow
tribe, but to the musical family of warblers.
And the name hedge—sparrow somewhat
misleads the amateur student of bird life.
Two country names for the hedge-sparrow
are “ hedge—creeper ” and “ shufflewing.”

As the lane leads you into the quiet and
deserted countryside look out for that hand—
some bird, the jay, for on rare occasions it will
leave the woodlands and come to the ﬁelds in
search of food. But at the slightest noise it will
ﬂy, screaming, to its woodland home. The
jay has few friends, for the gamekeeper
shoots it, and the poacher hates it for its
harsh cry tells the keeper that intruders are
in the woods.

 

Photo by] , [Eric J. Hosking, F.R,P.S
Yellow—baamzer at nest. ‘

C2

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
Need for Strieter Bird Protection

BY CUI BONo.

[Copyright reserved

A rig/12‘ to be ar/Jarrzed 0f.

Pair of Ken‘re/s caught in gz'm [veneer/3 their nesting tree.

HE increasing interest which is being
taken in wild life generally, and the
replacing of the gun by the camera,
mark a changed outlook which is an encourag-
ing sign of the times. There is, however, still
a long way to go before we can count ourselves
the leaders in wild life protection as is quickly
realised by those who devote even a short
time to field study. Incredible blunders are
being made with the result that many of our
grandest and most useful beasts and birds are
ruthlessly slaughtered by selﬁsh and often
ignorant people.
All right—minded farmers deplore the de-

 

Marc/z, I939

crease of barn owls and kestrels and
realise the good these birds do in
keeping a check on rats and mice
in their stackyards and cornﬁelds,
yet the accompanying photographs
of a pair of kestrels caught in gin
traps beneath their nesting tree were
taken in Essex last year. All will
agree that this is a most disagree-
able sight, of which the person who
sets the traps should be thoroughly
ashamed. Not only is it illegal to
set traps in the open in this way,
thus endangering cattle, dogs, etc.,
but the kestrel is supposed to be
protected all the year round in the
county in question. In many dis—
tricts a bird watcher counts it a red—
letter day if he sees one of these fine
birds hovering overhead. It is a pity that
although farmers as a whole recognise the
kestrel as a valuable ally, every year they accept
paltry sums for their shooting rights and so
cannot be masters on their own land and pre-
vent this ruthless butchery. The number of
rats and mice which these birds would destroy
during the year is incalculable, and yet keepers
shoot, trap and poison them at every oppor-
tunity, regardless of the feelings of the farmers
who let the shooting. In some cases shooting
folk are anxious that their sport should not
involve the destruction of so much of our
wild life but there are other, and far more
numerous, instances where keepers
are encouraged to use any means
they please to wipe out creatures
which are both useful to agriculture
and an asset to the countryside.
What is more, the shooting gentry
are proud if they can bring back a
pair of kestrels, a sparrow hawk
or a long-cared owl on the game
cart.

It is sad to think that this sort
of thing is going on'all over the
country, to a far greater extent than
anyone can possibly realise, and
that although the necessary laws
have been passed for its prevention,
they are ignored by the very people
whose duty it is to see that the

[Copyright reserved

Clare-up of Female Kesz‘re/ in gin.

150

 

 

l
l
I
l

 




 

 

 

 

March, 1939

law is observed, to the detriment
of our countryside at large.

The Kestrel, says Newton, “ is most
observed while practising its hahit of hanging
in the air for a minute or two in the sarne
spot, h); rapid heats of its wings, as, with
head pointing to windward and expanded
tail it looks out for prey—consisting chiefly
of rniee, hnt it will at tirnes take a small
hird, and the remains of frogs, insects, and
eren earth—wern/s have heenfonnd in its erop.”

ERY few persons, who see the wild

Kl geese winging their way regularly across

the continent every spring and fall,
have a very clear idea of how they really live
in their natural environment.

With its dark grey body, black neck and
white patch under its jaw, the wild goose is
a picturesque character along the shore of
any woodland lake or river.

The wild goose is a true weather prophet,
and it is very seldom that it makes a mistake
and is caught in a snow storm of any conse-
quence. When the frosty nights of early
fall appear on its northern range, the geese
gather in bands of from thirty to a hundred
or more and, led by an old gander, line up in
a V—shaped formation to begin their annual
migration.

During the ﬂight, the geese stop from time
to time to feed, but always, when the ﬂight
is resumed, the old gander is in the lead, with
the lesser geese strung out in the characteristic
formation. ,Occasionally the birds in the two
lines change places, but the lead gander never
gives up his position unless he is killed or
wounded. If the leader is killed, the whole
ﬂock is thrown into a turmoil, often losing
their bearings entirely and ﬂying aimlessly
around for several days, before another leader
takes his place and once more leads the ﬂock
on its migratory Course.

Wild geese nest in our most northerly states
and Canada and winter in our warm southern

151.

THE ANIMAI S’ FRIEND

 

[Copyright reserved
Male Kestrel trying to strike with one foot free.

Facts About Wild Geese

BY L. D. CHAPMAN.

states. As the snow disappears from their
northern nesting grounds, the migratory
instinct warns them that it is time for them to
commence their ﬂight north, and they travel
in the picturesque V—shaped manner, with an
old gander always leading the way.

The ﬂight to the northward is usually the
most leisurely, as the birds are thin and make
their way slowly as the spring opens up.

When protecting their young or nests, wild
geese are exceedingly vicious and can inﬂict
a very painful blow with their wings, but at
other times they will take immediate ﬂight
at the first approach of man. The diet of wild
geese is a varied one, comprising various
grains and fish, as well as all sorts of vegetation.

They are among the’cleanest of all birds,
and one curious characteristic that has been
noted and much commented on is that in
their wild state, as well as in the domesticated,
all grass roots that are pulled up are carefully

washed before being eaten. In that respect,
more than any other, geese differ greatly from,

all other wild fowl.
(From Oar Dinah Animals.)

The Canada Goose.

The geese is usually regarded as the nzodel 0f foolishness,
hat the Canada Goose is so intelligent and wily that many
hinnans won/d appear foolish in comparison with him;
in his deniestie li e he is a splendid inedelfer all humans.

(Harper C0732, F.C.G..S‘., in “ Leeahle Beasts.”)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

March, 1939

' Sir Edwin Arnold (1832-1904)

BY BASIL HARVEY—JAMES.

which abound in expressions of his

deep love of animals and sympathy
with them, are to be found “ The Great
Journey” and “The Adulteress.” In the
former occurs the splendid passage in which
King Yudishthira steadfastly refuses the
proffered joys of heaven, unless he may be
accompanied there by his hound.

g. MON G the poems of Sir Edwin Arnold,

“Monarch,” spake Indra, “ thou art now
as we, ,

Deathless, divine ; thou art become a god ;

Glory and power and gifts celestial,

And all the joys of heaven are thine for aye

What hath a beast with these? Leave here
thy hound! ” .

Yet Yudishthira answered : “ 0 Most High

0 thousand—eyed and Wisest! can it be

That one exalted should seem pitiless?

Nay let me lose such glory : for its sake

I would not leave one living thing I loved.”

The theme of “ The Adulteress ” is that a
woman having been “ taken in adultery ” is
being led forth to be stoned, the authorised
Eastern punishment for this offence. On her
way she comes across a dog by a wellside
who cannot reach to drink of the water.
Thereon, for all her shame and suffering,
she takes off her shoe and makes it a cup for
the dog to drink out of. Witnessing her
compassion for the misery of the animal,
the King is moved with compassion for her,
and forthwith pardons her.

High noon it was, and the hot Kharnseen’s hreath

Blewfrorn the desert sands and parched the town.

The ero ws gasped, and the kine went np and down

With lolling tongnes ; the earnels inoaned ; a erowd

Passed with their pitehers, wrangling high and
load

Ahont the tank ; and one dog [3)! a well

N igh dead with thirst, leg! where he yelped and fell,

Glaring npon the water oat of reaeh,

Andpreg/ing sneeonr in a silent speech,

So piteons were his eyes. Whieh, when she saw

This woman fro/n her foot her shoe did draw,

Alheit death—sorrowfnl ; and looping up

The long sil/é of her girdle, made a rap

Of the heel ’s hollow; and thns let it sink

152

Until it reached the'eool hlae/é water’s hrinlé;

5 0 filled the ’ernhroidered shoe, and gate a dranght

To the spent heast, whieh whined and fawned and
ere/9‘64

Her kind gift to the dregs; then, at her. feet

He followed elose all down the ernel street,

Her one friend in that rig.

Bnt the King,

Riding within his litter, marked this thing,

And how the woman on her way to die,

Had sneh eornpassion for the inisery

Of that parehed honnd : “ Take off her ehain, and
plaee

The Z’é’l/ onee inore ahooe the sinner’sfaee,

And lead her to her honse in peaee ! ” he said,

“ The law is that the people stone thee dead,

F or that whieh thon hast wronght; hat there is
eorne

Fawning aronnd thy feet, a witness diinih,

IVot—heard npon thy trail ; this hrnte heast

Testifies for thee, sister! whose wen/é hreast

Death eon/d not make nngentle. I hold ride

In Allah’s stead, who is the Mereifnl,

And hope for Alergy; therefore go then free——

I dare not show less pity nnto thee.”

Edwin Arnold’s greatest work however
is “The Light of Asia” (1879), the verse
confession of faith of a European convert to

Buddhism.

From the “Light of Asia” come those
memorable lines :—

Knon'ledge grows and Life is One,
And Merg eorneth to the rnereifnl.

I have endeavoured as far as possible to
make my survey of the world’s modern
zoophilists as comprehensive and as repre—
sentative as possible. My own limitations
of scholarship and means of research have,
however, made me write mainly on English—
speaking authors, and what “foreigners”
I have been able to include have been with
two exceptions Northern Europeans. While,
however (up to date), I have only written a
complete essay on one Asiatic (Toru Dutt),
I have given sketches of two European
thinkers who have derived their inspiration

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

M arc/z, I 939

mainly from‘ Oriental sources—Arthur
Schopenhauer and Edwin Arnold, the subject
of this short monograph. The resemblance
between the verse of Toru Dutt and Edwin
Arnold is not inconsiderable, especially as
exempliﬁed in the former’s “ Ascetic and the
Hind ” and the latter’s “ Adulteress,” quoted
above.

If I seem to have tended to ignore the East in
my animal articles, it is not that I am completely
unaware of the intense zoophilism of the East,
still less that I underrate it. I know that the
“ Ahimsa ” principle of refraining from taking
life in any form—human or sub—human—has a
great tradition in the East. _ But I feel that
just as Mrs. Reid has taken the great Christian
zoophilist saints as Iver subject—matter and very
ably portrayed them, as I have 'taken the more
modern \Western zoophilists as mine, it is
really “ up to ” a third contributor “ to hold
the gorgeous East in fee ” and let me return
conscientiously to that Occident, whose
thought I know better—though by no means
well.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

Phjto by] [ fames Ham pson

Science and Animal Welfare

By C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.
PART II.

UMANITARIANS have given a good
H deal of attention to the devising
of humane means for destroying un—
wanted cats and dogs. That this prob—
lem is not a small one can be seen from
the fact that substantially more than a hun—
dred thousand unwanted animals are des—
troyed every year. Further, a committee
of the National Veterinary Medical Association,
on which men of the highest distinction in
their profession were kind enough to serve,
recently devoted two years to careful study
of the subject. Time does not permit me
to go into details of the Committee’s report;
I will only. say that it is a most valuable
contribution by men of science to the cause
of animal welfare, and pass on to a topic
with which it does not deal quite satisfactorily.
In recent years the use of electrocution has
become increasingly common. Now a very
important series of researches has been carried
out in America for the purpose of ascertaining
the cause of death in cases of electric shock,

153

and incidentally they enable us to tell when
electrocution is humane and when it is cruel.
The results of these researches are so con-
clusive that we must feel bound to accept
them. Unfortunately, having appeared in an
engineering journal and being scarcely in-
telligible to anybody but an electrical engineer
or a physicist, they have been almost entirely
ignored both by veterinary surgeons and by
lay humanitarians. These researches have
shown that electrocution may be either
humane or extremely cruel according to the
current-strength or amperage, and it must
be remembered that, with any given electrocu—
tion apparatus, the amperage will vary from
animal to animal according to the state of the
coat and other conditions affecting contact
resistance. If the amperage is sufﬁciently
high, death is caused by stoppage of the
circulation as a result of ventricular fibrilla—
tion ; in this case we may probably assume that
death was humanely caused. If, on the other

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

> , »"_;::.;, ' L; —'

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

hand, the amperage falls below the required
minimum, the animal,is merely thrown into
a state of cramp or tetanization, in which it
can neither move nor scream, and it dies
eventually from suffocation. The only way
to tell whether the electrocution apparatus is
killing by the one mode or the other is to have
an ammeter in circuit with the animal, and to
note whether the ammeter readings exceed
the prescribed minimum. This, for a medium
sized dog, should not be less than a quarter
of an ampere. The electrocution apparatus
at present in use in various places in this
country never has an ammeter ﬁtted to it.
Nobody can say what current is used, or
whether the animals are being humanely
killed or tortured to death. Incredible as it
may seem, all. efforts to persuade the users
of this apparatus to insist on the fitting of
ammeters have completely failed. The scien—
tific knowledge is there ready for use, but it
has been impossible to get it across to the lay
public.

It is not generally realised by townsmen
that many millions of operations are performed
upon farm animals every year without anaes—
thetics, and that the Animal Anaesthetics
Act of 1919 does not apply to sheep or swine.
Further, the schedules appended to that Act
badly need revision, since some of the opera—
tions scheduled for the use of a general
anaesthetic can now be more humanely
carried out by means of a local anaesthetic.
The revision of the schedules could be carried
out by Order in Council, no new legislation
being necessary for the purpose; and this is a
question which UFAW/ hopes to take up
in the future. There is, however, a large
class of operations which at present are not,
and for reasons of economy are not likely
to be, carried out under anaesthetics. The most
important of these are the neutering of male
farm animals and the tailing of lambs. The
practice of cutting out the ovaries from sows,
which has always been done without an anaes—
thetic and by unskilled practitioners, does not
now appear to be general, though it was
certainly practised some years ago and probably
still is practised in some districts.

The problem of neutering male animals is an
economic one. It is usually carried out by
unqualiﬁed practitioners—farm hands and
shepherds—and it may be doubted whether
such practitioners could effectively use an
anaesthetic even if the farmer could afford to
pay for it. An instrument known as the Bur-«

154

Marc/1, I939

dizzo Castrator has been introduced for cattle
and sheep, but is impracticable for swine.
\While its use must be attended by some pain,
it marks a distinct improvement on the knife.
For various reasons, however, it has not
come into very general use. If we look to
the more remote future, in which we may hope
that the community will be wealthy enough
to be just, if not generous towards its animal
members, we may allow ourselves to speculate
on the possibility of using X-ray treatment
instead of an operation. It is known that a
moderate dose of X—rays will produce tempor—
ary sterilization, though only when the dose
approaches the erythemal value is permanent
sterility produced so far as is at present known.
However, we haVe yet to learn whether X—ray
treatment will produce the incidental effects
which are desired in connection with castra—
tion, and in any event the cost of X—ray
apparatus at the present time, and the difﬁculty
of organising a service and assuring the safety
of the operator precludes us from contem—
plating any early introduction of the method.
Nevertheless it is a direction in which the
progress of applied science may eventually
come to the aid of animals, by rendering
unnecessary the inﬂiction of a very large
aggregate of pain every year. '

One of the most beneficient contributions
which applied science has recently made to the
cause of humaneness, has lain in the production
of calcium cyanide for the destruction of
unwanted rabbits and rats. UFAW has
published so much on the subject of trapping,
which exists mainly in connection with the~
rabbit—trapping industry, that I need not
enlarge. upon the cruelty involved. I Will
only say that if the rabbit—trapping industry
could be abolished in this country, nine—
tenths of the suffering endured by animals
would go with it. Our “noble Chairman
has recently introduced a Bill which ought,
if it passes successfully into law and is duly
administered by the appropriate authorities,
to go far towards the suppression of this most
harmful and mostbarbarous industry. In
any event, an efficient means of destroying
rabbits is needed, for rabbits must from an
agricultural point of view be regarded as a
pest, and not as farm stock or as an asset to the
land—~unless perhaps, in small numbers,
one to an acre or two, for the advantage of the
local farm hands and poachers. Now in
calcium cyanide the chemists have supplied
us with means for destroying rabbits and rats

 

 




 

 

Marc/1, 1939

which not only is immeasurably more efficient
than any other means previously invented
but also is perfectly humane. Such a com—
bination of qualities in a commercial product is
rare, but we may fairly claim it for Cyanogas,
Calcid and Cymag. In the destruction of
rabbits and rats cyanide dust is blown into
the holes inhabited by these animals, and,
unlike sulphur fumigants, for some hours
afterwards it continues to give off hydrocyanic

acid gas. ‘A small COncentration of this gas.

has no effect, but as soon as symptoms begin
to appear death follows rapidly and painlessly.
An animal which has received a dose that has

.not proved fatal quickly and completely

Thus

recovers on reaching the open air.

cyanide fumigation is entirely free from the

strong objection which lies on humane grounds
against sulphur fumigation. When a sulphur
candle is burned and sulphur dioxide is pumped
into' a rabbit hole, any animal which gets a
mild, dose contracts. inﬂammation of the
lungs and dies a rather hOrrible death, similar
to that inﬂicted by the chlorine which was
used in the earlier ~German gas attacks.
There has been so much misunderstanding
on this subject that at the expense of repetition
I should like to make the position very clear.
The position is that cyanide dust has two
great advantages over the sulphur fumigants.
As regards efficiency it goes on emitting the
poisonous gas for several hours, so as to
replace the gas lost by diffusion through
porous soil or open holes. As regards
humaneness the gas produced kills quickly
and painlessly, and a weak dose of it leaves
no afteneffects ; sulphur dioxide, on the other
hand, produces excessively inhumane after—
effects on those animals which it fails to kill
at once.

I wish to conclude this address with an
appeal to chemists to solve a difﬁcult problem
which has hitherto received scanty attention.
For destroying harmful wild animals—prin—
cipally rodents in this country and coyotes
in the United States and Canada—it is a
common practice to use edible poisons.
It happens that the available poisons, with
the possible but uncertain exception of red
squill, kill in an excessively painful way, and
those which may legally be used in this country
under the Poisons Rules take a very long
time to kill—anything from three to six
days. Professor J. G. Wright, in a lecture
which has been published by UFAW, has

discussed the effects of various poisons,

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

and has hinted at the possibility of devising
a humane substitute. Unfortunately‘he ﬁnds
that the available narcotics, even if they were
not so costly, would be unsuitable partly
because they would have to be taken in very
large doses to be fatal, and partly because
some of them—those based on chloral hydrate
for instance—have a particularly nauseating
taste. Professor Wright has suggested a
line of investigation which nobody hitherto
seems to have followed up. This suggestion
is that a combination of certain of the known
poisons with narcotics might have the advan—
tage that the toxic action of the former on
the liver would increase the narcotic action
of the latter. The combined action might
prove to be a cumulative one, the aim being
that narcosis should supervene while the more
potent poison is exercising its destructive
action.

I should like to make an appeal to chemists
to devote to this problem some small share
of their efforts which have produced such
extraordinary results for the advantage of
human beings. Whereas electrical and
mechanical inventions are nowadays mere
improvements on previously known devices,
in chemistry and biology revolutionary dis—
coveries and genuinely novel developments.
are still possible. Will not some chemist
take up this problem of devising a humane
and effective edible poison and bring to bear-
upon it the same enthusiasm and skill that
has given us dynamite, insulin and nembutal?

Is there any sufficient reason why science
should not spare a little of its attention
specifically for the advantage of animals?
What reason can be advanced? Is it that
animals have no votes? Science is above the

» petty wire—pulling of political partisanship.

Is it that they have no money? If money—
making were the object of the research
worker, most of the university laboratories
would long have been out of business. Is
it because animals are not so intelligent as
ourselves? That only increases their need
for our help. Is it that animals are less lovable,
than human beings? Anybody who general—
ises in such a sense, must surely have looked
at the human history through rose-tinted
spectacles. At all events, UFAW appeals
to scientiﬁc men in our universities to be
generous enough to devote some part of their
thought and effort to means for diminishing
the hardships to which animals are subjected,
in their contacts with human civilisation.

 

 

 

 

 

15 5

 

 

'_'".~_-::?t. .— >~ #1 77.17:”

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

  
 
 
 

WHEN Spring came a fortnight behind
schedule and June arrived colder and
wetter than January; when storm after
storm washed away all our hopes of anything
like a typical English summer, and farmers
were cutting their first hay in August while
oats and wheat stood rain—sodden in the fields
what time city churches held their harvest
festivals, town and country wondered what
had gone wrong with 19 36. The strange box
of tricks Nature presented us in the weather
that year will go down in history: it will be
remembered as the wettest ever experienced.

Surely such strange weather put the country-
side calendar out of pace? It did, but it
was not all for the worse. Things that
suffered for the worse included the hay harvest,
the worst in living memory. The cutting
was late enough and thin enough, but not
until the last fortnight in August did most
farmers ﬁnd weather good enough for carting.
Much of it was so beaten by the rains as it
lay in cocks in the fields that it was not worth
carrying, and farmers merely ploughed it in.
Farmers and gardeners had to contend with the
greatest crop of weeds imaginable: the farms
I walked over in my daily rambles were so
choked with fumitory, persicaria, mayweed,
chickweed, ragwort and other weeds in late
summer that fields of peas, potatoes and tur—
nips were hidden by the growth. The con-
stant damp weather made mildew and other
fungus diseases rampant: harldy a farmer
escaped potato blight, but on the other hand,
the epicure found the autumn mushrooms
more plentiful than for many a year and I
measured specimens of the edible boletus
3 inches across the bun—like cap.

The harvest of 1936 was fair to good,
excepting the bad hay crop. Barley did better
and spring oats yielded fairly well in the North.
Fruit crops were very good; apples were so

March, I 939

\ «<— Wild Life in Britain

A YEAR’s RECORDS.

BY ERIC HARDY, F.Z.S.

1726 [Wind and the Ram and W/Iyd/ if [lid 2‘0 #26 Harvest, fbe Birds

and ﬂag Flay/em of 1956.

overcrowded that the cider orchards of the
South had to thin much of the young crop
early on, while in the Market Drayton district,
famous for its fairs, the damson crops were
declared the biggest seen for twenty years.
Peas, carrots, onions, and beans did well
in garden and farm alike, but everywhere
there was an extraordinary shortage of early
spring greens——the housewife knew because
of the price she had to pay for her “ second
vegetables ”—the bad winter having killed
off most of the spring cabbage. I lost all I
had except those in the frames.

Wild Nature, however, made many records
during the year, the most important being the
addition of three new birds to the British list,
bringing the total of British forms to 517,
and the adding of another ﬂower to our ﬂora.

On January 7th an American sea-bird,
Audubon’s Little Shearwater, was found alive
on the beach at Bexhill—on—Sea but later it
died, probably having been storm—bound
from its West Indies home. On the 19th
another new bird, the American Franklin’s
Gull, was watched with a ﬂock of other gulls
on the Exmouth beach of Devon. Other
rare visitors amongst the birds included a
white—tailed or sea—eagle at Milton Park,
Peterborough in February, another at Dart—
moor in March, and a third in Breconshire
in April. The hoopoe turned up in Lincoln—
shire and the South—East while four avocets,
ringed on the Rhone delta, were shot in Essex.
The first British specimen of the Booted
Warbler of Siberia, etc., was taken at Fair
Isle, North Scotland, on September 5rd after
a moderate South East wind.

During the nesting season, crossbills, rare
pinewood birds that had “invaded ” the
country from North Europe the previous
year, nested in Devon, Surrey (at Kew
gardens), Kent, Sussex, Hants, Wiltshire,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

156

 

 




 

 

 

 

M arc/z, 1939

Norfolk and SuFfolk. The goosander nested
in Dumfries. Clutches of eggs seemed re—
markably large this year. I found a partridge
nest with 22 eggs in Lancashire; a blackbird
with 9 eggs (a record) was reported in Bed—
fordshire, and many lapwings had 5 eggs,
while at Port St. Mary, Isle of Man, occurred
the first known record of a mistlethrush
laying seven eggs. On Romney Marsh, a
coot had 13 eggs. In May I found the first
nest of oyster—catchers ever recorded in
Cheshire—beside the Manchester Ship Canal.

The marking of wild birds with rings
provided a fascinating list of records of migra—
tion and travel. Sandwich terns ringed at
Ravenglass bird sanctuary (Cumberland),
Northern Ireland and in Norfolk were found
on the Gold Coast and in Portuguese \West
Africa. A young kittiwake gull Mrs. Hodgkin
ringed last summer on the Farne Isles sanctuary
off Northumberland turned up this year at
Bredifjord, West Iceland, and a Sandwich
tern she marked at the same time turned up
this year at Porto Amboim, Portuguese West
Africa. Three swallows ringed in England
last summer were found in South Africa
this year; one ringed as a nestling at Lang—
wathby, Cumberland, turned up at East
London, another from Bluntisham, Hunting—
donshire was recovered at Ladybrand, and a
third from East Norton, Leicestershire, arrived
at Bethlehem, South Africa.

A number of teal (the smallest of our wild
duck) ringed on the Orielton duck decoy,
Pembrokeshire, South \X’ales, were found this
year in Norway, Denmark, France, Holland,
Belgium and the Irish Free State—the numbers
on their rings proved they were the same birds.
A wigeon duck ringed at Leswalt, W’igtown, on
February 2 5th, 1936, was recovered at Lenin—
grad, Russia, on May 10th, 1936. Gannets—
great white diving sea—birds ringed on Grass—
holme Island, Cardigan Bay, turned up in
Germany, France, Portugal and Spain. A
full—grown starling ringed at York on February
5th, 1936, was found at Harstad, Norway, on
May 12th, and one marked in Cheshire on
January 16th, 1936, in Denmark on April 20th.
A \W/Iorcestershire chafﬁnch turned up in
Norway, and a Malvern linnet in France. A
Cumberland pied wagtail was remarked in
Portugal, and a Pembrokeshire meadow-
pipit in Spain. .

The summer birds on the whole arrived
late in England, while the swifts left us earlier
than usual. However, there were exceptions
for a whinchat arrived at Ashdown Forest,

157

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Sussex, on March 18th, and some summer
birds even spent the winter in the country, as a
blackcap warbler found at Brent Knoll,
Somerset, on January 5th, and others seen in
Sussex and Herefordshire. The mild winter
at the end of the year saw great numbers of
wild duck: there was an unusually large
autumn passage of little sturts, and more
sistins than usual in North England in the
winter.

London saw no small amount of the Nature
news of 1936. On April 25th, the nightingale
was singing near the Peter Pan Statue in
Kensington Gardens—the only other nightin—
gale record for inner London in the last
twenty years was a visitor to the Zoo in 1928.
The crossbills nested in Kew Gardens : the last
time these brilliantly crimson ﬁnches with
curious, pincer—like crossed beaks (hence
their name) nested in the London area was at
Muswell Hill in 1866. On July 7th, the rare
nutcracker crow was seen at Kew Green;
in March there were bramblings on Primrose
Hill; in July a nightjar’s nightly “jarring ”
song in a famous city square of grass and
trees caused a mild sensation. My London
area studies were concentrated on the Highgate
district, and in Waterlow Park I estimated a
summer bird population of 585 birds of 22
species, including a pair of tufted ducks,
others of chiffchaffs and carrion—crows, and
two pairs of spotted ﬂycatchers. On Parlia—
ment Hill Fields I found 694 birds of sixteen
species. In Ken Wood I found magpies,
cole tits, carrion-crows, jays and two pairs of
spotted woodpeckers nesting.~ Goosanders
summered on Clapham Common ponds,
even learning to take bread from visitors.

(T0 he 6‘07ﬂ‘lﬂd’6d).

 

Photo by]

[Eric Hardy

.S'lye/dm/é in [Winter.

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Marc/1, I939

The National Council for Animals’ Welfare

H072. Organising Searez‘my: J. L. CATHER.

Bournemouth and

HE Nation—
, I al Organ—

iser writes
she is having a
busy time in many
towns. Miss
Clair Hickman of
The \Word House,
Tettenhall, Wol—
verhampton, has
been appointed
Hon. Secretary
for \Wolverhampton. She succeeds Mrs. God—
frey to whom we offer our warmest thanks
for her work on behalf of Animals’ \Welfare
Week in that town during the last two years.
On January 20th, Miss Barrs addressed the
Bournemouth Lodge of the Theosophical
Society and dealt with some aspects of animal
exploitation. The following Tuesday she
attended a meeting at the Civic Hall, Southamp—
ton which the Hon. Secretary, Mr. W. \Vinde—
bank, had organised as the first meeting in
connection with the 1959 WEEK. His
Worship the Mayor presided, and Miss Barrs
and Captain Hillier (R.S.P.C.A. Regional Or—
ganiser) were the speakers. There was a good
attendance and after the discussion officers
and committees were elected for the 1959
Animals’ Welfare Week. On January 25th,
Miss Barrs returned to Bournemouth, and
was present at the first meeting for the 1959
WEEK in that town. The meeting was held
at the Bournemouth Branch Headquarters
of the R.S.P.C.A., and in spite of the cold and
snow there was a good attendance. The
Mayor (Councillor l. W. Dickinson), has
consented to be President. Mrs. Wallis
Power was again elected Chairman of Com—
mittee, Miss D. Tazewell and Miss L. Bell
were elected Joint Hon. Secretaries, and
Dr. Vivien consented to be hon. Treasurer
for the second time. An expression of great
appreciation of the work achieved last year
was unanimously conﬁrmed, particularly in
relation to the co—operation of the churches
and the schools. Miss Barrs spoke brieﬂy
on the general work that is being done for
the welfare of animals, and on the need for the

Wolverhampton,
Southampton.

 

continuance of the WEEK each year if its
results were to be of lasting value.

The Isle of Wight.

The Isle of Wight next received a visit
from Miss Barrs. She visited the Hon.
Secretary and a few Committee members at
Ventnor and discussed the progress of the
WEEK. Ventnor is to be congratulated
on being the only town in the Island to carry on
the second year’s \X/EEK with the same
officials and members of Committee. Mrs.
Vernon Aldridge, as Hon. Secretary is keenly
interested in the work of the National Council,
and we send her and the members of Committee
our sincere thanks for their continued efforts
in the cause of animal welfare. It was with
great regret we learnt during the year that the
Hon. Secretaries for Ryde and Cowes had left
the Island and that the Hon. Secretary for
Newport had resigned. Miss Barrs was fortunate
in forming a new group of workers in Cowes,
namely the Rev. C. E. Paterson, Mrs. Haigh,
Mr. and Mrs. Batty and Miss Maureen Davies
whilst for Newport she has been able to secure
the service of Mr. W. J. Berry as Hon. Or—

ganiser and Secretary. He will be assisted by.

the Hon. Secretary of the Newport Auxiliary
R.S.P.C.A., Mrs. Davies, and the Island is now
busily engaged in formulating schemes for the
WEEK.

Lincoln.

The inaugural Meeting for Lincoln was
held in the Guildhall on February 8th. His.
Worship the Mayor (Councillor Herbert
Willcock, J..P) presided, and Miss Dorothy
Barrs gave an address on the work and ideals
of the National Council. The following
organisations were represented at this meeting :
Education Committee, Head Teachers’ Associa—
tion, National Union of Teachers (Lincoln and
District Branches), Boy Scouts’ Association,
Girl Guides Association, Mid—Lincolnshire
Branch and Lincoln Auxiliary, R.S.P.C.A.,
Toc H. (Lindum Branch), Toc H. (H.L.W.H.),
Unitarian Church, Methodist Church, Sunday
School Union, Y.M.C.A., Christian Endeavour
Union, Temperance Mission, Men’s and
Women’s Co—operative Guilds, Peace Pledge
Union. The Mayor was elected President,

158

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

M arc/1, 1939

a number of Vice—presidents were elected
representing the civic, educational, religious
and social activities in the City. Miss Evelyn
Peel and Miss Marjorie Drury were elected
Joint Hon. Secretaries. It was a very success—
ful and well attended meeting. A discussion
on fox hunting was aroused by one member
of the audience expressing the hope that this
new committee was not the thin end of the
wedge in putting forward anti—hunting prop—
aganda, etc. After several similar questions
this gentleman proposed the following Resolu-
tion. “ That a Committee be formed in
Lincoln for the purpose of organising Animals’
Welfare \Week.” This was seconded by Miss
Peel and carried unanimously. A vote of
thanks to the Mayor for presiding, and to
Miss Barrs for her address was proposed
by the Rev. W. E. Farndale (representing the
Methodist Church) and seconded by Councillor
J. Curling (representing the Education Com—
mittee). '

After this meeting the National Organiser
went for a day’s rest to the coast, but the
day proved anything but restful; by nightfall
an hon. secretary had been found both for
Cleethorpe and Grimsby. Miss Barrs hopes to
return to these towns in March to complete
arrangements for forming new Committees
for Animals’ Welfare Week.

We send our very warmest greetings
and good wishes to the new branches, and to
those branches now in full swing for the
1939 activities. .

Newcastle and Rochdale.

Finally, for this month’s report of the
National Organiser’s activities, she has been
invited to attend the ﬁrst meeting for the
1939 Newcastle WEEK at the Town Hall.
The Lord Mayor has consented to be President
and will take the Chair.

Miss Barrs writes that in her travels up
and down the country she realises more and
more fully the need for, and value of, co—
ordination not only amongst humanitarian
Societies but with all those seeking to solve
the many world problems existing today, as well
as the educational and religious bodies.
One small episode occurred in Newcastle
as a result of this co~ordination, and through
linking up with the Peace Pledge Union,
Mrs. Frances Hue, her hostess, and a member
of the B.U.A.V., was invited to address
a Young People’s Guild who needed enlighten—

ment on Vivisection.

159

Copyright photo]

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ PRAYER.
Dear Man, dear Wornan and dear Cloila',

W/lyo own eaely creature, tarne or wild,

To you we make our prayer; ’
You are so clever and so wise,

Don’t pass by our beseee/n'ng eyes

As if you a'ia’n’t care.

In wary! ways we work for you,

We feed you, olotlze you, guara’ you too,
You say it is our duty,

We drag your cart, we draw your plougli,
We sing to you from bush and boug/i,
And please you wit/7 our beauty.

And in return tbis Inuelz we pray——
Haoe merry as you go your way),
And little tlJings defend,
Be gentle, pitiful and kind,
So tliat in ebila’ and man we find
A true and faithful friena’.
ENID BLYTON.

 

[D. ]. Brooks

Return to the Rookery.

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Library Table

My Monkey Friends.
E. B. Russell.
the author.

Told by Mrs. Charles
With 26 photographs by
Arrowsmith. gs. 6d.

Two things strike one particularly about
this book: ﬁrst, Mrs. Russell’s amazing
temerity in journeying hundreds of miles
with a “monkey friend” .in her care, and
secondly her capacity for close kinship with
these creatures who though in many ways
so uncannily human are yet—as she reminds
us—essentially “wild” animals. For this
reason she does not advocate the keeping of
monkeys as “pets ” and none of the many
whom she has known and loved have been
deliberately acquired by her merely for the
sake of acquiring them. Most have come to
her during her work in Dr. Schweitzer’s
mission hospital at Lamborene in Africa,
where monkeys wounded by hunters or whose
mothers have been killed, are frequently
brought for healing and adoption. Therefore
it is to that great man—

“ who teaches reverence for life, and has

saved many a little orphan, human and

sub-human, from misery and destruction.”

that the book is dedicated.

All the stories are full of interest, but to
one—about “ Upsi ” the present reviewer
was particularly attracted, by reason of the
fact that it once fell to her lot to entertain that
intriguing gentleman for a few days during a
sojourn of his mistress in London. And it
was through him she discovered by direct
personal experience, what a barrier is created
between human and sub—human, despite the
best will in the world to bridge it—through
ignorance and the blunderings that ignorance
invOlves. For Upsi was large and unfamiliar
in his habits and his reactions.

He did not understand us and we did not
understand him, and the time we were together
was not long enough for any real rapproch-
ment to take place. It is good to read in this
book of his subsequent return to his native
haunts in Lamborene and of his release,
and it is strange to contemplate that somewhere
in the virgin forests of distant Africa, swinging
with his long arms from tree to tree and chatter-
ing to his kinsfolk, is a monkey who once sat
on the wall of a suburban garden and was
taken out on a Sunday morning for a walk,
at the end of a long chain, through the sedate

160

Marc/1, 1939

roads of Hampstead. If he could read this
review, we would ask him now to accept our
apologies for the offences, due to misunder-
standing, which we unwittingly once com—
mitted against him. .

Mrs. Russell’s advice to those who wish to
establish friendship with a monkey is: “ to
keep calm, be patient, never laugh at them
only with them, give them the understanding
love they demand,” and she urges the special
necessity for this because they are “of all
animals the most sensitive and emotional.”
How to attain such an attitude is illustrated
in her book, and everyone who is called upon to
care for a monkey should read and study it.
You may then receive a rich reward—that
this little brother of Man, with his sad dark
eyes with their mute appeal as of a soul
imprisoned in a furry body, will “nestle
under your chin in perfect confidence and
make you realise that even the love of a monkey
is a manifestation of the all—embracing love
of God.”

A. L. H.

Things New and Old. By E. Dingwall.
With 21 half-tone plates. C. \V. Daniel
Co.,Ltd. 53.

This book is an attempt to put before the
public in essay, story and narrative form,
the author’s views on paciﬁsm. Unfortunately
the very delicacy and simplicity of its touch
and the directness of its propaganda are not
likely to appeal to the general public which
likes its pills better disguised.

To those already converted the book will be
delightful reading and perchance those pacifists
who have not yet extended their belief to the
animal kingdom will gain a broader outlook
by reading the chapters on Vivisection,
Vegetarianism, etc.

The chapters on travel in the three Scandina—
vian countries will appeal to those who like
such descriptions. From our point of view
we should have liked a little more information 7
about the treatment of animals by these peace—
loving people who seem to have gone a long
way in solving the problem of peace between
human beings in their own country. Certainly
all the animals mentioned, with the exception
of the sheep led to slaughter, seem to be happy
animals, yet one remembers that Denmark
is probably the originator of that horrible
system of intensive egg culture, the battery
system.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

M are/z, I939

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The National SOciety for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Seerez‘mg/ : BERTRAM LLOYD, 56, Bloomsbury Street, London, W.C.I.

Annual General Meeting.

HE Annual General Meeting of the

Society will be held at 7.15 pm. on

Thursday, March 16th, at the hall of the
Artworkers’ Guild, Queen Square, London,
W.C.1. Queen’s square is quickly reached
by way of Cosmo Place, leading out of
Southampton. Row. Holborn is the nearest
Underground Station, and buses 44, 68, I69
and 77 stop near Cosmo Place. The business
meeting will be followed by a lantern lecture
by Mr. Arthur R. Thompson, F.L.S., on
“ The Wild Life of Britain.”

Deer-hunting in the New Forest.

The hunting of wild deer by the New Forest
Buckhounds (described in the Society’s pam—
phlet, Tbe Hunting of the Stag, by Edith Ward),
being much less spectacular than the hunting
of the Red Deer of Exmoor, has been subjected
to far less attack by humanitarians. It is
therefore a most encouraging sign of the times
that on January 215t last, a powerful letter of
protest appeared in The Ham? Advertiser,
from Mr. C. Dear, on the occasion of a special
Children’s Meet when a buck, which was
afterwards killed, was hunted through the
village street of Burley. Mr. Dear, a resident
with forty years experience of the New Forest,
was formerly a follower of the Buck—hounds,
but relinquished the pastime long ago on the
score of its cruelty. The Editor prefaced this
letter by an admirable note that he would
print the views of both sides with the strictest
impartiality. The protest evoked a' defence
of the Buck—hounds by the Master of the Hunt
and the Local Secretary of the British Field
Sports Society. The latter, after angrily
advising his opponents to leave alone an
“ old—established and decently conducted
sport,” and turn their attention to the sufferings
of chained dogs, slaughter house reform, etc.,
makes the following amazing statement :

After a long experience of deer—hunting, it is
my considered opinion that a hunted deer is not
terriﬁed. Intensive study of the habits of creatures
of the wilds has taught me that their overwhelming
self-conﬁdence obliterates any feeling of fear.

Several of our members took part in this
correspondence, among them being Miss
Edith Ward,'a member of our Counc1l, Miss

161

G. V. McFadden of Bournemouth, a dis—
tinguished novelist, and Mr. E. Windebank
of Southampton. An admirable letter signed
by Mrs. Stott, on behalf of the N.C.A.\W.,
stressed the bad effects of hunting on children
who are encouraged to attend meets.

A New Anti-Sport Society.

For years past there has been a growing
public agitation against the disgrace of the
\Waterloo Cup, the Blue Riband of the hare—
coursing world. We are glad to record that
this has culminated in the formation of a new
Society, the inﬂuentially supported Prohibition
of Coursing Committee, which is fortunate
in having for its Honorary Secretary, Miss
R. B. Johnston. Several Members of Parlia—
ment have already given their support. A
crowded protest meeting was held in Liverpool
on February 7th, on the eve of the Waterloo
Cup, when the following resolution, proposed
by Mr. Alexander Critchley, MP. for Edge
Hill, was passed unanimously.

That this meeting denounces as cruel and degrad-
ing the organised sport of coursing live hares,
and that with a View to its suppression appeals to
our local legislators to introduce legislation
as soon as possible.

Nothing has been more noticeable in the
whole animal protection movement than the
rapid growth of public feeling against blood—
sports during the last few years, and this is
naturally mirrored in the correspondence
and even in the leading articles of the Press.
Hence the more anti-sport Societies that are
founded—each working along different lines
and appealing to somewhat different sections
of the public—the brighter is the outlook for
our cause. \We look forward to that not too
distant future when every town of any size
will have its own Society or branch attacking
cruel sports, and every session of Parliament
its Bill for the abolition of some part of least of
this form of animal exploitation.

We wish the new and active Prohibition
of Coursing Committee success in its endea—
vours to achieve the abolition of one of the
nastiest of all blood—sports, the one indeed
which is the nearest lineal descendant of the
good old sports of bull— and badger—baiting.

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Marc/1, I939

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

H072. Same/2‘40: MISS N. IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

How I Conquered Bright’s Disease.
T was in 1916 that I was discharged from
I the Army as “ being no longer physically

fit for war service.” For a year previous
to that I had been carried from hospital to
hospital from SheHield in the Midlands to
Llandrindod Wells, Newport (Mon.) and
Abergavenny in the West. No less than
thirty—seven doctors examined me and without
exception they were correctly agreed that I
was suffering from nephritis or Bright’s
disease.

I had all the symptons of the disease. I
had fearful headaches and backaches. Nausea
was constantly with me. Weakness, debility
and lack of concentration were so pernicious
that I did not care much what happened to me.
There was swelling all over my body and my
feet and hands, neck and eyes were so puffed
up that I could hardly use my limbs. And
ﬁnally there was a constant twenty—five to
thirty per cent. of albumin with a trace of
blood in my urine.

At ﬁrst I did not know what was the matter
with me so secretive were the doctors and
nurses. I was dieted on ﬁsh, eggs, and milk.
I received much electrical treatment—ob-
viously experimental as Was told me later.
But the treatment depended on medicine.
I had iron in huge quantities, so huge that my
teeth were rotted in six months and twelve
of them had to be extracted while under
treatment. Daily two kinds of medicine were
given me in one hospital; another different
kind in another; two other kinds in the next
hospital. In short, in the four hospitals
I was admitted to, I received no less than ten
different kinds of medicines, iron being the
chief element in all. Chills came upon chills,
swelling was added to swelling, pain to pain,
and as night followed night so followed agonies
of backaches and headaches and nausea.

After a year of obviously experimental
treatments I was one morning taken before a
medical board of five doctors. They told me
that my case was a very serious one, and that as
far as medical science went there was nothing
further they could do for me. They had tried
to cure me, but I was incurable. I was to be
discharged from the Army and from the
hospital as soon as my papers came through.

In a few weeks I received my discharge papers
and it was with great difficulty that I was able
to make the journey from the hospital home.
But on that journey I determined to be my
own doctor; to ﬁnish with drugs and
chemicals ; to try Nature’s way; to diet myself
rigidly; to rest properly; to keep myself
normal.

Within three months of my discharge from the
Army all the swellings had gone, there were no
pains in my head or back, the albumin was negli-
gible. I could sleep normally, walk normally
and to all intents and purposes was a normal
citizen, having resumed my full studies at
College. It is now the year 1951, and I still
live the life of a normal citizen, and being a
parson am busier than the average man or-
woman.

The way it happened was this. I ate no
meats or fats or sugar and avoided all iron in
chemical forms for a period of six months. I
wore a woollen body belt next to the skin to pro—
tect the weak spot. I drank literally quarts of
water———warm and cold—every day. The ﬁrst
thing every morning I drank a quart of
clean and clear “ God’s own Ale.” During the
day I drank pints of lemon water and sometimes
barley water. I ate greenstuff and fruit
in limited quantities, for I believed that water
would do the work of cleansing if it had the
chance. Eggs I ate in limited numbers,
having one almost every morning for break-
fast, although all the doctors were not of the
same opinion about eggs. However, I found
that an egg gave me something that nothing
else did, so I kept to my own treatment.
Whatever else I wore or did not wear I always
wore a heavy pair of boots and good substan—
tial socks, for I had learned that warm feet
were a necessary condition of healthy kidneys.
Hot baths now and then kept the skin clean
that it might help in clearing the system of any
dangerous poisons that might like to escape
that way.

I am not a vegetarian, but I do not like
meats now. Fats are an abomination to me.
I keep my kidneys normal by allowing Nature
to doctor me, and she does her work well.

REV. E. EBRARD REES.

(From “ Had/2‘12} Life,” 1932.)

162

 

 

 

 




 

 

Marc/1, I939

66 Honey 99

BY ADA M. MORGAN.

NE of Abraham Lincoln’s wonderful

characteristics was his deep love for

animals. Anything hurt or helpless
never appealed in vain for his sympathy and
help, and it was this trait that won him his
dearest pet, “ Honey.”

Honey was “ just a dog ” that little Abraham
found one day when he was returning along
the forest road that ran the several miles
from the Lincoln’s cabin to the mill. Abra-
ham was a very young lad at the time, but
it was one of his duties to carry the corn to
the mill to be ground into meal. On this
. particular, hot summer day, little Abraham
had a doubly hard job. He had found a dog
with a broken leg—a good-sized dog which
he carried along the road to a spring where
he could attend to its injury.

A neighbour watched the boy, and often
told of how Abraham laid the dog in the
shade of some bushes, then sat down and
held it to his breast and soothed it with
gentle talk, telling it that soon it would be
well because he would fix its hurt.

Then the boy brought the dog a drink
from the spring and began shaping two
splints for the broken leg. As best he could
he straightened the leg and bound the splints
on with soft pawpaw bark and rawhide.

All the time he was working he talked to
the dog, calling it “Honey” as though it
were a child, and explaining how
the injury must be treated. The
dog seemed to understand,
somehow—at least he knew the
boy’s kind heart and loved him,
for he whined his gratitude and
licked the hands that held him.
And when Abraham picked up
his sack of meal to go on home
he stooped now and then, as he
walked slowly along, to stroke
the head of the dog that hopped
along on three legs beside him.

Lincoln’s mother helped him
nurse his new pet and when he
wanted a name for it she sug—
gested “ Honey ” as ﬁtting be—
cause he loved it so much and
because that was the name he
used when he comforted it.

All of Abraham’s love and

Photo by]

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

care, however, could not keep Honey’s leg
from being twisted when it healed. This made
the boy very unhappy for a time, for he thought
Honey would be badly crippled. But soon
he saw that Honey was without pain and,
was very active and happy. True, the dog
was ugly, but he was also smart, and he
and his master loved each other.

For many years the boy and dog were almost
inseparable companions. Never would Lin-
coln allow anyone to tease or hurt Honey.
He disliked quarrels but he would ﬁght for
his pet. Later, Honey brought help to his
young master when Lincoln got fastened
between two rocks in a cave. The boy was
very proud of his dog; he hugged Honey
and patted him, and said to a playmate:
“ Now, you see, Honey has paid me back for
mending his broken leg.”

(From Our Dumb Anima/y.)

A Long Trek.

If you were taken to a spot you had never seen
before, 956 miles away from your home, could you,
without signposts or asking the direction, find your
way home again? It would be impossible. Yet a
dog has done it. A collie was taken in an express.
train from his mistress’s home in Fort Scott, Kansas,
to Albuquerque, New Mexico. As soon as he got to
Albuquerque, a dull place, he ran away. Eight
months later he stumbled into his mistress’s house at
Fort Scott. He had made the 956—mile journey across
desert and mountains and rivers all alone with only
his instinct to guide him. “ Instinct ” we call it,
but it is a wonderful power past our understanding.

 

[Waiting their MM. [1- 57- Stone

 

163

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS FRIEND

Marc/1, I939

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

H072. Sammy: D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.

Report of Royal Commission on Safety in
Mines.

T is not our province perhaps to consider

many aspects of the comprehensive and

valuable Report of the Royal Commission
on Safety in Coal Mines recently published.
The report covers nearly every aspect of
mining in 520 pages. It is divided into
12 chapters, dealing with safety legislation up
to 191 I, changes since 1911, the Mines
Inspectorate, accidents, the organisation and
management of the industry, ventilation,
support of underground workings, haulage,
explosions and ﬁres, safety organisation and
training, health and occupational diseases,
among other things.

We turn to the sections dealing with haulage
in mines, and to those concerned with the
employment of boys and youths, for obvious
reasons. The use of horses and ponies on
haulage roads, the condition of the haulage
roads, the training of the pony—drivers, and the
circumstances in which boys and ponies work,
are of great interest to us.

Serious criticism is found in the section
of the report dealing with the condition of
haulage roads and tracks. The Divisional
Inspector for the Cardiff area is quoted as
saying :—

Generally, road—laying receives nothing like the
attention it deserves. The frequency with which
derailments occur affords ample evidence of this.
Roads tend too often to become mere tracks, and
are costly in maintenance and the frequent cause of
accidents. Defective tracks have been estimated
to be responsible for nearly 12 per cent. of the
total of haulage accidents, and if only this aspect
were to be considered, good tracks would prove
a good investment. Frequently, derailments
are costly. Output is disorganised and time,
labour and money are expended to repair the
damage done, and when it is realised that all 'of
this can be saved by the provision of good tracks,
it is surprising that the present methods are
tolerated.

Many of the roads that are referred to in
the above extract are horse~haulage roads.
When loaded trams (tubs), containing over
50 cwt. of coal each, go off the rails, the
terriﬁc strain often placed upon the horses
to help to pull them into position for re—
railment has to be seen in order to be realised.
The suggestion that “ a derailed tub may not
be replaced on the track by any workman

164

unaided unless a suitable lever is used,” is one
that should find a general welcome.

The report, in respect of roadways, seems
in the main to pin its faith “ to the gradual
permeation of good mining practice ” rather
than to legislation in order to bring about
improvements, but it does recommend that
“ every haulage road shall be required to be
straight and regular in gradient and section,”
as far as practicable. The report also recom-
mends that “ on animal—haulage roads mini—
mum clear spaces of 18 inches on each side
of the road and of 12 inches above the top
of the tub ” shall be provided.

We fully realise that it is very difficult to
have a regulation to govern every condition
and operation in a mine, and also that it is
sometimes impossible or inadvisable to frame
detailed regulations of general application,
but we must confess to a reluctance to accept
the above—mentioned recommendations as
the last word on animal haulage roads, and
especially where clearances on the side and
above the tubs are concerned.

We have for some time advocated a clear-
ance of 5 ft. on one side of the tub along the
length of a pony—haulage road, in order to
allow a horse or pony to pass the tubs at any
point without rubbing. The report recom-
mends 18 inches on both sides, and we agree
that there is much to be said in favour of that
suggestion, but we venture to think that
the horses and ponies will benefit much more
by the adoption of a 3 ft. clear space on one
side on a pony-haulage road. We fully agree
that “all the clear spaces between the tub
and the side of the road should be required
to extend at least from the rail level to the
top of the tub,” but as the words “ at least ”
rather suggest, it would be an improvement
if the words “from the rail to the roof”
had been used instead. The horses and ponies
would thereby have been more fully safe—
guarded.

Reading these recommendations, we seem
to think that the Commission tended to forget
about the animals on the animal—haulage
roads. It is true that it is already illegal to
work horses and ponies under roofs that are
too low for them to pass without rubbing,
and if the report had considered the height of

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Marc/1, 1939

horses and ponies instead of the tubs on animal—
haulage roads, the recommendation of 12.
inches clear space above the top of the tub on
such roads would perhaps not have been made
in quite. that way? In certain proposals
that we hope will be put forward in a Bill,

we have deﬁnitely suggested that a clearance

of 9 inches above the collar of a bone or palgy
be provided along all such roads.

Consideration of some other matters must
be held over.
D. J. W.

A Test of Intelligence

HE most severe test of a dog’s intelligence

is when he is confronted with an

entirely new problem which he must
solve for himself without any help from his
master. This is an account of how a collie
came out of such a test with ﬂying colours.

The dog, Rasp, was owned by Mr. Gardner,
an old Midlothian shepherd. One day the
shepherd’s newly bought pig got out of his
sty and strayed away. The loss was rather
a serious matter and when Mr. Gardner
came home he found his wife greatly upset.
He told her not to worry, Rasp would find the
pig and bring him back, but she was not
consoled. Rasp was shown the empty sty
and sent off. She was away a long time and it
was beginning to get dark when she was
seen returning driving a flock of sheep.

“ Didn’t I tell you? ” said the shepherd’s
wife. “ It’s sheep she’s bringin’ hame.”
But as the ﬂock came nearer they saw the
missing pig in the middle of it. Rasp had
found the wanderer, but had failed in her
efforts to bring him back till she hit on the
brainy idea of gathering the sheep round him
and driving him home among them, keeping
them so closely packed on all sides that he
could not break away and had to allow himself
to be hustled along in the crowd. The
shepherd’s conﬁdence was vindicated. But
always after that when Rasp came back from
the hill she used to go straight to the sty,
jump on it, and satisfy herself that the gentle—
man was at home.

(From The Landwoméer.)

165

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The F airfield Refuge
WZE have recently received the 19 38

report of the humane work of the

Fairﬁeld Shelter for Worn-out Horses
at Stansted, Essex. This Refuge is not run
under the auspices of any Society, but is
carried on by Miss Judith Chester as a personal
service undertaken on behalf of old, emaciated
and worn-out horses. Mrs. Davidson—
Houston is closely associated with Miss
Chester in this enterprise. There are no
salaries or wages and we note that over one—
ﬁfth of the total subscriptions received during
the year come from the two ladies who are most
intimately associated with the work of the
Refuge. From the report the following
paragraphs are extracted :

During the year 19 58, sixty-seven animals were
received at the Refuge.

Of this number, ﬁfty-six had to be humanely
destroyed, thirteen of these cases being so urgent
that the slaughterer had to be procured im-
mediately ; forty-one were destroyed within a
few days, as they were unﬁt to be turned out;
one cart mare of 25 years old was turned out for the
summer months, as she was sound and in good
condition, but she was humanely destroyed before
the cold weather began; one pony which was
turned out, developed bad fever in the feet, and
had to be destroyed.

One pony was boarded for four months whilst
the owner was ill in the Inﬁrmary, and was after-
wards sold by the owner to a good home, on the
understanding that she was not to be resold.

Three ponies were kept at the Refuge. Two
cobs and one cart mare were brought to
replace worn-out animals belonging to tradesmen
who could not otherwise afford to part with them,
and lent to them on Refuge conditions; and two
ponies were given to good homes.

At the end of the year the total number of animals

belonging to the Refuge was nine ponies, two.

donkeys, one cart mare and two cobs, ﬁve of these
being lent to tradespeople.

We commend the work of the Fairﬁeld
Refuge to our readers as one well worthy of
their support. The balance at the Bank—
and there are no invested funds—on December
518t, 1958, was only £15 73. 4d. as against
£25 185. 5d. at the end of 1957. In 1958
payments for the purchase of horses alone
amounted to £ 313 73. and subscriptions to
£270 5s. 9d., so it is obvious that donations
for the maintenance of the work will be valued
by Miss Chester. They may be sent to her at
The Fairﬁeld Refuge, Stansted, EsseX.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Marc/z, I939

The League for the Prohibition of "Cruel Sports

Semaz‘azy: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.I.

The Crusade Against Coursing.
CROWDED meeting held in Liverpool.
A under the auspices of the Prohibition
of Coursing Committee on the eve of
the Waterloo Cup meetings unanimously
denounced the sport as cruel and degrading,
and appealed to local legislators to introduce
legislation against it as soon as possible.

Messages of sympathy were read from the
Editor of Tbe Animal Pittman], The Humane
Education Society, the National Society for
the, Abolition of Cruel Sports, Our Dumb
Friends’ League, The Scottish Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, The Ulster
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, The Women’s Guild of Empire,
Mr. Wm. Armstrong, Rev. James Barr, M.P.,
Rev. Barrow-Williams, Mrs. Annie Billings,
Councillor Blackshaw, Sir Edward Brockle—
bank (M.P. for Fairﬁeld), Major James
Burnie, Councillor Cleary, Rev. W. S. Coad,
(Rural Dean of \Wallasey), Mr. Collie Knox
of the Daily Mail, Canon T. A. E. Davey,
Mrs. Flora Drummond, Mr. Eric Errington
(M.P. for Bootle), Rev. Edward Elliott,
Councillor Fer, The Duchess of Hamilton,
Dr. John Hay, Rev. R. W. Howard, Mr.
B. V. Kirby (M.P. for Everton), Mr. T. A.
Leonard, Mr. D. P. Maxwell Fyfe (M.P. for
West Derby), Councillor Movey, Moore
Brabazon (M.P. for \Wallasey), Lady Muspratt,
Mr. Beverley Nichols, Rev. Wm. Paxton,
M 17. Eden Phillpotts, Miss Eleanor Rathbone,
M.P., The Rector of Liverpool, Professor
C. E. Raven, Alderman F. T. Richardson,
“ Romany,” Dr. Maude Royden, Major Peter
Shaw (M.P. for Wavertree), Rev. W. U.
Torrance, Mrs. Stewart Brown, Alderman
Edwin Thompson, Councillor John Tristram,
Alderman Vicary Scoins and Miss Ellen
Wilkinson, MP.

The Chairman, Alderman M. Cory Dixon,
Deputy—Lord Mayor of Liverpool, said that
the hare was a shy and nervous beast and it
was nothing short of beastly that it should
be attacked by dogs against which it had
practically no chance, and that for no other
purpose, as far as he could see, except to
provide a game of chance upon which people
could bet.

Mr. Hamilton Fyfe said that if we were found

166

setting a dog to chase a cat we might be
imprisoned for three weeks or ﬁned £25,
but if we set two dogs to chase a hare we were
described as “ sportsmen ” and “in the old
English tradition.” The reason was that a
distinction was drawn between domestic and
wild creatures. It was a wholly unjustifiable
distinction. The great rule should be “No
Killing for Fun.” Coursing was mere
brutality.

Mr. Alexander Critchley, M.P., said that if
legislation were necessary he would not only
give it his support in the division lobby,
if there is a division, but would ask the
Speaker to expound the case on the ﬂoor of the
House of Commons.

Seconding the resolution which Mr. Critch—
ley had proposed, Councillor Edwin S. More
suggested that the Earl of Sefton might be
asked to abolish coursing at Altcar. Coursing,
he asserted, degraded the fair name of Lan-
cashire.

Southport Protest.

Whilst the Liverpool meeting was taking
place, our Southport Branch was holding a
similar meeting. The chair was taken by
Mr. F. B. Price-Heywood and the speakers
included Rev. Lionel Gibbs, M.Sc., Miss

Lind-af—Hageby, Mr. J. Leonard Cather,‘

Rabbi Dr. A. E. Silverstone.
For the first time the Mayor of Southport
sent a message of sympathy stating that

' “ On the onl occasion I witnessed coursin ,
Y

which I did to form my own impressions, I
came to the definite conclusion that this
so—called sport is disgusting and degrading.”

Miss Lind-af—Hageby said that coursing
made the animal protection laws in this
country a mockery. It was difficult to see how
grown—up people could stand in a field,
see hares torn to pieces, hear their screams,
and see the brutality of the whole proceedings
and not feel disgust.

Mr. J. L. Cather and Mr. Frederick H. U.
Bowman also spoke.

The resolution “ That this meeting de—
nounces the coursing of live hares at Altcar
and elsewhere as mean, cruel, and degrading,
and demands its early prohibition ” was
carried unanimously.

 

 

 

 




‘1

 

 

 

 

Marc/1, 1939

Correspondence

To fbe Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.
ELECTROCUTION.

DEAR SIR,——Captain Hume’s article on “ Electrocu—
tion : How can we tell when it is Humane? ” in your
December issue, is well calculated to make the flesh
of the unintiated creep most alarmingly.

I have been hoping that someone else might reply
to him, but apparently no one has thought it worth
while taking up his arguments. The Special Com-
mittee of Veterinary Surgeons considered the electrical
method now in use in Great Britain to be the best
available method of destruction. The R.S.P.C.A.,
after giving due weight to every argument, 'has installed
it in a number of its clinics. Our Dumb Friends’
League, after seeing the method in operation, has
adopted it. The National Canine Defence League
has it installed in every one of its ten clinics. Battersea
Dogs’ Home, after seeing it used by this League,
had had it in operation for several years. In not a
single case has any report been received that the
instrument has failed to produce instantaneous un-
consciousness and speedy death. A similar installation
at Ottawa has been pronounced to be the best in Canada.

Can anyone seriously imagine that these organisations,
devoting immense effort and special talents to the
subject of destroying dogs painlessly, can be branded
as employing a method which is not the best available?
I have noticed of recent years a strong tendency on the
part of people holding scientiﬁc degrees to suggest in
public that until their advent the people carrying on the
affairs of the animal protection societies were lacking
in scientiﬁc attainments, and it has even been suggested
that although they are plentifully endowed with
sentimentality they are lacking in the qualities which are
the result of a liberal education. The obvious answer is
that the executives of the animal-protection societies
in Great Britain have been regarded all over the world
for many years as eﬂicient and sincere.

I have asked Captain Hume before what is his alter—
native to the electrical method of destruction, but I can-
not remember that he has ever replied. There are
methods in use to—day which cannot be shown to the

dog owner who wishes his or her dog to be destroyed,

but this League is always allowing the public to see the
dogs put to sleep and in every case the owners express
themselves not only as being satisﬁed but as being
surprised at the speed and efficiency of the operation.
I have spent many years in discouraging painful methods
of destruction, such as prussic acid, and endeavouring
to replace other, not so cruel but not too kind, methods
of destroying dogs. It is true that the electrocutor
has been brought as near perfection as it is possible to
imagine, without the customary long series of scientific
experiments which are considered by some people
to be essential in order to establish any fact in life;
it is also true that the system has been evolved without
the employment of university professors and laboratory
experts. These eminent people may feel aggrieved
that practical workers in the humane movement have
achieved results which they had no share in obtaining,
but I think that the animal-protection movement in this

country will not be prepared to cast aside the best

method ever devised because of these omissions.
If Captain Hume has a better method I am sure he

'will not delay any longer in announcing it. For my own
part, I have seen every method used in thlS country and

167

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

in America and I have found nothing as good, and
there are still many methods which ought to be replaced
by it with the least possible delay. I would suggest
that animal-lovers see the method in operation for
themselves and that they refuse to be persuaded by
theoretical treatises. It would be wise for them to
remember that anyone who stands in the way of a good
method is helping to prolong systems which are in-
ferior.
Yours faithfully,

CHARLES A. JOHNS,
Seerez‘my.

BEAVERS AND OTHER FUR-BEARERS.

SIR,———Those who admire Grey Owl’s work will learn
with regret that during the 12 months ended June,
1937, nearly 56,000 beavers were trapped in Canada.
There is a widespread impression that fur-bearers
are nowadays extensively bred on farms, but un-
fortunately this is only true of silver fox and mink;
fur farms account indeed for practically all silver foxes
and about one—third of the Canadian mink, but for
relatively few of any other species.

Of the total number (as distinct from the total value)
of the pelts produced in Canada, over ninety—five per
cent. are taken with traps. Grey Owl has described so
graphically the prolonged torment inﬂicted by these
instruments that I need not harrow the feelings of your
readers by repeating the details here. It is sad to
think that the sanctuaries for which Grey Owl strove so
hard are ofﬁcially regarded as “ reservoirs from which
large areas of surrounding wild country may be
naturally restocked ” when “it is the function of the
fur trade to turn this vast domain to perpetual economic
use.”

My object in writing is to make an appeal to women,
who are responsible for what is happening inasmuch
as they create the demand for furs. I appeal to them
not to rest until the gin trap hasibeen prohibited in the
democratic countries, as it already has been in Germany.

Yours faithfully,
FREDERICK T. G. HOBDAY.
Prerz'dent of The Univerrz’z‘z'er’ Federation far Animal Welfare.
42, Torrington Square, London, \W.C.I.

To Me Editor 0] THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,—I was particularly interested to read the
last paragraph of your article “ Utterly Revolting ”
in last month’s issue. Why is there so little unity in
the animal welfare movement? Why are there two
anti-Vivisection and anti—blood sport leagues? IS it
because they are making an easy living from a few
humanitarians whose subscriptions they receive?
Or is it just selﬁshness and conceit? '

I have often wondered whether these societies would
respond to an appeal by, say, a well—known person in
the humane movement, to unite and abolish, one by
one everything that spells pain and terror to animals.

I suppose we all have our own ideas as to which is
the most and the least cruel. Here is the order in
which I would like to see it done—Performing
animals ; Gin trap ; Vivisection ; Hunting and Coursing ;
Pit ponies; Wild animals in captivity.

Yours sincerely,
GEORGE H. WELSH.

5, WorpleZClose,'Rayner’s Lane, Harrow, Middlesex.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

To the Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,—Lovers of animals, and workers for
animal’s welfare will be pleased to learn that a branch of
the “ National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports ”
is now formed in Manchester.

Several local members of the N.C.A.\W. attended
the ﬁrst meeting held in the Y.M.C.A. building,
Peter Street, on February 10th, and expressed their
sincere approval by attaching themselves to the Society.

May I be allowed to seek through THE ANIMALs’
FRIEND more humanitarians in Manchester and
District, who will come along and give their support
to the new branch?

The next meeting will take place on Friday evening,
March 10th, at 7.45 pm. in the Y.M.C.A. building,
Peter Street, Manchester.

Any enquiries to be addressed to Miss E. Harris,
128, Downham Crescent, Prestwich, Manchester.

Yours sincerely,

ELIZABETH HARRIS.
Hon. Secretary.
128, Downham Crescent, Prestw1ch, Manchester.

To tlie Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

ECONOMIC VALUE OF HUNTING.

DEAR SIR,——A British Field Sports Society pamphlet
“ The Economic Value of Hunting ” states: “ The
enormous ﬁgure of nearly £2,000,000 spent in wages
indicates that hunting gives direct employment (as
grooms and huntservants alone) to over 20,000 men,
and of course, supports their families.” \When we,
as humanitarians, question this imposing statement
as to the economic value of cruelty we are dismissed
by the B.F.S.S. as“ cranks and faddists.” But the
B.F.S.S. would be hard put to to dismiss so loftily a
sporting writer in a sporting paper, Toe Field, 17/9/1958,
who also refers to the economic value of hunting:
“ A stableman’s life is a hard and precarious one.
Long hours seven days a week, no rest except during the
long spells of heart—breaking unemployment during the
off—season. The pay is poor, just enough to keep
body and soul together, and perhaps purchase a little
clothing in an endeavour to maintain a respectable
appearance.” . w:

Yours etc.,
E. G. BARLow.
77, Drakeﬁeld Road, London, S.W.I7.
29th January, 1939.

To toe Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.
127 FOXES SHOT.

SIR,———A matter of the greatest importance to fox
hunters has just come to light, as they have always
stated that foxes are very difﬁcult animals to kill by
shooting, and that it is cruel to attempt to do so as
they may be wounded and escape. This assertion
is now proved to be unfounded.

In an official letter, the Superintendent of Richmond
Park says that the Park was over-run with foxes, but
he and one keeper shot the lot (127), except five or
six which are preserved for public interest. He definite—
ly states that “in no case did an injured fox get away,
and only in a very few cases was a second shot necessary.”
The Park is a great tract of country of 2,469 acres,
about two and a half miles across in each direction,
with ample cover.

The result of this revelation is that the following have

168

 

M arc/z, I 939

now become indisputable facts; (I) There must be
hundreds who can shoot as well as those two men,
therefore foxes throughout the whole country could
easily and safely be kept down by shooting. (2) As a
hunted fox lJ‘ terriﬁed (it would not otherwise run for an
hour or more and sometimes until exhausted) and as all
who hunt know that many foxes suffer terribly during
their last race for life, hunting causes unnecessary
suffering, whilst instantaneous death by shooting
is humane and painless.

It is therefore time that the truth should be faced;
that foxes are destructive animals which infest the
country solely because they are preserved and en—
couraged to breed to give amusement to those who
enjoy hunting them.

Yours,

J. C. SHARP,
.,Yeoreteziy~—Leagite for Pro/Jilritz'on
* of Cruel Sporty.
20th, February, 1939. '

A Cat Story.

The BOJ‘Z‘OIZ Port tells the story of Sophie, the cat
that was more intelligent than the humans around her I

In a factory in Everett, Sophie had a very comfortable
nest, and in the nest a family of kittens. Everyone
liked them. But one day Sophie moved. She picked
up the kittens one by one and moved them to the
farthest place she could find in the building. Every-
body laughed, but a war veteran who remembered how
animals behaved during the war when they detected
poison gas. He knew that cats do not move their
families just for fun. Sophie must have a reason.
He walked around the corner where the kittens had
been, then he ordered everyone to keep away from it;
something must be wrong and Sophie knew it.
Suddenly there was an explosion and the corner blew
out. Thirty-ﬁve employees had got out just in time.
In her new home Sophie gave her kittens a bath.
“ I told you something was going to happen,” she
mewed when they praised her. How did she know?

“ Donald! Beetles! ”

Of course you have seen Donald Duck at the movies,
but a little boy in New Jersey has a real one. He was
brought by the family from a poultry dealer, and showed
so much intelligence and gaiety that he was kept for a
pet.

Donald is not only a pet but he is useful. He loves
beetles as a diet. The garden was infested with these
crawling things. Donald heard complaints; he went
to investigate. “ Beetles! ” he quacked. “ why
didn’t you tell me before? I have never had enough
beetles in my life! ” Donald went to work, and the
beetles grew scarce. Then the neighbours found out
about him, “ would you mind lending us Donald?
The beetles are running our garden.” So Donald
began travelling. They didn’t have to transport him.
All they had to do was to shout, “ Donald! beetles! ”
and Donald would leave his sunken wash-tub pond and
run. If the boys go too fast for feet, he has wings.
He rises in the air and ﬂies behind them. “ Beetles!
more beetles! ” and Donald’s wings fan the air.

(From Animal Life—Toronto).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Mare/1, I939 , THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

“ The Animals’ ‘ Friend ” Sustentation Fund

The Editor acknowledges with cordial thanks the following donations received up to and
including February zoth, 1939.

Mrs. Maxwell, ,5 I 163. 6d. Mrs. Herdman and Mrs. A. Luck ,5 I each.

Mrs. Dixon Davies, 15$. Miss D. Lowry, 125.

Mrs. Hennell and Bhagat Ram (Sec. A.F.S. Ludhiani, India), 105. each.

Mrs. L. Doubleday, 9s. 6d. Miss M. B. O’Sullivan, 7s.

Miss K. V. Aldred, Miss A. King, Mr. G. King, Mr. J. L. Kitts, Mrs. Lewis, Mr. A. F. Searle
and Miss H. A. Sim, 6s. 6d. each.

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Robinson, gs. 6d.

Mrs. F. G. Carroll and Miss H. Ward, 55. each. Miss A. Gilbert, 43. 6d.

Miss H. Barrett and Miss M. A. Wigley, gs. 6d. each.

Miss L. hi. Bear and Miss A. Lawrie, gs. each. Mrs. Plumpton, 25.

Miss M. Aldred (Gt. Yarmouth), Miss M. Aldred (Horam), Miss M. Alford, Miss E. Barton,
Miss M. H. Bayliss, Miss M. Boyd, The Misses Bruce and Ward, Mr. J. C. Cartwright,
Miss K. A. Farmar, Miss M. Ford, Com. and Mrs. G. C. Heathcote, Mr. R. Morley,
Mr. J. Nusserwanji and Mr. W. N. Perrott, and Mrs. M. W. Withers, IS. 6d. each.

Mrs. H. M. Hargrove, IS.

Mrs. Durnford, Miss Elwes and Miss A. Montgomery, 6d. each.

Donations to this Fund and to the “ Louise Hampton ” Library Fund are still much needed
and will be greatly appreciated by the Editor.

 

 

“The Hideous Cruelty
of Vivisection”

“ Vivisection is a veritable hell on earth. If
anything could exceed the hideous cruelty of
Vivisection it would be the childish absurdity of
the claims to beneﬁt mankind which are con—
stantly made by its advocates. No good ever
came out of Vivisection since the world began,
and, in my opinion, no good ever can.”
*—Charles Bell Taylor, M.D., F.R.C.S.,
Nottingham.

To aid in destroying this
“veritable hell"

you are asked to join our League now and
further its aims (1) By prayer ; (2) By endeavour-
ing to form a Branch; (3) By gifts; (4) By a
legacy.

For fuller particulars write to:

The Rev. R. Daunton-Fear, B.D.,
The Vicarage, Lindfield, Sussex.
(Chairman of Committee and Hart. Director.)

The Church Anti-Viviseetion League

* Dr. Taylor left £15,000 in his will to ﬁght Vivisection
and similar abuses.

 

 

 

 

 

169

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND March, 1939

 

1

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog—welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

Seeks to prohibit the niniseetion of dogs.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I

 

l

FOR HOLIDAYS THIS YEAR TRY

ILFRACOMBE IN GLORIOUS DEVON!

Mrs. James Allen’s Vegetarian Guest House in this lovely West Country is now so well known as scarcely .
to need advertising.
Established thirty—twoyears it is exe/nsineb/ vegetarian.

Its liberal, varied, and well—balanced diet; the abundance of fresh fruits; delicious salads; conservatively
cooked vegetables ; the appetizing and nourishing soups, savouries, sauces, roasts, sweets, etc, have been enjoyed
by hundreds of guests.

DO COME, AND SEE FOR YOURSELF!

Send to—day for Leaﬂet giving full information. Terms'are very moderate.
Miss NORA ALLEN, 33, Broad Park Avenue, Ilfracombe, Devon.

 

BRIGHTON & HOVE The Little Animals’ Friend

AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE.

 

Price 1%d‘. post free.
Edited by JESSEY WADE.

STORIES, PICTURES, COMPETITIONS, ETC.
Valuable in Schools and Homes.

Ideal Boarding Establishment

Near Sea and Downs, generous
diet. Bedrooms, H. and C.

 

 

water, gas ﬁres. Annual Subscription, post free, IS. 6d.
M04374” Terms. Bound Volumes 1938. Price 1/9 per post
artistie and attractive Binding
Tarijf: MR. & MRS. MASSINGHAM THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
16 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON 80 Mosley Street, Manchester 2.

 

 

The League for the Prohibition Of Cruel Sports
7, VICTORIA HE E ET, WEsTMINsT ER, 5W. 1.

President: HAMILTON FYFE

Secretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treasurer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The
League is doing for wild animals what other societies are doing for domestic animals.

Membership zs. 6d. upwards.

 

 

170

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Marc/z, 1939 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

HUMANE EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS AND
HOMES WILL END CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

OUR SPECIAL CAMPAIGN IS YIELDING REMARKABLE RESULTS.

LEGISLATION IS SLOW AND UNSATISFACTORY.

Please help The Humane Education Society to go ahead with effective and enduring
work for Horses, Dogs, Cats, Birds, and all Creatures in need of friendship
and protection.

Reports, Leafletrfana’ journal gladly rent on application to :-—~_
The Humane Education Society, 80, Mosley Street, Manchester, 2.
GEORGE ARLISS, Preria’ent. ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Secretary.

 

The International League Of If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join

St. Hubert The Cats Protection
(Bishop of Liége) ' League

This League has been instituted for the cessation The one SOCiety dCVOtEd solely to the welfare

of all forms of cruelty, including the slaughter and Of cats and kittens.
trapping of animals for human consumption and for

personal adornment. And for the purpose of bringing MEMBERSHIP 5/ = PER ANNUM’
before all nations the realisation of the callous taking including the Society’s ofﬁcial organ,
of innocent life for sport and as a ﬁnancial prOposition.

cs ”
MEMBERS INVITED THE CAT

A i t M b r hi S bscri tion 3. 6d. er annum.
All information from:——- ssocae em e s p u p 3 p

 

The Organising Secretary, Write for Free Literature toz—The Secretary, 29,
137, Church Street, Kensington, London, W.8. Church Street, Slough. Bucks.

 

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

56 BLOOMSBURY STREET, LONDON, \V.C.I.

C/Jair/n‘an: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treamrer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BER’I‘RAM LLOYD
New Pub/imam FOXHUNTERS’ PHILOSOPHY

A garland from five centuries
A SUITABLE NEW YEAR GIFT ! Price 3d.

 

 

 

 

IN CASE OF SICICNESS :_ Remember the Nature Cure Hospital and

Nursing Home. It has been founded on
humane principles and it provides the kind of diet and treatment you would desire to have.

IN TIMES OF HEALTH :__Please think of its needs. The majority of

its patients are admitted below cost. Even
a small Annual Subscription from you would be a very great help.

63-65, Erpingham Road, Putney, S.W.15 ‘
Telephone: Putney 6602. i
Ont-Patient Clinic: 41, BAKER STREET, WJ. Telep/Jone: WELBECK 8348.

 

 

All rubrariptionr and communication: for tbe Magazine Mould be addrerrea' “ The Editor, ANIMALS’ FRIEND
Feat/yerrtone Building, High Hal/70m, London, W. C .1.”

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Marc/1, I939

 

1
l

(1 EDW. 8.)

Prohibition of Vivisection on Dogs (Scotland)

BILL

Provide for the abolition of Vivisection upon dogs; and

for purposes connected therewith.

B it enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with
B' the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows 2-

l.—(1) From and after the passing of this Act no person shall
perform any Vivisection on any dog, with or Without the use of
anaesthetics, and no person shall be licensed to perform any such
experiment.

(2) Any person contravening the provisions of this section shall
be liable on conviction under the Summary Jurisdiction Acts, in the
case of a ﬁrst offence to a ﬁne not exceeding ﬁfty pounds, and in the
case of a second or any subsequent offence to a ﬁne not exceeding
one hundred pounds or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three months.

2. Section ﬁve of the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, in so far as
relates to dogs, is hereby repealed.

3. This Act shall come into operation on the ﬁrst day of January,
nineteen hundred and thirty—eight.

4. This Act may be cited .. as the Prohibition of Vivisection on
Dogs (Scotland) Act, 1937, and shall extend to Scotland only.
(Bill 25)

“SAVE OUR Does.”
NATIONAL CAMPAIGN.

(Under #96 ampz'oer of T/Je 5502‘;ij Tail— Waggem’ C lab.)

OF BUCHAN.
Hon. Dir/error and Treasurer—Miss N. IVORY.

A.D. 1936.

Prohibition
of Vivi-
section on
dogs.

Amendment
of 39 & 40
Vict. c. 77.

Commence-
ment.

Short title
and extent.

PdeOﬂJ—THE COUNTESS OF HADDINGTON, THE EARL OF BUCHAN, ROSALIE, COUNrEss

 

Please all talk to your Members of Parliament about the above Bill
(introduced by Mr. Joseph Westwood, M.P., in 1936) and ask them
to give it their support when re—introduced.

Write for Petition Forms to Miss Ivory.
Edinburgh—Io, Queensferry Street. London—7, Haymarket Court, Haymarket, SAW. I.

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road. Redhill. Surrey, for the
National Council for Animals' Welfare, 1, Featherstone Buildings. High Holborn, London, W.C.l.

 

 




