¥
k < ‘n .
‘5' ‘5 t*\.-‘_ ' « - v.4?
- J.‘ 1 “ﬁv’”,~.—EMI r. \. '
' 1
.

ISSUED BY

THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND
ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

15, St. James’s Place, St. James’s Street
London, S.W.I

 

 

The Truth;
About Vivisection

 

Chart Showing that Cruel Experiments are
Permitted under the Present Law, and
How it is Administered

 

How Medical Students are Taught Vivisection

 

Hon. Director: President:
Miss LIND-AF-HAGEBY. THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON
_ AND BRANDON.
Secretary :
Miss L. K. SCHARTAU. Hon. Treasurer:
I \ hiiss B. C. DELIUS.

SEE LAST PAGE

 




THE TRUTH ABOUT VIVISECTION

THE PRESENT LAW AND ITS ADMINISTRATION——

A DOUBLE-FACED ACT

(CRUELTY TO ANIMALS ACT,

1876)

 

THE VIVISECTION ACT OF 1876.

RESTRICTION

 

“The animal must
during the whole of
the experiment be
under the inﬂuence
of some anaesthetic
of sufficient power
to prevent the
animal feeling
pain.”

PERMISSION

WHAT THE “RESEARCH DEFENCE
.SOCIETY ” HAS STATED

 

 

“ Experiments may be performed with-
out anxsthetics on such certiﬁcate being
given as in this Act mentioned . that
insensibility cannot be produced Without
necessarily frustrating the objects of such
experiments.”

(Certiﬁcates A., A.+E., A.+F.)

In 1936, 785,627 experiments were per-
formed on unancesthetised animals. Dogs
and Cats were the victims of 4,584 of these.

(Parliamentary Return, 1937.)

OF EXPERIMENTS WITHOUT
AN/ESTHETICS.

“ No less than 97 per cent. of all experi—
ments on animals in this country are inocu-
lations made with a needle put under the
skin. In a very large number of inoculations
the animals suffer no pain at all. It may
fairly be said that in the vast majority of
these inoculations there is either no pain at
all or nothing more than what may truly
be called trivial. The Home Office require-s
that, if an animal be in pain from an
inoculation, it must be killed under an
anaesthetic so soon as the main result of the
experiment has been attained.”

“ Practically, dogs and cats are only used
for experiments done under anaesthetics.”

 

“The animal
must, if the pain is
likely to continue
after the effect of
the anaesthetic has
ceased, or if any
serious injury has
been inﬂicted on
the animal,be killed
before it recovers
from the inﬂuence
of the anaesthetic
which has been
administered.”

“An experiment
calculated to give
pain shall not be
performed without
anaesthetics on a
dog or cat. . . . ”

“An experiment

calculated to give

pain shall not be

performed on any

horse, ass or mule.
33

 

“The experiment
shall not be per-
formed as an illus-
tration of lectures
in medical schools,
hospitals, colleges,
or, elsewhere.”

“ Experiments may be performed with-
out the person who performed such
experiments being under an obligation to
cause the animal on which any such experi—
ment is performed to be killed before it
recovers from the inﬂuence of the anmsthetic
on such certiﬁcate being given as in this Act
mentioned, that the so killing the animal
would necessarily frustrate the object of the
experiment, and provided that the animal
be killed as soon as such object has been

attained.”
(Certiﬁcates B., B.+EE., B.+F.)

In 1936, 27,402 experiments were, accord-
ing to the report furnished by vivisectors
themselves, performed on animals which
were operated upon and kept alive after-
wards for observation of the disease or other
effects. Of these, 1,762 were upon dogs and
cats. No information is given as to the
number of vivisections which each animal
had to undergo.

 

“ . . . except on such certiﬁcate being
given as in this Act mentioned, stating in
addition to the statements hereinbefore
required to be made in such certiﬁcate, that
for reasons speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate the
object of the experiment will be necessarily
frustrated, unless it is performed on an
animal similar in constitution and habits to a
cat or dog, and no other animal is avail-
able.”

(Certiﬁcate E.)
“ . . . except on said certiﬁcate being
given as is in the Act mentioned that
the object of the experiment will be neces-
sarily frustrated unless it is performed on
a horse, ass, or mule, and that no other
animal is available for such experiment.”
(Certiﬁcate F.)

41 experiments on unanaesthetised horses,
asses, and mules were performed in 1936.

The total number of experiments recorded
in 1936 was 822,167.

The total number of licensed vivisectors
who reported experiments was 1,982.

 

Experiments may be performed under
the foregoing provisions as to the use
of anaesthetics by a person giving illus-
trations of lectures in medical schools,
hospitals, or colleges, or elsewhere, on such
certiﬁcate being given, as in this Act
mentioned, that the proposed experiments
are absolutely necessary for the due
instruction of the persons to whom such
lectures are given with a view to their
acquiring physiological knowledge or know-
ledge which will be useful to them for
saving or prolonging life or alleviating

suffering.”
(Certiﬁcate C.)

823 experiments in illustration of lectures
were performed in 1936.

 

 

OF EXPERIMENTS IN WHICH THE
ANIMAL IS ALLOWED TO “RECOVER”

“ In some cases the animal is allowed to
recover from the operation under the
anmsthetic, and is kept for observation. The
operation must be done by the antiseptic
method, as it would be done by a surgeon
on a patient. If the wound does not heal
well, and matter is formed, the animal must
be killed. After the healing of the wound
the animals are not necessarily, or even
generally, in pain. Thus, experiments for
the removal of some organ in the body, or
for the removal of part of the brain, may
be made without pain.”

he

“The working and the administration of
the Act are strictly guarded, so that every
precaution may be taken against any sort of
cruelty to animals.”

The late Hon. Secretary of the Society
said of inoculations into the eye:

“ Inoculations into the anterior chamber
of the eye sound cruel, but cocaine renders
the surface of the eye wholly insensitive.”—
Experiments on Animals, page 269.

 

 

The late Professor Starling, a leading
Vivisector and a prominent member of the
“Research Defence Society,” advocated
before the Royal Commission that ﬁrst and
second year students should be permitted to
seek manipulative skill for future surgical
work bv Vivisection, and that the animals
should be kept alive for observation. He
especially pleaded for permission for students
to practise on the eyes of animals.

The late Sir Victor Horsley publicly
expressed his opinion that there should be
“no limit” to the use of animals for
“ educational ” purposes.

THE TRUTH

 

 

 

 

Mr. Thane, Inspector under the Vivisection Act, admitted
before the Royal Commission of 1906, the Final Report of
which was published in 1912, that even in the so-called
painless experiments, those performed under Certiﬁcate A.,
without the use of anaesthetics, the infection or injection is
in some cases followed by “great pain and suffering,”
especially the injection of tetanus toxin, the infection with
plague and the insertion of certain drugs (457).

Sir James Russell, the Assistant Inspector, said that he
had found animals, which had been subjected to experiments,
suffering pain (541), he had seen animals infected with plague
which seemed to him “ miserable and dying, evidently in
suffering” (543).

“One can imagine,” said Professor Starling in answer to
question 4019, “that in a pathological laboratory a certain
amount of suﬁering might be an essential part of the experi-
ment, so that although the animal was suﬂering, it would not
be right to kill it.”

 

It is legal to vivisect an animal many times, provided the
vivisector holds Certiﬁcate B. In the case of the “Brown Dog”
the vivisectors, Messrs. Starling and Bayliss, admitted that the
animal had been vivisected three times. (The third time was
not legal in this case, because Professor Starling also admitted
that his object had been attained after the second Vivisection.)

There is nothing in the Act to prevent twenty vivisections on
one dog;' examples of repeated operations abound in the
journals in which vivisectors have recorded their experiments.

The amount of suffering which it is now permissible for a
vivisector to inﬂict under Certiﬁcate B. can be estimated from
some answers given by Mr. Thane (the Inspector) to the Com-
mission. He said that: “ It does not follow that when the
disease is developed the object of the experimenter is achieved
necessarily. He may want to study the course of the disease.”
(1315); and that there is no statutory requirement that the
operator should kill the animal before it becomes in a state
of acute pain (I212). .

Under the terms of the “ pain clause ’ which is now attached
to certiﬁcates the animal must be killed if the pain is both
severe and likely to endure, even if the object of the experi-
ment has not been attained; after the object has been attained
the animal must be killed if the pain is either severe or likely
to endure. But it should be noted that in all cases the
estimation both of the intensity of the pain and of its duration
is left entirely to the experimenter.

3

Mr. Thane has seen “animals suffer” when kept alive for
observation after operations under Certiﬁcate B. (1550). He
refers to animals in “ severe shock” after both the suprarenal
glands have been excised, and points out that the experiment
of removing a portion of the second kidney or of taking away
the thyroid gland “ makes the animal very ill,” also that some
operations on vessels, ligature of arteries and veins “ are
followed by severe illness ” (472).

Sir Henry A. Swanzy, President of the Royal College of
Surgeons, Ireland, gave the following answers before the Royal
Commission:

9951. Dr. Wilson. “The eye, of course, is a very sensitive
organ to pain? ”—“ Yes.”

9952. “ Would not the insertion of foreign substances into
the eye for experimental purposes be likely to produce a
great deal of pain? ”—“ Yes, they would as a rule.”

9953. And, of course, in experimenting on animals,
although for cutting operations cocaine or anaesthetics may
be used in the ﬁrst instance, they could not be used con-
tinuously while the animal was under observation? ”—“No.”

9954. “So that the animal must be more or less in a
suffering condition while under observation?”——“No doubt
there would be suffering in many instances.”

Dr. M. S. Pembrey, Lecturer in Physiology at Guy’s Hospital,
said:

“ I think that painful experiments are necessary.” (14,067.)

“ I admit that I have done painful experiments, and I am
not ashamed of admitting it. They are absolutely necessary.”
(14,084.)

 

There is practically no limit to what is done now before
students. The restriction with regard to that which is
“ absolutely necessary” is interpreted in accordance with the
taste of each individual vivisector. Professor Halliburton, in
1903, injected diseased spinal cord matter taken from a lunatic
into a poodle which had been strapped to a table and
opened for the experiment. The injection was performed at
the Imperial Institute before a class of students, and the results
watched, after which the dog was killed by blowing air into a
vein.

Sir W. Thornley Stoker, Inspector for Ireland under the
Vivisection Act, said before the Royal Commission:

“Experiments on living animals should be forbidden in
illustration of lectures on the ground of their uselessness and,
perhaps, cruelty also. Although I have taken the demonstration
as an illustration, the arguments of want of necessity and
cruelty apply to most or all of the experiments in illustration
of lectures. Such demonstrations cannot but be demoralising
to the young men and women who witness their performance.
They seem to me to be an offence against humanity.”

 

 




 

ill/‘-

2.5?!

I
-3;
u- 9’}

[a .

:9" I

‘;—‘ I

- I - I:
.'—f'-T'u:‘-"¢,"!’/:’l’

. $3.1 at. I
I“,

l

. // ‘ .
la?» 2

. It ...; -: -‘ ~
V. “.3“ .‘4 '2-4 :_‘_.' ,
/ 'AJ’ZZ It‘f’iﬁ- \. l i-' EV ‘
*9Wfsrm /-
Q‘Wr \‘1 'rzemaa. ./
, _ __‘___‘ _

 

_...
—_._,

 

 

 

 

 

!i. is .'
I 'uummmw' 1 1%

_ lullilaii‘
y it; ‘ “lull

‘ 2‘ ‘i""':g‘|‘lli, ‘i-

Hug
if”.

, ,.m:,:..~-“°‘
. ‘ ‘ iii-ll.“ .-
" ‘ ,ﬁ-n :W'l‘ﬁmlw
i a 1 v_ .N-u‘ . li'l.‘ lm". il'lii' “ ,
I" “' ‘ Y ' ‘ ' ' Mull" W}? xx v “I'll L 7 ~ 4 .
i. ”“1” H ‘ iliﬁ'fi- I'HlerwwWH“ l.‘.a¢'”’:”]’ (3:: ("A :1: ,. >15 [A «
“j .H ; 1-," It. ' .. -4,,'/ // 3% , 5"]; 4... .. .|.,u-".] 7/...”

2“
/ ,4. I.~/

/

“in {x

. /
I . L
t r ’ I
I” ,. .
, //////
_ // /
ins ' ”‘0‘,”4“
‘ ,_.
l u. 1i I‘llllill'iglh‘u “5'1”“.
#112337"? 'i-if‘l' ,‘_ ‘~;\\§\'

:I‘gim

I, ‘ l '
Mama“ ’ £42

\

"<'- '. .3 I,
. 1.,

\

i fit-L, ._
: Haw inhiéiisuiﬂﬂ‘:'*//o ——,: ’
lﬂg/ / .ullllllllll"

How Medical Students are Taught Vivisection.

These illustrations are reproduced from two well-knOWn text-books used in Medical Schools—“ Essentials of
Experimental Physiology for the Use of Students,” by Dr. T. G. Brodie, and “ Outlines of Practical Physiology,”
Professor William Stirling.

 




