DISCUSSION ON VIVISECTION

CHURCH CONGRESS.

BY

LAWSON TAIT, F.R.C.S., ETC.,

PRESIDENT OF MASON’S SCIENCE COLLEGE, BIRMINGHAM.

(Repmlnted from the BIRMINGHAM DAILY POST.)

Summon :

VICTORIA STREET AND INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION.
20, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, SW.

_—

‘1892.

 




 

Printed by PEWTRESS d3» 00.,

28, LITTLE QUEEN STREET, HIGH I-IOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.

 

 

 




 

A Jaw-«ax

 

THE DISCUSSION OF VIVISECTION AT
THE CHURCH CONGRESS.

 

 

 

 

(Reprinted from the “ BIRMINGHAM DAILY Pos'r,” Oct. 4th, 1892.)

’ SIR,——The column of your London correspondent is usually
so interesting that I am sure it is very widely read, and the
information contained in it is usually so very accurate that I am
sure you will permit me to correct an error into which the writer
has been led, even though it be on so unimportant a matter as my
own theological tendencies. The importance of the error is
greatly exaggerated because it is in relation to an event which I
am sure will be one of great general interest, the coming discussion
at Folkestone.

Your correspondent says that I declined to recognise any right
(on the part of the authorities of the Congress) to enquire into my
theological belief and therefore withdrew, this withdrawal, coupled
with that of my friend Sir Andrew Clarke, the President of the
College of Physicians, having therefore “ aroused keen discussions
in circles interested.” I am very glad to learn that this triﬂing
incident has aroused a keen discussion, but it may be as well that
the real facts should be known.

I have not the correspondence by me as I write, or I should
give names and dates, but I can from memory give the facts
exactly. I was invited by those responsible for arranging the
discussion to take part in it, and I consented to do so. Some
weeks after I was written to and informed of the rule that
speakers must be members of the Church of England. I have
always been in the habit of regarding myself as a member of that
Church since I have resided south of the Tweed, and at the
Diocesan Congress at Manchester some twelve years ago I
attended at the request of the Bishops. of Lichﬁeld, Manchester

 




 

 

4

and Chester, and at the urgent request of Mr. Chamberlain, and
gave an address on the proposal of the latter to try the Gothen-
burg system of licensing. I was then informed of the same rule
about membership of the Church and I did exactly what I did for
Folkestone, I gave a detailed account of my bringing up in
matters theological and of my present position, to the best
of my belief. ‘ The authorities of the Folkestone Congress
never noticed my last letter in reply to their enquiry,
so that I have had to wait and learn from the columns
of the Daily Post that my services at Folkestone are not
required and that I have been virtually excluded from the Church.
The facts of my theological training cannot possibly have altered
in twelve years, and I do not think that my belief has altered in any
way, so that it must be that what constitutes membership of the
Church of England in the Province of York does not hold good in
the Province of Canterbury. I greatly regret that I have been
excluded (I most certainly have not withdrawn) from the discussion,
and it would have been to me the utmost pleasure to meet so able
and trenchant an advocate of the old belief as Sir Andrew Clarke.
This question of vivisection is becoming one of far greater
importance than is generally believed by those not immediately
interested in it, and the decisive allusion to it by Sir George
Humphry in his address yesterday shows this. An occasion such
as Sir George’s address gave neither a proper time nor a proper
place for the discussion of a burning question, but it required much
self restraint on my part to refrain from rising in my place as one
of the Trustees and Council of the College to defend the policy
which that body has followed now for several years with the utmost
success, and I am also sure with the approval of the great bulk of
their fellow citizens.

When an application was made to them by a late member of the
Professorial staff for assistance and permission for the performance
of experiments on living animals, the request was refused, a result
for which I was largely if not mainly responsible.

The View I took was that such work must be in two directions,
what Sir George Humphry is pleased to call research, and for the
instruction of our students. The answer to the one was that the

 




 

5

College was not bound in any way to facilitate research, "its
function being that of education. For the purpose of education
such experiments are in no way necessary. As a student I never
saw a single experiment on a living animal. Concerning research
Sir George Humphry pointed to the German schools as something
worth being copied, and for the copying of which our restrictive
legislation stands in the way. For one, as intimately and widely '
concerned in the application of human knowledge for the saving of
human life and the relief of human suffering as any one can be, or
as any one has ever been, I say I am grateful for the restrictive
legislation. Let me give one brief illustration of my most recent
experience in this matter as one of hundreds which conﬁrm me in my
determination persistently to oppose the introduction into England
of What passes for science in Germany. Some few years ago I
began to deal with one of the most dreadful calamities to which
humanity is subject by means of an Operation which had been
scientiﬁcally proposed nearly two hundred years ago. I mean
ectopic gestation. The rationale of the proposed operation was
fully explained about ﬁfty. years ago, but the whole physiology of
the normal process and the pathology of the perverted one were
obscured and misrepresented by a French physiologist’s experi—
ments on rabbits and dogs. Nothing was done, and at least
ninety-ﬁve per cent. of the victims of this catastrophe were
allowed to die.

I went outside the experimentalists’ conclusions, went back to
the true science of the old pathologist and of the surgeon of 1701,
and performed the operation in scores of cases with almost uniform
success. My example was immediately followed throughout the
world, and during the last ﬁve or six years hundreds if not
thousands of women’s lives have been saved, whilst for nearly
forty years the simple road to this gigantic success was closed by
the folly of a vivisector.

But that is not all. One of the conclusions of my operations was
a physiological one, as simple as possible, and following from my
facts as certainly as night follows day. It was that the peritoneal
cavity was capable of digesting the soft gelatinous tissue of an
early fetus. But this did not satisfy our Germen men of science,

 




 

6

one of whom immediately set to work and, removing the immature
babies from the wombs of a number of animals, be planted them in
the cavity of the peritoneum of the same animals. Thus he
assumed that he “ conﬁrmed ” my statements.

I shall not harrow your readers by a description of what the
sufferings of these poor little animals must have been, because I do
not take up (though I feel very keenly) what is called the mere
sentiment of this question ; but I proclaim that the whole of this
' objectionable proceeding was useless and ridiculous in its purport,
for ectopic gestation is unknown in the lower animals, and there-
fore no conclusion derived from this German kind of science could
have been of the least value. But, on the other hand, suppose
that the peritoneum of these lower animals had not been capable
of digesting the fetus, for animals differ vastly from man in these
processes, these experiments might have created doubts as to the
value of my operations on women, and the whole of this immense
advance of surgery might have been stopped—a possible result
really too awful to contemplate.

Views such as mine are those of a minority of my professional
brethren, and are generally sneered at as those of a crank. But
my reply to this is that they form the new belief, that of the
coming generation, and that not one in ﬁfty of the bulk of my
present brethren have even seriously gone into the question, and
probably have never seen a single experiment on a living animal.
If they were to ask themselves what its results are in the matter
of education, what would they ﬁnd? As Sir George Humphry
spoke much of education and examinations, let us see what is the
effect of this kind of science there. Let us take the case of the
University of Edinburgh as a sample. Up to about the year 1868,
physiology was taught under the name of “The Institutes of
Medicine,” a name it thoroughly deserved, by a man who was a
practising physician, and the greatest clinical teacher that ever
lived. In the later years of his life he got bitten with
German science, and took into his head to do a lot of
vivisection. The only result was that he covered himself with
ridicule by proving from his experiments that mercury had no action
on the liver—a proposition no one else has ever seriously accepted.

 

 

 




 

 

'7

Up to that time his teaching and his examinatlons were directed
solely to the purpose of turning out men who knew their business ;
and looking at the list of his pupils, I venture to say that no man
was ever more successful. I was his pupil in 1862 and 1868 and
I never saw him bring a living animal into his class-room, never
heard that he had ever done such a thing or even wanted to do it.

At the present time the University instruction and examinations
are burdened with the so-called science of the chair of physiology,
not ﬁve per cent. of which is of the slightest value even as a method
of mental training or of any use at the bedside for the ordinary
business of life. Everything has to give way to “laboratory ”
instruction, in which experiments on animals take a most prominent
part, and the students are turned out possessed of degrees, but
bereft of much of the natural gifts they started with, and utterly
destitute of the practical knowledge of their business.

That this is no overdrawn picture is shown by Professor
Humphry’s own complaints, and the rapturous applause with
which my own strictures on this system were received when
uttered on the same platform some two years ago, to the
largest audience which probably was ever drawn together of a
purely medical kind. My address as the Surgical Orator of 1890,
when the British Medical Association met in this town, was
mainly directed to the mischievous system of so-called scientiﬁc
training, of purely German origin and thoroughly repugnant to our
English tastes and our English common sense.

It is therefore a satisfactory matter to know that the Council of
Mason’s College would have none of it, and that the governing
body of the new University College of Nottingham has recently
decided similarly. The Medical School of Queen’s College is now
united entirely with the Science School of Mason’s College; but
we, of Mason’s College, have had the direction of the science
teaching of the Medical School for several years, we have had no
German scientiﬁc methods, and our success has not diminished
thereby one atom —-on the contrary.

I have said that this is the new faith, and it is still snecred at.
But so was Darwinism until a few years ago, and now you ﬁnd

Darwinism being preached by the pal-sons, and its technical terms

 




8

adopted without the users seeming to know the signiﬁcance of the

change. So with the medical profession. They are undergoing a

change without recognising it. It is now nearly half a century
since anaesthetics were introduced, and we are still unsettled as to
which anaesthetic is the safest and best, and the uncertainty is due
solely to the introduction into the question of experiments upon
animals. The only conclusion derived from them is that
anaesthetics do not answer upon dogs as they do upon cats, and
upon neither as they do upon man. The Nyzam of Hyderabad spent
a lot of money upon the question most generously but most
uselessly; for clearly the climatic conditions inﬂuence the results,
and make it probable that such volatile substances-as ether and
chloroform do not act in India upon animals as they do in our
moisture-laden air. Therefore the Nyzam is going at it again.
So also is the Council of the British Medical Association most
properly. But when the question came before the Council I
pleaded that the enquiry should be conﬁned to a clinical investiga-
tion by competent surgeons, that we should have no more
misleading experiments on animals, and without a word of objection
my amendment was adopted.

It seems to me, therefore, that light upon this subject is coming
upon us. It seems a small matter, but I plead for the length of
my letter, that in the matter of the training of useful practitioners
of medicine it is really one of great importance.

I am, &c.,

LAWSON TAIT.

7, The Crescent, Birmingham, October 3rd, 1892. ‘

mama-1.”. .J—na .——— 4., .m s

 




