LORD LISTER AND EXPERIMENTATION.

A Reply.

 

 

AT Liverpool, on October 8th, 1898, Lord Lister, in opening new
laboratories for scientiﬁc research, endeavoured to explain away the ob-
jections to that peculiar and distasteful form of research known as
vivisection, Otherwise—"EXPERIMENTS ON THE LIVING ANIMAL. Ex-
perimentation covers a very wide ground; it may involve the most
terrible cutting operations; it may mean exposing the nerves and
stimulating them by electricity; it may be merely an inoculation
where, with a syringe having a ﬁne needle—like point, an incision,
like a pin prick, is made in the skin, and the virus (poison) of
some terrible, deadly disease, such as cholera, hydrophobia, diphtheria,
yellow fever, plague, etc., is squirted under the skin, and becomes
mingled with the blood. Such an experiment does not involve much
pain in the preliminary operation, but in a very few days the wretched
animal is thoroughly ill and suffering from a disease to which, in

4 , ordinary, everyday life, it is not liable—-an artiﬁcially—produced disease
of the laboratory, in imitation of the disease proper. This then becomes
-‘ a painful experiment, and while the fever is working its terrible power in
the unhappy creature who is the subject of it, be it dog or cat, cow or
~'calf, horse or donkey, rabbit or guinea-pig, rat or mouse, it is suffering
the tortures of the damned, without any anaesthetic such as chloroform
or ether, to lessen its sufferings. It is enclosed in a cage, wretched
and in pain, while the scientiﬁc men who have produced the
malady, and, compelled their unwilling, defenceless victim to suffer it,
'visit it day by day to study its symptoms, until DEATH, more kind than
MAN, releases the victim from the clutches of its cruel tormentors.

So, whether the experiment involves cutting a dog Open alive and
watching its organs after some drug has been administered to it, or
whether it means inoculating a cat or a calf with some deadly disease,
it is a form of scientiﬁc research repulsive and abhorrent to merciful and
humane minds.

Exploring the~ Inﬁnite Resources of Nature.

Let us now take Lord Lister’s points serfatz'm, as they are reported
in 2726 Times (London), October 10th :——

“As important as the services which the laboratories will
render to the education of medical practitioners will be the oppor-
tunities which they will afford for research. Every step in advance

 




 

in scientiﬁc knowledge only opens up wider ﬁelds for exploring the
inﬁnite resources of nature, and these laboratories will afford means
for the further prosecution of such beneﬁcent enquiries.”

Our reply to this is: That the provision of expensive laboratories
is no doubt of importance to the gentlemen who make scientiﬁc
research a hobby. The sentence quoted is a touching apology for
scientiﬁc Micawberism—the policy of waiting to see what will turn up.
No “step in advance in scientiﬁc knowledge” ever goes unchallenged,
even by the researchers. Their lust for Truth (P Experimentation) is
such that, no sooner does one experimenter announce his discovery of
something—it may be a minor and utterly valueless detail—than his fellow
researchers, not only in Britain, but on the Continent and in America,
set to work to disprove it. What is called "scientiﬁc knowledge” is
mainly theory, speculation, often far removed from fact. The accepted
truth of to-day is repudiated to-morrow, and scoffed at a year hence.
Meanwhile, experimentation goes on —— repetition after repetition.
Flourens (France) in one of his lectures, boasted (as Blatin heard him
say) that Majendie (Paris) had sacriﬁced 4,000 dogs to prove Sir Charles
Bell’s theory of the nerves, and 4,000 more to disprove it again; and
Flourens had added an enormous number further to prove it once more.
The experimenters are, as Lord Lister, in his beautiful phraseology,
says: “exploring the inﬁnite resources of nature.”

Death or Torture?

Lord Lister, continued :_

“ Some, perhaps, may be disposed to object to such researches,
because they involve the sacriﬁce of animal life. This, however, I
need hardly remark is as nothing compared to what occurs for the
supply of food to man.”

Many people object ‘ to the unnecessary taking of life. The
Buddhist never kills anything. But most people recognise that at times
it is a more or less painful necessity, though the taking of life is a
serious responsibility. No one will attempt to deny that a greater
regard for life as life, with all its mystery and in its beautiful and varied
forms, would tend to raise the moral tone of the community and reﬁne
human nature. What, however, the anti—vivisectionist objects to in
vivisection is not so much the taking of life by the experimenter, but
the torture, cruelty and suffering, which attend his “researches.” Of
course there are more animals killed in one day for human food and for
sport, than there are vivisected in the course ofa year. But the supreme
difference is this :—

SLAUGHTER and SPORT do aim at the speedy death of the animal.
The idea is to kill.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

3

VIVISECTION does not aim at immediate or speedy death, rather
the contrary, for the desire is to keep the animal alive—the
suffering involved is merely a detail to the experimenter—the
experiment is the thing, and an experiment may last for days,
weeks, or months.

The Fraud of Anaesthetics. Lord Lister Refuted.

LORD LISTER went on :—

“Of animal suffering I need hardly speak, because, in truth,
the actual pain involved in these investigations is commonly of the
most triﬂing description. Anaesthesia has come to the aid of experi-
ment on animals, just as the electric telegraph did for railways. I
am bound to add that antiseptic treatment of the wounds by prevent-
ing inﬂammation rendershealing painless, while it leaves the parts un-
complicated by inﬂammatory changes and allows the results of
operative procedures to be rightly estimated.

Let us take ﬁrst Lord Lister’s statement that the pain is “commonly
of the most triﬂing description.” Mark the word “commonly.” Com-
monly does not mean always. It may mean that in one case out of two,
or one case in ﬁve, the pain is of “the most triﬂing description.” But
what do other authorities say :—

Dr. F. BOREL, ex-chief of a hospital, wrote (Pall Mall Gazelle)
London, August 5th, 1888 :——“ Permit a vivisector, past and present and
future if it were necessary for the good of science and mankind, to tell
those good people who believe seriously that the animals experimented
on by M. Pasteur do not suffer, that they are deceiving themselves 3 my
experience of ﬁfteen years’ practice gives me the right formally to deny
the truth of that, I have vivisected birds, horses, frogs, rabbits, monkeys,
and above all dogs. . . .

“. . . It is nearly completely impossible to employ anaesthetics,

upon them so as to render them insensible. . . . the sufferings
of the animals are so great after the experiments that they are
altogether stupeﬁed. . .' . Any one who is accustomed to a laboratory,

to physiology, or to pathological experiments knows that animals suffer
when vivisected, and greatly, until death comes to deliver them.”

DR. HOGGAN.

Dr. GEORGE HOGGAN, who had vivisected both in Britain and in
France, wrote to the Speclaz‘ar (London) May 29th, 1875 : “I am inclined
to look upon anaesthetics as the greatest curse to vivisectible animals,”
and mainly because it is very difﬁcult to anaesthetise animals, as they
often die before they can become insensible. “The practical consequence
of this uncertainty is, that complete and conscientious anaesthesia is
seldom even attempted, the animal getting at most a slight whiff of
chloroform, by way of satisfying the conscience of the operator, and of
enabling him tomake statements of a humane character.”

 




 

4
DR. KLEIN.

Dr. EMMANUEL KLEIN, Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology, St.
Bartholomew’s Medical School, London, told the Royal Commission
(1875-6) that he did not “use chloroform, or any other anaesthetic, except
for convenience sake, in dogs and cats and for no other animals as a
general rule,” and from what he knew of British physiologists they shared
his Views. (Questions 3605——6).

WHEN ANfESTHETICS CAN NOT BE USED.

“We fearlessly afﬁrm that none of the following classes of experi- '

ments (each including innumerable operations, many of which involve
extreme torture), can be performed under complete and genuine
anaesthesia :—

1. Those experiments which are concerned with the reﬂex action
from the sensory nerves.

II. Those which are connected with the glandular secretions, the
liver, &c.

III. Those on the digestion.
IV. Those on the heart and circulation.
V. Toxicological experiments (poisons).

VI. All pathological experiments (consisting in the artiﬁcial in-
duction of disease).” From “Away/2612'“ and Vz'wlcea‘z'm” by George
Hoggan, M.D., May, 1885.

These statements are corroborated by the evidence of Prof. Lauder
Brunton, Sir George Burrows, M.D., Prof. Rutherford, Sir William
Fergusson, M.D., Dr. R. McDonnell, F.R.S., Sir Thomas Watson, M.D.,
Prof. William Pritchard, F.R.C.V.S., and others.

THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ANTI-SEPTICS AND ANZESTHETICS.

Further, Dr. John H. Clarke, a well-known West End (London)

physician, speaking of “ anti-septic surgery ” remarks truly that anti-septics ‘

are not anaesthetics.

“That it should be necessary to distinguish two things which have
nothing in common except a similarity in the sound of the name, is due
to the fact that Vivisectors have persistently traded on public ignorance,
and endeavoured, not without some success, to confuse the two in the
public mind. ‘The animals suffered little or no pain, since antiseptic
precautions were observed,’ is the kind of phrase generally met with.

“Antiseptics means a system of treating wounds so as to exclude
from them the germs of putrefaction.

“Anaesthetics are agents which deprive sentient creatures of sen-

sation.




5

“ Antiseptics do nothing whatever to deaden feeling. An operation
under antiseptic precautions is just as painful as without them. Before
the antiseptic theory was discredited as it now is, wounds treated
antiseptically during and after operation were supposed to heal more
rapidly than others, and this afforded the only crumb of excuse for those
who have confused the two terms; but even this crumb of excuse
exists no longer, since the theory and practice have been abandoned in
ordinary surgery.”

If anti-septic surgery has led to the saving of “many human
lives,” it is but right to point out that the greater cleanliness of hospital
wards and instruments, better ventilation and light, and greater
sanitary care, are more responsible for it than any of Lord Lister’s
achievements in this direction.

“Anaesthesia,” says Lord Lister, “has come to the aid of experi-
ments on animals.” Not to the animals as largely as is insinuated;
else why do experimenters obtain by scores from the Home Ofﬁce every
year Certiﬁcate A., absolving them from the use of anaesthetics?

Crocodile’s Tears.
Lord Lister concluded :
“ While I deeply respect the humane feeling of those who object
to this class of enquiry, I assure them that, if they knew the truth,
they would commend and not condemn them.”

W Are Anti-Vivisectionists to “commend and not condemn” the follow-
“ ing ?— two only out of numerous records of Vivisection as it really is:

No. I. Dr. Watson Cheyne, Professor of Surgery, King’s College,
London, and Surgeon, King’s College Hospital, describes some of his
own experiments thus :

(P. 645): "February II, 1882. Incisions were made antisepti-I
cally into the lumbar muscles on each side in a large rabbit. A
croton-oil tube was introduced on each side; the muscles and skin
were stitched over them with catgut . . . . the wounds healed

On April 6 (ﬁfty-four days later), the tubes were burst
by pressure. Swellings formed on each side, and on May 3 the
rabbit was killed. On making incisions through the skin and
muscles, large abscesses, containing cheesy pus, were found deeply
seated.

Stated in ordinary language, the experiment amounted to this :T—The
loins of the animal were cut open, and glass tubes ﬁlled Wlth an irritatmg
, liquid were embedded in the wounds , ultimately the tubes were broken,
and the liquid escaping diffused itself amongst the surroundlng tlssues,
producing intense irritation and extensive abscesses.

The experiment, in this and other forms, appears .to have been
tried on a considerable number of rabbits. The conditlon of one of
them is thus described 2——

‘ . . . The skin was involved in the gangrene, and the
whole became aputrid mass, full of organisms.”—Bm’tish Medical
journal, October 4th, 1882.

 




 

6

The vivisector’s reply to this is: That “muscles are almost insen-
sitive,” and that the abscesses caused were “ cold abscesses—altogether
painless.” Probably the rabbit, proud at being an auxiliary of science,
told the experimenter and his apologist so! But it is not necessary to
possess any surgical knowledge whatever to know that croton oil diffused
amongst the muscles along with pieces of broken glass must cause pain.
But if the experiment was sofaz'n/ess, why did not the experimenter or
his apologist try it on themselves? They could then have described
the pleasant sensations of croton oil and broken glass diffused in their
muscles, and it would have afforded much interesting reading I

No. II. Messrs. BAYLISS and HILL record in the journal. of
P/zysz'ologv (Vol. XVIII., p. 337, et seq.) their “Method of Research,”
on the circulation in the skulls of dogs. They say:

“Throughout the experiments morphia was the anmsthetic
used [but morphia is only a stupeﬁer, not an anaesthetic]. The
method of procedure of the experiments was as followsz—‘A
cannula was placed in the central end of the carotid artery. A
second long cannula was passed down the external jugular vein and
on the same side into the right auricle. The torcular Herophili
[the conﬂuence of the sinuses of the skull] was trephined and a third
cannula, this time of brass, was screwed into the hole this made [in
dog’s skull.] ’ ”

Then follows, in the words of the vivisectors, a description of a series
of terrible experiments on dogs whose throats were cut,whose blood—vessels
and hearts were penetrated by tubes, whose skulls were bored through,
whose chests were torn open and whose hearts were wrapped in wadding,
and whose nerves were cut and stimulated by electricity. All these
mutilations were performed under curare, and these things took place in
University College, London. “Tﬁmugﬁom‘ Z/ze experimem‘s, morpﬂz’a
was Me ancest/zelz'c used.” Would Lord Lister dam to perform a
similarly terrible operation on a human patient, and consider
morphia a sufﬁcient anaesthetic? Of course not, nor would any
other surgeon. And yet the vivisectors tell us that the animals are
treated with all the care and regard paid to human patients in
hospitals—not an iron cage, oh dear no! but a comfortable bed, a
medical man in attendancevto sooth the sufferer’s anguish, a nurse to cool
its fevered brow with Eau de Cologne, special food administered at
proper intervals, and the resources of civilisation generally.

”I weep for you, the walrus said,
I deeply sympathise,” &c.

Scientiﬁc Infallibility—and its Foundation.

Lord Lister is regarded by the bulk of the Press as the infallible
Pope of Science. Let us test this infallibility. He is acclaimed by the
public as the discoverer of the anti-septic treatment, and is appraised
accordingly. But that belief is not founded on fact, nor is it shared by
all the' members of the medical profession.

 

 




 

 

Dr. ]. H. Clarke says :

“Déclat, not Lister, was the inventor of the antiseptic treat-
ment. In 1882, Dr. Marion Sims, at a meeting of the Academy
of Medicine of New York, ascribed the invention of anti—septic treat-
ment to Lister, whereupon Déclat addressed a letter to the
President of the Academy claiming the honour for himself. He says
in this letter that he sent a copy of his book on “ Carbolic Acid,"
published in 1865, to Sir J. Y. Simpson in Edinburgh, and he
maintains that this (not sewage) was the source of Lister’s informa-
tion on the subject. Lister ﬁrst used carbolic acid in 1867~— that is,
six years after it had been in use by Déclat. The facts were also
communicated by Déclat to Simpson by letter, and this led Simpson
to accuse Lister of plagiarism. Moreover, Pasteur himself, in his
”Etudes sur la Biére,” 1876, page 44, says :—“ Dr. Déclat has
founded a complete treatment of infectious diseases on the employ-
ment of one of the best of antiseptics—carbolic acid.” In the ofﬁcial
report of the Academy of Sciences of Paris, of March 11th, I878,
Professor Sédillot ascribed to Dr. Déclat the priority of the invention
of the anti—septic method.

On Declat’s death the M20 York [Medical Times (Jan, 1897) said :

“ He was the originator of the anti-septic method of treatment in
medicine and surgery. The antiseptic method has nearly banished
puerperal fever and gangrene from the hospitals._ . . . He initiated
the antiseptic method in advance of the times, and excited many
enemies by the warmth with which he upheld views, since cor-
roborated by bacteriologists.”

Dr. Campbell Black, M.D., F.R.S.Ed. ex—Professor of Physiology
in Anderson’s College, Med. School, Glasgow, Sept. 18th, 1896, said
in the Medical P7655 aml Ciicalar, Sept. 30th, 1896,

“ ‘ Listerism’ is as dead as Queen Anne, and not one day too soon.
It was a fad from the commencement, followed by the obsequious
crowd, who pose as scientists cm com/ant with the age. It has gone
the way of many another fad in medicine and surgery. It and its
congener, the germ theory, on which it was based, have done an
immense amount of mischief to medical science, causing a diversion
from the only true basis of medical and surgical science, Viz., physio—
logical chemistry and anatomy, and bringing undeserved ridicule
and contempt on the fractional part of real science to which modern
medicine could justly pretend.”

Dr. George Granville Bantock wrote in the Medical Press aaa7
Circular, October 7th, 1896:—

“ Listerism was . . . a deﬁnite doctrine and practice,
which it is not to-day. Not only has the spray ﬁnally disappeared
from the operation room, but it may be afﬁrmed that, on the con-

 




8

tinents of Europe and America, where the doctrine was accepted
with marked enthusiasm, there is scarcely to be‘found an operator
of any note who uses any antiseptic substance as applied by Lister.”

And LORD LISTER himself, the much-belauded inventor of the
carbolic spray, told a medical congress at Berlin :—

“ As regards the spray, I feel ashamed that I should have ever
recommended it for the purpose of destroying the microbes of the
air.”——See British Medicaljournal, August 16th, I890, pp. 378-9.

Under the circumstances, seeing that Lord Lister’s authorityis
doubted by the more independent members of the medical profession,
who decline to become mere azez‘omala, anti—vivisectionists are justiﬁed in
sharing the medical and philosophic doubts of the authorities quoted
and the others who have also dared to doubt.

We cannot accept Lord Lister’s statements as to what trans-
pires in the scores of laboratories in Britain. His lordship knows
no more what goes on there than the Archbishop of Canterbury
knows what is preached in the various pulpits in the Church of
England. He is, therefore, not in a position to speak as if invested.
with infallibility. Nor will he narcotise our consciences, or lead us to
slacken our efforts. The revealed facts of the laboratories, like the
hand of Time, are against Lord Lister, and they arise to confute him.

S. G. TRIST,

(Editor of 2726 Am’mals’ Friend.)

“ Lord Lister was overcome by the unmerited praise Dr. Virchow
gave him as the deviser of methods of cleanliness in surgery for
which ‘ he will always be reckoned amongst the greatest benefactors
of the human race.’ The carbolic acid spray by which, and not by
cleanliness, Professor Virchow’s ‘ old friend’ attained to fame and
fortune was mercifully not alluded to, as it has long been discarded
by the profession and has been repudiated by its inventor, who, in
Virchow’s own city of Berlin, confessed himself ashamed of having
proposed it. With a lively consciousness of this, the noble chairman
must have felt a thrill of relief and gratitude to the lecturer that he
abstained from any allusion to the unfortunate spray and credited
his lordship with having invented something to which he had no
claim.”—-DR. R. E. DUDGEON, in The Homeopathic World.

 

 

 

PUBLISHED BY
THE LONDON ANTI-YIYISECTION SOCIETY,
Treasurer : DR. WALL. Hon. Sec. : MRS. F. C. JAMES. See. : S. G. TRIST.
32, SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.
Pricegd; per dozen, 6d.; per 100, 33; post free.

 




