l 7 . o civilization is complete Which does not “$3

, include Within its phere of charity and mercy, '
the dumb and defenceless of God’s creatures.”
—Queen Victoria.

”THE CRUELTIES OF TRAPPING
AND WHO IS RESPONSIBLE

OR

The Cost of Your Furs in Torture and Death

Report of Agent of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. ,Returned from a Two Months’ Trip
Photographing Animals Trapped for Their Fur, Edited and Summarized .
by President Francis H. Rowley

NY way you look at it, trapping animals as universally practised
with the steel jump- trap is a brutal and brutalizing business.
Every humane person and animal lover ought to work for the

abolishing by law of this instrument of torture, the most cruel ever
invented by man in causing suffering among wild animals.

 

 

 

 

Fig. 1. A STEEL TRAP—MAN’S CRUELEST DEVICE

The vast majority of all animals trapped for their fur are caught by
the leg. These suffer until they die from pain and exhaustion, or are
shot or clubbed to death by the trapper. Must not the fur trade and
those who wear ornamental furs ask themselves if this is playing the
game of life fair? (See Fig. 2)

Between the trapper with his torturing trap and the wearer of furs,
where is the line of responsibility to be drawn? The bulk of fur caught
goes to “Vanity Fair,” and its use is not an absolute necessity. Much
of it is worn for personal adornment, and, whether seen or not, the
blood-stain of these wretched victims of the trap is on the hands of all
who trafﬁc in their skins or wear them.

Kind deeds outlive marble monuments and' i

1 remain when all else perishes. They are the

lbeautiful gems and frag1 nt ﬂowers of life,
and are pearls strung for ternlty ' , .

.4 ' , ,. 1,1;

 




You who enjoy the luxury of wearing furs, sit down with me in some
warm and quiet corner and journey, in imagination, into the frozen
North Woods’ country, a hundred miles from the nearest settlement,
and let us learn something of the methods by which these furs are
obtained.

In this region whither our thought has carried us it is 25 degrees
below zero. The snow is three feet deep. Even the hardy denizens of the
thicket cannot stand the cold unless they keep moving. There are
thousands of them in these north wood’s this bitter night that are clamped
by the leg with steel-jawed traps and frczen stiff as an icicle in the little
circles allowed by their trap chains, the mates, maybe, of those who once
bounded through the forests under the furs lying by your side. Look
at them with their wide-open, gasping
mouths rigid in death, and with their
staring eyes whose lids are unclosed
even as the awful cold froze them.
( See Fig. 3)

I said thousands. Tens of thou-
sands would be nearer the truth, be-
cause for every fur-bearing animal
trapped, whose skin has a commercial
value, a dozen are liable to be caught
whose skins have no value. They are
part of the woods’ folk, however, and
add to the story of pain and woe their
unreckoned burden of lingering anguish.

ANY WAY YOU LOOK AT IT

The steel trap is one of the most
inhuman inventions, as it is from a
business point of view the most effi-
cient for the purpose intended. A
lynx, a fox or a bear is as helpless in
it as a squirrel, but its sufferings
are increased because it is tougher.

If trapped animals do not die from
starvation, fever or freezing before
the trapper arrives, they are clubbed
\ or shot to death. A club, however,
Fig.2, HANGING BY LEG FROM TRAP makes no holes and burns no fur.

(See Fig. 4)

Squirrels are the trappers’ greatest nuisance and thousands of them
get caught by mistake, yet they suffer as well as the sable, otter, fox or
mink. I’ve seen the (worthless?) squirrels, the rabbits, weasels and
hedgehogs mangled all out of shape in wicked—looking steel traps set
for ﬁsher, and again I have seen them caught by the hip, or perhaps both
hind legs, squirming in agony until death or some other animal destroys
them, or they freeze stiff, or a mad trapper appears who, after damning
them for upsetting his plans, kills them.

A DOUBLE CRIME

The suffering that fashion causes these trapped creatures of the
woods, then, falls not only upon those whose skins are used but as well
2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




upon thousands who die utterly in vain. The bulk of this cruelty
would cease if women, for pity’s sake, ceased to wear furs and turned
to some of the beautiful substitutes that are so easily to be had where
one demands them. Back of the trap—maker, the trapper, trader, furrier,
wholesaler and retailer, is the fur wearer in our great cities. This’is
the one who would be ﬁrst summoned into court and made to face his
suffering, tormented victim, if wild animals had the power to compel
the punishment of their deadliest foes.

It is no exaggeration to say that 25 per cent. of the wild creatures
caught in steel traps are “ﬂukes,”—that is, they are either birds, animals
whose pelts are worthless, domestic cats and dogs, or animals who

 

 

 

Fig. 3. FOX CAUGHT AT LAST BY THE PITILESS TRAP

bite or twist their legs off and go free. There are no “ﬂukes,” however,
in regard to the sufferings that are endured. (See Fig. 5)

Fifteen per cent. of trapped animals chew or twist off their legs and
get away. I have photographed the bitten—off feet of wild animals in
traps, gripped as in a vise, the frozen tendons sticking out, showing how
they gnawed themselves free. Then think of what it must mean of sub-
sequent pain to hobble off into the woods on three legs, perhaps through
two or three feet of snow, or over a thin crust that breaks at every step,
the thermometer 20° below zero. Many a mother animal while her
wounded leg is healing has to get a living for herself and young. (See
Fig. 6)

It is no uncommon thing to strike the trail of these unfortunates in
the snow; three sound footprints and one pathetic little impression of

3

 




a stump. I have photographed trapped animals having only three legs.
Many of them thus go through a second hell of misery. (See Fig. 7)
Consider for a moment the story of that beautiful ermine skin that
my lady loves to wear. These little creatures are difﬁcult to catch, their
movements are so swift, and then the fur must not be injured or stained
with blood. Pieces of iron, often the hunter’s knife blade, are coated
with grease and placed in winter where the ermine, or weasel, can ﬁnd
them. They lick the grease and then the intense cold of the metal
causes the tongue to freeze fast to it. From this there is no escape

save by pulling the tongue out by the roots.
DAYS AND WEEKS OF SUFFERING

Often it is weeks, perhaps two or three, before traps are visited and
the animals released. The 24-hour law, wherever it exists, is a farce.
It is a physical impossibility for anyone to visit a line of 50 to 100 traps
in the stipulated time, and it is for no trapper’s interest to have human
scent around his traps with too great frequency.

In severe winter weather the majority of trapped animals not caught
and drowned under water, freeze to death or wrench or gnaw off a leg
and get free. In warmer weather they suffer intensely from thirst as
well as pain, and this suffering for water in the fevered state they

  

 

«a 4.)

"8'83 3 "S *5
‘ 52540 O :6 3
a USO-l G) ‘H Q) 0
Fur-cs“) so. ‘4 0"”
iF—‘F'.~E 030 HO)
.ngo >1: (.5 ULQ
s—chh a: .0")
+9>c6 "‘34:” '13 on
43:60.: $08 '2 “3
1—50“? CU-J-‘h-C: O "043
HEEL“ 04-) B 00
'Q 33:: @273 a) 43°
5128.“, H'H'H ,5: mo
:2er spa 4.1.544
wise» 3.2m. ._. w
lgfé‘ﬂﬁ 28:3 O “’8
was“ Qua” a 7%“
(13> S mmd) 5:: (Us
p""" ——
.°233 £93 3 am
'wm—C’U~.083pp.h3
“QOQE>OOH 93>,
.Mqucc.~mg—QOM>FOU
:qg'Uo—Q o-QGQEO 5-.
>13 m,m—Cor-«Em;:p.qgm
GNU) B and O
o—‘QQ‘ CO CV3 .58
smog} 13mm“ a)

H F... 0 Fa“

m J:
WBOHO meﬂ E 09

 

 

Fig. 4. THE CLUB FINALLY ENDS THE VICTIM’S AGONIES

develop in mild weather, is one of the most inhuman features of trapping.

The discoloration of their ﬂesh when skinned, and its watery condition,

indicate the sufferings through which they have passed. Often the entire

skin is ruined by the blood-poisoning that has corrupted the whole body.

Very little fur is worn among people in the North Woods unless it

is sheepskin, and sheepskin is becoming more popular every year, the
4

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

wool side being worn next to the body. The general preference, however,
is for cloth. There is very little fur in use among the rank and ﬁle of
women in the cold north country. They are too sensible and prudent.

 

 

 

—_

 

 

Fig. 5. THOUSANDS OF SMALL ANIMALS CAUGHT WHOSE SKIN IS NOT WAN TED

It is the city women whose love for adornment and whose delight in
beautiful furs have created the demand that is back of the horrors of

trapping.

Can any serious, thoughtful man or woman who will be honest with
his or her own conscience deny the incomparably nobler spirit, above
that of the one whose personal pleasure is placed ﬁrst, of her who could

write :

“T he same Force fashioned the sparrow
That fashioned Man, the King,
The God of the Whole gave a spark of soul
To each furred and feathered thing;
And I am my brother’s keeper,
And I will ﬁght his ﬁght

THE CROWN OF KINDNESS

And when our day’s work is over and each
servant comes home in the evening, when he
stands before the Judge and waits His word
What is to be the law by which you and I shall
be approved or condemned? It will not be
our knowledge or our cleverness, nor shall it
be our creeds nor our professions; for none of
these thlngs shall be once mentioned then.

. As the Judge, who cares for no favor and sees

through all pretences, considers each lif

bids glad, full welcome to those who iftiili:
lower llfe, .amid all their mistakes and failings
have cherished a warm heart; and so at last
the Crown IS placed on the brow of ' Kindness.

last and bird
hings right.”

PING 0)

e forbidden by law and humane
trade would ﬁnd some way of
n the market which kill animals
he “jump” trap which catches

 

 




 

 

 

 

wool side being worn next to the body. The general preference, however,
is for cloth. There is very little fur in use among the rank and ﬁle of
women in the cold north country. They are too sensible and prudent.

 

 

 

Fig. 5. THOUSANDS OF SMALL ANIMALS CAUGHT WHOSE SKIN IS NOT WAN TED

It is the city women whose love for adornment and whose delight in
beautiful furs have created the demand that is back of the horrors of
trapping. - .
Can any serious, thoughtful man or woman who will be honest With
his or her own conscience deny the incomparably nobler sp1r1t, above
that of the one whose personal pleasure is placed ﬁrst, of her who could
write:
“The same Force fashioned the sparrow
That fashioned Man, the King,
The God of the Whole gave a spark of soul
To each furred and feathered thing;
And I am my brother’s keeper,
And I will ﬁght his ﬁght
And speak the word for beast and bird
Till the world shall set things right.”

HUMANE TRAPPING ('9)
(See Fig. 8)

If the use of inhuman steel traps were forbidden by law and humane
killing of fur animals required, the fur trade would ﬁnd some way of
meeting the situation. There are traps in the market which kill animals
instantly and are fully as efﬁcient as the “jump” trap which catches

5

 




 

 

animals by the leg and prolongs their sufferings, but trappers refuse to
use them to any extent. (See Fig. 9) They are familiar with the old
style which perhaps costs a triﬂe less and gives a little more latitude in
trapping operations. Trappers are not counting the cost in suffering
to an animal, for parting with its skin. Their eyes are so ﬁrmly glued
on the latest raw—fur quotations, that they can’t see humaneness, al-
though many of them have double vision in the former respect. They will
sentimentalize over an injured pet cat or dog, but gloat over the suffer-
ings of a trapped fur animal. Thousands of them are under the delusion
that trapping is sport, and the inﬂiction of pain on wild animals a manly
act justifying any amount of boasting and some of them have their
pictures taken, posed among the pelts of their victims.

Thousands of these trappers have argued themselves into the belief
that their business is not fundamentally brutal and wrong.

 

 

 

 

Fig. 6. MINK’S FOOT GNAWED OFF AND LEFT

I called on a trapper one Sunday morning to get some points, but
he excused himself as he was going to church, yet that man had out a
line of 100 traps. God help him, there in his pew, trying to square
himself with the Eternal while a dozen creatures of the wild were
agonizing in his traps! Why shall we not also say, God help the fur-
bedecked women in our churches, too, wearing as their adornment, the
products of this heartless butchery, and who are doing nothing—abso-
lutely nothing—to lessen the unspeakable torment of these children
of the wood lured by man to that inferno of torture that awaits them
in the trap’s remorseless grip! ,

A very small fraction of the money and thought expended on furs,
if devoted to humane work in behalf of wronged and abused animals,
would stop a large part of their needless suffering.

6

 

i 11-—

(g...




Though in violation of law there are men who do not hesitate to
scatter poison where fur-bearing animals can ﬁnd it. One such, in its
dying moments, we photographed. (See Fig. 10)

CONSERVATION NEEDED

In my opinion the things that will lessen the sufferings of these
creatures are, enforcement by law of the use of humane traps; re-
striction to methods that catch animals alive; a closer season for
trapping; protection of females; elimination of boy trappers who mostly
catch worthless pelts, out of season; a radical advance in the cost of
trapping licenses; the number of traps
to be so limited by law to each in-
dividual trapper that he may be able
V . and required to visit each once during
the hours of daylight; rigorous super-
vision Of traps and trapping by game
wardens, inspectors and agents of
humane societies; and the encourage-
ment of substitutes for furs.

There is another side to this whole
question. A little book has just been
published by John F. Draughon, of
Nashville, T enn., on “Fur-Bearing
Animals as the Farmer’s Best Friends.”
He calls attention to the bulletins of
the U. S. Department of Agriculture
which state that eighty million dollars
worth of damage is done each year
to crops and fruit and forest trees by
ﬁeld-mice, ground squirrels, moles,
pocket gophers and grasshoppers, and
that these pests constitute from 80
to 90 per cent. of the food of foxes
and other fur-bearing animals, such
as wolves, lynxes, badgers, raccoons,
opossums, skunks, minks, weasels and
shrews. The .warning therefore is

Fig. 7. MINK HAD ESCAPED BY GNAWING given by the Department that, unless
OFF LEG—CAUGHT AGAIN a check is put upon the killing of
foxes, skunks, raccoons, and the like,
the farmer will continually ﬁnd it harder to reap the reward of his toil.
Even if occasionally a chicken is taken from the hen-yard by fox or
skunk, the assurance is given that the farmer might better far pay this
toll than kill the robber.

a} ' Probably no agency is more competent to bring about these reforms
than the American Humane Education Society of Boston, Massachu-
setts, whose constituency is everywhere and whose propaganda is carried
“V far and Wide. Gifts of money are needed to enable the Society to
prosecute a thoroughgoing, pictorial, publicity campaign to mould
public Opinion and so to secure the desired laws. There are so many
conﬂicting interests in the fur trade that they need some outside help to

i, regulate greedy buyers and trappers.

F'

I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 8. FOR MINK, SKUNK, COON, ETC. SAID TO KILL ANIMAL INSTANTLY

From a humane point of view there should be no compromise with
the cruel steel trap. Human ingenuity has balked at nothing in the line
of invention when proﬁts were at stake. Prizes for humane traps, so
far as we know, have never been offered. It ought to be done. While
there are traps more humane than the “jump” or leg trap, this is about
all one can say. A prize sufﬁciently large for a humane trap would
set some of the best inventive brains of the country to work on this
problem.

Who will give this subject thought? It is time this crime against
civilization should be stopped. Tens of thousands of school children
have been “egged on” by the editors of many agricultural journals to
engage in the cruel trapping of animals. It is plain to see from the
letters these children write to trapping periodicals and the various news-
papers that not a few of them will end their days as criminals if their
brutal impulses continue to dominate their lives. You can’t sow cruelty
in a child’s character without reaping lawlessness. One lad writes the
Springﬁeld, Massachusetts, Republican under date of January ‘2, 1912:
“I pick up quite a sum of money by setting steel traps; when a boy
retires for the night, after saying his prayers, the one thought uppermost

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 9. THIS TRAP, WITHOUT TEETH, IF PADDED, WOULD BE AN IMPROVEMENT, BUT
IT IS NOT WORTHY OF BEING CALLED HUMANE

8




 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 10. FOX ABOUT TO DIE FROM EFFECTS OF POISON

in his mind is, will I get them in the morning.” This sort of “sport,”
GOd save the mark, can only demoralize and brutalize the nature.
It is true probably that 90 per cent. of the voters have no love for,

 

 

 

Fig. 11. THE WAIL OF A TORTURED FOX
9

 




nor interest in, the steel trap, and would forbid its use by law if the
school children of America demanded it. The Band of lVIercy children
throughout the United States could emancipate our wild creatures from
the brutality of trapping if they undertook it in dead earnest. These
Bands are increasing at the rate of hundreds each month. There
have been organized over 85,000 of them. This humane army, led
forward into battle for humane achievement, has scarcely any limit to
its power.

Nothing can be so important in ending the cruelties of trapping and
other bitter wrongs inﬂicted upon animals as humane education. Once
given a generation trained in the principles ofjustice and kindness toward .
all sentient life, and the day of man’s inhumanity both to man and beast
will be fast passing away. Give us money enough to push this work of
humane education out into every state, town, hamlet of the land, and
more than by any other means will that time be hastened.

 

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 45 Milk Street, Boston.
Mass. . Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.
Price $2.00 per hundred, postpaid.

10

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

HUMANE LITERATURE

The following publications of the American Humane Education
Society are for sale at 45 Milk Street, Boston, at these prices, postpaid:

BOOKS
The Humane Idea, by Francis H. Rowley, 72 pp. ........ cloth, 25 cts.
The Birds of God, by Theron Brown, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $91.00
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, by Ida Kenniston, 150 pp. ..... boards, 58 cts.
Beautiful Joe, illus., $51.25; cloth, 62 cts. ............... small, 30 cts.
Only a Dog, or Our Pet, 191 pp ......................... cloth, 35 cts.
Black Beauty, 245 pp., paper, 9 cts. . .. ................. cloth, 20 cts.
For Pity’s Sake, 191 pp., paper, 10 cts. ................. cloth, 20 cts.
The Lady of the Robins, 194 pp., paper, 10 cts. .......... cloth, 20 cts.
Our Gold Mine at Hollyhurst, 154 pp., paper, 8 cts. ..... cloth, 20 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, 91 pp., paper, '7 cts. ............. cloth, 20 cts.
LEAFLETS AND CARDS

The Horse’s Prayer .................................. 315 .25 per 100
The Horse’s Prayer, large post-card ................... 3.00 “ “
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 2 cents each, or ........... 2.00 “ “
The Checkrein, 8 pp .................................. 1.00 “ “
How to Treat a Horse ................................ .30 “ “
The Care of Mules ................................... .30 “ “
The Cruelties of Trapping, 10 pp. .................... 2.00 “ “
Slaughter—House Reform, by Dr. Rowley, 37 pp. ....... .10 each
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 16 pp. ............... 2.00 per 100
Hints on the Care of Cows ....... , ..................... .30 “ “
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card ................. 1.00 “ “
Man’s Faithful Friend (dog) ......................... .30 “ “
Mollie IVhitefoot’s Vacation (cat) .................... .30 “ “
Woman’s Indifference .............................. .20 “ “
An Appeal to Every Woman ................ ' ......... .30 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...................... .30 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ........................... .30 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness and Cruelty ................ .30 ” “
Twelve Lessons on Kindness to Animals, 32 pp. ......... .30 “ ‘"

Humane Education, What to Teach and How to Teach It, .30 “ “

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

An illustrated, monthly humane magazine for all the family. $1.00
per year.
Agents wanted everywhere. Sample copies free.

Address, MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

45 MILK STREET, BOSTON
11

 




 




