 

 

 

 

 

 

December, 1936 Price 362'.

THE

ANIMALS
I IEN :1.

Photo by: [National Parks Branch, Ontario

“I f W’irzter CalrzeI‘————”

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
1 FEATHERSTONE BUILDINGS, HIGH ’ HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.l

Subscription for One Y ear, p05? free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is puhlished monthly [7} the
High Holhorn, London,

I Featherstone Buildings,

Tational Council for Aniinals’ Welfare at
W.C.I, and all communications regarding the

magazine should he addressed to the Editor

Editor :

ROBERT H. SPURRIER.

 

 

 

Vol. XLll December, 1936 NO. 12
C O N T E N T S .
Page Page
INCREASE IN CRUELTY. ]. L. Cather . . 412 HUM ANE EDUCATION IN A FLOATING

DESTRUCTION OF WILD LIFE FOR FUR.

Betty Ardron _ . . . 414
VIC. Harper C0797, F..C GS. . . 415
“CAST YOUR BREAD —” IV. Neaz'e

Par/éer . . . . . . 417
MISSIONARY SOCIETIES AND VIVISECTION.

R. H Spurrier . 418
ROBERT BUCHANAN. Basil Harirey—[anies . 419
ANIMAL POETRY. Paul Better/i, translated

h)! Marion Reid . 420

FROM ONLOOKER’ S NOTE BOOK. Onloo/éer 422
RABBITS AND GIN TRAPS. C. W. Huine . 42 3
A CLEVER BOSTON CAT. W. L. Parsons . 425
CLEVER COCKATOOS. Helen fones
CARTOON. W. Neaoe Parker .

 

Why Charlie Quit.

For twelve years a man in California had been a
trapper. Now he is through and has pulled up his
trap lines to prove it, says Nature Magazine. The
following story tells why he decided to quit:

Charlie was making his rounds and as he approached
a coyote trap he heard moans. Creeping through the
brush he discovered a cinnamon bear cub, its forefoot
fast in the trap. The mother bear was nursing the
youngster and another cub was looking on much
puzzled. Charlie’s ﬁrst impulse was to free the cub,
but a mad mother bear promised to be too much for
one trapper with a pistol. Besides, he wanted to free
the cub, not injure the family. The only way he could
see was to put the cub out of its misery, so he went for
his riﬂe and ﬁnally did what he felt was best. Rearing
on her heels at the sound of the shot, the mother bear,
growling in anger, circled about trying to ﬁnd the
attacker. Charlie crawled away and took to his heels.

“ I’m through with traps,” he declared. “ The
mother’s moans when I shot the cub were too human.
I’m done, boys; that made me sick.”

(From Our Dun/h Animals)

410

VILLAGE. Lydia S. Eliott . . 428
A BIRD WATCHER’S DIARY. Hudson Read 429
THE INDIAN WEAVER BIRD. Ronald S ins/air 429
SOME NEw ANIMAL BOOKS . 430
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WEL—

FARE . . . 452
“ CONSCIENTIOUS CONVICTION.” R. H. S. 455

NATIONAI SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS . 454
PIT PONIES PROTECTION SOCIETY . 435

I EAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL
SPORTS , 456
HUMANF EDUCATION SOCIETY . 4 37

SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF

 

VIVISECTION . 45 8
CORRESPONDENCE - 43 9
Sanctuary.

In less than two years’ time a strange story, pieced
together from these ﬁrSt—hand reports over widely
separated districts, began to shape itself. To those
who read them three thousand miles away, the in-
ference seemed at ﬁrst incredible, but as the months
went on and evidence grew and grew, there was no
doubt about it—the wild life was coming back. One
after another the diaries told the same tale.

“ Seen a bunch of sheep to—day ” ; “ deer seem to be
getting more plentiful”; “ noticed three goats on
Mount Kereslin, ﬁrst I have ever seen there ” ;
appear to be coming back, many signs of new cuttings ”
“ moose and caribou from outside the boundaries are
coming into the park.”

So it went, piling up evidence from all areas in the
parks. The only possible explanation seemed to be
that the wild things had arrived at the knowledge that
within certain areas no trap would be set, no gun ﬁred,
no poison left by the drinking pool. The great
persecution was over. Man was willing to be friends.
And since man was willing to be magnanimous, with
equal magnanimitv the animals responded.

(M. B. Williams in Guardians of the Wild.)

“ beaver

""3... -. ._
\.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

December, I 93 6

Notes and Comments
A Happy Christmas.

This is a greeting over which one hesitates to-day
for more reasons than one. One reason, however,
is that it has become so traditional, so customary,
so automatic, that it might almost be described as a
mass reaction to the season of the year we are approach—
ing rather than the expression of
sincere goodwill informed by
the spirit of understanding and
peace. When it is thus offered
with purpose and intent, then
surely it has its place and a
true value.

I come in the little things,
saith the Lord.
Yea, on the glancing wings of
eager birds,
The softly pattering feet of
furred and gentle beats,
I come to meet your hard and

     

.‘l A wayward heart.
d’W In bright brown eyes that

peep from out the nest
brake,
I stand confessed.
On every nest, Where featheryI patience is content to brood
And leaves her pleasure for the high emprise of
Motherhood——
There doth m} Godhead rest.

Immanence—Evelyn Underhill.

Poison Gas and Animals.

“ Even if you make the people safe from poison gas
attacks, what are you going to do about the animals ?—
their plight would be pitiable.” This question was
asked by a speaker, Mr. D. Watts, of Hawkshurst,
Kent, at a meeting held to celebrate the ﬁrst anniversary
of the Anti-Poison Gas Association, held in Glasgow
on October 28th. It is not only in war, unhappily,
that animals suffer from poison gas attacks. Experi-
ments on animals with poison gas are included in our
national “ peace ” time activities. So long as we do
nothing about this, we surely have no right or reason
to complain if we ourselves should suffer the agonies
of poison gas bombardment and suffocation—or to
ask, as some do, “ Why does God allow this?”

The Stores and Performing Animals.

It is with great regret that we ﬁnd that certain large
stores in London and the provinces are again resorting
to the exhibition of captive and performing animals
and circus exhibitions as a Christmas attraction.

We think these shows singularly unhappy and ill-
timed, but they will be staged just so long as they
continue to be proﬁtable to‘business'. Unless the
directors and managers of such stores can be convinced
that they lose custom, rather than gain it, by this
method of advertisement, this form of animal exploita-
tion will persist. Will all readers of THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND who have decided that they will never spend
a penny at stores where animals are exploited in this
fashion, at least take the pains to write to the manage-
ment to acquaint them with their decision? We
understand that a strong protest was entered by
Captain MacMichael and others against the performing
animal turns at Gamage’s circus.

411

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

“ Sportsmen ” Break Sanctuary.

The following incident was recorded in the Penritb
Observer of November 10th last :—

A fox which was hunted by the Coniston pack
last Wednesday, was locked in the sitting-room
at Nether House, Longsleddale, near Kendal, until
the hunt arrived.

Mrs. William Sutton, who was in the house with
children and a servant, heard a scratching at the front
door, and found the fox outside. Remembering that
she had lost some ducks a few days ago, she let it
into the house and locked it in the sitting—room to
await the arrival of the Master and pack.

These arrived about three hours later, and while
the dogs were kept at a distance Mr. Bruce Logan,
Master of the Coniston foxhoundsfwent into the
house and turned out the fox, who, after another
fast run, was dispatched near the river.

Mrs. Sutton said the fox was very peaceful as it lay
on the hearthrug.

“Although I was rather afraid at ﬁrst, the fox
did not prove at all troublesome,” she said, “ and
when I went into the room on two occasions it
appeared quite friendly. The Master of the pack has
promised me the skin.”

A newscutting was sent to the Editor of THE
ANIMALS’ FRIEND with these words written in the
margin :— Fox asks sanctuary; trusts woman and the
sanctuary is broken. Any excuses possible? ”

“ Ann’s Dog.”

This is the title of an educational ﬁlm prepared by
the University of London Animal Welfare Society
acting in cooperation with the Deeside Animal Welfare
Society. U.L.A.W.S. agreed to undertake the entire
production of the ﬁlm, based on a scenario into which
were woven points on the management of the dog
in the home and approved from the veterinary stand—
point by Sir Frederick Hobday. The ﬁlm was shown
privately on November 2nd.

By this production U.L.A.W.S. enters on a new line
of educational work—a line that opens up a vast ﬁeld
for further activities, providing that adequate ﬁnancial
support is forthcoming to carry it through successfully.
\W e offer our congratulations to the Societies concerned.

“ Guardians of the Wild.”

“ The buffalo is a boulder in motion, the elk a
moving tree.” This striking epigram is taken from
the wonderful story of the Canadian National Parks
(reviewed on p. 430) by M. B. Williams. It was Miss
Williams who contributed the articles on the National
Parks and Sanctuaries of Canada to the May and June
numbers of this year’s ANIMALs’ FRIEND. In Guardians
of the Wild, the fascinating story, of which she was
able only to give an outline in the ANIMALs’ FRIEND
articles, is presented from many aspects, including that
of the dramatic rescue from extinction of the elk,
buffalo, and antelope. On the ﬂy-leaf is the quotation
from Edward Carpenter : “ I see a great land waiting
for its own people to come and take possession of it.”
Surely this is a message to us and the people of our
own land.

This book is beautifully written—it is a delight to
read. Along with Harper Cory’s Lovable Beasts it should
be one of the most favoured gift books of its kind this

season.
R. H. S.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

December, I 93 6

Increase in Cruelty—A Challenge

(Addrem given by Commander ]. L. Catber, R.N.——Hon. Seeretary of tire National Council for Animalr’ W/elfare,

London—~at toe Conferenee on “ T/Je Inereare of Cruelty During One Hundred Yearr,” at tbe Great Central Hotel,

Belfast, on Tueralay, zotn Oetober, 1936, during toe Centenary Commemoration Week (f t/Je Ulster Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Animalr.)

HE written history of the human race——

I so far as we know of it—covers a period

. of perhaps ﬁve to six thousand years;
the domination of animals by man extends
backwards over an unknown space of time;
but it is safe to say that at no time since they
co—existed on this planet, have animals been
exploited, either in manner or degree, so
continuously, so remorselessly, or so com-
pletely as to—day. Our civilisation is, in fact,
founding itself upon the exploitation of animals
as past civilizations were founded upon the
enslavement of men; and it is an exploitation
which includes every kind of cruelty from
simple killing to the protracted tortures of
trapping and physiological research, and
which is carried on on every pretext from that
of self—protection to that of .mere amusement.
Animal ﬂesh is demanded for food, animal
skins for adornment, animal targets for sport;
knowledge is sought “ for its own sake,” or
in hope of ﬁnding human escape from self—
inﬂicted disease. So animals are slaughtered,
trapped, shot, tormented. Industry must be
served, pets are desired for companionship.
So animals are worked to breaking point,
discarded and exported overseas, or bred
according to some prevailing fashion and the
unwanted surplus destroyed. We must be
interested and amused. So animals are
caught, caged, trained and harried for zoos,
circuses and ﬁlms. IV/oateoer our aims, the
result to animals is loss of liberty, terror,
pain, death, inﬂicted yearly upon hundreds
of millions of sentient and defenceless creatures.
The subject of this Conference is “ The
Increase of Cruelty during One Hundred
Years.” It may be well to emphasize that
“ Cruelty ” in this sense is a far wider term
than that which the past century and a half of
education and legislation has described as
“ Cruelty to Animals.” This expression has
really meant, until quite recently, ‘_“'Visibl'e
Cruelty to Domesticated Animals,” and even
so has been of limited application. We have
done little for the protection of 'wild animals.
We have learned to detest and have tried

412

to suppress the more obvious brutalities com—
mitted by the ignorant, but we have closed
our eyes and shielded our imagination from
the more dreadful burden which is the outcome
of our individual or collective demands. To
satisfy these, vast commercial enterprises have
been created, which later and for their own
further proﬁt have exerted themselves to
stimulate the demands which called them into
being. A vicious circle has thus been estab-
lished which, aided by increasing populations
and improvements in the means of transport
and destruction, is gradually expanded to the
verge of extermination. Many species, indeed,
have already disappeared, and others are
approaching extinction.

This is especially the case with the big
game which are hunted for sport or for their
heads or hides, and with those other animals
which are trapped for their furs. The Animal
Welfare Society of South Africa (193 5 Report)
says of the Mountain Zebra that though
“ nominally under strict protection, this par—
ticularly interesting member of the Cape fauna
has been steadily killed off till now only
forty or ﬁfty remain,” and speaks also of
“ biltong hunting in the Kalahari, on the site
of a former game reserve, which the police
of the district are powerless to prevent, as
camels are their only means of transport, and
the poachers use motor lorries and cars.”
Newspaper articles have recently described
how the coming Coronation has stimulated
the demand for furs to such an extent that
stocks are exhausted, and prices have soared
60, 70 and in some cases 100 per cent. above
the normal.

On the other hand, the domesticated animals,
which we breed for food and other purposes,
are subjected to a progressive restriction in
intelligence, and are deprived of almost every
experience normal to animal life in its natural
state. Our conscious share in their adaptation
has been in the direction of making them

~more complete and competent slaves to our—
selves, while our care of them has been

accompanied by the maiming and distortion

 

 




 

.» , . ——,r , >wm-‘z- “um: Limuiﬂflh n.-————v .—x ,,

December, 1936

of their mental and physical characteristics.
The adaptation has, in fact, been made to ﬁt
our wants and not their needs.

The world picture at large which is thus
disclosed exhibits the almost complete degrada-
tion of one kingdom of nature—the animal—
at the hands and temporary will of another—
the human.

Whatever we may plead on our own behalf
as justiﬁcation—that these things are necessary ;
that animals have no rights since they cannot
assume responsibility; that they were created
for our use; or that they came into being by
chance—does not lessen by one iota the
sufferings of the animals themselves, or the
extent and nature of the harms we wreak upon
them. Nor, however much we may plume
ourselves upon our individual kindliness, our
love of animals, can we rid ourselves of our
implication in the evil of this exploitation.

An evil undoubtedly it is, for exploitation,
whatever its degree or whoever may be its
victim, is always in principle the same. It is
founded upon the egotistical desire for well—
being, for security, for domination; and since
readiness to exploit is inevitably coupled with
the fear of exploitation by others, it is indis—
solubly linked with the whole train of
suspicions, hatreds and frustrations which
seem likely to sweep the civilisation which
admits them out of existence altogether.

May I state my belief that animal life is not
a chance OCCurrence, that it has a value in and
for itself, and that behind it may be a purpose
not incommensurate with that of the life of
man. \We cannot use our “ignorance” of
such a purpose as a kind of malefactors’
sanctuary, in which we can take refuge from
the results of our misdoing. Whether the
world be a product of chance or of creative
will, it exists : and we, with, the animals, are
conditioned by the same discoverable laws,
to interfere with which may. destroy the whole
organon of living.

At bottom, there are few of us who are
deliberately or callously cruel. But we are
all in some degree selfish, vacillating',’ indolent ;
and it is upon the selﬁshness. off each one of
us, who by our actions, our desires, or our
indifference contribute to it, that this world
problem is founded. Being“ kind toy'animals ”
will not solve it. TW/e have, been groWingkinder
and kinder for .aacentury past, and the sufferings
of animals have” grown? even more rapidly than
our kindness .. ' T i 'M

_ What is to bei'donei?

413

THE ANIMALS" , FRIEND

.We neede-may it be suggested P—a change
of heart and conscience in our relationship
with animals. Thelattitude of patronage we
so generally describe as kindness to and love
of animals must be abandoned, and a simpler
acceptance of them on and for their own
merits attained. '

Does all this seem off the point? Let me
ask you, when you leave this hall, to look
with open eyes and an enquiring mind into the
shop windows you pass, and see how many
of them are free from objects and materials
which have involved the killing and sometimes
the torment of animals. And next, let me ask
you to think over your own day—the clothes.
you wear, the food you eat, the appliances
you use, the amusements you seek.

Remember, then, that you will have seen
only some of the results, and nothing of the
processes which have led to them. The
addresses already given, and those still to be
given to this Conference, will reveal something
of these processes, but even they will not be
able to cover the whole wide range of facts,
and time will prevent some of the aspects of
the problem from being dealt with at all.

We are rational beings. We should be able
to use our powers to discover, not the greatest
number and .. most advantageous ways of
exploiting the helpless, but the least amount
of harm which it is necessary for us to inﬂict
upon them. [It might really be very little, if
we all gaveour minds to it, and set ourselves
to change the currents of thought of Ourselves
and our time.

Pray, let us think of these things from their
universal as well as their individual aspect,
and try to look at them not only from the
human point of view but from that of the
creatures which are our victims.

 

82

—.... mm...— .-,.. , -- “WW , ,. v~
“-7 ~:-wr:m:w:ra=nvz~zcrvﬁmm-WWW - >, W m ."r . . . ~

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Destruction of Wild
Life for Fur

By BETTY ARDRON.

beautiful wild animals being exterminated,

and the suffering entailed by the present
methods of trapping, women are being urged
to ask for and buy only fur fabrics», and so
discourage cruelty and encourage employment
in the growing British industry of synthetic
fur production.

The most colossal destruction of wild life
is going on for fur. Over 100 million skins
of various kinds are imported every year in
one country alone, to supply a market which
would no longer exist if women only realised
how they had been obtained and that there is
great danger of the wild animals of the earth
passing away for ever.

Many ocean mammals, including the Giant
Seal, Elephant Seal and Sea Otter, and rare
animals of Malaya, Congo, Tasmania, India,
Zululand, Africa, Australia and South America
are threatened with extermination.

The fashionable craze for summer furs and
fur trimming has increased the slaughter of
wild beasts enormously.

When we consider the fact that from 8 to
10 beavers are killed for one coat and about
80 mink skins for one wrap, we begin to
realise the colossal slaughter that goes on for
these garments alone.

A certain firm has made forty million dollars
in ten years by the sale of broadtail, which is
obtained by skinning alive prematurely born
Persian sheep. This information was actually
obtained from a fur trader who, for obvious
reasons, wishes to remain incognito.

It seems incredible that so many apparently
tender hearted women who cannot tolerate
seeing a domestic animal starving or ill—treated
will, for the sake of fashion, wear furs which
have been obtained from animals that have
been trapped and tortured with the utmost
cruelty !

The fur fabric trade, which is a comparatively
new British industry, is doing a lot to help
matters, and many fabrics are now on the
market that are equal in beauty an d durability
to the most valuable pelts.

Fur fabrics are composed of mohair and
silk, wool and alpaca, llama hair, camel hair,
cotton and art silk in varying proportions.

IN View of the danger of many of our most

414

 

December, I 93 6

They are lighter, healthier and in many cases
more durable than real fur, and in some cases
resemble real fur so closely that it is not
easy to tell the difference.

Mole, beaver, fox, nutria, seal, sable,
musquash, caracul, shorn lamb, opossum,
astrachan, pony skin, karakul, are being

successfully imitated.

Fur fabric is not only being used with great
advantage for coats and wraps, but for stoles,
necklets, collars, muffs, capes, and for trimming
and renovations, fur-backed gloves, etc.

Imitation kid and imitation hog gloves are
also being made and sold.

Many fashionable women are replacing
their real fur coats for fur fabric ones now
that they are beginning to realise the sad
results of the real fur coat craze, and that so
many wild creatures are in danger of being
wiped out of existence.

Many very expensive fur coats that were
once far from being within the means of the
average woman can now be had in fur fabric
at a fraction of the cost.

In the fur fabric industry and the sanctuaries
that are being made for wild animals lie our
hope for saving our wild creatures while
there is still time to save them, but already
so many have gone, never to return.

The Mink and the F OX

ELLA C. FORBES.

A little mink and a little fox

Sat on top of a wooden box.

Side by side, like brotber witb brotber,
Tbe} sat and talked witb one anotber.

“ Do you like bumans? ” asked tbe fox.

He felt a sbudder tbat sbook tbe box.

“ No,” said tbe mink, “ I don’t; instead,
Wben man is around I am filled witb dread.
He sets bis trap, tben awaits tbe bour
Wben I am belpless, in bis power.

And all because be wants m} fur

To make a coat for Her.”

Tbe little fox’s face grew pale ;

He looked at bis own fine, fluffy tail.

Cruel/y scbooled in tbe art of running,

His parents bad taugbt bim a certain cunning.

But tbis, be knew, would avail bim nougbt;

Sooner or later be would be caugbt.

And tbere on tbe box be sensed tbe snap

Of tbe merciless jaws of tbe bidden trap.

Having closed, it would bold bim tigbt

Till tbe slayer came, witb tbe morning lngt.

And bis nice little coat witb its fluffy tail

Would be dressed and tagged and put up for sale.
(From Our Dumb Animals.)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

- .mam.-.,,‘

December, I 936

“ Vic ”

By HARPER CORY, F.C.G.S.

HIS is a true story.
- Once upon a time a vixen gave birth

to ﬁve cubs ; and one youngster, a male,
was a bunch of nerves. In the course of time
the ﬁve cubs were dug out of the den and
transported to a vast store which tried to
publicise its importance by selling baby
animals—they were a store attraction.

The cubs were placed on show in a small
box faced with garden—wire, and visitors by
the dozen gawked stupidly at them, not realis—
ing that foxes are extremely sensitive, and
regard man as a hereditary enemy. The
youngest victim hid behind his relatives and
feared everybody who stared into the cage.
But even he learned to trust the youth who
fed them and handled them in his efforts
to sell them.

Three sisters and a brother were sold.
The neurasthenic, ironically called Victor,
found no buyers—he was much too nervous
to be trusted, and thus he lived alone in a
sawdust—covered box with no place where
he might hide when an excess of visiting
racked his tortured nerves.

I heard about him. My wife and I visited
the store and felt so sorry for the little chap,
who looked so pretty but outrageously
wretched, that I paid twenty shillings for him.
There and then it was arranged that the shop-
keeper would care for the animal, placing a
cover over the front of the cage to hide him
from visitors, until I was returning home
and could take him.

The cover was not placed over the fox——
“ gosh! he’s an attraction.” And when I went
for him, I found him with a leg in plaster—of-
paris. I was told that he had slipped off a
chair and broken the leg; and this story
was glossed over with an account of how Vic
had allowed them to re—set the leg without
a whimper—and without anaesthetics. And
the amazing feature is that the invalid was
kept in full view of the public, bandaged leg
and all.

I ordered him home. They brought him
in a motor-van, and he arrived almost scared
to death. I took the little chap to my study,
where he might ﬁnd peace and quietness until
his leg was healed. He lay cowering in a
deep cat-basket—until I left the room. Then
he jumped on to a shelf of my ﬁlm—cupboard,

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

pushed the ﬁlms on to the ﬂoor, and curled up.
I had to unravel and. re—wind about 6,000-
feet of ﬁlm.

Vic wanted that shelf—I let him have it,
and he kept it scrupulously clean. Feeding
him was a problem. He had trusted the store—
keeper, who in turn had abused that trust by
handing him to strangers—Vic now distrusted
everybody. He ate when alone, and he left
the shelf to lie in the basket when alone.
At last, seeing that I ignored him while I
wrote, he plucked up courage to use the
basket in my presence. But the slightest creak
of my chair sent him back to the shelf.

Peter, our cat, visited him daily, and the
two creatures became friendly, although Peter
became annoyed when Vic tore the basket
to bits to strengthen his jaws. Then came
the day when he tore the bandage from his
leg: the leg was healed, but the setting was
vile : Vic will limp for the rest of his life.

It was now time for him to live out of doors.
I planned to set him free in the woods, but,
to let him strengthen his leg in safety, I put
him in an immense kennel in the garden, and
fastened his chain to a running wire. Vic
sauntered along the wire : he turned to come
back. At that moment a door slammed. In
a ﬂash he had lurched backward, snapped a
steel chain and sprung over a high fence.

My attempts to recover him were half—
hearted—I wanted him to get to the country.
He did not. Dozens of people saw him and
tried to catch him, but for nine days that baby
creature kept within 400 yards of the house
and eluded everybody. Six men surrounded

 

415

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE J ANIMALS’ FRIEND

him and one tried to throw a sack over him :
‘Vic played leap—frog on the man’s back and
' got away.

Stories of old ladies scared to death by a
snapping, dangerous fox reached my ears.
The truth was that the cub still had his milk-
teeth: he was chased by men, dogs and cats,
and stoned by boys—his one aim was to avoid
human beings. At last he entered an outhouse:
I entered and gripped his tail when he ran over
my feet———and I think he was glad to be caught.

He was very thin, a sign that he had not
learned to feed himself, in which case it would
be cruel to set him free in the country, so we
placed him in the kennel and made him com—
fortable. Believe it or not, two days later
the R.S.P.C.A. inspector called to inspect the
fox which I was treating “ with great cruelty.”
He inspected the animal and remarked, “I
think he’s very lucky—you can do nothing
more for him.” He had at one time worked
on a fox—farm. Sentimental busybodies who
send inspectors on these embarrassing visits
ought to remember that they are wasting the time
of courteous, hard—working friends of animals.

I have just been feeding Vic. He is in

splendid condition, but he has become a
hermit. He loves his kennel, and he does not
want to leave it—in fact, there is quite a tussle
if we compel him to take a walk in the garden.
He has no use for men, and he does not trust
me too far, although he eats out of my hand
readily. Mrs. Cory, on the other hand, is
allowed to fondle him freely and to carry
him about ; but a leaf rustling over the ground
startles him so greatly that he will snap at
her in his attempt to get back to the safety
of his kennel. Once there, he comes to the
door to “ talk ” to her in quiet growls, or to
pass the time with Peter.

I don’t know what we will do with him.
It would be cruel to set him free in the woods
now, because he has had no woodland educa—
tion: I don’t want to kill him because
he is virile and a thing of great beauty: and
I wonder if I am right in letting him exist in
his hermitage—apparently he enjoys life there.

It is shocking to think in these so—called
civilized days that a living creature can have
its nerves shattered to bits to provide a store—
keeper with a few shillings proﬁt. After all,
what is twenty shillings in a yearly turn-over
of many thousands of pounds? Still, what
can we expect when the public will pay from
three to ﬁve shillings each for kittens which
are bred to be sold at tenpence per dozen
Wholesale. Ten lives for a bob!

Deceméer, 1935
Keeping Pamphlets

How often one has wanted to refer to a
pamphlet or leaﬂet that cannot be found?
And anyone interested in animal welfare
usually manages to collect any number of
these!

Perhaps the best way to file pamphlets is
to cut a number of pieces of cardboard
(about) II inches by 7 inches, and to stick
on these classification tags of stiff white paper
4 inches by 1% inches, with about an inch
taken up for sticking on. The pamphlets
are placed upright on a shelf or in a box,
with a card at the end of each group of pam—
phlets. The sketch gives an indication of
what is meant. It is then an easy matter to
refer to them. The pamphlets can be classed
under convenient headings—Anti—Vivisection,
Blood Sports, Food Reform, National Parks,
Humane Education, Fur Trade, Performing
Animals, Vegetarianism, \Worn Out Horse
Traffic, Zoos, etc.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E. G. B.

'416

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

December; 1936

“ Cast Your Bread—— ”

By W. NEAVE PARKER.

 

 

 

 

Gull.

D 1 ANY years ago autumn, coming too
soon, heralded the advance of a
bitter winter. No St. Martin’s little

summer eased the turn of the season, and
the year swiftly settled down to a mono—
tony of chill grey days. The ﬁrst frosts
spread a brittle glaze over pond and stream,
and as winter tightened it’s grip rivers and
lakes were locked beneath snow-covered ice,
while the coasts were piled high with fantastic
white shapes. Wild creatures froze as they
slept, and what few birds remained were
forced to leave the frozen ﬁelds, and come for
shelter to the towns.

The gulls had left the open sea, and now
retreated up the great river, settling upon the
city in raucous ﬂocks.

The pigeons and sparrows, who from time
immemorial had held the winter rights of
forage, were vociferous in their indignation,
but were helpless before the bold marauders.

The noisy hosts of gulls were a great
novelty to the Londoners, but the welcome was
not altogether kind. The birds were as often
stoned as fed, and some hooligans went so far
as to shoot at them from the embankments.
The authorities at last put a stop to this,
but the gulls relied more on their natural

417

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

audacity than on the friendship of man to
appease their/hunger. V '

At last a long—awaited spring shattered the
icy fetters that bound the wild things to the
society of mankind, and the gulls returned
to their broad seas.

Some legend of town-life must have been
handed down through the generations of
gulls, for some years later, during another
severe winter, the birds again invaded London.
This time a different welcome awaited them,
they were no longer molested, and man saw
that his newly—found friends were both
amusing and decorative as he threw them his
scraps from the bridges and embankments.

Ever since that time the gulls have returned
to London at the ﬁrst fall of the leaves ;
wheeling over the river and parks, they clamour

for the bounty of bread and bacon—rind flung

by the hand of a more understanding humanity.
The starlings have followed the gulls, and let
us hope that many more species will avail
themselves .of the protection of our cities
during the cold winter months. If our
sympathy and hospitality increase, the great
towns, before long, may become sanctuaries
for many forms of bird—life.

A chain of kinship has been forged, let us
keep on adding to it our golden links of
kindness, and we will never see it broken by
the flocks which brighten our city throughout
the drab winters.

Sanctuary.

A wild white goat stood on a rocky ledge. The ﬂock
of ewes and young lambs had eaten their ﬁll of suc—
culent grasses, and they were resting behind her,
regarding her without curiosity.

Intent as an Indian keeping vigil for his guardian
spirit-animal, his “ smam,” who will appear to him
in a dream, this little white goat stood there. What
did she hear? How could she know that a score of
miles to southward anew law had been prolcaimed, that
the old warfare between man and the beasts was over.
For this was the news that was being wirelessed through
the mountain forests, carried from range to range by
some mysterious means of communication known only
to the animals themselves. Not the word—but the
spirit of the word—Sanctuary. Was it the great race
soul of all the mountain goats who spoke to her, or
had she been able to perceive certain signs beyond the
power of human senses which her slow sagacious
brain was assembling? Were her sharp-pointed ears
able to detect that from a certain quarter the crack of
riﬂes was no longer heard, or had the vibrations of
Fear gone from the forest? No one knows. But on
the morrow she led her flock downwards and turned
south to the National Park.

(M. B. Williams in Guardian: of tbe Wild. Nelson 25. 6d.)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

v :‘1 .1 . natmmmmmr 1‘. >2

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Missionary Societies and

Viviseetion
A PROTEST.

section in some of the classes of Shantung

Christian University in China, supplied by
Dr. A. S. Millard, formerly M.D.H. for
Cyprus, has already
been given in these
pages, and protests
have been made to the
British Missionary So-
cieties supporting this
University by the
National Council for
Animals Welfare and
many other animal

INFORMATION on the subject of vivi—

 

protection societies
without avail. The
missionary societies

addressed are the Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel, the London Missionary Society,
the Baptist Missionary Society, and the
Wesleyan Missionary Society. Similar action,
we understand, has been taken in America
and Canada in regard to the American and
Canadian missionary societies which support
the Shantung University in question. From
the replies received to these protests we have
come regretfully to the conclusion that until
the missionary societies can be convinced that
they will lose the sympathy, prestige and
support of a considerable section of the public
no effective action will be taken by them and
no protest made by them to the Board of
Directors on the field.

In view of this state of affairs, therefore, it
is with pleasure that we have been informed
by Dr. Millard that a petition for signature
has been drawn up and has been taken charge
of by the Rights of Animals Section, Women’s
Guild of Empire. The terms of the petition
are as follows :—

We, the undersigned, wish to state that in our
opinion Experiments on Living Animals for the
purpose of illustrating lectures to students are
open to serious objection. We think that such
experiments should be prohibited in Colleges and
Universities supported by Christian Missionary
Societies.

We understand that a special fund has been

placed at the disposal of the Rights of Animals
Section for working the petition, which can

December, / 9.3 61

be signed at the special table taken for the
purpose at the Animals’ Fair by the Section.
We hope that every visitor to the Fair Will
sign. Dr. Millard wrote on the 15th Novem—
ber the following letter :—

DEAR MR. SPURRIER, . _

Thank you very much for signing the Petition
and for getting other signatures and especially for
being willing to put the matter before your
readers. A few days ago I received a form which
I had sent to Dr. Parry, M.D., F.R.C.S., of Hove.
He had not only signed but he had obtained the
signatures of six other doctors. A petition With
10,000 signatures including those of doctors and
ministers of religion, would have to be very
seriously considered, and with your help and the
help of others it is quite possible to obtain this
number, but it means hard work. It is worth it.

Yours sincerely,
(Signed) ALFRED S. lVIiLLARD.

It should be said that the missionary societies
concerned urge in their defence that their
medical schools conform with the law of this
country. This is, of course, a mere evasion
of the real issue, for as it is pertinently pointed
out in the Newssheet of the Rights of Animals
(W..G.E) Section, our law, inadequate as it
is, requires that experiments shall only be
carried out by licensees at registered places and
it also provides for some measure of inspection,
whereas China has no comparable restrictions
of this nature and British law does not operate
in China.

The fact that public opinion in this country
tolerates experiments on living animals before
students without doubt supplies the missionary
societies with the strongest and most un-
christian argument they can put forward in
support of their action, but surely it is one
that should move us to work more whole-
heartedly than ever before for the total
abolition of this inhumane, degrading and
wasteful practice.

R. H. S.

lVatcb tbe students at a uioisection. It is tbe blood and
suffering, not tbe science, tbat rivets tbeir breatbless attention.
——PROFESSOR BIGELOW, Professor of Surgery in Harvard
University.

Intellectual! , I do not tbin/é my classes were assisted,
in tbe main, by tbe experimental demonstration. I am sure
it limited my spbere of usefulness, by leading me, in tbe
limited space of time at my command, to omit some parts of
pbysiology of a simpler, less controversial, and more useful
kind. I am bound, too, to say tbat, morall , I did not recall
tbe effect as produced, all tbat could be wisbed.-—BENJAMIN
WARD RICHARDSON, M.D., M.A., F.R.S., F.R.C.P.

418

 

 

 

 

*. .*.F_‘n,a

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

December, I 93 6

Robert Buchanan
( I 84 1—1 902)
By BASIL HARVEY-JAMES.

UCHANAN has been described as the

“poet of revolt,” and this a very apt

description. His poems breathe the spirit
of revolt, and he was a rebel in every channel
of thought. The bitter invective shown
against ecclesiastical pretension in “ The Wan-
dering Jew” and “The Pool of Destiny”
is shown with equal effect against the wanton
slaughter of animals in “ The Song of the
Fur Seal ” and “ Man of the Right Red Hand.”

His zoophilist utterances were not however
conﬁned to his poems. Writing of Vivisection
in a letter to the Star (15th July, 1899), he
describes the vivisector as follows: “ A man
who practices Vivisection is ipso facto a selﬁsh
coward and a disgrace to humanity.” Writing
of the Game Laws he declared: “ The Game
Laws are the tribute paid by the over-worked
and over—taxed people of England to the
Lords of the Bread—to the predatory classes
who have appropriated the land and de—
populated the hills and valleys, to increase their
own selﬁsh pleasures. The destruction of
the Game Laws is as inevitable as was the
destruction of Slavery, the repeal of the
Corn Laws, the overthrow of an alien church
in the sister isle; but the ﬁght will be a stiff
one between the freemen of this country
and our savage or only semi-civilised aris—
tocracy and plutocracy.”

His bitter tone is excusable all the more
when we consider that he hadla hard struggle
through life, and while his verse was inferior
to Blunt’s, for example, he had not the other’s
easy circumstances and the best writing is
not from a hungry man. I mention Blunt
and Buchanan together, because although
greater poets than either of them have written
verses on animals and better verses about
animals (though one might query “The Toad ”)
.tbeir best lines are on animals.

The mixture of pathos and bitterness in
Buchanan is well exempliﬁed in these moving
lines from “ The City of Dream ” (1888),
describing the vision of a Temple of Science,
a well-worn Victorian fetish :—

“ Tbe bound drew back and struggled witb tbe cbain

In act to fl , but eoery way dragged and drioen

He reacbed tbe lecturer’s feet and tbere lay down,

Panting and looking up witb pleading yes;

410

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Tbe lecturer smiled again and patted bim,
Wben lo! tbe oictim licked tbe bloody band
Pleading. for kindness and for pity still. . . .”

He forcefully attacked the twin-evil of
Sport in “ Man of the Red Right Hand—”

“ Afar on tbe lonely isles tbe cry of tbe slaugbtered
berds

Rose on tbe morning air, to tbe scream of tbe
flying birds,

And tbe birds fell down and bled witb pitiful
buman cries,

And tbe butcber’d lambs of tbe Sea look up witb
pleading @Ies,“ '

And tbe blood of bird and beast was red on tbe
sea and land,

And drunk witb tbejoy of deatb was Man witb
tbe Red Rngt Hand.

And tbe fur of tbe slain sea—lamb was a cloak
for bis bride to wear,

And tbe broken wing of tbe bird was set in bis
' leman’s bair,

And tbe flesb of tbe ox and lamb were food
for bis brood to eat,

And tbe skin if tbe mild sea kine was sboon
on bis daugbter’s feet!

And tbe cry of tbe slaugbtered tbings was loud
ooer sea and land

As be knelt once more and prayed, upraising
bis Red Rigbt Hand.” '

Like most agnostics however, he did not
lack the spiritual side. In “ God Evolving,”
which is virtually a poetic restatement of
Schopenhauer’s Ethic of Compassion, we ﬁnd
a tenet which links him to Shelley and Arnold
in a uniﬁed, coherent process of thought.

“ Fed witb tbe blood and tears of lining tbings,
Nourisb’d and strengtben’d by Creation’s woes,
Tbe God unborn, tbat sball be King of Kings,
5 own in tbe darkness, tbro’ tbe darkness grows.

Wbere’er tbe lamb and lion side by side
Lie down in peace, wbere’er on land or sea '
Infinite lore and Mercy beaoenly-g/ed .
Emerge, tbere stirs tbe God tbat is to be!

His ligbt is round tbe slaugbter’d bird and beast,
As round tbe forebead of Man crucified,—

All tbings tbat lire, tbe greatest and tbe least. ;
Await tbe coming of tbis Lord and Guide ;

And eoery gentle deed by mortals done,

, Yea eoery boly tbougbt and loving breatb,

.Ligbten , poor, Nature’s traoail . witb tbis Son
Wbo sball be Lord and God of Life and Deatb!

.__...._..._._-... > -__..._____ ..__.._...~ AM.

~ -.H._
*m-w‘_

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE .ANIMALS’ FRIEND

No God lie/Jind a; in flee enzpzj/ Vail,

N 0 God entnroned on yonder neigln‘: above,
Bat God emerging, and evolved at layz‘

Ont of ilye ininorz‘ bearz‘ of lonrnan Love!

I know that many animal lovers conceive
of the Diety under one of the forms expressed
in the ﬁrst two lines and hasten to assure them
that I respect their beliefs. But it is the
divinity of the last two lines, a sublimer
projection of Arnold’s “power . . . that
makes for righteousness,” which gives an
inspiration to our relations with our fellow-
men and fellow—animals greater than those
conceptions of Mystery and Power. Com—
pare those lines from “ One among so
Many ” by Francis Adams :—

“ . . . For I believe inere ii a God, a God

Not in Me Heaven, z‘lye earl/.7, or flee zvaz‘ery; no,

Bat in flee lyearz‘ of Man, on Me dear 1sz

Of Angel Women, of Heroie Men!”

My readers need not fear that I am going
to convert what is an estimation of Robert
Buchanan into a philosophic treatise or a
theological tract, but it is scarcely possible to
dwell on the zoophilism of rare souls as were
Shelley or Buchanan without attempting to
demonstrate how this zoophilism was with
them “ part and parcel” of their whole con—
ception of things—temporal and eternal.

 

.. Native Beauty.-
Photo by] [P. Phillips, Ipswich

*IMWgr-JG ini— “’3" A ‘
, ; hr » Jen-.4. , ~

December, I 936

Animal Poetry

BY PAUL BETTERLI.

Translated from the German by Marion
- Reid.

(First published in lbe Suzie: Red Crow Calendar
for I957)-

been a great achievement. It was not

only an act of self~emancipation but
also a notable renunciation of all traditional
and hereditary dominion over the animal
kingdom. These creatures, despised by the
great mass of misguided humans and regarded
as their slaves, have become subjects for
artistic creation and objects of loving and
intimate sympathy. They have their cham—
pions amongst the artists and their advocates
amongst the poets. This is an event to the
onlooker; but to the one who knows, it is a
happy augury. The good tidings is pro—
claimed to the animals. It is no irony but
the truth. The fact that we possess animal
poetry proves it.

Animal poetry makes particular demands
not only on the author but also on the reader.
It is true here, if anywhere, that he who would
understand the poet must go into poet’s
land. In this case there is no need to travel
far. But one thing the reader must do.
He must step out of his four walls, strip of}.
the fallals of everyday life, and go out into
the world of ﬁeld and forest. ' An intimate
relationship with Nature and her creatures is
the ﬁrst, supreme condition for the under-
standing of animal poetry. That is no light
demand in these times of rush and materialism.
But more still is required. The reader must
become an adept in the truest sense of the
word. Adepts are the initiated and the
magicians. The reader must be initiated into
the secret of nature, and into the great miracle
of every little living being, not in the sense of
possessing scientific knowledge, but in the
power of soul sympathy. He must have
the magician’s wand and know the runes
if he would win an entry into the kingdom
of the animals. This is all present in his soul.
He only needs to dig it out, it may be from
under heaps of rubbish and dirt, and then
make right use of it

The understanding of animal poetry pre-

THE emancipation of animal poets has

420

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

December, I 936

supposes a metamorphosis. One must become
a child and see in the animals little brothers.
All the better if one has also a scientiﬁc
knowledge of the subject. For this latter
supplies a much-needed measuring rod for
critically testing all those cock—and—bull stories
ﬂoating about under the banner of animal
poetry. For, unfortunately, there are too
many of those animal poets who, relying on
the ignorance of the public, scribble the most
utter nonsense, using terms which deceive those
who have only theoretical knowledge. In ar—
bitrary and superﬁcial fashion, they depict
animals in such a relationship to each other as
is impossible in real life.

The claims which animal poetry make on
the poet are greater and more exacting than
those which it makes on the reader. For
the material which he works on is so original,
it is such a world in itself, that only after
complete intellectual and spiritual surrender
can he hope to succeed. His intellectual
surrender demands a precise intellectual
comprehension of the animal world and indeed
of all nature. But this comprehension must
not be culled merely from books. No, it must
be based on deﬁnite, personal observation.
So the animal poet must be ﬁrst of all a careful
animal observer, and therefore he needs a
particular way of looking—that of the seer.
He has the faculty of seeing more than most
people; and not only does he see more, he
hears more. He must not only hear the ants
talking, he must hear the mosquitoes sing—he
must not merely hear them humming, he
must literally hear them sing. That seems an
exaggeratlon, yet it is true.

The intellectual surrender, however, signifies
very little without the soul surrender. That
is the important thing. The intellectual
surrender produces the animal writer; the
spiritual surrender produces the animal poet.
The animal poet must divest himself of him-
self for the animal and its relationship with
the surrounding world to become intelligible to
him. Without this secret there is no animal
poet. In this connection Lichtwer truly says
in the introduction to his ﬁrst book of fables :
“ O Muse, thou who knowest what the animals
and trees say, of what the bird sings, and of
what the ﬁsh and worm make their plaint.
I ask, tell me, how do the lion and the mouse
talk? How do a goose and an eagle express
themselves? ”

The animal poet must possess absolutely
every power of sympathy which makes the

421

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

speech of the animals intelligible to him, and.
allows him to speak with them to a certain.
extent. Soul surrender means going forth
to ﬁnd the animal-soul, to discover its secrets
and to reverence them. Yes, the animal poet
must be full of awe even before the smallest
living thing. Out of respect for the creature
man should leave to it its nature and not
humanise it as the so-called animal poet often
does. Whether the animal is made to speak
onomatopo'ésically or with human words, this
should be done without in any way violating
its soul, or its originality. In fairy tales and
fables anthropomorphism is a less venial
fault, yet even in such a case more than his
name should be left to the “ despised brother.”
But in all real animal stories and romances
humanising the animal operates against true
sentiment. The animal gains nothing from
being made into a 172m) sapz'ms. That we
shall one day admit in all humility.

No doubt we humanise animals in the desire
of bringing them nearer to ourselves. This
is a concession to the inadequacy of the reader’s
sentiment of . oneness with the animals
It is also an attitude of certain nature mystics.
It annuls all diversity and individuality and only
concerns itself with its own human generalising
ego. It is permissible only under limitations,
and so far as the animal poet remains sincere
and true. For that is ﬁnally his chief task.

The animal poet must have a capacity for
mental and spiritual surrender. He must also
be able to describe animals. That is so
difﬁcult that to the earnest, striving animal
poet his comparative failure invariably becomes:
a tragedy. And, the tragedy grows in propor—
tion to “the depth of his experience, and the
strength of his sense of oneness with the:
animals. The animal poet must strive to
express himself. Gropingly he searches for the
individual life of the creature, its enigmatical

speech, the secret of its soul. To ﬁnd these-

is almost impossible. To give adequate
expression to his inexpressible experience is
equally difﬁcult. He must describe a world
with no intelligible tradition behind it, for
real animal poetry is in its earliest stages.
The world of animals is irrational in its deepest
nature, and it is just this irrationality which
mocks at every interpretation through human
speech. Hence the exclusiveness of animal
poetry and the small number of animal poets.

Poetry w/Jz'e/j bar been? deﬁned as the barmoniom unison
of man will} nature. CARLYLE.

C2

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

From

“ Ween Yellozv leaves, or none, or fezv, do bang
Upon t/oese bong/2s won/2 s/Ja/ée against t/oe
' cold. '
Bare raln’d oboz'rs, 2v/9ere late t/ye s2veet
birds sang.”
—SHAKESPEARE.
Dogs of War.

Humanitarians cannot but feel that it is
worse than a crime to utilise the services of
such a trusting animal as the dog in the
agonizing and futile business of war. LIEUT.-
COL. RICHARDSON in his Dog Memoirs writes
of his gratitude that he was privileged to know
such friends as Airedale Jack . . . “ friends
who never betrayed, but repaid with affection
and steadfast ﬁdelity all I was ever able to do
for them.” Here follows the allusion the
Colonel makes to the dog in war :

Straight as an arrow he sped, with only his
wonderful instinct to guide him. Whizz!

With a thickening thud a piece of jagged iron
ripped the muscles of his lower jaw. Yet another
missile found its mark, tearing the fur from
shoulder to haunch. Still another reached its
billet, and a forepaw hung in shreds. Back at
headquarters Keeper Spellman waited. Then,
faintly above the distant thunder, his sharp ears
detected a piteous whine.

A moment later by the light of his torch Spellman
beheld a thing that had once been a grand dog,
slowly, painfully dragging along, almost on its
stomach.

An Excellent Creed.

R. H. MOTTRAM, ].P., F.R.S.L. (Born
Norwich, 1883), came into prominence as
the author of S pants/o Farm and Hoase of
Dornzer, and has since lectured all over Great
Britain and in France and Germany. From
Enropa’s Beast, one of Mr. Mottram’s more
recent novels, is taken the following few
lines :

Brought up from the nursery, and conﬁrmed at
school, in a creed of which the ﬁrst commandment

was never to allow a hurt to be done to animals,
or those who were outside the rules.

No Flowers by Request.

SIR HECTOR DUFF, who has had a dis-
tinguished career in the Colonial service,
writing of his life in his ancient Scottish
home, “ Castle Grim,” gives expression to
his very real love for ﬂowers :

I never allow any cut blooms in my study or
bedroom, which are the only parts of my house
where I am master. This leads visitors to ask
sometimes if I am not fond of ﬂowers, and when

:m 7 «
A-rmjv- .LWZW

' ‘ Itrs'mmuwnrrsr: :‘

December, 193 5

Onlooker’s Note Book

I answer that I am too fond of them to slice their
heads off, they laugh as if I had said something
eccentric. Well, I don’t know; the natural life
of ﬂowers is short enough anyhow, and apart
from such thinning and pruning as may be n ecessary
for cultural purposes, I would sooner see them
live it out among the birds and bees, in the garden
and hedgerows, where they rightly belong. . .

I have seen a herd of antelope strike a man’s
trail in the deep woods and throw their muzzles
into the air as if they had touched red-hot iron.
Well, when they can sense our noisome presence
from a mere footprint like that, can you believe
that ﬂowers are insensitive to the horror of our
intimate mauling and nosing; they who in their
natural state never suffer the touch of anything
grosser than a bee or a butterﬂy?

Naming the Animals.

In a recent Sunday O/oserver competition,
where one had the choice of deciding A
Week in Time, some readers voted for the
beginning, the: “ Week in which the world
was created; because it was the longest week
on record.” “Instar” gave as his wish:

I cannot imagine a more pleasant time than a

week in the Garden of Eden, with Adam alone
at the time when he was naming the animals.

No Resurrection.

REV. W. RALPH INGE, D.D., formerly Dean
of St. Paul’s, author of a number of books,
including England, Assessments and Antlozpa—
tions, and Vale, besides contributing gener—
ously to T/oe Evening Standard. The under-
quoted is taken from an article dealing with
our duty to posterity:

All moral effort is a living in the future and for
the future; but we generally think only of the
very near future, in which we are personally
interested . . This brings into play a whole
crop of new duties. Ought we to be quite so
reckless in using up the world’s limited stock of
coal and oil? . . .

Ought we to destroy interesting and beautiful
animals and birds, knowing that there is no resur-
rection of an extinct species? Here we are really
awake to our duties, though not in time to save
some interesting animals which have disappeared
for ever.

A Hundred Years Ago.

Excerpt from Tbe Observer of July 7th,
1836 :—

Docs—Several constables have paraded the
streets armed with horse pistols, for the destruction
of all dogs found at large unmuzzled, and many
useless curs have been shot by them.—C/Jester
Cbronio/e.

422

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Decemlrer, I 93 6

Rabbits and Gill Traps

T will be remembered that when the Gin

Traps (Prohibition) Bill was debated in

the House of Lords last year the promoters
of the bill sought to have it referred to a Select
Committee, but their opponents defeated this
intention. In May of this year a separate
motion, independent of the Bill, was passed
by the Lords for the appointment of a Select
Committee on damage by rabbits, and a
clause referring to the gin trap was included.
The motion was then passed unanimously, with
Government support, in a small House. It was
still necessary, however, to appoint the
members of the Committee, the representation
being governed by certain rather complicated
traditions. At the opening of the new session
in November the motion had to be moved
afresh, and this time Viscount Bledisloe and
the Earl of Radnor opposed the inclusion
of the subject of trapping in the terms of
reference. In spite of their opposition the
motion was carried again, with Government
support. The Select Committee has now
been appointed and ”the ﬁrst public sitting
was held on Thursday, November 26th. After
:a witness representing the HomeOfﬂce, the
first witnesses to be heard were those repre—
senting the University of London Animal
Welfare Society. The terms of reference,
which had been drafted by U.L.A.W.S., were

as follows .:

That a ”Select Committee be appointed to
(consider whether any measures, and if so
what, ought to be taken for the better
protection of agriculture and the land against
the ravages of rabbits, and to what extent,
if “any, the prohibition of the use of gin
traps would affect the attainment of the
"object aforesaid.

The evidence offered by U.L.A.W.S. is
understood to comprise statements by over
thirty farmers and others having direct
experience of “the land in various parts of the
country. “The composition of the Committee
gives complete confidence in its rigorous
impartiality, and any attempt to inﬂuence it
otherwise than through the proper course of
evidence might have a very prejudicial effect
on the cause at stake, which is in the safe and
experienced hands of U.L.A.W.S.

C. \W. HUME.

423

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A Saddening Discovery

Y young nephew and I were tramping
' the shore of Murtaugh Lake, a reed—

fringed irrigation storage reservoir in
Idaho, when sounds of a commotion in the
overﬂow back of us reached our ears. We
investigated.

There in the water, ﬂapping his wings
because of fright and pain, was a huge mallard
drake, his green head sparkling in the rays
of a bright October sun. At first we were
mystified by the beautiful creature’s inability
to ﬂy away. But not for long. One of his
yellow legs was held fast in a steel trap.
The latter had doubtless been set for muskrat
by some trapper. There was no telling how
long ago the trap had been put there or how
long the duck had been held fast.

Feeling of the mallard’s breast bone I
discovered the bird was emaciated through
failure to feed himself properly. Webfooted
birds lose ﬂesh rapidly when unable to find
food. And grass in necessary quantities was
denied him. Far out in the lake hundreds
of his tribesmen were having a fine time
diving for food while entirely unaware of his
predicament and utterly powerless to help,
even had they known of it.

My nephew and I speedily released the
bird, which ﬂew clear away from the hateful
lake. We imagined he was heading for some '
grain stubbles to put some ﬂesh on his bones.

Steel traps and other snares are cruel to
wild life for which they are not intended,
as well as to fur—bearing animals. My heart
ached for that suffering mallard, which, if we
had not happened along, would have died a
lingering, horrible death. The incident created
a profound impression on my boy companion,
who, I am sure will never set a trap as long
as he lives.

(From Our Dumb Animals.)

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A Polyglot Parrot

 

Photo by]

[P. Phillips, Ipswich.
“ Hello! W’lyere’a‘ Squeak? ”

HAVE so often heard the remark, “ Don’t
Iact like a parrot—think! ” I am going to

add that if some people acted more like
a parrot they would do a little more thinking.
Anyway, I think you will agree when you hear
about this particular Polly.

He was owned by a Swedish woman who
had a coffee estate in Kenya—a beautiful place
of six hundred acres, and, besides Polly, her
other pets were two Alsatian dogs, a terrier,
a cheetah, about which I may tell you later,
also a cat and her kittens, so Polly had lots
of company and lots of freedom, his cage door
being left open all day out on a shaded
verandah.

There were several languages spoken in this
home : Swedish, English, Swahili and Danish,
and Polly never addressed one in any but
their own language. To his mistress, he
usually spoke in English with a few Swedish
sentences thrown in just as if to impress her
with the fact that he understood her native
tongue. Then, to me he always spoke in
English, to the native servant who looked
after his cage, etc., in Swahili. He imitated

424

December, 1936

the dog’s (the small terrier) squeaky bark
(it was named Squeak on this account), and
meowed just like the kittens when they
appeared. Altogether he was the most amusing
bird and wonderful company when alone on
a rather isolated estate.

If he were feeling hungry for breakfast,
he would call to the native boy, “ Morori,
Korjah hapa, Polly ta a chakoola, pece.
(Morori, come here, Polly wants breakfast,
quickly)” Then, when I appeared and asked
why he was so noisy, he would say, “ Hello,
where’s Squeak? ” and putting his head down
would say, “ Stroke Polly—Good morning! ”

His colour was grey, with beautiful touches
of green and red—he was really the prettiest
bird and rather belied the saying that “Thinking
makes one plain.”

(From Animal Life.)

The North-Western Refuge (Glasgow).

We have received from Mr. Cecil H. Robinson the
report of the North—Western Refuge for Destitute
Animals (Glasgow), of which Refuge he is the Honor«
ary Secretary. This good work was started in 192 3 by
a few ladies keenly interested in Animal Welfare in a.
somewhat derelict loft over a stable in Mathieson Road,
and it has been supported entirely by voluntary con-
tributions, small fees for lethalling from those able to
pay and by sales of work and whist drives organised by
members of the Committee. Its existence was for the
ﬁrst few years precarious, but as the Refuge became
well known and of good repute in the district it served,
it began to prosper so that the work is now centred
in a double ﬂoor tenement close to the original Refuge
and is now, as at the beginning, in a district largely
inhabited by poor people. Here the work has con-
tinued to expand so that the services of a part time
assistant became a necessity to aid those of the voluntary
workers. A clinic for sick animals is open every
Thursday afternoon ; boarding accommodation is pro-
vided for cats; stray cats are collected from various
districts in the city—many of them poor, wretched,
diseased creatures—and are given a merciful end. In
necessitous cases animals are lethalled free of charge,
and all operations are performed under chloroform. A
scheme is in operation whereby poor persons are
enabled to put by from time to time small sums for the
purchase of dog licences and the assistance given by
the National Council Defence League to approved
owners who are very poor is taken advantage of.

It is the Committee’s intention, as and when funds
permit, to extend the beneﬂcent activities of the Refuge.
Mr. Harvey Metcalfe is Chairman of the Committee
and the Hon. Treasurer is Mrs. M‘Ewan, and the
Committee members are nearly all vegetarians and
anti-vivisectionists and true workers for animal welfare.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

December, 1936

A Clever Boston Cat

By W. L. PARSONS.

E discovered “Jack” on a farm in
R X/ Maine ten years ago, and brought
him home to Winchester, Massachu—
setts, in the auto. He found this method of
travel so much to his liking that he curled up
on my daughter’s tam-o’—shantcr on the auto
cushion and went to sleep. The tam-o’—
shanter was placed in his wicker basket in
the basement where he slept for some weeks,
but one morning we found him asleep near
the radiator in the kitchen—and to our surprise,
he was curled up on the tam—o’—shanter. The
basement he had found too cool and so moved
to a warmer spot in the kitchen, and had
brought his tam—o’-shanter with him.

As he grew larger Jack learned to take in
his teeth the small wool blanket from his bed
and drag it about the house. We went away for
a week-end, leaving Jack’s feeding in the care
of a neighbour. On the day after our departure
he took his blanket to the neighbour’s and
dropped it on the front door mat. He had
really “ moved.”

Jack’s chief sport is to search the neighbour—
hood and bring home all available pieces of
cloth or garments and leave them at our front
door. Recently I found a white stocking at
the door. Laughingly, I said to Jack, “ We
can’t use one sock. We need a pair.” That
very night he brought home the mate to it.
My wife is kept busy ﬁnding out who owns
the property Jack brings and returning it.

It is a great delight to Jack to get into my
bedroom at night. He hops up on the blanket,
sets up a vigorous purring, comes up and
touches my face with his nose, and then settles
down for a sleep. Of course the bed is
forbidden ground, but he will never be
reconciled to that rule of the household. The
trouble he has taken and the intelligence he
has shown in ﬁnding a way to my room are
hardly believable. Jack has a small door,
especially made for him, which swings both
ways and permits him to enter and leave the
basement. It was easy for him to push open
his door. A long jump took him from the
front porch railing to the porch roof. A
perilous journey along the gutter at the level
of the second story of the house, brought him
to the sun-parlour roof; from there he could
jump to my window sill, and he was on my

bed again.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Then I placed a button on Jack’s door and
another on the door frame, so that when the
buttons were turned in a horizontal position
the door could not be moved either way.
He soon discovered that with his paw he could
move the button on the door to a vertical
position and push open his door. My next
move was to make this button fast, so that
the door could not be pushed open. But Jack
then turned the other button, pulled the door
inward, and was still able to get out of the
basement and come to my room.

Interested to see how complicated a problem
Jack could solve, I aﬁﬁxed a screen door hook.
For some time he did not appear in my room,
but ﬁnally one night again I was awakened by
the familiar “ plump ” on my bed and lusty
purring. The next night I concealed myself
in the basement and watched. Jack ﬁrst
pulled down the button with his paw to a
vertical position, passing his paw downward
along the edge of the door several times to
make sure the button was free of the door.
Then he sat down infront of the door. The
hook was too tight for him to lift with one
paw, so he took both paws, and pulled up
with all his might until the hook lifted and
the door was free.

As a ﬁnal test of Jack’s skill, I placed on
his door a bolt of the type which unlocks by
lifting a metal projection to a position just
opposite a slot and moving the bolt hori—
zontally. At last one night he mastered the
whole combination and appeared again on
my bed.

My neighbour says, “ Put on a Yale lock
and hide the key,” but our household agrees
that Jack has already earned the right to
share my bed.

(From Our Dumb Animals.)

Chummed Up With a Lion.

One day during the recent summer the people of
Simla, India, were thrilled to see a lion and a terrier
walking placidly along the street together with their
master. The lion was so tame that small girls and
boys could stroke it without fear.

This is one of the strange results of an experiment
that Gandhi, famous Indian leader, is carrying out.
He has started a school near Bombay to show that
wild animals can be taught to live together in peace
and goodwill, and lions are being trained to make
friends with cows, horses and dogs.

The Marquis of Linlithgow, Viceroy of * India, is
so interested in the experiment, that he recently
“ entertained ” one of the lions at his Palace.

(IValz'ona/ Humane Review.)

425

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Clever Cockatoos

By HELEN JONES.

“ IME we hired a Cockatoo boy,”
said the Australian farmer at break-
fast one morning in January, “ the

corn is ripening nicely.”

Noticing my surprise, the farmer explained
how every year thousands of white Cockatoos
leave the Bush lands to visit the cultivated
areas where they do much damage as they feast
on the ripe corn. To carry out these raids,

the clever Cockatoos have a deﬁnite plan of

campaign. Each ﬂight of Cockatoos is many
hundred strong, with a recognised leader,
scouts, sentinels, and a method of communi—
cating with one another.

When the corn is almost ripe on a farm,
two or‘ three Cockatoos arrive, sample the
corn and ﬂy off to report to the other birds.
If not quite ripe, no more is seen of the
birds for a time, but if the corn is ripe, a
raid is carried out soon afterwards. The
Cockatoo boy’s job is to watch for these
Scouts, and see that they do not carry back
their information.

The Cockatoo boy was duly appointed,
but he missed the Scouts, for one tea—time he
came running to the house panting, “ They’re
coming!” Sending him to find the farmer
I hurried down the path and there in the
gathering dusk I saw the. Cockatoos approach—
ing like a white cloud in the sky.‘ Silently,
like sheeted ghosts they settled in the trees
by the river while three Scouts circled round
the fields. Returning, the Scouts gave a
sharp call, and immediately the host of Cocka—
toos swooped down on the grain.

Hurrying to where I thought the birds
had settled, all I could see was a single bird
sitting alone in a tree; the others were busy
low down in the corn. This single bird was
the sentinel, for as soon as I got near he
uttered a sharp clicking sound. At his
signal the birds rose, raising their sulphur
coloured crests, and making a great. noise.

I clapped my hands as they circled round,

but they answered with derisive cackles, and
merely ﬂew to the other side of the field.
This was repeated several times, and realising
that the birds knew I could not harm them, I
crept close in the corn and watched them at
work.

Each bird seemed to keep to one cob,

December, 193 6

stripping the husk from top to bottom with his
bill, and one by one shelling the grains right

.round. From each grain he scooped out the

kernel with his under mandible and held the
remainder in his foot while he bit it up into
small pieces.

By this time the farmer was approaching
with his gun. Again the Sentinel gave the
alarm, and as the birds rose, they sensed there
was danger. Many of the birds were battle—
scarred and knew that the stick the farmer
carried under his arm was a dreadful thing
which roared like thunder and ﬂashed like
lightning, 'spelling . destruction to all who
were near. Only a few shots were-fired,

and then the rising ﬂight of the birds as they

' passed over the trees, showed that they were

going right away, for the time being at any
rate.

At the end of the harvesting, Cockatoos
ﬂocked on the farm for the gleanings. Cobs
that had been missed, and loose grains on the
ground, kept them well supplied for a couple
of weeks. This time there was no secret in
their comings and goings, for they are normally
very noisy birds, and their chattering voices
could be heard far away.

No Sentinels were on duty, and the birds
were even unconcerned when the farmer,
looking for wild duck, passed, close by,
carrying a gun.

After harvest, there was peace between the
farmer and the clever Cockatoos.

The Joy of Life.

On the Simpson River, south west of Banﬂ, in the
early twilight of a March day, he (Conrad Cain of
Invermere) saw a company of hares sliding on an icy
slope at the river’s edge. They coasted repeatedly
from top to bottom of this natural toboggan slide,
returning again and again to enjoy the glissade
on the smooth bare ice. Following this they
galloped around on the snow banks, leaping and
frisking and cutting capers worthy of the maddest of
March hares. Conrad said that a few individuals did
not slide nor dance but appeared content to remain as
passive spectators.

Otters at Play.

At certain places on high sloping banks, by the edge
of a deep pool, the animals assemble to indulge in the
delights of sliding down a water chute. A clay
surface wetted by the dripping bodies of the players is
soon slippery enough to give rapid impetus. The
thrill of a sudden headlong plunge into the pool is
evidently greatly enjoyed as even the oldest otters
climb laboriously again and again to the top of the hill to
launch themselves down the greasy slide and to dive
precipitously into the muddy waters at its base.
This organised play may last for an hour or more.

(Dan McGowan in Animal; of tbe Canadian Rockier.)

426,

 

 

 

 




 

 

O

427

MAN VERSUS OTTER.

 

. ‘2 f .1 . \ &..Iu\u\ \\ . .
A . . ~ . \\\ \ \ .
_ ”V“ \‘1 x .1 \\\1\\\ 1\“\ 1
\ .9 “xx \ ‘;\\\\\\N\‘ .§«§\\\\\ .
s 11. .1 xi» 1 \ KN V»? 1. -. airwas._
: ..... . ~ \5“ «\xx‘ 1. 1 {1.3

. KI
s.\ . ..
. \ t. ..
\ s 1 1 \1
1 .. . ....
31 I .
r. \V

,7 i. Eéiggr _
h‘ﬁlgv L . (/1. ”’01...

\(‘a \ 1/,6, 1. :
......vI. n v

‘1

. ......a—rawﬂr/g! .

 

f‘
9

comb

9
v

r, 1936

.i‘ﬂ a :7! .
. ...o, 4444)? 4 gr»,

1 .25,

n , z I
5.2».

 

- 5.12m... —. ..___.‘_. _

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Alan: We find you guilty of s/oyz'ng tbz’: poor fix/J, and senieme you to be tom [7! bounds until you are dead.

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Humane Education in a

F loatlng Vlllage
' AR away in the north-west of British
Columbia is a sChoolhouse on a raft
which forms part of a ﬂoating village.
3 The village is
moored in a very

i
i
i
‘.

 

deep and long
fiord—like inlet on
the precipitous
sides of which
grow giant ﬁr
trees from the
water’s edge to

the snow-line.

The fathers of
the twelve chil—
dren who attend
this school have
for a number of
years been engaged
in logging in this
far north district,
and most of the
children were born
in the ﬂoating-village, and have never been
more than a few miles away from it.

The photograph of the bear shows one of
the children’s many pets. Bruin is a great
favourite. He is just arriving on the school-
house ﬂoat in hope of something sweet. He
would like a jam—pot or a treacle-tin to lick out.

At this school the children are taught justice
and fair play to all animals, and are encouraged
to regard even the whales and sea-lions which
at certain times of the year come right up the
inlet, and swim round the Village, as friendly
to man, as indeed they are, if not molested
«or teased. LYDIA S. ELIOTT.

 

Photo by]

[Mrs. Arnold Eliott
S (boo/1.701156 on Raft.

Decmbar, 1936

The Beasts Name Adam

N many cases it is easy to see how people

came by their names, particularly in the

case of trades, like Butcher, Baker, Farmer,
~Joiner, Smith, Sawyer, Tanner, Taylor,
Teacher. But it would be interesting to
know how people came to be called after
animals. Here are some animal surnames
for people that I have come across :

Animal Surnames.
Banting, Buck, Brock, Bull, Batt, Beagle,
Bear.
Beaver, Borzoi, Boar.
Dane, Drill, Deer, Dogge.
Eland, Elk.
Fox, Ferret.
Gibbon.
Gopher.
Hogg, Howler, Hart, Hamster, Hound.
Lamb, Lizard, Lyon.
Marmot, Marten, Mole.
Ounce.
Panther, Python.
Shrew, Squirrel.
Tyger.
Wolf.

Insect Surnames.
Ant.
Bee.
Leech.
E. G. B.

World Day for Animals in Calgary.

Writing from Calgary, Alberta, Mrs. Dorothy
Anderson, of the Alberta Anti—Vivisection and Humane
Education Society, reports that the activities of St.
Francis? Day in Calgary were most successful. The
(fa/gag! Albertan and the Calgary Herald both published
letters dealing with the attitude of St. Francis towards
the animal kingdom and his understanding of the
unity of all life. The Rev. 0. A. Barry, Rector of the
Church of St. Francis, gave a ﬁne address over radio
station C.].C.J., preceded by a Violin solo by Miss
Ellen Foster accompanied by Mr. B. Hodgson, and
followed by a choral group of ﬁve ladies. Calgary
papers were very generous in giving publicity to an
appeal to school-teachers, clergy, and all engaged in
work amongst young people to bring the cause of
animal welfare to their attention. Each paper made
favourable editorial comment on this appeal.

During “ Vesper Hour ” on St. Francis’ Day, in a
radio programme from Winnipeg which is broadcast
over Canada, an interesting address was given by an
Anglican minister on the Life of St. Francis, including
in his outlook “ his wonderful love and gentleness to
his ‘ little brothers ’ the animals.”

We offer our hearty congratulations to Mrs. Anderson
and her co-workers on their achievement.

428

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

December, 1936

A Bird Watcher’s Diary

By HUDSON READ.

starling ﬂew down to the lawn at the
rear of my cottage. As he was the only
bird in the garden just then he swaggered
about with all the egoism of youth, and a
sense of possession. This youngster of the
year rather reminded one of a lanky school-boy,
in a very short Eton jacket, and trousers far
too brief for his long thin legs. After he
had inspected my two bird—tables with a bored
expression, he toyed about the grass.
Suddenly the bird discovered a half picked
bone, and began to shred bits of meat off with
his long beak. Now the starling used more
energy than discretion in the manipulation of.
the meat bone, so that he nearly fell backwards
into the bird—bath. With much ﬂutter of
wings he saved himself a ducking, but the bone
sank to the bottom of the little pond. At the
disappearance of his meal the expression on
that starling’s face was like that of a small boy
‘who has dropped a bag of sweets down a well.
For a second the bird was too surprised to
move. Then in great haste he searched under
fallen Sycamore leaves for his treasure. Then
he went to the edge of the bird—pond and
peeped at the water. “ Ah!” he seemed to
exclaim, and took a hurried peck at the water.
But with a quick jump he retired. At, ﬁrst
it was difﬁcult to ﬁnd what had frightened him,
then I discovered that it was his own reﬂection.
Probably he took this for another bird;
anyway he did not go near the pond again.
When the startled bird recovered his com—
posure, he walked up the lawn, with a false
pretence of bravado. As he rested for a
minute at the foot of a tree, one could see that
the mysterious disappearance of his meal,
and the lurking ghostly bird in the water still
puzzled his duIl intelligence.

I ATE one autumn afternoon a young

A Fine Gift Book.

The bound volume of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND for
1956, attractively bound in cloth boards—a volume
of 372 pages profusely illustrated with sketches and
photos of animals and birds, and with comprehensive
index, is nowready. It is a splendid gift or prize
book for anyone who is really interested in animal
life and welfare. This volume contains the issues from
January to October of this year inclusive, and the
succeeding volume will run from November, 1956, to
October, 1937.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Indian Weaver Bird ‘

    

T/Jreadmg B3535.

NE of the cleverest little birds in India
is the Weaver bird, so called from the
very ingenious way in which he weaves
grasses and ﬁbre into a remarkably ﬁne texture
from which he constructs the intricate structure
which is his home. This latter is oval in shape,
and in size and appearance is not unlike a
coconut. It is suspended from a branch,
almost invariably a thin one, and overhanging
water ; it is entirely enclosed save for a narrow
elongated passage projecting from the bottom
and pointing downwards. So cleverly is the
nest constructed that no enemy, not even the
smallest snake or lizard, can gain access to it.
The Hindus, who believe in the reincarnation

of souls, maintain that the weaver birds are

the re—embodiment of human weavers who had
not been too good at their work. Be this as
it may, the weaver bird is very easily tamed,
and among many achievements shows a remark—
able aptitude in the use of an ordinary needle.

The accompanying photograph shows a
weaver bird in the act of threading beads
with needle and
thread. The beads
are minutely small,
yet the little bird
picks up the needle
and thrusts the
point unerringly
through the hole
in the bead. One
after another the
beads are threaded
much quicker than
the deftest human
ﬁngers could ever _
do them.

 

RONALD SINCLAIR,
F.R.G.S.

429

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Library Table

A Book You Must Read.
TWENTY-FIVE years ago the major ani-

mals of Canada’s forests and prairies were

being slowly but surely driven to extinc—
tion. The bison, Rocky Mountain sheep and
goats, prong-horn ante-
lopes, trumpeter swans
and a host of other creat—
ures had practically dis-
appeared. When it was
nearly too late, Canada
realised the immensity of
the national tragedy.

A wave of desire for
wild life conservation
surged from Coast to
Coast, and James Bernard
Harkin, appointed Com-
missioner of the National
Parks, was expected to do
wonders. He knew
nothing about his task
—nor did anybody else
—-—yet he has achieved
many wonders, including the saving of the
bison> beaver, antelope and other creatures
on the verge of extermination.

In her fascinating book (Guardians of Me
Wild : Nelson, 23. 6d.), Miss Mabel Williams
gives the full story of Mr. Harkin’s work,
with a wealth of anecdotes and stories of the
animals. She has made her account read like
an enthralling novel, and all lovers of wild
life will wish to read it again and again.

Miss Williams traces the full story from the
beginnings in 1910 until the present day, and
she has produced a veritable romance of
conservation. Readers will note the very
intimate touch of her narrative and wonder
Whence she gleaned her knowledge. She
gives all praise to J. B. Harkin : yet, and this
betrays her secret, Mr. Harkin, in June this
year, told Mr. Harper Cory that Miss Williams
had been an inspiring and dominant factor
in the work of the Parks Branch for some
twenty years following that day in 1910 when,
with six others, she was appointed to the
new Commissioner’s staff. Thus she knows
the story because she was a part of it. Guardians
of dye Wild is highly recommended.

430

December, I 93 6

Animals of the Canadian Rockies. By Dan
McGowan. Lovat Dickson Limited,
128. 6d. net.

What an amazing wealth of animal life is
to be found in the Canadian Rockies, and how
full of wonder and delight is this story of the
comings and goings, the life and habits, the
personality and character of the animals to be
found in this vast region. Even the titles
of the chapters excite interest and surmise.
\Who can identify under the title of “ The
Gangster of the Greenwoods,” accompanied
by the apt quotation from the book of Psalms,
“Their feet are swift to shed blood,” the
creature described in the heading of Chapter
XXI. (The quotations at the head of each
chapter, by the way are quite a feature of this
book.) And what animal is disguised—or
revealed—under the nickname of “ The Rip
van \Y/inkle of the Rockies ”? \‘(lhat beast is
known as “ The Horse Pirate,” whose story
is heralded by the quotation from Shakespeare :

“ And every tongue brings in a several fale
And every tale eendenzns me for a villain.”

If you don’t know the answers to these
questions, you will find them along with many
other answered and unanswered questions,
which will set you thinking and wondering.
For, happily, the author doesn’t know every~
thing but speaks of what he has himself
seen and known of the ways of the wild life
of the Rockies, supplementing his own
observations and stories here and there, by
those of other experienced and competent
observers, to whom he accords generous
recognition. It is good to ﬁnd this ready
appreciation of other naturalists and observers.
The statement, for instance, that “ the maternal
instinct is more highly developed in the grizzly
bear than in any other animal of the mountains”
is made on the authority of James Brewster
who, the writer tells us “has provided me
with a wealth of subject matter, most of it
obtained from personal experience with the
grey bears of the Rockies.” This recognition
is characteristic of the author’s attitude.

It is interesting to note that the author is of
opinion that it cannot be deﬁnitely said that
the female grizzly is or is not in a state of
hibernation when the cubs are born, and he
gives his reasons for inclining to the belief
that “ bears do not actually hibernate in the
strict sense of the word.” Another of the
many interesting things he tells us, which
will take most readers by surprise, is the fact
that the most important animal in the Canadian

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

December, 1936

\X’ild, in his opinion, is the bear or the
buffalo or the beaver but the mouse, for
Seldom seen by man yet present in immense
numbers in all parts of the country, these tiny
rodents not only provide food for almost all birds
and beasts of prey, but also by their abundance or
scarcity, govern the welfare of every furred and
feathered creature in the Dominion.

Second in importance he places the Varying
Hare or Snowshoe Rabbit.

“ Animals of the Canadian Rockies ” is
not a scientiﬁc treatise but a book for nature
lovers who would learn something more of
the habits of the living creatures whose story
is told in the thirty—three chapters of a book
which holds our interest from cover to cover.
The stories are illustrated by the author’s
photographs, and animal folk lore, legend and
tradition enrich its contents. It is a book we
commend highly to anyone, between the ages
of 16 and 80, interested in animal life.

Tales of an Empty Cabin. By Grey Owl.
Lovat Dickson Limited. 108. 6d. net.

In Tales of an Empty Cabin Grey Owl has
given us another book that is worth while,
though we cannot endorse the publisher’s
View that this is his greatest book. It is true
that the range of interest is wider and more
diverse than that of Pilgrims of tbe IVi/d, but
the interest is not so well sustained nor is it so

'appealing as in that classic, and the prose of
the writer does not give the same impression
of spontaneous feeling and expression.

Book I is given over to Tales of the
Canadian Northland and in its pages are
enshrined memories of Grey Owl’s bygone
days of the days before, to quote his own
words, “I laid aside my riﬂe and my traps
and, like Paul, worked for the betterment
of those whom I had so assiduously perse—
cuted.”

Book II, entitled includes tales of the
River and Rivermen among others but it is
in Book III that Grey Owl comes into his
own, for here he writes once more of the
Beaver People he knows and loves so well,
of Jellyroll, Rawhide and their offspring ;
of the Lone Bull Moose who—-

without subjugation, training or conﬁnement,
and on account of no consideration of food or
safety, but just because he is contented here,
happy and above all—free, will leave for a time
his chosen mate, to rest in my door-yard for an
houn

In this section, too, we can read of the
Bears of Waskesieu, and there is a fascinating

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

chapter entitled “ All Things Both Great and
Small.” ‘ J
In the last chapter of this section under
the heading of “ Tolerance,” the author
writes of the present day attitude towards and
exploitation of animals from the point of View
of one whose experience has been that
As a man lives longer and longer in the woods,
so he entertains, if he be of an entertaining nature,
an ever-increasing‘respect and love for wild life
in all its varied forms. He hesitates at last to
kill, and even when necessity demands that he
take life he does so with feelings of apology,
even of regret for the act.

This is a book you should not overlook.
R. H. S.

Many Enchantments. By Lesley Keen Segal
\Vith illustrations by the Author. Peter
Davies. 73. 6d. net.

This is a work of ﬁction—highly praised
in the general press for its originality and
charm. In it are recounted the strange events
that occur in the village of Brimsdown and
the diversity of odd characters around which
they centre in a story which is witty, tragic,
bizarre and lyrical by turns. Its special
interest for readers of this magazine will be
found in the eloquent plea for caged birds
made in Chapter III.

King. The Story of a Sheep-Dog. By
T. C. Hinkle. Illustrated by George
\W right. Arrowsmith. 5s.

This is an exciting story of a sheep dog’s
adventures in the Wild \X’est, and its swift
series of incidents would vastly entertain the
schoolboy reader at the “ Boy Scout ” age.

The human beings—with one or two
notable exceptions—with whom King comes
in contact show a full measure of under—
standing of dog nature, and King really is a
dog and not a ﬁctitious animal of man’s
imagination. It does, however, seem to us a
pity that no effort is made in the book to
kindle sympathy with other animals, not so
linked to man as our friend the dog. In a
wildly exciting account of King’s ﬁght with a
frenzied and maddened steer who attacks his
adored master, Denny, such epithets as “ the
savage dun beast ” and “ the deadly brute ” are
freely used, and there is no suggestlon that
such furious enmity to man may have been
due, in part, to man’s mishandling.

A. L. H.

431

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, /-"" .r~.w;‘,OMrw—mu ‘ 7W” .W“—.~‘f.f;:a>%::§ZJ-IMJM "—02:3ivyuum—mv:

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The National Council

December, I 936

for Animals’ Welfare

H071. Organising Secretary: COMMANDER J. L. CATHER, R.N.

Meeting at Rochdale.

A meeting of the Rochdale Branch of the
National Council for Animals’ \Velfare was
held at Barney’s
Café on Thurs-
day last. The
speaker was Miss
Dorothy Barrs,
National Organ-
- . -. iser of the Coun—
.. l cil. Mrs. c. H.

Porritt, in intro—
ducing Miss Barrs, reminded those present
of her ﬁrst visit in 1929, when the Branch
was formed and the inaugural meeting was
held in the Town Hall under the chairmanship
of the reigning Mayor, Councillor J. T.
Dawson, ].P., and outlined some of the work

achieved in Rochdale during the intervening
period.

Miss Barrs spoke on the attitude of the
National Council towards the various aspects
of the Movement, which was based on the
conception of the value of all life, and the
kinship of life, the principles for which it
stands, and its points of view with regard to
Man’s relationship with the Animals. She
pointed out that the chief cause of all prob—
lems is exploitation, greed, selﬁshness and the
desire for power, position and authority.
Only by realising that these characteristics
in the individual produce mass exploitation,
mass selﬁshness and so on, resulting in so
many evils, can we, as individuals, lessen the
cruelty and suffering of the animal and human
kingdoms. In order to achieve the aims
of the Council Miss Barrs stressed the import-
ance of early humane educational training

 
 

. of the young, also of the co—operation of the

parents in the home with the teachers, for only
so will the next generation complete, and bring
to fruition, the work of the past and present
and a ﬁner and nobler humanity be raised.
She felt that humanity, as a whole, had not
yet realised its responsibility towards the
animals, and one aspect of the Work of the
Council was designed to achieve a different
attitude in our relationship with the animals,
by which kindness and humaneness would

supersede cruelty, and exploitation give place
to understanding.

Miss BarrS’ Irish Tour.

The National Organiser (Miss Dorothy
Barrs) has completed a very successful visit
to Northern Ireland. She addressed nine
Branch Meetings of the Ulster Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
aroused interest in the work of the National
Council for Animals’ \Welfare. Many mem-
bers of the audiences have expressed ap—
preciation at coming into contact with an
entirely different point of view to that usually
presented at meetings of this kind, and of
hearing something of the special contribution
of the Council to the Movement as a whole,
based on its conception of the value of all life
and the kinship of life. Miss Barrs also
addressed a very successful gathering of child-
ren at Dungannon in the Cinema at which
R.S.P.C.A. ﬁlms were shown, and the League
of Justice to Animals arranged a meeting at
Bushmills, which was well attended by the
children who enjoyed the various items of the
programme, including a talk from Miss
Barrs.

Addresses were also given by Miss Barrs
during her tour at ten day schools and two
Sunday schools.

Bromley (Kent) Animal Welfare Council.

The inaugural public meeting of this newly—
formed Council of which Mr. Hugh McCleery
is President was held on Friday, November
15th, and was addressed by Miss Helen
Trevelyan and Mr. Robert H. Spurrier.
Councillor W7. Guthrie was in the chair, and
in the course of his remarks disclosed the fact
that he was a vegetarian of forty years standing.
Mr. N. Birch has been chosen as Chairman of
the Executive Committee, and Mr. C. C.
Jamblin as its Hon. Secretary. Mr. McCleery
made a short statement during the evening
as to the aims of the Council which we believe
will do useful educational work. The effect
of this should be to stimulate interest in and
help on the work of all other kindred societies
in the district.

Animals’ Welfare Week, 1937.

Owing to the Coronation having been ﬁxed for the
second week in May, it has been thought advisable

‘to postpone the Week until the Coronation and its

accompanying festivities are over. It will be held in
June, the ofﬁc1al inclusive dates being June 20-27.

R. H. S.

432

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

December, 1936

“Conscientious Conviction”

N October 27th the Registrar of the

Luton Bankruptcy Court made an order

adjudicating Captain E. T. MacMichael
bankrupt, and as the result of his refusal to
answer certain interrogatories on that occasion
Captain MacMichael was committed to Bedford
Prison. (It was in Bedford Prison that John
Bunyan was incarcerated for conscience’ sake.)
As pointed out in the letter printed below,
Mr. MacMichael refuses to acknowledge the
justice of the alleged “ debts ” which brought
him into Court, but reports which have
appeared in the Press have undoubtedly created

the impression amongst those who do not

realise Captain MacMichael’s integrity and the
circumstances of the case, that he has been
'adjudicated bankrupt because of his inability
to meet his financial liabilities and not because
he challenges the legality of certain damages
and costs in which he has been mulcted in
connection with legal proceedings arising out
of his activities on behalf of the Performing
and Captive Animals Defence League.

In order to help to remove this injurious
impression, we are glad to give publicity to
an excellent letter from the pen of the President
of the Letchworth League for the Protection
of Animals which was published in the Garden
City Advertirer of November 5th last, in which
the position is stated with admirable common—
sense and restraint. It reads as follows :—

SIR,——It is only fair to correct an impression
which seems to have gained some currency among
people who do not know Capt. MacMichael, to
the effect that he has become a bankrupt in the
ordinary way, and that anyone to whom he may
owe money will be likely to lose it. This im—
pression, which is an utter mistake, has already
caused some distress and annoyance to his wife
and family.

The fact is that Capt. MacMichael did not
acknowledge the justice of those alleged “ debts ”
which brought him into the Court. They were
not debts in the ordinary sense, but legal damages
and costs arising from his opposition to a circus
in London some time ago. No other creditors
were concerned but those connected with that
controversy, carried on by him for the sake of the
animals which perform in circuses.

Capt. MacMichael is not the kind of man to fail
to pay any debt which he knows to be lawfully
owed by him for goods or services rendered. The
whole trouble in this case sprang from the struggle
which his League maintains against cruelty to per-
forming animals. Without this explanation, public
opinion would be misled.

Whether his line of protest is or is not the most
practical, it is based on conscientious conviction,
and on a respect for the law which many people
cannot quite share.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Probably most good lawyers would warn the-
humane reformer against carrying his controversies.
into the law courts; and they might even quote
Dickens (“ Oliver Twist,” chapter 51) or Sir
Walter Scott (“ Guy Mannering,” chapter 9).

Yours truly,
N. D. DEUCHAR,
President, Letthert/J League for the
Protection qf Aninzaly. ' ‘
122, Wilbury Road, Letchworth.
October 31$t, 1936.

In an unsigned footnote to Mr. Deuchar’s
letter the following sentences occur: “ I am
afraid my readers will not be able to appreciate
the distinction which Mr. Deuchar suggests
there is between one kind of debt and another.”
The writer of this note surely is taking an
unduly pessimistic view of the intelligence of
his readers; at any rate we hope he is.
mistaken, if only for the sake of the reputation
of the Garden City intelligentsia. Whatever-
our own views may be as to the line of protest.
adopted by Captain MacMichael we fully
endorse paragraph 4 of Mr. Deuchar’s letter,
and feel sure that readers of THE ANIMALS”
FRIEND will be able to appreciate that dis—-

tinction between one kind of debt and another-

which the writer of the footnote considers

beyond the intelligence of readers of T193 Garden ,

Cit} Adrertz'ter. R, H, S.

 

Photo by]

[James Hampson, Edgware

“ Sea/1 I? ” ‘

433

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

aww..~.«.i ........... .._. .

i"

December, I 93 6

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD, 4, Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I.

Anti Hare-Coursing Petition.

' HE Society’s petition to Parliament
(organised in conjunction with the
Worthing Animal Welfare Group)

is still open for signature. Many members
. have already given us valuable help in circu—
lating the petition, but there are still many
districts to which it has not yet penetrated.
We would urge all members and sympathisers
who have not yet had a copy of the petition
to apply to us. Each form holds only twenty—
five signatures; but every single signature is
valuable, and we shall be glad of even partially
ﬁlled forms.

The petiton has already been noticed in
the daily press. Coursing is rife in West
Sussex, and, according to The D421)» Sleek/9
report, Bognor residents complain that they
hear the cries of the hares. It is hoped
to make a special appeal against coursing to
members of the W'est Sussex County Council.

Through the energetic action of Mrs.
Zabell-Chalmers, one of our members, an
Anti Cruel Sports shop was rented and stocked
with posters, petition forms etc., at \X’orthing,
during the last week in August; and this was
followed by a similar venture at Bognor
Regis in the second week in September. These
two shops attracted considerable attention.

Schools Propaganda.

The Society is steadily continuing its
propaganda among Elementary Schools, and
our special Junior Series leaﬂets are proving
consistently popular. During the current
year we have distributed to schools throughout
the country, mainly in response to orders,
double the quantity of these leaﬂets previously
issued; and the circulation of the six leaﬂets
in this series has now reached a quarter of a
million.

A great many of the orders lately received
have come from schools in rural districts.
We quote the, following pertinent remarks
from a Head =<Teacher in Essex: “ These
‘ rurals ’ know more about what you are
trying to abolish than town children, so I
hope you will persevere with the country
schools.” This is particularly interesting in
view of the misleading statement touching
this branch of our work published in the

sixth Annual Report of the British. Field
Sports Society. Under the heading Greer/arr
2‘0 Selma/s we read that “ the National Soc1ety
for the Abolition of Cruel Sports devotes

.much of its funds and enthusiasm to circulating

pamphlets to various State—supported schools
throughout the country.” According to the
Report, signed by the Chairman, Lord Bayford,
much of this material “ doubtless goes into
the waste—paper basket of the school-teacher to .
whom it is addressed, but in certain urban
districts it is distributed to the pupils. There
is no justification for making use of the
national educational system as a cheap means
of supplying unbalanced views to young and
impressionable children who have no oppor-
tunity of learning of the other p01nt of View.
If, therefore, members hear of any cases where
such propaganda has been distributed. the,
Society will be glad to take appropriate action.
This laboured attempt to discredit our work
is amusingly ineffective.

The Economics of Fox-Hunting. '
During October last “inspired” articles
on the advantages of fox—hunting to the
community appeared in a number of news—
papers with such sub—headings as “ Rural
Industries Helped” and “ j612,000,000 on
Hunting.” Tbe Sande} Pretoria! under the,
heading “ It Costs £800 a year to kill a fox,
stated, on the authority of the British Field
Sports Society, that “ between now and

'October 1937 £12,000,000 will be spent on

hunting, and approximately 15,000 foxes

will be killed.”

It is obvious that the statement “It costs
£800 a year to kill a fox” is entirely mis—
leading. It should read, “Fox—ﬂamers spend
£800 a year to kill a fox.” Seeing that fox—
hunters are fond of asserting that foxes must be
kept down (sometimes for the sake of the
farmer, and sometimes for the sake of the fox),
this amazing boast ought to interest even the
impartial reader. In the olden times when the
fox was considered as “ vermin,” the parish
Church Wardens occasional/J paid as much as
63. 8d. for its destruction, according to. the
ﬂgurEs given by Mr. Charles Qldham in .a
leaﬂet, Tbe Cort of a Fox, published by this
Society.

434

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Decemner, 1936

THE ANIMALS" FRIEND

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society
Hon. Secretary: D. JEFFERY WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8

(The fol/0 wing extracts are taken from ﬁre
annual report 0f the P.P.P.S. for the “year
ending September gotb, 1936.)

Press and Parliament—Our activities in the
press and in Parliament were continued in
the course of the year, and investigations
were made into alleged cases of overworking
and neglect. Action was taken to remedy
matters where it was found necessary.

Our Campaign—During the year we have
continued to circulate by post to selected
individuals our lists of non—pony pits together
with leaﬂets and an invitation to contribute
to our funds. Many thousands of lists and
leaﬂets were sent to people residing in the
following places: Cheltenham and District,
Basingstoke and neighbourhood, Guildford,
Godalming and neighbourhood, Warwick,
Leamington Spa, Stratford—on—Avon, Kenil—
worth and neighbourhood, Esher, Claygate,
The Dittons, Cobham, East and West Molesey,
etc. This work has been very systematically
done, and has meant securing extra help in the
office from time to time. Entirely new ground
has been broken by means of this work, and
we have been able to reach thousands who
before had never heard of our efforts on behalf
of horses and ponies employed in mines. It
is interesting to note that during last year the
Society has secured 246 new subscribers.

A N en} Bil/.—Much work in the preparation
of a new Bill to be introduced into the House
of Lords was carried out during the year in
co-operation with the R.S.P.C.A. We have
ventured to draft about thirteen provisional
amendments to the Third Schedule of the
Coal Mines Act, 1911, eight new sub—clauses
to Section 45 of the Act, and one new sub—
clause to Section 109‘ of the Act. These pro—
posals deal with matters such as proper cages
in which to lower and raise ponies into and
from the pits, proper partitions to stalls in
stables, lighting and bedding in stables,
duties of horse-keepers, intervals for feeding
during a shift, removal of diseased or disabled
ponies from the mine, provision of a single
8-hour shift per day, raising the age of drivers
to 16 and provide proper training of drivers,
removal of seriously injured horses to the
surface for treatment, and the entering of

435

reports by drivers of road and roof conditions
in the horse-keeper’s record book. The
foregoing, among other suggestions, are put
forward as amendments to the Third Schedule
of the present Act.

The proposals suggested as additions to-
Section 45 of the 1911 Act aim at securing
standard heights and widths along pony—
haulage roads to prevent the animals from
rubbing against low roofs and narrow sides;
to secure roads clear of stones, dust, water,
or other obstructions; to prevent ponies
working on excessively steep roads, to provide
lighting on all roads, and to stop the practice:
of digging holes between sleepers on roads
along which ponies travel. It is also suggested
that all ponies should carry approved electric
battery lamps as is now done in some collieries,
and that reserve horses and ponies be kept at
all collieries to meet cases of emergency. We
further suggest that competent veterinary
surgeons appointed by and responsible to the
Divisional Inspectors should examine all the
ponies three times a year. It is also suggested
that no ponies should be employed in new
mines and in new districts and seams of old
mines, and that no horse or pony shall be
worked below ground over the age of 15
years.

Detailed reasons in support of each of the
above proposals have been put together in
the form of a Memorandum. The Secretary
attended many sittings of the Royal Commis—
sion on Safety in Mines during the year, and
some of the proposals mentioned above were
developed in the light of the official evidence
submitted to the Commission.

Finance—The work of the society continues
to expand and entails much close and persistent
attention. May we ask for continued support
and for increased support in the coming year ?
The cause deserves to be supported and we
shall always welcome new subscribers. \‘Ve
received j€89 83. 9d. more in subscriptions and
donations last year than in the previous year,
but as we are entirely dependent on such con—
tributions, and receive no interest on invest—
ments of any kind, we must rely on the con.—
tinued generosity of our friends.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

...-—-’—’———~.

“THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

December, 1936

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Secretary: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.I.

Birmingham Campaign.

. N October the League held a successful.

week’s shop campaign in Birmingham,

when much interest was aroused and many
signatures obtained to our Parliamentary
petition. The Secretary contributed four
articles to The Town Crier (the official organ
of the Birmingham Labour Party) by request.
The Midland Ramblers’ Federation passed a
strong resolution condemning blood sports,
particularly on National Trust lands.

During the week Miss L. Lynette Stevens,
The Cottage, Vicarage Road, Edgbaston,
was appointed Honorary District Representa—
tive of the League, and she will be pleased
to hear from all local. readers of THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND who are interested and who desire
to promote our cause in the district.

Letter to H.M. The King.

The following letter was recently sent by
the President of the League to the King’s
Secretary 2——

“ DEAR SIR,——~On behalf of many animal lovers
in town and country we respectfully offer our
thanks to His Majesty for his action in substituting
the camera for the gun during his recent visit to
Balmoral. His Majesty’s courageous lead should
assuredly be a powerful stimulus to others to

. abandon sports involving the killing of wild
animals, the continuance of which is distressing
to a growing number of His Majesty’s subjects.”

The letter was acknowledged, and also
mentioned in the B.B.C’s News Bulletin on
Saturday, October 17th.

The Duke of Gloucester and Hunting.

Regret is expressed in Leicestershire hunting
circles because the Duke of Gloucester has
sold his hunters. The Duke has since been
out with the Staff College Draghounds.

.Hastings Man Shoots Foxes.
On August 26th the Having: Observer
reported that Mr. B. E. Rackliff, a Pebsham

smallholder, had shot twenty foxes. It appears

1 that the East Sussex Hunt wrote Mr. Rackliff
to the effect that they were not going to

. compensate any more small people, so he

informed them that he was going to shoot
all the foxes that came on his ground in future,

and bought a new Io—bore gun for the job.
Mrs. Rackliff told a reporter: “I certainly
think fox—hunting is cruel. They should
hunt them with guns instead of hounds.”
The report provoked controversy in the

l

l
:I
g
i
l
’.

l

\

following three issues of the paper, when it _

was precipitately closed by the Editor.

Press Campaign.

The press campaign is continuing, and
many letters have been published. Our
opposing society is very concerned regarding
the circulation of a leaflet containing the
views of farmers and others on the humane
destruction of unwanted foxes.

Children’s Film Society.

At the request of a member the Secretary
wrote to protest to the Children’s Film
Society, Everyman Cinema Theatre, Hamp-
stead, N.W.5, against the inclusion of hunting
ﬁlms in their 1956—7 syllabus.

The secretary replied : “ We never intended
to show ﬁlms about fox—hunting or any allied
sport; we had in mind a film of jungle life,
where the dangers of encounter with wild
beasts has its adventurous moments. No
deﬁnite film of this nature has, however, been
booked, and we will certainly be careful in
what we Show.”

We have arranged to Visit the shows, which
will be held on December 12th, January 2 3rd,
February 13th, and March 6th, at 11 a.m.

Bristol Junior Branch’s Pageant.

In July the Bristol Junior Branch of the
League, in conjunction with the Junior
Division of the R.S.P.C.A., gave an entertain-
ment in the garden of the President, Canon
Hunter—Robertson. A large number of parents
and friends were present to listen to an address
by the Dean of Bristol, songs and violin solos
by members, and also to view a Pageant
entitled “ The Mirror of Creation,” presented
by the members, in which the spirits of the
animals appeared to accuse those who oppressed
and ill—treated them. The League’s anti—
hunting song to the tune of “John Peel”
was sung very effectively. The play was
wrtitten by Miss W. Medway and produced
by her and Mrs. Trueman.

 

 

 

 

436

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

December; . I93 6

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

The Humane Education Society

80, MOSLEY STREET, MANCHESTER.

President: GEORGE ARLIss.

Seerez‘my: ARTHUR MIDDLETON.

London Centre: MISS M. E. TURNER, Vice-President (former Inspector of Schools).
. ‘ ' MISS BERNARD, Hon. Sec.

London Teachers Humane Education
Circle.

URING October, our Chairman, Miss

. M. E. Turner, the Hon. Secretary,

Miss Bernard, and The Secretary from

Manchester Headquarters, Mr. Arthur Middle—

ton, met together for an informal and enjoyable

discussion concerning the Humane Education
Movement.

Many items of interest were discussed and
it is hoped by friends in London, Manchester
and other centres, that more opportunities
may occur in 1937 for interchange of thought
and ideas. A great deal of useful work is
often set going ahead by means of Group
Meetings.

Children’s Entertainment.

A very enjoyable Meeting and Entertain—
ment took place recently in The London
Fields Fellowship Hall. School children from
various Centres were present, also a number
of adults. Boys and girls from Dalston
Schools gave a delightful performance of the
little play, “ Prince Ju-Ju.” This had been
given earlier in the year, and had aroused
great interest. Miss Morgan, one of the good
workers of The Humane Education Circle,
very kindly consented to produce this again,
assisted by several colleagues from the School,
and by Miss K. J. Millward, another good
friend of children and animals. “ Prince
Ju—Ju ” was acted with real charm and sin-
cerity by the children. Miss. Morgan gave a
brief outline of the main features, which
brought into action the value and meaning
of The Golden Rule. Other items were
given during the evening, including The
Animals’ Alphabet.

Mr. Arthur Middleton of The Humane
Education Society, was invited to preside.
He expressed grateful thanks to all the children,
teachers, and workers for the excellent work
accomplished.

Campaign in Glasgow.

Miss Jean Lambie has been running a
successful educational Campaign in Glasgow.
For, about 14 days in October and November,

~ good work has been done by her, in a shop

situated in St. George’s Road, and at another
period, by means of a Literature and Poster
Stall in the Public Market.

The general display contained reference
to the leading forms of cruelty and ignorance.
Two special sections dealt with Captive and

'Performing Animals, and the teaching of

young people to be kind and thoughful to all
creatures. Girls, boys and adults visited
these Centres in large numbers. Literature
was circulated far and wide in schools and
homes.

Miss Lambie deserves the praise and en—
couragement of animal lovers for the way in
which she has overcome great difﬁculties in
organising these campaigns. She does the
Work without fee or reward, even though
practically without any income of her own
and being far from well in health.

East Africa.

Several essays from school children in
East Africa have reached us. These reflect
great credit upon the native scholars and their
teachers, and show a good grasp of humane
principles, both in a general sense and in
detail.

A message of cordial appreciation and a gift
for each child has been sent.

One little boy, Chotalal Somaia, writes :—

“ God has created all the human beings
and birds and animals, so they should be
treated kindly. Just as we do not like that
others should in any way spoil or harm things
made by us, God also will not like His little

beautiful birds and the animals to be killed .

or harmed, or spoiled by human beings.

In‘ this world the animals cannot demand
justice, or speak, or complain, surely they will
relate all cruel treatment to our common
Father—God—after death. There are some
ways by which we can at least do something
in the matter. Forming Societies for pre—
venting cruelty, writing to newspapers, and
giving small books to people about it. We
can go personally to places where cruelty
goes on and try to stop it by persuasiOn.”

437

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

December, I 936

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

Hon. Sammy/z MISS N. IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed.)

Oﬁres: EDINBURGH—Io QUEENSFERRY STREET.

The Dogs’ Bazaar.

N aid of the Scottish Society for the Preven-
Ition of Vivisection, the Dogs’ Bazaar,

which was held on Tuesday, the 24th
November, in the Music Hall, George Street,
Edinburgh, was, as usual, a remarkably
successful function.

The Countess of Haddington, who presided
at the opening ceremony, called upon Leonora,
Countess of Tankerville, to open the bazaar.

The platform party included Rosalie,
Countess of Buchan, Miss N. Ivory, Hon.
Secretary of the Bazaar, Mrs. Carlyle—Deas,
Hon. Treasurer, Mrs. G. W. Black, and last,
but not least, the Bazaar Conveners, with
their respective mistresses, Mrs. Elliot and
Mrs. Smith, and the Rev. W. Percival-Prescott,
who moved a. vote of thanks to the speakers.

Amongst the animal lovers who helped to
make this most attractive bazaar a success
were the following :—

Miss N. Ivory, Mrs. Carlyle-Deas, Mrs.
G. W. Black, Mrs. Cuthill, Mrs. Ross, Mrs.
Stewart, Mrs. H. More Nesbitt, Mrs. Sander—
son, Miss Donaldson, Mrs. Grieve, Miss
Liston Banks, Mrs. Thompson, the Misses
Hunter, Lady McKechnie, Mrs. Fenton, Mrs.
Maxwell, Mrs. Hannah, Miss Bain, Mrs.
MacQueen Ferguson, Mrs. Tweedie, Mrs.
and Miss Anderson, Mrs. Robertson, the
Countess of Buchan, the Countess of Hadding—
ton, Mrs. Rogers, Mrs. McLeod Easson,
Mrs. and Miss Roberts, Mrs. Cowan, Miss
Kerr (Ayrshire), Miss Lenton (the Scottish
Tailwaggers’ Stall), Mr. Metcalfe (Lanarkshire),
Mrs. H. McNeill, Miss SherrifI, Mrs. Robertson,
and Miss Whyte.

The stalls were attractively laden with useful
Christmas gifts, etc., and there was a crowded
attendance which kept the stall—holders well
occupied till late in the afternoon. The total
drawings amounted to £1,164.

To ALL OUR KIND FRIENDS EVERYWHERE,
the Conveners of the Dog’s Bazaar, Tony,
Buster, Diana and little \X/endy send their
best thanks for valuable assistance in making
the bazaar an unqualiﬁed success.

(Signed) NETTA IVORY,
H022. Seereimy.

GLASGOW—I47 BATH STREET.

“ Study Health, not Disease.”

Under the above heading the extracts from
a press report of the opening ceremony of
the Dogs’ Bazaar is printed below :

The Countess of Haddington presided at
the opening ceremony, and Rosalie Countess
of Buchan was one of the platform party.
The platform party also included four canine
members—two rare white Eskimo dogs and
two black spaniels, all of whom took a lively
interest in the proceedings.

The Countess of Tankerville expressed
appreciation of the work of those who had
assisted, especially the secretary, Miss Ivory.

Vivisection, she said, was called medical
research, but it was not a search for Nature’s
laws of health. Few medical research workers
were practising doctors. They were told
there was little cruelty about Vivisection,
but they were not allowed to go and see
behind the locked doors and screens that
were put up.

Dogs and other animals were cut up,
frozen, tortured, and made to have unnatural
diseases. A Harvard Professor had said
there was no doubt there existed cruelty to
animals far transcending in its horrors any-
thing known in the history of nations. The

torture of animals was more terrible than,

burning at the stake. The law should interfere.

“ The Inquisition has ended, slavery has
ended, and vivisection is going to end because
of public opinion,” said Lady Tankerville,
amid applause.

The Society was not against doctors or
science. But it was against using medicine
as a disguise for barbaric and futile cruelty.

“ Let us by all means uphold the revision
of the medical curriculum,” said Lady
Tankerville, in conclusion. “ Let us study
health, not disease; not medical substitutes
for disease, but healthy personal conditions
and sanitary laWs.”

The proceeds of the bazaar amounted to

2€1,156.
(T176 Seals/72472, 25/1 1/36.)

438

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

December, 1936

Do Dogs Deserve This?

T the Sixth International Congress of
APhysical Medicine held a few weeks ago,

Sir Leonard Hill, F.R.S., referred to
certain experiments made to test the stamina
of human beings and animals. According to
Tbe Morning Post, he stated that “ a fox-terrier,
suitably fed, had run 88 miles and climbed 14
miles on a treadmill in the course of 17 hours
before wearying of exercise.”

It is such senseless research as this that the
Dogs’ Protection Bill is designed to put an
end to. This particular type of experiment is
demonstrably futile, because we already know
that dogs can and do cover incredible distances
in the course of a day of their own free will.
But there is all the difference in the world
between a jog-trot along paths and ﬁelds,
when the dog can ease up or stop whenever
he wishes, and" sustained and compulsory
effort over a number of hours. We hear of
people who will compel their dogs to cover
many miles behind a bicycle or cart, or even
behind a motor-bus or car. From reports
which reach us there are many dog—owners
who, while themselves making use of com-
fortable means of speedy locomotion, leave
their canine friends to toil along on their own
feet. The faithful animals, although suffering
extreme distress, would rather drop than
give up.

This is a form of cruelty that is very diHicult
to put down, but the League is doing all it
can to that end by Press and ﬁlm propaganda.
Our ﬁlm, “ Lucky Dogs and Others,” contains
a strong condemnation of the practice, and
in our new ﬁlm, which will shortly appear in
many cinemas in the autumn, we hope to make
an even stronger appeal against this thoughtless
and cruel practice.

(From Tbe Degr’ BnZ/ez‘z'n, Abilene] Canine
Defence League.)

 

 

To flee Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.
KNOWLEDGE.

SIR,-—Hunting people talk a lot of nonsense about
the cruelty of Hunting, and know that they are talking
nonsense, but what they do not know is that we
Humanitarians know that they know that they are
talking nonsense.

S. CLAUDE TICKELL.

Vicar, Latton-cum—Eysey,

Cricklade.

*w-__ . A."_4__. , 7.x-

THE AN IMALS’ FRIEND

Correspondence.

Te t/Je Editor of THE A'NIMALS’ FRIEND.
MARKET CRUELTIES.

DEAR SiR,———I have been to one or two private
cattle sales lately and have been horrified at the treat—
ment of the cows and calves.

It is the practice not to milk the cows for about 30
hours before the sale so that they shall have the ap-
pearance of being good milkers, and during that time
the calves, not being allowed to go 30 their mothers,
are practically starved.

I went to a large sale in Sussex where there were
about 150 cows and calves sold. The sale took place
at I2 o’clock, noon, and I enquired, and was told that
none of the cows had been milked since the morning
of the previous day.

The bellowing of the cows and the crying of the
calves at these sales is incessant.

On the way back from the shed where the auctioneer
sold the cattle, one poor little calf, which was being
very roughly treated, fell down. I expostulated with
the men at the way the calf was handled and they ieered
at me and then pulled the calf along the ground by its
tail, after which one man lifted the calf by the string
round its neck and one by its tail, carried it along, and
threw it down in the cow house. An onlooker
remarked “ Calves can’t feel.” There was no telephone
nearer than two miles and for a long time I could
ﬁnd no one to help. Eventually I found a policeman
in the road and after much persuasion he said he would
go and see what he could do, but by this time the calf
in question had disappeared.

This is only one case amongst the 150 sold. \W e are
horriﬁed, and rightly so, at the brutal treatment of
horses sold to the Continent for butchery and particular—
ly where we know that those employed in this diabolical
occupation say that as a horse is for slaughter it is not
necessary to give it food or drink, never mind, how
famished the poor creature may be, but, how many
of the British Public know that calves are being treated
in the same way, eneiy day, in our own country?

Bull calves are not needed in the Milk Producing
Scheme so they are taken from their mothers as soon
as possible after they are born, and sent to the first
available market. Here they are bought for slaughter
and, after being at leaxt for a day without any nonrir/nnent,
are killed. Many of them, even if they had the chance,
are incapable of taking food except from their mothers.
I heard the other day of a dealer who bought calves
from one market, took them back to his own place, tied
their mouths up all night so that no one should hear
their cry, and sold them at another market the next
day. In that case the calves would be without food
or drink for at least two days and after that time they
were probably slaughtered.

Large truck loads of calves are continually sent by
rail for the slaughterhouses in this country, and are
fetched from the goods stations by lorries. Who
knows when they last had any food or water or how
long since they started on their journey?

Surely the humane public should be aroused to the
knowledge of this appalling cruelty and immediate
steps should be taken to stop it.

One has only to go to the cattle markets in our
market towns to see these conditions every day.

Yours faithfully,
“ EYE—W’ITNESS.”

439

.— ”x‘ ,4,_‘___

 




- . 2.. - - 4.4.
;.-E_...__¥. ”744.-.“; a. . .1“-.‘.‘_a‘.;-_.:.:.-,...-'.'~_<_m._.- .ax._.s.._...-_ 3......” w. .. . 1 __ me {MMA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

To the Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE REFORM.

DEAR SIR,—In the correspondence columns of the
November issue Of your Magazine, Mr. Alfred Brisco
brings graphically to the notice of readers all that

precedes the ﬁnal phase of a grim tragedy—the actual

slaughter.

I have read in the Press that animals considered
indispensable for food can always be killed in a pain/e55,
z'mz‘am‘emeom way, but it is a consistent inconsistency
for ﬂesh—eaters to believe in the fallacy that the method
of humane slaughter involves “no distress or pain
to animal-kind.”

I have seen a bullock felled almost instantaneously
by one blow of the pole-axe! But it is a well—known
fact that such like precision and force could not be
generally relied on. The Humane Killer (Cash’s
Captive-Bolt Pistol) can be depended upon—this
instrument is considered the most reliable for non-
failure. ‘

But all stunning processes are inseparable from
terriﬁc shock to the doomed creature. Mr. W. Payne,
Of the National Federation Of Meat Traders’ Associa-
tion, truly and logically remarked: “N0 imp/emem‘
that takes the life Of an animal in full blood and vigour
can be named [Ir/mane.”

Why not be a ﬂesh abstainer, and get right away
from the slaughterhouse with its attendant horrors
and suffering tO sub-humankind? Surely we have a
profuse variety Of foods other than the f/erb and b/ood
kind.

The l\IOther Earth supplies all that is necessary for
the complete sustenance Of mankind in every calling
Of life, whether mental or manual, in cereals, pulses,
vegetables, salads, fruits, nuts, and honey, nut-fats,
fats and olive Oils, etc. “ Marmite ”—an appetising,
non—animal extract rich in vitamins—is useful for
sandwiches, gravy, soups, and other culinary purposes.

HENRY J. BAYLIS.
Teddington, Middiesex.

To z‘be Edz'z‘or of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,——Whether Alfred Brisco is justiﬁed in
all the statements in his letter on slaughterhouse reform
in your issue for November or not, I look forward
to the day when the multitude of what are in so many
ways undesirable slaughterhouses are replaced by
abattoirs designed to meet the requirements now so
well known. -

I feel very strongly that meanwhile it would be well
if all those who pay attention to the matter Of slaughter
were to appreciate what possibilities Of eliminating
Objectionable features in slaughter, and the use Of
existing slaughterhouses, are afforded by the provisions
in the body, and the schedule, of the Slaughter Of
Animals Act, 1933, if the same are strictly observed
and enforced. ~ .

If any one provision is allowed tO be viewed and
treated weakly it will quickly lead tO a weak attitude
by the responsible body, i.e., the local Local Authority,
in the execution Of ”Mil" duty and a weak attitude by
those named in Section 7 who are charged with the
duty Of ascertaining whether contraventions take place.

It is for that reason I urge that it should be required
of all Local. Authorities that they .do‘mw make the
determination ,of whether in their opinion electric
current is, or can reasonably be made, available in each
slaughterhouse, _ , . ' '

It is not much to ask of persons who feel interested

I: hm; wv—».~» m . . ~-

De'ce‘méeﬁ I 93 6

that they obtain a copy of the Act (twopence' from
His Majesty’s Stationery Ofﬁce, Adastral Honse,
Kingsway, London) and make sure that they under-
stand the implications Of Section I (I) (a) of the Act:
on which Section depends whether pigs have to be
stunned or can be stuck without being stunned.

‘ Yours truly,
38, Earls Avenue, J. S. DOUGLAS.

Folkestone.

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.
OUR DUMB FRIENDS’ LEAGUE.

DEAR SIR,-—May I carry on Miss Margery Wilson’s
letter in the September issue of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND
one stage further. Apart from the value Of propaganda
work in the slum areas, which is being carried out by
the League, and also the suggestion that all cats should
have collars with discs on which are placed their names
and addresses. which is also being done by the League,
I feel that this is only touching the fringe Of the
problem. Namely, amelioration.

I would like to advocate that Miss Wilson and her
friends, and all others who may read this letter, should
approach their local Members of Parliament and obtain
their ideas on a form of licensing‘ for cats, in a similar
manner to that which operates for dogs. This appears
to me the only possible method Of achieving the
eradication Of the evil of stray cats, whose existence is
too miserable to contemplate. Licensing will largely
stop, I feel sure, promiscuous breeding.

Yours faithfully,

E. KEITH ROBINSON,
Seereiary,
72, Victoria Street, Our Dzmzb Frierzdr’ League.

London, SW. 1.

GIN TRAPS.

SIR,—The \Vorsbipful The Mayor of Torquay
(Colonel Rowland W’ard, M.C., CC.) has authorised
me to send you the following copy Of his recent letter
appearing in Torquay papers, and I shall be glad if
you will kindly publish same, as the matter Of steel
traps is of great interest to the public, in view Of the
Bill recently before the House Of Lords to prohibit
their use. ,

“ It is distressing to» read in a recent issue Of your
newspaper that another cat has been trapped in a gin
in a residential part of Torquay and has died of blood
poisoning as a result.

“ These steel traps are unnecessary.

“At Hawkmoor Sanatorium, Of which I am the
chairman, we have practically succeeded in exterminating
rabbits by fumigation with Cymag gas, and are now
able to grow produce and plants in. places where it
was previously impossible. In our opinion Cymag
fumigation is a most satisfactory method Of exterminat-
ing rabbits and rats, and, there is no doubt that the
creatures die painlessly and quickly as stated by the
University Of London Animal W’elfare Society._ I
hope before long the use Of gins :will be prohibited
by law.” ' ' ' V ‘ ‘ .

Yours truly, 7
. C. WENMAN—SMITH,
Afember of tbe Gin Trapi‘ Advisory
Panel of tbe Univerrizfy of London
Animal [Welfare Soe'z'ezj'. ' ’ '
Babbacombe, Torquay. " ' "

440

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

December, 1936

To tbe Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.
DOGS AND RAT WEEK.

DEAR SIR,——Many of your readers will doubtless
take part in the national campaign against rats. May
I appeal to them to use, wherever possible, substances
or devices that are harmless to anything but vermin?

When using proprietary substances it is essential to
follow‘ the makers’ instructions implicitly. Baits con-
taining barium carbonate, phosphorus or strychnine,
which are frequently used, are highly poisonous to
domestic animals. The utmost care should be taken
to prevent their having access to such baits. It is, in
fact, illegal not to take all reasonable precautions.

Yours faithfully,
C. R. JOHNS,
Rational Canine Defence League.

THE 'ANIMALS’ FRIEND

DEAR SIR,~—Meat eaters would have us believe that
there is little or no cruelty attached to their carnivorous
habits. But it is signiﬁcant to ﬁnd in a paper having
no sympathy with THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND an ad—
mittance that cruelty is involved. In the Farmer and"
Stockbreeder, September 22nd, 19 36, in the pages.
devoted to current market prices, is this:

“ Hide: and Skim“.

London—Values of hides and skins are approximately-
as follows: Cattle from gid. per lb. for CASUALTIES.

As the leer! cattle skins are quoted at 7%d., it suggests.
that casualties is the right word for it!

Yours, etc.,
E. G. BARLOW.

Limner, Gravel Lane, Wilmslow.

The Animals9 Friend Sustentation Fund

Donations to the Sustentation Fund are still needed. The Editor acknowledges with
grateful thanks the following sums received up to November 16th :—

Anonymous, £1 IS. od.

C. A. Westacott, Esq., 108. 6d.
Mrs. Mapleton, 55.

Miss E. Barber, 35.

Miss E. M. Garnham, zs.

Mrs. Flaks, and Mrs. Goulding, IS. 6d. each.

Miss F. M. White, 6d.

 

 

 

 

1. Food Reform Diet.

3. Accommodation to include :~—

 

THE NATURE CURE HOSPITAL FUND

A move has at last been made to establish in London, in a district sufficiently accessible to
permit of night calls, a nursing home or small hospital to be run on the following lines :——

2. No sera or animal vaccines to be used.

(a) Well appointed rooms for paying patients.
(b) Wards for patients of limited means.
(c) Free beds for necessitous patients.

4. The home to be supported partly by patients’ fees and partly by public subscription.
5. Treatment to include homoeopathy and all recognised branches of natural therapeutics.

 

The scheme has the approval and support of a group of practitioners who uphold the principles of I
food reform and anti—vivisection and who practise methods of natural healing, also of the Rt..Hon. Sir,
Ralph Paget, Mrs. Hedley Thomson, the Lady Marguerite Strickland, Mlle. Yvonne Arnaud, Miss Nancy
Price, Lady Wild, Lady Veronica Bruce, Mrs. Anna Allinson, and Miss Margaret Morris. 1

Over 75500 in starting donations has been given and promised by a few enthusiasts. ' Will you’en‘ab‘le
the scheme to be realised quiek/y by sending a contribution?

Hen. Treamrerz—MISS N. HOSALI, M.Sc., "

“ SAN MAMETTE,” SUNNINGVALE AVENUE, BIGGIN HILL, KENT.

(Cheques should be made payable to the NATURE CURE HOSPITAL FUND, and crossed
‘ Westminster Bank, Ebury Street Branch.) , . *

 

 

N.B.———THERE IS NO EXISTING INSTITUTION WHICH MEETS THE NEED FORT
' IN-PATIENT TREATMENT ON THE ABOVE LINES. '

 

 

 

 

 

 

441

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND December, 1930

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

S eerés to prohibit the niniseetion of dogs.

Membership Zs. 6d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.1

 

 

 

 

 

International Journal of Animal Protection
Journal International de la Protection des Animaux
Internationale Tierschutz-Zeitung

(Founded 1935.)

The THIRD NUMBER IS NOW PUBLISHED. 9d. post free. 40 pp. 7 pp. illustrations.
Coloured cover. Annual Subscription for I937 (May and November issues) IS. 6d.

LYNDESAY G. LANGWILL,
19 Melville Street, Edinburgh, 3 Hon. Editor.

 

 

 

An Esme/tent Christmas and New Year Gift. ' ."

The Little Animals’ Friend I '

AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE.

Ideal Boarding Establishment Price Iid- POSt fr“:-
Edited by JESSEY WADE.
Near Sea and Downs, generous
di t B d H d C STORIES, PICTURES, COMPETITIONS, ETC.
6' watZr r0025, ﬁres an ' Valuable in Schools and Homes.
Modbmi Terms: Annual Subscription, post free, 15. 6d.
Bound Volumes 1936. Price 1/9 per post
artistic and attrnetiz’e Binding

BRIGHTON & HOVE

 

 

 

Tariﬁ’: MR. & MRS. MASSINGHAM

THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
16 8c 17 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON

80 Mosley Street, Manchester 2.

 

 

 

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

7, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S. W.
President : HAMILTON FYFE

Hon. Treasurer: CANON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.
THE LEAGUE holds that it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for the
purpose of sport—“ pleasure! ” IT CONDEMNS fox—hunting, deer-hunting, otter-hunting and
hare-hunting, also rabbit- and hare-coursing. IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal
of a Drag. IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation.
Annual Subscription 53., includes the Ofﬁcial Journal, CRUEL SPORTS, monthly.

 

 

Secretary: J. C. SHARP.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




December, 1936 THE ANIMALS FRIEND

 

THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY-AND THE LITTLE ANIMALS’ FRIEND SOCIETY

HUMANE EXHIBITION AND BAZAAR

Saturday, 28th November, 1936.
THE MEMORIAL HALL, ALBERT; SQUARE, MANCHESTER.

Friends of Children, Birds and Animals can render Good Service by sending useful gifts and donations.
Please send early and mark name and address clearly.

The Right Training of young people is the best way to overcome Cruelty and Warfare.

President: GEORGE ARLIss, Actor, Author, Film Artist and Humanitarian.

Vice-Presidents: The Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind—af-Hageby, Frances, Countess of Warwick, Miss
Constance E. Andrews, Miss Jessey W’ade, Mlle. Yvonne Arnaud, Sir Hamilton Harry, Dr. Thiselton Mark,
D.Litt., B.Sc., J. L. Paton, M.A., and many other Friends of Children and Animals.

ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Secretary and Lecturer.

 

 

 

The International League Of If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join

 

 

St. Hubert The Cats Protection
This League has been instituted for the cessation The one society devoted solely to the welfare
Of all forms of cruelty, including the slaughter and of cats and kittens
trapping of animals for human consumption and for '
personal adornment. And for the purpose of bringing . . =
before all nations the realisation of the callous taking MEMBERSHIP 5/ PER ANNUM’
of innocent life for sport and as a ﬁnancial proposition. including the Society’s ofﬁcial organ,
MEMBERS INVITED “ THE C AT :9
All information from :—
" Th 0 ' ' S t - - ,
3 e rgamslng ecre my, Wme for Free Literature toz—The Secretary, 29,
‘ ‘ 137, Church Street, Kensington, London, W.8 l Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I

Chairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD
Subscription, 23. 6d. Members subscribing 53. receive all publications.
New Publications:

SHOOTING FOR SPORT
By PHYLLIS CLODD

FASHION-INFECTED SPORT
By LLEWELYN POWYS .

 

 

INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE TO PREVENT

THE EXPORT. OF HORSES FOR BUT CHERY

{INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE FOR HORSES), 4 BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I
Cbairrnan of Council :fGEOFFREY HCGILBEY, M.C. Hon. Treasurer: H. E. BROWN
Hon. Director: BRIG.-GENERAL SIR GEORGE COOKERILL, C.B. Secretary: MIss S. BAUM

MISS COLE’S GOOD WORK
MUST GO ON

Please enquire of the Society for full particulars and how you can help to prevent
the export of British horses for butchery abroad.

 

 

 

 

All subscriptions and communications for tbe Magazine should be addressed, “ Tire, Editor, ANIMALs’ FRIEND,
I Feat/Jerstone Buildings, Higb Holborn, London, IV. C .I

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE SCOTTISH

TAIL-WAGGERS’ CLUB

Prerz'dem‘ :
THE COUNTEss OF HADDINGTON.

Seem/M791 :
“ MAC,” c/o Miss N. Ivory, Io, Queensferry Street, Edinburgh.

An Open Letter to the Dogs of Scotland

DEAR SANDY, SHEILA, RUARI, GYP, MICHAEL, PURL, TORQUIL,
ROGUEY, GRAHAM, MORAG, KELPIE, SUSANNAH MACGREGOR,

AND THE REST OF YOU.

I write to let you know that some of us dogs have been getting together to
discuss the Vivisection question—that horror of horrors which is disgracing the
whole world at the present time.

Our Conference was a marked success; the tail—wagging fraternity being

‘ up in arms ” at the long—continued and scandalous ill—treatment of the whole
Animal Kingdom.

C

AccordinOl 7 we have formed ourselves into “ THE SCOTTISH TAIL—WAGGERS’
, . b l) . . . . . , . .
CLUB.” Obiect: “ Abolition of Vivisection.’ Our Motto is: “ Down With
Vivisection! ”

I was unanimously appointed Secretary to the Club, and we have all
resolved to Tail—wag Scotland into the abolition of the horrible thing, using
Barks——Loud Barks! and even Growls where necessary to attain our object.
The Countess of Haddington, a real lover of dogs, has graciously consented
to act as our President.

 

So now, all that remains is for you——dogs of Scotland—to join us in a body.

The subscription for membership is only as. For this you will each receive
a Certiﬁcate, with your name, registration number, etc., and an attractive Medallion
to hang on your collars ; on one side of this is my head, and on the other our motto
and the Edinburgh and Glasgow addresses of the ofﬁces of the Scottish Society for
the Prevention of Vivisection, under whose auspices the SCOTTISH TAIL-WAGGERS’
CLUB has been started. Join in your Thousands I Vivisection is Doomed I
Scotland for Ever! Yours in the cause, “ MAC ” (to whom all communications
should be addressed), Secretary, The Scottish Tail—Waggers’ Club, c/o Miss N.

Ivory.

Oﬂz'ees: Edinburgh—Io, Queensferry Street.
Glasgow—I47, Bath Street.

December, I 93 6

 

 

Printed in “Great Britain by The Surrey Fine Art Press. Cavendish Road. Redhill, Surrey, for the
National Council for Animals' Welfare. 1 Fearhersrone Buildings, High Holborn, London, W.C.1.

 




