~ n2

,1' n a ‘x.
r“ r . I r -,
' J 2'", r" J.)
K". k i I “J- (J ,
/‘l
/; j
i
l
1‘ i, I p (0 ~ 1“ 0' . :47 "7 , _..
n o '
i {"1- I hi. .
4 ~‘ ,~
1 .
l
1
i

- ”w I " f; i

., F \ V. ,j» -i,....-.i~_r~ “ p ”b:
.. .. .a WIiENTITY ,r. ,. ’
i erreriroom

1M3,“ “‘1 at? very anxious it should not be thought that the subject of
this paper is of merely departmental interest. What I have ‘

to say is not addressed to those who are interested in any
particular science, such as logic, deﬁnition, or psychology, but i

to all who are interested in the question what the world is. It

appears to me that if what I shall say be true, most of those

theories about the nature of the world, which are of the most

general interest and which attract the most disciples for the

 

various schools of philosophy, must be either false or purely i
chimerical. It is not, indeed, my object to show that these ;
important consequences follow ; it is possible that they do not, i

and I have not space to argue that they do. But I wish it
.. ‘ i- should not he assumed: that they do not. My own view is
that, whether what I say be true or false, it is certainly very
important, and that is my main reason for raising the question
of its truth. What I most fear, then, is not that it should be
proved to be false, but that it should he admitted true without
enquiry, on the ground that, though true, it is unimportant. I
fear that many of the doctrines I shall put forward Will appear
to be mere platitudes. They, or others very like them, are, I
think, constantly so regarded; and yet those, who thus admit
their truth, are not thereby prevented from holding other i
doctrines, on questions of far greater intrinsical importance,
which ﬂatly contradict these truths they admit and despise.
That such a state of things is possible will scarcely be denied.
For my own part I am convinced that the characteristic

 

 

 

 

F‘ﬂm41"?ﬁ‘m.

doctrines of most philosophers, no less where they agree than
where they differ, are chieﬂy due to their failure to trace
the consequences of admitted principles. To remember the

16?

.WJJL n: MeVI-rr‘w-u‘ «w»» w .- ...,,, -- -:

 




10-1 G.‘ E; \Iooii E
[Witt

A possibility that this may be so with the principles of identity,

may, I hope, lend some interest to my discussion of the subject.

'5 I will give an instance of the kind of purpose which I
hope the discussion may serve. Considerable use is made
now-a-days by a certain school of philosophical writers of the
phrases “identity in difference ” and “ unity in difference.” I
do not know whether $3,319va the two phrases are used in the
same or in different senses; but certainly they are Masai
as if they were equivalent. The same is true, I think, of
another pair of phrases, which are also much used by the same
writerséﬁnamely, “ individual " and “organic unity.” Further,
this second pair is, I believe, supposed to be connected with the
ﬁrst, in such a way, that if you know a thing to be an “indi?
vidual ” or “organic unity,” you can always infer that it exhibits
both “identity in difference ” and “ unity in difference”; and I
should be very much surprised if, on examination, it did not
also prove that the converse inference was very frequently
made. Now I do not know that many people would regard
the knowledge that they were “individuals ” or that the world
was an “ organic unity ” as having much importance in itself:
although I think the phrases are vaguely impressive and convey
the notion that anything to which they are applied must be of
worth. But a very great derivative importance they certainly
have; since the writers who use them draw conclusions by their
means, which no one can regard with indifference.

;' Yet, what is meant by these phrases? In a sense it would
seem plain that any complex thing whatever exhibits identity
in difference, since it has at least two different predicates and
yet is one and the same thing. But it is plain that no inferences
of importance can be drawn from this fact, since the possession
of complexity is compatible with almost every difference of
quality We can think of. “ Identity in difference ” must, there?
fore, if it is to yield us valuable information, mean something
other than mere complexity; and, as I shall show, there seem
to be a great many other things it might «mean. The phrase is

n’

 

I" vnf,
- W’s-i
'«u

3
l
I.

 

, , it
i ,
{08/

 




WE \TI'PY 510 5

therefore ambiguous; and, though it is certain that many
correct inferences can be drawn by means of ambiguous words,
even where their special sense is not deﬁned, it is no less certain
that the gravest errors may be incurred by arguing that what
is true of a thing to which such a word applies in one sense, is
also true of' that to which it applies in another. A philosopher
certainly, although nothing can replace for him the power of
recognising that the truths he handles are different, where they
are so, and though this is perhaps his most valuable gift, cannot
safely trust to that power alone if he wishes to go far, but must
employ the additional safeguard of attempting to discover and
fix in his mind the points wherein they differ. To a certain
extent he may be helped in this task by the work of others,
and to supply as much of this help as I am able, by dis:
criminating the points of difference between truths which we
express and must continue to express by the use of the word
identity, is the object of this paper.

l The first point to which I would call attention with regard
to truths in which we assert identity is a very obvious one?)
It is that we may assert of' two things that they have the same
predicate, and yet are different from one another. Thus it is
true that my coat is. black, and also true that my waistcoat is
black; and yet it is not true that my coat is the same as my
waistcoat. This state of things does not at first sight appear to
present any difficulty. It seems obvious enough that the two
garments, though they have one predicate in common, yet have
each of them at least one other which is not shared by its
fellow. And this, it may be said, is why they can have the
same predicate: they have not a complete identity of content.
But to say this is to imply a philosophical proposition of the
very last importance, and one upon which there has never yet
been agreement. It is to say that there cannot possibly 1362:er
things exactly alike. Ilf- the reason why my two coats are
different is that they have different predicates, then, supposing
all their predicates were the same, asktheir colour is, they ~11»

 

 




1 06»er ‘ a ;.QG,,{1¢..E;A,MRE.Avi ‘

would not be two, but only one. But is it absolutely certain
that there cannot be two things exactly alike? Put in this
abstract form, it does not seem certain. If so—éﬂf there may be
things exactly alike, which yet are two, why should not this
be the case with the blackness also 2’ Why should the blackness
of both be one and the same, and not that of each a single
blackness exactly like the other? There is, in fact, a real
difﬁculty of deciding whether, in the case where two things
have the same predicate, the predicates are two or only one.
There is this real difﬁculty underlying the question which
arises in Plate with regard to his “ideas,” whenever he says
that they are 11:15 things or that things are copies of them. Can
one and the same thing be in two places at once, or must there
be two ? The copy certainly is diﬁ'erent both from the thing
copied and from any other copy of the same. With regard to
the third form in which he raises a difﬁculty—where, namely,
he says that things partake of the idea—the difﬁculty is the
same, if by “ partake ” he meant “ have it as well as other
qualities.” But it is entirely different if by “pa1take”be
meant “ have part of the idea.”

'7' i What the above discussion is designed to bring out is that,
even when we assert truly that two things have the same or
a common predicate, there is a serious difﬁculty in deciding
exactly what it is that is true. Our ﬁrst suggestion was that
the predicate of each was in no sense different from that of the
other, and that the two things differed from one another only in
the sense that they had different predicates. We may label this
view as that which holds that no difference except Mug!“
difference is involved in two things having the same predicate.
On this view when you say there are two things, you mean that
they diife1 conceptually only,i A, it is impossible that the
diﬁerence implied in duality should be other than conceptual
diﬂ'erence. It follows that to talk of two things exactly alike,
or with no conceptual difference, is to talk sheer nonsense— I“

{WW
mere words. But so extreme a judgment seems open to gaff

‘0

 




i . mnmrrv '1 1W

5 suspicion. Even if there are no two things exactly alike, it

seems far from self-evident that there could not be. It was

i then suggested that there may be; and this view I propose to
label as that which holds that beside conceptual difference
there is also involved in two things having the same predicate,
another kind which may be called ﬂaggggtgal‘ difference. But if
we thus admit a separate kind of difference, compatible with
the absence of conceptual difference, it is plain that this kind
of difference may separate from one another not only the things,
which we have said possess a common predicate, but also the 5‘

predicates of each which we have hitherto said to he one and

i the same predicate. And hence our ﬁrst view may be wrong ,
not only in asserting that the tWo things differ from one another 'E '7
in one sense only, but also in asserting that the predicate of the I
one is in no sense different from that of the other. What really ;
is the truth about this matter? i
' And, ﬁrst: Is there such a thing as nagwgal difference, CL, ‘
different kind of difference from conceptgtaf difference? PhllO; "
sophers have commonly enough spoken as if there were. Even I 1
if it be asserted that two things which differ in the one way ‘
always also differ in the other, this is to assert that there are
both kinds of difference. Thus, in so far as Leibniz deduces
his principle of the Identity of Indiscernibles from the Law of
Sufﬁcient Reason, he is admitting that numerical and con-T
ceptual difference are different things. That any two things
should differ numerically without also differing conceptually . _
cannot be a self-contradictory proposition, if it requires the Law 2 ‘
of Sufﬁcient Reason to prove it; and hence Leibniz is guilty of
inconsistency, when he remarks that to suppose two things
indiscernible is to suppose the same thing under different
namesi/1 Our question is, which of these two viewsis the right :73“ l \

 

 

4

’. " if 59' '. / 2 ',_t;.-;.-1z¢3:7-——
it i K Mg)" 4'???“ mlzl‘his point does not appear to have been noticed by Mr. Russell in

 

 

 

b? L
, is:
i J; ,1 his intricate discussion of Leibniz’s principle (PhdgaofﬁL, pp. 547,756). f4;
8!“ (a. u ‘a‘. if 3 E If Leibniz is to be held to this remark, his doctrine is indistinguishable r3?
r“. g from that which Mr. Russell attributes to Mr. Bradley. In any case, the \ A” is; '

{4- vs» & , “ xix?“ a;

. s _ if H

. ’ , '.' k
k A ' p311?“ ‘ a h

 




\a

,a

W"

1 08-" e. a wnoone...,,..-..

one? Let us suppose that there is no such thing as numerical
difference. In that case, when two things have the same
predicate, the only difference between them consists in the.
difference between two different predicates, one of which belongs
to one and the other to the other. But what are the HEM? to
which these different predicates belong? We predicate of the
things both a common predicate, and a different predicate of
each. Either then we must say that the things are the
different predicates, and that it is to those that the common
predicate belongs; or else we must say that the things are
another pair of different predicates, to each of which one of the
ﬁrst pair and to both of which the common predicate belongs.
But. in either case the common predicate belongs to or is
predicated of that which is different in each of the things.
And when we say it has this relation of belonging or predication
to each of two different things, we certainly may mean that
it has the same relation to each of them. Accordingly our two
must each be analysed into: (1) point of difference; (2) relation
of predication; (3) common point; of which (2) and (3) are
absolutely identical in each. But, if this is so, the things turn
out to ”95;, merely their points of difference. Of the group (1)
(2) (3), which is what we originally supposed to constitute a
thing, nothing can be true except that they are three. We
cannot say of (g) (2) (3), which is what we originally called the
one thing, that it. is different from the other (b) (2) (3). It is
only (gr) and (b) which differ from one another and are two.

In fact our original supposition was that (3) could only be
predicated of (Q) and (12), not of anything else. And if this

fact that he made it proves that he was not always clear as to the meaning
of his principle. And the same conclusion follows from the fact that, if
he allows numerical difference to differ from conceptual difference, be is
also bound, in consistency with another application of the Law of Sufficient

' Reason, to hold that the world does not exist (2:11., p. 57), since there must

for each thing in it be something ggqgcgi'aqblg differing from that thing

numerically only. h

 




;IDE*NTITY“ 109 l,

supposition holds it is plain that anything else which we might
try to predicate of the group, as such, would turn out to be
predicated only of (a) and (12). We can never by any possi—f“
bility get a number of predicates to combine in forming a new
thing, of which, as a whole, anything can be predicated. We
must start, on this theory, with two points of Lliﬁ'erenceﬁtwo
simple predicates having conceptual difference from one another ;
this is essential to there being two things-at all. And then we
may try to form new things, also differing from one another, by
ﬁnding predicates of these points of difference. But whatever
we ﬁnd and however many we add, we still leave the points of
difference as they were%:the only things of which duality can
really be predicated. For anything we predicate of them, and
the relation of predication itself, may always both belong to
some other point of diﬂerence, so that every property by which
we may try to distinguish our new thing from the old, will
merely identify part of the new thing with something else,
without producing any whole, which, as a whole, differs from
everything else in the world, in the way in which our original
points of difference differ from one another.- We can never
say, “This red differs from that red, in virtue of having a
different position”; or “in virtue of having a different spatial
relation to this other thing”; or “ as being the one I think of
now, whereas that was the one I thought of then.” The posi:
tions differ, the spatial relations diﬂ'er,.my thinking now differs
from my thinking then; but it is always the some red which is
at both positions, and is thought of at both times. And whenever
we attempt to say anything of the red at this position, as, for
instance, that it was surrounded by yellow, or that it led me to
think of a soldier’s coat, exactly the same must be true of the
red at that position, which was surrounded by blueor led me
to think of a house on ﬁre. We are unable to distinguish the
two except by their relation to other things, and by whatever
relations we attempt so to distinguish them we always ﬁnd we
have not succeeded. We can never say‘“ The red I mean is '-

 

 

 

 




HO" G E MOORE: "

the one surrounded by yellow, and not the one surrounded by
blue.” For the one surrounded by yellow is also surrounded
by blue: they are not two but one, and whatever is true of
that which is surrounded by yellow is also true of that which is
surrounded by blue.

I?" i All this I regard as a galactic ad, absurdum of the theory
that there is no difference but conceptual difference. If any
one can avoid assuming that something may be true of a quality
at one position, which is not true’ of the same quality at
another position, then he will be entitled to assert that all
difference is conceptual difference. But this will at all events
not be possible for those who hold that things conceptually
the same may be distinguished by their relations to other
things. If any one asserts or implies that a difference between
this and that can be established by the fact that this is related
to one thing whereas that is related to something different, he
cannot without contradiction deny numerical difference. For
this and that cannot have different relations, unless the relation
possessed by the one is not possessed by the other. Unless,
therefore, the one has a difference from the other over and
above the difference of relations, it will be true of one and
the same thing that it both has and has not a given relation
to something else. And for the same reason it is equally
impossible to assert that it is only the whole, this thing in that
relation, which differs from the Whole, the same thing in this
other relation. For unless this which we call the same thing
is in some sense two things, it has {39% relations, and everything
which is true of the thing with the one relation will also be true
of the thing with the other. It cannot be true that the whole
formed of the thing in one relation is different from the whole
formed of it in the other, unless the thing itself is different;
although that it should have the one relation might be a

’ different truth from its having the other.

53’ i I conclude then that there is such a thing as numerical
difference, different from conceptual difference. And since in C:

 

 

 




120

warm 111

this result has been obtained by pointing out truths in which
a thing conceptually the same is said both to have and not to
have a given relation to something else, we have also answered
a second question, and have shown that there not only may be
but are things exactly similar; and further, since the things,
which turned out to be so, were instances of what we originally
took to be a common predicate of two different things, it is also
plain that a common predicate, in its application to one thing, .
may differ numerically from the same predicate in its application i
to another. We have therefore refuted the principle of the
Identity of Indiscernibles in both the forms which Leibniz
failed to distinguish. We have found both (1) that Identity
is not conceptually identical with Indiscernibility; there is a
difference not only in name but in fact; and (2) that things
which are indiscernible are not always identical. On the other
hand, we have accepted the principle frequently implied in
Plato that the idea in a thing may be different from the idea
in itself; and we have still to see whether there is any insur:
mountable objection to this View. p i
i The view we have accepted is that in some cases where two
things are truly said to have a common predicate, there exists
in each a predicate exactly similar to that which exists in the
other, but not numerically identical with it. And I confess
I see no objections to this view, except what seem to rest on
a bare denial of the difference between conceptual and numerical
difference. These two exactly similar things are,.I may be told,
identical in content: exact similarity means identity in content.
I admit that they are so. In that case, my adversary may
retort, they are the same thing; there is no difference between
them; they are not two but one. But this is merely to beg 1
the point at issue. What I have urged is that many of our 2“
judgments plainly imply that there may be {132‘ things, things
having a kind of difference which I call numerical, which yet
have not another kind of difference which I call conceptual.
And I explain the phrase, identity of cont'éht, as applying only [1.117

"171.

 

 

 

 

" .1'.“1"..& i'ir‘ii .7! 1’ 11 I ﬁx .I
I .r

y'vﬂ’t? '.‘..
HINT. ff- .Wlfﬂﬂtw FZ‘M-VH Pv‘WYVV" V n

. gunman. .‘h’h -f‘£'.'.’."
"m"

-J’.

 

w

 




to two such things, which have no conceptual difference. The
two things, are, I admit, in one sense the same; but that they
are not therefore also are and the same is just what I have
tried to show.

Or, again, it may be urged :%=EDoes not this identity of
content between the things consist in their both having the
same piedicate-gﬁ common element ? But, if so, then, on your
View, this common predicate would itself be two ; and these two
predicates would again need a common element to explain their
identity of content, which would again be two, and so on
‘qglghjinﬁnfitmn. So that, if you once admit a single pair of
exactly similar things, for each pair thus admitted you have
to admit an infinite number of other pairs. And (it may be
added) if this is not absurd enough, each pair will be entirely
indistinguishable from all the others, so that you will not even
be able to distinguish your ﬁrst pair as your ﬁrst, from those
which it implies. To such an objection I should answer:
(1) That the pairs will not on my view he indistinguishable.
Each member will differ "nitgngrjz’ggalﬂl‘g from all the rest, and
where this is the case any two, of an infinite number, may
be distinguished as this and that, since it is the very meaning
of numerical difference that things which have it are thus
different and need not be mistaken for one another. And
(2) if this is the case, I see no absurdity in the inﬁnite regress.
There may, for all I know, he an infinite number of exactly
similar things; but if we can distinguish what is true of
any one, from what is true of any of the rest, I see nothing
to refute me in the suggestion. It is at all events true,
that, if there is not an infinite number of exactly similar
things, there is an inﬁnite number of conceptually different
ones. So that, even, if the admission of an infinite implies,
as some hold, a contradiction, this fact cannot be urged in
favour of conceptual as against numerical difference. But
(3) even if the last two objections were unanswerable, they
do not touch my theory. For I do not hold that in 532933!” [H33

K

,

H‘o

 




. 122

i . est-.11). EN'Plv‘P’t". ﬁljlﬁszas

case, where a common predicate is truly asserted, the predicates
I are two. I found myself forced to maintain that in some
cases they were so. But it seems to me that, as a matter
of fact, wherever two predicates are exactly similar, their

relation to that which is the same in each of them, is quite
different from the relation of each to that of which it is the {l
predicate. That there may be said to be in each an identical ,L
element I admit. But this identical element appears to me

to he not only the same, but also gnawand the same. Nor,
in default of further objections, do I see any reason for thinking
that it cannot be so.

4'”. But, lastly, it may be said: If in the case of two exactly
similar things there is always also a third thing, as you have
just admitted, which is 1,021.6. Quit/’4 same and different from
either, must there not also be a fourth related to the ﬁrst and
third, as the third is related to the ﬁrst and second; and a ﬁfth :
related to the second and third in the same way, and so on ' ‘
ad ...§7P[2ﬂ'7fi¢?“?ﬂ In other words, if, as Plato would say, the
”similarity between two particulars is to be explained by the 4
similarity of both to one and the same idea, must not the
same explanation be given of the similarity of each to this
idea? To this objection again I should reply, in the ﬁrst
place, that a mere inﬁnity of numerically identical things
does not appear to me to be impossible. But if, as seems
to be implied in the second form of words, the objection is
not to this inﬁnity but to a deﬁnition of exact similarity
which consists in saying that two things are exactly similar
to one another when each is exactly similar to a third thing, :9
then I admit that such a deﬁnition is invalid. Certainly if a
the relation of the idea to each of its particulars were exactly
the same as their relation to one another, we could not deﬁne
their relation to one another by means of their relation to
it. We should have to admit that exact similarity was an at
unanalysable relation, and that ideas, even though there might
be inﬁnite numbers of them, were superﬂuous hypotheses so 1“

. ~ 3—h-

 

 

LTL,,....¢..

 

‘f'lm'

751173.: I

.zvgzrat' r:

 

g
E
f?
L,
l."
i:
,
:5

“1—14 "vain-v

   




114 i _ (3“,1“,Ehw‘x‘M‘QQ'RiEﬁmkxmwa) “5.”?

far as it was concerned, and could not be inferred from its
reality. And this objection does not, as did the last, fail
altogether to touch my theory; for I did intend to dgﬁne_
the relation of exact similarity between two things as involving
relation to a third thing, and not merely to make the
gratuitous and irrelevant assertion that, whenever two things
are exactly similar, there is also such a third thing. To meet
this objection, then, I must assert, what has not been made
plain hitherto, that the relation between the idea and its
particular is 13!"); the same as that of one particular to
the other: that the idea is not exactly similar to its
particular. And this assertion does, I admit, seem strange
at ﬁrst sight. ‘ If they are not exactly similar, what, it
may be asked, is the difference between them ? We grant you
they have numerical difference, but you yourself admit that
they have no conceptual difference, and what more than this can
be meant by exact similarity? My answer is that something
more than this 3.9; meant by exact similarity, namely, the fact
that each of the things said so to be has a peculiar relation to
‘ a. third thing, numerically but not conceptually different from
them, which they have not to one another. This third thing is
the Platonic idea, or, as we may now call it, the universal.
And this third thing is not exactly similar to either of the
particulars, just because there is no fourth thing to which it
has the relation which they have to it. To this view of the
case I can discover no further objection. It is true it would be
desirable to have some single term to express the fact that
the universal differs numerically from the particular, without
differing conceptually from it, although it has not that further
relation to which I have just conﬁned the term exact
similarity. The term exact similarity might, indeed, be used
for this purpose. But then it would be necessary to have
another term to express the additional fact that each particular
is also related to the other through the universal; and since the _‘
relation of particular to particular is prob‘ably far more often \i‘zﬁj

 

 

 




wnwn‘v 115

spoken of under this name, and is also far more often an object
of discussion, it seems desirable to employ the familiar term
with this complex meaning. How any term is to be used is
not, however, the question in which I am mainly interested at
present. The point upon which I am concerned to insist is
that the relation of a particular to its universal .is, in fact,
different from that of a particular to a particular, which would
commonly be said to be exactly similar to it, although of both
pairs it is true that they differ numerically- without differing
conceptually. This point appears to me necessary if we once
admit, as I have tried to show we must, that things do differ
numerically without differing conceptually. For this theory
threatened to obliterate the distinction between particulars
and universals, since it deniedthat any distinction could be
found in the fact that the particular was the universal in
relation to some other or others conceptually different from
it. Whereas it seems impossible to deny that universals do
differfrom particulars, since different things are true of them:
as, for instance, that particulars certainly exist, while it is at
least doubtful whether any universals do; and that universals
may be predicated of particulars, while particulars cannot be
predicated of universals nor yet of one another. Thus it
seems certain that this red and that red do exist, but very
doubtful whether redness itself does. And equally certain
that this red is red; whereas undoubtedly red itself is not
this red, nor this red that red. I can thus claim for my
theory, that it partially unites the views of those who insist
on the reality of self-identical universals, but feel themselves
therefore bound to deny any difference but difference of content,
with the views of those who maintain exact similarity of par?
ticulars, but feel inclined to deny that‘any-identity, save that
of each particular with itself, is involved in this.

2 The admission of numerical diﬁ'erence seems, then, to be
necessary; and we have failed to ﬁnd any fatal objections
to it. It has, however, become plain that several important ‘1“. LI;

~H’2”

a.

 

 

 

 




twrlktaw' ‘ mm "’1“; 5

116‘ “"G’f"‘*"t?‘f’“’f’foous.

consequences, not generally recognised, follow from its admis?
sion; and it will now be well to sum these up.

61 3 First, then, any two things of which one has a relation which
the other has not, or of one of which something is true which
is not true of the other, are numerically different from one
another. But all such pairs of things are divided into two
classes, according as the pair in question also have another differ?
ence called conceptual difference or have not. It is impossible
to escape the conclusion that one and the same pair may have
both kinds of difference. For if it be said that by their con?
ceptual difference is merely meant that a conceptually different
universal is related to each; then each may indeed differ
numerically only from the other, but must differ conceptually
from the universal to which it is related. But this universal
has to it a relation which it has not to the other. Accordingly
by deﬁnition the universal is numerically different from it 3 and
since it is also conceptually different, we have one and the
same pair possessing both kinds of difference. To proceed;
Any two universals have both numerical and conceptual
difference from one another. But every particular has some
one universal from which it diffeis numerically only. To this
universal it also has a peculiar nameless relation, which the
universal has not to it, and which it has not to any other par?
ticular. All particulars which have this relation to the same-
universal differ from one another numerically only; but they
differ conceptually also from any particular which has this
relation to a different universal. This nameless relation which
each particular has to one, and only one, universal, is not the
same as the relation of a member of a class to its class-concept;
since the member of a class may differ conceptually from its
class-concept, and since also two universals may both belong to!
the same class. But, it may be said, what is the difference
between a particular and a universal, since they do not neces?‘
sarily differ conceptually? The difference is that they belong
to different classes : the class-concept “ universal ” differs from. "1} \. 33

ﬂ

_
\7’0

 




* 128

, IDENTITY; 11.7. .

the class-concept “ particular.” And the classes may be deﬁned
as follows: Anything is a particular which has to some other
things, differing from it numerically only, the peculiar nameless
relation above mentioned. Anything is a universal which has
this relation to nothing else at all. Thus there may be
universals having only one particular, or having no particulars
whatsoever: but every particular must have a universal. The
name “ universal ” must not therefore be understood to imply ..
particulars, but only to note the fact, that if there be more than
two things differing from one another numerically only, there i
is one among them having a relation to all, the rest, whiCh none
of the rest have to it or to one another. A class-concept, on
the other hand, does imply at least one inﬂate? conceptually a 3
different from it; and if there are more, it has to all a relation i i
which none of them have to it or to one another. It is, more?“ ‘
over, always also a universal, but may have no particulars. 3
Great care is therefore needed in distinguishing the different '
relations it may have to different things in either character.

“’5’" We are now in a position to say something with regard to
- the meaning of identity. With regard to assertions of identity
in general, it seems plain that they may take two different ,
forms. We may either assert that this is identical with that,
or that this is identical with itself. The latter form is that 5
used in the logical “Law of Identity,” A is A; everything is ;
identical with itself. Of this law Hegel complains in one . i e
placeié’that those who assert it also assert its “opposite,” and 3
immediately afterwards, that utterances in accordance with it
“ deserve ” to be “ reputed silly.” I cannot take upon myself

to decide whether or not he regards these charges as the same,

and whether or not he means by opposite “contradictory.”

The instances he gives (“A planet isfF-a planet; Magnetism ,.
isF—magnetism ; Mind isi—mind ”) seem to be justly accused of l-
silliness. But are they untrue? I do not know that either he _ ,, i:

 

u "nu. pr“
, .1 ,

 

 

 

 

‘Hv.

 

l
i. ii ’?.!.‘T’ :1 ' 'i .. \ i (i L, r'
f". ‘ ~_. K, g 5-, ‘. . I ' r5- ‘ - ’j" ‘2': ., - _.
“Nil“ ’ ll 137M . m i§115,W811&°8’8 Thus,p.214.f 3‘"?- i l; at .. .. x“... ,
i I ' “*8 it \..~‘ / ’H \f"ln
i

\,_ g“:
. . '9; '3
t l '7" I“
‘\ r' i ‘i ”'n .
Maven“

' - mu... A “
" “VT-‘3'” w?" 'rmnvvﬂk-pm Am... .

 

,
4
.1
4
Z
‘ \d x
‘1
. 7' L77
'1 I“ .

 




 

 

 

 

 

all, , 8» smokes

or any of his disciples have maintained that Mind is not mind,
although they may have maintained that Matter is not matter.
It would seem, then, that some even of these silly instances
have contradictories, which are false; and that when Hegel
tells us that in asserting the Law of Identity we also assert
its opposite, he only means that we must assert something else
of Mind as well as the fact that it is Mind; not that we
may assert it is not Mind. Accordingly, his ﬁrst complaint
would seem to amount to no more than a comment on the
ambiguity of the copula, pointing out that many different
things may in different senses be predicated of one and the
same thing ; a comment which is very true, and would be very
useful if those who made it, or those who heard it, could be
induced thereby to remember it in practice.

'5 But there still seems room to ask why these remarks are
silly if they are true. Ilthink, in the ﬁrst place, it is because
the same word happens to be used in subject and predicate.
It is true, as Hegel himself remarks, that the propositional
form always “promises a distinction between subject and
predicate,” and if a distinction is meant, it usually seems silly
to use the same symbol for what is meant to be distinguished.
Cases are rare in which the double meaning of a symbol is so
well understood that we can calculate upon a distinction being
perceived in spite of our using the same symbol. We cannot
enunciate all truths in the form of puns; and, even if we could,
we could not expect the joke to be appreciated in all companies.
“A bull is a bull ” might conceivably be the best way of
expressing a judgment of the relation between such very
different things as an animal and an Irish form of wit; but
the difference must be very obvious, or we shall have to explain
our joke. Hegel is, therefore, unfair to the Law of Identity in
his choice of symbols to express its instances. Supposing we
say, “Mind is something of which propositions are true which
are not true of anything else whatever,” it is by no means

obvious that the utterance is silly, although our meaning might 7; i ‘5

w"

is

 




Minililixh #1”;in

. x'\
be exactly the same as we should express under other eircumf

stances by saying, “Mind is mind.” But what is our meaning
when we use such expressions? I have assumed that there
must be some distinction which we are trying to express; but
it is obvious, from the fact that we are ever tempted to express
it by“ Mind is mind," that it is a distinction which is somewhat
difﬁcult to catch. When we say, “This is identical with itself,"
the truth of which we are thinking seems to belong to the class
of truths of which the general form is,“ This is identical with
that,” and it seems as if in all such cases “ this ” and“ that "
must have some difference from one another, and therefore that,
in this case, the thing must be different from itself in order to
be identical. This, I believe, is the conclusion to which Hegel
wishes to drive us; and yet it is undoubtedly this which the
Law of Identity wishes to deny. We must, therefore, ﬁnd a
point of difference between what we mean by “ This is identical
with itself,” and what we mean by “This is identical with that,”
if we are to hold that any instance of our Law does not imply
its own contradictory; and yet we must maintain that any such
instance asserts a relation between two different things, if
we are to hold that it is not pure nonsense and can have a.
contradictory.

 

 

 

’3‘ .i Such a point of difference may be found, in the ﬁrst place,

in the fact that when we say, “Mind is self-identical,” we
are asserting something of it which is also true of everything
else; whereas when we say, “Matter is identical with mind,”
we are asserting something of a pair of things, which is not true
of every other pair. In short our Law is: “ Everything is self:
identical” ; it is not “Everything is identical with something
else." It would thus seem, at ﬁrst sight, that “ Mind is mind ”
is as far as possible from beingsan instance of our Law, or an. .
“utterance in accordance with it,” since it appears to be an
attempt to assert of mind something which is true of nothing
. else,,whereas, by the very terms of the law, any instance of it

must assert of something a predicate which is also true of
' '6

 

I: mtzm‘. ”'1" T7 -':J!'.’TJT"’ 7372‘?) ”-3111‘ - § ly'l
:- ,

 

"‘ .'.‘.)’-¢2‘

 




I w...‘
I.

new a . ENMGGR‘E.“

everything else. The Law of Identity asserts of everything
that it belongs to a certain class: let us say, the class of
subjects. An insttnce of the law would then be: “Mind is
a subject." But, then, so are “matter” and hosts of other
things. Yet we do not mean to assert that it is just like
these: we feel that our assertion was meant to be unique.
We want to say not only that it is a subject like other
things, but gchie/L subject it is; and we are familiar with
only one method of speciﬁcationfythat which asserts of
a given particular the universal to which it is related.

When we say, vaguely enough, but with a very deﬁnite

meaning, “This exists,” and we are asked “Which this do
you mean ?” the answer “ The this which is red ” generally
proves satisfactory: we have succeeded in specifying a pornt
wherein it differs from most other things. But when the
“this” of which we are speaking is “This red ” or is the
universal itself, this method is no longer open to us. We
cannot specify any point in which it differs from other things,
because it is itself a mere point of difference. We can say of
it, it is a subject, a point of (.lill'erence: and we are sure that
this is unambiguous. But if any one asks, “ Edict/asubject is it ? ”
we can only reply, “ The subject which it is,” although we have
thereby added nothing to our meaning. This, I take it, is how
we come to say “Mind is mind.” We fancy that the unique?
ness of a thing ought in every case to be capable of being
expressed in some predicate, because this method proves
successful in most ordinary cases. But the fact is that every
predicate we can assign does also belong to some other thing,
though not in general to all or most; and that the only thing
which gives absolute uniqueness to any proposition is the subject.
Any proposition will differ from some other in respect both of
its subject and its predicate; but it can differ from all others
only in respect of its subject.

i If then we take our meaning, when we say “ Mind is mind,”

to be that“ Mind is a subject,” is it still silly .3” Certainly this {a u '

 




particular case of the Law of Identity may be thought so ; and
so, under certain circumstances, may any other: for the facts
they enunciate are often obvious to every one. But the Law
itself does not therefore lose its importance. For it asserts
that this is true of everything ; whereas every philosopher who
holds that Appearance differs from Reality must assert that
some things are mere predicates.

i The first meaning, then, which we can give to an assertion
of Identity, is that the assertion that a thing is identical with
itself is equivalent to the assertion that it is a subject. Identity
is not here a relation between two things, nor does it imply any
difference. The assertion that such and such a thing is a
subject has been common enough in philosophy, and therefore
might seem to need no explanation. Moreover, the notion
“subject” is itself a subject, and therefore undeﬁnable. I may,
however, attempt to convey a notion of its meaning by
specifying its relations, and by recalling the terms which
have been used for it. To begin with the latter: It is, in
the first place, much what Spinoza meant by Substance; and

A his “Attribute,” too, is much what I mean by predicate It is
much what is commonly meant by “Individual,” and it is
what Mr. Bradley and others have called a “This.” Now
what is intended to be conveyed by predicating any of these
terms of a thi11g%by saying that so and so is 9. Substance
or a Subject, or an Individual, or a “ This "Tappears to be
mainly that the thing so said to be is a thing of which
something is true which is not true of anything else Whatever.
But if this be taken to mean a thing which has a predicate
which nothing else has, the search for such a thing obviously
becomes very difﬁcult. Hence arises a tendency to suppose
that a substance must be a thing with a very great variety

 

 

 

of predicates; since, if you assign it enough, there is some hope
that there will be no other thing of which it is true that it has
all those predicates. In this way we obtain such deﬁnitions of

Substance as that it is that which unites all positive predicates ; MW”;
a.

 

 

 

 




new QWEVMMEW

or of an Individual, as that it combines the greatest possible
differentiation with the greatest possible unity. But all such
attempts leave unexplained the fact, which they cannot
but recognise, that the predicates themselves, if they are
different, must each have that very property, which their
combination is supposed to bestow on Siibstance—r‘t—ﬂ‘namely,
that something is true of each/“which is not true of any?“
thing else. Either they are not each unique; in which case
the Substance also has lost its uniqueness: or else they are;
and then the collection of any number is no whit more so than
each one singly. It is not then by its predicates that a
Substance can be distinguished. Something is true of it which
is not true of anything else, but this cannot mean that it has
either one or any number of predicates which nothing else has.
There is in fact an ambiguity in the expression, “that which is
true of a thing,” to point out which is all that I can do in the
way of deﬁning a subject. It is the case with any subject, not
only that something is true of it, which is true of nothing else,
but that everything which is true of it is true of nothing else.
But this does 12:9; mean that it may not have the same relation
to other things which something else has; it may and must
have some relation to some other thing, which everything else
has. What is meant is that the fact of its having thatrelation
is not the same fact as that anything else has it. That it is
a subject, for instance, is a different truth from the truth that
anything else is so, although what each asserts to be true of the
subject in question is exactly the same.

; (1) Our first kind of “Identity,” therrﬁeself-sarneness or

individualityFneither afﬁrms nor denies difference. It is true

A".
i .’

that if two things are numerically different, each is an inch?
vidual. But to assert that a thing is not an individual is not
equivalent to asserting that it is not numerically different from

some other. N umerical difference can only be asserted or
denied of two individuals; individuality can be asserted or M
denied of one. The motive of botlnidenials is indeed the same, b .u j

T v

 




A..~..\.1.naNF-rivrvf " iv123 '

namely, the desire to prove that a single individual possesses
both of two predicates, of which it is obvious that it possesses
one. But whereas the denial of numerical difference would
leave it doubtful which of the two was to be beneﬁted, the
denial of individuality makes it plain that the advantages of
the transaction are not to accrue to that of which it is denied.
Thus, for instance, in order to prove a Spiritualism by trans-M
ferring to mind some of the predicates which appear to attach
to matter, it is necessary both to deny their numerical difference
(which by itself might lead to Materialism), and also to deny

the individuality of matter (which by itself might lead to
Agnosticism).

if" ”i (2) The above combination of these two denials gives us a
second sense of identity. A thing may be said to be numerically
identical with another, when it is denied both to have indi-iﬂi
viduality and to be numerically different from that other. An
assertion of identity in this sense is obviously never true; just
because an assertion of it in the ﬁrst sense always is so.
N either the denial of individuality nor the denial of numerical
difference is ever true. Yet both are frequently denied. The
reason seems to be that we frequently wish to assert that two
relations both attach to one individual. In such cases the
truth that the one relation attaches to the individual is a
different truth from the truth that the other attaches to it;
and since the truths are different it is assumed that they have
different subjects. Thus the difference between truths which
consists in their asserting different relations of the same subject
is confused with that which consists in their asserting the same
relation of different subjects. Thus, if we say, “The red I am
thinking of now is the same as that of which I was thinking
then,” it is easy to suppose that the identity predicated is of
the same kind as when we say, “The red at this place is the
sameias the red at that place.” In the second case, however,
we are asserting that two things numerically different have the q
same relation to one universal (a particular tint of red), whereas 1

 

 

 

 

'6

 

 




 

124 L13 moon‘s. " '

in the ﬁrst we may be merely predicating two different relations
of a single individual. When once, in this way, we have come
to suppose that we can deny of a thing that it differs numerically
from itself, it is comparatively easy to persuade ourselves that
the denial may extend to other things.

i But (3) we may deny conceptual difference of two things
numerically different. We may then be said to assert that
'they are conceptually identical. In all such cases the assertion
of identity is the assertion of a relation between two different
things: identity does really imply difference. The relation
asserted may, according to what was said above, be either the
relation 0f two particulars to the same univErsal, or the relation
of the universal to a particular, or that of a particular to a
universal. All three relations are different, but all are alike in
implying the denial of conceptual difference. It is plain that
in such cases it is very easy to suppose that, since we assert
identity in spite of numerical difference, we are also denying
numerical difference. And if numerical difference could be
denied in the case of conceptual identicals, there would be no
objection to its denial in the case of things conceptually
different, since they are not a hit more numericallv different
than the others. Moreover 4;- P®,: f 5 444’: 3”)

' i (4) Things which are hot .7 . ' p '
different from one another f: 043:“kﬂf/‘6' : AVLU Mtc‘ .
relation which is very liable tL‘ df’f’f/V (fl/fv/J’Yéa‘farl“ (YK
particular to particular: I me $0M (1%,;qu :;
class to one another. If a nu /

said to have in common the fa U

we are liable to suppose that

also have in common in the same way the fact that they are all-
red. If the ﬁrst set may be said to exhibit identity of content,
why not the second ? And if. the second, why not the series of
numbers, &c.? It must, I think, he admitted that 2 and 3
are sometimes said to exhibit identity in difference fpr no better
reason than that they. are both numbers. ft is thought that

.\...
l
L

,.. .1;
1t

 

 

 




their being numbers enters into their nature as individuals, in
the same way as its redness constitutes the nature of “ this
red.” Yet it must be insisted that 2 and 3 are 3594 conceptually
identical. Their relation to number is quite different from that
of two particulars to their universal. Though this, therefore, is
a case in which identity g’spredicated, I think the usage is one
which might well be given up. The confusion caused by it is
largely responsible for that conception of “ concrete” or “ self:
differentiating” “universal,” which is so powerful an instrument

”4.4... ,. ..

for persuading to the denial of numerical diﬁ'erence between
individuals. If the conception “number” be regarded as having
to the different numbers the relation of a universal to its par-i

ticulars, then, in virtue of their difference, it is called a “ selfr”

w a,...M...A_.A.~ ~:';*
. . , , ‘ ' V

differentiating universal.” Moreover, the number “two,” in

virtue of its relation to it, may be called a (partially) concrete

universal. And further, since it is very easy to confound the

class-concept with the class, why should not the whole series of

numbers (if only it were not inﬁnite!) be regarded as a self”:
differentiating or concrete universal? (I do not know which

expression, or whether either, would be considered appropriate

in this instance.) And, lastly, since here we have a group of
different things, each with an intimate relation to one common

concept, with regard to which the identity in difference charac?
teristic of a concrete univeisal is so remarkable, why

should we not, wherever we have a group of different things,
each of which is related to one common concept, even if that

common concept be only their membership of the group, call

that group, too, a concrete universal? Hence a state is a

concrete universal, a man is a concrete universal ; not because
states and men have some properties in cemmon, nor even
because all the parts of each is a member of a single class, but
because of each of the parts of each it may be said that it is a
member of the state, a part of man. Such extravagances are
quite soberly committed by philosophers of reputation. But

the main pity of it is that, when they have thus invested a ..

-. u...~.-_.'..

‘2'“3’“ “

,
i. -
i

 

 

,..t -
Ii-eryr’xnﬁ am

a.

 

 

".,...".'.‘.'t,‘ . ""I“r"..".‘: '
-.- :"t‘rarzrwxrvm-w .. -. t

 




135‘ assassins“

group with the title of concrete universal or individual (perhaps
these are the same ’4’), they then hark back and begin to invest
the group with the properties which belong to a real universal:
as that, without their relation to the universal, the particulars
would not be what they are; that the group, as a whole,
possesses all the attributes which its particulars have singly;
that they, conversely, possess all its attributeséare microcosms
to its macrocosm. By such methods it is easy to prove that
the world is an individual; that all differences are transcended
in it; that its capability of remaining one, in spite of them, is

admirable. .
1' 3 But to return: (5) If two things numerically different may

be conceptually the same, may not two things conceptually
different be numerically the same? The answer has been
already given: no two things can be nuinericallyétlie same.
But the question introducesus to the last meaning of identity
which I intend to considerﬁthat, namely, in which identity is
predicated of complex things. The case of complex things is
one in which those who are, in general, most anxious to deny
that there is such a thing as numerical difference, have
strenuously maintained it. Their very doctrine is that con-,7“
ceptual difference is compatible with numerical identity. They
wish to maintain that a thing may be the same with itself
(that foolish proposition, “ Mind is mind ”), in spite of having
different predicates; and that because they hold that the
subject is constituted by its predicates. The ﬁrst question
to be answered under this head is: Can a collection be an
individual? It certainly may present points of resemblance
to one. Thus we can predicate things of a number of parts,
which are different truths from any that can be predicated
of each by itself; as that they are so many, or that they have
such a shape. Moreover, we have already admitted that one
kind of complex thing, a truth, may, as a whole, be numerically
different from another; and where two truths assert the same
predicate of things conceptually the same, they may even be [\l'ii
N

i

 

 

 

 

 

 




‘u-ID-ENTL‘BWM W“

conceptually identical. Complexes are then capable of being
subjects, both as wholes, and also in that certain predicates
attach to all their parts which do not attach to each singly.
But it is very important to distinguish these cases from those
in which a mere relation between the parts is asserted. Thus,
when I say that my coat is black, I may be understood to assert
that, if not all, yet a great number of, its parts are so. But the
assertion that each one of them is black is not to be understood
as an assertion of the relation of particulars to a universal, but
of black particulars to other particulars. Accordingly, when it
is asserted of one of them that it is black and woollen, this is
not to be understood as an assertion that one individual has two
predicates, but that two individuals have a certain relation.
The parts of my coat, then, understood in this sense, have
neither conceptual nor numerical identity. In each case it
is possible to distinguish some one individual related to a
conceptually diﬁ'erent individual; and it is these relations
which are asserted when all are said to be black. The assergﬁl
tion of identity through change, and of personal identity, always
involves relations of this kind. When the same identical thing
is said to persist, it is always meant that two or more particulars,
conceptually identical, are continuous in time; and the change
resolves itself into the fact that each of two conceptually
different particulars has the same relation to each at a different
time. Thus the “material identity ” of a thing may be said
to consist in the continuous existence of conceptually identical»
particulars, which have at different times the same relation to
different particulars.

 

 

 

 

 




