WE & THE ANIMALS ARE KIN
By JESSEY WADE

Workers in the cause of humaneness, with all true lovers and
students of nature, are pleading for a fuller recognition of the
physical and psychical kinship of men and animals, for, though it
may be gratefullyadmitted that the imagined gulf between the two
grows less wide, we still have—as the naturalist, Mr. W. J. Long,
puts it— '

“Many queer ideas about animals which we should do well to
modify if we are ever to develop a reasonable philosophy.”

Every educated human being who can accept the assertion that
Man has nothing that the beasts have not at least a vestige of,
and that the animals have nothing that Man does not, in some
degree, share, might surely be expected to render due respect
and sympathy to his kindred of the wild, apart from the reason of
his indebtedness to the animals who have served and toiled for him
during countless ages.

ls it not mainly the want of right thinking about the animals

which is at the rootof most of the cruelty cases taken into Court,
the abuse of them for amusement, sport, science, food and dress,
our whole attitude being based on that childish and barbaric notion
that animals were created for us and our ends?

That this idea is likely to die hard we may be sure—it is such a
convenient one for most people. On the other (hand, there are
many signs of a wider sympathy developing in the hearts of the younger
generation, largely due, of course, to the influence of sympathetic
teachers in our Council Schools, where thoughts and acts of kind-
ness and justice are demanded and encouraged, together with the
yearly observance of Animals’ Welfare Week, which is gradually
becoming a recognised institution all over the country.

Consequently, children’s sympathies have become deﬁnitely
active. They realise the right of every bird to ﬂight and freedom,
to its nest and young; they no longer chase cats in the streets, but
are eager to report cases of injury. loss or cruelty, and a cat basket
for emergencies is kept ready for use in many schools.

Little by little the idea of keeping “pets” (in captivity) is being
replaced by a dawning sense of the injustice and even 'of cruelty
that may attend the keeping of birds in cages, fish in globes, rodents,

 




etc., in stuffy boxes. The wise mother will no longer buy a kitten
as a plaything for the baby.

This “pet” business is but one'of the “queer ideas” which we
humans would do well to modify. It all sounds kindly meant: to
teach children to tend and care for such living toys is plausible
enough but it lacks a true understanding.

When old and responsible enough to be given charge of a'
friendly dog, cat or pony, then comes the real opportunity for the
girl and boy to develop and extend their sense of kinship.

So much for the brighter side of our friendship with the “other
animals”, which holds much promise for the future. Companionship, '
pleasure, education, are all derived from it—if sport of another
kind is desired, are there not out-of—door games in plenty?

Must the hunting to death of harmless wild creatures by school-
boys be fostered and allowed for ever?

Eton College, for example, cannot be congratulated on its
perverse refusal to come into line with the spirit of the times and
of public opinion, which cannot see why an ordinary man may be
sent to prison for setting his dog to worry and kill a cat, and the
sons of noble(?) and gentle(?) men may be permitted to spend their
holidays in inflicting pain and hours of terror upon defenceless hares,
pursued by beagles, with impunity.

Many times, during many years, influential names have accom-
panied memorials and petitions presented to Headmaster and
Governing Body, asking for the abolition of the Eton College pastime-
of hunting and “breaking—up” of hares.

No one there has yet had the courage and generosity to stand?
up for the cause of mercy. But Dr. Arnold did it at Rugby, and
the School still survives—«without the pack of beagles!

[WW
2
FEE? 18 Wilt};
W am BMW

m m w w“;
m"Wo-0M.~~m w

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR 'ANI'M'ALS’ WELFARE:

 




