CS: Of all the chapters, I am

most uncomfortable with this one.
The work done revising and updating
it seems sloppy to me, so I'm not
at all sure of its accuracy in any
area. You'll see what I mean when
you review the questions and

inconsistencies.

Lynne

w/

v'
.1
,- '

CW%%ﬁﬁ9§

.3.“
35'

/' ” {W13 ff ““5 4 k
L/' f :

 

 




 




If the offender be a servant, he curses u, and asks if you are his
master? and if he be the master himself, he ells you that the animal is his
own . . . Animals are considered as property only—To destroy or to abuse
them, from malice fbt the proprietor, or with an intention injurious to his
interest in them, is criminal—but the animals themselves are without protec-
tion—the law regards th'érn not substantively—they have no RIGHTS!

Lord Erskine introduced the} . ill for the prevention of cruelty to animals into the
House of Lords on 15 May 18 - . The bill was passed by the lords but lost in the
commons by 37 to 27, due to the sneers poured upon it by a member named
Windham: “What a pretty figure shallyve make in the world . . . if in one column of the
.. newspaper we read a story of commitments under the ‘Cruelty to Animals Act, and In
another. . . of a ‘glorious run, five horses only being in at the death, of fifty
started—several having died in the fieldﬁxlf the horses be within the provision of the
statute, the hounds are not, and at all events the ‘rights of the fox’ are violated with
impunity.” (What a revelation of the cruelties of the hunt!) Disappointing as the defeat
must have been at the time to men of sensiti ity, in the light of history their contribu-
tion was a sturdy stepping stone to actual leg Elation.

lt fell to the lot of an Irishman, Richard Martin (1754-1834), to succeed in bringing
the first English legislation to passage. Martin, representing County Galway in Parlia-
ment, was widely known for his love of animals. He was called “Humanity Martin by
his personal friend, King George IV. “Humanity Martin” was not only humane but also
practical. He consulted a well-known expert, JohnxLawrence, to help him on the
details of his bill.

John Lawrence (1753-1839), described as a “literary farmer,” was an authority on
agriculture and the management of domestic animals. From the alliance of these two
humanitarians, Martin and Lawrence, came forth the first legislation in England for the
prevention of cruelty to animals. It is known as “Martin’s Act” (3 George [V Chap. 71)
and was passed 22 July 1822. Entitled “An Act to prevent the cruel and improper
Treatment of Cattle,” it empowered Magistrates to inflict a penalty of 10 shillings to 5
pounds or imprisonment not exceeding three months on persons convicted of cruel
treatment of “Horses, Mares, Geldings, Mules, Asses, Cows, Heifers, Steers, Oxen,
Sheep and other Cattle.”

Lawrence was a humanitarian who wrote thus in “A Philosophical Treatise on
Horses and on the Moral Duties of Man towards the Brute Creation”:

Justice, in which are included mercy, or compassion, obviously refers to
sense and feeling. Now is the essence of justice divisible? Can there be one
kind of justice for men, and another for brutes? Or is feeling in them a dif-
ferent thing to what it is in ourselves? Is not a beast produced by the same
rule, and in the same order of generation with ourselves? Is not his, body
nourished by the same food, hurt by the same injuries; his mind actuated by
the same passions and affections which animate the human breast; :and
does not he, also, at last, mingle his dust with ours, and in like manner
surrender up the vital spark to the aggregate, or fountain of intelligence?
is this spark, or soul, to perish because it chanced to belong to a beast? is it to
become annihilate? Tell me, learned philosophers, how that may possrbly
happen.

Chapter I

THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS
IN THE UNITED STATES
by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Diane Haluerson

America has the distinction of being the first country to acknowledge the rights of
animals by enacting statutory legislation to protect them from cruel treatment. In 1641
the Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony voted to have printed their first legal
code. “The Body of Liberties.”l There are one hundred “liberties” which the Puritans
expect “to be respectively impartiallie and inviolably enjoyed and observed throughout
our Jurisdiction for ever.” At a time when others considered animals as mere property.
to be used 0r abused at the whim of man, the Table of Contents lists: Liberty 92.
Cruelty to animals forbidden. On turning to Liberty 92, we find:

OFF THE BRUlTE CREATURE

92. No man shall exercise any Tirranny or Crueltie towards any bruite Crea-
ture which are usuallie kept for man’s use.

93. If any man shall have occasion to leade or drive Cattel from place to place
that is far of, so that they be weary, or hungry, or fallsick, or lambe, It shall be
lawful to rest or refresh them, for a competent time, in any open place that is not
Come, meadow, or inclosed for some peculiar use.

Thus we have, in addition to the first anti-cruelty law, the first law to protect animals
in transit.

The Puritans take special care to proclaim these “liberties” laws:

96. Howsoever these above specified rites, freedomes, Immunities, Authorities
and priveledges, both Civill and Ecclesiastical are expressed onely under the
name and title of Liberties, and not in the exact form of Laws or Statutes, yet we
do with one consent fullie Authorise, and earnestly intreate all that are and shall
be in Authoritie to consider them as laws, and not to faile to inﬂict condigne and
proportionable punishments upon every man impartiallie, that shall infringe or
violate any of them.

To strengthen further the legality of Liberty 92, we draw on the research of the
noted historian, Samuel Eliot Morison. In his book, Builders of the Bay Colony (page
232), he says, “Although animals then had no protection in Common Law, ‘The Bruite
Creature’ has a section of his own in the Body of Liberties.” And, in a footnote. Mr.
Morison refers to an “interesting case of condemnation for cruelty to an ox. in Records
of Quarterly Courts of Essex County [Massachusetts] Ill, 305.” It seems clear that

Liberty 92 not only was an anti-cruelty law but also was used successfully for
prosecution.

This law is far ahead of its time—so far ahead that humanitarians throughout the
world, not aware of its existence, have been assuming that the British M.P., Richard
Martin, who fought so fiercely for enactment of the first anti-cruelty legislation in
England (1822), was the primary author of all the laws that have followed. It seems
now that “Humanity” Martin must give up first place to the Puritan minister, Nathaniel
Ward, who compiled the Body of Liberties of 1641.

Nathaniel Ward (c. 1578-1652) was born in Haverhill, England. He was a graduate
of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, studied law and became a barrister. Driven out of
England for heresy by Bishop Laud, he came to New England in 1634 and settled in
lpswicluﬂ'lassachusettsi, where he compiled “The Body of Liberties.” adopted by the
General Court of Massachusetts in December, 1641. Beginning in 1635, there had

 




12 Animals and Their Legal Rights

been a growing concern among the Deputies of the towns of the Massachusetts Bay
Colony for a draft of laws; committees had been appointed time and again, but they all
failed to produce results. Finally, in June, 1641, the guiding powers enlisted the service
of “a learned lawyer” whose legal abilities they felt to be superior—the Rev. Nathaniel
Ward, who had already served on some of the committees. In his autobiographical
sketch, “The Simple Cobler of Aggawam,” Mr. Ward says, “I have read almost all the
Common Law of England”; this and his own experiences were the sources from which
he drafted his statute—book. He enriched the code with his own practical good sense
and his understanding of the communal love of liberty, making “The Body of
Liberties” in entirety a work far in advance of the time.2

Aside from these Puritan laws, “there was little early specific legislation but it was
possible to prosecute ‘cruelists’ under common law as committing ‘nuisances.’ ” For
instance:

A cartman in Philadelphia has been indicted and found guilty of cruelly beating

his horse and sentenced to pay a fine of $30 7 .' , prosecution and to

C“ “ .

give bond for his good behavior for one year.~“" n5; ' ‘ y,

This information is given by William Shultz in the tion to his book, The
Humane Movement in the United States, 1910-1922, page 12. Note that the cartman
had “to give bond for his good behavior for one year,” in addition to the $30, and
costs. It would seem that some of our modern penalties for cruelty fall far short of the
wisdom of this one.

As further evidence that cruel treatment of animals was punishable under Common
Law, we have this statement from the Digest of New York Statutes and Reports:

Animals III. Treatment—Preservation—-Destruction of Animals.

28. Cruelty. That wanton cruelty to an animal—e.g. excessive beating of his horse

by a cartman,—is punishable at common law as a misdemeanor. Gen. Sess.,

1822, People v. Stakes, 1 Wheel. Cr. Cas., 111. And see Ross’ Case, 3 City H.

Rec. 191.4

As far as can be determined, the first anti-cruelty law among the United States was
enacted in 1828 by the New York State Legislature. This law reads:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall maliciously kill, maim, or wound any horse, ox,
or other cattle, or sheep, belonging to another, or shall maliciously and cruelly
beat or torture any such animal, whether belonging to himself or another, shall,
upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.5
Although this law limits the protected animals to owned horses, cattle, or sheep, it does
give these animals the right to be protected from their owners’ cruel treatment, thus
taking them out of the class of mere property and giving them the legal right to be well
treated for the first time in an established state of the Union.

Who is responsible for this law? Efforts (searching back to the Colonial Laws of
1664) to trace the origin to an earlier date than 1828 have so far proved fruitless;
therefore, we must look to the 1827-28 Revisors of the Statutes for responsibility. The
two Revisors are B. F. Butler and John C. Spencer. According to these gentlemen, in
their report to the Legislature of the State of New York, dated October 15, 1828, they
had been charged with the duty of presenting an entirely new arrangement and
organization of the criminal laws. Saying that the common law had long ceased to be a
satisfactory guide in assigning punishments, they cite the following guides for their
work: '

(1) The codes of penal law and of procedure in criminal cases, prepared by Mr.

Livingston for the state of Louisiana. . . But the different state of society for

The Evolution of Anti-Cruelty Laws 13

which our labors are intended, and prevailing sentiments respecting punish-
ments varying essentially from those entertained by the enlightened author of

Lhose codes, have prevented the adoption of many provisions suggested by
m . . .

Anthony Hammond, Esq., a distinguished jurist of the Inner Temple (in
England) where recent and great efforts have been made to simplify their
criminal laws. This gentleman transmitted to us his able and voluminous
reports and consolidations, prepared under the employment of the govern-
ment for the British Parliament. They contain complete digests of the British
statutes respecting crimes, with copious annotations from the reports. They
have been of essential service to us. . . it is but just to remark that they were
not so generally applicable to this state, as to relieve us from the labor of
newly digesting and arranging so much of the law as relates to crimes and
their punishments.6

From these explanations, it would seem that credit may be given to Mr. Butler and

Mr. Spencer for phrasing the first anti-cruelty state law and for assigning its violation
the punishment of a misdemeanor.

The next state to pass anti-cruelty legislation was Massachusetts in 1835.7 The
wording was similar to that of the New York law, but the punishment was designated:
“by imprisonment in the county jail, not more than one year, or by fine not exceeding
one hundred dollars.”

In 1838 Connecticutsand Wisconsin9added an anti-cruelty law to their statutes.
Connecticut’s penalty was imprisonment not exceeding one month or fine not

exceeding twenty-five dollars; Wisconsin set imprisonment at not more than thirty days
and fine from five to fifty dollars.

The following chronological outline shows the year in which each state enacteddts
first anti-cruelty law. Penalties were similar to those already quoted, until Texaslb set a
fine as up to $250. Pennsylvaniall imposed a more severe penalty: a fine up to ’two
hundred dollars, imprisonment up to one year, or both, at the discretion of the court;
and Idaho set its punishment as “A fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or im-
prisonment...not exceeding six months, or both such fine and imprisonment.” IdaholZ
made another step forward by introducing and passing a companion law (Sec. 142) to
impose a similar penalty on any person “who shall willfully administer any poison to
any cattle or domestic animal or maliciously expose any poisonous substance, with the
intent that the same shall be taken or swallowed by cattle or domestic animal . . So
far as is known, this is the first law in the United States to protect domestic animals
from poisoning.

UNITED STATES ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS
Chronological E nactment

1641 Massachusetts Bay Colony “The Body of Liberties”
1828 New York Minnesota
1835 Massachusetts Kentucky °
1838 Connecticut Vermont
1838 Wisconsin Texas
1842 New Hampshire Rhode Island
1845 Missouri Tennessee
1848 Virginia Kansas
1851 Iowa Washington

‘ Revised I 966.

 




 

Animals and Their Legal Rights

1880
1880
1881
1881
1883
1883
1884
1887
1887
1889
1890

Mississippi
Ohio

North Carolina
South Carolina
Alabama
Maine

Hawaii

New Mexico
South Dakota
Florida
Maryland
North Dakota
Oklahoma

Wyoming ”’7’

Pennsylvania ”
Nevada

Idaho

Oregon

New Jersey
California

West Virginia
Illinois

District of Columbia
Michigan

Montana

Colorado
Delaware

Indiana

Nebraska

Georgia

Arkansas 1913
Louisiana 1921

By 1866 when Henry Bergh secured legislative consent for the incorporation of the
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, twenty states had enacted
anti-cruelty laws; of these states, six were in reality still territories when they passed
their law: Wisconsin, Minnesota, Washington, Kansas, Nevada, Idaho.

In spite of laws to prevent cruelty to animals, Henry Bergh, even with his newly
incorporated society, found it difficult to get convictions. His 1957 biographer, A. F.
Harlow, in Henry Bergh, Founder of the ASPCA, says that although there had been
an anti-cruelty law passed in New York State in 1829 (sic) no one could remember
that it had ever been used to prosecute; it seemed better to draft a new law than to try
to revive an old one. Nevertheless, Henry Bergh’s first law, passed April 19, 1866, is
similar to the 1828 law, though an added section aims to protect disabled horses and
mules from abandonment.

Statutes at Large of the State of New York passed in the years 1863, 1864, 1865,
1866. Chapter 682. AN ACT better to prevent cruelty to animals. Passed April
19, 1866.

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly, do
enact as follows:

51. The twenty-sixth section of title six, chapter first, part four of the Revised
Statutes, is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

, §26. Every person who shall by his act or neglect, maliciously kill, maim,
wound, injure, torture or cruelly beat any horse, mule, ox, cattle, sheep or other
animal belonging to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged guilty
of a misdemeanor.

. 52. Every owner, driver or possessor of an old, maimed, or diseased horse or

mule, turned loose or left disabled in any street, lane or place of any city in this
state, who shall allow such horse or mule to lie in any street, lane or public place

for more than three hours after knowledge of such disability, shall, on conviction,

be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

This 1866 law undoubtedly served the purpose of re-establishing anti-cruelty
legislation as a matter of public conscience, demanding respectful attention by judges

1898
1913 Alaska

Arizona \

” RCVISCt‘. 1965.

f Ft i
l 4‘. if:
in}!

- .7

Utah EM , ,

: 4:7 r K '
Virgin Islands i ..

f)’

"M, WW mgr-51,, 2'. 23;;

/

,4

The Evolution of Anti-Cruelty Lauisw’ 15

/
ot prosecutions which Henry/Eergh had often found heretofore dismissed facetiously
with no conviction. .

Sensitive as he was tot e many cruelties being inflicted on animals, however, and
cognizant of the newly ar used public sentiment, Henry Bergh did not stop with the
somewhat meager 1866, egislation. His real masterpiece of legal draftsmanship‘vc‘ame
in 1867 when “An Ac€’/for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animal§’rwas
passed on April 12. This Act has ten sections and has since served as the example for
the drafting of many succeeding anti-cruelty laws (forty-one states, and the District of

' 4 3 Columbia, have present laws based on this Act). For this reason it seems worthy of
-..q_uotation in entirety here.

’IA careful scrutiny of the 1867 law will show the great advance made in establishing

rotection and legal rights for animals. In Section 1, notice the detailed, specific

cruelties, and that they are now applied to “any living creature.” Section 2, a new

‘ ,5; addition, prohibits animal fights and baiting. Sections 3 and 4 protect impounded

animals from hunger and thirst. Section 5 aims to stop cruelty in transporting animals.
Section 10 shows the early impact of animal experimentation upon the cruelty laws;
even in 1867 it is exempt from cruelty charges.

"W““WWSIS’OIFPWE'SG‘EN

A detailed analysis of the current anti-cruelty ws in the fifty states, the District of
Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Ca 1 Zone, the Virgin Islands and the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shows that th ublic conscience generally agrees that
all animals have the rigﬁtto ( 1) protection fro cruel treatment, such as is described in
detail in Section 1 of Henry Bergh’s 186 law, (2) protection from abandonment,
(3) protection from poisoningand (4) the rovision of food, water and shelter.

Protection frgm Cruel Treatment

As the following charts show, therefare 25 laws which stipulate that cruel treatment
must have been committed willfully? maliciously or cruelly, etc. (See charts I, II) In
court it is often difficult to prove? willfulness or malice and so, in practice, such
qualifications can lead to the abquittal‘of offenders who might justly have been
convicted of committing cru to animals under the unqualified laws of other
jurisdictions. Moreover, suchﬁ’ provision can be interpreted as a license to inflict any
degree of suffering on any nt'lmber of animals provided that the motives of the person
inﬂicting the pain are notgsadistic. This interpretation is applied to scientific research
and to scientific demonstrations in schools. From state to state the qualifications are
not equally restrictive. r example, in Delaware cruelty is prohibited when committed
“intentionally or rec ssly”; in Hawaii: “knowingly or recklessly”; and in Maine:
“intentionally, knowingly or recklessly.” Humane agents contacted in these states
believe that in relation to the qualified laws of other states the addition of the phrase
“or recklessly” contributes to a comparatively strong anti-cruelty law by specifically
prohibiting suffering inflicted due to recklessness, that is, because due caution was not
exercised. (“Reckléss” is defined in Webster’s Third New International Dictionary 1961
to mean “carelesj neglectful, thoughtless; marked by a' lack of caution; marked by a
lack of foresight o gconsideration.”) ‘

In Delaware however, the anti-cruelty law states in full: “A person is guilty of cruelty
to animals when he intentionally or recklessly: (1) Subjects any animal to cruel

" The manner in which these laws are charted is based on a common sense reading of the statutes. not on
case history. Citizens should investigate whether deﬁnitions at“; any terms which appear in their state's
anti-cruelty code have been established by the courts when no statutory deﬁnition is provided.

 




mils and Their Legal Rights

ty to animals, Henry Bergh,
'ety, found it difficult to get
F. Harlow, in Henry Bergh,
hough there had been an anti-
e in 1829 (sic) no one could
o prosecute; it seemed better
ive an old one. Nevertheless,
'l 19, 1866, is similar to the

s to protect disabled horses

uf New York passed in
Chapter 682. AN ACT
5. Passed April 19, 1866.

w York, represented in
as follows:

f title six, chapter first,
, is hereby amended so

by his act or neglect,
iure, torture or cruelly
reep or other animal be-
all, upon conviction, be
r.

possessor of an old,
1e, turned loose or left
ace Of any city in this
or mule to lie in any
e than three hours after
, on conviction, be ad-

he purpose of re—establishing
nublic conscience, demanding
cutions which Henry Bergh
cetiously with no conviction.

elties being inflicted on ani-
ly aroused public sentiment,
e somewhat meager 1866
draftsmanship came in 1867
al prevention of cruelty to
5 Act has ten sections and
drafting Of many succeeding
I the District Of Columbia,

 

 

//

 

 

 

_ »- ,Act). (For. this reason it seems
Orthy'of quotation in en ii’ety here. I.

. A careful scrutiny of. the 1867 law will show the great advance
{ made in establiSIiing protection, and legal rights for animals. In
Section 1, noticethe detailed, specific cfruelties, and that they are
now applied to “any living creature.” Section-2, a new addition,

prohibits animal fights‘an baiting Sections 3 and 4 prOt'ect im-

\

\ .

pounded animals from hunger and thir t. SectionVS aims to: stop
cruelty in transporting animals. Secti‘o 10 shows' th; early impact
of animal experimentation \ipon the cruelty laws; e“ in 1867 it is
exempt from‘ cruelty charges.

a)

.\\‘

ﬂ . STATUTES AT LARGE
A! l OF THE
1’ /

i

/ STATE OF NEW YORK

Passed in the Years 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870
John W. Edmonds, Ed., Vol. VII, 1870

CHAP. 375

AN ACT for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals.

Passed April 12, 1867 ; three-fifths being present.
' The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate
and Assembly, do enact as follows:

SECTION 1. If any person shall over-drive, over-load, torture,
torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or unnecessarily or cruelly
beat, or needlessly mutilate or kill, or cause or procure to be over-
driven, over-loaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of necessary
sustenance, or to be unnecessarily or cruelly beaten, or needlessly
mutilated or killed, as aforesaid, any living creature, every such
offender shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.

SECTION 2. Any person who shall keep or use, or in any way
be connected with, or interested in the management of, or shall
receive money for the admission Of any person to any place kept
or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog,

, cock or other creature, and every person who shall encourage, aid

or assist therein, or who shall permit or suffer any place to be so
kept or used, shall, upon conviction thereof, be adjudged guilty of
a misdemeanor.

. SECTION 3. Any person who shall impound, or cause to be
impounded in any pound, any creature, shall supply to the same,

during such confinement, a sufficient quantity of good and whole-

“'J'

 




J

t

O
Q

‘ 20 I nimals and Their Legal Rights

o ‘3\

a .. i . .
, some food and water, and m default thereof, shall upon COHVlCtlon,

be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

SECTION 4. In case any creature shall be at any time impounded
as aforesaid, and shall continue to be without necessary food and
water for more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for
any person, from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary,
to enter into and upon any pound in which any such creature shall
be so confined, and to supply it with necessary food and water so
long as it shall remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable
to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost of such food
and water may be collected by him of the owner of such creature,
and the said creature shall not be exempt from levy and sale upon
execution issued upon judgment therefor.

SECTION 5. If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried,
in or upon any vehicle or otherwise, any creature, in a cruel or in-
human manner, he shall be guilty Of a misdemeanor; and whenever
he shall be taken into custody therefor by any officer, such officer
may take charge of such vehicle and its contents, and deposit the
same in some safe place of custody; and any necessary expenses
which may be incurred for taking charge Of and keeping and sustain-
ing the same, shall be a lien thereon, to be paid before the same can
be lawfully recovered. Or the said expenses or any part thereof
remaining unpaid, may be recovered by the person incurring the
same, of the owner of said creature, in any action therefor.

SECTION 6. Every person who shall hereafter use any dog or
dogs for the purpose of drawing or helping to draw any cart, car-
riage, truck, barrow or other vehicle, in any city or incorporated
village, for business purposes, shall be required to take out a license
for that purpose, from the mayor or president thereof, respectively,
and shall have the number of said license and the residence of the
owner distinctly painted thereon; and for each violation of this sec-
tion shall forfeit and pay a fine of one dollar for the first Offense,
and a fine of ten dollars for each subsequent Offense.

SECTION 7. If any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled creature
shall be abandoned to die, by any person, in any public place, such
person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and it shall be lawful for
any magistrate or captain of police in this state to appoint suitable
persons to destroy such creature if unfit for further use.

SECTION 8. Any agent of the American society for the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals, upon being designated thereto by the
sheriff of any county in this state, may, within such county, make
arrest, and bring before any court or magistrate thereof having
jurisdiction, Offenders found violating the provisions of this act; and

 

 

The Evolution of Anti-Cruelty, Laws in the U.S. 21

all fines imposed and collected in any such county, under the provi-
sxons Of this act, shall inure to said society, in the aid of the bene-
volent Objects for which it was incorporated.

SECTION 9. This act shall take effect on the first day Of May
next. And the said American society for the prevention of cruelty
to animals shall cause the same to be published once each week for
three weeks, in four daily papers published in New York City, or
in default thereof shall forfeit the'right to receive the penalties and
fines as provided.

SECTION 10. Nothing in this act contained shall be construed
to prohibit or interfere with any properly conducted scientific ex-
periments or investigations, which experiments shall be performed
only under the authority of the faculty of some regularly incorporated
medical college or university Of the state Of New York.

 

.421. w

T. .. '—..:~'- “:——::‘;:r-'f—~ f—gr.-.-;~r”. '——’-_. -1x". ,_‘

OF PRESENT ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

states, the District Of CO

the public conscience gener , ls have the right
to (l) protection from cruel reatment, sucly as is described in
detail in Section 1 of Henry Ber ’s 1867 law: (2) wholesome food
and water, and (3) shelter from t e weather.

As far as which animals are to protected from cruel treat-
ment, 41 laws specify “any animal,” an living creature,” or, even
better, “any living creature, whether wild or tame.” Seven specify
an “owned” animal—sometimes worded “bel ging to himself or tO
another.” This would seem Open to cruel treat ent, without punish-
ment, Of stray animals and wild animals. How er, if conviction is
really wanted, the contention may be made that wil and stray animals
belong to the state, though it is much stronger t . have the law in-
clude “every living creature” as protected. The e are five states
which give protection from cruelty only to domes ic animals. (See
accompanying chart for states concerned.)

U

Poisoning a domestic animal is illegal. In man states, it con-
stitutes a felony. Penalties include imprisonment" fO as long as five
years and fines up to: $1,000 in some states. In 0 ers, the crime is
ciassed as a misdemeanor with corresponding lower penalties.
Poisoners are hard to atch in the act, but ann uncement of a sub-
stantial reward for infor1 tion leading to arrest and conviction of a

person trying to poison do tw proved very effective
in bringing a quick stop to such ' ‘Ies. ,

 

 

 

 

 




ANALYSIS OF PRESENT ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

A detailed analysis of the current anti—cruelty laws in
the fifty states, the District of Columbia, American Samoa,
Guam, the Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands and the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico shows that the public conscience generally
agrees that all animals have the right to (1) protection from
cruel treatment, such as is described in detail in Section 1
,of Henry Bergh's 1867 law; (2) protection from abandonment;
‘W(3) protection from poisoning; and (4) the provision of food,
water and shelter.

iﬂd”‘ﬁh££§£§§£ign £19m Sibel IIﬁﬁimgnL

As the following charts show, 29 states have laws which
stipulate that cruel treatment must have been committed
willfully, maliciously or cruelly, etc. (See Charts I, II).
State statutes with qualifiers such as "intentionally,"
"negligently," "maliciously," or "knowingly" define the
mental state of th person charged. Statutes without
qualifiers make offenders strictly liable for an offense
without regard to mental state. Please note that terms such
as "Cruelly" and "unnecessarily" which characterize the
circumstances of the offense committed must be distinguished

from the qualifiers "intentionally," "negligently,"

6{a%6 u3thLK

"maliciously," or "knowingly" which describeﬁbulpable mental.
can lead to the acquittal of offenders who might justly have.
state.* In court it is often difficult to prove willfulness
or malice, and so, in practice, the use of such qualifiers
been convicted of committing cruelty to animals under the
laws of other jurisdictions drafted without qualifiers.
Moreover, provisions with qualifiers can be interpreted as a
license to inflict any degree of suffering on any number of
animals provided that the motives of the person inflicting
the pain are not sadistic. It is this interpretation that
applied to scientific research and to scientific

demonstrations in schools.

 

ﬁNe are indebted to Professor David S. Favre and attorney-
veterinarian Dr. Murray Loring for their valuable insights
this tOpic. Their noteworthy‘Eiy.publication Animal Law
discusses a variety of topics, including the problems of
cruelty statutes, and provides a clear explanation, with case
support, of the legal principles involved.

 




-2-

From state to state, the qualifiers are not equally
restrictive. For example, in Delaware, cruelty is prohibited
when committed "intentionally or recklessly"; in Hawaii)
"knowingly or recklessly"; and in Maine; "intentionally,
knowingly or recklessly." Humane agents contacted in these
states believe that in relation to the laws of other states
with qualifiers, the addition of the phrase "or recklessly"
contributes to a comparatively strong anti—cruelty law by
specifically prohibiting suffering inflicted due to
recklessness, that is, because due caution was not exercised.
("Reckless" is defined in Webster's Third New International
Dictionary 1971 to mean "lacking in caution: deliberately
courting danger.") However, the Delaware statuteﬂ, quoted in
full as follows, belies the View of the humane agents:

A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he
intentionally or recklessly: (1) Subjects any animal
to cruel mistreatment; or (2) Subjects any animal in
his custody to cruel neglect; or (3) Kills or injures
any animal belonging to another person without legal
privilege or consent of the owner.
Paragraphs (1) and (2) are inappliCable to accepted
veterinary practices and activities carried on for scientific

research. According to the Department of justice, State of

Delaware, "the terms cruel mistreatment of’cruel

neglect...cover the unjustifiable motive-~there must be

:(i

something willfulor wanton about it." (Italics ours.)
Although two states may have the same qualifiersjthe state
courts in one state may interpret their meaning differently.
Therefore, both the statutes and the court cases must be
examined within each sate to determine the activities
prohibited and animals protected under anti-cruelty statutes.
In 21 states and the District of Columbia, experimental
animals used in scientific institutions are specifically
excluded from the protective coverage of the anti-cruelty
laws. These states are: Alabama, Alaska, Delaware, Florida,
Georgia, Hawaii, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri,
Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, South Dakota, Texas,
Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin.

Missouri's law exemplifies the statutory language of most of

 




-3—

the provisions of the animal welfare statue "shall not be
construed to prevent or interfere with any scientific

experiments or investigations: (Section 578.055). In Utah,

the statute explicitly permits both painful anégresearch and

painful animal husbandry practices: "It is a defense to the
prosecution under the section that the conduct of the actor
towards the animal was by a licensed veterinarian using
accepted veterinary practice* or directly related to a bona
fide experimentation for scientific research provided that if
the animal is to be destroyed, the manner employed will not
be unnecessarily cruel unless directly necessary to the
veterinary purpose or scientific research involved" (Section
76-9—301). As drafted, exemptions for scientific research in
Alaska and Vermont call for the "humane" treatment of
animals. The Vermont statute states that nothing within the
anti—cruelty law "shall be construed to prohibit or interfere
with the use of animals for scientific research by competent
research men if done in a humane manner with a minimum of
suffering to the animals" (Section 13-403).

Adthough Pennsylvania's anti-cruelty law does not contain
such exemptions, it does permit the issuance of search
warrants to the police or humane society agents to enter
places where they believe cruelty to animals is being
committed, but adds the following prohibition: "Provided,
That no search warrant shall be issued under the provisions
of this section which shall authorize any policeman, or agent
or other person to enter upon to search premises where
scientific research is being conducted by, or under the
supervision of, graduates of duly accredited scientific
schools or where biological products are being produced for
the care or prevention of disease." (Section 18-5511, Act of

June 3, 1911, as amended.)

 

*"Accepted veterinary practice" includes performing, without
anesthesia, such procedures as dehorning of cattle at any
age, docking the tails o¥3pigs and sheep, and castration.Qi

 




-4...

mansion of Legal rarer and Shelter

Seventeen states, the District of Columbia and Guam
prohibit both depriving an animal of "necessary sustenance"
and failing to provide "food and water" or "food, water and
shelter." (See Chart VI.) Several require the provision of
"necessary sustenance" without further reference to food,
water or shelter. The application of the phrase "necessary
sustenance" varies from state to state but minimally refers
to the provision of food and water or, in some states, to a
. sufficient amount of wholesome food, or to such additional
provisions as shelter, adequate exercise, sanitary living
conditions, adequate Space for confined animals and necessary
veterinary care.

In New York, for example, Section 353 of the anti-
cruelty code sates in part: "A person who...deprives any

aL
animal of necessary sustenance, food or “drink, or neglects or

3~Ci\f7b\‘§C/\cyf‘r0 0V dﬂ 05‘ n" am; AYM LNW/(Z’; am at r c
refuses to furnish itAto any animal, or many act ending
produce such cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor....ﬁ
(Emphasis added) In the case of PeOple v. O'RourkegaEGQ
N.Y.S. 2d 335 (1975), motion denied, 83 Misc. 2d 51, 371
N.Y.S. 2d 603, the defendants were charged with violating
Section 353 for allowing a limping horse to continue to work
without providing it with necessary veterinary care. The
court noted the definition of "sustenance““in Webster's Third
New International Dictionary (1966): "the act of supplying

.
.. ,. hwy: g

or being supplied with the necessaries of life." The court

also cited the definition of "torture" or "cruelty": "Every

«A

act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical
pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted" and
determined that failing to provide the horse with necessary
medical attention constituted neglect under Section 353.*

(Italics ours.)

 

*Illinois requires "veterinary care when needed to prevent
sufferingz; Maine; "necessary medical attention"; Maryland:
"necessary veterinary care"; Pennsylvania: "veterinary
care" Puerto Rico: "medical or veterinary treatment if

needed."

 




-5...

Because of varying interpretations, statutes requiring
only "necessary sustenance" are, for the purposes of this
chapter, interpreted as requiring the furnishing of food and if:
water. Those laws are marked with a "+" in the accompanying
charts. Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is a
violation of law in forty—six states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone and Guam.

Anti-cruelty statutes in twelve states and Guam enable
any private citizen to relieve a neglected animal impounded
on the prOperty of another person by entering into the place
of confinement to supply the animal with food and water, or
by removing the animal to feed and water it. The major
provisions of these laws are noted on pages .

TWenty-three state statutes require shelter without
qualifying phrases. TWenty-three require that failure to
provide shelter be proven intentional or cruel, etc. Twelve
anti-cruelty statutes do not specifically require shelter;
however, eight of these - Hawaii, Mississippi, New Mexico,
North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee and West Virginia -
prohibit depriving an animal of necessary sustenance. Courts
in these states have ruled that necessary sustenance includes
shelter (as well as food and water) with the exceptions of
Oregon, Hawaii and Mississippi, where the courts have not yet
ruled on the issue. Lest one think that protection from the
cold is needed only in such states as Alaska, remember also
the need for shelter from driving rain and wind, and from the
hot, beating sun in such states as Mississippi and Louisiana,
where shelter is not specifically called for. Every
jurisdiction should require shelter in its anti—cruelty code.

Throughout the following food, water and shelter charts,
note that more than one requirement for the provision of
these items may exist in a single state due to separate laws
for confined and non-confined animals, respectively.

Provisignpi m, M,
Ventilation and ﬁggitggy E22229 Condition

Provisions for adequate exercise, space, light,

ventilation and clean living conditions for confined animals

 




-6-

are important but infrequent requirements of state anti-

cruelty laws. Those statutes that do include these
provisions make only brief references to them. Statutes in
Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, New York, Ohio,
Washington, Wisconsin and Puerto Rico require fresh air.
California, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota,
North Dakota, Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin and Puerto Rico
codes make reference to exercise or adequate space. Light is
required in Washington, and Puerto Rico. Maine and Wisconsin

statutes require clean living conditions.

miProtection Eggm Abandonment

Abandonment of animals is defined in the Colorado code
(Section 18-9-201) as "the leaving of an animal by its owner
or other person responsible for its care or custody without
making effective provisions for its proper care." According
to Webster's Third New International Dictionary (1971) to
"abandon" means "to cease to assert or exercise an interest,
right, or title to esp. with the intent of never again
resuming or reasserting it." Colorado, along with 40 other
states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the
Canal Zone, prohibits abandonment. In several sates, the
prohibition is restricted to willful, cruel or intentional
abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; tokabandoning
,‘disabled animals or to abandoning domestic animals (leaving

in question the protection of wild animals in captivity).

(See Chart VII, A—D.)

'.§;gg§ 2f Animals Protected
With reSpect to which animals are to be protected from
cruel treatment, twenty—nine state laws protect any non-human
living creature or "any animal,“ defining animals as all
living creatures except human beings. Twenty-six laws
protect "animal" and six apply the word to domestic animals

captive animals or warm-blooded creatures.

~Erotegtion gram Poisoning

A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal

belonging to another commits a criminal act. The anti-

 




-7-
cruelty laws of twenty—four states, the Canal Zone, Puerto
Rico and the Virgin Islands specifically prohibit the use of
poison to inflict injury or death. Under the Connecticut
anti-cruelty code "any person who...unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domestic
animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance,
with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal, or
causes it to be done...shall be fined not more than one year
or both." Among the states which prohibit administering
and/or exposing toxic substances to domestic animals in the
anti—cruelty code, variations exist as to which animals are
protected: some concern any animal, dogs only, or livestock
only, and some distinguish between animals that are the
property of the poisoner and those that belong to someone
else. Penalties for poisoning or attempting to poison may
vary according to the monetary value of the animal, the
species of animal, and whether the animal belongs to the
poisoner or to another, with the longest term of imprisonment
and highest fine usually imposed when the poison is
administered to or exposed to livestock. In Nevada, for
example, "a person who unjustifiably administers any
poisonous or noxious drug or substance to a horse, mule or
domestic cattle, or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or
substance with intent that it be taken by a horse, mule or
domestic cattle whether the horse, mule or domestic cattle
are the prOperty of himself or another, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the state prison for not less than 1 year nor
more than 10 years, or by a fine of not more than $10,000 or
by both fine and imprisonment. A person who unjustifiably
administers any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any
animal other than a horse, mule or domestic cattle, or
unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance with intent
that the same shall be taken by an animal other than a horse,
mule or domestic cattle, whether such animal is the prOperty

of himself or another, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.*

*The penalty for a gross misdemeanor in Nevada is up to 1
year imprisonment and/or up to $1,000.

 




-8...
This section does not prohibit the destruction of noxious
animals." (Section 574.150).

In states without such anti-cruelty statutes, poisoning
prohibitions may exist under another title of the state law
code, or poisoners who injure or kill any animal belonging to
another may be charged with committing a crime against
prOperty. Within the anti-cruelty code, a poisoner may be
prosecuted for injuring, killing or inflicting pain upon an
animal. Colorado imposes the highest fine for causing pain,
injury or death: a minimum of six months imprisonment and/or
a fine of $500 to a maximum of twenty-four months
imprisonment and/or a $5000 fine. The law states that "a
person commits cruelty to animals if, except as authorized by
law, he...tortures, torments...needlessly kills...any
animal."

Poisoners are hard to catch in the act, but announcement
of a substantial reward for information leading to the arrest
and conviction for a person trying to poison domestic animals
has proved very effective in bringing a quick stop to such
activities.*

** Humane Transpgrt g;_Animals

The anti-cruelty laws of 34 states, the District of
Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico require that
transport of animals be conducted in a humane manner.
Minnesota's law protects "any live animals" (defining
"animal" as "every living creature") and specifies the acts
that constitute a cruel manner of transport.

Minnesota statute 343.24 states:
Every person who shall carry, or cause to be carried,
any live animals upon any vehicle or otherwise,
without providing suitable racks, cares, crates, or
case in which such animals can both stand and lie
down during transportation, and while awaiting
slaughter; every person who shall carry, or cause
to be carried, upon a vehicle or otherwise, any live

animal having feet or legs tied together, or in any
other cruel or inhumane manner, and every person or

*On a national level, the American Humane Association (AHA)
offers to match up to $500 for "infomraiton leading to the
arrest and conviction of any person or persons willfully

poisoning any animal." Reward posters are available from
AHA's office at 5351 South Roslyn, Englewood, Colorado

 




-9...

corporation engaged in transporting livestock who

shall detain the same in cares or compartments for

more than 28 consecutive hours without unloading the
same in a humane manner into prOperly equipped pens

for rest, water, and feeding for a period of at least
five consecutive hours, unless requested to do so as
hereinafter provided, or unless prevented by storm or
unavoidable causes which cannot be anticipated or
avoided by the exercise of due diligence and foresight,
or shall; permit the same to be crowded together without
sufficient space to stand, or so as to overlie, crush,
would, or kill each other, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor; provided, that upon the written request of
the owner or person in custody of that particular
shipment, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of loading, or other railroad
form, the time and confinement may be extended to 36
consecutive hours.

The majority of state laws requiring humane transport
are much briefer than Minnesota's however, and are often
written in the manner of the following Mississippi statute:

If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by
hand or upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any
creature in a cruel or inhumane manner, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor (Section 97-41-5).

California, Idaho, Washington and West Virginia protect
fdomestic animals" from cruel transport. The District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the 30
remaining states with transportation provisions protect,
variously, "any creature" or "any animal" ("an animal")--with
individual definitions of "animal."

Anti—cruelty statutes prohibiting inhumane transport are

listed on pages , along with the penalties for

violating these statutes.

LyThe Value gf‘gpggiﬁig Language

Cruelty, as defined in the anti-cruelty codes, usually

consists of "every act, omission or neglect* whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is cause or
permitted." Therefore, when a law does not specifically
require shelter, a judge may determine that failure to
provide it is "an omission" or "neglect" causing
-"unjustifiable physical pain" and, therefore, an act of
cruelty punishable by law. It is far better however, if

illegal acts are Specifically prohibited by statute. This

 

*In some states, every "willful act," etc.

 




-10...

need was demonstrated in a 1976 Opinion by Kansas Attorney
General Curt Schneider on whether abandonment constituted a
Violation of the state's anti—cruelty code. The statute then
read as follows:

Cruelty to animals is subjecting any animal to cruel

mistreatment or having custody of any animal and

subjecting such animal to cruel neglect.
The Attorney General noted the definition of cruelty-~as
quoted above——in jurisdictions outside of Kansas (the Kansas
code gave no definition) and determined that "the mere act of
abandoning does not per se cause unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering or death and thus does not constitute cruel
mistreatment." He concluded that the portion of the Kansas
law which stated "cruelty to animals is...having custody of
any animal and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect" does
not apply to abandonment since the law refers to those
persons "having custody" of an animal and "an abandoned
animal would not be in custody of the original owner."

Fortunately, in 1977 Kansas enacted stronger legislation
with more Specific prohibitions and requirements, as noted in
the charts. However, very generalized laws remain in other
jurisdictions, notably in Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia,
Louisiana, American Samoa and th Virgin Islands. In Georgia,
for example, the portion of the law prohibiting acts of
cruelty, enacted in 1968, now reads in its entirety:

A person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act,
omission, or neglect causes unjustifiable physical
pain, suffering, or death to any living animal.

Clearly, humane—citizens concerned about the welfare of
animals should work to: (l) preserve strong laws; (2)
promote better state and federal legislation; (3) be alert to
pr0posed changes in present laws; (4) support competent
humane officers; (5) enlarge the number of good and efficient

humane societies; (6) report all cases of cruelty to those in

authority, including the local police or sheriff, state

police or state veterinarian; (7) plan practical ways to

monitor the treatment of animals in commerce and (8) promote

humane education.

 




.f. wow“. .__‘
I," ,/"' ¢
. r

I
1
I

THE EVOLUTION OF ANT17cRUEiT? LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES/CHAPT. oNE

(£9 Gt)
>> IpAnti~€ruelty Lays Wiggput Qualifying§§haases‘9@£ym:j,

x...

{Oev4-“\\ Proaigialon gEﬁCrgelty<g
Jul

“Q//I overnment w_ Section MO.

WM
W

 

mm

Alabama ‘ 3—1—12
California Penal 597
Connecticut 53—247
District of Columﬁo‘sa 22-801’
Idaho 18—2102
Illinois 83704

Maryland 7~59

Massachusetts 272~77

- - mm «W
Michigan ‘ A

Minnesota 343.21

Mississippi 97~4l~l

Nevada 574.100

New Jersey 4:22-17; 4:22-26

New Mexico 30~18~l

New York ' Agric. & Markets Gaéc’353
North Dakota 36—21.l~02

Ohio 959.13Kj/

Oregon WJLEQQ

Rhode Island

South Carolina

q- \ 2rd V2.3 vex-\oacli df»\IQJ
Maésac,koa$€‘&s 6+6be 3112—311 m: wkou‘u‘ (DU (‘- 2 O )0“
‘ dui \memﬁs 4vphmes‘hf""ﬁtﬁ c! rNhS ch UQQJBN’ K9A¢°‘ QZLi
U ‘1 / Mu 6 dog
0

 




South Dakota

Tennessee

Vermont

Wisconsin

Canal Zone

G (lam

Puerto Rico

gowluz

39~404

13~403

948.02

6-232

141£T77

5-1652

V

L/

I Cantinued

 




ﬁr VA \\

THE EVOLUTION OF Z’.s1\I'I"i«-CRtI‘E‘IS‘I/Yv LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES/CHAPT. ONE

‘\_

,>-II. Antiggruelty Lays wigh Qualifyin3%§hg§§es Preggﬁing Prohibition

of @My
overnment Section #b- Qualifying Phrase

 

 

 

m ”-
~—
—- ‘|

Al ‘1 ‘M (:46. ‘40 TWBAA“ “LC-7'3 waond FO’OﬁJ 1)
aSﬂa I | ‘n b o a
. Na : c)" KS’U'FLQF on. an a‘rvma
M 1% j n . , :5

Arizona 13—2910 "recklessly subjects any animals or
poultry under human custody or
control to cruel mistreatment; or
...to cruel neglect"

Arkansas CﬁWM 41—2918 "knowinglyxsubjects any animal
to cruel mistreatment:...any
animal in his custody to cruel
neglect"

 

Colorado 18—9u202 "knowingly or with criminal negli—
gence overdrives,...unnecessarily
or cruelly eats, needlessly
mutilates ....”

Delaware ll~l325 "intentionally or recklessly sub-
<§€§z:7ﬂjfijjijF jects any animal to cruel mis~
treatment; or..eany animal in his
custody to cruel neglect"

Florida - ‘ "unnecessarily

act, omission, or neglect causes
unjustifiable physical pain, Suf~

$h£§5> fering, or death"

~37—
Hawaii ‘¥uf\f%il~1109 "knowingly or recklessly"

Georgia

Indiana 35—46-3~2 "knowingly or intentionally ab~
andons, neglects, or tortures"
(a vertebrate animal in his cus-
tmdy) ' L

717.2 "intentionally or negligently"

J78205‘5 aha-Has: )Amy 1352mm, “0"" gag—ﬂ” ) M a 14.1le)
wound}, will or --}-c>o"‘1"‘"'e>—c 4"“, 0047‘“ or of’Nr honkumm

motior Mermoned- @vhce Maul.

Mneoor; COAe—étchn“
’6; mamm‘
A m‘TCIU-XS Wnnﬁr/ EAL-‘7 Id

“ﬁr? (nexhﬂLu~

 




k \ ' V 1; i II Continued

Kansas . 21—4310 ”intentionally killing, injuring
I ‘ maiming, torturing or mutilatimg
any animal"

Kentucky 525.130 "intentionally or wantonly"

Louisiana 143102 "intentional or criminally negw
ligent mistreatment"

Maine l7Am5lO "intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly"

Missouri 578.055 "cruelly, in a willful and mal~
icious manner, kills, mayns,
”wound S ._ hissswggmg9.3:?ares "
"cruelly overwork...or cruelly
Marx/’5‘:

 

-———.._.. _
-w - ”a..-

' —m~_—~.ﬁz.stir¢__— ,_ 7.,_ .,

Montana 45—8~2ll "without justification..cknowingly
or negligently subjects an
animal to mistreatment or neglect"

\aw“

Nebraska g$400928“1002 "intentionally or recklesslgr
subjects any animal to cruel
mistreatmentggor...any animal
in his custﬁéy tn cruel ruaglect"

“n \.‘ barf“, I\
New Hampshire 4:8 'ﬁiaﬁg§gﬂﬁcrusﬁnaq¥xuibyE».

. mdiwlw”

“ ‘ rue/d
w.“-Fu" . \ o C 1 . .”
North Carolina l4~36dQ?/ uwiiifaliyjjfgtﬁnmhrjjgﬁarHCquxgt

Oklahoma 21:1685 "willfully or maliciously"
Pennsylvania 18~5511(c) "wantonly or cruelly"

Texas Penal 42.11 "intentionally or knowingly”
Utah 76*9—301 "intentionally or knowingly"
Virginia 18.2~392 "willfully inflicts inhumane

injury or pain...cr cruelly or
unnecessarily"

 




II Continued

 

Washington 16.52.070 '"cruelly"

West Virginia 61w8-l9 "cruelly, unnecessarily or need«
lessly" '
10 c 3" 0‘3; , .. ” w 9mg of Iawéu aﬁkmlsrw w k“ medg‘l- ~

3’ I :7 o ‘60

unnecessarily ormc ,,. ﬂ,
( ..
Ont ' M , W

a
American Samoa "willfully (sic) and maliciously"
x../

” ~ -e ﬁmaléeieeely~eﬁé~e%ee%&ﬁ4L«

Vrrginﬁfslaeeee- I,
\J'iﬁzn 1'5“!an namaliczouskl me! C‘UC’NV”

 

 

*3Throughout the charte the section number refers to the identifying

title, chapter, or article and section number of the statute in the

state law code.

mam 45%“ ‘
**The9bh1 states:"No person shall overwork, overdrive, overload,

or torture an animal.... unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly

mutilate or kill an animal...?

A

(WM

’ hQ‘l wa\“‘p1"
m I Wm . :4: Cr», Won d _________\I
73% DOW?) (5%qu (.0de 1413:. W ”(new MR" 0C meager"

I -. ' ‘1 Fﬁ‘ A-or‘hl‘f/j
OK’UdrNe’) owe—A04 ) (Deana) J ) ‘ L7H or CML or “W49
covenance’; 0.9.31.7 W17 wlesag, mu+la§~L (7" P Z .

#0 be, Ovuthwy" ‘ ‘ ‘ CanPM¢t$ atldQA.)

 

/' M.

at);

*X “_M‘ V .
m, (Dymm sled-grit, ((9~3~2.03)Md4 : " AWOM overloade- '

,&n~£¢

N me.~,\§\:1 : Overrides} Writs) overlogdd)
gjkuncmudaw&L&) CNVuuade$/*hx+vnxr CF'+0”“£ﬂt$l..

“willfully

’alies

or Cfvﬁﬂy Leak: rnefudkks cr'LLHs Gav

AU“ {Wadi-AV /
'“f f”

D C;ﬁuhcs adde&:)

1/

game/luv .
“rs/f

 




LUTIoN OF ANTIwCRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNITED Estates/CHAPT. ONE

#5 f @

IIQﬁrﬂi—Crgglty LENS Jhiéh Rquire Provision 913 Food and W3ter<

A. Laws without qualifying phrases.

Government Section No.

—--““’
M

Alabama. 3-l—l;E%’
Alaska*’ liséﬂf499%fj*¢—v
Arkansas Com 41——2953\~I/
California Egg-Penal 597
Connecticut 53-247
Delaware ll«1325
District of Columbia 22~80f§7
Florida 919, 1N7) 828. 13V
Idaho 18.2102
Illinois 8~703
Kansas 21~4310
Maryland 27~5¢C/
Massachusetts 272-7iﬁ/
.4$E%Hﬁﬁwk*/ ﬂgEEEEQ

Minnesota ~348.1J

Mississippi 97~4l~§§'97—4l~ﬂvé 97~4l~9

Missouri 578.060
Nevada 574.100

New Jersey 4:22n26

 




New Mexico
New York
North Dakota
Ohio

Oklahoma
Oregon
Bennaylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia

Wisconsgnﬂwm

30~18»1(Ax¢/

Agric. & Markets‘ﬂ-éQV353; 35QW/

3qﬁgl.1~02
959;13
21.1685
xen.896*57 *

lB-SSllGQHV’

4‘1‘2W/

47‘1“40V/

40- 1- 2w his ‘13“
39-40%5 and 39’406V/
13~403¢x

18,2-392

16.52.1oob/

6l~8~ 19V

948.13

 

/:::1:r:ion L
Wyoming.

Guam

 

\§.Applies to confined animals only.

4crlb u ' 6;. eqnmrenﬁ c~a~
Wig: . 32.)“: \n ’lkc/ case, .9" x I 7)
give Oregon readsa ‘4’”; l C any ao-ma'l ho (£qu «:5,

er e an; . m p or. 1
l a.“ ":gﬂ‘énmbwiﬂmcﬁl “E5041 (it-ma; ﬁrm 2:“ Bxkzbskon ~51. . nan/:34

/ N "' ta
untceS-sar7 \ca~:+bnan(.¢.ﬂ £4.11 %n¢ylv¢n I
q .
QJsManLQ/l c‘lr-‘W‘g J

W \ kc, k... fti-u-‘res
5m bestow MA (tum-m '. “ mace-$56!“?
ii I I)

 




‘ III.Anti~Cruelty Law_ﬂﬁhich Require Pro

3"-

Wafer;

7';

B. Laws with qualifying phrases.

Food and

f...

l9- Hal)

—-
q-
.-

The Michigan law states:

"Whoever...having the charge or custody of any animal, either
as owner or otherwise...willfully fails to provide food, drink
..." whall be fined and/or imprisoned. LEmghMTJ awldUQo)

GOVERNMENT

Colorado

District of Columbia

Florida
Hawaii

Iowa

Kentucky

Maine

Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan

Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

New Hampshire

 

SECTION NO.

18~9- 202V

22—801

Fermi}? 11-- new

717.2s/

525.130

l7A-—Sld\+/

27~59(3)

272~77

agﬁihi
Aﬁﬁﬁéax'152Jzz

578.060
45-8~211

28—1001;28~1002

644:8V

QUALIFYING PHRASE

 

"knowingly or with
criminal negligence"

"unnecessarily”
"unnecessarily"
"knowingly or recklessly”

"intentionally or neg—
ligently

"intentionally or wan~
tonly"

"intentionally, knowinom
ly or re kic slaﬂ'

"unnecessarily"
"unnecessarily"
"willfully"

"unnecessarily" (any

ggmestic animal)

"without justification...
knowingly or negligentlv"

"intentionally or rack~
lessly"

"negligently'éepriggs_e§
causes—te4be—éeﬁrés%fkg

 




III Continued
NEW Jersey 4:22“l7%é4~22~26v/ "unnecessarily"
New Mexico ' 30~18~l(B) "unnecessarily"
North Carolina 14—360V’ ‘ "willfully"
ﬁkede Island 4—1m2 "unnecessarily"
Texas Penal 42°11‘?/ ”intentionally or
knowingly faiie on»

reasonably"

76»9~3OD§§' > "intentionally or knowM
ingly"

Vermont 13~403 "unnecessarily”

,c

Washington 16.52.07dv/ "cruelly...unnecessarily

West Virginia 61—8mlgw/ _ "WiiifUIIY" ($ié1

(a v :3 i" ‘2- 0‘3 " U‘hnﬂ 22‘; (or. I \1

I u! I 0
Wyoming LL~%@éHﬁ?v %ﬁhﬁH&ﬂﬁ§weee~makeeeeeg
' K,

E r / E a i H ‘ |~c ' [.2

Puerto Rico 5-1652 ' "unnecessarily"

 

w ‘ Mannw. .. 10cm; +0 (rm/rote."
*Applies to confined animals only.

ind-9 .
**Texas and Utahﬂrequire ”necessary ‘

specify "wate "

H H 1

care out do not

+ The law requires "necessary sustenance" ("susﬁﬁhﬂnce" in
New Hampshire). /ﬂ 5; \x\

 




THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI~CRUELTY LAWS OF-THE UNITED STATES/CHAPT. ONE

Qet:-) <;;§§EL-J
IV. ANTI-CRUELTY LAWSEWHICH REQUIRE THE PROVISION OF SHELTER 4‘
>

A.. Laws without qualifying phrases.

GOVERNMENT

Alabama

California
Colorado
Connecticut
Idaho
Illinois
Kansas
Minnesota
Nevada

New Mexico

New Yorkéﬂific. & Market

North Dakota
Ohio

Oklahoma
Pennsylvania
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Virginia
Wisconsin

Canal Zone

 

f

§:§§§£53*-———-———7\

SECTION NO.

3-1-12

[jg-Penal S97

18-9-202
53-247
18-2102
8-703
21-4310
343.21

574.1zdi '

BO-IB-BV’

asév’

36-21.1-02
959.1iv/
21-1685
lB-SSch)
47-1-40
40-1-2

39-40 +

W 18.2-392

 




IV. continued

Guam

Puerto Rico

 

W 457- '3 rend-5 DJ 'RDM‘V‘J‘S:

*Applies to confined animals only. (Ehé/Ohio lawvstateswr"No person
shall...impound or confine an animal without shelter from wind, rain,
snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected that
the animal would otherwise become sick or in some other way suffer.")

+The law requires "necessary sustenance" without specific reference to
H H
shelter.

 




,/

B. Laws with qualifying phnaégs. The/District of Columbia <ﬁ*dukf
22.. 90) Wstates : “(,QMOENQX‘ “ 1""Z3nnﬁmss'safﬂy aeaﬂs “+13 W‘ﬁdfi' . .3) an arﬁmel “(:55
a Mech‘on ’Qbm 'H‘L “Maw ” 6M“ 4" M“, “‘d °' ""1051” '
A . .. Shea-Rf 0“ ‘P . ' . (Emphaxr: addzdb
Government Sectlon No. Qualifylng Phrase

c-I—‘I'

 

 

 

Delaware IF'1325 "intentionally or recklessly"
District of Columbia 22~801 "unnecessarily"
Florida 828.12 "unnecessarily"

W

Hawaii «sq—Vll—llOQVr "knowingly or recklessly"

Maine l7~A~510 "intentionally, knowingly or
‘recklessly"

Maryland 27459 "unnecessarily"
Massachusetts 272-77 "unnecessar%ly”
Michigan ﬁgﬂﬂm&»7‘2 *’ "willfully"

Mississippi 97—41-bg/ "unjustifiably"
Missouri 578.060 "unnecessarily"

Montana 45—8-211 "without justification...
knowingly or negligently"

Nebraska 28-1001;28~1002 "intentionally or recklessl5ﬂ'

New Hampshire 644:8 "negligently"depgéges—eag

:- ' a.“ s“ '1

New Jersey 4:22~l7:4:22m26 "unnecessarily"
North Carolina l4—360k/ "willfully"
Rhode Island 4—1—2 "unnecessarily"

Texas; 42.11 "intentionally or knowingly
fails unreasonably"

Utah "intentionally or knowingly"

 




IV B Continued

Vermont 13~403 "unnecessarily“
Washington ' 16.52;O7O "unnecessarily"

West Virginia 6l~8~§y/ _ "wilfully" (sic)
, 9' 3—203
Wyomlng :E%*5$ﬁhﬁ?’ "unnecessarily"

. 7 bunch \4— l8\ “ uJTH-RA Cid-19W WW...
\lﬂ" n 1’5 lgﬁnL—o Prnurdbgﬁd

v

+The law requires"necessary sustenance", without specific
reference to "shelters"

a /7  } V2 (Q344i£IL#Z/ an
ix ‘

4’4 4 l ’

i .f [~3v. ' ./,

W 12.2049 “49%? v
V Gx'

 




S/CBAPTg ONE

V. AntiwCruelty Laws Which Do Net Require the ProviSion of

Shelter

Alaska
Arkansas

Georgia

Indiana
Louisiana

Oregon

American Samoa

Vivi? 33-; “"443

 




THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI~CRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNIﬂD STATES/EHAPT ONE

VI. ENTImCRUELTY LAWS WHICH REQUIRE

THE PROVIEION OF "NECESSARY

SUSTENANCE" ;§;§QQ;TION TO FOOD, WATER AND SHELTER

A. Laws without qualifying phrases.

3.403

The Vermont law states: "A

person who... deprives of neceseary suetenance...any animal"

shall be imprisoned or fine&, or both.

GOVERNMENT
California
Coloraéo
Connecticut
District of Columbia
Idaho
Marylano
Massachueette
Michigan
Mississippi
Nevada

New Jersey
New Mexico
New York

Ohio

Gregon

Rhode Island
Vermont
Virginia

Guam

SECTION NO.
Penal 597
18-9~202

53%247-

22—801

18~2102

27-59

272w77

qﬂgeﬁaﬁ '1S:u=bl
97m4l~1:97~41~9*
574.100
4:22-17;4:22~26
30~18~l*

Agric.& Markets Code 353
959.13

167.860*

1*2

113—403

18.2—392
ML” 5‘1 57/

 




VI continued

Mg 0° de“ ‘5‘” °‘”
_ .~ '— 7T:_

GOVERNMENT SECTION NO. QUALIFYING PHRASE

Iowa 717.2* "intentionally or
ligently"

, "unnWJaf‘iIﬂ "
Washington 16.52.070 “creek

I;

West Virginia 61-8~l9* "wilfully" (sic)

H
\fpomfr‘xﬁ Ca-3r~203 .
- “r W

1':

u . u e55“
lan~omelj ) Vﬁnef. ‘ ___,‘/‘Q_,/

 

These states specify necessary sustenace as well as food and

’water but fail te,in addition/require shelter.

,A

,/’ ~'

g“ ,/1 “Twat ’1 V1.1 eke-e5:

0r ow4ix.or(lkucfb>bgw
*FMLco/ M dn~(~‘0(a(¢2#/ mfj dO/MJFL. aﬂ-mal-w
ﬁvrwewan-mu 3.x gram M
‘PF-cTC/A/ q/JOnf'ffv] 0‘: Manta, ‘ (NW
(Aqfrfub (7P hLCQﬂcy-y \S‘Uks \ \/

w ' -
‘ W7! ”Thu” lacju‘ﬁ 04? a
[h a ._ . ” Li:\‘a\&$ add-L(§\ - '1

’ - WA 3
. as \éwx) (0‘3”1o‘gb PM: at; int) ”Have-P
.flj ﬂ " W111 ‘4‘: @QIMC‘ ) W- \

“A“ man (/OMMA" C :n \ .. . &er.vks an m‘ch 6'“
\ «9m (iLﬁ‘hC‘M’T/ W —- ”‘41- m,.ka3 an, C—Wﬂt’
”W Tor "\Swwdrn C—CJ— BN1 ' i “ —Q 1
meta—55 ‘I 096M cm ram: N W45; .5,
Card (11.8 ,1» wIﬂY’I—M- (frnf‘lf' ﬁend?) drmm, Or"

“db - J)
0‘“ . .. . .

Mﬂyﬂv>
ﬂw‘

 

 

 




THE EVOLUTION OF ANTIWCRUELTYF/LZWJS OF THE UNITED STATES/CRAFT. (ENE

VII. I‘M]? ~~CﬁRUELTY LAWS PROI-llB ITING ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS BY

THEIR OWNERS

OR CUEVI‘ OD IANS

A. Abandonment of animals prohibiteé without reference to ddﬁ?
(nesticity or infirmity of the animal and without qualifying

phrases.

GOVERNMENT
California
learada
Connecticut
‘Idaha
Illinois
Lansas
Minnesota
Nevaﬂa

New York
Narth Dakota
Pennsylvania
Rhcde Island
,_ Vi%giﬁia ék'
Wigconsin

Guam

«rm

SECTION NO.
Pﬁmﬁi $37f
18~9m202
53~247

18m2109

le4310
343.21
574,100
355
36.2l.l~02
l8~5511
4ml+25

948.15

Ill-533%

 




VII Continueﬁ

 

1/;
I

B. Abandonment of animais_pxohibiteé, withaut reference to
domeaticity or infirmity, with qualifying phraseg.

SECTION NO. QURLIFYING PHRASE

-.. ”—a~.—‘__‘

-~—._.~

_.__.V._-:&_L:U2Cu_g " anbjT‘TD

Arizona ' 13~2910 "recklessly"

 

District of Columbia 22—802 "cruelly"

Indiana .. ' "knowingly 0r intentiorw
ally"

525.130 . ”intentionally or wan”
tonly”

Maine ‘ l7—%~510 ”intentionally, knowingly
or recklessly"

Magsachugﬁtts ~~ ”willfully"
Montana "knowingly or negligent-y"

Nebraﬁka 28—lOOlﬁ28—1002 "intentiunally or reckm
- lessly"

New Hampshire 644:8 "negligently"

{Oregon. 167.860 "cruelly"

,,J -,M Rhode Igland * 4-1—3 “cruelly"

South Carolina 47~l~50 "cruelly"
Texas Penal 42.11 , "intentionally or know~
ingly abandons unreasonm

ably"

Utah‘ 76~9~30l ”intentionally or kruxw.
ing.ly N

Vermont ' 13~403 "cruelly"

Washington ’ 16,52,070 "cruellY"

.93—nla3
Wyoming ~Lg—34—%%2 ~ "cruelly"

 




VII B. Continued

Puerto Rico ~W7- "@eliberately or with”
Gut reasanabla cause"

6gp

A
/ ' TH, KWCX? ‘009 €515"3%\ﬂa+€>53 AK‘DNOM Bjddﬁ o4: cxue/Hx.’ +5
anamab NW. ~~ H, M4u+cmll7 or won‘t-0N gﬁe at; M7 aqmq/ 7b 0“ W864
(>ch of“ UVFAQS MRNWW ﬂat?“ QLMOMW‘fi.”

 




C. Abandonment of maimed, disabled,

VII. Continued

 

infirm,

diseased animals

9&11 prohibited, qualifying language as noted.

GOVERNMENT

Aaaekaﬁ/

Diatrict of Columbia
Florida

Michigan

Minnesota

Nevada

New Jersey

New York

North Dakota
Oklahoma

Rhode Island
South Carolina

South Dakota

Vermont
West Virginia

Canal Zone

SECTION NO.

117497§QQ~£
WED

- 9
22‘81m

828.13

Quad 250 51;)
g§.2q7

343.21

574.110
4:22~20;4:22~26
Agrio. & Markets
CodéV355
36~21.1~02

21.1686

4—ln4

40~1~12

13~404
6le8~l9

@1232

QUALIFYING LANGUAGE

abandgg:awidfaaﬁfed dom~
eatiE aniﬁétfartg die"

see footnote
abandon "to die"
mi ’va‘ho‘OH/l
see footnote
see footnote

abandon "to die in a
public place"

see footnote

see footnote
see footnote
abandon "to die"
see footnote

"willfully abandon to
die"

abandon "to die"

 

Tia law pﬁhobiting abandonment ofzﬁdé
aimiiar to the~éeééewéﬁﬁ/Ok1ahoma statate?/thbﬁbywwt“'h“¢‘“$4b“b“n¢
"Any person or peraons being the owner or possessor, or having charge

abled or sick animals is

 




VII. C. Continueﬂ

or custody of a maimed, diséésed, disabled, or infirm animal,
who abandong such animal,~dr leavea it t0 die in the street,
roaﬁ or public place more than three hours after he receives
notice ﬁhat it is left Hisabled, is guilty of a migdemeanor.”

 




VII Continued

 

Abandonment of domestic animals prohibited, qualifying language
as noteﬁo

GOVERNMENT $EC'I'ION NOB QUALIFYING MNGUAGE

$ﬂﬁ$$ﬁ Llwh%9¥%} \ awful to abandon a

W. ‘ Uh\a~uwQ;\ +0 Qbmdow ”an
Delawale 11"}.325 animal Orﬂmadﬁ uhdv‘ one.“
CQSHDdY “

Maine l7wA~510 unlawful to keep or
leave "a domestic anima
on an uninhabited or
barren island lying off
the ceast of Maine during
the month of December,
January, February or
March without groviﬂing
sufﬁicient food ans
proper shelter"

m wk}... ’0‘ “it? ab‘chLovg “a do
Maryland 331—4“: (3+) 6.61m d0mm+§g amm‘Z'?“

Missouri 578.060 "cruelly” abandons a
domestic animal "to ﬂie"

. Unkwﬁ/l 41: abs-no‘ovc Q dos)
Cth 959.01 <3b m~ dmﬁmﬂk_anwxa\.

Oklahoma 21—1691 unlawful to "deposit
along the public high»
ways or public streets...
or in any public place"
any domestic animal "with
the intention of abandon~
ing " it

1

Tennessee unlawful to abandon "any
animal of the canine or
feline species on public
lands or rights of way"

 




Virginia

.9”
t- » .1”

;/V’
A
f
.
/

18.2-392

XII DvContinued

unlawful to abandon

any "domesticated animal
in any public place in-
cluding the right-of-way
of any public highway,
road or street or on the
property of another"

 




THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTYMLAWS OF THE UNITED STATES/CHAPT, ONE

VIII. KINDS OF ANIMALS PRQTECTED’ IN ANTI~CRUELTY LAWS

a—p—v/

A. Any non—human living creature or I'any animal" protected.
States specifying “any animal" define "animal" to include
every living creature exCept a human being.

GOVERNMENT SECTION NO. OF
DEFINITION

Arkansas Ckhn. 41-2962 e<;f§f§§%g /
California [Te—.— Penal 593d) 10““
Colorado 18-9-201
Connecticut l7~22
District of Columbia 22-813
Hawaii f:&_—~Penal 37~7ll-1100
Idaho 18-2112
Illinois 8—702.01
Maine ‘ 17A-510
Maryland 27—62
”'Michigan [:¢:__Penal v . , .
'750dﬂ59‘757nifb
Minneseta 343.20
Mississippi 97—41-1
Missouri 578.055
Nevada 574.050
New Jersey 4:22é15 ‘
New York .__i__Agric. & Markets GodéPBSO
North Carolina 14-360
North Dakota 36-21.l-01
raregen~¢ l647850-£~

Rhode Island

 




South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee

Vermont

Washington

V/ -W¥oméngdafww

.‘.

Canal Zone

VIII A. Continued

47-1-10
40-1-1
39-401
13-401
16.52.010
Ei—94-%9£’¢~~

 




A V. VIII. Continued

"Any animal" or "an animal" protected with a definition of
of "animal" as given. '

GOVERNMENT

~A\a6ka

Kansas

Kentucky

Nebraska

New Hampshire

Oklahoma

eases.

>6”

Wisconsin

Puerto Rico

SECTION NO. OF DEFINITION
DEFINITION “ﬂ
qa vw‘bmk ‘N‘. m ‘5
\‘o b‘. '40 a \namon 59523) MQJM‘f’IhCJVdc, {351“
21-4313 "every living vertebrate
except a human being"

446.010 "every warmblooded
living creature except
a human being"

28-1001 "a domesticated living
creature and a wild hvﬂlj
creature previously €ap—
tured"

"a domestic animal, a
household pet or a wild
animal in captivity"

21-1685 "any animal in subjugation

or captivity, whether wild
. or tame"
W “guxzmjgkﬁgﬁﬁyf
[Er-Penal 42.11 "a domesticated liv1ng

creature and wild living
creature previously cap-
tured"

//r— "every living warmblooded
/ creature except a human
being"

"any equine, bovine
animal, sheep , goat,
swine, dog, cat or any
other domestic animal or
a bird or any animal in
E captivity under the con-
\\ trol of any person"

/

\601 “395°

\h : “\Shau Jo; CWde +0
1 7"Mode, Jewels 0‘ 4‘3“” -.

 




VIII Continued

 

“Any animal" or "an animanﬂwprotected, without a definition of
"animal;"

Alabama ._. Montana
Alaska”(l1:40?4801 QM” New Mexico
Arizona Ohio
Delaware Pennsylvania

Georgia Utah

\
\

. ' . *L N“\\\
Indiana _ American Samoa "any useful east, fowl )
or animal! /

/

Louisiana mus-Rt @ Rp-i-nok
Guam

Massachusetts

”I“ Virgin Islands
61:!” E
Harr‘ML/ 9‘

we, NW

D. Domestic animals only protected.

 

 

 

 

ﬁwoﬂWAus '1?ROTWECTE33
BEFIN¥$ION/‘~

GOVERNMENT SECTION NO.

Alaska~ kl7&67499- '
os—ereature£_.

protester"any domestic animal

or fowl, or any dog or cat"

West Virginia preteeeg/"any horse or other
domestic animal"

 




VIII

PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS "

GOVERNMENT & SECTION
NO. OF STATUTE VIOLATED

Colorado 18-9-202

”J
A
J

Florida 828.12

828.13

Penal 42.11

11-1325

Crim. £Hﬁk§2>

,. (533-2918:
ng§9””321—2953

16-12-4

Delaware

Arkansas

Georgia

17-A-510

Missouri 578.060
578.055

New Hampshire 644:8

PENALTY FOR VIOLATION

months
months

from $500 and/or 6
to sgooo and/or 24

up to $§000 and/or
3 years

up to

up to $§000 and/or

3 years

up to

up to $2000 and/or

1 year
up to $5000 and/or
2 years

up to $5000 and/or

1 year

(a) up to $1000 and/or up
to 12 months in county jail;

or
(b)from 6 months to 12 months

in a state or county correc—
tional institution

up to $1000 and/or up to 1 year

up to $5000 and/or up to
1 year
$50 and/or up to 3 months

up to $5000 and/or up to
1 year

dd.éd‘1

Continued

SECTION NO. OF
PENALTY

18-1~106
828.12
775.082
828.13
775.082
775.084
Penal 12.21
11-4206

11-4207

Crim. 41—1101

41-901

17-10-3

17—A-1301
17-A-1252

560.016
578.055

651:2

 




VIII Continued

 

North Dakota 36—21.l-02 up to $1000 and/or 36.21.1~11
up to 1 year 12.1-32-01

Tennessee 39-404 up to $1000 and/or 39-105
up to 1 year

39-406 up to $1000 and/or 39-105
up to 1 year

39-423 from $2.00 to $50
aﬁd7or up to 30 days
Virginia 18.2-392 Class 1: up to $ 000 18.2~ll
an 0 up to 12 months

Class 3: up to $500

39—423

18-2102 up to $1000 and/or 18—2102
~ up to 6 months
18—2109 up to $300 and/or 18~113
up to 6 months

 

 

 

 

 

 

___,._-——- »_.._N_~_
—__‘ \\
x

. \35-qb*3-2. (amend-V96 andz me an acidf‘h‘m be. 0
Indiana ‘ ﬁ1-4319. ap«to*$teeﬁ—ang—6*months=l 35-50-3-3

35-50-5-2 ta?

 

W \MWOO __

Kansas 21—4310 up to $1000 and/or up to 21—4503
6 months 21-4502

Nevada 574.100 up to $1000 and/or up to 193.150
574.110 6 months; or a fixed period
574.120 of work for the benefit of the
community

Nebraska 28—1002 up to $1000 and/or up t 28-106
6 months ~

Oregon 167.850 up to $1000 and/or up to 161.635
167.860 up to 6 months 161.615

Maryland 27-59 up to $1000 and/or 21—4503
up to 90 days 21-4502
27-60 up to $100 27-60
440qu $0.4 arm—um “F +9 qyooo <wa 31 -— “1064040
Arizona 13-2910 up to $750 and/or 13-802
up to 4 months in the 13—707
Ki custody of the department

h 9,3403 \ of corrections 6— 3_ 203
Mean >_ v9 “70% 00¢ [of x? 1b (a mon‘H'kS
womb“ ,‘O‘SS 0" Mice” ’H‘L

*Aﬁagﬂmcﬁwc ‘b‘PM‘59A W7 loo... a‘3Qthd Mice. his ES?Q\P€.CUO?GP1
108:5 \Ww‘oUl 61 warms at m o-C-thse, cammmeal.

 




VIII Continued

959.13 u§_ '“$750 and/or 959.99
upt‘" 90 days 2929.21

959.01 up $100 959.99
2929.21

Oklahoma 21-1685 up to $500 or 21-1685
up to 1 year in county jail
or up to 5 years in peniteniary
21-1686 up to $500 and/or 4 21-10
up to 1 year in county jail
21-1691 from $10 to $100 and/or 21—1692
up to 30 days in county jail

Kentucky 525.130 up to $500 and/or 534.040
up to 12 months 532.090

Massachusetts 272-77 up to $500 and/or 272—77
up to 1 year

-,~’

New York 2:” Agric. & up to $500 and/or up to 353
Markets 353 1 year
355 r-‘I’Aj up to $500 and/Or 355
44.50 1 year .
356 “V g} up to $500 and/or 356
up to 1 year

“k“"Virgin Islands 14-181 up to $500 and/or
‘ " up to 1 year

4-1-2;4-1-3: from $50 to $500 and/or
4-1-4;4—1-26 up to 11 months

California Penal 597 up to $500 and/or Penal 19
597f up to 6 months in county
jail

Mississippi 97-41-1 from $15 to $500 and/or 99-33-3
up to 6 months 99-19—31
97-41-7 from $10 to $100 and/or 97-41-13
97-41—9 from 10 to 100 days 97-41-13

Montana 45-8-211 up to $500 and/or up to 45-8-211
6 months

 




VIII Continued

 

/" ,

North Carolina 14-360 , up ”to $500 and/or 14-360
qu to ...... 6 months
14-361.1 up to $200 14-361.1

Minnesota 343.21 up to $500 and/or 609.03
, , _] '511.« up to 90 days
M on tantr— ‘* *- W~~-45--8-~23;1W* WWup’~-to"- $500wand/ohm ..._1___~_.-7._-__m._.1 _:4 57: 8-21 1,
up to 6Wmonths

Alabama 3—1—12 up to $500 and may in 3-1-12
addition be imprisoned
up to 3 months
23.1%!
Michigan - up to $500 and/or
up to 3 months
up to $100 and/or 0;};3
up to 90 days Jot/fob“

Illinois 8—703; up to $500 8-7151/38§ 1005-911
8-704 < ‘f giggggy
Puerto Rico 5-1652 $300 and/or 5—1659
6 months

./

Utah ‘ 76-9-301 $299 and/or 76-3—301?///
* 6 months 76—3—204

Pennsylwghia 1875511 $300 and/or 18-1105
. ' = 90 days 18—1101
K» 18-106

Connecticut 53-247 up to $250 and/or 537247
up to 1 year

District of 22-801; ' up to $250 and/or 22—801
Columbia 22—802 up to 1 year
227812 from $10 to $250 and/or 227812‘
up to 1 year

New Jersey 4:22-17: up to $250 and/or 4:22-17
4:22-20 up to 6 months
4:22-26 up to $250 4:22—26

 




Vermont 13~403;

13-404

16.52.070
16.52.100

Washington

W¥amsﬁg Li—s4-402—

30-18-1

New Mexico

West Virginia 61-8-19

Louisiana

South Carolina

South Dakota
Canal Zone

31 ka

\

14~597b
14-597;
Ctr-rm?

Amwcan Qmoa [5-4109-

uP

to

up to

uP
UP

to
to

VIII Continued

$200 and/or
1 year

$150 and/or
60 days plus costs

of prosecution

fx°m~$lQ-Ee—$ieowaﬁs%ee-
Wear-ii-

up to $100 and/or
up to 6 months

from $5 to $100 and
may in addition be im%/
prisoned up to 6 months

“P
up

uP
uP

uP
up
uP
“P

UP

to
to

to
to

to
to
to
to

to

$100 and/or
90 days

$100 or
30 days

$100 or
30 days
$100 or
30 days

$100 and/or
30 days

$100 and/or
30 days

x)? +0 $25 'md’or

13—403

16.52.165

14:102

903.1 1

47-1-40
47-1-40
47-1-70

14-597:
15-162

|594bao

/11f40.4 0

14-597a

 




VIII Continued

forfeiture up to $200; 948.15agﬁfj
if intentional or 939.52
negligent, up to 939.51
$10,000 and/or

up to 9 monthsf//

naaddition. the district

attorney may apply for a

temporary or permanent

injunction to restrain violators.

M

 

 

 




'ANALYSIS OF PRESENT ANTI—CRUELTY LAWS

_ _A detailed analysis of the current anti—cruelty laws in the
'fifty States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the
Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands and the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico shows that the public conscience generally agrees that all
animals have the right to (l) protection from cruel treatment, such
as is described in detail in Section l of Henry Bergh's 1867 law;

(2) protection from abandonment; (3) protection from poisoning? and
(4) the« rovision of food, water and shelter.
vdvd ‘*§ZProtection from Cruel Treatment

As the following charts show, there are 29 laws which stipulate
that cruel treatment must have been committed willfully, maliciously
or cruelly, etc. (See Charts I, II). State statutes with qualifiers
such as l'intentionally,” ”negligently,” ”maliciously,” or ”knowingly”
define the mental state of the person charged. Statutes without
qualifiers make offenders strictly liable for commission of an
offense without regard to mental state. Please note that terms such
as ”cruelly” and ”unnecessarily” which characterize the circumstances
of the offense committed muSt be distinguished from the qualifiers
”intentionally,” ”negligently,“ ”maliciously,” or “knowingly” which
describeﬁculpable mental state-* In court it is often difficult to
prove willfulness or malice, and so, in practice, the use of such
qualifiers can lead to the acquittal of offenders who might justly
have been convicted of committing cruelty to animals under the laws
of other jurisdictions drafted without qualifiers. Moreover, pro—
visions witﬁfqualifiers can be interpreted as a license to inflict
any degree of suffering on any number of animals provided that the

motives of the person inflictingthe pain are not sadistic. It is

as .
this interpretation that is applied to scientific research and to

scientific demonstrations in schools.

From state to state the qualifiers are not equally restrictive,
For example, in Delaware Cruelty is prohibited when committed
”intentionally or recklessly”; in Hawaii: ”knowingly or recklessly*h

and in Maid? ”intentionally, knowingly or recklessly.” Humane

 

*We are indebted to Professor David S. Favre and attorney—veterii‘
narian Dr. Murray Loring for their valuable insights on this topib.
Their noteworthy new publication Animal Law discusses a variety of
topics, including the problems of cruelty statutes, and provides a
clear explanation, with case support, of the legal principles involved.

 

 




_2_

agents contacted in these states believe that in relation to the
laws of other states with qualifiers, the addition of the phrase
”or recklessly” contributes to a comparatively strong anti—cruelty
law by specifically prohibiting suffering inflicted due to reckless—
ness, that is, because due caution was not exercised. (”Reckless”
is defined in Webster's Third New International Dictionary 19
to mean ”careless, neglectful, thoughtless; marked by a lack of
caution; marked by a lack of foresight or consideration.”fk However,
the Delaware statute, quoted in full as follows, belies the view
of the humane agents: ”A person is guilty of cruelty to animals
when he intentionally or recklessly: (1) Subjects any animal to
cruel mistreatment; or (2) Subjects any animal in his custody to
cruel neglect} or (3) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
another person without legal privilege or consent of the owner.
Paragraphs (1) and (2) are inafplicable to accepted veterinary
practices and activities carried on for scientific research.”
According to the Department of Justice, State of Delaware, ”the terms

cruel mistreatment and cruel neglectf{..cover the unjustifiable
infliction of pain with the act having some malevolent or mischievous
motive——there must be something willful or wanton about it.’I
(Italics ours.)

In 2l states and the District of Columbia, experimental animals

used in scientific institutions are specifically excluded from the

protect ve coverage of the anti—cruelty laws. These states are:

91‘“)
Alabama,ADelaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Kansas, Kentucky,

Maine, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevadﬁ, New Jersey, New York, South Dakota,
Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin. In most

of these states, the exemptions are constructed in language

similar to Missouri's law in which it is written that the protective
provisions of the animal welfare statute ”shall not be construed

to prevent or interfere ﬂvth any scientific experiments or inxgstié:
gations” (Section 578.055). In Utah the statute explicitlykboth
painful research and painful animal husbandry practices: ”It is

a defense to the prosectuion under this section that the conduct

war
of the actor towards the animalAby a licensed veterinarian using

M“?-
WW

l r '
*The manner in which these laws are cha¢ed 18 based on a common
sense reading of the statutes, not on case history. Citizens should

investigatewwhether definitions of any terms which appear in their
state's anti—cruelty code have been established by the courts when

no statutory definition is provided.

.zw'

 




-3-

accepted veterinary practice*3’or directly related to a bona fide
experimentation for scientific research provided that if the animal
is to be destroyed, the manner employed/ﬂyﬂl not be unnecessarily
cruel unless directly necessary to the veterinary purpose or
scientific research involved” (Section 76—9—301). As drafted,
exemptions for scientific research in Alaska and Vermont call for
the ”humane” treatment of animals. The Vermont statute states that
nothing within the anti—cruelty law ”shall be construed to prohibit
or-iaerfere with the use of animals for scientific research by
competent research men if done in a humane manner with a minimum
of suffering to the animals” (Section 13—403).

Although Pennsylvania's anti—cruelty law does not contain
such exemptions, it does permit the issuance of search warrants to
the police or humane society agents to enter places where it is
believed cruelty to animals is being committed, with the following
prohibition: ”Provided, That no search warrant shall be issued
under the proivisons of this section which shall authorize any
policeman, or agent or other person to enter upon or search premises
where scientific research is being conducted by, or under the
supervision of, graduates of duly accredited scientific schools or
where biological products are being produced for the care 0; pre—
vention of disease.” (Section 18—5511, Act of June 3, 1911, as

amended?) <:§E§:%
\/ v

Provision 9f Food, Water and Shelter

Seventeen states, the District-of Columbia indfguam prohibit
”a,

both depriving an animal of ”necessary sustenance' and failing to
provide ”food and water ” or ”food, water and shelter.” (See Chart
VI.) Several require the provision of ”necessary sustenance” without
further reference to food, water or shelter. The application of

the phrase llnecessary sustenance” varies from state to state but

refers t-’ minimally, the provision of food and water or, in some
states, Aﬁa)gtfficient amount of wholesome food, or to such additional
provisions as shelter, adequate exercise, sanitary living conditions,

J

*¥”Accepted veterinary practice” includes performing, without anesthesia
such procedures as dehorning of cattle at any age, docking the tails
of pigs and sheep, and castration.

/

 




_4»_

adequate space for confined animals and necessary veterinary care.

In New York, for example, Secton 353 of the anti—cruelty code
states in part: ”A person who...deprives any animal of necessary
sustenance, food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it
such sustenance or drink...or in any way furthers any act of cruelty
to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, ihz‘ ilty
of a misdemeanor...” (Emphasis added) In the case of People y,
O'Rourke, 369 N.Y.S. 2d 335 (1975), motion denied, 83 Misc. 2d
51, 37l N.Y.S. 2d 603, the defendants were charged with violating
Section 353 for allowing a limping horse to continue to work without
providing it with necessary veterinary care. The court noted the
definition of ”sustenance'l in Webster‘s Third New International
Dictionary (13"): ”the act of supplying or being supplied with
the necessaries of life.” The court also cited the defZEEiEEliﬂi<EEi:>
”torture” or ”cruelty”: ”every act, omission or neglect whereby
unjustifiable physical qué’ suffering or death is caused or permitted”
and determined that failing to provide the horse with necessary
medical attention constituted neglect under Section 353.* (Italics

ouﬁ.) 0;

Because khe varying interpretations, statutes requiring only

”necessary sustenance” are, for the purposqal f this chapter, inter—
preted as requiring the furnishing of food.an§:water. Those laws
lare marked With a ”+” in the accompanying charts. Failure to
provide food and water (sustenance) is a violation of law in forty—
six states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone

and Guam.

g

"I 2;;- '3 3. .z 53..»
Anti—cruelty statutes in khirteen states and Guam enable any

private citizen to relieve a neglected animal impounded on the
property of another person by entering into the place of confinement
to supply the animal with food and water, or by removing the animal

to feed and water it. The major provisions of these laws are noted

on pages

 

*Illinois requires ”veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering”;
Maine: ”necessary medical attention”; Maryland: ”necessary veterinary
care'; Pennsylvania: “veterinary care';“?uerto Rico: ”medical or

veterinary treatment if needed.‘l

 




_5_

6/

‘shd
Tw y—three statutes require shelter withoutbgualifyingf ggfaiiiéalakﬂ

A
Twﬂgty— three require that failure to provide shelterA heweverumeég£§r~

“(we/NU Con‘h war-UL L+ Wales 010 nokqp LC“P?C.a ck Fiﬁ“ “LI whe, He: - o mvu

A of these ~ Hawaii, Mississippi, New Mexico’, North Carolgina, Oregon,
Tennessee and West Virginia — prohibit depriving an animal of
necessary sustenance, which the courts have ruled includes shelter
(as well as food and water:) in each state but Oregon, Hawaii and
Mississippi, where the courts have not yet ruled on the issue. Lest
od?think only of the need for protection from the cold in such

states as Alaska, remember also the need for shelter from driving rain

1“
and wind, and from the hot, beating sun/Pi/such states as Mississippi

and Louisiana, where‘ﬁhelter is not specifically called for. Every
jurisdiction should require shelter in its anti—cruelty code.

Throughout the following food, water anddﬁhéter charts, note
that more than one requirement for the prdﬁyﬁion of these items may
exist in a single state due to separate laws for confined and non—
confined animals, respectively.

(Egg; , >> Provision of Space, Light,
'g%mmso¢54ﬁrf{éh Ventilation and Sanitary Living Conditions
Mequate exercise mﬁpace, light, ventilation and clean living

conditions for confined animals ﬂare important but Oinfreqcllient require—
undo a.

+kw?
ments of thg-anti— cruelty laws. ﬁ,8%atutes whie§_d oxequir§_these

provisions make only brief referAences to them. Statutes in Florida.
Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, New York, Ohio, Washington.
Wisconsin and Puerto Rico require fre§vair. California, Florida,
Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesotakaorth Dakoia, Ohio, Washington,
Wisconsin and Puerto Rico codes make reference to exercise or adequate
space. Lith/is required in Washington, and Puerto Rico, Maine and
Wisconsin statutes require clean living conditions.

(;+f§ ”wtgprotection from Abandonment

 

Abandonment of animals is defined in the Colorado code (Section
18—9—201) as ”the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person
responsible for its care or Custody without making effective
provisions for its proper care.” According to Webster's Third New
International Dictionary (19 l) to "abandon'I means ”to fééake or
desert esp. in spite of an allegiance, duty or responsibility.”
Colorado, along(ﬁyth gg other states, the District of Columbia,
Guam, Puerto Rico and the Canal Zone, prohibits abandonment. In

several states, the prohibition is restricted tD‘willful, cruel or

 




—6—

1+;

:€>intentional abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; to abandoning

(if ‘7 disabled animals or to abandoning domestic anyamls (leaving in

question the protection of wild animals in captivity). +a|
QR Q—kar-y— ‘ M) A*b)

 

 

 

(Bn‘)\? Kinds of Animals Protected

With respect to the~questien~e§kwhich animals are to be

protected from cruel treatment, twenty—nine laws protect any non—
human living creature or ”any animal,” defining animahsté¢ineludepaﬁ
all living creatures exceﬁp/human beings. Twenty—six protect

”any animal” or ”an animal”; nineteen provide no definition of
”animal” and six apply the word to domestic animals, captive animals

or warm—blooded creatures.

<2t§£/> I>Protection From Poisoning

H—

A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal belonging
to another commits a criminal act. The anti—cruelty laws of twenty—
four states, the Canal Zone, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands
specifically prohibit the use of poison to inflict injury or death.
Under the Connecticut anti— cruelty code ”any per n who... unjusti— (as!

deg-mm “Cm 4"“: M°“°V‘ 0‘” 0"“ M orxubmnca 4"“1 dommb 0“ "W. 0" 0'3“” \f
fiablykexposes any s ch drug or substa ce, with intent that the
same shall be taken by an anyamd, or causes it to be done...shall
be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than one year
or both.’' Among the states which prohibit administering and/or
exposing toxic substances to domestic animals in the anti—cruelty
code, variations exist in respect to which animals are protecéd:
some concern any animal, dogs only, or livestock only, and some
distinguish between animals that are the property of the poisoner
and those that belong to someone else. Penalties for poisoning or
attempting to poison may vary according to the monetary value of
the animal, the species of animal, and wheﬁbr the animal belongs to
the poisoner or to another, with the longest term of imprisonment
and highest fine usually imposed when the poison is administered
to or exposed to livestock. In Nevada, for example, ”a per who
unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious drug or substance
to a horse, mule or domestic cattle, or unjustifiably exposes any
such drug or substance with intent that it be taken by a horse,
mule or domestic cattle whether the horse, mule or domestic cattle
are thoproperty of himself or another, shall be punished by imprison—
ment in the state prison for not less than 1 year nor more than 10

years, or by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by both fine and

imprisonment. A person who unjustifiably' administers any poisonous

 




or noxious drug or substance to any animal other than a horse, mule
or domestic cattle, or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or
substance with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal other
than a horse, mule or domestic cattle, whether such animal is the

property of himself or another, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.*

This section does not prohibit the destruction of noxious animals.”

(Section 574.150).

IN/states without such anti—cruelty statutes, poiSoning pro—

hibitions may exist under another title of the state law code, or

poisoners who injure or kill an animal belonging to another may

be charged with committing a crime against property. Within

the anti—cruelty code, a poisoner may be prosecuted for injuring,

killing or inflicting pain upon an animal. Colorado, which declares

that ”a person commits cruelty to animals if, except as authorized
E} by law, he...tortures, tormen€%...needlessly kills...any animal'l

imposes the highest fine for causing pain, injury or death: a

minimum of six months imprisonment and/or a fine of $500 to a maximum

of twenty—four months imprisonment and/or a $5000 fine.

Poisoners are hard to catch in the act, but announcement of

a substantial reward for information leading to the arrest and

conviction of a perﬂgh trying to poiSon domestic animals has

proved very effective in bringing a quick stop to such activities.**

pg§:%9 Humane Transport of Animals

N-~m ‘4 >

The anti— cruelty laws of 34 states, the District of Columbia
MJFQ.’ ”41¢“; fanwgori’bf’ a!) mQL/

and the Commonwealth of Eﬁerto Rico speeify th&t’au1Mdib be tran—

\be/ Onduofaol .
spefted’in a humane manner. Minnesota's law protects ”any live

as
animalsll (defining ”animal” towinclude.”every living creature”)

. ' «km...» ﬂa‘f" _
and speCifies what actsAconstitute a cruel manner of transport.

 

*The penalty for a gross misdemeanor in Nevada is up to 1 year
imprisonment and/or up to $1000.

**On a national level, the American Humane Association (AHA) offers
$500 for ”information leading to the arrest and conviction of any
person or persons willfully poisoning any animal.‘l Reward posters
are available from the AHA's office at 5351 South Roslyn, Englewood,
Colorado 80110. (10¢ eash; up to 25 free to humane organizations or

official agencies only.)

 




Tbs. V3132 0E. Sgssiiac Lesgssgs
Cruelty, as defined in the anti—cruelty codes, usually consists
of ”every act, omission or neglect*‘whereby unjustifiable physical
pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.” So when a law
does not specifically require shelter, a judge may determine
a_that failure to provide it is ”an omissfn” or ”neglect” causing
”unjustifiable physical pain” and, therefore, an act of cruelty
punishable by law. It is far better, however, if illegal acts
are specifically prohibited by statute. This need was demonstrated
in a 1976 opinion by Kansas Attorney General Curt Schneider on
whether abandonment constituted a violation of the state's anti—
cruelty code. The statéé then read as follows; ‘”Cruelty to animals_
is subjecting any animal to cruel mistreatment or having custody
of any animal and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect.” The
Attorney General noted the definition of cruelty-as quoted abovew”
in jurisdictions outside of Kansas (the Kansas code gave no defi—

nition) and determined that '’the mere act of abandoning does not per

se cause unjustifiable physical pain, A%ffering or death and thus

does not constitute cruel mistreatment.” He concluded that the
portion of the Kansas law which stated ”cruelty to animals is...having
custody of any animal and subjecting'such animal to cruel neglect”
does not apply to abandonment since the law refers to those persons
I'having custody” of an animal and “an abandoned animal would not be

in custody of the original owner.ll

Fortunately, in 1977 Kansas enacted stronger legislation with
more specific prohibitions and requirements, as noted in the aarts.
However, very generalized laws remain in other jurisdictions,
notably in Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Louisiana, American Samoa
and the Virgin Islands. In Georgia, for example, the portion of the
law prohibiting acts of cruelty, enacted in 1968, now reads in its
entirety: ”A person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act,
omission, or neglect causes unjustifiable physical pain, suffering,
or death to any living animal.”

A serious danger currently threatens the anti—cruelty laws.
There is a general trend to revise the penal laws throughout the
United States, and frequently the proposed revisions would
effectively weaken the anti—cruelty laws. For example, specific
cruelties, detailed and definited, are generalized ﬁgh the name of

____._

,1, v“ a, n
1*JIMK5cm%L\:ﬁa#&9 (WEN, L04%;! acf; afar

 




!

brevity with the result that the law, in essence, becomes ineffectual
and hard to prosecute. Exemption of animal experimentation from
the anti—cruelty laws is frequently a part of the proposals.
However, firm resistance by humanitarians has been successful in
retaining existing laws protecting animals. For example, in both
Minnesota (1963) and New York State (1965) the anti—cruelty laws
were kept intact despite strong efforts of the penal code reﬁjsors
to weaken them. Active campaigns informing the public of the
disastrous effects of the proposed repeal of most of the anti—cruelty
laws resulted in wideﬂspread protest, and the repeal did not take
place. (“ﬂ

- Clearly, aanalswneedwfhevsupportmefmall humane‘minded'citizens
03" ed 5(5on quov-L of: ammaU \s and:
te+~ (l) preserve strong laws: (2) promote better state and
federal legislation; (3) be alert to proposed changes in present
laws; (4) support all earnest workers who are humane officers; (5)
work to enlarge the number of good and efficient humane societies:
(6) report all cases of cruelty to those in authority, including
the local police or sheriff, state police or state veterinarian;
(7) plan practical ways to meet the cruelties in animal abuse;
cag§§d by an urge forwmaking~money at any cost% and (8) promote

humane education.

 

 




 

 




 

 

 




 

 

 

2
2

x 5

7o... u... u... m... u... u... u... 7-...

 

u... ..... ..... ...... n... ...,.

. .- m.-....v.....,...-u «Ma—~— -

 

 




 

 

 

J;

.—u“...noun...”"nun..."-...-..

.
2
.u

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

u.” ..-.. u... a... n... ....- “u. u... u... ﬂ... ....,

X

 

 




La.”

/ V C11

.- /" “‘

f,
L..

0/

I
.

<37”

 

 




 

1:"

 

 




u...c ...,.

 

.

u
.
:
c
u
.

..‘~‘.....

 




“a

a i

J.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Wu. H... u... Mn. N... u... u”. ..... A... u... u... a...

 

..... u... u... ..... ..... ~~~Ii u.“ u...

 




 

.
o

 




 

 

1'

o
.

t.

 




w

“.11.

3...

«nu ”.1.
~
....

.
.J...

 

 




n... u... u... .-... n...

n... ....

 

n... u... -.... u.” no... u... u... ...-. u... ..... u... ..... u...

 

 

 

 

 

 




u... u... u". u”. n...

uu- ....

 

.«u u... N... h... u». u...

 

 

 

 




..... .n" ...-. ..... n...

u... u... n... h-x.’ u...

m
.
..
.
p
.
.
.
.

.7

 

 

 

 




 

.u,. n.

u... u... u... “no u...

H... u...

 




 

 




 




 

 

 

 

 

t"" nu

 

 

 




, .
' t...

 

 

 

I...
.

g... ;
:.. . :....

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

.
u
w
u
.
.
..
u
.

 

 

"an...“.......-u.u....-...r 1- -

 




 

 

.... .mx.
.-- .

l

 

 

 

nun-"nunuuvu. ........»u.-
u... ..... u... n... u... u... n..- ...-. n... u... .uu on-o- u... n.“ .u-II ”A.- u... ...-. u... .....

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




13%.29139; ) it

.. .nrr- x-"W“‘«-"m‘f‘;

 

 

 

 




\

.... .............o«u.

u." u'uc u... u... ...-v

u". u...

.
.
.
.

 

 

 




 

u...
I.

"q. 1....

 

 

”W...
.. t».

1"" <", '— ""

~
..... ..... ”7.. u... nu. 0... us... "”4 u... u... n...

a... a... .

... .u... .........-.....N.....».u.un“
u... an. ----- uh. ...~

 




 

i - u. ,

m «

I'ZLSE'M ,
. r" a .; .3 / ,'/ "(a f“ k
// 1 '7 [-
. .. / / L s . \.
. . ._ .- ,, ,-‘ L, "\J ’4‘,» r/ r 2
/ XxiﬁL L La; L 4/
L)“ '

 

 

‘c

A
a

Ll f/‘Xu // (_

 

 

 




 

....v..

....

.o.:.

X
I
a.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




no. 1..._ .... ..
. g : ;..r :

1..

u... .

X

n... 3' ‘

 

 

 

n...

.X... .1...

 




i

L

~-.,. m.......=.., M..-”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
u
.
.
m
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
a
.
.
.
.
.

 




 

 

 

 

.....

i...

:vO-r

 

 

 

.. u... ....~ ...., n.” n... u... HM. a... u... u... ...,. u... u... -.-.. u... u... u... u... 4...

 

 

 




 




.

.1... »

 




 

1

i

 




 

,uu

.
.
.
.
n
m

a... u... .. on ”n.

: ,...
2

 




 




..... .v-g- ,

..-

 




andfmr up ta 1

ﬁfHﬁfﬂﬁP

 

 

& mmmthm

and may in addi“

J- -. .... ... t- I... ....
- :::' ML}! 2 Li 332::-

4?w1w40
47w1w49

47»1~§Q;Zf

55 1 1:) {:3 5;. 45:3“ 1 "‘ 1 r:
~4- .-- f? m

. i_.f (3.1.3.11; a

$10G ﬁﬂdfﬂﬁ

twwmmn*:~
l

 




. _-..._'~. 3..

It"! earwzj x’c3r* nys

ﬁmdxruw

and may-
? x 2m 2 mmmthﬁ

ﬁmdfar up ta ﬁﬁ 4m

‘..J {u '

32. I"! d 3'". 1:} i”-

--o-.

u.-
a.)

i 3"} Cj (:1! r"-

ﬁmdfar up

€Q%%%
me:

I
' u

11Q@ﬁtq

1:; ~73

‘....‘ 41..

.“ ”I l i

- . wm_mmw
7 wwwkmm

 




o
n
.
.
u
.
.
n
.
.
-
.
n
u
.
.
.
.
.
u
u
a
.

u

a...

i

..... on.
.

u... "w.

 

 

 




u
h
«
.
n
.
.
.
u
.
u
.
.
.
u
.
a
n
.
.
u
u
.
.
.
H.
.
u

 




Q

 




[VOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES/CHAPT. ONE

' C9 ‘ G»

:r I.Anti;§ruelty pays Wiggput Qualifyind§§hrases‘ﬁgéymgj

N

txuu) overnment - Section ﬂO.

—.—————-—-

Alabama “ 3~l-12
California . Penal 597
Connecticut 53—247

District of Columha 22-801’

Idaho 18-2102

Illinois 83704

Maryland 27—59
Massachusetts 272-77

Michigan W 752-7"
Minnesota I 343.21
Mississippi 97-41—1

Nevada 574.100

New Jersey 4:22-17; 4:22-26
New Mexico 30-18-1

New York Agric. & Markets Gaéc9353

North Dakota 36—21.l-02

Ohio 959. 13V
Oregon [(9:12 350

Rhode Island 4-1-2

South Carolina 47—1-40

q
Massackuccﬁs We Jinx—‘1'] 64m: whoever Ox:;rdf'Nu) ovwéﬂmcfgu

when Overloade) ovuuorgs) -+cr+\)“¢\$/ “formwts/ ,dePrAILJ o nﬁwor / mfﬁxmu '
aw ~Ludb -H{H5my- kids on cmwﬂd.~~ \SHGU ML ﬁﬁned and a“

U ‘I / Mu °

g3ddb

 




South Dakota

Tennessee

Vermont

Wisconsin

Canal Zone

Guam

Puerto Rico

I Continued

éO-l—Z

39-404

13-403

948.02

6-232
HGSU

1/;

w

5-1652

 




ﬁ
9

THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI—CRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES/GIAPT. ONE

.>-II. Ant§:gruelty Lays wigh Qualifying%§hgg§es Preceding prohibition
a g; Cruelty “_' ’" :2 —s. :2. :5?

C‘“ c}! A

 

& .-

3, *7 /,
overnment Section #0. Qualifying Phrase

*
_

Al k H: (ab. I40 ' :Mbna“ ‘u-F. LL13 \SMWGAJ be’gd D
as a ' . L.”
. 7ta 3 or" SM am an amma
M w . n . :5

Arizona 13-2910 "recklessly subjects any animals 0
poultry under human custody or
control to cruel mistreatment; or
...to cruel neglect"

Arkansas Cﬁﬁh 41-2918 . "knowinglyxsubjects any animal
to cruel mistreatment:...any
animal in his custody to cruel
neglect"

Colorado 18-9-202 "knowingly or with criminal negli-
gence overdrives,...unnecessarily
or cruell eats, needlessly
mutilates ....”

Delaware 11—1325 "intentionally or recklessly sub-
1§F§¥::y~ﬁgtiirai jects any animal to cruel mis—
treatment; or;..any animal in his
custody to cruel neglect"

Florida 828.12 "unnecessarily

Georgia 16—12—4 "act, omission, or neglect causes
unjustifiable physical pain, suf-

QE§QED fering, or death"

. . 37;; .
Hawall :Quf\A 11—1109 "know1ngly or recklessly"

Indiana 35-46-3—2 "knowingly or intentionally ab-
andons, neglects, or tortures"
(a vertebrate animal in his cus-
tody) ' ~

717.2 "intentionally or negligently"

M~ ‘ CQAL£QC+13H J7x.oss ms: Any f‘mom Wk” CLv—tl—L'}; '2‘ a 2.15:1

kS\SOLrt E: E“; Mans) weand} ‘E t) of. w-I-vrts my Orv-ma or 0PM:- honkumm

0AA W man/ k “ 10L 'FMQJ'.‘ M’or Wrtéonkd- GEE-aha; adclLA.)
S G .

D

‘hf23 <3t¢“”L““

 




Kentucky

Louisiana

Maine

Missouri

21-4310

525.130

14:102

l7A—510

578.055

578.060

45—8-211

W"

Nebraska gﬂqoov28—1002

New Hampshire
North Carolina
Oklahoma
Pennsylvania
Texas

Utah

Virginia

J

644:8
l4—360Q5/
21:1685
18-5511(c)
Penal 42.11
76-9-301

18.2-392

II Continued

 

"intentionally killing, injuring
maiming, torturing or mutilatimg
any animal"

"intentionally or wantonly"

"intentional or criminally n
ligent mistreatment"

"intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly"

"cruelly, in a willful and mal—
icious manner, kills, mains,
wounds, beats or tortures"

"cruelly overwork...or cruelly
drive"

"without justification...knowingly
or negligently subjects an
animal to mistreatment or neglect"

"intentionally or recklessly
subjects any animal to cruel

. ﬁx .
mistreatment$;or...any animal
in his custody to cruel neglect"

an; guaurw, "

. 7)
\| .. , (rue/(I ... M‘LSJ‘H
" “30“ﬁ/‘l (L 1 3' ﬂ

amrrffmiiy“7*13vcﬁ7fjcﬁugﬂtﬁﬁ7jg‘

"willfully or maliciously"
"wantonly or cruelly"
"intentionally or knowingly“
"intentionally or knowingly"
"willfully inflicts inhumane

injury or pain...or cruelly or
unnecessarily"

 




II Continued

 

Washington 16.52.070 "cruelly"

West Virginia 61-8—19 "cruelly, unnecessarily or need—

lessly"

_. 3- 208°96-

b ”uu3k0U+|am§Lla79w##7)-
Wyoming -i%*§$ﬁﬁ§gﬁt " -- “'1

unnecessarily ormcv v
u _

A 00?, M
American Samoa 15-162 "willfully (sic) and maliciously"
\/

3:153 ,, J.. a a I!

. . 3 3 —
V'Q‘“ 15‘0““ I‘i-—l8\ "maliciously and can/”7”

, . knowmdlv . . .

I!

 

\ﬁThroughout the charts the section number refers to the identifying

title, chapter, or article and section number of the statute in the

state law code.

hm 45"“ '
. v . ~
~**The9bhi states:"No person shall overwork, overdrive, overload,

or torture an animal.... unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly

mutilate or kill an animal...?

 

07% Dorm Cadmc Cody? 1413!.

‘ Owdr‘pfev over-\oad) mound) 5'15 J
(SUCH/10%) CLUj-dly bit—04"} ALA—M "W
%o Ever Overdr‘my" ‘ ‘ ‘ CBnPMu-zs a

#X
"m, (Dvmﬂ 6&qu ((9—3—209Md4 : u A 19"”:‘5" ...overloads ,

I
Commas Uvﬁﬁmf‘lo anM“L$ :‘C/ W -ously

owu4ood9) ch7ﬁL5

Km , l : ovuﬁ‘du M5414
h” w”‘ ’ / ‘ illfully
QM outm-CQLJ) Ovvwm/WJ ”Wt ...

\ alien
Unrwwaﬂy or CWQ—J‘y $19513} maﬁa—“RA or L-HS. an
I r . .. ‘

an nine“ .. . , D C1+ak6 addul)

V

 




THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNITED StateS/CHAPT. (EU:

is @ CE)

!
IIQAQEi-Crgglty Laysfhngﬁh Require Provision of Food and Water<L

--—-— “—- "" a.— __

A. Laws without qualifying phrases.

Government Section No.

————-——’
#—

Alabama 3-l—lﬂc/

W 1W
Arkansas C}¢"h 41—295j6/
California {Ek——Penal 597
Connecticut 53-247
Delaware 11-1325
District of Columbia 22-80f$/
Florida 919, mg) 828. 13V
Idaho 18.2102
Illinois 8-703
Kansas 21—4310
Maryland 27-505/
Massachusetts 272-719/
. q' , ﬁggﬁllﬂ

. I
Minnesota 343':

Mississippi 97-41—3é'97-41_1v4 97—41-9
Missouri 578.060
Nevada 574.100

New Jersey 4:22—26

 




New Mexico
New York
North Dakota
Ohio

Oklahoma
Oregon
Bennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia

Wisconsin

30- 18—1 (A V
Agric. &.Markets‘G-i§r§53: BSQV/
3q§21.1-02
959.13
21.1685
len.896*$7

18-55115Jﬁ/

4‘1‘2V/
47—1-4my’

c330
40-1-2W [as
1:
39-40%, and 39’406V/
13-403V’

16.52.1oob/

 

 

"ﬁg-l 10.40.,
i Wyoming

Guam

 

\Q Applies to confined animals only.

1 K- “ .— 0F emujeﬂc- exer-
\gk . ‘a‘xc M M Case, .Qﬁ 7)
IPhe Oregon reads. -— '—P+C 1 C any an. ,1 ho d pm 9 ch

0V4 er °" PWOVL Raw m the? .
“.mO‘ 6‘ a .Fg. ”A A . L Firm {4... 3!. km Jinn the, ﬂair/«id
ﬂ nimTSKS‘a-v and ﬂunk/L r" I I an . . ‘ . .3)

Q7 ‘k" 10-4 "Liv-Yes ”necessar], \cochancg.” (Irkf‘aﬂm‘fl'v‘nmi

cit-an“ "I;

' nab
53-!“ 361041-9- unci Guam 3 “ ﬂccﬁSscr", \Ss-N‘l'm“ I

I

in Ahbcma : "annexes-7 swmam, MW."

 




III.Anti—Cru§lty Lawgﬁﬁhigh Require Pr

Wafer;

‘7'

B. Laws with qualifying phrases.

I

ovision

Food a d

~
—

19'15!)

The MichiganKIEixstgtes:

"Whoever...having the charge or custody of any animal, either
as owner or otherwise...willfully fails to provide food, drink

GOVERNMENT

Colorado

District of Columbia

Florida

Hawaii

Iowa

Kentucky

Maine

Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan

Missouri

Nebraska

New Hampshire

SECTION NO.

18—9—202\r/

22-801

828.1 ;,{a€.u3N§
ﬂw

PenalA7ll-110ﬁv/'

717.37

525.130

l7A—5 1d\+/

27—59(3)

272-77
$§F4h4

”gar-ii 752.21

578.060
45-8-211

28—1001;28—1002

644:8\+/

" whall be fined and/or imprisoned. LEmfth-f amide—J.)

QUALIFYING PHRASE

"knowingly or with
criminal negligence"

"unnecessarily"
"unnecessarily"
"knowingly or redklessly

"intentionally or neg—
ligently

"intentionally or wan-
tonly"

"intentionally, knowing—
ly or recklessly"

"unnecessarily"
"unnecessarily"
"willfully"

"unnecessarily" (any
domestic animal)

 

"without justification..
knowingly or negligently

"intentionally or reck-
lessly"

"negligently'deprimtzmer
causes—te—be—éeprived"

 




III Continued
New Jersey 4:22-17Vk4-22-26V/ "unnecessarily"
New Mexico 30-18-1(B) "unnecessarily"
North Carolina 14-36GV' “willfully"
Rhode Island 4—1-2 "unnecessarily"
Texas Penal 42.1PK7/ "intentionally or
knowingly fails un-

reasonably"

76—9—30D‘7' "intentionally or know-
ingly"

Vermont 13-403 "unnecessarily"
Washington 16.52.070v/ "cruelly...unnecessaril*

West Virginia 61-8—19ﬁ/ "wilifully" [sié]
9-3/103 ”UnMQE: oé'lﬂ u
Wyoming 14-34-l62~* "~' -- . -f: u-
.
E z E : \ ‘ .c ' Le

Puerto Rico 5-1652 "unnecessarily"

 

1b
Vine“ ldcnds H» m m ﬂaw-me»: and dammit,
w Manny“. . . Gnu +0 F‘vade/u

*Applies to confined animals only.

MM5
**Texas and Utahﬁrequire "necessary food" and "care" but do not

specify "wate "

+ The law requires "necessary sustenance" ("sustﬁhﬂnce" in
New Hampshire). /l R

 




THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES/CHAPT. ONE

REE:/j —j;- <§;S31;//

IV. ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS WHICH REQUIRE THE PROVISION OF SHELTER ‘4
>

A. Laws without qualifying phrases.

GOVERNMENT SECTION NO.

Alabama 3--1"12
California [:é——Penal 597
Colorado 18-9-202
Connecticut 53-247
Idaho 18-2102

Illinois 8-703
Kansas 21-4310

Minnesota 343.21
Nevada 574.12df
New Mexico 30-18-RV’

New York(EEEiEj/grRarkets‘E;§;Z§‘*r—-————7A BSQV’

North Dakota 36—21.1-02
Ohio ' 959. 13V

Oklahoma 21-1685

 

 

Pennsylvania V 18-551(c)

South Carolina 47—1-40

South Dakota

Tennessee

Virginia 18.2-392
Wisconsin

Canal Zone

 

 

 

 




IV. continued

Guam

Puerto Rico

 

ﬂ
‘f
”Ji

er “ﬂakia.qsqurnadgax4QMBum:
*Applies to confined animals only. (Qhé/Ohio "No person
shall...impound or confine an animal without shelter from wind, rain,

snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected that
the animal would otherwise become sick or in some other way suffer.")

+The law requires "necessary sustenance" without specific reference to
I. II
shelter.

 




22»9O)

A

B. Laws with qualifying phrases.

law*states:

u ch‘On
. . - slam-Hr (Dr W

Government

____——-"—‘
“——

Delaware

District of Columbia

Florida
Hawaii

Maine

Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan

Mississippi

'Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

New Hampshire

New Jersey
North Carolina
Rhode Island

TGXBSL_.

Utah

‘whwu \ \ 0

 

Section No.

”
—-——-

Hr'1325
22-801

828.12

‘34—711—1lng/

17—A-51O

27459

272-77

Eggmwk*1cl.zt
97—41-Ig/

578.060

45-8-211

28-1001;28-1002

644:8

4:22-17;4:22-26
14—360k/
4—1—2

42.11

76-9-301

TheVDistrict of Columbia
Eggtmbﬂﬂgﬂ# 4&ﬁu:+o
4&wn-Hw« Mtawer”x5wn\

V;dL-.~» an afﬁrml DU;
bt. 'C‘ntd and or unpaitomd-
(Emphasis amid!“J

QualifyingPhrase

” -

"intentionally or recklessigﬂ'
"unnecessarily"
"unnecessarily"

"knowingly or recklessly"

"intentionally, knowingly
‘recklessly"

"unnecessarily"
"unnecessarily"
"willfully"

"unjustifiably"
"unnecessarily"

"without justification...
knowingly or negligently"

"intentionally or recklessly"

"negligently"deprives—ea?
causes~to4be-deprivedﬁn—

"unnecessarily"
"willfully"
"unnecessarily"

"intentionally or knowingly
fails unreasonably"

"intentionally or knowingly"

 




IV B Continued

Vermont 13-403 "unnecessarily"
Washington 16.52.070 "unnecessarily"

West Virginia 61-8-9v/ "wilfully" (sic)

. evades
Wyoming li—ﬁériﬁﬁ' "unnecessarily"

“NH-RA and dQJLLCJ¢ll¢ H L’H‘" .ut
m7de,”

V130 LS‘andJ \4— I?‘ “gating

+The law requires"necessary sustenance" without specific
reference to "shelter."

 




THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI—CRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES/CRAFT. 0N1:

V. Anti-Cruelty Laws Which Do Not Require the Provision of
Shelter

Alaska A Indiana American Samoa
Arkansas Louisiana -¥§£;£a—§s&aﬁég4_,.

Georgia Oregon

 




THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNIﬂD STATES/CRAFT ONE

WI. ANTI—CRUELTY LAWS WHICH REQUIRE THE PROVISION OF "NECESSARY
SUSTENANCE" 1E ADDITION TO FOOD, WATER AND SHELTER

A. Laws without qualifying phrases.

3-403

The Vermont law states: "A

person who... deprives of necessary sustenance...any animal"

shall be imprisoned or fined,

GOVERNMENT
California
Colorado
Connecticut
District of Columbia
Idaho
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Mississippi
Nevada

New Jersey
New Mexico
New York

Ohio

Oregon

Rhode Island
Vermont
Virginia

Guam

or both.

SECTION NO.
Penal 597
18—9-202
531247-

22-801

18-2102

27—59

272—77

Qgru9J 75nx-24
97-4l-l:97-4l-9*
574.100
4:22—17;4:22-26
30-18-1*
Agric.& Markets Code 353

959i13

.167.860*

4-1-2

)13-403

18.2—392
,4, 5‘15?”

 




VI continued

.
--O.

B. Laws with qualifying phrases. t.!!"oh imam 9' as:
"clvw— = . 3;..2’ urﬂﬁﬂzgg '1 '1 g
7 WW 5? '5 v." w
/l ‘vb Cd's-f
GOVERNMENT SECTION NO. QUALIFYING PHRAELZ‘:
Iowa 717.2* "intentionally or neg-

ligently"

u unn I CC gyar',‘\1 "
Washington 16.52.070 “cruellynb'

West Virginia 61-8-l9* "wilfully" (sic)

I
a . l n V ace {Scr- ‘1
@007 @3773 W
- ~H—e+-4eab

 

* These states specify necessary sustenace as well as food and
water but fail tobig additionirequire shelter.

., _ -r—ﬂ—W— "— "- ““‘“" """ " -— --~» ~“"“”‘-—h_l__

‘\._

‘7‘

\\

was m :L W
Mx com! or War. orcoJSC-fzsbL
on ng‘c‘” f) («(24 m1 do/nLcd’vL azxmai‘

, , an f’ -
0r C§$SCQGZK 0;?ch dunk WW
WAN-IQ; t%.c :c/ci’ﬁcz/qonf‘fl” 09.7000 and W of”
Wm 0. (so “a, 5-P- Tlvwﬁ ngque/wlncb / WW
éwr

, 1‘ °‘ n Games «data»

(\SMPM/ mﬁdWw'

agg€)-Huu&3 as 4;”\0U*53

”mug F+Jodwkoo+
- has "ﬂu, C‘W‘ﬂe’ ;'
.ﬁ—km/ /

l
A :MNW—e-s
CNK& ClujvdJL “fjiiiT::_2;1Fu"+Ba& <M“nKi<3r‘
Q/ !

J‘DWELZLA- 99m. m ww+W~ ”
F

X //

 




THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES/CRAFT. ONE

VII. ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS PROHIBITING ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS BY

THEIR OWNERS OR CUSTODIANS

A. Abandonment of animals prohibited without reference to 56$-
rnesticity or infirmity of the animal and without qualifying

phrases.

GOVERNMENT
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Idaho
Illinois
Kansas
Minnesota
Nevada

New York
North Dakota
Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

Wisconsin

Guam

SECTION NO.

04$ 9*
.QI__Penal 597f

18-9-202
53-247
18-2109
8-704
21-4310
343.21
574.100
355
36.21.1—02
18-5511
4-1—26

£4442.
W2 @9

948.15

N~§Cicrb

 




VII Continued

B. Abandonment of animals prohibited, without reference to
domesticity or infirmity, with qualifying phrases.

SECTION NO.

 

QUALIFYING PHRASE

 

 

Arizona

District of Columbia

Indiana

Kentucky

Maine

Massachusetts
Montana

Nebraska

New Hampshire
Oregon

Rhode Island
South Carolina

Texas

Vermont
Washington

Wyoming

4F129L8
13-2910

22-802

35-46—3-2

525.130

17-A-51O

272—77
45~8~211

28-1001f28-1002

644:8
167.860
4-1-3
47-1-50

Penal 42.11

76-9-301

13-403

16.52.070

g-Svla3

" um

"recklessly"
"cruelly"

"knowingly or intention—
ally"

"intentionally or wan—
tonly"

"intentionally, knowingly
or recklessly"

"willfully"

"knowingly or negligently"

"intentionally or reck-
lessly"

"negligently"

“cruelly"

"cruelly"

"cruelly"

"intentionally or know—
ingly abandons unreason-

ably"

"intentionally or know—
ingly"

"cruelly"
"cruelly"

"cruelly"

 




VII B. Continued

Puerto Rico "deliberately or with-
out reasonable cause"

A
,/ “TXL.1éy&ux7hmJ (SRSABSDvﬁxRQ:'#V\qump,aK:§3H7¢3L cfubelﬁb
annuals 90W. ~ ~ LL, M—J-M'Jtcmallk/ 0" W‘FON sic-)9 at. 907 anvme/ 7b 0‘— WSL:
Law! or IJur.'°\g_s mrs’h-cq-Muk 71mg“ abéanOKMf.”

 




C. Abandonment of maimed, disabled,

infirm,

VII. Continued

diseased animals

only prohibited, qualifying language as noted.

, 2.

District of Columbia
Florida

Midhigan

Minnesota

Nevada

New Jersey

New York

North Dakota
Oklahoma

Rhode Island
South Carolina

South Dakota

Vermont
West Virginia

Canal Zone

SECTION NO.

117407590.e

22x812

828.13
?c/\a' 350° 51>

\

343.21

574.110
4:22-20;4:22-26
Agric. & Markets
eedéV355
36-21.l-02
21.1686

4—1-4

47-1—70

40-1—12

13—404
61—8-19

6-232

QUALIFYING LANGUAGE

don " ' abled domw
c anima :?rt0 die"

see footnote

abandon “to die"

m ”pob‘hﬁc’ﬂ/

see footnote
see footnote

abandon "to die in a
public place".

see footnote

see footnote
see footnote
abandon "to die"
see footnote

"willfully abandon to
die“

abandon "to die"

 

The law pﬁhébiting abandonment of119é
simiiar to the~éeé+ewén§’0klahoma statate

abled or sick animals is
Y2 ‘0 I 09L, ““1"" MAS M Edam:

"Any person or persons being the owner or possessor, or having charge

 




VII. C. Continued

or custody of a maimed, diseased, disabled, or infirm animal,
who abandons such animal, or leaves it to die in the street,
road or public place more than three hours after he receives
notice that it is left disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor."

 




VII Continued

D. Abandonment of domestic animals prohibited, qualifying language
as noted-

SECTION NO. QUALIFYING LANGUAGE

Llahlaﬂﬂ} awful to abandon a
' "when
a caretaker
responsi—

un\a~u-R»\ +0 abmdow "(In

China“ oc-Smndx.’ uhdU‘ oneu
CW1“

Maine l7-A-510 unlawful to keep or
leave "a domestic animal
on an uninhabited or
barren island lying off
the coast of Maine during-
the month of December,
January, February or
March without providing
sufficient food and
proper shelter"

w\owv-§2\ 40 «bangles/L ”a 010—3,
C94) o.- N domu‘FL aann-d "

Delaware 11-1325

Maryland 10—490

Missouri 578.060 "cruelly" abandons a
domestic animal "to die"

Uhhcx-Rul 41: abanJovC a (503, .
0“", or” (rm:- dome-ﬁt (in-mad

Oklahoma 21-1691 unlawful to "deposit
along the public high-
ways or public streets...
or in any public place"
any domestic animal "with
the intention of abandon-
ing " it

Ohio 959.01

Tennessee unlawful to abandon "any
animal of the canine or
feline species on public
lands or rights of way"

 




Virginia

18.2-392

y;;_D'Continued

unlawful to abandon

any "domesticated animal
in any public place in-
cluding the right-of-WaY
of any public highway.
road or street or on th“
property of another"

 




~THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES/CRAFT, ONE

VIII. KINDS OF ANIMALS PROTECTED IN ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

A. Any non-human living creature or 'any animal" protected.
States specifying "any animal" define "animal" to include
every living creature exCept a human being.

GOVERNMENT SECTION NO. OF

DEFINITION
Arkansas Crhn- 41-2962 ’ﬁ/’//

,4
,;§<a&"mﬁﬁgﬁ’
California [— P k’" a
ér——~ enal 59

Colorado 18-9-201
Connecticut 17-22

District of Columbia 22-813

Hawaii I}... Penal 37-711-1100
Idaho 18-2112

Illinois 8-702.01

Maine 17A~510

Maryland 27-62

, _’ gﬁ=~i¢/
Michigan L’<:__Penal . .

150.31.; 752:. 31>
Minnesota 343.20
Mississippi 97-41-1
Missouri 578.055
Nevada 574.050
New Jersey 4:22-15
New York ___*__Agric. & Markets GodéPBSO
North Carolina 14-360
North Dakota 36-21.l-Ol
Cumggxrir

Rhode Island

 




South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee

Vermont

Washington

;-2*

Canal Zone

VIII A. Continued

47-1-10
40-1-1
39-401
13-401
16.52.010
li—%4—%G%«<~

 




VIII. Continued

B. "Any animal" or "an animal" protected with a definition of
of "animal" as given.

GOVERNMENT SECTION NO. OF DEFINITION
DEFINITION ”5+
4 VWMk IN} m ,
~A\a6La \‘o b‘. '40 a Coma bt‘ﬂ ’ MEUM‘I'MUVdc, $51... ‘0
Kansas 21-4313 “every living vertebrate
except a human being"

Kentucky ‘ 446-010 "every warmblooded
living creature except
a human being"

Nebraska 28-1001 "a domesticated living
creature and a wild Q3213
creature previously cap-
tured"

New Hampshire "a domestic animal, a
household pet or a wild
animal in captivity"

Oklahoma 21-1685 "any animal in subjugati
or captivity, whether wi

on . or tame"
W— W um engineere-
[fr‘Penal 42.11 "a omesticated living
creature and wild living
creature previously cap-
tured"

Wisconsin 948.01 "every living warmbloode
creature except a human
being"

Puerto Rico "any equine, bovine
' ‘ animal, sheep , goat,
swine, dog, cat or any
other domestic animal or
bird or any animal in
captivity under the con-
trol of any person"

max-3%
“\shau b9. Comma! +0

Mum“, Abs-cu or 43w! ”

 




 
   

 

VIII Continued

animal" protected, without a definition of

C. “Any animal" or “an
”animal."

     
  
 
 
 

 

Alabama A Montana
Alaska“1117¢67¢86frﬁr“ New Mexico
Arizona Ohio
Delaware Pennsylvania
Georgia ‘ Utah
\ *>
Indiana American Samoa "any useful east, fowl\i>
or animal} "

 

 

Louisiana <:E::i::ﬁﬂfijj§g>
Guam
Massachusetts
”“\‘ Virgin Islands
61* _
hatrhht, ’ #4
u‘Q 7* hi

 

D. Domestic animals only protected.

BEFEN¥$ION/L—

GOVERNMENT SECTION NO.
or—ereature£_.
Iowa ‘ 717.2 protester“any domestic animal
or fowl, or any dog or cat“
West Virginia 61-8-19 preteetg/"any horse or other

domestic animal”




agglJan

VIII Continued

PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ANTI—CRUELTY LAws‘

GOVERNMENT & SECTION
NO. OF STATUTE VIOLATED

Colorado 18-9-202
n

-J

as

Florida 828.12

828.13

Penal 42.11

Delaware 11-1325

a/
Crim. 309:)
4323-2918:

ng£5*"?&1-2953

16-12-4

Arkansas

Georgia

17-A-510

Missouri 578.060
578.055

New Hampshire 644:8

4’37 $1 26

PENALTY FOR VIOLATION

months
months

from $500 and/or 6
to $5000 and/or 24

up to $§000 and/or
3 years

up to

up to $§000 and/or

3 years

up to

up to $2000 and/or

1 year
up to $1000 and/or
2 years

up to $5000 and/or

1 year

(a) up to $ 000 and/or up
to 12 month in county jail:

or
(b)from 6 months to 12 months

in a state or county correc—
tional institution

up to $1000 and/or up to 1 year

up to $5000 and/or up to
1 year
$50 and/or up to 3 months

up to $I000 and/or up to
1 year

SECTION NO. OF
PENALTY

18-1-106
828.12
775.082
828.13
775.082
775.084
Penal 12.21
11-4206
11-4207

Crim. 41—119]

41-901

17-10-3

17-A-1301
17-A-1252

560.016
578.055

651:2

 




 
   
   

VIII Continued

        
    
       
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
    
   
    

North Dakota 36-21.1402 up to $1000 and/or 35,21,1_11
up to 1 year 12.1—32-01

 

Tennessee 39-404 up to $1000 and/or 39-105
up to 1 year

39-406 up to $1000 and/or 39-105
up to 1 year

39-423 from $2.00 to $50
n or up to 30 days
Virginia 18.2-392 Class 1: up to $ 000 18.2-11
an 0 up to 12 months

Class 3: up to $500

39-423

Idaho 18-2102 up to $1000 and/or 18-2102
up to 6 months
18—2109 up to $300 and/or 18-113
up to 6 months ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
    
  
      
 
  
 
 
   
    

-\

 

 

' 65‘46’3’1 QMQMHG M61 (no 70 addfh‘m 39¢ ' “
Indiana 21-4316. apwto~$tﬁﬁﬁ—ana—6-monthanl 35-50-3-3
WWW 35-50-5-2 *
r-Qﬁmcl «JP ‘fb «[1000
Kansas 21—4310 up to $1000 and/or up to 21-4503
6 months 21-4502
Nevada 574.100 up to $1000 and/or up to 193.150
574.110 6 months: or a fixed period
574.120 of work for the benefit of the
community
Nebraska 28-1002 up to $1000 and/or up to 28-106
6 months
Oregon 167.850 up to $ 000 and/or up to 161.635
167.860 up to 6 months 161.615
Maryland 27-59 up to $1000 and/or 21—4503
up to 90 days 21-4502
27-60 up to $100 27-60
Jr\au.oc:\ (pod <34... qu—HOCI up 4., qyooo TPW\ 3'1 - 7094040
Arizona 13-2910 up to $750 and/or _ 13-802
6. up to 4 months in the ‘ N 134707
custody of the department
30 (9,8,203 \ Of COIIBCtiODS G- 3.. 103
@‘Kﬁnzon > Up—j-ogu-ﬁb and for Win (a ﬁlm-TM
J03; ar-hu‘acc. ‘H‘t

 

 

7‘ '. \ 41>“ . . \ .
«#1 02“me +o~FMe§Aor¢m~1 1", 9558551" w,m_ hté B.Qgpecun-ar1

‘o&S\&N+anA b1 vaWna c; 4%L_cﬁxhnse, Commdﬁtd.

   




 
   
    
     
     

Ohio

Oklahoma

Kentucky

Massachusetts

New York 'X;j:a

Virgin Islands

’ g; 1and
4&0ﬂ-ﬁﬁwﬂsa ‘7

California

Mississippi

Montana

959.13

959.01
21-1685

21-1686

21—1691
525.130
272-77

Agric. &
Markets 353

355 V_,«»¢]

4H»
356 “V q}
14-181

4—1-2;4-1-3;

up to $750 and/or
up to 90 days

up to $100

up to $500 or
up to 1 year in county jail

or up to 5 years in peniteniary
up to $500 and/or
up to 1 year in county jail
from $10 to $100 and/or
up to 30 days in county jail

up to $500 and/or
up to 12 months

up to $500 and/or
up to 1 year

up to $500 and/or up to
1 year

up to $500 and/or

1 year

up to $500 and/or

up to 1 year

up to $500 and/or
up to 1 year

from $50 to $500 and/or

4-1-4;4-1-26 up to 11 months

Penal 597

597f

97-41-1

97-41-7
97-41-9

45-8-211

up to $500 and/or
up to 6 months in county
jail

from $15 to $500 and/or
up to 6 months

from $10 to $100 and/or
from 10 to 100 days

up to $500 and/or up to
6 months

VIII Continued

959.99

959.99

   

2929.21

2929.21

        
       
          
     
       
 
  
 
  
   
    
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
   
 
  
   

21~1685

21-10

21-1692

534.040

532.090

272-77

353

355

356

Penal 19

99-33-3

99-19-31
97-41-13
97—41-13

45—8-211




North Carolina

Minnesota

Montana

Alabama

Michigan

Illinois

Puerto Rico

Pennsylvania

Connecticut

District of

Columbia

New Jersey

14-360
14-361.1

343.21

45-8-211

3-1-12

8-703:
8-704

5-1652

76-9-301

18-5511

53-247

22-801:
22-802
22-812

4:22-17:
4:22-20
4:22-26

uP
uP

uP
uP

uP
up

uP

addition be imprisoned

uP

uP
uP
uP
uP

uP

uP
uP

uP
uP

from $10 to $250 and/or

uP

uP
uP
uP

$500 and/or
6 months
$200

$500 and/or
to 90 days

to $500 and/or
to 6 months

to $500 and may in
to 3 months

to $500 and/or

to 3 months

to $100 and/or
to 90 days

to $500

$300 and/or
6 months

$299 and/or
6 months

$300 and/or
90 days

to $250 and/or
to 1 year

to‘$250 and/or.
to 1 year

to 1 year

to $250 and/or
to 6 months
to $250

VIII Continued

14-360
14-361.l

609.03

45-8-211

3-1-12

2f.lbl

8-716;/36§100 —9-1
< jiizlé)

5-1659

76-3-3012/

76-3-204

18-1105
18-1101

18-106

53-247

22-801

22-812’

4:22-17

4:22-26

 




Vermont

Washington

'
H¥ﬁs'

New Mexico

West Virginia

Louisiana

South Carolina

South Dakota

Canal Zone

Alaska

13~403:
13-404

16.52.070
16.52.100

ll—a4—l92—

14:102
717.2

47-1-40
47-1-50
47-1-70

40-1-2
40-1—12

14-597b
14-597-
<IIZ:§§7§>

IS—JbA

VIII Continued

up to $200 and/or
up to 1 year

up to $150 and/or
up to 60 days plus costs
of prosecution

ﬁrom_$low$e—$l06=ané%or-
upaeew&~year———

up to $100 and/or
up to 6 months

from $5 to $100 and
may in addition be im@/
prisoned up to 6 months

up to $100 and/or
up to 90 days

up to $100 or
up to 30 days

up to $100 or
up to 30 days
up to $100 or
up to 30 days

up to $100 and/or
to 30 days

$100 and/or
30 days

13-403

16.52.165

14:102

903.1

47-1-40'

47-1-40
47-1-70

40-1-15
22-6-2

6-232

1.40;:gg

11.

14-597:
15-162

.490

/Ilf;0.4 o

14—597a

 




Wisconsin

VIII Continued

<:§g§.92;;. forfeiture up to $200; 948.l§é:?/
48.13, if intentional or 939.52
(:3ﬂﬁi327:> negligent, up to 939.51
(iglgflgk;> $10,000 and/or

up to 9 monthsf’/

n addition, the district

 

attorney may apply for a
temporary or permanent
injunction to restrain violators.

M

 

c - ’ - , _~
. Laws ofNew Hampshire. V01. 1. Province Period. App: ix D. Complete text. 1W4.
. Old South Leaﬂets. Vol. VII, Boston. 1896. p. 18-20. 2;?
. Federal Republic (Baitimore)Dec. 30, 1816. , [,1/

. New York. State Courts. Digest oﬂvew rorx Statutes “Reports, from earnest period to the year 1860.
Vol. 1, page 124.

. Revised Statutes. 1827- 28, Fourth Part, Chapter I/Title V1.3
. Journal of the Assembly of the State of New Yof. 5lst Sessio Second Meeting. Albany: C rosweII. I828,
‘ w pages 45-6.
' Revised S 'atutes, Part IV Chapter 130, Sect1qii 22.
.Statutes of Connecticut Title XXI, p. 184.
9. Statutes of the Territory of Wisconsin, pa _" 365, Sec. 19.
10. Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714). , I
11. 1860Laws of the General Assembly. Tit IV. Sec. 46. p. 395.

12. 1864 Laws of the Territory ofldaho. X; . Sec. 143. p. 329.
. 17"

 




 

 

 

 
   
 
 

ap-

ADISON.lF‘
clams: ,9 mg,
41/ 1
NOV 2 9 1984 ‘
_B_1/__/X_ ERL__£E ES

Help preve nth crue ;

By Lee Lason ;
With this unit, we conclude the
three- -part series on Cruelty to
Animals drawn from Chapter 828
6f” the 1983 Florida Statutes on

" the same subject and provided by

the Humane Society of Madison
County.

828.122 F1 or baiting
animals;'penalties. -- -

(1) This act shall be known and
may be cited as “The Animal
Fighting Act of 1976. "

(2) As used in this section:

(a) “Animal” means anybull.
bear or dog.

(b) "
with violence. to provoke or to
l1a1ass an animal with one or
more animals for the purpose of
t1ai11ing an animal for. or to
cause an animal to engage in
ﬁghts with or
animals.

(c) ”Person" means every
natural person, ﬁrm, partner-
ship. association of corporation

(3) Any person who Commits 6‘

any of the f0110wing acts is gu1lty
of a misdemeanor of the ﬁrst
degree. punishable as provided

in 5.775.082, or by a ﬁne not less;

than $1,000 and not more than
$5,000. or both: . -
(a) _Baiting, or using any
animal for the purpose of
ﬁghting or baiting any other
animal;
(b) Knowingly owning, man-

' aging or operating any fac111ty

kept or used for the purpose of
ﬁghting or baiting any animal; or
(c) Promoting, staging, adver-

. tising or charging any admission
.1 fee to a ﬁght or baiting between

tWO or more animals.
(4) Any p '111 who wilfully

Baiting" means to-.a,tta€k1.,~

among otherM .:

 

 

commits any of the following acts

: is guilty of a misdemeanor of the

second degree, punishable as
provided in 5.775.082 or by a ﬁne
of not more than $5,009, or both;

(a) Betting or wagering any
money or , other valuable
consideration on the ﬁghting or

baiting of animals; or .1

(b)? Attending the ﬁghting or
baiting of animals.

' (5)6Whenever an indictment is
returned or an information is

p ”ﬁled charging a violation of
' s. 828. 12 or of this section and, in

the case of an information, a
magistrate ﬁnds probable cause
that a violation has occurred, the
cou1t shall order the animals
seized and held until ﬁnal

disposition of the charges and

shall provide for appropriate and
vfjgjhumane care of disposition of the

animals. This provision shall not
A be construed as a limitation on ’
g the power to seize animals as
, evidence atthe time of arrest. If '
the animal IS unable to humanel

su1vive the ﬁnal disposition o
the charges, the court may ord
te1111111at1on of the ammal s lif
Upon conviction of the perss
cha1ged, the animals invol d
shall become the property of e
state and the court shall ord a
humane disposition of them

((1) The provisiOn of subse ion
(3) and paragraph (4)(b) sh 5’ not
apply to:

(a) Any person simula ng a
tight for the purpose of us' g the
simulated ﬁght as pa of a
motion picture which will ~ used
on television or in a .3- otion
picture, providing 828.1 is not
violated.

(b) Any person usin: animals
to pursue or take wil. fe or to
pursue in any h ing as

  

 
 
  
 
  
           

 

1 1egulated by

.m

 

the
regulations of the Game and

Fresh Water Fish Commission if
(c) Any person using ammalsrf
to wo1k liVestock for agr1cultural

purposes.

racing,
hibixed by law.
( 1* Any person

bu fighting exhibitions) _
) Any person using ammals‘

to hunt wild hogs or to retrleve.

dmestic hogs.

'-8 I3 @111an;
MW

  

-xerc1se
/

(1) (a) As used in this sectioni‘;
“abandon" means to forsake at?
animal entiiely or to neglect 01'?“
1efuse to p1 ov1de or perform the
legal obligations for care and
support of an animal by its-4'
owner. -'

(b) “Owner"
or custodian.

(2) (a) Whoever confines any
animal in any place and fails to
supply it with adequate, gOOd
food and water,

(b) keeps an animal in any
enclosu1e without wholesome
exercise and change of air, or .

(c) Abandons to die -- any
animal that is sick, maimed.
infirmed or diseased, is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the ﬁrst
degree, punishable in s.775.082
or by a fine of not more than-
$5, 000, or by both imprisonment

and a fi11e,or as provided in
s. 775.084.

includes oWner.

828.16 Contagious diseaSes --

1,. I71

,u4‘.\ I 1.111 1

. . V‘H‘V

. . '5 '11:};

t x t A];
t 0 ﬁi

: " t

" 1‘. 1."

. a 13-; .31

'2) :3;

rules and .

animal

(d) Any person using ammalsi’,’
to train greyhounds for legal1zedi§i
it not otherwise pro-{i

v1olatn1g ]_
s. 8 8.121 (conduct of simulated}:

ammals and fowl§; constmy .

‘ poultry and livestock exh1b n5.

    
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
   
    
   
    
 
        
     
    

nima a , part III

Whoever has charge 0 any
animal, knowing the animal
contagious disease or t"

 
   
  

828.12, and 828.13-828. 16, and
the arresting officer shall hold
the/offender until a warrant can
be procured. and he shall make
a‘njpearnest effort to procure such
‘ warrant.

barters or disposes
without telli

 

misdemeanor of
degree, punishable in s.-
or 3.775.083.

(1)1t1s unlawful to colorerdye
any animal or fowl -- rabbit; baby
chicken, duckling. etc. for to
bring any dyed or colored ahtmal
or fowl into this state...

(2) It is unlawful to sellft Offer
for . sale, or give away as
merchandising premiums, baby
chickens, ducklings or other fowl ,
under four weeks of age or
rabbits under two months of age
to be used as pets, toys or retail
premiums.

 

(3) This does not apply to a
animal or fowl —- rabbits, ba 9"
chickens, ducklings, etc. --
used or raised for agricul
purposes where proper faci

and care are provided, 1.

'3‘ .

(4) Violators of this . Cm”
shall, upon conviction, 1), guilty
of a misdemeanor of th second
degree, punishable by V
ors..775083.1 1

  

828.17 Ofﬁcer to a with“
" .or peace

warrant. -- Any 511%
ofﬁcer of the state , 71, ice officer
of any city or tow 1;. the state,
shall arrest with (“warrant any
person found ’ola'ting 8‘38?
provisiOns of SS ‘3; 8.0 82 5' v

   
 

  

11.3"




