4TH EDHWON.

 

 

“AN ABOMINABLE SIN”
Lord Shaftesbury.

VIVISECTION.

AN APPEAL To ‘ V
Scientific & Ethical Thinkers.
BY

T. A. WILLIAMS,

MANCHESTER.

 

Price—ONE PENNY.

 

1928

s
ECKERSLEYS, PRXNTERS, MANCHESTER.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

MANCHESTER SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION
OF ANIMALS FROM VlVlSECTlON.
31, VICTORIA BUILDINGS, MANCHESTER.

 

 

C hairMem :
Mr. ALEX. DOWSON.

 

. Committee :
Mr. & Mrs. J. T. DOBBINS.‘ Mr. J. CUMMING WALTERS, M.A
Miss M. HEYEs. Mr. ALFRED NIXON, FJCA.
Rev. A. M. MITCHELL, MA. ' Mr. G. S. HODSON, M.A.
Mrs. E. ELLISON. (Cantab.)'
Coun. J. H. MEACHIN. ' Mr. WM. TURNER.
Mrs. FRITH. Mr. A. LEEs.

Mrs. E. M. COCKER.

 

H on. Treasurer:
. Mr. JULIUS FRITH, M.Sc.

 

Hon. Secretary:
WM. A. NIXON, F.C.,A. 31, Victoria Buildings, Manchester.
Organiser and Lecturer :
T. A. WILLIAMS.

 

Auditors :
MILES, TAYLOR, PICKLEs & CO., Chartered Accountants,
Manchester.
Bankers :
The NATIONAL PROVINCIAL & UNION BANK OF ENGLAND, Ltd.,
Spring Gardens, Manchester.

-.." "3:: - u ...
r

::::

 




 

 

  

VIVISECTION.

HE question of Vivisection is one of vast and far—
T reaching importance: Have animals any right to be
protected from painful experiments? and are we
justiﬁed in inﬂicting pain upon them, from which we naturally
shrink and would hesitate to inﬂict upon our relations or
friends P

At the present moment in Great Britain, there is really
no protection afforded to viviseezﬁz’ble animals. Armed with
license and certiﬁcates, a Physiologist can do as he desires with
dumb creatures, and this in an age justly proud of its efforts at
justice and humanity. Animals are outside any protection,
and are worse off to-day in this connection than in any period
of the world’s history. The means to scientiﬁc cruelty
have increased, as desire for knowledge has grown, and its
attainment more possible.

The evidence of the cruelty of the experimental method is
overwhelming and conclusive. You cannot have painless
experiment, any more than painless wife beating, or merciful
ﬂogging to death———in fact it seems more reasonable to allow
absolutely unrestricted freedom to experiment, in the hope
that any possible good in the practice may be quickly reached,
rather than to give place to more humane method of research.
Cruelty is essentially a part of‘ these investigations upon
sentient creatures, experiments involving pain are inseparable
from vivisection, Dr. Washburn of Guy’s Hospital, reports,

 

  




 

2

an experiment upon a pony, which lasted from November of
one year till August of the following. Dr. Klein, of the Local
Government Board, gives the evidence of experiment upon the
organs of sight of seventy cats, sheep, etc. Professor 0. S.
Sherrington, of Liverpool, records his experiments upon the
brains of monkeys. We read 'of creatures made blind, their
eyeballs pricked with pins. '

The experiments of Messrs. W. M. Bayliss and Leonard
Hill, of tubes pushed down the veins of dogs, of arter and
spinal cords dissected and their hearts exposed, are well-
known. Perhaps the acme of infamy was reached by Dr.
Criles’ experiments, an enquiry into surgical shock. The
above citations are not taken from the records of the “cruel
and wicked” foreign vivisector, but took place in our own
land, where we are ”more humane," and where these wicked
things are not done. But the plain truth is that all experiment
is bound to be cruel, it is the same in kind, but differing in
degree. It has been well described that no prisoner in the
hands of a Red Indian is more to be pitied than the unhappy
dog that ﬁnds its way into a physiological laboratory.

We frequently hear that we are to rule over animals, that
we are superior to them. But to torture is not to rule, it is to
tyrannize, and to degrade our common human nature. To
torture is moral Anarchy. Even to take life may not be
necessarily cruel, for death is not an evil, but cruelty is
always a crime. I would pray for courage to bear pain, or
even a hundred deaths, rather than be saved by the torture
of my fellow creatures. I do not love animals so much as
humans, but I would not save the life of my dearest friend by
such degradation, even if the alternative were placed before
me.

 




 

 

 

3

The argument of “utility” is a base selﬁsh one, and will
not be seriously entertained by sincere thinkers. If the Deity
meant this means to be used, then I fear the scheme of the
universe is not good. The opponents of Vivisection are as
scientiﬁc in their thinking as its defenders, we urge that moral
science is of vastly more importance than any number of
physical facts, which lie hidden away in mouldy text books in
uncut volumes, which have never been of the slightest value
to the healing art.

The doctrine of sacriﬁcing others for our own beneﬁt, by
which Vivisection is defended, is a gigantic selﬁshness, immoral
in its conception, and fraught with disaster to the progress of
the human race. If good is the law of progress, then it is
impossible to believe that eventual good can be derived from
this positive evil of cruelty. It has been well said that
“Morality is true Utility”——to torture the lower will never
really help the higher, and the standard of ethics cannot be
safely lowered, or we must all ultimately suffer moral loss.
No one science is the measure of all knowledge or truth ; no
facts of physiology are so important to the welfare of the
community as mercy, justice and humanity. After twenty
centuries of ethical and spiritual teaching, we have got little
further than the barbarous method of cutting up living
creatures to ﬁnd our facts of so—called science always disputed
and useless in human relief.

Vivisection is nOt only morally offensive, but it sets up a
standard of morals for itself, it subverts the ethical growth of
the centuries. The late Professor Claude Bernard claimed that
science permits us to do to animals what morality forbids——
here indeed is a dangerous code, and one to make us earnestly
oppose the practice.

 

 




 

4

In the last decade there have been nearly half a million of
animals tortured, and there is not a single fact of any impor—
tance added to any text book of Physiology, nor has there been
any real knowledge gained to the beneﬁt of the health of the
peOple ; it has been a waste of time and energy which might
be more beneﬁcially employed. Vivisection is a blind groping
in the dark, it is in a channel that leads to no light. The well-
known Sir Benjamin Ward Richardson spoke of its leading
discovery as being ”contradiction.” It is the piling up of
knowledge on the uninSpiration of the mind—

“This was all the harvest that I reaped,
I came like water, and like wind I go.”

The latest vogue of the Vivisector is the elaborate methods
of production of diseases, under the guise of research. This is
a mere addition of an evil practice which ought not to exist in
any moral community, and to justify it seems but a return to
a code of ethics unworthy of our present boasted enlighten-
ment, in which justice and mercy are elementary principles
of further advancing morality.

Vivisection is not indispensable to medical observation
and study. Any possible truth in it must long ere now have
been accomplished ; it is now nothing more than a countless
repetition of admitted facts, like the ceaseless making of
mountains of loaves of bread which are never intended to be

eaten.

The claim that Vivisection has been of advantage to the
health and life of men or animals is diSputed even if not
disproved. No one who knows the facts, or who has made
himself acquainted with the tables of Mortality in the
Registrar’s General Returns will make such a claim. For
the last thirty years we can note the decreasing death-rate

fiﬁﬁmwmnwramuwww . . 3.??? _' 1 3.”. 'W' ‘ ', '
‘ ...., - t‘ "-

«0+




0

5

in the zymotic diseases, and trace their decline through the
increased attention being given to sanitary and social improve—
ments. In no one case can any decline of a disease be
traceable to any discovery by Vivisection, while there is
evidence to warrant the belief that in more than one case the
death—rate has been increased by the alleged cure, derived
from this tainted source of error.

The latest claim of vivisectional advantage, that of
serum treatment for diphtheria, is already under suspicion.
The death rate of the latest year for which We have the return,
is higher than in the year 1880, or ﬁfteen years before the
boasted cure had been found, and now fatalities are occurring
to such an extent, that a printed notice is placed in the hands
of discharged patients, that in case they observe any symptoms
Of recurring disease, they are to seek medical advice. The
strain upon the hearts of patients, the result of the so—called

_ cure is so great, that many are made permanent invalids,

liable to sudden collapse. This has wrung the confession from
two noted authors of a recent text-book, that “the results of
these anti—bacterial inoculations are disappointing,” and in my
own experience I have found cases of serious injury to the
constitution resulting from these unnatural serums being
injected into the current streams of our blood, which the
old book describes as the life.

In consumption and cancer vivisection has not brought us
one step forward. It has however diverted largely the public
mind from the sane method of sanatoria and isolation, it has
delayed this rational principle from public experiment and
acceptance. In these lies the promise of light upon this
problem. We are agreed that there is no universal short cut
to the Utopia of heath, but we afﬁrm that the vivisectional

 




 

 

6

method has hindered the problem from solution until it has
become a truism among ethical thinkers “that the morally
wrong can never be scientiﬁcally right.” Quite recently, in
this connection, Dr. Doyen, a noted Vivisector,has laughed to
scorn “these hecatombs of useless experiments upon mice and
rabbits in cancer research, because the artiﬁcially induced
cancers bear no analogy to cancer in the human.” We who
oppose Vivisection have been saying this all the way through,
and now comes science lagging along admitting what common
sense and humanity declared. The slowest profession to
move in the line of ethical truth are these gradgrinds of so
called physiological research, and to—day it is unknown
whether germs are productive of disease. There is quite
enough evidence to prove that the disease produces the germs.
The whole theory is a guess in the dark. The germ is fre—
quently present in health conditions, and absent in diseased
conditions. The chief truth that comes out of this matter is
that germs are inactive upon healthy tissue, and hence the
need of living clean pure lives, for in this principle of physical
and moral cleanliness lies the health of men and women, and
the welfare of the State. The strongest antiseptics are unable
to prevent the entry of the germs, and we are no further on
in science than the most simple minded house—wife of a
century ago, who was faithful in her use of the scrubbing
brush, and generous in her use of clean water. It takes a lot
of science to beat common sense, and amid the conﬂicting
theories and uncertainties with which the physiological
schools are rent, it stands clearly proved that Vivisection has
added no help or light on any one problem of disease. After
millions of animals have been done to death, the only thing
clear is the cruelty and degradation of the practice. Professor
Francis Newman wrote “Science has become a rival to the

w, w ”an...” - ., . -

J5 .‘ 4-4 ,4 ‘

 




 

 

 

7

torturers of the Inquisition, and by increase of knowledge
has learnt to torment still more ingeniously.” One aspect of
this question which is worth the consideration of all earnest
thinkers is the marked dislike of all the master minds in every
domain of thought. Every genius who has left an impress
upon the world beyond his time, has spoken hot burning
words of indignation against the meanness of this wrong done
to defenceless creatures. The thinkers of every school, the
poets, the historians, the great ethical thinkers have, with
wonderful unanimity, condemned the method as an unworthy
one. In this connection a few names may be quoted such as
Shakespeare, Tennyson, Bishop Westcott, Cardinal Manning,
Dr. Martineau, Thomas Carlyle, Emerson, Robert Buchanan,
Ingersoll, John Woolman, Charles Spurgeon, Lord Chief
Justice Coleridge, Victor Hugo, Frances Power Cobbe and
Ouida. Of living thinkers, it is enough to quote the versatile
G. B. Shaw, Robert Blatchford, and Dr. Alfred Russell Wallace.
Such a galaxy of diverse brains, can hardly be ag1eed upon
this question unless the evidence against the practice is
greater than anything to be urged in its favour. These minds
were agreed that the evil far out— —weighs any possible good, that
indeed, ”the game is not worthy the candle.”

To those who take the ground that vivisection is a
disagreeable necessity of medical progress, and think the
necessity of it may pass away, I urge them to look at the brave
minority in the noble medical profession who have spoken
and who are speaking out plainly against it. Let me remind
them that there are not too many independent minds in any
walk of life, and the medical profession is a rigid orthodoxy
from which few break away. Professor Huxley, who had no
conﬁdence in vivisection as far as it is related to healing,

 

 




1
l
i
l
l;
l
l

.»_ pl
31
t

 

 

8

spoke of the mass of medical men “they read to pass, not to
know; they do pass, they do not know ;” so that it follows

that truth will as often be found outside the profession as

within it, especially in matters of ethical insight.

There is no evidence that vivisection had contributed
anything of practical value to any department of the art of
healing. The late Professor Lawson Tait wrote me a letter
in which he said no Operation saving human life was due to
experimentation upon animals. Dr. George Wilson told the
Medical Congress of Portsmouth, that the countless mutila—
tions of animal life had not lessened the load of human
suffering. Sir Frederick Treves, in abdominal surgery, has
admitted he had to unlearn the results of canine experiments,
and Dr. Preston at Bath told the Congress that we were
grOping in the dark ; we wanted;direct experiment upon man.
In fact everywhere you look vivisection stands condemned
as a hOpeless, cruel confusion. There is evidence that the
whole line of modern research is in the wrong path. It has
become entrenched in monetary endowment and vested
interest. Only a public conscience can save it from the
present cruel error, and set it free to help the community in
the search for health by teaching us to obey the laws of life,
which are the laws of God ; for disease shall be conquered as
we learn to live righteously. The path of holiness is the path
to health, and in time we shall be just to all living things, and
“not even be discourteous to a dog.”

 




 

 

The Vivisection Act of 1876.

ITS PALPABLE CONTRADICTIONS.

 

 

Look on this side——

1 . The animal must be anaesthetised

Section 3, Sub-section 3.

2. The animal must be killed
before recovery from the anaesthetic.

Section '3, Sub—section 4.

3. The experiment is not to be’
performed in illustration. of lectures.

Section 3, Sub-section 5.

4. No experiment calculated to
give pain to be performed on a dog
or cat without anaesthetics.

Section 5.

5. No experiment is to be per-
formed on a horse, ass, or mule.

Section 5

6. On any breach of the pro-
visions of the Act, no prosecution
can be obtained unless (1) the
consent of the Home Secretary, in
writing, is obtained; (2) the
prosecution is instituted within six
months of the offence.

And on this.

1. Certiﬁcate A can be obtained
to dispense with the use of
anaesthetics.

Section .3, Proviso 2.

2. Certiﬁcate B can be obtained,
allowing the vivisector to keep the
animal, alive after its recovery from
the anaesthetic.

Section 3, Provis0‘3.
3. Certiﬁcate C can be obtained,

allowing Vivisection (under anaesthe-

tics) in illustration of lectures.

Section 3, Proviso 4.

4.. Certiﬁcates E and A allow
operations on dogs or cats without
anaesthetics, and Certiﬁcates B and I
BE allow dogs and cats to recover,
after serious mutilation, when the
effect of anaesthetics has passed off.

Section 5. ,

'5. Certiﬁcate F allows experi-
ments to be made on horses, asses,
and mules.

.6. These conditions are an efﬁ-
cient bar to prosecution, because (1)
the consent of the Home Secretary,
is exceedingly difﬁcult to obtain .;
(2) the offence is seldom known until
after the six months’ limit is past,
as Vivisectors seldom publish their
records within that period.

 




“Nature continually presents us ready made experiments of the
most delicate and suggestive kind, impossible for mechanical artiﬁce
to realise, on account of the conditions under which artiﬁce must

necessarily work.”——P1/0f. Chew/cot.

Health of body and health of mind are the only safe guards from
disease.

“Even brutes must be with mercy slain.”

“The most dangerous form of cruelty in the world is Vivisection.
because done with professed high motives.”

“Better to die men than to live ﬁends.”

“Animals have rights—«the right of exemption from cruelty.”

 

Mr. Williams is open to receive invitations to address meetings of
every kind—no sectarian or political barriers. He appeals to every just
phase of thought. Write him per W. A. Nixon, F.C.A., see page
2 of cover.

 




