Freeman, the noted English historian and
noble humanitarian, justly declared; “that the
awful wrongs and sufferings forced upon the "
innocent, helpless, faithful animal race forms _1
the blackest chapter in the whole world’s history.”

THE COST OF A SEAL-SKIN COAT.

Reprinted from 25/26 “JOURNAL OF ZOOPHILY.”

The English Humanitarian League has recently pub-
lished, in the form ofa small pamphlet, authentic and valu-
able information on the subject of seal-killing. It shows
most clearly that the work is carried on in a way which
literally lacks no feature of horror and barbarity. The
account is compiled from the statements of reliable eye-
witnesses. From the mass of testimony we Cite some
examples. Captain Borchgrevink, the great Antarctic
explorer, writes as follows :—

“As a rule, the slaughter and skinning of the seals
was most barbarous, bloody, and hideous—unnecessarily
so. Specially cruel is the task when seal-pikes are used.
Only rarely does a seal die from one or two blows of
the pike, and if it is not dead, it is generally considered
‘ all the better,’ for it is easier to skin a seal when it is
half alive. In the utmost agony the wretched beast
draws its muscles away from the sharp steel which tears
away its skin, and thus assists in parting with its own
coat”

Dr. Gordon Stables, R.N., who has extensive knowl-
edge of the organized trading labors of various com-
panies, says :—

“ Now I can testify to the truth of this writer’s state-
ment. I have been twice in the Arctic regions, and
should know. Yes, I have seen brutal sailors skin the
creatures alive, and pitch the kreng into the sea.” And
Professor Gambier Bolton testiﬁes thus :————

“ As if it were not sufﬁcient to skin the poor creatures
when they are only half dead, because of the wretched
seal, in its agony, writhing away from the skinning-
knife, thus making the task easier for the human wretches
who adopt this method, I am assured by an eye-witness
that when this takes place in the close neighborhood of
the waves, the half—dead seals are thrown or kicked back
into the water to die, so as to be out of the way of

“Cruelty is the devil’s trade-mark, and kind-

. ness is heaven’s trade-mark.”

“Open thy mouth for the dumb.”

(Proverbs 31-8.) {

,r

 




2

the killers, who are busy with other victims. Icould
tell of even greater horrors ; . . ,. of pregnant seals
ripped open (although out of coat themselves, and there—
fore useless), and of the fetus torn away from them to
make the extra soft and delicate fetal sealskin, prized
even more highly than the fetal Llama and Astrachan
skin (all, by the way, obtained in the same manner); and
until the law steps in, and with a ﬁrm hand once and for-
ever puts down these cruelties, by punishing with im-
prisonment any one found dealing in these fetal skins,
and by appointing inspectors to watch the seal islands
carefully and continually, they are certain to continue.”

The remedy suggested by Professor Bolton is indeed
needed, but the greatest need of all is that women should
refuse to purchase seal-skins; they are not a necessity of
life. The choice should be made between vanity and
common humanity.

Another writer, Dr. Wilfred T. Greenfell, in an article
on “ The Seal-hunters of Newfoundland,” speaks of the
size and strength of the old Hood seals,-and their mar-
velous vitality, which makes one feel the savagery of
killing them, and gives in detail one special instance.
The readers of the JOURNAL OF Z06PHILY will perhaps
remember the description of sickening cruelty in seal-

ﬂ killing once furnished for its columns by Mr. William
Gavitt, who, having lived many years in Alaska, had
seen the work as carried on on St. George Island and
elsewhere.* His account is, unfortunately, only too well.
matched by that of others. The driving of the seals
is one of the most terrible features of the butchery.

 

*“ At our request Mr. Wm. Gavitt, who has lived in Alaska and has
been an eye—witness of the cruelties of the seal ﬁsheries on St. George
Island, has sent us a description of what he saw in the years 1887 and
1888. So far as we know no reform has ever been instituted, therefore
the presumption is that these cruelties continue. ,Mr. Gavitt describes
St. George Island as an ulcer on the face of civilization, because of the
debauchery and drunkenness of the government employees.

“ His account of the seal ﬁsheries says that the animals are captured
by rushing between those breeding and the bachelors ; then the latter are
driven over rough roads to the killing grounds, which may be as far off as
ﬁve miles, over and between rocks of all kinds and shapes. The heavy
coated animals soon become over-heated, and often foam at the mouth and
die on the way, snapping like mad dogs. When the others reach the
killing ground they are driven into a long column of three to ﬁve abreast.
and pass between men who have heavy clubs with which they crush the
skulls of those who are wanted. Those not wanted are permitted to ﬁnd
their way back to sea. In clubbing, it frequently occurs that a seal not

_ There are a great many lessons in these few .
words : “ 10d made the cattle.” “God remembered
the cattle.” “He caused the grass to grow for the
cattle.” “ The cattle on a thousand hills are his.”

 

We plead the cause of those dumb '

months. that have no speech. l
' l

 




~ —.___—

“I have not lived in vain—
If I but stop one tear, or heal a wrong
01' lift a fainting rubz'n into his nest again,
I have not lived in vain.”

3

When killing is to be done, thousands upon thousands
are driven and forced onward over ground which it must
be torture for them to traverse. Hour after hour may
pass before the drive is at an end. Speaking of it, a
soldier once observed to Captain Bryant, U.S.A. : “ This
is the ﬁrst thing I have ever seen or heard that realizes
my youthful conception of the torments of the con-
demned in purgatory.” Another eye-witness said: “ The
young seals are massed together by thousands. They
look up in your face and just cry like children.” Cap~
tain Scammon, in speaking of the driving and killing of
a drove of sea~lions (which are closely related to the fun-
seal), said that after they were all dispatched but one
young one, which was spared to see whether he would
make any resistance, “the poor creature only moved
along through the prickly pears, which covered the
ground, when compelled by his cruel pursuers, and at
last, with an imploring look, and writhing in pain, it
held out its ﬁn-like arms, which were pierced with
thorns, in such a manner as to touch the sympathy of
even the barbarous sealers, who put the sufferer outof
its misery by a stroke with a heavy club.”

Another dreadful feature of this cruelty is the slow
starvation of the young, as the seals are killed indis-
criminately. Professor Thompson, who conducted an
inspection in. the interest of the British Government,
said that “the carcases of dead pups, starved and emaci—

 

wanted is injured. If it is able to get away, well and good; if killed, the
skin would not be accepted by the company.

“ After clubbing, the men load them on drays, and after stabbing them
in the breast, skin them. Mr. Gavitt describes the scene—the ﬂying of
the eyes from the struck seal, the crush of the skull, the ﬂow of blood,
the sobs of the dying, and the brutality of the heartless and careless men——
as awful. To his protest the answer always was that there was no other
way, but his idea is that an electric sword could be used or electricity con—
veyed in some way. Mr. Gavitt, who now lives in Evansville, Indiana,
says that this and the treatment of the natives that he saw in Alaska made
his trip there seem like a horrible nightmare, and that it is all a disgrace
to the American ﬂag.

“ How any humane woman can want to wear a sealskin after hearing
how it is obtained is difﬁcult to understand. We have heard of cases
where the seal butchers were even brutal enough to skin the seals before
they were dead. This last was told by one who also claimed to be an
eye-witness.”—Exz‘mcz‘from “ journal of Zob’phz'ly” of jztly, [894.

“ It is stated of the fur-seal of Alaska (ca/[orizz'nus umz’mrs) , that there is
no knOWn animal, on land or water, which can take higher physical rank,
or which exhibits a higher order of instinct, closely approaching human

intelligence.”——“ Chamhers’ journal.”
FREEMAN, the noted English historian and ‘7 L4\
noble humanitarian, justly declared, "that til.) (/V ' '
awful wrongs and sufferings forced upon the v

innocent, helpless, faithful animal race forms
the blackest chapter in the whole world’s history.’

-—._—_.

.. . 3 j

 




, “Among the noblest in the land,
, 1- (Though he may count himself the least ,)
, That man I honor and revere, '
Who, without faV01, without fear,
‘- In the great city dares to stand ‘
, The fliend of every f11e11dless beast,
‘. And tames with an unshrinking hand
. The BRUTES that wear OUR form and face
1 Tho WEEK-WOLVES of the human race.” 4
—- Longfellow

ated, increased with appalling rapidity until 12,000 were
encountered by the assistant agents.”

The mass of men employed in this slaughtering are
shipped at St. John’s, Newfoundland, and have been
described as “the scum of the earth.” It naturally
requires men who are entirely without sc1uple to engage
in such a business. But who causes the perpetuation of
all this barbarity, this nightmaie of horror rivaling even
the indecent cruelties of the Dark Ages? Simply those
who wear the seal—skins. Every woman wlzo wears 0726’
lads cmzz‘rz'éulm’ lzer quom cf demand. Is it consistent with
any profession of humane feeling? Can it be consistent
with a profession of following the merciful Christ? Can
the compassionate One be indifferent to such treatment
of His innocent creatures? Nay; let us rather ﬁnd the
answer in the words of the poet, Robert Buchanan :—

 

“ Who cometh out of the sea
Wrapt in his winding sheet?
He who hung on the Tree
With blood on his hands and feet,—
On the frozen isles he leaps, and lo, the sea-lambs round him bleat !

“ They gather round him there,
He blesses them one and all,—
On their eyes and tangled hair
His tears of blessing fall;
But he starteth up and he listeneth, for he hears the hunter’ 5 call 1

“ Blind with the lust of death
Are the red hunter’s eyes,
Around him blood like breath
Streams to the silent skies,—
Slain again ’mong the slain sea-lambs the white Christ moans and
dies !

“ And the hunter striding by,
Blind, with no heart to feel,
Laughs at the anguish’d cry,
And crushes under his heel
The head of the Christ that looketh up with the eyes of a slaugh—

ter'd seal! ”

M. F. LOVELL.

 

This leaﬂet can be obtained at the OFFICE OF THE WOMEN’S PENNA. S.
P. C. A., 1530 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA. Price, 45 cents per
hundred, postage paid.

 




