< .- - .. A w-»~—~—7:._. —.WMFﬁmw-.__ww . . .~.... A“ mv—V‘v/~——- a.» ~ , ——v< —

 

 

 

 

 

 

November; 193 7 Price 3d.

THE

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photo Eng/3'31} Setter Pup. [john H. Stone, Peckham, S.E.15.

HE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
1 FEATHERSTONE BUILDINGS, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.l
Subscription for One Y ear, poi? free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS” FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND i5 pub/irked inontloly by t/ye National Conneil for Animals’ Welfare at

 
   

I Feat/Jerrtone Buildings, Hzgl) Holborn, London, W. C. I, and all communication: regarding tbs
magazine .rbonld be addresred to the Editor

 

 

Editor : ROBERT H. SPURRIER.
Vol. XLlV November, 1937 No. 1
C O N T E N T S .
Page Page

THE W.G.E. AND THE CHARGE OF THE
LIGHT BRIGADE. T/ye Editor 4
THE “ DAILY MIRROR ” AND PERFORMING
DOGS. R.H.S. . . . . . 6
THE ROE DEER. Ritron Graham 8
PROFESSOR EINSTEIN ON SPORT AND WAR 9
FOUR—FOOTED TRAILSIDE FRIENDS OF
THE ROCKIES. H. M. Laing . . IO
IMPLUME BIPES. Basil Haroey— antes . 15
A LITTLE BROWN BIRD. Hadron Read I4
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK. Onloo/éer I5
MIT—TEN-USK. THE EXCAVATOR—PART 11.

Harper Cory, ECGJ. . . . . I6
A NOTE FROM SWEDEN. Bengt Berg . . I 8
CAMPAIGNING IN FLINTSHIRE. Yvonne

Stott . . . . . . I9
FEATHERED KINE. B. Pollard . . 19

“MICHAEL” E. Coning.r@}r . . . zo

WORLD DAY FOR ANIMALS—GREECE.

W”. Ali/[er . . . . . . 2 2.
ST. FRANCIS DAY CELEBRATIONS. Garratt
Lane Srbool . . . . . . 25
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WEL—
FARE . . . . . . . 24
NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR PROHIBITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS . . . . 25
SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
VIVISECTION . . . . . 26
PIT PONIES PROTECTION SOCIETY . . 27
LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL
SPORTS . . . . . . 28
PERFORMING AND CAPTIVE ANIMALS
DEFENCE LEAGUE . . . . 29
HUMANE EDUCATION LEAGUE . . 30
UNITED HUMANITARIAN SOCIETY . . 51
CORRESPONDENCE . . . . . 3 2

 

 

..

The Nature Cure Hospital Fund.

It is good news to hear from Miss Hosali (41,
Baker Street, London, \V.I.) that premises have been
acquired for the purpose of an III-Patient Hospital.
The Committee has purchased a property which is
described as excellently suited to the purpose in
Erpingham Road, Putney, within a few minutes walk
of Barnes Common. The road is devoid of trafﬁc and
the house possesses a garden which the patients can
use. The proximity to the Common. renders the air
pure and fresh, and the district is sufﬁciently accessible
for practitioners to visit patients as desired.

The Hospital will be opened as soon as structural
alterations, re—decorations, etc., are completed. In the
meantime, needless to say, fund: are nrgentb' required.
A furnishing and equipment appeal has been issued a
copy. of which may be Obtained from Miss Hosali,
in which suggestions are made for the beneﬁt of
those who are wondering in what way they can best
help. ,5 IO, for instance, will purchase an osteopathic
table ; ,1; 3 33. will provide a bedstead, mattress, or ward
locker for a patient. Smaller donations will provide
sheets, blankets, towels, thermometers and so on.

  

 

Bird Notes and News.

The contents Of the Autumn Number of Bird Noter
and New; (R.S.P.B., 82, Victoria Street, S.W.I)
are particularly varied, ranging from Dr. Graham
Renshaw’s account, with coloured illustration, Of the ex-
tinct Corbeau Indien, “ the bird which has always been a
puzzle to everybody,” and ﬁrst instalments of papers.
on the Bird Protection laws of Great Britain and on the
Humming—birds of Jamaica (a charming account by
Mr. W. H. Hamer, with illustrations), to the story Of a.
Bird Sanctuary in Liverpool slums, by Eric Hardy;
hints as to what a bird sanctuary should be, by Sir
C. Tyrrell Giles (to whom the preservation of wild
birds on Wimbledon Common is so largely due) ;
a pleasant eulogy of the Linnet, by T. Hyde-Parker;
and a plea for the Magpie, by Colonel H. S. Wood;
in addition to notes on various topics, correspondence,
book reviews, and other matter. “The Story of Two
Kites ” reveals the struggle for existence of the White-
tailed Kite in the U.S.A., approximating to that of the
Red Kite in Wales.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1V0 vember, 193 7

Notes and Comments

Friends of the “A.F.”

We are very grateful to our friends—and their name
is legion—for their elIorts on behalf of THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND. If all of our readers were as active in making
it known as a friend in the provinces from whom we
have heard recently, its circula—
tion would quickly be enlarged
to a point at which there would
. be no need for a Sustentation
Fund. This friend has induced
the local city library, and the
ladies’ Rest Room of a large
business big house with a large
and widely spread clientele in
which she is herself included,
to accept from her a copy of
THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND month—
ly. She has placed it in the
hands of a ﬁne young Rover
Scout into whose den it
ﬁnds its way each month,
and she has incited the manager of the local bookstall
to obtain the permission of his head office in London
for a regular supply of the magazine on sale and dis-
play along with his other periodicals.

All this has been done by just one of our friends who,
in addition, purchases 8 copies each. month (four
from our ofﬁce and four locally) to distribute and
who writes that she “ Hasn’t yet got within sight ”
of all that she has in mind to do for the ANIMALS’
FRIEND. It is very cheering to an Editor, who at times
is somewhat harassed, to get such a report as this and to
ﬁnd a reader who is willing to put so much time and
effort into helping the animals in this way.

 

A Canine Raft.

From an esteemed correspondent, a member of the
medical profession, we have received a story of un-
usual interest. It is, as related by our correspondent
as follows :—

Here is a little animal episode that I actually
witnessed some years ago and is always fresh in my
mind. At a house by a river with a swiftly ﬂowing
current lived, amongst other pets, a cat and a
dog. But they were not friends. One day the dog,
who loved the water, chased his enemy, the cat,
into the water. The eat, more terriﬁed of the dog
than of the river, swam as best he could but soon
got into difﬁculties in the current. The dog, a
powerful swimmer, followed him. The cat in
desperation climbed, half-drowned, on to the
dog’s back and clung there. The dog returned
to the river’s bank with puss still clinging tightly
to his canine raft. After that time there was no
enmity between friend dog and friend cat. They
shared each others food and were in every way
good companions.

Canine Euthanasia.

A correspondent writes that she really thinks that the
best way to destroy dogs is by the use of the Captive
Bolt Pistol. Her letter goes on :—

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

I had a very old spaniel put away this year (one
of the village dogs.) The R.S.P.C.A. inspector
came out and he described the method. He said
“ The old spaniel had one look around, as he
came out of his shed. The next second he was in
oblivion.” Not a sound or a movement. So I do
not see what could be better.

I have always had my favourite dogs put to
sleep with a hypodermic syringe in the heart.
But though it is quick, the dog has to be muzzled
ﬁrst and seems to know what is going to happen.

A Croydon Councillor’s Courage.

we regret to report that recently the Croydon
Borough Council refused to vote on a motion submitted
by Councillor More in the following terms :

That this Council disapproves of any practice
parading as sport, and including angling competi-
tions, having as their aim the destruction of ani-
mate objects in parks and other properties which
the Council controls.

The exciting cause of the motion was the granting
of facilities for angling competitions by the Croydon
Council in South Norwood lake during the last few
months. Mr. More’s motion is quite in line with the
trend of the times towards the preservation of life and
away from the gun and the itch for destruction,
and it is somewhat surprising, to say the least of it, to
ﬁnd such a motion received with ridicule in a Council
which, we believe, considers itself to be enlightened
and forward looking, and referred to as “ drivel.”
And if this is not enough, there is the refusal of the
Council to take a vote on the motion after an Alderman
had given it as his august opinion—we quote from the
local press—“ I think such a matter should be passed
over without discussion.”

The report of the discussion carries one back almost
120 years to the sounds of the shouts of inane laughter
and ridicule which drowned Richard lVIartin’s voice
when in 1821 he introduced into the House of Commons
his bill to prevent the ill—treatment of horses and other
animals, and it is shocking to ﬁnd the spirit of that
House and time animating members of the Croydon
Council in this year of grace 1937.

W e offer our congratulations to Councillor More on
his courage and are glad to note that Councillor
Maycock raised his voice to protest at the treatment
meted out to his colleague.

“ The Emerging Faith.”

The name and fame of Basil Harvey-James are not
unknown to readers of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, and there
are some who will be interested to hear that he is leading
a discussion circle on Dr. Bridge’s new book on the
above subject. The discussion circle is held under the
auspices of the Young People’s Group of the Ethical
Union and meets at 7 pm. on alternate Thursdays at
12 Palmer Street, S.W.1. The ﬁrst of these meetings
was held October I 3th.

“THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND” FOR 1937.

The new volume will be on sale at The Animals’
Fair—price 45. It contains the issues November
19 36 to October 19 37 both inclusive. The sale will be
opened at 12 noon by George Lansbury, P.C., MP.
It is at The Central Hall, Westminster.

R. H. S.

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

N0 1/67/1567, 193 7

The W. G. E. and “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”

By THE

HE TIAJES, in its
Law Report columns

of October 22nd last,
records the discontinuance
of the action in which
Warner Bros. Pictures In—
corporated and First Na—
tional Film Distributors,
Limited, claimed damages
from the Women’s Guild
of Empire, alleging the
publication of a libel on
them in a letter to the
. British Board of Film
M' Censors, dated July 16th,
1936. The action arose out of comment on
the ﬁlm, “ The Charge of the Light Brigade.”

This is what we anticipated would happen,
for we have never been able to bring ourselves
to the belief (in view of the convictions re—
corded in America against an Assistant Direc—
tor for causing cruelty, and two riders for
injuring their horses, in the course of the pro—
duction of an episode in this ﬁlm), that the
plaintiffs would be anxious to submit them-
selves to searching examination and cross—
‘examination by clever counsel with regard to
these incidents. In the course of such examina—
tion, no doubt, the episode would be ex—
plored and the use made in ﬁlm production
of such devices as the pitfall and the tripping
wire, known as the Running \W., would be
thoroughly canvassed and given. publicity
in the press of this country. The abandon—
ment of the action, of course precludes this
publicity, and for this reason we regret that
it has been discontinued. This regret, we
believe, is shared by the Women’s Guild
of Empire, who would have been delighted
to have had the whole question explored,
including the action taken by the British Board
of Film Censors in the matter.

The position as it is disclosed by the dis—
continuance of the action in our opinion
constitutes a serious greivance, for surely it is
against the public interest if a responsible
Society or individual can be held up, for an
indeﬁnite period, from commenting publicly
upon a matter involving the fair treatment
of animals, by the institution of legal pro—
ceedings—proceedings for which there ap—

 

4

EDITOR.

pears to be no substantial ground and which
may be abandoned when the purpose for
which they were instituted has been served.

The question, of course, arises as to whether
the W.G-.E. exceeded in its letter to the British
Board of Film.Censors, with the accompanying
press cutting, the legitimate bounds of fair
comment on a matter of public importance.

We are of opinion that the statement in The
Timer 1—-

The truth of the statements in the Press
cutting never having been an issue, the
plaintiffs were content to discontinue the
action and to pay the defendants’ costs.
(Times, October 22nd.)

speaks for itself. A plaintiff, however wealthy
he may be, does not as a rule voluntarily
abandon his case if he can make it good, and,
in addition, offer to pay the defendants’ costs
without some good and sufﬁcient reason.
Perhaps the reason in this case is not uncon—
nected with the fact that the truth of the
statements in the press cutting were never
at issue. That issue could hardly have been
excluded from hearing had the case been
pursued. The cutting referred to is, we
believe, that published in THE ANIMALs’
FRIEND of September, 1936.

\Why was the action ever brought and why
was it abandoned? Was it brought in order
to intimidate other Societies and inhibit free
comment on the press cutting? Is there any
signiﬁcance in the fact that the withdrawal
is announced at a time when the ﬁlm in
question has been the round of the cinemas
in this country? These are questions that
are being asked. No one but the plaintiffs
are in a position to answer these questions at
ﬁrst hand. We cannot. Will they answer
them? Our columns are open to their reply.

There is another point of public interest
and importance arising out of these proceed—
ings. This is the action of the British Board
of Film Censors in the matter. ‘

The ground on which action was taken
against the \V.G.E., and on which damages
were claimed, was a letter, with an accompany—
ing press cutting, written by the Guild to the
Board. Surely this was the appropriate
authority to whom a complaint should be
made? Despite its anomalous position and




 

 

 

 

 

rVoyambeI; I93 7

constitution, it is the authority upon whose
certiﬁcation of ﬁlms the cinemas and local
authorities for the most part rely. A [Jana fia’e
complaint of cruelty made to the Board should
surely be a privileged document, and Mr.
Croom—Johnson, for the W.G.E., emphasised
in his statement in court the fact that the
\V.G.E. was an incorporated body interested.
in social questions, and its officials had felt
it their duty to send the press cutting to the
Film Censor for investigation. Further, he
pointed out that the defendants contended
that the publication was privileged as being
in the discharge of a moral and social duty.
This is a matter of concern to other than
friends of animals and animal welfare societies.
\We must confess that in our opinion the
Board Committed an unwarrantable action in
passing on the complaint to the plaintiffs. Are
complaints made to the Board with regard to
speciﬁc cases of cruelty to animals in ﬁlm
production to be made the subject of libel
action against the individuals or societies who
may make them in all good faith?

What is the attitude of the Board in this
matter? Is it unfair to judge it in the light of
the concluding paragraphs of a letter which we
ourselves received from the Censor’s ofﬁce in
January of this year, in reply to our request
that the Board should give a serious consider—
ation to the ﬁlm in question with a view to
refusing it the Board’s certiﬁcate?

The paragraph in question reads :—

January 25rd, 1937.

It might interest you to hear, quite privately,
in connection with this ﬁlm, that the Pub—
lishers, Messrs. First National Film Distri—
butors, Ltd, have, through their Solicitors,
Messrs. Denton, Hall and Burgin, issued a
\Vrit against one Organisation, claiming
damages and an Injunction to restrain them
from continuing to write or publish certain
libels in connection with the taking of the ﬁlm
and the Defendant Company gave an under—
taking that they would not repeat the sub-
stance of the libels complained of until the
time of action.

This letter was signed by “ J. Brooke
\Wilkinson ” as Secretary of the Board.

We interpreted this at the time, rightly or
wrongly, as a veiled intimation to “ watch
our step ” if we did not wish to ﬁnd ourselves
in the position of the other organisation
referred to.

The present position seems to us to be an
intolerable one both as regards the law of
libel and the Film Censorship, and surely the

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

time has come for a big movement to bring
about drastic reforms, both in the interests of
animals and human beings alike.

We heartily congratulate Mrs. Flora Drum—
mond and the W.G.E. on their successful
challenge to the serious action with which
they were threatened in their championship
of the Rights of Animals. ‘

George Morland

(1763-1804)

HERE is no man who has depicted the

I animals of rural England with such
feeling as George Morland. He was

born in a comfortable family, started drawing
at 7 years, exhibited at the Royal Academy at
10 years. He studied under his painter father,
and whilst with him studied hard from nature,
and copied prints and drawings by eminent
artists. He copied prints of horses, pigs,
and dogs. Later he drew from memory the
objects seen on his walks. At 19 he broke away

from parental control and lived his own life.

Drawing—room art did not interest him.
Morland mixed with jockeys, ostlers, carters,
gypsies. A contemporary complains that
Morland was intelligent and “ had he em-
braced the friendship of those persons of
intellect and sound integrity who wished to
serve him, he might have been an ornament
to society.”

He had great drinking bouts, was always in
debt, and he worked hard. In the last 8 years
of his life he produced 900 paintings and over
1,000 drawings. He recorded the life of the
parlour, the pig sty, the stable, and the inn.
His pictures showed an acute observation of
nature.

He painted horses, cows, bulls, sheep,
poultry, asses, dogs, and he depicted them all
with individuality. Morland conveys the rough
and hard rural life, but with exquisite feeling.
Of all his farm animals, perhaps his horses are
the most superb.

There is in existence a note given by the
painter promising to paint a sign—board in
payment for food and drink supplied to him
by a landlord : .
1796 Bald Farea’ Stag.

Jagy 5152‘.

I pro/wire 2‘0 paint for the landlord of flair
place a Piaf/are of a Farmyard wit/.2 13ng aaa’
area for #96 77207291 I 022/6 lam forFoaa' aaa’
Drz'a/e waif/e Maj/jag az‘ Hi5 Home.

G60. Mar/am].
E. G. B.

32

 




       

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

ANY readers of the Da/Zy [WWW

. who have come to regard that paper

as sympathetic to the movement for
the protection of animals against cruelty must
have been startled and dismayed. by the picture
of “ Tops,” a performing dog, with the accom-
panying letterpress which appeared in the
[WWW of October 7th.

The picture shows the dog balancing,
upside down, with a single paw on his master’s
thumb, six feet above the ground. If the
Mirror’s comments on this performance had
constituted a protest against this unhappy
exhibition—perhaps the most objectionable
of all dog turns to humanely—minded people—
no one would have been surprised, for it would
have been in keeping with the reputation that
the [VIM/07r has been gaining for its opposition
to the cruel exploitation of animals. Unfor—
tunately the comments were of a commendatory
character, and we are told that Tops, “ after
a half—somersault in mid air, will land on the
small platform provided by his master’s
clenched fist,” the “ real secret of Tops’s
tricks ” being “ that he has absolute conﬁdence
in his master,’ who, with patience and perse—
verance, gets him to do amazing feats.

Readers of the Mirror who know something
about dogs and the methods of their training
for unnatural performances, would be amused
at the [Mil/7’07"; naive conﬁdence in the “ real
secret” of Tops’s turns, if it were not so
tragic. Has the Mz'rmr’r representative been
present throughout the actual training of
this dog (which must have been a process of
many months of severe discipline), and not
merely present at a rehearsal P—the rehearsal
of a trick that has already been learned in secret
being an entirely different process from the
training of the untaught animal. During a
more or less public rebound, to which repre—
sentatives of the press are admitted, the
methods of training are not exposed.

But the methods of training performing
dogs have been exposed again and again and
they should not be unknown to the ZWrmr.
Take, for instance, the testimony of a witness
recorded in the Blue Book of the Select
Committee on Performing Animals, 1921
(No. 2409).‘ It is as follows :——-

I saw a dog hanging from a trapeze by

3

The “ Daily Mirror ” and Performing Dogs

By THE EDTOR.

  

November, 193 7

 

   
       

its hind legs. . . . He said it was in
order to train the dog that it was suspended
by the hind legs ; when the legs got
tired the trainer put his hand underneath
the fore—paws to ease the hind legs .

so that the animal would eventually ﬁnd
by balancing himself upright he would
be in no pain in the hind legs. He told
me that the dog was hung up like that for
a certain time every day.

Another method has been described in a
sworn statement by an ex—circus hand, who
stated in the following passage:

The back somersault is very cruel. In
training, the dog has one strap wrapped
very tightly round the middle of body,
and another leading from centre of this
strap to collar at neck; the strap round
collar has double tongue, and when the
dog makes an attempt to stand up the
second strap tightens and would strangle
the dog if it did not turn somersaults.

It is sometimes urged that “things have
changed,” and that methods of training
described in the above—quoted evidence have
been displaced by more humane means. But
have canine psychology and canine anatomy
so changed that a dog can be taught by kind.—
ness and patience, by the reward of tempting
tit—bits, to give a public exhibition of a turn
that is utterly foreign to its canine tempera—
ment and canine constitution P The answer
to this question may be adjudged by the
response of trainers to the challenge issued
by Miss Naomi Jacobs. In Ale—Ag.«7ii7,
published a few weeks ago, she writes :—

Last year, at a public meeting, I offered
£100 to any animal trainer who would
allow me to bring a dog to him, untrained.
He was to train this dog, get it ready for
the ring or the theatre; I was to be
present at all lessons, and I was never to
leave that dog for a moment day or night.
. . . If at the end of these lessons there
had been no sign or trace of cruelty, I
would hand over £100 and write an
apology to the trainer for having doubted
his kindness and integrity.

At present Tops is performing with a troupe
of other dogs in America, and is, we are told,
drawing crowds at theatres all over the

 




A

 

 

A
‘—

 

 

 

iVO ye/izber, I 93 7

United States; we are wondering if thepress
publicity given to his turn heralds his appear—
ance in this country. If the owner and trainer
of Tops do come over here, will they accept
Miss Jacobs’ challenge? It is still open. “ This
year,” she writes, “ I again made the same offer,
not once, but many times,” and, she continues :
I am still waiting for one trainer to

come forward and accept my offer. And,
mark this, I shall go on waiting, because

I have made conditions which I know,
and which they know, cannot be fulfilled.

We hope that the Aﬁrrer, if it has not already
done so by the time that this article appears
in print, will withdraw its approval of the act
in question. In the meantime we acknowledge
with many thanks to the Alirrer Appeal Fund
(and to all our friends concerned who have
earmarked their tokens for the purpose)
a cheque for the sum of {4 105. 0d., being the
redemption of 10,800 tokens, to the funds of
the N.C.A.W.

R. H. S.

Urefa/ literature 072 tbe trainiag of Performing Animals
earl be obtained from Our Dumb Friemlr’ League, tbe

Per/brilliag am] Captive Amara/r Defeaee Leagae, and
tbe R ..S'.1’.C,'. l .

The Animals’ Friend

Museum

Cock-fighting.

A poultry journal of recent date, in pre-
senting a coloured plate by a
sporting artist, depicting two
“ masterly pictures of our national
fighting fowl” states that the
artist’s works “ will live after
him so long as medd/emme moderbiym
fails to turn the sporting instinct
out of the Briton’s breast.” Cer—
tainly the epithet is modern, at
one time opponents of cock-
fighting were termed “ sentimen-
talists ” !

Duck Hunting.

The cock was not the only
farmyard fowl to provide sport.
Such names as “ Barking Pom!
blew ” and “ Dog and Dame Imi ”
remind us that even the humble
duck was used. Duck hunting
was a popular sport. Charles II
is said to have frequented this Photo by)

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

this entertaiment. The sport was to set a dog
to catch a duck and to watch the duck dive
to escape the jaws of its pursuer.

Beaver.

The Beaver—the Royal Engineer of the
Animal World, as Harper Cory has termed
him—was at one time common throughout
the British countryside. But by the end of the
thirteenth century the British beaver was
exterminated. A relic of this animal is shown
in various place names :

Beverley in Yorkshire.

Beavercoats in Nottinghamshire.

Beaverstone in Gloucester.

Beaverbrook in Wiltshire.

Beverley Brook in Surrey.

U.S.A. boasts three towns named Beaver
and one Beaver Falls. E. G. B.

A Hundred Years Ago.

Excerpt from Tbe Obeerver of January Ist,
18 37. “ During the past week the whole coun—
try has been visited by a fall of snow heavier,
and more painful in its consequences, than has
been experienced for many, many years.
Many mail coaches were embedded in drifts.
All the omnibuses from Paddington, Highgate,
Hampstead, Stratford, and Hackney were
drawn by three or four horses, and several
accidents happened on Monday and Tuesday,
many horses having died on the road.”

ONLOOKER.

Let no .rma/beerr retard tbee; if tbea beest not a eedar
to be/p toward; a palace, if tboa beert riot amber, bezear,
rmr liquid gold, to rertere primer; yet tboa are a sbrab
to .rbe/ter a lamb or to feed a bird ; 0r tbeit are a platitairz
to care a ebi/d’r rmart, or a gram to care a dog.

JOHN DONNE (1572—1631).

 

“ OM P415,” (P. Philips, Ipswich.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

N0 vambzr, I93 7

The Roe Deer

A NATIVE OF CUMBERLAND.

BY RITSON GRAHAM.

HE elegant little Roe Deer has survived
Tin Cumberland from prehistoric days

when its ancestors roamed the forests
here with the scantily—clad Briton, armed with
ﬂint—pointed spear and stone hunting—knife in
eager pursuit. Throughout the succeeding
ages the old English Roe Buck became fewer
and ﬁnally extinct over the rest of the country,
but the Cumbrian stock survived, and do so
to this day.

For this fortunate circumstance we are
indebted to the ancient estates of Naworth
and Netherby, where extensive woodlands
provided sanctuary at a time when the crea—
ture’s struggle for existence was greatest.

Not that the Roe were parked or protected in
any way, their shy, retiring habits and wander—
ing disposition renders this impractical, but
security and an ideal environment was pro-
vided and was owned by powerful, as well as

sport loving, families. Thus the defenceless
and diminutive deer lived on through the
lean times of the dark ages to present day
prosperity. '

In 1618 and again in 1655 the Royal Court
of Charles I received consignments of Roe
Deer from Cumberland, 32 fawns being dis—
patched from Naworth Castle to the Metropo—
lis on the last named date under the care of
six men and seven horses; a remarkable
undertaking in those days of difficult and
dangerous travel.

Despite the fact that the Roe Deer is now
occupying most of our largest woods and
coppices, it is not well known; the larger Red
Deer and the imported Fallow Deer are more
familiar. The two last named are, or used to
be, frequently seen in the parks of country
seats and are thus brought more in the public
eye than the truly wild Roe which keeps to the
interior of the quiet woodlands where if but
slightly alarmed it swiftly moves off to a place
of greater security. ,

But the Roe Deer need never be confused
with these two others ; it is by far the smallest
of the three, measuring only 26 inches in
height, or about the size of a goat, also unlike
the Red and Fallow, the Roe does not usually
associate in companies of more than four or
ﬁve. The antlers of the buck or male Roe Deer
are but 9 or 10 inch upright spikes with two
or three short “ points ” branching off ac—
cording to age.

But the deﬁnite distinction about the Roe
Deer, and one upon which much confusion
exists, is its genuine feral state, or wildness.
It must never be associated with park railings
or artiﬁciality of any kind. The Roe possesses
the same status in our wild—life as the Hare or
Otter and though man may have indirectly
confered certain beneﬁts on the Roe, yet
indirectly he does much to keep the creature
in check.

Many Roe Deer are shot on account of the
damage they do to young trees by “ barking ”
the stems and eating out the growing heads,
but except where tree growing is practised
commercially the animal does little or no
harm to either the farmer or forester. At the

 




 

 

 

 

 

November, 193 7

present time the Roe is increasing and spread—

ing throughout the woodlands of Cumberland ;
from its ancient strongholds at Naworth and
Netherby,, and the Eden Valley between
Armathwaite and Lazonby, it has extended its
range in almost every direction.

The followers of foxhounds find the little
deer upsetting their sport where formerly
its presence was undetected; whilst game—
keepers and others repOrt the Roe from locali—
ties where they never knew it before. No
one who is familiar with the beautiful Roe
Deer and its general harmlessness will regret
this increase, it is at once the most elegant of all
deer and our most engaging native mammal.

It is therefore a pity that the Roe’s great
wariness should render a better acquaintance
difﬁcult, for all one usually Sees of the ﬂeeting
animal is the broad white buttocks as they ﬂash
conspicuously in the dim woodland light, or
by chance a solitary individual poised at a
distance alertly. surveying the intruder.

A creature of so secretive behaviour can, and
often does exist unsuspectedly in many
woodland districts.

Recently a pair took up their abode in the
Carlisle Nature Reserve at Kingmoor from
where a former notable Carlisle naturalist
reported a similar occurence as long ago as
1885.

(The Roe Deer is the smallest of the British deer—a
full—grown buck standing not more than 27 inches
high at the shoulder. The antlers are short, upright
and deeply furrowed, the beam forking at about
two—thirds of its length, and the upper prong again
dividing, thus making three points. The tail of the
Roe Deer is rudimentary. Its coat in summer is foxy
red above and white below; in winter this changes
to a greyish—fawn, with a white rump—patch. It fre—
quents woods, preferring such as have a large growth
of underwood and are in the neighbourhood of cul-
tivated ground. The latter it visits in the evening in
search of food; and where roe are numerous the
damage done to growing crops is considerable.
Pairing takes place in August, but the fawns are not
born till the following May. According to one theory,
the germ lies dormant until December, when it begins
to develop; but it is now believed that this long
gestation is due to slow rather than arrested develop—
ment. Roe were formerly abundant in all the wooded
parts of Great Britain.

The above particulars of the Roe Deer are taken from
the Encyclopaea’ia Britannica 11th Edition.)

W’ben tbe oneness of life sball be recognised, sncb practices
as [load—sports will be not only cbilclisb bat impossible;
yieisection antbinkable ; ana’ tbe bate/my of our fellow animals
3 .% its/food amntgronln absurdity of tbe past.

~/) ‘ 1'". ' ‘ .
’ H. S. SALT.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Professor Einstein 011

Sport and War

E are indebted to Mr. Bertram Lloyd
ig/ for the very interesting letter from
Professor Einstein, in which he en-
dorses the views advanced by Henry S. Salt
in the pamphlet Two Sinzilar Pastimes: Sport
and [War as “ essential to any truly humane
outlook on life.” This pamphlet is one of the
excellent publications issued by the National
Society for the Abolition of Cruel. Sports.
The letter reads :—
" The Institute for Advanced Study,
School of Mathematics,
Fine Hall, Princetown.
New Jersey. ‘
213t August, 1937.
DEAR SIR,——I am wholeheartedly in agree-
ment with the views expressed in the pamphlet
TWO S irnilar Pasti/nes: Sport and War (by
Henry S. Salt.) These views, indeed, seem to
me to be essential to any truly humane outlook
on life. Nature has implanted a love of
slaughter in predatory animals ; and from those
animals we ourselves are no doubt descended.
Nevertheless this instinct seems to become
extinguished in man when he has lived for
thousands of years under civilised conditions.
Only thus can I explain my strong and very
definite abhorrence of blood—sports, while
at the same time I see that they produce the
very opposite reaction in the minds of so
many of my fellow men—who however,
usually only look back upon a very much
briefer period of their ancestors’ civilisation.
This deep—seated difference, I am well
aware, is nothing less than tragic for people
of my way of thinking. It obviously in—
cludes not only our attitude to the animal
world, but also the whole question of man’s
humanity to his fellows—as is indeed so
truly and trenchantly pointed out by the writer
of the essay.
Yours faithfully,

(Signed) A. EINSTEIN.

Bertram Lloyd Esq,
National Society for Abolition of Cruel
Sports, 4., Tavistock Square, London,
W.C.I.

Peace cannot be secured by itself; its attaznnzent 222i
depend on kins/sip in all departments of life; on tbe way in
wbicb nzen regard and treat tbeir fellow beings generally.

H. S. SALT.

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

November, 193 7

F our-F ooted Trailside Friends of the Rockies

Tbis faseinating artiele, fro/n wbieb several paragrapbs bane been ornitted, was publisbed in tbe

Canadian Geographical Journal of April of tbis Year.

fonr of tbe series of pbotograpbs by wbieb it was

Geograpbieal Soeiety and tbe Editor of tbe journal.

Parks, Canada.
BY HAMILTON

9.299

Tbe want/ed gronnd sqnirre/ is a gown/and, a persistent
ranzp follower and “ bang arozmd ” at tbe inonntain botels

and tea roan/s.

N addition to the impressions of charming,

stupendous scenery the summer visitor

to the Rockies usually carries home with
him pleasant recollections of meetings with the
wild creatures of these high places. That is,
he usually does if hehappens to have the
understanding eye and heart for such things
and is not one of those mere “ sightseers ”
who stop off between trains, take the cut—and—
dried bus ride somewhere, and imagine that
they have seen the mountains. It takes a little
more time of course than that to get even
an acquaintance with the life of such a wonder—
ful region; but there is no place where it can
be learned so quickly as in the National
Parks. The animals even more than the birds
respond to kind treatment, and all, from
chipmunk to moose or mountain goat, are
very much more prone to give the visitor an
interview than such animals would do in the
wilds outside park. sanctuary.

As a matter of fact, the visitor often has a

10

 

It is reprodneed bere, togetber witb
illnstrated, by kind perrnission of tbe Canadian
Pbotos by H. XVI. Laing and National

M. LAING.

hard time not to get acquainted with some of
the four—footed folk. During the earlier
part of the season—late spring or early summer
—the motorist may have to slow his car to
avoid collision with black bear or mountain
ram right on the King’s highway. At the
Chateau Lake Louise he is liable to see a fat
mantled ground squirrel that, growing tired
of nipping the gardener’s broad acreage of
Iceland poppies before the door, runs inside
to investigate the furniture of the palatial
interior. At the Lodge in Jasper he may sit at
evening on the veranda and, while enjoying
his after—dinner smoke, and with the orchestra
at his ear, watch the beaver, no less, dis—
porting out on the lake before the door.
At the larger mountain hotels there usually
are a half—dozen black bears hanging around—
mendicants, lazy beggars looking for a feed,
preferring to eat the refuse than work in the
woods for an honest living.

But fine as it is to see these large animals at
close quarters, to many nature lovers such
creatures when tame lose something. It is so
unexpected, they are not what we thought
them to be. And this applies more particularly
to the big game animals—the buck mule deer or
bighorn ram in the middle of a paved road,
the bear begging at mountain tearoom or the
back door for a hand—out like any other
“ weary ” ; but luckily there are many other
animals in the mountains that, while tame
enough to allow observation, still carry on at
their jobs just as they did before parks were
surveyed or roads and trails built into these
lofty fastnesses. There are the chipmunks
and ground squirrels, red squirrels and flying
squirrels, weasels, mink, marten and other
fur bearers, the porcupine, the pika and
whistler and others that are all trailside
acquaintances of an aloof sort, animals at
home and in the original unspoiled by civilisa—
tron.

It may be said, however, in justice to
the big game, that the Rocky Mountain goat
is an independent old codger not given at all to
tolerating friendship with man. He will

 




 

Ala uember, I 93 7

always be “in the original.” The moose too,
while grown well used to motor cars and pack
trains and humans afoot, yet keeps his distance,
as though he considers that the difference
between man in parks and outside their
boundaries is a gap too narrow to be easily
seen.

Several species of the smaller mammals
come to man in the wilderness for two reasons :
they secure a measure of safety from natural
enemies and they like man’s foods. Thus the
little chipmunk is ever a man follower;
so is the mantled ground squirrel and Colum-
bian ground squirrel. Wherever the pack
train goes there you are liable to meet these
little fellows. For one and all they'love the
meaty oat, and wherever grain is fed to horses,
there will be found good pickings for these
keen-nosed, nimble-ﬁngered chaps who ﬁnd in
such provender a prize rich beyond a dream of
what they could secure from the seed of any
alpine plant of their mountains.

The little moutain chipmunk is a slender
chap with a long tail—quite different from the
larger eastern relative. He is usually seen
along the timbered trail, where there "are

openings and abundant sunshine. His very ‘

striped coat suggests sunlight and shadow.
Usually we ﬁnd him sitting up on a root or
scampering along a fallen tree or posing on a
rock—always close to some obstruction, for
though he can dig holes he prefers a ready-
made retreat. As a tree climber he is almost
as nimble as a red squirrel, and he is the
hardest working little fellow in the mountains.
He comes out early in spring, stays out late in
autumn, or till the returning snows drive him
to his den, and his whole summer seems spent
in busy search for seed provender to ensure
him a living through the long winter.

A much larger, fatter and lazier fellow
is the mantled ground squirrel, an animal
that because of his stripes is usually called
a “ big chipmunk.” He is a gourmand and
loves to haunt the back yard of summer
hotel or tearoom or temporary camp and
stuff himself with almost every sort of eatable
he can ﬁnd. He grows tame to the point of
familiarity, and will eat out of hand after a
lesson or two. There is some point to his
fatness, for, unlike the true chipmunk, he
sleeps the winter through, dormant like the
_ groundhog, and as he retires early he must go
to bed fat. When in his home he is most
secure around the rock-slides ; in fact he is one
of the real rock-slide mammals ﬁnding here a

11

THE ANIMAL-5’ FRIEND

 

Wherever tbe pack barre: lJm/e been ﬁll their oatr, there
will be fenn/l the little mountain Cln'pnznnk.

castle—safety from his many foes. For his is a
hard world and there are hawks and owls
and the golden eagle to be outwitted, and
death stalks him also in the form of weasel,
coyote and other predators that are ever in
quest of such a toothsome meal.

The Columbian ground squirrel, another
common trailside acquaintance, is a big fellow
and may always be told from the foregoing at a
glance. The mantled ground squirrel wears
broad black stripes down his yellowish coat,
and a reddish mantle, that gives him his name,
over head and neck, whereas the Columbian
is, generally speaking, a grey—coated fellow.
Another pronounced difference is that the

mantled is almost a silent animal, whereas

the Columbian is always whistling his shrill
alarm. This partly may be due to his un—
trusting disposition. For usually at sight of
man he rushes to his nearest den, there to
pause and voice shrill disapproval, but refusing
to hole up till he has to, and it takes a deal of
patience usually to teach one of these animals
to eat out of hand—a feat easy with chipmunk
or mantled. squirrel. .

Perhaps there is good reason for the
Columbian squirrel’s fearsomeness. He has
long supplied a good part of the meat bill

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

to many mountain predators. Even the huge
grizzly used to take great delight and con—
siderable proﬁt in digging him from his den
when the squirrel was luckless enough to have
a home in an earth-hole remote from boulders.
That is doubtless why he and the other
mountain small mammals cling closely to the
jumbled rock-slides. The golden eagle too is a
persistent hunter of such small game, and many
a ground squirrel finds himself jerked aloft
in cruel talons and borne off to make a meal
for the two eaglets high up in the eyrie in
some frowning cliff.

Two four—footed mountaineers that greatly
interest the visitor on high trails are the
whistling marmot—usually called “ whistler”—
and the pika or coney. It is the strong clear
whistle of the big marmot usually that draws
attention to him—a loud warning that, like a
high—pitched note from a steam calliope, quite
fills the valley. Very often the author is

distant and unseen, but again he may allow
close approach. Look for him always in the
rock—slides and rocky jumbles of the mountain
sides close to the timber line, and like as not
you will locate him crouching on a boulder, or
may be erect like an immense ground squirrel-—
a huge grey-mantled groundhog,

distant
cousin of our old friend down East that “looks
for his shadow” on groundhog day. This
hoary—mantled marmot is the king of the
groundhog tribes, a very interesting creature
known intimately to but few. A stolid,
stupid-appearing chap, but he is not. In—
deed he is a watchful sentinel of the hills,
and his warning whistle is heeded by all the
four—footed folk. of the timberline country.

The popularity of the strange little pika
is attested by the many names by which he is
known—rock rabbit, coney, little chief hare
and hay—maker. Wherever a mountain trail
crosses a rock-slide there we may see this
comical little grey bit of animation in fur
popping about the rocks. But we are much
more prone to hear him ﬁrst, his hoarse,
nasal squeak being a warning signal of the
high places, as full of meaning as is the steam—
whistle note of the marmot. On account of his
ears and general cut, pika resembles a tiny,
tailless rabbit, but he is neither rabbit nor

hare and merely a distant relative of such. _

\We always see him a bit distantly, for the
places in which he is tame are few. We cannot
decoy him with food as we can the ground
squirrels, as he eats only herbage, and so our
acquaintance ' usually is limited to watching

12'

 

 

N0 Ve‘mber, I93 7

him skipping nimbly over the slide-rock or
posing immovable on his watch-tower.

Of all his titles, that of hay—maker best
applies to him. For he is a maker of hay in
very truth, spending all the late summer and
early autumn in collecting and curing the
herbage at hand to serve as provender during
the long winter. He does not lie dormant as
the whistler or ground squirrel does during
the six months of winter’s siege at these high
elevations, and so he must eat. 80 just as the
chipmunk stores his seeds, so the pika stores
his hay. What a labourer he is too! Every
little tuft of that hay-pile is bought with
labour. Day by day he adds to it, storing his
hay under sheltering rocks, where it dries
slowly and cures as perfectly as the fodder
in any human mow. Rock—slide and mow of
course will be buried for months, often under
many feet of snow, but pika will be safe and
happy in a full larder. A strange and interesting
little fellow; indeed of all trailsidc friends
of the Rockies, he perhaps is least known and
most worthy of acquaintance and study.

The lV/Jid‘l‘k’f 2'5 alwqyr about #36 rock-$1M“ and
rocky jumble: of the mountain rider close to 1/16 timberline.

 




 

 

 

1V0 uember, I93 7

Implume Bipes

BY BASIL HARVEY-JAMES.

PEECH_and a sense of humour are two
S other attributes often declared to be
exclusively human. This may be ques-
tioned also and without citing mechanical
examples like the speech of the parrot or
the laughter of the hyena. “ Animals possess,”
wrote Hebbel in his Diaries (1862) “ the whole
gamut of emotional sensation in common with
men and that vocal gamut is the root of all
language.” Compare from Shelley’s Revolt
of Islam 1——
From many a a’ale
Tbe antelopes wbo floe/éea’ for food bane spoken
Wit/7 bapgy sonna’sanil motions, tbat aoail
Like man’s own speeeb.

See also Henry Salt’s Voices of tbe Voieelessz—

Tbe fields were full of summer sonna’ ;
Tbe lambs were gail} bloating;

Small birds were gossiping aronna’,
Tbeirjoyfnl news repeating;

In tones ooeiferonsb/ clear,
Rooks ebatterea’ ooerbeaa’.

“ Sweet ereatnres; How I lone to bear
Dnmb animals,” sbe saia’.

The sense of mischief in a monkey surely
nearly approaches a sense of humour, and I
am sure this can be. supplemented by many of
my readers with true anecdotes from their
personal experience about dogs, cats and other
of the higher vertebrates. '

Am I then trying to suggest that there is no
difference between man and the other animals?
I am attempting nothing of the sort. But I
maintain that the difference is one of degree
and not of kind. ‘

And what of Man? Having criticised
Byron and Schopenhauer for their gloriﬁcation
of the other animals at Man’s expense, I may
appear to be have been caught in the trap
myself. But to think of animal kinship without
the essential brotherhood of Man is “ vanity
of vanities ” indeed. It is strange for instance
that so great a thinker and so intense an animal
lover as Kipling should have so little Inter—
nationalism in his composition. Without
regarding Man as the king-pin of the Universe
or as the overlord of animal life, we can still
appreciate his wonderful history on this
planet. We have to consider a species that

'13

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

has produced some of the great individuals
portrayed by me and others in these pages of
THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND—a seer like Francis of
Assisi, a poet like Shelley, a scientist like
Franz Gall. But though I have quoted
abundantly from “ great figures,” it is not only
with the great that I am concerned. “ What a
piece of work is a man ! How noble in reason !
How inﬁnite in faculty! in form, in moving,
how express and admirable! in action, how
like an angel ! in apprehension how like a god !
the beauty of the world! the paragon of ani—
mals ! ”

Now it may well be that there are supra-
sensible beings in the cosmos who transcend
Man as he transcends the other animals,
but I am reserving that problem for future
consideration. But whether or no there be
superhuman forces Humanity is, at least on
this planet, the highest phenomenal and objec—
tive form of life and being. Consequently his
responsibilities are enormous. It would be
well then to examine the forces that make for
progress and the outlook that man individually
and collectively should take on the grand
drama of Life. Some would say that religion
was the great force for progress, others the
emancipation from religion. Some again
would postulate ordered government: yet
others a spirit of eternal revolt from govern-
ment. I suggest that all that is comprised in
the word humaneness is at once humanity’s
greatest healing and creative force. Thus the
double use of the word “ humanity” is far
from fortuitous. We should however safe—
guard ourselves a little against such words as
pity, which may become somewhat maudlin
and tend to the love of men and animals only
if they are downtrodden and oppressed, and
in proportion as they are so.

On the other hand the paeans on “ Life ”
of such eminent poet-philosophers as Whitman
and Nietzche are apt to be a triﬂe too bracing
in their buoyancy, and I would like to submit
a few “ views ” of life from some other gentler
though far from timid souls. John Galsworthy
in his Saints Progress strikes the note of a
courageous pessimism. “ These are times of
action. Philosophy seems to mean nothing
nowadays. The one thing is to hate tyranny
and cruelty, and protect everything that’s
weak and lonely. It’s all that’s left to make
life worth living, when all the packs of all the
world are out for blood.”

Edward Carpenter, while throwing away so

C2

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

much that appeals to the average man, takes a
less “ underdog ” view of the real values of
life. “ Only two things,” he wrote, “ are
really worth living for—the glory and beauty
of human love and friendship. All
the nonsense about riches, fame, distinction,
ease,_luxury, and so forth—~how little does it
amount to? ”

“ What seems to me to grow fairer,”
wrote John Richard Green, the historian,
“ as life goes by is the love and grace and tender—
ness of it; not' its wit and cleverness and grand—
eur of knowledge—grand as knowledge is—but
just the laughter of little children, and the
friendship of friends, and the cosy talk by the
ﬁreside, and the sight of ﬂowers and the sound
of music.” And he might have added “ the
companionship of the beasts.”

Alastair Davis in his sonnet Life writes in
similar though more mystic vein :—

Ifyou will live unloek the gates of love

Ana’ huitilyourself a house of purest things,

Di gfroin the heartyour dearest treasure—trove

Let aneient loveliness unfold your wings,

Soar to the highest peaks of soul ’s desire

Ana’ win‘you wisa’oinfroin this king of kings.

Another poet, C. R. Cammell, has given us a

sense of the harmony of life that is not ex-
clusively human :—

All that is heautiful, that’s loveliest, sweetest,

Awoke and knew the heauzj/ of its fellow;

Now pause the iinpatient streains, ev’n to
the fleetest,

For now they know the iris’ looks areyellow;

And thou bug/n hua', that in thy leaves
retreatest,

Now first thou knowest how inusieal and
nee/low

The song of hira’s, the huneniing of the hees;

N ow first the hlossoins hlush upon the trees.

I am aware of having quoted a passage of
Richard Jefferies more than once, but as I
know it Can never become “hackneyed,”
I do not hesitate to do so again. “ Full of
love and sympathy for this feeble ant climbing
over grass and leaf, for yonder nightingale
pouring forth its song, feeling a community
with the ﬁnches, with bird, with plant, and
reverently studying all these, and more—how
is it possible for the heart while thus wrapped
up to conceive the desire of crime? ”

Considerations ‘ of the above lead me to
the conclusion that inasmuch as Man is
distinct from other Species of animal life
positive kindness is of paramount importance;

14

N0 vemher, I93 7

inasmuch as Man is one of the animals, the
creed of kinship cannot be too often stressed.

But if we hope with Condorcet to see “ the
human race, freed from its chains, and march-
ing with‘ a ﬁrm tread on the road of truth and
virtue and happiness ” let us also recall with
Professor Santayana that “ when in this
little glow—worm we call man there is so much
going on, what must not all nature contain
in its immensity!” '

A Little Brown Bird

BY HUDSON READ.

HETHER my walks take me along
some lonely lane, by the water—side,

in the wood, or on the moor, I ﬁnd

Jenny-Wren. The small nut—brown bird seems

a permanent resident in certain places, and the
fret of migration does not appear to trouble
its lively disposition. This active feathered
sprite thrives about its homeland acres, and
there ﬁnds food, shelter, and nesting site.

As it searches for food along the mud—
fringed margin of the brook, the bird has the
appearance of a miniature snipe, with its long
slender bill, stilt fashioned legs, and short tail.
One wren I know has its home about an old
lock—house cottage, and creeps in and out the
decaying vegetation like a brown shadow.
At times it delights to play'the watchman in the
orchard, and sounds a rattle alarm. Occasion—
ally, when near his old nest, this wren will sing
a lively trill, as if he desires to capture the
vanished sweetness of his spring song—a
merry laugh among fallen leaves.

Several times a Week a wren visits my bird—
table, but his stay is brief. And I like to hear
his chirp as he drops to the hedge bottom and
disappears like a mouse in the clustered tangle
of undergrowth. Here he looks for' spiders
earwigs, woodlice, and other insects, which
lurk beneath the herbage.

The wren is difﬁcult to detect as it moves
about, for its plumage matches the russet
brown of autumn’s leaves. And one needs to be
a practised watcher to catch a glimpse of the
bird, as it threads through a hedgerow from
the base to crown. This native-wren is known
scientiﬁcally as Trogloib/tes (parvulus) from the
habit, of hopping in and out of caves, as if in
olden days, it was the friend of prehistoric
man.




 

 

 

 

 

2V0 yemher, I93 7

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

From Onlooker’s Note Book

Red o’er the forestpeem the setting Inn,
The line ofhyellon/ [zght a’z'erfast away

That eren/n’a’ the eastern eepse : ana’ chi/Z and (tan
Pal/5 0n the neeer the hrz’ef N onenzher day.

john Keh/e (1792—1 866).

Bought to set Free.

LILLAH MCCARTHY in her book Afyse/f
and My Friends writes on many Occasions of
those brilliant Royal Academicians, Charles
Shannon and Charles Rickets—the inseparables.
The works of Charles Shannon include,
beside his pictures, many ﬁne etchings, and
Charles Rickets designed stage sets for some
of the most beautiful productions of his day,
ending with the entire mounting of St. Joan.

Shannon and Ricketts went abroad, they brought
home countless little presents for me. Beads and
jewels and rag dolls they had brought “ from
little Nubian girls with grape-coloured skin and
eyes like gazelles.” They would buy chameleons

from Egyptian children, only to set them free
again.

War and the Animals.

Guinea—pigs are not pigs, but rodents,
and are natives of South America, where they
were domesticated before the Spanish con—
quest. As one who has always been fond of
these quaint creatures without a tail, it came as
a shock to learn from In a Snngeen’r ]0arna/
1915—1918, by Harvey Cushing, M.D., that
guinea—pigs for experimental purposes be—
came extremely scarce costing about a guinea
apiece in the London market.

Detestable Practice.

CARDINAL MANNING (1808-1892) the pro—
minent Anglican Churchman who joined the
church of Rome and in 1865‘ succeeded
Cardinal Wiseman at Westminster, once
stated in a speech (June ZISt, 1882) :——-

I take the first opportunity that has been
offered to me to renew publicly my ﬁrm determ-
ination, so long as life is granted to me, to assist
in putting an end to that which I believe to be a
detestable practice without scientiﬁc result,
and immoral in itself. I believe the
time has come, and I only wish that we had the
power, legally, to prohibit altogether the practice
of vivisection. Nothing can justify,
no claim of science, no conjectural result, no hope
for discovery, such horrors as these. Also it
must be remembered that whereas these torments,
refined and indescribable, are certain, the result

15

is altogether conjectural—everything about the
result is uncertain, but the certain infraction of
the ﬁrst laws of mercy and humanity.

Nightingale of Japan.;
Thereappears in Japanese school histories
the following little fable :—

Three famous statesmen of the 16th century,
Nobunga, Hideyoshi, and Iyeyashu, were asked
by a philosopher what they would do if 'a nightin—
gale refused to sing. “ I should kill it,” said the
ﬁrst. “ I should force it to sing,” said the second.
The third replied : “ I should wait till it sang.”

Catanthropist.

WILKIE COLLINS (1824—1889) the English
novelist, friend and protégé of Dickens,
achieved success with The Woman in White and
The Moonstone—masterpieces of construction
that set the fashion for mystery tales. In a
letter written (in 1866) to Mrs. Lehmann,
Wilkie Collins coined the word catanthropist :

Oh, I wanted you so in Rome———in the Protestant
Cemetery—don’t start! No ghosts—only a cat.
I went to show my friend Pigott the grave of the
illustrious Shelley. Approaching the resting—place
of the divine poet in a bright sunlight, the ﬁnest
black Tom you ever saw discovered at an in~
credible distance that a catanthropist had entered
the cemetery—rushed up at a gallop with his tail
at right—angles to-his spine—turned over on his
back with his four paws in the air, and said in the
language of cats : “ Shelley be hanged I Come and
tickle me! ” I stopped and tickled him. We were
both profoundly affected.

If I were an M.P.

DODIE SMITH is the real name of the English
playwright C. L. Anthony, who has met with
success with Teaeh Wood, Service and Aatnnen
Croce/y. Her knowledge as a buyer at Heal’s,
Tottenham Court Road, proved of value
when writing Serene. Interviewed by a repre—
sentative of The Star as to what 'she would do
if she were a Member of Parliament :——-

“ I am not at all politically minded,” said Miss
Smith “ and have never had the slightest desire
to stand for Parliament. I do know, however,
that if I had the chance I should certainly abolish
all hunting and vivisection, I am in very grave
doubt if ‘ vivisection has ever really beneﬁted

mankind, and, even if it has, I doubt if mankind
is entitled to such beneﬁt]? -

ONLOOKER.

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Mit-ten-usk, The Excavator

BY HARPER CORY, F.C.G.S.
PART II.

 

 

 

 

 

EPTEMBER drew toward its close
8 and the excavator began to tire of

visiting the female who yelled abominably
because she was in love with him, so he in—
vited her to live with him. She accepted his
prOposal, and her ﬁrst activity after entering
the sett was to make him help her clean out
the burrow; before she was satisﬁed, it was
a very clean place indeed; then she sent him
out to obtain new furnishings.

Mit-ten—usk foraged among the bushes for
mosses, leaves and grasses : he ﬁlled his
fore—arms with such litter and shambled
backward to the sett with his burden. To and
fro he travelled many times until the lady was
satisﬁed, and his labour was well rewarded
when he lay in the springy bed she had made
from his offerings. He showed his pleasure by
allowing her to lie with him at the mouth of a
burrow while he enjoyed the morning sun.

The snow fell and the air was heavy with
frost; Mit—ten—usk felt drowsy, and his mate
was sleepy, too, so they huddled together
on the couch in the sett and slept throughout
the winter; and when the couple wandered
from their couch to sit blinking in the moon-
light on a night in spring, there was still
plenty of meat on their bones.

They were as hungry as ever, and had no
particular preference; they dined that night on
mice and gophers, and rounded off the meal
with a bony snake. Mrs. Mit—ten-usk then
persuaded the excavator to show his skill in

digging, and when he had made a small den

16

1V0 vamber, I93 7

some three feet below the surface, she lined
it carefully with grass and mosses and
made this her permanent home.

Mit-ten—usk however, loved to return at
intervals to his old home, and occasionally he
enjoyed a holiday with Wak-kus in a den on
the nearby hillside. It was while returning
from such a holiday that the excavator left
his trade—mark on a damp footpath which he
crossed. Clearly in the mud were printed four
toe—nails, four toemarks (with a ﬁfth imperfect—
ly marked) and the full inverted heart—shaped
pad of each foot.

A human saw the sign and hastily brought
his dog and spade. Quickly the dog trailed
the badger to his sett, and then the man dug
downward with might and main. Below the
surface Mit—ten—usk dug also, but the human
won and stretched an arm into the hole.
He seized the badger by the fur on the back
of his neck and tugged with all his strength.
The animal dug his claws into the earth and
clung thereto—he might have been fastened
in a vice for all the effect the tugging of the
human had; the man tired of the struggle
ﬁrst and retired with his dog and spade.

The human returned when the moon was at
the full, and Mit-ten—usk, sporting with his
mate, hastily journeyed toward his sett, for
he had smelled the human when yet afar.
There was a heavy rustling of grasses and the
dog barred the path of the frightened ex-
cavator. The dog sprang forward and set his
teeth in the fur of Mit—ten—usk; he gripped the
hide at the back of the neck and tried to shake
the heavy creature who hissed and growled
and snarled venomously.

Mit—ten—usk had his enemy already defeated,
for the dog’s teeth had not touched his ﬂesh.
The badger twisted loosely inside his hide
and sank his teeth in the shoulder of the dog;
his jaws locked automatically. With screams of
agony the dog wrenched and tugged until his
flesh broke and he was free, and away he ﬂed
in terror with an opened shoulder.

The excavator continued to his sett and
descended to his couch, but not to rest.
An angry farmer with his hired help came to
the sett with buckets of water and a gun;
the water they poured into the den while one
stood on guard with pointed gun. They
hoped to ﬂood the burrow so that Mit—ten-usk
would scramble to the surface for air to breathe
and so meet death; thus they would punish
him for defeating the dog who had tried to
kill him.

 




 

 

November, 193 7

The water drove the badger from his den,
but not by way of the burrow which was
watched; the water came rushing down that
hole, so Mit-ten-usk ascended the dry hole
which opened at the roots of some thick low
bushes. Had a dog been present, the badger
would have been scented; as it was he lay
unseen until the humans had retired. Then he
paid a visit to his mate in her new home.

She was not feeling very sociable, and so he
retired quickly from her presence. A few
minutes later he was busy digging a new sett
for himself in the dry gravelly soil, and once
more he built his escalators. This aroused the
curiosity of the mice and gophers to such an
extent that Mit—ten—usk almost came to be
weary of dining, and he was glad of the
opportunity to meet other badgers in the
moonlight and to frolic with them—an
exercise which greatly aided his digestion.

Mrs. Mit-ten—usk was most unpleasant
during the ﬁrst few days of June, but stupid
Mit—ten—usk visited her daily as usual, braving
her wrath because he knew not what his sin
might be. But when she presented him, with
two sons and a daughter on the fifth of June,
he showed so much interest and pleasure that
she lost her ill—humour and accepted the gopher
which he brought to her.

His main task for many succeeding days was
that of catching and transporting food to his
family, but after a few days his mate helped
him in this task. When they had gained in
body and strength he taught his young the
best methods of excavation, and so kindly were
the parents that the youngsters remained in the
den until almost a year had passed. Then the
males decided to excavate setts for themselves
and the female went forth to find her a mate.

And Mit—ten—usk and his mate, seeing that
all was well with their children, allowed them
to wander away from the home; and the old
couple hunted their food together and played
in the moonlight, resuming their courtship
where it had temporarily stopped. Slowly
and clumsily they waddled through the grasses
or worked below ground, asking only to be
left in peace and darkness and mutual affection.

Opinion is divided as to when the Canadian
Badger mates—one school insists that mating
occurs in autumn, while a second school
as emphatically insists that it occurs in the
spring. I am inclined to believe that autumn
is the mating season, and that the squalling
of the female is her love-song.

17

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Like the Bear, the Badger has plantigrade
feet. Its legs are short and stocky, and its
fore—feet are equipped with long, strong claws
for digging; the hind feet lack long claws.
The muscular strength of the fore—feet is
immense.

The lower jaw of the animal interlocks
with the skull to a remarkable degree; this
locking can only be loosened by breaking
the jaw; the ridge of the skull with which the
teeth interlock makes a combination that gives
a terriﬁc grip and hold.

The Badger possesses anal glands, but
they are not used—as in the Skunk—as a
weapon of defence ; what their purpose may be
is as yet unknown.

Although Mit-ten—usk shows a marked
affection for his mate and a liking for the
company of his own kind, he is otherwise an
unsociable creature. His trait of occasionally
living in a fox—lair is probably due to his
need for hurried shelter, while his tolerance
of the Coyote is very likely the result of
of the persistent trailing of the latter seeking
easy meat. Otherwise the Badger seems to
prefer life in the darkness of his own sett,
and shuns all creatures save those he desires
for food.

T196 End.

 

z
5/.
y

.34 , .
111’; 3!,

.v/%

-;“'..,'y'é7/';‘_'" 7’
, £17,145: 2/2" ‘li’
, ' 74 " up I ‘1'
7 a .. _/..‘.

m

\ ‘ ‘ﬁ
A.

\
\

\\ ,.
k ‘:\\\i‘\:\ §\ Fig};

ﬂ
, 3} ‘
.1 ’w
’1 . . if;
//'V . ,"v
47/ 3
i l

// ; J1}. // 57/47
/’ ,,. ‘ :4 ,/,,’,/;x’”

1'!) I Mill/{71 /
J I ' l I, .4 /
”WM/v

"I I,

  
    

  
   

Nam/e 6km};

 

 

.___.—.-. H
—._v_

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS” FRIEND

A Note From Sweden

BY THE FAMOUS BIRD-\WATCHER, BERG.

ENGT BERG, author, bird-photo—

grapher, ornithologist and so- forth, in

a characteristic article in the Stock/701772
Tidwiﬂgar (a leading Swedish daily) for August
515t last, puts forward his views, partly on
the question of bird protection in general,
and partly on the particular case of an Oland
youth who shot a stork.

There have recently been complaints about
the destruction of wild fowl by sea—eagles and
gulls. Bengt Berg admits that he is per—
sonally answerable for having got the sea—
eagle on the list of protected species, but he
defends himself and the eagle by remarking
that if we wish to have sea-eagles nesting in
the country we must be prepared for them to
follow their own way of life. Y“ To whimper
about their cruelty,” he says, “is nonsense,
for, practically speaking, half the animal
kingdom shows the same cruelty,” and
reminds us that Governments are nowadays
bombarding women and children from the air.
According to the author, the protection of
the species in question is still incomplete, and
he admits that landowners ought to be given
some compensation for damage done by the
eagles if we wish to retain these rare- birds as
nesting species. As an» example he points to
the Elk—damage Fund.

Bengt Berg further gives a remarkable
explanation of the fact that the gulls have
become so numerous at KalmarSund that they
are stigmatised as a plague. Ten years ago
he got certain islands to be made sanctuaries
for introduced wild' geese, but was refused
the right to make any estimate of the status
of gulls, though it was to be anticipated that
these would increase enormously under pro—
tection. The result was the expected one.
The gulls increased vastly in number. when
the islands were protected, and became
destructive to the surrounding birds ;'and, in
addition, pushed out on to the ﬁelds in search
of food. Weak and undernourished indi—
viduals hunt for food wherever they can,
e.g., even in strawberry beds.

The author then deals with the question of
the Oland lad who shot a stork on the house—
roofs. Bengt Berg was prepared to accept
the lad’s explanation to the police that he
believed the bird to be a sheld—duck, which

18

November, 193 7

species indeed has a certain likeness to a
Stork, but so much the more strongly does
he give judgment against our lawmakers.
“ Let us reﬂect that our legislature is so
backward that while everyone must submit
to a test before being allowed to drive a
motor—car, any lad who cares to may trot
round with a gun and kill animals without
undergoing any test at all. While a drunken
motorist is punished by imprisonment anyone
can go about wherever he likes with guns
without punishment.”

Bengt Berg hopes, and we with him, that
it is only a question of time before these
things are altered; and he believes that what
is necessary for the purpose is a “strong
Government.” But he becomes pessimistic
on recalling that a member of our legislature
has twice been convicted for ill—treating a
horse. “ Compared with 2772's, what an inno—
cent wretch is thelad who shot a stork on
the house—roof,” he concludes. '

These are strong, but sane words. A non—
party person might well ask how far any
political party has come forward as a champion
of animal protection. ‘

(Tram/died [23/ B. Lloyd from “ Djurréyddel,” Sept,
1937, organ of lVom’em Djmwmmer, Liopra/a, .S'zzr'en’m.)

 

Photo by [Joan Cochrane

57mg and Yong—M'z'ngu/a}.

 

 




 

 

 

November, I 93 7

Campaigning in Flintshire

BY YVONNE STOTT.

HE county of Flintshire despite its
name is a very pleasant land. Tucked
away amongst its valleys or high up on
its hill—tops, overlooking sea and moor,
there are some 108 elementary schools, under

the authority of an enlightened Education

COmmittee who recognise the importance of
Humane Education and who give Mr. and
Mrs. Boyer of the Deeside Animal Welfare
Society ample opportunity for this side of
their work. ‘

Every school has this important subject
woven into its curriculum and once a year
it is emphasised by a distribution of literature
and posters, by a visit to a cinema for a show
of wild life and domestic animal ﬁlms or
by a short talk from a‘ “ foreign” or Welsh
speaker in the schools. An essay competition
follows and ﬁne books on Nature are given to
the prize winners.

This year it was my privilege to be the
“ foreign ” speaker and a right good time did
I have! True, I spoke to 51 schools in 10
days (two were rest days) and covered 520
miles approximately, weaving a humane

‘ educational thread in and out of the villages,

but the interest shown by the children and
the welcome given by the teachers, not to
mention the homelike hospitality of Mr.
and Mrs. Boyer, rewarded me richly for any

expenditure of nerve force and the rather“

tiresome repetition of the same matter.

The tour‘ proved to me once again how
necessary and useful this kind of work is,
there was no doubt at all that the children
had already beneﬁted greatly by previous
and repeated efforts in this direction. In
every school answers to questions showed
a good knowledge of the physical needs of
animals and a ready sympathy with the
subject of the talks “ Friendship between
men and beasts.” It was very encouraging
to hear the word “ freedom” or something
equivalent coming umprompted from the
children in every single school. Several
of the teachers bore testimony to the increase
of humane thought amongst their scholars
and the decline of bird-nesting and other
one—time cruel pastimes of the small boy
(and girl), and the near future should show a
distinct improvement in the lot of the animal
population of Flintshire._ .

l9

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Part of the work was done by Mr. Boyer who
addressed 7 schools, and a Welsh speaker, the
Rev. R. Lloyd Williams, who spoke to 4
schools in Welsh. Making a total of 58 schools
and an audience of 2,420 children.

OTHER. COUNTIES PLEASE COPY.

Feathered Kine

WEE while back I told you about my
Apet cat Peter; now I am writing on

chicks and ducklings. When on a visit
some time ago up in Scotland I was staying
in a quiet little village just eight miles from
Edinburgh; there I reared several chicken
and also siX ducks. I thought them very
sensible, for the hen would bring her brood
into the kitchen and, whilst she had a look
round, the tiny chicks would be having a
great feast off pussy’s porridge, the mother
hen being delightfully pleased! Another
chick, which I named’Biddy, used to come in,
in the afternoon, and sit by the ﬁre; once I
was greatly amazed to see her hop on to a
chair and strut across an old chest, craning
her neck—what to do, think you ?——to listen
to the radio. \X/hen I switched off she would
calmly come back again beside the ﬁre. So
it’s obvious music hath charms even for chicks I
Biddy was very cross with the hen and family
being in the kitchen, and they exchanged
dreadful chatter, which, I greatly fear, were
often swear words.

Now for the ducklings: they were most
interesting whilst changing their colour and
trying to swim. Alongside the cottage ran
a stream of fresh water, and the ducks evidently
gloried in it. Presently came the time for.
my ducklings to take to the water, and OH
they’d waddle, to have good fun, calling all
the way, “ peep, peep, peep ”—their ﬁrst call,
of course. When I used this call they would
instantly leave the stream and follow me across
the ﬁeld, for they'knew there would be a
tit—bit. Being well—behaved birdies, each
would wait their turn and take a piece of
bread from my hand. This greatly amused the
passing villagers, and many folk “ cam doon the
brae ”—Scotch for down the hill—"to see my
wonderful quack quacks! Needless to say,
being so fond of the feathered kine, one soon
gets to understand their funny little ways ; and,
I repeat, I love all animals arid am thankful
to know so much is being done'for the poor,
sick creatures. B- POLLARD. ,

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

“ Michael.”
(Cafr are #962 Spice of Hir life.)
BY E. CONINGSBY.

 

ICHAEL is an Irish Terrier, at least

I \/ I that is the predominating strain;
I strongly suspect that he has an
Airedale ancestor; but as I have no intention
of putting him into a show, I have little
interest in his pedigree. I have been told by
quite disinterested people that he is a very
good type of mongrel; and one or two have
gone so far as to say that he is a thoroughbred.
His appearance certainly causes me no anxiety,
but I cannot say the same about his behaviour.
There was rather a wild streak in him as a
puppy; and if it is true (as I have every reason
to believe) that animals are affected by the
temperaments of their owners, then mine,
which happens to be rather an excitable one, has
definitely not had a subduing effect on Michael.

I should like to remark, before going any
further, that my dog has a very affectionate
nature (the Irish predominating in this respect,
as it does in his appearance), he is devoted to
humans, and especially to children. With
regard to other dogs, his behaviour is more
or less average. I would not term him a
fighter, neither would I dream of calling him
docile! He has had one or two scraps in his
time ; and has one bitter enemy who lives in the
next road; but as this dog is always on the
lead, and is obviously on the look—out for a
fight, I do not think one can altogether
blame Michael for retaliating.

Cats are the trouble with Michael. Cats
spelt in large letters. They say it is natural
for dogs and cats to be at enmity; “A cat
and dog life” is often quoted; but I am not
quite certain as to Michael’s feelings towards
the feline species. I do not think he has the
desire to injure a cat; in fact, like many dogs,

20

November, 193 7

he usually runs away when a cat turns on him ;
but he does enjoy chasing them. He seems
to scent them out from the most unexpected
quarters, and then barks furiously, his tail
wagging at the same time, when he has driven
them up trees, walls, or fences. I would not
mind nearly so much if he would only do his
hunting quietly; but he is so pleased with his
own cleverness that he barks incessantly,
thus bringing out irate cat owners, who vent
their wrath'on me. i

It is a work of. strategy and art to take
Michael for a walk in the immediate neighbour-
hood of my home. I do not worry when we
are further aﬁeld. We are not known, and I
can face the cat owners boldly; in some in-
stances, I have even been known to retaliate
instead of apologising! but in my own road
it is a different matter; I am on bowing

'acquaintanceship (if no more) with all my
, neighbours ; and it is, of course, very necessary

to keep in their good books, and to do this
I must avoid all chances of causing un-
pleasantness.

The following are just a few of the dangers
I have to remember, when issuing forth
from my gate with Michael :—-

Almost exactly opposite are two houses,
occupied by quite respectable people, each the
owner of a well—fed, well-behaved cat.
Fortunately, both gates are usually kept
tightly—closed; but there have been rare
occasions when, by some unforeseen mishap,
one of these gates has been loosely drawn to,
with the result that Michael, smelling a cat,
has burst into the sacred precincts, and has had
to be brought out by his owner,’in great fear
and trepidation (I refer to the owner, not the
dog I). That is Danger No. 1.

Danger No. 2 is the house at the corner
of the next road, the back garden of which
adjoins the above—mentioned houses; and
here too lives a sleek black cat, the pet of his
owner, who follows her about like a dog.
I draw a veil over the times that Michael has
pushed open those garage gates, or squeezed
through the hedge, to chase this particular pet,
who always happens to be in the vicinity.

Having got him safely past these two danger
zones, I breathe more freely, but only to
remember that further down the road lives
another cat whom Michael delights to chase;
and nearby are two grey priceless Persians,
who are never permitted to stray from their
garden, the gate of which is kept firmly
closed. Up to the date of writing, Michael

 

 




 

 

 

No uember, I93 7

has done no more than bark at them from the
outside of the garden railings; but I live in
direst dread of some day when he may ﬁnd
an opportunity of penetrating into that holy
of hOll.CS, thus forcing those dignified and
beautiful animals to make a hasty and un-
digniﬁed retreat.

If we turn in the other direction when leav—
ing our house, there are other dangers to be
faced (or I should say, avoided). A large
garden encircles the Church School and the
Schoolmaster’s house; and on more than one
occasion Michael has been known to push
open one of the little gates and run backwards
and forwards on the scent of a cat; and should
he eventually bring the scent to earth, he
raises his voice in loud triumphant strains,
which bring terror to my beating heart, for,
once having encountered the lady of the house,
I have no wish for a second meeting! I
usually manage now to entice him past the
school, by throwing stones for him to fetch; a
pastime which is so all—absorbing to him
that he has even been known on occasion to
pass cats in total unconsciousness.

Having once got him past all these sources
of temptation, I begin to enjoy my walk;
but always, at the back of my mind, there lurks
the memory of the return journey. Being
passionately fond of animals (and dogs in
particular), I shrink, whenever possible, from
putting my dog on the lead, except on main
roads, when his life may be in danger, as I
believe that domestic pets should have as much
freedom and exercise as their conﬁned sur-
roundings will permit ; but I do, if I happen to
be particularly nervous, manage to put him
on the lead before reaching home, and so we
arrive back quietly and in perfect order.

I don’t know whether mine is a unique case,
but I do- know that taking my dog for a walk
requires all my wit, intelligence, and foresight.
Once my mind wanders, once I am off my
guard, and I am rudely awakened by a loud
insistent barking, and the scuffling of cats
through hedges, or up walls, posts, or trees.
I sometimes wonder if I am being trained for
some position in life, where keen awareness,
attentiveness, and acute hearing, are essential.

Needless to say, I much prefer "to take these
outings unaccompanied by a friend; for,
naturally, this friend expects me to give
her at least part of my attention; and, as I
think I have shown above, it is not sufﬁcient
to give Michael. a divided attention, he de—
mands the iz/bo/e.

2|

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRI END

A War Hero

(Tbe following 5100/, logetber witb otber dog7 storier,
taken from a N ew Zea/and paper, bar been rent to tbe
Editor by Mr. F. Canerbz'l/ of Ina/éaa, Auckland, wit/J z‘be
reqnerz‘ tbaz‘ ibey .rba/l be pab/z'rbed in THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND. Mr. Caoerbz'l/ dererz'bei~ bz'inse/f as “ an o/d
sbepberc ” wbo bar bad “ .ronze good dog; in my time.”

retriever attached to a battalion of the
Royal Fusiliers during the Great War.
He really merited the V.C. Out in No Man’s
Land, Bouncer knew as he trotted beside a
sentry one dark. night, his master was “ scout-
ing”. The fusilier had told him so, and also
murmured : “ I won’t be long, old chap.”
From the gloom appeared a shadowy,
mud—spattered figure. The fusilier was re—
turning. Then suddenly the familiar rat—
tat~tat of a machine-gun broke the stillness.
There was a groan, and the shadowy ﬁgure in
front dropped. The fusilier had fallen just
ﬁfteen yards from his own line, but it might
just as well have been half a mile, for the rat-
tat—tat went on, rising to a crescendo. Death

1 NOTHER cannine hero was Bouncer, a

swept the air; death to anyone who ventured.

over the top just then.

Bouncer gave one short, sharp bark.
The sentry tightened his grip on the lead,
but Bouncer pulled, broke free, and was gone.
“ Poor dog!” murmured the sentry—and
waited, hoping that the ﬁring would cease and
give him or someone else a chance to help.
But it did not relax.

Out there, the fallen fusilier, gasping
painfully from his wounds, felt a hot tongue
lick his cheek, strong teeth grip his collar.
“Back, sir—back! ” he said ﬁercely, as he
realised what was happening. But for once
Bouncer did not heed his master’s command.
Instead, he tugged.

Man and animal found themselves moving
slowly, an inch or two at a time, over the torn—
up ground. Now the fusilier dropped his
protests and helped the dog in his brave task as
much as he could.

Ages passed, it seemed. The ﬁring went on.
Two or three times the dog gave a choking
sound, but never once released its grip.
When, later, the two fell in a heap into the
British trenches, they found that Bouncer,
too, had been hit—in three places. Happily
both dog and master survived.

 

. . . adnn'z‘z‘ed 2‘0 tbazf eqna/ .rky
Hi3 faii‘bﬁd dog .rba/l bear bin; company.
POPE.

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

World Day for Animals

Greece.

R. W. MILLER writes from Athens :———
1 \/ I “ For the ﬁfth successive year World

Day for Animals has been celebrated
in Greece, where October 4th is the festival
of the early Athenian bishop, Hieratheos,
a warm friend of the dumb creation. His
successor, the present Archbishop of Athens,
and all Greece, followed his example by issuing
an encyclical to all priests. ordering them to
preach on the Sunday preceding October 4th
on kindness to animals, while in the English
Church at Athens the chaplain, the Rev. R. R.
Raymer, appealed to the British Colony to
assist in this good work. Thanks to the
untiring exertions of Mr. Lagoudakes, a
master at Athens’ College and editor of the
Greek Am’ma/r’ Friend, the commemoration
this year was far' more widely spread than
before, extending over almost the entire
country. The provincial, as well as the
Athenian press, published numerous articles
about it, and there was a great demand for
leaﬂets, while 6,000 copies of the special
number of the Greek Am’ma/r’ Friend were
published. The proceedings began on Octo-
ber 5rd, with the projection of the zoophil
film, “ Segoyia,” at the Attikon cinema, where
Mr. Lagoudakes and the inspector-general of
schools and the scout—leader addressed the
assembled 1,500 school children. At two
Athenian suburbs a show of pets and an
animal parade of cows, goats, dogs, donkeys,
mules and horses with prizes were organised,
while at the Dog’s Refuge a veterinary
surgeon addressed an assembly of carters on
the proper treatment of their horses. The
distribution of prizes to the owners of the
best-kept animals in Athens, for which this
year there are ample funds, has been post—
poned till the return of Princess Catherine,
the president of the S.P.C.A., who will hand
them to the winners, on October 4th. Mr.
George Pop, well-known for his wit, delivered
a lecture to a crowded audience in one of the
Athenian theatres on kindness to animals.
He emphasised the importance of teaching
it in schools, and summarised the excellent
Greek legislation on the subject, pointing out,
however, that the law is not always applied.
Another lecture was given at Athens’ College.
The head oHicial of secondary education in
Athens has promised to organise students’

22

November, 193 7

clubs for the promotion of kindness to animals,
and the Patras gymnasium telegraphed to Mr.
Lagoudakes that it had- already done so.
The boy scouts throughout the country
collaborated in the celebration; the chief
of the Gendarmerie ordered his men to assist
in every possible way, and a special film
advertising the movement was shown, at the
International Exhibition at Salonika. Thus
there are signs of progress ; October 4th, 1957
should be ampz'rz'um me/z'orz'r 3222' for Greek
animals.

Gwennie

has no greater adherent than “ Gwennie”

who lives (during the summer) on the
top of Snowdon. She will clear away for you
all scraps and pieces you cannot do with,
tired sandwiches and biscuits broken in your
scrambles over the rocks.

THE Society for the Prevention of Litter

My introduction was rather startling. I wa
standing in the Tea Rccm of the “ Highes
Hotel in the British Isles ” leaning rather
exhaustedly against the counter drinking tea,
when suddenly I felt a violent push in the back
between my shoulders. I turned found pre—
pared to be rude to somebody but only met
the innocent gaze of a very large and woolly
sheep and the amused smiles of other toilers
of the steeps. I asked Gwennie to keep her
hoofs to herself {and quickly ensured it by

purchasing a bun for her at ruinous mountain

prices.

Unfortunately Gwennie’s interest was purely
gastronomical and when I tried to pat her
she quickly walked away giving me a glance
which plainly told me “ she was no cat.”
Iquite expected that the hotel people would
chase her out, but apparently she was an
habitué who was definitely encouraged with
biscuits and lumps of sugar or any other
edibles handy. I still wonder what made
her different to the other sheep who waited
outside for stray bits, looking through the
windows rather wistfully, but who never
ventured within the charmed walls, and what
gleam of intelligence it was in her that made
her try to attract my attention in that rather
rude but very efﬁcacious manner.

YVONNE STOTT.

 

 

 

 

 




 

. St. Francis

 

 

 

 

November, 193 7

' St. Francis’ Day

Celebration
At Garratt Lane L.C.C. Girls’ School

 

Garratt Lane L.C.C. Girls’ School on
October 4th was a very joyous and
colourful occasion. It was a morning when
the air was fresh and clean, and the sunshine
was streaming in through the windows upon
the large group of happy and expectant
children assembled in the Hall of Celebration
——and upon the visitors and staff—-—when the
speaker walked in during the singing of the
opening hymn. After the hymn came a
reverent reading of the story of St. Francis
by a member of the staff. Readings by three
of the children from the Little Flowers of
followed. These were “ St.
Francis and the Sparrows,” “ St. Francis and
the Dove,” and “ St. Francis and the Wolf.”
They were very well rendered by the girls.
Next came the Tributes of Flowers—a happy
inspiration. These were offered by many of
the children, who, rising from their places
in the body of the hall, moved in self—directed
and orderly procession along the aisles. In
their hands they carried their tributes of
dahlias and daisies (with here and there a
single rose) and other autumn ﬂowers, and

THE celebration of St. Francis’ Day at

.these they arranged without haste and without
fuss, but with dignity and deftness in the
" expectant vases.

These were arranged on

tiers around and below the well-known

picture of St. Francis and the Birds. In the

forefront of the stand, and peeping out from
between the ﬂowers, were figures of animals
and birds—without the presence of these
“little brothers and sisters ” the celebration
would have been lacking. After the tributes
came the St. Francis Day talk, to which the
children listened with eager interest. This

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

was given by the Editor of THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND. And then came the ﬁnal item, when,
to the sweet singing of “ The Hymn of St.
Francis,” the assembly passed out in orderly
array.

The visitors included two lady inspectors
of the Board of Education and several members
of the local education committee, who were
hospitably regaled with coffee and bisCuits by
Miss Ridout, the headmistress of the school,
and her staff, with the service of several of
the children.

The block. that illustrates this notice will
serve to show something of the setting of the
Celebration after the Tributes of Flowers,
but it can give little indication of the joyous-
ness of the occasion. Miss Ridout is doing
a great work in this school, and the yearly
St. Francis Day Celebration is characteristic
of its quality and colour, as also are the
verses from Garratt Lane that follow.

R. H. S.

To Frames on [yer Joy at #96 freeing of a Limez‘.

The Linnet we freed

we called Francis;
Remembering he

whom they of Assisi

called “ the little poor man,”
friend of feathered songsters.

This bird caged and forlorn,
above the market’s reek and din
fluttered in quivering anguish
beating its wings

’gainst taut wires.

Folks stood and stared unseeingly,

while mid the sordid merchandise

and raucous note of gramophone and
band

the faint twit—twit and chirrup

of the long—lost home in thorny bush

was heard. A small coin

secured this bounding life.

At dawn from casement opened wide
A joyous bird gave music to the morn.

 

AUTHORS invited to submit MSS of all
types to Publishers of 40 years’ standing.
Fiction specially required; J€50 Cash offered
for Poems. Full particulars, with Current
Catalogue, free. No reading fees, Stockwell
Ltd., 29, Ludgate Hill, London.

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

N0 yemlw, 193 7

The National Council for Animals’ Welfare
H072. Organising Secretary: ]. L. CATHER.

Heigh-Ho ! Come to the Fair.

’] lHUS reads the invitation to the Animals,
Fair given by the National Council for
Animals’ Welfare on the original and
attractive leaﬂet specially designed and printed
in colour from a lino—cut by Neave Parker
and Harper Cory in association. We hope the
invitation will be widely accepted and that the
Fair will be more attractive and successful
than ever before.

The date of the Fair is Saturday, December
4th. The place: Central Hall, Westminster;
the Opener: George Lansbury, P.C., M.P.
The Hour: 12 noon.

The Animals’ Fair is as a writer in T66
’

Animal/i" Defender has put it:

A particular happy occasion in that the
various welfare organisations there meet
and work in happy amity, whilst many of
our valued friends come along, not only
as purchasers, but as bestowers of a word
of cheer.

Every supporter of the Cause should
make a point of going to the Fair if pos--
sible, and equally of bringing a friend
who, if a newcomer, can safely be promised
a thoroughly entertaining and instructive
hour or two——with ample provision in the
way of tea and light refreshments.

\‘Ve once more invite our friends to send
us articles forsale at the Council’s stalls, for
the Council look to the Fair as a means not
only as a friendly gathering of co-workers in
the Movement, but as a means of replenishing
its funds in order to maintain and enlarge its
animal welfare educational activities.

The following goods are much needed:

Cakes, Fruit, Jam, Honey, etc., for the
Tea Room, Buffet and Humane Food Stall ;

Woollen Goods, Household Linen,
vUnderwear and Useful and Ornamental
Goods.

Promises and gifts should be sent to the
Secretary, National Council for Animals’ Wel—
fare, I, Featherstone Buildings, London, W.C.I.

If you cannot visit the Fair, or send articles
for sale—or even if you can—a donation to
the Council’s Funds will be much valued.

24

Animals’ Friend Calendar, 1938.

This is now ready, and—if it is not sold
out before December 4th—it will be on sale
at the Animals’ Fair. It is, however, going so
well that those who wish to make sure of their
copies should not delay. Full particulars of
the Calendar, which costs IS. 2d. by post, were
given in last month’s issue.

Banstead.

During the past month the Editor was-

delighted to receive a letter, or, rather, a series
of letters, from boys at the Boys Surgical
Home, Banstead, Surrey, speaking of their
interest in animals and animal welfare and asking
him to go over and speak to them. Miss
Hassett, who is in charge of the School at the
Home, is a keen animal welfarian, and she has
succeeded in arousing a real interest in the
boys, who gave the Editor a very warm welcome
on his visit on October 14th.

 

Photo by)
Guillemot; on a Breeding Ledge~1llingulryu

(Joana Cochrane

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

1V0 Ilember, 193 7

THE ANIMALS FRIEND

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Seeretmy: BERTRAM LLOYD, 4, Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I.

The National Trust and Hunting.

N September last the Local Committee

for Ashridge, one of the largest estates

entirely controlled by the National Trust,
appealed to riders “ to consider the conven-
ience of walkers, who find, particularly in a
wet season, all their usual paths and ways
churned up by the horses.”

Mr. A. Macdonald, the Secretary, has
emphasised this appeal in a message to the
Hertfordshire Press :—

In all these problems of the use of public
land—riding, litter, noise, depredations on
flowers and so on—the same essential
principle, as in all walks of life, needs to be
impressed on the rising generation, that of
consideration for Others.

There is one highly significant omission
from Mr. Macdonald’s list of “ problems of the
use of public land.” Fox-hunting, by per—
Im'rrz'en of tbe Lem! Committee, is still carried on
over Ashridge in spite of the fact that ac—
cording to the National Trust Act (1907)
the Trust was established, inter a/z'a, for the
preservation of animal and plant life. Com—
ment is’needless.

Sport with Pests.

The hypocritical zest of sportsmen for
killing so—called “ pests ” (both birds and
mammals) is well-known. A recent example
of this habit occurred at Aldeburgh, Suffolk, on
July 11th last when a Cambridge University
undergraduate was convicted and ﬁned for
killing a sheld—duck, a legally protected bird.
In defence he put forward the absurd plea
that the bird was a male of the species, and
that he shot it because he thought that sheld-
drakes were pests to other wild fowl (l);
and further that he did not know that they
were protected. The arrogance of a man’s
thus tramping the countryside shooting wild
birds without first troubling to look at the
relevant County list of protected species, is as
obvious as it is objectionable.

In a strong letter to Tim Lez'rton Obrereer,
Mrs. Edward Clodd emphasises the thought—
less cruelty of the offence, which took place
in the breeding season. After discussing the
importance of the Wild Bird Protection Acts,
she writes :—

25

Shooting a bird which a representative
body in a democratic country holds to be
worthy of special protection, is in itself
an offence, but I should like to draw atten—
tion to the fact that, what may be no more
than thoughtlessness, may lead to commit-
ting offence still more repugnant to popular
feeling.

All birds are protected, as much by
decent feeling as by law, in the breeding
season. This applies, and should apply,
as much to the male as to the female, since,
in most cases, including that of sheld—
ducks, both parents tend the young. In the
case to which I have referred it is difficult
not to connect the subsequent finding of the
fourteen young sheld—ducks dead where the
parent bird was shot to its destruction.

The sheld—duck is not an edible species, and
it is difﬁcult to imagine any reason for such
wanton destruction except the lust of testing
one’s skill on a living target. This is a point
which has been treated in detail by Mrs.
Clodd in her pamphlet, Slyeotz'ng for Sport,
published by us last year.

Badger-slaughter.

We have often had occasion to refer to the
wanton slaughter of badgers by fox—hunters.
The badger is one of the most interesting
creatures in the scanty British fauna. Even
Mr. Edmund Sanders, who does not profess
to be a humanitarian, in his new Beast Boo/é
(which is likely to be very popular indeed)
writes of the badger: “No enemies except
man, to whom it is useful.”

A recent gross instance of this badger—
slaughter for fun by fox—hunters is found in a
report of a meet of Sir W. W. Wynn’s Hounds
at Lightwood (T/ee Border Cat/ﬁtter Advertiser,
29/9/1957): “ There seems to be more
badgers than foxes, and three of the former
fell victims to the bounds.” If pressed on the
point, fox—hunters will often aver that they
regret the killing of badgers by their hounds.
This is obviously absurd. Either they are too
weak to restrain hounds from badger—killing,
or they wish them to have blood. In any
case, if the badger enjoyed legal protection,
as it certainly ought to do, fox—hunters would
be forced to take measures to avoid such
so—called “ accidents.”

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

No Winner, [93 7

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

Hon. Secretary: MISS N. IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Oﬁ’z’eer: EDINBURGH—IO, QUEENSFERRY STREET.

GLASGOW—I47, BATH STREET

OB] ECT—T/Je abolition of Vioz‘yeetz'on and the Preoentz'on of Snﬁ’ering to A 'nzna/r nzbe'e/J it entails

The Measure Wherewith we Mete.
“ Ta/ée nJ/yat yon want,” said God, “ take it
and pay for it.”
—Spanish Proverb.
HE young medical student of to—day is
probably informed at the outset of his
college career that vivisection is a
necessary adjunct to the medical and surgical
art. This is misleading because it is untrue.
The student, however, is handicapped at
the outset. He is learning from those whose
teaching is erroneous. Nothing of the slight—
est value to humanity was ever discovered by
animal experimentation. It would be better to
teach the student that what is morally wrong
can never be scientiﬁcally right, and that the
healing art does not depend for its success on
the torture of sentient and innocent creatures.
This would place the whole matter upon the
highest pedestal, the ethical one. People,
unfortunately, are not entirely ethical and
moral in their outlook, and so it behoves us to
take up the task of showing (and it is quite
possible to show) that vivisection is scientiﬁ—
cally misleading, thus proving to the supporters
of this evil practice that it will not pay
materially. The ethical mind will have no
trouble in seeing the moral objections to
vivisection ; the unethical mind, which is
self—seeking, may be induced to appreciate
the other viewpoint, since it erroneously
expects to rely on unscientiﬁc ﬁndings for the
beneﬁt of that health which it is actually
ready to destroy. Anti—vivisectionists should
arm themselves with the scientiﬁc objections
and thus place themselves on the ﬁrmste
basis. The unethical mind is not moved by
the injunction: “ Inasmuch as ye have done
it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have
done it unto Me.” Can we move that same
mind by showing that “ whatsoever a man
soweth that he will also reap ”P We think
we can l

Prone “ Toe Canadian Abolitionz'rt,” 1937.

Wasting their Time.

“ Students waste far too much time in
laboratories and in studying matter acquired
from laboratory experiments in test—tubes

76

-—~r .. . ‘W‘ ~- ym’mﬂwmﬁf—‘TWC‘; ‘
___.___,___‘__-____ u. .

.. ._.,z., .Wmum, .—~rr»~-r_Aa-——.~m_.ux'— . m;

and on animals by academic scientists. .
Such matters can only interest the experi—
mental physiologist. They have no value for
the practitioner of the healing art. If we are
called in to treat a case of sore throat, not
one of the hundreds of animal experiments
will help us to diagnose the cause or to write
the correct prescription. Such teaching is,
therefore, a sheer waste of the student’s
time.” ' '

( E'Xeerptfronz “ [llledz'ea/ World,” September 25th, 1936.)

Cowardly and Base.

In his autobiography the famous author,
John Cowper Powys, speaks of vivisectiOn as
“ an abominable crime against the only
morality that is worth a ﬁg. No excuse,
make it as plausible as you please, justiﬁes
vivisection. There has never been upon
any human subject so much crafty and de-
liberately misleading propaganda. .
People in our modern world are too blind to
see what these fanatical devotees of physical
science are doing to humanity. They are
taking away what makes us men. Vivi-
section . . . . is cowardly and base.
It is an immoral, a revolting and wicked
thing. There is at present what one
might call a guilty conspiracy of silence about
vivisection. We shrink from facing it lest it
should be incumbent upon us to do something
about it, and it is this fear that
these scientists exploit for their own purpose.
. . Science has so hypnotised us into
a belief in its greatness, its sublime imperson—
ality, when as a matter of fact it is full of
all sorts of humbug. What are we to expect
from these sly pundits who, with their pseudo-
chemical clap-trap and hocus-pocus jargon,
darken and obscure all honest, open, decent
understanding. Humanity must rebel now
and shake OK this unspeakable yoke, or it
will be too late! ”

EL EVATIOIVT OR D ET ERICK/l TIOJVT P

Toe fig/7t agatnrt onrireetz'on it one of Me Inort important
tanér of culture, for 222%)?on or defeat in t/n'r fight neean; [be
e/enatz'on or deterioration of loznnaw'zy. .

a... -.. ,r _....»__+u-..,»... 7...... 3...», , ., “a -4- “x. . .- ...-.._..____._....._.~‘_...~__.._-H__H.. — ...< w. _-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

November, 193 7

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

H022. Semaz‘my: D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.

Overworking of Ponies in Northern Pits.

OST people will probably agree with a
writer in the blow/9 Mail and Newmrz‘le

Clymm'c/e on August 28th, 1957, when
he said that z— '

humane people will be profoundly
shocked by the allegations that ponies in
Northumberland pits are being worked
double—shifts. These allegations are made
publicly by responsible men and whispered
widely by others who feel the respon—
sibility of silent connivance. There seems
no doubt that the complaints are well—
founded.

\With others, I have looked forward
hopefully to the day when underground
haulage of tubs will be done wholly by the
tireless and unfeeling machine. Until that
day arrives no effort must be spared to
ensure that the ponies, who are condemned
to work in unnatural conditions, shall not be
abused.

To—day the Norfb Mail publishes on this
page a letter on the subject from the officers
of the Washington Lodge. Therein is pointed
the way to end the abuse. If there is nothing
in the Coal Mines Act to limit the hours
which a pony may legally be worked below
ground, the omission should be repaired
forthwith.

The letter from the officers of the Washing—
ton Branch of the Northumberland Miners’
Association is timely and important. It says :

We are pleased to learn that people
other than miners are interested in the
alleged overworking of pit ponies. As
representatives of colliery workmen who
recently protested against alleged over—
'working of ponies we are much concerned
in reference to the difficulty of preventing
such overworking.

It is admitted that there is a shortage of
ponies suitable for pit work. We assert
that, as a consequence, many ponies are
worked 12 hours a day with no more than
a half—hour break between shifts. When a
complaint is made, particularly if backed by a
threat of a stoppage to enforce remedial
measures, the ponies are examined by the
veterinary surgeon and the horse in—

spector. Usually they report that the ponies
are in good condition.

On such reports, based upon examination
of the ponies while at rest in the stables, it is
impossible legally to sustain complaints
that the ponies are being overworked.
There is, apparently, nothing in the Coal
Mines Act which limits the hours a pony
may be worked below ground. But the
driver, or putter, who works with the pony
every day can decide unfailingly when the
fitness of the pony is impaired. Some shifts
assert that the ponies are listless and can
hardly pull the tubs. Then the putters
properly complain not only against the
unfairness to the ponies, but also against
the adverse eHect upon their earnings.

One should remember that putters at
some collieries are very badly paid. They
have every sympathy with the tired over—
worked ponies, but they cannot afford the
loss of earning power. We agree with
“ Indignant ” that the conditions in which
many ponies work underground would not
be tolerated above ground; but we may
add that the same applies to the conditions
in which many of the putters work.

Our difficulty is that we have no
legal power to object to the working of
ponies more than an ordinary shift and,
secondly, that the proof of overworking
lies not in the experience of the putters
in their daily working contact with the
ponies, but on the reports of the veterinary
ofﬁcer and inspector who see the animals
only in the stable.

PATRICK BARTLEY, Secretary.
JOSEPH OLDs, Treasurer.
JOHN CULLEN, President.

One who calls himself “ Putter ” also writes
on this question: “May I, who can claim
to know a good deal about this subject,
say that current conditions in many pits are
disgraceful. I have known a manager ask
repeatedly for more ponies. He was told that
the pit could not stand the expense. Yet
at the same time, the ponies were being worked
double shifts and the directors continued to
demand, at each Board meeting, that the output
be improved.”

27

 

 




 

 

THE ANlMALS’ FRIEND

N0 yembe‘r, I93 7

The League for the Prohibition “of Cruel Sports

Secretary: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.I.

November Ist.

OVEMBER Ist is All Saints’ Day;
N it also is the date of the official opening

of the fox-hunting season. The hapless,
‘SurViving foxes which for many weeks have
been ruthlessly harassed by humans and
hounds have now “learnt their lessons ”
and are consequently ready to provide
'“ amusement.”

\Whilst most people are aware of the cruelty
of fox-hunting, comparatively few realise
that its pursuit is responsible for serious loss
to the poultry industry. But there is a point
of still ‘ greater importance—the loss to the
nation. The poultry, crops and live—stock
destroyed in fox-hunting represent so much
national wealth. The fact that the Hunts pay
compensation does not affect the issue from
the national standpoint. Compensation just
means that so much money is transferred from
one pOCket to another; it does ”of restore the
105;. If a farmer has 20 pullets destroyed by
foxes he loses not only the pullets but the
profits on perhaps '240 dozen eggs. The
country loses both the birds and the eggs.

Some years. ago a well known farmer and
County Council Lecturer on Agriculture
wrote in the National Pay/fly for/ma! that
“ if there were no foxes, fowls would be kept in
every field and eggs would be produced at
half the present price.” \W e hope our speakers
and press correspondents will give these facts
the fullest publicity, for many people are under
the impression that because fox—hunting is the
sport of a small section of the community its
prosecution does not aHect them. Inci—
dentally, during the cub—hunting season we
have endeavoured to expose this callous
and brutal “ sport ” in 160 letters to the press.

Hare-hunting.

The despicable practice of hunting “ the
timid hare ” is now in full swing and there are
frequent references in the hunting reports to
“ dead—beaten,” “ very—stiff ” and “ thoroughly
exhausted ” hares. It is but a few months ago
that a master of Foxhounds and Beagles was
moved to write the following letter to the
Editor of Home 2’?“ Hat/72d : “ Someone once
said, ‘ Poor the triumph o’er the timid hare,’

28

and we must all agree—it is a poor, harmless,
defenceless little creature and there can be no
joy at all in mobbing one to death. Let us
hunt them fairly and not boast of those we
have killed then, but rather how we hunted
them.”

It is obvious that no matter how “ fairly ”
a hunt may be conducted, a certain element
of cruelty and fear is always present—a fact our
opponents are evidently unable to appreciate.
And yet, can it be expected that the woes of
poor puss will arouse any chord of sympathy
in the hearts of her pursuers many of whom are
introduced to this “ sport ” before they have
learnt their letters. In this connection we call
to mind our foremost public school—Eton
College—where facilities are still provided for
the boys to indulge in this mean and callous
“ sport ” despite the several inﬂuentially—
signed petitions which have been presented to
the Governors from time to time.

What can be done about it? Since the
commencement of the hare—hunting. season
54 letters of protest have been addressed to
Editors in districts where this “ sport ”
is practised. In this and other ways we are
endeavouring to rouse that measure of public
opinion which will be the means of eventually
sweeping away a “ sport ” which is a disgrace
to a so—called civilised country.

The Witness of the Church.

A member writes :—“ Whilst staying in
Buxton I had a talk with a priest of the Anglican
Church. At the beginning of our talk, he was,
not against blood sports, but at the end he
gave me his promise to pray in church regu~
larly, and from time to time, when he could
ﬁt it in, to bring in some words in his sermons
for the ‘animals’ cause. Afterwards I gave
him literature on the subject to read and pass
on.”

We commend this action to all friends who
are members of the church. Does your
Minister know the facts about these practices
which are so out of harmony with the spirit
of the teaching of Christ? The abandonment
of blood sports would be considerably
hastened if the clergy everywhere realised
their responsibility in the matter.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

[Voz'emben I93 7

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Performing and Captive Animals9 Defence League

Hen. Direefer: CAPT. EDMUND T. MACMICHAEL, 17, BUCKINGHAM STREET, ADELPHI,W.C.2.
TEMPLE BAR 4080.

Command. Performance at the Palladium.
THE following poster has been displayed

in London and elsewhere to show

the League’s appreciation of the pro—
posed absence of animal turns—a welcome
change from the usual programme at that
offending hall. We wish the Variety Artistes
Benevolent Fund all success on November
15th. The Command Performance is held
in aid of necessitous artistes. The poster
reads :—-—

“ No Performing Animals ” in the Royal
Command Performance at The Palladium
on 15th November states the Lord Chamber—
lain in answer to an enquiry by the P. & C.
A. D. League. -

Congratulations to all concerned on this
Humane Decision! It follows the High
Standard set for many years by H. M. King
George V.

But why, after two ofﬁcial public in—
quiries fully exposing the cruelty in the
“training,” are they not made illegal?
And why do members of the public still pay
to see these “tamed and shabby tigers
and dancing dogs and bears ”P '

The Balancing Dog Picture in the “ Daily
Mirror.”

“ What has happened to the Mirror ”P
I asked a shareholder, “ \Y/ith their right hand
they print letters denouncing cruelty to in—
dividual animals—and then with the other
hand they insert pictures glorifying the very
worst type of performing animal acts, and a
picture of a member of the aristocracy doing
her bit of propaganda for a private zoo.”

Indeed, the dog picture was so shocking
that the League entered a strong protest to the
board of directors of the newspaper. As no
reply has been received to this letter (tem—
perate in parts, but tempered in others, as the
occasion obviously required) and as the spate
of pro—cruelty pictures goes on unchecked,
the League has had the offending page photo—
graphed with suitable comments, e.g.

“ Fortyseven dogs were killed in the training
for one difﬁcult trick.”———Lord Lonsdale.

Copies (full plate) of this photograph can
be obtained from the League at 9d. post free.
It is entitled with a quotation from the Bard—-
“ Oh, what a goodly outside Falsehood hath.”

Many members and friends of the League
have written to the Editor of the Alfmeer, and
the redoubtable Captain Beedell has bearded
the Board in its very den so to speak. There
is no harm in pitching it strong, in this case,
for it is certainly not a case of ignorance.

What’s Behind This?

“ Wanted a Crossbred type of Sheepdog:
For Filming Purposes on hire or purchase, a
Mastiff strain, etc. Strong, big and ferocious
in appearance, and also able to control sheep
readily.”

This appeared lately in the Field, and the
advertisers, Gainsborough Pictures (1928)
Ltd., added that they would consider engage-

ment of owner or attendant of dog for a

period as trainer.

The League at once wrote to the ﬁrm
mentioned, being anxious regarding the pos—
sible effects of advertising for a ferocious-
looking dog as this might well encourage the
ill-treatment of an animal in order to make it
savage. The hon. director also stated that the
League was well aware of the kind of treat—
ment meted out to animals in animal ﬁlm
production abroad, and were anxious that
similar acts of cruelty and torture should not
become an established practice behind the
scenes in this country. The letter concluded
with a request for a statement from them

which could be published.

Animals’ F air. -

Saleable gifts, Mile pricey marked on eae/a
article, will be most welcome for the League’s
Stall at the Animals’ Fair on 4th December at
the Central Hall, Westminster. Will readers
please send their gifts as soon as possible to the
Secretary, P. & C. A. D. League, 17,
Buckingham St., W.C.2.

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

No member, 193 7

The Humane Education Society

80, MOSLEY STREET, MANCHESTER, 2.

Prerident: GEORGE ARLIss.

Humane Education.
HE Founder of The British Humane

I Education Society, has recently been in

‘ close communication with Head Teach—
ers and Assistant Teachers throughout Great
Britain, The United States of America, and
other countries, concerning the practical
value of Humane Education.

As a result the following facts have emerged,
based upon the everyday experiences of
Teachers, Parents, Social Workers and
Journalists.

I. Humane Education Society has definite value in
bringing about immediate results in the better
treatment of animals and birds.

2. The Principles of Right Relationship between
young people and animals, are absorbed naturally
by girls and boys in the Elementary Schools and
Higher Grade Centres.

3. These Principles, rightly taught, by wise and
sympathetic teachers, have a far reaching in-
fluence in Character Building, Cultivation of
Comradeship, Ideals of Beauty and Peace and
Goodwill.

4. Good Citizenship is developed through Humane

Education and a steadily growing desire to help
those in need of friendship and protection.
A deeper sense of individual responsibility, and
of the value of co-operation in Social and Humane
Rescue Work, is cultivated. A sense that leads
to the realisation that we are all linked together
in one great Bond of Kinship, from the lowest
to the highest.

. Spiritual Perception in and through all things,
is one of the wonderful things which Humane
Education helps to bring about.

6. National and International Friendship, Peace and
Progress, will come about more rapidly and
effectively through Humane Education than
through any other source of activity.

kl]

Printed below' are extracts from an address
on “ Humane Education in Relation to World
Friendship ” by the principal of the Frank
McCoppin School, San Francisco are of deep
interest. Miss Smith has recently sent a cordial
greeting to the British Humane Education
Society and has given permission for the full
use of her address by the Society.

The paragraphs which follow are taken
from Miss Smith’s address.

Humane Education in Relation to World
Friendship.
There is a splendid field in Humane Educa—
tion for the development of the international
spirit. Humane Education is a culture of the

Secretary: ARTHUR MIDDLETON.

heart and the better instincts. It is a phase of
culture that knows no national boundaries,
for all share in its appreciation.

Humane Education stimulates the noblest
impulses. The most creditable feeling in the
human breast is a desire to help another.
The function of Humane. Education is to
instil into the receptive hearts and minds of
our girls and boys, those principles of love
and kindness upon which the happiness and
stability of society so largely depend. The
schools may inculcate world friendship by
elevating the ideas of humanity and of
solidarity of the race, by helping girls and
boys to understand that everywhere the human
heart is always humane, regardless of race,
colour or creed. In all school work, the
thinking of the child should be directed in
such a way that international goodwill will be
as natural to him as the air he breathes.

Duty and Kindness.

In any scheme of Humane Education, the
sympathy of the young is the motive that
forms its cornerstone. We all recognise the
truth of the saying that the hope of tomorrow
rests with the youth of to—day. Hence, we must
educate our youth that the next generation
will be in every way better and happier than
the present. It is a duty, therefore, to intro—
duce into the school system teaching of a kind
and quality that will engender humane
principles in the minds and hearts of the child—
ren, together with regulation of the heart to
produce those feelings that we should dis-
play toward other human beings and also
to treat animals with kindness. If we teach
kindness to animals in the schools, we need
have no fear of the next generation not being
humane minded.

The object of Humane Education does not
end with kindness to animals. Its material
in the main deals with animals and is calculated
to further their humane treatment, but its
aim is the broader one of developing a kinder
and more considerate attitude in every aspect
of life. Its purpose is to contribute to the
highest and most enduring happiness of the
human race. The world’s greatest need is
more education of the heart. Heart culture
should supplement brain and education.

 

 

 

 

 

30

 




 

 

 

1V0 Member, 193 7

G. Stanley Hall said, “Intellect makes a man
individual; feeling makes him universal.”
To make a man universal means to make him
in sympathy with all that feel, giving him
comprehension of the rights of all created
beings.

Character and National Greatness.

The reason for Humane Education is its
value in character building. No character
can be truly ﬁne, if it does not embody kind—
ness in thought and action. Foster in a child
a love of animals, and you further humanity,
for you form a gentleness of character and
respect for the lowly in the adult. To teach
children to love animals is an essential part of
teaching them to love their fellow beings, and,
because animals are so dependent on human
beings for kindness, it is a very high type of
love to care for them. It may be that a child
who protects an animal from ill—treatment,
acts solely with the object of befriending
the animal, yet none the less his kindly deed
reacts upon his own character and makes him
a better citizen. We have come to know that

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

kindness, thoughtfulness and appreciation for
animals, implant in us, as individuals, qualities
which will characterise our every relationship
in life.

W. O. Stillman, as quoted from the National
Humane Review, said, “. As the character of the
individual is, so will the character of the nation
be.” If children are taught to love all life
and befriend it, it will inﬂuence their characters
so as to stamp out war and criminality.
Without sincere and patient effort toward
Humane Education, the highest type of man—
hood or womanhood cannot be developed.
John Ruskin said, “ Character building is our
greatest business in the world. No small part
of it is done by our treatment of animals
committed to our care.”

Please Note.

The Humane Education Society reports
continued success in its work directed along
the lines indicated in the above paragraphs,
and Mr. Middleton will be glad to receive
donations for the maintenance and extension
of its practical educational work.

The United Humanitarian League

Seerefa/g/ : GRACE HAWKINS, 4, W’orsley Road, Hampstead, N.W.5.

DRAMATIC entertainment will be
A given by The London P4X Players——

whose President is Miles Malleson—on
Saturday, November 13th, at 8 pm. (Doors
open at 7.30 pm.) in The Studio, 29, Addison
Avenue, W.II., by kind permission of Miss
Caroline Perceval, Mus.Bac. Further particu-
lars, if required, can be obtained either from
Miss Perceval or from the Secretary of the
League.

In announcing this entertainment, it will be
appropriate to add a few words of well—
earned tribute to the ﬁne services continually
being rendered by the Players.

The aim of the London PaX Players is
“ to present Plays, Entertainments, and Music
for the purpose of promoting Peace and Good-
will.” It is gratifying to know that their
object “ Peace and Goodwill” is rightly
extended to include our animal brothers also.

The fact that animal welfare is often intro-

31

duced into their plays may be surprising to
some paciﬁsts, but not to those whose eyes
are open to the truth that Peace is a spirit and a
principle that cannot be conﬁned within any
boundary, but extends to the human race and
to the sub—human races as,to an undivided
whole; and who see that cruelty and exploita-
tion of the latter is war, too—war as immoral
and uncivilised as that which is waged upon
fellow—men, and that the two forms of welfare
closely associated.

 

HUMANITY TO ANIMALS.

Humanity to animals is a great point. If I were a
teacher in a school, I would make it a very important
part of my business to impress every boy and every
girl with the duty of his or her being kind to animals.
It is impossible to say how much suffering there is
in the world from the barbarity or unkindness which
people show to what we call the inferior creatures.

JOHN BRIGHT.

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
The Cat and Her Enemies

HE cat has not altered much throughout

the years. A fourteenth century print

shows a woman spinning and a cat
sitting up on her hind legs playing with a
spindle.

A writer of that time says: “ The cat is a
beast that seeth sharp and biteth sore and
scratcheth right perilously! She is the princi—
pal enemie of ratts and mice, and when she
catcheth one she playeth therewith, afore she
eateth it. She is glad in a warm place; she
licketh her feet; and washeth therewith her
face!”

Another me'diaeval description is: “ swift,
pliant, and merry in youth, and is a right heavy
beast in age and full sleepy . . and
in time of love is hard ﬁghting for wives, and
one scratcheth and rendereth the other
grievously with biting and claws, and maketh
a rueful noise and a gasteful when he proffereth
to ﬁght with another.”

Still the same old Tom—cat I

“ Rattes and mice ” are constantly referred
to in fact and ﬁction in. mediaeval times.
They are noted for their devastating thieving
and for their skill in carrying eggs home.
The fur of rats was used for coats and caps,
the price of rats was id. each.

E. G. B.

 

Correspondence.

CAPTIVE AND PERFORMING LIONS.

To t/ye Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,——“ Justice for Animals ” has written a
most admirable letter which appeared in your last issue
on this subject. I do not wish to burden your corres—
pondence columns with a long letter, but I would like
your readers to compare the fate of these unfortunate
captive lions (subject to whips, hot irons and pistols)
to the lot of the lions in the Kruger National Park as
described by Mr. H. G. Maurice over the wireless in
the following words: “. . and lions, those
good-natured though temperamental creatures, yawn—
ing at the passers-by or perhaps—if God is very good—
such a scene as Colonel Stephenson-Hamilton describes,
where a young lion brought one of his rangers out of
bed by steadily beating with his ﬁst the gong used for
summoning the native boys, while ﬁve other lions sat
on their hunkers close by, an approving audience! ”

Could anyone imagine a more delightful scene.

Yours faithfully,
E. SPRINGETT.

90, Claverton Street, S.\Y/.I.

' 22nd October 1937.

[V0 uember, 193 7

To #26 Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.
DOG OWNING A CRIME?

DEAR SIR,—A new bye—law relating to dogs has
been framed, and is in fact already operative in more
than one London borough. Under the bye—law a
person in charge of a dog (no matter whether on a
lead or not) will be liable to prosecution should the
animal soil the footway. And, in the view of an
official in one of the boroughs mentioned, the owner
will be regarded as culpable even if he happens to lie
elsewhere while the offence is being committed.

The effect of this new legislation against nature is, in
our opinion, to make dog—owning an easy road to a
criminal court, thus breeding a contempt for law. The
danger of road—accidents will be much increased by
forcing dogs and owners off the footway into the high—
way.

The underlying motive of these bye—laws appears
to be the harassing of dogs and owners with a View to
eliminating dogs from certain areas. The eHect will be
to create a burglar’s paradise.

Yet dog—owners allow these bye—laws to be adopted
without effective protest and still continue to take out
licences in anti—dog council districts, whereas they can
pay the tax in less hostile districts by post. They hold
the remedy and will be wise to apply it. While they
should endeavour to avoid a nuisance by training the
dogs they should refuse to be browbeaten by their
elected representatives.

DOGS AND FIREWORKS.

The ﬁrework season has come round once again,
but some creatures are precluded by nature from
sharing juvenile enjoyment. Dogs at large when
ﬁreworks are going off frequently take fright and run
for miles (the lost dog statistics always show a rise at
this time). For this reason it is advisable to exercise
a dog on the lead just now unless he has already proved
himself immune frOm fright in the presence of loud
explosions.

When at home a quiet room should, if possible,
be found for him. Some owners ﬁnd that pads of
cotton wool tied loosely over the ears are helpful.
Radio music is also said to mitigate the distress.

Yours faithfully,
C. R. JOHNS.
Secretary National Canine
Defence League.
Victoria Station House, London, S.W.I.

 

A retired captain tells how animals fare when
travelling the ocean. Says he: “ I know that some
animals, particularly cats, like sea travelling, but on the
other hand some suHer torture from it. I have skippered
many a ship and I never liked to see a big animal
come aboard because of the sickness I knew it would
experience. Also, most animals are difficult to deal with
at sea and they give violent vent to their feelings until
silenced by sickness. Elephants hate the sea, and on one
of my voyages three out of twenty horses died from
acute sickness. Cattle are the most patient of all. Even
cats and dogs have got to get over the ﬁrst bout.
The fellow who ‘ takes it and likes it ’ in the heaviest
weather is the polar bear.”

(National Humane Review—August, 1936.)

 

 

 

 




 

November, 1937 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND?

“The Animals’ Friend” Sustentation . Fund.

The Editor acknowledges with many thanks the following gifts received up to and including;
October 10th, I957. Donations to this Fund are still needed and are highly appreciated.
Anonymous, £5.
Miss H. M. Blackhall, 45.
Mrs. L. Doubleday, 93.
Mrs. E. Helps, £1. IS.
i In Memory of a “ Faithful Little Friend.” (Mrs. Eaton). IOS.
Miss K. Browning, 165. 6d.
J.E.H., Mrs. M. L. Lynch, 6s. 6d. each.
W. Campbell Shearer, Esq., 55. 8d.

._ Mrs. JollifI, gs.
Mrs. C. M. Halliday, Mrs. M. Spencer, 25. 6d. each.
Mrs. L. Tobin, £2. '
Mrs. \W. Banister, Mrs. E. C. Bergue, Mrs. O. Dewar, Miss M. Hayton, Miss M. Jones,
Miss W. E. Marrs, Captain W. G. Popplestone, Miss J. F. Ramsey and Mrs. Souray, IS. 6d.
each. . -
Miss Jill Gore, Miss E. Pringle, IS. each.
H. G. Chancellor, Esq., Miss H. Flintofl, Miss V. Montgomerie, 6d. each.

 

Performing & Captive Animals’ Defence League.-

Po/z'g/ :——“ TO MAKE ILLEGAL ALL PUBLIC PERFORMANCES OF PERFORMING ANIMALS.
INVOLVING CRUELTY, WITH JUST COMPENSATION TO THE. TRADE.” ‘
SHOP FUND.

\Vith the performing animal season approaching we need a considerable sum of money to.
rent shops in well—frequented parts of London, for publicity purposes.
Lady Binning has kindly headed the list with £100.
Any donation from 6d. upwards will help. Will you please send what you can to
THE HON. TREASURER, P. & C.A.D. LEAGUE, I7, BUCKINGHAM ST., Adelphi, London,W.C.2.

 

 

 

THE CANADIAN GEOGRAPHICAL JOURNAL

OTTAWA, CANADA.

Membership in the Canadian Geographical Society is available to any interested in matters.
geographical. The Society issues a lavishly illustrated magazine, T196 Canaa’z'an Geograp/n'aa
journal, which is obtainable from your bookseller each month, price IS. 6d. per copy (postage;
extra). It is sent free to Members of the Society. Annual Membership fees are: Canada,
$5.00; U.S.A., $3.50; British Empire, 128. 6d. sterling; Europe and elsewhere, 175. sterling.

Note z‘be saving effected by Membemnzj).

ation Forms for Membership may be had from the European Representative,

Applic
HARPER CORY, F.C.G.S., 27, ANERLEY PARK, LONDON, S.E.zo.

33

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND November, 1937

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
lee Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

S ee/és to pro/iibit t/ie viz/ireetion of dogs.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I

 

 

FOR HOLIDAYS THIS YEAR TRY

ILFRACOMBE IN GLORIOUS DEVON!

Mrs. James Allen’s Vegetarian Guest House in this lovely West Country is now so well known as scarcely
to need advertising.

Established t/Jirty—twoyears it is exclusively vegetarian.

Its liberal, varied, and well-balanced diet; the abundance of fresh fruits; delicious salads; conservatively

cooked vegetables ; the appetizing and nourishing soups, savouries, sauces, roasts, sweets, etc, have been enjoyed
by hundreds of guests.

DO COME, AND SEE FOR YOURSELF!

Send to-day for Leaﬂet giving full information. Terms are very moderate.
Miss NORA ALLEN, 33, Broad Park Avenue, Ilfracombe, Devon.

 

 

 

 

 

 

. BRIGHTON & HOVE The Little Animals’ Friend

AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE.
Price 1%d. post free.
Edited by JESSEY WADE.

 

Ideal Boarding Establishment

Near Sea and Downs, generous STORIES, PICTURES, COMPETITIONS, ETC.
diet. Bedrooms, H. and C, Valuable in Schools and Homes.
water, gas ﬁres. Annual Subscription, post free, IS. 6d.

M06187”? T377775~ Bound Volumes 1937. Price 1/9 per post

artistic and attractive Binding

 

Tari/j’: MR. & MRS. MASSINGHAM

THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
16 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON

8o Mosley Street, Manchester 2.

 

 

 

The League for the Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

7, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, SW.
President : HAMILTON FYFE
Secretary: J. C. SHARP. Hon. Treamrer: CANON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.
THE LEAGUE holds that it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for the
purpose of sport—“ pleasure I ” IT CONDEMNS fox—hunting, deer-hunting, otter-hunting and
hare—hunting, also rabbit- and hare-coursing. IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal
of a Drag. IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation.
Annual Subscription 53., includes the Official Journal, CRUEL SPORTS, monthly.

 

 

 

 

 

 

34

 

 

 

 

 




November, 1937 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

 

THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY AND THE LITTLE ANIMALS’ FRIEND SOCIETY

HUMANE EXHIBITION AND BAZAAR

Saturday, 27th November, 19 37. _3 o’clock. ,
THE MEMORIAL HALL, ALBERT SQUARE, MANCHESTER.
. E. A. Radford, Esq., M.P., will speak concerning the New Act to protect Worn Horses.
Friends of Children, Blrds and Animals can render Good Service by sending useful gifts and donations;
Sir J. Mathewson Watson, ].P., will preside.

The Right Training of young people is the best way to overcome Cruelty and Warfare.

WILL YOU PLEASE HELP US

to Make Things Brighter and Better for all Creatures in Need
of Friendship and Protection .3 '
GEORGE ARLIss, President ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Seoretmy and Loomror.

 

The International League Of If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join
St. Hubert The Cats Protection

(Bishop of Liége) League

This League has been instituted for the cessation The one SOCiCtY devoted SOlely t0 the welfare
of all forms of cruelty, including the slaughter and of cats and kittens.

. f . .
trappmg 0 animals for human consumption and for M HM B E R S H IP 5. / = P ER AN N U M ’

personal adornment. And for the purpose of bringing
before all nations the realisation of the callous taking . including the Society’s ofﬁcial organ,
of innocent life for sport and as a ﬁnancial proposition. “ THE CAT ,,

MEMBERS INVITED
All information from :—
The Organising Secretary, Write for Free Literature to :—The Secretary, 29,
137, Church Street, Kensington, London, W.8 i Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

Associate Membership Subscription gs. 6d. per annum.

 

 

 

 

 

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I
Cbairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD

All humanitarians should buy and read

SHOOTING FOR SPORT

By PHYLLIS CLODD. Price 3d.

 

THE NA TURE CURE HOSPITAL

(HUMANITARIAN)
VEGETARIAN AND ANTI- VIVISEC TION

Honorary staff of eighteen doctors, osteopaths, etc., gives services. Humanitarians of slender means may
apply. Complaints treated include skin diseases, eyesight defects, appendix and digestive troubles, women’s
ailments, defective feet, enlarged tonsils and adenoids, catarrhal deafness, goitre, spinal lesions, etc.

Please support Ibir bemy’z‘omt work.

Kindly send a donation to the NATURE CURE HOSPITAL FUND for In-Patient treatment.

Clinic and Hoodoo/artery: 41 BAKER STREET, WJ. Hours: Mondays to Fridays, I to 8 pm.
(Telephone: Welbeck 8 348).

 

 

All rubrn‘iptiom and oommmimtiom for Ibo .Magazine .rbould be addreuea’ “ The Editor, ANIM ALs’ FRIEND,
Featberrtone Buildingr, Higb Holborn, London, W. C .I .”

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND [Vat/ember 1937

 

 

 

 

 

THE DOG’S BAZAAR

Music Hall, George Street, Edinburgh

TUESDAY, 30th NOVEMBER

Under the distinguished pat—
ronage of the Right Hon. the
COUNTESS OF HADDINGTON
(President) and others.

In aid of

The Scottish Society
for the Prevention
of Vivisection

Hon. Secretary:
MISS N. IVORY

To be opened by Her Grace
The Duchess of Roxburghe

Contriém‘z'ons 2°72 marry or goods
will ée grdieﬂdbl received N O W
év Me Coneerzers

“Susan”and“Bobbie”

THE DOG’S BAZAAR, C/o Miss N. IVQRY
IO QUEENSFERRY STREET, EDINBURGH

 

N 0 TE— szts for tbe Seaz‘iz’sb sz'l- Waggers’ Clue Std/l seed/d ée

addressed 2‘0 “Mae,” Secretary at z‘beisezme address,

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by The Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road. Redhill, Surrey, for the
National Council for Animals' \Veifare, 1, Featherstone Buildings. High Holborn. London, W.C.l.

 

 




