g

TENTH THOUSAND

1 Human “Vivisecuon

V A STATEMENT AND AN ‘ INQUIRY   ‘

SECOND EDITION, .R‘EVISED.

‘y‘i Is Scientiﬁc murder a pardonable Crime?
That isjthe' question.”—RENE yBACHE,‘

‘y‘ To Whomsoever in the cause of Science,

~ the agony of a dying rahbitis ‘ of no
consequence, it is likely that the old or
worthless man Will soon be a thing which
in the cause of learning may well he
saci'iﬁced.”——JUDGE A. N. »WATERMAN‘.

“No experiments on animals are absolutely
satisfactory unless conﬁrmed upon man
himsel ,n—PROF. HORATIO C. WOOD,’ M.D.

 

 

 

PRINTED FOR
'THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION

1899‘

 

 




,_1.,..~. -. "10...“... “74—h.” »—.-71.-‘..77. _ _ up, . 1, , . ,, _.-_ . ~.1..... . l V_ ~91»: ,. 4.35-wa _ W . PK. v51! :

5.1

TO THE READER

. This pamphlet has been p11nted for Circulation among the
V - Vlmore intelligent and tho'uglitful,classes 0f Society, and it is
not intended for indiscriminate distribution,ZVVLThe VpriceVV‘of
Single c0pies is ten cents, postpaid. In larger quantities, to

V V approVed addreSses, furniShed by friends interested in Humane .
Vwork, the pamphlet Will be forWarded at a special reduction,

to be ascertained upon application .

Copies will be sent free to persons of recOgnized poSition
{and inﬂuenCe anyWhe1e in this country, and their addresses

V are solicited.

 

V The Opinion of every reader regaidmg the justiﬁability of, V
experiments such as those heie reported is especially desired. -
V This is not a mere formal invitation, but an appeal made to
each person to whom this pamphlet shall come. - The :facts are
indisputable. In certain q11arterS,-diSapproval of these revela-
tions has been expressed solely because of the distrust such
disclosures must cause. But While the ASSOCIATION WeICOmes
all suggestive and friendly criticism of its methods, —V—mQre than
anything else it desires to evoke condemnatim of the atrocities
which have made such disclosures its duty, May it not have

yoursVP

 

 




a'A‘xj‘n yang

even"! «areas >-

 

 

951“. f". . '. ‘

vs '7it‘gﬂ=:‘xtt'ﬁ'!-'E-“+‘J 33w wwxnte'rh' .4

"WWJV‘EI! “r -v‘§~€!¥‘“‘t'€“ﬁf -' 5 (tan

 

- _ . I _ / ' L‘ ,H; .» » . r :.v- ' ' ' ‘4' A
gig—‘1. Hr} .. 4,4; 1 , .v, :r. ~ H‘ I’ 5.- c A— / A "~ .«L/ ‘?

 

uman Vivisection

A STATEMENT AND AN INQUIRY

SECOND EDITION, REVISED.

“Is Scientiﬁc murder a pardonable crime?
That is the question.”—RENE BACHE.

“To Whomsoever in the cause of Science,
the agony of a dying rabbit is of no
consequence, it is likely that the old or
worthless man Will soon be a thing Which
in the cause of learning may well be
sacriﬁced.”—-JUDGE A. N. WATERMAN.

“No experiments on animals are absolutely
satisfactory unless conﬁrmed upon man
lzimself.”—PROF. HORATIO C. WOOD, M.D.

PRINTED FOR
THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION
1899

. _ , .f‘

:m =

;J_...

_.,.._.‘._. “4%

am; ,

a

 




Who loves not Knowledge? Who shall rail
Against her beauty? May she mix
With men and prosper I Who shall ﬁX

Her pillars? Let her work prevail.

' ' But on her forehead sits a ﬁre :

 

She sets her forward countenance
And leaps into the future chance,
Submitting all things to desire.

Half-grown as yet, a child, and vain,
She cannot ﬁght the fear of death.
What is she, cut from Love and Faith
But some wild Pallas from the brain

Of demons, ﬁery-hot to burst

All barriers in her onward race

For power? Let her know her place,—-~
She is the second, not the ﬁrst.

A higher hand must make her mild
If all be not in vain.—
TENNYscN.

 

 




 

wh‘.‘ _

THE AMERICAN HUNIANE ASSOCIATION

JOHN G. SHORTALL, President. SOCIETIES OF THE UNITED STATES,
FRANCIS H. Rom“, Seci-etary, ORGANIZED FOR THE PREVENTION or
E. C. PARMELEE, Treasurer. CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND CHILDREN.
DEAR SIR:—-—

A document recently issued by the United States Govern—
ment (Senate Document, No. 78) contains matter of such
great importance, that it has been decided to reprint that
portion which treats of HUMAN V IVISECTION, and to place
a copy in the hands of those who contribute to the forma-A
tion and guidance of public opinion in the United States.

The phrase HUMAN VIVISECTION must not be taken as
having any reference to the experimental use by physicians
of new methods or new remedies, with a view to the beneﬁt
of the patient. To such tests, in the vast majority of
instances, there can be no objection. But HUMAN VIVI—
SECTION is something entirely different. It has been
deﬁned as “the practice of subjecting human beings, men,
women and children, who are patients in hospitals or asylnnis,
to experiments involving pain, inntilation, disease or death, for
no object connected with their individnal benefit, but entirely
for scientific purposes.”

Accepting this deﬁnition of the phrase, what is your
opinion of such experiments as those detailed in the fol—
lowing pages? In each case, the authority is given. The
italics are ours.

Would you say,—as many do regarding animal vivisec~
tion,-—-that “morality has nothing to do with a scientiﬁc
methoc P” If so, would you think that the personal judg—
ment of any scientiﬁc man should alone determine what
persons, and how many, he may secretly devote to disease,

 




 

2 V Human Vivisection.

mutilation or death, in the prosecution of his researches?
Do you consider that experiments, such as are here given,
should be absolutely without supervision or control?

Or, would you, on the contrary, agree with the AMERI-
CAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION, that the practice of HUMAN
VIVISECTION is so absolutely opposed to the spirit of
natural and revealed religion, to Justice and Humanity,
that it should be entirely prohibited and made a crime?

Some expression of your opinion regarding the experi-
ments here related, and upon the subject generally,—to
the publication of which you would have no objection,——is
hereby solicited.

Respectfully,

WW

W P7‘L’\VZ'(ZIC’ 72 to

Secretary.

Please address reply to
Francis H. Rowley, D.D., Secretary,
16 3 Winter Street,
FALL RIVER, MAss.

 

 




 

 

[REPRINTED FROM SENATE DOCUMENT, NO. 78.]

HUMAN VIVISECTION.

On January 27, 1899, there appeared among the cable dis-
patches from Europe, two items that sent a thrill of horror and
amazement throughout the civilized world. They tell the story
of what is being done tO—day in the name of science, in a land
where vivisection is without control or supervision, and where
new—born children are “cheaper” than dogs and cats:

MURDERED IN THE NAME OF SCIENCE—REVELATIONS CONCERNING PRAC-
TICES OF PHYSICIANS IN VIENNA.

LONDON, January 26.—The Vienna correspondent of the Morning
Leader says: “It has been discovered that the physicians in the free
hospitals of Vienna systematically experiment upon their patients,
especially new-born children, women who are enceinte, and persons who
are dying. In one case the doctor injected the bacilli of an infectious
disease from a decomposing corpse into thirty-ﬁve women and three
new—born children. In another case a youth, who was on the high
road to recovery, was inoculated, and he died within twenty-four
hours. Many dying patients have been tortured by poisonous germs,
and many men have been inoculated with contagious diseases. One
doctor, who had received an unlimited number of healthy children from
a foundling hospital for experimental purposes, excused himself on the
ground that they were cheaper than animals.”

VIVISECTION WORK IN AUSTRIAN HOSPITALS—PRACTICE IN CHARITY
WARDS—SERIOUS CHARGES BROUGHT BY THE DEUTSCHE VOLKSBLATT—
OPERATIONS FOR EXPERIMENTAL PURPOSES.

VIENNA, January 25.———The Deutsche V'Olksblatt makes some startling
charges against hospitals here. It alleges that vivisection is practiced
in the charity hospitals, and declares that many patients have under-
gone needless Operations, which were made solely as experiments.
Eighty cases are cited of children being inoculated with disease germs,
and it is alleged the same thing was done in maternity cases, so that
infants were born suffering from loathsome diseases. The victims num—
ber into the hundreds. The Volksblatt demands the suppression of
these outrages.

N 0 one can read the account of these horrible crimes without
questioning whether such scientiﬁc atrocities may not be pos-
sible in America. If the vivisection of animals, carried to any
extreme desired, has produced the murder of children in

 




 

4 ' H innan Vivisection.

Vienna, may it not have precisely the same outcome in this
country, where it is equally without restraint? Are there phy-
sicians connected with the hospitals of our great cities who
would dare to perform experiments upon the sick and suffer-
ing committed to their care—experiments made without any
idea of helpfulness or beneﬁt to the patient, but solely for scien—
tiﬁc ends? Would not the publication of such awful experi-
ments in any medical journal in America, awaken in the Medical
profession such a chorus of universal condemnation as would
cover the perpetrators with everlasting obloquy? Or, on the
contrary, is there no danger of such condemnation?

It is well that we can answer these questions by a statement
of facts. Human vivisection is only the natural and inevitable
outcome of the claim that science has nothing to do with
morality; that the discovery of a new fact is the highest object
of man’s existence; that “the aim of science is the advance-
ment of human knowledge at any sacriﬁce of human life,” and
that no restriction, regulation, or supervision of any kind should
be placed by the law upon the work of the vivisector. '

Let us see where these principles lead.

I. Viviseetion—Experiments Upon the Insane.

In the “BULLETIN OF THE JOHNS HOPKINS HOSPITAL” for
July, 1897, appears an article entitled “Poisoning with prepara-
tions of the Thyroid Gland,” by Henry J. Berkley, M.D., of
the Johns Hopkins University. Recognizing the fact that the
extract of the thyroid gland, when administered to human
beings, produces poisonous symptoms, and that “when this
administration is pushed even to a moderate degree, death is
almost invariably the result, either through the advent of con—
vulsions, or extensive loss of weight with indications of pro-
found poisoning of the central nervous system,” he decided to
make some experiments upon eight insane patients of the City
Asylum,—an institution doubtless supported by public taxation
of the citizens of Baltimore. There is no intimation that the
administration of the poisonous substance was given for any
beneﬁcial purpose to the patients, for he took care to select
patients that were probably incurable, and moreover states
explicitly that:

 

 




 

 

Human Vivisection. 5

“It was directly for the purpose of ascertaining the toxicity (or
poisonous qualities) of one of the best-known varieties of the thyroid
extract that the following series of experiments was undertaken.

The ﬁrst portion of the investigation was made upon eight ”patients
at the City Asylum, who, with one exception (No. I), had passed or
were about to pass the limit of time in which a recovery could be confi-
dently expected. To these patients the thyroid tablets . . . were
administered, the dosage beginning always with a single pill daily for a
period of three days; then, after a certain tolerance had been estab-
lished, the dosage was increased to two tablets daily, and unless the
symptoms became grave the number of pills was increased to three
daily, the length of continuance depending upon results.

Loss of weight always attended the administration of the tablets,
as did disturbances of the circulation. . . . Irritability and a
greater or less degree of mental and motor excitement were remarked
in all cases, no matter how depressed or demented they had been
previous to the administrations. Two patients became frenzied, and of
these one died before the excitement had subsided.”

Case II. Olivia P., wt. 27. . . . .Patient was deeply demented,
and quiet for several months before the thyroid treatment began. She
lost ﬂesh very rapidly, and on the eleventh day of the treatment showed
pronounced mental and motor excitement. On the twelfth day she
passed into a state of frenzy. The thyroid extract was now discontinued,
but the excitement kept up . . . for seven weeks, at the end of
which time she died.”

Case III was good-tempered, but on the seventh day of the adminis-
tration became irritable, and ‘by the ﬁfteenth day he was so quarrel-
some that it was necessary to restrain him.’ Case IV was ‘quiet and
not at all irritable,’ but after the experiment on him his course ‘was
rapidly downward, and he became absolutely demented and degraded.’
Case V apparently had been ‘quiet for some months,’ but after the
experiment upon him began ‘he became much excited.’ Case VI was
‘never excited,’ but after three weeks’ administration ‘has become very
irritable, restless, and difﬁcult to control.’ ”

“The above experiment upon eight human subjects, points out con—
clusively that the administration of even the very best . . . thy-
roid tablets is not unattended by danger to the health and life of the
patient.” '

“The above experiment upon eight human subjects.” These are
the words with which Dr. Berkley, of Johns Hopkins Hospital,
characterizes his own investigations! It was not legitimate
treatment; it was human vivisection.

II. Vivisection of Children in Boston.

In the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL for August
6, and August I3, 1896, Dr. A. H. \Ventworth,—-the Senior

 




 

 

6 H umam Vivisection.

Assistant Physician to “The Infant’s Hospital,” Boston, the
Out-patient Physician to “The Children’s HUSpital,” and a
lecturer in Harvard Medical School,———describes what he truly
and signiﬁcantly called “Some Experimental Work” upon
children by way of tapping the spinal canal. These Vivisections
were performed some forty—ﬁve times. A brief abstract of
some of this “experimental work” is as follows:

Case II. Female, aged 20 months. Punctured January 16, 1896,
January 22, February 16, on day of patient’s death.

Case III. Female, aged 4 months. Puncture, January 17, I896.
Patient died January 22.

Case V. Male, aged 3% years. Puncture, February 3, 1896. Patient
died February 4th.

Case VI. Male, aged 6 months. Puncture February I. Patient died
in convulsions three weeks later.

Case VII. Male, aged 7 months. “Patient entered Hospital, Febru—
ary 5, 1896.” Punctured February 5, February 21, February 27. Died
February 28th.

A medical journal, THE PHILADELPHIA ’POLYCLINIC of
Sept. 5, 1896, characterizes these experiments as follows:

HUMAN VIVISECTION.

“Recent numbers of the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal contain
a paper recording some experiments made on infants to determine
whether lumbar puncture of the subarachnloid space is dangerous.

The article in question had been read, the author tells us, before two
medical societies, and recounts how on more than forty occasions he
tapped experimentally the spinal canal of infants whose symptoms
presented no indication for such a surgical procedure.

Before the inauguration of these experiments the author 1had per-
formed lumbar punvcture—a proper therapeutic operation—on a case
of doubtful tubercular meningitis. The child’s pulse on that occasion
rose to 250. ‘She clutched at her hair, tossed herself about on the bed,
and uttered sharp cries.’ He ‘was unprepared for such a result and
did not know but that it would terminate fatally.’ The patient, how-
ever, recovered from these alarming symptoms, and ﬁnally left the hos-
pital perfectly well.

It then occurred to him that operative disturbance of normal pressure
within the cerebro—spinal canal might be a dangerous procedure, though
the effect of a diminution of the increased pressure in meningitis be
harmless. He accordingly determined to test this question on human
beings intrusted to his professional care. As the desired material con-
sisted of infants from a few weeks to a few years of age, he presuma—
bly did not have to ask their consent to the experiment, and it is
probable that he did not explain his desires to or obtain the consent
of the mothers of the little ones. ‘

 

 

- 1 -4; ##(w—A




 

 

 

H ttrtttall Vivisection. 7

He justiﬁes this experimental vivisection by saying: ‘The diagnos-
tic value of puncture of the subarachnoid space is so evident that I
considered myself justiﬁed in incurring some risk in order to settle
the question of its danger.’ ,

It must be remembered that there were no therapeutic indications
for the operation, such as often lead us to justly and properly adopt
operative treatment the positive value of which is still undetermined.
These operations were purely and avowiedly experimental, though it
must be mentioned that the operator was not so callous but that he,
according to his report, made preparations for an emergency. For-
tunately for the victims, nothing occurred to alarm the experimenter.
It is true that the momentary pain of the puncture caused the patients
to shrink and cry out, but ‘that was all.’ Two of the children were
subjected to this experimental pain four times within a few days.

It is difﬁcult to portray in calm words the thoughts aroused by the
perusal of this article. It is to be hoped that some true physician was
present when the paper was read to show the enormity of the author’s
crime and the disgrace that must come to medicine if such practices
are encouraged or tolerated.

The account of the action of this man—we dislike to call him a phy-
sician—is enough to justify the prejudice against hospitals which we
ﬁnd deeply rooted among the poor, and constantly combat as ignorant
and superstitious. He does not tell us deﬁnitely whence the patients
came; but they apparently were hospital inmates, whom he was sup-
posed and professionally bound to treat with humanity——-and, skill.

If the needs of Science seemed to him to irresistibly demand that
the normal cerebro-spinal canals should be punctured, why did he not
courageously bare his own back to the aspirator needle? Then we
could honor him for his fearless love of Science. Now we despise him
for his cruelty to the helpless.”

III. Children Inoculated with a Loathsome Disease.

The NEW YORK MEDICAL RECORD—one of the leading medi-
cal journals in the United States—in its issue of September IO,
1892, published an original article by an American physician,
now resident in San Francisco, on the origin of leprosy. While
acting as the physician and surgeon in charge of the Govern—
ment “free dispensary” at Honolulu, the idea occurred to him
of making an experiment upon children by inoculating them
with a most loathsome and terrible disease. They were already
suffering from one incurable disease, and the object of the
experiment was to ascertain whether with another, and even
worse disorder, they might not be infected.

“On Nov. I4, 1883, I inoculated with the virus of syphilis,
six leper girls imder twelve years of age. December 14th, following,

4

 




 

 

 

8 Human Vivisection.

I repeated the experiment; . . . this last time, I used fourteen points
and inoculated fourteen lepers therefrom, but no result followed in any
of the twenty experiments. For the suggestion of this experiment, I
am indebted to my friend, Dr. E. Pontoppiddan of Copenhagen, Den-
mark. I am not aware that anyone else has ever attempted to inocu—
late a leper with syphilitic virus. Since willing to San Francisco, I have
tried on several occasions to get the opportunity, but so far without suc—
cess. . . . While the twenty cases in which I inoculated syphilis.
on lepers are not absolutely conclusive, still it is a point worth con~
sideration. It is to be hoped that this experiment should be tried by com-
petent observers under more favorable circumstances.

It is impossible to print the full details of these utterly loath-
some and abominable experiments. We can not believe that
such experiments were made upon little girls with their con-
sent or with any comprehension of intent; and we are, there-
fore, driven to believe that this American physician, who
to-day is practicing his profession among the sick and suffer-
ing of San Francisco, made these awful experiments under the
guise of administering a remedy for their complaints! And
not a single medical journal in the United States which has pro-
tested against the regulation or supervision of the vivisection of
animals, has uttered the faintest protest, or a single word of
criticism regarding these human vivisectimis.

IV. Inoculation of Human Beings with a Fatal Disease.

In the BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL for July 3, 1897, there
appeared an account of one of the most startling cases of
human vivisection which has thus far come to light. An
Italian experimenter, Dr. Sanarelli, residing at Montevideo,
in South America, having, as he thought, detected the speciﬁc
germ that causes yellow fever, determined to experiment with
it upon human beings. Where should he obtain his victims?
The associate editor of the NEW ENGLAND MEDICAL MONTHLY
(March, I898) tells us that “he obtained his material from a
lazaretto (or quarantine station) on Flores Island, and also
from the hospital of St. Sebastien.” We see that in the vivi-
section of man, the hospital patient, even in the mind of a New
England editor, becomes merely “material.”

Sanarelli himself says:

“My experiments on man reached the number of ﬁve. In two indi—
viduals I have experimented on the effects of subcutaneous injections

 




 

 

H innan Vivisection. 9

of the germ culture, and in the other three, that of intravenous injec—
tions. . . . The injection of the ﬁltered culture reproduced in man
typical yellow fever. The fever, the congestions, the vomiting, the
hemorrhages, the fatty degeneration of the liver, the \headache, the
backache, the inﬂammation of the kidneys, the jaundice, the delirium,
the final collapse; in ﬁne, all that conjunction of symptoms which con-
stitutes the basis'of the diagnosis of yellow fever I have seen unrolled
before my eyes, thanks to the potent inﬂuence of the yellow—fever
poison made in my laboratory.”

The Washington correspondent of the Boston Transcript,
who would seem to be unusually well informed in matters of
science, writing from that city September 24, 1897, says:

“The newest scientiﬁc sensation is the revelation of the extraordi-
nary methods pursued by Sanarelli in his study of the germ of yellow
fever. . . . It appears that he has not hesitated to inoculate healthy
human beings with the most fatal of infective diseases in order to prove
the verity of his microbes. This he was able to do at the quarantine
station on the island 'of Flores, near Montevideo, because in that part
of the world lives are extremely cheap where the lowest orders of the
people are concerned, and no law stepped in to stay the hand of the
bold experimenter. It is understood that .some if not all of the per-
sons inoculated died of the disease. . . . Unscientiﬁc persons may
be disposed to criticise such experimentation upon human beings.

The question is merely whether any man is warranted in
assuming such a responsibility? Is scientific murder a pardonable crime?
That is the question.”

That is one question. There are others. If these experi—
ments in murder were possible in Montevideo because “no law
stepped in to stay the hand of the bold experimenter,” how is
it with us, whose hospital patients even in Boston and Balti-
more seem to be equally exposed to the lust for human vivi-
section? There is not a medical journal in the United States
which at the time did not make some reference to the human
experimentation of Sanarelli. Was there a single one which
added a word of protest or disapproval?

These experiments were condemned. By whom? By those
who are asking that the practice of animal vivisection in the
District of Columbia shall be made subject to the law. At the
convention of the AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION held at
Nashville, Tenn, October I4, 1897, one of the speakers criti»
cised these experiments as follows:

 




 

 

 

 

 

I o H uman Vivisectiozz.

“What seems most pitiable to me is the helpless condition of these
victims of scientiﬁc research. Whether men, women, or children, it
was necessary that they should be ignorant, so that they should not be
able to connect their future agonies with the man who had simply
pricked them with a needle; they must be so poor and friendless that
no one would care to interest the authorities in their behalf; and they
must be absolutely in the experimenter’s power. All these conditions
seem to have been met. Apparently the victims were newly arrived
emigrants from Europe, detained at a quarantine station on an island,
doubtless belonging to what an American writer has distinguished as
‘the lowest orders of the people’—people such as were probably your
ancestors and mine when they set sail from Europe two centuries ago;
the ‘common people’ of modern society. For some triﬂing ailment they
submitted to inoculations. Then they became the prey of fever. Day
after day the scientist doubtless visited the bedside [of his victims, not
as a physician to heal their disease, but only to watch their sufferings.
It may be that he seemed the very angel of pity and help to these
poor creatures, when in reality he was engaged, as he tells us, in watch-
ing ‘the fever, the congestion, the hemorrhage, the vomit, the headache,
the backaches, the inﬂammation of the kidneys, the jaundice, the deli-
rium, the final collapse,’ unrolled before his eyes, ‘thanks to the potent
inﬂuence of the poison’ which he had administered. Some of us would
cal-l him a scientiﬁc murderer. Is he the type of a scientiﬁc investiga-
tor to whose memory society may one day be asked to pay its tribute
of honor and respect? Is he a man whom science would delight to
honor to-day?

I know that it has been suggested that ‘unscientiﬁc persons may be
inclined to criticise such investigations,’ and that although they may
be murders, yet, being done in the course of scientiﬁc investigations,
they may be, after all, a ‘pardonable crime.’ On the contrary, it seems
to me that possible utility 'has nothing whatever to do with our judg-
ment of scientiﬁc assassinations like these. Granting all that could
possibly be claimed for the usefulness to science of such experiments
upon human beings, we have still to meet the question, not of their
expediency, but of their justice. Should we, either as an association
or as individuals, give our approval to human vivisections, secretly
begun, and like these ending in torment and death, because of any pos-
sible utility? At the close of the nineteenth century [have we reached
a point where murder for any purpose whatever can be made a matter
of ethical controversy? Is it possible that science can put a gloss upon
some of the most cowardly assassinations that the imagination can
conceive? Are they less than murder because the victims were no
relatives of ours, but poor, ignorant, and friendless, and ‘strangers in
a strange land?’ ”

At this meeting, the AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION
adopted without a dissentient voice, a resolution denouncing in
the most positive manner all such triﬂing with the sacredness

O

 




H mnan Vivisection. I I

of human life, and inviting the various scientiﬁc bodies of the
United States to join with it in protest and condemnation.
That invitation has not been accepted. Against any restriction
or limitation of the right of a vivisector to subject animals
to torment without giving a reason why, against any law reg-
ulating the practice of vivisection, protests have been made by
the CHEMICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON, by the PHILOSOPHI-
CAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON, by the ENTOMOLOGICAL
SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON, by the NATIONAL ACADEMY OF
SCIENCES, by the AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, by the
ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PHYSICIANS, and by various State
Societies throughout the United States; but so far as known,
not a single scientiﬁc society in our country has ever made the
faintest protest against the atrocious subjection of infants to
mutilation, to inoculation with loathsome and sometimes fatal
disease, or to any other form of human vivisection. Is there a
single one of the above—named societies which by any formal resolu—
tion has ever protested against the taking of human life for a
purely scientific purpose? The correspondent of a great journal
asks, as he reports the experiments of Sanarelli, “IS scientiﬁc
murder a pardonable crime?” What is the answer to this ter—
ribly signiﬁcant question? We know the reply of some scien~
tiﬁc teachers. Writing in the N ew York Independent, Decem—
ber 12, 1895, one of them declares that—-

“A human life is nothing compared 'with a new fact in science.

The aim of science is the advancement of human knowledge

at any sacriﬁce of human life. . . . If cats and guinea pigs can be

put to any higher use than to advance science we do not kn/OW what it
is. We do not know of any higher use we can put a man to.”

We have by no means exhausted the record of human vivi-
sections, even in the Western Hemisphere. Sufﬁcient instances
have been adduced to show that the practice obtains here in
America; and that it is here condoned by signiﬁcant silence,
and by absence of all condemnation on the part of scientiﬁc
bodies. But underlying the practice of human vivisection there
is a danger to human society. Between those who demand
that the vivisection of animals shall be without restriction or
restraint and those who defend or practice human vivisection
there is a common bond of sympathy and belief; Says Judge

 




 

 

 

I 2 H umcm Vivisection.

Waterman: “To whomsoever, in the cause of science, the
agony of a dying rabbit is of no consequence, it is likely that the
old or worthless man will soon be a thing which in the cause
of learning may well be sacriﬁced.” We can never abolish the
' practice of Human Vivisection until we can compel science to
recognize, even within her own sphere, the supremacy of moral
obligations. That recognition may be far distant. But until
it is achieved the practice of animal vivisection as carried on
to-day in our institutions of learning constitutes a far greater
menace to human society than even anarchy or crime.

 

 

The document issued by the United States Senate ends at
this point. But the AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION, desir—
ing to ascertain the general sentiment of the people of this
country in regard to the morality of the practice of HUMAN
VIVISECTION, ventures to extend the list, and to call attention
to other instances of such methods of experimentation.

The Antiquity of Human Vivisection.

The practice of Human Vivisection is the bequest of Pagan
pitilessness to the civilization of the Nineteenth Century.

So far as History is able to discover, its ﬁrst appearance was
in the great medical school of Alexandria, three centuries before
Christ, at a time when that city was the central depository of
all the culture of the civilized world. Here, Sir William
Turner tells us, the sacred ﬂame of learning was kept alive
under the enlightened government of “princes, whose authority
was equalled only by the zeal with which they patronized
Science and its professors,”1 and under whom Herophilus and
Erasistratus made the ﬁrst dissections of the human body.

But that eminent American physiologist, Dr. John W.
Draper, ascribes the zeal of one of these princes to less credit—
able motives. Ptolemy Philadelphus, he tells us, toward the
close of his life was haunted by an intolerable fear of death, and
devoted much time to the discovery of an elixir; for this pur-

1Encyclop. Brit, Vol. 9, p. 801.

 

 




 

 

 

H innan Vivisection. I 3

pose there was a laboratory; and “in spite of the prejudices
of the age, there was, in connection with the Medical Depart-
ment, an anatomical room for the dissection,—not only of the
dead, but actually of the living, who for crimes had been con-
denined.”1 Dr. Payne, in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, speaking
of the dissections of Herophilus, asserts that “there is no doubt
that the organs were also examined by opening the bodies of
(living persons.”2

The proof of the practice goes back to ancient times.
“Celsus, writing about the ﬁrst century of the Christian era con—
cerning different schools of Medicine, tells us that the adherents
to one system, valuing knowledge, considered “that Herophi-
lus and Erasistratus had taken far the best method for attaining
that knowledge” since they “procured criminals out of prison
by royal permission, and dissecting them alive, contemplated
while they were yet living the parts which nature had con—
cealed. They maintain that it is by no means cruel, as most
people represent it, by the torture of a few guilty to search
after remedies for the whole innocent race of mankind in all
ages.” On the other hand, the Empiric school protested against
the cruelty of those “who cut open the ademen and praecordia
of living men, and make that art which presides over the health
of mankind, the instrument, not only of inﬂicting death, but of
doing it in the most horrid manner.” And this view, Celsus
approves.3

The earliest of the Christian Fathers, refers to this practice
of Human Vivisection. Tertullian, writing about A. D. 190-
200, mentions “that Herophilus, a physician,—or rather a
butcher, who cut up six hundr’éd persons in order to investi-
gate the secrets of nature.” He regarded their researches of
doubtful value, since death, “especially when death is not a
natural one,” must make error probable.4

Commenting on this passage, a writer of two centuries ago,
says: “Although it is only stated here that the said butcher,
Herophilus, dissected living men, yet Claudius tells us that

 

1History of the Conﬂict between Religion and Science, p. 21.

2Ency. Brit, Vol. xv, p. 801.

3Celsus. On Medicine. Trans. by T. Grieve, M.D. Preface. Lon-
don, 1838.

4Tertullian, De Anima, Vol. II, pp. 430, 433. Tran. by Holmes.

 




 

 

 

I 4 H 111111211 1717/175ect1'011.

Erasistratus, Diocles and Herophilus were all in the habit of
doing the same. It is to be regretted that even in the last
century, so learned and skillful an anatomist as Vesalius should
have mangled a living man by anatomy, for this savours not
of Christianity.”1

In this reference to Vesalius, we touch the shadow of a mys—
tery. A skilled anatomist, he was invited to demonstrate
before the University of Padua about I 536, lecturing also before
the Universities of Bologna and Pisa. We are told that an
unfortunate occurrence,——an excess of zeal in opening a
human body before all signs of life were extinct,—caused him
to be banished and sent on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, from
which he did not live to return. But Sir William Turner
admits that authorities are not agreed on all the circumstances
relating to this event. What means the reference just quoted
concerning the‘ ‘mangling of a living man. P”

Perhaps the question is answered by the recent researches
of an Italian antiquary. In the Criminal Archives of Flor-
ence, Prof. Andreozzi has discovered the fact that during the
reign of Cosimo de Med1c1 ———one of the most infamous and
cruel of rulers,—condemned criminals were from time to time
sent to the scientists of Pisa, there to be “anatomized.” The
following are some of the cases mentioned in his work,—
“Leggi Pe11al1' degli a111‘17ch1' C111es1'.” ‘

“1. December 14th, I547.——GIULIo MANCINI SANESE was condemned
for robbery and other offences. Sent to Pisa to be anatomised.
‘Ducatur Pisis, pro faciendo de eo notomia.’

‘2 In the record of prisoners sent away, dated September Ist,1551,
occurs this entry :‘——Letter to the Commissioner of Castrocaro, that
MADDALENA, who 15 imprisoned for killing her son, should be sent here,
if she be likely to recover, as it pleases S. E. that she should be reserved
for anatomy. Of this nothing is to be said, but she 15 to be kept 1'11
hopes. If she 13 not likely to recover, the executioner is to be sent for,
to decapitate her. The end of the horrible extract is ,———‘Went to Pisa,
to be made an anatomy.’

“3. December 12th,1552.——A man named ZUCCHERIA, accused of
piracy, was reserved from hanging, with his comrade, and sent to Pisa,
‘per la notomia.’

“4. December 22d, 1552.——-A certain ULIvo DI PAOLO was condemned
by the Council of Eight to be hanged for poisoning his wife. Sentence
changed—to be sent for anatomy. Was sent to Pisa on Janua y 13th.

1Le Prieur, “Tertullian Omniae Opera,” p. 662.,

.11 ..

~:~ 3" ‘4‘,
‘ ’. ' :
<. . .'
‘ _ h E .

u _ V r.

I . . i ‘_1

 




 

7:

Hat/nah Vivisectioa. I 5

“5. November 14th, 1553.—-MARGUERITA, wife of BIAJIO D’ANTINORo,
condemned to be beheaded for infanticide. . . . December 20th,
‘she was released from the fetters and consigned to a familiar, who
took her to Pisa to the Commissario, who gave her, as usual, to the
anatomist, to make .a'z'zatomy of her; which was done accordingly’ (‘che
la consegni, secondo il solito, a1 notomista, peri‘farne notomia, come
fu fatto.’)” ‘

“Several other cases, from 1554 to 1570, are recorded, with equally
unmistakable exactitude. Two unfortunate thieves, PAOLI DI GIOVANNI .
and VEsTRINo D’AGNOLo, were sent together by the Council of Eight
to be anatomised; the Duke having written to say ‘that they wanted
in Pisa a. subject for anatomy.’ ” After the date 1570 no more cases
occur in the Archives. In all, thirteen unhappy beings were delivered
over for scientiﬁc research. And it seems quite certain that Vesalius
and his pupil Fallopius were lecturing on Anatomy at Pisa during
some of the years when these victims were being sacriﬁced.

Do we stand appalled at this vision of the horrors, \once

- enacted in the name of Science? Across the gulf of centuries,

do we seem to hear the screams of women beseeching mercy,
the groans of dying men?

Let us be just to the Past. The human vivisection of
Alexandria and of Pisa was doubtless practised upon criminals
condemned for the worst of crimes. There is no record, that
three centuries before Christ, the scientists of Alexandria took
as “material for research,” the incurable and helpless invalid,
the orphaned or deserted child, the new-born infant, the young
mother who had just passed through maternal pangs.

For this phase of Human Vivisection, we must come to the

‘ present time,—to the last quarter of the Nineteenth Century.

Inoculation with Cancer.

On June 23, 1891, before the “Academy of Medicine” in

Paris, a paper on the subject of Cancer—grafting was read by

Professor Cornil. Therein, he stated that a surgeon whom he
did not wish to name, while operating upon a woman, took
occasiOn, after removing a cancer of the breast, to engraft a por—
tion of the cancer upon the other breast,———at that time perfectly
healthy; and that some months later, the graft developed into
a tumor which “presented every cancerous characteristic.”
The experiment was repeated upon another patient with identi—
cal results.

 

 




 

 

 

 

I 6 H inn-an Vivisectian.

This phase of human vivisection was ﬁrst made known to the
English—speaking world by the London TIMES of June 27, 1891.
Comments upon this revelation of scientiﬁc depravity every-
where appeared. The name of the surgeon guilty of these
atrocities could not long be concealed; it was a Dr. Doyen of
Rheims, France. The BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL, the lead-
ing medical periodical of Great Britain, in its issue of August
~ 29, 1891, said:

“The name of M. Doyen of Rheims, was, at the time of M. Cornil’s
communication to the Academy of Medicine, coupled with the experi-
ment described in it. The president of the Rheims Hospital Medi-
cal and Surgical Society has investigated the matter, and sent in his
report to the Prefect of the department, who has forwarded it to the
Minister of the Interior. The president ascertained from the testimony
of seven eye-witnesses that M. Doyen grafted on the healthy breasts
of patients a fragment of cancerous tissue removed from the opposite
breast.”

In the discussion that followed, it came out that Dr. Doyen
was by no means the original worker in this ﬁeld of scientiﬁc
investigation, but had simply repeated the experiments of cer-
tain German scientists made nearly three years before! Note
with what amazing indifference the report of these human vivi-
sections is given in the MEDICAL PRESS of December 5,

1888, (p. 583).

“Some important experiments have been undertaken by HAHN in regard
to cancer-grafting, which are of considerable interest. A patient of the
author’s, who had been attacked with recurrent carcinoma of the left
breast which did not admit of surgical interference, had three small
pieces of skin removed in which cancerous inﬁltration was well-marked.
These were transplanted to the right breast. The grafts united, and
two months and a half afterward, when the patient died from the
extension of the disease and cachexia, a microscopical examination
showed unequivocally the presence of cancerous elements in the right
breast.”

These experiments “of considerable interest” were reported
by Dr. HAHN to the Congress of the German Society of Sur-
gery at the session of April 25, 1889. Evidently referring to
previous human vivisections of the same kind, he says:

“Assuming, that up to now, in inoculations, unsuitable stuff had been
used at wrong places, about two years ago, I removed single nodules

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Human Vivisection. I 7

from a patient, suffering from cancer of the breast, with disseminated
nodules, and grafted these nodules on healthy parts, covering the dis-
eased parts with healthy skin. At the parts whence the diseased
cancerous skin was taken, complete healing took place, while the young
transplanted nodules continued to grow.”

Nothing could be plainer than this. The disease was extir—
pated in one part, and planted anew in another. This confes-
sion does not seem to have elicited the slightest criticism from
the surgical society to which it was originally made. But in
July, 1891, when the cancer-grafting of Dr. Doyen had become
the subject of comment throughout Europe, these earlier
experiments of Dr. Hahn and of another eminent physician——
Dr. von Bergmann,—who had imitated him, were brought to
light. A formal charge was made against their perpetrators,
by a German physician, Dr. EUGEN LEIDIG, as follows:

“My opinion is that doctors should consider themselves bound by
ordinary moral and penal codes, that they have no right to cause
their patients pain, nor to inoculate them with anything that induces
disease without any intention of cure, just because they wish to make
a scientiﬁc experiment. And now to the point:

I accuse Professor EUGEN HAHN, Directing Physician of the Fried-
richshain Hospital, and Professor VON BERGMANN, Directing Physi-
cian of the Surgical Clinic of this University, of having consciously
exceeded the limits of the medical profession and the power of a
doctor over his patients, by inoculating cancer patients who had
trusted themselves to them, with cancer particles in healthy parts of
their bodies, and of having thus produced fresh cancer growths in
these patients. As proof of my assertion, I add verbatim, the follow-
ing reports.”

The exposure of these human vivisections awakened very
general comment throughout the German empire. A few
periodicals were inclined to excuse the experiments on account
of the eminence of the men who made them, and the reasons
alleged for them. “These experiments were made for the good
of suffering humanity” said one writer: words that seem to
have a familiar sound in regard to the cruelties of animal vivi-
section.~ “Experiments on human beings are of very old
standing” said the Tagliche Rundschau of Berlin; and it calls
attention to those of Hebra, of Vienna, who inoculated with

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I 8 Hiuuau Vivisecliori.

the virus of a horrible disease “patients who were in the last
stages of consumption.” The Vossische Zeituug, of Berlin,
affirmed that sometimes in war, “a General sends a regiment
to certain death to gain the victory for the rest of the army.
Should uot a’doctor be allowed to act in. a similar way?” But the
trend of public opinion was toward condemnation. A few
quotations from public journals are of interest.—

“Humanity may easily come off the loser, unless the limits of medi-
cal authority be clearly drawn, and any encroachments thereon severely
punished. Otherwise, how many little BERGMANNS and HAHNS, fur-
nished with all the scientiﬁc arrogance of the century, might presume
upon their ‘scientiﬁc name,’ and their ‘humane’ dispositions to do
what they liked with the human frame? If anyone deserves the especial
protection of the civilized world, it is the defenseless, incurable
sufferer.” —Vorwarts.

“The relation between patient and physician rests on the complete
personal conﬁdence of the former that the latter will use the best and
safest means to attain the desired end; and that his actions will only
be intended to ease the sufferings and lengthen the life of the patient.
Should the principle that ‘Scientiﬁc Research can do what it likes with
the bodies of patients,’ be accepted, that relation would be destroyed.
Among the poorer classes the idea is unfortunately already prevalent,
that this principle is acted upon in public hospitals. . . . At pres—
ent, people fear that doubtful or even dangerous drugs and methods of
cure will be tried on them. But what will be the result if they get
hold of the idea that they will be inoculated with new diseases, in order
that their course may be coolly studied upon them? The fact that both
the accused doctors are Directing Physicians of large Hospitals brings home
the danger that such fears may be aroused.”

—-Daiiziger Z eituug, July 2 3, I891.

“Such an act betrays a serious hardening of the mind, and degen-

eration of the medical conscience. . . . Should the practice become
common, no sufferer would be safe, if the doctors thought him incur-
ably ill. . . . It is a step off the right road, and it must be made

an example of, so that patients may feel assured that those they take
for benevolent physicians do not change to brutal vivisectors who treat
men as their ‘beasts for research.’ ”

—-Schlesische Vollesaeituug, July 24, I89I.

“If experiments on living people are absolutely necessary, the doctors
might be kind enough to perform them on themselves, not even on
willing patients,——for it is well known how such ‘willingness’ is pro-
cured. We should have no objection to an, addition to our penal code,
by which the making of such experiments dangerous to life and health,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Hzmzan Vivisectioz/zr. I 9

on patients, without their knowledge, or with their consent, procured
by false representations, should be punished by imprisonment and loss
of civil rights. This is a case for stringent measures, for otherwise
we shall ﬁnd ourselves in the hands of doctors, who, ‘in the interests
of Science’ do not care more for the life and health of their patients
than for the young dogs and rabbits on which the physiologists are
in the habit of practising their fury of research.”
’ ~Ha77rtbm'ger N achrichten, July, I89I.

So much for public sentiment in Germany. What is the
prevalent opinion of men and women in America regarding
experimentation upon patients by the implantation of cancers?

“Atrocities of Continental Physicians.”

Under this title, THE MEDICAL BRIEF, for June, 1899,
published an editorial article condemning in the strongest man—
ner, various phases of human vivisection. So far as observed,
this is the only expression of reprobation or censure of these
experiments which has appeared in the medical press of this
country. As such, it is here reprinted in full.

“More shocking revelations of the atrocities perpetrated by Conti-
nental physicians on helpless women and children are coming to light.

At the Konigsberg Hospital of Midwifery, Prof. Schreiber, experi-
menting with Koch’s new tuberculin, made injections of ﬁfty times
the maximum dose prescribed by Koch, in forty new-born children!
Inoculations of variousvirulent bacterial cultures were also made on
a large number of women at the same institution.

A German physician named Doederlein, tells, without any apparent
understanding of the heinousness of the offense, how he inoculated
a young woman with a poisonous virus.

Dr. Menge, Assistant Physician in the University Hospital for Women
in Leipsic, made similar inoculations on a helpless woman. The same
man inoculated a new—born infant with a culture of staphylococci, in
the Royal University Ear Hospital.

A Dr. Schimmelsbuch inoculated two boys with the virus from a boil,
and both died of a pustular disease.

Dr. Epstein, Professor of Children’s Diseases, at Prague, infected ﬁve
children with round worms just for the sake of experiment.

These are a few instances of every—day practices in the hospitals and
clinics on the Continent. Nothing but insanity can explain or justify
such practices. They are immoral and degrading in the extreme. No
scientiﬁc clap—trap, no pretense of research, will reconcile Anglo-
Saxons to such methods. Life and health are sacred. To English-

 




20 H umcm Viw'section.

speaking physicians, the welfare of the meanest and lowest to whom
they minister, is a trust which no considerations would tempt them to
betray.

It is impossible that the American medical profession should acknowl-
edge as leaders of modern medical thought, men capable of such
atrocities. We trust that all American physicians, who go abroad for
further instruction, will go to London, where they will ﬁnd medical
men as honorable and clean-minded as themselves, and methods free
from the taint of degeneracy, which contaminates all the so-called dis-
coveries and inventions of Continental Europe.

The mental attitude of medical men, who can coolly infect the help-
less bodies of babes and women with virulent poisons, is horrible to
contemplate. Such a man rivals the unspeakable Turk in his depravity,
and puts an indelible stain upon the fair fame of medicine. If words
can shock, and sear, and blister his mind into a consciousness of the
awful nature of his crime, then it is the duty of Anglo-Saxon physi-
cians to unceasingly speak those words.”

 

 

More timely speech was never uttered. Let us hope that
before long, these words will be echoed throughout the Medi-
cal press of America. But in one respect, there is a grave
error. The practice of Human Vivisection has infected even
Anglo—Saxon physicians, and found expression in the hospitals
of Boston and Baltimore. Even London is not free from it,
as the following cases show.

 

 

Human Vivisection in England.

On January 26, 1899, the correspondent of the London Mom-
mg Leader at Vienna telegraphed from that city, that he had
interviewed a number of physicians regarding the revelations
mentioned at the beginning of this article; and that none of
them ventured to make a direct denial “that dangerous experi—
ments had been practiced on patients.” One distinguished sur-
geon declared that “in most hospitals, patients are made use
of in the Cause of Science. . . . I think you will ﬁnd
this sort of thing is carried on in Berlin and Paris, and also in
London.” .

The eminent surgeon was undoubtedly right. In England,
Dr. Sydney Ringer, while Physician to the University College
Hospital of London, frequently tested the poisonous effects of
various drugs upon patients under his care, not for their bene—
ﬁt in any way, but solely as the vivisector would give the drug

 

 

:: -:ewm=m.————.___V. M

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Human Vivisection. 0 I

H

to a dog,——to observe the consequences. The following
instances are taken from his work on “THERAPEUTICS,” pub—
lished in this country, by Wm. Wood & Co. of New York City.

Poisoning with Salicine. “In conjunction with Mr. Bury, I have made
some investigations concerning the action of salicine on the human
body, using healthy children for our experiments, to Whom we gave doses
sufﬁcient to produce toxic (poisonous) symptoms.

“Our ﬁrst set of experiments were made on a lad of ten.

He was admitted with belladonna poisoning, but our observations
were not commenced until some days after his complete recovery.”
[This patient was therefore experimented on after his complete recovery,
and when he should have been discharged from the hospital as cured]
Among the effects recorded during this experiment are “severe frontal
headache, so severe that the lad shut his eyes and buried his head in
his arm”;—“became very dull and stupid, lying with his eyes closed”;—
“complained of tingling like pins and needles,”——and other symptoms
indicating severe depression.

In Case II, the experiments were made on a lad who had recovered
from pneumonia, “his temperature having become normal ten days
previously.” After being duly poisoned, various symptoms are
recorded,—vomiting, dulness, deafness, laboured breathing, spasmodic
movements, and quickened respiration and pulse. In fact, his symp-
toms frightened the vivisector: “we must confess we felt a little relief
when the toxic (poisonous) symptoms, which became far more
marked than we had expected, abated.” (pp. 585, 588, 590, 591.)

If the lad had died, to what cause would his death have been
ascribed in the hospital reports? In such case, would Dr.
Sydney Ringer have been a murderer,—or what?

Poisoning with Gelsemium. “Gelsemium,” says Dr. Ringer, “is a
powerful paralyzer and respiratory poison. . . . In order to test
the effects on man, I gave it to six persons on seventeen occasions,
in doses sufﬁcient to produce decidedly toxic (poisonous) effects.”
“To test the effect of gelsemium on the circulation, I made thirty-three
series of observations on patients, in whom we induced the full toxic
(poisonous) effects.” Among the symptoms which Dr. Ringer produced
by this poison upon patients who supposed that they were receiving
some remedy for their ailments, were pain, giddiness, dimness of sight,
weakness in the legs and double vision. One patient described his pain
“as if the crown of the head were being lifted off in two places”; “the
headache and pain in the eyeballs were often severe, and were intensiﬁed
on moving the eyes.” “One patient, on both occasions on which I
experimented on him, complained of a numb pain.” (pp. 498-503.)

Poisoning with Nitrite of Sodium. “To eighteen adults, fourteen men
and four women—we ordered ten grains of pure nitrite of sodium in an

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22 H uni-an Vivisection.

ounce of water, and of these, seventeen declared they were unable to
take it. One man, a burly, strong fellow, suffering only from a little
rheumatism, said that after taking the ﬁrst dose he felt giddy as if
he “would go off insensible.” His lips, face and hands turned blue,
and he had to lie down an hour and a half before he dared to move.
His heart ﬂuttered, and he suffered from throbbing pains in the head.
He was urged to take another dose, but declined on the ground that
he had a wife and family. . . . The women appear to have suffered
more than the men.” . . . One woman “felt a trembling sensa:
tion, and suddenly fell to the ﬂoor; whilst lying there she perspired
profusely, her face and head throbbed Violently until she thought they
would burst. . . . Another woman said she thought she would
have died, after taking a dose; in less than ﬁve minutes her lips
turned quite black, and throbbed for hours; she was afraid she would

never get over it.”
Drs. Ringer and lidurrill in The Lancet, London, Nov. 3, I88 3.

There is not the slightest pretense that any of these adminis-
trations of poison were made in way of medical treatment for
the beneﬁt of the patient, and Dr. Ringer constantly speaks of
them as “experiments.”

Two questions suggest themselves.

I. One cannot carry on a series of poisonings without,—
now and then,———“unfortunate accidents.” Perhaps all of Dr.
Ringer’s experiments were exceptionally fortunate, but how do
we know? I f death should occur during such experiments on a
hospital patient, how would it be reported to the authorities?

2. A scientiﬁc experimenter upon Human Beings has no
malice toward his victims, nor any desire to cause their death.
But if death occurs, under what existing law, in England or
America, can a scientiﬁc investigator be punished?

An instance of this kind occurred in France:

The Viviseotion of an Orphan Boy.

A correspondent of the Newcastle Daily Chronicle in a
letter published Sept. 21, 1888, writing from Lyons, France,
stated that “much indignation is felt here by the reported
intention of President Carnot to make Dr. Gailleton, physician,
Commander of the Legion of Honor. The cause of the indig-
nation is this. Some few years back, Dr. Gailleton was con-
demned in the Courts for his treatment of an orphan boy,
belonging to one of the charitable institutions. By way of

 

 




 

 

H ant-an Vivisection. 2 3

experiment, Dr. Gailleton inoculated the boy with a certain
horrible disease. . . . The boy took the disease, and died.
When placed on his trial, Dr. Gailleto-n defended his conduct on
the ground that what he had done, he had done for the advancement
of Science.”

Would public opinion in America regard this excuse as a
sufﬁcient defense for subjecting a friendless lad to a horrible
death?

Inoculation of Children with Syphilis.

There are some forms of Human Vivisection, so suggestive
of demoniac conception, so horrible as a revelation of Scientiﬁc
depravity, that we shudder to think them possible to beings
bearing the human form. One of these is the deliberate
infection: of children,—of innocent girlhood,——with loathsome
and incurable disease. The MEDICAL PRESS AND CIRCULAR
(England) of March 29, 1899, states that a short time since

“a member of the German Parliament called attention to the fact that a
certain professor had published observations from which it appeared

that he had injected eight healthy persons . . . with the result of
communicating syphilis to four ’of them. The Minister admitted the
gravity *of the charge, and promised an inquiry. . . . The incrim-

inated professor is Dr. Neisser, and the observations referred. to- are
comprised in Vol. XLIV. of the Arehiv fiir Dermatologie and Syphilis.

With this serum he injected eight girls, ﬁve by subcutaneous
and three by intravenous injection. A girl belonging to the ﬁrst series
. came to the Hospital three years later “suffering from cerebral
syphilis. All three girls belonging to the second group developed
syphilis, one a month, another between ﬁve and six months, and the
third a year after the inoculation. Oithese eight girls, four developed
syphilis.”

Does the London journal which reports these awful experi—
ments denounce them as a crime against every law of morality?
Not at all. It simply says that “it would be difﬁcult to acquit
Dr. Neisser of a large measure of responsibility in respect of the
causation of syphilis in these cases!” Could reprooi be more
gentle? The facts are also admitted (but without reproof), by
the London LANCET of May 6, 1899, page 1261.

What is to be the judgment of the American people upon
Science untouched by Morality? With Tennyson, are we not
compelled to describe her as

“—some wild Pallas from the brain of demons”?

 




24 Human Vivisection.

Inoculation of Mothers with the Vilest of Diseases.

Not less infamous than this sacriﬁce of children to Moloch,
is the deliberate empoisonment in the name of Science of young
mothers who have just passed through the pangs of maternity.
An English physician, Dr. R. E. Dudgeon, in the ABOLITIONIST
of April 15, 1899, tells us,—giving as his authorities certain
medical journals,——that

 

“Professor E. Finger, of Vienna (Allg. Wiener med. Zeitg., Nos. 50 and
51), inoculated three healthy women, recently conﬁned, with an
infectious disease of a loathsome and shameful character. The ﬁrst
case was inoculated eight days after childbirth. The second case was
inoculated ﬁve days after childbirth. The third case was inoculated
ten days after conﬁnement. These three unsuspecting women all
took the disease in its characteristic virulence. They were all trans-
ferred to the department of the hospital devoted to this foul disease,
as they were suffering from this disease artiﬁcially produced by an-
unscrupulous doctor. The ﬁrst victim was kept there twelve weeks,
the second four weeks, and the third ﬁve weeks. We can imagine the
feelings of these poor and probably respectable women compelled, for
no fault of their own, to herd with diseased women of infamous life.”

 

 

 

, Experiments on Pauper Women and New-born Babies.

In the DEUTSCHE MEDICINISCHE W'OCHENSCHRIFT (The
German Medical Weekly) of 1894, Nos. 46 to 48, Dr. K.
Menge, of the University Hospital for Women in Leipsic, gives
a report of a large number of experiments made by inoculating
his patients with morbid material. He says:

“The bacteria I used in my eighty experiments on thirty—ﬁve differ-
ent patients of the ‘Royal Institute’ were taken either from diseased
mammary glands; from the discharges of recently conﬁned women,
suffering from Puerperal Fever, or from cultivations I had made from
the pus in the abdominal cavity of a person who had died of peritonitis. All
the bacteria planted were capable of taking root and ﬂourishing.”

Referring to the theories and methods of another physician, the
experimenter adds: “My experiments on new—born babies (girls) dis-
proved the correctness of the professor’s deductions. Unfortunately, I
could get only three babies to experiment on. These, I took immediately after
birth. They were not bathed, but at once wrapped up in sterile linens, and
carried to my laboratory. I inoculated these subjects with very considerable
quantities of staphylococci,” (disease-producing germs).

Dr. Kroenig, assistant at the Leipsic University Clinic, reported that
he had made similar experiments on eighty-two pauper women who were
awaiting confinement at the “Royal Institute” above mentioned. His
object was to observe the surest way of breeding purulent bacteria.

 

 




 

 

Human Vivisection. 2 5

What is the opinion of American fathers and mothers upon
such scientiﬁc use of new-born infants, thus removed from their
mother to the laboratory of the vivisector, and there inoculated
with loathsome diseases? I

Inoculation with Tuberculin and Germs of Consumption.

In the same periodical of February 19th, 1891, we read that
Professor Schreiber, of Konigsberg, wishing to try the effects
of tuberculin injections on new-born children, was allowed by
the director of the Midwifery Hospital of Konigsberg to
operate on 40 infants. He began with one decimilligram
and continued to inject the tuberculin in ever—increasing
quantities, until he at last injected as much as 5 centigrams,
about 50 times as much as Koch said was the maximum dose for
children of 3 to 5 years old. Schreiber says he had the “kind
permission” of the chief of the Hospital, Professor Dohrn, to
make his experiments on these infants.

Desiring to observe the effects of tuberculin injections on a
child of a tuberculous family, Schreiber persuaded a labouring
man to allow his little son, whose mother was suffering from
pulmonary consumption, to be operated on. He says:

“I am sorry to say that it is very difﬁcult to obtain subjects for
such experiments. There are, of course, plenty of healthy children
in consumptive families, but the parents are not always willing to
give them up. Finally, I got a little boy for the purpose. The treat-
ment to which I subjected him was to be a sort of punishment for
some slight bit of naughtiness of which he had been guilty at home.
I had been entreating the parents to let me have the boy for some
time, but the father relented only when the child deserved punish-
ment. He said to him: ‘Now you shall be inoculated. My patient
was very susceptible to the poison. After I had given him an injection
of one milligramme, the most intense fever seized him. It lasted three
or four days; one of the glands of the jaw swelled up enormously.
I cannot yet say whether the boy will be consumptive in consequence of my
treatment.”

Children Cheaper than Calves for Vivisection.

In a lecture before the MEDICAL SOCIETY or STOCKHOLM,
May 12, 1891, Dr. Jansen of the Charity Hospital of that city
reported certain experiments he had made.

 

 




 

26 H inn-an Vivisection.

“When I beganiny experiments with smallpox pus, I should,
perhaps, have chosen animals for the purpose. But the most ﬁt sub-
jects, calves, were obtainable only at considerable cost. There was,
besides, the cost of their keep, so I concluded to make my experiments
upon the children of the Fonndlings’ Home, and obtained kind permission
to do so from the head physician, Professor Medin. ’

“I selected fourteen children, who were inoculated day after day.
Afterward I discontinued them, and used calves. . . . I did not
continue my experiments on calves long, once because I despaired
of gaining my ends within a limited period, and again because the calves
were so expensive. I intend, however, to go back to my experiments in
the Fon-ndling Asylum at some future time.”

Proposed Vivisection of Criminals.

At a meeting of the TRI—STATE MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, held
at Peoria, Ill., Oct. 3, I893, Dr. John S. Pyle, a graduate of
Bellevue Medical College in I886, read a paper entitled “A
Plea for the appropriation of Criminals, condemned to capital
punishment, to the Experimental Physiologist.” It is the pro—
posal of an educated physician and surgeon to imitate here in
America, the practice of Herophilus in Alexandria, two thou-
sand years ago. . ‘

Dr. Pyle suggests that for the purpose of these human vivi-
sections,

“a building should be especially erected, and every form of mechani—
cal appliance provided for prosecution of psychical inquiry and studies
of the general nervous system. A body of expert Physiologists, .
should be appointed to carry out the commands of the State. Every
person interested in Scientiﬁc studies or physiological and psychical
inquiry should be admitted to executions.”—(p. 8.)

At the same time, Dr. Pyle would not admit any who are
unable to comprehend “the work done,” for it is evident that
otherwise, some might obtain admission to the spectacle who
would view it with some emotion, possibly of abhorrence,——-
perhaps of pity; and for judgments thus arising, he has only
contempt. But a new Era, he tells us, is about to dawn when
emotion will be relegated to its proper place. Regarding
the vivisection of criminals, he says:

“It was anticipated in the beginning that a large majority of people
would enter a protest, on account of their environment and culture

 




 

 

Human Vivisection. 27

having produced a condition of mind unfavorable for impartial judg—
ment. . . . At this particular period the signs of the times betoken
the inauguration of- a new era of Intellectual culture. We are upon its
very threshold. The way is blocked with strong nervous predispositions,
acquired through improper direction in the Past; and it must be opened
up. The Emotional element will have to be eradicated, and Reason allowed
to assert itself. . . . For our safe guidance, the Understanding only
can be consulted. That a modiﬁed form of Stoicism would spring up
through the instrumentality of a higher plane of psychological knowl-
edge will be without hesitation conceded.” . . . (pp. 5-7.)

It is impossible to deny that Stoicism and Human Vivisec-
tion must go together.

The views thus advocated, apparently have not been aban-
doned. In a periodical published by D. Appleton & Co.—
the NEW YORK MEDICAL JOURNAL for June 10, 1899, Dr.
Pyle suggests an experimental operation upon a human being
in order to prove the possibility of the excision of the lung
as a cure of consumption! He says :—

“From experiments which I have made on animals, I am satisﬁed
that excision of diseased lung is not only a possibility, but compara-
tively easy of accomplishment. I commenced my studies on the sub-
ject in the fall of 1894, and continued them through the winter of 1894
and 1895. Dogs were used for experimental work. My observations
at the time were interrupted, and I am sorry that I have been unable thus
far, to put the knowledge gained into execution on the human subject. How—
ever, I hope to do this before a great while. . . . Here would be a
case where a trial operation upon a capital criminal would be of incalculable
benefit. Could we obtain such practical information, it would imme-
diately put us in possession of knowledge that could be turned to
good account. However, we hope that a favorable opportunity will
present itself, and we shall soon be able to verify our views.” (p. 818.)

There is something very signiﬁcant in this conﬁdence that
“before a great while” there will be an opportunity to make
that experiment on man which has hitherto been made on
dogs, and to “put the knowledge gained into execution on
the human subject.” There is no probability that the State of
Ohio will furnish a condemned criminal for this purpose.
Upon who-m then, will such an experiment be made?

Vivisection of the Rich.

Because in the foregoing instances HUMAN VIVISECTION
seems to select for its Victims the new-born babe, the deserted
or outcast mother, the friendless, the ignorant, the poor, per-

 




 

28 H ninan Vivisection.

haps some reader may fancy that at least no danger of this
nature can ever threaten his own loved ones. It may be that
he says: “Let Science work her will on these lower orders of
Humanity; we, at least, are secure, guarded by social position,
protected by wealth.”

If so, one forgets History. Once the foundations of morality
are undermined concerning the sacredness of human life, and
there is safety for no one. Did N ihilism spare the Czar? Did
Anarchy respect an Empress? If we may trust the warnings
of those men who should know the truth, the lust for experi-
mentation in certain directions long since overleapt the gates
of the hospital, and to—day ﬁnds victims elsewhere than among
the poor.

Dr. J. Burney Yeo, a leading physician of London, writing
in the Nineteenth Century for December, 1895, refers to the
charge that

“surgical operations are now constantly performed, not for the advantage
of the patients, but for the pecuniary benefit of the operators. This is
really a very serious charge, and, I deeply grieve to think, one not
altogether unfounded.”

MEDICAL REPRINTS in its issue of May 16, 1893, says:

“Professors Leon Le Fort, Verneuil, Duplay and Tillaux of Paris,
have been asked by a public journal for their opinion on the operative
mania said to be prevalent at present. . . . Prof. Le Fort, in a long
letter, protested against the custom among young French surgeons,
in order to bring their names before the public, to seek out some
operation unknown in France, and then seek out a victim on whom
they can perform it. Prof. Verneuil protests against the abuse of opera-
tions, and especially of gynaecological operations (those performed on
women.) He deplores the prnrigo scandi,—“the itch for cutting,”—
with which so many French surgeons are attacked.”

Dr. J. Russell Reynolds, F.R.S., Fellow of the Royal Col-
lege of Physicians, and editor of a “System of Medicine” pub-
lished both in England and America, made equally grave
charges in an address before a medical society, reported in
the British Medical fonrnal, Oct. 15, 1881.

“There is ‘meddling and muddling’ of a most disreputable sort.
Physicians have coined names for trifling nialadies,——if they have
not invented them—and have set fashions of disease. They have

 

 




 

 

Human Vivisection. 29
treated,—or maltreated—their patients . . . sometimes for years,

and when, by some accident, the patient has been removed from their
care, she has become quite well!”

It is evident that in these terrible charges, they are not pauper
patients, who have been “maltreated for years.”

Is there any Connection between Animal Vivisection and. these
Experiments ?

Dr. Edward Berdoe, member of the Royal College of Sur—
geons, and a well-known London practitioner, recently wrote
to the editor of the London Chronicle as follows:

Sir: The community at large is deeply indebted to you for your bold
and outspoken protest against the Vivisection of Human Beings, espe-
cially in connection with hospitals for women. These things have been
exposed and protested against by the older school of practitioners
for many years past. In the British Illedical Journal of May 27, 1887,_
Dr. C. H. Stratz is quoted with reference to his severe strictures on
“The Operative Madness” (Furor Operativus.) “It is astonishing,”
he says, “to read on what slight excuse a difﬁcult and dangerous
operation was performed.” In the same journal, Jan. 5, 1878, there
is a report of a very terrible operation, which seems to have caused
the death of several patients. A great physician present asked: “Why
was it done .9” . . . The fact is, Sir, the rage for mangling animals in
the cause of physiological science has developed this operative madness
against which your correspondent protests. It is the young vivisecting
school which is at the bottom of the mischief, and it must be checked by some
such means as those you suggest, or our hospitals,——as you say,—will be
turned into butchers’ shops.”

The foregoing record of Human Vivisections is by no
means complete, but the few instances brought forward afford
fair examples of the practice which, within the last few years,
has been introduced from the Age of Paganism into the civil-
ized world. By the great majority of those who compose the
Medical profession in the United States, we believe that such
experiments as these will be unhesitatingly condemned. But
that condemnation will not be universal. No physician would
venture to make experiments on children, such as those
recorded in certain medical journals, unless he were absolutely
sure that among an influential class of his associates, there
would be tacit approval.

 




30‘ H innan Viviseetion.

The practice of Human experimentation suggests questions
of serious concern to every one.

What is the connection between animal vivisection,——carried
on as now in America, without legal supervision or restraint,—
and the scientiﬁc use of women and children as “material”
for experiments? Do they stand in the relation of cause and
effect? Must the “fury of research” in the pathologist invaria-
bly direct him from the animal laboratory to the ward of the
hospital,——the bedside of the young mother, the cradle of the
new—born infant, the crib of the dying child?

What means this strange absence of all condemnation by
scientiﬁc periodicals andscientiﬁc societies? The leading medi-
cal journals of America have been untiring in their opposition
to the slightest check or supervision upon the torments of vivi-
sected animals. W hy has no word been uttered by them against
scientific nnn'dei‘? Has it indeed become “a pardonable
crime”?

What is your opinion regarding the experiments here
reported? Do you approve of child-sacriﬁce, if only it be done
in the “interests of Science?” Or should the use of infants,
of children for all such horrible experiments as those of Fitch,
of Wentworth, of Ringer, of Gailleton, of Menge, of Epstein,
of Schreiber, of Schimmelsbusch, of Jansen and others, be
made a crime in every American State?

Upon the morality of these experiments and upon the spirit
which underlies them; upon the question whether they should
be forbidden or encouraged,—THE AMERICAN HUMANE Asso—
CIATION invites a personal expression of opinion from all to
whom this pamphlet shall come.

 

 

-~_~v;_—“A:—r—-, : far 1;: A A h w

:1~4_~g~f ,.

*wzﬂc ‘ﬁr‘vfage‘i‘z-W 3-4;.“a-Wr‘t“. "11":‘2, 37‘. “?‘,..Q""A—FP W‘T-ﬁ . ’5 73:22! -

-/. «7' ~

*ﬂ’-rin"w“ﬁ"r7ﬁ“wr\'rrtvr“i < .. :u an. was—wrm -A-\.

-., -r 7“” ﬁgrr-

 




 

 

 

 

'15 T1118 the Pathway to Human VIVISectton 9'

Concerning Animal ViVisection four different opinions may I
be held We may regard it as morally wrong under all
Circumstances as allowable only when there is no inﬂictiOH of

I pain as permissible where some deﬁnitely useful result 15 sure

to be attained a11d ﬁnally, as perfeCtly justiﬁable and rightIII I

1 under all Circumstances irrespective of the torment given or .

the end in VieW,——so long as periOrmed With a scientiﬁc pur— V

' pOse. In other WOrds, SCience or the attainment of a scientiﬁc

fact is supreme and justifies conduct etherwise infamous and - 1I
cruel.11 -

In the report 011 “ViVisection in America” made by. the}

AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION in 1895, there appears a. ~

statement of this phase of opinion to Which signatures 01' men

. holding. high positions were attached. It reads in part, as, I. ,

leloWs

"VIVISECTION or experimentatio-n upon living creatures, must be
looked at simply as a method '01 studying the phenOmena of Life.
With it Morality has nothing to Ido. It should be subject neither to

'crit1c1s.n1 supervision, nor iestrictions of any kind.- It may be usedf'
to any extent desired by any experimenter (no matter What degree of 5

extreme Or piolonged pain it may involVe) for demonstration before:_

students of the Statements CCntained in their text- books, as an aid to I-

‘ ‘ mei'nOryI; for conﬁrmation of theories, for original research, or for

any conceivable purpose of investigation into vital phenomena. We
Consider that sentiment has no place in the physiOlogical labOratory; I'

that aniinals'have thereino‘ ‘rightS” whiCh Man is Called upon to notice
or‘respect; that Science cannotbe ‘cruel’.’ when her Sole purpose is

to investigate or demonstrate. 1 - ,
And ﬁnally, While We claim many. discoveries of value in the treat:
111th Of human ailments to have been due to experiments upon

animals, yet even these We regard as of secondary importanCe to they 'I

freedom of unlimited research, and the independence of Science from all‘
restrictions or restraints -' . . . 7 .

Is not this reasoning the very pathway to Human ViVisec— 1 ,
tion? .. I
Science, then, is to be free “from all restrictions and ' I
restraints” ? I . ‘ . I 1; - ' ' . ~ - 1

Of all those sCientit'ic experimenters to Whose human vivi— ..
sections this pamphlet refers, was there one who did not begin .

by acceptance of this creed?

 




 

The AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION was organized in 1877, for

“"-',"‘-,the purpose of promoting. unity and concert 0f actiOn among the

1‘Arner1can soc1et1es, having for their object the prevention Of Cruelty

’gf-to children and animals. FOr nearly twenty— two years it has endeav?
A“ Cored to carry out this purpose, principally through deliberative cori- C
ventions, held annually in various cities throughout the Union, and

d-fin Canada At the last meeting of the Association in Washington,
' D C, it Was decided somewhat to enlarge its ﬁeld of activity, and to

'75,“,{111ake the As'sOciation more of an Educational force in awakening

I-V‘lgi‘lpublic sentiment to the need of various reforms.

: The principal methods through which the AMERICAN: HUMANE
_As$ociAT10-N Will aim to accomplish this purpose is by the systematic

H: diStri-buti-on of Humane Literature So far as fund's permit, it pro--
- poses to promulgate the ideals of humane conduct in every direction

1 ‘ ..:Where necessity exists. Among the subjects regarding which it would

 

'iSeek-more- thoroughly to arouse public sentiment are the abuses
connected with the treatment of domestic animals; the transportation
of cattle; their slaughter for food; the extermination of birds for the
7.‘_den1ands of fashion} the abuses of vivisection when carried On, as
‘ ;_nOw, without State supervision or control; the cruelties pertaining
to ch11d11fe and above all, the great and growing abomination of
' -HHMAN VIVISECTION, in the subjection of children to scientific experi-
V mentation as described in the present pamphlet. 1
l The extent to which this work can be carried out will depend upon *
the assistance received. All interested are urgently solicited to con-
tribute. towards this object. Every dollar so contributed will be'
‘devoted exclusively. to the publication and dissemination of Humane»
1, 'Diteraiture. Should Subscribers desire their contributions to be espe—
'__icially_devoted to any one of the above lines of this humanitarian work,
their» preferenceswill be observed.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, D.D.,
".‘reas. Humane Literature Committee,
No. 163 Winter street, V
Fall River, M ass.

 




HUMAN VIVISECTION.

The truth concerning certain awful cases of experimentation
upon human beings referred to in the pamphlet on “HUMAN
VIVISECTION ” (p. 2 3) has been substantiated beyond question
by the proceedings in the Prussian Diet, March 5th, I900,
and recorded in the London Daily C/zrmzz'c/e, March 7th, as
follows : —

REUTER’s TELEGRAM, BERLIN, March 6, 1900.

In the Lower House of the Prussian Diet today, on the consid-
eration of the Estimates of the Ministry of Public Worship, Herr
von Pappenheim called attention to the experiments which Pro-
fessor Neisser, of Breslau, had made with certain serum on children
and adults. It had also been shown that similar experiments had
been made by other universities.

The Government Commissioner, in reply, said that on December
13th last the Public Prosecutor decided to act, but it was subse—
quently found that, owing to the lapse of time since the commission
of the offence, it had fallen under the statute of limitations. On
January 16th the Government ordered the disciplinary examina-
tion of Professor N eisser.

The Minister of Public Worship, in reply, stated that so far as
he was personally concerned he had no hesitation in declaring that
he extremely regretted what had occurred. He would give every
guaram‘ee t/mz‘ sue/z eases s/zouZ/Z 7202‘ reeur, and that a certain supervi-
sion should be exercised to that effect.

Professor Virchow said that t/zere was 720 jusz‘zﬁeaz‘z'mzﬂr t/ze Brent/(m
experiments. Restrictions upon scientiﬁc research should not,
however, be so extended as to close the door altogether to experi-
ments. Rational experiments should not be prevented, and, in
fact, could not be prevented.

 








