 

The Oﬂicial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S.W.1.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

VOL. VIII. N0. 9. SEPTEMBER. I934. 2d. MONTHLigsﬁ/gff annum'

 

 

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 66 THE ERNEST BELL MEMORIAL
PUBLIC IVIEETING AT LYNTON . .. 67 FOX-HUNTING. BY HENRY S. SALT

Tﬂe Editor accepts no respomiéi/z'ty for opinions expressed i7: signed articles.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 

 




 

Page Sixty-six

CRUEL SPORTS

September, I 934

 

VIEWS AND NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Propaganda

We desire to revert to the suggestion, made
in our last issue, inviting our readers to co-
operate with us in carrying through a vigorous
Winter’s work. Now is the time to secure open-
ings with Literary and other societies, also to
distribute leaﬂets’and to initiate correspondence
in the local press.

Some of our workers may think that because
their letters to editors are not insert-ed they
have failed. This is not so, for every letter is
read either by the editor or his ‘sub,’ and, where
good points are made, has the effect of educating
both and so modifying their attitude to our
Cause. We, therefore, urge our correspondents
never to be discouraged and, sooner or later,
they will see of the travail of their efforts not
only in the increasing sympathy of their editors
but in a corresponding leavening of public
opinion.

Carnival of Blood Lust Reopens

The month of August, which is considered the
sunniest and most precious of all the months
of the year to the jaded town-dweller and his
children, is also the month when the Annual
Carnival of Blood-Lust reopens. During this
month the ﬂood-gates of the Hades of Organi-
zed Cruelty for Pleasure are thrown wide, and
the, so-called, elite of the land start on another
orgy of debasement and desecration.

It is a pitiful thought that the season of the
year most sacred to rest, joy and recuperation
of body, mind, and soul, should also be de-
bauched with the wanton shooting of the winged
creatures of the wild, the sordidness of stag-hunt-
ing, and the massacre of baby-foxes. But so it
is. And when one remembers that all this is
done by the richest, most educated, and inﬂuen-
tial people in the country, and as pleasure, it
shows how really pagan is our boasted civilization
at heart.

What are we going to- do about it? What can
We do about it? What can any little society
like ours do about it?

We can do much. We can carry on as we
start-ed in the ﬁrm faith that humanity and
righteousness never fail, and that if we faint not
we shall succeed. Workers here and there may
pass, as they have done all too frequently re-
cently; our exchequer may sink low and compel
retrenchment, but The Cause will stand what-
ever else happens. Humanity cannot be squashed
by even lordly man’s murderous machinations,

for Nemesis always wins and brings to the dust
all who dare stand in its way.

The Cause will triumph all the sooner, how-
ever, if we, the standard-bearers, raise high our
banner, never say die, and press strenuously for
The Prize; and it is in this spirit we plead for
a resumption of our winter’s work and for the
increased support of our friends.

O, Little Ones! Your glances .mute,
Speak fuller faith than tongue can tell;
Shame on our wincings, we’ll to arms,
And break your piteo-us, hideous Hell.

World Day for Animals

October 4th, the day dedicated to St. Francis
of AsSisi, is ‘ World Day for Animals,’ when
humanitarians everywhere are urged to do three
things:

1. Direct Attention to the wrongs inﬂicted

on animal-s in ‘ sport ’ and in other ways;

2. Focus Thought on the speediest means of

abolishing such wrongs;

3. Inspire Action on behalf of all such suffer-

ing animals.
We warmly commend the Celebration to our
readers and hope they will ﬂood the press with
letters condemning all cruelties to animals,
particularly the iniquity of ‘Blood’ Sports.

Ernest Bell Memorial

On another page we announce the formal
launching of the proposed Memorial of a
Humanitarian Library to the late Mr. Ernest
Bell. The idea is not only inherently happy as
a personal memorial, but also so full of promise
of real service to the Humanitarian Cause that it
seems almost superﬂuous to commend it to our
readers. It will, however, considerably strengthen
the hands of the Committee that is being ap-
pointed to carry forward the project, if readers
Secretaries of Societies and Editors will send a
message of support to the Hon. Secretary so that
it may be made as difﬁcult as possible for what-
ever Public Institution is ultimately approached
to refuse the request of the Committee.

Mrs. Drakoules Memorial

The Fund for this Memorial having now been
closed the Committee desires to thank the friends
and supporters and to say that a. sum of slightly
over £100 has been received; also, that steps will
forthwith be taken to complete the work of
arranging for the Bird Bath decided upon. An
unveiling ceremony will be arranged and an-
nounced in due course.

 




September, I934 C R U E. L

S P O R T S Page Sixty-seven

 

 

PUBLIC MEETING A T LYN TON
AGAINST S TAG-H UN TING

The REV. S. SUMNER, Bristol, formerly of
Chawleigh, presided, on Tuesday, August 7th,
at a meet-ing in Lynton Town Hall under the
joint auSpices of The League for the Prohibition
of Cruel Sports, The Oxford and District Society
for the Abolition of Cruel Sports, and The
National Council for Animals’ Welfare. At the
opening of the meeting there was an attendance
of about 20 in the body of the hall, and it in-
creased to 40.

Mr. SHARP, Secretary of the League, read
messages of sympathy with the objects of the
meeting.

Mr. LOVAT FRASER, M.P., wished it every
success and that it would be “ a good meeting.”

Mr. EDEN PHILLPOTTS sent “ cordial good
wishes ” and hoped “ men of Goodwill ”
abounded in Lynton. He added, that the efforts
of the amalgamated societies would “ command
very widespread attention.”

THE DU-CHESS OF HAMILTON AND
BRANDON sent her “ best wishes ” for the
success of the meeting.

“ So many peOple, ” she added, “are curiously
muddle-headed on this question of blood sports.
Not very long ago a lady came to me and said
‘ my daughter is so fond of animals; do you
know because her horse was tired when out stag-
hunting she did not wait to see the stag killed.’

“I do not think,” concluded the Duchess,
“ there is anything so degenerating for men and
women as to take pleasure in what causes suffer-
ing to another living being.”

Mr. GEORGE DOUBT, a local lay-preacher
and veteran of 8’7 who has incessantly preached
against stag-hunting, was not well enough to be
at the meeting, but sent his sympathies with
the protest and hoped that it would be “ a great
inﬂuence towards ending the cruel sport of stag-
hunting in the district.”

'Mr. NORMAN CARRUTHERS GOULD
wrote that he was “ looking forward to the day
when he should be able to stride oVer the heather
of Ex-moor and wander up its coombes with an
eye open to its wild life and the added pleasure
of knowing that its sanctuary is no longer
desecrated by cruel sports.”

CHARLIE ROGERS, M.M., an Exmoor
farmer who: has suffered seriously by foxes for
several years, wrote: “ I have lost heavy this
Spring and summer by foxes and no doubt the
Hunt would be glad to pay something ifonly
I would let them ride over my land. But I still
stick to my gun and shoot every fox I can.”

THE CHAIRMAN then addressed the meet-
ing. He described it as a little company, but
he hoped sympathetic, and, proceeding, said he
could not picture in those beautiful surroundings
the hue and cry of a stag hunt, or think of
hounds haying and rushing helter-skelter after a
poor creature in terror for its very life. It did
not seem to ﬁt in, and it was a great disgrace to
our humanity. It was a selﬁsh and unchristian
sport. He knew farmers said, and he believed,
that the deer did damage to crops, but if so
why not shoot them? He asked that the in-
ﬂuence of these bloody scenes on the rising
generation should be pictured. The thirst after
blood was bad enough; it was the cause of the
last war, and would probably be the cause of
the next. We had become very hard-hearted.
On the roads men were run down these days,
and motorists passed on.

Mr. EDWIN F. MORE, of The League for
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, said it would be
be a sad day for Devon if instead of sounding the
praises of its. cream and cider and its moors and
glens, the names of such places as Lynton,
Min-ehead, and Porlock stank in the nostrils oi
the British sport-loving people and the tourist
fraternity. People of Lynton had. to think 01
the wider appeal. They could not, Mr. More
said, get a billposter locally who had pluck
enough to cover the hoardings with their bills.
People knew on which side their bread was
buttered. They had to keep “ mum.” The
hotel proprietors had to keep “ mum.” The
tailors had to say, “ Go on with your hunting
my lord and my lady, don’t take any notice, and
we will go on and make your red coats and funny
little hats.” Proceeding, he criticised the con-
ditions of the Trust under which Col. Wiggin,
Master of the Devon and Somerset Stag-hounds,
had handed over land on Exmoor, which stipu-
lated that hunting should not be interfered with.

There was, he added, an alternative to all this
killing business that would keep everybody in
employment, even the tailors and the hotel pro-
prietors. Scientiﬁcally done, the drag hunt as
an alternative could be a very nice way of spend-
ing a day. The deer could be kept down with
decency and dispatch; they were kept doWn
during the war without hunting.

There were a few interruptions in the course
of the meeting, and exception was taken to a
description of stag-hunting by Mr. More, who,
addressing one of the audience, said: “ I know
you are sent down here to try to prevent the
meeting, if possible. You are sent down here,

 




 

Page Sixty—eight

:

 

and act very well on behalf .of those interested.
I will even give you a‘ certiﬁcate to that effect,
so that when you go back you can claim a little
bonus of £2 or £3 from your master.”

COM. J. L. CATHER, R.N., of The National
Council for Animals’ Welfare, also addressed the
meeting. He Spoke on the. ethical issues in-
volved, in the course of which he stressed the
unequal nature of the contests when hunting
animals. He declared that no stag ever got a
fair deal. The stag was a thing of beauty; the
chase turned it into a thing of horror.

Questions were invited, and a person at the
back of the hall asked if either of the speakers
had ever witnessed a. stag hunt. ~

Mr. More replied that he had not, and said he
would not cross the road to see one.

Commander Cather said he was content to
take the evidence of people Who had written
about it.

A clergyman in the audience said that a goo-d
many of them had seen stags pulled down.

Mrs. IValker King (who was on the platform)
said that a great crowd of people 'went to- the
Cloutsham opening meet for a picnic; they had
not the least idea of what was going to happen
to the stag. ’

‘ A hunting horn was sounded as the gathering
was dispersing.

 

DRAG-H UN TIN G 7). DEER-H UN TIN G

A Petition to the Chairmen of the Devon and
Somerset, the Quantock, and the Tiverto-n Stag—
hounds, begging that they will substitute the
Drag-Hunt for the Deer-Hunt, has been signed
by the following:—-The Revs. R. E. Collins, and
E. P. Groom, of Bampto‘n; Revs. A. R. Balman,
H. J. Franklin, J. T. HenW-ood, and C. D. May-
hew, of Barnstaple; Rev. .W. Williams, of
Bishop’s Hull; Rev. T. L. Nicholas, of Bishop’s
Tawton; Rev. E. H. Brine, of Bridgwater; Rev.
J. A. Watson, of Burro-Wbridge; the Rev. J.
Mogg, of Chulmleigh; the Rev. J. Black Hyland,
of Comb-e Florey; Rev. S. R. Ward, of Five-
head; Rev. T. L. Brown, of Goodleigh; Rev. F.
O. Catford, of Loxhore; Rev. J. Ash Parsons, of
Lynton; Rev. A. R. Swift, of Othery; Rev. R.
Duke, of Ruishton; Rev. D. A. Rowlan‘ds, late of
Sampford Brett; Revs. W. C. Hope, and S.
Jones, of Somerton; Revs; F. E. Bowman, and
D. Ellis, of Taunton; Rev. W. Solomon, of Tiver-
ton; Rev. -R. Pryce Jones. of \Vatchet; Rev. F.
H. Taylor, of West Lydfo-rd; Rev. T. A. Parker,
of VVinkleigh; and the Rev. F. E. Gmelin, of
VVoolavingto-n. ‘

CRUEL SPORTS

September, I 934

Also by the following Counsellors and Justices
of the Peacez—J. H. Rudd,‘“Esq., of Barnstaple;
\V. R. Norman, Esq., of Bridgwater; Jessee
Pearce, Esq., of Minehead; A. C. Oger, Esq.;
S. H. Sparkes, Esq.; and E. L. \Valker, Esq.,
of Wellington; J. Grubb, Esq., and B. S.
Somers, Esq” of “Tinsoombe; also by Miss A.
M. Peile, of Bishop Fox’s Girls’ School, Taun-
ton. 9* * *

Killing For Sport

Sir,———Some short time ago there appeared in

the columns of the IVorhsop Guardian a contro-
versy on fox hunting and killing the fox for sport
and pleasure. I refrained from taking any part
in the discussion because I knew that Reynard s
case was being very ably put by Messrs. Great-
oreX, \Vilkinson, and McLeod. But with your
permission I would like to say a few words on
the subject from a much Wider aspect, and em-
brace all kinds of killing for Sport and pleasure.

To my mind, killing anything for pleasure is
hateful; killing for food is part of what we call
the natural order of things . . .

Killing creatures which are dangerous to us
or harmful is again reckoned part of that
“ natural. order.” But when we come to killing
for pleasure, for ‘sport,” the case is altered
altogether. No one who believes in the univer-
sal Fatherhood of God could do it. We may kill
a wolf in self-defence and still believe, as did St.
Francis of Assisi, that wolves are our brothers.
But I do- not see how anyone could kill for mere
amusement a creature he believed to have been
created by a great beneﬁcial common Parent, a
member of the same great family as himself.
Large numbers who call t-hemselves Christians
prefer to spend their leisure shooting birds for
fun, or setting thirty dogs to chase a fox or hare
into a. state of wretched exhaustion and ulti-
mat-ely see them tear it to pieces.

H. G. \Vells said in his story of “ The \Von-
derful Visit,” an angel came ﬂying over Britain,
and some senseless professing Christian put up
his gun and shot it. And in my humble opinion
that is just what would happen if an angel were
to ﬂy over this supposedly Christian country. . .
FRANK SMITH in I/l/01‘7f80p Guurdirm, August 3.

9(- e(- as

" MILE OF PENNIES.”——F.E. writes: “ I
think the ‘ Mile of Pennies ’ idea is a very good
one. People will give a penny. I am a domestic
worker and this happen-ed to be my half-day so
I went from house to house with the form you
sent, and can now take four more forms.”

96 * 9(-

As Others See. us : G.B.T.N. writes -

" “ Your August Number is a. very ﬁne one.’

‘

)

 

 

l
l
l
l
i




 

 

September, ' l 934

LEEDS GROUP SOCIAL

The Leeds Group held a most enjoyable social
evening on Saturday, 21st July, at Moo-r Farm,
when Mrs. W’oodliffe very kindly lent, her house
and garden. About 50 people were present, the
proceeds being £8. Until all the guests
assembled there was croquet, clock golf, staking
a treasure claim, etc., followed by an exciting
whist drive. In the supper interval, Mrs. Beres-
ford Holmes, a new member, spoke effectively
'on the work of the League, earnestly appealing
to all present to help in removing the cruel social
evil of blood sports from our midst.

C i Q

Are Foxhunters Snobbish P

D.M.B. writes:—“ I am convinced that .much
of the popularity of fox-hunting is due to snob-
bery. This so-called Sport has been followed in
the past almost exclusively by the aristocracy,
and latterly by the wealthy company director
and gloriﬁed shop-keeper, clinging desperately,
in more senses than one, to their precarious
position.

“ A boarding-house has always been their
‘happy hunting-ground.’ It is astonishing how
inconsistent some of the dear ladies are there. One
of them informed me the other day that she
adores fox-hunting—‘ It is in my blood, my dear!
my people . . . etc.’ She leaves upon the writing
table dainty booklets of religious verses and the
parish magazine. I have now placed beside
them a copy of Cruel Sports.”

* 'I’ ‘I ‘l‘

CRUELTY IN A RACE

Farmer Who Whipped A Lean Horse

For cruelty to a horse he was riding in a race
at the Taunton Vale Hunt Steeplechases at
Ilminster, Somerset, a farmer was ﬁned £5 on
May 3flst.

It was stated that he used his whip in a cruel
and unreasonable manner.

A member of the hunt said that the horse was
a mere bag of bones.

Daily Mail, June 1-

I! Q Q

A CORRESPONDENT writes:—-“ I am a
theological student at the College, and
although at one time I was an ardent pro-
tagonist of Foxhunting, of late years I have
entirely changed my views on Blood Sports and
I should like to become a member of your
Society and help it in any way that is open to

,

me.

 

CRUEL,

ESPORTS
DESTRUCTION OF FOXES

To the Editor of the Birmingham Post.

Sir,——As a sequel to the poor season experienced
by the North Warwickshire Hounds in 1933-34,
Hunt ofﬁcials have been carrying out a farm-to-
farm enquiry with the View of ascertaining the
cause of the scarcity of fox-es. The methods
adopted by the investigators are. interpreted by
many farmers as being intimidatory—an attempt
to get the-m to incriminate their neighbours—and
consequently are strongly resented. . . .

That fox-es are secretly being destroyed in in-
creasing numbers is undeniable. It is a natural
result of poultry-keeping being taken up by more
and more farmers, who, owing to the presence
of foxes, have to spend on protective devices
for their stock much money which otherwise
would be saved.

Page Seventy-one

, .A MINORI AD MAJUS.
Redditch, July 13.

Q I O
I34 Deer Killed In 100 Days .

A deﬁcit due to the bank at the end of April
amounting to £540 was revealed at the annual
meeting of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds
Hunt Committee.

Reporting on the hunting of deer during the
past season, Colonel W. Wiggin, who was re-
appointed Master of the Hunt, said that on the
100 days on which the hounds were taken out 134
deer had been killed. It had, he said, been the
best hunting season he had known during the
time he had been master.

—Manchester Guardian.

i i i

Otter Hunting

Whilst passing over the Keeper’s Bridge, near
Bridgend, I was attracted by a large crowd of
people enjoying a so-called morning’s “ British
Sport.” On investigating I found that there
were approximately 80 hounds and about 20
active huntsmen with pointed staves wading
knee-deep in the EWenny Brook chasing one
small, defenceless and harmless otter. It is
regrettable that such orgies—for one can hardly
apply the word‘sport—eshould be allowed to be
carried our—SPORTSMAN.

‘ 2- v—Cardiﬁ‘ Echo.

, a

9|? ‘1‘
Hunting Woman Fined -
Miss ————————, a member of the Pytchley
Hunt Pony Club, was ﬁned 10s. at Welling-
borough, Northamptonshire, on July 27th, for
cruelty to a horse at a hospital carnival.
It was stated that her spurs and boots were
covered with blood after the horse refused to
take a jump.

 




 

Page-Seventy—two ' - c R U E L s P o R T s September, 1934

The League For The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

l0], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALD‘SON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

 

V: ce-Presidents—

lﬁDi CLARE ANNESLEY. . GERALD GOULD, Esq. E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, ESQ-
~ ERBERT BARKER- DAME LOUISA INNES LUMSDEN. ‘ HENRY W . NEVINSON, ESQ-

MISS MARJORIE « S , .
ALD M. COVWA£O§E§’ 1 R' 0c. Lit" LL-D- (hdlnburgh)o BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
(Ex- Pres , Nat Un Tchrs..) LADY EMILY LUTYENS. - EDEN PHlLLPOTTS, Esq.

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD. Esq. PERCY A. SCHOLES. Esq.
HP GoooH, D. Lit. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic CL). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.

WHAT THE L GE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is 1nrqu1tous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”' .. .

IT CONDEMNS fox deer, haregw and otter-huntlng, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned”) .

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds. without the cruelty.11.,,( See {gleaﬂet “ Drag- -h-untzng. ”) ; p
. IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding;’oE7:th11dren, and demands its cessation (See
leaﬂet “ Blooded. ”) - .

 

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
to the Secretary We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Grolup,1 etc. if out-of—pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
ava1 a e. .

JOIN THE LEAGUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kmd and deszre to jozn the
League for the Prohibztzon of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewz'th* ............................................ ..

State
- whether
Mr., Mrs., ................... . ................
or Miss. .............................................................. . .....

'5/- per annum includes Official Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members 1:5.
Post this form, with rem1ttance, to Secretary, L. P. C. S. . IOI, Chanda: House, Westminster, S. W. I.

....I..O.....OOI..OOOOOOO ....... O OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO O. ..... OOOOOOOCOIOO ....... O. ..... ODOCOOCOOOOOOOOOI.....

 

FORM OF BEQUEST.
To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested: ~—
I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR r111: PROHIBITION or CRUEL Sponrs, Iondon, the sum
of... .......... .. .. ..... free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be pazd to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last—mentioned Soczety.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

BRIGHTON—Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure , BUDLEIGH SALTERTON, the Coastal Gem of South Devon. ’
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and c water, gas Superior Board Residence. Bedrooms with h. and c.
ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, inclu- running water, varied and attractive fOOd Adequate
sive terms. _Tariﬂ’: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham 16 and vegetarian meals if desired. __Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale
17, Norfolk Terrace Wormald, “J’Mountway

BEAUTIFUL BUTTERMERE._—Victoria Golf Hotel Season
- . ° . WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880. —Sewell 51 Lan—
terms £4/ 4/ - Swiss balconies 10/6d. extra. (Quiet ’
periods 75 per cent.) caster Gate, London .

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of ltd. per word per insertion or 2/6d. per line for twelve
insertions and they should be received at the ofﬁce by the 15th of the month for the following month’s issue.

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION 0F CBUEL SPORTS, at 101. Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD.. Bond Gate, Nuneaton.

 

 




