 

WHAT HAPPENED To KITTY GRAY.

When Mrs. Tyler and her family went to the beach for the summer the very ﬁrst thing
that Betty Tyler begged for was a kitten to play with.

Mrs. Tyler was not fond of kittens, but she was fond of her little Betty and when a play-
mate came running over to the cottage one day bringing a pretty, blue eyed kitten as a
present to Betty, the kitten was allowed to stay, and it became Betty’s almost constant
companion.

Betty was not a very strong little girl. She could not romp and race all day as most of

a her friends were able to do, so she

I 'i i I ' found the pretty kitty a great deal

of company. Often she laughed at

Kitty Gray’s frolics when she

might have been crying with

loneliness had she not had the
kitten to amuse her.

The summer passed away rap-
idly, as summers have a way of
doing, and as the cool days and
nights came on Mrs. Tyler said
they must get ready to go back to
their city home. Betty gathered
together all her books and play-
things, and Hannah, the maid,
packed them in a little trunk.

“ W'hat can we carry Kitty Gray
in?” Betty asked her mother.
“She has grown so large we shall
need a good-sized basket for her.”
Her mother answered, “ Don’t
bother me now about Kitty ; I’m
busy.”

The day came for the journey
home. It would not take them
long to get there. First they had to hire a station wagon to go to the train, and then after
about an hour’s ride on the train, which Betty and her older brother, Robert, always enjoyed,
they would reach the city and soon be in their warm, cozy city home.

The train was an early one and the family were all hurrying to get ready. Mr. Tyler
kept calling to his wife and telling her she would lose the train, and the wagon was waiting
outside.

“Oh, mother,” cried Betty, “ you or Hannah must ﬁnd me a basket for Kitty. I can’t
leave her behind.”

“ You mustn’t bother me now,” said Mrs. Tyler. “ I have no time to look for a basket,
and Hannah is getting baby ready.”

Betty then called to Robert, but Robert had started on ahead leading his dog, Hero.
The dog was pulling hard at his leash and Robert had to run to keep up with him.

“Come, come,” called Mr. Tyler, “you will lose the train.”

“ Hurry up, Betty,” said Mrs. Tyler. “ We can’t stop for your Kitty now. She will be
all right for a few days. She can get under the house and she can ﬁnd enough to eat.”

“ But, mamma, I want my Kitty. It is cruel to leave her here alone. See, she’s crying
after me now,” said Betty, almost crying herself.

“ You must come Betty. I’ll send Robert down after her in a few days.”

So the family drove away and poor, deserted Kitty Gray ran a little way after the wagon,

 

 




 

crying piteously, then went back to the empty house and tried to jump up on the kitchen
Window, but the shutters were closed and she could not ﬁnd any resting place there for her
little feet. She went to the back door and cried, and when no one came to let her in she
went to the front door and cried there, and so she went around and around the house all
day, crying and begging to be let in, but there was no one to hear her.

At night a cold rain came on and the lonesome, hungry kitty, who alwaysbefore had had
a snug bed in the back kitchen, crawled under the house and trembled with cold and fright,
now and then creeping out to one of the doors again and pleading for some one to open it
and let her in. “ Surely, surely,” she seemed to say, “ there must be some one here. Why
don’t they let me in and give me my supper?”

Mrs. Tyler slept comfortably all night and never thought of Kitty Gray, but Betty, good-
hearted little Betty, heard the rain beating against the windows and cried as she thought of
her little companion alone on the desolate beach.

The days went by and Mrs. Tyler did not send for Kitty Gray. Betty asked her often
about it and she always promised to send as soon as Robert had a whole holiday from school.

Hero seemed to miss Kitty Gray for they had been good friends, and when Robert gave
him his supper of corn cake or brown bread or dog bread, he looked as if he thought his
little friend who used to have her dish of food next to his ought to be there, too.

Betty could not forget her dear Kitty Gray. When she saw Hero stretch himself out
before the open ﬁre after a good supper, she wondered where Kitty Gray got her supper,
and at night when the wind blew hard she sometimes couldnot fall asleep for quite a long
time thinking of the cold, dark, wind-swept beach, the lonely cottages there, and a little cat
crying about an empty house.

One night she heard her father say when he came in the house, “ It has begun to snow.”
She went quietly into the kitchen to Hannah, for Hannah had loved Kitty Gray and she and
Betty often talked about her together.

“What is the matter with Betty?” Mr. Tyler asked his wife as Betty left the room.
“ She has not seemed like herself since we came home. She looks too pale and sober for a
little girl. Haven’t you noticed it?”

“I am so busy With baby I hadn’t thought about it, but now you speak of it she has
seemed very quiet and she cries easily,” answered Mrs. Tyler.

“She cries sometimes nights,” said Robert who was rigging a little boat. “Stormy
nights I have heard her sob. and I know what it is about, because I heard her say last night,
‘Oh, my poor, poor Kitty.’ ” p

, “Haven’t you sent for that cat yet?” asked Mr. Tyler, “I thought you would attend
to it, or I would have sent there myself. Why, the poor thing is probably dead by this
time—~and Betty is grieving herself sick. I’m ashamed to think our little girl has got a
kinder heart than you or I.” ~

Mrs. Tyler looked ashamed, too, and her face turned quite red. _“ I keep forgetting to
send. I have meant to, but there hasn’t been any good chance.”

“I will go tomorrow myself,” said Mr. Tyler. “ If she is alive now she can’t live long
after the snow.” ‘

“ I will go with you,” said Mrs. Tyler. “ I want a few things that I left there. That
little boarding house near the station is kept open all winter, you know, and the cats that
are left on the beach go there, some one told me. You’ll ﬁnd Kitty Gray is all right.”

“ How many cats do you suppose the man who lives there wants to take care of? How
would you like to have all the neighbors move away and leave their cats for us to take care
of all winter or summer?” said'Mr. Tyler. '

Before his wife could answer Betty came through the door.

“Coasting tomorrow,” said her brother.

Betty did not look at him. “ I think I’ll go to bed,” she said, and she looked very un-
happy.

“ Betty,” said her father, “your mother and I are going to the cottage tomorrow and
we shall bring back Kitty Gray, unless she is in some safe home,” he added, as he feared
poor Kitty Gray was dead.




Betty’s face lighted up. “Oh, papa, I am so glad, so very glad. Now I won’t be worry-
ing all night, for tomorrow night I shall have her with me. Dear little Kitty, I have missed
her all the time, and been so worried about her.”

Mrs. Tyler listened and felt sorry and ashamed but she said nothing.

It was about noon when Mr. and
Mrs. Tyler left the train and went
to the boarding house near the
station. As soon as they entered
the house Mrs. Tyler said, “We
came after our cat. I meant to
come or send before, but have been
very busy. Has she been here
with you?”

“ No she hasn’t been here,” an-
swered Mr. Graves rather crossly.
“A lot of families keep cats and
kittens for their amusement all
summer, then go off and leave
them to starve and freeze here in
winter. I can’t take care of them
all.” _

Mrs. Tyler began to fear that
after all Kitty Gray had not been as well off as she expected.

“ Do you remember seeing a small gray and white cat around on the beach. ? ” she asked.

“I saw one early this morning in the snow. It was starved or frozen,——both, I guess,
for t’ was dead.”

Tears came in Mrs. Tyler’s eyes. “Oh, I hope it wasn’t ours; I shall never forgive
myself. Please harness your horse and drive us to our cottage as quick as you can.”

The snow was not deep, excepting in places where it had drifted. There was a thin,
white carpet all over the beach, sparkling in the sun.

As they drove along the beach road they passed a lonely cottage up on a bank against
the woods. There they saw a brave little cat struggling against the snow that had drifted
against the cottage. The cat turned her head and gave the carriage a questioning look, then
seeing no familiar face went on through the drifts to cry once more for help at the door of
her deserted home—«and cry again in vain.

“I’ve been trying to catch that cat ever sincethe family left her there, but she’s got so
frightened, being lonesome and hungry, I can’t get near her. She’s got pretty weak, though,
by this time. I’ll try for her again,” said Mr. Graves.

Mrs. Tyler looked away. She did not want to see the forlorn little ﬁgure struggling
through the snow to the empty house beyond, hoping, always hoping, to ﬁnd the door open
and food and warmth within. Her heart sank within her as she thought of her own closed
doors and Kitty Gray without. _

They stopped at the cottage and got out. No tracks of any little feet were to be seen.

“ Oh, dear, I’m afraid she is dead. What shall I do? How can we go home and tell Betty ! ”

They went to the front door and unlocked it. As they opened the door Mr. Tyler said,
“ Hark, I thought I heard a little kitten mewing.” They listened and then they both heard
somewhere the weak, pitiful cry of a young kitten. They stooped down and looked under
the porch and called, “ Kitty, Kitty.”

Then a very thin cat came slowly crawling out to their feet and looked up into their
faces. She opened her mouth, but was so weak that no sound came from it.

“ Oh, John! ” Mrs. Tyler said. “ This poor, wretched cat must be Kitty Gray and she is
starved to death.” Then she burst into tears. “Oh, do something for her quick,” she
cried to her husband.“ If she dies I shall never forget her pitiful face.”

Mr. Graves had got out of the wagon and was stooping down looking under the porch.
“ There’ re some little kittens under there. One of’ em’ 5 alive, anyway, but I shouldn’t won

W“: .

 

 

 




 

der if the rest were dead. It beats all how you people can go back and sleep comfortably in
your beds when you’ve left these poor things behind you suffering and dying by inches. It
would be a mercy if you’d put them to death in some easy way before you go.”

He put his long arm under the porch and dragged out ﬁve little kittens. Two of them were
dead. The other three were just alive. The poor little mother had tried to give them a soft bed
on newspapers that some, passerby had probably put there for the deserted cat, and to keep
them warm with her poor, thin little body, but another day would have ended all their lives.

Mrs. Tyler took up the little mother and held her
under her coat.

“ Let us go right back to Mr. Graves’ house and he
will give us some warm milk. You carry the kittens
John. No, I wont stop to get anything. Do hurry,
Mr. Graves.”

When they got to the house Mr. Graves heated a
little milk and they fed Kitty Gray with a teaspoon
at ﬁrst until she could lap a little herself. Then
they fed the three little kittens. They stayed until
afternoon and fed the mother and her babies a little
at a time until Kitty Gray could stand up and purr
her thanks.

Poor Kitty Gray. She had struggled hard to keep
herself and little ones alive. She had stayed by her
old home, always hoping a door or a window would open and dear Betty’s voice would be
heard calling her in, but she had given up all hope when the snow storm came and she saw
her little ones dying of cold and hunger.

DESERTED.

It was six o’clock and dark when Betty, who had been watching all the afternoon, heard
her father and mother at the door. Twenty times before she had thought she heard them,
and more than twenty times she had said to Hannah, “Oh, Hannah ——you do think they’ll
ﬁnd my Kitty Gray, don’t you? ” and Hannah had answered sadly:

“I hope so, but you can’t be sure. It is four long weeks since we left.”

This time the door really opened and Betty ﬂew with a cry of delight to seize upon a
basket her father was carrying very carefully.

“ Wait, Betty—wait dear. Be careful. Kitty Gray has been very sick and you must not
frighten her. She has some little baby kittens for you, but you mustn’t touch them tonight.”

He lifted the warm covering. Kitty Gray looked up and mewed faintly as Betty bent '
over her. She knew her little mistress and began to purr, but Betty’s tears fell fast on the
little heads in the basket and she could not speak.

They made Kitty Gray a bed in the kitchen and all the evening Betty and Hannah
watched over the little family. It seemed as if the poor little mother hardly stopped sing-
ing once until they left her, and then they all fell into a peaceful sleep.

In the morning Kitty Gray was much stronger and her kittens were more lively, but it
was a long time before she was sleek and plump again, though she had the best of care.

“John,” said Mrs. Tyler to her husband, “I have learned a lesson that I shall never
forget. I did not realize how much the deserted cats suffer, or how cruel it is to go away
and leave them. Robert and I are going to the beach next Saturday to see if we can help
Mr. Graves get that poor cat we saw—I can’t forget her—or ﬁnd any more deserted cats. I
shall tell everybody just how our poor Kitty suffered and how near she came to dying of
hunger and cold, and that may keep others that are thoughtless as I was, from leaving their
poor cats behind them when they move from one place to another.”

ANNA HARRIS SMITH.

This leaflet can be had at 5 cts. for twelve copies, or 30 cts. a hundred, postage paid.
Printed by the Animal Rescue League, 5| Carver Street, Boston.
mxt?isr‘f"—H7’“”MW

 




