Bra-printed from THETECHO, May 27th, 7899.

the Church and Vivisection.

[To the Editor of THE ECHOJ

Sin—Some days ago at a meeting held against cruelty to

animals, a distinguished-looking clergyman in the audience
rose, and strongly denounced the practice of vivisection, asking
at the same time most earnestly if some of the speakers would
tell the clergy what they could do in the matter. I shall
therefore feel grateful if you will kindly allow me to appeal
through your columns to clergy of all denominations to take
this question into their most serious consideration, as it seems
to me to be a matter of vital importance with regard to the
public welfare, and one cannot help feeling that much time and
attention are often devoted by our spiritual teachers to
subjects of far less moment than this.
, We do indeed thankfully acknowledge the fact that some of
the clergy have already fearlessly spoken out against this
barbarous practice, but they are, alas! still in the minority,
and it has long been a matter of sorrowful wonder to many
earnest people that men who hold the position of spiritual
guides to the community at large can tolerate the existence Of
such a terrible abuse without raising their voices against it.

How can they reconcile the base materialism of the creed of
vivisection with the pure self-sacrifice of the Gospel of Christ P
Do they in sober earnest believe that the Almighty, the very
essence of whose Being is inﬁnite Love and Justice, can have
so arranged His plan of creation that the sufferings of mankind
are only to be alleviated at the cost of the unspeakable agonies
of the lower animals? Surely no ! Then why do they not at
once contradict such a libel on the All-merciful Father of the
Universe? How can they with any consistency of religious
feeling discourse to their congregations on the Love of God
and the Sacriﬁce of Christ, and yet be aware that poor,
innocent, dumb brutes are undergoing the utmost misery and
torment conceivable without making any effort to amend such a
wretched state of things ? Do they really imagine that all the
Love of the Eternal Father is reserved fOr human beings, and that
there is no room in His great loving heart for the woes of the
poor dumb creatures, upon whom the shadow of suffering has
fallen, by reason of the sin and disobedience of the higher
being, man P Then must they indeed possess a very hazy
conception of the Love of God, about which they talk so
eloquently, and they have doubtless forgotten the tender

 




 

words spoken by our Master, Christ, nearly 2,000 years ago:
“Are not ﬁve sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of
them is forgotten before God? ” In the name of mercy and
pity, what does their silence mean P Is it the result of
ignorance, indifference, or cowardice, or of all three combined P

It may be that some of the clergy fear to offend the pre-
judices of certain influential members of their congregations
by protesting against scientiﬁc cruelty, but for the honour of
their calling and their manhood alike we would fain hope that
such unfaithful shepherds are in the large minority. Is it not
the case with most of them, as with so many of the laity, that
they are ignorant of the real meaning of vivisection, utterly
misled by the miserable jargon of science falsely so-called ?

This science is no God divine,
At whose high altar we must bow—

A fetish rather at whose shrine
Dark bloody rites are offered now.

True science is both just and kind,
No joy to her to take the knife;

Her highest pleasure she doth ﬁnd
In sheltering, not destroying, life

Like many other people, the clergy for the most part seem
to live in a kind of fool’s paradise with regard to this matter,
their minds having been lulled to sleep by the anaesthetic
delusion, which is far more often designed to effect this object
than to alleviate in any sensible degree the sufferings of the
poor animals. And so we lose the priceless aid which they
would be able to afford us in our opposition to this great evil.
I do not believe that we shall ever make real headway in this
work of mercy, until we are content to raise it on to the
religious platform. We may talk until doomsday of the pros
and cons of medical opinion on the question; in this respect
there will always be diversity of thought and feeling ; we may
reason powerfully against vivisection on moral and humane
grounds, but pure humanitarianism alone can never avail
effectually to stem the tide of misery and wrong.

We therefore appeal to the ministers of Christ to come
forward with courage, and take their proper, place in this
conflict against the forces of evil; denouncing this'vile selﬁsh-
ness as an offence against our blessed Redeemer Himself.
Let them take the trouble to make themselves acquainted
with the truth about vivisection ; , let them be brave enough
to draw aside the veil which conceals the horrors of the
loathsome icruelties so often perpetrated under the high-
sounding title of scientiﬁc research; let them realise to the
full the importance of this matter as affecting not only the
moral, but in many cases the physical welfare of mankind,
and, above all, let them consider what a baleful effect this cult
of selﬁsh tyranny, must of necessity have on thespiritual
development of the human race, and then aSsuredly we shall
not appeal to them in‘vain. "




Rising to a sense of their solemn responsibility, surely they
will then take their ﬁtting place as leaders in this great warfare,
defending the cause of the weak and helpless against the
relentless oppression of the strong and unmerciful, having but
one answer to all the arguments of expediency advanced by
the supporters of this base and cowardly system. “ How can
we do this great wickedness and sin against God? Hath
Christ died? Shall this accursed cruelty live P ” Ah I if only
all the ministers of the Gospel who occupy the pulpits of our
churches and chapels would unite with one voice to condemn
the practice of experimenting upon living animals in the
strength of the Divine command, “ Thou shalt not,” its days
would soon be numbered :—

God’s mercy is o’er all His works,
’Tis part of His most loving plan,

He hates the cruelty that lurks
Behind the plea of good to man.

But woe to the nation, however prosperous it may appear
to be, the ears of whose priests are deaf to the cry of the
helpless for mercy, who pass over the iniquity of the strong
and powerful, shut their eyes to the dangers of the evil around
them, and prophesy “ Peace, peace, when there is no peace ” I

Yours, etc., MARION LEE.
61, Queensborough Terrace, W., May 25th.

 

PUBLISHED BY

the Bonon Hnti=vivisection Society.

(Afﬁliated with the NATIONAL ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY).

]. Sclzoles, Printer, Oxfowl Street, Bolton.

 

 




 




