Reprinted from " The Animals’ Friend”

THE BALANCE OF NATURE

By Ewen K. Patterson

WHENEVER man contrives to upset that delicate adjustment

known as the “ balance of Nature ” he has to suffer for it.
This has been proved time and time again in every civilized country,
and in Australia it is being proved at the present time- Lately a
number of very destructive plagues have developed in Australia, and

these are a direct result of man’s wanton slaughter of animals and
birds.

In Eastern Australia a grasshopper plague, the worst of the kind
Australia has ever known—has been causing millions of dollars’
worth of damagemonthly to crops and pastures. This plague, efforts
to control which have already cost a small fortune, has simply
' developed as a result of the destruction by man of the insects’
natural bird enemies, chiefly the ibis and the bustard. This was
realized when a naturalist found upwards of l0,000 infant grass-
hoppers in the crop of one ibis at the end of a day’s foraging. As a
result of this discovery, these birds are now protected by law,'and
it is a criminal offence for any person to shoot them. But it will take
many years for the birds to increase suﬁiciently in numbers to keep
the grasshoppers in check.

ln Queensland a saw-fly pest has also developed and is respon-
sible for the destruction of thousands of head of cattle every year.
This pest has only been brought aboutby the ruthless slaughter of

posSums for their furry skins. These marsupials have been almost f

exterminated by hunters. The animals formerly kept the saw-fly
under control, by feeding on the insects’ eggs, which are laid in the
leaves of gum-trees. At any rate, all scientiﬁc attempts to control
this pest have proVed Unsuccessful, and now, to adjust the “ balance
of Nature,” the Government is setting apart and stocking possum
sanctuaries in the pest-ridden areas'once populous with the mar-

 

Copy, ,,,,, l‘

M-«f‘w'li‘rw-q' '

 




, supials butnow trapped out. But in this case also, it will be many
years before the marsupials are plentiful enough to be able to keep
”the saw- -fly in check.

Withinrecent years a serious rat plague has also developed in
the tropical regions of Northern Queensland. This plague which is
the worst of the kind Australia has ever known, has also resulted,
in an outbreak of a dreaded disease which affects humans; this is
known as Weil’s disease, and several deaths have already occurred
from it. This plague is simply another result of man’s thoughtless
interference with the‘ ‘balance of Nature,” for it has arisen simply:
from man’s wholesale killing of carpet snakes and pythons (which
are the rat’s natural enemies) for their skins to satisfy the demands.
of fashion. Until recently the skins of these snakes, which are
entirely harmless reptiles, were in great demand, being used in the
manufacture of ladies’ shoes, handbags, etc. Now, however, this"
demand has ceased; the snakes are no longer hunted for their skins:
But in many areas the reptiles have been well—nigh exterm’inated‘,
and it will be a longtime before they ‘can again assist man by keeping”
the rats under cOntrol. Meanwhile, large sUms of-money are “being
spent in a “ war ” against the rats. Flame- throwers, such as were
used in the Great War of I9I4- l9l8, have even been brought into
operation for destroying the rats’ hiding places. ~ ,,_, “

These plagues have taught Australia a lesson, and before any
further killing of native birds and animals is permitted, investiga-_,‘
tions will be made as to whether any pests are likely to develop as
the result of the killing.,.

In Australia it has been deﬁnitely proved that plagues of this
nature cannot successfully be controlled by artiﬁcial methods. The
only satisfactory results are obtained by biological control—eby
adjusting the “ balance of Nature ”; that-is, by bringing into the.-
“war ” the pests’ natural enemies. ‘ I

(By ICbUrtesy‘ of “Our D’Umb Animals”).

 

Printed by Watford’ Printers Limited, 58 Vicarage Road, Watford, Herts.

 




