EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS-

RETURN to an address of the Honourable the House of Commons
dated 27th October 1953 for

“ RETURN of Experiments performed under the Cruelty to
Animals Act, 1876, during 1952, (in continuation of
Parliamentary Paper No. 313 'of Session 1951—52).”

Home Ofﬁce 4
27th OCtOber, 1953 } DAVID MAXWELL FYFE

(Sir David Maxwell Fyfe)

Ordered by The House of Commons to be printed
28th October 1953

LONDON
HER MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE

FOURPENCE NET

 




 

 

 

RETURN OF EXPERIMENTS 0N LIVING ANIMALS

 

RETURN RELATING TO EXPERIMENTS
ON LIVING ANIMALS

EXPLANATORY NOTE

1. THE Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, imposes restrictions which apply to
any experiment calculated to inﬂict pain upon a living vertebrate animal.

2. No experiment may be carried out under the Act except with a view
either to the advancement by new discovery of physiological knowledge or
of knowledge which will be useful for saving or prolonging life or alleviating
suffering, or with a view to the acquisition of such knowledge by persons
attending lectures in medical schools, hOSpitals, colleges or elsewhere. In
this connexion the word “ physiological” is interpreted as having its original
connotation of the whole ﬁeld of Animal Biology. Experiments in illustration
of lectures are allowed only on a certiﬁcate being given (as described below)
that the proposed experiments are necessary for the due instruction of the
persons attending the lectures.

3. Any person who performs an experiment must hold a licence from the
Secretary of State, who may attach to the licence any conditions that he
may think expedient for the purpose of better carrying into effect the objects
of the Act, but which are not inconsistent with its provisions. A standard
condition requires that the experiments must be performed at a registered
place approved by the Secretary of State. This condition is imposed in all
cases, except that certain licensees are permitted to perform experiments
at other places if the circumstances render it impossible to perform the
experiments at a registered place, e.g.. in the investigation of outbreaks of
disease occurring in remote districts.

4. Licences are granted by the Secretary of State on the recommendation
of (a) the President of one of {the learned Societies named in Section II of
the Act. and (b) a Professor occupying one of the Chairs also named in this
Section of the Act.

5. In experiments performed under licence alone, the animal must, during
the whole of the experiment, be under the inﬂuence of some anaesthetic of
sufficient power «to prevent it feeling pain from‘the experimental procedure :
and if pain is likely to continue after the effect of the anaesthetic has ceased.
or if any serious injury has been inﬂicted, the animal must be killed before
it recovers from the inﬂuence of the anaesthetic.

6. Where these restrictions would necessarily frustrate the object of the
experiment, the Act provides that they may be-relaxed, at the discretion of
the Secretary of State, by virtue of one or more Certiﬁcates to that effect
given by two of the signatories mentioned above (paragraph 4). These
Certiﬁcates are not valid until they have been allowed by the Secretary of
State. who may alternatively disallow or suspend them. or attach to them
any conditions he may think necessary (see paragraphs 9. 11 and 12).

' 57. No experiment of any kind may be carried out on a horse. ass or mule
(categorised for brevity as “the equidae ”). unless the Licensee holds at least
Certiﬁcate F. and possibly another Certiﬁcate as well (see below).

8. Certiﬁcate A, when allowed by the Secretary of State. provides for
experiments being performed without anaesthesia on animals other than dogs.
cats and equidae. but with special “limitation” and “pain” restrictions

 




RETURN OF EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS

 

(see paragraphs 9 and 13 below). For such experiments on dogs or cats,
Certiﬁcate A must be supplemented with Certiﬁcate E, in identical terms,
with a statement of the reason why it is considered necessary to use dogs
or cats ; for experiments on equidae. the supplementary Certiﬁcate is F.

9. The Secretary of State attaches to every Certiﬁcate A (whether or not
accompanied by Certiﬁcate E or Certiﬁcate F) a condition which requires
that. no operative procedure more severe than simple inoculation or super-
ﬁcial venesection shall be performed in any experiment under that Certiﬁcate.
In addition he attaches the “ Pain” condition (see paragraph 13 below).

l0. Certiﬁcate B, when allowed by the Secretary of State. dispenses with
the requirement (see paragraph 5 above) to kill the animal before the
etl‘ect ot the anaesthesia has ceased, i.e. in the post operative and observation
period. the anin’ial of course remaining completely anaesthetised during the
actual surgical procedure itself (see paragraph 11 below). For such experi-
ments on dogs or cats. Certiﬁcate EE is also required in identical terms.
with a statement of the reason why it is considered necessary to use dogs
or cats ; for such experiments on equidae, Certiﬁcate F is required in addition
to Certiﬁcate B.

:11. The Secretary of State attaches to every Certiﬁcate B (whether or
not accompanied by Certiﬁcate EE or Certiﬁcate F) conditions requiring
anaesthesia throughout the operative part of the experiment, and adequate
precautions at all times against accidental infection. He also attaches the
“ Pain” condition.

12. Certiﬁcate C authorises the Licensee to perform experiments, under
anaesthesia throughout. in illustration of lectures given to students or
members of learned Societies in Medical Schools, hospitals, colleges or
elsewhere: such experiments are limited to those necessary for the due
instruction of the persons to whom such lectures are given. with a View to
their acquiring physiological knowledge. or knowledge which will be useful
to them for saving or prolonging life or alleviating suffering.

The Home Secretary attaches to every Certiﬁcate C a condition requiring
the killing of the animal before recovery from the anaesthetic.

13. The following condition as to pain is attached by the Secretary of
State in respect of every experiment made under Certiﬁcates A, A and E,
A and F. B. B and EE. or B and F:—~

If any animal at any time during any of the said experiments under
the said Certiﬁcate. 18 found to be suffering pain which is either severe
or is likely to endure, and if the main result of the experiment has been
attained. the animal shall forthwith be painlessly killed.

If an animal at any time during any of the said experiments is found
to be suffering severe pain which is likely to endure. such animal shall
forthwith be painlessly killed.

If an animal appears to an Inspector to be suﬁ'ering considerable pain,
and if such Inspector directs such animal to be destroyed, it shall forthwith
be painlessly killed.”

14. Where the Secretary of State considers that a Licensee is not sufﬁciently
well qualiﬁed or experienced to be safely entrusted with the single-handed
conduct of his proposed experiments. he imposes a condition requiring that
some or all of the experiments shall be carried out under the supervision,
direct and immediate. or general, as the circumstances may demand, of some

 




4 _ RETURN OF EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS

speciﬁed person approved by him. A similar precaution is taken in respect
of applicants from countries outside the United Kingdom. no matter what
their professional status or experience may be.

15. Licensees are required to keep a written record of their experiments
and to send to the Secretary of State within fourteen days of the close of
each year a return of the number and nature of the experiments performed
during the year and also to submit from time to time such other reports-
as may be required.

16. A veterinary surgeon has been added to the Advisory Committee.
appointed by the Secretary of State on a recommendation of the Royal
Commission 1905—12, to assist him with advice in the administration of the
Act. The membership of the Committee at present is as follows:—

The Right Honourable Sir Donald Bradley Somervell, O.B.E., Lord
Justice of Appeal. (Chairman)

Sir Henry Hallet Dale, O.M., C.B.E.. F.R.S.

Professor Thomas Renton Elliott, C.B.E., D.S.O.. F.R.S.

Professor Sir Arthur Ellis. O.B.E., M.D.. F.R.C.P. .

Geoffrey Langdon Keynes. Esq.. M.D., F.R.C.S.. L.R.C.P.

Charles Edward Newman, Esq., M.D., B.Ch.. F.R.C.P.

Sir Henry Sessions Souttar, C.B.E.. M.D., F.R.C.S.

Sir John Sebastian Bach Stopford, M.B.E.. M.D.‘. F.R.S., F.R.C.P.

Sir James Walton, K.C.V.'O.. M.S.. F.R.C.S.

Sir Robert Arthur Young, C.B.E.. M.D.. B,.Sc.. F.R.C.P.

Sir Frank Ware, C.I.E., F.R.C.V.S.

SUMMARY OF EXPERIMENTS PERFORMED IN 1952

17. Throughout the year. or for some part of it. 4.491 persons held licences.
Returns of experiments havebeen furnished by. or in a few cases, on behalf
of, each licensee: and from these it appears that 1.335 licensees performed
no experiments.

18. The returns show a total of 2.117.912 experiments during 1952.

19. Experiments performed under anaesthesia throughout, totalled 31.948.
They include:——

Under Licence alone 29.809
Under Licence and Certificate F 1
Under Certiﬁcate C 2,138

20. In 249,636 experiments (Certiﬁcate B). operative procedures were
carried out under anaesthetics from the inﬂuence of which the animals on
conclusion of such procedures. were allowed to recover. Since no cutting
operation more severe than superﬁcial venesection is allowed to be performed
without the use of anaesthetics. the operations performed in these experiments
included many of a minor surgical character.

Classiﬁcation of these is as follows:—— ,
Under Certiﬁcate B 248,265
Under Certiﬁcates B and EE 1359
Under Certiﬁcates B and F 12

 




RETURN OF EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS

 

21. The number of experiments (Certiﬁcate A) performed without
anaesthetics was 1,836,328 which is approximately 866 per cent. of all
those made during this year. These experiments were mostly inoculations.
modiﬁcations of the animal’s diet or environment. or the administration of
a drug or toxin, followed in each case by observation of the results which
may follow. In many such cases the results are negative and the animal suffers
no harmful effects at all. It remains under experiment from the time of
the initial procedure until it recovers from the effects. if any, or dies. or is
killed. - ‘

These experiments comprised :—~

Under Certiﬁcate A 1.829.809
Under Certiﬁcates A and E 6,393
Under Certiﬁcates A and F .. 126

22. Cats, dogs, horses, asses or mules were used in 14.989 experiments.
This is slightly over one half of one per cent. of all experiments performed
in 1952, and 7.099 of the 14,989 experiments were performed under
anaesthesia throughout the whole period. Details are as follows:—

C ats Dogs E quidae
Under Licence alone 5.020 1,064
Under Licence and Certiﬁcate F -~~ —-
Under Licence and Certiﬁcate C 958 56 -—-
Under Licence and Certiﬁcates B and BB 796 563
Under Licence and Certiﬁcates B and F ~—— ~—
Under Licence and Certiﬁcates A and E 670 5.723 ——
Under Licence and Certiﬁcates A and F —— —,—— 126

23. In the course of cancer investigations, the returns show that 197
Licensees carried out 95.991 experiments. Of these experiments 32.052 were _
performed under anaesthesia and 63.939 without anaesthesia. The great
majority of these experiments were performed upon mice and those performed
without anaesthesia involved mostly external applications. injections or
“feeding” experiments designed to test for any possible cancer producing
factors in foods or other substances in common domestic or commercial use.

24. For the purposes of public health or directly for the diagnosis of
disease, 202,453 experiments were made. With relatively few exceptions
these were proceedings involving merely simple inoculations.

- 25. On behalf of Government Departments and bodies such as the Medical

Research Council and the Agricultural Research Council, some 397,268
experiments (including a considerable proportion of the experiments for
diagnostic purposes already mentioned) were carried out.

1

12

26. Over a million experiments were performed in the course of preparing
and testing substances intended for use in the treatment of disease in man
or in animals. these including 810.676 experiments for standardisation of
sera. vaccines, or drugs.

27. There were. over the period covered by this report. 482 places on the
Register at which experiments on animals might be performed. New
registrations numbered twenty-eight and removals from the Register. twelve.

28. In the course of the year 1.348 visits. mostly without previous notice,
were paid by the Inspectors to registered Laboratories, a considerable number
of experiments in progress being‘ witnessed. The inspections showed that
both stock and experimental animals were suitably accommodated as well as
cared for, and that Licensees in general were attentive to the requirements

 




RETURN OI" EXPERIMENTS ()N LIVING ANIMALS

 

of the Act and to the conditions attached to their licences by the Secretary
of State. In addition to places already on the Register, the Inspectors visited
thirty-seven premises proposed for Registration.

29. During the year, the following irregularities were brought to noticezn-

In the absence on leave of a licensee in charge of a Pathological
Laboratory. his senior technician, although not possessing a licence
himself. carried out a simple diagnostic inoculation upon a guinea pig.
He had not been warned not to do so by his principal and was under the
impression that he had cover for this under the terms of the former’s
licence. The matter was taken up with the licensee in question who
accepted full responsibility for not explaining to him that his own
powers under the Act could not be delegated. It appeared that there
had been a genuine misunderstanding on the part of the technician. and
it was considered that what blame there was. rested with the Pathologist
in charge of the Laboratory: no further action was taken in regard to
the technician, but the Pathologist received a letter of warning and
admonition from the Secretary of State.

Another case somewhat similar to the above was reported. but. in this
case the technician concerned was under the impression that because
certain speciﬁc injections were outside the scope of the Act, other
diagnostic tests involving simple subcutaneous injection. did not require
a licence. Upon investigation it was considered "that the Pathologist in
charge of the Laboratory was chiefly to blame in not exercising adequate
supervision.

A licensee holding Certiﬁcate A. but not Certiﬁcate B. administered
an anaesthetic to some rats and made a small skin wound in each,
the rodents having received a preliminary injection of certain material.
the object of the experiment. being to observe the effect of such injections
upon healing of the wounds. This licensee believed that she had power
to do this under the Act by v'rtue of a colleague’s Certificate B-—~a
complete misunderstanding of the rule of prohibition of “delegation
It was felt, however, that the misunderstanding was genuine and not
deliberate.

There were four other cases in which licensees. not in possession of
Certiﬁcates B administered anaesthetics for simple inoculations which
might have been done under their Certiﬁcates A without anaesthesia.
The irregularity was of a very technical character. and it was considered
sufﬁcient that they should apply for Certiﬁcate B to cover such cases.

A Pathologist who had requested transfer of availability of his licence
to other registered premises moved his animals under experiment to the
new premises without permission to do so. contravening condition I of
his licence. It was considered after ascertaining the facts. that this
infringement was not deliberate. but due to carelessness, and his
explanation was accepted by the Secretary of State.

A licensee. the number of whose experiments under his Certiﬁcate B
had been limited by himself in his own original application, exceeded
the number and himself pointed this out. in his annual return. It was
considered that the infringement was unintentional. but the need for
meticulous observance of the requirements of the Act was impressed

upon him. -
An applicant for a licence with Certiﬁcate A, ﬁlled in the necessary
forms and despatched them to the statutory signatories. Upon receipt

 




RETURN OF EXPERIMENTS ON.LIVING ANIMALS

 

of the documents from the signatories, these were not forwarded to the
Home Oﬂice as is required by the Act, the applicant proceeding to
carry out experiments Under the impression that he had completed all
the necessary formalities and had in fact been granted a licence with
Certiﬁcate A. The matter was taken up with the Professor in whose .
Department the applicant was working and who was himself one of
the signatories named on the licence and certiﬁcate application. It
appeared that the infringement was due to inadvertence, but as the
applicant did not wish to perform any further experiments, and no
further application was received from him, the original application
remained invalid.

A licensee whose' licence expired in February, 1952, but who was
posted abroad in 1950, resumed experiments upon his return in 1952,
although his original licence had in fact already been revoked in 1950.
Upon enquiry it was ascertained that the notice of revocation in 1950
had not reached him owing to a change of address. On his licence,
however, it was clearly stated that the expiry date was 29th February,
1952, whereas experiments had been carried out after this date without
any request for renewal having been received.

A licensee in possession of Certiﬁcate B allowing him to perform
certain major surgical procedures, although not in possession of
Certiﬁcate A for minor procedures, performed a series of simple
injections under the erroneous impression that his Certiﬁcate B covered
such. Had he applied for Certiﬁcate A—which he subsequently did—
he would have obtained it in the ﬁrst instance. The error was considered
due to a misunderstanding on his part, and was dealt with accordingly.

A surgeon holding Certiﬁcate B for certain speciﬁc surgical pro-
cedures, carried out under anaesthesia an alternative procedure not
speciﬁed on his Certiﬁcate believing that as the technique involved was
similar and of no greater severity, this alternative method of achieving
a result in the particular investigation for which the Certiﬁcate had
been obtained, was allowable under the latter. It was impressed upon
him that this was not the case, and that he had no authority under‘
his Certiﬁcate B for performance of any procedures not speciﬁcally
mentioned in this Certiﬁcate.

A somewhat similar case to that mentioned above was that of a
licensee who, while in possession of Certiﬁcate B authorising him to
carry out such inoculations and injections as required an anaesthetic,
injeoted certain material into a rodent but went beyond the terms of
his actual cover under this Certiﬁcate by also making a small punctured
wound of the skin while the animal was still under the anaesthetic, with
a view to observing the subsequent histological changes in the healing
process. The infringement of the Act in this manner, was a somewhat
technical one, but it was further complicated by the faCt that he had no
authority to use the particular registered premises where he actually
performed the experiment, and it was felt that he had shown carelessness
of a degree unusual in a licensee of his experience. The matter was
reported to the Director of the Research InstitUte to which he belonged
and the licensee received a letter of admonition and warning from the
Secretary of State.

P. L. C. CARRIER.

Chief I t ,
26th August, 1953. nspec 01'

(21584) Wt. 1022—360 K7 11/53 D.L.

 




THE ASSESSMENT
OF PAIN— PERCEPTION

AND

THE EFFECT OF ELECTRICAL
STIMULATION OF THE BRAIN
ON THE PERCEPTION OF PAIN

BY
PHYLLIS G, CROFT, Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S.

UFAW Research Fellow at
The Neuropsychiatric Research Centre, Whitchurch Hospital, Cardiﬁ

Reprinted from the
‘JOURNAL OF MENTAL SCIENCE’
Vol. XCVIII, No. 412, July 1952
by

(1wa

(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare,)
284 REGENTS PARK ROAD, FINCHLEY, LONDON, N3.

 

 

 




 

THE AIM AND METHOD OF UfAW

The aim of UFAW is to promote humane behaviour towards
wild and domestic animals in Britain and abroad so as to reduce
the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by man.

This aim will be pursued by

enlisting for that purpose the energies of members of univer—
sities and professional men and women ;

obtaining and disseminating relevant knowledge ;

helping teachers to provide humane education ;

cooperating with Government Departments, Parliament,
the Churches, the learned societies and other bodies in
action favourable to humane behaviour ;

pursuing any other charitable activities conducive to the end
in View and appropriate to the character of a universitv
orgamzation.

 

 

 

 




 

 

. ‘34“ A 4

' .

 

THE ASSESSMENT OF PAIN PERCEPTION.
By PHYLLIS G. CROFT, Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S.,

Research Fellow, Universities’ Federation for Animal Welfare.
From N europsychiatric Research Centre, Whitchurch Hospital, Cardiff.

THE assessment of pain perception is a subject of great importance from both
the practical and the theoretical aspect. The increasing use of curare—like drugs
as muscular relaxants and basal anaesthetics (Mushin, 1951), and in conjunction
with electro—convulsant therapy (E.C.T.), has made the orthodox tests for depth
of anaesthesia unreliable because they depend on the activity of voluntary muscle.
E.C.T. itself (Morgan, 1950) and industrial electrical accidents (Hume, 1935) have
given rise to unusual states of consciousness which cannot be fully understood
until more is known about the way in which electric shock affects the central nervous
system. On the theoretical side many explanations of the essential features of a
state of consciousness have been given, but none of them‘ accounts completely for
all the observed phenomena ; investigations designed to improve methods of assess—
ment should provide useful information which, when correlated with that from other
ﬁelds, may ultimately lead to a better understanding of the conscious state. The
object of the experiments described in this paper has been the development of tests
which will indicate the level of consciousness, and in particular the appreciation of

pain, when the voluntary muscles are paralysed.

EXPERIMENTAL METHODS.

IWaJem'alr—The material consisted of--
(i) Rabbits of both sexes of various breeds and ages, ranging in body
weight from 800 gm. to 2,000 gm.
(ii) Six normal male human subjects ; 5 mental hospital patients, male
and female, classiﬁed as depressive.
Apparatus.—Electro—cortigrams (E.C0.G.) were recorded on a 6—channel
Mitchell EEG. machine and on a Marconi 4—channel machine ; heart rates were
recorded by taking electro—cardiograms on one channel of the EEG. machine.
The electrodes for the animal E.C0.Gs. consisted of ﬁne stainless steel pins driven 1
through a cork support and the skull of the anaesthetized animal so that the tips )9
of the pins were in contact with the cortex. The penetration of the pin was ‘
checked in vivo by X—ray, and post—mortem by histological methods (Marshall, /
/%
/

\.\
~\\

 

1940). If the cork support was sutured to the skin over the skull, the electrodes
could be left in position for several days without apparent discomfort (Fig. 2).
These electrodes were used for E.C0.G. recordings and for stimulation ; they were
connected to the required leads by crocodile clips. ' Three standard positions were

used, the external landmarks being-—— _ /
(i) the level of the posterior canthus of the eyes ; /)

(ii) midway between (i) and the anterior border of the base of the ear ; . . ,‘
(iii) the level of the anterior border of the base of the ear. /

-Hypodermic needles were used as electrodes for recording the animal electro-
cardiograms ; they were placed subcutaneously, one over the heart and the other ,
over the lumbar vertebrae (or on any other accessible “ indifferent ” site). ’ f

The electrodes for the human E.E.Gs. were the usual Marconi scalp type, and ,
were placed on the occipital and parietal areas. Human electrocardiograms were ,1
recorded on the E.E.G. machine withscalp electrodes placed over the heart and /
on the left arm. ‘ ~ ’

The stimulator used for the rabbit experiments was modelled on that described
by Bernstein (1950) and was designed to provide a constant current and square
wave pulses. The pain stimulus for the rabbit was a pin—prick on the nose, and in )
the experiments with human subjects O'I ml. distilled water was injected intra— //

dermally on the forearm.

 

 




 

 

2 THE ASSESSMENT OF PAIN PERCEPTION,

 

 

 

L7
"‘7
215 a?
205 ‘3’
1” 3”
Q.

 

 

 

O
I».~‘La
-.\

P: l l I l l l 1 l l l l 1
_ 2i 5T8 T 12 ”Tm T 20 T TT26 30 34 38 4o 44
Conscious Deep anaesthesia After electrical stimulation

Time (minutes)

 

pain stimulus
FIG. I.~Arrangement of electrodes for rabbit recordings and stimulation.

RESULTS.
The results will be described under two main headings :

( I) Determination of sensitivity to pain by the cardiac pain reﬂex (c.p.r.).
(2) Assessment of level of consciousness by E.Co.G. and E.E.G.

Determination of Sensitivity to Pain by Cow/ditto Pain Reﬂex.

In order to assess the awareness of the animal under these conditions it was
necessary to use involuntary muscle, under cerebro—cortical control, the activity
of which could be easily recorded. Longley suggested that the cardiac muscle
fulﬁlled these conditions, and the electro-cardiogram was recorded on the EEG.
machine concurrently with the EEG. itself.

The normal heart-rate of the rabbit varies from 190—290 beats /minute, but in
any particular animal the resting rate only varies by 1—2 per cent. from the mean
value. When the conscious animal felt pain, in the form of a pin—prick on the
nose, the heart-rate increased by 20—30 per cent. ; typically the increase lasted
about I5 seconds, after which the rate quickly returned to the resting level, or
to a subnormal level for a few seconds. The response always occurred and its
magnitude was fairly constant in any one animal, varying little with the strength
of the stimulus. When the animal was deeply anaesthetized the response was
completely abolished, and in states of light anaesthesia it was reduced in magni—
tude, and the return to normal was slower (Fig. 2). The cardiac pain reﬂex behaved
similarly in human subjects tested in the conscious state and at various levels Of
ether anaesthesia. .

In the rabbit, immediately after an electrical convulsion, the c.p.r. was absent,
and the stage at which it could ﬁrst be elicited is shown in Table I. The reﬂex
invariably appeared before the paw retraction reﬂex, and was in fact present at a
time when the animal would normally be considered unconscious ; voluntarv move-
ments appeared some minutes later (Table I). In human subjects there was a
stage, just before consciousness was lost, when the c.p.r. was positive but no other
external indication of pain perception was given ; subsequent interrogation
revealed that the subject felt the stimulus, but “ had no energy to signal.”

Assessment of Level of Consciousness by E.C0.G. and E.E.G.

The normal conscious_E.Co.G. from the precentral granular area of the rabbit
cortex has a characteristic 5—8 eye/sec. rhythm, while that from other parts of

 

 




 

‘ﬂi-7m . 71m

 

 

BY PHYLLIS G. CROFT, PH.D. 3

TABLE I.——Rea;b;beai/ance of Reﬂexes after Electro-convulsant Stimulation (Rabbit).
' Cardiac pain reflex.

 

Conscious. A ftei/ electrical stimulation. Paw reﬂex.
k 0
N Per cent. Time when Per cent. Téme when
' 0' increase in ﬁrst seen increase in _ rst seerfi
heart rate. (minutes after heart rate (minutes .3 ter
stimulation). at this time. stimulatlon).
I I I 221‘ 7 6
2 26 3 4 6
3 40 2 6 4
4‘ IO 2% 5 7
5 TI 5 I 9
6 “— 3 4 5
7 25 4 13
8 0 5 2
9 I5 4 7
IO 12 5 7
I 2 ___ 4 I o

The c.p.r. was tested every minute in all experiments until a positive response occurred.
The paw reﬂex was not timed accurately in rabbits 7—12, but it was never present at the
time when the c.p.r. appeared.

 

 

electrode
‘ " . -— crocodile (:le
I ‘ thin cork
an ,_____.____suture
~‘ «\\\\‘ 5“!“ shaved skin
a“ g ,- ._._.. .-\ bone
/' 7/’ M cerebra. Corth
5;), white matter

FIG. 2.——Effect of pain stimulus on rabbit heart rate under different conditions.

the cortex is less regular, but always contains a high proportion of fast rhythms ;
slow frequencies, as in man, are indicative of decreased cortical activity, or of a
pathological condition. A number of E.Co.Gs. of rabbits in different stages of.
Nembutal and Pentothal anaesthesia were taken, and the changes in the record
agreed reasonably well with the observed state of the animal. '

In the human subject the oc—rhythm was recorded while the depth of ether
anaesthesia was gradually increased. The percentage of EEG. record showing
no oc-rhythm was calculated for each 20-second period, and a sharp rise in this
percentage occurred, as unconsciousness supervened, in every one of six subjects
tested (Fig. 3).

E.C0.G. recordings could be made I second after switching off the current used
for electric shock in the rabbit. At the end of the clonic phase of the convulsion,
when the rabbit was lying in a relaxed state, the E.Co.G. was completely ﬂat;
I—~3 minutes after stimulation slow 8-waves of varying voltage appeared. The
normal high-frequency E.Co.G. was not usually seen until at least 5 minutes after
the shock, and then only intermittently ; the frequency was often slightly lower than
normal at this stage (4—6 cyc. /sec.). In some animals no high frequencies appeared
until 8 minutes after stimulation, but in every experiment the normal 6—8 cyc. /sec.
rhythm was well established between 20 and 60 minutes after stimulation; the
record was then indistinguishable from the pre-ictal one of the same animal.

 




THE ASSESSMENT OF PAIN PERCEPTION,

 

I00-

0'
an:
ID

1'"
‘V’

~1\

l

/

 

I "T w
. T P1 P2

 

ethe adminis-
trari xbegun

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cardiac. pain reflex

Curve 1 ,
Temporary change clue to other inhalation

--'.---I-

  

Time (minttes)

 

curve 2. EEG .L-rhythm

T Pahn stimulus :21; P6 subiect fen: pain but gave no signal

1': P7 subject was unconscious and Pen: no pain

FIG. 3.———Effect of anaésthesia on cardiac pain reﬂex and E.E,G. in man.

'3 fWM/‘WW

I250 ﬂv.
b
C W
4

{W

W
1 sec.

Ebbi t

3 Normal record before stimlation

;['WWme

I second

ﬁgman

3 Normal record before stimulation

 

 

 

S- h 0‘

1C

FIG. LEA—Effect of electro-convulsant stimulation. on rabbit E.C0.G. and human EEG.

I minute after stimulatton
2 minutes after stimuiatlon
3 m|nutes after stimulation

ll minutes after Stimulation
l8 minutcs after stimuiation

U?
iv

V

 

6 minutes after- stimulation
8 minutes after stimulation
IO minutes after stimulation
lI-|7'minutes after stimul at'mn

I 50,0.V. 'm a“ records

 




 

 

 

BY PHYLLIS G. CROFT, PH.D. 5

Comparable changes occurred in human E.E.Gs. after electro-convulsant therapy,
but the time intervals were longer, than in the rabbit E.C0.Gs. The record consisted
mainly of 78—rhythm for the ﬁrst 10 minutes after E.C.T., and the patient appeared
quite unconscious during this period ; the 8-rhythm was then gradually replaced
by bursts of faster frequencies, and the patient opened his eyes and made unco-
ordinated movements, but did not recognize the peOple round him. Between IO
and 20 minutes after E.C.T. the EEG. often showed long bursts of G—rhythm
(7 cyc. /sec.) ; the phase relations of this rhythm indicated that it had a sub—cortical
origin, probably in the diencephalon. oc-rhythm reappeared 30—45 minutes after
E.C.T. and the patient’s responses to questions and commands were normal at
this time (Fig. 4).

DISCUSSION.

Experiments showed that the cardiac pain reﬂex could safely be used as an
indicator of consciousness of pain in human and animal subjects, and since it did
not involve voluntary muscle, it was valid during states of curarization. The
exact regions of the brain involved in this reﬂex are not known; the afferent
impulse travels by the lateral spino—thalamic tract to the ventral part of the lateral
thalamic nucleus, and the efferent path is from the cortex to the vaso-motor centre
in the medulla. The association area between the afferent and efferent sides is
uncertain, but when the reﬂex is positive, part at least of the thalamus and the
cortex must be functional.

After electric shock in the rabbit there is definitely a short period when the
c.p.r. is positive whilst the paw reﬂex is still absent, and a comparable condition
has been noted by Hume (1935) in man after electrical accidents. Voluntary
muscle apparently cannot function as the ﬁnal link in a reﬂex at this stage, and the
existence of this condition, when pain can be appreciated but voluntary movement
cannot be made, is a factor which Should be considered in future work on electrical
anaesthesia. .

There is abundant evidence that the EEG. and the state of consciousness are
closely linked (Lowenbach and Lyman, 194o ; Martin, 1949 ; Brazier, 1948 ;
Gibbs, Davis and Lennox, 1935; Swank and Foley, 1948; Adrian, 1947), and
Bickford (1950, 1951) has actually devised an apparatus in which the summated
cortical potentials operate the plunger of a syringe containing an anesthetic solution,
so that any desired level of anaesthesia can be automatically maintained. Faul-
coner, Fender and Bickford (1949) found that the oc—rhythm of man was a good
guide to the state of consciousness during the induction and recovery stages of
anaesthesia. Lewy and Gammon (1940) have described a 5 cyc. /sec. rhythm as the
oc-rhythm of the rabbit ; in the experiments described in this paper the constant
rhythm was a 6—8 cyc./sec. one, and although it did not arise from a part of the
cortex comparable with that which gives rise to the oc-rhythm in man, it was an
equally good indicator of the state of consciousness during chemical anaesthesia,
and was therefore carefully studied in the E.Co.G. after electrical stimulation.

The EEG. of both man and rabbit was ﬂat at the end of the clonic phase
following electro-convulsive shock, but after a» short period 8—waves appeared;
these waves are generally considered to have a sub—cortical origin, and hence their
appearance on the cortex indicates that the cortex itself is inactive. Walter (1936)
has noticed the widespread appearance of 8-waves simultaneously” with loss of
consciousness in man, and Lennox et al. (1951) associated the appearance of 8-waves
in monkey E.E.Gs. with a condition of stupor.

After this stuporose stage the B—rhythm is interrupted by bursts of faster -
rhythm, and therefore, presumably, the cortex is becoming active again. The
cardiac pain reﬂex is positive at this stage but there is paralysis of voluntary muscle ;
it appears that only certain parts of the cortex have recovered their function.
Jewsbury (1951) considers that perception of pain can be performed by large areas
of the cortex, and it can thus occur when recovery from electric stimulation is
incomplete. , '

Finally, normal oc~rhythm is re—established indicating that the cortex is fully
integrated with sub—cortical structures, and at this stage the subject has regained

' control of the voluntary muscles. Thus, the results indicate that the cardiac pain

reﬂex is a reliable and convenient method of assessing pain perception, and that it
is particularly useful in conditions of curarization when the voluntary muscles are
paralysed by electrical or chemical means.

 




 

 

6 I THE ASSESSMENT OF PAIN PERCEPTION.

SUMMARY.

(I) A reﬂex is described by means of which pain perception in man and animals
can be assessed when voluntary musculature is paralysed. ‘

(2) Rabbit E.C0.Gs. and human E.E.Gs. in various stages of anaesthesra and
after electrO-convulsant shock are described. ' .

(3) The functional activity of the brain responsible for the observed records is

discussed.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.

I should like to express my thanks to Dr. D. Richter and Major C. W.‘ Hume
for their continued help and encouragement, to Dr. W. W. Muslim, Dr. Spillane
and Dr. Gelfer for clinical assistance, and to Mr. J. Reynolds for technical assrstance.

REFERENCES.

ADRIAN, E. D., Physical Background of Perception, 1947. Oxford.

BERNSTEIN, L., ]. Physiol., 1950, 111, 33.

BICKFORD, R. G., E.E.G. Ctz’n. Nettrophystol. 1950, 2, 93.

Idem, Fed. Proc., 1951, 10, 14. ,

BRAZIER, M. A. B., ]. Nenrol. Nearosnrg. and Psychiat., 1948, 11, 113.

FAULCONER, A., PENDER, J. W., and BICKFORD, R. G., Anaesthesiology, 1949, 10, 601.
GIBBS, F. A., DAVIES, H., and LENNOX, W. G., Arch. Neurol. Psychiat, 1935, 34, 1133
HUME, C. W, Nature, Lond, 1935, 135, 105.

JEWSBURY, E. C. 0., Brain, 1951, 74, 336.

LENNOX, M. A., et al., E.E.G. Clin. Neurophysiol, 1951, 3, 63.

LEWY, F. H., and GAMMON, G. D., ]. Neurophysiol., 1940, 3, 388.

LONGLEY, E. 0., private communication.

LOWENBACH, H., and LYMAN, R. S., ]. Nenrol Psychiat, 1940, 3, 336.

MARSHALL, W. H., Stain Tech, 1940, 15, 133.

MARTIN, J. P., Lancet, 1949, i, 1 and 48.

MORGAN, C. ]., ]. Physiol., 1950, 112, 48.

MUSHIN, W. W., Proc. R. Soc. Med, 1951,44, 84o.

SWANK, R. L., and FOLEY, J. M., ]. Pharmacol., 1948, 92, 381.

W'ALL, P. D., and DAVIES, G. D., f. Neurophysiol., 1951, 14, 507.

WALTER, W. G., Proc. Roy. Soc. Med, 1936, 30, 579. "

 




1:, ,1

THE EFFECT OF ELECTRICAL STIMULATION OF THE BRAIN ON THE

PERCEPTION OF PAIN.

By PHYLLIS G. CROFT, Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S.,
Research Fellow, Universities’ Federation for Animal Welfare.
From Neuropsychiatric Research Centre, Whitchurch Hospital, Cardiff.

THE fact that electrical stimulation of. the brain can produce unconsciousness
in man and animals has been known since the eighteenth century, and from time
to time this knowledge has been used in the production of anaesthesia for surgical
purposes ; Hobday, in 1932, performed castrations and herniotomies in small
animals under electrical general anaesthesia, and in 193 5 Hertz used electrical anaes-
thesia for laparotomies in dogs. To-day electrical stunning is used in bacon face
tories with the object of rendering pigs unconscious before slaughter. Electro-
convulsant therapy (E.C.T.) is widely used in mental hospitals for the treatment of

‘certain conditions, and recently Freeman (1948) has modiﬁed this technique to

produce surgical anaesthesia for; prefrontal leucotomy.

In some instances electrical anaesthesia has proved satisfactory, but there have
been reports of “ distorted consciousness ” after E.C.T. in human subjects (Morgan,
1950), and of electrical curarization after industrial accidents (Hume, 1935) ; in
these conditions the subject is conscious of sensation but unable to make voluntary
movements. Such a condition is only appreciated when the subject is questioned
after regaining full consciousness, and hence, if it occurred in animals, it would not
be readily recognized.

The object of the work described in thiS'paper was to determine the effeCt of
the many variables of electric stimulation, and to investigate the state of cori-
Sciousness of human subjects and animals after electric stunning. It was
hoped thus to provide a basis for future work on electrical anaesthesia and to acquire
a better understanding of the action of E.C.T.

EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE.

.Malem'al.—The material consisted principally of rabbits of both sexes of various
breeds and ages, ranging in body weight from 200 gm. to 2,000 gm. A small group
of mental hospital patients was observed before and after routine E.C.T. ; pigs and
sheep were observed during the normal electrical stunning prior to slaughter.

A ppamtus.——Electr0-corticograms and electro-cardiograms were recorded as
described in the previous paper (Croft, 1952). Electrical stimulation for rabbits
was by means of a square-wave stimulator, designed to provide constant current
(Bernstein, 1950). The following could be independently varied : frequency 1—1,000
eye/sec. ; pulse width 0-1—50 m.sec. ; amperage 0—80 mA. Pigs and sheep were
stunned by 50 cyc. /sec. mains A.C. transformed down to 70—90 V. Human E.C.T.
was giVen with 50 cyc. /Sec. A.C. transformed down to 90——100 V.

RESULTS.
The results will be described under two main headings :

(i) Effect of variables on the production of unconsciouness.
(ii) State of consciousness after electric stimulation.

Eﬁect of Variables.

The typical sequence of events following effective electrical stimulation was as
follows :

(1) Initial momentary ﬂexion of the hindlegs, followed by violent exten-
sion ; the forelegs were stiff at this stage, but all reactions in the forelimbs
were less extreme. The spine was rigid, and the head strongly ﬂexed back-
wards. Respiration was arrested and defaecation and urination commonly
occurred. 0—10 sec.

(2) Rigidity passed off gradually, and weak clonic contractions of all
limbs occurred. 10—30 sec.

 




 

 

 

8 EFFECT OF ELECTRICAL STIMULATION OF THE BRAIN,

(3) Respiration re—started and the animal became ﬂaccid. 30—6o sec.
(4) Muscular tone normal, but animal lay motionless. Up to 8 min.

The above times refer to the rabbit, but the essential features of the four stages
were similar in rat, pig, sheep and man, and in rats undergoing Metrazol convulsions.

The extensor tonus of the ﬁrst stage always occurred when the stimulation was

sufﬁcient to cause unconsciounesss and could safely be used as an indicator for this
purpose. When stimulation was inadequate (i.e. did not cause unconsciousness) one
or more of the other stages might be seen, but extensor tonus was not present. In
this Work stimulation which was followed by extensor tonus is described as “ effec-
tive,” and a shock which did not produce extensor tonus is referred to as a “ missed
shock.”

The following variables were studied with reference to the rabbit: Amperage,
frequency, pulse width, time and site of application, breed and sex. ’l.‘welve
animals were used for studying each variable, and when a critical value was found
it was re—determined several times on the same animal over a period of a month, and
on a random sample of animals.

Amperage.~——This was a factor of great importance. A threshold value of 25—
30 mA. was essential for effective stimulation ; if the current was below this value,
no alterations in the other variables caused stunning. Between 30 and 80 111A.
there was little difference in the effect produced.

F requencv ——At 2 5 cyc. /sec. or less a true ﬁt did not occur, but the animal tw itched
synchronously with the stimulus, 5o cyc. /sec. and upwards produced unconscious-
ness (provided that the other variables were correct), IOO cyc. /sec being slightly
more effective than 50 or 200 cyc. /sec. Higher frequencies, up to I ,ooo cvc. /sec.,
seemed to cause pain as the current was switched on, and were no more effective
in causing unconsciousness.

Pulse width.——Pulse widths below :1 m8. did not usually cause unconsciousness,
but 2 m8. was very effective and pulses up to 50 m8. could be used satisfactorily.

Time of application—Provided that the time was at least 2 sec., further increases
did not make any appreciable difference to the results. It was not possible to com-
pensate for low current strength by increasing the time of application.

Site of application—The most effective site was (ii), which was in the region of
the motor cortex ; true ﬁts could be produced by stimulation at (i) and (iii), points
I cm. anterior and posterior to (ii), but a greater current strengtl'i was needed than
at (ii).

State of Consciousness after Electric Stimulation.

The state of consciousness was investigated by a number of different tests, and
the general behaviour of the animal or human subject was also carefully observed.
The tests used were :

(i) Reaction of the pupil to light.

(ii) Cardiac pain reﬂex (Croft, 1952).

(iii) EEG. in human subjects, electro—corticogram in animals.
(iv) Paw retraction reﬂex.

The normal conscious electro—corticogram from the precentral granular area of
the rabbit’s cortex had a characteristicfrequency of 5—8 cyc. /sec. ; from other parts
of the cortex the rhythms were less regular, but they always contained a large
proportion of fast rhythms ; slow rhythms (1—3 cyc. /sec.) were only seen in patho-
logical conditions or during anaesthesia.

' E.Co.G. recordings could be made I second after switching off the current used

for stimulating the rabbit. During the phase of extensor tonus bursts of high-
frequency activity alternated with very slow high-voltage waves ; the record did
not change appreciably until the end of the clonic contractions, when it ﬂattened
out completely , 1—3 minutes after stimulation this ﬂat record changed, and slow
waves of varying voltage appeared. The normal high— -frequency E. Co. G. was not
usually seen until at least 5 minutes after the stimulation and then only inter-
mittently; at this time the frequency was often slightly belowthe normal one
(4~ 6 cyc. /sec. ). In some experiments no high frequencies appeared until 8 minutes
after stimulation, but in every case the normal 6~8 cyc. /sec. rhythm was well-
established after 20— 60 minutes, and the E. Co. G was then indistinguishable from
the pre ictal one of the same animal




BY PHYLLIS G. CROFT, PH.D. 9

Several interesting phenomena occurred in the post-ictal E.Co.G. of the rabbit,
and they may be considered under the following headings: (i) spike and wave
records ; (ii) high-frequency bursts ; (iii) phase reversal.

(i) Spike and wave records were seen at intervals varying from 1—8 minutes
after stimulation ; the frequency was always 2—3 cyc. /sec. and the activity lasted
20—60 seconds, being followed in most cases by a short period of electrical silence.
The record appeared simultaneously in all leads and was in phase. ‘

(ii) Bursts of high—frequency waves of large amplitude occurred at intervals
varying from I——I7 minutes after stimulation, and lasted typically for 4—-IO seconds.
They were normally present on only one channel, though occasionally there was a

i S '
) mm. er stimulus

at min. after double

stimulus
2 min. after stimulus WW

1:) W lead 3
W

i lead ii.
ll”

 

 

 

A

/’ " 4 min. aft-
A er stimulus

   
    

er stlmlﬂus

1 second 1250 ,uV. in 3“ records except |ead i of high fre uency.

1500 ”v. in .334 i of hm. burst ”W“.

FIG. i.——Electro-corticograms from rabbit after electro-convulsant stimulation.

slow spread over the cortex. This record also was usually followed by a short
period of electrical silence. The bursts wererecorded from pOSitions (i) and (ii)
and bore no relation to the electrodes used for stimulation, appearing sometimes
fIFOm the same pair and sometimes from a different pair. .

(iii) Phase reversal was less common after stimulation than the two preVious
types of. record, but it was clearly shown in four different rabbits. It appeared
between 3 and 7 minutes after stimulation and lasted for 5—6 minutes (Fig. I).

E.Co.G. records after missed shock showed none of the characteristics of the
post-ictal record of effective stimulation ; they were essentially Similar to. the normal
records,

 




 

 

 

 

 

IO EFFECT OF ELECTRICAL STIMULATION OF THE BRAIN,

The general picture of the human E.E.G. after electro-convulsant therapy was
comparable with that of the rabbit, but the time intervals were much longer.
During the ﬁrst 10 minutes the record consisted mainly of B-rhythm, which was
usually out of phase in any two channels with a common electrode on the central
part of the scalp ; the subject was unconscious at this stage. The 8-rhythm was
gradually replaced by bursts of faster frequencies, and the subject opened his eyes
and made unco-ordinated movements, but did not seem to recognize his surround-
ings ; 30—45 minutes after the E.C.T. the oc~rhythm reappeared and the patient gave
intelligent answers to questions. The spike and wave and other phenomena seen
in the post-ictal records of some rabbits were not seen in human E.E.GS., but
between IO and 20 minutes after E.C.T. the human records often showed long
bursts of G-rhythm (7 cyc./sec.), which were not seen in the normal record of the
same individual ; the phase relations of this rhythm indicated that it had a sub—
cortical origin, probably in the diencephalon.

The reaction of the pupil to light can be used as an indicator of the activity of
the brain at the level of the Edinger—VVestphal nucleus. Preliminary animal
experiments showed that this reﬂex reappeared before the cardiac pain reﬂex,
after elimination of both by electric stimulation. The cardiac pain reﬂex was
positive at a time when the animal made no voluntary muscular movement and
did not respond positively to the paw retraction reﬂex, and when on casual inspec-
tion it would be considered unconscious.

AS the time interVals between the various phases of the recovery period were
very short, double shocks were given to a few animals to extend these phases (Klein
and Early, 1949). The reﬂexes reappeared in the same order in these animals,
thus conﬁrming the previous results. The overall picture of the levels of conscious-
ness ‘in the period following electric stimulation is best shown by means of a table
(Table I).

One other point which was noted in many of the experiments was the appearance,
in the rabbit, of a hypersensitive phase, lasting 2—5 minutes and occurring about 8
minutes after stimulation. The cardiac pain response was exaggerated during
this period, and any slight noise caused extreme alarm and violent escape move-
ments ; the E.Co.G. was usually normal during this stage, but occasionally bursts
of high-voltage spike discharge occurred in one channel.

DISCUSSION.

There are numerous references in the literature to the effect of variations in the
electrical characters of the stimulation required to produce an epileptiform ﬁt in
man and animals (Ivy and Barry, 1932 ; Clark and Wall, 1934 ; Harreveld et al.,
1943 ; Gaultierotti at al., 1949 ; Pierce, Russell and Patton, 1950), and Davenport
and Davenport (1948) have studied the effect of variations in the condition of the
experimental subject. Gaultierotti at al. (1949) used a frequency of 280 cyc./sec.
and considered that this was a critical value ; other workers, however, have used
a wide range (3o~3oo cyc./sec.) and found that frequency has little effect on the
convulsion, provided that it is not leSS than 50 cyc./sec. (Harreveld et al., 1943 ;
Arieff, 1949). The experiments described in this paper conﬁrm the latter view, but
both the Species of experimental animaland the method of stimulation differ from
that of Gaultierotti (:25 al. Walter’s work on 'photic stimulation (1951) indicates
that in certain circumstances the frequency of the stimulation can be extremely
important, but it is obvious from the present series of experiments that reasonable
variations in frequency have little effect on the production of unconsciousness by
electrical means.

Strength—duration curves are a characteristic of nervous tissue, and do apply
to electrical stimulation if the time of application‘of the stimulus is of the order of
a fraction of a second (Toman and Goodman, 1947) ; in this connection Longley
(1950) has stated that at least two complete electrical cycles must pass if a convulsion
is to be produced, so that if the frequency is 50 cyc. /sec. the current must pass for
a minimum period of 40 1118. When the stimulus is applied for one second or longer
the relation no longer holds ; the brain cells give an initial maximal response, and
are then in a refractory state when further stimulation is ineffective. Russell
(1948) and Boshes at al. (1943) note that the pattern of the ﬁt is affected by neither
intensity nor duration of the stimulus, prov1ded this exceeds the threshold value.

Variation in the electrical pulse width has surprisingly little effect on the response
provided that it is at least I 1118. (below this Width, the wave form is not truly

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

TABLE I .——C/2anges m Activity of C .1\'.S . of Rabbit after Electra—convulsant Stimulation.

 

‘ I

Time after
stimulation
(minutes)

Before
stimulation

Cardiac pain reﬂex

 

i

Per cent.
increase with
stimulation

I2

Duration of
response
(sec.)

Paw reﬂex

Normal

Voluntary
movements

Normal

Electro-corticogram

 

 

m

 

 

WW

 

 

 

7O

)

 

 

70

Very slow

 

 

70

Slow

 

 

 

10
N

L\

30

Slow

Slight

 

 

 

 

 

Normal

 

Normal

 

 

1 second

lee/«V

 

 

BY PHYLLIS G. CROFT, PH.D.

II

 




 

 

 

 

IZ EFFECT OF ELECTRICAL STIMULATION OF THE BRAIN.

square). It seemed reasonable to assume that the total energy of the stimulus ,
would be an important factor in determining whether a convulsion occurred or not,
but since decreased amperage cannot be compensated by increased pulse width,
energy is obviously not the essential factor. Amperage and wave form are the
characteristics which primarily determine the effect on the animal, and these may
be expressed in more general terms as rate of change. It is a biological axiom that
the stress to which any system is subjected depends largely on the Speed with which
the environment changes ; this axiom can be applied to the behaviour of the central
nervous system during electrical stimulation, since it is only large and rapid changes
of potential which abolish the activity of the cortex. '

There are considerable individual variations in susceptibility to electric stimula-
tion. Strains of mice have been produced which are particularly resistant (Stone,
Eady and Hauty, 1949), and certain breeds of pig are known amongst slaughter—men
for their high resistance. Rabbits with roan fur were always particularly resistant
and showed an unusually rapid recovery, whilst Dutch rabbits were very easily
stunned. Observations of Williams (1950) on the appearance of epilepsy in human
subjects are of interest in this connection ; he considers that there is a constitutional
factor which prevents the typical epileptic activity of the brain, as seen in the E.E.G.,
from causing a ﬁt ; thus, some subjects show numerous larval epileptic attacks on
the EEG. and rarely have a ﬁt, while other may have almost as many ﬁts as
larval attacks. The central nervous system and the skin and fur, are derived from
the same embryologicallayer, and it is therefore interesting to note that a high
threshold for electric stimulation in rabbits is associated with a particular type of fur.

The state of the experimental animal after electric stimulation was examined
by a battery of tests ; none of these alone could give a complete picture of the level
of consciousness, but together they provided much useful information. The
pupillary reaction to light gave evidence that the brain was functioning at the level
of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus ; the positive cardiac pain reﬂex indicated that
the thalamus and parts at least of the cortex were functioning, while the E.Co.G
gave direct evidence of the activity of the cortical neurons. The usual reﬂexes,
such as the corneal and the paw retraction, were also frequently tested, and the
general behaviour of the animal carefully observed.

It is generally agreed that in conditions of disturbed consciousness the more
complex modalities of sensation are most readily lost, while the more primitive
ones, such as pain, disappear at a later stage. This general theory agrees well with
the results described in this series of experiments. After electrical stimulation the
subject responded positively to the cardiac pain reﬂex before the cortical rhythms
were re—established, and thus showed that pain sensation was present at a time when
full consciousness had not been restored; voluntary movement was apparently
not possible at this stage, and hence the usual responses to painful stimuli were not
seen. At a slightly later period the defective integration of the ”cortex with sub-
cortical structures was shown by the appearance of theta rhythm in man, and of
abnormal bursts in the rabbit E.Co.G.

Wave and spike discharges are always associated with disturbances of conscious-
ness, and although the rabbit was able to make voluntary movements at the time
when these records appeared, it was obvious that the cortex was not yet stable.
Wave and spike in petit ma! is considered to have a sub-cortical origin, and its
appearance over a large area of the cortex simultaneously indicates that its origin
is similar in the rabbit after electric stimulation. It represents a sudden integra—
tion, in time, of cellular activity, coupled with a disintegration of the normal inter-
play of cell groups. Wave and spike records in the rabbit E.Co.G. may appear at
a time when the animal makes an exaggerated response to a slight stimulus, and
these facts together indicate that cortical control of lower brain activity is not
yet ﬁrmly established. ‘ '

Various “ nightmare states ” have been. described in man and animals (Hunter
and Jasper, 1949 ; Hume, 1935 ,‘ Longley, 1949 ; Morgan, .1950) in which the
subject is conscious but unable to make effective voluntary movements ; the stage
at which the cardiac pain reﬂex is positive but the paw retraction reﬂex is still
absent might be included in this category. Morgan (1950) attributes this state to
inadequate stimulation or to anterior placing of the electrodes ; Hunter and Jasper
(1949) describe an “ arrest reaction ” in cats produced by sub-maximal stimulation
of the intra—laminar nuclei of the thalamus. This term “nightmare state ”'pr0~
bably includes a group of conditions of varied origin in which the brain is function—

 

 

 




 

 

 

BY PHYLLIS G. CROFT, I’H.D. 13

ing at the thalamic level, but in which connections between thalamus and cortex
are impalred. lhese connections, being relatively recent from the evolutionary
pomt of View, are likely to be more sensitive to submaximal stimuli, and to recover
more slowly from an effective electric stimulus.

. Roth (1951) has suggested that E.C.T. in man affects particularly a mid—line
diencephahc structure with access to all cortical structures, and especially to the
frontal lobes, and that this may be homologous with the thalamic reticular system
of animals discussed by Dempsey and Morison (1942) and others. Roth believes
that by abohshing the activity of the higher, recently developed parts of the brain
homoeostatic Inﬂuence of the lower centres can be asserted and the subject may thus
regain a more stable equilibrium. , Russell (1948) has shown that E.C.T. eliminates
first the habits which have been most recently learned in animals that have under-
gone a long course of instruction. Theories such as these may explain in part the
therapeutic value of E.C.T., and they ﬁt in well with the experimental results
described in this paper. These results do, however, also show that electro—con-
vulsant stimulation is essentially a stunning process; the cortical neurons are
stimulated maximally, and are then in a totally refractory state for some time.
The post—ictal spike discharges indicate the risk Of brain damage during electrical
stimulation, and numerous observations on memory changes after E.C.T. show
that its effect on function can be drastic. Recent work by Holzbauer et al. (1952)
has demonstrated that electro—convulsant stimulation seriously retards growth and
healing in animals. These long-term results, together with the abnormal reﬂex
reactions in the immediate post—ictal period, show that there are many varied
factors to be considered in the future development of electro—co-nvulsant stimulation
for therapeutic and anaesthetic purposes.

SUMMARY.

(1’) The inﬂuence of a series of electrical and biological variables on the efficiency
of electrical stunning has been investigated.

('2') The state of consciousness following electrical stimulation has been examined
by a battery of. tests, including the EEG.

(3‘) The implications of the unusual states shown by these tests are discussed.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.

I should like‘ to express my thanks to Dr. D. Richter and Major C. W. Hume for
their continued help and encouragement, to Dr. Spillane and Dr. Gelfer for clinical
assistance, and to Mr. J. Reynolds for technical assistance.

REFERENCES.

ARIEEE, A. J., 1949, Arch. Neurol Psychiat, 62, 680.

BERNSTEIN, L., j. Physiol” 1950, 111, 33.

BOSHES, L. D., DARRow, C. \N., SOLOMON, A. 1)., and l’ATHMAN, J. ll., Arch. Neurol.
Psychiat, 1943,50, 108.

CLARK, G. A., and WALL, T. F., Quart. ]. exp. Pkg/stat, 1934, 24, 85.

CRorT, l). G., 1952, in Press. .

DAVENPORT, V. D., and DAVENPORT, H. \N., ]. Nutrit, 1948, 36, i, 139.

DEMRSEY, E. W. and MORISON, R. 8., Am. ]. Physiol., 1942, 135, 280.

FREEMAN, W., Lancet, 1948, 255, 371.

GAUI-TIE'ROTTI, T., MARTINI, E., and MARZORATI, A., ]. Neurophysiol” 1949, 12, 363.

HARREVELD, A. VAN, PLESSET, M. S., and WIERSMA, C. A. G., Am. ]. Physiol., 1943, 137, 39.

HOLZBAUER, M., RIGLER, R., and ROSENKRANZ, W., Nature, Lond., 1952, 159, 190.

HUME, C. W’., Nature, Lond., 1935, 135, 105.

HUNTER, J. H., and JASPER, H. H., E.E.G. Chin. Nez'trophysz'ol” 1949, 1, iii, 315.

lvv, A. C., and BARRY, F. 8., Am. f. Physiol., 1932, 99, 298.

KLEIN, l{., and EARLY, D. T., ]. Ment. Set, 1949, 95, 140.

LONGLEY, E. 0., Mid” 1949,95, 51.

Idem, Brit. Vet. f., 1950, 106, 250.

MORGAN, C. J., ]. Plzystol., 1950, 112, 48. ,.

PIERCE, J. F., RUSSELL, R. W., and PATTON, R. A., j. Psychot., 1950, 30, 157.

ROTH, M., Brit. Med. ]., 1951, ii, 415. ‘

RUSSELL, R. W., ]. Personality, 1948, 17, 16. 3 .

STONE, C. P., EADY, H. R., and HAUTY, G. T., ]. Comp. Physzol. Psychol., 1949,42, 427.

TOMAN, J. E. P., and GOODMAN, L. S., Res. Pub. nerv. ment. Dis., 1947, 26, 143.

WALTER, W. GREY, Proc. Roy. Soc. Alert, 1951, 44, 315.

\VILLIAMS, D., Brit. ﬂied. 1., 1950, i- 085-

 




 

PRINTED BY
ADLARD & SON, LIMITED
BARTHOLOMEW PRESS, DOB-KING

 




Reprinted from New Scientist, issue dated 91h January 1.96.9, pages 69 and 70

Sanctified torture

Despite pungent criticism by humanitarian societies, many American school children

are encouraged by their teachers, by text-books, by public exhibition, and by press, radio and
television attention to conduct horrifying experiments on captive laboratory animals

Before she died of leukaemia, Rachel Carson wrote
something to the effect that to begin by asking
young students of biology to observe artiﬁcial
conditions in their study of life is to create in their
minds what she called “distorted conceptions”. In
her opinion, it thwarted the development of their
natural emotional response to the mysteries of life.

If by artiﬁcial conditions, Miss Carson merely
meant traditional, supervised laboratory work, it
’ may be wondered what that extra~humane woman
would have said about the sanctiﬁed torture that
goes on in some American school rooms under the
name of biological research. A glance through
American pedagogical literature shows a wide—
spread acceptance of the view that students should
be allowed to do whatever they like in animal work.
and that the production of abnormalities is encou-
raged, and usually gets the prizes in science com—
petitions.

Small animals are whirled round in centrifuges
until they either become paralysed—or die. Others
are launched. dangling precariously below home-
made rockets to simulate space-ﬂight conditions. a
project which. although both unscientiﬁc and de—
monstrably inhumane. was recently cited for its
“excellence“ in the Washington DC educational
area. At the high school of Our Lady of Good
Counsel in Montgomery County. Maryland. mice
were starved in vitamin deﬁciency experiments.

Elsewhere. goldﬁsh were bathed in detergents and.

for some inexplicable reason. rats poisoned with

vodka. Splenectomies are being conducted by 15»
year—old school children in New York.

In what seems to be an effort to keep up with
contemporary culture. experiments with thalido-
mide are popular in Huntingdon. West Virginia.
and heart transplants in Columbus. Ohio. In that
city. students dressed up in surgical masks and
gowns opened up live bull frogs in front of telcvi
sion cameras. lce was used in place of a more
conventional anaesthetic. but as it melted under the
hot studio lights. the performers could no longer
rely on the tapes fastening down their victims. and
they were obliged to restrain the squirming animals
by hand. A commentator. a physics teacher. said
that the exercise was outside his ﬁeld. but the
experiments had the support of the medical people
in the place.

What can be made of these horrifying reports?
Are they to be classed among the worst kinds of
anti-vivisectionist propaganda——the sort of emo—
tional. rabble—rousing stuff that bedevils decent
research conducted by decent investigators? Or is
there something here that needs to be broadcast
widely as examples of what ill—educated parents and
teachers are advocating in support of that protean
monster called independent scientiﬁc inquiry? One
well documented case history may sufﬁce to show
which way things are going.

It concerns an 18—year-old high school boy
called Hartwell T. Ashford who was acclaimed the
winning exhibitor at last year’s Mississippi State

John Hillaby
is biological consultant
to New Scientist

 




Sancﬁﬁed
torture

Squirrel monkey which
had undergone amateur
surgery and attempted
implantation of electrodes
in its brain two weeks
before this picture was
taken. It died a few
hours later as a result
of the infected Wound
hidden by the dental
caulk, and general lack
of care

Science Fair for demonstrating “Neuro-electro
telestimulation and epileptic form reactions” (sic)
on squirrel monkeys. Four relics of his previous
experiments on 25 monkeys, including one dying
wreck with pus—exuding holes in its head, were
photographed and shown to busloads of Detroit
school children at the International Science Fair in
Cobo Hall, Detroit. There the experiment came to a
stop (perhaps only temporarily) as a result of a civil
investigation.

The investigation is substantiated by Dr Barbara
Orlans, a physiologist well—versed in animal ex—
perimentation, a researcher who has been associat-
ed with projects at London University, Johns Hop—
kins and the US National Institutes of Health. It
has been attested by- a pathologist, Dr Kenneth
Keahey of Michigan State University Veterinary
College and published by the instigators of the
investigation, the Animal Welfare Institute of New
York (Information Report, vol. 17, no. 2).

The institute is an organization which, like the
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare in Bri—
tain, believes that (to quote Schweitzer): “In every
single instance . . . (the scientist) must consider
whether it is really necessary to demand of an
animal this sacriﬁce for Man”. (The emphasis is
mine.)

The Ashford story, as related by the AWI, is
thoroughly unhappy, and reﬂects, principally,
against those who bore the responsibility for the
actions and attitudes of the youthful experimenter
concerned—a charge which, on the printed
evidence, implicates local members of the American
Medical Association who gave a dinner in honour
of the exhibitor.

Operation planned
before photographers

It seems that from the age of 14, young Ashford
had been using stereotaxic equipment, that is an
immobilizing vice, the adjustable bars of which can
be screwed on to the skulls of monkeys, enabling
the user to place electrodes, or other instruments at
a chosen spot within the animal’s brain. When
interrogated, Ashford had already implanted four
electrodes into one very sick animal, and hoped to
insert others in the presence of photographers
from a German magazine.

The sick animal was prostrate when seen by Mrs
Dorothy Dyce, the laboratory animal consultant of
the AWI. Inquiry revealed that the veterinary
surgeon who had inspected the exhibits on the ﬁrst
day of the fair told the fair director that the monkey
needed attention, but the young prize—winner said
he could take care of the monkey himself. Two
days later, the animal was so much worse that the
fair directorrordered it to be taken to a veterinarian
who gave it a shot of penicillin which proved
ineffective. Young Ashford claimed that he was
visiting Detroit “on an expense account” and hoped
to get a grant “to do more surgery”.

After attending to the monkey, Mrs Dyce tele—
phoned the Michigan State Health Department to
get an opinion on the legality of the proposed
electrode implantations in unlicensed premises. and
was advised that it would be appropriate for her to

New'Scientist 9 January 1969

take a copy of the Michigan State law and show it
to the organizers. Returning to the exhibition hall.
Mrs Dyce found that it was closed to the public at
nine o’clock, but at that hour those who were
attending the American Medical Association dinner
in honour of the exhibitors returned to the building.
Mrs Dyce was thanked by the fair directorate for
heading off the exhibition surgery which, they said,
would have most seriously damaged the reputation
of the hall and its science fair. But Mrs Ashford
who had accompanied her son to Detroit was
“irate” when informed that his international televi-
sion appearance would be illegal. “We don’t have a
law like that in Mississippi,” she stated emphatical—
ly.

That night the monkey died from a variety of ills
including purulent infection located beneath the
dental caulking which covered the amateur experi—
menter’s surgical efforts. A necropsy disclosed
large areas of 'sloughed and necrotic skin. The
electrodes did not pass through the skull into the
brain tissue, nevertheless there were holes' through
which they could have passed if they had been
embedded properly. There was extensive haemor—
rhage in that area.

Increase in student
backyard surgery

The foregoing is a sad example of what seem to
be quite common practices in some American
schools and homes. This is clear from analyses of
10 recent science fairs which show that 20 per cent
of entries (157 out of 802) involved pain or death to
higher animals. Dr Orlans says that during the last
decade there has been “an alarming increase” in
what she calls student backyard surgery. This
includes skin grafting, the removal of organs, elec—
trical stimulation, intensive irradiation, and drug
and poison injections (especially those calculated to
produce malformed offspring in pregnant animals).

Due to the extra—curricular nature of science
competitions, the projects are usually conducted in
basements, bedrooms or garages, where equipment
limitations alone turn them into a form of elaborate
butchery in which helpless animals are wounded,
maimed or killed. But it would be grossly unfair to
suggest that all school and state authorities are
turning a blind eye to what is going on. A Washing—
ton state law requires that “Not less than 10
minutes each week must be devoted to the system-
atic teaching of kindness to not only domestic but
to all living creatures . . . a general philosophy of
thoughtfulness and consideration for living things
should be incorporated and repeatedly emphasized
in all science teaching.” Other states have proc—
laimed similar injunctions.

The Science Teacher, a widely read journal, has
published articles by Dr Orlans and others on the
boundaries of use of animals in high school biology,
and the National Academy of Sciences’ Institute of
Laboratory Animal Resources has suggested that
insects, other invertebrates, and protozoa are the
materials of choice for. most experiments. But if
some move toward a moral sanity in this particular
area of school life has been made, it is evident that
much remains to be done.

 




Page 16

The Press, Atlantic City, N.J.-—Friday, March 11, 1983

 

:- TllV‘iiie Animal Deaie

By PEGGY MCCOY
Press Staff Writer

.MANSPIELD TOWNSHIP ——
Millville animal dealer Rudolf
,Vrana was found guilty here
Thursday on each of the 12
counts of cruelty to animals with
which he was charged Feb. 28.

Munci al Court Judge Harry
Supple ined Vrana $4,980
.5400 and $15 in court costs for
each offense. The maximum fine
for each offense is $1,000.

Vrana, 54, pleaded not guilty
to charges of transporting ani»
mals in a cruel manner. He had
102 animals —— 31 dogs, 40 cats
and 31 rabbits — packed into
cages. which were stacked in his
van. Officials from the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals testified there were
three to four dogs in each cage.
They could not count the number
of cats and rabbits that were in
each cage, but said the cats and
rabbits were mixed together.

Vrana was stopped here last
month at the intersection
Routes 206 and 68 by the
Cumberland, Burlington, Mercer
and Passaic county branches of
the SPCA. Vrana was heading for
New York, where he planned to
sell the animals to research labo-
ratories. He is licensed by the
federal Department of Agricul-
ture to buy and sell animals to
the labs.

“The court finds that the
transfer of animals covered with
feces, urine and unable
stand ‘constitutes unspeakable
cruelty,” Supple said in finding
Vrana guilty.

Three SPCA

_—.

officials had

trailed Vrana in two unmarked
cars from his Carmel Road
home. Stationed on county prop-
erty across the street from
Vrana’s home. the officials
watched Vrana make trips to and
from his van. They said they
didn't see him loading cages of
animals, but assumed that was
what Vrana was doing.

Lt. Joseph Graziano of the
Burlington County SPCA testi»
fied he and Sgt. Les Hoentz of the
Passaic County SPCA pulled
alongside Vrana’s van on Route
206 and observed “chicken
crates stacked right up to the
roof.

“It looked like the vehicle was
overloaded,” Grazi‘ano said.

Graziano and Hoentz radioed
Inspector Robert Forrest of the
Cumberland County SPCA. who
was in the second unmarked car.
They instructed Forrest to notify
Charles Gerofsky, state-chief of
the SPCA, at his 'i‘renton home.
Gerofsky left his 'iome and tra—
veled south on Route 206 in a
marked SPCA vehicle. '

Graziano testified that he and
Hoentz attempted to st0p Vrana
in Atlantic County by pulling up
to the van, blowing the car horn
and showing Vrana Graziano’s
badge and identification. Vrana
Seclined to acknowledge the or-

er.

Graziano also testified that he,
Hoentz and Forrest had “stand-
ing SPCA orders not to stOp a
vehicle with an unmarked car.“

“The reason we stOpped Mr.
Vrana is that he had the animals
overloaded," Graziano said.

Vrana did pull over when

their

 

Gerofsky signaled him by flash-
ing the lights and running the
siren on his vehicle.

Vrana willingly opened the
back door of his van after telling
the officials he was tranSporting
animals to New York. Vrana had
orders totaling $4,770. and $5,000
in cash in his possession.

“There were various animal
cages. The dogs were dripping
wet, and fluid was coming out of
eyes," Graziano said.
“There was no ventilation, no
partitions between cages. which
allowed excretion to fall between
the cages."

“The dogs in the bottom cages
had urine all over them and dog
drOppings,” Hoentz added.

Jones said a bad stench wasi
emitted from the van when the!
(1995,2255 openeaVVVV/r/

Vrana. who had trouble Linger-

. ”km/r... _ .___,____ _/

Rloaiﬁ Rinnla Rinnb’n Ti

 

 

 

 

if

1' Found/

(standing English and

Log/4 V L-{L vim

'— k

.' ‘ i K ,-
k‘ 4bkv‘vx “‘—‘\..A . ‘ a -" .«e

L",

< J )/ ’ . ()
l‘Q/ - 2 (£7 C’// [/"Q, 7'( IS‘ '

Gui it}

"~&..._ - - _._.

had court
approval to allow his wife, He]
na, to interpret questions for
him. testified he had placed
cardboard between each layer of
cages. He said theSPCA officials
hat’Jremoved the cardboard and
scattered it on the ground before
taking pictures of his van at the
Mount Holly SPCA shelter. Two
of the SPCA pictures were ad-
mitted into evidence.

Vrana testified that animals
sometimes get sick in transit,
which results in wet eyes and
noses ,and excessive salivation.
But he said the animals were not
excreting upon one another. He
also said he fed and watered the
animals up until the time he
loaded them into his van.

The state witnesses testified
the animals were crammed into
cages. They said the animals in

0

the center of the van eSpecially
lacked air, and that none of the
animals had enough room to turn
around in the cages.

Vrana was read his rights, and
the officials escorted him to the
Mount Holly shelter.

“Those cages were in there
like a jigsaw puzzle,” Graziano
said.

Vrana’s attorney, Jerome
Sweeney, made two attempts to
show that because the SPCA kept
the animals in the van until the
media arrived, the SPCA was
guilty of cruelty to animals. But
Supple ruled in favor of Prosecu-
tor Mike Seneindiver, who ob-
jected to Sweeney‘s questioning.
Seneindiver asked the judge to
restrict the case to the specifics
of Vrana‘s method of tranSporta-
tion. and suggested Sweeney
bring a separate case against the

1'

ti?) Cruelty Charges

0

SPCA.

Vrana testified that he kept
two windows Open slightly in-the
van to provide fresh air for the
animals. He said the heat was on
too. because it was a cold‘day.
He said that when he arrived at
the Mount Holly shelter,‘ the
SPCA officials made him keep
the van’s- windows and doors
closed prior to unloading- the ani-
mals} .‘ ..

Vrana maintained he had not
tranSported the animals in a cru-
el and unusual way, but rather
had packed the cages so that
they wouldn‘t shift during trip.
He said the animals'were able to
turn around in their cages.

In his closing statement. Swee-
ney contended that the SPCA did
not stop Vrana until he reached
Burlington County because the of
the SPCA’s fine collection policy.

 

 

 

[i

 




gegzonat nuuuuut

Woman Spots Pet Among 31]); Taken From Animal Abuser

. (Akin pvﬁan“"""
WESTHAMPTON —- A
woman gave posi-
ation of
herd-Siberian husky
to Officials at the,
Society' for the Prevention of
imals shelter here.
:The dog, “Bo,” was one of the
31 dogs confiscated from Mill»
ville animal dealer Rudolf Vrana
on Feb. 28. .Vrana was found
guilty Thursday in' Burlington

ennsauken

mixed br
Cruelty to ’An

' Cbunty 'MuniCipal Court ‘on 12
counts of transporting animalsi'n
apruel manner. - '.
iLinda Palmer'told SPCA offi-
Cials she let Bo outside one claimed anima

tive identific
German 55::

cluded details of .3 ras
er dOg; a

the SPCA.

viruses the are sufiering.
The SP3

of the dog. The ciescri tion in»

h on the,
dogs back, said Charles Gerot'o
sky, state chief and president Of

Gerofsky said the-2 SPCA would
continue its efforts to reunite to
pets with their owners. He said ci
the.SPCA might hold an open m
house, similar 'to the one held W
last- weekend, to bring' pets and re
owners together. But an Open C!
house won’t be sciieduled until
afflicted animals recover from at

the Burlin on Count SP
257-7345. gt .y CA
l

qunﬂfl I‘M TO”. A°W

W

U)

A plans to put un- to
811p for adbption, H

mOrning and he never returned. and it will guarantee free medi~
To prove ownership, Palmer preo cal care for one year on the
seated the SPCA with photo» adopted animals, Geroisky said.

graphs and a precise description

‘ h. l ' - -.r /‘ . . _".\
m J :(CTZi‘rx . W/{rC/Il,j” f: 4"“): 77/ /‘ _,/._./\l ’

 

L5

' Ir. ,
-7 I r i "x' 2
. ‘. cm 3”. i
i \-

r—DA Is Urged to Enter the ‘

Brookhaven Town Supervisor Henrietta Acamw

pora is all for the pursuit dof Justice \— as long; as it
’ ' ' breakin own oars.

(306:: tthrdvfdtfst cha'p'teg of what has been dubbed
the "canine caper,” Acampora has sent a letter to
Suffolk County District Attorney. Patriclr 5:161:13; ,
asking him to investigate alleged irnpnoprieue:1 a
the town’s animal shelter. And Councxlman Step ex:
Burke has promised to pay the town the $240.80 1

‘- ' 1...; ~ ‘
.a.» 4.-.—-.1‘\‘1 . ,.‘~Q..' '
a ~ u; ' - _

.‘I?'.' . bﬂ‘t'., “'5!

'fcost to replace the do?! “@3981? -139 Bﬁaﬁéﬁn
3"#-‘.-:‘f;;xii‘.i ' . w": 4 ' if; .-

_—-s

.1“. ;.-.t. (0.4.- .uwH-uoqi

Anyone wishing to inquire

' r in a midnight seizure of ﬁnancial rec

gig-08:13; ofﬁce of Irene Abramowitz, the shelg-
sor. .

$323332?” one of ﬁve town ofﬁcials who raided
the shelter Feb. 10 with the hope of discovering whyl',
according to the town attorney, several hundred do —
lars and more than 100 dogs -- mostly german shape
herds and doberman pinschers -— had disappeared

from-the shelter ins year‘s time. The other four~

. - _ mmiss ioner ‘Herbexjt 3..
-ofﬁmls-Fe’e-Pubh yigﬁamtvwew

“~w

M I-- -‘-.- "‘mq'A-t:
"' " ' ' - 7" '- ~, “T‘ ,:._;.‘w.ﬁpie- h.y,.,£ur-.efrvrwﬁ‘W-‘I _
- :- «uﬂwtfit‘bﬁ‘t‘gﬁfﬁgﬁhﬁi ‘ r3"- . , .nr, . - .

__‘A w
> 10’:

about a missing pet:can re vim-‘- 7‘

c ,..._.-A oﬂsl‘.
E 0 -~AL

Canine Caper’

‘ . ‘ troller
' Co eilman Eugene Dooley, Con. _
m Fabeli’gand Deputy Public Safety Commrssmno

mas Liguori. .- _.
er gothe town board meeting yesterday, Burke told

Acainpbra, “You’ll have the check by the end of the
week.” ,. - ..

Burke, who-wore agsmall bandage tinder the -

outside corner of his right eye'ésaid” after the meet-
' ’ ' . e oor. _ - . ,. _ .
mg."lt_sa8p11§terﬁ“:mth We?“

. .-., ..'.' _ _"- ._..,...-.» .4~“';1“1'1 .,‘$, 5
- ,. =m~ . ~ ~ Clo-tum wince”:
3’511‘.‘:g‘3432t9.’-‘5-915'1‘=§2mm" . .

ammtsﬁzbnﬁ-vﬁneﬁk‘ku'wo ‘. , _. .

.‘ R.“

l

 




 

try

By G. C. LERNER
and JOAN PERKINS
O/the BCT Staff
WESTAMPTON — A officials
have been besieged with thousands of
RQQRRQQLSNKQLT} frantic pet owners
who _belive_their animal may have
been. amgpaﬂieaeﬂanﬁ M_0n.d. a} in
£LQWded and unkemptcages iggmﬁ
en route to New York City laborato-

A.., n-.-~ -A n 0 --—-~

 

 

 

 

 

m-<_—.~—_~ A---. . .

ries.

“ﬁn...-

Charles Gerofsky, the state’s chief
law enforcement officer for the SPCA
(Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals) said persons who have

M- .w A _‘—A “1"-

had pets lost or stoléngnjhepast

- I _ __ -J”--~__--m--~<-.__.

month and believe theirﬂaﬁniﬂmalnmay

0,, ._-_.__‘__—_... - “‘4... A

”be among those confiscated ma i visit

- -- A__. a, .-. .n..----

”£11?SPCBEBEHer-Qaiiijﬁé‘s. Roadhere..-

- . ‘m-u

"”
>33.“ éa'g
A

.4336“.ng

t if?

M~v~ 6: w -~ vm-w
x: w? M1683: «om-«WE Jam .

. w: A .
‘ ' “a

«v...

. 3,1,,(ﬁpﬁ ‘ I 3“

“s

was» »

Lesley Hoentz, of the state SPCA, t

__..._— ...

Saturday or Sunday to reclaim their

pet. .
“We never eﬁpected a response

”-7..--“ ». a, _. -.... ~..-~o..o...—.-

like th‘s. The phone has rung contin-
UOUSIY -' hundreds and hundreds of

' “ m._....._..__._.. ._A -.._ .yw-_.._.........__.-_...

Fem? {clay-from as faraway as New

.—.-~——- _..._.... -_M.—.~v-w-a

 

~ --_..__.,A V_A—---..‘~v...m

WnnecticutLOhio and Penns l-
Gerofs y said. “I never had

‘-—-¢-w'- A¢ “— -MMWM

Fania, '___~ A...“
_arm_1dtéa that so many animals had
been stAJlen. I had no idea of the scope“

~——--‘—~"""‘ _ __.-......~m.—.. ‘-‘v--.4w—'m ~—

of the problem.”

_. ~
.w” “~_ -., -

Ninety animals, many of them
bleeding or foaming at the mouth,
were found in a van driven by Ru-
C1019h Varana, 55, of Millville, Cum-
berland County. He was arrested by
SPCA law enforcement officials and
charged With 20 counts of animal
cruelty for the inhumane transporta-

._____

,,. . .h . ‘f ..
.-,t:- '

”I zlé‘oaaourn’ '. -.i
‘ i“;

akes caged animals out of van.

,tion ofthe animals.

Varana, an animal dealer Leensed
by the US. Department of Agricul-
ture and permitted to sell animals to
laboratories for experimentation, was
released on $5,000 bail, pending a mu-
nicipal court hearing March 10. If con-
victed, he could face a fine of up to
$1,000 per complaint and have his li-
censerevoked.

SPCA officials said many of the an-
imals — 30 dogs, 40 rabbits and 30 cats
—- are believed to have been stolen
from pet owners.

After Varana’s arrestpf‘iﬁcﬁsﬁ
found papers thatshowedgthree‘103E
ayVar-

c._~_.‘_~-._._ —_.- a -1 ..._...,- .. A; A a. .

York Hospitals were goingtgrp,

_ -.,_... - .-....,-. _-__- -m-

Eajlﬁjlffor the animals. 5; ' K.

said , the—Adeal'eruvvas- fpaidAanxwhere.

,7
">

4/]? /;,U’ . 7m d7v’k/r
' <33355y”

7 “7

xméS

TUESDAY, MARCH 1, l983

- 13° "x; 0'

ndy DeSau

 

ingto help frantic pet owners

from $65‘to $130 fogva dog, depending

on whether it had received its entire

-. m

series of shots; $530 for a cat; and $20

1-..- ....._.._. .. ._-_.._~_u

jmgabbit.

Pet owners who believe their ani-
mal may be among the lot may visit
the shelter between 11 am. and 3 pm.
Saturday and Sunday.~They must
bring proof of ownership or identifica-
tion, Gerofsky said.

The animals are being housed at
the shelter which has not been opened
for four years, the officer noted. The
SPCA is asking for donations of food
and money to keep the emergency op-
eration going.

For more information, call 599-2869
or 267-7345.Donations may be sent to
the SPCA, PO. Box 164, Mount Holly,

08060.

6%

 




.. ._._ ,-. -«...._—~« _-—......... ....

Animals packedinm vang-..
driver accused of erueh

By GAIL C. LERNER
0f the B CT Staff

MANSFIELD —- Nearly 100 an};
.mals...sem.e..bl.e_e.ding.abdioaming at
themeuth...yesterday were found_ a; ,.
stuffed into cages too small for them ,. " "1?: ,_.,,,.,_ ' s .ch Wm
tamer/e in e Yen..e.n..r_qyte__t9laborato— *' . -‘-%" - m ee- .m
Liesjn N ew..Y..ork. City: and-the.B.re.na. _ ~ titéﬁwgm wgﬁ
ft“majo_r_itymof_th___e animals are be- ', rww“ few; WW
. d t 1 t ' _ ""1”“ h 3,5: _...‘. tl'f...
31:16: o-_ee_._p_.e_t.s_§.-olen In South J” .,:<:':. _. e W ﬁmmma

SPCA (Society for the Prevention . _, a? 2% Wswezmwm
of Cruelty to Animals) law-enforce " "= 7 ~ mteeag tiara:

 

". _ ‘Il

_ -- . as
raw ave-rear Mama

 

ment officers arrested the van driver 0‘
_ and charged him with 20 counts of ani-

mal cruelty for the inhumane trans-
portation ofthe animals.

The driver was identified as 'Ru-
dolph Varana, 55 0f .Millvflle. (“U")-
berland County. He was released on
$5,000 bail pending court proceedings
scheduled for March 10. '

Charles Gerofsky, the state’s chief
SPCA laweenforcement officer, said
crates and cages filled with kittens,
cats, dogs, and rabbits were found
piled to the top of Varana’s small
truck when the officers arrested him
shortly after 9 a.m. on Route 206131;,
.anima lsﬁwere in. tbetruckimnube
night .heter.e_-with.o.ut_.f_oed_._9.r_ we t__e.r.,
Gerofsky said.

‘LIbere_1va§__I19.-yeatilation in the.
sauteed...the--aeimels were hungry.
.ner.vous--and...soaking. wet._._.11h.ey_ﬂ.e.r£
packed on -top ._of-0ne_ anomaﬂdﬂ).
tight in the crates theycoulda’ttayeid.
.heing urinated on by,"e_a___c~lLcher,”
ﬂerofsky said, ‘..‘.I.he...c..r._aLQS._.W_8.__I‘8_S_Q
small the legs, atthelargereegé..W...ere..
J farcedinto bent positions.”

The Burlington County SPCA-shel-
ter on King’s Road in Westampton,
closed for more than four years, 'was
reopened yesterday to house the res-
cued animals. ,Ger‘ofskyqsaidthat tags
911....swne. .91 tn.e--9;9,g§._a§_\xé21t as the...
£998-91 ether; including German
shepherd, huskies, and coon hounds,
"male-ate at least a number of these
ﬁestol’e'nf _§_:'t__s_‘. “M ' " --._.

“ Céi'ofs y asked anyone who has
had a_p_§t_s_tQ]en_cc_luring the last month ~

ﬁﬂhﬁlgrsﬁeymndhas some proof of
ownershithgﬁcal‘l him at 609-599-2869.

“It is standard SPCA regulations
that‘no abused animal be put to
death; Gerofsky said. “We’re asking
that pe who can give these ani-
mals hom s‘tcall us at 267-7345 and
leave their names and numbers. We'll
get back to them at a later date after
we learn which ones have not been re
claimed.”

In the meantime, Gerofsky said
the SPCA is without funds and is seek~

 

 

 

 

 

rate It Mi twee

..- -mmnm

messes: £52” *, g
MVa'ﬁ‘ $5: ’. a,
3‘ Q ',
f _ .
\X 'e 1
«new “tweeter ta: m a

>. .1- I _ .3“.- ' , V .
* m mass: as» .. '.

«,5 W ﬂﬁkf‘ﬂ ' .
. . w W rear it"s"
ream! retreated! ‘a

Dogs were found crowded'into cages that were piled in van.

ing donations of pet‘ feed or cash to
pay for food and the oil to heat the
building. The officers are volunteers,
he said, and are paid for some of their
expenses only by fines levied in court.
Checks made out to the SPCA can be
mailed to PO. Box 164, Mount Holly,
08060.

According to Gerofsky, Varana is
an animal dealer licensed by the US.
Dept. of Agriculture and allowed to
sell animals to laboratories for eXper—
irgentation, although the method of
tr nsportation and where the animals
are acquired, are strictly regulated.
No hospital in Burlington County has
an animal laboratory.

After Varana’s arrest, officers
found documents that showed three

N 0W}: 91.75.99.933“. wereaeinate 2.1a

'Lywara-naggiﬂl“for the animals. The
hospitals arevAlbert Einstein in the

.BIan, .Celumbia, Universitymﬂmpital
3.0.d_-M.t.. Sinatﬂespital..- hotbinwum
3:93.913-

Gerofsky said state SPCA officers
from Burlington, Mercer, Cumber-
land, and Passaic counties had been
watching for the suspect’s van for seve
eral weeks, after being alerted. to the
alleged abuse of the animals in the
truck. Officers said Varana frequent-
1y delivers animals to laboratories.

Dr. Irv Huff, a veterinarian who
heads the New Jersey branch of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Divi-
sion of Animal Health, said licensed
animal dealers must comply with fed-
eral laws when they transport ani-
mals for sale to laboratories°

 

I

/" Q88 ’
M86"

6-133 B thi
NA;

 

/'

trig/TED COUnj/y 7177785

 




VIII. THE USE OF PRE- AND POST-OPERATIVE ANALGESICS
IN EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL MEDICINE

It is common practice in clinical veterinary medicine to use analgesic drugs
before and after surgical anesthesia. The purpose of these drugs is to reduce
the sensibility of the animal and hasten induction of anesthesia, as well as to
cause a smooth recovery. It seems that these drugs should be used more than
they are in experimental medicine and surgery. Some of these drugs alter the
physiologic response of the animal to stimulus. Therefore, the pharmacologic
action as well as the investigator’s experimental design must be understood.
Carefully chosen analgesic drugs before and after surgery relieve pain, fear
and shock, thereby aiding in the humane handling of animals as well as reduc-
ing surgical risk. It is indeed true that good scientific technique and humane
treatment are so closely allied that they are inseparable.

Some of the drugs useful as pre—and post-operative analgesics or sedatives
are the tranquilizers, (e.g., Acepromazine and Tranvet), the opiates (Mor-
phine, Innovar-vet and Demerol)*, the barbiturates, and Atropine. The tran-
quilizers and opiates reduce conscious sensory perception and therefore allevi-
ate fear and reduce the amount of intravenous or inhalant anesthesia needed
to accomplish proper surgical depth. These drugs also reduce the severity and
length of the excitement stage during the recovery periods. Many surgical
endeavors can be nullified if the excitement stage during anesthetic recovery
is not mitigated.

*Morphine is not recommended for cats. It can cause extreme excitement in this species.

 




 

UJ‘C’ of Pre-mzd Port-Operative Analgerz'cr 17

Atropine and the tranquilizers reduce secretion (i.e., saliva and bronchial
mucous). Furthermore atropine dilates the bronchials, and these effects benefit
respiration.

Care must be exercised when the analgesics are used before anesthesia
for they potentiate some anesthetic agents. Certain emergency antidotes should
be available in case of respiratory depression or cardiac failure. It would be
well to investigate and determine precisely which drugs are recommended to
overcome the effect of each individual analgesic or anesthetic.

Tranquilizers are most practical to use, and they can be readily given
by mouth. The untoward effects (mentioned in the foregoing paragraph)
are much less likely to occur if the drug is given by mouth. Dosage should
be determined by reading insert brochure and/or label on bottle, or seeking
the advice of knowledgeable laboratory personnel. Post- operative pain should
be relieved with appropriate drugs.

Sernylan (Phencyclidine Hydrochloride) is an effective means of render-
ing monkeys and apes calm and tractable. It should never be used as a general
anesthetic; however, it enhances the action of the barbiturates providing an
excellent pre-anesthetic.

Summarizing:

(1) It is necessary that scientific investigators understand and use anal- ‘
gesics for the relief of pain; this is important for scientific as well as humane
reasons.

(2) It is important to know that deep depression and death can occur
if the analgesics are overdosed, and to understand emergency procedures
necessary to correct the effects of overdosage. Sometimes this may only re-
quire increased or better ventilation or gentle artificial respiration.

(3) The oral route is an efficient and practical method to employ for
safe administration of tranquilizers and of barbiturates given animals to make

them calmer and more comfortable

(4) Unlike narcotics, the use of tranquilizers requires no narcotics license
or Federally regulated accounting procedures.

(5) Always find out the exact dosage; avoid overdosing.

The following charts give dosages for common species of laboratory
animals.

 




 

COMMON DOSAGE
DRUGS WITH
ANALGESIC,
AN ESTHETIC, OR
TRANQUILLIZING
ACTIVITY (Mg/Kg)

NOOBVG

 

 

SILLVD

EEZNVdWIHD

V'I'IIHDNIHD

N3 )Dll-D

"”8839

Old V3Nln9

HSLSWVH

ABNNOW

WI'lSSOdO

lIBQVH

 

IH — Inhalation

IV .. Intravenous
Rec- Rectally

P0 —- Orally

lP — Intraperitoneal
SC - Subcutaneous

IM - Intramuscular

 

AN ALGESIC DRUGS

Acetalsalicylic

Acid (Aspirin)

 

Phenyl butazone
(Butazolidin)

 

 

 

 

Meperidine
Hydrochloride

(Demerol)

Methidine

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D:
Q;
‘Q.
q
9
‘E
Q
Q
‘45
I;
’h
N
3.
S.
1.3
xx
§
N
I};
S
S
&
K
a,

 




 

COMMON DOSAGE
DRUGS WITH
ANALGESIC,
ANESTHETIC, OR
TRANQUILLIZING
ACTIVITY (Mg/Kg)

.LISBVH
WﬂSSOdO
ABXNOW
HELSWVH

Old VENIDO
N3 )DIHD
V'I'IIHDNIHZ)
BEZNVdWII-D
B'ILLVD
NOOSVB

 

 

 

lH -— Inhalation

lV — Intravenous
Rec... Rectally

PO .— Orally

IP _ lntraperitoneal
SC Subcutaneous

lM Intramuscular

 

TRANQUILLIZERS

Phencyclidine Hydrochloride
(Sernylan)

 

U56 of Pre-aml Pow-Operative Analgesia

 

 

 

 

Chlorpromazine

Hydrochloride

 

 

 

Promazine

Hydrochloride

 

 

 

Meprobamate

(EQuanil; Miltown)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

COMMON DOSAGE
DRUGS WITH
ANALGESIC,
ANESTHETIC, OR
TRANQUILLIZING
ACTIVITY (Mg/Kg)

lISQVH
NOSOld
WI'ISSOdO
ABXNOW
dBlSWVH
Old VENIDO
'IIBHEO
NBXDIHD
V11lHDN|HD
SBZNVdWIHD
3111’“)
NOOBVH

 

 

 

IH — Inhalation

IV - Intravenous
Rec.- R'ectally

PO .— Orally

IP .. Intraperitoneal
SC _ Subcutaneous

IM — Intramuscular

 

AN ESTHETICS -
VOLATlLE

Ether

 

 

 

 

 

Chloroform‘

 

 

 

Holothane
(Fluathane)
Methoxyllurane
(Closed Systems)

b:
In
t.
n
9
V:
N
0
\h
E?
“a.
m
3..
S
m
E
h
N
Eu
N
3.
R
§
cg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Oral sedation should be given to dogs before using chloroform.
Chloroform should not be used in a room where mice are housed unless
all of them are to be destroyed.

 




 

COMMON DOSAGE
DRUGS WITH
ANALcsmc,

AN E'STHETIC, OR
TRANQUILLIZING ,
ACTIVITY (Mg/Kg)

WﬂSSOdO
ABXNOW
HBLSWVH
Sld VBNIDO
WISHES)
NEXDIHD
V'l'llHDNll-D
BBZNVdWIHD
BILLVD
NOOBVS

 

 

lH —lnl1alation

IV - Intravenous
Rec- Rectolly

P0 —. Orally

lP — lntraperitoneal
SC .. Subcutaneous

lM .. IntramUSCular

 

BAR BITURATES

S
m
o
‘4‘
1°
‘55
E
N
K
”a
e
on
‘i‘
O
"b
'4’
52;.
N
N.
Q
m
I}.
.2
“N
0':
m
25'.
c;

Pentobarbital . < . I IV
Sodium (Nembutal) 30 up
Long duration ‘ » to 10
' lbs.
15
over
lOO
lbs.

 

 

 

ThioOental Sodium .. w
(Pentotbal) . ‘0 up
Short duration . | '0 50 lbs.

8-9
Up to 100 lbs.
5 over

100 lbs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*This chart gives anesthetic doses for barbiturates. It. is often helpful to use barbiturates in smaller
doses, administered orally. to make animals more comfortable and relaxed..

\

 




THE VOICE OF SCIENCE ON CAPITOL HILL

REPRI N T

F. A. S. PUBLIC INTEREST REPORT

Formerly the FAS Newsletter

Vol. 30, No. 8

 

SPECIAL ISSUE:
ANIMAL RIGHTS

 

 

October, 1977

 

Consciousness-raising has a momentum of its own.
The rights of political and other minorities, of women
and of children, have steadily expanded with time.
Resistance to religious discrimination encouraged re-
sistance to racial discrimination and its success laid
a groundwork for an attack on sex discrimination.

Within the human species, the direction is clear. In
this century, the repression of man by man for reasons
of race, religion or sex have a defensive and furtive
quality that foreshadows its future decline.

By comparison, the treatment of other animals by
man — the most intellectual animal — is still a closet
subject. Persons of humane sentiments generally pre-
fer not to know the conditions under which the meat
they eat once lived, or how the animal used, for ex-
ample, for cosmetic testing or a fur scarf, may have
suffered. Many feel that too much knowledge may
inoculate them with a psychic resistance to con-
tinuing an established lifestyle. If, for example, a
revulsion to eating meat overcame them, how would
they live?

With regard to eating habits, there is some justiﬁca-
tion for the fear of knowledge. Animals mass-
produced for the marketplace often live an artiﬁcial
life of considerable psychic stress quite apart from the
pain of mutilations (castration, debeaking) necessary
to keep the animals quiescent in conditions of con-
centration camp crowding and tedium.

Obviously, most animal experiments are necessary,
and most researchers are presumably conscious of the
desirability of avoiding unnecessary pain. But it is
worth observing that when medical science is practiced
on humans, the patients themselves, the Hippocratic

 

CAN SCIENTISTS HELP THE ANIMAL KINGDOM?

oath, intraspecies empathy and a closely enforced
framework, all serve to remind the medical practi-
tioners to keep suffering at a minimum.

No comparable restraints operate to remind the
animal experimenter to limit animal suffering and
stress to the minimum necessary to the human goal.
It is noteworthy that British experimenters have long
accepted and supported restraints and regulations in
excess of those we have. But more important than the
sometime medical excesses, or the experimenter’s pos-
sible insensitivity to behavioral needs, may be the po-
tential for unnecessary pain in commercial testing of
questionable products.

There is also the problem of cruelty in hunting wild-
life, and its simple lack of necessity. And there is,
of course, the animal counterpart of what, in human
terms, we would call genocide -— the extinction of a
species or subspecies. Here, quite apart from suffer-
ing, there is a still higher imperative. It would seem
to apply with special force to the case of whales — so
large, so similar to us in structure, with such promising
indications of intelligence, and whose hunting is so
unnecessary to the way of life of those that kill so
many.

In the 20th century, man has generally accepted his
evolutionary descent from lower animals. But he has
not yet accepted an obvious corollary to Darwinian
evolution — a spectrum of emotional awareness and ‘
of intellectual ability among the animals.

This blindness must evenutally fail. It has long
been universally conceded at least that animals can

—Continued on page 2
— Reviewed and Approved by the FAS Council

 

 

SCIENTISTS OUGHT TO BE PLAYING A
CONSTRUCTIVE RATHER THAN A
REARGUARD ROLE

A review of the literature on modern farming, treatment
of wildlife and animal experimentation shows legitimate
moral questions remain to be answered— and too few
scientists involved in trying to answer them. The only
scientists directly involved are the spokesmen for the
animal experimenters who overreact not only to any con-
structive proposals for change but even to minor turns of
phrase in little read government documents.

Animal experimentation is in no danger. “Better them
than us” is a widely understood axiom of medical advance.
So why should the only scientists who testify on the ques-
tion of a Government Commission on the Humane Treat-
ment of Animals oppose it? Must the scientiﬁc community
support the clearly questionable procedures of factory

farming on billions of animals simply because a commis-
sion might suggest better housing for the laboratory dogs
our community necessarily exploits?

We need an organization of scientists in America com-
parable to the British Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare (UFAW.) It would try to apply what is known
about animal behavior to the humane treatment of ani—
mals for experiments and food. Adopting a balanced and
undefensive attitude, it would add luster to the moral
image of the scientiﬁc community. The alternative is to
have the community seen as insensitively protecting its sec-
tor of animal use to the point where it even denies legiti-
mate questions in other areas of animal exploitation. There
is little enough to fear in our ability to maintain support
for legitimate animal experimentation. And our commu—
nity has enough to worry about already in cultivating a
valuable public reputation for common sense. 1:]

 

 

 

 

 




Page 2

 

Continued from page 1

suffer. Human empathy is such, happily, that this
should be enough to proscribe needless animal suffer-
ing. From such a beginning, one can begin to con-
sider thereafter in what balance the concept of “need-
less” should be struck. Empathy with other species
need not lessen any valid claims of our own.

All of these issues raise questions of special interest
to scientists of a humane instinct. To what extent is
the eating of how much meat necessary or even un-
healthy? How much suffering, and how much be-
havioral stress, is involved in modern factory farming
and how can it be alleviated? Can scientiﬁc methods
be devised that would make unnecessary a fraction of
the tens of thousands of painful tests on animals each
year? And can the pain of many of the remaining ex-
periments be signiﬁcantly or importantly diminished?
Above all, what can science bring to bear on the ques-
‘ tions of our intellectual and emotional descent from

the animal kingdom?

It is now 150 years since the formation in England
of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to An-
imals. Rapid recent progress in communication with
primates has enhanced the possibility of a signiﬁcant
leap forward in the empathy with which the human
species treats other species. But, as with so many
other issues in this industrial age, this improvement
cannot be made without the active involvement of
scientists who care. C].

 

October, 1977

ﬁ

mals to be sold in research laboratories. And it permits
the Secretary of Agriculture to issue standards for
“housing, feeding, watering, sanitation, ventilation,
shelter from extremes of weather and temperature,
separation by species, and adequate veterinary care”,
The Secretary can do nothing, however, to prescribe any
standards whatsoever for the animal’s treatment during
actual research or experimentation. Nor does it license
the experimenter. '
The lobby for the animal experimenters in shaping this
legislation was the National Society for Medical Research
(NSMR) which asserts its primary purpose, on brochures,
to be to:
“assure continued progress in the US. biomedical re-
search effort by protecting the scientiﬁc investigator’s
right to use laboratory animals, whenever he feels it

——Continued on page 3

 

 

 

 

EXISTING LEGAL RIGHTS FOR ANIMALS

The Puritans already had, in 1641, laws prohibiting
“any Tirranny or Crueltie towards any bruite Creature
which are usuallie kept for man’s use”. Today all states
have anti-cruelty laws. (Forty-one of them cover all ani-
mals but seven are restricted to “owned” animals.) By
and large, these statutes cover protection from cruel treat-
ment, and the provision of wholesome food and water and
of shelter from the weather.

The ﬁrst important Federal law for protection of ani-
mals was the 28 Hour Law of 1906. It addressed the ex-

traordinarily inhumane and unsanitary way in which cattle

were shipped to market by limiting unbroken journeys
by rail. Crammed into railroad cars like sardines, cattle
died and the survivors lost hundreds of pounds of weight
before arrival. Unfortunately, the Act did not envisage
major transportation of animals by truck and attempts to
amend it have failed.

A half century later came the second important law, the
Humane Slaughter Act of 1958 which induced the big
packers to adopt better slaughter techniques by placing
restrictions on slaughtered meat that could be sold to the
government. (Many, but not all, states have humane
slaughter acts to cover the smaller packers as well.) The
Act required that the animal be:

“rendered insensible to pain by mechanical, electrical,

chemical or other means that is rapid and effective,

before being shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast or cut”.

The third important law was the Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act of 1966 and its successor the Animal Welfare
Act of 1970. The Act was induced by owners of pets who
feared that their dogs or cats might be kidnapped and then
experimented upon. It therefore licensed dealers in ani-

Chairman: GEORGE W. RATHJENS
Vice Chairman: JEROME D. FRANK

necessary.” (italics in original.)
Secretary: JOHN T. EDSALL
Treasurer: FRANK VON HIPPEL

Director: JEREMY J. STONE

The Federation of American Scientists is a unique, non-
proﬁt, civic organization, licensed to lobby in the public
interest, and composed of 7,000 natural and social scientists
and engineers who are concerned with problems of science
and society. Democratically organized with an elected
National Council of 26 members, FAS was ﬁrst organized
in 1946 as the Federation of Atomic Scientists and has
functioned as a conscience of the scientiﬁc community for

more than a quarter century.

SPONSORS (partial list)
*Christian B. Anﬁnsen (Biochem.) *Willis E. Lamb, Jr. (Physics)
‘Kenneth J. Arrow (Economics) *Wassily W. Leontief (Economics)
’Julius Axelrod (Biochemistry) *Fritz Lipmann (Biochemistry)
*David Baltimore (Microbiology) *8. E. Luria (Biology)

Leona Baumgartner (Pub. Health) Roy Menninger (Psychiatry)

Paul Beeson (Medicine) Robert Merton (Sociology)
'Hans A. Bethe (Physics) Matthew S. Meselson (Biology)
*Konrad Bloch (Chemistry) Neal E. Miller (Psychology) .
‘Norman E. Borlaug (Wheat) Hans J. Morgenthau (Pol. Scrence)

Anne Pitts Carter (Economics) Philip Morrison (Physics)

’Owen Chamberlain (Physics) Marston Morse (Mathematics)

Abram Chayes (Law) *Robert S. Mulliken (Chemistry)
*Leon N. Cooper (Physics) Franklin A. Neva (Medicine)

Mildred Cohn (Biochemistry) *Marshall Nirenberg (Biochem.)
'Carl F. Cori (Biochemistry) *Severo Ochoa (Biochemistry)

Paul B. Cornely (Medicine) Charles E. Osgood (Psychology)
*André Cournand (Medicine) *Linus Pauling (Chemistry)

*Max Delbruck (Biology) George Polya (Mathematics)
*Renato Dulbecco (Microbiology) Oscar Ric; (Physmal Chemistry)

John T. Edsall (Biology) *Burton Richter (PhySics)

Paul R. Ehrlich (Biology) David Riesman, Jr. (Socrology)
*John F. Enders (Biochemistry) *J. Robert Schrieﬁer (PhySICS)

Adrian Fisher (Law) 'Julian Schwinger (PhySics) .
*Paul J. Flory (Chemistry) Herbert Scoville, Jr. (Def. Pohcy)

Jerome D. Frank (Psychology) Alice Kimball Smith (History)

John Kenneth Galbraith (Econ.) Cyril S. Smith (Metallurgy)

Richard L. Garwin (Physics) Robert M. Solow (Economics)

Edward L. Ginzton (Engineering) *William H- Stein. (Chemistry)
*Donald A. Glaser (PhySics-Biol.) 'Albert Szent-Gyorgyi (3104131113
*H. K. Hartline (Physiology) *Howard M. Temin (Microbiology)

Walter W. Heller (Economics) James Tobin (BCOﬂOmiCSI
*Alfred D. Hershey (Biology) *Charles H. Townes (PhySics)

Hudson Hoagland (Biology) *Harold C. Urey (Chemistry)
'Robert W. Holley (Biochemistry) *George Wald (Biology) _ 0

Marc Kac (Mathematics) Myron E. Wegman (Medicine)

Henry S. Kaplan (Medicine) Victor F. Weisskopf (Physrcs)

Carl Kaysen (Economics) Jerome B. Wiesner (Engineering)
‘H. Gobind Khorana Robert R. Wilson (PhySics)

(Biochemistry) C. S. Wu (Physics) . .

George B. Kistiakowsky (Chem. ) Alfred Yankauer (Medicme)
*Arthur Kornberg (Biochemistry) Herbert F. York (Physics)
*Polykarp Kusch (Physics)

NATIONAL COUNCIL MEMBERS (elected)

Ruth S. Adams (Sicence Policy) Victor Rabinowitch (World Devel.)

Bruce Ames (Biochemistry) Leonard Rodberg (Pol. Science)

Lipman Bers (Mathematics) Arthur H. Rosenfeld (Physics)

Nma Byers (PhysiCS) Carl Sagan (Astronomy)

Geoffrey Chew (Physics) Joseph L. Sax (Environ. Law)

Thomas Eisner (Biology) William Shurcliff (Physics)

Rose E. Frisch (Human Biology) George A. Silver (Medicine)

 

Morton H. Halperin (Pol. Science)
William A. Higinbotham (Physics)
John P. Holdren (Energy Policy)
Myra Karstadt (Law-Biochemistry)
Daniel Koshland, Jr. (Biochem.)

Jeremy J. Stone (Mathematics)
Frank von Hippel (Physics)

Myron E. Wegman (Medicine)
Alvin Weinberg (Physics)

Robert H. Williams (Energy Policy)

*Nobel Laureates

 

 

 

 

CO]
to

sug
on
sp:
Q

 




October, 1977

Continued from page 2

Its past President Maurice B. Visscher wrote in 1971 that
“Eternal vigilance is the price of progress in biological
science so long as an antivivisection movement exists”;
this is clearly the posture of the society. In July its Ex—
ecutive Director criticized the Department of Agriculture
for reporting that the Department’s efforts, under the Ani-
mal Welfare Act, were efforts to “monitor the use of
laboratory animals and reduce painful experimentation”.
(italics added.) NSMR said the italicized phrase was
“inﬂammatory to animal lovers”.

In an interview with FAS, the NSMR Director Dr.
Thurmond Grafton was not willing to assert that any
speciﬁc parts of the tougher British Cruelty to Animals
Act of 1876 would be unacceptable here. But he argued
that the act, and the presence of a powerful Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, had created a
“restrictive climate” that had, indeed, even led to brain
drain among British animal experimenters. Asked why
the Littlewood Commission Report, which reviewed the
Act’s 90 years of operation, showed an absence of objec-
tions to the act among his counterpart, the British Re-
search Defense Society, he suggested they felt obliged to
play along. ‘

In explaining his differences with the Animal Welfare
Institute, he discussed its proposal that all animals be
housed in audio and visual contact with other members of
the same species. His response, he reported, was to note
facetiously that, in his work, dogs had been caged both in
view of one another and in view of a golf course and, in
ten years, he had never received from the dogs any evi-
dence that they preferred one or the other.

Asked somewhat later whether his own pet dog was
capable of emotions and, in particular, boredom, he con-
ceded that it was, but went on to raise and demolish the
straw man that “dogs . have the same emotional
range” as humans. One got the impression that NSMR
is so locked in combat with “antivivisectionists” that it
ignores the possibility that treatment of laboratory animals
might be improved without impairing laboratory research.

The extreme unwillingness of the community of experi—
menters to challenge the authority of individual experi-
menters is evident in the Guide for Care of Laboratory
Animals prepared by a Committee of the National Re-
search Council composed of ten doctors of veterinary
medicine.*

For example, in discussing the “widely debated” ques-
tion of exercise, it observes:

“Conﬁnement in a cage has been equated by some
with lack of exercise and physical or psychological
discomfort, while regular release from conﬁnement
has been equated with exercise and physical or psy—
chological well-being. However, conﬁnement in a
cage per se does not necessarily inﬂuence the amount
of exercise an animal engages in, and it does not
necessarily affect an animal’s well—being”.

Having made this hedged observation, so at odds with
common sense, it goes on to leave the matter of exericise
to “professional judgement” and to preface its very few
suggestions with the phrase “If exercise is needed”. Its
only encouragement to the construction of out-of—cage
space for dogs appears as the “practical” reason that

 

*Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals prepared
under the auspices of the Institute of Laboratory Animal Re—
sources, National Research Council.

 

Page 3

“In addition to providing more opportunity for exer-
cise pens or runs also provide a convenient place to
hold dogs while their cages are being cleaned”.
In short, exercise for the dog is put forward diffidently as
a convenience for the experimenter.

Even these kinds of uncontroversial observations are
limited in the introduction to the guide by assertions of
the Guide’s “permissive language and intent”, and by
observations that the Guide was not intended to “limit
the investigator’s freedom”.

The code of individual conduct which the NSMR en-
dorses does say that all laboratory animals “must be kindly
treated”. But obviously kind treatment would normally
include exercise out of a cage and since the Guide en-
dorsed by this code evades even this conclusion, one ﬁnds
the code hard to take seriously.

By contrast, the» Animal Welfare Institute took this
problem of exercise quite seriously and produced an in-
spirational ﬁlm “Laboratory Dogs” which would have
done NSMR proud. Rather than show the horrors possible
in animal experimentation, the ﬁlm is “upbeat” and shows
how content romping dogs can be in a model institution
(Department of Surgery, University of Ottawa) that really
cares for them and about them while experimenting upon
them.

The guiding spirit of the Animal Welfare Institute is
Christine Stevens, daughter of a humane physiologist. It is
unfortunate that NSMR officials cannot distinguish re-
formers from oppositionists; they treat her as if she were
simply a more dangerous (“camel under the tent”) ver-
sion of “antivivisectionists”.

The British View Has Long Been More Advanced
“Animal experiment is a complex and highly special—
ized subject. It is also a moral and social problem of
the ﬁrst magnitude and one that does not exclusively
concern the expert.” Littlewood Report, April 1965.
In the regulation of animal experimentation, the British

seem clearly to be a century in advance of the United
States. The Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 contains a
number of features of responsible control still the subject
here of political strife. And there is a startling degree of
political consensus upon these features across the British
spectrum of view from medical researchers to representa-
tion of humane societies.

For example, under the 1876 Act, researchers are li-
censed and severe or protracted agony is strictly limited,
at least in principle.*

For the spokesman for American researchers, these
would be considered extended incursions into their right
to control whatever transpires in the laboratory. British
scientists, living under these controls, evidently have no
such problems. In 1965, an exhaustive, urbane and
thoughtful survey of the operations of the 1876 Act was
undertaken by the Littlewood Commission. Among its
conclusions were that the Act had been “generally ef—
fective”:

“. . . no licensees appeared to regard it as a piece of

useless bureaucracy, many left us in no doubt of their

high respect for it.”
—Continued on page 4

*Animals are destroyed painlessly if: a) suffering pain which is
“either severe or is likely to endure” and if the “main result” of
the experiment has been achieved; b) suffering “severe pain
which is likely to endure” even if the experiment is underway and
c) if an Inspector so directs after it appears to him that an
animal is “suffering considerable pain”.

 

 

 

 




 

Page 4

Continued from page 3
There had, incidently, never been a prosecution under the
Act.

It was also revealing that the British Research Defense
Society, counterpart of our National Society for Medical
Research (NSMR) had given general support for the
1876 Act. Speaking for a very broad coalition of scien-
tiﬁc societies it endorsed notions that would cause wide-
spread alarm here among spokesmen for experimenters,
e.g. that there should be a limit to the pain inﬂicted and
even that the concept of pain should include mental suf—
fering.

While supporting the principle of freedom of research,
this coalition of experimenters was willing to espouse also
such principles as the avoidance of needless pain, avoiding
animal use where insentient material would suﬂice, and
limiting the number of animals to those that are essential.
(Though easy to endorse in logic, U.S. animal experiment-
ers would often be loath, for political reasons, to be asso-
ciated with them.)

The British animal welfare landscape includes two fea-
tures reﬂecting a more advanced consciousness. A half
century ago, in 1926, British scientists formed a Universi-
ties Federation for Animal Welfare (UFAW) whose prin-
cipal aim was:

“to promote humane behavior towards wild and do-

mestic animals in Britain and abroad so as to reduce

the sum total of pain inﬂicted on animals by man.”
UFAW was founded by Major C. W. Hume who has been,
among other things, a founding member of the Society for
Freedom of Science — an organization devoted to defend-
ing British science from regimentation.

It is obviously very desirable to have a scientiﬁc so-
ciety, embued with a sense of scientiﬁc necessities that is
at the same time insulated from the special interests and
anxieties afﬂicting the involved animal experimenter.

A second unusual feature of the British landscape is a
four-year-old foundation funding scientiﬁc research prom—
ising to lessen the degree of reliance on animal research.
The fund is called “Air Chief Marshall the Lord Dowding
Fund for Humane Research”. It has worked, for exam-
ple: to open up the possibility of designing new drugs
theoretically so as to greatly reduce the number of hit and
miss trials traditionally undertaken; and it has advanced
the study of intermediate metabolites outside the body.

This fund has had the effect of reopening the debate on
a middle ground that channels the activities of antivivi-
sectionists into politically feasible areas. Earlier this year
a poorly funded American counterpart was formed called
the American Fund for Alternatives to Animal Research

(AFAAR) and other counterparts are being formed in

 

 

 

ANIMALS USED IN EXPERIMENTATION \

1973 1974 1975
Dogs 195,157 199,204 154,489
Cats 66,195 74,259 51,439
Primates 42,298 51,253 36,202
Rabbits 447,570 425,585 448,530
Hamsters 454,986 430,766 456,031
Guinea Pigs 408,070 430,439 436,446
Wild Animals 38,169 81,021 42,523
TOTAL 1,653,345 1,692,527 1,625,660
*Does not include mice and rats since the US. Department of

Agriculture does not keep track of them.

 

 

October, 1977

 

SCIENTISTS DESCRIBE
POINTLESS EXPERIMENT

In a letter to the Journal of the American Medi-
cal association (JAMA) on August 1, two researchers
denounced FDA for “inane pronouncements on can-
cer dangers” and said that: “In response to this non-
sense, we inserted sterilized dimes into the peritoneal
cavity of 35 rats on March 28, 1976”. Noting that
“as expected” the rats had developed sarcomas, they
recommended sardonically that FDA convene an
“emergency meeting for the purpose of removing all
coins from circulation”.

Reached by telephone, Dr. William N. Palmer of
Denver General Hospital conceded that he had had
“no doubts about the outcome of the experiment”.
But asked for the purpose of the experiment, he de.
clined to comment. His associate Dr. George E.
Moore denied the suggestion that the experiment had
had political rather than scientiﬁc purposes.

But a scientist at the National Cancer Institute said
the experiment was a “misuse of cancer funds and of
laboratory animals to make a humorous point” and
called the affair disgraceful.

 

 

 

Europe, Australia and South Africa. A legislative initia-
tive in the same direction was introduced this year by
Congressman Edward Koch in HR. 2448; it would author-
ize HEW to make grants with a view to developing “meth-
ods that use no or fewer live animals or produce less pain
and suffering in such animals than the methods currently
in use”. E]

FACTORY FARMING

Although of special interest to scientists, medical experi-
mentation on animals is only the most dramatic of three
sectors where improvement is possible. A second area,
more important in numbers, lies in the so-called factory
farming in which animals are brought up in environments
of such enormous crowding and tedium as to produce men-
tal suffering and stress. Take, for example, the treatment
of 3 billion barnyard chickens each year. The success of
the poultry industry in reducing the price of chicken has
been extraordinary. From the “chicken in every pot” lux-
ury to which Herbert Hoover referred, we have now the
Kentucky Fried Chicken outlet on every block. But how
was it done? An article “Brave New Chickens” by Stephen
Singular described the Orwellian world in which the chick-
en lives.

One day after hatching, the chickens are given to local
growers. A single building may receive 75,000 chickens
who never thereafter see the light of day. '(Indeed, th€
artiﬁcial light is kept dim to keep the birds calmer.) Their
food is dosed with the cosmetic xanthophyll to make them
yellow. On the tenth day they are “debeaked” to avoid
the cannibalism that would otherwise result in the crowded
quarters which their growth will soon induce. Sometimes,
they cannot stretch their wings. After seven or eight
weeks, they are passed through an electriﬁed solution that
is supposed to stun them, hung upside down and steered
into a blade that slits the throats of ﬁve birds a second.

The chickens are no longer fed diethylstilbestrol (DES)

—Continued on page 5

20‘
dit
fez
ag;

 




 

October, 1977

Page 5

 

Continued from page 4

which it is believed causes cancer of the vagina and upsets
human hormone balance. But they are fed antibiotics
which, when their residues are absorbed by the human
stomach, encourage human resistance to penicillin and
other antibiotics. And the stress produced by crowding
causes a cancer in chickens (Marek’s disease) and other
diseases as well.

Those whose opposition to eating meat stems from
compassion even have problems with eggs; they talk of
restricting themselves to “free range” chickens because
most egg—laying hens do not today have free range. Far
from it. Since hens lay more eggs when eggs are taken
from them, the modern procedure simply removes the eggs
at once by tilting the cage. Here the light is kept on 21
hours a day since this was found to encourage egg laying.
One problem arises when hens run out of calcium to pro-
duce the shells; the resultant shortage of calcium in their
bones also makes it impossible for them to stand.

What is one to think about the life led by such animals?
Obviously the chicken would be happier and healthier in
a barnyard. The sounds made by the chicken (shrieks and
moans replace the contented clucking of the barnyard
chicken) —- and the cannibalism that would result if de-
beaking did not occur— all testify to the stress involved
as does the heightened risk of disease. (The British Uni;
versities Federation for Animal Welfare recently hired a
zoologist to study the behavior of hens under various con-
ditions and to design a cage that would have some natural
features including the possibility of escape from pecking
aggressors by passage into another nesting box.)

About 140 million cows, sheep and pigs are raised each
year, often in very constrained surroundings. (If one ig-
nores rats and mice, this is 100 such animals for every
animal involved in experimentation and 1,000 for every
animal involved in painful experimentation.) To take
one example, calves may live out their lives in boxes which
are, after the ﬁrst few weeks of life, too small to permit
them to turn around or even groom themselves. They
seek to ruminate but are permitted no roughage. Forced
to be anemic so that veal will have the right texture and
color, they are denied sufﬁcient iron and try to lick the
nails in their stalls.

In regulation of factory farming, the British are again
more advanced than we are. An act of 1968 makes it an
offense to cause “unnecessary pain or unnecessary distress”
to livestock. It has prohibited the docking of tails in
cattle, controlled it in pigs, and proscribed surgical castra-
tion of poultry.

The Brambell Committee whose recommendations led
to the act suggested ﬁve basic freedoms:

“An animal should at least have sufﬁcient freedom

of movement to be able without difﬁculty to turn

around, groom itself, get up, lie down and stretch its

limbs.”
It condemned debeaking of poultry, diets that precluded
full health and vigor, and close tethering other than for
short periods. Other nations have also gone further than
have we. In a number of Western European states, force
feeding is forbidden. And in Germany, owners of animals
must provide accommodation “which takes account of its
natural behavior”. According to the Animal Welfare In—
stitute’s Information Report, this is the ﬁrst example of
law which recognizes behavioral distress. [:1

WILDLIFE AND SPECIES EXTINCTION

Still a third area of potential animal abuse lies in cruelty
to wildlife and the threat of extinction of species. The best
survey of this problem lies in Lewis Regenstein’s The
Politics of Extinction (Macmillan, 1975). In the last four
centuries, species of birds and mammals have been dis-
appearing at a rate of about one every three years, and the
rate is increasing. Apparently the ﬁrst Siberian emigrants
to America, twelve thousand years ago, quickly extermi-
nated many species of large mammals. European immi-
grants to America stepped up the rate of extinction a few
hundred years ago. Today, the destruction of habitat vies
with hunters and trappers as principal causes for extinc-
tion. At existing accelerating rates, virtually all remaining
wild mammals would be gone in about thirty years.

Some reasonably recent losses include: Eastern elk,
Carolina parakeet, the heath hen, the passenger pigeon,
the Eastern timber wolf, the Merriam elk, the Badlands
bighorn and the virtual disappearance of the buffalo.

This books documents the extraordinary blindness of
pleasure hunters to the cruelty they inﬂict; the complete
absence of any challenge or danger in their “sport”; and
the extent to which hunters control and have subverted
major conservation organizations. Even the National
Audubon Society is afraid to oppose hunting. The Izaak
Walton League of America calls hunting a “valuable man-
agment tool”. The Wildlife Society recognizes sport hunt—
ing as “one legitimate and desirable use of wildlife re-
sources”. And the wave of abuse that ﬂood over any and
all who challenge the sports hunter’s desire to kill is aston-
ishing, and revealing.

The US. passed an Endangered Species Conservation
Act in 1969 but only after furriers inserted language in
the bill permitting their trade to continue until a species
was “commercially extinct”. Species can be put on the
endangered list only after they are threatened with “world—
wide” extinction. The bill had no Federal penalty for kill-
ing or capturing an animal in an endangered species. And
indeed, states sometimes give licenses to kill them anyway.
Even Federal exceptions are permitted “for economic
hardship”. And the Interior Department seems to have
a terrible record in enforcing the Act.

In 1973, an improved “Endangered Species Act of
1973” was passed but there remains question as to the
Vigor with which the Interior Department will enforce it.
(Endangered ocean species fall under a different Depart-
ment, that of Commerce, and the act is administered for
it by The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.)

In 1973, also, more than 80 nations agreed to an: “In-
ternational Convention on Endangered Species”. It speci-
ﬁes categories of, and regulates traffic in, those animals in
immediate danger of extinction, animals whose extinction
is threatened, and animals endangered within national
boundaries.

Wolves are a particularly maligned species. A marvel—
ously entertaining survey of their life appears in Never
Cry Wolf by biologist Farley Mowat who observed them
in their native haunts in Canada. The wolves have a rich
and affectionate family life—which would be consid-
ered quite predictable by any dog-owner. Nevertheless,
they are eliminated from the Eastern United States, mostly

—Continued on page 6

 

 




 

Page 6

Continued from page 5

eliminated in the West and under considerable pressure in
Alaska. One new threat in Alaska has been the depletion
of the caribou herd which has led the Alaskan game au-
thorities to permit shooting of wolves that would otherwise
deplete some of the caribou.

Grizzly bears are threatened with extinction in the
lower 48 states by ferocious hunting although, as anyone
knows who has seen them perform in circus or in zoos,
they are highly intelligent and affectionate animals. Prairie
dogs, cougars, wild horses and kangaroos are threatened
as well. -

Many smaller species are threatened with the steel—jaw
leg-hold trap. It clamps onto an animal’s paw much like
the slamming of a car door on a hand; the animal is
trapped and has, in desperation, been known to chew off
the limb. Otherwise it may die days or weeks later of

starvation. A bill has been introduced in the Senate
to end the use of these traps domestically and even to
ban related imports from countries that have not done
so. In the House, Congressman Glenn M. Anderson in—
troduced a bill (HR. 5292) to regulate trapping of
mammals and birds on Federal lands; it would approve
traps only if they were the “most humane capture method
available” for a given species. [j

WHALES: A CASE IN POINT

The US. has stopped commercial whaling and has
adopted legislation that puts pressure upon other nations
to accept the provisions of the International Whaling Com—
mission.* The US. has placed all eight major species of
great whales on the endangered list (of the Endangered
Species Act of 1969). It has also prohibited the import
of whale products hunted in violation of International
Whaling Commission rules. (A Pell amendment to the
Marine Mammal Protection Act permits embargoes of
products from foreign nations whose nationals conducted
ﬁshing operations that diminished the effectiveness of an
international conservation organization.)

U.S. nationals were engaging in non-commercial whal-

ing—the Alaskan natives (both Eskimos and Aleuts)
had been permitted an aboriginal exception to whaling
commission prohibitions for three decades. As noted in
the September Report, the Eskimos on the North Slope
of Alaska had taken 49 Bowhead whales last year and
had destroyed, but not captured, an undetermined further
number estimated at between 50 and 250. The rule of
thumb is that 10 to 15% of a whale population could be
taken each year without precipitating extinction; the spec—
ulative estimates on numbers of bowhead lie between 500
and 3,000. Thus comparing either low or high estimates
of take, versus available animals, suggests a danger of
extinction. The Eskimos should be urged to return to
using more traditional methods and to abandon the
shoulder gun.

At its 29th annual meeting, the International Whaling
Commission reduced whale quotas for the 1977-78 whal—
ing season from 28,050 to 17,839. It also withdrew the
exception requiring a full ban on the hunting of bowhead
whales. The Eskimos were very upset; one called the de—
cision “racist”. (Beside the Eskimos and Aleuts, the
*The commission includes: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,

Denmark, France, Iceland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Nor-
way, Panama, United Kingdom, U.S., S. U., and South Africa.

 

October, 1977

only other group taking whales under this exception were
the Enu of Japan.) The ban takes place on October 5,
after the fall. whaling season on the North Slope of Alas-
ka. The next meeting of the International Commission
occurs after the spring hunt.

The US. is accepting the ban for now but, inside at least
one government agency there is consideration being given
to asking for a limited quota exception at the 1978 summer
meeting. This would mean the Eskimos missed one spring
hunt. However, the President’s environmental message of
May 23, 1977, earlier had expressed strong support for
the International Whaling Commission making any equiv—
ocation diﬂicult.

Whaling has been a human activity for over a thousand
years. In the last century, ﬁve species were intensively
hunted, four of them almost to the point of extinction.
These species were chosen because oarsmen could over-
take them and because they ﬂoated when dead. FOur of
the ﬁve species were: baleen whales (so called because of
their enormous baleen substitutes for teeth), the bowhead,
the two right whales and the grey whales, all now the sub-
ject of the International Whaling Commission prohibitions.
The ﬁfth “toothed” whale was the sperm whale.

There is a great deal to be said for empathizing with
whales. The following is an excerpt from Regenstein’s
The Politics of Extinction:

“Whales are the largest animals that have ever lived
— and among the most intelligent. They are warm-
blooded, air—breathing mammals that nurse their
young and usually bear a single calf every two years
or so. It is thought that whales were once land mam-
mals, perhaps related to humans. Whale embryos
bear a striking resemblance to human features, and
whale ﬂippers contain the vestiges of hand bones.
Some species are thought to be monogamous, keeping
the same mate throughout life.

Roger Payne wrote in the October 1972 issue of
National Geographic Magazine that whale “courtship
involved much stroking and hugging of a female by
the males competing for her (but) with only one
male present, the female normally was quiet and
tender in her acceptance. The pair would hold each
other with their ﬂippers, belly to belly, while mating.”

Dr. Payne also noted the playful behavior of young
whales, which used strands of seaweed as toys, and
slid off and around their mothers’ tails. But even
mother whales have a limit to their patience. “Once,”
wrote Dr. Payne, “we saw a big female deftly roll
onto her back just as her mischievous calf was about
to ram her. She grabbed the youngster by clamping
the small of his tail to her side with a ﬂipper. He
wriggled and struggled and spluttered. When he had
calmed down, she slowly let him go.”

It is well known that whales are very protective of
one another, and will seldom desert a fellow member
of the herd that has been harpooned or wounded.
There are numerous recorded incidents in which a
whale has been harpooned or captured and taken to
shore, and its mate or family has followed it or waited
offshore for its return for days, even weeks at a time.
Whalers have taken advantage of the whales’ highly
protective nature by harpooning baby whales, towing
them into the whaling station on shore, and then
butchering the mother or even the entire family which
faithfully follows along. Male sperm whales (or
“bulls”), when threatened, form a protective ring

——Continued on page 7

 




 

October, 1977

 

Page 7

 

 

Current Estimates of Whale Stocks look something
like this:

Fin 107,000 Blue 12,000
Siei 101,300 Gray 11,000
Sperm 641,000 Humpback 7,250

Minke 300,000 Right 5,000
Bowhead — minimum of several hundred in East-
ern Arctic

 

 

 

Continued from page 6

around the females and calves. Asa result, such a

disproportionate number of male sperm whales have

been killed in recent years that the male-female ratio
has been severely upset. This could cause serious
problems in the ability to mate and reproduce.

Whales also seem well disposed toward man, and
students diving around whales and photographing
them have described the remarkable efforts whales
make not to harm their observers, although one ﬂick
of the huge tail could easily kill or cripple a human.
One who empathized with whales in quite a unique

fashion was Peter Freuchen, the famous Norwegian Arctic
explorer. In 1912, while descending into a crevasse by
rope, he became accidentally impaled upon his own har-
poon. In his Book of the Eskimos, he writes:

“ ‘So,’ I thought, ‘this is the way those animals felt
while I held the other end of the line, so proud of my
strength and markmanship.’ ”

Despite having had many other painful adventures — in-
cluding having to amputate his own frozen foot—Freu-
chen said that he had never spent a “more agonizing in-
terval” than that which was involved in this harpooning.
He ﬁnally was able to pull the harpoon out himself.

In terms of ratio of brain weight to body weight, eight
of the smaller species of whales are next to man. (The
larger species have a lower ratio because of their enor-
mous quantities of blubber which ﬂuctuates in mass ac-
cord to season. But it is entirely possible in any case that
sea-going mammals can control a larger body mass with
a ﬁxed brain size because of the buoyancy of the water
and the large mass of insulating fat.

As far as structure is concerned it has been. argued that
the whales’ brains are, in their cortex construction, in every
way comparable to that of the higher primates, and that,
according to Peter Morgane:

“the enormous surface of the whale cortex and its

luxuriant and highly convoluted appearance still ap-

pear to be sound arguments for considering the Ceta—
ceans as potentially intelligent and highly developed
fellow beings.”

Today, the US supports a ten-year moratorium on all
commercial whaling but has failed to secure a needed
three-fourths majority in the International Whaling Com—
mission. Recently, IWC adopted new and more precise
rules for limiting whale take in accordance with popula-
tion projects. And it beefed up its formerly part-time
“secretariat” to include a full-time employee, Dr. Ray
Gambell, who is a population biologist. However, Dr.
Gambell is not concerned about whale extinction. His
Nature article of August 9, “The Unendangered Whale”
concluded that:

“At all events, the future for the whales looks bright.

There is no danger of any of them disappearing

thrpugh overexploitation under the present con-

tro s . . .”

ANIMAL LIBERATION

The trumpet call in favor of greater respect for animals
was sounded most coherently in Peter Singer’s Animal
Liberation: A New Ethics for Our Treatment of Ani-
mals. It coined the phrase “Specieism” as a description
of the relevant analogue of sexism, racism, etc. And it
is clearly the best documented treatment of the general
issue.

But as to what rights animals either do or should have,
there is dispute. The basic problem is that our legal sys—
tem has not traditionally accorded animals any rights.
Under common law, animals had no rights even to avoid
needless pain. Anti-cruelty laws were originally formu-
lated in such a way as to argue that cruelty offended
human morality and constituted thereby a kind of public
nuisance. Domestic animals, according to a legal analysis
of Stephen I. Burr, were personal property subject to the

owner’s whim while wild animals were common property
to be exploited freely by whomever he wished unless the
state regulated otherwise.

The state anti-cruelty statutes remain the basic animal
protection law but they neither deﬁne “animal” nor
“cruelty”. Thus ﬁghts to the death by cocks armed with
spurs were adjudged permissible in the New Mexico Su—
preme Court, on the grounds that cockﬁghting was not
meant to be covered. It was also permitted by the Kansas
Supreme Court on the grounds that gamecocks were
“birds” not included in the phrase “any animal”.

In Environmental A ﬁairs, Burr proposed a model stat-
ute distinguishing between three classes of animals and
deﬁning cruelty more precisely, e.g., Class A animals
would be chimpanzees, gorillas or dolphins; Class B ani-
mals were to be mammals not in class A; class C animals
were vertebrates other than Class B or Class A.

Exploiting Existing Statutes

A second approach championed by Brooklyn Law
School Professor Henry Mark Holzer for the Society for
Animal Rights (SAR) has been to exploit all versions of
existing law. Professor Holzer believes there is no doubt
but that one could launch a “very respectable case against
inhumane practices using the right to standing of humane
societies and others using existing legislation.”

Appalled by the legislative and lobbying process, he
would seek to convince a handful of judges rather than
overlobbied representatives. As an analogy, he looks to
the NAACP’s successful court ﬁghts to secure equal rights
through litigation at a time when Southern opposition in
Congress made legislative advance impossible. As exam-
ples of his philosophy, he has joined with the Society for
Animal Rights:

a) to sue New York City to require the closing of
poorly equipped zoos in Central Park and Pros-
pect Park Zoos and to have the animals trans-
ferred to the more spacious Bronx Zoo. In its
struggle to get standing, SAR is now in the highest
New York State Court.

b) to sue to void the provisions of the Federal Hu-
mane Slaughter Act which permit orthodox Jewish
slaughtering practices. Because Jewish religious
law requires that animals be unharmed before
being killed, they preclude stunning the animal
before it is shackled and hoisted, and has its
arteries slit. (The Supreme Court held, however
that the special permission given this practice did

—Continued on page 8

 




Page 8

Continued from page 7
not violate the separation of church and state.)
c) to ﬁle an amicus brief on behalf of a four year
old German Shepherd who was subject to a New
Jersey ordinance requiring that animals which
“attack or bite or attempt to attack or bite” were
to be destroyed. Holzer argued that the law was
requiring a “cruel and unusual punishment”.
Interestingly, the approach of invoking existing legisla-
tion was the proposal of past NSMR President Maurice
B. Visscher when, in a Humanist editorial, he urged ap-
plying the state anti—cruelty laws for the “miniscule frac-
tion” of cases in which scientists had shown “carelessness”.
Legal Rights for Animals
The indirect champion of granting legal rights directly
to animals is USC professor Christopher D. Stone, whose
milestone work in this regard focused not on animals but
on trees. This work “Should Trees Have Standing?: To—
v~~~wardlLegal Rights for Natural Objects” was inspired, in
part, by difﬁculties the Sierra Club was having getting
standing to defend, in court, the aesthetic and ecological
balance of an area about to be licensed for development.
In it, Professor Stone described the rising consciousness
of man in which an ever widening scope of entities came
to be seen to have “rights”: slaves, women, children, fe—
tuses and so on. Nor were the objects of judicial interest
limited to humans or even to animate objects. Corpora-
tions have rights and recent laws protected the “environ-
ment” and referred to the “ecology”. When Justice William
0. Douglas quoted extensively from this work in a dissent,
momentum was added to what seems now to be a minor
but growing movement.
Surprisingly, there have been more cases attempted in
defense of inanimate objects (lakes, rivers, monuments,
and forest) than in defense of animals. A recent event
which might have raised some relevant issues occurred
in Hawaii when two 26—year—old assistants at a scientiﬁc
center for communicating with dolphins freed them, alleg-
ing that they were too intelligent to be held captive.
Charged with theft, they admitted the act but disputed
whether. they had a right to engage in it. (This case is a
perfect example, of course, of the way in which an animal
rights movement, and its related consciousness, could in-
terfere with fully legitimate and universally laudable de-
sires of the scientiﬁc community.)

FAS PUBLIC INTEREST REPORT (202) 546-3300
307 Mass. Ave., N.E., Washington, D.C. 20002

October, 1977

Primate medical experimentation has been dealt a
serious latent blow by the success of animal psychologists
in communicating with chimpanzees and gorillas. First
psychologists Allan and Beatrice Gardner established two-
way communication with a chimpanzee by using Ameri-
can Sign Language for the Deaf. In 1972, another animal
psychologist trained a gorilla Koko to the point where it
had a vocabulary of 300 words. A Seton Hall professor

in animal rights Theodore Sager Meth believes this gift of

language might have undermined the 200’s property rights
on the gorilla and established that Koko warrants some
kind of individual rights.

Obviously, it is no longer possible to ignore the fact that
animals have mental processes. And it seems likely that the
pride of place in non—medical issues of animal treatment
will eventually be taken by animal psychologists and ethol—
ogists (who study animal behavior with emphasis on evolu-
tionary adaptation) and away from veterinarians.

In a new book, The Question of Animal Awareness,
Donald R. Grifﬁn reviews the literature on this subject
and exposes the extreme reluctance of many philosophers
and behavioralists to admit what all pet owners know ——
that their pets have emotions and feelings. He advocates
participatory two-way experiments in which manipulated
animal surrogates (e.g. fake bees doing fake bee dances)
would establish beyond question the extent to which ani-
mals communicate (as bees are now known to be com-
munciating the distance toward food, and the type of food,
by their gyrations). In sociobiology, Edward O. Wilson
has begun to force the community to recognize that Dar-
winian descent means more than the physical resemblance
that animals may bear to one another but also implies
many behaviorial resemblances.

The vested psychic unwillingness of man to admit his
resemblance to lower animals must eventually fall before
the onslaught both of scientiﬁc advance and of rising social
conscience. In the light of this new consciousness, all of
the many ways, justiﬁed and unjustiﬁed, in which man
exploits his fellow animals will be reexamined. As this
time approaches, scientists ought not be aligned solely on
behalf of justiﬁed exploitation. And where exploitation
is required, as in illsliﬂ§d experimentation wgqughtjp .133.
able to show that a defense of theSe practices can coeXist
with the ongoing application of live compassion. E]

 

 

[:1 I wish to renew membership for the calendar year 1978.
[I I wish to join FAS and receive the newsletter as a full member.

Enclosed is my check for 1978 calendar year dues. (Cl I am not a
natural or social scientist, lawyer, doctor or engineer, but wish to
become a non-voting associate member.)

[I $20 D $50 El $100 CI $500 [1 $10
Member Supporting Patron Life Under $10,000

[3 Subscription only: I do not wish to become a member but would
like a subscription to:

El FAS Public Interest Report — $20 for calendar year

I] Enclosed is my tax deductible contribution of
FAS Fund.

NAME AN D TITLE

to the

 

Please Print
ADDRESS

 

CITY AND STATE

 

PRIMARY PROFESSIONAL DISCIPLINE:

 

 

 

 

As indicated on page I, FAS will attempt
to create a scientists' center for animal
welfare analogous to the British Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare (UF AW).

Persons interested in joining this center as
scientists--or becoming a sponsor of it sim—
ply as an interested citizen who wants such
an organization to come into existence--
should write to:

Jeremy 3. Stone, Director
Federation of American Scientists
307 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002

 

 

 

 

 

a...‘

,

 




 




'I‘his pamphlet is dedicated to the estimated 2

million owners of missing dogs and cats each
year which have not returned home. It is
especially dedicated to the animals themselves.

 

It is now eleven years sinre I last saw my German
Shepherd, ”Copper.”

He had followed me to the end of our road, a
red yarn bow tied to his collar, ears pricked, tail
wagging, joyfully ”seeing me off" on a morning's
trip for groceries.

Copper was with my husband the rest of the
morning. They returned to the house together at
ten minutes to twelve.

He did not greet me when I came home at
twelve noon.

We never saw Copper again.

 

That August day in 1974 was the start of
Action 81. I know only too well what you all
have suffered. It is real grief.

The empty food dish. The unused dog house
or cat bed. Night after night, waking and listening.
Was that the longed—for bark? Whine? Meow?

Home at last?

The endless calls to neighbors, animal wardens,
humane societies, sheriff and police departments,
school children. Calling the newspapers and radio.
The daily visits to pounds and shelters.

Was that the phone? Has someone found the
lost one? The flyers posted on trees, pinned to
supermarket bulletin boards. The pictures, taken
on some happy occasion, now part of the
anguished effort to find the missing dog or cat.

Nights are the worst. The feelings of despair,
anger, fear, and bitter tears.

Weeks go by, months, and then years. Hundreds
of letters and calls to Action 81 end with this
sentence of finality:

We never saw __ again.

 

Loss by death is painfully acceptable.

Loss by disappearance — theft— is
a form of agony.
It's so hard not to know.

 

So: what can be done to prevent future dis-
appearances — to make it harder for dog and cat
thieves?

No more free roaming unsupervised.
Never leave alone in car or yard.

Tattoo and register with National Registry
Spay or neuter '
Build high security kennels.

Lock doors to your house if pet is alone.

 

ACTION 81 CAN HELP!

Putting our grief to work to help others avoid
theft and unsolved disappearances of our pets is
one way we can help.

Some areas of involvement with Action 81:

Start a lost pet registry in your community.
Keep statistics on missing dogs and cats. Try to
assist owners. Action 81 will help you get started.
Statistics on breeds of missing animals, areas of
disappearance, and circumstances of theft are
vitally needed'for the Action 81 effort to expose
and curtail the nationwide organized theft of
dogs and cats.

ACTION I?! INC.

A lost pet registry is a wonderfully helpful
project for owners of missing pets to become
involved in. You will be talking to people who
are undergoing the same feeling you have. I
found that I could help and encourage because I
understood.

I found that it helped me cope with my loss‘I‘
Volunteer for a tattoo clinic.
Organize a Spay and Neuter Clinic.

Try to get your local newspaper to publish an
article on pet theft.

Work to elect honest‘and humane legislators at
all levels of government.

Support animal welfare legislation.

Inform your dog and cat clubs about theft and
ways to prevent it.

Encourage schools, scout groups, 4-H clubs, etc.,'
to stress the importance of teaching respon-
sible dog and cat ownership.

Talk it up. Inform everyone!

 

ACTION 81 IS NETWORK POWER!

Action 81 is a national network of individuals
and groups who want to stop the widespread
theft of dogs and cats.

It started with one person and one dog in
August, 1974.

Action 81 now extends across the United
States, even to Alaska, England and Germany!
The network includes concerned persons in:
legislatures, humane work, dog and cat clubs,
law enforcement, law, medicine, hunting, dog
and cat breeding, and veterinary professions.
The Action 81 network showed its strength in
the winter of 1981. It pushed a bill through the
Virginia legislature that prevents dealers from
other states from buying animals from Virginia

 




THE LICENSE THAT CAN NOT BE LOST.

Collar and tags can come off by accident or intention. Nothing
and no one can remove a TATOO A {351' number. No

matter how long ago your pet was stolen, you can prove
ownership with positive identification accepted In any court
of law.

WHY DOES IT WORK? Because we're Organized!

We’re the largest National Pet Identification Registration
and Recovery System. TATOO-A-PET has hundreds of
dealers in different cities who tattoo register animals. Most
valuable show dogs and hunting dogs are registered with
TATOO-A-PET Pet or show dog, The American Kennel
Club recognizes tattooing as permanent and legal dog ident-
ification.

Accept No Imitation

For The Love Of Your Pet .....

For The Life Of Your Pet ......

Let Us Give Your Pet Lifetime Security Today.
The fee is $20 for everything: The coded
number. . . Enscription on your pet's flank or
belly . . . Permanent registration of your num-
ber with TATOO-A-PET ®

Maintenance of that record for the life of
your pet. You pay only one $20 fee no matter
how many yearsyour pet is registered,

or the services are used.

Available at
Authorized Dealers and
Participating Veterinarians.

 

 

\

'l‘00-A-PE' ‘
“WORLDS LARGEST TATOO REGISTRY”

1625 Emmons Avenue 0 Brooklyn, N.Y. 11235
Suite 1H

(718) 646- 8200

SINCEI1972

 

Copyright 1978
TATOO- A- -PETTM All rights reserved

A/ K/A IDENT-A-PET ®

SINCE 1972

This Tottoo Means

“I LoveYou!”

“AS SEElV—O’NLTVH.

 

 

 

 

CATS TOO!

 




 

 

 

L j
GONE 1,000,000 BEST FRIENDS

each year. Lost collar, tag, whether lost, strayed or stolen,
the result is the same: You are without your pet. And
worse: your pet is without you. It is little wonder that
pet owners throughout the country are seeking a means

of positive protection for their pets. Tattoo Registration
provides that protection with positive and immediate
identification. Tattooing is safe, painless and provides
permanent low cost protection against loss, theft or
laboratory use.

HANDS OFF FOR DOG NAPPERS.

 

Thieves who hold pets for ransom, or those dognappers who
supply our nation’s vivisectionist and other labs don't want
to be caught with a “Marked Pet.” “Hotline"collar tags and
"Warning" decals provided to owners says ”Hands off” to
thieves. "I can be identified!"

 

r

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Tell A Friend” ,i"

Diggrs nt LOSt! I
Protection d
f0! DO“)! Cats

 

l

 

 

k
Now YOU CAN PROTECT YOUR PET.

The process is simple, fast, and economical. Utililizing a
modern and completely painless technique, a ore-coded
number is permanently enscribed on the pets belly or flank.
“This Tattoo means “l Love Youl’®The service is done by
our network of "Authorized Dealers” and Participating
Veterinarians.

While we prefer our numbercode and protection is instan-
taneous, we will register any number. AKC, UKC, Socual

_ Security, etc., by request for Special Registration form and

$10.00 lifetime fee.

AN UNREGISTERED TATTOO IS USELESS.

In addition, a low $25.00 KENNEL RATE is available to
owners and kennels for registration of 3 or more pets—no
limit. (cost will vary for tattooing with the amount of
animals being done at one time.)

(Special rates for Guide and Aid dogs,
Humane organizations.)

Founded 1972

Tim-A-PE' :.
A/K/A lDENT-A-PET®
“WORLDS LARGEST TATTOO REGISTRY”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

p C J J
THREE MINUTES IS ALL IT TAKES.
In three minutes your pet can be protected for life. Nation-

wide protection. If your pet is separated from your family.
lt needs help desperately-only you can save it. Do it Now!

 

 

Completely Painless!

 

TWENTY-FOUR HOUR
HOT LINE TRACES LOST PETS.

Since 1972, our round-the-clock 7-day-a-week HOT LINE
has reunited lost pets with their owners. We maintain
contact with pet authorities everywhere. Public and
Private agencies are instructed to examine pets for tattoo
numbers.

 

 

 

 

o J

THE PET WE SAVE MAY BE THE PET YOU LOVETM

 




