 

 

The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S.W.1.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

—

VOL. VIII. No. 6. JUNE, 1934. 2d. MONTH“;gi/ﬁ§:’mm"

 

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 42 WHIPSNADE AND FOXES.
KIDNAPPING OF A FARMER. 44 RECENT MEETINGS...

REMINISCENCES OF ERNEST BELL. BY HENRY
S. SALT. 45

 

Tie Editor accept: 720 respamz'éz'lz'ty for opim'm expresxed 2'72 Tigmd article's.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




 

Page Forty—two

CRUEL SPORTS

June, I934

 

 

VIE W5 AND NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

London Rodeo Protest: Urgent

A rousing Protest Public Meeting of the people
of London is to be held at The Central Hall,
Westminster, on Thursday, May 31st, at 8 p.m.,
to condemn the proposed Rodeo Show at the
White City in June and also all Films staging
“ Fights to the Death ” between animals.

The Rodeo Show is another attempt to foist this
Mexican-Texican iniquity as a “ New National ”
Sport on England and must be vigorously resisted.
We appeal to all who detest the project and the
spirit it stands for not only to rally to the meeting
on the 31st but to bring friends with them and so
compel an overﬂow meeting.

The speakers and supporters of the meeting
include—The Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind—of-
Hageby, Squadron—Leader the Marquis of Clydes-
dale, M.P., The Right Hon. Arthur Henderson,
M.P., Sir John Withers, M.P., Sir Robert Grower,
M.P., Captain V. A. Cazalet, M.P., Mr. Holford
Knight, K.C., MP., Mr. D. Gr. Somerville, M.P.,
Mr. \V. S.‘ Liddall, M.P., Capt. A. D. Mac-
Michael, Henry B. Amos, etc., etc.

Admission will be free; and all information
about reserved seats, etc., can be obtained from
The Animal Defence Society, 15, St. James’s
Place, London, S.VV.‘1.

Summer Campaign
\Ve wish to revert to the idea, announced in our

May issue, of having Garden Parties and other

Open-Air Functions on behalf of the League
during the summer and to stress their appro-
priateness as a means of supporting our work.
It does not need a large garden and the expenses,
in which the League would be glad to share,
would be small, chieﬂy the invitations and light
refreshments. The idea is along the lines of a
winter Drawing Room Meeting where a member
invites say 50 of her friends and neighbours to
meet one another, and, over a cup of tea, listen
to a short address, and, it may be, take part in
a game or two. There should be many opportuni-
ties for parties of this kind among our members,
and all friends prepared to co-operate with us
should communicate with the Secretary without
delay.

Hunts at Olympia

Hunts are never slow at adapting themselves
to new conditions so we must follow suit. One
illustration of the great efforts they are making
to stave off “ the evil day ” is to exhibit packs
of hounds at Agricultural and other Shows with

a view to strengthening their hold, which has
become very ricketty, on the public.

At the Royal Horse Show being held at Olym-
pia, London, from June 21st to the 30th, teams
representing several of the most famous Fox-
Hunts will combine to try and not only revive
some of the faded “ glories ” of this show but
also advertise themselves.

We too are also going to advertise them a little
but it will be their cruel evil deeds we will adver-
tise and not their gaudy and trumped up appeal
which only cloaks a spurious sport and species of
barbarism.

A leaﬂet has been specially prepared for dis-
tribution at and near the show, exposing the true
inwardness of all sorts of hunting, and helpers
are needed'to give them away. This service often
leads to interesting talks so that real propaganda
results. Those willing to help should write at
once to the Secretary as the time is short.

Otter-Hunting

The otter-hunting season is again in full splash
and with it the inevitable barbarity of hunting
the female otter and chopping her young. We
say “ chopping her young deliberately as many
cubs are killed by the hounds and terriers which
are never mentioned in the papers, through sheer
shame at the atrocities.

On their opening day, April 14th, the Hawk-
stone Otter-Hounds, killed, near Leintwardine,
on the river Teme, a female otter after two hours
hard hunting, during which time she repeatedly
returned to her original stronghold, where, no
doubt, she had been driven from her cubs.

On April 30th, the same pack, at Kentchurch
on the Monnow, hunted a female otter for 2 hours
20 minutes, but this time the quarry was able to
give the cruelty-mongers the slip, and, let us
hope, return to her young to share in that spirit
of joy expressed in the lines on fox—hunting by
F M. Dent, entitled “ The Home in the
Spinney,” in another column.

Badger-Digging

The Staffordshire Otter Hounds held a
“ Badger-Dig ” towards the end of April which
“ M.W.”, the Hunt correspondent, states was
“ a tremendous success.” The diggers were con-
siderably augmented by “ limbs of His Majesty’s
Forces, and judging by the amount of earth
shifted by these fellows in less time than it takes
to type we should have plenty of earth-works to
retire to during the next war!” After the ﬁrst
badger had been “ comfortably housed,” he adds,

 

 

 




 

 

 

1934

June,

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Forty—three

 

6‘

another was dug out after a lot of trouble and
time and proved to be the cat of an adjacent
farmer” !

Some of our readers may ask what happens to
the badgers dug out? Many things can happen
to them, but we cannot imagine several" people
spending several hours in digging them out
without some ulterior motive in keeping with the
cruel scheme and spirit of their dig.

Perhaps the statement sent to the Editor some
years ago by a lady in \Vilts who had taken part
in many digs, answers the question. The chief
object in digging out badgers, she said, was to
stage a worry in a pig’s sty or other enclosure by
young fox-hounds, and so savage them for their
job of worrying foxes later in the season, which
is a very likely explanation.

“ Fox—Hunting Finance ”

Under this title, ‘ M.F.”
Country Life recently.

“If we are not mistaken,” he wrote, “ the
Cottesmore, the VVarwickshire, and the Bicester
Fox-Hunts have lately been giving their Masters
£6,000 a year.”

“ Prodeegius ” an Aberdonian might have
said, especially if he remembered that we got our
Prime Ministers f01 not much more. And not
f01 a half- time job either like an M F. H., which
is, as Jorricks would say, mostly beer and
vittles, but for a seven-day a week, fourteen

 

had an article in

hours a day man. with kicks and brick-bats
thrown in.
When! Oh, when! will the British Public

wake out of its sleep and crush this stupid,
callous squandermania; a menace to rural well-
being, an“ insult to humanity?

Fitzwilliam Finance

“ MF.” has a word in his article about the
Fitzwilliam Hunt which ﬁgured in the Peter-
borough “ Sportsman’s ” Service, noted in our
March issue.

“ we have been told.”s says “ M. F., ” “ that
the Cheshire Hunt . up to 1931 used to
spend £8 000 a year in poultiy claims. On the
othe1 hand the Fitzwilliam has no machinery
for paying poultiy claims. If anyone thinks he
has been badly treated by the foxes, he can
have a. hen or two from Milton ” (the residence
of the M.F.H.).

\Nhat a cheap, supercilious way of dealing
with what, after all, is a serious national prob-
lem! But it is in keeping with the reply noted
in our journal some months ago of a Fitzwilliam
member, who on being asked if he requested
farmers to take down wire during the hunting
season, said, “ No! we tell them.”

We know farmers are a docile lot, but we did
not think they were such slaves as all this.

Anzmals’ Welfare Week

A few weeks prior to Animals’ Welfare Week the
Secretary of the League circularized nearly one
hundred Animal Welfare Groups all over the
country, offering to supply them with literature
for the celebration. The following Groups
availed themselves of the offer :——Brighton and
Hove, Carlisle, Church Stretton, Croydon, Felix-
stowe, Huddersﬁeld, Nottingham, Reading,
Rugby, Southampton, Southport, Swindon and
VVarrington.

At Croydon, the League was represented in
the Procession organised by the local Group, and
the Secretary spoke at one of their open- air
meetings.

To all A.W.W. organisers and others who
helped to promote the Cause of the animals i11-
treated for “ sport ” during the Week we tender
our grateful thanks.

THE HOME IN THE SPINNEY

I never knew so sweet a joy,
Until I had a mate;

And little cubs, yet unperturbed,
About a fox’s fate.

But while my ﬂuffy, bright-eyed young,
Light— hearted frisk, and free;

Their father roams the ﬁelds to ﬁnd,
Food for his family.

He crept away a while ago,
To brave the foes around;
And ever since, in fancy keen,
I hear a dreaded sound;
The cruel arpeggios of the horn,
A sound I fear and hate;
For hounds and huntsmen then are out,
To kill, perhaps, my mate.

Oh! have they met this very day,
Those riders gay and smart?

And do they know there waits for him,
An anxious, faithful heart?

For if he live not through the day,
My little ones may die;

Cannot the mother of a
Feel for such as 1?

man

A gleam of red—he comes at last!
He brings us morsels sweet;

He looks on proudly while with joy,
We gather round to eat.

My home is safe, my babes content,
Our little lives are blest;

The night is here, the sport is o’er,
My world is now at rest.

F. M. Dent.

 

 




Page Forty-four C R U E L

SPORTS

June, l934

 

 

KIDNA PPING OF A -~
FA RMER

Masked Men Who Blew Hunting-Horn

A midnight kidnapping affair during the week-
end, of which Mr. John Tho-mas Chalmers, a
farmer, of Newton Valence, near Alton, Hamp-
shire, was the victim, is being investigated by the
Hampshire police. Mr. Chalmers farms Nore
Hill Farm, near Selborne.

Describing his experiences, Mr. Chalmers gave
the following extraordinary details:

“ My kidnapping was well planned. Following
the loss of 176 fowls from my farm since I came
here under two years ago, I have been active in
trying to suppress the foxes in my neighbourhood.
My farm is surrounded by spinneys, in which
there are numbers of foxes which do considerable
damage.

“ On Friday morning,” he continued, “ a man
called on me and asked if I would like to buy a
fox skin. I said that I would if it was not too
dear, and he said I could have it for half a crown.
I arranged to meet him at 9 pm. on Friday near
a railway arch at Hedge Corner, some miles from
my home. I went there in my car, accompanied
by one of my farm labourers.

“The man was waiting for me, and asked me
to walk with him to a spot where he had hidden
the skin. Up to this point his story had been
plausible enough, because it does not ‘pay’ in a
hunting country to let it be known that one is
a party to the. killing of foxes.

“We reached a lonely spot, and he produced a
bag out of which he took a fox’s skin. Although
it was dark I saw that the skin had in fact been
made into a rug. and then I had a premonition
that there was something wrong.

Armed With Sticks

“ Before I had time to do anything three heads
appeared over a bank. The men were wearing
goggles and masks. I made a dash for it, but
another-four heads appeared also in masks and
goggles, and the crowd, armed with big sticks,
rushed at me, and knocked me out. I was thrown
to the ground, and something was tied over my
head.

“ My legs and arms were bound,” continued
Mr. Chalmers, “ and I’was thrown into a big
saloon car.

“ The men were in high spirits, and as we drove
away one of them blew a hunting horn, while
another shouted, ‘Here’s luck to the foxes.’

“We drove for what seemed hours, and ﬁnally
the car was stopped. I pretended all along to be
unconscious. I was lifted out and then a large

 

quantity of beer was thrown over me. My bonds
were cut. I lay still and the car went off.

“ I then got up, and, after wandering about,
came to the village of Harting, in Sussex. I
knocked at the door of a hotel and the landlord
telephoned for the police.

“ It was then just after midnight. I was badly
bruised about the ribs and the shoulders.

‘ “ I am not opposed to hunting,” Mr. Chalmers
added, “ but I do resent the loss of so many
fowls in such a short time. I have had a hard
struggle to make my farm pay since I came here.”

When the police went with Mr. Chalmers to
the spot he described, they found a number of
sticks and other articles. It is understood that
the police have interviewed six men.

“ The Morning Post,” May 14.

FARMERS SHOOT FOXES
Shins Sold £1 Apiece

Are farmers entitled to shoot foxes in preference
to conserving them for the local Hunt i’

In the country of the famous Garth Hunt—
parts of Berkshire, Hampshire, and Surrey a
sort of private war between two farmers and the
Hunt has been raging on the question.

These are the protagonists’ own stories. Major
Sir Herbert Cayzer, M.I’., Joint Master of the
Garth, says:

“ The shooting of foxes has been going on for
years. Land is wired round to keep the Hunt
out, and the farmers concerned are not even con-
tent to shoot their own foxes. Only last week,
for instance, hounds chased a fox on to their land,
and one of the farmers had two shots at it. He
has offered to show me the skins of the foxes he
has shot.”

The Other View

Now for the other side, as represented by
Messrs. Sidney and Edgar Mogridge, brothers
who have adjoining farms at Newnham, near
Basingstoke, Hampshire. Mr. Sidney Mogridge
said:

“ \Ye have warned the Hunt against coming
on our land, but they persist in doing so. \Ve do
not send in any claim for damage done by foxes
or' by the Hunt when they go through our wheat
——we do not want anything to do with them. A
fortnight ago I shot a .fox with the pack in full
cry behind it. I had another shot last week, but
missed. Recently the Vine Hunt came on to

 

our land after a fox. I shot it—the hunt followers
were wild.”

Mr. Mogridge said that he sells the skins of all
the foxes he shoots—on the average about 30 a
_ “ Daily Mail.”

year—for £1 apiece.

 

 

 

 

 

Q




 

 

 

‘L

o 0

June, 1934

CRUEL SPORTS

Page-Forty-seven

 

RECENT MEETINGS

Mr. J. W. Harris, a Finchley member of the
League, addressed the Bowes Park Brotherhood
on the subject of Cruel Sports, with special
reference to the work of the L.P.C.S. About 90
were present and much interest was shewn in
the subject. _

Mrs. Winifred McWhan, a Glasgow member of
the League, delivered an interesting lecture on
“ The Passing of Blood Sports ” to the members
of the Society of Friends’ Adult School, .which
was much appreciated.

The Poplar Parliament Debating Society
debated the proposition “ That Blood Sports in
General, and More‘Especially the Hunting of
Animals, are Undesirable.” The motion was
carried by 12 votes to 1.

The \Vorksop Debating Society discussed the
motion “ That Blood Sports should be Abolished
by Law.” The motion was proposed by Mr. J -
McLeod, and Mr. T. Kitchen replied for the
opposition The voting resulted in a win for the
proposition by a majority of 5.

Mr. Henry Collett read a paper on Cruel Sports
before the Cross Keys Debating Society at the
house of the President, Dr. Charles Sampson, the
well-known psychologist. All Blood Sports were
dealt with and condemned by the speaker, both
from the economic and the moral standpoints.
An interesting discussion followed.

At. the King Edward’s School for Girls, Hands-
worth, Miss H. F. Cooper read a paper on “Blood
Sports” and established a strong case, which was
carried “nem con” at the end of the meeting.

At the Slough Secondary School, the motion
that “ Hunting is Cruel ” was debated. On the
proposition of Mr. H. F. Scurr, 72 per cent. of
the audience voted in favour of the resolution.

At the Bemrose School, Derby, Mrs. Nesbitt
Wood, a local member of the League, gave an
address on “Blood Sports” to 44 of the Fellows of
the Forms V and VI, who listened with great at-
tention and interest. A month later a discussion
took place when interesting speeches were made
on the motion that “ Blood Sports should be
Abolished.” The occasion was the School’s
Annual Hobbies Exhibition. The audience con-
sisted of about 800 people—~boys, parents and
friends. Unfortunately time did not allow for a
vote to be taken, but the judge awarded the high-
est marks to two speakers who were in favour
of the motion.

The Fourth Form Debating Society of the
County School, VVeston-super—Mare, debated the
motion: “ Should Blood Sports Be Abolished?”

ﬁ
ﬁ

It was unanimously decided that blood sports
should be abolished, by 36 votes to nil.

Sir Boy Wilson presided at a debate promoted
by the Byﬂeet and Pyrford branch of the Junior
Imperial League. Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Freakers
moved that “ Blood sports in this country should
be abolished,” and the motion was opposed by
Miss Ruth Oldacres and Mr. C. B. Locock.
After free discussion, the motion was carried
by 14 votes to nine.

The West of Scotland devotees of hunting had
novel sport in the form of a successful drag-
hunt from Cloberﬁeld Stables, Milngavie, and the
Glasgow H erald shows a picture of the hunt lead-
ing off. '

9(- * * 9(-

Bramham Hunt Protest

A protest demonstration against hunting was
organised at one of the best attended meets of
the season held by the Bramham Moor Hunt
at \Vescoe Hill.

The protest was arranged by the members of
the Leeds Branch of the League. About a
score of demonstrators attended the meet, dis-
played banners and distributed literature.

Just before the ﬁeld moved off, under the
direction of the Master, Major the Hon. Edward
Lascelles, the demonstrators displayed their
banners, the largest of which bore the device,
“ Sport or Cruelty?” Other smaller banners or
posters read, “Why not the Drag Hunt?”;
“ Dare you drop the Sport?”; “ Adopt the Drag

Hunt, and make your Sport clean ”; “ Would
you rather be hunted for hours or shot in—
stantly?”; “ Would Christ kill for fun? Then

adopt the Drag Hunt and become true Chris-
tians ”; “ In the breeding season cubs starve to
death if you kill the parent foxes ”; and others,
which bore sayings by the Archbishop of Can-
terbury, the Bishop of Ripon, and also Dean
Inge denouncing blood sports.

The League urges that the Drag Hunt would
sweep ’away all those cruel features which make
blood sports so objectionable to sensitive and
reﬂective people, such as the long drawn out
terror of the animal hunted; the end, when the
creature, with lolling tongue and drooping head,
is “ dead beat ” and is worried to death by dogs.

* * * *

BOURNEMOUTH: Quiet, restful rooms near pine
woods, parks, links, and within ten minutes of
sea. Would suit elderly couple; moderate terms
for permanency. Recommended by Mr. Amos.—
Apply Miss Windsor, King’s Park Road, Bourne—
mouth.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page Forty—eight C R U E L S P O R T S June, l934

 

 

THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF

CRUEL SPORTS
lOl, Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l.
Phone : Victoria 8496.

Hon. Treasurer— Secretary——
CANON F. L. DONALDSON. J. C. SHARP.

 

 

V: ce-Presidents—

LADYVCLARE ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. 1?. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.

iigqﬁﬁgglgﬂuﬂm- 1 q . DAME LOUISA 1NNEs LUMSDEN. hENRY W- NEVINSON, ESQ-
“ I ' ‘ Y Av r. .3. . .1. -1 . T ‘

ALD M 03“,“??? R ’00 I‘lt’ LL-D- (hdlnburgh)- BEVERLEY MCHOLS, qu.
(Ex-Pres., Nat. Un. Toms), LADY EMILY LUTYENS. EDEN'PHILEPOTTS, Esq.

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD, Esq. .lz’ER01 A- bCHOLF-S, ESQ-

G- P- GOOCH, DLitt. _ (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic CL). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKF. .

 

 

 

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suﬂering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”!

IT CONDEMNS fox deer, hare, and otter-hunting, badger—digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. ( See leaﬂet “Blood Sports Condemned”)

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds Without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation ( See
leaﬂet “ Blooded.” )

 

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Group, etc., if out-of—pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
available.

JOIN THE LEAGUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith" ................. .. ............................

State
Whether
Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss. ....................
‘*5/- per annum includes OﬂiCIalTournalmonthly Wlthoutthe Journal, 2/6,LifeMembers [5. ........
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S., 101, Chandos chse, Westminster, S.W.I.
FORM OF BEQUEST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :— ‘

I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL SPORrs, Iondon, the sum
of .............................. free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society. _
By virtue of the Act of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, 'Palmer Street,
Westminster. S.W.1.. and Printed for them by NUNFATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD.. Bond Gate. Nuneaton.

 

 




