>4 Ways of Kindnessy

expected to report cases of cruelty to animals which they see or know about.

This is a mistake. Those who are not members, as well as those who are,
should notify the nearest humane agent or police ofﬁcer when they know of the
abuse or suffering of any animal. All communications are conﬁdential.

If you know of a horse that is not properly taken care of, or is kept in a cold or
dirty stable, or is worked when lame or very old, tell the humane ofﬁcer about the

sOME people think that only those persons who belong to a Humane Society are

case.
If you know of a dog, chained all the time without exercise, or one without water

0r proper shelter, tell the humane ofﬁcer about the case.
If you know of a cat not well fed or cared for, tell the humane ofﬁcer abOut the

case.
In some cases it might be better ﬁrst to speak to the owner yourself, or write a

kind letter.

The law says that: No animal may be starved or abused. No horse beaten or
overloaded, and it punishes those persons who are cruel. to animals. The law against
cruelty includes the cruel abandoning of animals.

In Massachusetts”< please report all cases of cruelty or neglect to Mass.
Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
Mass. Telephone, Brookline 6100.

Will you put up a sign

HORSES CAN GET A DRINK HERE?

It has beens suggested that when the watering troughs are shut off to prevent
spread of glanders kind- hearted persons should keep a pail ready to ﬁll with water for
horses whenever a driver would like to give his horse a drink.

If a sign were put up in front of the house then the driver would know where he
would meet with kindness. Let us help the horses and drivers.

Remove the harness from a horse on a hot day whenever you desire to give him
full rest, and always once during the day. A thorough grooming will rest the animal
and improve his condition .

Give your horse three good meals daily, a stall large enough t lie down in at
nlght, and at least two weeks vacatlon each year); 444/ a.

 

 

vention of Cruelty to Animals, 17 Exchange Street, Providence, R. I., Tele-
phone Union 321.

 




 

Dipping the bits in cold water on a frosty morning 'ill prevent them from taking
the skin off the horse’s mouth.

If a horse is afraid of anything soothe him with kind words. If you whip him
he has two things to be afraid of.

You should treat your horse as you would like to be treated were you a horse.

i...» KEEP YOUR cows CLEAN

Many persons do not realize the importance of giving cows a thorough brush-
ing every day. It will keep the skin clean and healthy, prevent disease, and well
repay the labor bestowed, besides making the cow more comfortable and contented.
A stiff brush made of broom corn is the best. Horses, when out at pasture, should
also be frequently brushed.

Cattle need shade in hot weather. If the pasture has no shade trees, erect sup—
ports, across which place straw or grass; thus making shade in which animals can
rest from the heat of the sun.

It is very important to keep a cow in healthy condition. The quality of the milk
depends upon the amount and quality of the food the cow receives, and the care and
condition of the place where she is kept. The barn or shed should be well ventilated
and have plenty of light and air. The cow barn should be warm in winter and when
thaweather is pleasant the cows should be turned out in the sunshine for an hour
or vo.

Be Careful Never to Frighten a Cow. She is a very nervous animal and
' should be treated with gentleness. Boys should never chase or allow dogs to chase
. a cow. It not only hurts the cow, but injures the quality of the milk. A cow should
always have plenty of fresh water to drink. In the winter the chill should be taken
off the water.

Never fasten a cow to the back of a wagon unless you are careful not to let the
horse go faster than a walk. A cow should never be hurried.

A Dog Must Have Freedom
and Exercise or he cannot be well
and happy. If your dog must be
chained a part of the time, fasten
a wire from the corner of your
house or barn to a tree or a post
or between two trees. This wire
may be thirty feet long. Suspend
from the wire a_chain or leather
strap by a ring which must be
large enough to run easily on the
wire. The other end of the chain
must have a fastening which can
be attached to the dog’s collar,
then he can run up and down the
length of the wire and get some
exercise, and also get into the shade when the sun is hot. It should be so arranged
that the dog can get up or lie down or run without danger of being tangled in the chain
or leach.

During the summer months be sure and provide some spot for the kennel that
is shady during the entire day. An excellent plan is to have the kennel raised on
posts high enough from the ground for the dog to crawl under. Close the space all

 

GIFT
MRS. M. C. JSRDAN

as: 1‘... ‘1'
.~' .\.‘
u :

“4’: '5.
JUN 35’ m7 "




around, leaving only a place big enough for the dog to go in. This will make a cool
retreat away from the ﬂies, which will be most thoroughly appreciated by our friend.
A dog also likes a cool drink; keep the dish of water out of the direct rays of the sun
and ﬁll with fresh water at least three times a day in hot weather.

Never tease or torment a dog. It is likely to make him ill-tempered. If you
treat a dog well, he is one of the best friends you can have.

All persons keeping fowls should
know that the coops should be changed
occasionally, as the earth becomes poison'
ous, and injures the health of the fowls.
Always supply fowls with plenty of clean
water. The practice of carrying fowls
with their heads downward and their feet
tied together is very cruel and in most
cases is an offense against the law and
punishable by ﬁne.

 

DO NOT SHUT OUT YOUR CAT AT NIGHT 5/

Cats that are about a neighborhood in the night are a great disturbance to light
sleepers and persons who are ill. They .are in danger of being attacked by dogs, and
in the early morning they may catch the birds that are getting breakfast for their
young. No one should keep a cat who is not willing to take some trouble to have it
well cared for.

People who go away in summer and leave their cats to suffer are guilty of great
cruelty. A cat that has once had a hone is quite unﬁt to take care of itself. It will
suffer and perhaps die from hunger, thirst and loneliness. There is a law against
abandoning animals, and the people who do this should be reported for breaking a
law. .

If you cannot take care of your cat, or the hungry cats in your neighborhood,
send for the agent of an Animal Rescue League, or of a Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals to dispose of them humanely.

A starved cat does not make a good mouser. Feed your cat well.

Do not put a ribbon ora collar on your cat’s neck. Cats have been caught on
fences, bushes and limbs of trees by these collars and have not been able to free them—
selves. They have been known to strangel to death.

Much needless suffering would be prevented if but one of every litter of kittens
were left to live, for it is hard to ﬁnd good homes for them. Save one male kitten
for the mother cat, otherwise she may suffer.

Cats are intelligent and affectionate and respond quickly to kind treatment. They
care more for persons who are kind to them than for their homes.

 

The pig is not only one of the most intelligent, but naturally the cleanest of all
of our domestic animals.

Filthy surroundings, garbage, and other impure food and lack of exercise are
responsible for most of his diseases.

Sunshine, clean food, pure air and water, comfortable and dry quarters, a wide
range, clover pasturage, if possible, all these are required to keep swine in a healthy
condition. Unless these can be provided, no one should attempt to raise them, neither
should any one do so who has not a liking for the animal.

Swine should not be kept under a stable, or in any cellar, or other dark, damp
place. '

, - ~ ‘0 «~—
/ ’3" M if 1 ,w- ,1 V‘
.‘ i . 'K i ,' / f’
. 7 ’ 1.x M I.
-~—/

 




The FOLLOWING RULES WILL BE FOUND USEFUL IN THE CARE
OF SWINE.

Avoid crowding too many pigs together.

Avoid giving foul and unwholesome food.

Feed at regular intervals, twice per day, except brood—sows and growing pigs
which/should be fed three times daily.

Cleanse the troughs previous to feeding.

The food should be given warm, neither cold nor hot.

Vary your bill of fare.

Do not neglect to keep your swine clean, dry and warm.

MEAT AND FISH CANS

Do not throw out empty cans that have had any kind of food without beatin
them ﬂat. Cats and dogs have got their heads caught in these empty cans when
seeking food and have been cruelly injured, or have died before they were
released.

WATER THE DOG. WATER THE CAT.

Be sure to place a dish of fresh water where your dog or cat can easily reach it
Dogs and cats often suffer for lack of it.

WATER THE HORSE. Water the chickens. Have something to hold the
water—not to tip over and spill it. Hens need water all day long in summer days.
Water is cheap. But care is not cheap. It costs thought.

he steel trap and other traps largely used by rabbit-catchers and game-keepers

h ve been well described at abominable devices, both as a means of indiscriminate

estruction and as instruments of torture“ most horrible, for not only do the sharp

teeth by which the Victim is held and lacerated cause excruciating pain, but this pain

4is often prolonged for days and nights together until the keeper or some passer- by
\may happen to visit the spot and put the sufferer out of its misery.

Do not throw bottles, broken glass, nails or cuttings from tin into the street. Many Qf/ ﬂ/
horses may be wounded and spoiled by this thoughtlessness.
Children with bare feet or broken shoes may be badly injured by this means. 4% %
ass

Horses and dogs have been lamed and have suffered by slipping on broken gl
or rusty nails.

WE BELIEVE THAT IT ISHW
FAIRER to train a child to do right.
EASIER to cultivate good habits than to remove bad ones. ,
CHEAPER to prevent the crimes than to cure the criminal.
BUSINESSLIKE to form character, instead of trying to reform it.
TEACH YOUR CHILDREN TO BE KIND TO ALL ANIMALS.
Children should be taught to be kind to all animals. A cruel child makes a bad
man or woman.
One of the important things to teach children is to take good care of their house-
hold pets; to remember to feed and water them regularly.
We are only doing right when we treat every living creature as we would wis
to be treated ourselves. If you drive a horse or own a horse, think how you would
like to be treated if you were that horse. Treat your dog and cat as you would like
to be treated if you were that dog or cat.
Make the world happier because you have lived in it. M
Publlshed by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue ‘éé‘e/ i

Boston, Mass. Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.
Price, 6 cents per dozen, or 50 cents per hundred, postpaid.

 

 

 

 




