SNAKE- POISONING

ANTI-VENOM SERUM

By M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

 

NE of the claims made on behalf of the use of experimental
0 animals in the treatment of human disease relates to the
efficacy of antitoxic serum as a remedy for snake-bite.

Largely because the question is rarely of any practical importance
in this country clinical data are not readily obtainable, but the fol—
lowing considerations will enable the reader more easily to
appreciate at their true value such claims as are made as to the
merits of this product of the research laboratory and the manufac-
turing chemist—claims, it must never be lost sight of, the glowing
nature of which is undoubtedly dictated by considerations connected
with the profit—making firms which manufacture the serum.

For, as Dr. George Wilson stated in a Presidential address to the
State Section of the British Medical Association as long ago as l899:
“ The whole bacteriological practice is steeped in commercialism.”1

THE DIFFICULTY OF OBTAINING STATISTICS

No one will dispute that Sir Leonard Rogers is one of the greatest
authorities in the world on the subject of snake-bite, or that he is in
favour of the use of the serum; yet he confessed in l933:

“ It is also extremely difficult to get any reliable statistics on the
efficacy of antidotes. Even when we have treated a patient
immediately he has been bitten we are often not sure whether he
would not have recovered Without the aid of treatment.”2 ‘
This impossibility of comparison with controls was referred to by

Sir Almroth Wright in an address before Charing Cross Hospital
Medical School on the subject of “Immunity” in l932, when he
stated that “all that a doctor could do was to form a general
impression from his memory of what happened in one case
after another.”

The following two reports by the “Zoo Correspondent" of the
Observer, June l3, 1937, illustrate very clearly this difficulty. The
first reads:

“ Dr. Burgess Barnett, Curator of Reptiles and an exponent of
the recent uses of snake venom in medicine was himself bitten on
the left hand by a specimen of the night viper. Thanks to immedi-
ate treatment with anti-venom serum, the patient is making a good
recovery.”

The second report in the same article reads:

“ The late Frank Buckland, who was the Zoological Society’s
honorary Surgeon, was dissecting a rat that had died from cobra

 




 

poison, and scratched the inside of the rat with his thumb nail.
Within an hour or so he showed all the symptons of cobra pmson-
ing. A few days, reét restored him to normal health.

It would surely have been equally logical to have added: “ thanks
to no treatment with anti-venom serum.” ‘

It is a primary error to assume that moét or even a large proportion
of snake bites end fatally. The natural mortality of persons bitten
by venomous snakes is given variously as from 30 to 75 per cent.

THE DEATH-RATE EXAGGERATED

Sir Leonard Rogers, previously quoted, said in regard to this:
“The death-rate from snake bite in India is very high, but not
as high as Stated in this return. Many natives think they or their
children are suffering from snake bite when their illness may
. have been due to some other cause . . . I myself know of a case
where the natives thought the cause of death was snake bite, but
an autopsy showed that death was due to pneumonia.”

THE DIFFICULTY OF HAVING A SERUM HANDY

Here again, Sir Leonard Rogers confessed:

“ I tried for many years to find means of alleviating the awful
death rate from this scourge. \Ve prepared serums and antidotes,
but the difficuly was to treat the patient in time. Some snakes,
such as cobras, are moét deadly, and if the antidote is not applied

0

almost immediately the patient dies.”‘

SERUMS SPECIFIC FOR EACH SPECIES OF SNAKE

Even if a hOSpital happens to be near, and in India not more than
one person in fifty lives within fifty miles of one, “when a person,
especially a native of India, is bitten by a snake, he is rarely able to
tell the species of snake which has inflidted the bite.”3 Moreover,
in any case the snake may have crawled away unobserved, or have
bitten in the dark.

As long ago as I904 the theory advanced by Calmette that the
venoms of all snakes were similar was proved to be entirely without
foundation, and “specificity was definitely settled.”3 So that “at
the very outset we are met with the almost unsurmountable diffi-
culty that only the specific antiserum must be used in any case of
snake-venom intoxication.”3

Attempts to manufacture a polyvalent serum applicable to all
varieties of snake-bite have not been followed by any convincing
evidence of utility, and, in fact, “ are impractible owing to the
extreme toxicity of mixed venoms.”

At the same time, as regards the availability of separate serums,
“the difficulties in collecting the poisons of the different species of
snakes in sufficient quantities for purposes of immunisation are
apparently very great.”3

ENORMOUS DOSES OF SERUM REQUIRED

According to George Lamb, lVI.D., of the Pasteur Institute of
India, we should have to inject 350 cubic centimetres of serum intra-

ll’-‘




ii‘o.

venously or from 3500 to 7000 cubic centimetres subcutaneously in
order to save the life of a patient.”3

A UNIVERSAL ANTIDOTE

In his lecture to the Research Defence Society on June 22, I933,
Sir Leonard Rogers declared: “ permanganate of potash mixed with
the venom of any snake renders it inert.”

In their final Report (I912) the Royal Commission on Vivisection
declared: '

“Sir Lauder Brunton directed our attention to a method of
treating snake poisoning by the application of permanganate of
potash, the efficacy of which against the poison of all
venomous snakes when properly applied is said to have
been conclusively demonstrated.” (p.42)

This well—known and well-tried remedy possesses none of the
disadvantages of serum treatment. It is easily carried in the pocket
in the form of crystals or special lancets containing them which the
Extra Pharmacopoeia (Martindale & Westcott, I7th Ed. p. 537)
describes as “ equally good in all kinds of snake bite."

In addition, it is cheap and readily obtainable at Stores and can
be applied by anyone without special training, unlike the serum
which, even if it could be carried on the person, needs to be skilfully
injected with a special syringe. Moreover, it is not subject to rapid
deterioration either through lapse of time or change of temperature
as is serum3 and. unlike the latter, is unattended by the danger of
anaphylacftic shock or by those unpleasant forms of serum-sickness
to which sera so frequently give rise.

Sir Leonard Rogers himself speaks highly of the practical value
of permanganate of potash, for he was able in two years to record
ten recoveries out of twelve cases of persons proved to have been
bitten by deadly snakes and treated with it.

It should hardly be necessary to add that in any case the usual
attempts to reétridt the activity of the poison by ligature and, if pos-
sible, excision should accompany the use of the permanganate of
potash.

There is reason to believe that had reliance been placed more
upon the universal application of this remedy than upon that of
serum or anti-venom obtained from the blood of poisoned horses
the death-rate would have been still further reduced.

A NATURAL MEANS OF PREVENTION

Another means of reducing the toll of deaths from venomous
snakes would be to cease the ruthless destruction of their natural
enemies, such as lizards and other animals whose skins are now
extensively sought after in response to the dictates of feminine
fashion.

THE CLAIMS OF HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICINE

The homoeopathic system of therapeutics claims success with
many snake—poison antidotespone of the chief of these being

 




Golondrina,-prepared from Euphorbia Polycarpa, which is said
to render the body immune to snake venom, and therefore may be
regarded as a valuable prophyladtic.5

Boericke mentions that Euphorbia Prostrata is “ used by the
Indians as an infallible remedy against the bites of poisonous insects
and snakes, especially the rattle-snake.”

5

CRUELTY INVOLVED IN MANUFACTURE OF SERUM

In the preparation of the serum dessicated venom (usually 800/0
cobra venom and 200/O viperine venom4) obtained from living or
dead snakes is dissolved in diStiIIed water and injedted in gradually
increasing doses into a horse, until the final dose reaches an amount
equivalent to the entire yield of twenty average sized snakes.

After an interval the horse is bled in the customary manner, and
the serum, now called anti-venene, is issued for use in tubes of IO c.C.

We learn that “ some horses yield a much stronger antitoxin than
others, that after reaching a certain strength the serum begins to
deteriorate, and that further injections of large amounts of venom
have no further effects in again increasing the antitoxic power."3

As we have already seen, enormous doses are necessary for
treatment and the cost and incidentally the profit to the manufac-
turer are proportionately great. _

A vivid description of the effects of the injection of the venom of
Notechis scutatus into horses will be found in an article by Dr. C. H.
Kellaway in the Medical journal of Australia, IVIarch l6th, I929.

When sub-lethal doses were given we read :—

“ After some hours definite respiratory distress was evident, the
alae nasi and the abdominal muscles working, though there was
little thoracic movement. The pupils were somewhat dilated.
Vaginal haemorrhage was seen in the mare. . . . Sweating was a
very charasteristic feature in all these animals."

The pos‘t-mortem findings on 'all the horses revealed extensive
haemorrhages in various organs of the body: “ In all these animals
the blood was tarry . . . the spleen was enlarged and almoét black
on section, and the liver was intensely congested.”

REFERENCES

British Medical/ournal, August 5, l899, p. 348.

Animal Life, June, I933.

Lancet, I904, Vol. ii, p. l273; “The Serum Therapeutics of
Cases of Snake Bite," by George Lamb, M.D. (Glasgow) of
the Pasteur Institute of India.

Extra Pharmacopaeia (Martindale), let Ed., I936, pp. 956-7.

Materia Medica, Boericke, I927, p. 308.

Issued (Sept., 1937) by

The Animal Defence & Anti-Vivisection Society,

15 St. James's Place, St. James's Street, London, S.W.1

President: Founder and Hon. Director:
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON MISS LlND-AF-HAGEBY

 

Printed by the St Christopher Press,Letc}1wortli Herts

 




