“Open thy mouth for the dumb.”—¥P1'overbs. “(£13553h MB 11.13 m 1317 flful." H

‘ “Kind hearts are more than coronets.”

* i We plead the cause of those damn
mouths that have no speech.

 

“He shall have judgment without mercy,
who has shown no mercy.” (Bible).

/‘ ' DZ” J
/ The Care and» /“/ :1"...-5il/

("y/Transportation of Cattle)

\\ ,
la

The natural tendency of men and women to avoid painful subjects
has led to a shirking of responsibility on one of the most important ques-
tions of the day,——the transportation of cattle. True, two or three
humane societies in this country have given some attention to the sub-
ject and improved conditions which not very many years ago were cruel
beyond belief, but one half has not yet been done that should be done,
and of late there has appeared to be special need for renewed effort in
this matter.

The American Humane Association, which is a federation of
humane societies, the Hon. James M. Brown, Toledo, Ohio, president,
appointed a committee at their annual meeting in 1900 to investigate
the care of cattle on trains and on ranches. The committee engaged Mr.
Levi Doty for the work and at the annual meeting in Buffalo, October 16,
1901, the report of his investigations was given by Mr. Sydney R. Taber

. of Chicago, secretary of the association. Not only from the humane

point of View but also from the awakened public interest in healthful
foods, the question of the transportation of those animals which are
used for food becomes important.

Mr. Levi Doty took three journeys between January 24 and July 1
of the year 1901. Two of these took him to Texas and the other as far
as Colorado. At Chicago he inspected one hundred and eighty-four
cars which had just arrived and found that the stock transported in them
had not been watered for a long time. Thirty-three cars loaded with
cattle were examined and in not one of these had there been any pro-
vision for watering the stock. Most of them had holes in the watering
troughs, showing that they were not in use. At La Junta two hundred
and ﬁfty cars were inspected, in none of which had water been pro-

 

 




 

Vided, and at least twenty-ﬁve were in such bad order that the watering
troughs could not be used. The cattle unloaded from these .cars were
very thirsty and in a bad condition. As from the standpomt of the
stockmen these cattle are intended for the food market, this condition
deserves the consideration of buyers as well as of humane workers.
The thermometer registered one hundred and ﬁve in the shade.

At Fort Madison, Iowa, a feeding point on the Santa Fe Railway,
the manager of the stock yards stated that during the nine years in
which he had been there he has seen only two or three attempts to water
stock on the cars and those attempts proved failures, the cattle after
smelling the water refusing to drink. Several shippers at Chicago
agreed that the use of “palace cars ” for watering is not practicable;
it is impossible, they say, to ﬁll the troughs without splashing the cattle
and terrifying them; also the troughs are so befouled that the water put
in them is wholly unﬁt to drink.

In Kansas City Mr. Doty saw ﬁfty palace stock cars unloaded and
upon examination he found that the troughs in every car were out of
order and had not been used. On another occasion he examined hun-
dreds of the cars in the yard and not one showed any signs of having

l been used for watering the stock. Stockmen at Denver declared the

troughs in the stock cars to be practically useless. To sum up Mr. Doty’s
report in regard to watering the cattle on the cars, he states as a fact
that in his observations of twenty years he has never seen an attempt
to water cattle or horses on the trains excepting in one case where he
had telegraphed ahead and had a hose ready at the station, when he saw
for himself that the method of, watering in the palace cars is impracti-

,' cable. No one, he says, west of Chicago makes a practice of watering

on cars.

Suffering from Long‘ Journeys

Examining into the length of time that cattle are conﬁned on cars
Mr. Doty learned that stock is run through from Denison, Texas, to

1 Kansas City and St. Louis, a journey of thirty-six to forty hours, with-

out any attempt being made to give them food or water. While he was
at Kansas City some cattle arrived that had been on the cars forty hours

:1 and travelled six hundred miles; they looked gaunt and feverish and

 

were suffering badly for water and food and rest. The temperature was
eighty-nine degrees in the shade. Over sixteen hundred hogs arrived
and many of them were dead from the effects of the heat and lack of
proper care.

One of the men at the Kansas City stock yard, John Lorimer, testi-
ﬁed that from twenty-four to twenty-eight hours Was as long a time as
any cattle or stock should be on a train. If kept longer they suffer very
much. The argument is sometimes used that the stockmen who own
the cattle would not allow them to suffer enough to injure the health of
the animals for ﬁnancial reasons. This plea has been used before. It
was used in the old slavery days. It is applied now in the case of
horses used in cities, and every one knows that the idea of ﬁnancial loss
in the future does not always act as a deterring force in the present. Mr.
Doty’s observations led to a different conclusion. Mr. I. O. Sims of
Lockwood, Oklahoma Territory, who has been in the live stock business
twenty years, said that he had bought stock cattle at Kansas City that

._.v:x—___v— ‘q4 T A \

 

 




 

}\ \A ‘
ark \ i
‘1)! I“?! r)
6.9 '2 P «J ”’ 'r J. ‘3
' J .‘ .1) f
_ .4 U :3 .. «.4 \l 1
4‘ \ I ‘5 H 1"“) (-73% F) i P:
”J r ,1. K' Q\ \ -’ '
’ ._ J \r J a ”(I g.) (g
,_ {‘} ;~_.. / 4Q \

y‘
\ \

 

. g x; 3 l l
1; ybawu’ cﬁe¥\vvui'ds ‘Diessed are t e Mer 1—
ful.” One hundred and twenty-seven of.
those towns accepted our offer—the last one
domg it to—day.

_ I will not speak of a host of other things
in Wthh our Society has proved itself equal
to the best, but will kindly request you to
notify the Society or our Agent, whose card
I enclose, of any cruelty existing in your
town, and it will be promptly investigated.
Please accept our thanks for your great and
generous interest in the welfare of the help—
less, and with kindest wishes, I remain,

Yours very respectfully,
HENRY B. HILL,

Vice— President.

\

A
v

KIND LETTERS.
Caserta, Italy, Jan. 13, 1907.
My Dear Mr. Angell,—Please to accept for
those beloved animals we love so well the en—
closed draft of one hundred dollars, and may
I ask you please to mail me here twenty cheap
copies of “Black Beauty in Italian,” which I
will distribute to the different regiments. I
do hope, dear Mr. Angell, you are well—happy,
oh yes, ‘I know you are that—and blessed
more than other men. If every one had only
done what you have to make others better and
more noble, this world might be a paradise.
God bless you over and over again.

Sincerely yours,

 

Care Colonello Framarin.

By the same mail we received another most
welcome letter from our German Society at
Berlin, telling us of the good work being done
there and asking for the publications of our
American Humane Education Society, and
another from one of the most inﬂuential ladies
of Massachusetts asking us to call upon her
husband and herself for funds we may need
to aid in the protection of dogs. At the same
time we found on our table another letter
from a lady we met many years ago in Swit—
zerland, telling us that she had recently made
a will giving to our Society several thousand
dollars, and another from Ella Wheeler Wil~
cox, now in Rome, that she hopes to return
in May to help on our humane work, for which
she has already done so much. We receive
almost every day more or less letters, the
reading of which gives us special pleasure.

GEO. T. ANGELL.

3: 1:5

 

 

g» , 3 - -
£? (‘3 ﬂ : 29>
\k/ < ‘ .1, \ l;
4" C 7.2) m .. ‘ “j
* b g 3 ~' 3 £35
.3 1) Q? 1. ‘j«Q~3ﬂ we???
s7. - D ' j 3,3 “>3
3 “‘ 43: J; 173%
‘ ”A ~ l. . , . . s“

> / I é l g H S) _\

‘VIVISECTION. ‘

   
   
   
    
 
    

Two Prizes of Three Hundred Dollars Each

Sixteen years ago, in behalf of the America]
Humane Education Society, I offered a priz.
of two hundred and ﬁfty dollars for the bes
essay in favor of vivisection, and the sam<
sum for the best essay against vivisection
then bound the two prize essays together anc
sent them to thousands of physicians and
others. Recently, at the request of President
Eliot of Harvard University and others, our
street commissioners have given to one of our
beautiful avenues the name of a French Vivi—i
sector who has probably caused more suffering.
to animals than any man of his time, Louis.
Pasteur. This has resulted in calling wide
attention to the subject, and I think the 'time
has now come when the whole question of}
vivisection should become a matter of na-l
tional discussion and thought. To aid in?
securing this most desirable result I now offei
in behalf of the American Humane Educa-
tion Society a prize of three hundred dollars
for the best essay in favor of vivisection anr
another prize of three hundred dollars for th<
best essay against it, the intention being t(
bind the two together, and not only send then
to thousands of physicians, but also to ever}
one of the about twenty thousand American
newspapers and magazines which receive “ 014:,
Dumb Animals” every month, and variou:
others. These essays must all be typewrittei
on sheets securely fastened together, must b<
signed with ﬁctitious names, must be accom
panied by sealed letters giving the real name:
and post-ofﬁce addresses of the writers, mus
not contain over eight thousand words, am
must be received at our ofﬁces, 19 Milk Street
Boston, on or before June 1st, 1907. It is m;
intention to have the best committee possibl<
of persons in favor of vivisection decide t<
whom the prize for the best essay in its favo:
shall be awarded, and the best committee pos
sible of those opposed to vivisection decide t<
whom shall be awarded the prize essay oppos
ing its practice. To draw the three hundrer
dollars each committee must certify that th<
essay it reports as best is entitled to wide cir-
culation. It is my hope to bring before the
public, widely over our country from the
ablest thinkers, the best light that can be
obtained on the above subject. No one of
the sealed letters will be opened until the
committees have made their decisions.

GEO. T. ANGELL.

 

 

 

 

 

 




   

vided, and at least twenty-ﬁve were in such bad order that the watering

troughs could not be used.

l {‘11 a

1M151xn~l~mn .- .

THE FUTURE HISTORIAN.

Perhaps the future historian may tell his

' readers that the most important discovery of

, for the speciﬁc object
, to the importance of this discovery —— that

 

_.___.__—_——_________—___.__——.,_. .4

arm“ wwwu.‘_s_

:77

the nineteenth century—more important than
all discoveries in the art of war, all armor—clad
vessels, all guns, fortiﬁcations and cannon——~
more important than all telegraph wires and
all the applied powers of steam and electricity
——more important than all prisons and peni—
tentiaries—was the discovery of the simple
fact that the tap roots of all wars and murders
and cruelty and crime could be cut 0/7c by simply
teaching and leading every child to seize every
opportunity to say a kind word or do a kind act
that should make some other human being or
dumb creature happier. That on the continent
of North America, in the city of Boston, on
the 16th day of January, 1889, was organized
the ﬁrst incorporated society in the world——
The American Humane Education Society!
of awakening the world

through the American press, by prizes and
otherwise, it succeeded in attracting the atten—

tion, sympathy and aid of Christians, patriots _

and philanthropists of all nations —— that
through its “Bands of Mercy” and an immense

free distribution of humane literature it suc- .

ceeded in reaching the children, not only in
every American school, but also in every
American home—-that in all the schools,
prizes and honors were given to those that
most excelled in acts of kindness—~that the
children of the criminal classes were reached,
because every criminal, by the commission of
crime, forfeited the right of custody of his chil—
dren, which were taken by State Boards of
Charities and placed in surroundings suitable
to make them good citizens—~that a public sen-
timent was built up which made the rich kind
to the poor, the poor kind to the rich, and all
crimes and cruelties infamous, and so in pro-
cess of time every form of unnecessary human
and animal suffering was relieved, and wars,
cruelty andcrime banished, because every child
was taught in all public, private and Sunday—
schools, and in a hundred thousand free kinder—
gartens, supported at public expense, to make its

own life happier by seizing every opportunity to .

say a kind word or do a kind act that should
make happier the lives of others, both human and
dumb, and that the highest honors of the state and
nation were due to those who did the most to in—
crease the nation’s happiness.

GEO.

T. ANGELL.

. The cattle unloaded from these cars were
l very thlrsty and in a bad condition.
stockmen these cattle are intended for the food market, this condition
deserves the consideration of buyers as well as of humane workers
The thermometer registered one hundred and ﬁve in the shade. .
At Fort Madison, Iowa, a feeding point

As from the standpoint of the

on the Santa Fe Railway,

#

 

IN THE GRAND BALL ROOM or
THE WALDORF—ASTORIA.

The poor dog, in life the ﬁrmest friend,

The ﬁrst to welcome, foremost to defend,

Whose honest heart is all his master’s own,

Who. labors, ﬁghts, lives, breathes for him
alone. Byron.

We are gratiﬁed to receive a kind notice of
an entertainment in the grand ball-room of
the hotel Waldorf—Astoria, New York, for
the beneﬁt of a home for animals.

GEO. T. ANGELL.
W
THE CATTLE KING.

“A king, a cattle king,” was what they
called him, this man who came loaded with
diamonds and free with money, to spend the
'winter in a mild Southern city. A king, and
yet no royal blood in his veins. A self—made
monarch—~and his subjects? Only the lowing
herds in the far—off West. His kingdom the
frozen plains where his cattle are dying. For
it is cheaper to lose hal]c his subjects than to feed
and protect the whole! He has left his ice—
bound home, has closed his ears to the suffer-
ing beasts; he wraps his great coat close about
him and seeks pleasure! Can he shut out the
cries that are piercing the winter nights beyond
that mountain chain out towards the setting sun?
Do not dreams of the cattle his subjects—suﬁer-
ing, starving, freezing and dead, haunt the pillow
of this king? ' Murder!-surely this king did
no murder. There is no blood on his hands.
He only let his dumb beasts starve or freeze to
death—ethat is all!

But there is another Kingl—a King whose
kingdom is the Universe——“And the cattle
upon a thousand hills are His!” How will
the cattle king stand on the day when deeds stand
witness for and against us, and balanced against
his gold will be the cattle God’s cattle——which
he left on the plains without food or shelter, to
die of slow starvation, that he might have more
gold.”——New Orleans Picayune.

\Ne most respectfully ask our brother edi—
tors, who receive this paper, to help us stop

this terrible starvation.
- GEO. T. ANGELL.
_—_________’___.———-—-——————'—
a In cold weather blanket your horses
while stopping.

 

 

 

l/

1

“L OKs/W’LC/i» LQJQ ,

l

  

\L/NVV L d .

.1.
saw

/

«K .

l
l

l

l

\

f r
(J L/k/

 

FM
l d/U’L

O’ULO’L/D

A,
J

 

 

M

 




 

 

 

 

JJJ _ 1.? 111.1133911111 a , J-   ..\ ,
(if .JUVCR 1T1? xCD J..J.J1©\J\ \ 9m; «KJTQCC WALK/CA ECG. DRE. Cg Q1.

J J
J. g; QxCCKJJwCEX/CC. C11.JJ.JC«)11«1.\.J.-«1J111 313 CFC.- («\ J.. («Q1 x.Jr\J. CCCF:\ C.J._.«1Q«1£11CCQ«1 (JCCR

RC1CCxJ «135A? J 1....TRCQ1«\.J 19. 01.0.” .C. S. JxJJ-J..CJxC1JJ.HCF .J.1«xJ.«(R Jr1JJ .Co RCA-(Q1116
JJ. .01JJJ1x1RQLJ1RJC1iC1v/1ER :CC m1... .J11.JJ1.1.CC 11C-«JJ1 .CQCCQ. «Cw... L.x11R Agﬁk E

m 1-411...- -.J. .J J J. 1,
J“ _ CCQJHHWC J1. CcCR Ang? xJJJJC «191%.1, E5 //Q ($11.1 CKCLCCCL «.1... «1......11 11J1xee CCiCRva
.. L. J r111... J . 1 3..

SE. JJCQHHU J11 «1CJC1C1CTJJR «1J1. .CQ1J1. Qx-Jx «Qr (Kg-«(CCCvcd 010 SEQ-11..

 

 

 

J .
J J E OngCOm UL/11-Qr11f1m1RKJRxFKJ «.1 v r1«..J.-.JJJ...1.,11J11 Cb 1W1..-- J...1.J.JJ ...11x («1.111 ,xJ,.H1....J1m . J ﬁxn.1 ._ 11.1.1Q11J1CC1J (.
J C 1. 1r .J.1.1....J..._-...J.-1J.-....JJJ a1. 1....1JJCOJ EB... U xJJJ..1Jx1CQCQ.Jr1 \r.\. §J.\WFRLCJJ1JC 6% CRKJJJJJJC01®16
J quLC/CCR r1 CgCR CE: .5 1JJJ_«\O1C Chm 8.121%? ORRJ QJRCR g g/LQUCJ Sadr-$01?
a gJKO J1\ C11.J\C .J.1,.1.-1.J.11.1J«,1J1MCFJ (8901ng /.JJJ J~\«.K\J\/\Cv Cémﬂ. diﬁ ./ . 1
1911.1 . _

gJKQKAIHQ1rCMJKLL \me. J!1\lux.«\J-JKJU\ 1.. .1 J 1\.K.f11: ....1..J.«J1\.-U\1J1. +11\J .. .J .-JJ...1J U «.1.-\. .Jrk .1.JJJ\. . ...\~ \~ .\.«1...l g E. -§
. g EJ151111 .LJ.JFCG\JJL1«1R CJCJCCJJ. SCENE CCLJWC CM JOVCRJ \QJECCJCMJ «)1xe .W1 $.61... J...
.1 ..J.. J. J .- J. J,
91.0 m\Q«-«1.11«\J («52100 C01:-S1JJJ1mxr\«J./k1v QPOR C1. LCWF .J1J-1R E EC11C 51.1.1 1.11ka
J. AKﬁKr-1QKJ1KP1Q11J1C J11 (CA-11+ .JJ . Q g E E \J& @g

a

J Orb? CC}: DCQHCQXCCJWMCr .1..\ J ..Jr.xJ. .CQJJ1 CJJJTmWCC ECJCXJ 0.1210 CQCC1 «1.111 111%.Q1x
J. J... Cg?nm .WJWQ... CKJDJ . \rKCCC §% R1 QQCRCKCJJJ J-1.11J. SEQ «\TQCC. QCXRRON. 31C... 1.

J .J

   

@1391:

  
 

1k\«.\\l\

-..m ..,_....._.._.._._...._J JJ..-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

p.
i
9

and
thrc
free
ceec
evew
Am
pr1z
moc
ch12
becc
CH?
C hc
t0 7/
t1m
to 1
wk
ces
anc
cru
wa

L( 9.... Q - .._-.1,.-.1. - 1..-...... ...

19

.\P 1.

z... . x .1 .1.._D.-9\r\ . -../x... 11 (.11....111 9.19 x. r X... ......1 . .,
1 g .. .17? E OF 09. Q 19.6.99??? .-.. ...-1......
1.1.,9\ <1..:.......... ...... (WK..F\ 1QJ§® 9. . F9419 \AWt _. (1.9.91.1.- --/I\r\F .1 .....(A. 19.. ..,.1I..1-Ul.-..11 \F. (\F1.1r1 ....1. 9' C111... -... 1.....-. .... .-..9. I H9. .3199 1..I1 I... .. . ..
g .1... A -1. .. 1....- .... .. .1-.. . a . _. .. .. ...-H. ._ 9%.r j-VWru-CC... 1. .iQC.1_€Q.1...F

1. r 9 ..I M99. \ .1 11 . 9... 9.1(\\ (\2...-1 ?\ 9 . x ,...I\. .... IL... fab. 9 . ... . . v r\ I\
. . J . ..-- ...-,1... . 1
1 1 9 1 .. 9 .. , ... 1 ,. - . . F
n. 1 . _ 111 .-

 

 

1 .1.

\ I \1 9 :\1\ \ i. I
1 1 1M] - . . .\./ :r.l|.l\| . 19.x- .. . . ... . ((1 K... .. . . . _
...-.1, .1111 .\r;-.19. ...-1.x-.. \-9\ a1 9\ \FLI. /.F.\.9\. J\ . 91F1 P19.-. . 9--. . 1, .. 9f .. ...... -9.- 6 .-.-.9. I. f . 1 . .- .. r

.. 1.. ....._. (19s.... ...-.1. I . .III. ... . . . .
1-1/1... 81(1le \ 919v9D §§J1m9lkx 91p W/(PI19191.\..K ( ...DP. V- {OF 9/ 9- ...-1..... .. . - . . ...- .....- .. ...-

159... ﬂ19 {x}. 1. ....1 @919. 9.. .../...I-F 9 Cr. 1...: 4.21.9 ......1F.\M1xr. . 9-1. . u .. . . ...1 .. ... .1 . . . . . .
. 1.1119. 1 _ . .. ... ,- . . . . .11 I 4
. _ . . .1... .. ..1. . ..V . ..- . ., .. . 1

11.1 . _ .
. .9 . .. . . . .. .
. x

..<.. .X (\9....\ .9\. 9.19.... ...-v1.2.9.-.

9 1.. .. . . , ... .
...-11F \Fxgr. r11uI\/\9\(IK\D\9\£ (1...; $9.. 9 (9!... ur .(.!1!...9 ...--1. .9-.../mw..Y-..9I 11.1.1... ..--.0 (fun... . .... ...!1..-._ 1..

 

\

1... I..-:19 g 1... K «It. .. / -. .- .-. 9 \. I . .2191 \. . . . ,
r1 499.191G\ 01.9. Fm 01-11 1t. 9&9! . V 9... .919.- ..11 1. . 1V-.r.\1.x.1/-F1...1I- .r. ....-.r ...... ...1 Ax-
! .... {I .- . J .. \ 1 . . -
9. . .t 1 . . - .5

..r--.._..C (Q $91.11 .951! .....u. ......r. i.-- . .9 ,1 . . 1
- f -.. A. 1- _ .f. r -. . - 9

ﬁl||ll|1l I'll.)
In"
I!!!

   

g

 

.. .vJWu-Jﬁrdtl x




 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tit"

C1‘
C6
ELI
CI‘

SC

1

 

 

‘1
J D , . a a V y
VOL/J" e Veer V

K

Lax) t; \“L C'L/‘l/‘Z/U /«"'1/(/.Q q

,’l

4/ \J't ”L/O

/I

tee
«ﬁt

'1'
“l
r

** at,
ski, e/

,t

L/
x.

4

tom

(1/ 1* 1, ()1.

l"

e/

 

rip

some ' -'

 

fl

tee”

i,
it
,

r

KL t (3

 
  

t:
L,

A

A
//
”i

V

(I
,1

//

L. CL.

’ l

O

TIL/l. ﬁt- ‘-

 

 

J

  

is

KﬂtJMJ‘L/z

."l

an

a;
VIKLV’ . L ’1 Ln”

41

,‘7
'1
[I

me

J
\ .

./’

s”

  

1".“‘7’
rt .

_

  

,A
l

6';

 

J

’7

”ritual
‘ / {la/"W“.J

,4
.::» g“,
1 .'J ‘1'

"i
F

l

tut/A} /
t

fl

ULK JVK-vai/LOK {WMCLQLQ k,

I
U’ u A11 1

w
//s
V. x
A

“it ‘4 ”L \,
t

Jr"

"W

,4

Lb OLA-Lot

 

eat-

/l\/3

’

’ A")

/

t/ Jet/t

/(

,
1 \ .m »‘ a

, V /‘ /.._‘ {A . I ," /(H
uMévijzm/ulr Mk...” V

“Jade,

J
‘v’i

ll
rt"

, ween/tees

J

i
i
l

/T

 

a

~€

7/“,
l
I

u

/l/o/
=’l

1 I

L/

gC
02
50
m

C,

 

“..,__,/ V' ' 1y [‘MV' b

If.
\.

QL/l/t,

Kt

 

k

i Q
tie/k,»
A
‘V
“J L -
ﬂ"
0'

A“ ‘i"""0 ”Ltd/s0

4

(V'

t

,4 A

,A.

f

,l

' (Sh/Lexy
g
L," L/

i“ H",-

/

‘7

0/

t.)

 

V1.» )Ll/killm/r“ ‘V ‘ ‘V‘

A: ‘¥\/ \K
i {L

\

,J

T I

 

 

. ' , “a
oil from water so as to get what 1s callectii nk
' ' ll be weiUhed and then they ra
thcx shou ( h , . ‘ Dd Others
-' ‘ “over for a long time, a '
much that some of tin-1n did not ice . 1 .7 W11 the prinmpal
(Siicd \lr l)oty found that this practice is earriecffonuiln t
tocl; tiards west of Chicago, and eanses much SLINL1111%;‘S in horses and
s \'1- Com-()- of Conroy 8,; liros., wholesale (sea 1 Shipping as
l. I Kurds Citv says: “ Mules Will stand as muc 1h for them.
‘5 ll) 2 N. . i J . .t d H . (f 11011
mtlftiyinu creature” and twentyjonr hours IS lonb : eight hours even
an} , ,1 “1 l not he kept on the cars more than twen y‘ g Cattle on the
The} Hon t \11‘ Sims Says he would not leaVe hem to g0
i . \ t ¢ . . .
and it Will 1113ure some of t
, 6

had been purposely lteltl

' ' them" lit‘iut‘t‘
big llll on

- . ' ,,
in Cases ol necessit} . . .
cars more than twenty—Six hours

. D]: ' 0
, . a . o 1 1t ech
as long ‘15 t‘ltlto attic arrived iron/1 SliVC/r C Y3.

.- - ~ 1 C but —tW0
. At “1 . 1 “:0”: usix miles): that h‘ld been on f d (although
(5“ hundrm in“ ) the yards all day Without 66

hours; they were then held 1n1 , vcre weak and
watered) and branded \\'llll€ t icy \

and fatigue .

- — er
suffering f1 om hunt?»r

Cruelty of Branding

' ' to which the
The process of branding is one of the painful things

. attle
e1 ht hundred C .
‘_::~1 and Mr. DotYa _Wh‘° saw}: e g de unnecessarily

ne which grows 1111a;
themselves 111- T e
er over a pulley; one

nd wraps it around a
eral tails were broken

   
   
  
    
   
  
    
   

Plan’s lnhumanity.

Man's inhumanity to man is only exeelledin
em; and intensity by his inhumanity to dumb
brutes that serve ltim. The la w proteets the
poor and Weak among': men from oppression and
brutality to Snln') extent, but the, few weak laws
for the proteetion of dumb brutes inmost of
the states are rarely executed. Animals are
beaten, overworked, starved and maltreated in
various ways to an extent that is dis-grateful to
civilized and Christian nations. The eyes of
animals are often knocked out- and their skin
laceratedbywhips and clubs in the hands of
infuriated and often intoxicated drivers and
the laws for the protection of these innocent
and unfortunate animals have no more force
than the English alphabet or the multiplication
tables. The world is full of miserable human
beings and maltreated and neglected domestic
animals, and the noblest men and women are
those who do the most to relieve the sutl'ering or

men and animals, and the most wicked in the

sight of God are those who cause the greatest
amount of suﬁering in the world. The money

king who swallows the honest earnings of 10,000

hard-working families and leaves those he has

craftily and iegally robbed to suﬁ‘er for want of
bread and clothing. will have a heavy account
to settle at the end of his stewardship, and he
will have to draw on a broken bank to make his
payments. (Col. Dan’l Bennett.)

ext

ds of horses unloaded
t water or feed; they
When they got to the
ight kill themselves by
er lot said he had lost
111; gthe stockmen a train
ttle are obliged by law
ckmen to allow cars to
ter, and that they had
- inst any ﬁne or expense
he law.

he great need of more
am by local humane so—
5 City Mr. Doty saw SIX
:1 been cruelly crowded.
itaining thirty-six horses.
gon, and Were so packed
uld not be shipped out,
As the result of his 0b-
the impression that there
hout any regard for their

 

 

eed,
eed,
rted

urt
und' ‘

est

 

 

    




 

    

 

  

had been purposely held off from water so as to get what is called “ a
big ﬁll on them” before they should be weighed, and then they drank
so much that some of them did not recover for a long time, and others
died. Mr. Doty found that this practice is carried on in all the principal
stock yards west of Chicago, and causes much suffering.

Mr. Conroy of Conroy & Bros., Wholesale dealers in horses and
mules in Kansas City, says: “Mules will stand as much shipping as
any living creature, and twenty-four hours is long enough for them.
They should not be kept on the cars more than twenty-eight hours even
in cases of necessity.” Mr. Sims says he would not leave cattle on the
cars more than twenty-six hours, and it will injure some of them to go
as long as that.

At La Junta eight hundred cattle arrived from Silver City, Mexico
(six hundred and twenty-six miles), that had been on the cars thirty-two
hours; they were then held in the yards all day without feed (although
watered) and branded while they were weak and suffering from hunger
and fatigue.

Cruelty of Branding

The process of branding is one of the painful things to which the
, cattle are subjected, and Mr. Doty, who saw the eight hundred cattle
‘ just alluded to put through this trial, declared it to be made unnecessarily
painful. The cattle are driven into a narrow lane which grows nar-
rower as they advance until they can barely squeeze themselves in. There
they are held by a clamp which is worked by a lever over a pulley; one
man holds the lever while another seizes the tail and wraps it around a
stationary gas pipe; then the iron is applied. Several tails were broken
and some were entirely pulled off.

Indifference of Stockmen

At Kansas City Mr. Doty saw several carloads of horses unloaded
that had been on the road thirty-six hours without water or feed; they
were in a feverish condition and looked badly. When they got to the
water they had to be forced away for fear they might kill themselves by
drinking too much. A man in charge of another lot said he had lost
eight horses out of three carloads from over drinking.

In spite of these facts which are known among the stockmen a train
despatcher at Denver, where the carloads of cattle are obliged by law
to stop, said he had been begged often by the stockmen to allow cars to
run through without stopping for feed and water, and that they had
offered to sign an agreement to indemnify him against any ﬁne or expense
that he might suffer in consequence of violating the law.

This indifference of the stockmen shows the great need of more
careful oversight of the cattle yards and stock cars by local humane so-
cieties and government authorities. At Kansas City Mr. Doty saw six
dead hogs taken from one car where they had been cruelly crowded.
At Denver he saw a car thirty-four feet long containing thirty-six horses.
They had been shipped from Island Ledge, Oregon, and were so packed
in that their condition was terrible. They could not be shipped out,
and had to be sold for what they would bring. As the result of his ob-
servation and inquiry Mr. Doty was forced to the impression that there
are many stockmen who handle their cattle without any regard for their

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

comfort- They argue that if they have ﬁfteen hundred cows and get .

twelve hundred calves they can afford to lose one third, for there is still
good proﬁt in the business. Also in regard to stopping to feed while in
transit the stockmen say that if the cattle do shrink, and if some of them
die, the loss will not be so great as the expense of feeding.

Side-tracked Cattle

The unfortunate custom of allowing the cars before unloading to
stand on a side track for several hours until convenient to get them into
the yard causes great suffering, as it is harder for the stock to stand on a
car an hour after reaching the end of the journey than to run three
hours. In cases where a snow storm comes on and the yard is blocked
A the cars have been allowed to stand with the live stock for a number of
hours, and the cries of the suffering animals are most pitiful. This some-
times happens in Massachusetts, although the laws are more stringent
than in some other states, and it will continue to happen until local hu-
mane societies are on the lookout to, prevent such cruelty.

Water at Convenient Distance 3 Great Need

The suffering of cattle on large ranches for want of water is very
great and has occasioned the loss of thousands. A man who has an
interest in the raising of stock on a large Texas ranch said that in times
of drought the animals would run miles for water, and when they reached
some muddy, stagnant lake would make such a rush for it that hundreds
of the cattle were trampled under foot in the muddy bottom of the lake
where they perished miserably. This man deplored the suffering of the
cattle on the ranches and said many of the cattle men would be glad
if some way could be thought out to prevent so much suffering. He
also spoke with great feeling about the branding of the cows and calves,
and said it was a cruel operation which he wished there was any way to
prevent.

The proprietor of the Whaley Mill and Elevator Company at
Gainsville said that if cattle have to go farther than two or three miles
for water they will suffer. Several stockmen told Mr. Doty that all the
ranches they had visited on which the cattle were doing well had water
within two miles at most. Mr. W. P. Ewing of Higgins, Texas, who
has been in the live stock business twenty-ﬁve years, says that cattle
ought not to be obliged to go more than two miles to water. He adds
that the talk about cattle going voluntarily without water when the snow
is on the ground from three to seven days is “ all bosh ” ; that in order to
thrive they must have water once a day. At Watkins, Colorado, Mr.
Doty met several cattle men who were well posted in regard to ranch cattle,
and all agree that cattle suffer unless they can have water once a day,
and that they are better off if they can have it twice. At a ranch near
Denver the foreman showed two never failing springs and stated that in
warm weather the cattle go to these springs twice every day, and in cool
weather once if the weather is wet, and twice when the weather is dry.

At Ordway several stockmen seemed well satisﬁed that the cattle had
water within one hour’s travel. At La Junta during a dry season such
as occurs every few years Mr. Doty was informed that many cattle were
lost for want of water. When the small streams dried up and the cattle
were obliged to go from ﬁve to twenty-ﬁve miles after water they lose ﬂesh,
become very weak, and fall down and die. Reliable men in Texas told

' ,
.47 .4\44,____a-_

 

l
3
l
l
Q
4

 




l
l
l
i
a

 

‘ ,,
“.14- a 44

 

TO EDUCATE THE BRAINS.

Millions are poured into our colleges and
un1yers1t1es to educate the brains of America,
zhile almost nothing is done to educate the

eart.

“What we sow in the home and school, we
reap 1n the nation.” '
the criminal

Humane education lowers

record.

“No civilization is complete which does not
include within its sphere of charity and mercy
the dumb and defenceless of God’s creatures.”
—— Queen Victoria. '

Knowledge alone does not make men better,
but kindness does. A handful of kindness is
worth a bushel of learning.

“The man who tortures animals is a DAN GER-
OUS MEMBER OF SOCIETY. He is a degenerate,
who would commit just such crimes upon the
HUMAN race. were it not for his fear of punish—
ment.” ——“The American Field” on “Human
Degeneracy. ’ ’

“0 science! What crimes are committed in
thy name.”

Freeman, the noted English historian and
noble humanitarian, justly declared, “that the
awful wrongs and sufferings forced upon the
innocent, helpless, faithful animal race forms
the blachest chapter in the whole world’s
history.”

“If I were a man of means and had a horse
that I liked, I would turn him out to pasture
in his old age, or, if I could not do that, I
would put him in the hands of somebody I
knew who w0uld use him kindly and carefully,
and then put him to a painless end. Or, if I
could not do either of these things, I would
put him out of the way myself. I would not
turn him over into what is almost of necessity,
certain last years of suffering, of cruelty, of
neglect.” — Rev. M. J. Savage.

If you have any doubts as to whether ani-
mals feel pain, watch the look of extreme
suffering and hopeless woe upon the face of a
poor, half—starved, overworked horse.

It is everybody’s business to interfere with
cruelty.

“Cruelty is the devil’s trade—mark, but kind-
ness ls heaven’s trade—mark.”

To fret and worry a horse will shorten his
life and lessen his useﬁilness.

Whoever restores a young bird to the limb,

Or gladdens the lives of dumb creatures in need,

Is one of Christ’s helpers, whatever his creed,

ClaspsI—lliands with “the angel that comforted

1m.”

But whoever ﬁnds pleasure in adding one hurt

To an innocent life, be it insect or dove,

Is somehow in league with those who found
sport .

In nailing the hands of the'World’s Greatest
Love.

Oh, how dare we ask a just God to bestow

The mercy we grant not to creatures below!

And when our day’s work is over and each
servant comes home in the evening, when he
stands before the Judge and waits His word,
what is to be the law by which you and I shall
be approved or condemned? It will not be
our knowledge nor our cleverness, nor shall it
be our creeds nor our professions; for none of '
these things shall be once mentioned then.
As the Judge, who cares for no favor and sees
through all pretences, considers each life, He
bids glad, full welcome to those who, in this
lower life, amid all their mistakes and failings,
have cherished a warm heart; and so at last
the Crown is placed on the brOw of Kindness.

The age of chivalry is never past so long as
there is a wrong left unredressed on earth, or
a man or woman left to say, “I will redress
that wrong or spend my life in the attempt.”
—— Charles Kinsley.

“Open thy mouth for the dumb. ”~Proverbs.

“Kind hearts are more than coronets.”——
Tennyson.

“The great duty of life is not to give pain.”
—— F. Bremer.

“He shall have judgment without mercy,
who hath shown no mercy.” —Bible..

“Sweet mercy is nobility’s true badge.”—
—— Shakespeare.

“Man’s colleague, —— the horse.” —— Huxley.

“Man’s colleagues, ——the animals and birds.
——M. C. J.

“He who is not actively kind is cruel.”—
Ruskin.

Ownership bestows No RIGHT to abuse or
distress.

“No cruel man can enter the kingdom of
Heaven.”

 

“Kind, generous hearts and deeds are pass-
ports to heaven.” ——M. C. J
OVER

 




' - “Among the noblest in the land, ~
SPORT. (Though he may count himself the least,)
“The slaughter of animals of any kind for That man I honor and revere,
mere pleasure ought to be prohibited by law. Who, w1thout_favor, Without fear,
It is the writer’s ﬁrm belief. that a fully In the great c1ty dares to stand
awakened conscience will recognize animal The frlend ofevery imendless beast,
rights as well as human rights, and certainly And tames With an unshrinking hand
there is no right more sacred to either animal The BRUTES that wear our form and face,
or human than the right to live. The WEHR-WOLVES of the human race.
“To the writer, nothing short of 1tclin‘ebwhole- * ——Longfell0w.
' ‘ : e l 0' con 8 more , . .
hididiigstbéfdeggingudgggvitli 1aasshotgun to kill Inarticulate V01f‘33a 91103113 0f anguish, .
birds or with a riﬂe to destroy the graceful Patient Sigh“ neath burdens hard to bear,
antelbpe or busy rabbits 01. squirrels, all From-lone places wnere dumo v1ct1ms langulsh
actively at work performing Ofﬁces in the Plaintive moans are floating on the air.
\ economy of nature. Think of the millions of
l murders which are daily committed in the
1 name of sport, of the vast number of noble,
1 happy creatures WhiCh. are ShOt dOWP, e1ther “We plead the cause of those dumb mouths
killed outright, or maimed and mutilated, to that have no speech.” ﬂLongfellow.
linger out a miserable existence, and ﬁnally to _
die of pain or starvation.” — Dr. J. H. Kellogg, “Merciful treatment of animals should be 7
Supt. Battle Creek, Mich, Sanitarium. taught from the pulpit and in our Sunday

Schools as a most imperative Christian

THE TWO KINDS OF SPORT. dutJ’.” w Bishop lV. X. Ninde. L.

“The crying sin of omission of.most clergy—
men today is their silence regarding the lnhu—
manity of men to animals.” —— Ella Wheeler

 

“Blessed are the merciful, for theyishall
obtain mercy.”

 

- * war .

" ’Tis a beautiful morning,” a sportsman said;
“The world looks so happy let’s each take a gun,
Go out and kill something for pastime and fun,

And proudest be him who counts the most dead.” lV’llCUfb‘.

They blotted out lives that were happy and good; Kind deeds outlive marble monuments :32 l
Blinded eyes, and broke wings that delighted to soar. r‘l‘mam When all else perlSheS. Theg are Of E
They killed for mere pleasure, and crippled and tore, beau “full gems and the fragrant .owers I

Regardless of aught but the hunger for blood. llfe, and are pearls strung for Eternltﬁ Z

“ ’Tis a. beautiful morning,” a sportsman cried . .
Who carried a kodak instead of a gun: The horse is man’s invaluable helper, has as l
"The world looks as happy, so golden the sun, much right to be happy at hIS work as we l

I’ll slip to the woods where the wild things hide. have, and should be treated (18 (L ﬁne/”d

The deer that he “shot” never dreamed of his aim.
Yet the bird that he caught went on with her song.
Peace followed his footsteps, not slaughter and wrong,
Yet rich were his “trophies” and varied his “game,”

You are only doing right when you treat
every living creature as you would WISh tab:
treated. If you drive or own ahOI‘Se, thm~
how you would like to be treated if you were

‘ - th t h -s . T at your do and cat the same. i
‘Detested sport! which owes its pleasure a or e re . g y

to another’s pain.” — Cowper. Animals have rights as well as Pgople' .

To abuse any innocent and helpless creature ,~

b The stage? trtap1 and othder traps, largely used is mean, cruel and cowardly.
y ra 1 -ca c ers an amekee r '

been well described as aﬁominablpee devisegse All cruelty degrades the person Who prac

bothtas % means of destruction and as instru: tices it-

men S O TORTURE MOST HO '

only do the sharp teeth by whidilihgvigt‘imuisc It pays to take care Of all animals.

held and LaCERATED cause EXCRUCIATING Any person who deliberately tortures a

PAIN, but thls pain is often PROLONGED for dumld animal would commit any crlme no

days and weeks together, until the keeper or requiring courage.

some passer—by may happen to visit the spot

‘,

“They cannot recompense you, but ye shall

 

 

and put the sufferer out of his ' - ' the
HOUSEHOLD PETS are also often caglﬁ’frﬁ; he repomnensed 1n the resurrection 0

these traps. LAWS should be passed forbid- Just. —Bible. ‘
Shh§riicrghcdlsse of such cruel and criminal “For us they toil and die—— oVERl

 

 




ice,
7 7
allow.

ear;
guish
1

shall
Juths

Id be
inday
stian

ergy—
inhu—
sealer

3 and
3 the
rs of

C. J.
as as
s we

treat
to be

hink 1

were
1HMi

,ture

trac—

es af
not,

hall

the

VER

' "’~»— amt-a?“ _

‘

.‘4

.WV

.ijr. A

r“

__.,, .

 

.ﬁgwt*;/

Mr. Doty that they had frequently in a dry time seen cattle lying by the
roadside on the way to the river in numbers of from twenty. to forty in
a mile, and some of them would live for days after they become too
weak to walk.

Proposed Amendment of Laws

Early last year the Humane Association sent letters to presidents
of railway companies asking their opinion upon the subject of the
amendment proposed by the National Live Stock Association in which
they ask permission to keep their stock on the road during transporta-
tion for forty hours without stopping to give food or water. In the
replies received several of the presidents Withheld any expression of opin-
ion, some were exceedingly cautious, and others showed a strong dis-
position to stand on this question with the Live Stock Association. The
replies received, and some other indications, pointed to the conclusion
that the Live Stock Association is actively, though quietly, at work in
railway circles, and that a determined and well-organized effort will be
made at the next session of Congress to secure the desired amendment,
which will permit them to inﬂict the great suffering on the cattle with
no fear of the law or of interference by the humane societies. As a
general thing the stockmen were very unwilling to give Mr. Doty any
information at all, which would not have been the case had they felt

certain that their work was in no need of reform.

Need of Shelter

Another great cause of suffering among the cattle on the western
ranches is need of shelter. Where a ranch is well wooded the cattle do
not suffer so much, but there are ranches wholly unﬁt to be used for such
purposes on account of the lack of water and of shelter. . A stockholder
in a cattle ranch who has visited ranches 1n the West sald.that 1n a v10-
lent storm the cattle have turned their backs to the freezmg Wind and
storm and run as hard as they could in search of shelter. He said they
had been known to run until they reached the fence that enclosed the
ranch and, crowding each other against this barrler, had trampled upon
the weaker ones and wounded and killed them. He declared it to be a
cruel thing that cattle should be kept on a ranch where no shelter either

natural or provided could be had.

 

 

 

“THE LAST OF FIVE THOUSAND.’ .
represents thousands of dumb anrrnals who 1n
freeze and die upon our great plalns every
are, water, shelter and food.

The above picture fairly
storms suffer. starve,
year for want of c

 




 

 

More instead of Less Humane Laws

In the light of these duly attested'facts does it seem unreasonable
to ask that more instead of less humane laws should be made universal
throughout the United States referring to the keeping and the transporta-
tion of cattle? There should be a law forbidding any stock company to
keep a larger herd of cattle or sheep than can be provided with water,
shelter and food when there is no pasturage. Water can be supplied by
various methods, and shelter need not be expensive. If carried on trains
they need to be unloaded every twenty-four hours for rest and refresh-
ment, but the transportation of live cattle that are intended for beef
should be entirely abolished by law, and abattoirs established wherever
large herds of cattle are usually shipped. The cattle should be killed
by the most humane methods at these places and the beef transported
in refrigerator cars instead of transporting the live animals, which alone
is a cause of great suffering. Getting them on and off the trains alarms
them, and the journey fatigues them even when cars are made as com-
fortable as possible.

It may be said that the laws we have suggested are impossible.
Nothing is impossible which it is right to do. Ice can be manufactured
in every state, and refrigerator cars can always be furnished. It is per-
fectly plain that the beef under such circumstances would be much more
ﬁt for human consumption than under present circumstances when it is
impossible to prevent the cattle from enough discomfort during a long
journey to produce more or less of a fevered physical condition. Terror
and fatigue cannot be avoided, and from truthful accounts from eye-
witnesses we must believe that in the majority of instances hunger and
thirst are added to the suffering the cattle endure in travelling by rail.
The cost of beef under these improved conditions might be increased,
but when one considers the immense amount of suffering that would be
remedied, also the fact that very little of the beef we have now is health-
ful food for the consumer on account of the way in which the cattle are
treated before being killed, it certainly is worth making a great effort
to bring about such reforms as we have mentioned.

As the work is now carried on humane societies in every state
Where cattle pass through and stop even for a short time should be on
the watch as to the condition of the cattle in the trains. As a matter of
fact not one humane society in a hundred keeps an agent on the lookout,
and laws that are made are continually disregarded. -

The American Humane Association makes an appeal that more
humane laws shall be made to protect these defenceless animals from so
much suffering. It appeals also to every humane society to do its duty
in this great work which has a bearing not only on the suffering of ani-
mals but on the general welfare of the human race.

How to unload Cattle

Mr. Doty, the agent of the American Humane Association, desires
to recommend most heartily an excellent and simple device in use in
the stock yards of Omaha, which all managers of stock yards ought to
adopt. At all the yards he visited, with this one exception, there was
much difﬁculty experienced in unloading cars filled with cattle. The
common method is this: the car is stopped so that the door is opposite
the mouth of the chute. In order to induce the cattle to descend from

 

AAA—JAAI—Jd—‘AH




 

The Nativity. 7371104

Dr. Talmage Preaches a Sermon Appropri=
ate to the Season.

* ii: * 5E * *

Behold, in the first place, that on the ﬁrst
night of Christ’s life God honored the brute
creation. You cannot get into the Bethlehem
barn without going past the camels, the. mules,
the dogs, the oxen. The brutes of that stable
heard the ﬁrst cry of the infant Lord. Some
of the old painters represent the oxen and
camels kneeling that night before the new-born
babe. And well might they kneel! Have you
ever thought that Christ came, among other
things, to alleviate the sufferings of the brute
creation? Was it not appropriate that He
should, during the ﬁrst few days and nights
of llis life on earth, be surrounded by the
dumb brasts, whose moan and plaint and
bellowing have for ages been a prayer to God

for the arresting of their tortures and the right-

ing of their wrongs? It did not merely “happen
so” that the unintelligent creatures of God
should have been that night in close neighbor-
.lood.

\Not a kennel in all the enturies, not a bird’s
nest, not a worn-out horse on tow-path, not a
herclfreez'ing in the poorly built cow-pen, not a
freight car in the summer time bringing the
hooves to market without water through a
thousand miles of agony, not a surgeon’s room
witnessedﬁthe struggles of for, or rabbit, or
pigeon, or (log in the horrors of rivisection, but
has an interest in the fact that Christ was born
in a stable surrmcncled by brutes. He remembers
that night and the prayer He heard in their
pitiful moan He will answer in the punishment of
those who malt/Wit the (lamb brutes. They surely

have as much right in this world as we have. 3

In the in st chapter of Genesis you may see that 1

they were placed on the earth before man was,
the ﬁsh and fowl creates". the ii f th day, and the
quadrupeds the morning of the sixth day,
and man not until the afternoon of that day.
The whale, the eagle, the lion, and all the lesser
creatures of their kind were the predecessors
of the human family. They have the world by
right of possession.
for the places they occupied. What an army of.
defense all over the land are the faithful watch-
dogs. And who can tell what the world owes to
the horse, and camel, and ox, for transportation?
And robin and lark have, by the cantatas with
which the}r have tilled orchard and forest, more
than paid for the few grains they have picked
up for their sustenance. \Vhen you abuse any
creature of God you strike its Creator, and you
insult the Christ, who though He might have
been welcomed into life by princes and taken
His ﬁrst infantile slumber amid Tyrian plush

and canopied couches, and rippling waters

, _. V..- ..,_ . v.— ._ ..— e. _ _ .,

They have also paid rent ‘

;

’1

 

 

rds a man stands at the mouth of the
3them up and drive them down the
i of the cattle is tobe afraid of the
back, huddle against each other, and

""" " to leave the car.

At Omaha a

ne ground and running parallel
f the track opposite the chute
sition and its door is opposite
g the plank and with his stick

3/

each .

(3,

ch .

3”:
ie.
Throne,

1,

”

As in this method the cattle

with the stick, very little
1t this method saves time

s and other places where
; been discovered. Some
nple, are wholly unﬁt for
no shelter or other provi-
have visited these islands
)n have found the sheep
the rams on the outside,
1g bodies to keep life in

.ife are evident on these
in the effort to ﬁnd some
For food some are caught
ozen into the ice on the
extricate themselves, and

5 two years ago was esti-
:r it was found that two
in. Some of the islands
ers provide carefully for
who cannot make com-

ipelled by law to give up

ase is too early shearing.
its before the cold spring
.e, they suffer extremely,
a lung diseases. In this
s sell them in the market
anecessary suffering that
ightlessness, indifference
ring out of this business.
3 and wool at the lowest
‘y inadequate. All who
)urfooted friends should
and to see that they are

& ’/’7/\éA/\/”/

l/

 

 




 

 

More instead of Less Humane Laws

In the light of these duly attested‘facts‘
to ask that more instead of less humane la

throughout the United States referring
tion of cattle?
keep a larger herd of cattle or sheep

shelter and food when there is no pastL
various methods, and shelter need not 1
they need to be unloaded every twenty

ment, but the transportation of live

should be entirely abolished by law, a
large herds of cattle are usually ship}

by the most humane methods at thes

in refrigerator cars instead of transpor enough for three.

is a cause of great suffering. Getting
them, and the journey fatigues them
fortable as possible.

It may be said that the laws vx
Nothing is impossible which it is rigl
in every state, and refrigerator cars 0
fectly plain that the beef under such
ﬁt for human consumption than undt
impossible to prevent the cattle frorr
journey to produce more or less of a
and fatigue cannot be avoided, and
witnesses we must believe that in the
thirst are added to the suffering the
The cost of beef under these impro1
but when one considers the immense
remedied, also the fact that very littlr
ful food for the consumer on account
treated before being killed, it certai
to bring about such reforms as we hz

As the work is now carried
where cattle pass through and stop
the watch as to the condition of the
fact not one humane society in a hu

There should be a law

A

A - 1.1..“

'the other, I cry, look out how you strike the rowel
J'nto the horse’s side. Take 017‘ that curbed bit
from that bleeding mouth. Remove that saddle
from that raw bach‘. Shoot not for fun that bird
that is too small for food. Forget not to put
water into the cage of that canary. Throw
out some crumbs to those birds caught too far

 

north in the winter’s inclemency. rrest that man
who is making that one horse draw a load heavy
Rush in upon that scene where
bogs are torturing a cat or transﬁring butterﬂy
and grasshopper. Drive not otl‘ that old robin,
for her nest is a mother’s cradle, and under her
wing there may be three or four musicians of
the sky in training. In your families and in
your schools, teach the coming generation more
mercy than the present generation has ever
shown, and in this marvelous Bible picture of
the Nativity, while you point out to them the
angel, show them also the camel, and while
they hear the celestial chant, let them also hear
the cow’s moan. No more did Christ Show
interest in the botanical world when he said,
“Consider the lilies,” than he showed for the
ornithological when he said, “Behold the fowls of
the air,” and the quadrupedal world when
He allowed himself to be called in one place a

lion and in another place a lamb. Meanwhile

may the Christ of the Bethlehem cattle-pen

have mercy on the suffering stock yards, that

are preparing diseased and fevered meat for

car American households.

-—_—‘—_

 

and laws that are made are continu

humane laws shall be made to protect
much suffering.

How to unload Cattle

Mr. Doty, the agent of the American
to recommend most heartily an excellent

the stock yards of Omaha, which all
adopt

the mouth of the chute. In order to

 

 

 

ally cusre
The American Humane Association

It appeals also to every h
in this great work which has a bearing not 0‘
mals but on the general welfare of the hum

At all the yards he visited, with tl
much difﬁculty experienced in unloading c
common method is this: the car is stopped

these

J

manag

induc 1

from royal aqueducts dripping into basins of
Standing then, as I imagine now I do, in
that Bethlehem night,with an infant Christ on the

ivory and pearl, chose to be born on a level
with a cow’s horn, or a camel’s hoof, or a

dog’s nostril, that He might be the alleviation of
animal suffering, as well as the Redeemer of

man.
one side and the speechless creatures of God on

  
 

r
. f

 

l
9
l
3

 

  

 

 

    




I N ‘9 N N

the car through the chute to the yards a man stands at the mouth of the
chute with a prod or stick to stir them up and drive them down the
chute. Naturally the ﬁrst instinct of the cattle is tobe afraid of the
man with the stick, so they draw back, huddle against each other, and
have to be forced by shouts and blows to leave the car. At Omaha a
plank at the height of‘ a few feet above the ground and running parallel
with the track has been built on the side of the track opposite the chute
and the yard. When a loaded car is in position and its door is opposite
the mouth of the chute, a man walks along the plank and with his stick
urges the cattle to mmm towards the dnm‘ As in this method the cattle

 

 

The Speechless.

BY ANNA DRURY, (England)

 

.—

Ye call them dumb, and deem it well,
How e’er their burs tingﬁhear ts may swell,
They have no voice their woes to tell,

As fabulists have dreamed.
They cannot cry “0 Lord how long
Will Thou, the patient Judge and strong,
Behold Thy creatures suffer wrong

Of these Thy blood redeemed?”

Yet are they silent? need they speech
His Holy sympathies to reach.
Who by their lips could prophets teach,

And for their sakes would spare;
When, Wrestling with His own decree,
To save repentant Ninevah.
He found to strengthen mercy’s plea,

So “many cattle” there

Have they no language? Angels know

Who take account of every blow :

And there are angel hearts below,

On whom the Eternal Dove

His penticostal gift hath poured,

And that forgotten speech restored
That ﬁlled the garden of the Lord

When Nature’s voice was love

Oh, blest are they the creatures bless!

, And yet that wealth of tenderness,

In look, in gesture, in caress,
By which our hearts they teach.
Might well the thoughtful spirit griere,
Believing—as we must believe—-
How little they from man receive .
To whom they give so much.

They may be silent, as ye say.
But Woe to them who, day by day,
llnthinking for what boon they pray,

Rep t's‘Thy kingdom come.”
“7110, when before the Great White Throne,
Shall plead that mercy may be shown,
Find awful voices drown their own,

The voices of the dumb.

.————___.

with the stick, very little
t this method saves time

s and other places where
been discovered. Some
hple, are wholly unﬁt for

ho shelter or other provi-
have visited these islands

pn have found the sheep
athe rams on the outside,
lg bodies to keep life in

ife are evident on these
in the effort to ﬁnd some
:or food some are caught
ozen into the ice on the
extricate themselves, and

5 two years ago was esti-
:r it was found that two
pm. Some of the islands
ers provide carefully for
; who cannot make com-

hpelled by law to give up

 

ase is too early shearing.
its before the cold spring
LC, they suffer extremely,
11' lung diseases. In this
s sell them in the market
nnecessary suffering that
Jghtlessness, indifference
ring out of this business.
3 and wool at the lowest
'y inadequate. All who
)urfooted friends should
and to see that they are

ﬂ/M c“
if

 




 

the car through the chute to the yards a man stands at the mouth of the
chute with a prod or stick to stir them up and drive them down the
chute. Naturally the ﬁrst instinct of the cattle is tobe afraid of the
man with the stick, so they draw back, huddle against each other, and
have to be forced by shouts and blows to leave the car. At Omaha a
plank at the height of‘ a few feet above the ground and running parallel
With the track has been built on the side of the track opposite the chute
and the yard. When a loaded car is in position and its door is opposite
the mouth of the chute, a man walks along the plank and with his stick
urges the cattle to move towards the door. As in this method the cattle
move away from instead of toward the man with the stick, very little
persuasion is needed. Mr. Doty reports that this method saves time
and much unnecessary cru‘elty.

A Few Facts about Sheep

By careful inquiry and by visiting islands and other places where
sheep are kept a great amount of suffering has been discovered. Some
of the islands on the coast of Maine, for example, are wholly unﬁt for
keeping sheep, during the winter, there being no shelter or other provi-
sion made for their comfort. Fishermen who have visited these islands
in the winter to supply themselves with mutton have found the sheep
huddled together, the lambs in the centre and the rams on the outside,
the stronger ones trying by their own shivering bodies to keep life in
the weaker ones of the flock.

Pathetic evidences of their struggle for life are evident on these
islands where the snow is trampled and dug up in the effort to ﬁnd some
herbage underneath. In pursuit of seaweed for food some are caught
and carried out to sea and others are found frozen into the ice on the
shore in such a manner that they could not extricate themselves, and
they have died in this miserable manner.

The number of sheep on the Maine islands two years ago was esti—
mated at twenty thousand, and of this number it was found that two
thousand died every year of cold and starvation. Some of the islands
are well sheltered by trees and the sheep owners provide carefully for
the needs of the sheep. Those sheep owners who cannot make com-
fortable provision for their sheep should be compelled by law to give up
the business. .

Another great cause of suffering and disease is too early shearing.
When the sheep are deprived of their warm coats before the cold spring
winds and storms are over, as is often the case, they suffer extremely,
and many of them become ill with bronchial or lung diseases. In this
diseased condition it is known that their owners sell them in the market
for food. Few persons have any idea of the unnecessary suffering that
sheep as well as cattle endure through the thoughtlessness, indifference
or cupidity of the men who are making their living out of this business.
Consumers as a rule care only to get meat, hides and wool at the lowest
possible price. Legislation on the subject is very inadequate. All who
are in favor of humane treatment of our useful fourfooted friends should
unite in the attempt to get better laws passed and to see that they are
enforced.

. /"

'1’“ ’7 1/”3 /--/
é). v/Wg/

 




The American Humane Association

Societies of the United States Organized for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children and Animals

JAMES M. BROWN, President, Gardner Building, Toledo, Ohio. .
SYDNEY RICHMOND TABER, Secretary, 532 Monadnock Block, Chicago. .
WALTER BUTLER, Treasurer, 814 Tacoma Building, Chicago.

' EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

 

 

Mrs. Caroline Earle White, Chairman, Mrs. Mary F. Rogers ............ Louisville, Ky.
Philadelphia, Pa. Mrs. Mary H. Totten ........ Washington, D. C-
John G. Shortall ................... Chicago, Ill. Mrs. Huntington Smith ........... Boston. Mass-
John T. Dale ....................... Chicago, Ill. Miss Cecilia Ritter ................ Cincmnatr, 0.
Mrs. A. L. Barber“ ........... Washington, D. C. Joseph G. Walter ................ Pittsburgh, Pa.
Robert J. Wilkin ............... Brooklyn, N. Y. Rev. Francis H. Rowley, D. D. Brookline; Mass.
Mrs. Mary F. Lovell ............ Bryn Mawr, Pa. W. O. Stillman, M. D ............ Albany, N. Y.
Miss Sarah J. Eddy ............ Providence, R. I. and the President. '
Albert Lefﬁngwell, M. D .......... Aurora, N. Y.

The American Humane Association was organized at Cleveland, Ohio, in the
year eighteen hundred and seventy-seven. A call had been issued some weeks pre-
viously, inviting representatives of all the leading humane societies of the country to
meet for the purpose of considering “ the maltreatment of animals in transit between
the East and the West.” This call was sent out by Mr. John G. Shortall of Chicago,-
President of the Illinois Humane Society. Twenty-two delegates from nine states
answered the invitation. .

The United States law then governing the care of live stock while being trans-
ported had been enforced by no state society; each had acted under the laws of its
own state. The need was felt of a national organization to deal with a trafﬁc that
was classed in the Constitution as “Interstate.” Representatives of the Association
were sent to Washington, where every lawful inﬂuence was brought to bear upon Con-
gress to obtain more humane legislation. Time and money were freely given by gen~
erous friends of the cause to further the work of Such legal enactments as should
make impossible existing cruelties. Agents were sent out over all the lines of railway
transporting cattle, and full reports made of the abuses that prevailed, and of the suf-
ferings endured by helpless creatures destined for the markets of this and other lands.

The Association soon offered a prize of $5,000 for the best model of a cattle car
that would make possible feeding, watering and resting of live stock in transit. The
result was the calling into existence a large number of improved cars which have
done much to revolutionize this whole branch of industry now so great a factor in, the
world’s commerce. To the Association belongs the honor of the greater part of what
has been accomplished in securing more humane methods of transporting the millions
of animals that are carried across the several states and to the seaboard.

Its work, however, could not be limited to this one department of endeavor.
All societies interested in relieving the suffering of animals and fostering the senti-
ment of kindness were asked to become members of the Association, and to meet
with it in annual session to confer upon such matters as were of common concern.
Later still the necessity was felt. of. uniting with the Societies for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children, so that now for many years it may be said that the purposegof
the American Humane Association has been that of a federation of all the local
humane Societies of the United States. The Association undertakes to act, on behalf
of its constituent members, in matters involving wider interests than those the local
- organization can well subserve. It is impossible for any local humane society, how-
ever zealous, to secure from the public that respectful hearing concerning national
abuses, which abundant experience has shown will be accorded a national association.

Still further, the Association includes in it annual reports, summaries of the
work done by local organizations, and sends them all over the civilized world, wher-
ever humane societies exist. It is thus able to give annually to the world some idea
of the extent to which prevention of cruelty to animals and children in the United
States is being carried.

The funds by which the Association is enabled to carry on its work in these many
departments of activity are the voluntary gifts of those whose hearts are interested in
the cause it represents. It therefore very earnestly asks the ﬁnancial ‘aid of any
reader of this leaﬂet who would assist in lessening the sufferings of the defenceless
' children and animals whose friend and champion it can” never cease to be.

NOTE.— This leaﬂet can be obtained from the Humane Education Committee, 29
Exchange Street, Room 25, Providence, R. 1., or from Mrs. Huntington Smith, 295
Washington Street, Boston, Mass. Price, 10 cents for twelve copies, or 75 cents per
hundred.

u -, "mug. , «,.A.~v.M«=-m»no’.«'w—. .. - ~ ~-~" “

 

 

 




An Appeal

’ FROM THE HORSES
TO THE SUMMER VISITORS.

1"] .V‘ . 'l

 

   

‘ CURES FOR HORSES. -

Do not hitch or leave horses to face sun or wind. They feel all
such miseries just as WE would. Keep them in the shade at home
and abroad, when possible. Also give them fresh grass whlle 1t
4. grows. .It is Nature’s best medicine and restorer, and often'cures
‘ sick and tired-out horses, and makeswell ones happy. They need,
crave and deserve it- God made it for them, and He W111 “surely
bless and reward you for all you do for His helpless, dumb children,
who are OUR loyal, loving servants, friends and colleagues. For us
they tOil and die. Millions of acres of grass by the wayside, 1n all . i
l our states, go to waste every year, which could be utlllzed .for . -'

horses, cows and mules. Thousands of cows are cruelly and idlot-

ically kept in barns all summer IN THE COUNTRY, with grass
around them too. When horses gnaw trees and eat leaves, 1t 1s ' -

because they crave grass and need it. , It is the same to them. that
. fresh Vegetables and fruit are to US in spring. A noted veterinary
surgeon says: “Give horses grass when tired or sick. '. It beats
medicine all to pieces.” Also try the rest cure for tired. Sle
horses, and the KINDNESS cure for ALL horses, thus maklng them
happy, healthy and valuable. “W The
famous London Horse Book well says: “The check-rem is an Instru-
ment of torture and a device of the devil.”

 

 

 

 

The drivers naturally wish t7 H 7 if if N
0 please those who hire the1
all have the courage to do what they know to be right 11, and not

It will help us grQatl 'f .
load, some Of You will lighten our task by walking. eP 1118 Wlth a heavy

Stopping a few moments on th

. e wa at th t ° ' ~

scenery Wlll often give us a much neededyrest. e 0P Of a hill to 911103’ th€
Well—011ed axles will save much of our strength

Do not encourage drivers to race with each other

//
I“

I

(\(OVER)

 

 




  

An Appeal

 
   
 

FROM THE HORSES
TO THE SUMMER VISITORS.

' 7W
. jg /

While driving for pleasure and enjoying the beautiful scenery, we

pray you to consider us, without whom this enjoyment would not be pos-
‘ sible.

There is very much that you can do to protect us, your willing ser-
vants, from unnecessary suffering and permanent injury. ‘

It is true that our o'wners must keep us through the year, and we are
willing to work hard and earn as much as we can for them during the
short season that you are here, but we appeal to you to try to create a
public sentiment that will protect us from abuse whilevwe are doing our
best to minister to your pleasure. I .

If you would refuse to ride in any couoeyauce that is overloaded, or
behind those of us who have had the misfortune to become lame, and if
you would encourage our drivers to consider us, and not urge them to
whip us or drwe too fast a very different state of things would soon
exist. , ‘

Please use your inﬂuence to prevent our being driven again when
we have already done a hard day 5 work. .

Fast driving, and too many hours of work, injure us more in one
day than weeks of hard'work with kind management.

Do not overload our buckboards or "other carriages; it is often on ac-
count of your Want of thought and not from the fault of the drivers that
we are overloaded. ~

The drivers naturally wish to please those who hire them, and not
all have the courage to do what they know to be right.

It will help us greatly if, when we come to steep hills with a. heavy
load, some of you will lighten our task by walking.

Stopping a few moments on the way at the top of a hill to enjoy the'
scenery will often give us a much needed rest.

Well-oiled axles will save much of our strength.

Do not encourage driVers to race with each other.

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

 

DEAR FRIENDS

 

/

COVER)

   
 

    
 




 

 

 

 

. ”(2’ .5
Remember that we need and enjoy a drink of fresh viiatxerusfe‘ry often.
Before riding us, please see that our sa Lgs ﬁt Mrgmd atha our

backs are not sore, and teach your young sons and' daughters that there IS
a limit to the endurance of a horse; that the constan‘jﬁst ,rid1n0' or drive: :3
ing which IS a delight to them often mean great suffering to us.

. When hiring your horses, please discourage the barbarons practice
of docking, by giving the preference to those of us who have not been
mutilated and doomed to life long suffering from ﬂies and other insects.

. We also appeal to our owners.

If any of you think that you must use the instrument of torture
called the “overcheck rem,” do kindly lessen our sufferings by loosening
it while we stand waiting for you.

We are glad to learn that it is becoming unfashionable, and that
some Of our ﬁnest horses no. longer wear it.

We can do more work and go further and faster with our heads free.

What a comfort it would be if we could get rid of those blinders
which dazzle and injure our eyes, and often cause us to stumble!

We are told that in some European countries they are never used.

When you ﬁnd that we do not eat well, please examine our teeth and
see if they have become long or sharp and are lacerating our mouths.
They may need ﬁling down, which a veterinary surgeon can do in a few
minutes.

Do not forget that to drive us fast down hill is dangerous, besides
. often injuring our feet and knees.

Please remember that there are days when we do not feel well, there—
fore do not expect us always: to go as fast as you would like.

Constantly urging us when we are already doing our best, and snap—
ping the whip when we are standing still is irritating to us and does no
good.

If there is in this place an Agent of the Society for the “Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals,” we beg that you will report to him any case of
cruelty, and that you will in every way encourage and aid all those
friends of ours who sustain societies for our protection.

You can obtain humane literature to distribute by writing to GEO. T.
ANGELL., 19 MILK STREET, BOSTON, MAss., and to M. L. HALL, 126
RIDGE STREET, PROVIDENCE, R. I.

Hoping that you will consider our appeal,

Respectfully submitted by your friends,
THE HORSES.

 

Price 30 cents. per hundred copies, postage paid. Address: M. L. Hall, 126 Ridge
Street, Providence, R. I.

 

 

 

 




