 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

Dear Member,

Just a note to ask you to be
sure to let me know if you plan
to come. As you can see from
the enclosed invitation, the
Ambassador of Sweden and
Countess Wachtmeister have most
generously invited us all to
the Swedish Embassy for the
Schweitzer Medal ceremony and
reception. As space is limit-
ed, there will be a list at

the door of people who have
accepted. Only those who have
let us know in advance that
they are coming can be admitted.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens

 




The Directors of the Animal Welfare Institute
, request the pleasure of your company

at the presentation of the
Albert Schweitzer Medal

to Michael F. Tillman

by Jason Robards
on Tuesday, the third of May
at six o’clock

1686 34th Street, N .W.

Washington, DC. 20007

Please call 202 337-2332 A reception will follow
if you can come the cermony

 




 




Minnie Minnie Morac and Follerinsko (familiarly known as Minnie and
Follow) were starving strays taken in one Christmas, and they became
AWI’s mascots for many years.

Dear Friend of the Animal Welfare Institute:

Thank you very much for your kind contribution. It will be put to
work promptly to help animals, both domestic and wild.

AWI campaigns vigorously for creatures great and small both at home
and abroad. Your help is greatly appreciated!

Sincerely,

(ﬁg-£35m

Christine Stevens
President

 




Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

0:7 PnnLcd on

%& Recycled Paper

 




+ .THE' ANIMAL 'WELFAREINSTITUTE
no. gorse-50, Washington, Dc. (264007 '

 

Dear Friend _ . . .
Welcome to membership in the Animal Welfare Institute. Your membership Card,

' a listing of AWI publications and videos, and information on our companion -. ‘

organization, the Society for Animal FrOtective LegislationQ are enclosed.
As a member, you will receive the following beneﬁts: Q

I A year' s subscription to The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
I An invitation to the presentation ceremony of the Albert SchWeitzer ‘ '
'. -. AWard and to the reception in honor (If the recipient "
I The Opportunity to obtain a single free copy of new AWI books and other
» publications as they are issued ” ' ,
' . I Interim special information mailings abotrt whales
I. * An annual report ., .

Book selections currently available to new members are: (Flease check one)

Whales Versus Whalers
- Beyond the Laboratory Door ~ .. Q ' '
The Bird Business A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird Trade
Flight to Extinction: The Wild-Caught Bird Trade-
”F First Aid and Care of Small Animals
Factory Farming. The Experiment That Failed
Animals and Their Legal Rights

$2.29anpr

Christine Stevens ' Q
PreSident

(Name
Address I. . '. _ . r ,

'Cityi' Q . 7 " ,_Sta_te._____.__'zip. ’
1 If you wish to receive notices fromwour companion organization; the Society for Animal
' Protective Legislation about how to help obtain arIirnal protective laws, check here. [:I

 

 




DR. SCHWEITZER'S MESSAGE TO
THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

I am profoundly moved that you would like to give
my name to the medal you have created. I give you
this right with all my heart. I would never have
believed that my philosophy, which incorporates in
our ethics a compassionate attitude toward all crea-
tures, would be noticed and recognized in my life-
time. I knew that this truth would impose itself one
day on human thought, but it is the great and mov—
ing surprise of my life that I should still be able to
witness this progress of ethics.

Your medal celebrates this progress; philosophy
obliged to intervene for animals when up till now it
has shown so little interest in them.

Lambaréné
May 2, 1951

Logo design by Cachalot Design Group
Marblehead, Massachusetts

” .i 4' y ’ "
It, 3 2
, " > -. I R.

/ ,M
PUBLICATIONS
AND
VIDEOS

AVAILABLE FROM THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO BOX 3650, Washington, DC 20007

 

 

 

 

 

(i‘
\/ ‘

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

 




HUMANE EDUCATION

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
Reports on treatment of animals in laboratories,
commercial trade, factory farms, and traplines.
Free to libraries. To others, one year subscription $15.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights
US. legislation, with appendices on important for-
eign laws. AWI, fourth edition, 441 pages, 1990.
One copy free to libraries, police and humane
societies. To others $ 8.00

The Neighbours
Anthology of animal poems, illustrated by Fougasse,
117 pages. UFAW.

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
by Major C.W. Hume, OBE, M.C. B.Sc., London,
illustrated by Fougasse. 100 pages. UFAW. $ 4.00

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer
by Ann Cottrell Free. 93 pages, illustrated. AWI
and others. Revised edition, 1988. $ 5.00

Man and Beast
by CW. Hume, illustrated by Fougasse. 222 pages.
UFAW. Second edition, 1982. $ 5.00

The Schweitzer Medalists
The medal has been presented for an outstanding
contribution to animal welfare from 1955 on. Free

Childhood Cruelty Toward Animals Among
Criminals and Noncriminals
by Stephen Kellert and Allen Felthouse. 16 — page
study reprinted from Human Relations, Vol. 38, No.
12. Documents a link between childhood cruelty to
animals and adult violent crimes. 1985.

TRAPPING

Facts About Furs
by Greta Nilsson and others. AWI revised edition,
1980. 257 pages of information on the way furs are
obtained throughout the world. 79 illustrations; 18
appendices. $10.00

Trapping Agony
The views of Charles Darwin on the cruelty of the
steel jaw leghold trap. Reprinted from Defenders
Magazine. April, 1980.

The Role of Cage and Box Traps in MOdern Trap-
ping, 19 pages, 1988. The Role of Spring Powered
Killing Traps in Modern Trapping, 24 pages; The
Role of Legsnares in Modern Trapping, 20 pages;
by Tom Garrett (all are illustrated). AWI, 1990. Each $ 3.00

A Survey of Opinions of US. Citizens on the Use of

the Steel Jaw Leghold Trap
Conducted by Stephen Kellert, Ph.D., Yale School
of Forestry and Environmental Studies 1979. In-
cludes a list of nations that have banned this trap. Free

ATTITUDES TOWARD ANIMALS

Good Kind Lion
Illustrated by Fougasse, for primary grades.
4pages. UFAW. .25

Kittens and Cats
For primary grades. 12 pages, with pictures suit-
able for coloring. Humane Society of Huron Val-
ley. One copy free to teachers, librarians and hu-
mane societies. To others

You and Your Dog
For primary grades. 16 pages, with pictures suit-
able for coloring. Humane Society of Huron Val-
ley. One copy free on request to teachers, librar-
ians, humane societies. To others 8: additional
copies

Better Nutrition Studies
by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article
from The American Biology Teacher, 3 pages.

Attitudes Towards Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher, 3 pages.

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects
by F.Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from
The American Biology Teacher.

Alternatives that Don't Harm or Destroy Animals
One page.

Humane Rules For Canadian Science Fairs
One page.

LABORATORY ANIMALS

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
Illustrated manual for those planning to build,
remodel or re-equip animal quarters. AWI re-
vised edition, 1979. 108 pages, 165 illustrations.

One copy free to scientific institutions,
veterinarians, or architects. To others $ 5.00

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental
Animals: A Review of Scientific Literature from 1975-

197 8 by Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel

Peacock, MD. AWI, 1979. 195 pages. $ 5.00

Beyond the Laboratory Door
Continues the above review, 1978-1984, and in-
cludes two new sections: "Unjustifiable by any
Standard" (citing USDA reports of laboratory in-
spections) and "Photographs of Experimental
Animals," AWI, 1985. 266 pages. 35 5.00

Mistreatment of Laboratory Animals Endangers
Biomedical Research

Commentar from Christine Stevens, Nature, Vol.

311, Septem er 27, 1984. Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from
Animal Models 0 Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic
Diseases. Nationa Academy of Sciences, 1976.
8 pages. Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The
Future of Animals, Cells, Models, and S stems in
Research, Development, Education, an Testing.
National Academy of Sciences, 1977. 9 pages.

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Text of the 1985 amendments to the Animal Wel-
fare Act from The Congressional Record, Vol.131,
No. 175.

A Bibliogra by for the Use of Non-affiliated
Members 0 Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committees
Annotated. Includes books on alternatives to
animals, laws and regulations, training
courses, and the psychological well-being
of primates. AWI.

Excerpts from: Housing, Care and Psychological
Wellbeing of Captive and Laboratory Primates,
A 544-page book edited by Evalyn F. Segal, Noyes
Publications. Contains quotations from 50 lead-
ing primatologists and other scientists, 3 pages,
1989. Free

WILDLIFE

The Endangered Species Handbook
by Greta Nilsson. 244 pages, illustrated. Contains
projects for classrooms and science fairs. AWI,
1986. One copy free to teachers and librarians.
To others $ 10.00

Rare, Threatened and Endangered Species of
Mammals, Birds, Reptiles and Amphibians
of the World
Listing from Red Data Books, CITES, the US. En-
dangered Species Act and state laws. AWI, 1986.
One copy free to teachers and libraries. To others
and additional copies $ 2.00

Importation of Birds Into The United States In 1985
by Greta Nilsson. 203 pages including tables.
With Discussion of Recent Developments and
Research in the Cage Bird Trade . AWI, 1989. $ 5.00

Importation of Birds Into The United States 1986-1988
by Greta N ilsson. 287 pages. A continuation of the
report listed above. AWI, 1990. $ 5.00

Help Us Stop This Cruelty
Full color brochure on the the bird trade. AWI, 1989.
Up to 10 copies available free. Additional copies .25

The Trade in Live Wildlife
Report by the Environmental Investigation Agency
on trade in birds and other wildlife. 36 pages illus-
trated in color. 1987. $ 5.00

Flight toExtinction, The Wild-Caught Bird Trade
Reportby the Environmental Investigation Agency and
AWI. 27 pages, 31 color photographs. 1992. $ 5.00

The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial
Cage Bird Trade
by Greta Nilsson. Foreword by S. Dillon Ripley.
AWI, 1981. 121 pages, illustrated in black and
white and color. One copy free to libraries.
To others it 5.00

A System of Extinction, The African Elephant Disaster
A report by the Environmental Investigation
Agency. 48 pages, illustrated in color, 1989 $ 5.00

Under Fire - Elephants in the Front Line
A second report with color photographs and maps
by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 57
pages, 1992. $ 6.00

Save the Elephants Longsleeve T-Shirt
Artwork by Christine Stevens with message in the
4 three CITES languages (English, French and Span-
ish). White with black print, adult sizes M, L, XL
only (specify artwork on front 0 or back 0 ). $14.00

The African Elephant
A fact sheet exposing Zimbabwe's false claims on
their elephant populations. Free

First Aid and Care of Small Animals
by Ernest P. Walker. Designed for use by teachers
in primary and secondary schools. 52 pages. AWI
second edition, 1980. One copy free to teachers,

librarians, humane societies and scout
leaders. To others 33 3.00

FACTORY FARMING

Factory Farming: The Experiment that Failed
Compilation of AWI Quarterly articles
showing intensive rearing of calves, sows,
and hens and alternative practical methods.
New text and photographs. 86 pages. AWI, 1987.

One copy free to libraries and humane
societies. Others $ 5.00

How Astrid Lindgren Achieved Enactment of the

1988 Law Protecting Farm Animals in Sweden
A selection of articles and letters published in
Expressen, Stockholm, from1985-1989. AWI,1989.
27 pages. it 3.00

 




 

F Animal Welfare Institute

PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007

I wish to become a non-voting member of the
Animal Welfare Institute

0 $500 Benefactor

O $25 to $100 Supporting

O $5 Student or Senior Citizen
(Subscription to The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly included)

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE ___.__

0 $100 Patron
0 $15 Regular

 

 

 

INSTITUTION

 

Please send me the items marked for which I enclose

 

(DC residents add 6% sales tax to all orders).
All orders should be accompanied by payment. To lower
expenses, an acknowledgement of your gift will be sent only
upon request. 0 Please send me a receipt.
Teachers please use school letterhead and indicate grade
level. We regret that only reprints and leaﬂets can be pro—

 

 

vided free to student teachers.

VIDEOS

Video rentals are subject to availability. Please reserve in ad-
vance. All video rentals require a $25.00 refundable deposit
(please enclose a separate check) and are available for one week.

Where Have All The Dolphins Gone ?
Video documenting the dolphin slaughter with
undercover footage. Narrated by George C. Scott.
Marine Mammal Fund. 48 minutes. $10.00

 

The Earthtrust Driftnet Expedition
Video showing entanglement of marine mammals
and birds in driftnets. Earth Island Institute, 25
minutes. $ 5.00

Canada's Shame
Video showing suffering of animals caught in leghold
traps. The Fur-Bearers. 15 minutes. $1 0.00

Gregory Peck Speaks Against Leghold Traps
Society for Animal Protective Legislation. PSA for
loan to television stations only. Free

Down on the Factory Farm
Video produced by the BBC documenting cruel
confinement and showing alternative housing sys-
tems. 50 minutes. $ 5.00

Laboratory Dogs
Video showing humane care and housing of do sin
an ex erimental surgery laboratory. Produce by
Craw ey Films. $10.00

 

 

 

 

SAVE THE WHALES

Strandings: Ways to Save Whales, A humane
conservationist's guide
by Frank Robson. Includes step-by-step instructions to
assist stranded marine mammals. Hardcover, 123
pages. Over 70 illustrations. Science Press, 1984. $16.00

The Global War Against Small Cetaceans 1 & 2
Documentation of the hundreds of thousands of
dolphins, porpoises and small whales that are shot,
stabbed, gaffed, hooked, bombed, drowned, beached,
electrocuted and harpooned to death every year.
Environmental Investigation Agency, 56 & 63 pages,
illustrated in color, 1990 and 1991. Each volume $ 7.00

Whales vs. Whalers: A Continuing Commentary
Articles published from 1971 to 1990 in The
AWI Quarterly on national and international efforts
to prevent the extinction of whales.

 

 

Save the Whales and the Dolphins
A ﬂier describing the many threats to the survival of
whales and dolphins and offering suggestions of
what you can do to help.

What Dolphins Are Teaching Us About Communica-
tion, a New Age Interview with Frank Robson
by Jim Nollman, a five-page discussion with the
authorof Strandings. Reprinted from New Age,
March, 1980.

How to Liven Up Your Classroom with a Pod of Whales
For teachers, 2 pages.

A Whale of a Friend
An ocean giant and man play together in an historic
happening. 4 pages. Reprint from The Toronto Star.

A Letter from a Whale
by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades. AWI,
4 pages. One copy free. Additional copies

Save the Whales Poster

Richard Ellis illustrations of the Great Whales. One
free, extras 3; 1.00

 

 

 

 

A full color print, measuring 20" x 26", from an original paintih‘gT
by Richard Ellis of two majestic cachalot whales, suitable for
framing is available to anyone donating $25 or more to the
Animal Welfare Institute‘s SAVE THE WHALES campaign.

NAME

 

 

 

ADDRESS
CITY
STATE ____ ZIP

 

 

0 Please send me the items marked above for which I enclose

$ . DONATION $_§____’/_ ‘
O Please send me a color print by Richard Ellis

(with $25.00 donation). ll’J

 

 

 

 

 

 




The Directors of the Animal Welfare Institute
request the honor of your presence
at the presentation of the
Schweitzer Medal for 1987
t0
Jane Goodall
by
Senator John Melcher
Wednesday, the second of December

five to seven o’clock

and at the reception following the ceremony

Room 216, Hart Senate Office Building

RSVP

Mrs. Roger Stevens

1686 34th Street, NW.

Washington, DC. 20007 Please use the Visitor’s Entrance
(202) 3372332 Second Street Between Constitution Avenue and C Street, NE.

 




l
r

//A r,

.ﬂ/yW/Wﬁmil’

 




THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

For outstanding contributions
to Animal Welfare

In 1954 a gold replica of the Medal was presented to Dr.
Albert Schweitzer by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, where Dr.
Schweitzer had gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize.

SCHWEITZER MEDALISTS

Dr. Robert Bay, veterinarian in charge of a colony
of 500 experimental beagles, whose humane treat-
ment of the animals exemplifies the purpose for
which the Medal was struck.*

Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B. Sc., M.I. Biol,
Director-General of the Universities Federation for
Animal Welfare, London, England, author, speaker,
Founder of U.F.A.W., which pioneered in enlisting
scientific efforts for animal welfare.

Paul Kearney, author of “The Case for Humane
Vivisection,” the first article in a national magazine
calling for humane treatment of research animals.

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, author of the first
humane slaughter bill introduced in the Congress
of the United States and Chief Senate Sponsor of

the Federal Humane Slaughter Act, passed in
1958.

Congressman W.R. Poage, Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, United States House of Rep-
resentatives, then Chairman of the Livestock and
Feed Grains Subcommittee and Chief House
Sponsor of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

Isobel Slater, M.B.E., Founder, and Chief Z.S.
Fundikira, President, Tanganyika Branch of the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, with 40,000 African members. Hon. G.
Mennen Williams presented the Medals in Africa.
In New York Hon. Adlai E. Stevenson made the
Schweitzer Award address.

William H.A. Carr, author, reporter, and animal
columnist.

Rachel Carson, author of Silent Spring.

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, whose dis-
covery and reporting on hundreds of Food and
Drug Administration test dogs perpetually caged in
a sub-basement led to Congressional action pro-
viding comfortable kennel runways for them.

 

*Dr. Bay later resigned after being refused permission by new management
to end the suffering of a beagle with 24 fractures.

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police
Force, whose prompt reporting on suffering and
neglect of experimental animals led to improve-
ments in their care.

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States Abe Fortas, author of the first Fed-
eral bill to require humane treatment of research
animals.

Senator Warren G. Magnuson and Senator A.S.
Mike Monroney, who sponsored and fought for
enactment of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act,
passed by a vote of 85 to 0 in the United States
Senate.

Dr. Francis Mulhern and Dr. Earl Jones of the
United States Department of Agriculture, who pre-
vented much suffering by enforcement of the
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

Dr. John Quinn, State Veterinarian, Michigan
Department of Agriculture, who created the first
Animal Welfare Committee of the United States
Animal Health Association.

Stan Wayman, Life photographer, whose “Con-
centration Camps for Dogs” and other picture
stories brought recognition to millions of people
that animals need protection.

Bob Cromie, whose hard-hitting columns against
cruel experiments by school children resulted in
Westinghouse science fair prizes being changed to
eliminate any experimentation on captive verte-
brates. The Medal was presented by Senator
Charles Percy.

Hon. Thomas Foley, who won enactment of the
Animal Welfare Act amendments of 1970 including
the requirement for “appropriate use of anesthetic,
analgesic and tranquilizing drugs” for experimental
animals. The Medal was presented by Senator
Warren D. Magnuson.

Russell Train, Chairman, President’s Council on
Environmental Quality, who obtained unanimous
adoption of a resolution for a ten-year international
moratorium on commercial whaling. The Medal
was presented by S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Scott McVay who obtained the listing of all the
great whales on the US. Endangered Species List.
The Medal was presented by Dr. Lee Talbot,
Senior Scientist, Council on Environmental Quality.

Dr. Lee Talbot, who successfully fought cruel poi-
sons spread on federal lands. The Medal was pre-
sented by Hon. Russell Train, Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency.

 




Fay Brisk, who uncovered cruelty and theft by
laboratory dog dealers in the 19605 and initiated
an animalport in Washington, DC. to help animals
transported by air. The Medal was presented by
Senator Lowell Weicker.

Daniel Oduber, President of Costa Rica, for out-
standing achievement in creating major national
parks, in Costa Rica, where wildlife can flourish.
The Medal presentation was by Senator Hubert H.
Humphrey.

Yoko Muto, animal caretaker at Tokyo University,
and representative of the Japan Animal Welfare
Society, for her seven years’ unstinting efforts to
allay the suffering of thousands of dogs used for
experimental surgery, by gentle, personal nursing
given each animal. The presentation was made by
Ambassador Mike Mansfield.

Shri H.M. Patel, Chairman of the Indian Board for
Wildlife, and author ofA Policy for National Con-
servation, for his contributions to wildlife conser-
vation and humane education as Indian Minister of
Finance.

Roger and Katharine Payne, for leadership in the
protection of whales, through observation of living
Humpback and Right whales. Medal presentation
by Senator Paul Tsongas.

Dr. Dallas Pratt for his landmark books, especially
Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on Animals.
Medal presented by Senator Mark Hatfield.

Senator Robert Dole whose leadership ensured
enactment of the 1985 Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals Act and of the 1978 humane
slaughter legislation.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

 




 

 

Swedish Farm Animals Get a Bill of Rights

By STEVE LOHR
Special to The New York Times

STOCKHOLM, Oct. 20 -— The
Swedish welfare state, long re-
nowned for its generosity and
scope, is extending its reach into a
new frontier: the barnyard.

in the last few months, Sweden
has begun putting in place a rights
program for farm animals that
may be the most stringent in the
world. Under an animal-welfare
law enacted in July, cattle, pigs
and chickens are being freed from
the restrictions of intensive, or fac~
tory-farming methods, in which
animals are kept in crowded condi-
tions and antibiotics and hormones
are often administered.

‘Best for the Animals'

Besides the inherent concerns
about humane treatment of ani-
mals and food quality in this
Scandinavian society, the legisla-
tlon reflects the extraordinary
political clout in Sweden of an 81-
year-old writer, Astrid Lindgren.
One of the world’s most widely
read authors of children’s books,
perhaps best-known as the creator
of the character “Pippi Longstock-
ing,” Mrs. Lindgren demonstrated
the power of the pen in Swedish af-
fairs by writing a series of satirical
allegdries in leading newspapers,
underscoring the plight of farm
animals and fueling the animal-
welfare campaign.

Swedish cattle have been given
grazing rights under the new law.
Pigs can no longer be tethered and
must be granted separate bedding
and feeding, places. Both cows and
pigs, the law states, must have
“access to straw and litter.”
Chickens must be let out of their
cramped cages. No drugs or hor-
mones can be used on farm ani-

mals, except to treat disease.

Most of the requirements will be
pEased in over the next few years,
b t implementation of the provi-_
sion making all chickens free rang-
ers will be stretched over several
years to lift some of the economic
burden from farmers and to give

© THE NEW YORK TIMES,
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1988

 

them time to build more spacious ac-
commodations.

Even when they are being killed,
Swedish farm animals apparently have
rights. “All slaughtering must be as hu-
mane as possible,” the act declares. ,

“Sweden is now the leader in this
field,” said Madelaine Emmervall,
first secretary in the Ministry of Agri-
culture. “lt’s the best lawinternation-
ally — the best for the animals.”

The program in Sweden represents
the forefront of a movement that is
being felt in other parts of Western Eu—
rope as ~well. The European Com-
munity has banned imports of meat
from animals raised with synthetic
hormones, effective Jan. I. The Com~
munity is also considering action to bar
the sale of a genetically engineered
hormone, bovine somatotropin, that in-
creases the outputof milk in dairy cat-
tle and hastens growth.

Successful Writing Campaign

For more than a decade, Sweden had
a vocal animal-welfare lobby, yet it
tended to focus mainly on curbing the
use of animals in scientific experi-
ments. But in recent years, Mrs. Lind-
gren has been responsible for making
the treatment of farm animals a lively
political issue here. Despite scattered
protests that .food prices would be
forced higher, the animal rights legis-
lation sailed through Parliament
earlier this year all but unopposed. -

it began with a story Mrs. Lindgren
wrote in September 1985 for Dagens
Nyheter, Sweden’s largest morning
paper, and culminated last summer
with a visit by Prime Minister lngvar
Carlsson to her Stockholm home to ex-
plain the new law and to assure Mrs.
Lindgren that the Social Democratic
Government was addressing her con-
cerns.

In between, she wrote several stories
for Expressen, the largest-circulation
evening paper, mostly as grown-up
versions of children’s tales. .For exam-
ple, one was written from the viewpoint
of God, who had f‘made man to take
care of animals.” in the story, God
visits earth after a long absence and is
deeply disappointed by what He sees.
Mrs. Lindgren‘s stories used childlike
observation to deliver a satirical sting.

She was undaunted by complaihts
from farmers’ groups and food compa-
nies. “A lot of people didn’t like my ar-
ticles," she said, “but 1 went on an
on.”

Mrs. Lindgren was raised on a farm
and she says her commitment to the

.-cause of barnyard animals stems from

her childhood recollections. “My father
loved his animals," she said. “And we
were the animals’ friends.”

When discussing the issue, Mrs.
Lindgren’s comments are laced with

thesame wry edge as her stories. For
example, she is no supporter of one
modern farming practice not men-
tioned in the new law:'artificial insemi-
nation. "I’ve always been a great fan of
cows,” she said. “An when l was
young, a cow was assured of at least
one happy day a year. The day she got
to visit the bull.”

Previous Target Was Taxes

Mrs. Lindgren’s track record on pub-
lic issues is impressive. The previous
time she took up her pen for a cause
was shortly before the Swedish general
election in 1976. At the time, Sweden’s
personal taxes had the effect of confis-
cating the income of the nation’s most
Successful entrepreneurs, like Mrs.
Lindgren. The tax rate on her income
for one year was set at 102 percent.

She wrote a couple of satirical tales
about a person reduced to begging be-
cause of the taxes imposed by a well-in-
tentioned government that went too
far. it was a view that struck a familiar
chord with many Swedish voters. in the
1976 election the Social Democratic
Party, which has ruled Sweden for 50 of
the last 56 years, was voted out of of-
fice. Swedish political analysts say her
writing clearly hurt the Social Demo-
crats that year.

“Astrid Lindgren is a person the So-
cial Democratic Party remembered
very well,” said Laila Edholm, an Agri-
culture Ministry official. “That’s why
this issue was taken so seriously politi-
cally.”

Animal-rights advocates here hope
the rest of the world will follow
Sweden’s example, either through
legislative campaigns or by force of
public opinion. “This is a major step
forward for us,". said Birgitta Carlsson,
an animal welfare lobbyist.

indeed, a few European entrepre-
neurs are already betting that con-
sumer sensitivity to animal rearing
methods will grow. Food quality, they
say, is the key issue for most people,
who are worried about meat and poul-
try produced through intensive farm-
ing techniques.

Somepeople will not eat veal be-
cause of the conditions in which it is
produced —— often a cramped and dark
confinement that increase stress on the
calves. Similarly, the practice of con-
fining hens to battery cages has given
rise to the market for eggs laid by free-
tange hens. Pascal Phelan, president
of Master Pork Packers ln lreland, is
convinced that pigs are next, and he is
building special sheds to produce large
numbers of “free-range pigs."

“People have become sensitive to pig
tethering first in Sweden," Mr. Phelan
said. “But it’s going to come every-
where, believe me."

 




The Ambassador of Sweden
and Countess Wachtmeister
and the Directors of the Animal Welfare Institute
request the pleasure of your company
at the presentation of the Albert Schweitzer Medal

to Astrid Lind gren
on Thursday, the sixteenth of March
at six thirty o’clock
at the Swedish Embassy residence
3900 Nebraska Avenue, N .W.
Washington, DC. 20016

R.S.V.P. (202) 337-23 32

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

Dear Member,

Just a note to ask you to be
sure to let me know if you plan
to come. As you can see from
the enclosed invitation, the
Ambassador of Sweden and
Countess Wachtmeister have most
generously invited us all to
the Swedish Embassy for the
Schweitzer Medal ceremony and
reception. As space is limit—
ed, there will be a list at

the door of people who have
accepted. Only those who have
let us know in advance that
they are coming can be admitted.

Sincerely,

(22%.; 5%.”

Christine Stevens

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

For Immediate Release
November 30, 1987

Jane Goodall, one of the world's leading primatologists
and a legendary figure to the public, will be presented with
the Albert Schweitzer Medal by Senator John Melcher (D, MT)
on Wednesday evening, December 2.

The award has been made by the Washington-based Animal
Welfare Institute for outstanding achievements in the
protection of animals, since 1954. The ceremony will take
place at 5:30 p.m. in Room 216 in the Senate Hart Office
Building and will be followed by an informal reception.

Dr. Goodall is being honored for her leadership in the
understanding of the species most closely related to our own,
the chimpanzee, and for her effective advocacy of humane
treatment of primates as individuals.

Senator Melcher is the only veterinarian in the U.S.
Senate. Long an advocate of humane treatment of animals, he
was the principal proponent of the amendment to the Animal
Welfare Act requiring space adequate to promote the
psychological well-being of laboratory primates.

Author of the best selling book, "In the Shadow of Man",
and producer of Animal Behayior in the celebrated National
Geographic television series, Dr. Goodall has earned
worldwide plaudits for her most recent book, the monumental
"The Chimpanzees of Gombe".

Her 17 May 1987 New York Times Magazine article, "A Plea
for the Chimps" calls for humane treatment of laboratory
chimpanzees.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself by Dr.
Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had gone to
accept the Nobel Peace Prize. Previous medalists include
Rachel Carson, Hubert Humphrey, Warren Magnuson, Russell
Train and Robert Dole.

For further information contact John Gleiber or Cathy Liss
Animal Welfare Institute
(202) 337-2332

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE 9.0. Box 3050 Washington, no. 20007

November 20, 1987

Dear Members and Friends,

On December second, world famous primatolOgist and
humanitarian, Jane Goodall, will receive the Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute from the
hand of Senator John Melcher of Montana. Senator Melcher is
the author of the provision for psychological well-being of
primates in the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Amendments to the Animal welfare Act.

You are cordially invited to attend this important ceremony
to be held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the
Animal Welfare Institute. The medal will be presented
following a report on AWI's activities for the year. A
reception will follow in the beautiful and spacious hearing
room.

Time: 5:00 to 7:00 p.m., December 2, 1987

Place: Room 216 Hart Senate Office Building
Washington, DC
(Use the Visitor's Entrance on Second
street between Constitution Avenue
and C Street, N.E.)

You are welcome to bring a friend or relative with you to
meet Dr. Goodall and Senator Melcher. If you could drop me a
note or post card or, if more convenient, call us at 202-337-
2332 to say you'll be coming, we'll have a name badge ready
for you and your friend at the door.

I look forward very much to seeing you on December second.
Best wishes,
Sincerely,

0,qu (it...

Christine Stevens
President

 




NEWS RELEASE

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

For Immediate Release

For further information:
Diane Haiverson, Animal Welfare Institute
(202) 337—2332
Lars Romert, Press Counselor: Swedish Embassy
(202) 944-5600

Author Astrid Lindgren to Receive Schweitzer Medal

Washington D.C. -- Sweden‘s leading author of children's books, Astrid Lindgren,
whose works have been translated into over 50 languages, will receive the Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute on March 16 at 6:30 PM. at
the Swedish Embassy Residence, 3900 Nebraska Avenue, NW.
Washington, D.C. The press is invited to attend the ceremony.

The award honors her major legislative victory for the prevention of cruelty to
farm animals.

Congressman Charles E. Bennett (D-FL), Chief Sponsor of the Veal Calf
Protection Act, will make the presentation to Mrs. Lindgren who is flying from
Stockholm to accept it. Following the ceremony, Mrs. Lindgren will be available to
talk to the press. The Embassy has arranged for entertainment by children dressed
as Pippi Longstocking and other famous characters created by the author.

Astrid Lindgren's popularity and the high regard in which she is held in her
own country have been instrumental in bringing about this legislation. The new law
bans cramped crates and phases out battery cages for hens over a 10 year period, to
allow for economic adjustment by the industry. Sweden's Prime Minister, lngvar
Carlsson, has dubbed it "Lex Astrid", Astrid's law, because of her leadership in its
enactment.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is awarded by the Animal Welfare Institute
for outstanding achievements for the humane treatment of animals. Previous
medalists include Jane Goodall, Senator Robert Dole and the late Rachel Carson
and Hubert Humphrey. A gold replica of the Medal was presented to Dr. Schweitzer
when he received the Nobel Peace Prize.

###

 




Bibliography 1944—1985
Astrid Lindgren

English title (title in brac-
kets=not published in
English)

Swedish title

 

(The Conﬁdences ofBritt-
Mari)

(Kerstin and I)

Pippi Longstocking

Pippi Goes Aboard

Bill Bergson Master Detec—
tive

The Six Bullerby Children
Pippi in the South Seas

(More about the Bullerby
Children)

(Nils Karlsson-Pyssling or
Simon Small)

(Kajsa Kavat or Brenda
Brave)

Kati in America

Bill Bergson Lives Danger-
ously

(Having fun in Bullerby) '
Kati in Italy

Bill Bergson and the White
Rose

Mio, my Son

Kati in Paris

Eric and Karlsson-on-the-
Roof

Rasmus and the Vagabond
(Rasmus, Pontus and
Toker)

The Children on Trouble-
maker Street

(Summer Meadow) in Mio,
my Son

Madicken or Mardie’s Ad-
ventures or Mischievous
Meg

Lotta of Troublemaker
Street

Britt-Mari lattar sitt hjarta

Kerstin och jag

Pippi Langstrump

Pippi Langstrump gar om-
bord

Masterdetektiven Blom-
kvist

Alla vi barn i Bullerbyn
Pippi Langstrump i Séder-
havet

Mera om oss barn i Bul-
lerbyn

Nils Karlsson-Pyssling

Kajsa Kavat

Kati i Amerilta
Masterdetektiven Blom—
kvist lever farligt

Bara roligt i Bullerbyn
Kati pa Kaptensgatan or
Kati i Italien I
Kalle Blomkvist och Ras-
mus

Mio min Mio

Kati i Paris

Lillebror och Karlsson pa
taket

Rasmus pa lulTen
Rasmus, Pontus och Toker

Barnen pa Brikmakarga-

tan
Sunnanang

Madicken

Lotta pa Brékmakargatan

1962

1 963
l 964
1966

1 968

1970

1973

1975

1976

1979

1981

1 984

1 985

Karlsson Flies Again

Emil in the Soup Tureen
Seacrow Island

Emil’s Pranks or Emil Gets
Into Mischiefs

The World’s Best Karlsson

Emil and His Clever Pig/
and Piggy Beast

The Brothers Lionheart
(Samuel August from
Sevedstorp and Hanna in
Hult)

Mardie to the Rescue

(Pippi’s Christmas)
Ronia the Robber’s
Daughter

(Little Ida’s Mischiefs)

Emil’s Sticky Problem

Karlsson pa taket ﬂyger
igen

Emil i Lonneberga

Vi pi Saltltrakan

Nya hyss av Emil i Lénne-
berga

Karlsson pa taket smyger
igen

An lever Emil i Lonne-
berga

Broderna Lejonhj arta
Samuel August fran
Sevedstorp och Hanna i
Hult

Madicken ochJunibackens
Pims .

Pippi Lingstrump harj ul-
gransplundring

Ronja Révardotter

Nar lilla Ida skulle gora
hyss
Emils hyss nr 325

In addition, there is a large number of picture books, plays and
songbooks, of which some are based on these books.

Feature ﬁlm: based on texts by Astrid Lindgren

1947

1948
1961

1968
1971
1973
1974
1977
1985

l 986

Master Detective Blom-
kvist (Bergson)

Pippi Longstocking

All We Children in Roar
Village (Bullerby)

We on Salt Crow

Emil ofLéinneberga
Pippi Longstocking
Karlsson-on-the-Roof
The Brothers Lionheart
Ronia the Robber’s
Daughter

The Bullerby Children

Misterdetektiven Blom-
kvist

Pippi Langstrump

Alla vi barn i Bullerbyn

Vi p5 Saltkrikan
Emil i Lonneberga
Pippi Lingstrump
Karlsson p5 taket
Broderna Lejonhjirta
Ronja Rovardotter

Alla vi barn i Bullerbyn

 




