U L A W S
(The University of London Animal Welfare Society .)

TENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

151: October, 1935, to 315’: July, 1936.

ﬁﬁ‘

%
@
aegis.) #3

W e

The University Union,
42' Torrington Square, London, W.C.1.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE PAGE
OFFICERS 0F ULZXVVS.W I CONFERENCES AND EXCURSIONS 28

_ T ..
AIMS 0F [IA-AWE) 4 INFORMATION BUREAU 3r
FINANCE 5 , -

- PUBLICATIONS 33

MEETINGS AND EXHIBITIONS... o A W A

. : NIMAL A i '
COLLEGE BRANCHES IO ELF RE BROAD 34
PANEL or? SPEAKERS 14 X’ARIA 38
CAMPAIGN AGAiNsr THE GIN ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 43

TRAP 19

 

FOREWORD.

This Report shows that the work of ULAWS has continued to
expand at a very rapid rate. One token is that the correspondence
outgoing from the ofﬁce has increased by 5I% as compared with
last year, while outgoing telephone calls have increased by no less
than 156% . A glance at the description of the Society’s activities
will explain these ﬁgures. Readers may ﬁnd it hard to believe that
the paid staff comprises one part—time secretary, one full-time
secretary and two assistants. »

It is gratifying to note that subscriptions also have shown a
generous increase. We are a little concerned at the fact that our
reserves (and. we have no hidden reserves) are sufﬁcient for only a
few months ’ work. We have never enjoyed a legacy. Nevertheless
our old friends have been generously faithful to us and new friends
are constantly being acquired, so that we have every hope of
continued progress in the future.

The formation of an important new branch at University
College and the vigorous revival of the branch at Birkbeck College
are among the encouraging events reported herein. '

There are such numerous demands for lectures given by
members of our panel of speakers that we are quite unable to meet
them all at present, but the panel is growing and our collection of
slides and ﬁlms is expanding. Our lecturers haVe been most,
encouragingly received. .

Our study of problems connected with the gin trap continues
to bulk large in our programme and a Select Committee has been
appointed by the House of Lords with terms of reference relevant
to this subject and drafted by ULAWS. '

The Council is grateful for the enthusiastic support which has
made this rapid expansion possible and conﬁdently relies for the
future on all friends of ULAWS. '

FREDERICK T. G. HOBDAY,
President .

 




 

OFFICERS 0F U L A W S

 

 

 

 

 

PRESIDENT :

PROF. SIR FREDERICK T. G. HOBDAY, C.M.G., F.R.C.V.S.. F.R.S.E.,
Dr. Med. Vet. (h.c.) Zurich.

VICE -PRESIDENTS :

SIR WILLIAM H. BEVERIDGE, K.C.B., D.Sc., M.A., B.C.L., ILLD.,
PROF. J. H. BURN, M.At, M.D.
PROF. R. W. CHAMBERS, M.A., D.Litt.
MISS D. CHAPMAN, M.A.
SIR EDWIN DELLER, LL.D.
SIR WILLIAM GRAHAM-HARRISON, K".C.
SIR ERNEST GRAHAM—LITTLE, M.D., F.R.C.P., MP.
W. R. HALLIDAY, M.A., LL.D., B.Litt.
~PROF. DAME HELEN GWYNNE-VAUGHAN, G.B.E., D.Sc., LL.D., P.L.S.
THE REV. RICHARD HANSON, B.D., ‘M.A.
PROF. B. W. HOLMAN, O.B.E., A.R.S.M.
JULIAN S. HUXLEY, M.A. '
PROF. H. G. JACKSON, D.SC.
PROF. DAVID KATz, Ph.D.
C. \N. KIMMINS, D.Sc., M.A., F.R.C.P., M.R.C.S.
PROF. D. L. MACKINNON, D.SC.
THE RT. HON. LORD MACMILLAN, LL.D._, M.A., F.R.S.E., K.C.
THE VERY REV. DEAN MATTHEWS, M.A.,VD.D., FHKC.
ALLEN MAWER, M.A., Litt.D.,' F.B.A’. ‘ i
PROF. A. O. RANKINE, O.B.E., D.Sc., F.R.S. .
PROF. G. R. TURQUET, M.A., D.Litt. ‘
PROP. E. J. SALISBURY, D.Sc., F.L.S._. F.R.S. '
GEORGE SENTER, D.Sc., Ph.D.
THE REV. PROF. E. S. WATERHOUSE, M.A., D.D. '
R. M. WILSON, B.Sc., Agric.(Edin.).
PROF. W. WILSON, D.Sc., Ph.D., F.R.S.
PROF. G. H. WOOLDRIDGE, F.R.C.V.S., M.R.I.A.
PROF. J. G. WRIGHT, F.R.C.V.S.

 

2

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

COUNCIL :

THE HONORARY OFFICERS, EX-OFFICIO.
*MISS H. E. BARGMANN, Ph.D., B.SC.
SIR FIENNES C. A. BARRETT—LENNARD, Kt.
MISS B. CASHM‘AN, B.A. '
RABBI SAMUEL DAICHES, M .A., PhD.
MISS E. L. B. FORSTER.

*MISS A. W. GREENER, M.R.C.V.S.

PAUL HAAS, B.Sc., Ph.D.

*J. R. HARMAN, B.SC.

F. E. HODGSON.

MISS R. LARMER.

C. LE MAISTRE, C.B.E., F.C.G.I.

J. MCMATH, B.Sc., F.G.S.

MISS M. D. SALTMARSH, Ph.D., B.A.

TTWO REPRESENTATIVES FROM EACH COLLEGE BRANCH.

CORRESPONDING MEMBERS OF COUNCIL :
Algeria and Tunisia: MISS NINA HOSALI, M.Sc., Hon. Secretary, Society
for the Protection. of Animals in North Africa
Baltic States: A. T SCHERTKOFF.

Canada: T. W. M. CAMERON, M.R.C.V.S., M.D., MaCGill University,
Montreal. ‘

China: DR. MAXWELL, Medical Faculty, Peiping University.

France: MAITRE LOUIS LESPINE, Avocat a la Cour d’Appel de Paris.
M. CLAVEL, Professeur d’Anglais, Université d’Aix -Marseille.

Greece: W. MILLER, M.A.(Oxon.), Hon. LL.D. (Athens), F.R.H .8.
India: MOOLRAJ MEHROTRA, M.Sc., University Of.Allahabad.

Italy: COMMENDATORE LEONARD HAWKSLEY.

Palestine: PROF. BODENHEIMER, University of Jerusalem.

Syria: PROF. R. H. SOLTAU, The American University, Beirut.
Travelling: A. S. MILLARD, M..,B B.Sc., D.Ph., formerly M.O.H., Cyprus.

* Members of the Finance and General Purposes Committee.

1' of Whom, Miss Hopper, L.S.M., Miss Scopes, Bedford College, Mr.
Harrow, R.V.C., and Mr. Heydon, King’s College, serve on the F. and G.P.
Committee.

BRANCHES :

Branches are recognised in the following Colleges of the University Of
London :—-

BEDFORD COLLEGE ROYAL HOLLOWAY COLLEGE
BIRKBECK COLLEGE ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE
KING’S COLLEGE SOUTH—EASTERN AGRICULTURAL
LONDON SCHOOL OF MEDICINE COLLEGE, WYE, KENT

FOR WOMEN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE
RICHMOND COLLEGE WESTFIELD COLLEGE "

Cadet Branch: POLTIMORE COLLEGE, EXETER.

.3

 

 




 

HONORARY OFFICERS :

. Hon. Treasurer:
*BRiGADtER-GENERAL MAGNUS MOWAT, C.B.E., F.R.S.E., F.K.C.;
M .l .Mech.E .
Hon. Assistant Treasurer:
*A. E. KNOWLER, M.Sc., F.1nst.P.
Hon. Secretary and Chairman of Committees:
*CAPTAIN C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc., F.Z.S.
Hon. Artist:
*KENNETH BIRD, B.Sc., F.K.C., F.Z.S. (“Fougasse”).
‘Hon. Secretary for Wild Life:
*A. H. B. KJRKMAN, F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P., F.Z.S.
Hon. Secretary for Animals Abroad:
*F. JEAN VINTER, M.D., B.S.
Hon. Cinematographer:
1*. W’. SOUTHERN.

Secretaries :

General Secretary:
MARJORIE A. CHALLEN, B.A.
Education Secretary:
CDNSTANCE E. HURREN, Ph.D., B.A., Dip. in Ed.
Hon. Auditors: '
CHAS. V‘V. ROOKE, LANE & Co., 2, Norfolk Street, W .C.2.
Bankers:
BARCLAY’S BANK, LTD., 161, Euston Road, N.VV.I.

* Members of the Finance and General Purposes Committee.

AIMS OF ULAWS .

I. To lessen, by methods appropriate to its special character
as a university organization, the pain and fear inﬂicted on
animals by man. .

2. To enlist the inﬂuence Of university men and women on
behalf of animals.

3. To promote, by educational and other methods, interest
in the welfare of animals in Great Britain and abroad.

4. To Obtain and disseminate accurate knowledge of
problems relating to animal welfare.

5. To extend the movement to continental and other uni-
versities.

 

 

 




 

 

 

I. FINANCE .

On pages 44, 45 and 46 will be found the audited income
and expenditure account and balance sheet. In order to
synchronize the closing of the accounts with the natural end
of the ULAWS year, they were closed this year on July 31st,
so that the period under review comprises thirteen months.

The following comparison of the rise in receipts ' and
expenditure during the ten years of our existence will be of
interest :—

TOmZ Tomi
Receipts Expenditure
f, g
1926- 7 (20 months) 4-7 . . 55
1927- 8 . . . . 61 . . 38
I928— 9 (II months) 44 . . 36
1929—30 . . . . 67 . . 64
1930-31 (II months) 228 . . 165
193I-32 . . . . 120 . . 220
19-32-33 . . . . 185 . . 238
. 1933-34 .-.. I456 . . 622
1934-35 . . . . I5II . . I487
1935-36 (I3 month ) 2I5I . . I907

These ﬁgures illustrate the history of ULAWS. For the '
ﬁrSt seven years of its life the Society was struggling against
a very difﬁcult ﬁnancial position. Until 1933 all activities
were undertaken by honorary ofﬁcers. In that year an ofﬁce
was opened and, thanks mainly to an appeal broadcast by
Fougasse and to subsequent postal appeals , receipts increased .
The above ﬁgures show how rapid has been the growth in the
past three years. We are especially gratiﬁed by the increased
proportion of income which has been received from renewals
of previous subscriptions and donations, and. we wish here
to record our warm thanks to all those friends who are gen-
erously continuing their support. We also wish to record
our sincere thanks to an anonymous donor at Oxford, who
sent us a very welcome gift of £100 in June last; '

During ten years, however, we have only been able to
put aside £500 as reserve, together with a ﬁghting fund of
£300 for forthcoming expenses connected with the Select
Committee of the House of Lords.

5

 

 




 

 

 

GENERAL secrrox OF ACCOUNTS.

In this section there has been a considerable increase of
expenditure. Receipts too have risen appreciably, though
the raising of money has not kept pace with our expansion,
and on the year’s work in this section we are faced with a
deficit.

‘ ANTI-STEEL-TRAP SECTION OF ACCOUNTS.

We are able to report a balance on our ﬁghting fund for
the abolition of the steel trap. It is in great part due to the
uneeasing efforts of Mr. V’Venman-Smith that we have been
able to place on deposit an amount of £300 to meet the heavy
expenditure which has been anticipated in connection with
the production of evidence and witnesses before the Select
Committee of the House of Lords (see page 21). We wish
here to assure Mr. Wenman-Smith of our very deep gratitude
for his continued help and unswerving devotion to the cause.
Included in the £300 placed on deposit is an amount of £100,
the result of a special collection in connection with the tenth
birthday of ULAWS (see page 39) . “

II. OPE) AND JOINT MEETINGS AND EXHIBITIONS .
MEETINGS.

Grey Owl’s film lecture. ULAWS was exceptionally
fortunate. in securing the consent of Grey Owl to address
senior and student members and guests during his lecturing
tour in England last winter. The meeting was held on
January 20 in the Great Hall of University College. The
audience was about I,200 strong, and included about 500
students, who in their eagerness to hear the speaker throngea
into the standing room of the gallery. Professor R. W.
Chambers, Quain Professor of English Language and Litera-
ture, a Vice-President of ULAWS and one of its earliest
members, took the Chair. We wish to place on record an
expression of gratitude to Dr. Allen Mawer, the Provost and
one of our Vice-Presidents , for the wonderful welcome which
was given to us by the College authorities on this occasion .

Grey Owl gave an informative and dramatic address,
accompanied by his remarkable films showing the life of the
Indians and the beavers in his district of Canada. All
present were deeply impressed by his sincerity and his
abhorrence of trapping, which years ago he foreswore after
realizing its extreme cruelty.

This very successful meeting was the starting point for
the formation of a branch of ULAWS in University College.
(see page to).

6)




One of the cherished possessions of ULAWS is the
following letter which was received by the General Secretary
shortly after Grey Owl delivered the lecture, and. has been
printed for use in the campaign against the gin trap :-—-

‘ ‘Dear Madam ,

Thanks a lot for your letter.

As to thanking me for the lecture, I can only say that it gave-
me the greatest pleasure to avail myself of the privilege of address-
ing this student audience.

I hope that I may have been instrumental in helping some of
them, in'some small way, to grasp the signiﬁcance of the word
“tolerance’ ’ when applied to those creatures, who, on account
of their being less gifted than ourselves, stand so greatly in need.
of the kindness for which they cannot ask.

I sincerely hope, with you, that the absolute abolition of the-
gin-trap will not be too long delayed by the apathetic complacency
of those who could help , if they would, but whose point of View is
too much inﬂuenced by their ‘ ‘sporting’ ’ instinct, or who, having
never suffered themselves, give no thought to the sufferings of
others, and who are interested in nothing that does not contribute
directly to the beneﬁt of their own kind exclusively.

' ' Sincerely, ‘
Grey Owl.”

Meeting with the Conference of Educational Associations
at University College. A lecture was given by Miss N. G.
Hussey, of the Gaumont—British Instructional Films
Bureau, on January I. The Chair was taken byour PreSi-
" dent, Sir Frederick Hobday. Miss Hussey explained the
difﬁculties attending the making of animal ﬁlms, difﬁculties
provided by nature—especially in England, where the
weather is so variable—and» by the animals themselves. She
dealt 'with the ﬁlming of animals in the Zoo and the necessity
for the ﬁlm editor to consider the reaction of the audience and
common prejudices. To illustrate her remarks the fOllowing
ﬁlms were shown: “The Buzzard” (theatrical title, “Baby
on the Rocks”), “Washing Time at the Zoo,” “Looper-
Caterpillars.’ ’ (Insect Life Series, by Charles Head.)

joint Meeting with the School Nature Study Union at the
Institute of Education. Mr. E. Heron Allen lectured on the
purposiveness shown in foraminifera on March 3, the title of
his talk being ‘ ‘The Dawn of Intelligence.” We welcomed
in the Chair Mr. R. M. Freeman (“Samuel Pepys” of the
Radio Times) who has given valuable publicity to our
campaign against the steel trap in his articles. We were very
glad of this opportunity of co-operating again with our old
friends the School Nature Study Union.

Discussion on poisons for rodents. Thanks to the generous.
support of Professor J. H. Burn, M.D. , Dean of the College
of the Pharmaceutical Society, ULAWS was able to hold

7

 

 




a meeting at this College ' on February 27. Professor
Burn himself took the Chair and kindly (to—operated in "all
possible ways. ’

The meeting was organized to explore the teasibility of
selecting and devising poisons with a View to humane
considerations, and is a ﬁrst step towards grappling with the
problem of poisons for destructive animals. Some of the
poisons at present in use are excessively cruel. The meeting
was addressed by Professor J. G. Wright, F..R.C.V.S.,
Lecturer in Surgery and Materia Medica, Royal Veterinary
College, on The Pathological Effects of Poisons Used for
Rodents; J. D. Hamer, F .I.C., Consultant Chemist to the
Orient Line on Chemical Rat-Control in Ships and Docks,
and T. Howard (of Wm. Howard and Sons) on “Poisoned
Baits.” In the subsequent discussion the following took
part: Dr. Scarborough (London School of Medicine); C. L.
Claremont (Rodent and Insect Pest Destruction Co.) ; Dr.
A. H. B. Kirkman (ULAVV S Hon. Secretary for Wild Life);
Dr. J. J. Paterson (Medical Ofﬁcer of Health, Maidenhead);
Capt. C. W. Hume (ULAVVS Hon. Secretary); G. McLaren
{President of the Association of Manufacturers of Preparations
for Pest Destruction).

Considerable difﬁculties with regard to bait poisons were
brought out. While poisons of the narcotic type are ineffec-
tive on account of the large quantities which would have to
be eaten, it was suggested that the combination. ofa poisOn ‘
and a narcotic might be feasible. Opinions differed somewhat
as to the humaneness or otherwise of red squill, which is a
speciﬁc poison for rats, but there was some authoritative
opinion for the view that while, like other bait poisons, it
takes a long time to kill, it does not inﬂict acute suffering.

The papers contributed by Professor W’right and Mr.
Hamer have been published as ULAVV S monographs 7a and
7b respectively.

This meeting was open to students and graduates in
chemical, medical and other sciences, Sanitary Ofﬁcers, and
members of the University, and there was a large attendance.
Acceptances were received from

Representatives from the British Medical Journal and the Farmer
and Stockbreeder; the Association of Applied Biologists, repre-
sented by G. Fox \Vilson; The National Veterinary Medical
Association, represented by F. Knight; British Association of
Chemists, represented by C. B. VVOOdley; Society of Public
Analysts, represented by G. Roche Lynch; Imperial Chemical
Industries, represented by Dr. Coyne, and Mr. Blewett, Head of
the Pest Control section; R. R. Bennett, British Drug Houses
Ltd.; Miss Bond, London School of Medicine; F. Bullock,

Secretary Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons; Proﬁt. P. A.
Buxton, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine; F . G.

8

 




 

 

 

Caley, Medical Ofﬁcer of Health, Wandsworth ; G. 1R. Cameron,
University College Hospital Medical School; Dr. Chandler, St.
Bartholomew’s Hospital Medical School; C. L. Claremont,
Rodent and Insect Pest Destruction Co.; Dr. Cunnington, St.
Bartholomew’s Hospital Medical School; Major G. W. Donkin,
Medical Research Council; C. Elton, Oxford Museum; Dr.
Esdaile, King’s College of Household and Social Science; G. A.
Freak, Cooper Technical Bureau; George Graham, St. Bartholo-
mew’s Hospital Medical School; C. M. Hall, M.P.S . , Murphy and
Sons, Ltd.; R. Hamill, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Medical
School; Prof. Sir Frederick Hobday, Prin., Royal Veterinary
College, President ULAWS ; Prof. A. Huggett, St. Mary’s
Hospital Medical School; H. J. Inns, Inspector, Public Health
Dept., County Hall; Prof. Kennaway, Research Institute, Cancer
Hospital; G. McLaren, Haller Laboratories, Ltd.; Dr. F. C.
Minett, Research Institute in Animal Pathology, R.V.C.; R. G.
Monro, Messrs. George Monro, Ltd. ; Major General Sir John
Moore; C. W. Ottaway, Royal Veterinary College; W. H. Patter-
son, Queen Mary College; Mr. Rogers, London Fumigation Com-
pany; Sir E. John Russell, Director of Rothamsted Experimental
Station; Dr. Scarborough, London School of Medicine; Dr. J.
A. Scott, Medical Ofﬁcer of Health, Fulham; Mr. Seaton, Bush
Beach and Gent; Prof. Thorpe, Imperial College of Science;
the late W. H. Turner, Technical Adviser to Messrs. Geo. Monro;
Dr. Vevers, Superintendent, Zoological Society of London: Mr.
Wosner, London Fumigation Company, and two rat ofﬁcers of the
Borough of Southwark. , '

'We have to record our sincere thanks to Professor Burn
and to the speakers.

Professor Garslcmg’s illustrated leclilre on the songs of
birds. The large theatre at Birkbeck College was well ﬁlled
on March I7 for a lecture given by Professor Walter Garstang,
M.A., D.Sc., F.I.S., F.Z.S., Emeritus Professor of Zoology
in the University of Leeds. The Chair was taken by C. E. M.
Joad, M.A., lecturer in Philosophy, University of London,
Who gave an interesting introductory address. Professor
Garstang has made an intensive study of the songs of birds
and by means of his own vocal illustrations and of gramo-
phone records gave the audience much valuable information
on this very attractive subject. We were glad to welcome
members of the School Nature Study Union.

M eeling of supporters at Torquay, April 282%. By the
courtesy of Mr. Wenman-Smith, the Honorary Secretary was
enabled to address a small meeting of some of the numerous
supporters of the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill, who have
been organized by Mr. Wenman—Smith in Torquay. The
Honorary Secretary welcomed this opportunity of giving an
account of the Society’s stewardship and of making contact
with sympathisers including Major Cramer, whose work on
the Torquay Town Council has been invaluable.

9

 

 

 




 

 

 

EXHIBITIONS .

The Animals’ Fair, Central H all, Westminster, Nov. 30.
ULAWS once more took a stall for the distribution of
literature. The work of the Society, and particularly the
campaign against the gin trap, was explained to many
visitors. ULAVV S also supervised a stall for the Scottish
S.P.C.A.

Exhibition of W omen’s Progress, Simderlomd H ouse, W. ,
March 4-21. ULAWS displayed literature and posters on
a well-placed stand, which was guarded throughout by a
helper ready to explain the work of the Society. A list of
about 150 sympathisers was collected in this way. We were
pleased to be able to display copies of some of the leaﬂets and
posters circulated by SPANA. Our thanks are due to the
members and friends who gave their time to looking after the
stand.

E tori College Natural History Society’s C oriversazione,
March 28. At the request of the organizer of this Conver—
sazione, ULAWS supplied an exhibit illustrating methods of
dealing with rabbits and other rodents. Both the cruel
method of the gin trap and humane methods, including
fumigation , were represented. Copies of various publications
connected with our trapping campaign were distributed . We
are most grateful to the Eton College Natural History Society
for giving us this opportunity.

Ill . COLLEGE BRANCHES .

NEW BRANCHES.

University College. Though some of our foundation
supporters are members of the academic staff of University
College , it was only in the spring of this year that a branch of
ULAWS was formed there. Thanks to the whole-hearted
support given to us by Professor R. W. Chambers, Quain
Professor of English Language and Literature, who has
always been one of the best friends of ULAWS , a meeting was
held on March I6. Professor Chambers himself took
the Chair and the Honorary Secretary addressed the audience ,
which comprised members of the staff and students, on The
Raison d’Etre of ULAWS. The following resolution was
then proposed by Mr. Hawkes , President of the Men’ s Union,
seconded by Miss Jolly, President of the Women’s Union,
and carried unanimously: ‘ ‘that a Provisional Committee be
appointed to undertake the formation of a branch . of . the
University of London Animal Welfare Society inUniversity

IO

 

 

 




 

 

College and to apply for its oﬂicial recognition.’ ’ The
following Provisional Committee was appointed to represent,
ULAWS for the remainder of the session and to undertake the
recognitionof the branch by the authorities: Miss Ledingham
(Dept. of Zoology) , Miss Carey (Dept. of Zoology) , Mr. Young
(Dept. Of Zoology), Miss Loveband (Faculty of Arts), Mr.
Amsden (Dept. of Chemistry).

The meeting closed with a display of ﬁlms of Grey Owl’s
beavers by Mr. Southern, our Honorary Cinematographer.

We are very glad that the Zoology Department, in which
Miss Renton has given us much support, is showing so much
interest in our work and methods, and we wish here to say
how Veryvproud we are that a branch is now in existence in
University College. The co-operation which we received
from members of the academic and administrative staffs made
our task a very easy one and the formation of this branch will
remain in our memories as one of the most pleasant pieces of
work which ULAWS has undertaken.

Blrkbeck College. Although a branch has nominally
existed for some time at Birkbeck College, the birthplace of
ULAWS , its membership had dwindled greatly and activities
had practically ceased until Mr. E. Forsberg, B.Sc., a post
graduate student who has won high esteem as an ofﬁcer of the
Hockey Club , consented to act as Honorary Secretary for the
branch and at once put new life into it.

Professor H. G. Jackson, head of the Department of
Zoology, has consented to be President. One of the keenest
members of the branch is Mr. Gus O’Connor, President of the
Students’ Union of the College, and the branch has many
other good friends among the prominent ﬁgures in the College.

. MEETINGS IN BRANCHES.
Stuck/Group of King’s College Branch (see page 43).

The following meetings have been held during the past
session. We have been glad to welcome student visitors from
the Maria Grey and Furzedown Training Colleges to many of
the lectures. The majority of the lectures were illustrated by
lanternslides and sometimes ﬁlms also were shown. Very
special thanks are due to Mr. Southern, our Honorary Cine-
matographer, for his indefatigable services in this connection.

Winter term .

Bedford College.
Captain C. W. Hume. Aims and Work of ULAWS.
‘ Eric J. Hosking. Three Eyes Penetrate the Country-

- slide .

‘II

 

 




 

 

The Rev. G. Bramwell Evens. A Walk through an
English Wood.
King’s College.
Dr. Constance E. Hurren. ULAVVS: a University
Organization .
The Rev. E. S. VVaterhouse. The Psychology of an
Animal’ 5 Mind.
London School of Medicine for Women.
Captain C. W. Hume. What is ULAWS?
'. R. Harman. Fur-Bearers and their Fate.
Arthur R. Thompson. Wild Life in Essex.
Royal Holloway College.
Helene E. Bargmann. Whales and Whaling
Research. ‘
. R. Harman. Fur-Bearers and their Fate .‘
Royal Veterinary College.
A . H. Laurie. Whaling in the Antarctic.
Westﬁeld College.
Captain C. W. Hume. ULAVVS: its Aims and
Activities .
Wye. College.
J . R. Harman. The Work of ULAWS.
R. Spens . Hunt ing-Birds.

Spring term .
Bedford College.
. R. Harman. Fur—Bearers and their Fate.
Arthur R . Thompson. Wild Animals of the Country-
side.
Birkbeck College.
Professor W. Garstang. The Songs of Birds (see
, page 9)-
ng’s College.

Captain C. W. Hume. A Rational Reform: the Gin

- Traps (Prohibition) Bill.
London School of Medicine for Women.
E. L. Grant Watson. Man and Animals: the Ethics
of Animal Welfare.
Professor David ,Katz. The Mind of Animals.
Royal Holloway College.
Dr. Constance E. Hurren. ULAWS: a University
Organizat ion . ~ .
P. W. Southern. Exhibition of ﬁlms.
The Rev. A. Linzee Giles. Marvels of Birdland.
Royal Veterinary College.
J. R. Harman. Methods of trapping Fur—Bearers.
Captain A. T. Ritchie. Wild Life of Kenya.

IZ




 

University College (see page 10). ,
Grey Owl. Film Lecture (see page 6).
Captain C. W. Hume. The Raison d’Etre of
ULAWS.
P. W. Southern. Exhibition of ﬁlms.
Westﬁeld College.
J. R. Harman. Beauty and the Beast.
Wye College.
Captain C. W. Hume. The Rabbit Peril.

Summer term.
Birkbeck College.
P. W. Southern. Practical Animal Welfare, and an
exhibition of Canadian ﬁlms.
King’s College (in conjunction with the College
Zoological Society).
Dr. A. H. B. Kirkman. Vanishing Fauna of Africa.
Richmond College.
Dr. Constance E. Hurren. ULAWS and its Work.
P. W. Southern. Exhibition of ﬁlms.
Royal Veterinary College. '
S. L. Bensusan. Man and his Charges: half a century
of Change.
University College.
Professor David Katz. The Intelligence of Animals .
Westﬁeld College.
Frances M. Alger. The Rabbit Problem.
Wye College.
P. W. Southern. Practical Animal Welfare.

FAREWELL BUT NOT FOR EVER.

We are very pleased to offer our congratulations to the
following student ofﬁcers and members of branch committees
who graduated this summer: Frances M. Alger, Westﬁeld
College, B.A. (English); Winifred M. Austin, Bedford
College, B.A. (Geography); Jocelyne J. Baty, Bedford
College, B .A. Hons. Ila (English) ; Elizabeth Carey, Univer—
sity College, B.Sc. Hons. II (Zoology); F. G. Grifﬁths,
King’s College, A.K.C. (Theology); F. G. W. W. Heydon,
King’s College, A.K.C. (Theology); Marjorie E. Jolley,
Westﬁeld College, B.A. Hons. II (English); B. H. Preston,
King’s College, A.K.C. (Theology) ; D. H. C. Rudd, King’s
College, A.K.C. (Theology); Aileen A. Taylor, Royal
HollowayCollege, B.A. Hons. IIa (History); Kathleen M.
Welton, Westﬁeld College, B.A. Hons. IIa (History);
Elizabeth H. Woodger, Royal Veterinary College,
M.R.C.V.S.

We hope that in their new work they will ﬁnd it possible
to keep in touch with ULAWS.

I3

 

 




 

 

IV. PANEL OF SPEAKERS .

It has long been an ambition of ULAWS to build up a
panel of speakers, recruited from members of the University,
for the purpose of meeting the great demand, actual and
potential, for really well- informed lectures on animal
welfare in clubs, institutions and schools. A considerable
number of such lectures have been given du11ng the year,
and although the burden still falls on far too few the panel
is growing and we have every hope that it will contmue to
do so.

We would make a special appeal to members of cOllege
branches to serve the cause in this way after graduation We
hope also that students still in college will not hesitate to
come forward for the work. We record with particular
pleasure the very successful lectures given in Cornwall during
Vacation by Miss Alger, of the Westﬁeld College branch,
which gained useful publicity 1n the county press. '

The lectures are not entirely devoted to propaganda in
the ordinary sense of the word, and it is recognized that
audiences will not come to hear a catalogue of horrOrs. Our
lecturers promote a friendly and well- informed attitude
towards animals by conveying knowledge relating to them,
and the pill of direct propaganda is carefully gilded.

The Society’s very warm thanks are due to Dr Kirkman
for his continued and indefatigable work as a lecturer. A
special notice, illustrated by F ougasse, has been used for
making his availability known, and there has been a great
demand for his lectures.

The Society IS equally indebted to Mr. Austin, Mr. Rolfe
and Mr. Pitcher, of the Wye College branch, whose work is
reported under a special heading below. ,

SOME MEETINGS OF SPECIAL INTEREST.

~Um'versz'tz'es C ongress. This was held at the University
College of the South—West, Exeter, from April 15 'to-gZI.
The policy of the National Union of Students now precludes
the use of the machinery of that organization for propaganda
by bodies external to it, but the longstanding personal
association of the ofﬁcers of ULAWS with the N. U. S. never-
theless enables valuable contacts to be made during: %the
annual congress. On this occasion a meeting was. held in
Exeter during the congress and was attended by the majOrity
of-the' members. An exhibition of ﬁlms was given , including;
a ﬁlm made by the Zoology Department of University
College,I-Exeter, to illustrate humane fumigation" o'f'ra-bbits.

 

 




 

 

, ::7';,*5§‘lmfmal Welfare Week in Oxford . On April 30 a-meeting
was; arranged at Oxford, by a local committee for Animal
Welfare Week, which is promoted annually by the National
Council for Animals’ Welfare. The Society gratefully wel-
comed the opportunity given by the organizer, Miss Helen
Adair, to state the case for the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill.
The Chair was taken by Lord Elton and an address was given
by the/Honorary Secretary of ULAWS on The Problem of
Trapping. On the platform it was a pleasure to note the
presence of the Mayor of Oxford, Professor Gilbert Murray
tandeProfessor Walter Garstang. It was equally pleasurable
to ﬁnd in the audience a number of student members of the
National ,Union of Students, and it is hoped that interest may
have been aroused within the University of Oxford. A most
generous anonymous donation of £100 to the Society’s funds
was announced at the meeting.

M eetz'ngs arranged by the RS .P.C .A. On November 29
the Honorary Secretary and Education Secretary had the
honour of describing the work of ULAWS to the headquarters
staff of the R.S.P.C.A. at 105, Jermyn Street. It was a
matter of keen regret that serious illness prevented our old
friend, Captain MacCunn, now Chief Secretary of the
R.S‘.P'.C‘.A., from taking the Chair, for he helped to found
ULAWS ten years ago. His place was ably ﬁlled by Mr.
Polhill, Legal Secretary, and practically all the headquarters
staff were present. ULAWS welcomed the opportunity of
showing its sympathy with the policy, dear to the heart of
Captain MacCunn, of promoting unity and co-operation
between animal welfare societies.

Another valuable occasion for co—operating with the,
R.S.P.C.A. was furnished by an invitation extended by the
Birmingham branch of that Society to the Honorary Secretary
Of ULAWS, who was privileged to deliver an address on
The Problem of Trapping, at the annual meeting of the
Branch on June II. The Chair was taken by the Rev. Canon
Stuarthlofeld, and he was supported on the platform by the
then Chairman of the Birmingham branch, Alderman Dr.
A; V. Bernays. The meeting was attended by about I50
persons and was very well reported next day in the local press.

LECTURES TO ADULT AUDIENCES .

; Dr. Kirkman has lectured on the following subjects: The
Worlds nFur-Bearing Animals, Some Persecuted Wild
Animals, British Wild Animals or Birds and Agriculture-
to audiences at: -

Frittenden, Marden, Pluckley and Smarden
15

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Women’s Institutes, Maidstone and Tunbridge‘Wells,
Natural History Societies, and Staplehurst Congrega-
tional Chapel.

Dr. Vinter addressed the following on either the Gin.
Traps (Prohibition) Bill or Animal Welfare in North Africa.

(illustrated by ﬁlms) :

Hastings Branch, National Council of Women,
Mount Pleasant Sisterhood, Bexhill Auxiliary of
SPANA, Hastings Auxiliary of SPANA, Hastings.
Branch of the N.C.A.W., St. Clement’s Women’ s-
Fellowship, St. Leonard’s November Club.

B» Miss Frances Alger addressed the Brighton and Hove-
Branch of the N .C .A .W . on The Rabbit Problem in Agricul-

ture .

LECTURES TO CHILDREN .

Dr. Kirkman was invited by each of a number of schools
to speak on one of the following subjects: Some Persecuted.
Wild Animals, British Wild Animals, The Disappearing
Fauna of Africa, The World’s Fur-Bearing Animals, Whales»
and Animal Welfare. All the lectures were illustrated with
lantern slides. The schools were as follows: County School
for Boys, Beckenham and Penge; County School for Girls,
Chatham ; East Hill Central School, Dartford; Grammar
School, Eastbourne; County School for Boys, Erith ; County
School for Girls, Folkestone ; County School for Boys,
Gillingham ; Bedgebury Park Girls’ School, Goudhurst ;
County School for Boys, Isleworth; Skinners School, Tun—
bridge Wells.

Dr. Jean Vinter gave a lecture on Animal Welfare in
North Africa, illustrated by her own ﬁlms, to the Central;
School for Senior Girls, Hastings, and to the Thornbank
School for Girls, Bexhill.

Miss F. Alger addressed the County School, Liskeard,
Cornwall, on The Rabbit Problem in Agriculture, as a result
of which she dealt with correspondence on the subject which-
appeared in the local press.

Miss J . Scopes spoke to the Flora Gardens Junior Girls’
School on The Care of Pets.

Mr. J. McMath delighted an audience of boys at the
Mary Ward Settlement by his lantern lecture on Ranching in
Australia.

Captain Hume spoke to the boys of Strand School,
London, on the Gin Trap.

I6




 

LECTURES To CHILDREN BY MEMBERS OF THE WYE COLLEGE
BRANCH.

M 1’. Austin’s lecturing tour in Flintshz're. Our last
”Annual Report contained an account of the visit of Mr. Austin,
Assistant Lecturer of Wye Agricultural College to schools in
Flintshire, at the invitation of the Deeside Animal Welfare
"Society. We may mention here that Mr. Austin and Mr.
Witt, an undergraduate student from Wye Agricultural
College, will be paying a visit in September, 1936, to under—
take a similar tour. An account of this will appear in. our
next Report.

Lectures in Kent. Mr. Salter Davies, Director of Educa-
‘tion for Kent, has kindly allowed the schools under his
control to receive a circular each term during the past year
offering to the Head Teachers the following lectures: British
Birds, Water Birds, The Gamekeeper’s Gibbet, Insect Pests
in our Garden, British Reptiles and Amphibians. The
response from the Head Teachers has been very encouraging
and the hearty thanks of ULAWS are due to Mr. Salter
Davies and to the lecturers.

Mr. S. W. Rolfe, Assistant Lecturer at the College,
visited the following schools: Ashford North Central School,
Bexley Heath Boys’ Central School, Dartford West Central
School for Girls, Tonbridge Senior Boys’ School, West Bear
School, Stone-in-Oxney School. He also visited Swanley
Young Farmers’ Club twice.

Mr. R. S. Pitcher, a post-graduate student at the
College, spoke at the following schools: Ashford North
Central, Bekesbourne (Church), Bexley (Church), Eastling
Council (twice), East Peckham (Church), Elmstead and
Hastingleigh , Frittenden (Church), Halstead Council (twice),
Kennington Council (twice), Lyminge (Church), N ewchurch
Council, N ewington Council (twice), Petham (Church)
(twice), Ramsgate County School for Girls, Seal St. Lawrence
(Church), Sheldwich Council, Stone—in-Oxney (Church)
(twice), Sturry (Church) (twice), Tenterden (Church), Willes-
borough Council (twice), Wittersham Council (twice),
Yalding St. Margaret’s (Church), and Swanley Young
’Farmers’ Club (twice) and Cowden Young Farmers’ Club.

LANTERN SLIDES.

Our last Report mentioned that various sets of slides had
been collected to illustrate the lectures given by the panel of
speakers during the year. Every set has been enlarged and
completed, and two new sets , with duplicates for use in Kent,
have been built up. Additional slides have been made to
complete the collection which Dr. Kirkman uses to illustrate

I7

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his lectures. The expenditure on thiswork (including postal
and carrying boxes) is included in this year’s accounts (p. 44).
The new sets will be of great value in the campaign
against, the gin trap. The ﬁrst is designed to illustrate the
lecture A Rational Reform: The Gin Traps (Prohibition)
Bill. It illustrates the principles which ULAWS has
formulated for the conduct of its campaign, and shows 'both
humane and inhumane methods of dealing with wild animals.
, The second set accompanies the lecture Fur—bearers
and their Fate (or Beauty and the Beast) and shows a
number of fur-bearers such as musk rats, martens, raccoons,
opossums, koalas, in their wild state. These slides are
follOwed by others showing various traps and sets , and-ﬁnally
there are illustrations of fur and fur—fabric coats, showing
how well the fabric compares for beauty and style with the
pelt , apart from other considerations. , :

The following slides have recently been collected: I

Water Birds and British Birds ............... '64

(certain slides are used for both lectures).
British Reptiles and Amphibians ............ 24
The Gamekeeper’s Gibbet .................... 40

A Rational Reform or The Rabbit Problem 7
(2 sets of 45 slides each) ............... 90
Furs and Fur Trapping .................... 42
, Additions to Dr. Kirkman’s sets .......... . ..... '60
General reproductions of Fougasse’s cartoons I'o
Extras .............................. . ..... 5
335

Our cordial thanks are due to W. S. Berridge, M. G.
Best, S. G. E. Crowder, G. Hearn, E. J. Hosking, Madame
Marja, Frances Pitt, P. H. ‘Revell, A. R. Thompson, and
also Country Life, Lovat Dickson and Thompson, The Nature
Lover and the Ministry of Agriculture for permission to
reproduce their photographs. . ’

FILMS .

The ﬁrst ULA WS production: ‘ ‘Arm’s Dog.’ ’ In
conjunction with the Deeside Animal Welfare Society
ULAWS has produced a ﬁlm to illustrate in action the correct
treatment of the dog in the home.

The story centres around Ann, whose parents give her-a
puppy for her tenth birthday. She and her father visit the
kennels to buy the dog most suited to their small house. The
scenes which follow show Ann learning to look after Judy at
home; she is taughthow to feed , groom , exercise and train the

1.8




deg Special emphasis 1s laid on certain points such as diet
and the times of feeding, abundance of drinking water,
correct size of ball and bone for play, running- -Chain, method
of crossing busy streets, and ﬁnally comfort 1n sleeping. The
scenario was approved by our President and two veterinary
Vice Presidents. The ﬁlm was taken at standard size,
35—mm.; but I6—mm. copies will be made from the original.
- The warm thanks of both societies are due to Mr.
Southern, ULAWS Honorary Cinematographer who has
been entirely responsible for the production of the ﬁlm, and
to the following who form the cast:

5 -Ann .......... Ann Gilﬁllan. ’
, . g Mother .......... Elizabeth H. Woodger.
._ Father .......... W. L. Presswood.
, ,,Uncle .......... P. W. Southern.

We are also greatly indebted to Major Hamilton Kirk for

. allOWing us to use his boarding kennels for the ﬁrst scenes of

the ﬁlm, and to Mr. Walter Buckstone, of Kodak’s Medical

Department, for his sympathetic and practical assistance over
many technical difﬁculties.

Ula’wsians at the Zoo. Mr. Southern has taken a colour
ﬁlm Of a party of ULAWS students Visiting the London Zoo.
The sCenes show the Ulawsians petting the parrots, watching
the lions and seals being fed, nursing dingo puppies, and
ﬁnally refreshing themselves with cream buns.

Canadian natural history films. The Society is very
grateful to ofﬁcials of the Canadian Paciﬁc Railway who at
the request of Mr. Harper Cory, lent us the following ﬁlms
on peManent loan :——Around the Year in the Big WOOds,
Hunting without a Gun, Home of the Birds, Canoe Trails
through Mooseland, Beaver People.

‘ These ﬁlms, together with the three made by Dr. Vinter
in NOrth Africa, and those on the work of the Royal Veterinary
College, have provided excellent and varied programmes for
branch meetings during the year. .

'v.’ CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE GIN TRAP

THE BAsIs AND METHOD OF THE ULAWS CAMPAIGN.

The Objections and prejudices which hinder the abolition
of the gin trap fall under four heads: (1) Obviously frivolous
objections, such as the allegation that the Gin Traps (Prohibi-
. tion) Bill is ”an insidious attack on ﬁeld sports,” and
objections that can be met by concessions, such as the export
problem, these need not be discussed here. (ii) The game-

19

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

keeper’ 5 objection; this comes from a relatively small section
of the community, but is receiving careful study. (iii) The
alleged necessity for using the gin trap for rats. A conclusive
answer can be given to this objection, for expert rat-catchers
make little use of the gin trap and where traps are required
those of the breakback or the Brailsford type can be employed.
(iv) The rabbit problem. This has been by far the most
formidable obstacle in the path of reform and our attention
has hitherto been largely concentrated upon it.

Rabbits have greatly increased in numbers and fallen in
price. This has helped farmers to realize the truth of one of
our contentions—that rabbits as stock do not pay. This
element in our position is now a widely held opinion ,- and the
plea that rabbits are a valuable source of food commands far
less assent than it did three years ago. Farmers have con-
sequently become alive to the necessity of getting rid of
rabbits and it is peculiarly gratifying to our Society to ﬁnd
that the results of our investigations, carried on laboriously
during years when rabbits were still generally regarded as an
agricultural asset, now form the basis of almost all the
, serious advice published in the rural and general press on the

subject of rabbit-control. During the year our work has been
utilized in articles in many papers, including the Country-
rnan and F ox—H unting Illustrated, a leader on ‘ ‘The
Destructive Rabbit” in Country Life, April 25; “The
Rabbit Menace,” by Guy Dollman, in the Natural History
Magazine for July, and a very large number of other excellent
articles.

ULAWS has, in fact, come to be recogniied as an
authority on this subject which it has made its own. It is
believed that, as a result of this positive contribution to the
solution of an agricultural problem, more fundamental
progress has been made towards the ultimate goal than could
have been won by appealing negatively to farmers to abstain
from cruel methods.

Our opponents, and with them some important repre-
sentatives of the farmers, have somewhat recklessly com-
mitted themselves to the view that fewer rabbits have been
trapped since prices fell, and hence that the increase of rabbits
could be stemmed by a rise in prices. On this somewhat
unveriﬁed hypothesis they havefounded a plea for action by
the Government and have conducted a press campaign.
Statistics indicate, however, that the fall in prices has been
accompanied by a rapid increase in the number of rabbits
trapped in Britain.

20




 

SELECT COMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE or LORDS.

During the debate in the House of Lords on the Gin Traps
(Prohibition) Bill, described in our previous Annual Report,
it became evident that the questions of fact which were in
issue could not satisfactorily be settled in an atmosphere of
controversy, and our supporters in that debate sought to have
the bill referred to a Select Committee of the House so that
evidence might be taken and weighed impartially. Their
intention was defeated at that time but on December I7
Viscount Tredegar, the mover of the bill, arranged for a few
of the Peers who had supported it to meet and to consider our
proposals for securing a Select Committee independently of
the bill. Terms of reference were drafted by ULAWS with
the assistance of Sir William Graham-Harrison, K.C., for
whose continued help we are most grateful. Lord Merthyr
who is an active worker for the R.S.P.C.A. as well as for
ULAWS, kindly undertook to move for the appointment of
the Committee and after some delay due to difﬁculty in
completing the personnel of the Committee, whose labours are
likely to be exacting, he did so on May I4 of this year.
There was no opposition to the motion, which was adopted
unanimously and received the support of the Chairman of a
society Which strongly opposed us in 1935. Lord Halifax had
on behalf of the Government cordially welcomed the motion
as being in the public interest. Its terms were as follows:
“That a Select Committee be appointed to consider whether
any measures, and if so What, ought to be taken for better
protection of agriculture and the land against the ravages of
rabbits, and to what extent , if any, the prohibition of the use
of gin traps would affect the attainment of the object
aforesaid.’ ’ .

Lord Merthyr kindly consented to take, as soon as the
business of the House should permit, the further steps that are
necessary before the Committee could begin to sit. It will be
appreciated that the members of sucha Committee make a
serious sacriﬁce of their time and convenience in the public
interest; a debt of gratitude is due to Lord Merthyr for his
assiduity and to the Peers who have consented to serve.1

For some time past Mr. Lemuel Parker, who placed his
services at the disposal of ULAWS in an honorary capacity on
his retirement from the Board of Trade , has been establishing
contact with witnesses whose evidence is likely to be of value
to the Select Committee, and it is believed that ULAWS will
help the Committee considerably in elucidating the difﬁcult
problems with which it will have to deal.

The National Farmers’ Union and various other bodies
are actively engaged in preparing evidence for submission to
the Committee.

21

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

a: wr.,%iuf -,:_~77

HOUSE OF COMMONS. - -

In February, 1936, Viscount Tredegar wrote to all
members of the House of Commons inviting their support for
the principles underlying the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill.
He was, of course, unable to ask them to pledge their
support in advance for a bill whose terms may have to be
revised before its reintroduction, but he invited a provi-
sional expression of sympathy in general terms . The response
was far from being unsatisfactory, but it became clear that
many M.Ps. have been prevented by the multiplicity of the
demands made upon their attention from keepingabreast of
developments in our knowledge of the trapping problem. A
certain number even referred to the need, which, some years
.ago was supposed to exist, for the invention of a “humane
substitute for the rabbit trap’ ’ ! The postbag of a Member of
Parliament is heavy and its contents are diverse, but means
are being sought for conveying to the minds of these harassed
servants of the nation some of the fundamental facts of the
problem with which we are concerned.

In March 1936 the Society’s attention was called-to
questions put to the Minister of Health and suggesting that
rabbits killed by fumigation might be deleterious to the
public health. We at once communicated to the Ministry the
contrary information in our possession.

PROPOSAL FOR ACTION BY COUNTY AGR CULTURAL
AUTHORITIES. 4‘1" “- - ,
In May a circular letter, Signed by our PreSident and
covering several ULAWS publications, was sent to all
‘County Agricultural Organizers in Great Britain. The letter
called attention to the necessity for securing concerted action
in connection with the rabbit menace and to the value of
cyanide fumigation, and it raised the question whether
county authorities could take action in aid of farmers who
wished to get rid of their rabbits by this method. The letter
gave rise to widespread discussion upon the appropriate
county committees and a number of counties viewed the
proposal with sympathy. Of Special interest is the educa-
tional work undertaken by the County Agricultural Organizer
for Cornwall, where the need for combating the rabbit
menace is specially severe. Unfortunately it is not clear that
the County Authorities in England at present have any power
to institute fumigation services, though fumigation has been
energetically carried on by the Cork County Council.

A NEW MOVEMENT AGAINST THE RABBIT MENACE.

On April I3 a- letter was written to the T imes by Sir
Rowland Sperling calling attention to the ravages of rabbits

22




and inviting the co-operation of other persons interested in
this subject. ULAWS at once communicated with the writer
and a meeting was called at the Natural History Museum on
May 5. Those present included Sir Rowland Sperling
(Chairman), Lord Buckmaster, Brigadier—General H. F. E.
Lewin, Mr. Fraser Story (Forestry Commission), Mr. J. B.
Hart, Mr. R. G: Monro (George Monro, Ltd), Capt. C.
W. Hume (Honorary Secretary, ULAWS), Miss Marjorie
Chal‘le‘n (General Secretary, ULAWS), Dr. A. H. B.
Kirkman (ULAWS), Miss H. Bargmann (ULAWS), Dr. J.
Kennedy (Imperial Chemical Industries), Miss M. H. Joseph ,,
Mr. L. Parker, Mr. E. C. Read (Ministry of Agriculture),
Mr. M. A. C. Hinton (Natural History Museum), Mr. R.
Southby, Mr. J. Lamont (National Farmers’ Union), Mr.
G. P. Dixon, Mr. B. Bie (Messrs. Schering), Mr. W. P.’
Pycraft, and Captain Guy Dollman (Natural History
Museum). After considerable discussion the meeting agreed
to leave it to ULAWS to arrange for the motion in the House
of Lords referred to above, but at the unanimous request of
those present the terms of the motion were restricted to

'relate to rabbits only instead of to all rodents as had pre-‘

viously been intended. This restriction was agreed to by
ULAWS with some reluctance, but it undoubtedly had the
advantage of simplifying the task of the Select Committee.
Since that date further informal meetings have been held at
the Natural History Museum and the Society continues to
work in close touch with Sir Rowland Sperling and his
associates.
‘ PUBLICITY AND SUPPLY OF INFORMATION.

Numerous communications have been sent to the press
during the year. The most interesting of these were a letter
detailing the results of our questionnaire to ‘West-Country
farmers, which showed that rabbits do damage worth about
seven times as much as the farmer gets by selling them; and
an‘aCCOunt written by Mr. Lemuel Parker of a demonstration
of rabbit-catching with ﬂashlight and dog. '

A number of meetings have been devoted to the subject
of the gin trap. These are detailed elsewhere in this Report.

I The Society’s publications on rabbit-control are in
constant request. Information and advice is regularly being
given to .enquirers, and it is gratifying to ﬁnd that this is
highly appreciated. '

ORGANIZATIONS SUPPORTING THE CAMPAIGN.

On pages 19 and 20 of our last Annual Report we gave a.
list of eighty-four societies and public bodies which had
agreed to support our Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill. Since the

23

 

 

 

 




{W543y—7 K

_,_,_ - ,k _,_.,.. . - ,. , - M__;—_::;::; f,

publication of that Report we have been gratiﬁed to receive
notiﬁcationsof support from the Town Council of Coventry,
the Town Connoil of Oldham, and the Women’s Co—operative
Guild, who, at their Annual Congress in June 1936, passed
the following resolution: “This Congress, realising the awful
suffering endured by rabbits, and frequently domestic
animals, caught in gin traps, urges members to support the
Bill for the abolition of such traps.’ ’ ,

At the Annual Meeting of the National Federation of
Women’s Institutes on May 20 at the Albert Hall the
following resolution was carried by an almost unanimous
vote: ‘ ‘That this meeting, feeling that the restriction of
inhumane methods of rabbit—catching would stimulate
invention of humane methods, urges prohibition of the use of,
steel—toothed traps.” This was moved by Mrs. Baker
Cresswell (Amble, Northumberland) , and seconded by
Mrs. Clement Jones (N orthamptonshire). Though ULAWS
took no part in drafting the resolution or in securing a place
for it on the agenda , the Society was subsequently approached
by Mrs. Cresswell and was privileged to advise her in the
ensuing stages of her splendid ﬁght. ULAWS also enjoyed
the co-operation of the R.S.P.C.A. with whom it shared the
responsibility for a circular “The Rabbit Menace and the
'Gin Trap.’ ’ This was issued to Institutes freely in so far as
the requisite permission for such action could be obtained.
A platform ticket was generously allotted and the General
Secretary attended the meeting as representative of ULAWS.
Mrs . Cresswell was supported in the debate by Lady Trevelyan
and Lady Berwick, and was opposed by Lady Mabel Howard
(Central Executive) and Lady Strickland (Norfolk)- How-
«ever , there was never any doubt as to the views of the audience
and the resolution was carried by an overwhelming majority,
with few dissentients. This is especially noteworthy in View
«of the fact that the audience, nearly 7,000 strong, was com-
posed of country women from all districts who are well aware
of the need for drastic steps against the rabbit menace. We
are glad to take this opportunity of congratulating Mrs.
Cresswell on her splendid speech and of thanking the Head-
quarters of the National Federation for the very fair and
courteous way in which they dealt with the matter at a time
when the lack of a mandate precluded them from favouring
either side in the controversy.

A few days after the» passing of the resolution a letter was
circulated to the press jointly by the R.S.P.C.A. and
ULAWS drawing attention to this overwhelming majority
and claiming encouragement from the emphatic verdict.

 

 

 

 

 

24

 




 

CO—OPERATION WITH AND WORK or THE R.S.P.C.A.
A full account of the work of the R.S.P.C.A. can be

«obtained from 105, Jermyn Street, S.W.I, together with a

list of purveyors of humanely caught rabbits. We desire to
acknowledge cordially the spirit of co-operation shown by
that Society in numerous ways, and more particularly in
«connection with the annual meeting of the National Federa-
tion of Women’s Institutes and the proposed Select Com-
tmittee of the House of Lords. Further, a full-time
vdemonstrator of the Society, formerly a gamekeeper, is
employed in. giving practical demonstrations of humane
methods of dealing with rabets, and recently all the
inspectors in Devon and Cornwall were instructed in the use
of cyanide dusts. These are notable contributions to the
common cause.

It was with great pleasure that the Honorary Secretary
accepted an invitation to deliver an address to the Annual
Meeting of the Birmingham Branch of the R.S.P.C.A. on
June II, on The Problem of the Gin Trap. (See page 15 .)

Co-OPERATION WITH AND WORK or THE SCOTTISH S.P.C.A.

A full account of the work of the Scottish S.P.C.A. can
be obtained from 19, Melville Street, Edinburgh, 3.

The Scottish S.P.C.A. has continued, by press notices,
demonstrations, distribution of literature, and in correspon-
”dence to keep the subject of trapping well in the public eye . In
July a Scottish provincial newspaper published an alarmist
statement to the effect that food poisoning might result from

eating the carcases of gassed rabbits. The Scottish S.P.C.A.”
at once consulted an eminent physiologist, who gave an

unqualiﬁed reassurance as to the unfounded nature of the

allegations. This authoritative refutation was widely pub-

lished in the press.

Much opposition to the ”abolition of the gin trap has been
manifest in Scotland, where there is reluctance to forego the
proﬁt on sale of rabbits, and attempts were made to represent
“cyanide fumigation as ill-adapted to the nature of the
country. It became necessary to refute this claim, and
accordingly, by arrangement with the Scottish S.P.C.A.,
.Mr. McMath, who has had considerable experience in
.Australia, went to Scotland in September, 1935, to survey
rseveral estates which were suitable for tests. In October
Mr. Albert Mason , who had been working in West Wales with
apparatus provided by ULAWS, was sent to give a series of
demonstrations organized by the Scottish S.P.C.A., the
expense being shared between the two societies. Inspector
1Gordon of the Scottish S.P.C.A. took the opportunity to

25

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

become expert in the method, and subsequently gave demon—
strations on property belonging to, among others, Sir William:
Younger, Moffat (gravelly and sandy soil); The Rev. Mr ..
Mitchell, Dumfries (heavy loam); Mrs. Sim, Dunragit,..
W igtownshire (loam), and Glenluce (gravel, rocks); J. F ..
Sproat, Esq., Kirkcudbright (loam, gravel); Forestry
Commission, Alford, Aberdeenshire (light loam); H. P-
Mitchell, Esq., Tulliallan Castle, Kincardine-on-Forth.
(gravel and Cinders, railway embankment); Miss Moncur,
Gogar, Edinburgh (heavy brown soil) ; Scott & Co . , Coldrain,
Kinross (peaty soil); Jas. Gall, Esq., West Linton, Peeblesm
shire (sand, clay); S. Barr, Esq., Peebles (light soil); John»:
McKenzie, Esq., Rannoch, Perthshire (sand) ; Lord Cochrane:
of Cults, Crawford Priory, Fife (pure sand); Sir M. Naim,
Elie, Fife (sand). The Society’s help has been sought also»
in the case of warrens so extensive that the services of the.»
Inspector, for which no charge has been made, could not be:
spared for the purpose. Twenty tons of Cymag and 455.
rotary blowers have been sold in Scotland during the year.

CO-OPERATION WITH AND WORK OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.
FOR ANIMALs’ WELFARE.

A full account of the work of this Society can be obtained
at I , Featherstone Buildings , W .C .I. In the course of Animw
W'elfare Week, organized annually by the N .C.A.W., the
trapping problem receives full attention and we are indebted
to the Society’s journal, The Animals” Friend, fOr the
hospitality of its columns, which have Often enabled us to:
convey our views to a wide circle of animal-lovers. We are
indebted to this Society for the opportunity afforded by an.
important meeting in Oxford, reported on page I 5. ‘

CO-OPERATION WITH AND WORK OF THE FUR CRUSADE.

Major Van der Byl, Wappenham House, Towcester,
continues his energetic press and leaﬂet campaign under this:
title, and we are much indebted to him for his support of our
Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill.

HUMANENESS OF FUMIGATION.

Alarming statements were published during the year by
supporters Of the gin trap to the effect that cyanide fumiga--
tion inﬂicts prolonged and severe suffering. One distin—
guished public man living at Whitchurch, Salop, wrote to
the Manchester Guardian on June 2I, 1935, alleging that:
HCN is “the most irritating, horrible poison imaginable,”
and that the rabbits which escape ‘ ‘probably die slowly later
on of inﬂammatory diseases.’ ’ When challenged to produce;
evidence for this statement he replied “I only have the:

26

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

«opinionii div-two doctors ZWhomV‘I Consulted'at the time” ”and
{concluded ‘ ~‘ My main objection to the process is the waste of
:good human food.” He was unable to substantiate his
reckless statement in any way. Later, representatives of the
trap-manufacturers published statements to the effectthat a
mmpetent observer had sworn before a commissioner of oaths
that'animals subjected to the process in captivity had shown
:signsjof severe suffering, and the allegation was so cirCum—
:stantial that ULAWS felt bound to take cognizance of it. It
is well known , of course , from abundant experience that sub-
.lethal dOSes of HCN produce no after—effects and only the most
ignorant Can have any doubt on this point. Nor could there
be any honest doubt that strong doses produce instant death.
But as regards the immediate effects of a very small concentra—
‘tiOnof HCN , although we had ample reason for believing the
»objections to its use to be unfounded , nevertheless we thought
it advisable to obtain an authoritative decision. We are very
ggreatly‘, indebted to one of our V ice-Presidents, Professor
J. H. Burn, Dean of the College of the Pharmaceutical
Society, for carrying out the requisite investigation. We are
happy to be able to record that the results entirely justiﬁed
rour advocacy of the method on the ground of humaneness.
Independent investigations have been carried out by the
R.S .P.C.A. and the Scottish S .P.C.A. with concordant
results.

We are further indebted to Professor Burn for investigat-
ing another of the fumigants which are at present on the
market for rabbit—control, but in this instance the results
were not so satisfactory in respect of humaneness. At present
we are recommending no fumigants except the cyanide dusts,
*Cyanoga‘s, Cymag and. Calcid, made by three different ﬁrms.
Needless to say, no ofﬁcer of ULAWS has any ﬁnancial inter—
est in the matter, nor has our Australian collabOrator, Mr.
.D. G. Stead. '

PROHIBITION OF THE GIN TRAP IN GERMANY.

The use of steel plate traps (Teller—eisen) was forbidden.

by the German Reichs Hunting Law of July 3, 1934, and
the sale of such traps was prohibited by rules under the Act

dated March 27, 1935. The use and sale of the gin trap is.

therefore illegal in Germany, but the swan—neck trap
'(Schwanenhalse) is widely employed. This trap is well
known in France as the piége d engrenages, but is unknown in
Britain; it is a baited trap with jaws but no footplate, stated
to kill outright. It is further considered that the use of traps
calculated to inﬂict pain would infringe the Reichs Law for
the Protection oflAnimals dated November 24.,» 1933, which

27

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

carries penalties up to two years’ imprisonment and a ﬁne of?
RM. ro,ooo, about £500.

REQUIREMENTS OF A HUMANE VERMIN TRAP.

Although trapping of any kind is, for economic reasons,..
an unsuitable method of dealing with rabbits, breakback
traps and double-doored cage traps are useful for catching;
rats, stoats and other predatory mammals. While many
excellent traps are on the market there appears to be room.
for an improved breakback. trap for stoats and weasels having:
the following characteristics: (1) it must be capable of being;
set in a tunnel or drain pipe; (ii) it must be triggered by a.
footplate or treadle without bait; (iii) the striker must be:-
arched and stand vertically when set , so as to move through.
only 90°; (iv) the stroke must kill equally well whether the
animal enters from the front or the back; (v) the trap must be:
cheap and light , and must fold ﬂat in the released condition ..
It should be noted that since the striker is to move through.
half the usual distance the spring will require to have four
times the usual strength.

VIRUS OF M yxomatosz's cnm’cnli.

Numerous attempts have been made 1n Australia to deal--
with rabbits by means of various viruses. These have been;
universally unsuccessful when used in the ﬁeld, though many
of them gave great promise under experimental conditions-
Propaganda on the subject of Virus has the great disadvantage
that it discourages farmers from using other methods, by
teaching them to look for a miracle when what is needed is,
hard work.

One virus, A! yxomatosz's cnnicnlz', has not hitherto been;
fully tried out in the ﬁeld, and in some quarters great success
is expected for it. Apart from questions as to its effective-
ness and its safety from the point of View of public health, as,
to which fuller information is requisite, ULAWS is greatly
concerned at the severe suffering inﬂicted by this particular"
disease. The animals take several days to die, while the‘
symptoms include purulent conjunctivitis and severe in-
flammation and suppuration of the genitalia. The procedure-
is to inoculate through the eyes or the testes. It is improbable
that such a means will be tolerated in our humane country,
even if it should be found to be serviceable.

VI . CONFERENCES AND EXCURSION S .

CONFERENCES .

Antnmn week-end conference, 1935. As in 1933 and 1934 ,,.
our annual week—end conference was held at High Leigh ,_,
Hoddesdon in November. The. attendance of ofﬁcers and:

28




other senior members who are actively engaged in the work
and of student members was greater than ever before.
Twenty-two students from college branches and twenty-
seniors attended. The activities throughout were of an:
informal nature and some valuable discussions were held on.
our plan of campaign, with special reference to the branch.
activities.

The following is an outline of the programme. On.
Friday evening, November I5, teams from branch colleges
took part in two debates: (a) that the wearing of furs is to be»-
deprecated and (b) that mankind should be classed as vermin.
There was a lively discussion on both these subjects. On.
Saturday morning under the chairmanship of Kenneth Bird.
(Fougasse) a discussion was held on ULAVV S: Retrospect.
and Prospect. After a summary of the work of ULAWS.
during 1935, which included an interesting account by Mr.
McMath of his visit to Scotland to supervise fumigation
trials, an important discussion took place on the work during
the coming session 1935-36 and some valuable suggestions
were made for future activities. The Honorary Secretary
concluded the meeting by looking still farther into the.
future, indicating the guiding lines of policy to be followed.
in years to come. '

Later in the day ﬁlms were shown. These included Dr .
Vin'ter’s 1935 ﬁlm of animals in North Africa, Captain Buck—
ley’s ﬁlm of elephants in India and a ﬁlm of Grey Owl’s.
beavers in Canada. Colonel Shorthose, on leave from;
Africa, gave an account of the plight of the fauna of that
continent. The day closed with a recital of animal songs by
Miss Christine McClure who again delighted us with her-
beautiful singing.

On Sunday morning the Service in the High Leigh-
Chapel was conducted by students. Mr. Trevenna, of
Richmond Theological College, preached an inspiring
sermon; he and Mr. Heydon, of the Theological Department ,
King ’5 College, conducted the Service. General Mowat, our-
Honorary Treasurer, and Mr. Harrow, a veterinary student,
read the lessons. In the afternoon the chair for the closing
discussion was taken by General Mowat, when the suggestions.
put forward. the previous day were summed up.

The Council is convinced that an annual conference such.
as this is of very great value on account of the social links.
made between seniors and students and also of the oppor‘

Vtunity given for discussion of the Society ’5 progress and plans.

Summer Conference 1936. Owing to the great kindness of
General and Mrs. Hoare Nairne a party of branch secretaries
and ofﬁcers visited Turville Lodge, near Henley. Our host.

29

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

:and hostess entertained us to lunch at Phyllis C0111I Henley,
and a Valuable discussion on next session’ s work took place
in the grounds after which the party accompanied their
hostess to Turville Park f01 tea A walk through the woOds
ended an entirely delightful day in which a number of useful
proposals for future activities were made. >
We are profoundly indebted to Mrs Hoare Nairne for the
kindness which prompted her to extend this invitation to us
and we cordially thank General Hoare N airne and Miss Hoare
\lalrne also for their kindness 1n joining us. ~

EXCURsroNs.

Pathological Laboratory, Zoological Gardeizs. Colonel
Hamerton, Pathologist to the Zoological Society, gave a
lecture to a party of Students on Tuberculosis in theCaptive
VVild'; Animal. This was followed by a Visit to the
pathological laboratories and the post—mortem room, where
Colonel Hamerton explained the work done in his department.

‘ Royal Veterinary College. Once again Sir Frederick
Hobday invited a party of students to V isit the new buildings
“of the College. Mr. Southern kindly acted as guide to the
clinics, Operating theatres and the museum. An exhibitiOn
by Mr. Southern of ﬁlms explaining the work of the College
conc111ded an interesting visit.

The National Institute for Research in Dairying, Shin-
fielcl By invitation of Dr. Kay, the Director of the Insti—
t11te, a small party of ULAWS members enjoyed a mest hoSpi—
table reception at the resea'rCh laboratories, library, model
cowsheds and dairies one Saturday afternoon. Members of
the staff kindly remained on duty to give personal explana—
t1ons .of their work. .

Wye Agricultural College. Thirty students and senior
:mer’nbers were received by the Assistant Principal in; the
regretted absence of the Principal through ill -health_, and
were entertained for a Whole day. The morning was spent in
.a discussion on The ULAWS Panel of Speakers, under the
{chaim‘ianship of Dr. S. G. Brade— Birks. The Wye lecturers
1epo'rted on their work and experiences, and ideas were
brought forward for the extension of the panel in both the
‘Wye branch and the branches in London.

After a picnic lunch, the party made a tour of the College
bu1ld1ngs and farms and was entertained to tea in the
historic refectory, which IS part of the original College of Wye
huilt in the 15th century

, Zoological Gardens. Under the leadership oer. Stoner
and; MriiSaunders a party of twenty students visited .a. number

30'

 




of the houses. It was at this outing that Mr. Southern took
theﬁlm mentioned on page 19. .. I ‘: ~- ~25;

. Zoological Park, Whipsnade. A party of seniors and
students visited Whipsnade on May .22. We were very
glad to welcome in the party-Mlle. Ruperto , the organizer! Of
SPANA in North Africa, Mrs. Baker Cresswell, who mOVed
the resolution at the Annual Meeting Of the National Federa—v
tiOn- of -Women’s Institutes (see page 24) and Dr. Millard,
ULAWS travelling correspondent. The party was con--
ducted by the head keeper whose knowledge Of the animals.
and willingness to supply information were much appre—-
ciated. Captain Beal, the Superintendent, joined the party
at tea in the Fellows’ pavilion. .

We eXtend our cordial thanks to all those who, by their
kind co-Operation, made possible the organization of these.
outings. . ,

VII. INFORMATION BUREAU.

COLLECTION OF INFORMATION. ,

Hitherto this department of our work has been mainly ,.
though not exclusively, concerned with the topics dealt. with
in our publications or mentioned in this Report. We are--
anxious to make the undertaking more systematic than it is.
permitted to be by our present resources. Meanwhile we
appeal to members to make themselves responsible for collect—
ing information on any topics, relevant to our aims, with
which they may be specially qualiﬁed to deal.

;: Wye College Branch, circular to veterinary surgeons. A
circular was sent to two hundred veterinary surgeons in
England, including those who had already shown interest
in the work of ULAWS. They were asked to state the ways.
in which ‘ ‘improved care and knowledge would lead tO im-
proved comfort or the avoidance Of unnecessary suffering ,.
particularly in the handling Of marketable stock." ' The:
majority of the replies show that in general stock is well.
cared for on the farm, but that unnecessary suffering is still
inﬂicted during transit and in the markets by those who are
not so accustomed to handling the animals as the farmers.
themselves. Replies also mention over-stocking Of cows.

: ; Mr. Beazley, late of Wye College branch, has provided.
some notes which afford a valuable basis for further work.

Sterilization be rays. It is possible that the use of X.
rays , which are known to produce sterilization under suitable

conditions, might serve as a- substitute for the ' operations.

,3:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

without anaesthetics which are at present necessary in ,

agricultural practice. The advice of Dr. Levitt, a leading
authority on this subject, was sought, and though the
present state of knowledge does not permit of any positive
assertion of an optimistic nature , it appears that the proposal
is by no means a nugatory one. Unfortunately the practical
requirements as to cost , safety of the operator, and effective-
.ness of the treatment cannot be met without an extensive
[preliminary investigation which would cost at least £1,000,
.and the subject has had to be laid aside for the present.

PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED.

The following magazines have been given regularly by
supporters z—Fur-Fish—Game, The Gamekeeper, The Farmer
and Stockbreeder, The Farmers’ Weekly, Veterinary Record.
Members of the Council are watching the following publica-
tions for items of special interest: The Animals’ Friend,
The Animal World, School Nature Study, journal of Ecology,
National Geographical Magazine.

The ULAWS subscription for press cuttings covers
allusions to trapping and kindred topics.

We are glad to acknowledge receipt of the following
papers from foreign societies 2——

A .S .T . News. Anti-Steel-Trap League, Washington.

Various pamphlets. Emergency Conservation Com-
mittee, New York. .

The Tree of Mercy. Hon. Editor, Gwynneth Glanville,
in co-operation with the Animal Welfare Societies
of South Africa.

.Australian Wild Life. Journal of the Wild Life Preser-
vation Society of Australia.

.4th Annual Report of Waikato Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. Hamilton, New Zealand.

7 28th Annual Report of the Marin County Humane Society.
California.

Le De’fenseur des Animaux. L’Association francaise
pour la Défense des Animaux (France).

.Animalia. La Société Royal Protectrice des Animaux
(Belgium).

‘Tierrecht. Journal of the Czechoslovakian Animal
Welfare Society.

.13 l Amigo del Hombre. Asociacion Protectora, Madrid.

Vol. III . Priroda i sozialistichestkoye khozyaistvo.
Society for Nature Protection in Moscow.

13" he Friend of Animals. Monthly journal of the Society
for the Protection of Animals, Athens.

32

 




 

Bulletin du Comtte’ jurtdz'que International pour la
Protection des Animaux. Edited by Louis Lespine ,_
Paris.

Miss Margit Baur, of Ziirich, has published several
articles in French and German. based on the material con-
tained in Facts about F ms. ULAWS has also provided her
with photographs of trapped animals for the illustrations.

RABBIT-CONTROL .

A vast quantity of information on this subject continues
to be collected and supplied to the farming community and
others. It is impracticable to give full details, but various
references to the subject will be found in other parts of this
report.

VIII. PUBLICATIONS.
ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS.

ULAWS Monograph 50: Children and their Pets, by M. D.
Austin, Assistant Lecturer, South—Eastern Agricultural
College. This is a report of a- tour carried out by Mr.
Austin in the schools of Flintshire in September, 1935
(see page I7) and described in our last Report. It was
circulated to all the Education Authorities in Great
Britain and as a result 400 copies are already in use-in
schools. In addition , I ,300 copies have been distributed
by the National Council for Animals’ Welfare and the
Humane Education Society.

ULAWS Monograph 7a: The Pathological Effects of Poisons
Used for Rodents, by J. G. Wright, Lecturer in
Surgery and Materia Medica, Royal Veterinary College.

ULAWS Monograph 7b: Rat—Control, by J. D. Hamer,
Consultant Chemist to the Orient Line.

A Message from Grey Owl.

Bulletins of activities Oct I-~Dec. 3r, 1935, and Jan.
I to June 30, 1936 (superseded by this Report).

The Gin Trap (leaﬂet showing live cat in trap).

Animal Year—Book, Vol. IV. Helene E. Bargmann and
J. R. Harman, joint—editors, are at work on this
and publication early in the new year is expected.

ON RABBIT—CONTROL.

The Rabbit Menace and the Gin Trap—questions and
answers on the rabbit problem published jointly by
ULAWS and the R.S.P.C.A.

33

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Reprmt from Bradford Telegram and Argusu Asﬁralia’ S
-uaPublicEnemy.No. 1.- . »
Reprint from the International journal, Rapport sur le
Probleme du Piégeage.E K .4 W ‘ ,.
Instructions for Rabbit-prooiFencing by J”. R‘.‘ Harman
Rabbiting with a DaZZIe Light by L. Parker. {2/1.-
"The Rabbit in Australia, by David G. Stead, formerly
Special Rabbit-Menace Commissioner in New South

. -. Wales. ULAWS is sole agent in Great Britain for this
5.- book. ' 5‘

IX. ANIMAL WELFARE ABROAD.

NORTH AFRICA.

Dr. Jean Vinter, our Honorary Secretary for Animals
.Abroad, paid a second visit to North Africa in October, 1935.
This was preceded by a stay in Marseilles with Mlle. Ruperto,
‘SPANA’s Director in North Africa. All the animal-pro-
tection societies in the town were visited and efforts were made
to stimulate them into activity against bull ﬁghting, though
without marked success. .

. I In North Africa Dr. Vinter stayed in Algiers and also
travelled with Mlle. Ruperto to Constantine and Biskra.
At the latter town SPANA has been able to re-start itsvwork,
which had to be suspended during the ﬁnancial crisis through
which SPANA recently passed. Dr. Vinter made a second
ﬁlm illustrating the work of SPANA and the conditions of
the animals. The premiére of the ﬁlm took place at the
Hoddesdon Conference of ULAWS in November. On her
return journey, Dr. Vinter went to Montpellier and inter~
viewed Mme. Bastard of the SPCA. , Professor Paul
Delmas of the University of Montpellier who is also a mem-
ber of the local S.P.C.A., and Mr. Marr, Principal of the
College des Ecossais. Bull ﬁghts are held in Montpellier but
not with mise a moat. Dr. Vinter found the Society. forythle
Protection of Cruelty to Animals in Montpellier, an active
body but unfortunately short of funds. ' ' " _

Mlle. Ruperto paid a return visit to England in May last
as the guest of Dr. Vinter ; the Chairman and General -. Sec—
retary of ULAWS were very glad to be able to visit Hastings
on May 25 to attend the reception organized for herby. D-r.
Vinter. Mlle. Ruperto carries out a ceaseless struggle in and
around Algiers against the cruel treatment meted out by the
natives to their animals. This is due to ignorance. in the
majority of cases. ’ , ~.-, ..

The Education Secretary attended the SPAN-A animal

34

 

 




 

 

4 4..._uv_w __ ﬁ,. 444 I

really. follOwed up.

general meeting and had the privilege of saying-’afewzwords.

atthe closeofthe meeting. ,

. -~ - . -DR.§MILLARD’s TRAVELS. = z *
f ."'”O'ur' Etravelling 1‘ corresponding“ ‘ member, "Dr. 'S'Millar‘d,
returned to England in January last, ' after a world tour
laSting'three years. The neWS of his travels giVen in? our” last
Report shewed that he had reached the’ GeOrge 'Washington
University 'where he made 50me intereSting and Valuable

.‘lcoiniltacts.~ He then Visited Columbia University. MiszF .‘ E.

Clafke‘ Who is attached‘t'o the Humane Education: Depaft‘-

‘ ment‘ 50f the; SP .C .A . organized " a‘ meeting for Dr ‘. ‘ Millard at

illihich he spoke on the need'for‘ anima1_,Welfaret s0cietiies in
the'un‘iVerSities'of the World‘. - -' ' '
The problems confronting thefounder of a Society "such
’asfo‘urs? in the University of Collimbia would be difﬁcult but
the"tas1{‘is‘w0rth attempting sinCe there are thousands of
studentsin the university. Contacts have been gmade by

Dr. Millardzin this and other universities, and ULAXWS is

keepingin touch with these sympathisers in the hope" that

eventually, when funds and ofﬁcers’ time permit, the val—

uable exploration work done by Dr. Millard may beenergeti—

, . . "AUSTRALIA. ' . ‘ 3, ,
Appealfor help from M 1/. Stead. The following- Cable was

received from the Wild Life Preservation Society of Australia

atrthegendof, Junelast: __ . _ .

, fWild life Preservation SoCiety desires (yeast;—

j. fdeavourprohibit entry skins of VAustralian opossums.
Queensland GoVernment has declaredopen seasonlywhich
is, we are ﬁghting. President United States prohibited
- _;:V._.k0ala.0_ur request. . _, ‘ - j g
,-,~ :, . (signed) .STEAD, Science H0use.;
' ~ - The Open season referred to was declared for the month
of July. The closing words refer to the previous prohibitiOn
of the importation of koala skins into America. We must
point out that action similar'to that: taken by the President
of the United States cannot be taken in this country,'where
aniiAct ofParliamentwould be'required. w ‘ “Iv
The S‘eriousneSs of the present situation is made, evident
by the dire results of previous open seasons and the rapidly
diminishing numbers ‘of- OpOSSums which the trappers
sucCeeded-in taking on each occasion. For the open period of
I919-I920, no feWer than 7,500,000 skins were taken, and
during ‘19I9-192I, 4,260,000 Were exported. ' In 1923-the
trappers-could take only 1,200,000 whilst in the last-open
season, 1931 , the numbers fell to about 700,000. --Mr.~Stead

.35

 

 




 

 

 

turther tells us that some very imaginative reasons for the
open season of 1936 were given by the Queensland Govern-

ment. One reason was an alleged danger that opossum skins -

might go out of fashion! Another was that the open season
‘ ‘would give employment to some of the unemployed,”
although in factthework is done by the regular trappers.

Dr. Kirkman took up this matter at once and a letter
from his pen was published in the Times. He also took the
ﬁrst opportunity of placing an outline of the facts before a
meeting of the Society for the Preservation of the Fauna of
the Empire, which asked Dr. Kirkman to submit a complete
statement to be considered at the next meeting of its Execu-
tive Committee. Further, ULAWS communicated with the
Board of Trade in regard to the matter.

This is all that could be done by the end of July and a
report of further action will be included in our next issue.

A visitor. Mrs. Lort Smith, of the Melbourne Animal
Welfare League, made contact with ULAWS during a visit
, to England in the summer this year and very kindly invited
us to contribute a message for inclusion in an account of her
travels to be broadcast from Melbourne. The opportunity
was taken to put before Australiansympathisers the problem
created by the export of trapped rabbits from that dOmi-nion
to England.

INDIA.

The Rev. Lawrence Linton, an old member of ULAWS
from Richmond College, is now a Chaplain at Ferozepore,
Punjab. , Before entering the Ministry he was in the 8th
Hussars and has always been intensely interested in animals.
Finding that domestic animals in his district suffer con-
siderably, Mr. Linton instituted an animal shelter Where
natives may seek help and advice. We are glad that an old
member of ULAWS is carrying out practical work in a distant
land.

NEW ZEALAND.

Silent Peter and Mother Machree have frequently
referred to the work of ULAWS in their very excellent
humane articles published in the New Zealand press.

WEST AFRICA.

It was a pleasure to welcome Lt—Col. Shorthose on leave
from West Africa, but less pleasurable to hear his account of
the plight of the fauna of that region. His paper has since
been published in the International Journal which is referred
to on page 38.

36

. ‘._‘.




OTANI UNIVERSITY, KYOTO, JAPAN.

As was mentioned in our last Annual Report, the Animal
"Welfare Society at this university was formed during the
year then under review. Since the publication of that Report
.,a communication was received by Dr.- F. Jean Vinter, our
..1-Ionorary Secretary for Animals Abroad, which reads as
follows—-

“In the autumn we had a small committee meeting .
here at our house and we resolved to work in three ways:

(I) To have lectures at the College with the idea of

interesting students and others. (2) To issue some

printed matter. (3) To try to erect a drinking fountain.

The ﬁrst thing we did was to get out a printed folder.

This was a copy Of an article of mine which had appeared

in a Japanese magazine. In this article I wrote of

animal welfare work and my own Views on the humane
treatment of animals. We had 1000 printed. I enclose
one and if you would care tO read the original English
article, I will have it typed and sent to you. On Nov-
ember I8th, our first lecture took place at Otani College.

I spoke ﬁrst in English telling something about the need

for the humane treatment of animals. Dr. Suzuki

interpreted this adding something of his own. The main
address was given by Mr. Shugaku Y amabe, an eminent

Buddhist scholar and lecturer. Afterwards, we had a

tea party for those most interested. At this lecture the

printed folder was distributed. We intend to have
another lecture early next year and another printed
folder telling about our own Society and its aims. Next
year we shall work to get the fountain and perhaps more
than one. Each fountain will cost about 200 yen (about

7620). I wish I had more time for this work in my busy

life, but I shall do what I can. Best wishes to you and

the work in England.”

The letter is dated December 1st, 1935 and signed by
7Mrs. Beatrice Lane Suzuki who is the founder and organizer
cof the Otani Society.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH WORKERS ABROAD.

Correspondence was conducted by the Honorary Secretary
:for Animals Abroad with the following persons and organiza-
tions, from whom Reports have been received alsO.——~M7’.
Reynolds, jemsalem S.P.C .A. (Jackal traps sent from
Humane Traps Ltd. Correspondence on the landing of live—
~::stock at Haifa. Informed that landing by the horns or leg
«has been discontinued. Goats and sheep in pens, large
”animals gang-way or belly band). M 1’. Aziz, Cyprus

37

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

S.P.C.A. (Correspondence on "Sending Out some educa»
tional ﬁlms; we hope to arrange this). Mme. Linker-Gerber,
Bohm-Leigba, Czechoslovakia. (CorrespOndenceon landing VOiii
ainirnals in Syria). Mlle. Raperto, SPANA, Algiers. Mrs.
Bonwick, Chosen S .P.C .A . Mrs. M ezos, Ahmednagar,vIndia-
Government of Pnerto Rico. (Protest sent on advice of Dr.
Millard against the Government’s advertisement of cock—

fighting as one of the attractions of the island which belongs.

to U.S.A. R.S.P.C.A. also protested). ' Gibraltar S.P{C.A .
Aime. ;Bastard, Montpellier S.P.C.A . Mr. Miller, Athens.
Dr. Kathleen Vine, Amritsar S.P.C.A. Cape of GoodEHope
S P ;.C .A. American Fondonk at Fez. British :ngianar
S.P.C.A. OldWar Horse Memorial Hospital, Cairo. 2'

”INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ANIMAL PROTEcrIoN.

‘ Our last Annual Report mentioned the International,-
Congress in Brussels in August, 1935. At this congress the.
International journal of Animal Protection was instituted.
Its publishers are the Scottish S.P.C.A., and its Honorary
Editor is Mr. L. G. Langwill, Secretary and Treasurer of‘
that Society. It was ﬁrst published in November, 1935: it
has appeared twice annually, in May and November, and.
articles are printed in English, French and 'Ger’man.
ULAWS has had the honour of contributing articles to the-
ﬁrst two issues. These numbers are full of interest and we
stmngly recommend this journal to our readers. Itficostsx
I/6J.'per annum and is issued by'the Scottish S.P.C.AI, 19,
Melville Street, Edinburgh, 2. _. .;

1 .Our very hearty congratulations are offered to Mr.
Langwill and to the Scottish S.P.C .A. for a very noteworthy"
undertaking and an important contribution to the literature
issued on animal protection. .By this publication the Scottish.
S.P.C.A. has demonstrated once more its very live interest
in the welfare of animals abroad. . , 3

Unfortunately, although the circulation of the journal?
has made excellent progress, the initial outlay requisite for
launching such a publication is considerable, -In this; in»
stance it has been borne by the Scottish S.P.C.A. alone and.
we learn with regret that it may be impossible: for the journal
to be continued after its third: number unless some specially
generous support is forthcoming. . . .. . i

" ‘ ' X’ VARIA.

_ . INCREASE or ACTIVITIES. ; , , .

i As an indication 0f the very rapid expansion whichhas-
been inprogress during the past; two years: we give the i01-
low‘ing ﬁgures. They are for the .two headquarters ofﬁces

38

 

 




and do not include the telephone calls and correspondence
of the h0norary ofﬁcers, which are of considerable and 111-
zcreasing volume, nor the letters sent out in postal appeals.
' Letters dispatched from the ofﬁces:

I934 -35-——4251 _ 1935-36-—6420
Telephone calls outgomg from the ofﬁces:
1934-35—771 193536—197I

FURTHER CO-OPERATION WITH THE VETERINARY PROFESSION .

A letter signed by the President was circulated to London
veterinary surgeons who are graduates of the Royal College
pf Veterinary Surgeons. So far one hundred and ﬁfty haVe
expressed thei1 sympathy with the aims and methods of
ULAWS. .

AFFILIATIONS AND REPRESENTATION AT CONGRESSES AND ON
COMMITTEES.

ULAWS IS a Recognised University Society, afﬁliated to
the University of London Union and subject to the regula—
tions for the 1ecognition of University Societies and Clubs.

It is also a member of the Society for the Preservation of
the Fauna of the Empire, of the Association of Special Lib-
raries and Information Bureaux and of the South Eastern
Union of Scientiﬁc Societies (itself afﬁliated to the British
Association for the Advancement of Science).

Conference of Educational Associations. Since the
afﬁliation of ULAWS in 1929 the Chairman has repre—
sented ULAWS on the Council of the Conference. In May last
he wasappointed to serve for a term of three years on its
Executive Committee.

National Council of Women. The General Secretary
represents ULAWS on the Sectional Committee for the
Humane Treatment of Animals.

British Board of Film Censors. Dr. Kirkman and Dr.

Millard have represented ULAWS on the Committee set up
to scrutinize certain animal ﬁlms submitted to the censor.

THE IOTH BIRTHDAY OF ULAWS.

. The idea of celebrating our 10th birthday originated with
«our President. A few of the , earliest friends of ULAWS

combined to subscribe an amount of £100 towards expenses

connected with the Select Committee (see page 21') and
together with this cheque to present the Honorary Secretary
with a token of appreciation of his unfailing service to the
fSociety'since he founded it. A little dinner took place on

«May 1-4 when the Honorary Secretary was the guestof honour

and, toghis entire surprise, he was presented with the £100

39

 

 

 




 

 

cheque and an attaché case fOr Carrying his ULAWS papers...
By a happy concidence, the motion for the Select Committee,-
was moved by Lord Merthyr in the House of Lords on the same.»
evening. Lord Merthyr very kindly telephoned the result.
to the restaurant so that the passing of this motion could be ~
announced in the course of the evening.

UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, EXETER.

It was with regret that we learned that our sister society —
at this college had not proved to be viable. We are main--
taining touch, however, with Miss Stephenson, Lecturer in.
Zoology, and other sympathisers in the college, and working.
as individuals she and other members of the college staff and.
students were able to organize a demonstration of cyanide
fumigation and to produce a useful I6—mm. ﬁlm of the .
process.

A COMPLIMENT TO ULAWS METHODS.

The following extract from the Advertisers’ Weekly will...
no doubt interest our members.

“There is that excellent little campaign of small
‘spaces in the press run in the interest of the humane
“trapping (sic) of rabbits. It might so easily have been
“maudlin, in the manner of people who are not embar‘
“rassed by the description of ‘animal—lovers’ ; or it
“might have exploited cruelty and horror to a degree
“which would have made us, in comfortable self-protec—
“tion, murmur that ‘They’re only vermin, anyway.”
“But the society responsible for the campaign has the -
“good sense to employ (sic) Fougasse to illustrate the ..
“advertisements in his usual light-hearted style. The
“effect is to establish a human relationship with the
reader in which an appeal to his humanity and good-
sense can be made without sentimentality .....

“Horror is a two—edged weapon in the hand of the

“propagandist, as the various attempts at peace —

”publicity Show.”

We are muCh encouraged by this commendation of our‘
methods by an expert on the subject of publicity, It should...
be added, however, that far from being “employed” by-
ULAWS, our Honorary Artist is one of the most forceful of“:
the ofﬁcers managing its affairs!

{

( (

I l

PREPARATION OF VACCINE LYMPH .

During a visit to Algiers in 1935 Dr. Vinter visited the-
Pasteur Institute and found that a change had recently been-
made there in the method of preparing vaccine lymph. Vac.=:--

4o




cine lymph is obtained by inoculating calves with infective
material and, after a period of incubation, collecting the
contents of the vesicles which develop on the animals’ ab-
domens. The change made in Algiers consisted in killing the
calf at the end of the incubation period and thus collecting
the lymph from the dead instead of from the living calf..

On returning to England she made enquiries as to the
methods used in the production of vaccine lymph in Eng-
land. She found that the Lister Institute and Evans Bio-
logical Institute killed the calf before extracting the lymph,
whereas the Government Lymph Establishment and the
Jenner Institute did not do so. Dr. Vinter, representing
ULAWS, was subsequently granted an interview at the
Ministry of Health; the President of ULAWS also wrote to
the- Ministry asking for a reconsideration of the wording of
that part of the Therapeutic Substances Act which refers to
the preparation of vaccine lymph. The relevant paragraph
at present reads as follows:

“When the vaccine lymph has been collected, the
animal if not previously killed shall be killed, and a
thorough post-mortem examination of the carcase shall
be made by a qualiﬁed expert . . . .”

A letter was afterwards received from an Ofﬁcial of the
Ministry; the following is an extract :———

“The Department was impressed by the fact that
our procedure did cause concern to reasonable people,
and immediately steps were taken to secure reconsider-
ation of the whole matter. I am glad to inform you that
as a result, and so far as our own establishment is
concerned, the practice of slaughter immediately before
removal of the lymph was introduced about three months
ago.

“There remains the larger question of making this
a general requirement about which your President wrote
to the Ministry in August. This has been noted for
consideration when the regulations are being amended.’ ’

ELECTRIC IMMOBILIZATION.

The Honorary Secretary was invited to contribute an
article to the Lancet on the effects of electric stimulation.
It is possible that existing doubts as to the conditions which
produce real unconsciousness and those which produce only
its appearance may be cleared up in the course of time. We
have received through the courtesy of the Editor of Nature

41

 

 

 

 




 

a communication from Professor Kalendaroft of Leningrad,
who for three years has been experimenting not only on
animals, but also on sane and insane human beings, the
results being veriﬁed on the experimenters themselves. On
the information available it is not possible to judge of the
conclusions to be drawn, but early publication of the full
results is expected. The Honorary Secretary was also invited
to communicate to the veterinary surgeons’ committee on
euthanasia a statement as to the electrical conditions requisite
for humane electrocution.

MR . JOHN MCMATH.

lt was with mixed feelings that we heard of Mr. John
McMath’s appointment to a post in a large mining and
engineering concern in Tanganyika. Mr. McMath rendered
valuable service to ULAWS both during his time of study at
King ’5 College and after his ﬁnal examination had been taken.
Before his attendance at King’s College he was working as a
farmer in Australia, and it is to him that we owe our intro-
duction to David G. Stead and his work on the rabbit
problem, which has been of great value to our campaign.
We are also indebted to Mr. McMath for the part he played as
ULAWS representative in the gassing demonstrations carried
out in Scotland (see page 25) . Though we were glad to know

:ithe excellent post to which he was appointed, we were very
sorry indeed to lose him from this country, and he has carried
with him to Tanganyika our very best wishes and warmest
thanks.

It is interesting to remember that Mr. McMath originally
joined the Society through attending a ULAWS meeting at
King’s College for the purpose of disposing of a stock of ﬁre-
works lelt over from a cancelled political meeting.

MR. WENMAN-SMITH’S COLLECTION FOR ANTI-STEEL—TRAP
FUNDS.

The following items are of interest in connection with
Mr. Wenman-Smith’s collection of £243. £87 was
received through letters in the press which brought money
from all over the United Kingdom, from such distant places
as Johannesburg and Bombay and included I / - from an old
age pensioner and 7/- from a very poor sister of a religious
community. {50 was received from one generous subscriber,
the balance being subscribed by previous donors.

 




 

STUDY GROUP or KING’S CoLLEGE BRANCH.

Under the guidance of the Rev. Dr. Harold Smith ,.
Lecturer in Comparative Religion at King’s College, a group:
of theological student members investigated the question of
man’s relationship to animals according to the teachings of
the Old and New Testaments. We are very grateful to Dr.
Smith for giving so much of his time and thought to this study ..

XI ACKNOWLEDGMENTS .

In the pages of this Report are recorded many expres—
sions of thanks for individual help. ‘We take this opportunity
of warmly thanking all the friends not mentioned by name
who have contributed to our progress by their encouragement,
voluntary work and donations.

We have also to record once more our gratitude to the
staff and the ofﬁcers of students’ unions in colleges of the
university for their continued goodwill, which has been of"
inestimable advantage to the harmonious conduct of our
work. ‘We are equally grateful to our genial and sympa-
thetic landlords, the ofﬁcers of the University Union.

Messrs. Chas. Rooke Lane and Company have again given
us most generous help by auditing our accounts in an hon-
orary capacity. We very highly appreciate this great service.
and we appreciate equally their willingness to help us when—
ever we are in need of expert advice. ,

To the Press we continue to be indebted for constant
support. Publicity is especially valuable in the campaign
against the gin trap, success in which will be assured when
the public has been educated to understand the facts of the-
matter in their economic and their humanitarian aspects.

We have also to thank our printers, Messrs. Wadsworth
and Company, who throughout the year have given prompt
and willing attention to our many urgent requests.

WORK or THE SALARIED STAFF.

The Council desire to record their congratulations to the
salaried staff on the very remarkable quantity and quality of
the year’s work. Readers of this Report may ﬁnd it hard to-
believe that the staff consisted of one part—time General
Secretary, one full—time Education Secretary, and two
assistants who are responsible for shorthand—typewriting,
book-keeping and the like. That so much has been achieved.
and that the services of the honorary workers have been so
effectively utilized is due to the unstinted enthusiasm with
which the salaried staff have organized the team-work of the-
Society.

43

 

 

 




INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT
FOR THE PERIOD FROM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL
1’93!)
if g s. d. g s. d.
98 To Printing reports, circulars, posters
etc” 222 15 3
1310 ,, Postages, stationery and general
expenses . . 309 8 4
.469 ,, Salaries of sec1etaries and ofﬁce
' staﬁ . . . . . 740 4 6
24 -,, Superannuation allownac . . 48 15 o
.5 ,, Ofﬁce rent . . 86 15 o
45 ,, Publicity and advertising . . 37 18 8 -
,, Film, and lantern slides .. 39 5 4
3 ,, Expenses of Meetings, less receipts I8 8 10
20 ,', Telephone . . 55 o 9
1 25 ,, Expenses of honorary ofﬁcers . . 36 12 11
I3 , , Amount written off furniture and
fittings . . . . . . . . 21 8 8
908 I 616 13 3
Less Charged to Anti- Steel- -Trap
. section for rent and secre-
1/00 tarial services .' . . 130 o o
«5‘08 ' 1,486 13. 3
,, Excess of income > xpendi—
261 ture for the year. ., . . . -—-
1,067.9 £1,486 13 3
YEAR BOOK . . .
193.5
:5? g s. d‘.‘
10 To Stock as at 30th .June, 1935 . . . . . . 9'2 4; 5
93 ,, Printing. . 1 o *o -
‘2 , , Excess of income ov er expendituie for year ——
105 £93 4 5
ANTI - STEEL -TRAP
,5 if 5. cl.
173 To Postages, stationerx and general expenses . . 48 16 11
981 ,, Printing reports, circulars, &'c . . . . 92 1:6 5
—— , , Cost of ‘ ‘Rabbit in Australia” . . . 16 2 8
24‘- ,, Legal expenses re Parliamentary Bill . . ~—
90 ,, Publicity and advertising . . . . 51 o 2
100 ,, Charge £01 rent and secretarial services . . 130 o o f
338 16 2 8
,, Balance, being excess of iricome over expendi-
ture for the period (including special collec-
lion) .. .. .. 2. .. .. 365 111
668 £703 18 1

 




-1.

(excluding the Accounts of Branches.)

1.51 JULY, 1935, TO 3131 jULY, I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION.
193.5 .

g g 5. cl. ,4 sci.
338 By Subscriptions and donations . . 86-2 0 5
Z :1] ,, Broadcast appeal _. . . . —-

Postal appeals . . . . . 957 :13 8
I. .955: Postages, printing
etc. . . . . 204 4 5
Agent’s commission 95 I4 4
~— 299 I8 9
657 14 11
Deduct: Allocated to Anti- Steel-
Trap section .. . I42 12 IO
533 ~ 515 2 r
.y ,, Sale of literature . . . 20) 15 3,
J ,, Interest on deposit 9 8
,, Balance being the ewes 30f expenditure
over income. . . . 8‘8 5 IO
1,069 £1,486 13 3
SECTION.
1935

g g; .5. ill.

1.3 B3. Sales . .. 48 16 5

—— ,, Income from advertisements . 9 o o

952 ,, Stock as at 13t july, 1936 3 2 «o

—— ,, Balance, being deficit 32 6 o
105 £93 4 '5-

SECTION.

£- £ 5. d.
366 B}, Subscriptions and donations . . 515 II M

— ,, Allocation from general section ex postal

appeals . I 2 12 IO
63 ,, Sales of literature (including ‘ ‘Rabbit in
Australia”) ,. . . . . . . . . 36 re 2

— ,, Interest on deposit . ,. . . . . 6 3

—— _,, Stock of ‘ ‘Rabbit in Australia“ . . . . 8 15 o
2‘39 , , Excess of expenditure over income for year . . ~—

668 £703 18 r

 

 

45

 

 




 

SUMMARY OF INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT for the year ended 31st July, 1936.

75' s. d.

Surplus—Anti-Steel- Trap section . . . . . 365 I II
Less: Deﬁcits—General section .. 88 5 10
Year Book section . 32 6 o

 

120 II IO

Net Surplus for Year . . . . . . . . . . 244 10 1"

 

BALANCE snEET as at 31st July, 1936.

1935 1935
£ . ' g s. d. ,5 s. d. ,5 .,[ s. d. ,5 s. d
Income and expenditure account: 263 Cash at bank on current accounts 201 II 7
769 Balance as at June 30th, 1935 793 5 1 I —~ Cash on deposit:
24 Add: Net surplus for the period General section . . 125 4 8
to date as per summary . . 244 IO '1 Anti-Stee1-Trap section . . 300 6 3
793 f; _ “1,037 16 o 1:35 ——-—‘--—-—-—«-« 425 10 11
4: Sundry creditors .. .. 30 I7 I0 5 Cash in Hand: ~—
61 ' . '5 National savings certiﬁcatesm ,
atcost .. .. .. ‘ 375 0 0
1 Loans to branches 2
26 Ofﬁce furniture and fittings 29 0 0
92 Stock of books for sale . . II I7 0
Sundry debtors and amounts paid
17 in advance .. . . . . 23 13 4

 

 

 

908 £1,068 13 10 908

£1,068 13 IO

 

 

 

_ We have prepared the above Balance Sheet, and the accompanying Income and Expenditure Account, from the
books and vouchers of the Somety and certify the same to be in accordance therewith.

2, Norfolk Street, . CHAS. W. ROOKE, LANE AND (30.,
Strand, London, W.C.2. - , ' . Chartered Accountants‘,

13th October, 1936. Hon. Auditors.

 

 




 

 

 

\.

I I x K
“\AA .. \Aa \AA \.¢ A. AA AA AL AL \“ ‘AA AA ‘94 \‘M ‘s ___:¢/ ____AA ___AA ~¢~ ‘“ 4‘ -4 .as a“ ‘4‘ \4 _. __ __ .___. a: lav-WP;

“ﬁr 1 «~13

A 1 ,3 / a .\ ,—\ \ , I; , A A - ”.A M 1

-- AA‘Ag‘AA_- ’m‘“

vv—vv\ vv vv\ vv _vv V vv w\ w VVNWVW"\ w v"\. vv , vv 1 "va *‘vv vv: vV /"\/"\ WV "VWV'WWV vv v 11 ”N w Vrvw; "W \/ vvvv '16 VW\ v7 VNQVWVW

V V

A Banker’s Order will be found on the reverse of this form for use if preferred.

To the Hon. Treasurer
THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY,

42 Torrington Square, London, W.C. I

Jr Cheque ]
I enclose 7 f for g
L Postal Order

9

b - my subscription to the Society for the ensuing twelve monthg
elng ,
__: I a donatlon

N ame _ .....

Address

 

 

 

 

 

lllllllllllllllllllllll

Date

 

Cheques should be made payable to ULAWS.

 




 

 

When completed kindly return to the Hon. Treasurer, University of London
Areimal Welfare Society, 42 Torriugtou Square, London W.C.I.

BANKER’ S ORDER .

 

Bauker’ 3 Name

Bauker’ 5 Address , .......

 

On receipt of this Order please pay to the account of The University
‘of London Animal Welfare Society at BARCLAY’S BANK LTD., 161, Euston

Road, N.W.I, the sum oi. -
and continue to make the same payment annually on the date of this Order until

further notice.

 

Sigua ture

 

 

Address

 

Date

A subscription or donation form will be found on the reverse for use if preferred

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

WE’RE T ERRIBLY SORRY,
BUT WE SIMPLY HAVE
To Do THIS.

 




 

This report is circulated for com—

parison with the current report, as

being of considerable historical
interest.

 

 

 

_ University of London Animal Welfare Society.

 

REPRINT OF THE

THIRD ANNUAL REPORT
YEAR ENDING AUGUST 3Ist, 1929.

 

The Society has continued during the year to prosecute, as far as possible, the aims which it has laid
down. These are to promote, by educational and other methods, interest in the welfare of animals and the
elimination of cruelty at home and abroad; to enlist on behalf of animals the inﬂuence of university men and
women, and particularly of actual and prospective teachers; to disseminate knowledge of the needs of animals
and of animal management ; and to initiate a movement which shall extend to continental and other universities.

- Great difﬁculties have been experienced from the fact that the routine work has had to be carried out
by honorary ofﬁcers whose time is subject to very heavy claims in other directions. It is desirable that the
part-time services of. a paid secretary should be obtained; but for this purpose, as well as that of a more extended
programme of publications, it would be necessary to quadruple the number of those very generous supporters
who have contributed, to the Society’s funds. The Society will, however, achieve its objects in due course
in spite «of the difﬁculties which it still has to face.

Ir’i‘T-NOVember, 1928 , the Council arranged, under the auspices of the University of London Union Society,
for af'lec'ture by Prof. J. Arthur Thomson, who chose as his subject, “Trustees for a Kingdom.” The lecture
dealt with man’s obligations towards the animal kingdom. The Councﬂ desires to record its hearty thanks
for the cor-operation of the Union and for the excellent report published in New T 70y.

At the Exhibition held at University College, in connection with the Educational Conference, from
December 3Ist till January 4th, the Society exhibited literature and a rabbit—trap, and signatures to the
rabbit-trap petition were obtained.

Prof. Hobday and Capt. Hume continued to serve as Chairman and Hon. Secretary, respectively, of the
Committee for adjudicating upon the merits of the Weinberg Pen, an apparatus for use in the casting of animals
for slaughter by the Jewish. method. Dr. Daiches represents the Board of Deputies of British Jews on this
committee. Very great difﬁculties have been experienced in obtaining a satisfactory trial, but these have
been now overcome.

The branch of the Society at Wye Agricultural College was able to begin the experiment of village lectures
on the treatment of animals with a lecture by Mr. Line, at the Broughton and Eastwell Women’s Institute,
and a further lecture by Mr. I. B. Prowse was subsequently delivered. This Branch also held, for two days
in November, a highly successful biological exhibition in support of the Society’s funds. This aroused a good
deal of local interest. Mr. Line has been obliged to resign the Hon. Secretaryship of this branch and the Council
desires to record its gratitude for his energetic and able work. He has been succeeded by Mr. F. A. Pearson.

'As an experiment , a membership subscription of Is. was introuduced to take effect in the ensuing session,
and steps were taken for organising branches in certain other colleges. Very satisfactory results were obtained
by Miss Gilbert and her helpers at Westﬁeld College, where 80 members were enlisted. A meeting was held
there in January, an address on Fur—trapping being delivered by Mrs. Louise Rourke, of Canada. At the end
of the session a group of students at Bedford College decided to devote special attention to the condition of
animals inFrance and other continental countries. In response to a letter issued by this group to the press,
substantial donations have been received for the veterinary clinic at Nimes. Steps were taken for the forma-
tion of branches in other colleges also.

 




. In April, Sir William Beach Thomas gave an address on the subject of Trapping to a meeting arranged
by the Soc1ety at the Congress of the National Union of Students held at Aberystwyth, the Chair being taken by

General Mowat. Considerable interest was aroused, and the Society’s cordial thanks are due to the N .U.S.
for their continued co-operation.

Mr. Kenneth Bird (‘ ‘F ougasse”) , who recently joined the Council, has kindly designed a poster for the

Society. This will be of great value in advertising a number of meetings which are being arranged for the
ensuing session.

Mr. Donald Macalister is setting on foot an enquriy into the persecution of wild life, beginning with the

badger and otter as typical of persecuted mammals. He will welcome ﬁrst-hand information from any reader
of this report.

The Society has also undertaken to devote special attention to the subject of trapping.

Towards the end of the Session a circular setting forth the need for the co-operation‘ of university men
and women in “zoophile” activities was sent to members of the staff and all internal students whosfé names
appeared in the University Calendar as belonging to a number of the more important colleges of the university.
It is difﬁcult to gauge the amount of interest aroused, but the circular brought some valuable new supporters
and the experience gained will be useful in future efforts of the same kind.

 

SUBSCRIPTIONS AND DONATIONS, OCTOBER Ist, 1928, TO AUGUST 3Ist, 1929.
I s. d.

N

m
0‘

00000000000.

Anonymous, per Dr.
Daiches
Barringer, Mrs. Hill, Prof. T. G.

- Bird, Kenneth, Esq. . Hobday, Prof. F. T. G. 1
Brown, R. C., Esq. ..... Holloway, College Royal I
Clive, Mrs. Hume, Capt. C. W. ..... I
Cutting, E. M., Esq Knight, Miss E. M. .....
Duffy, Mrs. Laing, Miss E. F.
Dumphreys, A., Esq. Lewis, Dr. E. C. I
Fitzgerald, E. J ., Esq. I MacAlister, D. A. , Esq. I
Gilbert, L. E, Esq ...... ‘ Millard, Dr. A. S.

Owen, D., Esq.

Paul, Mrs.

Ronald, Mrs......
Salisbury, Prof. E. J.
Ward, Miss

Westﬁeld College
\Vilkin, Mrs. C. S.
Wye Agricultural Coll.
Sums less than 25. 6d.

 

 

 

HHHmmHHHmMH.

INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT, OCTOBER Ist, 1928, TO AUGUST 3Ist, 1929.
VRECEIPTS. .5 s. d. PAYMENTS. £ 5. (1.

Income from subscriptions and don— Printing reports, note paper, circulars
ations to end or August, 1929 ..... 43 IO 6 &c. ‘

Brought forward from previous year ..... 14 II 2% Printing and postage of 7,410 propa—
ganda circulars .....

Typing of Minutes and postage

Speaker’s expenses in connection with
N.U.S. meeting .....

Hire of rooms .....

Petty Cash

 

Cash in hand to balance

mug—.m -M... - _

£58 I 8%

 

I have audited the above account of receipts and payments and certify the same to be correct
R. W. CHAMBERS.

 




