DRAG—HUNTING :

By HENRY B. AMOS.

DRAG-HUNTING, we may say at the outset, for the beneﬁt of the
uninitiated, is hunting to a scent made by dragging a bag con-
taining aniseed or other odorous substance along the ground.

The drag hunt is not by any means a novel idea. It has long
been recognised amongst sporting people, and some hunts have
been in the habit of employing it in Hants, Cambridge, Berks,
Oxford and Surrey. This seems to imply that it has been held
to have certain advantages over the more cruel method of hunting,
and that there can be no particular reason why our sporting men
should not be required to adopt it in preference to the less justiﬁable
practice now emplOyed.

The adoption of the Drag would sweep away at once all the
, abominations Which make these blood sports so objectionable to
thinking people, i.e. the long-drawn-out terror of the animal hunted;
the end, when the creature with lolling tongue and drooping head,
is “ dead-beat ” and worried to death by the dogs ; and the cruelty
to the Victim who has sought sanctuary in a burrow after a long
and hard run, and is dug out and thrown to the dogs.

The advantages of the drag may be summarised thus : It enables
the hunter .to choose his own run ; he can make it long or short,
over high ground or low, across ploughed ﬁeld or pasture, through
wood or scrub or brake, and with fences, ditches, hedges and any
other obstacle thrown in as and when he pleases.

It would reduce to a minimum the long role of accidents, alike
to humans, hounds and horses, caused by barbed wire and other
entanglements.

It would lessen the costs to be paid for damage done in breaking
down gates and fences and riding over seedland and crops.

It would do away altogether with the Poultry Fundswusually
a heavy item, running into hundreds of pounds annually in some
Hunts—~which is often a source of much irritation and discord
between the Hunt and the poultry-keepers whose roosts have been .
raided. ‘

It would obviate riding over forbidden paths and on main roads
and railways ; through private grounds and gardens or into villages
and towns for which the hunted animals so often make in search
of shelter. '

It would, as indicated above, put an end to the discreditable
practice of “ digging—out.”

There would be no more checks or wandering from cover,to

cover in quest of a scent, and there would never be need for either
another blank or “ bad ” day.

Thus one can see hunting being elevated into manly and honour-
able sport, for it would still combine all the exhilaration of a
rattling gallop across the moor or heath to the music of a “ Ruby

))

and Ringwood, Bellman and True echoing through the glen.
It would still provide gates and ditches and brooks in plenty to
be negotiated, and as many hard “ point—to—points ” as desired.

 




We know, of course, that, at ﬁrst, those who had inherited and
had cultivated the primitive hunting instinct would vote the drag
stale and ﬂat. We know, too, that there would be no “ blooding ”
of hounds—no! nor of children either. The latter practice is one
of the most savage relics of barbarism still existing in any land.
Neither would any fair young miss or gallant young scion get a
brush or a mask to “ adorn ” the hall of their future home, or a pad
to help to make an inkstand for the library table.

The law of the jungle, however, cannot go on for ever along with
the evolution of a healthy, humane civilisation. Hunting is a
menace to such, and is long overdue to be superseded by the spirit
which enjoins us .

' ‘ “ Never to blend our pleasure or our pride

with sorrow of the meanest thing that feels.”

In, this connection the spectacle of ﬁfty to a hundred boys at
Eton—that one-time nursery of the rulers of the country—
chasing a terriﬁed hare, with twenty to thirty dogs, is a sight surely
not easy to match for Sheer callousness and stupidity.

We appeal to those who now follow the chase to come into line
with the more enlightened opinion of the day, and to discard the live
animal for the drag. .In doing this they would have the satisfaction
of knowing, not only that they are aligning themselves with the
humane spirit'of the day, but that they are doing something to
act up to that excellent mot‘to~~-“ Noble‘sse oblige ”~—which the
gloriﬁcation of blood—sports has done so much to discredit.

Be that; as it may, a different conception of the responsibility
of Education, Reﬁnement and Culture, to their less fortunate fellow-
creatures is abroad, and it is becoming increasingly realised that
in proportion as we exploit for selfish and debasing ends any
non—human creatures, it becomes easier to exploit and debase
our fellow~men. Thus, the indulgence in blood—sports is coming
to be considered an anti-social act, and, as such, it is time that it
should be relegated to the limbo of the barbaric past.

“ NEW OCCASIONS TEACH NEw DUTIES.”

N.B.—-—-Humanitarians would greatly help the work of the League
by notifying the Secretary of anyone interested, SO that leaﬂets may
be sent to them ; by purchasing and distributing our leaﬂets; by
organising‘ a Group of those interested in their district, and by
sending Press cuttings (with name and date of paper) of cruel
sporting incidents, so that these may be followed up promptly.

DONATIONS in aid of the work are needed and will be warmly
welcomed. Cheques and money orders should be made payable to
Mr. Ernest Bell, Treasurer.

Price Ed. each, 50 for I/— post free.

LEAGUE FOR PROl-HBTTTON OF CRUEL SPORTS,
YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET, LONDON, W.C.2

SID/7‘25 Tile But/rip]: Printing War/:5, Gale Street, Kingsway, W.C.z

 




