x w ,
:xxxxxxxxxxx 22 E. 17th ﬁt.

XXXXXXXXK
ORegmn 5~1069

6013,0168!“ 1? a 1957

Medallic ﬁrtg 30.
325 Faat 35th ﬁt.
ﬂew York ﬁiﬁy

Gentleman:

(

$1ea$8 engrave thia ﬁlbert ﬁchwaitzgr
Eviecﬁal 0f the Afar‘ﬁimal ’"ielfare Ir‘zaatitmte Mliijrh 3.8
being braught to you with thig lettgr with the
follawing:
ZRRSL W.TKEARNEE’
1957
It iﬁ'undarstooé that you will aelivar

the engraveﬁ medal to the abave aﬁﬁreas before

five o'clock Qctober 23rd.

Very truly year-9;,

Chriatine ﬁﬁevens, ?resi§ent

 




Su%ggsﬁ@d press release Sent lQ/ZS/S? to Mark Greenberg

The 1957 Albert Schmitwr madal of 15m Animal Welfare habitats, awarded
annually in racognitimn af an outatanding can¢ributian ta ﬁha walfare of
laboratory 3nimala, baa baan praaented to Paul w; Kearnay, nawapapenman,
frealance-writer and authar af the article ”Th3 Case for Humana'Viviaection”

appearing in thg warrant iaaua of Goranetiﬁagazﬁne.

The Animal'welfama Instituta, which created the Alberﬁ Schwaitzar medal in
195% at whieh ﬁima a gold replica was prasented be Dr. Schweitzer,'worka
far ﬁhe walfkre, banana treatment, correct hausing cf laboratory animals; it

oppeees nanaeassary and crual exparimantatian, as well as tha grewing tendenqy ‘

taward~paimfn1 and ganselaas axperimenta canducted on living animals by'aehool

chilamm' ‘
In making the preaentatian t0 Hr. Kearney, at a ceremmmy October 2hth, Christine
mamas, Pmsmmt of the Animal Ruram Institute, statezi:

 




r at . w
‘Br.-$¢huaitwar baa aharactarixaa animaiwaws$aeﬁivw wmrk aa a batﬁla, aad a twaar

vnxewnt wasrnmvar maﬁa; .If thmra wwra nw;e fxghtara lika ﬁaul Kaawnay laaxfag
the attaak-againat @wualty, ﬁha warat abuaas ta waian mﬁiliana af ﬁﬁiMﬁlﬁ @rw may
jgetmi Wm a: 32m muwm.

In ”?h¢ ﬂaaa farxﬁaa ta ﬁiviﬁacﬁiaa” publi$had ﬁn tha ﬂwvambﬁr iswaa af ﬁaranat
magaginag ﬁwm K§arnay haw aﬁruek a agatxpaamrful hlaw an the battla againat anti“
banana farcas. Ha hag priekaé yea §ubh1a af amaylaﬂanﬁ adnlatiﬁn fer t&$ ww»?!
kﬁnéef axpérimantatian,tha'*' d in ﬁsiﬂhaﬁllﬁﬁﬁﬁdﬁﬁg a$1£iahaﬁaa amﬁiign@raneﬁ
ml: alga jﬁammatm mm guim cm wmntiﬁs mwamh 33$ wima, ~
ﬁamw¢&¢gﬁﬁ Amariaana have blindly turn$d aaiantiiia raa$arch iatm a ﬁatiah wiﬁh
the result that thara 15 akiay firﬁually“na itmi§atian~an Whaﬁ any ﬁamgﬁimk_ar
Barry'with a kitahan knifa aan de ta an animal we lama aa hﬁ wrgpa iﬁ in ﬁhﬁ
protaativa $193k af aaiantifia raaaareh.“ ’$heaa ara atrang wﬁrﬂa, but thay ara,
unfartunatély, true. Mk» Eﬁarnay3$ grﬁiala is bringing ﬁha faatﬁ ta t swaanda cf
paapla whaihava navar had any apparsunity'af{haarmng gnaw/hafgrav fhia arﬁicla
may wéli mark tha turning of the ﬁiﬁa er tﬁia blimé wantimanﬁ and anhatiﬁuta inatmaa
reouamitian mf ﬁha righ$ af labsratary animal; ta ﬁaggat trgaﬁmwﬁg wa$ thair maﬁa

far pvatectian.

Ehu Kéarnay’a aem&athiaa ara nab ﬁenfinad ta labarataay animalsﬁ ﬁe baa travalleé
ta ﬁhshingtaa ta tastify at kwth ﬁuuaa and Sanata ﬁaaringa aa.tha hamaﬁa alaaghter
' bills, and bamamaa ef his graat gift 9f anvraaaian xx; aélia knawﬁadga cf tha amhjaet,

big twatimmny hag Egan mare wiﬂsly quaﬁaé ﬁhan that af any'aﬁhﬁr‘uapawrtar @f thin

urgantly‘naedaﬁ.1agi$1aﬁiaa.

in rneagni%i¢a mi hi3 aaap sincarity, hia aaund.3ugawwxﬁ, and,hia'brilliantAtalamt
an a writar £4ﬁhﬁing agaimat cruelty ta ﬂlfﬁﬁi$3 aha third 3ahau1taar Agarﬁ a? aha
animal‘Walfare institute iaqpraawntaa ts Pym; Kharuqy.~

Oc£.2h,l957

 




 

Animal‘welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New York

FOR IMMEDIATE RELHLSE ALBERT SCIiJ’EITZER IIIEDAL
_"" RUARDED TO AUTHOR PAUL
KEMINEY BY ANII‘IAL "133L-
FARE INSTITUTE

 

NEW YORK - The 1957 Albert Schweitzer medal of the Animal "felfare In-
stitute, awarded annually in recognition of an outstanding contribution to the
welfare of laboratory animals, has been presented to Paul H. Kearney, neWSpaperb
man and freelance writer for his article "The Case For Humane Vivisection" ap—
pearing in the current issue of Coronet magazine.

The Animal belfare Institute created the Albert Schweitzer medal in
195h at which time a gold replica was presented to Er. Schweitzer. The Insti-
tute works for the welfare, humane treatment and correct housing of laboratony
animals. It Opposes unnecessary and cruel experimentation, as well as the
growing tendenqy toward painful and senseless eXperiments conducted on living
animals by school children.

In his Coronet article, Kearney reveals some of the shocking abuses

and haphazard experimentation conducted in the field of animal research. He

contends that there is today, virtually no limitation on what anyone with a

kitchen knife can do to an animal as long as he wraps it in the protective
cloak of scientific research. Kearney further deplores unrestrained animal
eXperimentation in high schools, and the approval of fatal feeding tests on

living animals for students in the primary grades.

(more)

 




 

 

In making the presentation to Mr. Kearney, Christine Stevens, Presi-

dent of the Animal Telfare Institute stated that " 'The Case For Humane Vivi—

section‘ published in the new issue of Coronet is a most powerful blow in the

battle against anti-humane forces. Mr. Kearney has pricked the bubble of com-
placent adulation for the wrong kind of experimentation,she says,"and has re-
vealed the type of experimentation in which callousness, selfishness and ignor—

ance seek false justification under the guise of scientific research."

 




Animal‘welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New Yerk 3, New York

FOR IM‘IEDIATE RELEASE ALBERT SC HYJ’EITZER MEDAL
AWARDED T0 AUTHOR PAUL
KEARNEY BY ANIMAL'WEL—
FARE INSTITUTE

 

NEW YORK - The 1957 Albert Schweitzer medal of the Animal‘Uelfare Ina
stitute, awarded annually in recognition of an outstanding contribution to the
welfare of laboratory animals, has been presented to Paul'W. Kearney, neWSpaper-
man and freelance writer for his article "The Case For Humane Vivisection" ap-
pearing in the current issue of Coronet magazine.

The Animal'ﬁelfare Institute created the Albert Schweitzer medal in
195h at which time a gold replica was presented to Dr. Schweitzer; The Insti-
tute works fer the welfare, hmmane treatment and correct housing of laboratory
animals. It Opposes unnecessary and cruel experimentation, as well as the
growing tendeney toward painful and senseless experiments conducted on living

animals by school children.

In his Coronet article, Kearney reveals some of the shocking abuses

and haphazard experimentation conducted in the field of animal research. He
contends that there is today, virtually no limitation on what anyone with a
kitchen.knife can do to an animal as long as he wraps it in the protective
cloak of scientific research. Kearney further deplores unrestrained animal
experimentation in high schoolS, and the approval of fatal feeding tests on

living animals fer students in the primary grades.

 




In.making the presentation to Hr. Kearney, Christine Stevens, Presi-

dent of the Animal‘ﬁelfare Institute stated that " 'The Case For HUmane Vivi-

section‘ published in the new issue of Coronet is a most powerful blow in the

battle against anti-humane forces. Mr. Kearney has pricked the bubble of comp
placent adulation for the wrong kind of experimentation,she says,"and has re-
vealed the type of experimentation in which callousness, selfishness and ignoru

ance seek false justification under the guise of scientific research."

 




Senator" Tot "Get
Humane Award

NEW YORK -— Sen. Hubert
H, Humphrey, sponsor of the
first humane slaughter bill in
Congress and leader of the _
successful fight for its passage
last July, will be awarded the
. Albert Schweitzer Medal of the

Animal Welfare Institute here
MOnday. The presentation will
be made at the annual meeting
of the Institute at the home of
its president, Mrs. Roger L”
Stevens.

 




 

HUMPHREY HONORED

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey.
received the annual Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute yesterday.

The bronze medal went to
the Minnesota Democrat for his
successful fight for the passage
of a bill to make the slaughter
of livestock more humane. The
bill was signed by President:
Eisenhower in August.

Mrs. Christine Stevens, found“

“1- and president of the insti-i
.ufte, presented the medal. at
he annual meeting of the insti-
ute in her home at 50 East
seventy—seventh Street. One
iundred persons attended.

Mrs. Stevens was a leaderin

he fight for the new law.

The institute, a national 0r-
ganization, has headquarters at
22 East Seventeenth Street. It
'is devoted to fighting cruelty
ito animals. The medal was
named for the noted medical
nussmnary.

 

 

 




NEW YORK, N.Y.

WORLD-TELEGRAM & SUN
0. 454 137 s. 190,726

'1' 3-,; 10;}
gg} 5'5] hint»;

..---.. ----------- l i .
%%onar§0r%munpniey
1 .{Son Hufm‘t H. Humphrey

in)” Minn.) is To receive the
25.111913! Welfare Institute’s
Albert Scl'nvcitxcr Medal for
his sponsorship of the first-.5
VWQ -" hwbln eve-r in
troduced m Cc:;-ngress. It “7111
be presented at the insti‘i‘ute's
annual moeiiug at 3:30 pm.
Monday, at 50 E. 77th St.

 

 




  

ESTABLISHED 1888

  
  
 

BArclay 7-537!

PRESS CLIPPING BUREAU
I65 Church Street - New York

ALMA, WIS.
JOURNAL
Circ. W. [.525

  
    
 

 

      
  
   

 
 
 
   
  

(7 r‘ T ; i; £26.?fw1fmg
gjt‘b’ , 3 h: \2' "$3733

x J 7..

 

  

MRS. STEVENS GIVES
HUMPHREY MEDAL

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey,
sponsor of the first. humane
slaughter bill in Congress and
leader of the successful fight for
i its passage last July, was awarded
the Albert Schweitzer Medal of
the Animal Welfare Institute at
New York October 13. The pres-
entation was made at the annual
meeting of the Institute at the
home of its president, Mrs. Roger
L. Stevens.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is
awarded annually by the Institute
to the person who has done most
during the year to advance "the
cause of animal welfare.

    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   




FRANKLIN, IND.
STAR
D, 4,963

OCT 1 0 2958

 

 

. l

 

' SEN. HUMPHREY

NEW YORK—Senator Hubert H.
Humphrey, sponsor of the first
humane slaughter bill in Congress
and leader of the successful fight
for its passage last July, will be ‘
awarded the Albert Schweitzer
Medal of the Animal Welfare In-
stitute here on October 13.

The presentation will be made .
at the annual meeting of the In-
stitute at the home of its presi-
dent, Mrs. Robert L. Stevens, next
Monday. ,

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is
awarded annually by the Institute
to the person who has done most ,
during the year to advance the
cause of animal welfare. _

 

 




ESTABLISHED l888
BArclay 7-5371 '

PRESS CLIPPING BUREAU
|65 Church Street - New York

BROOKLYN, N. Y.
Record & Advertiser
Circ. w. 10.200

 

---in Show Business?

This column appears in the Kings County
Chronicle, Record and Advertiser, Adver-
tiser-Digest, Canarsie Courier, City Line
Post, Knickerbocker News and Queens
County Post. -

a
WIM.MM/WN M A WAA N,

1% so?

Attended the primate luncheon of the N. Y. Kiwanis and Rotary
Clubs in which Arthur {iodfrey made his first N. Y. appearance in
several years. Godfrey talked of the real meaning of air pain-er.
Later, we were surprised to hear Arthur conﬁde to us that be per.»
sonally engages a man in ‘e‘v'ashington to keep him up-toudnie and
informed of all news and events concerning the Capitol.

Stars continue to add zest to the new “Lucille Ballxllesi Arno}:
Show," The Feb. 3rd hour-long tele-ﬁlmcast has Betty ilroble and
Harry James as guests. . .iiett:.”s face has been notice’blg inissinzg
from the. Hollywood films these past few years. Gamble set on n-
time record of 12 years straight in the list of 10 top hm; oiiice sh...
. . .Knovdng lilarlon Brando’s dispsition, it’s easy to under-slant
recent. marriage going asunder. . from Regent ".i’iiitlox'.' (To “3"

.1.,

funny thing about ideas. They won’t work unless you do'”

My Wife- Wns much amused with
a young fellow who sat alongside
us at the Men’s l’itkin. During
the showing of “The Long Haul,”
he swooned continuously over the
glamourous Diana Dore, then
sighed. over Kim Novel; and Rita
Hayworth, (n'iuch to he chagrin
of his date) in coming attractions

 

ﬁ

of “Pol Joey."
was feeling pretty miserable by

The young miss

the time, “The Story of Esther
Coste lo,” came on, and the tens--
or pointed out. he went for Joan
Crawford in a big way. Later in
the iilm, however, new Italian
actor, Ross'ano Brazzi appeared
and his superb good looks and

 

5‘75“” 5“" 3 ' ‘*~'~ charm emonated magniﬁcently
~7" 1 .. ' r " u - 9 c
we way 3 beautaju bena ,_, * ;~ ,A‘ ,

Rowlands (the critics raved. young miss let It be km)“

about her in “Middle of the uncertain terms that he
7- 3" _ 3’ .é , . . ., ‘ 7-

Night ) now Gaines to ""01 5’3 ‘doll’! To which, said 3

as Jose Ferrer s co-star m “ g ‘

Mi-G-Z‘VI’S “Bay the 13100:)...” in 10W: remarked, He 1W4:

which she plays the ideal wife. phoney to me!” Meowi

: 1

Information Report From the Animal Welfare Institute:

PAUL W. KEARNEY RECEIVES SCHWEITZER A“;

The third Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Vic-mire
stitute was awarded to Paul W. Kearney in recognition of his pow»-
erful contribution to the advancement of. laboratory animal welfare
as author of “The Case for Humane Vivisection” published in Cor-
onet Magazine for November. His article was the ﬁrst on this sub-
ject ever to appear in a national magazine. In it Mr. Kearney made i '
clear the yg’ev need for the reform, as distinct from the abolitlon,
of animal experimentation as currently practiced. He cited many
examples of unnecessary animal suffering in laboratories. While ‘
giving due credit to the results obtained from some animal experi-
ments, he wrote, “One is entitled to question the necessity for 21 _~
Boston laboratory, while studying the causes of human deaths by
ﬁre—to burn live pigs to death in gasoline ﬂames. And to wonder if
the researchers would have learned any less if the animals had been
anesthetized.”

31;-
_.

A series of descriptions of laboratories in leading scientiﬁc in-
stitutions, where animals were conﬁned to cramped, wet, ﬁlthy quar-
ters, suffering from disease and lack of care, was included in the
article, as were reports on painful experiments carried out for purely
commercial purposes and on some of the cruel animal experiments .
which many children have recently been encouraged to carry out
in school or at home. “Such outlandish practices,” Mr. Kearney com-
mented, “simply emphasize the extent to which we Americans have
blindly turned ‘scientiﬁc research’ into a fetish, with the result that
there is today virtually no limitation on what any Tom, Dick or
Harry with a kitchen knife can do to an animal so long as he wraps
it inpthe protective cloak of ‘scientiﬁc research’.”

After giving a brief outline of the Cruelty to Animals Act, which
for the past eighty years has regulated animal-experimentation in
Great Britain to prevent abuse of the privilege of using animals, the
author cited the failure of voluntary policing in this country. In con-
cluding, he stated that lie-offered no ready-made solution but wished
both scientists and the public at large to recognize “the very real
and urgent issue of Humanity versus Inhumanity in the use of ani-
mals for experimental purposes. Such recognition,” he continued,
“must come before any rational corrective measures can be consider-
ed. And in the absence of that recognition, no such measures have: ‘,
been proposed by either the numerous Anti-Vivisection Societies, org

by their opposite number, the National Society for Medical Reseanrig‘f

- m... 1
‘1 - .«

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New York

May 21, 1959

Dear Members and Friends,

The annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute
will be held earlier than usual this year so that the
- Hon. W. R. Poage, Schweitzer Medallist for 1959, will
be able to be present,

Without Representative Poage's steadfast devotion

to the prevention of cruelty, his thorough study, inspection
of slaughterhouses, conduct of hearings, meetings with
Opponents of the legislation, redrafting of the bill on a new
principle, obtaining the almost unanimous endorsement

of the House Agriculture Committee and finally his heroic
fight for it, the United States would not now have federal
humane slaughter legislation,

On June 6, 1959 at 3:00 P.M., members and friends of
the Animal Welfare Institute will meet to honor him and
hear him speak. You are most cordially invited to come
and to bring a friend if you wish. The meeting will be
held at 50 East 77th Street, Apartment 5A. Tea will be
served following the ceremony.

Sinc e rely,

Christine Stevens ,
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New York

May 21, 1959

Dear Members and Friends,

The annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute
will be held earlier than usual this year so that the
Hon. W. R. Poage, Schweitzer Medallist for 1959, will
be able to be present.

Without Representative Poage's steadfast devotion
to the prevention of cruelty, his thorough study, inspection
of slaughterhouses, conduct of hearings, meetings with
opponents of the legislation, redrafting of the bill on a new
principle, obtaining the almost unanimous endorsement
of the House Agriculture Committee and finally his heroic
fight for it, the United States would not now have federal
humane slaughter legislation.

On June 6, 1959 at 3:00 P.M., members and friends of
the Animal Welfare Institute will meet to honor him and
hear him speak. You are most cordially invited to come
and to bring a friend if you wish. The meeting will be
held at 50 East 77th Street, Apartment 5A, Tea will be
served following the ceremony.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens ,
President

 




3 22223332" 193 323%? 3

22222222222212 2:292: Fmpmzy
32;? 2’2 221:: ‘ 23.522222 2222:2222; '
22222 $222222: 3.7 3 222. 32”. 22222222 22:23,. W222

212222222 £2223 £ 22222222:

3 22222222??? 2222? 2:222? 2223.22222223222 ' 22222222222212“ 222222 22:23. 2:212"
3:222: 22.222222 2‘22?“ 322" 22222222222122.2222 22 :21 2222222222 2222M
2222122 2:221:- 22: ”22121232222 ‘ ' ’

2 22222222 22222”? 22222“
Jig“
3 1929.2“
22222:; 222.23 2222222 22.22 “2222 222 2222222222 22:2 2.2222222 82223

2223221222 2235:222r2223222‘2222 12:2 1.2 222 2222;223:222 22:: 22222222222222 2222;222:222.
2222222213 222222222 55222: 2:23 22:22 1222222 172222 32.222222, 222322222 23234233.

£'

:22: “22:22:13: 2222222223,

2322112 22222222
2* 32222122122222 22222227222233?

 




It is a great honor to present the fifth annual Schweitzer Medal of the

Animal Welfare Institute to Congressman Poage. No one has ever done more to

deserve a humane award. During the entire course of the struggle for the humane

slaughter law, Mr. Poage never made an error. His actions from first to last
might serve as a model of what a humane and honorable man should do. I would
like to review them briefly. After Congresswoman Griffiths introduced her humane
slaughter bill in the House in 1956, many letters in support of it reaChed members
of the Agriculture Committee of which.Hr. Poage is vice-chairman. In the Senate,
Senator Humphrey's good bill had been dismembered and passed as a "study“ bill.
The House Agriculture Committee very properly failed to act upon it, and thus the
first in a long line of study bills died with the ending of the 8hth Congress.

Meanwhile, however, Hr. Poage accompanied by the members of his sub-committee
on Livestock and Feed Grains took time during the Congressional Recess to inspect
slaughterhouses to see for themselves both humans and inhumane methods being used
in every day practice. Congressman Cooley, Chairman of the House Agriculture
Committee visited some of the plants with the group.

At the beginning of the 85th.Congress, seven humane Slaughter bills were
introduced in the House, and.Mr. Poage held hearings on them in April. He listened
with patience and courtesy to the opponents and made a real effort to reconcile
their objections during personal interviews and to find'ways of meeting criticism.
Then he introduced a new bill eliminating the criminal penalty which had received
such fierce opposition. This is the bill which is now the law. It is based on the
unassailable right of the Federal Government to set standardsfor its contracts, and
as you.know, the humane slaughter law requires that all packers who wish to contract
'with the government must use humane methods in all their pants.

Hr. Poage overcame opposition within the Agriculture Committee of which he is
vice—chairman, and his bill was reported out with a vote of 25 to 3.0n the floor of
the House he led a valiant fight and won a voice vote in favor of the bill. Then
began the struggle in the Senate where Senator Humphrey amended his bill to be
identical with Mr. Poage's and Where he fought a fierce battle for it on the Senate

floor. The amendments which the opposition forced into the bill might have taken it

 




-2-

to a Conference from'Which it would not have emerged before Congress adjourned,
but as usual, Hr. Poage combined fairness, judgment, and determination to obtain

the concurrence of the House of Representatives to the Senate amendments—~and

the bill was passed protecting the vast majority of animals slaughtered.

Mr. Poage can tell you much more about it and I hope he willrto. jks
cattleman who has prevented cruelty to more livestock at one stroke than
has ever been done before in the history of the world, the Schweitzer Medal

for 19599

 




4 ” WE 9 {/ III WHICH
NEED A ~ 4 “II/ILL INCLUDE-
BOUNDLESS THE /.\I\H/\/\ALS;
ET'r-HCS , ~ ALSO”

I

GUSTAV
EQHLAIII)
.3 c.

 




 




Aﬁij \\\
.ﬂRE mmrur:
LAWARD F O 4‘

 




 




 




 




. w.

‘v‘u‘

S a. "Ii.- ,5.)

.. 55.2.3: 3!:

‘é “I151! éyi‘
T ; _ . ,..,

........... . .p.. .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.5151325; ya. a :




 
  
   

 

 

 

 
 

    

. .ur ,-

     
    
   

‘—r- - v \‘F'v-‘Vv— W , - ‘ , V. L I ‘ ' V7 ' 77 I .V L ' - . n ' .‘ ' ‘ ifev'fw
7,1“- ' * . ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ '- ‘ H ’ ' ' ' ' ' t ““ q 2-,) 4'
"7—7-1.‘1~7‘ “-7—:er /~ ‘A‘ ~ ‘ '_ , , . ., _ \ _ (_ . ~ _ 5., , . n. J ‘ ,, ’ H I V l ' ‘. I ' ' ‘ ~ ~ — '
:__-..... «-v*-‘ ~— ‘ .-~‘../ , . ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
    
   
   
   
   
 
  

, “Africa- is embarked on great enterprises, eserving of}
the‘ full exercise of your best minds and most dedicate, .
*‘ $1?th ’3, G. ‘Mennen Williams told delegates to the third 5
annual session of the United Nations Economic Commission '
er‘Africa.’ ., The American Assistant Secretary of State for
African; A airs was speaking in, Addis Ababa at a dinner
given by the U.S. Ambassador to EthiOpia. ' .

The. former governor of the state of Michigan in North
Central US. is currently touring Africa, stopping to Visit 14
countries-as part of a fact-ﬁnding miSsion. jWhile he has met
with the Various leaders of Africa, his Wife has been visiting
schools; hospitals, orphanages and other similar Social insti-
tutionsifon the continent. ‘ , ' '

In ganganyika, Chief Minister Julius K. Nyerere Saw the
‘5‘ most useful ” result of the current get—acquainted.’ tour by

‘ the Assistant Secretary as an increased awareness 'of the
prOhlems of Africa. “ Such visits could lead to a better under—
standing ”, he said.
ile visiting the Congo, Williams reafﬁrmed America’s
belief, that the UN. was the instrument through which the
nation ,of the world should cooperate to achieve asolution to
the crisis there. “The basic principle of US. policy in Africa”,
he said is “impartial. concern for the welfare of all the
chin Africa and a genuine concern that the peonle of

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 
 
   
    
   
 
 
     

  
    

ABOVE 4—Assistant Secretary of State for'
African Affairs and Mrs. G. Mennen

       
     

     

w w

      
    
   
 
  

 

' .
L-’ . ’
)

   
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
    

     
     
 

       
   
   
        
    
  
 
   
    
    
 

  

Williams emplane for a 14 country fact- '9’ ‘ i anvil}. be able to make their contributions to global '_ ABOVE .__.. After visiting Marian (35115“, _

  

ﬁnding tour of Africa. . A " . M or o g or 0,. Tanganyika, c‘Mr. .Williams “4

 

   

    

 
 
 
 

  
 

   

   
 

 
 
 
  
 

    
  

    

 
    

    

        

LEFT ' -— Mrs. ,Williams Visits childre ; y , whohad. visited Ghana and Liberia in an' earlier receives. ‘3 gift it‘roma students: - ‘ ‘7 - ,
ward oi'lifrincess, Margaret Hospital ”in: g». r .. .7. "new :8" . .. . ga ‘ diam; n 8 ~ '.'. 4 . * LEFT~§seretary 9"} State
ﬁst the Jim , 354" ‘ . . , , , _ . _ . A . o . g _ 7 7. ,. _. A .. . , .- _. o - Le ~ . f " + . a.

3.3
,-,.
Mr“;

’K
v {a .r'."-
. ._ .s My.“
W1“. -

i “ion," ﬁll-stain , fill-rains

      
  
 
 
 
   
   
   

 
    
  
 
   
  
  
    
    
    
  
 

an as his chief aide on African BELOW -'-- With fermer -'U.‘S. 'basehall star . .
Jackie Robinson, left, Williams talks with;

Kenya’s Tom MbOya during an "African

via'u‘s trip "to Ghana _

:73 TTOM RIGHT --- The new Assistant
’ecretary chats with African envoys follow-
;' ing his swearing-in ceremony.

   
   
  
    
    
   
  
  

    

     
 

     

- dition to examining the economic and political con- “

     

  
 
 

J RIGHT —— Tanganyika’s Minister of Lands, — 1 - _ , , - drtlons, during his Africa tour, Williams has fﬂund time to Freedom Day pregram in New York. , j
‘ Surveys & Water receives Albert Schweit- ' . _ . . . » u» a; 100k“??? the socml 111013161115 and cultural lyapkemungls 01’ the “ BOTTOM LEFT «a— .Mr. Williams amuses \ ,
, zer Award presented on behalf of Animal ‘ . ‘ _, g; y . 5% * a f severe-13?; African countries he has been v1s1tlng. Reiteratmg- ' school girlslin Tanganyika as he playson an ‘

  

   
 

Presidg t Kennedy’sviews in support ofregional cooperative
projec ‘5, he has been trying to learn what the people of. Africa
a America may do together in the service of freedom,

Welfare Institute."
OP RIGHT -—.-.Mr. Williams visits the

v

African drum. 1 ~

   
 
   
  
 

     

,cro eighood, and progress. , _ - ' - ' ' ' , ' " '.

N’

  

  

 

\
“7
{9313

  

”11.x:

 

...«

      

   

manta ere-m"

             

 

   




Sal-am, Tuestlagyﬁchbruary 28;, tel.
» Nc. ell-33 '

 

 

 

 

Medals awarded by the United States‘Animais Welfare institute
the Albert Schweitzer Award —— to two: prominent ianganyikans
were matte in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Mr. Manner: Williams.
The recipients were Chief Fulntl-ikira, Minister for Lands, Saturn
veys and Water, seen here receiving the award, and? Mrs. iszoacl
Slater, organising secretary of the: R.S.P.G.A., whose husband
accented the medal in her absence from Dar es Salaam .lVir.
Williams said the donors of the award has been “tremendously
impressed” with the work done) in Tanganyika: Chief Fundikira,
acknowledging the award, said it was an encouragement to those ‘
in Tanganyika who were trying to educate their people t0 a rea.
lisation that cruelty of all kinds was evil. “We regard animals
here as one of our richest resources,” he; said.

 




Fabmzary 7, 1961

Ham G. gamma Williams
Department @f State
Washington, 13.0.

Dear Saapy,

qﬁa'are $0 daaply grateful to
yam for your kindness in presanting the
Albart ﬁchweitzar'ﬂedal ta Chief Funﬁikira
in Dar as Salaam. It will mman a great deal
_ta him and to the forty thousand mﬁmbara 9f
the semiaty fer tha Prevantian 9f Cruelty
ta Animals of Which'he is Praaident.

Chief Funﬂikira haa written ua
be gay haw muCh ha leaks farward to tha day
when he will vecaive the medal amu.g his awn
peeple. He writes that they "will ahare the ‘
jay and hanaur of such an intermﬁtional award."
Your presentation will gerve ta redoubla thia
'gaad faeling.

Rncloaed is a brief article which
,givas 5mmainformation on Chief Fundikira‘g
am} Mrs. Slate/mm 391m: humm afforta. I
rggret that ﬁrs. Slatar is travelling ta
Swiﬁzarland at tha presanﬁ time,‘but I am
sure that Chiaf Fundikira will accept hﬁr
medsi, t0», an bar behalf and keep it for“her
return.

‘ Withkiﬁéﬂmagards and best wishes
39 you and Nanaey. I hopa.yeur African trip will
be a great aucaeaa.

Sincergly,

 




 

 

 

‘.
"a

I see Irku'w H§§_ 53‘ 3"(1

1
whuw
*L/zz/it’g

“333 < @4

11 Announcement To Amaze,

TAMWORTH—Well, well! Here

'13 something that all but knocked '

e off. my chair when I opened
my morning’s mail.

3“The Albert Schweitzer Medal
of the Animal Welfare Institute,
given annually in recognition of
an outstanding contribution to the
welfare of animals, has been
awarded for the first time to hu~
manitarians in Africa... Chief Ab-
dullah Said Fundikira and Mrs.
lsobel Slater, of Dar es Salaam,
Tanganyika, President and Execue-
tive Director respectively of the
3Tang anvika Division of the ROyal
iSociety for Prevention. of Cruelty
31:0 Animals, are joint recipients
3and will share the $500 cash
award that accompanies the med
3als Presentation of the medals
3will he made in person to Chief
3Fundiki1a and Mrs. Slater by the
‘Hon. G. Mennen Williams, newly
3appointed Assistant Secretary of

EState for African Affairs, on his

next trip to Africa. Chief Fundi-
kira is Minister for Land and Sur-
‘veys of Tanganyika, and wildlife
:is under his jurisdiction in this
3capacity. The Tanganyika RSPCA,
Which works actively to protect
both wild and domestic animals
3from cruelty and needless destruc-
3tion, and conducts an effective
iprogram of human education, has
fneaily 800 branches comprising
35011112 10, 000 members.”

3 That there should even exist
it}, 000 African members of the
Cruelty to Animals Society! This
alone is a crossroads in human
3111:1113 compaiable to Newton’s
apple 01 the invention of the
3stean1hoat Any of us who have
lread those recent fine books about
‘ African wildlife. - NO ROOM IN.
Till; ARK, THE. LION, BORN“

FREE and the re.st——will hardly".

By MARJORY GANE unamnss 1’ A 1 .3

If the .
:hemsrhis hate now deci
curb the 11111111153 massam mg
is the pi esent doom of one of
greatest assets,
believr anything,
A chief in Tanganyika is a po
erful poison. His own warri
with their spears and inexorat
tribal customs have not been id
'n the slaughter. A conversion
that quarter is a conversion i
deed. Another lightning flash .
the picture is the figure of Mr
Isobel Slater now named befor
the woz id She must be something
in expt't-ni nce, in wisdom in driv..
at least. equal to that of the other
Tanganyika warriors.

credit our ears. icans3 "

103
ti
t3

11'3

hereafter I 1' 3 3 -

(with the faint suggestion of talv

immense event; of the presentation,
is right out of our wildest. dreams.
I hope Mrs. Mennen Williams gets

hot life. There will be great doings
for su1 e, tribal dancing and d1 urns
and processions and feasts to cele-

 

 

 

 

 

‘ho h‘eachers in a new dress and

hat from London, or perhaps allow—

ing herself to he carried on some

Isobel my dear,
you on pulling off a magnificent
‘oh! Talk about women senators
and members: of Parliament, what
can they do in comparison with a
:woman as Executive Director of a
Division. of tribal. spearsmen in

 

iliams will she 11s the low-down
when she gets hacl

3 While the Animal Wellam Dish 33'
3 .

(Continued on Page Six)

to go along and has the time of

remarkable litter in the parade.-
we congratulate3

And not i
least in the situation, that Gover- .
nor Mennon Williams of Michigan 7

cum powder in his name), should ‘
stumble the first thing into this .

brate the slieik’s new honor, with ‘
Mrs. Slater sitting demurely on:

Tanganyika. We hope Mrs. W'll 3

 

 

 

l:

 




PAGE 52X

A5 g 5922'? ﬁg“. no

...7... a,

 

‘1“ (Continued from page one)
Shite 22-0212 its office in New York
i322? "iii. 22212 St. ) itinds us ”this elec-
‘I’jtric sho<l< with. one hand with the
other it 221321l les 22 diller' 2'22. kind.
QR 212221-1223; \12222c21 11221102221 smut.
dine li‘2ai‘l1ut‘ie abuses in. tin)» name
moi" 25222221122! experi211entation in some--
Imedical li‘ibm-‘a'tor‘ies (strcallco) is
so 1112-2212212»- I cannot pass it on."
Witru alequaie legislation to
’ prey vent, and p21<:ss222es'l"2‘<1211 drag
lio‘a 2s<3s to wet next results 02120 the
inatket. but quick, experimenters
“.run amok. Unnecessary thousands
fol" dogs, cats etc. are tortured to
1thei22'122d and llll“t')\an away still
ifliving. . .
3 The 11222021 in this field are
not f/ie ends by no 1tui‘e. They be-
.c0me so thIOUUl‘l lack of time lack
of space lack of capital outlay
~ perh 221s and fii'lally habit—fori‘ncd
.lcallousnetis about anything so sec-
li'jondary as humane procedure since
1 the beast: rare to die any way This
.need not be. It only awaits laws.
"lie 82222121 have long had these
flaws. ll'2e32‘ do not allow irrespon-
"“sible 52212212221 <1::‘p<‘ rin‘ient wholesale.
“there ha: 2 to bee license and work-
<23- mus be accredited. Nor is
' there on such spread of pernicious
live animal experimentation as has
iroow ed re‘voltinO things in our“
‘CllLOl this last year. Under the
hallo“. ed word science boys per-
2221211 outrages unhindeiedl One
3 "such was found. to have 300 am.
2111 als in his cellar in various
notions of his surgery with neiOh-
b 32221000 childten looking, on in ab-
.sor prion. ELVen ii a school pioiect
‘1,’ has been allowed by the teacher r,
vii: can at «best merely duplicate
Liwhat is already known. At won”
:22 does ii'icaicuiabie harm both '
whildren and. animals.
2 The protest is complicated .
lithe anti-vivisection societies who.
ffapproach calls for" the abando
-=i‘22e222: of all medical work wit.
Lfanin‘ials. This attitude is hot
f‘hysterlcal and unjust; ending '2‘
CLconfirm the laboratory men i-
:closing‘ their ears to any criticism
jNot to all laboratories though,
lidoes this apply, by any means.
:In the 'hur‘y to produce, animals
z221219 freely wasted. There are no
E‘ules that the supervisors must
enforce What is so dii‘ef'ully need-
éd is regulation. Perhaps Ameri-
éan barbarity can be curbed so
that our morals may keep pace
with those 01" Chief Fundikira’s
tribe in tanganyika It is the
glooper bill before the House of
Representatives that needs to be
passed‘

 

 

 

 




Many of yam are readers of William Carr's column in the
New York Post each Saturday.’30u know haw farcafully and how
conscientiously he reparts on matters pertaining to animal
welfare.

William Carr is the most affectiva reporter in an? cauntry
telling the facts about cruelty and injustice to animals.
Whether doctors, veterinariana, officials 0 animal arganiaaﬁiena
or othershave been.rasp0nsibla far the naeﬂlaaa suffering 0f
anhaals, he doas mat hesitate ta tall his ,,. f -ga tall Stary.

The Post deserves paaisa far publiahing , A: a calumniat.

For his apurage, his'humama conviction, and his ataadfasﬁ

ﬁfforta to help animals in mead, tha Animal Walfara Inatituta

is proud to give him ita highaat racagaition, tga Schweitzer

Madal .

 




_January 16, 1961 '

ﬁrs. Clyde C. Traeﬁ
EEdallic Art Company
{325 East hgth Sﬁreet
ﬂew York, ﬁew Yark
Dear ﬁrs; Trees,
Thank you far ynur letter of January 9th. Eée'wish to

orﬁar has mare Sch%aitzar medals, at $25.00 each, thesa t9

be held by yau until needed.

Thanking you} I am

Sincerely yours,

Estella Braper
Executivs Secretary

 




MEDALLIC ART COMPANY
“1111515513?“ 325 EAST 45TH STREET' NEW YORK
January 9, 1961

Mrs. Estella Draper, Executive Secretary
Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

Dear Mrs . Draper:

You asked me to write you about a re-order of the Schweitzer
medals so that you would have some in stock for future requi-
sitions.

Your last order was placed in June 1959 for 2 bronze medals.
The charge remains the same for 2 additional medals including
cases, namely, $25 each. Engraving is extra at 12¢ a letter.

We will not enter a re-order until we receive your authorization
to do so. Please let me know if there are any further questions.

Sincerely,

>4»- . / ,,
<Jﬁ/Ltcm/K 551C5W

Mrs. Clyde C. Trees
Vice President—Treasurer

TELEPHONE: OREGON 9-1616 CABLE ADDRESS: MEDALLICOM

 




s

l,‘

I

I

 

“9/ I,.i3\ ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

,t‘“ ’ 22 EAST 17TH STREET
“\QIQQ\II» ~. NEw YORK 3, N. Y.

November 9, 1961

Dear Member ,

We hOpe you will come to the Animal Welfare Institute meeting, December 17th at
which the Schweitzer Medal for 1961 will be awarded to William H.A. Carr. There has
never been an AWI meeting at this time of year before, and we hope that some members
who live at a distance and have not been able to attend other meetings may be planning
to come to New York before Christmas and will find the date convenient.

The Friday evening before (December 15th) is the night of the preview performance
of "First Love" for the benefit of the Animal Welfare Institute and Friends of Animals,
Inc., and we hOpe that those who are in New York will help the animals at the same time

they enjoy themselves at this magnificent drama.

The enclosed blue folder gives all details for both events. We trust you received
the AWI annual report with the September-October Information Report. Additional cepies

will be sent on request.

Enclosed are two items which some members may wish to use in ensuring that
cruelty is not practiced in the classrooms of their city. The slip giving AWI rules on
animals in schools, and the reprint of an article which appeared in the American Biology
Teacher on this subject are available-,gfor distribution from the Institute as are the manuals
referred to in the article, "First Aidjand Care of Small Animals" and "Humane Biology
Projects". Please let us know if educators in your area are interested in receiving c0pies.

With great appreciation of your support of the Institute's work for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, and looking forward to seeing you if you are able to attend the

meeting and the theatre benefit,
Sincerely,

/7 , .. ’ .
“be i; Zip! 6:41-14»; 4,7

Christine Stevens , President




The Abuse of Animals in the Classroom and

How It Can Be Avoided

Animal Welfare Institute, New York

Dr. Chauncey D. Leake, Professor of
Pharmacology at Ohio State University,
recently wrote: “It seems to me that it is
wise to avoid getting our youngsters so en-
thused over biological sciences that they are
anxious to undertake extensive animal experi-
mentation without the background, the ex-
perience, the judgment, or the wisdom that is
necessary in handling animals appropriately
for complicated biological experimentation. In
other words, I think we had better continue
to learn the hard way: there is plenty of bi-
ology to be gotten from a study of unicellular
organisms that can be readily obtained in any
high school laboratory, and handled and fol-
lowed with skill and convenience. We are apt
to get into trouble using animals.”

Sensationalism in the teaching of high school
biology seems to us to be on the increase. No
doubt the majority of our teachers avoid the
practices listed below, but there are numerous
cases of educators, possibly unable to convey
the intellectual interest of their subject by
more conscientious means, encouraging chil—
dren to make cruel and pseudo—scientiﬁc ex-
periments paralleling whatever ﬁeld of research
is receiving popular publicity at the time.

Following are examples of the type of pain-
ful and uncreative experimentation to which
our organization is opposed. Pupils have been
taught to “make routine transfer of cancer
cells peritioneally in mice,” and a machine
has been devised'to force mice to inhale high
concentrations of tobacco smoke and pepper
in connection with the national enquiry,
“Does smoking cause lung cancer.” Objections
might also be raised to certain experiments by
which “the effects of radiation on rats are
determined,” especially since the students con—
cerned have not yet mastered the anatomy
and physiology of the rats they are destroying.
Again, at the height of the Sputnik publicity,
children were taught to detonate home-made
rockets containing mice, and here, while the
making of the rocket may have familiarized
the children with some principles of 'me—
chanics, the inclusion of the mouse, the thing
that gave the project its glamor, had no sort

of justification. As the New Y 0713 Herald
Tribune commented: “Let youngsters ﬁre off
tiny Sputniks if they can. But why imprison
a mouse, or any living creature in one, if no
knowledge is to be yielded by its death?
Killing a mouse, suddenly, may be necessary
to prudent housekeeping. Subjecting one need-
lessly to 3,284 feet of . . . terror shows little
reverence for life. If increased interest in sci—
ence is to lead merely to greater callousness,
the world will not have moved ahead.”

To criticize such misplaced attempts as the
high school research projects described above-
is not to suggest that all animal life be excluded
from the biology classroom. The judicious
introduction of some forms of life can be a
valuable teaching asset. Students will take a
keener interest in the forms they are studying
if they have an opportunity to observe them
in life. They can be led to develop responsibil—
ity for animals kept in the classroom; pros—
pective scientists must be made to realize that
a normal healthy condition in the research
animal is the sifze qua 720712 of an authentic
biological experiment, and that it is a part of
the scientist’s job to see that his animals are
well kept. All students may be trained to
make careful and precise observations of the
physical form and of the habit or movements
of the species they are shown. The importance
of a well developed technique of observation
in biology can hardly be overestimated. Many
important discoveries were not the result of
hypothesis and experiment but were instead
chance observations by trained observers. Sir
Alexander Fleming’s discovery of penicillin
is a recent example. Interest, responsibility,
and a technique of observation may be culti-
vated in students with the help of animal life
kept in the classroom.1 The major problem
is the selection of suitable forms.

1Students may be interested to read some works
on animal behavior by such distinguished observers
as Tinbergen, Lorenz, Eckstein, von Frisch, Fabre,
J. S. Harley, and others. The Animal Welfare In-
stitute is preparing a pamphlet which will include a
select bibliography of thewritings on behav1or most
useful to the high school student.

Reprinted from THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, Vol. 22, N0. 8, November, 1960

 




480

Many teachers and scientists agree that
some important principles of biology can be
taught successfully with the help of live uni—
cellular organisms such as protozoa, yeast, and
bacteria. Colonies of ants, or, in rural areas,
of bees, may be especially housed for class ob—
servation. The study of genetics is well illus-
trated by breeding the fruit-ﬂy, Drosopbila.
Higher forms, such as reptiles, mammals, and
birds, may be kept for general observation;
however, the dissection of dead specimens,
supplemented with models and ﬁlmstrips,
should suffice to give the student a working
knowledge of their anatomy and physiology.
Crude experiments involving surgery or stress
are not the training students need. Respect
for living things, sound judgment, reliability,
and a technique of observation will go further

towards making competent biologists than will

the kind of emotions aroused by crude surgery
in supposed imitation of a fantasy hero.

Students who are induced to perform pain—
ful experiments on the higher animals should
ﬁrst be made aware of two points:

1. What they are doing is not advancing

scientiﬁc knowledge or serving any al-
tru1st1c purpose.
The enjoyment of tumor transplantation
or other simple surgery is not an intel-
lectual pleasure; the child who takes
pleasure in such practices is likely to be
indulging the darkest and most destruc—
tive side of his personality.

Teachers and students alike ought to give
careful thought to these two points so as to
be in a position to take moral responsibility
for their acts if there is anything hazy in their
realization of the above two points.

If animals are to be kept in the classroom,
it is of the ﬁrst importance that the teacher
should enforce a serious and knowledgeable
attitude toward their care. Most students will
be interested in constructing and outﬁtting
suitable quarters for classroom animals; some
will be willing to undertake care and feeding.
It is essential that the routine of cleaning,
watering, and feeding be inflexibly carried
out. Some teachers have found that the best
method is to assign two volunteers to each
cage of animals for an entire semester. The
daily ration of food and water for each cage
and the routine days for cleaning should be
posted, so that in case of absence substitutes
will know where to take over. Sudden changes

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

N ovenzber, 1960

in diet may cause colic and intestinal disturb—
ances. Care must be taken that a triple ration
of food and water is always provided on Fri-
days. Vacation periods present a major prob-
lem: in our experience, scbool janitors are
never reliable animal caretakers. It will prob—
ably be necessary for the animals to board
with the teacher or with a really responsible
student. The teacher who decides to keep
animals in the classroom must take the ultimate
responsibility for the care and feeding of the
animals at all times.

Two indispensible pieces of equipment for
keeping rodents are the water bottle and the
food hopper. The hopper prevents animals
from scattering and wasting their food; the
water bottle ensures that the drinking supply
will not be spilt and the animals left thirsty
during an unsupervised period. A water bottle
is simple to make. Through the cork of the
bottle goes a piece of glass tubing with an in—
ternal diameter of 3 / 8”, and thick walls. The
outer end of the tube has been rotated in a
Bunsen ﬂame until the opening is between
1/16” and 1/8” in diameter and bent at an
angle of not more than 45 0 out of straight, so
that, when the, bottle is hung inverted in the
cage, the spout curves downwards and out- '
wards. If the cork is airtight, the water will
not run out when the bottle is ﬁlled but will
always be available at the tip of the tube. The
table gives measurements for some common
laboratory animals:

Capacity of bottle

Mouse Rat
4 oz. 1 pt.

Guinea Pig Rabbit
1 pt. 1 pt.
(for 1 rabbit)

Distance of spout from
cage ﬂoor for adults:
for young
11/2 I! 6!!
same 3" 3”
All caged animals require fresh water at all
times, and food should also be available to
them on a twenty—four bour basis.

If the cages are placed in an area receiving
direct sunlight at any time of day, a sunshade
must be provided by attaching brown paper
to the sides and top of about one-third of the
cage area. Animals must never be left in a
draft, but adequate provision for ventilation
must be made, especially over the weekend.

It is also the teacher’s responsibility to kill
diseased or unwanted animals by a humane

 

 




 

Vol. 22, No. 8

method. The best killing method is the chlor-
oform chamber. A chloroform chamber is a
box containing a wire netting shelf raised
above the ﬂoor level, with a perforated lid. A
piece of cotton wool saturated with chloro-
form is placed on the ﬂoor of the box, and the
animal is placed on the wire netting shelf
above. The animal must never come into direct
contact with liquid chloroform which ir—
ritates the mucous membranes. Since the ob-
ject is to anesthetize, not to asphyxiate, an
adequate amount of outside air must enter the
box until the animal is unconscious. The animal
may be observed through a hole in the lid;
if it struggles, more air should be admitted;
when it becomes unconscious, all outside air
should be cut off. Never remove the animal
from the chloroform box or dispose of the
body until it is stiff and cold.

Mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, frogs, and
ﬁsh are some of the animals most likely to be
kept in the classroom. The teacher should
familiarize all students with the basic require-
ments of the chosen species and demonstrate
the correct method of handling it. Some notes
on the basic care and handling of the common
species follow: These notes outline minimum
standards; students may be encouraged to raise
these standards further. For example, they
may wish to design roomier cages with more
elaborate exercise facilities or nest boxes than
are described below; experimenting in obtain—
ing the optimum housing arrangement or diet
will train students to make close observations
of the animals’ condition.

Mice: Four mice or a breeding pair may be
kept in a cage 6” x 12”, but a larger cage will
provide more space for activity and more op—
portunity for interesting observations. Mice
can be kept in a wire mesh cage with a wire
mesh ﬂoor and a movable tray beneath, which
should be lined with newspaper and cleaned
daily. However, recent scientiﬁc studies
show that a solid nonporous cage ﬂoor, cov—
ered with peat moss or shavings, provides an
optimum environment for mice, and that mice
thus housed are healthier and more content
than mice kept on wire mesh. The whole cage
should be washed in soap and hot water
weekly. If there is a possibility of infection,
disinfectant should be added to the water. The
cage must be thoroughly dried before the
mice are replaced. Mice are sensitive to sud—
den changes of temperature and thrive at tem—

THE ABUSE OF ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM

481

peratures of 680—720. Suckling mice require a
temperature of 760—780. Mice are by nature
nocturnal and should be provided with a dark
corner in the form of a nesting box. It should
contain bedding material such as shredded
paper, woodshavings, or cotton wool. A con-
venient nesting box is a small metal cup, in-
verted, with an entrance cut in one side at the
rim. An exercise device such as a Ferris wheel
is a good idea. Mice are omnivorous and will
thrive on a diet of meat, ﬁsh, cheese and vege—
table scraps, supplemented with bread, oats,
sunﬂower seed, hemp, or millet. It is also pos-
sible to feed them on a diet of commercial
mouse pellets if these are supplemented with
greens, yeast, and any of the above mentioned
foods. An exclusive diet of commercial mouse
pellets may result in malnutrition and canni-
balism. Mice are usually docile; a mouse may
be picked up by placing the ﬁngers under the
animal and gently easing it into the palm of
the hand. Mice mav also be lifted, not carried,
by the base of the tail if excitable. Gentle
stroking may help to calm them.

Rats: A rat cage should be similar in design to
a mouse cage but considerably larger. Seven
hundred square inches of ﬂoor Space is the
recommended minimum for eight rats. Rats
require a nesting box. Cleaning the rat cage is
an identical operation to cleaning the mouse
cage. Rats are susceptible to respiratory dis-
eases, and a constant temperature of 65 O-7OOF.,
low humidity, and good ventilation are essen-
tial to good health. Rats may be fed on a dlet
of commercial rat pellets, supplemented with
grain, greens, milk, meat, ﬁsh, and vegetables.
While rats are intelligent and make excellent
pets, an angry or frightened rat will inflict a
painful bite. It is advisable to handle rats
gently, to avoid sudden movements, and to
ive the rat time to realize it is gomg to be
handled before picking it up. The best way
to pick up a rat is to place the hand palm
down over the animal’s back, with the thumb
and foreﬁnger around the neck, and the re-
maining ﬁngers around the animal’s body to
take the weight. Rats are playful and aPpI‘CCl-
ate exercise facilities such as Ferris wheels.
Nonbreeding rats and mice should be separ—
ated from breeding specimens.
Guinea pigs: Guinea pigs may be kept in pens
whose ﬂoors are covered in a 2” layer of saw-
dust or peat moss followed by a layer of straw.
An adult guinea pig requires one square foot or




482

ﬂoor space but will exercise better in a larger
area. If guinea pigs are kept in wire mesh bot-
tom cages, the mesh must be %”, otherwise
the animals will suffer leg injuries. In a wire
mesh cage bedding material such as peat moss
or softwood sawdust must be provided.
Guinea pigs may be fed on hay, which must
be kept in a rack to prevent soiling, commer-
cial guinea pig pellets, and fresh greens. If a
liberal supply of grass, clover, alfalfa, cabbage,
kale, chicory, lettuce, or sprouted grain is not
given, guinea pigs develop a Vitamin C de—
ﬁciency which is often fatal. Guinea pigs
thrive in a cool, dry climate, 650—79017. They
should be handled gently, avoiding pressure
on the abdomen. Pregnant females should not
be handled. To pick up a guinea pig, place one
hand well up across the shoulders, with the
thumb behind a front leg, and the ﬁngers well
forward on the opposite side. Work ﬁngers
gently under the hindquarters to take the
weight.

Rabbits: Rabbits require a roomy cage. One
square foot of ﬂoor space for every pound of
rabbit is a general rule. Rabbits rest extended
with their feet stretched out behind them, and
any cage which prevents them from doing
this should be allocated to a smaller species.
The cage ﬂoor should be covered with 2” of
softwood sawdust or peat moss. Rabbits pre-
fer a cool temperature, 600-650F. Strong drafts
or strong sunlight are to be avoided. Rabbits
may be fed on commercial rabbit pellets or on
a grain mixture of whole oats, wheat, and bar—
ley. They also require a good quantity of
alfalfa or clover hay, and green, and root
vegetables daily. If rabbits are put out to grass,
or given an excessive quantity of green food,
they should ﬁrst be given a meal of grain or
pellets, to prevent them from taking a surfeit
of green food and developing colic. Never
lift a rabbit by the ears without supporting
its hindquarters with the other hand. It may
be preferable to grasp the rabbit by the scruff
of the neck while supporting the hindquar—
ters as above. Rabbits are inclined to jump and
kick when lifted; they must be treated gently
but ﬁrmly. Rabbits not gently handled may
scratch. Adult rabbits should be housed singly,
as they often ﬁght.

Amphibians: Frogs may be kept in large tanks
or concrete pools. It is essential to provide a
resting place outside of the water in the form
Of a raft or raised plank. The top of the en—

THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER

 

N ovembei, I 960

closure must be screened to prevent escape.
The water must be changed daily, unless a
system of running water is used. Frogs kept
in foul water die. A diet of maggots, meal—
worms, slugs, earthworms, blowfly larvae, or
meat is suitable and should be placed out of
the water. Methods of raising these larvae and
worms are described in the Animal Welfare
Institute publication, “First Aid and Care of
Small Animals,” by Ernest P. Walker. Toads
should have a similar diet. They thrive in a
large cage whose ﬂoor is covered with moist
earth or gravel. A rockery of stones or bricks,
under which the toads can retire, is recom-
mended. Frogs and toads may be killed in a
chloroform chamber.

F isb: An aquarium may be planted with pond-
weed which will increase the oxygen content
of the water and stocked with a few snails
which feed on decaying vegetable matter and
help to keep the aquarium clean. Further
cleaning may be carried out with a siphon.
Sudden changes in water or water temperature
are harmful to ﬁsh, and all the water in an
aquarium should never be changed at once.
Chlorine is harmful to ﬁsh, and tap water is to
be avoided if pondwater is available. If tap
water must be used, it should stand in shal-
low pans for several days before use. When
water weed will grow in water, it is generally
safe for ﬁsh. It is essential that the aquarium
should contain adequate water and water
surface. One gallon of water per inch of ﬁsh
is a general rule. For six one-inch ﬁsh, an
aquarium 16” x 9” x 9” is adequate. This
provides 5 gallons of water and 144 square
inches of air surface. Overfeeding and over—
crowding are the most frequent causes of
death to aquarium ﬁsh, according to the
New York Aquarium. Goldﬁsh may be fed
chopped raw meat, or angleworms, and a good
quality of commercial ﬁsh food. In feeding
tropical ﬁsh it is especially important to pro-
vide a variety of different foods so the ﬁsh
can select what they prefer, because the die-
tary needs of the different species are not well
established. Tropical ﬁsh aquaria should be
maintained at a constant temperature of 75°F,
and a cover provided to prevent the ﬁsh from
jumping out. In order to avoid overfeeding,
remove any uneaten food ten minutes after the
ﬁsh have been offered it.

The Animal Welfare Institute would be
glad to furnish a list of books and pamphlets

 

 

 




Vol. 31AM). (8’

relating to animal care and teaching with ani-
mals in schools. Especially recommended are
the pamphlet, “First Aid and Care of Small
Animals,” free on request by a teacher; an
linglish publication, “Animals in Schools,” by
j. P. Volrath of the Universities Federation

Tm: ABUSE or ANIMALS IN THE CLASSRooM 483

for Animal Welfare; and “Humane Biology
Projects,” now available from the Animal
Welfare Institute. Address enquiries to: The

Animal Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Street,
New York 3, New York.

 

 

 




1961 SCHWEITZER AWARD
TO NEW YORK COLUMNIST

The 1961 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Wel-
fare Institute has been awarded to William H. A. Carr,
reporter and columnist for the New York Post, for his
outstanding articles opposing cruelty and callousness to-
ward animals. Presentation of the medal will be made at
the annual meeting of the Institute on December 15.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal was created by the Insti-
tute in 1954, at which time a gold replica was presented
to Dr. Schweitzer; it is presented annually in recognition
of a distinguished contribution to the welfare of animals.

 

animals most commonly used in laboratories, and appen-
dices on nutrition and transportation. Copies available
free upon request in sufﬁcient number so that every per-
son employed in the care of animals and every medical or
veterinary medical student may have an individual copy.

“Comfortable Quarterss‘for Laboratory Animals”, pre-
pared by the Institute, a 74:page loose-leaf publication,
containing ﬂoor plans, construction details, etc., designed
to guide institutions in remodelling their animal quarters
or designing new ones. One copy“'sprovided to each insti-
tution without charge. Copies also itsent upon request to
architectural ﬁrms planning animal quarters.

/ 0 -~- .5




RULES GOVERNING TREATMENT OF
ANIMALS BY HIGH SCHOOL
BIOLOGY STUDENTS
1. Animals being obseryed by students
must always be maintained in the max-

imum possible condition of health, com-
fort and well-being.

2. No vertebrate animals used for pri-
mary or secondary school teaching may
be subjected to any experiment or pro-
cedure which interferes with its normal
health or causes it pain or distress.

 




 

PREVIEW PERFORMANCE
of the exciting new play
FIRST LOVE

by Samuel Taylor
from
Romain Gary's best-selling

"Pr omis e of Dawn"
starring

ELISABE TH BER GNER
and
HUGH O'BRIAN

dir ec ted by
ALFRED LUNT

Friday, December. 15, 1961
at 8:30 P.M.

Morosco Theatre
217 West 45th Street, New York

Price of Benefit Tickets:
Orchestra $20 and $25
Mezzanine $15

Balcony $6 and $10

Tickets may be purchased by
writing to:

Mrs. James J. Davis
141 East 33rd Street (lo—B1
New York 16, New York

Reservations must be received
by December 4th.

AN INVITATION

 

to
.232... events of interest to
HUMANITARIANS
Come and bring your friends

December 15th, 8:30 P,M,

THEATRE PREVIEW
for the benefit of
Animal Welfare Institute
and

Friends of Animals, Inc.

*****
*****

December 17th, 3:00 P.M.

 

Pr es entation of the

1961 SCHWEIT ZER MEDAL

*****
*****

The
Albert Schw eitz er Medal

of the
Animal Welfare Institute

will be presented to

WILLIAM A. C ARR

in recognition of outstanding
writing for the protection of

animals .

You are cordially invited
to attend the presentation,
meeting and tea
at three o'clock
December 17, 1961

at 50 East 77th Street (5A1
New York

(All humanitarians are invited, and
there is no charge.)

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EAST 17TH STREET
NEW YORK 3, N. Y.

November 9, 1961
Dear Member,

We hope you will come to the Animal Welfare Institute meeting, December 17th at
which the Schweitzer Medal for 1961 will be awarded to William H.A. Carr. There has
never been an AWI meeting at this time of year before, and we hOpe that some members
who live at a distance and have not been able to attend other meetings may be planning
to come to New York before Christmas and will find the date convenient.

The Friday evening before (December 15th) is the night of the preview performance
of "First Love" for the benefit of the Animal Welfare Institute and Friends of Animals,
Inc.. and we h0pe that those who are in New York will help the animals at the same time
they enjoy themselves at this magnificent drama.

The enclosed blue folder gives all details for both events. We trust you received
the AWI annual report with the September-October Information Report. Additional c0pies
will be sent on request.

Enclosed are two items which some members may wish to use in ensuring that
cruelty is not practiced in the classrooms of their city. The slip giving AWI rules on
animals in sch0015, and the reprint of an article which appeared in the American Biology
Teacher on this subject are available-{for distribution from the Institute as are themanuals
referred to in the article, "First Aidi‘fagnd Care of Small Animals" and "Humane 'B-iolbgy
Projects", Please let us know if educators in your area are interested in receiving c0pies,

With great appreciation of your support of the Institute's work for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, and looking forward to seeing you if you are able to attend the
meeting and the theatre benefit,

Sincerely,

// ' ‘ /’ '
(rt/3,1,5 Zia amt/54¢ 6;?

Christine Stevens , President

 




 

mental movement, a 3:355:

 

3 ' ‘1 \ I . ‘. i ‘ ' ﬂ . 9’
PF. 25. i 5' .J .. ., 333% .2 4.4.“!
“I". V...” J ”“5: " 77191.6" ri- "m!

 

. [_Colmon McCarthy“ ' ,

     

  , A Mossy-Horned Congressman Retires

‘ ‘ WASHINGTON - For much of his 43 years
. in Congress, W. R. Poage, a West Texas Demo-

crat, has had the singular honor of being a , .

code word. Say Poage to .. ._
someone in the environ- 2:232} 771?”?

‘ ' welfare rights group or ‘2
the food stamp lobby
and your meaning is
known: regressive,
close-minded,doltish. i

Poage’s political phi-
_losophy ~—— formedin his
boyhood on the Lazy
Eleven ranch of his cat-
t-leman father and 3
preached from his pulpit ...-__...
as chairman of the " . . .
House Agricultural Committee ‘9 has had lit-

tle regard for the welfare poor and almost .

none at all for the environmental movement.

His Stone Age image is of hisown making.
. ,He asked in food stamp hearings in 1969‘ why
‘ we should be “so concerned with maintaining
a bunch of drones. You know what happens in
the bee hive? They kill those drones. That is

what happens in most primitive societies. . -

Maybe we have just gotten. too far away from
the situation of primitive man.”

As cave dwellers welcome Poage back to. _
their midst —— he is retiring and spent his’final ~

day in Congress last week ~— it ought to'be

noted that he is owed one large debt by many . _

of the same liberals who once fought him so
bitterly. No one in Congress has done more for
the cause of humane killing of animals in the
nation's packing houses. ' .

 

He picked up the issue in 1956 when he took
his subcommittee to the Chicago stockyards

during a lull in the Democratic convention. ‘

The gore and mayhem of cattle being killed by
sledgehammers to the head -— sometimes the
workers would miss and only knock out an eye
—- was enough to get the group behind Poage’s
bill for humane methOds of killing. Two years
later, it became» law. . ‘

The powerful and bullish meat industry was
defeated. Not only were no back-home votes
to be won by Poage on this issue, but perhaps a
lot could be lost: He formed an alliance with
many of the humane groups with liberal
memberships that backed Other social
reforms held in contempt in West Texas.

Although Poage’s work on behalf of animals
in the slaughterhouse has never been a major
national issue, it is instructive as apolitical
lesson nevertheleSS. It underscores, first, the
odd shapings that political alliances
sometimes take and, second, that, the dark
clouds of "the most reactionary mind
sometimes part to reveal the brightest of suns.

As with other aging armadillos in the Texas
delegation who are retiring from the House
this year -~ George Mahon, with 43 years in
Congress; Olin E. (Tiger) Teague, 33 years;
Omar Burleson, 32 years — Poage was part of
the southern; rural coalition that long
controlled Congress. From safe one-party

districts. it used seniority as a lasso to hold.

back any stampedes for reform..Liberals like
John Gardner of Common Cause regularly
called for Poage‘s defeat -— as one who
{promotes the interests of influential farmers
and blocks legislation to feed hungry
Americans." But Poage endured.

To praise him now is not to forget or_
condone the grave suffering his philosophy ..
causedamong the poor. It is to recognize
instead that in politics, as in life, no one is all j:
bad and no one all good. That would appear to ‘j
be an obvious enough truth, except that those
who align themselves with the so-called “good .
issues” ~— whether food stamps or clean air -» .[
occasionally disdain any association with the.
Poages. The disdaining can be costly. ' ‘

In his office the other morning, Poage was
much the same bronco of a man with the
throaty voice who fumed against the drones 10;.
years ago. But he recalled with affection his:
enduring friendship with Christine Stevens,"
one of the country’s most persistent animal.
rights advocates. For more than two decades,
they have been an unlikely team: she a"
celebrated Washington party-giver and _a‘
champion of wildlife and he a down-home
porch-sitter and a champion of agribusiness.
When asked about her friend, Mrs. Stevens"
says that he will always deserve the Albert,
Schweitzer medal he won in 1961 from the
Animal Welfare Institute. ' '

As the Schweitzer laureate rides into the
West Texas sunset, he is proud of pushing a bill.
this last session that will advance a remaining
1 percent of America’s slaughterhouses into‘
compliance. With Poage’s work .99 percent
complete, it is fitting that the new bill was
sponsored by Rep. George Brown. He is a
liberal California Democrat‘who is on the
opposite side of Poage 99 percent of the time.
But that’s the beauty of two opposites seeing
eye to eye: a strong vision is possible. i

(C) 1978. The Washington Post Company

 
  
 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EAST 17TH STREET
an You: 3, N. Y,

OREGON 5-1069

December 18, 1962

Dear Members and Friends,

The Schweitzer Medal for 1962 will be presented to
Miss Rachel Carson, author of "Silent Spring", the powerful
plea to protect wildlife, domestic animals and human beings
from indiscriminate poisoning by pesticides. The presenta-
tion will be made at the annual meeting of the Animal Welfare
Institute, 3:00 P. M., January 7, 1963, at 50 East 77th Street,
Apartment 5A. The date was set to make it possible for Miss

Carson to be present, and we hape that it will be a convenient
one for you.

There will be a report on the work of the Animal
Welfare Institute and after Miss Carson has spoken tea will be
served. We look forward to seeing you on the seventh.

With best wishes for a Happy Christmas and New Year!
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens ,
President .

 




