>>OZ mmIFC IU<m FOO m>.>mI._.

 




 

A Typical Rescue Case: only one
out of many Thousands

 

From the Ministry of Information:—

“The P.D.S.A. Rescue Squads are Mobile Surgeries complete.
with medicines, splints, bandages and an Operating Table, and
they work in conjunction with the Police, Air Raid Precautions
and Auxiiiary Fire Service Authorities. '

“When one of these Services has notiﬁed a Squad, it sets.

out with pickaxes, ropes and other tackle which might be
necessary for excavation work.”

The P.D.S.A. is the only Organization using such
Vehicles.

 




 

THE PEOPLE’S DISPENSARY FOR SICK ANIMALS
The only organization established exclusively for the free
treatment of Sick Animals of the Poor.

Head Office: l4 Clifford Street, London, W.l.
Technical Headquarters: P.D.S.A. Sanatorium, llford, Essex.
Patron: HRH. The Duchess of Kent.

Founder and Hon. Director: Mrs. M. E. Dickin, O.B.E.

 

 

A Letter of Thanks from a Chief Warden:— -

Numerous letters are received from eye-witnesses expressing
gratitude and admiration for the work of the Squads—the
following letter recently received from a Chief A.R.P..Warden
being one of many:— '

“I would like to express, together with the N.A.R.P.A.C.
representatives in the surrounding districts and the unfortunate
general public, a very strong appreciation of the unstinted
services being carried out' in the Areas so badly damaged during
the latest phase of the blitz, by your Officer who is touring the
affected Areas and rendering such good service to the animals.

As we are in the immediate line and range and constantly
daily receiving the bombs, he must, I am Sure, be feeling the
endless strain of constantly driving in the ‘Front Line,’ apart
from his Rescue work.”

 




 

A Typical Rescue Case: only one
out of many Thousands

 

During the Flying Bomb Raids, Horses, Dogs, Cats—some with
newly-born Kittens—Rabbits, Pigs—in one instance over 200—-
Poultry and Birds, have been rescued.

For security reasons we are unable to give the total number
of animals treated or'the vicinities in‘ which we work.

Many Animals are blown to pieces: others so mutilated as
to be unrecognizable.




THE PEOPLE’S DISPENSARY FOR SICK ANIMALS
The only organization established exclusively for the free
treatment of Sick Animals of the Poor.

Head Office: I4 Clifford Street, London, W.l.
Technical Headquarters: P.D.S.A. Sanatorium, llford, Essex.
Patron: HRH. The Duchess of Kent.

Founder and Hon. Director: Mrs. M. E. Dickin, O.B.E.

 

 

—When at work with a Squad this Technical Officer’s hand was
badly injured by flying glass. After his wound had been attended
to he slipped his hand from his sling and began at once to treat
a four-footed bomb victim.

 

A Technical Officer reports:—

“After a bomb had'fallen and we got up, the first things we
noticed were Cats and Dogs tearing along a street in sheer
fright to get away from’the terror. We expect a very busy day
to-morrow answering the telephone from people inquiring if
we have found their Animals, for some often run miles from

their homes.

“On returning to the Sanatorium we picked up a Dog miles
away .from where a bomb had fallen. lts neck was dislocated
and fractured by the blast.”

 




 

THE P.D.S.A. RESCUE SQUADS ARE IN FULL
ACTION AGAIN.

During the great Air Raids of |94l the Squads rescued over
l00,000 Animals that had been buried alive, injured, or panic-
stricken and lost. The Squads are now out again working at .
full pressure day and night in.Areas bombed by the Flying
Bombs. In their Ambulances they carry drugs, bandages and
surgical instruments to treat the injured animals on the spot
or, if necessary, destroy them humanely. Animals are returned
' to their owners when they can be found.

For Four Years the P. D...5A—in addition to its
normal work—has carred the burden of rescuing the
Animals. Now we are greatly in need of money to
face our new enemy—the Flying Bomb.

If you have ever owned an Animal, you will under-
stand why we ask you to help us.

Kind hearts in the North of England and other not-bombed
areas are stretching out a hand of sympathy and practical help
to their unfortunate brothers and sisters in London and other
bombed Areas. Animals and their poor-owners—victims of this
latest outrage—are crying out for similar help in their desperate
plight—Animals themselves cannot organize any scheme for
their relief: they can only suffer, often in great agony, and
slowly starve to death unless we go and rescue them.

With conﬁdence we ask animal lovers who are not living in
the front line of the present Raids to help them by sending a
contribution to enable the P....DSA to carry on its heart-

breaking work for the relief of their dumb misery.
M. E. DICKIN.

 

Contributions most gratefully received by Mrs. Dickin,
O. B. E. P. D. 5. A. Head Office, l4 Clifford Street, London,
W. l.

 




