PREBENDARY GBIER

ON
THE LICHFIELD DICCESAN CONFERENCE
AND VIVISECTION.

 

 

AT the above Conference, on the afternoon of the 22nd of
April, 1892, the subject of vivisection was under discussion
for an hour and a~half. When I rose to speak, it was ruled
that the time for closing the debate had come, and the
previous question was moved, seconded, and carried. I have
therefore drawn up the following reply to the speeches made
at the Conference in favour of vivisection. They were very
much what such speeches usually are, and might almost be

summed up as an argmnentmn ad vizisericordiam, an appeal to
the timidity of a class and the advocacy of the claims of the
body at the expense of moral principle.

1. One medical m an argued that to carry Mr. Ring’s resolution
against vivisection would be tantamount to a censure on the
whole medical faculty. I cannot understand why. He said that
he was not a vivisector himself, and in this respect the vast
majority of his brethren resemble him. But, however this
may be, it is obvious that in a controversy about conduct,
personal considerations are out of place. Very bad deeds
have been done by very good men. In days gone by many
who tortured in the vain hope of extirpating heresy, were
persons of the highest character. What they did, was done
for righteousness sake. The clergy and their allies felt that
the stability of the church was at stake, and with it the
restraints of the virtue which she taught. They certainly
were not all ﬁends; many of them were ardent philanthropists.
Well, centuries have passed, and we can now see clearly that
they were miserably deceived and guilty of the mischievous
unfaith of doing evil that good might come. The conscience
of the nation was right, and they were wrong, and we
unfeignedly rejoice that they were not allowed to go on

 




 

2

setting at naught the spirit of Christianity in the supposed
interests of Christian truth. I submit, then, that it is too
late in the day for any body of men to resent criticism to
which the highest profession of all has been subjected, and by
which it has been greatly beneﬁted. We do not impugn
motives; we only ask, and we shall continue to ask, that
certain methods of research shall be watched, examined,
considered, and, when wrong, suppressed.

For doctors, as a whole, I have the highest regard; amongst
them I have found some of my kindest friends, and most
useful fellow-helpers. No parish priest like myself, of more
than 30 years’ standing, can have failed to be struck by the
singular devotion of many a country practitioner who, for small
remuneration and without much prospect of advancement,
ministers to the wants of the poor and wears himself out in the
effort to heal their inﬁrmities. To me his calling is a positively
sacred one. I desire that no breath of suspicion should rest
upon it, and that it should be shielded from all complicity with
wrong doing. It pained me more than I can tell, when a doctor
expressed his regret that the nature of the operations which
he defended should have been brought before an assembly of
educated men like the clergy. I cannot bear to think of him
and his confréres as shrinking from the light, and it is just
because I long to regard them as followers of the Great
Physician of Body and Soul that I deeply deplore their
countenancing cruelties from which no one can doubt that
He would have turned with unutterable loathing.

2. One of the speakers showed considerable lacuteness by
deprecating the discussion, on the ground that it might lower
the prestige of the conference. We parsons are a sensitive
race, and the intellectual training which we have received
naturally inclines us to seek the approval and society of the
illaminati of the day. The fact, too, that we have made
mlstakes in regard to science in the past renders us very
slow to engage in any course which might betray us into
s1m11ar blunders now. Some of our number, again, are a little
apt to pride themselves more upon their common sense than
upon anythlng else, except, of course, the name of Christian,
and would far rather be written down as shrewd men of the
world than as enthusiasts. It was, therefore, not without
surprlse, though I cannot say that it was without grief, that
I heard the loud bursts of applause which greeted sneers at
enthus1asm and humanitarianism. The speaker had taken a
fa1r measure of asection of his audience, and adroitly appealed
to a weakness which has, again and again, prevented my
order from taklng the lead in philanthropic movements.
Stlll, none the less did he display his unwillingness to suffer
the matter 1n dispute to be judged without bias and tried
upon 1ts merlts, and thus show the extreme difﬁculties under

which . he laboured, to maintain his position by sound
reasoning.

 

 

 




 

 

 

3

3. What argument there was, was an inversion of the
proper order of things. Vivisection was useful, and there-
fore right. One clergyman went so far as to state this in the
baldest manner. I trust that he spoke thoughtlessly; for it
is obvious that the statement involved a principle which
might easily be stretched to cover any kind of iniquity.
There is, I think, a sounder ring in the words of the old
heathen poet—

\ \ I _ \ e ’5‘ 3/
M77 KaKa K€p3awew KaKa K€p5€a L0" a’r'qaw.

Presumably, the murders committed by the celebrated
Mr. Burke were of service to surgery. But even if he had been
actuated by a passion for science instead of greed for money,
it would hardly, I imagine, have been urged that they should
have led, not to his execution, but to his apotheosis. These,
however, I may be told, affected human life. True ; but it is the
same sentiment—I believe that it is the same commandment—
which forbids the destruction of human life and the torture of
sentient beings, and I am at a loss to know, if the end justiﬁes
the means in the one case, why it may not do so in the other.
To my mind the demand of the Italian vivisectors for the
bodies of criminals condemned to death as proper subjects
for their operations, is not one which can be logically or long
resisted by a State which sanctions such operations. The
experiments which have been made on pauper patients in
England, and the more recent inoculation of 30 of them with
the virus of cancer in Germany, are nothing more than might
be expected from those who, with a view

“ To do a great right, do a little wrong.”

Ah! would to God that it were but a little! Vivisection at
its best, as one of its advocates acknowledged, is a sad
business. Why, then, should it be tolerated? Because, say
he and his supporters, it leads to good results; because,
implies a clergyman, a thing that leads to good results must
be good. I protest with the Whole energy of my soul against
the inference as absolutely contrary to the {$609 of Chris-
tianity. A few days ago we knelt beneath the shadow of
that Cross which is the only adequate emblem of divine
enthusiasm for the salvation of mankind from all manner of
sin. What tongue, whether of men or angels, can recount
the length and breadth and depth and height of all the
beneﬁts which have ﬂowed to us from it! But was it then right
to crucify Jesus? Not for the whole world and all that it
contained would I be without the Cross. It is the fullest
manifestation of inﬁnite love to one who knows that he has
no hope but in that love, and yet is it the most awful mani-
festation of the appalling wickedness of man. Mystery of
mysteries, it solves, so far as is possible here, many other
mysteries: it raises our duties to a new level and clothes
them with a new sanction ; it dispels all moral fallacies, and

 




 

4

amongst them the ghastly illusion that we are justiﬁed in
committing cruelties, which for any other purpose would be
accounted hellish, in order to save our kind from a small part
of the agonies voluntarily endured by the sinless Son of Man.
For it proclaims, as nothing else can proclaim, that to bear
the greatest wrong is ten thousand times better than to do the
least. Is it not passing strange ‘2 The Cross is our symbol,
but Comfort is our goal. We ignore our ideals, and then We
naively complain that Christianity is no longer a power on
earth. How can it be, so long as, whilst we call Christ Lord,
Lord, we recognise Jeremy Bentham as our infallible Pope ?

I have no wish to discourage science. On the contrary,
I am persuaded that the religion of Him who is the
truth itself must derive advantage from the pursuit of
truth in every department of knowledge. But I demand
that scientiﬁc research shall be strictly kept within the limits
of divine morality. Is it ‘2 One of the speakers dwelt upon
the safeguards provided by Act of Parliament against the
abuse of vivisection, and stated that licensed vivisectors had
no wish for their removal. What his sources of information
may be I do not know, but articles in our monthly reviews
and letters in the newspapers have come under my notice, in
which these gentlemen have bitterly complained of the
restrictions to which they were subjected. Nor are these
restrictions sufﬁcient. No one in the Conference denied, and
no one anywhere can deny, the speciﬁc charges brought by
Mr. Ring against English vivisectors. It was, however,
contended that there was much cruelty perpetrated in this
country, and a great deal of it condoned by English society.
If this be so, so much the worse for English society. But is
it so ? I am not aware that atrocities at all equal to those of
which some physiologists are guilty are ever allowed to pass
without protest wheresoever in England or for whatsoever
reason they are practised. Besides, things must have come
to a pretty pass when scientiﬁc gentlemen are obliged to
shelter themselves behind the thoughtlessness of undisciplined
boys, and the unskilfulness or even the ruthlessness of
a few butchers. By all means let these latter be coerced
into good behaviour; but if they are not, that is no
reason why more cultured men should be permitted to be
barbarous. Moreover, it must be remembered that the
others do not hold our commission. The licensed vivisectors
do. They operate not merely ostensibly for the proﬁt,
but actually in the name of the whole community—1:43., in
ours. We are all implicated in their wickedness, if wickedness
it be; we all consequently have a right to demand that what
they do shall not be an outrage on the instincts of natural
piety; and if there are any men who par eweellence should
use that right, they are the clergy. To represent them as
incapable of forming a sound judgment on a moral question is
really to say that they are altogether unﬁt for the position




5

which they occupy. They have been ordained to guide
others in the way of holiness, and for them to keep silence
when a matter of right or wrong is before the world is to
repudiate their very raison d’ét're. Not improbably they are
ignorant of the technical terms of the laboratory, but they ought
to be as well qualiﬁed as any body of men on the face of the earth
to decide whether what is done is according to the will
of Him whose name is Love, whether because we may put
to death we may also put to torture ;——-whether it is legitimate,
for example, to cut the kidneys out of a living beast or a living
murderer, because it is legitimate for us to kill both the one
and the other, and whether under any circumstances, and if
so, under what, it is lawful to do evil that good may come.
When they have thought out the subject, and have shaken off
the dread of being vivisected, in the press, by our modern
inquisitors, I am full of hope that they will not be content
with the remarkable conclusion to which they came at the
Lichﬁeld Diocesan Conference. They will see, I trust, that a
great deal depends upon the answer to this question—Are
our investigations of nature to be controlled by the ethical
conceptions which come to us through faith in the unseen?
Or are our ethical conceptions to be determined, or at any
rate modiﬁed out of all likeness to themselves by our investi-
gation of the palpable and the seen ‘2 To-day it appears to
me, that as in the beginning of our race, Man is being tempted
to eat of the forbidden fruit, to take of the Tree of the Know-
ledge of good and evil; in other words, to try to gain good by
seeking the experience of evil. And it behoves the ministers
of God to lift up their voices against the old primaeval sin.
Let them say with the Laureate :—

“Who loves not Knowledge ? Who would rail
Against her beauty? May she mix
With men and prosper. Who would ﬁx
Her pillars ? Let her work prevail !
But on her forehead sits a ﬁre :

She sets her forward countenance,
And leaps into the future chance,
Submitting all things to desire.

A child as yet, half-grown and vain,
She cannot ﬁght the fear of death.
What is she cut from love and faith
But some wild Pallas from the brain
Of demons ? ﬁery—hot to burst

All barriers in her onward race

For power. Let her know her place.
She is the second, not the ﬁrst ;

A Higher Hand must keep her mild,
Or all will be in vain, and guide

Her footsteps, moving side by side
With Wisdom, like the younger child,
For she is earthly, of the mind,

But wisdom, heavenly, of the soul.”

 




 

6

In regard to the boasted triumphs of vivisection, it was
difﬁcult to make out at the Conference what they were or
what they were not. One gentleman stated the practice
stood to the medical profession in the same relation as
classical learning to the clerical. If so, if the healing of human
bodies be no more a necessary result of vivisection than the
healing of human souls is of an acquaintance with the
standard works of the ancient world, then credit quwstio.
Emphatically le jeu ne taut pas la chandelle. Most gladly
would I hand over the whole of Christendom to the tender
mercies of the Salvation Army if the education and superior
style of the clergy were to depend upon the tolerati on of pitiless
savagery. Certain instances, however, were adduced in which
vivisection was stated to have been of service. Of these three
were familiar to me, and in all these the speakers were
mistaken. M. Pasteur cannot be shown to have saved any
lives by his pretended cure for rabies: as a matter of fact,
the number of deaths from hydrophobia in France, where he
has inoculated most widely, has gone up since he began his
operations from 28 to 39 per annum. Sir Charles Bell,
again, who was asserted to have done much good by vivi-
section, apparently anticipated the statement, and ﬂatly
contradicted it. Harvey did not discover the circulation
of the blood by vivisection. But it was said the bulk of the
doctors were on the side of vivisection. They are not nearly
so unanimous in their support of it as they once were in
favour of bleeding for almost every conceivable form of
disease, and we now know who were right, the medical
faculty or the general public. As for the quotations made
from Tyndall and Darwin they signify very little.
Neither in pathology nor theology can we regard these
distinguished authors as experts or authorities. Of both
one and the other would I speak with the greatest respect
within their proper sphere. To my mind, indeed the great
naturalist is one of the most pathetic ﬁgures in this 19th
Christian century. A patient sufferer, of most gentle
disposition, clothed with humility, and animated with
the love of truth, he stands forth as a solemn warning against
the passionate and exclusive pursuit of those studies which
have given such an impetus to vivisection. As time went on
he lost his sense of beauty, his delight in music, his apprecia-
tion of literature, and sank into the condition of a mere
observing machine. What more he had lost in the process,
who can say? His own confession warrants me in maintaining
that he cannot. be accepted as a guide by men whose business
it is to promote the spiritual perfection of the whole human
race. But enough. God is revealed not by the microscope,
the observatory, or the scalpel, but by the best that we know
of the best men in their best moments; and the best that we
know of them would cry out in pity, and protest in moral in-
dignation against any one of the horrors described by Mr. Ring.

 




 

7

That the compassion which makes us like to God should be
impaired would, in my judgment, be an inﬁnitely worse calamity
than the spread of cancer, or rabies, or consumption. It is
fatuity—

“ Proptevr vitam ’vivendi perclére causas.”

It is on moral grounds that I base my opposition to the
torturers and all their works; but none the less am I
persuaded that the God of Grace is the God of Nature; and
that if mankind can be led to seek His kingdom and His
righteousness ﬁrst, all things else that are good for us, whether
increased knowledge or greater power, or more vigorous
health, or longer life, will be added unto us.

[NOTE.——PREBENDARY GRIER informs me that M. Pasteur’s
supposed cure for splenic fever, or anthrax, was mentioned at the
Conference. The facts in regard to this are as follow :—The
discovery has never been applied to mankind as was claimed at the
Lichﬁeld Conference. It has been applied to cattle, and has caused
their death; and Dr. Lutaud, in his work Etudes sur La Rage
(Paris, 35, Boulevard Haussmann) gives cases in which Pasteur
has paid compensation to owners for loss of their stock after
“preventive” inoculation With his vaccine. Moreover, Dr. Klein,
for the Local Government Board, tested the remedy in England,
and pronounced it to be “perfectly ineffective.”——BENJ. BRYAN.]

 

 




A SELECTION OF THE PUBLICATIONS
Published or on Sale by

THE VICTORIA STREET AND INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR
THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION.

 

BOOKS.

Physiological Fallacies, including a
refutation of the claims of Harvey,
Hunter, Owen, Spencer Wells, Fer-
rier, Pasteur, and others, 1 Vol. 8vo.,
5s., cloth.

The Modern Rack, a Selection Of
Articles by Miss F. P. Cobbe
(Sonnenschien), 2s. 6d., cloth.

The British Vivisectors’ Directory; A
Black Book, Is, cloth.

In Memoriam, the late Earl of Shaftes-
bury (speeches), 1s.

Brain Surgery and Vivisection, Re-
printed from the Times, Is.

The Case Against Vivisection, by Mark
Thornhill, Esq. Published by Messrs.
Hatchard and 00., 1s. ; cloth 1s. 6d.

PAMPHLETS AND LEAFLETS.

Speech of the late Bishop of Oxford,
May, 1883, 1d.; 10d. per doz.; 6s.
per 100.

The Lord Chief Justice on Vivisection,
2d. 3 1s. 8d. per doz.; 12s. per 100.

BY FRANCES POWER COBBE.

Higher Expediency, 2d.; 1s. 8d. per

doz. ; 12s. per 100. ‘

The Study of Physiology as a Branch
Of Education, 1d.; 10d. per doz.;
6s. per 100.

Right of Tormenting, 1d. ; 10d. per
doz. ; 6s. per 100.

Have Pity (Leaﬂet), %d. ; 5d. per doz. ;
3s. per 100.

Tender Vivisection, %d. ; 5d. per doz. ;
3s. per 100.

Extracts from Minutes of Royal Com-
mission, 3d.; 2s. 6d. per doz. ; 18s.
per 100.

Comments on the Debate Of April 4,
1883, 3d.; 2s. 6d. per doz.; 18s. per
100.

Light in Dark Places, with 20 Illustra-
tions (and Suppt., Light in English
Dark Places, by B. Bryan), Gratis.

Lady Students and Vivisection, 1d. ;
10d. per doz. ; 6s. per 100.

Four Reasons for Supporting the Bill
for the Total Abolition of Vivisection.
%d.; 5d. per doz. ; 3s. per 100.

The Moral Aspects of Vivisection, ﬁfth
edition, 3d. ; 2s. 6d. per doz.; 188.
per 100.

 

PRICE LIST.

The Uselessness of Vivisection, by Pro-
fessor Lawson Tait, F.R.C.S. (New
Edition, with Notes), 6d.

Anmsthetics and Curare, éd. ; 5d. per
doz ; 3s. per 100. '

The Scientist at the Bedside, by Mrs.
Hoggan, M.D., 1d. ; 10d. per doz.;
6s. per 100.

Dr. Bell Taylor on Vivisection, ad;
5d. per doz.; 3s. per 100.

The Torture Chamber of Science, by
Baron Weber, Aid.

A list of Licensed Vivisectors Holding
Appointments at the various Hos-
pitals, Gratis.

Commentary on the Cruelty to Animals
Act, 1876, by Hon. B. Coleridge,
(2.0., M.P., 3d.; 2s. 6d. per doz.;
18s. per 100.

Weighed and Found Wanting-32 so-
called Discoveries disposed of in a
few words, ~§~d.; 5d. per doz.; 3s.
per 100.

The Delusiveness of the Vivisection
Act and Of the Inspector’s Reports,
by S. E. Clark, 3d.; 2s. 6d. per doz. ;
18s. per 100.

Horsley’s Operation for Trephining the
Spine. How did Vivisection Help
It? by Dr. Edward Berdoe, 3d.;
2s. 6d. per doz.; 18s. per 100.

The Great Inoculator; or, Pasteur and
Hydrophobia, A Lecture at Leeds,
by Dr. Edward Berdoe, 3d.; 2s. 6d.
per doz. ; 18s. per 100.

Bishop of Manchester on Cruelty to
Animals, 1d. per doz.

Pasteur’s Prophylactic in its True
Light (Ur. Chas. Bell Taylor and
Dr. Thos. M. Dolan), 3d.; 2s. 6d.
per doz. ; 18s. per 100.

Bishop Barry and Canon Wilberforce
on the Morality of Vivisection, 1d.;
10d. per doz. ; 6s. per 100.

Twelve Years’ Trial of the Vivisection
Act, 3d.; 2s. 6d. per doz.; 18s.
per 100.

The late Cardinal Archbishop of West-
minster on Vivisection, 3d.; 2s. 6d.
per doz.; 18s. per 100.

The Futility Of Experiments with
Drugs on Animals, by Dr. Berdoe, 6d.

Rabies and Hydrophobia, Pasteurian
Claims and Statistics Refuted, 1d. ;
10d. per doz. ; 6s. per 100.

Influenza. Another “Great Discovery,”
by Benjn. Bryan, é—d. ; 5d. per doz.;
3s. per 100.

 

OFFICES :—20, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.

BENJAMIN BRYAN, Secretary.

 




