2i5

MmuMcTaggm'f-s Ethicsww . 365

eral tendency to think that the presence of pleasure in certain l?
states of consciousness very much adds to their value; and from
this fact it is commonly inferred, as by Mr. McTaggart, that .

.—-\

@ﬂfﬁﬁfﬂf has a very high value. Yet, if it be even possiér"
ble that the value of a whole should differ from the sum of the fi-
values of its parts, the inference is utterly invalid. And can

any other fact than this, that pleasure ngejn adds greatly to the

value of a whole, be urged in defense of the proposition that

great pleasure has admittedly great value? On the contrary,

the supporters of that prOposition have notoriously great diﬁﬁl"
culty in reconciling their Opinion with the verdict of Common
Sense, that many states containing the most intense pleasure v
are nevertheless of little‘value, if not positively bad. There El
will, of course, be no such difﬁculty, if the principle, that the l
value of a whole may differ from the sum of the value of its \_/ §
parts, be admitted; but then also the contention that pleasure
has very great value loses all its plausibility. The question.:
must now be settled by the consideration whether the existence
of pleasure, by itself, apart from any thing else whatever that
we are able to distinguish from it, would even in the greatest
quantities, have any great value; and it is certainly not para-1’
doxical to deny this. On the contrary it seems self-evident
that its value, if it have any, would be very small indeed.

" l Assuming, then, that the value of pleasure, even in large
amounts, is very small indeed, we may proceed to our second
question, and ask: Is it true that, in most, practical cases, the /
course which gives most pleasure will also give most good on
the whole? Is pleasure, after all, a correct criterion of mor-iT 3?
ality? What is the nature of practical cases, in general? '

Q I I think the ﬁrst answer that should be given to these qua-A
tions is an admission of very thorough ignorance. Until the
subject has been investigated far more conclusively than has
ever yet been done, no conclusion should be asserted dogmat?
ically. I shall conﬁne myself to certain generalities, which /

:nﬂ.m‘:.lhu..~‘ .- 1 -\

‘- can"... ‘ Managua:

 

f‘.

 

 

 

seem to make against the conclusion that pleasure is the best
available criterion.

(*9 1 In the ﬁrst place, it seems to me that in most cases, where ‘
a man will actually ask himself with anxiety: “Which is the ;__13 e
VO‘IIWWT" 25 ,,

 

 




3,6,6. . 7 , International-Journal of Ethics.

right course?” it is impossible to ascertain, with any certainty,
gjﬂtﬁgzr which course will in the immediate future bring most
good-on the whole 99; which will bring most pleasure. On the

I ﬁrst point,as we have seen, I have Mr. McTaggart with me; and
on the second, as we have also seen, I have his remarkable fail-f“
ure to give any instance to the contrary. But this state of
things (if it is the state of things) may well be due to the fact
that such cases are only those in which Common Sense does
not give a clear decision. It is, in general, only where this is
the case, that a man will ask himself the question; and, if we
assume that Common Sense morality has decided rightly upon
most of the cases, where our ignorance allows a right judg?“
ment, it will follow that in the cases, which we cannot decide,
the difference in value between the alternative results will
probably not be very great. That Common Sense has gener-Ti
ally decided rightly where it has decided, may, I think, be
proved: and it may, at least, be fairly assumed here, since most
moralists are. agreed about it, at all events as regards the
Common Sense of Christendom, and Mr. McTaggart is cer':
(tainly no exception. It only, then, remains to ask whether, in
{the vast number of cases where Common Sense is clear, and in
lthe few, in which perhaps a conclusion can be drawn by a philo?
Ophical examination of Common Sense, the course preferred

ill give most pleasure; and whether, therefore, in the few

es where we can perhaps see a balance of pleasure on one

ide and cannot see a balance of good, pleasure may be safely
hsed as a criterion. ‘

Ml Now the question of the relation of the hedonic criterion to
Common Sense has been very fully discussed by Professor
Sidgwick, in the interest of the view, which Mr. McTaggart
agrees with me in rejecting and the falsehood of which I have
claimed to be self-evident, that pleasure is the sole good. It
does not seem probable that a much better case for the agree?
ment of hedonistic judgments with those of Common Sense
could be made out, than Professor Sidgwick has given us; and
it must be admitted that even on this case the verdict remains
very problematical. But, assuming ‘that Professor Sidgwick'S
verdict is correct, what exactly does it state? No more than

 

 

 




MimMmeggarﬂ‘s"-’*Eth13t‘if."*‘"‘"“""‘*' r W~ .. 367‘

\“~. -. ,,

iii/(this: That in most cases there is no very manifest divergence
between the course which would give most pleasure and that
which is recommended by Common Sense. This conclusion ,
is certainly problematical; but, if it were true, it would be sufﬁ»?~ /
cient for Professor Sidgwick’s point: for it would show that ‘/
Common Sense could not be seen, in a majority of cases, to £936"
gig with hedonic judgments. But, even if it be true, is it suﬂif‘
cient to show that pleasure is a safe gitggiqn, when admittedly
pleasure is not only not the sole good but is one of the least
among goods? This is quite a different question; and it seems
to me that. for this purpose Professor Sidgwick’s conclusion is
139: sufﬁcient. For it does not assert that in a majority of
cases the hedonic judgments manifestly agree with those of
Common Sense: on the contrary we may fairly assume that
the number of cases in which the two do obviously agree is no
greater than that in which they obviously disagree; or, in
other words, that Mr. McTaggart’s fourth class of cases is
about equal in number to his ﬁrst class. He cannot, therefore,
argue that, since the pleasure—criterion is correct in a majority
of the cases which are clear, it will be safe to use it in those
which are uncertain; for Professor Sidgwick’s conclusion does
not maintain that it is correct even in a majority of the cases
which are Egg); -We have then to consider by themselves the
large number of cases, in which, for one reason or another, we
cannot tell whether a course which gives most pleasure does
or does not coincide with that which Common Sense declares
to be best on the whole: it is only by adding these to the cases,
where the two certainly coincide, that Professor Sidgwick
gets, as a large majority among all cases, those in which there
is no obvious disagreement between Hedonism and Common.
Sense. Now among these cases a large number will certainly
be indeterminate for the reason that it is not plain which
course gives a balance of pleasure; and these obviously cannot
affect at all our judgment as to the correctness of the h-edonic
criterion. There remain Only the cases, which, although they
do’ present a balance of pleasure on one side, are unclear be:
cause Common Sense does not declare whiclg is best on the
whole. These are the cases which form Mr. McTaggart’s

c‘
x. *3
w.

 

 

 

 

 




36,8. ,1 , ~—w-»-~z--«--A«Inter-nationalJournal. ofEthzcs ~.

second and third class; and it is plain that the prob;
ability with regard to them is that the number of
cases in which the hedonic course does, and in which
it does not, coincide with that which is best on the
whole will be equal in number. It was pointed out that in these
cases there is, on Mr. McTaggart’s principles, no rational solu:
tion, since, wherever one course shows a decisive superiority in

3 one good (be it pleasure or any other), the other course will

show a decisive superiority in some other. That there is, for

ted; but, if we now take into account the fact that pleasure is
a very slight good, I think it may be seen that pleasure is
likely to be a mag criterion than many others. For if we
use as our criterion a superiority in any good more valuable
than pleasure, the chances that our choice will coincide with
the course that is best on the Whole will still be equal; but, in
the cases where it does not coincide, the gravity of our error
is likely to be considerably less, since we shall at any rate have
secured a good of considerable value. Of course, it may be
said that the course which shows a superiority in pleasure will
generally also show a superiority in some more valuable good.
: But it cannot be assumed that this is always the case. And,
\for practical purposes, the important point to insist on is that,
if pleasure be a comparatively small good, we cannot safely be
lsatisﬁed that we have chosen a course, as good as we can see \
Lany to be, if we have chosen on the ground that it offers a bal-
/ance of pleasure. For to adopt pleasure as a criterion, on the
ground that it is as likely to be right as any other, means that
in doubtful cases, where with great hesitation we decide that
there is probably a superiority of pleasure on one side, we shall
give the preference to that decision over an equally doubtful
judgment that there is probably a superiority in other goods on
the other side. The immense majority of cases are cases of
such hesitating judgment; and, if pleasure be a small good, it
is certain that to give'this preference to the hesitating hedonic
judgment will probably be wrong.
i ‘ i If this be so, then, if we must adopt any criterion at all, to
adopt as such qny‘considerable good will be more likely to lead [3“; ‘

 

 

 

Ll?

 




tMtrgllcfaggartis-Ethics.~~ = ' 369

us right than to ad0pt pleasure. It may be said that of no
other single good will there be so often a distinct superiority
on one side as of pleasure. But, even if this be so, it. will still
be better to use different kinds of good as criteria in the differl‘
ent cases where they are applicable than to use pleasure in all.
And ﬁnally it may well be doubted whether the calculation of
pleasures does give us a deﬁnite result in more cases than the
, attempt to balance the total of goods on each side. That it
does so is generally maintained on the plausible ground that to
determine the effects of our actions on a single kind of good
must be easier than to determine the effects on all together.
But we have seen that Mr. McTaggart gives us no reason to
think that the calculation of pleasure does in most cases give
us a deﬁnite result; and against thea prion' argument that such
a calculation must be less complicated than the other, we have
to urge the fact, which is generally neglected, that in this other
we are dealing with quantities most of which exhibit a very
decided difference in size. The greater pumbex of the terms
which we have to take into account may well be counterbal?“
anced by the magnitude of their differences in respect of the
relevant kind of quantityf-namely quantity of intrinsic value.
And, indeed, it seems, in practice, to be just as easy to decide
that two whole sets of results are nearly equal in total value,
as to decide that they are nearly equal in pleasure—value: and in
practical cases, as has been said, such a judgment is all that we
can hope for. In the vast majority of cases, cases in which we
do not raise a question, Common Sense clearly has no doubt
that the total of good on the one side is unquestionably greater
than on the other; and the philosopher who argues that there is
a superiority of pleasure on the same side cannot avoid bearing
witness to the clearness of this judgment, and generally bears
witness also to his own conviction that the judgment is correct.
Mr. McTaggart himself does not fail to give indications of the
ease with which he can judge totals of good other than
.pleasure: “The happiness a man gives is” he can see “generally
more closely proportioned to the development of his ideals than
is the happiness he enjoys” (p. 125). In ‘any case, whether _
it be easier or not, it is by endeavoring to compare totals of 1 7

d

512* :m.‘5'.5~3£!?’r1‘3;3‘? W‘Me :m‘rsermmw . -.-.

“ -—m~.:-erm -, ‘ 5m $222:

 

 

 

 




»540 " ” Intematibnal Journal of Ethics.

different goods and not of pleasure only, that men always have
attacked and do attack their practical cases; and most men ﬁnd
it easy to see a decisive superiority on one side. They may,
perhaps, be as often wrong as right; but, until a further philO-f'
SOphical investigation has settled the point, there is reason to
think that, since the value of pleasure is‘small, when they are
wrong, they are less wrong, than if they had taken pleasure
for their guide.

 

G-.--—E. a MOORE.
TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE.-

 

 




360mb» International Journal of Ethics.

be less than it is, and that the contemplation of dunghills could
not give as much, is, as we have also seen, irrelevant.
3' i (2) Mr. McTaggart does not recognize that he does admit
I the possibility of knowing, with regard to two goods as hetero?
geneous as pleasure and, say, love, that one is greater than the
' other. That he does so is obscured by the fact that he treats
all other goods as if they were merely one, under the name “def“
velopment of ideals.” Yet it is obvious that when he says “one
man’s ideals may be lower than another’s” he means not merely
that the one man admires the same things, only less strongly
or less often than the other, but that. to admire one kind of
thing is worse than to admire another. This being so, it seems
unreasonably arbitrary to maintain that with regard to pleas-i“
ure alone we can make no judgment of this kind. Pleasure
itself is merely one among ideals; and there seems no greater
difﬁculty in deciding that a man whose education has led him to
regard mere pleasure as the Supreme Good,w instead of so reé’ \
garding, let us say, Mr. McTaggart’s Absolute has suffered
a deterioration, than in making the same judgment of a man
whose education has led him to prefer “Philistinism” to “cul:
ture.”
i (3) Mr. McTaggart shows a considerable confusion as to
the ground; of his contention that no other good is ever cer?
tainly greater than any amount of pleasure. I have just
i pointed out that he does not seem aware of his admission that
\’ we can compare the values of heterogeneous goods. In spite
of this admission, he seems to rest his contention with regard
to pleasure on the proposition that we ggyl’ﬂ. And he actually
states that we cannot in the most emphatic manner: it is “inf;
possible,” he says (p. 123), “to compare” _any two “elements
\) gof the good with any hope of discovering which” is “the most
idesirable.” This statement is certainly in ﬂat contradiction
twith his admission that we can tell whether our ideals have or
have not been deve10ped; and yet it is solely to it that he a1)?
ipeals in support of the doctrine that pleasure cannot be com?
' pared with other goods: he only adds that pleasure and devel‘:
opment exhibit “tllggzgqtest heterogeneity” which is, in itself, ..
by no means apparent (p. 123). But the confusion to which {it ‘3 .

\

 

 

 

 




 

 

d
, n
‘

“m.—

i.
u

1’" Hi 3 MR MCIAGGART’S ETHICS/V" ,1. " t i

g p ;, \Tfﬁf‘ subject of this article is the general ethical principles
"3 maintained by Mr. McTaggart in his recent book, entitled

“Studies in Hegehan Cosmology.” « Four chapters of this v

book are devoted to ethical subjects; and all of them certainly

contain valuable contributions to the subjects with which they

deal. Three of them, however, those on Punishment, on Sin,

and on The Conception of Society as an organism, .I shall not

have space to discuss. The chapter on “The Supreme Good

and the Moral Criterion” gives us Mr. McTaggart’s funda5

mental principles; and this chapter by itself supplies matter

enough to deserve very full consideration.

Of the ﬁve metaphysical chapters, which constitute the
greater part of the book, it is only necessary here to say that
their chief content is a very elaborate and original argument

i in favor of the unusually deﬁnite conclusion that the Uni-T;

verse consists exclusively of a number of ﬁnite persons, in;- j

cluding ourselves, which exist timelessly and whose conscious?" i
ness is solely occupied with love for one another. This conclu- I
sion it was necessary to state because Mr. McTaggart’s two
fundamental ethical principles are contained in the assertions:

(I) That this state of things, which Mr. McTaggart holds to
be the 5016 reality, is also the Supreme Good; and (2) that the ,
best means of deciding what course of action it is right: for us
to pursue is, in the majority of cases, to consider which course
will bring about the greatest balance of pleasure over pain
“immediately; or in the comparatively near future which we
can predict with reasonable certainty” (p. 99). ,..

C‘Jl Now it should be noted, to start with, that these two pro; ( ,
positions are so related that if the one is true the other must be v'
false. This follows from Mr. McTaggart’s metaphysical con-
clusion that the sole reality is timeleSs. For to say that one . K?! E’ ‘

' .course of action is better than another is to imply that it either "l 54

._, ,

J’ 4
I ‘e
.5.)

 

,2

ent‘rxzvnm‘m- .n"'(‘j’..‘ H.-..._ - :v-':3j-_- «-

 

nw'm ‘ L; 1* \14 '

 

" ITS/1 ‘ i - ‘BY John McTaggart Ellis McTaggart, M. A., Fellow and Lecturer of
.- Trinity College, in Cambridge. Cambridge: At the University Press, 1901.

 

 

 

Q
6‘

 




 

J

.342. . International Journal of Ethics. .

is. itself or causes to exist, some real good, which, but for its
existence, would not have existed. But assuredly our actions
neither are themselves, nor can produce anything except the
existence of something or other in time. Accordingly, if what
exists timelessly is the sole reality, neither our actions nor
what they produce can be real; and the unreal existence of one
thing rather than another, even if it have any meaning, can
certainly not have any value. This contradiction is, perhaps,
concealed from Mr. McTaggart by the fact that, following or?
dinary usage, he speaks of the thing which is real or exists, and
3 not of its existence or reality as the good to be attained, while
l he certainly conceives it possible that one and the same thing
5 may exist both timelessly and in time. But it is, I think, plain
that what we judge to be good is always that a thing of a cer?‘
tain sort should be real or exist; and it is certainly only the
existence of certain things in time, not these things as they are
apart from any existence or in their timeless existence, that our
actions either are or affect. The point may, perhaps, be
brought out most clearly by reference to the other form in
which Mr. McTaggart expresses the doctrine that what exists
timelessly also exists in timeTiTnamely that it “manifests” itself
in time. For it is certainly only the manifestations, as such,
that our actions can affect; and I contend that no manifesta?’
tion can be better than another or good at all, since none, as
. distinguished from the reality of which it is the manifestation,
has any reality whatever. And even if the principle that, in or?
der to be good, a thing must be real, be not sufﬁciently evident;
the contradiction will still follow from the fact that Mr.
cTaggart uses Supreme Good in the sense of sole or com?
lete Good. For if the timeless reality is in itself the sole Good.
't follows that the fact of its also having one manifestation
{rather than another, or any manifestation at all (even if these
I

; suppositions do not contradict themselves) cannot be gay,

good. - ,
C lThis contradiction, however, is only between Mr. McTag‘
f gart’s Metaphysics and his Ethics; and it may be that it is his
Metaphysics which are wrong. It is only the metaphysial
assertion that the sole Good exists timelessly which leaves no

 

 

 




-7 r’l

w w—ﬁw .ﬁ..-"

 

 

 

 

Mr. ilIcTaggart’sEthics. '~ - - '- ' 343 ‘

2‘ a?

possibility that the existence of anything in time could be any
good whatever. Mr. McTaggart’s "ethical assertion about the
Supreme Good, namely that it would consist in the existence
of that, which he actually holds to be the sole existent, may
still be true, whether it does exist or not; and it is at least coné
sistent with his sec? ethical principle about the nature of the
moral criterion.

‘15-" \ We have, then, to consider the ethical assertion that the ex:
istence of a number of persons, loving one another perfectly,
would be perfectly good, and that nothing else can be any good
whatever. And it may be noted again at once, that, if this be
true, no action can,be either right or wrong except as it tends
to produce or to prevent the existence of such a state of things.
Nothing that happens, until this state of things is completely
realized, can be any good whatever in itself; it can only have
value as a my; to such complete realization. As such a
means, indeed, it may have value; and therefore, Mr. McTag-F" ‘
gart’s second ethical principle is consistent with this his ﬁrst.
But Mr. McTaggart’s view of what actually makes our ac?
tions right is not consistent with it. For he holds that we
cannot tell whether any course of action, rather than another, '
will tend “to advance or retard the eventual complete realiza?

tion of the complete good” (pp. 98799) ; whereas we can tell
that one course of action is better than another; and it is so, i
if it “will bring about,” in that near future deﬁned above, “the
state which conforms as closely as possible to that perfection”
(p. 99). Mr. McTaggart does, then, hold that the immediate
realization of “something more or less like what he asserts to i
be the sole (3on is in itself a good; and, if this be true, it fol-7“
lows that what he asserts to be the sole Good, is not the sole

Good.

:5- lAccordingly the fundamental principle of Mr. McTaggart’sl

Ptqctical ethics, namely that one action is better than an-}
other, if it will bring about, in a near. future, the state which \‘
conforms as closely as possible to perfection, compels us to i
deny both (I) his two metaphysical doctrines (a) that only the ,5
Absolute is real, (b) that only the Absolute is good ; and (2)
his ethical doctrine that only the eventual realization of the

 

 

:1uw'r” '13.?“ In. -. ,n v- - :- rui-n". ‘ ._ ’ 'lfv"
,"-‘ ’4', -. .'-“ , ; '_ '- . . . ., -
.3.’ I”. ,.:~.-: ~. ~ .. -.' . a“ ~ v‘ ' ' .

. 1‘

. 'fDOL‘:
44:: Wiv'

: ‘ I ﬂy
.. .ow .'
T£:.:zuf' .

J .. s *1, ,. m”. . t. - I
l - ‘n-A '- —. ~51“
.. “a”: n“ , t....-l.“:.19...




3,4,4 ,, .Intexnatiomiloumal- of Ethics.

Absolute would be good. We still, however, have left the
ethical assertion that the state of things described would be

_ Pfjectly good, in some sense which does not deny that other

‘ things are good too, but, on the contrary, implies the corollary

. that they are ‘more or less good according as they more or less

l resemble it.

‘7}. In this assertion we have the fundamental principle of Mr.
McTaggart’s Ethicsi—his doctrine of the Supreme Good; and
it is not an assertion! which we can be expected to accept with?
out argument Nor does Mr. McTaggart ask us so to accept
it. He professes to give reasons for it. But whereas the as”

l sertion itself is only doubtful, the reasons he gives for it be,

‘tray the utmost confusion on the most essential points of

.. ethical reasoning.

«A‘l It is, in the ﬁrst place, remarkable that Mr. McTaggart
should suppose such a proposition capable of being proved in
three sentences. But, when we examine the supposed proof,
we ﬁnd still further reason for astonishment. It runs as fol;
lows: I .

f“; 5, “In the reality so deﬁned, every conscious being‘fand there
are no other beingsT-will express all his individuality in one
end which will truly and adequately express it. The fulﬁll-,5"
ment of such an end as this would give satisfaction, not par¥
tial and temporary, but complete and eternal. And since each
individual ﬁnds the whole universe in harmony with his end,
it will necessarily follow that the end is fulﬁlled” ( p. 96).

'3‘ iMr. McTaggart argues, then, that the Absolute must be
perfectly good, begauge it would give complete satisfaction to
every being in \it. That is to say he assumes as his fundamental
principle that whatever universe would give complete satisfaci'
tion to all the beings in it (no matter what they were satisﬁed
with) would be perfectly good. This principle certainly seems
far from selﬂevident; and moreover it directly contradicts
what is implied in the principle, which it is offered to prove,

\ namely, that the Absolute is better than any other conceivable
Universe. We are, then, naturally prompted to ask what com
siderations can have induced Mr. McTaggart to be satisﬁed

c.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

F

L

 

 

(r; ;.‘ .v-

:fwiith‘so extraordinary a piece of reasoning; and indications are

1W7..1McTaggwt’s Ethics.-... ' . - 9 ~ 34 5

not wanting.

Cl (1) The natural meaning of the argument would be that

complete satisfaction itself was the sole ood; since, when we
say that a thing is good -9359?!“ it has Acertain property, we
commonly mean merfly that since it contains this property it
contains SOmething hat has intrinsic value. It is, of course,
possible that all things which contain a certain property are
themselves good as wholes; but, if this be meant, it is a miss
take to say that they are good solely because they possess ,this
property. It will be true to say.“ EH51 they would not be good,
unless they possessed it; but for the same rascn it will also be
true to say that they would not be good unless they also pos?
sessed their other constituents: since in both cases the judg-3
ment rests on the fact that it is the thing as a whole which
is good, and that it would not be the whole it is unless it had all
the parts it has. Now it is plain that Mr. McTaggart means

us to understand that his Absolutego whole is good: he imam:

diately goes on to say: “The supreme good is not pleasure as
such but this particular pleasant state” (p. 96) : and later we
ﬁnd him using language which implies that it is good not only
because it contains complete satisfaction but also because the,
ideals which it satisﬁes are perfect (p. 119); This being the

case it is at least misleading to argue here that it is good be")

cause it contains complete satisfaction; though such an exprese"
sion might be excused if it were a self—evident truth that all

universes which contained complete satisfaction were equally

good, and that all good universes had this and no other prop-f5"
erty in common. But it becomes inexcusable, if we assume!
that Mr. McTaggart intends us to understand that the Abso-s :
lute is better than any other conceivable Universe: if, of two
wholes which contain a common element, one is better than the
other, it is obviously absurd to maintain that the former owes
011,11: goodness to the fact that it possesses the element which
is also possessed by the latter. We are therefore, ‘I think, justi:
ﬁed in assuming that Mr. McTaggart was inﬂuenced by the
idea that complete satisfaction is itself the sole goo'ﬂ: the more

l.

50, as he expressly states elsewhere that “It is only in respect A"; a -.

/

\._‘ ~r . - ' ‘

I

c~w
\ we. ..,- .m—

4

“Tamra-:1“ -.. . .

I . ul‘n A‘. v- s

‘1: re

- ' —-§1.‘.#t$-i'£

~§‘\ I’D. '

. .- ' ".43. ,1. . .—‘ ,4 '
"“5“.“ .‘k‘; d" H'sr' "4
“u --3....¢1-!;-L»3.Anu~i-

.._
at»; n'.

,
‘t.
a, .‘L ‘4

'u-._ . . yr
I‘.‘ —.

.'“ 3.5, 1 .
.. .‘ ‘.‘.V,A . . . : A,
.1. .39....» 1.1., My - ....

1.31%

.. ,
1:15:22 '.

e #4111.in

 

19




3.4Lé,,,,,._ . Intemnatéonal J oumalm f E thics.

of the element of feeling in it that any state can be deemed to
have intrinsic value” (p. 261 ). Mr. McTaggart is plainly un+
aware that this is inconsistent with the doctrine that the Ab;
solute is better than any other conceivable universe, which
'might contain the same element of feeling, tbepqpu‘se the ideals
realized in it are also perfect.
. i (2) But there is reason to think that Mr. McTaggart is also
inﬂuenced by another fundamental confusion with regard to
the principles of ethical reasoning. It is possible that when he
says the Absolute is perfectly good, because it would give com: '
plete satisfaction, he means us to complete the argument by
gadding"‘and because nothing else could.” The use of language
’is such that it does seem very plauSible to argue: Since com”:
plete satisfaction is necessary to perfection, the only thing
1 which could give it must be better than anything which would
" not. And Mr. McTaggart actually does suggest this reason
1 for a principle, which he strongly emphasizes in Chap. IX, and
~. which, taken strictly, is inconsistent with the argument we are
now considering. In Chap. IX we are told that it is not the
satisfaction of all desires, but only of those which are “funda?
mental demands and aspirations of our nature” (pp. 259, 266),
that is necessary to the perfection of the universe. Now it is
obvious that here again Mr. McTaggart is contradicting his
principle that all universes which give complete satisfaction to
all the beings in them would be perfectly and equally good,
: and asserting that a universe which completely satisﬁed some
p; kind of desires .would be better than one which satisﬁed others.-
But instead of asserting that the satisfaction of some desires
is better than that of others, because: the former are directed
to more perfect ideals, he seems to suggest that it is better
bqqquse they are more fundamental. Nor does he anywhere try
to prove (what would be extremely difficult) that all desires
for what is good are in fact fundamental (whatever that may
mean) and that all fundamental desires are in fact desires for
what is good. But he does suggest that the reason why funda?‘
mental desires are to be preferred is beme {“their realization
is essential to permanent harmony: (p. 266); or, in other
words, because we .quld not be completely and permanently

 

 

 




Mr. McTaggarﬁs.Ethics....__.. .. . w 347

a

‘

4

Rsatisﬁed with the objects of any others (p. 259). It would “'3

seem, then, that Mr. McTaggart is inﬂuenced by the plausible ’
argument that the only thing which £9,314 give complete satis?‘ ‘ g:
faction, is therefore better than anything else. And yet this : 5"”-
argument is merely an instance of the very fallacy against !
Which he rightly prote ts elsewhere (pp. 96, 266) in the most )

emphatic mannerrl—h direct inference from “is" to “ought”! , .I 5,
Because the nature of the Universe is such that only certain 1 ii
kinds of things could, give complete satisfaction, we are there; 4;
fgrg entitled to say that it is better than others in which a diff“ i

ferent natural law would allow us to be completely satisﬁed 5;,
with other kinds of things! .We might just as well say that ~. I {‘7
because in this world certain evils are the only means of ob-,
taining certain goods, ,thiemfarg this world is better than any ,
other in which the same goods might be obtained without the i

‘a‘v’ft
‘3

 

 

 

aid of any evils! It is, of course, better (L? a means that we .I 3
should undergo the greatest evils, if the constitution of the :
Universe is so bad that by that means we can obtain greater ' ft
goods than by any other: but it can be better ggopmeam only.

And similarly the empirical truth (and it can be no more) that a

only certain desires can be permanently satisﬁed may be a rea?

son for regarding the satisfaction of those desires'as the best \/ 2
thing that we can get; but it can be no reason for regarding a i;
Universe in which only those desires are permanently satis-i

ﬁed as therefore supremely good. _

l O l (3) But ﬁnally we have to think that Mr. McTag/t‘ .3
- gart is also inﬂuenced by a third error. His words .
i might be interpreted as meaning not that, since the Ab? i
5 solute would give complete satisfaction, it is therefore also In
supremely good; but that to call it supremely good is simply / :,
another way of saying that it gives complete satisfaction. And, g

in fact, one of the many errors on which his whole argument #34

in Chap. IX is based seems to be the vicious traditional as? 3
Sumption that the distinction between what is and what ought i

. to‘be is identical with that between what is known and what id
§ is willed-,l—that “the difference of meaning between the predi+" ' ’1;
? cates ‘true’ and ‘good’ ” is the same as that beta/ecu the predié ' ;.
cates.“kn0wn” and “willed” (p. 268). Thus on pp. 2667 we izlia h;

p r- "2:.

if?

.
' .,-
.v ‘ I". a

 




“348“,", , W. ,, .Iiuternatianallournd. of Ethics.

ﬁnd treated as if they were identical in meaning the two state; '
ments: “If no amount of ‘ought’ can produce the slightest ‘is,’
it is no less true that no amount of ‘is’ can produce the slight?“
est‘ ‘ought,’ ” and “While our desires must serve in the kingdom
of the true, they rule in the kingdom of the good.” It is diﬂi-j
cult to imagine that, when he wrote this passage, Mr. McLE"
Taggart was very clearly aware of any difference between the
propositions “This is good” and “This is desired”; since, if
there be such a. difference, it seems only too obvious that what
i we desire may just as easily be bad as it may be unreal.
‘~’- l Mr. McTaggart’s treatment of the fundamental question of
\/ Ethics, the question, What is best in itself? can hardly, then,
be censured too severely. He seems not to have realized that it
is a diﬂicult question at all. His answers to it are both an]?
biguous and mutually inconsistent; and the reasons which he
gives for them both mutually inconsistent and fallacious.
\ It: { But his argument in favor of the doctrine that a calculation
\ of pleasures and pains will generally give us a correct criterion
of what we ought to do, deserves considerably more respect.
It is here rather the truth of Mr. McTaggart’s premises than
the cogency‘of his ratsoning, which may be called in question.
3’ i One part of the argument (pp. 108-1 18) is devoted to point?“
ing out, what is certainly true, that quantities of pleasure £93;
\’ be compared with success. It is possible, Mr. McTaggart arT
gues, to know that the amount of pleasure which we get from
one thing is greater than that which we get from another and.
not only this, but also that the amount got from one thing is
so, much greater than that got from another that, even if we
were to get the latter twice, we should not have had so much
pleasure as if we got the former only once. All this is un-T‘
questionably true, whatever may be the difﬁculties of deciding
precisely what is meant by saying that one pleasure is more
than twice as great as another or greater than the sum of ﬁve
others; and Mr. McTaggart justly points out that exactly the
same difﬁculties must be incurred by any system of Ethics
since any such system must hold that we know the gglg‘erof one
thing or of one set of things to bé‘greater than the sum of the
values of another set.

 

 

 

 

 




.199

, J ﬁlnjl’IcTaggwl’sEthws 349" ‘ J i
eta . . , . .+ :'
/\ So much, then, must be granted ; but this 13 only a prelimie 4
nary. Mr. McTaggart’s main thesis in this chapter is what he 3‘,
expresses in the proportion: That the calculation of pleasures / 5
and pains is both, in general, a ggggzejet criterion of how we
ought to act, and also the only available criterion (p. 127).
The question whether this thesis is true is certainly of the
utmost importance/Vand this question I now propose to con-:-
sider at length. ‘
5'3 i In the ﬁrst place, great care is needed to distinguish exactly
'what it is that Mr. McTaggart means to maintain. For he

an” .-
...— a

_. .muﬂnnt—

....,’,..._._ a."

 

 

u. ‘4

course of action will produce a greater balance of pleasure than
any other, the results of that course will be the best. He ad:
mits (I) that, even where we ought to choose the course that
will give the greatest pleasure, the total results of that course
maybe worse (p. 124, “third case”) ; (2) that in some cases it /
is impossible to decide whether we ought to choose the course
that will give the greatest pleasure, or not (p. 124, “fourth
case” . Accordingly his thesis may be most accurately ex:
pressed in the following propositions: (I) that it is never plain ‘
we ought to choose a course which will give the less pleasure,
(2) that in all cases where one course will give greater pleas?"
ure, if we can decide at all which course is right, that one is 3
right, (3) that we often can decide that one course both will ,2’
give greater pleasure and is right.

~’- 1 Now, it should be noted that, if this be all, to say that plans? /
ure is “the only available criterion?» is quite inaccurate. Mr.
McTaggart wholly neglects to consider a case, which he
plainly admits to be“ possible. For suppose, that one course
will plainly cause less of goods other than pleasure (as in the
“fourth case,” p. 124), and that instead of this also giving
less pleasure (as Mr. McTaggart there supposa) the amounts
of pleasure produced by both courses are as far as we can
judge, equal. ' In such a case it would plainly be our duty to .-
choose the course which produced most of other goods. Here, :1
therefore, we have a case, where a criterion other than pleasure,
would, by Mr. McTaggart’s own admission, be available. And
Mr. McTaggart has not tried to show that such cases do not 73 17 1;

[ Wat—W 24.-

 

 

 




35° ~ ~-~- Internatiome-Joumal‘af Ethicsr»:

occur, or are even rare: he has apparently simply failed to
think of them. That one of the conditions for their occur?
rence, namely, the apparent equality of the pleasure produced
by two courses, is by no means rare, I shall presently main; ‘
tain. *. “
A 5 Mr. McTaggart has, then, certainly failed to show that
pleasure is the only available criterion of moral action. He
1 has failed to notice a class of cases in which, provided they oc-"
\cur, another criterion would, on his own doctrine, be available.
But these cases are only those in which, because the amount of
pleasure that would be produced by alternative courses appears
to be equal, there is no balance of pleasure to serve as criterion
between them at all. How are we to understand the impor?‘
j tant proposition which still remains, namely that where one
course does promise more pleasure than another, this fact is,
1} in general a correct criterion of its rightness?
~‘-"-' 1 It should be noted precisely what is meant by that limitation
“1'11 ggnergl.” It is inserted in order to allow for those cases,
mentioned above as admitted by Mr. McTaggart to occur,
where the course which promises the greater pleasure also
promises a decided loss 1n other goods. “In this case,” Mr.
\J McTaggart says (p. 124), “there seems no reasonable solu+
tion.” A balance of pleasure is, accordingly, in this case 119;
a correct criterion, in Mr. McTaggart’s sense. The course
which brings it zygy be the one which also brings the greatest
total of good, but we cannot tell whether it is or not. But Mr.
McTaggart holds such cases toconstitute only a small part of
those which we actually have to decide. He alludes to them
as showing “the pccagongl failure of the only available criter?
ion” (p._ 127). They do, therefore, on his principles, prevent
him from holding that pleasure is _a_l_wgys a correct criterion,
but they leave him entitled to hold that it is so in general. ,
i" l So much by way of making quite plain what Mr. McTagv"
gart’ s thesis IS. His most general proposition is the ﬁrst of the
\1 three given above: That in no case is the course, which would
produce less pleasure, plainly the right one. The next in

_4_

 

 

 

 

 

l f , fiMr. 'McTagg‘art himself admits that ithoccurs, p. 134.

 




2“

M r 1WcTaggart’sEth1cs 351‘

'w

ma"

7‘ l .. ‘

2“ generality is the second of those three: That, in most cases, the ii

1 course which would give more pleasure, is plainly the right i:
one. These two propositions involve the chief points of prin: ll
ciple, which I propose to dispute: and I propose to deal with i,"
them ﬁrst. Discussion of the third, namely: That we can often
tell which course would give more pleasure, in cases where that
one is right, may be conveniently postponed till the main quesé' é:
tions of principle have been dealt with. i

C). l And, ﬁrst of all, I propose to consider the proposition: That, +
in most cases, the course which would give the more pleasure3
is plainly the right one; because, although it does, equally with
the ﬁrst, involve one of what I shall call Mr. McTaggart’s two
main premises, namely that pleasure is good in prOportion to.

"its amount, it-is mainly to be rejected oWing to an objection, .
which will hold whether those main premises are true or false.

; This objection is as follows:

5-" l The “most cases,” in which the course which gives a balk
ance of pleasure is the right course, are divided by Mr. Me:
Taggart into three classes, which may perhaps be as brieﬂy
and clearly described in his own words as in any others.

 

' .. ‘A I" ‘\o
": fight A‘Cv ‘léi-xJ
\

< 14:1) ¥ j- “In the ﬁrst [case]-” he says, “the action to which the hedonic criterion
i’” would guide us. involves in our judgment a greater development of ideals.
7 In this case it is clear that we should take this course, since both elements
, ‘ 7 of the good are increased.
if; E M,” KEN) “In the second case, our action, whichever way we act, Will, as far as we
can see, make no difference to the development of ideals. Here, too, we can
safely abide by the hedonic criterion, since that measures the only element
of the good which our decision can be seen to affect.
{EmﬁLE' H?) “In the third case, our action may make a considerable difference to the
development of our ideals, but we are unable to tell whether the diﬁerence
7% will be for good or for evil. Once more we shall do well to follow the he?
donic criterion. For then, at any rate, we shall gain in respect of one ele;
ment of the good. We my indeed lose much more in respect of develop:
ment. But then we 31:91 gain in respect of that element also. Since the effect
on development is unknown, the only rational course, if we must act, is to
beguided by the effect on happiness, which is known.” (p. 12.4.) < t, S" N?

o I Now, in the ﬁrst of these three cases it is plain that the
course which promises the greatest pleasure is the right one to
adOpt, ggyidgd only that by “our judgment” to the effect that
it also involves the greatest amount of other goods, be'meant
a judgment, to-' assure the correctness of which all reasonable

I-u~.an-‘£(..r.;' :. in.

 

l‘”?
\

 

(9

   




,352 vmtermtiovnala Journal of 1E thics. ’

precautions have been taken. A proviso of this sort we have to
understand throughout. Here it need only be said, that, if it
is clear that a certain course will bring a gain on the whole in
‘all other respects as well as in pleasure, Mr. McTaggart is, if
pleasure be a good, justiﬁed in holding that course to be the
right one. It is, however, important to notice that this as?
surance, that we shall gain on the whole in all other respects,
is precisely what Mr. McTaggart has previously maintained to
be “impossible in most cases, if not in all” (p. 101). Accord?
ling to Mr. McTaggart, then, this ﬁrst class of cases, in which
{pleasure is, on Mr. McTaggart’s principles, a correct criterion,
. will be very rare.

"3 1 But the second and third class of cases present more diﬁi:
culties. In‘the ﬁrst place, how do these two cases differ from
one another? In the ﬁrst it is only “g; for as we, can see” that
our action will make no difference: here, therefore, it is not
denied that our action “may make a considerable difference,”
as is the case in the second. It is impossible to discover ex?
actly what distinction Mr. McTaggart meant to make: but

. three alternatives are possible. (I) He may have meant the
i ﬁrst case to be that in which we doubt whether our action will
make any difference at all; and the second to be that in which,
[growing that it will make a difference, we doubt whether the
ldifference is for good or for evil. Assuming him to have
meant this, how does it affect his argument? We cannot re?
fuse to admit that where the effects of two courses differ @119
respect, as far as we can see, except in amount of pleasure, Mr.
McTaggart is, if pleasure be a good, right that what gives more
pleasure should be preferred. The ﬁrst of these two cases, then,
if this be meant by it, seems to be in Mr. McTaggart’s favor.
\, Eygfthe case never occurs; for our actions always do make
§9me’ obvious difference, other than gain-or loss in pleasure:
and the question whether this difference is or is not a “develop-I”
ment in ideals,” is, under another name, merely the question
whether it is for good or evil-éythe question, which is to be
a dealt with under .the other case. (2) Mr. McTaggart may have
meant the ﬁrst case to be that in which we £93 see that our
action will make no difference for good or evil, and the second
' “a

l

 

 

 

 




Mr. McTaggarfs.[El/tics....,_.,. .. «353‘

Ito be that in which we wgt see whether it makes such a diff
ference or not. If this be so, we may again admit that Mr. Mc-F‘
Taggart’s conclusion as to the right course to pursue in the
ﬁrst case, is theoretically correct. But it is also again quite ,
evident that such cases can never occur. We can never judge ; /
with security that the total values of two alternative sets of ii
goods are absolutely equal; for such a judgment would re-T"
quire an immensely greater accuracy than those which Mr.
McTaggart himself maintains to be very rareﬁ-namely that
one such total is greater or less than another. But (3) it is
possible that Mr. McTaggart may mean by his ﬁrst class cases
where we £911 see, not indeed that two alternative totals are

~w/ggyai in value, but that they do not very greatly differ in value;
and by his second class cases where, though we cannot see
which is the greater, we also cgmot be sure that the difference
in value is not very great. Both these cases might be expressed
by saying that the respective totals are “as far as we can see,
gqul,” since in both we cannot be sure that they are not equal:
and yet there is a most important difference between the two.
since in the one we are sure that the divergence from equality,
if it exists, is not a great one, while in the other we are not
sure but what it is a very great one. Cases of both these kinds
do certainly occur; and it seems most probable that this is the
distinction of which Mr. McTaggart was thinking. What are
we to say of Mr. McTaggart’s hedonic conclusion on this inter:—
pretation of his meaning?

6’ i I think we have to say that the ob jection,which, on any of the
three interpretations, would have held against his judgment of
the second case (his “third case”), will, on this interpretation,
hold against Q9111. The two cases are now alike in this, that in
both we caring; tell but that the results of the two courses will
be equal in value/in all respects except amount of pleasure; and
Mr. McTaggart lays it down as a universal rule that in all such g!
cases we shall do well to prefer the course which gives the \/:
greater pleasure. This universal rule I think we may see to be

, ”certainly wrong.

5“ l The data we ‘have to consider are these: «We have two
.courses, one of which is certainly productive of more pleasure E: E "2 :

\-.--.‘._- .. .

. u.
~--- H... .. H...

. ... .w“--——_— ....-...... -—-

 

 

 




354- , International Jaurnal .0wathz'gsr‘ ,i;

than the other, whereas their results in other respects, though
diﬁ‘ering much in kind, are, so far as we can see, equal in
value. It certainly seems plausible to conclude, as Mr. McTagJ
gart does, that, assuming pleasure to be good, it is reasonable
to choose the course which gives more pleasure. But this
plausibility is certainly fallacious. For by the datum that the
other results are, so far as we can see, equal in value, it is only
meant that we ggmgot declare these totals with certainty to be
unequal. And this being the case, the probability that they
are ggtyolly equal is so small as to be negligible :‘li’it is far more
likely that the one is, in some oneof the many possible degrees,
greater or less than the other. The number of cases, there?
fore, in which the course which gives greater pleasure is right,
because the other results are equal, is so small as to be negligi?‘
ble, and in all other cases we are just as likely to be equally
right in preferring the lesser pleasure. Now this certainly
. gives an inﬁnitesimal probability that we shall be right to
choose the course which gives the greater pleasure; but that
this inﬁnitesimal probability gives ground for a rational solu?‘
tion of such cases cannot be maintained, because there is the;
some probability, in favor of any other criterion whatsoever.
To take an instance, which Mr. McTaggart uses above (pp.
10313104) : It will be just as rational to prefer a Home Educa3
tion‘ to a Public School, on the ground that it gives a decisive
superiority in ruling; or a Public School Education to the
other, on the ground that it gives a decisive superiority in
gegtgnmss, as to prefer either on the ground that it gives a
decisive superiority in pleasure. In short, upon the principle
which Mr. McTaggart here uses in favor of the hedonic cri+ "
terion, it will always be equallyfqtjonal' to adOpt either of two
compatible courses, if only each is superior to the other jg,
some one respect: that is to say, there will beno rational 501“}:
tion‘ in such cases; the very principle which Mr. McTaggart
usa in favor of the hedonic criterion is decisive against it.
Let us ask ourselves the question: Am I to send my son t0?
Public School or to educate him at home? Mr. McTagga-rt

 

 

 

/

 

'——¥

_ _ A I - ~ IN
it, 5 ‘50 Mr. McTaggart himself admits. r» 126 noteé’j

:

«*1 o {363)

 




Mil Judzag ,gwtntéstﬁE‘t-hu .“ “3“ gﬁif'wr’wr‘ww 35 S

V g C' I“

”A says we cannot here decide between the reSpective values ob?
tained, other than pleasure; but if the principle we are now
considering were true, we certainly could decide between them’;
kwe could decide rationally in favor of either; For Mr. Mc-F"
Taggart admits that the ﬁrst course has a decisive superiority
over the second in 91L? of the many points involvedﬁ—namely
that it gives more “genuineness.” Let us consider all the other
points, eggeept the two degrees of genuineness. Can we say
that inﬂthﬂseuother points the home education is decisively the
best? Not according to Mr. McTaggart; for this is still one of
the questions%—a comparison of sums of goods other than
pleasureﬁ—“which it is impossible in most cases, if not in all, to

ecide.” We have it then that of two courses, £91959 for as
$0.? can see, in other respects, one is decisively superior in the
good of genuineness: therefore, Mr. McTaggart would be
bound to say on his present principles, choose that one. But
unfortunately by an exact parity of reasoning, we should also
be bound to choose the home education. For this, according
to Mr. McTaggart, has a decisive superiority in respect of girl;
gage. ‘ Let us now consider all results except degree of culture,
including, of course, now, in each, its degree of genuineness.
These two totals are also, in all probability, Reform we can see
equal. Therefore of two totals, apparently equal in other re? "
Spects, one is decisively superior in the good of culture: and
we are bound to choose this one. Of course, we are not bound
to agree with Mr. McTaggart (nor perhaps Mr. McTag;
gart to agree with himself) that, when we consider two sets of
results in all except some one reSpect in which the one set has a
decisive superiority, these other reSpects will be, as far as we
can see, equal in value. The only point we require to make is
that, iflthey are so, this decisive superiority in one respect is no
ground for preferring the course which has it; since, if it were
we should often. have an equally good ground for preferring
Either course. The facts maybe expressed in another way, i
which makes them seem sufﬁciently obvious as soon as it is
pointed out." If of two totals, upon the relative values of
which we cannot decide, there be added to one a greater, to
the other a less, amount of pleasure, the two new totals thus iii-5;,

 

 

 




,356 . International Jaumal of Ethics.»

formed will still, in general, be totals, upon the relative values
of which we cannot decide: we shall still be unable to say
whether or not the one is greater than the other, and consef
quently unable to say which is the greater; so that we obviously
shall have no ground for rational choice. That Mr. McTagZ."
gart must hold these two new totals to be gleegys thus “as far
as we can see, equal in value,” follows from his contention that
we can never determine the relative values of any amount of
pleasure and any other good: for the one could only be cerf“
tainly greater than the other, if the difference between the
amount of plasure contained in the one and that contained in
the other were certainly greater than any possible difference
in value between the two sets of remaining constituents. Mr.
McTaggart cannot hold that this is eve: the case. It may, how?
ever, be allowed, if we believe that a certain amount of pleas?
ure can be seen to be greater than a certain amount of other
goods, that it may sometimes be the case, in the last of the two
cases we are now considering+namely where we eon see that
the difference between the total values of the two sets of other
constituents is not very great. Mr. McTaggart has debarred
himself from the right to hold that the distinction he makes be?
tween this and the other case has any bearing on the correctness
of the hedonic criterion. But we may admit so much in his
favor: That, where the difference in value between the other
goods is very small, and that between the amounts of pleasure
very large, it m‘be right to prefer the course which gives the
grater pleasure. But such cases are certainly not very com’tn‘
mon: and how far short does the admission of them fall from
the sweeping contention of Mr. McTaggart that, wherever we
cannot see which set of remaining results has the greater value,
we are entitled to judge the course which gives most pleasure
the best!

"’ l I conclude, them, that Mr. McTaggart’s attempt to show that

. the course which promises most pleasure is in most cases the
right one has utterly broken down. On his own principles, it
will 93313;. be the right one in the ﬁg; of the three cases which he
distinguisheST-namely where we can also see that the other
results of the pleasantest course are also better than those of

 

 

 

 

 




 

207

MerzTaggart’sEthzcs ‘ 357
$3: "'1 l ,,
lthe other. And it is plain that there is little meaning in call-x ll

ing amount of pleasure a criterion, if it is only safe to follow it 3
1 where we can also see directly that the total results are better.
Of the other two cases, on which Mr. McTaggart must rely to
make up his majority, I have tried to show that Mr. McTag-T
gart’s universal conclusion is simply fallacious. It can only be
admitted that in a subdivision of the ﬁrst of these, the course
which gives the greater pleasure may be plainly the right. But .
here, too, it is idle to talk of amount of pleasure as a criterion,

   

since in order to show that the pleasantest course is the best, x‘; a
we must, iaégébjndividua] case, institute a comparison between E El
the difference in amount of pleasure and the difference in i;
amount of other goods. 5;
as) l It has, however, only been shown that the proposition: The 5%
course which gives most pleasure is, in general, the right one, gr?
cannot be sustained by the reasons which Mr. McTaggart gives :23
for it. The peculiarity of Mr. McTaggart’s attempt to provq 3:;
it, consists in the fact that his proof, if sound, would hold, M """"" Eg
whatever view we took of the value of pleasure relatively to f.
other things. My refutation of this proof shows that, unless i :3
we can estimate the value of pleasure relatively to other things, i, 3

any rational choice is impossible in three out of the four classes 3
into which Mr. McTaggart divides all practical cases. Mr.
McTaggart holds that we can never form any estimate of the

9- .. .. ..,...._A
y '1‘ .s_' - ..
- :. new}; ’0”. -

value of pleasure relatively to other things; and it seems to 3‘
me to be demonstrated that, if this be so, no rational choice is it;
open to us, in any case, where there is a balance of pleasure on il
l . . . ,_ {it
one s1de, except in the ﬁrst of Mr. McTaggart’s cases? ‘ iii
namely where there is also a. balance of other goods. on the " Z;
same side. This ﬁrst class of cases, as we saw, Mr. McTaggart ,
* must hold to be comparatively rare; and, therefore, we get the ,1
result that on his view a rational choice is in most cases impos: 2.;
sible. But Mr. McTaggart may be wrong about the rarity of "”— 5

these cases also. Our decision upon the actual truth of the prof 1‘
position that, in most cases, the pleasanter course is the best, 5
must, it is now plain, depend (I) upon the view we take of the \

WMh-w:

nature of most practical cases, (2) upon the‘ view we take of
the value of pleasure relatively to other things. The ﬁrst of i.

.. .. . ' .~ _‘ . I .‘ . .. , , f
s ’ .$**'.'“*.'~"3"ri*»‘-ﬂ'-WW£~§:9 L;
w - wm-m-z'r: «haw

.v
.9!
tr. “If
l-l' ‘ ‘ r
‘ “rcwbgnru'. ~ - .'

 

to

 




3‘53 , , International Journal of Ethics:

Litht’hes‘e questions I propose to postpone: upon the second some
light will be thrown by the discussion of Mr. McTaggart’s
most general proposition, namely: That it is MEI. plain we
ought to choose a course which will give less pleasure. To this
discussion I shall now proceed. The pr0position would cer}?
tainly follow from what I have said I should call Mr. McTag’é'"
gart’s two main premises. These are (I) that pleasure is a
good, and a greater quantity of pleasure always proportionally
better than a less, (2) that no other good is ever certainly great-i“
er than the smallest obvious quantity of pleasure. The ﬁrst of
these premises was also involved in the proposition we have
just been considering; and we shall see no great reason to
quarrel with it. The second, on the other hand, is highly im-I '
portant, since, if Mr. McTaggart’s view of practical cases is
also correct, it would prove that in the majority of cases no
rational choice is open to us. -What are we to say of these two
premises?

.~ 5' Now the ﬁrst of them is part of what Mr. McTaggart has
failed to prove by' his treatment of the question of the Sua
preme Good. Mr. McTaggart has given us no reason to think
that pleasure is good at all. Even if the Absolute as a whole

1. were very good (and this was not proved) and if also

' its goodness partly depended upon its containing pleasure, it
would not follow that pleasure was good at all; For it is quite
possible that a whole may be the better for containing a certain

5 element, and yet that element itself possess no value whatever.

And apart from the question of proof it does seem very prob?
able that pleasure has no value at all; even although we ad?

‘ mit that certain states of mind are the better for containing
pleasure. And again, even if we admit that pleasure has some
value (and it would be rash to deny it), it would not follow
(as Mr. McTaggart assumes) that a greater quantity of pleas:
ure was always also prOportionally greater in value. M

‘33 Nevertheless, even if this ﬁrst assumption of Mr. McTag+ ‘
gart’s, that a greater quantity of pleasure is always preportion-T‘
ally better than a less, is erroneous, the error does not seem very
serious ; but it does not seem serious, only because the error in:

volved in his second assumptior'f‘ seems so enormous. So far

p...

. m

Jars—5: ‘:=.;~r..~:x.ét.é‘§_é€£'éé~ In; W

1"” 2. mfgﬁwwgfltilww; :W ~

’ ‘ ﬁlmmk 1A

 

 

 




4V1r..1V15Taggaxrt’s E thics... 35 9

.
\"‘ ,.., r' . A
‘ l ' '.

2”,: do}; it seem from being the case that no other good is ever cer':
tainly greater than the smallest quantity of pleasure, that the 3
very greatest quantity of pleasure seems to have an almost im+
perceptible value compared to many other things. This second
assumption of Mr. McTaggart’s is the premise that seems
most obviously Open to question.

0 L Whether it is or is not preposterous, must in the last resort
be left to inspection. I may give an instance, which seems to

. ,... 3.. .
Am’wt . ~ .

was-2..., -
i .l»;. .t .\

me to show its absurdity as plainly as any other. It certainly :3
seems to me that the state of mind of a person feeling, with 3‘
great pleasure, that kind of love which Mr. McTaggart takes 33
to exemplify the other element in his Absolute, is far more than :
twice as good as that of a drunkard who might be enjoying :3
twice as much pleasure in the occupation of breaking crockery. {3.
The ultimate decision must, I say, depend upon the view we :3
take of instances like these: but it may be useful to point out .33

. . - «I
certain defects in the arguments which Mr. McTaggart uses to E

u..-a‘
4....
‘—

4.11.4

give plausibility to his View.
53 3 (I) It is not quite plain that Mr. McTaggart recognizes all

the consequences which his view entails. What he says is (I
. choose the clearest statement, but the same view is also ex-.'
pressed on p. 124) : The position that “a great change for the
good in one element will counterbalance a moderate change for
the bad in the other is theoretically indefensible. It implies
that we have some means of knowing, within very broad limits,
how much happiness will be more worth having than a given
degree of deve10pment. And it is impossible to settle this” (p.
123). (The italics are mine.) Plainly this involves that no
loss in other goods can be seen to overbalance any obvious gain /
in pleasure. But Mr. McTaggart does not apply the doctrine
to his Supreme Good and say: Supposing the pleasure in the
Absolute just perceptibly decreased, and the other element ref
maining the same, we cannot tell whether or not it would
be superior to a world of persdns enjoying that perceptibly
l greater pleasure but whose minds were otherwise solely 0c?
cupied with the contemplation of dunghills. The argument
With which, as we have seen, Mr. McTaggart might be tempted
to rejoin, namely that the pleasure in his AbSblutelcqglg not 33' :

.9 ._2
do

 

 

. r' ,
y_. - ...:-..,v . . _ - .
‘ I- '1', :1. I. _, .I:' «as - / 0

may,
.1; 1 l ML

533%?

 

in

 

 

 




2M

MLJILLIa-‘ggan’saEthics..a. ~ 36:.

.ﬂ‘.

.. . .
an “.1“: Err-«-
..._..-r.'* . .-
‘-...-....- . -

I wish to call attention here is that he refers to this doctrine
that we. cannot compare heterogeneous goods as something
which “we saw above”; whereas the only thing which he has
tried to show previously is something quite different. He
must be referring to the long argument, in which he professes ,-’
to show “that the idea of perfection cannot give us any criéfmvi
terion of moral action” (pp. 997107). But all that he tries
to show in this passage is that where we are considering Egg
complicated sums of goods, it is “impossible in most cases, if
not in all” (p. 101), to tell which is to be preferred. With
regard to two such sums (he gives as an instance “marriage”
and “free love,” p. 102) he obviously does try to make us see
that we cannot be sure of their respective merits. But his very
argument in favor of this contention, implies that with regard
to certain figment; of those sums we can make a very decided
judgment. In order to see that this is so, we need only refer
again to Mr..McTaggart’s second instanceFi-(jthe comparative
merits of Public Schools and home education (pp. 10379104).
“Are we nearer to heaven,” asks Mr. McTaggart, “if at this
moment we buy genuineness with Philistinism, or buy culture
with Sghwﬁfmerei?” That £213? question is, as Mr. McTag‘e
gart says, difﬁcult to answer, may be admitted. But it is obvi?
ous that its difﬁculty depends upon the ease with which we
., can judge that other questionf-upon the ease with which
5 we can judge that “culture” is better than “Philistinism,”

- ""I :‘— 31—. .‘H‘f: ~
03.4

”mph”, 3,... ......

.W;

. .. , , _ u ,
c. kink»-

’—

My»

' I

Wva-(‘f‘
‘3:

W
(~ E '-

     
   

0 I ' ‘ / -" .\‘
.. as, .21ng :2 2

 

 

and “genuineness” than “Qghgﬁzfmerei.” It is difﬁcult {1...
.~ only because, on each side, we have a thing compara-T’
L tively good ”Izqyghht with another comparatively bad.
The difﬁculty would not arise, unless it were obvious
that a combination of “genuineness” with “culture"
would be actually more than twice as good as a combination of
the evils of “Philistinism” with those of “Schwidéi'umerei.” /‘(1- H

When, therefore, Mr. McTaggart appeals to this passage in

favor of the assertion that it is impossible to compare any two
elements of the good with any hOpe of discovering which is the

. most desirable, it is plain that the facts to which he appeals

: show something quite different: they even imply the contradic-T

tory of his assertion. In this passage he only tries to show that i 3‘ c .

....--c-W-v—-—

. . .. . . - - - ‘w‘ -
I, ,L-.-,~...‘.-. .._. _. 3..” ......, J...” ,m- ,.~ ‘7-4‘ ,I. ‘ ~

 




1362M. International Journal of Ethics.

upon those complicated sums of goods which occur in practical
cases it is very difﬁcult to decide: whereas for his later point it
is essential he should show of the single good,‘ ‘any given
amount of pleasure,” that it is never certainly less in value,
than any other single good. For my part, it seems to me quite
obvious that a lifetime of genuineness is certainly superior in
value to the pleasure obtained by a moment’s enjoyment of
turtle-soup: and the point I am now making is that, whereas
Mr. McTaggart seems t \'
tainly superior, he has said nothing which even tends to show
this. That such judgments will not sufﬁce, by themselves, to
decide profited cases, must, of course, be admitted. But the
:question whether practical cases are soluble, is quite different
5 from the question what data we have for deciding on their
l solubility; and we have evidence that, owing to a confusion of
ithese two questions, Mr. McTaggart has arrived at a wrong
iconclusion on the latter. We cannot decide off—hand, as he
ldoes on his “fourth case” (p. 124), that, where a gain in pleas?
lure is certainly accompanied by a loss in other goods, there is
“no reasonable solution.” Wemmtgy be forced to the conclusion
that there is no reasonable solution either in this or in Mr.
McTaggart’s second and third cases: but all three questions
must be treated on the same principles, and we cannot decide
this one on the ground that no pleasure is ever certainly less in
value than any other good.
pl The same confusion between practical cases and our data
for their solution is very strikingly exhibited by another char+
acteristic of Mr. McTaggart’ s argument—a characteristic
which is worth mentioning, because it also exhibits another
weakness in-Mr. McTaggart’s hedonistic position. Mr. MCI“
Taggart obviously thinks that in practical cases of importance
\ we often can decide which course will bring the most pleasure:

 

 

 

the whole point of his argument is to show that pleasure is an
applicable and correct criterion ojm morality, not only of those
,‘ cases “in which we do not bring morality into the matter” (p
E III). But it is very noticeable that all the instances which he
gives, as showing that we can estimate the relative value of
pleasures, are taken from cases of the latter sort; whereas in {'2‘

 

 

A .1

. '« :
C v" _.
.—

‘

 




 

 

 

V41414:.x=Mc.le‘cug,_g;c1}rt’ 5 Ethics; " ~ -- ‘ 363""?

those problems “which are the real ethical difﬁculties of life”
(p. 105), he does not attempt to show that it is plain which
course would give the greater pleasure. He Loggia, indeed,
that why most independent thinkers have concluded in favor of
marriage, is “because they take a more practical criterion. If ,
we estimate the gain or loss of happiness which would follow ‘3
from the abolition of marriage, we may @21th ﬁnd excellent [i
reasons for declining to make the change” (p. 103). But he :T
does not give these excellent reasons; and that “most indeizi
pendent thinkers” have actually been led to their conclusion f
by the use of the hedonistic criterion may be conﬁdently af», g
ﬁrmed to be a mere fancy. Hedonistic argumentshave, indeed, i
been frequently used with success to give plausibility to a con: l
viction of which a thinker was already strongly convinced; l
but that an impartial consideration of the hedonistic evidence ;
has FEET SUﬂ'lCCd, by itself, to produce a strong conviction on i
any question of importance it is by no means bold to deny. l
However that may be, Mr. McTaggart’s argument in favor of
the usefulness of pleasure as a criterion exhibits just the con-7
verse fallacy to that which appears in his arguments against
the applicability of other goods. In the case of pleasure he
only shows that we can sqmgtimes decide that one sum of}
pleasure is greater than another; and then concludes, without V/
further demonstration, that we can so decide about the highly
complicated sums involved in practical problems. In the case
of other goods he only tries to show that we cannot decide
on the complicated sums involved in practice; and then con}T
eludes, without further demonstration, that we cannot decide
that gm one element of the good is preferable to another.
’5’ er. McTaggart has, therefore, given us no reason in support”-
of his opinion that we cannot pronounce» with certainty that
any other good is greater than the smallest quantity of pleas-7‘

/

/

ure; and, accordingly, he has also failed to prove his most ‘ 4

general practical proposition, namely that it is never plainly
right to prefer a course which would give less pleasure: he has .
given us no reason to think that in his “fourth case,” no tea-i“ "
sonable solution is ever possible. If, however, this unsupéi
ported Opinion were correct, I have shown that no reasonable
solution would be possible, in any of Mr. McTaggart’s three J

,-‘T.1'3m'2tm;mm‘7m {M‘f’f' ' ‘ ‘

 




a»:

$64, .. Inter-national Journal of Ethics.

[:last cases: we should only be able to decide which was our
right course, when one course showed a decided superiority both
in pleasure and 1n other goods; pleasure would be a correct criig K
terion, only if 1n most cases a gain in pleasure coincided with
a gain in other goods. But I have already said that this opinion
appears to me not merely incorrect but preposterous, and I
have given an instance which seems to me to make this self-
evident. If, however, the opinion is incorrect, if we can estii‘
mate, within broad limits, the value of pleasure relatively to
other goods, we have seen that a rational solution may be pos'é"
sible both in the second and the fourth of Mr. McTaggart’s

. cases: our decision on them will depend on the value we assign

to pleasure relatively to other goods. The assumption, there?
fore, that Mr. McTaggart’ 3 opinion is incorrect, Calls for a re?“

- consideration of practical cases, in which the question how

much value pleasure has will probably not be unimportant. It
is only by such a re- -consideration that we can decide, whether, .
after all, pleasure is, in general, a correct criterion; and, if
not, by what other principles we can guide our actions.
L,And ﬁrst of all, it appears to me, as I have already said,
that the value even of very large amounts of pleasure is very
small 1n comparison to that of other goods: for it may be ques+
tioned, without paradox, whether pleasure has any value at all.
That such a doubt is not paradoxical may I think be made ap?
parent, if we refer to a principle which Mr. McTaggart
strangely neglects. Mr. McTaggart assumes that the value of
a whole must always be the same as the sum of the values of
its parts (e. g. p. I I 5);:7a view which 18, perhaps, the only one,
in the whole range of philOSOphy, to which his own term
“Atomism” can be justly applied as a term of abuse. If, on the
contrary,w we remember, what is certainly true, that the value of
a whole may be very much greater than the sum of the values
of its parts, it becomes plain that from the fact that the pres: '
ence of pleasure very much heightens the value of certain
wholes, we cannot infer that pleasure has any value at all. But
it is only this pr0positionggthat the subtraction of pleasure

from certain wholes would very much impair their valuet: . .

which it is paradoxical to deny. Theft: is certainly a very gen?“

 

 

 




