MRS. FENWICK MILLER

ON

VIVISECTION.

 

 

A Speech delivered at Prince’s Hall, London, on the 30th
of May, 1894 :—

MRS. FENWICK MILLER—Mr. Chairman, ladies and
gentlemen, I am to move that the Chairman be authorised to
send a petition to Her Majesty the Queen, which the Chairman
will presently read to the meeting. I may say that, while in
full sympathy with the high moral ground which has been put
foremost by previous speakers, I yet prefer to approach this
question from another point of view, simply because I believe
the other point of view is best calculated to win the ear of that
great general public to which we must look for alteration in
the law.

I do not believe that there is really any essential
difference between the scientiﬁc and the moral point of view.
(Hear, hear.) My observation of life has led me to the con-
viction which was expressed by one of the greatest of English
.divines, one great, not only as a theologian,,but so profound in
his knowledge of human nature, that through the centuries
that have passed since he lived he has been read by every one
who cares to know what has been thought by great thinkers—-
I mean Jeremy Taylor. Jeremy Taylor observed that whoever
would carefully and candidly consider, will perceive that man
can only earn his own prosperity by seeking at the same time
the prosperity of others, and whoever will approach the ques-

 




 

2

tion candidly will see that ultimately these two things coincide
with each other. It is my profound conviction that such is
the case, and that it is absolutely impossible that what is
morally wrong can be or will be found to be beneﬁcial to
humanity. (Cheers)

Taking that as a starting point and inquiring Whether
Vivisection has been beneﬁcial to humanity, I am convinced
by a study of the facts that it has not been, and that it never
can be, but that on the contrary, all the scientiﬁc beneﬁts
which are claimed for it are perfectly illusory, that as Sir
William Fergusson said, Vivisection has done nothing for
surgery or for medicine. “I have thought over it again and
again,” said he, “and have not been able to come to a con—
clusion in my own mind that there is any single operation in
surgery which has been initiated by the performance of
something like it on the lower animals.” I believe, after
consideration, with Sir Charles Bell, that “experiments upon
animals have never been the means of discovering truth,
but that, on the contrary, they have frequently led mankind
astray.” But I believe also, and I appeal to the common sense
of everybody, if it is not so, that inﬁnite mischief will be done
to the interests of suffering humanity by familiarising our
medical men with the inﬂiction of pain for any other object
than the ultimate relief of the pain of the creature which
suffers. To be used to torture animals, must make men less
capable, less kindly in the sick room, less suitable to have
trusted in their hands, with the absolute and implicit faith-
with Which we have to trust them in the hour of sickness, the
bodies of ourselves and of those who are dear to us. (Cheers).

It is not the education of the torture chamber which
makes a man ﬁt to be allowed to say what is to be done with
our own bodies in the hour of pain. It is also entirely opposed
to the great traditions of medical morals. When I was a
medical student I was instructed by my teachers that the one




3

thing that it was proper to think of in the performance of any
operati0n, or in the application of any medicament, was the
interest of the poor individual patient who stood before me,
and that ought to be the attitude of mind of the medical
practitioner. Sometimes the surgeon must give great pain,
sometimes the physicianmust use a distressing drug, but it
should never be for any other object than the immediate
beneﬁt of that particular sufferer. (Cheers).

If you give rein to that pretence of the Vivisector, that
he may do any amount of evil to the particular animal that is
at that moment before him in order that perchance somewhere
away in the distance there may come some possible beneﬁt to
other sufferers, you are opening the door to awful medical
enormities. There will be destroyed all possibility of confi-
dence in the men who have taken up that point of view.
(Cheers) And more than that, you will suffer by keeping out
of the medical profession the very minds that for the good of
humanity you ought to get into, the medical profession.
(Cheers) A truly humane, loving, tender fellow-creature such
as you want to come to you in the hour of sickness would never
go through vivisection studies to become your doctor. (Cheers)
And so when you talk of having vivisection as a door to the
medical profession, you are keeping out of the medical pro—
fession necessarily all the very class of minds and the very
sort of dispositions whiCh for the good of humanity ought to
make your surgeons and your physicians. (Cheers). Hardly
any of the present generation of our doctors have ever vivisected;
terrible will be the punishment of society if we cannot forbid
our rising and coming doctors being thus trained.

It is so important to know the point of View of the
average lay thinker, that I heard with great interest a tender-
minded lady state the other day why she had refused to sign
a petition against vivisection. She said she knew almost
nothing upon the subject, but that it seemed to her that if by

 




 

4.

giving a drug to a few rabbits something should be found out
which would save the suffering of mankind for ages to come it
was well worth the sacriﬁce of those few rabbits. How very,
very different was her idea of vivisection from what is, alas ! the
painful truth about it. (Cheers) I wonder if every one in
this hall knows? I suppose you do, but if not, I entreat you to
make yourselves acquainted with the facts that are given in
Frances Power Cobbe’s “Light in Dark Places.”

I do not like to harrow up the feelings of an audience, and
to tell you the truth it would be an almost impossible task for
me to read to you from this pamphlet with my own voice—-—my
voice would break down. It would be an almost impossible
task for me to read to you what is done to animals : not our
statement but the statements of the vivisectors themselves
taken from their books, (cheers), taken from the books which
they write for each other, and especially taken from the books
which they did write before public attention was directed upon
their doings. (Cheers) There is not now the candour that
there once was. But I invite you to see the facts of what has
been done. Such matters, for instance, as how Claud Bernard
baked to death a large number of animals, sometimes with dry
heat, and sometimes with damp heat, sometimes with their
heads also inside the hot oven, sometimes with their heads put
outside, that he might watch their gaspings and take the
temperature in their mouths. I invite you to hear about how
a dog was seen, according to a vivisector’s own picture, laid out
upon a torture trough, with a great muzzle on to prevent it
biting, its salivary gland carefully dissected and a tube pushed
up into that gland. I invite you to hear of such things as the
experiments of Professor Mantegazza, of Florence, who wrote
a book upon pain, and invented an apparatus by which he
might inﬂict the utmost torture possible upon animals, the
plan which he found most efﬁcacious being to plant nails,
sharp and numerous, through the feet of the creature in such

 




 

5

a manner as to render it almost motionless, so that in every
movement it might feel its torment more vividly, and then to
take up pieces of its skin with pincers and lift it up while its
feet remained nailed. I can go on no longer; it is devilish.
(Loud and continuous cheering.)

And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the sort of conduct
which is represented to us as “giving a few doses of poison,”
or “pricking with a pin ” some of the lower animals for the
beneﬁt of mankind! \Ve are told, indeed, that these things
are not done by English Vivisectors. ls it for English
vivisectors to say “ I thank Thee I am better than other
men ” ? No. Our .lihiglish Vivisectors are not better than other
men. We in this country are no better than other people—~
our brethren in America, our friends on the C(‘mtinent. \Vc are
all of one humanity, and when we find that human beings
under the temptation to cruelty which is given by the freedom
to Vivisect have come to do such things elsewhere, we may be
quite certain that they would do such things here also if also
they dared. (Cheers)

The fact is, painful though it be, that there is in the
human mind a deep and awful tendency to cruelty. in different
ages it has appeared in different ways. It has been in religion,
and we have got rid of it there. It has been in the law, and
in the days when it was admitted there gentlemen like the
Lord Chancellor of that day did not hesitate to throw off their
robes, and with their own hands to rack women, as Anne Askew
has left on record in her own case; and we have got rid of
that out of the law. It has found sometimes a haven in
domestic life, but we have done all that we possibly could to get
it out of domestic life; and when one then sees that cruelty
has found its home within that profession which ought to he
the very type of all that is tender, of all that tries to remove
torture and to help suffering, and to do away with physical
misery, when we ﬁnd that it has taken refuge there, it is almost

 




6

heartbreaking, and one begins to fear that no efforts for the
amelioration of human conditions are of any use, and that we
can do nothing but change the locality in which these sins are
' exercised. But we can but go through step by step, doing our
best to make this world a little more as it should be, just in
the place where at the moment that we live we see it to be
wrong. As the poet has said :
“Once to every man and nation

Comes the moment to decide,

In the strife ’twixt good and evil,

For the good or evil side.”
To us in our day in this matter of the lust for brutal cruelty,
it seems to have come in regard to science. It is for us to
decide about scientiﬁc cruelty for the good or evil side, and just
as lawyers were not always allowed to say Whether torture
was needful for them to use to get evidence, just as priests
were not always allowed to say whether torture was needful
for them to employ to promote true religion, so now it rests
with every one of us to be quite sure that it is ourvduty to see
thatthe medical priesthood of the moment is not to be left
to itself and allowed to say that torture is necessary to relieve

disease. (Loud cheers.)

 

 

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION
OF ANIMALS EROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION, 20,
VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, LONDON, SW. 6.94.

Price 1a.; 10d. per dozen; 6s. per 100.

 




