”%mwwwwwwwwwwwwwm%@%@%@%@

a

" ~

l  0b,; ‘Jntellectuals

 

 

anb Vivisection.

3?

3. ¢uming Walters. 512.- '.

 

“ Paradise was a place of peace, we say, and
all the animals were gentle servants to as. Well,
the world would get be a place of peace if we were
all peacemakers, and gentle service should we have
of its Creatures if we gave them gentle mastery.
But so long as we make sport of slaying bird and
beast, and make battleﬁeld of our meadow instead
of pasture, so long, truly, the Flaming Sword will
still turn every way, and the gates of Eden remain
barred close enough till we have broken down the
closed gates of our own hearts.”-——Rnslcin.

 

 

 

Manchester.
1920.

wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwan

E%E%E%E%E%E%E%E%E%E%Eﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ

*%
, ﬂ
!@
'%
w
%
%
Q
%
@_
%
Q
%
Q
%
,w
%
Q
%
' Q9
%
w
%
w
%
Q
%
sﬂ
%
Q
%
4%
.‘%

)

 




URGENT 1. IMPORTANT.

TO ALL WHO LOVE TRUTH, JUSTICE, HUMANITY,
AND WHO DESIRE TO SWEEP AWAY
CRUELTY to ANIMALS, the obstacle to HUMAN PROGRESS,
These Notes are commended for earnest perusal.

The Committee of The Manchester, Salford &
District Branch, British Union for Abolition of
Vivisection give a cordial invitation to all friends of
Humanity to join the Society.

YOUR HELP and CO- OPERATION are important
factors in this PRACTICAL HUMANE REFORM
WORK.

Subscriptions —— Donations —— Gifts, are needed at
once to extend our educational activities. '

FIVE POUNDS enables you to be enrolled as a
LIFE MEMBER. Ordinary Yearly Membership
from ONE SHILLING and upwards.‘ '

Monthly Journal containing latest information and
topical articles, sent POST FREE to Members Who
Subscribe from 3 /— and upwards per annum.

Hon. Sec. : Miss LUCY HEWITT,
Hon. Treas. : Mr. VICTOR WILSON.

FURTHER INFORMATION will be gladly given on
application to——
ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Secretary & Lecturer,

Anti-Vivisection Ofﬁces,
2 Victoria Street, MANCHESTER.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

The Intellectuals
and
Vivisection.

AN ADDRESS
given in the
ASSOCIATION HALL, MANCHESTER,
October‘16th, 1919,
__ by __
J. CUMING WALTERS, M.A.

The Rev. WALTER MURRAY, B.D.,
presiding.

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

FOREWORD

by
WALTER R. HADWEN, Esq., J.P.,
M.D., M.R.C.S., L.R.G.P., L.S.A.,

Gold Medallist in Surgery and Medicine, &c.,
President—British Union for Abolition of Vivisection.

“ In a singularly able and trenchant manner,
Mr. Cuming Walters has marshalled the forces of the
Intellectuals on the side of Mercy and Justice toward
our sub-human friends.

The moral side of the Anti-Vivisection question
is that on which the battle should alone be fought
for that aspect of it appeals to all that is best in
human nature. It is only necessity that compels
us to meet the claims of the cowardly spirit which
would seek beneﬁts for a more powerful race at the
expense of the blood and agony of the weak.

We can prove, and have proved beyond dispute,
that experiments on living animals have drawn a
blank so far as the amelioration or cure of human
disease is concerned, but the moral argument presented
in the following pages, should be amply sufﬁcient to
satisfy the cultured and thoughtful mind.”

Published by The Manchester, Salford & District Branch,
British Union for Abolition of Vivisection,
10 Wellington Chambers,
2 Victoria Street,
Manchester.

 




    

    

 

 

4

Address by Mr. J. CUMING WALTERS, M.A.
“THE INTELLECTUALS AND VIVISECTION.”
The Rev. WALTER MURRAY, B.D., in the Chair.

MR. CHAIRMAN AND FRIENDS,

I stand before you unabashed as the open and
pronounced foe of vivisection, and if I err I am in excellent
company. My opposition arises not only from my natural
repugnance to cause pain to those who are capable of
feeling it, but from the mental conviction that the work
is wrong. I want to show to-night that the intellectuals
are on the side of mercy and justice to the animal creation.
It will not be my task to harrow you with stories of what
takes place in the shrouded laboratory of the vivisector.
The revelations have been made over and Over again;
the facts are known in all their sickening horror.

I shall try to deal with the moral aspects, and to
show what our thinkers and philosophers have said on the
problem. They may, of course, be decried as sickly senti-
mentalists—~abusive terms come easy enough to people
with a bad case. But the names I shall mention are by no
means those of namby-pamby and emotional men and
women ; and I deny at the outset that humanitarians are
either fools or weaklings. Rather do I ﬁnd them the brave
ones of the world who range themselves on the side of
right for right’s sake, who bear contumely, who are
prepared to take risks, and who are ready to say—unlike
the experimenters on the quivering bodies of animals——
“ I would rather submit to the worst of deaths, so far as
pain goes, than have a single dog or cat tortured on the
pretence of sparing me a twinge or two.” Such were the
words of ROBERT BROWNING, and I doubt if even those
persons who display so much courage in cutting and
stabbing a trussed and tethered animal would have the
courage to denounce that supreme poet as a craven.
But if Browning’s testimony does not sufﬁce, we have also
that of his fellow-poet LEWIS MORRIS, who cried—-

“ Surely a man should scorn
To owe his weal to others’ death and pain ;

’9

 




 

 

5

and there is also the ﬁne saying of WALTER SAVAGE
LANDOR—

“ Glory to the man who rather bears a grief corroding
his breast, than permits it to prowl beyond, and to prey
on the tender and compassionate.”

Vivisection is deliberate inﬂiction of pain upon the dumb
and defenceless. It is a blind experiment, and, whether it
succeeds or fails, the animal pays the cost and pays it in
nerve, blood, agony

It is not a fair contract. It is not a proper relationship
between the man and the animal. It is an abuse of power
and place.

Suppose the position were reversed, and the dog, say, was
the more powerful creature. How many arguments we
should ﬁnd to prove how evil, immoral, and barbarous it
was to vivisect a man in the remote hope of ﬁnding a cure
for rabies! But our vivisectionist has no compunction in
cutting, maiming, infecting, torturing a dog 1n order to ﬁnd
a cure for cancer. And the point 1s this—he never ﬁnds it. '
My conviction is that he never will ﬁnd it by that means, and
that it was never intended that he should.

Dr. Westcott, Bishop of Durham, speaking as a religious
man, found it “ absolutely inconceivable ” that the Creator
“ should have so arranged the avenues of knowledge ” that
we could only attain to truths “ through the unutterable
agonies of beings which trust in us.”

As an animal-lover, I am liable to be ridiculed as a
sentimentalist ; and, as an opponent of cruelty in any shape
or form and towards any living creature, I expose myself
to the condemnation of men of sterner stuff as a crank.
These two labels do not terrify me in the least. Iam presump-
tuous enough to think that some day, when men have grown,
I may be considered a little more justiﬁed than my accusers.
But I admit that much progress will have to be made, a.
massive wall of prejudice be broken down, a fuller and

 




 

6

deeper knowledge of the animal creation and its nature be
obtained, and a truer sympathy with all living creatures be
aroused, before the majority of mankind will admit that
brutes have “ rights.”

The blunt fact mainly perceived hitherto has been that
the inferior creatures are at our mercy, and therefore we can
be as merciless as we like; that animals have no defence
equal to our attacks, and that it may therefore be our good
pleasure to attack them when we will. There are many ways
of doing this—~in the form of “ sport,” a term which covers
a multitude of sins ; in the form of useful research and ex-
periment, a term which is supposed to admit of wanton in-
famies almost beyond description. These are our privileges
as superior beings.

One of the ﬁrst reforms I wish to see is a complete change
in the attitude of man’s mind towards animals. I recall the
words of HUXLEY, who was no sentimentalist and no crank,
but a hard matter of fact scientist and a plain dealer in
commonsense and truth, and he said-—

“ There is no question in the mind of anyone acquainted
with the facts that, so far as observation and experiment
can take us, the structure and the functions of the nervous
system are fundamentally the same in an ape, and in a dog,
and in a man. And the suggestion that we must stop at the
exact point at which direct proof fails us, and refuse to believe
that the similarity which extends so far stretches yet further,
is no better than a quibble. Robinson Crusoe did not feel
bound to conclude, from the single human footprint which he
saw in the sand, that the maker of the impression had only
one leg.”

The reasoning of the scientist is good enough for me. I
begin by believing in the nervous system of animals, not so
ﬁnely developed as in man, but existing and probably yet
to extend ; and I believe in a rudimentary mind in animals,
in some cases wonderfully capable of progress—a mind that
thinks, that is impressed, that understands. That being so,
‘every form of cruelty to animals is wrong, every wanton
pain inﬂicted is unjust, every deliberate torture is a crime.

 




 

7

Even Huxley who was not opposed to vivisection if,
as he contended, it could be proved for the good of society—-
and that was a mighty “ if ”——at once made the addendum
to his argument—-—“ A heavy responsibility rests on those
who perform experiments. The wanton inﬂiction of pain on
man or beast is criminal.” But, it may be said,‘many of you
who condemn vivisection, eat animal food, and therefore
kill these creatures you profess to love. The killing is true—-
I wish it was not ; but the argument is none the less a bad
one. MATTHEW ARNOLD said——

“ The right to kill and the right to torture are essentially
different, and the assertion that one right covers and includes
the other, is simply childish. The whole agitation against
vivisection rests on the position that between death, a quick
and easy death, and the inﬂiction of pain so severe and
prolonged to be fairly called torture, there is a great gulf
ﬁxed, and that the right to inﬂict the one by no means carries
with it the right to inﬂict the other.”

It is always with a deep feeling of satisfaction that I
turn to BLAKE’S simple and powerful poem on “Tiger, tiger,
burning bright,” with its searching question~——

“ When the stars threw down their spears,
And watered heaven with their tears,

Did he smile his work to see ?

Did he who made the lamb make thee 2 ”

We can answer rather than we can interpret, for we know
the new problem that arises, and we have to confess that the
beast of “ fearful symmetry ” may by compulsion be subject
to our injuries. But let COWPER, in his well-known lines,
help to solve the problem for us, giving us views of both
friend and foe. He begins, as you know, with the merciful
and humane doctrine, the true relationship between man and
beast :~——

“ I would not enter on my list of friends—the man,
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

An inadvertent step may crush the snail

That crawls at evening in the public path:

But he that has humanity, forewarned,

Will tread aside and let the reptile live.”

 




 

 

 

8

Then he proceeds, having laid down the general rule, that
a venomous creature if it intrudes and is a menace, must

die,——“ a necessary act incurs no blame,” and his con-
clusion, quite rational, is—
.. “ If man’s convenience, health,

Or safety, interfere, his rights and claims
Are paramount, and must extinguish theirs,”

and beyond this we can scarcely go. A time may come—an
Arcadian, Utopian time such as SHELLEY dreamt of,—-—when
these harsh necessities will cease, when man no longer will

“ Slay the lamb that looks him in the face,”
and when the birds, now in terror, will
“ Gather round
And prune their sunny feathers on the hands
Which little children stretch in friendly sport
Towards these dreadless partners of their play.”

This will be a new age, void of terror—but it is not an
age that the vivisectionist is helping to dawn—for it is the
age, according to the poet’s vision, when man will have lost

“ His terrible prerogative, and stand

An equal amidst equals——

Peace cheers the mind, health renevates the frame,
Disease and pleasure cea-Se to mingle here,

Reason and passion cease to combat there ;

Whilst every shape and mode of matter lends

Its force to the omnipotence of mind,

Which from its dark mine drags the gem of. truth

To decorate its paradise of peace.”

But how can this golden age come, how can the para-
dise be won, whilst the vivisectionist makes the world a hell
for animals? The claim that these men with the scalpel
will give us a better world is false; they are retarding
progress, they are spreading darkness, not light ; and they
are blotting out the hope of universal blessing and brother-
hood. No millennium is possible while a portion of nature’s
creatures are condemned to abject servitude and undeserved

suﬁering.

 

 




9

“The love of all things,” said JAMES RUSSELLe
LOWELL, “ springs from love of one,” and it is when
selﬁshness casts out love that victimising begins. Lowell
was pleading for the slave, and his argument applies as
strongly to the animal as to the negro when he says 2——

“ Whatever wrong is done

To the humblest and the weakest, ’neath the all-
beholding sun,

That wrong is also done to us ; and they are slaves
most base,

Whose love of right i, for themselves, and not for all
their race.”

MONTAIGNE said»—~

“ Amongst other vices, 1 mortally hate cruelty, both
by nature and judgment, as the very extreme of all vices ;
nay, with so much tenderness that I cannot see a chicken’s
neck pulled OE, without trouble, and cannot, without
impatience, endure the cry of a hare in my dog’s teeth, though
the chase be a violent pleasure. For my own part I cannot
without grief, see so much as an innocent beast pursued and
killed, that has no defence, and from which We have received
no offence at all ; and that which frequently happens, that
the stag we hunt, ﬁnding himself weak and out of breath, and
seeing no other remedy, surrenders himself to us who pursue
him, imploring mercy by his tears—has ever been to me
unpleasing.” And Montaigne follows with this most signiﬁ-
cant observation—“ Those natures which are sanguinary
towards beasts discover a natural propension to cruelty.
After they had accustomed themselves at Rome, to the
slaughter of animals, they proceeded to the slaughter of
men, to the gladiators.” Then he adds———“ That I may not
be laughed at for the sympathy I have with animals, theology
itself enjoins us some favour in their behalf ; and considering
that one and the same Master has lodged us together in this
palace for his service, and that they, as well as we, are of
his family, it has reason to enjoin us some affection and regard
to them.”

In all this the renowned French essayist was preparing
the way for a great English philosopher like JOHN RUSKIN,

 




 

 

 

10

who tells us that the two great mental graces to be taught
are Reverence and Compassion. In the code of unwritten
school law, he said, “it shall be held as shameful to have
done a cruel thing as a cowardly one. All inﬂiction of pain
on weaker creatures is to be stigmatised as unmanly crime.”
It was this noble idealist who, in 1885, at a public meeting
at Oxford, used these notable words—-

“ It was not the question whether experiments
taught more or less of science, or whether the inferior animals
had rights, but it was a question—What relation had they
to God ?” The primary offending against the principles of
mercy in men and the will of the Creator of these creatures,
RUSKIN went on to say, “ was the ignoring of that will in
higher matters, and these scientiﬁc pursuits were now
carried on in deﬁance of what had hitherto been held to be
compassion and pity, and of the great link which bound
together the whole of creation, from its maker to its lowest
creature.”

Taking the matter still further, RUSKIN, allowing for
the sake of argument that Vivisection might produce some
good, proceeded to show what its overwhelming demoralizing
effects were.

“ For one secret discovered by the torture of a thousand
animals, a thousand means of health, peace and happiness
are lost,” he said, “ because the physician was continually
infecting his students not with the common rabies of the
dog, but with the rabies of the man, infecting them with
all kinds of base curiosity, and promoting among them
passions of the same kind. This madness was setting
itself against everything that was once holy, once pure, and
once reverenced amongst men.”

Thus you see literary and philosophic men are unanimous
in declaring the kinship between humans and animals, and
in arguing that the inﬂiction of pain on the “ lower ” creatures
de-humanizes the so-called “ higher.”

“ Pity,” said COLERIDGE, when writing his poem on“ the
poor little foal of the oppressed race,” “pity——-—is best taught
by fellowship of woe.”




11

We get a sidelight on the feeling of medical men them-
selves in a casual remark such as is to be found in OLIVER
WENDELL HOLMES’S “Autocrat of the Breakfast Table.”
It is only a casual remark, and that is where its value lies,
for the autocrat was not discussing vivisection, but, the
occasion offering, he simply set out what was in his mind.
Here is the brief pronouncement--

“ In the long catalogue of scientiﬁc cruelties there is
hardly anything ‘quite so painful as that experiment of
putting an animal under the bell of an air-pump and ex-
hausting the air from it.” And then, the case stated, he
just adds this signiﬁcant sentence—“ I never saw the accursed
trick performed. Laus Deo ! ” I-do not think any comment
would make the. meaning stronger or clearer. The fact that
animals can feel pain and that they have fear is to me
convincing proof of the supreme design that they were not
intended to suffer. Nature uses pain as a warning against
danger. It is her signal to living creatures of what they are
to avoid. If, then, the animal has, in common with man, this
capability of realising through suffering where danger lies,
it is not for man to inﬂict pain because the creature is weak
and defenceless, or because it is inferior in the scale of
creation. The common capacity to feel pain gives a common
right to immunity. I have no more justiﬁcation morally
in cutting and maiming and mutilating a living beast than
I have to cut, maim, and mutilate a living man. There is
one law because there is onetouch of, nature. We are
linked by our corporeal suffering, if not by our mental
endowments, with animals.

“ There are those who imagine that humanity towards
animals and humanity towards human beings can in some
fashion be distinguished and separated,” said an anonymous
writer some time ago. They advance with almost equal
steps. The mere brutish callousness which cannot conceive
the pain of any other sentient creature, the physical insensi-
tiveness to the sight of suffering, the commercial instinct
which allows no thought of the misery it inﬂicts to stand in
its way—these are the enemies alike of man and of the
beasts.

 




 

 

12

“ The modern concern for animals grew up side by side
with the efforts to reform our prisons, to limit or abolish
capital punishment, and to free little children from the
factory system. The pioneers, like Voltaire and Bentham,
who did the most to rouse a humane sentiment on behalf of
their own fellow creatures are also among those who have done
much to discountenance cruelty to animals. Equally false is
the notion that science is necessarily opposed to this new
sensitiveness about the sufferings of the beasts. The two
men. who are the glory of our record in the natural sciences,
Newton and Darwin, were also—~the former far in advance
of this age—among the stoutest foes of cruelty to the beasts.”

Subtle questions as to how far different animals feel and
remember pain may be put aside for the moment. Even if
it were proved that the flaying of the turtle was but a triﬂing
inconvenience, the fact remains that the ﬁayers would be
subject to moral deterioration because of their business.
Cruelty in any shape or form implies degradation, a lowering
of standard, a loss of those essential attributes which go
to the making of the true man.

We do not envy those who only ﬁnd sport or exercise
exhilarating when it includes the tearing to pieces of some
panting out-run creature, or the butchering of a carted stag
which has made a frantic dash for life, or the coursing of
a screaming hare for the pleasure of betting men and roughs.
Sport can be exciting without bloodshed; exercise can be
good without inﬂicting pain.

If human feeling be petriﬁed in one case, it will cease to
be moved in other cases, and the cruelty of the field will
become, and does become, the cruelty of the street, and even
of the home. Familiarity with the evil tends to increase
of the evil, for it is wrought by want- of thought as much as
by want of heart. What we need is a high and generous
humanity which will refrain from the infliction of all needless
pain, whether it be upon the little osprey which is to decorate
a gentle lady’s hat or the bull which is to be carved up for
a British dinner.




13

Vivisection is quite an old custom, and is easily traceable
to barbaric times and to benighted thought. Modern men
may have improved on the rough methods of the past, but
the process and the underlying idea properly belong to the
age of savagery, superstition, panic fear, and ignorance.
The scientiﬁc vivisector has a remarkable individuality—he
does so much, and achieves so little, expects so greatly and
is disappointed so often. Like POPE’S hopeful man, he “ never
is, but always to be, blest.” He is to effect marvellous
cures, make mighty discoveries, conquer formidable diseases,
penetrate the deepest secrets ; all maladies will fly before
him—the most virulent and the most insidious ; and these
glorious triumphs are to be achieved by cutting open the
bodies of animals. Such is the promise. The fulfilment
does not follow. The theory is sublime ; but dull statistics
of continuous failure make it ridiculous. We could tell of '
a great many things which vivisection has not accomplished,
and we could tell of many great things accomplished without
the aid of. vivisection; but we can tell of nothing that
vivisection has done except to cause pain, horror, and death.
It has made men hard, and taught them inexorable merciless-
ness towards the lower creation. It has set up injustice in
the place of justice. And yet, after centuries of experiment
at any cost, it means simply loss, waste, and despair. No
worthy discovery, no benign cure, no proof of progress comes
as a vindication of the animal torturer, or as a compensation
for suffering and sacriﬁce. The rack has worked but has
wrung no secret from the agonized victims; the pages of
vivisection are smeared with blood, but are inscribed with
no truth.

However, fanaticism is proof against argument and
reason. Vivisection is a craze, and has to be treated as such—
a craze that is comparable, in my opinion, with the obscene
rites of Obi worship in Hayti or with Voodoo worship in
Ashanti-land. It is curious that at an early stage in our
literature the misguided enthusiasm of this class received
due attention. Thus MARK AKENSIDE, in his verses on
The Virtuoso tells us—

 

 




14

“ He many a creature did anatomise,
Almost unpeopling water, air, and land ; {
Beasts, ﬁshes, birds, snails, caterpillars, ﬂies, 1
Were laid full low by his relentless hand, 3
That oft with gory crimson was distained : .
He many a dog destroyed, and many a cat.

Could tellen if a mite were lean or fat
And read a lecture o’er the entrails of a gnat.”

You will observe that this virtuoso was quite in the
wholesale line, and that so long as he had something to carve
it apparently did not matter much what it was; neither,
we may suppose, was the object or the achievement of any
particular importance. Moral laws and natural pity would
of course be dismissed as contemptible weakness ; and
although nothing could be indicated in the way of gain, the
experiments would doubtless be acclaimed as acts or trans-
cendent virtue for the lasting beneﬁt of humanity.

 

 

 

LEWIS CARROLL (the Rev. C. L. Dodgson) once asked
this question——- i
“Is the anatomist who can contemplate unmoved the ‘
agonies he is inﬂicting for no apparent purpose than to
gratify a scientiﬁc curiosity, or to illustrate some well-
established truth, a being higher or lower in the scale of .
humanity than the ignorant boor whose very soul would i
sicken at the horrid sight '§ ” ' I
He could only suggest an answer by means of another ;
question— ‘
“ Can the man who has once realised by minute study
what the nerves are, what the brain is, and what waves of
agony the one can convey to the other, go forth and wantonly
inﬂict pain on any sentient being ? ” And the answer to
this being “ Yes,” LEWIS CARROLL was driven to the only J
possible conclusion, that vivisectionists were dulled or dead ‘
to morals, religion, sentiment, and compassion, and that
their intellectual culture had no connection with their .
humanity. Hence their deafness to “ the cry of anguish 5
from the brute creation ringing through the length and
breadth of the land.”

 




ROBERT BROWNING has a short poem illustrative of the
triumph of science over sentiment. It tells of a dog who
sprang to the rescue of a drowning man and brought him
safely to shore : whereupon the scientist said to a friend-
“Bring that dog to my laboratory, and I will extract its
brains and see how much thinking matter they secrete.”

SHAKESPEARE hit upon a subtle truth when he said that
the practice of cruelty, even if. the motive were supposed
to be good, could “ but make hard the heart.” The idea was
caught up by Canon LIDDON, who declared that vivisection
had an important bearing on human character; by Dr.
JOHNSON, who said that “ he buys knowledge dear who learns
the use of the lacteals at the expense of his own humanity ” ;
and LEWIS CARROLL, who in one of the most notable letters,
said—“ It is the purest and most unmitigated selﬁshneSS,——~
this torture oi the animal world—Selﬁshness is the keynote,
and 1 take vivisection to be a glaring and a wholly unmistak-
able case in point.” He emphasised his contention by
relating this iact—~“ I myself once heard an accomplished
man of science declare that his labours had taught him one
special personal lesson which, above all others, he had laid
to heart. A minute study of the nervous system, and of the
various forms cf pain produced by wounds, had inspired
in him one profound resolution ; and that was—what think
you ? never under any circumstances to adventure his own
person into the ﬁeld of battle ! ” There’s the courage of the
vivisectionist for you—the man who decries his opponents
as cowards because they pity a sufferer, and would rescue
four—legged creatures from the knife. There is the difference
between the man who inﬂicts the pain, and the man who
says he prefers not to be saved a twinge of pain. at such
expense; and there is the difference morally between the
ruthless experimentalist who dreads a pang to himself, and
the compassionate thinker who would rather be sacriﬁced
than sacriﬁce. “ The man of science,” wrote LEWIS CARROLL,
“ when vivisection is practised in every college and school,
can exult in the thought that he has made of this fair green
earth, if. not a heaven for man, at least a hell for animals ”——
and in the full enjoyment of that exultation we, the cowards
and sentimentalists, can well afford to leave him. But we

 

 




 

 

 

16

shall be sorry for human nature that it has declined so low,
and We shall regret that self has basely triumphed over the
ideals of love and mercy and righteousness.

In that clever satire by SAMUEL BUTLER “Erewhon,”
you will ﬁnd a curious chapter on “ The Rights of Animals,”
a question, says the author, that “ so far had disturbed
nobody.” But a fussy gentleman had the presumption to
tell his fellow citizens that “ Birds, beasts, and ﬁshes have as
full a right to live as long as they can unmolested by man, as
man has to live unmolested by his neighbour,” and he went
so far as to add that when a man killed a beast he reduced
himself to the level of that beast, which was “ unworthy of
people who seek to be guided by the highest principles in
thoughts and actions.” Needless to say this absurd heresy
led to all sorts of confusion, and the satirist had to leave the
unhappy story unccncluded.

I do not know whether Mr. H. G. WELLS is foror against
vivisection, but in either case he has written one story so
ghastly, so repugnant, so sickening in its details of animal-
torture, that consciously or unconsciously he has made
himself one of the most powerful of anti-vivisectionist
propagandists. The story to which I refer is not one of his
best known, for, truth to tell, it is so gruesome that only
people with nerves of steel can read it. The title is “ The
Island of Dr. Moreau,” and the subject is appalling ano awe-
some. It is none other than the conversion of beasts into
men by the most hideous processes of mutilation, grafting,
and surgical re-mouldings of their bodies. The island is
given over to these beast~folk who have, in Moreau’s words,
been “ dipped into the bath of burning pain,” and the story
tells us of the torments the creatures undergo at the hands of
the merciless enthusiast, of the horrible results achieved, and
of the ﬁnal ineffectuality of everything. I am only going
to place before you a few passages in Dr. Moreau’s own
explanation and self-vindication in manufacturing monsters
in the holy name of science and under the (usual) inspiration
of high purpose and good motive.

C

“ These creatures you have seen,” he said ‘ are animals

 




 

l7

carven and wrought into new shapes. To that—to the
study of the plasticity of: living forms— my life has been
devoted. I have studied for years, gaining in knowledge
as I go. I see you look horriﬁed, and yet I am telling you
nothing new. It all lay in the surface of practical anatomy
years ago, but none had the temerity to touch it.”

Here, I think, Mr. Wells in subtle suggestion, is
informing us of the likely, if not the inevitable, development
of the vivisectionist’s work.

Dr. Moreau’s companion asks—“ What is your justiﬁ-
cation for inﬂicting all this pain ? The only thing that could
excuse vivisection to me would be some application ” (of
beneﬁt).

To which. the doctor replies—~“ It is only the question
of pain that parts us. So long as visible or audible pain
turns you sick, so long as your own pains drive you, so long——
you are (yourself) an animal. This pain—is such a little
thing. A mind truly opened to what science has to teach
must see that it is a little thing—~so, I went on with the
research just the way it led me. I asked a question, devised
some method of getting an answer, and got—a fresh question.”

Mr. Wells seems here to be caustic, and I think there can
be but little doubt as to his convictions when he goes on to
put these damnable excuses in the doctor’s mouth—-

“ These investigations give you a strange delight—~The
only thing I wanted was to ﬁnd out the extreme plasticity
in a living shape——I never troubled about the ethics of the
matter. The study of Nature makes one at last as remorse-
less as Nature. I have gone on, not heeding anything but
the question I was pursuing.”

To prove the deadly earnestness of the man, Mr. Wells
tells us how the doctor, in light-hearted fashion, described
a few of his early experiments. “ I took a sheep and made
it a thing of pain and fear, and left it bound up to heal. It
looked quite human to me when I had ﬁnished it, but when
I went to it I was discontented—it remembered me, and was

 

 




 

 

 

18

terriﬁed beyond imagination. These fear-haunted animals
are no good for manquaking. So I took a gorilla, and upon
that, working with inﬁnite care, and mastering difﬁculty
after difﬁculty, I made my ﬁrst man. All the week, night and
day, I moulded him-and I thought him a ﬁne specimen
when I had done, and he lay bandaged, bound, and motionless
before me.-——-So for twenty years altogether I have been going
on. Sometimes I rise above my level, sometimes I fall
below it. The human shape I can get now, almost with ease,
but often there is trouble with the hands and claws, painful
things that I dare not shape too freely.”

I need not quote further. The logical deduction is
supplied by Mr. Wells himself in a postscript which says——

“ Strange as it may seem, to the unscientiﬁc reader, there
can be no denying that the manufacture of monsters—and
perhaps even of quasi-human monsters—is within the
possibilities of vivisection.”

Why not ? Granted that vivisection is legitimate, and
that it serves high and noble purposes, why limit its opera-
tion ? Another degree or two of pain makes no difference
to the main principle. If it is right and lawful for the scientist
in the hope of curing a disease of the human body to

“Mangle the living dog that has loved him and
fawned at his knee ” '

as Tennyson puts it, it is equally right and even more praise-
worthy to mangle the same dog for the still greater purpose
of transforming it into a higher creature. Why stop ? The
law which allows the inﬂiction of pain will not be squeamish
about the exact amount—a few more turns of the screw
will not matter, nor can we ourselves so ﬁnely discriminate
as to declare that pain to the third degree is just and pain
to the tenth degree unjust—~we say “ All or none.” And
therefore We might fairly challenge the Vivisecting fraternity
to carry out their benevolent practices to the ultimate
stage, and, if wrong may be permitted that right may ensue,
let them not shrink from the greatest of all wrongs that will
bring the greatest of all beneﬁts. We are not so very far
distant from the time when our enthusiastic researchers did

 




 

 

 

 

 

19

not scruple to vivisect the human body, and showed no ex.
treme sensitiveness as to whether that body were living
or dead. Those men were far wiser, if less cautious, than the‘
modern blunderers who imagine that by dissectinga rabbit
they will discover the mystery of the human anatomy, and
who with all their technical knowledge yet fail to appreciate
the fact that the structure, system, and blood of birds and
beasts are essentially different from men’s. But to admit
this would rob them of their last excuse for their loathsome
deeds—and therefore the rabbit and the dog must suffer to
make a vivisector’s festival. Oh that a million voices would
join with LEWIS MORRIS in the fervent declaration—-

“ For this goddess, Science, hard and stern,
We shall not let her priests torment and burn.”

The test of the sincerity of the vivisectionist has
also been expounded by LEWIS CARROLL. “ When,” he
said, “ I hear one of these ardent searchers after truth giving,
not a helpless dumb animal, to whom he says in eﬁect—‘ You
shall suffer that I may know,’ but his own person to the
probe and the scalpel, I will believe in him as recognising
a principle of justice, and I will honour him as acting up to
his principles.” It is a shrewd thrust. But the vivisector
ignores it. If there is one thing that the mutilator of defence-
less animals believes in it is vicarious suffering—anybody,
anything but himself. His fearlessness is reserved for
causing and viewing the agony of others. And I am disposed
to agree with those critics who say that, however much
these gentry protest that their object is the welfare of
humanity, another, and not the least reason, is—~in the words
of Dr. ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE—5‘ the interest of the
research, and the reputation it gives; ” or, as the novelist
OUIDA expressed it——“ a means to an end, the end being
money, celebrity, suCcess.” Once more does Selﬁshness
make itself manifest.

It would be a very easy matter to tell you what is the
general attitude of literary men to the animal creation, and
to produce a hundred or a thousand references to their
abhorrence of all cruelty, whether it take the form of sport
or research. To the poet WILLIAM BLAKE it seemed possible
that

 

 

 




 

20

“ A robin red-breast in a cage,

Puts all heaven in a rage,

A dove-house ﬁlled with doves and pigeons
Shudders hell through all its regions,

A dog starved at his master’s gate
Predicts the ruin of the State.”

The gentle GOLDSMITH said——

“ No ﬂocks that range the valley free
To slaughter I condemn,

Taught by the Power that pities me
I learn to pity them.”

WORDSWORTH, after telling the moving story of the
wounded hart, bade his fellow-men

“ Never to blend our pleasure or our pride
With sorrow of the meanest thing that feels.”

And SHELLEY, supreme in mercy as in idealism, set
forth the example of ALASTOR—

“ No bright bird, insect, or gentle beast,
I consciously have injured, but still loved
And cherished these my kindred.”

We recall ROBERT BURNS overﬂowing with tenderness
for his dying ewe ; for “ the wee, sleekit, cow’rin’ timorous
beastie,” the mouse, whom he unnested with his plough
and condoled with as “ a poor earth-companion and fellow-
mortal ; ”—for the waterfowl he scared ;——for the wounded
hare he saw go limping by. We think of BYRON who found
that his dog had been the only true and faithful friend of his
life, and at once our thoughts ﬂy to other noble tributes—-
to “ Rab and his Friends,” to OUIDA’S “ Toxin,” and to Mrs.
BROWNING who surely spoke the unquestionable word in
her praise of the human-like “ Flush ” who had stayed with
her in a sick room and shown intelligent sympathy with her
in her illness ;

“ Loving fellow-creature,”

she exclaimed, and a fellow-creature he had proved himself
to be When——

 




21

“ If one or two quick tears
Dropped upon his glossy ears,

Or a sigh came double,

Up he sprang in eager haste,
Fawning, fondling, breathing fast
In a tender trouble.”

Books have been written on the Rights of Man and
the Rights of Woman ; I hope someday there will be a solemn
volume of fact and logic on the Rights of Animals. But we
can contend with a good deal of forceful truth that in
reality the rights of human beings are likewise the natural
rights of the brute creation—“our weaker brethren, our fellow-
creatures on the lower plane, entitled by their very weakness
and inferiority to our protection, and not as the vivisec-
tionists would have it, exposed to our attack. This is the
thought enshrined in WILLIAM WATSON’S lines——

“ If none entitled is to bind me down,
And rend, and mar, and rack, and break, and ﬂay me,
None hath a title so to ravage you.”

Nature’s law holds good throughout the world of nature
———it is King’s law in an established Kingdom, with no ex-
ceptions, no quibblings, no reversals, no deﬁant violations.
Remember, as SHAKESPEARE tells us, that the poor beetle
that we tread upon. feels as great a pang as when a giant
dies ; remember that in pain as well as in joy we are linked ;
and then the inevitable conclusion follows.

Science has gone far to prove the truth of SHELLEY’S
daring assertion that——
“ Those living things——
The fragile blade of grass that springeth in the morn
And perisheth ere noon—is an unbounded world——

Those viewless beings
Whose mansion is the smallest particle
Of the impassive atmosphere—~—
Think, feel, and live like man.”

“ These are my brethren,” said ST. FRANCIS of the birds
that gathered about him, and whom he tended lovingly as
members of one vast family—the family of all living creatures.

 

 

 




 

22

“ There’s a certain respect, a general duty of humanity,
to beasts that have life and sense,” said Montaigne. “ We
owe justice to men, and graciousness and benignity to other
creatures that are capable of it, there is a certain commerce

and mutual obligation betwixt them and us.”

When I discuss vivisection, I discuss cruelty to animals
in what I hold to be its most odious and pernicious form,
for it is the deliberate inﬂiction of pain upon harmless,
innocent, and defenceless creatures, and the act is accom-
panied with unctuous protestations of good motives which
we know to be false, with pious apologies which we know to
be hypocritical, and with professions of benign and proﬁtable
results which we know to be lies. The act, hideous in itself,
is the more hateful, because of the web of sophistry and men-
dacity in which it is veiled~—-a web of delusions which
unfortunately prevents many people from seeing and
realizing its actual malignant character.

I would concede—though very reluctantly—that a
higher and lasting good vindicates a temporary evil; I
would concede—though very reluctantly—that to obtain
a substantial gain we might do a little wrong; I would
concede-though very reluctantly—that the end justiﬁes
the means. Morally I believe each of these contentions to
be unsound, and that they are certainly opposed to all our
legal doctrines which do not, for instance, permit robbery
in order to build up a prosperous business, or murder in
order to get rid of a pestilent enemy. But it seems that
different and very special laws prevail in the world of science,
where a man may murder to dissect, where he can sacriﬁce
a hundred beasts in the hope of discovering the secret of
the working of a gland or in the expectation of some day
curing somebody else’s tumour. The mere fact that these
hopes are proved vain, and that nothing has yet been done
to justify the inﬂiction of pain on a single mouse—to say
nothing of a dog—~counts for nothing with the enthusiastic
operator. His motto is “ Try again,” no matter how the
living victim agonizes.

But I deny that the Scientist can claim rights denied
to all other members of the community—~—I deny that he
can depart from the standard of right ; I deny that he can
transgress the laws of nature which, by giving animals a

 




 

 

 

 

23

nervous system and sensitivenes to pain, proves that wanton
and unnecessary pain they should not be called on to endure—~—
and 1 ﬁnd myself echoing the words of the famous essayist,
MONA CAIRD, who asked why there should be exceptional
laws in favour of the physiologist, that “he alone should
be held justiﬁed in pursuing legitimate ends by illegitimate
means.” If he can set up such a preposterous claim, why not
others—the lawyer, the tradesman, aye, and the potential
criminal? Right is never born of wrong. - Nature teaches
that pain is an evil to be avoided ; he who inﬂicts it is an
offender against Nature’s law. I indict the vivisector as a
rebel, none the less dangerous and malicious because he
boasts that he wishes to offer protection and that his intention
is benign.

There are no better known lines than those with which
COLERIDGE concludes his story of the Ancient Mariner and
the slaying of. the Albatross—lines which are a moral summing
up and a solemn exhortation——

“ He prayeth well, who loveth well
Both man and bird and beast.

He prayeth best, who loveth best

All things both great and small ;
For the dear God who loveth us,

He made and loveth all.”

The very simplicity of. the words gives them power—~—~
they are a statement, amounting to a conviction, of a truth
in the poet’s mind of the oneness of all created beings, of
the divinity of the links that unite the highest with the lowest,
and therefore of the necessity of a love passing from one to
another—just as God’s love passes from His supreme height
to mankind, so man’s love should pass from his height to
that lower stage occupied by bird and beast. The few lines
contain in reality, not only a potent moral but a subtle
argument ; if it be accepted. there can be no thought hereafter
of the wanton inﬂiction of pain upon an inferior creature——
for all that lives is sacred alike—all comes from the same hand.

One of the most brilliant of our younger poets, LASCELLES
ABERCROMBIE, has, among his works, an Ode expressive of
indignation that this is an age of lassitude and apathy which
permits evil to walk abroad unpunished and unsubdued,
and that the Spirit of just anger which was once as a sword
to hew down villainy, ~110w

 

 

 




 

 

24

“ Stands and looks on infamy,

And unabashed the faces of the pit

Snarl at their enemy

Finding him wield no insupportable light
And no whirled edge of blaze to hit
Backward their impudence.”

Wherefore, the poet cried :—

“ Wilt thou not come again, thou godly sword,

Into the Spirit’s hands ?

That he may be a captain of the Lord

Again, and mow out of our lands

The crop of wicked men? V

Now that wrath comes never out to ﬁght,

The ﬁendish bands go lording in the day
. And openly possess the mind of man.”
How long, asks the poet, shall the Spirit see the life of man
corrupted,

“ Trampled and staled and trodden filthily

By troops of insolence.”
How long shall hearts be wounded with grievous laws, how
long shall beauty be banished and mercy be unknown if “ I
would,” he exclaims,

“ That to the world would come again

That indignation, that anger of the Lord,

Which once was known among us men.

For terrible and upright then

The spirit would stand suddenly out of his ways

*Of crouching grief and tears,

As by a hilt handling the wrathful blaze,

Having again a sword.”

I apply these words to the vivisectionists, I apply them
_ in a just hatred of their ways, I apply them as a human
being to the inhuman beings who have forgotten duty to
the lower creatures, and'justice to all living things; I apply
them to those who know not mercy, and who wring our
hearts with the diabolically useless deeds which desecrate
the very name of Science ; and I say with our poet-—

“ O for that anger in the hands

Of Spirit ! To us, 0 righteous sword,

Come thou and. clear our lands,
0 ﬁre, 0 indignation of the Lord !

FINIS.

 

 




 

“ The Cause which you are invited to support is a Cause
which is twice blessed. By working to relieve animals from
cruel pain and horrible torture, you not only relieve them, but
you elevate mankind. You do more, you ennohle the great
profession which devotes itself to the art of healing.”

——SIR ARTHUR ARNOLD.
Many eminent Scientists, Medical Men and Surgeons
have condemned Vivisection.
Here are just a few names from among a large number :—-—
WALTER R. HADVVEN, M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., etc.,J.P
GEO. WILSON, M.D., LL.D. Edin., Medical Ofﬁcer of Health
for Warwick.
DR. BIGELOW, Professor of Surgery at Harvard University.
GEO. MACILWAIN, F.R.C.S.
JOHN H. CLARKE, M.D., London.
CHARLES BELL-TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.C.S.
JAMES BURN ET, M.A., M.D., etc., Senior Clinical Tutor of
the medical wards of the Royal Inﬁrmary, Edinburgh.
HENRY LEE, F.R.C.S., Late Senior Consulting Surgeon to
St. George’s Hospital, formerly Lecturer in Pathology and
Surgery to the Royal College of Surgeons, England, 1898.

 

IF YOU WANT VIVISECTION To RS ABOLISHED
join the
MANCHESTER, SALFORD & DISTRICT BRANCH,
BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION or VIVISECTION.

Send in your name, with subscription or donation to—-—
The Secretary, The Anti-Viviseetion Society,
2 Victoria Street, Manchester.

In the case of benefactors desiring to bequeath legacies
in support of the Cause, they are respectfully urged to clearly
state in their Will, “ THE MANCHESTER, SALFORD AND
DISTRICT BRANCH, BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION or
VIVISECTION.”

“ I am without words to express my horror of vivisection,
though I have been a teacher of anatomy and surgery for
thirty years. It serves no purpose that is not better served
after other manners.”——-J. E. GARRETSON, M.D.,

SENIOR PROFESSOR OF SURGERY.

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 




