To E’Eeet Herc

chrcscntativcs of humane
societics from throughout the
state will assemble here
today and tomorrow at the
Cherry Plaza Hotel to dis—
cuss ways and means of
making their efforts more
effective.

\ The Florida. Federation of‘
Humane Societies’ s p ri n g‘
convention will begin at 1.]
pm. with a roundtable dis-
cussion of various problems

facing societies. J‘. C. (Jake)
Stone Jr., president. of the
h 0 st 0 r l a n do Humane,
Society, will welcome the
delegates.

THE 7 RM. banquet will!
feature a talk by Mrs;
gChristine Stevens, president'
of the Animal Welfare In-
stitute of New York City and;
one of the most effective}
lobbyists for humane legisf}
lation Washington has ever:
seen. 2

Annual meeting with i

is scheduled for
tomorrow. The
ad‘iourns at noon.

 




 

Orphanage
for Pets

Furry foundlings love it

ANN ARBOR, Mich.
ASHTENAW COUNTY here has a great
idea other places will want to copy.

It’s a real orphanage for pets.

In 8 months, it’s harbored 2,863
animals—dogs, cats, rabbits, muskrats, rac-
coons, pigeons and even a few skunks, all
homeless. And many wanting adoption by
some pet-loving family!

a Best thing about the “pet orphanage”: it’s
not like old—fashioned “dog pounds.” It’s air-
cooled, with pleasant rooms for “guests.” The
Matthaei Foundation built it (cost: $100,000)
and donated it to the Humane Society.

0 Newcomers get a physical examination, a
bath and tags, with notations like “GWC”
(good with children) or “LB” (loud bark).

 

SHELTER INVITES children to visit the dogs daily. Orphan pups in their private,
outdoor runs eagerly await visiting hours. For them it may mean adoption.

0 In this modern
orphanage, living a

dog’s life is a pleasure

SICK DOGS and ”biters" get special at-
tention in well-equipped isolation ward.

FUTURE PET-OWNERS get instruction on animal care from Mrs. Roger L.
Stevens. She's head of the volunteer committee operating the Shelter.

   

1, V, . ._ ’ ’ '
«‘1», i -. 3:; lf° “z“.w

.-

  
   

EACH DOG has his own drinking
fountain in a neatly tiled kennel.

    

A»

.A a i

SWINGING Plexiglas door makes
it easy for pups to enter and leave.

 

 




(Mailing to names of peeple participating in Cleveland

Convention — 82 ~ those not marked with check on list”

Dated November 7, 1951 u Enclosures: Prospectus
Brochure)

November 9, 1951

Dear Mr; & Mrs. Benjamin:

When you were at Cleveland for the convention of
the American Hemane Association, you may have been
given a copy of our prospectus. In case you were not,
I enclose one for your information.

The Animal Welfare Institute is new, it is con-
structive, it has a purpose in which you will certainly
be interested. 'We have tried to set forth clearly our.
aims and plans. Yen may have some ideas about than.

Your comments and opinions, and any suggestions

which you might wish to make, would be valuable and
very much.apprecieted.

Sincerely,

Christine ﬁtevene,
President

Kr. 8c Mrs. 9w; 36111381111:

Montgome ”Cougtzr‘ﬁﬁmene Society,
320 F or eyeﬁue,
D on, Ohio.

 




v ._ ----wu.l.l0.

A LETTER — AND ANSWER

Mar. 10, 1958
iGaines Dog Research Center,
250 Park Ave., New York 17, N, Y.
Att: Harry Miller, Director.
Dear Mr. Miller:

I am enclosing some circulars which
I have received from various well
meaning friends, from time to time.
These depict horrible and extreme
cruelties to which cats and dogs are
supposedly subjected, as a means of
conducting SCIENTIFIC and MEDI—
CAL EXPERIMENTS. Will you in»
form me as to whether or not such
conditions do exist today? If they
do, it’s high time that we arouse our
law-makers and put a stop to it.

Sincerely — E. G. Emanuel, Editor.

March 14, 1958.
Mr. E. G. Emanuel, Editor,
The National Stock Dog Magazine,
Rt. 1, Butler, Indiana.
Dear Mr. Emanuel:

Thank you for your letter of Mar. 10.
The pamphlets and circulars which
you have enclosed have, of course,
been circulating for a number of
years. The conditions and treatment
of experimental animals as depicted
in these circular letters perhaps did
exist 13 or 15 years ago. However,
as far as we are aware, they no longer
are true. A great deal of control is
now exercised over medical or scien-
tific experiments involving the use of
live animals. Much of this control is
the result of the efforts of the Animal
Welfare Institute, who, recognizing
the de facto status of animal experi-
ments, set about bringing those ex-
periments under supervision. Along
with this movement by animal groups
was the recognition by the medical
profession, itself, that useless or rep--
etitive experiments, as well as inhu—
mane treatment, had no place or val-
ue in a truly scientific program. It
is suggested that you write to Dr. Sol
Michaelson, D. V. M., Chief, Radiation
Therapy Section, University of R0-
chester School of Medicine, Rochester,

(continued on next page)

L

N. Y., for a copy of his thorough re-
port on the use of the dog in medical
research. In this report, Dr. Michael-
son brings out the reasons for using
the dog, how the medical profession
policies the experiments and how it
welcomes inspection by interested
groups or individuals. Trusting that
the above will be of some help and
consolation, with all good wishes,
Sincerely yours,
Harry Miller, Director.

 




hospital Tepics

April, 1952

Animal Welfare Institute Establish

The bitter controversy between anti-vivisection
research scientists, and the urgent need for greater
tection of laboratory animals, were chieﬂy responsi
for the recent establishment of the Animal Welfare In-
stitute, a nation-wide organization with headquarters in
New York City.

Recognizing the need for bridging the wide gap now
existing between the two groups, with regard to the use
of animals for experimentation, Christine Stevens, Ann
Arbor, Mich., ﬁrst made a comprehensive study of the
subject, and then organized the Institute to “establish .
some middle ground on which sincere humanitarians might ’
meet and work for the welfare of both men and animal, '

The stated aim of the institute is: “To promot
welfare of all animals. To reduce the total of p
ear inﬂicted on animals by man.” .‘

 




 

 

OU USE ANIMALS IN YOUR W0
you will be interested in the
ANIMAI. WELFARE INSTITUTE

730 Fifth Avenue
New York 19, NY.

An organization interested primarily in the
housing and care of laboratory animals; the dis-
covery of suitable methods of procurement with-
out ieopardizing constructive humane work; the
establishment of a standard code of ethics for
the use of laboratory animals. The Institute be-
lieves that science and humanitarianism should

complement each other; and acts as a clearing

house for information on laboratory animals.

D ASSOCIATE MEMBERSHIP ($10.00): open to organiza-
tions and individuals. Entitles member to full publica-
tion, information services, invitations to membership
meetings. (Non-voting)

El CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP ($2.00): open to indi-

viduals only. Entitles member to regular periodical

REPORTS. (Non-voting)

 

[3 Please send me additional information. I am interested
in the Institute.

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY

 

 

 

 

 

 




WSW 22222222222 Val. 6, We. 5 «- ~J22ns, 1952

EBX‘I‘URIWX:

l

2322.2:cs 2:22: animal Malian: 122222.: 2222:: Was famdsd iaat 3:22am by a“ . Hagar imam. ,
daughter at" pivsislsgist 2222:2222. 22:22:22.2 ,2 22:22:22: has has: casaasidsaamaas WWQ‘WIEWWI as
to its true was and its pmbabﬁs affsct 2:2: sameriaaantal 22222621221222: in 2:15.22» swam-y.

In its pmspactua the: M21 dualism} a swarm vanadium: the 2222222222222 2222232222 22f
animals in medical research and presiding; for the: immvsmsnt of 1.221322222222323: adds}. cars.
Th6 lnstituta pmxdssd to sunny misting: and. pmpmad programs far the: :asna::.2:~a2:snt of.“
la‘bnrstam’ animals in ordar to discover the bass 23222222212 mashed.

What has an: Animal 27:21:":222‘22 Institute astuany dons so far?

The: AWI 2:2" malaysd 2:222: -:.:'::27‘ the mun-2mm mast 21213222222122 public mist: ans firms to
conduct a pulsiiciiy (:an subtly isaammiag the: mural Charaater cf scientists mc}
attacung'; laws which saw max-22st: Wags ﬁrm: pound gas chamhaare :32: 22:2: :22: 2222:: same
in mdi ta}. Btitﬁiii‘uﬁ- a,

The: {2‘21 Ems taken: a stand 22122312723322.2122 the: antivivisactiaanists 2222;222:212: all 22:2? 21222:: medical
imtitutions of Pisa War}: as an 0}}:‘2131125 2'12: :22?“ 23:22:: 2240222»: “'2. :; 2:13 gas-2:: 2: adds}: majnlatas
laborstsxiss and provides £23.? “12:22: 2522222312533222 22:? needed animals .

2m 1311351 “5.3.22 53:33.; ta: 22:22:“ 2:222:12222 33¢: 3.23%, 22212;." 2.22.: , 1 2322222221 223;? '3?:2i‘£i>3.ti.~a:;a“t.3..:'12:’:s , W
any grants or adwmatad saga 2:353:322sw. 2.: ‘22., 5:222:51: .i.‘ 32.2: 2:22:22: :21222222321: 2. 2-2.! awe mathods
or facilities a .-

We still 212: 2:“ 22:2: titre Elms maﬁhnsas 2:2" ”1:. 41.232211 2 -2223.“ 2.22:; hi2‘22'25f721: o . :5 only
1mm: what has Wa- d-aaa 2222.32. 312:: first, 2:22:2'2'222; :1: 1:. 2222;112:22222222; .2 .221 22.22;.- 222’22222‘22‘22 322: ﬂightsningly
mmniscaznt as: 22.22:: passage: in "3:22:22 32:21:22: "“1222: “swim: 2.2:: ML; ‘3 :2: 22...: 5 LL 2. hands
are the 2:222:22: mi“ Esau."

 




Mﬂﬁv
ﬂ")a

”i1“ I." $15,;qu “z I. L
, LL LLL LL ETTE
7‘7“. :5 ”I . L -‘ “Tu-1?“)
“Mam ., L
"55% LL": LwLEm E'
L'LLLLL’E 7" LET“

LL35? LL13 "WELL

$.49; 1’ ,i

L- 3"?
I Wlﬂﬂ' «MEI!

LL’LL‘LL "WELL? ,' '5 "
Liewm M I ”my? WWW

ﬂit- TLJJ‘L‘ WILL? 1%.... WWLLLL'

.45.
2:!“ 551““
255' :3,

M45

LLLLE TEE... L "LE LLLTE’TL LLLLTLT
3%,» LLLiZLV' Law L LL51. 3.553% M5” mki.
L LLLLL ‘sz LLLLLLLEL'LL‘
fWL"W PL. M LL LLLLLLLLL LELL’LL LiLﬁ'
ﬁgw W L”... If'j;L LLMML @371” " L“; :33};
mm. LLL EL LLLLELELTLL LELLL LLL
LEW... Hi). my ' .‘ifi-iEL-EL m, ELLE; :L
WEJL E3 ‘ETEL .Lw... LLLETEW,
LLLLLL‘LLL‘LLL
WW '"ﬂ’r m» Mm “Lg-Luigi Eii‘eimoﬁﬁg ELLE
LEELLEL L. LLLLL LL

LLL LLLLL
4:145“: if" ﬁght)“ E} "5:"? L115 “1;” "ta“? ;.

rtf*”;2¥1.’¢f ‘9

"H”: LLKL'T‘LL

ﬂmLLLL-LELLL.

x36“

9!
N Am?
mm“? .,

AEM‘L Lib

‘9". .

"PM 13".“
It, fﬁ’m’u.

'; ‘3 Lurk

Liv ,
“3%
“we 0‘;
LLLL.:.‘L LLL‘
5“ :4. '. .-.,, . M. ., 7:.
LL. LLEL‘LLLLLLLLLEL
. L M LL .LLLL
I“ L . I: {f
L; 13;; LE Ln 2" LEELE
an be: ?‘
LL. LEL- LL"

““7155 ‘7‘"

LL

L
Q‘Qﬁw sigma 55.

ﬁg: A”);

Mix:

"1"qu ; ..
WA (aim;

m
LL;

lﬂgfm ELI-K ESL. 7.»; ma iii?

'"ﬂLL-‘LLL 53% i3??? L "i"
3L3 ETT "FT” LL ' {LEE

3‘. o. ‘ F” k -\ f y
"3:?” ~" WHEEEKLL‘.

rt,“ Vim»;

Am? wﬁﬁ,
"7 ",I LL"

’5 59.1;

It ,; '19
‘iﬁ' LI:- M.

"3% ‘ ._ 31$; «w: {L‘rwim ":1 5,3:

.L L

«33"....53’ if v midi:

*Iv
in“

, m LEVEL
iLLiLﬁﬁfﬁ' 3-”,
LLLLT‘LE m.

WLLLLLWW 5L3
4331,13); ,.a.

5 3 My: 5-)":- L w as» do?"

g?! EL T’

fax-mm
‘3 g,
kw: LLMLLL a»
L. ELL 53% LELLLLLL Lg -

«L!

#35:

Ly

H E
Mai—«h!

. 'Y‘ t !:

{a
,. h..., .1» ‘ :35. ,—
3‘2” ‘ ~33; “TL-Lilac.

.- LLLLLL T2515 TL»... L. . LL‘LLLLL GLLL:
L m ”mm {:2- LL: .. LL... LLL
L L. LL-LLLLL-E Li L... - LEW
LE‘ “2%.. LLLL LLEL W LLLL "LEW
LLLLE :‘LLL , LE1... LEE W L LL TELLLLLE» LE
“ELL“ TL ”iLLLL LL .LL‘L L ,.L
LLL‘ELL‘T'TEETTTT" L... LES; LLL L
m EL "i LLLTE TL. LELLE :LL‘LTELL‘L;

1*?”ng $ ,. «ym‘ku

awn: wémiﬁm‘: (5;:

”1‘5"$)'«Q "‘
.LELs

“1“

g
1

am," T
Win

9?“;

7»:

Mia:

W55? 14% {3. Pa} 9“! W
i“

7.4% “a: ELL J» Lu

v-Lévxm. v‘4ﬂ

71’ El '1’
L WE WELL 22L. "LET-L" ELL L“: LT}. L. “L
m5$ Wu 1.1:.“ 3.63, £5,505“; mm 722;";

lmﬂmimia’ gi‘é ~55; living? :55? 3%.;

:LL

"hi1? ‘93
'ygﬁ...“ 1&5;

ELQ—ﬁéwﬁw‘ " L 4533" 1L"

3.4M

"33%- ML “EL-ELL LEL. E L... LIL-LL LL:

5“ pm ‘3"? LLL‘TLM. iii-LEE

45' M w ‘z' Lu i .5- rm
LLL’LELLLL LL. i1? 33“ E

‘ :1”, 1'41”. ww.

giﬁk {Li-1L Laﬁﬁﬁ 3.3 kw. mi?" L: $wa

LLLLL-LL

3-. 5’? li‘ru‘

. 29*; 3 : r
"V ALLJKME any-5* $15.;iﬁyﬁwz‘ng "He? 55'8“. 4M

LL-

‘!
3‘9
#:EAW‘

Wisﬁk‘iﬁé‘) aﬁi-ﬁ “QQ‘

«ghﬁwﬁ 554.9%

5 0;“; $45?le "5" ﬂ; 5“ «£13

Aﬁm

LIE
LLLLLL

Md.“ a?» ”ma 4:33
“I?” a T _ .J
“2,11 ~T"--T’WL

”5.1? r

Can

@2139- Q *3 LL”;

#1“! w
i W5, WEL ,' ,, V),
$143.45th

Km“. Law

”a" if???

W5”. g.
m??? 'gm
‘4' “Y W aw]??? 4 .
1 2" "WELL"!

L. vii»
LL? 4%}. may LLLLLLLLEE Luvs...
4'7". a. I. ‘3' A,
ELL LL“; LLLL- .E‘L LLLL L:

LLL .. L L?»
LEE LL —_ ;- LL
aka}: am my ‘5" ﬂ 33%.3‘)

5}”

“2L

LL - 3‘”; WT My“

LELEL"! (3%}... "W EL LL" TLLELL
LLLLLL LELL" "LL: LLL'LiL: -».:L
.LLLglE‘LL LLEL LELL LET-LL my
m.“ LL LLL... LLLLL T ”?:""LLEL TEL-L far mama
LLL LLL‘L‘LL ELL" T'vv'EELm"T"tim L L r-LLLLLL-L. LLELLL
LL: Wm . ' ix: "1% Ln LLLL LL
LLLLTL lrw .LLETLELLLL LL LL:
ML ’3 M m ma" “TELL“ "LL
WWW Liz-g 3.33:3: "3%? 3351? if"€§§.""'- LL‘ 3"“ gm??? WE'LL:
WfQLW LL LL. LLET L «,.LLL. :2;
“LL? M: in LELLL LLLRLLL TEE; ,
"TELL: ELLfLLL «.3 m
Lﬂﬂuﬁﬁfﬁrc

13,033
4d T

".11.; Jff- n.
now“

I):

) '"‘ L
1m
Edi

L 9 ML ,L L73: ‘ ‘

5:11:52: M5
[:2 ﬁg.

LLL
LE3 L. LL’LLL i:

T TELL. LLL L.
'1?

5 51/‘5EMQ, "
ix. WWW

4:“

K“

fitvn

”M9

“(X

(M "5405‘

_ 1.1;) .-
LLW .
LLLLL

‘3

52'1-

.,.,.'..,.¢
; .5555.
g.“ .ﬁxidn

IA“

'9? ‘5‘ kiwi“

35mg, 74? 3‘ Mg ”£3an

ﬁm.
in";

me
if" m“ 5.3L"? 3:535" «LE.
‘- ;3 LE»?- 4.3" imﬁmiw g" "‘5 ﬁx)?" ‘5'” my: ‘5‘
LL LLLLLL LLLLLLELLLLE; "EL

@iLLL

55

L w: 33v
§T¢ag§oﬁj

(”r-L
t‘ .'
4 _ .

"f
'1.

”LL-L

LLTLLLEWLm’

.1 .3?
4‘. 2;

r

L‘TLLL LL LL LL“; LLLLJ LLL" E
LL. LLLLLLLTL LLL LLLLLLLEL‘E‘. LL...
5:41.?!"25 T" LEI-L 1‘": L ”LEVEL EL“ LLWLL'IEWIJ
LL...» Lit"? 5%? L TTT“ LLEELi
Lif€um L 33L "ELL-L3 ELM
LT“ LL11 iLLLLLfmemm
L: LWE LL‘L L‘ELLLLLLL‘LLL
LL ﬁ'ﬁ‘ELLL ML.

ELL LL. ELL
Via"... Lilli. £1}: {If
may

”imam

.T- «Lu? LL‘JLLL 3.5
(LL?
‘ LL L3 ’1’ :11.sz .LLLLTLC’E ﬁrm
2;? LL“ LLLL “mm LEM-ELL.
:wa 6E3?" LL”; 23:33»; "3 L
W313?
3.3m LLL .; Law EWLELL LL?
“LLLLLL ETEr‘ L 2’3"" ' ,.
“m LL LL‘LL-..LLE

dim-6L5: i'
"‘L‘LLELJL
L WELL «L

:3”
#511}, 3-1:” “Irv.
9’" ‘BW
Lat-L

18mm 1

‘1».0; £35K»
LL- Li?
M52 re. .M ' . an.”

TILLLLLL LLEL LLLL

a; p;

MM?"

Lia/"‘6‘“ ‘1
E ‘Ivi'w'fr‘

{4-

L val?
3_I, 1‘
KWVEUUL‘

E22: LL: izﬂiﬁiﬁkl LLEiLiT L??? . 5
.1 17' ’Q‘ ’I
élggm 1'3; Liz» £26 5&3.- $9 a» ILL-«muggww’
TLLLEWE ELLL‘LLL
€131 ‘T E is;

«J‘vﬂm

”Egah‘yrm,‘ {L
a.

5:” ”1B4; Iﬁgwr

was?

LLLLEWRL
L 5L: "

“:11: ”a;
mL-L'

Lot}

Ip-ijm
“'3

LE ELLL‘LLLL LL: L.
L 33. LL

LL23.

LTEL

W

LLLLLLLELLL.

i
Y
Q;

T». '15 . 9," {‘4 5?}
LL CLKLLLL’. “E
L ‘ LLLE‘L L

Law
5

.,..:. «g5 . ‘1; Z" ; ,Lx: '. .
LL. ?L-'T{:é.£”§ Luigi. £5: i. L
:zngEz‘LLLLLL LLLL
T- ‘ m LSLLLL?" ILL-LL {LL23
at“.
K "S 5 aim: $253 ‘LL— *ﬁ3

:3 '31-. Q?
_,.~ «s .
X'L‘L ﬁvi‘vis‘ in» niacin

L- m; LL13?“

5.

MALL LL,

3. LL...
W‘ﬁ .LVQ’XL
béirﬂhﬁm

ML

ML

5";

L. mama a5» 5535 55$ LL-

LLTLL LL LLLLLE‘L LLE LL‘LLL LIE

LLLL E LL LL Lin-ELL. LLLL
LLLTLLL LL LL ”LL: LE ELLE

5“: Lﬁeiﬂﬂﬁ‘k ﬁwg} wiLnug

“Tim '1 L ELL

1'

gaﬁj‘wm £25“ ‘}"‘<&
”Q:‘ g» M
w?” T3" “€33

‘9
wvt U"-
”7);

1:3.”

"LEL

ML. TE"
ML»;

‘ L Liv-gig ; ‘ .,
3;; mi? in? MR}: 3:2ng A5555 €35";

 




FROM: John Scott Fones
Gramercy.ﬂewerAeseeiates
2h? Park Ave.

New York, N.Y.
Plaza 5~2200

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE APPLAUDS
NEW, HUMANE HOGmSLAUGHTERING METHOD

Eye of Anesthesia Beﬁore "Shackling"

and "Sticking" Praised

The lead article in the newest issue of the Information_

 

Report of the Animal Welfare Institute, out today,.discusses-an
"Important.New USe-for Anesthesia": the anesthetizing of hogs
prior to slaughter in the Austin, Minnesota packing plant of

George A. Hormel and Company.

'Ten:thousand hogs are received.daily at this plant, and all
of them-are now anesthetized Withhanmless~002 Carbon Dioxide,
converted.£rom dry ice, before slaughter; Pain.and fear for the
animal_are eliminated, and.at the same time the efficiency-of the

operation is increased.

The article quotes John.C, Macfarlane, Director of Livestock

Loss Prevention for the MassachuSetts SPCA, who made a recent visit

to Austin: "The.hog is no longer hoisted while kicking and twist-
ing to arrive at another level excited and exhausted, subjected to
great physical pain and often arriving with damaged hams‘» From
the moment they were anesthetized to the very end, they never

once regained consciousness."

(more) '

 




-2-
Also quoted at length in the A.W.I. Report is L. W. MHrphy3

of Hormel's Service Division.

"The new method of hanging hogs is the result of considerable

research. we realized that the cost of shackling was high, and a

rough job for both man and.hog; it was noisy and dirty and dangerous.

Good sticking is difficult With an active hog threshing about sus-
pended on a chain. There was a possibility of harm to the meat
from overheating a hog, and a shock condition caused by his climb-
ing a ramp and resisting the drag of the shackling chain.

Anesthesia was the answer."

At Hormel, hogs are directed onto a moving conveyor which
transports them to a lower level into which a tap emits blasts of
002, heavier than air, which renders them inactive and insensitive
for from 15 to 20 seconds. This period of time, according to Mr.
MHrphy, is more than ample for both the hanging and the sticking.
Also, if permitted to live, the hog will be rid of the 002 in less
than a minute and be able to walk away under its own power.
Unconscious, the hog proceeds along the moving ramp up to the
original level, waist-high to the Operator, where he is shackled

and hoisted for sticking and subsequent slaughter.

Meat from anesthetized hogs has been tested and approved in
Washington. Hormel has factored over 300,000 hogs to date by the

anesthesia method without losing a hog.

###

 




I i
,/

‘g/f FROM? ngnimal Welfare Institute
. 30 Fifth Avenue, NYC 19
JUdson 6-3180

FOR RELEASE: Monday, March 17, 1952

PROPOSED AMENDMENT To-HATCHgMETCALE LAW MItL NCT
HINDER MEDICAL RESEARCH, SA¥S CHRISTINE STEVENS.

"The amendment, proposed by Senator MacNeil Mitchell, to the
Hatch~Metoalf law does not in any way affect the medical research
provisions of that law," said Christine Stevens, President of the
Animal welfare Institute, an organization interested in the wel-
fare of animals used in medical eXperiments, todayo

"The amendment simply permits the State Commissioner of
Health to appoint, at no cost to the taxpayer, a representative
of the New'York State Humane Association to assist him in en-
forcing the rules that must be promulgated under the law. The
HatchéMetoalf law provides, among other things, that all animals
shall be kindly and humanely treated, properly fed and suitably
housed. The New York State Humane Society, which represents humane
societies throughout the entire State, has for over 60 years co-
Operated with all law~enforcement agencies in matters pertaining
to the care and treatment of animals.

"When the amendments are before the Senate for final passage
early this week," Mrs. Stevens added, "it is to be hoped that the
debate will be confined to the issue involved and not to extraneous
arguments, such as medical research vs. anti—vivisection, etc. The

question of anti-vivisection is not involved."

 




FROM: Animal Welfare Institute
730 Fifth.Avenue, NYC 19
JUdson 6-3180

FOR RELEASE: Monday,_March 17, 1952

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO HATQH%EETCALF LAW‘WILL NOT

BINDER MEDICAL RESEARCH, SAyp CHRISTINE STEVENS.

"The amendment, proposed by Senator MacNeil Mitchell, to the
Hatch-Metcalf law does not in any way affect the medical research
provisions of that law," said Christine Stevens, President of the
Animal Welfare Institute, an organization interested in the wel-
fare of animals used in medical eXperiments, todaya

"The amendment simply permits the State Commissioner of
Health to appoint, at no cost to the taxpayer, a representative
of the New Ybrk State Humane Association to assist him.in en-
forcing the rules that must be promulgated under the law. The
HatchkMetcalf law provides, among other things, that all animals
shall be kindly and humanely treated, properly fed and suitably
housed. The.New'York State Humane Society, which represents humane
societies throughout the entire State, has for over 60 years co-
Operated with all law—enforcement agencies in matters pertaining
to the care and treatment of animals.

"When the amendments are before the Senate for finalpassage
early this week," Mrs. Stevens added, "it is to be hoped that the
debate will be confined to the issue involved and not to extraneous
arguments, such as medical research vs. antiuvivisection, etc. The

question of anti-vivisection is not involved."

 




February 15, 1952

FOR: Barry Gray

Christine Stevens

Ann Arbor, Michigan
ACWIVITIES:
l. Founder and President, Animal Welfare Institute, 730 Fifth
Avenue, New York City. An organization which has chosen to
operate in the no—man's land between two long-feuding extremes:
the anti-vivisectionists who would abolish all animal experi~
mentation, and those medical researchers who favor unregulated
and unlimited use of animals for research.
2. Secretary, Humane Society of Washtenaw County, Michigan
(which completed last year a shelter which is the "last word"
in efficiency, convenience, comfort, and beauty. It has been
featured in articles in Progress Bulletin of Gaines Dog Research

Institute, in the current issue of the National Humane Review,

 

and in Parade Magazine, among others).
3. Newly-appointed Director of the National Dog Welfare Guild,
promoters of National Dog Week of Which Bob Hope is General
Chairman for 1952.
h. Author and illustrator of two books for children on the
care of pets. One is called "Kittens & Cats," the other is
"Ybu and Your Dog."
BIOGRAPHY:

Christine Stevens is the daughter of a Professor of Physio-
logy at the University of Michigan. She is the niece of Arnold
Gesell, noted psychologist of‘Yale University who has written

extensively on child care.

Interest in humane work began in Miami during war when her

 




husband was in Navy. Continued after return to Ann Arbor.

Got idea for Animal Welfare Institute when she discovered
animal quarters in many institutions are not as satisfactory
as most people think.

Discussed idea with many scientists and humanitarians who
convinced her there was need for a "middle ground" organization
which.would attempt, educationally, to improve conditions of
animals in laboratories.

Incorporated last summer, the Animal Welfare Institute
made its debut at the October convention of the American Humane
Association in Cleveland.

Members of the Advisory Committee include both prominent
scientists and animal protection people.

Attended November meeting of Animal Care Panel in Chicago.

Exhibited at December convention of American Association
for the Advancement of Science in Philadelphia.

Conducts surveys of animal quarters of institutions. Sur-
veys are for purpose of long range planning for improvements re-
sulting in better treatment of animals being used.

Acts as clearing house for constructive, practical infor-

mation regarding use of animals for medical research.

There are two available memberships for those organizations
or individuals who are interested in the work of the Animal‘Wel-
fare Institute:

The Associate Membership, open.for ten dollars to organi-
zations and individuals which entitles member to full publication

and information services of the Institute, plus invitations to

membership meetings; and

 




-3-

The Contributing Membership, entitling individuals only

to the Institute's Information Reports. Cost of this is two

dollars.

Apply to Executive Secretary, Animal Welfare Institute,

730 Fifth Avenue, New'York City.

 




.

Manuscript Service Texts of Broadcasts

‘

Radio R eports, Inc.

220 EAST 42nd STREET

NEW YORK 17, N. Y.
bleaRAY tiﬂl 7-6658

C?

$ecia/ [or

GRAMERCY NE” MLHV ESE

 

EWK'LFW' GRAB? AWL»

Berey

r-\ (’5 a
'5'

(13.11: “We We in? i‘ted «a. 13311;; .1
who wishes is speak on the subject a?
and heavy hunk of legislation at thie me
7!
up.

1e;

‘1?

e e

a“.
J

”Mrs. Stevens, bee ere yea?

3,

th nk you.“
GRAY: ”Well, Iﬁm very happy ehet
Mrs. Stevens a hand and make hee feel
you ever been on the air before?“
etetio

STEVENS: ”On a small lOeal

GRAY: 1.
gets up to
shorto It

9

mo

"Well thetﬂe wean thie
ebouﬁ 52nd Street e,ed§ We
stone short in emethe? dieec
of Gracie Square9 and that”
Tell meg Mesa Steveneg hee go you
president ef the Animal we1laee "
that?”

if};

inrzqf'v
V9 4 (f:
54

as.

61}

.39,
a... “I‘LL,

STEVENS: "It“s netienel oege,
welfare of animals, partieulaelv thee
has become, of course, a very large fie

and millions of animals being used each

 

CONFIDENTIAL

 

'" 3
;ek

e4

1k ebene

February 15m169 1952
ﬁISCUSS VIVISECTIOW

eve? ”AVA (W Y )2

In.

Ere. Christine Stevens,
1vieeeﬁion, a very bet
3%» Letﬁs bring her

113'.

W

beree Letﬁs give
(APPLAUSE) Have

ere
heme.

v
3'
J}.
l

.. W-
Flo

Very small; Our signal
matter of feet, it stops
tion ebeut a block south
the Weyer so efteno
the founder and

exactly whet ie

ewe
Ju

yen

”7!.
a.‘ la

etien promoted for the
in laboratory use, which
1d There are millions
yearn"

 

Chicago

’ Cleveland ’ Detroit ’ Los Angeles ° New England ' New York ‘ Philadelphia ’ San Francisco '

 

 

Washington




GRAY: "How many? hoe many millien?”

STEVENS: ”Thatls a figure thet ismit Reese. There is no
recorded statistics on that,”

GRAY: "Well, in other words, you understand that viviseotion
is necessary and what you do is mess sure that it is carried out
under scientifiCowin a scientifio messer, thet the animals are
treated properly." -

STEVENS: "Thetis our aim,”
GRAY: ”And how far does your eim go? Has it Worked?"

STEVENS: ”Well, I souldmit sey that eeqve covered nearly
the scope of the problem, wevre e see orgeeizetion."

GRAY: "How many members?"

STEVENS: ”That I canit tell 3-, fl hand, but we started in
July of last year and we've been s‘: 3g the problem, trying to
get as much information as possih u, all these different aspects
of it so that everyone can know, tr , been, es you know, an extremely
controversial subjecto"

GRAY: "And hows Tell me, how do you feel about people that
are antimvivisectionists?"

STEVENS: ”Well, we feel that their interest in the welfare of
animals is a Very good thing, but that the idea that animals can”
not be used and used humanely is iscorreet, end we wish to help
the animals which are used, because all of us are tremendously in~
debted to these animals, There has been e greet deal of good that
has come from their use, and yet they heve not always been treated
as they should be treated and our aim is to see thet they are taken
very good care of and not used ever ueeeoesserilyo”

GRAY: "What are some of the things that have been done that
were wrong, in your opinion?"

STEVENS: "Well, one of our serveys is the care and housing
of laboratory animals, and we've visited e considerable number of
laboratories in carrying out the survey, and there's a great varies
tion between the kind of ears and housing thet is accorded laboratory
animals in different laboratories, Some ere escellant and have both
good facilities—«that is, comfortable quarters, Others, unfortunately,
don’t meet those standards,"

GRAY: "Well, what I‘d like to get at is this. What of the
people that are very emotional and they send me pictures of animals
that are-~seem to be suffering cruelly with these experiments, Do
the animals suffer?"

 




STEVENS; "In some cases, they unquestionably suffer very..."
GRAY: "Is it necessary to cause this suffering?"
STEVENS: "In some cases it may be and others not."

GRAY: ”What good has come of these experiments with reference
to the good given humanity?”

STEVENS: "Many cures for diseases have been discovered and
preventive treatment through the use of animals, and that is some-
thing that naturally should continue to be found.”

GRAY: ”You supposenwsuppose the Metcalf- Hatch Bill or the
HatcheMetcalf Billa-incidentally. which comes first?"

STEVENS: ”That I donut Meow.”

GRAY: ”I want to give the proper Me lIow top billing. You
mustmodo you know, Mr. Millings? I think itﬁs Metcalfeﬁatch.
Suppose this bill is turned down amd the research labs do not give
the animals they need. Wat than?‘

STEVENS: “There are many ways, of course, of meeting the
procurement problem. That's one of the surveys that the Institute
is carrying out. Some animaleemof coarse, all the laboratory rodents
are bred for the purpose, and a13 sc3ent tats desire to know exactly
what the antecedents of the animals they are using are in order to
make the scientific accuracy of their exper3ments exactly right.”

GRAY: ”That would lead me to believe that they cangt use alley
cats than.” A

STEVENS: "In some cases apparently, it‘s not necessary to
have animals whose antecedents are known, but of course itVs always
much more desirable. The problem is, of course, the expense of
breeding, and that is one way which is used by many laboratories.
For example, the Atomic Energv Commission assauuor has bred for it
animalsmadogso~for use in radiation studies.

GRAY: ”To find out what will happen under any given circumm
stance to the human beings.'3

STEVENS: ”That's right.”

GRAY: "With reference to radiation and cancer and diabetes
and TB and so on. The many thousands of animals that are out to
death each year in New Yo“. k State. what has been done about them.
anything? Nobodyv-none of the vivisectionists seem to worry about
that, or antimvivisectionists.”

STEVE MS: "well, yes, quite often antievivisectionists are
very much concerned over the death of animals. That is a proven

 




fact. Some antiuvivisectioo personsg such es Irene Castle, do
have shelters in which they avoid putting eeimels to sleepo Hoea
ever, the humane societies generelly teke e more moderate View

of the problem and attempt to prevent sufferieg rather than to
oppose death, which Under the present cieeemstences is ineV1teb1e
because there are scewsuch a large number of animals being brought
into the worldo 0f courses thetﬁs one of the things humane
societies try to dew~is to prevent the birth of unwanted puppies
and kittens.”-

GRAY: ”How do they go about thet?”
STEVENS: ”By educating the publico"

GRAY: "Well, tbstﬁs very interestingo I'd like to beer about
tvkla‘t‘vom '

STEVENS: “Well, itVs an importset phase of the problem be»
cause if there aren’t enough homes for enimels, eellg neturelly..§“

GRAY: "No, what do they demwehet do they do about the animals
that just sender about the streets end propagate rather freely?"

STEVENS: WThose, of courseg meet be taken to a shelters”

GRAY: "Those are just poolroom types sod nobody cares about
theme"

STEVENS: "Well, the humane societies do care about thGMo They
need somebody to care for them, eed fortunately we so heve these
good organizations that try to take ceee of them and find new homes
or find their owners if they are lost rather then justoo."

GRAY: ”Don't misunderstand mes deer. 19m not trying to decry
the efforts of humane organizations; end certainly not the ASPCA°
I have great respect for them and everything these people are trying
to do, but I sometimes feel that emotion end feeling for other beings
is misplacedo

"I look rather cueiously st the situation where science needs
so many thousands of animals on one side tbet they censt getg end
they have to go to greet expense ens raise rodents and mice end
so On and pay herd cash for themmmwbiob they can 111 afford because
scientific research is so expensivea ﬁnd co the other bands I look
at a picture which takes MSOQOOO enimels eecb year out of oirculeo
tion through sleepaproducing causes9 end I can't see Why there cen9t
be a happy marriage between the tee so that we can alleviate the V
cost, at the same time getting a fee dollars into the state coffers,_
which we can use, and advance scienceo I just can't understand whatn-
where the mienmetch is and shy something isn‘t done to bring the two
together." -

 




STEVENS: ”WQ119 QQ Q mQQQQQ Q1 1QQQQ QQQQ QQQlly is QQQ of
the aims of the IQQQiQQQQ«»1Q 1Q QQQQQ1QQ Q QQQ31Q1Q system of
prochQmQQQ 01 1QQQQQQQQ§ QnimQ1Q QQ1Q11 Q111 QQ Qlele to scienceg
at the QQmQ timQ Q111 QQQ jQQQQQQ1QQ QQQ QQ1QQ1 QQimal welfare work
which 13 extremaly 1QQQQQQQQ QQQ MQrQP QQQQQ QQ as on, both from
QthanQ hquQQ QQQQQQQ 10Q QQQ QQQQQ1 Q QQQ Q1QQ for perfectly
practical QQQSQQQ in the QQQtle Q1 QQQQQ QQiles on the streets
Which of course is QQmching QQQmeyQQ QQQ“Q QQQ many stray animalQ
in QQQ York, for QQQQQlQQ”

GRAY: ”Q09 you dQnﬁﬁ ”

STEVENS: ”But in QQQQQiQ QQQQQ of QQQ country where humane
organizations QQQ few and fQQ QQQQQ Q9 QQQ have Q real problem of
t?l&t ki’ﬂd o W

GRAY: ”I QQQQQ MQQQ SQQQQQQQ 1 QQQQ QQu111 keep me advised
chQuQQ youﬁQQ QQQiQusly in Q mach b“tﬁﬁw QQQiQiQQ to know QQQtﬁs
going 0Q with 1113 QiQQQQiQQQ I QQQw wOMVEJ EQQQQ me advised and
QQ11 me QhQQVQ QQQQQQng Q1111 QQQ 1QI111QQ1 Q QQQ1 Qhat 3Qur or Qaﬁiza;
tion is dongg and itﬂll Q6 a QM ““1““ 1Q 1QQQ1QQm you at any time

STEVEQ32 ”QQ11Q QQQQ. k you QQQQ QQQQ Weﬁll continue to keep
watch and Qurvay QQd mQQQ inionaaycn QQQ ilableg and 19d like to say

that wegre very much iQQQQQQQQd 1Q QUFWQWQQ and information from
QveQQer WthS 1QQQQQQ thQ

GRAY: ”QQQQWQ QQQ QQQQQQQ 01 QQQQ Qrganizat10h?w'

STEVENS: ”Itﬁs 130 Fifth QQQQQQQ”

GRAY: ”SQVQQ Thirty Fifth AQQQQQQM

STEVENS: ”in New York” uthQQQ”
GRAY: "TQQQQ dogs do have mQQQQQ QQQWQ Qth?”

STEVENS (SHE LAUGHED): ”11m Qanid QQ ﬁongt gQQ much from QQQ
(3030 W

GRAY: "Thank you very QQQQQ Q1 QQQQ luck to 30mg"
STEVEQS: ”Thank yous”
GRAY: ”1195 Q QleQQuQQ QQ QQ 1Q VG QQQQO (APPLAUSE) QQQ.

Christine SQQVQQQ, fQquQQ QQQ QQQQidQQQ of t11Q Animal Welfare
Instituteo Thates 730 Fifth Avgﬂmﬂy QQ Q V0?k Qityom

 




The Aoimel welfare Institute

Late in l?51 there was established in the Uhdted States, en organize»
tion named.The Animal Melfere Ineitute. Its purpose, as outlined in.ite
prospectus, is to promote the welfare of all enimele end.to reauoe the total
of pain and fee]? inflicted on animals by men. The Institute primarily coneerne
itself at present with humane safeguards in the nee of animals for reeeeroh and
medicine. Thie is an aspect of humane work that has received little preetieel
attention in the United States.

The Animal welfare Institute 1e making etudiee of the following mattere:

l) the codes and greetieee currently in use regarding the handling and
use of laboratory animals,

2) eetimeteo on numbers, sources, and types of enimele being need for
research,

3) procurement of animals for research purposes

4) methods whereby animal suffering may be minimized endnumerical re-
quirements reduced.

The organization acts as a clearing house for information on animal
welfare and :ublishee periodically a bulletin celled ”Information Report"
which is being sent at present to a wide and verieé groue including the members
of the American Federation of Societies for Exoerimentol Biology and representam
tivee of animal protective societies throughout the United States and Canada.

It is a major premise of the Institute thet science and humeniterieniem should
complement one another. The Advieohy Committee comprises men.eho have distinguished
themselvee in these fields. The membership, likewise, is made no of persona engaged
in ecoentific work and those engoged in animal protective work. Headquarters are

at 730 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

The first public exhibit by the Institute woe made on Catcher l, 1$51

at the 75th annual convention of the Americen Hhmene Association at Cleveland,
Ohio. Since that time, the Institute has made coneidereble.progreee in eccumnp

leting feote and developing interest in the welfare of laboratory animals and

 




o ‘ ‘ I.

~ has been the subject ef numereue reperte in the preee ef the Unitea Stetee.

ﬁepreeentetivee cf the Inetitute were preeent at the ennnel meeting of
the Queerio SFSA at St. Gatherinee, Ontarie late in Oeteber enﬂ at the annual
meeting a? the Animal Care Panel at Nerthweetere University in Chicago. A booth
diepley'wee p eeenteﬂ at the cenventian ef'the American Association fer the
Aﬁvencement ef Science in Philadelphia in December. Feetmred in the heath were
photographs and ﬁlens of well deeigned animal quartere, photographs of different
species ef laboratory animals used for varieue purpesee and a statement on the
ethice 0f the use 0f these animals. Prospectus , a pamphlet bf cemmente con,
eerning the Institute fram persons in the fields of research and animal protection
end information Reports were distributed to a large number of persons attending.

The Animal welfare Institute is interested in receiving information
from research workers who are in a positien to suggest possible methods whereby
practical replacements might be made of higher mammals by lower forms of life
0r life in lewer eteges of embryonic development, or whereby properly cenducted

sacrifice experiments mﬁght replace same types cf chronic experiments.

 




PARTIAL LIST OE PAPERS USING~AP FEATURE ON CHRISTINE STEVENS

AND THE ANIMAL NELEARE INSTITUTE ~ RELEASED February 10, 1952.
Pager Circulation

1. DETROIT FREE PRESS (Mich.) 2/10 ~w. pix 873,00h
2. Youngstown, O. VINDICATOR - 2/10 - w. pix 136,000
3. Portland, No. SUNDAY TELECRAM - 2/10 8h,000
A. San Diego, Cal. UNION - 2/10 114,313
5. Lansing, Mich. STATE JOURNAL - 2/10 52,383
6. Carlsbad, N.N. CURRENT ARGUS - 2/8 5,h00
7. Ogden, Utah STANDARD-EXAMINER -2/lO 23,137
8. Monroe, Mich. NEWS - 2/12 13,365
9. Toledo, 0. BLADE - 2/10 - w. pix < 130,552
Corpus Christi, Tex. CALLER-TIMES- 2/10- w. pix 39.889
Battle Creek (Mich) ENQUIRER—NEWS-2/10/- w. pix 32,213
Jackson, Mich. CITIZEN-PATRIOT - 2/12 33,696
Saginaw, Mich. NEWS - 2/10 h2,059
Spartanburg,-S.C. HERALD-JOURNAL - 2/10 33,812

San Angelo, Tax. STANDARDﬁTIMES - 2/11 2h,l61
Sioux Falls, S.D. ARGUS LEADER - 2/10 44,931
Durham, N.C. HERALD ~ 2/10 - w. pix 28,255
Richmond, Ind. PALLADIUM-ITEM -2/10 26,893
Louisville, Ky. COURIER-JOURNAL~2,10 - w. pix 265,926
Charleston, S.C. NEW & COURIER - 2/10 5h,518
Indianapolis, Ind. STAR - 2/11 - w. pix 126,271
Total 1,935,0h8

W

(All returns not in yet)

 




TYPICAL

COMMENTS

. . . . about the Animal Welfare Institute

 




 

PROMINENT leaders in the ﬁelds of scientiﬁc research
and animal protection have commented most favorably
on the establishment of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Some typical observations:

CONFIRMING THE NEED FOR THE INSTITUTE

"I bane been greatly interested in tbe prospectus of tbe
Animal Welfare Institute. Your plans seem to me to be
sound and well worked out. Tbere is need for sucb an
institute. In particular, I like your constructive approacb
to tbe problem of tbe bumane bundling of laboratory
WWW” Lee R. Dice, Director,
Institute of Human Biology,

University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.

"I have great hopes that the Animal Welfare Institute
will be able to obtain some constructive suggestions for
solving our research problems and wish you all success
with this project.”

Rutherford T. Phillips, Secretary,

Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention

of Cruelty to Animals,
Philadelphia, Pa.

"I was mucb interested in your outline for a prospectus for
tbe betterment oﬁf tbe status of small animals in tbe role
they play in tbe eld of buman and veterinary bealtb work.
It is certainly time tbat tbe opposing factions are united
in an eﬂort to bring about bumane but continued use of

small animals in Ibis ﬁeld.”
D. B. Meyer, D.V.M.,
Division of Laboratories,
Michigan Department of Health,
Lansing, Mchigan.

“You are to be congratulated for setting forth so clearly
your aims and plans and when the program is brought
to fruition, 1t Wlll be a real contribution to all con-
cerned.”

Gerald R. Dalmadge, Superintendent,

The Palo Alto Humane Socrety
Palo Alto, California.

”Tbe outline indicates tbat you bane given tbe subiect
tbougbt and tbat tbose responsible for its preparation bat/e
made a good approacb.”

. V. Lacroix,

HE NORTH AMERICAN VETERINARIAN,

American Veterinary Publications, Inc.,
Bvanston, Illinois.




"It seems to me very well organized and certainly con-
tains the basis for the Animal Welfare Institute to
begin sound operation. Its purpose and scope should
be of extreme interest to everyone in the humane ﬁeld
as well as those using animals for experimentation.
The whole ﬁeld of animal experimentation and control
—including the source of supply—needs a study that will
be based on facts.”

Carlton B. Buttrick, President,
The Animal Rescue League of Boston,
Boston, Massachusetts.

ENDORSING THE OBJECTIVES OF THE INSTITUTE

"Animal welfare societies in tbe U nitecl State: :bould form
an organization comparable to tbe U ninem'tie: Federation
for Animal Welfare in England, tbu: git/in a terrace that
would wrist in tbe care and treatment of 1 animal: used
i" media” memb-" Albert H. MacCarthy, President,
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals of Anne Arundel County,
Annapolis, Maryland.

"I cannot help but voice commendation for the practical
and ambitious aims of the Institute in its endeavor to
promote the welfare of all animals.”

Tom Justice,

The Humane Society of the City of Columbus,
Columbus, Ohio.

"Tbe aim at outlined in your prospectus to promote the
welfare and reduce tbe total pain of all animal: 1: well
taken.” Harry G. Herrlein (Breeder),

Rockland Farms,
New City, N. Y.

"We will follow the development of your Animal Wel-
fare Instltute With much interest. The objectives seem
clearly deﬁned and very worth while.”

C. M. McCay, Professor of Nutrition,

Department of Animal Husbandry,

New York State College of Agriculture,

Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York.

”I subscribe one bundred per cent to your outlined objec-
tives. You seem to bane comprebensine knowledge of the
Problem and your approacb to revolving tbi: froblenz
.rbould bane tbe support of all bumane people an organz-
zdfionf and alto Iboula’ receive tbe conxideration of tbe
Ittertttjts.” B. P. Sook, General Manager,

Mohawk 8: Hudson River Humane Society,
Albany, New York.

 




“In my opinion your basic principles for the Institute
are sound and thoughtful, and I do not know a scientist
who would take serious exception to this statement of
them.”

Ray D. Owen,

Kerckhotf Laboratories of Biology,

California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, California.

3

APPROVING THE PROGRAM OF THE INSTITUTE

”An excellent job has been done in developing an 'outline
for the Institute. You have implied at several poznts the
need for conferences with all of the diﬂerent interests
”wall/ed", Sydney H. Coleman, Executive Vice-President,
The American Society for the Prevention

of Cruelty to Animals,

New York, N. Y.

"As long as the two factions sit with their backs to each
other, and call each other nasty names, they will remain
where they have been for years and make no progress
toward solving the real problem. But, if, as, and when
they will face about and gather around a conference
table, they can and will make progress which will beneﬁt
all animals as well as mankind.”

Dr. W. A. Young, Managing Director,

The Anti-Cruelty Society,
Chicago, Illinois.

"I am in sympathy with any organization which seeks to
promote the humane treatment of animals while at the
same time recognizing the essentiality of animal experi-
mentation in biology and medicine.

”I believe that laboratories engaged in animal experimenta-
tion should be required by law to meet intelligent require-
ments as to housing the animals and as to humane care.
I believe that all individuals who are trained to do animal
experimentation should be taught to give the animals the
best possible care and to avoid pain where possible.”

Dr. Dwight J. Ingle,

The Upjohn Company,
Kalamazoo, Michigan.

“We are much interested in the prospectus for The
Animal Welfare Institute. There has been a great deal
of guesswork about the extent to which animals suffer
and deﬁnitive data is highly desirable.”

Richard W. Westwood, President,

American Nature Association,

Editor, NATURE Magazine,
Washington, D. C.

The Animal Welfare Institute, 730 Fifth Ave., New York I9

 




John Scott Fones
Gramercy News Associates
247 Park Ave., NYC 17
PLaza 5-2200

FOR RELEASE: January 20, 1952 and after

$35 APIECE FOR STRAY DOGS DOUBTFUL,

SAYS ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Commenting on recently published reports that the U08. government
is forced to pay $35 each for stray dogs for use in atomic research work,
Christine Stevens, President of the Animal welfare Institute, an unbiased
research and information organization with headquarters in New York City,
said today: "Recently I was invited to visit the laboratories at the
Medical College of the University of Rochester and at that time I also
visited those of the Atomic Energy Commission, The information given me
there was to the effect that beagles, raised by farmers, were sold for
$35 apiece, for use in atomic radiation studies: I was told that the
purebred beagle (or part beagle) is the most desirable type of dog for
radiation studies and for this reason considerable efforts are made to

obtain them; and that dogs of unspecified breed, purchased from dealers

by the Rochester Medical School, cost from $6 to $10 per animal. It

appears that facts are being altered to arouse public sympathy for the
procurement of animals from humane Societies and certain other private
agencieso"

The Institute also points out that surveys by scientific organi—
zations show wide variations, both in numbers of dogs and cats needed,
and in those being usedo One survey, for instance, covering 50 leading
laboratories in New York State, indicated that in 19h9, 17,500 dogs and

cats were used, according to a spokesman. A recent report in.the press

 




stated that 5,000 of these two species were used in 1951 by all
laboratories in the state.
Mrs. Stevens Said that the Institute has the very complex

problem of procurement under constant study to determine the most

satisfactory method, and is not convinced that the solution to it

lies in the release of dogs and cats in unregulated numbers from
private agencies long established for an entirely different purpose.
This method has been tried in a few states and municipalities with

a resulting increase in cost to taxpayers, she saido

 




NOTES FOR A PROSPECTUS

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

 

CHRISTINE STEVENS
73o FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK 19, N. T.

 




THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE:

An organization founded by a group of persons interested in the promotion of
humane treahment of animals.

The Institute will be incorporated as a non-profit organization under the laws
of Delaware.

Its interests and membership will be nationwide.

Headquarters will be at 730 Fifth Avenue, New'York 19, N. Y.
PURPOSE AND SCOPE:

Theraim of the Institute will be:

To promote the welfare of all animals.
To reduce the total of pain and fear inflicted on animals by man.

While the Institute is interested in every phase of animal welfare, it will,
at present, concern itself particularly with humane safeguards in the use of animals
for research and medicine.

This is one aspect of humane work that has received very little practical
attention in the 0.8. As a result, standards for the use of laboratory animals vary

from.individual to individual, from.institution to institution.

At present, animal experimentation is a subject on which opinion differs
importantly:

l. Antivivisectionists demand the abolition of animal experimentation.

2. Some experimental biologists, deeming themselves hampered by unsatis-
factory supplies of animals needed for research and by antivivisectionist
activity, counter by demanding the forced surrender of unlimited numbers
of animals from public and semi-public sources.

Sincere humanitarians who have not opposed animal experimentation are
having their constructive work made difficult, and in some instances
impossible, by those scientists who react to antivivisectionist extremes
by themselves going to opposite lengths.

On the urgent problem of laboratory animals, therefore, the Institute will have
the following immediate aims: *

I. Care: The establishment of a code for the handling and use of laboratory
animals which would serve to implement existing legislation.

The Institute will interest itself in all species of experimental animals.

Research: The encouragement of medical research of the highest possible
quality as opposed to mere quantity.

The development of techniques that will reduce to a minimum both the pain
suffered by animals and the number of animals required.

 




3.

2.

Procurement Progrgmg: The survey of existing and proposed programs for
the procurement of laboratory animals in an effort to discover the best
method of satisfying the needs of humanity in the advancement of medicine,
public health, agriculture, etc., without jeopardizing practical animal
'welfare work or the general advancement of humanity through increasing
consideration for all living creatures.

SGME BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR THE INSTITUTE:

In its efforts to premote animal welfare, the Institute will be guided by
certain basic considerations:

1.

Animals feel pain (distress, anxiety,,discomfort).

There is every scientific reason for concluding that vertebrates are
capable of suffering. With the lower animals, the evidence may be less
direct, nevertheless observation even of the invertebrates strongly
suggests their sensitivity to pain and discomfort hence they cannot be
safely overlooked.

Criteria_for pain-infliction in scientific experimentation and standards
for its justification.must be established as clearly as possible.

No units exist for the measurement of pain. Nevertheless, criteria for
judging pain-infliction quantitatively should be defined. These would
include such factors as:

a) Intensity of suffering.

b) Duration of suffering.

c) The number of animals affected.

Justification for pain infliction in every instance should take into
account the above factors as they relate to:

a) The ultimate value of the experiment.
b) The feasibility of using other less painful methods.

c) The extent and degree of mental suffering (fear, anxiety,
worry, loneliness, etc.) involved in the procedures.

Study of all these factors should provide a means for deciding upon the
proper limitation of pain infliction. These means should be based on
the proposition that the end justified the means only if these means fall
within reasonable limits.

 

A broader ethics is imperative:

The ethical principles that will guide the work of the Institute have
been well expressed by Dr. Albert Schweitzer, world renowned physician,
clergyman and philosopher:

"Ethics in our western world has hitherto been largely limited to the
relation of man to man. But that is a limited ethics. ‘We need a boundless
ethics which will include the animals also."

 




3.

And again: "What does reverence for life say about the relations between
men and the animal world? Whenever I injure any kind of life I must be
quite certain that it is necessary. I must never go beyond the unavoid-
able......."

"Those who experiment upon animals by surgery and drugs, or inoculate
them with diseases in order to be able to help mankind by the results
obtained, should never quiet their consciences with the conviction that
their cruel action may in general have a worthy purpose. In every single
instance they must consider whether it is really necessary to demand of
an animal this sacrifice for man, and they must take anxious care that
the pain be mitigated as far as possible.......

"By the very fact that animals through these painful experiences have
contributed so much of value to suffering mankind, a new and special bond
of solidarity has been established between them and us. From this arises
the obligation for each of us to do every possible good to all animals
everywhere."

New developments may mitigate animal suffering.

The Institute's emphasis throughout will be on the needs of animals and
human beings.

While recognizing the importance of animal experimentation in medical
and other scientific research, the Institute will investigate and seek
to foster developments in experimentation whereby animal suffering may
be minMized.

Fields of investigation might include:

a) Practical replacement of the higher mammals by much lower
forms of life or life in lower stages of embryonic development
(such as chick embryos) with a view to reducing the suffering
undergone by animals with highly developed nervous systems.

Practical replacement of chronic experiments involving pro-
tractedgpnysical or mental suffering by preperly conducted
sacrifice experiments with a view to reducing the number of
painful experiments.

The efficient statistical design of experiments so as to effect
a systematic economy in sampling. For example, methods whereby
limitation of the number of variables introduced in an eXperiment
makes possible the reduction of the number of animals necessary.

d) The substitution of chemical andgphysical methods, whenever
possible, for biological methods in experiments or tests.

e) The means of avoidinggunnecessary repetition of experiments.
5. The middle course must prevail.

The Institute believes that humanitarianism.and science, far from.being
antagonistic, should complement each other if civilization is to progress.

 




OPERATION:

 

A.

It opposes, at one extreme, the fraction of opinion which would abolish
all antmal experimentation. It also opposes at the other extreme, that
fraction of opinion which dismisses the problem raised by animal suffer-
ing as trivial and which is willing to accept, as an unqualified justifi—
cation for this suffering, the general arm of increased human comfort

and knowledge.

The Institute will proceed on the assumption that all human beings,
whatever their specific beliefs or training, have a common goal of humanity.

It believes that by informing the public and arbitrating between extremes,
the Institute can foster a climate favorable to scientific progress and
animal welfare. ~

As Dr. E. C. Stakman stated last year in an address as retiring president
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science:

 

"There is a need for more understanding and tolerance between scientists
and humanists: properly motivated, all are humanists, and their joint
contribution can accelerate man's evolution toward intellectual enlighten-
ment and spiritual refinement."

To achieve the purpose and spread the viewpoint outlined above, even beyond
the narrower scope of its direct operation, the Institute will make surveys and studies
of such matters as these:

1.

3.

A.

Practice:

Codes and practices currently in effect governing the handling and use
of laboratory animals.

Research needs:
Estimates on numbers, types of animals, sources.
Legislation:

State and local legislation, effective or pending, involving treatment
of animals or their procurement.

“Techniques:

Investigation into methods whereby animal suffering may be minimized and
numerical requirements reduced. ‘

The Institute will seek to function with a solid background of fact as
assiclearing house of information on animal welfare, especially on the

use of laboratory animals.

Results of the Institute's research surveys will be made available to
the public through bulletins, factual releases and other media.

 




In its Operation, the Institute will support the good work done by other
organizations and enlist their aid in its own endeavors. Such organizations would

include:
a)
b)

c)
d)

e)
1‘)

Departments of the Federal and State governments.
Humane Societies.

Scientific and technical associations.
Conservation groups.

Livestock protection groups.

All other bodies interested in animal welfare.

Throughout the Institute will strive for professional and public acceptance of
the best in animal welfare, by providing a forum and clearing house forgthe legitimate
claims of scientists and humanitarians alike.

The Institute believes that only by thus taking account of all available related
facts can valid and equitable solutions to complex problems be attained.

 




A PROSPECTUS

 

ANIMAL WELFARE. INSTITUTE

 

 

 

CHRISTINE STEVENS
730 FIFTH AVENUE
NEw YORK 19, N. Y.

 




THE ANDMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE:

An organization founded by a group of persons interested in the promotion of
humane treatment of animals.

The Institute will be incorporated as a non-profit organization under the laws
of Delaware.

Its interests and membership will be nationwide.

Headquarters will be at 730 Fifth Avenue, New York 19, N. Y.
PURPOSE AND SCOPE:

The aim.of the Institute will be:

To promote the welfare of all animals.
To reduce the total of pain and fear inflicted on animals by man.

While the Institute is interested in every phase of animal welfare, it will,
at present, concern itself particularly with humans safeguards in the use of animals
for research and medicine.

This is one aspect of humane work that has received very little practical
attention in the 0.5. As a result, standards for the use of laboratory animals vary

from individual to individual, from institution to institution.

At present, animal experimentation is a subject on which opinion differs
importantly:

I. Antivivisectionists demand the abolition of animal experimentation.

2.. Some experimental biologists, deeming themselves hampered by unsatis-
factory supplies of animals needed for research and by antivivisectionist
activity, counter by demanding the forced surrender of unlimited numbers
of animals from public and semi-public sources.

3. Sincere humanitarians who have not opposed animal experimentation are
having their constructive work made difficult, and in some instances
impossible, by those scientists who react to antivivisectionist extremes
by themselves going to opposite lengths.

On the urgent problem of laboratory animals, therefore, the Institute will have
the following immediate aims:

I. Care: The establishment_of a code for the handling and use of laboratory
animals which would serve to implement existing legislation.

The Institute will interest itself in all species of experimental.animals.

Research: The snoouragement of medical research of the highest possible
quality as opposed to mere quantity.

The development of techniques that will reduce to a minimum.both the pain
suffered by animals and the number of animals required.

 




2.

3. Procurement Program.: The survey of existing and proposed programs for
the procurement of laboratory animals in an effort to discover the best
method of satisfying the needs of humanity in the advancement of medicine,
public health, agriculture, etc., without jeopardizing practical animal
welfare work or the general advancement of humanity through increasing
consideration for all living creatures.

SOME BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR THE INSTITUTE:

In its efforts to promote animal welfare, the Institute will be guided by
certain basic considerations:

1. Animals feel pain (distresslganxietyt discomfort).
There is every scientific reason for concluding that vertebrates are
capable of suffering. With the lower animals, the evidence may be less
direct, nevertheless observation even of the invertebrates strongly

suggests their sensitivity to pain and discemfort hence they cannot be
safely overlooked. ,

Criteria for pain—infliction in scientific experimentation and standards
for its justification must be established as clearly as possible.

No units exist for the measurement of pain. Nevertheless, criteria for
judging pain-infliction quantitatively should be defined. These would
include such factors as:

a) Intensity of suffering.

b) Duration of suffering.

c) The number of animals affected.

Justification for pain infliction in every instance should take into
account the above factors as they relate to:

a) The ultimate value of the experiment.

b) The feasibility of using other less painful methods.

c) The extent and degree of mental suffering (fear, anxiety,
worry, loneliness, etc.) involved in the procedures.

Study of all these factors should provide a means for deciding upon the
proper limitation of pain infliction. These means should be based on
the proposition that the and justified the means only if these mean§_§all
within reasonable limits.

 

A broader ethics is imperative:

The ethical principles that will guide the work of the Institute have
been well expressed by Dr. Albert Schweitzer, world renowned physician,
clergyman and philosopher:

"Ethics in our western world has hitherto been largely limited to the
relation of man to man. But that is a limited ethics. ‘we need a boundless
ethics which will include the animals also."

 




3.

And again: "What does reverence for life say about the relations between
men and the animal world? Whenever I injure any kind of life I must be
quite certain that it is necessary. I must never go beyond the unavoid-
able......."

"Those who experiment upon animals by surgery and drugs, or inoculate
them with diseases in order to be able to help mankind by the results
obtained, should never quiet their consciences with the conviction that
their cruel action may in general have a worthy purpose. In every single
instance they must consider whether it is really necessary to demand of
an animal this sacrifice for man, and they must take anxious care that
the pain be mitigated as far as possible.......

"By the very fact that animals through these painful experiences have
contributed so much of value to suffering mankind, a new and special bond
of solidarity has been established between them and us. From this arises
the obligation for each of us to do every possible good to all animals

everywhere."

New developments may mitigate animal suffering.

The Institute's emphasis throughout will be on the needs of animals gag
human beings.

While recognizing the importance of animal experimentation in medical
and other scientific research, the Institute will investigate and seek
to foster developments in expermmentation whereby animal suffering may
be minimized.

Fields of investigation.might include:

a) Practical replacement of the higher mammals by much lower
forms of lifer or life in lower stages off embryonic development
(such as chick embryos) with a view to reducing the suffering
undergone by animals with highly developed nervous systems.

Practical replacement of chronic experiments involving pro-
tracted_pnysical or mental suffering by properly conducted
sacrifice experiments with a view to reducing the number of
painful experiments.

The efficient statistical design of experiments so as to effect
a systematic economy in sampling. For example, methods whereby
limitation of the number of variables introduced in an experiment
makes possible the reduction of the number of animals necessary.

The substitution of chemical and physical methods, whenever
possible, for biological methods in experiments or tests.

e) The means of avoiding unnecessary repetition of experiments.

5. The middle course must prevail.

The Institute believes that hwmanitarianimm and science, far from.being
antagonistic, should complement each other if civilization is to progress.

 




   
      
        
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
   

OPERATION:

l.

3.

A.

h.

It opposes, at one extreme, the fraction of opinion which would abolish
all animal experimentation. It also Opposes at the other extreme, that
fraction of opinion which dismisses the problem raised by animal suffer-
ing as trivial and which is willing to accept, as an unqualified justifi~
cation for this suffering, the general aim of increased human comfort

and knowledge.

The Institute will proceed on the assumption that all human beings,
whatever their specific beliefs or training, have a common goal of humanity.

It believes that by informing the public and arbitrating between extremes,
the Institute can foster a climate favorable to scientific pragress and
animal‘welfare.

As Dr. E. C. Stakman stated last year in an address as retiring president
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science:

"There is a need for more understanding and tolerance between scientists
and humanists: properly motivated, all are humanists, and their joint
contribution can accelerate man's evolution toward intellectual enlighten-
ment and spiritual refinement."

To achieve the purpose and spread the vieWpoint outlined above, even beyond
the narrower scope of its direct operation, the Institute will make surveys and studies

of such matters as these:

Practice:

Codes and practices currently in effect governing the handling and use
of laboratory animals.

Research needs:

Estimates on numbers, types of animals, sources.

Legislation:

State and local legislation, effective or pending, involving treatment
of animals or their procurement.

Techniques:

Investigation into methods whereby animal suffering may be minimized and
numerical requirements reduced.

The Institute will seek to function with a solid background of fact as
aseiclearing house of information on animal welfare, especially on the
use of laboratory animals.

Results of the Institute's research surveys will be made available to
the public through bulletins, factual releases and other media.




In its Operation, the Institute will support the good work done by other
organizations and enlist their aid in its own endeavors. Such organizations would

include:
a)
b)
C)
d)

e)
f)

Departments of the Federal and State governments.
Humane Societies.

Scientific and technical associations.
Conservation groups.

Livestock protection groups.

All other bodies interested in animal welfare.

Throughout the Institute will strive for professional and public acceptance of
the best in animal welfare, by_providing a forum.and clearing house for the legitimate
claims of scientists and humanitarians alige.

The Institute believes that only by thus taking account of all available related
facts can valid and equitable solutions to camplex problems be attained.

 




THE STORY OF TEE ANIMﬁL WELFARE INSTITUTE

The bitter controversy between entinvivisectionists and
research scientists, and the urgent need for greater protection
of laboratory animals, eere shiefly responsible for the recent
establishment of the Animal'ﬁelfere Institute, a nation-wide
organisation with headquarters at 730 Fifth Avenue, New Yorkﬁi

Recognizing the need for brii”ing the wide gap now exist-

ing between the two groups, with regard to the use of aé?“

for experimentation, Christine Stevens of Ann Arbor, Michigan

made a comorehensive study of the subject, and soon realized
that some middle ground.must be established on which sincere.
humeniteriens might meet and work for the welfare of both_men
and animals. Being the daughter of a physiologist who uses
leborstory enimels snégzeing a humane society worker, Mrs.
Stevens was convinced this middle ground was possible, and that
there need be no actual conflict between humeniterienism and
science.

Mrs. Stevens is the wife of Roger L. Stevens, who is well
known in both real estate and theatrical fields (he heads the
syndicate that recently purchased.the Empire State Building
and is e member of the Playwrights Company). Mrs. Stevens first
became interested in organized humane work during World War II
when her husband was in the Navy and they were living in Miami.
Becoming outraged when their landlady dumped unwanted kittens

along a roadside to starve, Mrs. Stevens communicated with

 




Officials of the Miami humane organization and began working
with them during her stay in Florida. Upon.har return to Ann
Arbor, she took an active part in the local Humane Society of
Washtensw County, and was appointed to fill a vacancy on its
board.

A model shelter for the Society was built last April by the
Matthaei Foundation whose gift is estimated at $100,000. Mrs.
Stevens was active in the designing-of the shxlter and the
raising of funds for its equipment. This shelter serves the
Washtenaw County communities of Ann arbor,'Ypsilanti and'Willos
Run. The result of a year and a half of research in shelter
design efficiency, it has radiant heated floors, germicidal
lamps. A special plumbing system keeps fresh, cool water
running to the drinking fountain in each.kennel, and plexiglass
swinging doors allow each animal to see for himself if conditions
are favorable for a romp in his own individual outside run.

Toward the end of 1950 hrs. Stevens came to realize that
humans societies were fighting for their very existence because
of increasing demands made upon them by organized medical re-
search fer animals for esperimentsl use. It is contrary to the
ethical principles and the purposes for which humane societies
were founded to release animals for painful experimentation.

Humane societies have oversted as a public,trust, financed

" {Z
largely by charitable contributions, sinceACivil'War era. In the

few states and cities where forced surrender legislation has
been passed, some humane work had come to a standstill, and some

tOp officials had resigned their posts in protest. The burden

 




-3-

to taxpayers for maintenance of animal shelters under civil
operation.has increased as much as 70% over its former cost.

The whole subject of animal experimentation -- methods
of procurement, regulation of practices, etc. -- therefbre
became of hmmediate concern to Mrs. Stevens. Her research
indicated that Great Britfje was the leader in legislation
for the protection of animals. The British law of 1876

called ”The Cruelty to Animals Lee” was sponsored by the lead-

ingscientists of the day -- Darwin,Huxley and Jenner. Its

main provisions were 1} the limiting of experimentation on
living animals to bona fide scientific purposes; 2) the
licensing of research workers and the places Where they work;
3) the inspection by Home Office inspectors; A) the laying
down of the ”pain condition.”'

Before it was passed it was amended after considerable
discussion to take full account of research methods. In 1912
a Royal Commission was appointed to examine the results of the
law. It sat fer six years, and recommended that the number of
inspectors should be increased; that research should be centre—
liaed as far as possible; that curare (a panelysant) should
not be used at all unless an inspector is present; etc. But
its most radical recommendation related to the pain condition
‘ attached to licenses. It stated that inspectors should be
empowered to order the killing of an animal, and that the Home
Secretary should require "that in all cases in Which in the
opinion of the experimenter, the animal is suffering severe

pain which is likely to endure, it shall be his duty to cause

 




-4...

its painless death, even though the object of the experiment
has not been obtained.”

The laboratory animal in Greet Britain also has behind
him a remarkable organization calhad the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare. Founded in 1926 by Major Charles W. Bums
as the "University of London Animal Welfare Society," it began
with a membership of two. By 1938 it had branches in ten
colleges of the University of London and in that year also
membership was extended to other universities and its name was
changed to the present one. Its activities are guided, in
assessing the relative importance of cruel practice, by l) the
intensity of the suffering involved; 2) its usual duration;

3) the nonbcr of animals affected; and h) the feasibility of
practical reform. Its constructive policies with regard to
relations between animal protectionists and research workers

was confirmed in 19h? with the publication of the U.F.A;W.

gendbook on the Care and Management of Laboratorzwnnimels.

Although the use of eXperimental animals is worldwide,
effective legal control exists in only a few countries. The
British Act of 1876 still applies in Ireland ~- Switzerland,
Denmark and Sweden have some regulation, and several countries
have laws but little or no machinery for enforcing them.

By summer of 1951 ﬁre. Stevens had a clear picture of
what the organization should accomplish. She named it the
Animal Welfare Institute and it was incorporated as a non-
profit orgsnizstion on Joly 11, 1951. To be doubly certain

that there was a place in our society for an Animal golfers

 




,5-

lnetitute, e trial meiling went out to e eigectea list of 74

prominent leaders in the fielde of eoientifio research and
animal protection. It stated clearly the Institute's aims,
.purpoeee, and objectives. The replies ehe received removed
any deubt of its need. Following are two typical oommente:

Dr. Dwight J. Ingle, of the Upjohn Company in Kalamazoo,
Michigan: ‘

“I am in sympathy with any organization which
seeks to promote the humane treatment of animals
while at the some time recognizing the essentials
of animal eXperimentation in biology and medicine.

" I believe that laboratories engaged in animal ex-
perimentation should be required by law to meet
intelligent requirements as to housing the animals
and as to humane care. I believe that all indivi-
duals Who are trained to do animal experimentation
should be taught to give the animals the best
possible care and to avoid pain where possible.”

From Carlton E. Buttriok, President of The Animal Rescue
League of Boston:

”It seems to me very well organized.end certainly
contains the basis for the Animal Welfare Institute
to begin sound operation. Its purpose and scope
should be of extreme interest to everyone in the
humane field as well as those using animals for
exPerimentetion. The whole field of animal ex~
perimentetion and control —- including the source
of eupgly -- needs a study that will be based on
facts or

Others in the same vein came from educators, editors,
veterinarians and government official§:§re new on file at
Animal delfare Institute headquarters.

.An Advisory Committee was subsequently formed, and it
consists of these outstanding scientists and professional

humanitariene.

 




Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director Institute of Human
Biology, University o?gﬁichigan;

Dr. Robert Geeell, ?rofeeeor of Physiology,
University of Michigan;

Dr. Eric H. Hansen, President, Massachusetts .
Society for the Preventionof Cruelty to Animale;

 

 

Dr. Peter 0kkelberg, m~eritue Profeeeor of Zoolo .
and Emeritus Associate Dean of the Graduate ﬁchoo ,
Univereity o?LMiehigen; ' -

David Ricardo, Secrdegg, Britiah Columbia Sociegz
for the Prevent on o ruelty to Animals.

The Prospectus of the Institute outlines the proposed

Operations of the Animal Welfare Institute, which includes
surveys and studies of such matters as:

l) The codes and practices currently in effect governing
the use and handling of laboratory animals.

2) Estimates on numbensnieourcoa)and types of animals
needed.

3) State and local legislation, effective or pending,
involving treatment of’animale or their procurement.

h) And meet importéjnt, it will function ~- with a solid
background of fact -- as a clearing house of information and
ideas on animal welfare, especially on the nae of laboratory
animals. Results of the Inetitute'e research surveys will be
made public through bulletine, news releases, and such other
media as befits the information to be projected.

”The Institute," its prospectus goes on to say, ”will
support the good work done by other organizations, and enlist
their aid in its oen.endeavore. It will recognize the legitimate

‘féiﬂﬁﬁf For scientists and humenitariana alike.“

 




The Animal Welfare Inetitute offers tee active memberehip
cleeeificetiene: The associate ﬁemberehip, open (fer*ten dollars)
to orgemieetiene er individuele; and the Contributing ﬂemberehip,
open (fer two dellere) to individuele enly.

The ethical yrinciplee which will guide the week of the
Inetitute have been well expreeeed by Dr. ﬁlbert Schweitzerg
ﬁckle—renewned physician, end are quated in the preeyectue ee
fellewe:

”Ethics in our western world bee hitherte been
largely limited to the relation of‘men te man.
But that is e limitee ethics. We need e beame-
leee ethics which will include the animals also.

“ What does reverence fer life say about the re-
latiens between men and the animal eerie? When-
ever I injure any kind of life I must be quite
certain that it is neceeeery. I muet never go
beyond the unavoidable.....

"These «he experiment upon animals by surgery and
drugs, or ineculete them with dieeaxes in order

to be able to help mankind by the results obtained,
eheuld never quiet their caneciencee with the cone
viction that their cruel action may in general have
a worthy purpose. In every single inetence they
:mnst ceneider whether it is really necessary to
demand of an animal thie eacrifice for men, and
they must take anxious care that the pain be
mitigated ee fer as possible....

“ By the very fact that animals through theee
painIUl experiences have contributed so much of
value to suffering mankind, a new and special
bond of solidarity has been eetabliehed.between
them enﬁ us. From.this arises the obligation
ﬂor eeeh of us to do every possible good to
all animals everywhere.”

For further information: thn Scot? Panes
Gremerey ﬁeee eesociatee
2h? Park Ave. NYC P1 5-2200

Ewtella Draper at Ju 6—3180v

 

 




Vol. 33

EDITORIAL AND OTHER MATTER

Of Accomplishmenf and Obligafion (834) -—
Promofing Pracfice (836) — Animal Welfare
Insfi’rufe (836) — Encephali’ris (838) — Veferi-
narians Seek Funds for Research (840) -— To
S’rockholm Nexf Augusf (840).

REFLECTIONS (842)
GENERAL

Five Previously Unrepor’red Parasifes in fhe
Hawaiian Islands — CrossI WiIIers. Gooch
and Bonnef (849) — Erysipelofhrix Rhusio-
pa’rhiae Infecfion in Fowl (850) — Cyanide
May Be Key fo Mul’riple Sclerosis (850) —
Ufah Radia’rion Sfudies (850) — Rabies in
Wild Animals (85I) — BAI—A Grea’r Hu-
mane Sociefy (85 I ) — Trea’ring Influenza (85I).

CURRENT DIGEST

Ovine Enferofoxemia — Bourne (852) —
"Scrapie" Appears in California (855) —
Vesicular Exan’rhema Quaranfines Modified

(855).

BOVINE PRACTICE

Shipping Fever — KIussend‘orf (856) — Low-

Pressure Rofenone Sprays Confrol Caffle

Grub (857) — Bovine Lipomafosis (857 —

Some Diseases of Beef Caffle — Chambers
I (858) — The Price of Milk (860).

I

DECEMBER. 1952

No. 12

MODERN SURGERY

Diagnosfic~ Refroperifoneal Emphysema (86I)
— Pneumoperi’roneum (86I) — Cafalysfs and
Enzymes in Wound Trea’rmenf (86I).

COMPARATIVE PATHOLOGY
Canine Hys’reria‘ — Innes (862).

SMALL-ANIMAL (PRACTICE

Jaundice, Ifs Clinical Manifesfa’rions and
Managemenf (864) — Clinical Hema’rology
— BiId (866) — Double Aorfic Arch in a
Dog — Klo’rz and Brewer (867) — Observa-
fion on Hard Pad Disease — McQuisfion
(869) — An Au’romafic Means of Confrolled
Respirafion for Open Thoracic Surgery —
Willis and Weckerly (870) — Chronic Splen-
ifis — Baronfi (872).

QUESTIONS AND REPLIES (873)

MISCELLANEOUS

Tuberculosis (876) — Meefings (876) —
Gochenour Now Vice-Presidenf (882) —- Ray
Heads Affiliafed Labora’rories Corpora’rion
(882) ‘— Birfhs (884) — Book and Publicafion
Nofices (884) — For’ry Years Ago (888) —
Coming Meefings (890) — Personals (892)
— Hospi’rals (894) — Obifuaries (896) —
Oppor’runifies (898) — AdVerfisers' Index
(900).

VOLUME INDEX (i-xii)

 




for proven safety

for proven efﬁcacy

for durable immunity

TRADE MARK

 

PORCINE ORIGIN

 

 

 

M-L-V now packaged in three sizes: 5 dose — 10 dose — 50 dose.
Produced exclusively by Fort Dodge Laboratories, Inc.,
Fort Dodge, Iowa. U S. Patent No. 2,594,180.

 




' I 0 Ideal t‘herapeusis is now
, obtained with 01VE VIAL.
V o Atnple dosage for any
I ,. prophylactic injection with
A 0IVE VII‘L.
’ Heretofore in 25 mg. vials — now in
75 mg. Vials AT THE SAME PRICE A VlAl!
Thus, FROMM has reduced the cost
‘. ‘ for DlSTEMPEROID VIRUS "Viablized"*
‘ by new laboratory technics that permit
g. V‘Alg much greater production.

Only occasionally will a second vial be
needed for prophylactic inoculation — only

W/m D/LVE/vr for unusually large dogs will a second

vial be needed for therapeutic inoculation.

Distemperoid Virus FROMM is your

dependable protection against canine distemper
when used either prophylactically or
therapeutically. NOW in vials that offer

MORE ECONOMY -— it is even more your ideal
vaccine against distemper.

*Patented’ process of sealing after drying.

0 Sold only to Qualified Graduate
Veterinarians.

0 Available in one dose and I0 dose
packages.

FROMM lABORATORlES, INC.

GRAFTON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
Telephone Cedarburg 8H

. CONTACT YOUR TOOAL INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTOR OR THE LABORATORIES OIREOT

December, T952

 




THE Nﬂlt’l‘ll AMERICAN VETERINARIAN

 

 

 

ESTABLI

 

SHED

 

 

920

 

COMBINING VETERINARY PRACTICE

Published Monthly by American Veterinary Publications, Inc.
Box 872, Evanston, Illinois

Editors

J. V. LACROIX. D.V.S.

H. PRESTON HOSKINS. V.M.D.

W. W. ARMISTEAD, D.V.M.. M.Sc.
R. G. BEHRENS, Special Representative

 

Volume 33

December, 1952

No. 12

 

Copyright. 1952. American Veterinary Publications. Inc.
$6.00. Single copy 50 cents. Pay no money to agent unless he presents a letter showing

Canada. $5.50. Foreign.
authority to make collections.

Subscription rates: Domestic. $5.00 per annum.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Ofﬁce at Evanston. Illinois. under the Act of March 3. 1879.

 

Of Accomplishment and Obligation

The magnitude of the debt we owe our
progenitors is difﬁcult to comprehend un-
less we consider the chaos that would exist
if each new baby entered alone into a
stone-age world, and every old man took
with him all the contributions, both ma—
terial and spiritual, he had been able to
make during his lifetime. Our obligations
to our contemporaries, too, are often difﬁ-
cult to assess. Events of the crowded year
just past are certain to have made lasting
impressions on many of our readers. To
those whom world tragedy has touched
with personal bereavement, we extend sin-
cere sympathy and a hope that for them
tomorrow will in some measure justify yes-
terday’s loss. Such sacriﬁces outline with
stark clarity the fact, often taken for
granted, that most of what we are and have
can be credited to the efforts of others ——
parents, soldiers, teachers, scholars, scien-
tists, statesmen, and laborers. America is
great largely because the importance of
each man to the advancement of the whole
is recognized, digniﬁed, and encouraged by
a system of equal vocational opportunity
and unlimited personal freedom.

834

As the year draws to a close, THE, NORTH
AMERICAN VETERINARIAN would like to ex-
press appreciation for the encouragement
and support of readers. To those who have
been subscribers for the past three decades
or more, we Wish to express our gratitude
for this evidence of their continued inter-
est in and support of our profession. To
those in their ﬁrst decade of practice we
extend an invitation to join us in acknowl-
edging the debt we owe to the pioneers in
veterinary medicine. To all our subscrib-
ers may we suggest that it is appropriate
at this time of year to meditate on the
wonderful heritage which has made possi—
ble the phenomenal growth of veterinary
medicine in America. It is an object of
world-wide envy and should not be held
lightly at home.

The editors and staff Wish again to
solicit your suggestions and to pledge con-
tinued efforts to merit your approval. In
the future, as in the past, nothing will so
effectively determine our course as the
wishes and needs of readers. Please accept
our thanks and our heartiest Season’s
Greetings i—W. W. A.

The North American Veterinarian

 




Combined Sulfa Medication

TRl-SULFA SOLUTION assures
prompt synergistic action of
three highly potent sulfas

For intravenous or intraperitoneal injection . . . Tri-Sulfa Solution is a
combination of 4% each of the sodium salts of Sulfamerazine,
Sulfathiazole, and Sulfadiazine. It has a wide scope of usefulness in
large and small animal medication.

Supplied in: Ctn. 6-250 cc. puncture-sealed bottles.

SUGGESTED DOSE: Horses or Cattle 20-30 cc. per cwt.;
Swine or Dogs 4 cc. per 10 lb. body-weight.

OTHER COMBINED SULFA MEDICATION

To maintain effective blood concentration following initial injection of
Tri-Sulfa Solution administer Sulfa Combined Taboles (240 gr. ),

Sulfa Combined tablets (60 gr. ), Sulfa Combined Hextabs (7.5 gr.)
or Sulfa Combined Toytabs (2 gr. ); each contains equal amounts of
Sulfamerazine, Sulfathiazole and Sulfadiazine.

C oast-to-C oast Service

HAVER-GLoVEB
LABOBATOBIES

Kansas City, Mo.

December. I952

 




PROMOTING PRACTICE

The Associated Serum Producers, spon-
soring the American Foundation for Ani-
mal Health, has voted one of its largest
budgets for continuing its nation-wide
public relations campaign on behalf of the
veterinary profession for 1953.

Two releases each month will be supplied
to 3,500 newspapers from coast to coast,
plus a series of question and answer col-
umns for 1,800 weekly papers, twice
monthly and blanketing the country.

Farm magazines will continue to reach
their readers with informative advertise-
ments regarding disease hazards and the
value of veterinary service. In addition,
regular news releases will be sent twice
monthly to a large group of farm maga-
zines.

More than 400 radio stations will be
served continuously through the year with
timely bulletins and news items on animal
disease problems, stressing the value of
veterinary service. In addition, a special
campaign will be launched in the spring to
urge farmers to have their swine vacci-
nated against hog cholera. The ﬁlm, “Val-
iant Years,” portraying the work of a
typical veterinarian in his community, will
be shown to nearly 3,000 audiences
throughout the nation during 1953. This
ﬁlm has already been viewed by more than
one million persons.

This is the sixteenth year in which Asso-
ciated Serum Producers has sponsored its
public relations campaign in behalf of the
veterinary profession. The basic objectives
of the campaign are: (1) to make animal-
owners more alert to disease hazards; (2)
to educate owners to the value of modern
veterinary service in preventing animal
disease losses; (3) to familiarize the pub-
lic with the contribution the profession
makes to general health and the nation’s
welfare and economy, and (4) to offset the
efforts of other interests which seek to lead
animal-owners into channels of lay medi-
cation.

Member companies of ASP who have
pledged to underwrite the costs of the 1953
campaign are: Allied Laboratories, Inc.;
Blue Cross Serum Co.; Corn Belt Labora—
tories, Inc.; Fort Dodge Laboratories, Inc.;
Grain Belt Supply Co.; Jansen-Salsbery

836

Laboratories, Inc.; Liberty Laboratories;
Missouri Valley Serum Co.; Norden Labo-
ratories; Pitman-Moore Co.; Sioux City
Serum Co.; Sioux Falls Serum Co.; The
Columbus Serum Co.; The Corn States
Serum Co.; The Gregory Laboratory, Inc.;
The National Laboratories Corp.; The
Royal Serum Co.; The Southwestern Serum
Co., and The United Serum Co. '

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Incorporated as a non—proﬁt organiza—
tion, The Animal Welfare Institute has
ofﬁces at 730 Fifth Avenue, New York 19,
N. Y., and has issued its ﬁrst annual re-
port. When its program was announced,
three objectives were cited: (1) the estab-
lishment of a code for the handling and
use of laboratory animals; (2) the encour-
agement of medical research of the highest
possible quality as opposed to mere quan-
tity (including the development of technics
to reduce to a minimum both the pain
suffered by animals and the number of
subjects required), and (3) the survey of
existing and proposed programs for the
procurement of laboratory animals in an
effort to discover the best method of sat-
isfying the needs of humanity in the ad-
vancement of medicine, public health, agri-
culture, etc., without jeopardizing practical
animal welfare work or the general ad-
vancement of humanity through increasing
consideration for all living creatures.

A major portion of the work of the In-
stitute during its ﬁrst year has been the
collection of reference material relating to
these and other animal welfare problems.
A body of information of this kind has
never before been gathered in the United
States; the task, therefore, is a large one
necessitating the correlation of facts in a
wide variety of ﬁelds.

Through consultation and correspond-
ence with a large number of biologists and
the collection of published material, the
Institute has obtained a fund of informa-
tion, including both fact and opinion, which
is essential for the evaluation of potential
cooperation between the biological sciences
and the humanities in the ﬁeld of animal
welfare.

(Concluded on page 838)

The North American Ve+erinarian

 




ANIMAL WELFARE (Concluded)

In addition to these basic studies, eco—
nomics and the dissemination of propa-
ganda, as they currently relate to animal
welfare, are being examined by the Insti-
tute. These, together with legislation, are
areas in which sharp controversy exists
and in which the, Institute has made great
efforts to distinguish accurately between
fact and ﬁction. A listing of some of the
speciﬁc categories in which information is
being collected follows:

Care and housing of laboratory animals;
methods in research, teaching, testing and
production of products which involve the
use of animals; funds for animal experi-
mentation; procurement of different spe—
cies of laboratory animals; legislation and
codes; humane societies, and man’s rela-
tionship to other forms of life.

Representatives of the Institute have
made inspection visits to the laboratories
of hospitals, universities and pharmaceuti-
cal houses in six states. One representative
also spent one month in England where
laboratories were observed and discussions
held with scientists, educators and animal
welfare workers.

Detailed reports have been made on all
of the laboratories Visited, describing ac-
commodations and care for the animals,

personnel, equipment and methods. These
reports have not been made public but are
in the Institute’s ﬁles. They include ex-
amples of ﬁrst-rate consideration and care
for laboratory animals and examples of
ignorance, callousness and ﬁlth, as well as
numerous degrees of intermediate condi-
t‘ions.

A recent report of the Animal Welfare
Institute contains a recommendation made
by the Committee on Legislation of the
Queens County (New York) Medical So-
ciety, following the passage of the Hatch—
Metcalf Act. (The procurement provisions
of the Act are considered unfair and im-
proper by the Institute.) Here is the
recommendation:

May we of the reference committee
further suggest that it is the duty of the
profession as a whole to assure proper
enforcement of safeguards against abuse
of animals obtained through this law.
This includes careful supervision of ex-

838

periments to see that they are conducted
in a humane manner, the setting up of
regulations for the provision of proper
animal cages and care, and the elimina-
tion of wasteful, purposeless, and ob-
viously fruitless experiments to which a
larger supply of animals may give rise.

The Animal Welfare Institute has in-
augurated an ambitious program involving
ethical problems. All who read the ﬁrst
annual report of the Institute must con-
clude that good motives seem to actuate
this undertaking. It seems unlikely that
sentiment and bias will alter the course of
the program if the basic objectives con-
tinue to be followed.

 

ENCEPHALITIS

Not one but a number of viruses are
responsible for encephalitis, according to
a release1 announcing the transfer of PHS
to Greeley, Colorado. Horses and human
beings have been victims of these virus
diseases over much of this country in re
cent years. The Virus “has been recovered
14 times from six species of birds at times
when evidence of infections in other ani-
mals was at a minimum, and no human
or horse cases could be found. The birds
shown so far to be infected were pigeons,
sparrows, magpies, cliff swallows, redwing
blackbirds and crows.” We suggest an-
other —— pheasants.

Encephalitis is world-wide in occurrence
and when horses were more important in
our economy than at present, in 1938, 184,-
000 cases occurred. Three different types
of virus have been recognized in this coun-
try: eastern, western and St. Louis. Other
types occur elsewhere, as for example the
Venezuela type in South America. In a
report by Chief Simms of the U. S. B.A.I.,
dated May 27, 1947,? it was stated: “The
Bureau examined 23 specimens from cases
of suspected equine encephalomyelitis dur—
ing 1946, and 13 of these proved to be
positive. Eleven strains of virus of the
eastern type were isolated from the posi-

(Concluded on. page 840)

1. Public Health Service, Communicable Disease
Center, Greeley, Colorado. ‘

2. Infectious equine
United States in 1946.

encephalomyelitis in the
No. Am. Vet. 28 (1947) 430.

The' North American Veterinarian

 




SHIPPING FEVER IN CATTLE

As winter progresses, a Connecticut veterinarian has found that cattle with ship-e
ping fever pneumonia reSpond less and less readily to sulfonamides, probably, he
feels, because of treatment at the point of origin which result“ ’ ‘he “‘1‘"
quent building up of sulfonamidea-r-ef“«tent organisms. R’W'v

to with excellent results; "‘

and 1 Gm. on each of the t

”uneventful" recovery”

 

' CHEMICAL smucwp

0f THYWV‘

Did you get it ? ?

ANTIBIOTICS NEWS AND NOTES is Pﬁzer’s

most recent service to the veterinary profession.

Mailed monthly to all veterinarians in the U. 5.,
it is an interesting and informative compilation
of items from the modern literature on
antibiotic therapy.

Ifyou are not: I‘GCOi‘UlIlg this new publication
each month, please semi your name to:
Veterinary Department. Chas. IT/izer (8’5 Co.,
Inc, 630 I'ﬁlusltintt.r Avenue. Brooklyn 6, N. Y.
W e will make sure that your name is on

our mailing list. I

Chas. Pﬁzer & CO.,Inc. is the world‘s largest producer
of antibiotics. A large variety of veterinary dosage
forms of Pfizer Terramycin. Penicillin. Streptomycin,
Dihydrostreptomycin and Combiotic" are available
from ethical veterinary distributors.

"TRADEMARK. CHAS. PFIZER 8c CO.. INC.

VETERINARY DEPARTMENT. ANTIBIOTIC DIVISION

CHAS. PFIZER 8-: CO.. INC.. BROOKLYN 6. N. Y.

December, I952

 




 

 

 

 

 

f DOMESTIC SERVICE " INTERNATIONAL SERVICE
Check the class of service desired; 1206 Check the class of service desired;
othermse thls message “‘1“ be otherwise this message will be

sent as a full rate telegram sent at the full rate ~;

FULL RATE SERIAL FULL ,7 LETTER
TELEGRAM RATE \ TELEGRAM
DAY NIGHT VICTORY SHIP

\LET’TER LETTER . f w P MARSHALL PRESIDENT \LETTER RADIOGRAM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO.WDS.-CL.OFSVC. PD. OR COVLL. CASH NO. CHARGE TO THE ACCOUNT OF TIME FILED

Benj. Sonenberg-Zh? Park Ave.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Send the following message, subject to the terms on back hereof, which are hereby agreed to

Sept 0 26, 1951

Dr. Carl F. Schlotthauer
Mayo 9 men etion

University of Mizznesota Graduate School
pocheeter, hiene ote

h.
1

Would you object to our Quoting only the following sentence from
your letter to Mrs. Stevens in our brochure -Stop- ﬁfe and I think
all other medical research laboratories that use animals for

research purposes are in sympathy with the humane purpose and aims

of the proposed Animal Welfare Institute ~~st0p — Please wire

answer collect at your convenience.

Estella Draper

Animal W elfere Institute
730 Fifth Avenue

New York, N.Y.

 




ﬂvw—A v—w

 

 

 

 

DOMESTIC SERVICE \ ' " '1
Check the class of service desired; V ’
otherwise this message will be , _ d J

sent as a. full rate telegram

 

 

 

INTERNATIONAL SERVICE
1206 Check the class of seririce desired;
otherwise this message will be -

sent at the full rate

 

F‘ULL RATE

 

 

FULL ' LETTER
TELEGRAM SERIAL i! I N ll 0 N RATE ‘TELEGRAM
NIGHT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. VICTORY SHIP A
LETTER LETTER r W.- P. MARSHALL. PRESIDENT \LETTER RADIOGR M» r
NO. WDS.-CL. OF SVC. PD. OR COLL. CASH NO. ' CHARGE TO THE ACCOUNT OF TIME FILED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. Bbnagmba:ﬂnnnnﬂmmg;_2h1_3ank AV”. T
Send the following message, subject to the terms on back hereof, which are here agreed to T

 

September 2?, 1951
Ray D. Owen
Kerckhoff Laboratories
CalifOrnia Institute of Technology
Fasadena, Calif.
Time prohibits sending brochure proof with your quotation but

following is portion.we want to use stop In my opinion year

' basic principles for the institute are sauna and theughtful aim

I is net know a scientist whs would take serious exception ts
this statement 0f them step Many thanks for your permis sisn
'Fstella :raper
Animal elfsye Institute

_'I.

   




 
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
     
     

 
  

 

LiKK 0K those att!!ling Press Conference-St.I s - Dec. 13, 19§1

”Fa. George F.1I1iot ) , KKEKIGKK SPCA ~ New Ybrk
“K Kwo KKKKK Kayman ) IKIKIK KKQKICKIKK ~I=WWIKI
'John I. Kpriuger' ' ‘KSSQCIKTKD PRESS

Ralph ijar COKOKET Magazine

KP. Kﬁrguet ) - 1.3. BKILY NEWS
Robert Sullivan )

HKlen Faith Keane DUMGKﬁTV "For YOur Information” program
Kichael a. Clofine HEARST KEKROTOKE KEKS

Harry Killar Editorial Eirector YOUR DOG

Km. Kharpman , IKK‘KAAI uKAL HFKS PHQTQS

Kay Hanfield KIKI uHAL hue-:“L AR” GUILD

I .1?!”
3..) 3'4

' ‘T “3,.“ . .. ~ u I ‘ ."
Joum uPQOkb h

K;

GREEK Kagazine
InnIIKK Graen KKK Service-Inca
K133 KKK Erophy ”KT“VFPR

KextKI I KKIi .K.I. KQST Columnist
KiSK SKKKKK KKIKKKIK DTGKST
Kugena Currivau 5.1. 31K

fﬂiller= }

Edi

In W}:
*ivzaﬁ Kanda ) ' UTfyﬁ” ygﬁgg
ipecial Features Edi tor~K“C”CTA”K KKKss_
aide orla Phatoa

3"}

A.J. Tziakson

       
     
  

    

Kraﬂk Barry

     
 

‘ KKK MQIIEKUKEKS

          
 

Ed Korﬁ EIKE'KOKLD K Aiuhis

      

              
 

Kat nrasent, but reque shad inI“ ormatlon be sent:

   

'1

Margarie Earnsworth JQUEKAL KKEKICAN

  
  
  

Stephan Spencer SATURDAY SKENIKG POST Asa ociate Editor

    

GengK Sokolsky ‘ , Columnist JOURI IE; KKKHICKH

    
 

 

  
  

Agnes Aéama Kurphy : K.Y; POST

       

KKK. Susan Strom KOKKK'S II mIWAL KIWI SKKKICE

     

Ed Bauman Editor - KKKBOPQLIKIK KKKS KKRIICE

   

       

Cora Inthony I KOMAN'S DAY Kaggzine




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

730 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK 19. N.Y.

J UDSON 6-3180

September 20, 1951

Dear Editor:

As you know, there is a wide variance of opinion
on the subject of using animals for scientific experi-
mentation.

An educational organization with a unique approach
to the question has been established. The release will
explain its purpose briefly. You are free to publish it
in its entirety or in part, as space permits.

You will receive, commencing soon, the Institute's

interesting information Bulletins, which are designed to
keep the public informed on this particular question..

Sincerely,

ncy, Jr.
Vice President
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE'

 




FROM: ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
730 FIFTH AVENUE, NYC 19
JUDSON 6-3180

FOR RELEASE: September 2Ath

The Animal Welfare Institute is a new, non-profit, member-
ship organization whose primary function will be factfinding
and information-dispersing regarding the controversial question
of the use of animals for research in laboratories. The Institute
will seek to prevent suffering to animals in the laboratory phase
of medical research, and will endeavor to promote the welfare of
all animals. Its President is Christine Stevens, of Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Mrs. Stevens has been active in humane programs in her home
state, and currently is Chairman of the Shelter Committee of
the Humane Society of Washtenaw County at Ann Arbor, which oper-
ates a new $100,000 Animal Shelter there. According to Mrs.
Stevens, the Animal Welfare Institute will "seek to function
with a solid background of fact as a clearing house for informa-
tion on animal welfare, especially the use of animals in labora-
tories," and that while the Institute is interested in gvgry
phase of animal welfare, it will at present concern itself
primarily with humane safeguards in the use of animals for
reSearch and medicine."

Executive and Information offices of the Institute have been

established at 730 Fifth Avenue, New York 19, N. Y.

 




John Scott Fones

Gramercy News Associates
2A7 Park Ave. NYC
PLaza S~2200

ADDITIONAL_BIQGRAPHY QN_§§RISTINEWSTEVEUS

Christine Gesell was born in St. Louisr Mo. on March 10,
1918. Her father, Robert Gesell, Was a member of the Depart»
ment of Physiology at Washington University there.

At age 5% her family moved to Ann Arbor where her father
joined the Physiology staff of the University of Michigan.
Ann Arbor has been her home ever since. The Gesell family
acquired a 60-acre farm 30 miles away, where they went each
Summer. The farm became home for many different kinds of
animals, among them a terrier mongrel who appeared one day
and was promptly named "Yellow Friend" for obvious reasons.
The farm raised.Belgian horses, and also owned a work.mare
named "Grey Belle" who had a moustache and was neurotic to
the extent of throwing a mild fit when anyone approached her
from the rear, For this reason, Grey Belle got special care
and attention from her owners.

Christine's own dog from the time she was seven was
"Jeannie Joiner," wife of another scotch terrier named
"Johnny Joiner," who was also a member of the Gesell house-
hold,“ Jeannie died a month before Christine Stevens' daughter
was born.

Christine attended public shcools and University High
School in Ann Arbor and went from there to the University of
Michigan. She married ROger L. Stevens, a Detroit business
man, in 1938, and they departed on a wedding trip around the

world.

 




She attended two art schools ~~ Arts & Crafts, and Crane
brook ~~ for two years thereafter, developing a talent she was
later to put to use in behalf of animals. The first actiVe
work for an organized humane group was in Miami when Mrs,
Stevens prepared a series of poeters for the local shelter
which showed different breeds of dogs; Since then she has
authored and illustrated two booklets for the Humane Society
of Washtenaw Gaunty. They are for children, and explain how
their pets should be cared for. One is titled ”You and Your
Dog" and the other is "Kittens & Cats." They have been ex-
tremely popular in the Ann Arbor area.

(Take up from.here from "The Story of the Animal welfare
Institute", attached).

incidental Intelligence_about Christine Stevens:

1. She is the niece of Dr. Arnold Gesell, noted child

psychologist.or'Yale.

2, She has one child, a daughter Christabel, now 13 years old.
3. She owns a white standard poodle named "Joli" who is 12
years old. i

h. Besides being Founder and President of the Animal Welfare
Institute, she is Secretary of the Humane Society of‘Washtenaw
County, one of the newest, most attractive and efficient she1~
tors in the U,S.; she is also a member of the Board of Directors
of the National Dog Welfare Guild, sponsors of National Dog
Week.

5. Her father, Dr. Robert Gesell, Professor of Physiology

at the University of Michigan, uses animals in his work.

 




October 8, 1951

Dear Mr. Eastwood:

Enclosed is a copy of a brodhure prepared by thia
Institute. It was made pos3ib13 beciaae of your
generosity in allowing yourself to be quoted in it.

The Animal Welfare Institute has had wonﬁarful
response from leaders in many fields of scientific
research and animal protectian. Thanks again for your
comments.

Sincerely,

Jahn Scott Panes

The same 1ett er to:

Dr. Ingle
Mr. Richard "E. Eastwood, PP' gwgn
NATURE Hagazina, BP° 2063? H v
1211;, Sixteenth ﬁst” 23.3. M?“ awry -£-é—er:'*lein

‘57ashington 6’1’7 N C. 1:115 J.\/". £8.83?le
Er. 0.3. Meyer

Dr. Lee E. Dice

 




9})?
Animal Welfare

Institute

Kat—y

 




 

Advisory Committee
w

DR. LEE R. DICE, Director, Institute of Human
Biology, University of Michigan

DR. ROBERT GESELL, Professor of Physiology,
University of Michigan

DR. ERIC H. HANSEN, President, Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals

DR. PETER OKKELBERG, Emeritus Professor of
Zoology and Emeritus Associate Dean of the
Graduate School, University of Michigan

DAVID RICARDO, Secretary, British Columbia
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals

 

 

 




The Animal Welfare Institute

AN ORGANIZATION founded by a
group of persons interested in the pro-

motion of humane treatment of animals.

The Institute was incorporated as a
non-proﬁt organization under the laws

of Delaware.

Its interests and membership will be

nationwide.

Headquarters are located at
730 Fifth Avenue, New York 19, N. Y.

 

PURPOSE AND SCOPE
The aim 0 f the Institute will be:
0 To promote the welfare of all animals.

0 To reduce the total of pain and fear

inﬂicted on animals by man.

 




ll

p
\_

5-

9

w L‘, Elf-wry.

awry: 153%

“ s’i-LBME:

53..

{I

I?

 

WHILE THE INSTITUTE is interested in every phase of animal
welfare, it will, at present, concern itself particularly with humane
safeguards in the use of animals for research and medicine.

This is one aspect of humane work that has received very little
practical attention in the United States. As a result, standards for
the use of laboratory animals vary from individual to individual,
from institution to institution.

At present, animal experimentation is a subject on which opin-
ion differs importantly:

1. Anti-vivisectionists demand the abolition of animal ex-

perimentation.

. Some experimental biologists, deeming themselves ham-

pered by unsatisfactory supplies of animals needed for
research and by anti-vivisectionist activity, counter by de—
manding the forced surrender of unlimited numbers of
animals from public and semi-public sources.

. Sincere humanitarians who have not opposed animal ex-

perimentation are having their constructive work made
difﬁcult, and in some instances impossible, by those scien-
tists who react to anti-vivisectionist extremes by them-
selves going to opposite lengths.

Oh the urgent problem of laboratory animals, therefore, the
Institute will have the following immediate aims:

1. Care: The establishment of a code for the handling and

use of laboratory animals.

The Institute will interest itself in all species of experi-
mental animals.

. Research The encouragement of medical research of the

highest possible quality as opposed to mere quantity.

The development of techniques that will reduce to a mini-
mum both the pain suffered by animals and the number of
animals required.

 

 




3. Procurement Programs: The survey of existing and
proposed programs for the procurement of laboratory
animals in an effort to discover the best method of satis-
fying the needs of humanity in the advancement of medi-
cine, public health, agriculture, etc., without jeopardizing
practical animal welfare work or the general advance-
ment of humanity through increasing consideration for
all living creatures.

SOME BASIC PRINCIPLES
FOR THE INSTITUTE

In its efforts to promote animal welfare, the Institute will be
guided by certain basic considerations:

1. Animals feel pain (distress, anxiety, discomfort).

There is every scientiﬁc reason for concluding that verte-
brates are capable of suﬂfering. With the lower animals,
the evidence may be less direct, nevertheless observation
even of the invertebrates strongly suggests their sensi-
tivity to pain and discomfort; hence they cannot be safely
overlooked.

2. Criteria for pain-inﬂiction in scientiﬁc experimenta-
tion and standards for its justiﬁcation must be estab-
lished as clearly as possible.

No units exist for the measurement of pain. Neverthe-
less, criteria for judging pain-inﬂiction quantitatively
should be deﬁned. These would include such factors as:

a) Intensity of suffering.
b) Duration of suffering.

c) The number of animals affected.

 




 

Justiﬁcation for pain-inﬂiction in every instance should
take into account the above factors as they relate to:

a) The ultimate value of the experiment.

b) The feasibility of using other less painful methods.

c) The extent and degree of mental suffering (fear,

anxiety, worry, loneliness, etc.) involved in the
procedures.

Study of all these factors should provide a means for de-
ciding upon the proper limitation of pain-inﬂiction.
These means should be based on the proposition that the
end justiﬁed the means only if these means fall within
reasonable limits.

. A hroader ethics is imperative.

The ethical principles that will guide the work of the
Institute have been well expressed by Dr. Albert Schweit-

zer, world-renowned physician, clergyman and philoso-
pher:

"Ethics in our western world has hitherto heen largely
limited to the relation of man to man. But that is a

limited ethics. We need a houndless ethics which will
include the animals also.”

And again: "What does reverence for life say ahout
the relations hetween men and the animal world?
Whenever I injure any hind of life I must he quite

certain that it is necessary. I must never go heyond the
unavoidable. . .”

”Those who experiment upon animals h y surgery and
drags, or inoculate them with diseases in order to he
ahle to help manhind hy the results ohtained, should
never quiet their consciences with the conviction that
their cruel action may in general have a worthy pur-
pose. In every single instance they must consider

iguana" '




whether it is really necessary to demand of an animal
this sacriﬁce for man, and they mast tahe anxioas care
that the pain he mitigated as far as possihle . . .”

"By the very fact that animals throagh these painfnl
experiences have contrihitted so mach of valve to saf-
fering mankind, a new and special hond of solidarity
has heen estahlished hetween them and as. From this
arises the ohligation for each of its to do every possihle
good to all animals everywhere.”

4. New developments may mitigate animal suﬂerin g.

The Institute’s emphasis throughout will be on the needs
of animals and human beings.

While recognizing the importance of animal experimen—
tation in medical and other scientiﬁc research, the Insti-
tute will investigate and seek to foster developments in
experimentation whereby animal suffering may be mini-
mized.

Fields of investigation might include:

a) Practical replacement of the higher mammals by
much lower forms of life or life in lower stages of
embryonic development (such as chick embryos)
with a view to reducing the suffering undergone by
animals with highly developed nervous systems.

b) Practical replacement of chronic experiments in-
volving protracted physical or mental suffering by
properly conducted sacriﬁce experiments with a
View to reducing the number of painful experi-
ments.

c) The eﬂicient statistical design of experiments so as
to effect a systematic economy in sampling. For ex-
ample, methods whereby limitation of the number
of variables introduced in an experiment makes
possible the reduction of the number of animals
necessary.

.5.

 




d) The substitution of chemical and physical methods,
whenever possible, for biological methods in ex-
periments or tests.

e) The means of avoiding unnecessary repetition of
experiments.

5. The middle course must prevail.

The Institute believes that humanitarianism and science,
far from being antagonistic, should complement each
other if civilization is to progress.

 

It opposes, at one extreme, the fraction of opinion which i
would abolish all animal experimentation. It also op-
poses, at the other extreme, that fraction of opinion which
dismisses the problem raised by animal suffering as trivial
and which is willing to accept, as an unqualiﬁed justiﬁca-
tion for this suffering, the general aim of increased human
comfort and knowledge.

The Institute will proceed on the assumption that all hu-
man beings, whatever their specific beliefs or training,
have a common goal of humanity.

It believes that by informing the public and arbitrating
between extremes, the Institute can foster a climate favor-
able to scientiﬁc progress and animal welfare.

 

As Dr. E. C. Stakman stated last year in an address as

retiring president of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science:

"Tnere is a need for more understanding and tolerance
between scientists and loanianists: properly motivated,
all are lonmanists, and their joint contribation can at-
celerate rnan’s enolntion toward intellectual enlighten—
ment and spiritnal reﬁnement.”

 

 

 

 




OPERATION

To achieve the purpose and spread the viewpoint outlined
above, even beyond the narrower scope of its direct operation, the
Institute will make surveys and studies of such matters as these:

1 . Practice:

Codes and practices currently in effect governing the
handling and use of laboratory animals.

2. Research needs:

Estimates on numbers, types of animals, sources.

3. Legislation:

State and local legislation, effective or pending, involv-
ing treatment of animals or their procurement.

4. Techniques:

Investigation into methods whereby animal suffering may
be minimized and numerical requirements reduced.

The Institute will seek to function with a solid back- 1
ground of fact as a clearing house of information on l
animal welfare, especially on the use of laboratory ani-
mals. '

Results of the Institute’s research surveys will be made
available to the public through bulletins, factual re-
leases and other media.

In its Operation, the Institute will support the good work done
by other organizations and enlist their aid in its own endeavors.
Such organizations would include:

a) Departments of the Federal and State governments.

b) Humane societies.

 




 

c) Scientiﬁc and technical associations.

d) Conservation groups.

e) Livestock protection groups.

f) All other bodies interested in animal welfare.

Throughout the Institute will strive for professional and public
acceptance of the best in animal welfare, by providing a forum

and clearing house for the legitimate claims of scientists and
humanitarians alike.

The Institute believes that only by thus taking account of all
available related facts can. valid and equitable solutions to com-
plex problems be attained. '

rm

«wt—.51 . - ~.—'-.M”"r‘FV

 




The Animal Welfare Institute

Oﬂieen :
President ............ CHRISTINE STEVENS
Vice President ..... ALFRED R. GLANCY, JR.

Secretary. . . .ROBERT A. HENDRICKSON, JR.

T reamrer ............. ROGER L. STEVENS
Au’t. Tt'eamrer ....... HELEN HANZLICK
Executive Secretary ...... ESTELLA DRAPER

Correxpondence would be
addremed to .-

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

THE ANIMAL \‘VELEARE INSTITUTE
730 Fifth Avenue

New York 19, N. Y.

OCTOBER 1, 195 l

 




" $1» a mar'v"~mc
PM“ 5- . t:
3, Udafgﬁf ﬂat-{31“ .
Adar-lb” 3?. glaz’la

,_._,
??r.:
A,“

aw: y 64%;..-ng bf“: ’ I) . " ;:« if; ¢a13=§JQ C

4)
“7“ «M 4..
“77'”; dekasi

ﬁ'v w... ‘1‘ -.
Em}; 7‘ ___,:r~_
141’?" y: u. t IV :~ 1 . ’1 .5 V “‘61:" , .. =5.- ‘_ .3. . 5 V5 . T-jwrs‘ 4;? 5 Wu.

. v. . . ~11-“ vik dz; w. .- , , , .35 M‘ul.‘ ”3,1,,

a.“ 5...... w- . ‘L ’
:3 iiﬁpﬁa bﬁd
f (A ?

5!»;41" u.

a"

3- ,3 my. (‘~ T. . J... 3' " r 3: -. . ., 4...: -555... __ 7 I ... . . -
tilbl 1!“ " C, -. § , ‘ “' Li. RUM” z: ... ' ‘1. ‘0»;1‘J4L‘3: ‘94:} “3 ,f 5; lilLEA-iélni:

6.: 5 .l. ' LAW: “A“; ’6."

lab: Eaaﬁcaaiaﬁg EEG. :Ljf-j,.-g. ~ 3.0m“ Of” 31;“ r Wﬂan—g- .5 ‘ ,1 3'.

o - “ .1? .. . . .4, ‘= . 5
a. brim. mama-“3....- Qf \ 3 a..." 3:me M.

'3 .. “L
’ 3f” (‘5 r "I" 'vu ' ‘ u «; ‘1 'i
g Jail!“ 3;.) k) '«M’ A: A. . g; N” .5" .12} h",—

."‘I ~c
5.3-3; “,*ﬂ{4r

3P5:
g"~’a.2r
.8

:3 u_.’(i.& Wig \‘v’: UM \
-.\ ,
W

 




Vol. 3 Issue 7 - ‘THE'REGALL ' July 1952
. *sssss****
Published monthly by the Hudson Highlands Dog Training Club
Newburgh,‘N.Y.
**********#****************$******$****%********************************************
Marjorie Hess, Editor _ _ Barbara Perrott, Art Editor
harie Keesler, Asst. Editor - g Fred Hess
Judy Bard Joan Naubereit

Pauline Dixon.
***************#********************************#****$***************$***$*******$*

Editorial
******$**

The Hatch-Metcalfe bill, concerning New York State legislation for the use of
animals for soientific research purposes, has been the cause of much controversy
among people interested in the welfare of animals in general, but to many, it is
just another bill and means little or nothing.

To those interested, a "middle of the road" attitude seems to be impossible.

They are either definately for or against it. Those in favor are unable to see the
bad points, and those against the bill see nothing but the bad points.

Too much bitterness and too little understanding between the two factions has
been the cause for the bill to be passed. Better organization, presented in a calm
and reasonable manner might have caused the acceptance cf a modified form of the bill.

We are told that more and more education is the only hope of the future, but ed-
ucation does not necessarily make for more intelligence if the education is not used
in a constructive manner. We owe much to science, but we should realize that we '
need something more than science, and that is the training of the human intellect in
the art of kindness and charity. ' ' "

It must be remembered that the Hatchémetcalfe bill allows the assignment of only
those animals already doomed to die in pounds to authorized research laboratories
under medical control.

many of the animals used in research laboratories receive far better treatment
with balanced diets and clean living quarters than they would elsewhere, when con“
sideration is-taken of the fact that they were unwanted by their owners, and probsb«
1y many would have been turned out on to the streets to fend fer themselves.‘

We should all fight together with humans societies, nimal societics'etc. toward
amendments to the law that will protect all animals in making them harder to obtain
for research purposes.4 ‘

Vivisection may be called our biggest-and bittcrest national dog fight, and as
none of us can be a hundred per cent right in our views, let us look at the matter
with Open minds and try to meet each other half way.

It appears that some scientists may think all stray dogs should be turned over to
laboratories. How can they demand this when all animal welfare centers were founded
to prevent cruelty to animals? '

The American medical Association, the American Psychological Association and
other professional groups have adepted voluntary codes for the control and care of
animals used fox'rOScarch purposes, but none can enforce these codes, and there are
many convenient-loopholes, even though a few states have laws governing the use of
animals in laboratories. ' ' ‘

Probably in the United States millions of animals are used in experiments each
year,-which would seem to be an excessive number, hundreds being used for an orper~
iment where perhaps a dozen would have sufficed. ' ’ '

In this respect our country is far behind several countries in Europe, where
effedtive national legislation on vivisoction and researchfin general is much more
specific than the state laws inlAmerica.

Great Britain, which is responsible for many of the greatest medical discoveries,
heads the list as the leader with the best vivisection laws. ‘

 




,
Recall~~ag~

The British Cruelty To Animals Act has had only one modification since the days
of Queen Victoria, and it has been admitted that.it is the best legislation of its
kind. The British laws make it mandatory that unanimsl suffering severe pain which
may continue, must be put to sleep by the scientist in whose care it may be, and if
the scientist violates any of the provisions in the Act, he can lose his license to
experiment with animals.

Let us hope that the answer to the problem of‘vivisection is near to solution.

loward this end tho Animal welfare Institute has undertaken to untangle this one
‘ormous task.

The aim.of the society is to take the middle of the road between the two oposing
fa ctions, to try and decrease the amount of unnecessary suffering to animals without
retarding scientific progress.

It intends to make surveys concerning animals now used in laboratories, and it
will explain the needs of resee.rch to the public, at the same time asking scientists
to use fewer animals. ‘

essences»:usuuessesesee *tiwltakak*vﬁctws*Ilwatallmlmllsiul:*#**$$**¢******#$#¢*$*M.H.*akatcakaktakak
SHOW NEWS

On Sunday, In oy 25th, IKenneth Bellerson, Josephine She.ttuck and daughter, Patty,
and.msrie Keeslcr bro ved the stormy weather and started out for the Plainfield
Kennel Club Show at Dunellen, N.J., hoping all-the way that the rain would stop.
'lnstead, it rained harder: ‘

As they were making up their minds whether or not to go into the show, they heard
the loud speaker calling for the "Doberman Pinscher Puppies." Fritz was entered in
that class, so they splashed through water up to their knees, jumped streams, got
soakiﬁg‘ wet (even Fritz resented it) and.mede their way to the tent. betunatoly,
the ring in which Fritz was to be shown was dry. He came out with a blue ribbon and
first prize, which cheered them.up a bit. He was handled by Josephine.

Fritz was also entered in Obedience. Eerie, who was wearing boots, volunteered
to plow through the mud to the obedience tent to see what was going on.- She learned
that the judge had decided to go on with the obedience and do a double "Sit" and
eliminate the "Down” as the ring had a couple of inches of water in it, but the dogs
had more sense than the humans and refused to even “sit“ in that mud and water, so
they had to call off the obedience. It was rumored that the committee was scouting
around.Plainfield looking for a building in which to continue the obedience, but our
members feeling thoroughly disgusted, decided to leave, Josephine had to drive home
in her bare feet, as her shoes and socks were soaking'wet, fortunately, no one got
sick, but I guess they'will never forget the PLAINFIELDVSHOU:

sseseseeeuwseasaceeeueeeuuem.x.

To one who had never before attended the fabulous Lorrie and Essex Kennel Club
Show, its 25th annual competition held on the Polo field of the Giralda Farms estate
of‘mrs. Hartley Dodge in Lndison, New Jersey, on.Ehy 24th, was truly an exciting ex-
perience. The magnitude of the Operation was quite awe-inspiring with its 45 judging
rings and enormous tents, and can be compared in size only to that “Greatest Show on
Earth." This writer was told that the huge tents used for shelter took two weeks to
erect and the grass was out four times in that fortnight. Seventy people helped
keep the show running and 95 high school boys did the errands. Sixtybeight breeds
and varieties were represented and 2851 dogs competed.

The day started off bright and sunny, but by 19 to fternoon, rein es s with us
again as usual this seoson. Only once before has it rained on L.m E show day.
However, this your it seems'that anything can happen with regard to the weather.

 




m W07 en ﬂaw
“ ﬂap/g 4,.

Mary/‘5

ihP-A-lﬂﬂw ﬁnmr Aaanriatinn, lint. ,

 

__ ¢3\

NEWSLETTER

VOLUME 1, NUMBER 11 JULY, 1952

EDITED BY

J. J. MCCOY

 




PAGE

le were very much interested in
learning that Mrs. Roger Stevens,
wife of the midwest realty man,
Roger Stevens, has become active in
humane work.

Hrs. Stevens recently founded
the Animal Welfare Institute, an
organization engaged in instituting
reforms which will secure humane
treatment of animals in laborator—
ies.

This is all the more interest-
ing since Hrs. Stevens is the daugh-
ter of a scientist who used animals
for‘research.

*****

There‘s a new
dog shampoo that comes in one of

What next?

those “aerosol" containers. You
press a button and you get a spray
of dry lather. Rub it on and wipe
it off—~~it cleans, de—fleas and de-
odorizes. Made by E. J. Lush, Inc.,
New Haven, Gonnacticut.

*****

E.J. writes: "My Irish Setter
had a litter of six pups. Three of
them have small lumps near the um-
bilical cord. Ihat are they and
what can be done?

The pups have umbilical hern-
ias. If they are small, your Vet-
erinarian may correct the condition
by applying pressure. Otherwise
surgery is necessary.

THREE

 

 

A.T. of the Bronx wants to know
when a cat can be considered mature.

A cat is full grown when it is
about six or seven months old. It can
be considered fully matured when it
reaches one year. However, the age of
maturity differs among individual cats.

*****

H.B. of Manhattan asks:“What is
the correct way to use a leash?"

Hold your end of the leash firmly
in your right hand. Keep the dog on
your left side; this means that the
leash will cross over in front of you.
In breaking the dog to heel, take up the
slack in the leash until the dog‘s
front legs are even with your left knee.
Keep him there. If he leaps ahead of
you, jerk him back with the command
”heel!" If he lags behind, move him
forward. Both you and the dog should
move at a brisk pace.

*****

R.L. writes this poser: "In the
Sporting Dog group, what two breeds
originated in America?"

The Ohesapeake Bay Retriever and
the American Water Spaniel.

*****

9.x. asks: 'Is Lindane a safe in~
secticide to use on cats?"

HO! Lindane is.toxic to cats.
the Rotehone or Pyrethrum powders.

Use

 




x..:rsé £5 -. p.
' v.43 away

Symcizﬂ. to iﬁamiﬂailisas . . Mimi Tsﬁsalfam Institute
{550 Fifth Ave.
Relaam on receipt ' Kev: York: City. N. Y.

mm m. Albgrt ﬁchweitzer maﬁa]... specially (3.68 ignead for the
00cm ism by Gus ‘

(Max:359) to m. Robert a. Bay. of Salt Kai-1:8 City. for his centributions
mmrei graze? came of anizmls usad in lgaboratary experiments to adirance
human 121m :73». Ag? .

Dr. Bag. 53. veterimwian. received the award at Michigan 55mm
waiverséity, East kins mg. Mich.

Exam-ad after the famed Alsat 1am scientist and yhiloswher. :th has
devoteci hiss life to medical missgionary lifﬁrlsf'. in Africa, the medal is maﬁa of
bronge and. engraved ":33. th heads of 5mimals and 1:22:10 inscriytions, bath guetatians
fmm 112x“. Schweitzer: "1‘69 need a bemdl ass ethics #43th will 1210111113 animals
also.” and ”Ravemnca for foe.“

Dr. Bay was 01103911 for his except 10:15:21 Care and humane tregzztmem
cf lmbczmtary animals at the Imivemity of Utah and his work in encoumgmg
batten)? hens ig {ma trwtmarzt of animala in Other labérmtory anizml quarters.

‘Zme award carries a}, cash prize of 33500.

Edwarci H. Kraus, Dean Emraritus of the College of aitax'a.ature.
Science and; Arts. Universsity of Edichigah. presented the Bohland-desiggmad
maﬁa}. m 3r. Bay.

The award was made during sessions 61‘ the Magrican Institute

of Biological Sciences meeting, at MSU. Same 3.000 scientiéts and. observers

area attending the AIRS sessions.

 




U‘\
m
O\
H
q}
"3
‘4
O
3i
O
E
G)
O
a
0
-H
U
U)
(.1
d,
-H
4.3
0)
W4.
H
.E
L)

For Humane

A current Information Report it om
the Animal Welfare Institute in New
York recounts some beginnings of
progress in improving the methods
by which meat animals are slough-—
tered in the United States.

In Minnesota the Hormel Packing
Company passes hogs through a car—
bon dioxide gas chamber, making
them unconscious before the “stick
ing" process. The Oscar l‘dayer Com-
pany in Wisconsin has adopted th
captive~bolt pistol which is in com-
mon use. in Europe, especially for
cattle. The Seitz Packing Company
in Missouri "uses this instrument in
combination with ﬂoodlights which

Slanghtering

cause. the cattle to stand still. and re—
ports that it would, not, if it could,
go back to the former sledgevhsn‘imer
method of stunning the animals.

The rational Humane Society
(Washington, DC.) has recently
voted a grant to two large veterinary
schools to study the use of electric
stunning, which is employed abroad,
and to seek to make it acceptable to
the Department of Agriculture meat
inspection service.

More humane methods of slaugh~
tering certainly are to be desired.
Bills now in CongresstlBSﬁ and
HR 6099~~would require conforma-
tion to standards already established
in many other Cz.:iuzitries.

 




.
l"-
._

s » x
k...‘ 1’

16W ? " ﬂaw

Animal Housing Proiect

House plans are always fascinating,
even those for the lower species. Sup-
pose a research hospital provides a
comfortable room for rats with clean
warm cages and bilateral lighting. It
will ﬁnd that pregnant and lactating
rats do not like either direct daylight
or overhead artiﬁcial lighting. They

not only don’t like light but they pre-
fer privacy at such a time.

An English researcher, R. T. Charles,
found that when his research unit
moved the rat colony into ﬁne new
quarters, the mOthers began to negleCt
their progeny. The mortality rate of
the baby rats (called pups) raised in
wire cages on grid ﬂoors and in a

 

 

 

Fast-acting therapy in . . . a l ,

NORMAL SERUM

(HUMAN)

 

READY FOR

IMMEDIATE US!

A liquid, human blood fraction—ready for immediate

infusion without delay for reconstitution, grouping,

typing or crossmatching. Draws 35 times its volume

into circulation within 15 minutes. Space-saver

package contains 50 cc. Albumin solution and

complete administration set.

HYLAND LABORATORIES

-0 COLORADO BLVD., LOS ANGELES 39, CALIF.

DWAY, YONKERS 5, NY.

 

brightly lighted room 9'

per cent. Mr. Charles re

ﬂoors and put down sawaus.
placed sheet metal on the sides of tn.
cages and put up blinds to cut down
the light to semidarkness during day-
light hours. With these changes only,
the mortality rate of later pups was
reduced to less than 1 per cent.

Patricia Woodhead of the British
Schering Research Institute made the
same discovery and so she designed a
small light wooden box with a de-
tachable lid. As soon as a rat has been
mated, one of these boxes is placed in
the cage. The box contains some ﬁne
hay, wood wool, and torn-up news-
paper to make it cozy. Twice a week
the cages are cleaned and a clean box
is put in. After the pups are born, the
cage is cleaned twice a week but the
box is untouched for two weeks. After
that the boxes are cleaned twice weekly
until the pups are weaned. The mOther
is then enticed away and soon becomes
reconciled.

For hospitals planning animal quar-
ters or considering a remodeling pro-
gram with new equipment, a loose-leaf
publication containing ﬂoor plans, pic-
tures and construCtion details of en-
closures and cages is available from
the Animal Welfare Institute, 350
Fifth Avenue, New York City. It is
called "Comfortable Quarters for Lab-
oratory Animals.”

No Toothbrush?

Incredible though it may seem, the
bright new patient-book of the San
Antonio Community Hospital, Upland,
Calif, contains no list of what to bring.

A. A. Aita, administrator, made a
fresh start in planning this book.
Everything that went in had to meas-
ure up in (1) necessity and (2) read-
ability.

Instead of the usual list of things
to bring, you ﬁnd this paragraph:

forgotten anything?
We may be able to help you. The

pharmacy can supply toilet articles as
well as prescriptions.

“Today people know what to bring.
We don’t have to tell them. If they
should bring too much, or not enough,
we can take care of the excess or
supply the lacking articles,” says Mr.
Aita.

X-ray, laboratory, surgery, anesthesia
and other departments are n0t men-
tioned—except to say that they won’t
be mentioned, thus:

The MODERN HOSPITAL

 




 




ﬁWI publicity

The EV for July 1959 Page 108 quotes AMI Inf.Report h-B and 7-1 in article

re Experimenﬁs on Animals by School-Children by M.Beddow Bayly

 




September 2h, 1953a

FROM: John Scott Fones
Gramercy*NewsuAssociates
2h? Park Avenue '

New Yerk, N; YE
Plaza S~2200

FOR RELEASE:
Menday, September 28, 1953

MIAMI SCULPTORgCHO§EN TO DESIGN FIRST SCHWEITZER MEDAL

Gustav Bohland, Sculptor of Miami Beach, has been commissioned

to design the Annual Albert Schweitzer Medal which will be awarded
each year by the Animal welfare Institute to the person in any
profession who makes a major contribution to the humane treatment of

animals, the Institute announced today.

The annual recipient of the medal will be chosen primarily for
his contribution to the welfare of laboratory animals, but it might
also be awarded to anyone making an outstanding hwmane advance in

the treatment of animals in general.

The Animal Welfare Institute emphasized that the recipient can
be from virtually any walk of life; a biologist who uses animals in
his investigations, a veterinarian who has made a major discovery
beneficial to animal health; a writer who has brought to the reading
public some constructive thoughts on the treatment of laboratory
animals; an "animal farm" man whose general allegiance to his work
benefits the animals he cares for; a medical scientist who has devised
methods of increasing the comforts of the animals with which he works;

or a designer, a businessman or student. There is no limit.

(more)

 




-2-

The award, whose purpose is to prevent unnecessary suffering
to laboratory animals, will permanently honor the noted Dr. Albert
Schweitzer of Lambarene, French.Equatorial Africa, whose widely read

works on the philosOphy of life have been translated into many

languages.

The Animal Welfare Institute, with headquarters in the Empire
State Building in New York, is a national organization interested
primarily in the housing and care of laboratory animals; the discover;
of suitable methods of procurement without jeopardizing constructive ‘
humane work; the establishment of a standard code of ethics for the
use of laboratory animals. The Institute believes that science and

humanitarianism should complement each other.

#‘# #

(Editor: Suggested picture, Dr. Albert Schweitzer, from your files).

 




February 25, 1953

John Scott Fones
Gramercy News Associates
2A7 Park Ave.

New York, N.Y.

Plaza 5-2200

EQR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE APPLAUQ§

NEW, HUMANS HQG-SLAUGHTERING METHOD

‘Ege of Anesthesia Before "Shackling"

and "Sticking" Praised

 

The lead article in the newest issue of the Information

 

Report of the Animal Welfare Institute, out today, discusses an
"Important New Use for Anesthesia": the anesthetizing of hogs
prior to slaughter in the Austin, Minnesota packing plant of

George A. Honmel and Company.

Ten thousand hogs are received daily at this plant, and all
of them.are now anesthetized with harmless 002 Carbon Dioxide,
converted from dry ice, before slaughter. Pain and fear for the
animal are eliminated, and at the same time the efficiency of the

operation is increased.

The article quotes John C, Macfarlane, Director of Livestock
Loss Prevention for the Massachusetts SPCA, who made a recent visit
to Austin: "The hog is no longer hoisted while kicking and twist-
ing to arrive at another level excited and exhausted, subjected to
great physical pain and often arriving with damaged hams. From
the moment they were anesthetized to the very end, they never
once regained consciousness."

(more)

 




-2-
Also quoted at length in the A.W.I. Report is L. W. Murphy.

of Honmel's Service Division.

"The new method of hanging hogs is the result of considerable
research. we realized that the cost of shackling was high, and a
rough job for both man and hog; it was noisy and dirty and dangerous.
Good sticking is difficult with an active hog threshing about sus-
pended on a chain. There was a possibility of harm.to the meat
from overheating a hog, and a shock condition caused by his climb-

ing a ramp and resisting the drag of the shackling chain.

Anesthesia was the answer."

At Hormel, hogs are directed onto a moving conveyor which
transports them to a lower level into which a tap emits blasts of
002, heavier than air, which renders them.inactive and insensitive
for from 15 to 20 seconds. This period of time, according to Mr.
murphy, is more than ample for both the hanging and the sticking.
Also, if permitted to live, the hog will be rid of the 002 in less
than a minute and be able to walk away under its own power.
Unconscious, the hog proceeds along the moving ramp up to the
original level, waist-high to the operator, where he is shackled

and hoisted for sticking and subsequent slaughter.

Meat from anesthetized hogs has been tested and approved in
Washington. Hormel has factored over 300,000 hogs to date by the

anesthesia method without losing a hog.

###

 




October 29, 19?

SCIENCE Magazine, December 5, issue.
J.S. Fones

Gramercy News Associates

2h? Park Avenue

New York 17, N.Y
PLaza S~2200

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Established in 1951 as a non-profit educational and re-
search organization in the field of laboratory animals includ-
ing their care, housing and procurement, The Animal welfare
Institute has three immediate aims in its work toward a more
complete understanding between science and humanitarianism:

l) The encouragement of medical research techniques of the
highest quality, to reduce both the pain and number of animals
required in the laboratory; 2) to discover the most suitable
methods of procurement of laboratory animals without jeopardiz-
ing constructive humane work; 3) the establishment of a

standard code of ethics for the use of laboratory animals.

The Institute provides a forum and clearing house for
the legitimate claims of scientists and humanitarians alike,
and has made considerable progress in this field since last

e x p05 {Hon
year's exhibition in Philadelphia. President of the organi-

zation is Christine Stevens, and headquarters are at 730 Fifth

Avenue, New York 19, N.Y ##Members of the Advisory Committee
include Dr. Lee R. Dice, Dinactor Institute of Human Biology,

 




  

GRAMERCY N EWS ASSOCIATES

 

IN CO RPO RATED

TWO FORTY SEVEN PARK AVENUE,NEW YORK

 

PLAZA 5 - 2200

BENJAMIN SONNENBERG

PRESIDENT

September 19, 1952

Mrs. Roger L. Stevens
The Carlyle

35 East 76th Street
New York,N.Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Enclosed is a release, for your edification,
based on the distribution of the Annual Report. I
would like to send it out to a list of one hundred or
so editors in the science and animal fields during the

week.

I will call you on Tuesday and if the release

meets with your approval will arrange to have copies of
it - with a copy of the Report attached — mailed Monday

night.

Very best regards.

Sincereﬁya\

  




FROM: John Scott Fones ‘ For Immediate release_
Gramercy News Associates '“"
2h? Park Avenue, N.Y.C.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE COMPLETES FIRST YEAR

New York, N.Y. -9 The Animal Welfare Institute, a national organization
which began functioning a year ago, distributed its Annual Report to members
this week. The group has concentrated its activities on the collection
and dissemination of valuable information on the subject of the housing,
care, treatment and procurement of animals used for research.

"Basic problems involved in the use of laboratory animals," says the
report, "are ethical ones, demanding a better understanding between
science and the humanities. Dr. Albert Schweitzer represents, through his
great accomplishments in medicine, practical Christianity and ethics. The
Institute has sought Dr. Schweitzer's guidance and received much personal
encouragement from him."

Through consultation and correspondence the Institute has, over the

past twelve months, obtained a fund of information including both fact and

opinion essential for the evaluation ofpotential co-operation between the

biological sciences and the humanities in the field of animal'welfare.
Representatives of the Animal welfare Institute have taken part in
conventions and gatherings such as the exhibition and convention of the
American Association.for the Advancement of Science, the Convention of the
American Humane Association, and the convention of the Universities Fed~
eration for Animal Welfare in Londogf:ﬁd¥§:;)the past twelve months.
Representatives have also been active in their visits to "animal farms"
of laboratories both in this country and abroad. Detailedzreports on these

visits have not been made public, but according to the Annual Report of the

Institute, "They include examples of first-rate consideration and care for

 




laboratory animals, " but also "examples of ignorance, callousneee, and

filth, as well as numerous degrees of intermediate conditions."

Christine SteVens is founder and President of the Animal Welfare

Institute at 730 Fifth Avenue, New YOrk 1?, N.Y. Literature on its aims

and objectives is available at that address.

##2##

 




Bulletins

"In Your Service: The Work of
\ Uncle Sam’s Forest Rangers" is a

new, illustrated booklet, the title
of which is descriptive. It is avail-
able from the Superintendent of
Documents, US. Government Print-
ing Office, Washington 25, DC, for
20 cents.

”Misguided Missiles" is the title
of the let edition of the highway
safety booklet issued by The Travelers
Insurance Companies, Hartford, Con-
necticut. In cartoon and statistics
it pictures the problems of highway
safety.

”The American Tree Farmer” is
published by American Forest Prod-
ucts Industries, Inc., 1816 N Street,
N.W., Washington 6, DC. as a
report on the progress of the Tree
Farm movement fostered by this
organization. ‘

The January-February ”Informa-
tion Report" of the Animal Welfare
Institute, 350 Fifth Avenue, New
York 1, N.Y., contains a report on
the incredible and inexcusable cruelty
to monkeys being ﬂown in from India
for experimental purposes.

”The Bard of Greenbush" is a
Vbiography of Samuel Woodworth,
Massachusetts poet and author of
The Old 04km Bucket. This 20-page
pamphlet is the work of William
Gould (Cap’n Bill) Vinal and is a
Vinehall Publication, N orwell, Mass-
achusetts, selling for ﬁfty cents.

”The Genus Clarkia" is a 150-
page booklet on this plant genus.
It is the work of Harlan Lewis
and Margaret Ensign Lewis and is
published by the University of Cali-
fornia Press, Berkeley 4, California,
at two dollars.

”Point Lobos Reserve” is a 96-
page bulletin edited by Aubrey
Drury and subtitled ”Interpretation
of a Primitive Landscape.” This
excellent illustrated discussion of
this ﬁne California State Park is for
sale at one dollar, plus tax, (3 cents)
by the Printing Division, State of
California, Sacramento 14, Califor-
nia.

”Pet Hamsters” is a 28—page,
illustrated booklet on the care and
training of hamsters as pets. It is
published by All-Pets Books, Inc.,
Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, at thirty-
ﬁve cents.

”How to Make a Neighborhood
Wildlife Album" by Vinson Brown
is a 16-page bulletin published by
Naturegraph Co., Rt. 1, Box 190A,
San Martin, California, and is avail—

MENTION Nature Magazine WHEN ANSWERING ADVERTISEMENTS

able at ﬁfty cents.

“Wood-Frame House Construc-
tion” by L. O. Anderson and O. C.
Heyer is a 235-page, paper-covered
publication, illustrated by plans,
and published as Agriculture Hand-
book No. 73, and available from
Superintendent of Documents, U. S.
Government Printing Office, Wash-
ington 25, D. C., for sixty—ﬁve cents.

“Free and Inexpensive Learning
Materials” is published in a sixth
edition by the Division of Surveys
and Field Services, George Peabody
College for Teachers, Nashville 5,
Tennessee. It is available for $1.00.

”Perkie Plants" is a 24-page book-
let descriptive of Ivy Hill Forest,
Cockeysville, Maryland, which is
dedicated to conservation. The book-
let describes the plants available
there and is a most distinctive cata—
log.

A new illustrated map and guide
to Rock Creek Park in the District
of Columbia has been prepared by
Robert Shosteck and Stephen Kraft.
It shows roads, footpaths, Nature
trails, scenic and historic points,
bridle paths, picnic and recreational
facilities and bus routes. It is avail-
able from Robert Shostek, Route 1,
Brookeville, Maryland, for 35 cents.

Most recent Cornell Rural School
leaﬂet to come to hand is ”Summer
Nature Explorations” by Eva L.
Gordon. Free to New Yorkers, 25
cents to others, from Department of
Rural Education, Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York.

Cahalane to N. Y.

For the past ﬁfteen years Victor
H. Cahalane has headed the wild—
life management program of the
National Park Service, making an
outstanding contribution in that
post. He joined the Service in 1930
as a ﬁeld biologist, is the author of
several books and many papers,
and has lectured extensively on
national parks. Mr. Cahalane has
resigned his post with the Federal
Government to take over the position
of assistant director of the New York
State Museum in Albany, New York.

Films

Sterling Educational Films has
spent a year re-evaluating and classi—
fying its 16mm non-theatrical ﬁlm
library. New titles have been added
and a catalog reﬂecting this work
has been issued. It is available on
request from Sterling Educational
Films, 205 East 43rd Street, New
York 17, N. Y.

 

 

ENJOY

Happy Holidays
THE WHOLE YEAR nounm

“WONDERFUL!"
“BREATH-TAKINGLY BEAUTIFUL!"
“DELIGHTFULLY INFORMATIVE!"

You cannot resist similar gasps of ad—
miration, when you examine the superb,

new PICTORIAL TRAVEL ATLAS OF
SCENIC AMERICA.

oYou will be enchanted by its hundreds
of gorgeous colored illustrations,-

OYou will be enthralled by its vital, in-
teresting descriptions of all scenic

SpOtS;
oYou will be delighted with its 96 road

maps, travel information, and sug-

gested touring routes.
Never before have travel—minded Amer-
icans had such an informative, Iascinat-
ing guide to the grandeur and beauty of
our country. By charming color pictures,
graphic maps and lively text, they are

transported by the TRAVEL ATLAS TO

ALL THE MOST SEE-WORTHY
TRAVEL SPOTS OF
UNITED STATES AND CANADA

This big, (9-1/2 x 12—1/2") complete
book (256 scenic thrill-packed pages) is
especially prepared for the travel-lover
0T0 plan vacation trips—previews of the
pleasure ahead,-
0 To prevent overlooking any sightseeing
spot en route,-
OTo recall interesting scenic wonders
previously beheld,-
OTo travel in mind to marvels of nature
everywhere,-
0T0 entertain children and assist them
with their studies.

AMERICAN NATURE ASSOCIATION
1214 16th Street N. W.
Washington 6, D. C.

Please send me ...... copies of Hammonds
Pictorial Travel Atlas of Scenic America at
only $10 each.

(Postage prepaid on all books)

Name .................................
Address ...............................
City ................ Zone-\. . .State ......

\
339

W W Clea-W I743”

 




 

“——-—v———v--M. -v—m » , ~.__,«~...-.—~’ ~ _....—._._ . . ._

m ~.~p—..,r« -‘

POPULAR DOGS, SEPTEMBER 1955

‘ Transportation

by Christine Stevens

THOUSANDS upon thousands of monkeys
have been ﬂying the Atlantic and the Paciﬁc
Oceans this year on their way to laboratories
and pharmaceutical houses engaged in the
manufacture of polio vaccine. Rhesus mon’
keys from India, Java monkeys from Singa’
pore, and cynomolgous monkeys from the
Philippines are arriving by the hundreds at
airports in New York, San Francisco, Newark,
Savannah, Indianapolis and Toronto, to name
a few. At least 100,000 have been brought to
this country this Year.

As it costs about $15 toﬂy a monkey from
his native land to the United States, it would
be reasonable to suppose that the substantial
funds involved in purchasing and importing
large quantities of monkeys and the money
to be made from the vaccine for which manu’
facture they are used, would provide an auto,
matic guarantee that they would receive
careful, humane treatment from the moment
of their capture till their arrival in the laborar
tory. That is far from being the case.

The Government of India had to impose
an embargo on monkeys and follow it up
with regulations in order to obtain decent
treatment for these sensitive, intelligent little
creatures. Continued efforts of American ani’
mal protective organizations and law enforce-
ment agencies are required to obtain minimum
standards in the shipment of monkeys from
other parts of the world than India.

The embargo ran from early March till
early in April of this year, and after it was
lifted, regulations were put in effect which
have been successful in preventing the terrible
abuses which were observed in Indian shipr
ments arriving this Winter. Until very re’
cently, monkeys from Singapore came in the
most pitiable condition, but continued protests
and inspections led at last to the ﬁrst properly
crated shipment from Singapore, in June of
this year. Representatives of the National
Humane Society and the Animal Welfare
Institute who had been meeting monkey cargo
planes for months breathed a sigh of relief——
but not for a job completed. Flights continued
to have to be watched, and disturbing reports
on shipment of cynomolgous monkeys arriving
from the Philippines via the West Coast
simply changed the focus again to another
species of monkey.

Nevertheless, enormous progress has been
made in alleviating the suffering of monkeys
in transit. Compare a few of the conditions
noted earlier this year with those which ob!
tained in shipments this Summer: One Winter

 

 

 

shipment was observed being unloaded from
a cargo plane by sending the monkey crates
down a long, steep metal slide to crash at the
bottom. A cleaning method observed con;
sisted in knocking the crate hard against the
cement ﬂoor three times to shake the debris
loose. The effect on the monkeys, some of
whom were pregnant, can be imagined.
Deaths and still’births among pregnant mon’
keys on such a trip are high, and little attempt
was being made to avoid the shipment of
animals in such a condition this Winter.

Overcrowding on some ﬂights was appall’
ing, and it continued in the shipments from
Singapore whose dealers constructed crates
with no thought for the monkeys compelled
to occupy them; some could not even sit up’
right but were obliged to crouch for days!
The monkeys were bruised on arrival. Thin,
wire mesh ﬂloors sagged into the dirt below.
Some crates were nailed shut, so the small
water dishes never could be removed from the
crowded crates for cleaning and were so ﬁlthy
after the week’long trip as to be almost useless.

One shipment, observed this June had
eliminated these abuses. Monkey crates were
removed from the plane by fork lift, a pice of
airport equipment which combines a small
elevator with a jeep and permits a maximum
of gentleness in handling. The cleaning was
done by the removal of a metal tray from the
bottom of the improvised crates without dis'
turbing the animals. No pregnant monkeys
were seen, and the crates were not severely
overcrowded. All monkeys could sit upright
and move about, and they had wooden slats
rather than wire mesh on which to sit. Water
pans were clean and removable and ran the
full length of the crates so all the thirsty
monkeys could get a drink at once when the
pans were ﬁlled. It is to be hoped that it will
not be long before all monkeys arriving in
this country will be handled in this manner.
They surely deserve at least this much in
return for their sacrﬁce for human beneﬁt.

The Federal law which makes it a criminal
offense to import animals or birds into this
country under inhumane or unhealthful con!
ditions can be applied where protests or edu’
cation fail. An ofﬁcial order recently went out
to customs inspectors in New York to report
on the condition of monkey shipments, with
emphasis on the percentage of dead or dying
animals. This has had a healthy inﬂuence.
Airlines and importers have been issuing
ultimatums of their own to one another in
recent months, and improvements such as
those noted above have been the result.

If decent crates, adequate care and quiet i
handling can be achieved, only one other
major need remains: better diet for the ani-
mals. Frederick A. Ulmer, Jr., Curator of
Mammals at the Philadelphia Zoological Gar-
dens, found that the majority of monkeys
which die soon after arrival in this country
are suffering from acute malnutrition. Air-
line attendants have informed us that mon-
keys will sometimes refuse the kind of food
they are given en route. These small, slender
animals, most of whom are young and still
growing, need a nutritious diet in order to
withstand the strain of the long trip.

Very few of us have had an opportunity to
get to know monkeys as we know our dogs,
and so their courage and devotion is not as
well know as it should be. Trappers have to
be careful to escape quickly with their catch
if they do not want to be attacked by the
brave little animals which try to rescue those
members of their band caught in the nets.
Although most of them weigh under ten
pounds, their desire to free their friends and
relatives is so strong that they have been
known to kill their enemy. Such spirit should
inspire respect, as their sensitivity should inr
spire compassion. Humane treatment of these
animals should be a matter of course.

 

 

 

 

 




lea/(2:7 ﬁgmnﬁz

Basic Care of Animals

If you need to take a dog’s tem-
perature or restrain a tigerish cat or
maintain the morale of a sick monkey
or feed an axolOtl or mark some mice
or tame a rat or bed down a rabbit
or kill a turtle—there’s a lovely book
for you.

Trouble is unless your hospital
keeps laboratory animals, you are nor

going to get this book. That’s too
bad because it is free, informative
and makes you a kinder person.

In the June issue, the Roving Re-
porter mentioned at some length a
publication called "Comfortable Quar-
ters for Laboratory Animals.” This
other book, called ”Basic Care of Ex-
perimental Animals,” is a companion
piece, and it’s a good job of work.

 

Io wer your replacement costs!

 

. . . get
more

 

f

,

 

5;,

 

when you
specify

5
'2

4‘

furniture

 

 

 

PERM - A - LATOR ® ”3

wire insulators

It’s a proven fact! You can make real
savings in replacement costs and at the
same time get greater comfort and
more uniform support in your mat-
tresses and furniture. Insist on the
built-in protection of Perm-A—Lator
Wire Insulators. No matter what you
pay, you’ll get more for your money
and much longer lasting products. This
EXTRA VALUE costs no more—so
ask your supplier -— make sure you get
wire insulators when you buy mat-
tresses and furniture.

Write Today For Free Booklet!

Perm-A-Lator Wire Insulators Made by

FLEX-O-LATORS, INC.
Carthage, Mo.

Plants in Carthage, Mo., New Castle, Pa.,
High Point, N. C.

 

.

PROVEN ICE STRONGER
THAN ORDINARY INSULATORS

Millions of rolling cycles prove conclu-
sively that wire insulators give permanent
protection against ”coil-feel” . . add
longer life to all upholstered products.

 

Monkey cage supplied with resting
board, fountain and a parallel bar.

Today a sizable number of persons
are employed in laboratories that use
animals for experimental purposes.
This booklet has been prepared es-
pecially for newcomers in this ﬁeld.
The Animal Welfare Institute, which
publishes it, is an organization rep-
resenting the combined interests of
experimental biology and animal pro-
tection. Its publications are based on
the premise that bOth science and
humanitarianism are served by keep-
ing laboratory animals contented and
healthy. .

The Universities Federation for.
Animal Welfare in London pioneered
in publishing this type of informa-
tion; 25 biologists with long experi—
ence working with different species
collaborated on two valuable publica-
tions. Other countries are following
suit.

Any worker with laboratory ani-
mals who wants the animals to like
and trust him, who wants to keep
the animals healthy and contented,
and who wants to keep their quarters
clean, dry and comfortable can get
”Basic Care of Experimental Animals”
free by writing Animal Welfare In-
stitute, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York
City.

On the Bonnie, Bonnie Banks

Britain’s ﬁrst new complete hospi-
tal since 1938 will be opened at
Alexandria, Dunbartonshire, Scorland,
this month. It is planned for efﬁcient
yet economic stafﬁng and has a mag-
niﬁcent view of Loch Lomond from
its forecourt.

Eighteen standard units, each 100

The MODERN HOSPITAL

 




Booklet On

1 Animal Care

= What Dr. Spock has done for

children, Ernest P. Walker, as-
' sistant director of the National
Zoological Park in Washington,
has done for animals. Mr. Walk-
er has written a new forty-
eight-page
for the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute, “First Aid and Care of
Small Animals.” \

Included in this concise and

, tudes; Injured or Ill Animals;
‘ Observations on Feeding; Mam-

 

ie Cultures and Final Disposition
it of Animals. There are also nu-
merous sections on dealing with
wild animals. The publication is
offered to teachers in primary
and secondary schools without
charge by the Animal Welfare
Institute, 350 Fifth Ave., New
York. Copies are available to the

 

 

ing the institute.

MHz/”W . ;

illustrated booklet ‘l

readable booklet are such topics ;
asr Developing Humane Atti- ";

 

3 experiments.

mals; Birds; Reptiles; Amphib- ‘2

,a $500 cash ’ '. . .
ians; Fish; Invertebrates; Food - prize, wasmade at

. the national meeting of the Ameri-

 

 

 

' public for 25 cents each by writ- ;

 

ESTABLISHED 1888 3
BArclay 7-5371 ‘

PRESS CLIPPING BUREAU
I65 Cj’rurch Street - New York

CADILLAC, MICH.

NEWS
Circ. D. 5.388

SE99 1955 '-

 

 

t:Utah Veterinarian ’
Gels. Schweitzer Medal

, EAST LANSING, Mich. (UP) —— “
Dr. Robert C.\ Bay, a veterinarian
from Salt Lake City, Utah, was
awarded the first Dr. Albert,
Schweitzer Medal Thursday for his
contributions toward proper care.
of animals used in laboratory

The award, a bronze medala and i

can Institute of Biological Sciences 1
at Michigan State University. T
Sponsored by the _Animal We —'§
fare Institute ofMN. ' 4
the”““awafdmis§wnamed" after the I
famed Alsatian scientist and phil-
osopher who has devoted hislife
to medical missionary work in
Africa. '
Dr. Bay was selected on the.
basis of his “exceptional care and
humane treatment” of laboratory
animals at the University of Utah
where his work is encouraging
better housing and. treatment of

 

 

animals in other laboratories.

ESTABLISHED.-.

BArclay 7-537I

z'.
t A

 

H—‘W—' -

Salt LakeCity Scientf

Receive Humane

Mrs. Roger Stevens, of Ann .r-
bor and New York, president of the
National Animal Welfare Institute

Mama 0

2'.Washtenaw Humane Society, an-

nounces- “that the first annual Al— "
' bertMSchweitZer award of the Ani-
1 {mal ‘Welfare Institute—a bronze

medal and $500—will be presented
Thursday afternoon at Michigan
State University to Dr. Robert C.
Bay, Salt Lake City, of the Radio-
biology’ Laboratory of the College

' of Medicine at the University of

Utah.

The. medal, named in honor of 3
Dr. Schweitzer and designed by1

Gustav Bohland, will be awarded
annually for a significant contribu-
tion to animal welfare, with espe-
cial emphasis on the advancement

bf laboratory animal welfare by sci- .
Dr. Bay is the first reci—
e medal. 3
was presented to Dr. Schweitzer at ‘1
Oslo, Norway, last year at the ,
time he was awarded the Nobel i

entists.
pient. A gold replica of t

Prize for Peace.

Dr. Bay is the veterinarian in 1
charge of the colony of pure bred .
beagles at the Radiobiology Labora- ‘
tory, financed by the Atomic Ener- 2
gy Commission. Experiments are ’

carried on by Dr. Bay in a well-
designed modern and excellently
equipped laboratory with spacious
kennels and outside runways. In
the experiments, meticulous care
is taken to avoid unnecessary dis-
comfortL and in cases where severe
suffering might ensue, the animal
is humanely destroyed. Dr. Bay...
a directorof the Utah Humane ,So-

ciety, has been active in promot-f,
mg the humane treatment of ex— ,
perimental animals and 1n.‘1m-._

proving their care and housing in
substandard laboratory ‘ animals
quarters. For his courage and
persistence in helping these ani:

.mals, and for the good example,
he has . set in the Radiobiology
Laboratory, the Schweitzer . medal.-
_will be presented to him. : ' x

. »7‘ At the ceremonies ThurSday_-,':=,Dn.,;j
. V'Lee TR. Dice, director of theaglnig'j"

Y" a
.5 .

as :. .
.

I‘Hniitersityi or. Michigan, wﬂlpr

liStitute , of Human Biology J atb-thgr

i -,
.l ;
OC "1‘
. ' ,2?
~‘l‘ '
'\

tyAw ard

‘ sidéﬁhe presentation to Dr. Bay
Willie made by Dr. Edward H.
Krajf dean emeritus of the Col-,3

Literature, SeienCe and-the
A ’,=Univers'ity of, Michigan,

leg:
__________________.____..—

 

 

 

 

 




Press Release:

 

A new h6-page publication designed especially for use by science teachers in
elementary schools and biology teachers in secondary schools will be featured in the
exhibit of the Animal Welfare Institute, at the AAAS Annual Exposition of Science
and Industry, December 27~30, 1955. Entitled "First Aid and Care of Small Animals",
the booklet was written by Ernest P. Walker, Assistant Director of the National
Zoological Park in Washington, D.C. Mr. Walker knows animals as an expert and as
a friend and has spent many years in the study and protection of animals for the
U.S. Government; his excellent publications, such as "The Care of Captive Animals"
for the Smithsonian Institution and "The Monkey Book" published by Macmillan in 195h,
have contributed greatly to a better understanding of animals and their needs. The
Animal Welfare Institute is offering this publication free to teachers in both
primary and secondary schools; additional copies may be purchased for 25¢ each.

Orders for copies will be taken at the Institute’s booth (#51) at the Exposition.

Also on display at the exhibit will be the Institute's other publications -4
"Basic Care of Experimental Animals", a manual designed exclusively for use by
animal room personnel in scientific laboratories, and "Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory Animals", a looseleaf collection of floor plans, construction details,
etc., for the guidance of those planning to construct or remodel animal quarters.
Orders for these also will be taken at the booth; they are free to biologists upon

request.

Copies of the Institute's bi-monthly Information Reports, and its latest Annual

Report, will also be distributed at the booth.

The exhibit will also include photographs of the ceremony at Michigan State
University on September 8, at which the first Albert Schweitzer medal was awarded to
Dr. Robert C. Bay for his outstanding efforts to advance the welfare of laboratory

animals.

it 7’?“ if

 




Press Release:

A new hospage publication designed especially for use by science teachers in
elementary schools and biology teachers in secondary schools will be featured in the
exhibit of the Animal Welfare Institute, at the AAAS Annual Exposition of Science
and Industry, December 27-30, 1955. Entitled "First Aid and Care of Small Animals",
the booklet was written by Ernest P. Walker, Assistant Director of the National
Zoological Park in Washington, D.C. Mr. Walker knows animals as an expert and as
a friend and has spent many years in the study and protection of animals for the
U.S. Government; his excellent publications, such as "The Care of Captive Animals"
for the Smithsonian Institution and "The Monkey Book" published by Macmillan in 195h,

have contributed greatly to a better understanding of animals and their needs. The

Animal Welfare Institute is offering this publication free to teachers in both

primary and secondary schools; additional copies may be purchased for 25¢ each.

Orders for copies will be taken at the Institute's booth (#51) at the Exposition.

Also on display at the exhibit will be the Institute's other publications --
"Basic Care of Experimental Animals", a manual designed exclusively for use by
animal room personnel in scientific laboratories, and "Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory.Animals", a looseleaf collection of floor plans, construction details,
etc., for the guidance of those planning to construct or remodel animal quarters.
Orders for these also will be taken at the booth; they are free to biologists upon

request.

Copies of the Institute's bi-monthly Information Reports, and its latest Annual

Report, will also be distributed.at the booth.

The exhibit will also include photographs of the ceremony at Michigan State
University on September 8, at which the first Albert Schweitzer medal was awarded to
Dr. Robert C. Bay for his outstanding efforts to advance the welfare of laboratory

animals.

###

 




~ " meme?

£'
A?

; .» .
u I "’1 1'! 'a wﬁﬁu'}
‘ _y.... 9“,.

$25

a E
RELEﬂSE ON RECEIPT ng’ﬁgg

fuﬂ‘ﬂwwﬁeww egw‘hywﬁm I “W it

in?“
1 ,

'” f‘ $”ﬁ
3‘35
.41; *

~ . ,e‘l‘i"
aaw4,+iﬂf%§+ﬁ¥ﬁ W

is

Dr. Robert 0. Bay, of Salt Lake city, a veterinarian, was awarded the Dr.
Albert Schweitzer medal for his contributions toward proper care of animals
used in laboratory emperiments to advance human knowledge. The award was made
Thursday (9/8/55) at Michigan state University, East Lansing, Michigan.

Dr. Bay is the fi st person to be awarded the medal. The award is spon-
sored by the Animal welfare Institute, 350 Fifth ave., New York city.

Named after the famed Alsatian scientist ano philOSOpher, who has devoted
his life to medical missionary work in Africa, the medal is made of bronze and
engraved with heads of animals and two inscriptions, both quotations fromDr.
Schweitzer: "we need a boundless ethics which will include aiimals also,"
and "Reverence for Life."

Dr. Bay was chosen for his exceptional care and humane treatment of labor—
atory animals at the University of Utah and his work in encouraging better
housing and treatment of animals in other laboratory'animal quarters.

The award carries a cash prize of $500.

Edward H. Kraus, Dean Emeritu of the College of Literaiure, bcience and
Arts, University of Michigan, made the presentation to Dr. Bay at a brief
ceremony at M50 presided over by Lee R. Lice, Director of the Institute of
HUman Biology, University of Michigan.

The award was made during Thursoay's sessions of the imerican Institute
of Biological Sciences, meeting through Friday at MSU. Some 3,000 scientists

and observers are attending the A135 meetings this week,

###

 




press re}. r625: {3‘88 5 63 {LC

F01“ I‘efota «A, L, crterly Vol Iv No.2; 1360.195}: - filed isms Humane

 




lie (Kymre)

Oi' e

Congress is urged to enact law

requiring that animals. be made

unconscious before being killed
ay.‘ TOM WALLACE

N A COVERLESS, much-thumbed book of
quotations, which W. K. Stewart recom-
mended to me soon after he became a
resident of Louisville, “Forty Thousand
Quotations, Prose and Poetical,” compiled
by Charles Noel Douglas, published in
New York by George Sully and Company,
there is a quotation from Ruskin to which
I have returned innumerable times.

It is one of only five quotations. under
“animals”; five in 40,000. If that does not
prove, it at least suggests that when the
book was published (1904) not as much
attention as they deserved was paid to
animals by writers living, and that not
much attention had been paid to them by
’ writers‘not then living. The book is held
out by the publisher as reflecting “stand-
ard authors of ancient and modern times.”

The Ruskin quotation to which I refer
occurred to me in connection with a letter
from Christine Stevens,‘350~Fifth Avenue,
. New York, sent to me at the suggestion
of Miss Carolyn Verhoeff of Louisville,
whose work in behalf of humaneness to
animals has amounted to a distinguished
career. Miss Stevens’ letter is, in full—I

think it is worth the space I am giving
to it—as follows:

II E HUMANE SLAUGHTER bills introduced
by Senator Humphrey and Repre-
sentative Griffiths are being reintroduced
in the next session of Congress. Mean-
while, all of us who want to stop the terror
and suffering caused by present slaughter-
ing methods in this country need to ex:
press our opinion to legislators and gov-
ernment Officials, and to ask as many
other people to do so as we possibly can.
“The Department of Agriculture report-
ed unfavorably 011 the bills, stating that
it was in favor of the intent of the bills
but that it felt private enterprise should
. be left to do the job.

“Since 1893 Switzerland has had 'a law
requiring that animals be rendered un-
conscious prior to shackling and bleeding.
In the intervening years, eight other Euro-
mn countries have followed suit, and
three practical humane methods have

been fully developed. Additional techno- .

logical developments, such as the Hormel
method of anesthetizing hogs with 002-,
have been available to the packing induse

try for a considerable period of time.

(three years, in the case of Hormel), but
the vast majority of packers have stuck
stubbornly to the old, cruel methods. It
is impossible to accept the department’s
suggestion that we wait for voluntary

in.

compliance with humane principles by the
packing industry. We have already waited
for 62 years, and only a minute fraction
of the millions of animals slaughtered

annually in this country are receiving a'

merciful death.

“I hope that you will Write to Secre '

tary of Agriculture Benson urging that he
give his full support to S. R. 1636 and H. R.
6099, now being revised for the next ses-
sion of Congress.
that the Secretary, your Senators and your

Congressman realize how you feel about ‘

this urgently needed reform. Secretary
Benson’s address is: United States De-
partment of Agriculture, Washington 25,
D. C. Your Senators may be addressed at
the Senate Office Building, and your Con-
gressman at the House Office Building,
Washington, D. C. Letters to your local

newspaper editors, urging others to write '

in support of these bills, would also be
extremely valuable.

“If you would like to have literature to
distribute among your acquaintances

‘ about slaughter, humane and inhumane,

please let me know; I shall be glad to
send you as many as you request. Please

urge your friends to write to Washington

also.

IITHE BILLS AS THEY STAND provide for a
five year delay before they go into
effect. There is no need for so long a
period. When British legislation on the
subject was adopted, only a few months
elapsed between passage of the act and
its enforcement. If you feel, as I do, that
two years would be more than ample
time to allow for a changeover, please
indicate this in your letters too.
. “We can eliminate the hideous and
completely unnecessary pain and fear of
animals which could easily be rendered

It is most important .

Humane Slaughtering By Packing Houses

unconsCidus before they even realize that
death is near. All that is necessary is
that humane-minded people take the time
to make their opinions known. I feel sure
that you and your friends will do so, and
I wish to thank you in advance for this
essential help to animals.”

The Ruskin quotation to which I re-
ferred is as follows: “There is in every
animal’s eye a dim image and gleam of
humanity, a flash of strange light through
which their life looks out and up to our
great mystery of command over them,
and claims the fellowship of the creature
if not of the soul.”

Animals we know as individualsmani-
mals originally wild or domestic animals
——are responsive to humane \treatment.
They also react to harsh treatment. That
reaction is observable in the eyes of many
species of animals. It behooves civilized
man to avoid causing unnecessary suffer-
ing to animals wild and domestic.- ‘

1-11111' SWITZERLAND is in advance of the‘ _.
United States in legislation designed,

to obviate cruelty to animals slaughtered
for .,food reared to be slaughtered, should
make every United States citizen eager to
promote in his country the lawmaking
{vhidch has achieved its purpose in Switzer
an

The vegetarian holds that meat-eating
is more akin to cannibalism than meat

- eaters are willing to admit. But no argu-

ment against eating fish, flesh or fowl is
here presented.

Breeding and raising animals as food is
a large part of the routine of civilized
man. Savages of the lowest grade do not
similarly encouiage the fellowship of
animals, demand their obedience, provide
for them, before slaughtering them. The
primitive African bushman who spears a
waterbuck has not taught the animal to
rely on him. Moreover he does not subjeét.
the animal to fear or suffering before he
makes the kill He practices sedulously
the arts of the hunter to prevent if pessi4
ble his quarry’s knowledge or suspicion
that it will be molested. ’

Americanism, civilized, enlightened, ad-
vanced, should want to avoid following the
whips, yells and cuffings of drovers with '
avoidable inhumaneness in the slaughter ‘
house. g

Congress will pass a bill such as Switzer-
land passed in 1893 if enough meat- eaters
request that it do so. The Department of .
Ag11culture expressing agreement in. prine
ciple with advocates of humane legisla-
tion, but 1efusing to lend a hand is under ‘
timorous political captaincy. It is afraid
to take a position which would be right
It fears that by doing what is right it .-

might incur the displeasure of privatergg
enterprise which might, if favored con—
tribute to the campaign funds of Mr.

~ Benson’s party?

 




Recommendations Of The Animal Welfare Institute

PERSONNEL Many laboratories now employ untrained, underpaid men, classed as unskilled
workers, who have little interest in caring for animals. As a result, both animals and research
suffer. '

AW] Recommends: Sound training of animal technicians, selected for competence and a liking
for animals; adequate budget appropriations to insure fair salaries; a title commensurate with their
responsibilities.

9* 9K *6

HOUSING Overcrowding of animals is a major problem in modern laboratories. For example,
dogs and cats are often left for months or years with no provisions for regular exercise, in cages
only large enough to permit them to stand, lie and turn; rabbits are frequently confined to cages too
small to allow them to stretch out in their natural resting position.

AWI Recommends: Intelligent, thoughtful planning of housing, including a practical study of the
natural habits of the animals being used. The size of enclosure should take into consideration the
size of animals involved and the duration of confinement.

9* alt 9*

SANITATION AND DISEASE CONTROL Some laboratories, superficially clean, encourage
the spread of disease by failing to sterilize equipment passed from one group of animals to another
and by not isolating sick animals. Other laboratories are actually filthy. An attitude of "this is the best
we can do” will not stop the spread of disease.

AW] Recommends: An efﬁcient cleaning and sterilizing program by personnel who understand
how communicable diseases spread; adequate heat, light and ventilation; availability of veterinary ad-
vice for all animal colonies; an isolation period for newly received animals, as well as isolation,
treatment or destruction of sick animals.

9% 916 916

MENTAL WELL-BEIN G Many laboratory animals suffer severely from fear, loneliness and
anxiety. Studies in psychosomatic medicine indicate the importance of mental states.

AWI Recommends: Kind treatment of all animals, adequate space and companionship, and a
special effort to keep contented the animals being held for long periods of time.

9K 9K *-

PHYSICAL COMFORT Animals of all kinds frequently are deprived of a comfortable resting
place, are maintained on metal grids, without bedding or resting boards, and some are kept without
water for long periods.

AWI Recommends: The provision of simple comforts for all experimental animals.

9% 9K 9K

REDUCTION OF PAIN-INFLICTI ON Thou ghtlessness in the planning of experimentation and
teaching results in much unecessary suffering. For example, why should nine consecutive experiments
be performed by students in practice surgery on a single dog?

AWI Recommends: Careful planning of all experimental and teaching practices with a view to
eliminating unnecessary suffering and reducing the number of animals used; use of non-survival ex-
periments wherever possible; more extensive use of anesthesia and pain-relieving drugs.

9% 9E 9E

ALL LABORATORY ANIMALS ARE ENTITLED TO WATER, FOOD, REST, EXERCISE, COM-
PANIONSHIP, SANITATION AND KINDNESS.

The Animal Welfare Institute
350 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York

 




Public Should Demand Slaughterhouse Cruelty Ban

England, Holland, Denmark and

Switzerland have legislation

that requires humane methods
By TOM WALlACE

mo xx Tins spare recently that Seltzer-

land adopted humane slaughtering of
meat animals some years ago, and that
the [Suited Status should be ashamed 0!
home behin'l Switzerland.

l have a it‘ll?! from a representative
of the Animal Welfare institute who says:
“i have ﬁt“, returned from Europe where
I inspected humanely operated slaughter-
houses in England, Holland and Denmark.
Seeing the effectiveness of these installa-
tions, it is almost impossible for me to
understand why we have not yet adapted
humane methods in this country."

It. seems to me that any packer who
knows how animals may be slaughtered
humanely tt’ould have blood on his (on--
science etc: y day; would dream of Whhl"
sale nectilcss cruelty to animals, shout-l
he continue inhumane slaughtering. Ap«
parciitlt' that is not true. Apparently it
is necessary to awaken the public to its
responsihility and coerce the packers
through agencies of government. it so,
it is hi;:h time that the linited Statesm-
all of the 48 statesmwake up and take
measures. Or is there a suite that has
done so? it so I should like to be informed.

Before white. men took possession of
what now is the linited States sat'accs
hunted as wolves hunt. to still the pangs
of hunger. Some savages dried and sto; ed
a little meat. tlut no lndian made a l: isi»
ness of slaughtering animals. 'l‘hat enter»
prise u is reserved Mr Civilized man. lie
made a bloody mess of it. speaking liter-
ally and also using Brush slang.

WHEN you omen pork chops you order
part of a hog which was killed in
a compru'ativcly painless wav by a farmer,
or you get chops from a hog, which was
hoisted by means of a chain around one
hind foot and sent along a rail to a
sticker who Stabbed the squealing, fright~
ened, anguished animal.

Some hogs so treated. the Animal Wel-
fare Institute of New York informs me,
fall to‘ the floor, where bones are broken.

A hog not rightly stuck may go into the
scalding vat while still conscious.

I have seen many hogs killed by farm-
ers. l have noted that a hog which has
been tzttali-z' stuck ottcn will eat till it.
hecomm wahbly on its. logs from loss of
blood. lot i have seen no torture of hogs
on farms They are caught. turned on
their hacks and quickly stuck.

i believe some farmers shoot hoes be.
fore sticking them. but I have ucicr Wllx
Lazar-l that method 0t killing them on
a farm. Packers know how, it is ("OmI'lOl‘lly
said, to get money from everything in
the hog except his squeal. "Why does not
the squeal haunt them when they know
how the animals are killed cruelly in
their slaughterhouses’! Are packers dif.
tenant in fiber tram other men?

ONLY m CLUB of legislation. swung
vigorously, has, it seems, ended cruel-
ty in European slaughterhouses. European
populations which have forced packers
to be humane deserve commendation of
civilized men.

"there are several recognized successful
methods of killing animals painlessly. The
captive bolt pistol. the electric stunning
tongs, are used. but at present anesthetics
seem best. Only the skilled operator may
be relied upon to use electric tongs
humanely

When I referred to Switzerland's law
agihst inhumane slaughter I did not;
l-Lllt'lw :hat in the limited States painless
slaughtering was pi .icticed in other Euro-
pean countries.

l am indebted to the Animal Welfare
institute, 550 Fifth Avenue. New York,
N. Y, for amplification of my information.

The linited States Department of Agri-
culture should take a position as an op-
ponent of inhumane slaughter. Under the
captaincy of that bureau a bill requiring
advancement of methods of United States
packers could be. surely, put through the
two houses of Congress as to meat in
interstate commerce. Without such lead-
ership, a suitable bill will be passed when
enough citizens of the United States de-
mand it. How. in the meantime. can. any
really civilized person enjoy eating meat
unless he or she has asked Congress to
enact such legislation?

People are quickly. hotly, resentful of
cruelty to dogs. cats or other animals
kept as leis. Many of them, when their

attention is invited. declare opposition to
cruelty to wild animals. Why should the
same people be without interest in whole-
sale cruelty to meat animals; cruelty that.
is practiced callously by enterpriaers who
know that humane slaughter is possible
and practical.

it would not have taken opponents of
steel traps long to outlaw the steel trap
if manufacturers of traps had not ﬁlled
to present a practical substitute.

Inasmuch as there are several known
practical substitutes for cruel means of
killing meat. animals, oldetyle cruelty
should not be tolerated popularly.

The Animal Welfare Institute has un—
dertaken to awaken opposition. Its task
will not be easy or brief, but when a
federal law or the first state law shall
have been passed it may not take long,
or be difficult, to bring all states in line.
Local. pride could be relied upon as an
influence upon state lawmakers. ‘

 




PLEASE ROUTE T0:

SOAP AND GLYCERINE EXECUTIVES

Issued by Association of American Soap & Glycerine Producers, Inc. . 295 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.

Vol. IX, No. 2 . January 23, 1956

 




From the Winter, 1955 Bulletin (Vol. VI. No. 8) of the
Canadian Association for Humane Trapping
28 Summerhill Gardens, Toronto 7, Ontario

DEVELOPMENT OF THE ZIP TRAP

This trap was invented by a Finn in Northern Ontario and was on ex-
hibition at our Annual meeting. An ex-trapper who was at the meeting was
most impressed with the trap and expressed a wish to try to get it into
production. He took a sample or two and made extensive trips through the
Ontario trapping districts showing this trap to trappers at their annual
conventions. There was much enthusiasm for the trap, and, to make a long
story short, some capital was obtained through the efforts of your Board,
and production was begun. Many snags were encountered, but the Company,
TheCanadian Humane Trap Co., finally came into being, and the traps are
now being manufactured and shipped. This trap can be made in a size large
enough for beaver and otter, so we are hoping that it will take the place
of the line that we have had to discontinue.

The Association is not involved in any way in this venture. A small
sum has been spent on advertising this trap and in mailing circulars about
it to the trappers. We have also undertaken to continue these ads. and to
help in packing and mailing the smaller orders for the traps. We are re-
ferring all requests for large traps to the Company also.

If this trap turns out to be as good as we think it is, a large amount
of the work of the Association will be done. The trap was tested on mink on
a mink ranch. Usually these animals are killed by cyanide gas, but on this
occasion they were driven into these traps. The results were most encourag-
ing, the animals being killed instantly in almost every case, and those
which were not died in a few minutes. This is a wonderful improvement over
the days and even weeks that these animals sometimes survive in the leg hold
type of trap.

The Zip Trap was demonstrated at the meeting of the Ontario Trappers‘
Association at Burk's Falls in October. There were reports and pictures in
several papers, including the Toronto "Globe & Mail" and the North Bay
"Nugget." One picture showed Mr. William Dennis, a trapper from South River,
holding the trap. This publicity is of great benefit in interesting the
public in humane traps.

The Trap was also demonstrated at meetings at Wilberforce, Minden,
Huntsville, Loring, Clinton, Stratford, Arnprior, Brockville and Carlton
Place. A good deal of interest in more humane methods was eXpressed by
trappers themselves.

\ * * *

Reprinted by the Animal Welfare Institute,
350 Fifth.Avenue, New York 1, New York

 




THE NATIONAL HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
(Incorporated)
Boston House, 1711 Massachusetts Ave.,
Washington 6, D. C.

ADams 253358

It is prOposed that humane education and the prevention of cruelty to animals
should be given official recognition by the United Nations so that this import-
ant work can be effectively encouraged internationally.

You are invited to bring the attached Petition to the attention of your Society
and to add its name to the list of those requesting the assistance of the United
Nations in the development of humaneness.

At the UNESCO Conference which Opens Nov. 12 in Montevideo we hope to have
introduced in the general debate the proposal to include Humane Education in the
World Program of Education.

By signing the attached or a similar Petition your Society can help to encourage
the greatly needed work for the protection of Animals throughout the world. Or
if you, as an individual, will appeal to the National Delegation of your country
assigned to the UNESCO Conference, it will also be helpful.

Time is very short. The Petition when signed should be detached and sent with
all Speed addressed to

The Delegation of (your country)

Care UNESCO Conference,

-Montevideo, Uruguay

PETITION FOR THE INCLUSION OF HUMANE EDUCATION AND THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMAIS
IN THE WORK OF THE UNITED NATIONS

Whereas we believe that Humane Education and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
should be given official recognition by the United Nations

and Whereas we believe that this important work can best be forwarded by UNESCO,

Now therefore we do respectfully request that this matter be brought to the atten—
tion of UNESCO for consideration by the Delegates at its meeting in Montevideo,
November 12, l95h.

Signed

 

 

 




Humane education should receive the serious attention of the United Nations
for three major reasons.

1) Peace. The spirit of consideration and sympathy for other living beings
whether they be human or animal, of "Reverence for Life” as Dr. Albert Schweitzer,
winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, has phrased it, is the basic human attitude
necessary for the establishment of a genuinely peaceful relationship among human
beings and nations throughout the world. This is the spirit which motivates and
guides humane education.

2) Sound Economy} Man is dependent to a large extent upon animals. The
important economic gains to be obtained through the kind and intelligent care of
domestic animals have been repeatedly demonstrated. However, these economic
benefits are often ignored for lack of sufficient knowledge, and cruelty and waste
result. Humane education combines the dissemination of sound principles of animal
husbandry with the encouragement of individual sympathy of all animal owners and
caretakers for the animals in their charge. Likewise, in the important effort to
conserve the world’s natural resources, including its wildlife, humane education
combines the strictly practical with the ethical. Because they serve human interests.
the animals which human beings use or kill are entitled to the most humane treat»
ment possible in every instance. In a field such as the tranSportation and
slaughter of livestock, prevention of the bruising which results from beating,
kicking, rushing, cr wding, and other forms of cruel or careless treatment would
mean the saving of hundreds of millions of pounds of meat every year.

 

3) Advancement of Civilization. Educators consider the humane education of
children to be a most effective waywto build and develop good character, to
encourage thoughtfulness and consideration for others and to create a sense of
responsibility especially toward the helpless. Humane education is in harmony
with all the great religions. It embraces a wide variety of subject matter and
teaching methods ranging from the most elementary teaching of kindness to little
children to a scholarly study of ethics. It owes its existence to Societies for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and Animals, which sought a two—fold purpose
in encouraging it: to promote the welfare of children and animals; to advance
civilization through the refinement of human character. Dr. Albert Schweitzer
expresses most clearly the potential advancement of civilization in the following
words.

 

Dr. Schweitzer points out that a man is ethical ”when he devotes himself helpfully
to all life that is in need of help. Only the universal ethic of the feeling of
responsibility in an ever-widening sphere for all that lives - only that ethic

can be founded in thought. The ethic of the relation of man to man is not some-
thing apart by itself. It is only a particular relation which results from the
universal one. The ethic of heverence for Life, therefore, comprehends within
itself everything that can be described as love, devotion, and sympathy, whether
in suffering, joy or effort. ..........A deepened, ethical will to progress which
springs from thought will lead us back, then, out of uncivilization and its misery
to true civilization. Sooner or later there must dawn the true and final
Renaissance which will bring peace to the world."

 




A Statement for the Public Hearing of the Subcommittee on Health and Science of
the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce on April 11, 1956, to recommend
amendment of S. 8&9 to include provision for humane and scientific housing and
care of experimental animals used in medical research institutions receiving
federal funds in accordance with S. 8&9.

 

The proper housing and care of experimental animals is of great
importance in the conduct of first-rate medical research involving such
animals; however, the animal quarters of many of the scientific institutions
which I have visited do not make adequate provision for the health and
well-being of the occupants. In the same city or even in different departments
of the same institution, the visitor may find excellently designed and
maintained animal quarters on the one hand, and on the other, cramped,
dirty, dark, ill-smelling quarters where communicable diseases among the animals
frequently interferes with the scientific Observations being made.

Close confinement of the larger species of experimental animals such
as dogs and monkeys has been the subject of scientific investigation, and the
abnormal physiological effects resulting from such confinement recorded
(shrinkage of the adrenal cortex in the monkey; metabolic changes in the dogs).
Yet some laboratories confine these animals to small, metal cages from which
they are never even released for exercise.

The very well-designed quarters for dogs, monkeys and other large
animals on long-term studies in the big animal breeding and hospital section
of the National Institutes of Health could very well serve as a model for all
institutions receiving Federal grants for building. Exercise runways are
attached to all kennels and enclosures for large animals.

There is a widespread belief that whenever adequate funds are avail-
able for a research building it follows almost automatically that the animal
quarters will be well-designed and comfortable. Unfortunately, experience shows
that many millions of dollars have recently been spent for the construction
of medical research buildings whose animal quarters are entirely inadequate both
from the humane and the scientific viewpoint. It is not uncommon to see very
substantial waste of space and construction material immediately.adjacent
to quarters in which each animal has only enough room to turn around.

Visitors to the type of windowless room where a hundred or more dogs
are kept in small cages without exercise facilities and with nothing to rest
on but the metal grid floor of the cage are met with.an almost deafening noise
of barking and of shaking of the cages. Not only does this constitute bad
animal husbandry which cannot fail to have a deleterious affect on the research,
but it is very wrong to inflict this wholly unnecessary suffering on animals.
In many cases the experiment in which the animal is used is painful and dis-
tressing. It is inexcusable to add to his sufferings by depriving him of such
basic needs as a place to stretch his legs and a comfortable place to sleep.
Yet thousands of laboratory dogs, cats and monkeys throughout the nation are
being so deprived. In far too many large laboratories the minimum needs of
many different species of animals which they house are not being met.

 




I respectfully recommend to the Subcommittee on Health and Science of
the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce that S. 849 be amended to
bring an end to this unnecessary suffering by requiring that the grant of
funds for construction of medical research facilities in which animals are
used be limited to institutions which already provide or which will provide
as part of the new construction, humane and scientific housing and care of
all animals used, including runways for all large animals and adequate space
cleanliness, ventilation, light and comfortable resting places for all animals;
I should be glad to provide additional detailed data on laboratory animal
housing to members of the Subcommittee on request.

Respectfully submitted,
Christine Stevens

270 Park.Avenue
New York 17, New York

 




