Phone: Victoria 2412

EUR Royal ﬁnct’ety for the
”rotation of 1mm

FOUNDEI) 188‘)
Incorporated under Royal Charter, 1904

Patron
HIS MAJES'I‘Y THE KING
President
HER GRACE THE DUOHESS 0F PORTLAND
HUI]. 'I‘rc’asurt’r
THE RT. HON. THE EARL OE CLARENDON, K.G., (1‘.C.M.G.
Chairman of COIN/(1'1
SIR MONTAOU SHARPE, K.C.
Editor of Publications
Miss L. GARDINER
SOIiCi/OI’S
Messrs. \VOOIHHx’IDGE & SONS
Audi/0m
Messrs. PRIOEAI'X, FRERE. BROWN & CO.,
C/iiII'I‘c’I‘i‘a’ Accouuianls
Si‘cri‘tarv
R. PRESTON DONALDSON, M.B.O.U.
Bankers
WESTMINSTER BANK LIMITED (Caxton House Branch)

82, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.l

 




#’ H“-_V——” ‘i’

N

'H'O’H‘K "1333 an‘ug“ ’g '1‘
'n'O'ﬂ'N “hsg ‘M:»I.L\~"ms "1 '1“

'SI'D 'suelvnmu ’I\' AMNGIH us
"1'0'21‘12 "bsgl ‘xmxva ’I’IV'IN
.‘DO'I'IOd "1 ssgm

'bsg “xvmmx 'lmstg

"I'D'H “bsg ‘XUSNGIHdDV’w GLL’IOH 'V
“.l'o'u'n' “:q'sl'n "st31 ‘2L\\0'1 '31 'd
‘J'n'u‘lx‘ "(I'DR‘I'cI "(I'I\‘ “st3 1mm 'IQIVHOIIQIVQ '5‘)
any}! It "(1'1\' "13931 'JIJIV.LSE).\'(YI '9 '1
'X'H ‘S:»1X0[ 'H 'H ugmduQ-uoaﬁmg
‘S'N'd "My “KC'I'IXJH vi'mf

'GI'SI'D "[3931 ‘XVIUUHV’H '(1 '[

urn-211$ "(“I'Ix' "bsn ‘HSSOQ (Il'llHd
HGLVHIMVE) vaNI'I ssgw

’.1'0'H'I\' '.\[:»I.Ls:»1>[o_,1 (p101 ‘uoH mﬁgg 911_L[atu)103-‘1nay1
$01131 \‘31HM'IV MIV’I SILL

b<f.] ‘31.L.LGINH’I’I()Q "I '3

21'0's1'1x: ‘15318 '8 '9 AHVW SS[I\‘[

'(I‘Os‘ 'H'H'K "bsg ‘xx‘mmxxvq 'V '(1
-h.<31 ‘(momv ‘3] SH’IMVHQ

'n‘O'H'K "st31 ‘21:»u1xvx31'1v '9 'H

"I'(I "3“)1 ‘CrldblV'HS A1&)\~'.I..\:<)[\[ HIS—qtmuumlf)

3 "113N003

 




 

AIMS AND SCOPE

HE aim of the Royal Society for the

Protection of Birds is the rational
conservation of \Nild Birds, on scientific,
utilitarian, and zesthetic grounds.

The Society, believed to be the oldest,
national Bird Protection Society in the world,
was founded in 1889 to save ﬁnely-plumaged
birds from commercialism through fashion.
Its activities now embrace the preservation
and protection of all birds from senseless
destruction and abnormal dangers of every
kind. It was Incorporated by Royal Charter
in 1904.

The main departments of the work are :
Legislation (Parliamentary and local);
Watchers (safeguarding of rare species,
Sanctuaries, Lighthouse-rests, etc.) ; Oz'l
campaign (to save sea—birds); Education
(lectures, publications, School Essays);
“ Bird Notes 8‘ News ” (the Society’s organ).

The R.S.P.B. exchanges Publications with
allied Societies all over the world; is in
touch with leading ornithologists and bird-
protectors of the British Dominions and of
foreign countries; and has representatives
on numerous kindred associations in Great
Britain.

 




 

READ AND HEED!

 

 

 

 

BY STATUTE ALL BIRDS AND THEIR YOUNG
ARE PROTECTED DURING CLOSE TIME.

Information as to the Laws protecting \Vild
Birds may be obtained from the Local Poiice :
or from
The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds
82. Victoria Street, London, S.\\'. 1

 

 

 

 




LEGISLATION

IN 1880 the only protection for wild birds
was a ﬁve months’ close time. The Acts
of 1894 and 1896, promoted by the Society,
empower County Councils to protect species
throughout the year, to protect eggs, to
establish protected areas, and to conﬁscate,
on conviction, the bird-catcher’s parapher-
nalia. Under these Acts, Orders have been
obtained by every County in England and
\Vales and nearly every County in Scotland.
Other Acts resulting from the Society’s
efforts. prohibit use of the Pole-trap (1904), of
hooks and similar instruments for taking birds
(1908), of trap-shooting (1921), the importa-
tion of the plumage of all wild birds (1921),
and the sale of British Wild Birds (1933).

Further 316155 in Legislation are constantly
considered by the Council, whose ﬁxed aim
is to lead and educate public opinion in a
demand for needed amendments.

Its experience and advice are at the service
of Councils and other local bodies in framing
aznendments to Orders, forming sanctuaries,
.and enforcing the law.

5

 




 

SA VE THE SE ABIRDS

 

 

ate JW

Printed in English, French, German,
Italian, Japanese. Spanish and Esper-
anto, this Stamp is carrying its message
throughout the world. The illustration
in colour is from a painting by Mr.
Roland Green.

The R.S.P.B. appeals to its supporters
to use these Stamps on their corre—
spondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




OIL CAMPAIGN

HE first appearance on the English

coast of patches of floating oil, discharged
by oil-driven and oil-carrying vessels, an-
nounced a new peril to Sea-birds, caught
and held in the tarry scum. No great
foresight was needed to realise the growing
extent and gravity of the evil. Evidence
from Watchers and other correspondents all
round the coast supported the Oil in Navi-
gable \Vaters Bill, which, when passed
in 1922, forbade all discharge of waste
oil in Coastal Waters. It cannot prevent
drift from without by wind and tide. The
Society pressed for International action,
but the International Conference of 1926
ended in failure through lack of support from
foreign nations. The matter has since been
referred by the British Government to the
League of Nations, and the League has
obtained reports and opinions from constitu-
ent Governments with a view to a further
Conference. The R.S.P.B. continues to urge
upon the Maritime Powers of the world
the provision of Oil-Separators on all oil—
burning and oil-carrying vessels, and of
adequate facilities for cleansing tanks and
bilges in harbours.

 

 




 

 

 

 

St. Catherine’s Lighthouse, I.W., showing Bird’Rests
erected in 1913

 

 

 




LIGHTHOUSES

N former days our Lighthouses were a.

death-lure for migrating birds, and hun-
dreds and thousands of insect-eating birds,
wardens and musicians of the ﬁelds, were-
picked up in a morning round the lanterns,
while hundreds of others had fallen, dazed.
and exhausted, into the sea. The ﬁrst
Lighthouse ﬁtted with perches for birds by
the R.S.P.B. was St. Catherine’s, off the Isle
of Wight (its only predecessor being that of
Terschelling in Holland). The effort was.
made possible by the permission and co-
operation of Trinity House, and the rests are
put up for both Spring and Autumn migra--
tions. On misty nights the perches are often
crowded with 'i lost ” birds taking rest.

Six Lighthouses on main migration routes
have been ﬁtted, namely : St. Catherine’s,
Isle of Wight, 1913 ; The Caskets, Channel.
Islands, 1913 ; South Bishop, Pembrokeshire,
191—l; Spurn Point, Yorkshire, 1914 ; Bardsey
Island, Cardigan, 1926 ; the Skerries, Angle—
sey, 1928.

 




 

 

WATCHER IN UNIFORM

 

Whole/time Authorised Watcher on Dungeness

 

 

 




WATCHERS

“ HE admirable work of the Royal Society

for the Protection of Birds in appointing
paid Watchers to guard the nesting-places of
the rarest species, deserves a wide extension
of support,” commented The Tin/(es (March
2nd, 1908), when the scheme was yet young.
Interesting and valuable results have accrued
in many parts of the British Isles, including
the preservation of more than one species
marked down by the egg—collector. Over 50
Watchers, of proved integrity and devotion
to their work, are under the Watchers’ Com-
mittee, from the northernmost point of the
Shetlands to Brean Down in the south-west
and Dungeness in the south-east, and from
western Pembrokeshire to East Anglia.

Sanctuaries in Kent comprise Cheyne Court,
purchased in 1930, Walker’s Outland in
1931, the Open or HOppen Pits, and Denge-
marsh in 1937. These are situated in the
Romney and Walland Marsh.

Sanctuaries in Cheshire, Cumberland,
Durham, Somerset, Sussex, Anglesey and Fife
are also under the Society’s administration,
while the North \Yarren in Suffolk was
purchased in 1939.

 

 




 

 

ROMNEY MARSH SANCTUARY

Mr. R. BURGESS, Authorised Watcher

Provision of sanctuary for Wild Fowl, Waders, and other Winter bird visitors. is demanded in

the cause of fair play. and is essential for the preservation 0f game and rare species.
no more ideal spot for the purpose could be found in southern England.

Probably

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

FOOD OF THE GREAT TIT
_

Injurious Insects 06.5 per cent.

 

I ||||l|IllIHHIHIIHIHHIIHIH

Neutral Insects,5.5: Spiders. 1.0; \\'ild Fruits
and Seeds and Miscellaneous Matter. 17.0 23.5 per cent

Fruit Pulp, 3.0 : Buds.1.5 : “"heat‘ 1.5 : Beneﬁcial
Insects, 4.0 10.0 per cent.
I Beneﬁts Man E Neutral I Harmful
The above percentages are based mainly on the results of scientiﬁc
investigations made by Dr. \V, E. Colling’e and published in his book
uThe Food of Some British \\'ild Birds.”

 

 

 

 

14

 




 

ECONOMIC ORNITHOLOGY

PART from general propaganda by

means of leaﬂets, pamphlets, booklets,
posters and lectures, the R.S.P.B, has the
assistance of an Economic Advisory Com-
mittee, consisting of practical and scientiﬁc
experts, in dealing with the economic status
of Wild Birds. The Chairman of the Com-
mittee is Mr. W. P. Pycraft (British Museum,
Natural History), and the co-opted members
are : C. F. Archibald. Esq., \Nilliam Berry,
Esq., LL.B., M.B.O.U., G. B. Blaker, Esq.,
Frank Bonnett, Esq., W. E. Collinge,
Esq., D.Sc., M.B.O.U., Colonel Sir George
Courthope, Bart, M.C., M.P., Sir Herbert
Matthews, V. C. Wynne-Edwards, Esq.

A series of illustrated Charts is being
published, showing percentages of the
various foods taken by some of the
commoner species.

 




 

 

 

 

THE BARN OWL

The Essay on ”Barn Owl and Buzzard," by

Mr. G. B. Blaker (Eton College), which won the

Silver Medal in 1931, gave rise to the Society’s
Barn Owl Census. 1932/33.

 

 

 

 




EDUCATION
LECTURES

A considerable number of Lectures are
every year given in connection with the
Society, and help of this kind is welcomed.
A large collection of Lantern Slides is.
available, as are also typed Lectures.

THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

The Society annually awards Silver and
Bronze Medals, with Works on Natural
History, for Essays from the Public Schools
on subjects connected with Bird Life. Dis-
tinguished ornithologists act as judges. The
Society thus gets into touch with the class
which furnishes the majority of our land-
owners, professional men, and scientiﬁc
students.

The Schools furnishing prize-wii'iners
have included: Eton, Winchester, Harrow,
Rugby, Marlborough, Repton, Uppingham,
Haileybury, Westminster, Wellington,
Charterhouse, Merchant Taylors, Rossall,
Glenalmond, Bradtield, Christ’s Hospital,
Canterbury, Gresham’s, Edinburgh Academy.

I7

 




 

 

BIRD AND TREE DAY

 

BIRD AND TREE INTER~COUNTY SHIELD

Instituted in 1907

 




 

Education—continued.

BIRD AND TREE SCHEME

The Society’s Bird and Tree Scheme, an
adaptation and development of Bird Days
and Arbor Days in the USA. and
some of our Colonies, was introduced in
English Elementary Schools in 1902. The
special aim is to cultivate original outdoor
observation among children ; to awaken in-
terest and sympathy, based on first-hand
knowledge; and thus to make of country
boys and girls an army of intelligent Bird
Prolc’clors. County Challenge Shields are
awarded in Counties where interest is sufﬁ-
ciently widespread to justify this; and an
Open Class invites entries from Schools in
any part of the Kingdom. Medals, certiﬁcates,
and book prizes are given in all classes.

The Scheme has the approval of the Board
of Education, local Education Authorities,
H.M. Inspectors of Schools, and Teachers
in every part of the country.

 




 

WANTED

More Fellows and Members; more active
sympathy and support.

More intelligent comprehension of the mean-
ing and aims of Bird Protection, and of
the need for it.

More widely diffused knowledge of existing
Legislation and County Orders.

More uniform and efﬁcient protection for
rare species ; more stringent laws deal-
ing with possession of Birds and Eggs.

More aid and co-operation from Land-
owners, Farmers and Magistrates in
enforcing the law.

More Oil-Separators on ships to save Sea—
birds.

More Sanctuaries for \Nild Birds; more
Watchers.

More explicit teaching in Schools, public
and private ; more Bird and Tree Com-
petitions.

More Lectures to Societies, Associations,
Women‘s Institutes, Boy Scouts.

More Readers of Bird Notes and News, so
that the Society and its objects and
work may be known and promoted
throughout the country.

20

 




FOUNDEI) 1903.

BIRD NOTES AND NEWS

Published Quarter/y ; 4s. per (Ill/111111, postfl'ci’.
payable in advance.

Grails 1‘0 Fella-tens and Members.

 

kg?

BIRD NOTES & NEWS contains articles

and notes 011 subjects of interest;
records the progress of the Movement in
this and other countries, in Parliament,
and in Education (especially with reference
to the Bird and Tree Scheme); publishes
statements and opinions on the economic
value of Birds, Reviews of Books, typical
cases of convictions in the Courts, Reports
of Meetings and doings of the Society, etc.

Frontispiece and text illustrations.

All communications to be addressed to
the Editor, Bird Notes and News, 82,
Victoria Street, London, SW. .1.

21

 




 

MEMBERSHIP

NY person interested in promoting the objects
of the Society may be enrolled as follows 2——

Life Fellow — £21.

Life Member - £5 5s.

Life Associate - £1 1s.

Fellow - - From £1 1s. annually.
Member — - From 55. annually.
Associate — — From 1s. annually.

Schools, Clubs, and Associations may, with the
sanction of the Council, be afﬁliated to the Society
on agreeing to pay a yearly subscription.

Each subscriber receives a copy of the Society’s

Annual Report. Fellows and Members are also
entitled to Bird Notes 8’ News and other publications.

All Subscriptions are due on January 1st of each
year, and payable before the 3lst of July following.

OBJECTS

To encourage the better preservation of \Vild
Birds, more particularly of rare and useful species, by
developing public interest in their utility in the
economy of Nature as well as in their beauty of
plumage and note. To discourage the wanton
destruction of birds and the wearing of feathers of
any species not killed for the purposes of food, other
than the ostrich.

22

 

 

 

 

 




J M. & CO. Ltd. 23/1/40

 




