.3

THE MORALITY

SPORTS,

FREEMAN.

~‘Vtep—H-nucnhh—w-‘—-v

Reprinted by permission from Hm “Fort/nightly Review,” of 0015., 1859,
by the. szln'z'clga ”70215 Societg/far the Prevention. 0f
Cruelty to Aarzrz'mals.

i

BIRMINGHAM: M. MAKE} AND, SON, HIGH STREET‘

 




 

 




 

 

THE MORALITY OF FIELD SPORTS.

NOT very long ago a street boy in a country town was charged
before the local, magistrates with cruelty to animals in setting two
dogs to worry a cat. The offence was proved ; a ﬁne was inflicted
and paid ; but the boy’s father added the comment that he thougl‘it
it hard that his son should be ﬁned for setting dogs on a cat, while
gentlemen set dogs on hares and were not ﬁned. rl‘he bench, on
such an occasion, has the great advantage of being able to keep
silence itself and, if need be, to command silence in others ; and, as
I heard the story, it did not appear that any attempt was made to
answer the question. Neither the boy nor his father was likely to
have read the Memoirs of Windham, but, if they had, they would
have found their question forestalled. Windham, a patron of every-
thing that called itself “ sport ”-——“ sport ” of course commonly
meaning the death or torture of some creature—said, manfully and
consistently, “ No one who condemns bull-baiting can consistently
defend fox-hunting.” I do not know whether in his day the ques-
tion of fox-hunting had been seriously raised; the battle which
Windham had to ﬁght was on behalf of bull-baiting. In that noble
and manly and English Sport, as its votaries then called it, VVind-
ham, a scholar, a statesman, a man of reﬁned taste, and, on many
points, of almost morbid conscienciousness, professed that he
“ rejoiced.” And he at least had the ﬁrm standing-ground of
thorough consistency. His proposition is essentially true. It will
hear turning about and testing in every way. He drew from it one
practical inference ; I draw from it another. From the admitted
right to torture the fox Windham inferred the right to torture the
bull. From the admitted sin of torturing the bull I infer the sin
of torturing the fox. But VVindham’s saying supplies a common
point from which we may start in opposite directions. He at least
went to the root af the matter; he saw how the case really stood,
and neither deceived himself nor tried to deceive others by ir-
relevant and sophistieal distinctions.

I am not going, though I feel strongly on the subject, to preach
a sermon on cruelty to animals—a subject, by the way, which those
whose business it is to preach sermons might with advantage deal
with oftener than they do. Nor am I going to put forth any ex-
treme views on the subject or on the other subjects which, in an
historical and philos0phical View, cannot be separated from ,it,_, “If .
I cannot enrol myself alongside of the Earl of‘Winchelsea in look-
ing on common humanity as “loathsome sensibility,” neither can

 




 

 

 

4

I enrol myself alongside of the Marquess Townshend in deeming
it unlawful, under any circumstances whatever, to cause pain or
inconvenience to any animal. I am neither a vegetarian nor .an
opponent of capital punishment. I have no scruple as to taking
the life either of man or beast when real need calls for it. But I
do wish to expose certain popular fallacies and inconsistencies, and
to point out some historical and philosophical bearings of the
question which might not strike every one at ﬁrst sight. .

In examining, either historically or philosophically, the subject
of humanity and cruelty, it is impossible to separate the question
of humanity and cruelty to man from that of humanity and cruelty
to the lower animals. Between cruelty to man and cruelty to
beasts there is doubtless a wide difference, but it is purely a dif-
ference of degree. Humanity in either case, cruelty in either case,
is essentially the same feeling, arising from the same tendencies
in the mind. And allowing for the inconsistencies and false dis-
tinctions of which I shall presently speak, we shall ﬁnd on the
whole, both in individuals and in communities, that a tendency
towards humanity or towards cruelty in the one case commonly
accompanies a tendency towards humanity or towards cruelty in
the other case also.

What is the present state of civilized Opinion on the subject?
Setting aside extreme views either way, it seems to me to be some-
thing like this. Either man or beast may be rightly put to death
when need so calls for it, but neither in the inﬂiction of death nor
any other time should any pain he inﬂicted which real need does
not call for. The inﬂiction or” death should be in the speediest way
without any prolonged torture or mockery. Neither pain nor death
should be turned into matter of amusement. These rules seem
new, in our present state of society, to be universally accepted in
the ease of human beings. In the case of the lower animals they
are so largely accepted that I may fairly speak of the cases to
which they are held not to apply as exceptions—J should add as
inconsistencies. ‘

rI'he cases in which human life may lawfully be taken are gen-
erally understood to be—lst. In strict personal self-defence ; End.
In the lawful operations of a lawful war; 8rd. By sentence of law
for heinous and grievous offences. And this last case there is a
growing tendency in most civilized ‘ countries to conﬁne to the
single crime of murder. B at the ﬁrst and second cases are really
the same. No war can be just, no war can be lawful in any but a
purely technical sense, unless it he waged in strict self-defence on
the part of the nation waging it. And the word self-defence in a
wide sense, self-defence on the part of society, may perhaps take
in the third case also. I need not say that many estimable persons
condemn all war and all capital punishments. But such is not the
received creed of civilized society. Nor is it my own personal
creed either.

 




 

 

 

 

 

5

Now in all the cases in which it is held to be lawful to inflict
death on a human being, it is now generally understood that it
must be simple death, inﬂicted in a grave way and in a speedy
way. All needlessly painful or lingering forms of death, all accom-
panying or preliminary torture or mockery, is held to be forbidden.
Be the execution public or private, it is to be a warning to those
who look 011,—not an amusement. I11 war the enemy is to be cut
or shot down as long as resistance lasts, but slaughter is not ‘to
go on when resistance has ceased. Certain kinds of weapons too,
likely to inﬂict wounds of a specially painful or lingering kind,
are held to be forbidden in civilized warfare.

With regard to the lower animals the cases in which death may
be blamelessly inﬂicted are far more numerous. Self-defence is
taken in a much wider sense than in the case of war. We freely
kill beasts, birds, and other animals, not only when they threaten
our lives, but when they destroy or damage our property or in
any way interfere with our convenience. We also freely kill them
for food. We kill them also, some of us at least, for purposes of
science and study. And we sometimes kill them out of actual hu-
manity, as the phrase is, “to put them out of their misery.” In
the case of a man this is held to be unlawful; however great may
be the suffer-in gs of a sick or wounded man, however earnestly he
may desire death, it is held to be unlawful to put an end to his
suﬁ’erings. In the case of a suffering animal the same course is
held to be the truest mercy.

Now, as far as my private creed goes, I am prepared to accept
all these cases as lawful cases. Many of them may be abused, just
‘ as war and judicial sentences may be abused ; many animal lives
may be sacriﬁced under pretence of any of them, which a little
thought or trouble might spare. Killing for scientiﬁc objects is
especially liable to degenerate into killing and even torturing out
of mere wantonness. But I am not disposed to object to any
killing of animals which honestly comes under any of these heads.
And I may add that the lives of animals seem to me of very dif-
ferent degrees of value. Creatures with which we in a manner
contract personal friendships have a special claim on us to be
spared both needless death and needless pain in death. But more
than this, animals of a higher organization, animals whose life 18
more truly life, which have a higher capacity for pain and plea-
sure, seem to have a fair precedence over creatures of alowerkind.
,As the life of a man is more valuable than that of a horse or a dog,
so I hold the life of a horse or dog to be more valuable than that
of an insect or a mollusk. And as I should not scruple to ride a
horse to death if there were no other way to save human life or
relieve human suffering, so I should not scruple at a large sacri-
ﬁce of inferior animal life to secure the life or comfort of a dog or
a horse. ,

New further, it seems generally to be understood that, neither

 

 




 

 

 

6

in the inﬂiction of death on any animal, when {death .is needfnl,
nor at any other time, is any needless suffering to be inﬂicted on
such animal. With the exceptions to be presently spoken of, this
seems to be admitted. by public opinion and to be enforced by law.
Acting on this principle, the combined force of law and opinion.
has done, and is doing, much to lessen the sufferings of the ani-
mals which are killed for our food. By the same means many cruel
amusements which were once the delight of noble and royal per-
sons of both sexes are generally proscribed. Some are altogether
abolished ; others are condemned by society and are practiced only
by stealth. Bull-baiting, bear-baiting, badger-baiting, cock-fight-
ing, cock-throwing, dogﬁghting, all come under one or other of
these heads. Some ofthcse have ceased to be heard of at all ; others
may still linger on, but they are thought unﬁt for the presence ol"
gentlemen, still more so for that of ladies. Then comes the anom-
aly that other sports precisely the san e in principle, sports which,
on any moral theory, must stand or fall together with those which
I have just mentioned, are tolerated and honoured. To chase a
calf or a donkey either till it is torn in pieces or till it sinks from
weariness, would be scouted as a cruel act. Do the same to a deer
and it is a noble and royal sport. It is, as we have seen, a legal
crime to worry a cat. To worry a hare is a gallant diversion. And
men who share Windham’s tastes without Windbam’s consistency,
men who would lift up their hands in horror at the wanton tor-
ture of' a bull or a bear, deem no praises too high for the heroic
sport which consists in the wanton terture of a fox.

The causes of this inconsistency I shall presently deal with.
But before I come to that point I wish to give a short sketch of
the history of opinion and practice on these matters. In this I
must take cruelty to man and cruelty to animals together. As I
said before, the difference between them is one of degree, not of
principle. And historically the two cannot be separated. The re-
trospect is on the whole an encouraging one. There is something
still to be done, but, in our own country at least, it is much less
than what has already been done. And at no time has more been
done than in the last generation or two. The principle of humanity
is now generally admitted. All that is needed is to carry it out
consistently and unﬁinchingly. .

The truth is that humanity, real humanity, whether towards
man or towards beasts, is a very modern virtue. I mean that its
general recognition is modern, for a chain of individual witnesses
against cruelty of either kind can be found even in the darkest
times. In most ages of the world men’s feelings of humanity have
been conﬁned to some particular class, to men bound to them by
some special tie, to their own kinsfolk or friends, to men of their
own country or their own religion. In some times and places one
may .almost doubt whether the feeling of humanity, as dis-
tmgmshed from this sort of personal regard, was understood at

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

P‘
I

all. The utter recklessness of human life which has always dis-
tinguished the East, the cruel punishments which in all times
have been inﬂicted by Eastern rulers both on criminals and on
conquered enemies, seem to have exhausted every form of mock-
ery and lingering death. One instance will serve out of many; it
is enough to quote a case in which the torture inﬂicted on a pri»
soner of war were prolonged during a Whole year. Yet we may
doubt Whether the inﬂiction of human suﬂ’erin g as a mere matter
of amusement, as distinguished from the gratiﬁcation of revenge,
has ever been so prevalent in the East as it was forages in Rome.

1 am not prepared to give a history of' the treatment of animals in-

the East. I believe that tenderness to domestic animals is a virtue
of older standing in the East than it is in Ol'n'istian Europe. Still
tenderness to domestic animals is simply tenderness to one’s own
friends, and it is certain that public shows, involving a great deal
of animal suﬂ‘ering, have been and still are common amusements
of Eastern rulers. In Europe I stand on ﬁrmer ground. The man-
ners of old Greece, as compared with those either of Home or of
the East, may be called humane, though they certainly depart
widely from any ideal standard of humanity. The war-law was
harsh ; in many states the criminal law was harsh also ; the lives
of political opponents and of conquered enemies were often sacri~
ﬁced without mercy. But between lreek and Greek, death was
almost always simple death, and punishment seldom went beyond
those who were personally guilty or obnoxious. It stands out as
something almost without parallel when Greek victors once con-
demn ed an oriental enemy, whose cruelty and sacrilege had given
special offence, to a death oforiental cruelty. It strikes us as some-
thing equally strange when, i n a ﬁt of patriotic fury, the women of
Athens stoned to death the wife and children of a traitorous council-
lor. At Athens at least death by sentence otlaw was always inﬂicted
in the mildest form. Still Athenian humanity had its limit, and
it drew a distinction which sounds st “ange to our ears. It was
held to be not only just, but to be strictly conformable to demo-
cratic principles, to condemn the slave to tel-ture in the way of
judicial inquiry while the citizen. was of course exen'ipt. Among
Athenian public amusements we read of cock-fights and quail
ﬁghts ; but there is no sign of any special devotion to cruel sports,
and the great national festivals of Greece are honourably dise-
tinguished from those of Rome by the absence of everything of
the kind. No Olympic or Pyth‘ian festival was deﬁled by the
slaughter of gladiators, nor did Greek taste seek its pleasure
either in the wanton massacre of animals or in the fouler guilt of
exposing human beings to their rage. The combats of the cestus
might inﬂict incidental snﬂering, but suﬂ'ering was not their .es-
sence; an Olympic boxing match, like an Olympic wrestling
match, was in itself an honourable trial of skill between two
Greeks, very possibly high in birth and character. It might, and

 




 

 

 

 

 

8

sometimes did, take a baser form, but it had not in itself the
odious character of a combat of gladiators or of a modern prize
ﬁght. The chariot-race was, save in the honourable absence of
anything like gambling, like other races: a race may incidentally
involve cruelty ; the horses may be savagely lashed or they may
be taxed beyond their powers, but such cruelty is not involved in
the original idea of a race. On the whole there are but few ages
and countries where the public diversions have caused less of suf-
fering to man or beast than those of old Greece. The intellectual
lights of the world, if not absolutely free from the stain, at least
seem free when compared with their conquerors, in this case not
their imitators.

When we turn from Greece to Italy, we reach the darkest part
of our subject. Cruelty to man and beast may be fairly said to
have reached their height in the corrupt days of Rome. And it is
to be borne in mind that humanity did not grow, but rather fell
back, with the advance of luxury, of art, of knowledge, of all that
forms outward reﬁnement and material civilization. Cruelty ad~
vaneed along with luxury, and the choicest luxury of all was the
Spectacle of death and torture. Later legislation indeed abolished
the severe punishments of the Twelve Tables ; but this was not
the work of humanity, but of exclusive and selﬁsh pride. The
citizen, however great his crimes. could no longer be condemned
to be scourged to death more majorzmz, but the slave and the
stranger could still be exposed on the slightest grounds to the
lingering pain and mockery of crucifixion. And probably no other
people ever carried reckless cruelty to such a height in their public
diversions as the Romans of the later Republic and of the Empire.
The buteheries of a Roman holiday are a familiar subject, and in
our eyes they are clothed with a special and horrible interest from
having been the form in which so many of the early professors of
our religion won the crown of martyrdom, But it, is possible that
this last view of the matter does in some sort cloud over the real-
1ty. _It is perhaps the same in the case of the punishment of cru-
ciﬁxmn. The cross, and the death of the cross, have become in our
eyes sacred subjects. “70 unconsciously connect it in our minds
With one occasion, too solemn to be put side by side with any other.
We are thus liable to forget the horrible frequency and the horrible
recklessness with which this dreadful form of death was inﬂicted
on those who were not protected by the rights of citizenship. The
hght way in which such phrases as “pone crucem servo,” “non
pasces 1n cruce corvos.” abound in Latin literature, show how
calous men’s hearts had become. We hardly understand a state.of
things in which the eye might at any moment have lighted on the
Sight of a fellow-creature dying of lingering pain, hunger and
thirst, and when grave magistrates, sage philosophers, and delicate
women passed by such a sight with indiﬁ'erence as a matter of
every-day occurrence. So with the games of the circus. Cruelty

.. $.93

_ i lama-

 

 

 




 

9

undoubtedly reached its height in the case of the Christian martyrs.
That men and women of stainless lives, against whom no charge
could be brought but that of believing and worshipping according
to their own consciences, were not only condemned to death, not
only condemned to a lingering death, but condemned to a death
of the blackest mockery, a death which was a common insult to
the whole human race, and this as a spectacle, as an amusement,
as the source of the most exquisite pleasure to a gazing multitude,
is undoubtedly the blackest of all the wrongs which man has ever
done to his fellow-man. Our own burnings of heretics were bad
enough, but in England, at least—in France and Spain the case
was somewhat different—they were not matters of sport, but of
solemn warning : the heretic at least was not burned in the thea-
tre or the bear-garden as part of the public diversions. Still, we
must remember that Christians were thrown to the lions simply
because Roman tastes had already learned to delight in throwing
other men to the lions. And in all-these cases the progress of cru-
elty should carefully be studied. The shows of gladiators began in
a horrible superstition. Human victims were slaughtered at fu-
nerals in honour of the dead. Some lingering feeling of humanity
may, as in so many other cases of superstition, have softened
the ferocity of the original rite. The mere butchery was changed
into a ﬁght, in which some at least of the combatants might es-
cape with life. But a ﬁght soon became a spectacle, a source of in-
terest and excitement; the gladiatorial shows were transferred
from the funeral to the amphitheatre, and the slaughter of man
by his fellow-man became a source of pleasure only second to that
of seeing a man in the jaws of a devouring beast. So in the case
of beasts. The beginning of these cruel shows was no very great
matter. A few elephants taken in the ﬁrst Punic war were driven
round the circus and put to death. They were driven round the
circus to make the people familiar with the sight of the animal,
and to take away the almost superstitious fear which attached to
the “huge mirth-shaking beast.” They were put to death because
they were looked upon as useless, and because the prudent Senate
would not maintain either useless beasts or useless men. From
this beginning seems to have Sprung all those horrible forms of
amuse 1ent in which the pleasure consisted in the slaughter of
beast by its fellow beast, of beast by man, or of man by beast.
And it is worth noticing, that both the gladiatorial combats and
the combats of wild beasts were spoken of in exactly the same
language with which we are familiar in our own day. Then, as
now, “sport” meant the needless slaughter or torture of man or
beast. The work of slaughter was “ ludus ;” the criminal or mar-
tyr whose sufferings were to delight the Roman people was
“damnatus ad ludum ;” when Commodus or Caracalla sat to
destroy, in all safety, the animals which were driven before :him,
and when Ignatius was cast as an unresisting victim to the lion,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

10

the show was alike a “hunt,” a “venatio.” In exactly the same
spirit, in Queen Elizabeth’s days, the phrase was “ t0 bait the
game,” that is, the bull, bear, or ape, set aside for her Majesty’s
pleasure, exactly as in our own day “sport” still means slaughter,
and “game” still means its victims. So, too, the gladiatorial shows
were defended in language exactly the same as that which is used
by the votaries of modern hunting. They were noble and manly
sports, ﬁt for a nation of soldiers, sports which led men to despise
danger, wounds, and death. The points of difference between the
two forms of cruelty I shall presently speak of, but it is important
to bear in mind that the language in which the one was spoken
of and defended is exactly the same as that which we are accus~
tomed to hear applied to the other.

The horrors of the amphitheatre seem to have reached their
height under Constantine. The “Frankish games ” (ludi Francici)
with which he delighted his subjects at Trier are recorded and
applauded by his panegyrisrs in language, which, as M. Amedée
Thierry suggests, seems to imply some lurking doubts in the con-
science of the prince or of his ﬁatterer, doubts which, as men com-
monly do, he strove to drown by big words and bluster. The vic-
tims of Constantine’s “sport,” the “ game ” that was despatched
to celebrate his victories, were neither animals, rebels, nor slaves,
but foreign enemies taken in open war and consigned by thon-
sands to the jaws of the wild beasts. This stands out in marked
contrast to the treatment which conquered enemies had received
at the hands of Aurelian. It seems to show that the difference be-
tween the treatment of Vercingetorix and the treatment of Zenobia
was due, not to any improvement in public feeling, but to a per-
sonal magnanlmity on the part of an Illyrian peasant of which
the ﬁrst Caesar, the divine Julius, was incapable. But the same
prince who threw his captives to the lions abolished the punish-
ment of cruciﬁxion. This was no doubt less out of humanity than
out of a religious feeling. It was the same feeling which made
John FoXe implore Elizabeth that Arien and Anabaptist heretics
might not be put to the same form of death under which the true
martyrs had suffered in the days of her sister. The exact amount-
of inﬂuence which Christianity has had in abolishing exhibitions
of cruelty 1t is not easy to say. It has, I think, been. undervalued
by Mr: Lecky. We may perhaps best compare it with the inﬂuence
of Christianity on such points as slavery and polygamy. The New
Testament contains no direct precepts on any of these points, but
its. general spirit undoubtedly tends to the abolition of all these
ev1l customs. In the case of polygamy the spirit of the Gospel
was actually in harmony with both Roman and Teutonic Law;
the battle was against general licentiousness and the Roman prac-
tice of unlimited divorce. .Within the Empire therefore there was

hardly any struggle on this point, but among the poly gamous
nations beyond the Empire, Christianity presenting itself as a

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 




 

11

monogamous religion, has never made the same way which it did
within the lands subject to Roman Law. In the case of slavery
the spirit of the Gospel had to struggle against both Roman and
Teutonic’Law; the ﬁght has therefore been long and hard, and
the victory is not even now complete. But it is certain that in all
ages men have been found to protest against slavery on Christian
grounds, and its abolition in most Europeau countries has cer-
tainly been due to the indirect inﬂuence of Christianity. So it has
been with regard to cruelty towards man and beast. We must not
look for any direct inﬂuence of Christianity on the matter; we
must not look for ecclesiastical legislation or for any general eccle-
siastical denunciations on such points ; but we can ﬁnd a succession
of protests of the same nature as in the other case, and we may
surely set it down to the indirect inﬂuence of Christianity that we
are so far humanized as we are in both points. Christian teaching
set itself more directly against the gladiatorial games than against
the combats with wild beasts, because the former sinned more
directly against- the precept, “Thou shalt do no murder.” The
gladiatorial games therefore did not long survive the establish-
ment of Christianity, and in later days mere wanton murder does'
not seem to have formed the amusement of any Christian people.
There is much to be said against both the tournament and the
prize-ﬁght; in both death may easily result, but in neither is death
deliberately intended. There is therefore this mark of distinction
between either of them and the man-ﬁghts af ancient Rome. Ju-
dicial sentences, whether of death or of torture, have sometimes
been turned into spectacles of public gratiﬁcation. An English
execution has indeed always been designed as a matter of warning
not of sport. But Macauley tells us that in Charles the Second’s
reign English gentlemen made parties of pleasure to see women
whipped in prison. And it is certain that, both in France and in
Spain, the burning of heretics sometimes made part of the public
spectacles on occasions of public rejoiciugs. And it is no less cer-
tain that, not much more than a hundred years back, all Paris
ﬂocked to see, and I suppose, to enjoy the prolonged torture of
Damiens. Still, though assemblies of professing Christians have
taken pleasure in very cruel and horrible spectacles, I cannot re.
member any case of sheer and mere murder being made a public
amusement. The heretic or traitor was doomed. to death in any
case; the prize-ﬁghter, even when he ﬁghts With the sword, at
most jeopards his life. Both spectacles are bad enough, but in
neither case are men deliberately slaughtered for the mere pur-
pose of amusement, as was the case when the spectators turned
down their thumbs in the Roman amphitheatre. .
We may say then that the combats of gladiators, as coming
directly under the plain prohibition of murder, ‘were abolished
through the direct inﬂuence of Christianity, but that other cases
of cruelty towards man and beast alike were left to the 1nd1rect

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1‘2.

inﬂuence of the religion of mercy. In this, as in many other cases,
I believe that the indirect inﬂuence has been strongest where the
direct inﬂuence has been weakest. In the so-called Ages of Faith
we hear occasional protests against slavery, against cruelty to
man or beast. But we ﬁnd little or no systematic struggling
against either. The only point which was ever successfully in-
sisted on was the wickedness of enslaving fellow-Christians. But
it does not follow that the Ages of Faith did not do the work
even in these respects. It seems to me that an age of belief sowed
the good seed of which an age of unbelief, an age at least of less
fervent belief, reaps the fruits. It strikes me that the moral pre-
cepts and moral inﬂuences of Christianity needed the dogmatic
teaching and the systematic discipline of past times to gain for
them a hold in the world. The sower may sometimes have sowed
tares along with his wheat, but the wheat has survived the tares.
I believe that many a man who has little faith in Christian the-
ology is deeply inﬂuenced by Christian morality, and that he is
altogethera different man from what he would have been had
Christianity never been. Cur modern society is certainly very far
from an ideal state ; still we have got rid of certain vices, of cer-
tain forms of cruelty, which clave to the highest stage of heathen
civilization. These great blessings I believe that we owe to Chris-
tian inﬂuences, but to Christian inﬂuences which have been mainly
indirect. AndI do not ﬁnd any difﬁculty in so thinking in the
fact that the great movements on behalf of humanity, the move-
ment against slavery, the movement against reckless capital pun-
ishment, the movement against cruelty to animals, and other
righteous crusades ofthe same kind, have taken place in times
when the direct inﬂuence of the Church as an institution, and of
the creed of the Church as a dogmatic system, was certainly much
weaker than it had been in earlier times.

If any one were to write a history of cruelty in England whe-
ther towards men or towards animals, it would be hard to say
whether, till within the last two generations, we had advanced or
gone forwards. We have many awkward facts which might sug-
g’ﬁ‘b'b that in many ages we were growing worse instead of better.
The severity of our statute-book went on increasing almost to our
own day, till in the end the evil cured itself. Judicial torture,
hitherto unknown in England, was brought in as a novelty in the
ﬁfteenth century. So too in the political struggles of the eleventh
century blood was scarcely ever shed by sentence of law for
political offences, while we find a very different state of things in
the ﬁfteenth, the sixteenth, and the seventeenth century. We
hardly look on William the Conqueror as a specially merciful
man, yet it is certain that, in all his long reign in Normand and
England, he only once put a political enemy to death. Edward the
Fourth, Henry the Eighth, Elizabeth, Charles the Second, could
hardly say as much. But on the whole, I believe that, With some

.m-u ‘;_“v:l.-/;-c~

 




.A—,-__J}“Ur~ E. -‘.‘_" <: »'

 

13

fluctuations, manners at least, if not laws, gradually softened.
William was on principle sparing of human life, but he inﬂicted
the most horrible mutilations Without remorse. Our modern feel-
ings, there can be no dOubt, are more oifended at the idea of blind-
ing or otherwise mutilating a man than at that of putting him to
death Outright. And the return to the same kind of cruelty under
Charles the First seems to have offended men more than almost
any other of the evil deeds of those days. This shows the gradual
growth of at least a sentiment, if not a principle, of humanity.
With regard to animals I suspect it to have been the same. We
are apt to fancy that bull and bear-baiting was specially charac-
teristic of the reign of Elizabeth. I believe this is simply because
the doings and manners of Elizabeth’s reign are better known to
us than those of most other reigns, and because we are struck
with the incongruity of a woman, a queen, a maiden queen, taking
special delight in such sights. Bear-baiting and bull-baiting were
in common use ages earlier, and I know of no reason to think
they were more popular in the sixteenth century than they were
in earlier times. William Fitz-Stephen, in a well-known passage,
gets eloquent on the doings of the citizens of London in this way
in the days of Henry the Second, and the fact recorded in Domes-
day, that the borough of Norwich, in the reign of Edward the
(lonfessor, paid yearly, as part of the royal revenue. “a bear and
six dogs for the bear” (“sex canes ad m*smn”),may perhaps throw
some further light on the diversions of the saint who, when he
had heard mass, loved to hunt all day long. How little animal
suffering was regarded at a somewhat later time is shewn by a

story in Froissart ofa knight throwing an ass laden with wood ,

into the ﬁre, which was thought a very good joke. In the days of
the “blessed and innocent prince” Edward the Sixth, it was thought
a pleasant amusement at a wedding for gentleman to try in suc-
cession which could pull off the head ofa live goose hung on a
pole. Cock- throwing, a still baser form of cruelty than bear-
baiting, was not only habitually paactised, but obtained a curious
form ol'recogniton. In the statutes of many schools of the ﬁfteenth
and sixteenth centuries the founders make special regulations for
a sport which was so ordered as to combine proﬁt for the master
with amusement for his scholars. The sufferings of the helpless
cock never seem to have been thought of by the pious bisliOps and
muniﬁcent nolbemen who legislated to enforce rather than to for-
bid them. Still I think we may see that humanity was never
wholly left without witnesses. It was not so even at Rome. Seneca
and Plutarch protested against the cruelties of the amphitheatre;
Cicero half defended and half protested. The Roman people itself
had moments of mercy. In later times we read many stories of
saints practicing gentleness towards animals, and especially of the
sheltering the hunted beast from its pursuers. One of the most
beautiful of these stories, how Saint Anselm saved a hare from her

 




 

 

 

 

 

14

tormentors, I have quoted elsewhere, and I have of course met
with some mockery for so doing. I saw only the other daya med-
iaeval picture of “ The Folly of Hunting.” It was not the cruelty
that was attacked. but the waste of time,———a perfectly good argu-
ment as far as it goes, though not immediately to my purpose.
Still it is of importance as showing that there always have been
minds which could rise above mere conventionalities on these
matters. But I remember perfectly well, though I cannot at this
moment lay my hand upon it, a poem of the time of Henry the
Eighth in which bear-baiting was vigorously attacked. The poet
not only blames the spending on such objects of money which he
holds ought to be given to the poor, but he attacks the Sport it-
self; he pronounces, like Cicero, the “terrible tearings” of dog
and bear to be a “full ugly sight,” and winds up,-—-—
“ If you therefore give to see a ﬁght,
Be sure Godes curse upon you will light.”

In fact, I am by no means clear that one reason why we hear so
much about bull and bear-baiting in the sixteenth century may
not be because it was then just beginning to give way. The well-
known complaints of the bearwards in Elizabeth’s time that peo-
ple neglected their shows to see the plays of Shakespere and
other poets, is not to be forgotten. This was not likely to be the
effect of any conscious scruple about the cruelty of bear-baiting.
But it Was the unconscious working of the same feeling; it was
the preference of an intellectual to a brutal amusement; it was
the feeling of Cicero : “ Qum potest homini esse polite delectatio ?”
So under King James we ﬁnd a new form of cruelty introduced ;
the British Solomon seems to have been the ﬁrst, perhaps the
only, prince who caused the lions in the Tower to be baited. Yet
a. certain inkling of improved feeling appears in his own “Book of
Sports,” which, while allowing certain “lawful sports ” on Sun-
days, expressly forbids all exhibit—ions of cruelty. In the sixteenth
century Sunday was the special day for bear-daiting, and Queen
Elizabeth once went—whether on a Sunday or not I forget—to
hear a sermon, accompanied by two white bears in a cart, to be
baited when the preacher had done. The next generation, though
it did not forswear bear-baiting, yet somehow felt that cruelty and
piety were hardly consistent, and proclaimed a kind of Truce of
God on behalf of the bears. We see the same kind of feeling in a
number of medieeval stories which, without directly condemning
hunting, speak with great horror of hunting on Sundays or at
other holy seasons. This is a feeling which we must not misunder-
stand through our modern British notion of forbidding all amuse-
ments on Sundays. Amusement, as amusement, on Sundays was
not objected to; but men instinctively felt that the torture and
death, whether of a bear or of a stag, was not a ﬁt amusement for
a day of special holiness. Next came the great Puritan attack on
bear-baiting, on which Lord Macauley had something to say. I

 

 

 




 

 

1 5"

do not profess to say how far humanity had anything to do with
this movement; but I can hardly think that the question is dis-
posed of in Lord Macauley’s sharp saying that the Puritan rec
formers “ commonly contrived to enjoy the two-fold satisfaction
of tormenting both spectators and hear.” The bears they com.
monly killed outright, which is a diﬁ‘erent thing from tormenting
them. And one can hardly understand the special dislike of the
Puritans to this particular amusement, if it was simply because,
like all other amusements, it “gave pleasure to the spectators.”

Mr. Lecky has collected some instances of feeling with regard
to these matters from the days of the Pepys to our own time.
Pepys, for instance, pronounces bull-baiting to he a “nasty plea-
sure.” This is quite in the spirit of Cicero, and it is a step in the
right direction. The passages collected by Mr. Lecky point to an
earlier feeling against these sports as rough and vulgar, which
grew into a more distinct feeling against them as cruel. Mr. Lecky
of course, deals with the matter only incidentally ; otherwise he
might well have shown how the movement against bull-baiting
and cock-ﬁghtin g was contemporary with, and no doubt con-
nected with, the other movements for the lessening of the harsh-
ness of our criminal law and for the removal of the wrongs of
the slave, the prisoner, and the lunatic. And, above all, special
honour is due to the great moral painter, Hogarth, as one of the
earliest, truest, and boldest among the prophets of humanity. His
series called the “ Progress of Cruelty,” in boldly rebuking bar-
barities some of which are perhaps yet not Wholly extinct, places
them plainly before our eyes, and he forcibly sets forth the na-
tural connexion between inhumanity towards the lower animals
and inhumanity towards man.

And now I shall of course be asked, What is all this to the par.
pose? “Quorsum haeo tam putida tendunt ?” What have the con-
fessed barbarit‘ies of the amphitheatre, the bear-garden, and the
cock-pit to do with the noble diversions of the preserve, the moor,
and the hunting-ﬁeld? What connexion is there between the
savage amusements of ancient heathens or of low rufﬁans among
ourselves and the manly and gallant sports of high-mmded and
reﬁned English gentlemen ? I answer that in all these cases the
principle is the same, the difference is simply a difference of con-
ventionality or at most of degree. In cruelty, as in .everything
else, there are degrees ; I byvno means say that all instances Pf
cruelty are in themselves the same. I by no means deny that in
some cases cruelty is in a manner choked and disgmsed SO as t0
attract many who would be disgusted by it in its naked form.
Still, he the degree greater or less, the stain of cruelty rests upon
all alike. This is the plain truth which Windham had the clear-
Bightedness to look in the face. A fox-hunt is to me a revolting
thing, but it is certainly less revolting than a .bear-bait or .a
Spanish bull-ﬁght. Still the principle of all three IS the same ; 1n

 




 

 

 

 

 

16

all three pleasure is sought in the needless suffering of some
living creature. Those, therefore, who condemn the one, cannot
consistently approve of the other. .
Again, I shall be asked, Do I condemn all persons who practice
amusements of this kind? I answer that I have nothing to do
with condemning persons, but Only with condemning things. I
believe cruelty in all cases to be a sin ; but of the degree of the
sin which is incurred by this or that man, whether in a Roman
amphitheatre or in an English hunting-ﬁeld, I wholly refuse to
judge. The amount of sin, in this as in all other matters, must
mainly depend on the amount of light sinned against, and of the
amount of light sinned against by this or that man no other man
can judge. It will always depend largely upon the circumstances
of a man’s age, country, and position. It is undoubtedly true thae
that many hi gh-minded and cultivated, and in other respects even
humane, men indulge now in hunting and shooting. They call
hunting and shooting noble aud manly sports. But Windham was
also a high-minded and cultivated man, and Windham rejoiced
in sports which he deemed noble and manly, but from which the
modern fox-hunter now turns away in disgust. So were Titus
and Trajan high-minded and cultivated men ; one was the De-
light of Mankind, the other was received as the model of all suc-
ceeding rulers. Yet Titus and Trajan were conspicuous even
among the Caesars for their lavish patronage of sports which in
their days were deemed noble and manly, but from which Wind-
ham would have turned away in disgust. So I do not despair ofa
day coming when an English gentleman will look with the same
disgust on the diversions of the present age with which he now
looks on the diversions of the days of Windham, or with which
Windham looked on the diversions of the days of Titus. Few men
ever look questions of this sort fairly in the face. They do what
is usual in their own time and place; they are satisﬁed with not
offending the public opinion of their own society. And be it re-
membered that this is a great safeguard. The public opinion of
this or that society cannot really alter the eternal laws of right
and wrong. But it may make a vast difference as to the effect of
this or that action on the general character of particular men.
This is a subject on which Lord Macauley has dwelled in several
remarkable passages, and on which Mr. Lecky also has something
to say. Mr. Lecky speaks with great truth of the way in which
men can “localize their feelings, whether of humanity or of any-
thing else. They give humanity or whatever the feeling may be,
full play in certain times, places and circumstances, while conven-
tionality refuses it the same play in other cases which looked at
by the light of abstract reason are exactly the same. I hold that
fox-hunting, bear-baiting, gladiator-ﬁghting, are all in themselves
brutal. But as I do not hold that every modern fox-hunter is a
brute, neither do I hold that every Elizabethian courtier who

 




 

17

attended a bear-bait or every Roman senator who attended a
show in the amphitheatre was necessarily a brute either. There
is distinct evidence that in all these cases he might be gentle
enough in other places. But a gentleman of our own day who
frequents cock-ﬁghts and badger-baits is undoubtedly a brute.
So would a prince of Elizabeth’s day have been, if he had, like
Constantine, thrown his prisoners to the lions. And I believe
that a day will come when fox-hunting will be looked on as no
less unworthy of a man of sense and reﬁnement than badger-
baiting is now. But though conventionality may do a great deal,
it cannot do everything. It cannot change wrong into right. I
cannot but think that the indulgence in cruelty in any form and
in any degree must more or less harden the heart. I am far from
saying that every fox-hunter is a bad man, but I certainly think
that, ccezfem's paribus, the fox-hunter would be a better man if he
were not a fox-hunter. And few would approve of devotion to
pursuits of this kind when it becomes the distinguishing feature
in thecharacter. A mere fox-hunter, a mere bull-baiter, a mere
amateur of gladiators, can never have been an estimable character
1n any age.

Leaving then questions touching individuals, let us look at the
thing itself and at the disguises which mislead many minds so to
approve of certain forms of cruelty while they condemn others.
First of all, there is a fallacy in the word “ hunting.” I believe
that many men would hunt a fox who would be shocked at the,
notion of baiting him. Now there undoubtedly are states of things
where hunting is lawful and necessary and therefore praiseworthy.
I said at starting that it was confessedly lawful to kill animals
either for food or in defence of our lives and properties. Such
hunting as fairly comes under these heads has nothing to be said
against it. My point is that modern hunting does not fairly come
under either of these heads. It is‘ not carried on for either of the
ends which make hunting lawful. It is as distinctly a sport
founded on a morbid love of slaughter and torture as the games
of the amphitheatre.

Let us take the two cases separately. I will ﬁrst take the case
of hunting when it is necessary for the defence of our own lives
and properties. This is lawful war with the wild beasts ; in early
states of society it forms a very important part of man’s business,
and something of the same sort may occur at any time. The man
who shoots a tiger or a wolf is confessedly a public benefactor,
and nothing but a very recent and most grotesque prejudice hin-
ders equal honour from being assigned to the man who shoots a
fox. The object of such hunting as this is not to torture animals for
0111‘ amusement, but to slay them outright for our protection. A.
man whose pastures are harried by a tiger will get rid of the tiger
II} the quickest way that he can, and will not artiﬁcially prolong
hls sufferings for the sake of “sport." No doubt, even in hunting

 




 

 

 

 

18

of this sort, which is confessedly lawful and praise worthy, a cer-
tain love of adventure, a certain satisfaction in the exercise of
skill, even a certain touch of the ccrtaminis gaudia, is perhaps un-
avoidable. It is just the same in a righteous war against ahuman
enemy. I have no doubt that, if I had stood on the hill of Senlac,
I should have felt a strong satisfaction in cleaving the skull of a
Norman. But feelings of this kind need to be kept under careful
control. As soon as either war or hunting loses its purely defen-
sive character, as soon as it is pursued, not distinctly for the
public good, but as a matter of sport or out of sheer love of
slaughter, as soon as suﬁ‘ering is needlessly inﬂicted or wantonly
prolonged, it ceases to be a righteous and praiseworthy occu-
pation, and comes under the general head of cruelty.

Now will modern hunting stand this test? Can any modern
fox-hunter honestly say that his hunting is done with the legiti-
mate object of getting rid of a noxious animal in the quickest
way? It is nothing of the kind. It is plain that instead of men
hunting with any object of getting rid of foxes, the fox exists sim-
ply for the purpose of being hunted. But for the practice of
hunting, the fox would long ago have been as extinct in Eng-
land as his cousin the wolf. Two hundred years back the fox
really was hunted with the object of getting rid of him; every
one must remember St. John’s famous illustration in the case of
Strafford, how a hare or a stag had law given him as a beast of
chase, while a wolf or a fox was knocked on the head as he best
{ﬂight be. But now the breed is artiﬁcially preserved, sometimes
1t 1s actually imported ; it is held as a point of morality that the
llfe Of the fox is sacred except when his death is accompanied
With the prescribed amount of wanton fright and suffering. The
occupler of the soil must put up with any amount of damage from
.a destructive beast, he must forego his natural right of killing
that destructive beast out of hand, in order that the beast may be
preserved for another man to rejoice in his torments. The scho-
larship of the hunting-ﬁeld is called into play, and the grotesque
name of “vulpicide” is invented as an expression of abhorrence
for the. man who exercises the right which nature has given him
of gettlng rid of the destroyer of his fowls and geese. It is strange
indeed that a superstition at once so modern and so absurd should
have got the vogue that it has, but it is not too much to say that
there are many people who really look upon the killing of a fox
anyhow but in the chase as an awful and almost unmentionable
crime. Th1s at once gets rid of any excuse that foxes are hunted in
order to destroy a noxious animal. Instead of this, the animal is
sought out s0metimes he is brought on purpose to the Spot, in
order that hf") may give “ Sport ” by his prolonged sufferings. He
is pursued 13111 he is worn Out by weariness, and then he is put to

death with brutalities e ual to an th' (1 . J -0 d
or the amphitheatre. q y mg one m the bear gar en

 




 

19

Now if this is anything but wanton and deliberate cruelty, I
do not know the meaning of words. The essence of the “sport”
is the needless fright, weariness, and suffering of a living creature,
a creature which we have doubtless a right to destroy, but not a
right to torment. Strip fox-huntin g of its disguises, and its prin«
ciple is, as Windham allowed, exactly the same as the principle
of bull-baiting. To be sure the bull is tied to a stake, while the
fox is allowed to run for his life and has a chance of escape. This
no doubt makes the cruelty somewhat less revolting, but it does
not make it cease to be cruelty. The spectators at abull-bait sim-
ply sit or stand and look on, while the fOX-hunter is an actor, he
follows his victim on horseback, and enjoys healthful air and ex-
ercise in so doing. This is one of the disguises with which the
cruelty is masked, a disguise which no doubt leads many to join
in a fox-hunt who would not join in a bull-bait, but which is
simply a disguise, and which leaves the essential cruelty exactly
Where it was. A bull-bait can be condemned only on the ground
that our amusements ought not to take the forms of inﬂicting
wanton suffering on any creature. And on that principle a fox-
hunt must be condemned also.

A question may arise in all these cases whether the pleasure
felt is actually pleasure in inﬂicting suffering or whether the case
is rather that the accompanying pleasure of other kinds produces
recklessness as to the suffering inﬂicted. I have no doubt that in
many of those who indulge in ﬁeld sports the latter is the pre-
vailing feeling. Many, I have no doubt, consciously or 11.119011-
sciously, shut their eyes to the cruelty which they are committing.
But this process in no way lessens the cruelty. If the needless
inﬂiction of suffering be wrong, we ought not to be reckless about
it, but rather to keep carefully on our guard against it. And I am
not clear that this excuse would be at all peculiar to modern
hunting. I am not clear that in cruel amusements of other kinds
the pleasure to the spectator is always directly drawn from the
mere inﬂictiOn of suffering. I can believe that many a spectator
in the Coliseum or in Paris Garden was thoughtless rather .than
anything else as to the actual pain of the bear or the gladiator.
The pleasure felt doubtless came in many cases rather from the
wild eXcitement of the whole scene than from ‘the distinct con-
sciousness that pain was being inﬂicted. But it is quite certain
that recklessness as to inﬂicting pain may easily grow, and .We
know that it often has grown, into direct pleasure in inﬂicting
pain. Which feeling, or what intermediate stage between the two
feelings, is to be found in the breast of this or that fox-hunter it
is not for me to guess. But it is plain that every fonhunter must
for the time stiﬂe the divine virtues of mercy and pity ; he must
for the time cast aside that grace of “ misericordia,” that “-Ayen-
bite of Inwyt,” which the Roman people itself once felt in the
case of Pompeius’ elephants. Even if he does not actually take

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

20

pleasure in the inﬂiction of suffering, he knows that suffering is
being inﬂicted for no object except his amusement, and he does
not shrink from the amusement in which such suffering is an
element. That the cruelty is an essential element in the sport,
that the presence of a suffering victim is needful for its full en-
joyment, is not to be denied. Those who tell us that they hunt
for the sake of' a healthy exercise could get that healthy exermse
just as well by hunting a red herring or by taking a gallop
wherever a gallop may be had, without hunting anythlng at all.
But I believe that hunting a red herring is looked on with con-
tempt by the “true sportsman.” That is to say, the true sports-
man is not a true sportsman, he has not the full satisfaction of
his sport, unless he is assured that his pleasure involves the
suffering and slaughter of some living being.

I have already fully allowed that there are certain disguises in
fox-hunting which render it less revolting than bull-baiting. That
is to say, this or that sharer of the sport does not seem to have
so direct a hand in the cruelty committed. Many a man who fol-
lows the hounds does not see the ﬁnal brutality, possibly he never
sees the fox at all. But in a bull-bait it is essential that a spectator
should look on during the Whole scene. In these, and in other
ways fox-hunting is undoubtedly less revolting, less corrupting,
than bull-baiting. But, stripped of its disguises, it is equally
cruel, perhaps more cruel. It does not so distinctly offend the
mere sentiment; the cruelty is not so ostentatiously put forward ;
other feelings and other emotions are brought in to obscure the
real nature of the sport. But the principle of cruelty is alike in
both, and I suspect that, as regards the beast itself, fox-hunting
is the more cruel of the two. A ﬁght of any kind, bad as it is, is
one degree less inhuman than amere worry. A ﬁght may be a
source of pleasure to the combatants ; the certaminis gaudia of a
bull or bear-bait are doubtless largely felt by the dogs; they may
be perhaps felt to some extent by the bull or the bear. If the bull
or the bear were allowed free action, there is little doubt that they
would be felt. But iu a fox-hunt the beast is simply chased till
endurance fails him and then he is torn in pieces. The amount
both of deadly fright and of physical suffering must, I think, be
quite equal to anything undergone in the other case.

I say then without hesitation that fox-hunting, which ages
hack may have been a praiseworthy means of ridding the country
ofa noxious animal, has, in its modern shape, degenerated into a
Sport of wanton and deliberate cruelty. Strip it of its disguises,
and it is that and nothing else. Now as for those forms of “sport”
which arise out of the other original and lawful mode of hunting,
namely, the procuring of food. When hunting is the only means of
procuring food, it marks a very low state of society. It is in fact
the cOndition of the mere savage, a condition in which, if our
forefathers ever were at all, it must have been long before the

 

 




 

21

separation of the Ayrian nations. What the sportsman does is
wilfully to prolong the long-past savage state in his own person.
Still it is natural that hunting to procure food should long outlive
the time when it is the only means of procuring food; some forms
of it indeed may always exist in any age. As I fully admit the
lawfulness of killing animals for food, so neither do I argue that
it makes any difference in itself whether the animals killed for
that purpose be wild or tame. If it is lawful to kill an ox, a sheep,
or a tame fowl, it is equally lawful to kill a deer, a hare, or a
pheasant. Indeed in one point of view humanity is less offended
by the slaughter of wild than by that of tame animals. A beast or
bird shot down at once by a skilful marksman certainly suffers
less in every way than a beast which goes through the cere-
monies of the slaughter-house. There is indeed the chance that
the wild animal may be merely wounded and may linger in pain,
but against this may fairly be set the fright, the weariness, per-
haps the actual pain, which, even when no conscious cruelty is
inﬂicted, seems to be almost inseparable from the transit of ani-
mals for slaughter. My objection to shooting looked at merely in
itself comes pretty much to the objection of Cicero. It has always
been a puzzle to me how a reﬁned or educated man can ﬁnd plea-
sure in taking on himself the functions of the butcher. Death
may in many cases be lawfully inﬂicted on both man and beast,
but should death in neither case be made a matter of sport?
Death, even in an animal, strikes me as a deep and awful mys-
tery, a mystery which should not be triﬂed with, a doom the in-
ﬂiction of which should in any case be a matter of grave duty
rather than of reckless amusement. The case of the professional
butcher is one on which I have often’reﬂected, and looking as I do
on the case of men and the case of brutes as simply parts of the
same question, it closely connects itself in my mind with the case
of the professional hangman. This last is the extreme case. It is
clear that the man who executes the sentence of the law is not
doing a wrong action but a right one. Yet I think that everyone
Would say that no good man, no man who had not stiﬂed some of
the best feelings of his nature, would willingly take on him the
ofﬁce of hangman. We can understand, even in hanging a man,
a certain satisfaction in the exercise of skill, but all would say
that it was not a matter in which a man should ﬁnd pleasure or
“sport” in the act itself. We should not think well of a Sheriﬂ‘
Who, from sheer liking, chose to hang a man himself instead of
sending for Calcraft. Now, allowing for the difference between
the life of a man and the life of a beast—a vast difference truly,
but still only a difference of degree—the case of the liangman is
the same as the case of the butcher. In most ages and in most
languages the trade ef the hangman has always borne an appro-
brious name, and the trade of the butcher has come in for a lesser
degree of the same feeling. A man becomes a butcher by force of

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22

circumstances, just as another man becomes a baker or a tailor,
and it does not at all follow that the butcher is a less humane man
than the baker or the tailor. Indeed a humane butcher may do a
vast deal of good and may hinder the infliction of a vast deal of
needless suffering. Still I at least should not think well of a
butcher who took up the trade of a butcher out of sheer love of
blood and slaughter. As in the case of the hangman, the butcher
has no doubt a satisfaction in the exercise of skill; but, in both
cases, the highest skill is the greatest humanity. But to take
direct pleasure in the slaughter as slaughter would surely show a
hard heart. But what is the sportsman, in many forms of “sport,”
but an amateur butcher, a butcher who takes up the trade out of
sheer love of slaughter ? One can hardly fancy any man going out
by preference to kill his own sheep or his own poultry; what con-
ceivable difference does it make if the animals slaughtered be
deer or pheasants ? I ask again with Cicero, “ Quee potest homini
esse polito delectatio i)”, But I must here in fairness make a dis-
tinction. I cannot justify {any form :of sport where pleasure is
sought in the inﬂiction of pain or death, but undoubtedly in the
older forms of shooting, cruelty seems to have a less share than
in any other form of cruel sport. Exercise, skill, adventure, hunt-
ing in the sense of searching for something, come in so largely
that mere slaughter forms a less share in the business than in
any other pursuit of the kind. I do not justify the grouse-shooter
or the deer stalker, but his sport seems to have less of wanton
cruelty in it than that of the fox-hunter. In the case of the deer-
stalker the mere size and majesty of the animal would, one would
think, awaken a certain sentiment of sympathy ; it must need a
hard heart wantonly to shoot down so noble a beast 'in the full
enjoyment of his native wilds. Still there is this difference; the
work of slaughter is not absolutely continuous, and, in intent at
least, it is simple slaughter and not prolonged torture. In the
fox-chase on the other ~,;.hand the work of cruelty glasts without
ceasing from the beginning to the end of the 'sport; the longer
thé animal’s sufferings are prolonged, the greater is the pleasure
of his tormentors. Deer-stalking again and all the older forms of
shooting differ still more plainly from the sickening butchery of
the modern battue, against which public opinion, which would
not venture to utter a word against fox-hunting or deer-stalking,
ever and anon raises its voice. And I can remember the indig-
nant remonstrances of several newspapers at the attempt to in-
troduce among us under princely auspices a form of “sport”
which consisted of the mere slaughter of deer, without any of
the elements of pursuit or adventure, the animals being simply
driven up to be butchered by royal personages sitting at their
ease. The sheer brutal love of slaughter was here stripped of all
disguises, and public opinion condemned it. So it is with the
lowest brutality of all, the “sport,’ of pigeon shooting, where to

 

 

 




 

 

—- .. -m‘h ,

23

mere wanton slaughter the low element of gambling is added.
Fine gentlemen still practice the “sport,” and ﬁne ladies look
calmly on, but protests in more than one neWSpaper show that
they do not carry the universal feeling of the country with them.

There are two forms of modern hunting which differ from fox-
hunting and approach to shooting in so far as the animal hunted
is good for food. These are the chase of the deer and that of the
hare. But no one will say that modern deer-hunting is, like the
hunting of the savage, a pursuit undertaken as the only means of
procuring the only available food. The modern deer-hunt is sim-
ply a run after a creature which there is confessedly no design to
kill, but ou which a great deal of fright and weariness is wantonly
inﬂicted. The “sport” or pleasure to be found in such a piece of
contemptible cruelty is certainly hard to understand. And after
all, in deer-hunting too there are ugly doings done behind the
scenes. In a late article on the subject in the Quarterly Review
we were calmly told, in language which savoured a little of the
slaughterhouse, how the hounds were at certain times allowed to
“go into” a hind—that is, I suppose, to tear her in pieces—in
order to “blood” them. A man who set his dogs to ”war a sheep
in pieces would at once ﬁnd his way before the magistrates, and
few people would pity him if his sentence was as severe as the
law allows. This subtle distinction between one ruminant
and another is really beyond me. The stag-hunting of the few
districts of England where the wild red deer still lingers differs
greatly from the royal sport of Windsor Park. It is at least
shrouded in those disguises which veil from some minds the in-
herent cruelty of all these pursuits. But from my view of the
case it is, like the rest, simple wanton cruelty. A farmer only
exercises a natural right if he kills a wild beast which trespasses
on his pastures ; it is another thing to seek the death or capture
of the same animal by an artiﬁcial process of fright and suffering.
It is a touching feature in this kind of “sport” that the hunted
stag commonly takes refuge in the sea, the wrath of the elements
being less to be feared than the wanton cruelty of man. But
against that wanton cruelty the elements themselves do not afford
a shelter. The luckless beast is pursued in boats, he is seized and
dragged along till he either dies in the waves or is brought to
, land to afford fresh “sport” to his tormentors.

As for the hares, I find that hare-hunting is looked on with dif-
ferent feelings in different parts. In'some districts it is as noble
and gallant and manly as any other form of “sport ;” in others,
while fox-hunting is gentlemanlike and even lad ylike, hare-
hunting is said to be looked down as vulgar. These are dis-
tinctions into which I cannot enter; the principle of cruelty is
essentially the same in all these sports, and it is perfectly indif-
ferent whether it is a prince or a tinker by whom the cruelty is
committed. Still, in the case of hare-hunting, the victim is so

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24

specially timid and defenceless that to condemn it to wanton
fright and torment may perhaps need a harder heart than to do
the like by a stag or a fox. The sufferings of the hare could call
forth a passing emotion of pity even from a heathen Sportsman.
But I presume that, in the amusement of coursing, to see what
Arrian shrank from looking on, and to hear “the last human cry
of the hare in the fangs of the dogs,” forms part of the reﬁned en-
joyment.

Into the indirect effects of sport of this kind I will not enter at
length. My object is to show their inherent cruelty, and the in-
consistency which condemns some forms of cruelty while it allows
others. Otherwise the mere risk of human life which they involve
might not unproﬁtably be dwelt on. This object however is shared
by these pursuits with others which do not involve cruelty, and
the two questions are in themselves distinct. Still the risk of
these sports, and the supposed manliness of facing that risk, is
generally put forth as one of their merits. Now I may be very
blind and mean-spirited, but the manly sport of foxhunting seems
to me not to be manly at all, but to be at once cowardly and fool-
hardy. It is cowardly as regards the cruelty practised on a victim
which cannot defend himself by tormentors who, as far as the
victim is concerned, are perfectly safe. It is foolhardy as risking
men’s lives for no adequate cause. It is manly, it is something
much better than manly, whena man sacriﬁces or risks his life
in a good cause. But I can see nothing manly, nothing in any way
praiseworthy, in a man risking his life in a bad cause or in no cause
at all. When a fox-hunter is suddenly cut off in the midst of his
cruelties, I can see nothing in his end at all resembling the end of
the martyr who dies for his religion or of the hero who dies for
his country. I believe I am unfashionable in thinking so, but I
cannot help it.

I may here tell two stories which I read not long ago in the pa-
pers, of which I perhaps may not exactly remember the details,
but of which the main point alone concerns us. A missionary in
India found the cattle of his neighbours greatly molested by a
tiger. He was, or believed himself to be, a good shot, so he went
out to shoot the tiger. He missed his aim, and the tiger either killed
or badly wounded him. Now, if he took all proper precautions and
had fair reason to trust in his own skill, I say that this man suf-
fered in a good cause. In such a case hunting became a work of
necessity and charity, in no way unworthy even of a minister of re-
ligion. About the same time some young ofﬁcers contrived to
. catch a panther. To have knocked him on the head would have
been to rid the country of a destructive beast. But that would not
have been “ sport.” The captive was kept to be hunted, or baited,
or whatever the proper word may be, with dogs. The panther how-
ever got the best of his enemies, and inﬂicted death or wounds on
one or more of them. These men seem to me to have as distinctly

ﬂap—W ‘.
r

 

 




25

suffered in abad cause as the missionary suffered in a good one. I
have also heard another Indian story which bears in another way
on our subject. A party of Englishmen were chasing a jackal
with dogs, and the hunted beast was met by a native. To his un-
sophisticated mind it seemed that the destruction of the beast and
not its prolonged suffering was the object of its pursuers. He
killed the animal in some way or other, and asked the hunters
for a reward for the help which he had given them. The reception
of a “nigger” who had spoiled “sport” may easily be guessed.
The moral and social effects of these sports form a subject
which opens many questions. Nothing is plainer than that the
love of hunting in its different forms has led to some of the worst
acts, to some of the most unjust and oppressive legislation, to be
found in all history. The accursed forest laws of old times,
surviving in a modiﬁed shape in our modern game laws, are the
suitable monuments of an age of special devotion to the chase.
It was not wonderful if those who found their chief pleasure in
the suﬁ‘erings of animals learned to look lightly on the sufferings
of their fellow-men, and if they fenced in their savage enjoyments
with a code of the blackest cruelty. It was the love of hunting
which led directly to the worst deeds of our Norman kings, and,
though no such results can happen now, yet the example is in-
structive. It shows the natural effect of the unrestrained indul-
gence of such pursuits on men who were but little under the
restraint of law or opinion in other ways. In our own day it is
shooting rather than hunting in the modern sense which does
harm in a legislative way. I am not going to discuss the wide
subject of the game-laws, one which would carry me far away
from my main subject. I will only say that, next to a Jamaica
court-martial, no mockery of justice can be conceived greater than
that of a game-preserving squire sitting to convict a poacher on
the evidence of a game-keeper. The sentence may be, and often is,
perfectly just; the law, good or bad, must be enforced, and the
poacher is in most cases a thorough scoundrel. But it Wlll behard
indeed to make people believe that the magistrate is not dealdmg
in the interest of his own Order and of his own pleasures rather
than in the interests of justice. As myself a county magistrate,
as one of a class which, I must say, is more abused than it de-
serves, I may honestly say that, even in this matter, we are .“ not
so bad as we seem.” Still the thing has a very ugly look 1n all
cases, and ever and anon it becomes an ugly reality. I speak. of
our English game-laws and their effects ; as to the depOpulation
of the Highlands I can say nothing from my own knowledge,
and, as statements vary widely, I will hold my peace. But 1n
England I do not hesitate to say that, though there is. much ex-
aggeration and misapprehension aﬂoat on the subject, it would be
a great gain for the morals of the peeple and for the credlt of the
administration of justice if no such thing as a hare or a pheasant

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26

had been left in the country. On this score at least the fox-hunter
is not to be complained of. The legislation which conﬁnes hunting
to a certain time of the year has done away with some of its in-
cidental evils. The hunter no longer goes, as in the days of Sir
Roger de Covcrly, “like a blast over ﬁelds of corn..”. But his
sport has its incidental evils also. The strange superstition about
“ vulpicide ” easily becomes oppressive, though I suspect that 1t 18
not so often oppressive as it is corrupting and degrading. In many
places at least the hunt pays for the damage done, or said to be
done, by foxes, and, though my sympathies are not with the
hunt, I can well believe that the hunt is sometimes cheated. But
it seems to me to be a degrading relation in which to put a man,
to require him to bear unresistingly the damage done by a wild
beast, to forbear from exercising his natural rights against that wild
beast, on the promise of payment from those who wish to reserve
the beast for a death of elaborate suffering. And it does seem to
me that the effect of these pursuits on the general character of their
votaries is not a good one. The difference of degrees of course is
inﬁnite; many men hunt who can hardly be called hunting-men;
but when the pursuit is followed to such a degree as to be a
marked feature in a man’s character, the effect is not good. There
is a tendency—I do not say that there is more than a tendency—to
a certain lawless and overbearing spirit, to a certain contempt to the
rights of others, and to a strong intolerance of the opinions and
tastes of others. Hunting is, at most, an allowable sport; but in
some minds it seems to become like a religion or a political party.
It becomes the business of life and something more. It becomes a
sacred thing, to which all other persons and things must give way,
and any interfering with which by word or deed, is worse than mur-
der or sacrilege. I believe many fox-hunters really lookon anything
which spoils their “sport” not only as an inconvenience or an
injury to themselves, but as something in itself criminal, as some—
thing monstrous and unnatural. The “sport” is something in
the eternal ﬁtness of things, something superior to all consider-
ations whatever. Though I disapprove of the position of the fox-
hu-nter, I believe that I can understand it. I condemn his pursuit,
but I do not necessarily condemn him; still less do I look on him
as a portent or a monster. But I feel sure that the conﬁrmed fox-
hunter would not only condemn or ridicule my position, it would
seem to him something strange and unnatural, which he would
be unable to understand.

Such then is my case. The true question lies in a nut-shell. Is
it right to inﬂict, and to seek pleasure in inﬂicting, needless sufe
fering on any creature whatever? To me it seems that this ques-
tion is answered by the social and legal condemnation of bull-
baiting. Bull-baiting is condemned on that ground ; it can hardly
be condemned on any other. I ask then again, as I did at the
l egznnin g, Is there any difference in principle between fox-hunting

 

 




 

 

 

27

and bull-baiting, so that fox-hunting can be right if bull-baiting is
wrong? The details, the circumstances, nearly all the incidental
con comitants,of‘a fox-hi1 nt are, 1 fully admit, far less revolting than
those of a bull-bait. But is there any difference in principle? Was
not \Vindham right in saying that the two must stand or fall to-.
gether? Is not the needles inﬂiction of suffering, and pleasure
taken in that inﬂiction, the essence of both alike '9

I ask for a sober consideration of these questions. The subject
is one on which one is Commonly met with simple amaZement,
with mere bluster or ridicule, or with answers so absurd that
they cannot he meant seriously. I. need not stOp to discuss an
answer which I have heard more than once, namely, that “the
fox likes it.” And some things that are said in defence of the
practice are oﬂ' the point. Fox-hunting is said to have some social
advantages, I mean real social advantages in linking together
class and class. In this I believe there is some truth as regards
some particular classes; but supposing it to be more true than it

is, it does not'touch the question. It s. ouid not be forgotten that
the sports of the amphitheatre had, as Mr. Lecky acutely remar s,
a direct political advantage. They aﬂ'orded the only time when
the Roman despot and his subjects were brought face to face, and
when he was made to feel some degree of responsibility. We are
told too that, if there were no ﬁeld sports, country gentlemen
would ﬁnd nothing to do. This again does not touch the question,
and the saying is a libel on very many country gentlemen, both
among those who hunt and those who do» not. I could point to
a good many country gentlemen, to men who are the salt of their
class, who—whether for my reasons or for any other I cannot al~
ways say~—-never join in ﬁeld-sports, and What is more, whose pub-
lic and private duties would not allow them time tojoin in them.
We are told that many men, if they were not hunting, would be
doing something worse. This I can well believe ; but it only proves
that hunting is not the worst of all occupations, and I never said
that it was. Then we are told that the amount of animal suffering
inﬂicted in other ways, by drovers, by cabmen, by butchers, is
much greater than what is inﬂicted in hunting. This is doubtless
true, but it does not touch the point. It is no excuse for one form
of cruelty to show that other, perhaps worse, forms of cruelty may
be found. And there is this all-important difference. Whatever
cruelties are committed by drovers or cabmen, however great may
be their aggregate amount, are still incidental. The calling of a
drover or a cabman gives great opportunities for cruelty, but it in
no way involves it. A cabman or a drover perhaps seldom is, but
he always may be, aperfectly humane man, who takes all heed
never to occasion any needless suffering to the animals “under his
care. A butcher too may be a thoroughly humane man, who takes
all heed that no animal which passes under his hands undergrms
anything beyond simple and speedy death. In all these cases,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28

though cruelty is frightfully common, yet it is always an abuse,
it is no essential part of the occupation. But a humane fox-hunter
is a contradiction in terms, because in his occupation cruelty is
not an occasional incident but the essence of the whole thing. He
may, through that localization of feeling of which Mr. Lecky
speaks, be humane at other times and places, but humane as a
fox-hunter he cannot be.

I have indeed heard hunting defended on a kind of philosophical
principle, but it is one which, when examined, is found to prove a
great deal too much. Creatures, we are told, are made to prey on
one another; the dog has the instinct of prey, so has the man him-
self. He is therefore in no way sinning by following his own na-
tural instinct and by witnessing and encouraging the instinct of
the dog. The manifest answer to this is that, if this argument
proves anything at all, it justiﬁes every sort of cruelty, or rather
every sort of wickedness to which a man may profess to feel a
natural impulse. It justifies bull-baiting as well as fox-hunting,
and it would justify still worse things than bull-baiting. The
destructive instinct af the bull-dog is at least as natural as that of
the foxhound, and if the encouragement of one forms a lawful
sport, the encouragement of the other must do the same. And if
there be a natural impulse towards pursuit and destruction, which
may be lawfully gratiﬁed because it is a natural impulse, any in-
humanity, whether towards man or towards beast, may be justi-
fied on the same ground. I doubt the existence of a natural im-
pulse towards pursuit and destruction as such. It seems to me to
be only the perversion of a natural impulse. I can understand the
certamim's gmidia. We have in us an impulse of self-defence, an
impulse of wrath at wrong done to ourselves or to others, which,
especially when heightened by the natural desire of success, may
give a zest to warfare or conﬂict of any kind. And such an im-
pulse as this may easily degenerate into mere love of ﬁghting, and
from mere love of fighting it may degenerate into something like
a mere love of destruction. The combative instinct is one given us
for good purposes; but, like some other instincts given us for
equally good purposes, it needs to be specially controlled and kept
in order. But a mere impulse of destruction I cannot admit as
anything but a corruption of our nature, and to argue that such
an impulse may be gratiﬁed in sheer wantonness is a very dan-
gerous doctrine, and one which might be pressed to very frightful
lengths indeed. The whole existence of death and pain, of evil of
any kind, is the deepest and saddest of mysteries. But it is plain
that, for whatever ends pain and evil may be allowed in the world,
it is at least our business to lessen their amount, not to increase it
or to seek our pleasure in them. The line of argument of which I
speak, if consistently carried out, would give full scope to all the
ﬁercer, and would stiﬂe all the gentler, emotions of our nature. If
we may take pleasure in the inﬂiction of pain and death, because

 

 




 

 

29

pain is a part of the order of nature, there is no knowing where
we are to stop. The sport of the amphitheatre, the excesses of
every tyrant, would at once become justiﬁable.

I have also been told that my argument proves too much, that if
I condemned fox-hunting, I should in consistency be a vegetarian
and condemn all slaying of animals. But surely the distinction on
which my whole argument rests, between the inﬂiction of simple
death for an adequate purpose and the inﬂiction of needless suf-
fering in sheer wantonness, is a perfectly tenable one. Even if we
did not kill animals for food, it would be necessary to kill them
for other purposes. If animal life were absolutely sacred, human
life would become intolerable. But I cannot see that the right to
torment is at all involved in the right to kill. And we may use
the same line of reasoning as that which I used in the last para-
graph. This argument, if it justiﬁes anything, justiﬁes everything.
If the inﬂiction of death for purposes of food or defence justiﬁes
the inﬂiction of needless suffering for purposes of mere amuse-
ment, it must justify it in one case as well as another. That is to
say, bull-baiting'and cock-throwing must be as lawful as fox-
hunting. At every stage and at every corner we come back to the
unanswerable saying of Windham.

It sometimes strikes me that sportsmen, those at least among
them who have any capacity or any inclination for thought, often
show a lurking feeling of doubt as to the rightfulness of their own
pursuit. The big words of bluster and ridicule which are so often
used are not only void of argument, but they. betray a certain,
perhaps an almost unconscious, uneasiness which seeks relief in
this kind of talk. Sportsmen are sometimes rather too loud in the
praises of their pursuit; they are sometimes too eager .to defend
it even when it is not attacked. The famous description of Slr
ROger de Coverley’s hunting in the Spectator 1s a notable ex-
ample. Budgell there works himself up into a great pitch of ad«
miration for the pursuit in which he is engaged, and assures us
that he felt that it was perfectly innocent. 'lhis uncalled-for tone,
half of deﬁance, half of apology, is just the tone. whlch aman puts
on when he is not quite certain that his pursult is innocent, but
is anxious to persuade himself that it is so. And. dlrectly after-
wards he lets out his doubt by confessing to these natural qualms
0f pity which must occur in such a case to any heart which is not
utterly steeled against all mercy. If he felt concern for the poor
hare, he ought not to have been inﬂicting needless fright and suf-
fering on the pOOII hare. If Sir Roger “could not ﬁnd In. his heart
to murder a creature which had given him .so. much (33913109,
he ought not to have found diversion in inﬂlctmg suffering which
stopped only short of death, and which was doubtless far more
bitter than a speedy death would have been. k

Budgell presently goes on with a dlscussion of some remar 13
of Pascal against hunting, which, as quoted by 111m»do not to“ 1

 




    

 

    

30

the question either way, any more than Budgell’s defence of the
sport, which comes to little more than its being a healthy exercise.
And I think that this same sort of uneasiness is often displayed
in incidental sayings of lovers of hunting, an uneasiness which, as
I have said, sometimes takes the form of bluster. A man who is
quite certain of the innocence of his pursuit, to defend it, does
not show the sort of busy anxiety. On the other hand I some-
times see in advocates of humanity a strange shrinking from
grappling with this particular form of cruelty. I was much struck
with this in a clever local paper which I once bought at Man-
chester, which contained an article on cruelty to animals well and
vigorously written, and, if anything, on some points going a little
too far in the direction of Lord Townshend. But when the article
came to “ the dehateable ground of sport,” the writer suddenly
found out that he had neither space nor inclination to enter on the
subject. I must call this a cowardly shrinking from duty. In fact
the whole matter simply needs to be boldly and honestly thought
out by any man capable of thinking. The great object therefore
with lovers of these pursuits is to avoid thought on the Subject.
For my own part I ask nothing of any reader of this essay except
boldly to look the question in the face and honestly to weigh
what I say. Cast away all prejudices, all conventionalities, all
subterfuges, look the thing boldly in the face, and will any one
tell me either that it is really right to seek amusementin the suf—
fering of any living creature, or that hunting is anything but
amusement sought in the sufferings of a living creature? Will
any one who engages in such sports tell me that he does not, for
the time at least, stiﬂe the divine voice of mercy within him, that
he does not, for the time at least, give the reins to the passions
of the wild beast or the savage ? It may sound a hard saying, but
in truth the joy of the hunter is only a lesser form of that in-
tensified delight in cruelty which saw only a “merry, merry show,”
in those sports, those huntings, of old in which the human victim
had to struggle against the lion and the tiger.

Now, as a man’s views and arguments are commonly more or
less affected by his personal position, I think it right to say that
my views on these matters are wholly the result of reﬂection. I
have no hereditary prejudices either way. I was brought up in a
way which gave me no incentives or opportunities for ﬁeld-sports,
but, on the other hand, I was not taught to look on them as
wrong. I do not think that the general question was ever brought
before my mind in childhood by my elders. I do indeed re-
member being told that it was unbecoming in a clergyman to
hunt, but that there was no objection to his shooting. I also re-
member that, when I was very young, a school-fellow argued with
me against ﬁeld-sports, that I ﬁrst tried to argue in their favour,
but that in the end had to yield to what be advanced. Possibly I
retain the effect of that childish argument to this day ; but for a

4. ‘
#Q

 




 

 

 

 

 

  

31

long-while I had no occasion to think much about a matter which
never was a practical question for my own conduct. Afterwards
-—~now long ago——I was lethoithink deeply on the whole matter,
and here is the result. Whatever may be thought of my views,
they have not been hastily taken up, nor are they the result of
any prejudices of family, class, or sect. Circumstances have
enabled me to look at the matter without any prepossessions
either way. My opinions have been at least thought out by myself,
honestly, independently, and, I may add, fearlessly. And such a
process and its results have not been free from the pain of having '
to condemn the pursuits of more than one person, every act of
whom I should have been well pleased to approve.

The advocates of humanity have‘a hard battle to ﬁght, but I
am not without hope. The good cause has made great advances.
As in everything else, there are ﬂuctuations and reactions, and
perhaps of late years there may have been a certain reaction in
favour of cruelty. So it has been with the growth of political
freedom; still political freedom has advanced, and so I feel that
it must in the 'end he with the cause of humanity. With regard
to man and beast alike, great has been the progress since the days
of Titus, great has been the progress since the days of Elizabeth.
And in every step in the right direction, whether in the cause of
freedom or in the cause of humanity, I can rejoice. I detest the
cruelty of fox-hunting; yet when I look back to what has been,
I can feel glad that, at least among persons of decent character,

‘ fox-hunting is the worst form of cruelty that I have to condemn.
And a chain of witnesses has never been wanted since the days
of Saint Anselm and Saint Ceadda and the old time before them.
Jane Grey with her Plato before her, while f‘the poor souls who
knew not what true pleasure was” were seeking for 1t 1n the pangs
of the hart panting for the water-brooks, stands to all time as a
beacon, specially to those of her own sex who can seek for plea-
sure in the inﬂiction of pain. In every age there have been some
who could say that-—

“ N 0 bright bird, insect or gentle beast
I consciously have injured, but still loved
And cherished these my kindred.”

Who does not remember in his childhood the young hero in the
tale of Sandf'ord and Merton who, in the spirit of the old saints,
withstands the torturers of the hunted hare, and refuses, even
under the blows of the savage hunter, to betray the unfortunate ?
The protests of the gentle Cowper, the warning vome of the
Ancient Mariner, must still sound in some ears. I ﬁnd in the
Life of the great and good Dr. Petrle that, .through his whole
life he raised his protests against sports of this klnd, and warned

manya sportsman that his pursuits were those of the savage.

The writings of Sir Francis Palgrave are full. of passages of ex-

quisite beauty and tenderness, wrung from lnm by the events of

 

  




32

a history which set before him the pursuits of the hunter in their
naked ugliness. I do not envy the feelings of the sportsman who
can read What Sir Francis says as to the desolation of Hampshire
and the fate of William Rufus without a qualm as to the lawful-
ness ofhis sport. Biit perhaps these witnesses may be despised
as thetestimony of recluse students incapable of'entering into a
noble and manly sport. But I believe that it would be possible to
name more than one gallant soldier, who could both take and
jeopard life when his duty bade him, but who deemed it no sign
of courage to rejoice in the needless anguish oi’man or beast. And
I will wind up with the touching words—words which I have
lighted on since I began this epsay-of one who, if a poet and a
student, is also a practised man of the world :—-—

“ The strife, the gushing blood, the mortal throe,
With scenic horrors ﬁlled that belt below,
And where the polished seats were round it raised,
\Vorse spectacle ! the pleased spectators gazed.
Such were the pastimes of the past ! Oh shame,
Oh infamy ! that men who drew the breath
Of freedom, and who shared the Roman name,
Should so corrupt their sports with pain and death.

“ The pastimes of times past? And what are thine,
Thou with thy gun or greyhound, rod and line P
Pain, terror, mortal agonies, that scare
The heart in man, to brutes thou wilt not spare.
Are theirs less sad and real ? Pain in man
Bears the high mission of the ﬂail and fan.
1n brutes ’tis purely piteous. God’s command,
Submitting his mute creatures to our hand
For life and death, thou shalt not dare to plead ;
He bade thee kill them, not for sport, but need.
Then backward if thou cast reproachful looks
On sports bedarkening custom erst allowed,
Expect from coming ages like rebukes
When day shall dawn on peacefuller woods and brooks,
And clear from vales thou troublest, custom’s cloud.”

EDWARD A. FREEMAN.

 

 

 

BIRMINGHAM: M. MAHER AND SON, HIGH STREET.

 

 

 

 




