AWARE. mmme meﬁl'rm
' 22 East 17th Street
HEW Yﬂrk 33 Ha Yo

April 25, 1963

ﬁre. Isabel Sleﬁer

Eeeeme aﬁeceﬁien Ineﬁiﬁee of Afriee
F.§, SQX 2&73

yer ee ealeem

?ﬁngemyike, Best ﬁfriee

veer Eeebelg

fﬁm ee g.ee ﬁe heer ﬁheﬁ gem? eyereﬁiem wee a greeﬁ
Be eure neﬁ ﬁe gn'beek ﬁe week ﬁee feeﬁg ﬁheugk, fee I
qaw'ygﬂ ﬁrive ymmreelfa

( . a.» 5 'va‘ - A H , . my 3‘ ' 5" .- A; ‘1': ”um-M. “"' ‘ih‘ ‘, ‘ ” x' * ‘1 - ‘ "l 7 ' “Q ”3' ‘ 'H.‘ " m;
ﬁﬁ the anneal Wmﬁtiﬂﬂ mi “me wgmﬁﬁg geemieﬁeeng ﬁhe eeeeﬁlﬁh

came up 0f tax Tproeleme eriexeg ee ﬁhe eeeelﬁ ef gifﬁe to fereiqn

f"

eacieﬁieeg emd ewe ef ﬁhe memﬁere eeggeeﬁeﬁ ﬁheﬁ ﬁhe Merle dil€1;;e
Fund might be wiﬁlimg ﬁe eeeepﬁg fer a email fee, eomﬁribeﬁiene ﬁe
EEIA and page them an ﬁe you, Same arreagemenﬁ e5 ﬁhaﬁ Rimd e111
have ﬁe be maﬁa if ﬁee‘einﬁey Feemﬂeﬁiem ie to g"ve enyﬁhﬁng moee
ﬁe EEIA, and E wenﬁereﬁ if yea heee eeee in ﬁaueh eiﬁh ﬁhe 'ﬁerld.
ﬁildlifg gﬂgyga ﬁe e11. Tﬁeyg ef eeueeeg'heve ﬁax eleeregce fee
all the ceunﬁriee wheee ﬁhey'ere reieieﬁ memey.

we’re heegieEIEy prepering fer ﬁeerixge, $9 3 ﬁﬁngﬁ ﬁrigﬁ
were new, buﬁ jueﬁ eenﬂ beeﬁ eieiee. 13m aefuily glee yeu’re ever
year ardeel.

10ers,

 




2/- 91m .

%fﬂdﬁ6

éﬂﬁv'

‘C-

1111111.1 1
255 4g13t
vﬁwv thrki 5,

1" ”W" YCR , U

Dear Mr

8.

1i 11(1vv 1;}13
SUCCSSSful,
wowmrl 1%“
nun”? Ding tr
USSWS ore tjnat
time. 1 am Er
meantime.

( :1
{‘1 I1 ‘5‘

-1 n?- 111 1
you Wag nupSS

few weeks time.

t }m..r

I’d

(Ekﬁgaxﬂ%ma

£11421”; a//
(a? 6?

ngééaﬂ
“6" M7 ﬂﬂ% 2425:
£1255? e44 daft/am

(Znﬂagy&%a/ (90122?

4th Apy‘l 1963

.1." )4- {3 63 1’1 S,

:11»? t1 t-{J-ge,

h Stleet,

*‘ﬁ
OR}. 1».

Stevens,

I am writing £0? E
e76

to lSt
ape mtiom
1y

ETC. 31119 you
has I:Se m1 ordalfuLVV

JiS ion has 096 n re: aﬁc>red to @lWOQT
out of hOSpita1, bu: W111 be
mnnt,€oﬁ the next few WSSWS, and will
E able to USB her eyes dur1n< tha t
Sklping with her 011108 WOEW in the
1v113_
to be

15‘

8C:
1}
{C}

be

“VELJ 1iLSSS,S
SblS

to hear from
to vu;:Lte

“won811y in a

 




PRINTED BY TANGANYIKA STANDARD LTD.

SSUED BY THE R.S.P.C.A.J§a-r—es-5ala~am.
‘ 'lANQ'rHNYlK-D ‘

 




ENGLISH AND SWAHILI

w “VFW! ‘
\ \\\&\

‘s
:.
I1
,,
,
5 .
J

.
‘
.,
x
‘1
|

5 ~ _ MAsomo ‘KATIKA ‘
g w I KUTUNZA WANYADIA  
i; - . WETU ‘ . -

‘ - _ EDUCATION IN _ .
< X ANIMAL WELFARE ﬂ

. 1/15

 




MAFUNZO KATIKA KUTUNZA
WANYAMA WETU

Mfuatano wa Masomo MepeSi kwa kutumiwa
katika Afrika ya Mashariki

 

EDUCATION IN ANIMAL WELFARE

A SERIES OF 12 EASY LESSONS
FOR USE IN EAST AFRICA

By
Kimetungwa na
ISOBEL SLATER

 

THE EAGLE PRESS

Kampala DAR ES SALAAM Nairobi
. 1955

 

 




 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

To the R.S.P.C.A. London, Animal Welfare Society of South Africa and
members of the Veterinary profession, for inspiration, helpful suggestions and cr1t1c15m
in the production of the book.

 

 

 

   




 

 

 

 

 

Well cared for and contented
animals

Wanyama wanaotunzwa vema

 




 

W, ,.,.._V.... “~w:<‘p_w.fl_i
- ‘ ~‘\Lt’_;s,“ l‘__--l v..-;

"iiaajx; L43: «_ tart}; gm... _ __

.; m. r.

““57 ,7 ‘isz‘sc-N £iLlAHuQ~LaLl

g.

min—q:

., _. ,tlbk;§£"ﬂ.v. .ﬂ-gui

A44- 3.,

(it
it
3-?

"v.31” 1:7?
.1 pm“ .-.,, . -

. 3-,." , —‘- .4» Va”: “1. :1 l,‘.;:__, <r<:_._v .1. - own A V: .: - A ,21. .7“: .: ._. V _
guy‘ﬂnluua 4.”; «Li 4.;- . .~_ » .Ab,’ , _.- _ _ LAMAR“ . A >\_. w .‘ ... g i” M “

 

: ‘-"‘,2-‘f2;"_5:~. . A.

 

CONTENTS

Introduction

Lesson 1.

Lesson 2.
Lesson 3.
Lesson 4.
Lesson 5.
Lesson 6.
LeS‘son 7.
Lesson 8.

Lesson 9.

Friends and Servants
Things We Should Not Do
Cattle

Donkeys

Goats and Sheep

Pigs

Our Good Friend The Dog
Onr Cat

Poultry (F owls)

Lesson 10. Birds of the Air

Lesson 11.

Wild Animals

' Lesson 12. General Principles to Remember—Simple First Aid

Page

Vi

10

l6_

24
32
36
38
44
48
52
54
56

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Utangulizi
Somo La 1.
Somo La 2.
Somo La 3.
Somo La 4.
Somo La 5.
Somo La 6.
Somo La 7.
Somo La 8“.
Somo La 9.
Somo La 10.
Somo La 11.
Somo La 12.

YALIYOMO

Ukurasa

Vi

Raﬁki Na Watumishi I 9
Mambo Yasiyotupasa Kuyafanya 11
Ng’ombe “ '17
Punda 25
Mbuzi Na Kondoo 33
Nguruwe 37
Raﬁki Yetu Mwema Mbwa 39
Paka Wet‘u 45
Kuku 49
Ndege Wa Hewani 53
Wanyama Wa Mwituni 55

Kanuni Kuu Za Kukumbuka—éHuduma Ya

Kwanza Iliyo Rahisi

57

 




 

 

 

 

INTRODUCTION

Education in animal welfare is essential for the following reasons, firstly from
the humanitarian aspect. The awakening and fostering of the .sense of. jUSthC and
sympathy developed through the educative process, gu1des the imagination towards
respect for the lowest animals so that they may occupy their rightful place in our
domestic lives. In this, it is the heart that can triumph over intellect.

Secondly, we have the economic side to consider. . To the poor man the welfare
of his animals means the welfare of his home and family.

It seems rather useless trying to educate the rural masses in Africa unless at
the same time they are taught how to look after their animals. To millions of villagers,
their animals mean their wealth, and the whole point of modern education, although
admirably directed to raising the standard of living, will be completely lost unless the
people are educated in the matter of animal welfare also.

The whole standard of the Villagers can be raised through education in animal
welfare. Most Africans have a love for their animals but failure to reason about them
is at the root of the cruel and neglectful conditions seen in so many thousands of cases.
Animals with sores and verminous, kept in dirty and evil-smelling places, give ample
evidence of this. The lives of these animals and their usefulness are shortened through
such ignorant neglect, and their money-earning capacity reduced considerably.

Often these animals are the “ breadwinners ” of a family, and on their well- '
being depends the whole domestic economy of their owners. If animals sicken and
die through lack of care and knowledge as to their needs, many owners can be left
destitute. Marked evidence of this can be seen in times of drought. So people in
their ignorance kill the source of their livelihood.

Let education, without delay, be directed towards raising the standard of the
rural masses by initiating and implementing an extensive programme of animal welfare ‘
instruction. The Schools can do much to build up the right attitude of the rural
people towards animals. The children must be trained to a sense of responsibility
where animals are concerned. A great moral can be learned through kindness to
animals, and it may be truly said that people who are kind to dumb animals will be
kind and considerate to one another. *Any person who can slash an animal with a
panga or other weapon, or injure it with a spear or arrow in a ﬁt of rage or vengeance,
might as easily turn on his fellow men in the same cowardly way.

The education of the people in the matter of animal welfare might well form

the basis on which the whole structure of a rural community could be raised to a much
higher standard of livmg.

DAR ES SALAAM [SOBEL SLATER

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

UTANGULIZI

Elimu ya utunzaji wa wanyama ni muhimu kabisa kwa sababu zifuatazo, kwanza
kwa sababu ya huruma. Kuamsha na kutia moyo wa haki na huruma kwa wanyama
uliostawishwa kwa njia ya elimu, huongoza ﬁkara za kuwajali wanyama ili waweze
kushika nafasi yao ya haki katika maisha yetu ya nyumbani. Katika jambo hilo ni
moyo unaoweza kufanikiwa kuliko akili tu.

Pili, yatupasa kuﬁkiri upande wamapato. Kwa maskini, utunzaji wa wanyama
wake huwa. utunzajl wa nyumba na Jamaa yake.

Yaonekana haina maana sana kuwaelimisha watu wa mashamba katika Afrika
isipokuwa wakati ule ule wafundishwe na kutunza wanyama wao pia. Kwa watu
elfu elfu wa mashamba, wanyama wao ndio utajiri wao, na shauri lote 1a elimu, inga-
wa limetengenezwa kwa namna ya ajabu sana kwa ajili ya kuinua hali ya maisha ya
watu, itapotea bure kama watu hawafundishwi jinsi ya kutunza wanyama wao.

..... a

Maisha yote ya watu wa Vljljlnl yaweza kukuzwa kwa njia ya mafunzo ya
utunzaji wa wanyama. Waafrika wengi wapenda wanyama wao, lakini asili ya ukatili
na kutotunzwa vema wanyama, hali ambayo inawapata wanyama, elfu elfu, ni kutotumia
akili. Wanyama wenye vidonda na Viini vya ugonjwa, wanaofugwa mahali pachafu
panaponuka, ni ushahidi wa kutosha wa jambo hilo. Maisha ya wanyama hao na
manufaa yao hupunguzwa kwa ajili ya ujinga huo, na mapato ya fedha yaletwayo na
kazi zao hupunguka pia. ‘

Mara nyingi. wanyama hao, kwa kazi zao “ huwaletea chakula ” jamma, na
mapato ya nyumbani yategemea matunzaji mema ya wanyama wenyewe. Kama
wanyama wanapata magonjwa nakufa kwa sababu ya kukosa matunzaji na ujuzi
wa mahitaji yao, wenyeji wengi waweza kuwa maskini kabisa. Ushahidi ulio wazi
waweza kuonekana siku za kukosa mvua. Watu maskini kwa ujinga wao huharibu
chanzo Cha riziki zao.

Basi elimu iingizwe bila kuchelewa ili kukuzarhali ya watu wa mashamba kwa
kuanzisha mpango wa mafunzo ya utunzaji wa wanyama. Skuli zaweza kusaidia
sana katika kuwatia watu moyo mwema wa kuwahurumia wanyama. Ni, lazima
watoto wafundishwe kwamba ni wajibu wao kuwahurumia wanyama. Mwenendo
mwema waweza kupatikana kwa njia ya kuwahurumia wanyama, na yaweza kusemwa
kwa hakika kuwa watu wanaokuwa wapole kwa wanyama, ambao kwa asili hawawezi
kusema, watakuwa wapole na wenye huruma kwa wenzao. Mtu ye yote awezaye
kumkata mnyama, kWa panga au silaha nyingine katika hali ya hasira au kisasi, ataweza
pia kuwatendea wenzake namna ,hiyo hiyo, tena kwa urahisi.

Elimu ya watu ihusuyo utunzaji wa wanyama yaweza kutengeneza msingi
ambao utaifanya hali ya maishagya watu linuhwe Juu zaldl.

ISOBEL SLATER
DAR Es SALAAM

 




Lesson 1. 4
FRIENDS AND SERVANTS

There are four reasons why we should treat our animals with
kindness:

1. They are our friends and servants.

2. . They serve us well and demand nothing in return; if they
could speak, all they ask would be food, water, and a clean,
safe and sheltered place to sleep.

3. They provide us with food and milk, also clothing from .
their skins. ~

4. ' ,When we sell them in good condition, more money is ob-
tained for the upkeep of our homes and families.

For these reasons we should ensure their well-bein g by taking the
greatest care of them. See that they always have enough to eat and
plenty of fresh, clean water to drink. See that they have proper
housing and protection, especially at night when wild animals are on
tlﬁe prowl for food, and unscrupulous persons might steal or injure
t em.

We must always protect our domestic animals in times of danger,
or when they are in need of our help. Animals can suffer greatly
when catastrophe occurs, such as the distress caused through ﬁre,
storm or ﬂood. Drought also can be looked upon as a time of great

' distress. Animals are very often forgotten during such hard times
when all help is directed towards saving human lives. But the animals
should not be forgotten. Let us try and remember that they are part

of our domestic life and they deserve our help and protection at all
times.

Animals are easily terriﬁed by noise and commotion and un-
- usual happenlngs, far more so than human beings, who can feel
I secure in the knowledge that help will come to them. The animals

3 have not this comfort; always they fear that they will be abandoned
and left to suffer from unknown terrors.

avenﬁjut 1;:5 3.1-L A; A c ' LI :ef "-42“ r" «: .3-3; 43;. v. f ~':£"_- :15“ T £22,113 4 L" -_ I ‘71":4': .75.» AV« .3... '1. 1°C?“ 7_ THC} ‘\

éi' ::., 7'3? 4

 

, W-L.._.

 

|,'
’I
't!
if
:Il
:-
A
tit
,_ a
5
‘1“
I:
t .
re
.3!

5.55.:

up...

‘1":

2.55%: 93.193. ’3‘.

:2???

..~ .c-v‘

“H“; x. ”'55:??-

;n at. *4

- :r -:::z_-7M., 4;. 3E“ tar: $15
.- ,3 an”-.. L _.

LET us TRY To MAKE OUR ANIMALS FEEL THAT WE ARE '
THEIR FRIENDS AND WILL NOT FORSAKE THEM NOR
LEAVE THEM To SUFFER

8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

V. A'—

4“ 4“

 

SOMO LA 1

RAFIKI NA WATUMISHI \

Sababu nne zinazohusu wajibu wetu katika kuwatendea wa-

nyama huruma ni hizi:

1. Wao ni raﬁki na watumishi wetu.

2. Wanatutumikia vema waia hawadai kitu kwa kazi zao ;
kama wangeweza kusema, wasingetuomba cho chote ila
chakula, maji, na mahali saﬁ pa kulala.

3. Wanatupatia chakula 11a maziwa, pia mavazi kwa ngozi 2210.

4. Tunapowauza wanapokuwa katika hali njema, fedha nyi-
ngi zaidi hupatikana kwa matumizi ya nyumbani na ya

jamaa zetu.

Basi kwa sababu hizo yatupasa kuhakikish‘a kwamba twa-
watunza sana. Tazama kwamba sikuzote wapata chakula cha
knmghn n2. maii baridi mengi valivo saﬁ kwa kunywa. Angalia

M A K 0 S A
Ukurasa Mstari
9 16
61 4

111UULU lllulxuu VJ uu‘J VJ ...........

YA GHJ‘APA

Ongeza maneno haya yenye heruﬁ
nyeusi:

Kulindwa na wanyama wakali wanao-
tafuta chakula pia

Badala ya “Mafuta ya Taa” tia Liquid
Parafﬁn yaani maneno ya Kiingereza
kwa dawa moga iliyo mfano wa mafuta.

NA TUJARIBU KUWAFANYA WANYAMA WETU WATA-

TAMBUE KUWA SISI NI MARAFIKI WAO NA YA KUWA

HATUTAWATUPA WALA KUWAACHA PEKE YAO KATIKA
MATESO

9

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Lesson 2.

\

’ THINGS WE SHOULD NOT DO

I. Do not beat or injure animals-this is cruelty.

2. Do not forget to give our animals food and water daily.
Ensure that their needs in this simple way are satisﬁed.

3. Do not neglect them when they are sick or injured. Treat them
carefully at home, or better still try and get some skilled veteri—
nary aid for them.

(Some simple ﬁrst aid hints are given in Lesson 12‘).

4. Do not overload donkeys, nor work them when they are sick
or suffering from sores.

5. Do not tie up any animal to a tree or other support, with a shOrt
piece of rope or wire, for long hours.

6. Do not leave animals tied up under the hot sun or in the pouring
rain. Give them shelter at all times.

 

//

Do not tie up a donkey nor in - - -
fact, any animal like’this USImfunge punda h'V' wala

mnly’ama awaye yote

 

 

 




 

 

 

10.
11.

12.
13.

SOMO LA 2
MAMBO YASIYOTUPASA KUYAFANYA

Usiwapige au kuwadhuru wanyama—huo ni ukatili.

U sisahau kuwapa wanyama wetu chakula na maji kila siku.

Angalia watimiziwe mahitaji katika njia rahisi hii. . ‘
Usiwatupe wanapokuwa wagonjwa au kujeruhiwa. Wati-
bu, kwa uangalifu nyumbani, au yafaa zaidi kuwatafutia
msaada bora wa dawa za wanyama. (Aina kadha wa

kadha za Huduma ya Kwanza zimetolewa katika Somo
la 12).

Usiwachukuze punda mizigo mizito mno, wala usiwafa-
nyishe kazi wawapo wagonjwa au wanapougua Vidonda.

Usimfunge mnyama ye yote penye mti au kitu kingine kwa
kamba fupi au waya kwa muda wa saa nyingi.

Usiwaache wanyama hali wamef'uﬂgwa penye jua kali au
katika mvua nyingi. Kila mara waweke kibandani.

Usiwaache wanyama nje wakati wa usiku bila ulinzi wa ku-
tosha. Wanyama wakali wa mwituni huzungukazunguka
usiku wakitafuta Chakula. Mara nyingi mnyama wa
nyumbani aweza kuumizwa Vibaya sana, kama hauawi
mara moja. Jambo hilo ni hasara kubwa kwa mwenye

mnyama.

Usikose kujenga boma imara au kibanda kwa wanyama
wako.

Usiwaharakishe wanyama katika safari ; waache waende
mwendo wanaouweza, hasa ng’ombe, mbuzi na k011doo.

Usiwafunge wanyama miguu kwa kukaza sana.

Usiwaachishe ndama kunyonya maziwa mpaka wawe wa-
kubwa wa kutosha kuweza kujilisha wenyewe.

Usiwaumize wala kuwatisha wanyama watakaochinjwa.

Usichinje wanyama wenye mimba. ~

11

 




.q‘

-r-i'tt‘ﬁiyiaz‘MA-ﬁirf @Lm‘ﬁ _«.;zzzmmm MM} . .. ul- '

F" 7-) i;r"‘:2‘°§r:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10.
.11.

12.

13.
14.

15.

16.

17.

'18.
19.
20.
i 21.
22.
23.

24.

25.

Do not leave animals outside at night without proper protection. . V

Wild animals roam at night looking for food. Often a do-
mestic animal can be seriously injured, if not killed outright.
This means a great loss to the owner.

Do not omit to build a good strong boma or shelter for your
animals. .

Do not hurry animals on safari let them take their time, especially
cattle, goats and sheep. ‘

Do not hobble animals tightly.

Do not take calves away from their mothers until they are old

enough to feed'themselves.

Do not hurt or frighten animals about to be slaughtered.

Do' not slaughter pregnant animals.

Do not abandon any animal, particularly a dog or a cat. If you
no longer want to keep your dog or cat, try to ﬁnd some kind
person to take it and give it a good home.

Do not beat or torture a dog or a cat in any way just because
it may have stolen food. If animals are well fed and kindly
treated, they will not steal. '

Do not trap nor cage wild birds, this is very cruel. It is their

right to be free. .

Do not use catapults. These cruel instruments can cause great
suffering and agony from injury. Also do not shoot birds with
air guns for sport. 7

Do not pack fowls into small baskets, nor again carry them up-
side down, nor by their wings.

Do not takefowls on long safaris unless they are in good, airy '”

crates with enough food and water for the journey.

Do not leave crates of fowls lying in the hot sun. Put some
leaves on top to give them protection.

Do not keep cattle in dirty bomas, especially in the rainy season.
Do not forget to milk cows at regular periods daily.

Do not set steel traps for wild animals. These traps can wound

them cruelly, and wild animals have a right to their freedom, free
from cruelty and suffering. "

Do not try to kill animals by cruel methods which cause them to
suffer pain. .

Finally, donot treat any animal or bird in any way in which
you would not like to be treated yourself. Animals and birds
feel pain and suffering just, as do human beings, and whereas
human belngs can speak out and help themselves, the animals
cannot do so, therefore it is our moral duty to help them.

12

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

'Usimtupe mnyama ye yote, hasa mbwa au paka. Iwapo

huhitaji tena kumtunza mbwa au paka wako, j‘aribu kumta-
futa mtu mwema awezaye kumchukua 11a kumpa makao
mazuri.

Usimpige wala kumtesa mbwa au paka'kwa hali yo yote kwa
sababu ameiba chakula. Kama wanyama wanalishwa na
kutendewa mema, hawataiba.

Usiwatege wala 'kuwatia ndege wa porini katika matundu;
huo ni ukatili mtupu. Ni haki yao kuwa huru.

Usiwapige ndege kwa manati. Silaha mbaya hizi zaweza
kuleta mate-so makali sana na usumbufu usio na kifani kwa
ajili ya kujeruhiwa. Aidha, usiwapige ndege kwa bunduki
kwa ajili ya kujifurahisha tu.

Usiwaweke kuku katika masusu au mat‘enga madogo, wala
usiwachukue Vichwa chini miguu juu wala kuwachukua
hali umewakamata mabawa.

Usiwachukue kuku safari ndefu isipokuwa wamawekwa
katika kitu chenye wingi wa hewa safi na chakula cha
kutosha 11a maji. '

Usiache Vitu vya kuchukulia kuku penye jua kali. Tia
majani juu ili kuwapatia kivuli.

Usiwaweke ng’ombe katika maboma machafu, hasa waka-
ti wa mvua.

Usisahau kumkama ng’ombe maziwa kila siku kwa wakati
wake maalum.

Usiwatege wanyama wa porini. Mitego hii yaWeza kuwa-
jeruhi Vibaya sana; wanyama wa porini nao wahayo haki
ya kuwa huru, yaani, uhuru wa kutotendewa ukatili au
kusumbuliwa.

Usijaribu kuua wanyama kwa njia ‘za kikatili zinazowaletea
maumivu makali.

Mwisho-we, usimtendee mnyama au ndege ye yote mambo
ambayo wewe mwenyewe usingependa kabisa kutendewa.
Wanyama na ndege huona maumivu kama sisi wanadamu.
Wanadamu waweza kusema na kujisaidia wenyewe, lakini
wanyama hawawezi kufanya hivyo; kwa hiyo, ni wajibu
wetu kuwasaidia. '

123..

 




‘w-'-‘-*:*'t-' .—» r: ‘1»- A.“ _ — , . ._. ..
1 _ _, 1-; ,4. Am a... _ -151 «.7 _ v _ . < _ _ _ _ 4 r ,7, “my. 4, _ . n- ._ -. A. A. r ,1“. ._-, . _ A . _ A
A ’rlm 1., “-14! a». {1“ -2“; x ,1 : n 2-..9 , _ 1. _ «4.3: f , ,:- .- _ «:AAr-‘At- ‘~ —A’:m." » 'V'v'w «’.' N ~' « "‘"7 '5“ " ""‘ ““" “ “NH“

r1- '1'.

4. 1‘ 1‘1

my“

4
if.
.‘, .
1:
.‘1 ‘ﬁ
I1;
1:.

f‘:
.j r

WWW». "5.3:

1 .EE'I-L'T'Xugziéi. ' f

—,—.-,

r \_ _.. .m‘.~‘§:1-V“‘.‘i-f‘

 

 

$93,?“

- .2 _¢< Ars'a ._5 ”a

Do not keep any animal unless you are prepared to care for it
in every waynecessary.

By paying attention to all the foregoing “DONT’S”, you will
discover a new interest in your animals, and one which will repay
you well. Well-cared for animals with shiny skins, bright eyes,
and strong muscles, are contented and happy creatures and a great
credit to their owners. The same may be said of birds or fowls,
shiny feathers and bright eyes mean health.

'In the following Lessons we learn something about how our
dilTerent animals can be cared for in a simple and natural way.

14

 

 

 




 

 

 

Usifuge mnyama ye yote isipokuwa kama u tayari kumtunza
katika hali inayohitajiwa.

Kwa kufuata makatazo hayo yote tuliyokwisha yasema, utajipa-
tia moyo mpya wa kuwapenda wanyama wako, ambao watakuru-
dishia au kukulipa mema halafu. Wanyama watunzwao vema,
wenye ngozi zing’aazo, macho safi, na musuli nguvu, huridhika na
kuwa wenye furaha na heshima kwa mabwana na mabibi zao. Ja-
mbo lilo hilo laweza kusemwa pia kwa ndege au kuku manyoya
yang’aayo na macho saﬁ ni alama ya afya.

Katika masomo yafuatayo, tutajifunza jinsi aina mbalimbali
za wanyama ziwezavyo kutunzwa katika njia rahisi na za kawaida.

15

 




. "{EETED'ZSEE'ZT A. I"

X

él
if; .
5-.
~11
it l
l“ w
m ;‘
l
t».
mg;
,, .,
y .
l

Lesson 3.

CATTLE

Our cattle mean wealth to us; it is therefore to our great advant-
age to care for them in the best possible way. ' Their welfare means
our welfare and that of our families. We therefore show them kind-
ness and consideration in the following ways. .

g 1. We must feed them well. See that they have plenty of
good grazing. It is particularly important to remember that in
times of drought the animals should be moved in good time to areas
where grazing is still plentiful. To wait until the grazing in the
usual area is dried up IS VERY BAD AND NEGLECTF UL and
leads to much hardship and suffering both for the animals who are
so dependent on care from their owners and for the owners them-
selves, who can in times of drought lose their animals through
sickness and starvation, thereby losing their own means of livelihood.
SO DON’T WAIT UNTIL IT IS TOO LATE to move animals to
" better areas.

Extra Feeding. It is a good plan to try and have a store of
extra food for use in times of drought. More root crops could be
grown and saved for the time when natural grazing becomes depleted.
Cattle like mealie (mihindi) stalks, or mealies themselves if there are
enough to spare. Mealie stalks might be stored .. or put into pits
well tramped down (silage). Prickly pears without thorns chopped up,
and mahogo, also make good extra feeding. In areas where Kikuyu
grass or lucerne can be grown it is a good idea to grow patches of
these; if out and stacked they will be ready in times of need. Cattle
require food all the year round if they are to remain in good healthy
condition and of the best value. Owners who really value and consider
their cattle will provide all means possible to keep them supplied
With food at all seasons. It is cruel to let the animals starve through
bad seasons and then expect them to work by drawing ploughS
when the ploughing time comes. Animals suffering from starvation
are weak and ill conditioned and havelittle strength for such hard work

' Keeping. more animals than the land can support should be guarded
against in areaswhere the grazing is poor and likely to become soon '
ﬁnished. Owners should concentrate in keeping only that number

 

l6

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

SOMO LA 3‘
NG’OMBE

Ng’ombe wetu ni mali kwetu; kwa hiyo ni faida kubwa kwetu
kuwatunza kwa namna iliyo bora s-ana. Hali yao njema 11diy0 hali
yetu njema pia na ya jamaa zetu. Kwa hiyo, tutawaonyesha huruma
ma kuwajali kwa njia zifuatazo. ’

1. Lazima T U WALISHE vema. Angalia ‘kwamba wanalpata
malisho mazuri ya kutosha. Ni jambo la maana hasa kukumbuk‘a
ya kuwa nyakati za kukosa mvua, wanyama yawapasa kuhamishwa
upesi na kupelekwa mahali pengine ambapo malisho mpaka wakati
huo yangali yaiiapatikana kwa wingi—kungoja mpaka malisho yame—
kwisha kabisa mahalipakawaida; NI VIBA YA SANA NA UZEMBE
PIA. Zaidi ya hayo j ambo hilo huleta shida nyin gi 11a masumbufu kwa
wanyama ambao wategemea utunzaji wa bwana zao na pia kwa hao
mabwana pia, ambao katika nyakati za kukosekana mvua waweza
kupoteza wanyama wao kwa ajili ya ugonjwa na njaa; hivyo, basi,
hupoteza njia za kujipatia riziki zao katika maisha. Basi Usingoje
mpaka umec'he/ewa mno kuwahamisha wanyama mahali bora zaidi'
wawezapo kupata malisho.

Kulisha Zaidi. Ni shauri hora kujaribu kuwa 11a akiba ya cha-
kula zaidi ili kitumiwe katika nyakati za kukosekana mvua. Mazao
ya mazizi zaidi yaweza kupandwa na kuwekwa akiba tayari kwa
nyakati ambazo malisho ya kawaida yamemalizwa. Ng’ombe
wapenda mabua ya mihindi au mahindi yenyewe kama yako ya
kutosha 11a kubaki. Mabua ya mahindi yaweza kuwekwa ghalani au
kuwetwa katika mashimo hali yamepondwapondwa' sana. Prickly
pears (nam na ya mmea wenye kuchoma bila miiba) uliokatwa vipande
vipande na muhogo, pia ni vyakula VinavyOfaa kwa kuongeza zaidiya
kile Cha kawaida watumiacho ng’ombe. Katika sehemu am’bazo nya-
si 221 Kikuyu au Lucerine (mmea wenye majani matatu katika kilakiko-
nyo) vyaweza kupandwa, ni shauri bora kuvilima katika maeneno
madogo madogo, kisha vikatwe na kulundikwa tayari kwa wakati
vitakapohitajiwa. Ng’ombe wahi’taji chakula mwaka mzima iwapo
watakiwa waendelee kuwa katika hali ya afya njﬁma {na wenye
thamani bora. Wenye ng’ombe ambao kwa kweli wanawathamini
ng’ombe wao na kuwaﬁkiria hali zao, watatumia njia zote zinazo—
wezekana ili wapatiwe chakula majira yote. Ni ukatili kuwaweka

l7

 




Wﬁ‘n‘ﬁ'rpﬁdﬁr: ~.,_--. vv-“rm a: :2 -. 3“. >.-r'-£->“:~=‘ a» v» - '"x' 'v ._,_ “ “7 *“ ”" A" ' '* “
.-.- xv): ~_:.:.-. " 4‘. .«v_’;:.:*.‘:.- --F-::;‘n~;r Ti‘LJ- xx "‘ :3 3g "-r..-'1:i .113 . .. ‘ ‘ ' * ‘4‘ ” ’ <‘ “1. "l” ' ' 7‘

gkﬁi“

‘5-3 W1“ -
321%.? ;- 12‘,

,l
, .
4‘:
:2»
if
'1
q
4.
V.
é.‘
,'
l'L
‘ .

. -!-‘;‘ ~

«6% ,

 

9.3:

_. V “a; .
.13).? 2..

~ <~ “’TTT‘T‘TW'
4 4. . :AAE :‘;.«_ '_ . ';'4. y‘-

 

7'773‘21‘}: 'r'w‘mwﬁsr“

of cattle that can be fed well and adequately and properly cared
for. In this way only can good healthy stock be ralsed.

2. WATER in plenty is essential for the health and well—being
of all cattle and here again the careful and considerate owner will
take steps to ensure that an adequate water supply is available. In.
areas where water is likely to dry up at various seasons owners should
do all possible to co-operate with each other in trying to ﬁnd a means
whereby a good water supply can be provided. The making of a
well might mean a little expense, but in the end it would be greatly

.worth the little expense and trouble entailed. It is not right to

imagine that cattle can do without water they all need water, but of
course if there is no water available they have to go without, and this
sometimes makes people think that they do not need it at all. This
is quite wrong. Fresh clean water daily will contribute in a large
way to the healthy condition of our animals.

3. Salt is another thing necessary for the animals. Cattle like
to lick salt and it is so good for them. Try to provide this very
simple necessity and it will give pleasure to owners to see how much
their animals appreciate it. ,

Owners of only a few cattle should have no difﬁculty in ensuring
adequate feeding and watering of their stock. It is a bigger respon-
sibility for owners with large herds to see that the animals are well
fed and watered, but it is to their own advantage to make certain
that the animals get all the care and attention required to keep them
in health and in proﬁtable condition.

From well cared for animals we can get much more meat, milk
and money, and also good manure for our shambas. We can also
get strong and healthy calves.

Things to remember when a cow is in calf :-

Do not drive her fast, nor make her walk far.

Give clean, dry shelter at night.

Give her extra food.

Do not make her work in any way.

Do not sell her unless you are sure she will be well cared for.
Do not hobble her tightly.

See that she is de-ticked properly when she cannot be dipped.
When the calf comes see that it gets ENOUGH MILK to make

it grow well and strong. DO NOT take it from the mother until it
18 old enough to feed 1tself. It is a very bad thing to take calves

from their mothers too soon, for the sake of perhaps selling the .

18

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

wanyama katika hali ya njaa katika maj-ira mabaya kisha kuwataza-
mia wafanye kazi kwa kukokota maplau wakati wa kutumia‘ maplau
shambani ujapo. Wanyama wanaoteseka kwa njaa ni dhaifu wala
hawana nguvu za kutosha kwa kufanya kazi ngumu kama hiyo.
Kufuga wanyama wengi zaidi kuliko ardhi inavyoweza kuwalisha
kwapasa kuepukwa katika sehemu zenyemalisho haba na zinazoelekea
kuwa malisho yenyewe yatamalizwa upesi. Wenye ng’ombe yawa—
pa‘sa kufuga jumla ile ambayo yaweza kulishwa vema na kwa kiasi
cha kutosha na kutunzwa vema; katika njia hii tu ndi‘yo mfu go bora
wenye afya waweza kupatikana.

2. MAJI mengi ni lazima kwa afya na ustwawi wa ng’ombe
wote, na hapo tena, mwenye ng’ombe ambayo ni mwangalifu na
mwenye kuwaﬁkiriria hali yao ataanza kuhakikisha kw amba maji
ya kutosha yana‘patikana. Katika sehemu ambazo zaelekea maji
kukauka katika majira mbalimbali, wenye ng’ombe yawapasa kute-
nda yote wawezayo kushirikiana katika kujaribu kutafuta njia 2a
kupata maji mengi ya kutosha. Labda kurchimba kisima kutaleta
gharama kidogo, lakini mwishowe gharama hiyo italeta faida kubwa
bila kujali gharama yenyewe. Si haki kufikiri ya kuwa ng’ombe
wasipopata maji ni mamoja kwao; wote wahitaji maji, lakini bila
Shaka kama hakupatikani maji, hapo hakuna 1a kutenda ila lazima
waendelee Vivyo hivyo, na jambo hilo pengine huwafan‘ya watu
waﬁkiri ng’ombe hawahitaji maji kamwe. Hilo ni kosa kabisa.
Maji baridi safi kila siku yatawaletea wanyama wetu afya njema.

3. ChumVi ni kitu kingine ambacho chahitajiwa na'wanyama
hawa. Ng"0mbe wapenda kulamba chumvi nayo yawafaa sana.
Jaribu kuwatimizia haja hiyo iliyo ndogo sana na wenye ng’ombe
watafurahi kuona jinsiwanavyoipenda mno.

Wale wenye ng’ombe wachache tu haiwapasi kuona shida ya
kuhakikisha kuipatia mifugo yao chakula na maji ya kutosha. Ni
daraka kubwa kWa wenye ng’ombe au makundi makubwa kuona
kwamba wanyama wao walishwa vema na kupa‘tiwa maji na kutosha,
lakini ni kwa faida yao wenyewe kuhakikisha kwamba wanyama
wao hao wanapata utunzaji wote na kuangaliwa ili wapa‘te kuwa na
afya na kuleta faida.

Kutoka kwa wanyama wanaotunzwa vema twaweza kupata
nyama nyingi zaidi, maziwa na fedha, pia na mbolea nzuri kwa
mashamba yetu. Pia twaweza kupata ndama wenye nguvu na afya.

Mambo ya kukumbuka wakati ng’ombe anapokuwa na
ndama :-

Usimfukuze kwa kasi, wala kumfanya aende mbali.

19

 




 

 

mother’s milk. It will. repay us so very much more to let the calf have
all the mother’s milk .it needs until it is well on the way to growing
up strong and healthy. THIS POINT CANNOT BE STRESSED
TOO MUCH. ' . .

If all the foregoing simple and natural instruction is given due
consideration the animals will be kept in good condition and con—
sequently be of much more value to us and our families.

Other things regarding health to remember:

Dipping is good and necessary for cattle as this helps to keep
them free from disease.

At the ﬁrst sign of any sickness try to get skilled veterinary.
attention immediately, for in this way we may be able to arrest any
serious sickness or disease, thereby saving the life of our animal.
Also it is important to remember that if an animal shows any sign
of. sickness it should be separated at once from the other animals.
Keep it in a clean, dry place by itself until the sickness has been
properly diagnosed. in this way the other animals may be prevented
from catching the sickness should it be of a bad kind.

If an animal gets injured in any way, or perhaps breaks a limb,
do all possible to care for it. Do not try to make it walk; rest it

quietly. By taking this simple precaution its life and value may be
preserved.

It is good to keep some useful antiseptic dressing handy, such
as Dettol,‘ for the treatment of sores and wounds, for by this means
serious sickness from neglected wounds may be prevented. A mild
solution of salt and warm water is very good for washing wounds,
if no other dressing is available.

Another important thing to remember is that the hides of cattle
are valuable, and if an animal is beaten, apart from the cruelty aspect, '
the hides may be spoiled and their value lowered. Cut or bruised
hides are worth little compared with those of kindly treated animals.
Webbing sticks should be used for driving cattle or other animals.

When branding has to be done, take care that this is done humane-
ly and quickly. Do not allow the animal to be tortured in the
process as this may possibly lead to loss of good condition through
the state of fear and suffering which the animal experiences.

Cows should be milked twice daily at regular times. Neglect
to do thls can cause the animals great discOmfort. See that hands

are clean for milking as this all helps to keep the cow healthy and
the mllk clean. ‘

20

 

 

 




 

 

Wakati wa usiku mpatie mahali saﬁ 11a pakavu ambapo pata-
weza kumkinga 11a myua 11a hatari yo yote.

Mpe chakula zaidi.

Usimfaninishe kazi kwa 11Jia yo yote.
Usimwuze isipokuwa una hakika atatunzwa V6111a.
Usimfunge mguu kwa k’umkasa hata kumwumiza.

Angalia kwamba atolewa kupe kwa namna inayofaa wakati
hawezi kuogeshwa dawa.

Ndama azaliwapo angaiia kwamba. apata Maziwa ya kumsha
kumfanya akue vema 11a 111wenye nguvu. Usimienge na mama
yake mpaka amepa’ta umri wa kutosha kuweza‘ kujilisha mwenyewe.
Ni jambo baya sana kuwatenganisha ndama 11a mama zao mapema
111110, kwa sababu ya, labda, kuuza maziwa ya mama yakeltatuletea
faida kubwa sana tukimwacha 11dama apate maziwa yote anayoya-
hitaJ'i ya mama yake mpaka atakapokuwa anakua hali y mwenye
11 guvu 11a afya. HQ/a hii liaiwezi kukazwa mm).

Kama mafundisho 111epesi 11a ya kawaida yaliyotolewa kwa
makini, Wanyama watatiwa katika hali 11jema 11a hapo juu ya-
kifuatwa, wanyama hao watakuwa katika hali 11Jema; hivyo,
watakuwa 11a thamahi kwetu sisi 11a kwa J'amaa. zetu.

Mambo mengine ya kukumbuka juu ya afya:

Kuwaogesha ng’Ombe dawa ni janibo jema na la lazima maana
kunawasaidia katika kuepukaha 11a magonjwa.

Inapocnekana dalili ya kwanza ya ugonjwa W0 wote jaribu
kupata 111saada wa mabwana waganga wa 11g’0mbe kwa haraka,
maana kwa 11Jia hii twaweza kuuzuia ugonjwa wo wote wa hatari
hivyo tutaokoa. maisha ya 11.111yama wetu. Pia 111 jambo la maana
kukumbuka ya kuwa kama mnyama akionyesha dalili yo yote ya
ugonjwa yampasa kutengwa upesi 11a wanyama wengi11e.Mweke
peke yake mahali saﬁ pakavu mpaka ugo11jwa wenyewe umapimwa
11a kujulikana. Kwa 11Jia hi1 wanyama wengine waweza kuzuiwa
wasiambukizwe ugoana huo kama 11i wa namna mbaya.

Kama 11111yama akiJeruhiwa kwa 11Jia yo ycte, au labda amevu-
nJika kiu11go,fa11ya yote uwezayo kumtunza. UsiJaribu kumfanya
aende; mpumzishe kimya. Kwa kufuata shauri hili 1ahisi maisha
yake 11a thamani yaweza kudumishwa.

Ni V6111a kuwa 11a akiba ya dawa inayofaa karibu, kama Vile
Dettol, kwa kutibia Vidonda 11a majeraha, maana kwa 11Jia hii
mbaya unaotokana 11a 111ajeraha yasiyojaliwa yaweza kuzuiwa.

71

‘-

 




4»: =m7

 

if“ ~
cask

=7; 5:7; :rmww

ﬁzﬁT—Vf’ﬁ‘j? i_
. 1 2?: 7 ,.vv.

Q»:- "

 

«17:4.7‘ :7 1141' :1 . .»_ .—=. .5, ‘ ~ ,, H
A 42‘“ r.» A A», « ; _. ‘ ; “v.5?" -'i"<:.'1~" _,— ad." _‘_ w

mlg': Sci-33¢:

Remember that the manure from cattle is excellent for the
shamba, and if the cattle are kept in clean, dry bomas (with shelter
from the rain) the manure can be easily gathered and will prove of
great value for our crops.

Finally, when an animal has to be killed for food, see that this
is done QUICKLY AND HUMANELY. Do not torture with a
slow and painful death, this is very cruel and also lessens the quality
and value of the meat.

22

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Mchanganyo mdogo wa chumvi na maji ya uvuguvugu hufaa sana
kwa kusaﬁshia Vidonda, iwapo utabibu mwingine haupatikani.

Jambo jingine 1a maana 1a kukumbuka ni kwamba ngozi za
ng’ombe zina thamani kama mnyama akipigwapigwa, mbali tukitoa
hoja ya ukatili kwa kitendo hicho, ngozi zenyewe zaweza kuharibiwa
na thamani yake .hupungua. Ngozi zilizokatWa au kuchubuliwa
zina thamani ndogo tu zikilinganishwa na zile za wanyama wanaote-
ndewa huruma.

Ikiwa ng’ombe wapekwa mahali pengine, tum‘ia aina ya
jimbo iliyokuwa haini ili wasi'umizwe.

Ikiwa ni lazima kuwatia ng’ombe alama, angalia kwamba ja-
mbo lenyewe latendwa kwa huruma tena kwa upesi. Usimwache
mnyama ateseke wakati wa kumtia alama hivyo maana jambo hilo
laweza kuleta ukoSefu wa hali njema kwa ajili ya hali ya woga na
kuteseka kwa mnyama mwenyewe.

Ng’ombe yawapasa kukamwa maziwa mara mbili kila siku
katika nyakati zile zile maalum. Kukosa kutenda hivyo kwaweza
kuwaletea wanyama hao taabu kubwa. Angalia kwamba mikono
yako n'i saﬁ kwa kukama maziwa maana yote haya yasaidia kumfanya
ng’ombe awe mwenye afya na maziwa yenyewe kuwa saﬁ.

Kumbuka ya kuwa samadi ya ng’ombe yafaa sana kwa rutuba
ya shamba, na kama ng’ombe wakifugwa katika maboma saﬁ na
makavu (yenye kinga za mvua) samadi yenyewe yaweza kukusanywa
kwa urahisi nayo yatakuwa na thamani kubwa kwa mazao yetu.
Mwishowe, iwapo mnyama ni lazima achinjwe kwa ajili ya chakula,
angalia kwamba latendwa Upesi na kwa huruma. Usimtese mnya-
ma kwa kumﬁsha taratibu na katika hali ya maumivu; kutenda
hivyo ni ukatili mtupu na pia kwapunguza ubora na thamani ya
nyama yenyewe.

23

 




 

 

 

 

Lesson 4.
DONKEYS

Our donkeys are ﬁne little animals, and so hardworking and

uncomplaining; patient, and so ready to carry our burdens for us,
also to draw carts and wagons and to pull our ploughs. For this
reason they are of much value to us and they deserve the best care
and attention possible.
Things that donkey owners should remember:
1. They need good feeding and plenty of fresh, clean water
daily.
2. They should not be worked for more than SIX hours per
day; they should be allowed to graze and rest for the
. remainder of the day, i.e. if they work from 7 am. until 1
pm. they should then be allowed to graze and rest.

t W”,

 

The good and the bad way 'of Ni ' "
treating our willing helper, - 12a "ﬁgxatgadgéiaralgsgya
the donkey. yetu punda I

 

 

 




 

 

 

SOMO LA 4
PUNDA

Punda wetu ni wanyama wazuri, tena wanafanya kazi sana
bila kunung’unika au kulalamika; wako tayari kutuchukulia mizigo
yetu, pia na kutukokotea magari na maplau yetu. Kwa sababu hiyo
wana thamani sana kwetu, nao wanastahili utunzaji bora 11a kuanga-
lriwa sana kama inavyowezekana. -

Mambo ambayo yapasa kukumbukwa na wenye pundaz-

1. Wahitaji kulishwa sana na maji ya baridi yaliyo saﬁ kila siku.

2. Wasifanyizishwe kazi kwa muda wa zaidi ya saa sitavkila

siku; yapasa waachiliwe kulisha na kupumzika kwa sehe-
mu iliyobaki ya siku, yaani, kama wakifanya kazi kutoka
saa 1 ya asubuhi mpaka saa 7 adhuhuri au mchana, basj
wakati huo yapasa kuachiliwa kulisha na kupumzika.

3. Kama wakiwa na lijamu kwa kukokota magari au maplau,
angalia kwamba lijamu yenyewe ni laini na imetengene-
zwa vema ama sivyo Vidonda Vitaanza na hivyo vyaweza
kuwaletea mnyama afya mbaya kama mwenyewe mnyama
hajali kitu. ‘ - .

4. Usitengeneze "lijamu iliyoharibika kwa kuitia Vipande vya
uzi wa chuma wala madini yo yote maana hiyo yaweza
kuleta Vidonda Vibaya sana na vitazua maumivu makali
sana.

5. Kama punda akitumiwa kwa kuch‘ukua mizigo, angalia
kwamba chini ya mzigo wenyewe pana gunia bora laini
kulinda mgongo wake, na uhakikishe kwamba mzigo we-
nyewe ni wa uzani ulio sawa kila upande.

'6. Angalia sana usimtwishe punda mzigo mzito mno kupita
kiasi chake. Inahurumisha sana kumwona punda mdogo
akipepesuka huko na huko, akienda kwa shida sana, kwa
ajili ya kuchukua mizigo mikubwa ya mawe, mchanga au
mbata. Pengine wenye punda, ambao ni watu wajinga,
huongeza uzito wa mzigo kwa kukaa juu ya mzigo mzima!
Tendo hilo ni 1a ukatili mtupu wala haliruhusiwi. Punda
asichukue zaidi ya ratli 160 kwa safari ndefu. Kwa safari
2a ka'ribu kadiri ya ratli 200 zawaza kuchukuliwa, lakini
Siyo pamoja na mwenyewe kukaa juu yake, hasha.

25

 




+2:

I:
3
i
l
K

:72:

4 ~7._...—.».. «imahmsgﬁ—q ‘

._. __": -|'e

 

.382‘132’5‘

   

7173:; 9; ﬂu." 4' 22:73. 'Sm-v W L “5;. 3‘3: 1 .

n -2‘:.a:"’i TEMWN‘EW‘.

'i «trim-33;

 

10.

If they wear harness for drawing carts or ploughs, see that
it is soft and well-made otherwise sores will start and this
may cause il‘-health to the animal if neglected.

Never mend the harness with pieces of wire as this can cause
very bad sores and will give much pain.

If the donkey is used for carrying loads, see that there is

good, soft sacking under the pack to protect the back,
and be sure to see that the load is evenly balanced half on

each side.

' Be very careful not to overload the donkey. It is very sad

to see a small donkey staggering along, hardly able to
walk, under enormous loads of stones, sand or copra.
Sometimes the ignorant and inconsiderate owner adds to
the burden by sitting on top of the whole load! This is very
cruel and it is not allowed. A donkey should not carry
more than "160 lbs on long safari: For short safaris about
200 lbs could be carried, but never with the owner on top
as well. .

Never hobble a donkey tightly with a short or hard piece
of rope. The best thing for hobbling is a soft, broad piece
of webbing or a pliable strap of leather. If the animal is
hobbled too tightly it will be liable to fall down, and then
of course, injury can result.

Never work a donkey when he seems lame for this will only
make the condition so bad that he will be unable to work
at all. If any lameness is apparent, rest the animal until
it is ﬁt again; this simple precaution will repay the owner
in the long run. ' .

It is a wise man who knows how to take care of his
donkey.

If the donkey has to wait some little time between loads
during the working hours, slip off his harness or pack to
give him some rest; he will work so much better for this
small consideration. Let him roll in the sand and have a
bit of grazing at one end of a safari; this will refresh him
for the return safari.

Never tie him up for long hours under the hot sun, or in the
rains. Give him a long rope if he must be tied at times,
and ALWAYS GIVE HIM SHELTER.

26

 




10.

11.

Usimfunge punda kwa kumkaza kwa kamba fupi au ngumu.

‘ Kitu kifaacho zaidi kwa kumfunga ni kipande laini na

kipana cha nguo au kipande laini cha ngozi. Kama mnyama
akifungwa kwa kumkaza sana kupita kiasi atakuwa katika
hatari ya kuanguka, na hapo tena bila Shaka dhara laweza
kutokea.

Usimtumikishe punda anapoonekana ana kilema ama sivyo
tendo hilo litaifanya hali yake iwe mbaya mno‘ hata asiweze
kufanya kazi tena hata kidogo. Kxama hali yo yote ya
kilema yaOnekana ipo, mpumzishe mnyama mwenyewe
'mpaka awe mzima kabisa tena-hadhari hii ndogo itampatia
faida mwenye punda. '

Ni mtu mwenye hekima ndiyo ajuaye kumtunza punda
wake. ‘

Kama ni lazima punda angoje kidogo kati ya mizigo wakati
wa saa za kufanya kazi, mwondoe lijamu yake au mzigo ili
apumzike kidogo—kwa kuﬁkiriwa hivyo kidogo tu atafa—
nya kazi vema zaidi.

Mwache ajivingirishe mchangani na kulisha majani
kidogo kwenye mwisho wa safari—~jambo hilo litamburu-
disha na kumtia nguvu kwa safari ya kurudi.

Kabisa usimfunge kwa saa ndefu chini ya jua kali, au mvua-
ni. Kama nyakati nyingine in lazima afungwe, basi
mfunge kwa kwa kamba ndefu, na sikuzote mweke
mahal 1' ambapo'awéza kukingwa na jua, mvua na mengineyo
yaweza yo .kumdhuru.

Tusiwaache punda ‘wetu nje na bila kulindwa wakati wa
usiku ambapo Wanyama wakali wa mwituni huzunguka-
zunguka maana waweza kuwashambulia, na hasa kama
mnyama mwenyewe amefungwa, iko nafasi ndogo sana
ya kuweza kujipigania wakati huo wa kushambuliwa.

Kama wamthamini raﬁki yake mwema, punda, na
yakupasa umthamini afanyapo kazi kwa juhudi sana ili

‘ kukusaidia, angalia amepatiwa banda bora na ulinzi nyakati

zote, na hasa usiku. Mara nyingi simba wazee huzunguka-
zunguka karibu na Vijiji wanapojua itakuwa rahisi kuka-
mata mnyama anayefungwa kwa kujipatia chakula, maana
wao hawawezi kwenda mbali sana kwa kujipatia mawindo.
Hasa punda na ng’ombe, mara nyingi hupata majeraha

27

 




 

 

ll.

l3.

14.

15.

We should never leave our donkey, or donkeys, outside and
unprotected at night where wild animals on the prowl can
get at them, especially if the donkey is tied up there can. be
little chance of putting up a defence from attack. If you
value your. good friend, the donkey, and you should value
him when he works so hard to help you, see that proper
provision is made for shelter and protection at all times,
and particularly at night. Old lions often prowl near
villages where they know it will be easy to catch some
domestic animal for a meal as they are unable to go very ,
far to kill. Donkeys and cattle, in particular, often receive
bad wounds from attack by old lions, and although they
may escape being killed outright, they can suffer greatly
from wounds.

We must see to our donkeys” hooves regularly and ensure
that they are level and even. Through neglect the hooves
of a donkey can become very misshapen and this will hinder
him walking properly; therefore working days will become
limited and ﬁnally cease altogether if he cannot walk.

Do not beat, nor cause any injury to your donkey. Never
drive him fast. Let him take his time.

If a donkey gets sores these should be washed with a solution
of salt and warm water. Afterwards some healing ointment
should. be gently rubbed in and the animal kept out of direct
sunlight. Zinc ointment is a useful thing to keep if you
own animals. Dettol, too, is a very useful antiseptic to
keep by you, it helps to keep flies away from wounds; -
If used. carefully, i.e. a teaspoonful to a large cup of water,
you will ﬁnd that a small bottle will last for a long while.

Ticks should be removed daily and destroyed immediately,
and the coat brushed with a good. hard brush. A wash
once a week with Kerol or Gammatox, according to direc—

tions, will help to keep animal free from ticks and other
harmful pests.

A healthy, well—kept donkey should have bright eyes
and shiny skin. No ticks, sores or lameness should be
seen: ’We must do all possible to ensure that the who“3
condition of the animal is good, then we will get good work
and good value in return. It will repay us \vpell to give
this simple care and attention.

28




12.

14.

15.

16.

mabaya wakatir wanaposhambuliwa na simba wazee, na
mgawa waweza kuepuka wasiuawe mara moja, waweza
kuumia sana kwa majeraha; ‘

Mara kwa mara hatuna budi kuangalia kwato‘ za punda
wetu ili kuhakikisha kama zimekaa sawa kabisa. Kutojali
jambo hilo, kwato za punda zaweza kupotoka na jambo
hilo litamzuia asiende vema; kwa hiyo siku za kazi Zita-
pungua na mwishowe iwe ndio basi iwapo hataweza tena
kwenda. '

Usimpige punda wako wala kumletea dhara 10 lote. Usi-
mwendeshe kasi kamwe. Mwache aende kwa namna
anavyoweza.

Kama punda akiwa nu vidonda, hivi vya‘pasa kuoshwa kwa
tmchanganyiko wa chumvi 11a maji ya uvuguvugu, baadaye
dawa ya mafuta ya kupaka iitiwe polepole na mnya‘ma
mwenyewe aondolewe kutoka katika nuru kali ya jua.
Mafuta ya zinki 'ni kitu kinachofaa kuwa nacho kwa ajili
ya wanyama wako. “Dettol” pia ni dawa sana, nayO
yazuia Vkuoza kwa vidonda, na husaidia kufukuza 'nzi wasi-
tue penye Vijeraha. Kama ikitumiwa kwa uangalif u, yaani,
kadiri ya kijiko .kimoja cha chai cha “dettol” kwa kuchanga-
nywa na kikombe kimoja cha maji, utaona ya kuwa chupa
ndogo itadumu siku nyingi.

Kupe yapasa' waondolewe kila siku na kuuawa upesj, na
ngozi isuguliwe kwa burashi nzuri iliyo ‘ngumu. K’uoshwa
mara moja ‘kilajuma kwa dawa iitwayo Kerol au Gammatox,
kwa kufuata maagizo, kutasaidia kum’linda :mnyama na
kupe na wadudu wengine wenye madhara. ,

Punda mwenye afya na kutunzwa vema yampasa awe,
11a macho saﬁ na ngozi. inayong’aa. Pasionekana kupe
vidonda wala kulemaa k0 kote. Hatuna budi kutenda
yote kuhakiksha kwa kila njia ya kuwa hali yote ya mnyama
ni njema, ndipo atatufanyia kazi nzuri na faida nzuri.
Kwa' kumtunza mnyama kwa urahisi 11a kumwangalia
namna hii tutapata faida kubwa, kuwa malipo yetu.

Wakati malisho yanapokuwa haba, jaribu kumpatia chaku-
1a kingine kama‘vile mahindi yaliyotwangwa au kitu kingine
ChO Chote uwezacho kukipata. Si tendo la huruma kufuga

‘punda wa kukusaidia kazi iwapo huwezi kumtimizia mahi-

taji yake ya lazima ili awe na afya na kustawi.

29

 




. »-:¢<. A: r_<_:‘;<.

”3-3,- . -.

7 I’l'Lg-‘E‘ag "'5?“

aw mMn‘

 

~mmm
. .._ "a.“fw—m—r W“

€5.15“

 

mzmrgm:mmmﬁ

a“

 

16..

17.

At times when grazing is poor, try and give an extra ration
of crushed maize or anything else you are able to procure.
It is not kind to keep a donkey to help you with your work
if you cannot undertake to provide the simple necessities
for his health and well-being.

Donkeys usually like to drink towards evening when
the work is done, so do ensure that plenty of. fresh clean
water is available, a sc00ped-out tree trunk makes an
excellent drinking trough and, set at a place where the
animals know where to ﬁnd it, it will give pleasure to the
considerate owner to see how the animals appreciate the
water provided for them.

Finally, if the donkey seems ill, and you can always tell by
such signs as dull eyes, falling hair and general listlessness,
take him to the nearest veterinary post at once. The sick-
ness may be from one of the several commOn causes of
animal sickness in Africa, ﬂy sickness or tick fever being
very prevalent. If skilled veterinary aid is obtained as
quickly as possible there will be a good chance of saving
the animal’s life. The loss of a donkey may mean serious
hardship to an owner. Guard against this misfortune by
ensuring the simple daily care and attention so necessary
to the health and well-being of the animals.

THE GOOD OWNER IS KIND TO ALL HIS BEASTS

3o,

 

,,,:_,_ -Mr._.~— _._.__




 

 

Kwa kawaida, punda hupenda kunywa maji nyakati za
jioni :baada ya kufanya kazi; kwa hiyo, hakikisha kuwa
maji baridi yaliyo saﬁ yapo tayari wakati wote. Gogo
1a mti lililokombwa ni chombo bora kwa kunywea maji, na
mahali ambapo wanyama hao wajua pa kuyapata, itampe-
ndeza mwenye wanyama, anayewaﬁkiria hali zao, kuona
jinsi wanavyoyapenda maji waliyopatiwa.

17. Mwishowe, kama punda aonekana mgonjwa, 11a sikuzote
waweza kujua kwa dalili kama Vile za macho mazito,
kuanguka manyoya na ulegevu, mpeleke upesikwa waganga
wa wanyama walio karibu. Asili ya ugonjwa huu yaweze-
kana kuwa ile ya kawaida inayopatikana katika Afrika-
ulioenea sana vzaidi ni ugonjwa wa nzi au homa ya kupe.
Kama msaada maalum wa uganga wa wanyama utapatikana
upesi kadiri inavyowezekana, kutakuwa na nafasi nzuri ya
kuokoa maisha ya mnyama mwenyewe. Kumpoteza
punda kwaweza kuleta usumbufu mwingi kwa mwenyewe.
Jihadhari na bahati mbaya hii kwa kuhakikisha kuwa
unamtunza mnyama wako kila siku na kumwangalia,‘
jambo ambalo ni 1a muhimu kwa afya na ustawi wa
wanyama.

MTU MWEMA ANA HURUMA KWA WANYAMA WAKE

31

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Lesson 5.

GOATS AND SHEEP

Goats

Goats are kept in large numbers in Africa and many owners

seem to imagine that these animals can live on any old scraps and
‘ rubbish that can be picked up. This is not really so, although goats
do like to wander along roads and round about houses picking up
all sorts of odds and ends; they actually resort to this kind of feeding
. when they are neglected by their owners. Strong, healthy goats
require good grazing like any other animal, and every owner should.
ensure good and adequate grazing for them if he values them at all.
If an owner does not value his goats he should not keep them.

Goats should be herded out to good grazing daily, and allowed
to graze for at least seven hours at a time. Well-fed goats are healthy
and command good prices when sold for food. Also she-goats

give rich and plentiful. milk when properly fed; goat milk is very good
for babies.

Goats should have plenty of clean water to drink every day,
and if owners make sure of having a drinking trough near the house,
the animals will thank him for it. A trough is easily made and
should be kept ﬁlled with fresh water every day.

Goats should be kept in a clean, dry, sheltered place like all
other domestic animals. They do not like to lie on wet, dirty ground,
in any case this can cause sickness.

Do not tie your goats up for long hours on short pieces of rope,
they need plenty of exercise. If they must be tied up at times to
keep them from wandering, give them a long rope so that they can
lie down. comfortably or graze as they like.

Do not beat or kick your goats, treat them kindly.

Regular dipping is good for goats and helps to keep them
healthy. '

Dips are easily made at home by scooping out the trunk of a
tree, and every animal owner should have one, or several owners
could share a dip if any expense is incurred in the making.

32




‘0’

SOMO LA 5

MBUZI NA KONDOO

Mbuzi

Mbuzi wanafungwa kwa wingi katika Afrika na wengi wenye
mbuzi hufikiri ya kuwa wanyama hawa waweza kuishi kwa kula
Vipande Vya makombo na takataka ziwezazo kuokotwa. Hivyo
Sivyo ilivyo, ingawa mb‘uzi hupenda sana k‘qtembeatembea bara-
barani. na kuzunguka nyumba wakiokota kila aina ya takataka;
kwa kweli hujilisha namna hii wakati wasipojaliwa na wenyewe.
Mbuzi wenye 11guvu na afya wahitaji malisho mazuri kama mnyama
mwingine ye yote, na kila mwenye wanyama hao yampasa awapatie
malisho mazuri na ya, kutosha kama akiwathamini. Kama mwenye-
we hawathamini mbuzi wake, basi asiwafuge kamwe.

Yapasa :mbuzi wapelekﬁ/e nje kwa malisho kilasik'u, tena
waachwe huko kwa muda usiopungua saa saba kila mara.’ Mbuzi
wanaolishwa vema wana afya na bei‘ yao huwa nzuri. wauzwapo
kwa ajili ya chakula. Kadhalika na mbuzi jike, hutoa maziwa
mengi wakilishwa vema; maziwa ya mbuzi yawafaa sana watoto

wachan ga .

Mbuzi yawapasa kupewa maji saﬁ mengi kila siku, na kama
wenyewe wana hakika kwamba wana chombo kikubwa Cha kuwa

.wekea maji, karibu na nyumba, wanyama hao watamshukuru kwa

ajili hiyo, Chombo hicho cha kuwekea :maji hutengenezwa‘ kwa
urahisi nacho chapasa kijazwe maji kila siku.

Yapasa mbuzi wawekwe mahali saﬁ pakavu wasipoweza kupi-
gwa na jua wala mvua kama wanavyotendewa wanyama wengine
wote wanaofugwa. Hawapendi kulala juu ya ardhi iliyo chepechepe
na chafu; kwa vyo vyote, hali hiyo yaweza kuleta magonjwa.

Usiwafunge mbuzi wako kwa Vipande vifupi vya kamba kwa
saa ﬂyingi, wahitaji kwenda huko na huko mahali walipo kwa
manufaa ya kutia nguvu vjungo vyao. Kama ni lazima nyakati
nyingine wafungwe ili wasitembee huko na hu'lgo, wafunge kwa
kamba ili waweze kulala Chini kwa raha au kulisha kama wapenda~
Vyo.

Usiwapige mbuzi wako kwa mchapo wa namna yo yote wala
kuwapiga mateke—watendee kwa huruma. -

33

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Sheep

Much the same method used for the care of goats should be
used by owners of sheep. Fat, healthy sheep commar‘l‘ﬁ excellent
prices and it is a really simple matter for the .good sheep owner to
see that his ﬂock gets the best care and attention possible. In this
way he makes sure of their good value when the time comes to sell.
Poor, thin and starved looking animals are of little value to their
owners, but healthy well-conditioned animals can always command
good prices, both for their meat value and their skins.

Do not let your sheep wander unattended otherwise dogs and
other animals can get at them. Sheep are supposed to have very
little intelligence but they do know that they require food and
water to keep them ﬁt and well. Sheep are liable to various diseases
of the skin. When such a thing is detected, the owner should at once
report to the veterinary post for skilled advice. Sheep also get
worms easily and owners should take care to prevent this by giving
suitable worm remedies, and also suitable medicine to get rid of
worms if already present. It is very unwise to allow such a condition
in sheep to be neglected.

A careful and considerate owner will see that he makes a good
strong boma to protect his ﬂock, especially for night protection.

At shearing time be very careful to see that the skin underneath
the fleece is not cut; this can leave nasty wounds and cause suffering

to the animal. Shear carefully and quickly. When a sheep has,

to .be killed do so humanely and quickly so as not to cause fear and
pain.

See that ewes have extra good grazing; when they have lambs
they require a lot of good feeding.

Do not separate the lambs from their mothers until they are
old enough to help themselves.

34

 

 

N”
~J,‘—__~’_‘.__———~ __ _ ,_-w———va‘u/—-A ._~ ”—4——
i

 




 

 

 

 

. Kuwaogesha mbuzi dawa kwa utaratibu kwawafaa, nako
kunawasaidia kuwaweka katika hali ya afya. Viogesho hutengene-
zwakwaurahisi nyumbanikwa kukomba shina 1a mti,na kila mwenye
mnyama yampasa awe ni kimoja, ua watu kadha wa kadha waweza
kushirikiana wakatumia kimoja iwapo kutakuwa na gharama yo
yote katika kukitengeneza.

KONDOO.

Njia ile ile itumiwayo kwa kuwatunza mbuzi, yapasa pia
itumiwc kwa wenye kondoo. Kondoo wanonQ na wenye afya
huuzwa kwa bei nzuri sana na hakika ni jambo rahisi kwa mwenye
kondoo kuangalia wanyama weka watunzwe vema kadiri inavyo-
wezekana, na hivi ahakikishe thamani yao njema wakati wa kuuzwa
utakapowadia. ~Wanyama wanaoonekana kuwa katika hali ya
kukonda na njaa hawawafaidii sana wenyewe; lakini wanyama
wenye hali njema waweza kuuzwa. kwa be_i bora sikuzote, kwa ajili
ya nyama na ngozi zao. Usiwaache kondoo wako kutangatanga
huko na huko bila kuchungwa ama' sivyo mbwa na wanyama we-
ngine waweza kuwashambulia. Kondoo wadhaniwa kuwa busara
kama mbuzi, lakini wanajua ya kuwa wanahitaji chakula na maji
ili‘wa’we katika hali njema. Kondoo wana'hatasri ya ‘kupatwa na
magonjwa mbalimbali ya ngozi. Jambo kama hilo likigu‘nduliwa,
mwenyewe yampasa kupeleka habari mara moja kwenye kilindo cha
uganga wanyama ili akapewe shauri 1a kumfaa. Kadhalika kondoo
hupata michango kwa urahiisi na yampasa mwenyewe aangalie ku-
zuia jambo hilo kwa kutoa dawa za michango zinazofaa, na pia
kupata dawa za kufaa kuondoa michango iwapo imekwisha kuingia
tumboni. Ni upumbavu kabis-a kuacha hali hiyo katika kondoo bila
kutunzwa.

Mwenye busara 211in na kondoo na ambaye ni mwangalifu
atajishughulisha na kutengeneza boma zuri madhubuti ili kulinda
wanyama wake, hasa kwa ulinzi wa usiku. -

Wakati wa kukata manyoya angalia sana ngozi iliyo chini ya
manyoya isikatwe; jambo 1a namna h'ii huleta Vidonda na kumletea
mnyama mateso. Kata kwa uangalifu na kwa upesi. Kondoo
anapochinjwa, fanya 'jambo hilo kwa huruma na upesi sana ili
asiwe nva hofu na kuona maumivu. Angalia kondoo jike wapate
malisho mengi zaidi wakati wanapokuwa na watoto wahitaji chakula
kingi sana. _

Usiwatenganishe wanakondoo na mama zao, mpaka wataka-
Pokuwa wakubwa kutosha kujisaidia wenyewe.

35

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lesson 6.
PIGS

Pigs are not commonly kept in Africa, but those owners who
do keep a few pigs, and they are very proﬁtable animals if properly
cared for, the following advice should note:

Pigs should be fed well. They will eat most things, but fruit
skins, such as pawpaw, melon, pumpkin and such like, make good
feeding, also cassava.

Give plenty of clean water to drink daily.

Pigs should be kept in a good-sized pen, cleaned out every
day and if enough food can be given in the pen this is much better
than allowing them to roam in the bush. They do not require the
same amount of exercise as is given to other domestic animals, but
the pen should be big enough for them to move about freely, and
should be sheltered from the sun and rain.

Do not let lice or other parasites grow on the pigs. A good way
to keep them clean is to rub old motor'car oil all over the body, but.
if this method is used care should be taken to keep the animals out
of direct sunlight.

If pigs have worms theywill not thrive well and the owner should
consult the veterinary department as to the best kind of medicine
to give them.

When a mother pig has a lot of little piglets to look after, she
should be given much more food to eat, otherwise she Will lose condi-
tiOn and the piglets will not thrive well.

36

 

 

 

 




 

 

SOMO LA 6
NGURUWE

Kwa kawaida llgur‘uwe hawafugwi sana katika‘Afrika, lakini
kwa wale wanaowafuga, wataona kwamba wanaleta faida sana waki—
tunzwa vema; shauri lifuatalo lrapasa kuangaliwa: '

Nguruwe yawapasa kulishwa vema. Hula vitu vya namna
nyingi sana lakini maganda ya matunda, kama vile mapapai, mati—
kiti, maboga na Vinginevyo kama hivyo, huwafaa sana, na 'pia
mihogo. ‘

Kila siku wapatievmaji baridi mengi ya kunywa.

Yapasa 11guruwe wawekwe katika zizi lo lote lenye ukubwa wa
kutosha, lisaﬁshwe kila siku, na kama chakula Cha kutosha chaweza
kutolewa kati’ka zizi lenyewe, ni bora zaidi kitolewe h'umo kuliko
kuwaachia kutangatanga Vichakani. Hawahitaji kutembeatambea
namna ile ile kama wanyama wengine wafugwao, lakini yapasa
zizi liwe kubwa 1a kutosha au kuwawezesha kutembeatembea bila
taabu, 11a lapasa liwe na kinga ya jua na mvua.

Usiache Chawa au Vijidudu Vingine kuzaliana katika ngozi ya
nguruwe. N jia bora ya kuwaweka katika hali ya usaﬁni kusugua
mwili mzima kwa kutumia mafuta ya zamani ya motakaa, lakini
ikitumiwa njia hii, lazima kuangalia wanyama wasiwekwe katika
nuru ka’li ya jua. ’

N guruwe wakiwa na michango, hawastawi vema, na mwenyewe
yampasa aombe msaada wa idara ya uganga wa wanyama Vili wa—
mshauri juu ya dawa inayofaa kuwatibu.

Mama nguruwe aﬁapokuwa' na watoto wengi kuwalisha, ya-
pasa apewe chakula kingi zaidi, ama sivyo hatakuwa na afya na
ﬁguruwe wachanga hawataweza kustawi vema.

37

 




 

 

 

 

Lesson 7.
OUR GOOD FRIEND THE DOG

Many people like to keep a dog for various reasons. Dogs
in the home make good and faithful companions and learn through
kindness to guard and protect their master’s property.

A dog should be treated as one of the family and should be
’ given his food at regular times every day. He should have his own
drinking bowl, and this should be ﬁlled with fresh, clean water daily;
dogs in hot climates require a great deal of drinking water and this
helps to keep them ﬁt. A dog should also have his own bed, or mat
to sleep on.

Dogs should not be neglected in any way, otherwise they will
getinto the habit of wandering away and if hungry will pick up all
sorts of dirty things to eat and this can cause sickness. A hungry
dog will also steal food when he gets the chance. _

Yourdog should be de-ticked and brushed with a good hard
brush every day, and if he shows signs of sickness he should be treated
properly in good time. Most dogs in Africa have worms at some time
or other, and worm medicine should be given properly otherwise
the dog will get into a very bad state of health, thin and miserable.
A sick dog cannot be a happy dog and his value as a guard or
companion can be greatly reduced. Dogs are wise animals and
when they feel out of sorts, they will eat grass, but the kind, careful
owner will watch when the dog eats grass and make sure that the
animal is not really ill.

Fly sickness is common amongst dogs living in rural areas and
whenever a dog appears to be listless and drooping, lying around
and showing no interest in food, the ownershould have the condition
diagnosed by an expert and proper treatment given without delay,
otherwise the animal will get weaker and weaker, until he ﬁnally
dies. To neglect a dog is very bad, and very unkind to lose a family
friend in this way.

If the dog is a bitch, do take care of her when she is in season.
Do not let her wander around for many dogs to get at her. Try and
keep her indoors and exercise her on a lead outside until the season
period is past. When a bitch is in pup, do give her extra food and

38

 

 




 

 

SOMO LA 7
RAFIKI YETU MWEMA MBWA

Watu wengi hupenda kufuga mbwa kwa sababu mbalimbali.
Mbwa nyumbani ni mariﬁki wema na waaminifu, nao hujifunza,
kwa kutendewa wema, kuangalia na kulinda mali za mabwana wao.

Yapasa mbwa atendewe kama mmoja wa jamaa ya nyumbani na
apewe chakula chake kwa wakati maalum kila siku. Yampasa
kuwa na bakuli lake 1a maji nalo lijazwe maji baridi saﬁ kila siku;
mbwa katika nchi za joto wahitaji maji mengi ya kunywa, nayo
huwasaidia wawe katika hali njema. Pia yampasa mbwa awe na
kitanda chake mwenyewe au mkeka wa kulalia.

Haipasi kutowajali mbwa kwa njia yo yote ama sivyo watakuwa
na tabia ya kutémbeatembea huko na huko, na wakishikwa na njaa
wataokota aina zote za Vitu Vichafu na kuvila; hali hiyo yaweza
kuwaletea magonjwa. Mbwa mweny njaa pia ataiba chakula apa-
tapo nafasi.

Mbwa yawapasa kuondolewa kupe na kusaﬁshwa kwa burashi
nzuri ngumu kila siku, na akionyesha dalili za ugonjwa, yapasa
atibiwe vema bila kuchelewa. Mbwa wengi katika Afrika huwa
na minyoo nyakati fulani fulani, na dawa ya minyoo haina budi
kutolewa upesi ama sivyo mbwa mwenyewe atakuwa katika hali
mbaya. Mbwa mgonjwa hawezi kuwa na furaha na manufaa yake ya
kuwa mlinzi au raﬁki yaweza kupungua sana. Mbwa ni wanyama we-
nye akili, na wanapojiona hali yao si njema hula majani,1akini mwenye
mbwa, akiwa mwema na mwangalifu, atamwangalia mbwa wakati
anapokula majani na kuthibitisha ya kuwa mbwa Si mgonjwa hasa.

-Ug0njwa unaotokana na nzi ni wa kawaida miongoni mwa
mbwa katika schemu za mashamba na kila mara mbwa anapoone-
kana mnyonge 11a kudhoofu, akilala na kutoonyesha hamu yo yote
ya kutaka kula chakula, mwenyewe yampasa amfanyie matengenezo
ya kupimwa na mtu stadi na kumtibu bila kuchelewa, ama sivyo
mnyam mwenyewe atazidizidi kudhoofu mpaka mwishowe afe.
Kutomtunza au kutomjali mbwa ni Vibaya sana, ni kukosa huruma
kabisa kumpoteza raﬁki wa jamaa katika njia hii.

Kama mbwa ni jika, mtunze sana wakati wa kutamani madume
unapoﬁka. Usimwachilie kutembea ovyo huko na huko na kukuta-
na mbwa dume wengi. J aribu kumweka ndani nyumbani na kum-
tembeza nje mpaka kipindi hicho kimekwisha pita. Anapokuwa
na mimba mpatie chakula zaidi na kuzidi kumtunza; Vile Vile anga-

lia kwamba ana mahali saﬁ tayari kwa kuwekwa watoto wake baada

39

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

care, and see that she has a nice clean place ready where she can have
"her pups. When the pups arrive, and there may be many, do not
keep all of them, leave perhaps three at the most with the mother'
The others should be quickly and humanely put to sleep. This is
not cruel, but kind. The most simple and humane way is to take
the pups, especially the female ones, immerse them quickly in a deep
bucket of lukewarm water and keep them under for an hour or more
they will feel nothing if this is done quickly and it is kinder to put
them to sleep as soon as they are born rather than allow them to
grow up unwanted, to become strays, and to suffer from hunger and ‘
disease. -

The remaining pups will. feed from their mother for six weeks,
and she will be able to feed two or three pups properly, then they
should be given plenty of milk daily, and gradually will be able to
take other soft food until they are old enough to eat anything.
Bones are good for puppies to chew as these help their teeth and
muscles.

NEVER GIVE DOGS OR PUPPIES CHICKEN BONES
these do not dissolve and can cause serious trouble and even the death
of a dog. If ﬁsh is given, do see that the bones are ﬁrst removed.

After the puppies are six weeks old, good homes should be
found for them. It is not good to keep a number of puppies from the
same litter when they are growing up; they will grow better and
stronger when given new and kind owners.

We must never beat our dogs. If a dog does wrong, and most
dogs will do wrong things until they are trained through kindness,
scold him and make him understand that there are things which he
must not do. Talk to him ﬁrmly and kindly, he will soon under-
stand. Never make a dog afraid. Do not cheat or tease him. Let
him trust you always and you will get much pleasure from the train-
ing of your dog. Train a dog not to steal eggs, a common failing
with dogs who are hungry: also, not to chase motor cars or bicycles
nor to bite people.

During the training of your dog, when he does what he is told,
give him a special kind word and a pat, also an extra piece of food,
or perhaps a bone. He will understand by that you are pleased with
him and he will wag his tail in gratitude.

In such a way, a great friendship is established between a man
and his dog. ' '

40

 




 

 

 

ya kuzaa. Watoto wa mbwa wazaliwapo, na waweza kuwa wengi,
usiwaweke wote, waache kama watatu hiVi kuwa na mama yao.
Wale waliobaki yawapasa wauawe upesi na kwa huruma. Kute-
11da hivyo Si ukatili kamwe bali ni huruma. Njia‘ iliyo rahisi zaidi
11a ya huruma ni kuwachukua watoto wake, hasi majike, na kuwaza-
misha upesi katika ndoo iliyojaa maji ya uvuguvugu nakuwaacha
humo kwa kadiri ya saa moja au zaidi—hawataona maumivu kamwe
kama tendo lenyewa likitendwa upesi, na ni vema' zaidi ikiwa wataua-
wa mara tu wata kapozaliwa kuliko kuwaacha kukua wasipotakiwa,
na halafu waje kutangatanga na kusumbuka kwa njaa na magonjwa.

Watoto waliobaki watanyonya kwa mama yao kwa muda wa
majuma sita, naye ataweza kuwalisha wawili au watatu kwa namna
inayofaa, baada ya hapo yapasa wapewe maziwa mengi kila siku,
na polepole wataweza kula chakula kingine kilicho laini mpaka
wawe wakubwa wa kutosha kula chakula cho Chote. Mifupa yafaa
kwa watoto wa mbwa kwa kuguguna maana hiyo husaidia meno yao
11a mUsuli.

Usiwape mbua au watoto wa mbwa mifupa ya kuku kamwe-
mifupi hii haiyeyuki tumboni, nayo yaweza kuleta mas‘Umbufu '
makubwa 11a kumwua mbwa. Kama watapewa samaki, angalia
miiba iondolewe kwanza.

Mbwa wachanga wakiisha pata umri wa wiki sita, yapasa wa
patiwe makao bora. Haifa kuwaweka watoto wengi wa mban-
mahali pamoja pale pale wakati wanapokua; watakua vema wa
kuwa na nguvu zaidi wakipewa watu wengine wenye huruma.

' Tusiwapige mbwa wetu hata mara moja. ‘ Mbwa akitenda
vibaya, na mbwa wengi wat-atenda Vibaya mpaka watakapofundishwa
kwa UPOIe, mkaripie na mfahamishe kuwa kuna mambo ambayo
hana budi kutoyatenda. Mwambie kwauthabiti na upole, naye
atafahamu upesi. Usimtie mbwa hofu. Usimdanganye wala kum—
chokoza—mfanye akuamini sikuzote nawe utakuwa na furaha katika
kumfundisha mbwa wako. Mfundishe mbwa kutoiba mayai, ambao
ni ubayal W21 mbwa wenye njaa; pia mfundishe kutofukuza motakaa
au baisikeli, wala kuuma watu,

Wakati wa kumfundisha mbwa wako, atendapo aambiwayf),
mwambie neno maalum 1a upole na kumpapasa kwa mapenzi, pla
Ila kumpatia chakula kidogo zaidi, au labda mfupa, naye atafahamu
kuwa umeﬁpendezwa, naye atatikisa mkia wake kukushukuru.

Kwa njia kama hiyo huwako uraﬁki mkubwa kati ya mtu 1121 '
mbwa wake.

Mbwa wakubwa wahitaji mlo mmoja mkubwa kila siku, kwa
kawaida jioni, na labda chakula kidogo, a'u mfupa, asubuhi. Wato-

41

 




 

 

 

 

Grown-up dogs require one good big meal every day, usually
in the evening, and perhaps a small bite, or a bone, in the morning.
Puppies require a lot of feeding if they are to grow up strong and
healthy. They should get fed three times a day until they are over
two months old, then they should have two good meals a day.

If a dog is not properly fed he will go out and steal; and eat
human manure, which will cause much sickness, he may also kill
other small animals and do many wrong things.

It is good to dip your dog once in two weeks this helps to keep
him free from ticks and other harmful disease carrying pests.

Never use parafﬁn on a dog’s skin for the purpose of getting rid
of ticks or for any other reason; this can cause a great deal of pain -
and irritation and does not help. Sores should be washed with a
solution of salt and warm water, or with Dettol, well diluted.

DO NOT ATTEMPT to cure your dog of sickness unless you \
have had expert advice as to the proper kind of treatment, otherwise
more harm than good can be done. A sick animal requires prompt
and skilled attention.

See that the pads of your dog’s feet are always Clean and in good
condition. Do not neglect to pull out any thorns which may have
got into the pads. If the dog limps at any time, examine his feet
most carefully.

A word about hunting dogs. Some people still keep dogs for
hunting; this is not a good way to kill animals for food, nor is it a
good way to keep dogs. Many hunting dogs are in a dreadful con-
dition from wounds received whilst hunting, and when these wounds
are neglected they cause the animal great pain and suffering. Wounds
should always be washed and kept clean, and covered with soothing
ointment, the dog should not be made to hunt until the wounds are
completely healed. Hunting dogs are often starved cruelly, in the
belief that they will be more eager to kill. This is all wrong and it
is to be deplored that dogs who are the friends of man should be
used for such unhappy purposes as the killing of other animals.
There are other ways in which game can be killed for food.

Finally, DO NOT KEEP A DOG UNLESS You ARE
PREPARED TO CARE FOR IT IN THE PROPER WAY, i.e.
giving it the necessary food required daily, and plenty of fresh, clean
water to drink; keeping it free from ticks, and giving it care in sick-
ness; making sure that it has a clean place of its own to sleep.

42

 




 

 

to wachanga wa mbwa wahitaji kulishwa sana wapo watakiwa
wakue hali wenye nguvu na afya. Yawapasa kulishwa mara tatu
kwa siku mpaka wamepata umri wa miezi miwili, hapo itapasa kupe-
wa chakula mara mbili kila siku.

Kama mbwa halishwi vema, atatoka nje na kwenda kuiba na kula
kinyesi Cha binadamu, ambacho kitamletea ugonjwa mwingi; pia
ataweza kuua wanyama wengine wadogo na kutenda mambo mengi
mabaya. -

Yafaa kumwogesha mbwa wako dawa maramoja katika majuma
mawili, jambo hilo lasaidia asipatwe na kupe wala wadudu wengine
waleteao uganjwa mbaya. Usitumie, hata kidogo, mafuta ya taa
jun ya ngozi ya mbwa kwa kusudi lala kumwondoa kupe au kwa
sababu nyingine yo yote; jambo hilo laweza kuleta maumivu makali
makali mengi na kuwashwa wala hali‘saidii kitu. Vidonda vyapasa
kusaﬁshwa kwa mchanganyiko wa chumvi na maji ya uvuguvugu,
au kwa dawa iitwayo “Dettol”~hali imechanganywa vema.

Usijaribu kumponya mbwa wako ugonjwa 1's ipokuwa umepata
shauri 1a mtu stadi wa matibio maalum, ama sivyo yaweza kuleta
madhara zaidi kuliko faida. Mnyama mgonjwa ahitaji matunzaji
ya upesi na ya kistadi. 4:.

Angalia mafumba ya miguu ya mbwa wako yawe saﬁ sikuzote
11a kuwa katika hali njema. Usiache kung’oa miiba zo zote ambazo
zimeingia katika mafumba. Kama mbwa aenda chopi wakati wo
wote, itazame miguu yake kwa uangalifu sana.

Hapa liko neno moja juu ya mbwa za kuwindia. Mpaka sasa
watu wengine wanafuga mbwa kwa kuWindia, lakini hiyo si njia
nzuri ya kuwaua wanyama kwa ajili ya chakula, wala si njia bora ya ,
kufuga mbwa. Mbwa we'ngi wa kuwindia wana hali mbaya sana
kwa ajili ya majeraha waliyoyapata walipokuwa wakiwinda, nayo
yasipoangaliwa, humletea mbwa maumivu makali na mateso. Ma-
jeraha yapasa kuoshwa sikuzote na kuwekwa katika hali ya usaﬁ na
yatiwe dawa ya mafuta inayotuliza. Mbwa asiwindishwe mpaka
majeraha yameponywa kabisa. Mara nyingi mbwa wa kuwindia
hushindishwa na njaa kikatili kwa kutumaini ya kuwa watajitahidi
zaidikuua wanyama. Jambo hili ni baya kabisa na yasikitisha
kuwa mbwa walio raﬁki za mwanadamu watumiwa kwa makusudi
mabaya kama hili 1a kuwaua wanyama wengine. Kuna njia nyingine
ambazo wanyama waweza kuuawa kwa ajili ya chakula.

Mwishowe, usifuge mbwa isipokuwa u tayari kumtunza kwa njia
inayofaa, yaani, kumpa chakula kihitajiwacho kila siku, na map saﬁ
mengi ya baridi kwa kunywa; kumtunza asipatwe na kupe, na kum-
tunza wakati wa ugonjwa gkuhakikisha kuwa ana mahali saﬁ pa kulala.

43

 




 

 

 

 

Lesson 8.
OUR CAT

Much of what has been said about the Care of dogs may be
said about cats.

DO NOT KEEP A. CAT UNLESS YOU ARE PREPARED
TO CARE FOR IT PROPERLY

Cats can. get various sicknesses like dogs, when neglected, and
even more so as there are usually so many more stray and diseased
cats to be seen wandering about.

Many people seem to think that a cat does not need any attention
at all, and that it can ﬁnd food and look after itself. This is not so.
A cat needs proper daily feeding and fresh water to drink, just like
a dog or any other animal. A cat should also be brushed daily to
help keep it free from fleas and ticks, also from. the loose hair which
it can swallow when licking itself; loose hair when swallowed can
cause sickness. A cat is a. naturally clean animal and always tries
to keep clean through licking itself. ‘

Cats are useful for catching mice and rats, and some people
think that this is all the food they need. This is quite wrong, but if
a cat is hungryiit will eat its kill and thus may get skin’disease and
other sickness. Cats require proper food. daily i.e. porridge, (posho),
milk and ﬁsh, but not ﬁSl'l bones as these are not easily digested and
can pierce the entrails and cause death, the same also applies to dog.

Cats will eat grass when they feel sick; this is natural medicine
for dogs and cats, but if the sickness keeps on, the right sort of medi—
cine should be given without delay.

Cats should have their own clean and dry place to sleep, and.
should never be left outside at night. When a cat is kept indoors a
small box of sand should be kept in a corner for it to relieve itself.

Female cats can have kittens several times ayear, one reason
why there are so many cats .in the world! When the kittens are born,
it is kindness to take away immediately all but one or two of the male
kittens. The unwanted kittens should be quickly immersed in a.
deep bucketof lukewarm water and kept under for an hour or more.
They feel nothingat all by putting them to sleep in this way, and it
is so much better than allowing them to grow up unwanted, hungry

44

 




 

SOMO LA 8.
’PAKA WETU

Mengi yaliyosemwa juu ya utunzaji wa mbwa, yaweza pia
kusemwa juu ya *paka. "

USIFUGE PAK A 181 POKUWA U TAYARI KU MTUNZA KWA
NJ IA INAYOFAA 4

Paka waweza kupatwa na magonjwa mbalimbali karma mbwa,
wasipotunzwa vema, hata zaidi, kwa Vile ambavyo kwa kawaida
kuna paka wengir zaidi wanaotangatanga na walio wagonjwa.

Watu wengi waelekea kuﬁkiri kwamba paka hahitaji kuanga-
liwa hata kidogo na ya kuwa aweza kujitafutia chakula na kujitunza
mwenyewe. Hivi sivyo. Paka ahitaji chakula cha kufaa na maji
baridi kila siku, kama mbwa au mnyama mwengi'ne .ye yote. Yapasa
pia paka asaﬁshwe kwa burashi kila siku ili kumsaidia kuepukana na
‘viroboto 11a kupe, au manyoya yaliyomnyonyoka yakimezwa yawe-
zayo kumezwa wakati anapojilamba; manyoya yaliyonyonyoka
yakimezwa yaweza kuleta ugonjwa. . Kwa ,kawaida paka ni mnyamab
saﬁ. na siku‘zote hujiweka katika hali ya usaﬁ kwa kujilamba.

Paka afaa kwa kuua panya na mabuku, na watu wengine huﬁ- ‘
_ kiri ya kuwa wanyama‘ hao 11dio chakula wahitajicho, basi. Hili ni
kosa kubwa, lakini kama paka aona njaa, atakula mnyama aliye-—
mwua na hivyo aweza kupata ugonjwa wa ngozi 11a ugpnjwa mwingi—
ne. Paka wahitaji chakula maalum kila siku, yaani ugali, maziwa
11a samaki, lakini si miiba za samaki maana hiZO hazisagiki kwa
urahisi tumboni, nazo zaweza kutoboa matumbo na kumwua, hali

hiyo hiyo humpata na mbwa.

Paka wakiugua hula majani;hii ni dawa ya kawaida kwa mpwa
“ 11a paka, lakini ugonjwa ukiendelea, yapasa itolewe dawa hasa ma-
yofaa, tena bila kuchelewa.

Paka hawana budi kuwa na mahali pao pa kulala, pawe saﬁ
11a Pakavu, wala wasiachwe nje kamwe usiku. Paka anapgkaa
nyumbani, kiwekwe kisanduku kidogo chenye mchanga ndam pe-
mbeni awezapo kwenda ch00.

45'

 




 

 

 

and probably diseased. It would not be possible for the average
householder to feed large families of kittens adequately. Bydis-
posing of them at birth a kindness is being done.

A thin, starved cat, like a thin, starved dog, 13 a pitiful sight and
is the sign of a cruel and neglectful owner.

Cats will catch and kill birds, especially when they are hungry.
This is a very bad practice and should be discouraged. , The birds
in any case should not be destroyed as they are very useful to Man.

Feed yOur cat well, and you will have much pleasure from owning
him, and will keep him your friend. Dogs and cats are real friends
and companions in the home and a person’s character can be judged
by the condition of his domestic animals.

Kindness to animals in the home means a good moral up
bringing for the children. Let the children understand early in life
that they must look after the animals carefully and, never raise a
stick, panga or other cruel instrument against them.

Children should be taught how to play with puppies and kittens
gently and in this way they will grow up with the proper sense of
understanding regarding the needs of our dumb friends, and at the
same time, thiswill help to teach them kindness to each other.

 

The kind owner makes sure that Mwenye paka aliye mwema hua-
his cats are well fed and ngalia kwamba paka zake wana-
comfortable Iishwa sawasawa na kitunzwa

vema

46

 




 

 

Paka jike aweza kuzaa mara kadha wa kadha katika mwaka
hii ndiyo sababu mojawapo ya kuwako paka wengi sana ulimwengu-
ni. Watoto wa paka wanapozaliwa, ni jambo jema kuwaondoa'wote
isipokuwa mmoja au wawili wa kiume. Watoto wa paka wa
yawapasa kuzamishwa mara moja katika ndoo iliyojaa maji ya uvu-
guvugu na kuachwa mumo humo kwa muda saa au zaidi. Hawaoni
maumivu yo yote kwa kuwaua. kwa njia hii, na ni bora zaidi kuliko
kuwaacha wakue hali hawatakiwi, wenye njaa na labda kuugua.
Haingaliwezekana kwa mtu wa kawaida, ambaye pato lake ni dogo,
kulisha kundi kubwa 1a watoto wa paka kwa namna ifaayo na ya
kutosha. Kwa kuwaua pale pale wanapozaliwa, huwa inatendwa
huruma. *

Kumwona paka katika hali ya kukonda, mwenye njaa, kama
Vile ilivyo kwa mbwa aliyekonda na mwenye njaa, ni jambo 1a kusi-
kitisha sana na ni dalili ya ukatili na uzembe wa mwanyewe.

Paka hukamata na kuua ndege, hasa wanapokuwa na njaa.
Haya ni mazoea mabaya sana na yapasa yakomeshwe. Kwa vyo
vyote, haifai kuua ndege kwa sababu wanawafaa sana wanadamu.

Mlishe paka wako vema, nawe utafurahi sana kwamba yu mali
yako, naye atakuwa raﬁki yako. Mbwa na paka ni maraﬁki na
wwenzi wakubwa nyumbani na sifa yamtu yaweza kujulikanakwa
hali ya Wanyama wake walivyo nyumbani mwake.

Huruma kwa wanyama katika nyumba ni tabia njema ya malezi
ya watoto. Watoto wafahamishwa mapema katika maisha yao
ya kuwa hawana budi kuwatunza wanyama kwa uangalifu wala
wasithubutu hata mara moja kuwapiga kwa ﬁmbo, panga wala
kitu kingine kwa kusudi 1a kuwatendea ukatili.

Watoto yawapasa wafundishwe jinsi ya kucheza na watoto w.a
mbwa na wa paka kwa upole; namna hiyo watafahamu vema mahl-
taji ya hao raﬁki zetu wasioweza kusema, na tena jambo hilo litasa-
idia kuwafundisha kutendeana huruma.

 




Lesson 9

POULTRY (F OWLS)

Our fowls bring us in money and give us food, and for this reason
we :must treat them properly. Here are some things to remember
when we keep fowls: -

 

l._ They should have protection from the sun and rain and
also to keep them safe at night, so tve should build a small hut for
them. In the but we should put several perches where the fowls can
roost; they like to sleep like this, off the ground. Also make a few .
nesting boxes so that the eggs will always be laid there and can easily
be found, and will not get stolen. ’

Fowls who have no house to sleep or nest in, and no boxes in
which. to lay their eggs, get into the very bad habit of wandering away
and laying their eggs where they cannot always be found. This is
aloss to the owner, and sometimes when the eggs may be found.
they are too bad to sell or use, and so are valueless.

It should not be much trouble to build a small fowl house, and in

this way, the fowls are properly cared for and will prove of much
more value to the owner.

2. Sand or ashes should always be available for the fowls to
scratch in and dust themselves. Fowls like grit; it is good for their
health and helps to produce good eggs. ’

3. Food should be given every day. Fowls are fond. of green
food, and grain as well. To ensure that your fowls will remain
healthy and lay good eggs, it is good to try and give them extra food
to that which they pick up when foraging. '

4. Water is most important. T here should always be a good
supply of fresh, clean water in a drinking vessel so that the fowls

can drink as much as they like every day. F owls kept without water
get ill, and often die.

. 5. ‘ Chickens should be looked after well, and should be képt
in a small enclosure, well—protected from hawks and other birds
who would swoop downand take them away. The mother hen

should get extra feeding whilst looking after her newly hatched
chickens.

 

 

48'

 

 

 

H ‘tlL_n“*,_M_.___W_.__~ Wu...“

n“
iiiii




 

SOMO LA 9
KUKU

Kuku wetu hutuletea fedha na kutupa chakula, na kwa sababu
hiyo hatuna budi kuwatendea vema, Haya yafuatayo ni mambo ya
kukumbuka tunapofuga kuku:

1. Yapasa wawe na kinga ya jua na mvua na pia kuwaweka
salama wakati wa usiku, kwa hiyo yatupasa kuwajengea kibanda
kidogo kiliCho madhubuti. Katika kibanda hicho yatupasa kuweka
matawi kadha wa kadha kuku wawezapo kukaa; wapenda kulala
namna hii, bila kugu‘sa chini. Pia tengeneza masanduku machache
ya‘kutagia mayai ili yaweze kutagwa humo sikuzote, tena yaweza
kupatikana kwa urahisi wala hayataibiwa.

Kuku wasiokuwa na nyumba za kulala au kutengeneza Viota
vyao wala masanduku ya kutagia mayai huwa na tabia mbaya ya
kwenda huko 11a huko na kutaga mayai mahali yasipoweza kupati-
kana. Hiyo ni hasara kwa mwenyewe, na hata pengine yenyewe
yakipatikana huwa yamehari‘bika mno hata hpwa hayafai- tena kwa
kuuzwa au kutumiwa, basi huwa yamekwisha potea.

Isingekuwa shida ‘kubwa kujenga nyumba ndogo ya kuku, na ‘

kwa njia hii, kuku hutunzwa vema nao watamletea mwenyewe faida
kubwa. ‘ _

2. Sikuzote yapasa upatikane mchahga au majivu ilii‘kuku
waw‘eza‘ kupara na kujitifulia vumbi mwilini. Kuku hupenda mcha-
nga; unafa‘a' ’kwa“ afya'zao, 'nao huwasaidia kujipatia mayai bora.

3. Yapasa chakula kitolewe kila Siku. Kuku hupenda sana
"vyakula Vibichi na nafaka pia. Ili’ kuhakikisha ya kuwa kuku wako
v‘watae‘ndelea kuWa ka’tika hali ya- afya na kutag’a mayai bora, niv vema
kujaribu kuwapatia chakula za’idi- y'a'i kile” waokotacho wényewe
, wakati wanapotembea huko na huko nje. , ‘

, 4. Maji ni kitu cha maana kabisa. Yapasa yapatikane map
mengi baridi na yaliyo saﬁ, yawemo katika chombo cha kpnyyvea
ili kuku wanywe kiasi cha kuwatosha kadiri wapendavyo 1.0121 Slku.
gKUKu wafugwao bila maji huwa wagonjwa na mara nying1 hufa.

5. Vifaranga vyapasa kutunzwa vema, na vyapasa kuwekyya
katlka ua mdogo, na ulindwe vema na mwewe na ndege wenglne

’49

H,
g:
g
E
E
‘F

 




 

 

6. Great care should be taken when transporting fowls to
market. They should never be packed in small baskets so that ,
they can hardly breath. Give them a good sized crate with tins
ﬁxed to the sides to hold food and water for the journey. In this
way, the fowls will arrive in good condition and will fetch better
prices. The crate should be covered on top with leaves to protect
the birds from the sun during the journey and when waiting at the
market to be sold.

On short journeys do not carry the fowls upside-down, or by
the wings, nor again, tie their legs so tightly together that it hurts
them. Carry them under your arm.

If you are walking a long way, do not forget to carry a little
maize in your pocket and a small tin for water, so that the birds may
not go hungry and thirsty. By doing this you are keeping the fowls
well and contented and their condition will be so very much better.

It is cruel to neglect the care of your fowls even if you intend
to sell them. Ducks should also receive the proper treatment, and
have plenty of water provided for them; they love to splash about in
mud and water. Do not carry a duck by its Wings, this is cruel;
the wings can get torn from the body through being carried in this
way, and a lot of suffering can be caused to the bird. One duck
can be carried under the arm, and two or more ducks can be carried
in an airy and roomy basket, when taking them to the market.

Many people living in Africa seem to think that fowls can look
after themselves and do not require to be fed regularly. This is all
wrong, and the reason why the fowls are so thin and poor-looking,
and the eggs so small and of little value.

Care and good feeding, water and shelter, will help to make
ﬁne healthy birds, and produce good, big, and valuable eggs.

When fowls appear sick and off their food, warm milk and
bread may prove useful, but it is a good plan to separate any sick-
lookmg fowl from the others in case the sickness may be catching,

and in this way, you may be able to keep any bad sickness from
spreading. ‘

50

 




 

ambao waweza kuwarukia na kuvichukua. Mama kuku yapasa
apewe chakula kingi zaidi wakati anapokuwa anavitunza Vifaranga
vyake alivyoviangua siku hizo.

6. Yapasa uweko uangalifu mkubwa wakati wa kuwachukua
kulgu na kuwapeleka sokoni. Wasipakiwe kamwe katika Vikapu
VidOgo hata kupumua kwao kuwe kwa shida. Wapatie tenga
kubwa 1a kutosha lililowekwa Vikopo Vilivyowekwa ndani yake kwa
kuchukulia Chakula 11a maji kwa safari. Kwa njia hii, kuku wataﬁka
katika hali njema na tena watakuwa na bei nzuri. Tenga lifunikwe
majani juu ili kuwakinga kuku na jua wakati wa kusaﬁri au wakati
watakapokuwa wakingoja kuuzwa sokoni.

Katika safari fupi usiwachukue kuku Vichwa chini, wala kuwa- ‘
kamata mabawa, wala usiwafunge miguu kwa kuwakaza mno hata
waone maumivu. Wachukue chini ya mkono wako. Kama una-
kwenda Safari ndefu, usisahau kuchukua mahindi kidogo mfukoni
mwako na mkebe mdogo wa maji ili kuku wasiteswe kwa njiaa au
kiu. Ukifanya hilvyo, wawatunza kuku vema na hali wanaridhika,
na hali yao itakuwa hora sana.

Ni ukatili kutowatunza kuku wako hata kama wakusudia kuwa—
uza. Mabata kadhalika, yawapasa kutunzwa vema na kupewa maji
mengi; wao hupenda kuchezacheza majini na matopeni. Usimchu—

"kue bata kwa kumshika mabawa, huo ni ukatili; mabawa yaweza ku-
pasuka mwilini kwa kuchukuliwa namna hiyo, na mateso makali
sana yaweza kumpata bata huyo. Bata mmoja aweza kuchukuliwa
chini ya mkono; wakiwa wawili au zaidi waweza kuchukuliwa katika
kapu lenye hewa nyingi wakati wanapopelekwa sokoni kuuzwa.

Watu wengi wanaokaa katika Afrika waelekea kuﬁkiri ya kuwa
kuku waweza kujitunza wenyewe wala hawana haja ya kulishwa
sikuzote kwa utaratibu. Hilo ni kosa, na ndiyo sababu kuku wame-

' konda sana, na mayai yao ni madogo na bei ndogo.

Utunzaji bora na chakula cha kutosha Vitasaidia kuwafanya

ya kuleta bei nzuri.

51

 

 




 

 

 

Lesson 10
BIRDS OF THE AIR

As most wild birds are useful to men, it is our duty to protect
them. A few species of birds do harm to growing crops and should
be frightened away, but much more harm is done to crops, fruits and
grain, by insects. The birds are our very useful helpers as they
get rid of these pests for us. [Birds will work all day destroying
these enemies of our crops. They will eat millions of grubs and
insects daily. '

Some birds will eat insects, but others hunt for grubs to feed
their young.

IF WE DESTROY BIRDS, THE INSECTS MAY DESTROY
OUR CROPS, and thus famine can be caused. For this reason we
remember to TREAT ALL BIRDS WELL. LEAVE THEM
AND THEIR NESTS WITH THEIRVYOUNG ONES ALONE.
DO NOT TAKE AWAY THEIR EGGS. DO NOT SHOOT AT
THEM NOR USE CATAPULTS. DO NOT TRAP THEM NOR
PUT THEM INTO CRUEL LITTLE CAGES. DO NOT TREAT ‘
THEM CRUELLY IN ANY WAY. THEY ARE OUR FRIENDS
AND HELP US BY DESTROYING THE INSECTS WHICH
WOULD HARM US. ~

Do not take as an example the birds kept in cages in other
countries. Some little birds have become domesticated through
the years, especially singing birds,and these have become used to
being kept as house pets. The wild birds of Africa are not accus-
tomed to this kind of life of confinement, therefore it is very cruel
to catch them and shut them up in any way.

Many people in Africa like to keep parrots as pets. If a parrot
is kept as a pet, do see that the cage is large and airy and that the
the bird has plenty of freedom to move about, also see that there is
always plenty of fresh water in the cage, and fOOd.

It is far better not to try and keep birds in cages at all, even if
they are tamed birds. Birds were given wings to ﬂy about and enjoy

their freedom, so it seems a very cruel thing to take their freedom
away from them. '

5.2:

 




 

SOMO LA 10
NDEGE WA HEWANI

7 Ndege wa mwituni wengi sana huwafaa wanadamu, kwa hiyo
ni wajibu wetu kuwalinda. Aina chache za ndege huleta madhara
kwa mimea na yapasa kuwafukuza, lakini uharibifu mwingi wa ma-
zao, matunda, nafaka na kadhalika huletwa na wadudu. Ndege ni
wasaidizi wetu wanaofaa sana kwa maana wanatuondolea wadudu
hao. Ndege waweza kufanya kazi ya kuwaharibu adui hawa wa
mimea yetu kutwa—watakula funza 11a wadudu elfu elfu kila siku.

Ndege wengine hula wadudu, lakini wengine huwinda funza
ili walishe makinda yao. .

TUKIWAUA NDEGE, WADUDU WATAHARIBU MAZAO
YETU, hivyo, njaa yaweza kuingia. Kwa sababu hii, hatuna budi
kukumbuka KUWATENDEA VEMA NDEGE WA MWITUNI.
WAACHE HURU WAO NA VIOTA VYENYE MAKINDA
YAO. USIYACHUKUE MAYAI- YAO. USIWATENDEE
UKATILI KWA NJ IA YOTE. USIWATEGE WALA KUWA—
TIA KATIKA VITUNDU VIDOGO. WAONI RAFIKI ZETU
NAO HUTUSAIDIA KUISHI KWA KUWAHARIBU WADUDU
AMBAO WANGETUDHURU.

Usifuate mfano wa ndege wanaofugwa katika Vitundu katika
nchi nyinginezo. Ndege wadogo wengine» wamefugwa nyambani
kwa miaka. mingi, hasa ndege wanaoimba, ambao wamezoea kuwe-
kwa au kufugwa nyumbani. Ndege wa mwituni wa Afrika hawaku-
zoea maisha ya namna hii ya ufangwa, kwa hiyo ni ukatili mtupu
kuwakamata na kuwafungia kwa njia yo yote.

Watu wengi wa Afrika hupenda kufuga kasuku kuwa ndege wa
nyumbani. Kasuku akifugwa nyumbani,‘ angalia kwamba tundu
lake ni kubwa lenye hewa nyingi ya kutosha na ya kuwa ndege mwe-
nyewe anaweza kuzungukazunguka ndani yakev bila kupata masumbufu
yo yote; pia angalia ya kuwa tunduni sikuzote Inna maji baridi
mehgi na chakula.

Ni bora zaidi kutojaribu kufuga ndege katika ymatundu kamwe,
hata kama ni ndege wa nyumbani. Ndege wamepewa mabawa
ili waruke na kuufurahia uhuru wao; kwa hiyo laonekana jambo 1a
ukatili kabisa kuwaOndolea uhuru wao. '

53

 




 

 

 

Lesson 11
WILD ANIMALS

To those of us who live in a country like Africa, a country rich in
wild life, it is our duty to do all possible to protect these creatures of
the wilds. Wild animals have their own laws of nature, but it is not for
man to take it upon himself to cause injury and suffering to these
lovely care-free creatures. Here are some of the things we should
remember in trying to prOtect the wild animals:

Do not shoot them wantonly. Do not shoot if there is little
chance to kill outright. Do not set cruel traps, such as gin traps,
stacked pits, tree snares, etc., these are cruel and cause great. suffer-
ing. Never shoot or try to capture a mother with young. This
is particularly cruel as the young of wild animals are most difficult
to rear; by shooting or destroying the mother, the young one
will most probably die.

When wild animals have to be killed, let us try to ensure that
they are killed quickly and humanely. If an animal is wounded
and escapes, see that it is followed up and killed, otherwise it may
prove a serious danger to unsuspecting travellers who may cross
its path. Wounded animals become very savage through the agony
they suffer. A wild animal will attack through fear and pain.

Wild animals have a great fear of human beings as they seem
to associate us with pain and suffering. This is not good, for even
wild animals would respond to kindness if given a chance. ’

We all know that crops must be protected, but let us try to make
a plan for the provision of some humane means whereby we can get
rid of animals who would damage our crops. Shooting seems to be
the most humane way provided the marksman is sure and can shoot
to kill.

Let us try and protect our wonderful wild animals, and let us
remember that their only defence is attack against the human beings
who would injure them and cause them suffering.

54

 




 

SOMO LA 11
WANYAMA WA MWITUNI

Kwa wale miongoni mwetu wanaokaa katika nchi kama hii ya
Afrika—nchi yenye wanyama wengi wa .mwituni? ni wajibu wetu
kufanya yote tuwezayo kulinda Viumbe hiVi vya mwituni. Wanyama
wa mwituni wana sheria zao wenyewe za asili, lakini si kazi ya mwa—
nadamu kujichukulia mamlaka ya kuwadhuru na kuleta mateso
kwa Viumbe hiVi Vinavy'opendeza.

Haya yafuatayo ni baadhi ya mambo yanayotupasa kukumbuka
katika kujaribu kuwalinda wanyama wa mwituni:

Usiwapige kwa ajili ya kujifurahisha tu. Usiwapige kama iko
nafasi ndogo tu ya kuwaua mara moja. Usitege mitego ya kikatili
kama vile mitego ya upote, wa’shimo yenye ﬁto za kuchoma, mitego
ya miti na kadhalika; hiyo ni ya kikatili mno na yaweza kuleta ma-
teso makali sana. Usimpige au kujaribu kumkamata mnyama
mwenye mtoto-hasa tendo hilo ni 1a kikatili kwa Vile ambavyo wato—
to wa wanyama wa mwituni ni Vigumu sana kuwatunza; kwa kum-
piga au kumwua mama, yaelekea sana kwamba mtoto wakw atakuf a.

Kama ni lazima kuua wanyama wa mwituni, na tujaribu kuha-
kikisha kwamba wanauawa upesi na kwa namna ya huruma. Kama
mnyama amejeruhiwa na akakimbia, angalia kwamba anafuatwa
na kuuawa, ama sivyo aweza kuwa hatari kubwa kwa wasaﬁri wasio
na habari wakapitia njia hiyo hiyo. Wanyama waliojeruhiwa huwa
wakali sana kwa ajili ya maumivu wayaonayo. Mnyama wa mwitu-
ni hushambulia kwa sababu ya hofu na maumivu.

Wanyama wa mwituni wanaogopa sana wanadamu kwa maana
huﬁkiri wanadamu ndiyo asili ya maumivu na mateso yao. Hivi
si Vizuri, maana hata wanyama wa mwituni waweza kuelewa na kute-
ndewa huruma wakipewa nafasi.

Sisi sote twajua ya kuwa ni lazima mazao yalindwe, lakini na
tujaribu kufanya mpango wa kuingiza njia za kibinadamu za kuepu—
kana na wanyama wa mwituni wenye hatari ya kuharibu mazao
yetu. Kuwapiga kwa bunduki kwaonekana kuwa ndiyo nJia ya
huruma zaidi kuliko zote iwapo mlinga shebaha ana hakika kwa-
mba aweza kumpiga mnyama na kumwua pale pale. . .

Na tujaribu kuwalinda wanyama wetu wazuri wa mw1tun1, na
tukumbuke ya kuwa ulinzi wao wa pelke yake ni kuwashambulia
wanadamu ambao waweza kuwajeruhi na kuwaletea mateso.

55

 




 

 

Lesson 12
GENERAL PRINCIPLES TO REMEMBER

Be merciful to our beasts. Do unto them as you would have
them do unto you. Treat all domestic animals well, as we would-
like to be treated if we were in their place. Many of them work for
us and bring us money for our homes and families, therefore we
feed them well and water them daily. We give them good shelter
from the sun and rain and protection from danger.

Kindness and consideration to animals helps to make human
beings kind to each other, and those of us who feel kindness for all
living creatures, whether man or beast, can do a great deal to show
the way towards a good way of living to those who have not yet
learned the secret of happiness and contentment through kindness
to animals and their fellow men.

SIMPLE FIRST AID

In areas where it is not possible to obtain skilled veterinary.
treatment for animals, the following advice should prove helpful: ~

1. Find out where some person lives who is naturally gifted .
in helping sick or injured animals so that the help of such
a person can be obtained as quickly as possible. In this
way the life of an animal may be saved, or at least, suffering
arrested until more skilled help can be obtained. 7

2. Burns and scalds: Put the animal under restraint and apply
strong Cold tea, and obtain expert advice at once.

3, Stings: If possible pinch up the affected part between the
ﬁnger and thumb for a few minutes, then apply vinegar to
the part. Adrenalin is also good to give : 3-4 drops for
a dog or cat. This drug is obtainable from all chemists and
is particularly good in cases of shock or collapse. It may
also be given for snakebite, but skilled veterinary aid should
beiobtained as quickly as possible.

56

 




 

‘ W “““““““

:4?“ sz
#4 -4 g A 4.....4

it; ‘87“: T "a”;

«r- «‘9’»: ,.

"‘Fﬁ'

.i‘;

SOMO LA 12 ;

AL!

KANUNI KUU ZA KUKUMBUKA

it; Mr L ‘ «4°.x'uﬂza. ‘

Waonee huruma wanyama wetu. Watendee kama Vile ambavyo
wewe. wataka wakutendee. Watendee mema Wanyama wote wa
. nyumbani, kama sisi tungetaka tutendewe kama tungalikuwa bédala
yao. Wengi wao hutufanyia kazi 11a kutuletea fedha kwa nyumba
' zetu na jamaa, kwa hiyo yatupasa kuwalisha vema na kuwapatia
maji kila siku. T wapatia makao bora kuwakinga na jua na mvua na
kuwalinda na hatari. Kuwatendea wanyama huruma ‘kwasaidia
kuwafanya wanadamu watendeane huruma, na sisi tunaoonyesha
huruma kwa Viumbe vyote vyenye uhai, ikiwa ni watu au wanyama,
twaweza kufanya mambo mema mengi kuonyesha njia bora ya kuishi
kwa wale ambao hawajajua siri ya furaha na uradhi kwa njia ya
kuwatendea wanyama na wanadamu wenzetu huruma.

im‘
-c~ LEI. L

W

 

33‘361‘7?€F7\T;4W p ‘23???—

 

Huduma ya Kwanza Iliyo Rahisi

Katika sehemu za nchi ambamo haiwezekani kupata utabibﬁ
maalum kwa wanyama, mashauri yafuatayo yaweza kusaidia:

1. Tafuta mahali alipp mwenye kipawa cha kuwasaidia wanya-
ma wagonjwa au waliojeruhiwa ili msaada wa mtu kama
huyo upatikane upesi kama inavyowezekana. Kwa njia
hii, maisha’ ya mnyama yaweza kuokolewa, au maumivu
yake yatazuiwa mpaka utakapopatikana msaada wa kista-
di zaidi.

2. Kuungua: Mfunge mnyama, kiisha mWagie chai baridi,
na utafute shauri 1a kistadi upesi. _

3. Kuumwa: Ikiwezekana, ﬁnya mahali palipoumwa kwa
muda kitambo, kii='shé1 tia siki mahali penyewe. “Adrena-
lin” pia yafaa kutumia‘wmatone 3 mpaka 4 kwa mbwa au
paka. Dawa hiyo yapatikana kwa wauzaji wote wa dawa 7
na hasa ni bora kwa ajiliza kustuka au kuanguka. Pia "
yaweza kutumiwa kwa kuumwa na nyoka lakini yapasa
kutafuta msaada wa utabibu wa wanyama upesi kama
inavyowezekana.

ta‘ 2— —.._— :1.— ~ vnw‘.w-‘m é‘w‘ﬁm Mg: 951?: x 22%;»:

 
 

57

 




4. Wounds: These should always be thorOughly cleaned in
the ﬁrst place by gently washing with hot or cold water,
afterwards, applying an antiseptic such as Dettol. Failing
this, use a solution of warm water and salt.

Wounds, whether large or small, should NEVER BE
NEGLECTED.

5. Ears: Watch the ears of your dog or cat carefully, this
helps to avoid canker. Ears should be cleaned now and”.
again with a little oil.

6. Choking: This can be very serious and skilled assistance
should be obtained as quickly as possible. Small. objects
can be removed from the mouth, throat, or upper parts of
the gullet by means of forceps or some butter.

7. Sickness in Fowls: A little butter can sometimes prove
helpful when chickens appear to be choking. Some bread
soaked in warm milk is good for fowls when they seem to
be sick and off their food.

8. Accidents: Remember, animals in pain and frightened, are
almost certain to bite and resent being handled. A coat,

' rug or sack should be thrown over the animal so that it
can be carried to a safe place for attention. Dogs should

be muzzled by a tape or cord tied round the jaws, and cats
handled by a~ helper wearing gloves. Injured animals

should be kept as quiet as possible until expert help is
obtained.

9. Broken limbs: No animal should be made to walk about
with a broken limb. Keep the animal quietly in one place
and bandage the limb with splints to keep it ﬁrm until
expert help is obtained as quickly as possible. In many
cases broken limbs can be mended if given the proper atten-
tion in time, but if a broken limb is neglected, it may not

mend, and in such cases it may mean the loss of a valuable
animal. .

 

It is a good plan for animal owners to keep the following
ﬁrst-aid remedies always handy:

58

 

 




 

Majeraha: Hayo sikuzote yapasa yasaﬁshwe sana kwanza
kwa kuosha taratibu kwal maji ya moto au ya baridi, baada—
ye, itumiwe dawa ya kuzuia majeraha yasioze, kama Vile.
“Dettol”; hiyo isipopatikana, tumia mchanganyiko wa
maji ya uvuguvugu 11a chumvi. '

HAIFAI KUPUUZA majeraha, si neno yakiwa makubwa
au madogo. .

Masikio: Angalia vema masikio ya mbwa wako au paka;
Tendo hilo lasaidia kuepukana na kuoza kwa Vidonda.
Masikio yapasa kusaﬁshwa mara kwa mara kwa mafuta
kidogo.

Kuziba Pumzi: J ambo hilo laweza kuwa la hatari kabisa
na msada wa kistadi wapasa .upatikane upesi sana kama
inavyowezekana. Vitu Vidogo vyaweza kuondolewa kiny—
wani, kooni au katika sehemu za juu za koo kwa kutumia
Vikoleo au siagi.

Ugonjwa katika Kuku: Siagi kidogo yaweza kusaidia Vifa-
ranga Vinapoonekana kuziba pumzi. Mkate kidogo ulio-
tiwa ndani ya maziwa ya uvuguvugu hufaa kwa kuku
wanapoonekana wagonjwa na hawataki kula.

Ajali: Kumbuka ya kuwa wanyama Walio katika hali ya
maumivu na hofu wana hatari sana ya kuuma 11a hawataki
kuguswa. Koti, bla‘nketi nene au gunia lapasa li’tupwe
juu ya mnyama ili aweze kuchukuliwa mpaka mahali pa
salama akaangaliwe. Mbwa watiwe Vigwe vyenye kufunga
katika taya, na‘paka wachukuliwe 11a mtu mwenye kuvaa
mifuko ya mikono (gloves). Wanyama waliojeruhiwa
yawapasa waachwe kimya kama inavyowezekana mpaka
msada wa kistadi upatikane.

Viungo Vilivyovunjika: Mnyama ye yote ambaye kiungo
chake kimevunjika asitembezwe. Mweke mnyama mwe-
nyewe kimya mahali pamoja na kukifunga kiungo kwa
Vitambaa na Vibao ili kiwe imara mpaka msaada madhubuti

utakapopatikana upesi kama inavyowezekana. Mara nyi—é ‘

ngi Viungo Vilivyovunjika vyaweza kutengenezwa kama
Vikishughulikiwa vema na bila kuchelewa. Lakini kama
kiungo kilichovunjika hakiangaliwi na kutojaliwa, yaweze-
kana kisitengenezeke, na katika hali kama hizo yawezekana
kumpoteza kabisa mnyama mwenye thamani.

59

 




Dettol, Acriflavine Emulsion (for sores, burns and wounds)
Liquid Parafﬁn, Castor Oil, Boracic Powder, Boracic
Ointment, Epsom Salts, Common Salt, Kerol or Gammatox,
Olive Oil. Also some strips of bandage (americani or
calico is good material to cut up for bandages and, is not
expensive). Some pieces . of thin wood for splints. It
is useful also to have a forceps and a pair of scissors.

 

It would be an excellent plan for owners of many animals
living in one area to set aside a small hut or room, for use as a First
Aid station or hospital, and all co-operate to keep it supplied with
the necessary equipment, such as listed above.

 

 

A dip could be constructed there, and all small animals could
be brought regularly for dipping. There should also be a vessel full
of fresh drinking water always available.

A well-organised First Aid service in every village would be a
greatasset for the welfare of animals.

N OTE. The R.S.P.C.A. in Tanganyika readily welcomes applica-
tions for assistance and advice in any matters relating to
the welfare of animals.

 

There are similar Societies in Kenya, Uganda and Zanzibar.

Addresses: P.O., Box 1844,
Dar-es—Salaam. Tanganyika

P.O. Box 379,
Mombasa Kenya

P.O. Box 415,
Kampala Uganda

Post Oﬂ‘ ice
Zanzibar

 

60

 

 

 

 




 

Ni shauri bora kwa wale wenye wanyama sikuzote kuhifadhi

dawa zifuatazo za huduma ya kwanza:

“Dettol”, “Acriﬂavine Emulsion” (kwa ajili ya Vidonda, kuu-
ngua na majeraha), Mafuta ya Taa, Mafuta ya Mbarika,
“Boracic Powder”, Haluli, Chumvi ya Kawaida, “Kerol” au
“Gammatox”, Mafuta ya Mzeituni”. Pia Vitambaa vya kufu-
ngia (amerikani au bafta vyafaa kuvikata na kuvitumia kwa
kufungia wala si ghali.). Na Vipande vya mbao nyembamba
kwa ajili ya Viungo Vilivyovunjika. Pia yafa‘a kuwa na Vibano
na mkasi. _

Lingekuwa shauri bora sana kwa wenye wanyama wengi, wanao-

kaa katika sehemu moja, kuwa nakibanda au chumba kwa kutolea

huduma ya kwanza au hospitali, na wote wasaidie kuweka akiba ya
Vitu Vinavyohitajiwa, kama Vilivyotajwa hapo juu. Paweza
mahali pa kuongeshea wanyama dawa, na wanyama wadogo wote
waweza kuletwa hapo kila mara. Pia yapasa sikuzote kiwepo cho-
mbo kilichojazwa maji baridi ya kunywa.

Kingetengenezwa chama bora cha Huduma ya Kwanza katika
kila kijiji ingefaa sana kwa ustawi wa wanyama.

ANGALIA. R.S.P’-.C.A. (yaani chama cha kuzuia ukatili .wa
wanyama) katika Tanganyika chapokea kwa furaha
maombi ya msaada na mashauri katika mambo yote
yanayohusu ustawi wa wanyama. Kuna vyama
Vingine vya namna hii katika nchi za Kenya na

Uganda na Zan7ibar.

Anwani : P.O. Box 1844,
. Dar es Salaam. Tanganyika.

P.O. Box 379,
Mombasa Kenya

P.O. Box 415,
Kampala Uganda 4

Post Office
Zanzibar

61-.

- ::‘;;_:'§§§_<:‘;;ZE?EE’§§E¢:;:‘ ‘23??? “Vii 55:]

1.
17"
M
‘V
.9:
I J
‘l
(,4
'5‘.
i
.‘l
h
3;
[‘44
ii
i:
{a
‘i
i:
ii“
iii
“-3?
13!
If
i
k,
E,
d?
Ii
E
3
3
F,

A A; w. My .viwz—im‘mﬁm‘ <

 




 

.\ I“:

This is senseless cruelty —— the Silaha isiyo na maana ambayo
cause of much suffering to birds huwaumiza ndege wengi
of the air

62

 

 

 

 

 




THE EAGLE PRESS

This is the sign of the
East African Literature Bureau, a High Commission
service. Its work is the production of books for
Africans and the establishment of library services.

 

Some stories you will enjoy reading

Adili Na Nduguze—Adili and His Brothers
Baraka Na Wangang’ anyi—Baraka and the Robbers '
Kisa cha Johana Mjinga Na Utiivu Wake

‘ Binti Wa Mfanyi Biashara Na Hadithi Nyingine, 9— The
‘ Merchant’sDaughter ..

 

’Kisanduku Cha Dhahabu Na Hadithi Nyingine, —— The Box
ofGold

Mamba Na Kima Na Hadithi Nyingine, -— The Crocodile and
the Monkey ‘ ..

Mambo Yaliyompata Saidi ”Beneza —— The Adventures of Saidi
’ Beneza . . ..

leulalna Na Nguruwe Na‘Hadithi Nyingine, —— The Boy and
t e 1g

. Panya Kula'. Chuma 2 Na Hadithi Nyingine, —— How Mice Ate
Iron and Other Stories. ' ..g

_ Kichwa Upande Na Hadithi Nyingine, _—- The Unfortunate Boy
- k ‘ Hadithi Za Maugli -—-— Mowgli Stories

Jamaa Hodari Kisiwani —- The Swiss Family Robinson

 

 

THE EAST AFRICAN LITERATURE BUREAU

P.0. 39112922 ‘ P.O. Box 1408‘ ‘ P.O. Box- 1317
' Nairobi DAR Es SALAAM . a ~ Kampala

 




A HUMANE EDUCATION SERIES
(ENGLISH 8: FRENCH)

How to Create Happiness

 

Comment Creer Du Bonheur Auteur De Soi

 

GUIDE FOR “HUMANE ACTION GROUPS”

BY

Issued by Humane Education Institute of Africa. Isobel Slater

 




 

 

 

A' Humane Education Series '

 

“How TO CREATE HAPPINESS”

It is not enough just to TALK to
students about the philosophy of life——
it must be proved by ACTION that
the meaning of, ‘COMPASSION FOR
ALL LIVING CREATURES’, is truly
understood. ACTION is the surest
way to prove that the lesson has been
thoroughly assimiliated.

From the youngest child to the adult,
it is possible to put into practice the
‘lesson of, COMPASSION F O R
OTHERS—in other words, practise
the happiness of performing, and
sharing kind actions.'_ In this way a
wonderful feeling of helpfulness and
comradeship is ,I spread. Human beings
depend on each other—inc person can
live entirely alone—therefore, all those
who are more fortunate than others,
can spare a little of their own good
fortune by helping in small ways to

brighten the lives of the, not so fortu-

nate, ones.

The following suggestions could form
the basis of a simple action plan

A which could be put into operation in
every country:—

, Members of Social Clubs, Students, in
educational institutions, even Children

in school, could form Humane Action
Groups among themselves—choosing
a Leader for each Group. A Group
to consist of any number, the more
the better—the purpose of the Group
being to study, and discuSs. the true
meaning of COMPASSION and KIND-‘-
NESS, and what it means to have a
REVERENCE FOR LIFE; then ﬁnd
out how these principles can be applied
actively, and intelligently to daily
living.

Start by thinking of Defenceless
creatures—by Defenceless is 'meant:
LITTLE CHILDREN IN NEED,
AGED, INFIRM and HANDICAPP-
ED persons, perhaps BLIND or LIMB-
LESS, and of course, ANIMALS.
All these are helpless, living creatures,
unable to help themselves. Unless those
of us endowed with health and ade-
quate comforts, take some aCtion to
ease the burden of the unfortunate
ones, how then, can suffering and dis-
tressful conditions ever be eliminated?

It should not be difﬁcult for those
of us with EVERYTHING, to spare
some thought, and by some kindly
action, help to make life happier for

 




 

 

our less fortunate brothers and sisters.
The Animals too, through their very
dependence on us, should never be
forgotten, but given THEIR SHARE
of kindness and consideration.

Let the Leader of a HUMANE
ACTION GROUP make a plan, i.e.
he, or she, could divide the Group into
two sections—ONE SECTION to deal
with the help which could be rendered
to needy Human Beings, the OTHER
SECTION to deal with Animal Welfare.
This sort of Humane service can be
done in spare time.

The Humanitarian-minded members
of SECTION ONE, could for example
observe closely the living conditions
of the poorer people in any particular
area, and perhaps ﬁnd that many
children suffer from malnutrition, and
probably also, be very poorly clothed.
Try then to plan some project which
would enable the HUMANE ACTION
GROUP to provide extra nourishment
for these needy children—milk, eggs
and fruit, would be very useful. Also,
try to collect unwanted articles of
clothing from amongst friends and
acquaintances. You might also ﬁnd
some aged and helpless persons, sorely
needing assistance in one way or
another. Again, members of a
HUMANE ACTION GROUP could

be instrumental in bringing to the

notice of Authorities, or established
Welfare Organisations, the plight of
individuals or families, who might
otherwise be overlooked. This kind of
practical action could be invaluable to

'a community—at the same time

bringing untold satisfaction and hap-
piness to all those able to demonstrate
so usefully the results of the Lesson in
Kindness and Unselﬁshness, truly

learned.

The OTHER SECTION of a Group,
consisting of those interested in Animal
Welfare, could work in much the same
waywobserving carefully the condition
of animals in the area, whether they be
domesticated in the house, or in the
ﬁeld. Any animals noticed that look
sick or ill-treated, would require a little
investigation in a quiet, informal way.
Try to locate the owner and ﬁnd out if
possible, the cause for the unsatis-
factory condition. If the owner is at
fault, perhaps through ignorance, advise
in a kindly manner that it is not good
to let animals—helpless creatures that
they are—suffer. Offer to assist, if
there was something you could do. For
instance, an owner may be very poor
and not able to afford the cost of
procuring skilled veterinary treatment
for a sick beast. In that case, you might
be able through your Group to ﬁnd
some way of assisting towards getting
expert treatment — naturally for the

 

 

 




 

 

 

sake of the animal.

Again, you might ﬁnd an owner
ill-treating a dog, cat, donkey, or other
animal—in such case, kindly advice,
mentioning the law for the protection of
animals—would probably be effective;
it being remembered that many owners
of domesticated animals are blissfully
ignorant of the simple needs of the
animals. This would provide an
excellent opportunity of teaching such
an owner, something about the welfare
of animals in general, and how nece-
ssary it is to give these patients un-
complaining, helpless creatures the care
and consideration essential to their
well-being. Perhaps, again, you might
ﬁnd some needy owner, seriously
handicapped and unable to take his
animals out to graze. In this case you
could offer to help in this necessary
task—animals must have food, and

water, too.

ANIMALS AND HUMAN
BEINGS DEPEND ON EACH
OTHER, AND THEY HELP ONE
ANOTHER IN MANY DIFFE-
RENT WAYS—it is therefore against
all the principles of humanity to neglect
defenceless creatures who cannot speak
or help themselves.

The foregoing ideas are only a few
of the ways in which HUMANE

ACTION GROUPS of people,
young and old, can ACT, and PRO-
MOTE THE PRINCIPLES of
HUMAN UNDERSTANDING.

By performing simple deeds of
KINDNESS, a wonderful feeling of
COMRADESHIP can 'be fostered all
around—so little effort can produce so
much—one KIND ACTION can lead
to others, ensuring the way to happy
and contented living. The purely
selﬁsh adult or child, can never be
really satisﬁed—nothing gives pleasure
——the more obtained, the more is
wanted. Such a condition of living, not
only affects, temperamentally, the
person concerned, but can, in some
measure, reﬂect on everybody within
reach—in fact the aura created can
engender a subtle feeling of unrest and
discontent. Selﬁsh individuals, whether
unconsciously selﬁsh or otherwise,
could well, too, be named among the
unfortunate people of the world in dire

need of compassion and understanding.

Let the doctrine of HUMANE
ACTION GROUPS be based on
practising, COMPASSION, TOLE-
RANCE, CONSIDERATION, UN-
DERSTANDING and JUSTICE.

Now is the time to THINK and
ACT—the world needs its HUMANI-
TARIANS.

 




 

* “Acts of mercy, be they small or large,
can pave'the- way to better living more
New ﬁelds of
sympathetic endeavour open up easily,

"than anything else.

generating faith to triumph over vicissi-
‘tude, and above all, the capacity for
Cem‘enting bonds of , TRUST and

FRIENDSHIP.

All this, and more, can be-the rich
endowment of : those who have
LEARNED, and ACTED, the LESSON

"OF LIFE—‘COMPASSION FOR
ALL LIVING CREATURES’.

 

 




 

 

Education Humanitaire”

Series :

 

 

“COMMENT CREER DU BONHEUR

AUTOUR

Ce n’est pas assez de parler aux
évleves depla Philosophie Vitale; on. doit
la leur prouver par idesagissements
‘aﬁn que la signiﬁcation du terme
(“COMPASSION POUR T o UT E s
LES CREATURES VIVANTES SOIT
VERITABLEMENT ENTENDU PAR
EUX”.

Agir est le plus sﬁrmoyen de prouver
que la lecon a été assimilée a fond.

Du plus jeune enfant a l’adulte il
est possible d’entrainer dans l’exercise
de la lecon de compassion pour autrui.
En d’autres mots: exercer 1e bonheur
que donne l’acomplissement d’une
bonne action. Un sentiment bien fai-
sant de serviabilité et de solidarite’ est

lainsi répendu.

LES ETRES HUMAINS DEPEND-
ENT L’UN DE L’AUTRE; PER—
SONNE NE PEUT VIVRE COMPLE-
TEMENT SEUL.~Tout ceux qui sont
plus heureux que les autres doivent
accordervun peu de leur bonne fortune
231 ceux qui sont moins chanceux, en

aidant modestement a rendre leur vie
plus gaie, plus e’panouie.

DE 801”

LES CONSEILS SUIVANTS POUR-

RAIENT .ETRE , la base d’un pro-
gramme exécutable Idans tous ~les pays:

,Des membres de Clubs Sociaux,

des e'tudiants appartenant a des insti-

tuts scolaires, et méme les enfants des

e'coles, pourraient organiser des GRO-

UPES D’ACTION HUMANITAIRES

parmi eux, et choisir un chef pour
chaque groupe. Un groupe peut se
compoSer de 11 ’importe quel nombre,
le plus de membre 1e mieux cela vaudra,
1e but 'du groupe étant d’étudier et de
discuter le ve’ritable sens . des mots
COMPASSION et ' BONTE, et ce
que veut dire avoir 1e “RESPECT DE
LA VIE”. Quand ces principes seront
bien compris ils pourront s ’apphquer
intelligement a la Vie journaliere.

Commencez par penser aux creatures
sans defense. On entend par “sans
defense”: LES PETITS ENFANTS
BESOIGNEUX, LES AVEUGLES,
LES EMPUTES LES VIEUX, LES

"INFIRMES, LES ESTROPEIES ET
*BIEN ENTENDU LES ANIMAUX.
Tous ceux 1a sont des creatures vivan-

tes qui ne sont pas en e'tat de se secourir

 




 

 

eux—mémes. A moins que ceux dotes
de santé et d’un bien étre sufﬁsant ne
pensent 2‘1 des moyens pour alléger 1e
fardeau de ceux qui sont malheureux,
comment pourra-t’on jamais e'liminer
les souﬁ’rances et ces conditions lamen-
tables.

11 no devrait pas étre difﬁcile pour
ceux d’entre nous qui ont tout, d’
accorder un moment de réﬂexion, de
réﬂéchir et de rendre par une bonne
action, la vie de nos freres et soeurs
moins favorisés que nous, plus heureuse.
Les animaux aussi ne serait ce qu’a
cause de leur état de dépendance, ne
devraient jamais étre oublie’s non plus,
et on doit leur donner leur part de
bonté et d’e’gards.

Faites rédiger un programme par le
chef d’un GROUPE D’ACTION
HUMANITAIRE, qu’il (ou elle) divise
le groupe en deux sections. . UNE
SECTION pour s’occuper des secours a
donner aux étres humains nécessiteux,
L’AUTRE GROUPE, pour s’oCcuper
de la bien faisance pour les animaux.
Ch {5th s’occuper de ce genre de service
humanitaire dans son temps libre.

Les membres humanitaires de la
premiere section du groupe pourraient
prendre a tache d’observer les conditions
dans les quelles Vivent les plus pauvres
dans un quartier quelconque; ils de’cou-
vriront peut étre que beaucoup d’

enfants souffrent d’alimentation insufﬁ-
sante et d’un manque de vetements,
qu’ils sont trés pauvrement ve’tus.
Tachez alors de combiner des moyens
qui permettront au GROUPE D’
ACTION HUMANITAIRE de pour-
voir de la nourriture suplémentaire
pour ces pauvres enfants: du lait, des
oeufs des fruits seraient utiles. Tachez
de rassembler des Vetements hors
d’usage parmi vos relations et amis,
d’une facon quelconque. Vous pourriez
méme rencontrer parfois des gens
ages et inﬁrmes qui auraient besoin
d’assistance quelconque. La encore, les
membres du GROUPE D’ACTION
HUMANITAIRE pourraient porter
ces cas a la connaissance des Autorites
ou des Organisations de Bienfaisance
établies.

Ces “demonstrations pratiques”
pourraient étre d’un effect inestimable
pour la communauté, et apporter en
meme temps un bonheur et une satis-
faction profondes a ceux qui ont pu
montrer si bien, le re'sultat de lecons
de bonté et d’altruisme bien apprises.

LA SECONDE SECTION du
groupe formé par ceux intéressés par la
bienfaisance au service des animaux
pourraient operer a peu prés de la
meme facon, en observant les conditions
des animaux dans le districte ou ils
habitent que ce soit dans les maisons,
ou dans les champs. Les animaux

 

 

 




 

 

ayant l’aspect malade, ou maltraités
auraient besoin que l’on s’informe
a leur sujets, avec tacte et discretion.
Tachez de répérer letproprietaire et
d’apprendre 1a raison de l’etat insatis-
faisant de l’animal. Si 1e proprietaire
est fautif, peut étre par ignorance,
expliquez lui gentiement que ce n’est
pas bien de laisser les animaux, crea-
tures sans defenses souffrir ainsi. Oﬂrez
lui votre aide si vous pouvez y faire
quelque chose. Le proprietaire est peut
étre pauvre, tres pauvre et ne peut se
procurer 1e secours d’un traitement par
le Veterinaire pour l’animal malade.
Dans ce cas vous pourriez par votre
groupe, trouver 1e moyen d’obtenir 1e
traitement d’un Vétérinaire expérimente
pour l’animal malade, vous feriez cela
naturellement dans l’inte’rét de l’animal.

Vous lpourriez rencontrer un pro-
prietaire maltraitant un chien, un chat,
ou quelqu’autre animal; dans ce cas,
parlez lui doucement de la loi; cela
pourrait avoir son effet, se souvenant
que bien des proprietaires d’animaux
sont ingorants des besoin les plus
courants de leurs bétes. Cela vous
donnerait 1’occasion de parler un PC“
a ce proprietaire et de lui enseigner 1e
bienétre des animaux en géne’ral et
combien il est nécessaire de donner a
ces creatures desemparee's les soins et
la consideration essentiel a leur bien-
étre. Vous pourriez encore rencontrer

un pauvre propriétaire empécher pour
une raison grave de mener ses animaux
a la pature. Dans ce cas vous pourriez
olTrir de l’aider dans cette tache ne'ces-
saire; les animaux ont besoin de
nourriture et aussi d’eau.

LES ANIMAUX ET LES ETRES
HUMAINS DEPENDENT LES UNS
DES AUTRES ET ILS S’ENTREA-
IDENT DE BEAUCOUP DE
FACONS. C’est donc contre tous les
principes humains de négliger des
creatures sans defense, qui ne peuvent
parler et s’aider eux—mémes.

Les idées ci-dessus ne sont que
quelques unes par lesquelles les
GROUPES D’ACTION HUMANI-
TAIRES peuvent fomanter les prin-
cipes de l’entente humaine.

En faisant de simples actes de bonté
un simplement merveilleux ressente-
ment de solidarite né autour de nous,
ainsi un petit effort peut provoquer
un aussi grand résultat! Un acte de

Bonté peut en engendrer d’autres et

conduir a une facon de vivre heureuse
et satisfaite. L’adulte ou l’enfant pro-
fondément egoistes ne pourront jamais
étre veritablement satisfaits. Rien ne
leur donne de plaisir. Plus ils obtiennen t,
plus ils veulent. Une facon semblable
de vivre affecté non seulement 1e
temperament de la personne elle-méme,
mais se projette aussi sur son entourage,

 




 

et en "effet l’ambiance ainsi créeapeut
engendrer un .léger sentiment d’inquie-
tude et de mecontentement. On pour-
rait ‘bein’inclure les égoistes, (qu’ils le
soient' consciement- ou inconsciement)
parmi les gens infortunés de ce monde
qui ont grand besoin de compassion et
de» comprehenSiOn.

' Basons nos GROUPES D’ACTION
'HUMANITAIRES sur la doctrine
"i practicante de COMPASSION, DE
' TOLERANCE, DE CONSIDER-
. ATION,‘D’ENTENDEMENT etde
JUSTICE. ' '

C’est 1e moment de penser et
d’agir—le monde a besoin de ses
humanitairiens.

Les 'actes de Charite et de Bon’té,

qu’ils soient grands ou petits, peuvent
paver 1e chemin, mieux que quoique
ce soit Vers une meilleure facon de
Vivre. De no‘uveaux domaines s’ouvrent
faCilement a l’eifort sympathique‘, allu-
mant 1a foi 'ne'cessaire pour triompher
des vicissitudes et donnant par dessus
tout l’aptitude pour cimenter des liens
de conﬁance et d’amitie’.

Tout ceci, et plus . encore peut
devenir 1a richesse de ceux qui ont
appris et agi selon 1a grande lecon
Vitale—“COMPA 5 $10 N POUR
TOUTES LES CREATURES
VIVANTES.” _

 

 

 




 

 

 

PRINTED BY
TANGANYTKA STANDARD LTD.
DAR ES SALAAM.

 




ﬁﬁLﬁﬂb waLwARm AHEIAIQIK
22 Taat 17th Street
N32: 3032?}: 32 5‘3622 3:22:14:

January 8,: 15958

Mfg: 1:843le 318139? , 331.8013;

ﬂirecﬁwyg R.S.F.C.A., Tangamyika
P.Q..BQK 18 ‘ ’
I322}; $2 :EEI2212222222 _
Tamgauyikag R.A.

332222: 2:22:22..- E3122 tars

2222222222 writing 2272222 222:2 13222222222 , 221' 92:26:32}: 22 2221: 22. 322222222228 22222 22222222 122.3 With
2,232.53“ 22321-2322 2222212222022 tha (22222321022 2:22? 22232222222223.2122; a print 01' 13315 222222222222222222
1:211:22 1:22:22 322222, 222 you 222212222222 1221:2222 Anderson 12 23212 pmographer 2232222 2222.222
2322222 film; 22223. 8222222223 themght that 33% par222ap3 Might b2 able 2:22 arranga
with 2.22222 2222 Rmhamant Awaciates ’62 222 Whether 2 5232222332221 Wiw (222221221 1%
222222322 £22222 32222222

’Z’Mw 2222 21:22:22 22122:: 22222222 3:22:22 “2224222222222, 272222 is vary ampakhet id and
2222132 2222222123 to 2121p. 22222222222222.2129 the: 12222222222 22222222232 £22 51222 can 221222225562 13
$223623 £222: 222:0 22262222222 W222 ﬂipping 22222222232 22;: 1222222; inelmiing 22.112221222122222
would 2:222 222222222221: $23150. $22222 film :22 22:2 beam): that if it 2:222:22 sent by
2 22322 2222 2222222222 «22122 2222 221250. 222 22222 222222222222“: that 222de 22
22:22:22; 232222222 3222222122222 I ﬁght 2222 122222 22.222222 22222, E21232. 2222;222:2022 2222222222 :3 "22:1 >
22222:: 2232222222 22222222. 22122222 22. 122212222 22222222122221'222222 12222212222 right "22:22:, “£222.22 2232222222
22222:; 2122 12222222". ‘ ' '

All 2222? 222222 I 1mm: is: ﬁrmadfully 22222222222222222. Unfortunawlm 1212‘s. Andaman
1:22:22: 2222 52:22:21 22.22 :22? bar cam and 223.1 1222-3222:.22 22:22:22 in 222122 field. If 22 32.6 72222 2222122
. 2.2222221122222122 ‘5 the: 2:3, $211223:ng 621222222 222212123; 3222:2332.ny 22:21:. amount ‘23:: 22223122: 1222222
“If? 222:2 2.152 220222222222", .22 1622222 22ri22t :13 22:22.. 2222;222ch 13:3 be available for
22222221322222 232222 2222221232 '

I 222221222222 “b22221: this is 222 22122292222222.1222 2222222222: and 222.211 that th22 expense
2:222:22 226*:322 2232:2222. If“ 372222 2222022121 decides to- 22'22222221 22132523? for 1:22:22 222222222222 rental
22nd. 22:22-22: 21222222222212, you 2h22221d 2225:1222 dim-€223.32 to £22.22. 222222 222222 22222222522222: that.
"22:22:2222 222222221221 arrangemnta 2:222:22 22222212 22;: W22. 2212622223012. At ”that “33:12:22 32022
22222123; 22:22:22.:Izifz: 2213:: 222222212212 22:22: 2:22:22; 2222 Emglish :23: French 22222210222

I 2222 2mm“ 222.212 to 122222 1322222 able to 232 222‘ mm 23812-222238. fiarhapse you
222L721 22:12:22,222 to 22225.2; 22.102.23.31: We 32222222 and 222:. that ﬁrm you M22322 be 2:212 13::
22222222122222 :2 3.6222222 printII I 2222: mm 22222.22 it 22:23-32 mt 2:222 as 2222322231222 as the
p222: 2222222, print.

2221221 kind mgards ’20 22022 and b22312 2212212223 in your aplendid work,- I am

Sincerely 322222223,

33221322112 Draper
12222222212232.2222 Secretary -

 




F’KHXIXX. XXX 22 LXXt 1min XX.

XX,» , “XXX

XXXXXXXX 30, 19 2'2"?

XXX. .mwX XXXXXXXX
*X 'IXXXXXX
XXX XXXX3 XX YO

XXX}? “XXX XXXXXXXX

, XX XX jXXX XXXXXXXX XXX XXXXXXXX 1XXXXX X XXX.XXX XXXXXXX
XX XX ﬁsﬁux.waXa XXXXXXXX in XX 1% XXXXX, XXX_X XX XXXXXXXXXX
XX XX XXX XX XXX XXXXX XXX XXX X14XX XX XXXX XX XX3X XXX. XXXXXX
XX XXXX X XXXXXXX; X3? yaw XXXXX 2* .X 3‘ film.

I XX XXX; XXX v‘. Xi XX XX quXXXXX XXXXXXXXXX
XXX XXXXXX XXXX XXX" gamma XX ”$306135 XX I XXXXXX
XXXX XX XXXXX.XX . XXX XXX XXX. XlXX XX XX ﬁuXﬁﬁ“”ﬂ X XXiXX3
XXX XX XXX XXXXX XXXX XXX XX X 3’30" XXX ~13?de I 1am 3: X} 3 Xf‘M‘I"
XX XX XX XingXXya XXXXX XXX XXX X: 1‘11} XX X.) XXXXXXX XX XX 52th
XXXXW‘z .1." 91’ as”; 91.52% XX XX XX”! XX. grwmg XX’XXXXXXXXX.

XXXXX WW:

 




2:222:22. :5 1.21:3... £2353‘55JTE
22 2:22.22. 17th Streak
2222: 72222: 3, 3:52:22 Xark

2:13:22... 1122:2222}. 5312:2222: , 233.22,,
1312222222312, ﬁagﬁﬁvﬁw ngawma
P2232 E32222; 18h}: ,

4531314 €33 3.223.222.2222

Tanawma, 2.

2222:: .2222. 221222222 ’ 4 2’

1:: 22222222.: 22? 2:222:22: SW23: 22th:: :12: 2.22%? 1‘1:er the: 2:222: far 41% 22222212252
:5. 23122222231226?“ WW .122 gm: af 22:22:22: 1121531 2225.22.11 ha: 32131:. "23:22:: rmivaédc
m 232;» 23:22:“ 22:22 rag-give 23. 222: .- 3:123:11? £322.22 “33312: “:3 3211122222 * 222.2222: 1222:292222222212221 1:322:23?
2,21 2:222:2mgmm #:2111122". 222:?" 22:22: 3.2222222222: in , 2:222:22»: ”the 122222 222’ a, Mm ..
”film 2222 332*... ﬁehmitmxw At that. 2222:: 2.2222 2222;222:2222 with 2.222 2 1222221222 620 aeahgmnt
2222222 22222:: 2222222: {22222222222222 2 222:2, .22 2.22222: 2:222. 2:222 file: 2.2 “‘2’“
2222211221212: 12': 16222:: 2222:: 2211.132 2:22:22 :22: £2.22: 22222::22222 War :0?- aightemn math“: “49
$223222 {3:22:22 221.52: 12222 122mm $29221: “ﬁrm“ if 2:22:22 22222:: 1211;222:2231: $.22 abmmiﬂg 22
352222: Win”: gm: 2222:2121 62222222222254.2222»: ﬂimmtly 2:13?» 3*“ ﬁr... garden 222m at the:
1:22 ﬁemhammﬁ: 22222222222222; 35325.} ﬁadiwm ﬁtfﬂﬁﬁ’ﬁ: 3:22.: 22:22:: Gity. me Emu?
12 "13:22:22: 31 2222222222222: 13.322222;- 21:22:: infamm: 22:22 222222 2222222? i222“: i‘wmmrﬁiaﬁ “he: Wu £22222:
“2:2: ﬁniﬂﬁmm

9? i > “L ‘30 k . £1 1kﬂd Q. M! @0122: tt‘ 2*: {b Lax £22: (5. ﬂu” Kn; V”. .. .335324 a 1“
his: ’16::Vb ‘ émﬂy at ’ 3C4!~ ‘. ‘ eg-ﬁ» 1:3 A. in“: J, 12...; J, ' 14141-1 11.1,.- 4 23A ,'§,42§.\3 $1,}.
It}: ~53 "gt”: a» 5 “I. ‘14 ‘5 gm.- 2'». ”.37 35222222»: “2‘2: “222*: M "$429123 ~ ‘. «Jaw-.1? m . "-3 2‘3 ‘ 2-- ﬁwq :ﬁr. 2:» 2' ’V‘ I l ‘ ‘7': Flynn:
321543.21 viii-at a.) .2. Avg} «.3; ~ “£1,222. 2.222.... 3):» .2231»..- if“ it... . . 2.2;. arﬁg "£33. ‘41:“; 5:};ng T5223 ‘ . .- 21.14ng ganglia‘s“.
£222 £22 :“22222222: 2?: 12122: "2;. x: 2222,, ~ m . :22:“ £322: 2 2... ‘ " ‘
-.'* ' .222. an ,M ', a. 2.2. 4 x 32...:- '..'.A v ». 3.2.2:“ - ‘ _ 5: s2. ,2, .2 m 92,: .2 2.x. , .75., ...-. 2 4 .
‘ i“: “rm: '3. o. *2 w- "2 s. 3' 52-45223: .5“! .y m 2. ~24 2~ ~~ “'72". “I . {22 ~~ - 2 4’. .2 w:- 2. wary-27,2224? 227‘. . 2
ﬁmﬁﬂwuﬁ 5.12:5 2 2 ’3 2-2:. .2; 132.25.221.73: “.2. - . ,. 2:22 .. 2 2w“:

. ' 2 3 2 2.22. - -~ . : 2, ..~ . r v ., . . - .. 2‘2'. I. 2 hr . , if:
-, ,. . 2, 1 q ‘4‘ v, «4 v 1” . ‘ .-~. ‘2‘ .2 I“: >, . ~* 2: . ... .‘ ‘ - | in 2,,222 _2.~, _; ‘1" 2. 2— V _, 2. - 4‘ ,m-ﬁ ,1: .. , .2,_ #2. .-: ‘43, f . ,4, 1:2. «0 ... 51‘ 4.2““ m a}
£543 @331“? E 2. j .2 2 2. 25.! , ‘ 2 a .2 . . . . 2 . .- . . . . : .- - ‘ -2 V 22 . u :- 2:, 2, ' -4 Q;
h ,m Q: ‘55” 2,92.) .2. =2. ., (’4. 32b. 2 3242., f,‘ ‘2. 2' ,2 .,-~* ' c .- ,,- ”‘2. .. 7." ,. .2 , . ,2 , {75.2, . 2.1.22.2; . i 2. .R. 3‘. i212..." 292),,4ﬂww? aim» w 4415;? , him
, aw -- w. .
. 2 403 . 2w: 2'2 ‘2. ., .' I ‘ a: I .2, d .
’ y . ~ , ', ran. .2 . W» in». my a.» we! ,1..- , , g: . , . , ‘., 2, ‘ . a“ .2 gap»: 2. ~99 j, ‘.;' .v ; , ~2, “.3535; p, v. 4..., :1_- ‘ 2,- (4" x, ”my, ,. 2- 2: - g. {“2"
( g ’ 13‘ Eli 2,! 3:31 -2 .1 ' ,‘ .2, ,~2 _»,- ,. : ...2 .22; T a - 2 .221 . 2» . - ,’ , 2 2‘ .
ﬁg 3“ ' rt m 4%“? t4 2%. Ex.)- “14.22 ‘m’a‘ £2 ' ,1: " , . .2. . 2: , \L 2 ’4 2» 4: {.42 L-N is: A .z-‘Er. "H: g“: Mun-25$ zjmji in; U2“: $5M WM&.J.,.’& , 44.32 3. ‘IIEL 03:- Q...‘ E
2" ‘
, , an. 2 . a; 2 .. . 2. . _ ,
4?;32 3 1, ”guy; t 1,2,. . ., ‘ ,jﬁ .2 ‘ , ,3 7‘ _4 “I ‘ ‘ 1”: n, 0,, ._ . ,,," ,, ,‘, v.1 ;, a"; g" '3 1‘ ,,__ “'1 It.“ .,..: ' 1 ._ . _ 2 , V . A“) ; 1 . ‘2"":~‘"‘:’ ..,2 . ”.1; ﬂ, 2 .. -. , ,4, .'- "0-0.1 4% , .
2 > , 2": x 2 ' - 2' , . . - ’ .2 2 ' . '2. . ‘- ‘ 2» v .12 1 , , - , ' - . 2, 3. 2'. ., ‘ . 2 1.22222 _.’2 , . ‘ ,
1t ,mu 2...?» gt 2... c '9 ' 4'5 a. x 2:, .. a, .2. .4.» . 7: 1 2 » 4* * . 2, .2 A ,2 .. 2 2, «5.2-2....- ~ 11.. 232.223., 24' 2: .2 ”22...: 2 In :L 2,. :. ”22,3221: $21 :6 ‘2,” 5.. , -. 513.2» {Hun—"41. k. '21:; ’3‘
“P w‘ ,2 1-K! '2 2, , 2 g, ‘ 2 , ~_ .
£33,230 {341 _ [,9] . ,_. 52,, 2: ,0; 2“,; .1” 5:, .22: .. .2 ,. , , 2, .2 , 22., ,. . , . . ..2 x . .. ' ‘1 ,4 .2 22,19, 3 ‘ ‘2. 2., 2 y , '1, .2}: : 2 ,., g: ,1: ,_.. 1: ., .2 v.5. {22‘ .12.: ,4. "hf
by: .22 j. "2.1) :11.» ‘2 -. - 2,»; 21.34.21, 127.3 :. ~ 4.2:. : 2 2. :2, |. .. .. " 2.2.“ - . ,2, 4“,! . ' 3:", , .2. ,. 2.41. ié-‘aﬁ '. :. Li I“; “gut“: ms: ‘ .13.. .:_';-.,i.:; h? {Jud M ’92.!
‘ :W 22.
{2’ .pr ‘2’; a}: 1-: {2,22,}?- 143 1., v.2 i" ‘ . .3,» f “2,, N r. ",2. ‘T , 2.? ’ , ,._., 4,. .-., w- 4"? ' ”n , '2,» . . .; 4.. ., ,2 w. . , ._ ,. "I ., 239,22 . ".3 ‘1 3., w.
-. - "ii - r- ' 2. ' w 2' 52., ,u, :'2 . 1 tr 2. 2 » .. 2., , ~, 5: , -. . ;,, __ _ -; .
3‘ in U , N3 4*! 229v (2': 11" «54445.:3 g- 12-». X 0'2“ w..- ’2 I‘ ~ , m.» : «A 4i w: ,2 ‘ ,m. .. 5., 4.32,: A .,.,:‘ «VAL; “ r4 ‘2 . r, 12.2 :22 .~-~ - J22: 2* " - 2 2 N r ‘ -. 3,. 2'. {2.) «Lu ‘,.,-J. h m 2.1!»; a: .2 '. 5 ‘..) n2 ., u.‘ A 2.2% Eli's". -
.. - ru. .2 . 5, ~ .. . 2
. mg 1 ‘2... .2 ,. 2.2- _‘ ‘ , ,_ . , .. 2» .: . , _,..§ 2 ,, ..2 $ . 2' 7‘ “hi, ,n,_ ., ix V . ,3.
. . . 'r: 2 . . y m... 2 ,2 2.... >3 . .- ‘2 ._ . .x. 22,2 , . ,2. ,2. ,,1,., . y. ‘. . 2,, ,2 .- ,. n 1'2 12.; 1.. 222 '. -,.. :1 -2 L;- z. .4422, «.9... \J-vau m ... he, ,. C 3
.: J E . 7X
lh'h '

444-? ~32" ‘ 2 r 2 ' 2.2.2.. :2 2i 22' mks. . 2L. "I: 2..., ’9 2.2 ,2: J3. . ',; .. , . 2 . -...2 N, 2- x ,
i: 21:. ﬁlliﬁ- 3Y1:’§2~“3 7-”2272‘22 222 2'22. .2 =2 .1 =22“ ,2. 2:2 25...: 2 wheﬂ 2,222: 24:28.3“;
2222:: 23:21:22: 22:22:22“

533:3??? - 3* 2 22222:: Jmﬁwai‘kaﬁ

‘9

\

bineazmly “22...: ,

“$1.23 3:122 3:122:22?
Emamtim 5:222er 2r
0!

 




Aﬁiﬁéi‘ﬁﬁLﬁéﬁﬂ IRSTIEUTE
22 East EYiﬁ Stﬁeet
ﬂaw Kara 33 New Eark

ﬁecambar 2d, 1957

ﬁrs¢ Isohel Slater, ﬁE.E.
Diragter, K.SaF,C.A., @anganyika
PQOQ Bax lth

Ear es Salaam

$3nganyika3 E.A.

ﬂagriﬁrs. Slater:

In behalf of ﬁrﬁ. Stavana whﬁ igiaway frmm.the city far Ewe weeksa
I acknaﬁlsdga.yﬁur latter Qf'gﬁﬁgmng lhth “high haﬁ juat baam racaivad.
In Octabar ma receivad an inquiﬁy fygm,tha'%nitad‘$ﬁat68 Infgwmaiian Agemcy
m waahingmn, mnmg wf WW5 iﬁwmm ‘91“ abtammg "the? 1%” Qf & 165m
film mn'B?¢ ﬁchwaitzar.“ gﬁ ﬁbﬁﬁ ﬁimﬂ mg ehmmkaﬁ with the Lauis ﬁe Recﬁammnt
Agaeeiataa’whic% disﬁribuﬁa$;%Mia films andffamnﬂ that baa film i3 net
availabm in 16m am will mam ﬂair 52—22er mar w aiathn mam» ‘53
ﬁeld tham.alaa ta infarm.yvulﬁﬁaﬁ if*ymu maﬁa intareﬁted in thaéning &
'35mmigrint yam mania aammuﬁicaﬂﬁ difﬁﬂtly?With ﬁr» BﬁTﬁﬁﬂ ﬁacﬁ at th&
ﬁg Rﬁﬁhamﬂﬁﬁwﬁﬁﬁﬂﬂiaiaﬁp 38% ﬁadigaﬁ;évenuﬁ, ﬂaw Egrk City. From.ymur
letta? 1 agﬁwmm.ﬁhat bhiﬁ imfarmatiam hag ﬁavwr bagm fmrwayﬁaﬁ tg yam from
Hﬂﬁhinﬁtama ‘i .

I hava tmdﬁy talkaﬁ with tha ﬁg ﬁasﬁamﬁﬁi agamciataaﬁ anﬂ iafarmgd
tham that it 3% a 3§mm.§rini‘whichjyeu ara intﬁraaéeﬁ.ir mgt a ﬁﬁmm. I
am,infbrmﬁﬁ that th@ actual east priae af agah print 1% $1,00G; it i5
axpenaiva bacausm~af tha mmlﬁr*amﬁsl@agﬁh. 11 ﬂﬁﬁhmﬂ ﬁhat yam w$a1&.nmt
be $blﬁ tn yurchaﬁa a aeyyﬁ 3m 1 am.iny$ﬁtigaﬂing ﬁne pﬂﬁﬁihilitﬁ‘ﬁf ‘
gecuring nag far rental; As gown aa 3 mavagﬁha inﬁermatimm am éhia, I
.Will write yam again; fl hG§Q thﬁg will.%&§wiﬁﬁiﬁ the maxﬁ'wmak G? ﬂan ﬁﬁyﬁ-
Besauaa amnﬁimg a film a3 far away 35 gfrima wamlﬁ taka & $yin$ aut_af
Circulatimn far“soma ﬁima, iﬁhia»mgt‘gt,ailf$vi%"that raatal‘wwmld,ba
y0a$ihla, but 1 sincerely ﬂopﬂ that gmmathiﬁg mam b@.wmrk&d ﬂat far gna.
ﬁnfertunaﬁalyﬁnaithar ﬁhﬁ ﬁnimal ﬁélfare Znatétutg mar.ﬁra. ﬁﬁﬁvans hag
any diﬂaei caﬁnactiem'wiﬁh ﬁhia film and ita handling.

7 VSiﬁcﬂraly'yauyaa

Eﬁﬁalla ﬁragar
ExamuﬁiVe ﬁaawataﬁy

 




g ,3
, . . 7
at.

‘\_

ark

1:?

“i

‘17. {7

 

o,"

1mg 2

l!

,. t-
.C

r- r
‘.
'\
Ihd.

£7: (3-.

-31
(3'
-.,{

«a
(I: I.

F“

r1
C42

3 3,"

|‘

3' I71 1

.«L
b

nyw

nga

1'8,

x
,J.

. 1’

nval»

i

6'

11
L)

woulﬁ

if

“ 5..” l
.1 RJ ,

4"
.L C

-.
$
1

(:1
L

gtruggm

'l

rmF

,1.“
,-,‘ .L

'1‘)
t, J.‘

I‘

'F

13 C: O

Ilia-w
5
.4,

V6

If“

S

i

 

 




4.0 own: 9: rnnnAAlv

.4532 Nazi/COMO >m 92mm MO
Qm0m<mum3m mm Hub») EH mmOQ .5 n: mmmMDmOAUZm
>Z< ZSFHZOU HOZ QADOEm MMFHmA Mix Z<

A Au A}. .
a‘a.n~ncoocuse.cau..-u-u.--u.uo.--.-.JA.ou-toono.nut-ouo.a-o¢-o-0Av:mnona.uu:--9¢-‘.o.-unu—
a «A
( « 4AA .. ...A1.A,
MANAJJZAN AAAAHA
....................A........H:t.1....;.3...»:
a e A519 \3 a
4 n
,. rx.

0-.poms-QW“.OG‘IHA~".ﬁlAIAWIQAv..AWHAMIUA'AAOHA.AW-.|‘DQAAAW.C.CAU.AI.III-OHWOO.AVI,A~IM~.AIIIA..-;ICCIIIUQ.M1AWHIIWIIA'!o-‘O¢IQIIICl“mmuuﬁnw ”JG“ “Egg mAhUﬁﬁhfdw
. I, A u A _ n: . . .. , (Arr

A 22 22 38% v

3......qu......-...¢a...n.....u...o.-..c...-.o.............o..uu..o.-..-.-.n..~

»

.n.v.u.....o....a.q..o-..u..uo......-.u-..au1..uo:~n(...o.qunnu..»... a.“

H.
J
S
1
J
W
D.
U.
9
J
9

¢.-.sono.-..u.-...-..u...'uu...-.o..co...u-.o-opr..uoa-.-n.noon-ucnnnaaozuoununuo...u..-o..¢..o--...ouou..

f.

..V.Ao........
., .A..A...A:t...§t:

A .zAivvnlliql7 ' ,Q Agxkill WI“
oﬁuyowAe. .. N0. a

lu-.t.nn-o.-.-.an..ov...u......uIn.onnc-ouun-oo-nntaocoa-.uuooouo~us...nun...-.nuunon.o.n.cco¢.uounau!

A M A 0 ii . A“ km
. k. \ . . q, .
.A a. v. ._ r_. A

An
tun-1......‘uu......n.......-.‘....co.....‘..¢.-...c.-.ann.......A..-.:.uc........a...o....€....o...o-‘--ononu.-wo
.\
mo 3 , .2 A
A." . A 4 w“.
lézl , xuwArA
r

a

LT!

\ .
acuaA.....v...ovAA.A2\1. ..vxﬂ..__....a.uu... 1A.;
.. v . _ . h .A A

Loon-t.-..(Au..w...-Il.lv.|w\cJ\Is1_...-o..-?4..\J0UIA~....L-4~wauiln.........................-...-.oocccnn
.. AA“ .,... .Awa. , "m

.qurﬁllellq...r.Aml

_
. .1: (t
.1

LVA A . m
u:

Dunno-onus.non-oo-c-.-.cuooau..ann.a..n..v.... .¢u.u-.’uo$.nun-conAnmL-lrnicua.ououu-¢.non-nunuuuc:.u..nac.Inst-«noncoauoooa-naaro

\

.a «:3 ..

....A~ .A .A

A!
{a

T
A/\ m22<mwomm<

Mmrﬁrﬁmq MH<

ZO~>< m<n~

.

A, $9

. _ .A ‘A. .A
.. ,r/ ”r, Q,A\~\A_\

 




33.21:; 5.11.315. {lee 251:“ M11125 _, he}.
gﬁébllhibiﬁv

ewe heeiw 1' «eeh

Wei, 5555555155.“ eee heeeeh
hetheh hhethm Sewiee ~
1555 1.5515 151.55% Eefhreetieh
heeh 1.515;: 1.55mi. 33.1 C1.

1155115 hie 5% heeieedt

’1: 15555555 451555551 115 thee 551’ Oh he: 9tn 55555555555551.5555 the peeW

511“” 55 “three. 357511551 5555 11115 51555551 351555551. thee... 1. he1ie55e he 1 1.151
hree 1111511255? ‘eefhre he 1.55 1155. "55111555151 1.15 the ette Ghee phtgrﬁeta
5.515.515“? 5.5515me he heme whiting he he 5511.55 the “113555111155th5 hf
thie 555 55.51 55.15 1.55 115.51.51.55 heetmheteh he" twine he weheeeet
heeee ieteeﬁ 31165 hehiew hhhrmhg he‘e ’1th 61%;.

1 11555555 ﬂeet 155511555511 551th 111155.11 115515515 1151515155 511‘ 51555. $11155 eeh

he 1.7555555 5551 1.11551. the 1‘ .1155. he 555115 heeilehl’se 1.55 15151555 e515} 551.11
net he 115151 emthee 555551: 555. 55.1. 1515555515 5555511151. 315; he 55.. 1155135511 .
he 155th Y‘hﬁheh 1e eetemm... 55 1555155 peﬁet, ehe eheeh. 51heea: mete
5111515 hm "Men heee he he; 5. eeeeeieteee he... wee ie

1.55 heme 15511515511551 115 hameeeete... 111.5555 £2155th hwieew thet

the eheeee 555551151 he " 5.1, hut hf eeerhe the ehiephze charge
he em wee heee he he 5551.55.

11" he ere metereeteh 1e thee file 1551: heeeetie 5151.555 Weeieetiehe
eheehh he ehheeeeeh he heee heeheh o

_ emeeeelh 2113mm

hhwlle Breper
Ahheeetiee Sweetery

 




UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY
WASHINGTON

October 9, 1957

Gentlemen:

Mrs. Isobel Slater, General Secretary of the Tanganyika Branch of
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has asked
the assistance of our‘U. S. Information Service post in Rairobi, Kenya.
in procuring a loan of a 16mm film on Dr. Albert Schweitzer. Mrs.
Slater informed our officers there that during her recent visit to the
'United States she was told by Mrs. Stevens, President of the Animal
welfare Institute, that such a film can be made available by this
Agency's overseas posts.

Since we have no knowledge of sueh.a film, we are writing to you
for information. If you distribute a 16mm film about Dr. Schweitzer,
we would like very much to have an Opportunity to review it. Will you
be kind enough to have a print sent express-collect, addressed as
follows:

U. S. Information.Agency
Nation Picture Service
1776 Pennsylvania Ave..N.W.
washington 25. D. C.

Attention: Mrs. Laura warner

Any assistance you may be able to give us in this connection will
be greatly appreciated.

Sincerely yours.

Mbtion Picture Serv as

The Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York, new Yerk

 




UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY
WASHINGTON

actaber 9, 195?

Gﬁntlemen:

Era. Isobel ﬁlater, ﬁeneral ﬁearatary 9f the $anganyika Branch 0f
the §oya1 ﬁcciety far the Freventioa of Cruglty tn ﬁnimﬁlg h~$ agked
the agsigtance of our'ﬁ. E. Infoymatign ﬁﬁrvice'paﬁt in ﬂairohi. Kanya.
in prneaying a ldan of a 15mm film on Dr. Alhert ﬁchweitzer. ﬁra.
Slater infarmad.our efficers thera that auriag her recent viait to the
ﬁnited Sﬁateg ﬁhﬁ was tolé by ﬁre. Steveng. Ereaident 0f the Animal
Malfarg Ingtituta. that such a film 8&n be maﬁa available by this
Agency‘a averaeaa pestg.

Since we have no knawleﬁge 6f such a film, we are writing tn you
far infarmation. if yam.distributﬁ a 16mm film gboam Ew. Schweitzer.
we wouléAlika very much to have an appartunity ta review it. will you
be kina enaugh ﬁg have a print gent eXpresﬁ~collect, $défesEEd as
follaws:

ﬂ. 5. Infarmationvagenmy
Nation Picture ﬁarvice
1??5 Penneylvania ﬁve.,ﬁ.¥.
Vaskington 25. B. C.

Attentian: Mrs. Laura ﬁarnar

Any assistance you.m&y be ab1& t0 give H3 in this connectian will
be greatly appreciated.

Sincerely yours.

Becky Sanford
Chief, acquisitions Branch
§0tion Ficture Eervice

Whﬁ animal Welfare Institute
32 East 17th Street
Rev York. ﬂéw Ybrk

 




JMMMMMM 2M3

MMMM EMMMM1_51M$MTM:ﬁa§$EQ
{5/9 Ragapagaﬁa

f’gﬁa EM lfﬁisiig ’thv‘ «55:; EEMEMMMM
MMWMMWM - a A“

'2 w i" W M
EMMM 2M; E ,2

X MMMM MW 1MMMMM Mf MMMMMMM if?M M.aﬂﬁ MM MMMMMMMMMM
MMMM MMMM MMMMMMM, E M”E MMMMMMM yMM MMM MMMMMM MM MMM
lMMflMM MMMMMMMMMM MMM MMMM MMMM “MEMM 1 MM MMMMM MMM
MMMM uiﬂw M MMMMMW EMMA MM MMMMMM MM MMMMMMMM MM M
MMMM awa‘ﬁziﬂﬂ i§ﬁd MMMM M}MM MM“ Mglﬁ MM MMEM MM MMMK
MMM M “MbM13 Mﬁﬂﬁ MM ”M x “M Mtg

MMMM MMMMMM MM MMM MM MMMM

MiMMMMMlM MMMMME

EMMMEIM MMMMMM
MMMMMMMMM MMMMMMMMM

 




.C.A. Tanganyika Division,
0.Box 1844, Dar es Salaam,
Tanganyika, E.A.»

e. , P
17th January , - . P
1958.

Miss Estella Draper,
Executive Secretary,
Animal Welfare Institute,

22 East 17th Street, New York.

"Dear MiSS Draper,“ ‘ . p f
I thank you very,very much for your two

letters re. the Schweitzer film. I am most sincerely grate-
ful for all you have done to help, and please thank Mrs
VStevens also. As you say, the cost would be quite beyond
:ﬁk”, our reach to rent the film for two m0nths,in fact,if the
/ ipggfﬁlm came by sea,it would take at least a month to get
3 here, and another month to return,allowing a few days here
Wﬁu for showing. However,l am firmly convinced that the film
3 should be shown in Africa where it could do inestimable
égood,both for the human species as well as in the interests
of animals. I think it would beta serious omission if such a
Vtruly wonderful film of the life of such a splendid person
. would not be shown in Africa, end I cannot think why a
{pppgeneral release for this country could not be made. In
\ﬁfxifact,I had been informed in N.Y. that a copy of the film
'had been sent to the Belgian Congo through the USSIS, and
felt sure that with a little pressure I would have been able
to get it for E.A. I‘:eem to have been sadly misinformed, as
I now get the co rectﬁf §3~u _picture from your kind letters.

 

 




 
   

   

D

To open cut here

7" . A q ‘
33 a 3

 

I intend,when I get a spare few moments, to investigate the possibilities
of one or other of our Cinema Houses here,being interested in obtaining
the film,in which case we might be able to"do a deal", but I'm short of
one thing to show these Cinema people, and that is,a leaflet about the
film. I had one when in N.Y.,giving a delightful description of the film,
and there was a note from Mrs Stevens on the back, but on my travels,I haV3
mislaid it. I wonder if I could trespass on your kindness once again,to
send me a couple of the copies.They were,I presume put out as propaganda '
where the film was being shown in the States. I saw the film in N.Y? and
loved every moment of it. I’m only very regretful now,that I did not have
the time to go into the matter of getting a copy for Ianpanyika,then, but
I took it for granted that the USSIF would import such a very essential
film for Africa. Again, my most grateful thanks for your kind help, and
I only wish we were norso desperately"poor a country"'

     
      
       
   
         
        
 
 

S

Sincerely *0 rs

 
 

   

      

 
 

f/CD “‘4; meai j;
(tin/WV”: $052. 73X»? M i.) incl/Lg Lasuaxwgé
3 3“ W a... 33: 333W as

 
 

 

 
     
 

 

    
 
   
 
  
 

{—First fold here -—_f-)

 

 

 

 

a .
H1> § § 3
g 2 : ~ 5 E ”:2
[-1 m 3 3 or—ew
8; 5 i E Em:
g 35,3
235 . = é as
0:2.e3 i E a g g ;
whim : E - : 3 :Ef:
”9H 3 3a a '5 Q : = ,ﬂ53
wtdcn E 0% ég ; s g ; wﬁ
“<85 f”? :3 w :éc’éas
om: 3:w 333%"!
753-4!" 8030 Elm—d. 9": 'Ei.’ :Sc:(+
Cir-3U :15 1545\301 jog: 5 <13. aH'd-gm
H 5 5 a so a: ' g 23’*ﬂ“
5.452 3;; H: :6‘ ar: 'Fgméﬁ’sgﬁ
w w<3 5 §E§?’§Ea 3% Mao N22 i
*3“: as 32m? ~ rowsawsm
w 9-» s. so: >'K'm!n3o H
gtﬁ(3 ' tnsu n4 v - :3 +40 m
>020 gms. :51" wmgbbdetd
F1C12 4 H§63§c+ 'gc+§;ggg
. 3 3° 3(1) ' : g
(’3’; assuage 55,3323?-
H ' 3 I» ' : :
E22 §> mg: 5g: fig;§ﬁ<g
SCI}: E0 5 ""3
c733 7m: :w ‘5 .3» 2
m2 H: 2° 331:3.
‘7“ 33°: EE‘J 2g
.53 3' 1d”
2 m

  




R.S.P f.C.A.Ta13ganyika Headquaters,
P.O.B ox 1844, Lai‘es Salaam, Tanganyika,E.A.

24th March 1958.

Dean 1ss Draper,
Many,many grateful thanks for your letter and enclos—
ures,3ust received. I am greatly indebted to you for all your kind efforts
on our behalf. , _
l he ve just heard that there is film.of Schweitzer
showing in London ~ whether it is the same one or not,l don't yet know,but
I'm making efforts to find out. If it is the film in question, then I
,‘ 5 may have a chance of obtaining it. I'll certainly make a good try and
*fg make a deal’ I have set my_heart on getting that film for Tanganyika
1%; screening.
fhank you for the cepy of your annual report. It is
most interesting. I see you make much mention of laboratory research.
Hateful business,if only we could find a way to ensure that poor def-
iencelese creatures would not suffer. 'l have been able to stop a great
é”; many small animals leaving this country for the laboratory. We,fortunately

here, are spared such a harrassing problem. On the other hand,we have

lg';1§ §;?crueltl s untold, to deal with. I am JUSt about to PUt a Mobile Unit
1 on the road, to try and cope with So much suffering to animals, whiCh

it is almost impossible to deal with from our Headquarters alone. This is
sucha vast country,with so little in the way of normal conm unications,that

it is a hard struggle to reac“ f-to the vast interior. ‘ Again,with all my
grateful thanks for four Qdaﬁg” ‘ ,y-est wishes to you all at the Institute.

 

 




Pnimal'welfPFP Iﬁﬁtituﬁa
22 East 1?th “P‘Q
Pew Park 3, E V

‘3 «MG

Pptﬁmhﬂr 3} lﬁﬁﬁ

’iﬁa GPPE PEPPPP
S. P S: A:
J. “P1 lﬁﬁﬁ
FﬁameWAali 2mg

. «ﬂy-f.“ 3.“; W" a?“ “4‘3 "1" 3:1”;
13‘? -' 32“. ms"; 4»; Pxﬁfuﬂ (‘3, $3: L. we:

ww .. .~ 1'1

H «(My ‘ w 4‘“: «

£M§tﬂi¢ 5"}; LJ g; wn’.‘ “gm?“ -/.~
,.

_ 4 “p.~mp -_ H , I ‘ng'ln " .ﬁvv-V‘ . : ' 1 C
m L, $533321} $33 3: “ ~ , -;. ~~‘ C3£ {ingli‘j‘dﬁ’t
314‘; ”C é IV". 1 '1 C u "i - ' = 7‘ 15". A ‘ « ‘ ,, a h ’ .1 .' _ '3:- ~ I C?“ "3.; ~ >20. ‘1 {’3'}? 1
”is: a .4”;- .’ ~54 - - ~ 1 V ‘ ‘ i; $9,»? Eimﬁ Firm
5:3 . J L" ru #2: ‘2. ‘- I! ' . . . I,” ’ : '" ﬁg , a; .T’ I .V f: ' .: «1::— z I 31' in? 31g; Wag ‘11:]on 1‘ 3 G1:

9

a: W
.: .v m: gram 5‘ u.»-
41‘ka P 1.: C: k 3"«éj

n. ‘Q ‘5
w v; my 3 ~‘ , 7, " ‘
* 1%.; 3 i it“ 1, %,.L La: 1.. -.4 4‘

{:1 5*?"9
9"‘7 P in? at

a.
" v._~,_ «

‘I
P ‘.' ‘ 2. ‘
$9“: :c «a 1: mi “Tin 1'1 1.1;}: Q“, I

ﬁagt‘
ig Q13.“ {51;
,,. M ., 'i?
mmm
9:. - a '
PMPPP ix
Fuaiv~~bﬂ

1

{P :1 P Tﬁ1231cw=‘ﬁ‘“ f Pan~a

Quﬁﬁﬂiﬁhﬁa ‘5wﬁ P;AS mﬁ RPS”: jﬁfwgﬂ'*“ur in .*m ém am3w :
0y Pha Paﬁiﬁ 9; Lzarxﬁ mun“ HQP’ﬁ P; :JHJPPPPP HQ PPP P;§:{M
Pf can crwn £9 , Pava;y$v. g wrii iﬁ
far {3 Pv rmiﬂc “ PX Patu ”P3 313 PP» Vauaiz: Prmﬁhujay
at m E @a ﬂat kmaw‘washhﬂy PP i“: "r¢;-~:m'1 swlw VDﬁg
PEP :Pﬁey ﬁg haww GPZT” $1 Pmﬁiva atame Av ”Uf’I. -~ a? 1 PL
S {3: Q., :E Pa: m» anftd*, i 63$“i “P1 12&

zéﬂaﬁiﬁ .Pviﬂv.

.1.
Ci: {53

ﬁlﬁﬂarakyg

 




s 0 ca E W
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUE LTY TO ANEMALS

TANGANYIKA DIVISION HEADQUARFERS
P. 0.". Box 1844..m?eﬂephme MM,

Alla mm Wat ms should be BAGAMOYO STREET,
addrogo dot “the. Gem mgso m mt y 1,.»AR—ES~SALAAM, T.T.

y: 0.6:”!- “293'

 

.19. 5a}!- !‘(ﬁ “ELQUA f" '
-4; ILL»!- 6’“ Z
59-” ”“93 JWW ‘39»- b a ”$4.51. 3 ”m

4- a”“&*wc‘&, WM“ Jr’uw 3.
Wm :aglva-k W ﬁff.
. QcJ “
how”— W ”~49!
”Tim;

”foamy—“Hm“?

 

 




., :Ea , a;
, Vréﬂw J (afﬁx

.7 s ..

 




(12.2331232- 16, 3.958

.3 . 1331231 5131.223, .. .1".
~2.3. 332 1333

17133 33 CE221223222

233223231123, 13333 3.335.223

T232331“ E33. 3112:2332? ‘-

"£213 3223 2131122312222 ‘1222 1.2232322 1.12223 32322 12333 1.2332: 331.3 '
1‘23 32.333221 222222212332 331332.333 322:1 12.333 322.23 32312 22:11.1 1:333
122 32222312. 32.1211 223 33223322223223 3123 311.22.231.33.

"23113213 you 1’33 332231.223 3.232222 3222222333. 3:221 3:223 (1322.223;
3 3322213223121. 32:23:33 22f 222.2312, 323 223 23.1.2212 37322. 323333 1.22
332.21. 3.2. "223222." 322213333223. :32“ 21.22.331.222“ v1.31 332:1 1155322213 122
1.133 33221333 3321 1133.221 :11. 3311222231121. (3322331221132 3E3 3221222313
2222233 1:23 3223322222321 31; 31.1. 333 33. I 3222 1.3121 the: .22: 1.123 13:11.3
312131312322 32233 3333 2223213 52222222 1113 33331, “$123 33333 of."
33.22233“ 332 1132223122 (12.2237 5.3 222331: 322.331.13.23 11.22 31.1.22 33;; 2331.3
32:2 31:3 3233333133122 31‘." "2133 313.232.3213.. I 122:2223- 1‘33 333 it
33322. * 132.212.3322 it 332221.221 1:23 22332:: 21.22. 332223 333 “33123122 3232.3:
332512;.

3132- 32:1. 13 3 13331.31; 2.222132113171321 3y 31:23 E1312232‘Si £1.33
2322333312222 £223 3221222321. 12311333, .. 1222313221: 3.. 22 2:21.33 I 3223322223
222131222. 3323.333 123 22333223. £22.22 3,2322. 21.22 332232.213323132231223312.
1213 123223 12232221 31231:. 132232213322 312112122322 1.3223 1.1:.

3333 2331133,

'1 81223 3.33.1.3,

 




' 22222: 222. 552.5225» 2:522:22 522522
22 _ East. lf'hh St.
55222-2 5221512; 3 , 552.22 York

8323552252222? 293 1958

P.{.). BOX 182 3;
Dar es Salaam
Tangawika, 532225. Mrica

532222225 22m. $122529”

.57 mi. 52527 5‘22222'25-352212532'5225 in 221255 2252mm? 3222221‘ 122255265: of 55522352222233.2255 6252....
I 55125 c 23.5. 5.5225 25 .2223 0555.232 2.222 52222522 223 3222223? 12255222: ﬁamivad, 2252255 522222255
5.522252 32222:::5° 35252522255 22.522255225521222: 512225 ”2:22-22:25 2222222 52522225 55.2222 555222252222 22522)
52223 replying; far 522‘. 55222222. :23 55152222 250253.022 2222235 have told you, 552*.
5522239 222222 22553: 2:252 vacatian 25225 525.8 2222251 5222225 been, held on hi... 25223122
5.1222255252252522225233.

2.2.52. {52225223525 52.52.5552... 22222 5252 5:5. 2525255555 55215:“ 522255 5J30121‘“? 3.2255225:
from 33:22... 5 22.2225 552.... 5.5222 1.22- .2.1}... .52 .1; 515551-525. 222252 2222222325215.” 2252522225225;
date, .2552: 2222; armmem 2222.52, 222.. #5222225 2:2-2173' 222222.252. 2351.255; you 22.2.11 be
22521.6 5.22 52:22.2 +1522: 53:5? ...22 22222.5 5.25. 2. :5 .222 mum-25:23.22 522:: 322222. in 3522255
862222322 525.2222 22015522,.

‘ I. 5522: .25 3.522222" 3.537 F 522;:2222 I. 2... 5.2: .22.... 22.22....» 2.22225 25022232222223.2525 322222.
2:222 5.5222 2222123222212. 2222:2552: 37222.2. .2255: 512:2 5.22222; 222225525. $2222.22: many 52223255552125.3922 and
255.2.“ 51022-5210... 2.1. 5.3.22.2? 22»- is. 5222;."5525.2:23 E. 52.2.22 2:52;: 5.52 32523.22 .5‘2'523222 5252.522
dis 2.222222 52.22, 5210.25”: 3.25252 2225: 5.222222. ‘ ' ‘ ’

52:22:22: “52255.61“ of 5.3523“ .5222? 5:555:52 5.22 32:55:52. 522522522525 12.2222 32.2525. 2255255222255.
She ".52 25:22:32,592: has}: 51522222 ..2'2g,.2...222. 3.2252215 5.5115; “22222252 am: 3; 5222022 that
she 2.3.3.3.. 2:52.255. 5.5; 22:25.12 222222.252 .2525222522 5.. .222 5.2.22.5 52225222151” 1 2252225 5.0 5.5222225:
ymz fox 23.22.2515, 228 the 1.22.5» 5;. 222-2225.. camera-mg; the: expert 22f monkmfﬁ.

-5'.h 525522525 r: 2.2225252 5222252 521 3. 235222 22-25 "2255252622, I am

33.1522212rely :murﬁ ,

Estella Draper
Executive- 3622252225213"

 




u , 1

_ r A. __ . I - w _ 1 *L
V ; ("l " '1 e“ ‘fo (a: n" V?" ) Q, g """ (-1 . I 3,, C! ff. .r r; 1 :j‘ T» f) 'Y‘C"
fl 0 m! o .3: o in 3 ii. j. UJ. ‘1'; CAI-‘3‘ Joixmua .331“! JthlCEI. ;., tale» ' “ g}..w..;. L ~- -... L; ,

.5; V:‘\. T“). I K" . . ‘ . _‘ ., {ﬂ (:1 h: 1‘. '5'?“
i t k} . _’, ' \.~-7"'~‘“ ,i.-‘.I F3 iii iJC. dual,

.~I

» n1 ..

T3 -:" . “u ., f-x ’

ireeiocnt,

" ' . '1- w“ r "'95. ~:. "
1Jﬁﬂﬁ&i .welfeeta Ins

. _, m
A r) Q? 41‘, r“ ”‘
L1... eggs»: 'U

- 4' 5:“; 7 \?'('~-_ “Pig -

 

ﬁtevens,
‘7 r ‘ ‘ W 1 r' ‘ .~ .I/‘ ‘1‘ '7 ’ Z ('1 q "
Phenl gOh.SO sues tor your letter,osteo Bro
see most kind of you to write eXpressing your interest

1
x
E

rt of IlOLliCySo
Actually,l has has the vague hepe that perhaps
teen sole to and another protest to this uovernment,along the
lines token by so sw"¢ other oversees animal welfare organisations, and l do apologise if
my letter to Hisn E'»ov grs ' , very cleer‘on this point. it has sen of the most invalw
usele help, the 3 a» a * 77"e~ net have honﬁsréed Government here u with the good result.
that the whole error L .I‘ «« vv; been susoenoed, for the time being at any rate. Public
Opinion is so important in e motter of this nature, and animal welfare organisations cert ~
einly hev, s lot of power. I hate been battling like meat to try and save our morkeys as
they ere all pert of the woncerful wild life of this country. Through all sorts of cruelty to
the wild life, the position has reellv got to the stage that if the wonoorful heritage of the

V

country is to he seveo for future generations of the peeple of the country, a very drastic

t...)

effort must he made. As uslel,it has fallen to my lot,to take u. the fisht,end I meet to

"egg on,until Government does an . '* ‘ complacency as regards the preservation of the
life must stop,snd reel 3“, :—i “or the nrotection of the animals. ,
the eXport cf monkeys,es has been approved, would have bee simply disasterj
one, and untold suffering would have resulted. I know monkeys so well,end.anW'thet even

to catch one,wonlé be nothing siert of inhumanity. Monkeys are such terrified little creet— 1
nres,end through suCh terror quickly develop all sorts of illnesses,eSpecislly when it comes
to keeping in cantivity,then c7sting and orporting. In my Opinion,l reckon that_few mon~
keys cen.resch any laboratory without being quite demented. What good this can be,1 don't
11k? t0 think. At the moment,ell air lines have put a ban on the carriage of monkeys —‘
even the air crews feel upset at the sight of so much suffering. Thank:you so much for l
the suggestion as regards the international Union for the Protection of Esture in Brussels.

I has not written to these people myself, but I believe one of my contacts has done so. The J
more organisations to know the true position of things here as regards the depreoations made
on wild life,the better. I‘oo wish UHO would take a hand. After all, this is a Trust
Territory and the wild life velongs to the country ~ not to be ruthlessly destroyed or given

J

ewe . I cannot contact UNO myself so I cannot get involved in anything which might become
a political issue — my husband is a well known person in this country, but in any case, my

 




ﬂ .
.m;;;gﬁ., ._- t 1 \
.l . ‘.' " i‘f’ -" ““19“ “'4 \
lolitiee are at the monentv w

a very disturbing eeﬁect in life here,and anybody eﬂgaéeé in animal welfare work amongst sﬁ'i
many thoueends of the African people,mU$t exerciee the UtmOSt discretion in avoiding any 00n”‘
travereiel eubject which could set off exy further flﬁmeSI' EOWGVGT: as far as I am able,I
encourage all my African members to help in the fight for the nrotection of the wild life, and.
in this wam hope to obtain good reeulte. The peoiﬂe,hOEF-fevery are S Primitive and mdevel‘

Oped for the most part, that it is quite an ughill struggle enlightening them in animal welfare.

1 have good friends in UFESCO,and have already infornec them of some of my troubles,
without of course, asking them.direotly to take action.

animal welfare organisation muet remain strictly non~politnce1.

You ask what methode are used for capturing the monkeys? well: if you could ert eee
the primitive African hounding down one little monkey, you would,I feel eure,be horrified.Thie
is one of the asgetts here which makes the capture of monkeye utterly inhuman and barbaric,
therefore one reason the ionkeys m et be protecteé from such callous cruelty.

Again, I thank you e0 very much for your letter, an& if at any time, the export of
monkeys from Tanganyika should commence, and to the U.S.A.,I Shall be meet eternally grateful
if you will assist in protesting against euch imports.

$incerely Yours,

l

<- mq 910; mm ->

ooooooooooo
................................
....................................
................................................
.....................................................................

...... ”too-"nun”nun“...u.uun.unHn....a-n....un...un.... .... .. ,

<-

>.
93
>
~51 ~u
$5;
>
>HS
E'a E
”(‘11

pd

"'1'
”5:
m1.

To open cut here

 

..................
("4 3"? -
9‘ ~31}

<— aml P10; PUG-Des —->

"IIVW AWNIGHO A8 lNEIS HO

CIEISHVHDHHS EH THAA .LI $30G ll 51
5MHSO'IDNH ANV NIVLNOC) .LON CI'IﬂOI—IS 331.131 HIV NV

.}:?.,.
Lei.

PIE/£6611 'ON ‘IeJauaD Janseunsod app liq PSAOJddB [mod
CY.
‘ezsgrﬁtxeilnegﬁ

 

“"“'e*en~r§‘reiexg-"feqo‘ejj""
‘einitienf exegfee {emruv

 

 

 




R.S.P.C.A. Tanganyika Headquarters,
F.O.Box 1844, Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika,E,A,

‘I.

\‘ \ .‘ ; ~
W . . ‘ L _
_ ' ~, V‘\‘.\. 5' w ‘ \» ~ ‘ p -
, . . t
‘\ ‘ , .
. . II‘ .
.xv“ . V v [.1 '
\ 2 so; ‘. . ‘
\ I ‘
_ A. . x y I
,_ .‘ \ 5‘. - ' ‘ . 3.". ‘ ,
. k ‘
‘ l , : . , “A . . , ‘ .
. . . 4-; ~ .

{$2,

. .(

/’ ~; .
V. ,‘r ‘r A

.14
st

; I“

6th September 1958.

Kiss Estella Draper,
Executive Secretary,
Animal welfare Institute,
22 East Street,l7th.,
Ken York,3, E.Y.

“ ‘ us
\‘\)\

‘ss

‘f\\‘. a
\E*

153 ‘ V

‘;\\,“ ..
_.._:~.._‘

Dear Kiss Draper,

I really do hate bothering you again about

"; b .-

‘iéésséepggap " the ”Albert Schweitzer" film, but I am so disappointed not having

had any reply to my letter to Er Borden Race,written on 18th July.,
when I had said that I was ready to meet the cost of the hire,as per the arrangement made

so kindly by Mrs Anderson.
Is there anything you could do to find out

why I have had no reply? I would be so very grateful. You will see by this letter,that
I am still intensely keen to get the film for showing here.

I have been going through a terribly try-
ing time with my organisation here,all due to the pr0posed export of monkeys! All I have been
able to accomplish to date,is that the permit to export has been suspended meantime. That,I
suppose is something,and perhaps I should feel pleased, but when I see so muoh.ghastly creelt’

‘ perpetrated against the wild life all over this vast country,l really feel that only an out
and out campaign to protect and save the wild life,will be in any way satisfactory at all.

I deeply feel that if I could get that

‘Schweitzer film,it would go a long way to convince the people in this apathetic country
that humanity to all living creatures,whethcr man or beast,is the answer to many problems

aflicting the peOple of this country today.
Under separate cover I am.sending you a

copy of my recent Report for 1957,which I have only had time to get out now. Life is just
one long crusade on behalf of the dofenceless creatures of Tanganyika.

I shall look forward to hearing from you,
and please do forgiye me for troubling you again.

Jith.kind regards,

since. re 1y ,

1x ‘ ‘ if 1‘ ,V , ‘ C“ .71 ‘ ”1 .ﬁ - r
nirector a UICQIISQI TOT lanpenylka.

WSQLZ’
m

 




AMMAL WARE INSTITUTE ’
22 Erastll7th St.

$193: York 3,‘ Raw Yark _' ‘ ' _ - 3

"February 22:, 1959

Mrs. Mabel 513mm 254.23%»
10.0. Box 181:1; _

Dar es Salaam

Tanganyika

Eaat Afriea

mar 25%: 'Iszmmra ‘

What incraéiblca mismanagemnt ‘ on him part. of 3:28 Hammer?“ .3
am a om that 3: we: ‘mmmmmi the. Scimeimar film '52: yen. Hawww ,4
whem we ch:- c1573: 7:375:75 f‘ﬁﬂffzd +35 3,273; it had final 1;: mackmd youwa-i: 133%
awarding: 4:75 57%“? 3371:5753: mfg-“3.73:3 3.3m. Ii Imp: $211: is ﬁrm anti that
it 2335,73 3723313733‘233. m 35mm. v After reading your livaly cements an ” {3556:3053
Kind Lima" 3, 31' (73:53:: 33:5,»: 033535: mm think mm 333533311333: ix”; Mrican
mm: about. 3:11:33: would be halpful “be yam. ' -

1425353 haw: “7‘35. 5W5 cervmsponding with a Faun: mm: :12). {533333, 1’37;me
Mama-ea 3212123273”, (557‘: is: amackmﬁ 12.0 Mm immimﬂiﬁ‘wa 333333333313 3.3335:
md gives: I'VE" m”: 723523 ($514713: an Riﬂﬁﬂeﬁﬁ 73,0 3:: ifs-71:13.33. 3:33:13...
yen want “be be: 133’: "135353931 153:}. 33h 32:33:35. :33“ 3.35:: :2 (35:33:33 @2533 mm of 113.23 3.333“,
which ha saint 333? 3.1; 53333 37mm. 13.63233, 1303, 32-3132 3mm: he: 3333(31’162333 5
m that: sawci AMrwlxs-m fmm 531331335129“. ﬁe; 1:3 V3373?“ 333333.333 ‘ca 3771.33.32;
Amrica. . Jugt in {-33:33- ymx ' 3333:3161 lil’m his ‘ 23633335235253 it is: 3555323333353 3333“
, Agricultnm, Mama}. 3333:3131": E‘rﬁrrﬁsmm {3033355233331 'ﬁ‘ete‘riimry-See'bimz,Gigi}.
363! 338,3 Accra} 5353233131.. ' 77 ‘ ‘ .

I Map: that 37m: will b: 31336333332331 withtha Empamr sf Ethiapia.
I saw hm a. 15. Ml: talk with him 7337153337231: was: in “333593 "farm but Em
would never rammber ma. "Mam: 1.53 “him ’3cancial abaut 5:313 mankaya £17933
Ethiopia that you speak 0?? ‘ 3 ' '

Yaw 1192133: on your Chriatmas card is beautiful. I am going t:
5931:! her to a School shim who mm in asking m far picturma- 33f
African animals“, ' A - -

23335:; wishes to yen in] all may mm.

Sincerely ‘ 53011333 ,

 




\. to ,‘C‘ ..- mk‘v‘f,“ '» ’7’" '5 -
1.300.5OX 184/1, Dar 8:: ‘ a. 3.8.1“, '1“ {Milt/‘8.“ yld;£i’4:‘.rhg

ZEpo January 19599

Dear Ere StevehS, _

' l moot apologise for the ﬁeley'in one w
wering your kind letter,ﬁeted Sctober 16th; Really diﬁgrﬁcgr
full my only excuse ~ overwhelmeé with work,eo uomal, omé
so many worrying problemo in connection with the animals.

I always have the adoitionel anxiety of organising funo reis~
ing,ae with.our ever growing organisetion,fun6e ereibeing
continually depleted - ené without the necessary funds, the
vital activities can be sorely handicapped. This is such a
ghostly poor country at preeent.lobooy can give oonetione for
animals u but yes, for entertainments oo 3 have to keep up e
constant round of functions to bring in the money. Really,
killingﬁ in our awful climate. However,l get around it somehow.

-\ ._ \' \f.‘ .
‘1‘ -\“\‘:“~‘\.‘!\\ ‘

w;

‘. \ _ \ ‘ ‘ t. — -, -\:
‘ ‘ b s . ‘
‘ ~‘t ‘,\‘..\‘. . < -' .;.
- - - .n ,\. ~ ~.‘ .-,
~ »\ < : \ - " ‘ '
\\ {W53 o._ I...“ \‘r *1 . ,-
‘\‘ , , , . ‘
‘ I y‘_' .‘
‘ ‘x

x“

- \
i

\
_‘.~\

You rem moor the Schweitzer film which you so kindly helped to obtain the loan of,for us?
Well, I have been terribly disappointed es regarde the clumoy king of hemoling the transactw
“ion on the port of oomeboéy at Fe Roohmont.*$fter Waiting months for the film to arrive for
o Vﬂry ﬁpﬂeial ShOWinngith the Governor of *eoﬁaoyiko present, the ski? "rriveé without the
film: Even although I had_alreedy weeke ego eent the :rrengeo 300 ooller 3 Fetleo ell over thee
place, but no film, In oesﬂpretion I eent a cable then to De ROChmont,and it turned out that
the film boo never left N.Y,g Our big Show was arranged for the 20th " two ﬂags ago, eno no
film: Then De Rochmont cooled to say that the film was being eirohipped,and would arrive here
on January 19th! Panic here: I spent hours at the airport, but no film arrived, gt the 11th
hour, the Show haﬂ to be cancelled - 3 very dilfioult matter here, We have lost pretty heavily
over booking the big oinema,on& all the res of it. No film yet: After more cables,it seems
thatwthe’film 13 lyihg oomemhere in the Be eion Congo - thouoeﬂfo of miles from Der. It looks
lll‘geal’l E‘ﬂ‘ifUl blunélel‘ Q31 ﬁle FSZIt Of 3a yang ALTllpef} in Few Yorlgiwnho lllllifl' ‘ClV‘ﬁ Completely H113"
quoted the time eohedule for their flights. It just wes'nt poooihle for a connection to be maﬁa
Via the CGng, to r ooh Dar es 3e1eem.in time. There are VQIX,VQ few ﬁgrvices coming this
weﬁlfrom the Congo. what a very unfortunate.mese of thinge. 3‘. M am.praying that the film
will turn Up on the next Sunday flight, ego can then yerhepo manage to arrange another ehow.
I aﬁlbitterly dieaypointeﬁ,aﬂé 39 are maﬂy others ~ and naturally,l am in the”&og box“,eince
it Wéé‘dn my recam“@n§3$i°n that thﬁ film would be shown here. if you.cen,ooulé you.pleao,
inquire from RT Ease, what exactly happened in the first “lace,i.e, why the film was not ship—
peé in the irrican Planet from E.Y. on December 5th? I have never hoe ony'exouaration,nor in ‘
fect,any lattgr at all. It 311 Sﬁﬁmﬁ incredible. 3 ha& workei out the oates so carefully /
o0 that the film ooulﬁ be returned at the earliest possible moment after the ohow; Alas: its ‘
enough to Strain Amoricen/Britigh relations}: Yes \ ww*e reed the”Roote of Heaven”, ané
I‘m.well aoquainted with all the cruel peréecution l J: lephant, 3 am at war continually
as regards the inﬂifference towardo wild life,of : l'il: 1 ﬁg feel that this being a Trued
Territory,UNO ohould do something to shake up the y: -“ eot here. The wild 3
life belongs to thio country one igs people, ohﬁ is a wealthy heritage of the country. One
day soon, l oholl etart obtaining Signatures from tho ﬁfrioeoe thQMSelvesgtO a petition for
th@ protection 0f the Wild lifeo ‘ I see they have meﬁe a film of the Roots of Heaven ~ I'm
euro it will be womérrful. I hOpe thore may be a change of getting it here sometime — but not
via the Echweitzor olennelsl I em.etill woiting‘to see what happens as regeros the monkey
eXport. It 13 still 3USPehﬁeﬂx But I fear foerao news” every day: Sheer cruelty to take
monkeys from here. In any cage,l am firmly ooovinoeo that no cure will aver be obtained from
they would be all
here, onﬁ now some

toe use of monxeye, for anything. Naneyo ere too human, voﬁ ; anUlt lay!
» - w+ aocf
Wk 8 ’

a ‘ .‘ ‘ ‘ r‘q .‘ 1—. 4 r». n ‘y __ V, p '
dementeo before ever reaching a lab. P0110 1+ 0h to? iPCEQﬁSG: v“ '*

C“
)

 




.NQY ViTUS, even worse; “15515 the at all fnr>rlsf

thing 55 50 with.it1 Cru53 act5 can 55555 be
too 5511. €%i.5 latest 5 553a“ -5555rniﬁﬁ ‘55

qh§55rimg @5”ilﬁ

. :-
.r? . '4T . "- . V
V A.) I,’ ,. ‘ 7: -.J \ - ’2 s”- '.r 71.1 4:.
1’ ”.4. .a, '

L8

.,..f.. .. ﬁlm
Y 's'v‘r r13! 33'5“:- -‘:-'-~ r

T

73H

7,.
A.

‘i\’\%
til—L

055 50:;5305,h5

A
H

J. .

1 1555:7158 'j '33 .- -, -« .--.- ﬂy? ”(1-1", .- " *3: ’5“: C-‘P +119

"“31’3‘11 FT” 12f‘rtb'trw km}:-
1371 .-.. J 01 Vﬂﬁ't'lr. “I 3, {ﬁfthm ....
(:9 15.11:,

L'.
. 5.5-2 mg ,....

55535555

.t 55 b55utifmlly

if» 3 if

1:13.375 1152-” 5-213: J.f115

ﬂ‘ﬂn To“ .-, 1...: 5355: 5.51" rJ’Lwr'k

A.

311:0:53 7501135 1, 1.3 . ”31’. ‘ gm";

an.“-

1

mg him to be cru5“ 1 553 m.s~vw nunting
5:5 kmmvn
5r reV5nbe on th.eir £53355 men » fh555 5'0 35 (T555 in

*3 s '\ ‘r- 11"“:
(71.1.... ;.... -, (3731’ ll" «1:. C1 532’? C"t ”07‘5‘, “7:11.53

ﬁillings 1

‘re V11_j g‘s‘have b52ﬁg155n5 er‘raal lianﬁ, 1% {18:3

fan-«:\ -y1
55 «

7515155159“
5 5353!?“
”55954.- ~+ {:4
44 45.4.Ifﬂ {ifa v ’
555535ct55

wmuld

’6.”
AA}

.:5 if the
5555

k .

35195511 V‘Szl’ﬁ? (:5

L1.

5,-5.1?

out 00(a515Lglly,cn5 5. 72;. g5ts Caught 515 Of sour .555t5

”11.5.5 ’r‘wzJﬂ (J.

citing countryéw

I11“ {M 1:: '. ; {3845 (:51er 1 1k€fﬁ 5&5
pari5 on 1m11151; 5,

'rain,with 550105153 far 555 55353 in wrj
5V5 been Qplag-ing at,OV5r +55 ftlm. Tt-s
“153

1701.11“ it“

(—— amq p10} 19nd ——)

‘ 1
RQC!‘ .Cvant 3‘"

.....u.......-.-aa2----ar.....aa4aogooaaoasaoaoooaoo ..... sea
’1

513131195

OZOO¢OIIO
pue ameu

.ere
l SSQJPPB

0 open cut

"I" _~’ r
5 :D

03.

eliC?
L

(— @1311 p10} puoaag ._)

0".IO‘DODOOOQ'IIIIbJIO‘IIIOIICIODiIIIOQI‘OVIOlﬁloi

5..Sm§5mﬁ%§mm
g Rum...”
. -u15Lw 1

’"IIVN AWNIcmb AH mas HO
mmmmmmsm1mm11ga1uar
35103013513 mv NIVLNOZ) .LON (I'IDOHS 331.131 211v NV

@9313“

(:1.

HZ/E66Il 'ON ‘Iwauag .Ialseunsodaqn Aq paAOJddB 111.1051

. 1.... 3
‘ 19:1...gd;..l
8 61'1‘ O 5r O?
(J. .‘

l
I
0.0.0.0...uo.oololo-.OIcoo-a-c-o-ogo-n

T1,.“ .5:

4... 3‘
,_ 1:13 k 35:.

)1

5 ~35.
’uJ >—

5,111 V515 15151+1V5 hereﬁ

tjxqz, 5555
:.33 5,5

{313. C,

- 535%"? S

$1505r53

I'VIIIOI.‘I0&0S%-‘.€{ruol.I

In.

“mm5155553m5415m1553-

A.

l ’OOOO0.00IIIOIIIOI

“331’1

.y1’

I ‘.

‘ut

1

7“”

'9

or,
acuptry,l

‘7
x
I

1» .
5.33%

(1.1.5. if. 5

C715"...

fraw Et510 :5 35.33
15531 3%-
~. ”:0 (up? mgr

thtﬂm 1-55.

:3!“

.1.

I";

.

0 Y .
5 >4 .1
~‘-l v

1" {:1

‘angtqﬁui 3531153 {5511:

"TC" :53

ya .L L.)

~. 5-1:; r:
a

a,

'1

! \J’.

".7

.,
1

“:j‘ ”Its: Of “5”1’

Hen”,

L311}
IA

‘3

555hihi.+
LIC

i:

Y 551175.».

355r CT *Cur
ﬂown,
55”Lion
1:1,»,
. .19117‘5“ t0

05.5555 we
'3’ .4110.

55155,

V535 far

try

r“;

1“ {‘1}
Li

“I
L

n

1], 1-3

a

C an?

fU$A6$3

s r,
:4?

...
but. 1

' I

5+ 50555V‘V‘501r5
15%;? 5105‘m 0" and 5"
a+t55 5g,
2;_ ea;

‘ ﬁ.‘ 5 . :
ﬁauiﬁs

71’)
.4.

acmem~

Limgﬁwgotlyi

r-

“Th—L354

4.4

13,:

.1- {.1

AA)» ﬂ
”i."

5,53

«W 3...! f3

‘ruf

+35 555535 5f

55.7

’3 9 «L.

:3

m3v y}

55
,., . :3.
513.1-

5n51ty,
”CV9

(a
3...:

'1; 35. 15.?
‘ v

41+"

gas-r:

V/J‘, ‘9'! 3r

‘F’ 11.1
5r5555€ ﬁha'
catch 5,555 :53

55551
-' ' 'J.’

r5 ."x

4.1...

Q?” 13.5.51. .
w -..'...-.., “1,;

99

8.13 9X“

(““7“

”*cmmfwr

HWWOXEIV

31311.31 HI

’3

NOIAV HVd

nu»

 

acrylifil




1111:1111: 5111111“ I115M1W1‘11
£2 3333717331333333
333 ggpk'3, 111‘1311

M“ ”1111111 M11 1111

Ming .3 Iwgﬁﬁﬁif. 31333313 31336333”
3111.11113111111 111.121.11.133 16111111111111th 1 35%”
£3,111.11, 11161.11 311112.111 ~

3.311 11111 11113111111111, . 11331111131111: 1 *1

, , _.: 11:13 1311.11311111

‘1‘ 111111 3M1 1133:1131; 11111 371111 31.111111111111311 «:33. 3135111111 11111121,

1'31. ' 112211 113111.111. 11111111133111 111:1 3311 1113.13 1111:: 1111111. :6 1111111 11111

11111 1111111111111. 2111111133 1111 11 1111113132 113 111111 F11rd 33111131111111: 1

.1 111 1111.11 “113111;; 33111 F33113131311 “.3 11111111311331.1111 3 1311111111133

”1111111111131 11211 :1 1111:1111 1111. 11:1 11:11:11 1.6 11011113 111111111 111111111 1111611131111 1.11.11
3?L“113g 3 ~13 3313 33 33 333133133? 13 3 33313 31132113131

1 3333131133 313 3 13 3111 ,3 3113311 33333 3113 133

«‘11, .
...=' t -x

f‘
\a'
11111151. "1:1 1: 1111:1111 “111 311131111

1,;

:11. 111.11 111 111 1.11111 1 1 111 11.11 111211111 ”1111 ~11 111111 1111111111
. 1g .1, ,1. 1'“ {-1.2 1 , ,1
131 31 3 133. W 11‘ ””1133 1 313131- 133 1333 333r3131»

11111111 1111.11.11 11.1 111 111 11111111111 ~ -.: - 1:13 11111131031
111 1156‘ 1111.11 1 11. 1 11111111 11‘ 11.111111111113111 111
"MT:

n‘v

$1. 1.

1‘1 11:13 1115111 11" 111' 3:111 1111.11 11111131. .- 1.121 1.11.13 1111113

11 11111.1 11111.1 1111111171- 1‘ 1111 :51. 111 1:111 11111111111111- 11.112111131131111:
111111111 1‘11 11* “1111111711 1.1.1 111111111? 11111111 11131111113113
.31331 {1333:133 3333 33 3333 331333.33 3333

.11!

31117111, 111 11:1. 1.11 11111111111111.1111 111'11?’ 11:11 1‘ 1:11 113113.151.

...
.1'1'.

1.311111111111111 11 11.111111111111113 1111111 11 11 1111 11111 1111131111 113131111

:)a 1.7,1 ‘ﬁn‘;

622.1111 M :1 113111171? 11111 11111.1 11' “1.1.111 1:13.. 1:1 117112111 113133.351 1111.1 31310111“

33,.
3133*
11‘,

1"
1:11: 1111.11
o; z _ V a! ‘55“. .1“ ..-~ 1
11:52.11 1 1‘1.” 11:1 111111211111 111 113111.11. 11‘1- 1 111111 113111111 11111

(a
11:1 '33ng 1m; 1. a , ,
6:13 {mg ’3’ 42'" aw ‘1»;3 ‘41 '1 X_ ""3 Y
”i

v . . on mg: “:5 1 .31. :13) ’11-"! r“ _ 7 v" ’1- “it“ . . ' I . 1- ' ‘5’?
3333:}"1 111111.11 11 11.611 "at”? 3T? 33 .1 lz'ﬁf‘} 131?.111’31734321" 533333.31 333333.; 3333331? 5572????” , m

erJ- 41.1511 ‘3 1
.1111 1 ,
11131 12131111 1. 1.1131111 11

£311.31} 1333‘31}? 5

 




R.S.P.C.A. Tanganyika Division,
P.O.Box 1844, Dar es Salaam,
Tanganyika,E.A.

13th June 1960.

Dear Mrs stevens,
' I must apologise for not answering your nice letter,dated April 5th,
but,as usual, I have been quite engulfed with.work1 and quite hepeless,trying to cope

single—handed! I have now decided to hand over: he work of this Division, at the end

of the year,when I go on leave. London,naturally, quite shocked at this decision, but
I have come to the stage,that I must work on behalf of the animals in this country, and
incidentally,educating the peeple too, as an"individual" again, and feel free to fight far”
all the causes that require to be battled for - as a part of an organisation,I feel com.-
pletely hampered. 03 course, having founded and built up this organisation, I shall
always feel some responsibility towards to it, and will do my best to ensure that the
work.goes on continuously. unfortunately, there is a bit of difficulty in finding the
right person to take over, but London will have to make some arrangement. Actually, this
organisation is so big now, that it requires a team to work it:

My whole interest is in education in animal welfare, and I want to
devote my time, to teaching the peeple, and that means writing a great deal. For years
past,I have had little time to give to my writing on this subject, and feel now, I must
make amends:

This country is crying out for education, and education in animal
welfare is what millions of the people require - people who could never learn to read
and write, but they do understand about animals, and all this is so necessary to the
rural and undeve10ped type who depend on their few animals,and few craps,for livlihood.

so glad you enjoyed the visit of Chief Fundikira. He is a Splendid
type, and I eXpect he and I,will get down to making new plans for the preservation of
wild life, as well,as care of the domestic stock, just as soon as things settle down a
bit, and the way seems more clear than it is at present. Money is the snag,all round!

It is most kind of you to think of'sending some humane educational
material - it has not arrived yet. I'm sure this would be helpful,although,actually, all
our stuff here is mostly written in.swahili, but pictures always help.

I usually put out upwards of 100,000 printed items annually, and
that is far short of the demand.

I have a plan in mind,to start a small farm for the education of
young lads who are adrift, and nobody seems to care what happens to them. These boys are
all from the land, therefore I feel they are the potential farmers of this country, but
they get no chance to learn either farming or animal care. It is rather a tragedy.

The new Government takes over in September,and naturally, we are
all wondering what will happen?« Many of our civil servants are ready to go: which I
think is a great pity. The Africans will require eXperienced help for a long time to come.

will look forward to receiving the humane literature.

With kind regards. Yours sincerely,

till/LZQ \Bg‘ztﬂf

\, < , ‘adewm‘ :

 




' 1

x1.

3:: . ,. v; . .'\ . ..., ”1-1 ., .v: '1; 5- Q ' ’r.’ ‘5... .2 q ‘ ”7 “I. .|._ ﬁ-r. Y? a a V", .‘t- 9‘
19"" {$191939 1.1: 31": 5323‘: 54119-243133 92:21.9 4:31: 9.3.3. ..... 91.11119 mu ”1". 19393-3939 99.1.1.9. .3 m
. r: 3 a

719999913939991 p999 r19 999991991 99 tural Reﬁerves 9919 for them. i

u . 1.. . .; n 9;. u , 4.,— . t W 1. on... .. 'r . 2- A... ,--.t ~z.-\ W ‘ y . . r a .1 .. » 7. ‘— .- .— ‘: W .. .‘ > "7 'r‘ r 1- ,h t' (1
$112,913 {:11 .- $9..” 2 15?“; ’uv ., {33.51“ 313?. ‘ ( ,..,_ ﬂ 5“ . ‘.- ., . :v .71 a. . . -.; w, "3‘ .’ , .4 . . H; ‘ 5 .. 1 , .5 f. . ‘ ﬂ 1- y. {X a:
i ‘ V 1 l. .. J. '- 75.“. i1. . .1” JV- ". J v " k ’ » . m ‘o-J “-3 Q'- J. ' '3 5} . u ‘» f .. n; m“ .. '- 3 v.‘ .- ' ~._ ,-_ ' '7 -' .‘ L ‘ .5» - 1: 92-}: 1.1. m

1.3;.;:> 1;.“

9.9.9.. 199 909 naval
" .» . $1“ 1....15-1 ,og ‘ u, n. *v'. ., I- ‘1" ‘ W , I. i
{33” V? ”-13 1.'W"€§ ' -‘ s .. .: K {.13. rm ,1 '1; 1A.; :1}; .151 39.1" “. 1.1137 iii“. v3 V3.5) “1.1 {3.1 3

Km); ,

99991999919 ;. y 00 :fvi can T9mbvru'

{:ﬁi 1‘ tie 3:3; Egg.» 1-! 1‘0" '” 5w; *‘ ..“ ..9 "r. u} '“,: . .1 -":: \. L ,. ”A. m ,. I ‘ .. '2 . .u‘ . 1' . 1}"); 1...?» 1:35 jujﬂ. 3‘g‘; {I}; ‘2‘ "c'g‘ { S: ”Hf: 2:17.; v .3": '2‘) .
Wigwﬂrg ,1 2 ,1 1 9-39 5 .5. .1' ~ . , _ . -... . ,1 , .. Him-w» 3 Acggﬁ. “d3“ .7 2;.1‘3 9.1163 311 37?
1.1 gaff}, ...‘ L51 an = 3:} @RJQM a“, 8 1.131-961 ; .1 4 , 4:. ., . 5;. - . _, -4 . ;. -. . , ,3; . . .. 1,,“ .4 _ 1.1....4111 ,L- 1.1. ‘ “3;
reﬁgrt;cﬁ‘ 3.199911951999 9n1 .“j ‘ .- 1---« _ , 99.39 3:99 ..1ﬁn%*9t 90 999'4999 9

‘ 999:2;999 999:99. .93» 1.9 w»“ *%9#~»~ 991 191* 999:1; .w ..”T 91:99»

‘i’ ' it " ’” u ~ ' . ' ' ~. ' A "- a l ‘ ‘7‘“ q" -, ' ’Mr ’ ‘1 ‘ a ‘2
E; .9: 9.1.21 (:1. 1...; “5" .9: , .- .. . ... .~ 1...: .- , '1 919i ’1 W .1 .9 s
. 923 :1»9réw' 99‘39-19 . ' " *:w; .
93.19 9 99*.9u9m-$3 $19. 24 1761*? 'Vﬁ.m7ﬂﬁrewg.; .;. r9199 K:eaLn

5.9 19 9. 1m 09999 99999119 99 «am y ,.j9431~ ‘1 g 9 trunk.

}
, ..,

I199} 99099919 933999f99 199 19999919£"“9;g-;51i 991 09999 999’199
p 99991 099919y 991 9nim919»199 39 g‘«a9 99911; of 999 999“19.

5...-

i1r 1119 99991 999 utmmuu 999999915. :9 59. caun9ry‘a. 9.39999L93.

99999 1F: A9) 199991991 9 999999‘f909999 91999969 019; 93999
99 911* 999 99019 91919939199 699 319999 1? 8999991 9191 9999;

'u

a1v’9999 911 99 92999 9911919 99 fierﬁzn €999 tar9*9im 0.213“

91991 9010919 93999 far 999 £99999 .9 1999999199 and 9 n1. 2191991
6.11999, and 9919315 999 the g 999 9-9199 95 "’" .-nw.L
9 GT 999 9 999* 1999199.99 99 999 9-9999W‘s 99999399.

a}

U

.‘

KIW‘EV 1 ﬁt“

.qut'.

1“

1 “91:19, 9‘: .119 '17:.) “1.9 93; 693198921 90 {.99 9.11.; 9191.1. 19

+9 99599‘9111'1199 sf 99 9 99999 999919 991 99919”? 9909919.

399 :99 91 99 M9 .99} 99999999 191 - a 999 19 9999 999

~.a;99999999999999999999999999991 99 9991 9999119 1919 here,
91’99 99991 £0 9 999 191119 01 1991199 39919 ”

{3T , '
9 {r‘ .v" 1.3”“:
.5. :r. 2.2:? .25;

'- 93.03.1139

9:9
O}.

i .9 A“ ') At ‘~- .‘f .z .. ' . a; «- a .v, k x1 4 " ~V 1. - 1 u h . I
1.11 8'1...1 5.13.5: ‘ g, .: 5‘1 §Egmﬁgﬁgﬂ1111 "'71 ‘ ' * L’ m . 1:33 (3933 .;.£‘L1C°t--a}n

if.
life 19 999’ -1 wa L; §>, -99999199 9913919 0:99r2 u, 911191 white 9999999. 1‘9
9w.a919. 999 “-wgé v.3 9 www 0f 0990989. 1999. r;;- «E 109 9r.9991*9 «wfarl. 111

‘1:

*}992923991 varv 999 .395 91 99 far 99 0999191n9 99999198 ~ 9 concern «ati 09 the 11939 99999

v...

‘1 ..|

9999 99 9r..- ”990. They now 9999 90 get 9 p”1'9 and 1909999. 519
7999 9999 90 minu9es 19199 fram 199399. v“ '- 999 999r1999 991,i9:
1999199 999999." 9999999999999991 :9 hunbing pa My: 198 399911
91109 919 animals 9 999999 99 99111 up 99919..

J.

~mrgently 99 99 990V“d-1 tu p073131lﬂp 991
9009.9909g9 in .anganyika f:r humang and animals 90 live in peaca, in 99919 59911..9
99 9999, but 99 91999 999 9919 for 1.18. ’.99 animaLs can 09 9999991. ; 90999011991, 999:

informatimn 9.999999-9999013 9f crop- 9r 099C
5;n9

11m 9 and of game ma'agementnee1 999999
mt? Lctjan.made availabla to 91]. 11181“

13? (10 have 33011193 4.1.9.3..
13331: 119?: 999mg; 9901.299. £313. .1. 99:199.:57 530 999..., 9111111949919 of 99012331313 01‘ 913198 cc“ 1. 13:5.
F9999 919991. 9999 warrying the animals. Killing in 9999999 oi 19999 p9999c9199” 19 jL5t

99999 9f 99909999199 991'9919V919991 native 99 99 fur999r and 90999. 09995 999 of aaurse

{iv-“‘1...

~9 paramoxntimmortanca in a c gantry 1199 9919,999 their pr99999ion 9 mﬂ be 1099 11.909”
.0 9199 M9 9’9 991 )ﬁ999919 99,9-.y to 999 9931 9919919. 119'.e 39-9 up an 831m: 3.1.
.99999 99199 999 099 93 arm: 999999191911,9ut 9191.=‘aut staff er Huﬁed I 999909 919 9.9 u? ‘
9919999 90 cover it 9111191999 . T918 9011111992 90 be done 9; 999 90999nment,19199
1,99 macassary 3991119199.

1 .

,51

\C'
1 a
g ‘1‘. '.‘

4 Ag 1 3921129 lamﬁttﬁw _. 12193311391193 13911:”: < 911p 0;? 911?}: - N91 .1511} 3.0115? in “1.99 “#:1531551
5199999119 0119.5 9111 12f9 _f3. ri.m_r 1910998 99 *heowo L901 999 91999993891 21
a‘hRSt t90° 199 FXFFX F19111§ V9xvghi,9 9f 1.3..9 1911 95:99'195 $1909 99
9211.6!“ 01‘ .arerl‘i1919991232999. ‘

 




. 333333 ' 255 g ‘ 3.9339

3333.. 333333 31333333, 35.3333".
P9 3» 33.3.. 13.33.23

23333 33 3‘33. 33.3

3333333333

313.33 33333.33.

1'.

313333313 .3. 373... .333

3 33333 33 3 3333 33 333333.33333333 33333333 5323 33. €331
1‘3. 3335.. 3" 3’33 3.33:3 333233, 3333333333 “his. 333333331537 ‘33: 3‘31... "‘5 ‘1‘
33333‘33 33 33333333 33 333. 33 333, 3,3 J33 333, 3333.33 33 33 33
33’ “my 3333333333 3 3‘3 3.3, 3332333333 333333 .3. 33.333 3.. 33;. 33‘1" 33333333. 333333333 3333
3133333333333 33 ‘333 3333 33 3333333333 33 33 3333; 33 33 33 33333
33 3333333 3333313 anywqr 33 33 333333313 3333 33 333333 3333
3.3333333. 3333 33333333333333 333333 33333333 3.333.. I f. 33 3333 33333333 3333
£333 333 E 333331 3.33 3333 33333. .

333...

{1%333P'ﬁ"?

3333333333 33333333 9

3333333 333333
”3333333133 33333333333

 




" sew a
MNGAMIKA DIVISION.
PIGI Essa i344r—«Feiephsse 26554

. . » Divisioﬁal
.Z)"zrec$0r:-~—-Mrs. [302785 Slates“, 3113-53,. ﬂea-assesses 8
IIOZLSQZW~T618phr0728 NYC). 67525”) BAOrAIVICYYT) S’PREY‘Z’I‘,
DAR ES SALAAM. 'IiI‘

21st December 59.

Dear Mrs St evens, .

I am sending you these few samples of the leaﬂet campaign I have
started throxgh this organisation in. an attempt to try and readicate poaching cruelty.
Government will do little or nothing, and even members of my own organisation would rather
sit on the fence) However, I said,we must- take action without more delay, and for a start
I 'm destributing about 30,000 of these leaflets - to be pasted up everywhere throughout

Tanganyika. The appalling position will never inprove unless drastic action is
taken, and daily our wonderful animals are suffering hideous torture and dying by the
thousand. 'Ihese pictures show just a few of the cruel means of capture by wire snares,
and poisoned arrows. You will notice the picture of the zebra - W killed by a
poisoned arrow,just for its tail:

can you help by using these pictures to the best advantage? I do wish
UNO people could see them, and realise that this country's most priceless heritage is being
rapidly plundered. rhese pictures are all taken from the original photographs.

I am so distressed about all this cruelty and murder,and feel that
I must do everything possible to bring public opinion to bear on those with the authority
to stamp out the horrible menace. rEhe poachers have such contempt for law and order, and
those concerned with law and order,take it all complacentlys what is required is a real
blitz in a few areas - police,and the military if necessary - this would soon restore law
and order. Poaching and illegal hunting,of course,are prohibited - on paper: worthless,
when the crimes are still committed. When there is a big robbery - like a Bank: one we had
recently - every force of the law was concentrated on the spot, and many culprits caught -
but as regards the slaughter of the country's wild life - robbery every day - nothing is
done.Always the feeble excuse about the vast size of the country,and how difficult to
locate the poachers. Konenseﬁ say, there are many ways in which this could be done,but
nobody mdertakes the responsibility to take the necessary action.

If you. can help at all, I will be deeply grateful.
Sincerely Yours,

/“

It," ..,.. .
' ML‘: «9‘ < /’:/‘/\’-- g,

I.
L, p—

w‘w J ...
l I .

 




88:81 88888 38881888
228888 1788 888888 "
888 8888’3, 888'8888

8 8888888 18 3.. 195-9

888. 888881 818888, 81888888 '

_ T8888nylk8 88818188.H888888888883 88808
P 8. 188 1888

E88 88 8818883 T88§88J8883 8.8.

8888 888. 51888?)

888888 888 Sﬁmding 88 888 hﬂrfiﬁylng 811881888 888
3888 188888 88888 8888183 88 888 888188 M818.‘ 8 8888 my
8888 88 8888 888881 888888 88 8 888888 88 888 8888 8888888888;
81888 88 8811 8888 888 8888888888 88 88888888888 8 8883888
8818888 88 $8V8hF'Wl8ﬁ.1383 tthWVh‘gamﬁ 8888888888-«8888
38 8118888g 8888 8888818 88 88 888888 f88,f888 88118 88188888888
8 8888 8888188888 8f 8888 888888 ' I 88V885€,h8ard.baﬂk 8888
818} 888 8888 88 b8f888 188“. ‘ ‘ “ ‘

' 5 55 555 558885888 88 8888 88% 888 188888 888 818 ,8888

8888 888 8888 88 8 88888 $88885 8 388 8 8281888 888 8888 88888881:
1 518388883 .8338: 335.555“, *f'5h 1543 5‘ 5:;v T1“ at. 382i 8813a£5ﬁ8 (far; {51“ ; 7538a” §ﬂ 5581b“; gﬁﬁtﬁ
888458-88. ”8888‘: 8}”; 838888118 11f}: 8 W88 88388113 85 ‘81}, 88. 8833888188; .1888
«558635155? .538 htirfg @Tlﬁilgh 55.1% 453518: “55:; ‘33 arﬂﬂgnfd' €33 {sigma @6334”
88? 8888188 888888 888 £881 888813 88 in, 88 8888888 88*88888

..W€"} ma," E13138? E53558}? WE‘QUE” €038 ta” E; 888818 bl? 68888331 Egg?“ aﬂﬁﬂfﬁﬁﬁ

.555 555 55 55 555”“185”88 58818~888 8888=88 8888,8888 88 88 8888
88888888888- , _ , . ,

P8 888 8881 8888 88y 88118888888888 “f8i888 88888 88818

' 88 8111188 88 8888 8 888878888 8888 :88 8 881888 888188 8ffﬂft_
81’ 8818 kind? It 88818 8.8 38888 8818.:8818 :38” 8888 88818., 888 :88 888
888188 88 8888 88818 88 888? 8818888. 88‘188 888? 888dsﬁg 88
818881888 1888 88888 y88 8888 818888y 8888 8888 8888‘83 888.

811 @008 818888,

888888888,

 




 

 

 

 

T W,

HE LARGEST hunting

party to be handled by

an individual hunter is at

present. camping in the

Mto-wa Mbu area 70 miles
from Arusha. _

The safari is being handled
and organised privately by Mr,
Norman Read and he has ﬁve
Spanish clients with him
comprising of iMr. and Mrs.
Antonio Blasco, Mr. and Mrs.
Flo'rentino Martinez and the
Baron de Gotor, a relativeiof
General Franco by marriage.

Engaged for the trip are two
other white hunters, Mr. John
Sullivan and Mr. Ken Jasper—
son. There is also a European
cateress and a retinue of 24
Africans. Mr. Read and Mr.
Sullivan are the only English-
men in the party.

In spite of the recent em-
bargoes placed on the shooting
of lion and rhino by the
Government. there seems to be

---------- nonun-nuluunuunllll|||||‘

lllllllllllllllllh.

’  a day ‘

little evidence of any slacken-
ing of the hunting trade this
year and parties such as these
continue to visit Tanganyika
and bring a very considerable
amount in revenue.

Such trips are indeed limited
to the very rich and they
cheerfully pay fees from £30
to £45 a day per person, plus
the cost of fares and extras,
for the privilege of taking back
game trophies.

Having paid out what the
average East African considers
to be an enormous amount of
money, the tourist naturally
expects the best‘and there is
no doubt that our white
hunters provide it.

Proud boast

The proud boast of a hunter

f. . 11
i is that he can DI‘OVIC‘E any

cocktail 'in the camp that the
client likes to name, and a
typical cold lunch might consist
of caviar, salmon and aspara-
gus in aspic, boiled ham. pate
de foie gras and assorted fresh
salads. helped down by an un-
limited supply of wine of the
client’s choice.

In a camp of this nature
lasting some 22 days the
hunter will have to tie up
some £3000 in stores and
equipment without the cost of
vehicles. These can cost
between £1,000 and £1,500
each with their modifications
and spares and the treatment
that the vehicles get is not
conducive to long life.

Tents ”cost £100 each and
generally‘ two people share a
tent for sleeping. Dining tents.
store , tents and porters’ tents,

all combine to make a village -

under canvas.

A bath is provided in each
tent and there is an abundance
of other equipment in the way
of tables, chairs, crockery and
cutlery. Three friges are
provided and several radios
and record players help to
entertain the clients when they
are not hunting.

' . ' , 4a .
' (9 Mrsr.;Bl'as’co with a buffalo which she shot.

”cheerfully pay £45

For such a large safari stores
to stock a good sized shop have
to be laid in after a close study
of the likely requirements of the
particular clients on the trip.
In this case gas stoves
provided so that the cateress
can prepare the more compli-.
cated delicacies.

The reason behind the trip
is. however, the shooting of
specimens of game animals,
and for this the clients must
work. They have to walk
from ﬁve to 15 miles a day in
order to get their trophies.

Guns chained

The hunter supplies a veri-

table armoury to meet any:

contingency, The guns are kept
chained to the hunter’s bed at
night for security.

The hunters of course know
where to look for the game but
they also employ trackers and
scouts for the more rare and
difﬁcult species.

When an animal has been
spotted the hunter always gives
his client the ﬁrst shot, but he
has their safety inlhis hands
and is always ready with a
riﬂe in the event of a miss or
badly placed shot. It is a
trubute to the hunters that
clients, many of whom have
little hunting experience, are
daily shooting Africa’s most
dangerous big game, and acci-
dents are virtually unknown.

Having killed the animalsit
is usually taken back to the
camp, where it is carefully
skinned and the head preservgl
for eventual mounting by the
taxidermist.

On Mr. Read’s safari the
party have been very success—,
ful as far as obtaining trp fries
are concerned. On. t %
three days they man ',~
shont\,.,,,...sn simens off-Tally... «

r'

plains ga aracludmﬁmgswf
a ‘31-.whichig5Wa‘s”

kudu and'a be ‘
shot by Mrs. Blasco.

They now hope to get ele-
pliant 3 "pard_

All this hat-[taken - lace less
than 90 minutes
Arusha, where the
arrived less than 24 hours
after leaving Europe. . ‘

are i

g"? 7 \1

d " e. from
touri'S'ts,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 




 




‘1
-/

AAAA LAz-AFARA AJSTITUTA
22 Eaatwl7th_SArAAA 1
,New YOrk 3, HAA'York

June AMA

As.ASOAA1 SZAAAA, Diredm
WAIAAAAAAA Pivis AA HPAdQﬂAftaru.ﬂuPCA
PO BAX 1813A
Ear-AA SA1AAA, TAAganyAkAgE.Aa§

ADAAR A EAA.AIAAAr'

 ‘Your leAAer of June 1? AAA Arrived AA AAA absence of’MrA.SAAAAAsa
‘ AAA AA in EAerA for A AAA weeks“ I kAAA'AhaA AAA A111 read AiAh
»grAAA AAAAAAAA vour ACAAAAA cf AhAA AAAAAAAAg AiforA AA prAAAAA AAA
le life of Affica, AAA.AAAA She AAIA AAAAA VGA versanalgy AAAA
AfAAr her reAArA AAAAA July 15. AAA may very A311 hAVAA AAAA AAAAA
'AhaA A111 be helpful AAAAAAAAAA th€.D$333blllty cf AAAAAAg A AAAAA
AW? surgAAA AA AAAA to TAAAAAyAAA, shoulﬂ AIAAAA there AAAlA AA
any'AAmbAA o: yeung AAA AAA AAAAA 1ikA AAAA a Aha lAngA, but AAA jab
'13 AA find them. A A ' V

‘with All teed AAAAAA for AQAAAAAAA AAAA A35 in your AAAAAAAA AAAgﬁ'l AA ,

0

’Slncerely yoArs9

AAAAlAA Draper, A
EXAAAAAVA SAArAAarya

 




* Seeiefy -
j ﬂ‘iﬁiﬂm of @mmellﬁyz- ice . .ﬂmdmeie ' ‘
: ‘TANGANY‘INKA DIVISION», . ' e ‘ ' " ‘
$9.6, Box, 1844.Mieﬂephone 20554

i

w
n v .

a, ' - , ' x _ V . Divisibnai. -
‘ .Dneoﬁor;———.-_Mrs. Isobelﬁla’terj, M3, 57. ~ ‘ . . , Headquamtera
_(Ho24.§-e:»—.—Teleplwne No. 67525.} . ' : BAGAMOYO STREET

DKRESSALAMwheﬂ.

f‘% 5 Christine stevene, ed 3 ' ‘ ' ' *'” ' ‘ 1:3rd October 1959-
‘“Andmdlrwelfere Institute, ' "‘ ' "‘ ' “ ””“V‘ '
122 East 17th Street;
New fibrk 3,,“ NY. "
.‘ ' ~j; . .- . .
Deer Mrs stevens,. 5 .. , :4 ‘ﬁ..- . V [we ‘ , M o a
: ,,x‘ ' -~‘ , I am.eo pleesed to hear fxem you, and to know that you eye intexeeted
H inﬂtheiappalling tragedy of:our Wild Life. Yes, I can aesuge you, the position is even worse
' ,than,xbet:Whiehxgete into print. h The picturee y0%,30:kindly enelqsed are only tee true.
1 am ed eiek at ihe thougdt of what these wonderful animals are Suffering, that I cannot
eet theee ”eve, and 11m determined ﬁe carry the battle on,to every corner where I can geﬁ
,e'heering‘m jest’es’l did about the‘wholeeale eXport of monkeys WhiCh was to heve~etarted
“mm year“ a but DIWNTI‘ ‘ ‘ ' * ‘ ‘ " ' "
9 H .‘ 'In~m¥ Opinign,_the wild Li 3 of gfriea, ehoufd take_iﬁs frame as one
3 Of Woﬂ1d_importancg’apart‘frgm‘all Oﬁhﬁr issues. ,This part of Africa,Eaet Afrie849e the
only plaee_1eft where wild life of such great species and variety,qbounds, and thiesurely
,sh“uld be,eomeﬁhing efxinﬁerestatosthe_reet of the werld. we need geteide help here,urgently;
if theeeﬁgoble animalevere ﬁe be eeved. Our Government,meking only abortive efforts to pro..
teet the wild life, ehedld be eheken up 13 no uncertain manner. The-tremble;ie,l imagine,
that meet of ihe Govermment oeeple here, are only ”paesimg through” this eonntry,ehd there-
_ ;fore,have net the interest in ﬁhe eoumtryieone real natural reseprce,and great he:itege.l
:a is druiy shocking. maﬁganyike,in any case, iS &.TrU3t Territory,'end.£het_alone,eh0ulﬁ
ggizﬁdineﬂgmee genome; *0 take. up magnet-i261.“ Ofﬁce Wild Life pmservatian -~ the 24;.-in Life
,pelﬂﬂ88.€b the peopled? the ogﬁniry,end thet.ehould_ee e Trust,toqq It 15.not only the

primitive and berbdxieeily undeveloped gfriean whp.goee,in fer peaehing on this tlemendoue
scale; but peeple of other racee,ﬁoo e anything for easy,money, 3y contention is, ihat
-etbie,,e,new country on the eve e» develogment,can never progreee a;ongthe right liﬂee,when
so little atiempt is made by theeeiin authority, to etamp out the evil of ere; «doing._1t is
eimilar to.gangetere in other Countries ~ but then,im decently deve}0ped and Civilieed’cou—
niﬁiee these wrenendeere eee eeneinually breught t0 book,and e11 effort_ie made to etop ﬁheir
\ "-“bed Wayeofliving. ' ‘ ' ' r ‘ ‘ ‘ " ' ’ ‘ “ ‘ ‘

 

 

; -Thie.ie"e vast country,we_know, and inthoueende of.milee of bush,it
might be difficult in e”feehle”efforﬁ,to oateh,gp with poachers, but then, a plan eheuld
‘*be’medegand vigorously put inte action ~ it could be donea' »There is room enough.in Tenganyeu;
ika for humams and the animals to live at peace,ho*their“ rate allotments, but no plans I
”are made for this n it becomes a queetion of,”<Well, the-hemans require land,etc;, so the
animals are of secondary importanoe":" this was even said by our new Governor-in a public I
speech,reoently. Deploreble,l cell it. The wild lifecof Tanganyika is here by right,
and here,there should be proteotion for this great and wonderful gift from the Creator. $
* “‘ , Tee animals can be humanely controlled, when numbers increaeeg and (
,properly organised Natural Reserves made for them, yes, we have eome Reserves, bot not j
Wnearly enOUgh..* Always the same old cry, "no money". We all know that Tanganylka 1s

very'impoveriehed at the preeeht time; but surely,it would be worthwhile aﬁeany Goggn “

r“ . ,-
.- ., J :
. < 5,; ‘

"I

 

 




60 fin:16He money 60 pI otect so valudule a Heritage, 6666 ameney-Iaver 600, as'the 6116
Life. SoII ething must be done. I

. To b iefly Itate thI pasxtzong, woulé say 6h061the Wkld ife 61166 is not crue1ly 6on9
60 6ea6h.6hrough3 mhing, is hunted tr 666th by‘hnrt 366 163, and 166613,Ix 0I666 avers 396?.
36 what will He left in a few 3edr 61mg? Rething bu6 6 great 6I3611IIIL 666 the fumanu 611
flgntlng.overwthe lskuemof 16nd! It ks‘Hapyphlng HIV, the 1666 Ireslem, buY Iéalﬁ In a
00 ntry so vast, and Hunuredﬁ of 61613666 of Iiles+ If6 6&116 II cultivated, 116H 66 IVIH worm
””th thﬁ an1ma1s, it 136 I1lmc 66'6 I InI CIHHIH be made 66 «06:6 611 6336661 0f LIVVIOE w
Tﬂeht. 6 it? r‘w - .26- 111 ~ 1 "
Crop pIetectiIH HIII,iI I 616661 66* II for QvIIIIHII6 66 613,6161 6H6 36(3 @6666 H111
66 pr96666”66~ir CIHpI. Thi: IbIIH,‘~ I 316116116 T‘w :1 IcaII 1 *Hz “£6116 H~V§r Have HIIH
MIVIH the 6115 HI $.d1t of 11 6666616 1666 Ian-II 6: C103 3166666lcn-w 6H6 ““13 161I 6Hey
SBVEH&3;16 661I_ 11666161,16 6H166§H 6H6 961b"1$ﬁ in 661661 uIIfIIe “Ivtem I‘IIt I3 ,Iné in
.HI 6, T 666 CH PT” 36r+ert In. 666 6166 66” I 636, I1 b 16 6636f,6* .6663,66 +6» I1IH16 1H6
6066613 60 cover 16 I66616166613. ‘Cvrlhunnb H65 611 666 6I61116106 66 IHIulIute 31:3II
c1r6 :.Itmctacn ﬂnI 61606166. {111163 16 the name If fr»611166 (Io; Icicctlwn, l“ 3606 I
HEQMQ of 666 ”165165 (:6 and 16;;Icc Hat1vc, 16 gm fuI6HII, 666 mrucnl 36 all Ade 1H66 6H6
cropI ~Ie of gIrgmoun6 :rpcrbuncc in I CUI6613‘11H6 6HII, In6 II ,06 6 611 661; 66 ”Pt 60
6H6 336660 16 of 6HeIe, but 6HHI 3H6616 H6 6636 Hi 1666 II HILH H606 3 an? 1“111653.11‘11: cruelty
66 6H6 6116 66166169 Hf “16 666116 6113 Hear +1I~e 3011 63366166 are" urea ULIQJTlﬁg in
tHIir Igcny,3ursue6 Hya Hawling mcb If “IvubeI,IIme with VII3 I166 66 311m16169 impleIInt
syears phngds,61mlu,an6 of Cbhrue,161 0ne6 arrows ~ 366 waul6 cry out HIIIIn 16 {6636111 1
have gcne almast ma6 Itetimes,and 66616 6611 Haw uIe6 Iuoh Implements 6n 660"Human murdozexﬁ”
-themmelVeI. ‘ *-' No, 16 IIIIHIIIful 666 no wa3 66366666 deﬁeloglng a new Leuntry. He IIIt g
get eu6si6e HLHp.~ “" ' ' , ,..i,, ,5;,;- ,1 1 .g;1 «‘ .r , ,3 , .

 

3‘3

' 1

~. an,evgmpleﬁ L666 neeH-Vu«-I 66661666 a II3II6 fILm 6H8 “Ireczox.of I 161b6 ”01166 {on
IIIIIH,UIVlhb I36 Informauch tHa1: 611 ,16 If ILL LLHCP I106 III LlIezuﬁly COVBIQn lIn
tHII I (gruel wire 666 area, and 6H6» LII y 611 H66 66 1H066 6616611 quieIIHL III HIrIib16
wounds, 660., 660. .x I sen6 I comy of 3H6 IIIOIt 60 16 C660 3636 .,'I61 the “161660? for that
6636., and IIHed what'was being dame in Ihat 6686 60 6r3 666 ”Iamp 06¢ such begtial CIUﬂi y.
L-The r6613 recv1ved ,Ihocked me, Ind‘ I6 I331061 0f the 666:16666 ~ 6H6 r6113 pr60610611y
laugheﬁ" It the re«or6 and 681196 16 «Ado QIIEIQ IId 666665610 66 Ic., .Hand they wer'nt 3;1re m
pared to 6ake 36 callously: ~ 066 306 beliIve 6HI6? Hhe rcport,un6 the reply,wlll I
3:1Ices‘ before I am flmished wi6h that 166666II
I I , -
_ I attach cuttlng concerning I III e in ”ganda, 6113113 366 6 one of thousancs ha3pI 6163
all over East AfIiCa. Uganda and Kenya, III 66 course suffering from the Iamg 6336111Ig"616«
ease", but Kenya 16 6911n16elj taking mere IIr161m 66636 60 Iwmbat the cruelty,.n&n eitsIs
uganda or Tang yika; 'manganylka,1“ 6H or 6 If 6H6 606,661ng 6H6 6m 66,1IrIer countr3,anc
therefore 303365 sing more Wild animals. -
<5 ~I~Ittach also, I pic6ure Ihowing the "316 IuIeﬂ a mgmva of I Hunting 3666 6, 6610“ in
Hwingxng dawn a lovely animal. II'nt it hIIrible? »» some of 6H€IIIHUH61ngI3 I669»,.O“‘w
less ishcts“ ale doing as much damaae to the wild- 1.1fe,611 6H613OICHIII wi6h 6H61r IIII 366163
H16 6061 staked pits. , , w "'1 , i? " '.6

L3" ~> .. 3 ,:_ . . ‘ 3 j ‘ . _ J . s H .1 , 3 7;
I have 366 forwarﬁ 36539311666 60 FIVIIHtht II 6656163 16 660 91613 066 366LH165,
666 al 0 SUbLE Ie6 6H661II€ Ihoulé HI no IIIIIIL 361 3668 1166“ £06 6 gear, 60 6166

3‘1?
tnewanlnals a IHIICI to build up IgaHm,‘but, Powoyhmen+ iI “01M16msteul

 

 

 

Pleaoe,1 beg bf 30u, 60 613 611 ”QM.Cuh,tO $66 661666 Hutlonu Ircvwea, an6 E aIH
6His , n01 as the founder 666 directer of a Humane 006163, Hut II I persan 16610660 to 6HI
we1farc and prOtECtlbn of animal Io, theIe are no Itnex animal II~+L661VI ”6616116 16
manfaryika, cnly this Ina ,1 have bu116 up, 666 ibcgmoIc Airicuns T g£16 66 £61106 me, 6H6 HI6w¢
tar it wi11 be or the animals. I Have n011666r 35,000 A1ILCIHI in 6H116 3% £63 an& 611033 iﬂ.+’
creasing . every qne is deing his 136616 616 to H61p IIII 6H6 anim61 : Thﬂrn II I 666‘
6.1.6.3. in Le ya,anI also ”Manda, b 16 6663 Have few, if 663 3AfllcaIIInLIIv '16 1: “H3? 16
‘WanganyIHa 6H66.6he Africans HI»? 1061696 666 *IeuI nee fcI 1H6 p306.6666101 cf animals, 666

fut Has been hrcugh1p6656661 6066666 ovex 6663 yeIrI 1 1? ,66 Ht Eiéttg M I LII: I666 I
few mare IOpleI of the 666661 651066 381 III 6611. . love I h'd Vél o6 LlprCLSCH“V”Q 606
I611111*"11“1 366 666 IuTI16 1611606 ” ”hum“ 366‘“ 'I1I 166 6. ' YOMI;1 016(6661y;

3W 32,6621 .

 

 

 




' a SQCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

TANGANYIKA DIVISION HEADQL AR'I ERS
P. 0. hex 1844.-—Telephone am 20534

A a, BAGAMOYO STREEL
All communications should be DAR ES SALAAM. T.T.

addressed to the @oangA/X DireCtoraArs IRObe-l Slaterﬁd .B.E.)
- .lYth JUne 1959.

Mrs Christine Stevens,
Animal welfare Institute,
2.2,East 17th 3t.,

.New York,B,N.Y.

' Dear Mrs stevens, ‘ V . n
How can I thank you,for the really wonderful cheque? I feel deeply grate—
1ful for so kind a-gesture. You have no idea Just how helpful that cheque will be. Thank you

sincerely. I have been feeling really blue this last few weeks as regards finances -

this country is in.such dire economic distress, that to raise funds for voluntary organisat-
ions, and for animals at that! is becoming more and more difficult every day. Everoybody

is feeling the pinch one way or another, and I persOnally have to contribute so much,like
you have to do,and its all very difficult. This Government-has been all along, and still
is, so fantastically shortsighted as regards the animal wealth of the country, that this all
‘adds to the difficulty. I only hope that with the "new"Tanganyika coming into being, that
new blood will be brought into Government and do something to remove all the wicked indif-
ference which at present rules supreme - where animals are concerned.

This is a pastoral country,and animals are the great wealth of the people,
' therefore important to the country's economy 1 both the domestic and wild life,are of the
'utmost importance to the country's prosperity. No wonder'the country is on the rocks, when
so little regard is apparent towards the protection of wild life, and welfare of domestic

_ StOCk' About the monkeys? so far, you will be glad to know, there is no eXportI
4I have not been told officially that the export of vervet monkeys will not take place, but
I think all the pressure which has been brought to bear on Government,mostly through the pro’--

.‘tests made through.the people, is having results. I am on the alert all the time. There

‘ could be nothing more deplorable than to take these little verVets away from their natural
habitat ,know1ng that they will, for the most part, not survive the drastic change. In any case
,surely peOple who know of the highly sensitive and excitable nature of these monkeys, would
not realise that to use them for the production of vaccine, could be highly dangerous in ef-
fect on future generations. Monkeys are too human. scientists are so clever today,that

-it should not be difficult to find cultures without the use of monkeys - the trepical ones
just cannot stand being moved from their natural surroundings.

" As far as I am concerned, I am out to protect the wild life of this
country,and will continue to fight against the eXport of wild life of every species.

No,I have not been in contact with any Research peOple as regards the
monkeys, except.of course, the representations I have very strongly made,to our own Head -
qaurdﬁdbin London. I eXpect them to pursue the whole problem of monkey eXport for research.
I find my hands full fighting the matter here, on the spot. Yes, this Government has made
the lame excuse that the vervets were needed for polio vaccine: a

I understand that the South African Research peeple who were to have
consignments of our monkeys, are not now,going to take them! So far, so good. 2/_

 




 

2. ‘13‘ ‘
The information that other consignments were going to Canada,may be true, but so far as III“
know,this also,has not taken place. Let's hope this Government has seen the red light. Thaw
main airport for Tanganyika is here,in Dar es Salaam,so I have a good chance of knowing if an?
eXport starts. Thank you,I will certainly let you know should I hear of any going to N.Y.

However,I do believe that lots of monkeys are obeing exported from Ethiopia, and all in

very bad shape. I have written.to Hails Selassie,and begged his intervention, but so far,
I have had no reply.

I was most interested in the letter recently received from Miss Draper,telling of the
person,Carl,A.Nadir,in Addie Ababa,who has been exporting animals, and I am so glad you
have written to him so helpfully. Alas, there are so many of that type in Africa,all out
for easy money in the eXport racket of wild life. I wish so much that instead of perpetrating
such unnecessary suffering on animals through export, these people would either leave the
animals alone, or institute natural parks for the safe~keeping of wild life. Wild animals are
one of the few great joys and attractions of Africa, and I feel that there ought to be some
influential‘World organisation to insist on their protection for the benefit of future gen—
erations to come.

I often feel that UNO should really know the tragedy of wild lifeedestruCtion in a
country like this,and do.something to prohibit export and slaughter so ruthless; After all,
Tanganyika is a Trust country,and the wild life belongs here,and not to be so wantonly des~
troyed or given away. To commercialise this country's great heritage,is to my mind,betray—
ling a trust. . ~ -

My recent flying Visit to the Colonial Office in London, with"oceans" of proteSts,is
:-bearing a little fruit. Already new regulations have come out as regards the~protection of
, lions and rhino, also crocodiles! but not nearly,nearly enough yet} Also, for the first time
, ever, new regulations have been made as regards slaughter of liVest ock. This, has been a most
appalling line of cruelty eVerywhere in the country. Mow,stunning is to be done in all places
except unfortunately still, where there are large Moslem pepulations 1 mostly in the coastal
'areas here- Dar es Salaam.being one of them., HoWever, the new regulations will giVe us more
power to see that the law is enforced ~ no cruelty prior to lawghter,and the ritual to be
carried out under proper supervision. Until now, it has been a mas sacral

/ I wonder whether you could help in a very important way? Just this. Would it be pos~
sible to get a veterinary surgeon to come here from the states ~ firstly to do the work for
the Society here, and all the private practice in Dar es Salaam. Believe it or not, there is
not one private veterinary surgeon in tl2 e wliole of Tanganyika, and the oovernment service in

.\.this respect is deplorable. Animals can die all over the place, and hardly any help to be he
.7 so bad is the rosition, that recently VVhen I had reason to protest bitterl3 to the Govt.,
‘ Vet., department_ on the lack of Ve+or1narv sciVices,,i we a told that ,one, there was no money
Veto enlarge the department staff,and two, they could not get vets to come out from U .K. (like
' not surprised at'this, the department is not attractivez) But I was told that if this Soc—
iety could get a Vet to some here,GoVernment would help to subsidise. Now, I wondered if
some Veterinary surgeon,pcrhaps one just finished training in the states, would be attracted
for experience in this country,e ome thing could be arranged. There is a Very fine practice
Vto be feund here for a Veterinarian, and it would be an interesting life. Phis Seciety
j would do everything to get a Vet established here, and it would be a god-Send to everybody.
Do you think such a proposition feasible? It is so hard to see so many si ck and sufferm
ing animals, and no veterinary help available. Dar es Salaam alOne, hm some 3000 owned
dogs and cats, always requireng veterinary treatment, also,all the dairymen need a vet so
badly, and I am continually being asked to try and get.this muchnneeded help. Do please
»1§?1nk over this, I would be so grateful. "_
, / Again,with all my sincerest thanks for your Very helpful cheque. "
Yours sincerely,

 

 




SOCI ETY

For The Preventmn 0f CrueItV I o Aﬂlth'ﬂ
TAI‘IGANYIKE DIVISION HERBQIIARTERS

I
:77 ['0

EIRzmhm fram
l L%ﬂ Jam {3/ J

www.mo I\

P 0 BOX 18447
’I‘aIe‘

$3312” 13¢, / flail}; . [’6

L ,,,,, "L

\MCDQRJ

 

 




311113111. 1311;113:111 111811231131:-
22 East 17th‘5treet
N 913 York 3, New York

October 26, 1959

Mrs. Isabel Slater

33.53.333.13. *5 Tanganyika Division
P.O.TB&X 1833

Bar 115 Salaam, Tanganyika

Dear 33m. Slater,

T313131. 113311 3131:1113“: 3‘13 31.31958 aﬁmml 3113;133:111; of the Tang ganyika
Branch 11:11 3313:: “33.33331 3: 13...... glad 3.11 3.1333 the camera exprasss Wear
cruelﬁy 1:11 13:33.33 3.3.3.1... 3‘ 1311113391: if 331.111 33113 the enclosed article frm
the 331311 33313 3‘33” .13 3193113.: 11 very glmmy picture 01‘ the possibility
111'? 3111113111313. :13: 33311333133 1111511111113. 330 33:11.1 313111131: it is 3:01;} 93153113151119?

13, 333111313: 31:1 1113: 3133113; 51:01.11: fine 111133: in organizing so many African
31113111031313: 3131113 3133.31.13” 1.11:1 “111113 31131131131 11311131311‘3 3331111113 3111: 1111153; 31:13.}?qu ‘11.:
11:11:13: 1.3.3313: lufméamfﬁﬁﬁlﬁ 21103331313433 3: 331.311.23.21" 1 1311;311:111 fwuﬂr details .3er
yam {.111 3:31:15. 3.3 313.1331: 3.1 1111:: 11111: 113.13.111.33 11313331131133: 31113133313157: 35313131 31:11 33:13:11:
133" 3.1.1 33:31:13.1... 11.33.: 3131.3 3.1331553 11113313131113: 11.3. 313113113111 111131338313?

I 31131 3:131:1311131 “31.1 1:331:31: 1321 3:19 gr 118113.81: ‘3 113111333313, possibly thrmugn 3113 91333.3
533331101133 3.11 11318311.: 51.310: 33 .1: 1:11. 11 «3.1.3.33 3.3.3.31 31113 133111313 ‘31:: graMful for 33131111
auwgestwm... 333111133 33011 333 313.31:1 33331 311331 "3131111111 31.11333 130313.393 of year 3311111111
rapar‘t 31:: 31.133313: 711.31....” V

.3111 goad 133531313,

 

 




 




111211 11.33 1.151

1 1111111111”, 11;?‘30,
, 13111 11 111

3,3,, 11,133, 111.1111“;

1 hepe yr-e 11:1 111-111 1111 11311111 1111 "1he1 yea 1111 1M1!“

‘2 an 1111111 1111111111111 1111 1111111111 1111 111111131 11111 11111113;
111111. ‘11 fee-11 111 111 11112" 11111 1: 111111 11 1111 1111111117, 11111111
11:11: 111, 11111 111 “.11 13:11:- 111 1111111 11111 11111111111, 11111 1111111111 11
111-: 111 111 111 1111111. 11 11111 1311 1111 111111 11111 11’ the 112111
1111111111 11111111 1171 1111 11111111121 :11 11111111 eenhm 1 111 were
1111. 11111:, 111 21111111, 11: 111,111 111 111, 1111 1111* 11' 111111 1111
1111*. 1111111111111 11; 111.

V "1111 111111 1111 111 11111111 21.11151 the 111.1111" 1111111 11111111
. 11111111111 2-1 the 1111111 11111111111111 11-3111: 1111 1111 111:1 111111
111.. 1111111111111 11" 1111 1111111111,, 111-11 11111111 1 1111113111 11111
11111 1111111111 1111111 1111 11 111 11111 11111111 111111111 1121 1112111 11111
111111.11 3111 1111.111 11 7: if? 11 11111111 he
1111 111111 1111111111

1" 1211 111111111, 1 11111 11111 1111111111 111* 11111:” 1111111 (111111 11
3 111111 be 1111, 1111 '1 1111 1-11 1111111; 1111111111111" 111 11‘ 11111 1111112,;
111 1111, 11111111111 11:1 11' 11111 11111111 11111111 1111111111) ,3 11111 11111
111111111" 111311111111 11171 1111;. .

111111111111

 




r i \ :3
#43123 .- J’éé ALJJ; L’Mufw’ﬁ"

,2 é. y

2?

/
alum/y

i

L3“ r’ff . 7 ' h ”A
%Z4 (37;; %amﬂt/émgiz t3

/
6713112 ﬁﬁiﬁﬂlﬁ.

U ungranryufn antiwa-

E.S.P.O.A, Tanganyika Headquamtews.
P. 0. Box 184.4,
Eaves-Salaam Telephone .213

 




 

A w%O—L§'* eta-«Q?- vi~ ML 69“; MM" (Raﬁ
. 252’ +5 WWW...“ a Sagwﬂmwﬁwa‘; .

    

W 101w
I M ‘W‘VZ ”M c£4¢4§~ i

a" i % Q 9M 39""
I: W W - £3 ”£19; divs out;
WWW—9 wWwwA MAJ: ﬁg”; V

CW MW :2

 

 




P.0. BOX 1844, Dar es Salaam,ngany1ka
, East Africa.

24th March 1959.

' , ~ 2
Bear Mrs Stevens,
, I was very pleased to find your
letter,dated 24th Feb.,auaiting me on my return from
London, a few days ago, and thank you very much for it .
I had to fly off to London urgently,on 19th Feb. last., to do
” battle"1n the interests of our animals, and I fear there will
be a renewed war on,especially as regards the capture and ex --
port of our little vervet monkeys for Research. If only the

' ' _ world could know and realise, the incredible amount of cruelty and
suffering, involved in taking these most highly sensitive and very delicate little monkeys

away from their tropical habitat, into the bitterly cold climates of overseas countries, I *3
sure, all this inhmanity would cease forthwith. It just cannot be done,without suffering,
and many,many deaths, the orportation of such monkeys. The monkeys go crazy with fear, even
through the capture alone,and mi th all the other terrors added of un’htural travel to stran-
ge surrotmdings, the state of these poor little creatures by the time they finally arrive at
some laboratory, cannot he fully imagined by anybody who does 'nt intimately know monkeys. I
feel deeply convinced, (and I am not alone in this) that no blessing can attend such inhm‘an-
ity, and future generations ' will pay a hard price for the actions of this generation.

Ion should have sehn the state of the monkey comimenu
from Uganda and EthiOPia,passing through London airport. Appalling! hmdreds and lnmdreds so
desperately ill, and dying. If this traffic in trepical monkeys persists, the same grin
picture 11111 be faced all the time. It is sheer inhmanity. With all the wonderfully clever
scientists we have tc-day, surely it could not be beyond their powers to produce cultures,etc ,
witheut causing the needless deaths,and suffering to tropical bred small creatures. Monkeys
simply cannot be transplantedmith‘xguffering. In any case, what possible good can be derived
from the use of little. monkeys demented with terror?

I However, the important point as far as our monkeys are con-
earned at present,ia the hard fact, that these monkeys are part of the wild life heritage of
this country,and it is the right of no person to dispose of then. The monkey life of Tangany-

ika provides great fascination for tourists,as well as the people of the country, and to
rob Tanganyika of such an attraction, to benefit commercially outside interests,is something
which will require a lot of explaining away. Year by year, we see our wonderful game des-
troyed by the thousands of head, through one cruel means or another, and it just can 't be

tolerated the thought that the monkey life must also be destroyed. Poor Tanganyika 1351’s
a had way. We are broke: the wild life is about the only natural resource which can a

'\

;\\

 




<—

To open cut here

' x." _ c.

tourists with a little money to spend - so surely it is only commonsense to try and 9.9 all
0- ' 7 "‘~ 1“

possible to oats and protect the wild life remaining. ., . __
1 now very well,that the battle will be a‘ hard one,- but 31 an rallying upwards of

. 30,000 African animal Defenders to the Cause,and I think we shall make some ‘progress,even if

some poor little creatures have to pay the price for men's inhumanity.

Thank you so much for mentioning the young man in Ghana. He sounds a kind type of
person,and might be interested in animal conditions here. Our Africans have quite a lot of
connection with the Ghana people these days. " When I get a spare nonentﬂ '11.. send him some

, of ear literature and see how it compares with his. ~

pension of 0ng services,

, At the nonent,I am searching around for money! we need so much to help animal vel-

fare here, and with things in the country being so bad finmci'al’ly,it'sgoing to very hard

for some tine to cone to be able to maintain all comitnents andneet the ever-increasing ex-

Ies, indeed,the mismanagement of the despatch of the Schweitzer filnmas something '

I have never met up. with before,and I yet, camot mde‘rstand it. To this day, I have never

had one line in orplanation from de Rochsont people; However, I expect they ' have received the
fill zsafely back by this time. me film was a great treat,and ,I was very,:very grateful to

hgve it.

‘ I mfortmatelyl arrived in London very :ill from flying effects, (I just cannot fly!)

and spent rather a miserable tine,crawling in and out of bed to attend meetings, etc. I then
crossed over to Venice and caught an express boat back, but still was 111 all the way! Have los
20 lbs weight in a month: However,back to the comforts of my Own hone,I an beginningto pick up
a bit,and hope-soon to be back to normal.

m

;\

ry much for your kind letter. § 51399 13 mars,

 

 

 

 

awmoouav
Hanan HIV
nomv mm

"'2 SSSJPPE PH? 30188 s'Japqas

 

 

‘3'}.

'4 "haoiwmm’s ae- Tnm H 8306 L1 :11
famsmoNa ANV NIVLNOD lON GmOHs HELLLEH 31v NV

s‘Efmsod sq: “Kq paAOJdde 111105

t‘ﬂ'q‘w‘letmtSISQOSI

. .e.....ve.". IIEIQII>0tIIIQOI.IQbi'i).ll."..ArI.IQII-‘I . .1 o

<— am PM 900393 —>

f (6N “1219an 193

v‘ .‘ ‘D’
‘ h
'57 1n-

.“ -» _
i‘lIVW Ayn/mono A8 was HO ,

J GI,

mmtlmmnanm -
‘W‘mees mast-ma so: ‘

 

 

 

. 3056612

'v'srn ‘3191 nan

‘Y'ﬂ‘uﬁmﬁmg

‘umtvs as no ”we! M'O'J

 




   
    
  
  
     
    

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS

 , m TANGANYIKA DIVISION

 

THE RSEHLA..
AT WORK
IN TANGANYIKA

 

 

ANNUAL REPORT *
1959/1960 1




R.S.P.C.A. TANGANYIKA DIVISION
1959/1960

 

PAT RONS: His Excellency The Governor, Sir Richard Turnbull, K.C.M.G., and
Lady Turnbull. -

VICE-PATRON: Abdulkarim Y. A. Karimjee, Esq., C.B.E. ‘

 

PRESIDENT: Chief A. S. Fundikira

Vice-Presidents: Mrs. J. Fletcher-Cooke, Mrs. S. Keeka, Chief Humbi Ziota, M.B.E.

 

Committee: Lady Davis, Mrs. N. Dastur, Dr. I. Gebauer, Mrs. Grimble, Mrs.
. D. Bryceson, Miss P. Day, Miss A. de Souza, Messrs. P. Everett,
O.B.E., R. J. Chande, M.B.E., P. J. Bharwani, Tahir Ali, A. J. G.

Brown, T. E. Mwangosi, Joseph Saﬁ and M. M. Raha.

Hon. Treasurer: Mrs. A. J. G. Brown.

 

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E.

 

Auditors: Messrs. Gill & Johnson, Chartered Accountants, Dar es Salaam.

 

Divisional Headquarters: Bagamoyo Street, PO. Box 1844, Dar es Salaam.
Telephone: 20534

Kennels, Cattery'and
Shelter for Strays: Msasani, Dar es Salaam.

London Headquarters: 105 Jerlnyn Street, London, S.W.l.

 




Two pictures from the Division’s poster campaign -"‘Save our Wild
Life from cruel destruction”.

 

Peace, and contentment!

and this _ . . . Tragedy! Photos: Harvey

 

 

 

 




FOREWORD

 

Another successful year in the work of the R.S.P.C.A. is recorded in the following pages.
It is encouraging to note the increase of enthusiasm in the activities of the Society by people
of all races. The increase in the number of members and centres in all parts of the territory
has made it possible for the lessons taught by the Society about Animal Welfare to spread
steadily further and further in the country. This augurs well for the future for a country like
Tanganyika which. can count on its animal life both domesticated and wild as one of her

richest resources.

Inasmuch. as the work of the Society is concerned with the prevention of unnecessary
suffering to animals and the protection of animal life, the Society’s endeavours are a positive
contribution to the future economy of this country, albeit a humble contribution. The task
is gigantic for a Society which depends for its funds on contributions made by benevolent

friends of animals.

We are encouraged by the support given by the many friends of the Society who by
personal example and ﬁnancial contributions are furthering the aims of the Society. To these

friends we extend our gratitude as we do to the indefatigable Director of the Division in the

person of Mrs. Isobel Slater.

(Chief) A. S. FUNDIKIRA,
President,

Tanganyika Division, R.S.P.C.A.

 




 

 

 

 

The Society knows no barriers of race or creed—its Policy may be said, to be threefold:
Prevention of cruelty and unnecessary suffering——
Promotion of kindness, consideration and understanding-
Promotion of education in animal welfare.

 

THE R.S.P.C.A. AT WORK IN TANGANYIKA
ANNUAL REPORT
1959/1960

The work of the Division has continued to make tremendous progress throughout the
whole of Tanganyika. The enthusiasm displayed by members of all races in maintaining the
activities of the Society, can be regarded as highly satisfactory from all aspects. Multi-racial
branches and entirely non-racial branches, (branches managed by the indigenous people)
have co-operated whole-heartedly with Divisional Headquarters. A special word of praise,
however, must be accorded the many African members, who, in the most practical sense
have shown exceptional initiative in the prevention of cruelty and spreading education in animal
welfare over very large areas of the country. This encouraging sign may be taken as the best
assurance that the care of animals, and their protection, will be regarded as‘of essential impor- "
tance in the plans and development of the country in the days to come.

It is much regretted that it is not possible to produce at length a report of all the out-
standing work being accomplished by branches and individual members throughout the
Territory—much of this would make absorbing reading—but it would entail the writing up
of a volume of considerable proportions, not to mention printing costs. The activities, in parti-
cular of many African—managed branches are recorded for the information of other Branches,
in the monthly Swahili news-letter, “Kilio”, issued from Divisional Headquarters, copies of
which can always be obtained on request.

MEMBERSHIP. At the end of 1959 well over 40,000 members have been recorded,
and daily new members enrol. Nearly 800 branches and smaller centres have been established
in .all parts of the country, and these too, steadily increase in number. It is an important
pornt to note that schools and educational institutions in most districts, take a very active
interest in the formation of Centres, from which members carry away the lessons learned in
animal welfare, to the many other parts of the country when on vacation, or on leaving those
institutions. In this way the humane instruction dispensed by the Society is rapidly, and
it might be_sa‘id, well and truly disseminated. The indigenous people, not unnaturally,
form the majority of members, and also show keen aptitude as regards opening new branches.
It can be stated With pleasure, and no little amount of satisfaction, that education, in animal
welfare and protection work, has proved to be something which the people have taken to

heart and have found beneﬁcial happiness in furthering the teachings of the Society. Tanga-
nyika has reason to be proud of its “Animal Defenders”.

NEWS. FROM BRANCHES, The multi-racial branches continue to carry on the
humane act1V1t1es 1n the best tradltions of the Society, and in their particular areas have given
much help and encouragement to the Afrlcan-run Centres in these areas. Amongst branches

Flilbh .have reported progressive achievements during the past year, must be mentioned the
o owmg: ,

Moshi Town and District Branch This productive multi r ' '
_ . . - - .ac1al branch has one ahead
under untrring leadership, and from an almost moribund branch a short time ago hags establish-
ed useful fac1lit1es for the care of ammals, and raised funds for the maintenance of the work.

4 .

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The branch has recently been able to employ a full-time Inspector. This Branch has also,
taken a very active part in trying to encourage the use of the Captive Bolt stunner, for humane
slaughter, and with the much appreciated assistance of the resident African Veterinary Ofﬁcer,
staged some highly successful demonstrations. The branch is still carrying on these demon-
strations in the area. Credit must be accorded to Mrs. Vicars-Harris, the Hon. Secretary.
who supervises the work of this very active branch: she is also an elected member of the
Divisional Committee.

Morogoro Branch. Another multi-racial branch has also reported a splendidly success~
ful year. A dog dip was built and is in continuous operation, supervised by an African volun-
tary worker, Mrisho Athumani, who, recently was awarded a medal in recognition of his long
services to the Branch. 493 dogs were dipped during the year. The Branch has plans for
another dip in the African township. A pound too, was erected for the housing of stray
animals, and has been fully occupied. The Branch has co—operated well with Divisional
Headquarters and has given ﬁnancial help on several occasions for the maintenance of the
Territorial work. Mr. L. Holgate continues to be the enthusiastic and progressive Chairman
of the Branch. ‘ -

Dodoma Branch, another of the long established multi-racial branches, continues to
function actively, and here, efforts have been concentrated on animal welfare education in the
schools, and the maintenance of an active Animal Defenders Corps. Mr. Ali Pondo, one of
the oldest members on the local committee, supervises conditions prevailing at cattle markets,
and the loading of livestock. Mrs. Keeka is Chairman of the Branch, as well as being a Vice-
President of the Division. She has always maintained a helpful and co-operative contact

with Divisional Headquarters. . :

Tanga Branch in existence since 1942, the ﬁrst branch in the long build-up of the Division,
is fortunate in having an extremely well organised Animal Defenders Corps. The Corps is
composed of teenage Asian boys and girls, the boys being captained by Mohamed Riaz
Anjua, and the girls, by Farida Bhanji. These young members have taken their duties very
seriously, and have been responsible for raising funds for the branch, and also have made
ﬁnancial contributions to Divisional Headquarters. A new dog dip was erected and put into
operation during the year. Mr. M. A. Ayaz is still Chairman of the branch, having served
the Division continuously since its inception.

Dar es Salaam Branch, the largest of the multi-racial branches, has continued progressive-
ly during the past year, and works in close association with Divisional Headquarters. The
Branch is now served by a sub-committee of the Divisional Committee, the change having
been approved as being more useful, and to avoid duplication of effort due to the branch
having offices in Headquarters building. Towards the end of the year, owing to branch funds
being totally inadequate to maintain efﬁciently its full-time voluntary services as regards
the collection and housing of the countless stray and lost dogs, cats, and other animals, in the
town, it was decided that an approach had to be made to the Municipal Council, requesting
that the Council take over this heavy ﬁnancial responsibility, or alternatively, provide adequate
ﬁnancial assistance for the Branch. As all funds for the maintenance of the Branch facilities
have to be raised, it was found impossible to ﬁnd sufﬁcient funds to cover the ever-increasing
expense attached to this voluntary service—the animal population in the town having shown
an alarming increase, with the usual attendant increase in stray andlost animals. Unfortunately
the position has not yet been resolved satisfactorily, and the Branch has suffered considerable
embarrassment through still being expected to render this public service, and not being in a
ﬁnancial position to do so. During the year 300 stray and lost dogs and cats were taken care
of by the branch, and 77 other animals, ranging from donkeys, goats, bush buck, monkeys,
tortoises, rabbits, to birds of many species. Many of these unfortunate animals were put to
sleep at the Society’s expense, but homes were found for the majority.

A large number of African-managed branches showed remarkable ability in maintaining
the strength of their activities, and sustaining the enthusiasm of their members. Ample
evidence has been provided of the increasing sense of responsibility expressed by members,
in the practical attitude shown towards the care and protection of animals, both domesti-

5

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cated and wild. From reports received at Divisional Headquarters, the pOSition in this direct-
ion is one which has given great satisfaction to all concerned. One African—managed branch
in particular, one which controls many sub-branches, deserves a specral mention in this report,
that of Nyamaguku in the Lake Province. Mr. Gervas Nyarugenda the district Hon. Secretary,
has reason to be proud of the successful achievements of all his members overa wide .area,
he, himself, proving to be a leader of sterling quality. The active and. practical initiative
taken by Mr. Nyarugenda and his members in aiming to improve conditions for livestock,
and with due attention to the protection of Wild Life also, has been nothing shortof remarka-
ble. Veterinary Assistants too, have greatly assisted the efforts of the Branch and its members,
assistance, which has been sincerely appreciated by all concerned.

Rescue of animals. During the year reports were received from African managed Branch-
es relating to the rescue of animals by members. Cows, calves and goats, in particular, were
rescued from rivers, and deep pits, also a bush buck was saved from being sucked under in a
swamp. Certiﬁcates of Merit were awarded to the 15 members who were responsible for the
saving of the animals. A number of unwanted dogs were also rescued from the bush, where
they had been left tied up, to die. These dogs afterwards became the “mascots” of the branches
concerned, and receive every care and attention.

EDUCATION, PROPAGANDA AND PUBLICITY.

Education in animal welfare has taken an almost paramount place in the work of the
Division during the past year, and must continue to do so, for the very good reason that
cruelty cannot be prevented satisfactorily, unless ignorance is ﬁrst removed. Therefore the
Division has carried out a comprehensive programme in animal welfare education, designed
to appeal, and be easily assimilated by the most undeveloped of rural people, who incidentally
are usually the owners of livestock of one kind or another. The personal approach made by
the Society in this respect, has been welcomed far and near, and clearly, education of this
kind has been proved to have tremendous appeal to the people concerned. The Mobile
Unit service, put into operation towards the end of 1958, has during the year, covered well
over 12,000 miles through all provinces in the Territory. The Unit has served its purpose well,
that of bringing education in simple animal welfare to all corners of the country, giving advice
where needed, helping to organise branches, investigating complaints, and distributing educa—
tional and propaganda‘literature. The Unit has proved its value as a practical medium of
contact between Divisional Headquarters and the remoter rural areas, as well as with schools,
all larger provincial Centres, and too, proving invaluable as regards the work of animal
protection. Initially the Unit was staffed by a lady European officer, and an African assistant,
but latterly the African assistants trained at Divisional Headquarters, showed themselves
capable of stafﬁng the Unit, and they now take full responsibility for the work being done
on safari. These young men have proved most capable of undertaking all the duties required
in this direction.

During the past year, some 150,000 items of printed educational and propaganda material
were distributed from Divisional Headquarters, but still the demand for such material was
far in excess of that available. Printing costs being high, it has not been possible to provide
unlimited supplies. In December a propaganda campaign was put into operation with the
purpose of actively trying to help towards the reduction of the hideous atrOcities committed
by poachers in the destruction of Wild Life. Thousands of the Division’s African members
throughout the country took part in distributing leaﬂets and posters designed to appeal to all
people to cojoperate in an effort towards eradicating poaching cruelty. Ofﬁcers of the Admini-
stration, Police, Railways, and other public bodies greatly assisted the Society in the dissemi-
nation of the propaganda material.

On. the propaganda side, African members manned stalls at a number of Agricultural
Shows in various parts.of the country, and in doing so, enrolled many new members, and
interested many others in the humane work of the Society.

Animal and Pet shows were held by a number of the larger Branches, all proving a
popular medium of propaganda as to the care of animals.

6

 




 

 

"' ALL IN THE DAYS WORK

 

Trainee/Inspector, Daniel C/vitanda, feeding a very young R.S.P.C.A. “boarder”,
at Dar es Salaam.

 

The end of a rail transport journey!

7 1

 




 

EDUCAT

Some Animal Defenders Cm

 

Tosamaganga, Iringa, (GirlsSeetion). Temeke, Dar es Salaam. (A lecture in progress).

 

Tal‘ime, [JV/<6) P/‘(N’i/7W- St. Michael’s & SI. Geal'ge‘s Se/zool,
Iringa. (Girls Sec/am).

 

Kalenga, Southern Highlands

, ' M wadui, Lake Province.
Provmce.




 

‘s Corps School Groups. .9

TION %

   

Anima/ Dz<ff't}/.'(I'()rs Car/)3, Tanya Branch. Siffing.‘ Mr. A. Perry, PrincipaL Karim/ee
Sc/mol. Mr. M. A. Ava; Branch Chaim-Ian, Farida Bhahii and Mohamed Ria:
ﬁzz/Lia, (C (1/)f(1fl'?.8‘ of Cir/5’ and Bars" sections) and other leaders.

 

Calf rescued from river by A.D.C. members, Kalenga Branch, receivinfr First Aid.

 




SOCIAL EVENTS

 

Sir Charles Woolley talking to A.D.C. members during his visit to the Division. Also
in the picture, Mrs. Isobel Slater, and Mr. Mohamed Mussa.

 

Pets Show, Dar es Salaam. “Miss R.S.P.C.A.” 1959, Jennifer Hornia’ge, and other
entrants.

10

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

A number of broadcasts were made during the year, all of which were invaluable towards
the furtherance of education in animal welfare. '

Film shows were given on many occasions—~t11e Mobile Unit too, carrying ﬁlms which
were shown wherever a suitable pI'OJeCtOI‘ was available. Press publicity, also, helped the work
of the Division, in considerable amount, during the year.

The annual Essay Competition for the award of the “Berchardas Premji Memorial
Trophy”, for Tanganyika Schools, brought in a large number of entries. Lately, an annual
Painting Competition has been inaugurated, designed to encourage entries suitable for re-
production as posters. The popularity of this competition proved quite remarkable, and some
really excellent pictures were received.

The annual St. Francis Day service was held at St. Alban’s Church in Dar es Salaam,
and was, as usual, well attended by children, parents and pets—~some goats and acouple of
donkeys also attended the service! Special “animal day” services were held at a number of
up-country centres, and special prayers were said at Missions.

Dog Training in obedience, was started in August, and continued until the trainer, Mr.
Gibson, left for Hongkong. This form of “dog education” was greatly appreciated by owners,
and the dogs too! Grateful thanks of all concerned have been accorded to Mr. Gibson, and
all good wishes for his future in Hongkong. .

SAFARIS. Apart from the Mobile Unit, many safaris were undertaken by the Director,
for the purpose of encouraging, and assisting branches to organise their activities on the most
productive lines. Lectures and talks on animal welfare were also a feature of the safaris.
During the year, over 400 talks were given throughout the Territory, both by the Director,
and African trainee assistants.

The writing up, production of instructional literature, photography, and other essentials
for the Division’s comprehensive system of animal welfare education, has entailed a vast
amount of work, and with the: ever—increasing growth in membership and the opening of new
Centres, this aspect of the Society’s work will require special attention in all future planning,
if productive progress is to be fully maintained. In the matter of ﬁnance too, the educational
needs must be remembered. Printing, and production, is costly, but the demand for this very
essential part of the Division’s equipment must be met.

MATTERS 0F CONCERN TO THE DIVISION.

Wild Life protection ﬁgured largelyin the Division’s activities duringthe year. The proposed
plan to export large number of monkeys received a “hostile reception” from thousands of
members, particularly African members who raised a veritable storm of protest. All steps
possible were taken to prevent such export. The destruction of Game animals through cruel
and barbaric methods by poachers and other illegal hunters, caused profound dismay to all
members. The continued use of Hunting Dog packs, brought in many reports, and complaints,
and members appealed to Divisional Headquarters to have steps taken to prohibit the use of
these dogs. The Mutilation and Killing of the smaller species of game animals, in the name of
crop protection, was widely objected to, and African members undertook to instruct shamba
owners in methods of crop protection which did not include ruthless slaughter of animals.
The capture, and subsequent hawking in towns and villages of small wild animals and birds
and imprisoning them in pitifully inadequate containers. Persecution of the Hippos 1n the Creeks
at Dar es Salaam. Transport of Livestock, by rail and, sea, and. the additional concern in
connection with road transport which recently raised. a new problem——Livestock were being
transported in the most inadequate vehicles over long distances. Cows were found to have
been subject to this way of travelling in lorries, for over three days at a stretch, Without even
being milked, and with no space to lie down to rest. Goats, on a number of occasrons were
found packed into the boots of cars—a miserable way of transporting them, even to the
slaughter places. Alleged cruelty in the process of branding—something which African members
vigorously deplored. Large cattle loaded with small. weak animals, for rail transport, bulls
and cows together, brought in many complaints. The slaughter of pregnant animals, the

ll

 




 

slaughter of females with young, the taking away of newly born animals from their mothers,
all these being left to die. Overloading of donkeys, especially those with sores, and lame
legs. Transporting goats bundled up on the carriers and handlebars of bicycles, and fowls,
forever overcrowded in hopelessly inadequate containers, or too, bundled up on bicycles.
Abandoned dogs and cats—this form of “thoughtlessness”has amounted to deliberate cruelty,
particularly when it concerns owners leaving the country. It has been a common sight to
ﬁnd dogs, all alone, on roads far distant from a town, Where they had obviously been dropped
from cars. Many ofthese unfortunate animals, being in fairly good condition, showed that they
had been recently owned. All efforts to trace such owners failed in every instance, but inquiries
proved that the dogs had been owned. Good homes were found for all such animals brought
to the notice of the Society. '

All of the foregoing, and many other instances where animals were known to suffer hard~
ship and distress, received attention from. the Society, and all possible action taken. Acts
of deliberate cruelty by individuals, have become far less frequent than in past years, and for
this improvement in certain areas, the credit might be due, in a large measure to the vigilance
undertaken by so many of the Division’s active members. However, where mass cruelty and
unnecessary suffering to animals is concerned, being somewhat outside the immediate control
of the Society, the position is far from good and a great deal must yet be done to bring under.-
.standing, particularly as regards enforcing the law for the protection of animals; Destruction
of Wild Life, transport of livestock, humane conditions in slaughter places, and keeping in
captivity of small wild creatures, and offering these for sale, abandonment of domestic animals,
all, require protection by law, and a law to be stringently enforced.

Prosecutions: The Society still, is generally of the opinion that in undeve10ped countries.
education can do far more to prevent cruelty by individuals, than prosecutions, particularly
as regards domestic animals. Only when advice is ﬂagrantly ignored, and a state of cruelty
or unnecessary suffering persists, has the Society taken action. In this connection it has been
of interest to note, that members of African-managed branches have shown singular deter-
mination to bring wrong-doers to justice when. all manner of kindness and persuasion has
failed. Some 15 convictions have been reported from these branches during the year, and there
were 1] convictions through Dar es Salaam branch.

In connection with the protection of animals in Tanganyika, a deputation from London
Headquarters of the Society, consisting of Council members, visited the Colonial Ofﬁce
in February, to place before the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, the views of the
Society as regards protection of wild life in Tanganyika and other matters which have caused
much concern to the Division. The Executive Director of the Division accompanied the depu~
tation.

Boarding Kennels and Cattery, Dar es Salaam. These are maintained by the Division
as a separate self—supporting unit, and have continued throughout the year to fulﬁl the need
for “home” care for pets during the absence of owners. The Kennels are not advertised
as a commercial undertaking, and opportunity is taken in this report to mention that the
kennels are maintained on a “donations” bas15 to cover boarding costs—they make no call
atbany time on the general funds of the Society. Any proﬁts accruing are set aside for alter-
ations and improvements to existing buildings, and a fund for future building needs. The
Kennels and Cattery have been fully occupied during the year, and many long-term boarders
were accommodated. 590 dogs were boarded, and 120 cats. Mrs. Fane is still the very able
manageress,

'Shelter for Strays: During the year all stray and lost dogs and cats brought in to the
Somety were housed, fed and cared for, at the Shelter which is adjacent to the Boarding
Kennels, but maintained by the Dar es Salaam Branch. The position as regards stray and lost
animals has been mentioned in this report, under Dar es Salaam Branch.

FINANCE and FUND RAISING. Considerable difﬁculty was experienced during the
year in meeting all commitments, particularly as regards the educational and training work,
due to a drop in revenue. The cutting down by half of the subvention usually given by Govern-
ment for speciﬁcally assisting the Division’s educational and training projects, was a very

12

 

 

 




 

 

 

serious loss, and it meant curtailing an appreciable amount of the scheduled programme.
It was also found impossible to accept any further young Africans for training, and this too,
was very disappointing in view of the many applications received for such training. However,
every effort was made to try and make up the shortfall, by fund-raising, and some degree of
success was obtained in this way. The annual Territorial sweepstake resulted in a proﬁt of
some £700. Proceeds from the showing of the “Albert Schweitzer” ﬁlm brought in £125
for the funds. The ﬁlm was made available from supporters of the Tanganyika work in the
United States, and was tremendously appreciated by all attending the performances. Close
on 2000 students from local schools had the privilege of seeing the ﬁlm before it was returned
to America. These special schools shows were arranged through the generosity of the pro-
prietors of the Empress, Empire and Odeon cinemas. To aid Dar es Salaam Branch funds a
Noah’s Ark Fair was held in the grounds of Divisional Headquarters, and later in the year,
a successful Hallowe’en Ball took place. A very welcome donation of £200 came from an
overseas branch of the Society, the Ashford & District branch in England. This very helpful
donation was a contribution towards the maintenance of the Mobile Unit. A number of other
generous donations were received from friends and sympathisers overseas, as well as donations
from local sources, including those generously made through monthly Bankers’ Orders.
All these helped the Division to maintain as adequately as possible its numerous established
commitments, but unfortunately fell far short of meeting expansion. At the lowest estimate,
the Division requires at least £4,000 annually if all its productive and progressive humane
activities are to be maintained, but this would leave little for emergencies which could arise
through the continued expansion of the work. Some serious thought and planning will have
to be directed towards ensuring full ﬁnancial support for the future. As will be seen from the
Balance Sheet, (separately enclosed with this report), the educational and training work, had,
to a large extent, been maintained on “borrowed” funds.

F und-raising on a large scale has become more and more difficult, due mainly to the many
active helpers of past days having left the country, and there has been a big decline in the amount
of voluntary assistance available for the organisation of large functions. It is perhaps a little
unfortunate that up-country branches have been unable to make regular ﬁnancial contributions
to Divisional Headquargers——the main provincial branches have found it difﬁcult enough
to raise the necessary funds for their local needs, and this means that Headquarters has to ﬁnd
the money for the maintenance of African branches, educational supplies, and essential
equipment for established facilities, and to meet expansion in all directions. However, Head-
quarters is indeed grateful to those few provincial branches who have made a real effort
in raising sufﬁcient funds to enable them to make some ﬁnancial contribution towards the
general funds of the Division.

Divisional Meetings: Meetings of the Divisional Committee were held quarterly, and
also a number of special meetings for speciﬁc purposes, amongst these being‘the drafting
of revised rules for the Division. The revised rules were approved by London Headquarters,
and passed at the Annual General Meeting held on September 29th, 1959. A number of
members were co-opted to the Divisional Committee after the Annual General meeting, and
sub-committees formed; Finance, Education, and Local Affairs.

.It was with great pleasure that members welcomed Sir Charles Woolley, G.B.E., K.C.M.G.,
M.C., a member of the Society’s Council in London, and it was especially gratifying to have his
presence at the Annual General Meeting. A comprehensive safari was arranged for Sir Charles,
to enable him to see something of the work being done by the Division—unfortunately,
due to a sudden and unexpected illness, the full schedule had to be conmderably curta1led.
However, Sir Charles, accompanied by the Executive Director, was able to Vlslt several
Branches, including Moshi where the visitors were most hospitably entertained by the branch
members. Several African Centres were visited in the Northern Province, and a Spe01al safari
was made to the Morogoro Branch where Sir Charles was able to present Mrisho Athumani
with his “good service” medal. Some time later, the Division had the pleasure of a visu
from another Council member, Mrs. Longman, who called in by ship, at Dar es Salaam whilst
on a tour round Africa.

During the year a large number of up-country members and Branch Ofﬁcials visited
Divisional Headquarters at different times, and these visits helped in no small measure to

13

 




 

stimulate enthusiasm, and give encouragement to those members who live far distant from
Dar es Salaam, as well as to the workers at Headquarters. .

OVERSEAS CONTACTS.

’ The Executive Director continued to keep personal contact with many overseas and
COmmonwealth animal protection organisations, and the exchange of Views and information
proved most helpful to all concerned. Such contacts during the past year included Australia,
New Zealand, United States of America, Phillipines, Ghana, South Africa, Ruanda-Urundi,
India, Mauritius, the RhOdesias, and Canada.

OBITUARY.

Members of the Society throughout the Division were deeply grieved over the untimely
death of Mr. G. H. 'Swynnerton, Game Warden, whilst on safari. Mr. SwynnertOn had
proved a good and helpful friend to the Division for many years, and much useful co- -operation
resulted. The staﬁ” from Divisional Headquarters, and other members, paid a last tribute
by attending the Memorial service held 1n Dar es Salaam.

THANKS. .

The Division has been most fortunate in having had continuous support from numerous
good, and generous friends—many of these having supported the activities of the Division
both ﬁnancially and practically, for long years past, in fact, in a number of instances, dating
to the early days of the struggle to establish the humane work amongst the people of all races.
To all these devoted friends of the Society, sincere and grateful thanks are accorded. To
Ofﬁcers of the Administration, Native and Local Authorities, in many parts of the country
a special word of thanks is due for all the encouragement and practical assistance given whenever
required; without such help the up—country work might have proved much more complicated.
Provincial Veterinary ofﬁcers too, deserve the thanks of the Society, particularly where African
branches have been concerned, for all the invaluable assistance and advice rendered. To all
individuals, commercial ﬁrms, estates, and organisations throughout the Territory, who have
helped on the work of the Division, either through affording facilities for establishing
Centres, giving hospitality to members of the Headquarters personnel on safari, or by
ﬁnancial, or contributions in kind—to all, sincere and grateful thanks are extended. Branch
ofﬁcials and committee members, in many areas, deserve the appreciation of Headquarters
for all the splendid efforts made, especially in being able to overcome many of the difﬁculties
confronting them, and maintaining the continuity of the Society’s humane work. Through
the stimulating, and encouraging assistance given by all these loyal workers, the Division as a
whole, has gone from strength to strength. Lastly, our Chief Secretary in London deserves our
thanks, both for his ready help at all times when problems have arisen and for his personal
interest in the well—being of the Division.

In these changing times in Africa, it might well be considered something of which to be
very proud, being able to feel, and to know, that here, in Tanganyika, the Society and its
humane principles have become ﬁrmly established in the hearts and minds of a great following
of people—many of whom as yet, have not had the advantage of circumstances, nor the
opportunity of amassing an amount of academic learning, nor yet, any chance to indulge in
cultural pursuits—but people, innately kind and compassionate where the interests of defence—
less creatures are concerned—~—what better heritage could there be? It is to such people in
considerable measure, that the future humane activities of this Division will continue to make
its appeal. And given the beneﬁt of sympathetic and practical encouragement from others,
perhaps through opportunity, better endowed with the richness of experience gained from the
developed sense of understanding, there should be no limit to what can be accomplishedinthe
‘mission ﬁeld’ of animal welfare. The undeniable spirit of unity and comradeship is already
there, clearly visible throughout the whole organisation by the ever— —ready co- -operation between
branches and members, and Divisional Headquarters. With the conﬁdence and support
of so many devoted workers, the burden of the Society’s humane responsibility towards the
protection and welfare of the countless inhabitants of the ‘animal world’ in Tangantika, can
become considerably lightened—plans for future development and progress be assured, and
the ultimate aim of securing the RIGHTS of Animals, to live Free from FEAR, WANT

and SUFFERING, be effectively attained.

ISOBEL SLATER,
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.

14

 

 




 

 

 

 

The Lighter Side! ,

1959 started well—New Year’s Day! and a call from Government House—a Peacock
was missing! R.S.P.C.A. staff was hurriedly assembled, and off to search for the truant!
Search went on all day, with many false alarms, but not until evening was the peacock located——
and where ? Happily “surveying the world” from a tree-top in the garden of Dr. J. PEACOCK
in Garden Avenue! That bird knew his way around all right! ‘

 

A “Sermon” to be remembered! ‘

Sunday morning in the Lake Province—~R.S.P.C.A. members going to church, when one
of them spied, (hawk’s eyes our members seem to acquire!) a ragged-looking bundle lying.
on a grave. On closer investigation this turned out to be a bundle of miserable fowls all tied
tightly together. The bundle was quickly untied and the half-dead birds were moved to a shady
corner whilst one member fetched a tin of water for revival purposes. A member decided to
forego the beneﬁt derived from his Sunday church-going, and stay with the fowls. Later,
church over, an old woman appeared and started towards the place where the fowls had been
lying—~but she hadn’t "bargained for a second Sunday sermon! In a moment she was surrounded
by R.S.P.C.A. members, and most of the congregation too! oh, no, not at all in hostile
mood, but determined! Bewildered, the old woman sank down on the gravewthen, she got
another sermon all right! on how NOT to cause fowlsunneccesary suffering—a sermon hugely

‘ enjoyed, but slightly tinged with awe, bythe whole gathering, including the good Pastor-

himself.

It was later reported to Divisional Headquarters that, following the incident, fowls
in the whole of that area, had been elevated to a position of tremendous importance-«housed,
and fed with tender care! and when being moved elsewhere, all travelled in enormous grass-
lined baskets, complete with water and lots of food!

 

Birds again! and another sermon!

This time, in the Handeni district where a true disciple of the Society teaches school!
The teacher made a custom of taking her girls out to sit under a shady tree, to talk about
fauna and ﬂora. One morning, a small bird was found on the ground, fallen from a nest,
it was supposedwthe teacher picked it up and it was tenderly cared for. Along came an old
man, a somewhat bad-tempered old man, and scowled at what the girls were doing. He exclaim-
ed, “how foolish you all are———that bird wouldn’t do anything for you, why waste your time
like this”. The teacher gave him one look—of scorn, and let him have it, fullbroadside,
assisted by her girls! He, poor misguided man, went away, a changed being, or so it was said!
Some days later, he was seen searching around under the trees—when asked if he had lost
something, he looked embarrassed, but admitted he was looking to see if there were any little
birds in need of rescue!

And so, the good moral is spread, and the work goes on.

ISOBEL SLATER.

 

IMPERATIVE NEED OF FUNDS

The Society is dependent on donations received from the public to carry on its humane
work, and only through such generosity is the expansion. of this much-needed work possrble.

Please think of the sad and forsaken look in the eyes of homeless dogwhungry and hope-

less. Your donation will help towards providing a home, or a merciful humane end, for those
poor unwanted ones.

15

 




Fill in a Bankers’ Order today!
or
Remember the needs of the Society when making a Will

Form of Bequest for animal welfare work in Tanganyika

 

 

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors
by Will to this Society the following form is respectfully suggested:—

“I bequeath to the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, Tanganyika Division, for the general purposes of that
Society, the sum of SHILLINGS .............................. free of all duties
payable at my death, and the receipt of the Treasurer. for the time
being of the said Society shall be sufﬁcient discharge for such
legacy”.

(If it should be desired that the legacy should be expended on some parti-
cular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to
the form of bequest).

 

 

 

 

Good Companions.

 

 




 

 

PRINTED BY
TANGANYIKA STANDARD

DAR ES; .‘SALAAM

 

 

 




suIMAls*m1FAR” FsSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3 3 3‘3. Y.

March 13 1.961

Mrs. Isabel Slates

c/o Standard Bank of South sfsica Ltd.
. Suffolk House, Park Lane 1
London 3J. 13 England

Baas 332‘s. Slater,

Thanks far 3012}? semi letter. as; you may have read Governors
ﬂlisms is in Africa, 222162 I took yaur medal and Chief ﬁandikirs's
to his chief assistant 23229222 thsy set off on their trip. I under-
4233;222:263 that ths3 will cammnieste with Chief Bun dikirs thsaugh the
asasulste3 and I heaps that all will go well. I do wish that, you
aaslc‘i as share. '

”is: 1222223223 as has a visit. from a Mr. Charles sesmit who was
is Tsasssyiks abaat a year ass and is aasioas to work for presesVstion
sf 332s wild life through some kind of system of sowcslled “ranching“
shassby seas of the m3zsels ass 12211222: for 2002 22323.13 carefully
pssssrs‘mg 3 as herds frcm general destructien. I have heard this
general idea expresssd quits often bsfore and it appears to 3363
:2: 022222731223 ta the best advice: I can get, the most effective say to
2222232222 sure that the animals are preserved. Ramses, I maid like
32:2 have yams advies on “the mttas. He might passibly be bra‘ugh‘b '
ta tska past- is your p1 opossd United 22222122222 States Humans organisation,
3‘02: his plsas ass not, I think, very Wenghly crystelised as yet. '

' I ﬁassn't heard. .3”st Ch2sf “2222222221222. since I sent the shack 30
3221222333223. I hope it reached his: all right. 33:: have never received the
extra amiss of tbs annual resorts you sent us, and I sass that :mu
asst-22:: seaaivsd 3312:: first batch sf cspiss of mamas educational materials
that as sent you, so liks tasse ether pieces of mail, it might have
gens astray. If that should be the case, I trust you will lat us 12:22:22:
sitar you return "to Africa so that as can $232123 22 secona check. The
chsak has not bass sashes}.

All good wishes andlook forward is hearing from you.

Siacersly

 




ANIMAL WELFARE IhSTITUTE
22- East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

J anuery 27 , 1961

Mrs. Isobel Slater
q/o Hotel Victoria
Chateau d’Oex, Switzerland

Deer Mrs. Slater,

Thank you for your kind letter of January 8th. I hope 'ﬁhet this will
reach you safely in Switzerland and that yen will have haci a pleasant and
reet£111 voyage.

Since I 19 st, Twete you, I had a very brief talk with Gevernor hillieme
and learned that. he plans <10 go to Africa in about 3 11101111113 however, no
' date has yet been set for him to go to Der es Salaam with the medals.

We do plan to g0 ’60 London sometime this Spring, and in caee it should
happen to be: :11: the heme time that you are “there, would you give me an
. address; 51131» :Iheh you could he reads 1:1, er shell .1 just. ask fer 511111 ihreugh
' the offices 0f the “’7‘" . . ‘ . ,

lel“ 3.3131111 fer treming young; hii'ri creme i1“: 8:11.118 1 welfare 11011: sound
most ezvzeellen't, am}: I 11.13113 they: will meet with great success when yea return
to Tanganyika again.

”Ene11.oee<1 ie the check for 4"'2E1"O..{}i’1 which represents yeur half 01’ the

A. 3 Schweitzer 1.11am}. Your medal and Ckﬁei” Punmhlm’v we continue te keep here
until we 1117311!" eefihitely ef Govern 1235.13-1311e3 11111113. ﬁe ‘ﬁll mehe eure that
you <10 receive it whether in ﬁﬂiee, England er the United States. '

Your remer khble Her... Memrves 11141021131» “101,111.11. on.

With all gorse wishes: ,

<2»: «.3 w '
“1.11001 1.11 ,

 




F6 17:”‘1/‘2‘5 1?”? “’7 . ’ - WWW~\7/—~ 2-
‘r-I‘hrkwmwy/ ”2/777! VI" “7‘” 7.~L!V %* ﬁﬂ/GIL’?‘ '47-) 2173'-
69%» ‘7 J] ﬂak/<16!” ”WW-1’27 a? ”*3‘14/22} -
i ”‘7'“ ZZZ/“7L0 3??" ﬁJMé’ “1M0
Z «2222/ ”/1" ZZZ/~9M/Zws/L—‘W‘V #447 [512229
: 2:25 22.22%}, "hwy/2» .2222 2, . , 2 ‘ 1&2222 22‘ [’22
Iii/:5 “*3ng :29 LIIIIW

1..“3’1,
" ZZZ WWW“?

’ 2 ﬂat“ %;K€’uﬁ
22$»; (2;: Z'ZZZZIS

O

I .

J «erZMc/Lj/NI—ij
ﬁxﬂj’t‘af [~22 A (“2.212ch («1% 0M1 [2L

272% (£122 7N ﬁmlkd )1222 227" (22222 [‘7
{72,222.22 79% 511:” ~2/L2222'ég: £22222 ' 2t 22222
"VK-‘Z' 7“ OZ Z4126 «(2.422.424 241:) c /2¢N«N I928
m—d I»; 2 2222:: 222.222.2212 IEZZ/QMA m 222...: I?"

2122' 22.22222 .6222: 922.2 92 22: ,2

/\ M—‘EM ZC'QY-Wb’f {ﬂgz;m M/ .42 Va! V

f I: II» 92 r. .2 I’Z 2—,  ‘ 2222‘ . 2—»
2462161: j 2/ “2?? 2/222} 4:12.227 22222:. Zd22m; [£1.ch @M_____

2 , [/dv%w ) (64% ”‘4ny _;/,u:el

1/ Iﬂuuwea ['24 /22\2 9:22: ,zw‘f E

/_ , //:.22:2 Ié {(22222 Aﬁw—vZ Z J22::__.,g2
[IIIZiH/Z 9( 2/1/2224 2IL«2~227 A»? Z: 7—— ZZZ—“ZZZ ‘Z

/“6 gl/“Ekk :1 99h ,. 12...,” Z’ \2. (”m/(Lu!) ﬂ/‘((d7w

' 2:22.222 [:22 (”f % , 2/ [22:22: Z‘ ;Iw-Ldmﬂ- 6/4: JW’IJZ

. 6:222! £257me /Z:2€2~‘Z" {ZZZ OZﬂZZ/ZZ ZZZ [ZZZ/Z ZZZ
7:2: 1w 222: / ww’ ”WM Z‘Z'
'Zjﬂ/Luga" AZZ/ X (”Z/Z7 N‘Z (03”
p?“ "Z /Lu»«—-[Z SEW/Z /01&" j W 6“: 5‘1 ff QZngzrt’l’VQ

//m——I"” {2:}, 02122-4 .:. :....._...2:.::_.

Wt “W Z Z 2«-
/’2- 2/222 2 229 22/2 I/ 222 2:22.22
(AIM/“71" 4'“ Z Z 222222.212 r (2.22 “3/113 OZI‘ZZ’LZ/h

ﬂ?) :1/ [ZA:Z€/::}:d/ A #J,/«90«2IZZ I» [I’M/Cﬁmw

~11” [WI

 




(eﬁayd epuoaag)
aJaq ploj puoaag

 

 

 

Sade”? oS‘hpSe 319559 9nd eunN)

ua’muue ’a

(ngeungo egAJad exemoug‘ $1431» 3.;

new Meungo Aq» was aq "9M 164119]. "pasopue‘eg BquMue 1|

9

for; acceptance as Aerogramme N}? 9

Approved By Postmaster General

QE
O.
.00
“m
d-Q)
”E
‘56
0'9
{:45
wt:
QC;
on:
‘5
O
i—E

If unclaimed in 7 days return to: .
(Se non richiesra entro 7,:giorni, '

 

First fold here

’ :nma piegal

<3. 4.? i we} ﬁx," // (114/. (“'7‘

' "6’ fed-€11.41? ﬁery!» r”

«44M: 7L 2[
{[vﬂ'b\.£€( V7/\&
*1“ &W
{'41511.

 




E.S.P.C.A. Tanganyika Headquarters,
P.O.Box 1844,Dar es Salaam,
Tanganyika,E.A.

8th January 1961.

Dear Mrs Stevens,

Many thanks for your letter,dated 3rd January. I note
the contents with great interest, and would indeed be sorry to miss the
pleasure of meeting Governor G.Mennen Williams when he comes here.

, I shall be leaving here on January 24th for Switzerland
by sea, and my address there,as from 7th February until March lst., will
be:- c/o Hotel Victoria,Chateau d'Oex,Switzerland. After that,my London
Bank address will find me:- c/o Standard Bank of South Africa,Ltd., Suffol
House,Park Lane,London,W.l.

I had it in mind,if time would be available to make a
quick trip to the U.S.A. and Canada,before leaving Venice on 13th April,to
return to Dar es Salaam. I must try and get back by the end of April. How—
ever,after my Swiss holiday,l have to have a medical check up in London,and
it would largely depend on the result of this,whether I could make the trip
across to the States.

If Governor Williams comes to Tanganyika during the
period of my absence,I m sure that Chief Fundikira would be more than de-
lighted to receive the award for me as well as his own. Still, it would be
something of a disappointment to me,not to be able to accept this splendid
honour,personally. Chief Fundikira is terribly proud of being the first
African to be recognised for his contribution towards improving the lot of
animals in this country. Actually,he is now very much keyed up as regards
measures for wild Life Protection, and as this comes under his Ministry,I
have great hOpes that constructive plans will be fully in Operation within
a short time now. It is wonderful to have African Ministers now, who have
the full interests of the Country at heart, and they are all so co-operativ
I am hoping that this Government will now,give better financial assistance-
that is, when they have the money - to the work of this Society.

When I am in London,I shall be having discussions wit
the HQTS of the Society, and I have a number of plans which I want to see
put into Operation for the expansion of humane education in E.A. - whether
they will agree,I do not know, but in any case,I shall be carrying out a
number of projects on my own when I return. One,I mean to establish a Wild
Life Garden Sanctuary,( for young wild species) just outside Dar es Salaam.
I feel that everything must be done to try and save as many young wild cre—
atures as possible, and if they are taken young enough,and allowed to grow
up in natural surroundings,albeit semi-captivity, it will at least save
them from a probable cruel death in the bush. With the ghastly atrocit~
ies perpetrated by poachers and other illegal hunters, the effect has been
to change some of my views as regards the keeping of wild creatures in semi
captivity — at least these will be saved, and will provide some Joy for \
travellers passing through Dar es Salaam by sea. The usual Game Reserves ar
so far away from Dar,that it is impossible for peOple off ships with only
a few hours ashore,to travel so far afield. Another project I have in
view is to start a small farm school for Africans training in animal wel—
fare work.So many young Africans want to learn this work,and farming goes
along with animal ca r.

 




I find I cannot take all the young Africans for training at these HDQTS.,
so many want to take up this kind of work, all realising that it is so~
portant in a country like this, so a separate institution seems to be the
answer. I shall look forNard to s arting these schemes on my return, and
it will all help to build up the importance of animals, both wild and dom-
esticated in Tanganyika. This R. S. P. C. A. organisation, I think will
go on very well now,with the peeple I have already trained for the work,
and I must have more time to devote to specific needs. I do not think Lon-
don will take very kindly to the changes I propose, but as it will all be
in the best interests of Tanganyika, the animals and the people, it will be
a pity iﬂ opnortunity is not grasped firmly.

I am terribly rushed trying to get all arrangements made before
leaving, but I felt I must just get off this letter to you in time.

If I do not hear from you again, before leaving on the 24th, I
shall look forward to hearing from you,perhaps, in Switzerland. How I long
to get away into the snow,and get Cool' This has been a most exhausting
time, and i really feel in need of a break, otherwise, efficiency will be
affected'

Again, thanking you for your letter, and also ,again, for the
truly Nonderful recognition of the work here.

Yours sincerely,

”

«(—— First foldhere—}

 

T009513 cu: here»
1.5: .I, .L 3'1 8 I V _
NOIAV Wd A .‘-~:. [,1]-

IY/ ..

‘ I
l

":ssszppt: pue omen s‘zopuag

1
tab

 

 

 

U)
W
n
O
:3 V
D",
H:
O
"" ‘2
DJ
{3‘
(D
H
n

 

‘sueneig'Q'SJm

 

 

”va AHVNIGHO 1a mas a0
GHDHVHOHHS as TIIAA 11 $300 11 an faansmona

 

 

ANV NIVLNOC) .LON CFIHOHS HELLLEI’I HIV NV

“131/1111 1883 88

‘1361”lém ‘gfﬁaox mam

 

‘exrﬂueﬁuel 'V°,'&'S'E

 

 




INTME: ”ﬂﬂf“? IESTZ. IE
22 EE EB 32th Street
"I8‘EI YDI'k 3’ AGE York _

December S, 1960

VETS. IEobE1.SlatEr
RSPCA—Tanga ika Divisian
P.O. Box 18

Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika

DEEr.ErE. Slater,

 In rEcEgnition of the nobfi EErk far the protection 9f animals
,Ehich ybu and GhiEf‘FundikirE gave done in Tanganyika, the Animal
EEleEE I3.tituta has chosen yum and him t9 receive the Albert
SEEEEitEEr Award fbr 1960. Ee hope thEt yEu will accept the award
EhiEE EE Ilili EEEEIIEEE at our Enm El mEeting t0 be held this manth
I EEEEiEE that it will not be possible ior you or Chief Fundikira '
'EE‘iE prEEEnt, but WE would he plEEEEd to read to the ESEEEbIEd '
EEEEEEE E few wards frEm,yEu, and IE tell them of thE EEnderful
hEmEnE EErI; you have EEEE doing sdesgribed in the annual reports
EE;EEE WEnEanylka branch of tEE F5 POE. ‘

ThiE 1E the first timE that the EEI :2rd has been made jointky.
This mEEn that tEE iEE tEEd of an “EEEE'MEEElE Eill IE inscribed,
EEEiEEEEEEELI name Enr one with CIEiEi‘ Fundixira'E name, Ema tIEE fiVE
EEE EEE EEI‘m rIEEErE'Eill be ELVIQEC EEE31131EthEL 3am. EE hope
thEL it will Ee”EEEEible-for a dnszluyuiEEEd’EEEriczn visit er to bring
'730E EEE EEE 115 iE E rswu, Ezaa I EL 1 EritE to y'u.I*EEEEr EboEt Ibis
EftEE EEEiing frEm 3'0E EEG ChiEi *unclwlra.,

. "Em EEEI EEstl3 hope that th& ”ﬁzlu, so WEI} deserved b3 Ehe Iirelesa
Efiu ES 3ou EEVE pan iutE the Lavalﬂydc t Ef actiEE EEIIEl protection
13througIIEut IWhE EIEIE 0.? IEEEEEVEEE, will help to further those Efforts .
in the iuuure. EE are EEEEJ3 lMDIﬂaoe” ﬁlth all that IEE bE EEE accomplished
undEr the leader whip EEiCE 3Eu Emu LEIEI $lelflr EEVE IgiVEn and which ‘
shEEld be En inspiration t0 nations throughout the warld to EECEErEge .”
kiEEnEEs and reverence for lizE. In tEE'EEEdE Ef Dr. Schweitzer which
Ere inscribed on t3 IIE menial: Ife EEEE a bounEIEEE EIEEIE EEIEE EIill include
the animals alEo.”

SIECEraly'yours,

 




ANIMAL NELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New Ybrk 3, New York
January 3,’1961

Mrs. Isobel Slater
RSPCA Tangaﬂiika Division Headquarters
Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika, E.A.
Biaar MrSo Slater,

Thank you so mudh fbr ynur gaed lettar of December 12th. ‘We
are'very happy that Governor G. Mennea'Williams whc, as yam know,
hag been apguﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ Assistant Secretary of State far African Affairs,
sayg he will be happy to present tha medal& to yau and Chief
*umdikira in Tanganyika. I‘am net sure exactly w¢en thﬁa will
be, as i% will have to fit in‘witﬁ his Schedule.

Ewar, came when you are away an laave 1W ﬁhim iﬁ tﬁ

,.\, 1,... . * ‘ 47’ .. , .,_ _, ' _- . . .2 1,
lung paylad ainer Januaﬂy Ehth, unleas it miqmﬁ E9

:13: 3m +- r-. r. mum"; 'r.--~. 1w- vx "ﬁfh-ya 3 war a} In ‘vih'iw-yv'. Q Q go AC {393 1m? {3”,} "aw-1+ 7“» a .‘4 ‘
“mud. UL; mu. .3. “A! tar k,}{.’.?..L U... {L .31». L... .930, «max.» W‘ ."Jukr ”zu-Alm M; 1.1....3 : v. ‘ '

”2.. a: ' '» 7 «paw-=3 7 d - . u ~v * a . -..
aguaaLLg ~ . v vx , m1i;1&m3 Ev talK about Zha time: I a ‘

“7.1;. ., a. ‘ . . , -um , 1,.» 'L.
know.r when 3mm a3 ; a moment to WTLUQ me d0 let me ﬂaw”

, a J. '. . . . ’ . w" ,.. ' ,,
ampmsb ;a ~4: - ‘4 h in mauld he

“- ' ‘5 ”g ' " --“:. ‘ 4" 45'.)
,M ,, (may, ,N. M . . a, , 12?":1-q“ w, .. _ . ,. .- 1,“ ‘ up MW, “.3 0n
data-‘0! Lamb +1131”; 1:;li «Law'; U .- it .‘ ' .. "a“ 1. a ; ‘ z“ .11. 1.213 ) .

”‘0

4- ~.
$135.7 a-

T3 -~~L ,-~n .mﬂgn’v 1 4m": «7‘ ~., :4; 3"... «"4 * .01 m
5. be 32 Li». u '33. AM (.3111. a} ‘11.}. A. i‘},

‘or a happy Haw yam

% o -.

ﬁlncarely yours,

 




‘R.S.P.C.A. Tanganyika Division Headquarters,
P.O.Box'1844, Dar es Salaam,
‘ Tanganyika,E.n. ‘

>Mrs C.Stevens,v 12th December 1960.

Animal Welfare Institute,
22 East 17th St.,

New York,§i New York.

M_w_o.»~ I‘m thrilled to receive such wonderful recognition

rxfar the work here,on behalf of animals.wl reallydo not know what to

g say.aln the first plaggjfwhonbur Dr Albert Schweitzer as one of the

’“greatest humanitarians in the world, if not the greatest, and as part
Of Humane Education in this country,I try to instil into every person
the meaning of,"having a reverenwe for all living thingsﬁ You will be
happy to know that these words have become known and loved by many,many
thousands of our African members. And they, wonderfully compassionate
peOple that they are,take the meaning very seriously,and put the words
into practice all the time.

Dear Mrs Stevens,M,

This award will be a cherished possession, and I'm
sure will go a long way to encouraging all our people to promote the
welfare and protection of animals harder than ever.

There is a tremendous job to be done in Tanganyika
to protect our Wild Life against almost perpetual atrocities, but the ,
animals must be saved, and to that end,every member of this vast organ-
isation is striving. The indigenous people now fully realise the great
natural heritage they possess, and are only too eager to help in every
way they can. On the other side,livestock also,must receive all care
possible, for there too, lies so much wealth that the country so desper.
ately needs at this difficult period of transition. Humane Education
is the answer, and the peeple realise this, with the result that the
demand for literature,talks,and practical demonstrations in animal
care,is proving a big strain on the limited resources of this Society.
However, every effort is being made to cover as much ground as possible
with the resources available, and the Society is assisting in a compli-
mentary capacity,the Government, to institute meansures which it is
hoped when put into Operation,will do much to save the Wild Life,and
sine promote better conditions for livestock also.

Our new Government has started well,and all praise
c is due to its Ministers who are determined to set a progressive and
successful course towards achieving all that the country requires for
its satiSantp y develgpment - and animals are,inclvded in the future
plans,/ ”This is all very heartening to a Society for animal welfare
‘which has had to fight against so much indifference, and frustration
for years past. But i all this, we do need the help from Qgﬁ§$§ﬁw .
friands and SuppqrthSJ£therefore”the”recognitibﬁfbf”humane work in
«wthis country, by such a wonderful award, will help things along,in more

ways than one. LI thank you,so very much. i
I shall be gOing away on leave on 24th January -

 




To open out here —>

“22.54. .L

first, to Switzerland for a few weeks for health reasons, then on to Lon-‘
don. I ha.d been toying with the idea of taking a trip across to the
States - a short visit only — but as I am so allergic to flying,I'm qnot
sure whether the visit will come off. I mention this, in case the ’
distinguished visitor of your letter,might come here in my absence. I
should indeed be most unhappy should that be the case.

I expect Chief Fundikita will be writing to you. He is also, terr—
ibly thrilled at receiving so splendid an honour. I have great faith in
him as a ‘*inister, and as Game comes under his Ministry now, I‘ m sure we
shall make definite strides towards Wild Life protection.

w”. regaias’w1th all my most profound thanks for the honour you have
bestowed upon me, :ﬁaﬁ I accept the award with the greatest pleasure.

'Yours si cerely
x gqg

CLPLEL

(Director & FOunder,
R. S. P. C. A. Tanganyika.)

(—— First fold here —-—-)

':ssa1ppc pus omen S‘IQPUQS

 

 

 

 

"va .AHVNIGHO A8 mas HO
oaouVHo-ans E18 TIIAA .11 $300 11 :11 faansmoNa
(—— mq 9103 Dumas ———->
‘Suaneqs‘o 81W

mi;aeiqgmuaglwlﬁﬁﬁmzzmwmmwmwmmmwm
‘ aiMMSUIWBHGNTWWV

 

ANV vamoo LON GanHS 2131.131 81V NV
3mBETBS 89 19G

 

 

 

ovsﬁégﬁiéueﬁug g)
"Jr-n an m

£§

 

"a'a‘w‘aeieis IGQOSI SJW'W

 

 




2an l7 3 1960

~,‘__" . :u- A 1‘ a y? > .> S” afﬁx”
1 m’f-ig :2, I? 2 wit ”a (a
1:22:22 222:2. 2522‘2gé2gxma 21.273. V32222r2
{ :3 0 2:; GE» «is: ‘2 $242.2.
, ‘ W2. 5
22,232? 23212 52¢ 2'2 2‘

.2... .22... 3.23 2221, 22.222522212111392

23.
*2
22.

"2.232 22.32 2322.22.23 22922122 2.22 2.722122, which

22 32321 mi 2:212 :22; 22222 23223525222322 by

‘2
.2. 2 222 $3322.23

23223. {.3 o

 




;--~ ...,...m H... ..

_ , '1‘ .
1 ‘ ; .
.;, ‘, ‘ a

‘1 new? ”'3
33:33.2, ”ins.“

r
I

“ a when

N .‘(ﬁ‘x 2““ ”V“ ' W :1 t". I v “7m" ? v.1 ”m, 9%”; urn:
.’ _ .«~ , ‘ ,J‘, _, l '3" ,3
v' “.1ng *" " ' ya»! ﬁﬁﬁw m 1.3.5.

‘ v x; :3;4.""‘ 315,146“ ' a. “ ~ «. ‘7‘ ‘5'? N!" NH". ,’ -, ‘
gwmégg * .‘ - .. . Wig“. {2.53.11 3%

A“ 'l'
$9.-.. an; .31 93,53

‘5", ‘ ,

. ‘ L , : ,
ugh}... hltau,’ . .
$4

(’9, “x [*1 .u‘, m.
f "t ' f '
. . A ..a , , . ..

t

‘ . va
" v" a H. .
L J. 9. ‘1}...93,‘

a"? n? ,« , «
M ' { a" ‘91:
Orv-\LwA-ul r

 




ha a...“

2'3;

5 555555 5:31?»
>1.»W£ i3 .- $.13}

7th $55555
“R55 1555 3, 555 1555

u.

L:

v‘~f
03¢ -',. :

i3 51:55:" 1“5 1, 1960

555.: 5551 5151559 5 555555

”155,5 55,; 3155 1552.51 3:51. 1551-5555;, 3 535
£23.53” 335331: 731333

355 55 5515:53 1555555;55§ E. 5.

12:3 3: a
3 18. L: 73%.?) g.

;555 £55 5555 155155 55 5555555 1255» 1 55 55155*1555 55 5555
5555 $515£ 555515 555, 55% 15 i5 5555 15 5555 55 5 55 15 555155
5555 15 552551 5555555155 5555 15 555551 I 5155 E 55555 5555
55 5:;55555335 55 555 5*“ 555 55 355555555 515 55 55 f5i5nd $5 the
1 3 1,1353}. '

I 5555 555 555 55: 5555'555151:5 555553 55 555 55555555‘5f 555 55555555
55555 I 5555 51155 55 5'W5i 11535 “"3515:55:153 555 15 555515555 5f 555
5555555” 55555511» 5; 5511 55 13 555 1555 5555 1551 gaciaxﬁ, $13553P5
1555.5rm5w4 5555 555131;:5 55>555 55 5 If 5515 :5 555 5515:55555
‘ 5515 55 555515 115:55 git i5 15555‘5355 515, I 555
55 515555 1 5555555 555 515 55f555 55 15ft £5555557515

A,

5555 55 1~5553555555‘355" 5555 55 5115 C555 55? a5 Rflkﬁe

5:2
52"

1235”

:33 {2‘3” {55 {3'3
{3:} Q g ”‘3
53:5 ff:

13

5
3
2) l

.555 555 1? 555555 55 555555 55 555 15*55“5555}5?5 55  ‘55 the 555555551155
5? 555555? 5:54 ‘51515 551 5155, 5 ~555 55555 355 55555:: vgzmv 3555 555
555555 555 5:5 5: :55«555555 5515555155 555 5555:1 1115 “5 155 5 515555 of
55 :355 9555 55 :515 5555 555553 1:5 15 55555'55 55 it 55515 55 5511‘55555
555159155555 :5 w155 555 55 1551 5 :5e 5 55: 51 5151-5 5? 555 5555
55555155 55:5 35:: 315 5555 5555 15 51551155 5155 5 15555 555555 5f 55515555

III

15 551551 555:555155 ”555

555155155 511355 55 555 €551 15 555555 555 55 55555 55 55 533555 55 55I551
5555555155 W«5 5555 51:553 5555555 15 M :55551555 15 15 5555 55 5555 5 5L 5555
535515555 55 °255 £55 15. 55555555, 5315555 55 555 555555 5555 1 555 55155 555
55555555151 5555 35155 5555 ﬁh51 if 1 5555 5555 555 5553“55515 55 5555 W"th
5 5555515 555? 5555:5555555155 51555 55555155 5555:51 1% 3.1 55 555 15 555
5515 1351““ 5555 “3:15.

5555 :

12"? 535' W» ‘ V 3
1,2- 51.: if: 5% 3.333331? 9

 




;
5K' 9, ‘3"
7?
’ ’
. Q

”3:." .- : "
£4.11“. 2" .Y
’\ . .
‘4. :‘&

"Z,

A?

for the. Eremntiem animaiw
'I‘ANGANYIKA DIVISION.
9% Box 1d44.~———Talephone 20554.

wivisianal
" R Director:——Mrs. Isobel Slater, ALBE. Headogmmashams
(Hoe¢3-e:—-—-Tclephone No. 67525.) BAGAMOYO STREET

, , k a P ' ' no. as in; .
min, Mia-enemas. M
- 12th January 60.

2044 ”2/3"”
.5966:- .: )9

Zara

_ 1 I: ‘3‘: .v

Mrs Christine stavens,
President,

Animal welfare Institute,
22 East 17th street,

lieu York.3,Hew York.

MW»
at"

areé'

Dear Mrs Stavens, _
I dank you for your letter,dated 4th January, and for the encouraging
news contained therein. If only somebody like the Ford Foundation would interest itself in
the protection of the Wild Life in this part of the world - but if I might suggest this would
probably be accomplished on a successful basis,if a voluntary organisation such as this, had
a say in things.

we see too much of aid coming to this country, and disappearing through
official channels without any real and concrete result. In my Opinion, it is only through
those" inspired" can results be obtained. As things are today in Tanganyika, the whole out-
look is based on politics: things that should be considered as forming part of the country's
natural wealth, take a back seat,in fact,it is quite incredible that the cruelty and destruct-
ion to wild Life is taken so complacently. This,I think is proved by the slackness in clean-
ing up the poaching business. True, there are prosecutions, but nothing like what there should
be in such a wolesale contempt for law and order by the poaching gangs. It is onlygdrastic mid .
blitz-like Operation which will stamp out poaching.

You mention the Foundation considering a project related to saving the
Hi ld Life through Game management? well , that is just one of the unfortunate snags in the
whole affair. The Game Department is so completely inadequate in dealing with the problem -
the inspiration is missing, and until there is a complete reorganisation of the department,
'with proper plans and determination to see the job through,in my opinion nothing will result
from that quarter. I cannot tell you how many times I have appealed to the same Warden in
recent times,bringing to his notice,flagrant contempt for the law ' as regards capturing,killing V -
and selling,prohibited (supposed to be) animals, and absolutely nothing results! Frustrating,
to say the least of it.

This present campaign undertaken through this organisation, (at least,
by myself!) is to try and give a lead,to all those who admit to the ghastly position, but will
not act themselves. The following is an excerpt from a letter received from one of our Dist-
rict Comissioners who is helping to distribute my postersz~ "I am most grateful for the
leaflets illustrating the barbarity of present day poaching methods. There is great need ~from
one '1' system" (poaching)in the upper simiyu we removed over 340 snares - a ten mile trap, and
I rarely go on safari into the“Controlled" area without bringing back a load of wire!" the let-
ter goes on to mention the story of two elephants who failed to get out of the traps,and suf-
fered hideous torture. The 13.0. enclosed a donation to help towards the cost of the campaign:

in
s
t

n
‘0‘

w

‘.

an

I!“

It» «We: a,

I have put forward many times suggestions on how game could be cont -
rolled as regards the killing for meat, but always, the excuse,"it can 't be done": That is

 




fer the ﬁneweimtien
' TANGANYIKA DIVISION.
PIG: Box @344.~~Fetephcne 20554

I Divisionai

Dzrectorstrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E. Headquarter-tent,

(Hozose:~—~—Telephone No. 67525.) BAGM‘EOYO STRFET
2. DAR ES SALAAM. Til}.

clearly proof of the lack of interest in getting down to plans in this respect. In my opin—
ion, and I've spent many,many years in studying the problem, the unlimited free licence in
killing for food, and the sameiin the name of so—called crop protection, have laid the un -
fortunate foundation for poaching and wanton killing. It is quite impossible to allow
freedom in killing for food or crop protection,in a primitive and undeveloped country, and
expect that the people will recognise where the line must be drawn. How,“ has become a mat-
ter of killing all the time, and not even humane killing, but bestial barbarity. This,morally
is hm for any comtry, and all the education in. the worldnmnt raise the standards of the
people, unless primitive barbarity as regards the slaughter of living creatures,is stamped ,
out good and hard.

It is a frequent occurrence for people to kill each other - with the same implements
they use for killing animals - the lust to kill is there, and any slight provocation means
the use of a knife ,panga,spear,or poisoned an‘ow. This,of course, amongst the masses of the
primitive bush dwellers. How can a country develop on secure lines,if such desires smoulder
within ﬂ lumen beings? Politics are all very well, but I've said it for years, that a

start should be made amongst the millions of primitive rural people,to educate them in the
natural things that they lmow - such as the care of their livestock and shambas( small hold-
ings),and to recognise the value of wild life to the country. Academic education can only '
as yet,affect less than a quarter of the pepulation of Africans:

As regards any self-governing African state being willing to take a prominent
part in a United Nations effort to protect wild life, I can only speak with certainty for
Tanganyika. Yes, I think the @anganyika people ,given the proper guidance,would become respons-
ible. I can say this,with the certainty of knowing that throngh'xmr organisation,the peeple
are becoming enlightened as to the protection of animals,and given more financial assistance
to provide the mobile staff to carry out our work,it would be a simple matter to bring in all
the people to undertake responsibility for the protection of wild life. Even with the very
inadequate means,md facilities,at present, this organisation can be proud of an even-increas:
following of upwards of 40,000 African members.( A mere drOp in the ocean compared with the
population, but it is a vast country,and making contact in every corner,takes a long time -
instead of one Mobile unit, we could do with three,or four, in which case, there could be no
question of the power of this organisation). I am firmly of the belief that it is only
through the labours of a "missionary for animals" organisation like this, that the full real-
isation as to the responsibility of the peeple towards animals,will have real effect. The peo-

ple are always suspicious of Government Orders, and Red Tape: therefore our influence in animal
welfare education is sure of results. I would 'nt say the same about Kenya,or any other
African state. This is the only African country where the people rally to the call of animal
welfare and protection - there is no such thing as an African backed S.P.C.A. in any other E.A.
country. Here, from as far back as 1942,I set out to make personal appeal to the people as re-
gards the care of animals - knowing so well, that the future of the country would be in the ~
hands of the pecple - and today, the results are ,as I had intended. I am training young Afri-
cans to take over the whole work of this organisation for the future. You may perhaps wonder
how this all ties up with"R.s.P.c.A': as it is known? Briefly, after many years building up

this organisation _, 1%fferedg'it to R.s.P.C.A. London, as a Branch, for the simple reason that ’,

 




'1’ 3
’* ’; ‘ 1

TANGANYIKA DIVISION.
Pﬂ. gem 1344r-~7elephone 20554

. , Divisional

D-a7‘ect0r:——Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E. Headquawtev

(Home:rﬂTelephone No. 67525.) 3, BAGAMOYO STREET,
DAR ES SALAAM. M),

1).]: wanted more recognised backing for the organisation, and 2). hoped for financial,and
material help. In some ways,it has wo d quite well, but in other ways,not3 I have

had to make it very clear that my plans in connection with the progress of the work would
have to be accepted, and in all matters relating to such things as carport of animals,etc.,
my advice should be taken. I have very decided views on eXport of animals, and particul”
arly about monkey export. As regards monkey export, you will be glad to know, and also be '
interested, that there is 9.9;- exwpgpt of, monkeys from Tanganyika - through the help of so man}
of our African followers, the ‘whole‘ffp‘roject agreed by Government in 1958, was squashed: One
proof of how our Africans can be guided in the right direction - they have only got to be ’
shown the difference from right and wrong where animals are concerned, and they are all
right to the front with their efforts to help.

If only some influential organisation would finance our Wild Life protection,and
Animal welfare projects, I can assure you,that the results would never be in doubt. With
the country so poor financially as at present, and lack of real interest on the part of the
powers that be,(comp1etely shortsighted in relation beWeen animals and the people) ,it is
almost impossible to raise funds for lemme work at all. Everything goes in the political
direction, and loud cries for education, and more education: Julius Nyerere,the leader of
the political party,is a good fellow, and is genuinely interested in all i have accomplished
in animal welfare - but he, like so many more, cannot see the wood for the trees: in a past-
oral country like this - animals abound, and are the sole livlihood of millions of the poor
peasant type - that is why I maintain that anything that can foster the care of animals, is
of inestimable value to the country. Politics apart - the education of the peeple in the
natural resources of the country,should have high priority.

Now, a bit of news! Chief Fundikira, the minister for Lands 8: surveys .( one of the
first elected African Ministers), and who is now the new President of the Tanganyika RSPCA '-
( this, I engineered recently, always wanting to have an African in this position), is going
to the U.s.A. on Saturday,thh Jan. On some travelling grant,or something?(lts amazing how
so many folk manage these trips!) And if it could be managed I would like so much that you
meet Bindikira and have a talk with him. I must say, that Fundikira,although in Government,
is an African all the time, and he well knows the value of Wild Life protection,and also the
value of animal welfare education as practised by my organisation. He knows, and fully backs
the present campaign to try and stop poaching cruelty and destruction. Mind you, he is still
a bit new to all the problems and intricacies of this organisation, but he has undertaken
to do all he possibly can to further the work, and I believe he will do so. I shall see
him before he leaves, and if I may,I will give your address, and hope that perhaps you cm
meet him. I don't suppose for one moment, he knows all that I know,about the“ animal quest-
ion" , not being a"missionary, inspired", but he will certainly know the horrifying facts
about poaching and the destruction of wild life:

sorry for the lengthy epistle, but I want you to lmow as much about the '

p081t10n 8.8 pOSSZLbleo Yours sincerely,

W

 




AﬁiﬁﬁL WELFARE INSTITﬁTM
22 Eaat 17th atreaﬁ
Haw York 3, Raw York

February 1, 1960

ﬁrs. ﬁgmbal Slater, ﬂirector
ﬁangaﬁyika Bivisien Headquartﬁra, RSPCA
F.0. Bax lghh

Ear 93 Salaam, T$ﬁganyika, E. A.

36331:. HTS. ﬁlaiiﬁl',

Thank yam far your letter of January 12th. I‘am $arry that we havw
mat haard fram Ghigf wunﬁikirag but it is g$ad ta kaaw that he is taking
an activa pari in animal,prmtacﬁive'wﬁrk ix Kemya. 1 wish i might hava
ﬁad an appartuniﬁy ta 5&% him ané to intrcduae bin ta my friand in thﬁ
Fard Fbundatians '

I have not had any very_dwfinite repsrﬁ &n the prﬁgresa cf tha prnpasad
mark thara. I umdavsiand thaﬁ‘Fairfield ﬁﬁbdra, wha is presideﬁt of the
ﬁaﬂsarvatign anﬁdatign 3% well a3 tha ﬁgw‘ﬁark Zealagical Smciatyf‘i3 going
t0 ﬁgané savwral wagka tr&valling in East,£fricag ‘If yer hear of his camiﬁg
$0 Ear-aﬁ-Salaamﬁ 1% would-be warthmﬁila ta ﬁat in twuch with him;' I have
mat him enly ensa gné ma af§0rt E made in 33% him.b3f0re he left (thrﬂugh hi$~
daughiar) ﬁiﬁm't‘wprk amt, as I don't know jusﬁ Wham he will came t0 Eangamyika.

Iﬁre yﬁu in tauck wish aﬁywue at ﬁhe iniérna'7é”“33*" far the Conservatien
af‘ﬁﬁﬁura? @133 Syivia Gallawgy, a vary sweet anﬁ”‘ arming ysung lady who
‘warkad f0? thefﬁnivgrsiﬁiQQ Fadaratian far'animal§ﬁelfar& far a numbar 0f
yaarﬁ, has jusﬁ raaamﬁly game thare, ané it saams t3 ma it wguld b9 well worth
whila for yum ta writm £0 her 50 thai sha has a genmral picture 9f tha Qut~
etamding wark thaﬁ yam have dens in enliﬁting such a large number of Africans
in animal prmﬁaative wgrk.

ﬁem'muah meney'ﬁm yam £661 is naaaasarf ta marry on an effective animal
prwtactivw and.educatimnal pragram in Tanganyika?' It is gaad t0 have a figura
with game backing for it. Hawavar, pleaﬁg £0 mot asaume that 2 can raise any
substantial sum. It 1a juat ﬁhat if I RHOW'What you feel aould be dwne with
“a cert&in sum, thﬁ appmrtuniﬁy might Sameﬁimﬁ preaant itself ta try to get
'help for your wark. '

Beat wiaﬁﬁﬁ,

-Sincarexy,

 




.222:sz EELFERE INETITWE
22 East 17th Street.
Rem York 3 , 13:16:22 301*}:

January 12., 1966

Mrs . Isabel &tmr, Birmctmr -
‘T‘angmnyilm Diviaimm Hmmdqumrhmrm 9 12me
132.0. Ram 1822!;

13mm}! Mrs. Slatmr,

Mmkm fem M2223 int; mm the: hmmmifyimg mlipmingm 22222.“. yaw
1m htmr‘ mbmmh mmxm’iiy ‘32} $22 22:55.12} mummlm 222222 thm 22mm pimmmmm .
I mam my 2:222:23 22.23 3.2mm 22222222223. mammmm “km a frimmd mt. ishm Emmi
quzﬂmt 520,223 mimm hm maid: that «22.1222 memmmmimm 222. mmmmimmm
m pmj 22222 2222122222 2222 ”2222:1233 mild lifm thwagh 23mm mmnmmmmmmm 222-
ti-mt 1m 2211222222222; mmmm mmimmlm 222 2322 2221122222 zi’mm fem-m Whilm Emmi-mi.»
am m 2592222 2222;222122ii 2.222 22:23 mmmh mpmmimm ,. IE hmvmm 2‘22 22222222 hmck
fmm him-2, but hem ism. hmi‘mmm 12mg. ‘ him-2:) i. hmyam 2222 222222222— 2.22.2222
Fairfimlm ﬁmbmmn hmi‘mm him mi’mimm 22222222 m 322me mi“ thm mm immim .

D2) you i’mml him-2:. any mmlfwgmvwmmm 22.2.2 “2.1 S 2.222222% 222.222.23.22. hm
Hillirm; 1:212 2222:2222 m 2332:2222 2125mm: 132.222" 2:. im 2;. 2221232223, miimmm mfi’mm‘h 212:2
2222222222222, £2.22 133222? 322.2 2222.23.22 ”2222 mm mm 322222231222 if ihmy 2222;222:2123 , 22232 2}
ymur 2223221ch mm 22222.22 2222211123, hm v 2222:; mmlmmmmm. ,22lm22mm 22:22 my: 23222232223.ng mm
clippings mu. mimtmmmm lihm 23222.2 mm mm: frmmm m‘mmmmdy 22222222 22112222 22.2mm
2222222222.

All gmmd mimhmmm

Siz‘mmmmly,

 




3.111313 111.1961

Dear Ms. 'Sla‘bar,

Shaikh Abadi was here for has, md ha prasantad the case
for a 130315.111 clinic: and humans aducatianal materials vary
13133336333113.57 and we‘ll. Bill Carr who is a very humans <10th
.1331: 113111 13a. 3701‘1130835 has hare 31:33 says that he will write up
the heads is Tangarwika, and I 33111,. of spurge? sand yau a copy
33111533} hf? {30535. .. .

, I 11331 niuaaarasad about 331:. 33113-03111 (Wha 3311s.? alas 111111331).
1331i‘1-Ia .1. 1313131 him well with. tha aim of preserving wildlife £31 ~
111133.313, it is 3111,1111 that ha is not aui‘bad for the 33:33:33.; .
3311 3.1.3 13113313; 3.13 the In“”3'ar:iatiaml 33335.93: £333: the (31111111111111 af
33311113313 Canfaraaca 133 arusha in Saphaabar. If 1303.3 see him mars,
132331 331331 1013333 your own gudpmmt; 3103313133333, I fhough that “ . -
I put 131333 23.31 much with you, I ought 330 say this. He 11111311 3:: p '
sap-1:3 as a133, 1.31.. 31131111.. Welfare Institute at- the Conference, hat
1133 3111131 33333111313363 his <33fa3'. I fear he; maJ do mora harm than gaps.

I was so happy to have the 3316231133113 of you with tabs pigeons and
aI your husband accepting the 333311351531 for van. The clipping from the
paper 31i‘bh 1131a humane paintings 133133 1131111111 as was delightful «w
11.133163111333133 "the one you have chases for “the. day ta celebrate;
fraaéom. Iaar idea of freedom for 3131131. along aithpaopla is
most 111-1113113311 133333 131.13. surely bring the 3.13.1111 homa. I hope you -

1 will same} as me or two 33f these postars 13311331 thay are dons. The ‘- '
.aasign is 13111113111 as wall as axprasaiva. '

31331833 you 33133313 time, 13031113 yau 3313316 1333 sama cur ant smplas of

~ 3133331333333 aducamonal 11311133311 that. 33933 are <3iatribut1ng and Some notes.

031 331113 matarial you would like to have“ printed and distributed in . «
quantity? I hapa vary much that we can help to Obtain funds far this
purpaaa. . _ .

Having now met two amissa .irias 0f the Tanganyika Branch of the .
». RSPCA I am doubly impressed with your magnificent work. I earnestly
hspa t 11113. prosper and grow. ' ‘

. Iqurs ,

 




Royal, SQQietty
for the Exevenﬁion of Grualﬁy m Animalg
TANGANYIKA DIVISION HEADQUARTERS

Tel. 20534 PO. Box 7844
DAR ES SALAAM

 

E1151 communications to be addressed to

 

the Director and not to induviduals.

 

 




Animnie

TANGANYIKA DIVISION.
P.0. Box 1844.————Teleph‘one 20534

Divisional
. ' n I ' t I y > I 1 ~73 1- . .’ \T ‘ . £3
D'L7eot0r.——M¢s. [babel Slater, MbF. Br 1 V3 t6 BOX It 0 . Headquamten

(HousezmTelephonc No. 67525. 1‘ 2 f] I: . BAGAZ‘SEYO STREET,
”" DAR E ALAAM.

14th July 61.
Deer Mrs Stenens,

I am so pleased to get your letter yesterdey, end make
heete to reply,in ceee,Sheikh Abedi turns up in N.Y. I had been trying to
get a minute to write to you,for some time, but I never seem to get time
for enything,except ell the work in hendi Since my return from oversees,it
hes been something of a nightmare trying to clean up all the"cheos" which
had erisen in my short ebsence, end whet marries me considerebly is jeet
such proof,thet the Afrioen3,however well-intentioned,heve not got the
"know~how” yet to work competently on their own. I'm efreidiz there is a
long road eheed.

About Sheikh Abedi? I thought it was an excellent opportx
unity for e well~known,end influential Africen visiting America, to make
oontect with Er Merowibﬁ,end give him some first hand indicetion of whet
is so much required here. Mr Merowitﬁwes anxious to get something in writ-
ing from intluentiel Africans es to whet the country required in the way
of humene Education end wild life nrotection,etc. To this end,l have been
trying to get hold of some of our feeders for the past few weeks, but,try
es’l can, they ere never eveileblei There is e constent coming end going,
end these I hove perticulerly been efter,heve been in London for the pest
three weeks or more,inoludine Mr Hyerere himself — the others have all been
oversees eleewhere! However, I have left letters in e number of their
offices,end hepe to get some response,sooner or leterl Even Chief Fundi~
kire! I heve'nt seen him for over 5 weeks: I suppose on their travels
they ere getting things done,but they ell do seem to spend an awful lot of
time out of the country. i"*‘ir Nyerere is now in your City ~ if you could
oetch him,1'm sure he would have good to sey about the work done through
this organisation:

To return to Sheikh Amri Abedi? I can't sey thet he is
overwinterested in elimels,(he is e Ruslim of strict religious principles)
but he is e very keen supporter of mine,end willing to help in eiy way he
cen. I put him on.the Divisional Committee lest yeer,h0ping to try and
convince him of the need for e Public Found in Dar es Selenmi He, being
the Meyer. 1 found he wee 8 person reedy to leern about the needs of eni~
mels,end humene educetion for African countries, therefore,l discussed men;
of our needs in this connection when I heerd he was going to N.Y.,end ¢
hoped thet he would be something of en"embessedor"for this work end ell
thot has yet to be accomplished. Nether like,wheni0hief Eundikira went to
N.Y. Shiekh Abedi premised he would contact Mr Merowit, and also hepe

to meet you. He is e very cultured mon,end e religious leeder,es well es
being Meyer of Der es Saleem for the seoond yenr,e member of the Netionel
Assembly,end represents e large eree.in Tengenyike ~ on eree,where,es I
pointed out to him,the people never have eny mkterinery help at ell,end
as I had mentioned to Mr Merowit,e mobile veterinary dispensary would be
e tremendous esset in this country. (excuse ewful typingulfm trying to
work outside on the bereze,but the wind is blowing everything around.)

 




Seeiety

11917 the 39999911199 frmelty 1:9 Animale

'V

TANGANYIKA DIVISION. , ‘1
Pﬂ. Box 18“.“Teiephone 20554

. Dtsuandl
D'i?’&9$07‘.‘~—Mr3. Isobel Slater, M.B.E1 H9, quamtev

1’ Hausa-“Telephone N0. 675.25.) B“§(i'i‘ﬁ03?0 STREET’
1 , ; DAR. EB SALA AM. 1211?.

Sheikh Abedi could ,I' m oert919,91ve 9 lot 91 191911191199 of Mn I 99

trying to do for 9919913, 9nd throu9h them,tne 999919, 19 199999v1ha. D9

try 99d corner him in N. Y. a he 99 999 19 he on 9 1919.3919199 1991 9f
cities in Ameri 99. Meanwhile Der 99 89199 919 191 without 119 Meyeri I 1019

him to be sure to note 911991 in no 9191119 ed 999911199 of the 991-9,99919

he see geete,mh999,do key9,ete., "99999199 91991 the hney Streets. 999 he

sure to come beck end 991 Der 99 eel“ 9 9199999 uh in thie respect! Delw

‘ie ve it or not, D91 99 991999, 999 to become 9 City, hee no 999119 pound be-
09999 the preeent 999191991 Uéuneil 1099111 think it neee9eery1v99 9 999 911,

the"poor" R.S,P.Y.A. has to collect hone» end fed,9ll the stray 91d Ieet '

enime].e in the piece, 99d too,I had to find money to build e‘Shelter to

cope with 911 thie. I th91910r9,91n erely hope thet 8191Kh ﬁbedi will leern

Homethine on h19119 veIs. Do hope he will.mehe 9 9999 9999999991 191 me,

99d Ienxewv1K9 9 neturel rA 919991 Sheikh Pbecli b91119 9 rievout Au11m hes

been 9 9993 Sticky over the humane 91.91»h1er 91991199 9 enether 999999 why

I put hiin on the committee « he is 99:19 1.99 t ernel1y, on 91111 heeitent over

the 99 e of the humane 91999199 999.

As you will note, I'm 91111 tied to R.S.P.C.A.l mush to 991119999y.

It is 1nnredihle how 19 9k199 in 9999191999199 t1;e London 999919 ooeqr to
99,19 not jumping to it,9e regerde the needs of thie 9999119 91 9999991
both 99 re€““d finenoiol help,9 99 991999991 19 t9 Re over 1199 me. I em
hevine 9 very worrvin9 1199,119199 to 99rd off, 9 9999191 999999 of11y 119199
999, throu9h leek of f19999191 eeontity for them. They ere nnly $£aying
on the job, for my 99 he. I have eppeeled so meny times to London to give the
99999<9ry 119999191 9izeurenoe for these men, end so fer,nothin9 99tiefeet~
ory has meterielised, Neither ie~there any 91939 of 9 suitehle person to
take over the edminietretion of thin 999991991109. meIOUmIY,I cennot walk
out end leave the 919991.91199 I heve ozeeted end built up, to 99119999,
theze fore, I 99 still weiting. However, I 99 991king 9 91911 with the Humane
LdUCqI10U1In0TltUIe 5f Africa, wh1ch I know is needed so deeneretely, end of

course, in this wey,I shell still he able to e ontrol hune 99 999991199 in
T999 9nv1k9,,1he R. S P.C.A. won‘t be able to do 11,9999 I hend over)but I
wish 99 Americ n 919991991109 would be interested in "edopting" the new
organisation. Finenoe is 90199 to be the 9999,I, having reieed money for
1999 for the R.S.P¢C.A.,feel now, thet I muet concentrete on finding a
me 9999 of fineneiel support for the Humane Edncetion project. I nerteinly

cannot collect money for the R. S. 1 (3.9. 99y longger. I wonder whether hr
“erowit, through his organisation would 99 interested 1n hev1nr 9 control—
ling interest in the new project. Headquarters 999 be in m9nmny1ka end I
19111 work from here. There is so much to do,9nd only this we e<, I heve had
another 9999 991 from Uganda to heln eteit humane educe.tion emong the ind19~
enous peOpIe. I do think that my pre sent Loneon HQ is missing 9 wanderw
191 opnortunity,in not being: interested in widening its hounderiee in Africa
911d enpnort required, f199991 Iiy, to 9 project that will, be of

 




for the Prevention of Cruelty to An male

TANGANYIKA DIVISION.
P.0. Box 1844.-——Telephone 20554 ‘ --
lanai

Di
Directors-«Mrs. Isobel Siater, M BE He“ quanta!“

{.[Iozosez—mTelephone No. 67525.} 3 . I BAGAM 1170 STREET,
DAR ES BALAAM. T11".

t1m199hle value to these oﬁetorol Africen etetes. Livestock is the

miih 9091 oe of livlihood of so meny millions, and wild life too, mee he 9
reel Source of wealth to 9 country. London must be eeleepi HomV ever,
I 9999 to go 9heed,9hd 9lthough I 9m tie d 9 bit for the moment, 9 lot can
be done 19 the 191ti9l et9gee for 99y 999 099991setlon in prep9ring the
99y. If some 9991999 orge 9199 otion<humehe) would 9dopt the new African

vo1ct, then the men whom I have been training for so long, might e9eily
he dr9Tted 19 T01 the field work. I feer,ih 99y oese,theee meh,won't
t9ke too reeollv 1:9 9.9V heweomer into thie orgeoieetion, end with the u9~
19919191V of the1r position at present, they would ell jump 9t the eh9hce
of 9109199 the:ir 9bility Tor work 91th w1der horizons. whatever happens,
the work To1 9919919 momt {3.9 on for through the ere of 9919919,w get at
the 990919 999 help them too m there Tole humehe 999011199 works in 9 three~
Told 99V,i.e. welTere of ehimele,19ro11h thet, better standards of living
T9? the people, 999 thet naturelly helps the country' 9 economy. It's all
too big 9 ouh3eot to try 999 191919 in 9 le etter - perhaps one d9y,l,too,
999 Vieit N.Y 99d m999313t 911 91991.

Theok vou SO much Tor qehdiip the 11Mt resting Infotmetion fie_1_><.‘11"t.
I don't 91199 9t 911599199 given 9 minor role"19 Ir atemeheph seddreee,1'm
only too pleased to note the interest in euoh m9t+9re,1n Americ 09. I will
999d the Report to thdelleh Fuhdikira — he will he thrilled, and I guess
will blush 9 little: However he 19 9 food fellow, 99d does support 99,19
ell 9V work, I only m1eh I could"t19 h1m down" 9 hit I 099 hardly oonteet
h1m 9t 911 theee ﬂove One th19 m 9919 is certein, the ewerd made to
him,w1ll keep him on the hume11e 199 of th195 19 T91199v1k9 99d 99 he is
9 1191“Tor‘oow 1919ter for Letol ’TT9199 it “HOUId 930 9 long way to keeom
‘99 him with ue in 911 91019919 1hdert9ken. I would like 990ther 00py of

the Report to keep by me, .9 encouregement,1T you 999 99 good enough to

9999 it.

'9 999919’ you h91991th 9 oooy of the ore Gehtotion to my hueoend
of the modela I’m ewTul.ly re VtetTul the t I did not have the opportunity of
telling V1 ”1111999 myself,etout the 991k here Also, 9 919+uxe of me'
999ther mvmhol oT the freedom for 911991I em tryihe to oer 9:1 eh thie Ve or
of 19099991999» It 19 9 p9 19191999 m"11119 1.9 these ouotTIes ooptu1.9£ 999
“9919 wild birds. The 9191999 19999119 Venice, 999 well publicized there,
19 oonnie knew ehout m; 9019 19 uﬁTric 9 T9 99 19y hos ts 19 Vehic he a the pictu
939*19999 When I 999 en route heck here. Also, for your 1oter,9t 9 preSS
cutting 9h99199 9999 of the pictures in my rece1t 1919t190 oompet1t1oh a
99 V99 will 999 the picture of two ATV19999 re scuihg 99 911mol is bee ed on
the hum9he eiucet109 19911099 reoe 1_Ved, 996 cleqzly 9howe t.he impree 9109 mede
The PTr1oooe,throuwh th19,9re 1w? 99999199 wild life from p1t999d
999199. The hird 9911199 it9 freedom is 9 lovely symbol of liheyty,9hd I
9h911 he 19191 it on thouo9hdo of pooteI for my "uhuru" Scheme to oeleb~
rete indehehdeore u I 91m 9t 9 ereet 11horotioh of birds from mieerehle
9960 ”lyhT throupnnuf Tansnnvwka 99 Independoho Dey. For the moment,

 




 




Y?

Thursday, July 6, 1961

 

 

4:5

Dar Mayor
wins heart
of U.S. city

MANSFIELD, Ohio, Wednesday

TO Mayor Amri Abedi of

Dar es Salaam has gone
the distinction of being the ﬁrst
honorary citizen in the 153-
year history of Mansfield. Ohio.

He has just ended a four-
day visit here —— after laying
the groundwork for a people-
to-people association between

, Dar es Salaam and Mansﬁeld.
He carried away with him not
only the title of honorary
citizen and a key to the city
but also the warm affection of
the townspeOple.

“I have found the pe0p1e in
Mansﬁeld my brothers and
sisters,” he said. “What made it
possible for us to accept your
invitation to Mansﬁeld so
quickly was our belief in the
oneness of humanity.”

Mansﬁeld, with a pepuiatjm
of some 60,000, is a t-ﬁmimgigi
industrial city in Azraeriggg‘s

 

 




In.

\

‘x

Mrs. Isobel Slatar
P.O. Box 23473

Dar es Salaam
Tanganyika, Ea A.

Bear Hrs. Slater,

It was gosd to hear from you. I’ve “been away and just- returned. Mr.
Mermﬁt drcpped in t9 talk about his erganizatien. I we 31:38? how years 5.3
Gaming? I'm sorry you“% had difficultma with the RSPGA and; wish you
well in year 136‘»? mrk. 3330 let me know how yam come along . -

We haven’t heard from Sheik Abedi, but. FE . Fiemwi‘b says he hopes ta
hear from 11:11}! on his rattan} anti will lat us know. Do you mink it mum be
helpful to hold a receptizm far him Gr intmduce him t0 any anther mimal
protective workers? Any background an his. mrk: which 3731: could set-3nd us
would be helpful.

How is Chief Fundikira dining with the war}: new?

Encloaeé: is a raspy of the Information Eepart that carries Ambassaciar

Stevenson “a speech referring "to African animal pretesztivea work. If yam
feel this can be helpful in any way and maid like extra cepies, please let
me know. I wish more credit {which you :30 richly deserve) has been givan m
you, but hope that the African emphasis will prove valuable in itself. Armasaador
Stevensen was ﬁt) terribly “busy that he cauldn’t give the kind «91‘ time to tm
‘ subject that woulci have given him a cmplete and full mademtanding of him wark,

but I hope: that it will give the encouragement w it that} is £50 mush needed.

I look fwmard to hearing from you when yam am not tow busy, but 3mm mat
take care of youraelf and mt war yourself out. ‘-

I have a picture of the medal being given to Cheif Fundikiz'a which appeareci
in a nespaper, but ”I don't have the mesmtation of your medal to yam" huabam
and would be most pleased to have any picture you could send. ‘

Best wishes,

Sincerely,

 




,3 ar es ea aam
P. C OK 2473 D S l ,

q awn .L'n

W": ‘

lenganyika E. A.
June 12th,196l.

Dear Mrs Stevens

I've trying to get a moment to write to you, ever since
I returned from overs eas - but what chaos I came be ck to, at R. S. P. <3 .A.
HQ.. I'm still completely involved,pullirg things together again.

This is a brief note to let you know, that a very in—
fluential African, Shiekh Amri Abedi, has just left for the USA, and I have
taken the pr1v1lege,eud opportunity of giving; him a letter to you, and

also, to Mr Merowit. Shiekh Abedi, is Mayor of Dar es Salaam, an important
Muslim, a religious leader, a member of the Tanganyika National Unimn,and
a member of the National Assembly,as well as being a member of my R.S.P.C.
Committee. ' Mr Merowit wanted some first hand expression from Afrimn
leaders,of the needs of this country at the present time, so I thought
Shiekh Abedi would be a useful person to speak of such matters. Sheikh-
Abedi carries a letter to the Mayor of New York,from the citizens of Dar ~
he is visiting America on invitation.

I am still tied up with R. S. P. C. A., but hOpe to be able
to hand over shortly - but it would seem, I shall have to keep a watch on
things for some time to come. However, I am g:etting on with the first
stages of my other projects, and hope that these will develop in due cours:
Please note private Box number - the time has come to keep all personal

correspondence separate from R.S.P.C.A..

I ha d a very plain~speaking discussion with the HQ in
London, and felt obliged to point out a few home- —truths,particularly in
connection with the lack of interest diaplayed over the tremendous job
being accomplished in Tanganyika. I was somewhat shocked to discover that
little interested was in evidence: Amazing: The whole of Africa is crying
out for assistance as regards humane education,etc., and our HQ had a
wonderful Opportunity to widen the boundaries here,in Tanganyika - but no
response to the chance I offered. The thing that worries me,is the fact,
that there seems no suitable person available,as yet, to come out here, and A
take over. I am out on a limb — naturally,l cannot drop out and see the ‘
organisation I have built up over so many years, fall into a state of de-
cline, or come to a.standstill. London has the money, and I have said, veryA
plainly that they must now take responsibility for providing funds and
staff. Tanganyika has little money to spare for animal welfare, therefore
outside interests must assist over the difficult period— also, when I
hand over, staff will be required ~ the Division cannot be a"one-man"
stryggle any longer, and I don't think there are many persons who would
take the job,under such conditions — even at a large salary! Well, I I
await further deveIOpments, but definitely,I am getting on with my other A
projects. I have made this clear to London. ~

I will write you an informative letter soon - this A
month is simply packed with matters to be cleared up,fund-raising,and allA
sorts of things, apart from the general routine,getting more and more every
day. Now,over lOOO branches to maintain: An almost hOpeless effort,on '
nothing, and no staff worth mentioning: certainly no experienced staff.

A
A
A

 




A-
I ho e ell » , w ,.. ' ‘
i p} a goes well ﬁlth you. I had 9 nice leave,but very short _

had 5 weeks in 3 Clinic in London, and the doctors ordere‘ me to liv;
_like e vegetable for the next six months, and rest a lot: quite mn—
likely,l should think: What a pity I had to miss the presentation
of the lovely Schweitzer medel. My husband deputised very well,l
gather. Did you ever receive a photograph of the preeehtetion? if not
‘1‘11 send you one. V

with beet regards, and excuse haety letter.

Sincerﬁly, f ri,ﬁ

Q.
i I 1
iii~h
'* gét‘~*’

/
I

M

, va-N’"w ‘
... r ‘ '

DIRECTOR,E.S.PWQeﬁT’

“wwui

Teegeeyfﬁa.

«4—— First fold here—ﬁ.

To Open cut here ->

E It. :SSQIPPE Pug amen S‘JGPIIOS
2 ,

1

b 1.}. it:

B
emIUV
r“: 'I
C) L

T

"IIVW AHVNICI‘cIO .LEI .LNEIS HO
'SueAei~

fEID‘dVHDHHS EIH TIIAA 11 3300 L1 :11 ‘EIHHSO’IDNEI

 

ANV NIVLNOC) .LON CI'IHOHS HELLLEI'I HIV NV
‘g‘xaox met
"13 qiLt 1863 a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘eqnqtgsul exegtee T

 

 




AI‘JIMAL {=37'IFAR’" INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
ﬂew York 3, N. Y.

April 1c, 1961

Mrs. Isobel Slater

?.9. ﬂex lﬁhh
ﬁarwas~831aam,’Emnganyika, E.A.
'Eaar ﬁrs. Slater,

Thanks far year good letter. I hcp@ that your new
organization will fare anaeaasfully anﬁ well.

I haven‘t aean the ghatagragh.yau speak of ar heard
'ahaut the awaréimg of tha madals excapt from you, so do
plaase let ma know anything 0f interast on this when you
returﬂ So thai wa can giva a report t0 the meetings for I
kmﬁw thosé preﬁent will.ba intereated.

Anything mora that yen would like t9 Say‘about the

new nrganizatian can be meatianad than, ten.

I’m glad that,your haalth is impraved. You will need

atrengﬁh for the granﬁ_effnrt you plan he make.
ﬁast Wighag,

inc-@8132

 




Aﬂlﬂm11WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East lYth St.
New'York 3,1New’York.

March 15 , 1961

Mrs. Isobel Slater

3/0 Standard Bark sf South Africa, L1d
Sui“£alk Reuse, Park Lane

1:086:01}, W. 13 England

1., 311;, . "a. J. a- '
136313;,“ 1.}, “ 1,353 berg

1EEE} V02 10? van kiné lEttEE. I hope that your hEEltE
' Ev iynwqu 1 yam? 11:1p1 I 119E I could 3E1 away too
131%. ‘

EE:iEE Er. surgEEi tg E"! in hunch with 30E,‘EEEing
EEEE EEJE 11 1E EEEE EEE hﬁlw‘YDmES, Ehmugh

L

*} EEE E12 EECE 1 EEEE EE we REE: Egg 1E E13 Enrk

('1
> ‘7 » yaw-gr- a. .1 c w ..,l 1 5:. '1'“ . .3. J ‘ , j ~.‘ 7" ‘ '
1 E0 r“ EE' 1EEE LE1113: Egbﬁ E1E EE1 EE is

1E EEEEEE1 EEE 3E1mﬁlﬁ‘frﬂﬂ.kﬁiﬁ€ ..... Ltrvmznated.
SErtE E1 1E11 may EEEE 1E1E EEEO. 1E1° EEEEEEllEEd
“ ‘ CE:1E AEEE GE.
1.?

E12
aEiE ; i WE: E E woulE_EE

'1
L
. -... «L
1111?“-liif’} I‘LEMi’VI‘. rt. ;
.3 . E.
,flzoﬁEE E0 EEEE E Ea

'EELEEble.

VV.‘
aw 1. 1.4 a.” ._‘ .q. _ _ . ,4“ »'
‘ 1 if...» 3"} A . ‘ Z ‘ ’ I a
At, - «7’ k 4).— ,, J. J‘ i x ¢ 4 *

A

.S
i
l

w‘F‘

1 I <. y .
w: 3'11

1 a; u11EE11 “113-1;1 :wE;:;;EEE3“EE EffErt 10 (EEEE E10; E1 “mane
VEJCEUﬁ an EEE active gqudl " .a;’ EEEEEEE EEEic in 13
E16311? E1 mEjEE immEybgnuwg Euﬁe ”; E2? 2",“; C11E1 10 EErsuEdE
E61] E'EE uaEErstnE .11 mf)p@"_' EE E111 d0 EEEEEVEE WE can 10
ESE 151 *

.xJ

Gar efforts here in bEEElf of ZEEE ratorv Enimals Ere ErEatlv in
need 01 strong help) attachpd as 1E EEE'EEE on the ﬂue hand by anti-
vivisection greup313nﬂ, on tne othex', by medical research groups.

Best wishes,

Sincereky,

 




909$ 6&9 1. K n $1 “N1 3 F 1.

c qmgNNVCVCrN} x
9.1; 51 @924 1 1 E .2. E1 , 1 f 291% 1%:

. OVQA‘WCCPM: it? 01(5vath on? v. ﬁCIﬂxAv ““ka .
. {Fr x ._
115% E11,... 1% 11.; ? 1 .
x1 . J ,1 , M 1
QIY .§u I mg? m‘c ﬁlTﬁttb 0”,

$191413.

1 ,1 1m 1 1 .. .
1. . 1‘ 1 1 1. 1 . . . a

w .. _ 1.1? bye. 1bfﬁhdr§1 w
,1, .1 1 1.1M $41,).qu E :3. Eur.“ 1 :11.

f
(fauna

a 1 .1 . , 1 {LP 1 .. ~ . .
.. .1 1 . (IE I ﬂy git FL. @9911} ©AfeHHtI
., . 911.. 71% L? 80597 .1 -1 (n , hr ﬁfakkﬁh . Na? ,

 




w? 61 I»: zéLAyWé/Quwfg‘
a)" 5524- ‘ (Q KIM WW.
UbizozwéJw
SAWMWW
71° bud/(7’

:2; CC (“gm/bu“ J‘ am.» We gait'ﬁ , . A w . , ,
M LW Du. L522) 5!; M 3%1H» “Cw—3'“ Surf-:14 *' 4’3} 0C,

. 4 m,“ MM TBA—(U 944... J‘4 V: 5: «21%»:

9:»

6M»- Mbu 1.!“ Dad!“ ' '
m..th $41.: ~34. awn/011:7 j-
‘J'SM- WU~ 8%” JR:

MWmuwf 4&3”;

“32:41“ VME"? CG “$4 $2.“ an: , wag Elm», bwvx—E'ﬂ
4% am ﬂick/”2,...“ 72.”; 2:423»: .. " WW g

(-—— First fold here———-) . ,

K3

To open cut here -)
" nomv nva

 

F 19591131)? pue amen s‘Japuag

(—— alaq p103 puoaag ___)

 

 

 

'TIVW AHVNICIHO m .LNEIS HO
CIEID‘cIVI—IDHHS 518 "mm .L1 9800 11 :11 SHHHSO'IQNH

 

 

 

IANV NIVLNOQ' .LON mnof—‘Is 1131.131 ‘cIIV NV

 

 

 

ESV‘IS edgy-mam“ , "

 




Sta dard Bank of South Africa,Ltd.,
Suffolk House, Park Lane,
London,$.l.

5th March 1961.

D a' a. . - - ~ ,,.
e.r am so pleased to find your welcome-letter,dated st

March,awaitihg . g arrival from Switzerland. First Of all, I have ﬁ’
heard from my husband in Dar es Salaam, and he tells me,that Mr Duggan,
(who incidentally,is a friend of his),asked him if he would deputise for
me,to receive the medal from Governor williams on 27th Feb. My husband
agreed to accept the honourwith great pleasure. Chief Eundikira,of course
was to he at the function also. However, it is a bit difficult making con
tact with Chief lundikira as he always seems to be on saﬁari for his Ein~
istry ~ that,is érooably why you have not heard whether he received the
cheque or not, but I am sure he did receive it. l,too, am awaiting a repl
to a letter to Chief rundikira. l was delighted to received my cheque in
Switzerland, and you will note,l have cashed it. It will help to buy a
new film to take back to Tanganyika,to try and raiSe some funds. Films
are so pepular, and the right type of film with a humane interest can go
a long way in the promotion of humane education, which to my mind must
have the highest priority in African countries for the help of the rural
animal~owning people,to whom academic education would be of little value—
being quite above them. I will contact the American Embassy here, and
see if there is a chance of seeing Governor Williams,should he come to
London. l would like to thank him personally for bringing the medal.
I am most interested about the visit of Mr Charles
Merowit to Tanganyika, and would indeed be most happy to meet him and try]
and formulate some plans regarding my idea of getting an African Humane
Education Society started. There is such a vast field in Africa for this .
most essential form of education, which,oddly enough,gets completely 01er:é
plooked by all those planning educational schemes for these%ﬁndeve10ped i
countries. as mentioned above,it is humane education which is desperately
needed by the vast herds of undevelOped,pastoral peeple, whose whole livli
e_hood depends on livestock. Except for what I have accomplished in this
reapect in Tanganyika,nothing has been done in the other African countriesl
in this direction, and I think the time has come when,this aspect of educ-l
ation must be regarded as of essential importance. Thcs whole subject is i
one of great appeal to the indigenous peeple, and something they can un— ,
derstand,and are avid to learn more about. I am highly disappointed with?
the attitdde of our London HDQTS.,in this res ect.(This;in condidence) l t
have therefore told them that I wish to hand over the Tanganyika organis-
ation which I have established, so that I can devote my time to wider ex-

pansion of humane education throughout the African countries, as well as E
concentrating on plans to protect Wild Life. These aspects,require vision,
and keen application towards accomplishing something which is crying out
for attention a but,alas, London is slow to understand the full implicatid
of such invaluable activity, and not forthcoming in providing the means to
promote the expansion. Pity. However, I intend,on my return to Tanganyika,
after ensuring the safe progress of the present organisation, to get on to
the wider expansion of all matters relating to humane Education in other
territories, amongst these awaiting such help,are: hyasaland, the Rhodesi~'
as, the Congo, EthiOpia, and of course,Kenya and Uganda.(These two latter
countries have been very shortsighted as regards briiging in the indigen:
ous masses to the realms of humane knowledge) The Codgn positinnm3§wﬁwfmk

 




To open cut here ->

desperate, where nothing has be1°,n done at all, to establish even a normal
society for the c.re of his ls. As re5ards the mention you make oﬁ
ranching in connection with wild life — it is quite true, that this aspect
is now under consideration of the new Tanganyika.§ame department - which
comes under Chief vundikira' s hinistry. I think it would be an eXcellent
project, and would go a long way to helping plans for the 91.1eryaiion of
wild life. At the preseit time, the unhappy“legacy from the last Colonial
sovt.,hos left no chance at all, for a preperly planned system of inimil pro
tection. It is clear as daylight, that wild liie must be crourht under a
system of exoert control, to ensure that crops are protected,poacn1n5 and
illeaal huntin5 eliminated that certain animals may he Killed,humanely,for
food, and that noserves are numerous enou5h to preserve all species of the
wonderful herita5e oi the country. This,nill take a lot of exoert plannin5,
but in my opinion,should not pr sent (rent dit llPUllV,ClV@ﬂ the staff and 7
financial hacking necessary. We cannot any lon5er tolerate indifferent and
haphazard handling of the situation. It is a job to be done, and without
delay - a 5reat job which means considerable financial benefit to the counm
try. I have personally,now started a fund with the idea of establishin5 a
Sanctuary Gardens near Dar es Salaam — both for the preservation of youn5
wild animals, and as a muchmneeded attraction in that area m the establishe'
Game Reserves are far too far awov from Dar es Sale 1am for the ordinary peo—
ple,schools,and touissts from ships eellin5,to see anythi :15 of wild life

at all. I shall be returnin5 to iAHquyly neXt inonth a sailing from Ven—w
ice on April 12th, and if you can put 1r morewit in contact with me, it
mi5ht result in some action. At the moment,l an new in the hands of doctors'
and not too happy about things, tut ho ;e 311 1111 be well, and 1 can 3311 88'
scheduled. ' Aaain, thank you sincerely for all your 5r1tly “corec11teu
interest. I will write la lquédi@%MWMub—H$npp cly Vours, ﬁg, '

HWWVHSOHHV
NOIAV 87d

:SSGJPP? p“? 911191] S‘JQPUQS

 

IS IBQOSI

 

outgstiu

,I

oue15 o/D

 

<-—— 9191 p103 puooss -——->
E

 

111 1881

T 1-

.Imnnn
n

“l“?“vo
.3
sea

'"IIVW AHVNIGHO LEI .INEIS HO
his

GHDHVHDHHS as THAA 11 3300 11 :11 53111130131151

3/1111,
T
L
. . .C '0'
’33
-.l

 

iﬂiﬁxlse

‘0'“; .C‘rirfr
ans 1
‘SUQIL

 

EU E3 ET

1:}.
A
\J

 

f
K

XNV NI‘v’lNOC) .LON CI'IHOHS 1131131 HIV NV

 

JO

 

 

‘ 9 D 1 3": f-B-G-‘gx-I}; if...
5
1
19V 130.139

 




V yzﬂaﬁa gi/wﬂéwa ﬁé/Mﬂé /g%m

M V? eff/ran 9% an 2473;

1‘3)

1-5,!”
$/- 2;»; .' 6/525 9&2 ed .46; aam,

5 » éé 682/
ghao/at x ago/e/ Jé/iatlzw, u%%f “yaﬁﬂé u a h
2nd June 1962.

I

E’jeizw—e 3‘

Dear Mrs Stevens,

Please don't let the delay in answering letters,worry you-
I know so well,what it means to be snowed under: All the same, I was very
happy to hear from you,and thank you. My recent letter to you,probably cros-
sed somewhere.

This will be a short letter for the moment, but I wanted
to answer a few points frem your letter. But first of all, please do not
inconvenience yourself anyfurther,trying so kindly,to place those little
African stories of mine. It's always a chancey sort of thing - somebody eit—
her wants a certain type of story,at just such a time, or they don'ti Do
please just return the M.S.S. per sea mail - they can rejoin the mass in a
drawer againl But I am most deeply grateful to you,for taking so much trouble
over the matter. .

Yes, I think Fairfield Osborn would be a useful sort of
person to heme in the Sponsors list. If he has the right attitude towards .
all living creatures,and can have consideration for his fellow-men,as well as
for animals - he will do. I may still need his help as regards an endowment
for the ﬂild—Life Sanctuary project in Dar. I'm still fighting ézﬁe~trading
type mercenaries who are trying to stage an opposition 200% I will write
to Fairfield Osborn,if you would please let me have his address?

As soon as I can get some other printed stuff out,I'll send
something else to the Hipleys. I'm still waiting to get hold of our Treas—
urer. I spoke to him on the phone ever a week ago,and he promised to come in
and get a statement together - yesterday,I heard he was on safaril he is a
member of a C.A. firm,and often goes off on safari. If he does'nt turn up
soon, I'll try and persuade my husband to help - only I never like taking him
into my 'good works' if it can be avoided. He has been long suffering:

Attached a cepy of another item with the printers. This is
something I was asked for urgently,i.e. a guide for those interested in HEIA,
something to help them,as to what they can do. It will be in English and
French. You will note I make a big point of 'Compassion for all living
creatures',as Dr Schweitzer wanted. I hepe he will send me some material for
writing up in print. You know,this is going to be the big problem — keeping ,
up supplies 6f progressive materiall As mentioned, if you could send any odds
and ends of useful information dealing with animal care,child care, psychology
philosOpgy,etc., it would be a great help. I think we have started something —
really bigl I have had letters thanking me for the philgsephnggpppnded,and
the need for this type of humane teaching,in a world sorely off its axis!
There is a great,moral need for promoting the principles of humanity - yet,
statesmen and educators have not taken sufficient interest in this form of
humane education. I think HEIA must do something about it ~ slowly,slowly -
and arising fnom the need for the protection,and care of all defenceless thing,

At last,I have had a long talk with Chief Fundikira n he has
returned from Mecca,full of the good,he means to do. He has assured me that he
will support-and help HEIA in every possible way. But,this in great confid~
ence ~ he wants to get out of Governmenti (We had a heart to heart talk) He
says he cannot be a party to,so much hopeless mismanagement,going on among his
colleagues. Also, the recent spate of deplorable animosity towards the British,

' 2
#3
i,
f3

+ :2”
ah
i
3,

i
ii
i

 




emshetiug from Nyerere & 00., has sickened him5ahd several other good type
Mihisters as well. V I‘m very sorry.for Fundikira _ he is such a decent type
and gives dignity to his position as Minister for Justice, butl can readily
.understaud how distesteful he feels it,to have his oolleagues"ruuhihg doeh'
the British govt., and people,(iholudihg all of us,still in Teugeuyika)aude
vfor.all this to appear in the press. Abdallah feels it very muoh,aud is tere_
ribly ambarraSsed by it — thet old friends,like'my_hushahd and I,should'eveu-
have to think ebout a future..'he,of course, has a large Chiefdom,eud is ‘
Very concerned about it «'feels.he would be muoh better at home with his pew
ople,than e.member'of e yery‘shakey govt? In any oase,he is worried'ehout‘
-thepooroquality of meh,seut out recently by Govt.. to tahe over the verious
.uegious - one of these Regions covers his Chiefdom. Well, next week the ‘
Parliament meets,ehd_we are bracing ourselves for.shooksl end how,the’Goyt..
has declared its iotehtioh of hayiug_a Republio,es from Deo.,uext1 - ‘

p This confidential talk came about When 1 was disoussiug the proposed
constitution for HEIAgahd that I thought it a good idea to have-ou&.permanw
.‘entH.Q. in New York - youIbeihg marvellous enough to consider it a because
if'I have to leave Tanganyika iu the foreseeable future,heia must have a per~
moment H.Q. This upset Fundikira very much. EOWGVEr,he.thought that at
present,we could affiliate with your organisatioh,ehd loter.meke ahother
plan - when we see whether things will settle does here or not. So perhaps,
meantime,we leave it at that. “3333f you are in accord, we'll take affiliat
ion with the A.W.I.,as settled. x-ﬁheh I get new letteruheadsvprihtedgwe oah3
make somethihg_more impressive,addihg our Advisory Board'memhers,ehd,8pousor~
and Patrons,eto.v I~do hope_you may get some advantage through the assoc
‘iatiou with HEIA m I’m convinced'we can go far with our ideals. Aleeys remee,
boring that in Africa*4 to talk just about animals alone,will defeat our
whole purpose. We must keep the policy bound up in the most humanitarian
p'wey possible. i , ' o ‘ . ‘ , a . y
' ' » ‘You will be glad to know that through the agitation Caused by;HElA
in Ruauda~Uruudi es regards the possible aoaudOhmeut of domestic animals w“
a whole Aircraft has been chartered to take all the pets out of the country
.before the.dread day of ludepeudeuoei However,l shudder to think of.the masse
;acre‘of human life there will be,0h independence. It is criminal to allow_"
such a barbaric and primitive country become independent so soon. The two ,
main tribes are just waiting to out each otherslthroats. Already,they haye'
started,aud as soon as the Belgian army feroes arewithdrawu,there'll be uo_
kind of competent Control at all. If ever a country'needed Amerioeh aid, ‘
Ruenda—Urundi does. I only hope that the UN are not being oomplaoeut.”he '
still have the horror of the Congo with us; ‘ '." '

Our new Patron, Ivan Smith,UN representative,now for E.A., was a
in the Congo thrOugh all the trouble, and was foroibly dragged from a dinnel
party for some higherenking visitor, and beaten up. He is,a grand mau,end *
should be of much use to me,here. >He is a friend of Adlai Stevenson. p: v

, ’. We have got a start in Senegal and the Ivory Coast m two more j
French-speaking countries,liking our organisation very much, and wanting
mpg; literature: lt.looks as if any funds that some aloug,Will all go out
on printing,aud mailing eXpenses. But,efter all, that is the reel.objeot of
HEIA,to spread a humane moral influeuoe over undeveloped Africa ~ Who knowsg
>but perhaps we may even beat the"orazy for power” politicians,yet? ;

All for how, my sincerest thanks for everything,
' Yours,’ ‘

‘ I

i

P.S. Poor hiss Williamson is still in
hospital.l am so distressed about
her health.

 




., ."
L’- g» 0:

I m

I. v:
.r
‘-

>“

‘14! hn" «1w ‘w-L

z“; W»-

3‘" ,

I "‘

‘.

m

' Y7

I?

A

i ’n "u’

.. :3;

a,“
ifn‘

, Nr 9‘ ‘.

:L‘ 6“

u:

50"

1

V

"‘
“v
M

E)

.,

I.~

' ,, (at; . ‘

:5

vi...
1.
a}
.91...
\nv.

’ ". r
vi; :9 '5 I’

Q

~ . t
. 5w . windy». .m .m I
I; I, n

WI”,
fin»

mat MU

,¢-'. 1f: 4"}: ."r’
s .- I. v" t
1‘»

m

9,.

"Iﬂﬁ

#

l

v"

pa; n
3

(#917 M

‘QK'i

E" w." i'
. J ;.§A&:’::

. . . Q
0 “HA. ml! TN» min

4

i 3%

IN

I “I

4%

"315‘
Awaﬁ.

"I
I3

I. ;
..
4.
5..
.:I.

.2.

r. I
a!

i

1

{2}

II

4":
13'-

r.

.4:

If...
a

.. VII;

.
’ ..1~.v.

It“. a.

“A.

.5. «Hm. 5...“ NW TM,

PM

3.07,... W...» I . 5 V1?
.. 3. N .I I
.r. «I... I .. II. I...
we..." 19 ﬁ
a. m wk»... #5.: .13“ I

I

Q - .QI1LIII;
TI TI mm 3. G J. . ..

«ﬁg 3”. mm W.

an},

lab

I .Ru. I. , 3. .
1.x. x .5. Mt“. W. “U
TL. .,

ms 31

I.
a

Q , ”,me mniwlrw

kid

I,
was

1

{3

.

«A

I'm 31$"

.5...»
at f ‘3
Av‘NkQ

I!

' 1 4' if - .1
»,..: vim-aw HF
‘> as".

aw;

u

L2. {3 I £3

a}. u
I. .2.

” l I“? I“ I ‘9

1*
J5

was}

,
. M
I...M'

:aﬂ‘
,2”

9‘

I"
W

““1: -‘I
t

i
£1 1

.EJI

~ﬁﬁﬁ£

a:
k

6'1 I/r' ' '"’ ”I“
133.1”:4} 1' » it”)
uni. 'w‘ w w

4.:

‘7 a» v “’
JI- m ‘m‘h

3g}; .'.‘ _

I“ . _

_§III

A

It: .‘7‘

I

~I69IIIII~
.‘v
k:

1

$3

I. I.

+

III

. V
‘ y 73.3w *7 v.4.-

.33; I

:4

um I: ‘~

L

.K. ”a
5i
M

53'3"

V:

J}; ’1».

‘1:wa

"91 ml

1

mm

.-
,. ,JA" ’,_,V

{‘1
.2

r, ._
“84'”

“a"

E

>

27¢. 1;?

)"'

‘ﬂ

, ,~:“
0

ma

y

37

6.4

:i‘é

I

Ii“

(1: g
. .v mien

1*:
I w

I,

,. 1.! «an-56x12; 7w

‘ «I

’I

i T

.‘ {'7

L II.

'~‘.

m.
'1

“1+”; .
if

"1‘;

.
3H
in

II

I”. of ..
If {I} I"); ‘1‘”,
34%;; g « .

I?;'.‘a:.
.1 _ 7‘ ﬂ
'in "
.7

. *1

If».

v '3’
I.+£‘SI.

‘ > 1W"

3%

v a
133

II

1 7%

J
“i

(i

.,.mi.

.114 5"
MJI-k’ w M

v. r'
:"l

a 1m! ‘ f

.4 .1 2”,. ,3
L ,4"

s, 7 I
:0" a»

it?) 1
up}. a.

~94
'3)

:5} "'1

,3? IN”
‘U‘EV 9 .

I’u
~‘+*ﬂh

\ ‘.
3‘?

I I, n.
l(

A.

."s
-v

‘.«,—.‘

III

‘~ ' .. a "5‘
0H,; 2,. :~ mun» ‘x‘ W rim“

.I.

‘5-

=2 ,.$‘ 1. .H

>
n.

’21:”.
$4356

V?WH&

... 1. .1.

m

«I

I3

“I;

f)£.

I

if" 3,

. 4.. m "
f5

1.

In;

1

Inez-II

55': 3": z" ’

x

a @f
I.

.1219
\2’

i

A“?!

V

a!

4.3:.

m1. "' '1;
V Emil.

1

If.

*3

a
r

in

.4
’1':
0

4.

.01 5} {.6 iv

7+"

aIIIIr

5‘... v-
PK?" ‘

5'

Sb

«1 E:

h

k

“t
l
x.

“gaﬁtiﬁmg

‘l'k

{d if:

ﬂ»

4-
i’
‘w
a,»
l
6
3r.-

3
R"

.. 7‘,

riét'

‘2’
a.)

I

.1

III

"pig:

.7 :..r

:94!"

d“ ‘
,9.

I

I. 3 ‘1

II
N74“ ”43

.‘M 2,3

." at!

I; 3; I: I "I

9

“a 1%—

‘ilm I

I $.23

It». a.
‘Wwﬁ

3y?! f: .

I. {I

‘1
k

h .

ﬂux}
4;;

II
... 9.

«ea.

”Fig.3.
I

\i..

a!“

(W‘WW $11!}

.4. 7,. ..».

y£ZIa

1...

ll

”14.24:

. In.

. ... ‘5.

{I
2.

 

in. In .
3 I: _
E.) ,
may

I
3 X
RA 3.

> _ ‘3‘“
1.3;)
5)

1... mm”
H.

,h-

mm
In? “-

 




amunw.
i a xx. .3
i}

an}? . mix. «9: mt:
H... T:

3; ﬂy. 3.

J rm“... my?» mish-

fﬂ NM

.Q.

4".
'=.r‘ 4 s‘Jv

, n w-
v’ , " .r. ‘a
«a!

it

”1
3’

l
I
-\

r3

“‘9' 5?;

am;
i
v .

m.
i
«ﬁx

,9
A-ﬁ

C
u
1

{IE
3" r.’
A;

:P'

Ru?

I
.5 J.
‘3 :5

my ,

r. L. r qV.
36* £3 L .
.‘y
if

‘g .

L8...j‘
.

.l‘eﬁ'
”Li‘ié‘égh“

v.
r»;
We

9 >. '
l a; if" “3
hi? 5%.} dag--

x r {1‘ a,“

’l 3‘

W
M

n»
.

Q

m&;y

m.
{‘1’

i

, 2r ‘ ~:
i 0.4.... n. ML.» »

A' ‘Q
‘h.
in)

.1 3,
y
“a

V

1
,-:

MJ
3! , 4

,J _

An- 9‘9 "as! Wan!

--* 7 6"":
a: '
a. w
*!

Q i"
I .1 ‘33,

k.

at»
{‘1‘ T“? r
1»! at

" n

1““
‘s,:
“a: I

2‘ Y . ' f

m

i 3m

2v: ’

1v

m m! 1.414
7"; r.

m»-
4 .3.“ p"

.L‘
s "59 E"
“a“

{I}?

u“ 1- l
.
5‘93

3 x.
3‘.

a
:ﬁ

XI}.

 




My %m¢¢zg g/Mw Z1072 c/QM/wlé a V%m

61¢!“
a?" (of f M/ 9%) £93.. 34/3?
.75/- .%m.- 5/12.?" @3 ad 4'“ 52am,

ﬂaw/m .' ﬂ/a/ ﬂaw, u/ﬁéa t: “Wa’ié‘w'éa 65M
l7th June 1962.

Dear hrs Stevens, _ 7

So happy to get your letter of June 4th w I think my last
one to you,must have crossed? And I'm so glad that you are making headway
over the protection of laboratory animals. I can indeed imagine,the tough and
concentrated job it must be for you. Still, I‘m sure you will win through.
iieading about the laboratory crimes in your Information Letter,makes me want
to cry out from the rooftops,against those monstﬁrs who can perpetrate such
cruelty. These peeple,if they could be called 'human',cannot be part of the
life that God created. Ah,me, progress and deveIOpment is one thing, but I‘m
certain there must come a time,when the world must revert to age-old simplic~
ity a it can't be possible to continue,remaining human, when science and other
somcalled progressiveshorrors,keep turning human beings into monsters. And
all those comnercial mercenaries ~ what do they think about,compassion for all
living creatures? Something will have to give,sooner or later. You Know,I
have a crazy kind of notion running round and round in my head, but how to
launch it? A WORLD HANDSHAKE'WEEKi the hand of friendliness. If everybody
in the world shook hands with every person they met m child or adult,black,
yellow,brown or white, rich and poor m and kept this up every day for a week ~"
I'm sure something of the value of a warm,hand clasp, would penetrate the
mosﬁunfriendly intelligencel Is'nt that a crazy idea? But I've often felt
so happy myself,when receiving a warm handshake, that I'm sure many people
must have the same feeling.

The way countries in Africa are going,just now, nothing
short of a cataclysm will put a step to the mad political race. Even Tangany-
ika is falling far short of all the promises made,and harmony of races, before
Independence was obtained. I shudder to think of the bloodbath that is quite
likely to occur in Ruenda-Urdndi after July lst. If only the UN witheld the
Independence until all the tribal'festering sores'were healed. I'm so relieved
in a way,that at least,most of the domesticated animals will have left the
country before that d to. I have appealed to the International S.P.A. to
try and get a mobile ©eterinary Unit on the road,for both ReU and the Congo,
but I have'nt much hope that anything will be done. Such a Unit could take
care of animals when trouble starts. So much money is pouring into this coun
try, and yet, there are vital things,and not so expensive,as providing protect
ion for helpless animals. The humans too,will suffer, but there are organis.
ions ready to deal with that problem — already many thousands of nuanda ~Urund
indigenous refugees are well settled in neighbouring countries,1.e. here,and

1n [5 nda what a peculiar way to start answering your letterl see
how my mind is galloping! Pardon.

Yes,indeed,you may well mention the typographical error-
in the ”ranch cepiesl It has nearly got me crazy. The printers here have
never had to do rench before, and giving them their due,they have made a
courageous effort - but I have to spend hours at the Vorks,reading the proofs
myself ~ not only one proof,but at least four or five - after that,I'm quite ;
weary,and can only warn them to be very careful with the last printing. How-
ever, if one of the African printers'drOps a tray of type - anything can hap-
pen to the last proof: Today is Sunday,and I have sheets of proofs on my
desk for "How to create Happiness": I've been over them many t1mes,and came

 




%ﬁ2¢ﬁﬂ gaémw £55172 ﬁéfw/é a, ugﬁbg

9"? é?“ ff e0 . 93¢ ﬁe 3473,
Z/- @4992; f/‘Z’ZI 9&2 ed da/aam,

gags/at .' ﬂ/a/ ﬁt”, ./%L%F7 (pm. “i “’12:?37 '7Qéa 61.5%
2.

on another snag ~ the woman (trench) who did the translation,differs in certain
words,etc., from the other French woman who did the typing! Now, I've had to
get all my own french c0pies,end dictionaries out, trying to s ike a happy
medium: Naturally,l'd like to have the various translations 'J” perfect as
possible, but there it isl Some countries in Africa speak and write beautiful
French, but othersl such as the Congo and Ruanda - U, pretty awful. It's
quite amusing to hear the two french women I have had helping with the trans—
lations,and typing - both so different, at both eXCellent speakers — one is

in fact,a refugee Princess (by marriage¥,and a most charming person,about 80
years of age,I should think,bput full of vitality - teaches music and french,
for a livingl I expect I‘ll4doing something like that soon - but it won't be
french! .
I have just heard from Mes Lambert ~ she sent a cheque for 80 dol~
lars,part proceeds from the film showing. A real Godsend ~ I've been getting
a little bit worried — can't dip into the old pocket so easily nowadays,like
was the'custom'in the RSPCA days: Joyce says she is sending some more soon.
She has been working very hard on the film business — I've told her,she might
as well keep ittahd carry on the good work. I'm attaching a short state-
ment of finances to date. I've waited so long for the Treasurer to come and
do the job, but he‘s away so much,nothing happened,so I did the thing myself~
not much to write up at this stage, but it shows how much has been received,a
how much expenditure. HOpe my counting is right: I c0pied everything from

the few books kept,and of course,the Bank statements. Perhaps,if you would
like to have some copies to show to any likely donors, you would be so kind
and have a few cepies typed - this would help me. The latest donation from
Joyce will go on the next statement.

I have also typed out more officially,the provisional constitution
this, after discussing it all with Abdallah Eundikira. I am getting some c0p-
ies roneod,and will then circulate again,for any final consideration. I'm stil
a little anxious about the permanent HQ, but perhaps,we can leave it finally,
for the moment.

Finally, I have had to make a decision about my eyesl and come
what may,l‘ll have to go cverseas,not later than August,and have something
done. I had another examination recently, not an expert eye man, but said to
be'quite good'~ I was getting rather bothered with the eye,and also the left
eye has been playing up. I suppose the strain on the one eye is not too good.
This man advised overseas in a.couple of months, and assured me,that something
could be done at this stage. So,I've made up my mind to get it over and fin~
ished with. '

Will write more about the work going on,a little later.

Oh,yes, please,do try and design something for Christmas cards m something
that will express 'compassion for all living creatures'. I can't think clear
ly at the moment of an ideal I'm sure you can do better than me. Perhaps you
could get the printing done in N.Y. (French and Englishi); keep a lot to send
out from your end,and let me have the rest. They just can't print here: I
would like to have some by October. I'll try and think of an idea,and let yo
know a little later. I would still love to have some nice stickers for en—
velopesl Meantime,my best wishes for your good work.

ewe, EeM

\, \ r.
"5., I. ‘ .
S {ole-x ,

 




 

 

 

 

 

19:2;

“1
J

'1
3., 3? g 31

)1 '..2

3.8.1..

a»

V 'r. .-~-0
5

9

,3“; . ,1 {.3 3
3:} f3 ' "$1. $4

111%

..
'9

1“

n
"a.

i m.
3%.“; $1.3 w

J
{2'3 3

Ch
39

tlaiw‘

taut-W, Wm

£3403

3:3

' I." ."‘§
33:

“a "b > 3:» ~."':\‘
(3* IL! 3.» 6331;?

03133.00

aw
J
R

1"* 6-}
3.3,, -3

{

 

 

 

 

3

I; 3 n
g n, m s,
4» '5‘: r

a‘ﬁﬁ g £5: t“:

‘3';

U

‘1
313

A)“.

r. m

Stata

33K

3 3:?

5 \
, l
J

A?
in.

 




 

 

’
‘\
U

ani

h
DJ

.,
"1 I“-
«mﬁgi ‘61

F" ”3‘ M

9:?

("1- a»,
‘ w“ ‘ﬁm.
‘4 ~ Mia.)

‘x

mag

?00

-~.
1'
93

£309 ’5.

.~,_
.(
,1

Z 6;";
3» t3 0

‘6
4“. LI“
2‘ E i

,4
“A.

g

’i
5

Q

“i
L.

T“. a it; 1:13,, .,

731.31? Ym x (1’00

E

calla

3-2‘

1’
:3

3'

: n1 "g

”’x
bung

‘7 '3 3'
$ '

7"“ W
‘5. .L a, O

uh
4'" ‘3'
u

i

 

1

’rai

itute-w¢u1d

w”,
AHSE

f%@

L .p ,.
3L3 CGQﬁ?

”mﬂCﬁa

mi:

ﬁg
H
i

W%
‘3; fl m

i

%w
41.».
‘§
AL

1
ted

,, .w 1 ’
madam;

.1: A.
.
5.

"463
Aid.

i
f

.k «3“.

Y.
’r‘

it

4
r
\-

‘1
VI‘ ‘_,. ' W

t

9

iﬁ f“? ﬁ&a‘

a"? diff:
J. >u V}

(”7 1

w

34
‘9‘"
v

"J
“i
A.

( _

J.

,’
u
.arv
>‘F3'

M... ,- '
,M

«,u" .

\‘o \W

am
4“,...
“w
,xsv
j I‘

' M...
"'er
‘5— I
own“

 




FFFFF foI iva a» L I :I so sicw to erFy‘tF IFFI Reuters.
lingto get cut from II i Fe :3 of correspondence and! at law
be sea 33 the lighF F:

FiFFF, you'll h IF hai the FFF new: that FFFFFSFFFI Stevenson
FFFFFF F FQFFSQI. E Fappoae FF fiFdFo JIFat as siFIFlrFF im joiL:n Fg

FQF FrFatL IﬁmLFOIIy.

1' hEW V733 ‘n‘i" L‘F’lar’d :l Ewiﬁg fray}. $2153 Eliplgyg racana}. 11'7" 1' @83T183t72f %10;)’3 b51441;
Fth-FIF i ingir FFFF FFFFIIFFFFLLF F Fmbstantiél gramﬁ FF FEKA. If yam h:FI auvﬂ
gnaw? Ifqm Them, 93‘556 FF EFF FF FFFF FF T an he}? ﬁns (juragﬁ irem Fm and.

In W

LmiF FF UFF FFFFp IFF‘I_Ity I FFFF t0 I;'°L = ugefni {ﬁfI IFI year work.
f

0 G

FFF ”F 3”Q M FIIFI Fry F ' FIF *IFVIFIIFLL CFFFFFFFFFQF” E
:F twiFF FFII Fm F~TF Fr FIF 8L1 FE itF contentag‘ naat kiFF
FF IFF mn+ MFFAFIF ﬁaf tFF FFFIF FF Wth“: :FQVFT F: 71F:
I9II*L”I FFIIEIerd.tG FF IFI”§§I: tEIiF. FeIfIIFF
mwn,.rw F“F ‘*"F F F.I lliiﬁde
FFFF FF I ; FFFFFI Ff IPIIZ 33? h Fm; F yam . 6 g the TIFFSFIFI to
a QIIFFFWF f IJIIFFFFFIF I3I FFI first 35$ ~I '-:, Ih s rLght F3 haﬁp-
EOI fI.IFF IF g LITIGwﬁsg 2? IF F FF 3F FFIIF that _F IFFIF FFnF a capy +3
JFF FIFIFVI I ')73 In; FFF FQF 3F; aIF FFIF? FI‘ I25¢ fFaFF l Laula guﬁzs E
FFFF FF ﬂ Lmﬁ‘~F«;:, 5IFF She} aﬂfhnw an -~”‘““$w i thF {Inst H”FFnuII
FF‘ F'I FagnuiFL fun - fIllm IIFF «FFIFtUIF funds iar
“pwwrltFFI f I FF FFI IIIFF mg FFI 41" 7; a required I0 faliow Fp the
FFFIFFUL yFF FIF IFFFFI, LIFFL .EFI L I'I*;L L'.J» “FLUMLFL FE“F tFIaF you
FILLL ’5: III“ Fag} I‘I’iﬂl‘it 3‘.

!

am a F FFFFFWW FF ,IF “I fI ~~ ﬁbudﬂﬁafﬁﬁfﬁ LI REEF. I must warn V611,
I: FF? at ﬁhg FF; Ff :FF ¢ Ias~; ;I33 MFFFIIL 3i». FT? IFFmS, thrae I

a
Law Fv F
IL§I~

"“132;
As;

Guns
n.
3.3:

'T
I

I laI. L “II‘F “FIIFL ;; ."‘ , “LIIL‘ .. iaaﬁy v EIIL Gi :IIatus.
‘ v- 1. ~? - u .., J... 0‘ p: . '3 5 .5, .5 .. .1: 5 .
FF} FF RFIF FF FIFE I II Le~,. L. , L IFL m FFSIrF FF d0 all
~ m. v} v .5 I l 5 ‘ J. ”a d 5‘
hnIF FF pII II _ i s“ ._l 10 t0 MFVF Fm Amarlcam addraas,

1-4
16‘” II»
u‘ L.A ".!'w

E‘ ‘I
m cg ' I I . 1' 5‘"! J” ‘ 5 1
1~€f~ IIF 1F”: FI “FIFP FFL L sib-ﬁ”~ "a F? uQFn WFFIF the IFFI

‘-..‘-'
iFI
I

5‘ Exit}: .3

FFFF CFFFF LFFFIVS:L %LI FFnFeI I»; a3 I well iﬂ ogﬁoging
‘3 FFickiFg 9y y a' uamctFaIy.

FIIF yFFI Suiria ..... the Fiﬁ I: FIFFF FF 3 FFFFF wha
zFlFGtIng F FFIIpt from a Frzend of Esteﬁla EIIFFI‘S

After IFFFF F time FFF returned Fhem yin‘ Iva:

IFm she Itﬁasﬂtﬁﬂ tﬂat we 89 nd them ”I3 30”” “IL“FIFH‘;

of whﬁch 3 I2; us. IEF Fant tnexI 013 I0 “F mJtJM F
CFFF FFFFL FF; LawF LFF ant them t0 “EFFOFIFFic ungauLneﬁL

‘.

F‘HCGF 85“: o

; IOFEFG CIIFL ﬁ‘ «III pa owngrs in fraud MWJFE i anF hoge they FF?
F0 yFuI* “F I

.IIF JFmﬂPﬁ IFII . IF to lunch mo bmut a FFFK aga LIFF FXPFFSSSW

0

LFFI 33% I held I about 30F. 1C Ohmpa FF 13 going i0 FFZF 30‘
FIIFIFI F6 ”FWF frIFn in Africa a wrxt gag, but 3 Fan *t FFFF who. f r
itm m‘mt b6 F IFiLfMI IInw t0 iﬁfiﬁe him.ta FF F wI3"“ GI 01 732A. FF 1
Haj} lIIGFI in FFIF iQI 30:13 FIILLIOF Ff FIlF Eli FIF FIFIFFI FF.0f FIFI~

“In 3n sf hIan F5. Fe II fIFFF fr om the FQLII FI IFF hwafI IcLI: .tidu
by FOFFF (0” ) telllnL hi Fth FF snosgL "LILiz x‘ *IFF F:

Iidﬁw FF git US governmmnt fVﬂﬁF " ‘

gIFFFFFFuI FFF: n fFIOI of FROFFTEHF

J“ . n L . .
4;" ‘11,} r"? ,5) .5“? ”Ti 3", A; ‘5‘ : >- . ‘ '¢ .. (a. r .}. i 5 .7: 5.", (.5- 5,,- r. .3? a“ .41., .5 F3 5 2“ . . . . - 5,. ' _ V; 5 I .. L — »- If“? T
J... ‘2 ,L -. . ‘ I 1. “I, r... ‘ .41 . L m 7} ~10 91 3 e13, ‘23 -._'f- t“ a.) V.~' «51-h: 'u '“ ‘ . L z,“ . ’ ._~ L ' .m.‘ ' .v .. . V's. o C

i
i

 




a». H q
74:) if” t:

«”61,
,ﬂ :-

4»

o

f“ *- 1 1. Ci

5'12 .
ml .

§
§ .

, “u
x?
.

2 .L
, _ , A. if

i

q ~r“ hr

‘7
Uw

:wﬁ
. f 2.1

.zwu

1 d
m

’ 1615. i

a "1 1“"
id‘wui»

I" i.

""\ r»
- ¢.-—
Q-y‘ \,4

\
I

\
.n .b

.i.
., r"
_. .r

£135.“

3»

f“?

#eﬁd 1c

01mg to

1':
1’2;

1 am

Life Fun L

913.51

a":

{'1

l

1.

it“? Q I‘

 




_ . . L ' 4/.
66 6 6' 66/ 66 6 66 66:
.Z/— @4935 6/6196” at; 6:6 dc&/.czﬂ”t,

.6666. .. 662.66 62.6,, 666765? 3666666666 .56

_:
LA

6’”? ." ‘ .r’ at
' 4” 9/121 he? 1.:
/; NM
*’D“L§A—~§“’ (Am/I S” S£L «5%,bwm’

I “_ r
I t7 a 3 2 .. c6 .-
1 .. r {I I" .. . ’
[Ll ‘ JD. (ﬁnd? ‘ at"; ’h’mwx L". L

I} 4— a o " .6...“ .
.. .‘ I ( l” , Ix.» k ) ' I f 4.7 w. S j
, .2 . I , g; vau‘wx g
*’31><”L~*.V’t L6.6,..;-.;~»~6.:J~ * K. ’- 0 <2»— ‘~ Ca ‘2»?— M C ’0‘ ﬂ; ‘ f

l g" g” chNéW 3L“

9".)

i ' ‘1 I ’

*.

LET“.- (3“ J" . I
L. {Aim-.6 ,

1......3- * .,

‘dn—ﬂ

W 6( 13.3.6» _

) 671:6CVQA 6’:- (1\~L'”16 L.-.G*L~y’\66.-.-....,_..6:'5( J

" 3.
k

2

 




%mma g/wa mm «ZMééMé/a a/VQ/Z/mm

/%(5~V9// 33? L929; 3475,
j/— g1»: .' fiigi $2 &.4 .461. mm,

gnaw/0t .' ﬂo/a/ $4», z///[/% 6 “71:?“ ﬁé/ism 14‘” 672%
PROPOSED ADVISORY BOARD & PROVISIONAL CONSTITUTION.

l.POLICY: Promotion of Humanitarian Principles in the widest sense - Compas-
sion for all defenceless creatures,and Reverence for Life.

2.AIM OF THE INSTITUTE: To promote Humane Education throughout Africa,form-
ing Groups in Schools and other Institutions,and everywhere where such Educ-
ation will be of benefit to the peOple.

3. The Institute is non-political and non-racial - unity of all peeples is
encouraged,whatever be their creed - in the promotion of humanitarian prin-
ciples.

4. The Institute is a voluntary and non-profit-making organisation.

5. FUNDS: To be derived from Donations and Subscriptions, and fund-raising
assistance from members of the Advisory Board,& other supporters.

6. MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTIQE: Suggested lOO/- minimum for Foundation members -

other subscriptions to be considered in view of the varying currency value
in different countries in Africa,and the probable difficulty in collecting
same. A separate subscription might be decided for students of school
groups. -

FUNDS TO BE BANKED (as at present arranged) in an Account in the name of
the Institute,with the STANDARD BANK LTD.,City Drive,Dar es Salaam,Tang -
operated in the meantime by Mrs Isobel Slater,Director of the Institute.

HON.TREASURER to be appointed. (At present Mr Madan has agreed to act.)

Suggested that ﬁrs Isobel Slater be known as the Director,for the time
being,until the work of the Institute becomes more developed and estab -
lished throughout Africa. Headquarters,for this reason,to be in Dar es -
Salaam. The Director should have powers to act for the Institute in all
matters relating to the work being organised, and in the matter of essent-
ial expenditure. EXpenditure at present being wholly comcerned with the
production,printing,translations,and distribution of essential material,
and postal expenses which are necessarily,considerable..Air Mail being
used almost exclusively. Printed matter is produced in English,French,
Italian,Swahili,and several vernacular languages.This is a big and import—
ant item. French,in particular,is very much used. Portuguese will also have
10.t° be added later.

Segretarial ﬁgsigtanggi At present the Director is undertaking all work,
with part-time help when required for translations. Later,when funds are
available,a.Secretary will have to be employed.

_Advi§ory Board: Suggested that the Advisory Board consists of Foundation
Members, in other words,those keen supporters who have helped to make the
work of the Institute known overseas. Other suitable persons to be added

to the Board,as,and when,useful.

Duties of Rembers of the Board:.Apart from the usual support given it
would be of tremendous assistance if Members could write-up suitable,
items of literature - educational and propaganda. P.T.O.

 




("q‘

'13..

.gdvisory Board Cent.

‘42.

Illustrationstoo, Would be very useful, and of course, the interesting of
nonmembers and supporters overseas to help with funds. ,

,Chief A.S.Fundikira,(Minister fer Justice,Tanganyika.) would be agreeable-
to act as Chairman to the Board ~ in this way,the Director and Chairman
c0uld.have meetings,as,and when required,to discuss the business of the
Institute. Membens of the Board could appoint the Chairman or Director

as proxy in any item of business they would likebrought up.

Suggested that such.meetings could be held quarterly or half-yearly,dep-
ending on the matters requiring discussion.

Suggested that Patrons and Sponsors be appointed - these should be.Humanit.
arians of note. *

N.B. The foregoing is suggested for the consideration of Members,and
any assistance in drafting and finalising a proVisional constit-
ution on the above lines,would be most welcome, and would relieve
the Director,who is fully occupied in organising and establishing
the work of the Institute.

 

PATRONS & SPONSORS: Agreed to date:
Dr Albert Schweitzer,Lamberene, Gabon, Equitorial Afrique,W.
Sir Abubakar TefanaiBelewa,(Prime Minister of Nigeria), Lagos.

.ADVISORY BOARD MEMBEB§:.Agreed to date:
a Mrs C.Stevens, Animal Welfare Institute,New York,U.S.A.
x .Mrs Joyce Lambert, 52,Killdeer Crescent,Toronto,l7,Ontario,Canada
'X Miss M.Williamson,51,de la Vigne Rd., Westmount,Montreal,6,P.Q.
x Miss F.Perry, Ann's Cottage,Little Baddow,Chelmsford,Essex,Eng.
Mrs Garlake, Box 47, Highlands,Salisbury,S.Rhodesia. ‘

Mrs L.Flaks, 1005 Willsborpugh Mansions,Seaview St.,Durban,Natal,
S.A.
Chief A.S.Fundikira, Office of the Minister for Justice,Dar es -
' Salaam,Tanganyika.

Those marked}<Should be Foundation Members without further subscription
in View of the spkendid donations already given to the Institute.

N.B. It is suggested that the above Advisory Board members make contact
with each other,and exchange views and ideas, to further the progress
of the Institute.

It will be noted that,so far, there is only one man on
the Board! a few more would be welcome.

 

Dear Friends and COlleagues,

. To save writing separate letters in addition to
the foregoing, I would be deeply grateful if the above members would reply
to this communication,expressing their views on same,and submitting any sug—
gestions which would be of assistance. Thank you very much.

Sincerely,
18th April,l962.

 




    
    

w“t’ C;%€;vuzmwz (égzgaathnr ajgahéa&t2 fa/ﬂc5%;%2@¢

      
   
   
 

(”f/5f” ﬂﬁﬁa 2473,

Z1- 9%.. ,. (Jr/J2; .99” ea .44 amm/
ﬂnfwwa/ (59/

Mrs C.Stevens, 30th April 1962.

     

Animal Welfare Institute,
22 “est l7thxst.,
New York 3,N.Y.

 
     
  

 
 

Dear Mrs Stevens,
Thank you very much for your letter,dated 19th April. I
would have replied earlier,but have been,and still am, pretty hectic with
correspondence all over the place. I only wish the African mentality would
take things more methodically,and gbwdtheir replies in better time! I knew
of course,that after making contact,the following procedure would be slow!
However, to get ourselves known is something,and the first big step. I'm
realising that we have not nearly enough literature,etc., to follow up the
initial distribution, but I have' nt found a solution to that small problem
yet! by the time I get something written up, printed, and probably translat'.
the time flies, anda always mail coming in, which needs attention. Still, the
whole work is exciting and full of interest. Another thing which does slow
up the production of printed materia1,is the fact,that it is all fairly
costly, and funds are not very plentiful. When I get a few spare minutes
I want to try and get our Treasurer down to making a statement,showing the
expenditure for the first six months - this is practically all for,print—
ing,translations,illustrations and mailing - quite considerable. I'm still
h0ping to get a decent typewriter that will take 6 or 7 COpies,and that
would be a help. But I'm not worrying - I'm sure something will come along
to help our finances. You will have had my rough ideas for setting
up a simple kind of constitution - I'll be looking forward to your comm-
ents. About having an association with your AWI? I do think it is highl
important for something of this nature,in fact, I wish that the permanent
HQ of Heia could be with your organisation, for the simple reason that a
permanent HQ in Africa would present some difficulties in the days to
come - things are not too good in Tanganyika — there is a sad sate of ant
British feeling,and with the departure of so many Europeans, the economic
position of"private people" like my husband and myself,is not going to
improve much,which means that the time may come when we shall have to ser
iously consider a move! in which case,HEIA will always go along with me,
but a permanent HQ would be essential for the status of the organisation.
However,it's all right for the moment, but honestly,with all the contra—
dictions taking place, ,a.nd the odd things happening, it is only wise to
look ahead. The olice have now been Africanised' the Commissioner asked
to quit. The Broadcasting Co., is already Africanised, and the Press under
strict control - not very quieting. The poor old Britisher,who did so
much for the country,is now the 'foreigner". and the most disliked. I sup
pose it is the question of inferiority complex, but so stupid. I said to
the P. M. recently,"you can hardly expect a. new country to have the same
standards of efficiency,as that of countries which have been civilised
for centuries!" he agreed, but the feeling of inferiority is there. A
very great pity. So all in all, after the first flush of Independence,

 
 
    
       
 
     
 

  
 
       
   
   
 
      
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
   
 




   
      
        
      
        
      
   
   
   
   
       
       
      
   
     
       
        
  
  
    
   
  
  
    
  
 
 
      

  

.—-which came years too soon,anyway,.things are not working quite out t9 all
the promises made. My husband and I,are fortunately among the ‘favoured’a_
but how long will it last? That them, is the position of things in most’of
Africa today, and the tremendous reason why,Humane Education is so essent~
ial, and it must be“cloaked“in a very,very diplomatic disguise! Approach
means everything. If HEIA had a Headquarters (even in name only) in the
USA (which is everything thatéwonderful,in Africal) the problem of the fut-
ure would be solved,and my mind at rest. I'll always carry on the actual
work, wherever I might eventually be. I know Africa so well - the peOple
and conditions,that I don't need to live on the spot. But we must have a
permanent HQ. Perhaps you,in your wisdom,can think of a good solution -
it would probably be advantageous to your own organisation,to have so vital
an African one,under your wing. Meantime,the work goes on.

I don't know what Joyce Lambert will think of the idea of loaning the
film back to Mr Cuyler? She is doing so well with it in Canada,and bringing
in,I hOpe,funds. However, I‘ll leave it to her judgementa I should think the
Zoological peOple could manage to obtain another COpy for themselves - I
know the Director of National Parks here,is anxious to sell more COpies as
the small profit on the sale of copies help their funds,and they need more
funds, pretty badly. The Canadian Broadcasting peOple have made a lot of
stock~shots of the film,at so much per foot, and they were del' hted to hav~
the the film as apparently they had been disappointed over the Serengeti
shall not die,film. Joyce thinks she'll be able to send a nice little bit
for the funds,later. No, I have never heard anything from Judge Russell
Train. The World Wild Life fund has raised quite a lot of money - I'm won-
dering whether it will be disbursed in the right places? I had been toying
with the idea of approaching the @S() fpr a donation for my special Wild
.....Li..f.e.."Sangiuaxty.....i.n...Da,r....33...Sal,31am,....ggggia.msu..2J.il.1..iamgon...ngi;...£.aa.l....a.bl.e....to .............

provide the full amount required. Look - I've over-run the space! I'd
better carry on with this paper. The Wild Life Sanctuary plans , '
slow, but active. I've got the ground and the blessing of City Co n.’
and Ministers,tbut, such are th odd things which can happen her , ve
I was invited ﬁﬁ a discussion 1 the hams ﬁarden's office,recent

in‘
there found, gppgnimal traders,a7nd one animal tamermlorig with an: §c
head of somethi g>or anqt er, ail tafkiﬁg about starting a ZOO n 2
Dar es Salaamhz ﬁnd tha LIaine Wérden'innocently"§askedgme whethef t *

 

  
   
  

 

 

Tn nnen out here—.5

my SanctuaryDaﬁdrthe Zdo mfnhtgnot clash: ﬁt wbuld take a whole ' “v to
tell you whcn.ir§nspireﬂ a. er%that - but needlessgto say, the dis ion

looksl I x nﬂ straight aﬁiyéghd ackled tﬁe Ministeés concerned,including
Chief Fundikﬁ ,Eand di ' ' t the usmal tactics were being employed,

m
0
o
a
H
w
F!
C’-
s“

ended in so Eeﬁy plain siﬁakﬁng Erom 'yourés truly' ,aind a few embarrassed

 

I'm adamant ﬁhﬁtz
where near a: f: v—q
tamer fellow"<i w 0 *~ . , g .

such audacitii.m F: To crown evgrything,§he local press rang me
up about a Ranger-'1 m' sage 1ﬁey had from ngnyga about soéme otheraparty wanting
to start a ZoogJ’th making three projedts 3con§3err§1ing wild life in Dar'. I
found out thatmt%%'%hird party( were condernhd with the 'second party' in a
double-dealinggwgyl so I rang the Minister fpr Wild Life and told him in no
uncertain teer,What I thoughtofthe whole maﬁter ~§he,of course,professed ig-
norance of trading,taming of animals,or Zoosgcoming into it: What is one to
think - always this miserable form of contradictions,etc. Anyway,l'm g01ng

ahead with the Sanctuary,where the prphan animals will find peace & safety.

0

r es Sal aam‘i’mto; thﬁEWT‘ifmfﬁéanma:
mes fnom ﬁaudi Araﬁiall I never heard of5

E thElf‘e W133]- b§e rib 260,031" wild life trading any-
D

C

i.e. backin"<1 gojedganﬂ l: te§1ing td this ogthei’ loét of beastly traders
as well'. b ac allﬁ- E '" Fugieiikira; togok my side: and said right ‘OUt,Wge
would go on gi’t‘homyg m g g 3 pl§ns,and wréiteé and tefll the Game "garden 30;,
,>< a
T:
31

NOIIV

.4

 

 

NO
VXIANVD
‘WVV1VSS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




%¢ﬁﬂ gé/ aim? Mﬁ/Mté’ 5/Wéw
, ‘. _ . ' ﬁfe“? 9// w 7 gaﬁgw 24/73,
.eZ/- @122 eff/525 V ' , _ , H - ' @a 54-dan/mam,

Jaw/a; ﬁ/é/ J’Zm. ﬂﬁéf) T V I - " " ' N “5 d’égaﬁayé’éa 6M
3. '

The poor little baby elephants did'nt have mothers - they had been killed:
These are the sort of animals I want to give Sanctuary to — the orphans &
abandoned young animals. Attached 8 press cutting - awful rubbish, so

'inaccurately reported, but the headline is amusing: I hope Miss William-

son comes on a visit to me soon, then I will discuss the whole project with
her,and she can make a decision.

Abdallah Fundikira has now gone off to Mecca on the Pilgrﬂmage. My
husband and I happened to be at the airport seeing off some"departing fri-
ends",and there was the whole Muslim entourage boarding the plane. I man-
aged a few words with Chief Fundikira, (the Minister for Wild Life was also
on the Pilgrdmage) and said I must see him as soon as he returns. You‘ ve
no idea how éard it is to tie these people down - they Seem to spend life
flying here, there and everywhere. that seems to be the general idea of dev-
eloping the country. It's not q uite my idea.

It' s splendid to have Dr Schweitzer and AlhaJl Sir Abubakar Tafewa
Belewa as Patrons, (or Sponsors) the latter3s§1d Patron, the former,Sponsor.
I'm trying to think of others, but frankly theremane so few REAL Humanitar—
ians in Africa, that it' s not easy to find any.f I d like to get the Sultan

of Z'anzibar to support us, but I‘ m not sure yet, whether his status algows
for being associated with generaLn organiSations. ‘ I do hope Ambassador
Stevenson plays up favourably — that would be fine.. When all is settled,
I'll get new letter headings done.

Yes, indeed, I think you describe correstly,Dr Lillie. He is a
very fine person, but I' ve a felt too, that a. little soft pedal was
often required. However strong we geel about a subject, it is necessary to

respect the other viewpoint,without in any degree changing our own views.
I'm all for tolerance,and gentle persuasion: Creating an atsmOphere of an
agonism does‘nt help any Cause,and the label of "crank" can do irreparabl,

damage.
I have added a piece to a number of letters going out just now,

encouraging the interest of womens' organisations in various countries -
when,and if,I get suitable response I will let you know,for Mr Waters.

 




You are very sweet to call me a saint' my dear, I' m far from saintly — Just ,3
imbued with tenacity to get a job done — someth1ng I feel must be done. But~
this wretched .eye. trouble is indeed a nu1sance,and could be1 most depressing
if I let 1t. I just don't see what can be done about it; for months yet. I' ll
definitely go to Lo"ndon when the time comes. By the way, I' m heping to be
"”able to go to Aden in July to meet my b1other coming from the East, and I
plan to take the chance and personally visit Addis Ababa and Semalia on the
_way, to arouSe some interest for the Institute - that is,always depending
_3 on whether the eye does' nt get worse too rapidly - of course, if it means
“-going  around like a bat, I' d better stay where I am. -- >~ .« ._ 1

Looking forward to heaning from you again soon.

Sincerely, 3931133 €1.11! (10.111

3 wﬂwﬂﬂﬂlw

P.S. Had a queer letter from C.Merowit the other day,talking about schemes
for Tanganyika, and the re-organisation of his Society,or whatever he
ca.lls it. Apparently,he has' .nt been receiving much co-Operation in his
schemes from the Tanganyika Govt. I' m not really surprised. I' m afraid
I can 't help him either.3

11/

+759: 1‘
M, 211% ilSle/ucjci @U3CE.-. .1111 11.74 (1.1.

(£3.11 .1 Luna/1961 [14161446141

"fQQJZ W 3313/0“ 1'ka f? 31,113,. 3.8-1711”.
x€3&/€/,3;\0 €Mﬂ

“ii/HAS (V3

 




 

 

v . ‘ I
No .zo.o,'0nezoo, one Wildlife sanctuary, two Zoos—Which
IS 1., gomg to be for Dar es Salaam? The situation at? ,
tlie moment islgfrfifused with two different groups making ‘
p ans or a ‘wi i e sanctuary. and a zoo—nextd' rt
another. " “0'0 9‘ one
For the past three years Mrs. i a __
Isobel Slater, director of the
Humane (Education Institute of
Africa, “has .. been planning a
Wlldllfe sanctuary for Dar es
Salaam and: has at last found
a ﬁfteen acre site, just beyond
Kinondoni. Financial backing
has been, off red from Unit!

 

nu

But another group, including
Mr. Cam-(Hartley, has hadthe
same idea ”and they, haVe eX¢
amined a two hundred acre site
adjoining Mrs.~ Slater’s.

Mrs. Slater, ' Who strongly
objects to the use of the word
‘200’ because “it suggests ani-
mals cooped, up in cages,” said
she had discussions last Satur-
day with the other group and
had said she ‘ be prepared ,
to make it a joint effort if they
would comfly “with certain ‘cons ‘

ditions. ( m4 (13, Lamb: ‘>
Better site -"‘

But she would have nothing
' ' 1' :1»
to do with it i 2.283an

200.

She thought hat her site was
the better of the two as the
other included two dairy farms -
and had a small lake which ‘
sometimes went dry. ,

The other group, she said, did
not reveal where their ﬁnance ‘
was coming from and the meet-
ing ended without any decisions
being made.

- Mrs. Slater said that several
Ministers supported her plan.

Mr. Frank Farrar, director of
the Southport Zoological Society,
who was in East Africa recent» ,
1y buying £10,000 worth of am- -
mals, reptilesfand birds for a
number“ of British zoos, has
offered to- run an . exchange
system With East African zoosf
under which he would send
animals. reared in Britain _from
' species foreign to East Atrica.

___,______..._._..__

 

 

 

 




FALL 0F WICKETS: 71 8
BOWLING: Pringle 16-1-
Letcher 9- 3- 13- 0: Saunders 7- 0-
Lindsay 19- 8- 42-1 .

4.
58-1.
29-0:
%

 

Top seeds
tumble in
ASA open

WINALISTS in the Asian
Sports Association Open
table tennis mixed doubles
Championship are No. 2 seeds
Bill Parkinson and Miss M.
Thakur and unseeded Jarnail
Singh and Mrs. Rita Ashworth.
In the semi—ﬁnals, Parkinson
and Miss Thakur beat Jagdish
Shah and Mrs. Connie d‘Souza
21-16. 21—18, while Jarnail and
Mrs. Ashworth shocked top-
seeded Avtar Singh and Mrs.
Bertha Zuzarte 21-9, 22-20.
The ﬁnal is at Nairobi’s
Patel Club on Wednesday, the
same day as the A. K. Sood—Jan
A‘i Hasham under-16 boys‘
singles ﬁnal.

 

’~.’A~r

 

MEGHJI

FWHE preliminary rounds of
the Kenya junior lawn
tennis championships have
seen only one major upset in

the tourney.
Fourth-seeded J. Grafton
. G. Meghji




3.01 ._._.__m nzCMF
Mr>c014mw

nImZ_ cnI_Z..>.=
ICC <<> _A=A>._.=._

 

Hum—ﬁn 34 =5 ”.mhvhiws H>ZG>ZMHN>

 




WEWE UNAWEZA

KUZUIH

UWINDAJI HUU
WA KIKATILI

 

Issued by the R.S.P.C.A., TANGANYIKA

 




 

 

PROMOTION OF HUMAN E EDUCATION

H.E.|.A.

 

HUMANE EDUCATION ~.
INSTITUI'E
op, AFRICA

 

 

‘H.E.I.A.’

—and What it means

 

 

 




 

“HEIA, and what it means”

 

HEIA stands for, “HUMANE EDUCATION INSTI-
TUTE OF AFRICA”. .

HEIA is a voluntary and non-proﬁt making organis-
ation established to promote humane education.

The Headquarters of HEIA, at present, is situated at
Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika, and is under the direction of
Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E., who has been promoting humane
education, which includes animal welfare, for over 20 years
in Africa.

The policy of HEIA is to promote humanitarian princ-
iples in the widest sense. HEIA believes in, “Reverence for
life—all life, and Compassion for all Defenceless creatures.”

By its policy HEIA teaches humanity to defencless
creatures—by this is meant that all followers of HEIA’S
teaching creates a moral sense of responsibility and under-
standing of the needs of the humbler creation, the animals.
Through this feeling of humanity, Man, not only learns the
value of kindness to defenceless creatures, but also learns
to appreciate the needs of his fellow-men—all through
kindness and undestanding. A human-being, handicapped
by illness or disesae, unﬁt to work, can too, be classed
amongst defenceless ones—so too, can the aged and inﬁrm,
and little children. The man who can spare time to consider
the needs of the animals, will ﬁnd time and sympathy to
care for defenceless human-beings also. Such men can be
the builders of great nations.

HEIA believes in promoting the care and protection of
animals, whether wild or domesticated, because apart from
Man’s moral duty to protect animals, animals contribute
much wealth to a country. Therefore it is wise for a man, if
he owns domestic animals, to give every care and attention
to their needs—grazing, water and shelter. Also, when
animals are sick, they should not be neglected, but given
the essential veterinary treatment they require.

A man’s wealth may lie in his animals, and with due
regard to their needs an owner can raise his whole stand-
ards of living——able to give his home and family all that is
required to ensure a good and prosperous future. The wise

man knows this, and takes good care of the welfare of his
animals.




Let it be remembered that Man is just as dependent
on ltlhe humbler creatures of Creation, as they are
on 1m.

There are however, many unfortunate people living in
most countries, who through ignorance, ill-treat and
neglect the animals, but that is not really the fault of those
people—they do not know any better. Such unfortunate
people often neglect and ill-treat children as well, and this
is very serious.

Humane Education can help to remove such ignorance,
and replace it with useful knowledge which can beneﬁt the
people concerned, and through them their country. Ignor-
ance, poverty and disease—not any part of the “rights of
man”——must be eradicated completely, if a country and its
people would enjoy the natural beneﬁts which should be
their true and undisputed right.

Many African countries are largely pastoral, therefore
the people belonging to such countries, have a great, and
rich background—the land. To get the best out of the land,
the people must understand the value of good cultivation,
and the even greater value, of ﬁne herds of strong and well-
cared for livestock. All this important teaching can be
found through lessons learned from HEIA.

Many countries in Africa too, have a rich, natural heri-
tage of Wild Life. These animals also, contribute enorm-
ously to the wealth of the country, and should have every
protection given to them by the people. The wild life of
Africa can almost be said to be, “A World Possession”. If
the people of the countries possessing such a wealth and
beauty, of Wild Life takelittle interest in the protection
and preservation of the animals, these people are failing in
a humane as well as a moral duty.

ALL POACHIN G AND OTHER ILLEGAL HUNTING
SHOULD BE ERADICATED WITH UTMOST DETER-
MINATION, AND LEGITIMATE HUNTING BE COM—
PLETELY CON TROLLED—ESPECIALLY HUNTING
FOR FOOD. ‘

The Wild Life of Africa if allowed by the people of the
country concerned, to suffer destruction to the point of
extinction, would be a serious loss to the world, and there-
fore a tragedy. The Wild Animals can never be replaced.

 




HEIA believes that through the care and protection of
animals—the humble, speechless, but sentient creatures——
Man unconsciously fosters within himself, that humane
feeling of responsibility towards all humanity. He there-
fore becomes fully awakened to the needs of his fellow-men,
and is able to express his moral sense of responsibility
through intelligent application of sympathetic understand-
ing of the need for tolerance, consideration and justice.

THE WORTH OF MAN IS UNDENIABLY PROVED
BY HIS ATTITUDE TOWARDS ALL DEFENCELESS
CREATURES.

 

HEIA extends a warm invitation to all those who would
participate in the promotion of HUMANITARIAN princ-
iples, to become associated with its activities—activities
designed to better conditions of human understanding.

Students and others concerned for the progressive,
prosperous and contented development of a country, are
earnestly desired to give their co-operation in the pro-
motion of humane teaching.

GROUPS OF HEIA CAN BE FORMED IN ALL
COUNTRIES.

HEIA is non-political, non-racial, and believes in the
unity of all peoples Whatever be their creed, in the pro-
motion of humanitarian principles—there being no dividing
line in the pattern of the Great Creator’s plan—ALL have
the same chance to enrich the world with the priceless gift
of Compassion, Understanding, and Reverence for Life.

NB. The generic term ‘Man’ has been used in the
foregoing, but ‘Woman’ too, is no less responsible
for the fulﬁlment of the moral duty towards
those in need—perhaps, even more so, in some
respects, and for the promotion of humanitarian-
ism.

Please write to HEIA for further particulars, and
address to:—

The Director,
Humane Education Institute of Africa,
P.O. Box 2473, Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika.

(For telegraphic communications, the word “HEIA”,
may be used, followed by the Post Box number, and Dar
es Salaam). .

T.S.——2151

 




-

Jpn/349;;

«

W
m...»
w.
«w
L
w

(WWJILS g/Q”

‘(mw
” 1
.. . -\

 




 




 

 




A Humane Education Series

“Salimu shows the Way"

 

a short story

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ISOBEL SLATER

HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE
OF AFRICA.

 




 

 

“SALIMU SHOWS THE WAY”

“J ambo, Salimu! What are you doing—building a new village?”
So called out Shabani in a joking way as he passed Salimu’s shamba
on the way to the village for a gossip with his friends.

Salimu was certainly very busy surrounded by all kinds of
materials, and assisted by his children; he seemed to be making a
strong-looking boma with a covered shelter at one end. At Shabani’s
greeting, he scarcely turned to answer, but called over his shoulder,
“Yes, I am busy as you can see”, and went on working.

Shabani stood for a few minutes watching, and ,tried to make
some conversation, but Salimu took no notice—he was too busy on
his job. After a little while, Shabani started to move away, saying,
“Oh, well, if you’re too busy to speak to a friend, you needn’t!” and
with that, he went off towards the village laughing to himself of the
big work Salimu seemed to be doing.

Shabani was a lazy fellow, and although he had quite a big
shamba of his own and a number of livestock, he never did any work
if he could help it. He left the shamba work to his wife and children;
he liked to spend his time sitting around in the village gossiping with
other lazy fellows.

When Shabani arrived at the village he at once joined a number
of his lazy friends, and burst out, laughing, with the news of the big
job that Salimu was doing. “What do you think he is making all this
work for?” and he went on to explain about What he, saw Salimu
doing. “He would not stop to speak to me”, complained Shabani. The
other villagers were interested—they always liked the local gossip,
but were quite amused at the thought of anybody working so hard
on such a hot day. So they all sat under the shade of the big mango
tree, laughing and talking about Salimu and his kazi (work).

“You know Salimu has been acting in a funny way ever since he
returned from his safari to the Capital a week. ago”, said one of the
men. “He has been making a fuss about his animals, fetching Water
for them to drink every day, just think of that!” there was loud
laughter at this remark. "Yes,” said another man, “and I heard that
he ties great long pieces of rope to his goats, and leaves them under
trees to graze until the children come home from school to herd them”.

“What nonsense is this”, called out several people. Well, I think
we should all go along and ﬁnd out all about it,” suggested Shabani,
“if we all go, he will have to take some notice of us”.

 




 

“Oh, don’t bother”, said J uma, one of the laziest men present. “It’s
too hot”. “Juma is right”, said another, “let’s have a drink instead.”
“Good idea”, agreed most of the others. Shabani however, for some
reason fell suddenly quiet, as if something had just occurred to him.
He turned to Juma, and said seriously, “By the way, where are your
goats just now?” knowing that ‘Juma had many goats. J uma looked
at Shabani in astonishment. “Goats!” he exclaimed, “where do you
think they would be?” “Tied up against your house, I suppose”,
replied Shabani. “Right!” said Juma with a shout of laughter, “where
else would they be?” Shabani was silent for a few moments, then said,
“I just wondered if they would be out grazing, its getting on for noon”.
“Grazing!” laughed Juma, “are you being funny?” “No,” said Shabani,
“I’m not”. “Well, don’t talk stupid”, replied Juma, “you know my
totos are sick, and my wife gone to market, so who would take the
goats out to graze?” Eeverybody looked at Shabani who seemed a bit
uncomfortable, the thought having crossed his mind that J uma might
well be taking the goats out himself, instead of lazily sitting under
the tree gossiping. The men all laughed, and one said, “are you getting
a little funny like Salimu?” Another muttered, “Water for animals!
grazing for goats! what next!”

Shabani didn’t join in the laughter any more, but continued to
look thoughtful; after a little while, he said, “I’m going home, see you
tomorrow”. He then started to move away. J uma called after him,
“You might take my goats to graze when you are passing my house”.
This brought forth renewed shouts of laughter. Shabani took no
notice and continued on his way. As he approached Salimu’s shamba,
he saw that the work was still going on, and a lot of progress had been
made during the time he had spent in the village.

Shabani walked very slowly past the shamba, and when nearly
past, stopped, then took a few steps back and in a hesitating voice said,
“Can I help you, Salimu?” Salimu took no notice, but went on work-

ing quickly. Shabani went a little nearer, and again said. “Can I help
you, Salimu?”

This time, Salimu glaced quickly in Shabani’s direction, and said,
“Thanks for the offer, but I’m nearly ﬁnished for today,” and went
on with his work.

Shabani, greatly wondering what it was all about, stood watching
for a few minutes, then turned slowly and went on his way. As he
came near to his own house, he almost ran, calling out urgently, to
his Wife, “Where are the goats, and the donkey?” His wife came 011t
from the house, and looking puzzled at the strange question, replied,
“Out with the children”. Shabani looked towards the track which




led to the grazing place and saw the animals with the children in the
distance; he turned away abruptly, and went along the track. His
wife still had a surprised look on her face, as if she couldn’t under-
stand all the sudden interest in the animals.

Next day, Shabani could be seen thoughtfully standing near
Salimu’s shamba and watching intently, the work still going on. Many
of the other shamba owners also, could be seen walking slowly past
Salimu’s place; none of them tried to speak to Salimu because he was
working so hard, and didn’t encourage interruption in his work. The
people were all very intrigued by this time, and thought that Salimu
had come in for a lot of money, or something else they didn’t know
about. Everybody knew of course, that Salimu owned a number of
cattle, goats and donkeys, and that he was a thrifty man, but they
had never thought him to be particularly concerned about the care
of the animals. Now, however, the people were curious, seeing the
ﬁne boma whiCh must cost a lot of money to build.

In due course, the boma was ﬁnished, and very strong and ﬁne it
looked with the big covered shelter at one end. Everybody kept
asking why Salimu had made it, and of what good it would be. All
Salimu would say, “If a person kept animals, it was a duty to look
after them properly, and protect them”. He advised everybody to
do the same. There was some amusement caused by this advice, for
in those parts of Africa, nobody bothered much about the animals.
The poor creatures were always starved and neglected. Naturally,
Salimu and his boma caused a lot of talk and quite a lot of amusement,
but there the matter ended. However, the amusement didn’t last long.

A week after the boma was ﬁnished, on a ﬁne morning, there was
heard a tremendous commotion throughout the whole district. People
were rushing around in a most agitated manner, all bearing terrible
news! In the night a large number of lions had visited the area, and
nearly every owner had lost several, or all, of his livestock. Juma
had lost all his goats except one, and his donkey too. Loud were his
lamentations. All the people were making for the village to gather
around the J umbe’s ofﬁce with their tale of woe. What was to be done
about it? Many of the people who had lost animals were very poor;
they had depended on their few animals for money to live—now, they
had nothing.

When the noise around the Jumbe’s ofﬁce was at its height,
Shabani quietly joined the crowd, soon to be followed by Salimu. The
Jumbe caught sight of them and said, “I suppose you have come to
complain also?” Shabani shook his head saying, “No, my donkey and
goats are safe”. “Mine are safe, too,” said Salimu. Everybody stopped

 




 

talking'and looked at the two men who had lost nothing. Salimu
very quietly said to the Jumbe, “I had all my animals in my new
boma, so they were safe, but I’m very sorry for the rest of my neigh-
bours although they laughed at me for making a boma.”

The Jumbe looked intently at Salimu and said, “Yes, you seem
to be a very wise man”. Then he looked at Shabani, “What about you?
haven’t you lost some animals?” “No,” replied Shabani. “I too, laugh-
ed at Salimu and his boma, but when I went home after watching him
working so hard at the building of it, I made up my mind to keep all

my animals inside the house at night until, I, too. could build some
kind of shelter to keep them safe”.

On hearing from these two men how their animals had been
saved, there was an excited outburst of questions as to why Salimu
had thought to have the idea of building a boma for the safety of his
animals, even the Jumbe was eager to know about this. Salimu then
told the people of how, on his last safari to the Capital. he had met
with a teacher from a great place of learning, and was told wonderful
news on how animals should be well-taken care of. He learned that it
was a duty of owners of animals to look after, and protect them, and
of how animals were much more valuable to the owners if they were
strong and healthy. He had learned too, that it was only stupid and
ignorant people who would cause suffering to a defenceless animal,
and also, that the best kind of people in any country were those who
showed kindness and consideration to all living creatures. Salimu
went on to tell the people that he had been so impressed with all this

, SO that they would all understand how easy it was to
become good and wise masters.

Many of the people loudly exclaimed th
build bomas, “so what can we do?” they cried. “Don’t worry”, said
Salimu, “we’ll think of a plan”, and turning to the Jumbe, he said,
“will you spare some time to discuss this mattter with me, I think I
have a plan”. The Jumbe agreed to meet Salimu the following day
to hear the plan, and the plan was this, that all the people who were
too poor to build bomas themselves, should join together and make
one very large boma which would hold all their animals—these p00rer
people did not have many animals—each person helping to provide

at they were too poor to

 

 

 

 




 

 

some material and doing a part of the building work. It all seemed
a wonderful idea to everybody, and soon the district resounded with
the noise of hammering. T‘he Jumbe was so enthusiastic that he
started building a boma for his own livestock of which he had many.

As time went on, it became apparent that this particular village
was becoming very advanced, and the people prosperous. The village
had been named Lungana, but many people, very happy under the
new conditions, called a meeting and the spokesman said, “Many of
us feel that our village has become important, and prosperous, so we
should ask that the name be changed to “Prosperity”.” All those
present applauded loudly, and there were cries of, “yes, yes!” In
due course, application was made to the ofﬁcial ofﬁce, and the applic-

ation was granted.

All during this time, the people from other Vilages, many of them
a long way from Prosperity, used to come for help and advice, so that
they too, could beneﬁt from the work of the Prosperity people.

And, what about Salimu and Shabani all this time? Well, they
had prospered beyond all other people; they had worked so hard
during the years following the building of Salimu’s boma, that now,
they were men of property and good standing. Salimu had a large
farm of many acres around his original boma, and grew many crops,
and had plenty of ﬁne grazing land for his animals. He had some 20
cows, and the milk was sold in the town about 10 miles away. He had
other bomas now, and plenty of water on the farm. And perhaps the
best of all, he had a ﬁne stone built house, with light and water inside.

. = 3‘ E -. '
~ 3) )3 ‘tIyd'
Prosperity Village—result of united effort

 

 




His children were well-dressed, and all went to school—his eldest
son was away in a Secondary School, and was to go overseas later to
study to become a doctor, and one of Salimu’s proudest possessions
was a motor-car! Shabani, too, had prospered well. Gone, all the lazy
days of gossiping under the old mango tree! He too, had a prosperous
farm, and a good house to live in. Shabani never forgot the lesson
he had learned from Salimu building the boma, and he regarded
Salimu as his very best friend, and Salimu thought the same about
Shabani

Probably one of the best things about the whole district, and the
Village itself, was the development evident everywhere. Well cultiv—
ated shambas with good irrigation, and healthy livestock—in the
Village every person had a good house with well-tended gardens, plots
were laid out nicely with ﬂowers and trees—the whole place looking
most attractive. But perhaps one of the most striking things of all,
was the fact, that not one old mud hut was to be seen anywhere, even
the poorest person had a nice house to live in.

So Prosperity ﬂourished, and all the inhabitants lived happily
together—every person a good neighbour to the other, a real example
of what hard work and consideration for others, including the animals
too, can do to combat ignorance and promote humane understanding.

THE END

 

Printed by Tanga’rEma Standard Ltd.

 




onieen eELPARE IMSTITUTB
22 East l7ﬁh Street
New York 3,N.Y.

April 19, 1962

Mrs. Isobel Slater
Box 2473
Dar es Saleem, Tanganyila

Dear Mrs. Slater,

I agree with you that it is moot vital to get peeple's lntereei in Africa
and that their financial contributions should be a secondary consideretion.
Your thought of etemoe sounds like a good one.

Me. Gordon Cuyler of the Zoo called me last week and I told him you hadn't
heard from their group. I said I would go to a tea the zoo is giving with a
tour on April 24th and will try to get a bit further with than. Mr. Cuyler
Wanied to get another copy of the National Parks film, for theirs is on loan
in Hawaii, and Fairfield Osborn was to talk before some doctors and wanted to
Show it. I tolé him Joyce Lamberﬁ's address, and he was going to telephone
her to oee if they could get it back for this showing. 80 you can see how
highly thought of the film is.

Did you ever hear anything from Judge Russell Train? There was quite a
write~up in the New Yorker about the World Wild Life fund which you doubtless
know about.

How delightful to have baby elephants following you! What did their mothers
think?

I'm so delighted that Dr. Schneitzer is to be a sponsor or patron of HEIA.
This will be a great halo. I do think Sponsor is better than patron as 3
title.

We'll be glad to do whatever you suggest with respect to association or
affiliation of HEIA with the AWI. I know it will make it easier for tax
purposes for American contributors if ﬁhey donate to the AW: (which is tax~
deductiblg§ to give to the HElA. and we will be honored by the affiliation.

Concexning Dr. killie, he isn't connected with the U.N., but he was the one

who got the humane resolution passed at the Law of the Sea Conference, and /
t

that is probably why the Australian thinks of him. I'm sending the Inform» “ile.:'r

alien Report which tells about this. Dr. Lillie is a delightful person and ‘“
a true humanitarian. He is brilliant and well informed and fearless. (You
may have seen hie film of the Canadian traplinee or the Canadian sealing.)

In adéitlon to all these remarkable qualities9 I most, in fairness, add that
he sometimes goes off the deep end, 3o that one cannot always agree that his
presentation or interpretation‘dge doing the best service to the cause.
Despite this, I ihink he is one of the most effective humane workers I've ever
met, and if only he could be ”edited” a little his accomplishments would
double. Hie film.en laboratory animals and his book about whaling had so
much that was firstvrete but contained, ales, some that so urgently needed
cutting that the strength of the whole was destroyed.

When you find’any African women‘s organizations interested in HEIA, or simply
some African women so interested, do let go know, and I will get in touch with
Herbert Waters agein.

I‘m sending the letter to Adlai Stevenson. I’m sorry about the delay but have
been so swamped here I can't keep up.

”£175.! 3.»;3jfj3 .g‘ifi'i §.?:'§§.:(;.fs:‘.joi; hull *5»: kill, .:;'\3-,.;:;v' 7’ a) g ,5
You really are e saint aS‘w 11 as tremendously renefke

91% tea-we .. .

 




vgmuch with the handicaps yau are Iabbring under}. I Ebpe all goes well frem now on.

{

5 L ﬁimaaraéyg

. ﬂ. Vaur gﬁgﬁ ngwg abwut t%@‘?rimﬁ ﬂiniﬁter af Wigaria jmat arrﬁvaﬁwﬂwnm
gratulatianai

 




%maﬁa gﬂm {2'01” $452255? a (/Qy/gé’az

/% (f 1" «W0 92%) %.a 34/3,

QM a; da mm,

L5€Z-£Z%mxcy925

glow/at .' ﬂ/a/ ﬁt”, ”{9} (5," ngﬁfm’éyééw 5%

Mrs C.Stevens’ 28th MQrCh 620

Animal Welfare Institute,
22 East 17th St.,
New York.3. N.Y.

Dear Mrs Stevens,
‘ First of all, thank you so very much for the helpful
cheque. It's awfully nice of you to send so useful an amount - you have
plenty of commitments "nearer home",I'm pretty certain. However,I'm most
grateful,and you can be sure it will help to keep the wheels turning. Soon,
I will try and get time to get out a small statement showing how funds &
expenditure stands to date - but that is one chore which I‘m not oven’fond
of doing - accounts: I‘ll maybe get the Hon.Treasurer to do it,if I can
tie him down:

You will be happy,§'m sure to hear that Dr Schweitzer

has authorised the use of his name as Sponsor,or Patron of the organisation!- ‘
I had hardly dared to hepe that he would agree, but I have had a charming
letter from him - along with his photograph,signed, and I gather he is very
pleased with the work HEIA has undertaken. Now, perhaps,Ambassador Stev-
enson will agree too,since he has such admiration forDr Schweitzer.

I am enclosing a letter to the Ambassador - I'm not sure
how you address Ambassadors in the States, but I've written as I would to
one,here,and hOpe you will be so kind as to complete the address,and send
the letter on to him. If you don‘t like what I have written,please don't
hesitate to return my letter,with any suggestions you like to make.

I have also written to Sir Abubakar T.Belewa,the P.M. of
Nigeria,whom I have heard to be a most humanitarian—minded person, and asked
. him to be a Sponsor,too. Should we have Sponsors,or call them Patrons? I
rather like,Sponsor§ seems to me,to mean much more.

At last,I have run Abdallah Fundikira to earth - after
months! He is Minister for Justice now - but positions change overnight,if
somebody gets a new idea! He is still keen to be chairman of the Institute
Advisory Board,(when set up)and he and I could be proxies for absent mem-
bers,when any meeting would be required for particular discussion - if this
would be alright with the overseas members? Once we get all settled,
new letterheads can be printed with the names of Advisory Board,Sponsors,etc
That brings me back to a point I had in mind some time back,and I think you
had considered it a good idea - that this Institute be associated,or affili-
ated with an American organisation for choice? Would you still consider it
useful to be united in this way with your own organisation? Personally,it
would giave me much pleasure ,and I'm sure the other peOple interested,i.e.
Mrs Lambert,etc., would be pleased also. I feel this organisation needs
something like that,to give it solid status: if you know what I mean?

Chief Fundikira,and,I hepe,another good friend and sup-
porter of mine, here,in Dar,will be Trustees of the Sanctuary Fund,which is
separate from the general funds of the Institute - the Sanctuary Fund will
have a considerable amount of money in it,before the project is com leted.
This other friend is an Indian - Abdulkarim Y.A.Karimjee,C.B.E., an Speaker

 




manage reasonably well with one good hand! I think I am more concerned about
the eye - eyes are so terribly necessary. I expect 1 have been sent these”

small handicaps to slow me up a bit,so Iﬂn aocéptingliti . _‘.

”Willawritefsoon’agein.

P.S. Just I Was finishing this letter,a man,connected with some Water projects
of United Nations,called at the house to inquire something about this district
I had quite a chat with him,and taliking about the Congo animals,etc., he
mentioned-Dr Lilley who might be a useful person to take up the matter at the
~UN. I did‘nt know Dr Lilley was connected with UN. 'What do you think about
this? This UN man who called is an Australian,and may be taking a house

.in this vicinity,so I may see more pf him - I'm always on the look out for

useful contacts! 39 , . '

 




DUO X LION INSTITUTE

O: ‘ [3.1" 1‘521’41“

ﬁUMANE E

94473
PHD 8%“ «Sn—[0431M-

NO- ....... [é .......

Received from M

With Thanks ,

W sash

MmE EDUCATIOI“ INSTITU

0 {ArfﬁoI-VA‘ ..................
‘He S . 3. n .

 




  
     

' a)

“maﬁa faéwdd’é'an jMéZw/e / th
. ”ff “27 My ¢ﬁ%a 24/15:,
:2Q1.£ZQ.; €Z£Zf £EZL¢,ea.aaA§aan/
Zapagyaa ((9%

21st March l962.
“ few lines to let you know,all is well,and things go-
ing ahead,slow,but sure. I have just returned from a really tough saf—
ari in ghastly heat,and appalling roads — most of them washed away dur-
ing the floodsl however,I got through,and reached the huanda—Urundi bor-
ders where I picked up much information. It is,as I thought,a problem
there - fighting is going on among the tribes,and some 300,000 indigenous
people have crossed the borders — thousands into Tanganyika,others to the
Congo and Uganda. In Tanganyika a.camp has been set up for them. now,it
is a matter of time before the Burcpeans start to quit. The Vice-Premie
of Ruanda is very interested in Heia,and has agreed to have the teaching
introduced into the country — this means that I can get into the schools.
I have also ascertained that Swedish troops of the UN have been rounding
up and destroying domestic pets in hatanga,left by EurOpeans on the last
flight. 1his is by no means the best way to help these poor animals,
but it is certainly better than leaving them to starve to death. A mob—
ile veterinary unit,I‘m certain is the answer, and for nuanda~Urundi,too.
I wonder whether the new ISPA will do anything about this? neantime, if
the UN peeple will only keep the plight of abandoned animals in mind, it
will be a help. I also made some plans as regards the species of
young wild life, especially abandoned or orphan animals,for the wild life,
sanctuary project - which is going on now quite rapidly since my friend
and supporter in Canada has guaranteed financial backing. This will,I
hepe turn out to be a wonderful project for saving some species of wild
life. I was enchanted on safari,to have two baby elephants trotting
along behind me, just like little doggies. The National Parks peOple
are delighted to know how the film has been appreciated in N.Y., but that
brings me to the point of the recent mission from the N.Y.Zoological Soc -
I have'nt seen a sign of them - they never contacted me, but I know they
have been in the country - they were out gith the Hational Parks director.
I have'nt been able to get hold of Chief i'undikira at all, so don't know
whether he had seen these peeple during my absence. It is almost hOpeless
to get hold of any of these hinisters - they are hardly ever in Dar,and y
when they are, so busy! I'll now try and get contact by writing him a '
note. I have heard from Joyce Lambert,and so glad to know she has the,
film now. I expect I'll be hearing more soon. She wants me to write to
several peOple to get their interest,and cash - including a Er Saunders,
whom I once met in Canada — Er Stratton,and his sister,etc. I have such
a pile of correspondence to get throughépiled up during my short absencel}
then I'll see about these other letters, and I will write to Ambassador
Stevenson,too. I have had a charming letter from Dr Schweitzer,and he
sent a signed picture of himself - dear old man. He is most interested in
HEIA. I also had a very nice letter from a ﬁrs Ripley,tinley Foundation-
thanks to You. i have written to her with as much information as I could
give. I hope I may hear from her again. Funds are pretty low, but will
manage somehow. I must get a decent typewriter — it's quite a job doing

      
      
 

IJear i”rs Stevens,

     
    
       
     
   
   
   
   
    
     
   
    
    
       
       
      
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
    
  
 
   
 
 

‘.~

    
     
     
           
      
  

 
   




e*ytt1nf 0n mv
Ixeenon lenee, I
peet1ve “dvie ery eenn1t1ee nenher
nt

1
gm

V

S

poin
1110710”

7"
JL

p.34 .1
,J
M. m
<~ 1...;
r

d” ‘

1-4

3...“...
-J

70

(A
’“4

(T

\

f‘ E

‘.-a.J
r
k

:36.)

F3
<+ W“ (/1

vav'

\_

2w \
Pl! K.

‘5:

90 H: :3‘ 3:3 0'
<3 1-3

CD

0

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

To open cut herr‘)

mane

V
~13

V

1 ”3
S ft} y , n 0 L8“:

53 1"

no able A3 seen 0 I get through the current _1le

ilIO :21 down to drz3ft1ng a note 10? sending around the:

31 ,end 1ntreducing ee 3ch one to tne othe er.
1 am 2 bit perplexed about 13 ,twe mitter of cellect1ng smell amount‘

for e1tner subselipt1on fr 0m erelne‘y nettelm end for items of l1ter

neuentity. ion see, all tl1eee pfrleee Peuxt1lee eute1de E. A.,1eve

cu1lluey, and mostly of 1ttle velee. Tne Congo 1ren£e is “13n:1
3113 many more. f «net een Aeeet nuch pe nyment 0

n theee sou A1 think 1t of eet value to
“"81" 11101113 :10 you thl ' Had
_ te mp3 « collec 1
lueky eh? nee of an eye 0190181

n3 get min to examine Meeur me t1

mentns yeti red

afraid I might nave to 333

.x for 8 time. All can do,1e

and not drive a car at nighti

e detail, but wanted you
see the Z ologilul Soc peeple, do

met If L1 tle I 123 nape d to intere _
0t 101 D? 1. Even 11 funds are buqrentee
nten

smell
If.)

T

ll

3..

1," m
vs K!

I

what

C?
I

‘2.

*‘(ﬁ)’ C'?‘ 0

(+0

get
thought of
value.
st,(lndien)
t I would not
the poor
in the near
avoid too

W
$8 I J.
9

0

ml 1 (I:

“thigh q

*1 ’1}
$3

9C3
1.)

J

(D

.

d

J

1-;

Q)

he

(.3 ’29
L; J

H

‘ .Ill,’ “eye 0
L1,

,nis ch

P.

(“Pt—“3‘19 C)

2—3 _,

(I) H: ‘— '1
E

H- w

0') h

Haeny

#43

m
ac)

T
J.

, a
".1
" -4

F4

I‘ll be nr1t111g; a with me
these few lines.
Sorry I am, not to he ve
the 1113 Life unneuuery projec
eetebl1ehment, it will need some 1:1nd of endowment fund 101 1:;31

,1
I

£31m SOQH
If you

T
O P”

.L.

14

legerds,
Sincerely,
).

3‘

(—-— First fold here ——-)
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII V; .rzo‘IIUF‘DIIIIOO.D&JI10linltIIIIICOI£IOOIUQDIODOIOIOOIICIIIIIIIDIOIICICI ‘..‘.1'v:’~-'.‘.~II..‘-.--.I.-...I
J

 

HHHSOFIDNH
awwvuoouev
H ELLIH'I H I V
NOIAV uva

‘
0

1859113138 PUB 9111811 S‘JQPUGS

{emtuv

UL)

_ 1/-
3511...,

J
(—9: 9.19

n
1.

iv.
a.

'vamv 30 ammsm

L...

rr:
I: 0:136? 77

”VJ—H} ”DELL “f"“u.

I

NOIIVJﬁaE JNVNHH

"£1172 X08 '0 'd

l

111% AHVNIGHO m was ‘dO
‘NW‘WS 53 am

I Y ‘1
-.~.-—p.. "4......- -»'.--~AM—‘—w.
. , r . ‘ . - ,

“v '3 ‘VXIANVSNVL
‘ 9: ‘ 31.10 I. 1191;:

ANV NIVINOC) .LON (I'IHOHS HELLLEU HIV NV
CVWITH)

 

 

 

:3 TA."

 

 

CIEIDHVHOHHS 38 THAA .LI SEIOCI ll :11

 

I}.

 

 

 

tr»
4
‘eqnqtqsug elegfe

wﬂWeﬁv—n-p’wy ' <.
V ‘ I. .
I

 

 

 

 




%mane9 é%caébn fM/d/w/a 6/ $64

0757a “67% gﬂ%x 24/3.

2/” ‘%m " 5/525 9/429 aid daéam/
inﬂagya%a/ 61%

‘ oil». 1%... LS" V...» mm... (ilk/M.”
Fax/1mm f’ ~— g [ix “C. -oJQ.<»d. jg ﬁxiwckl rile/Cu Ea.
{/kauix 3%? fo/wmfg- €wa (3, ’hkipybm c 513QQ~Z§MQM :

‘RPE‘A I”) C“ \HW f: WQmw,

I
i I

vi

3/

/1J

3% I- (A. 3.1 :23 [(2.3 \ ‘~ C.

i
\‘3 3
I

5‘:

*3

ifh Q” , W/QW

 




