The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for

101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports,

Westminster, S.W.1.
Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

VOL. VIII. NO. I I . NOVEMBER, 1934 2d MONTHLY: 2/6 per annum,

post free.

CONTENTS.

PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 8,; ERNEST BELL
STAG AND HOUNDS DASHED TO DEATH 84

PAGE

LIBRARY «MEMORIAL 85
FIVE HOURS’ SUCCESSFUL OTTER HUNT 86
GENTLEMEN OF ENGLAND 87

T/ie Editor accepts 7:0 resporzsiéi/ity for opiniam expressed in signed articles.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 

 




 

Page Eighty—two C R U E L

S P O R T 5 November, I934

 

 

VIEWS AND

NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

. Public Meeting at Malvern

A Public Meeting against Cruel Sports will
be held in the Lecture Hall, Public Library,
Malvern, on Tuesday, November 20th, at 8
pm. The Rev. C. L. Bradley, M.A., D.Mus.
(Oxo-n), President of the Oxford and District
Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports, will
preside, and the chief speaker will be Air-
Commodore L. E. 0. Charlton, C.B., C.M.G.,
D.S.O., and he will be supported by Rev. R.
Raw, Miss~ Emily Cox, M.A., and others.

All in the district who heard the brilliant
case Commodore Charlton put up against blood
sports in his debate on the wireless with Lady
Oxford, last year, will want to be present at
this meeting, and we earnestly urge them to
attend and take as many friends as possible
with them. '

Miss Lucy Cox, Hornyold Road, Malvern,
is organising the meeting and will supply fuller
particulars to anyone writing to her. Admis-
sion is free, but a collection will be taken to-
wards the expenses.

Puhlic .Meeting at Bristol

A public meeting will be held at the Redland
Park Hall, Bristol, on Friday, Nov. 16th, at
8 pm. . The Rev. Canon A. H. Sewell will
preside, and the Speakers include Rev. Canon
L. G. Mannering, E. More, Esq., London, and
W. P. H. VVarn-er, Esq., Torquay. Discussion
invited, admissionfree, and all interested cordi-
ally welcomed.

This meeting will be preceded by a ‘Neek’s
Shop Campaign, November 9th to T6th, in the
White Ladies Road (near Picture House) 10
am. to '7 p.m., fuller particulars of which can
be obtained from Miss M. L. Brown, 13,
Alexandra Road, Bristol, 8.

The Christmas Animals’ Fair

We urgently appeal to all members to help
to make our effort at the Animals’ Fair on
December 1st, at the Central Hall,‘ VVest-
minster, a huge ﬁnancial success by generously
sending us their gifts for sale on the stall.
Prior to the Fair we shall probably have ex-
pended over £60 on the organising and holding
of public meetings at Buxton, Chapel-en-le—
Frith, London, and Malvern and this will make
a serious inroad on our already depleted income.
Our action in boldly “ Raising the Standard ” in
hunting districts not previously visited is en.-
dorsed by all our friends and we go forward
with the campaign in the knowledge that as our
days so will our financial strength be.

Our Christmas Card

We desire to- remind our friends of the beauti—
ful Card we have prepared for Christmas and to
urge them to secure copies at once as there is
a considerable demand for it. As noted in our
last issue it is by Margaret Tarrant and is en-
titled “ Love Amongst the Snows,” price 3d.
each, or 2s. 10d. per dozen, post free, with
envelopes .

Fox—Hunting

The fox-hunting season opens this month and
will continue till the end of April in about 200
Hunts. This means that for the next six
months the leading, most inﬂuential people in
the country will be chasing a. sensitive little
creature like a fox with from twenty to thirty
dogs to the death as a pleasure.

_3ut it means more than this. It means the
upsetment of the work of the farmer and the
poultry-breeder in the rural districts. It means
the ﬂaunting before the community of deﬁnite
acts of cruelty to animals, and, particularly, the
illustration to the children of a wickedness that
breeds callousness and cruelty in their young
life.

\Vhen one thinks not only of the gross cruelty
involved but of the stupidity of the whole thing,
in the light of the fact that the hunters can get
all the best out of hunting by following a Drag
Hunt, one is humiliated at the thought that so
many of our leading people are still so debased.

Wife Helps English Bullfighter

Under this heading the newspapers of Sep-
tember ‘25th, tell. of an Englishman killing a
bull in the ring at La Linea, near Gibraltar. His
wife is reported to be “ an excellent horse-
woman ” and to have “ acted as banderillero
and placed darts in the bull, steering the animal
from one side to the other as required by her
husband. ” .

This incident is a painful humiliation to our
pride as the leading humanitarian nation and
suggests that the international group which a
few months ago tried to foist Rodeo on to us
in London is trying other methods to subvert our
humane standards. If only they can create some-
thing of an atmosphere amongst English peOple
abroad sympathetic to these forms of animal
exploitation, they will soon try again to insert
the wedge in this country. We must, there-
fore, not only expose and protest against all
such direct attempts to this end in England, but
also protest against them whenever we learn of
them being fostered by English-speaking people
abroad.

E. Douglas Hume had an effective letter in

 

" “*fw'w '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

November, l 934 .

 

CRUEL SPORTS

”Page Eighty-ﬁve

 

 

THE ERNEST BELL LIBRARY MEMORIAL

The movement for a humanitarian Collection
"or Section within one of our large national
Libraries in London as a Memorial to the
late Mr. Ernest Bell is now assuming more
deﬁnite shape. As stated in an‘earlier issue,
the idea was ﬁrst mentioned by Mr. Henry S.
‘Salt to the writer last May, when, together, they
agreed to sponsor it and lay it before the
humanitarian public generally. Sir Maurice
Abbot-Anderson, Miss Lind-of-Hageby, and Dr.
B. G. Allinson, and, later, Mr. H. Gr. Chancel-
lor, were invited to join Mr. Salt and the writer
in a Committee, to. carry fo-rWard the project;

On July 28th a circular was issued to over
”thirty humanitarian groups in this country and
‘to a few in America Which had been closely in
touch with Mr. Bell. Favourable replies were
received from most of these, but a few, whose
Committees had not met since the holidays,
have still to report.

Quite a number of valuable letters of sup-
port have also been received from representative
workers, including—The Countess of Warwick,
Mr. T. Baty, LIL.D., Mr. Edward Garnett,
Mr. Samuel HOpgood Hart, Mrs. Speedwell

Massingham, Rev. Francis Wood, Miss Catherine ~

'Greville, Miss Kate Whitaker, Miss C. A.

Andrews, Mr. E. G. Barlow, etc.

Amongst the Societies which have replied are
the following:—

The Howard League, and the National Council
for the Abolition of the Death Penalty. The
former “assured” us of its support, and the
latter “heartily endorsed” the proposal.

The National Council for Animals’ Vl7elfare
are “ very much in sympathy with the general
idea,” and the Animal Defence Society sent its
‘ sincerest good wishes for success to the excel-
lent scheme.”

The National Canine Defence League secre-
tary felt sure his committee would support the
proposal as “ we all cherish the name of Mr.
Bell.”

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel
Sports, and the League for the Prohibition of
Cruel Sports both approved the proposal. Mr.
Bertram Lloyd, the Hon. Secretary of the for-
mer, wrote: “ Your letter was discussed at
length at our Council meeting. There was no
opposition and all welcomed it.”

The National Equine Defence League Com-
mittee decided that the proposal should be
“ strongly supported.” ‘

The British Union for the Abolition of Vivi-
section, the London and Provincial Anti-Vivi-
section Society, and the \Vorld League against

 

 

 

 

 

Vivisection, all wrote supporting the idea, and
promising co-operation.

The Executive Committee of the Vegetarian
Society was “ heartily in agreement,” whilst
the London Vegetarian Society’s Executive
thought the scheme “ an excellent one.” The
Fruitarian Society passed a. resolution that the
matter was one of “ public importance and con-
siderable social. value,” and Miss May Yates,
the Founder and Hon. Secretary of the Bread
and Food Reform League, thought the idea “ a
splendid one.”

The Pit Ponies Protection Society thought
the idea “ deserving of every support.”

Both the Scottish S.P.C.A. and the Ulster
S.P.C.A. approved the proposal, the latter
promising to do “ all in its power to pro-mote its
success.” '

America was equally warm in. support of the
project. Writing on behalf of both the American
Humane Education Society, and the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, Dr. Ro-wley, the President, said:
“ I can assure you. of the hearty endorsement
of our two Societies, believing that this project
is one worthy of the co—operation of all humane
organizations. ”

Fuller particulars will be reported in due
course; meantime it is hoped that a meeting of
all interested, will be held at the Central Hall,
Westminster, on Saturday afternoon, December
1st, whilst the Animals’ Fair is being held, to
go further into the matter. Full details of the
meeting will be sent direct to each Society in
due course.

All communications should be addressed to

the Hon. Secretary, Ernest Bell Library
Memorial, T), King’s Park Road, Bournemouth.
H.B.A.

 




 

Page Eighty-six

 

CRUEL SPORTNS

November, I934

 

 

Five Hours’ ‘ Successful ’ Otter Hunt

The ﬁnal meet of the Lancashire visit of the
Eastern Counties Otterhounds was productive
of an excellent day’s sport, being considered by
local followers as one of the best hunts ever
seen on the Ribble.

Our last day was on Big Ribble. Meeting at
Mytton, hounds drew doWnstream, and, at
Calder foot, had a good touch, and lower down
were very keen at a drain, which the terriers
ran, evidently the lodgings of an otter the night
before. Drawing on with a steadily improving
drag, the pack ﬁnally marked at a large tree
root by a long, deep pool above Dinkley Ferry,
known as Reed Deep. Local followers informed
us that it was a difﬁcult place to bolt an otter
from, but before terriers had been called for,
.the otter mad-e his exit through the baying pack,
and the hunt was up. This pool was over 300
yards in length and 50 yards wide, with a depth

varying form ten to three feet, bounded on one '

side by high rocky cliffs and woods, and on the
other by steep banks. Hounds swam their otter
magniﬁcently up and down the pool, being
helped occasionally by the views from the
watchers who had managed to cross and take
positions at the water’s edge under the cliffs.
After four hours’ hard swimming, hounds lost
their quarry for some time, until it was again
located by a single hound in a tree root several
yards from the water’s edge, under the feet of
a number of watchers! The terriers Feran and
Sandy were requisitioned, the latter drawing
his otter, and having a great tussle in the open
before the otter again took to the water. Swim-
ming straight across the pool, with hounds close
behind, he landed and ran for the woods,
hounds making the welkin ring with their cry.
Gaining the'water the pack again swam him
the length of the pool, pulling .him down when
he once. more essayed to get into the wood.
The hunt lasted just over ﬁve hours, the otter
turning the scales at about 19 lbs.

Thus ended one of the most successful visits
of recent years to this district. Hounds were
out eight days, hunted ﬁve otters, killing four
and marking others to ground which could not
be bolted. Twenty-six members of the hunt
were up during the visit.

GINGER.

From the East Anglican Times, Sept. 17.

Cruelty to Animals
Cruelty to animals, whether wild or tame,
Is a slur on any country, whatever be its name.
And what a vile example, to children it must
be!
Sowing in their little minds, the seeds of
cruelty. EMMA E. \VOMAC'K.

Humane Killing of Foxes

From the Manchester Guardian, Sept. 25.

Sir,—-—Since those who preserve foxes for hunt-
ing frequently deny the possibility of the humane
extermination of these animals, we have at-
tempted to obtain evidence on this point.

It was reported some months ago that the
geese at Whipsnade had been attacked by foxes
and that in consequence a number of the latter
had been shot by order of the Zoo authorities.
We therefore ventured to inquire what methods
were used and how many foxes, if any, escaped
wounded. In reply to this Sir Peter Chalmers
Mitchell has kindly sent us the following state-
ment:— '

Cur park at VVhipsnade is in the centre of

a district where there are a great many foxes,

and one or two coverts were inside our boun-

daries. When we enclosed the park we caught
with nets and bags as many foxes as we could
and liberated them outside our boundary.

Since then we have been troubled occasionally

by foxes getting in. We found that the best

way was to locate them and then have an
organised beat with guns surrounding the
thicket in which they were. At no time has

a fox escaped us or got away wounded.

Although VVhipsnade is enclosed, thickets
there do not differ materially from those on a
farm or any other park or estate. It would
seem, indeed, that the difﬁculties in a park
containing yaks, llamas, emus, and other
creatures must have been rather greater than
elsewhere.

It is clear that, if desired, the shooting of
foxes in English. hunting districts can be carried
out with humanity and efﬁciency.

Oxford. M. C. C. CHAPMAN.
“ A Church of The One Life ”

“ Where can that mysterious thing called
life come from if not from God? In this
church we regard Him as not only transcendent
but also immanent. Then must all the king-
doms of nature be but stages in the long
pilgrimage of a life that is essentially divine,
from unconscious perfection in the earlier king-
doms, through conscious imperfection in the
human to conscious perfection in the super-
human. All stages would thus be equally
divine in essence, origin, and destiny.

“ The large and ever-growing number of
workers for the protection of animals from
various forms of cruelty calls for a Church
which will voice their feelings and enable them
to worship after their own hearts.

“ \Ve use no formal Creed, as truth is a
ladder of many rungs.”

Rev. E. F. UDNY.
( V

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

November, I 934 .

CRUEL SPORTS

 

 

The Gentlemen of England!

The gentlemen of England who ﬁnd a strange
and savage pleasure in the hunting of the fox
are at their lovely pursuit for another winter.

Gallant sportsmen that they are, they grew
incensed with all the rage their ﬁne and sensi-
tive natures could command at the story of the
man who, daring to be cruel to a fox, was ﬁned
by a Bench of county gentlemen. Noble
creatures that they are, their hunting hearts
rejoiced, no doubt, to think that justice still
seeks in this our righteous land to save the
harmless fox from the cruel assaults of man. . .

Gallant fellows, noble creatures—how beauti-
fully they merit these ﬂattering epithets. Stately
in their coats of pink, astride their graceful
steeds, they show the lesser breeds the gentle-
manly way to deal with foxes. Theirs is the
truly sporting way, setting the ﬂeet-foot hounds
to chase their quarry over hill and dale till,
spent and exhausted. the happy fox surrenders
gladly to his just and merciful pursuers.

How sweet a sport is this! How eagerly the
cheerful fox jumps to join the gallant sports-
men in their noble pastime.

Gallant gentlemen! the foxes wish you happy
hunting. . . .

——.Jditorial, Sussex County Herald, Sept. 28.

Princess Royal Cub Hunts

The Princess Royal attended her ﬁrst fox-
hunt since her illness when she joined yesterday
the cubbing meet of the Bramham Moor Hunt
at the gates of Harewood Park. She did not
hunt at all last year, and it was with great
pleasure that members of the hunt greeted her.
. It was a typical September hunting morning,
with heavy dew drenching the ground and a
tang of frost in the air. The Princess Royal
rode to the meet at seven o’clock, accompanied
by her sons, Lord Lascelles and the Hon. Gerald
Lascelles. She enjoyed more than two hours’
hunting.

———Daily Mail, Sept. 20.
Princess Marina

“ Prince George is very anxious that she
should take up fox-hunting,” although, she
added, “I do not like it as well as they all
think I ought to. Tennis is my favourite sport.”
' _ —News-Clz,ronicle, Sept. 18..
“ All This is True ’_’

“ Sport is cruel unless you have to live 011
what you kill. Fish dislike being hooked, foxes
dislike being hunted, game detests being shot,
and hares wail when. they are coursed. All. this
is true.”

LADY OXFORD in Sunday Despatch, Aug. 26.

 

Page Eighty—seven

]. H, Priestley on Hunting People

“ I do not understand hunting people . . .
they should not pretend to be solemnly doing
their duty when in reality they are indulging
and enjoying themselves. . . .

“ The fox-hunter who begins mumbling
excuses, who tells you that he hunts to rid the
countryside of foxes, that hunting is valuable
because it improves the breed of horses (i.e.,
hunters), is a co-ntemptible fellow.

“ But I am prepared to respect the hunting
man who looks you straight in the eye and de-
clares in downright fashion: ‘I hunt because
I like it. Hunting’s the most glorious sport in
the world, and I live for it. It may be extrava-
gant, cruel, anti-social, anything you like, .but
I don’t give a d And as long as society
allows me to hunt, I shall hunt. Halloo!’

“ But I have not met him yet.” ,

J. H. PRIESTLEY.

 

—Passing Show, July 7.

What the Fox said

When I told a well-known fox yesterday that
two hounds belonging to the Pytchley Hunt had
been killed in an accident, the animal said,
“ Oh, they enjoy being killed, particularly
when they are thoroughly frightened ﬁrst. Tell
the M.F.H. I haven’t had such a good laugh
since Lady N ' was bitten in Quarry Wood
by her favourite hound.” —BEACHCOMBER.
——Daily Express, Aug. 31.

 

Stag~gering !

A stag-hunt turned into a man-hunt in a
forest near Oberschoenau (Thuringia). The
stags, instead of running away turned round and
attackedtheir pursuers. A gamekeeper retired
injured by a hefty kick. Then a beater was
charged by another stag who lifted him up on
his horns and tossed him into the air. The
beater’s. cheek was pierced and his back severely
injured when he landed heavily on 7 a rock.
After that (says Reuter) the hunt was given up.

——Western Press, Sept. 18.

Foxes Shot to Save Poultry
Tiptree (Essex), Sunday.

Poultry farmers here are up in arms against
raids on their chicken runs by fox-es.

They are tired of waiting for the slaughter of
the invaders by followers of the East Essex
Hunt. So they go out with guns and shoot
foxes at sight and the hunt is indignant. The
farmers estimate that there are between ﬁfty
and a hundred foxes in one square mile of the
district.

 

——Daily Express, Sept. 24.

 




CRUEL SPORTS WM

Page Eighty-eight November,

#4

L The League For The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

l0], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

 

Vice-Presidents—
GERALD GOULD, Esq.

DAME LOUISA INNES LUMSDEN.
.4 LL.D_. (Edinburgh).

LADY EMILY LUTYENS.

DONALD MAC'I.E0D. Esq.
(Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic CL).

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport———“ pleasure”! :

IT CONDEMNS fox deer, bare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “Blood Sports Condemned”)

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. ( See leaﬂet “ Drag—hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation . ( See
leaﬂet “ Blooded.” )

LADY CLARE ANNESLEY.
SIR HERBERT BARKER.
MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.I.it.,
ALD. M. CONWAY, J .P.

(Ex-Pres., Nat. Un. Tchrs.).
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster).
G. P. GoooH, D.Litt.

E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
HENRY W. NEVINSON, Esq.
BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
EDEN PHILLPOTTS, Esq.
PERCY A. SCHOLES, Esq.
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.

 

 

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Group, etc., if out-of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
available.

JOIN THE ' LEAGSUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith*

State
Whether
Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss.

’5/- per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S., Ior, Chandos House, Westminster, S.W.I.

 

FORM OF BEQU EST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by Will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :— .

begueath unto the Sootety called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL SPORrs, London, the sum
of .............................. free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid 10 the

Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue of the Act. of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

BUDLEIGH SALTERTON, the Coastal Gem of South Devon.
Superior Board Residence. Bedrooms with h. and 0.
running water, varied and attractive food. Adequate-

B RIG H TO N ._Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and 0. water, gas

ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, inclu-
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, 16 and
17, Norfolk Terrace.

BEAUTIFUL BUTTERMERE._Yictoria Golf Hotel. Season
terms £4/4/—, Swiss balconies 10/6d. extra. (Quiet
periods 75 per cent.)

vegetarian meals if desired—Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale
Wormald, “Mountway.”

WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880._Sewell, 51,
caster Gate, London.

HUMANE. FUR! (fabric)._.104, George Street, W.1., Wel-
beck 7257.

Lam--

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of ltd. per word per insertion or 2/6d. per line for twelve
insertions and they should be received at the ofﬁce by the 15th of the month for the following month’s issue.

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD., Bond Gate, Nuneaton.

__

 




