WHAT CAN WE DO?

FRIENDs are constantly writing to ask how they can help

our cause. We have much pleasure in offering the following

suggestion of a way in which assistance may be always

rendered by anyone desirous of forwarding the good work.

The value of an organ which shall be widely read and
respected, not only by friends but foes, is so great that
probably only those long accustomed to conduct public work
can fully appreciate it. It constitutes in fact the artillery
of the 002/155 d’ai/mée. Now the friends of the Anti-
Vivisection cause are provided at no small expense of
labour and cash with a tolerably good gun (though we
say it who should not) in the shape of THE ZOOPHILIST,
and it depends on them whether they bring it fairly
into the field so that it may pour its shot well into the
opposite ranks, or let it remain mounted merely for the
encouragement of our own party. If in the next month or
two our friends will exert themselves in the ways we shall
indicate we think we can promise them that before the
session is ended THE ZOOPHILIST, already rapidly increasing
in circulation, will have become a power in the land,
and a machine by which all the efforts of the defenders
of torture to suppress and garble the records of Vivisection

and misinstruct the public will be set at nought and rendered

 




2 ‘Vﬁa;

In“
:1,
’ N

futile. The horrors of Vivisection negdi ionly ﬁg be
proclaimed on the housetops to be suppressed bg‘? the

‘1»
indignation of mankind. THE ZOOPHILIST IS ’the‘Trumpet

expressly intended to proclaim thengéﬁ mIt ‘remairis With iburﬂ

supporters to carry it up to the housetops. {5. if. _ . ..

VVe ask :—

I. That every member of a Club, Library, or Reading
room shall exert his or her utmost inﬂuence to have

THE ZOOPHILIST kept on the table.

2. That subscribers should habitually keep the current
copy on their own drawing-room tables. The pretty
blue covers which will be furnished renders this

request by no means a hard one.

3. That each should make it a personal request to his or
her newsagent or circulating library-keeper to take
copies on sale or return, and exhibit contents tables
in his shop. Copies as ordered will be furnished on

application in Victoria Street.

4. That attractive quotations from its pages be constantly
sent by friends to local papers with reference to THE
ZOOPHILIST, and (when possible) accompanied by

orders for advertisement in the same paper.

 

 




