THOSE “SIMPLE" FEEDING EXPERIMENTS!
How THE PUBLIC Is HOODWINKED

According to the Annual Parliamentary Return for 1938 :

“ The number of experiments comprising inoculationsﬁ“ hypo-
dermic injections and other proceedings performed without
anaesthetics was 908,846.” (p. 3).

It is claimed that “ Experiments performed under Certiﬁcate A.,
without anaesthetics, are only such as are attended by no con-
siderable, if appreciable, pain.” (p. 4).

Few people realise the amount of suffering which is often entailed
by so—called feeding experiments, which usually consist in depriving
the animal of certain constituents of the diet known to be essential
to health.

(1) Illustrations 1 and 2 show the magniﬁed normal eyes of a
hooded and albino rat respectively. 3 and 4 show the eyes of these
rats after a diseased condition (Xerophthalmia) has been produced
by a diet deﬁcient in Vitamin A. Photos were supplied by White’s
Laboratories Ltd. (Health Products Corp, Newark, N...J)

(2) Actual ulceration and perforation of the cornea (front lens
of the eye) was a condition “seen at different times in puppies
eating linseed oil, lard, autoclaved and oxidised butter as fat ele—
ments, also in pregnant bitches eating diets deﬁcient in the F at-
soluble Vitamine.” These experiments were described by Professor
Mellanby, M.A., M.D., in the Special Report, No. 61, of the Medi-
cal Research Council, entitled “ Experimental Rickets ” (page 73).
Other symptoms included paralysis, tetany and convulsions.

(3) In another of the Medical Research Council’s Special Reports,
(1932, No. 167, p. 190), experimental scurvy induced in guinea-
pigs by diet deﬁciency is described as follows :—

“ The symptoms of severe scurvy in guinea-pigs are briefly the
following. Tenderness and swelling of the joints are the earliest

 

*See leaflet: That Pin-prick experiment.

 




signs, and the animal will frequently adopt a position (scurvy
position) in which it rests on its side, while the affected member is
held twitching in the air. In other cases the animal lies down
with the side of its face upon the floor, indicating that its gums
and jaw have become tender.” In animals dying from scurvy :—

‘ “ Haemorrhages occur in any position, but are most frequent in
the limbs. In cases where they occur in the intestinal tract, blood
is frequently passed in life and death occurs suddenly.”

(4) In the British Medical 7ournal, May 12th, 1934 (p. 849), the
following description of the effects of diet on rats is reported :—

“ The spasms were of considerable severity, and were reminis-
cent of insulin convulsions in the rabbit. The animals were
hurled with great violence from side to side of their cages during
the tonic stage. In the clonic stage they attempted to climb the
walls of their cages, but appeared to be too weak to do so... .
Rat 7 had a few further clonic spasms an hour later and died.”

(5) The effect of excessive doses of Vitamin D (Irradiated ergos—
terol) on 113 puppies is described in the British fournal of Experi-
mental Pathology, Oct. 1932 (p. 403). Pup No. I suffered from
rapid loss of weight, vomiting, diarrhoea, conjunctivitis which kept
the lids almost completely closed, until death on 11th day. At
the post mortem on pup No. 4 the bowel was found to be
haemorrhagic and in parts gangrenous. “ Of 30 puppies which
died as a result of ergosterol overdosage intussusception was the
cause of death in 10 . . . In three of the instances the intussusception

was double.” (p. 405).
(6) In the British Medical fournal, January 21, 1928 (p. 91),

the following effects of “ Experiments in Nutrition ” are described
by Prof. V. H. Mottram, M.A. Camb. :—

“ Sometimes the ﬁts are delayed till about the eighteenth day
when they are much more violent. The animal, in between the
ﬁts, walks on tiptoe, as though there were a permanent extensor
spasm, and when the ﬁts supervene dashes violently about the
cage screaming, or rolls over in convulsions with the jaws locked
in an open position. Death is the usual sequel.”

(7) According to the Medical Press, Nov. 28th, 1928 :—

“Some curious experiments are reported on animals by de
Boer, who observes that complete abstinence from food brings
about death more quickly if ﬂuids are witheld. Fasting pigeons
die within four or ﬁve days of thirst, whereas if they are given
water only they may live twelve days. Dogs can fast on an
average sixty days, but a mouse dies in from ﬁve to seven days,
a pigeon in eleven, and a condor in forty days.” (p. 444).

(8) In the fournal of Pathology and Bacteriology, Vol. 35 (Sept.
1932, p. 743), is an account of the morbid changes which had taken
place in the internal organs of 16 rabbits which had died as a result
of being fed upon corrosive sublimate (perchloride of mercury).

M.B.B.

 

Issued by
THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCHETY

15, St. James's Place, St. James's Street, London, S.W.1., and
4, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva, Switzerland

St Christopher Press Ltd., Letchworth

 




