The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.—No. 101

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%§
APPEAL iron 1, g
THE BIRDS ' g

Wﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁrﬁﬁmﬁﬁmﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ§

\

%
§
§
§
§
%
§
%
%

This article appeared in The’Daily M ail, under the heading “Don’t
spare the rod if it will save the birds,” by Pat. Murphy, and is
reprinted by kind permission of the Proprietors.

 




 

2

In this war year it is the duty of any adult to drag from any
hedgerow or tree, by a reluctantly washed ear, every small boy
he or she may see plundering birds’ nests.

Remember only one boy in 100 collects a specimen egg from
each nest; the other 99 smash the nests and the eggs or scatter
the chicks if they are already hatched.

We are able to live in this freest of all countries, grow food
for ourselves, and breathe an insect-free atmosphere only through
the activities of our rich bird life. So I am not appealing because
of the beauty of our birds or the loveliness of their songs, but
because these little barbarians—the nicest of whom seem to revert
to savagery at the sight of a bird’s nest—are handicapping farmers
to—day, apart from the more serious menace with which they are
loading the future.

Roughly speaking, putting aside all love of beauty and
devotion to Nature, there are two kinds of birds which are
essential to our lives. One is the bird who cleans our soil and
makes it possible for us to grow economic crops. This class
includes such creatures as the hawks and the owls, who slaughter
millions of moles, voles, shrews and ﬁeld mice, and keep down the
population of sparrows and other destructive birds.

Chief Sufferers

A hawk will kill and eat as many as 10,000 of these little pests
in. a year. Barn owls, the farmers best of friends, are believed
to) have been so reduced in numbers that not many years ago
there were only a few thousand throughout the whole of the
country.




3

In this same class there are the small birds who clean the soil
of caterpillars, cockchafers, the deadly wireworm, which has taken
an enormous percentage of the crops sown on the old grasslands
compulsorily tilled since the outbreak of war, bettles and
destructive insects of all sorts. These birds, which include
thrushes, blackbirds, pied wagtails, peewits, starlings, and many
others, are the chief sufferers from the boy vandals.

These birds are also handicapped in the good they can do, to
a great extent by the modern methods of farming. For instance,
in our rush to cultivate as much land as possible these days, we
use three-furrow ploughs. The industrious birds can deal with
only one furrow at a time, because the other two are covered up,
and even then they are hard-put to catch a majority of the
predatory insects because the speedy, mechanically pulled plough
is upon them so quickly.

Then there are the birds who keep the air free of irritating and
noxious insects and keep our ponds clean—the swallows, swifts
and martins, the moorhen, the little grebe and the coot.

Again—apart from the merciless enemies, the boys—the
swift, the swallow and the martin are victims of modern con—
ditions, for in our cities, and even on our farms, iron has replaced
wood so much in the construction of buildings that they ﬁnd
it difﬁcult to build their nests.

The City’s Vermin

The hundreds of cities and towns work against the ﬁrst class
of birds which I have mentioned by offering harbourage to mice
and rats in tens of millions which, in open country, the birds
could attack and kill.

 




4

But these things cannot be altered; the important thing is to
prevent the murdering of the birds in their nests.

Never were the armies of boys stronger or more numerous,
largely owing to the inﬂux of evacuted children into the country

districts. It is the duty of everyone to stop their dangerous
and thoughtless vandalism.

Copies may be purchased at One Penny each, from the Royal
Society for the Protection of Birds, 82, Victoria Street, London,
S.W.1. Telephone, Victoria 2412.

 

C,L.J, London, W1,

 




