How the Birds Help the Farmer.

Labor saving inventions are the order of the day, and farmers spend large
sums of money in procuring instruments to help in their work, but many of them
ignore or destroy their most valuable assistants. Those who have made a study
of the subject tell us that without the birds no farming could be carried on. EVery
year one-tenth of all the products of agriculture is destroyed by insects. It is said
that there are over 100,000 kinds of insects in the United States, the majority of
which are injurious, and that one insect—eating bird destroys 2,400 insects in a
year. Many believe that if the birds had been allowed to multiply instead of
being destroyed, there would now be no necessity to spend thousands of dollars
every year for insect poisons.

Mr. Frank M. Chapman says that “ the economic value of birds" to man lies
in the service they render in preventing the undue increase of insects, in devour-
ing small rodents, in destroying seeds of harmful plants and in acting as scaven-
gers. Leading entomologists estimate that insects cause an annual loss of at least
two hundred million dollars to the agricultural interests of the United States.

. . . If we were deprived of the services of birds the earth would soon become
uninhabitable.” _ '

The farmer who sees birds eating his cherries may not consider the crops
they save by destroying insects, nor remember that it is not in the summer only, but
in the winter also, that birds are working for him.

The chickadee, nuthatch, woodpecker, and other birds are searching in the
tree trunks and along the fences for the eggs. and buried larvae of insects, which
would, if not disturbed, hatch out millions of ﬂying and crawling creatures that
would destroy the garden, orchard, and ﬁeld.

Some farmers are beginning to appreciate the value of birds as insect de-
stroyers and understand the necessity for active measures to insure their protec-
tion.

The Department of Agriculture realizing the importance of accurate knowl-
edge in this direction, has made examinatibns of the stomachs of forty different
kinds of birds to see what food they contained. These examinations were made
from a collection of 26,000 stomachs.

It has been found that the following birds are especially good friends to the farmer, 'Mm.’
should protect them in every possible way z—Phoebe, kingbird, catbird, swallow, brown thrasher, rose-
breasted grosbeak, house wren, vireos, cuckoo, oriole, the various native sparrows, warblers, shore lark,
loggerhead Shrike and meadow lark. The crow, crow blackblrd, and cedar bird do more good than

 

 




 

harm. The redhead and sapsucker woodpeckers may be injurious or beneﬁcial according to circum-
stances, but all the rest of the woodpeckers are very helpful.

Only three kinds of hawks seem to be guilty of the charges made against them, the goshawk, Cooper’s
‘ and the sharp—shinned, while all the rest are very helpful to the farmer and fruit grower.

The Bluebird is a good friend, destroying harmful insects and wild fruit can
be planted to encourage his presence. -

The Robin is found to eat but little cultivated fruit, less than ﬁve per cent.
Nearly half of hisfood consists of wasps, ants, spiders, grasshoppers, caterpillars,
etc. He also destroys the March ﬂy larva: which injures the grass in the hay
ﬁelds.

The Chickadee will in one day destroy 5,550 eggs of the canker worm
moth, and farms where this bird is encouraged to spend the winter are remarka-
bly free from these pests.

The Brown Thrasher eats some cherries and grain, but these constitute
only 11 per cent. of his food, and he does great good by the destruction of many
beetles which would do far more injury to the crops.

The House Wren and Butcher Bird do great good in destroying caterpil—
lars, bugs, crickets, spiders, grasshoppers, locusts, web worms, injurious beetles,
etc., etc.

The Butcher Bird and Loggerhead Shrike destroy grasshoppers, mice,
etc.

The Catbird is said to eat fruit, but while this is true in some parts of the
country, one-third of its food consists of harmful insects. This bird prefers Wild
fruits to cultivated, such as berry-bearing bushes, red mulberry trees, etc.

Mr. Judd suggests that the crops of cherries and strawberries be protected
by “planting the proliﬁc Russian mulberry, which if planted in hen yards and pig
runs, will afford excellent food for the hens and pigs, besides attracting the birds
away from more valuable fruit.” _

The Vireos help the farmer by destroying harmful insects.

Cedar Bird. More than one—half of its food consists of wild fruit, and one-
eighth of insects which are among the worst pests of the country, especially the
elm leaf beetle.

Swallows, not only are the greatest ﬂy catchers, but also destroy ﬂying
ants, beetles, and weevils. -

The Rose Breasted Grosbeak is fond of potato-beetles, and is especially
helpful to the farmer.

The Meadow Lark has been said to eat clover-seed, but that seems to be a
mistake, for 99 per cent. of his food at clover time was found to be insects,
mostly grasshoppers. It is estimated that the value of the grass crop saved by
meadow larks on a township of 36 square miles each month during the grasshopper
season is about $856.40. He also destroys other insects, among them some of the
, most injurious beetles.

Professor Beal says: — “Far from being injurious, it is one of the most use-
ful allies of agriculture, standing Without a peer as a destroyer of noxious
insects ”

The Red=Winged Blackbird is also a friend, destroying quantities of cater-
pillars, grasshoppers, and weevils, and even when in the cornﬁelds more than pays
for the corn eaten by destroying the worms in the husks.

In winter it destroys seeds of mg weed, fox—tail grass, and bird weed.

The Crow Blackbird destroys the rose bug, curculio, May beetle, grasshop-
per, cricket and locust. The birds follow the plow and feed on grubs. It is only
when in rare instances these birds descend upon a ﬁeld in hundred of thousands
that they may do much injury.

The Crow is said to feed on the sprouting corn and corn in the milk, on cul-
tivated fruit, and the eggs and young of poultry and wild birds.

While it has been found that these charges are true to a certain extent, yet
the amount destroyed is small compared with the good done in destroying injuri-
ous insects and animals. The eggs and young of poultry constitute only one per
cent. of his food for the year.




The crow destroys injurious insects z—grasshOppers, May beetles, cut worms,
etc., also mice. Moreover he does good service as a scavenger.*

The Bluejay has been accused, like the crow, of eating corn and young‘birds
and eggs, but it has been found that he prefers mast, seeds of trees such as acorns,
etc., and 22 per cent. of his food consists of grasshoppers, caterpillars, etc., so that
he does more good than harm.

The Horned Lark; or Shore Lark does great good by eating weed seed
and but little damage to grain crops.

The Yellow=Bellied Fly Catcher, Wood Pewee and Phoebe are all help-
ful to the farmer by their destruction of harmful insects.

The Kingbird has been accused of destroying honey bees, but examination
proved that nearly all the bees were drones, and that he feeds upon the robber fly,
the worst enemy of the honey bee, and known to kill 104 bees in a day. The
Kingbird also destroys the gad-ﬂy, ants, grasshoppers, rosechafers, clover weevil,
etc. He prefers wild cherries, elderberries, etc, to cultivated fruit.

The Flicker has been wrongfully accused of eating corn. Nearly half its
food consists of grasshoppers, and Professor Beal says. that this bird, also the
hairy and downy woodpeckers, should be protected and encouraged.

The Red=Headed Woodpecker eats more grasshoppers than any other wood-
pecker, also eats June bugs, weevils, etc.

The Woodpecker Sapsucker. These birds are largely insect-eaters. It is
only occasionally that an ornamental tree may be injured by them, and to protect
these, the black alder, Virginia creeper, wild black cherry, and juniper can be.
planted.

The Cuckoo, Black=Billed Cuckoo and Yellow=Billed Cuckoo are very
useful in destroying injurious beetles, grasshoppers, caterpillars, web worms, etc.,
etc.

Hawks and Owls. These are among the best friends of the farmer.

Dr. Fisher says: “ The birds of prey, the majority of which labor night and
day to destroy the enemies of the husbandmen, are persecuted unceasingly.”

The Marsh Hawk is one of the most useful. It has a white rump and ﬂies
low over the meadows, it lives on meadow mice, etc.

Red=Tailed Hawk, Hen Hawk. The bird does not deserve this name, 66
per cent. of its food consists of injurious mammals.

The Red=Shouldered Hawk, Sparrow Hawk, Swainson’s Hawk are all
most useful, destroying insects and mammals. It is said that 300 Swainson’s
Hawks in one month save 60 tons of produce that would otherwise be destroyed
by grasshoppers. ~

The Long=eared Owl destroys mice and disturbs but few birds, and is said
to do much good.

Barred Owl. Only 4% per cent. of its food consists of poultry and game
and it could do much less harm if chickens were shut up at night. Its food is
mostly made up of injurious insects and mammals.

The Screech Owl destroys both insects, mice, and rats.

The Barn Owl lives mostly on injurious mammals, gophers, moles, mice,
rats, etc. It has been found that 93 per cent. of its food consists of mice. Owls
remain with us through the winter feeding upon the little enemies of orchard,
garden and ﬁeld.

Birds of prey require a great quantity of food, and about two-thirds of them
are on the whole beneﬁcial. '

UNPAID LABORERS.

Our cows and horses eat our grain throughout the year, and it would be
strange, indeed, if we were unwilling to spare the small quantity which the birds

 

* Some farmers protect themselves by feeding to the crows old corn when the growing corn is in the
milk, or tar the corn before planting, thus securing the services of the crow in destroying the insect pests
'that Will surely injure the growing crop. The best methods of tarring are given in the “ Crow Bulletin,”
to be obtained of the Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

.Qﬁq’

 




take during a few weeks, when they spend the rest of the summer as unpaid day
laborers in our farms and gardens, freeing us from pests which threatento, destroy
all our proﬁts. ‘f‘ g 30",.

To ATTRACT THE BIRDS. . lQ/h 3,

Mr. Lawrence Bruner says: “ If we take pains ,-to water or; .‘frdsgaémng
the dry season, they will be much less apt to seek this supply; vgmvtjgle? g‘ﬁicy
fruits so temptingly near at hand.” He suggests placing little bans (Off: Waiter in
the orchard and Vineyard. It is well to plant wild fruiiithat w ._ Milillipg the
the weeks when the birds eat cultivated fruit. BRAF’fy ,7: g0 " 1

The Russian Mulberry may afford protection not only ton; aJwbeﬁriesaird-ng
cherries but to any other fruits and vegetables which may be ripeningi‘i-‘iaib‘outg the“ ""
'same time in the immediate vicinity. Rows of these trees, also early June berry
and shadberry trees should be planted near the orchard, along roads, and
between grain ﬁelds. -

Wild black cherry, choke cherry, elder, buckthorn, mountain ash, Virginia
creeper, dogwood, bittersweet, bayberry, and pokeberry are all useful to protect
the cultivated fruit.

FEED THE BIRDS IN WINTER.

When the ground is covered with snow the birds are in great danger of, ex-
termination by starving. The Commissioners of Birds in Rhode Island thrOugh
the newspapers'suggested that a small supply of grain or even the sweepings of
haymows would do much to relieve the distress of the birds. Crumbs should be
.saved for them.

The birds will like a bone or piece of suet or any fat meat nailed to a tree,
cracked rice, mixed bird-seed, cracked corn, oats, hempseed, nuts, bread, and sun—
"ﬂower seeds. Food boxes can be nailed to the trees, turning the backs to the pre-
“Vailing winds.

EXTRACT FROM RHODE ISLAND BIRD LAWS.

Any person wantonly killing, or pursuing with intent to kill, any song or in-
:sectivorous bird shall be ﬁned $20.00 for each offence.

Disturbing nest or eggs of any Wild Bird, penalty $20.00 each.

One-half of the ﬁne collected goes to the person making the complaint.

Commissioners of Birds and their deputies have power to arrest without war-
trant any persons violating laws relating to birds.

A law has been passed by Congress prohibiting interstate commerce in birds
"killed in violation of local laws or shipped in improperly marked packages, and
strengthening State laws by placing birds brought into a State on the same foot-
ing as the birds of that State.

Dealers in milliners’ supplies can be ﬁned forselling or keeping on hand, and
:any woman can be ﬁned for wearing plumage of birds native in State where the
killing and possession of such birds is prohibited.

Persons interested in agriculture not regularly receiving the Bulletins con-
cerning legislation for the protection of birds, should apply for them to the Bio-
logicalSurvey, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

Mr. William Dutcher, President of the National Association of Audubon
Societies, asks for help to carry on the work of protecting the birds. Unless
more active measures can be taken, there is great danger that the sea-gulls and
other useful and beautiful birds will become extinct. Three hundred wardens
are needed to guard the colonies of sea—gulls during the breeding season. Dona-
tions, and membership fees ($5.00 annually), are solicited, and may be sent to
.Frank M. Chapman, Treasurer, 525 Manhattan Avenue, New York, N. Y.

 

 

 

This leaﬂet can be obtained of Mrs. H.T. Grant, Secretary of the Audubon Society of Rhode Island,
'187 Bowen St., Providence, R. I. Price, 40 cents per hundred, postage paid. .

The use of a lecture on birds and lantern slides, belonging to the Audubon Somety, may be ob-
‘tained by applying to Mrs. Grant and paying express charges, on condition that the lecture be given free

.of charge.

 

 




