‘ PUBLISHED FOR DISTRIBUTION

NEWPORT SOC I IBIIIY

FOR T HE

PRO’I‘EC'UON 0F ANIMALS.

 




NEWPORT, R. 1.:
DAVIS 8: PITDJA'N, PRINTERS.
1882.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

CHAPTER 96,,
Public Statutes Of Rhode Island.

SECTION I To SECTION 16 INCLUSIVE.

SECTION I. Whoever shall overdrive,'overload, drive
when overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cruelly kill,
or cause or procure to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven
when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived
of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cru-
elly killed, any animal; and Whoever, having the charge
or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise,
shall inﬂict unnecessary cruelty upon the same or shall
unnecessarily fail to provide the same with proper food,
drink, shelter or protection from the weather, shall, for
every such Oﬂ‘ence, be imprisoned not exceeding one year
or be ﬁned not exceeding two hundred and ﬁfty dollars or
be both imprisoned and ﬁned as aforesaid.

SEC. 2. Every owner, possessor or person having the
charge or custody of any animal, who shall cruelly drive
or work the same when unﬁt for labor, or cruelly abandon
the same, or who shall carry the same or cause the same

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(4)

to be carried in or upon any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel

or inhuman manner, or wilfully authorize or permit the

same to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or
cruelty of any kind, shall be punished for every such
offence in manner provided in section one.

SEC. 3. No railroad company in the transportation of
animals shall permit the same to be confined in cars, after
they shall have been so conﬁned twenty-eight consecutive
hours, without unloading‘the same for rest, water and feed-
ing, at least ﬁve Consecutive hours, unless prevented from
so unloading by storm or accidental causes. In estimating
such conﬁnement, the time during which the animals have
been conﬁned without such rest on connecting roads from
which they are received shall be included; it being the
intent of this chapter to prohibit their continuous conﬁne-
ment longer than twenty-eight hours, except upon contin-
I'gencies hereinbefore stated. Animals so unloaded shall be
properly fed, watered and sheltered during such rest, by
the owner or person having the custody thereof or in case
of his default in so doing then by the railroad company
, transporting the same, at the expense of said owner or per-
son in custody thereof, and said company shall in such
case have a lien upon such animals for food, care and cus-
tody furnished, and shall not be liable for any detention of
such animals authorized by this chapter. Any company,
owner or custodian of such animals, who shall fail to com-
ply with the provisions of this section, shall for every such
offence be fined not less than one hundred dollars nor more
than ﬁve hundred dollars : Provided, however, that when-
ever animals shall be carried in cars in which they can and
do have proper food, water, space and opportunity for rest,
the foregoing provisions for unloading them shall not

apply.

A y“;

,3 A 4.
.q ,‘a..- ,7”- _— -~,_ -_ A ,. A-._,_‘___,_ I- a,

 

 




 

 

 

4 FL‘

 

 

 

 

 

J

i3§

 

 

(5)

SEC. 4. Any person violating the laws in relation to
cruelty to animals may be arrested on View and be held
without a warrant: Provided, that such arrest or deten—
tion without warrant shall not continue longer than six
hours; and the person making an arrest, with or without a
warrant, shall use reasonable diligence to give notice
thereof to the owner of animals found in the charge or cus—

tody of the person arrested, and shall properly care and

provide for such animals until the owner thereof shall take
charge of the same, provided the owner shall do so within
sixty days from the date of said notice. And the person
making such arrest shall have a lien on said animals for
the expense of such care and provision.

SEC. 5. Whenever complaint is made on oath to any
magistrate authorized to issue warrants in criminal cases
that the complainant believes and has reasonable cause to
believe, that the laws in relatiOn to cruelty to animals have
been or are being violated in any building or place, such
magistrate, if satisﬁed that there is reasonable cause for
such belief, shall issue a search warrant, authorizing any
ofﬁcer competent to serve a warrant to search such building
or place,.but no search shall be made after sunset, unless
specially authorized by the magistrate, upon satisfactory
cause shown.

SEC. 6. In this chapter the words animal and animals
shall be held to include all brute creatures, and the words
owner, person and whoever shall be held to include cor—
porations as well as individuals, and the knowledge and
acts of agents of and persons employed by corporations in
regard to animals transported, owned or employed by or in
the custody of such corporations, shall be held to be the
acts and knowledge of such corporations.

 




 

”-31—51‘3‘41» 1», .gm,m:“z ‘

4:" . ‘-

‘ ‘ww‘w- --“+.~-«-~- -~-~———————*——~m~__nw-w.~ __-..._.m_‘._.-_~ ____._.__.._._. . -_.

(6)

SEC. 7. Every sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable and
police ofﬁcer shall prosecute all violations of the provisions
of this chapter, which shall come to his knowledge, and all
ﬁnes and forfeitures resulting from the complaint of any
ofﬁcer or agent of the‘Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, under this chapter, shall enure and be paid
over to said society in aid of the benevolent objects for
which it was incorporated.

SEC. 8. The several justice courts shall have concur—
rent jurisdiction with the court of common pleas over all
offences under this chapter and to the full extent of the
penalties therein speciﬁed; parties defendant, however,
having the same right to appeal from the judgment of said
justice courts as is now provided by law in other criminal
cases. .

SEC. 9. If any maimed, sick, inﬁrm or disabled animals
shall be abandoned to die, by any such owner or person
having charge of the same, such person shall, for every
such offence, be punished in the manner provided in sec-
tion one.

SEC. 10. Any ofﬁcer authorized to serve criminal
process may enter any place, building or tenement where
there is an exhibition of the ﬁghting of birds or animals, or
where preparations are making for such exhibition, and
without a warrant arrest all persons there present and take
possession of the birds or animals engaged in ﬁghting and
of all birds and animals there found and intended to be

‘used or engaged in fighting; such persons shall be" kept in

custody in jail or other convenient place not more than
twenty-four hours, Sundays and legal holidays excepted;
at or before the expiration of which time such persons shall
be brought before a justice court or the court of common
pleas and proceeded against according to law.

 

 




 

.(7)-

‘SEC. II. After the seizure of any birds or animals, as
provided in the preceding section, application shall be made
to a justice court or the court of common pleas, for a decree
of forfeiture of the same; and if, upon the hearing of such
an application, it shall be found and adjudged that the
same, at the time of said seizure, were engaged in ﬁghting
at an exhibition thereof, or were owned, possessed or kept
by any person with the intent that the same should be so
engaged, they shall be adjudged forfeit, and any ofﬁcer
authorized to serve criminal process shall sell the same in
such manner as the court shall order, and pay the proceeds
of such sale after the payment of costs,\including costs of
seizure and keeping of said birds or animals, and of the
sale thereof as aforesaid, to the general treasurer to the use
of the state: Provided, that whenever such seizure and
application for decree of forfeiture shall be made by or
result from the complaint or information of any ofﬁcer or
agent of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals, the proceeds of such sale shall be paid over to said
society. Should it be found and adjudged that any such
birds or animals are of no use or value, the same shall be
set at large or otherwise disposed of, as the court may
direct. The claimant shall be allowed to appear in the
proceedings upon any such application. All such birds or
animals not adjudged forfeit shall be delivered to the owner
thereof.

SEC. 12. Any claimant aggrieved by any decree of
such court may, within ﬁve days after the entry of such
decree and before execution thereof, appeal therefrom to
the court of common pleas or supreme court then next to
be held in the county.

SEC. 13. The necessary expenses incurred in the care
and disposing of such birds or animals may be allowed and

 




 

. (8)

paid in the same manner that costs in criminal prosecutions

are»? a], . ’ 4; .

SEC. 14. Whoever shall own, possess, keep or train
any bird or animal, with the intent that such bird or animal.
shall be engaged in an exhibition of ﬁghting, shall be lined
not exceeding ﬁfty dollars.

SEC. 15. Whoever shall be present at any place, build—
ing or tenement where preparations are making for an
exhibition of. the ﬁghting of‘birds or animals, with intent to
be present at such exhibition or shall be present at such
exhibition, shall be ﬁned not exceeding ten dollars.

SEC. I6. .Every person who shall keep or use any live
pigeon, fowl :01" other bird for the purpose of a target or to
be shot at, either for amusement or as a test of skill in '

marksmanship, and every person who shall shoot at any
bird as aforesaid or be a party to any such shooting of any
fowl or bird; and every person who shall rent any build-
ing, shed, room, yard, ﬁeld or premises, or shall knowingly

suﬂ‘er or permit the use of any building, shed, room, yard,
ﬁeld or premises for the purpose of shooting any fowl or
bird as aforesaid, shall be ﬁned not exceeding twenty dol—
lars or be imprisoned not exceeding ten days or be both
ﬁned and imprisoned as aforesaid. Nothing herein con—
tained shall apply to the shooting of any wild game in its
Wild state.

 

 




