I.C.|.
GAME
RESEARCHES

 

 

, ' . 'I H '
:1, H. . ' , 1: -. ‘ ‘
“IA-Ti 7’5 .-, 11:7 4 ~-'~. ;
«:fv'!‘ ' ’ ”'4; ‘04
1' . ’m I “ , .
v. .. ’ . ;
Jo. ’ ‘ . ,, ‘ ‘ 'o
H I J 74" I ‘
,, . .
L / . ~l
r 5 , Mt . . In
I T V/
f l ‘4: I 'T'.
I .T ‘
1/
,, V
. J . 1,:
I j!) x, ‘3.- ./,
.!'\ g ‘/
10 I
. ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADVISORY LEAFLET

No. l2

DISEASE:
SOME SIMPLE TREATMENTS

JUNE. I937

 




 

 

 




 

-r..r___vg t

 

|.C.|.
GAME
RESEARCH ES

THIS is one of the series of informative
and advisory leaﬂets issued by the I.C.I. Game
Research Estate. A better understanding of
diseases in game birds Will assuredly be gained
in the course of these researches, and will be
made the subject of later leaﬂets.

I .C.I . Game Research Estate
North Lodge
Knebworth Park
H erts

 








 

DISEASE:
SOME SIMPLE TREATMENTS

Prefato ry Note

THIS leaﬂet is in no sense a treatise, scientiﬁc or
otherwise, on diseases in game. It mentions only the
few diseases that are most commonly encountered
on rearing-ﬁelds and amongst wild stock. It gives
no involved life-histories of disease-causing organisms.
It discusses no symptoms or conditions. It uses no
medical terms. It offers, in fact, no more than its
title implies: that is, some suggestions for simple and
practical treatments such as a keeper can apply,
and that we believe, from our own experience, he

will ﬁnd really helpful in protecting his birds.

Disease and Resistance

It has to be admitted that little is as yet understood about
some of the diseases to which game is subject, and that even
less is known of their remedies. But for certain ailments,
especially among pheasants, preventives and remedies are
known that can successfully and with conﬁdence be used at
any rate with hand-reared stock; and it is a few such treat-
ments that are set forth below.

It is quite a. different proposition to “get across” either
remedies or preventives to wild birds, especially to partridges.
Wild partridges cannot, like fowls or even hand-reared
pheasants, be medically treated in the usual sense: and
believing that prevention rather than cure is the best aim
to seek, we hold that prevention can best, and perhaps only,
be applied in practice by building up the stamina and resist—
ance of one’s birds so that disease, if encountered, will not
be fatal or seriously harmful and is less likely to be contracted
at all. In this connection we invite special attention to what

3

 




 

 

is said below on the subject of gapes. It is terribly prevalent
on rearing—ﬁelds today, and yet it is a disease against which
prevention can so easily and so successfully be applied.

In pursuance of our belief in the avoidance of disease by
building up resistance to it, we are establishing this month a
pathological station where for a number of years the nutri-
tion of both healthy and diseased birds will be closely studied.
A detailed announcement will be made shortly. In the
meantime, resistance can most certainly be increased if the
advice given in previous leaﬂets of this series is followed,
notably in the practice of regular winter feeding, the pro-
vision of grit and dusting shelters on shootings, and especially
in the use of cod-liver oil in food. Revised leaﬂets giving
more detailed information on these matters are about to be
issued.

One example may be given to show what the true inward-
ness of “resistance” might prove to be. lVlost partridges
carry within them a number of the strongyle worms that
cause “partridge disease.” When a bird has collected and is
accommodating about 500 of these worms its load is begin-
ning to become a critical one. A healthy bird might be
none or little the worse for carrying such a number, whereas
one less Virile might begin to weaken, certainly so if it picked
up another few hundred of the worms. Ultimately it might
succumb either to the disease itself, or to something else
(for instance, pneumonia) contracted as a result of its lowered
condition. Last year we received from Wales a partridge
that had been shot in the usual way and that to all appearances
was in good, though not ﬁrst-class, condition. It had been
sent to us in connection with some peculiarity in its plumage
markings. On examination it was found to contain no
fewer than 18,683 strongyle worms: yet such was the bird’s
resistance to partridge disease that this enormous load of
strongyles had not prevented it from living a normal life. It
is the nature and causes of these resistances, and a know-
ledge of how to produce them in partridges and pheasants,
that we intend to study at our new game research station.

4

0))

G)

 

.‘ ‘3,

 




9)

 

 

Disease Remedies

The treatments recommended below are for pheasants.
When used for partridges the dosages prescribed should in every
case be one-third only of those stated.

Gapes

In our experience, little is ever done to prevent gapes.
People seem for the most part content to hope that their
birds will not contract it, and it is only when it actually
appears that steps are taken against it. A more far-sighted
policy, of arming one’s birds against it from their very ﬁrst
day on the rearing-ﬁeld, is surely worth while.

An excellent preventive of gapes, in the form of Tincture
of Asafoetida, is known, and it is not unpalatable to the birds.
It should be mixed in the mash, in the proportion of half a
tablespoonful to the mash for 100 chicks. Directly the mash
has been made, and while it is still hot, poke a hole in the
centre of it with a ﬁnger and pour in the tincture. The bowl
should then immediately be covered over with a sack to
allow the asafoetida to percolate with the steam throughout
the mash. After twenty minutes, remix the mash and feed.

Alternatively, when birds are watered add a tablespoonful
of the tincture to every two gallons of water: but this method
of giving asafoetida is not so effective as the other, since
under certain conditions of weather birds do not need to use
water supplied, and moreover many keepers do not believe
in watering their pheasants.

If in spite of the above treatment gapes appears on the
rearing-ﬁeld, Chloroform should be used for infected birds.
Caution must be exercised in using it: it will kill the gape-
worms, but it will kill the birds also if overdoses are given
or if the treatment is too long continued.

Half an ounce of chloroform should be mixed with a pint
of linseed oil, and a tablespoonful of this concoction be well
mixed in with a bucket of mash. Directly this remedy is
found to have done its work of killing the gape-worms its use
must be stopped: and no more than the given dosage of chloroform

5

 




 

 

 

should be used. These two points are important. A good
procedure to follow is to examine carefully the state of the
worms in birds that have died, and when one is found in
which the worms are also dead, then discontinue the treat-
ment. Should a further outbreak occur, the same remedy
can be applied, in the same way, the amount of chloroform
given being on no account increased, or the birds will be

killed.

Coccidiosis

A very good remedy, for knowledge of which we are
indebted to Dr. W. R. Kerr of the Veterinary Research
Institute, Belfast, can be made up as follows: One part iodine
crystals (iodine resublimate), two parts potassium iodide,
ﬁfty parts water. To make a stock solution that will “keep”
and be ready for immediate use, add six tablespoonfuls of
this mixture to one quart of new milk and heat it in a stone
or glass jar until it turns white (not allowing it to boil).
This solution can be given to the chicks in drinking water
at the rate of one pint to one gallon of water, or it may be
mixed in the feed at the rate of three tablespoonfuls to every
100 coops of birds: three days’ use of the remedy should be
sufficient—it can be repeated if necessary. The above quanti-
ties can be doubled if the chicks have coccidiosis badly.

“Catechu” is also a good remedy for coccidiosis. Use
ten grains to a gallon of water for three days, then omit it for
two days, then use it again for another three days. On the
days between treatments mix cod-liver oil in the mash,
and keep a sharp look-out upon the droppings, as catechu
is very constipating.

Keepers need not be reminded to move their birds to fresh
ground directly they have got an outbreak of coccidiosis
under control.

Cramp

A good many remedies are known for cramp, including
some proprietary remedies made up by ﬁrms of game food

6

C}>

\\

‘,,//




makers and advertised in their catalogues and in the sporting
press. We have heard good reports of several of these pre-
parations, but the only one of which we have personal
experience and can therefore speak is supplied by Messrs.
James of Hungerford under the name “Rehtip.” We have
found Rehtip to be extremely effective.

Pneumonia

Port wine should be given for three or four days, in the
proportion of a wineglassful to the mash for every 100
birds. After this treatment add a little sulphate of iron
to the water, or to the mash, or to the water with which
the mash is made, using only enough to tinge the water
rust-colour. This will be found to be a useful tonic. The
protection of one’s birds against lice—the young birds
especially—by the provision of adequate dusting facilities
(see Advisory Leaﬂet No. 3) also helps them noticeably
against pneumonia.

We realised more than ever the importance of dust from an
experience on our partridge rearing-ﬁeld at Knebworth last
season, which was a very wet one. In spite of the care and
protection we gave our hand-reared partridge chicks some of
them became heavily infested with lice at about nine weeks
of age. As a result, some of them became actually anaemic,
and we noticed that it was these anaemic birds that contracted
pneumonia. On an estate where no dusting shelters are
provided many young wild partridges, we believe, must
similarly become anaemic and get pneumonia, really for want
of dusting: and this to our knowledge happened on many
estates last season where continued wet weather prevailed
at the time when the partridges were young.

“Sore Mouth”

This ailment (not to be confused with Roup) is not, as is
sometimes suppoSed, a condition due to cold weather, but is
the result of digestive trouble. A good remedy is to give the
birds water that has been just clouded with Friar’s Balsam.

7

 

 




 

 

Strongylosis (“Partridge Disease”)

Partridge rearing is not as yet very commonly practised,
and it is almost entirely wild stocks with which one has to
deal in combating “partridge disease.” At the present time
we know of no remedy for it, and of no preventive treatment
of a medicinal nature. We have little, therefore, that we can
add to the advice given in this and earlier leaﬂets indicating
that healthy and resistant stock will not easily succumb to
partridge disease, and that health and stamina can most
greatly be improved and maintained by simple ﬁeld methods
that every gamekeeper can apply. Therefore we emphasise
what we have already said. Grit—an ample supply, and of
the right shape, hardness, and size; winter-feeding long and
regularly continued, with a liberal amount of cod-liver oil
mixed into the feed; dusting facilities to give freedom from
lice: these are all a wonderful help to one’s birds. The
natural mortalities among partridges even in a normal year
are heavy, and in a bad year are almost incredibly heavy (a
leaﬂet giving some recorded ﬁgures will shortly be issued):
partridge disease is only one of the causes of these mortalities,
but we are convinced that by helping his partridges to increase
their stamina the keeper will help them to stand up not only to
partridge disease but to other diseases and diﬁiculties as well.

In. spite of the promise made in the opening paragraph of
this leaﬂet we will here give a very simple and very general
life-history of the strongyle worm, as a preface to the only
further suggestion for preventing the spread of partridge
disease that we can at the moment make. The strongyle
worm does not, like certain other internal parasites, multiply
in the body of the bird. It is picked up by the partridge off
the ground or off the stems and leaves of grasses and clovers,
etc., being then either in larval form or in the form of a
“cyst”—-a hard sheath enclosing the larva. Within the bird,
these larvae mature, become adult, lay their eggs, and then
die and are passed out with the droppings. The life of the
strongyle in the bird from ﬁrst to last is usually about six
weeks.

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

<0

The eggs are also expelled with the droppings and reach
the ground to become larvae, which for a time are capable
of movement (for a few feet, perhaps) before becoming
encysted. A new infection IS thus again on the land, ready
for birds to take up.

In other words, a partridge can only come to contain so
many strongyle worms by having picked up that number one
by one from the ground.

Clearly, a good time to deal with the strongyles is when
they are outside the bird. Whole areas cannot in practice be
disinfected, but at certain times of the year droppings can be.
A keeper knows where his coveys jug and can ﬁnd their
droppings; and a good disinfection of these droppings will
put an end to many sources of infection. If only half the
droppings from jugging coveys are found and heavily limed
the chances of the shoot will be enormously increased.
Similarly, when feed is put down near nests (a practice we
advocate) many droppings can be “killed” nearby that would
otherwise not be found at that time of year.

General

We have three general dodges to recommend, to be used as
a matter of routine for maintaining health.

The ﬁrst one is to lime thickly the front ground—bar of all
coops, replenishing every time the coop is moved. Liming
should be started after the seventh day and be continued till
the poults go to covert. The young birds get the lime on
their breasts and lower parts as they pass in and out of the
coops, and even the hen gets some beneﬁt.

The second dodge—an important and useful one—is to
provide at the entrance to every rearing-ﬁeld a shallow pan
containing a solution of Jeyes Fluid, putting a notice beside
the pan requesting everybody to dip their boots before they
enter the ﬁeld. The ﬂuid in the pan—a wide enamelled
basin is as good as anything-need only be deep enough
just to cover the soles of the boot. The introduction of

9

 




 

infection from outside the ﬁeld on the boots of visitors,
keepers, etc., will by this means be avoided.

Thirdly, permanganate of potash should habitually be used
in drinking-water. Only enough need be introduced to colour
the water to the tint of port wine. A Check upon the solution
not being unpalatably strong can be made by dipping a ﬁnger
in the water and tasting it: if it is not unpleasant to human
taste the birds will drink it.

One more general hint. It is, we are quite certain, a
badly mistaken policy to try and save a chick or two when a
serious infectious disease is even suspected, thereby risking
an outbreak that may run through the ﬁeld and lead to
perhaps really heavy losses. We believe in such cases in
killing instantly the weakly chick, the rest of the brood, and
the hen; burning them and the coop and burying the ashes;
and burning and liming the grass all round. Provided that
the coops have been well spaced, this should go far to
prevent any spread of infection.

IO

Q)

0?)








 

 

PRINTED IN ENGLAND
AT THE KYNOCH PRESS
BIRMINGHAM

321/43/537

0D

 




 




 




