ULAWS Monograph 4d .

. THE RABBIT MENACE
. i IN AUSTRALIA IN 1933 a
' and the warsr out

By DAVID C. STEAD

FORMERLY

Special Rabbit Menace Commissioner

TO THE

Government of New South Wales.

SYDNEY;
F. E. MOORE & Co. LTD.
December, 1932.

‘\
Reprinted in England by Wadsworth .ﬁ 00., The Rydal Press, Keighley, for

THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY
, 68, Torrington Square, London, W.C.I.

 




 

ULAWS MONOGRAPHS ON RABBIT CONTROL.

4a.~—~THE RABBIT PROBLEM IN AGRICULTURE (Revised to September
16, 1934; gratis) by Capt. W. H. Buckley, M.F.H. ‘

4b.——MAN VERSUS RABBIT (First edition May, 1932; second edition,
November 5, 1934, revised to February 5th, 1935: IS.) by A. H.
.B. Kirkman, F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P., Lond., F.Z.S.

4c.——REPORT ON A SOLUTION OF THE RABBIT PROBLEM: CYANIDE F UMI-
GATION (April, 1935: gratis) by Capt. W. H. Buckley, MWFH

4d.-——THE RABBIT MENACE IN AUSTRALIA IN 1933 AND THE WAY OUT
(Sydney, 1932, reprinted by ULAWS August, 1935; gratis)
by David G. Stead, formerly Special Rabbit—Menace Commis-
sioner to the Government of New South W ales.

4e.——-lVlODERN METHODS OF RABBIT CONTROL (in preparation; gratis)
compiled by Capt. C. W. Hume, M.C., B.Sc.

Reprint from The Western Mail and South W’ales News, February
7, 1935: “THE FOLLY OF RABBIT FARMING,” letter by Capt.
W. H. Buckley, M.F.H. (gratis). ’ A

Copies of publications marked ”gratis” will be sent on receipt of
a stamped foolscap envelope.

 

 

 

_._
" Ms»

 




 

 

.‘,.~

 

 

PREFACE TO ULAWS. REPRINTS.

\" The rabbit problem, which has been intensively studied for some
years past by the University of London Animal Welfare Society
(ULAWS), has recently’ attracted much attention in the public press.
The principles set forth by ULAWS, at ﬁrst received with hostility and
scepticism, have been veriﬁed in such measure as to leave no room for
doubt that they are fundamentally sound, and they are coming to be
generally accepted. They are strongly conﬁrmed by. Australian experi-
ence as set forth in the following pages; this experience is entirely con—
sonant with the results of Mr. Kirkman’s researches and of the pioneer
work done by Capt. W. H. Buckley in West Wales.

Mr. Stead’s report published in 1928 by the Department of Agri—
culture of New South Wales was extensively quoted in ULAWS Mono—
graph 4b, M an versus Rabbit. As soon, however, as the pamphlet
published by Mr. Stead in 1932 was brought to the attention of ULAWS
the Society realized that its graphic style and the wide knowledge and
experience embodied in it render it peculiarly suitable for setting at
rest any doubts that may still remain in the minds of British farmers.
At the same time, in View of its importance for British agriculture at the
present juncture, its wide distribution appeared to be a public service
which was due to the farmers among whom ULAWS has many friends.

The Society therefore applied at the London ofﬁces of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales for permission to make reprints, and they
desire to record their grateful thanks to the Ofﬁcial Secretary , Mr. J. W.
Ferguson, who promptly communicated direct with the Premier of New
South Wales and obtained the necessary permission by air mail and cable.
They are equally indebted to the author of the pamphlet , Mr. David G.
Stead, who has generously forgone all remuneration in respect of copies
distributed gratis. They have also to thank Messrs. George Monro, Ltd. ,
of Waltham Cross, for bringing the pamphlet to their notice, and’Messrs.
Wadsworth & Co. for carrying out the printing at express speed.

The Australian edition is illustrated with photographs that have
had to be omitted from the present reprints. These photographs chieﬂy
illustrate the importance of rabbit-proof fencing, and the great waste of
labour involved in methods of rabbit—control other than those advocated
in the following pages.

Readers Who desire further instructions or information relating to
rabbit—control are invited to apply at the following address:

The University of London Animal Welfare Society
at The University Union,
68, Torrington Square, W.C.I.
Augustgr, 1935.

 

 




 

 




 

4::

The Rabbit Menace in Australia in 1933 and
the Way Out.

By DAVID G. STEAD,

Formerly Special Rabbit Menace Commissioner to the
Government of New South Wales.

The year 1933 promises to be a memorable one in the history of
Australia’ sﬁght against the Rabbit Menace. For the pest has prospered
on every hand so amazingly during the last few years—and especially
during 1932—that it has now assumed vast proportions, and is threaten—
ing literally to engulf the nation’s most vital national industries. It
is clear that unless we immediately bestir ourselves, both collectively
and individually, and take action to protect ourselves against this ram-
pant menace , the whole countryside is doomed to disaster of such gigan-
tic proportions as to dwarf the present period of economic depression
into nothingness. N 0 one who is really familiar with the tragic position
as it stands to—day will think that I have exaggerated the case in the
foregoing words, and it is not too much to say that they should be shouted
with clarion voice throughout the length and breadth of the land, as a
warning and an urgent exhortation to be up and doing, to join hands,
and drive this great menace back from the lands which are the life of
Australia.

In the following pages I hope , while brieﬂy setting out the position ,
to indicate the lines to be followed not merely in making a successful
stand against the advancing horde, but so as to completely rid large
sections of the country of the rodent thief which is stealing and deﬁling
our pastures and our crops and generally impoverishing our means of
primary production as is no other agency.

The Great Invasion .

The writer has recently completed a tour of the principal parts of
Australia affected by the rabbit, and has made a particular study of
the present and prospective incidence of the pest wherever he has gone.

A rapidly mounting series of reports from all parts had already prepared

me for the worst, so to speak, and my personal investigations and con—
tacts showed me that , whether one was dealing with New South Wales,

or Southern Queensland, or South Australia, or Western Australia, the

dolorous story was the same, with but little variation; and every en—

quiry indicated that the Rabbit Menace had entered upon a startling

and highly dangerous phase of its existence in the farming lands of

Australia, and was aiming a blow at the very vitals of the man on the
land.

 




 

 

At the moment of writing, rabbits are multiplying in- myriads over
a really vast stretch of country. In many districts of New South Wales
alone there are already quite as many rabbits as at any time during the
most disastrous of rabbit invasions since the pest ﬁrst entered the State
from the south ﬁfty-ﬁve years ago! Relatively speaking, equally vast
increases are also apparent in Queensland, Victoria, South Australia
and Western Australia, while the permanently bad conditions in Tas—
mania have been also greatly increased.

On the whole, then, and making due allowance for sporadic ﬂaring—
out of the pest in more or less restricted areas on occasions in past years,
one can have no hesitation in stating that, taking Australia as a whole,
there is just as great an infestation as there ever has been, even during
the worst periods of the past. And this notwithstanding the lapse of
more than ﬁfty years of intensive campaigning against the animal—
though largely, as I shall show, with either obsolete methods, or the
careless application of modern methods of proved and known eradica—
tory value.

“Consequences Too Terrible to Think About.”

While it is hardly necessary to go to any length in proving my
contention as to the present position——in view of the large amount of
corroborative testimony on every hand—I, will just quote one or two
authorities in support, and to give particular point to my own conclu—
sions. Writing recently, the Stock Inspector of the Tamworth Pasture
Protection District, in New South Wales, said: “One hates to think
what is going to happen in. the immediate future unless something effec-
tive is done to reduce the numbers everywhere. The consequences,’ ’ he
writes, “will be too terrible to think about.” Yet, on the whole, this
district has done more consistently good work, under its very efﬁcient
and able Stock Inspectors, in restricting the activities of the rabbit pest,
than probably any other district of Australia~—excepting, perhaps, the
Federal Capital Territory at Canberra. That the district has not suc—
ceeded in keeping the pest in proper check may be laid at the door of
lack of co-ordination on the part of landholders generally, inﬂux of
rabbits from surrounding districts, and insufﬁcient utilisation of the
most modern methods of rabbit destruction coupled with the mainten-
ance of good fencing and rabbit-proof gates.

‘ ‘Landowners Facing Disaster .’ ’

Again within the last few days a further urgent cry comes from
Tamworth , Where the statement has been ofﬁcially made that the ‘ ‘land-
holders are facing disaster” unless the most stringent measures are taken
by everyone unitedly. Impaired health of stock and decreased produc~
tivity are already mentioned, and only at the outset of What looks like an
ordinary summer.

At the recent Settlers’ Conference, held in Sydney also, a delegate
said: “Rabbits are menacing the whole prosperity of New South Wales—-
the whole State is endangered.” At the last annual conference of Stock

6




Inspectors complaints came from every hard, not only as to the vast
increases of rabbits , but as to the lack of serious effort being put forward
unitedly by landholders to deal with the pest. While some constantly
put their shoulders to the wheel, others preferred to sit back to wait for
some drought or other to come along and decimate the rabbit—and,
incidentally, to wipe out most of their ﬂocks, which would be already
impoverished and greatly reduced in numbers by the depauperate or
blasted pastures produced by the rabbit swarm.

Less Rabbits, More Sheep.

Mr. W. P. Bluett, of Queanbeyan, who represented the graziers
at a Stock Inspectors’ conference , hit the nail right on the head when he
said: ‘ ‘There are two ways by which we can produce more wool: ﬁrstly,
to make the grass carry more sheep; and, secondly, to make our sheep
carry more wool. In the past 21 years we have found an improvement of
only two ounces of wool per sheep. We should be doing better than
that.” He concluded as follows: “Let us have more sheep and more
grass; but we cannot do that without fewer rabbits.” He contended that
even the ordinary stock of rabbits carried by the State, if removed , would '
be replaced by not less than an additional zo,ooo,ooo sheep. And this
without the added sheep that might be produced by the improvement of
pastures by other means. In my previous publications I have gone very
fully into this question of the added value of pastures by the removal of
the rabbit pest and so only mention it in passing here.

Cause of Extension of Rabbit Menace.

The immediate cause of the extension of the rabbit pest through-
out Australia, at the present moment, is to be found in the succession
of lush seasons experienced in many parts during some years past.
Once again history has repeated itself, and, as it has before, in times of
good and plentiful pasturages , when many landholders have imagined—as
I have heard it said—that there was ‘ ‘enough feed for the rabbits and the
sheep, too.” That sort of easy belief has landed Australia in untold
trouble and immense losses in the past, and in the present - emer-
gency we must take the lesson severely to heart and wake up to the
really dangerous position with which we are faced.

Coupled with the favourable seasons has been a most unfortunate
growing laxity as regards “the ﬁght at the fence.” In this connection
my recent investigations indicate that the position has not materially
altered in any part of Australia since I presented my major report to
Government, and in the course of which I pointed out the manifold
weaknesses of the so-called rabbit-proof fences throughout the country.
Imperfections in construction were and are very common, maintenance is
faulty, even where that is readily possible , while unprotected post stays
and badly constructed and imperfectly hung gates are quite commonly
to be met with. This applies to each State and not particularly to New
South Wales. I noted it particularly, recently, in the south-east
of South Australia, where all sorts of reasons but the right ones were
being freely given to account for the great increase of the pest.

7

 

 




 

The Problem of the Gates.

This apathy, or worse, on the part of some landholders throws a
great and undue weight of responsibility upon the shoulders of a few care-
ful men, who are unremitting in their labours—both as regards the main-
tenance of fence and gates, and use of modern fumigants for eradication
work—in each district; for they have to be perpetually destroying the
other fellows’ rabbits. But added to all this, latterly, has been a very
great and growing evil in the shape of the “station car ramp”——which
must surely have been conceived by some station owner in a ﬁt of irony.
It is hard to speak calmly of any such contrivance, furnishing the wide
open door to the pest to walk right in after you have spent hundreds——
perhaps thousands—in protecting the run with miles of netted fence.

The station owner must not get the impression that I would make
light of his difﬁculties. They are too real to do that. Yet, obviously,
when one has to “throw everything in” to a ﬁght such as that with the
rabbit, then nothing must be left undone that will make for ultimate
Victory. This particularly applies to what we might well call the gate
problem. I have personally opened some thousands of, gates on netted
runs in various parts of Australia (I may say that I closed them again!)
and found less than one per cent of them to be rabbit—proof , even though
netted. I, have dwelt in detail upon this important matter in previous
publications and only mention this fact here by the way, because I pro-
pose to show, in the course of my remarks in the present brochure, that,
given the correct conditions for attack, the question of ridding any area
of land of rabbits and of maintaining it in that rabbit-free condition is
not an insoluble one. And certainly the ﬁrst step towards the economical
solution of the problem—whether by an individual settler or by a group
working in concert—is this deﬁnite settling of bounds by the really
rabbit-proof fence and gates. '

Methods; Ancient and Modern.

After studying the incidence of the rabbit menace for many years, I
have observed one fact connected with measures for destruction of the
rabbit that was particularly noteworthy. ‘ On every occasion of sudden
mcrease of the pest———whether general or in any one particular district——
every sort of antiquated method for rabbit destruction has been trotted out
in all its worn and musty habiliments and has been paraded before the
gaze of the worried primary producer in an attempt to persuade him that
it was ‘ ‘the one and only’ ’——the ‘ ‘good old system that never failed.’ ’
and so on.

Some of these methods have been quite good, in their time. That
is to say, they are truly lethal agents of a sort. Others, again are of the
fantastic sort—the ‘ ‘sledge-hammer-to-crack—a—nut’ ’ kind. Many, how-
ever , are quite useless or almost so, besides being wasteful of man power ,
or crude, or heavy to handle, or require ﬁre—always a dangerous thing
to carry into the ﬁeld, even if the device could be proved to be worthy of
it.

During the course of my investigation while acting as a Special

8

,.. 3w




die-vase

 

Commissioner to the Government, it became my duty to make a close
enquiry into all sorts of imaginable (many unimaginable) forms of gear
for rabbit destruction. In many cases the most extravagant claims were
made for contraptions which were worse than useless—literally so, be—
cause they would cause much waste of time, money and energy on the
part of the smaller or less experienced settlers without adequate results.
In this place I need not touch upon these things in detail, but I feel that
I should mention some of them in view of the danger of inexperienced
persons being misled—whether deliberately or not hardly matters here—
by the foolish and extravagant claims being made at the present moment .
For at no time in the history of rabbit destruction in Australia were these
various inventions more in evidence than just now, with the rabbit pest
literally ‘ ‘ worrying the soul-cases ’ ’ out of most of our primary producers.

First Requirements in Rabbit Eradication.

Three things are requisite in a really successful method of eradica—
tion of the rabbit pest: (I) The Greatest Kill Possible, with (2) The Least
Possible Use of Time and Energy, and (3) The Lowest Cost. These
three are all wrapped up together, too; and it is impossible altogether to
separate them. It is necessary to impress these things on the reader,
however, for so many are blinded—bamboozled, I would like to call it—
by the fact that such-and-such poison is “very deadly’ ’ or such-and-such
a gas or fume “ if inhaled’ ’ is “certain death.’ ’ If all that was nec—
essary were to ﬁnd such poisons or fume—producing agents, then the era-
dication of the rabbit would be simplicity itself. That is not the difﬁ-
culty, however. The problem for instance, in the case of poisons, has
been not merely to bring the bait under the notice of the rabbit but to
make sure that the wily animal would take it———or even could take it
while it was fresh enough to be certain to kill. Similarly with fumes or
poisonous gases; the difﬁculty is not that one does not know of many very
deadly poison-gas producing agents, but that it may not be physically
or economically possible to bring rabbit and gas into such contact as will
satisfy the three requisites mentioned by me above.

Obsolete Methods of Capture or Killing.

One does not get very far into an investigation of the methods of
eradicating rabbits—whether direct killing or trapping—without dis—
covering that an artiﬁcial signiﬁcance has been given to certain methods ,
because of their close connection with some trade arising out of the
rabbit. Until recently, the great driving force in bringing about the
widespread use of traps was the good price being obtained for carcases
and skins. While trapping (I refer principally to the spring traps or
gins) might be quite an effective means of catching a large number of
rabbits under certain conditions, as a means of ridding any large section
of country of the rabbit pest it is wasteful of man power, and therefore
relatively costly and economically unsound. In the end—at least as it
has been practised—it never disposes of the pest, but leaves behind a suﬁ‘ic-
ient breeding stock to ensure the continuity of species. Frequently, in fact

9

 




 

 

it greatly aids the rabbit by preventing it from quickly overstocking an
area against itself. This makes for a greater potency in those that are
left, and because they themselves have not destroyed the available food
supply as quickly as they might have, enables them to hang on and tide
over the effects of a bad season.

Poison Cart a Delusion.

Taking into consideration my previously enunciated requisites of
Kill, Time and Cost, I consider that the poison cart is truly ‘ ‘a delusion
and a snare . ’ ’ Further, because it gives frequently a feeling of security,
it is an actual danger. At best it is a sledge hammer to crack a nut——
considering the relatively small amount of eradication work that it
accomplishes for its total cost of operation over a number of years—
without considering the well-known menace to stock and useful bird life
that the poison pellets are.

In what I may call the pre—Cyanogas days a friend of mine used the
poison cart for twenty years. Regularly, round and round the carts
went, year after year on their fake work, making a tremendous showing
of doing—practically nothing! I mean practically nothing when it
came to a showdown as to ultimate achievement. There the pest
remained, absolutely secure, with just a trimming taken off now and
then and an average of at least seventy-ﬁve per cent of the baits through-
out the whole period wasted as they lay in or on the ground, undisturbed!

Use of Strychnine.

Rabbiters, trapping for the skins alone, have brought the use of
strychnine to such a stage as was little dreamed of in the early days of
its use. This applies especially to compounds like strychnine and thistle
root, strychnine and jam, etc. The reason is well known, and is, as one
man has put it to me, that the strychninised baits are ‘ ‘very fatal” and
practically ‘ ‘ drop the rabbits in their tracks.” Yet this method is not
only uneconomical industrially but never reaches the rabbits’ home
quite effectively. It is safe to say, indeed, that no large area has ever
been completely cleaned out by this one method, even where large
slaughter has resulted; apart altogether from the nuisance created by the
dead carcases, the danger from the poison still lying in those carcases and
the increase in the blowﬂy pest.

Fumigation Greatly Misunderstood.

The idea of fumigating or gassing rabbits as they lay in their burrows
has been understood right from the beginning of killing operations in
Australia. It has also been greatly favoured by many, chieﬂy because
it seemed so simple. Actually, by the use of modern means, it is simple;
but as practised in the past by many people—and, I regret to say, by
some at the present moment—it was and is the very reverse of simple.
And again that is because my three requisites of Kill, Time and Cost are
not sufﬁciently considered. To-day for instance, ‘ ‘smoking out’ ’ and
many other of the crudest methods have taken a hold once again.
Sulphur fumes are being poured in without regard to the effort entailed
or the small results obtained. Motor cars are being harnessed to the

IQ

 




burrows and the exhaust gases driven in, in a clumsy attempt to do what
may be done very effectively with the ready and proper means waiting
within reach of everybody’s hand. And every sort of home—made
appliance for making smoke or fumes is being called into requisition by
many landholders in a vain attempt to stop the onward rush of a pest
that knows “every trick” and cannot be stopped except by properly
organised scientiﬁc means of eradication.

The average primary producer is a practical sort of chap who likes
to call a spade a spade, and he likes straight talk, without any humbug.
I hope he will forgive me , therefore , when I say that there are in Australia
some thousands of his brethren who are absolutely fooling away their
efforts, their time and their money, by their stupid or unwise messing
about with all kinds of half measures in meeting the rabbit onslaught.
One wonders indeed if they do realise that the wolf is not only at the door, ~
it is right bang inside and literally chewing up his stock nncler his very
nose. If a farmer were to see his neighbour tilling his ground with the
good old wooden plough—at least it was good once—he might be justiﬁed
in thinking that his neighbour was either a fool or at least a bit ‘ ‘nutty’ ’
and that is just the way I feel when I see the way some people are ﬂirting
with the rabbit menace.

Stove Pipe Fumigators.

Among the weird creations which are ﬁnding a sporadic sale among
some small settlers, is the Stove Pipe Smoker or Fumigator. During
the course of my ﬁeld investigations I have come across several of these.
In one instance , in the New England district of New South Wales , I found
a cocky farmer in the midst of the laborious operation of attempting to
smoke out a small warren with one of these archaic contrivances—a piece
of black iron stove pipe closed at one end, and over which another simi-
lar piece moved up and down in lunger fashion. The container was ﬁlled
with smouldering leaves, and the crude mixture of smoke and carbon
monoxide resulting from the uneven and spasmodic combustion of these
leaves was the lethal agent which (in theory anyway) was to destroy
the rabbits in the warren. The farmer was sweating at his work, which
had then engaged him the better part of one working day—a really ex-

. hausting job , too.

This particular warren, it appeared, had given him quite a lot of
trouble from time to time, and an itinerant seller of the ancient device had
persuaded him that it would do the trick for him. He had already used
it on a number of occasion and actually killed some rabbits with it; but
at what a cost! I asked this farmer if he had stopped to think what this
method of rabbit killing was costing him. He said he had, but as the
burrows were so deep he was unable to dig out, and thought he would
“give the old bellows a ﬂy.” He freely admitted, however, that he
hadn’t “Buckley’s chance”* of really controlling the rabbits and that
they were fast “spreading on him.” Yet he was blindly content to go
on using a method—extremely wasteful of time and labour and of neg-
ligible result—that ought to be as dead as the Dodo. .

* Not our Buckley; his luck is usually good . Editor, ULAWS .
II

 

 




 

Other Smoke Fumigators .

A number of other smoke producers are being readily sold just now,
chieﬂy among the smaller landholders, and while some of them do better
work than the stove pipe , they are all sold rather on the appeal that they
make to the unthinking to use up waste litter, than on their killing
power. A good many of these have been sold in Victoria and South
Australia, but as far as any permanent check on the rabbit menace goes
they might as well have never been made.

Sulphur Fumigators .

Many of the old fumigators for rabbit destruction employed fumes
obtained from the combustion of sulphur—chieﬂy sulphur dioxide.
«There was quite an extensive use for sulphur employed in this manner
until the carbon bisulphide came so much into vogue that the use of
sulphur fell away and then almost disappeared. The sulphur was dis-
continued not so much because it was altogether ineffective but because
the ‘ ‘carbon’ ’——as then used on cotton waste, inserted into the mouth of
the burrow—dispensed with the use of a fumigating machine. Yet
even so a few people have been using this relatively inferior medium right
right up to the present ; and every now and then one hears of some remark-
able invention for pumping sulphur fumes into rabbit burrows, which
is going to put the rabbit pest out of existence in short order!

Don’t Take Fire into the Paddock.

There is another reason for condemning all such outﬁts as the sulphur
and smoke fumigators , and that is the danger of taking ﬁre in any shape
or form into the ﬁeld. This reason, though a very important one for
the safety of the farm , of course , is only a minor reason when the efﬁcacy
of such futile, or at least inutile, things has to be considered.

Carbon Monoxide Much Over -rated.

Without the users of the more primitive types of fumigators being
aware of it, they all, no doubt, get a certain amount of help in their
operations by the production of that deadly gas, carbon monoxide (CO),
present in the fumes coming from any ﬁre at all. And this naturally
brings me to a. discussion of the question of the use of carbon monoxide,
deliberately produced , as a killing agent. Far too much has been heard
of this in the last few years. To some extent this is due to the undue
prominence given by the defunct Development and Migration Com—
mission between four and ﬁve years ago to the value of carbon monoxide
gas in rabbit destruction. In View of the danger that might result from
an important public body lending the weight of its support without
having made the most searching investigation into the comparative
value of various processes—and there being no evidence at hand that
there had been any such investigation—I took steps in 1929 to publicly
point out the error of that Commission , both through the Press and to the
Commission itself.

12

 

 




 

 

It goes almost without saying, of course, that this gas is highly
lethal, where it can be brought into actual contact with any animal
organism; the difﬁculty, however, in dealing with rabbits is that they
live under all sorts of conditions , in most of which no machine employing
carbon monxide may be economically used. Indeed, in many places it
is quite impracticable to use such. In large open areas in which a
wheeled vehicle may be used, and where the ground surface has been
generally cleared up , a machine using carbon monoxide may be used with
some effect, but even under such extremely favourable circumstances I
consider that such an outﬁt is truly in the nature of a sledge hammer to
crack a nut , for the same work could be done far more economically with a
one—man outﬁt using Cyanogas. Further, there is no evidence that even
under the very best of circumstances the kill is anything like as satis—
factory as that achieved with a one—man Cyanogas apparatus.

“Monoxide” Does Not Fill the Bill.

In an article published in the “Sydney Morning Herald” of July
15 , 1929 , I pointed out some of the facts just mentioned. As this article
dealt rather fully with the subject and answered most of the arguments
applied in support of the monoxide outﬁts, I will here extract a few
further points of importance:

‘ ‘The worst areas from which rabbits are to be exterminated are not
the open places, but the rough rocky stretches of ridge or mountain
country. These are the permanent strongholds whence the rabbits
emerge, now and again, to re-stock areas from which they have been
previously cleared. Here we ﬁnd a multitude of small warrens, short
burrows, hollows under tree stumps, rock crevices, and so on. Then
there are the steep banks of creeks, hollow logs, small excavations,
which can hardly be digniﬁed by the name of burrows, under stones, etc.
These situations are found everywhere in certain vast strips of country
running through two—thirds of the length of Eastern Australia. In such
places the carbon monoxide outﬁt is practically unusable.

“In some of our out-back country open stretches, considerable
execution has been done with one form of carbon monoxide plant on four
wheels. But the same work could have been done even in these favour—
able circumstances with less cost and far less labour—surely a most
important considerat ion—with one man using the Cyanogas fumigant .”

Clearing Up and Digging Out Unnecessary!

This heading will look almost like a heresy to many, but experience
will fully justify it. Great labour is frequently gone to in attempting
to dig out from under rocks or stumps or to cut a rabbit out of a log,
when a puff or two of Cyanogas would settle those rabbits in a few moments
by using only a small blower. The same applies to the eradication of
isolated rabbits, or colonies of such, on country in which there is a lot of
tree refuse (and I can bear witness to the existence of hundreds of square
miles of such country in the State of New South Wales and Southern
Queensland alone). N o preliminary cleaning up is necessary, say, to

13

 

 




 

 

 

allow of the passage of a Wheeled vehicle, as in the use of the poison cart
or the large CO outﬁts. 4

There are several one man CO machines, but they are all relatively
weighty, difﬁcult to handle, require in any wide use the transport of
fuel—for there are really vast areas in this country where one cannot
pick .up ”small blocks of wood or coke” !——while, in addition, there is
my old objection to carrying ﬁre into the paddock.

In short, in comparison with the modern Cyanogas, I con-
sider that no known apparatus employing CO can compare either for
efﬁciency or economy of cost or of men. I say this, after carefully
investigating every known method of fumigation, during a long experi-
ence of the rabbit , and more particularly during my intensive investiga-
tions while acting for the Government as Special Commissioner enquiring
into the rabbit menace. Understand that I do not minimise the lethal
character of Carbon Monoxide, and if it could be carried to the burrow
or warren as readily as the Cyanogas dust—or in such a dust ‘ ‘vehicle” I
mean, so that large volumes of the deadly gas could be carried with ease
and safety in a small tin, then it would seriously rival the Cyanogas.

But it cannot.

“Good Old Carbon.”

Needless to say the expression here used is not my own. Indeed,
it is a truth that most of the so—called ‘ ‘good old’ ’ things are not quite
so good on a nearer acquaintance. But Carbon Bisulphide is often
familiarly spoken of as good old Carbon , and quite a number of old hands ,
of the ultra-conservative sort , are still prepared to swear by their ancient
companion. If is therefore necessary to make more than a passing refer—
ence to the subject here. . Notwithstanding the great amount of use to
which this substance has been put in the past, and the good work fre-
quently done with its aid, its ﬁeld of utility has been strictly limited by
weather, climate, and types of environment of the rabbit burrows, as
well as the structure of the burrows themselves. For small warrens and
burrows with the minimum of “dead” areas it was pretty effective.
Indeed, of all the older fumigants, Carbon Bisulphide stands practically
alone, both for its lethal value and economy of handling. But that
statement is strictly relative, and I wish to Specially impress the word
“older” on the reader. In the hands of thoroughly experienced men
and in a suitable environment, it became a very potent weapon; but the
difﬁculty, inconvenience and even danger of carrying it about promiscu-
ously , always militated against its general use—altogether apart from its
restricted use even in the best hands.

‘ ‘Carbon’ ’ Cannot Stand Against Cyanogas .

After I ﬁrst published the results of my investigation into the use of
Carbon Bisulphide , a rather unworthy veiled attack was made upon me,
in the course of advertising, by some very estimable persons whose
business it was to deal, incidentally, in “Carbon” outﬁts. In a reply
which I made at the time (January, 1930), I pointed out that any views
expressed were the result of long experience and the intensive oﬁicial

I4

 

 

 




 

 

 

investigation already referred to, that they were not so many ex parte
statements , but were (in my ofﬁcial reports) , strongly entrenched behind
much evidence of ofﬁcials, Rabbit Inspectors, Pastures Protection
Boards, Stock Inspectors and pastoralists. Further, I pointed out that
I had given the old Carbon a very good run in my full report, but that I
was forced to conclude as follows: ‘

“ From a survey of the preceding pages it will be gathered that there-
is much to be said for the use of Carbon Bisulphide as a fumigating
agent. I t will he impossible, however, for it to ‘stand nt’ in the face of the
newer fumigant, Cyanogas Calcium Cyanide. There is no doubt that the
latter can do everything which Carbon Bisulphide can do, and far more,
at a cost much below that of using the Bisulphide under the most favour-
able circumstances.”

Later on I stated that however thankful we might have been for the.
Carbon in the pre—Cyanogas days, there could be little point in using it
now; for, inasmuch as Cobb ’s coaches were really excellent in their time ,
very few of my farmer friends would be prepared to give up the modern
motor car, and go back to the days when we simply loitered across the
country! I suggested that the comparison between the best of the older
fumigants and the new one was something like that!

“Most Alluring” but a “Dismal Failure.”

From among the evidence of experienced persons also I quoted one
of the Stock Inspectors who had studied the use of Carbon Bisulphide in
many districts over a long period of time, and this is what he said, in
short: It is “ a most alluring method,’ ’ but it must be ‘ ‘used with great
caution.” Continuing, he said, ‘ ‘There is no method that gives greater
promise and that in the end proves a more dismal failnre. ’ ’ And remember
that this opinion was given after the old fumigant had been given forty
years of use in New South Wales alone! I shall be dealing with
Cyanogas directly, but in this place I feel that I should mention that
had the Cyanogas been available at the beginning of the ﬁght against the
rabbit in Australia, instead of the Carbon, there would hardly have been
a live rabbit in Australia to-day——at least in a wild condition.

Cyanogas Meets Every Condition.

In the published abridgment of my General Report on the Rabbit
Menace one notices the following references to Cyanogas:

Page II .———“Calcium Cyanide, also known as Cyanogas, has only
come into use as a fumigant for rabbit burrows since 1924. In that
time it has come rapidly to the fore. It is considered to be far and
away the best thing that has been so far evolved for the destruction of
rabbits in all mixed country, and probably even in the wide open areas
of the far west.” .

Page I3 .—Dealing with the cost of rabbit destruction by various
methods, I pointed out that there was no doubt that the new fumigant,
Cyanogas, was by far the cheapest and most satisfactory killing agent
yet produced. -

IS

 

 

 

 




 

 

Page 64 .——“The advent of this substance (Cyanogas) is regarded
as the most important event in the whole history of rabbit extermina-
tion.’ ’

Page 65 .———It is emphasised that “While Cyanogas is so deadly it
is perfectly safe to handle, and, unlike alkaloid poisons, within a short
time after being laid, becomes innocuous.’ ’

Page 66 .—Reference is made to the successful use of Cyanogas
by various Pastures Protection Boards. In the Grafton district Cyanogas
was considered to be ‘ ‘better than a Rabbit Inspector.’ ’ The N arrabri
Board use it freely on Stock routes, travelling stock reserves, etc., and
ﬁnd it very effective and inexpensive. In the Tamworth district it has
been used to a very large extent on the routes and the reserves, as well as
by landholders. One member of the Board who had used “everything
under the sun ’ ’ found that there was ‘ ‘ nothing like it.’ ’

One feature of the work of rabbit destruction on roads, stock routes
and travelling stock reserves that immediately brought Cyanogas into
favourable recognition by Boards, Stock Inspectors, Rabbit Inspectors,
Local Government ofﬁcials, and large holders of rough or ‘ ‘dirty’ ’
country, is the ability to carry out wholesale destruction without the
necessity for cleaning up the ground surface of the general debris which
encumbers so many properties in a large section of the country. This
immediately simpliﬁes and cheapens the work of destruction in a way not
attained by any other method.

Low Cost of Cyanogassing.

Investigation indicates that exact detailed accounts are seldom kept
by farmers or graziers in their rabbit destruction work. Frequently, of
course, it is almost impracticable to do this, because the men employed
do so many other things about the holding. Where the speciﬁc work of
rabbit eradication is done on a largescale, however, it should not be
difﬁcult to keep a close cost record; and sometimes this is done. Yet,
even in these instances, it is not always possible to conﬁne the work to
one or two heads of expenditure. Even where one principal method is
used, there are nearly always subsidiary operations being run simultane—
ously; while in addition are costs of material, fencing, netting and
overhead charges. The latter are not, generally, included in making up
the costs, so that where total costs are furnished they need to be very
closely examined to see if some essential item has not been omitted.
Speaking generally, my own investigations over a wide area have
revealed that few men giving the cost or eradication, on an acreage basis,
furnished the whole cost, including the netting of fences and overhead.

I am constrained to mention this here, because one ﬁnds the most
extraordinary differences when costs are stated by various people; and
this is due to a lack of standard of costing as much as to the comparison
of methods.

But if we presume that the fences and gates are in order and our
costing is only to apply to the method—that is, time occupied not only
in one operation, but in the complete clearing out of the rabbits on the
whole of a property—and the costs of material or appliances, then the

16




‘1 "‘ ”\‘w

“Cyanogassing” method wins every time. In my previous references
in this paper I have dwelt strongly on the important matter of ‘ ‘Kill,
Time and Cost,” and I would ask the reader to read the present section
along with those others.

A friend, who has an area of about I6 ,ooo acres, started to work on a
methodical clearing out of the whole of his run. After attending to his
fences—and, particularly, his gates and ‘ ‘water escapes’ ’—-he made
some hundreds of wire netting traps and, after the expenditure of an
immense amount of labour, he cleared the pest out. Just as he was
ﬁnishing , Cyanogas came into our knowledge. This man kept (and keeps)
very accurate accounts. He told me that the work cost him 3/6 an acre
for labour alone. Cost of labour then was lower than to-day. Assuming
that his cost by such a method would be at least 4/6 to—day, then his bill
would be £3,600. Had Cyanogas come to his aid in time, he could have
done the whole job, including cost of labour and material, for a sum not
exceeding 7{600, or 9d. an acre! This was a difﬁcult place to deal with
by any other method than Cyanogas, but just the sort of place that
Cyanogas rejoices in—a badly infested area, with many warrens on river
banks, and much litter.

Alongside this man was another who started out to completely dig
out, but he found this was going to cost him 12/6 an acre for labour, so
he gave up in disgust. A very interesting case, which I have mentioned
in my ofﬁcial reports, was that of Mr. Roper’s sons at Binnaway (Mr.
Roper was Under-Secretary for Lands) . As the area was of comparatively
small size and similar to many such where great expenditure has been
made fruitlessly in the past, it is well worthy of mention. When the
land was taken up it was heavily timbered and literally swarming with
rabbits. I cannot give full details here, but, after a preliminary drive,
following upon complete netting, the “killing” work of rabbit eradica-
tion was started on. Practically every recognised method was tried; but
let me give Mr. Roper’s own words :—

“Tried ploughing out, trapping and digging out. Cost prohibitive
and failures. Tried ‘Carbon ’——ineffective and costly. Steel trapping
proved worse than nothing.” Despite all the methods used by lusty
young men, who were real triers, the rabbits continued to play havoc.
They then trod in and punched in the openings of the warrens and
fumigated with Cyanogas. The whole area of 230 acres was com-
pletely and successfully treated with one ten -pound tin of Cyano -
gas! Only on rare occasions was a burrow re-opened (from the outside)
after treatment and “in less than a week there was not one burrow open,
nor a single rabbit in the area.’ ’

Some of my records show as low as 4d. per acre for badly infested
large runs, but space forbids my giving further details here.

Cyanogas Highly ‘ ‘ Diffusive . ’ ’

Apart altogether from convenience or safety of handling, the
greatest difﬁculty experienced in rabbit eradication in the past , and until
the advent of Cyanogas, was to get a fumigant which would penetrate
with full lethal effect to every part of a burrow, crevice or warren.

I7

 

 

 




 

 

 

Sometimes the gas was of a sort which was heavier than air, sometimes
lighter than air, or sometimes too readily absorbed by the earth itself.
If too heavy, then the gas sank to the lower levels and stopped there,
while allowing the majority of the rabbits to escape. If too light it left
the deep burrows, or the parts below the crown, untouched.

On the other hand, even the very ﬁrst tests with only hand-applied
‘Calcium Cyanide Flake and Dust speedily indicated that here was a
diffusive gas. And When the dust began to be used with blowers it was
seen that in its highly diffusive and penetrative character the gas evolved
from the Cyanogas dust was quite unequalled. This really cannot be too
highly extolled or emphasised, for it is the main secret of the utility of
the Cyanogas as the king of rabbit-killing agents. Whether the rabbits
were six feet underground, or in ‘ ‘breeding-burrow’ ’ offshoots, or away
up in the crown of some extensive warren system, a subsequent digging
out revealed that they were all dead! And as the men handling the
fumigant became more experienced it was found that the most deadly
execution could be wrought with surprisingly small amounts.

During the succeeding years after the ﬁrst experiments had brought
Cyanogas under notice its use rapidly spread, until to—day it is un-
doubtedly recognised by those who have ﬁrst—hand information as to its
use as being the only fumigant worthy of economic consideration.
Indeed, I must re—assert what I have before stated, namely, if there were
no other method of rabbit killing in vogue, and Cyanogas were to be Used
to its full capacity, the pest would receive its ﬁnal deathblow in many
parts of the country, and could then be readily and economically kept
out of at least the most productive parts of Australia, while being kept
in subjection elsewhere.

TSkin Collectors Increase Pest.

Here I would again emphasise a point frequently made by me
publicly and in essays on this subject: that the recrudescence in use of
certain obsolete methods of rabbit destruction in recent times was not
because of their general effectiveness, but purely because they helped the
skin collector. If you want to get rid of your rabbits you will use the best
means regardless of the price of rabbit skins or carcases. I specially
commend this point to the notice of many large holders of land, or those
whose other business obliges them to leave the work of rabbit destruction
under the eyes of others. They will very often ﬁnd that the cause of the
persistence of the pest—where fences are in order, of course—is that Jack
or Tom or Bill, who are actually in charge of the ﬁeld work, will not use
(Cyanogas, because they thus very effectively kill the lot of the animals
present in their burrows, where they cannot be got without digging out.

In many places the change to Cyanogas was made after many years
of comparatively ineffective use of the poison cart. In the absence of
anything better one might excuse the poison cart, but for sheer feebleness
and economic wastefulness it would be difﬁcult to imagine a more glaring
(example. Therefore it is not really so much of a compliment to Cynagas
as one actually implies when he says that the change over to the modern
means has been accompanied often by really startling results; rabbits

18

..7_‘




melting away at one-twentieth part of the cost , and without the necessity
of cleaning up the surface wrack, as before pointed out—and as is

absolutely necessary before the poison cart can ever be run in on the
ground.

Conservatism a Stumbling Block.

Sometimes a slowness to take advantage of the all round utility of
Cyanogas is due, not to the absence of the rabbit-skin perquisites, but to
a cussed kind of conservatism—which we all have to some extent.
Having known certain “good old” methods for donkeys’ years, many
ﬁnd it difﬁcult to adapt themselves to a new idea. The old poison cart
is in the shed, and ‘ ‘we might as well use it ’ ’ ; the ‘ ‘ carbon’ ’ outﬁt is on
the run and the men understand it , so ‘ ‘ we might as well use that.’ ’ The
very apparent deadliness of Cyanogas also produces in some people a
certain amount of fear as to the consequences to themselves; but this is
quite unwarranted—there is absolutely no danger to any ordinarily
careful person. The strange thing, though, is that these same men will
handle strychnine and arsenic as though they were So much ﬂour—
occasionally, of course, with fatal results, whereas uoue such are recorded
from the use of Cyanogas.

Altogether apart from the intrinsic effectiveness, I have found that
inevitably where a man has become used to the Cyanogas dust blower he
ﬁnds the work of eradication by this means very simple indeed, and soon
carries on from burrow to burrow in a calm, matter-‘of—fact sort of way,
getting through a largeptract of land in a short space of time. Once a
man has become expert at the work, also, his use of the material itself is
very economical, and he learns how to make every puff of dust do its

deadly work. There is literally ‘ ‘death to the rabbit in every puff, ’ ’
‘ if properly used.

Back Blowing of Dust.

At ﬁrst there is a tendency to waste the material (because it does not
seem possible that so little will sufﬁce), and short burrows, leading
nowhere, are given as large a dose as others of sixty or seventy feet in
length; but experience of a few warrens soon gets over this difﬁculty,
and six, ten, or twenty puffs are given according to indications. The
back blowing of dust from short burrows, or rabbits’ “trial—holes,” is
very useful in this connection, and one may very soon tell the approxim-
ate depth of these after giving a puff or two. Short occupied burrows
are often to be found in the rocky areas of the mountainous parts, where
for many years the rabbit has practically deﬁed all efforts at extermina-
tion. In such locations the Cyanogas dust shows to particular advantage.
I have seen many such places that were quite impossible to deal with by
any of the older methods, but which yielded readily to the blower.

Rock crevices, caves and such like, which, in many places, have been
a perpetual menace to neighbouring lands because of the harbourage
they offered for the rabbit colonies, and which were a constant thorn in
the side of the landholder in our most ‘ ‘difﬁcult” country, need no
longer be the terror that they have been. Such difﬁcult country is to be

I9

 

 

 

 

 




 

found commonly in the following Pastures Protection Districts in New
South Wales: Armidale, Bathurst, Berrima—Picton,~Bombala, Cooma,
Denman and Upper Hunter, Eden-Moruya, Glen Innes, Gloucester,
Gundagai, Inverell, Merriwa, Tamworth, Tenterﬁeld and Yass. In.
Victoria such areas are chieﬂy in the eastern parts; in Queensland in the
south—east and in Western Australia in the south—west. Some of the
other districts of New South Wales have also a percentage of this type
of country—for instance, Albury, Braidwood, Goulbum, Grafton,
Hume (Holbrook), Kiama, Singleton and Young. Much of Tasmania
contains this type of country also.

“Cyanogassing” Rabbits on Unfenced Country.

I have emphasised in many places the necessity for attention to the
fences and gates, but in some sections of the country it is very costly or
impossible to maintain fences in good condition, or to render them
effective, because of drifting sand, dust, weeds, etc. But even here the
Cyanogas blower is, I am convinced from actual observation, the land-
holders’ only practical help. On many of our large far-western holdings
where rabbits are allowed to ﬂourish “like the green bay tree” in times
of good pasturage, it would pay to go over the run continually with one-
man Cyanogas outﬁts instead of ‘ complacently saying that there is
‘ ‘enough feed for the rabbits and the sheep too.” This is the develop-
mental‘period when the swarm is just getting ready for a grand invasion
of the inner country as the dry season approaches, and after the best of
the western pastures have already been used up in the process of building
up the new swarm.

This complacency referred to by me, and which is one of the most
fatal characteristics of some of our western men, has frequently been the
cause of the development of mighty new invasions of country from which
the rabbit has practically been eradicated. I have referred publicly to a
holding in the Cobar district which was typical. Here, in the midst of
plenty, was a thriving young colony of rabbits. The boss, looking round
and viewing the ﬁne growth after years of bad seasons, was satisﬁed to let
up on the rabbits—which, in due course, as it later transpired,ruined
that section of country long before the ensuing summer (just an ordinary
one) was over. H alf a dozen men , working with portable fnmigators in that
very large holding, could have saved that whole inn.

My Personal Explanation.

With such emphatic support as I have given during the last six or
seven years to the use of Cyanogas , I feel that I, might make some personal
explanation to the reader here. To begin with, I take it that my general
interest in all conservation work in the country will be taken for granted ,
in View of my known connection with such for the last thirty years.
And, speciﬁcally, as regards the Rabbit Menace: In the course of my
investigations I have had occasion to examine and report upon every
known method for eradication, and many suggested methods. Among
these were the following: Poisoning (Poisoned Water, Arsenic, Strych—
nine, Phosphorus, etc.), Trapping, Fumigation (Carbon Bisulphide,

20

 

«w.

 




 

‘

 

 

as v———-—'

Carbon Monoxide, Sulphur Dioxide , Cyanogas , etc.) , Killing by Disease,
Digging Out, Shooting, Ferreting, Hunting, Use of Dogs, the so—called
Rodier Method, Coleman Phillips’ Plan, Group and Radius Systems,
and so on.

With one or other of these methods or systems——or of most of them——
a vast amount of destruction of rabbits has taken place. Poisoning alone
has accounted for untold millions in the years gone past , and fumigation
with ‘ ‘Carbon’ ’ has also been responsible for a lot of killing. In weighing
the relative value of these methods , I have had to consider many factors;
but the chief ones have been General Applicability, Ease and Economy
in Use, Lethal Value, Permanence, and Safety to Man and Beast. As a
result of my experiences and investigations I have been forced to the
conclusion that there is no killing agent for the rabbit pest that is even
comparable for general use with Cyanogas. It is the only fumigant which
generates its deadly gas within the warren. All others, having to be
generated ﬁrst and blown in, soon become absorbed in the soil and lose
their efﬁciency.

In a word, if I can be shown a fumigant or any other killing agency
that is more effective than the Cyanogas I shall be glad to give the same
personal ‘ ‘push,” in the interests of the primary producers of this
country, that I have given to Cyanogas.

Digging Out is .a Fetish.

Many thoroughgoing landholders still cling tenaciously to the idea
of digging out as a regular necessity, just as they quite properly did in
the pre-Cyanogas days. While there are exceptions, it does not take very
much calculation to see that this method could not possibly be applied
economically on a very large scale, while in many parts of the country
it is literally impracticable or even impossible. I know this sounds like
a heresy to many a good man, but I again emphasise what I have often
repeated, that, except in some uncommon cases, it is quite unnecessary
to dig out at all. Even under the most favourable circumstances the
cost of digging-out is a great load to carry—with its wastage of man-
power, generally at a time when it is wanted elsewhere.

The rabbit’s burrow, which has been the ‘ ‘strength’ ’ of the roving
curse in its spread over our land, may at all times be turned against the
rabbit instead of being its stronghold. The principle has been recognised
by many pastoralists and farmers generally since the rabbit pest ﬁrst
started, but with the aid of the Cyanogas fumigant the burrow is a ﬁrst—
class ally. The burrow Which was the rabbit’s citadel and the farmer’s
nightmare now becomes a never—failing trap. All the old-time worry and
expense about digging out—except in arable lands, of course, where the
plough may be used—is now gone; and all that is necessary is to dig in
the mouths of the burrows after having pumped in the necessary supply
of fumigating dust. Then when a burrow is opened up again by some
stray rabbit , or a newly arrived lot which found no rabbit-proof fence to
bar the way, all that is necessary is to give a few more puffs and get the
new tenants. Like many other animals rabbits take the line of least
resistance when it comes to burrow making, and all burrows suitably

21'

 

 




 

placed (and not the result of overcrowding) will be opened and re—opened
by new arrivals, so that they become permanent traps.

The Rabbit and Forestry Work.

Great havoc has been wrought by rabbits in several States of Aus-
tralia in the various forest plantations. Particularly does this apply to
afforestation with Pines, chieﬂy of the species Pam/ts mdz'ata (or insignis) ,
where enormous numbers of young seedlings, even up to a foot or so in
height, have had the heads nipped out of them and the future trees
completely ruined. Recently this came under my particular notice in
the great Pine plantations in South Australia. In most cases the burrows
are short and freely distributed about the borders of the plantations and
elsewhere.

In all such cases, good rabbit—proof fencing and gates are the ﬁrst
essential, when it will be found that one or two men , working separately
with hand blowers, will effectively cope with the trouble. Each burrow
should be well dug in after fumigation.

DAVID G. STEAD.
November, 1932.

22

 

 




 




 

 

 




