a
‘1

‘omy of nature.

[By Dr. Jud-I; Kellogg oﬁthef‘Battle Creek Sanita1ium.”]

“Thel‘I slaughter Of; animals of any kind for
mere p gaSure ought~ to be. prehibited by law.
It is the Write? s using)c elief that a fully awak-
ened conscience will r canine animal rights as
well as human righ,ts:a;.f1d‘;"ccr'iainly the1e is no
right m01e sacred to e1the1 nimal or human
than the right to live.

“To the Wiiter, 110thi13¢
sale massacre of humamgjg

short of the whole-
eings could be more

‘ hideous than going out-with a shotgun to" kill:
3 birds, or with a riﬂe to destroy the graceful;
antelope or busy rabbits and squirrels, all 1,
actively at work performing ofﬁces in the econ—f;
Think of the 'millions of murders

which are daily committed in the name of sport,

Of the vast number of noble, happy creatures
which are shot down, either killed outright, or

maimed and mutilat d, to linger out a. miserable
existence, and ﬁnally to die of pain or starvation.”

.“If I were a man of means and had a- horse

7 that I liked, I would turn him out to pasture in

his old age, or, if I could not do that, I would

put him into the hands Of somebody I knew who.

would use him kindly and carefully, and then
put him to a painless end. Or, if I could not

do either of these things, I would put him out,

of the way myself. I Would not turn him over
into What is almost of necessity, certain last
years sof suffering, of cruelty, of neglect ”—-—Reo.
M; J Savage.

 

The steel trap and other traps, largely used
by rabbit-catchers and gamekeepers have been
well described as abominable devise, both as
means Of destluction and as instruments of
TORTURE MOST HORRIBLE, for not only do the
sharp teeth by which the victim is held and
LACERA'I‘ED cause EXCRUCIATING PAIN, but this
pain is often PROLONGnD for days and nights
together, until the keeper or some passer—by
may happen to visit the spot and put the sufferer
out of his misery. HOUSEHOLD PETS are also
often caught in, these traps. LAWS should, be
passed forbidding the use of such cruel and
criminal contrivances.

Brief facts such, as the following may be used
as blackboard lessons by the teacher:

It pays to take care of domestic animals.

Most birds are a great help to the farmer.

Animals have rights as well as people.

To abuse any innocent and helpless creature
is mean. cruel and cowardly.

Domestic animals often suffer for want of

fresh water.

Fish should be killed as soon as taken out Of
water. _
All cruelty degrades the person who practices
it. .

The horse is man’s invaluable helper, has as
much right to be happy at his work as you have,
and should be treated as a‘ friend.

A d11ve1 should be his horse’s best friend and
should study his comfort.

 

TO EDUCATE THE BRAINS.

Millions are poured into our colleges and
universities to educate the brains of America,
while almost nothing is done to educate the
heart.

,

If you have any doubts as to whether animals
feel pain, watch the look of extreme suﬁ‘ering
and hopeless woe upon the face, of a poor, half-
starved, overworked horse.

We think our civilization is near its meridian,
but we are yet only at the COCKCROWING 011 THE
MORNING

“Man’s colleague,-—the horse.”— Huxley.
“He who is not actively kind is cruel .”-——Rushin

“Man’s

Jcolleagues,—the animals and birds
-—M. O’.J ’

“The man who tortures animals is a DANGER-

()US MEMBER or socm'rv. He is a degenerate, ,

‘who would commit just such crimes upon the

HUMAN race, were it not for his fear of punish-
ment.”—- The American Field on Human Degeneracy.

You are dOing right when you treat every liv-
ing creature as you would wish to be treated.
If you drive a horse, or own a horse, think how
you would like to be treatedif you were that
horse. Treat your dog and your cat as you
would like to be treated if you were that dog)~ or
cat , OVER

 




' “What we sow in the home and the school,

f 7We reap in the nation.” _

.- “0 science! What crimes are committed in -
. '. ,__'thy: name. ” —

‘ “No civilization is complete which does not

W _\ include within its spheie of charity and mercy
.,,_~-;,1he dumb and defenceless of God’s c1"eatu1es.”
fr: _——.- Queen Victoria.

\

Knowledge alone does not make men better,
7. but kindness does. Knowledge confers power
and kindness prevents its evil application, so

‘7"- "both must be inculcated.

. V ” ‘ . “I have not lived' 1n vain—‘

” If I but stop one tear, or heal a wrong, 1
0r lift a fainting robin into his nest again.
I have not lived in vain.”

. “Among the noblest 1n the land,

_ (ThOugh he may count himself the least ,)
‘4 .1 _ That man I honor and revere, “
‘ a . > Who, Without favor, without fear,

In the great city dares to stand
The friend of every friendless beast,
iAnd tames with an unshrinking hand

~ “ j The BuUrEs that wear OUR form and face

'. Tho WEHn-WOLVES of the human race ”
-— Longfellow.

'L Humane education lowers the criminal record.

 

Whoever restores a young bird to the limb,

01' gladdens the lives of dumb creatures in need,

Is one of Christ’ s helpers whatever his creed,

Clasps hands with “the angel that comforted
Him ”

But whoever ﬂnds pleasure in adding one hurt

To an innocent life, be it insect or dove,

Is somehOW in league With those who found
sport

In nailing the hands of the World’s Greatest
Love.

Oh, 110W dare we ask a just God to bestow

The mercy we grant not to creatures below!

Mt. Pulaski (Ill. ) Weekly News.

“The age of chivalry is never past so long as.

there is a wrong left unredressed on earth, or a
man 01' woman left to say, ‘I will redress that
wrong or spend my life in the attempt. ”’—
Charles Kingley.

“Open thy mouth for the dumb.”-4P7'overbs.
“Kind hearts are more than coronets.”

“The great duty of life is not to give pain.”
—- F. Bremer.

“He shall have judgment Withoutmercy, who
hath shown no mercy.”—Bt'ble.

“Sweet mercy is nobility’s true badge.”—
Shakespeare.

 

“I shall not pass this way but once, so let me
do all the good I can to mankind and animal.”

“0, the good we may all do, as the days are
going by l” /

“Blessed are the merciful, for they shall ob—
tain mercy.”

“We plead the cause of those dumb months
that have no speech.”—Longfellow.

“Merciful treatment of animals should be
taught from the pulpit and in 0111' Sunday
Schools as a most imperative Christian duty.”
—Bt'shop W. X. Ninde.

“The crying sin of omission of most clergy-
men to-day is their silence regarding the in-
humanity of men to animals.”—Ella Wheeler
Wilcox.

Freeman, the noted English historian and
noble humanitarian, justly declared, “that the
awful wrongs and sufferings forced upon the
innocent, helpless, faithful animal race forms
the blackest chapter tin-the whole world’s history.”

“They cannot recompense you, but ye shall
be recompensed in the resurrection of the just.”
—- Bible.

“For us they toil
For us they die.”

 




