THE NATIONAL IMPORTANCE
OF WILD BIRDS

By w. E. COLLINGE, D.Sc., F. L.S.
Reprinted, by permission, from the National Review, July, 1927

Plzoz‘o. Ralf/z C/zz'sletzf A [Z rig/at: reserved
YOUNG KESTREL

The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds
82, Victoria Street, London, S.W.1

(Second Edition 1929)

 




 

The National Importance of
Wild Birds

BY

WALTER E. COLLINGE, D.Sc., F.L.S.

V’ajm/F‘at URING the past ten years there has been a slow but

L
$37!:
c)

5

\ggradually increasing interest taken in the subject of
wild birds. Although as a nation we are far behind
many other countries, there is a distinct realisation
that the subject of the economic status of wild birds and the many
problems associated therewith is worthy of a more detailed and
intensive study, So far as our governmental departments are
concerned, little progress has been made, but the sportsman,
game-preserver, agriculturist, and forester have at last begun to
realise how intimately the activities of our avian fauna are
related to their callings and interests. It is perhaps the agricul—
turist, more so than others, who has widened his vision and
has discerned that the destruction or scarcity of beneﬁcial birds
has a very material effect upon his calling; and at a time when
there IS pressing need for the 1ncrease of human food and home-
grown food this is somewhat significant. Hitherto the agriculturist
has to a very large extent regarded all such matters with apathy
and indifference, much to the surprise and benefit of his foreign
competitors. Disease has been rampant in his live stock. His
crops have suffered losses varying from 10 to 50 per cent. Farm
vermin has increased and taken a further toll of his depleted
revenue. For years this has been taking place, and little or no
effort has been made by the State to arrest such waste, although
at the same time large sums of money have been expended in
experiments and activities, the bulk of which are either of only
academical interest, or are futile and misdirected owing to the
failure to realise the vital issues at stake.

Nearly seventy years ago John Curtis told us that if the
depredations of injurious insects could be brought under Control
“the benefit would exceed everything of which at present we

 

'3»,

 

Q».

 




 

 

‘3‘$_.

 

’ and times without number we have since

have any conception,’
been reminded of this fact. Yet in spite of all such good advice,
as a nation we have very largely ignored such.

The veteran entomologist, Dr. L.O. Howard, has quite recently
stated that “ the world is fast coming to take a broader and more
serious view of the importance of injurious insects. We have
always known them as nuisances, as annoying creatures that
interfere with our comfort, and as enemies that damage our
crops and our stored food and other products. But as our
population has increased and our demands for food grown
greater we have unwittingly created very great opportunities for
the unprecedented increase and spread of our worst enemies. It
is literally true that with our farming methods we are giving
insects certain chances that they have never had before.”

So long as we neglect the study of the inter-relations between
wild birds and insect life, so long will the agriculturist continue
to lose an undue percentage of his crops. It is useless shutting
our eyes to this fact.

“There is no subject in the ﬁeld of natural science,’
Professor Forbush, “ that is of greater interest than the important
position that the living bird occupies in the great plan of organic
nature. . . . The food relations of birds are so complicated and
have such a far—reaching effect upon other forms of life that the
mind of man may never be able fully to trace and grasp them.”

Whilst strenuous efforts have been and are being made in
other countries to elucidate these problems, the State in this
country has done little or nothing. It has failed to realise that
agriculture is not a branch of chemistry, but of biology. Agri—
culture is concerned with the rearing and breeding of plants and
animals, and the sooner the State leaves oﬁc spending huge sums
of money on so-called agricultural chemistry and academical
agricultural studies the better will it be for agriculture and for the
nation. However ﬁtted the Board of Agriculture was in 1889
to cope with the various problems affecting agriculture, it cannot
be said that it is so to—day. Mr. Walter Heape* says: “It is
certainly incompetent to supply present-day needs,” and this
being so, it is fully time that it was “reorganised on a broad,
scientific basis.” Such a reorganisation would surely provide for

9

writes

-::=- 2715’ Brew/ling Industml, 1906! p.’ 146

 




 

a department of economic ornithology, the national importance
of which I shall here endeavour to show.

The depredations of injurious insects have already been
referred to, and the injuries sustained by rats, voles, and mice.
Now the food of quite a large number of wild birds consists of
lllJIlI‘iOllS insects, e.g., nightjar 88 per cent., cuckoo 83 per cent.,
blue titmouse 78 per cent., great titmouse 66.5 per cent., lapwing
60 per cent., garden warbler 55.5 per cent., hedge accentor
4.0 per cent., redbreast 39.5 per cent., jackdaw 39.5 per cent.,
Skylark 35.5 per cent., song-thrush 32 per cent., and missel-thrush
30.5 per cent., while such species as the wagtails, pipits, warblers,
ﬂycatchers, swallow, martins, swift, etc., are almost entirely
insectivorous. Of the tawny owl’s food 82.5 per cent. consists
of voles and mice, the long—cared owl 78 per cent., the short—
eared owl 75 per cent., the barn owl 69 per cent., and the
kestrel 64.5 per cent.

Moreover, practically all birds, excepting doves and pigeons,
feed their young upon an animal diet of which insects form the
greater proportion. It is therefore of the greatest importance
that we should know all we can respecting the life-history,
habits, migrations, and feeding habits of all such species, for they
constitute a natural force of enormous magnitude.

Hitherto in this country the State has had no carefully
planned and well—thought-out scheme of bird protection, and yet
it is surely patent to every observant mind that we are dependent
upon such species as those above mentioned for the successful
cultivation of our crops.

The importance of wild bird life to the country can

perhaps be best brought home to us when we consider the '

enormous bulk of food that they require and most of which is a
menace to our crops. I have previously shown in this Review
that 100,000 song—thrushes will consume during the months of
April, May and June upwards of 3,000 million insects, cater—
pillars, etc. Now there is no reason to suppose that, with possibly
two exceptions, any of the above-mentioned species are not as
plentiful as the song-thrush, and most of them consume consider—
ably more insect food. A very striking instance has been given
by Bryant* in connection with the Western meadow—lark in

Univ. Calif. Pub. in 2001., 1914

«T. ..




the Sacramento and San Joaquin valleys. Presuming that there is
an average of one bird to every four acres of available land for
cultivation (11 million acres), and that each pair of birds raises
an average of four young, each one of which averages one ounce
in weight while in the nest and consumes its own weight of food
each day, it takes 193 tons of insect food 'each day to feed the
young birds in the great valleys alone. Do we realise that, on
a smaller scale, this same beneﬁcial action is taking place daily
in our own country throughout the breeding season E

Any diminution in the numbers of our beneficial wild birds
means an undue increase in certain forms of insect life and a
consequent loss of crops. It should, therefore, be our aim to
maintain these species of birds in such numbers that they will be
able to prevent the undue increase in insect life—in short, to
maintain the balance of Nature. By so doing we are making it
proﬁtable to the farmer to cultivate his crops, and at the same
time we are augmenting the amount of home—grown food.

Valuable as artificial means are in reducing and controlling
injurious insects, they are only partially effective; not infre-
quently the cost on a large acreage is prohibitive, Whereas wild
birds do the work much more thoroughly and without any cost
to the farmer, fruit—grower, or forester.

The losses sustained by the agriculturist due to farm vermin
have been frequently dwelt upon. The brown rat alone is said
to cost agriculturists at least [510,000,000 per year. The loss
of eggs, young chicks, poultry food and stored grain alone comes
to an exceedingly large sum, but the amount of cultivated grain
and newly sown seed that is destroyed is enormous. No reliable
statistics are available of the losses due to voles and mice, but the
annual amount must reach a very large sum. We are here
mainly concerned with the danger these rodents are in connection
with their depredations 011 food, seed, and livestock, but there is
another equally important side, viz., as a danger to the public
health. There is now very little doubt that these drain-loving
animals disseminate trichinosis, septic pneumonia, diphtheria,
typhoid, and scarlet fever. In every town, village and hamlet in
the land the rat levies his toll. In spite of all man’s efforts they
remain as plentiful as ever. In the case of many species of farm
vermin there is undoubtedly an increase. The relentless war

 




 

that has been waged against hawks and owls has much to do with
this. Some of these may occasionally destroy a few chicks of
game—birds, but this is only during a very short period of the
year; for the remainder the bulk of their food consists of rats,
voles and mice. No amount of poisoning, trapping, etc., will
ever accomplish a quarter of the destruction that these birds do in
this connection, and yet ignorant gamekeepers are permitted to
destroy them wholesale.

Take, for instance, a bird like the kestrel, a resident species
in the British Isles and fairly plentiful and generally distributed.
In addition to destroying 16.5 per cent. of injurious insects, its
food includes no less than 64.5 per cent. of mice, rats and voles.
The examination of 460 disgorged pellets showed remains of 4.30
of these injurious rodents.

Somewhat similar ﬁgures might be quoted for the barn owl,
the brown or tawny owl, the long-cared owl, the short—cared owl,
and the little owl. The bulk of the food consumed by these
species consists of mice, rats and voles, a class of vermin which
so far the agriculturist has failed to cope with by artiﬁcial means
All who have any experience in connection with the destruction
of such animals know how exceedingly difﬁcult, and frequently
unsatisfactory, all suggested remedies have proved, and yet the
one natural factor that controls these pests we are doing all we
can to thwart. As we have frequently pointed out, it is not
contended that the State protection of any species of wild birds
will lead to the extermination of rats and mice, but we do most
emphatically contend that such an important and widely distributed
factor will control and limit the evil, In other words, a plentiful
supply of hawks and owls means a diminished number of rats and
mice, just as a large number of insectivorous birds means a
diminution of injurous species of insects.

The evidence is now so overwhelming that we fail to
understand the attitude of the farmer, fruit-grower, or forester
who neglects to rightly understand these problems, and to their
own detriment assume an apathetic attitude.

The gamekeeper in nearly all cases pursues a relentless war
against these very beneficial birds, but the farmer can do much
to counteract his foolish and short-sighted policy. Any damage
to game-birds occurs only during a very short period of the year ;

6

 

 

 




 

 

 

moreover, such birds are not bred in every agricultural district.
It is admitted on all hands that game-birds suffer considerably
from the depredations of rats, to say nothing of the losses to food
by these and other rodents. The loss of a few pheasant chicks is
surely not too great a price to pay for the destruction of countless
numbers of rats, voles, and mice.

The whole subject is of such magnitude and importance that
one entirely fails to understand the apathy that has been displayed
in the past, for we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that in other
countries a very different attitude has been displayed, greatly
to the nation’s welfare. The work done by the United States
Government in the Bureau of the Biological Survey is known
throughout the civilised world. Until our own Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries is entirely reorganised and placed upon
a scientific basis, very little progress will be made in this country
from the standpoint of the State. The time is long overdue
when the clerical and statistical side of the Ministry should be a
department by itself; and bureaux of economic ornithology,
entomology, mycology, and of animal breeding and diseases should
be housed in well—equipped laboratories, staffed by well—trained
and experienced men, away from the precincts of Whitehall.
Other countries and our own colonies possess such organisations,
much to the beneﬁt of the producer and the nation at large.
Slow and apathetic as we are, we cannot afford to wait much
longer for such desirable changes.

So far we have dwelt upon the value of Wild birds as controllers
of the enemies of the agriculturist, fruit—grower and forester, but
there is another side to the subject of their national importance
of equal interest, viz., the xsthetic side. Many thoughtful people
to—day are inquiring whether any small section of the community
have a right to destroy or interfere with the Wild life of our
country. Whilst the law protects a landowner’s possession of
wild animals, it does not necessarily give him property in them,
apart from cases of ratione privilegz'i and ratione 505; how much
less should it legalise the nefarious and cruel calling of the bird-
catcher, or turn a blind eye to the absurd activities of the bird
and egg collector?

A rapidly growing section of the public demand that all
animal life, not necessarily dangerous to the community, should

‘J

 




be'free from persecution and safely preserved for all to enjoy.
The beauty of and interest in wild birds has become interwoven
into the life of all civilised nations; their song is “sweeter
than instrument of man e’er caught,” and their “habitations in

the tree-tops are half-way houses on the road to heaven”—at
least, Longfellow thought so, and so do tens of thousands of
others. As a highly beneﬁcial and important natural force in
aiding in the destruction of injurious insects and various injurious
rodents, as objects of beauty conducive to the uplifting and

welfare of mankind, we surely have a right to ask that the State
will take all effective steps to guard and conserve such objects.
If such action is withheld, neglected or not rightly applied, then
the State has failed in its duty, and in consequence its subjects
are bound to suffer, and its apathetic omission will call forth the
condemnation of all far—sighted citizens.

Think of your woods and orchards without birds l

Of empty nests that cling to boughs and beams,
As in an idiot’s brain remembered words

Hang empty ’mid the cobwebs of his dreams l
Will bleat of ﬂocks or bellowing of herds

Make up for the lost music, when your teams
Drag home the stingy harvest, and no more

The feathered gleaners follow in your door .9

 

Leaﬂet N0. 84. Published by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds,
82, Victoria Street, SW. I, from whom copies may be obtained at 2d. each;
ls. 9d. per dozen.

1029 5t/z,-102‘/z, t/lousami .1. MILES & 00., LTD., 68-70 WARDOUR ST., w.1.

 




