HUMANE TREATMENT OF N
FARM ANIMALS

Notes prepared by the Wye College Branch of ULA WS (now
’ UFAW) in 1937

Editorial note, August, Ig47.——-In June, 1936, and September,
1937, the branch of ULAWS (now UFAW) at the South-Eastern
Agricultural College, Wye, addresSed a questionnaire to a large
number of veterinary surgeons in Great Britain, the Channel
Islands, and Eire with regard to the treatment of domestic animals
on farms, in markets, and during transport. The conclusions
drawn from replies to the questionnaire were summarized in
vol. 5 of the Animal Year-Book, and are reproduced in the
following paragraphs.

The present leaﬂet is a feeler, and is being circulated with the
object of stimulating thought and-eliciting further suggestions
from veterinarians and farmers. The intention is to publish,
later, on a revised edition, and to circulate it widely with a View
to helping country folk to be good friends to their animals, as all
but the exceptional few must surely wish to be.

PIGS

Cruelty is most commonly inﬂicted by bad tran5port under
conditions leading to suffocation; by carelessness in loading and
unloading from lorries, resulting in the breaking of the pigs’ legs;
by lack of shelter in open markets and consequent harmful
exposure, particularly in summer; and, ﬁnally, by conﬁnement 1n
dirty, neglected sties. Pigs may enjoy mud- baths, but they are
susceptible to cold and damp, and therefore dry, warm, and
correctly ventilated sties are essential.

Pigs suffer frequently from purulent abscesses in castration
wounds, owing to the lack of antiseptic precautions taken by
the farmers and laymen who, under existing conditions, must of
necessity carry out the operation themselves. It is unlikely that
veterinary surgeons will be called upon to do the general castrating
of little pigs, and therefore a Government scheme might well be
put on foot to give the unskilled operator information on the use
of antiseptic measures

 




 

2

The spaying of gilts (female pigs), generally by unqualiﬁed
men and without any anaesthetic, causes some of the worst
suffering. It is difﬁcult to understand why such an operation
should be performed on pigs without anaesthetics when the
Animals’ Anaesthetic Act of .1916 enforces their use in comparable
operations on other animals. Moreover, spaying has been proved
unnecessary and is discouraged by the big bacon-curers. Though
becoming less common, the operation is still extensively carried
out.

It is a general practice toinsert a ring in the pig’s nose, and the
usUal methods of doing this are said by some to be rather objec-
tionable. A new method of ringing pigs is described in the issue
of the farmer and Stockbreeder for January 26, 1937. The writer
wished to keep his pigs free from fear and to spare them pain;
accordingly he chloroformed them before ﬁtting the ring. The
giving of the anaesthetic and theaction of ringing take from ﬁve
to ten minutes, the pig being completely unconscious for one
minute. The operation costs little and may be safely carried out
by the layman.

A rare case of cruelty was described in which a thin rope tied
around the pig’s leg had been left to get imbedded in the tissues.

’CALVEs
Suffering is very frequently Caused by mishandling, especially

during loading and unloading from lorries. Young calves in
sacks are sometimes allowed to fall heavily to the ground, the
j‘difﬁculty being that youths, single-handed, have to carry out
.taSks needing two workers. One-armed workers have also been
obs_erved doing this work. A better form of lorry, designed with
'an adjustable lower ﬂoor up which the calves could walk into the
body of the vehicle, would solve the problem of handling the
young animals. Accommodation in lorries is also bad; there
should be stands for each calf, or at least pens for three or four
calves only, set up inside the lorry. -

"Neglect of castration wounds is another source of considerable
“pain to: the animal. An improvement could be effected if all
calves up‘ to six months old were treated with the bloodless
’castr‘ators. If properly used, these are absolutely satisfactory.
_‘ I'tshould be. made illegal to keep young calves longer than
. ﬁve for six hours Without a meal In certain parts of the country
it is still a commOn practice to send calves on journeys lasting up
to ﬁfteen hours Without food. _.

 

 

l

 

 

 




 

 

 

"r‘um—a‘ A «m

 

3

Calves should not be driven along a high road excep1; for short
distances, and very young ones should be excluded from the
markets entirely. . - . .

COWS

Severe criticism has been levelled against the transportation
of emaciated cattle to towns. Cows which should be reported
under the Tuberculosis Order of 1925 are forwarded to neigh-
bouring towns by road and arrive in a completely debilitated
state.* Farmers sometimes fail to recognise the hopelessness of

certain cases of J6hnes disease, or of tuberculosis, and allow the

animals to drag out their lives in unnecessary suffering.

Emphasis has already been placed on bad transport conditions
of pigs and calves; adult cattle are made to suffer inthe same
way, both on the road and in the markets. In transit most of
the hardship occurs in the railway wagons and on long, slow
journeys. Further reference to this will be made under the
section on beef animals.

The practice to be condemned most severely is that of over-
stocking cows. In certain districts it is common for farmers to
send a cow in full milk, with a calf by her side, to the market,
having left her unmilked from the morning of the previous day.
Instead of the regular twelve- hourly milking, she does not receive
attention until noon on the day of sale, thus suffering from neglect
for possibly thirty hours. The animal may be driven miles to
market with “ bursting ” udders, the milk actually trickling away...

The object of the practice, presumably, is to display the ﬁne
supply of milk given by the cow, but the device is worthless, as
everyone does it and everyone knows that everyone does it. It
is deﬁnitely harmful to the cow, having a disastrous effect on her
future milking capacity. Furthermore, it is probably the cause,
or partly the cause, of the most common, painful, and troublesome
disease of cows, namely, inﬂammation of the udder. This may
defy treatment and lead eventually to the death of the animal.
Even the calf suffers, for an overstocked cow must of necessity
mean a starved calf.

The practice of presenting with the sale of every cow a guarantee
of her average milk yield per twenty-four hours would quickly
solve this cruel and unnecessary custom.

' * Editor’ 5 note—~Actually this is a breach of Article 6 of the Transit of
Animals (Amendment) Order, 1931. C. W. H. ' ' . .

 




 

4

EXcessive use of the stick is commen, particularly in markets,
and the loading and unloading from vehicles may be described as
intolerable. If drovers were licensed, and if reports of their
carelessness or cruelty involved the loss of their licences, they
would naturally take greater care. It is useless to expect the
auctioneers to supervise the drovers: they are fully occupied.

In West wales, occasional instances have been reported of
cattle found with steel gin-traps on their lips and even on their
tongues. These have been picked up while the animals were
grazing. ' '

BEEF ANIMALS

MOSt of the reports mention the excessive use of the stick by
drovers and by boys in the markets. This not only causes
unnecessary pain to the animals, but results in the meat being
bruised and less valuable. Sticks are not allowed in the stock-
yards of Canada and the United States, where electric goads are
provided. These may be used gently and yet give the animal a
shock sufﬁcient to make it bound forward. It has been suggested
that ULAWS would be doing a great service if it could investigate
the effectiveness of the electric goad, and, if satisﬁed that it is a
humane and practical instrument, introduce it into this country.

Overcrowding in lorries is usual. It would be wiser if the

driver inSpected his load at shorter intervals, perhaps every
twenty miles, although these transport conditions cause com-
paratively little suffering compared with railway travel. The
lorries are used only for relatively short distances, and there is
not time for discomfort to become acute. . The worst cruelties
are inﬂicted during transit in cattle trucks on long, slow journeys.
It is harmful for fat cattle, used to months of feeding and resting,
to have to stand on concrete in the market all day and then, still
with empty stomachs, to have another twelve hours of standing
in crowded railway wagons. A remedy for this is difﬁcult to ﬁnd;
in fact, the only effective step would be to provide abbatoirs in the
vicinity of all the larger markets.

BULLS

It was suggested that enquiry into the subject of the exercising
of bulls might yield interesting results. At present, the situation




.3”

5

is not altogether satisfactory, and questions were asked about the
use and practicability of some form of “ Bull-exerciser,” as used
in the USA. and elsewhere.

SHEEP

In Spite of the efforts made by local authorities to control the
loads, sheep also suffer from overcrowding in lorries. Exposure
in'the open markets is also prevalent, the suffering being intense
on hot days. ,

Cruel death from maggots is inﬂicted on thousands of sheep
annually, owing to the fact that some ﬂocks have to be left
unattended on moors and mountain pastures. Flock-masters in
many parts of Great Britain ﬁnd it impossible to tend their sheep
properly as this would mean trespassing on land kept as game
preserves. The game-keepers are particularly vigilant and the
shepherds dare not disturb the game.

Foot-rot is another cause of severe suffering and one which
could easily be prevented. If sheep with foot-rot do not receive
attention, not only are they in great'pain from the disease itself,
but in hot weather maggots penetrate the feet, thus causing more
discomfort. These maggots Spread to other parts of the body
unless dealt with at once. It is cruel to drive sheep suffering from
foot-rot along the road, and advantage should be taken of the
rubber boots available, as these are protective and keep any
dressings .in place. Sheep’s feet are often found in a gangrenous
condition as the result of having broken rabbit snares twisted
around them. If the rabbit trade, in all ways so harmful to
agriculture, could be reduced, this problem would also be solved.

In castration, the “ cutting and teeth-pulling ” operation is
barbarous, cruel, incredibly antiquated, and is absolutely con-
demned in the great sheep-breeding countries of the world. In
all cases the bloodless castrators should be used.

HORSES

The worst praCtice is that of keeping worn-out horses at work.
Next to this, the neglect of horses’ feet is the form of cruelty most
prevalent. The following conditions are found : thrush; cracked
hooves; suppurating cavities; contracted heel-lameness in
unshod horses’ feet caused by lack of paring; foot-lameness; and,
ﬁnally, overgrown feet. Should the horse’s feet become over-
grown before the shoes are worn out, these Should be removed and
reﬁtted after the superﬂuous horn has been pared away. Regular

 




 

6

inspection of 'horses’ feet and shoes should. be undertaken by a
responsible person in the county. Sores under :the collar and
saddle seem to occur less frequently than in former years. ’

The constant irritation of the leg-mite inﬂicts much suffering.
The mites become most active at night when the horse is warmly
stabled, thus keeping it awake and restive.‘ The condition is
easily curable and still more easily prevented. All heavy horses
should have their legs dressed once a month. Liceare becoming
more prevalent, probably owing to the decline in horse-mastership
and in the art of grooming. , This problem again could be easily
dealt with.

The transport of horses on railways and ships is unsatisfactory,
the boxes being frequently too narrow and insufﬁciently padded.
A report from the Channel Islands mentions that, after rough
seas, horses suffered considerably from abrasions.

D O G S

The treatment of watchdogs on many farms can be severely
criticized. ' Almost permanently chained (a practice more preva-
lent than generally realized) exposed to extremes of heat, cold, and
damp, they hardly obtain any exercise other than that allowed by
the length of chain. They are frequently infested with vermin,
ear diseases, and other unnecessary ills. Some farmers also
neglect their cattle dogs and sheep dogs, feeding them irregularly,
letting them sleep anywhere, and allowing their coats to become
disgracefully tangled and, dirty.

The remedy for the last eVil is obvious : regular meals, adequate
sleeping quarters, and periodical attention to the coat. In the
former case, legislation should be brought 1n, granting the police
powers of inspection.

Reports from North Wales draw attention to the habit of
training young dogs to keep to heel by tying one foreleg up to the
collar, and allowing them to limp about on three legs for days on
end. Often this causes temporary atrophy of the muscles of the
disused limb. A much better method 1s to tie the young dog to
an experienced animal.

Another custom peculiar to farmers of Wales and Shropshire
is that of driving the cattle to market with the help of a dog,
and returning alone by ’bus after the sale, presumably to avoid
paying the dog’s fare! . --

 

 




 

 

 

POULTRY:

Caponizing is an extremely Cruel practice, and keeping table-

birds 1n small pens can be severely criticized, together with many
forms of the battery system. During the solitary conﬁnement of
hens after egg-laying, Which is intended to prevent broodiness, the
least that can be done for the birds is to provide weatherproof
coops, dry bedding, regular food, and clean water.
' Poultry of all kinds are still killed in cruel and antiquated ways.
Heavy criticiSm can be levelled against the method of sticking
ducks with a knife; birds have been seen hanging up and still
alive three hours after their throats have been cut. Ducks should
be killed by having their necks wrung and then be hung up.
Turkeys and geese should be stunned by a blow on the head
before the necks are broken; the bird’s head should be rested on
a block of wood, and the back oflthe head struck; the throat can
then be cut or the neck chOpped through.

M‘ISCELLANEOUS NOTES

Much cruelty results from the dosing of animals with drugs,
patent medicines, and “ household ” remedies. Farmers and
dog-owners are only too ready, before calling in the expert, to
give their animals all kinds of drugs, which may be harmful, and
often the animals suffer more from drug-poisoning than from the
original complaint. Careless and unskilful drenching of animals
must also be condemned.

Exposure of animals during bad weather 1n open ﬁelds, offering
no shelter whatsoever either from thick hedges or trees, is fre-
quently seen. Wild animals always seek shelter, and domestic
animals, being less hardy, need it, still more. Unbroken colts
have been known to die suddenly from undiagnosed lung disease
caused by undue exposure. Sometimes lightning is blamed for
such deaths !

CONCLUSION

The answers to the questionnaire revealed a consensus of
‘opinion that drovers, casual labourers, and small boys make
excessive use of the stick; that the conditions in markets are
often undesirable; that there should be an increased supervision
of transport vehicles, especially of motor lorries; that a new
design of lorry is needed with proper footboards lowering to the
ground; and, ﬁnally, that farmers need more instruction in the

diagnosis of hopeless cases of disease

 




8

It is not enough to outline the cruelties prevalent in thetreata
ment of domestic animals to-day ; what of the underlying causes
and remedies? Admittedly all livestock is now much better
cared for than it was twenty years ago, but man is still apt to
think only of himself, and cases of suffering still occur through
thoughtlessness and selﬁshness of the owners. To-day there is no
excuse for ignorance, and the farmer should see that he and his
assistants make full use of the Opportunities for obtaining informa-
tion on the latest improved methods for ensuring the health of
the animals, which are the source of his livelihood. If he would
only study the animals’ needs in health and sickness, much of the
suffering referred to in this article could be prevented. Legisla-
tion is an indispensable weapon in the ﬁght for fair and good
treatment of animals, but the ﬁnal responsibility rests with the
individual owner.

Editorial note on transport. ——There appears to be no system for
feeding animals on rail, and compensation for“ transit shrinkage”
due to starvation is paid by the Ministry of Food. Here is a
pressing problem Which calls for urgent consideration if a solution
is to be found. C.W.H.

Reprinted by
U F A W
(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)
284 Regent’s Park Road, Finchley, London, N.3.

September, 1947.

 

Printed by c. F- Hodgson a; Spa. Ltd. 2, Newton 5:... Lpnqon. w.c.2.

 




