 

ANIMAL WELFARE. INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

Telephone: (202) 337-2332 Fax: (202) 338-9478

December 11, 1991

Dear Member:

This year, every member of the Animal Welfare Institute can
celebrate. Together we have achieved victory in a major battle
against that vilest of cruel inventions, the steel jaw leghold
trap. Please help us pursue this victory to the very end of the
trapping war by making your most generous possible gift to AWI!

IMPORT BAN

The Regulation adopted November 4, 1991 by the European Community
(EC) will prohibit use of this trap by its 12 member countries
and ban importation into the EC of fur of 13 species of animals
from any country "where the leghold trap is still used or where
trapping methods do not meet the internationally agreed humane
trapping standards." The Regulation goes into effect January 1,
1995. We'll work to see that it is put into practice at the
earliest possible moment.

The enclosed Annual Report tells of some of the many obstacles
that had to be overcome in recent months. The long struggle that
began with the vote in the European Parliament in 1988 has been
described in The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies as the
campaign gained momentum. Those of you who have been supporting
AWI's efforts over the years are aware of the three separate
editions of Facts About Furs that laid the documented groundwork
for the protracted war against the steel jaw trap. AWI's
persistence has paid off. And we won't stop till we're certain
that international standards have banned all cruel traps. We've
asked to participate in the discussions of the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) and the International Standards
Organization (ISO). We'll keep you informed.

 

AIRLINES SAY BIRDS CAN'T FLY

Major gains were made this year in AWI's long struggle against
capture of wild birds for the massive U. S. pet trade. Since we
published The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird
Trade, by Greta Nilsson, in 1977, followed by a series of
extensive reports documenting huge mortality and great suffering,

(over)

®

recycled paper

 




attempted progress was thwarted over and over again by the pet
industry. But this year, more than 40 airlines refused, one by
one, to transport wild-caught birds. The big dealers are
furious. They are threatening to charter their own airplanes to
bring birds from their native jungles to U. S. and European
markets. The large expense this would incur would work to reduce
the terrible abuses of the bird trade until the Wild Bird
Protection Act can be enacted.

AWI's companion organization, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, is pressing hard for passage of the Act, which is
pending in both the U. S. Senate and House of Representatives.

It would place an immediate ban on importation of wild-caught
birds. A similar law was enacted in New Jersey this year despite'
frantic opposition by the industry. If you'd like SAPL to add
your name to its mailing list so you'll be kept informed on
legislation, just let me know. I'm a volunteer worker for both
AWI and SAPL, putting in at least 60 hours a week.

ELEPHANTS

A Donnybrook on the endangered African elephants is expected at
the next meeting of the nations party to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) in Kyoto, Japan, March l-l3, 1992. AWI has just designed
T-shirts to distribute at the conference, with the message in the
three CITES languages: "Save the elephants. Keep them ALL on
Appendix I."

As you may recall, at the 1989 CITES meeting, international trade
in any part or product of the elephant was banned by putting them
on Appendix I of the Convention. Appendix I is the "endangered"
classification. Before 1989, African elephants were listed on
Appendix II ("threatened"), and their ivory could be traded. The
permit and quota processes were easily evaded by the many
practiced smugglers in the international criminal network, and
the African elephant was on a rapid road to extinction until the
landmark CITES vote.

Zimbabwe, South Africa and some other southern African countries
are trying to get their elephants back on Appendix II. Not
satisfied with the money they make from tourists viewing
elephants, they want to cut elephants to pieces and sell hides,
elephant hair bracelets and elephant foot wastebaskets as well as
ivory. This revolting trade must not be permitted to start up
again.

If you are an admirer of these magnificent animals, whose
sagacity and care for one another places them high in the moral
order, please give generously to AWI to carry on the urgently
needed campaign to protect them from the killing, culling and
international selling the southern Africans are so eager to
pursue.

 




AWI has given financial assistance to the courageous on-the-spot
investigations of the Environmental Investigation Agency. Some
of their remarkable successes are noted in the attached Annual
Report in the Albert Schweitzer Medal section. More such work is
urgently needed now to win in Kyoto for the elephants, as we did
in Lausanne in 1989. If you would like more information on how
you can help this special effort, let us know. Dollars for
elephant protection today mean elephant survival into the future.
We must not fail them.

WHALES AND DOLPHINS

Japan has promised an end to the "walls of death," the driftnets
that have entangled thousands of dolphins and whales in their
inexorable toils. Driftnets deny these fellow mammals access to
the air they must breathe. Set to catch squid for the markets of
the Far East, the tough netting is so fine, no inhabitant of the
oceans can detect and avoid it.

Over the protests of the Japanese fishing industry, the
government of Japan has agreed to remove 50% of the driftnet
boats by June 1992 and 100% by December 1992. Taiwan and South
Korea have not agreed to stop, however.

In the struggle over "Dolphin Safe" tuna fish, a federal judge
came down on the side of the dolphins, but a ruling by a panel of
three obscure foreign officials meeting in secret, called for the
U. S. Congress to repeal dolphin-saving provisions in the Marine
Mammal Protection Act in the name of "free trade." The ruling
was issued under the aegis of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT), but Congress is having none of it.

Instead, the Administration is being urged by key legislators to
block the ruling and to change GATT itself. The plight of the
dolphins has focused attention on the dangers to labor, public
health and the environment in general, of GATT's tunnel vision on
free trade.

AWI works cooperatively with the many groups involved in these
broad international issues and welcomes their help for the sea
mammals.

For a report on the last meeting of the International Whaling
Commission (IWC), we refer you to the enclosed Annual Report.

LABORATORY ANIMALS

The outcome of the lawsuit filed by the Animal Legal Defense Fund
will dictate AWI's next moves with regard to laboratory animals.
We earnestly hope that the will of Congress in passing the
Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments will be
recognized and required to be lived up to. The Annual Report
describes the current situation.

(over)

 




The emphasis by USDA on "education" as a substitute for law
enforcement has enfeebled the Animal Welfare Act compliance
inspections. The number of legal cases submitted has dropped
from 184 in 1988 to only 63 in 1990.

The bad influence of the National Association for Biomedical
Research, the National Institutes of Health and the Office of
Management and Budget on USDA must be constantly countered. The
Council on Competitiveness, headed by Vice President Quayle, is
also implicated through its opposition to regulatory enforcement.

AWI has two books in the works which bear heavily on laboratory
animals. First, the book on animal dealers, noted in the
enclosed Annual Report, and next, the third edition of Animal
Expressions, A Photographic Footnote to Charles Darwin's
"Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals." We are even
adding some artists' renditions of animals showing emotions
ranging from affection to terror. Darwin was the first to
recognize, in scientific terms, the wide range of feelings shown
by familiar animal species. The sorrow plainly stamped on the
faces of experimental dogs photographed in Japanese laboratories
is unforgettable proof of their suffering. We hope this new
edition will have a wide circulation in American scientific
institutions and that it will help to achieve the psychological
well—being required for laboratory primates under the Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments.

 

 

AWI is in all the battles we've told you about for the long pull.
Sometimes the opposition is too strong to break through, but our
constant presence and pressure means that we're there at the
ready whenever an opportunity opens up. To make progress in
protecting animals, persistence is the greatest virtue. It's the
one we live by.

A word about direct mail campaigns, in which it is estimated that
five million trees are cut down each year just to keep these
mailings going. AWI takes no part in such operations, lucrative
though they may be. We don't bombard our members and friends
with constant pleas for donations. We rely instead on this
end-of—the-year letter, which we hope will bring us the funds we
must have to keep winning for all the different creatures whose
lives depend on our work.

We entreat you to give generously. Contributions are
tax-deductible in computing income tax. The just pride you can
take for charity to the world's most downtrodden and abused, the
animals, will repay your generosity many times over.

With best wishes for the holidays,

Sincerely,

(”z/0%.; (a...

Christine Stevens
President

 




Animal Welfare Institute

Fortieth Annual Report
1 July 1990 to 30 June 1991

ml Investigation Agency/Cam] Shayla

Envir

 




 

 

Laboratory Animals

At long last, on February 14, 1991, ﬁnal regulations were published for
the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals amendments to the
federal Animal Welfare Act. Unfortunately, many highly desirable
regulations were dropped owing to extreme, long-lasting pressure from
the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Ofﬁce of Management and
Budget (OMB), and the National Association for Biomedical Research.
However, the Department of Agriculture did succeed in getting a consid-
erable number of valuable and much-needed regulations through the
obstacle course erected by these opponents. But two Congressional
mandates— exercise for laboratory dogs and a physical environment
adequate to promote the psychological well-being of monkeys and apes
— were reduced to unenforceable "plans" to be made by the research
facilities themselves.

The extraordinary maneuvers involved attracted the attention of OMB
Watch, a public interest group that monitors the activities of the Office of
Management and Budget. This is how OMB Watch describes the tortuous
process: "Delay. Substantive interference. Misleading analysis. These
are just three of the ways the OMB can undercut agency authority, and
often Congressional intent, through the regulatory review process . . . The
Department of Agriculture’s Animal Welfare Standards have been the
subject of all the tools at OMB ’s disposal at one time or another. This rule
has been delayed and returned, dissembled and redrafted, and generally,
given the runaround."

To seek redress in the courts, the Animal Legal Defense Fund has filed a
lawsuit against the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services and the Director of OMB. The case has not yet come to
trial. We hope that the separation of powers on which our government is
built will be effective in providing decent treatment for laboratory dogs
and primates. As Senator Dole and ten other Senators wrote to the Director
of OMB, "Not only must the 1985 Amendments be enforceable, but
implementation must lead to measurable improvements in animal care."
Since the executive branch has failed to carry out the will of the legislative

branch, the judicial branch of our government should impose the final
judgment.

Throughout the year, AWI representatives have continued to monitor and
to supply information and advice to the Department of Agriculture on the
administration of the Animal Welfare Act. This Act is the United States'
main federal law to protect animals. Without the sustained interest of AWI
and its companion organization, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, which works to obtain funding for enforcement of the Act.
laboratory animals would have virtually no protection by law.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

This monkey cannot mahkewte "nomalr ptosural adt'mandatd by law.
"P ' of “3 ional judgment" covers a multitude of sins.

AWI will continue to fight hard against the forces who are seeking to
reverse the progress made since the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was
passed in 1966. Humanitarians who have followed the law's genesis will
recall that NIH sought to substitute itself for the Department of Agn’culture
just before the U. S. Senate passed the bill. Last year, an amendment was
very nearly slipped in as a "rider" to a bill being passed by the Senate; had
it been adopted, the NIH "Guide on the Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals" would have been substituted for regulations promulgated by the
U. S. Department of Agriculture. This "Guide" leaves decision-making to
the "professional judgment" of the veterinarians employed by laborato-
ries. Constant vigilance is necessary to hold on to the Animal Welfare Act
and maintain its enforcement. Demand for more frequent inspections of
laboratories and dealers' premises should be expressed to the Secretary of
Agriculture by all humanitarians.

 

Publications

The fourth edition of Animals and Their Legal Rights was nearly ex-
hausted during the year, and funds for a second printing of another 10,000
copies are now being sought by AWI. The demand by public libraries,
chiefs of police and humane societies for single free copies was greater
than for any previous edition, and AWI's policy of selling the book at cost
price in order to ensure its wide use also contributes to the demand.

AWI members who are especially interested in protection for laboratory
animals will ﬁnd the chapter on this issue useful as background to the

 

Photo My Lifcforce

 




 

lawsuit described in the "Laboratory Animals" section of this report.
Members may obtain a copy on payment of their dues for the year.

The major publication currently in progress is the AWI book on animal
dealers. This is an extensive undertaking, including, as it does, inspections
by AWI of the premises of dog and cat dealers supplying laboratories from
1952 onwards, reports by experts on dealers in primates and wild birds, and
economic evaluation of the role of the multinational laboratory animal
breeders and dealers. We hope to publish within the coming year.

Trapping

 

Important progress was made in the European Community during the year
to end the use of the steel jaw leghold trap. The European Parliament voted
a recommendation that the Commission presented in the form of a
Regulation to the governing body, the Council of Ministers. A Regulation,
once adopted, is mandatory law for all the 12 member nations of the
European Community.

The Commission's proposed Regulation would prohibit the use of leghold
traps and importation into the Community of "pelts and manufactured
goods of certain wild animal species caught by means of this device."

On June 13, 1991,
the Council of Min-
isters meeting in
Luxembourg con-
sidered the Regula-
tion and adopted it
in principle. How-
ever, BriceLalonde,
Minister of the
Environment for
France, registered
an objection to the

 

.1 ‘ phraseology on the
A dead coyote who nearly succeeded inefreing htmselfﬁohz the trap. He lﬂdlCﬂth
steel jaw trap by severing his own foot. that French farmers

wanted to use so-called "padded" steel jaw traps for animal control.
Informed sources indicated that the powerful French hunting lobby had
intervened with the government to avoid a unanimous vote for the
Regulation. Eleven of the 12 nations who form the European Community
cast their votes in favor of it. *

In the United States, the National Trappers Association vowed to prevent
its passage and issued urgent appeals for funds to pay for the European trip
its representatives made to oppose the Regulation. The U. S. Trade

* On November 4, 1991 all 12 member nations approved the Regulation.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Representative’s ofﬁce sent a staff member to raise objections to the
proposed ban. He was accompanied by a leading apologist for the steel
jaw leghold trap from the State of Louisiana.

Meantime, the major U. S. trap manufacturer, The Woodstream Corpora-
tion, was sold to the EKCO Group, a manufacturer of housewares.

According to recent information provided by EKCO, trap sales have
dropped from $4-5 million down to less than $500,000.

The price of wild fur, most of which is obtained from animals caught by
steel jaw leghold traps, has plummeted. Trapper enthusiasm wanes with
the loss in fur income, and as a result fewer animals are trapped.

A review of statistics from 24 state game departments obtained by the Fund
for Animals illustrates a drop of 77% in the number of furbearers killed
from 1980 to 1990. Here are some of the dramatic drops in animal deaths:

 

State 1980 1990 State 1980 1990

Alabama 200,729 5,631 North Carolina 227,341 13,893
Arizona 65,964 3,720 Oklahoma 60,473 2,983
Georgia 120,710 15,119 South Dakota 179,800 18,500
Kansas 160,327 1,878 Texas 991,426 104,812

 

Whales and Dolphins

AWI backed publication by the Environmental Investigation Agency of
the second report in the series entitled The Global War Against Small
Cetaceans. The appalling slaughter of these charming, friendly little
whales and dolphins of a wide variety of species is even more shameful and
incomprehensible than the killing to near extinction of ten species of great
whales for their meat and oil.

There is but little commercial incentive to kill dolphins, yet in Chile
Commerson's dolphins and the dusky dolphin are threatened by killing for
crab bait.

In Japan, Dall's porpoise are speared with a hand harpoon that resembles
the cold harpoon banned by the International Whaling Commission (IWC)
in 1983. It has a steel, detachable head. After striking the porpoise, a steel
cable attached to the boat holds it while the boat goes on to strike more
members of the porpoise school. Death is caused by further speatin g of the
porpoise or by applying an electrical shock through the steel harpoon
head. Despite the grave danger to this beautiful species, its consumption
is promoted by canneries who sell it as "mini kujira" (small whale). It has
even reached the supermarket trade.

In the Faroe Islands, which enjoys a very high standard of living, pilot
whales are driven and gaffed in a sea of blood each year for the sake of
tradition and sport more than for meat, which is often wasted.

 

 




 

 

Several species of
dolphin have been
reduced to popula-
tions in the low hun-
dreds: the Mexican
vaquita, the Yangtze
dolphin, and the
Indus River dolphin.
The United States, ' 1‘, '
joined by 12 other ' ‘
countries, proposed
a resolution at the
1991 meeting of the
IWC protective of
these endangered species. But, at the last moment, the resolution was
withdrawn so it could not be voted on!

Unlike the 1990 meeting of the IWC in the Netherlands, this year's meeting
in Iceland favored the whalers rather than the whales. Iceland actually
withdrew from the IWC, though they have until next year's meeting in
Glasgow to decide whether to go through with it. They denied the report
issued by the Environmental Investigation Agency that they had sold most
of the meat from their "Scientific Whaling" enterprise to Japan, contrary
to the formal agreement made with the IWC. But they offered no
documentary proof for their statement and said they were conducting an
inquiry. So far, no results of the inquiry have surfaced.

"Management" of whales has never worked. In 1946, the IWC "managed"
whales by designating the different species as constituting various frac-
tions of "the blue whale unit": whalers could harpoon 2 fin whales, 2.5
humpback whales, or 6 sei whales as the equivalent of a blue whale, the
biggest mammal in the world It didn't take long to drive the blue whale to
commercial extinction, and the "whalers' club," as the IWC was commonly
referred to, put the blue whale on the "protected" list when, in the 1964-65
whaling season, no more than 20 couldbe found in the entire Antarctic. All
the great whales were on the road to extermination when Interior Secretary
Walter J. Hickel put them all on the U. S. Endangered Species List in 197 1.
Next, the U. S. Commissioner to the IWC devised a "New Management
Procedure" which he persuaded the whaling nations to accept, but though
it was said that for the ﬁrst time in history, whalers refrained from killing
every single ﬁn whale they sighted, the great whales continued their slide
towards extinction. Finally, the moratorium on commercial whaling was
adopted in 1985 by a vote of 25 to 7, but the whaling nations kept issuing
themselves "scientific permits" to kill whales, and this year the IWC

slipped back into its bad old habits by adopting a "Revised Management
Procedure."

 

Canned dolphin meat at Hokkaido, January 1991, being sold
for the first time in this and other areas of Japan.

 

Environmental Investigation Agency

 




 

 

The Commissioner from New Zealand was one of the few who declined
to vote for it, saying: "This is a subject of particular concern to my
delegation, not only because some of those whales spend part of their lives
within New Zealand waters but also because it represents the last great
whale stock on earth, in a region where more and more nations are coming
around to the view that the resources of the Antarctic should be preserved
for all time.

"No matter how scientifically sensible such a management procedure may
seem , it will appear to the people of New Zealand that we are repeating past
mistakes all over again — playing God, and reshaping the environment. It
will also seem that northern hemisphere whaling countries, having ruined
the stocks in their own hemisphere by overfishing, are now planning to
make massive inroads into the southern hemisphere. "

The battle to save the whales must continue, and their small relatives, the
dolphins, must gain international protection. The 1992 meeting of the
IW C is scheduled to take place in Glasgow, Scotland. AWI representa—
tives will fight to stop the killing.

Wild Birds

The decimation of wild-caught birds by the pet trade has, at last, gained
international attention from the airlines that have ﬂown them from Africa,
Asia and Latin America to the United S tates. Lufthansa, the biggest carrier
of birds, went out of the bird shipping business November 1990, setting
an example for over 40 other airlines to follow.

 

NBC showed footage obtained by the Environmental Investigation Agency
of the systematic robbing of nests of the beautiful Blue-fronted Amazon

 

A victim of Guyana'sbird trade .

Enivironmcntal Investigation Agency

 

 




 

parrots in Argentina. The rough treatment of the helpless nestlings, too
young to feed themselves, was depicted with awful accuracy, and their
shocking extent of mortality documented for television viewers across the
United States. EIA's Peter Knights was interviewed by NBC's Bob Hager.

In New Jersey, a bill banning importation and sale of wild-caught birds for
the commercial pet industry passed by huge majorities at every stage of its
progress through the legislature, despite intense opposition by the Pet
Industry Joint Advisory Council and its allies. The bill was signed into law
by Governor Florio, August 12, 1991. Assemblyman Bennett Mazur and
Senate President John Lynch led their respective legislative bodies in the
successful action.

In the U. S. Congress, two sets of bills were introduced: the Wild Bird
Protection Act, endorsed by AWI and some 200 organizations across the
country, HR. 2540, sponsored by Congressmen Gerry Studds and An-
thony Beilenson; and S. 1219, sponsored by Senators Max Baucus and
John Chafee. These legislators introduced, at the same time, a bill sup-
ported by the pet trade. Hearings on these proposals have not yet been held.

 

Elephants

AWI and other organizations petitioned the U. S . Fish and Wildlife Service
to list the African elephant in the “Endangered” category under the U. S.
Endangered Species Act. The government generally follows the lead of
the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora (CITES): when a species is listed on CITES Appendix I,
the "Endangered" classification, U. S. classiﬁcation as "Endangered"
usually results. However, after months of delay, the Service issued a
proposed ruling for a "split listing."

Zimbabwe, South Africa, and some other southern African countries want
to cull their elephants and sell the ivory in international commerce. They
are clamoring for Appendix 11 listing of elephants within their boundaries
at the next CITES meeting. Appendix II is the equivalent of the U. S.
Endangered Species Act's "Threatened" category.

The Fish and Wildlife Service proposed ruling was so controversial that
the deadline for submission of public comments was moved from July 15
to December 16, 1991.

Zimbabwe claims it "manages" elephants so well that it has to cull them
to keep their numbers down. At the same time, it begs for money to control
the poaching that is increasing in response to the very commerce Zimba-
bwe is seeking to revive. Zimbabwe has dug water holes which attract
elephants from other countries. Then it claims that too many elephants are
trampling the ground near the water holes, and they must be shot. It refuses
to release the data it has collected so that scientists in other countries could
examine it. Alleged increases in elephant numbers strain credibility.




 

AWI strongly opposes the "split
listing" because it would inevitably
lead to a revival of the disastrous
poaching and smuggling which was
driving the elephants to extinction
until the ban on international trade
in ivory was voted by the 100-plus
CITES nations at the 1989 meeting.

The international trade ban has
been an enormous boon to
elephants. The price of ivory has
dropped from $300 per kilo down to
$50, but there are signs of increasing
poaching and rising ivory prices in
Zimbabwe because dealers are bet-
ting on "split listings" being adopted
in the United States and at the next
meeting ofthe nations whobelong to An elephant rests her trunk on her tusk.
CITES: SChedUIed for Mb 1992 Ivory dealers want to reopen the trade,
in Kyoto, Japan. killing elephants for their tasks.

AWI continues to work closely with the Environmental Investigation
Agency, whose unparalleled fact-finding about the disastrous ivory trade
made the CITES Appendix I listing a reality and, with it, the enormous
drop in the price of ivory. The international ban on trade in all elephant
parts and products, hides, meat and ivory must be maintained.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal

Allan Thornton and Dave Currey, of the Environmental Investigation
Agency (EIA), received the Albert Schweitzer Medal from Senator John
Heinz September 24, 1990.

Senator Heinz' tragic death in a plane crash makes his stirring words of
encouragement especially poignant. He described the heroic undercover
work of the two medalists, calling it "already legendary in the environ-
mental movement." He cited their published documentation that has
proven over half a million dolphins are killed annually. His cautionary
words about dolphin protection were prophetic. He spoke as "somebody
who is proud of what the H. J. Heinz Company, with which I have had a
long association prior to this life, has done with their StarKist subsidiary,
but also would say that we should not rest on our past successes. The past
must be, and always will be, only a prologue. "

 

Speaking of "Dolphin Safe" tuna, he warned, " . . . there are those who
would undo the apparent gains . . . there are buyers on the docks of Bangkok
who are delighted when someone comes in with driftnets full of fish." The

 

 

 




 

10

continuing battles to protect dolphins from purse seines and driftnets show
how right he was.

In accepting the medal from Senator Heinz, Allan Thornton reviewed
EIA's efforts to protect dolphins. They began in Turkey in 1983 , where the
Black Sea dolphins were being killed for chicken food. Turkey was a
police state at the time, and the secret police took EIA's passports, saying,
"We’re coming back for your film." But in the end, the film wasn't seized,
the passports were returned, and 35 U. S. Senators successfully urged
Turkey to ban the hunting of dolphins in the Black Sea.

The medalists described some of their adventures in seeking the true facts
about the ivory criminals who are killing elephants to extinction. Thornton
told of the international ban on the ivory trade, noting that many hundreds
of thousands of people contributed to the ban and that it resulted in an
estimated decline in poaching of 80%.

Dave Currey told about the terrible sufferings of millions of wild birds
whose sale makes big profits for just ten dealers in Senegal. As the EIA
investigators played the role of a camera crew, the honorary French
Consul, who was deeply involved in the wildlife trade, told them about one
of his sources: "This guy’s coming because he’s got baboons. He wants
to sell them to me... I sell them to laboratories in Europe and the United
States. I think they cut them up into little pieces or something." This
callous commentary was actually made on camera! He has been removed
from his ofﬁcial position, but the same philosophy continues to inspire
massive trade.

"We are often told that wildlife has to pay," Dave Currey said. "If wildlife
is going to be saved, it has to be used sustainably. We got involved in the
elephant issue, and that was the dominant thought at that time, that
somehow the ivory trade was necessary; it was a necessary way to keep
elephants alive in Africa. But I can tell you, having been to Africa, having
been to the Middle East, having been to the Far East, it's not a very healthy
way of keeping elephants alive by shooting them for their ivory. These
traders want to make money. The less ivory around, the more valuable it
becomes. The less parrots around, the more valuable they are. The reality

of wildlife trade is far from the theoretical ideas of sustainable use of
wildlife."

Concluding the ceremony, Teresa Heinz, wife of the Senator and a true
friend of animals, told of the encouragement she gave to the idea of
"Dolphin Safe" tuna, which has been so splendidly carried out by StarKist.

Public Education

 

The major projects described in this Annual Report are supplemented by
the ongoing distribution of The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly, books,
films, articles and other educational materials and the active participation

 




 

 

of AWI representatives at the meetings listed in the report. Major
publications include Animals and Their Legal Rights, The Endangered
Species Handbook ,Beyond the Laboratory Door, Comfortable Quarters
for Laboratory Animals and Factory Farming: The Experiment That
Failed , single copies of which are distributed free of charge to libraries,
and sold at cost to the public.

The Animal Welfare Institute is an educational, charitable organization
devoted to reducing the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by
human beings.

 

Speeches Made and Meetings Attended
by AWI Representatives

International Whaling Commission meeting, July 1-6, 1990, Noordwijk, The
Netherlands.

American Veterinary Medical Association, annual meeting, July 22-25 , 1990, S an
Antonio, TX, AWI booth exhibit.

American Institute of Biological Sciences, annual meeting, August 6-8, 1990,
Richmond, VA, AWI booth exhibit.

Intemational Whaling Commission Interagency meetings, September 14, 1990;
January 24, March 12, and April 25, 1991, Washington, DC.

Meetings with Ray Bolze, Esq., on the African elephant, September 17, 1990;
February 8, March 20, and April 8, 1991, Washington, DC.

World Wildlife Fund, Cooperative Working Group on the Wild Bird Trade
meetings, September 20 and November 6, 1990; January 29, February 21, and
March 15, 1991, Washington, DC.

Presentation of the Schweitzer Medal to Allan Thornton and Dave Currey,
September 24, 1990, Washington, DC.

United States Animal Health Association, annual meeting, October 8-10, 1990,
Denver, CO, presentation by Cathy Liss on animal welfare issues of the 1990s.

Global Cetacean Coalition, November 9, 1990, Monterey, CA.

Biarmual meeting of the American Cetacean Society, November 10, 1990,
Monterey, CA.

Dolphin Coalition meetings, December 5 and December 12-13, 1990; January 25
and February 11, 1991, Washington, DC.

Rachel Carson Trust, December 8, 1990, Chevy Chase, MD, Christine Stevens
received the Rachel Carson Legacy Award for Notable Achievement in Sustaining
the Vision of Rachel Carson.

National Association of Biology Teachers, annual meeting, December 13-15,
1990, Washington, DC, AWI exhibit and showing of ABC News broadcast on
Carolina Biological Supply Company.

11

 




 

12

Monitor International Board Meeting, December 14, 1990, at National Airport,
Arlington, VA.

Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) preparatory
meetings, U. 8. Fish and Wildlife Service, December 18, 1990; March 11, 1991,
Arlington, VA.

Senator John Chafee’s Environmental Round Table, January 31, 1991,
Washington, DC.

African Wildlife Foundation elephant meeting, February 7, 1991, Washington,
DC.

Interagency meetings on driftnets, February 13 and April 19, 1991, Washington,
DC.

Meeting on Wild Bird Trade, February 21, 1991, Washington, DC, with Jim
Leape, Ginette Hemley.

South Florida Pet Show, February 22-24, 1991 , Coconut Grove, FL, AWI exhibit
received trophy for outstanding exhibit.

Meeting with Georgia Farm Bureau, February 25, 1991, Washington, DC,
Christine Stevens vs. Steve Kopperud of the Animal Industry Foundation.

Interagency meeting on UNCED (United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development), March 4, 1991, Washington, DC.

Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research conference, March 21-23, 1991,
Boston, MA, Cathy Liss gave speech entitled "Response to the USDA Regula-
tions."

U. S . Trade Representative’s Office, meeting on the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade, March 27, 1991, Washington, DC.

America’s Family Pet Show, April 19-21, 1991, Pomona, CA, AWI booth exhibit.

American Committee for International Conservation meeting, May 1, 1991,
Washington, DC.

U. S. Department of Agriculture Training Course for Public Veterinary Practice
Careers, May 6, 1991, Baltimore, MD, presentation by Cathy Liss, "The Animal
Welfare Act from AWI’s Viewpoint."

Marine Mammal Protection Act meeting, Arnold & Porter, May 17, 1991,
Washington, DC.

United States Department of Agriculture/National Institutes of Health, forum on
the new ISLA regulations, June 6, 1991, Washington, DC.

Meeting of Coalition on Wild Birds, June 13, 1991, Humane Society of the United
States, Washington, DC.

Meeting with Dr. and Mrs. Alexey Yablokov on animals in the Soviet Union, June
19, 1991, Washington, DC.

Weekly meetings of The Monitor Consortium, Washington, DC.
Quarterly meetings of the Endangered Species Act Coalition, Washington, DC.
Quarterly meetings of the Entanglement Network, Washington, DC.

 

 

 




 

 

 

@ THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

@. QUARTERLY

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly is distributed to about 23,000
individuals and organizations including public libraries, Deans of medi-
cal and veterinary schools, animal protective organizations, teachers,
scientists and AWI members. Following are summaries of some of the
articles not mentioned in the main body of this Annual Report.

 

FALL 1990, Vol.39, No. 3

Oil Spill Legislation. The United States Congress unanimously approved
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, aimed at oil spill prevention and shipper
liability sixteen months after the Exxon Valdez buried the shores of Prince
William Sound with crude oil.

Antarctica. Australia and France advocate “nature reserve status” and a
ban on mining.

New York. The State University of New York no longer compels students
to dissect animals in its basic biology course. The decision followed a
student's lawsuit against the university brought by the ASPCA and
Rutgers Urban Legal Clinic.

California. The California Wilderness Protection Act, which bans trophy
hunting of mountain lions in the state and allocates $30 million for the next
30 years for wildlife habitat was adopted by referendum.

 

WINTER 1990/91, Vol.39, No. 4

Carolina Biological Supply Company. The largest supplier of animals
for dissection in the US with annual sales between $25 and $30 million
was the subject of an ABC expose’. Film footage reveals cats still moving
when they are taken to the embalming table after being gassed and shows
them clenching their jaws as embalming ﬂuid is injected.

Beluga Whales. A group of Vancouver Aquarium employees face charges
of causing suffering to a beluga whale and dangerous operation of a marine
vessel in Canada.

Population. Phenomenal growth in human population is taking its toll as
natural habitats are paved over, built on, polluted, lumbered and mined,
driving many other species toward extinction.

 




 

SPRING 1991, Vol.40, No. 1

Respirators for Hog Confinement Buildings. The air is so foul and corrosive in factory
farms, the farmers need respirators for a two-hour stint in the atmosphere hogs are condemned
to breathe day and night till they are sent to the slaughterhouse.

Great Britain to Ban Sow Stalls and Tethers. Parliament votes 118 to 0.

Diamonds are for Death. Dredging the Boro River in the great unspoiled wilderness area
of the Okavango Delta in Botswana, has been put on hold, after intense local and international
pressure. The dredging was planned to increase the water supply for De Beers' Orapa
diamond mine.

Abusive Treatment. Blatant animal cruelty at the South St. Paul Stockyardin Minnesota was
documented on film, showing sick and injured, down and disabled farm animals dragged

 

 

with a chain or left to die slowly and painfully.

 

Animal Welfare Institute
Statement Of Support, Revenue, Expenses And Changes In Fund Balances

Year Ended June 30, 1991 With Comparative Totals for the Year Ended June 30, 1990

Totals
Unrestricted Restricted 1991 1990
Support and revenue: _ ——
Contributions:
Elephant campaign $ 65,824
Save The Whales campaign $1 15,947 $115,947 117,199
Pastureland farms 50,618
Other contributions $1 16,948 1 16,948 76,335
Foundations and trusts 67,500 67,500 146,500
Legacies and bequests 395,285 395,285 346,642
Memberships 26,227 26,227 25,656
Sale of publications
and reprints 5,802 5 ,802 8,059
Dividend income 18,61 1 18,61 1 15,844
Gain (loss) on sale of securities 2,379 2,379 (3,963)
Other income 1,875 1,875 1,3 83
Total support and revenue 634,627 115,947 750,574 850,097
Expenses:
Program services 416,633 108,065 524,698 550,100
Management and general 85,995 4,538 90,533 97,511
Fund-raising 35,539 1 ,568 37,107 29,523
Total expenses 53 8,167 114,171 652,338 677,134
Excess of support and
revenue over expenses 96,460 1,776 98,236 172,963
Fund balances at beginning of year 165,661 62,539 228,200 55,237
Fund balances at end of year $262,121 $326,436 $228,200

14

 

 

$ 64,315

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Int-than ol annn QM

Q‘nﬁnm nn‘ A: HI




 

 

Statement of Functional Expenses

Year Ended June 30, 1991

With Comparative Totals for the Year Ended June 30, 1990

Salaries
Payroll taxes and employment insurance
Medical insurance
Advertising
Animal Welfare Institute Quarterlies
Printing (except for Quarterlies)
Animals and Their Legal Rights - Fourth Edition
Research, writing and editing
Grants for whales, dolphins, elephants and wild birds
Conferences, meetings and travel
Postage, mailing and addressing costs

(except for Quarterlies)
Telephone, duplicating and ofﬁce supplies
Professional services
Membership and subscriptions
Acquisition of books and other educational material
Schweitzer Medal
Consultants - Domestic Animals
Consultants - Wildlife Protection
Elephant benefit
Miscellaneous

Total expenses before depreciation

Depreciation of ﬁxtures and equipment

Total expenses

Program Services

 

Public

Education Save The Pastureland Total

and Projects

Whales

Farms

 

$ 93,817
11,099
9,339

37,164
26,867
33,587
830
109,000
14,719

19,392
11,059
2,388
8,565
2,739
12,397

29,165

1 ,274
423,401
3,803

$427,204

$12,576
1,087

10,000

5,798
17,394

5,500
712

7,231
317

1 ,043

300

61,958

$61,958

$31,000

276

743

144
380
231
98
74

300

2,290
35,536

$35,536

$137,393
12,186
9,339
10,000
42,962
44,537
33,587
830

1 14,500
16,174

26,767
1 1,756
2,619
9,706
2,813
12,397
300
29,465

3,564
520,895
3,803
$524,698

 

Management Fund-

and General raising
$47,261 $ 8,587
4,917 762
4,043 584

 

1,536

3,738 5,940

748 13,065

2,3 88 609

9,717 5

10,500 6,287
172
2,817

l ,428
89,265

1,268
$90,533

31—836
1,268
$37,107

A copy of the entire f'macial statement is available upon request to the Animal Welfare Institute
or the New York State Board of Social Welfare, Albany, NY 12223

Certiﬁed Public Accountants Ernst and Young

 

1991
$193,241
17,865
13,966
10,000
44,498
54,215
33,5 87
830
1 14,500
29,987

29,764
21 ,478
19,406
9,878
5,630
12,397
300
29,465

4,992
645,999
6,339
$652,338

1990
$152,050
15,579
1 1,342
49,154
45,099
71,647
4,626
12,884
1 18,912
25,981

40,769
21,181
29,555
1 1,287

7,984

9,210
35,950
2,804
4,763
670,777

6,357
$677,134

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650 Washington, D. C. 20007

Directors

Madeleine Bemelrnans
Jean Wallace Douglas
David 0. Hill

Sue Hollingsworth
Freebom G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Roger L. Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freebom G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

International Committee

Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico

T. G. Antikas, D.M.V. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain - Bangladesh
Angela King - United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo - Canada

Godofredo Stutzin - Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan

Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. - Denmark
Alexey Yablokov - U.S.S.R.

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Bennet Derby, M .D.

F. Barbara Orlans, PhD.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

William J. Cotreau, Research Associate
Rosita Eck, Administrative Assistant
for Communications

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for Livestock and Poultry

Henry Herbermann, Publications
Coordinator

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Jeffrey F. Myatt, Administrative Assistant
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully
accepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the
Institute’s much—needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the
Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals.
Please remember the Institute in your will.

S uggested form of bequest:
I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of
(or if other property, describe the property).

dollars

 

 

 




 

 

TWENTY- SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE June 30,1977 to July 1,1978

 

 

 

 

YOKO MUTO RECEIVES SCHWEITZER MEDAL
FROM AMBASSADOR MANSFIELD

 

The Schweitzer Medal Ceremony took place at the American Embassy in
Tokyo this year when Ambassador and Mrs. Mike Mansfield received members
of the Japan Animal Welfare Society and the ambassadors of Britain and
Canada at the.presentation of the Albert Schweitzer Medal to Miss Yoko Muto.

Yoko Muto has devoted eight years of her life to caring for the thousands of
dogs subjected to experimental surgery in one half of the University of Tokyo
Medical School. The part of the school in which she works houses hundreds of
dogs in concrete stalls outside the main building. The immediately post-
operative animals are in a single large room where Miss Muto keeps a thin soup
cooking for them and provides them with clean blankets to sleep on. She per-
sonally waits upon them stroking and encouraging them to survive the drastic
surgery to which many of them have been subjected. She coaxes them to
swallow a few mouthfuls of soup. She gives them pain relieving drugs. The dogs
who survive love her. Out in the pens, those who have recovered lean on their
chains to peek around the edges of their stalls, wagging their tails, because they
know they will see her.

In the other half of the Medical School, an impressive looking building which
cost millions of dollars to erect, the dogs are housed in cramped cages from
which they are never released for exercise. The cages are made of expensive
metal bars, and the dogs are compelled to perch on these bars. their toes cling—
ing as if they were birds. The dogs” feet are inflamed. the webs between their
toes pathologically red and sore. The bars are not fixed. They roll. Underneath
the urine and feces accumulate. and when these pathetic dogs attempt to wag
their tails to greet visitors. the tails dip into the filth and splash all over the dogs
and cages. Thus is “sanitation" carried out in Tokyo University Medical School
—except for the part in which Yoko Muto works.

Experimental surgery carried out under such conditions makes a mockery of
medical research. It recedes to the days before Lister and Semmelweiss
discovered the importance of cleanliness for surgical patients.

Yoko Muto, under difficult circumstances, working six days a week without
any holidays (for otherwise, the dogs would not have been fed nor their quarters
cleaned) has kept her charges as comfortable as possible and she has given them
confidence of their worth. She gave the monetary part of her award to the dogs
themselves because she knows their need.

As ambassador Mansfield said in awarding the medal “She has been singled
out for her willingness to go that extra mile to help animals."

 

ANTI-WHALING ACHIEVEMENTS AND SETBACKS

 

The AWI has continued an aggressive campaign throughout the year to end
commercial whaling. A half—page advertisement carried worldwide in Time
magazine June 19, 1978 brought the plight of the whales to approximately 40
million readers in more than 150 countries.

A half-page ad in The London Times, June 24, just two days before the
IWC’s annual meeting featured Brian Jackman's report (London Sunday Times,
June 18) on alleged violations by a Russian whaling captain. including killing of
undersized whales, mothers and infants, and grossly exceeding the quotas.

Several AWI public service ads were run in To The Point International calling
for a moratorium on commercial whaling.

A sixteen-page submission for the Inquiry on Whales and Whaling of the
Government of Australia was prepared by the Institute. The Inquiry was the
result of widespread demand for a cessation of whaling. AWI worked actively
with Australian groups in the campaign there. The announcement by the
Cheynes Beach Whaling Company, on the first day of the Inquiry, that it had
decided to end its whaling operations represented a major victory for whale pro—
tection forces.

The AWI President attended two meetings of the International Whaling Com-
mission (IWC) during the year; at the Special Meeting in Tokyo as a member of
the United States delegation, and at the London meeting as a representative of
the African Wildlife Leadership Foundation. Delegates have no opportunity to
speak, but five minutes are allocated to non-governmental organizations.
Following are excerpts from the statement made by the AWI President:

“In her farewell speech to the IWC, the Mexican Commissioner, Miss
Fuentes-Berain predicted sadly that the Commission would go down in history
as a body that put the interests of a few whalers ahead of thousands of whales.

“Now the situation has changed from prejudiced actions to outright scandal as
we learn that the two biggest whaling nations are no longer satisfied to argue
their case in the Commission but are ruthlessly circumventing it. You have
before you the news of Japanese economic pressure on Panama to withdraw
the agenda items 9.1 and 9.2 for ten year moratoria.

“Japan is apparently acting to prevent a properly scheduled vote which
member nations have carefully considered. To quote from Eco: Three weeks
ago

“Mr. Kuniaka Asomura, director of the Fisheries Division of the Economics
Bureau of Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in meetings with Panama's
Minister of Industry, Mr. Julio Sosa, described Panama’s moratorium proposal
as ‘an unfriendly action’, which, if adopted, would force Japan to quit the IWC.
He then threatened to cancel Japan’s planned purchase from Panama of
50,000 metric tons of sugar, a 5 million pound deal, if the moratorium proposal
was not withdrawn. The threat was effective, apparently. Last week, Minister
Sosa cabled Panama’s ambassador to London, ordering that the moratorium be
withdrawn.’

“As for the Soviet Union, I would quote from The London Sunday Times,
June 18th:

‘Russian whalers have slaughtered nearly 2,000 more whales this year than
their international quota allows according to a unique protest by a new type of
Russian dissident which has just come into the hands of The Sunday Times.’...

“This is by no means the first time that protests have been made about the kill-
ing of undersized or protected whales, and it is unlikely to be the last so long as
the present monitoring system - so clearly open to abuse - remains in force.

“Most whales are killed by Russia and Japan - both IWC members — and the
only way a check is kept on their ships is by the exchange of observers: Russians
on the Japanese ships and Japanese on the Russian ones...

“If this Commission conducts business as usual at this meeting, if it fails to ex—
amine seriously the charges of economic blackmail by Japan and illegal whaling
by the rogue Russian captain, the 15 nations who lend their names to this body
will be acting out a grotesque parody of an international agreement and submit-
ting their names - as sovereign states - to an impotent rubber stamping of wilful.
immoral actions by the Soviet Union and Japan.”

Quotas voted at the Tokyo meeting in December went up by nearly 6,000
whales. At the London meeting, little reduction was made in these high quotas;
only 65 more whales were actually protected from slaughter in the course of the
voting as compared with the previous year. Decisions on quotas in the North
Pacific and Southern Oceans for Sperm whales were put off for a special
meeting.

Throughout the year AWI has assisted whale protectors by the provision of
AWI fliers, bumper stickers, buttons, posters and T-shirts and by rental of films
for classes, demonstrations and exhibitions in all parts of the country.

To assist in the development of knowledge of whale populations AWI made a
small grant to the College of Natural Resources, Utah State University for the In-
ternational Conference on the Population Dynamics of Large Mammals. The
extreme weakness of the data base hasplayed a major role in the decimation of
whale populations because the industry has succeeded in persuading scientists
into false beliefs over and over again.

A circular letter was sent May 19, 1978 to over 25,000 friends of whales ask-
ing tHem to write to the heads of state of IWC member nations to support the
proposal for a moratorium on pelagic (deep sea) whaling. This is the first time
that such a proposal has been made. It was not voted upon because it was
withdrawn under pressure. But this very fact demonstrates the importance of the
worldwide citizen protest against commercial whaling.

 

 

SUPREME COURT RULES TO PROTECT FUR SEALS

 

On January 9, 1978 the Supreme Court denied the Fouke Company‘s peti~
tion which would have permitted importation by the fur company of seal skins
from South Africa. Len Meeker of the Center for Law and Social Policy fought
the case on behalf of the seals in accordance with the provisions of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act. He represented six humane and conservation groups
including the AWI first in the District Court, (Animal Welfare Institute v. Richard—
son, 1976), next in the Court of Appeals, (Animal Welfare Institute v. Kreps,
1976). and then in the Supreme Court, (The Fouke Company, Petitioner v.
Animal Welfare Institute et al. Respondents, 1977).

The questions on which the Supreme Court made its decision were 1)
whether the animal protection and conservation organizations have standing to
challenge a waiver by the Secretary of Commerce of the moratorium on impor—
tation on Marine Mammal products and 2) whether the Marine Mammal Protec—
tion Act's (MMPA) prohibition against importing such products from animals that
were nursing or were less than eight months old was contravened by a decision
by the Secretary of Commerce to permit entry into the United States of skins
from young seals considered by the Secretary not to be “obligatory for the
physical health and survival of the nursing animal."

In his successful brief. Mr. Meeker cited a veterinary report that “many
animals were observed to vomit milk. Their use for pelts would appear to be ex—
plicitly prohibited by the US. Marine Mammal Protection Act as it now reads."
Mr. Meeker stated: “In the opinion of the Marine Mammal Commission. the ex-
pert body established by Congress in the MMPA, there is no basis whatever for
the notion of ‘obligate Nursing.” " He noted further that the National Marine
Fisheries Service regulation was “evidently contrived as a means to make possi—
ble the importation of seal skins from South Africa in the face of the statutory
prohibition."

He concluded: “In summary, the distinction sought to be drawn by the
Department of Commerce between ‘convenience' and ‘obligate' nursing is
specious. It has no basis in the legislative history, it has been discredited by the
Marine Mammal Commission. and it defies the plain language of the statute.
Promulgation of the Department of Commerce regulation creating this distinc~
tion exceeded the scope of that Department’s authority because the regulation
modifies substantially the language of the statute it was empowered to ad
minister. Therefore, the regulation was not validly promulgated and cannot
stand."

 

 

TRAPPING

 

Collection and dissemination of information on the cruel leghold trap and on
less painful substitutes has been a major activity of AWI since 1973 when the In-
stitute published the second edition of Facts About Furs by F. Jean Vinter, M.D.
At this year‘s conventions of the American Veterinary Medical Association. the
National Association of Biology Teachers, and the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, booth exhibits featuring educational displays on the
subject were presented by the Institute.

Center of attention was one of the traps victims. a young cat. whose left back
leg was severed when she was caught in the steel jaws as a tiny kitten. She was
one of the many “non-target" or “trash animals" that suffer the same pain and
mutilation as the fur bearers for which the traps are set. Molly was fortunate in
being rescued and receiving needed veterinary care. including amputation of her
entire leg after infection set in. She is now a healthy, affectionate animal who has
made many friends at AWI booths and taught them by her presence what the
leghold trap is doing to animals both domestic and wild.

A‘v‘v’l representatives have met repeatedly with officials of the US. Fish and
Wildlife Service, with designers and manufacturers of alternative methods of
capturing wild animals and with furriers and fur buyers with a view to obtaining
substitution for present painful trapping methods. Testing of a cable—coated leg
snare, now in use in Sweden where the leghold trap is banned. has been in-
stigated as a result of AWI requests.

AWI presentations on the subject have been given during the year on radio,
television, and a lecture film series (The AT&T Pioneer Series) as well as at
elementary and secondary schools.

Material from all parts of the world is being collected with a view to prepara—
tion of a new edition of Facts About Furs.

 

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

A comprehensive survey of animal suffering in scientific institutions as describ-
ed in current journals was undertaken this year. Research Assistant Jeff Diner
has compiled 200 pages of a report to be issued during the coming year. Inten—
sive reading of scientific papers reporting on animal experiments was under-
taken by AWI during the 1950’s and 60's. The new report focuses on papers
published in the late 1970’s and will extensively cover experimentation in
psychology departments in addition to medical research.

In order to obtain photographs of optimum laboratory animal housing for the
new edition of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals institutions were
requested to submit photographs and descriptive material of any outstandingly
comfortable accommodation for animals. To be sure that the best available infor-
mation would be included in the publication, which is free on request to any
laboratory, the USDA veterinary inspectors who regularly visit 2,100 research
sites throughout the country were requested to provide a listing to AWI of all in-
stitutions in which they had seen above average quarters. Many of the institu—
tions responded and provided slides and photographs of which the best were
selected for publication in the AWI manual.

The Federation of American Scientists (FAS) issued a Public Interest Report
special issue on animal rights, October, 1977 which made a number of generous
references to AWI’s work for laboratory animals, particularly praising the AWI
film, “Laboratory Dogs” for taking the problem of exercise seriously. Dr. Jeremy
Stone, author of the FAS Report, noted on this subject,

“The extreme unwillingness of the community of experimenters to challenge
the authority of individual experimenters is evident in the Guide for Care of
Laboratory Animals prepared by a Committee of the National Research Council
composed of ten doctors of veterinary medicine.

“For example, in discussing the ‘widely debated” question of exercise. it
observes:

‘Confinement in a cage has been equated by some with lack of exercise
and physical or psychological discomfort while regular release from con-
finement has been equated with exercise and physical or psychological
well-being. However, confinement in a cage per se does not necessarily in-
fluence the amount of exercise an animal engages in, and it does not
necessarily affect an animal’s well-being.’

“Having made this hedged observation, so at odds with common sense, it
goes on to leave the matter of exercise to ‘professional judgment‘ and to preface
its very few suggestions with the phrase ‘If exercise is needed’. Its only en-
couragement to the construction of out-of—cage space for dogs appears as the
‘practical' reason that “In addition to providing more opportunity for exercise
pens or runs also provide a convenient place to hold dogs while their cages are
being cleaned’. In short, exercise for the dog is put forward diffidently as a con—
venience for the experimenter.

“Even these kinds of uncontroversial observations are limited in the introduc-
tion to the guide by assertions of the Guide’s ‘permissive language and intent’,
and by observations that the Guide was not intended to ‘limit the investigators
freedom’.”

Despite this acute analysis, many laboratory dogs are still permanently con—
fined to cages and the effort to obtain their release to decent sized areas must
continue.

 

PUBLICATIONS

 

A research project culminating in an important publication this year was
undertaken together with the World Wildlife Fund, Humane Society of the
United States, Fund for Animals, and Defenders of Wildlife. “The Bird
Business,” by Greta Nilsson is the first comprehensive study of the importation

of birds into the United States. AWI provided major funding, distribution, and
publicity. The 81-page report has been widely quoted in the press, bringing the
tragic destruction of bird populations in the wild to the attention of millions who
previously were unaware of the cruelty to the birds in transit and pressure toward
extinction of species. In the summary under “Mortality Totals for Quarantine
Stations Year of 1976" we learn. “A total of 103,814 birds were either refused
entry. were dead on arrival or died in the quarantine station of various causes.
This figure represents 36.7% of the total number of birds offered for importa-
tion." Quarantine is carried out to prevent spread of the lethal Exotic Newcastle
Disease which cost $100,000,000 to eradicate in an outbreak causedby a
Mynah bird imported for the pet trade. The major recommendation made by
Ms. Nilsson after completing the study is to ban the importation of birds for com-
mercial purposes for sale as pets. The study has been presented by AWI to am—
bassadors of nations involved in the wild bird trade and to other concerned of-
ficials here and abroad.

In a feature article “The Jungle Crusade of Holly Parrot," initiated by “The
Bird Business" David R. Zimmerman wrote: (The New York Times magazine
section, August 6, 1978) “For each parrot that an owner carries home from the
pet store, Miss Nilsson says, four have died en route. The survivors, even if sick,
can fetch a good price. as she found last year when she visited Parrot Jungle, a
pet store in Queens, with Donald Bruning, assistant curator of birds at the Bronx
Zoo...They found two exotic ~ and delicate — hyacinth macaws from Brazil of—
fered for $8,000 apiece, and 65 other parrots, most with their wings clipped.
Some of the others were priced at $1,500 and $700. Half the birds in the store
were ill, Bruning said, with symptoms that included ocular discharge, glazed
eyes, patchy feathers, shaking and listlessness, and the store diet was ‘entirely
inadequate' for these species."

At press time for this report, Animals and Their Legal Rights was in press with
distribution of the third revision of this unique paperback book due in the winter.
The new edition will be 294 pages long and will cover the substantial amount of
legislation enacted since the 1970 edition was published. It also has several
chapters on subjects not fully addressed in former editions. This original material
was written by distinguished experts in their fields, for example, Greta Nilsson on
birds, Shirley McGreal on primates, Mary Anderson on turtles, and Ruth Hare
rison on animals in factory farms.

In preparation with publication expected in early 1979 is the new edition of
Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals which will be distributed free on
request to scientific institutions to aid architects. administrators, and scientists in
obtaining improvements in the housing of different species of animals in
laboratories. The manual will be over 100 pages long and include 150
photographs.

The following publications continue to list AWI materials which are distributed
free on request to school teachers and at cost to others: “List of Free Materials
Available to Educators," “699 Free Things for Teachers,” “The Rainbow Book."
“Science and Children." “Elementary Teachers Guide to Free Curriculum
Material," “Free and Inexpensive Learning Materials," “Encyclopedia of
Associations." “The Whole Kids Catalog," and “Educator Index of Free
Materials."

The Superintendent of Science Fairs of the District of Columbia. Thomas
Diggs. this year required that all Science Fair projects be humane. Projects in-
volving animal suffering were barred from exhibition. AWI supplied 250 copies
of the 1977 edition of Humane Biology Projects for use in each high school
science classroom to encourage humane attitudes toward animals.

This manual was put on display at a series of teachers' conventions through
“The Combined Book Exhibit."

During the year the following manuals and reprints were distributed free on re—
quest to school teachers and at cost to others:

1,500 Animal Expressions, 300 Facts About Furs, 14,280 Let Us Live trap-
ping leaflets, 700 The Bird Business. 927 Basic Care of Experimental Animals,
1,322 First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 11.000 Humane Biology Projects,
600 Dognapping booklets and over 20,000 reprints and leaflets.

The Whale Campaign materials distributed during the year included 130,000
fliers, 1.800 Vanishing Giant booklets. 1.194 T—shirts, 1.350 whale posters
1,500 whale prints. 13.500 petitions. 20,000 bumper stickers, 15,000 buttons
and over 38.000 special reports on the International Whaling Commission
Meetings.

 

INFORMATION REPORTS

 

Last year over 120,000 copies of the Information Report were sent to AWI
members, public libraries, the members of the Federation of American Societies
for Experimental Biology. Deans of Medical and Veterinary Medical Schools,
humane societies and thousands of individual veterinary teachers, scientists, ad—
ministrators and libraries who have requested them. The Information Reports
are issued quarterly.

Articles on subjects not already mentioned in this report include a summary of
major enforcement actions under the Marine Mammal Protection Act and the
Endangered Species Act 1976-77 by the US. Department of Commerce begin-
ning with a $5000 fine paid by Japanese M/V Dairyo Maru for importation of
whale meat, including $25,000 in fines paid by Delbay Pharmaceuticals, Dome
Laboratories, Richardson-Merrell, and Almay for interstate commerce in pro-
ducts containing spermaceti, and a $32,500 fine paid by Werner G. Smith, Inc.
for interstate sale and exportation of sperm whale oil and spermaceti (430
counts). Chic-In Leather Corporation forfeited 420 sealskins valued at $11,000.
(Vol. 26, No. 3).

Hearings to Protect Elephants was the title of an article (Vol. 27 No. 1) which
reported on the Beilenson bill, HR. 10083, which was heard in the House Mer-
chant Marine and Fisheries Committee. Although there was no Congressional
action on the bill, the US. Department of the Interior placed the African
Elephant on the list of Threatened Species and restricted importation of ivory as
a result of the hearings. A table prepared by the leading African elephant expert,
Dr. Iain Douglas-Hamilton, appeared in this issue showing the appalling decima—
tion of the once great herds in more than thirty countries.

“Eagle Rescued from Leghold Trap" was illustrated with photographs of an
eagle flying with a trap attached to his leg. The photographer and reporter
recommended: “Outlaw the use of the old-style non-offset jaw ‘bonecrusher’ "
He added, “It is obvious that laws relating to bait placement are being violated,
or birds of prey would not be caught.” (Vol. 27, No. 1)

“Alternatives for Inhumane Science Fairs" by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., a
member of AWI’s Scientific Advisory Committee appeared in Vol. 27, No. 2. It
demonstrated the difference between science fair projects in states without
humane regulation and those in California where the law states: “No live
vertebrate animal shall be experimentally medicated or drugged in a manner to
cause painful reactions or induce painful or lethal pathological conditions..." in
public or secondary school projects.

 

 

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES MADE
BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

 

American Veterinary Medical Association Meeting, Atlanta, Georgia, July
11-14, 1977. AWI booth exhibit “Animal Problems Veterinarians Can Help
Solve."

American Telephone and Telegraph Pioneer Series, Washington, DC, July
25, 1977 and June 23, 1978. Bianca Beary spoke on “The Cruelties of the
Leghold Trap." .

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Hyattsville. Maryland, October
18. 1977. Meeting to discuss proposed regulations on care and housing of cap-
tive marine mammals.

U.S. Animal Health Association Convention, October 19, 1977, Min-
neapolis, Minnesota. AWI President attended Animal Welfare Committee
meeting.

National Biology Teachers Convention, Anaheim, California, October 20-23.
1977. AWI booth exhibit on trapping.

Albert Schweitzer Symposium, Wingspread, Racine, Wisconsin, October 21,
1977. AWI President spoke on Dr. Schweitzer’s call for a boundless ethics to in—
clude the animals also.

International Whaling Commission meeting, Tokyo, Japan, December 6-7,
1977. AWI President served on US. delegation.

US. Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, DC, February 1. 1978.
Meeting with Deputy Director and staff to discuss alternatives to the leghold trap.

American Association for the Advancement of Science, Washington, DC,
February 13—16, 1978. AWI booth exhibit “Should Scientists Who Care, Care
About Animals?"

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Washington, DC. In-
teragency meetings on US. participation in the International Whaling Commis-
sion meeting, February 21, May30, June 25, 1978 and in the Copenhagen
renegotiation of the Convention on Whaling. March 13. April 11, 1978.

Albert Schweitzer Medal Presentation. The medal was awarded at a
ceremony at the American Embassy, Tokyo, Japan. April 4, 1978. Miss Yoko
Muto received the award from Ambassador Mike Mansfield.

National Food Policy Conference, “Treatment of Food Animals", April 21,
1978. AWI President spoke on cruelty to animals in factory farms. AWI booth
exhibit. .

American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquaria, Washington, DC,
April 26, 1978. Meeting on legislation and regulations affecting zoos and
oceanariums.

National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland. May 3, 1978. Meeting with
the Director and staff on requirements for humane treatment of laboratory
animals used by NIH grantees.

International Whaling Commission meeting, London, England, June 26-30,
1978. AWI president spoke on circumvention of the IWC by whalers.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC. Attended weekly meetings.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing in-
come tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for
the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute's much-
needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the Institute will help
guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals. Please remember the
Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest:

I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum, of .......... dollars (or if
other property, describe the property).

8

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.
Paul Kiernan, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. (United Kingdom)
Angela King (United Kingdom)

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. (Greece)

David Ricardo (Canada)

Godofredo Stutzin (Chile)

Directors and Officers
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger Stevens, Treasurer
John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Christabel Gough

David Hill

Aileen Train

Staff

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Assistant
Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE/ STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES

Year Ended June 30, 1978

 

Program Serviées

Supporting Services

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Public Management Total
Education Save The And Fund All

And Projects Whales Total General Raising Expenses

Salaries $ 26,724 $ 8,460 $ 35,184 $ 6,597 $ 2,200 $ 43,981
Payroll taxes 2,355 1,219 3,574 586 245 4,405
Newspaper ads against commercial whaling 40,375 40,375 4,667 45,042
Publications and subscriptions of educational materials 9,592 3,436 13,028 546 1,560 15,134
Information reports 7,420 487 7,907 294 1,049 9,250
Newsletter releases 2,994 3,136 6,130 656 315 7,101
Humane Biology Projects 4,175 4,175 4,175
Booklets and brochures on specific care of animals 2,388 1,310 3,698 190 151 4,039
Schweitzer Award for service 454 454 454
Promotion banners and media 8,005 8,005 450 440 8,895
Convention lectures 2,236 3,202 5,438 926 218 6,582
Postage, mailing and addressing costs 14,227 10,568 24,795 3,874 2,030 30,699
Stationery, printing and office expense 6,764 5,832 12,596 4,426 1,580 18,602
Professional services 484 484 3,322 3,806
Memberships, annual report and other 888 3,025 3,913 507 266 4,686
Total expenses before depreciation 80,701 89,055 169,756 22,374 14,721 206,851
Depreciation on fixtures and equipment 110 208 318 445 763
TOTAL EXPENSES $ 80,811 3 89,263 $170,074 3 22,819 3 14,721 $207,614

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed in U.S.A.

design: Robert J. Benson / Cachalot Design Group / Marblehead MA

 

 




     

    

 

1979 DEMAND A MORATORIUM ’5? l. T "  1 '1' 9:

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington DC. 20007

JANUARY JANVIER

 

 

 

JULY JUILLET

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lunde Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1 234567 891011121314

 

15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 14 25 26 27 28

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12345678

 

9

10 11 12 13 1415 16 17 18 19 20 21 22

 

 

29 30 31

23

24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31

 

 

FEBRUARY EEvaR

AUGUST Aoﬁ'r

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1234 567891011

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12345 6789101112

 

 

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25

13

14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

 

 

26 27 28

 

 

MARCH MARS

 

27

28 29 30 31

 

 

 

‘ " ‘ V 'vhaO .93 {1‘15 195*" it

7|._II>H|) .’
--n,..,.

a
\\

SEPTEMBER SEPTEMBRE

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1234 567891011

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12 3456789

 

 

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25

10

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23

 

 

26 27 28 29 30 31

24

25 26 27 28 29 30

 

 

APRIL AVRIL

OCTOBER OCTOBRE

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1 2345678

Monday
Lundi

1

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 91011121314

 

 

9 10 11 12 13 1415 16 17 18 19 20 2122

15

16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28

 

 

23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30

29

30 31

 

 

 

 

 

 

MAY MAI

'4“?
’17;
”'1’?
iv“ "4

.l
u ' 1
.‘r :Lﬁ'.a‘;3""
’ ' 5'."
.j. "“

 

NOVEMBER

N OVEMBRE

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday ‘Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

123456 78910111213

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1234 567891011

 

 

14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27

12

13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25

 

 

28 29 30 31

26

27 28 29 30

 

 

JUNE JUIN

DECEMBER DECEMBRE

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

123 45678910

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12 3456789

 

 

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24

10

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23

 

 

25 26 27 28 29 30

24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31

 

 

whale illustrations: Copyright Denver Museum of Natural History illustrator: Richard Ellis

design: Robert J. Benson / Cachalot Design Group / Marblehead MA

Printed in USA.

 




 

TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

‘ NIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

\
$‘
‘

 

June 3, 1976 to July 1, 1977

 

 




 

PRESIDENT OF COSTA RICA
RECEIVES SCHWEITZER MEDAL

 

President Daniel Oduber is the first Head of State to receive the Albert Schweitzer
Award of the Animal Welfare Institute. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, Schweitzer
Medalist in 1958, made the presentation before an audience of five hundred AWI
members and friends and representatives of the Diplomatic Corps assembled in the
largest Senate hearing room. President Carter telephoned President Oduber during the
ceremony to express good wishes.

The medalist was selected in recognition, as Senator Humphrey stated, “of his efforts in
creating an outstanding network of national parks in Costa Rica’s forests and coastlands
to preserve unspoiled a homeland and refuge for that country’s native wildlife, including
species that otherwise could disappear. The park development...” Humphrey continued,
“is a monumental project. The vision and commitment demonstrated by Costa Rica is an
example to countries with far greater resources and countries that could well undertake
the same kind of activity.”

Responding, President Oduber said in part, “The recently established Corcovado
National Park is one of the few regions in the world that effectively protect a large area of
undisturbed tropical rain forest and its associated wild life. Among the endangered
species that find shelter in this and other parks in Costa Rica are the manatee, Baird’s
tapir, jaguar, hawksbill turtle, giant anteater, titi monkey, the lovely quetzal and many
other species. To continue this work, and to reach our target of conserving 25% of our
national territory can be expensive. Nevertheless, we are determined to press on with our
programs.” It is hoped that other nations will follow this bold aim of conserving one
quarter of their territory in natural, unspoiled condition, allowing mammals, birds and
other creatures to live undisturbed by destructive activities.

 

SEALS, DOLPHINS, AND WOLVES
ARE WINNERS IN COURT

 

The Animal Welfare Institute in conjunction with fellow animal protective and
environmental groups won protection for three persecuted groups of animals through
law suits this year.

In a decision announced July 27, Judge S. Kelly Wright ruled that the Fouke Fur
Company could not import the skins of South African fur seals that were nursing or less
than eight months old. He ruled that the group represented by Len Meeker of the Center
for Law and Social Policy had standing in the case. The Commerce Department’s attempt
to allow Fouke to import the skins of the juvenile seals in contravention of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act was thus overruled by the bench. Observations of the young
seals pathetically vomiting milk as they were unskillfully clubbed on South African
beaches were submitted in evidence. Few Americans wear seal skin coats any more, but
the Fouke Company exports the skins it cures to international markets.

A series of court cases were won for the dolphins killed in tuna purse seines by William
Butler of the Environmental Defense Fund representing AWI and a number of like
minded organizations. The series of victories caused the industry to go back to fishing
under current regulations of the Marine Mammal Protection Act under which they had
claimed it was impossible to operate. The industry’s attempt at undermining the law itself
was equally unsuccessful. Early reports indicate that the use of properly designed fine
mesh panels on the purse seines and greater care in releasing dolphins from the nets is

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

leading to massive reductions in previous kill levels. ..

A series of court actions to prevent gunning down of Alaskan wolves from helicopters
has been undertaken by the Natural Resources Defense Council and Defenders of
Wildlife with financial assistance from AWI and other interested groups. While the wolves
are not yet safe from an “experiment” designed to kill 80% of them, the killing was held
up due to the legal action.

>1? Tsw ’le
. L "-';s.:-.;11’.-'?3*‘"a%« mm C Cl 11/”
- .- 1” 3.453911; W”

  
 
  

40’

   

    

ﬁ\\§\\‘\\“
\\ \\\\ \\\\\

 

       

 

 

-.'—.__

a... .....

THE WHALERS IN RETREAT

 

The largest quota cut voted in the history of the International Whaling Commission was
achieved at the Canberra, Australia meeting, June 21-24. A reduction of 10,110 whales
from last year was voted by the Commissioners of the seventeen member countries. The
36% cut brought the total number of whales allowed to be killed by lWC member
countries to 17,800 for the coming year. Resolutions were passed against transfer of
whaling vessels and equipment to non-IWC countries or purchase of whale products from
such countries.

The AWI took a leading role in organizing demonstrations worldwide on “Whale
Survival Day” just before the Canberra meeting. In Lafayette Park across from the White
House a large gathering of friends of whales heard Professor George Small condemn the
sordid economics of commercial whaling and interrupted his speech with repeated bursts
of applause. More than 3,000 members of the crowd signed petitions that were flown
directly to Canberra by the President of AWI, an observer at the week-long meeting. A
huge model of a whale, on a flat-bed truck drew attention to the rally; stars of stage and
television spoke for the whales and sang for them; an original whale ballet was performed
on the lawn, and country music entertained at the opening and closing of the event,
which focussed appreciation of President Carter’s “Saving the Whales” section of his May
23rd Environmental Message. A blow-up of the text on a big sign and a 20-foot banner
decorated with leaping whales expressed thanks to the President.

Demonstrations coordinated by the Whale Defenders Coalition (AWI, Friends of
Cetaceans, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace, and Project Jonah) took place in London,
Paris, Auckland, Vancouver, Ottawa, San Francisco, Zurich, Vienna, and Hocheim.
AWI developed a cross country series of demonstrations in the United States.

In Australia, the press responded warmly to the Save the Whales campaign and
reported daily with long, illustrated articles and front-page reports of what was happening
in the meetings, closed to the press and guarded by police.

The AWI coordination of the boycott campaign against Japanese and Russian goods
continues. Total number of demonstrations since the campaign began has now risen to
463. Public service ads have been appearing regularly in To the Point International, and
The International Herald- Tribune carried an AWI public service ad to save the whales just
before the Canberra meeting.

International press coverage was larger than ever before. The star reporter of the IWC
meeting, Joseph Glascott of The Sydney Morning Herald, headlined a piece in which he
interviewed the Soviet and Japanese Commissioners, “The Whalers in Retreat. ”
Commissioner Nikonorov was quoted as describing the Russian whaling industry as
“small but expensive”. It costs the Soviet Union $95,000,000 a year to keep its four
whaling fleets on the oceans, according to Nikonorov.

 

 




 

 

PUBLICATIONS

 

Major publication of the year was the newly revised Humane Biology Projects, a
manual whose previous edition has gone through eight printings, so popular has it been
with high school science teachers.

Emphasis is placed on the role students and teachers can play in protection of wildlife
and the environment generally. New chapters include “You as a Guardian of Nature”
and “You as the Subject of Study.” Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, a member of the AWI
Scientific Advisory Committee, wrote the latter chapter which also appears in her recently
published book Animal Care From Protozoa to Small Animals, (Menlo Park, California
Addison—Wesley Publishing Co., 1977). Dr. Marjorie Anchel, another very active
member of the Committee, contributed to the new edition as did her colleague in the New
York Botanical Garden, Dr. Karl Niklas. Other contributors to whom the AWI is grateful
for interesting new material are Dr. Van Flyger, Professor of Wildlife Biology, and, Dr.
Dewey M. Caron, Associate Professor of Entomology, both of the University of
Maryland, and Kenneth M. Nagler, former Chief of Space Operations, Support Division,
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

Also published this year was “The Schweitzer Medalists” a leaflet describing the
achievements of all those who have received the Albert Schweitzer Award of the AWI
from the time when a gold replica of the medal was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself in
1954 through the 1976 award to President Oduber. The distinguished persons who have
made the presentations are also named.

A new listing of Educational Materials available from the Institute was designed by
Robert Benson of Cachalot Design Group and published this year.

50,000 copies of “Let Us Live,” a full color leaflet showing the terror and pain endured

by animals caught in leghold traps were printed for AWI this year, the previous run having
been exhausted.

Planning has begun for a new edition of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
with the generous professional assistance of the well known Washington architectural firm
of Leo A. Daly Company. The manual, like the existing edition, will be provided free on
request to scientists, administrators and architects who need sound information on design
of quarters for animals used for research and testing.

“Letter from a Whale” by Anthony Sandonato is a new leaflet designed for upper
elementary and junior high school students. Written in an attractive script, it addresses the
reader from a whale’s viewpoint. The “Letter” fills a gap in AWI whale campaign
materials between information designed for adult readers and Tamar Griggs’ “How to
Liven Up Your Classroom With a Pod of Whales” for elementary schools.

Whale campaign materials distributed during the year include 100,000 fliers, 5,000
22-page compilations of articles on whales from the AWI Information Report, 10,000
posters, 20,000 pins, 20,000 bumper stickers and 1,000 copies of Vanishing Giants, the

24-page reprint of AWI board member David Hill’s article with illustrations by Richard
Ellis of all the great whales.

The Dow-Jones “List of Free Materials Available to Educators,” “The Rainbow Book,”
“699 Free Things for Teachers,” “Educator Index of Free Materials,” and “The Whole
Kids Catalog” listed AWI materials which continue to be distributed free on request to
school teachers and at cost to others. Manuals include First Aid and Care of Small
Animals, Humane Biology Projects and Animal Expressions. Reprints of articles include
“Attitudes Toward Animals” by Christine Stevens; “Better Nutrition” by Dr. F. Barbara
Orlans; “Towards the Ideal in an Animal Shelter” from the Gaines Dog ResearCh
Progress,- “Sanctified Torture” by John Hillaby; “Federal Measures Against the Abuse Of

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Wild Animals” by Hon. Nathaniel Reed; “Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals” by
William Hoffer; “Canada’s Experience with Student Use of Living Animals” and “The
Science Fair and the Experimental Animal” by Dr. H.C. Rowsell.

Publications provided free of charge to scientific institutions include Basic Care of
Experimental Animals (in both English and Spanish editions), Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory Animals and Animal Expressions. Films rented at cost are “Laboratory Dogs”
“Handling Laboratory Animals”, “Whales, Dolphins and Men” and “Last Days of the
Dolphin?”

 

COOPERATION WITH OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

 

AWI has joined in many joint efforts with other humane and environmental groups to
help animals throughout the world. This year the Institute became a member of the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature, the creator of the Red Data Book,
pioneer in the necessary scientific determination of endangered and threatened species.
AWI is a member of the World Federation for the Protection of Animals whose work is
directed primarily to the prevention of Cruelty. WFPA’s advice to the Council of Europe
has been instrumental in development of three animal protective treaties on 1) transpor—
tation of animals, 2) intensive systems of livestock husbandry, and 3) humane slaughter.
The treaties may be adhered to by all nations after the European members have ratified
them.

AWI is one of five major organizational members of Monitor, Inc., a coalition founded
four years ago to monitor enforcement of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972
and the Endangered Species Act of 1973. Every week numerous permit requests
published in the Federal Register to capture, transport, tag or otherwise interfere with the
many animals covered by these two major laws, are commented on by Monitor
organizations. Sharing the burden of writing these comments which must be based on
sound documentation and scientific information, AWI and the other member
organizations are able to accomplish a much broader scope of work than any existing
individual group could do.

Monitor groups have also joined together in successful lawsuits for the protection of
animals, some of which are mentioned earlier in this report.

In order to support the work, a highly successful benefit concert generously given by
the world’s greatest cellist, Mstislav Rostropovich, took place March 28, 1977 in the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. AWI took a very active part in the
organization of the event.

President and Mrs. Carter, whose love of classical music and of marine mammals is
well known, came to the concert, entering the Presidential Box so quietly that the
audience was not immediately aware of their presence.

Star music critic Irving Lowens wrote of the concert, “Mstislav Rostropovich
temporarily put down his baton and picked up his cello bow last night at the Kennedy
Center, demonstrating once again that he is the world’s outstanding performer on his
chosen instrument...The evening began with a wonderful performance of the early
Brahms Sonata in E minor. . .Rostropovich took the center of the stage alone and offered
the Bach Suite No. 3 in C major for unaccompanied cello in a magisterial reading, full of
the subtlest nuance.” After the intermission came an arrangement of Rachmaninoff’s
song, ‘Vocalise,’ in which Rostropovich’s cello sang more eloquently than nearly any
singer I have heard attempt it, and closed with a coruscatingly brilliant projection of Serge
Prokofiev’s Cello Sonata in C major. . .All in all, the RostropovichSanders-Monitor, Inc.
recital proved a high point in the history of the Kennedy Center, an unforgettable
aesthetic and emotional experience.”

AWI acted as the lead organization in the Whale Defenders Coalition, an ad hoc group

 




 

of organizations that joined together to focus world attention on the International Whaling
Commission meeting in Canberra, Australia and to follow up on the meeting. Its work is
described earlier in this report.

In addition to formal cooperation with different federations and coalitions, AWI offers
free educational materials to all animal protective organizations and assists and works with
many individual groups on special projects to help animals.

 

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

Such cooperation with other organizations is well exemplified by work for laboratory
animals during the past year. The AWI purchased and distributed copies of the important
new book Painful Experiments on Animals by Dallas Pratt, M.D., published by Argus
Archives, the New York animal protective organization that researches major areas of
animal suffering and documents it in substantial publications. A review was published in
the Information Report, and sustained efforts to encourage wider readership have been
made. The book documents more fully than any other publication the current situation in
the United States with respect to use and abuse of these animals. It deals in a professional
manner with such topics as compulsory toxicity testing (illustrating the degrees of
destruction of the eyes of fully conscious rabbits under Food and Drug Administration
directions) and with alternate methods of testing. The work of Fund For The
Replacement of Animals In Medical Experiments (FRAME), the British organization
founded to encourage use of non—animal methods, has been focussed on by the AWI,
and a comprehensive article by FRAME’s Scientific Administrator, Dr. Andrew Rowan
~ was published in the Information Report under the title of “Safety Testing 0f
Pharmaceutical and Other Environmental Chemicals.”

In the same field a contest with international awards totalling $16,000 from the Felix
Wankel and Ernst Hutzenlaub Research Awards for Animal Protection in West Germany
was publicized by AWI.

Regulatory veterinary medicine provides the most practical means of reaching animals
in laboratories on a broad scale. The US. Animal Health Association is the organ of this
veterinary specialty. The President of the AWI has been a member of its Animal Welfare
Committee since the Committee was founded in 1968. Requests from the USAHA t0 the
Secretary of Agriculture last year which related to laboratory animals included a request
that he publish final regulations on exercise for laboratory dogs; prohibit by regulation the
use of the same dog for a series of painful operations merely to save money; and
revise the animal research facility reporting forms to “clarify and more accurately reflect
the actual use of anesthetics, analgesics, and tranquilizers on animals involved in
research, testing, or experimentation.” Full and proper use of pain relieving drugs as
required by the Animal Welfare Act is obviously a vitally important means of relieving
animal suffering in laboratories. AWI’s efforts have resulted in some progress but muCh
remains to be done.

sail-=3 .




 

INFORMATION REPORTS

 

The quarterly Information Reports are mailed to over 30,000 individuals and groups
including AWI members, public libraries, all members of the Federation of American
Societies for Experimental Biology, Deans of Medical and Veterinary Medical Schools,
humane societies, and several thousand individual veterinarians, teachers, scientists,
administrators and librarians who have asked to receive them.

Articles on subjects other than those covered more fully in this report include a
comprehensive, illustrated article, “Animals in Factory Farms” by Ruth Harrison, the
acknowledged world expert whose pioneering book, Animal Machines, first brought to
public attention the appallingly restrictive conditions under which poultry, veal calves and
pigs are maintained in the name of commercial profit (Information Report Vol. 26, No.
2). The same issue carried a first hand report by Michael Webster on abusive wildlife trade
in Hong Kong entitled, “Eating China’s Wild Animals.” A third article in this issue, “Exotic
Bird Trade Again Introduces Newcastle Disease to US,” was based on a report of the
American Veterinary Medical Association of smuggling 326 parrots from Mexico valued
at $50,000. '

Two well researched studies in Britain on the international wild bird trade and the
terrible suffering and death of the birds involved were reviewed in Information Reports
Vol. 25, No. 3 and Vol. 26, No. 1. “Airborne Birds” by TR Inskipp and (SJ. Thomas
documents the fact that 89% of the cages of birds examined were overcrowded and only
5% complied with the regulations for ventilation holes. “All Heaven in a Rage” by Mr.
Inskipp concludes: “Many of the catchers and exporters regard the colorful birds as the
most valuable; indeed, we know that they do not always bother to send off the
dull-coloured females and immatures, which are therefore torn from the lime—sticks and
left to die. To what figure does this bring the percentage mortality? A conservative
estimate of the world trade is five million birds per year, but this figure may well be 10
million or 25 million and how many birds are caught to produce this? 100 million? Or
more?”

“Don’t Buy Ivory, Elephants Decimated in Illegal Ivory Traffic,” appeared in the same
issue] It featured reports by Brian Jackman in The London Sunday Times and John A.
Burton in The New Scientist on the poaching and poisoning of elephants for the illicit
trade in their tusks. “Poaching has also brought about the destruction of the elephants’-
close-knit matriarchal family groups...the parks were strewn with rotting elephant
carcasses. None had been killed for food. But in every case the tusks have been hacked
out,” wrote Mr. Jackman.

Information Report Vol. 25, No. 3 includes, “Horse Protection Act Strengthened by
Congress — FBI Investigation of Alleged Bribery of Horse Show Judges Studied by
Justice Department.” The Justice Department, however, dropped the case later. The
same issue reported on the ratification of the Polar Bear Treaty and the Convention for
the Conservation of Antarctic Seals and on passage of the bill to provide some protection
for the rare Tule Elk.

Reports on three wildlife meetings appeared in Vol. 25, No.4. 1) The first meeting of
the parties to the Convention on Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
in Bern, Switzerland, November 26, 1976, where all primates, cats and otters not already
listed on Appendix I (endangered) were placed on Appendix II (threatened) and thus
8leled to permit procedures in international trade. 2) The fourth international congress of
the World Wildlife Fund in San Francisco and 3) “California Celebrates the Whale,”
Governor Brown’s massive whale day. This issue also reported on “Japanese Whalers
Hauling in $3,600,000 on a ‘Scientific Permit,’ ” the issuance of a unilateral permit to kill
240 Brydes’ whales where the International Whaling Commission quota was zero, and
“South Africa Goes Out of the Whaling Business,” because it could no longer make a
profit. '

 




 

 

 

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES MADE
BY AW] REPRESENTATIVES

 

American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual Meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, July
19-22, 1976. AWI booth exhibit.

Department of the Interior meeting on Injurious Wildlife, Washington, DC, August 5,
1976. '

National Wildlife Federation meeting on pest control, Washington, DC, August 24,
1976.

Interagency meeting preparing for meeting of the parties to the Endangered Species
Convention in Bern, Switzerland, Department of the Interior, Washington, DC,
September 17, 1976.

Conference on Humane Trapping, Canadian Association for Humane Trapping,
Toronto, Ontario, September 24-26, 1976. Dr. John Beary spoke on trap injuries to
children, pets and non-target species.

Meeting of national groups supporting boycott of Japanese and Russian goods to save the
whales, Washington, DC, September 30, 1976.

Meeting on implementation of the Marine Mammal Protection Act, Department of
Commerce, October 5, 1976.

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, US. Department of Agriculture, College

Park, Maryland, meetings on Animal Transportation and Horse Protection regulations,
October 12-13, 1976.

Hearings on marine mammals in Alaska, US. District Court, Washington, DC, October
19, 1976.

Humane Society of the United States Convention, Washington, DC, October 22-23,
1976. AWI President held a workshop on “Animals in Biomedical Research” and took
part in a panel on “US. Department of Agriculture and Animal Welfare.”

Symposium on Laboratory Animal Housing, National Research Council — National
Academy of Sciences, Hunt Valley, Maryland, October 22, 23, 1976.

National Marine Education Conference, Pacific Grove, California, October 26-29, 1976.
AWI contributed literature.

Symposium on Wildlife in America, Council on Environmental Quality, Washington,
DC, October 29, 1976.

Conference of the parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), Bern, Switzerland, November 2—6, 1976.

US. Animal Health Association Convention, Miami Beach, Florida, November 10,
1976. Attended Animal Welfare Committee meeting.

California Celebrates the Whale, Sacramento, California, November 20, 1976. AWI
booth exhibit. Torn Garrett spoke on “A Time of Maximum Peril.”

 




 

International Congress of the World Wildlife Fund, San Francisco, California, November
29 - December 1, 1976.

Animal Resources Advisory Committee, Division of Research Resources, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, January 5, 1977.

Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council, Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, February 8,
1977. AWI President spoke on mistreatment of exotic pets and the Endangered Species
Convention.

AWI Annual meeting, Washington, DC, February 9, 1977. Presentation of Schweitzer
Medal to President Daniel Oduber by Senator Hubert Humphrey.

Environmental Study Conference, Washington, DC, February 23, 1977.

United Nations Environment Programme meeting of conservation groups with Mostafa
Tolba, Washington, DC, March 1, 1977.

National Wildlife Federation meeting of groups conducting boycott to save the whales,
Washington, DC, March 3, 1977. '

US. Department of Agriculture meeting on Control of Exotic Newcastle Disease,
Hyattsville, Maryland, March 4, 1977.

Mstislav Rostropovich concert benefit for Monitor, Inc., Washington, DC, March 28,

1977. AWI played a major role in organizing the benefit and presenting AWI materials at
the exhibit table.

Bioethics Seminar, George Washington University, April 2, 1977. Dr. John Beary
moderated the panel.

Meeting of environmental groups with Secretary of Commerce Juanita Kreps,
Washington, DC, April 5, 1977.

Women’s National Democratic Club luncheon, Washington, DC, April 18, 1977. AWI
President introduced Tom Garrett who spoke on “Man is the Only Animal Who Blushes
or Needs To.”

Cousteau Involvement Day, Boston, Massachusetts, May 14, 1977. AWI President took
‘part in forum on “The Plight of Marine Mammals,” spoke on “The Great Whales:
International Conservation Efforts.”

Luther Jackson Intermediate School, Merrifield, Virginia, May 20, 1977. Bianca Beary
spoke on “Cruelties of Trapping.”

Maryland Federation of Humane Societies, Annual Meeting, Brooklandville, Maryland,
May 21, 1977. AWI President spoke on marine mammals.

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA) meeting on regulations for Animal
Welfare Act Amendments, May 25-27, 1977.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Washington, DC, interagency
meetings on US. participation in the International Whaling Commission meeting, April 1
and May 25, 1977.

 




 

Bowhead Whale Meeting, National Marine Fisheries Service, Washington, DC, June 8,
1977.

State Department meeting on US. role in international environmental affairs, June 11,
1977.

Whale Survival Day, Lafayette Park, across from the White House, June 17, 1977. AWI,
as part of the Whale Defenders Coalition, helped organize the speeches and concert and
ran a booth exhibit.

International Whaling Commission Meeting, Canberra, Australia, June 20-24, 1977.
AWI President spoke on “Whale Survival Day” and delivered petitions with more than
three thousand signatures of persons who had attended the rally.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC, attended weekly meetings.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing income tax
returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for the general fund
or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s much-needed work depends
upon such support. Bequests to the Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its
work to protect animals. Please remember the Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest:

Igive to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of ........................ dollars
[or if other property, describe the property].

The Institute’s address is PO. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007.

 

THE COVER ART is a new drawing of the Blue Whale by noted marine artist Richard
Ellis. It has been incorporated as part of a recent redesign of the entire SAVE THE
WHALES! graphic campaign by Robert J. Benson and Cachalot Design Group of
Marblehead, MA.

 

 




y
g?

 

 

AW] STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES

Year ended June 30, 1977

 

Salaries
Payroll taxes

Newspaper ads against commercial whaling

Reprints, Publications, and subscriptions of
educational materials

Information Reports

Newsletter releases

Humane Biology Projects

Booklets and brochures on specific care of
animals

Defenders of Wildlife—Wolf campaign

Schweitzer Award for service

Contribution to Monitor Benefit

OrganizatiOnal Grants

Loss on promotion banners and media

Convention lectures

Consulting and research

Rentals of space and equipment
Postage, mailing and addressing costs
Stationery, printing and office expense
Professional services

Memberships, annual report and other

Total expenses before depreciation
Depreciation on fixtures and equipment

Total expenses

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Program Services Supporting Services
Public Save Whale Management Total
Education the Defenders and Fund all

and Projects Whales Coalition Total General Raising Expenses
$ 14,009 $ 6.252 1,540 $ 21,801 $ 8.744 $ 5,352 $ 35,897
1,100 482 90 1,672 694 432 2,798
1,998 1,998 g 525 2,523
378 42 2,338 2,758 3,323 566 6,647
12,087 2,532 14,619 2,650 1,200 18,469
4,778 4,778 1,206 5,984
5,959 5,959 5,959
3,887 765 4,652 4,652
2,739 2,739 2,739
1,939 1,939 990 950 3,879
2,400 2,400
12,000 12,000 12,000
1,702 1,702 1,702
3,244 483 3,727 3,727
472 472 89 561
2,079 2,079 2,079
3,784 2,750 6,534 3,187 4,766 14,487
3,979 4,548 1,550 10,077 5,123 4,757 19,957
1,000 1,000 2,690 3,690
205 205 1,247 1,452
58,355 21,759 20,597 100,711 31,137 19,754 151,602
102 208 310 411 721
$ 58,457 3 21,967 $ 20,597 $101,021 $ 31,548 $ 19,754 $152,323

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, MD.

 

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.l. Biol. (United Kingdom)
Angela King (United Kingdom)

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. (Greece)

David Ricardo (Canada)

N. E. Wernberg (Denmark)

 

Officers and Staff

Christine Stevens, President

Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President

Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Adele Schoepperle‘, Assistant Treasurer
Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary

Diane Halverson, Administrative Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Bianca Beary, Publications Coordinator

 

08

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Cover Art: Richard Ellis Printed in USA.
Design: Cachalot Design Group/Marblehead, Massachusetts on 100% recycled paper

 




 

TWENTY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

June 30, 1974 to July 1, 1975

 

 




 

 

 

SCHWEITZER CENTENARY

 

Albert Schweitzer’s birth one hundred years ago was marked by celebrations throughout
the world in 1975. For the Animal Welfare Institute it was twenty-three years since Dr.
Schweitzer gave his permission to name the AWI’s Schweitzer Medal in his honor. He
wrote: “I am profoundly moved that you would like to give my name to the medal you
have created. I give you this right With all my heart. I would never have believed that my
philosophy, which incorporates in our ethics a compassionate attitude toward all
creatures, would be noticed and recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would impose
itself one day on human thought, but it is the great and moving surprise of my life that I
should still be able to witness this progress of ethics. Your medal celebrates this progress:

philosophy obliged to intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so little interest
in them.”

On January fourteenth, Dr. Schweitzer’s birthday, the annual award ceremony was held
in the Great Hall of the Smithsonian Institution’s original building, “The Castle.” Russell
Train, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, presented the Schweitzer
Medal to Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council of Environmental Quality. As former
Chairman of CEQ, Train spoke from a comprehensive knowledge of the medalist’s
dedication to the preservation of whales, the prevention of mass poisoning programs
directed against predators, and other soundly based battles for wildlife against cruelty and
destruction. Responding, Talbot said in part, “I am convinced that we are closer than we

ever have been to achieving the Schweitzer ethic, and I am proud to be a part of this
noble effort.”

Attacking a number of “sacred cows,” Talbot began with maximum sustainable yield
(MSY), the nearly universal wildlife management rule of thumb. He said, “Ecologically
speaking, MSY cannot work because it does not consider the many factors affecting the
species itself nor the interrelationships between that species and its ecosystem.” Citing
efforts he has made to change the system he said, “The Marine Mammal Protection Act is
the world’s first legislation which states that the objective of management is to ensure that

the species survives in adequate numbers to play its role in maintaining the health and
stability of the ecosystem.”

On public lands he said, “A new philosophy for public lands is needed. . .these lands are
held in trust for all Americans. Their use by any individual is a privilege, not a right. . .I do
not regard our traditional academic system as the best route to [a holistic approach to
management of our lands]; I regard it as a powerful obstacle. The traditional university is
divided into water-tight departments. The system of academic awards is based on this
fragmented foundation. While many universities have established interdisciplinary or

 

 

 




 

~——-J

 

 

interdepartmental programs, frequently little has been changed but the name. The result
is the continuing production of narrow specialists, rather than well—trained broader
experts with an appreciation for the holistic nature of life and with the capabilities to deal
with it.”

On the citizen’s role in influencing government, the medalist told of a personal
confrontation: “One of my first contacts with the Federal Government was with a Federal
predator control officer who ran his trap and poison lines on private lands, including those
of my family and some neighbors, all of whom valued the existing natural conditions,
including the predators, and deeply resented this Governmental invasion of our rights.
There were no livestock within miles, and this was a gratuitous attempt by this man to
increase his take. Eventually I caught him and during a virorous discussion informed him
that the land owners had decided that if he or his lines were found on“ any of our
properties again we would ‘control’ him. He was never seen in the area again”.

 

 

ANTI-WHALING CAMPAIGN

 

The boycott campaign against products from Japan and Russia, who together account for
the harpooning of 80—85% of the whales killed each year, has grown in breadth and
intensity during the year. A total of nearly 100 half and full-page ads have been run in
newspapers throughout the country since the campaign began in February 1974.

253 demonstrations in 156 different places accompanied the newspaper activity. The
result has been the first serious consideration given by a whaling nation to
conservationists’ and humanitarians’ pleas to end the slaughter of the rapidly declining
populations of whales with the cruel explosive harpoon.

At the International Whaling Commission (IWC) meeting in London, June 23-28, the
first substantial quota reduction ever voted by that body took place. Some 8,500 less
whales may be killed next year by the nations which adhere to the IWC. Yet the quotas
allow 32,537 of these great creatures which are still swimming in the oceans of the world,
to be legally slaughtered within the year - and this despite the 53-0 vote at the Stockholm
Conference on the Human Environment and subsequent similar United Nations votes for
a ten—year international moratorium on the commercial killing of whales. Far from this
goal, nevertheless the U.S.S.R. announced at the opening of the IWC that it was
dropping one of its fleets from the coming antarctic whaling expedition. Although Japan
has dropped no fleets, its massive news media have taken up the subject which
heretofore has been glossed over as a result of Japan Whaling Commission pressure.
The Japan Broadcasting Corporation ran a 30-minute documentary in June on the
boycott activities of US. conservation and humane groups and the hearings in the US.
Congress on bills to embargo whaling company products.

Secretary of Commerce Rogers Morton received a delegation of representatives from the

Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Rare Animal Relief Effort, National
Wildlife Federation, Sierra Club, and Defenders of Wildlife, at a press conference at

 

 




 

 

which the Secretary expressed his active concern for the preservation of whales. It was
filmed by the Japan Broadcasting Corporation as were hearings held by Congressman
Robert Leggett on bills to invoke an embargo against commercial Whalers, a meeting of
Monitor, Inc., a demonstratiOn organized by the Sierra Club and Rare Animal Relief
Effort at which Japanese products made by Sony and Honda were dumped in the East
River in imitation of theBoston Tea Party, presentation of petitions bearing over 200,000
signatures to the Japanese Embassy, and an interview with the President of AWI.

Japan’s largest newspaper, The Asahi Shimbun, focussed on the boycott with feature
articles and photographs prior to the state visit of the Emperor of Japan to the United
States.

Thus, international impact has been achieved through the boycott campaign coordinated
by the AWI with the backing of the major conservation and humane organizations of the
United States: Friends of the Earth, the Fund for Animals, Environmental Action,
Defenders of Wildlife, Environmental Policy Center, The Wilderness Society, Rare
Animal Relief Effort, New York Zoological Society, Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, Center for Science in the Public Interest, Explorers Club Environment
Committee, National Parks and Conservation Association, Humane Society of the
United States, Environmental Defense Fund, Sierra Club, National Wildlife Federation,
National Audubon Society, Izaak Walton League, and the Oceanic Society.

The coming year will require a continuing intensive increase in the pressure to achieve an
international moratorium on commercial whaling, so that the whales may continue to
play the integral role in the ecosystem which they have taken for millions of years.

 

PERSECUTION OF DOLPHINS

 

Though outlawed by the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, the “incidental”
entrapment of dolphins in tuna purse seines continues at a hideous pace. The AWI joined
with the Environmental Defense Fund and nine other conservation and humane groups
in suing the US. Government to force the National Marine Fisheries Service to
promulgate effective regulations to stop the cruel killing which causes such ghastly pain
and fear among these friendly and highly developed mammals.

At the Public Hearing, December 10, 1974, on amendments to the regulations under the
Marine Mammal Protection Act, “Encircling Gear, Yellowfin Tuna Purse Seining,” the
President of the AWI stated, “The plain fact is that setting on porpoise as currently
practiced is inherently cruel. Research and development should be addressed not merely
to reducing the numbers of dead animals actually caught in the net, but to ending the
harassment of the dolphins altogether.”

The AWI contributed to the cost of production of a film by the Environmental Defense
Fund showing the decimation of the dolphins in the purse seines. The film will be
available for both television and private showing.

Major action is expected in the coming year on this intolerable cruelty in which panicking
dolphins run into the net, tearing flippers so the blood flows and sharks attack them.
Many drown; others go through the power block in which the net is gathered and are
crushed; abortions are commonly noted, infants and mothers struggle to stay together
and often die together when they cannot help each other. All this mayhem is for the
benefit of canning companies and other vested interests enabling them to make more
money.

 

 

 




 

 

AW ﬂ...

 

 

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

It was the unrelieved plight of laboratory animals that brought about the founding of the
Animal Welfare Institute in 1951. Since that time, every member of the American
Federation of Societies for Experimental Biology has received the quarterly AWI
Information Reports as have other animal experimenters. Millions of pieces of well
documented AWI educational materials have been dispatched to those most directly
involved with these animals. In the early years, the AWI’s efforts were vigorously
rebuffed. A quarter of a century later, however, the results of persistence are beginning to
become apparent as the scientific community moves away from flat opposition to AWI
humane principles to a decision to put the AWI position before the members of scientific
organizations using laboratory animals.

Invitations to AWI for speakers at meetings, symposia and workshops on laboratory
animals during this year came from the National Academy of Sciences, The American
Association for Laboratory Animal Science, The International Committee on Laboratory
Animals and the American Veterinary Medical Association. All invitations were accepted,
and the rights of experimental animals were stated clearly and firmly. Excerpts from two
of the speeches are given below.

“Too many laboratories resemble prisons with their combination of over-crowding of
some and isolation of other inmates, their bad food, inferior sanitation and unsympathetic
and sometimes brutal caretakers...We know from countless experiments on isolation
stress that solitary confinement for the large majority of warm—blooded animals is
unbiological. We know that the wild ancestors of canis familiaris, the dog, were social
pack animals adapted to. running long distances to capture prey, yet, with a degree of
stubborn defiance of the obvious which will surely be looked back upon with amazement
and disgust, a segment of the scientific community has fought almosta decade against a-
regulation to require institutions that maintain their experimental dogs in cages to let them
out once a day!”

(from a paper given at the National Academyof Sciences, March 12, 1975)

“Alternative methods of research represent an important new wave. It is a wave which
complements the demand for serious consideration Of laboratory animals as individuals.
Just as the days of unlimited funding for research using animals are gone, so are the days
when automatic ordering of large numbers of animals is acceptable. Dr. Schweitzer told
his fellow M.D.’s that they should consider in every single instance whether the sacrifice of
an animal was really necessary. His words then were largely unheeded because he was
ahead of his time. But now his words have a different ring...” (from a paper given at the
American Association for Laboratory Animal Science Symposium on Carnivores,
June 5, 1975)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

PUBLICATIONS

 

This year a new leaflet in full color showing the agony undergone by animals caught in the
leghold trap was printed in cooperation with a number of other humane organizations in
the United States and abroad. The color separations were very kindly provided by the
European Committee for the Protection of Seals and Other Furbearing Animals which
assisted with translation (the leaflet was previously available only in French, German and
Dutch) and adaptation was shared by the AWI, The Society for Animal ProtectiVe
Legislation, the Animal Welfare Foundation of Canada, the Fund for Animals who
together with Defenders of Wildlife, Humane Information Services, and International
Sportsmen’s Committee shared a press run of 500,000 copies bringing the cost per copy
within range of the organizations’ tight budgets. Leaflets in full natural color have never
before been used in North America to demonstrate the intolerable cruelty of the leghold
trap.

A new listing of educational materials available from the AWI was issued memorializing
the Albert Schweitzer Centenary.

With a new foreword by Dr. Francis Mulhern, Administrator of the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service of the US. Department of Agriculture, Animal Expressions,
the AWI’s photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s The Expression of the Emotions in
Man and Animals was republished this year. In his foreword, Dr. Mulhern wrote,
“. . .when I took another look at some of the expressions of animals in this book, it were as
if I heard them also plead for realization of their legal rights today. I looked at images of
fear, anger, and hate and felt them as accusations that we humans are responsible for
many of the conditions that bring about animal expressions such as these. We should

place ourselves, at least mentally, in the environment that these animals find
themselves...”

Preparation of the third edition of Animals and Their Legal Rights, the AWI paperbaCk
which has become the standard work on laws affecting animals in the United States, is
underway with publication expected within the year. The five-year period since the
second edition appeared in 1970 has been an active one in the field of animal protective
legislation at both state and federal levels. A major revision has therefore been necessary
to bring this reference book, the only single source for the material it contains, up to date.

Revisions are also underway in preparation of the sixth edition of Basic Care Of
Experimental Animals and the second edition of Humane Biology Projects.

Publications distributed during the course of the year are listed below:

0 1,079 copies of Facts About Furs, 106 pages of information on the way furs are
obtained throughout the world, by F. Jean Vinter, MD.

0 1,930 copies of Animal Expressions, with 106 photographs illustrating the concepts
of Charles Darwin’s “Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals.”

0 181 copies of Animals and Their Legal Rights, 216-page paperback by Emily Stewart
Leavitt and other authors.




Manuals distributed to scientific institutions at their request:

0 400 copies of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, 78-page manual for animal
caretakers, Spanish edition — 99 copies.

0 277 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, 103-page collection of
floor plans, construction details and equipment.

0 21 copies of The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique, by Russell and
Burch.

Manuals distributed to teachers at their request:
0 2,666 copies of First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 46-page illustrated manual.

0 1,510 copies of Humane Biology Projects, 41-page illustrated manual.

Reprints and statements distributed to high school teachers:

0 342 copies of “Attitudes Toward Animals,” by Christine Stevens, reprinted from The
American Biology Teacher, February, 1970.

' 425 copies of “Better Nutrition Studies,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted from
The American Biology Teacher, November, 1970.

' 104 copies of “Painless Animal Experimentation,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.,
reprinted from Scholastic Teacher, April, 1970.

0 1,399 copies of “Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School Biology
Students and Reasons why Animal Experiments by High School Students Should be
Painless.

' 97 copies of “High School Science Coordinator Devises System to Prevent Cruel or
Hazardous Science Fair Projects,” by William Dunkum, Coordinator for Mathematics and
Science, Alexandria City Public Schools, Alexandria, Virginia.

Leaflets distributed for the elementary grades included:

425 copies of “Kittens and Cats”.

744 copies of “You and Your Dog”.

972 copies of “Good Kind Lion”.

584 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Education
Approximately 10,000 miscellaneous leaflets were distributed.

Save the Whales Campaign Materials:

284,000 Save the Whales flyers
74,000 Reprints of articles
70,000 Bumper stickers

41,000 Petitions

80,500 Buttons

20,000 Posters

3,696 T—shirts

 

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL SUPPORT, REVENUE AND EXPENSES

AND CHANGE IN FUND BALANCES

 

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1975

 

PUBLIC SUPPORT AND REVENUE:

Public Support for Programs and Projects:
Contributions from members and individuals
Public contributions through newspaper appeal
Bequests and foundations
Sales of special promotion materials
Friends of the Earth

Total public support
Revenue:
Membership dues
Interest, dividends and security
Sales of publications, reprints and educational materials

Total public support and revenue

EXPENSES:
Programs and Projects:
Newspaper appeals
Reprints, publications, films and letters
Postage, mailing and plate costs
Salaries and payroll taxes— Note 8
Promotion materials, banners and posters
Quarterly information reports
Animal Expressions
AWI exhibits at conventions
Grants:
Endangered Species Publications for whale manual
Other
Memberships and Contributions:
Monitor Incorporated
Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources —
sponsorship of symposium
Stationery, subscriptions and other expense
Total programs and projects
Schweitzer Medal Award/Annual meeting
Supporting Services
Salaries and payroll taxes
Postage, stationery and machine rentals
Legal and accounting services
Utilities and miscellaneous expense
Travel expense
Depreciation of furniture and fixtures

Total supporting services
Total expenses

Net of Expenses over Public Support and Revenue Fund
balances at beginning of year

Fund balances at end of year— for general and
special protective activities— Notes B and C

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Programs Save the
and Whales
Projects Campaign Combined
$22,308.45 $ 48,722.42 $ 71,030.87
52,714.87 52,714.87
16,135.80 16,135.80
13,022.61 13,022.61
635.80 635.80
38,444.25 115,095.70 153,539.95
10,979.45 10,979.45
2,787.73 2,787.73
358.16 w_‘375_81;6
52,569.59 115,095.70 ”161,665.29
68,822.44 68,822.44
983.80 16,438.33 17,422.13
3,268.41 13,743.63 17,012.04
3,750.31 1,354.66 5,104.97
27,014.24 27,014.24
16,319.92 16,319.92
3,238.16 3,238.16
1,844.56 1,844.56
2,500.00 2,500.00
600.00 600.00
1,500.00 1,500.00 3,000.00
2,000.00 2,000.00
5,197.14 7,265.03 w
38,102.30 139,238.33 177,340.63
w2,700.40 w
14,531.76 12,191.95 26,723.71
5,705.61 5,705.61
1,000.00 1,866.54 2,866.54
2,093.35 208.71 2,302.06
1,350. 39 1,350.39
432.80 103.70 w
25,113.91 14,370.90 __39,484.81
65,916.61 153,609.23 W
(13,347.02) ( 38,513.53) ( 51,860.55)
36,967.17 55,142.51 92,109.68
$23,620.15 $ 16,628.98 $ 40,249.13

to»

 




 

 

 

 

.0 if“ . 3.15.1
«waln‘v‘ ark/3:;

"‘i'et‘iﬁ" as”

 

INFORMATION REPORTS

 

Articles on subjects other than those already covered in this report include “South
African Seals Whimper and Squeal in Agony - Dent Denies Import Permit for Skins”
describing the horrors of the South African seal kill and the invoking of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act prohibiting entry of the seal skins into the United States (Vol. 23,
No. 3). In the same issue a detailed account of the World Congress for Animal Protection
held in Strasbourg, France, appeared telling of the European Convention for the
Protection of Animals During International Transport which is now open to accession by
non—member non—European States, of the work to end the worst abuses of factory
farming, of the film showing the cruel netting of song birds for commercial purposes, of
laws regulating animal experimentation, and efforts to protect wild animals. Also included
in this Information Report were announcements of meetings scheduled in Greece of the
World Veterinary Congress and the International Committee on Laboratory Animals, the
promulgation of proposed regulations under the Federal Animal Welfare Act to require
release from cages of laboratory dogs, a report on an AWI Scientific Committee meeting,
and a statement made by Senator Warren Magnuson under the heading, “Magnuson,
Foley Urge Animal Transport Reforms, Abolition of Sadistic Animals Fights.” He said,
“The need for national legislation to protect animals in transit has been proven during
hearings conducted by several congressional subcommittees...For instance, a recent
shipment of laboratory mice bound for NIH, having survived the plane ride, was
subsequently roasted to death when the crates in which they were shipped were left out
on the airport runway under the blazing sun for several hours. . . .The ‘Animal Welfare Act
Amendments of 1974’ which I introduce today, will rectify this situation.”

In Vol. 23, No. 4, a long article, “Destruction of the Dolphins,” based on a 161 page draft
report from the Southwest Fisheries Center of the Commerce Department’s National
Marine Fisheries Service, tells how dolphins suffer in the chases to which they are
subjected by tuna fishermen and how they die in the giant purse seines in which they
become entangled. The same issue quotes the British Veterinary Record on new
prohibitions against routine mutilation of farm animals: tail docking of cattle, surgical
castration of poultry, dewinging of poultry and fitting blinkers to birds by mutilating the
nasal septum. Passage of strengthening amendments to the Horse Protection Act was
reported in the same issue.

“US. Government Challenged in Court on DolPhin Decimation” was the title Of the lead
article in Information Report Vol. 24, No. 1. Another major article, “Blad‘bird
Massacre,” protested the aerial spraying 0f Tergitol in an effort by the U,S.Army to ”in
millions of the birds by exposure to cold after the protective oils in their feathers have been
destroyed by the powerful detergent. '

“Scientist Explains Why Whalers Can Make More Money by Killing Whales to Extinction”
described Dr. Colin W. Clark’s mathematical analysis of the ‘discount’ rate” which makes

 

 

 

 




 

it unprofitable for commercial whalers to spare the goose that lays the golden eggs (Vol.
24, No. 2). In the same issue announcement of a symposium which the AWI took part in
planning appeared under the heading, “National Academy of Sciences Tackles Thorny
Issue - A Review of Research Methods Involving Animals, Tissue Cultures, Computer
Simulation, and Other Alternatives.” New directives by the Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service concerning requirements for reporting on the use of pain-relieving
drugs by research facilities under the Animal Welfare Act were quoted extensively in this
information Report as were regulations proposed by the US. Public Health Service to
ban importation of primates for the pet trade. Among the Elephants by Iain and Oria
Douglas—Hamilton was reviewed.

A report on Russian fishermen coming to the assistance of a baby dolphin at the insistance
of a school of dolphins appeared in this issue together with a report of dolphins
accompanying an exhausted long-distance swimmer through shark-infested waters. An
Austrian invention to prevent wildlife from crossing highways at night by erecting glass
reflectors that simulate threatening eyes when headlights illuminate them was described.
A shocking report on activities of “Great Adventure, Inc.” the $35 million New Jersey
safari park where six endangered Bengal tigers died concluded this Information Report.

 

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND EXHIBITS
PRESENTED BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

 

American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual Convention, Denver, Colorado, July
23-25, 1974. AWI exhibit on “Suffering and Death Inflicted on Animals in Air
Transport.”

World Federation for the Protection of Animals, Quadrennial Congress, Strasbourg,
France, September 10-14, 1974. AWI President spoke on “Animals in Laboratories
Throughout the World.”

National Association of Biology Teachers, Annual Convention, New York City, October
12-14, 1974. AWI exhibit on endangered species.

United States Animal Health Association, Annual Convention, Roanoke, Virginia,
October 16, 1974. Attended the Animal Welfare Committee meeting.

Threatened and Endangered Species of North America Symposium, Sponsored by the

Wild Canid Survival and Research Center Wolf Sanctuary, St. Louis, Missouri, October
16, 1974.

National Science Teachers Association, Annual Convention, Washington, DC,
November 21-23, 1974. AWI exhibit on alternatives to laboratory animals. A workshop
by Dr. Barbara Orlans (AWI Scientific Advisory Committee member) on “Biology
Students as Experimental Subjects.”

AWI Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, January 14, 1975. Presentation of the 1974
Schweitzer Medal.

American Association for the Advancement of Science, Annual Convention, New York
City, January 26-31, 1975.

Hoosier State Science Teachers, Annual Convention, Indianapolis, Indiana, February
14—15, 1975. Janet Keyes (Whale Campaign Secretary) spoke on “Programs of the
Animal Welfare Institute,” had an exhibit and held a workshop on “Biology Students as
Experimental Subjects.”

 

Co
ret
or

up




Planning Committee for National Academy of Sciences Symposium on The Future of
Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research, Development, Education, and
Testing, Washington, DC. December 3, 1974 and February 19, 1975.

Council on Environmental Qu‘ality,Washington, D.C. February 26, 1975. Briefing by
Chairman Russell Peterson.

United States Department of Interior, Washington, DC, February 28, 1975. Fish and
Wildlife Service briefing.

Committee on Humane Methods of Whale Killing, U.S. Delegation to the International
Whaling Commission, Washington, DC, March 11, 1975.

National Academy of Sciences Symposium on “Animal Models of Thrombosis and
Hemorrhagic Diseases, Washington, DC, March 12-13, 1975. AWl President spoke on
“Humane Considerations for Animal Models.”

National Marine Fisheries Service, Marine Mammal Protection Act and Endangered
Species Act reporting, Washington, DC, March 11, May 2, May 5, 1975.

Non Governmental Organizations, Washington, DC, March 20, April 16, April 23,
1975, meetings held before and during the United Nations Environmental Program
Conference at Nairobi.

Meeting of AWI Scientific Advisory Committee, Washington, DC, April 15, 1974.

Ontario Humane Society, Annual General Meeting, Ontario, Canada, May 29, 1975.
AWI President spoke on “The Protection of the Whales of the World.”

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, Metropolitan New York and
Delaware Valley Branch, Symposium on Carnivores, East Brunswick, New Jersey, June
5-6, 1975. AWI President spoke on “Care and Treatment of Laboratory Dogs and Cats.”

International Whaling Commission, Annual Meeting, London, England, June 23-28,
1975. Remarks by AWI President, representing Friends of the Earth of the United States.

Attorney General of New York State, meetings on animal welfare, New York, February
11, March 4, April 8, May 6, June 10, 1975.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC. Attended weekly meetings.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing income tax
returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for the general fund
or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s much-needed work depends
upon such support.

 

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

 

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. (United Kingdom)
T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. (Greece)

David Ricardo (Canada)

N. E. Wernberg (Denmark)

 

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice—President
Marjorie Cooke, Sacretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary
Kristina Harper, Administrative Assistant
Janet Keyes, Whale Campaign Secretary

Design 81. Cover Art:
Cachalot Design Group/Marblehead, Massachusetts Printed in USA.

 




TWENTY SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

///; A

// ///////////"')/I/////

\
v

Gomé...:doing....

This picture, courtesy of Friends of the Earth, Ltd., shows
the cruel war on whales still carried out by Japan and the
U.S.S.R. with helicopters, airplanes, ships, radar, ASDIC, and
bombs that detonate inside the whale.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

 




 

TWENTY SECOND ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
June 31, 1972 to July I, I973

U. S. Delegation at London Gains Majority on Whaling Moratorium

The United States won a majority vote on its proposal for a ten-year inter-
national moratorium on commercial killing of whales at the annual June meeting of
the International Whaling Commission (I.W.C.) in London. The vote was 8-5 with
one abstention.

Time magazine in a vigorous article reporting on the need for “a reprieve for
whales” quoted U. S. Commissioner to the I.W.C., Dr. Robert White, as saying,
“Whales come under no nation’s exclusive national jurisdiction and as such are an
international trust in which all nations should have a voice”. It quoted Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality, as saying that
after the vote for the moratorium, “Suddenly, the I.W.C. ceased being a happy club
for Whalers”.

Nevertheless, the Whalers continued, in large measure to prevail, for a 1%: ma-
jority is required to carry a proposal in the I.W.C. A moral victory was gained, but
the numbers of whales to be killed in the coming season was only moderately re-
duced.*

Any nation can object within 90 days of the I.W.C. meeting and thus reject
the controls voted. It is this system which has led to the disastrous decimation of
the world’s whales under the supposed protection of the Commission.

A boycott of Japanese goods appeared to conservationists attending the meet-
ing as observers as the only practical way to bring the necessary pressure on an
intransigeant industry. The Animal Welfare Institute began preparatory work on the
boycott shortly after return of its representative from London. Information on
how to help save the whales is available on request to all members and friends of
the Institute.

Publications

Facts About Furs is the major AWI publication of the past year. Written by
Dr. F. Jean Vinter, a foremost authority on the subject, who wrote the fore-runner
of this edition in 1958 for the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, it con-
sists of fourteen chapters, an appendix and index and is illustrated with 28 photo-
graphs and drawings. Single free copies are being offered on request from libraries
and humane societies. To others it is available at cost price, $1.00,

There is little of an encouraging nature to be found in this highly condensed
summary. The leghold trap, aptly compared with crucifixion as a method of pain
infliction, continues to be used on thousands of animals in countries throughout
the world. Cruel poisons follow as a close second in killing furbearing animals. The
primitive desire to parade in furs shows little sign of slackening despite the availabil-
ity of well promoted and much less expensive “fake furs”. Promotion of real fur
appears to have been stepped up substantially in the past year in response to crit-
icism .of the cruelty of the leghold trap and reports of long—standing and repeated
violations of federal law by a substantial segment of the New York fur industry
involved in international smuggling of the skins of endangered species.

*On September 14th Japan took objections which means the total numbers will be higher than
last year, rather than lower. Subsequently, the USSR followed the anti-conservation lead of
Japan on two of three major issues.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Reprints of two magazine articles were made available and circulated by the
AWI during the year, “Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals” from the May
issue of College Management and “Help for Whales” from the July 16th issue of
Time. Time told very clearly the tragic situation of the whales under the present
system of “conservation”.

College Management gave sound advice on providing comfortable, roomy
housing for laboratory dogs, monkeys, and other of the larger species of exper-
imental animals, too often caged instead of being kept in space of reasonable size.
With examples from two leading medical schools, Johns Hopkins and the Medical
College of Virginia, it is hoped that others will follow their lead in getting dogs
removed from cages to kennel-runways where they can live a more nearly normal
life.

Distribution of AWI publications during the year is summarized below.

0 1772 copies of “Facts About Furs,” 106 pages of information on the way furs are
obtained throughout the world, by F. Jean Vinter, MD.

0 698 copies of “Animal Expressions,” with 106 photographs illustrating the
concepts of Charles Darwin’s “Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals.”

¢ 659 copies of “Animals and Their Legal Rights,” 216—page paperback by Emily
Stewart Leavitt and other authors.

Manuals distributed to scientific institutions at their request:

0 1308 copies of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, 78—page manual for animal
caretakers. Spanish edition — 43 copies.

0 542 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, 103—page collection
of floor plans, construction details and equipment.

0 21 copies of Humane Experimental Technique, by Russell and Burch.

Manuals distributed to teachers at their request:
0 3837 copies of First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 46-page illustrated manual.
I 2334 copies of Humane Biology Projects, 41-page illustrated manual.

Reprints and statements distributed to high school teachers:

0 2464 copies of “Boundaries of Use of Animals in High School Biology,” by F.
Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted from The Science Teacher, February, 1968.

O 2030 c0pies of “Attitudes Toward Animals,” by Christine Stevens, reprinted
from T he American Biology Teacher, February, 1970.

0 139 copies of “Better Nutrition Studies,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted
from The American Biology Teacher, November, 1970.

0 1458 copies of “Painless Animal Experimentation,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.,
reprinted from Scholastic Teacher, April, 1970.

C 2567 copies of “Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School Biology
Students and Reasons why Animal Experiments by High School Students Should
be Painless”.

0 1496 copies of “Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,” by W.W.
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University.

0 1556 copies of “High School Science Coordinator Devises System to Prevent
Cruel or Hazardous Science Fair Projects,” by William Dunkum, Coordinator for .
Mathematics and Science, Alexandria City Public Schools, Alexandria, Virginia.

 




 

Leaflets distributed for the elementary grades included:

0 1489 copies of “Kittens and Cats”.
0 692 copies of “You and Your Dog”.
0 1258 copies of “Good Kind Lion”.

O 2681 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Education.
Approximately 10,000 miscellaneous leaflets were distributed.

Endangered Species Treaty

The single most important event for the advancement of animal welfare this
year was the plenipotentiary conference held in Washington, DC. February 12 to
March 3 which resulted in the signing of a treaty for protection of endangered
species of animals and plants through trade restrictions designed to put smugglers
and poachers out of business and to stop exploitation of creatures threatened with
extinction.

Ninety-two nations took part in drafting a convention which provides a per-
mit system documenting trade in any individual animal, part or product of an
animal listed as endangered. Trade includes import, export, re-export, and intro-
duction from the sea. There are three separate lists of threatened wildlife. Appendix
1 species are those in immediate danger of extinction, commercial trade in which
must be wholly stopped. Appendix 11 species are those which require careful moni-
toring and restriction in trade to prevent them from reaching the intolerable situa-
tion of those on Appendix 1; Appendix 111 species are those which an individual
nation finds to be endangered within its own national boundaries and wishes to list
so as to have the benefit of international cooperation in enforcing its own pro-
tective laws. Appendix 111 makes possible for the whole world the valuable provi-
sions of the U.S. Lacey Act which prohibits importation of any animal or product
contrary to the laws of the country from which it was taken. The U.S. experience
over a period of 60 years with this law, plus a spectacular example of its enforc-
ment which resulted in charges against 33 New York furriers with potential fines up
to $500,000, reported by the press in the second week of the plenipotentiary con-
ference, brought home the importance of Appendix II provisions.

The contracting states undertake to enforce the required control. A secre-
tariat to organize biennial meetings, undertake studies and help implement the con—
vention is established.

- . Most important from the humane standpoint is the requirement that “any
hvmg specimen be so prepared and shipped as to minimize the risk of injury,
damage to health, or cruel treatment”. A substantially similar requirement is repeat-
edseven times throughout the body of the treaty wherever handling or shipping of
animals is treated on. Further, a requirement is made that “the proposed recipient
of a living specimen be suitably equipped to house and care for it”.

The treaty was ratified by the U.S. Senate in August of this year. When ten
states have ratified it, it will go into effect.

Cruel Experiments by High School Students

A major study by Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, a member of The Scientific Advisory
Committee of the AWI, was presented in a series of two articles in Information
Reports Vol. 21, No. 3 and 4. In the first article, the projects using live animals in
eight science fairs were documented. The resulting analysis allowed that 66% in-
ﬂicted pain or lingering death on the subjects. Ghastly mistreatment of animals was




detailed, and the complete ineffectiveness of controlling cruelty by guidelines call-
ing for supervision was demonstrated over and over again. The projects described
included amateur surgery, deprivation experiments of every sort, forced breathing
of smoke or of insecticides, forced drinking of salt water or water containing up to
40% alcohol, centrifuge experiments, painful electric shocks, intense noise, stress of
many kinds including preventing animals from sleeping or eating, allowing them to
freeze to death, exposing them to lethal radiation, induction of convulsions cancer
rickets, blindness, and, of course, ultimately, death. ’ ,

In the second article, Dr. Orlans made constructive suggestions for bringing an
end to these cruel and anti-educational activities, the majority of which were con-
ducted in students’ homes. Sound rules for adoption by science fairs, specifically
prohibiting painful projects were published. The articles were widely disseminated
and made a deep impression on readers.

. There are clear indications that this misguided phase of science teaching has
run its course. In California, where local humane organizations had worked for sev-
eral years to pass a bill to stop experiments by untrained youths which caused suf-
ferlng to animal subjects, a well-drafted bill introduced by Senator Albert S. Rodda
was enacted into law. In Maine, an attempt to repeal existing legislation prohibiting
cruel experlments in high schools failed, as previous attempts had done in Illinois.

Schweitzer Medal

Russell Train, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality* accepted
the 1972 Albert Schweitzer Medal from Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution at a ceremony held November 2lst in the Smithsonian’s Hall of
Life in the Sea.

Chairman Train’s role in fighting for the survival of whales was emphasized
among his many great contributions to the protection of wild animals, and Secre-
tary Ripley expressed his pleasure in presenting the medal“. . ,under the whale
where we can hear the music of the spheres,” referring to the life-size model of the
great blue whale suspended over the heads of assembled AWI members and friends,
and to the “Songs of the Humpback Whale” which were broadcast over the public
address system. Mr. Ripley continued,“. . .to think about the earth as it really is,
rather than the earth as constructs in economics and the social sciences would have
us believe that it is, is something of enormous importance. Russell Train has per—
formed a great service in his manifold works for the environmental-conservation
field, and I, for one, through my friendship with him and knowledge of him am
convincedthat this is merely the beginning, and that he will go on from strength to
strength”.

In responding, Chairman Train spoke of the importance of the efforts of indi-
vidual citizens in carrying forward the work for the protection of animals and the
environment, “I think it is quite clearly the case that without citizen concern and
citizen action really nothing would happen in this area. Governments move and
politicians move, bureaucrats move, because the people want them to and ‘put the
heat on’. . .I’m delighted to see so many friends from other governments, members
of the diplomatic corps here, because I know they are sensitive to this same phe-
nomenon occurring in their own countries. . . .” He spoke of “the action of our
government in stopping the use of poisons, on the public lands against predators, a
very difficult decision, taken by the President by Executive action: very contro-
versial as those of you who may come from Wyoming or Colorado or other sheep
Country in the West know that this was a ‘tough bullet to bite’ ”. Concluding, he
said, “we, increasingly, I think, care for other forms of life because they are won-
derful and exciting beings, but we also have come to understand that the health of
the whales, the health of other marine mammals, of the other terrestial mammals,

*Now Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 




 

and birds, is part — an essential part — of the health of the total environment of
which we, too, are a part”.

Information Reports

The Quarterly Information Reports of the AWI were distributed to app-
roximately 25,000 individuals and groups during the year. In addition to matters
already mentioned in this annual report, articles on the following subjects ap-
peared: In Volume 21, No. 3: an article by Tom Garrett, Wildlife Conservation
Director of Friends of the Earth about the 1972 meeting of the International Whal-
ing Commission; and a report on the recommendation by the Merchant Marine and
Fisheries Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives that a substitute for the
painful leghold trap be developed. In Volume 21, No. 4, law enforcement by the
Animal Care Staff of the United States Department of Agriculture included a
charge of soring against Don Bell whose horse was in such pain that it dropped to
its knees.* Increase in numbers of licensed or registered premises which must be
inspected were tallied showing 100% to 200% growth in responsibilities combined
with a decrease of 17% in available personnel. A report on enactment of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act and of actions to protect dolphins and seals taken by Sec-
retary of Commerce Peter Peterson, prior to his resignation, appeared in this Re-
port. Also included was an article on the indictment of the animal importer, Fred J.
Zeehandelaar, on charges of submitting false statements in an attempt to import 20
live Cheetahs for Wild Kingdom, a Florida commercial attraction; an article onthe
starving of 2,000 finches by Pan American Airways; an article on the passage of
Resolutions by the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives for International pro-
tection of polar bears; an announcement of a ban on tunafish by the Greenwich,
Connecticut Board of Education till porpoises are no longer killed in tuna purse
seines; and an announcement of personnel changes: the resignation of Dorothy
Dyce, and appointment of Marilyn Chamberlain as Publications Secretary and
Barbara Gould as Administrative Assistant.

Information Report, Vol. 2, No. 3 contained an Associated Press news story
on Dr. David Secord’s testimony to the U.S. Department of Agriculture stating,

“Confining a dog in a cage without exercise is contrary to everything that is human-
itarian and to the training of a veterinarian”. Other news stories included, “The
Plants and Animals of Detente,” by Scott McVay and a report on the conviction of
a smuggler of whale teeth. The ban on export of Kangaroo hides and meat from
Australia was announced, and the resolution adopted by the International Primatol-
ogical Society urging scientists to become active in the protection of monkeys was
reported.

Testimony by a rancher, Dayton 0. Hyde, at Senate hearings on poisoning of
predators was featured in Information Report, Vol 22, No. 2, as was an article by
Jim Weaver entitled, “Excessive Importation of Exotic Turtles, 20,150 Hatchlings
Incinerated”. A report on the continued drowning of hundreds of thousands of dol-
phins in tuna purse seines made discouraging reading as did the cruelties of the leg
hold trap, detailed in an article on legislation to cut trapping cruelty. An obituary
of Alfred R. Glancy, Vice-President of the AWI since its founding, appeared in this
issue.

*On September 7, 1973 Don Bell was fined $1,000 for showing and soring his horse, Bo-Mar’s
Ebony Belle.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual Convention, New Orleans,
Louisiana, July 18-20, 1972. AWI booth exhibit.

United States Animal Health Association, Animal Welfare Committee, Miami,
Florida, November 8, 1972.

Meeting on Air Transport of Animals, Civil Aeronautics Board, Washington, D.C.,
January 11, 1973.

United States Department of State, Endangered Species Seminar, Washington, D.C.,
January 15, 1973.

Meeting of Environmental and Humane Groups to Discuss Lacey Act Regulations
Limiting Importation of Exotic Animals, Assistant Secretary of the Interior for
Fish and Wildlife, Washington, D.C., January 18, 1973.

Plenipotentiary Conference on Endangered Species, Washington, D.C., Feb-
ruary 12 — March 3, 1973 .

National Science Teachers Association, Annual Convention, Detroit, Michigan,
March 30 - April 2, 1973. AWI booth exhibit co—sponsored by Humane Society of
the United States.

United States Department of State, Endangered Species Conference Briefing,
Washington, D.C., March 16, 1973.

United States Department of Commerce, Inter-Agency Planning for 1973
International Whaling Commission Meeting, Washington, D.C., April 9, 197 3.

International Society for the Protection of Animals, Biennial Meeting, London,
England; May 2-3, 1973; Marjorie Cooke spoke in support of a ten-year inter-
national moratorium on cOmmercial killing of whales and successfully recom-
mended adoption of a resolution to that effect by ISPA.

National Marine Fisheries Service Briefing on Marine Mammal Protection Act
Economic Hardship Exemptions, Washington, D.C., May 11, 1973.

International Whaling Commission Annual Meeting, London, England, June 25-28,
1973; Christine Stevens spoke as an observer for Friends of the Earth in favor of
the whaling moratorium.

 




 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing

income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s
much-needed work depends upon such support.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kicrnan, M,D, Samuel Peacock, M.D.

Bennett Derby, M.D. F, Barbara Orlans, Ph,D, John Walsh, M.D.

Lee R- Dice, PhD' International Committee
T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. — Greece David Ricardo — Canada N, E, Wernberg _ Denmark
Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. —— United Kingdom P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V. —~ France

Ofﬁcers

Christine Stevens, President Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer Barbara Gould, Administrative Assistant
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary

 

 

 

 




 




THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Presented Annually with an Award of $500 for

an Outstanding Contribution to Animal Welfare

In 1954 a gold replica of the Medal was presented to
Dr. Albert Schweitzer by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, where
Dr. Schweitzer had gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. .

SCHWEITZER MEDALLISTS

1955 Dr. Robert Bay, veterinarian in charge of a colony
of 500 experimental beagles, whose humane treat-
ment of the animals and high standards of care
and housing exemplify the purpose for which the
Medal was struck.

1956 Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M. I.
Biol, Director-General of the Universities Feder-
ation for Animal Welfare, London, England, au-
thor, speaker, Founder of U.F.A.W., which pion-
eered in enlisting scientific efforts for animal wel-
fare.

1957 Paul Kearney, author of ”The Case for Humane
Vivisection,” the first article calling for humane
treatment of research animals to appear in a na-
tional magazine.

1958 Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, then Sen-
ator Humphrey, author of the first humane slaugh-
ter bill introduced in the Congress of the United
States and Chief Senate Sponsor of the Federal
Humane Slaughter Act, passed in 1958.

1959 Congressman W. R. Poage, Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, United States House of
Representatives, then Chairman of the Livestock
and Feed Grains Subcommittee and Chief House
Sponsor of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

 




1960

1961

1962

1963.

1964

1 965

1966

Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E., Founder, and Chief
Z. S. Fundikira, President, of the Tanganyika
Branch of the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, numbering 40,000 African
members. Presentation of the Medals in Africa
was made by the Honorable G. Mennen Williams.
In New York the Honorable Adlai E. Stevenson
made the Schweitzer Award address.

William H. A. Carr, author, reporter, and animal
columnist.

Rachel Carson, author of Silent Spring.

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, whose
discovery and reporting on hundreds of Food and
Drug Administration test dogs perpetually caged
in a sub-basement led to Congressional action pro-
viding comfortable kennel runways for them.

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police
Force, whose prompt reporting on suffering and
neglect of experimental animals led to improve-
ments in their care.

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States Abe Fortas, author of the first Fed-
eral bill to require humane treatment of research
animals, and counselor to the Animal Welfare In-
stitute and Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion, to which he donated his services until his ap-
pointment to the Court made it necessary for him
to give up the private practice of law.

Senator Warren G. Magnuson and Senator A. S.
Mike Monroney, who sponsored and fought for
enactment of P. L. 89-544, the Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act, passed by a vote of 85 to 0 in the
United States Senate.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Box 3492, GRAND CENTRAL STATION
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10017

 




 

 

1967 - Dr. Francis Mulbern & Dr. Earl Jon

1968 - Dr. John F. Quinn

1969 - Stan Wayman
1970 Bob Cromie
1971 - Congressman Thomas Foley

1972 .- Russell $1901 Train

1973 - Scott McVay

 




EIGHTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

© TCSPS

Illustration for the front-page article on Endangered Species Legislation which
appeared in The Christian Science Monitor, February 20, 1969.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3492
rand Central Station

ew York, N. Y. 1001

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

EIGHTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
July 1, 1968 to June 30, 1969

Endangered Species

Hearings on Endangered Species bills were held February 19th and 20th
before the Subcommittee on Fisheries and Wildlife Conservation of the House
Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee, by Congressman John Dingell.

Senate hearings followed May 14th and 15th before the Energy, Natural
Resources and Environment Subcommittee of the Senate Commerce Com—
mittee chaired by Senator Philip Hart.

The House of Representatives passed by unanimous consent a bill, H.R.
11363, which had been co—sponsored by every member of the Subcommittee
that heard the testimony.

AWI testimony for the legislation was presented at both hearings, and
the AWI participated in meetings with conservation groups, leather and
fur trade organizations, and the associated AFL-CIO unions, which took
place between the 90th and 91st Congressional sessions to discuss differences
and prevent opposition to the needed legislation. These meetings, organized
by Arnold Mayer, the union’s Washington representative, resulted in a major
change in attitude by the fur and leather trade, and the union which opposed
Senate passage of the bill in the 90th Congress, supported the legislation in
the 9lst Congress.

Published Comment on Animal Experiments by School Boys and Girls

The October, 1968 issue of The Science Teacher carried an article by
Dr. F. Barbara Orlans entitled “The Boundaries of the Use of Animals in
High School Biology.” The article was a product of study extending over
a period of more than five years. Dr. Orlans is a member of the AWI Com—
mittee on Humane Standards for Research Animals.

The work of Dr. Orlans and of Mrs. Robert Dyce, AWI Laboratory
Animal Consultant, in this field was also noted in John Hillaby’s article,
“Sanctified Torture,” in the British scientific journal, The New Scientist,

January 9, 1969.

On May 10, 1969, the N ew Y ark Times editorialized under the title,
“Prizes for Torture,” against what it characterized as “this unhealthy fad,”
noting that “science fairs at the local, state and national level often award
prizes to students whose only real achievement has been the deliberate or
inadvertent torture of animals.”

 




 

Reprints of the Orlans and Hillaby articles and The New Y or/e Times
editorial are available free on request from the AVVI. Excerpts from Dr.
Orlans’ article appeared in Veterinary N ews, the journal of the New York
State Veterinary Medical Society.

Publications

The fourth edition of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, a manual
provided free on request to scientific institutions by the AWI for the past
1.5 years, was produced this year with the aid of experts consulted by the
AWI. 5,543 copies were distributed this year. The largest new section is
that on anesthesia, analgesia, and euthanasia prepared by Dr. Harry Rowsell
and published with the kind permission of the Canadian Council on Animal
Care for which it was assembled. The Animal Health Division of the United
States Department of Agriculture examined the manuscript in the light of
the regulations which they administer under the provisions of PL. 89—544,
the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, to ensure that nothing in the manual
is contrary to these requirements.

Mr. Ernest Bélanger whose important contributions to the care and
housing of research animals was shown in the AWI film, “Laboratory Dogs,”
made numerous suggestions for additions to the new edition of Basic Care
of Experimental Animals. Mr. Ernest Gregory, longtime Secretary—Treasurer
of the Canadian Society for Animal Care, made further additions based on
his day—to—day experience in animal colony management.

The size of the manual has been increased from 68 to 78 pages. It is
being used widely in the training of animal technicians.

The first edition of Animals and Their Legal Rights, published in 1968
with 10,000 c0pies, was almost completely exhausted before the end of the
year covered in this report, and revision was underway to include new laws.
5,680 public libraries received free copies during the year, and law libraries
of universities have requested free copies in many instances. 2,865 copies
were sent free to humane societies or sold at cost to others. Provision of
free copies to law enforcement agencies is planned when the new edition is
available.

A one—page circular giving five Reasons Why Animal Experiments by
High School Students Should Be Painless was written by Dr. Orlans
and published this year in conjunction with the Rules Governing Treatment
of Animals by High School Biology Students which the AVVI has been
distributing for the past decade. 6,000 copies were distributed during the year.

A continuous flow of the AWI manuals that are free to school teachers
has continued throughout the year. Listings of these materials was carried
by the Catalog of Free Teaching Materials, Free and Inexpensive Learning
ildaterials, Edncators Index of Free Materials, Elementary Teachers Guide
to Free C nrricnlnm lldaterials, Selected Free Materials for Classroom Teach—

 

 

 




 

 

 

ers, Free and Inexpensive Educational Aids, and the National Association
of Biology Teachers’ News and Views. Teachers took AWI publications
personally when they Visited the Institute’s booth exhibit at the National
Science Teachers’ Association in Dallas and the Philadelphia Science Teach—
ers’ Association in Philadelphia.

AWI publications on the care of laboratory animals were distributed at
meetings of the American Animal Hospital Association, International Com—
mittee on Laboratory Animals, American Veterinary Medical Association,
Delaware Valley Branch of the American Association for Laboratory Ani-
mal Science, and the Western States Veterinary Conference, as well as
through the mail. These included 3,152 copies of “Comfortable Quarters
for Laboratory Animals,” 103—page collection of floor plans, construction
details and equipment; 3,461 copies of “Animal Expressions,” whose 106
photographs by leading photographers help interpret the feelings of animals;
89 copies of “The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique,” 238—
page book by W.M.S. Russell and BL. Burch, and 160 copies of “An In—
troduction to the Anesthesia of Laboratory Animals,” by Phillis Croft, the
two last-named, sold at cost price.

AW I publications or films were listed by Veterinary Economics, Labora-
tory A zzimals Centre Newsletter, The Journal of the American Veterinary
Association and Texas Hospitals.

Following are statistics on the distribution of AWI materials for ele-
mentary and secondary schools for the year:

Manuals

4,224 copies of the 48—page illustrated manual, “Humane Biology Projects.”

4,773 copies of the 46—page illustrated manual, “First Aid and Care of Small
Animals,” by Ernest P. Walker.

2283 copies of the l72—page illustrated book, “Studying Our Fellow Mam—
mals,” by Ernest P. Walker.

Reprints and Statements

10,000 copies of “Sanctified Torture,” by John Hillaby, reprinted from The
N ew Scientist, 9 January, 1969.

7,000 copies of “The Boundaries of. Use of Animals in High School Biology,”
by F. Barbara Orlans, reprinted from The Science Teacher, Oct, 1968.

2,000 copies of “Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,” by Dr. W. W.
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State
University.

1,050 copies of “The Abuse of Animals in the Classroom and How It Can
Be Avoided,” reprinted from American Biology Teacher.

 




 

1,000 copies of “A Question of Value,” reprinted from The Ladies Home
Journal.

1,500 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Education.

Leaflets

10,000 copies of “Good Kind Lion” by Fougasse, published by the Universi-
ties Federation for Animal Welfare.

2,300 copies of “You and Your Dog,” l6-page coloring booklet for children.
4,500 copies of “Kittens and Cats,” l6—page coloring booklet for children.

Other materials distributed included 400 copies of “Toward the Ideal in
an Animal Shelter,” reprinted from Gaines Dog Research Progress, 2,500
leaflets describing AWI manuals, 325 animal care leaflets, 275 manufac-
turers’ leaflets on humane slaughter equipment, 75 copies of the Council
of State Government’s Uniform Humane Slaughter Bill, and 152 reprints
and leaflets published by the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare
concerning laboratory animals. Twenty copies of Fougasse’ anthology of
poems, “The Neighbors,” were sold at cost.

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

>“American Veterinary Medical Association. Annual meeting, Boston, Massa-
chusetts, July 21-25, 1968.

waelaware Valley Branch of the American Association for Laboratory Ani-
mal Science. Regular meeting, Philadelphia, September 11, 1968.

United States Livestock Sanitary Association, Annual convention, New
Orleans, Louisiana, Animal Welfare Committee meeting, October 7, 1968.

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, Annual meeting. Las

Vegas, Nevada, October 21—25, 1968.
Animal Welfare Institute. Annual meeting. Washington, D.C., Dec. 10, 1968.

United States Animal Health Association Animal Welfare Committee meet—
ing, O’Hare, Chicago, Illinois, December 18, 1968.

TWestern States Veterinary Conference of the Intermountain Veterinary
Association, Annual meeting, Las Vegas, Nevada, January 19—25, 1969'.

National Capital Area Branch, American Association for Laboratory Animal
Science, Symposium, Washington, D.C., January 21, 1969. Dr. Bennett
Derby spoke.

T1830 Club meeting. Washington, D.C., February 23, 1969.

'§‘Pharmacology Department, Cornell University Medical School, New York
City. Symposium, March 6, 1969.

e E~ i at 9"




 

*National Science Teachers Association. Annual meeting, Dallas, Texas,

March 21—25, 1969.

*American Animal Hospital Association. Annual convention, Washington,

D.C., April 8-11, 1969.

*International Committee on Laboratory Animals. Symposium, Washington,

D.C., April 8-11, 1969.

International Society for Protection of Animals. Annual meeting. American
Humane Association. Regional meeting, Washington, D.C., April 22—23, 1969.

TRegional Training Course, Animal Health Division, United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Excelsior Springs, Missouri, May 6—9, 1969.

International Science Fair, Fort Worth, Texas, May 6—9, 1969.

TVirginia Federation of Humane Societies. Annual meeting. Richmond,
Virginia, May 18, 1969. Dr. Orlans spoke.

Schweitzer Medal

The 1968 Schweitzer Medal was presented to Dr. John F. Quinn, State
Veterinarian of Michigan, by Mr. Jack Howard, President of the Scripps-
Howard Newspapers and Scripps—Howard Broadcasting Company. The
medal was awarded in recognition of the practical advancement of animal
welfare in the enforcement of Michigan laws protecting meat animals and
research animals, and his wisdom in creating the first standing Committee
on Animal Welfare of the United States Animal Health Association when
he served as the Association’s president in its 72nd year.

In presenting the medal, Mr. Howard said, “I don’t believe we will ever
achieve our goals in human welfare without achieving our goals in animal
welfare.”

Dr. Quinn responded by emphasizing that, though he gives them great
credit, the work of the animal welfare societies is not enough, and that
everyone connected with animals “must be encouraged to take part in a con—
centrated effort to see that all animals receive decent treatment.” This broad-
ening of the effort to prevent mistreatment of animals is essential to a gen—

eral advancement of animal welfare.

Advancement of the Welfare of Research Animals by
the United States Department of Agriculture
A steady improvement in the lot of research animals covered by Public

Law 89—544 has continu€d as the US. Department of Agriculture’s Animal
Health Division veterinarians bring about compliance With the law’s humane

 

>l‘Indica‘Ees AWI booth exhibit. . .
TIndicates paper presented at meeting by AWI pre51dent.

 




 

requirements. Dogs, cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs in
dealers’ premises, scientific institutions, and in transit between them must
be given adequate veterinary care, and animal housing must meet minimum
standards set by U.S.D.A.

Listing of registered research facilities was completed and published in
The Federal Register, August 31, 1969. A, total of 533 facilities with ap-
proximately l,500 inspection sites were listed.

On December 22, 1968 the license of one of the largest laboratory ani—
‘mal dealers in the United States, Dierolf Farms, Inc., was suspended for
14 days after the firm was charged with shipping dogs and cats without
proper identification in crates that were not easily accessible for emergency
removal of animals, that were not large enough for the animals, and that
had no intervening floors to prevent animals from contaminating other ani-
mals on lower levels, and with selling cats that had not been held for the
required five days.

U.S.D.A. issued a cease and desist order prohibiting Dierolf Farms
from continuing the practices listed. It is estimated that the business loss
incurred during the period of suspension amounted to several thousand dollars.

By July, 1969, nineteen cases were pending under PL. 89—544, to en-
force the provisions of the Act in cases where compliance could not be ob—
tained by less stringent means.

During the spring and summer of 1969 regional training courses were
held by U.S.D.A.’s Animal Health Division for its personnel who are active
in enforcement of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. Workshops at which
veterinarians and lay inspectors from the area considered the best means
of dealing with the many problems of enforcement were lively. The active
discussions showed the high degree of interest animating Animal Health
Division personnel to do a first—rate job.

In each of the four regions, representatives of an animal welfare organ—
ization, a research facility, and an animal dealer were invited to talk and
answer questions. Instruction in the preparation of cases for legal action
was provided by the Laboratory Animals staff of the Animal Health Division.

This year, the Veterans Administration contracted with U.S.D.A.’s
Animal Health Division to inspect all of its animal laboratories and areas
where the animals are housed. Under PL. 89-544, the various agencies of
the federal government which use research animals are authorized to maintain
the standards promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture. The Veterans
Administration decided to make use of the expertise of the U.S.D.A. veteri—
narians and requested them to inspect all research animals whether or not
under experimentation and whether or not included in the groups of animals

specified in PL. 89-544.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals

The Committee has given consideration to projects proposed to the AW I
to advance laboratory animal welfare, and has prepared a statement for dis-
tribution to the members of the American Zoological Society concerning ani-
mals in high school biology teaching and science fairs. The statement is to
be issued in the autumn of 1969 together with reprints of articles on the
subject.

International Committee

A new AVVI committee was formed this November which includes
members from six different countries. Major C. W. Hume, of London, Eng—
land, Founder of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare; Dr.
Sydney jennings of Mexico City, Mexico, a professor of veterinary medicine
who is currently working with the Food and Agriculture Organization;
David Ricardo of Vancouver, Canada, a founding member of the A\V I
Advisory Committee; Dr. Pierre Rousselet—Blanc of Paris, France, Vice-
President of the Brigade de Defence des Animaux; NF. VVernberg, of
Copenhagen, Denmark, head of the firm of Consulting Engineers and Archi—
tects for the Food Production Industry which has developed and promoted
a large variety of carbon dioxide anesthetizing equipment for meat animals
before slaughter; and Dr. T. G. Antikatzides of Athens, Greece, who joined
the committee in the spring of 1969. He is a veterinary consultant of the
Greek Animal Welfare Fund and founder of the new Greek Society on
Laboratory Animals.

The AWI International Committee represents a step toward formal
recognition and expansion of the work which the AWI has taken part in
from its earliest years through the advice it has obtained from knowledgeable
humanitarians and experts in different countries, and through distribution

of AWI publications on a worldwide basis.

Laboratory Animal Consultant

For the seventh consecutive year, AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant,
Dorothy Dyce, has visited the animal quarters of scientific institutions in
different parts of the country, attended conventions and conferences re-
lating to these animals, and assisted institutions with advice and informa-
tion on good care and treatment of their charges.

This year, Mrs. Dyce gave considerable attention, too, to science fairs
and high school biology teaching, in a continuing effort to prevent cruel
Experiments by untrained youths. She visited the 1969 International Science
Fair in Dallas, accompanied by Miss Marybeth Vaughn, a gifted photographer,
dedicated to the welfare of animals, who photographed numerous exhibits
to document the nature and extent of teenage projects that cause pain or

 




 

fear to animals. Some of these photographs were published in Information
Report Vol. 18, No. 2 together with photographs from the Ingham County
Science Fair showing a sixth grade girl who won a Certificate of Merit as
a brain surgeon.

Model State Law to Regulate Roadside Zoos

The United States Department of Interior, after extensive consulta-
tion with animal welfare and zoological groups during the year, drafted a
model bill and regulations which were submitted to the Council of State
Governments for consideration at its annual May meeting in \Vashington,
D.C. Last minute withdrawal of the Department’s support caused the matter
to be tabled by the Council. However, a formal request by the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation to reinstate consideration of the proposal
with appropriate amendments was made at the division meeting where the
bill would have been discussed. It is hoped that favorable action will be taken
by the Council of State Governments in May, 1970 so that a bill will be
available to state legislatures to license roadside zoos and require decent
standards in the care, feeding and housing of animals.

To give an example of the extreme neglect and abuse of animals in
some of these establishments, a quotation from a letter of complaints sent
to the AWI this March by a professional zoologist follows: “parrots clinging
to wire for lack of perches . . . a male baboon, his face so badly flea— or lice—
bitten he cannot see. When water was present, it was foul. No food remains
were present. Virtually all animals were lying in their own waste matter.”
This quotation appeared in Robert Gannon’s “The Inhumane Traffic in
Exotic Pets” in The Readers Digest, also.

AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant, Mrs. Dyce, inspected and found
that similar conditions had been in existence over an extended period of
time. Only with great difficulty and intensive effort was it possible to achieve
disposal of the animals by sale or euthanasia. Conditions such as these should
never be allowed to develop. Adequate regulation of roadside zoos is badly
needed.

Information Reports

21,000 copies of the AWI Information Report were issued quarterly.
In addition to the subjects noted in the foregoing, there were articles on
the use of tranquilizer tabs to prevent the extreme pain and fear inflicted
by steel leg—hold traps (Vol. 17, No. 4); a move to end calf castration as
reported in The Progressive Farmer in an article by the editor, Mr. C. G.
Scruggs (Vol. 18, No. 1) ; mistreatment of experimental animals in Japanese
laboratories, as reported by Dr. Anthony Carding (Vol. 18, No. 1); the
establishment of a wild horse range by Secretary of the Interior, Stuart Udall
(Vol. 17, No. 3); the proposal for a Rachel Carson Memorial in an article

 

 

 




 

 

 

by Ann Cottrell Free (Vol. 18, No. 2); and the tenth anniversary of the
Federal Humane Slaughter Act (Vol. 17, No. 3).

The Information Reports are sent without charge to all members of
the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, all Deans
of Medical and Veterinary Medical Schools, all members of the AWI, all
humane societies, and to several thousand individual veterinarians, teachers,
scientists, administrators and librarians who have asked to receive them.

Ernest P. Walker

The movement for animal protection and conservation of nature lost
a great friend when Ernest P. Walker died this February. Author of two
of the AWI’s major publications, Studying Oar Fellow Mammals and First
Aid and C are of Small Animals, and a contributor to Humane Biology
Projects, Mr. Walker was in process of planning “Be Kind to the Earth,”
a project involving films, film strips and publications which he hoped to see
distributed on a broad scale with the aid of foundation financing. His death
brought an end to these plans as such, but the AWI will continue to dis-
tribute his work and to draw upon the photographs and written materials
which he generously donated to the Institute to carry out the purposes he
had in mind insofar as available finances permit.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s
much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. - Bennett Derby, M.D. - F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Paul Kiernan, M.D. - Samuel Peacock, M.D. - Richard G. Pearce, D.V.M.

John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.——United Kingdom

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece - P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V.——France
Sydney Jennings, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.A.—Mexico - David Ricardo—Canada
N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Officers

Christine Stevens, President - Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary - Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Dorothy Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant - Barbara Gould, Publications Secretary

 




 




SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

ANIMAILS AND IIIHIIEIR
ILIEGAL RIGHTS

by Emily Stewart Leavitt and other authors

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

 

Cover of the new AWI book, Animals and Their Legal Rights.
Sir Edwin Landseer’s “Laying Down the Law” puts
expressive canine faces into a courtroom scene said to
represent real Victorians.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station
New York, N.Y. 10017

 




 

SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
July 1, 1967 to June 30, 1968

Publications

Animals and Their Legal Rights, by Emily Stewart Leavitt and
other authors was completed and published this year, four years after
its conception. Mrs. Leavitt began work on it when she was Librarian
at Montclair State College, collecting material by correspondence with
State Law Librarians and by working at the Columbia Law Library
and the New York Public Library and going through AWI files. The
Moses Foundation stepped in at a critical point when Mrs. Leavitt
learned that she had only a short time left to live. Through the Founda-
tion’s generosity it was possible for her to devote full time to work on
the book which she did till her death. The Moses Foundation further
generously assisted with the cost of publication of the book on its
completion.

Divided into fourteen chapters and an appendix, numerous state
and federal laws are published in their entirety while analyses of
similar laws in some chapters provide the necessary information.
Chapter headings are: The Evolution of Anti-Cruelty Laws in the
United States; First Federal Law to Prevent Cruelty to Animals;
Humane Slaughter Laws; Laboratory Animal Welfare; Cruelty on the
High Seas, Importation of Wild Animals and Birds; Dogs; Cats;
Horses; Laws Regulating the Sale of Small Animals and Birds; Fight-
ing and Baiting; Trapping; Humane Education in the Public Schools;
Organizations for the Protection of Animals; Marine Mammals. Appen-
dix headings are: State Laws Regulating Transportation of Livestock;
Federal Humane Slaughter Act; Foreign Anti-Cruelty Laws and
Humane Slaughter Laws; Foreign Laboratory Animal Welfare Laws;
British Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876; French Decree Regulating EX-
periments on Animals, 1968; Michigan Law Licensing Animal Dealers;
Laws on Hit and Run Drivers; Keeping Live Birds to be Shot At;
Easter Chick Laws, Ordinances; Massachusetts SPCA Rules Govern-
ing Horse and Ox Pulling Contests; Animal Health Division, US.
Department of Agriculture, Field Stations and Veterinarians in Charge;
State Law Libraries; Annotated Statutes of the States; Schweitzer
Medallists; Bibliography; Some Publications of the Animal Welfare
Institute.

The AWI is indebted to experts who contributed some of the
chapters to the book: the Animal Health Division of the US. Depart-
ment of Agriculture wrote the chapter on transportation of livestock,
entitled “First Federal Law to Prevent Cruelty to Animals.” The
Division is the enforcement agency for this law, and the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act. Frederick A. Ulmer, Jr., Curator of Mammals
at the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens, wrote the chapter on importa—
tion of wild animals and birds. Pearl Twyne, President of the American
Horse Protection Society, wrote the chapter on horses, and Lewis
Sharpley, President of the Dog Writers Association of America, wrote
the chapter on dogs.

 




 

Animals and Their Legal Rights is available from the AWI at a
cost of one dollar, and contributions for placement of copies in libraries
continue to be gratefully received.*

Distribution of Publications

During the year, demand for AWI publications has continued to
grow. The entire printing of 5,000 copies of Animal Expressions was
exhausted by requests from veterinarians, biologists and others who
saw the manual with its 106 illustrations at AWI booth exhibits or
read about it. Veterinary Economics described it, and hundreds of
veterinarians wrote to obtain their free copy.

Approximately 5,000 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Labora-
tory Animals were requested by scientists, architects and veterinarians
during the year. Individual copies are sent free on request to qualified
people to assist them in remodelling or designing animal quarters in
a way that provides adequate space for the animals and comfortable,
pleasant surroundings for them and for those who care for them.

School teachers who learn of AWI publications through booth
exhibits at the National Association of Biology Teachers or the National
Science Teachers Association, or through listings such as Free and
Inexpensive Learning Materials have been requesting manuals, leaflets,
rules governing treatment of animals by high school biology students,
and other materials in ever increasing numbers. Single copies of AWI
manuals are provided free on request to any teacher who writes for
them for classroom use. During the year over 5,000 copies of Humane
Biology Projects (41 pp.), 3,500 cOpies of Studying Our Fellow Mam-
mals (172 pp.), and 5,000 copies of First Aid and Care of Small
Animals (46 pp.), were sent to teachers. All these manuals are pro-
fusely illustrated with photographs taken by Ernest P. Walker (author
of the last two mentioned), and others, and help meet the need for
humane science teaching materials so strongly felt by so many teachers.

The Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools, by Dr. W. W.
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State Uni-
versity, is often requested with these manuals, and its sound recom-
mendations have undoubtedly prevented many cruel and useless pro-
jects from being undertaken while encouraging sound humane and
scientific ones which do not harm animals.

The AWI also distributes a variety of leaflets for use in the early
elementary grades, Good Kind Lion, by Fougasse being especially
popular for the development of humane attitudes among very young
children. You and Your Dog, Kittens and Cats (coloring books), and
Befriending Animals (a reprint from Childhood Education which sug-
gests humane educational methods in elementary schools) are among
others most frequently requested.

Two new leaflets were prepared during the year, one describing
Animal Expressions, the other describing the AWI film, “Laboratory
Dogs” (16 mm. sound, 17 minutes) which shows humane care of a

*As of October, 1968 over 5,000 public libraries in all parts of the United
States have received free copies, and the response has been enthusiastic.

 

 




 

group of experimental dogs without the use of cages. Four different
listings of material were prepared for elementary teachers, secondary
teachers, the general public, and veterinarians.

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

American Veterinary Medical Association. Annual meeting, Dallas,

Texas. July 9—13, 1967. (AWI booth exhibit)

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science. Annual meeting,
Washington, DC. October 2-6, 1967.

United States Livestock Sanitary Association. Annual meeting, Phoenix,
Arizona. October 16—20, 1967.

Animal Welfare Institute. Annual meeting, Washington, DC. Novem—

ber 27, 1967.

National Association of Biology Teachers. Annual meeting, Anaheim,
California. February 28-March 2, 1968 ( AW I booth exhibit.
Paper presented by Dr. Barbara Orlans).

National Science Teachers Association. Annual meeting, Washington,
DC. March 28—April 2, 1968. (AWI booth exhibit)

Michigan Veterinary Medical Association. Annual meeting, Boyne
Mountain, Michigan. June 22—25, 1968. (AWI booth exhibit)

Schweitzer Medal

The 1967 Schweitzer Award was presented by Senator Spessard
Holland to Dr. F. J. Mulhern, Deputy Administrator for Regulatory
and Control of the Agricultural Research Service, US. Department
of Agriculture, and Dr. Earl M. Jones, Senior Staff Veterinarian,
Laboratory Animals of the Animal Health Division. In presenting the
medals, Senator Holland pointed to the pioneer work of the medallists
in enforcement of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89—544,
and tied this achievement to their past work in USDA’s Animal Health
Division. “Those of us who are interested so deeply in humane objec-
tives toward animals for their own sake,” Senator Holland said, “real—
ize how frequently these objectives are coupled with economic reasons
for their legal enforcement. As to our two men—men that have per-
formed outstanding services in the two campaigns which I shall mention
—one the eradication of a terrible disease of animals, and the other,
eradication of a pest scourge of the greatest destructive importance,
I am glad that we are coupling our interest in humaneness for its own
sake with tremendous economic values that come from humaneness in
the treatment of animals which serve mankind.”

In response, Dr. Mulhern said, “This award signifies to me the
need to be consistent; that we cannot have different standards of
reverence for different species of animals. They must be equal or the
lower standard for one species will have its detrimental effect on the
other species. Empathy for all species is essential if we are interested
in making this a better worlc.” Speaking of enforcement of the Act,
he said, “Inhumane practices in the handling of these animals must




stop.” Concluding, he forecast that “there will come a time in the not
too distant future when all persons involved in his program will fully
appreciate the benefits to be derived by this Act. I predict that some
will wonder why this legislation was not passed sooner. In addition
to the progress made to date, we will see the inhumane practices elim-
inated, improved facilities for handling research animals, and also a
better research model from which to draw better conclusions and results.
If we can just keep in mind the example set by Dr. Schweitzer. . .”

Dr. George Mehren, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture said,
“For the Secretary, the Department at large, and for myself, I thank
you for the help you have given us in a difficult but most important
task . . . I think I know your values and your purposes, and they are
our purposes. In the work that you are doing, we are with you without
reservation, without equivocation, and without qualification. The work
that you are doing must be done. Science will be the better for it. More
important, the quality of human life will also be the better.”

Laboratory Animal Welfare Act

AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant, Dorothy Dyce, continues
to find major improvements being made in the care and housing of
research animals due to enactment and enforcement of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89—544. Cramped cages observed year after
year in many laboratories despite intensive efforts by AWI representa-
tives to obtain changes, have now been replaced in accordance with
USDA regulations. Cats have resting boards. Dogs have space to
move about in, and, increasingly, exercise areas are being routinely
provided for them. Rabbits can stretch out naturally. Monkeys are no
longer forced to crouch in cages barely big enough to hold them.

Five hundred thirty-three (533) research facilities with approxi-
mately three times that number of inspection sites were registered by
USDA during the course of the year and inspected at least twice. Some
of the dealers previously licensed under the self-certification system
found they could not meet the standards and went out of business.
Others went into business with another licensed dealer. For these and
other reasons 36 dealers gave up their licenses. At present there are
183 licensed dealers in 35 states and the District of Columbia. Some
of the dealers made investments of hundreds of thousands of dollars
in order to comply with the standards. The licensed dealers indicated
on their applications that they will handle over 239,000 dogs and 82,000
cats. Nineteen research facilities requested additional time in order to

comply with the standards.

The Mules

When campaigners for the Southern Christian Leadership Con-
ference started to drive north in mule—drawn wagons, a number of
complaints of cruelty to the mules were received by the AWI. We ad-
vised those who called to obtain veterinary inspection of the mules
as they proceeded and insist on proper treatment of the animals. How—
ever, when they arrived in Washington, many were 1n extremely bad
condition, and no provision had been made for their care and feeding.

 




 

The Arlington Animal Rescue League and the U.S. Park. Police pro-
vided temporary assistance, and Mrs. Paul Twyne, Pres1dent of the
League, ruled that several of the mules could not be used at all because
of the seriousness of their condition.

AWI volunteers arranged for the 24 remaining mules and two
horses to be transported to the Columbia Horse Center where an ex-
cellent pasture was rented. It had a stream runnmg through it and
large trees for shade. The mules made rapid progress eatlng steadily,
the thinnest ones changing from near skeletons to comfortable-looking
animals. Veterinary treatment was obtained, and the ages of the ammals
estimated. Many were apparently in their twenties or thirties.

Because of the expenses of renting the pasture, the mules were
moved to the farm of Mrs. Polk Guest who has generously allowed
all except those that were reclaimed by the S.C.L.C. for return to their
owners to remain there. Generous contributors helped to pay the cost
of veterinary care, transportation and pasture rental, but unpaid bills
still remain, and members interested in helping these mules who had
certainly suffered and who now are so greatly enjoying the rest and
good food, are invited to send contributions for the Mule Fund.

Information Reports

During the past year many more veterinarians, science teachers,
libraries and other individuals and institutions have begun to receive
the Information Reports issued quarterly by the Animal Welfare In-
stitute. Approximately 21,000 copies of each issue are now being dis—
tributed. Illustrations are being used more frequently and, to ensure
clarity of detail, white glossy paper has replaced the blue mat paper.

The new format was adopted with Information Report, Volume
17, Number 2 in which photographs were shown of a squirrel monkey
into whose head holes had been drilled for the placement of electrodes
by a high school youth. The experimental animals (a total of 25 had
been used by the boy whose “experiments” had gone on for four years,
from age 14 to 18) were kept in small cages without water on a cold
floor, though two monkeys kept for display purposes in his booth were
comfortably housed. He said he had done four different electrode im—
plants on one of the monkeys he had brought with him. This monkey
was moribund when AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant, Dorothy
Dyce succeeded in obtaining veterinary care for it. A necropsy per-
formed at Michigan State Veterinary College revealed that the monkey
was suffering from a purulent infection underneath the dental caulking
which covered the holes bored in its skull. The electrodes which the
would-be high school scientist had sought to implant missed their
mark. As stated in the Report of Laboratory Examination by Dr.
Kenneth Keahy, “The electrodes did not pass through the skull into
brain tissue. There were, however, small holes through which the
electrodes could have passed if embedded properly.” The boy used
a stereotaxic instrument holding the animal rigidly with steel bars
pressed into ears, mouth and the area immediately below the eyes.
The drug used to immobilize the monkey was Sernylan, described by

 




 

the youth as an anesthetic but not so considered by many better quali-
fied persons. ‘

In the same Information Report the most comprehensive survey
of science fairs yet undertaken was reported by Dr. Barbara Orlans,
a member of the AWI Scientific Committee. Dr. Orlans reported on
eleven fairs, nine of which she personally visited. Titles of projects
involving pain or death to vertebrate animals were listed, and per-
centages of biology projects were taken which indicate that untrained
youths are more prone to inflict pain or death on vertebrate animals
than are university-trained scientists who have specialized and become
knowledgeable in a particular field. Dr. Orlans’ figures indicate that
over 50,000 animals are hurt annually by high school students taking
part in science fairs. The public press is often the medium which leads
them to select their “scientific” activities, and the spectacular clearly
has strong appeal as shown by the selection.

Dr. Orlans demonstrates the fallacy of depending on an adult
supervision clause as guidelines issued by various scientific organiza—
tions have done in the past. The physical safety of the student is
involved in some cases, his emotional and moral safety in others.

As a pharmacologist and physiologist conducting animal experi-
ments at the National Institutes of Health until her duties as a mother
of two young sons caused her to retire, and as a licensee under the
British Act which regulates animal experiments, Dr. Orlans speaks
with a voice of authority and understanding on the subjects of high
school experiments. Her recommendation is for painless experiments
by students of that age and degree of training. The case she makes
for this view in Information Report, Volume 17, No. 2 is a. strong one.

In Information Report, Volume 16, No. 3 Dr. E. E. Saulmon,
Director of USDA’s Animal Health Division, discussed “Animals and
Animal Health.” Painful diseases of livestock have caused great eco-
nomic loss in the past, but the efficient regulatory work of the Division
has greatly reduced the suffering and waste. As Dr. Saulmon empha-
sized in his article, the aim of the Division is eradication of animal
diseases. The work of the Division in humane handling of animals in
transit by rail and by water is summarized in the article.

A report on the work of the Animal Health Division in England
during the Foot and Mouth outbreak there was reported in Information
Report Vol. 17, No. 1, and in the same report, articles on the activity
of the New York State Humane Association in support of humane
slaughter legislation, and on the Fountain Committee’s Report on the
National Institutes of Health and its failure in a number of cases to
deal responsibly with government funds.

Other articles on subjects not covered in this annual report include
a detailed description of a pre-slaughter humane handling device for
lambs, sheep and calves killed for the kosher market (Information
Report, Vol. 16, N0. 3), an article entitled “AWI Supports PL. 89—544,
the Laboratory Animal Welfare, Opposes Javits-Rogers Repeal Bill,”
and reviews of Ernest P. Walker’s Studying Our Fellow Mammals.

 




   
   

    

 

  

Testimony at Hearings

Testimony was submitted on behalf of the Animal W’elfare In-
stitute in support of increased appropriations for the enforcement of
the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89—544, to the Subcommit—
tees on Agricultural Appropriations of both the US. House of Repre—
sentatives and Senate.1

When hearings were held on a bill to provide funds for a variety
of educational institutions relating to health but omitting veterinary
medical schools, the AW I requested at both House and Senate hearings
that veterinary schools be included. This important amendment was
made before enactment of the bill.

When the Endangered Species Bill came up for hearings before
the Senate Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Merchant Marine
and Fisheries, testimony on the urgent need for passage of the bill to
prevent cruelty to the vanishing species was submitted by the AW 1.3

1. Final action was detailed in a letter to Senator Spessard Holland from Acting
Secretary of Agriculture, John A. Schnittker, October 28, 1968 as follows:
“Our appropriation Act provides a specific appropriation of $307,000 for ad—
ministration of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act this fiscal year. In addi—
tion, up to $600,000 to be obtained from other program activities of the
Agricultural Research Service is to- be used for this work in accordance with
the report of the conferees on the 1969 appropriation bill. Although all of the
programs in the Agricultural Research Service are of high priority and it will
not be easy to obtain these additional funds, the Department of Agriculture
intends to enforce this Act in a first rate manner. In other words, we will do
the entire job and will find the funds to enable us to administer this Act
within the total amount of $900,000.”

2. The Endangered Species Bill was favorably reported by the Senate Commerce
Committee but failed to be voted on by the Senate in the rush for adjournment.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in
computing income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are
most gratefully accepted for the general fund or for special purposes.
The extension of the Institute’s much—needed work depends upon
such support. ' '

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kiernan, M.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D. Samuel Peacock, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Richard G. Pearce, D.V.M.
Nicholas Gimbel, M.D. John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.———United Kingdom
Sydney Jennings, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.A.—Mexico

David Ricardo—Canada

P. Rousselet—Blanc, D.V.—France

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Officers
Christine Stevens, President Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice—President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Dorothy Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant
Barbara Gould, Publications Secretary

 




SIXTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

 

A\ N H I\/\ AIL _
IEXPRIEssuoNs ‘* '

 

Cover of the new AWI publication, Animal Expressions,
A Photographic Footnote to Charles Darwin’s “Expression
of the Emotions in Man and Animals,”

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. BOX 3492 Grand Central Station
New York, N.Y. 10017

 




SIXTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
July 1, 1966 to June 30, 1967

P. L. 89-544, the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, the First Year

On August 24, 1966 humane care of research animals became law.
It was the ﬁrst action ever taken by the United States Congress to pro-
tect these animals. In signing the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, Presi-
dent Johnson said, “As Dr. Schweitzer has reminded us: ‘The quality
of a culture is. measured by its reverence for all life,’ PrOgress, particu-
larly in science and medicine, does require the use of animals for research
and this bill does not interfere with that. But science and research do not
compel us to tolerate the kind of inhumanity which has been involved in
the careless and callous handling of animals in some of our laboratories.
This bill will put an end to these abuses. At the same time the bill does
not authorize any sort of interference with actual research or experimen-
tation. They just must go on. But I am sure that all of us are very glad
that the Congress has wisely seen ﬁt to make provision for decent and
humane standards in the procurement and handling of the animals that
are necessarily involved. I thank those of you who are here for this cere-
mony. I appreciate the efforts that you have made to make this event
possible. I have no doubt but with the passing of the years, the wisdom
of your action will be thoroughly demonstrated.”

The Animal Health Division of the Agricultural Research Service
was assrgned the task of enforcement. Composed of 788 veterinarians and

838 lay inspectors, the Division is experienced in control and eradication
of animal diseases.

Dr. Earl M. Jones was named Senior Staff Veterinarian in Charge
of Laboratory Ammals. He heads a small staff at Hyattsville which works
in cooperation w1th the Federal Veterinarians in Charge in each state.

Plans were made by the Department for efficient enforcement of the
new law, and a request for a supplemental appropriation was submitted
in the amount of $1,650,000 in 1966. It soon became apparent that the
House Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropriations under the chair-
manship of Congressman Jamie L. Whitten was unwilling to vote the
necessary funds for enforcement, though none of its members had pr€--
viously expressed hostility.

. Following is a schedule of the actions of the Appropriations Com-
mittees in House and Senate:

Supplemental request by the United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture after signing of the law. Au-

gust, 1966 $1,650,000.00
House Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropria-
tions recommended -0-

Senate Supplemental Appropriations Subcommit-

tee recommended for survey of dealers and

laboratories that would be licensed or registered

and for writing the regulations 35 800,000.00

 

 




 

Conference between the House and Senate
Committee reduced the amount to $ 300,000.00

The law speciﬁcally required that. dealers be licen-
sed by May 24th if they were to sell to laboratories
but the Department could not inspect because no
funds whatever had been appropriated for that
purpose. Congressman Whitten, who had opposed
and sought to reduce all proposals for funding, now
insisted that in order to prevent a halt in the ﬂow
of dogs to laboratories, the Department must
amend the regulations to allow dog dealers to cer-
tify themselves and to- obtain licenses on their own
affidavits. At the second Senate Supplemental
hearings, Senator Monroney asked for $ 500,000.00

U.S.D.A. representatives at the hearing re-
sponded to questions stating that so little time
was left till June 30th that they could use only $ 150,000.00

Senate approved $ 150,000.00

In Conference between House and Senate, Con-
gressman Whitten again fought hard against the
appropriation, and it was reduced to $ 25,000.00

This $25,000, designated for travel, was the first
money that could be used to do (my inspection of
dog dealers by the Department of Agriculture.
Meantime. 139 dealers certified themselves. Their
names were published in, The Federal Register
June 23, 196-7.

Budget request for Fiscal Year 1968 $1,500,000.00
Senate Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropria-
tions recommended $1,200,000.00
House Subcommittee on Agricultural Approvpria-
tions recommended $ 300,000.00*

Working under difficult conditions, the Department issued a notice
of Proposed Rule Making in The Federal Register, December, 1966. It
received more comments on these rules than on any others ever proposed
~ over 6,000. Most controversial issue was that on provision of exerc1se
for caged dogs. Some scientists and all persons.- associated with animal
protective work, urged that such requirements be included, whereas
numerous members of the scientific establishment argued that exerc15e
Was unnecessary and emphasized by wire, letter and phone that there
was no scientific evidence to prove its need.

*October 9, 1967, The Senate—House Conference stated: “The appropriation pro-
vides for enforcement of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act at a cost not.t0
exceed $1,200,000. Enforcement work in the ﬁeld is to be handled by ex1st1ng
trained personnel as far as possible and additional funds requ1red are to he pro-
vided by transfer from lower priority work considered to be less essential. The
Actual appropriation was only $300,000-

 




 

 

When the final regulations were promulgated, February 24, 1967.
they concluded with a statement that “The Department proposes to pro-
vide for studies on environmental and behavioral factors influencing
the health, comfort and safety of animals being transported and main-
tained for research purposes, including the element. of exercise.” These
findings will determine a decision on final regulations on the subject.

Though the standards are incomplete and though they are minimum
standards, their promulgation has already had a most beneficial effect
on care and housing of animals both in dealers’ premises and in labora-
tories. Cage manufacturers have increased the size and improved con-
struction of their products to eliminate the kind of flooring that can
catch animals’ feet and, often, to include resting boards or perches. They
proudly advertise that the new equipment conforms with the law. A
number of dealers have completed major construction of kennels costing
as much as $11,000.

Rules of Procedure for prosecution of violators had not been com-
pleted by the Office of the General Counsel of the Department of Agri-
culture at the time this report was published, but inspections and collec-
tion of evidence by Department veterinarians and lay inspectors are
proceeding as rapidly and thoroughly as available funds allow. The
AWI submitted testimony in support of needed appropriations to both
regular House and Senate Agricultural Appropriations and Supple-
mental Appropriations Subcommittees. It has submitted evidence on the
value of exercise and companionship for animals to the Department to
assist it in its scientific appraisal of these matters. It has submitted photo-
graphs of transportation, handling and housing of research animals by
dealers and research facilities to the Department and reported on find-
ings made by the AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant.

Schweitzer Medal

Senator Warren Magnuson and Senator Mike Monroney were Sch-
weitzer Medallists for 1966 in recognition of their tremendous contribu-
tion to the welfare of research animals. Senator Magnuson is Chair-
man of the Senate Commerce Committee which reported out the bill
that became PL. 89-544, the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. Senator
Monroney, a member of the Committee, was the author of the Mon-
roney Amendment to restore coverage of animals in laboatories to the
bill after this had been repeatedly removed by forces hostile to objective
enforcement of humane standards in the care and handling of these
animals.

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, Abe Fortas, made the pre-
sentations of the medals. He characterized the Senators’ achievement
as “an act which ennobles the doer and raises our civilization to a higher
and better level. It is a tribute to the kind of law this is,” he continued,
“that Senator Magnuson and Senator Monroney were among its cham-
pions. Nothing could better assure that the law is good sense as well as
commendable idealism. For both of these Senators are pragmatic men
-— and I think that history may well record that the law which they
championed proved to be not only a milestone in America’s spiritual
progress, but a boon to the quality of scientific work in which animals
are used.”




AWI Scientific Committee on Humane Standards

for Research Animals

A new committee, all of whose members have long been actively
interested in advancing the welfare of laboratory animals, was formed
this year. The AWI Scientific Committee is composed of physicians,
veterinarians, and research workers who have had broad experience
with animals under various circumstances. Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.,
Bennett Derby, M.D., Nicholas Gimbel, M.D., Paul Kiernan, M.D.,
Samuel Peacock, M.D., Richard Pearce, D.V.M., and John Walsh,
M.D., are the members. They are concerned with the adoption of stand-
ards for care and housing of research animals by scientific institutions
and animal suppliers.

Publications

This was a record year for publications by the AWI. First, Ernest
Walker’s Studying Our Fellow Mammals, in preparation for more than
three years, was published. With 152 illustrations in its 172 pages, it
is an outstanding contribution to the better understanding of mammals,
both through scientific observation. and from the standpoint of the hu-
mane educator who would focus attention on the individual animal for
its own sake. Its publication, subsequent to Genera of Recent Mammals
of the World, the three-volume Walker classic published by the Johns
Hopkins Press, places it in the form of a sequel to these major reference
volumes and a commentary on them. Ernest \Valker’s genius for com-
munication with animals is evident in Studying Our Fellow [Mammals
The AWI offers single copies free to teachers. To others, it is available
at cost, $1.00.

The second major publication of the year was the new, revised edi-
tion of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals. The loose-leaf
form used since the first edition in 1955 was abandoned; and about half
of the contents is entirely new, emphasis being placed on photographs
of laboratory animal quarters, supplied by institutions which have out-
standingly good quarters for one or more species of animals. The
manual includes photographs and drawings under the following head-
ings: Primates, Dogs, Cats, Farm Animals, Rabbits, Guinea Pigs,
Small Animals and Birds, and Miscellaneous Items. Particular emphasis
is placed on adequate space for all species of animals housed.

Just before the end of the fiscal year, a completely new publication
was brought out by the AWI, Animal Expressions. Sub-titled A Photo-
graphic Footnote to Charles Darwin’s “Expression of the Emotions in
M an. and Animals,” it consists of expressive photographs taken by such
leading photographers as Stan Wayman of Life, whose photographs of
dogs in the premises of animal dealers for the Life story, “Concentra-
tion Camps for Dogs,” brought more letters to Life than any other
story ever run in the history of the magazine; Erica Anderson, whpse
books and films showing the work of Dr. Schweitzer at Lambarene
are so widely known and admired; Ernest Walker, whose. profusely
illustrated books have brought home the importance of the 11v1ng animal
to biologists throughout the world; the National Geographic Soc1ety,
which generously assisted in obtaining photographs by Hugo van Law1ck
of wild Chimpanzees observed by his wife, the former Jane Goodall;

 




 

 

and others, less widely known, but equally devoted to the welfare of
:animals: Marybeth Vaughn, Eugenia Whitnel, and workers for the
Japan Animal Welfare Society. All contributed their work to the book.

The evaluation of the photographs was made by Dr. Francis J.
Mulhern, Deputy Administrator of the Agricultural Research Service,
Dr. Michael Fox, author of Canine Behavior and Canine Pediatrics,
from the Thudichum Psychiatric Research Institute, and Ernest Be-
langer, designer of the Ottawa system of care and housing of research
dogs. The AWI is deeply grateful to these experts as it is to those who
so generously provided the photographs, for making Animal Expressions

possible.

Animal Expnessions is offered free, on request, to veterinarians
and to persons employed by research institutions in the management of
animal colonies or the care of animals. It is available to others at cost

price, 75¢.
Film

A 16 mm. sound film, seventeen minutes in length, entitled “Labo-
ratory Dogs,” was completed during the year and made» available to
laboratories and others interested. The ﬁlm is documentary in nature,
showing the system in use, at the University of Ottawa, Faculty of
Medicine, under the supervision of Ernest Belanger, Animal House
Superintendent when the film was made. Emphasis is placed on the
large degree of freedom allowed to- the dogs who are housed in compat-
ible groups in rooms supplied with wood shavings to rest on, and a
constant supply of dry food and water. Use of a long, outside roof run-
way is shown.

The film is available on free, short-term loan from the US. Public
Health Service, Audiovisual Facility, Atlanta, Georgia. It may be pur-
chased from the AWI for $50, the production of the film having been
underwritten by a generous contributor.

Mr. Belanger made a series of visits to scientific institutions and
groups in New York, Tmnessee, Michigan, Maryland and the Dlstrict

of Columbia, answering questions after the showing of “Laboratory
Dogs.”

Laboratory Animal Consultant

Mrs. Robert Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant of the AWL has
continued her visits to laboratory animal rooms, animal dealers’ pre-
mises and Trade Days where animals are sold or traded by dealers fol”
resale to scientific institutions.

A chance occurrence during a routine laboratory visit underlined the
importance of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89-544, the day
after it. had gone into effect for animal dealers. A collie dog wearing ItS
license tag was noted by Mrs. Dyce as she walked past its cage at
Veterans Hosp-ital in Ann Arbor. She called it to the attention of those
1n charge and notified the Oakland County authorities who promptly
traced the dog’s owners who had been searching for their animal for"
three months. Thunder had undergone experimental surgery; 110W$Ver’

 

 




 

 

he is now recovered and. living happily at home with his owners, the
James Sho-rters and their seven children. When the dog’s identity was
established, he was released promptly by the Veterans Administration
Hospital. An investigator for the United States Department of Agri-
culture obtained affidavits from all those concerned, but it was not pos-
sible to learn where the dog had been during the long period of his
absence from home. The hospital had had him for a few days only.
Thunder was sold to the hospital by the dog dealer, Edward Radzi-
lowsky, alias Rogers, who, when he returned to the laboratory and
learned that the license tag had been observed by Mrs. Dyce, removed
the tag and discarded it. His own sworn testimony is the source of this
surprising information. Now that P.L. 89-544 is in effect, all dogs
purchased by laboratories from licensed dealers must be identified and
their source made a matter of record.

On a return visit to the animal quarters of the University of Minne-
sota Medical School, Mrs. Dyce was authorized by the School to ac-
company its veterinarian in making complete rounds of the dogs quarters
(capable of housing 1,400 dogs) and removing from their cages any
dogs too large to stand and lie normally. Photographs of some of these
dogs were also taken with the permission of the institution.

Information Reports

Each issue of the quarterly Information Report was distributed
to approximately 17,000 individuals and groups, including libraries,
institutions of learning, laboratories, veterinarians, humane soc1eties,
members of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental
Biology, and members of the AWI.

Articles on subjects not noted above included “A Painles‘s Method
of Branding Livestock,” developed by Dr. R. Keith Farrell; A Study
Of Procurement. of Research Dogs and Cats,” summarized from the
repOrt of the Senate Fact Finding Committee on Public Health and
83-f3ty of the State of California under the chairmanship of Senator
Walter B. Stiern, a. veterinarian, who gave thorough study to the ques-
tiOn of state-wide mandatory legislation to send impounded animals to
laboratories, and decided against it; “NeurophySiologist, Dog Breeder
Comments on Dog Housing,” by Dr. Samuel Peacock; several brief
1reports on state legislation enacted to license animal dealers, rggiﬁtei:
laboratories, strengthen penalties for pet theft or to prohibit bull_ 1g ts,
a rePort on a federal bill introduced by Senator Joseph Tydingsﬁto
st0p soreing of Tennesee Walking Horses; and editorials from '1?
New Y ovrk Times and The Christian. Swen-re M omtor, and a cartoon
from The San Jose M ercm’y N ews, all urging adequate funding for
PL. 89-544, the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

Humane Education

A Special project of providing h
the District of Columbia was conduc
mgton Animal Rescue League this year.

Thousands of additional requests from educators througgogtftplei:
country for the educational manuals and other materials prov1 e

umane education kits to schools in
ted in cooperation With the Wash-

 




  

 

to school teachers were received and filled. Most popular of these items
are: First Aid and Care of Small Animals, H umame Biology Projects,
Studying Our Fellow Alammals, Good Kind Lion, Kittens and Cats,
You and Your Dog, Befriending Animals, and Abuse of Animals in
the Class Room and H ow it Can be Avoided.

  

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in
computing income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most
gratefully accepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The ex—
tension of the I nstitute’s much—needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo Dr. F. Barbara Orlans

Officers

Christine Stevens, President Alfred R. GlanCy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Scientiﬁc Committee On Humane Standards For Research Animals

Dr. Marjorie Anchel Dr. Bennett Derby Dr. Nicholas Gimbel
Dr. Paul Kiernan Dr. Samuel Peacock
Dr. Richard G. Pearce Dr. John Walsh




FIFTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

Photo by Stan Wayman
Courtesy of Life magazine

“Lucky,” the dog on the opening pages of the February 4th Life magazine report,
“Concentration Camps for Dogs.” “Lucky” was purchased by AWI Laboratory
Animal Consultant, Dorothy Dyce, at an Oklahoma dog auction. He was placed
in a good home and has completely recovered from the starvation and disease he
suffered at the hands of dog dealers.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station
New York, N. Y. 10017

 




 

FIFTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
(July 1, 1965 to June 30, 1966)

Legislation Enacted to Require Humane Care of Research Animals

The year 1965—66 climaxed six years of effort to obtain protection
for experimental animals A dog that died on an operating table in Monte-
fiore Hospital in New York City after having passed through the hands
of fou1 different Pennsylvania dealers started the chain of events that led
to enactment of the new law. Peppei, the pet Dalmatian of the Lakavage
family, disappeared from her home on June 22, 1965. Exactly one year
later, on June 22, 1966, the U. S. Senate voted 85 to O to make theft
of dogs or cats for research a federal offense and to require humane care
and housing of dogs, cats, primates, rabbits, guinea pigs, and hamsters
by dealers and research institutions.

Fay Brisk, of the Animal Rescue League of Berks County, Penn-
sylvania, telephoned for assistance on July 2, 1965. She reported that
Mrs. Lakavage, accompanied by her three children, had driven to the
premises of the New York State dog farm operator, Nercessian, where
the Pennsylvania dog dealer, William Miller, stated he had taken his load
of 18 dogs and 2 goats after they had been held overnight and photo-
graphed at the animal shelter while Miller was detained on a charge of
overloading his truck. Mr. Lakavage, in the hospital with a heart attack,
had recognized Pepper’s photograph in the newspaper. His family went
in search of her at once, but the long drive to Nercessian’s was made in
vain. He would not allow Mrs. Lakavage and her children on the premises
to see if they could find their pet. Pleas to New York State ofﬁcials
proved futile.

A call to Senator Joseph Clark’s ofﬁce led to immediate action. His
assistant, Mrs. Sara Ehrman, called the ofﬁce of Congressman Joseph Y.
Resnick in whose District the Nercessian dog farm is located. He and his
staff tried hard to gain admittance for Mrs. Lakavage. Failing this, the
Congressman went to attorneys for the U. S. Department of Agriculture
and asked them to draft a bill which would put an end to such an injustice.

The attorneys worked rapidly, and Congressman Resnick introduced
H.R. 9743 on July 9, 1965. Senator Clark went to the floor to introduce
a companion bill; and Senator Warren Magnuson, Chairman of the Senate
Commerce Committee, rose on the floor for the same purpose. They co-
sponsored S. 2322, and Senator Daniel Brewster joined them in it.

The Senate bill was referred to Senator Magnuson’s Committee, which
guaranteed its serious consideration. However, Congressman Resnick’s
expectation that his bill would be referred to the Agriculture Committee
on which he serves was diashed when the parliamentarian placed it in the
House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, where bills relating
to laboratory animals had languished for six years without being reported
out. Fmtunately, Cong1essman Harold Cooley, Chairman of the House
Agiiculture Committee and a poweiful supporter of the Fede1al Humane
Slaughtei Law, enacted in 1958, asked that the bill be 1efe11ed to the
Ag1iculture Coinmittee, and this was done. i

 

/“\r

 

\
u‘ﬁ

 




d.

Congressman W. R. Poage, author of the Humane Slaughter Act
and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Livestock of the Agriculture Com—
mittee, called hearings on September 2, 1965; and the testimony showed
the overwhelming need for the legislation. On February 2, 1966, Congress-
man Poage introduced a bill, H. R. 12488, requiring humane care and
housing of all vertebrates for research in dealers’ premises, in transit, and
in laboratories.

Life magazine carried a powerful article on cruelty by dog dealers
in its February 4, 1966, issue, the lead picture being of “Lucky,” the dog
shown on the cover of this annual report and purchased by AW I Labora-
tory Animal Consultant, Dorothy Dyce.

A second set of hearings were held before the Poage Subcommittee,
March 7 and 8. By this time 31 bills had been introduced in the House of
Representatives on the subject, many of them identical to the Poage bill.
Variations included the Helstoski bill, which. did not require humane treat—
ment of animals inside the laboratories but which was considerably stricter
with regard to animal dealers, requiring them to provide the same care for
all vertebrate animals that a “responsible and conscientious owner” would
provide for a “household pet.” Bills introduced at the behest of the
National Society for Medical Research also avoided entering the laboratory
and even avoided any mention of laboratories at all, simply calling for
licensing of dog and cat dealers who sold animals in interstate commerce.
The Poage Subcommittee reported its Chairman’s bill with only minor
amendments, but} the full Agriculture Committee cut out all animals but
dogs and cats and pushed the jurisdiction back to the door of the lab—

ioratory. The House passed this bill 352 to 10 on; April 28.

Meanwhile in the Senate, Senator Hugh, Scott introduced S. 3059 on
March 8. It was identical to the original Poage bill before it was weakened
by the Agriculture Committee.

On March 25 and 28, the Senate Commerce Committee held hearings
on S. 2322, the Magnuson—Clark-Brewster bill, and S. 3059, the Scott bill.
Although the National Society for Medical Research. had succeeded in
having its bill introduced in the House of Representatives by Representa—
tives Ancher Nelsen, Donald Fraser, and Albert H. Quie, no Senator

,had introduced this bill as the hearing began; but on March 25. Senator

Mondale put in a bill identical to the NSMR House bills. Opponents of
S. 2322 and S. 3059 continued to argue that laboratories must not be
included in the bill. They referred often to the AAALAC (American As—
sociation for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care), a group for
whose existence Dr. Visscher, President of the NSMR, took credit, which
would voluntarily inspect laboratories. ostensibly eliminating the need for
government intervention. 1 7

During the Easter Recess, the Commerce" Committee staff prepared
a new version of S. 2322, removing the bill’s jurisdiction; over the treat-

ment of animals inside the laboratories. When Senator Mike Monroney

read the draft, he prepared an amendment restoring the laboratories to
the bill. From that time forward, the Monroney Amendment became the
center of the fight-on laboratory animal legislation. In addition to the
pressures brought by organized science and medicine, the Humane Society
of the United States and the American Humane Association both opposed
the MonrOney’ Amendment, too. They said they. preferred the Rogers-

 




 

McIntyre bill, pending in the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce
Committee and the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee, which
put the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in charge of en-
forcement. Bills on the subject had been bottled up in these Committees
for six years, and they remain bottled up.

Senator Magnuson had stated his determination to get a bill out of
his Committee, and numerous meetings and discussions were held on the
Monroney Amendment.

On May 10, 1966, Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of the Senate Labor
and Public Welfare Committee, introduced a bill prepared by the National
Institutes of Health; and Congressman Harley O. Staggers, new Chair-
man of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, intro-
duced an identical bill on May 25. Congressman John Fogarty, Chairman
of the Health Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, also
introduced this bill on May 18. Commenting on this legislation, the
Washington Evening Star wrote:

The Animal Cruelty Bills

“Congress at last is headed toward enactment of a law to require humane
treatment of animals used in laboratory research and to halt thefts of pets by
dealers supplying this market.

“At the eleventh hour, however, a snag has been encountered in the Senate
Commerce Committee. Medical researchers, hostile to government supervision,
(but not governent grants, it should be added), are attempting a switch play.
A! bill introduced by Senator Hill of Alabama would head off federal inspec-
tion of how laboratories tr’eat animals awaiting experiments. Instead this
authority would be given to a private group.

“The medical men, in fact, have such a group all ready and waiting. Set up
last year, it is called the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory
Animal Care. Its members are of the establishment; all are staff members
of medical schools and research institutions. And, as the association’s brochure
suggests, the “inspections” would be rather friendly affairs.

“There would be no surprise audits, such as those routinely carried out now
in the banking industry, for example. Instead a visit would be scheduled by
‘mutual convenience.’ It would not come distressingly often —— no more than
once every five years. The inspectors, according to the brochure, would charge
fees ranging up to $1,000 for their trouble.

“If the laboratories are in fact treating their animals humanely, they should
have nothing to fear from a proposal by Senator Magnuson of Washington that
such inspections be made by the Department of Agriculture after standards
have been published. His bill has nothing to do with the anti-vivisectionists;
the government would not interfere with any laboratory tests or operations.

“Certainly the public should not be deluded into thinking the Hill proposal
represents any kind of adequate substitute for impartial inspection of such
institutions.”

At the May 25 hearings, testimony was limited to statements by
goVernment agencies and to four medical men, two: for and two against
the Monroney Amendment. Two humane medical supporters of the leg-
islation for protection of laboratory animals for which the AWI has been
working since 1960 came to: Washington to testify for the Monroney
Amendment to require humane care and housing of animals in laboratories
as well as by animal dealers: Dr. Nicholas Gimbel, Chief of Surgery,
Metropolitan Hospital, Detroit, and Professor of Clinical Surgery, Wayne
State College of Medicine, and Dr. Bennett Derby, Head of Neurology,

ref—4;

<29




s35;

<2»

Veterans Administration Hospital, New York City. Opposed by the Dean--
of the Medical School of \Vashington University in Seattle (Senator
Magnuson’s home state) and by Dr. Albert Sabin, discoverer of oral
polio vaccine, who testified for the NSMR, Dr. Gimbel and Dr. Derby
held their own strongly. Pointing out that the “welfare of animals should
be the responsibility of a body which is primarily interested in them...
the Department of Agriculture,” Dr. Gimbel stated, “If the‘scientists and
organizations represented in AAALAC had done their job properly, we
would not be holding hearings here today. The time has come to bring
in independent auditors.”

The Senate Commerce Committee followed this advice and on June 7
reported out an amended version of the House-passed H. R. 13881, in-
cluding a modified Monroney Amendment. On June 22 it went to the
Senate floor and passed with a record vote of 85 to O. The few Senators

unable to be present for the vote indicated in the next day’s Congressional

Record that, had they been there, they would have voted for it, too. Thus
the bill went to Conference with an overwhelming Senate endorsement.

In the course of the arduous fight for the Monroney Amendment, the
sanctions had been weakened. The House conferees, therefore, under the
leadership of Congressman Poage, agreed to accept the Senate amend-
ments (extending the humane requirements to laboratories as well as
dealers and including primates, rabbits, hamsters, and guinea pigs as
well as dogs and cats) on condition that the Senate accept the stronger
House sanctions, including issuance of the cease and desist order to lab-
oratories by the Secretary of Agriculture himself instead of having to
wait for court action and the provision of a penalty of $500, which will
apply to each day the facility fails to provide the humane care required
under the law. Thus the “compromise” reached was stronger and broader
than either the House—passed or the Senate-passed bill, a remarkable
achievement.

Schweitzer Award to Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortas

The first Schweitzer medal awarded since the death of the great
humanitarian in whose name it was created was presented to Justice
Fortas by a close friend of Dr. Schweitzer’s, Erica Anderson. Mrs.
Anderson, who has made two films and written two books about his life
and work, spoke with feeling at the AWI annual meeting. She said,
“You have kept your heart open to the silent pleas of% animals and you
have worked untiringly to» alleviate their pain. If it had not been for
your efforts, the Humane Slaughter bill might not have passed in 1958. . .
You wrote the bill of which Dr. Schweitzer said: ‘If you pass such a law
in the United States, it will have important meaning for the world.’ . . .
I thank you, Mr. Justice Fortas, with all my heart for keeping Dr.
Schweitzer’s ideals alive.” Justice Fortas has, indeed kept those ideals
alive. His profound understanding of the Schweitzerian ethic was ex-
pressed in his response stressing compassion and reverence for life. He
said: “Without this awareness, there is no foundation, no ‘base tone’ for
philosophy, for religion or poetry or music —— or for political idealism.
And this awareness requires —- it does not merely tolerate —- it requires
that it be comprehensive, that it include all of life, not merely part —-
that it include all creatures that share in the mystery.” The full text of
Justice Fortas’ remarks is published in Information Report Vol. 14, No. 5.

 




 

.AWI Grant on Habitat of White Mice in a Laboratory Environment

A paper published by the M 5 U Veterinarian .reports the work of
Helene Artsay in a carefully recorded study of laboratory mice (the most
commOnly used of all laboratory animals) in cages offering different
types of bedding or complete lack of bedding. A strong repugnance was
shown by themice against having to sleep on wire mesh or on unclean
solidﬂcages. They all preferred cedar shavings.

The research, carried out by Miss Artsay, now a graduate vet—
erinarian, was planned under the guidance of Dr. Lee R. Dice, AW I
Advisor. Funds for the grant were from a gift made by Mrs. Robert
S. Brookings.

AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant

During the year, Mrs. Dyce has continued to inspect quarters for lab—
oratory animals both in the laboratories themselves and in the dealers’
premises. The result of one of these inspections in October. 1965, was the
bringing of a charge ‘of cruelty to animals against \«Villiam and Roy
Hargrove, dog dealers of Medina, Tennessee, and Cicero, Illinois, sup—
pliers to Washington University in St. Louis, Mo, to the University of
Illinois, Chicago, and to Presbyterian-St. Luke’s Hospital, Chicago. The
triple-decker Hargrove truck has been photographed at the Ripley,
Mississippi, Trade Day; and the absence of the Hargroves on long dog
Collecting and selling trips is the cause of the cruelty charge for leaving
the animals unfed and unwatered at the Medina dog farm. Photographs
showed a dog that. had died, dogs too sick to get to their feet, general
filth, including a bovine skull and bones long picked clean of any scraps
of meat by the starving dogs. A Grand Jury indicted the Hargroves on

December 27, 1965. *

In January 1966, Mrs. Dyce, taking with, her a copy of the Minn—
eapolis Tribune in which Dr. Kubicek of the University of Minnesota
MediCal SchoOl was quoted as saying that Visitors were welcome to come
at any time with or without a camera, went to three parts of the medical
school where experimental dogs are housed and returned with photographs
of many of the 1,400 dogs the University keeps in small cages without
exercise facilities. Since most laboratories refuse to allow photographs to be
taken of the premises, these pictures have been of great value in showing
persons who have not visited research institutions the type of needless
suffering so often routinely inflicted on animals and justified by recipients
of millions of dollars of. grants from the Federal Government. (The
University of Minnesota received over eight million dollars last year in
grants.) - '

Mrs. Dyce, who is a member of the Governor’s Committee on inspec—
tion ”of research institutions in the State of Michigan, obtained essential
imprrwements in two Michigan institutions during the year through her
reports of neglect or mistreatment of animals.

Film

Laboratory Dogs, a film demonstrating first—rate care of experimental.
dogs under the management of lLrnest Belanger at the University of
Ottawa School of Medicme, was nearing completion at the. end of the year.

*The Hargroves were found guilty of cruelty September 2, 1966.

 

 

 




Produced by Crawley Films, under the direction of Don Carter, the film
shows the personal attention and observation given the animals in quarters
where cages are never used. The remarkable results attained even in the
most severe surgical experiments are attested to by the complete physical
recovery of the animals and their great affection for the men who care
for them. The film will soon be available for purchase or rental by research
laboratories and by lay persons interested in the kind of care of ex-
perimental animals which keeps the subjects content and brings the best
research results.

Studying Our Fellow 1W ammals, by Ernest P. \Valker, was completed
and in press at the end of the AWI fiscal year to be ready for distribution
as schools reopen.

Testimony by British Medical Leaders

On September 30, 1965, hearings were held before the House Inter—
state and Foreign Commerce Committee on bills regulating animal (ex-
periments. H. R. 5647, sponsored by Congressman James C. Cleveland,
identical to S. 1071, sponsored by Senators Joseph S. Clark, E. L. Bartlett,
Harry Byrd, Edmund Muskie, and Stephen Young, is based on the
principles of the British Act of 1876. In order to acquaint members of
Congress with the nature of these principles and their practicality,
Sir Graham \Nilson and Dr. Lawrence Abel were invited by ofﬁcers of
the AW I to come to Washington to. make statements on the Act and
answer questions which might be put to- them by Committee members.
Sir Graham, formerly Director of the Public Health Laboratory Service
of Great Britain, praised the Littlewood Report and; described the duties
of the “specially appointed inspectors possessing a medical or veterinary
qualification. Their main purpose is regulatory and educational rather
than disciplinary. In their visits to the laboratories, they satisfy them-
selves about the suitability of the conditions under which the animals are
kept and of the general well—being of the animals themselves . . . They do
not interfere with the nature of the procedures that the license holder
wishes to carry out, so long as they are satisfied that the animal will not
be subjected to unjustifiable pain.”

Dr. Abel, former Vice—President of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England and Consulting Surgeon to the Institute of Cancer Research.
Royal Cancer Hospital, pointed out that each research worker in Britain
“is proud of his individual license because it is not granted to an ir—
responsible person or one with no scientific capacity.” He said, “The.
standard of responsibility is much higher in Britain than in countries which
have no such,_law and very much higher than it would be without legal
sanctions.”

Information Reports

Articles in the bi-monthly Information Reports, in addition to subjects
already mentioned, included a report by Dr. Anthony Carding of the
Japan Animal Welfare Society, “Too Many Dogs,” an article by Mrs.
Paul Twyne on cruelty to Tennessee Walking Horses, a report on passage
of the Michigan law eliminating bounties on coyotes and foxes, a refuta-
tion of misrepresentatiOn of the work of the AWI in “True” magazine,
a refutation of. charges of cruelty to dolphins by the U. S. Navy, a state—

 




ment by Dr. Albert Heustis, Michigan Health. Commissioner, concerning
the practicality of the Michigan law licensing and regulating the treatment
of experimental animals in Michigan laboratories, and a letter from
Lord Brain in praise of the British Act, in which he states: “One of
these advantages is that it (the Act of 1876) imposes a definite responsib-
ility upon the individual experimenter to comply with explicit regulations
amongst the most important of which is the obligation to destroy an
animal suffering pain.”

Emily Leavitt

The AWI lost a valued worker, Emily Leavitt, who died at her home
in Vermont, where, fighting against illness, she sought to complete the
book she was working on under an AWI grant, “Animals and Their Legal
Rights.” Mrs. Leavitt, a librarian who had done the most thorough and
effective research on legislation affecting animals in this country, dis—
covered that the first anti—cruelty legislation was American, passed in
1641 in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Prior to this discovery, it had
been generally assumed that Great Britain led the world in legislating
against cruelty to animals. Mrs. Leavitt’s work will be completed, as she
wished, by others; and as soon as publication is near, an announcement
will be made.

AWI Representatives Spoke at The Following:

Florida Federation of Humane Societies, annual meeting, Tampa, Florida,
September 24, 1965; Canadian Society for Animal Care, annual meeting, Ottawa,
Canada, October 14—16, 1965; Virginia Federation of Humane Societies, annual
meeting, Richmond, Virginia, October 17, 1965 ; New York State Humane As-
sociation, annual meeting, Bath, New York, October 30, 1965; Michigan Federa—
tion of Humane Societies, East Lansing, Michigan, November 6, 1966; Animal
Welfare Institute, annual meeting, Washington, D. C., November 20, 1965; Mary-
land Federation of Humane Societies, December 12, 1965; “The Open Mind,”
Eric Goldman television program, repeatedly broadcast from March 6, 1966, on;
Vic Caputo’s “Talk of Detroit,” Radio W.E.R.B., February 24, 1966, and
March 11, 1966; Sanctuary Sodality of the Shrine of the Most Blessed Sacra-
ment, annual meeting, Washington, D. C. April 6, 1966; Bob Kennedy television
show, Boston, Mass, May 13, 1966; Otsego County Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, annual meeting, Cooperstown, New York, June 11, 1966.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations,- large or small, are 'most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo Dr. F. Barbara Orlans

Officers

Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

 




FOURTEENTH ANNUAL R iPORT

 

Phhoté by Erica Anderson
Courtesy Harper & Row

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station;
New York, N. Y. 10017

 




 

F OURTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station,
New York, N. Y. 10017

(July 1, 1964 to June 30, 1965)

The Littlewood Report

The most important event in the past year with respect to the treat—
ment accorded laboratory animals in different parts of the world was the
issuance of the “Report of the Departmental Committee on Experiments
on Animals (Chairman: Sir Sidney Littlewood) Presented to Parliament
by the Secretary of State for the Home Department by Command of Her
Majesty, April, 1965.” This unanimous report, the result of a two—year
study during which time everyone who wished to express himself was
given an opportunity to do so, demonstrates conclusively the soundness of
the British system of regulating animal experimentation. The committee
made numerous recommendations for still further improving the Act and
its administration, but these recommendations all fall within the existing
framework and do not alter either the purpose or methods which have
worked so well for nearly ninety years.

The lead article of the B ritrish Medical Journal for May 8, 1965 was re-
printed in full in Vol. 14, No. 3 of the AWI Information Report and
shows the approval of that body both of the Act and of the report of the
Littlewood Committee.

The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare is referred to re-
peteadly throughout the body of the report, and the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is eager to see the recommendations it
made implemented. Thus, a subject capable of inspiring the most violent
controversy has been successfully dealt with by preventing the needlessly
cruel experiments which are conducted in countries which lack legislation
of this type and by recognizing, as the report states, that “The role of
legislation is to prohibit objectionable activities, to encourage humane
practices, and to provide for the accountability to the public of all con—
cerned.”

The need for similar legislation in the United States, Canada, Japan
and Greece has been very fully documented by animal protective workers
in these countries. Undoubtedly, many other nations are equally in need
of the guidance so conveniently available in the form of the Littlewood
Report. A limited number of c0pies is available at cost ($3.25) from the
AWI ; or they may be ordered from the British Information Office. Sales
Division, 845 Third Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10022.

Bills To Require Humane Treatment Of Experimental Animals.

On February 9, 1965, Senator joseph S. Clark (D., Pa.) again intro-
duced his bill, S. 1071, for humane treatment of laboratory animals with
the following co—sponsors: Senator E. L. Bartlett“ (D., Alaska), Senator

 

 




 

 

Harry F. Byrd (D., Va), Senator E. L. Muskie (D., Maine), and Sen—
ator Stephen Young (D., Ohio). Senator Clark stated on the Senate
Floor: “The growing list of co—sponsors is representative of an increasing
awareness of the problems which this bill attacks and of the need for
legislaticm to deal with these problems. This is not a liberal or a con—
servative, a rightwing or a leftwing measure. It has broad ideological sup—
port. It has the support of all men, both liberal and conservative, who are
concerned about the kind of record our civilization is making in caring for
helpless, speechless, voteless animals who can. form no pressure group or
lobby of their own, but must rely entirely on the compassion of those who
can speak out and can vote.”

On March second, Congressman James C. Cleveland (R., N. H.) in-
troduced an identical bill. In introducing the bill he said: “Humane pro—
tection for laboratory animals is a proper concern for any civilized society.
I have studied many proposals and am convinced my bill will provide stand—
ards of humane treatment without impairing legitimate research. It fol-
lows closely the guidlines established in England in 1876. That law is still
in force today and has the approval of the overwhelming majority of re-
sponsible British scientists . . . British medical research ranks with
the best in the world. It has not been harmed by the law requiring humane
care of animals. Surely, we can do no less, and I shall do everything in
my power to see that this bill becomes law.”

Press support for the bill, was widespread and strong. Among the newspa~
pers urging enactment of the bill were : The Courier-Journal of Louisville,
Kentucky, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, The Dallas
(Tex) News, The Denver (Colo) Post, The Oregonian, The Milwaukee
(\Vis.) Sentinel, The Sacramento (Calif) Bee, The Ann Arbor (Mich)
News, The Tacoma (\Vash.) News Tribune, The Albany (N.Y.) Times
Union, The Orlando (Fla) Sentinel, The Erie (Pa) Morning News, The
Keene (N. H.) Evening Sentinel, The Aspen (C010,) Times, The Camden
(N.J.) Courier-Post, The Southern Pines .(N.C.) Pilot, The Mount
Kisco (N. Y.) Patent Trader, The Bethesda—Chevy Chase (Md) Tribune,
The Manchester (NHH) Union Leader, The Montgomery (Ala) Ad-
vertiser. The Dallas (Tex) Times Herald, The Bowling Green (Ky)
Park City News, The Royal Oak (Mich) Tribune, The Danbury (Conn.)
News-Times, The Bergen (NJ) Record, The Deseret News (Utah),
The Wakefield (Mass) Item, The Pike County (Pa) Dispatch, ,The
Lakeville (Conn.) Journal, The Decatur (Ala) Daily, The Trenton
(N.J.) Times, The Mobile (Ala) Register, The Laconia (N.H.) Eve—
ning Citizen, The Newton (Conn.) Bee, The Milford (N. Y.) Roundt‘able,
The New Milford (Conn.) Times, The Easton (Md) Star—Democrat,
The Pawling (N.Y.) News—Chronicle, The Battle Creek (Mich) En—
quirer and News, The Chatham (N. Y.) Courier, The Meriden (Conn.)
Journal. The Louisville (Ky.) Times, The Beaver (Pa) Times, The
Port Jervis (N. Y.) Union Gazette, The Kingston (N.Y.) Daily Free-
man, The Fairbault (Minn.) News, The Walden (N. Y.) Citizen Herald,
the Atlantic City (N.J.) Press, The Medford (Oregon) Tribune, The
Athens (Ohio) Messenger, The Greenville (S. C.) Piedmont, The Auburn
(N. Y.) Citizen-Advertiser, The Vineyard Gazette (Edgartown, Mass).
The Ocean City (N. J.) Daily Observer, The Kennebec Journal (Augusta,
Maine), The Saugerties (N. Y.) Post, The Verona (N. J.) Cedar Grove

Times.

 

 




 

The editorials called for hearings; but at the end of the year covered
in this report, none had been held. *

The A\V I is grateful, too, for the active support of individual com-
mentators, Marc Greene, of the Providence (R. I.) Journal, June Havoc
of W OR and \VOR-TV, and Randi, whose all-night radio program on
the same station has repeatedly rerun the debate in which Dr. L. R. Christ—
ensen and Dr. Richard Egan opposed Dr. Orlans and Mrs. Stevens, who
represented the A\V I position. Senator Clark, Dr. Paul Kiernan, and
Dr. John Walsh appeared in taped interviews on Miss Havoc’s television
program, and a general discussion with pictures of conditions in lab—
oratories included Bob Considine, Cleveland Amory, Miss Havoc and
Mrs. Stevens. Public response to Miss Havoc’s prog‘am was tremendous.

Laboratory Animal Consultant

The AW’I consultant service has continued during the past year
through the generosity of a donor whose understanding of the need for
this work and determination to see it done deserves the very highest
praise. Dr. Anthony Carding, a British veterinarian who had done sim—
ilar work for the Greek Animal Welfare Society, spent three months in
the United States visiting laboratories with Mrs. Robert Dyce acting as
his assistant; and on his departure for Japan to carry on similar work
there, Mrs. Dyce was appointed to the position of Laboratory Animal
Consultant for the Institute. At the same time she received an appoint-
ment from the Governor of Michigan to the Advisory Committee on the
Humane Use of Animals, provided for under the laws of the State.

Mrs. Dyce, Dr. Carding, and Mr. Thomas Kind, the first Con-
sultant who has now returned to England, visited a total of 86 major
scientific institutions which use animals for experimental purposes since
the beginning of the project in January, 1964.

Improvements have been made in a number of the institutions visit-
ed; in particular, four in Michigan where the power of State law can
be invoked to require the necessary changes to be made. Most institutions
accept visits, even though they may or may not follow the advice received
from the AWI Laboratory Animal Consultants. However, a few lab—
oratories (for example, the University of Illinois, which has been featur-
ed in national publicity as being outstandingly excellent for the animals
and open to inspection by the public) have refused admission to one or
more of the Consultants; and in other institutions when changes have
been promised but not carried out, it has been difficult to pursue the
matter. The Consultant experience points to the importance of being able
to follow up information and education with mandatory action if 1'1ecessary.

The Schweitzer Medal To Patrolman Mobley

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police Force was Schweitzer
medalhst for 1964. He won the medal through his protest against mis-
treatment and neglect of a dog used in experimental surgery at \Vayne

* Hearings were held before the Health and Safety Subcommittee of the House
Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, September 30, 1965, and a continua-
tion of the hearings after the Congressional recess is expected.

‘@




State University College of Medicine. He stated:

“At about 9:30 P.M., on Thursday, July 9, 1964, while working
Sect. 1-1 with Patrolman Bloomfield, we received a radio run to the Mem-
orial Hospital about a complaint. Upon arriving, the head nurse at the
information desk stated a dog in the Wayne University Laboratory was
moaning and crying for three hours. It was disturbing the patients at the
hospital. We went to the laboratory, and the night watchman took us
to the basement, where we found two dogs in steel cribs. One loioked
dead but the other was crying as if in great pain. Blood and foreign mat-
ter was pouring from the mouth. Some of the blood was dry indicating
the dog was left to suffer some time.

“The dog seemed paralyzed, and the tongue was gagging the dog
to the point it could not get sufficient air. I asked the night watchman
what doctor was in attendance of the dogs if they were in a post~operative
state, and he merely stated that no one watches them, and everyone had
gone home. He said they are only interested in the time it takes before
they die.

“If this is called for, in the advancement of science, then GOD HELP

US ALL.”

Michigan State Health Commissioner, Dr. Albert Heustis, took de—
termined action and listed eight specific requirements for changes in the
care and treatment of the dogs, stating, “The Michigan Department of
Health has placed the animal quarters of Wayne State University on proba-
tion for thirty days, and we will seek compliance with the following pro—
cedures.” These included the provision of post~operative drugs, adequate
exercise, the availability of a responsible doctor at all times, and the re~
quirement that rounds be made when scientific personnel were not on
duty by someone properly trained in the care of sick animals. These stand-
ards should be in effect in all laboratories. Unfortunately, it is the rare
institution which lives up to them.

Publications

Basic Care of Experimental Animals. A new, revised edition was pub-
lished this year including a short chapter by Dr. Harry C. Eschenroeder,
The Use of Pre and Post Operative Analgesics in Experimental Animal
Medicine.” Dr. Eschenroeder notes: Many investigators are unfamiliar
with the fact that these drugs are both. scientifically advantageous and
aid greatly in humane handling of animals. It is indeed true that good
scientific technique and humane treatment are so closely allied that they
are almost inseparable.” The manual continues to be available free on
request to scientific institutions so that each animal technician or care-
taker may have a copy. 1717 copies were requested and sent last year.

Studying Onr Fellow iMa’z/nnmls, by Ernest l". Walker, author of the
classic, Mammals of the World, published by the john lilopkins Press
in 1964. The new book is moving rapidly toward publication. The mag-
nificent photographs are entirely assembled, and final editing is under—
way. The book will be available from the AWI at one dollar per copy to
the general public and will be available free to teachers.

Animals and Their Legal Rights, by Emily Leavitt. Mrs. Leavitt has
systematically studied and analyzed the anti—cruelty laws of the various

 




 

states and is now at work completing the book so long needed in our
country to give a clear understanding both of existing animal protective
laws and of those which need to be passed to bring our standards at least
to the level of the western European countries which have given serious
thought to the matter. Completion of the manuscript is expected in 1966.
Mrs. Leavitt’s work, begun in her spare time while employed as librarian
at Montclair State Teachers’ College, has been made possible by a grant
from a generous donor. Note: Animals and the Law, by T. G. Field-
Fisher. Barrister—at—Law, is a concise book on British legislation in this

field. (Available from AYVI, $1.50.)

C({HlfOI’lablP Quarters for Laboratory Animals. Numerous photographs
and plans have been collected, and a revised edition will be issued dur—
ing 1966. 247 copies were distributed on request to scientific institutions
during the year.

Humane educational materials requested by teachers throughout the
United States are constantly supplied by the AWI. A few totals for the
year: First Aid and Care of Small Animals: 2842; H'lltt'llallﬂ Bio-
logy Projects: 1713. A listing of materials available from the
A\V.l. including numerous publications of its sister society in Britain,
the Universities Federation for Animal \Yelfare, is available on request.

Protection Of The State Anti-Cruelty Laws

After a fierce campaign, the New York State Humane Association
prevailed against those who would have curtailed the anti—cruelty statutes;
and the bill amending the entire Penal Law of the State of New York
was amended to preserve all the laws against cruelty to animals and to
transfer them to the Agriculture and .i‘\[arkets Act.

This was an important victory, coming as it did after a similar vic—
tory in Minnesota. Attempts to weaken and restrict the anti—cruelty laws
in other states are certain to be made in accordance with ‘the unsound
and inhumane recommendations put forth by the American Law Institute
in their so-called “Model Code." Humanitarians in all states may take
heart and should never give in to the efforts to qualify crueltv by requir—
ing proof of intent or to throw out specific animal protective laws which
are necessary to prevent cruelty through the medium of varnings or to
punish it. when necessary, through convictions.

New York State law is often followed by other states. It does not
require that sadistic intent be proved.

Meetings, Exhibits, Speeches and Programs
A Ill/"I boot/L exhibits were presented at:
Canadian Society for Animal Care, Montreal, October 23—24. 1965

American Animal Hospital Association annual convention, Washing-

ton, D. C. March 14—19, 1965

Animal Kingdom Exhibit, World’s Fair, arranged by Cleveland Amory,
April—October, 1965. 50,000 copies of Y on and Your Dog and 50,000 copi€s
of Kittens and Cats were given to children who visited the exhibit.

 

 




 

 

AWI President spa/cc at the following WWH’IUZQ‘SE
Canadian Society for Animal Care, “The Importance of the Animal
Technlc1an.”

New York State Humane Association, annual meeting, Poughkeepsie,
N. Y., October 31, 1964 (AWI President elected president of the Associa—
tion)

Western Reserve Kennel Club, Cleveland, Ohio, November 3, 1964

St. Louis Branch, .5-\nimal Care Panel, St. Louis, Mo, November 18, 1964
(panel discussion at Washington University Medical School)

Animal \Velfare Institute, annual meeting, New York City, November 21,

1.964

VVKCR Columbia University interview, February 1., 1965
\Vomen's City Club, Washington, D. C., February 28, 1965
Animal Rescue League, annual meeting, Washington, D. C.

Agricultural and Technical College, Delhi, N.Y. (to class in. Animal
Science Technology) May 14, 1965

ADV] 'IIIC’HZZM’I‘S too/c part in:
A\V I Benefit, French Embassy, \Vashington, D. C. October 24, 1964

Animal Care Panel, annual meeting, New York City, September 21-25,

1 964

Michigan Federation of Humane Societies, annual meeting, Lansing,
Michigan.

Curare And Other “Relaxants”

The University of California at Los Angeles issued rules with respect
to procedures required when drugs which paralyze without anesthetizing
are used. The University requires that “all personnel working with curariz-
6d preparation shall sign a copy of this notice indicating that they have
read and understand its contents.” The requirements of the American
Physiological Society are as follows: “In describing surgical procedures
on animals, the type and dosage of the anesthetic agent should be spe-
cified. Curarizing agents are not anesthetics: if these are used, evidence
must be provided that anesthesia of a suitable grade and duration was
empIOyed.” This is an area of most serious concern in the prevention of
extreme pain in laboratory animals.

Information Reports

In addition to the material covered in this annual report, articles
which appeared in the Information Report during the year include: “The
Seals of the Pack Ice,” by Dr. Harry Lillie; “The Animal in Greece,” by
Dr. Anthony Carding; a reprint of sections of a long article on animal
welfare in India by Dr. H. E. Bywater; Unwarranted Pain Infliction at
National Science Fair,” by Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, AWI Advisor; a let-
ter to The Lancet, by Major C. W. Hume, Founder of the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare; a reprint from Science of “Long-Term

 




 

Isolation Stress in Rats,” by Anita ItIatch, Tibor Balazs, G. S. \\7iherg,
and H. C. Grice, which demonstrates that the isolation of animals is a
most serious error in animal husbandry. These articles by highly qualified
authors have helped to spread accurate information both on existing misn
treatment of animals and on effective ways of preventing it. Back issues of
Infcn‘mation Reports are available frmn the AW I on request.

 

C(mtributions to the zilnimul I’ljelfarc I'I'ISl‘l'fllI‘U are deductible in
computing income tax retums, mu] donations, large or Sill/(III, are most
gratefully (u‘t‘efvted for the general fund or for special purposes: The (ter—
tension of the [Institutes muc/z—m’ea’m’ ‘zeor/c depends upon. sue/2 support.

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
A a": #30 11v Co III m it I CC
Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo Dr. F. Earhara Orlans
Officers

Christine Stevens, President Alfred R. (Haney, J11, I'ic‘wPresidvnt
Madeleine Beinelmans, Sucre/(113' Roger L. Stevens, 'I‘rvaszu'cr

 




THIRTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street

New York 3,, New York

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THIRTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street, New York, N. Y. 10003
(July 1, 1963 to June 30, 1964)

Laboratory Animal Consultant Service

A new service was offered this year by the Animal Welfare Institute, made
possible by the generosity of an interested donor. This special project, which
began on January ﬁrst, 1964, includes collecting and distributing valuable infor-
mation on the care and housing of experimental animals, giving advice and assist-
ance to institutions who wish to improve their old facilities or plan to build new
ones, and the preparation of a ﬁlm on care and housing which will be distributed
at cost to laboratories.

Visits have been made to 45 scientiﬁc institutions in the District of Columbia,
Maryland, Michigan, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Louisiana,
Texas, California, Utah, Oregon, Illinois, New York, and Canada. At some of
these visits the attitudes were friendly and cooperative, and we received helpful
ideas and information; at others, the inspections discovered miserable conditions
with animals suffering without any scientiﬁc justiﬁcation. Sometimes we were able
to bring about changes and relief for the research animals that were housed in
cramped quarters and neglected; sometimes we were able to help in planning new
facilities and thereby help the laboratory to avoid mistakes that would be both
costly and troublesome to correct later on.

A start has been made on the ﬁlm which will present good conditions and
proper treatment of experimental animals in research institutions. The proper
handling of animals by caretakers and technicians which will also be demonstrated
in this ﬁlm will provide information and examples which will assist in the training
of these men. It should be an important supplement to the literature now being
provided to laboratories by the A.\X7 .1. on housing and care of animals.

Many copies of our manuals, ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” and
”Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals,” were distributed free of charge
to interested persons, and a limited amount of work was done in inspecting ken-
nels where dogs are boarded following laboratory use and inspecting animal
suppliers.

Our visits strongly conﬁrmed the fact that, although recommended standards
of good laboratory animal care now exist and most institutions are aware of them,
they are at best only suggestions. Until there are ways and means of clearly deﬁning
and legally enforcing humane standards, many institutions will continue to in-
terpret the suggested ones loosely or ignore them altogether.

I

 




 

Animal Protective Bills

In March the eighth bill, H.R. 10158, for the humane treatment of experi-
mental animals was introduced in the US. House of Representatives by Repre-
sentative George M. Rhodes (D., Pa.). This bill is identical to the Ashley bill
(H.R. 5430) and the Clark-Neuberger bill (S. 533). Additional bills in the House
add to the strength of a bill that has already been proposed, just as additional
sponsors of a bill help it in the Senate.

Although hearings were held in the 87th Congress on bills to require humane
treatment of experimental animals, and although bills were again introduced in
the 88th Congress when it convened in 1963, nothing has been done about con-
ducting further hearings and bringing these bills out of Committee. Early this year
we were told that there would be hearings but they failed to materialize. Many
ﬁne editorials in support of the bills have appeared in newspapers all over the
country, including The New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The
Bee of Sacramento, Modesto and Fresno, California, The Philadelphia Inquirer,
The Christian Century, The Miami News, The Mobile Register, The Waco (Texas)
Times Herald, The Vineyard (Mass) Gazette, The Palo Alto (Calif) Times,
The Texarkana (Arkansas) Gazette, The Paducah (Ky) Sun-Democrat, The
Springﬁeld (Mass) Daily News, The St. Augustine (Fla) Record, The Atlantic
City Press, The Fort Wayne (1nd.) News-Sentinel, The Erie (Pa.) Morning News,
The Portland (Maine) Press Herald, The Kennebec Journal, The Pasadena (Calif)
Star-News, The Waterbury (Conn) Republican and others. However, opposition
from organized science is strong. The American Medical Association has developed
what it describes as a "task force” to block the legislation that is needed. Weak,
substitute measures will be pushed by opponents of the Clark-Neuberger, Ashley
and Rhodes bills in order to prevent their passage when the 89th Congress con-
venes in 1965.

No action was taken on H.R. 10026, introduced by Representative Rhodes
to require humane treatment of livestock transported by truck from one state to
another. This long overdue legislation would extend the 28-hour law (which now
protects animals travelling by rail) to help animals being shipped by motor ve-
hicles. Since about 90% of livestock are now transported by truck with crippling,
bruising and death common occurrences, the need for legislation is evident. A
decade ago large trucking interests defeated similar legislation with the result that
at present there are no humane controls on the transportation of most lambs, calves,
cattle and swine, and abuses are continuing without abatement.

Wild Animals and Birds Bill

In July, 1963 the Senate Finance Committee held hearings on H.R. 1839, a
bill which had passed the House without hearings earlier in the year. The bill
would have permitted the duty-free importation of wild birds and animals by com-

2

 

 

 




 

 

 

mercial animal dealers and exhibitors at fairs and roadside zoos where forlorn
and mistreated creatures are on display to amuse and obtain money from an un-
informed public. Testimony against the bill was presented on behalf of the Animal
Welfare Institute and other humane and conservation organizations, and no action
was taken on it for eleven months.*

Proposed Revision of State Criminal Laws

The Temporary State Commission on Revision of the Penal Law and Criminal
Code of New York has published their suggested revision of the New York Laws.
Section 250.35, Cruelty to Animals, is less than a page in length and half of it is
devoted to exempting laboratories from the prohibition against cruel mistreatment.
The proposed revision would reduce the present laws to a mere token law. New
York humane groups and individuals are strongly opposed to the proposed dele-
tions and weakening of the anti-cruelty laws. It is diﬂicult to help animals as it is,
but with the present laws curtailed, it would be almost impossible to prosecute
anyone for cruelty. A similar battle has been fought and won in Minnesota, where
although revised laws were adopted, the cruelty to animals sections of the law were
left intact.

Schweitzer Medal and Annual Meeting

At the annual meeting of the A.W.I., December 16th, Ambassador Richard
C. Patterson, Jr., Commissioner of Public Events of the City of New York, pre-
sented the Schweitzer Medal to Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, for her
effective endeavors in helping to free the test beagles of the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration from the windowless sub-basement where some of them had been
caged for seven years. Ambassador Patterson made a second unexpected presenta-
tion of a Certificate of Appreciation from Mayor Robert F. Wagner.

Mr. Leo Miller, Deputy Commissioner of the United States Food and Drug
Administration, in his speech to the A.W.I. members, emphasized the gains which
will be achieved in forthcoming tests in the new quarters, pointing out that test
dogs are indeed valuable animals and that humane housing and care of them not
only decreases waste, but increases scientiﬁc accuracy.

At this meeting, the President of the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion, Mrs. Ludwig Bemelmans, urged continued efforts to bring about enactment of

*The bill ﬁnally came to the floor of the Senate in July, 1964 with a major bill on meat
imports attached to it as a “rider”. As a result of widespread public protest, the section
referring to wild animals and birds was deleted. Senator Kenneth B. Keating (R.. N.Y.)
offered the humane amendment, and Senator Jacob K. Javits (R, N.Y.) and. Senator
Joseph S. Clark (D., Pa.) joined him as cot—sponsors. The Senate was unanimous in
voting deletion of the wild animal and bird provision. However, in a Senate-House con—
ference to which the bill was next referred, a minor compromise was made which allows
a dealer to import an animal for sale to a municipal 200 without a spec1ﬁc order from
that zoo. This will give the US. Customs additional work eheekmg the ult1mate des-
tination of animals, but if strictly enforced should not be seriously detrimental.

3

 

 

 




 

S. 533, the Clark-Neuberger bill and HR. 5430, the Ashley bill, for the humane
treatment of experimental animals. She emphasized the need for increased public
demand to obtain favorable action especially in the face of vehement opposition.

Publications

The A.W.I. continued to distribute thousands of copies of its manuals which
are free to teachers, librarians and other educators, on request, one copy to a
teacher. During the year we distributed 4,714 copies of ”Humane Biology Projects”,
a 44-page illustrated manual prepared for high school use, and 3,819 copies of
”First Aid and Care of Small Animals.” A concise and convenient 48-page booklet,
illustrated with 23 photographs, it was written for the Institute by Ernest P. Walker,
former Assistant Director of the National Zoological Park in Washington, D.C.,
and is a source of information on the care of many small animals with which we
are familiar but about whose care most people know little.

In addition, 60,000 copies of “Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by
High School Biology Students” were distributed by the National Science Teachers
Association, and hundreds of small booklets and leaﬂets sent to children who re-
quested help in caring for their pets.

Meetings and Conferences

A.W.I. representatives attended the following:

Conference on Veterinary Toxicology, New York Academy of Sciences,
New York City, July 26, 1963

American Veterinary Medical Association, annual meeting, New York
City, July 29-31, 1963

Animal Care Panel, annual meeting, Los Angeles, Calif., Oct. 1-4, 1963

New York State Humane Association, annual meeting, Port Jervis, N. Y.,
October 24-25, 1963. The President of A.W.I. spoke on humane treat-
ment of laboratory animals

National Capitol Area Branch, Animal Care Panel, Washington, D.C.,
November 13, 1963, President of the A.W.I. spoke on ”The Principles

of Human Experimental Technique”. (see INFORMATION REPORT,
Vol. 12, No. 5)

Animal Welfare Institute meeting, New York City, December 16, 1963

Florida Federation of Humane Societies annual meeting, March 20, 1964.
The President of A.W.I. spoke on humane legislation for experimental
animals.

Rac

the <
came
liver
“Th
its 1
com
was

it be

of h
its l
to o
resu
of a

Anii

OHS

has

rece
and
Nat
have
colo

Dr.
the
are

Mrs
Pesc
Teci

Stu




Rachel Carson

On April 14th, 1964, Rachel Carson died. A life that had been devoted to
the observation of nature and pursuit of knowledge which she wished all to share,
came to an end. Our loss is great, but the world has been enhanced because she
lived. The books she wrote, ”The Edge of the Sea,” ”Under the Sea Wind,” and
”The Sea Around Us,” brought to many readers a richer experience of the sea and
its mysteries, and ”Silent Spring” to which she devoted four of her last years,
compellingly called attention to the fact that the indiscriminate use of pesticides
was endangering life of all kinds. Although her warnings were disparaged by many,
it became evident before she died that her warnings had been timely and true.

Rachel Carson was quiet and modest, intelligent and well-informed. Because
of her great love of nature she wrote poetically, ecaue of her longing to preserve
its beauty she wrote sincerely, and because of her determination to do something
to correct the appalling mistakes that are being made, she wrote forcefully. The
result was one of the most memorable books of our time and will long remind us
of a great service to mankind by a gentle and courageous woman.

For many years Miss Carson was a member of the Advisory Committee of the
Animal Welfare Institute, and we will always be grateful for her wise and gener-
ous counselling.

New Advisor and Staff Appointments

, We are happy to announce that Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, B.Sc., M.Sc., PhD.
has joined the Advisory Committee of the Animal Welfare Institute. Dr. Orlans
received her degrees from Birmingham University and the University of London
and has spent four years in research at the Laboratory of Chemical Pharmacology,
National Heart Institute, National Institutes of Health. A number of her papers
have been published in American and British journals of physiology, pharma-
cology and experimental therapeutics.

Working under the British Act of 1876 and in the United States has given
Dr. Orlans a wide range of experience and understanding of how legislation affects
the welfare of experimental animals and the attitude of labratory personnel. We
are most fortunate in having the beneﬁt of Dr. Orlans’ good judgment and advice.

New staff appoints include Mr. Thomas Kind, Laboratory Animal Consultant,
Mrs. Robert Dyce, Assistant to the Laboratory Animal Consultant, Miss Alexandra
Peschka, Executive Secretary, replacing Miss Estella Draper, and Mrs. Paul Lewis,
Technical Secretary.

Student Cruelty Prevented

In January, the New York State Senate was asked to consider a bill to exempt

5

 




 

biology classes from the anti-cruelty laws. Its passage would have meant that high
school and even grade school students could perform painful experiments on living
animals.

Upon being notiﬁed that such legislaton was imminent, the public, deeply
shocked, ﬂooded the legislators with vehement protests. The sponsor, Senator
George Metcalf withdrew the bill, stating that the Department of Education, at
whose request he had introduced it, had given him ”misleading information.”

At the request of Raymond Naramore, President of the New York State Hu-
mane Association, Senator Thomas Laverne and Assemblyman William Rosenberg
introduced bills speciﬁcally to prohibit high schools or grade schools from using
live, vertebrate animals in any experiment that would adversely affect the animals’
health and comfort. Unfortunately, the measure, which was introduced shortly be-
fore the New York legislative bodies adjourned, was not reported out of committee.

In the State of Washington, humane rules governed the Science Fair held in
Spokane in April. Starvation experiments were not permitted, nor was any verte-
brate animal allowed to be used in a project which interfered with its normal health
or caused it pain or distress. This was in line with the bulletin issued in December
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the state, in which he said, ”Many
sensitive youngsters can very readily form lasting impressions and prejudices which
are not at all desirable if their science classes include callous treatment or neglect
of living things. . . A general philosophy of thoughtfulness and consideration for
living things should be incorporated and repeatedly emphasized in all science teach-
ing.” It is hoped that this enlightened point of view will spread to Boards of
Education in other states.

Conservation and Wildlife

The most important conservation measure to pass this year was the Wilder-
ness Bill.

A major conservation discovery with important humane implications is a
chemical that separates oil from salt water. Its use was begun this year by three
of the biggest oil companies. Formerly, ballast water was pumped overboard before
taking on a new cargo. Now it is treated with a demulsiﬁer, and the oily residue
which has caused the death by starvation of thousands of sea birds when dumped
into the sea, is retained on board.

British legislation has again led the way with passage of the Deer Act which
outlaws the use of bow and arrow, a method of deer hunting which causes vast
amounts of needless suffering. The new law also prohibits night shooting and

shooting from vehicles.

In the ﬁeld of water pollution, the US. Department of Health, Education
and Welfare identiﬁed Endrin and Dieldrin as the chemicals responsible for the

6

 

 

 




 

 

 

killing of millions of ﬁsh in the lower Mississippi drainage basin. Though the indi-
vidual citizen is powerless to prevent agricultural use of these dangerous, pesticides
at the present time, he can contribute to the general effort by refusing to buy de-
tergents which contain alkyl benzene sulfonate (ABS) the most toxic and long-
lasting component of about 85% of all detergents. There is no known way to
remove ABS from water once it has entered a stream.

Predator control was the subject of an editorial in the New York Timer, April
eighth. It pointed to the dangers of aerial broadcasting of grain treated with So-
dium flu-oroacetate and made it clear that the present army of government predator
hunters and the funds approrpriated to maintain them are doing great harm.

Information Reports

The INFORMATEON REPORTS are now sent to about 13,000 readers. F0110w-
ing are notes on additional subjects reported in them:

Humane Posters by Young African Artists (Vol. 12, No. 4). The
100 best entries among over 800 submitted in a poster contest held by the Humane
Education Institute of Africa, were shown at the Hudson Branch of the New York
Public Library and will be available for display by other interested organizations.
Ten African countries are represented. For information, please address the A.\W.I.

Dissemination of Knowledge of Anesthesia (Vol. 12, No. 4). On
May 22nd a Committee for the Preparation of a Guide on Laboratory Animal
Anesthesia met in Washington to plan a technical guide on anesthesia and pain-
avoidance. In Britain a symposium on the same subject was held. in July.*

The American Physiological Society has revised its ”Guiding Principles on the
Care and Use of Animals” to include the statement that "Curarizing agents are
not anesthetics.” The use of curare and similar “relaxants” which paralyze but
do not cause the animal to lose consciousness, can inflict terrible pain on animals
subjected to surgery, and we heartily approve the issuance of this statement by the
Physiological Society. Curare-like drugs are being more widely used today than
ever before, and their use should be strictly controlled.

Repeated experiments on a single animal were outlawed by the Con-
necticut State Health Commissioner under the “Dog Law.” (Vol. 12, No. 4).

Mass shipments of monkeys for vaccine manufacture may end as the
result of studies of cell cultures. An article on the subject was written for A.W.I.
by Dr. Leonard Hayﬂick. (Vol. 13, No. 2).

*Now published in book form by the Pergamon Press, under the auspices of the Univer—
sities Federation for Animal Welfare and the Brltish .Small Animalsj/fterinary Asso-
ciation: “Proceedings of the Symposium on Small Animal Anaesthesm.

7

 




 

U.S. Vivisection Battle: a British Denial was the subject of an article
in The New Scientirt correcting misstatements by the National Society for Medical
Research about the British Act of 1876 and the present Royal Commission. (Vol.
13, No. 3). Additional information on the British Act appears in INFORMATION
REPORT, Vol. 13, No. 1.

Humane Slaughter. France has now joined the list of nations requiring
humane slaughter. A decree issued this April provides that livestock must be
rendered unconscious prior to shackling, hoisting and bleeding. An exemption
from prior stunning is made for ritual slaughter with the condition that, within
one year, means are provided to avoid bruising the animal before it is slaughtered.
A television appeal by Brigitte Bardot resulted in tens of thousands of letters call-
ing for an end to needless cruelty, and the April decree marks the successful result
of that demand. (Vol. 13, No. 3).

Animal Machines. A shocking report on ”factory farming” in England
was written by Ruth Harrison. Published under the title of ”Animal Machines”, it
describes methods of producing chickens, hogs, and calves by modern intensive
methods which are brutal and callous. In a preface to the book, Rachel Carson has
written, ”I ﬁnd it inconceivable that healthy animals can be produced under the
artiﬁcial and damaging conditions that prevail in these modern factorylike instal-
lations, where animals are grown and turned out like so many inanimate objects.”
Production of eggs and broilers by the “battery system" originated in and is ex-
tensively used in Our country. (Vol. 13, No. 2).

A symposium on laboratory animals was held in Bern, Switzerland,
May 4, 1963 under the direction of Dr. W. H. Weihe. Over 100 scientists of
different disciplines and nationality attended seven main lectures. The A.W.I. ap-
preciates Dr. Weihe’s comment: “In North America the Animal Welfare Institute
of New York endeavors to provide enlightenment about experimental animals.”
(V01. 12, No. 5).

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo Dr. F. Barbara Orlans

Officers
Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 




Ann Cottrell Free. Schweitzer Medallist for I963,
with one of the test beagles of the Food and Drug
Administration

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

 




 

 




 

 

 

TWELFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street, New York, New York 10003
(July 1, 1962 to June 30, 1963)

The year 1962 marked the first time that hearings on federal legislation to
require humane treatment of experimental animals have been held in our country.
Congressman Kenneth Roberts, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health and
Safety of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee of the United States
House of Representatives, conducted hearings on September 28th and 29th.

First to testify for HR. 1957 was Senator Maurine Neuberger, co-sponsor
of the companion bill in the Senate. Dr. Paul Kiernan of the Washington Clinic
gave his views and those of two other humane surgeons strongly supporting the
Senator’s stand. 'Witnesses presenting excellent background material on the
British. Act, on whose- principles HR. 1937 is based, were Dr. Leon Bernstein
of the Veterans Administration Hospital in San Francisco, Professor A. N. Wor-
den, Director of the Huntingdon Research Center in Huntingdon, England, and
Major C. W. Hume, Secretary-General of the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare, London, who brought letters from leading British scientists including:
Sir Arthur Porritt, President of the Royal College of Surgeons; Sir Russell Brock,
internationally known heart surgeon; Professor P. B. Medawar, Nobel Prize
Winner and Director of the National Institute for Medical Research; Professor
C. A. Keele, professor of pharmacology and therapeutics and an authority on pain;
and Sir Graham Wilson, Director of the Public Health Laboratory Service. All
wrore in favor of the legislation for humane treatment of experimental animals
which has been in effecr in Britain for 87 years.

Statements in favor of HR. 1937 were sent to the Subcommittee by Senator
Joseph S. Clark, Congresswoman Martha Griffiths, Miss Rachel Carson, Dr. Jo-
seph Wood Krutch, Rev. Eugene D. D‘olloff, Dr. Frank E. Adair, Dr. Charles
HouSton, Dr. Marjorie Anchel, Dr. Charles Breed, Dr. Eleanor Crissey, Dr. Ben—
nett Derby, Dr. Dorothy Hammond, Dr. Ralph Gwatkin and many Others. Nu-
merous church groups and humane societies submitted resolutions in support of
HR. 1937. Strong opposition to both pending bills Was expressed by the Na-
tional Anti-Vivisection Society, the American Medical Association, the National

Society for Medical Research and individuals and groups allied with these organ-
izations.

 




 

 

 

Shortly after the hearings were held, Congress adjourned, but all over the
country reaCtions were being voiced in editorials. The New York Times said,
“Bills introduced in the Senate and House during the past session were patterned
on legislation enacted in England 86 years ago. The British example which has
not hampered fruitful medical research, should be followed here.” Excellent
editorials were published, too, in the Washington (D.C.) Post, The New York
Daily News, The Oregonian, The Vineyard Gazette, The Trenton (NJ) Times,
The Sacramento (Calif) Bee, The Christian Century, The Chrisrian Science
Monitor, The Springfield. (Mass) Daily News, and many others. Articles by
Betty Beale in the Washington Star, by Virginia Sheward in Newsday, and by
Ann Cottrell Free in a number of papers served by the North American News-
paper Alliance were outstanding.

Soon after Congress reconvened in January, 1963, the Clark—Neuberger bill,
S. 533, modified to meet reasonable objections put forth at the hearings, was
introduced in the U. S. Senate by Senator Joseph S. Clark and Senator Maurine
Neuberger. On February 7th, Senator Stephen M. Young became a co-sponsor.
The bill. was referred to the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare.
On March. 7th, Congressman Thomas L. Ashley introduced in the U0 S. House
of Representatives a bill identical with the Clark-Neuberger-Griffiths bill of 1962.
Later he altered it to make it a companion bill to S. 533; its number is HR. 3430.
Congressman. Ashley was moved to sponsor his. bill after he had read front-page
reports about conditions at Zoologicals Worldwide, a supplier of animals to
laboratories including the National Institutes of Health, the nation’s largesr
group of laboratories from which hundreds of millions of dollars” worth of grants
were issued last year for biological experiments.

In June, Senator E. L. Bartlett made a nOtable speech to the Senate Stating:
"We must recognize that scientists need experimental animals. Scientists in turn

must recognize that unnecessarily cruel and inhumane treatment of these animals
will not be tolerated.”

Cleveland Amory, the well-known author, columnisr and leCturer made a
series of powerful pleas for humane treatment of experimental animals during
the summer. His articles in the Saturday Review of Literature and the Saturday
Evening Post and his appearances on the Today Show, the Barry Gray Show and

other-television and radio programs attracted nationwide attention to the plight
of experimental animals. » i

, ‘Dr. Albert Schweitzer wrote to SenatOr Maurine Neuberger stating: ”As

you. feel it right for me to give my support to the law for compassion toward

5'

 

 

 




 

 

laboratory animals, I do so gladly. The ethic of Reverence for Life obliges us to
be watchful always to treat animals with compassion, and all the more so when
it concerns those creatures that serve medical. research. If you pass such a law
in the United States, it will have important meaning for the world. The law will
then gain recognition in other nations, too.

” ‘In the beginning was the deed’ is an old saying. I am happy that you and
the Animal Welfare Insritute are taking the initiative with S. 535.

”Faithfully yourS, Albert SChWEitzer‘”

Other bills on the subject introduced during that part of the Eighthy-eighth
Congress covered by this report are as follows: S. 1041, introduced March 7th
by Senator Jennings Randolph, HR. 4840 introduced by Congressman John
Fogarty and HR. 4843 introduced by Congressman Kenneth Roberts, both on
March 13th. These- three bills lack the basic principles needed for effective legis-
lation. HR. 4856 introduced March 13th by Congressman William J. Randall,
a slightly modiﬁed version of last year’s HR. 3556, is the mOSt exacting. It con-
tains the necessary basic principles, but makes additional demands that militate
strongly againSt its enactment.

At its annual meeting in November, 1962, the New York State Humane
Association unanimously passed a resolution urging the United States to enact
legislation. embodying the following basic principles: 1) Licensing of individual
scientists, 2) Unannounced inspection of laboratories by well-qualiﬁed inspectors,
3) Pain Rule which would limit the amount of suffering inﬂicted on animals,
4) Minimum standards of care and housing, 5) Keeping of records adequate to
allow inspectors to carry out the law, 6) Student work muSt be painless, 7) Scope
of the Acr would apply to all vertebrate animals, and 8) Enforcement through the
licensing provisions.

Dr. Gerry B. Schnelle, Chief of Staff of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,
spoke out in support of legislation to proteCt experimental animals: in a letter ﬁrst
published in the Jonrnal of r/Je American Veterinary Medical Arrocialion and sub-
sequently reprinted in Oar Dnrnb Anirnalr, T/Je Congressional Record, Popular
Dogr, and the AWI Information Report. Dr Schnelle cited a case with which he
had personal experience in which dogs were "subjected to heart surgery, and when
recovered from anesthesia just put out of doors in a Massachusetts winter, with
a few boards tacked on trees. as shelter and with garbage or a few dead chickens
their only food unless. they ate each Other (they did!). These dogs were seized by
Massachusetts State Police and brought to this hospital (Angell Memorial Animal

3

 




 

 

Hospital) for care. The pleurisy and endocarditis present in two of them exceeded
anything I have ever seen in spontaneous disease.” In reprinting Dr. Schnelle’s
letter, the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals expressed
its support for S. 533.

Rachel Carson Awarded Schweitzer Medal

At the annual meeting of the AWI, January 7th, Dr. Robert Cushman Murphy
presented the Schweitzer Medal to Miss Rachel Carson for her great contribution,
as author of ”Silent Spring”, to the protection of animals from needless suffering
and death resulting from excessive use of insecticides. Under vehement attack by
the chemical industry, Miss Carson’s facts remained uncontested, and her calm,
dignified and reasonable replies to her critics on the nationwide television. broad-
casr "CBS Reports” were impressive.

On May 15th, President Kennedy’s Science Advisory Committee made a
report that, to quote the New York Times, ”stirred agencies to action even before
its ofﬁcial release.” In this report “the scientists (of the Committee) called for
changes in laws and regulatory practices to guard against the hazards involved in
widespread use of the chemicals.” The Committee called for more research into
potential health hazards and, in the interim, for more judicious use of the sub-
stances in homes and the ﬁeld. According to the Times, the “scientists all but told
the Department of Agriculture to stop its controversial mass sprayings to eradicate
gypsy moths, ﬁre ants and two types of beetles.” Nevertheless, continued concerted
effort will have to be made in this direction, for mass sprayings have continued
in many localities.

Laboratory Visits

During the summer of 1962, a young British physiologiSt, Miss Jenny Remfry,
worked with the AWI and devoted a considerable amount of time to visiting
laboratories in the East and South. Similar visits continued to be conducted by
other AWI representatives. Advice on needed improvements was given and
instrucrional manuals provided on care and housing of experimental animals.

Humane Slaughter

Humane slaughter bills were introduced during the year in 15 State legis-
latures, but, except in Oklahoma, the legislation failed. In New York it never came
out of committee. '




The holding pen developed by the Cross Brorhers Meat Packers of Philadel-
phia permits restraint of steers without the cruel hoisting and shackling of con-
scious animals which now takes. place prior to kosher slaughter. This pen has
received the approval of Rabbinical authorities, who have issued a statement to
the effect that it was ”overwhelmingly endorsed by the Collegium of Rabbis
responsible for Kashruth in the kosher slaughterhouses of Philadelphia” and that
”from the technical point of view as well as the traditional, this mechanical device
was proven to facilitate the work of the ‘Schochtim’ (Ritual Slaughterers) as well
as insuring the proper handling of the animals.” Use of this pen would overcome
the major obstacle to enactment of humane slaughter legislation in New York
and New Jersey where the majority of animals are kosher killed, and thus do not
come under the provisions of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

California, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Washington, Wis-
consin, Kansas, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Florida, Oregon, Michigan, Maryland,
Maine and Oklahoma have passed state humane slaughter legislation.

Free Publications for School Teachers

During the year over 4,000 copies of ”Humane Biology Projects” and approxi-
mately 5,000 copies of "First Aid and Care of Small Animals” were sent to
teachers, librarians and other educators who wrote to the Institute to requeSt a
free copy. These manuals prepared by the AWI for teachers are profuse-1y illus-
trated and contain 41 and 46 pages respectively.

At the annual convention of the National Science Teachers Association in
Philadelphia, 1,000 leaﬂets describing “Humane Biology Projects” were distributed.
The manual, which went into its fourth printing this year, was used by summer
science teaching institutes in different parts of the country. We are grateful to the
American Biology Teacher, School Management, Pet Digest, Free and Inexpen-
sive Learning Materials and School and Science and Mathematics for listing the
manual. We are grateful to the following publications for listing "First Aid and
Care of Small Animals”: Elementary Teachers Guide to Free Curriculum Ma-
terials, Free and Inexpensive Learning Materials, Wisconsin School Library List
for 1962-63, Product Information for Schools and Grade Teacher, October 1962.
At the Elementary School Science Association’s Spring conference, March, 1963,
500 copies were distributed.

Several publications, including A Wonderful World for Children, Free and
Inexpensive Educational Aids, Educators Guide to Free Teaching Aids, and Ele-
mentary Guide to Free Curriculum Materials, have drawn the attention of
elementary school teachers to the UFAW leaﬂet, written and. illustrated by the
inimitable Fougasse, ”Good Kind Lion”. Over 4,000 copies have been sent out

5

 




 

 

on request during the year. Approximately 1,500 reprints of "Befriending Animals”,
published in Childhood Education, were distributed to teachers during the year,
and a variety of other informational literature made available as requested.

Laboratory Manuals

During the year, more than 900 copies of the 68-page, illustrated manual,
”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” were sent on request to laboratories. In
addition, 515 requests were received and ﬁlled for the loose—leaf manual of ﬂoor
plans and photographs, "Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals” and 224
copies of the last supplement were provided to laboratories that already had the
earlier supplements. Through this means, laboratories planning new quarters are
enabled to receive without cost an assemblage of the besr in animal quarters
design, a service provided by no other organization or agency. During this period
of rapid expansion of the use of experimental animals, “Comfortable Quarters” is
a continuing projecr of very great importance.

The ﬁlm ”Handling Laboratory Animals” continues to be made available by
the A'Wl at cosr to laboratories, as are "The UFAW Handbook on the Care and
Management of Laboratory Animals” and Dr. Phyllis Croft’s ”An Introduction to
the Anaesthesia of Laboratory Animals."

Meetings and Conferences

Representatives of the AWI took part in the following:

Animal Care Panel, annual meeting, Chicago, October 2-5, 1962

New York State Humane Association, Albany, N.Y., November 16, 1962

Women’s National Press Club Luncheon honoring Rachel Carson,
December 5, 1962

New York Branch, Animal Care Panel, December 7, 1962

Animal Welfare Institute, annual meeting, New York City, january ,7, 1963

Kiwanis Club of New Britain, Connecticut, January 9, 1963

Ontario Humane, annual meeting, London, Ontario, April 5, 1963

A.S.P.C.A. annual meeting, New York City, May 2, 1965

Conference with Connecticut State Health Department and Pet Animal Welfare
Society representatives, Hartford, Connecticut, May 17, 1965

Man and Beast

"Man and Beast” by Major Charles W. Hume was published this year by the
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare. A collection of the Secretary-General

of UFAW’s most impressive articles, the following gives an example of his
thOught:

 

 




 

 

”ETHICS: Suffering arising out of technical requirements.

”When an experiment cannot be carried out without the inﬂiction of surfer-
ing, in what cases can the end justify the means? To answer this question, con-
siderations which. are quantitative and yet cannot be measured have to be balanced
against one another. That is a difﬁcult task, and gives rise to differences of opinion
between humane and reasonable persons, but it is what any jury has to do when
there is a conﬂict of evidence. The difficulty of the task is a reason for devoting
care and thought to it, but not for shirking it or taking refuge in extreme views
of short cuts.

”Experiments calculated to cause pain are permitted in Britain (subject,
however, to the Pain Rule) for the advancement of either 1) "physiological” i.e.,
biological knowledge, or knowledge useful for 2) saving or prolonging life or
5) alleviating suffering. . . .

”When knowledge that will prevent a large amount of suffering can be
obtained by inﬂicting a relatively small amount, then many will hold that the end
may justify the means, though again it is a question of degree. It must be remem-
bered, howEver, that the value of a research is always problematical till the work
has been done. At the very least the objective must be clear and fully adequate,
the probability of success high. Every precaution, including economy in sampling,
must be taken to reduce suffering to a minimum, and there .must certainly be an
upper limit to what may be, done. In no case would it be justiﬁable to suspend
the Pain Rule, for instance. The second Royal Commission, ﬁve out of whose,
seven members were medical, laid down that rule absolutely and without
qualiﬁcation.”

Information Reports

Following are nOtes on some additional subjects covered in the Information
Reports, issued ﬁve times a year to about 13,000 readers.

NBC Breaks TeIevision Code with Showing of Spanish BuIIfight
(Vol. 12, No. I). A bullﬁght ﬁlmed in Spain, complete with planting of bandil—
l'eras, knocking down of horses and killing of 'a bull after infuriating him with
pain was shown at a prime children’s viewing hour on a Saturday afternoon,
despite the TV Code requirements: “the detailed presentation. of brutality or
physical agony by sight or by sound are n0t permissible . . . The use of animals
both in the producrion of television programs and as a part of television program

7

 




 

content shall at all times be in conformity with accepted standards of humane
treatment.”

An Education in Cruelty (Vol. 12, No. 1) described some of the
experiments by high school students entered in the National Science Fair Inter-
national wihich was held at the World’s Fair Display Hall in Seattle in 1962.
AW]. statistical analysis of the ofﬁcial catalogue of this Fair disclosed that 14.5%
of the total number of projects in the Fair involved the use of live vertebrate
animals. Of the total number of projects using these animals, 21.4% did nor seem
likely to interfere with the normal health and comfort of the animals; 41.1 %
interfered with the normal health and comfort of the animals: and 37.572: involved
procedures likely to cause severe pain or distress. These projects are conducted
by teenagers whose skills are necessarily limited and who have no right to inﬂict
pain on animals in the name of science. The demoralizing influence on adolescents,
encouraged to get money and prestige by performing acts of cruelty, is serious.
Science Service, sponsor of these improper activities, is seeking a Congressional
Charter under a bill, HR. 824. It should not be granted.

It tends to die-humanize you (Vol. 12, No. 1). In sharp contrast to the
attitude which permits cruel experiments by high school students is that shown
by an Associate Professor of Surgery, Dr. Nicholas Gimbel, who wrote to a high
school girl: "In choosing a physician, the patient has a right to look for someone
who is not only scientiﬁcally well informed and technically competent but also
who has high ethical and moral standards. Many of us think of mammalian
animals if nor as brothers at least as cousins! we feel that animal experimentation
should always be done when the problem under consideration is unsolved and the
results of the study may possibly add important information . . . To me it seems
wrong for a young student without proper training to undertake mammalian
studies, the results of which have already been establish-ed in the literature. The
study can be jusr as interesting and the science fair just as informative and the
project have jusr as good a chance of winning the blue ribbon if it is made with
plants or paramecia. One of the real disadvantages of carrying out a study under
the conditions you would most likely work is that it tends to dehumanize you.”

Eternal hostility (Vol. 12, No. 2). The National Society for Medical
Research continued its opposition to S. 533 and HR. 5430 for the humane treat
ment of laboratory animals. They characterized supporters of the bills as “com
ﬁdence men”, ”swindlers”, and followers of Machiavelli.

Wilderness bill (Vol. 12, No. 3). S. 4, the Wilderness Bill, passed the
US. Senate by a large majority in approximately the same form as it was approved

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

by the Senate last year. Opposition of leaders of lumbering and mining interests
has been strong. No action has been taken by the Interior and Insular Affairs
Committee of the House of Representatives.

Humane trapping bill (Vol. 12, No. 1). Congressman William Broom-
ﬁeld reintroduced his bill to require humane methods of trapping animals and
birds on lands and waterways under the jurisdiction of the United States. The bill
calls for imposing a ﬁne of nor more than $500 or six months’ imprisonment, or
borh, for anyone who places or causes to be placed. upon land or waters owned by
the United States, any trap, snare, net or other device designed to trap or capture
any animal or bird in any manner by which the animal or bird is not either cap-
tured painlessly or killed instantly, or who fails. to inspeCt and empty his. trap,
snare, or net at least once every 24 hours. No action has been taken on the bill.

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for
the general fund or for special purposes. T/re extension of tire Institute’s muck-needed

were depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Rachel L. Carson Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo

Ofﬁcers
Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Estella Draper, Executive Secretary

 




 




 
    
    
    
 

Eleventh Annual Report

 

Sponsors of legislation tor humane treatment ot experimental
animals. Hon. Martha Grittlths HR. I937). Hon. Joseph Clark
and Hon. Maurine Neuberger S. 3088).

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.




‘I .I. ll)»,

 

 

 




ELEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street, New York 3, New York
(July 1, 1961 to June 30, 1962)

On March 28, 1962, Senator Joseph S. Clark of Pennsylvania introduced in
the US. Senate S. 3088 to provide for the humane treatment of animals used in
experiments and tests by recipients of grants from the United States and by
agencies and instrumentalities of the United States Government. Shortly there-
after, Senator Maurine Neuberger of Oregon joined him as a co-sponsor of the
measure, which is identical with HR. 1937 introduced in the US. House of
Representatives by the Hon. Martha Grifﬁths of Michigan January 6, 1961. Hear-
ings had not been scheduled by the end of the year covered in this report and
opponents are seeking weak and ineﬂ‘ective substitutes.*

Welcome support came from the New England Federation of Humane Societies
which voted at its annual meeting to back the legislation.

A strong editorial in T/oe W'arbington Port of May 9, 1962 urged favorable
action on the legislation, and effective articles on the subject appeared in T/ae Long
Irlana' Siar-[onrnal (by Lee Townsend) July 25, 1961; Concern, a magazine of
General Board of Christian Social Concerns of the Methodist Church, November
15, 1961; Pet Digert, Fall, 1961; The Troy (N.Y.) Timer Record, February 6,
1962; T/ye Vineyard Gazette, February 2, 1962; Toe Clarirtian Science Monitor,
March 9, 1962; The Loniwille (.Ky.) Record, March 16, 1962; Newra’ay, (by
Virginia Sheward), April 23, 1962; T/oe Rocé Irlancl (Ill.) Argz/r, May 19, 1962.

Harper"; magazine, July, 1962, published an article by Faubion Bowers which
told of work done by the Institute’s President in the ﬁght for legal protection of
animals in slaughterhouses and in laboratories.

An article and a series of letters in T/oe New Scientirt made clear the support
of the British scientiﬁc community for the British Act of 1876 which regulates
animal experiments. It is. on the principles of this Act that HR. 1937 and S. 3088
are based.

The original article reported the results of a survey conducted by the Univer—
sities Federation for Animal Welfare and published under the title "Opinions of
British Scientists on Home Ofﬁce Control of Experiments on Animals” by C. W.
Hume. Professor Edward Hindle, F.R.S., President of UFAW, sent three ques-
tions on the Act to biological Fellows of the Royal Society. The response was
overwhelmingly in favor of the legislation, ﬁrst-rate scientists writing to say that

 

3‘ Hearings were held by the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce
Subcommittee on Health and Safety, Hon. Kenneth Roberts, Chairman, on September
28 and 29, 1962. Copies of the printed record of these hearings may be obtained by
writing to the Clerk of the Committee at the House Ofﬁce Building, W'ashington, DC.

1

 

 




 

they would oppose any move to abolish the Act "with everything I have got” or,
in another case, ”I would ﬁght to preserve” it. Among the reasons given are the
following: “I believe that —- far from hindering scientiﬁc investigations —— the
system of licensing and inspection adopted in Britain provides conditions for re-
search that are beyond reproach.” (from a letter of Dr. C. A. Hoare, F.R.S.,‘ of
the Wellcome Laboratories of Tropical Medicine). Sir John Hammond, F.R.S.,
of the Cambridge School of Agriculture, wrote ”It forces us to train our young
research workers efﬁciently.” Prof. David Keilin, F.R.S. of the Molteno Institute,
Cambridge, wrote, ”it compels the worker to plan and to carry out his experiments
with more care. This greatly improves the quality of the research and is of beneﬁt
to the research worker himself.” Prof. F. A. E. Crew, F.R.S., wrote, ”I do not think
that just anybody should be allowed to do just anything with a living creature.”

New Supplement for “Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory Animals”

The fourth supplement for the AWI manual "Comfortable Quarters for La-
boratory Animals,” was prepared this year. The new supplement contains 30- plans
and photographs selected from material obtained through an extensive survey.
Every scientist who had ordered the manual in the past seven years was sent a
letter of inquiry as to whether useful new housing or equipment for animal
colonies had been developed in his institution. Institutions receiving federal grants
for construction of animal quarters were also circularized. An amusing note was
the "Warning” sent out by the National Society for Medical Research suggesting
that scientists had better watch out when they received this dangerous survey letter.
No doubt some timorous biologists failed to respond as a result, but the supplement
is an excellent one, nevertheless, containing the following items: guinea pig quar—
ters and cat breeding quarters at Allington Farm, Salisbury, England; plans of the
animal house at Little Bromwich General Hospital, England; kennel-runways at
Ralston-Purina, St. Louis; kennel-runways at Los Alamos. Scientiﬁc Laboratory;
outdoor kennel for dogs at the University of California at Davis; indoor dog runs
at the Ontario Veterinary College; kennel-runways at the Oteen, N.C. Veterans
Administration Hospital; kennelorunways at the University of Florida at Gaines-
ville; pens for dogs and monkeys at the University of Mississippi Medical Center;
kennel-runways for dOgs and cats at Morris Research Laboratories, Topeka, Kansas;
chimpanzee quarters at Holloman Air Force Base; large colony outdoor quarters
at Oregon Primate Research Center; pens for poultry at the University of Maine;
resting boards and nest boxes at Harvard Medical School and Ralston Purina
kennels; a radiant heating panel for use with large animals needing special
-warmth; a two-compartment whelping cage at the University of California at
Los Angeles; a mobile colony cat cage with four resting boards, various automatic
watering devices; self-operating doors for dogs and cats; portable panel fencing
for outdoor or indoor exercise areas; an exercise wheel for hamsters; and an
identiﬁcation band for various species of animals.

.2

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Either the new supplement or the full 109-page manual will be sent free on
request to institutions planning new animal quarters or remodelling old ones.

Also available free to laboratories is the AWI manual, ”Basic Care of ExPeri-
mental Animals” which was reprinted again this year, bringing the total dis-
tributed free on request to scientists to over 17,000 copies.

Visits to Laboratories

During the course of the year, laboratories in ten states, the District of Co-

lumbia, Canada and England were visited by AWI members and representatives.

Many bad conditions were observed, and a few improvements were obtained.

Major improvement has been made in Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Los
Angeles, noted in last year’s annual report. Twenty-foot-long outside runways are
under construction for the dogs who previously never were removed from the
windowless room in which they are caged. The dogs themselves are much less
pitiful in appearance, the excessive emaciation and painful physical symptoms
previously observed no longer being in evidence. The reasons for this are three-
fold: the dogs’ diet has been made more nutritious and they are now being fed
twice daily. Most important, the experimental designs have been modiﬁed so they
are not so hard on the animals. Credit for these vital humane changes should go
to Pamela Mason who brought the need for them to the attention of the public
through her radio program. The City, County and State Health Departments and
Department of Animal Regulation and the administration of the hospital co-
operated in bringing about the changes once the demand was rt-rangly established.

The new kennels for the test beagles of the Food and Drug Administration
in Washington, DC. have not yet been constructed, so the beagles are still per-
petually caged in the sub-basement where some of these hundreds of little dogs
have already spent seven long years. However, the AWI has been assured that
the long-delayed construction will begin in 1962. Helpful regulations on the care
of the animals and the policy with respect to their use were issued by the Food and
Drug Administration. Particularly important is the rule on euthanasia: "No dog
will be allowed to reach a state wherein he would be too weak to perform his nor-
mal functions, such as standing and eating, or permitted to remain in obvious pain."

Wildlife

One of the most important documents ever published in the struggle to pro-
tect wildlife has been in preparation for the past four years by Rachel Carson, a
member of the AWI Advisory Committee. "Silent Spring" appeared in abbreviated
form in T/ae New Yorker magazine in three June issues. Publication date for
the full book (Houghton, Miinn) is September. It is a Book-of—the-Month Club
selection and is expected to be the subject of a CBS television documentary. '

3

 

 

 




 

 

The signiﬁcance of this book to the chemical industry may be gauged by the
fact that Miss Carson’s photograph appeared on the front page of the Financial
Section of the New York Time; with a long article quoting spokesmen for the
major manufacturers of pesticides. Washington oﬂices are receiving a strong pub-
lic reaction demanding control of these dangerous substances.

* * >14 *

On September 6, 1961 the US. Senate passed the Wilderness bill by a vote
of 78 to 8. Opponents of the bill (mining, lumber and grazing interests) were
using a combination of crippling amendments and delay to kill the bill in the
House of Representatives at the time this report was written.

* * >l< *

Another sad disappointment for friends of wildlife was the failure even to
hold hearings in the Senate on the Marine Mammals Bill which had been passed
by the House of Representatives August 21, 1961. The bill which would have
prevented gunning of polar bears from planes and protected these magnificent
animals and the playful sea otters and walrus outside Alaskan waters failed to get
a hearing because of the objections of Alaskan officials. The Alaska Sportsmen’s
Council supported the bill, stating that the walrus population is declining and
calling attention to the fact that if present hunting is continued there will be no
more walrus in 25 years. Mr. A. W. Boddy, speaking for the Council, pointed
out that a State cannot deal with international problems such as the preservation
of these amphibious animals present and that Federal legislation is essential to
provide reasonable protection for them.

Humane Education

”The World of Animals” by Joseph Wood Krutch, a member of the AWl
Advisory Committee, was published November, 1961 by Simon and Schuster. A
fascinating anthology, it presents the various points of view toward animals which
have been expressed by writers from the Fifth Century BC. to the present day.
Dr. Krutch comments on each, drawing the reader’s attention both to the develop-
ment of humaneness and to the continuation of callousness and cruelty in modern
attitudes. The book is the outstanding contribution to adult humane education
which has been made in recent years in our country, treating the subject with the
seriousness it deserves while providing a diverting variety of lively reading.

An important statement on biology teaching in high schools was issued this
year by Dr. W. W. Armistead, Dean of the Veterinary College of Michigan State
University. Emphasizing the fact that animals should never be used unless com-
fortable quarters and care are provided, Dean Armistead points out that ”living
animals sometimes are mistreated in laboratory exercises. Such practices must be
condemned by all legitimate scientists who respect life and understand research.

4

I

 




There is no justiﬁcation for conducting in the secondary school an experiment
which w0uld cause pain to an animal.” Copies of Dean Armistead’s full statement
are available free on request from the Institute and are being distributed to high
school teachers.

The great demand for the teachers’ manuals published by the AWI necessitated
reprinting of both “Humane Biology Projects” and “First Aid and Care of Small
Animals”. Five thousand copies of the ﬁrst and ten thousand copies of the second
were printed this year, and both will have to be reprinted again in the coming
year in order to keep up with the requests by educators. Contributions to help
pay for this vital service are urgently needed and deeply appreciated.

A survey was carried out during the year on the use of these manuals, and the
results were very encouraging. The response was almost unanimously favorable;
in fact, there was so little criticism of the manuals that the only disappointment
was that suggestions for improvement were so few in number. The most common
request, where requests were made, was to increase the section on animal behavior
in ”Humane Biology Projects.” Accordingly, plans are being made for publication
of a third manual particularly directed to this subject. Major contributor will be
Sally Carrighar whose ”Wild Voice of the North” revealed a genius for observa-
tion of a Husky dog and other animals in Alaska, fulﬁlling the promise shown in
her earlier ”Ice Bound Summer”, ”One Day on Beetle Rock”, ”One Day at Teton
Marsh” and others.

An article on humane education by the President of the Institute was published
in the May issue of Child/200d Education, journal of the Association for Child-
hood Education International. Entitled ”Befriending Animals” it gave suggestions
for teachers to use in class and reported briefly on humane education throughout
the world.

Humane Slaughter

tate humane slaughter bills were passed this year in Michigan and Maryland.
Difﬁculties are still experienced in efforts to legislate against the shackling and
hoisting of conscious animals prior to kosher slaughter. Although the pre-slaughter
handling is not a religious matter, opposition to a change to more humane pre-
slaughter handling methods has prevented the enactment of legislation in New
York and New Jersey where the majority of animals (except pigs) are killed
kosher and where, therefore, it is essential that humane slaughter bills deal with
the handling methods. The bills in both Michigan and Maryland. exempted
handling prior to kosher slaughter, but they are not major kosher slaughter states.

Cross Brothers Meat Packers of Philadelphia has developed a holding pen for
steers which permits restraint of these animals for kosher slaughter without shack-
ling and hoisting them. An excellent report on the pen was published in a long
article in The National Provirz'oner, June 16, 1962, and a number of full-page

5

 

 




 

 

advertisements have been run in this journal by the manufacturers, Food Handling
Machinery Corp, 3630 Haverford Avenue, Philadelphia 4, Pa. It is hoped that
humane kosher slaughterers will promptly order and install this pen and put a
stop to the cruel shackling and hoisting of conscious animals.

Schweitzer Medal

This year the Albert Schweitzer Award of the AWI was made to William H. A.
Carr, reporter and columnist of the New York Part, in recognition of his active
services for the protection of animals. Mr. Carr’s fearless and accurate reporting
is outstanding in the ﬁelds of protection for laboratory animals and food animals.
The publishers of the Port are to be congratulated for the high quality of reporting
on these important subjects which Mr. Carr has provided and they have printed.

Major C. W. Hume, the Schweitzer Medallist for 1956, this year was awarded
the Order of the British Empire for services to animal welfare. Major Hume is
Secretarvaeneral of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare with head-
quarters in London, England.

Mrs. Isobel Slater, who with Chief Fundikira was Schweitzer Medallist for
1960, has founded the Humane Education Institute of Africa and is distributing
humane educational literature in English, French and Swahili from. headquarters
in Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika. Chief Fundikira is now Minister of Justice of
Tanganyika and a Patron of H.E.I.A. The Animal Welfare Institute is seeking
to encourage support for H.E.I.A. A magniﬁcent film, “Wildlife in Tanganyika”
was shown at the last AWI annual meeting.

Meetings
Representatives of the AWI attended the following meetings:

General Board of Christian Social Concerns of the Methodist Church, Chicago,
September 8, 1961.

New York State Humane Association annual meeting, Albany, Sept. 22, 1961.
Animal Care Panel annual meeting, Boston, Mass, October 26-29, 1961.
Animal Welfare Institute annual meeting, New York, December 17, 1961.

Humane Education Conference, New Jersey Branch of the Humane Society of
the United States, Newark Teachers’ College, April 5, 1962.

Baltimore County Humane Society annual meeting, Pikesville, Maryland,
May 15, 1962.

The AWI held a theater beneﬁt in cooperation with Friends of Animals on
December 15, 1961.

New Directors

Two additional directors were elected to the board of the AWI this year, Mrs.
Ludwig Bemelmans, President of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
and a member of the board of directors of Friends of Animals, and Mrs. Frank

6

 

 

11 v V- AA

 




 

 

 

Wilson who has written articles on animal protection and been active in work for
humane slaughter legislation.

Information Reports

The AWI Information Reports, issued five times a year to about 12,000 ad-
dresses, seek to keep scientists and humanitarians informed on important develop-
ments in humane work. In addition to the subjects reported on above, some of
the individual articles deserve notice.

A Popularized Account of Intense Pain Inﬂiction (Vol. 10, No. 4)
called attention to some of the things Dr. John Lilly did to dolphins and reported
in a book intended for mass consumption. Science called it ”one of the frankest
and most egotistical accounts of a research project ever placed before a sensation-
loving public.” Dr. Lilly tells how to inﬂict "intense punishment” and “intense
pain” by placing electrodes in the dolphins’ brains and turning on current. How
to put a monkey into a state of panic through the terrible pain which he forgets
how to shut off is also described.

An International Symposium on the Assessment of Pain in Man
and Animals was held at the Middlesex Hospital Medical School, London,
july 26-28, 1961. The President, Sir Russell Brain, F.R.S., editor of Brain and
President of the Royal College of Physicians, emphasized the humanitarian aspect
in his opening address. The conference was organized by the Universities Federa-
tion for Animal Welfare. It was noted in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 10, No. 5.

Immobilization of Unanesthetized Animals, Death by Starvation or
Deficiency, Burning, Stress, and Automation in Experiments which
Cause Pain and Fear were the headings of a long article (Vol. .11, No. 2)
reporting on some current animal experiments and quoting from the journals.
This report, together with notes from laboratory visits (Vol. 11, No. 1) describing
some of the neglect and callousness observed by AWI representatives —— sickness,
ﬁlth, mistreatment of animals, failure even to provide cages big enough for some
dogs to stand up or lie down in normally —— pointed to the urgent need for enact-
ment of the pending bills, 8. 3088 and HR. 1937, to bring an end to laboratory
abuses.

Overcrowding and failure to provide water for animals were discussed
in an article in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 10, No. 5 and numerous instances
given of the suffering so casually inﬂicted in these ways.

The need to stop the ﬂow of diseased animals into laboratories
was discussed in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 11, No. 1 and instances given of
the suﬁ‘ering and waste caused by the constant train of animals with infectious
diseases that dealers and breeders continue to sell to scientiﬁc institutions. As
with the inﬂiction of needless suffering in laboratories, [aimez-faire is the keynote
of those who have the power to change the present system if they would.

The vast growth of federal funds for animal experiments was brieﬂy
noted in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 11, No. 1.

7

 




 

 

Tidal Wave of Overproduction was the title of a report in INFORMATION
REPORT Vol. 11, No. 3 in which leading medical men and biologists told of dupli-
cation and waste in experimentation. The article was largely a quotation from a
statement by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey which appeared in the Congressional
Record March 8, 1962.

Humane Statements by Deans give a little hope for improvement which
is so desperately needed. Dean J. F. McCreary of the Faculty of Medicine, Uni-
versity of British Columbia gave encouragement to the work of the Japan Animal
Welfare Society in a statement published in The British Colombia Medical fourmzl,
January, 1961. Dean Charles G. Wilber of Kent State University issued a memo-
randum making the AWI manual, ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” required
reading for all graduate students working with vertebrate animals. The memo-
randum was published in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 11, N0. 1. In this same
REPORT, the statement earlier referred to by Dean W. W. Armistead of the
College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University, was also published.
It is regrettable that his wise statement against painful experiments in secondary
schools has not been followed by all Science Fair promoters.

Cruel experiments by high school students were discussed in INFOR-
MATION REPORT Vol. 11, No. 3, attention being directed to the use of federal
funds for promoting such experiments through purchase of 25,000 copies of
”Science Projects Handbook” for distribution to teachers and Science Fair ”co-
operators.” The killing of animals with induced cancer and production of mon-
strosities by shocking pregnant animals are two featured projects by high school

girls.

Needless and Costly Suﬂ‘ering in Livestock Transport (Vol. 10,
No. 5) reports on the thoroughly documented studies by Joseph F. Rickenbacker
of the US. Department of Agriculture which show the need to stop deliberate
cruelty and enforce humane standards in the transportation of livestock.

 

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Rachel L. Carson Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo
Christine Stevens, President ° Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary ° Roger L. Stevens, T reas.

Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 




TENTH ANNUAL REPORT ‘

 

Prize-Winning painting from the humane education program
of the Tanganyika Branch of the R.S.P.C.A., Whose President
and Founder received the Albert Schweitzer Award for 1960.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

 




 

TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE ,

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N. Y.
(July 1, 1960 to June 30, 1961)

For the ﬁrst time the Albert Schweitzer Award of the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute was made in Africa, the continent in which Dr. Schweitzer developed his
philospohy of Reverence for Life. Chief A. S. Fundikira, President, and Mrs.
Isobel Slater, Executive Director and founder of the Tanganyika Branch of the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, were joint winners and
medals were presented to both.

The award was made in behalf of the Institute by the Hon. G. Mennen
Williams, newly appointed Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, on
his ﬁrst trip to Africa after assuming Ofﬁce.

The Hon. Adlai E. Stevenson, United States Representative to the United
Nations, spoke on the Schweitzer Award at the annual meeting of the Animal Wel-
fare Institute on May 26th. He praised the work in Tanganyika where some 800
branches comprising over 40,000 members of the Society have been formed and
urged continuing efforts concluding with the following words: ”I think it would
be a wonderful thing for Africans and for the superb wild life of that great con-
tinent if the Society established afﬁliates in other African countries. With its
magniﬁcent record in Tanganyika I would think that all African governments in—
terested in fostering animal welfare and preserving this priceless heritage WOuld be
delighted to see a chapter of the Society established in their territories. Finally,
to Chief Fundikira and Mrs. Isobel Slater, the Society’s founder and co-recipient
of the Schweitzer Medal, I wish every success in their glorious crusade for the
preservation and humane treatment of all living things.”

Protection of Laboratory Animals by Law

On January sixth, the Hon. Martha Grifﬁths (D. Mich.) again introduced
her bill for the humane treatment of laboratory animals used in research institu-
tions receiving Federal grants and in departments and agencies of the Federal
Government. The bill, HR. 1937, was referred to the House Committee on In-
terstate and Foreign Commerce where it is now pending.

. HR. 1957 is based on the principles of the Act of 1876 which regulates
animal experimentation in Britain. This Act was petitioned for by Charles Darwin,
Thomas Huxley and the major British scientiﬁc organizations whose support it
continues to receive. .In the United States, however, the violent opposition of the
National Society for Medical Research has disc0urage'd the broad scientiﬁc support
merited by H.R.1937. Nevertheless, individual scientists of independent mind

2

 

 

ﬁlaﬁdﬂi. _

 




 

 

 

are supporting the legislation. Dr. Bradley T. Scheer, Chairman of the Biology
Department, College of Liberal Arts, University of Oregon, in a letter published
in Scz'erzce, September 23, 1960, pointed out that the attacks upon this bill gave
a false idea of its nature and intent. Stating that the issue of humane treatment
itself is a moral one, Dr. Scheer added, “I cannot ﬁnd in this. bill the evils which
the National Society for Medical Research or Science profess to see, and I would
urge my colleagues who are interested in animal experimentation, humane treat-
ment, or both, to read the bill with care, to make their own appraisals on the
basis of their own judgments, and to communicate these judgments to their repre-
sentatives in the Congress.”

Dr. Leon Bernstein, Assistant Professor, Department of Environmental Med-
icine, School of Hygiene, Johns Hopkins University, wrote on May Slst commend~
ing the Institute on the arguments advanced in favor of HR. 1937. He told of
his 18 years of work under the British Act regulating animal experiments and
concluded, “It is distressing to see what we usually think of as the unprincipled
methods of politicians and demagogues. -— the half-truths, the downright m.is~
representation and misquotation, the things taken out of context, the repetition of
_ traveller’s tales, and the assertion of hypotheses as though they were established
fact—being used by scientific societies to obstruct legislation that would certainly
not be against the interests of their members.” His letter was published by per-
mission in the May-June Information Report.

Dr. Herbert Rackow, defending the bill from attack in the Letters to the
Editor column of the New York Timer, called attention to the support of British
scientists for the British Act and concluded that the ”bill is patterned after that
law and it ought to be supported by our own scientists.”

Unable to give any rational answer to facts about the British Act, opponents
have stooped to denigration of scientific work in Britain and seek especially to
belittle British surgery. Accordingly, Major C. W. Hume, Secretary-General of
the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, sought the opinion of Sir Arthur
Porritt, President of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. His reply, pub
lished in the May-june Report, vigorously refuted these attacks stating, . . very
considerable advances in medical and scientiﬁc knowledge have been made in
this country during the last fifty years. Many of these necessitated experiments on
animals, but I am sure it is true to say that no research requiring animal experi-
mentation has. been abandoned, remained incomplete or not been undertaken be-
cause of existing Home Ofﬁce regulations.” With regard to the training of students
in operative surgery, he gave as the British View that “the best method is by student
apprenticeship to mature surgeons rather than the repetitive performance of
operations on animals.”

A short article from. the distinguished English medical journal T/ae Lcmcet,
of February 25, reprinted in the janluary-February Report, stated in part: ”The
bill is being somewhat ﬁercely assailed on one side by antivisectionists and on the
other by their more extreme opponents. The latter have represented British med-
ical science as of inferior quality through a supposed frustration of medical research

.7)

 

 

 




 

 

by the Home Ofﬁce control. For instance, an assertion which is widely current is
to the effect that the British Act requires a separate document to be ﬁled in respect
of every individual animal used. In View of such allegations, the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare sent a questionary to all biological fellows of the
ROyal Society, and the replies have shown an overwhelming concensus in favour
of Home Ofﬁce control. As one of them says, ‘the Act of 1876 stops the frivolous
but not the responsible worker’. ” A most interesting summary by Major Hume of
UFAW of the responses was published under the title Opinions of British Sci-
entists on Home Office Control of Experiments on Animals” and was circulated
with the January- -February Report. It is available on request from the Institute.

Dr. John R. Baker, Department of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy, Uni-

versity Museum, Oxford, having been quoted in an editorial in Science against
the bill, stated in a letter printed in Science, December 23rd, ”I have studied
this bill and hope that it will be enacted, for it has my full approval. I am. a
licensed vivisector under the laws of my own country.”

‘H.R. 1937 is opposed by the American Medical Association, the Pharma-
ceutical Manufacturers Association and other large scientiﬁc groups. Equally op-
posed to the bill are the National Anti-Vivisection Society and other organizations
devoted to the abolition of animal experimentation. However, support for effective
regulation of animal experiments continues to grow among unbiased citizens who
learn the facts. '

A Special Problem: The F.D.A. Beagles

Major progress was made in the attempt to obtain decent treatment for the
hundreds of beagles used in pharmacological tests by the Food and Drug Admin-
istration in Washington, DC. These beagles, imprisoned in a sub-basement from
two to seven years, in all metal, mesh-bottom cages 30” x 36”, are never removed
from their cages for exercise. Their cruel conﬁnement serves no purpose, and it
should have been ended years ago. It could never have occurred at all had HR.
1937 been law.

In response to public demand, initiated by Ann Free’s news story on the
beagles’ plight, the 86th Congress appropriated funds for architectural plans for
a laboratory~kennel building where the dogs can be housed in comfortable kennel-
runways, providing for the necessary exercise, fresh air and sunlight. The United .
States House of Representatives passed the appropriation bill which contained the
funds for this building in June, and Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of the sub-
committee before which the matter was pending in the Senate, assured the In-
stitute: “I am doing everything in my power to win approval this year of the funds
for construction of the facility with the comfortable housing for the laboratory
animals. I think I can assure you we will get the funds.”*

Expression of the will of Congress on dog- caging should bring in its wake
a widespread reform in the housing of experimental dogs throughout the nation,
many thousands of whom are kept under conditions similar to those that the
F. D. A. beagles have suffered for so long.

*The bill was passed by the Senate on August 2,1961 and signed by the President.
September 21,1961.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Articles and Publications

The Institute was. invited to prepare an article for the November issue
The Arnerican Biology Teacher. Entitled ”The Abuse of Animals in the Class-
room and How It Can Be Avoided”, it cited examples of painful and distressing
animal experiments in schools which the Institute opposes and stated: “P‘rospec-_
tive scientists must be made to realize that a normal, healthy condition in 'the
research animal is the tine aria non of an authentic biological experiment, and
that it is a part of the scientist’s job to see that his animals are well kept. . . .
The importance of a well developed technique of observation in biology can
hardly be overestimated. . . . Cruel experiments involving surgery or stress are
not the training students need. Respect for living things, sound judgment, re-.
liability, and a technique of observation will go further towards making competent
biologists than will the kind of emotions aroused by crude surgery in supposed
imitation of a fantasy hero. . The article suggested teaching biological prin-
ciples using one-celled organisms and colonies of insects. Speciﬁc instructions on
.the proper care and feeding of higher animals, kept in the classroom for observa-.
tion only, were given. Biology teachers who wish to have free reprints of this ’
article are invited to write to the Institute.

The April 1961 issue of the Laboratory Animals Information Service, pub—
lication of the Indian COuncil of Medical Research, published an article by the

President of the Institute entitled ”The Humane Treatment of Experimental
Animals.”

Demand by teachers for the Institute’s manual, ”Humane Biology Projects”,
a 47-page, illustrated collection of experiments, demonstrations and projects for
classréoms and science fairs, necessitated a second printing of 10,000 copies. A
leaﬂet describing the manual and offering one free copy to each teacher was dis-
tributed with a general mailing of the National Science Teachers Association, and
the response was large and prompt.

Grateful acknowledgement is made to the following publications which called
the manual to the attention of their readers: New Harnprnire Science Newsletter,
Loaiciana Sc/Jooly, Connecticat Science Teachers Awociation Newrletter, Me At-
lantic Nataralirt, Science Tip; of the Florida State Department of Education,
Plant Science Balletin of the Botanical Society of America, Biology Letter of
Ward’s Natual Science Establishment, Minnerota fonrnal of Science, Oar Pet
World, and the Balletin of the State of Illinois Ofﬁce of the Superintendent of
Public Instruction.

“First Aid and Care of Small Animals,” by Ernest P. Walker, an Institute
manual now in its fourth printing, is being widely used in primary and secondary
schools in this c0untry and Canada to whose teachers it is provided. free on request.
The following publications very kindly drew attention to this manual and to
"Humane Biology Projects”: Ea’acatorr Progrerr Service, Free and Inexpenrioe
Edacational Materialr, National Park; Magazine, and Vision. The Girl Scout
Leaa’er recommended “First Aid and Care of Small Animals” for Scout groups.

5

 

 

 




 

 

”Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, the Institute manual for use in
scientiﬁc institutions which employ animals, was called to the attention of readers
of The Wildlife Review, Science Product; bulletin and the special supplement
on laboratory animals published by the Federation of American Societies for Ex-
perimental Biology. “Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”, the Insti-
tute’s loose-leaf manual which reproduces architectural plans and photographs,
was also listed.

The newly revised edition of the National Institutes of Health publication,
"Care of the Dog in Medical Research” included, in the form of a quotation of
a private communication from the President of the Institute, a detailed recommen-
dation on the use of roomy inside kennels connecting directly with individual out-
side runways for housing laboratory dogs.

A 7-page Historical Note on the British Act of 1876 was reprinted from the
ﬁrst edition of the ”UFAW Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory
Animals” and is available free on request from the Institute.

"An Introduction to the Anesthesia of Laboratory Animals,” by Phyllis Croft,
Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S. was published by the Universities Federation for Animal Wel-.
fare and made available in this country by the Institute. Dr. Croft, a most humane
and intelligent person, is a UFAW Research Fellow whose past work with elec-
trical stunning has made it possible to prevent much needless suffering. This short
and practical book is provided to research laboratories for ﬁfty cents.

Meetings

At the following meetings, the President of the Institute spoke on legislation
for the humane treatment of experimental animals:

Animal Care Panel, St. Louis, Mo., October 25-28, 1960

Wisconsin Branch of the Animal Care Panel, Madison, Wisconsin,
December 14, 1960

Awards Luncheon of ”Our Pet World” magazine, New York, N. Y.
September 29, 1960

New York State Humane Association, Binghamton, N. Y.,
October 21, 1960

Washington Animal Rescue League, Washington, D.C., April 28, 1961

Michigan Federation of Humane Societies, East Lansing, Mich.,
October 1, 1960

Animal Welfare Institute Annual Meeting, New York, N. Y., May 26, 1961
Other meetings attended by representatives of the Institute were:

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, Executive Committee,
London, England, June, 1961

6




Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, Annual
meeting, Atlantic City, N. J., April 13, 1961

American Association for the Advancement of Science, New York, N. Y.,
December 27-29, 1960. By special arrangement, Animal Welfare In-
stitute panel exhibit of information on legislation for protection of
laboratory animals was displayed in part of National Society for Med-
ical Research Booth in answer to National Society for Medical Research
opposition to the legislation.

Visits to Laboratories

The most effective laboratory visits made last year were a series of six to St.
Vincent’s Hospital in New York City, where a legal agreement made in connection
with purchase of land by the hospital requires it to admit representatives of the
Institute to inspect animal quarters. After a dog jumped off the roof of the
hospital, newspapers in all parts of the country carried the story, and an Animal
Welfare Institute member urged that the animal, which was said to have survived
the fall, be purchased. Representatives of the Institute immediately went to the
hospital, found that the dog was dead, that none of the improvements previously
promised for the care of the animals had been made but rather that appalling
' conditions of ﬁlth and vermin had developed, and that sick animals in the heat
of New York summer were deprived of water.

William A. Carr, columnist and reporter for the New York Port, asked per-
mission to visit the laboratory. In a hard-hitting and highly effective column
August 7, 1960, he stated: “We asked the hospital for permission to look at the
laboratories there ﬁrst hand. After several days of hemming and hawing, the
hospital turned us down. The administrator even threatened to sue if we printed
what we had found out about animal facilities there.”

A reporter for the New York Herald Tribune who had printed a reassuring
account (including a statement that the dog squeezed through a hole in the fence
when he jumped off the roof, though the truth was that there was no fence at all)
tried to get permission to visit the laboratory. He, too, was refused admittance.
The Tribzme, however, would not print any correction of the biased and. inaccurate
article they had printed, and the Institute is indebted to Popular Dogs for printing
in full with a helpful introduction the rejected letter of correction.

The Hospital removed the tick-and mite-infested dogs and rabbits and the
piles of excrement. One doctor noted with amazement the myriads of ticks. that
emerged from cracks during fumigation. The laboratory was completely repainted.
A sturdy fence was built around the roof. Resting boards were provided for all
mesh bottom dog cages. One room was set aside for incoming animals. However,
the Director of Laboratories continued to resist the provision of water for guinea
pigs. On the ﬁfth Animal Welfare Institute visit, renewed complaints over the
condition of these animals, many of whose hair was falling out and whose ears

7

 

 




 

 

were scabby and half-gone, led to a major reduction in the overcrowding, the
purchase of better quality food, and the provision of water for all guinea pigs.
On the sixth visit the animals were observed eagerly sipping from the freshly ﬁlled
water bottles. The dogs have demonstrated their strong preference for resting
boards on all visits, too.

Much time and effort were expended to obtain these minimum requirements
for animal care. Without Mr. Carr’s fearless reporting, these efforts might well.
have been fruitless as have so many of the efforts in the past to improve conditions
in individual laboratories. through simple requests to supply the basic needs of
animals. St. Vincent’s laboratory is now markedly above average in animal housing
and care. It demonstrates the effectiveness of the combination of thorough inspec-
tion, legal right of entry, and strong incentive (in this case provided by unfavor-
able publicity) to achieve decent standards. These component parts are all present
in H.R. 1937 for the humane treatment of experimental animals.

Another ‘bad case where cure by publicity was attempted concerned a large
number of excessively emaciated and suffering dogs at the Cedars of Lebanon
Hospital in Los Angeles. Thanks are due to Pamela Mason for calling attention
to this on her radio program. Regrettably, it has not been possible to follow
thrOugh on inspections here to ascertain whether reforms have been initiated in the
planning of experiments or care of the animals as suggested at the time of the visit.

Protection of Wildlife

The long—awaited Senate vote on the International Convention for the Preven—
tion of Pollution of the Sea by Oil was taken on May 16th; it passed resoundingly
with a vote of 92 to 0. Domestic enabling legislation was introduced promptly
and passed. Prevention of oil pollution is essential in order to prevent long-drawn-

Out death by starvation of large numbers of sea birds whose feathers become oil-
soaked so they cannot ﬂy.

Hearings on H.R. 777, introduced by Rep. John P. Saylor of Pennsylvania
for the protection of marine mammals (polar bear, walrus and sea otter) on the
high seas, were held with other conservation measures May 9th to 11th before
a subcommittee of the House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries.*
Representative Saylor spoke warmly in support of “his bill terming present gunning
of these animals from planes ”ruthless slaughter.” The animals are often left to
die slowly from their wounds. It is important both for the prevention of needless

suffering and for the preservation of disappearing species that the legislation be
enacted now.

*The bill was slightly amended, reported by the Committee as H.R. 7490 and passed by
the House of Representatives on August let. Senate action is awaited.

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

Rep. Leonard G. Wolf, sponsor in the 87th Congress of legislation which
w0uld have required consultation by the Department of Agriculture with the Fish
and Wildlife Service before mass use of pesticides, was defeated at the polls.
Rep. John Dingell (D.Mich.) is now leading this effort which is greatly needed
to prevent the continued sickness and death of large numbers of wild birds and
mammals from use of chlorinated hydrocarbons and other highly toxic insecticides.

Miss Rachel Carson, an expert on this subject and. new member of the In-
stitute’s Advisory Committee, has called attention to pollution of Tule Lake and
Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuges with insecticides which apparently.
reached the lakes through irrigation ditches and caused the death of hundreds of
ﬁsh-eating birds.

In. Britain, Christopher Soames, Minister of Agriculture, announced in the
HOuse of Commons that the use of aldrin, dieldrin and heptachlor would be
restricted.

Humane Slaughter

State humane slaughter laws were passed this year in Kansas, Rhode Island,
Connecticut, Florida, Oregon and Maine. California, Massachusetts, Minnesota,
New Hampshire, Washington and Wisconsin had passed this legislation in the
two previous years. It is designed to protect animals in small packing plants not
covered by the Federal Humane Slaughter Act which went into effect in 1960.
The United States Department of Agriculture reports that 91% of all food animals
slaughtered in federally inspected plants are now humanely killed. An excellent
article by Paul W. Kearney (winner of the Schweitzer Medal for 1957) and
Richard Dempewolff appeared in the magazine Together, published by the Meth-
odist Publishing House, and was condensed and republished by the Reader; Digert
in January. Reprints are available free on request from the Institute.

Two devices for humane handling of cattle prior to kosher slaughter were
invented and put into operation in Canada last year. Full details are given in the
September-October and. January-February Reports. An article in T/ye National
Provirioner stated: ”The unit has been approved as humane. by the orthodox di-
vision of the Canadian Jewish Congress, humane societies and the Veterinary
Director General of the Canada Department of Agriculture. Operated by one
man who moves the animal into position and controls the neck extending frame,
the unit reportedly restrains up to 75 head per hour for the schochet.” These pens
used in conformance with the requirements of the Canadian Humane Slaughter
Act have put an end to the shackling and hoisting of conscious cattle in Canada.
A modified version of the pen, meeting all requirements of the Meat Inspection
Division of the United States Department of Agriculture, is expected to be in
operation soon. This should remove all rational objection to enactment of humane
slaughter laws forbidding the shackling and hoisting of conscious animals.

9

 

 




 

 

Information Reports

The Information Reports, issued five times a year to about 12,000 educational,
_ scientiﬁc and humane grOup-s and individuals, dealt with the subjects treated above.
Some additional highlights are summarized below. '

Henry Beetle Hough, well-known author and editor of the Vineyard Gazette
Edgarton, Massachusetts, wrote a letter to the Reader; Digert in defense of the
pending legislation for the humane treatment of experimental animals. .It was
published in the January-February Report. Mr. Hough said the March Digert
article, ”Vivisection, an Explosive Issue Again”, was "open to serious challenge
on the ground of honesty and accuracy,” and noted that the author is a special
pleader. ”Mr. Ratcliff refers to the ‘well-meaning but misguided efforts of the
Animal Welfare Institute.’ The phrases are obviously chosen for the purpose of
discrediting the Animal Welfare Institute and those who support it. Yet this is
the organization primarily responsible for enactment of the humane slaughter bill
which has, at long last, introduced a great measure of humanity into the slaughter-
ing industry. It may be noted that the United States was far behind the COurltries
of Europe in the civilized usages, and that special pleaders for the American meat
industry used the same specious arguments against the Animal Welfare Institute
that are now applied by Mr. Ratcliff. Yet the humane slaughter legislation proved
entirely practical and certainly was not misguided. . . . There is abundant evidence
that the medical profession is too careless or indifferent or pre-occupied to safe-
guard the care of animals undergoing or about to undergo experimentation. Here
in Massachusetts, during debate on the so-called animal seizure bill, the profession
gave unqualiﬁed assurances that seized animals would be humanely cared for.
Within a matter of weeks after passage of the bill, animals kept for the use of
one of the best known clinics in America were found being kept under atrocious
conditions in a state of semi~starvati0n and cruelty.”

Correction of some of the false statements in the Digerl‘ article were published
following the Hough letter.

A news dispatch to the New York Timer from John Hillaby in London
headed “Curb in Research Denied by Britons, Biologists Find No Handicap in
Government Rules on Use of Living Animals” was published in the January-
February Information Report.

An excellent statement by the Florida State Department of Education on
animals in classrooms was reprinted in the September-October Report with a sug-
gestion that other States should follow suit. “A science teacher who proposes to
use live animals in teaching procedures must be aware, first of all, that issues of
morality may be and often are involved,” the Education Department stated. “It is
important that the health and well-being of animals not be interfered with when
they are being used in the classroom.” Referring to treatment of animals which
may “in the opinion of many psychologists and psychiatrists, be harmfully trau-
matic to the student,” the statement concluded, ”A student may ‘learn’ many things
from classroom use of animals, and physiology may be the least of them.”

10

 

 

 




 

 

 

The urgent need for action to prevent painful experiments in high schools
was pointed out in the March-April Report which cited some recent examples: A
15-year-old boy who “inserted clear plastic windows in the abdomens of three
white rats. Through the windows he can watch development of "babies in the» two '
rats who are expectant mothers”. A 15-year-old girl who “seeks cancer'cure” and
is “currently doing research on DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, the hottest thing in
modern biology.” A 15-year-old boy injecting cancer cells under the skins of
“about 30” mice, waiting for the tumors to grow “sometimes half as big as the
mouse”, then operating to remove them. A 12-year-old boy transplanting corneas
in the eyes of monkeys. The report urged support of two simple rules for high
school biology:

1. Animals being observed by students must always be maintained in the
maximum possible condition of health, comfort, and well-being.

2. No vertebrate animal used for primary or secondary school teaching may
be subjected to any experiment or procedure which interferes with its
normal health or causes it pain or distress.

Angelo Patri, noted educator and writer, stated for publication in this Re-
port: “The secondary pupil is emotionally immature, and his character still un-
stable, and he should not be exposed to such experiences.”

Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt wrote to the President of the National P.T.A. Con-
gress, stating: “In view of the forthcoming convention of the P.T.A., I w0uld
like to join all those who sympathize with the principles of humane education and
urge you, as President of the National P.T.A. Congress to include a discussion on
this vital matter and reinstate humane education on the program of the P.T.A.
It seems to me to be of great importance to teach our children respect for life.
Towards this end, experiments on living animals in classrooms should be stopped.
To encourage cruelty—in the name of science—can only destroy the ﬁner emotions
of affection and sympathy and breed an unfeeling callousness in the young towards
suffering in all living creatures.” This letter was published in the March-April
Report.

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Rachel L. Carson David Ricardo Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

Christine Stevens, President ° Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary ' Roger L. Stevens, T teas.
Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

 




 




NINTH ANNUAL REPORT

Illustration from “Humane Biology Projects”,
new free manual for teachers

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

 




 

NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street, New York 3, New York
(July 1, 1959 to June 30, 1960)

Protection of Laboratory Animals

The most important step ever taken toward the protection of laboratory
animals in this country was the introduction in the United States Senate on May
18 of S. 3570, ”An Act to provide for the humane treatment of animals used in
experiment and tests by recipients of grants from the United States and by agencies
and instrumentalities of the United States Government, and for other purposes.”
The measure was introduced by the Hon. John Sherman Cooper (R, Ky.) and
12 co-sponsors: Hon. E. L. Bartlett (D., Alaska), Hon. Robert C. Byrd (D.,
W. Va.), Hon. Joseph S. Clark (D., Pa), Hon. Ernest Gruening (D, Alaska),
Hon. Estes Kefauver (D., Tenn), Hon. Mike Mansﬁeld (D. Mont), Hon. Pat
McNamara (D., Mich.), Hon. Wayne Morse (D., Oreg.), Hon. William Proxmire
(D., Wis), Hon. Jennings Randolph (D., W. Va), Hon. Harrison Williams, Jr.
(D., N.J.), Hon. Frank Church (D., Idaho). Identical bills were introduced in
the House of Representatives by the Hon. Martha Grifﬁths (D., Mich), the Hon.
Cleveland M. Bailey (D, W. Va.), and the Hon. James C. Oliver (D., Maine).

This proposed legislation, designed to prevent unnecessary cruelty to animals
used in research institutions receiving Federal grants and in departments and
agencies of the Federal Government, is now pending in both Senate and House.
At the time of it introduction, Senator Cooper stated:

“I am aware that there are those who have raised objection to this proposal. Yet
it seems to me that the objectives of the bill are such that they are entitled to be
considered by the appropriate committees of the Congress. I do not say that the
language is perfect or that every approach is necessarily the proper one. Certainly,
the objectives of the bill are worthwhile, and it merits earnest attention. I am in—
formed that this bill would not inhibit or prevent experimental research. Nor is it
my intention or that of the co-sponsors of this bill to do so. Its basic goal is to insure
that in experiments requiring the use of animals, precautions will be taken and every
effort will be made to conduct such experiments in a manner that is as humane as
possible.”

The Cooper bill, like the British Act of 1876 on whose principles it is based,
will not hamper research, but will encourage scientiﬁc work of the highest quality
and, by establishing humane standards having the force of law, will protect
scientists from unwarranted attacks at the same time as it protects animals from
unnecessary suffering. Among other provisions, the bill requires personal li-
censing of every scientist using animals in any institution supported in whole
or in part by the taxpayers’ money. It provides for removal of a scientist’s
license to experiment, and withholding of Federal funds, if he is guilty of in-
humane actions. It requires that experimental plans be pre-ﬁled with the Secretary

 

 

 




 

 

of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. It provides that proper
records be kept concerning the use and disposal of animals. And it provides for
Federal government inspection of the vast majority of the country’s laboratories,
to insure adherence to humane standards of care, housing and experimentation.
In short, the proposed legislation will protect animals from abuse, but will not
hamper responsible research.

Commenting editorially on the bill, on June 6, the IVarbington (D.C.) P05!
stated:

“Real research will not be restricted by a law requiring decent care, feeding and
housing of animals awaiting experimentation. In many experiments, it will not be
inhibited by a little extra effort expended to anesthetize animals or to put them out
of their misery when the experiment has been completed. The standards ought to be
ﬁxed by scientists themselves and they ought to make ample allowance even for remote
possibilities of advancing human knowledge. But some setting and enforcement of
standards are necessary to keep sadism from being confused with science.”

A striking example of the type of housing that would not be permitted if
the Cooper bill were enacted exists at the Food and Drug Administration in
Washington, DC, where over 200 beagles are being kept for periods of two
to seven years in a sub-basement, in 30” x 36” cages, from which they are never
removed for exercise. This year, as a result of protests from humanitarians, hear-
ings were held before a Senate sub-committee. Food and Drug Administration
ofﬁcials requested funds to build a laboratory-kennel building in which the dogs
could have outside runways. To date, such funds have not been made available,
and these animals being used for the public beneﬁt remain caged in their window-
less basement rooms, with nothing to rest on but the metal mesh ﬂoors of their
cages, and no means of normal exercise.*

“The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique”

This year the Institute distributed an excellent new book for investigators
who use experimental animals entitled ”The Principles of Humane Experimental
Technique”, published by Methuen & Co., Ltd, London. Representing five years
of study by Dr. W. M. 8. Russell and Mr. R. L. Burch, under the sponsorship of
the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, the book presents a full discussion
of the three main modes of making experiments both more humane and more
efficient:

replacement of animals as objects of experiment by insentient material such
as tissue cultures;

reduction in the numbers of animals used to obtain results of given precision,
chieﬂy by controlling individual variation in their physiological responses;

reﬁnement of procedures employed when animals still have to be used.

*As this report goes to press, we learn that $100,000 has been approved by Congress for
the planning of a laboratory—kennel building during the Congressional recess.

 




 

The book shOuld be of particular interest to experimental biologists and those
engaged in human and veterinary medicine, teaching and the pharmaceutical in-
dustry. It is available from the Institute at $4.20 per copy.

Humane Education

The latest publication of the Institute—a 47-page, illustrated manual entitled
"Humane Biology Projects”—was completed in April and made available upon
request to high school teachers. One copy is provided free to any teacher who
requests it, and supplies in bulk to principals and superintendents; to all others
it is sold at cost, 25¢. The manual is a collection of experiments, demonstrations
and projects for classrooms and Science Fairs and the Institute is grateful to the
scientists and educators who generously cooperated in its preparation. It has
chapters on Ecology and Conservation, Bacteriology, Animal Behavior, Genetics,
Botany and Physiology. It is hoped that this manual, which emphasizes the sub-
stitution of lower for higher forms of life in laboratory experiments, and the study
of normal animal behavior instead of the inﬂiction of injury or disease, will help
teachers to give sound scientific training and develop close observation and original
thinking in their students. The preface contributed by Rachel Cars-on, distinguished
.author of “The Sea Around Us”, states:

“It is essential that the beginning student should ﬁrst become acquainted with the
true meaning of his subject through observing the lives of creatures in their true
relation to each other and to their environment. To begin by asking him to observe
artiﬁcial conditions is to create in his mind distorted conceptions and to thwart the
development of his natural emotional response to the mysteries of the life stream of

which he is a part. Only as a child’s awareness and reverence for the wholeness of
life are developed can his humanity to his own kind reach its full development.”

The Institute also gratefully acknowledges the contributions to the manual
by Dr. Charles G. Wilber, Chief, Comparative Physiology Branch, Directorate of
Medical Research, US. Army Chemical Warfare Laboratories, Army Chemical
Center; Dr. Dorothy D. Hammond, Assistant Professor of Biology, Hunter Col-
lege; Dr. Lee R. Dice, former Director, Institute of Human Biology, University
of Michigan; Dr. H. W. Youngken, Jr., Dean, College of Pharmacy, University
of Rhode Island; Dr. Ernest P. Walker, former Assistant Director, National
Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution; Dr. L. S. McClung, Chairman, Committee
on Education, Society of American Bacteriologists; Dr. R. Dean Schick, Professor
of Science, New York State University of Education; Miss Betty E. Bayliss of the
School Nature Study Union, England, (from whose journal much of the work
has been reprinted with modifications); and the following members of the staff
of the New York Botanical Garden: Dr. Marjorie Anchel, Dr. Alma Barksdale,
Mr. Charles C. Clare, Jr., Dr. Richard Klein and Dr. David J. Rogers. Publica-
tion of this manual was made possible through the ﬁne generosity of The Ingram
Merril Foundation.

The Institute’s other publication for school use, ”First Aid and Care of Small
Animals”, is now in its fourth edition; it continues to be widely used throughout
this country and Canada in primary and secondary schools, to whose teachers it is
'provided free upon request.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Protection of Wildlife

The Institute has become increasingly concerned over the indiscriminate dis-
semination by the Federal Government of insecticides and poisons which have
inﬂicted severe damage on ﬁsh and wildlife. It submitted testimony in favor of
the pesticides coordination bills which were introduced in Congress by Repre-
sentative Leonard G. Wolf (D., Iowa) and Senator Warren G. Magnuson (D.,
Wash). The bills’ purpose was to provide for advance consultation with the Fish
and Wildlife Service and with State wildlife agencies before the beginning of any
Federal program involving the mass use of pesticides.

Half of the November-December Information Report was devoted to an
article on the effect of the most ”popular” new poisons on life, which quoted
Dr. George J. Wallace, zoologist at Michigan State University, Dr. Malcolm M.
Hargraves of Mayo Clinic, and others on the dangers of these highly toxic chlo-
rinated hydrocarbons and organic phosphates. Effective action to stop unnecessary
dissemination of poison is urgently needed for the protection of our wildlife, our
domestic animals. and ourselves.

Some progress was made during the year in the effort to prevent pollution
of the seas with oil wastes, which kills birds by clinging to their plumage so that
they cannot ﬂy. On February 15, the President sent to the Senate for advice and
consent to acceptance the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution
of the Sea by Oil. An inter-departmental committee of the State Department had
recommended that the United States accept, with minor reservations, this Con-
vention which is now adhered to by countries representing nearly half the world’s
tanker shipping. It is hoped that our country will soon ratify this Convention,
and that other countries will follow our example.

Laboratory Animal Care and Housing

The Institute continued distribution of free information about animal care
and housing to scientists and technicians, upon request, including its loose leaf,
74-page publication ”Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”. This
manual, containing ﬂoor plans, construction details, etc., is designed to guide in-
stitutions in remodelling their animal quarters or designing new ones; one copy
is provided to each institution without charge. Copies are also sent upon request
to architectural firms planning animal quarters.

The companion manual, ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, was also
distributed to scientiﬁc institutions during the year. This latter 68-page manual
is written in simple language and illustrated, with chapters on the animals most
commonly used in laboratories, and appendices on nutrition and transportation.
Copies may be obtained from the Institute free upon request by scientiﬁc institu-
tions, in sufficient number so that every person employed in the care of animals
and every medical or veterinary medical student may have an individual copy.
The manual is now in use in 48 States and 43 foreign countries, and translations
have been made into Japanese and German.

 




 

The Institute also continued distribution of the revised edition of ”The UFAW
Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals”, a 951-page
illustrated book published in England by the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare, which gives full and technical information on care, housing and breed-
ing of laboratory animals. It is available at $9.80.

A British ﬁlm, ”Handling Laboratory Animals”, which complements the
publications of the Institute, is also available to scientific institutions from the
Institute. Produced by MacQueen Films, in cooperation with the National In-
stitute for Medical Research in England, it demonstrates correct handling of
twelve common species. of laboratory animals. It is available for rental at $3 per
week or for purchase at $65.

Articles on the care and housing of laboratory animals are also published
in the bi-monthly Information Reports of the Institute. The Reports are distrib-
uted to the members of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental
Biology as well as to 5,683 other individuals and groups.

An encouraging development reported in the September-October Information
Report was the excellent statement regarding the welfare of laboratory animals
which was included in the Report of the Senate Committee on Appropriations:

“It has come to the attention of the committee that many of the research pro-
grams to be operated with the appropriations provided in this bill involve the use of
animals for experimentation and that in many instances totally inadequate facilities
are provided for housing them in a humane manner consistent with the experiments
being conducted. The committee strongly urges that every effort be made to provide

suitable and comfortable quarters and that these animals not be subjected to the un-
necessary cruelty involved in their being carelessly and improperly housed.

“The maintenance of such quarters for animals used in research is a proper
expense of such activities.”

In View of this statement concerning research done with government grants,
it is urged that grantees take sufﬁcient interest in the well-being of the animals
in their charge to make sure they are given proper care and housing. Since 1956,
Federal funds have been available, on a matching basis, to non-proﬁt scientiﬁc
institutions for construction, expansion and/or equipping research facilities, in-
cluding quarters for laboratory animals. A sum not to exceed $30,000,000 per
year was approved by Congress for this purpose for 1960, 1961 and 1962. The
Institute believes that comfortable quarters for the animals used in research should
be regarded by all institutions as morally obligatory. This generous government
provision for both construction and equipment makes possible the elimination of
bad animal quarters wherever the will exists to give research animals decent space
for exercise, comfortable resting places and sanitation adequate to prevent the
spread of disease. -

Humane Slaughter

New Hampshire in August, 1959, and Massachusetts in June, 1960, joined
Washington, California, Minnesota and Wisconsin in adopting state humane
slaughter laws. In several other States, similar bills were introduced but did not




pass. The uniform state humane slaughter bill approved by the Council on State
Governments is expected to be introduced next year in many States. In Canada
on July 15, 1959, Parliament enacted humane slaughter legislation which will
protect an estimated 80% of the animals slaughtered in that country.

In preparation for the July 1, 1960 deadline for compliance with the Federal
humane slaughter bill, packers were making the change-over throughOut the year
to one of the accepted humane methods. Great credit is 'due to the National
Provisioner, weekly magazine of the packing industry, which devoted an entire
issue on January 9 to the subject of humane slaughter. This issue provided all
facts needed by packers concerning installation of every type of humane slaughter-
ing equipment.

A last-minute attempt to avoid compliance with the Federal law in purchases
under $2,500 was made by the Military Subsistence Supply Agency, purchaser of
all meat for the armed forces. This attempt was promptly and effectively blocked
by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey and Representative W. R. Poage, chief sponsors
of the legislation in the Senate and House, and Representative Martha Grifﬁths,
who immediately pointed out that such an attempted exemption was illegal. In a
strongly worded speech on the Senate ﬂoor, Sen. Humphrey stated:

“The law is clear . . . The packers have had from a year and a half to two years
to bring themselves into compliance . . . It requires no more bookkeeping or intelli-
gence in the procurement section of the Army to procure meat products according to
law than it does to avoid its impact. I suggest that the Department of the Army
get in step at once. It is out of step. I propose that those in charge of this activity
read the act and comply with its provisions.”

On June 14th, Sen. Humphrey was informed by the Army that it will comply
in full with the provisions of the Federal Humane Slaughter Law.

Summary of Information Reports

In addition to the subjects speciﬁcally treated above, following are summaries
and excerpts of some of the material which appeared in the bi-monthly Informa-
tion Reports:

An analysis of the opposition to the Cooper laboratory animals bill, from such
extremes as the National Anti-Vivisection Society and the National Society for
Medical Research, was printed in the May-June Report; it was pointed out that
the Cooper bill is similar to the British Act, which is the most practical and
effective legislation in this field ever enacted. Six editorials in support of the
measure, from the Louisville (Ky.) Courier-Journal, Washington (DC) Post,
Troy (N.Y.) Times-Record, Washington (DC) Evening Star, Asbury Park
(NJ) Evening Press and Hartford (Conn) Courant, were reprinted in full. (In
addition to these papers, fine editorial support has been given by The Daily News,
(Springﬁeld, Mass), Fort Wayne (1nd.) News-Sentinel, The Asheville (N.C.)
Citizen, The Cincinnati (Ohio) Enquirer, The Sacramento (Calif) Bee, The
Progress-Index, (Petersburg, Va), The Pontiac (Mich) Press, The Waco (Tex.)
News-Tribune, Bergen (NJ) Evening Record, Tacoma (Wash) News Tribune,
Trenton (NJ) Times, The Town Crier (Westport, Conn), Louisville (Ky)
Times, Elizabeth (NJ) Daily JOurnal, Barre-Montpelier (Vt) Times-Argus,
Meriden (Conn) Journal, Peru (1nd.) Republican, Bronxville (N.Y.) Review
Press-Reporter, Huntington (N.Y.) Long Islander, Star-News, (Pasadena, Calif),

 




 

 

Auburn (N.Y.) Citizen Advertiser, Modesto (Calif) Bee, Fresno (Calif) Bee,
Waco (Tex) Times-Herald and the Waterbury (Conn) American).

The complete text of the bill was printed in the March-April Report, along
with Senator Cooper’s remarks at the time of the bill’s introduction. Legislation
requiring decent care and housing for animals and humane design of experiments,
the Report stated, will help men of good will in every part of a scientiﬁc insti-
tution to obtain the best results under the best conditions. After explaining that
the record-keeping required by the bill would not be an onerous task, the Report
concluded: ”Surely it is well worth this very minor effort to ensure high humane
standards for American research. Those who pay the taxes from which ever grow-
ing research funds are obtained (a 65% increase in government funds for medical
research was requested by research leaders on May 19) have a right to effective
guarantees that animals are never used unnecessarily or subjected to needless

suffering.”
>z< >x< *

Excerpts from the remarks of Dr. P. L. C. Carrier, Chief Inspector of the
Home Ofﬁce which administers the Act regulating animal experiments in Great
Britain, before the annual meeting of the Animal Care Panel, were published in
the November-December Report. ”The Act does not interfere with the progress
of science”, he said. “We only want to make sure animals do not go through
unnecessary suffering. We won’t allow animals to die in agony.”

The ”Pain Rules” under the British Act are as follows:

a) If an animal at any time during the said experiment is found to be suffering
pain which is either severe or is likely to endure, and if the main result of the
experiment has been attained, the animal shall forthwith be painlessly killed;

b) If an animal at any time during any of the said experiments is found to be
suffering severe pain which is likely to endure, such animal shall forthwith
be painlessly killed;

c) lf an animal appears to an Inspector to be suffering considerable pain, and
if such Inspector directs such animal to be destroyed, it shall forthwith be
painlessly killed.

The many great discoveries made in Britain by men working under these
Pain Rules were cited by Major C. W. Hume, Secretary General of the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare, whose address to the Animal Care Panel was also
reported in the November-December Report. Major Hume pointed out that some
10 Nobel prizes have been awarded for physiology and medicine in Britain.

* * *

The new editorial policy of the American Physiological Society, prohibiting
publication of papers involving improper use of experimental animals, was an-
nounced 1n the March-April Report, and the Society was congratulated. The
Report reprinted the following announcement from the January, 1960 issue of
the American Journal of Physiology:

‘.‘Papers submitted to the American Journal of Physiology or the Journal Of
Applied Physmlogy,.about which question is raised as to the proper use or care of
the experimental animals, will be referred to the Committee of the Society on Use

and Care of Animals In cases where there is evidence of improper use, the papers
Will not be considered further for publication.”

. e5"

 




 

The Report commented that this new editorial policy for the two publica-
tions, if strictly observed, will be an excellent incentive for the humane planning

of experiments.
>x< * a

Two outstandingly well-prepared and humane articles on the care and housing
of experimental dogs, which appeared in the Proceedings of the Animal Care
Panel, were praised and summarized in the March-April Report. Both articles
recognized the need of experimental dogs for companionship of another dog
whenever possible, thorough and capable veterinary supervision during sickness
and convalescence, space for exercise, a comfortable resting place, good food and
fresh water. In the article, ”Preoperative and Postoperative Care of the Laboratory
Dog” by Mr. N. Bleicher, the Report stated, a detailed description of good care
for dogs used in experimental surgery is given which might well be used as a
model for all institutions. Mr. Bleicher stressed the need for patience, time and
gentle treatment, and stated: ”The detection of pain in the dog is often quite
difﬁcult. This, unfortunately, has led many people to assume that pain is not
present postoperatively. . . . We must constantly be aware of the responsibility to
detect pain when present and to administer suitable analgesics, local or systemic.”
The second article, by Drs. A. C. Anderson and H. R. Baker, entitled “The Pro-
duction and Use of Beagles for Radiobiological Research”, pointed out two factors
contributing to the general health of the dog: proper nutrition and the provision
of at least 10 square feet of pen area, per inch of body height for each dog. The
article concluded: “We feel that the four main factors contributing to a successful
kennel are: 1. Adequate space for voluntary exercise. 2. Maintaining dogs in
pairs for companionship. 3. Proper nutrition. 4. Rational use of therapeutic

measures.”
a a *

Another step toward increasing use of chemicals instead of live animals in
testing chemical substances was announced in the January-February Report. Tests
by the Food and Drug Administration to determine the strength of Vitamin D
preparations, which formerly used rats or chicks, are now entirely chemical, the

Report stated.
>x< * >x<

Two encouraging developments in the effort to prevent painful experiments
by immature youths were cited in the September-October Report:

1) The 1960 Science Achievement Awards for Students, conducted by the
Future Scientists of America Foundation of the National Science Teachers Asso-
ciation, announced a new rule stating that no project reports giving evidence either
of unsafe procedures in experimentation with rockets or of cruel and inhumane
treatment of animals would be considered for awards.

2) In response to letters of protest against the expenditure of Government
funds to encourage high school experimentation with animals, the Chief of the
Division of Research Grants of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare
announced that no additional grants would be made to high school teachers for
any purpose.

 




 

Readers of the Information Report were urged to join in protesting large
grants of tax funds for cruel experiments by high school students currently being
provided by the National Science Foundation in Washington, an independent
Federal agency over which the Department of Health, Education and Welfare
has no control. The Report commented: “There is no need, in any scientiﬁc pro-
gram for high school students, to inﬂict suffering on animals. A simple ruling by
the National Science Foundation in the awarding of grants could put an end to
painful experiments by high school students working under its sponsorship. It is
important that the National Science Foundation be made aware of the deep con-
cern felt by citizens throughout the nation.”

False claims by the promoters of children’s experiments on animals, to create
the illusion that launching of home-made rockets containing live mice have the
endorsement and encouragement of responsible scientists and government agencies,
were refuted in the September-October Report. Dr. Wernher von Braun, inter-
nationally known missile expert, ﬂatly denied that he had congratulated three
youngsters preparing to launch a mouse-carrying missile, as had been reported in
an Associated Press dispatch; Mr. T. Keith Glennan, Administrator of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration, denied that the NASA. was di-
recting construction of a mouse-carrying rocket being built by Long Island, New
York, Boy Scouts, as had been reported in a New York newspaper.

Humanitarians who have long been demanding the abolition of cruel animal
experiments in the teaching of high school science were heartened by the splendid
article “A Question of Value” by Dorothy Thompson which appeared in the
February Ladier Home [om-ml, and which, with the kind permission of the [02mm],
was mailed to readers of the Information Report with the January-February issue.
Miss Thompson, protesting the unnecessary cruelty being inﬂicted in the name of
"science teaching” and the resulting demoralizing effects on the children, stated:

“In the long run, it would seem nations and civilizations rise or decline according
to the values they are able to cultivate, maintain and transmit, and I know of no
civilization that has long endured whose values were purely economic, material and
‘scientiﬁc’ . . . I submit that in the education of children and adolescent youth,
nothing should enter the curriculum that tends to produce unfeeling callousness.”

An editorial entitled “Cruelty to Teen-agers”, from the New York Daily N ewr,
was reprinted in the same Report. “A person without pity and without sympathy
is not a fully developed human being”, the editorial stated. ”An older person
who blunts or destrOys a youngster’s instincts of pity and sympathy comes close to
committing a crime against the youngster”.

”Humane Science Teaching” was the title of an article written for the No-
vember-December Report by Miss Mabel E. Crafts, Chairman of the Animal
Welfare Committee of the Florida Federation of Humane Societies, which told of
the following splendid rules adopted by the Florida State Department of Public
Instruction concerning science teaching in the public schools of Florida:

“1) Animals being observed by students should always be maintained in the
maximum possible condition of health, comfort and well-being.

“2) No vertebrate animal used for primary or secondary school teaching may
be subjected to any experiment or procedure which interferes with its normal
health or causes it pain or distress.”

 

 

 




 

The television code relating to cruelty to animals, adopted by the National
Association of Broadcasters, was reprinted in the January-February Report, and
readers were asked to refer to this code when complaining to a station concerning
a program showing cruelty. The code, to which all major networks and 580 in-
dependent stations subscribe, states as follows:

“The use of horror for its own sake will be eliminated; the use of visual or aural
effects which would shock or alarm the viewer, and the detailed presentation of
brutality or physical agony by sight or by sound are not permissible.

“The use of animals both in the production of television programs and as a part
of television program content, shall at all times be in conformity with accepted
standards of humane treatment.”

A tribute to the late Senator Richard L. Neuberger, whose interest in the
protection of animals and in the conservation of our natural resources was widely
known, appeared in the March-April Report. Noting his crusading spirit and his.
vigorous support for various conservation measures including the Wilderness Bill
still pending before Congress, the Report stated: “This bill would preserve in
perpetuity a tiny part of the magniﬁcent wild mountains, forests, rivers, lakes and
seashore of our country. It will be a great tribute to the memory of the Senator if
the bill is passed. For the country, it will be a triumph of wisdom and restraint that
will be admired for centuries. It will stand as a memorial to a truly great man.”

 

 

 

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg David Ricardo Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

Christine Stevens, President ' Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary ' Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

Illustration from “Humane Biology Projests”, new tree manual for teachers.
Cover photograph by Ernest P. Walker.

 




 




EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street

New York 3, NewYork

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N. Y.
(Ju1y 1, 1958 to June 30, 1959)

Humane Education

The Animal Welfare Institute has been profoundly concerned by the growing
volume of evidence that a substantial number of high school students has been
encouraged to perform experiments involving surgery or stress on live animals
in their schools and even at home, in improvised and unsupervised laboratories.
Humane men of science agree with the Institute that students below college level
are not yet prepared to undertake animal experimentation: crude experiments, un~
productive of scientific results, are demoralizing to students who should ideally
be learning that they have a responsibility to treat their domestic animals with
humanity and kindness. For example, Dr. Chauncey Leake, Dean of the College of
Medicine at Ohio State University and President-elect of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, has stated: ”It seems to me that it is wise to
avoid getting our youngsters so enthused over biological sciences that they are
anxious to undertake extensive animal experimentation without the background,
the experience, the judgment, or the wisdom, that is necessary in handling animals
appropriately for complicated biological experimentation. In other words, I think
we had better continue to learn the hard way: there is plenty of biology to be
gotten from a study of unicellular organisms that can be readily obtained in any
high school laboratory, and handled and followed with skill and convenience. We
are apt to get into trouble using animals.”

.In order to bring public attention to this problem, the Institute devoted an
entire issue of the Information Report (Vol. 8, No. 2) to some of the more cruel
high school experiments which have been publicized, especially those sanctioned
by the National Science Teachers Association. It also printed some adverse com-
ments from the press and from scientists and educators. The Universities Federa-
tion for Animal Welfare was responsible for the excellent collection of comments
on these experiments from England. Representative were the Resolution of the
British School Nature Study Union to the National Science Teachers Association:

”It should be known that such experiments on living animals would result
in: Great: Britain in a prosecution under the Cruelty to Animals Act and we
beg that, where there is no protection by similar acts, the educational world
should act according to the highest moral principles in the matter. . . . Apart
from the fact that pupils must inevitably become regardless of the sufferings
of animals by carrying out these experiments in the guise of cancer research,
they are given a completely false picture of the responsibility and difficulties
of serious research. . .

 




 

and the comments of a British school girl:
"It is a means of letting teenagers indulge a vicious streak. . . . They are
being taught to take life and so hold life very cheaply. Some of them are
probably using the animals as toys and means of amusement.”

A fourth edition of the Institute’s publication, ”First Aid and Care of Small
Animals”, was published this year. The manual, which is intended to increase the
student’s understanding of the needs of wild animals, and to inculcate a humane
attitude towards them, is distributed free to teachers, teachers’ colleges, and li-
braries. Since it was ﬁrst published in 1955, approximately 31,500 copies have
been distributed.

On the advice of scientists and educators who share the Institute’s position
with regard to animal experimentation by children, the Institute is preparing a
pamphlet describing some humane special projects in biology which could replace
cruel nutrition experiments, surgical experiments and similar practices. The projects
will emphasize the substitution of lower for higher forms of life in laboratory
experiments, and the study of normal animal behavior instead of the inﬂiction of
injury or disease. The pamphlet is to be ready in the fall of 1959. It, too, will
be distributed without charge.

Protection of Un-Domesticated Animals

The Institute prepared testimony in behalf of H.R. 2725, a bill designed to
prevent the pursuit of wild horses and burros with motorized equipment. At
present wild horses living on public lands are hunted from airplanes; the hunters
stampede the horses by ﬁring at them with the intent to wound, but not kill, and
then pursue them until they are exhausted. They are then dragged onto trucks
and transported to the canneries where they are made into pet food.*

The Institute .has been investigating the use of insecticides and poisons by
the Federal Government, and has taken a stand in opposition to the present gov-
ernment policy of indiscriminate dissemination of poisons. It has been distributing
the article ”Uncontrollable Control”, reprinted from Nature Magazine, an attack
on the government policy regarding the use of rodent poison 1080. 1080 has been
the proved cause of death of many thousand ducks, geese, deer and other animals
who have taken the poisoned grain left as bait for rodents. Since 1080 is a chain-
action poison, any animal eating an animal suffering from 1080 poisoning is almost
certain to die. Animals who have suﬁ‘ered from this are pet dogs, all wild carnivores
including skunks, coyotes, badgers and foxes, and also man. There is no known
antidote to 1080 poisoning. It is estimated that serious damage may be done to
our population of wild animals within a few years if no counter measures are
taken. Several already rare species are being threatened with extinction, including
the Golden Eagle and the Kit Fox. Other poisons, especially insecticides, which
are being sprayed from airplanes over enormous areas, are causing considerable
controversy. It has been suggested that these poisons cause genetic mutations in
wildlife and may cause cancer in man. A bill before Congress would appropriate
$2,565,000 for a study of the effects of these poisons upon ﬁsh and wildlife.**

 

*I—I.R..2725 became law Oil-September 8th. This took place after the period covered
in this. annual report but IS included because of its importance.
**Th1s bill passed Congress on September 10th.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Another conservation issue with which the Institute has been actively con-
cerned is the pollution of the seas with oil wastes. These wastes adhere to the
plumage of sea birds, causing their feathers to stick together so that the birds
cannot ﬂy, and therefore die of exposure and starvation. At a recent conference
of the International Council for Bird Preservation, Mr. Lester A. Giles, Jr. of the
American Humane Education Society, in association with Mr. John W. Mann of
the State Department, announced that an inter-departmental committee had unani-
mously adopted a draft report for submission to the Secretary of State, recom-
mending that the United States adopt the 1954 International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil. As the United States, with the USSR,
Poland, Italy, Panama and Liberia, is one of the few countries which have not
adopted the convention, this move on the part of the State Department is much

to be applauded.

Pending before Congress is the Wilderness Bill, a bill providing for the
protection of wild areas from special interest groups who are seeking to exploit
them and change their character. The Institute in its January-February Information
Report urged support of such legislation, as essential for the prevention of extinc-
tion of many species of wild animals.

Humane Trapping

The Victor-Conibear Trap, which kills rather than holding the animal in a
painful grip from which many seek to escape by gnawing off their own feet, has
been widely accepted by trappers. It has been further improved, and is now out-
selling the Stop- Loss Trap. The Victor- Conibear Trap is at present being tested
for use on larger animals. A representative of the Institute visited the bAnimal
Trap Companyb in Lititz, Pennsylvania, to observe the manufacture of the traps
and learn about the Company’s planning for them. The improvement in com-
mercial humane traps has encouraged many to support humane trapping legis‘ation,
which is now for the ﬁrst time becoming practicable. Humane trapping bills have
been'introduced in the Senate by Senator Richard L. Neuberger (D) of Oregon
and in the House by Representative William, S. Broomﬁeld (R) of Michigan.

The use of leg—hold traps became illegal in England this year.

Humane Slaughter

The Humane Slaughter Bill, which was passed by the House of Representatives
in February, 1958, was passed by the Senate in July, 1958, and became law on
August 27,1958. This law, which, it is estimated, will protect 90% of American
food animals, stipulates that all meat packers having government contracts must
use humane methods of slaughter in all of their plants by July, 1960. The passage
of this bill brought to a successful conclusion a three year campaign by humani-
tarians throughout the country.

In recognition of the great services they rendered by ﬁghting for this bill
in the Senate and in the House, the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal

 




 

Welfare Institute was awarded in 1958 to Senator Hubert H. Humphrey (D) of
Minnesota, and in 1959 to Representative W. R. Poage (D) of Texas.

After the passage of the federal law, several state laws were passed, which
will protect animals slaughtered by packers who do not have government contracts.
By June 30, state humane slaughter legislation had passed in Washington, Cal-
ifornia, Minnesota and Wisconsin, and others were pending. Humane slaughter
legislation was also pending in Canada.*

The United States Department of Agriculture issued clear and effective regu-
lations governing the humane slaughter law on February 26, 1959. Approved
methods include carbon dioxide anesthetization, mechanical stunning, the use of
firearms and electrical stunning. The regulations also govern the approach of the
animals to the slaughter pen, forbidding excessive use of electric prods or other
similar devices and requiring a smooth passageway free of projecting nails and
other injurious objects.

The new electrical stunning equipment developed by the Englehorn Packing
Company in Newark, New Jersey was inspected in operation by a representative
of the Institute.

During the year the Hormel Company perfected equipment for the anestheti-
zation of lambs, sheep and calves with carbon dioxide. The Company is the ﬁrst
nation-wide packer which is 100% humane for all species of livestock it slaughters.
It was Mr. L. W. Murphy of Hormel’s who invented carbon dioxide anesthetiza-
tion of hogs as a practical humane slaughter technique.

Improvement of Laboratory Animal Care and Housing

During the year the Institute continued to distribute information about animal
care and housing to scientists and technicians on request.

It has distributed to laboratories this year approximately 800 copies of ”Com-
fortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”, which is a loose—leaf manual designed
to guide institutions which are remodelling their animal quarters, or building
new ones. It reprints successful designs for animal quarters and describes the most
practicable and up-to-date equipment available. This year a third supplement was
published, including 1) plans of the new building of Smith, Kline & French Co.,
Philadelphia, which has radiant-heated kennels supplied with running water con-
necting with 12-foot long outside runways to which the dogs have access through-
out the daylight hours; 2) plans for dog quarters at the State University of Iowa
College of Medicine where inside kennels (which are equipped with resting
boards) measure 10’ x 5’ and connect with lateral roof runways; 3) drawings of
new dog quarters for the Academisch Ziekenhuis te Leiden, Holland, with indi-
vidual runways; 4) drawings showing economical use of roof space, providing for
dog houses (heated in winter) with sizeable runways which have broad overhang
for shade and shelter from rain; 5) metabolism cages designed by Professor A. N.

 

*The Canadian law was approved July 15, 1959 and the New Hampshire law ./*\115~3{USt

20, 1959.

 




 

Worden, measuring 4’ 61/8” x 6’ 7” x 4’ for dogs and 30” x 44” x 33” for cats;
6) photographs and drawings of cat quarters, University of Glasgow, Scotland,
Veterinary Hospital which provide both inside and outside accommodation; 7)
pictures of prefabricated panels for outdoor runways, which prevent possibility
of cross-infection, and a prefabricated self-operating dog door for access between
inside kennels and outside runways; 8) picture and description of short—term
monkey cage at Medical College of South Carolina; 9) pictures and diagram of
short-term chimpanzee quarters at Yerkes Laboratories of Primate Biology, Inc.
of Orange Park, Florida; 10) rat cage from Department of Hygiene, Kyoto Uni-
versity, Japan, the back of which consists of a solid metal box into which nesting
materials are placed; 11) pictures of two opaque plastic cages which provide the dark
retreat small rodents seek, while allowing for clear observations by plastic trans-
parent windows. This supplement was sent to all who had previously received
"Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”.

The companion manual, “Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, was revised
and enlarged last year; a German adaptation has also been published in Vienna.
Approximately 5,000 copies of the American edition were distributed to scientists
and scientiﬁc institutions last year. ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” was
recommended reading for United States Air Force medical and veterinary personnel
last year, and was reviewed in Air Force Pamphlet 160 - 15 - 2 ”Professional Book
and Journal List for Air Force Medical Facilities”. The Cornell Veterinarian also
published a highly favorable review of “Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, and
other notices appeared in the JOurnal of American Veterinary Medical Association,
Science News Letter, ”Catalogo de la Hemerobiblioteca” of the Department of
Physiology of the University School of Medicine, Mexico City; "Scientiﬁc Products”
and the Canadian Journal of Comparative Medicine and Veterinary Science.

Both manuals were distributed free on request to scientists and scientific insti-
tutions. Institutions can obtain a free copy of ”Basic Care of Experimental Ani-
mals” for every person they employ for the care of animals and for every medical
or veterinary student connected with the institution.

The Institute has also been distributing the revised edition of ”The UFAW
Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals”. This book,
which is published in England by the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare,
contains 951 pages, and gives a fuller and more technical accoiunt of the care,
housing and breeding of laboratory animals. It is available at a cost of $9.80.
The Journal of the American Medical Arieciatimz wrote of the Handbook:

”This second edition is a distinct contribution to the rapidly expanding area
of our knowledge concerning laboratory animals. . . The work as a whole is
probably the outstanding volume in print on the care of laboratory animals.”

Tbe Lancet wrote:

”A book which undoubtedly meets every need likely to arise. It is every-
where obvious that the main inspiration is the wish to keep lab-oratory animals
in health and comfort primarily in the interests of the animals, but with the
inevitable result that experimental work becomes more reliable. It would be

 




 

hard to overstate the importance of this book which should be looked on as a
compulsory purchase by all who undertake animal experiments; no other
single volume approaches it in value.”

The Institute has sold approximately 550 copies to scientists and scientiﬁc
institutions in this country since March, 1958.

The Institute has also been distributing to scientiﬁc institutions throughout
the country a British ﬁlm, ”Handling Laboratory Animals”, which was prepared
by MacQueen Films, in cooperation with the National Institute for Medical Re-
search. It is a 16 mm sound ﬁlm, demonstrating the correct handling of twelve
common species of laboratory animals, and may be rented for $3 per week or
purchased for $65.

The Institute’s bi-monthly Information Reports continue to carry numerous
articles on the subject of animal care and housing in laboratories; the Information.
Report is distributed to the 5,611 members of the FederatiOn of American Societies
for Experimental Biology, and to 6,389 other individuals and groups.

Conferences and Meetings Attended by Representatives
of the Animal Welfare Institute

The Animal Welfare Institute 1958 Annual Meeting, October 13,
held in New York. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, Schweitzer Medalist and
principal speaker, told of the battle to obtain enactment of humane slaughter
legislation. President Madeleine Bemelmans of the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, and Father Ambrose Agius of the Catholic Animal \X’elfare Society,
addressed the members.

Friends of Animals 1958 Annual Meeting, November 17, held in New
York. This new organization is devoted to the reduction of births of unwanted
puppies and kittens through spaying of pet animals. Its objective is strongly en-
dorsed by the Institute.

Animal Care Panel 1958 Annual Conference, December 3—5, held in
Chicago. Improvements in size and comfort of some of the animal housing on
exhibit was noted with approval.

National Society for Medical Research National Conference on
the Legal Environment of Medical Science, May 27-28, 1959, held in
Chicago. The Animal Welfare Institute representative sought to obtain a recom-
mendation against painful animal experiments by high school students, but was
unsuccessful.

Wilderness Conference, March 21, held in San Francisco. Resolutions in
favor of the Wilderness Bill. were passed.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute 1959 Annual Meeting, June 6, held in New
York. Representative W. R. Poage, Schweitzer Medallist and main speaker, em-
phasized the importance of humane education to buttress animal protective legis-
lation. In response to Mrs. Bemelmans’ talk on the pending bill to protect wild
animals, he pointed out that since they belong to the United States Government,
it is the duty of Congress to provide necessary protection against cruelty to them.
Mr. Robert Schmid, President of Friends of Animals, and Mr. Atwood McAndrew,
Jr., President of the Humane Society of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor, Michigan,
told the members brieﬂy about the work of their organizations.

Summary of Information Reports

In additional to the subjects speciﬁcally treated above, following are summaries
and excerpts of some of the material which appeared in the Information Reports:

“Animals and Children” was the title of an article, reprinted in
January-February Report from the British Veterinary Journal of Febru-
ary, 1959, which deplored the growing trend toward cruel animal experimen-
tation by young people. It pointed out: “Children are always anxious to
know more about their pets and in those schools in which the elementary
principles of structure and function are taught, the biology sessions are en-
joyed and serve a most useful purpose. There have been reports that, in
some schools and under the inﬂuence of enthusiastic teachers, the children’s
enquiries into the structure and function of their pet animal has been extended
so that they witness experiments on living animals and are encouraged to
pursue their researches at home. This is a thing to be deplored. Enthusiastic
teachers of this nature should satisfy their search for knowledge in other
spheres, i.e. in research institutions where they would work amongst mature
colleagues and under strict control. They should remember that children are
simply animals in the process of being trained to fit them for adult life.
Children have not a great fund of knowledge on which to draw and they
accept a teacher’s dictates as gospel. If the teacher can see no wrong in
children performing experiments on living animals then the natural conse-
quence is that the boys and girls will likewise accept this diction in all inno-
cence and it is. probable that their desire to keep a pet will not be excited
by the joys of love and companionship but, in order to test the reactions of
the poor dumb beast, by pseudo scientific methods.”

Criticism from a prominent educator, Dr. E. Laurence Palmer, Professor
Emeritus of Nature and Science Education at Cornell University, and Director of
Nature Education, the American Nature Association, appeared in the May-June
Report, in the form of an article reprinted from ”Nature Magazine”. Under the
heading ”A Question of Judgment”, Dr. Palmer discussed at length the experi-
ments described in ”STAR ’58”, and stated:

”I hope that our teacher training program never becomes dedicated to the
task of making even doctors into automatons with a wholly ‘impersonal and
objective attitude’ towards any warm-blooded animals. Certainly let us not
deliberately wipe out sympathy at the high school level.”

 




 

The use of tranquilizers to abate animal suffering was described in
the November-December and January-February issues. ”Diquel”, a tranquilizer for
cattle developed by Jensen-Salsbery Laboratories, was described as a simple means
of reducing fear and anxiety in cattle suddenly subjected to a series of strange,
uncomfortable and often painful experiences involved in loading, shipping, and
unloading; its use is expected to save the livestock industry as much as one hun-
dred million dollars a year by cutting handling costs and by preventing much of
the loss from bruises and from crippling and death in transit. The Report com-
mented: uIt is regrettable that scientiﬁc institutions have made so little progress
in adopting the use of tranquillizers and other drugs to reduce nervous tension,
discomfort or pain in the animals kept in laboratories.”

A comprehensive account of the campaign to obtain passage of a federal
humane slaughter bill was carried in the September-October Report, which told of
the various steps taken from the time of its introduction in 1935 to its signature
into law on August 27th.

The annual report of the National Society for Medical Research,
chief proponent of the animal seizure bills which seek to undermine humane
' societies, was discussed in an editorial in the November-December Information
Report. The National Society for Medical Research Report, by distorting facts in
the animal seiZure law controversy, implied that all who oppose are antivivisec-
tionists; it described as ”a vicious attack on animal research” the excellent factual
article by Paul W. Kearney, published by Coronet Magazine last year which called
for the reform, not abolition, of animal experimentation The Institutes Informa-
tion Report editorially stated: This failure to analyze the exact nature of the
opposition, in combination with the smear techniques already described, will not
lead to clear thinking on the problems of animal experimentation. . This stirring
up of emotionalism seems to us particularly deplorable in a pamphlet presented
as the annual report of a scientiﬁc society.”

“Where ShouId Laboratory Dogs Come From?” was the title of an
article in the May-June Information Report, which made clear the Institute’s
position on animal seizure legislation. The Report stated that the Institute has
never prevented any needed experiment from taking place by any means whatever,
and has never objected to purchase of animals from public pounds or to other
commercial transactions involving the buying of animals by laboratories. However,
it continued, the Institute does believe that ”legislation of the type sponsored by
the National Society for Medical Research to compel humane societies to release
animals from their shelters for use in laboratories for experimental work of all
types, regardless of the pain which might be inﬂicted, was morally wrong and
should be resisted by all available means ’ The Institute 5 position on procurement
programs, presented in its prospectus in 1951, was repeated: Procurement Pro-
grams: The survey of existing and proposed programs for the procurement of
laboratOry animals in an effort to discover the best method of satisfying the needs
of humanity in the advancement of medicine, public health, agriculture, etc., with-
out jeopardizing practical animal welfare work or the general advancement of

humanity through increasing consideration for all. living creatures.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

The pressure on animal protective societies, to force them to give up the
principles on which they were founded, very nearly succeeded in breaking the
hack of the humane movement, the Report concluded. ”In 1946 when the National
Society for Medical Research began its campaign, there were only two types of
societies of any strength or consequence which concerned themselves with cruelty
to animals: 1) societies which operated shelters (many of which had taken over
operation of pounds to prevent the cruelty formerly practiced there), and 2) anti-
vivisection societies. If the non—antivivisectionist societies could be used to procure
animals and their names used as an endorsement of limitless experimentation on
animals from their own shelters, then only the easy-to-discredit anti-vivisection
societies would be left; for the moral stature of the shelter societies would be lost
and no more than a shadowy memory of their original strength for combatting
cruelty would remain. It may not have been intentional, but the results of National
Society for Medical Research policy have been anti-humane rather than anti-anti-
vivisectionist. In at least one city where an animal seizure law is in effect, one has
only to walk down the street seeking the owner of a lost puppy to have one ordinary
person after another warn, “Whatever you do, don’t take the pup to the SPCA’”.

The conclusion of the case of cruelty to laboratory dogs, involving
a Massachusetts research doctor and his animal caretaker, was reported in the
September-October issue. After having earlier appealed the charge of cruelty to
dogs which had undergone major heart surgery and tests on the heart-lung machine,
both doctor and caretaker pleaded guilty and paid ﬁnes.

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg David Ricardo Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

OFFICERS
Christine Stevens, President ' Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary ' Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richard's, Asst. Treas.

 




 




SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

Sleeping pig emerging from a carbon dioxide
anesthetizing tunnel.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
NewYork 3, N. Y.

 




 

(Cover picture courtesy Geo. A. Hormel & Co.)

 

 

A,_h

 




 

 

 

4_-_.__t‘-m

SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N. Y.
(July 1, 1957, to June 30, 1958)

The year 1957-58 was a lucky year for animals in the United States. Three
major events took place which cannot fail to help reduce cruelty in the coming
years:

1) Legislation requiring the use of humane methods of slaughter was passed.

2) The biggest trap company in the world put an instant-killing trap into
production with the announcement that this is the ﬁrst practical humane
trap ever to be invented.

3) A national magazine of large circulation printed an honest and hard-hitting
account on the need to prevent unnecessary cruelty to experimental animals.

The work of the Animal Welfare Institute in relation to these and other less
spectacular animal protective activities is summarized below. I .

Humane Slaughter

On February 4, 1957 a Federal humane slaughter bill was passed by the US.
House of Representatives by voice vote. The legislation, which will protect about
90% of the food animals slaughtered annually in the United States, provides that
any packer wishing to sell meat to the Federal Government must use humane
methods of slaughter on all animals in all his plants. The bill was sponsored
by Rep. W. R. Poage (D., Texas), (Chairman of the Sub-Committee which had
held extensive hearings the previous April, following visits to slaughterhouses in
various parts of the country. Mr. Poage led the ﬁght in the House roundly de-
feating opponents who sought to substitute an ineffective “study” bill.

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey (D., Minn), ﬁrst sponsor of humane slaughter
legislation, immediately amended his pending bill to be identical with the Poage
bill in order to facilitate passage by the Senate.

Despite the fact that public hearings on compulsory humane slaughter legis-
lation had already been held in 1956 before a subcommittee of the Committee on
Agriculture and Forestry of the Senate, further hearings were held by that Com-
mittee from April 28 to May 1, 1958. On June 18, the Committee, whose chair-
man, Sen. Ellender of Louisiana, was a vigorous opponent of the legislation, voted
to substitute a study bill which the packers wanted to see enacted as a hedge against
effective legislation.*

*However, the Senate overrode its Committee, defeated the study bill by a vote of 40-43,

and passed the House bill by a vote of 72-9. The bill was signed into law on August
27, 1958. This took place after the period covered in this annual report but is included
because of its importance.

[ 1]

 




 

The Institute, which has worked in all ways possible since 1952 to encourage
the adOption of humane slaughter methods, was represented at both the 1957
House hearings and the 1956 and 1958 Senate hearings. Written testimony was
submitted, (extra copies of which may be obtained by writing to the Animal Wel-
fare Institute ofﬁce) and Arthur P. Redman’s film on hog slaughtering made
available to both House and Senate Agriculture Committees. Only the former,
however, was willing to see the horrible facts it presented so plainly. The cover
picture of this report depicts the humane alternative: peacefully sleeping pigs
anesthetized with carbon dioxide before slaughter.

Supplementing the outstanding efforts of Senator Humphrey and Congressman
Poage in obtaining passage of the law was the great popular demand for the
legislation (which brought more mail to Washington than any other issue in the
past two years) and the overwhelming support given by the press throughout the
country. Editorials in all of the best papers spoke out in strong terms demanding
effective legislation. The unanimity of feeling expressed by newspapers of different
political opinion was an unusual phenomenon and one for which humanitarians
can be deeply grateful. The power and basic decency of our free press was dem-
onstrated in a perfectly clear-cut manner. '

Humane Trapping

A major development in the campaign to eliminate the extreme cruelty which
has been inﬂicted on fur-bearing animals for the past 300 years is the invention
of a new instant-killing humane trap by Frank Conibear of British Columbia. Mr.
Conibear’s efforts to produce a ﬁrst-rate humane trap covered a. 28-year period,
during a considerable part of which he earned a living by trapping. The fully
documented account of this new trap, by Eric Collier, President of the British
Columbia Registered Trappers Association, appeared in the September and October
issues of "Outdoor Life”, a magazine of wide circulation among hunters and trap-
pers. (Copies are available free on request from the Institute.) Mr. Collier made
clear his belief that professional trappers will welcome this practical humane equip-

ment, which is now available in this country and Canada from the Animal Trap
Comp-any, Lititz, Pennsylvania.

A bill to require the use of humane methods of trapping animals and ‘birds
on lands and waterways under the jurisdiction of the United States was introduced
in the United States Senate on July 8, 1957 by Senators Richard L. Neuberger
(D., Oregon), Hubert H. Humphrey and Estes Kefauver (D., Tenn), and in
the House of Representatives by Congressman William S. Broomfield (R., Mich).

No hearings were held upon the measure, but it is hoped that favorable action
will be taken in the next session of Congress.

[2]

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Schweitzer Medal

A great contribution to the advancement of laboratory animal welfare was
the publication of Paul W. Kearney’s forceful article concerning animals» used in
research, ”The Case for Humane Vivisection”, which appeared in the November
issue of Coronet Magazine. In this article, Mr. Kearney made clear the urgent
need for the reform, as distinct from the abolition, of animal experimentation.
He cited many examples of unnecessary animal suffering in laboratories. For
example, he wrote: ”One is entitled to question the necessity for a Boston labora-
tory, while studying the causes of human deaths by ﬁre—to burn live pigs, to
death in gasoline ﬂames. And to wonder if the researchers would have learned
any less if the animals had been anesthetized.”

A series of descriptions of laboratories in leading scientiﬁc institutions, where
animals were conﬁned to cramped, wet, dirty quarters, suffering from. disease and
lack of care, was included in the article, as were reports on painful experiments
carried out for commercial purposes and on some of the cruel animal experiments
which many children have recently been encouraged to carry out in school or at
home. ”Such outlandish practices,” Mr. Kearney commented, "simply emphasize
the extent to which we Americans have blindly turned ‘scientiﬁc research’ into a
fetish, with the result that there is today virtually no limitation on what any Tom,
Dick or Harry with a kitchen knife can do to an animal so long as he wraps it
in the protective cloak of ‘scientiﬁc research’.”

In concluding, he stated that he offered no ready-made solution, but wished
both scientists and the public at large to recognize: “the very real and [urgent issue
of Humanity vs. Inhumanity in the use of animals for experimental purposes.”

In recognition of his contribution to animal welfare, Mr. Kearney was awarded
the third Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute, at its annual
meeting, October 24, 1957.

New Edition of Basic Care of Experimental Animals

Revision of the Institute’s manual, “Basic Care of Experimental Animals,”
which is provided without charge to scientiﬁc institutions, was completed in January
and enlarged from 36 to 68 pages. The revision was made with the assistance
of Mr. George Porter of the Laboratory Animals Bureau (Medical Research Council
Of Great Britain), who was given a three-months leave of absence for the purpose.
Mr. Porter has worked closely with the Animal Technicians Associations in Great
Britain, and is the author of Technical Notes for the L.’ A. B. as well as a chapter
for the new second edition of the ”UFAW Handbook on the Care and Manage-
ment of Laboratory Animals.”

[3]

 




 

 

 

The new edition of ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” was undertaken
. on the basis of a survey requesting expressions of opinion and new information
from users of the first edition (7,500 copies) which had been exhausted. The
survey showed much appreciation of the usefulness of the manual. Among major
additions were appendices on nutrition and transportation of laboratory animals,
more comprehensive information on «breeding, and reference tables giving data
of assistance in determining the state of the animals’ health.

"Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, now in use in 46 States and 38 foreign
countries, has been translated into German this year. (A Japanese edition was
published in 1956.) Copies of the revised edition may be obtained from the Insti-
‘tute free upon request by scientific institutions, in sufficient number so that every
person employed in the care of animals and every medical or veterinary medical
student may have an individual copy.

Speaker On Laboratory Animal Care

In addition to working on the revision of ”Basic Care of Experimental Ani-
mals”, Mr. Porter, under the auspices of the Institute, visited scientific institutions
in various parts of the country; at a number he conducted seminars on the proper
care and treatment of laboratory animals. Institutions and organizations by which
he was invited to speak during his stay included: Institute of Laboratory Animal
Resources, Plum Island Animal Disease Laboratory, Medical School of the University
of Florida, University of Miami Medical School, New York Branch of the Animal
Care Panel, Medical College of South Carolina, Emory University Medical School,
Georgetown University Medical College, University of Michigan Medical School,
Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine, Animal Care Panel
(annual meeting at San Francisco), University of California Medical School at
Los Angeles, University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Texas State Health
Department, Schering Corporation Laboratories, Brown University and Jackson
Memorial Laboratory.

Before returning to England on December 13, Mr. Porter also visited 32
other institutions.

Distribution of Information on the Care of Laboratory Animals

In its constant efforts to improve laboratory animal care and housing, the
Institute continued to provide advice concerning animal quarters, and to distribute
practical manuals free to experimental laboratories. The manual, “Comfortable
Quarters for Laboratory Animals,” provides good designs to institutions planning
new quarters or the remodelling of existing buildings. ”Basic Care of Experimental
Animals”, described above, is written simply and illustrated so that it may be
useful to the individual animal handler.

[4]

 




g 1..

’

 

The Institute also sells the new edition of "The UFAW Handbook on the Care
and Management of Laboratory Animals,” published by the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare (951 pp., $9.80); and distributes the 16 mm. sound ﬁlm.
”Handling Laboratory Animals” produced by MacQueen Films, in cooperation
with the National Institute of Medical Research in England. This shows goo-d
handling of 12 common species of laboratory animals, and is available to labora-
tories for purchase at $65 or rental at $3 a week. The bi-monthly Information
Reports, which have carried numerous articles on animal care and housing, are
distributed to all 5311 members of the Federation of American Societies for Ex-
perimental Biology and to 2804 other scientiﬁc establishments or individuals.

Humane Education

In the ﬁeld of humane education, the Institute continued to emphasize the
need to develop kind attitudes toward animals and discourage cruel and callous
attitudes among young people. The Institute repeatedly voiced opposition to painful
animal experiments being increasingly conducted by students in primary and
secondary schools. Encouraged by Science Fairs, grants from the National Science
Foundation, and organizations which offer cash prizes and scholarships, young
people have undertaken experiments which are cruel to animals and demoralizing
for the children themselves.

To help counteract this anti-humane trend, the Institute in 1955 published a
manual for teachers ”First Aid and Care of Small Animals”. Requests for free
copies continue to be received each month from all parts of the country. One
copy is sent free to any teacher upon request; in the case of teacher colleges, sufﬁ~
cient copies are sent so that each prospective teacher may have one. During the
past year, 8500 copies were distributed.

Summary of Information Reports

In addition to articles on subjects speciﬁcally treated above, the Information
Reports told of the following:‘

Recognition of the Vital importance of proper care, housing and
handling of experimental dogs, and of the use of proper surgical techniques,
was given in the excellent article ”Some Elements of Error in Experimental Sur-
gery”, reprinted in the March-April Report. It was written by Dr. J. J. P'érez-
Alvarez, of the Instituto Nacional de Cardiologia of Mexico City, for the February
issue of "Surgery”. Stressing the need for observation, treatment, vaccination,
a~dt.‘qu£1te feeding and proper post-operative care by trained personnel, Dr. Pérez
stated: ”All the value of the experiment, all the time and effort of the personnel,
all the material used, and all the money represented may have been wasted if this

[5]

 




 

is not done. Again the need for proper housing of the animals and for the trained
personnel who must dedicate enough time to the care of them and who must have
available means to care for the animals properly are essential. it may be argued
that all this is expensive. Yes, progress is expensive but necessary, and in the ﬁnal
analysis it is cheaper to do a thing right once than to do many things wrong many

times.”

An article on “Care of the Laboratory Dog”, in the November-December
Report, was written by Mr. George Porter toward the end of his stay in this
country, following his visits to various research institutions.

A case of extreme cruelty to laboratory dogs, which resulted in con-
viction of a research doctor and his animal caretaker, was described in the May-
]une Report. After bodies of four dogs, showing signs of recent operations,
were found in a pond near Franklin, Massachusetts on March 50, the Report
stated, investigation disclosed that dogs of the Overholt Clinic in Boston, which
had undergone major heart surgery and tests on the heart-lung machine, were
being maintained in filth and being fed garbage. The doctor who performed the
operations, Dr. Fred Panico, had never taken the time to visit his animal quarters,
but expressed satisfaction at the condition of the animals when they were brought
to him, although others who saw them were horrified at their emaciation. The
Report pointed out that Dr. Pani-co’s attitude in this respect is typical of far too
many research workers who are profoundly interested in their work, but totally
indifferent to their experimental subjects, and commented: “The point which the
Animal Welfare Institute hopes will be driven home to all honorable scientists is
that the Dr. Panicos of medical research do not care how their animals are housed
and cared for. Whether it be mud and garbage, or wire mesh and pellets, whether
the dogs are totally neglected or whether they receive a daily hosing along with
their cages by callous attendants, it is all one to this type of research worker.”

Massachusetts recently enacted an animal seizure bill on the strength of state-
ments by the Massachusetts Society for Medical Research and others that experi-
mental animals receive treatment comparable to that given humans and that every
consideration is given to their bodily comfort. The President of the Massachusetts
Society for Medical Research gave a press interview on November 5, 19.57 in
which he described himself as an animal lover and assured the public of Laika’s
health and safety in outer space and of the Russians’ intention to bring the dog
back to earth. An article in the November-December Report emphasized the
alarming gap between fact and fancy in these and other Medical Research Society
statements.

Gross cruelty and neglect of dogs, in Japanese laboratories, were
cited in the March-April Report, which carried a series of pictures taken in WC

[6]

”l‘




 

 

of Tokyo’s largest laboratories, together with a report on conditions in these
laboratories made by the Secretary of the Japan Animal Welfare Society. He stated:
"None of the animals kept in these ﬁlthy cages are ever allowed out for exercise;
food and water is practically non-existent, and were it not for the visits. of our
ladies these wretched creatures would literally starve to death. Pre-and post-
operative care is unknown here, and many of the poor animals die from ex-
posure. . The picture in Japan is not all bad, the Report commented; new
and well designed quarters for experimental rats and dogs have been built at Kyoto
University which might well serve as a model for other Japanese laboratories. Also,
the Japan Animal Welfare Society is providing large amounts of barbiturates for
anesthesia for the laboratories and for euthanasia in the pounds where the animals
were formerly killed painfully with strychnine.

Reviews of “The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion”
by Major C. W. Hume of The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare were
reprinted in the September-October Report. ”The Strategy and Tactics of Experi-
mentation”, an article written by Major Hume for “The Lancet”, was distributed
to readers of the Information Report with the November-December Report. (Extra
copies are still available from the Institute’s ofﬁces.)

“Progress in Animal Technician Training” was the title of on article
in the September-October Report, which told of the establishment of comprehensive
animal-caretaker training programs in two major scientiﬁc institutions in New York
~the Roswell Park Memorial Institute at Buffalo and the Berg Institute of New
York University-Bellevue Medical Center at New York City. At the Berg Institute,
the Report stated, the course was designed for supervisory personnel from numerous
scientiﬁc institutions and commercial breeders, because it was felt that such men
were in the best position to institute training in their own establishments; at Roswell
Park, a similar course is open to staff members and required of animal caretakers
and handlers. An article describing this course, written by Dr. Albert R. Shadle,
was reprinted in the September-October Report.

“The Role of Tranquilizers in the Humane Treatment of Animals”,
an article written by Dr. A. H. Quin of Jensen-Salsbery Laboratories, appeared in
the March-April Report. Through selective usage of much-publicized tranquilizer
drugs now widely prescribed by the medical profession, Mr. Quin stated, “a new
era is opening up in the humane handling of all types of animals.” He told of their
routine use in small and large animal practices, and said extensive ﬁeld trials are
underway in tranquilizing cattle during shipment by truck and train.

Adoption of a Humane Resolution by a United Nations Conference
was described in the May-June Report. The resolution states: ”The United Nations
Conference on the Law of the Sea requests States to prescribe, by all means available
to them, those methods for the capture and killing of marine life, especially of
Whales and seals, which will spare them suffering to the greatest extent possible.”

{7]

 




 

 

“Callousness Encouraged by Wrong Kind of Science Teaching”,
was the title of an article in the January-February Report. It told of the cruel
behavior of a high school science teacher and students who shot off a home-made
rocket containing a live mouse. The article quoted in full the editorial on the sub-
ject by the New York Herald Tribune, which concluded: ”If increased interest in
science is to lead merely to greater callousness the-world will not have moved ahead.”

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for
the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s much
needed work depends upon such support.

i Bequests to the Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to
protect animals. Please remember the Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest:

l I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of ............ dollars (or
if other property, describe the property).

The Institute’s address is 22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg David Ricardo Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

 

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

[8]




 

xetilfll» iii/III

 

 




 

 

 




     
     

FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT

   

Dr. Albert Schweitzer With Animal Welfare Institute Medal
created in his honor.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
350 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
350 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York

(July 1, 1954 to June 3-0, 1955)

Publications

A loose leaf book containing a collection of floor plans construction details, and
equipment, and entitled Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals,” was pre-
pared by the Animal Welfare Institute for use by institutions planning to remodel or
re- -equip existing, animal quarters or to build new ones. During the course of the
year, free copies have been provided, on request, to medical colleges, hospitals, gov-
ernment and commercial laboratories, libraries and architectural and construction
ﬁrms engaged in designing animal quarters. Requests for this publication have
come from 35 states, five Canadian provinces, Hawaii, the Canal Zone, the District
of Columbia and the following foreign countries: Australia, England, Finland,
Germany, India, Italy, Lebanon, Mexico, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Yugo-
slavia.

The loose-leaf form was adopted so that supplements could be provided from
time to time as new ideas are presented for quarters which are comfortable and not
too restrictive for the animals and which are easy to maintain. "Comfortable Quarters
for Laboratory Animals” first appeared in September, 1954, and a supplement was
mailed out in January, 1955 to all who had received the original publication. Re-
views in ”Modern Hospital” and “American Society for Professional Biologists
News” were helpful in bringing it to the attention of interested persons. The Insti-
tute also wishes to acknowledge the assistance of ”The American Journal of Medical
Technology, and Modern Hospital” in publicizing Basic Care of Experimental
Animals” , a companion manual published 1n 1953 by the Institute, which gives in-
formation on disease prevention and the proper feeding, handling, housing, breed-
ing and euthanasia of laboratory animals. Visits to laboratories have been valuable
in compiling information for these publications and during the past year Animal
“Welfare Institute representatives have visited laboratories in California, the District
of Columbia, Florida, Georgia. Kentucky, Michigan and New York.

The ﬁrst Animal Welfare Institute publication designed for use in primary and
secondary schools has been in preparation throughout the course of the past year.
"First Aid and Care of Small Animals” by Ernest P. Walker, Assistant Director of
the National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution, will be a 48- page booklet con-
taining 26 illustrations. Mr. Walker is a distinguished zoologist with a sympathetic
understanding of the needs and desires of a wide variety of animals and with long
experience with wild creatures both 1n their native habitats and in captivity. His text
and photographs are outstanding. All primary and secondary school teachers may
obtain one free copy of the booklet by writing the Institute.

 




 

The bi-monthly Information Reports of the Institute were distributed through-
out the year (except July and August) to all members of the American Federation
of Societies for Experimental Biology, to humane societies, libraries in major cities,
and institutions of higher learning, and to numerous medical, veterinary medical and
other scientiﬁc groups and individuals. A summary of these Information Reports is
to be found elsewhere in this annual report.

The Schweitzer Medal

On November 3, 1954 a gold replica of the medal created in his honor by the
Animal Welfare Institute was presented to Dr. Albert Schweitzer. Dr. Charles R.
Joy made the presentation in Oslo where Dr. Schweitzer had gone to receive the
Nobel Prize for Peace. Mrs. Erica Anderson, whose recent book ”The World of Al-
bert Schweitzer” contains many of her beautiful photographs, took pictures of the
ceremony, one of which appears on the cover of this annual report.

At the annual meeting of the American Association for the Avancement of
Science in Berkeley, California this winter, the medal was displayed in an Animal
Welfare Institute booth exhibit. It was flanked by pictures of Dr. Schweitzer in his
hospital in Lambaréné, French Equatorial Africa, with various animal companions,
and by quotations from his writings emphasizing his belief that ”We need a bound-
less ethics which will include the animals also.”

Nomination forms were available at the booth and were also mailed to all read-
ers of the Information Report in order to give each one an opportunity to suggest
the name of the person whom they considered worthy to receive the ﬁrst Schweitzer
Medal. Announcement that the medal is to be awarded on September 8, 1955 at
Michigan State University in East Lansing in conjunction with the meetings of the

American Institute of Biological Sciences was made in the May-June Information
Report.

Humane Slaughter ‘

There are three practical, humane methods of rendering animals unconscious
before suspending them by a chain around one hind leg and cutting their throats.
Therefore no reasonable excuse exists for continuing to carry out this cruel practice
on conscious animals. The majority of hogs, calves, sheep and lambs in this country
are still killed by this antiquated method. The usual method of stunning cattle fre-

quently requires that the slaughterman administer blow after blow of the hammer
before the animal falls.

A carbon dioxide chamber, electrical stunning tongs, or captive bolt pistol should
be used in every slaughterhouse.

The Animal. Welfare Institute has sought, by means of articles published in its

 

 

 




 

 

 

Information Reports and through correspondence with packers and others, to stimu-
late interest in the use of humane slaughtering devices. An appeal for funds for the
purchase of such equipment was made in February of this year, and an electrical
stunner of English manufacture was sent to Michigan State University for testing.
The Institute is indebted to “Science” for publishing an announcement on this sub-
ject. It is likewise indebted to the Christian Science Monitor for its June 13, 1955
editorial on the need for humane slaughter, later reprinted in numerous other news-
papers, and to the many members and friends of the Institute and of other animal
protective societies who have written letters to newspapers on the subject.

The federal humane slaughter bills introduced by Senator Humphrey and Rep-
presentative Martha Grifﬁths at the request of the American Humane Association
failed to come to a hearing in this session of Congress. All humanitarians need to
work together to eliminate the large-scale, routine cruelty in slaughterhouses which
has been proved to be completely unnecessary by the nine European democracies
which prohibit the killing of food animals without preliminary stunning.

Conventions, Meetings and Exhibitions

Animal Welfare Institute Auxiliary Meeting, Toledo, Ohio, September 22, 1954
Federation of Pennsylvania Humane Societies, Wilkes—Barre, Penna. Sept. 24, 1954
Animal Welfare Institute annual meeting, New York City, Oct. 15, 1954

American Humane Association convention, Atlanta, (3a., Oct. 25-28, 1954

Tri—State Federation of Humane Societies, Washington, D.C., Nov. 28, 1954

Animal Care Panel, Chicago, 111., Dec. 1-2, 1954

American Association for Advancement of Science, Berkeley, Calif., Dec. 26-31, 1954

A.H.A. Advisory Committee, Denver, Colo., March 4-5, 1955

Sports and Vacation Show, New York City, March 5-13, 1955

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare Executive Committee meeting, London,

England, April 15, 1955

Summary of Information Reports

The Information Reports of the Institute continued t6 stress the need for rais-
ing standards in the h0using, care and treatment of laboratory animals for the sake
of the animals and also for the sake of scientiﬁc accuracy.

The necessity of improving transportation conditions for the hun—
dreds of thousands of monkeys used annually in research in this country, a
number which is increasing astronomically due to the production of polio vaccine,
was stressed. Two eye-witness reports of monkey shipments from India arriving at
Idlewild Airport, New York, which appeared in the January—February Report, told
of unnecessary cruelty—overcrowding, rough handling, ﬁlthy containers, inadequate

 




 

feeding, shipment of pregnant females and nursing mothers. The Institute urged
that animals being sacriﬁced for human beneﬁt be treated at least as well as, if not
better than, animals being sent to zoos and to individual private owners, and sug-
gested that a part of the money so generously donated by the American public might
very properly be spent in reducing the wholly unnecessary suffering now being in-
flicted on monkeys used for polio research and vaccine production.

The March—April Report listed various steps taken to improve conditions of
monkey shipments. At the request of ofﬁcials of the Bureau of Customs (which is
responsible for the enforcement of Public Law #72 making it a criminal offense
to import animals or birds into this country under inhumane or unhealthful condi-
tions), the Institute submitted recommendations on proper shipping conditions for
monkeys and on April 13, a new order on the subject of inhumane or unhealthful
shipments of animals was issued to all Customs Inspectors in the New York area.
The Government of India, on March 10, placed an embargo on the export of mon—
keys, which was lifted April 5 following assurances by the National Foundation for
Infantile Paralysis that there would be greater safeguards for monkeys during their
ﬂight to the United States.

Four papers on the proper care of monkeys in captivity were presented at the
1954 Animal Care Panel, held December 1 and 2 at Northwestern University, Chi-
cago, and reported in the January-February issue. Dr. H. L. Ratcliife of the Phila-
delphia Zoological Garden emphasized the need for more space and exercise, and
illustrated his talk with slides showing the relative atrophy of the adrenal cortex in
monkeys which had been conﬁned to small laboratory cages or to small shipping
crates during the course of a long. sea voyage. Dr. Albert V. Hardy of the Florida
State Board of Health, who was asked to assist in reducing disease in monkeys at
Okatie Farms, headquarters for monkeys purchased by the National Foundation for
Infantile Paralysis, reported that enteric infections and pneumonia are the chief
problems, and the mortality of .the monkeys is a serious economic problem. Dr. Hardy
said, “As a measure of economy, more could be invested by the Foundation in hav-
ing qualiﬁed medical care of the animals .. . much more could be done and should
be done.”

Another highlight of the Animal Care Panel was a ﬁlm showing the housing,
feeding and care of experimental animals at the National Institute for Medical Re-
search at Mill Hill, England. The commentary was given by Mr. D. J. Short, Chair-
man of the Animal Technicians Association, who supervises the work of a large

group of animal technicians there and is himself especially gifted in gentle and skill-
ful animal handling. A

The importance of gentleness and kindness when handling animals
was also emphasized in a speech entitled ”Farm Animals Need Love and Care”, re-
printed in the May-June Report. The speech was given by Dr. W. N. McMillen, Di-
rector of Nutrition of the A. E. Staley Manufacturing Company, who has had wide
experience with both farm and laboratory animals. He gave numerous striking ex-

amples of the material beneﬁts accruing to people who are friendly and considerate




‘Qé

in caring for animals of all kinds, from mice to cattle, and spoke against the tend-
ency to make livestock production a mechanical assembly-line business.

Humane education for medical students was the subject of an article in
the September-October Report. An excerpt was printed from a recently published
treatise for students of human physiology at the University of British Columbia Med-
ical College, which emphasizes humane handling of animals prior to anesthetization
and requires that animals must be killed while still anesthetized and unconscious and
that animals must be dead before disposal. Recognizing the importance of proper use
of animals in medical teaching and research, it states: ”Use of these animals is a privi-
lege involving the same responsibilities as are involved in the case of patients in the
teaching wards of the hospital.” The treatise also refers to the cooperative agree-
ment entered into in 1951 between the University of British Columbia and the Van-
couver Branch of the British Columbia SPCA intended to serve two major purposes:
(1) to advance the welfare of laboratory animals and prevent cruelty to them and
(2) to provide for painless experiments (under full anesthesia from which they are
not permitted to recover) ‘dogs which would otherwise be destroyed at the City Pound.
(The agreement was described and the principles agreed to by the University were
published in Information Report Volume 2:3.)

Two examples of excellent housing for large experimental animals
were cited in the September-October and November-December Reports. At the Na—
tional Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, the new quarters which provide
ﬁne outdoor exercise facilities, the opportunity for companionship, efﬁciency in clean-
ing and maintenance, and good ventilation are well worth a visit by persons plan-
ning new accommodations for experimental animals. Groups of monkeys have large,
light rooms with radiant-heated ﬂoors and wooden benches; self-operating doors
lead to outdoor exercise pens, half of which are roofed over with wire glass, the other
half being open except for fencing. In the animal hospital section, dogs, goats and
hogs have inside kennels connecting directly with outside runways; the kennels are
5 x 10 feet, the runways 16 and 25 feet long x 5 feet wide. In that part of the new
building designed for housing dogs on long-term experiments, 25-foot runways have
been provided for each kennel.

The second example cited was Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta,
Georgia, where a new building for large animals provides roomy indoor kennels
connecting directly with outdoor runways to which the animals may go at will. The
kennels will be provided with resting boards for the comfort of the dogs and mon-
keys to be housed. Plans of the new animal house at Emory are available for distri-
bution as a part of the loose-leaf publication ”Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory
Animals.”

An article of interest to those who work with laboratory rats was contained in
the September-October Report. Excerpts were given from an article entitled ”An
Experiment to Show the Effect of Strong Light on Lactating Female Rats” (Journal
of the ATA, Vol. IV, No. 5) by R. T. Charles of the Radiobiological Research
Unit, M.R.C., A.E.R.E., Harwell, Berks. Mr. Charles said that the mortality rate,
which was 8.0% for young pups being born and raised in wire cages on grid ﬂoors
in a brightly lighted room, was reduced to less than 1% when sawdust was substi-

 




 

tuted for grid ﬂoors, some privacy was provided, and the rat-room kept in semi-
darkness. A comment on Mr. Charles’ report, conﬁrming the detrimental effect of
strong light and the desirability of providing nest boxes for rats, was made by
Patricia Worodhead, Pharmacology Department, British Schering Research Institute,
Alderly Edge, Cheshire (ATA Journal Vol. V, No. 1). An excerpt of Miss Wood-
head’s comments also appeared in the September-October Report.

An evaluation gilfheplfritish Law governing' animal experimenta-
tion was the subject on aApa‘per quoted in the November-December Report; the au-
thor was Dr. William Lane-Fetter, who is well known to British scientists as the Di-
rector of the Laboratory Animals Bureau, an organization which has made great pro-
gress in providing better-bred, healthier and better-cared-for animals for laboratory
use. Dr. Lane-Petter stated that the British law, passed in 1876, provides for a system
of personal licensing for those who wish to experiment on living vertebrate animals
and of registration of premises where such experiments, are conducted. It also pro-
vides for inspection by government inspectors. Dr. Lane-Petter said, ”On the whole,
the act has been a good one, despite certain clumsy administrative points. If it has,
through the machinery of licensing, added a paper burden to the scientist, it has also
held an umbrella over his head . .. Has the Act, which places a powerful veto in the
hands of a government department, hindered scientiﬁc advance? Practically all who
have worked under the Act would answer no. At the worst it has been a nuisance,
but rather in the sense of having to pay an insurance premium. At the best, it has
given effect to that principle ﬁrst put forward by scientists themselves, that there
are limits to the legitimacy of painful experiments on animals.”

Continued opposition of the humane movement to animal seizure
bills which seek to compel humane societies to abandon ethical principles by turn-
ing over animals to laboratories for use in painful experimentation was voiced by
the delegates to the 1954 annual convention of the American Humane Association,
and reported in the November-December issue. Delegates to the convention again
expressed themselves strongly in opposition to animal seizure legislation, and elected
as directors three extremely well qualiﬁed humanitarians who expressed unequivocal
opposition to such legislation.

The increasing demand for humane methods of slaughter was also
discussed at the A.H.A. convention, and reported in the November-December issue.
Many delegates to the convention were shocked to learn that in the ﬁeld of humane
slaughter, the United States is far behind England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, New
Zealand, Holland, Switzerland, Finland, Norway, Denmark and Sweden. In all of
these countries, the law requires that animals be humanely killed. A ﬁlm depicting
the present cruel method used for slaughtering hogs in the majority of abattoirs on
this continent was shown the delegates, and addresses were given on the problems
relating to the advancement of humane slaughter in this country.

Developments in the humane slaughter movement in various parts of the coun—
try were listed in the January-February Report. In the March-April Report, the intro-
rroduction of a federal bill by Senator Humphrey of Minnesota was announced. In
introducing his bill, which would require the use of humane methods in the slaughter

 

 

 




 

 

 

of livestock and poultry in interstate or foreign commerce, Senator Humphrey urged
our slaughter industry to start to reach European standards at once, and eventually
to lead the nations of the world in humane, non-cruel slaughtering.

An important aid to humane slaughter invented at a Missouri packing-house
was announced in the March-April Report. The new method, devised at the Seitz
Packing Company, St. Joseph, Missouri, is an example of American inventive talent
at its best: simple, inexpensive, practical and humane. For many years the captive
bolt pistol has proved itself a perfect agent for causing instantaneous unconscious-
ness in the animal on which it is used. However, it is necessary for the operator to
to be able to take careful aim and for this purpose a quiet animal is needed. The
Seitz Company has solved the problem of keeping cattle still without holding devices
by the use of ﬂood lights. A speech by the President of the Company, describing
the process, was reprinted in the March-April Report.

Further news of humane slaughter, including the introduction by Martha Grif-
ﬁths of a companion bill in the United States House of Representatives, was con-
tained in the May-June Report. The report also announced the installation by Hormel
& Co., in its Fremont, Nebraska, plant, of equipment by which hogs are anesthetized
with CO-2 before slaughter. This method, which was invented and first used at
Horme’l’s main plant in Austin, Minnesota and which was described and illustrated
in Information Report Volume 2~1 was highly praised by Senator Humphrey at the
time he introduced his federal bill.

The AIbert Schweitzer M eda], to be awarded annually with $500 in rec-
ognition of an outstanding contribution by a research scientist to the reduction of
laboratory animal suffering, was pictured and announced in the November-December
Report and further announcements were carried in the January-February and May-
June Reports.

A growing animal-protective and chiId-protective problem, over
which humanitarians have become increasingly concerned in recent years, was the
subject of an article in the May-June Report. It is the widespread use of animals for
experimentation in elementary and high schools, and by high school students in their
homes. Encouraged by donors of national science contest prizes and others, youths
of high school age engage in activities which are cruel to animals as well as detri—
mental to their own character. Even younger children take part in nutrition “experi-
ments” encouraged by several manuals and publications issued by other groups.

The report gave the opinion of a clinical and consulting psychologist and psycho-
therapist, Dr. Portia Hamilton, concerning the effects of such activities on children,
pointing out the dangers of exposing them to such projects and warning against the
possibility of increasing the child’s natural hostilities or aggressive tendenc1es and
effectively laying the basis for sadistic behavior. The Report reprinted an excellent

 




 

column by Dorothy Thompson on this subject entitled ”Children’s ‘Experiments’
with Animals Condemned” in which she stated: "What is being done in the class-
rooms is not scientiﬁc experimentation and it adds nothing to knowledge. The teach-
ers know in advance the results of the mistreatment and so will many intelligent
children. It is, therefore, systematic training in cruelty and indifference to suffer-
ing . . . Anything which encourages cruelty and indifference in the young is evil and
profoundly anti-educational. It is bringing up the child in the way he should not
go. It is demonstrating to him that it is all right to mistreat nonhuman living crea-
tures, if the mistreatment contributes to his own well-being. The logical deduction
is that it’s all right to mistreat humans, too, if it furthers one’s own interest. . .

An exhibition of traps designed to kill animals instantly rather than
to hold them by one paw in a cruel, crushing grip was held at the Sports and Vaca-
tion Show in New York City and reported in the May-June issue.

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing in-

come tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted to:
the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s much‘
needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director Institute of Human Biology, University of Michigan

Dr. Peter Okkelberg, Emeritus Professor of Zoology and Emeritus Associate Dean of
the Graduate School, University of Michigan

David Ricardo, Medical Liaison Committee, British Columbia Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

OFFICERS
Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 




THIRD ANNUAL REPORT

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
350 Fifth Avenue

New York, New York

 




 




 

 

 

THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
350 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York
(July 1, 1953 to June 30, 1954)

Basic Care of Experimental Animals

The major project undertaken by the Animal Welfare Institute during its
third year was the preparation and distribution of a thirty-six page, illustrated
manual entitled “Basic Care of Experimental Animals” which was designed
for use by the men and women who take care of laboratory animals. Written
in non-technical language, it provides basic information on disease prevention,
feeding, handling, housing, breeding and euthanasia and includes references to
more detailed texts. From the time of its publication in November till the end
of the fiscal year, june 30, 1954, a total of 4,994 copies had been sent on request
to scientific institutions throughout the United States as well as many foreign
countries including Australia, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Great Britain,
India, Lebanon, Nigeria, the Philippines, Southern Rhodesia and Yugoslavia.
In addition to medical schools, veterinary medical schools, and agricultural
colleges, requests have been received from government and hospital labora—
tories, laboratories engaged in industrial research or the production of pharma—
ceuticals. libraries and foundations. Reviews or notices in “Science” and “Science
Newsletter” and. in England, in “The Courier” of the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare. and “The Gazette” of the Institute of Medical Laboratory
Technology were responsible for bringing the manual to the attention of many
scientists and technicians and the Institute is very appreciative of this assistance.

Planning Comfortable Animal Quarters

In addition to disseminating information on good animal care, the Institute
has continued its study of the design and construction of animal quarters and
has provided drawings, reports and references on this subject to a number of

laboratories requesting advice.

The numerous personal visits made by representatives of the Institute to
laboratory animal quarters during the last three years have contributed sub-
stantially to the knowledge necessary for this advisory service. This year they
visited laboratories in six states and the District of Columbia and met with
scientists and animal protective workers in various parts of this country as well
as Canada and England. As in previous years, enormous variations in the kind
of housing and care accorded animals in different institutions were noted, dis—
eased animals in dirty, dark, cramped quarters being accepted as a matter of

 

 




 

 

course in one institution just as healthy, well—fed animals in roomy, comfortable,
clean quarters are the rule in another.

The Physiological Society’s Guiding Principles

An important step toward raising standards in improperly operated labor-
atories is the “Guiding Principles in the Care and Use of Animals" approved
by the Council of the American Physiological Society, and distributed to all of
its members this winter.

GUIDING PRINCIPLES IN THE CARE AND USE OF ANIMALS
(Approved by the Council of the American Physiological Society)

“Only animals that are lawfully acquired shall be used in this laboratory,
and their retention and use shall be in every case in strict compliance with
state and local laws and regulations.

“Animals in the laboratory must receive every consideration for their bod—
ily comfort; they must be kindly treated, properly fed, and their surroundings
kept in a sanitary condition.

“All major operative procedures must be done under a general anesthetic;
minor operative procedures may be done under local infiltration anesthesia. If
the nature of the study is such as to require that the animal survive, acceptable
technic must be followed throughout the operation on dogs and cats. If the
study does not require survival, the animal must be killed in a humane manner

at the conclusion of the observations.

“The postoperative care of experimental animals shall be such as to min-
imize discomfort during convalescence. All conditions must be maintained for
the animal’s comfort in accordance with the best practices in small animal
hospitals or in accordance with the practices followed in human medicine

and surgery.

“When animals are used by students for their education or the advance-

ment of science such work shall be under the direct supervision of an exper—

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ienced teacher or investigator. The rules for the care of such animals must be
the same as for animals used for research.”

The Schweitzer Medal

In October, the Institute announced the creation of a medal honoring Dr.
Albert Schweitzer, the world-famous physician, minister, musician and writer
who brought modern medical aid to the natives of French Equatorial Africa.
His great moral philosophy of “Reverence for Life” teaches kindness and con—
sideration for animals just as for human beings. The primary purpose of the
Schweitzer medal is to encourage progress in laboratory animal welfare, and
it will be awarded annually in recognition of an outstanding contribution to
the humane treatment of animals. The medal is the work of the sculptor, Gustav
Bohland, and it is pictured on the front and back covers of this annual report.

Dr. Schweitzer wrote in response to a request that the Institute might be
permitted to have the medal struck: “I am profoundly moved that you should
wish to give my name to the medal. I give you this right with all my heart.
I should never have thought that my philosophy, which embodies our com—
passionate attitude toward all creatures, would be noticed and recognized
during my lifetime. I knew that this truth would impose itself one day on
thought, but it is the great and moving surprise of my life that I should be
the witness of the progress of ethics. Your medal celebrates this progress:
philosophy obliged to intervene for animals when up until now it has shown

so little interest in them.”

Current News of Animal Welfare

Information Reports were published and distributed by the Institute every
two months, except July and August, to experimental biologists, humane
societies, veterinarians, libraries, and other individuals and groups interested
in science and animal protection. The short articles appearing in this publica-
tion dealt mainly with laboratory animals. Animals used for food also received
considerable attention in relation to the development and application of humane
slaughtering methods. A summary of the material which appeared in last year’s
Information Reports follows after the listing of Conventions and Meetings at-

tended by Institute representatives.

Financial Support

The Animal Welfare Institute’s work is entirely supported by charitable
contributions and membership fees. These latter fees were used exclusively

 

 




 

 

 

 

to pay for the publication of “Basic Care of Experimental Animals” which
has brought information on the humane care of animals into hundreds of labor-
atories. Special gifts by two members made possible the striking of the
Schweitzer Medal.

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s
much needed work depends upon such support.

Conventions and Meetings

New York State Humane Association, New York City, (September 28, 1953)
Animal Welfare Institute Annual Meeting, New York City, (October 1, 1953)
American Humane Association Convention, Denver, Colo., (October 7-10, 1953)

American Humane Association Committee on Animal Seizure Legislation, Denver,
(October 8, 1953); Cleveland, Ohio (May 21, 1953)

National Dog Welfare Guild, New York City, (February 8, 1954)

Animal Care Panel, Chicago, Illinois, (December 2-3, 1953)

Laboratory Animals Bureau Congress, Shefﬁeld, England, (April 5—6, 1954)
Animal Technicians Association Annual Meeting, Shefﬁeld, England, (April 5, 1954)

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare Congress, London, England,
(April 6-9, 1954)

Midwest Humane Conference, Cleveland, Ohio, (May 21—22, 1954)

Summary of Information Reports

The bi—monthly Information Reports issued by the Institute brought to
the attention of readers material on the housing, care, procurement and treat—
ment of laboratory animals. The need for raising standards in all of these
fields, not only for the sake of the animals but also for the sake of scientific

accuracy and for the reduction of unnecessary repetition of experiments, was
shown.

“Some Considerations in Selection and Housing of Experimental Dogs”
was the title of an article in the September-October Report which quoted Dr.
Clive McCay, Professor of Nutrition of the Department of Animal Husbandry
at Cornell University, as saying: “My own belief is that much of the dog re~
search of the past is questionable because of the poor quality of the dogs and
the poor housing of the experimental animals. I am convinced that much of
the medical school research with animals must ultimately be done on farms
because the cost of land, buildings and labor makes good care and housing very
difﬁcult in congested cities.” Dr. Alastair N. V’Vorden, Editor of the “Univer—
sities Federation for Animal Welfare Handbook on the Care and ManagemEﬂt
of Laboratory Animals,” was quoted as follows: “In addition to the human—
itarian aspects, it does seem to me that, from the experimental point of view,

._ —=—.__=.oe ‘_

,A‘r

.rgj‘8‘




 

the advantages of animals bred in the laboratories are overwhelming. In-
fection is one point, adaptation to prevailing conditions is another, and yet a
third is the known nature of the material with which one is working.”

The need for a thorough knowledge of the physical condition, his-
tory and heredity of experimental animals was discussed at the 1953 Ani—
mal Care Panel in Chicago and reported in the N ovember-December Report. A
series of papers was presented on controlling the genetic background of labora-
tory animals. and a report was made on the activities of the new institute of
Animal Resources of the National Research Council, headed by the geneticist,
Dr. 0. N Eaton. One of the organization’s speciﬁc objectives is the improve—
ment of conditions pertaining to the rearing and shipment of animals.

The importance of competent and well-trained personnel with a
natural liking for animals to work in laboratory animal quarters was emph-
asized in the March-April Report which gave a ﬁrst—hand account of the Labor—
atory r~\nimals 3ureau Congress and the annual meeting of the Animal Technic-
ians Association in England. The Syllabi for Associateship and Fellowship EX—
aminations for Animal Technicians were reprinted in this Information Report
and show the impressive amount of knowledge and skill developed by the men
and women who care for experimental animals in Great Britain. The Report
stated: “No American who has visited any considerable number of laboratory
animal colonies in this country would fail to be impressed, even astounded, by
the individual and collective calibre of the British Animal Technicians. The first—
rate personnel whose careful selection and training in some American labora—
tories has led to sound and humane animal care need take no offense at this.
But the fact must be faced that far too large a proportion of their fellows in
other laboratories are men whose mental and moral shortcomings, sometimes
very serious in themselves, are aggravated by the lack of training and the lack
of respect which is often their lot. Some American scientists contribute to this
unfortunate situation while others merely suffer from it . . . Too often, there is
a sharp dividing line to be found where what is thought to be janitor’s work
ends, and where science in the form of an experimental procedure begins.
The welfare of the animals involved is thus entirely overlooked. Recognizing
this, an American biologist ruefully remarked after a tour of a crowded dog
room in his institution: ‘What we need is people to take care of the animals,
not just to take care of the cages.’ ” The answer to this problem is clearly shown
in a quotation from Mr. A. E. Mundy, Hon. Secretary of the Animal Tech-
nicians Association: “\Vhat the nurse is to the hospital patient, the animal

technician is to the laboratory animal. He has a further duty, to record metic—

 




 

ulously all abnormal symptoms observed in the animals under his care and to
report them appropriately.”

Three examples of excellent housing for experimental dogs were cited
in the May—June Report: The Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research at Rah-
Way, New Jersey, the Argonne National Laboratories at Lemont. Illinois and
the Radiobiology Laboratory of the College of Medicine of the University of
Utah. Outside runways connecting by means of self-operating doors with
roomy inside kennels are featured in all. The breeding of Beagles for use in
chronic experiments is practiced in these institutions. The Report states:
“The experimental work in all three institutions referred to requires the use
from time to time of metal metabolism cages, but dogs are not perpetually con—
fined to these cages. After the testing period is over, it is usual for them to re—
turn to the far less restrictive and more comfortable and pleasant kennel-
runways where, after their period of solitary confinement, they may again
share a kennel-runway section with some of the same individuals they were
raised with. At the Merck Institute, resting boards are supplied in all metab-
olism cages where such provision is possible.”

“Retrogression in Laboratory Animal Housing” was the title of an arti—
cle in the November—December Report. It described two new research buildings
which had cost millions of dollars and which contained animal quarters markedly
inferior to those built in former years by the same institutions. In both new
buildings, dogs are conﬁned to a single window-less room, ﬁlled as full as pos—
sible with metal cages; they also lack outside runways or exercise pens of any
kind. The Report stated that the current over-emphasis on efﬁciency and mass
production appears to be partially to blame for the construction of such sin-
gularly unpleasant animal quarters at such high construction cost. In another
part of the same issue, attention was focussed on the dangers of the “One-
minute—one-inch-0ne—cent-saving approach to animal colony management. No
one can deny the value of a proper regard for efﬁciency and economy in the man-
agement of any undertaking. Efﬁciency and economy are not, however, ends in
themselves, and have no value unless they help to forward the basic objective to
which they are being applied. If permitted to become ends in themselves, they
can act as positive obstacles to those basic objectives.” The article indicated
that on occasion “the real aim of research was being forgotten and another quite
different goal being substituted: that of trying to keep the largest number of

animals in the smallest possible space, with the least possible care, on the cheap-

 

 

 




 

 

 

est possible rations. Such an. objective not only conflicts sharply with ethical
considerations in the conduct of research using animals but is incompatible
with biological research of the highest quality.” This and other Information
Reports offered Animal Welfare Institute consultation on the planning of new

animal quarters.

An interesting article on animal house management was contributed to
the November-December Report by Dr. Patricia P. Scott, who teaches physiol-
ogy and holds the position of Curator of the Animal Unit at the Royal Free Hos-
pital School of Medicine in London. The Curator system was described in the
article which also gave information on administration and staffing and the daily
routine work of the Animal House Unit. It is well worth a thorough reading by
anyone responsible for experimental animals.

The Commissioners” Order‘s adopted in the District of Columbia
were discussed in detail in the January-February Report which also carried an
account of testimony presented at the Hearing including the text of the state—
ment by the President of the Institute. The following evaluation was made in
the Report: “On February 23, 1954 the Commissioners adopted two Orders,
one making animals from the District Pound available to laboratories, and the
other setting up standards on their use and care. It is regrettable that the pro-
curement provisions suggested above were not adopted (Le. that the use of im-
pounded animals should be limited to non-survival experiments in which the an—
imal is ﬁrst fully anesthetized and is killed without recovering consciousness) ;
nevertheless. the Commissioners have shown in the second of these Orders that
they understand the pressing need for protection of laboratory animals. The pro—
visions which they have made, although incomplete, deserve respectful recogni-
tion as one of the few thoughtful efforts ever made by public ofﬁcials in the
United States to deal with the problem of humane treatment of laboratory ani-
mals.” Animals in the custody of humane societies are not liable to requisition by
W ashington laboratories. However, in Illinois, where legislation was passed in
1951 relating to the procurement of impounded dogs for experiments, the
amendment exempting humane societies from requisition was re-amended with-
out the knowledge of animal protective workers or pet owners. The National
Society for Medical Research showed no embarrassment in claiming this leg—
islative maneuver as a victory. The text of the new amendment was given in
the May-June Report. Delegates to the convention of the American Humane
Association reafﬁrmed their opposition to animal seizure legislation, pledging

themselves to oppose it in a firm, reasonable and efﬁcient manner with a Vlew

 




 

to preventing its passage and to discouraging its introduction in any future
year. This resolution appeared in full in the September-October Report. The
humane society representatives base their stand on moral principle. Their
shelters were erected to protect animals. To send the animals they have taken
into their custody to a laboratory for use in a painful experiment would com-
pletely undermine the ethical basis upon which all humane work is founded.

Progress in eliminating pain and fear from the slaughter of hogs
was reported in the January-February and May-June Reports which describe
the work underway at the Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts
at Ames, Iowa, where a simplified device for anesthetizing hogs with carbon
dioxide gas prior to slaughter is being tested. The new Danish regulations re—
quiring the anesthetization of animals prior to slaughter were also published.
To date, however, the George A. Hormel Company of Austin, Minnesota is
the only American meat packing company which anesthetizes all of its hogs.
It is to be hoped that others will follow its example within the coming year.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director Institute of Human Biology, University of Michigan

Dr. Eric H. Hansen, President, Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Dr. Peter Okkelberg, Emeritus Professor of Zoology and Emeritus Associate Dean 01“
the Graduate School, University of Michigan.

David Ricardo, Secretary, British Columbia Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Helen Hanzlick, Asst. Treas.

 

 

 




 




 




 

 

 

SEEIINII ANNUAL IIEI’IIIIT
0E THE ANIMAL WELEAIIE INSTITUTE

350 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York

(July 1, 1952—June 30, 1953)

 

 

 

 

 

 

During its second year, the Animal Welfare Institute has continued
to collect and disseminate information relative to the welfare of an-
imals, especially those used for experimental purposes. Representatives
of the Institute have visited the laboratories and animal quarters of
hospitals, foundations, universities and pharmaceutical companies. They
have met with scientists, administrators, and animal protective workers
in various parts of this country and England, have carried on an ex-
tensive correspondence and have participated in a number of conven-
tions and meetings. Bi—monthly Information Reports have been prepared
and eight to ten thousand copies of each issue distributed to biologists,
humane organizations and others.

In the past two years, the Institute’s reference ﬁles have grown
substantially and the information collected has proved useful to many
enquirers. Assistance has been given upon request to institutions plan-
ning to remodel old or construct new animal quarters, both in, this
country and abroad. An example of these activities was a request from
a laboratory in Africa relative to the construction of animal quarters.
The Institute had recently acquired from the Lister Institute in Eng-
land a well'drawn set of plans and descriptive material which seemed
especially well adapted to the needs described, and photostatic copies
were dispatched to Africa. Another example which may be cited was
a large metropolitan hospital in New York City, which was in the pro-
cess of planning new animal quarters at the time Institute representa-
tives visited its laboratory. At the request of the hospital authorities,
recommendations on planning including cages, built-in enclosures and
exercise facilities were presented for their use.

In addition to information concerning animals used in laboratories,
the Institute reported on the important new device developed by George

 




 

A. Hormel and Co. for the C02 anesthetization of hogs prior to slaugh-
ter. Lawrence Langer, Secretary of the National Inventors Council,
learned through the Institute of this work and referred it to the ap-
propriate subcommittee which in turn commended it for reference to
the Army, Navy and Air Force.

This humane and useful invention exempliﬁes one of the ways in
which science and humanitarianism can successfully complement one
another. In this particular case, utilitarian considerations served as a
catalyst between the scientiﬁc research which made the invention pos-
sible and the humane purpose it serves in eliminating a vast amount
of fear and suffering previously inﬂicted on animals as a. matter of
course. It is also possible for science and animal welfare to make
direct mutual contributions. Technological advances must be made in
other ﬁelds of animal protection, a painless substitute for the steel
trap being the most urgent need of this kind. Humane contributions
to scientiﬁc work are especially needed in research using animals, for
the quality of the work in a large percentage of laboratories could be
improved by more careful attention to animal welfare. Discoveries of
new techniques to reduce the numbers of animals required in labora-
tories or to reduce the severity of the procedures to which they are
subjected are likewise much needed. Now that the Institute has been
declared ofﬁcially tax exempt, it is hoped that substantial charitable
contributions may be forthcoming which will make it possible to ex-
tend the work of the Institute and to carry out such projects.

Conventions & Meetings

American Association for the Advancement of Science, St. Louis, Missouri, De-
cember 27-30, 1952. A booth display was presented at the Exposition of Science
and Industry which received favorable notice in the press and was viewed by
many visitors. (See the back page of this report for the text.)

Amr‘can Humane Association, Boston, October 5-9, 1952 at which the President
of the Institute spoke on Humane Education. The President of the Institute also
was appointed to the Committee against Animal Seizure Legislation of the Ameri-
can Humane Association and attended meetings during the year in New York
City, Albany, and Boston.

Animal Care Panel, Chicago, Illinois, December 3-4, 1952.
New York State Humane Association, Albany, January 28, 1953.

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, London, England. Executive Com-
mittee Meeting, June 10, 1953, Scientiﬁc Sub-Committee Meeting, June 17, 1953.

Animal Welfare Institute, New York City, October 1, 1952, meeting of Associate
Members; Ann Arbor, Michigan, December 5, 1952, meeting of scientiﬁc mem-
bers of the Advisory Committee and Ofﬁcers.

Summary Of Information Reports

The bi-monthly Information Reports issued by the Institute have
shown the necessity for improving conditions for experimental animals.
The Institute agrees with the American biologist who said: “That scien-

 




 

tists should not be hampered and animals completely protected: this is
one of those consumations devoutly to be hoped for.”

A growing awareness, on the part of some of the men engaged in
the practice of medicine and the related biological sciences, of the
need for greater efforts to prevent suffering to laboratory animals was
praised in the August—October Information Report. At the. same time,
the Institute pointed out that intensiﬁcation of such efforts is much
needed. An interesting suggestion for the humane control of animal
experimentation by scientiﬁc societies and journals was quoted from
the head of a medical research laboratory who is seriously concerned
with the problem of animal suffering in laboratories and believes that
scientists should take the necessary steps “to prevent disorder in our
own house.” This Report also carried an account of the action taken
by' the Committee on Legislation of Queens County (New York) Med-
ical Society following passage of the Hatch-Metcalf Act: “May we of
the reference committee further suggest that it is the duty of the pro-
fession as a whole to assure proper enforcement of safeguards against
abuse of animals obtained through this law. This includes careful
supervision of experiments to see that they are conducted in a humane
manner, the setting up of regulations for the provision of proper
animal cages and care and the elimination of wasteful, purposeleSSv
and obviously fruitless experiments to which a larger supply of animals
may give rise.”

The intelligent attitude shown by the California Department of
Health Division of Laboratories which has charge of the administration
of the Animal Care Act of that State was cited as a hopeful sign
that this legislation will serve a useful and humane purpose. In a
letter addressed to all agencies using laboratory animals, the chief
of the Division of Laboratories emphasized the fact that using animals
for experimentation was a privilege and added, “The best way to en-
sure this privilege is to achieve a high standard of humane care and

management.”

Although funds for medical research in the United States today are
ten times greater than in 1941, the Institute called attention to the fact
that it is essential for directors of institutions planning new quarters
to insist upon adequate funds for decent and comfortable animal quar-
ters. Instances were cited of inadequate and undesirable quarters, lack
of exercise facilities and resting places, cages of insufﬁcient size for
the animal involved, and the statement was made: “Not only these
animals, but also every citizen who contributes directly or indirectly to
scientiﬁc research involving animals, have the right to a genuine guar-
antee that no unnecessary pain or distress is inﬂicted on them regardless
of whether or not such infliction has become accepted as routine.”

 

 

 




 

 

The Institute has recommended to readers who are directly con-
cerned with laboratory animals two excellent standard works which
provide a fund of useful information: “The UFAW Handbook on the
Care and Management of Laboratory Animals” edited by A. N. Worden,
and “The Care and Breeding of Laboratory Animals” edited by E. J.
Farris. Also recommended as a reference source was a bibliography
made available by the Kettering Laboratory of the University of Cin-
cinnati. The Institute contributed a substantial list of references to the
recently revised issue of the bibliography.

The annual meeting of the Animal Care Panel, where disease con-
trol in laboratory animal colonies, the construction of animal quarters,
and breeding programs for various species were discussed, was reported
in the November-December issue of the report. Special attention was
given to humane- recommendations. A recent statement by the National
Research Council was quoted at the meeting: “It is obviously just as
improper for a scientist to work with inadequately deﬁned animals
as it is for him to use impure drugs or badly calibrated measuring
instruments.” It was pointed out that the implications of this scienti-
ﬁc approach have very considerable humane signiﬁcance. Low standards
of animal care in, laboratories, the acquisition of heterogeneous animals
from a variety of sources, the use of sickly or undernourished animals,
failure to give veterinary treatment or to destroy sick animals, and
other similar practices which lead to unnecessary suffering also con-
tribute to.J the use of the “inadequately deﬁned animals” which is con—
demned on purely scientiﬁc grounds.

During the course of the business meeting of the Animal Care
Panel a statement of the position of the Institute regarding the pro-
curement of experimental dogs and cats was asked for and given, the
agreements now in effect in Louisville, Kentucky and Vancouver, BC.
being cited (see Information Reports Vol. 1, No. 2; Vol. 1, No. 6; and
Vol. 2, No. 3). At the request of representatives of the National So-
ciety for Medical Research, a discussion was held following the meet-
ing concerning possible cooperation on this basis between research
institutions and animal protective organizations. Unfortunately, “all
or none” policies in respect to procurement of dogs and cats and the
provision of adequate safeguards for the welfare of, laboratory animals
continue to command the support of both the NSMR and anti-vivi—
section societies, and in the May-June Information Report it was
necessary to correct statements made in the NSMR communications
sent to a number of humane societies. At the same time a protest against
the unauthorized use by an antivivisection society of statements made
by a member of the Institute’s Advisory Committee was brought to
the readers’ attention.

Emphasizing again the need for decent care and housing for lab-




oratory animals, the January—February report told of the Institute’s
exhibit at the 119th annual meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science in St. Louis. This exhibit called attention, with
pictures and captions, to the great progress made during the past
century in various ﬁelds: communications, science, medicine, child
welfare, transportation, industry, and asked: “Why so little progress
in laboratory animal welfare?” Six are-as especially in need of attention
were listed. Together with the Institute’s recommendations, these are
reprinted on the back page of this report. The January-February report
also carried complete details on the new method of using anesthesia in
the slaughtering of hogs, and was illustrated with a design showing
the process.

Since Great Britain is the nation in which the most intensive study
has been given to the complex problems involved in animal experi-
mentation, the Institute sought ﬁrst-hand information on British prac-
tices as they affect both scientists and animals. Its reports have carried
comprehensive accounts on the manner in which British biologists have
dealt with the controversial and complex problems which arise in
connection with animal experimentation. These included the observa-
tions made by the Institute’s president on a visit to Great Britain and
a letter written by Major C. W. Hume, Director of the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare which discussed animal experimentation
in Britain. A later Information Report carried an analysis by the Scien-
tiﬁc Sub—Committee of UFAW of the British legislation on laboratory
animals (The Cruelty to Animals Act) with suggestions useful to other
nations. The Laboratory Animals Bureau and the Animal Technicians
Association were described in one issue. These were formed in Great
Britain by scientists for the purpose of achieving more accurate results
through the use of better-bred, healthier, and better cared-for animals.
The Animal Technicians Association, made up‘ of hundreds of the men
and women whose duty it is to care for experimental animals, has
done a great deal to raise the status of this important work and to
improve its quality. The Laboratory Animals Bureau publishes in-
formation concerning the care and procurement of animals for experi-
mental purposes. ExCerpts from an excellent paper which appeared in
the Journal of the Animal Technicians Association on water require-
ments of laboratory animals were published in one of the Institute’s
reports. All of these organizations have been helpful in supplying in-
formation to the Institute, and a member of the Institute’s Advisory
Committee was appointed by the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare to serve as Honorary Secretary for the United States.

Among all the issues relating to animal experimentation which have
been debated for nearly a century in the United States, the current battle
over the procurement of experimental dogs and cats has aroused the

 




 

 

most widespread controversy and bitterness. Legislation which would
force humane societies to provide animals for painful research has
opened up a whole new ﬁeld for strife and propaganda which did not
exist a few years ago. As a result, both the medical profession and the
animal protective cause have suffered from a variety of confused and
frequently erroneous impressions which have been created in the public
mind. Any solution to the relatively minor problem of pr0curement
of dogs and cats which reﬂects on the honor and integrity of medicine,
the biological science-s, and the humane movement, means a sacriﬁce
of the basic values of our civilization to a purely utilitarian expediency.
Echoes of this bitter controversy in the United States were heard in
Great Britain where two articles discussing problems relating to the
welfare of laboratory animals, procurement of dogs and cats, and the
position of the Animal Welfare Institute appeared in the May 31 and
August 23, 1952 issues of The Lancet, a leading British medical period-
ical. These articles were reprinted in full in the Institute’s November—
December Report. The Lancet articles pointed out that the Institute
is being attacked both by the anti-vivisectionists because it does not
condemn animal experiments, and by the research scientists because it
does not approve their policy towards animal welfare societies. Ex-
pressing surprise at this opposition to the middle course which the
Institute is following, the Lancet said: “Every country must work out
its own ethics in cases like this; and there is every reason to believe
that individual research workers in America impose on themselves a
code of humane regard for animals every bit as stringent as that ac-
cepted here. Regulations are designed not for well-doers, however, but
for the aberrant; and mankind being what it is, these are as likely
to be found among research scientists as any other group. Dispassionate
consideration of principles should convince our American research col-
leagues that if they are going to insist on freedom for themselves
from restrictions imposed from without they should, in common fair—
ness, insist equally on freedom from similar restrictions for the animal
welfare societies. For after all, the broad aim of these societies is iden-
tical with that of medicine—they are merely more catholic in their
choice of the animals they befriend. Moreover, if American scientists
cannot tolerate restrictions imposed from without, they can counter
anti-vivisectionist propaganda in another way—by drawing up their own
code of humane behaviour and requiring members of their scientiﬁc
bodies to conform to it.”

In its November-December Report, the Institute called attention to
the practical solutions which have been reached in Vancouver, B.C.
and Louisville, Kentucky, and which depend upon the important dis-
tinction between (1) chronic experiments, in which the animal is alive
and conscious for varying lengths of time, and (2) non-survival ex-
periments under full anesthesia in which the animal is ﬁrst rendered

 




unconscious, then used for any of a variety of scientiﬁc purposes,
and, at the conclusion of the experiment, killed without ever having
been permitted to recover consciousness. If properly conducted, the
second type of experiment is entirely painless; the ﬁrst type may cause
varying degrees of distress and pain.

Bills forcing the surrender of dogs and cats to laboratories make
no distinction between experiments and put no limit on the degree of
suffering that may be inﬂicted on the animals which they seek to force
the animal shelters to release. Obviously humane organizations are ethi-
cally bound to resist such legislation. They did this successfully during
the past year, and no new seizure laws have been passed.

Additional information on the agreement between Vancouver lab-
oratories, city pound, and the SPCA was published in the May-June
Report in which the Institute reiterated its belief that an atmosphere
of friendly cooperation and mutual trust is most urgently needed in
order to reach sound solutions to the problems involved in animal ex-
perimentation.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director Institute of Human Biology, University of Michigan.
Dr. Eric H. Hansen, President, Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Dr. Robert Gesell, Professor of Physiology, University of Michigan.
Dr. Peter Okkelberg, Emeritus Professor 01‘ Zoology and Emeritus Associate Dean of
the Graduate School, University of Michigan.
David Ricardo, Secretary, British Columbia Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treas. 0 Helen Hanzlick, Asst. Treas.

 




Recommendations Of The Animal Welfare Institute

 

PERSONNEL Many laboratories now employ untrained, underpaid men, classed
as unskilled workers, who have little interest in caring for animals. As a result, both
animals and research suffer.

AWI Recommends: Sound training of animal technicians, selected for com-
petence and a liking for animals; adequate budget appropriations to insure fair salaries;
a title commensurate with their responsibilities.

31¢ * *

HOUSING Overcrowding of animals is a major problem in modern laboratories.
For example, dogs and cats are often left for months or years with no provisions for
regular exercise, in cages only large enough to permit them to stand, lie and turn;
rabbits are frequently conﬁned to cages too small to allow them to stretch out in their
natural resting position.

AWI Recommends: Intelligent, thoughtful planning of housing, including a
practical study of the natural habits of the animals being used. The size of enclosure
should take into consideration the size of animal involved and the duration of con-
ﬁnement.

* * *

SANITATION AND DISEASE CONTROL Some laboratories, superﬁcially clean,
encourage the spread of disease by failing to sterilize equipment passed from one group
of animals to another and by not isolating sick animals. Other laboratories are actually
ﬁlthy. An attitude of “this is the best we can do” will not stop the spread of disease.

AWI Recommends: An efﬁcient cleaning and sterilizing program by personnel
who understand how communicable diseases spread; adequate heat, light and ventilation;
availability of veterinary advice for all animal colonies; an isolation period for newly
received animals, as well as isolation, treatment or destruction of sick animals.

* * *

MENTAL WELL-BEING Many laboratory animals suffer severely from fear,
loneliness and anxiety. Studies in psychosomatic medicine indicate the importance
of mental states.

AWI Recommends: Kind treament of all animals, adequate space and com-
panionship, and a special effort to keep contented the animals being held for long

periods of time.
* * *

PHYSICAL COMFORT Animals of all kinds frequently are deprived of a com-
fortable resting place, are maintained on metal grids, without bedding or resting boards,
and some are kept without water for long periods.

AWI Recommends: The provision of simple comforts for all experimental animals.

=l< * *

REDUCTION OF PAIN-INFLICTION Thoughtlessness in the planning of ex-
perimentation and teaching results in much unecessary suffering. For example, why
should nine consecutive experiments be performed by students in practice surgery on
a single dog?

AWI Recommends: Careful planning of all experimental and teaching prac-
tices with a view to eliminating unnecessary suffering and reducing the number of
animals used; use of non-survival experiments wherever possible; more extensive use
of anesthesia and pain-relieving drugs.

=§¢ 91¢ 3!:

ALL LABORATORY ANIMALS ARE ENTITLED TO WATER,
FOOD, REST, EXERCISE, COMPANIONSHIP, SANITATION
AND KINDNESS.

 




