 

 

' CLJI: A/nimals
V Foundation ‘

/Q(/£
#55??th 9mm 27“

WK LW/qut '37
2., VLOXV
37, was an“

 

' «ﬁr.

4 , ﬁx 57? 5"?“

Respect for freedom knows no boundaries.

 

3509 Eden Croft Drive, Raleigh, NC 27612 0 (919) 782-3739

 

 




Frazier said there was no medical or scientific evidence that Vioxx contributed in any way to Irvin's
death. The autopsy, he said, showed a buildup of plaque in Irvin's arteries.

At Humeston's trial, Merck's lawyers said his age, gender, weight, cholesterol, blood pressure and
job-related stress, not Vioxx, caused his heart attack. Humeston, a former U.S. Marine, claimed his
heart attack was caused by the 56 Vioxx pills he took for knee pain that began when he was
wounded in Vietnam.

Stress

‘ ‘I don't think Vioxx caused his heart attack," said juror Nellie Stetzer, 60. ‘ ‘I think it was the
stress in his life and his age and his gender and the pain with his shrapnel wounds from Vietnam. I
just didn't believe that his heart attack changed his life the way he said it did."

Lawyers who have sued Merck sought to downplay the significance of the Humeston defeat.
Attorney Mark Lanier, who won the Texas verdict in August, said more bad news is coming.

‘ ‘In any mass tort litigation, the defense usually wins the first four or five cases," Lanier said. He
noted that asbestos companies won the first 10 cases tried against them before facing a damage
award. Lanier has won millions in damages from former makers of asbestos, an insulation linked to
cancer and lung disease.

‘ ‘I wouldn't be surprised if Merck won the next four cases that are scheduled to be tried in federal
court," Lanier said. He said the federal rules of evidence are more stringent than those used in most
state courts.

To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, at dvoreacos@bloomberg.net;
Sophia Pearson in Atlantic City at spearson3@bloomberg.net.

Last Updated: November 4, 2005 00:03 EST
y. El Print

 




.- I" ' ":1 Lay.
,gyﬁetilizet’éliﬁszom Yahool News — Pﬁzer Takes Painkiller Bextra on Market

Vaeswmews ,

 

Pﬁzer Takes Painkiller Bextra Off Market

By LAURAN NEERGAARD, AP Medical Writer

The warnings encompa ﬁzz“? 31“. *5 13“.":
made headlines last fal ‘

avoid the same risks of 'higx

' Worried patients immediately began calling doctors and pain groups to ask what drug they should take. The FDA advised patients to ask which painkiller is best suited to their personal health risks, and then take the
M lowest dose possible.

Related Quotes There simply isn't enough research yet to rank which drug will pose fewer heart problems said FDA drug chief Dr. Steven Galson. 'A lot of the data conﬂicts,‘ he said.

MRI“: 33- 74 '0- 07 The FDA Is asking painkiller manufacturers to sift through their research to help ﬁgure that out.
0 0100 , , ,. . ._ - - . . -
. _ ' g'gb,‘ Galson said.

The saga began last September When Merck 8. Co. voluntarily pulled its pain reliever Vonx off the market alter a study showed long-term use doubled patients' risk of heart attacks and strokes Pﬁzer Inc.‘ s Bextra and

Celebrex are similar drugs, a subset of NSAle known as cox-2 inhibitors, and studies showthey also can raise cardiovascular risks, although apparently to a smaller degree than Vonx.

Related Links "' 1’ " 5 . I 5 . , 7.‘ r-I.Iroalean 'Union on Thursday. at the request of the FDA and its European counterparts The FDA 5,
¥ Pam-HersChromloo.I”, , , ». ~ .. ‘ , ‘ ' , .. " . ‘7 ‘ ‘ ‘ . ~., , . « _, tanningkipg the drug too rIsky to remain on the market.

Yahoo! Health ° ' " ' ‘- ’ ‘ - " cans ~e FDA announced Thursday.

But it and all other prescription NSAle must carry a major warning on the label that long-term use may cause serious cardiovascular side effects or gastrointestinal bleeding. No one who recently underwent heart bypass

, sur e should use rescri tion-stren th NSAIDs, the wamIn stresses.
Have questIons about 9 W p p g 9

your health? Also, patients are to receive a special pamphlet with every NSAID prescription ﬁlled that spells out the warnings in consumer-friendly language.

Find answers here. Thursday's move was a blow to Pﬁzer, which said it 'respectfully disagrees' with the FDA that the drug, which .-. > > ~ ,is too risky. Pfizer pledged additional research on Bextra's heart risks and

said it would try to bring back the drug.

Use of cox-2 inhibitors skyrocketed, particularly by people with arthritis and other chronic pain, when they hit the market' In the late 1990s because of claims that they were easier on patients' stomachs than traditional
painkillers. The FDA cautioned that those claims were never proven.

’ ' numnamnemmmmimmmm ..
It should be prescribed only for patients not helped by other painkillers, or who are at particularly high risk for stomach problems, said Vanderbilt University pharmacologist Dr. Alastair Wood, who advises the FDA on drug safety.
For chronic pain, such as arthritis, Wood recommends starting patients on the NSAlD naproxen, along with a stomach-protecting drug if necessary.

There are studies that show naproxen poses far fewer heart risks than Celebrex or the other now-defunct cox-2 inhibitors, said Dr. Sidney Wolfe of the consumer advocacy group Public Citizen. He called the F DA's decision to put the same warning on
every NSAlD 'incredibly reckless.“

These painkillers are “still very good drugs,‘ stressed Dr. Thalia Segal of the New York University Pain Center. But, 'we're not supposed to take them for life anymore.‘
In stead, she advises looking for non-pill therapies where possible. Lidocaine pain patches, for example, help knee arthritis, as does losing weight, she said. Acupuncture, heat or massage helps various forms of pain.

-Story Tools
On the Net:

 

 

Copyright© 2005 The Associated Press. All ngits reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcaa. rewritten or redistributed without the prior witten authority of The Associated
Press.

Copyright © 2005 Yahool inc. Al rights reserved.
' ' nts
anaw Policy Jeans of Service - 'Zc'owght/IP Poliw- Ad Fssdssth

 

-71....5 .tc. ,Lcld=54l &u=/ap/20050407/ap_on.he.JrIe/fde_palnklllers&printer=l

 




The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

is, is a function of the number and variety of
opportunities for satisfaction it forecloses, and
there is no credible basis on which to claim that
the death of a normal, adult animal is not a
greater loss, and thus a greater harm, than the
death of a less aware, retarded human, one who
possesses fewer desires, less competence to act
intentionally, and is less responsive to others
and to the environment generally.26

Clean-Enough Hands and Dirty Hands

lirtually every philosophical advocate for animals has
irgued that the biomedical research industry should be
lismantled or radically restructured. A handful of
’rontline partisans think it justiﬁed to use violence to
)ring this about. All advocates for animals who direct
rarsh moral criticism or worse at biomedical research
nust confront the implications of the following three
)rinciples of pragmatic consistency:

1. If one believes one is morally at liberty to accept
a currently-available benefit of biomedical
research, one is committed to accepting the
institutionalized moral costs actually paid to
produce that beneﬁt, all things considered. (The
“clean-enough” hands principle).

2. If one judges the institutionalized moral costs of
biomedical research to be ethically unacceptable
and intolerable, all things considered, one is
ethically committed to refusing the benefits
whose history includes those costs. (The “dirty
hands” princi le).27

3. The more negative one’s ethical assessment of the
institutionalized moral costs of biomedical
research, the stronger one’s reasons to refuse to
refuse its benefits in virtue of their tainted causal
history. (The “bridge principle” between “clean-
enough hands” and “dirty hands”).

/\

Evidence that one operates on the “clean-enough
hands" principle for currently available medical beneﬁts
would include visits to a state-licensed physician, taking
over-the-counter or prescription medicines, accepting
hospitalization for oneself or having one’s children
delivered in a hospital, having oneself or one’s children
vaccinated against polio or influenza, or possession of

 

a health insurance policy for oneself or for one’s family.

Possessing a health insurance policy is evidence of .
operating on the “clean-enough” hands principle ‘

because such a policy is wholly dedicated to paying for
beneﬁts, almost all of which have resulted from or have
been reﬁned and improved through animal testing.

On the other hand, if one were to think that the :
biomedical research done in this country has been and
is ethically intolerable, as evidenced by one’s making
protest of it a central feature of one’s moral life, for -
example, one must invoke the “dirty hands” principle. I

One would be no more justiﬁed in accepting medical
interventions produced by our institutions of biomedical

research, or in possessing an insurance policy to cover
one’s use of them, than an opponent of chicken factory I? ~
farming would be justiﬁed in routinely eating Kentucky .1

Fried Chicken.

To see better how the “dirty hands” principle makes :
refusing health insurance obligatory, consider the
following hypothetical Suppose, to bolster sagging

meat sales, industry lobbyists got sympathetic
legislators to propose legislation authorizing employers
to offer “meat insurance" as a tax free employment

beneﬁt. They might claim, “All working, red-blooded ;
Americans deserve secure, government subsidized

access to red-meat!”

If one’ s moral assessment of the meat industry were V

so strongly negative as to make it unacceptable and
intolerable, not only should one boycott its products,
one would also have a very strong reason to oppose:
this hypothetical “meat insurance” legislation as
ethically perverse. If so, one should reject health
insurance on the same grounds. Indeed, one should
pressure one’ s congressional representatives to repeal
tax exempt status for health insurance. It amounts to an
unconscionable subsidy to an unjust industry. One:
should put ‘health insurance’ in sneer-quotes or refe.‘
to it as “so-called health insurance” in witness to the"

fact that the term is a euphemism for a scheme thafI

enables purchasing the blessings of injustice at
discount—typically 20 cents on the dollar. .

The “bridge principle” recognizes that we live in . _f
ethically shaded, imperfect world. Guided by whatev 11
theory of moral costs one accepts, it does all the heav .
lifting. Its pragmatic force should make us painstakingl .
careful with our facts, with our ethical analyses an _
with our moral rhetoric. We are all heirs to world stain-1|
with wrongs of varying degrees. But, when one single.
out a particular wrong for special attention, organize

 

Between the Species ,

 

Winter a Spring 1995

 

{111- ’s life around theprojectol
the strongest moral term
1 1"" the bridge principle in

' ﬂ‘dvomtes for animals who at
" .,w its force very well.

.Qfl’lhere are three common
11 eprinciple. The polyanm
eceptively 2“ For peace 0
%{11 ace of evil and wrc
‘ _hted by her theory 0
2 lhmisms to describe the t'
. ut, wishftu thinkstl
'11 bring her what she ml
at liberty to accept all t
”.By her own lights, t
always clean enoug
111 rigoristically, fi
IIcing, uses the langu
"11 and lives a life "
‘1 1 Beth, her hands
accepts much of I
11 insensitive. He
but she lives, to 1
t 11 only with guilt.
, 11 “king these moral
.. in oneself, is a
y 11 Hwe can drive 0

131 rifact1 absolutely
11111 seernwithcorrl

 

.Isometimes hap
1; 111 "g self-examl

11... .
I1 .1 ‘ve been pew
"*"111‘ that good ac11

, ve, falsely-at
. 17'1"‘n0t actually,

 




Tuesday, November 62120042001 CNN.com - FDA accused of silencing Vioxx

warnings - Oct 8, 2004

Copyright 2004 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.This material may not be
published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

Find this article at:
http://www.cnn.com/2004/ H EALTH/10/08/fda.vioxx.worries.ap

Check the box to include the list of links referenced in the article.

http://cnn.health.printthis.c|ickability.com/pt/
cpt?action=cpt&title=CNN.com+-+FDA+

 




'reatment

 

ear and Tremblmg/Repetttton

::on Princeton University Press,

etc. v. King County Hosp. Unité-f-
Ct. 1260, 390 US. 598 (1968), i
05 (W.D. Wash. 1967) (statute?
children dependents and orders}
Ital objections does not violate;
rcise or establishment clauses);‘.t;
138 N Y.S 211 266, 420 N. E 2d i
1., 454 U. S. 858 (1981) (state ,.
ionships to protect health and

a1 principles).

real “benefit” at stake is the ‘
lity and mortality and not the 1,
animal processes which play a ,
t as shorthand, I will refer to .

e of Technology Assessment, 1
fesearch, Testing and Education 7.
mment Printing Ofﬁce, OTA- 3

.nimal Experimentation in the
1d do not show. Perspectives in

~231. Winter 1994.

nent of Agriculture, Animal ..

Year1993. P.19.

before the Nuremberg Military
1cill.aw Nio. 10, Vol. 2, p.181.
mment Printing Ofﬁce, 1949.

tion.‘ Declaration of Helsinki.
Medical Assembly. Helsinki,

ieial Hygiene: Medicine Under
'ress, Cambridge, Mass, p. 227.

psychopathic god. New York:
). Lahler, 1944. Das deutsche
'1 zum Schutze der tiere. Berlin:
.uke, A., and Boria Sax. 1992.
.e Holocaust.”Anthmzoos, Vol.

) 1939. The Political Testament
John Long, pp. 70,72,75).

.8.

 

Winter & Spring 1995

 

The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

 

7" Giese and Kahler, 1944.

22 AMA. 1933. “New regulations concerning vivisection.”
1 :mal of the American Medical Association 102 (14): 1087.

aQ‘Capliin A. 1992. When Medicine Went Mad. Bioethics
.11 the Holocaust. Totowa, N. J. Humana Press, p. 77.

2‘ Singer claims that a categorical preference based on

:ties is on a par with categorical preference based on race.
1 claims both violate the principle of equal consideration of
al,1nterests Singer says “‘speciesists’ give greater weight
..- interests of members of their own species when there is
1131: between their interests and the interests of those other
:1»: ies. Human speciesists do not accept that pain is as bad
111 it is felt by pigs or mice as when it is felt by humans. ”
1"} get, 1993, p.58). Singer’ s view is sharply criticized by

lCohen See his “The case for the use of animals in
titmedical research.” New England Journal of Medicme 315:
S-870 (October 2), 1986.

.1 75 Singer, 1993, p.77.
3:26 Regan, 1983, p.314.
.1:

27 For an excellent discussion of “dirty hands” see,
.1 jcConnell, T. 1981 “Moral blackmail. ” Ethics 91: 544- 567

28 For an excellent discussion of self-deception, see,

f“ " e1e,A. R. 1987. Irrationality. New York: Oxford University
1' 1188, ch. 9.

29 Kant,l. (L..W Beck, trans”) 1978. Foundations of the

Metaphysics of Morals Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill, p. 23.
'1 3° Singer, 1993, p.64, emphasis in the original.

,- 3‘ Regan, 1983, p.382, emphasis in the original.
, ’ ’2 Regan, 1983, p.384.

33 Regan, 1983, p. 346.
3“ Regan, 1983, p.324.
35 Regan, 1981, pp. 346-347.

’6 McGinnis J, Foege W. “Actual causes of death' in the

United States.” JAMA.1993; 270: 2207-2212.

, . 37 Gay W 1. "The dog as research subject.” Physiologist
27;133-14o.

38 Jain AC, Dedha 11v, Savrin RA, Withers AS, Rochlani

" S. “Laser and balloon angioplasty in chronic occlusion of the
‘, femoral artery in a canine model.”Am Hear J. 1986; 111 :794-5.

39 Regan, 1981, p.345.
4° Singer, 1993, p. 67.

 

 

 

 

Books Received

Daniel C. Dennett

DARWIN’S DANGEROUS IDEA
Evolution and the Meanings of Life

New York: Simon & Schuster, 1995

preface, appendix, 521p, bibliography, index
$30 hardback

Birgitta Forsman & Stellan Welin

THE TREATMENT OF ETHICS

in a Swedish Government Commission on
Gene Technology

Studies in Research Ethics No. 6
Goterborg, Sweden: Centre for Research
Ethics, 1995

foreward, 38p, references, index of names
$9 paper

Gary L. Francione

ANIMALS, PROPERTY, AND THE LAW
Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1995
foreward, preface and acknowledgements,
261p, explanation of legal citations, notes,
selected bibliography, index

$59.95 cloth/$22.95 paper

Matthias Kaiser & Stellan Welin, editors
ETHICAL ASPECTS OF MODERN
BIOTECHNOLOGY

Proceedings from a conference

10-11 November 1993

Studies in Research Ethics No. 5
G6teborg, Sweden: Centre for Research
Ethics, 1995

foreward, 130p, notes on contributors,
conference programme, list of participants
$12 paper

 

 

 

 

Winter & Spring 1995

Between the Species

 

 

 

 

 




_._"";s§.z%?;i1§$§§§$zf§xi$4j§$§X?é

Vioxx dangers were evident four years ago

 

' Swiss researchers say Merck’s
arthritis and painkilling drug,
Vioxx — which can lead to heart
attacks - should have been
pulled off the market four years

,55 ”by VIQXMMrWPQEQQQ 9&9:
eawvaaﬁagamwbumm £14299 Wreé W

withdrawn in September.

Researchers say Merck should have known
about the risks presented by its Vioxx
painkiller (Keystone Archive)

 

The results, published on Friday in the prestigious medical journal, the
Lancet, are based on 29 separate studies, which highlighted the risks for
patients using the blockbuster painkiller.

Altogether, information from 20,000 patients was included in this so-called
meta-analysis.

“What we saw was that by the end of 2000, there was enough evidence
pointing to a cardiovascular risk, ” said Matthias Egger of Bern University.
“Studies done after that time did not alter the overall picture.’

, a. _ . Wu erckwshould..hawenwnIthdrawn Vioxx from" the market-w
‘fﬁirr years ago, as the information was readily available to the company
‘ and drug- licensing agencies. 7.

“There was no reason they couldn’ t have done the same analysis as we
did, ” he told swissinfo. “An independent commission should find out why
this wasn ’t done.”

Heart attacks

The researchers’ conclusions were based on studies published in scientific
journals as well as unpublished data from the United States Food and Drug
Administration, which was obtained under the Freedom of Information Act.

The pharmaceutical company pulled the drug off chemists’ shelves only in
September after a study revealed that a pay

attacks and strokes in patients who too

The Bern researchers also criticised Merck’s interpretation of an earlier
study, which compared Vioxx to another older painkiller, naproxen.

While heart attacks were at least four times more frequent for Vioxx users,
its maker claimed this was due to naproxen having a protective effect on
the heart.

But Egger and his co-author Peter JUni said their work showed that there

 




. for new painkillers, such as Vioxx and its rival, Celebrex, that were gentler on the stomach.

NPR has examined Merck documents provided by sources working with individuals and families who allege Vioxx
harmed them. They're now suing Merck.

Among those documents is a memo that shows Merck started to focus on Singh in April or May of 1998 —- almost

two years before Vioxx was ready for market. The overture was successful. A year later, Merck was launching Vioxx,
and Singh was an important spokesman.

One document reads: "March—May 1999. Aggressively scheduled Dr. Singh for talk in preparation for launch...

Reviews and feedback of Dr. Singh's presentations were generally positive." And it notes that "Dr. Singh
commanded relatively large honoraria."

Merck paid Singh fees of up to $2,500 for each talk. He gave 40 talks over seven months.

r'" T W
Singh described the system in an interview with NPR:

"One setting which is where I was speaking predominantly was in the grand round situation in hospitals, or in
medical schools, or in the universities, where like you're giving a formal lecture to the physicians," Singh said. "It's
always lectures to physicians. And then the other set is usually these evening programs that drug companies
arrange, where you also present your research, and then there's often a dinner with it."

Merck was pushing hard to catch up with rival drug maker Pﬁzer. Pﬁzer's new painkiller, Celebrex, had beaten Vioxx
to market by a few months. It was gobbling up market share.

Then in @ercﬁfE—g’ot’rﬁws of a potential problem. A large study commissioned by the company showed

that patien ioxx su ered more heart attacks, strokes and deaths than those on the older pain pill Naproxen.

For some researchers, the results were a red ﬂag that Vioxx might be dangerous. But according to the company, the
new evidence was outweighed by many previous studies that showed the drug was safe.

Merck scientists interpreted the study in a postive way. In a series of press releases, Merck said the study showed

that the older drug protected against heart attacks —- not that Vioxx caused them. The company conﬁrmed that
Vioxx was safe for the heart.

Merck gave the study data to the Food and Drug Administration, and the two began a protracted debate over what
the study meant, and what to tell doctors and patients about it.

Meanwhile, despite the positive spin of Merck's press releases, Singh was uneasy about the new study.

"I was worried, because obviously this was something new," Singh said. "This was something we had never seen
before."

As an independent scientiﬁc expert, Gurkirpal Singh wanted to evaluate the study for himself.

Singh asked Merck repeaWata. "I wanted to know how many heart attacks, how many strokes, how
many deaths were occurring in each one of the groups, and what were these actual number of patients at risk, and
how many ended up having an event," he said.

Singh says for months, Merck's scientiﬁc education department assured him that the results would be available soon
-- at one scientiﬁc meeting, then another. They never were.

Singh got tired of waiting. He shared his concerns with at least one prominent European scientist, and he began to
allude to his concerns in talks.

Inside Merck, Susan Baumgartner, a Vioxx marketing manager, wrote this e-mail:

 




Reaction

Eight of the 10 committee members with past financial ties to pharmaceutical companies said that
their relationships with Pfizer, Merck and Novartis -- which has filed an application for FDA approval
of the COX-2 inhibitor Prexige -- did not influence their votes. The other two of those 10 committee
members declined to comment on the issue. Some of those 10 committee members said that most
or all of the funds that they received from pharmaceutical companies for research "went not to
themselves but to their universities or institutions," the Times reports. John Farrar, a neurologist at
the University of Pennsylvania and a committee member who has received research funds from
Pfizer, said, "I think FDA would have a hard time finding people who are good at what they do who
never spoke to a pharmaceutical company.” However, Curt Furberg, an epidemiologist at Wake
Forest University and a committee member with no past financial ties to pharmaceutical companies,

said that he was "uncomfortable with the Pfizer-friendt .derlgggiat he meetings and raised

concerns that some committee member wértWW"§umres. lastair Wood, an associate
dean at Vanderbilt University and chair of the committee, said that FDA should have disclosed the
potential conflicts of interest among committee members, adding, "I'm a great believer in letting it

all hang out." Officials from Pfizer and Merck said that the companies had no influence over the
membership of the FDA advisory committee on COX-2 inhibitors.

Additional Reaction

Sheldon Krimsky, a science policy expert at Tufts University, said, "FDA has to work harder to fill
panels with people without conflicts, and if they feel they have the best committee, they at least
ought to make it transparent," Krimsky said. Daniel Troy, an attorney and former FDA general
counsel, said the assumption that agency advisory committee members are influenced by past
financial ties to pharmaceutical companies "buys into an overly conspiratorial view of the world"
(New York Times, 2/25).

Related Articles

I AP/Long Island Newsday: AP/Newsday on Friday examined likely "changes in advertising
strategies" in the pharmaceutical industry as many experts maintain that direct-to-consumer
prescription drug ads "are not doing enough to explain the inherent risk" of medications and
a number of studies indicate a "consumer backlash." Although "no one is predicting a major
collapse in ad buys," experts expect that prescription drug ad spending growth will decrease
in the next few years, AP/Newsday reports (Agovino, AP/Long Island Newsday, 2/25).

Baltimore Sun: The Sun on Friday examined aspirin, at which "some Americans may be
taking another look" in response to the recent safety concerns related to COX-2 inhibitors.
"We medically know it's as good an anti-inflammatory as any other," Alan Kimmel, a
Maryland internist, said, adding, "But it's not sexy, it has no cachet, and it's too inexpensive"
(Large, Baltimore Sun, 2/25).

Boston Globe: The Globe on Friday examined how FDA "will be more vigilant in monitoring
drug advertising to consumers" in response to the "nearly uniform condemnation" of DTC
ads for COX-2 inhibitors by the agency advisory committee. FDA Acting Commissioner
Lester Crawford said, "We have to send out letters instructing firms in no uncertain terms to
stop this line of advertising and get back to informing the public about the virtues of the drug
and the limitations of the drug" (Henderson, Boston Globe, 2/25).

"Reprinted with permission from kaisernetwork.org kaisernetworkorg. You can view the entire
Kaiser Daily Health Policy Report, search the archives, or sign up for email delivery at
http://www.kaisernetwork.org/dailyreports/healthpolicy. The Kaiser Daily Health Policy Report is
published for kaisernetworkorg, a free service of The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation . © 2005
Advisory Board Company and Kaiser Family Foundation. All rights reserved.

Save time! Get the latest medical news in your email every week with our newsletter.

Send your press releases to pressrelease@medicalnewstoday.com

 




(2) WK” «-——- _., 2604’ '
(a) 6.3L.» 206/ 75”

(a) [EL-9 V 3’

(5‘) )IGLQ, 74F
<g)10c.§,7r4

C7) ﬁrm/WM“ 3“? $9?

(so awwr -—-~ P
. (4‘) me%C(&< ~—--—- 7

"DATE
C“) PM ---~ r7
DATE:
”(1’) [Charon] 7—... ~ ’09"?

73:47}?
OZ) Kescﬂo’x [77 3

[NW #(2 ﬂ? %Q&~
C3) mm 7 (”Wm ’77?

f D! C646“
ﬁﬂﬂé: - f J’J/M (M
CQS,M.:+

 




 

Director to ensure drug safety

The FDA says recent
publicized lapses do

not mean that big
changes are needed.

BY DIEDTRA HENDERSON
THE ASSOCIATED paess

WASHINGTON - Buffeted by crit-
icism, the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration said Friday that it
would appoint a director of drug
safety and take other actions to
assure the safety 0f the medica-
tions it approves.

As sick and elderly Americans
competed in lotteries for scarce
ﬂu vaccine, members of Congress
chided the FDA for relying on
the word of Chiron Corp., the
vaccine’s manufacturer, rather

 

 

than investigating as aggressively
as British regulators.

Critics also have charged that
the FDA ignored risks associated
with antidepressants and the
blockbuster drug Vioxx, then in-
timidated its own reviewers when
they pointed to safety problems

The Senate Finance Committee,
one of three Congressional panels
investigating the FDA, sought from
the agency Friday a year’s worth
of correspondence between the
agency and Merck & Co. Inc.,
Vioxx’s manufacturer. Investiga-
tors suspect the agency crumbled
under intense lobbying and placed
cardiovascular risks less promi-
nently on Vioxx’s label in 2002.

Dr. Steven Galson, acting di-
rector of the FDA’s Center for
Drug Evaluation and Research,

told reporters the highly publi-
cized disagreements on Vioxx and
antidepressants were uncommon.
The episodes don’t merit tweak-
ing the agency’s culture to ensure
dissenting views are heard.

“It doesn’t represent the cul-
ture, so we don’t really think there
is a need. for an overwhelming
cultural change,” Galson said.

However, Dr. Eric Topol, the

Cleveland Clinic cardiologist who

pointed to increased cardiovas-
cular risks with Vioxx in 2001,
said he has spoken to at least three
other FDA researchers who com—
plained that the agency minimized
their concerns about the drug.

“There has been a climate there
of suppression of ideas and
concerns,” Topol said.

Lester M. Crawford, acting

 

FDA commissioner, said the
agency’s stamp of approval means
American drugs are the world’s
safest. “The measures we are tak-
ing are designed to strengthen
this quality as well as our con-
sumers’ confidence that FDA’s
processes ensure the highest pro-
tection of the public health,” he
said in a statement.

Galson said the FDA will name
a director of the Ofﬁce of Drug
Safety, vacant since October
2003, to oversee the safety of
drugs after their approval.

In addition, the agency is ask-
ing the Institute of Medicine to
study whether improvements are
needed to find out more about a
drug’s side effects as it comes
into more widespread use. The
study will examine whether the

agency is too close to the drug in-
dustry to regulate it effectively.

The institute is an arm of the
National Academy of Science,
which advises the government
on scientific matters.

"We think most of the charges
that have been leveled are just
not accurate,” Galson said.

Still, Dr. Wayne A. Ray, a Van-
derbilt professor of preventive
medicine, said the agency faces
an internal conﬂict. One arm ap—
proves drugs, while the drug
safety office tests the rigor of
those decisions.

“Once the people in the re-
viewing decision approve a drug,
there is a natural human tendency
to not confront information that
shows that decision might be
faulty,” Ray said.

 




 

 

 

 

    

Merck's Deleted Data
Robert Langreth and Matthew Herper, 12.08.05, 8:10 PM ET

A top editor of the New England Journal of Medicine says that he was stunned to find out that data linking Vioxx to

cardiovascular risk was deleted from a major study his journal published five years ago--and that it appears that Merck
researchers may have deleted that data.

"I was somewhere between surprised and stunned," Dr. Gregory Curfman, executive editor’of The Journal, says. "They
allowed ﬁsto p'Liblish an article that was just incomplete and inaccurate inﬁsomei-respects and was misleading and may
ha'Ve contribﬁted to the detriment to the public health." ' " ‘ ' '

The discovery (see: "Merck's Slanted Study?") comes as the company faces a flood of lawsuits following its decision to
pull the drug from the market in September 2004. Merck recalled Vioxx after its own study linked long-term use of the

drug to an increased risk of heart attacks and strokes. Now, the question is if that alarm should have been sounded much
earlier.

Just days after Merck recalled Vioxx from the market, editors at the Journal discovered a diskette containing earlier
versions of a manuscript for a crucial Vioxx clinical trial called VIGOR that they had published in November 2000.

The early versions of the manuscript contained a blank table entitled "CV events"--which is standard jargon for
cardiovascular events. Time stamps in the software indicated that the table was deleted two days before the manuscript
was submitted to the New England Journal on May 18, 2000. "When you hover the cursor over the editing changes, the
identity of the editor pops up, and it just says 'Merck,'" Curfman says.

The editors weren't sure what to make of the finding, so they kept quiet. It wasn't clear that the information that had been
in the table would have changed the conclusions of the study. The published version of the study noted a higher heart
attack rate in patients who took Vioxx compared with those who took naproxen, an older painkiller that is sold over the
counter as Aleve. But the report provided relatively few details.

"We talked internally. Should some action be taken? We did not feel we had sufficient evidence to act on it," Curfman
says.

But on Nov. 21, 2005, Curfman was deposed in Boston by lawyers from the firm of Lieff Cabraser Heimann and Bernstein,
who represent plaintiffs in one of the Vioxx suits. During the deposition, which also included attorneys for the drugmaker,

they showed Curfman an internal Merck document dated July 5, 2000--after the VIGOR manuscript was submitted to the
journal, but well before the study went to press.

It indicated that two Merck authors on the VIGOR study knew of three additional heart attacks among Vioxx patients in the

study, which had not been disclosed to the New England Journal of Medicine. The heart attacks occurred in the final five
weeks of the trial and in patients at low risk for heart problems.

The plaintiffs lawyers also showed him early versions of the manuscript containing the original version of the deleted

table, he says. This version also revealed more cardiovascular problems potentially connected to Vioxx than those had
been discussed in the published study.

Curfman says the editors had assumed that the VIGOR manuscript only included limited data on heart attacks because
that was all that was available at the time. "It turns out that they had quite a bit more already worked up," he says. He
raced back to the office and spent the next few weeks analyzing all the VIGOR drafts, raw data and correspondence.

At 3:00 PM. today, Curfman and two other editors released an editorial on the New England Journal's Web site entitled
"Expression of Concern," which calls on the VIGOR authors to submit a correction of the 2000 manuscript. "Taken

together, these inaccuracies and deletions call into question the integrity of the data on adverse cardiovascular events in
this article," it read.

   

  




~ "June 19, 2000: Dr. Singh continues to play up the cardiovascular adverse events associated with Vioxx... I think

there are many other speakers who deliver good messages, and we should not risk supporting the negative messages
that he continues to deliver."

The Merck sales machine, which included the departments of marketing, scientiﬁc education and physician

outreach, had begun to show its other face. It had paid Singh fat speaking fees. Now it was canceling many of his
educational lectures. (— ~—-~ ,—--——-—---

 

The documents obtained by NPR show that for much of June 2000, Merck executives conferred on how to rein in
their skeptical consultant. At least 23 local, regional and national executives took part in the discussions. They
feared that just as Singh's credibility had opened doors for Merck, it could close them.

Singh was widely respected at the FDA. He also had connections with large institutional buyers that were vital to
Vioxx's sales.

Terry Strombom, who was senior business director for the San Francisco region, sent an e—mail on June 5, 2000,

that shows Merck was walking a tight rope -— it wanted to censor Singh, but was afraid of alienating him. The e-mail
read:

"The one thing I am pretty sure of is that Dr. Singh could impact us negatively if he chose to do so... I would
recommend we handle this very carefully... I just don't think canceling all the programs and walking away
completely will serve us well in the long term."

The e—mails show that at the same time that Merck was trying to censor Singh, at least one Merck ofﬁcial
acknowledged that Singh's concerns about Vioxx were legitimate.

Heather Robertson, the coordinator of health education liaisons for the San Francisco region, reported on a
conversation with Singh's main scientiﬁc contact at Merck, who has since left the company. Her e-mail of June 5,
2000, read:

"I spoke to Kirsten directly for the ﬁrst time this past week to learn that Dr. Singh makes a balanced presentation
(he must since he is an FDA advisor) but reports product information that is not favorable to Merck... Kirsten feels
that no amount of work would change Dr. Singh's position, and although we may not like to hear about it, his
information is scientiﬁcally accurate."

Later, Merck would advise its sales representatives not to discuss Vioxx's risks to the heart, and to have doctors send
méﬁuestions to hea qu

We showed the Merck documents to David Rothman, director of the Center on Medicine as a Profession at the
Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He says the Merck documents consistently show a
disregard for the substance of the scientiﬁc arguments about Vioxx.

"The drug companies will use the language of objective neutral science," Rothman says. "But what speaks much
louder is 'You're for us, or you're again' us. And if you're again' us, we're going to try to get you."'

Merck's surveillance system had many ways to pick up who was for them or against them. Physicians, including
advocates with ﬁnancial ties to Merck, contacted the company when they heard criticism.

A document from July 21, 2000, reads: "Communication from advocate regarding a program given by Dr. Singh... It
was hyper -inﬂammatory."

Singh's allegiance was shifting. He was now promoting Vioxx's rival, Celebrex. He was being paid by Pﬁzer, and he
was telling his audiences that Merck had refused to answer his questions about Vioxx's safety. A July 2000
document notes: "Received reports that Dr. Singh showed a cartoon of a character hiding under a blanket and asked
the audience to speculate about what it is that Merck is trying to hide."

Merck's sales force was also keeping tabs on the buzz in doctors' ofﬁces. As sales representatives gave out free Vioxx

 




 

ineself or for one’s family.
ce policy is evidence of
trough” hands principle
lly dedicated to paying for
rave resulted from or have
rrough animal testing.
te were to think that the
this country has been and
'idenced by one’s making
e of one’s moral life, for
re “dirty hands” principle.
fled in accepting medical
7 institutions of biomedical
insurance policy to cover
ponent of chicken factory
routinely eating Kentucky

ty hands” principle makes
obligatory, consider the
)pose, to bolster sagging
3yists got sympathetic
ion authorizing employers
s a tax free employment
All working, red-blooded

government subsidized

tof the meat industry were
nake it unacceptable and
one boycott its products,
' strong reason to oppose
rsurance” legislation as
me should reject health
unds. Indeed, one should
1 representatives to repeal
nsurance. It amounts to an
an unjust industry. One
3’, in sneer-quotes or refer
surance” in witness to the
remism for a scheme that
essings of injustice at a
s on the dollar.
cognizes that we live in an
vorld. Guided by whatever
cepts, it does all the heavy
ould make us painstakingly
| our ethical analyses and
we all heirs to world stained
ees. But, when one singles
pecial attention, organizes

 

Winter & Spring 1995

SW Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

at- ’s life around the project of publicizing and decrying
Taiin the strongest moral terms, the pragmatic efﬁcacy
«lithe bridge principle inexorably asserts itself.
ivocates for animals who are vegetarians on principle
mow its force very well.
ﬁThere are three common irresponsible uses of the
It: dge principle. The polyanna uses the bridge principle
deceptively.” For peace of mind’s sake, she ignores
{Cf-idence of evil and wrongdoing as would be
'~ghhghted by her theory of moral costs. She uses
if hemisms to describe the wrongs she can’t help but
Hf: about, wishftu thinks that since the costs actually
:3; ’d to bring her what she wants were “not necessary,”
:‘lie is at liberty to accept all the beneﬁts of her culture
in y. By her own lights, the polyanna’s hands are
limost always clean enough. The fanatic uses the
rinciple rigoristically, finds tincture of taint in
:Terming, uses the language of moral outrage to
ai: v 'be it and lives a life of ﬁerce self-denial. Like
H MacBeth, her hands are never clean enough. The
I15".ocrt'te accepts much of the rhetoric of the fanatic,
it 6 seem insensitive. Her conscience resembles the
.a’téatic’s, but she lives, to all appearances, like the
lifo'lyanna, only with guilt.
Diagnosing these moral pathologies, whether in
w‘thers or in oneself, is a popular diversion. When
uhtivated, we can drive our index of suspicion very
,gi’gh, but since we know our motivating reasons by
in active inference rather than directly and immediately,
{re owing with certainty is impossible. If Kant is right
i" . we cannot be certain of our own goodness, it would
"' I that certainty about our vices would be unattain-
file too. He says,
It is in fact absolutely impossible by experi-
ence to discern with compete certainty a single
case in which the maxim of an action, however
much it may conform to duty, rested solely on
moral grounds and on the conception of one’s
duty. It sometimes happens that in the most
searchng self-examination we can find
nothing except the moral ground of duty which
could have been powerful enough to move us
to this or that good action and to such great
' sacriﬁce. But from this we cannot by any means
conclude with certainty that a secret impulse
of self-love, falsely appearing as the idea of
duty, was not actually the true determining
cause of the will.” (Kant, 1785, p. 23).

The Theory of Moral Costs and
the Bridge Principle

A mass mailing I received from PETA finds its
chairperson, Alex Pacheco, claiming that six to eight
million animals die every month in biomedical research
institutions. He claims that most of these deaths are
“unnecessary.” He urges that the reader sign an enclosed
petition expressing opposition to the animal cruelty
cycle and that one Write one’s congressional represent~
atives recommending their support for animal rights. '
Pacheco’s message is powerful. But his letter is
noteworthy for what it did not include (and as far as I
know, has never included). It did nOt include a
“Physician’s ” in
fora medic alert” 1 i '
a conscience-b 2- o medical or sur’ .
rventions based on animal testing, nor does he

 

 

'” recommend that the mama as

an employment beneﬁt, nor does he enclose a petition
to one’s congressional representatives urging defeat
of national health care reform legislation, the goal of
which is to expand access to the blessings of injustice
for all Americans. If we accept Pacheco’s argument,
stopping the slaughter is mandatory. But refusing to
beneﬁt from it is too.

Suppose we accept Pacheco’s numbers at face value.
Suppose we accept his claim that most of the animal
death inﬂicted by the biomedical research industry is
unnecessary. Suppose we even accept the implication
that an extravagant, unnecessarily high price was paid
for the distilled benefits of biomedical research.
Nevertheless, the price, even if “too high,” has been
paid. The causal history is what it is. And surely the
permissibility of buying and using these beneﬁts, and
having insurance to reduce their out-of-pocket expense
rests on an assessment of their actual history, not upon
a hypothetical history in which only minimally
necessary costs were paid.

One cannot rationalize one’s way to the “clean-
enough hands principle” to justify buying goods one
knows to have been stolen by pointing out that the thief
knew how, or should have known how, or could have
afforded to get them legally. Indeed, the thief ’s stealing/
fencing becomes more objectionable ethically and the
reasons to avoid beneﬁting from it get ethically stronger
when his thievery is “unnecessary.” Similarly it won’t
do to say that it is all right to buy a product whose
actual causal history included moral costs one has

 

l-IWnter & Spring 1995

Between the Species

 




Health & Science

Part 2: Did Merck Try to Censor Vioxx Critics?

by Snigdha Prakash

More In This Report

0 June 0. 200R .
Part 1: Documents Suggest Merck Trled

to Censor Vioxx Critics

Med Schools & Drug Firm
Funds

An informal survey of medical schools by
NPR found that some schools rely on
funding from pharmaceutical and other
health- industry sources.

The issue is taking on increasing
importance. Government funding for
medical research is not expected to
increase in coming years and could
decline. Medical schools will be more
reliant on private, for-proﬁt industry for
funding. That raises concerns about
academic freedom and restrictions on
what researchers can and cannot say in
print and in public

0 June 0. 2005
Full Story

, June 9, 2005 - Because of intense interest in this
report, NPR has decided to present a full transcript.

Introduction: NPR's story about Merck and its efforts to suppress safety
concerns about the painkiller Vioxx continues with a look at how Merck
exerted its inﬂuence in the world of top medical institutions. NPR's
Snighda Prakash presents part two of her report.

Transcript: Dr. Louis Sherwood's campaign to "ﬁx" Vioxx critic Gurkirpal
Singh began with a series of phone calls to Singh's bosses at Stanford
University.

"I don't usually receive phone calls on a Saturday at home from
representatives of drug companies," says James Fries, a professor of
medicine at Stanford. "So it was deﬁnitely unusual."

The call came Oct. 28, 2000. " I received a call from a medical director
at Merck, stati that so one on my staff had been making wild and
irresponsible public statements about the cardiovascular side effects of
Vioxx," Fries says. He says Sherwood hinted there would be repercussions
for Fries and Stanford if Singh's statements didn't stop. He was left with the
sense that Merck's ﬁnancial support to Staan

w

 

w

Fries started making calls of his own and learned that resear .. at seven
other institutions, including the University of Minnesota, the University/7)?“
T'exas Southwestern and a Harvard teaching hospital, had also raised
doubts about Vioxx's safety. Sherwood had placed calls to those institutions
as 'vvellﬁ

"A number of investigators who had spoken publicly had been called or the

chairs of their departments had been called, "Fries says. "The deans of their medical schools, and a variety of veiled
and not so veiled threats had been made —— that they were saying bad things about the drug company, and that the
people to whom they reported should take steps to see that this stopped."

At Merck, Medical Director Sherwood wrote an e-mail to bring the marketing department up to speed. NPR has
obtained that e—mail. It suggests that part of Merck's strategy to suppress criticism was intimidation. The e-mail,

dated Nov. 7, 2000, reads:

"Fries and I discussed getting Singh to stop making the outrageous comments he has in the past few months... I will
keep the pressure on and get others at Stanford to help."

Sherwood advises one of the marketing executives how to pressure Singh himself. He says: "Tell Singh that we've
told his boss about his Merck-bashing." And tell him, " should it continue, further actions will be necessary (don't

deﬁne it.) "

Lisa Bero is a professor of clinical pharmacy and health policy at the University of California, San Francisco. She's
done extensive research showing how funding from drug companies inﬂuences academic science. She reviewed

Sherwood's email at NPR's request.

 




CorpWatch: USA: As Doctors Write Prescriptions, Drug Companies Write Checks 21/9/04 9:58 AM

Cantata“ 331262232229

 

 

. '_ _ _ Ea Eﬁﬂaﬁpage
Home » 3.9.9 226.635 9;: y32a2r22'236.'eu3.:r;53:14 L96 USA :.A's DCz‘i‘OiS Write. _ .
Q. Pt':22tr-':' ref-'9.

 

by 9399:2299:- Harris , ﬂew Yes-2'39 Times
32226263 327232, 323336.334

,. . . Search £2633 222296232:
2' 22$1:.-,C>C:CI 922'3'2'9'93 3'2: 2 2326'- 22'. -.3'23 =.2:'2 9'33 9229.2. 232- . g3
' 3-3.". 233.23: 32“; NP: :323221'2 3283-2 :3: .::: :-' 232 33: 3:23 2'25 2" 2 .' : . i z.
. éSearch Site
' ' 6.36.3: 6-222 32312222 26632263333321: 232:2-2'322-.
2‘23 :1'38533Ci3 312253. NC}: E33315?! 33-? I. 3: E ‘- ..‘-.".:I.: ' = :232922
223-21“- ..9 22323313222322 366.2222 S6'22232'222-12-3 _ ' 2' " :2 ' ' 922923393233: 22mg

 

999399699929
:6‘31.~.622"::::-a'292223329

'Eiii"3{=03"- '36,! ‘9-3 2 . :.' . .2 3: ‘. ' ' :.:- 2 .. j :6" 2' - 6386333963221” .:22

E:'|Ia‘:
.ihx. .6 .5

6.322 2226-3 4:22:22 3626-3222526 9 :5 ' ' 3' '- ' :-‘ ' : -'-'9"-.:"-,-' 223g 233.23.26.23 63:33.3
323-: 233323: 5'28 .::- '-3'2:'2.-".~<2:2 3?: .‘.-9:322:59 ",2: : . : ' ..:-' :.'... 932333333 -- 52-23:: 9335-22.
33332295 3:22:32 33: 32:3-.;:-;.-'-12-.3'22.'-" "'- -5: 3=-: 12:32:63, -.2: -'2-.3 32363-53: .2623 3.2.3 -33

fray-2'32 32639632925 32:99-13: 3: 2392:5633 -:'.

T-I'ze 9:333 2:23:33 6333' 333%? 5'3“" .. ' (35‘6“ 5‘99"}?

'3~32(..-.-t-.6L3\£2 , :-'. - i:"'6. 31:.

9-223 r22.": 32": "622362-3'w-s.
2-3-- -- 2-6-3339 62-226. .-.-. L332"!
. “ _.

'. '3.‘

'"326363339333563u'253 saw-93:3 2:92: :23'292 .629". 332.6232}: - 2.. 32399-2233 39622: 362 :-:'2
34.6.2332” 3"?!”- .323 323225-9922. .'22' ="'9':36.é 36': 623-2223; I.‘-"_. :322-13- 2239: 3'2 I: 629223--
.:3.'2.322:92 :22'2: 6232-22: 9222-33

3132313263 3'26: 226-.
1.6633 :22222-33' 6.' :26.
93. 22:33:: .:2923: 23
aiterreaetavasﬂi
5329222392u3aﬁir2<2 2322-...6-
22‘223 32-3-13 Cii’UQ-‘L

AI

62'3-"-5'22.', 3-62-6262
3.3" :' '~'

0
.4;'

223.3329 23.2 3: - " if‘:‘-.’-’:3£1t§::t':)2‘:$ .3223'
“239.2 9339.6; 2’9‘3’23C:2 32.62:"- -, - . _ .

{32233-3323 32:" “ENE--3". -:'-3'. . 2‘-::2'.:-'.3.'2'2-:3.-."3:.=2:3'.'a:21‘393
6461-2222992:- .2932- 22 6.33 2223: 3:6. 63: '92-'22:- 63-3- 6 .22.

. -' =.-' 5962932222 -'. ..-' ' 222233262'223622-6 ,
92.6-26.2 '2'22-9- 32-32 '26; . :3 .. .-= ,. -':.--:: 3:393 2.: .2233! 232:... 3229; 3:23:32

http://www.corpwatch.org/article.php?id=l1395 Page 1 of 4

 




 

 

”/7 Culture & Animals
V Foundation

(W2 DEA/7”
.9/wk

_ T...— '7’
ZAQV NY$NQFZZ
Tue/C 7

.,—-—' V Mg '
6;) N06 [8,2236%F9g/47’ 2‘

7T+Ie 7

(no) 16310 “I"?
(I7) Dwﬂfﬁta‘ﬁk‘.

Respect for freedom knows no boundaries.

 

3509 Eden Croft Drive, Raleigh, NC 27612 0 (919) 782-3739

 

 




was no evidence of that naproxen had a protective effect. They added that
the results of the 2000 study should have set alarm bells ringing at Merck.

They claim that Vioxx may have been given a more favourable evaluation
than was appropriate because testing was carried out under Merck’ s
guidance.

Small doses

Egger, who heads the department of social and preventive medicine at Bern
University, says his r; j..s§dwﬁhatmth&efl$k$ éoli.,,,.VI(”gang/glare.arm»

perIod of use.

‘Even small doses of Vioxx were associated with a risk of myocardial
infarction, ” he added.

The results contradict statements from Merck, which claims that the drug
was only a danger to patients who took it for more than 18 months.

Egger’s analysis was already underway when Merck announced the
withdrawal of the drug in September.

At the time, Egger and mm were considering whether to go public about the
risks of taking the painkiller, but Merck’s decision forced them to move up
their timetable.

“The editors at Lancet probably [decided] to publish this article on short
notice because they felt there were important issues surrounding the
withdrawal of Vioxx,” Egger told swissinfo.

“Possibly it will help clarify when Merck could have known about the risks
related to this drug and also help us find out what happened.”

Lawsuits

Merck is under heavy pressure from patients, the US Congress and the
stock market following the withdrawal of Vioxx.

Hundreds of lawsuits have been filed against the company, which could
stand to lose billions of dollars according to some financial analysts.

The Wall Street Journal also revealed earlier this week that internal e-mails
and marketing material allegedly showed that the company knew about the
risks associated with Vioxx back in 2000.

, $1 in a statement on Friday that it “was vigilant in monitoring and

The company said it also contested the conclusion that the drug should
have been withdrawn several years ago.

swissinfo, Scott Capper

 

URL of this story

http .'//www. swissinfo. org/sen/Swissinfo. htm/ ?siteSect= 1 05&sid=531 81 1 6
Related Sites

National Science Foundation: http://www.snf.ch/defau/t_en.asp
Merck: http://www.mercl<.com/

Department of social and preventive medicine, Bern University:

 




http:/ / www.cspinet.org / integrity / press/ 200502251.html

Conﬂicts of Interest on COX-2 Panel

Research from CSPI's Integrity in Science
Project

posed by painkillers known as Cox-2

which . : «new-Bextra and Vioxx.
The former two drugs are manufactured by Pfizer.
The latter is manufactured by Merck. Novartis
also has a Cox-2 inhibitor in its pipeline
.. thezhearingythe FDA advisory panel
“voted to keep all three on fhe market, though with ’
m; heightened warnings about the dangers posed
by this class of drugs.

.At thereq‘uest of the New York Times, the
i.” i ' “:3 u7'ieiPE—bli‘fifl’nterest evaluated
the .  experts chosen by the FDA to
evaluate these drugs. The ' ‘ reseach
.. uncovered affiliations between
*éﬁthatﬁewed%ﬁtheco‘mmiﬂeeandthethree <.
aﬁgﬁufacturers 9f. CQXrEZinhibitors. This would
appear to be a direct violation of the Federal
Advisory Committee Act, which prohibits
scientists with direct conﬂicts of interest from serving
on panels offering advise to federal regulatory
agencies. 3* 3*:«3 Mamas-aw. iglﬁgﬁﬁkiéﬂﬂﬁhExingiog.i.-.LI";
drug manufacturers, though not the three
with products under consideration at the meeting.

 

 

According to a New York Times analysis of
the votes, the advisory committee would have voted

against Bextra and Vioxx staying on the
market had scientists with conﬂicts of interest been

excluded from the vote.

 




., x
g ’w? «M View? m»; ’c .4 M” We; 2?. a}

Merck's High-Stakes Mistake
Matthew Herper and Robert Langreth, 12.09.05, 11:50 AM ET

Mines long stood outﬁmqggxgrug companiessfomtsasterlingfsﬁentlﬁmeputatwn. Now the maker of Vioxx may suffer
long-term consequences for a case of scientific misconduct that occurred five years ago.

Yesterday, editors-«at The New England Journal of Medicine- publishedgnlinﬁan- "rEgchessiongogConcerg," which says that
data-were- eleleted from the manuscript .of the. biggeststudyéoméioatx .mforetitreaclmed,:t‘%;Journlal. In an interview, Gary
Curfman, an executive editor at the Journal, said that a computer disk had shown thaQQegdataegmeludingpthreeheartw.
attackwff‘exredbypatients taking Vioxx, had been deleted by Merck (nyse: MRK - news - people ). Two Merck scientists

were co-authors of the paper, including Alise Reicin, an executive who helped manage Vioxx's development and has been
called as a Merck witness in court.

Garret FitzGerald, a pharmacologist at the University of Pennsylvania, said he was waiting to hear Merck's side of the

story. But if the accusations are true, Walled-.delibetategtgomittingedata-fromjitahe""m‘ariusc‘ript‘"extraordinarily serious." He
added, "If that's what they actually did, it's extraordinarily stupid."

It could also be extraordinarily expensive.

According to some analysts, legal expenses could cost the drug giant tens of billions of dollars. Merck faces some 6,000
lawsuits following the recall of Vioxx in 2004, after research revealed it could pose cardiovascular risksvr-rThe Journal's

~allegations, if true,»could- potentially bolster. those suits. Jugprs in one case are currently deliberating and could reach a
verdict today.

The company is struggling as potential legal liability and a dearth of new drugs weighs on its stock; it recently announced
it would eliminate 7,000 jobs, or 11% of its workforce. The academic researcher who headed up the trial could potentially
face an investigation by her own university if the Journal's allegations pan out.

It has long been known that three heart attacks that occurred in the study, known as VIGOR, were not included in the
Journal article. Eric Topol, chairman of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic, noted the difference in a letter published in The
New England Journal of Medicine last December. But previously, many had assumed the data had been left out. That

data led Topol and Steven Nissen, a colleague, to write a paper in 2001 warning of heart risk for Vioxx and, potentially, a
related drug, Celebrex.

The disk discovered by the Journal's editors seemsieginidmte-Qalagl/VQS...activermoved. The Journal has since moved

to an electronic publishing system, but the original report was edited'on paper, meaning the editors had not previously
examined the disk.

FitzGerald notes that with or without the heart attacks in question, patients taking Vioxx were far more likely to have heart
attacks than those who were taking naproxen, a painkiller sold over-the-counter by Bayer (nyse: BAY - news - people )
as Aleve. Th‘emad,ditional threeheart attacks up the total in the Vioxxgroup from 17 to 20., meaning thatpatients Were ﬁve-
‘times more likely to have heart attacks when on the drug, instead of four-times more. likely.

"I believe that the VlGOR paper appropriately disclosed the data as per the prespecified plan of analysis," saiduelairea.
“Sombardieg of the University of Toronto, who was the study's lead author. She said heart attacks that occurred after a

prespecified cutoff date were not included, but were made public at an advisory panel to the Food and Drug
Administration in February 2001.

"The authors of the paper will be preparing a response to The New England Journal Of Medicine editorial but have not
had the time to finalize it yet," she wrote.

Curfman, editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, said that he had talked to Bombardier about printing a
correction on Monday. However, Catharine Whiteside, dean of medicine at the University of Toronto, said that she had
only found out about the editorial yesterday afternoon and had yet to discuss the editorial with Bombardier. She says that

 




Curfman says he called lead author Claire Bombardier of the University of Toronto, on Monday, indicating that the
statement would be published. She told him that she would begin working on a correction. However, in an e-mail to
Forbescom, Bombardier said that the VIGOR paper appropriately disclosed the data and that the authors were working
on finalizing a response to the editorial.

Catharine Whiteside, dean of medicine at the University of Toronto, said today that she has yet to talk to Dr. Bombardier.

"In the event that information is brought to light in which we would need to investigate Dr. Bombardier, we would initiate
due process," Whiteside says.

Hints that Vioxx might cause heart attacks had existed for years, as basic research pointed to a mechanism by which the
drug might cause more clots. When VIGOR was published in the New England Journal of Medicine, there were already
questions among scientists about the potential of Vioxx and related drugs made by Pfizer (nyse: PFE - news - people ) to

cause heart attacks. Later on, the data about the VIGOR manuscript led researchers at the Cleveland Clinic to sound the
alarm about Vioxx's heart risk.

Some analysts have estimated Merck's potential liability in the tens of billions of dollars. Others say that the risk to the
drugmakermﬂgg thegrpgstlesteemedname-Jr} -the pharmaceutical businessﬁis impossible to know. The news that the
once-popular arthritis drug may have caused thousands of heart attacks led to a firestorm about drug safety.

”in asstatem‘ent, Merck disputedv‘the New England Journal analysis. "The VIGOR publication, which was peer-reviewed,

’ fairly and accurately described the results of the study as of the prespecified cutoff for analysis. The additional events
referred to in the editorial were events that were reported after the prespecified cutoff date and, therefore, these were not
included in the primary analysis reported in the article.

"Nevertheless, the additional events were disclosed to the FDA in 2000, presented publicly to the FDA's Advisory
Committee in February 2001 and included in numerous press releases subsequently issued by Merck. We also note that
these additional events did not materially change any of the conclusions in the article."

Curfman responded, "We're not buying into that."

Want to track news by this author or about this industry? Forbes Attache makes it easy. Click here.

 




~-sample.s, they asked doctors if they'd heard anything new about Vioxx. The sales reps would transmit this

intelligence Via voicemail to the company's National Service Center. Another Merck document, from July 26, 2000,
notes:

"NSC report that at nine meetings in the LA. area over the last three days, Singh presented sessions that were very
unfavorable to Vioxx."

A week later, Singh would convey his concerns to one of the country's largest and most inﬂuential drug purchasers,
the Department of Veterans Affairs. The VA started asking Merck if Vioxx was safe for the heart. The company's

most senior scientists were brought in to answer the VA's questions. It was clearer than ever that Singh had become
a major liability for the company.

Dealing with Singh was now a job for Merck's senior vice president for medical {W -- Dr. Louis
Sherwood. Sherwood was a former academm'cmmm op medical sc 1 -""“'_---—-’

M o o c o o o
Merck documents obtained by NPR show that a detalled account of Slngh's act1v1t1es was now prepared for

Sherwood. Almost a dozen Merck executives were involved. A senior regional executive who had supervised Singh's
scientiﬁc handlers sent this Oct. 4, 2000, e-mail:

"I have in excess of 80 e-mails pertaining to interactions with Dr. Singh from March 1999 to present. The following
is my best recollection of what has happened. Because of the sensitive nature of the following, I strongly encourage
you not to share with anyone unless they clearly have a need to know."

The proﬁle of Dr. Singh is remarkably complete," says Columbia's David Rothman, who reviewed the ﬁnal
document for NPR. "One can't help but almost frame it in terms of an FBI dossier, except here Dr. Singh is not
cavorting with possible communists, or possible gangsters. Here the dossier is ﬁlled with Dr. Singh's take on Vioxx,
who is Dr. Singh talking to. It's scrupulously watched and very, very carefully recorded."

The proﬁle was dispatched to Sherwood and six other executives. Around the same time, Singh heard from a friend
inside Merck: "I was told that Dr. Lou Sherwood, who was then vice president at Merck, had become 'very

interested,' in quotes, in what I was doing, and that Dr. Sherwood is "very powerful, W} and
he's going to ﬁx you."' K

/_______..

 

0 June. 0- 900:
Read Part 2 of This Report

 




The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

characterized as “planned, systematic exploitation of
animals which violated rights” because that very same
information could have been acquired by a computer
simulation. The purchase would be pragmatically
inconsistent with one’s professed principles. On the
contrary, the logic of the bridge principle and its
pragmatic impetus together with the moral rhetoric of
theft, exploitation and rights-violations pushes one to
invoke the dirty hands principle. “Non-necessity”
accelerates rather than reverses its thrust. Singer makes
the point emphatically when he discusses the
permissibility of buying a particular package of meat.

...[T]he important question is not whether
animal ﬂesh could be produced without
suffering, but whether the ﬂesh we are
cop’sglegghuying was produced~without
sufferrn g Unless we can be conﬁdent that it
Was” ..we should boycott the end result of
this process.30

This passage encapsulates Singer’s theory of moral
cost. It has four components-that the actual causal
history of an item matters morally in the decision
whether one may buy it, that the crite rion for assigning
moral costs in evaluating the causal history of a potential
food item is “produced without suffering,” that the
epistemic standard we should use in applying the
criterion is “conﬁdence” and that, in the case of meat,
the moral assessment is sufﬁciently negative, all things
considered, to trigger the dirty hands principle—
”boycott.”

Regan does not explicitly discuss the permissibility
of buying and using currently available medical or
surgical interventions developed through animal testing
nor does he address the propriety of accepting health
insurance. However, he does address what I have called
“the distilling process” of biomedical research.
Although he distinguishes between using animals for
toxicity testing and for basic scientiﬁc research, he
condemns both clearly and unambiguously. His
evaluation of these leaves no room whatsoever for the
“clean enough hands” principle.

“Toxicity tests of new products and drugs
involving animals are not morally justified.
These tests violate the rights of these
animals. They are not morally tolerable. All
ought to cease. ”31

 

“On the rights view, we cannot justify banning
a single rat merely by aggregating ‘the many
human and humane beneﬁts’ that ﬂow from
doing it, since, as stated, this is to assume that
the rat has value only as a receptacle. . 3’32

Since he bases these judgments on general

principles, and since he also applies these principles in
his argument for obligatory vegetarianism, I think we

can safely and fairly infer his answer to my questions i

from what he says about meat eating.

Regan concedes the nutritional beneﬁts of ﬂesh--
eating, but he claims that meat buyers do wrong because
“their purchase makes them a party to the perpetuation

of an unjust practice. Vegetarianism is not super-
erogatory; it is obligatory.”33 For reasons similar to those
he uses to justify throwing the dog overboard in his
life—boat case, Regan might allow that in extraordinary
circumstances, one could justifiably kill a non-
aggressive animal and eat its flesh, were one in danger
of starving in the wilderness, for example.34 But one

can not justify routinely buying animal ﬂesh in the
supermarket for nutritional reasons, nor canone justify .
routine purchase on the ground that meat producers,-
their families and society generally will be harmed if“
everyone boycotts. “No one has a right to be protected!
against being harmed if the protection in question

involves violating the rights of others...No one has a“

right to be protected by the continuation of an unjus 3'_
practice. ..the rights view implies that justice must be

done, though the heavens fall ”35

Like Singer, Regan applies his theory of moral costs

to the actual history of items one might wish to buy

and use. Both would condemn knowingly purchasing
stolen goods. But both focus most on systematic,-
institutionalized wrongdoing, whether ﬁgured in terms.

of suffering or in terms of rights violations. Both

conclude that the meat producing industry is unjust and
that its products must be boycotted. There is no re 0 .

inferable from their theories to think that differen
judgments would be directed at the biomedical researc'
industry and its products. The dirty hands principle.

applies. Clean- -enough hands does not.

 

Between the Species

Winter & Spring 1995

The BleSSt

 

Two Thought-E

.:. ur Hypothetical MI
:1“. . 0 se you were right now t
breath and that these symj
heavy sweating and crush
radiated to your jaw ant”
5;.‘33, ptoms were to persist for
{13 also had a subjective fet
lrke of which 1s unpreced

' ese are the classic syr

r arction—heart attack. He:

if. he killer of Americans. App
5» on it 1n 1992. 3"

While your hypothetical IV.
ances of survival with mini
cellent provided that your 1
'3- i o . and provided that you re
"' terventrons within the “G01
' E worse if you delay. The I;

the longer it is deprived
iffnlting infarct. Many hear

gine that’s what yours is .

'3 uppose you promptly se
N . near you. Theycall 91
y, you would be tran
in less than 10 minutes
_ would result 1n the ER’
gently ill—so ill, that
s a substantial risk of
”’3 _-2 Being classified as
wrng practical consequ
mnsent to standard of c:
Ir 3 mmence unless you 0:
.3. ~.. for you speciﬁcally
tandard of care treatmer
' ’ :3 ristration of a thromboly
M em. The likely candit
”:33,- ssue plasminogen t
u 3»: y-engineered versitl
~ 3 y synthesized at the b
the “oath la ” where a;
artery in your grorn
:tcontrast agent (1er
75'“ 33. mt) would be 1njec
31: ~ visualization of yo
,grography Your cor
"3,;one to determine the s

.

3 it {at Spring 1995

i.-
.
,.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 
 

"I‘didn't realize how powerful the drug companies thought they were," Bero said. "For example, having enough

mfluence' over a department to say 'change what your faculty member is saying.‘ I haven't ever seen that
documented before."

Another document written by Sherwood shows Merck tried to use that inﬂuence on several occasions. After
Stanford Professor James Fries learned about Sherwood's calls to other medical institutions, he sent a strongly

worded letter to Merck's CEO. The letter questioned the propriety of Sherwood's calls. Sherwood wrote an internal
memo in response. NPR has obtained that memo.

In it, Sherwood writes there was no "orchestrated campaign or speciﬁc program" to deal with what he calls

"'problem individuals." Yet, he lists groups of Merck executives who managed those critics. The memo, dated Jan.
23, 2001, reads in part: '

"I will only get involved when our representatives... regional medical directors, Merck research lab physicians... or

key individuals in the therapeutic business group have felt frustrated by their inability to reach out or to 'balance'
selected indi ' ."

  
 
  

'es that when that happened, he did lean on Vioxx critics -— and on their institutions: "Without

immodest, I believe I am the mﬁt—Eeslﬁcledmﬁicjgminihe—pharmaceutical industry among
academic chairs and deans... Therefore, when I call them on a matter of urgent concern, they generally take it

seriously... This has been a source of strength as I have been able to exert balanced leverage in some difﬁcult
situations."

UCSF's Bero says, "Well, the ﬁrst thing I thought is, 'What kind of leverage are we talking about?' And the ﬁrst
thing I thought of was money, in all the various ways that it can come to departments."

In 2QQ$Wsch0dngLmemofjmlesmrﬁrbﬁdmﬂﬁon --'fromdrngcompanies. NPR
surveyed several medical schools and found that's not unusual.

David Rothman is at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.

"Look, medical research is expensive," says David Rothman of the Columbia University College of Physicians and
Surgeons. "No one can take a call from a drug company high ofﬁcial, critical of an investigator, and not realize that

behind that call is the implicit reminder, implicit threat -— 'If you can't control your folks, how do you expect us to
continue to do business with you?""

Merck and Sherwood deny the allegations in this story. Ted er a la e ti erck, saysL'LMerck was
not trying to silence critics. The scientiﬁc or the safety proﬁle of this product was very well known irTcTata that'vVas‘

val a e to the pu ic, and it was vigorously debated in the public, and it's perfectly appropriate to have that
vigorous debate."

Mayer says Merck was concerned about Dr. Singh because many of his talks went far beyond that vigorous debate:
"The number of people who heard those talks and who were physicians and understood the data well believed that
those talks contained unbalanced and inaccurate information, and that the views weren't supported by the data and
were kind of at the extreme end among hundreds of scientists who were making these kinds of presentations."

In an interview with NPR, Dr. Louis Sherwood says it was rare for him to complain to department heads. He says he

ﬁrmly believes in academic freedom. He says he only made calls when faculty members were being unfair to Merck
and acting unprofessionally.

"I never, never made any threats to withdraw funding or hamper anyone's faculty appointment," Sherwood said.
"Under no circumstances did I ever do that."

Then why did Stanford's James Fries feel threatened when Sherwood called?

"No one likes to be criticized," Sherwood said. "Now sometimes, when an academic physician is criticized for his or
her actions, they may interpret that as a threat. But under no circumstances did I threaten Stanford or Dr. Fries or

  




Page 2 of 4

21/9/04 9:58 AM

Features

i

; 3(3?‘
jet

E
(31

--s, if :ate
'4’

«man

are:
a .
I

5,.
y

‘eneﬁvz
Ex!
anﬂﬁar

room
.11 n
/ \J

,.
._§
-.
'l
\v
5.5

zxghﬁve
tits to {I

keh
W'dn:
L‘wme

."u

I

.

it
Edi-tar =
l
I

'; {rt-:1)
" 3;

ma
.5. .
MI
E:-
‘6,

3'

In;
.II
III
I
I!"
(l)
(1)..
.v I
I

”t

A.
C.-
« E3 :

ll
.0 '-

‘Jy5
lg,’ VA
I
r
I

rung
er

23.:‘J:

£6
:ouq.

3

ayn.

rv
W
tr

\

- I
«32(2'. 1'.
a
\d

S
.-
-II....

r3
- 5‘) ‘:
the new We

2th?!
=‘0vardn
M"
35% the: tr

.'*:~
.I\
.. .. E:-
(
-.: ’.. "<' “C endgame : .
‘2 JUL.) (12b 23?: .2 it
c:
{350‘
:I 4"“ ';
Ag?- {7
a:

.3

:36
ayforahhu“

> .~ :_.
I -.|
- ‘.
'kv
.'::, ,.
y, (.3-
. f! 'ﬁl:‘ I,
ht.“
\ﬁ 'VN
\; \-

ES

.532 :1
:- -:;:- w -:=‘ -'
-\

”C; 3 :53”

A
i.\
L:

‘

ted:

-
‘ ,3
1 J u
r , ‘
w. ,v. r l. . .1 .
I
)

rani"“'

\

. . ﬂ
'- k:
\rv

ad

.9.
I
,4

r
treatmw:nt.£n C‘

-e;pemwve

3
r ’13
twist eta =-'

I
u

\

Cf
o.

I”

wait:
yew;

.0.

3' i :52.
3. .
H”;

éanui

{Kit
E'iﬁ
TOE"!

.
..
1,)
C
V

.€;?~

I
u-P

t
H
:1;
p

afcmﬁrd'
£35713 ' '

(

f .
2

I"
I

f
I
V
I
I
Igo-
'l
I I

In 1::
' .l

I
I

3
ﬂ<an

‘:\C'

':.E

1"

'iﬁf'

-CVTHWﬁEﬂiEHH r

)4...
”P
d

#18 praa

< i.

w I!"
an“
«Rot
u3%

C
I
I
i
’C
h
.r.
U
s"
d

'i‘

-e
rLg
.ther
c
o
d
n;

.‘I\ f ‘
a
I
.$
T}

rig;-

a
‘1

:ﬁe
30??
awm
Jii
6%..
'(iiln
pa
zen.

‘cz.
I

Kati-IN.

I

C

.t'

-;j§5znﬁﬁeniastya
Cu

', Chi?

i
thek~weres.
.353, k?!
}&
S
3.3 i:
£215“,
a,
f'.
a

K.

I

$2:

:33”
"l I,
. .(
gr
.. J.
‘a
I
‘r.

1. \J\
I}

mtg?
iﬁ: ELK th:
aentf

d

generaéandgﬂauﬁn

')zn
LE3

\
I
I

ﬁ"nﬁemtcrte
IN
V
am

3
to CH1 PP"“

in:

‘tkfﬁff‘

r:C

(

LC?
”2‘

3"

I
-. I
o

a“:
\

:%ough

, a
‘l‘\i
g'ﬂ

,._..,, 2 I

.35"

14'
.I'a

€

{:1
r
x

:ahi Uswy.

Ii-‘N
13 >

53

i
5C“

'53 531

I
‘-

“‘19:“:
5'
u
‘If
:f'
-.

:v
"I

tuﬁsPapﬂ

”It"

goven:

7“:er-
s- ..

a.

jVﬁn
't
s"

oith~
.nonynmtyforfea?

Jt
thﬁuCka“
:€ﬂ<

ﬁt

aﬁ

t

V
)u‘
‘5
I
xii
enough?
: 'Smc‘
MI .0 1.4

.c

.
\J'

- .

.I,

”1) I

’u'v .

;

h

'14

<.
ﬁe»(
D '
£35331
:5-

53.,

3“. -. ‘
b3;
:3

ll,

0 I
E'K'SECE

CorpWatch: USA: As Doctors Write Prescriptions, Drug Companies Write Checks
http://www.corpwatch.org/article.php?id

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




http://www. ispm. unibe. ch/en/home/home. htm/

 




Here is the CSPI analysis of the FDA Advisory

Panel:

CSPI found ten (10) physician / researchers
with direct ties to Pfizer, Merck or Novartis

(including GD. Searle and Pharmacia, which
are now part of Pﬁzer). They were:

 




if an investigation becomes necessary, the university will "begin due process."

Whiteside said she would not investigate the study until The New England Journal of Medicine finished its own
examination. "Certainly we would have to clarify Dr. Bombardier's role, and under these circumstances I can't comment
further," she stated. "We really need clarity of the facts. I just don't have those yet."

But some were quick to point out that, on the face of it, the decision seemed to flout standard scientific practice.

"The way the process is supposed to work is that people submit an article with the full facts in it, so that the rest. of the
world can look at the facts and draw a conclusion," says Alastair Wood, associate dean of the Vanderbilt University School
of Medicine. "If The New England Journal had that information at the time, prior to publication, they would have highlighted
the risk much more prominently than they did."

That could, in turn, play into the hands of plaintiff's lawyers, who want to portray Merck as a villain in the Vioxx suit.

"If I were plaintiff's counsel, I would ask the judge to reopen that part of the trial and let it come in and let Merck counter

it," says Carl Tobias, a professor of law at the University of Richmond who specializes in product liability. "I mean, it's
certainly relevant."

Want to track news by this author or about this industry? Forbes Attache makes it easy. Click here.

 




The Science Advisory Board 7/2/06 10:34 AM

‘ ' ‘

S

i W 3:, 5 :33? Expert Insights from Gen e to Drug
5h 3

 

g5 ' it, L??.d.urnnio..<€ ............................................ ' .,~r‘f..§l W”

in

‘n .
(3-.
r._.‘

 

You are not logged in. Ciiak here to mg tn.
Home :F'orurre Community .‘i ~. '- Studies About Join Today

fﬁenioeriiootﬁgnt
pechves

,., _ Animal Right Extremists Threaten Medical Research
“*8 “9W9 by Joseph E. Murray, M.D.
Hemmer Spotiigiit
:“erspe-ztsves One of the greatest challenges faced by biomedical research lies beyond laboratory doors.

The 5.3%: Log . _ _ .

,. g . Even as tremendous achievements in medicme are made, and as far more are promised In the

=J=5Ci=535’~‘” tor-am post-genomic era, an increasingly powerful and politically sophisticated animal rights movement
threatens to stop scientists from using laboratory animals in their quest to end suffering and
disease.

This should be of tremendous concern to physicians. The assault by animal rights activists on the
. . . . .. . ,. . pipeline of biomedical research and discovery delays new treatments and cures and limits our
Search ability to provide optimum care for our patients.

The use of animal models is an important component of basic research, pharmaceutical R&D,
behavioral studies and the development of surgical techniques and appliances. Contrary to
popular belief, over 90 percent of laboratory animals are rodents. Together, dogs, cats and
primates account for only about one percent of animals used in research. A tightly woven tapestry
of federal regulations, guidelines and professional standards govern the humane care and use of
all animals in research labs.

 

Nevertheless, vocal and active animal rights supporters reject any use of animals, including in
biomedical research. The movement's leaders are not advocates of animal welfare, but rather of
an extreme belief system that places equal moral value on animal and human life. Their cry is
not for clean laboratory cages but for empty cages.

 

 

 

If we had listened to their arguments 50 years ago, children still would be contracting polio.
Diabetics would not have insulin. We would also be without antibiotics for pneumonia,
chemotherapy for cancer, and surgery for heart disease, organ transplants and joint
replacements. If they prevail today, many promising new frontiers of research would be closed.

 

Animal rights activists know that scientists' use of animals is dependent on public understanding
and support. Armed with a lexicon of emotional rhetoric and a war chest worth millions of dollars,
animal rights organizations are working on several fronts to undermine research. They use the
news media to make false charges against research projects. Schools are flooded with slick
pseudo-science curriculum materials aimed at turning children against scientific inquiry. Dozens of
voluntary health agencies, including the March of Dimes, American Heart Association and the
American Cancer Society, are the focus of boycott campaigns because they fund research projects
in which laboratory animals are used. The activists' anti-research campaign is also carried out
through legislative maneuverings, bureaucratic demands and frivolous litigation designed to
hobble biomedical research with red tape and restrictions that have little to do with responsible
and humane animal care.

 

 

 

 

The effectiveness of many of the national animal rights groups has resulted in their claims about
biomedical research reaching policy makers, opinion leaders and the public. Activists charge that
animal-based research is unwatched, unregulated and haphazard, with poorly designed research
protocols; that researchers are insensitive to animal distress and do not take steps to minimize
it; and that results of animal studies are irrelevant to understanding human physiology. Nothing
could be further from the truth, but the activists' claims threaten a gradual yet serious erosion of
public support for our nation's scientists and their work.

 

 

Some animal rights activists have even turned to tactics of intimidation and violence -- arson,
Did you know? vandalism, threats, burglary, and physical harassment -- in order to achieve their goals. The FBI
Scientists are most often has cited such attacks on research as examples of domestic terrorism. What effect have these
plagued by low signal to attacks had on biomedical research? Laboratory administrators are being forced to divert precious
noise in their cytokine funds away from research to increase security measures. Veteran scientists fear for their safety
assays. while gifted young researchers are choosing to abandon the field altogether. Life-saving
--Cytokines, Growth Factors, discoveries are being delayed as people continue to suffer and die.
and Receptors

As physicians, we can play an important role in countering the animal rights campaign, and in

http://www.scienceboard.net/community/perspectives/perspective009.asp Page 1 of3

 




The Blessings of Injustice:
Animals and the Right to Accept

Medical Treatment‘

Lance K. Stell
Davidson College
and
Carolinas Medical Center

 

 

Editors' Note: This paper by Professor Stell
was presented at the Paciﬁc Division
meetings of the Society for the Study of

Ethics and Animals, held in San Francisco,
March, 1995.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Introduction

This is a symposium in practical ethics. It asks not
only how we should think about comparing the value
of human and nonhuman life but also what the
conduct guiding message of right thinking 15'. Indeed,
much recent work in practical ethics amounts to
selecting rationally defensible principles and
calculating the practical costs of moral commitment
Attendees at this symposium are well- familiar with
principle-based arguments which putatively show that
one must neither buy nor consume animal ﬂesh, nor
wear leather, nor fur nor other animal parts, that one
must boycott and perhaps picket supermarkets which
sell animal carcasses (a. k. a. meat), or more broadly,
that one must boycott the convention facilities of
particular states (6. g. those which had failed to ratify
the E R A. ,such as Illinois), or that one must pursue a
ﬁnancial strategy of divestment or disinvestment In
companies which do business with objectionable
political regimes (e.g. the Republic of South Africa
before democratization). Thus practical ethics tends
to focus on moral cost in two ways, first by specifying
rationally compelling criteria for counting moral costs

 

generally, 6. g. in terms of suffering,2 rights-violations,

exploitation, or some combination of these, and the I ‘

by teasing out the personal or social costs of bein I;
committed to those criteria. These exercises, especial]
the latter, are not for philosophers only, nor are the
purely academic Influential political movements pa
attention and participate, but so do individual citizens
Here’s an example taken from December ’94’s Popu I
Photography magazine which shows remarkabl I
vigilance and a suggested willingness to bear the cos \3
of principle:

“I recently observed, in a photo dictionary, that
the gelatin from animal sources is used in
photographic ﬁlm. Can you tell me whether this
is a universal practice or whether there are ﬁltns
made without animal products that are available
to photographers wishing to opt out of the
animal-cruelty cycle.” (The editor answered
that gelatin was used in all currently produced
film emulsions, which, or course, includes
radiographs, commonly called “X-rays”).5

My strategy for addressing the questions before
is to ask whether it is moral mm to buy anI
use the “dim

ch whi—h are currently availa I e. or guIdanoe; I
WWn advocates to:

© Copyright Lance K. Stell, 1995‘

PHILOSOPH

 

Between the Species

 

Winter &. Spring 1995 g

The Bless

 

-s: Tom Regan and Pe

I e my strategy by aski
‘ger 3 principles make it]

medIcal and surgical inteI
‘ ent standard of care
,II I thetical myocardial infaI

.. I If (ﬁrst-person case), an
. II dard of care on behalf of:

I Ie ’s own child suffering
ly -bonded, second-pert
My analysis extends b
in g permits or obliges
I 5E: If because moral philo
to the degree one’ 5 view
II ust be universalizabl
licattons should be endor
. id be indifferent whetht

I commitment fall on or

is no grounds for suppos
VIew of moral reasons, bI
#-
“From an ethical point 0
is I who benefit from
dIstrIbutIon of' Income a
' "elevant. Ethics require
‘I ‘you’ to the univers:

though it is contested w
" .,”the biblical AbIahaII
«I kable willingness to
7 His apparent indiffer‘
‘. 5 costs partly explains wt
of faith, God directs A
I where he 13 to saaiﬁce.
II am and his wife Sarah
because of their advanI
. jn and blood evidence a
dance with a covenantI
Abraham’s descendatt
W sky on the condition
I‘ ence Presumably, h
‘Iam saCrifice himself
,.I. am would have done’:
0 longer necessary fort
stead God demandei
I eAbraham loved mori
I y, bykIllIng Isaac, Abtt
ly heir, the sole “vei
:I, orso It must havesi

 

1&- Spring 1995

 




 

: cannot justify harming
aggregating ‘the many
eneﬁts’ that ﬂow from
(1, this is to assume that
as a receptacle. . ."32

e judgments on general ‘
0 applies these principles in
y vegetarianism, I think we ,-
his answer to my questions, “

.eat eating.

itritional beneﬁts of flesh-
:at buyers do wrong because. gj
1a party to the perpetuation
getarianism is not super- :
3For reasons similar to those E
g the dog overboard in his :3
.allow that in extraordinary ,
.d justifiably kill a non- i
ts ﬂesh, were one in danger 1
:ss, for example.34 But one ‘
)uying animal ﬂesh in the ‘2
reasons, nor can one justify .
ound that meat producers, ,
generally will be harmed if
3 has a right to be protected f
he protection in question 1
ts of others...No one has a
e continuation of an unjust
implies that justice must be 1'

'all.”35

ies his theory of moral costs
his one might wish to buy *
emn knowingly purchasing
ocus most on systematic, 7
13, whether ﬁgured in terms f
of rights violations. Both 5
.ucing industry is unjust and
tycotted. There is no reason _
ies to think that different f;
dat the biomedical research
The dirty hands principle -

:13 does not.

ﬁe.

 

Winter & Spring 1995

 

The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

Two Thought-Experiments:
‘l', ur Hypothetical MI

yppose you were right now to become nauseous, short
.:breath, and that these symptoms were accompanied
“aheavy sweating and crushing substemal chest pain
t radiated to your jaw and left arm. Suppose these
3,: ptoms were to persist for several minutes and that
nu also had a subjective feeling of impending doom
like of which is unprecedented in your experience.
‘l'i‘ese are the classic symptoms of myocardial
arction—heart attack. Heart disease is umber

in 'u -' o m encans. Approximately, 720,000 died
ago. it in 1992.36

While your hypotheti tens your life, your
3 : ces of survival with minimal long-term deﬁcits are
llent provided that your pre-Ml state of health was
-:=“" o a and provided that you receive appropriate medical
(terventions within the “Golden Hour.” Your chances
:51 - worse if you delay. The larger the area of ischemia
the longer it is deprived of oxygen, the larger the
Juj'sulting infarct. Many heart attacks “evolve.” Let’s
it gine that’s what yours is doing.

Suppose you promptly seek help by alerting those
:7: ~.. near you. They call 911 on your behalf. Almost
‘3‘?“ 'nly, you would be transported to an emergency
amin less than 10 minutes. Your classic chest-pain
.‘f would result in the ER’s staff classifying you as
(-uyergently ill—so ill, that any delay in treatment
'68 a substantial risk of death or severe medical
l I . Being classified as emergently ill has the
,llowing practical consequence: you are presumed
.Qo consent to standard of care treatment. Treatment

. i; 7 l commence unless you or someone with authority

Io speak for you speciﬁcally refuse it.

Standard of care treatment would include prompt
indministration of a thrombolytic drug in the emergency
department. The likely candidates are Streptokinase or
jétpa (tissue plasminogen activator, Genentech’s
genetically-engineered version of a thrombolytic agent

~ naturally synthesized in the body). Next would come a
visit to the “cath lab” where a catheter would be inserted
into an artery in your groin and advanced through your

~ aorta. A contrast agent (low-osmolar agents induce less
fdiscomfort) would be injected through the catheter to
enhance visualization of your coronary arteries by “real
.gztime” angiography. Your coronaries would be examined

. {One by one to determine the site and extent of blockage.

 

Depending upon the ﬁndings, you would either receive
PTCA (percutaneous, transluminal coronary angio-
plasty), to dilate the offending vessel or be sent to the
operating room where you would be intubated, placed
on a ventilator under anesthesia for a CABG (coronary
artery by-pass graft, the most commonly-performed,
major surgical procedure in this country), or perhaps
you would be put on conservative medical management.

I labor these medical details because, for both Singer
and Regan, the permissibility of your accepting any of
the beneﬁts in the emergency-care package offered to
you depends on a moral assessment of the actual
production costs of each item in it. Neither Regan’s view
nor Singer’s permit you to merely hum the medical part.
Performing the cost assessment responsibly requires
scrupulous attention to all relevant factual details that
make up each intervention’s production history.

What would it show? It would show that 1%

number f ' als surel ,man thousand ,.Jnostly_.,-...

gW sacriﬁced over the preceding

years to developevery—interventioancludedin4he—-
current standar LeareforMLGiving precise numbers
is pro lematic because it is difficult to determine
whether to charge all the dog deaths involved in
developing the “dog heart model”37 to the “moral”
account of your cardiac catheterization in addition to
the dogs actually sacriﬁced in experiments which
developed the radiographic contrast agent and the
particular catheter being offered to you.38 It is also not
clear whether you should charge to a particular cardiac
catheter’s account all the dogs sacriﬁced to determine
which catheter design is most maneuverable in vivo and
causes the least iatrogenic injury.

I say that these dogs were “sacriﬁced” rather than
“euthanized” because euthanasia carries-some suggestion
that the killing was done for the sake of the individual
who dies. That is plainly not the case here. These dogs
were systematically experimented upon and ultimately
killed so that heart attack victims (like you, by hypothesis)
might be spared from death and disability. Thus
“sacrificed” seems a more appropriate word. Think of
the dogs as sacriﬁcial victims to humanism.

The dogs were not treated cruelly, our regulatory
regime does not permit that, but they were treated as
having less value than humans in virtue of their non-
humanity. Because the regulations of biomedical
research require that researchers respect an animal’s
interests in good hygiene, psychological enrichment,
and being pain free, it is false to say, as Regan says,

 

:Vrnter & Spring 1995

Between the Species

 




anyone with funding issues or anything else. That would've been inappropriate."

FDA whistleblower Doctor David Graham estimates that at least 38,000 people died from taking Vioxx. Drummond
Rennie, deputy editor of the Journal of the American Medical Association, notes that "each one of those is
somebody, is a real person, with a real family, real people who grieve for them."

"I think it's the job of a physician, physicians who're doing research, physicians who work in drug companies —- all
physicians -- to care about that," Rennie said.

Merck says its physicians strongly believed in the safety and beneﬁts of Vioxx. The company says the risks of Vioxx
weren't clear until just last fall, when, it says, Merck acted promptly and voluntarily withdrew Vioxx.

 




CorpWatch: USA: As Doctors Write Prescriptions, Drug Companies Write Checks

‘ t p
<50: . .2112: (-'1: 2:12;? 2 (12(5-
.3?:

‘:.:‘\I :I.,.lf
-::-.:1.>-.: 3
1‘
0": \I
"lid '02! vein-S \

52210.

531.2: 23012122231325: 19. 12229.2' 21259-355"- 52.2191
' 0200112122":- 5.. 2(21-22-(111'21-25171§(2"2.1110=2:
51.12“.)(3-{3-{3- 823;}:FJ11’29C' 1.11732: :09 me.
(1((20:22§.>2.:(1-,<1210 "Stat"? -3;
2.2222190 1'0 (119-10190

011101222159.- 1; 5.111(- 32223232

2‘3C31E'Z 112,”; 91-13?
E? 'IZIE’EO 111C313? .'i-Z,

NI‘ may
5251.2

'50-
21:3,
f“

«01'?

(12:22 22-110 1:15:
”it‘d“? $23,331.53

A

(ﬁt N-N'

THE-(3232625021110 12': 9112-: =--. (:.:-322193;.
€31". $132.22 '19.?“ .- (213-23231: the 9.3;" )1n",_,:_5_
COHEN-01': (-:'-1336319 15-35;;- 3:3),
~91€Cied (35.352021 1:32 52,315,

m z: 535:1: {-:‘-1' 3:28 {3 3.1::

C31. .

C' “23.2w .'-
81.511631:
1:35.? (diff-C

' h
'i'

9'2 211-29009

100005

"Vi-3&3 : \- '.- 5::
5:1 512';
:13: (Jf \d‘;
:'1-‘3

12112015'22222',2‘-'1:".2-51«:=-'-52122'2e.12'-(1(

§N(.J.p3\.§1c‘53d K‘JWBC‘J-r}, f?~:e'- 033’:

2223: '.~-': 2322-1521.}

(21111-05 10022
. 20.61212,“ .

31’(€1(Ut§

raw:

2-N001N'1ic

.4'

’:‘-C15 252'22'2- (31-1-91:
(52' 22053021100999: 1119ij
0.0901182: 5210-21212: '32: '1‘2’
(-192;- 39:211. (511C- 1:": ("211'- "£12119
(1: (2"2 (3< (:1'1?'5-:1( 22. "((2 2:11-12 (521202

.5 ("710.1
(3‘

NJ

\ 1'
I
13.".

8C: 5

.’.-(i
21‘,
.-N'

~-

1

-§’22i'. («52110510591221 (0 (22 5'2- =-. (110102.11 (1::«112212' i'
112911;"(99-C2'11392'9- :5:- «2,2212- we 12-22-1192:
:'9;1:-1<55( 0:1': "12w 0.12 :1 1:229:21: $522.12 2512.
C”"”:{‘:E(JF:(. . 3-1:?- EJEJ (22995-9 13: 0131115295 .
2--(-- 219121-29 I:1"-2:21-( 1:- 51:11: 1'2."- ='

., ‘e‘-‘§‘1§C’3:I 535' '_f', .....

1:1 1:126;- 5(3559 {-‘:-110065101210 1:121-2-5'i:1(;:«;2:2(212,
50021 2.0 :1102'0991'9'1531. 11.151290 '0 Ca, "0::- 209-
by 123222,. (1:10 0 11:51- 52 112123 '

0:99 2 -"-

521

0.2-.-
315'?3="-_1

I;

u
.

.. 1.2221"- 502-2913131535? 299029'
f I". ""°§‘:‘f""'*ii'100, ﬁrst}. g:1;’i,._3(’
(-0 2119 .0221. (1101: 1919-222 0 911.;

052-5: 01122-2230 2:0 12.5..1....0:(,. 1’; 2.111;- 05' -

..’ .
N

"12

J
.
.. .. .
:11 z: 31-?

a;
’1'

H111

‘ I
‘:'"!

91.12422022212-22'90 5225"- .'9C.='.9-:1 20-. 1mm?» 321C;
1.. :220'22 -121= (12' 21101-5 ((0- 2"-- (.2-
.. Ci 2'1-"39:1 22:11.1"-
(21:2(121'5502'0

r
:' 23:",‘1-3:

0115-0 22:12.11:
1:22: (11:3 2101‘

- -.21<1--. (1205-23 1:-:::-

ijgtE-‘h 'N N'

21(15-«1w-11'0

'n
’ﬂi

1212;152:2519:
53229. 39.43:."

I>~ .
‘5 I:
..A’

(mp-2:212"? ':'-51; [1123 923025291 112213021105 12110
(1299 02'0C-232'1ECS 210 53-3002:
(10010 1321125217 (2'29" '12-" '2 here-'21.- 5:

.01: 1'10.
29': 11910, 0: ".10 2"- C.- 09-: 5:92.62 1.1"."2'0 CC21':2‘;'(-:,-“
2102.2 :15-231 (-212 (:- 2":-

::2'-2: (202515-52.- (- Ens-:1;
2(2' 219: 1' (EC-1:10, 1122212: 26:51:".- 20C.-

. , 4. (’4‘.-
-S ‘1’\: 5:" :kA-E’ nu.

'-:::11-2e-><:2(
((1 12919:?
”The: 10(-

(':3
J3
"""3"1:1: 11:0.

1922.9.

E"J" l
.:1':‘:'y

0"

535'2:(
109.1; 13.61090,
=0: (1' (“212:2 1215-:

axgri: ti" 2..- ES

2'“..“ 0:192
d 3'13

\
0

0125119 C1". 02 212-22-
11 2:)? 112(29- §212<6- 512(1

I

(“La
-\.at
52,511.13

21:32.. 9.2191 229.12. ..'. .
age-551 0: 1'2 1221221 .521:

9111:2113- 11':
:'1 11212 .512 ,‘22 22212-22121.“

aNI'

Nd?

CEO:
(Iii

http://www.corpwatch.org/article.php?id=1 1 395

“Th-3:10.25: 2: "

"21(13- fﬁ'f N073

9191111.”. .-

Aaﬂft"

”C9592 2912-29
1-522'1210-1- 0501'

51“?"‘71
32.22.12 1.11125: 5221(11" (102221-92

:J
(:2
=7"???- M‘-
210 ("£033

2112:1100-1210-
920:112‘EC992 ("1:11:39- :2'

#32331"? 3
9(‘9 201102". 1.992,' C.-

2'C- .6221 1.951211; '(1- 2129212309,.“222

21/9/04 9:58 AM

(-.'?‘2232'111’0 52211}: E

0053: -2" 2221101.: :1. 238338273 021220122.

:1-::- 1520-. Th 0122111 1:252 5e; ('2 2'1“; W22, 2102:
:".-= 251,121-3- $9.2

(3.12331 0:2 2:22

929, 2:12

r-
v: I

:\

(131‘
(01-12

63
N:
f!
‘4

59a: 1':

" N

0,
9.

J.
1‘2

(-'.-1. 2192'". 09:52-29 0 (.221 2.
("22": 2.". 2:22.21: 222.0012 2119 (:2 . .-(2'

333,31! .2( 22§-):€1'S§)111"'7.:d "'3'

u
' 3 l
3'". N)";

'11.
E".

”100122.210 '(~(:'-121(5-:11 101 R112: 1165
220110010 23:5 9 ""110 211.3 929-:
091223 -: 30:1522 1:51:10 22-: 32"- 222:9 02221152 3111
210:2 :9,- 2.222 2'1". 1':(.'.- C1902 (21992119059- 0: 2

J. .-
I, A'Jl'a

.r.
V“
(r

.-
‘o

1:12:

*0“:

1r.-

‘1’“ \4- IA ::\j(ﬁ'

LATE-.'..
Nhairiz

"a
{ECNJN-gx’tej W3: tits: A:

65-11201-51-
92310-1919:

.=.2-:1':1E"2a<.5 (‘1':252'223220 (-22:

19519029

(31:25

51123 :'1-12:00:22 (-51:1(23
583""th LEV-2.15 v: 13753:.‘(Jtz-7g

.:«::12(:-2'2 02' 12123010521 (-:'-21021113211 ,
1:93. 55-2-1, (12' 00:".- 12.6199 12-99:";
2 0519-1151-- 2191-211 (2111221 1021-0223(51-

0;;-

J\' .’ r.-

Der-(111

0(1-121 2:10 259-222(- 1 'e>(1-"
02'. 11:11:":

harﬁ:m
'~€”1'251

"(CZ-

,
#30!"
:22:

3:63th

221(12- 2' (-1(--_-e>'1' 2‘02'
99 ':'at.2.-9:(20221'0C.2--." 2:210 ' (9
Vii-12.1.31???

5:0».

12:01

'0

.-2'§C . , 55: '2

2;"; P121221; =11.
0211:9211. 22021921121221
(5a,-
"5291:".- at C2?
2: 221-. 2:126;- («2((5 :='

w

(-‘:- -; 2..

52,.»
002 29.0
51:2

c :.
55.
2'12.

M
) I
':‘
non-
V5

927:

-212'"1C-
12'25':

if) 0‘1":

u.
\r.
”h

f
\

v":

C" .'

4-.ij

”.'.“: ‘:’-‘2

251305-
VSJNuii

..-
(<5?

2 ..'..GJ
2'2?!"
:5 ’

Ci'JH -23:' 2:0 ’31'12-“31‘.
21.3.0205:-

2?!
if)

\

(if;

"29.2991 :10 ':222 53-.1192'1222g~17§02101':
1;§(-.':2.'2(121': M

126122325210-9500012
:119F£:.:3(:$32.1-Jf(1071:-C gag." "’:‘ Oi: fhg
21"(12 565-111;:-

"1
01-2318 :'EE'QLIEB'IO

U1" :{32 :.':u:

n.)

J’ﬁ‘?"

(31’: 5'1: 20'? 0‘1”

2'::11".2:(-.=32-1.:"19.: (29 .C-.'C'.29.
3'10-
3:1'33-19-"53175,

(121:0 (22.512115:
(31103:; 1:1”;
(10.2- 51110 0:25: 0522129- 0.21: 0':
.1('(."-9 13.33.". 39:90":

1<2(. 2'0 1655115100 6 2'22 (“2:23

272:3: -‘(‘ 1

"26:, 1'

I" '0‘;

t

:E’?"

@3921

A4

-’ C‘

n. ‘

’:‘
‘EL'
92'; 99-
\t‘u"

.E ' éC‘ua fit 5'; 1CEIECJf-u ' Lista<:C' "JP-Z
.. . "gU""’=";"fUQ11'"’3=33‘:'UF'V1"""E'\."'§';

A

‘q

'ﬁ-

132222210 (322?

Page 3 of 4

 




0% TqHA—

 

 

”/7 Culture & Animals
V Foundation

2/ cféM ~4<Ff
C 209 414:. gm

(22) d/“‘°'<'+ CE)“: ......~

(22) MMgaffép: W3

(2") ﬂora “Wk”; 4

((2K) W I??? ZMA

(2(9) 200 $5;
(Mead/<7

Respect for freedom knows no boundaries.

 

3509 Eden Croft Drive, Raleigh, NC 27612 0 (919) 782-3739

 

 




SEATTLE POST-INTELLIGENCER

Monday, February 28, 2005 - Last updated 3:18 pm. PT

FDA drug approval times likely to grow

By THERESA AGOVINO
AP BUSINESS WRITER

NEW YORK —- The withdrawal of a multiple sclerosis treatment is likely to lead to even longer product

approval times for pharmaceutical companies as pressure mounts on the Food and Drug Administration to
improve drug safety, experts say.

The news Monday that one patient died and another developed a serious disease while taking the MS
treatment Tysabri, made by Biogen Idec Inc. and its Irish partner Elan Corp, is the latest in a series of
negative revelations about drugs' safety and effectiveness.

"This is just another black eye for the industry and another black eye for the FDA, " said Jason Napodano, an
analyst at Zacks Investment Research Inc. "I think we are in for a dramatic slowdown 1n the approval
_ process as the FDA wants to see more extensive trials and data."

Tysabri was approved under an accelerated review process reserved for drugs that treat patients with
especially serious diseases where a lack of other medicines exists. Napodano said the FDA may also be
more selective about which drugs get such special treatment.

Experts said the slowdown won't necessarily come through a mandate from FDA officials demanding more
data, but could result from independent reviewers working for the agency.

"If you are reviewer on the fence about wondering whether you should ask for more data, this environment

Such a slowdown couldn't come at a worse time for an industry that is already struggling with patent
expirations and a decline in the number of new drugs in the pipeline. Conducting more studies will add to
costs and potentially delay drugs coming to market.

The average time to win FDA approval for a new drug already has risen to about 17 menths from 12.6
months in 1999, according to data from the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.

Analysts said the drugs most likely to suffer under a regime of extreme cautiousness at the FDA are
products that represent a new class of medicines or those entering crowded fields where a plethora of
treatment option exist.

For example, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. expects a review of a new diabetes drug sometime this year. It is
part of a class of new drugs that had previously raised some safety concerns, so Napodano and others said
they wouldn't be surprised if the FDA required more data before giving the medication a greenlight.

Likewise, Pfizer Inc. expects the agency to review its application for inhaled insulin, but some analysts
expect that it could encounter some resistance at the agency because of its novel approach. There are
already numerous diabetes drugs on the market.

Pfizer declined comment. Bristol—Myers spokeswoman Tracy Furey said the company maintains the drug,
called muraglitazar, has a favorable risk to benefit profile.

 




Tuesday, March 6i l2005200l

§

NW
Healing News

ADHD Overdiagnosis
in schools

Anti-psychotic drugs
may cause blood plots

‘

- .'. .. I...L. '.
M: : til-12.13 . 13.». .-.--\.k:- 529:1. 3:1

::§::-:3.z.s.t::::;ar.'q;:is
Full Spectrum light

builds energy and
health

Herbal remed y for
cancer

HIV drug scandal
Hormone replacement
therapy can be

harmful

How to be medication
smart

Women and doctors
missing signs of
ovarian cancer

Peace prayer for the
Middle East

Raffle for vacations to
help Wendy

Red Raspberry and
cerival cancer

Sa n Joangu in
Psychotherapy Center

Shopping discounts

USA Today Exposes Conﬂicts of Interest in FDA Drug Approvals

USA Today Exposes Conflicts of Interest in FDA Drug Approvals

USA TODAY analyzed financial conflicts of int . , mittees es shed by the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research. These “w M12“ 7' W ~. . , 7‘5 if.-. what regulations $h°
The newspaper created a database of ﬁnancial conﬂ ‘ ' ' , . .
wpeared 1,620 times during those meetings.

As required by law, FDA advisory committees disclose when members have a ﬁnancial interest in the subject of the meeting. Financial interest is defined in FDA
regulations "as the potential for gain or loss as a result of government action on a particular matter."

FDA Advisers Tied to Industry
By Dennis Cauchon, USA TODAY

“ «4 fire". .9 .-.. ». :
:1 - "i’5"75'.c.-mmﬂiﬂmiigw .. . l

5...”,- 5-1 _ M A s.-

“ f1. 2.3 .4, :3“: r. .1

l,!~\~l; ""‘3 ~' {I t"

. @1111. 7.9 [if c van, 1 :‘l 1.] y __Ia.,_.‘jA .1 I}; ' .- ‘tA‘thg pggrmaqﬁLC-w

These experts are hired to advise the Food and Drug Administration on which medicines should be approved for sale, what the warning labels should say and
how studies of drugs should be designed.

The experts are supposed to be independent, but USA TODAY f
asked to evaluate .. , r-i -. ' -: ‘12:“

true.

a; :i i cud

irect financial

II. o ‘. a“

CF- ~" ’3." , ff

1998.
These pharmac
drugs sales. '

The FDA reveals when financial conﬂicts exist, but it has kept details secret since 1992, so it is not possible to determine the amount of money or the drug
company involved.

A USA TODAY analysis of ﬁnancial conflicts at 159 FDA advisory committee meetings from Jan. 1, 1998, through last June 30 found:

At 92% of the meetings, at least one member had a ﬁnancial conflict of interest.

members had conﬂicts.

' -.
.. -‘

"The best experts for the FDA are often the best experts to consult with industry," says FDA senior associate commissioner Linda Suyda m, who is in charge of
waiving conflict-of-interest restrictions.

But Larry Sasich of Public Citizen , an advocacy group, says, "The industry has more influence on the process than people realize."

Number of drug experts available is limited
In October, pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson sent a team of executives to a Holiday Inn ballroom in Silver Spring, Md.

Their job: persuade the Food and Drug Administration's panel of independent experts that an expensive antibiotic, Levaquin, should be the ﬁrst drug approved
to treat penicillin-resistant pneumonia.

For Johnson & Johnson executives, the FDA's Anti-Infective Drug Advisory Committee included some familiar faces. At least two of the experts were paid
consultants to the drug company and had worked on the very same medicine that they were being asked to evaluate for approval in an important new market.

The expert panel's "consumer representative," whose assignment is to defend consumers' interests, had the most extensive financial relationship with Johnson
& Johnson. Keith Rodvold, a pharmacy professor at the University of Illinois-Chicago, serves on a company anti-infective drug advisory board, according to
Johnson & Johnson spokesman Marc Monseau. Rodvold advised the company on how to design and analyze the clinical trials that got the drug approved. In

1999, he designed a study to measure how Levaquin is absorbed in the lungs. The company also uses him regularly as an consultant on a variety of issues,
Monseau says.

Rodvold declined to discuss his relationship with Johnson & Johnson and his work on Levaquin. The company declined to say how much Rodvold had been paid
during the five years he has consulted for it.

The case of Levaquin reveals how deeply pharmaceutical industry money and inﬂuence penetrates the drug approval process. FDA advisory committees consist

almost entirely of pharmaceutical industry consultants and researchers. Even consumers' and patients' representatives on the committees often receive drug
company money.

At least one committee member had a financial stake in the topic under review at 146 of 159 FDA advisory committee meetings, according to a USA TODAY study

of advisory committee meetings held from Jan. 1, 1998, through June 30, 2000. At 88 of those meetings, at least half the advisory committee members had
financial interests in the topic being evaluated.

Powerful panels

Eighteen FDA advisory committees play a crucial role in nearly every major dcnisiono drug regulation._- ‘, : what druggyﬂggl‘gybe approved and
how the pharmaceutical industry should be regulated. 35'” Wat). igiigk‘ﬁﬁahléifi‘i‘ng-. “:3: ' "‘ ' "

-, . _. ., Fame or reject a
medicine - except once, FDA spokeswoman Susan Cru ;" ."v . ‘I' , = Pro 97"? "i'ci'ﬁi‘gif'é "“4“ “ ”35'” ommfttee voting 13‘4
against approval.)

.,
, \

Investors follow advisory committees closely. A committee vote can add or subtract hundreds of millions of dollars from a drug company's stock market value.

The FDA is required by law to screen all committee members for financial conflicts. The law says members have conflicts when committee action could have the
"direct and predictable effect" of causing the member a ﬁnancial gain or loss. The federal agency is forbidden from using experts with financial conflicts unless a
waiver is granted, usually on the grounds that the experts' value outweighs the seriousness of the conflict. The FDA grants these waivers routinely.

httpy‘, .. .. L " ‘fd..dmg.mprovalshtml

 




Track the

Jump j Free "mar SSSS :ﬁSSSrSh 4w QSStS
. S
: A»: ’ i

 

 

Select Section “y 9....

 

 

 

HOME PAGE FOR THE WORLD‘S BUSINESS LEADERS

MEMBERSHiplLOGJN
HOME BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY MARKETS ENTREPRENEURS WORK PERSONAL FlNANCE lleESTYLE LlSTS OPINIONS

Home > Lifestyle > Health

Comments | E—Mail Newsletters | RSS “jg Emmmi meﬁg

g g M S2
"vfmz’mﬁ MN"
§M§*W~€w2§§,§§

- - S3: SS hg SWISS SS tSSg
\“lnI-oxg Drgmta Echoes EarlIer Concerns About m pmbnsmd WEE
ISSIng a a ,_ .

By Amanda Gardner

HealthDay Reporter ' of Vonage

broadband phone service

FRIDAY, Dec. 9 (HealthDay News) -- Revelations that a major drug Topics

company may have deliberately withheld data on the cardiovascular 1.... HealthDay-SAFP

dangers of a popular painkiller are rapidly turning the Vioxx controversy '

Into a consumers worst nIghtmare. gm HealthDay-Cat-

Reughly 20- million people were using Vioxx before) it was withdrawn: PubIIcHealth
Stromgthe markﬁtin 2004 because of heart risks. But those risks 1.... HealthDay-PRES
j apparently surfaced as early as 2000; according to witnesses testifying!

at US. Food and Drug Administration drug safety hearings earlier this g

year and court testimony in three lawsuits against the drug's w HealthDay-FDA-

manufacturer, Merck & Co.
_ j Enter E-Mail Address:
The drama gathered renewed intensity Thursday wrth the; publicatIon of”,
a .rargegExpression‘of Concern" by the editorsﬁgf, the NeWEng/and _- .g g - j
jojL'Ima/ of Medicine. They charged that a majOr‘study called VIGOR, §,Slgn Me Upgwf
published in the journal in 2000 and subsequently used as strong FAQ Privacy Policy
argument for the drug's safety, was submitted to the journal after data
onihreecheart attacks and‘other cardiovascular;eventsraamong Vioxx
trial participants was deleted by Merck, which funded the study.

: S.

E «a» M A E L
SSSSLEEEESS
"This is one horrible debacle in American medicine history," said Dr. . .. _ f .
Eric Topol, one of the nation's leading cardiologists, said Friday. "we Q SK T 0 P
never seen the likes of this." 2% :21 E S g“ g

Topol, chairman of the cardiovascular medicine department at the

Cleveland Clinic, has been in the forefront of efforts to reveal and

publicize data on the cardiovascular risks ﬁViQXXfWhich was so

popular thatesales topped $2.5 billion in'2003. He has authored no less Free Trial Issue
than 16 articles on the topic in the past five years, and has testified at

the FDA hearings and in the ongoing litigation against Merck. Gift Subscriptions

The NEJM editors said they first became aware of the missing data in
2001, but did not think the study authors had known about it. In late
2004, right after Vioxx was removed from the market, the editors F0?§3€$At§f€3$.8§t¥t
opened a computer diskette that had been submitted with the study
and "found a blank table with no data - lines had been drawn but not .

I?
filled in. They did not know what should have been in there," Sandra ls BIgger Better'

Jacobs, a spokeswoman for the NEJM, said Friday. _ j
WIth gas guzzlers now gOIng green, the 'go heavy or go

 




The Science Advisory Board 7/2/06 10:34 AM

bolstering our patients' understanding and support of scientists' necessary and humane use of
animals in biomedical research.

The timing could not be better for us to state our case. The miracle of modern medicine is
evident everywhere, and it's a hot topic with our patients. Open up any newspaper. Look at the
featured selections on the shelves of your local bookstore. Visit the popular health websites on
the Internet. The results of groundbreaking studies are picked up by the local newspapers and
extolled by science reporters on nightly newscasts. And that news has just begun to flow: ongoing
genetic research will reveal the sources and biochemical pathways of disease, leading the way to
safer, precise and more powerful treatments.
WT"-,‘.‘§

~ . . . ‘11,. 3': 9 via“ - -malning
94% respondents? How vulnerable are those people to the fare I n of emotive appeals put
forth by animal rights activists? There is much work ahead if they are to fully understand and
appreciate the necessity of animal research in medicine. The linkages between scientists' work
with animals and recent medical advances must be firmly established in the public's mind.

i
1.1} .

_ . . " 3 _-) ’1 .. v .
a‘l'H; - (‘1):{4 . (34:31:! I "5'14“. Kim?) :3 H z, :. 11:53.31 WV 1:: \I,’ 13:5! :1 i_ it]. {\‘w‘ 3.1-;
":..‘: w z-‘ ‘._, , _ ..---w

.. . . .. g _ -« .. . . _,_
‘ , ,4 p .-1 .. , , .H , 1....“ , x,” -. .l I N. ,. ,-_ .. .. ;. z i. , n

it; A. M7..- - 1-. . )~-‘.. I IV, a." an .7 ' in. - l'

~.M . .w». ‘ - . o -c . -“\ ' or. 1M ”w...

g . , t -“ -‘»

Polling has shown that once people hear the case for the use of animals in biomedical research --
once they understand the necessity, benefits and humane nature of the studies -- they solidly
favor research. Our task is to insure that Americans have the opportunity to learn that animal
studies are a key component of research designed to improve the length and quality of their lives
and the lives of their loved ones.

There are several steps that physicians can take in support of research:

. Become informed and stay updated. There are several organizations devoted to educating
the public about the use of animals in biomedical research (see below). Visit their websites
for the latest in advances made possible through animal studies and for ways to counter
animal rights claims against research. Call for more information and materials to share with
your colleagues and patients. Some of these groups also offer ways to become involved
through grassroots networks or speakers bureaus.

Contribute to research support organizations. Animal rights activists raise and spend $300
million a year to advance their agenda. The collective budget of all groups working to educate
the public about animals in research is less than 1% of that.

Don't hesitate to honestly discuss the issue with patients, colleagues and acquaintances.
Dispel theactivists' myths and misrepresentations. Put the use of laboratory animals in
perspective.

When you read media accounts reflecting the animal rights activists' claims, correct the record
with a letter or phone call to the editor. Point out that humane research using animals is
essential if the full potential of medical science is to be reached.

It is vital we all do what we can to mitigate the influence of the animal rights anti-research
campaign and to build support for scientists' work with laboratory animals. The medical advances
that we all rely upon today, and those for which we wait, are inextricably linked to the proper and
ethical use of animals in research.

###

Dr. Murray, Professor Emeritus at Harvard Medical School, was awarded the 1990 Nobel Prize in
Physiology or Medicine for his research concerning organ and cell transplantation. He serves on
the Board of Directors of Americans for Medical Progress, a national non—profit organization
dedicated to informing the public of the necessity, benefits and humane nature of biomedical
research with laboratory animals.

Reprinted by permission: Missouri Medicine-The Journal of the Missouri State Medical Association.

The following organizations host web sites offering abundant information about the use of
animals in biomedical research. Most feature links to additional organizations, materials,
documents and other resources available on the Internet or via mail.

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science
www.maiesmrg and wwwckiﬁsﬁresearchom

American Physiology Society
wwwﬁhwagmorgfpahuaffairs} grenas’ﬁmaihtmé

Americans for Medical Progress
www.emamgreeserg

Foundation for Biomedical Research
w w w .‘f tsreseamf: A‘oi'd}

incurably ill For Animal Research
wwxmiié‘mnm'g

National Institutes of Health
httpsf,’www.n§h.govfscianmefmodaisi and Mimi{www.gramtrs.mih.gaow’gramtsfoiawf

oiawistm

Research Defence Society (U.K.)
23515.53?!.fﬁﬁ’ﬂﬂ’c‘iitetﬂigAuk

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare

http://www.scienceboard.net/community/perspectives/perspective009.asp Page 2 of3

 




uffering,2 rights-violations,3
nbination of these, and then ;’
.al or social costs of being f.
. These exercises, especially 3;
asophers only, nor are they
lal political movements pay ?
vut so do individual citizens. .3,
am December ’94’s Popular 7:
which shows remarkable
willingness to bear the costs ‘

I a photo dictionary, that
nal sources is used in
you tell me whether this
r whether there are ﬁllns
oducts that are available
hing to opt out of the
’ (The editor answered
.1 all currently produced
.h, or course, includes
ly called “X-rays”).5

sing the questions before us
ally permissible to buy and;
ll benefits” of biomedical
ly available. For guidance, I 2'
o well-known advocates for

right Lance K. Ste", 1995

LOSOPHYi

 

Winter & Spring 1995

 

The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

_ hmmals: Tom Regan and Peter Singer. I shall further
fifefine my strategy by asking whnLher gejan’s or

 

[Singer’s rinci les make it permissible (1) to accept

medical and surgical mterve ons called for by the

ifftt'urrent standard of care for the treatment of a
‘ghypothetical myocardial infarction where the patient is

Vibneself (ﬁrst-person case), and (2) to accept the current
dard of care 0 alf of another where the “other”
41;: one’s own child suffering from meningococcemia
"(closely-bonded, second-person case).

‘ My analysis extends bemwhat principled
if: nking permits or obliges one to do with regard to
,0 eself because moral philosophers commonly think

a

I t, to the degree one’s view is held on moral grounds,
{it must be universalizable and its prescriptive
if" plications should be endorsed impartially. Thus one
‘ould be indifferent whether the beneﬁts or costs of
ral commitment fall on oneself or on others. Regan
Wives no grounds for supposing that he dissents from
"3 view of moral reasons, but here I cite Peter Singer,
"* “From an ethical point of view, the fact that it
5‘" is I who beneﬁt from, say, a more equal
distribution of income and you lose by it, is
irrelevant. Ethics requires us to go beyond ‘I’
and "you’ to the universal law.”6

at.
~ Although it is contested whether his motivation was
.‘f-éthical,” the biblical Abraham nevertheless exempliﬁes
remarkable willingness to pay the costs of commit-
"'ent7 His apparent indifference to who would bear
iii: se costs partly explains why he became a legend. As
.ﬁ’test of faith, God directs Abraham to travel into the

g‘0 ‘ - where he is to sacriﬁce his son, Isaac, a son which
’7Abraham and his wife Sarah thought they would never
jillave because of their advanced ages, a son who was
ﬂesh and blood evidence of God’s performance in
l ' Ordance with a covenant wherein He had promised

make Abraham’s descendants as numerous as the stars

jldf the sky on the condition of Abraham’s complete
fitbedience. Presumably, had God demanded that
3‘Abl'aham sacrifice himself to prove his obedience,
Abraham would have done so. His own preservation
g‘ivas no longer necessary for the covenant’s fulﬁllment.
3-But instead, God demanded that he sacriﬁce Isaac,

. “o u eone Abraham loved more than himself. And more’s

gin - irony, by killing Isaac, Abraham would be destroying

this only heir, the sole “vehicle” for fulfilling the

, éoovenant, or so it must have seemed to him. (Abraham’s

 

behavior in this “test of faith” becomes less compelling,
but more disgusting, if we imagine that he operated
under a secure replaceability assumption).

As the story unfolds, not only does Abraham refrain
from telling Isaac that the covenant’s costs have fallen
on him, Abraham makes Isaac carry the wood for his
own immolation. He even deceives Isaac about who
the intended “sacrificial lamb” is. When the site
preparations have been completed, Abraham seizes,
binds and places his son on the pyre. Only after he has
raised the knife does God intervene to stop him. The
faith of Abraham had been established. He had shown
himself willing to pay the costs of commitment, no
matter the consequences.

In our own day, Jehovah’s Witnesses regularly
display “Abraham~like” commitment to principle when
they appear in hospital emergency rooms, traumatically
injured, volume-depleted, and then refuse blood or
blood products—for themselves and for their children.
They knowingly risk (and sometimes suffer) death by
so doing. Jehovah’s Witnesses commonly carry
“Physician Alert” cards in their wallets. These are signed
and notarized declarations refusing blood or blood
products in case the Witness is rendered unable to speak
on his own behalf. These cards typically waive the
Witnesses’ right to seek recovery for injury (or death)
on grounds that the physician failed to secure an
informed refusal of treatment. The card constitutes that
refusal. An extensive body of case law has built up
around such dramatic refusals. The law generally
endorses an adult Jehovah’s Witnesses’s right to refuse
life-saving treatment for himself or herself. The legal
status of refusals made by or on behalf of mature minors
is less clear. However, the law will not permit Jehovah’s
Witness parents to withhold life-saving blood from their
immature minor children, a fact which does not deter
Wimesses from attempting to do 50.3

“Distilled Medical Beneﬁts” and
the Principles of Biomedical Research
By “distilled medical bengits;-’1--I- medical and
surgic interventions w 1ch marginally r
‘ ' . edical devices
d procedures which have found their way into
American emergency rooms, clinics, operating rooms,
physicians’ offices and into the American medical
marketplace generally after having been “Wed”
through the government regulated process of “bio-
\_ 4 w,

 

 

Enter & Spring 1995

Between the Species

 




The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

that these animals are treated as “having value only
relative to the interests of others. . ."39 But he is correct
to say that the dogs sacriﬁced to improve treatment for
heart patients were valued most for their cardiac
physiology and not at all because they were subjects of
a life and certainly they were not treated as having
inherent value on a par with human value. Facts about
their anatomy made them “replaceable,” first for
humans and second for each other. The experiments
that lead to their deaths would have been pointless if
dogs is .0
' ’ ' ' enables him to say that “if
one, or even a dozen animals had to suffer experiments
We think it right and in
accordance with equal consideration of interests that
they should do so.”“0 This provides some, but not
enough wiggle-room to invoke the clean-enough hands
principle (unless one somehow substantially discounts
the millions of animal lives sacriﬁced). Regan’s theory
provides no wiggle-room at all. Therefore, irrespective
whether one adopts Singer’s or Regan’s theory of moral
costs, you would have an obligation to refuse the
standard of 1Wmm, ”
p -.. surv ling your MI without
W111, (indeed your chances of Surviving
W cedsubstantiallyif on do (in the absence
of treatment, the probability of surviv iﬁpproxrﬁrﬁﬂy
70%, albeit with increased morbidity). Your refusal does
not make a bad outcome certain. It increases your risks.
Like the traumatically injured, volume-depleted
J ehovah’s Witness who refuses blood or blood products,
refusal of treatment does not make recovery impossible,
just less likely.

Your Child’s Meningitis

We must discuss the second-person case because many,
if not most moral philosophers make it a distinguishing
mark of moral reasons that who bears the costs they
validly impose is irrelevant. For purely personal reasons,
one might choose to risk death but never think that those
reasons could be used to impose similar risks on others.
Personal reasons are not held impartially, nor are: they
universalizable. Jehovah’s Witnesses have never
attempted to prevent a blood transfusion in a non-
Witness. A willingness to refuse treatment for one’s
hypothetical M1 on principle demonstrates commitment,
but the thought experiment cannot discriminate whether
the commitment is personal or moral.

 

 

Suppose your ﬁve year old child were to develop

the worst headache of his life, become febrile to 102‘

degrees, experience nausea and vomiting, a stiff neck,-
photophobia, and over the course of an hour, become
obtunded. These symptoms would suggest to an .
physician that your child’s life is in immediate danger.

If untreated, acute bacterial meningitis is almost always
rapidly fatal—death within 24 hours from the onset of :-
symptoms is not unusual. As with your hypothetical ;
MI, early intervention is key. IV antibiotics (ceftriaxone,

a.k.a. Rocephin, is a common choice) will almost

certainly effect a complete cure if initiated promptly.-

Choosing non-treatment in this case carries much hig 1 -.*
risks of morbidity (e.g. brain damage, mental

retardation, cortical blindness and deafness) an1 -

mortality than those associated with untreated MI.
If you accept either Regan’s or Sin er’s theory 12.
moral grounds, as valid and binding irrespective an
personal preferences, yoWWid a fran '1'
me s emergency room—5
the heavens a ” I you make the trip, yOur child wil
receive 8 def care treatment no matter what y 1
say. The most sure way to avoid impermissibl
dissemination of the blessings of injustice in this cas-
is to stand pat. Perhaps you should take inspiration 1 111
the biblical Abraham—~trust that your faith will prov'1
any consolation you might need. Perhaps, like Ab . 1 . 1
you would offer false assurances to your child that 11‘-
symptoms are not worrisome and will soon pass. ,
Although I do not see how Singer or Regan C1)
distinguish between them, I think there is an asymmw
in the two cases. A dispassionate assessment of y112
refusing to beneﬁt personally from the animal crue
cycle by rejecting standard of care treatment for-y1-
MI would likely win respect from many others and ~
merely from those who share your convictions
personally have been awed by the steadfastnz.
Jehovah’s Witnesses show as they repeatedly ref ’1
blood that almost certainly would have saved their 1i '3
(My chairing the ethics consultation service at a "’
teaching hospital, has allowed me to see this “up cl1'11
and personal ”) .
However, your rejection of lifesaving treatment 1; :1
your child would not be viewed similarly. On 11
contrary, it would be viewed with horror, revulsion .111
disgust. Indeed, I submit it would be so viewed by . '
if not most individuals who are otherwise dee
sympathetic to the writings of Regan and Sing 1,
suggest that we are much more certain that it woul1

 

Between the Species .

Winter & Spring 1995'

The Blessit

 

g to withhold medical

111 tanceslikelhavedesc
‘11 on intuition, reflectiv

. 11 '1 withhold from him th1

.2 1 se of an inference from1
' 1 ng to beneﬁt from an 1

1 cal speculations were t1

.3 evidence of a signiﬁc:

(1'1 es of these philosopher:

'1’ 1n for supposing that the

1'.) .1nal commitment, bu

3"" gut there are empirical
cs" candidacy for serio
'.,1"ere’s why. There are
1‘ ’s “Witnesses in the I

'when the prohibition a
t announced in The Wt

3 highly publicized instar
M'Té'ving blood. Witnessest
1 geeses for inspirational}
:1 directory of physi

- 1;. treatment sans b1001
. . 1. ses have played an im;
laborating the legal 1i

{‘1 em.
.3 '1 g to Newsweeki
1 go MO!) groups in '
1117;) of approxrmatel
:l"l’¢'thical Treatmen

-. medicine ” Not,
gle case where

1., id cut on the .

' 11,1141unttobuying '
o registries of a1 1
-111 foranrmalsarev
1 trsin g gelatin in.
‘clearly aremote, .

 

 

 

 




Health & Science
Medical Schools and Drug Firm Dollars
by Joe Neel

, June 9, 2005 - An informal survey of medical schools by NPR
found that some schools rely on funding from pharmaceutical and other

. June 0. 200.: , health-industry sources.
Part 1: Documents Suggest Merck Trled

to Censor Vioxx Critics

NPR Reports on Merck

The issue is taking on increasing importance. Government funding for
13,1112? €5,332ka Try to Censor Vioxx medical research is not expected to increase in coming years and could
Critics? decline. Medical schools will be more reliant on private, for-proﬁt industry
for funding. That raises concerns about academic freedom and restrictions
on what researchers can and cannot say in print and in public.

The informal survey was done by searching ﬁnancial information on the
Internet and through phone interviews. It found that between 2 e t and 16 t of medical sc 0 '
budgets come from the drug industry. The survey inclu e udgets for ﬁsca 2003 and 2004. (See chart below.)
P—w W
To illustrate how valuable this ﬁnancing can be to some schools, consider the University of Oklahoma Health

Sciences Center. The Oklahoma facility is a medium-sized medical school with two campuses, one in Oklahoma City
and one in Tulsa. It had 585 students in 2004.

About 13.5 percent of the medical center's budget came from industrial-pharmaceutical sources in ﬁscal 2003. Drug
giants such as AstraZeneca gave $818,440; Merck gave $801,858; Novartis gave $677,944; and Pharmacia &
Upjohn gave $591,430. There were 183 industrial—pharmaceutical grants that year totaling $13.8 million. (The

largest grant was a payment from the hospital company that operates the university's teaching hospitals and is
omitted from this analysis.)

More than half of ' ' fro ral§ources in ﬁscal 2003. It received $58.8 million
from th ational Institutes of Health and other federal agencies. That represents 57. percent of total grants given
to the center that year from all sources.

Still, the money from the drug industry is valuable to the medical center. "It's an important consideration
ﬁnancially, but it's not critical," says Dr. Joseph Waner, Vice president of research at the Oklahoma facility. Losing a
grant would mean some juggling, but there are many sources for private funding of medical research, he says.
Grants are used to supplement faculty incomes, pay for technical support and other research necessities.

Waner says some faculty members do feel pressure to keep their funders happy. So-called "clinical faculty" are
doctors who have busy practices and see a lot of patients. But they can't engage in research full-time like research
faculty can. They want to continue to participate in research, so they seek out and accept offers of funding from drug
companies for studies, speeches and other services. Waner says that this pharmaceutical funding "makes available
research protocols that wouldn't be available otherwise" to patients.

In NPR's story about Merck's inﬂuence over independent doctors and medical schools, reporter Snigdha Prakash
details how one drug company applied pressure to censor a critic of a popular painkiller.

A former Merck employee at the center of the story, Dr. Louis Sherwood, made phone calls to the department heads
at several medical schools, complaining about faculty members who were critical of Vioxx. Sherwood told NPR in an

interview that no threats were ever made to cut off funds or inﬂuence a person's academic position.

But whether threats are made in these situations, academics do feel pressure.

"The problem is that faculty, particularly the kind of faculty we're talking about here, don't have tenure," says Lisa

 




Monday, May 6241 20042001

7

Z ". '. .. . -. .2“ .r'». u... ~.
: iii-.2 Great-4%.; tenths-$5335
, .9

‘ 0' I . I.”
f 5.375 1‘. rt???

i . .. J." . - .-"".. ro-o- ...'f
mitt-‘1 :- 5 5 4-3.; '»..-:-: tan-a: v:

SSE-emit: in {53593:

; ﬁtatastics on

2 '- . a. .. . Tl .....

; ﬂamib‘csft-i-t: a}: 5.4;:
it.<;=.:;=:a';?%a2r:-.<;::

.S.5".-:r::td:§:-$i-c-C-E:

‘ -‘: iii: (35: 5
iv? a :i :: iiﬂt‘i’iﬁ :15 2'5; 4:: r:
E the Er:=.-.=:rr:€;=i.
3-" re. 21 212‘ i at Sr.) 1‘: :3 2'1: if:

i inhx'rnaticz‘: 3:”:-'.‘ic‘::»;‘

Many Are Treated but Few Are Cured - Medication Effectiveness Statistics

Many Are Treated, but Few Are Cured

From within the ranks of the Pharmaceutical Industry, Statistics on the Low
Percentage of Individuals Helped by Medications & Drugs .
The solution .7 Wmmemmmmom21m;

91.3.... .. . «.r . a: :-;-. 9-5. . ..-: . . ._.
,- _ --_ n.4,” hp, .3” :- - '- r'v. .. n-r.‘ w. ‘13:; n . r», Mn
"4:1 3:2..2 was-.5- iuuS -: E'ﬁ-ﬁi: a: 5;" $1.52? 51-:5 :1 1:13;.- 2::- Q-:: 31.35 5 zit-:32:-

353: Siteve tonnes", Science Editor; the independent
08 December 2003

A senior executive with Britain's biggest drugs company has admitted that most prescription medicines do not
work on most people who take them.

, said fewer than half of the patients
rom them.

It is an open secret

within the drugs

industry that most of

its products are

ineffective in most

patients but this is the

first time that such a

senior drugs boss has

gone public. His

comments come days

after it emerged that

the NHS drugs bill has

soared by nearly 50 _
per cent in three Other DrugIntel pages on related topics:
years, rising by £2.3bn

a year to an annual

cost to the taxpayer of . ..

£7.2bn. GSK “tinge“
announced last week ';,_ egg ”tum .. ,
that it had 20 or more _.,.-. .3. ﬁtdﬁ , ._
new drugs under ' ' "
development that

could each earn the

company up to $1bn

(£600m) a year.

Dr Roses, an academic
geneticist from Duke
University in North
Carolina, spoke at a
recent scientific
meeting in London
where he cited figures
on how well different
classes of drugs work
in real patients.

Drugs for Alzheimer's disease work in fewer than one in three patients, whereas those for cancer are only
effective in a quarter of patients. Drugs for migraines, for osteoporosis, and arthritis work in about half the
patients, Dr Roses said. Most drugs work in fewer than one in two patients mainly because the recipients carry
genes that interfere in some way with the medicine, he said.

4
l

ynrn —~.v

peop e. 'I‘rugs‘ oﬁutthereo he marketwkor, but they don't Work’in everyobdy."

Some industry analysts said Dr Roses's comments were reminiscent of the 1991 gaffe by Gerald Ratner, the
jewellery boss, who famously said that his high street shops are successful because they sold "total crap". But
others believe Dr Roses deserves credit for being honest about a little-publicised fact known to the drugs industry

http://www.drugintel.com/pharma/many_are_treated.htm

 




The safety issue has gathered steam in the last six months with several high profile drugs reporting
problems. Merck & Co. withdrew arthritis drug Vioxx from the market because it increased patients risk of
heart attack and strokes. Pfizer's competing drugs Bextra and Celebrex were connected to the same side

effects. And Eli Lilly & Co. warned doctors that its attention deficit disorder medication Strattera could
cause liver problems.

Troy isn't expecting senior FDA officials to make changes in the reviewing procedure because theybelieve
the system works. The FDA didn't immediately return calls for comment.

Earlier this month, the FDA said it would create a new board to oversee the management of drug safety

issues. However critics say the board does not go far enough because it not an independent agency and has
no real authority.

Additional changes are possible. For example, at the FDA's request the Institute of Medicine will study the
effectiveness of how the agency oversees drug safety, with a particular emphasis on learning what
additional steps could embraced to learn more about side effects of medicines as they are actually used. The

IOM, which advises the government on scientific and technological, hasn't started the study yet and it is
unclear when its report will be available.

Pharmaceutical consultant Charlie Beever doesn't believe the FDA needs to slow reviews to improve safety.
The vice president with Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. believes the agency needs to get tougher about using
some of the tools in its arsenal. For example, in some instances the agency can require companies to
conduct post—marketing studies. Critics say the companies don't always follow through on such studies.

"The FDA has authority. The question is to what extent are they applying the authority," Beever said.

 




TueSdaY. March 6' '2005200‘ USA Today Exposes Conﬂicts of Interest in FDA Drug Approvals

' ' In the period analyzed by USA TODAY, the FDA granted 803 conflict-of-interest waivers. Seventy-one other times, members had financial conflicts that were
voluntarily disclosed but did not require a waiver. In the 746 other member appearances on the committees, there was no conflict of interest.

The FDA says granting waivers lets it tap the nation's leading researchers, most of whom do work for the pharmaceutical industry.
"The system is designed to bring together the best scientific experts we can find," says FDA associate commissioner Linda Suydam, who approves waivers.

She says conflict-of-interest waivers go through as many as eight levels of review before they are granted. But Larry Sasich, a pharmacist who works for the
Ralph Nader-founded Public Citizen's Health Research Group, says, "It is outrageous that the pharmaceutical industry's influence is so great that even some
consumer representatives are on drug companies' payrolls."

Sasich says it might sometimes make sense to let experts with financial conflicts participate, but "it should be rare and that person should not be allowed to
vote."

Financial conﬂicts were most common when committees considered broader issues, such as warnings labels for pregnant women or how cancer studies should
be designed. At the 57 meetings on regulatory policy, committee members had conflicts 91% of the time.

*‘i i.

It is impossible to determine how advisory committee decisions might have been influenced by the financial relationships its members have. The FDA stopped
making details of financial conflicts public in 1992, after controversies about whether the ﬁnancial interests of committee members had biased decisions on
breast implants, Prozac and a drug to treat Alzheimer's disease. The FDA says it stopped releasing details on conﬂicts because of concerns about violating the
privacy rights of committee members, not because of the controversies.

Types of conflicts

mm vs.“ ants a s ouse's empl‘gymeﬂntan
" ' ' :w.‘ Anlawﬂ’q‘ v—a "

derati‘n ot-‘ic ._ 312 .‘ ~ . . ~ etrn'g'dru‘giﬁ"

”payments for speeches and travel. The conflict could

A ' mus-..

Many ﬁnancial conflicts are considered too small to require disclosure or a waiver and were not counted in USA TODAY's study. For example, a committee
member can be paid up to $50,000 a year by a drug company without any financial conflict being disclosed if the work was on a topic other than what the
committee is evaluating, according to FDA guidelines. Committee members also can own up to $5,000 in stock in the company appearing before the committee.
Advisory committees include many of the nation's leading researchers. The pay is not high considering the stature of many members: about $400 a day for
meetings, plus travel expenses, and nothing for work done outside a meeting. However, the assignments are prestigious, and committee members, whose
terms last four years, are in heavy demand as industry consultants.

Conflicts are most common on the committees that consider heart drugs. Forty-eight percent of experts had ﬁnancial conﬂicts when considering the worthiness
of speciﬁc heart medicines.

"The greater degree of expertise, the greater the potential for conflicts," says Milton Packer, chairman of the Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory
Committee.

Packer is a good example. He is a leading figure in cardiovascular research and has helped pioneer the development of drugs to treat congestive heart failure.
Last year, he led an effort by 150 leading cardiac researchers to establish consensus guidelines on how to treat congestive heart failure, which is suffered by 5
million Americans.

But his work with pharmaceutical companies creates many financial conﬂicts. The FDA granted him a waiver that allowed him to participate in a meeting May 2
on the drug Refludan, which treats clotting. (Packer says he doesn't recall what the conflict was.) And Packer did not participate in a meeting May 1 on the heart
drug Altace because of a ﬁnancial conflict. (He declines to say what the conﬂict was.)

Packer says consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry has increased the potential for conﬂicts because there are fewer companies and nearly all have heart
drugs.

Financial conﬂicts are so common that eight of 10 members who evaluated the drug Aggrastat, made by Merck, had conﬂicts of interest.

Packer says he doesn't believe that ﬁnancial conflicts distort the recommendations of advisory committees: " There are so many checks and balances, it would
be almost impossible for a single individual to steer the committee."

At the meeting on October 20, 1999, on Levaquin, the chairman of the committee and one other member stepped aside because of financial conflicts.
Of the 10 members remaining, four had received conflict-of-interest waivers from the FDA.

In addition to Rodvold, New Jersey physician Carl Norden had consulted for Johnson & Johnson in 1997 on the design of Levaquin studies for illnesses other
than the treatment of penicillin-resistant pneumonia, the company said.

Johnson & Johnson says having its consultants on the advisory committee didn't create bias.

"We don't believe (advisory panel members) would let a consulting arrangement compromise their reputation and stature in the medical community," says
Monseau, the Johnson & Johnson spokesman.

The advisory committee voted unanimously to recommend that Levaquin, an $8-per-pill antibiotic, be approved for treatment of penicillin-resistant pneumonia.
The FDA ratiﬁed the decision in February. Levaquin has been on the market since 1997, but the FDA's action allows Johnson & Johnson to market the medicine
as the first antibiotic approved for the more than 25% of pneumonia cases that are resistant to penicillin.

Industry influence on advisory committees will increase later this year. As required by a law approved in 1997, the FDA will add official industry representatives
to the committees. The industry officials will participate in deliberations, but they will not be allowed to vote.

These articles originally appeared in the USA TODAY September 25, 2000

From Dr. Mercola's newsletterzbttp:[[mercolacom

 

/-‘\_RI IAWARDS I BODY l BOOKS l CALENDAR I CONTACT US i ENNEAGRAM ; W! m i HOLISTIC PSYCHOLOGY i HOME FURNISHINGE I HUMAN RIGHTS i LINKS l MARKETING 5 MEDICAL
FREEDOM : MILLENNIUM l MIND I NEWSLETTERS 5 ORQER l W l W l m l Mi SITE SEARCH ENGINE I ma SITE MAP 1 SQJLLl SUBSCRIBE TO FREE NEWSLETTER I
HOME | E-mail us: heallgrDheall.com or call, M-F, 9-5 MST

Disclaimer: Information is provided for educational purposes only. It is not Intended as diagnosis or recommendation for treatment of disease. Please consult your physician for medical advice. No claim is made to the therapeutic
benefits of any product or service listed on the HEALL web site. Copyright 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000. All rights reserved

 

 

 

‘dedwmpmvalshtmi

 




Tuesday, November 62120042001 CNN.com - FDA accused of silencing Vioxx
' ’ warnings - Oct 8, 2004

_ M. Palmmis
' 3‘ it Powered by @hﬁxﬁ

FDA accused of silencing Vioxx warnings

Senator: Scientist 'ostracized' when he raised safety concerns

WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Food and Drug Administration silenced one of its
drug experts who raised safety concerns weeks before Merck & Co. yanked the
blockbuster drug Vioxx due to increased risks for heart attack and strokes, the
chairman of the Senate Finance Committee said Thursday.

Dr. David J. Graham, associate director for science in the FDA Drug Center's Office of Drug

Safety, told Senate investigators he faced stiff resistance within the regulatory agency to his
findings.

"Dr. Graham described an environment where he was 'ostracized,' 'subjected to veiled threats'

and 'intimidation,"' Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, said in a statement after Finance Committee
investigators interviewed the researcher Thursday.

Graham told The Associated Press that Grassley's characterization was accurate. Raising safety

concerns within the agency is "extremely difficult," the 20-year employee said, declining
further comment.

In a prepared statement, the FDA said it "values open discussion and frank exchange about
scientific and medical issues" and subjects its scientists to "more rigorous" scrutiny than
typical scientific peer reviews.

The Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of Congress, already has been
asked to look into whether the FDA muzzled another staffer who linked antidepressants to
raising the odds of children suffering suicidal tendencies. When Merck voluntarily pulled

Vioxx from the market on Sept. 30, the GAO was asked to roll the FDA's handling of that
controversy into its inquiry.

That report is not expected for months. Grassley's committee is one of three in Congress also
scrutinizing the FDA's actions.

http://cnn.health.printthis.clickability.com/pt/
cpt?action=cpt&title=CNN.com+-+FDA+

 




. "It. raised some concern, but we didn't know enough to act on it," home. maXim ”9 longer app'ies- See the biggest the beSt
Jacobs added. and all the rest in our 2006 SUV Buyer's Gmde.
- Hot List
On Nov. 21, the journal's executive editor, Dr. Gregory D. Curfman, ' Mad Mods
was deposed at the third Vioxx trial in Houston, which is now in the ' Recommended Models
hands of the jury. During the process, a memorandum dated July 5, Reviews, pricing and photos on 2006 SUVs on
2000, came to light. The memo indicated that at least two of the ForbesAutos.com
VIGOR authors knew of the problems at least two weeks before
submitting the first of two revisions, and four-and-a-half months before

actual publication, of the study. The Best Of Travei
3. «'3.

Further investigation revealed the authors had originally known of the Fall Travel Preview 2005

data, the journal editors said. Fuel costs are rising, but fall travel

prices still offer better savings and

And Curfman told HealthDay Thursday that electronic records showed selection than summer.

"a pre-submission version of the study from which data, including the
number of heart attacks and deaths, were deleted by a Merck editor
two days before submission."

 

The missing data, he said Thursday, "would have given a more

_ , . Merketpiaee (Speneered Links)
complete picture of the risks of Vioxx."

Are U.S. Companies Ready for Disaster?
Dr. Claire Bombardier, who was the lead author of the 2000 study, told 1,286 telephone inteWieWS With busmess continuny P'anners Sho‘

HealthDay Friday that she believed "the VIGOR paper appropriately tgihnngaggml/JS. companies are gambling their fumes" View the
disclosed the data as per the pre-specified plan of analysis. Events wwwbusmeseaueom

that occurred after the pre—specified cut-off date have been publicly _
known since the FDA advisory committee [meeting] in February 2001 More Power. More COMFOI- More Satisfaction.
Powerful trading tools. Easy access to research & account

- information. Trade stocks online forjust $7 per trade, unlimited
Asked if she had known that data on the three heart attacks had been shares Hundreds of offic...
deleted before the study was submitted, Bombardier, of the Institute for wwwscottradecom
Work and Health at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto, said, "The authors
of the paper have already begun the process of conducting an Hi_ h Pa in Executivedobs from TheLadders . ..
evaluation of the scientific facts and data that the NEJM published this C"Ck here to apply for 33m” 'eve' 10b °Penm93 '” 3" '“dUStr'eS- ‘Jet

- - . weekly jobs newsletter providing you with over 4000 new $100K+
week. We Will make every effort to complete this process -- in full jobs. Learn m___

accordance with applicable medical and scientific standards -- as wwwmejaddersmm
promptly as possible."

 

Get the reports you need - Today!
"Until that scientific analysis is complete, however, I will not be The most cutting edge development In repomng software gives

commenting on any of the specific statements made in the NEJM. I am fjsgftg‘i’rf‘ag‘wgrgeiﬁe: [freedom Let users Des'gn the" ow"
first and foremost a scientist, and I will allow the data to speak for itself wwwwmdwardrepojtseomm
when it is complete," she added.

 

Online providors of office furniture.
Merck, in a prepared statement, said the company "promptly and Office-Chairs-Discountcom ships office furniture and ofﬁce seati g

appropriately disclosed the results of the VIGOR study. Merck correctly Wﬁgtthfgr’moour faCtor'eS’ free Sh'pp'“9 and “0 taxes are apphcab' -
communicated about the benefits and risks of Vioxx, and extensively mp.waxﬁ'f'ficeﬁhaimdiscoumlcom

disclosed the VIGOR data to the scientific and medical communities,

and in the press."

 

 

In addition, the statement said, the VIGOR study "fairly and accurately
described the results of the study as of the pre-specified cutoff for the CEO Book Club

analysis."
BOOK REVlEW

Topol disagreed with that interpretation. Without A Dinar To Your Name

BOOK REVlEW
hen Employees Attack
. ichael Maiello
"Going Postal" takes aim at workplace

Topol has testified that Dr. Alise Reicin, vice president of clinical . hootings.
research at Merck Research Labs, paid him a personal visit after that
request. That, he said, was "unprecedented."

In 2001, he was preparing to publish a manuscript on cardiovascular
risks associated with Vioxx. He contacted Merck, pointing out
discrepancies in the data and asking for input.

"Reicin was the one who did all the talking, saying we'd be
embarrassed, and we don't get it and we don't have access to all the
data," Topol recalled.

§earch Books
,Title ........... Advanced Search

 

 

In the journal on Nov. 23, 2000, Reicin was one of the 12 authors of ‘ D it New & Notable
the VIGOR trial, even though her affiliation With Merck not listed in the

ch Irlu'c r‘licnlnci iro confinn

 




7 (/IC: XXI ﬂ BVr/‘ZA 5’: J1 (CC! [Ky ffLY/U‘ (C, ELM (-9
V I g 21/ ~ ﬂ i; ‘43 ‘1 r7! my“; kg.) X’KM \.._ i 3

1””: “\_ /7(« C V’C/d f“ 3;: j- ) , \C/

W W/NMVNC (Si/1M4? W 4L N‘WFJCZ’QCQ?
(351: [/Lé‘m J (/T/>

(MK £an 5&9

j/JJP/C

”SC (Ci/C”; VIE RJQQ ((L‘WL’S (4/ (MC. 7 ‘
{2 [xA/L/H ‘4 CEC/ﬁ 99?

 




The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

medical research” (a. k ..a animal experimentation) and
controlled clinical trials (a. k. a. human subject
research). 9 Even more concretely, I mean speciﬁc things
such as thrombolytic drugs (6. g tpa and Streptokinase),
radiographic contrast agents, cardiac catheters, anti-
hypertensives such as diuretics, beta-blockers, calcium-
channel blockers, ACE inhibitors, cholesterol reducers
like lovostatin, bevacor, anti~virals such as AZT, vaccines
for such scourges as polio and inﬂuenza, magnum—
strength antibiotics (cg. Vancomycin and Rocephin),
immunosuppressives (e. g. Imuran and Cyclosporine b),
complex procedures like hemodialysis together with the
machinery involved, vascular surgical techniques like
those used in coronary artery by-pass grafting and,

WW‘
WWW manages
ese medicines and techniques safely and effectivelygﬁ
Wgrme‘ﬂisﬁﬂmg'proee”
not pretty to watch. It has included and still includes
some bad science. It includes some research which,
while not bad, holds more promise to pad a dossier
than to help patients. It includes some research which
is needlessly duplicative. But it also includes elegant
studies guided by theoretically brilliant ideas. Some
of these have yielded impressive additions to the
medical armamentarium ile other research,
Wﬁllimn has failed to
pan out for one reason or another.

The distilling process holds many surprises, some bad,
some wonderful. There is also a fair amount of
awkwardness, as one would naturally expect with any
process which includes an educational component Young
vascular surgeons progressing from crude hackers to
levels of virtuosity that would stun the most jaded
observer is an example. And there is a lot of animal
death—systematically and rigidly prescribed by Federal
law, all canied out under strict institutional protocols.

The Office of Technology Assessment estimates
the number of animals used annually in biomedical
research between 17 and 22 million. 10 Some estimates
are as high as 70 million animals per year.“ The
estimates range so widely because current law does
not cover and does not require reporting the number
of rats, mice and birds used. These animals may
comprise as many as 80-90 percent of all research
animals.12 In 1993, 106,191 dogs and 33,991 cats were
used in biomedical research.13 These animals are
indistinguishable in appearance and behavior from the
pets many of us keep.

 

 

Serious federal regulation of animal use in researc'
began in 1966 with Public Law 89-544 (known as 1'.-
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act). The Act w
amended and its name changed to the Animal Welf. 1
Act in 1970 (PL 91 -579). It was amended again 1
1976 (PL. 94- 279) In 1985, the Improved Stan 1
of Laboratory Animals Act was enacted as part of 1
Food Security Act which 1n turn further amended , 1.
Animal Welfare Act. The 1985 amendments requ' 1.?
establishment of Institutional Animal Care and U
Committees at all biomedical research facilities. 11
imposed standards to ensure minimization of pain 11
distress. The Law was amended yet again in 1990 11
expand its coverage to include certain rodents—gums-
pigs, hamsters, and rabbits.

Generally, each set of amendments expanded
intensiﬁed federal scrutiny of animal research. Fe .. 1
law now requires that cell cultures and compu :1
simulations substitute for animals whenever feasible, 111
research not be needlessly duplicative, that lower an' '1.
be substituted for higher anhnals wherever possible, 111
the number of anhnals used be minimized and that . 11.
potential for animal distress be rigorously scruti ' 111
Documented steps must be taken to eliminate or 1.1
minimize it. The regulations impose several layers 11
oversight to enhance compliance Nevertheless, hones
requires acknowledging that breaches occur despite a]
the reviewing, monitoring and policing ‘4 1

Increasing regulatory stringency may or may no
be morally relevant to how one answers the questions 1
have posed Factors such as increasing regulate _
stringency, species- -substitution, reduction 1n the eve ,
number of animals used, etc., might be relevant 1':
assessing the moral permissibility of accepting;
particular “distilled beneﬁt. ” Depending on one’ s mu ’1
of moral costs and one’ s threshold of toleranc;
accepting medical or surgical beneﬁts that have .11
around longer might be more objectionable th
accepting more recently developed ones, becauii
research behavior was less restricted and arguably “ --::
ethical” earlier than now. There is no reason to suo 111,
that this nuance would make any signiﬁcant, practi1:1
difference to Regan or to Singer however. .

The reghne of bureaucratic regime that struct r“
the “distilling processes” of biomedical researchi
based on ethical principles which trace their rootsi
the Nuremberg Code (1949) and the Declaration: 1
Helsinki (1964) Regarding human subject researci
these ethical “canons” require, respectively, ,

 

Between the Species

Winter & Spring 1995::

 

.‘ 1e experiment shoul
:1; ~1.. on the results of a1
‘1 a knowledge of the
1 case or other problet
" 4’ ticipated results w1llj1
the experiment. "‘5
_ """ iomed1cal researd
1 bjects must conform
1. entiﬁc principles art
. i111 quately performed!
1‘ 1 entationandonl
the scientiﬁc literatti
,1; I
1 dictum thatmedimlrt
%'animal experimen
ents was most like
._' 1 ciesist medical ex
1 which rejected
,,111 enting on “lesseri
" ost immediately}
tat1ves to the Pru
1.171- eitperimentation. A't
:17 The announced I '

,1 tion of Animals was
,._12 sion as one of the l
'r people."181nAugus
1111111110 address in whit

1'.-
“3.1L

.‘.’..among all civilized

ri’ﬁrst to end the shame of
threatened to] “commit
':1‘1tuse who still thinkthr

wimals as inanimate p11
l'ﬁ cellor Adolph Hitt
" ‘o tection of anhn

111 - leaders of all ci

11entat1on 22 It .
entatton would
1,:3 “1’1":ces but doing
of the Minist
4.1171 1’ endation of l f

 

 

 

 




Vreatment

 

tr old child were to develop;

1 life, become febrile to 10 ‘;
a and vomiting, a stiff neck’
3 course of an hour, becom

)ms would suggest to an?

1 life is in immediate danger

lmeningitis rs almost alwayr I

n 24 hours from the onset e I
.As with your hypotheti .,
.y. IV antibiotics (ceftriaxon a}
mmon choice) will almos'
e cure if initiated prompt] 1-
this case carries much big 1 -.
g brain damage, menta‘
ndness and deafness) an I
iated with untreated MI.

:gan’s or Singer’s theory 0'.

nd binding irrespective an I,
re obligated to avoid a franti e}

5 emergency room—~“though
lake the trip, your child wi I é
eatment no matter what yo
y to avoid impermissible)”
.ings of injustice in this cas
I should take inspiration from:
st that your faith will provide)
need. Perhaps, like Abraham
names to your child that his;

me and will soon pass.

how Singer or Regan coul
I think there rs an asymve
ssionate assessment of your
ally from the animal cruelty;
‘d of care treatment for your?
act from many others and not
share your convictions. I; .
.wed by the steadfastness
w as they repeatedly refuse,
would have saved their lives-:",
)nsultation service at a large;
Iwed me to see this “up close ,-

In of life-savin g treatment for j
: viewed similarly. On the ;.
ed with horror, revulsion and '
would be so viewed by many, ~
who are otherwise deeply’:
1gs of Regan and Singer. I
more certain that it would be

Winter & Spring 1995

The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

11‘ to withhold medical rescue from a child 1n

111 tances likeIhave described than wearecertain,

- 1.1 on intuition, reflective or otherwise, that we

1 l withhold from him the treatment that he needs

: LIse of an inference from the abstract principle that

, mg to beneﬁt from an unjust institution. If these

~ 1 speculations were to prove correct, we would
vrdence of a significant defect in the ethical

. I ,re‘s of these philosophers. We would have a good

I)! for supposing that their theories are candidates

, , 11a] commitment, but not moral commitment

‘71 ”t there are empirical reasons to doubt their
.11Ies’ candidacy for serious personal commitment
ere’ 3 why There are approximately 825,000

I ah’s Witnesses in the United States. Since July

, , when the prohibition against blood transfusions

-' I'll, announced in The Watchtower, there have been
.1 ,highly publicized instances of Witnesses refusing
1::ving blood. Witnesses themselves draw attention
cases for inspirational purposes. They maintain a

.11 nal directory of physicians who specialize in

'- IIi-real treatment sans blood. As I mentioned earlier,
11'. esses have played an important, well-documented
it. n elaborating the legal right to the informed refusal

. tment.

ccording to Newsweek magazine, there are 7, 000
I'II,I protection groups in this country, with a combined
1'11 bership of approximately 10 million. PETA (People
.1. the Ethical Treatment of Animals) alone has
. '1 ximately 800,000 members. Its position, according
Igpokesperson Carol L. Bumett, is “that animals are
:l ' 'ours to eat, wear or experiment on.” Given the avowed
. :11 of the organization on animal research and the size
ts membership, one would suppose that there would
; body of case law involving refusals of treatment by
{Vocates for animals rivaling that of Jehovah’s
messes. One would also suppose that PETA would
‘1'}, I a well-publicized directory of healers who practice
tentative medicine.” Not so. I have not been able to
whoever a single case where a person refused life-saving
II I 'ml treatment on the grounds that accepting treatment
.1 tantamount to buying into the animal cruelty cycle.
'I I 1e are no registries of alternative-doctors. Why not?
partisans for animals are vigilant enough to notice and
11' ject to using gelatin in the manufacture of film
III IIulsions, clearly aremote, non-obvious use of anrrnals
;_ 5"”;cannot be that my question whether advocates for
r, '11 . are at liberty to accept currently available, routine
edical and surgical treatments and to possess health

 

insurance is too arcane to have been noticed before.
PETA, to name but one organization, has made its
scrutiny and strong condemnation of the biomedical
research industry a deﬁning theme.

Neither Singer nor Regan offer any basis for arguing
that, since nothing can bring back the victims of
biomedical research, it is permissible to accept all the
medical products and procedures developed at their
expense on the grounds that so doing is the lesser evil.
Nor will any version of “self—defense” cover the medical
emergency cases I have discussed. None of the millions
of animals already sacriﬁced by the biomedical research
industry in this country ever placed the lives of human
beings in imminent danger, nor were they innocent
deadly threats or innocent shields of deadly threats.
(Nozick 1974, 34, 35). On the contrary, these animals
were innocent victims of speciesism, sacriﬁced on the
altar of humanism.

Conclusion

So where are we with the bridge principle and the moral
pathologies that tend to afﬂict its responsible use?
Advocates for animals are absolutely right stingingly
to reproach our culture for polyannaism. Americans like
nothing better than the smell of a free lunch. Our
capacity for overlooking the moral costs of living the
way we want is astonishing. This is manifest in our
deﬁcit spending, and our unwillingness to confront the
moral implications of encumbering our children with
huge debts so that we can live beyond our means. It is
also manifest in our determination to hide from view
the enormous costs paid in animal lives to secure the
distilled beneﬁts of biomedical research. A lecture tour
of a biomedical research facility to be followed by
observing a non -survival experiment in “the dog model”
should be a requirement for every American. Many of
us owe our lives and good health to animals who were
sacriﬁced for our sakes. We should see ﬁrst hand just
how much we owe to “man’s best friend,” and all the
other statistical lives that were taken for us.

But our friends who advocate for animals so
rigoristically deserve reproach too. Not only do they
fail to embrace openly the clear and immediate
implications of their principles for themselves and their
families concerning the permissibility of beneﬁting
from currently available medical interventions, they
hide these implications from those they would recruit
to their cause. It is also important to emphasize that

 

Winter & Spring 1995

Between the Species

 




Bero, .aAresearcher at the University of California, San Francisco, told NPR's Snigdha Prakash. "They don't have
security of employment. They're in a more junior position, which is very vulnerable to inﬂuence from their
department chair. It's very tenuous.

"So they could potentially lose their job, lose their employment," she told Prakash. "Or if they don't, their life can be
made quite miserable in terms of receiving adequate research space, not receiving administrative support or
something like that."

Waner of OUHSC says it's important for the deans of medical schools and department heads not to let that happen:
"You have to create an atmosphere to give support to the junior faculty so that they can refuse to go along." If a
company makes an unacceptable demand, he says, faculty should understand that saying no won't result in adverse
consequences.

Though our survey could not establish the full scope of industry funding at medical schools, it's important to note
that some institutions get very little money from industry. Washington University Medical Center, for example,
ranks second in federal health funding. But it gets just 1.9 percent of its budget from drug makers and other health-
industry sources.

Joe Neel is NPR '3 health editor.

Corporate Grants to Selected Medical Schools, 2004

Data obtained from medical school Web sites and public information oﬁcers.

*Figures for the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center are for ﬁscal year 2003. All other ﬁgures are for
ﬁscal year 2004.

 




a

Monday, May 6241 20042001

0

Many Are Treated but Few Are Cured - Medication Effectiveness Statistics

for many years.

"Roses is a smart guy and what he is saying will surprise the public but not his colleagues," said one industry
scientist. "He is a pioneer of a new culture within the drugs business based on using genes to test for who can
benefit from a particular drug."

Dr Roses has a formidable reputation in the field of "Pharmacogenomics" - the application of human genetics to
drug development - and his comments can be seen as an attempt to make the industry realise that its future
rests on being able to target drugs to a smaller number of patients with specific genes.

The idea is to identify "responders" - people who benefit from the drug - with a simple and cheap genetic test that
can be used to eliminate those non-responders who might benefit from another drug.

‘ ) a. '

u " : a '- ' ‘ ‘ ' he industry that has relied on selling as many drugs as possible to
the widest number of patients - a culture that has made GSK one of the most profitable pharmaceuticals
companies, but which has also meant that most of its drugs are at best useless, and even possibly dangerous, for
many patients.

Dr Roses said doctors treating patients routinely applied the trial-and-error approach which says that if one drug
does not work there is always another one. "I think everybody has it in their experience that multiple drugs have
been used for their headache or multiple drugs have been used for their backache or whatever.

"It's in their experience, but they don't quite understand why. The reason why is because they have different
susceptibilities to the effect of that drug and that's genetic," he said.

"Neither those who pay for medical care nor patients want drugs to be prescribed that do not benefit the recipient.
Pharmacogenetics has the promise of removing much of the uncertainty."

Response rates

Therapeutic area: drug efficacy rate in per cent
* Alzheimer's: 30
Analgesics (Cox-2): 80
Asthma: 60

Cardiac Arrythmias: 60
Depression (SSRI): 62
Diabetes: 57

Hepatits C (HCV): 47
Incontinence: 40
Migraine (acute): 52
Migraine (prophylaxis)50
Oncology: 25
Rheumatoid arthritisSO
Schizophrenia: 60

*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*

Notes from DrugIntel editor: The motivation for Dr. Roses' comment is the obvious necessity to employ

m The need for Pharmacogenomics and also
.- * -. :0 work in the pharmaceutical industry, but this
’ ‘.1r:. of pharmaceutical companies, for who : z , :s~_.:.‘r:—‘::.;iwe» ~
‘ , -. , ‘ J er un-erstood
and p edicted. The Marketing divisions of Pharmaceuticals have much greater impact on business decisions than
do the Clinical Development divisions and especially the Research division. DrugIntel applauds Dr. Roses' bold
statements, bringing the topic outside the walls of industry.

v.’ "W“ -’- ,
I is. .

Headlines over Dr. Roses comments, Dec. 9, 2003

Glaxo backs boss over 'Ratner' slur

Teiegrapia.m.u5<, :-E:< - 11 hours ago

By Rosie Murray-West, City Correspondent (Filed: 09/12/2003). Drug
giant Glaxo Smithkline said yesterday that the pharmaceutical

Drug firm boss spills beans on failures

Pal-3w Zeaiara-j i-E-araid. New Zeaiand - 21 hours ago

By STEVE CONNOR IN LONDON. A senior executive with Britain's biggest
drugs company has admitted that most prescription medicines

Drugs boss says most medicines ineffective

Beifast 'feiegratt-trs. 1.5K - 22 hours ago

A SENIOR executive with Britain's biggest drugs company has admitted that
most prescription medicines do not work on most people who take them.

Prescription medicine is hit or miss

The Australian, Austraiia - 23 hours ago

By Ronan McGreevy at The Times. A senior executive with pharmaceutical
giant GlaxoSmithKline has admitted that most prescription

http://www.drugintel.com/pharma/many_are_treated.htm

 




Saturday, AUQUSt 627120052001 Working Through a Decision Cut in Shades of Deep Gray - New York Times

Business

 

Skip to article
NY'l‘imes.com

Go to a Section
Log In - Register Now It‘s Free!

 

 

Site Search:

 

Business Home Media&Advertising World Businﬁs Your Money Markets Company Research Mutual Funds Stock Portfolio Columns
The Jury

Working Through a Decision Cut in Shades of Deep Gray

7 Sign In to E—Mail This
7 ’Iinter-Friendly
? Re rints

By BILL DAWSON and ALEX BERENSON
Published: August 20, 2005

ANGLETON, Tex., Aug. 19 - Jurors Who awarded $253 million ,‘i: riday, said that although the award might seem large to outsiders, they
believed in the end that the evidence justified the outcome. ' "“ "’ *- -- ""‘"'

" Look at the evidence, " said Marsha Robbins, the forewoman, when asked whether the award was excessive. "They knew they had a problem," she said of
Merck, the maker of Vioxx.

Another juror, Duffy Marcotte, said, " We stuck to the facts."

But some other jurors on Friday described the panel as not fully convinced of Merck's liability when the group began deliberating on Thursday.

But because the judge told them they needed to be only 51 percent in favor of one side or the other to reach a decision, 10 members of the group eventually voted
against Merck on Friday, after reconsidering the evidence - including the coroner's testimony and the drug's labeling.

" Most people in there were 50-50; they really had to see a lot more of the evidence, " said John Ostrom, 49, of Alvin, Tex., a remodeling service contractor, who
voted with the majority.

Another juror who voted against Merck was Lorraine Blas, 44, of Pearland, Tex., who works in human resources for a distribution company. "When I went into
the jury room, I was half and half, " she said.

One factor that she said finally swayed the jury was another look at Merck's labeling of Vioxx, even after the company began warning doctors that the drug could
be linked to " cardiovascular events" like heart attacks and strokes.

"In the first label, it didn't jump out at you that CV events were happening, " Ms. Blas said. "You had to dig three levels to see it. "

David Webb, 20, an apprentice electrician from Pearland, said he was " on the plaintiff's side almost the whole trial," and yet he "was kind of skeptical" on every
question considered by the jury. In the end, he, too, voted for the plaintiff.

James Friudenberg, 46, of Lake Jackson, Tex., one of the two jurors who voted for Merck, described a trial in which " we were so overwhelmed with data the last
six weeks, it was kind of blurry, all of it — just document after document after document "

Mr. Friudenberg, an instrument and electrical technician for a chemical company, said he did not think that Mrs. Ernst’s lawyers "came up with the goods to prove
Vioxx was the killer - in this case. "

" Maybe in some other case, " he said, " but this was the wrong case."

More Articles in Business > .. ‘
ﬂu! New York Times Online Edition Special Offer: 1 Week Free

Related Articles
? The Overview: Jury Calls Merck Liable in Death of Manon Vioxx (August 20, 2005)

http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/20/business/20_jury.html?adxnnl=1&adxnnlx=1 124510544-
1bOleMYthkszhBXOth

 




Tuesday, November 62120042001 CNN.com - FDA accused of silencing Vioxx Page: 2
' ' ' warnings - Oct 8, 2004
A "picture is emerging of an agency that can't see the forest for the trees, " Grassley said.
"Merck knew It had trouble on its hands and took action. At the same time, instead of acting as

a public watchdog, the Food and Drug Administration was busy challenging its own expert and
calling his work 'scientific rumor. "'

Graham was lead author on a research project that studied the records of 1.39 million Kaiser
Permanente patients, including 40,405 treated with Pfizer's Celebrex and 26,748 treated with
Vioxx. The study found that high doses of Vioxx, known as rofecoxib, tripled risks of heart
attacks and sudden cardiac death.

The research team's original conclusion said that high doses of Vioxx should not be prescribed
or used.

Graham, scheduled to present those findings in late August during an epidemiology conference
in France, said he ran into resistance when the FDA reviewed his abstract.

"I think the recommendation about high dose rofecoxib is unnecessary and particularly
problematic since FDA funded this study and David's travel to France to present it, " Anne E.
Trontell, deputy director of the FDA's Office of Drug Safety, wrote in an Aug. 12 e-mail.

The internal e-mail exchange was released by Grassley.

In the e-mail, Trontell suggested that Graham defer his presentation in favor of a journal article
so dissenting scientists -- including within the FDA -- could comment.

She also said Merck should be alerted before the findings became public " so they can be
prepared for extensive media attention that this will likely provoke."

Others within the agency suggested Graham's conclusion was too strongly worded, given the
FDA had not added such warnings to Vioxx labels.

"I've gone about as far as I can without compromising my deeply held conclusions about this
safety question," Graham replied in an Aug. 13 e-mail.

The FDA said such discussions are typical before scientific findings are published.

The conclusion Graham presented in France was revised: "This and other studies cast serious
doubt on the safety" of Vioxx doses higher than 25 mg. per day.

The FDA said that Graham decided to revise his abstract conclusion. "He did so voluntarily,"
the agency said.

In testimony before a congressional panel in mid-September, Andrew Mosholder, an FDA
epidemiologist, said his bosses asked him to soften recommendations about antidepressants.

Mosholder's analysis pointed to increased suicidal thoughts and behaviors among children
taking antidepressants well before federal advisers pushed for strident warnings on the drugs.
He suggested preferential use of Prozac, the only drug approved to treat depressed children and
-- according to his review -- the one with the lowest risk.

His supervisors within the FDA told him to suggest that children use such medications " with
caution," Mosholder told the Congressional panel.

Dr. Paul Seligman, acting director of the FDA's Office of Drug Safety, said the agency did not
pressure Mosholder to change his conclusion.

http://cnn.health.printthis.clickability.com/pt/
cpt?action=cpt&title=CNN.com+—+FDA+

 




 

. The healthy and active Minneapolis resident ﬁrsr

A n I m a I Resea rc h took the painkiller after injuring her shoulder at the
local YMCA and stuck with it because it seemed to

0 help her arthritis. A little over a year later, Tufforri‘

o n Trl a I , began experiencing fatigue and shortness of breath. A
i _ nonsmoker who had no symptoms or history of hcarr

i problems before taking Vioxx, Tufford was diagnosed

I ' with congestive heart failure in the summer of2004.
PCRM Sues ~

An estimated 140,000 Americans developed hear:

. and vascular disease from Vioxx. What makes Tufford
Merck over

case unusual is that she—with help from PCRM—“is
° ' , taking Vioxx’s manufacturer to court over its relianct
VI OXX An I m a l on misleading animal tests.
Tests ,p Tufford is a plaintiff in a PCRM lawsuit against.
Merck & Co. ﬁled in July in the Superior Court of
Mersey. The suit charges that the New Jersey—based ’
pharmaceuficaT maker wrongfully relied on animal tesgs
me ignoring more applicable human data.

The PCRMciase is believed to be the ﬁrst time a U.S.
pharmaceutical company has been sued speciﬁcally for
relying on animal tests. A top—selling painkiller, Vioxx
was pulled off the market in fall 2004, after results from
a clinical study showed that the drug doubled the risk
of stroke and heart attack in Fumans.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PCRM cardiologist and medical researcher John J.
Pippin, M.D., F.A.C.C., testiﬁed before Food and Drug
Administration and Institute of Medicine committees
on drug safety and released a major report on the failure
of animal tests to predict Vioxx’s dangers.

According to Dr. Pippin, Merck disregarded and
suppressed human risk data that began appearing in
1996—-—and continued to do so after its own study in
2000 showed that Vioxx was linked to five times the

AWV‘WO)

hen PCRM member Nancy Tufford began
takin Vioxx in January 2002, she had no , . . a.
idea tghat Merck, the drug’s manufacturer, PCRM S VIOXX Lawsunt Press COHfoEhCEf

was betting her life on a misleading animal experi— i i " '

ment. The drug giant—eager to keep a proﬁtable drug

on the market——had decided to rely on tests showing

that Vioxx was safe in mice, rats, and monkeys, WEE

@oring‘mounting evidence that the drug was danger-

ous to humans.

 

 

 

Visit www.pcrm.org to read PCRM’s lawsuit and Dr. Pippin’s in-
depth report, ”The Need for Revision of Pre-Market Testing: The
Failure of Animal Tests of COX-2 Inhibitors. ”For updates on our
lawsuit, subscribe to our monthly e-newsletter, PCRM Online,
at www.pcrm.org.

 

Plaintiff Nancy Tufford with her daugher, Anne Ferguson

12 GOOD MEDICINE Autumn 2005

 




Wednesday, Aprll 6l3l2005200l

h.

Editorial: Some watchdog / The FDA lets industry trump the public interest

”OSt'gaZEtiggg, .-

A aervice of the ﬂiﬂshumh ﬁent'ﬁauite‘a

Editorial: Some watchdog / The FDA lets industry trump the public
interest

biomass}...

Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

It seemed odd at the time. AMo‘i-y com‘mittee‘of the federal Food and Drug Administration voted last month for continued

marketing of three popul'ar‘painkillers despite plenty of evidence that Vioxx, Celebrex and Bextra create an undue risk of heart
attacks and strokes.

Now The New York Times reports why the FDA's drug safety panel decidgdkas it did. It turns out that at least 10 of the 32 .g}
miuee‘members have ﬁnancial ties to the pharmaceutical manufacturers ‘ ‘ ' "

If those 10 had been forced to recuse themselves. the panel's deciding votes would have gone the other way, the Times
reported. The conﬂicts, involving previous consulting work for Merck, which makes Vioxx, and Pﬁzer, which makes Bextra
and Celebrex, were documented in medical journals and public records.

The FDA's tactic has been to read a statement at the beginning of its advisory panel meetings acknowledging the members
may have conﬂicts but absolving them since no products were being approved. Several of the scientists responded feebly that
it would be difficult to find advisers with no ties to drug makers.

Science policy experts say such conflicts are common at the FDA, which during the Bush administration has served not as a

consumer watchdog but as a mbber stamp for the latest pharmaceutical ventures Health and safety have become secondary to
industry profits.

At the same time, the administration is pressing Congress to pass legislation limiting the right of individuals and groups to sue
businesses over defective and dangerous products -- like drugs. It doesn't take a conspiracy theorist to see a disturbing
pattern in which the industry's agenda is being advanced at the expense of the public interest.

Back

 

Copyright ©1997-2004 PG Publishing Co., Inc. All Rights Reserved.

http://www.post-gazetteeom/pg/pp/OSOOOHO7309.3tm

 




Health & Science

Part 1: Documents Suggest Merck Tried to Censor Vioxx Critics

by Snigdha Prakash

More In This Report:

0 June 0.. 200.:
Part 2: Dld Merck Try to Censor Vioxx

Critics?

Med Schools & Drug Firm
Funds

An informal survey of medical schools by
NPR found that some schools rely on
funding from pharmaceutical and other
health- industry sources.

The issue is taking on increasing
importance. Government funding for
medical research is not expected to
increase in coming years and could
decline. Medical schools will be more
reliant on private, for-proﬁt industry for
funding. That raises concerns about
academic freedom and restrictions on
what researchers can and cannot say in
print and in public.

0 June 0. 2005
Full Story

as:

,5 '3' 9'15”" 5 v

, , June 9, 2005 - Because of intense interest in this
report, NPR has decided to present a full transcript.

Introduction: 4:9 are believed to have died from
taking the pain p 7": -— . t drawn last year. Drug maker
Merck is now facing thousands of lawsuits.

Over the past few months, it has emerged that the __c_ompany was aware for‘
years that Vioxx might be dangerous. Now, new documents obtained byv
R suggest that even as Merck was making Vioxx into a bestseller, the

company was ° essure on independent doctors. The company's
apparent aim: to m 'scu f Vioxx's potential

safe r blems. The documents show that Merck exerted pressure not‘cni‘l'y

on individual doctors, but also on several of the nation's top medical
schools. "
m

Merck tells NPR it did nothing wrong. NPR's Snigdha Prakash has the ﬁrst
story in a two -part report.

Transcript: When a drug company wants to sell a pill to a doctor, its best
salesperson is usually another doctor.

Of course, drug companies don't call that selling. They call it "medical
education." Or even medical research.

Well before Merck launched Vioxx, the company was targeting inﬂuential
doctors who could help it build Vioxx's sales.

When they located a prospect, they entered the details about that doctor
into a spreadsheet at headquarters. Spreadsheet entries included items such

"...treats all of the major sports teams, including the Lakers basketball team and the Dodgers baseball team, as well
as the high-proﬁle members of our society."

"... 2,4 00 prescriptions per year... also known nationally... Writes for a lot of rheumatology textbooks."

Merck's vast army of sales representatives gathered intelligence on what it would take to win over individual
doctors. Their notes included the following strategic observations:

"Use in many speaking engagements... At least $20,000 for speaking engagements for the remainder of the year."

 

.rﬁ ——

"Will speak for us only at certain restaurants and high honorarium... Likes to feel important... He needs the VIP

treatment."

One of the physicians whom Merck recruited to promote Vioxx was Gurkirpal Singh of Stanford University.

Merck wanted Singh on board because he was a senior researcher on a seminal study of arthritis patients. The study
showed that older painkillers, such as Naproxen, commonly caused gastrointestinal bleeding. It established the need

 




Treatment

 

ion of animal use in researc a:
:Law 89-544 (known as th
:lfare Act). The Act waE
mged to the Animal Welfar
i). It was amended again i
85, the Improved Standar "
:t was enacted as part of th
in turn further amended
1985 amendments require «.5
.onal Animal Care and Us ::
:lical research facilities anti
Ire minimization of pain am]
tended yet again in 1990 to
.ude certain rodents—gum g;
[S-
amendrnents expanded - a"
r of animal research. Fe -
ell cultures and compute”
timals whenever feasible, I .t’
luplicative, that lower . ' . f
imals wherever possible, tha f;
d be minimized and that anY
ss be rigorously scrutinized-{i
be taken to eliminate or to:
ms impose several layers 0
liance. Nevertheless, honesty;
at breaches occur despite all
and policing.14 '
stringency may or may not;
I one answers the questionslg'
h as increasing regulatory;
rtion, reduction in the overal
. etc., might be relevant to;
missibility of accepting a;
.” Depending on one’s theory
’8 threshold of tolerance,‘
:ical beneﬁts that have been
: more objectionable than;
' developed ones, because:
restricted and arguably “less?
[here is no reason to suppose;
tke any signiﬁcant, practical;

Singer however. .3

static regime that structuresj‘
’ of biomedical research is-
:s which trace their roots to:
49) and the Declaration 0 '3
ng human subject research,

luire, respectively,

 

Winter & Spring 1995

The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

ji'é“'1he experiment should be so designed and
on the results of animal experimentation
ﬁnd a knowledge of the natural history of the
«disease or other problem under study that the
{ anticipated results will justify the performance
.:of the experiment.”15

92. “Biomedical research involving human
35*Subjects must conform to generally accepted
scientiﬁc principles and should be based on
tadequately performed laboratory and animal
experimentation and on a thorough knowledge
of the scientiﬁc literature.”16 -

The dictum that medical research should be structured

that animal experiments precede human ’ ct
1!» a: '- ents was most likely a response to mg
a -speciesist medical experimentation prog --—a
"l“, which rejected animalresearch in favor of
. perimenting on “lesser quality,” mmgiTal human
; A: Almost immediately upon coming to power, Nazi
2,5’ - ntatives to the Prussian parliament met to ban
‘. . experimentation. A similar ban was enacted in
'varia - .l u -o'purpose of the Law for the
hfutection of Animals was “to awaken and strengthen
.. v- ion as one of the highest moral values of the
't . people.”18 InAugust of 1933 Hermann Goering
g": u - a radio address in which he proclaimed as follows:

 

“...among all civilized states, Germany is the
f1 ﬁrst to end the shame of vivisection. . .[Goering
.5} threatened to] “commit to concentration camps
5 those who still think they can continue to treat
{9‘1 animals as inanimate property... What Reich’s
. Chancellor Adolph Hitler. . .did and will do for
the protection of animals stands as a guideline
'3 to the leaders of all civilized states?”

' The fact that German law aimed to protect animals
(it their own sakes and not merely because of the
_.a teresthumans take in them was described as a novel
{Egal concept.20 Horses, dogs, cats and apes were
W‘lngled out for special protection.21 In November 1933,
the Nazis partially retreated from a full ban on animal
f-xperimentation.22 It was decided that animal
,1xperimentation would be permitted under some

*ircumstances but doing so would require the explicit
\"rmission of the Minister of Interior, supported by
the recommendation of local authorities.

 

The extensive legal protection given to animals by
German law meant that vulnerable humans who lacked
such protection became especially tempting candidates
for experimentation to the Nazi doctors. Not only did
they succumb to the temptation, they offered moral
reasons for doing so; that these individuals were lesser
quality beings was among those reasons.23 Because
medicine “went mad" in Nazi Germany, the drafters of
the Nuremberg Code felt compelled to take a stand on
the comparative value of human and nonhuman life
which was clearly speciesist. Animals, rather than
human beings, should bear the initial risks inherent in
medical experimentation, not because animals are
worthless, but because they are worth less than humans.

Although Peter Singer does not explicitly discuss
the Third Reich’s animal protection program, he would
no doubt say that the speciesist provisions in the
Nuremberg Code were an over-reaction to it.24 He
would claim that, at most, Germany’s experiment with
anti-speciesism serves as a “valuable warning.” It shows
the “possibility” that anti—speciesism can be abused, but
does not necessarily prove that there is a “slippery
slope” from anti-speciesism to using the mentally
retarded as research subjects to human hypothermia
experiments. He says,

The slippery slope argument may serve as a
valuable warning in some contexts, but it
cannot bear too much weight. If we believe
that, as I have argued in this chapter, the special
status we now give to humans allows us to
ignore the interests of billions of sentient
creatures, we should not be deterred from
trying to rectify this situation by the mere
possibility that the principles on which we base

this attempt will be misused by evil rulers for
their own ends.25

Tom Regan would no doubt condemn the Code’s blatant
speciesism more strongly. He says,

Thus do we have, on the rights view, the basis
utilitarians lack for protesting against, for
example, those who would use animals in
terminal research, but not humans, when the
death caused these animals marks a greater loss,
and thus a greater harm, than it would in the
case of some humans who might be used in their
place. For the magnitude of the harm that death

 

gWinter & Spring 1995

Between the Species

 




3

The Blessings of Injustice: Animals and the Right to Accept Medical Treatment

for himself w 1d sto him from refusrngonbehalf
o 1 ‘ child; in fac, WW

ng to seek life-saving care for his child.
think this rs the 11’ t position in political morality.
We should respect the liberty of individuals who would
martyr themselves for their principles but we should
not” tolerate fanatics who would martyr their children.
Most of Wither polyannas nor fanatics. We
cultivate and cherish a well-formed conscience. We
enjoy displaying our principles on bumper stickers, on
vanity license plates and at rallies of various sorts We
also accept health' insurance as a tax- free employment
beneﬁt, see a physician regularly and take our infant-
children in for “well- -baby” visits. We have serious
discussions around the family dinner table whether it
is more rational to join an HMO or pay extra for fee-
for-service care. Most of us also teeter between
polyannaism and binge-fanaticism, fearing that our
balancing act is mere hypocrisy rather than the golden
mean of practical wisdom. If Kant was right, we cannot

know for certain which it is.

Notes
‘ The author wishes to thank Marvin McCall, Carl Cohen,

Al Mele, John Heil, Irwin Goldstein, Tom Masters, Richard
Vance, Adrian Morrison, James Kellenberger, Ian McLean, and
Steve Sapontzis, whose comments helped improve this paper.

2 See, Singer, Peter, 1990. Animal Liberation. Second

Edition. New York Review of Books New York, and Singer,
Peter, 1993. Practical Ethics. Second Edition. Cambridge
University Press, New York.

3 See, Regan, Tom, 1983. The Case for Animal Rights.

University of California Press, Berkeley.

4 See, Sapontzis, SE, 1987. Morals, Reason andAnimals.

Temple University Press, Philadelphia.

5 Popular Photography, December 1994, p.224.

6 Singer, Practical Ethics, p. 12. Bernard Williams, who

 

7 See 8. Kierkegaard, Fear and Trembling/Repetitié
Hong and Hong (eds. ), Princeton: Princeton UniversityPref
1983, pp. 5447. ,

3 See, Jehovahs thesses etc. v. King County Hosp. U 11
No. 1, 20L. Ed. 2d 158, 888. Ct. 1260, 39OU..S 598091;};
aﬂ’ g. 278 F. Supp. 488, 504- 05 (W.D. Wash. 1967) (statu
permitting courts to declare children dependents and o 1
blood transfusions over parental objections does not vi01.1‘1
the ﬁrst amendment’ s free exercise or establishment clause:
in re Storar, 52 N. Y. 2d 363, 438 N. Y.S 2d 266, 420 N. E 1
64, 73 (N. Y. 1981), cert. den., 454 U. S. 858 (1981) (sI .1.
may intervene in family relationships to protect health 1
life of children despite parental principles).

9 Strictly speaking, the real “benefit” at stake' 1s 11
marginal reduction in morbidity and mortality and not 111
products, techniques and educational processes which play:
role in bringing it about. But as shorthand, I will refer Ir
interventions as “benefits.”

‘0 U. S Congress, Office of Technology Assessme
Alternatives to Animal Use in Research, Testing and Educatt 1.
(Washington, DC: U. 8. Government Printing Ofﬁce, OT
BA- 273, February 1986). PS.

” Orlans, F B. Data on Animal Experimentation 1n 1':
United States: What they do and do not show Perspectivesi:
Biology and Medicine 37; 217- 231. Winter 1994

‘2 Orlans, 1994, p.218.

3United States Department of Agriculture, Ani 11"
Welfare Enforcement. Fiscal Year 1993 P. 19.

\/14 USDA, 1994, p 13. I
'5 Trials of War Criminal before the Nuremberg Milit '1

Tribunals under Control Council Law Nio. 10, Vol. 2, p.181
Washington, D. C.: U. S. Government Printing Ofﬁce,1949.'

‘6 World Medical Association: Declaration of Helsinki

Adopted by the 18th World Medical Assembly. Helsinki

Finland. June 1964.

‘7 Proctor, Robert, 1988. Racial Hygiene. Medicine Unde'
the Nazis. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Mass p. 221.

‘8 See, Waite, R. 1977. The psychopathic god. New Yo . :
Basic Books; Giese, C., and D. Lahler, 1944. Das deuts ’

The Blessj

 

'1

: 1:1. .
_ . ’1
if. 7 §

and Kahler, 1944. 1
3 1933. “New regula

.: the American Medic
‘. an A. 1992. When Mi

. i

.I ”1111, 1983, p.382, 1111111

Ialocaust. Totowa, N. J:

a, 1 claims that a cat

1 n a par with categori

17,. , th violate the Pﬁn

: "sts Singer says “‘8
11 . Itsofmembersofst

' L. .‘- 11 their interests

1'11 nan speciesists do
felt by pigs or mice
1193, p.58). Singer’s
:1 3: . See his “The c
9‘?» research. ” New Eng
“1 1. tobe'r 2), 1986

1 ex, 1993 P 77'

 

~' : In excellent discu :
ga-1»11'T.,1981.“Mora1b1

3

, tan excellent discus
1987 Irrationality.
'1 19 . {

1,1 (L..W Beck, 1111111
[es of Morals Indians.

'1 at. 1993, [364 emPh

 

denies that impartiality is the essence of morality, states the
principle 1n basically the same terms as Singer, namely, that

..there can be no relevant difference from a moral point
of view which consists just in the fact, not further explicable
in general terms, that benefits or harms accrue to one person
rather than another—‘ it’s me’ can never in itself be a morally
comprehensible reason.” Utilitarianism: For and Against,
(written with J .J .C . Smart) Cambridge University Press,
1973,p.98)

Tie rschutzrecht: Bestimmungen zum Schutze der tiere. Ber 1 :
Dunker and Humbolt; and Arluke, A., and Boria Sax. 1' ' ).
“Nazi Animal Protection and the Holocaust. ”Anthmzoos, V01
V, Number 1: 6- 31.

19Blood- Ryan, H. W. (trans. ) 1939 The Political Testame 1
of Herman Goering, London: John Long, pp. 70,72,75).

 

2° Arluke and Sax, 1992, p.8.

 

 

Between the Species Winter & Spring 1995

 

 

 




Monday, May 5241 20042001 Many Are Treated but Few Are Cured - Medication Effectiveness Statistics

I ' . ‘

Drugs don ’ t work . says Glaxo chief

The Titties (subscription). UK - Dec 7, 2003

By Ronan McGreevy. A SENIOR executive with Britain’s biggest pharmaceutical
company has admitted that most prescription medicines

Glaxo chief: Our drugs do not work on most patients
trader-endow, UK - Dec 7, 2003

By Steve Connor, Science Editor. A senior executive with Britain's biggest
drugs company has admitted that most prescription medicines

Glaxo exec admits drugs ineffective

Washington Tunes, DC“: - 16 hours ago

LONDON, Dec. 8 (UPI) -- A senior executive with Britain's biggest drug
company has admitted most prescription medicines do not work

'M ost drugs don‘t help people’

independent muse, South Africa - 18 hours ago

By Steve Connor. A senior executive with Britain's biggest drugs company has admitted
that most prescription medicines do not work on most people who take them.

glam boss: most drugs don't help most people

The Stew, Aﬁi‘ca - Dec 8, 2003

By Steve Connor. A senior executive with Britain's biggest drugs company has admitted
that most prescription medicines do not work on most people who take them.

..,. . . ..-.;'. -.-‘. ....'.' . . '- ._, an. -- . --....-,"....-_._, ... n .

See also -:&::-:3:-::::5::i:.::-:; as anmrta Mitt 53:41-31:24: i-"::.::~:E.2~:i-1:f$IE.:2:- :1»: 2.. ='~: -'-.'-

. --e.. -.'. v- .. ~.- 3‘...

531232“ S-‘aﬂ‘téctééi-tf 2.5571552: watts-Ls;-
u.

http://www.drugintel.com/pharma/many__are_treated.htm

 




at El Print

Merck's Vioxx Victory May Not Help Future Cases,
Analysts Say 5% 42. Listen

Nov. 4 (Bloomberg) —- Merck & Co. can't savor yesterday's victory in the second trial over its Vioxx
painkiller for long, say analysts and lawyers tracking the 6,400 other lawsuits the company faces for
injuries or deaths linked to the drug.

Merck, the No. 3 U.S. drugmaker, faces its next trial on Nov. 28 in Houston, where a widow of a
Vioxx user claim's‘ﬁ'e‘r husband died after one month on the drug. Analysts say Merck faces billions
of dollars in potential liability from such cases following its New Jersey victory.

A jury in Atlantic City ruled yesterday that Merck wasn't liable to an Idaho postal worker, Frederick
Humeston, who blamed his 2001 heart attack on the drug. The victory followed an August verdict by
Texas jury that told Merck to pay the widow of a Vioxx user $253 million, an amount that will drop
to $26 million under state law. Whitehouse Station, New Jersey—based Merck has vowed to fight
each lawsuit on a case-by-case basis.

‘ ‘I still think it's going to be a long, challenging road ahead for Merck," said Jake Dollarhide, chief
executive of Longbow Asset Management Co. in Tulsa, Oklahoma, who manages about $25 million in
assets.

Merck has set aside $675 million to defend its handling of Vioxx, which the company withdrew last
year after a study showed the drug doubled the risk of heart attacks after 18 months of daily use.
The company has set aside no reserves for verdicts and has no plans to settle any cases, General
Counsel Kenneth Frazier said in a teleconference yesterday after the New Jersey verdict.

‘ ‘ We do not intend to allow people to use Merck, in effect, as an open bank for people to sue us,"
Frazier said.

Investors project Merck's liabilit could run as high as $35 billion ‘ ‘ but I would guess that the
ultimate liability is much less than that," said Michael Rrensavage, an analyst at St. Petersburg,
Florida-based Raymond James & Associates Inc. ‘ ‘There will be a lot more trials, and they're just
going to have to fight one by one."

Years of Litigation

David Heupel, who helps manage $2.5 billion at Minneapolis- based Thrivent Financial for Lutherans,
said Merck faces years of litigation, and its success will vary depending on each plaintiff.

‘ ‘You're going to have to look at each case relative to who the patient was" and their health
history, Heupel said.

The Humeston verdict showed jurors will accept the company's defense that it developed and
marketed Vioxx honestly, Frazier said. Jurors can conclude ‘ ‘the science doesn't support the claims
that are being made," particularly for short-term users, Frazier said in the conference call.

Merck denies short-term users like Humeston were at risk.

‘ ‘ Short—term use was a huge factor in my decision," Humeston juror Vickie Heintz said after the
verdict.

First Federal Case

Merck will defend its first federal case this month in Houston, where the widow of Robert Irvin Jr.
claims Vioxx triggered his heart attack after one month of use. Irvin, a former college football

player and father of four, ran a seafood business in St. Augustine, Florida. He took Vioxx for back
pain.

The Humeston verdict won't affect Irvin's case, said attorney Jere Beasley, whose firm, Beasley Allen
Crow, represents the widow, Evelyn Irvin Plunkett.

‘ ‘First of all, we have a death," Beasley said. ‘ ‘We have an autopsy. We will win on the science.
We're not going to let Merck come in and attack our plaintiff."

 




mmedimlmwsmdammm

10 Experts on FDA Advisory Panel Supporting COX-2 Inhibitors Had Ties to
Pharmaceutical Industry

3" ”32

26 Feb 2005 iguck to Print”
Almost one-third of the members on the... FDA advisory committee that last week recommended
the continued sale of COX-2 inhibitors "have consulted in recent years for the drugs' makers" and
in large part voted in favor of the recommendation, according to a recent review of medical journals
and other public records conducted by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, the New York
Times reports (Harris/Berenson, New York Times, 2/25). The committee, which included members
of the FDA arthritis and drug safety and risk management advisory committees, on Feb. 16 began

three days of meetings to examine the safety of COX-2 inhibitors and make recommendations to
the agency. The committee voted:

I 31-1 to recommend that FDA allow Celebrex, manufactured by Pfizer, to remain on the
market;

I 17-13 -- with two abstentions -'- to recommend that FDA allow Bextra, also manufactured by
Pfizer, to remain on the market; and

I 17-15 to recommend that FDA allow Vioxx, manufactured by Merck, to return to the market
(Kaiser Daily Health Policy Report, 2/22).

Impact of Pharmaceutical Industry Ties

H cptbyggeaQ§Elmrreyiew without the 10 committeenmembewrswithwpast financial ties _to the”,
'rg"s"’makers-,* ' ‘Tﬁ‘itt‘e‘é‘iwoﬁ‘ldihav‘é"‘V‘o‘t'éd ”12—8 to 'recommeﬁth-hat FDA orderrthe'withdraWal
of Bextra from~ther~rnark“ért"'and‘14-48'to’recommend thatth‘exagencyvﬁeﬁtsallowwioxx not retUrn the
marketﬁﬂigswxcommittee ,mem_bers....).l.ote.d~,9..-1... to recommend that FDA allow Bextra to remain
on the market and 9-1 to recommend that the agency allow the return of Vioxx to the market.
However, the votes of those 10 committee members would not have affected the recommendation ,
that FDA allow Celebrex to remain on the market. Among the 30 votes of those 10 committee
members, 28 favored COX-2 inhibitors, compared with 37 of 66 votes among other committee
members. According to the Times, the review conducted by CSPI -- a "frequent critic" of FDA and
the pharmaceutical industry -- might "understate the industry ties of the panel participants because
some ties may not have been previously disclosed publicly."

Common Practice?

Researchers with past financial ties to pharmaceutical companies often serve on FDA advisory
committees, the Times reports. Although FDA has sought to "balance expertise with potential
conflicts of interest," the inclusion of such researchers on agency advisory committees "has long
been a contentious issue," according to the Times. Prior to each of the FDA advisory committee
meetings on COX-2 inhibitors last week, an agency secretary read a statement to absolve the
potential conflicts of interest among committee members because the meetings involved "issues of
broad applicability and there are no products being approved." The FDA secretary also said that the
agency "acknowledges that there may be potential conflicts of interest, but because of the general
nature of the discussions before the committee, these potential conflicts are mitigated."

 




 

 

heart attack risk of naproxen, an older anti—inflamma—

 

tory drug. Merck used data from animal tests to make

a case for keeping its blockbuster drug on the market.

Nine of 11 studies on mice and rats had shown
Vioxx or other COX—2 inhibitors to be safe for animal
hearts and blood vessels. In fact, six different animal
studies—in four different species—showed Vioxx was
actually protective against heart attacks and vascular
disease. One researcher went so far as to suggest that
Vioxx be considered a treatment for human cardiovas—
cular disease, based on these animal tests.

onkey tests were a special problem. After human

studies indicated that Vioxx was more dangerous than
another painkiller, naproxen, Merck used experiments
on African green monkeys to try to show that Vioxx
wasn’t the problem. The monkey tests showed the};
\fiixx was neutral for the heart, whﬂe naproxen seemed
to have a special heart—protecTtEe effect. Merck’s falsely

 

 

optimistic animal tests led the company to disregard
fh—e'deadlygoblems emerging in humans.

PCRM’S lawsuit charges that Merclcwa‘s well aware
of the limitations of animal testing—that animal ex—
periments are often inconsistent, species—dependent,

and not useful in predicting drug safety or efﬁcacy in
humans.

Because most animals don’t suffer from heart at—
tacks, hypertension, and other cardiovascular problems,
Merck and other drug companies have used artiﬁcial
methods to attempt to mimic heart disease in animals.
In the study on African green monkeys, Merck research—
ers used electrical shocks to damage the animals) veins

d arteries and induce blood clotting.

The end result of such tests was a large collection

PCRM cardiologist and medical researcher

Drug Safety?

° More than 100,000 Americans die each year from adverse

reactions to approved drugs.This is the ﬁfth leading cause of

death in the United States.

- More than 90 percent of drugs that appear safe in animal

tests fail in human studies.

- More than half of all approved drugs will be withdrawn or
relabeled for serious or lethal effects in humans.

of unreliable data. In this respect, Vioxx is not unique.
Many other drugs have appeared safe in animal tests
but proved dangerous in humans. Rezulin, a diabetes
drug, appeared safe in rats, but caused fatal liver failure
in humans. The opposite scenario is also common.
Penicillin, for example, was discovered in 1929 but not
used until a decade later because of its ineffectiveness
in curing infected rabbits. If it had been tested in cats,
guinea pigs, or hamsters, penicillin would likely have
been abandoned as toxic.

Merck erred in not doing adequate post—market
surveillance of patient reactions, says Dr. Pippin. And
the company should have conducted in vitm tests using
human cells and tissues, along with extensive computer
modeling, rather than animal tests. PCRM’s lawsuit
charges Merck with knowing of these methods but
failing to employ them.

“Merck was wrong to rely on data from mice, rats,
and African green monkeys when faced with compel—
ling evidence that human patients were at risk,” says
Dr. Pippin. “Animal trials didn’t predict that Nancy
Tufford would develop heart disease from Vioxx, but
human trials clearly did. Until we stop using animal
tests to gauge the safety of human drugs, disasters like
Vioxx are inevitable.”

Muhammad Mamdani, Pharm.D., M.A.,
M.P.H., lead author of human-based study

PCRM attorney Dan Kinburn

John J. Pippin, M.D., F.A.(.(.

linking Vioxx to congestive heart failure PCRM president Neal D. Barnard, M.D.

Autumn 2005 U00” MlilllkilNli 13

 




