HOW TO BEFRIEND
LABORATORY ANIMALS

By MAJOR C. W. HUME, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I.Bi01.

THIRD EDITION

V Pub/£55671 [3)!

arm

(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)

7a Lamb’s Conduit Passage, London, W.C.I

 

Price 6d.

 




 

THE AIM AND METHODS OF UFAW

The Aim of UFAW is to promote humane behaviour towards
wild and domestic animals in Britain and abroad so as to reduce
the sum total of pain and fear inflicted on animals by man.

This aim is pursued by

.'enlisting for that purpose the energies of members of
universities and professional men aml women;

obtaining and disseminating relevant knowledge;
helping teachers to provide humane education ;

co-operating with Government Departments, Parliament,
the Churches, the learned societies and other bodies in
action favourable to humane behax'iour;

engaging in any other charitable activities conducive to the
end in View and appropriate to the character of a uni-
versity organization.

OBJECT 3(c), MEMORANDUM OF
ASSOCIATION OF UFAW’

5(C) TO seek the aid of biological research workers and
others in fostering in laboratories in the United Kingdom and
abroad consideration for the physical and mental comfort Of
experimental animals, avoidance of procedures which involve
serious suffering, and the development of techniques calculated
to reduce discomfort to a minimum, but so that the Federation
shall not engage on either side in public controversies relating to
the legitimacy of making scientific experiments on animals.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

How to Befriend Laboratory Animals
By MAJOR C. W. HUME, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I.Biol.

HISTORY OF THE PROBLEM

IN I 865 it became known that veterinary students in France
were being required to perform, as part of their training,
operations on live horses without anaesthetics; a series of
operations on each horse. A memorial signed by 500
British veterinary surgeons was taken to Alfort by a Mr
James Cowie, and the practice was subsequently discon~
tinued. The shock it had given to British public opinion
led, however, to discussion of experiments on animals as
practised in this country; lay opinion was aroused by the
writings of Miss Frances Power Cobbe, and on the scientiﬁc
side the British Association studied the subject on the
initiative of Charles Darwin, Lyon Playfair and other
humane scientists. The report of a Royal Commission on
Vivisection, published-in 1876, resulted in the Cruelty to
Animals Act (1876), which is still in force and protects
research workers from vexatious litigation but provides
important safeguards for animals. A second Royal Com-
mission reported in 1912 and made recommendations as to
the administration of the Act; most of these have been
adopted.

At ﬁrst the anti-Vivisectionists, led by Miss Cobbe, co—
operated with humane scientists, but when the Act was
passed they were very dissatisﬁed with it. They were, in
fact, in a very difﬁcult position. They were ﬁlled with
horror by the Alfort incident and some other occurrences
that had come to light ; they had a notion that they had been
betrayed in some way by their scientiﬁc friends ; without
having had any scientiﬁc training themselves, they, had to

I

 




 

 

deal with highly technical subject-matter ; and they wished
to appeal to the lay public, which was almost as unwilling
then as now to understand anything that is at all difﬁcult
or complicated, or to take notice of anything that is not
said in a sensational way. In these diﬂicult circumstances,
groping in a half-light and tormented by an urgent sense of
horror, they adopted methods that have characterized much
anti-vivisection propaganda ever since. They simpliﬁed
their policy by demanding the total abolition of all experi—
ments on animals without discrimination, simplified their
polemic by asserting that experiments on animals cannot
usefully advance medical knowledge, and simplified their
indictment by alleging that all experiments are cruel and all
experimenters heartless. It is easy to understand how this
mode of propaganda arose, but equally easy to understand
the intense resentment aroused by it in the minds of scientists.
That resentment discouraged many from making the
stand they. might otherwise have made against cruel experv
ments. They became afraid of seeming to countenance in-
discriminate anti—vivisection propaganda, and preferred, like
Charles Darwin after the schism, to “ bear their share of the
abuse poured in so atrocious a manner on all physiologists ”.
On the other hand, whatever their shortcomings, the anti-
vivisectionists have kept us aware of the problem. How—
ever much we may disagree with their policy, that fact
entitles them to our gratitude.

FAILURE OF A PROPOSED SOLUTION

The abolitionist policy, that is to say the demand for the
abolition. of all experiments on animals without discrimin-
ation, has not been successful. Since it was promulgated
the number of experiments performed annually has increased
rapidly; in .1883 there were 311 experiments, and in 1961
nearly 4 million. No anti—Vivisection Bill has reached

2.




 

 

second reading in either House since 1881. In 1929 when
an anti-vivisectionist, Mr. J. R. Clynes, was Home Secretary,
Sir Robert Gower asked him in the House of Commons to
introduce legislation prohibiting experiments on dogs ; he
refused on the ground of advice tendered by the Govern-
ment’s professional advisers. If the abolition (as distinct
from regulation) of experiments on animals ever became
probable, the Medical Research Council, the Agricultural
Research Council, the Royal Society, the B.M.A-‘., the
N.V.M.A., the Royal Colleges, the Ministries of Health,
Agriculture and Food, the Home Office, the Colonial Office
and the Defence Services, backed by scientiﬁc and medical
opinion, would ensure its being averted.

On the other hand it is illegal to perform an experiment
on a living animal forthe purpose of attaining manual skill,
but this enactment is apt. to work out rather badly; its
effect is that all veterinary surgeons and some physiologists,
instead of practising upon animals that are destined to be
killed before they return to consciousness after being
anmsthetized, must acquire manual skill at the expense of
animals that are intended for recovery and will suffer,
therefore, if an operation should be bungled. Again, it is
true that the Dogs Act, 1906, prohibits the use of stray
dogs for vivisection, but the effect of that is that dogs
bought from dealers have to be used instead, and the.
resulting high prices tempt thieves to deprive dogs of their:
homes. It is true also that according to law a horse must
not be used if any other animal will do, and a cat or dog
must not be used for experiments without anaesthetics if
any other animal will do. Horses, cats and dogs are such
favourite animals that they are likely to be treated with
more careful consideration than other species in the labor~
atory, and the effect of the law is to substitute for them
animals which are equally sensitive .to . suffering but less

:3

 

 




 

 

 

likely to receive specially considerate treatment.

These are, I think, the only instances in which the aboli—
tionist policy has been realized, and although they give
satisfaction to pet-owners they are disadvantageous to
animals.

AN ANALOGY

In the nature of the case the abolitionist policy was bound
to fail; it is as if I were to demand the abolition of the
motor-car in View of the fact that in 1960 no fewer than
6,970 persons were killed and 340,581 injured in road
accidents in Britain, often with cruel mutilation, and that

 

the same sort of thing happens year after year. In support
of my thesis I might describe in gruesome detail some of
the injuries inﬂicted on attractive young children. I might
allege that motor-cars are unnecessary, and our ancestors
were happier without them, as the inhabitants of Sark still
are ; that it is possible to cross London by tube a good deal
faster than by taxi; that cars break down, and freeze up,
and get ditched, and catch ﬁre, and skid into shop windows,
and menace the morals of innocent young women. As to
the effectiveness of mere palliatives, I could point to the

4




pedestrian crossings that most pedestrians ignore, the trafﬁc
policemen diverted from other duties, the safety-ﬁrst weeks
and pathetic posters, and the ghastly toll of life and limb
that accrues to the motorist every week in spite of all.
I could allege that every driver is a Toad of Toad Hall at
heart and every road—house bar a Sybaris seething with
tipsy road—hogs. I could paint a picture of the highways
of this country as a gladiatorial arena ﬁlled with sadistic
speed—maniacs in pursuit of agile and terriﬁed pedestrians,
and strewn with the corpses of honest cyclists who have
been butchered to make an English bank holiday.

I could put out a very strong propaganda for the abolition
of- the motor-car, and-arouse strong feelings against motor—
ists, but my prospect of success would be pretty much the
same as the prospect of abolishing all experiments on
animals. Parliament, guided by the Government’s technical
advisers, would prefer to fall back on such expedient‘s as
imposing a driving test, invoking the good will and decent
feeling of the motoring fraternity, using traffic lights and
trafﬁc policemen and zebra crossings, and in the last resort
taking legal action against outstanding offenders.

WHAT IS THE USE OF EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS P ,
Medicine is partly empirical and partly scientiﬁc. Mi-
graine is often treated empirically ; the doctor tries various
palliatives that have been known to give some relief, and
if he ﬁnds one that suits his patient a little better than others
he may not know why it should do so. Experiments on
animals are of little use to empirical medicine ; it is useless
to try such things on the dog because the dog’s reactions
may be quite different from thOse of a human patient.
Scientific medicine, on the other hand, is based on an
understanding of the way the body works, and on the
natural history of bacteria and protozoa and helminths.

5

 

 




 

 

 

All’mammals have bl'OOd, lungs, stomachs and nerves, and
the differences as well as the resemblances between specie-s
make possible the Comparative method which is a powerful
organon Of. biological research. By means of controlled
experiments a‘ general understanding of the laws that
deScribe organic life can be built up, and in the light of that
understanding medical treatments can be devised. The
difference between empirical and scientiﬁc medicine is like
the-difference between an amateur changing one or two parts
in a faulty wirelessvset in the hope that it will come right,
and a wireless mechanic'who knows the circuit going over
it with voltmeter'and oscilloscope Now medicine, in so
far as it has become scientific, depends on physiology,
pathology and pharmacology, and those sciences could not
have progressed so far as they have without experiments on
animals. ! - .

That 18 not to 'say, by an means, that even experiment
leads to useful knowledoemﬁome verV cruel experiments
have been ill co‘n'ceiVed,‘ o'b'ale designed, unnecessary, :and
wastefully carried out. Nevertheless, to admit all this is
very different from saying that, by and large, experiments
on animals have not yielded useful knowledge, that would
be not only untrue but fantastic, like saying that the earth
is flat or that rheumatism 1s caused bV witchcraft.

THE RISKS TO 'WHICH LABORATORY ANIMALS ARE. liXPOSli 1)

“Pain is a sensation, like touch, sight and hearing, and
is something totally difierent from intelligence and self-
Consciousness In animals and men alike there are pain—
nerve fibres, no less than optic nerves and nerve fibres for
sensing heat, cold, sound and mu5cular tension. Sensation
is a? more primitive mode of consciousness than thought
or introspection,- and the senses of fanim‘alsoften have—a
IOWer”'threshol'd than those of men; as for instance, has

6




 

 

 

smell in the dog, night vision'in the cat, and touchin the
pig’s snout. ,An authoritative treatment of the sensibility
of animalsto pain will be. found in the UFAW monograph
T be Scientiﬁc Basis of Kindness 2‘0 Animals, by Dr John R.
Baker, F.R.S., and in the Internczz‘iona/ Symposium 0n the
Assessment ofPain in Man nndAnima/s, published by UFAV‘V.
, It is a tragic error to suppose that because animals are less
intelligent than men they therefore feel less pain. 7 A young
baby is less intelligent than'a kitten 0f the same age, but
not less sensitive. Emotions such as fear are-more primitive
than thought or reason, and animals; appear tohaVe emotions
as strong as, if less complicated than, those of human
beings. ; . ' . . a
Laboratory animals aresexposed to nine risks ze—
(-1) Certain animals,- the horse, cat and dog, aremOre
generally understood and consequently more popular than
other species In a foreign country experiments done on.
dogs under anaesthetics have been repeated on less popular
animals 'Without anaesthetics.- There' is 'a..‘danger that
animals like rats, which happen to be unpopular butrare
just as sensitive as are the customary pets, may be sacriﬁced

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

in'deference to ill—informed popular sentiment.

(2) When a research worker has to adjudicate between
the claims of his own research and those of the material
he is using in it, he is likely to be biased in favour of the
former.

(3) A doctor’s job is to care for human life and limb, and it
is, an extremely exacting one, so much so that there is a risk
of his under—valuing considerations other than those which
concern his profession. When, therefore, the claims of
laboratory animals have to be balanced against those of
human medicine a medical scientist might be biased. A
zoologist or a veterinary surgeon, who on one hand is a
human being himself and on the other is a student of
animals, might ﬁnd it easier to take an unbiased View.

(4) A person who feels it his duty to inﬂict some degree
of suffering is in danger of having his sensibility blunted
in the course of time in respect of what at first was repugnant
to_ him, and the more sensitive he is by temperament the
more he tends to shield his feelings bx repression. This
hardening effect seems to be largely speciﬁc , a person
becomes callous about things he is accustomed to do, but
not necessarily about anything else. The old rule that
butchers should not serve on juries in trials for murder,
for fear that they might take too lenient a view of morti—
ferous practices, was based on a very speculative psychology.

In general, I believe that the average biologist is probably
more, not less, humane than the average layman, especially
in respect of unpopular animals like rats and guinea- pigs 9
nevertheless the danger of his becoming callous about
experimental procedures is a real one that he must take
deliberate precautions against, especially when very large
numbers of very similar animals, such as mice, are in use.

(5) Psychopathic cruelty, a morbid pleasure in th6
infliction of suffering, is not uncommon; witness the crowds

S




who used to flock to see a hanging. Moreover it can
coexist with acute intellectual gifts, as it did in the Marquis
de Sade himself, and there is therefore a possibility that
suﬂerers from this complaint might be attracted into research
of the more drastic kind, such as studies of shock. I do
not know of any such case in Britain, but there are clear
indications of sadism in some foreign experiments. In
certain excessively cruel foreign work on rats the number
of animals used was far in excess of what was requisite for
the purpose in View, and in some cruel psycho-physiological
experiments on dogs the experimenter spent “ from one to
seven hours almost daily ” watching the animals during
seven months in one case and twelve months in another.
Again the work of Selye in Canada is notorious, though.
scientiﬁcally it is losing esteem

(6) The psychological requirements of the animals used
have not hitherto been sufficiently studied. UFAW’ is
sponsoring a research on this subject.

(7) In most countries there is nothing to prevent scienti-
fically incompetent persons from experimenting on animals.
In the United States children are allowed to send up live
mice in rockets in the belief that they are being scientiﬁc,
and have been encouraged to take part in quasi-scientiﬁc
activities which include toxicity tests, intraperitonal transfer
of cancer cells, the effect of heat on cancer growth, and
even perfusion experiments. “ Surgical procedures are
especially thrilling to pupils ”, who have been allowed to
“ take mice and other animals home to use in experiments
conducted in their own rooms and basements.” They have
been encouraged to cultivate what is called an “impersonal
and objective ”, i.e., a nomsympathetic, attitude towards the
animals. Commercial ﬁrms have offered prizes and facilities
for children’s experiments, and these are popularized 1n the
annual Science Fair.

9

 

 




 

 

 

(8) Incorrect or callous husbandry and lack Of trained.

. animal technicians are serious problems in some countries.
(9) Beginners need training in responsibility for the

animals they use. -

HOW MUCH DO LABORATORY ANIMALS SUFFER IN BRITAIN .3 _

1A clear distinction must be drawn between laboratories in
Britain and those in other countries. A number of the
latter have laws regulating experiments on animals, but
most have either no such law or inadequate machinery for
implementing it. 1 - '

The system existing in this country is very British. It is
archaic and illogical and yet it has worked very well,
though its task has somewhat outgrown its resources. A
person who knew no more about it than what he could
learn from the wording-of. the Act of I 876 might-suppose it
to be ‘mere eye-wash, but- anybody‘who thinks it really is
mere eye-wash should compare British with American ex-
perimentation and then think again. A kind of traditional
gentlemen’s agreement has grown up between scientists and
the Home Ofﬁce, and though one may wish it to be improved
in certain ways it afiords a unique degree of protection to
laboratory animals.

The law, which is rather complicated, is summarized in
UFAW’ s pamphlet Suggestions for the Legal Proteetioe 0f
Laboraiogl Animal; Overseas, and only some of its practical
effects will be mentioned here. mEvery experimenter must
be licensed by the Home Office, and licences are by. no
-means to be had for'the asking." Fore-experiments on con-
s'cious animals a certiﬁCate as well as a licence is required,
and permission is'never given to perform an operation more
serious than simple inoCulation'or superficial venesection on
any vertebrate, be it ~dog,”ra‘t or frog, without ransxSthesia.
Most of the operated animals are allowed to recover: con.-

IO

 




sciousness and their condition thereafter depends on the
skill and care with which they are nursedas well as on, the
nature of the operation. »

Most experiments do not involve any surgical operation
and in these cases anxsthetics are. usually dispensed with.
Althoughvin strict law the "Act applies only to“ experiments
calculated to cause pain ”, by a gentlemen’s agreement‘al‘l
experiments which are calculated to interfere with the
normal health or comfort of an animal, are dealt._with under
it. Some involve no sufferingat all; for instance animals
may be infected and then killed before their maladybecomes
painful, or a sample of blood or a vaginal smear may be
taken after administration of a hormone. Other experie
ments involve some discomfort, such as moderate fever Or
the formation of a tumour which does not reach. a painful
stage. But there are Others again, even in Britain,,which
are more serious and involve disagreeable symptoms ;
these are very much leSs numerous but they exist.

.. All experiments on conscious animals arersubject to the
Pain Rule, which requires z'm‘er did that any animal foundto
be suffering severe pain which is likely to endure must
forthwith be painlessly killed; and this must be done
whether the main result of the experiment has been ”achieved
or not. -

The Home Ofﬁce has a staff of inspectors who visit each
laboratory several times a year on. the average. The
second Royal Commission recommended. on the basis of
the 1905; ﬁgures. that the number of inspectors should be
doubled, and the number of laboratories has increased so
much since then that there would have to be a great many
more inspectors if the recommended scale were to be
reached; on the other hand the quality of the inspectors
matters far more than their number You cannot, of course,
deal with responsible scientists on a detective-and- suspected-

1.1

 

 




 

criminal basis, and although the inspectors have disciplinary
poWers‘ in reserve their primary function is to advise licensees
who must be presumed to be humane, and in fact appear to
be so with only rare exceptions. The inspectors ought,
however, to be able to consider all types of experiment
minutely, bring precedents under periodical review, go
fully into the humanitarian and technical qualiﬁcations of
applicants for licences, and carry out several other duties,
but their task may well have outgrown their numbers.

. Apart from experimental procedures there is the important
question of the housing, care and comfort of the animals.
This is a serious matter, and one in which very much can
be done for their beneﬁt. A great deal of attention is in
fact being paid to it as a result of the work of the Labor~
atory Animals Centre and Animal Technicians’ Association
and the publication of Tim UFAIV Handbook, and in this
connection let us bear in mind that the greater the care
and aﬂ'ection lavished on the animals in the animal room,
the greater the consideration that will be shown to them in
the laboratory. Psychological attitudes are infectious.

How MUCH DO LABORATORY ANIMALS SUFFER IN FOREIGN
LABORATORIES ? ,

Descartes’s theory of vortices survived Sir Isaac Newton
by some 50 years on the continent, but his even more
preposterous theory of the robot animal has survived
Charles Darwin longer yet, and still colours the Latin attitude
on such subjects. The late Professor E. H. Starling once
assured me that much French and Italian physiology had
been vitiated by failure to eliminate the effects of pain, and
when I mentioned this remark to Sir Joseph Barcroft it
brOught out the comment that he once had to quit a French
laboratory because the cruelty going on there was going to
make him vomit. These two were physiologists of world-

12




wide reputation, not likely to be sentimental or squeamish.

In most foreign countries there is no law for the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals, in laboratories or anywhere else,
and all too little mercy of any kind for man or beast.

Responsible American research workers have a voluntary
ethical code and presumably many conform to it, though
here again the less popular animals seem to come off worst.
The code cannot be enforced by law, and instances of pro-
longed torture of a wholly unjustifiable nature occur. While
there are laboratories, such as those of Parke Davis, where
the husbandry is excellent, there are others in which it is
backward and there is insufficient regard for the comfort or
feelings of the animals. Animals are wastefully used,
funds being poured out like water for experimentation by
both experts and dabblers. British scientists who have
worked in the United States have often been shocked by
what they have seen. The Animal Welfare Institute , of
New York is advocating legislation based, ﬂit/tati: lizz/z‘andz'x,
on British experience, and carries on an educational campaign
in favour of good husbandry and handling of laboratory
animals, and of sane methods of teaching biology in schools,
but it faces bitter and very unscrupulous opposition from
vested interests.

Again, the British Commonwealth as a whole lags far
behind the mother country.

On the other hand the International Committee on
Laboratory Animals, recently formed with the aid of
UNESCO, is in good hands and is likely to do good work
for animal husbandry.

ETHICS: (I) SUFFERING NOT ARISING OUT OF TECHNICAL
REQUIREMENTS

Much unnecessary suffering can be prevented if sufﬁcient
trouble is taken by a competent staff, and in the best labor—

1%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

atories this is done. In Britain there 1s :1 strong movement
afoot for bringing the care of animals in all laboratories up
to the standard of the best. The techniques of anaesthesia
(with precautions against premature recovery) and euthan-
asia; operative skill and post- operative care, including the
use of drugs to ease post operative pain; the selection and
training of Laboratory Technicians and Animal Technicians;
housing, feeding and watering , hygiene, bedding, light,
shelter and ventilation ; company, play and exercise ; gentle,
skilful and frequent handling ; a considerate recognition of
the fact that sentient creatures are not test tubes nor mach-
ines ; all such things can make the difference between
misery and a, maximum of comfort. There can be no
legitimate difference of opinion about their importance.
Here is another matter that does not admit of any legiti-
mate differenceof opinion. When an experiment involves
any degree of suffering it is morally wrong to use animals
wastefully. ,For instance, homogeneous stocks of rats,
mice and hamsters Show far less variability than animals
bought from a small dealer, so that fewer of them are needed
for a given degree of precision. further, the factorial
planning of experiments with a view to an analysis of
variance often reduces greatly the number of observations
required ; sequential sampling may possibly lead to a further
reduction ; and recently it has been found that certain
specific factors may. affect variance. ,Again, economy in
sampling can be promoted (L6,, waste can be avoided) by
choosing the right-strain of the right species for each
particular research. Finally, a preliminary search of the
literature will obviate the waste of animals on unnecessary
repetition of experiments; in the United States the fan—;
tastic increase in amateurish experimentation is'making
such :a search difﬁcult or impossible. It will be agreed. by
everybody that there is; a _moral obligation. to take [all Such

I4




precautions in order to prevent the useless multiplication
of suffering. .

ETHICS: (2) MAN AND BEAST .

The matters discussed 1n the preceding paragraph do not
admit of any reasonable difTerence of opinion, but we now
come to a 'more difficult question. When suffering cannot
be avoided if 'a givenexperiment is to be carried out, where
is the line to be drawn ?‘ We are faced with the perplexing
problem of choosing the lesser of two evils and saying
how far the end can justify the means. ‘ Clearly it cannot
do so without limit. The Nazis by sacrificing a few
prisoners in controlled experiments sought to save the lives
of thousands of Germans, but most people hold that they
were wrong in doing so, however valuable the results they
hoped to achieve. The utilitarian principle breaks down
if you push it too far. 1* ~

On what basis are the interests of animals to be weighed
against those of man? Extremists. on. one side and the
other feel no diﬂiculty. Anti—vivisectionists say that no
experiments ought to. be done. onanimals at all, but'take
this case: One method of assaying narCotics consists in
giving a minute dose to a rat Who has learned to run through
a maze for his dinner, and noting how far the narcotic
slows him down by comparison with his established handie
cap. Can anybody call that cruel? - Atthe- other: extreme
we have fanatics who say that mere animals must. always be
sacrificed to human interests ;- that any outrage, hoWever
horrible, may be perpetrated against an animal if the
human raCe stands to gain by it. But take this other
extreme case. 'Veal used ‘to, be made by hangingvup acalf
by the hind feet, bleeding it slowly, and maltreatingait
meanwhile to make it struggle; The extra*~white,-veal
might, tickle a gourmet’s appetite, butis this worﬁhﬁthat?

.1‘5

 

 

 

 




 

Setting aside both extremes a moderate person has to draw
the line somewhere between them, and the question is,
where i”

We must distinguish clearly between killing and hurting.
To kill an. animal is a far less serious matter than to kill a
human being. For one thing only a small percentage of
animals can reach maturity in. any case, for otherwise there
would soon be no room left in the world; hence we kill
unwanted puppies and kittens. There is no harm in killing
animals provided it be done painlessly. For instance, a
method of testing milk for tubercular infection consists
in injecting a preparation into guinea- -pigs, killing the animals
painlessly before the disease has reached a stage where it
can cause any suffering, and then making a post- -mortem
examination. Nobody can reasonably object to that.

But when it comes to hurting, as distinct from killing,
is there any reason why hurting an animal should be less
objectionable than hurting a man with. the same intensity?
We must not allow this issue to be confused by the side-
issue of social repercussions. If you hurt a man, you also
cause distress to his relatives and friends and you may
incapacitate him from carrying out his social duties ; these
considerations do not arise in the case of an animal and they
have to be taken into account, but they are irrelevant to the
principle of our question and must not be allowed to confuse
it. Apart from these social repercussions, is it more
objectionable to hurt a man than an animal .3 I should say
deﬁnitely not, and if anybody thinks that it is, it is pertinent
to put the question “ Why? ” Is it on the ground that
animals have no souls, that is to say no future life? But
if it is true that they have none, there 13 all the more reason
for making happy the only life they are to have. Is it
because animals are less intelligent than human beings 9 If
so, children ought to be hurt in preference to adults, who

16

 




 

are more intelligent than they. Is it‘because a human
personality is more valuable than that of an animal? Its
value is irrelevant to hurting, though not to killing: to
cause pain to a mentally sick person is not preferable to
causing pain to a hale-minded and therefore more valuable
one. Is it that animals are less lovable than human beings .3
I kept pet rats as a boy and lived among wild ones in the
trenches, and found it as easy to love them as I have found
it difﬁcult to love Nero and Louis XIV and Himmler, and
some further cast that I could mention, and for that matter
some nearer home as well. If I am asked “ What about
your own relations and friends?” I reply that I might
be tempted to commit perjury to save one of them from, the
gallows, but that would not make perjury right. I know
of no reason except prejudice for preferring that an animal
rather than a random human being should sutfer a given
amount of pain, provided always that individual suffering
be distinguished from its social repercussions and from the
risk of death. ‘

ETHICS : (3) SUFFERING ARISING OUT 01': TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
When an experiment cannot be carried out without the
inﬂiction of suffering, in what cases can the end justify the
means P To answer this question, considerations which are
quantitive and yet cannot be measured have to be balanced
against one another. That is a difficult task, and gives rise
to differences of opinion between humane and reasonable
persons, but it is what any jury has to do when there is a
conﬂict of evidence. The difﬁculty of the task is a reason
for devoting care and thought to it, but not for shirking it
or taking refuge in extreme views or short cuts. ,
Experiments calculated to cause pain are permitted in
Britain (subject, however, to the Pain Rule) for the advance-
ment of either (i) “physiological,” 226., biological, knowledge,

I- 7
.

 

 




 

 

 

or knowledge useful fOr (ii) saving or prolonging life or
(iii) alleviating suffering. '

(i) As regards fundamental or pure biology: the mere
satisfaction of scientiﬁc curiosity. cannot justify the inﬂiction
of serious suffering. One can never tell, of course,whether
any given item of fundamental knowledge may turn out to be
useful for the prevention or relief of pain, but only direct
relevance to somemedical application for that, purpose can
justify experiments involving appreciable suffering.

' (ii) The mere prolongation of bodily life 15 not t)regarded

as of over—riding importance in Christian ethics, nor by
those who, in war or otherwise, sacriﬁce their lives for an
ideal. I do not see how seriously painful experiments can
be justiﬁed for-such a purpose, quite. apart frOm the terrible
prospect ofover—population which already threatens civiliz—
ation, with disaster. Personally, I would most certainly not
wish :my own and others’ lives to be prolonged at the cost
of such tortures as have been inﬂicted in New—World; experi-
ments on shock, and I believe that anyone who thinks the
thing out must come to the same conclusion.

(iii) ’ "When knOWledge that will prevent a large amount
of. suffering can be obtained by inﬂicting a relatively small
amount, then many will hold that the end may justify :the
means, fthough again it is a question of degree. It must be
remembered, however, that the value of a research is always
problematical till the workhas been done. At the very
least the objective must be clear and fully adequate, the
probability of success high. 'Every precaution, including
economy in sampling, must betaken to reduce suffering to
a' minimum, and there must certainly'be an upper limit to
what may be .done. In no case would it be justiﬁable to
suspend the Pain Rule, for instance. The second ROyal
C'Qmmission, ﬁve out of Whose‘sevenmembers weremedical,
laid dO'Wn that rule absolutely and Without qualiﬁcation.

18




FTHICS: (4) THE CRITERION

If it be assumed that the inﬂiction Of appreciable suﬂering
may be justiﬁable in exceptional circumstanCes, when there
is a high-probability of relieving muCh greater suﬂéring by
means of the knowledge to-be gained, a criterion‘is’needed
for. enabling the decision for or against to be fairly taken in
any particular case. A suitable criterion for use by "the
person who is‘V’t‘o make the-decision can be reached in the
followingr way. He“ must begin by putting himself in
imagination in the place of the'anima‘l. - This can be done :
every sucCessful animal—trainer has to 'do it; animal—
psychologists do it, some deliberately like Bierens de Haan
and some while pretending not to, like the behaviourists
The experimenter or inspector must, then, put himself in
imagination in the place of the animal.- He must ignore
social repercussions and the risk of death (which alone can
justify him in choosing a victim other than himself) and
fOc‘us his attentionon the! 111d1v1dual experience of pain ()1:
fear involved; and he must now ask' himself“ ShOuld I
myself be willing to endure that degree of suffering in order
to attain the'object in View. 9 ”. If not, his decision must
be negative, and no experimenter has a right to do- to an
animal what he would not be willing to have done to
himself, but fOr any social repercussions or risk of death
that might be entailed. ' '

POLIC'1

In View of the technical nature of the problems that
arise, the last word in the regulation of experimental biology
must always rest with scientists. The wise and realistic
polim for animal- -protecti0nists is therefore to enlist the
Sympathy and co- operation of the scientific world, and this
is not diﬂicult. Experience has Shown that scientists, in-
eluding medical men and vivisectors,‘ will co- operate cordi—

I9

 

 

 




 

ally with other animal-lovers if approached in a reasonable
way, and many of them are deeply concerned about the more
painful sort of experiments, as well as about the proper
care of the animals. \Vhat is needed is the frank discussion
of the very difﬁcult problems that arise, and that is impossible
in the cut and thrust of controversy and mutual recrimin-
ation.

A vivisector who has held a Home Ofﬁce licence for a
good many years wrote this to me with regard to certain
experiments done in the New World: “It seems to me
that the animal welfare movement is aﬁm‘e if no objection
is made to experiments such as these. I did not know of
their existence till you put me on to them. If that is science,
I should rather clean out a lavatory for a living than call
myself a scientist—far rather, for that would be a useful
and honourable job.” I quote this private letter, written
in the heat of the moment and not for publication, in order
to show our anti—vivisectionist, friends that it is possible
for an experienced vivisector, a keen scientist, to feel as
strongly as they do themselves about experiments which
are cruel. In May, 19 57, about 120 research scientists
attended a symposium organized by UFAW on “ Humane
Technique in the Laboratory ”. Most of the papers were
published under the auspices of the Medical Research
Council, and two were published in full in T be Lamet.

The behaviour of individuals is governed largely by the
standards prevailing in the circles to which they belong.
The surest way of befriending laboratory animals is there
fore to cultivate inside the scientific world a public opinion
actively concerned with their interests. The lead must be
taken by persons with scientiﬁc qualiﬁcations, but laymen
can give sympathetic support if they approach scientists in
a sane and knowledgeable way.

Since science is international it offers perhaps the most

20




promising channel for conveying British ideas of the right
treatment of animals, not only inside but also, outside
laboratories, to less advanced countries. Britain was
notorious for cruelty a century and a half ago but has made
such advances since then that most other nations are back-
ward by comparison. With this in mind ‘ UFAW has
published Aﬂggmtiom for the Legal Prater/ma of Laboratory
Ania/alt Ozrl'erseay. ‘ * 7

IMPROVEMENTS

Britain has reason to be proud of the way she has handled
the problem of animal experimentation, but in this as in all
other human undertakings constant progress ispossible.
A few feasible improvements will be suggested. '

An increase in expenditure on Home Ofﬁce inspectors is
desirable, not for police purposes but in order that their
task of promoting a uniform standard of humaneness may
be more easily carried out, with maximum efﬁciency and
plenty of time to think. The Home Ofﬁce inspectorate
could advantageously include one or more veterinary
surgeons who could advise on animal management. It is
desirable that existing precedents should be continuously
reviewed in relation to the Pain Rule, and that zoologists,
veterinary surgeons and judicious animal-protectionists
should be consulted regularly.

Special consideration should be given to the unpopular
Species, such as rats and mice, which are less sure of being
treated with care than are dogs and cats.

Every encouragement is deserved by what is being done
to improve the training, status and selection of. laboratory
technicians and animal technicians, and the status of the
latter might be improved by generalizing-the provision of a
ladder of promotion affording a good career to entrants of
the right type. Some system of awards for distinguished

21

 

 

 




 

service in the animal. room might be worthy of consideration.
Similarly, the work of the Laboratory Animals Centre for
raising the standards of accommodation and husbandry
deserves the applause of animal—lovers.

Expenditure on animal rooms is needed on a much more
generOus scale than has hitherto prevailed. On this i mport-
ant point many scientists agree ; it is for the lay governors
of hospitals and research institutions to give better priority
to improving accommodation. But scientists might some—
times allocate a better share of their research grants to
cages and similar equipment. Some of the commercial
laboratories set a good example.

his very desirable that scientiﬁc papers should specify,
with all necessary detail, the technique of any anaesthesia
that may be used, and any other special precautions against
causing suffering. This is particularly valuable for the
ediﬁcation of beginners in research and of foreign readers.

The psychology of laboratory animals has not hitherto
been sufficiently studied in relation to their mental comfort ;
the conditions under which they are normally kept are not
necessarily optimal from their point of view, and the
faCtors which matter to them need to be identified. Con-
tinuous study of the techniques of anmsthesia and euthan-‘
'asia also is called for. ”Researches are being carried out at
Birmingham and in the Royal Veterinary College respective-
ly, under the auspices of UFAW, for these two purposes,
and the Laboratory Animals Science Society also is inter—
ested.

:In‘ the aSSay of therapeutic substances a choice of altern—
ative techniques is often available. Those are to be pre-
ferred which do not involve discomfort or suffering, and
hard. work is needed in devising humane techniques in
cases. in which none is available at present. Resistance to
change of factory routine is natural but to be avoided.

212




Precision which is swamped by variance in the response of
patients to whom a drug will be administered is undesirable
as entailing a wasteful use of animals.

ENVOI .

To sum up, it seems that anti-vivisectionists took a wrong
turning after the passage of the Cruelty to Animals Act,
1876, and that animal-protectionists ought now to go back to
their original policy of co—operating with humane scientists
in order to obtain the maximum of practical protection for
laboratory animals. The considerable success of the
system administered by the Home Office points out the
direction in which effective advantages can be obtained.
Ethical abstractions, however sincerely believed in, do not
really help at all. If we are to befriend laboratory animals
effectively we must deal with the facts as they actually are.

In only a few foreign countries is there any system for
keeping experiments on animals in the hands of those who
are scientifically competent to do them, and for setting a
limit to the suffering which may be caused ; if British anti-
Vivisectionists have failed of their avowed aim, their fellows
Overseas have for the most part nothing at all to show for
all their exuberance. It is to humane scientists, and especi-
ally to humane biologists, that we must look for leadership
and effective action, but laymen can help if they will under-
stand the difﬁcult parts of the problem and approach the
scientific world in an informed way. Above all it is
necessary to create an atmosphere of sanity and objective-
ncss and intellectual honesty in which the very difficult
ethical problems that arise can be discussed discriminately,
without the excitableness and invective that the subject has
come to be associated with in many minds.

Iv

U.)

 

 




 

 

 

  

THE ASSESSMENT OF PAIN IN MAN AND ANIMALS,
The Proceedings of an International. Symposium held under the
auspices of UFAW’ and under the Presidency of Lord Brain,
July, 1961. Edited by C. A. Keele, M.D., F.R.C.P., F.F.A.R.C.S.’,
and Robert Smith, M.A., M.D., B.Ch., B.r\.(). 556 pp., 95
illustrations. Price 505. Distributed by E. and S. Livingstone,
Ltd.

 

 

INTRODUCTION TO THE ANAESTHESIA OF
LABORATORY ANIMALS by Phyllis G. Croft, ’Ph.D.,
M.R.C.V.S. ,52 pp. 5r. 6d. ,

 

 

THE- UFAW HANDBOOK ON THE CARE AND
MANAGEMENT OF LABORATORY ANIMALS. Joint
Editors: Alastair N. W'orden, M.A.(Cantab.), B.Sc.(Lond.),
M.R.C.V.S., F.R.I.C., 8: W. Lane~Petter, M.z\., M.B., B.Chir.
(Cantab). 972 pp. 559 illus. Price 703. from E. & S.
Livingstone Ltd, 16 and 17 Teviot Place, Edinburgh 1.

“It would be hard to overstate the importance of this book,
which should be looked on as a compulsory purchase by all who
undertake animal experiments.” Tbe Lancet.

“ It would be difﬁcult- to praise this book too highly as a work
of reference.” Animal Breeding Abrlmcl‘r.

.“ The welfare of the animal is always uppermost in the authors’
minds, and there is an urgent" message ’ throughout that only
the best is good enough.” Veterinary Record.

KIND KILLING, by F. Jean Vinter, M.D. 52 pp. Price 611.
Practical instructions for painlessly killing a variety of animals.

  

 

 

 




 

 

MAN AND BEAST by C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc.,
M.I.Biol., illustrated by Fougasse. Collected reprints of articles
by Major 1 lume on the principles and practice of animal welfare,
224 pp., 28 illustrations. 15:.

 

 

HUMANE TECHNIQUE IN THE LABORATORY.
Papers read at a symposium held by UFAW on 8th May, 1957.
Published as Vol. 6 of the Laboratory Animals Centre Collected
Papers. 81 pp. Price IOJ‘. post free. Foreword by Prof. P. B.
Medawar, .\l..A., D.Sc., C.B.E., F.R.S. Contributors: Major
C. W. Hume, M.C., B.Se., W. Lane-Petter, M.A., M.B., Phyllis
G. Croft, Ph.l)., .M.R.C.V.S., W. M. S. Russell, M.A., D.Phil.,
G. Sykes .\l.Sc., F.R.I.C., F. Kingsley Sanders, M.A., D.Phil.,
W. Grey Walter, ’;\I.A., Sc.D., M. R. A. Chance, D.Sc., Joyce L.
Bloom. H.512

 

THE STRATEGY AND TACTICS OF EXPERIMENT-
ATION and SOLDIERS AND LABORATORY ANIMALS.
Papers from the above symposium by Major C. W. Hume,
M.C., B.Sc. Reprinted from the Lamel'. Gratis.

 

M——~
“~___._w

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE LEGAL PROTECTION OF
LABORATORY ANIMALS OVERSEAS, with a summary
of British law and practice on which the suggestlons are based,
with improvements. Prepared in 1954 by the Selentiﬁc Sub—
Committee of UFAVV. Gratis.

 

 

 

w“_ __ .

h;

 

THE PRINCIPLES OF HUMANE EXPERIMENTAL,
TECHNIQUE, by W. M. S. Russell, M.A., D.Ph11., M.I.Biol.,
and R. L. Burch. 248 pp., 9 illus., 22 tables. .

Published by Methuen & Co., Ltd. 50:.

 




 

Printed in Great Britain
by Martin's Printing Works Ltd..
Berwick-upon-Tweed.

 

 




AVAILABLE TO SCIENTISTS from the ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

trated. FREE on request to persons employed in scientific institutions
where animals are used.

AIMINISTRATORS ARE INVITED TO PLACE ORDERS FOR EACH PERSON IN THE
INSTITUTION TO WHOM THEY WISH TO GIVE A FREE COPY. PROFESSORS IN
COLLEGES OF MEEICINE, VETERINARY MEDICINE, PHARMACY, AND AGRICUL-
TURE, WHO ARE TEACHING PROPER CARE OF LABORATORY ANIMALS TO THEIR
CLASSES, WILL BE SENT A FREE COPY FOR EACH STUDENT ON REQUEST.
PLEASE INDICATE THE NUMBER NEEDED.

COMFORTABLE QUARTERS FOR LABORATORY AND’IA—LS. New revised edition, 103 pages,
illustrated. FREE on request to scientific institutions planning to
build, remodel, or re-equip animal quarters.

LABORATORY DOGS. 16mm. sound film showing humane care and housing of dogs
in an experimental surgery laboratory. Reduced by Crawley Films.
For one week's rental, $3; purchase $50.

HANDLING LABORATORY M. 16mm. sound film showing proper handling of
twelve common species of laboratory animals. For one week's rental,
$3; purchase $75.

A__N INTROHICTION 1g TILE ANAESTHESIA 9E LABORATORY AND’LALS. By Phyllis G.
Croft, Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S. Published by The Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare. 30 pages. Price 50¢.

11g PRINCIPLES 9g HUMANE mmmENTAL TECHNIQU . By w. M. 3. Russell and
R. L. Burch. Published by Charles C. Thomas. 228 pages. Price $6.25.

STUDYING 911R; FELLOW MAMMALS. By Ernest P. Walker. Published by the Animal
Welfare Institute. 172 pages, 152 illustrations. Price $1.00.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, P. O. Box 31492, Grand Central Station, New York, New York, 10017
Please send me the items checked above:

Name

 

Address

 

 

Institution

 

Remarks

 

 




an.

THEOLOGICAL 504.5an

April, 1962

Chairman of the Acting
Theological Section: Secretory—Editor:

THE REV. CANON MAJOR C. W. HUME
S. GRAHAM BRADE-BIRKS, D.Sc. M.C., B.SC., M.I.BIOL.

AN APPEAL BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE SECTION

Overbearing scorn may repudiate the moral obligations we owe to our
interiors, even our human interiors, but this is quite incompatible with
Christianity. Selﬁshness may be extended to such an extent that it begrudges
any kindly act towards our non—human fellow creatures; but selﬁshness,
whatever its form, is contrary to the ethics of our holy religion. The author
of the paper which begins on page 5, in judging our responsibility towards
animals in connection with experimental work in biological laboratories,
sets before us two principles, those of humility and charity, in establishing
a rule for experimenters and Home Ofﬁce inspectors and I am sure that
what he says deserves our closest attention. V

\Ve need very many Christian leaders so convinced and well—informed
with regard to the relation that should exist between man and animals
that they will be able to pass on to their people a reasonable view of their
responsibilities towards the humbler creation. For this reason I make
a strong plea to all who receive this Bulletin to take the immediate step
of writing to say they will join the Theological Section of UFA\V. Only
by your co—operation can we make a success of this part of the great Federa—
tion’s work and encourage, as Christians, What it is thus doing to bring to
individual consciences the responsibility of all religious people in the matter
of Animal \Velfare.

SOB-B.

 




 

 

FORUM
Texts for Sermons

IT has been suggested that it might be a good idea to publish some texts
suitable for sermons in a future issue of this Bulletin ; but we might go
further than that and ask for some indications of topics and their treatment.
What suggestions can readers let us have? Notes for sermons would prove
useful to some of us. SOB—B.

Animals in the hereafter

Some of us have felt hitherto that we need not bother about Aquinas’s
thesis that “ the souls of animals are not immortal ” because if true it would
only strengthen the moral obligation to treat animals well. We may have
been wrong, however, quite apart from the grief occasioned by the death of
animal friends, because : (1) the negative view encourages backward people
to treat animals as if they were things ; (2) it makes for disbelief in human
immortality, as Clutton—Brock has pointed out; and (3) it aggravates the
difﬁculty of the problem of pain. Anyhow, we shall print here the ﬁrst two
of the very few letters sent in for Forum, and both of them happen to relate
to this subject. EDITOR.

Sir,

I congratulate you on the appearance of the ﬁrst number of the Bulletin,
which I have read with great interest, and in response to your appeal for
letters on appropriate subjects I would like to offer the following little
story which is relevant to your headings ”whey and A future life. An
Edinburgh friend (a Roman Catholic) used to impress me by the following
theory which she put forward on more than one occasion. It was this :—
“ I know that I love my cat ; I know that God loves me ; therefore, God
must love my cat ; otherwise my love would be greater than God’s, and that is
impossible. And if God loves my cat, then it must have a soul, and it has as
much right to go to Heaven as I have.” Could any argument be more
convincing?

(MIss) MARGARET PATTISON, London.

Sir,

In your March issue of the Theological Bulletin you mention the question
of immortality in animals. The thought that an animal may be immortal
raises awkward questions for many of us ! I don’t mean on theological grounds
because the fact that Christ says “ Are not ﬁve sparrows sold for two
farthings P and not one of them is forgotten before God ” (Luke 12, 6) and
that Paul writes “ For the created universe waits with eager expectation
for God’s sons to be revealed . . . yet always there was hope, for the universe
itself is to be freed from the shackles of mortality” (Romans 8, 19, 21,
N.E.B.) seems to make it clear, in spite of the opposite View held by manv,
that animals do have their place in eternity. I

The awkwardness of the question of immortality in animals arises from
the fact that since animals are not forgotten by God in this world or eternity,
our treatment of them here, our sense of responsibility in connection with
them, are signiﬁcant criteria of our spiritual development — or lack of it !

(THE REV.) ALLEN M. OLD, Uddingston.

 

 




 

 

Killing and hurting
Sir,

Those who will not put a suffering animal out of its misery on religious
or ethical grounds are allowing the letter to kill the spirit. In a village
where I am known to be interested in animal welfare I often have small
animals, and particularly birds, brought to me in various stages of sickness
or injury. In over twenty years I have had only one case where recovery
was complete. In most cases I decided at once that the creature must be
destroyed. In two cases where I gave the beneﬁt of the doubt I later had to
kill the animal — and wished I had done so at the outset.

(MISS) E. M. BARRAUD, Cambridge.

Dramatic appeal
Sir,

Dramatic appeal should not determine priorities, but may be used
within decent limits for propaganda. "he limits must be ﬁrmly observed,
otherwise the propaganda recoils on itself and the whole cause of animal
welfare shares in the resulting contempt. There are almost no limits in the
case of deliberately spectacular amusements like bullﬁghting which deserve
to be fought with their own weapons. The dog in the Sputnik was a nasty
case, but it was certainly over—subscribed and I have seen it used as a
boomerang.

(Miss) DAPHNE SLEE, London.

Man as priest for the animals
Sir,

I send a quotation from John Norris (1657—1711), the last of the Cam-
bridge Platonists, which, I think, expresses quite well the theological position
of man as the crown of creation with regard to other creatures :— ” Man is
the only creature below that can actively praise and honour his great Maker
and Benefactor. Man therefore is concerned to honour and glorify God both for
himself and for all the creatures round about him, and as the whole world
is the Temple of the great God, so man is, as it were, the Priest in this region
of it, where he must undertake the office of honouring and glorifying God,
not only in his own, but also in the name of all this brave and incapable
part of creation.”

(THE REV.) T. J. TOWERS, Ford Estate, Sunderland.

LITURGY
From the Liturgy of St. Basil

The earth is the Lords and the fulness thereof. 0 God, enlarge within
us the sense of fellowship with all living things, our brothers the animals
to whom thou hast given the earth as their home in common with us. We
remember with shame that in the past we have exercised the high dominion
of man with ruthless cruelty, so that the voice of the earth, which should
have gone up to Thee in song, has been a groan of travail. May we realize
that they live, not for us alone, but for themselves and for Thee, and that
they love the sweetness of life.

Sent by THE REV. C. G. EARLY, Andhra Pradesh, India.
3

 




 

ITEMS OF NEWS

The new catechism of the Church of England

One of the six paragraphs under the heading “ My duty towards my
neighbour ” reads 2—— “ To hurt nobody by word or deed ; to bear no grudge
or hatred in my heart ; to be courteous to all ; and to be kind to all God’s
creatures.”

Christian citizenship in Nigeria

The Christian Citizenship Committee in Eastern Nigeria (Methodist)
has drawn up a list of 25 of “ Our Objects as Christian Citizens.” No. 14
reads: ” That kindness to children and animals created by God should
be practised.” Communicated by MR. S. R. HURST.

Cruel poisons

The Animals (Cruel Poisons) Bill, promoted jointly by UFAW and the
R.S.P.C.A., was introduced by the Earl of Cranbrook, a distinguished
zoologist who is President of the Mammal Society of the British Isles and of
Section X of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. It passed
second reading in the House of Lords on 30th January without a Division,
and stands a chance of being enacted this session. It would empower the
Home Secretary to prohibit cruel poisons. An article in the Shooting Times of
19th January pointed out that “ arsenic, being an irritant, actually inﬁames
certain tissues, and causes intense suffering, generally for a longer period. . . .
Even worse, from the rat’s point of View, is yellow phosphorus . . . can last
for days before death supervenes. Anyone who has poisoned rats with this
substance must have heard the unfortunate ones making feeble noises for
a long time under the ﬂoor . . . ” Red squill is as bad or worse, and so is
1080 (sodium ﬂuoroacetate). The right poison to use is warfarin.

The Air Guns and Shot Guns, Etc. Bill

Mr. Brian Harrison’s Bill has passed the Committee stage in the House
of Commons and is due for Report and Third Reading on 5th May. It then has
to go to the House of Lords. It provides that children under 14 must not
have air guns in their possession, and those under 15 must not have shot
guns unless under the supervision of a person aged 21 or more. This may do
a little to diminish the wanton wounding of animals by irresponsible infants,
though not by a number of almost equally irresponsible adults. Still, it is
a step in the right direction and will help to conserve mankind, which,
though probably the most abundant vertebrate species in this country,
suffers diminution from time to time at the hands of youthful airgunners.

Biological inventions

For some three centuries it has been the practice to refuse patents for
biological inventions. When, therefore, Messrs. Swift & Co. applied for a
patent for injecting into animals, before slaughter, proteolytic enzymes
which will tenderize the meat by hastening decomposition, the Patent
Ofﬁce refused the application, and the Comptroller’s decision was upheld
on appeal to the Patents Tribunal. On further appeal to the High Court,

4

 

 




 

 

 

however, the decision was over—ruled and an unprecedented legal position
has thus been created. Details of the treatment will be found in the report
of the first appeal [1961] R.P.C. p. 129. Its effect on the animal’s feelings
is not at present known to us, but a result of the decision may be to throw
open the patent system, which has done so much to encourage the develop-
ment of manufactures, to a ﬂood of biological inventions in which animals
will be treated as machines.

The United Nations and kindness to animals

The transport of animals between one country and another, which often
gives rise to hardship, was discussed at a recent conference in Paris organized
by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations.
The subject had been put forward by the World Federation for the Protection
of Animals, whose representative, Miss Margaret Williams, Organizing
Secretary of UFAVV, was appointed rapporteur of the Conference’s relevant
discussion group. At an earlier date the Committee of Ministers of the
Council of Europe, on the recommendation of its Consultative Assembly,
had invited member states to sign and ratify a convention for the inter—
national regulation of the transit of live animals, based on a draft prepared
by the World Federation for the Protection of Animals, and the above—
mentioned FAO Conference sought to reinforce this action, which was also
favoured by the International Ofﬁce of Epizootics and other participating
organizations. At the instance of the World Federation, which is the inter—
national animal-welfare organization ofﬁcially recognized by the United
Nations, the Conference also recommended further investigation into humane
methods of slaughtering poultry.

WHAT RIGHTS HAVE ANIMALS?

A PAPER READ To THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY CIRCLE OF THE NEWMAN SOCIETY
BY MAJOR C. W. HUME, 27TH NOVEMBER, 1961

I must begin by declaring my interest. I am an Anglican, but have
great respect and affection for the Roman Catholic Church.

The dispute about the rights of animals is partly a dispute about the
meaning of words. Many casuists deny that animals can have any rights at
all, and this view has been carried into effect in French law ; in France cruelty
to animals is not punishable unless it is performed in public so that it might
offend the feelings of a kind-hearted human onlooker. In Britain, on the
other hand, animals have legal rights of their own, the infringement of
which entails ﬁnes or imprisonment whether or not any human rights have
been infringed at the same time. The punishment is imposed for the offence
against the animal, not for offending any human being.

The theory that animals have no rights descends from the Roman juris—
prudence of pre—Christian days. In Roman law only a person, persona,
could have legal rights, and in early pagan Rome only a citizen who was
father of a family could be a person; a slave was not a person, nor was a
foreigner, and a paterfamilias had the right to sell or kill his children, who
had no rights against him. In the course of time the privilege of personality
was extended more and more Widely, but this purely legal meaning of the

5

 




 

word “ person ” eventually gave place, in the minds of the casuists, to a
metaphysical meaning which is quite different. They say that every intel-
lectual nature, with one important exception, is a person. Thus the word
“ person” now means something quite different from what it meant when
it connoted simply the possession of legal rights, and there is no logical
connection between rights and this changed meaning of the word “ person
Yet the association between the two words has persisted and has been
defended ex post facto by ﬁne—spun dialectics.

The great Cardinal Newman had little use for verbal gymnastics of this
kind. Although his Catholic soul was near to Heaven, his English feet were
ﬁrmly planted on the ground. In the Grammar of Assent he wrote :— “ I
am suspicious of scientiﬁc demonstrations in a question of concrete fact.”(18)
The starting—point of his own philosophy of religion was conscience, and by
conscience he meant not only consciousness of the moral law but also a
gestalt perception of the Lawgiver implied in that experience.*

Now conscience implies a sense of duty, and duties are correlative with
rights. You can start with rights and deduce duties from them, as the pagan
jurists did, but you can also start with the dictates of conscience and thence
deduce rights, and this surely is the more Christian way. Let us see how the
Christian conscience at its best works when it is brought to bear on man’s
relations with animals. F r Jean Gautier in Um Préz‘re se Pena/m 3217' la Vie
Animale has a chapter entitled “ Does the Church love Animals?” (8) He
is qualiﬁed to know the answer, being a doctor of canon law, an authority
on Catholic spirituality, and Superior of the Provincial House of the Great
Seminary of St. Sulpice in Paris. The conclusion he comes to is this :— “ The
Church does love animals and has not ceased to show it. But there are in the
Church ecclesiastics who do not love them.”

The Church loves animals. For the ﬁrst thousand years and more of
Christian history the lives of the saints are full of legends of neighbourly
relations with them. Some of these stories ring true : the stories of St. Giles
being crippled through defending his tame hind, of St. Columba with his
horse, of the wild ungulates that frequented the cell of St. Theonas, for
instance. There are other cases in which legends seem to have been drawn
from a common stock and attached to individual saints because friendship
with animals was felt to be a natural expression of the humility and charity
which mark a saint. In our own day Fr Aloysius Roche has written :—
“ Man’s attitude to the brutes is elevated or degraded in strict accordance
with the clearness or dimness of his spiritual vision, in strict accordance with
the strength or feebleness of his spiritual capacity,”<22) and Cardinal Newman
Wrote :— ” Cruelty to animals is as if a man did not love God.” (‘30)

 

 

 

 

*Newman anticipated the gestalt psychology when, in illustration of this point, he
wrote :— “ This instinct of the mind recognizing an external Master in the dictate of
conscience, and imaging the thought of Him in the deﬁnite impressions which conscience
creates, is parallel to that other law of not only human but brute nature, bv which the
presence of unseen individual beings is discerned under the shifting shapes “and c010urs
of the visible world. . . . The new—dropped lamb recognizes each of his fellow lambkins
as a whole, consisting of many parts bound up in one, and, before he is an hour old,
makes experience of his and their rival personalities. And much more distinctly do the
horse and dog recognize even the personality of their masters.”(19) V

6

V




The present Pope is a friend of animals, and the late Pope refused the
present of a luxuriously bejewelled bullﬁghter’s cape which the Spanish
bullﬁghting industry had offered him. Bullﬁghting was condemned, with
severe penalties, in the papal bull D6 Salute Gregz's of 1567, and this con-
demnation has been sustained in the Code of Canon Law of 1917.“) But the
subject has been so well discussed by Fr jean Gautier (8) and in Dom
Ambrose Agius’s tract published by the Catholic Truth Society“) that I
need not labour the point beyond citing this fact :— the Holy Ofﬁce has
ofﬁcially pronounced that animals do have some rights as against their
masters or owners ; that it is sinful to torture dumb animals ; and that such
sins are degrading to the soul and disposition of the tormentorlll Admittedly,
as is often pointed out, the New Testament does not contain any such
command as “ Thou shalt be kind to animals.” But what is often overlooked
is that it also does not contain any such command as “ Thou shalt not
tolerate slavery.” The gospel does not work in that way. It works by
generating humility and charity in the minds of men who obey it, and the
natural consequence of such a state of mind is consideration for inferiors.

Thus the Church loves animals. How then are we to account for the
fact that Roman Catholic countries are notorious for indifference to their
feelings, and that in those countries any protest against cruelty is likely to
be met with the retort that “ animals have no souls and so don’t matter ”?
There can be no doubt of the fact, and it is a scandal in the literal sense of
that word: it is a stumbling—block in the path of humane people whose
approach to Christianity is hindered by it. It is a potent weapon in the hands
of the Church’s enemies. But what is the reason for it? I think it is that
parishioners get their View of animals from the parish priest, who gets his
from the casuists, who get theirs from St. Thomas Aquinas, who got his
from the pagan philosopher Aristotle.

Now Aquinas earned the well—deserved honour of being decreed a
Doctor of the Church. That means that a Catholic must treat his opinions
with respect, but it does not mean that those opinions are binding on the
Catholic conscience. According to the Catholic Encyclopaedm :——— “ The
decree is not in any way an ex cathedm decision, nor does it even amount to a
declaration that no error is to be found in the teaching of the Doctor.”(6)
Moreover Aquinas carefully states his reasons, thereby inviting us to apply
to them our own reasoning powers, to which he constantly appeals. It is
not presumptuous, therefore, to scrutinize his views carefully, especially in
those cases in which they are admittedly drawn from a pagan source.

Why does Aquinas so frequently appeal to the authority of the pagan
philosopher Aristotle? One reason seems to be this. Europe had been ﬂooded
with a novel and heretical philosophy based on Aristotle’s writings in
combination with neoplatonism, and derived from Aristotle’s Mohammedan
and Jewish commentators such as Averroés and Avicenna and Avicebron.
It swept the schools and gravely imperilled the Christian religion. It was
by the mighty intellect of Aquinas that the ﬂood was stemmed, and because
he had to argue with people who staked their faith on Aristotle he had to
quote Aristotle against them. Moreover he was appealing to reason, and in
those days reason and Aristotle meant much the same thing.

 




 

Now Aquinas took so little interest in animals that, so far as I can ﬁnd,
apart from a few brief and ambiguous sentences, he discussed their status
only thrice in the whole of the Summer Theologicam and twice, covering the
same ground, in the Summer contra Gentiles“) In two of these passages
Aquinas admits that animals have souls but agrees with Aristotle that they
have neither intelligence nor reason— ” non (mim intellz'gunt neque ratio—
cmantw ” —— and accepts his inference that they are incapable of immortality;
for Aristotle had said that the mind (nous) with its intelligence (theoretikes
dunamis) seems to be a species of soul, distinct from the vegetative and
sensory souls postulated by him, and that it “ alone admits of being
separated ” from the body “ as the immortal from the perishable.”(5) His
Arabian commentators expanded this notion and Averroés inferred that the
intellect is the only part of a man which is capable of immortality. (4) Aquinas
rebutted the inference as to man while adopting the inference as to animals,
but he really cannot have it both ways.

However, this subject need not detain us, partly because Aquinas’s
animal psychology is untenable in the light of modern knowledge,(1°) and still
more because if it is true that there is no future life for animals that fact
will strengthen the moral obligation to consider their welfare in the only
life they are to have.

In the other three passages Aquinas denies that animals can have any
intrinsic claims upon man’s compassion, and he tries to explain away any
scriptural injunctions to the contrary. Again quoting Aristotle he bases
this opinion on the ground that animals are “ irrational.” It is interesting
to note that although the Koran enjoins kindness to animals the Arabs
treat them as things, whereas the Turks, who do not inherit an Aristotelian
tradition, have indigenous animal—welfare societies.

But Aquinas was not interested in animals, and his treatment of the
subject was so superﬁcial that he failed even to make the fundamental
distinction between killing and hurting. Neither he nor Aristotle had any
understanding of an animal’s mind, which they supposed to be purely sensory.
Neither of them could know that in the present century electro-encephalo—
grams of animals would turn out to be closely analogous to those of human
beings, or that several thousand scientiﬁc papers would be devoted to the
psychology of the rat alone, or that the study of learning in rats would throw
a great deal of light on learning in human beings.(17)

Now this negative teaching, which bottoms upon the pagan philosophy
of Aristotle, has been adopted whole-heartedly by some at least of the
casuists, that is, the thinkers whose responsibility it is to apply moral
principles to particular cases. Three factors seem to have favoured this
result. One is the gloriﬁcation of the intellect, and particularly of the ability
to do geometry, which came into Western thought from the pagan Greek
philosophers. Animals cannot do geometry, and though their intelligence is
much more extensive than was formerly realized it is much inferior to normal
human intelligence. But this gloriﬁcation of the intellect is pagan, not
Christian. Our Lord pronounced beatitudes (13) on the meek, on those who
hunger and thirst after justice, on the merciful, on the peacemakers, but
not on the contemptuously intellectual. He even said “ I bless thee, O

8

 

A V _.__(- —4

 




 

 

Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou has hidden these things from
the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them to little ones.”(14>

Secondly, two centuries after Aquinas this gloriﬁcation of the human
intellect was reinforced by the humanism of the Renaissance, which tended
to ﬂatter man and almost put him in the place of God. And ﬁnally in our
own days a prejudice against animal welfare has been created by the senti-
mentality of all too many animal-lovers who, indeed, are more often
sentimental than humane. But all good causes have their fanatics, including
Christianity itself, and you would not abandon the Christian religion because
there have been Donatists and Jansenists and Anabaptists. The behaviour
of animal—loving cranks is a cause of but not a justiﬁcation for a contemp—
tuous attitude towards animals themselves. It affords no excuse for
complacent interspeciﬁc snobbery.

A particularly strong example of this contemptuousness is afforded by
the late Fr .l oseph Rickaby. He did indeed disapprove of cruelty practised
for its own sake, but only for the self—centred reason that it is bad for one’s
own soul. As to cruelty which is incidental to some other purpose he wrote
that “ Brute beasts, not having understanding and therefore not being
persons, cannot have any rights . . . They are of the number of things, which
are another’s ; they are chattels, or cattle. We have no duties to them.”
And again —— “ Charity is the extension of love of ourselves to beings like
ourselves, in view of our common nature. . . . Our nature is not common to
brute beasts but immeasurably above theirs. . . . We have then no duties of
charity, nor duties of any kind, to the lower animals, as neither to stocks nor
stones.” (22)

You will see that this position is based on two assumptions. First, the
assumption that charity is a form of selﬁshness : “ charity,” he says, is the
extension of love of ourselves to beings like ourselves, in View of our common
nature.” Contrast this principle with our Lord’s command :~— “ If any man
will come after me let him deny himself.” (15) Indeed, it would not be difﬁcult
to show that selﬁshness, far from being the basis of charity or any other
Virtue, is at the bottom of every one of the mortal sins.

Fr Rickaby’s second assumption is this, that because our nature is
considered to be “ immeasurably above ” that of the animals, this superiority
entitles us to deny them any rights, and to disclaim any moral obligation
towards them. This, surely, is the mortal sin of pride in all its evil ugliness.
If superiority entitles me to disclaim duties, I am at liberty to cheat or
insult or maltreat anybody whose education or intellect 1s inferior to my
own. If the lack of understanding is a bar to the possession of rights, then
a new-born baby is devoid of rights, and anybody who pleases is free to
maltreat it or kill it. This is the logical consequence of substituting intel—
lectual pride for the Christian Virtue of humility.

Much has been made of the statement in the book of Genesis that man
is to have dominion over the animals, and dominion has been taken to
justify irresponsible tyranny. But Jesus Christ revolutionized the concept
of dominion, making it imply responsibllity instead of tyranny. “You
know,” he said, “ that the princes of the Gentiles lord it over them, and they
that are the greater exercise power upon them. It shall not be so among you ;
but whosever will be the greater among you, let him be your minister.”(16)

9

 




 

Much has been made, likewise, of the statement that man is made in the
image of God. But man cannot create matter or souls, his existence and
immortality are not independent of any other agent, nor is he omniscient or
omnipresent or particularly holy. His best hope of justifying a claim to be
like God is to imitate as closely as possible the incarnate Son of God.

Now if Christianity means anything it surely means this, that one who
was highest in the scale of being humbled himself for the advantage of those
whom he was “ immeasurably above”; (17/1,er proffer nos homims cl proffer
nostmm salutan descendz’t de melts. Christians are exhorted to follow this
examplem) which must, therefore, mutatis mutandis govern their behaviour
towards creatures which are inferior to them. This is obvious, but it raises
difﬁcult questions of casuistry. What are the mulmzcia, and how re we to
balance the conﬂicting claims of man and beast? I shall return to that subject
in a moment, but first let us notice that pride is not the only mortal sin that
affects the issue. The main cause of cruelty today is the mortal sin of avarice.
Much capital is invested in it. The most striking instances are the fur—
trapping industry and the whaling industry, in both of which great wealth
is won by perpetrating extreme cruelty on a vast scale, but many other
examples could be given. I well remember the violent opposition which the
Meat Traders’ Federation offered to the introduction of humane slaughter
thirty and more years ago, because of the loss of profit which they expected
it to entail, and only recently the same battle has had to be fought in the
United States. But it would be easy to give many other instances of cruelty
arising from avarice.

I now come back to this difﬁcult question: Christians, in their behaviour
towards creatures which are inferior to man, are bound to imitate, mufaz‘z's
mummlis, the example set by their Master by his condescension towards
beings who were so much inferior to him. But what are the muz‘anda, and
how are we to balance the conﬂicting claims of man and beast?

The early church was faced with a similar problem in respect of slavery.
It would have been impracticable to abolish slavery overnight, though
St. Paul in his Epistle to Philemon started a train of thought which eventu—
ally led to the modern reprobation of it. As to the treatment of animals
casuistry is still in a backward. state owing partly to the subject having been
so much neglected by theologians and partly to the wide range of technical
knowledge which it calls for. It presents such a large and difficult problem
that here I can only discuss, by way of example, how it has been worked out
in one particular ﬁeld which I happen to be familiar with, namely the use
of animals in the laboratory.

Two extreme views have been held. On one side the antivivisectionists,
of whom Cardinal Manning was one, condemn all experiments on animals.
At the other extreme F r Rickaby wrote that “there is no shadow of evil
resting on the practice of causing pain ” provided that this is not done for
the sake of causing pain but as an incidental concomitant of something else,
and he instances the pursuit of science. He adds nor are we bound to any
anxious care to make this pain as little as may be. Brutes are ﬂzil’lgs in our
regard: so far as they are useful to us, they exist for us, and not for them—
selves; we do right in using them unsparingly for our need and convenience,
though not for wantonness.”(22l I am glad to say that these truly horrifying

10

 




 

views are not shared by British scientists who use animals, though un-
fortunately they are acted upon by many in Latin and Asiatic countries,
and in some laboratories in the United States and Eastern Canada.

ﬁetween these two extremes the truth must lie, but it is an unfortunate
fact that Britain is the only nation to have made a systematic attempt to
work out the problem, which is one of the most difﬁcult that the discipline
of casuistry has to solve. .

A number of human beings have volunteered to be laboratory animals
on occasion. For instance, Mellanby’s work on scabies was carried out on a
sample of conscientious objectors who volunteered for this service in war-
time. Such clinical research on human beings raises ethical questions which
have. been discussed in a recent symposium by Dr. T. F. F ox, Editor of the
Lancet, (7) and some of his conclusions are applicable to experiments on
animals, as I have shown elsewhereﬁZ) But animals cannot volunteer, and
so somebody else must take the decision for them, thereby incurring a grave
moral responsibility.

In Britain two ROyal Commissions on Vivi-section have laid down
general principles, and the Home Ofﬁce, with its Inspectors and Advisory
Committee, has the duty of interpreting those principles, including what is
called the “ Pain Rule”; this sets a limit to the amount of suffering that
may be imposed and is attached to every Home Ofﬁce certiﬁcate. One may
not always agree with the decisions of the Home Ofﬁce ~— I personally do
not always do so —- but they are taken with the greatest care and sincerity.
Moreover we know from various sources, including a questionnaire issued
by UFA\V to all the biological Fellows of the Royal Society, (11) that this
control by the Home Ofﬁce of experiments on animals has the almost
unanimous support of British scientists, among whom a humane tradition

has been built up.

Finally, as an illustration of the sort of conclusion that an amateur
casuist may come to, I venture to repeat an opinion which I have published
elsewhereﬂm In the ﬁrst place I distinguish between killing and hurting.
There is no harm in killing an animal, provided you do it painlessly, whereas
in clinical research on human beings you are bound to avoid any procedure
which entails a risk of death. Again, in the case of animals permanent
disablement, as by hypophysectomy, can. be dealt With by killing the
animal painlessly at the end of the experiment, but this cannot be done
with a human subject. With these reservations _I suggest. the_folloWing
rule :—The experimenter or inspector must put himself in imagination in
the place of the animal. He must leave out of_acco.unt. any risk of death .or
permanent disablement (which alone can justify him in. choosrng a Victim
other than himself) and focus his attention on the indiVIdual experience of
pain or other stress involved; and he must 'now ask himself .“ Should I
myself be willing to endure that degree of pain or other stress in order to
attain the object in view?” If not, hisdeCiSion must be negative, and .no
experimenter has a right to make an animal suffer what he would not Wish
to suffer himself, but for any permanent disablement or risk of death that
might be involved, in order to prov1de the knowledge sought.

I b d ' finds m rule unacceptable I hope he will try to devise a
betterf (iii: buf if this i: to be compatible With Christian ethics it must

11'

 




satisfy two conditions. First it must conform to humility, as opposed to the
contemptuous arrogance which repudiates moral obligations towards in—
feriors. Secondly it must conform to charity as opposed to selfishness, whether
simple selﬁshness or that extension of it which would begrudge beneﬁcence
to species other than our own.

In designing an experimental test a scientist tries to simplify the
conditions as much as possible by eliminating irrelevant factors that might
affect the phenomena to be observed. For testing the sincerity of a Christian’s
profession animals offer just such a simplified situation. Being devoid of
wealth, of prestige, in many species of popularity, and of various other
accidents which may furnish non-altruistic motives for being beneﬁcent to
human beings, they afford material for a critical test of a Christian’s humility
and charity. ‘

REFERENCES

Agius, Dom Ambrose: ” Cruelty to -v\.nimals,” p. 14 (Catholic Truth Society, 1958).
Aquinas, St. Thomas: Smnma Theologiea prima 76(3), secunda secundae 25(3)
and 102(6, reply to objection 8).
—— Saninza eonlra Gentiles, ll 82 and 111. 112.
—— ibid., II 58—61.
Aristotle: De .‘lnima, ll 2.
Catholic Encyclopaedia, art. “ Doctors of the Church.”
Fox, Dr. T. 19.: “ The Ethics of Clinical Trials ” in Quantitative -1lez‘hods in Human
Pharmacology and Therapeutics (Pergamon Press, 1959).
Gautier, Jean : (In Prélre se Penehe sur la Vie .-lmimale, p. 107 (Flammarion, 1959).
Hume, C. \V.: How to Befriend ]-a,l:(,)ralor_i' -‘lnimals, p. 13 (UFAW', 1958).
~———— The Slams ofi'lnimals in the Chrislian Religion, Chap. 6 (UFAVV, 1957.)
—— Opinions of British Seiem‘isz‘s on Home ()ﬁiee Con/rel ofExperiments on :1 m'mals
(UFAVY, 1961).
—— ” Avoidance of Pain in the laboratory,” in The .‘lssessmenzf of Pain in Man
and -rlizimals (UFAVV, in the press).
Matthew, St; Gospel, v, 5-9 (Douai version).
— il)i(l., xi, 25.
—— ibid., XX, 25.
il)id., xvi, 24.
Munn, Norman L.: Handbook of Psychologieal Research on the Rat (Houghton
Mifﬂin Co., 1950). ‘
Newman, Cardinal J. H.: The Grammar of A ssem‘, p. 405 (Burns, Oates & Co., 1870).
——— ibid, p. 107.
——* Quoted by Dom Ambrose AgiusU).
Paul, St.: Epistle to the Philippians, ii, 5—8.
Rickaby, 151' Joseph : M oral Philosophy, pp. 248-257 (Longmans Green & Co., 1892).
Roche, Fr Aloysius : These -‘lnimals of Ours p. viii (Burns, Oates and \Vashbourne,
1939)

 

Published by

(.2wa

(The Universities Federation for Animal W’elfare)
7A LAMB’s CONDUIT PASSAGE
LONDON, W.C.1

 

 

Courier Co. Ltd, Tunbridge VN clls

 




CARE OF WILD ANIMALS

There are a few important things to consider
before you succumb to the desire to take a wild
animal home with you or away from the spot where
you discovered it.

First—it is usually against the Fish and Game
Laws of your state to take wildlife from its natural
habitat. Even if you know that the animal you find is
an orphan, from the certain knowledge that the
mother animal is dead, wildlife does not legally be—
long to you, nor are you legally responsible for its
care or survival. This job is assigned to the local
game warden. Your duty is to notify the authorities
of your information. He will take over from there.

Second~—“lost” animals are a popular myth.
Wild animals are rarely “lost” in their natural
environment. Actually, nine out of ten times when
humans encounter wildlife “babies” the animals are
already home. You, the human, are the intruder.
The mother is doubtless aware of the exact spot
where she left her young. So, if you “find” a wild
animal, it is best to leave it alone, and YOU go
away. Uninjured wild animals can best fend for
themselves.

Third—~consider your safety. All wild animals
are liable to bite you on the slightest provocation.
Even if you succeed in “taming” wildlife young-
sters, they don’t remain playful forever. Wild
animals do not brush their teeth, and a wound re-
sulting from a bite can often resist healing. There
is, of course, the additional chance of contracting
rabies from a wild animal’s bite. In addition to the
danger of being bitten, the hoofs and antlers of a
deer can be equally dangerous. These animals can
strike out at you and inflict great damage. Of
course, no one can doubt what a mother bear will
or can do when something is bothering her “babies” .
If the animal is young, its mother may be nearby.
The young animal may squeal whenpicked up, which
could cause the mother to attack a person.

If you come upon an INJURED animal, the best
thing to do is to immediately notify the agency re—
sponsible for the care of wildlife. In most com—
munities contact the game warden. He will actupon
the situation. DO NOT MOVE OR HANDLE THE
ANIMAL UNLESS A B SO LU T E LY NECESSARY!
There are good reasons for this:

(1) The average person is not trained in the

handling of injured animals.

You may increase the injury by moving the
animal.

The risk of injury to you is great as the
animal will probably try to defend itself.
There is the possibility that the animal may
be diseased. (Rabid animals are often par—
tially immobilized or unusually friendly.) A
veterinarian can best. care for an injured
animal.

Fourth—humaneness. True humaneness dic—
tates leaving wildlife young alone under normal
circumstances.

Occasionally, unusual wild pets are cherished
by their owners, but all too often many are neg—
lected once the novelty wears off. If they manage
to survive at all, the animal merely ekes out a
miserable existence. Taken from its wilderness
home and raised in captivity, a “wildlife baby”
grows to depend on humans for its very existence.
Adopting a wild pet no matter how well intended——
frequently results in tragedy or distress eitherfor
the animal or for the human being. The animal may
become dangerous when it grows up. This would
be especially true of animals such as deer or coy—
otes in breeding season. Wild animals are not
generally happy in captivity. Confinement goes
against their natural instincts. \Vildcreatures often
die despite the best care of their “rescuers.”

Fifth—Do you really have time? Most people
quickly lose their enthusiasm when they find that
caring for an animal involves tedious, time—com
suming work. Many young birds require feeding
every fifteen minutes as they can eat only a little
at any one time. Baby wild animals require feeding
every two to four hours around the clock. You, as
a foster parent, must provide the care. the animal
would receive from its real parent. In short, you
must prepare to devote yourself to the tedious task
of caring for the animal as you will have time for
little else.

“But I Already Have The Animal At Home.”

GENERAL INFORMATION

First, you should at, once consider what the

animal needs in the way of food, warmth, and pro—
tection. It is important to determine as accurately
as possible what kind of bird or animal you have so
you can provide the care and feed it needs to sur-
vive. Probably your best local source of informa-
tion is your Fish and Game Department. They can
offer you accurate information regarding proper
care and feeding, in addition to your state’s wildlife
regulations. Every group of animals requires care
peculiar to its kind. Before you take an animal or
bird into your possession, you should make certain
that you know how to properly care for it, or have
an accurate source of advice on how to render
proper care. For instance, no wild bird ever re-
ceives milk in its normal life, and there is doubt
as to whether the bird’s digestive system is adapt—
ed to handle milk to advantage. But a great many
people immediately think of feeding birds milk and
bread.

FOODS

Foods you provide for the animals should be as
similar as possible to the types the animal would
eat if it were in the wild. Sincethe kinds and avail—
ability will vary with the seasons, itis advisable to
provide a wide variety so the animal may make its
own selection. There is less danger that the animal
will take food which is not good for it if the animal
has a wide choice available.Obviously, since nature
does not provide cooked food, neither should you.

PREPARATION BEFORE RELEASE

No matter how attached you may become to the
animals you have succeeded in raising, you must
remember you have been their protectors NOT
their captors. Animals and birds that have been
restrained as babies and raised in captivity are
poorly prepared to make their own way ifliberated
without a preliminary training period. The animal
should gradually be allowed to become accustomed
to providing for itself. This will give the animal a
better change to survive on its own.

WILD ANIMALS

As stated earlier, further information regarding

the care of wildlife may be obtained from your local
Fish and Game Department. They will also advise
you regarding the laws regulating the keeping of
wildlife.

TEMPORARY HOUSING

The nursing mammal should be provided with
housing that simulates the warmth of the parent. It
may be kept warm by being placed in a box with
plenty of clean, soft, dry material such as cloth or
soft cleansing tissue. Ifthe animal is cold, artificial
heat may be applied. Care should be taken so that
there is no danger of starting afire or that too much
heat is generated.

FEEDING

There is no universal Substitute for the mother’s
milk that can be suggested. A fewformulas recom—
mended by experts in the wildlife field are listed to
guide you.

1 oz. commercial dried milk, 6 oz. water and 1

oz. evaporated milk OR

2 oz. homogenized milk diluted with 1 oz. water

OR

1 oz. evaporated milk diluted with 1 oz. water
Keep the formula refrigerated. It should be shaken
and warmed before being fed to the animals. The
substitute milk must be heated to body temperature.
Even five or six degrees of variation in either dir—
ection will inhibit feeding. You will probably find
that a child’s doll nursing bottle will be most satis-
factory in feeding the animals. Be sure not to make
the hole in the nipple too large. Medicine droppers
also may be used but caution should be used to give
milk slowly so that the animals do not strangle.
Nursing mammals often require feeding every 2—4
hours around the clock.

The length of time that the animals should be fed
milk exclusively, varies greatly between species.
If you do not know the period of time it should be
given milk, try making available to the animal
various solid foods in addition to the milk. When
the animal is mature enough, it will begin to sam—
ple the other food made available. At this time it
will reduce milk intake of its own accord. Milk

 




should be made available to the animal as long as
it requires it.

Creatures such as opossums, skunks, and rac—
coons are usually considered to be omnivorous,
that is to say, they will eat most anything—meat,
vegetables, fish, fruit, etc. It is well to provide
assorted quantities of each so the animal may
choose what it desires. This willhelp insure against
dietary deficiencies.

Members of the rodent family will eat green,
leafy vegetables, dry rolled oats, nuts, fruit,
carrots, etc.

CONSTIPATION

Constipation is difficult evacuation of feces.
Improper diet may be the cause. A baby animal can
die or at least become seriously ill if relief is not
given. The mother of the animal usually solves this
problem by licking the baby animal’s stomach.
You can simulate the mother’s treatment by gently
massaging the animal’s stomach. If constipation
continues, contact your veterinarian.

WATER

Clean, cool, fresh water should be made avail—
able at all times. It is often preferable to use a
shallow dish for your animals. A shallow dish will
allow the animal ease of drinking and yet’ will not
allow the animal to drown.

SURVIVAL TRAINING

When the animal is mature enough to eat natural
food for itself, start gradually teaching it to ac—
custom itself to natural life inthe wild. The training
will enable the animal to establish itself in the
surrounding area with a good chance of survival.
The training should continue only until the animal
is able to compete with the other wild animals for
both food and shelter.

WILD BIRDS
TEMPORARY HOUSING

If the nest has been destroyed, put the helpless

young birds in a box with asubstitute nest. The nest
can be fashioned from grass and lined With a soft
cloth or tissues so that the birds feet have some-v
thing pliable to push against. Keep them warm by
covering the box with a cloth as protection from
drafts. If the fledglings are old enough to perch,
put them in a large cage or, better still, give them
the freedom ofaroom in which they can learn to fly.

FEEDING

A bird’s food and its beak go together;that IS. to
say, the food a bird eats is determined by the kind
of bill it has. (e.g. The sparrow with the hard, stout,
conical beak is well adapted to adiet of hard—coated
seeds; a hawk, with a sharp hooked beak, to the

ring and shredding of flesh).
tealFezd fledglings only during the daylight hours:
but feedings should be frequent, at .least every
fifteen to thirty minutes. Regular feeding, With not
too much offered at one time, achieves the best
results. Young birds require all the attention they
can get, but little handling is advisable.

HAWKS, EAGLES, OWLS

Raptorial birds require meat with fur or featherfs
on it to aid digestion. Feed them on raw bee .
sprinkled with cod liver oil with which chicken or
other type of feathers may be mixed.

ROBINS, SPARROWS, CARDINALS

The basic feed for very young songbird nestlings,
other than humming birds, is equal parts of finely
mashed yolk of hard—boiled eggs and finely Sifted
bread crumbs slightly moistened with water or cod
liver oil. Most seed eaters also need fine gravel
and charcoal, crushed seeds, chopped greens, and

fruits.
WOODPECKERS

Young woodpeckers eat a mixture of dog food
and the basic food of mashed egg yolk, bread
crumbs, and water.

HUMMING BIRDS

For baby humming birds, supply a syrup Of
sugar and water, in equal parts, fed drop by drop
with a medicine dropper; ‘After' about ten days,
feed the hummers their first protein; dried dog
food, very finely sifted and freely mixed with the
syrup.

At first, older fledglings may not eat. Force
feed by enclosing its body and closed wings in the
left hand. With your forefinger and thumb, gently
pry 010811 the bill at its base, and with your right
hand hold an improvised narrow wooden spoon con-
taining bits of food. A small paint brush may be
Substituted for the wooden spoon to pick up bits of
food. Poke the food down the bird’s throat being
Careful not to feed too much at a time or the bird
will choke. In a short time, the youngsters will
learn to open their bills for food. Continue the
feeding until the bird’s crop is full. Repeat through-
out the day. The bird’s crop should be especially
full at nightfall just before the bird goes to sleep-

WATER

Small birds often are quicklykilled by forcibly
giving them water. Before they learn to drink, they
receive sufficient water for their needs from their
food. When they are old enough to sit on a perch,
water may be offered in a shallow dish. You may
carefully dip their bills into a water dish until they
learn to drink by themselves.

SURVIVAL TRAINING

As soon as the bird is strong enough to fly from
the floor to the top of a chair, it should be encour—
aged to forage for itself. It should be turned loose
as soo n as it is able to fly and feed itself. If pos—
sible, it should be hand fed in the garden for a few
days, and food made available to it at all times. If
the young bird is not encouraged to return to a free
wild life, it will learn to depend upon human as—
sistance which may bring disaster when suddenly
released.

 

The American Humane As;n.—Denver

 




CARE OF FISH

Fish, turtles, lizards, chameleons, alligators
toads, and frogs are “cold-blooded” animals. In
many ways all of these animals are similar but in
many ways they are different. Each species needs
special conditions and foods if it is to be a satis—
factory pet.

As nearly as possible, the owner should create
conditions as those in which his pets would live if
not in captivity. The fact that these animals cannot
display pain or suffering as demonstratively as can
a dog or cat should make the owner all the more
careful to keep his pets in good health.

We hope this pamphlet will be of assistance
and will enable you to enjoy the full measure of
pleasure your pet is capable of giving. Be prepared
to repay this love and affection with consideration
and care, today and forever after; otherwise do not
undertake the responsibilities that go along with
owning a pet.

AQUARIUMS

All fish and water animals depend upon oxygen
for life. The amount of oxygen in an aquarium de-
pends chiefly upon the amount of water surface
that is exposed to the air. Thus, arectangular, re-
latively shallow tank is best for the fish. A “globe”
ist ulndesirable. For tropical fish it is likely to be

a a .

If it is possible, use a tank with at least 15
gallons capacity, no higher than it is wide.A single
pair of guppies or goldfish, of course, can be kept
in a much smaller tank. But the bigger tank will be
easier to keep sanitary, temperatures in it will be
steadier, and conditions in general will be better.
It is more likely to be attractive to look at, too.

Ordinary tap water can be used in an aquarium
unless it is unusually alkaline. If the water is chlor—
inated (many city supplies are), the chlorine should
be removed by pouring the water back and forth,
at least 10 times, from one container to another.

Then let the water sit for a day, or at least until
it has come to room temperature. All aquarium
water is the better for “aging” in open air.

Plants are both ornamental and useful in an a-
quarium. The plants absorb carbon dioxide, a gas
that is produced in the water by the fish. At the same
time, IN THE PRESENCE OF LIGHT, the plants give
off oxygen. Ifyou get the right number of fish and the
right quantity of plants, you have a “balanced”
aquarium.

Such an aquarium needs periodic cleaning, but
the water needs changing rarely, ifever.Abalanced
aquarium is much better for fish than one in which
water must constantly be changed because oxygen is
depleted.

The best planting medium for plants is about two
inches of coarse sand. The plants get their food from
the water; the sand is only to anchor the roots.
Plants should be well-established in the tank, and
growing, before fish are added.

Temperature is extremely important in the man—
agement of fish. The importance cannot be over-
emphasized.

For goldfish, a temperature of about65 degrees
is best. At higher temperatures there will be less
oxygen in the water--and gold fish need lots of
oxygen. At lower temperatures the fish will be slug-
gish and more susceptible to disease.

Temperature rules for tropical fish are more
complicated. Aquarium dealers offer about 400 va-
rieties of tropical fish to American fanciers. Their
temperature needs are not identical, especially if
you wish to have the fish breed. In general, however,
a temperature of about 7 8—80 degrees willbe satis—
factory for a “community” tank——meaning, atank in
which several species of fish are kept.

It is very important to maintainaSTEADY tem-
perature. Quick changes can kill fish, even though
the new temperature may be one that the fish could
endure if the change were made slowly. Never pour
a large quantity of cold tap water into warmer water
in a tank. Never switch fish from one tank to another
until water in the two tanks is nearly identical in
temperature .

FEEDING FISH

Here is a point at which you can kill your pets
with “kindness”. Fish food is so cheap, and fish
eat so little, that most beginners tend to overfeed.
The surplus food that the fish eat is harmful to
them, and the food that drops to the bottom contam—
inates the water.

Almost all common aquarium fish will live, and
even thrive, on commercial dried foods, available
in small cans in pet stores. The granulated types
usually are more desirable than “wafer” kinds, and
for tropicals the granulated kinds are essential.
Most of these foods are mixtures of meat, cereals,
eggs, and fish. The food comes in several different
sizes of granulation; get the size suited to the size
of your fish.

Experts agree, also, that all tropicals will fare
better, if at least occasionally given a meal of
daphnia, tubifex worms, or other minute worms.
Aquarium supply dealers sell them in small con—
tainers. Variety also can be furthered with very
small shreds of raw liver, leanbeef, shrimp, clam,
oyster, and fish.

FISH DISEASES

It is far easier to keep disease out of an aquar-
ium than to cure it, besides being kinder to the fish.
Few people can dependably diagnose fish ailments;
treatment for fish illnesses is correspondingly hit-
or—miss.

It is usually kinder to give a seriously sick fish
a quick escape from misery with a sharp blow than
to subject it to a long siege of experiments with
various drugs and changing temperatures.

Since one always wishes to do everything pos-
sible to save a pet, however, here are a few hints.

ICHTHYOPHTIRIUS, usually just called “Ick”,
is symptomized by tiny white spots on the bodies
of fish. The spots are caused by parasites that bur-
row under the skin. Place the afflicted fish in a
shallow tank or pan (not a tank where plants are
growing), in water taken from the tank in which the

fish has been living. Into this water mix about a tea—
spoonful of salt (preferably rock salt) to the gallon
of water. Then slowly raise the temperature of the
salted water to about 85-90 degrees. In about three
days lower the temperature to normal (slowly).

If the “Ick” is cured, return the fish to its home
tank. If not, consider euthanasia.

Several funguses attack fish. They usually are
evidenced by a white scum or film on the body, fre-
quently most noticeable around and over the eyes.
Use the salt treatment for any fungus.

If fish stay continually at the surface of the wa-
ter and seem to be “gulping air,” the tank almost
certainly is overcrowded. The cure is fewer fish or
a tank with more surface area for water.

TERRARIUMS

Most cold—blooded animals, aside from fish and
water snails, should be kept in terrariums instead of
aquariums. You can use the same kind of tank as for
an aquarium but the bottom of the tank should be
covered several inches deep with loamy earth on top
of a layer of coarse sand and pebbles. Water, for
animals that need an occasional swim, should be
placed in a pan within the terrarium. If plants are
used, they should be in removable trays or pots, to
facilitate terrarium cleaning. The pots maybe sunk
to their rims for natural appearance.

Provide a sizeable flat stone as dinner table
and resting place for the animal occupants and leave
ample space clear of plants.

Animals kept in a terrarium need at least two
or three hours of sunlight every day, but they also
need to be able to escape the sun at any time.

A fine wire screen cover must be provided to
keep the terrarium inmates where you want them.

LIZARDS
True humanitarians will boycott the men who

sell chameleons and baby turtles at carnivals and
fairs but occasionally there is opportunity to keep

 




such animals as pets.

Chameleons and other lizards will live well ina
terrarium.

They need water only for drinking-—not swim-
ming-—but the terrarium should be kept at high hu—
midity.

To keep lizards healthy, you must provide live
food. They will eat flies, grasshoppers, meal
worms, and larvae of many insects. Feed once dai—
ly. If you run out of flies, try hamburger. But you
must make the lizard think the hamburger is alive.
Margery Bianco tells of inducing toads and lizards
to eat hamburger by affixing a tiny ball of the meat
to the end of a broom straw and gently waving the
lure in front of the animal. Sometimes alizard will
starve itself for a week before succumbing, she
says, but eventually it snaps at the meat and the
battle is won.

Toads, frogs and salamanders need a dish of
water large enough for swimming and soaking.
Frogs are better kept in an outdoor pool than in a
terrarium.

Food is the same as for lizards.

Temperature should be from 50 to 75 degrees.

Toads will dig themselves into the earth on cool,
cloudy days, but emerge when the sun shines and the
tank warms. They become quite tame if gently han-
dled.

ALLIGATORS

As was said above, a humanitarian will not buy
the little “souvenir” turtles sold at honky—tonk re—
sorts and carnivals--and especailly baby turtles
with painted shells. The paint inevitably kills the
turtle unless very gently removed.

Little green turtles commonly soldby aquarium
dealers are tropical or semi—tropical animals and
are difficult to keep healthy. They need terraium
environments but with swimming water at 80-85
degrees. SOME OF THEM CAN SWALLOW FOOD
ONLY UNDER WATER, some eat out of water. Try
both ways. '

Best food is shredded beef, chopped clams,
chopped raw fish. This need be given only twice a
week. Add a drop of concentrated codliver oil to the
food. Occasionally give a small quantity of lettuce,
Spinach, etc.

It is never a kindness to take a baby alligator
from its natural environment. It is almost surely
doomed to an early death--certain1y the ordinary
pet fancier has no means of caring for a full-grown
alligator even if he could rear one from infancy.

A baby alligator needs swimming water at 80-
90 degrees.

Feed the diet recommended above, using the
broom-straw technique if the baby finds it hard to
change from his natural foods to what you can offer
him.

Alligators and turtle s MUST have ample sun-
light.

Adult aquatic turtles can stand temperatures
down to 68 degrees, but not lower. Food is the same
as for baby turtles, with a larger offering of green
vegetables, quartered apples, and perhaps other
fruit.

LAND TURTLES, TORTOISES

Any native land turtle is best kept outdoors
but CAN be kept in a terrarium. The most humane
practice is to keep a native turtle long enough for
friendly acquaintance, then restore it to its native
habitat. It is cruel to keep a large turtle cooped
up for long in a small indoor tank.

Land turtles will survive the year around at
prevailing outdoor temperatures in the ground if
their pen is spaded about two feet deep so that they
can “dig in.” In winter, under these conditions,
they will hibernate.

As food, offer chopped meat and fish in small
quantities twice a week, with a drop or two of cod—
liver oil added, and provide tender greenstuffs.
Turtles especially like lettuce and dandelions; they
seem not to like cabbage. When hibernating, they eat
nothing.

YOUR HUMANE ORGANIZATION

There are more than 750 agencies in the United
States and Canada which are concerned with the pre-
vention of cruelty to animals. In your community, the
organization may be known as an SPCA (Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals), as the Humane
Society, the Animal Rescue League, or by some such
similar name. Most of these organizations are affili-
ated with The American Humane Association (AHA)
and are doing everything possible to protect domestic
pets, livestock, working animals and wildlife from
cruelty and suffering. It is worthwhile for you to know
about your local humane organization and the services
it offers. If you have any problems with animals, these
are the agencies which can give you helpful advice and
guidance.

Most humane organizations provide temporary
shelter for animals. Pets are available for adoption
into good homes from these shelters. These agencies,
along with hundreds of PET PATROL® radio stations,
help to reunite lost pets with their owners.

Experts from humane agencies inspect and offer
helpful advice to Stockyards, packinghouses and similar
installations. They supervise all forms of animal
exploitation to correct possible abuses. They advise
lawmakers on legislation which affects animals and
their owners at the municipal, county, state and federal
levels. Their educational programs teach kindness
and compassion to millions of youngsters throughout
the world.

Learn the name and address of your nearest humane
agency, and get acquainted with it. If you do not find
a humane organization in your immediate area, ask
The American Humane Association, P. O. Box 1266,
Denver, Colorado 80201 for the name and address of
the society nearest you. Then, when you need advice
and help with any animal problems, you will know
where to turn for expert and friendly help.

Your local humane organization needs your support!
A letter or phone call will bring information about the
program, and how it is financed.

 

 

 

The American Humane Association. Denver. Colo.

 




CARE OF SMALL ANIMALS

Many of the smaller species of mammals make
interesting and educational pets. Usually they re—
quire only a minimum of food and shelter. Caring
for them is a relatively simple matter based on
common sense rules.

We hope this pamphlet will be of assistance
and will enable you to enjoy the full measure of
pleasure your pet is capable of giving. Be prepared
to repay this love and affection with consideration
and care, today and forever after; otherwise do
not undertake the responsibilities that go along with
owning a pet.

MICE AND RATS

Mice and rats are among the most satisfactory
of all of the small mammals as pets. The domes-
~ ticated strains, whether white or colored, have been
bred through thousands of generations to tameness.
They show genuine liking for gentle owners. They
are clean, require small space and simple housing,
and are easy to feed.

Given opportunity, both mice and rats will breed
at an astonishing rate. Young mice are ready to
breed at 7 weeks. The gestation period is only 20
days. A female mouse canhave 15 or more litters a
year, with up to adozen babies to a litter. Theoreti-
cally, a single pair of mice could produce around
100,000 descendants in a single year!

Breeding one litter can be educational and enter-
taining, especially for children, but humane consid—
erations callfor aplannedlimit to the process. Hea-
vy breeding prevents the owner, especially achild,
from seeing the animals as sensitive, feeling indi-
viduals. Many ventures in the keeping of mice, rats,
and other small mammals have wound up in unin—
tended cruelty because the little creatures became
too numerous. Keep males and females separated.

CAGES sold for mice and rats almost always are
too small. A cage for mice should be at least 2 feet
long and one foot deep and high. The front may be of
“hardware cloth” or screen.

A pair of rats should have a cage nearly the
size of an orange crate.

Both mice and rats like to have acovered sleep—
ing and nesting box in their cage. The box should be
about five inches on each dimension for mice, a bit
bigger for rats. A one—inch entrance hole will do for
mice, a bigger hole will be needed for rats.

Cages and bedding boxes must be cleaned regu—
larly. IF THERE IS ANY ODOR, THE CAGE IS NOT
CLEAN. It is a good ideato use a flat metal tray as
the bottom of a cage so that it can be lifted out and
washed. Unprotected wood will absorb urine. Use
sawdust, fine wood shavings, finely torn newspaper,
or any other absorbent materials on the cage bot—
tom and in the bedbox. Grass is not desirable; it is
likely to be damp.

Both rats and mice react very quickly to neglect
in FEEDING and WATERING. They need water at
all times and they need food often and regularly.

Small—sized kibbled dog biscuit is a good food
for both mice and rats. This can be the principal
food but a thoughtful owner will provide variety. Let
them have bits of almost anything served on your
own table. Meat and fish are desirable.

TEMPERATURES of the ordinary house will be
just about right. Very low or very high temperatures
will cause trouble. Keep the cage out of drafts.

Both rats and mice will allow themselves to be
handled freely, and with evidence of pleasure. The
bodies are fragile and the handling must be gentle.
Small children are likely to grasp the animals too
firmly and should be carefully coached until they are
free of nervousness. Individual rats and mice may
be allowed to exercise, once in a while, in a care—
fully closed room. If they have been gently treated
and accustomed to human handling, they will be easy
to recover. Usually, however, they should be con-
fined to their cages.

DISEASE is not often aproblem withpet rats and
mice. They may catch cold, in which case they need
to be kept comfortably warm and allowed to rest. If
a mouse or rat develops atumor or is seriously in-
jured, the kindest thing is euthanasia. Consult your
humane society or veterinarian about methods.

HAMSTERS

The golden (Syrian) hamster looks something
like a cross between a mouse and a guinea pig. Its
character traits and its needs are about the same—-
between those of a mouse and a guinea pig. It is a
very satisfactory pet.

Hamsters can breed even faster than mice! The
female bears a litter from 3 to 12 babies only 16
days after mating. She often will mate again in less
than 7 weeks after the first mating. The younger
generation can mate when only 8 weeks old. The
humane pet owner will keep this process under con—
trol by separating males and females.

A CAGE for a hamster should be at least 24
inches long, 12 inches wide and 12 inches high. Bed—
ding and sanitary arrangements should be similar
to those recommended for rats and mice.

A special arrangement is needed to give DRINK—
ING WATER to a hamster. Pet stores sell a special
bottle which, inverted, allows only one drop of water
to come out at a time. Fasten this bottle to the side
of the cage, upside down, with a small container
underneath to catch the drip. A bottle like this can
be made by running a small copper or glass tube
through a rubber cork that will fit any bottle at hand.
Keep the bottle always full.

FOOD for ahamster can be poultry breedingpel—
lets, rabbit pellets, or special hamster pellets (pro—
curable at pet stores),plus milk, carrot, green veg—
etables, and an occasional drop of cod liver oil. A
hamster needs only about an ounce of food twice a
day.

A female that is about to deliver young should be
taken to a separate cage. She is likely to fight even
with her mate.

TEMPERATURES for hamsters should be about
70 degrees.

Hamsters that are kept clean, well fed, and well
watered have few diseases. Treat common colds
with warmth and rest. A veterinarian should be con—
sulted about such troubles as broken teeth, injuries,
and illness that seems any more serious than a cold.
Any ROTENONE powder will control FLEAS or oth-

er similar parasites. Do NOT use DDT or Lindane
powders.

GUINEA PIGS

There are few small pets as easy to care for as
guinea pigs (or cavies, as they also are called). And
there probably is no small mammal that can be
more entertaining.

A guinea pig HOME (for-apair, orperhaps up to
four animals) can be a wooden box about 18 inches
high, 2 feet wide and from 3 t06 feet long. They are
very active and need room for exercise. A good part
of the exercise can be provided by taking the little
animals out of their box and allowing them to play
about a room. They are easily recovered and their
happy antics when roaming freely are part of the fun
of owning them. Bedding like that recommended for
hamsters must be provided and must be changed at
least twice a week.

FEEDING is simple. Guinea pigs are vegetable
eaters. The simplest andperhaps best foodis rabbit
pellets or special guinea pig pellets, obtainable at
pet stores and farm feed stores. Guinea pigs eat
very often and food should be constantly available.
Twice a week old food should be thrown out and the
food dish washed. The pellets should be supple-
mented with a moderate quantity of green vegetable
leaves and carrots.

WATER must be available at all times.

In clean cages, guinea pigs develop few diseases
or ailments. Rotenone powders will eliminate fleas
and mites should these appear. Low temperatures
and drafts incude colds. Keep the quarters close
to 70 degrees and trouble will be uncommon. If diar-
rhea develops, eliminate green foods. Too few green
foods, however, may induce scurvy. avitamin defic—
iency disease.

If your pet has any serious or continuing disease
or injury, consult your veterinarian.

A guinea pig should belifted with two hands—one
at the shoulder and one under the rear end. They
seem to like gentle handling but actively resist any
roughness.

Despite popular impression, guinea pigs do not -.

 




breed as prolifically as do rats, mice, or hamsters.
The young are born fully haired and with eyes open.
They start eating adult food about a week after birth.

RABBITS

Rabbits are too often keptintoo—small quarters.
It is not humane to keep rabbits as pets unless you
can provide decently large cages. Rabbits live sev-
eral years and they should not be expected to spend
all of that time in a hutch where they cannot exer-
cise. Wild rabbits should not be kept as pets under
any circumstances.

A HOUSE (hutch) for a rabbit must be at least
2 feet deep and wide and at least 4 feet long. Six
feet would be better.

A rabbit produces quite a quantity of urine and
feces and a hutch floor should have a removable
metal tray. The tray should be covered deeply with
sawdust, wood shavings, crushed sugar cane (pro-
curable at poultry supply and feed stores), or some
similarly ab 3 o r b e nt material. Some commercial
breeders keep rabbits on wire net floors but these
are not comfortable for the rabbit.

Provide a sleeping box, deeply nested with hay,
straw, or something similar.

A rabbit hutch may remain outdoors the year
around, provided it is WELL insulated against wind
and rain and is sheltered from excessive sun, AND
provided there is a warm nest—box with plenty of
bedding. There must be strong protection from dogs.

FEEDING is easy, but the dietis important. Most
farm feed stores sell aprepared rabbit pellet, which
can be the mainstay of the diet. Supplement pellets
with lettuce, carrots, dandelion leaves, turnips,
grass, clover, hay. Let the rabbit have as much as
it will eat during a night. Keep food dishes clean.

WATER must be available constantly. Change the
water every day.

HANDLING is important. Never lift a rabbit by
its ears. The body is heavy and must be supported
with a hand underneath.

SANITATION is VERY important in care of rab-
bits. The hutch must be cleaned (scrubbed thorough—
ly) frequently. Bedding must be clean and dry.

Dishes must be clean. Flies must be controlledore

Rabbits are susceptible to “snuffles . nYl ur
technically called CONTAGIOUS RHINITIS_- . 3c
veterinarian can help with injection of an antibio (it;
Most rabbits recover without treatment but the V 'th
erinarian can shorten the discomfort- A rabbit W1st
“snuffles” should be kept warm, and allowet1 to re '
Always keep water available. ts is

The breeding of rabbits that are kept aspe . t-
not recommended. Fewpeople cangive “pet Iriden
ment to more than two or three rabbits. Chil ‘rb’
who find pleasure and education in one or two rd (1
bits are likely to feel that more are a burden an
are likely to neglect them.

MAKING FRIENDS

Every small animal discussed inthisleaﬂet'ca;1
be a desirable pet. Individuals of each speCIes haVS
individual personalities, just as do indiVidual dog—
or individual human beings. They will reward senslla
tive, thoughtful owners with Visible friendship ant r
really touching trust. There is nothing-funnier no—
more appealing than a guinea pig indulging itsoveil“-
sized curiosity about apiece of your costume Jewe
ry or the tips of your Shoelaces. A tiny white mouse,
sitting on your shoulder and eating apellet from
your fingers, is a heartwarming exhibition that yotl
are trusted. A rabbit, once satisfied that you arehc:
friend, will play around your yard and then hop rig
u into our la like a cat.

p The yowner pof any of these small animals who
does not give his pets plenty of opportunity to ShOWf
their liking for him is missing the real pleasure o
owning them. h t

Experts in humane education strongly urge l a
children should not be givenpets of this type until it
is clear that they will give the animals the care ne-
cessary, including companionship. Pet—keeplng that
ends in neglect of the animals is the reverse of good
education and character training.

SPECIAL NOTE -—-It is unkind to confine any na-
tive wild animal or bird as a pet. In many states It
is also illegal. If you findababy animal in the Wild.
LEAVE IT.

YOUR HUMANE ORGANIZATION

S There are more than 750 agencies in the United

tates and Canada which are concerned with the pre-
Vention of cruelty to animals. In your community, the
organization may be known as an SPCA-(Society for
gheprevention of Cruelty to Animals), as the Humane
octety, the Animal Rescue League, or by some such
Similar name. Most of these organizations are affili-
ated With The American Humane Association (AHA)
and are. doing everything possible to protect domestic
Pets, livestock, working animals and wildlife from
cruelty and suffering. It is worthwhile for you to know
about your local humane organization and the services
It offers. If you have any problems with animals, these
are the agencies which can give you helpful advice and
guidance.

Most humane organizations provide temporary
shelter for animals. Pets are available for adoption
into good homes from these shelters. These agencies,
along with hundreds of PET PATROL® radio stations,
help to reunite lost pets with their owners.

Experts from humane agencies inspect and offer
helpful advice to Stockyards, packinghouses and similar
installations. They supervise all forms of animal
eprOitation to correct possible abuses. They advise
lawmakers on legislation which affects animals and
their owners at the municipal, county, state and federal
levels. Their educational programs teach kindness
and compassion to millions of youngsters throughout
the world.

Learn the name and address of your nearest humane
agency, and get acquainted with it. If you do not find
a humane organization in your immediate area, ask
The American Humane Association, P. O. Box 1266,
Denver, Colorado 80201 for the name and address of
the society nearest you. Then, when you need advice
and help with any animal problems, you will know
where to turn for expert and friendly help.

Your local humane organization needs your support!
A letter or phone call will bring information about the
program and how it is financed.

. ‘ ~“"-."7-‘,\“‘7")7:“:1‘\r, N’I ~ .. . f“ -‘ 1, .- - ..- ,_ .

 

 

The American Humane Association. Denver. Colo.

 




OPINIONS OF BRITISH SCIENTISTS ON HOME OFFICE
CONTROL OF EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

Report addreued to [lie Prey/dent, Animal Welfare InJ‘fi/nte, New York by Major C. IV. Hnme, M.C., B.Sf., M.I.Biol.

(Secretary-General of Univerjities Federation for Animal IVe/fare)

 




 

In connection with Bill 8.3570, introduced by Senator
Cooper and others in the US. Senate and providing for
the control of experiments on animals, and in View of
propaganda to the effect that Home Ofﬁce control frus-
trates medical research in Britain, the following questions
were addressed by Dr. E. Hindle, F.R.S., President of
UFAW, to biological Fellows of the Royal Society and by

myself to a few other British scientists:

1. Do you cOnsider that in consequence of the system

of licensing and inspection administered by the Home
Ofﬁce, medical research of the highest quality cannot be

carried out in Britain?

2. Would you prefer Home Office control to be
abolished, so that persons without scientiﬁc training
would be permitted to experiment on animals without
supervision ?

3. Have you in your experience found that the
British system seriously frustrates legitimate research?

In all, 88 scientists, mostly Fellows of the Royal Society,
replied to these questions. Of these only one felt frus-
trated by Home Ofﬁce control. Twenty-one simply an-
swered ”No” to each question; sixty-six answered ”No”
and added comments, most of which strongly reinforced
their support for the British system, thOugh there were a
few minor criticisms on matters of detail.

Certain minor amendments of our law and practice, not
involving questions of principle and not relevant to the
Cooper Bill, might be desirable, but there can be no doubt
that Home Oﬂice control is a great success. All of these
supporters of Home Ofﬁce control are experimental ani-
mal biologists with the exception of two physicists, Sir
Edward Appleton and Sir George Thomson, and one
botanist, Sir Edward Salisbury, formerly Biological Secre-
tary of the Royal Society, who were approached in View
of their exceptionally wide acquaintance with research and
researchers in many disciplines. Among medical research
workers who have written to support Home Ofﬁce control
are such men as Prof. Alexander Haddow, F.R.S., Direc-
tor of the Chester Beatty Research Institute; Prof. F. A. E.
Crew,‘ F.R.S., formerly Professor of Public Health in the
University of Edinburgh; Prof. H. A. Krebs, F.R.S.,, Nobel
Prizeman; Sir Bryan Matthews, F.R.S., Professor of Physi-
ology in the University of Cambridge and a Vice-President
of the Royal Society in 1957; Prof. P. B. Medawar, F .R.S.,
Nobel Prizeman and Director elect of the National Insti-
tute of Medical Research at Mill Hill; Dr. G. F. Marrian,
F.R.S., Director of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund;

Prof. Sir James Paterson Ross, Past President of the Royal
College of Surgeons; Lord Boyd Orr, F .R..S., ﬁrst Director--
General of the United Nations Food and Agricultural.
Organization, and formerly Director of the Rowett Re-A
search Institute; Sir Francis Walshe, F.R.S., for sixteen
years Editor of Brain; Sir William Slater, F.R.S., Secretary
of the Agricultural Research Council; and Dr. W. R.
Wooldridge, Founder and Director of the Animal Health
Trust.

Dr. Leonard Colebrook, F.R.S., wrote: "I am very glad
indeed that we have control by the Home Ofﬁce and I
should be very sorry to see it abolished”. Sir Francis
Walshe, F.R.S., wrote: ”A wide familiarity with the
literature of experimental neuro-physiology leads me to-
think that in other countries where no such rational mode-
of control is used, not a few futile and unnecessarily pain-
ful animal experiments are carried out, by persons not
Prof. A. T. Phillipson,
Deputy Director of the Rowett Research Institute, wrote:
”I am glad to hear the Americans are trying to introduce
a Bill similar to our Home Ofﬁce Act. . . . The existence
of the Act makes people think a bit harder before starting
an experiment that needs a special licence”. Prof. H. A.
Krebs, F.R.S., a Nobel Prizeman, wrote: ”I am very glad
indeed to support a move to introduce in the United States
legislation on animal welfare similar to that operating in
Great Britain. My answer to all three questions which
you formulate at the end of your letter is a simple 'no’”.
Prof. A. Haddow, F.R.S., Director of the Chester Beatty
Cancer Research Institute, wrote: ”I have, of course, been
most interested to learn of the American Bill, and sorry to
hear of the opposition to it”. Mr. R. T. Charles, of the
Pollards Wood Cancer Researh Station and Shell Research
Ltd, wrote: ”I believe any country can model its vivisec-
tion laws with safety along our pattern in the UK”. I
may add the opinion of Sir Edward Salisbury, F.R.S., who,
though a botanist, has a wide acquaintance with research
workers in many ﬁelds and was formerly Biological Secre-
tary of the Royal Society. He wrote: "I think that it
should be obvious to all who have the real advancement of
knowledge at heart that to allow the inexperienced to carry

out experiments under any other conditions is inexclusably
bad training”.

always qualiﬁed to do them”.

I now turn to another aspect of the subject. Everything
depends on the way in which legislation of this kind is
administered, and on the quality of those inspectors or
others who administer it. Sir George Thomson, F.R.S.,
Nobel Prizeman and this year’s President of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science, though he is

 




 

a physicist, has. such wide connections in the scientiﬁc
world that his opinionmust carry weight. He wrote: "Ob-
viously my replies to your queries are based on second-
hand information, but I can honestly say that I have never
heard any serious criticism of the present system of control
from medical research workers or, indeed, from those
doing research on other forms of biology. My answer to
your three questions is therefore 'No’ in each case”. A
similar reply was sent by another Nobel Prizeman in
Physics, Sir Edward Appleton, Principal of the University
of Edinburgh and a Past President of the British Associa-
tion etc. etc.

Sir John Boyd, F.R.S., Past President of the Royal .So-
ciety of Tropical Medicine, wrote: "As far as my expe-
rience goes I have found the Home Ofﬁce inspectors
reasonable and helpful and I have never suffered from
obstruction of any kind. It is true that I have heard occa-
sional reports to the contrary, but .I have been left, with
the impression that the difﬁculties arose from impatience
and a tendency to disregard the law on the part of the
licensees and not from any desire of the inspector to in-
terfere with legitimate activities”. Prof. R. J. Harrison, of
the London Hospital Medical College, wrote: "On two
important occasions the Home Ofﬁce made suggestions of
the very greatest help and signiﬁcance which materially
increased the standard of the research and the importance
of the results”. Prof. Hamilton Hartridge, F.R.S., the
physiologist, wrote: "I always found the Home Ofﬁce and
its inspectors co-operative and helpful. There were oc-
casions when their advice was opportune and invaluable”.
Sir John Hammond, F.R.S., of the Cambridge School of
Agriculture, wrote of Home Ofﬁce Control —— "It forces
us to train our young research workers efﬁciently”. Prof.
Alexander Haddow wrote that the Home Ofﬁce system
"provides an invaluable guarantee of responsible stand-
ards”. Prof. David Keilin, F.R.S., of the Molteno Insti-
tute, Cambridge, answered the question whether the British
system frustrates legitimate research .thus: "Just the op-
posite, it compels the worker to plan and to carry out his
experiments with more care. This greatly improves the
quality of the research and is of beneﬁt to the research
worker himself”. Dr. John F. Loutit, Director of the
Radiobiological Research Unit at Harwell, wrote that Home
Ofﬁce control "acts as a stimulus to us to have the highest
quality of animal care and maintenance, which we consider
to be an essential part of a good biological experiment”.
Dr. R. J. C. Harris, Head of the Division of Experimental
Biology and Virology of the Imperial Cancer Research
Fund, wrote: ”I would ﬁght to preserve the Home Ofﬁcer
control of animal experiments (as it is now administered)

 

because there is no doubt that animal work carried on
without such conditions is liable to be fruitless. On the
contrary, I have found that the British system helps legit-
imate research because the advice of the Home Ofﬁce In-
spectors. is available When one is in any doubt about the
conditions etc. which are optimum for the particular work
one. has in hand”. Sir Francis Walshe wrote: "I regard
the. British practice as being in the best interests both of
experimentalists and of the animals they use." Prof.
F. A. E. Crew, F.R.S.,, wrote: "I have no hesitation what-
ever .in-an_swering your questions. In my considered view
the system helps, as do also-the inspectors. It facilitates
and does not impede or hinder”. To the question whether
he would prefer Home Ofﬁce control to be abolished he
replied: "I most certainly would not. I would oppose such
a move with everything I have got . . . I think the ex-
perimental animal should be given protection. I do not
think. that just anybody should be allowed to do just any-
thing with a_ living creature”. Dr. Edward Hindle, F.R.S.,
wrote: "I should be very sorry indeed to see any limita-
tion in the present system of control which has worked so
satisfactorily for more than three-quarters of a century”.
Dr. C. A. Hoare, F.R.S., of the .Wellcome Laboratories of
Tropical Medicine, wrote: ”I believe that — far from
hindering scientiﬁc investigations — the system of licens-
ing and inspection “adopted in Britain provides conditions
for research that are beyond reproach”. Prof. A. St. G.
Huggett, F.R.S., physiologist, wrote: "The Act of 1876
stops .the frivolous but not the responsible worker”.

A number of our correspondents welcome the fact that
Home Ofﬁce control protects the experimenter as well as
the animal. This is because educated laymen know that
experimenters are not allowed to do just anything to ani-
mals, and I come ﬁnally to the question —— what will be
the impact of the Cooper Bill on American laboratories if
it passes into law?

Of course, everything depends on the quality of the
inspectorate to be appointed. We have been able to ﬁnd
suitable personnel in Britain; let us assume, then, that the
American inspectors will be conscientious, humane, highly
intelligent, practical, and incorruptible, as our inspectors
are considered to be.

On this assumption. I venture to express a personal
opinion based partly on this correspondence and partly on
information from other sources. It is thatthe Cooper Bill,
if passed into law, would have the following eHects:

(1) It would restrict experimentation on animals to
‘ persons who are scientiﬁcally competent to carry it on;

 




 

 

(2) It would promote exchange of views among scien-
tists on ways in which suffering in the laboratory can be
reduced to a minimum;

(3) It would promote efficiency by focusing attention
on the statistical and other aspects of methodology;

(4) It would disallow experiments which are ethically
inadmissible.

As regards the last point, let us consider what happens
when a British scientist asks the Home Office for permis-
sion to use some new technique which looks as if it might
entail serious suffering. In the ﬁrst place the Home Office,
with its scientiﬁc advisers, will try to suggest an alternative
technique which would be free from the disadvantage, and
usually this solves the problem. In the few instances in
which such an alternative cannot be found the Home Office
has to consider, for one thing, the qualiﬁcations of the
applicant. A ﬁrst-rate scientist might be allowed to do
some things which would not be permitted to an inferior
one, but precautions to reduce suffering as much as possi-
ble would be required in any case. All that would be dis-
cussed with the applicant on an expert level, and so far
we have encountered one objection, which I will deal with
shortly. I do not reckon as an objection the following
remark made by Prof. O. E. Lowenstein (after saying ”a
wide range of medical research involving vivisection is
being carried out in Britain, and there is nothing to in-
terfere with the quality of this research provided a good
case has been made out for its necessity”) —— ”I myself

have had to give up a line of research in the past because
of difficulties in connection with the blinding of ﬁsh, but,
in view of the fact that there are many other things for
me to do, I do not feel seriously frustrated”. Again, Dr.
E. N. Willmer, F.R.S., wrote: ”I see no reason to believe
that the licensing system affects the quality of medical re-
search adversely. It may certainly prevent certain ﬁelds
from being investigated by methods which most of us
would ﬁnd repugnant, but other lines of investigation will

no doubt be found for those areas, which are in any case

small’ ’.

This brings me to that one of our correspondents who
would like to abolish Home Office control. He wants to
carry out certain experiments on the brain and considers
that knowledge in this ﬁeld cannot be sufﬁciently got if the
Pain Rule is insisted on. Let us assume that he is right.
In any case, there are some kinds of knowledge which
cannot be got without resort to unethical methods, such
as lethal experiments on human prisoners. The general
tenor of the letters we have received is, with that one
possible exception, in agreement with the following re-
mark made by that distinguished bacteriologist Dr. Leonard
Colebrook, F.R.S., who was formerly on the staff of the
Medical Research Council: ”I suppose most scientiﬁc peo—
ple who have any compassion would agree that there are
some experiments on animals which are not legitimate”.

C. W. HUME
25th January, 1961

 




HISTORICAL NOTE ON THE BRITISH ACT OF 1876
REGULATING ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS

Reprinted from the ﬁrst edition of
THE UFAW HANDBOOK ON THE CARE AND
MANAGEMENT OF LABORATORY ANIMALS

 




 

CHAPTER 1

LAW AND PRACTICE: THE RIGHTS OF LABORATORY
ANIMALS

By Maior C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.

1. Historical Note

The British Association and British Medical Association. At its Liverpool
meeting, 1870, the British Association for the Advancement of Science requested
the Committee of Section D :

to consider from time to time whether any steps can be taken by them, or
by the Association, which will tend to reduce to its minimum the suffering
entailed by legitimate physiological enquiries ; or any which will have the
effect of employing the inﬂuence of this Association in the discouragement
of experiments which are not clearly legitimate on live animals.

At the Edinburgh meeting in the following year a committee appointed by
Section D presented the following report, which was adopted by the General
Committee :

(i) No experiment which can be performed under the inﬂuence of an
anaesthetic ought to be done without it.

(ii) No painful experiment is justiﬁable for the mere purpose of illustrating
a law or fact already demonstrated ; in other words, experimentation
without the employment of anaesthetics is not a ﬁtting exhibition for
teaching purposes.

(iii) Whenever, for the investigation of new truth, it is necessary to make a
painful experiment, every effort should be made to ensure success,
in order that the suffering inﬂicted may not be wasted. For this
reason, no painful experiment ought to be performed by an unskilled
person with insufﬁcient instruments and assistance, or in places not
suitable to the purpose, that is to say, anywhere except in physio-
logical and pathological laboratories, under prOper regulations.

(iv) In the scientiﬁc preparation for veterinary practice, operations ought
not to be performed upon living animals for the mere purpose of
obtaining greater operative dexterity.

Signed : M. A. Lawson, Oxford. G. M. Humphry, Cambridge.
john H. Balfour, A rz‘hnr Garngee, Edinburgh.
William Flower, Royal College of Surgeons, London.
]. thrdon Sanderson, London.
George Rollesz‘on, Secretary, Oxford.

In 1871 a Committee of the British Medical Association reported in the same
sense. Although it is now agreed that these recommendations did not go far
I I

 

 

 

’7
H

enougl
attem]
of anii
Britaii
sweati
of the
ments
A :
Owen,
other
Hooke
Bill w:
to Lyc
patron
held a
introd
shell, :
Royal
It ‘
subjec
encoui
Lecky
Justici
inspire
scienti
on an
useless
(sze,
and hi
cruelt;
too ht
1871)
kept ]
vivisel
“ I thi
on all
degen‘
scufﬂi
engag
anima
that l
struct
carrie
in the
receni
Then
quent
those
T1
in the




3 U F A W HANDBOOK

enough, nevertheless when we remember that they represent the ﬁrst informed
attempt to arbitrate between the claims of science on one hand and the rights
of animals on the other, that the signatories were parties to the suit, and that
Britain had only recently discarded such things as colonial slavery and the
sweating of children, we must pay homage to the breadth of mind and humanity ,
of the men of science who laid such a foundation for the subsequent develop-
ments which will now be described.

A petition calling for legislation was signed by Darwin, Huxley, Jenner,
Owen, the Presidents of the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, and
other leaders of scientiﬁc thought, but on I4 April, 1875, Darwin wrote to
Hooker: “ We now think it advisable to go further than a mere petition.” A
Bill was accordingly drafted by his son-in-law, R. B. Litchﬁeld, and entrusted
to Lyon Playfair, F.R.S., afterwards Lord Playfair. The possessor of this apt
patronymic was MP. for' the Universities of Edinburgh and St. Andrews, had
held a Chair of Chemistry in Edinburgh, as Gladstone’s Postmaster-General had
introduced halfpenny postcards, had invented the incendiary shell and the gas
shell, and as a Commissioner of the Great Exhibition had helped to found the
Royal College of Science.

It would be unfair not to mention that attention had ﬁrst been called to the
subject by a lay movement organized by Miss Frances Power Cobbe, with
encouragement from Queen Victoria, F.R.S., F roude, Tennyson, Carlyle,
Lecky, Martineau, Lord Shaftesbury, Cardinal Manning, the Lord Chief
Justice, the LOrd Chief Baron, and others. The anti-vivisectionists were
inspired by humane feelings that deserved respect, but the methodology of
scientiﬁc research lay beyond their comprehension and they rested their case
on an extraordinary claim to the effect that animal experimentation must be
useless, though Miss Cobbe herself wisely protested against their doing so
(Life, vol. 2, p. 292). Moreover they refused to discriminate between callous
and humane research workers, and held all alike up to execration as monsters of
cruelty. In this way they alienated sympathizers, and even Darwin, who was
too humane to ﬁsh with live worms and had written to Ray Lankester (22 May,
1871) that vivisection was a subject that “ made him sick with horror ” and
kept him awake at night, felt compelled to publish a rebuttal of the anti-
vivisectionists’ sweeping allegations. He wrote to Romanes (22 April, 1881) :
“ I thought it fair to bear my share of the abuse poured in so atrocious a manner
on all physiologists.” Tempers were lost on both sides, and the discussion
degenerated into a dogﬁght. In fact, the dogs have gone on barking and
scufﬂing for three-quarters of a century with all the zest and gusto that those
engaging animals do bring to that sort of employment. One result is that
animal protectionists as such have no voice in implementing the legal rights
that have been accorded to laboratory animals. Another is that the con-
structive discussion of Home Ofﬁce practice, sine ira ac studio, cannot be
carried on in public. Another is that public opinion in scientiﬁc circles, which
in the eighteen—seventies befriended animals as a matter of course, has until
recently been rendered allergic to any reference to the prevention of cruelty.
Then animals enjoyed the open patronage of scientists as such, but subse-
quently they were largely deprived of it by the polemical intemperance of
those who intended to act as their champions.

The Cardwell Commission. In May I875 Lyon Playfair introduced his Bill
in the Commons, but a week earlier a Bill promoted by anti-Vivisectionists had

 




 

THE RIGHTS OF LABORATORY ANIMALS 3

been introduced in the Lords. On the advice of Disraeli’s government both
Bills were therefore withdrawn, and a Royal Commission was appointed. The
Chairman was that Viscount Cardwell who as Secretary for War had founded
the Army Reserve. The other members were T. H. Huxley, P.R.S., some time
Hunterian Professor at the Royal College of Surgeons, and F ullerian Professor
of Physiology at the Royal Institution ; Sir Eric Erichsen, P.R.S., some time
Professor of Surgery at University College, London ; W. E. Forster, who had
been the minister responsible for the Elementary Education Act of 1870 ; Lord
Winmarleigh, formerly Chief Secretary for Ireland ; Sir J. B. Karslake, who had
held ofﬁce as Solicitor-General and Attorney-General ; and R. H. Hutton, who
had been Professor of Mathematics at Bedford College, London, and joint
editor of the National Review, the” Economist and the Spectator.

The main report of this weighty Commission was unanimous, but Mr.
Hutton added a minority report to the effect that certain species which are
popular in this country should be exempted from experiment. The main
report stated, inter alia :

that the inﬂiction of severe and protracted agony is in any case to be
avoided; that the abuse of the practice (of vivisection) by inhuman or
unskilful persons . . . is justly abhorrent to the moral sense of Your
Majesty’s subjects generally, not least so of the most distinguished physi-
ologists and most eminent physicians and surgeons.

With reference to the inﬂiction of any pain that was not absolutely necessary
they referred to Charles Darwin’s dictum that “ it deserves detestation and
abhorrence ” and added :

This principle is accepted generally by the very highly educated men whose
lives are devoted to scientiﬁc investigation and education. . . .

On the other hand, Huxley, Erichsen and their ﬁve colleagues unanimously
recorded the following opinion :

Besides the cases in which inhumanity exists, we are satisﬁed that‘ there
are others in which carelessness and indifference prevail to an extent
sufﬁcient to form a ground for legislative interference. . . . Cases may not
improbably arise in future in which the physiologist may be disposed to
underrate the pain inﬂicted. . . .

The Commission’s proposals for legislation were consistent with the British
Association’s report, and are embodied in the present statute with minor
changes and provision for administrative machinery. The concluding para-
graph of the unanimous report of the Cardwell Commission was as follows :

’We believe that by such a measure as we have now proposed the progress
of medical knowledge may be made compatible with the just requirements
of humanity. In zeal for physiology the country of Harvey, Hunter, Bell
and Darwin may well endure the test of comparison. We trust that Your
Majesty’s Government and the Parliament of this Kingdom will recognize
the claim of the lower animals to be treated with humane consideration,
and will establish the right of the community to be assured that this claim
shall not be forgotten amid the triumphs of advancing science.

that
on I
sufﬁ
in C
In n

A-L-LLAL—J

in d
Rob
Brig
arde

A. A A A A A _L A A\ L-A

Sir
of I
in t
the
part
a sig




4 U F A W HANDBOOK

The Act of 1876. The ensuing Government Bill, which became the statute
that is in force to-day, was introduced in the Lords by the Earl of Caernarvon
on 15 May, 1876. In its original form it appears to have been drafted without
sufﬁcient knowledge of the way in which research is done, but it was amended
in Committee of the Lords to meet the objections raised on behalf of science.
In moving the second reading in the Commons on 9 August (Hansard, vol. 231) :

Mr. Assheton Cross (Home Secretary) said [col. 890] that they were endeav-
ouring to put in practice and carry out simply the resolutions of the British
Association ; and [col. 894] that the Bill, if passed, would set an example to
the world that the medical and scientiﬁc men of this country had put down
the inﬂiction of unnecessary cruelty and pain under the guise of scientiﬁc
enquiry.

The Bill was attacked on behalf of the anti-vivisectionists by Mr. Holt, and
in defence of the reputation of the medical profession by Dr. Ward and by
Robert Lowe, F.R.S. The latter, afterwards Lord Sherbrooke, was one of
Bright’s Adullamites, the first M.l’. for the University of London, and an
ardent advocate of bicycling.

Mr. Lowe (University of London) said the language of the Bill “ was such
as to lead to the supposition that the persons against whom it was directed
were unworthy of trust and had wicked propensities.” He then turned to
the general law against cruelty to animals and pointed out that “ the law
did not say a word in favour of non—domestic animals ; so far as they were
concerned, their charter of freedom and mercy had not yet begun to be
written in the legislation of this country.” (Later, in the Committee stage
of the Bill, he was to move, without success, the addition of a clause dealing
comprehensively with all forms of cruelty and imposing severe penalties on
anybody who should “ cruelly abuse or torture any animal.”)

Sir John Lubbock also condemned, by contrast with “ the general sentiments
of English men of science, the dreadful sufferings of animals which are caught
in traps, and which have so often been known in their torment to gnaw off
the limb by which they were held fast.” Honour having been satisﬁed, all
parties agreed to the second reading, which took place without a division after
a signiﬁcant intervention by Lyon Playfair.

Mr. Lyon Playfair (Universities of Edinburgh and St. Andrews) said
[col. 921] : “ We propose to regulate one minute corner of the vast ﬁeld of
the cruelty of the world. When we do so we are bound to survey the whole
ﬁeld for legislation on a future occasion. . . . I know of nothing more
cruel than the mode of supplying rabbits to the Billingsgate market. They
are caught in traps, and struggle through the whole of the night .in cruel
anguish, often with broken legs. . . . Now if one of our dozen physmlogists
was to describe a single experiment made with such reckless disregard of
animal suffering he would be scouted by his brother physiologists and driven
out of the Kingdom.

“ There are, however, well-grounded reasons for legislation, and these
operated upon me last year when 1 introduced a Bill on the same sub-
ject. . . . It was in reality prepared by very eminent physiologists, among
whom I may mention Mr. Darwin, Mr. Huxley, and Dr. Burdon Sanderson,

 




 

 

 

THE RIGHTS OF LABORATORY ANIMALS 5

and was approved by the heads of the two Colleges in London. . It is
obvious, therefore, that physiologists themselves were very early in the
ﬁeld in recognition of the necessity for legislation. . . . .

“ A statute cannot regulate individual motives and consc1ences when
these have been placed in antagonism to its provisions ; but a. statute which
asks physiologists to co-Operate with the State in preventing cruelty to
animals will be obeyed with alacrity.”

The Ram Commission. The statute conferred wide discretionary powers
on the Home Secretary, leaving him free to develop an administrative policy
in the light of experience, and thirty years later Campbell Bannerman’s govern-
ment appointed a new Royal Commission to examine the results. It sat for
six years and put 21,761 questions to 60 witnesses ; two of its members, includ-
ing the original Chairman, Viscount Selby, failed to survive. The eventual
Chairman was A. J. Ram, K.C., Recorder of Wolverhampton, and ﬁve of the
remaining seven members were medical men, namely Sir J. McFadyean, who
was also a veterinarian and Principal of the Royal Veterinary College; Sir
W. S. Church, President of the Royal College of Surgeons; W. H. Gaskell,
F.R.S., University Lecturer in Physiology, Cambridge; Sir William Job
Collins, F.R.C.S., MP. for the University of London and some time Chairman
of the London County Council ; and Dr. George Wilson. The other two mem-
bers were Col. A. M. Lockwood, C.V.O., Coldstream Guards, Retd., afterwards
Lord Lambourne, Lord Lieutenant of Essex, for many years Chairman of the
Kitchen Committee of the House of Commons, a horse-and-dog-loving squire
and a Vice-President of the R.S.P.C.A. ; and Sir M. D. Chalmers, formerly
Parliamentary Counsel at the Treasury. All the commissioners signed the
report, but three of them appended reservations which will be noticed later.

After examining the charges brought by anti-vivisectionist witnesses against
the working of the Act, the Commission said :

So far as we can judge we believe that holders of licences and certificates,
With rare exceptions, have endeavoured with loyalty and good faith to
conform to the provisions of the law.

Onthe other hand they referred to two physiologists who had expressed views
Wthh showed them to be blind to humane requirements, and added the
following litotes :

to grant a licence or certiﬁcates to any person holding such views . . . is
calculated to create serious misgivings in the minds of the public.

As regards the utility of experiments on animals they found that “ notwith-
standlng failures, valuable knowledge has been acquired.” With regard
to anaesthetics they found that

it is .possible to establish and maintain, even for long periods of time, a
condltion of complete insensibilitv to pain in the lower animals, as in man,
yet their administration in order to secure such anaesthesia requires caution
and watchfulness as well as the natural solicitude of a humane and skilful
Operator.

With regard to the pithing of frogs and other animals they found that

no lesser Operation than a complete destruction of the brain (not only of

 

 

 

the
be :
The
by ;
ade

The
increas
should
of the
certiﬁc
superv:
to licer
or spec
ofadvi

Tht
hOWCVt
conditi
attainc

D6:
of scie:
remarl

 




6 U F A W HANDBOOK

the cerebral hemispheres but also of the basal ganglia) or decapitation should
be accepted as equivalent to the production of complete anaesthesia. . . .
The operation of pithing a warm-blooded animal should be conducted only
by a licensed person, and the operation itself should be performed under an
adequate anmsthetic.

The Commission recommended that the number of Inspectors should be
increased, that research should be centralized as far as possible, that curare
should not be used at all unless an inspector is present, that the responsibility
of the Home Secretary should be in all respects maintained, that licences and
certiﬁcates should continue to be withheld from foreigners except for work under
supervision, that antiseptic and pain conditions should continue to be attached
to licences, that in some cases the Home Secretary should call for an immediate
or special record or report, and that the Home Secretary should appoint a body
of advisers who should not themselves hold licences.

The most radical recommendation made by the Ram Commission related,
however, to the pain condition attached to licences. Previously the pain
condition had applied only “ if the main result of the eXperiment had been
attained.”

Dealing with the notion that any means that is indispensable to the advance
of scientiﬁc knowledge would be justiﬁed by the end in View, the Commission
remarked :

The quest for knowledge may, of course, conﬂict with moral principle.
Thus torture, once largely employed as an instrument for obtaining judicial
evidence, is a case in point. The practice, though justiﬁed by Bacon, was
discarded in England in the seventeenth century and in Scotland a little
later, but was continued on the Continent to the close of the eighteenth
century. Here the inﬂiction of human suffering in View of contemporary
morals was not only regarded as unobjectionable in the pursuit of knowledge
but was purposely utilized to extract information. The growth of the
average moral sense of mankind has condemned and abolished the practice,
not because it did not lead to useful knowledge, but because, however useful
the result, the means could no longer be justiﬁed.

The Commission now recommended that Inspectors should be empowered
to order the killing of an animal and that the Home Secretary should require

that in all cases in which in the opinion of the experimenter the animal is
suffering severe pain which is likely to endure, it shall be his duty to cause
its painless death, even though the object of the experiment has not been attained.

Further than that they felt unable to go, partly because

public opinion sanctions the inﬂiction of pain which is not only severe but
of long duration . . . in the destruction of rabbits and of rats and
other vermin by traps and painful poisons.

However, three of the eight commissioners (Collins, Lockwood and Wilson),
while agreeing that “ experiments adequately safeguarded by law faithfully
administered are justiﬁed and should not be prohibited,” urged in areservation
memorandum that

 




 

THE RIGHTS OF LABORATORY ANIMALS 7

' ' ' ' ' ' ' the ursuit of knowledge leads
f n the course of sc1ent1ﬁc investIgatlon' .p . . .
iolthe inﬂiction of real or obv1ous sufferlng 1t IS rIght that the pursuit
should cease rather than that the inﬂiction of suffering should continue.

' ' ' 'tion the proviso
t sa , the Wished to remove from the pan cond1 .
tlhhaatt tllie gainyshould] be “ likely to endure.” One of them (Wilson) added a

further memorandum in which he expressed a critical attitude towards
research.

Reprinted by
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

 




Reprinted by UFA W (The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)
from NATURE, Vol. 167, p. 213, February 10, 1951, by kind
permission of the Editor.

THE ETHICS OF EXPERIMENTS
ON ANIMALS

By MAJOR C. W. HUME

N considering this difﬁcult subject, two principles

may be taken for granted. First, the relief of suffering
in medical and veterinary practice depends on the
sciences of physiology, pathology and pharmacology,
which in turn depend upon experiments on animals;
experimentation is, therefore, in this respect desirable.
Secondly, although many experiments involve little or
no suffering, others do involve various degree-s of it, and
the inﬂiction of suﬂering is per se undesirable. There
is thus a partial conﬂict between the two principles, and
the problem of reconciling them when it is possible to
do so, and of deciding what compromise ought to be
made when reconciliation is not possible, is a difﬁcult
one which deserves dispassionate study.

Current Practice

Great Britain is far ahead of every other country in
the world in its handling of this difﬁcult problem. An
admirable account of the British law and practice has
been published by the Research Defence Society (15.),
and further information will be found in my chapter in
the ” UF AW Handbook on the Care and Management
of Laboratory Animals.” The two main features of the
British system are the licensing of experimenters, subject
to specified conditions, and the function of the inspectors
acting for the Home Secretary. Although the inspectors
have disciplinary powers in reserve, the effectiveness of
their work depends essentially on the goodwill and co—
operation of the licensees, and in any practicable system
this must be so.

In many other countries, unfortunately, the situation
is far less satisfactory. As regards laboratories in the
Latin countries, eminent British physiologists have
expressed to me the most emphatic condemnation of
procedures they had seen in certain of them. In the
United States there is no effective law, but a code of
humane conduct has been voluntarily drawn up by
biologists, and many conform to it. Others, unfortun-
ate-1y, do not. It would be easy to cite instances; for
example, one in which an excessively painful technique,
applied by one group of humane research workers to
domestic animals under full nembutal anaesthesia, was
applied to rats in a state of full consciousness, without

 




any justiﬁcation whatever, by a different group of
workers who, presumably, could not be bothered to
maintain anaesthesia.

On the average, biologists are probably more humane
than laymen, since they are less likely to regard un—
popular species with contempt. But around every
average there is a statistical scatter, and it is the workers
represented by the lower tail of the distribution curve
who make co-ordination desirable. It is possible for
intellectual brilliance to co-exist with want of sensibility.

Reconciliation of Conﬂicting Principles

The problem is best studied in the light of British
experience. The two principles enunciated in my ﬁrst
paragraph may be said to be reconciled, wholly or in
part, in so far as steps are taken to eliminate or reduce
the amount of discomfort or suffering involved.

The comfort of laboratory animals depends mainly on
management and handling. In recent years these subjects
have received growing attention, which was accentuated
by the publication of the " UFAW Handbook ”; and
the Medical Research Council has recently set up a
Laboratory Animals Bureau to advise experimenters on
it. No doubt the technical value of hygiene is the main
reason given overtly for these precautions, but we may
be sure. that a humanitarian motive also underlies them.
At all events, the need for good animal-management and
for large and well—appointed animal houses in which
it can be carried out is generally recognized by men of
science, although the lay boards of management of some
hospitals and institutes could advantageously try harder
than they do to make funds available for such purposes.

Still more does the comfort of laboratory animals
depend on the laboratory technicians who handle them.
The status and prospects of members of this profession
need, therefore, to be such as to attract plenty of entrants
of the right type. Recently an important step forward
has been taken in the formation of the Animal
Technicians’ Association under the auspices of the
Laboratory Animals Bureau. Another encouraging
development has been the institution of a course for
laboratory technicians (including animal technicians)
at the Paddington Technical Institute, with a particu-
larly broad-minded outlook and a speciﬁc regard for
humanitarian considerations.

Veterinary surgeons could give more help than they
are usually invited to give in advising on the handling
of laboratory animals. British laboratories might do
worse than follow the lead of those in Amsterdam, which
have appointed a qualiﬁed veterinary surgeon to be their
honorary veterinary adviser.

Biological assay not infrequently uses the LD5o
determination, which involves various degrees of dis—
comfort or suffering. Although it is recognized that
non-biological criteria, when available, give greater
precision, the supposition that a biological criterion is
more relevant. to therapeutic potency appears sometimes
to count on the other side when the choice has to be
made. But the lethal dose and the therapeutic dose
belong to parts of the dose-response characteristic which
are remote from one another, and one would like to be
sure that full account is always taken of the degree of
irrelevance introduced by the extrapolation which results
from this fact. In any event, the humane motive
supplies an additional reason for searching for chemical
and physical criteria.

The design of experiments, too, has a humanitarian
aspect. Economy in sampling becomes particularly
important in any research which may involve discomfort
or suffering. Methodologically a pure research may
conveniently be thought of as comprising three stages:
ﬁrst, the formulation of an explanatory hypothesis on
the basis of previous knowledge; secondly, the deduction
from the explanatory hypothesis of a descriptive hypo-
thesis comprising a posited relation between observables;
and thirdly, the testing of the descriptive hypothesis by
experiment, so as to verify or refute the explanatory
hypothesis which implies it. In this veriﬁcation process
a systematic economy in sampling has been made possible
by the methods introduced by R. A. Fisher and his
school. But the humanitarian aspect of the ﬁrst two
stages mentioned above deserves an equally systematic
study. A particular case with important general
implications has been considered in the British journal
of Radiology (22, 671; 1949) by Dr. John Read, who
suggests that lethal radiation experiments “ are not
legitimate if planned (a) to see what effects will turn up,
(1)) to settle some relatively trivial point, or one that is
virtually self—evident, or (c) to add fragmentary pieces
of unco—ordinated data.” Nor yet (d) to rediscover some-
thing which is already known and recorded in the
literature for anybody who will take the trouble to look;
nor (8) if the probability of obtaining fruitful results is
not high. He illustrates these points by reference to
determinations of the lethal dose of whole—body radiation,
involving mortal illness, if not pain, which confound a
number of independent factors that a sound scientiﬁc
method would distinguish. But the whole of Dr. Read’s
paper deserves careful study by anybody interested in
scientiﬁc method, and not only by radiologists.

Restrictions on Research

There remains the question: When a proposed research
cannot be carried out without the imposition of dis-

3

Comfort or suffering, at what level does it cease to be
admissible? What compromise ought to be made between
the claims of science and those of laboratory animals
when the two cannot be reconciled? Analogy with the
commercial treatment of animals is not a satisfactory
guide, for barbarous customs still survive. A scientiﬁc
worker would not wish to take an illiterate trapper as
his exemplar, nor conform his ethics to customs which
thinking men desire to abolish. In practice, the problem
has been approached in Britain by absolute restriction in
some cases and by relative restriction in others.

Absolute Restrictions

Before 1912 it was assumed that science had an
absolute right of way, and that unlimited pain might
properly be inﬂicted if a given piece of information could
not be got without it. The Royal Commission which
reported in 1912, however, made a contrary recommenda—
tion and this, in principle at least, has been adopted by
the Home Ofﬁce, conformably to the fact that the
validity of the utilitarian principle is not unlimited.

Two absolute rules are made by the Home Ofﬁce, and
regarded as binding. The ﬁrst is in effect that all cutting
operations must be performed under full anaesthesia. The
second is the Pain Rule which has been attached to every
licence since the report of the second Royal Commission,
and prescribes, inter alia, that if an animal is found to
be suffering severe pain which is likely to endure it must
forthwith be painlessly killed. This rule is obviously
difﬁcult to interpret, but it establishes an invaluable
principle, and not the least harmful of the anti-
vivisectionists’ errors has been their eagerness to make
capital out of its difﬁculties. A partial solution of these
will be suggested later; meanwhile their nature must be
noted. The licensee is responsible for deciding what is
severe pain, and what period of time is denoted by
“ likely to endure,” and this he must at present do
without any standards of comparison to guide him. At
least two acquaintances of mine have assayed red squill,
much as they disliked doing it. The fact that this
extremely cruel poison is used extensively in commer-
cial deratization is beside the point; the point is that
the work was done under a licence conditioned by the
pain rule, and that it consequently illustrates the need
for standardizing that rule, to which I shall recur.*

Relative Restrictions

When a licence is sought for an experiment which
involves discOmfort or suffering short of that prohibited
by the absolute restrictions, three considerations are

 

*Note added in reprint, 1958: This assay was
subsequently prohibited by the Home Ofﬁce.

4

 




relevant. First, there is the assessment of its prospective
scientiﬁc value, which grows increasingly difﬁcult with
increasing specialization. For this and other reasons the
scientiﬁc qualiﬁcations of applicants for licences are
important, and it is generally agreed that these are gone
into by the inspectors with really great care. Since ﬁve
inspectors have to deal with 3,44 5 licensees in 466 places,
a heavy responsibility rests on the sponsor who recom—
mends an applicant; but licences are certainly not granted
without conscientious discrimination.

The second consideration is one which at present is
not ofﬁcially recognized. It arises out of the fact, already
noticed, that no system of control can be effective without
the goodwill of the licensees themselves. If, therefore,
a licensee is not a strictly humane person the system
will fail in respect of him, but no inquiry is at present
made into the moral character of applicants for licences.
A relevant fact is that while it is easy to discipline a
licensee who has inadvertently made some formal slip,
such as furnishing certiﬁcate E when he ought to have
furnished EE, it is much more difﬁcult to check a man
who has carelessly allowed a rat to recover prematurely
from an anaesthetic. Of course, most licensees happen.
to be humane; but it does not seem right that while a
candidate for the Civil Service has to show an appropriate
moral record, the humaneness of a licensee should be
left to chance.

There remains this third and very difﬁcult considerae
tion: What amount of discomfort or suffering is
admissible in any given case, regard being had to the
importance of the results expected from the experiment
in view? We have noticed a similar difﬁculty already
in the case of the pain rule. At present the Home Ofﬁce
refers any new and dubious procedure to the Advisory
Committee, and in this way a body of precedents is built
up, much as common law and case law are built up from
the decisions of judges. But there is this difference, that
common law and case law are open to discussion in the
legal Press and by the Bar. They are subject to the
healthy inﬂuence of expert public opinion. But, unlike
the judiciary, the Home. Ofﬁce is in the position of a
benevolent Star Chamber overwhelmed with business.
The only solution hitherto proposed is that experimental
procedures should be classiﬁed into a small number of
grades according to their severity, and licences be corre—
spondingly graded and granted with appropriately graded
discrimination. The grades could not be rigorously
deﬁned by genus and differentia. The method of
indicating them would have to be that adopted in the
British law on charities: that is to say, for each grade
there would have to be a certain number of type
procedures or precedents, other procedures being classiﬁed
by analogy with them. The precedents would, of course,

5

be open to continuous review in the light of humane
scientiﬁc opinion. This proposal has aroused some keen
hostility, but with the lapse of time further considera—
tion may perhaps show it to be a logical development
of the existing practice; one which might in Great Britain
be adopted by administrative action, and in foreign
countries be embodied in that legislation which is long
overdue in almost all of them.

Need for Discussion

The question where the line ought to be drawn between
the claims of science and those of laboratory animals is
an excessively difﬁcult one about which normal decent
people disagree. The only means for arriving at an
ideally just solution is frank discussion among humane
men of science. But here a real diﬁﬁculty arises.
Anything which may be said in such a discussion is
liable to be seized upon, torn from its context, mis—
understood and distorted by controversialists who will
make an unscrupulous use of it for their own purposes.
This fact, and the. resentment felt by men of science at
the calumnies to which they have been subjected, are
obstacles to frank discussion; but they are obstacles which
must be over—ridden because obscurantism is an intoler—
able evil. Moreover, anti-vivisectionist attacks on science
are greatly helped by the suspicion that men of science
cannot care much about avoiding cruelty since so few
of them ever mention the subject except in self—defence.

At all events, here are excessively difﬁcult ethical
problems that deserve an increasingly complete solution,
and in view of their technical character nobody except
humane men of science can solve them.

 

HUMANE TECHNIQUE IN THE LABORATORY
(report of the UF AW Symposium, 1.958)
Published as V01. 6 of the L.A.B. Collected
Papers by
T Hli LABORATORY ANIMALs BUREAU
M.R.C. Laboratories
Holly Hill, London, N.W.3
Price 105.

Also obtainable from U F A W

 

 

Humane scientists are invited to join
UFAW

(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)

7A Lamb’s Conduit Passage, London, W.C.I
‘ (CHA 9221)

 

 

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Courier Co. Ltd., Tunbridgc Wells

 




Reprinted from THE LANCET, February 22, 1958, pp. 424-426

 

SOLDIERS AND LABORATORY ANIMALS *
An analogy for experimental biologists
MAJOR C. W. HUME
M.C., B.Sc.Lond.

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF UFAw (THE UNIVERSITIES FEDERATION FOR
ANIMAL WELFARE)

AT the time of the battle of Paschendaele there was
current a story about a general who earned for himself
the nickname of “ Plenty-more-men ”. It was said that
on one occasion a staff ofﬁcer remonstrated against the
reckless way in which he was squandering his reserves,
but got the reply “ Oh, there are plenty more men, plenty
more men.” Whether this story is true or not, we can
all think of some biologist or other who deserves the
nickname “ Plenty-more-animals ”; if not in our own
country, then in some foreign country where funds for
research are available en veux—tu en voila.

The analogy between a military commander who has
to send his troops into battle and an experimental biologist
who has, let us say, to ascertain an LD50 by some appro—
priate procedure is close enough to deserve consideration.

* * *

From the point of View of his superior ofﬁcer, a soldier
has two entirely different aspects, which I shall call
repectively his “ cold-blooded ” and his “ warm-
blooded ” aspects; and it is his superior’s duty to take
account of both. In his cold-blooded aspect the soldier
is a regimental number on the strength of a certain
battalion. When his battalion is sent into action he
automatically goes with it. The expected percentage of
casualties will have been estimated in preparing the plan
of battle; in other words, his chance of becoming a
casualty is a cold arithmetical factor in a statistical calcula-
tion. If he does become a casualty he is a detail to be
deducted from the ration strength of his unit and accounted
for in the parade state. That is his cold—blooded aspect.

A laboratory animal also has its cold-blooded aspect.
In this aspect it is just one of a sample of, say, ten, duly
numbered in the records of the animal-house; it is one
point on a regression line, one unit in a quantal response.
In evaluating the results of the experiment such details

 

*Introductory paper read at the UFAW symposium on Humane
Technique in the Laboratory. An abstract has already
appeared in the report of the symposium published as vol. 6
of the Collected Papers of the Laboratory Animals Bureau
of the Medical Research Council.

 




2

as its litter number, age, sex, genetic history, and physical
response to a given procedure are all that is usually taken
into account. The fact that it has a personality is of no
interest in this connection; the recorded data concerning
, it are similar in principle to those which are requisite in
relation to chemical samples or reagents, or to the charac-
teristics of thermionic valves in an experimental apparatus.

So much for the cold-blooded aspect of soldiers and
laboratory animals. But each of these has a second aspect,
which I have called the “ warm-blooded ” aspect.

Let us take the soldier ﬁrst. It is a regimental ofﬁcer’s
duty to know his men and to look after their welfare. He
must inspect their billets and concern himself with their
comfort. He must keep an eye on their rations and make
a howl if these are unsatisfactory. He must arrange
recreation for them. He must even attend, if necessary,
to their private affairs, and do what he can for a man
whose child is dangerously ill or whose wife has eloped
with a stranger. This is the soldier’s warm—blooded
aspect, and an ofﬁcer who neglects it is being not only
inhuman but also technically incompetent, because
morale is of great technical importance and nothing is
more destructive of morale than indifference to the fact
that the men have human feelings as well as regimental
numbers. A divisional general cannot, it is true, know all
the men under his command, but even he will try to see
as much of them as he can and to understand their human
problems.

In the same way laboratory animals have a warm-
blooded aspect; even cold-blooded animals like xenopus
have one, metaphorically speaking. A competent biologist
will pay great attention to the housing, feeding, and health
of his stock, and he will manage them in such a way as
to avoid exposing them to any mental stress which is
avoidable; he must keep them happy as well as healthy.
Failure to do this is inhumane, but it is also inefﬁcient,
because healthy and contented stock are an asset in any
research, and the biologist who was indifferent to the
feelings of his animals would to that extent be technically
incompetent as well as callous. The analogy can be
pressed even further. In the same way that comradely
relations between higher and lower ranks in an army
are essential to good morale, so a friendly relation between
laboratory animals and laboratory staff keeps the animals
tame and so makes them easy to handle and free from
stress, besides rendering their short lives happy.

A good biologist will, then, pay much attention to this
warm-blooded aspect of the animals he uses, ﬁrst because
as a civilised being he will wish to behave in a humane
way; and secondly, though only secondly, because it pays

3

him to do so. Humane management of laboratory animals
makes for efﬁciency in research.
* * *

Leaving the animal-house, let us now turn to the
laboratory. Many years ago, the late Prof. E. S. Starling
expressed to me the opinion that a good deal of the
physiological research which was being done in a certain
foreign country was being vitiated because the physio-
logists concerned did not trouble to eliminate pain, and
so the secondary effects of pain were being confounded
with effects of other conditions which these workers were
trying to study.

Dr. W. M. S. Russell has conveniently classiﬁed under
three headings, which he calls the “ three Rs,” the
considerations which bear upon the warm-blooded aspect
of animals in the laboratory. These headings are replace-
ment, reduction, and reﬁnement; and we can apply our
military analogy to them.

Here is an example of replacement:

In the early days of the ﬁrst world war, every infantryman
carried a pair of pliers with which to cut the enemy wire by
hand, and in carrying out this operation the infantry were
mown down by machine-gun ﬁre. But later on, inanimate
high-explosive shells were substituted for these living wire-
-cutters, and wire-cutting by the guns was a normal phase in
every attack. The replacement section of the UFAW symposium
deals with the replacement of live animals by non-sentient
materials such as micro-organisms, tissue cultures, and even
electrical models in some cases.

For Russell’s second R, reduction, a military analogy
can be found in the clearing of mineﬁelds.

A man who served as a liaison oﬂicer with the Russians
assured me that he had seen a platoon of infantry marched
across a suspected mineﬁeld for the purpose of making it safe.
If this was regarded as an orthodox method the number of
personnel required must have been high and the casualty-rate
must have been heavy. In any event, the use of mine-detectors
makes possible a great reduction in the number of personnel.

Ways of reducing the number of animals required for
a given degree of precision include the methodological
design of experiments and the control of variance by
means of applied genetics and by paying attention to
speciﬁc environmental factors.

Dr. Russell’s third R is reﬁnement of techniques for
the purpose of reducing discomfort in cases in which
discomfort cannot be wholly avoided.

This reﬁnement of experimental techiques ﬁnds a military
analogy partly in the steps for preventing casualties (the
provision of steel helmets and respirators, for instance), and
partly in the ﬁeld medical services—stretcher-bearers, regi-
mental aid posts, ﬁeld ambulances, casualty-clearing stations,
and military hospitals. These are concerned not only with the

 




4

technical advantage of preventing casualties and getting lightly
wounded men back into the line again; they are also concerned
with the humanitarian purpose of easing the sufferings of men
who are so severely wounded that they will never ﬁght again.
This care for the severely wounded and the dying, though
incidentally it has the technical advantage of improving morale,
is primarily a humanitarian activity. In the laboratory there.
may be cases in which no technical advantage is got by obviat-
ing pain in an experiment, no error introduced by allowing a
rat or a rabbit to recover prematurely from an anaesthetic; but
nevertheless the moral obligation to conduct research with a
minimum of pain, fear, and stress is a binding one.
* >l= *

Believing this military analogy to be genuinely relevant,
I will add one ﬁnal point. No military commander is
entitled to subject his men to risks and sufferings which
he himself would not be prepared to endure if, mutatis
mutandis, circumstances required him to do so. I say
“ mutatis mutandis ”, and in particular let us, in the:
laboratory analogue, leave aside the risk of death, because
this is irrelevant when one is going to compare animals.
with human beings; let us consider only exposure to pain,
discomfort, or stress. We may bear in mind also that.
circumstances do not ordinarily require a divisional
commander to expose himself to the same risks as the
front-line troops, however often he may have done so in
his younger days; his duty is now different from theirs.
But in principle he ought to be ready to face anything
he calls upon them to face. If we turn now the biologist,
we may say that only in rather exceptional cases can he
usefully subject himself to experimental procedures in
the laboratory, though a number of research-workers
have done this from time to time. On the other hand, he
may usefully ask himself whether, if he were this or that
experimental animal, he would be willing to make volun-
tarily the sacriﬁce which he is calling on the animal to:
make, for the sake of the purpose for which the experi--
ment is to be performed; apart always from any question
of life and death, and account being taken only of any
pain, discomfort, or stress that may be entailed.

Reprinted, by kind permission of the Editor of the Lancet,
and distributed to research workers gratis by

opw

(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)
7A LAMB’s CONDUIT PASSAGE,
LONDON, W.C.1.

Courier Co. Ltd., Tunbridge Wells.

 

 




