SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

June 9, 1960

The Editor
The Salisbury Post
Salisbury, N.C.

Dear Sir:

Representative Martha Griffiths (D., Mich.)
todayintroduced in the United States House of
Representatives H.R. 12587, a companion bill to
Senator John Sherman Cooper's (R., Ky.) 8.3570
for the humane treatment of laboratory animals.

This urgently needﬂ measure needs and
deserves the support of the SOUTHERN PINES PILOT.
We enclose copies of some editorials which have
recently appeared about it and earnestly hope
you may wish to publish an editorial in its favor.

 




I, J .
SOCIETY FORlANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEEGISLATION
at

745 FIFTH AVENUE

NEW YORK 22, NEW YORK

May 18, 1960

To Humanitarians:

For the first time in the history of our country, a practical measure to
prevent cruelty to laboratory animals has been proposed in the United States Senate.
The Hon. John Sherman Cooper, (R., Ky.) today introduced a bill to provide for the
humane treatment of animals used in experiments and tests by recipients of grants
from the United States and by agencies and instrumentalities of the United States
Government — the great majority of the millions of animals used each year. The
long-drawn-out suffering which many of these animals undergo needlessly can and
will be prevented if the bill is passed.

Senator Cooper is brave, humane and determined. The opposition to his
bill is fierce. All humanitarians are deeply indebted to him for facing, for the sake
of defenseless animals, the savage attacks to which he is certain to be subjected by
research extremists. The eleven Senators who are co-sponsors also deserve the
heartfelt thanks and praise of humane citizens. They are the Hon. E. L. Bartlett
(D., Alaska), Hon. Robert C. Byrd (D., W. Va.), Hon. Joseph S. Clark (D., Pa.), Hon.
Ernest Gruening (D., Alaska), Hon. Estes Kefauver (D., Tenn.), Hon. Mike Mansfield
(D., Mont.), Hon. Pat McNamara (D., Mich.), Hon.Wayne Morse (D., Oreg.), Hon.
William Proxmire (D., Wis.), Hon. Jennings Randolph (D., W. Va.), and Hon. Harrison
Williams, Jr. (D., N.J.). If one of the Senators from your state is among the sponsors,
please express appreciation to him for his courage and humaneness, for you may be
sure he is receiving attacks for daring to support this bill. If your Senator is not a
co-sponsor, please write him now and urge him to support FEE bill. Ask your frieﬁﬁs
to do the same. A list of Senators is enclosed for convenience. The number of the E11
is 5.3570.

 

 

The unnecessary suffering which can be prevented by this bill is vast. To take
a single example, the perpetual caging of the pathetic beagle dogs about which we
wrote on March 11th could not take place if this bill were law. The enclosed leaflet
answers questions about the bill in detail, and describes some of the abuses which
must be corrected. You are welcome to write for extra "free copies both of the_
leaflet and of this letter to give to your friends, neighbors and members of clubs
and churches. We must all bend every effort to obtain the widest possible support
for this measure.

 

 

REMEMBER, THE BILL WILL NOT HAMPER RESPONSIBLE RESEARCH.
It is not an anti—vivisection bill. In fact, it is Opposed not only by extremists on the
scientific side who want no effective regulation but by those anti-vivisectionists who
are unwilling to help animals in laboratories in any practical way for fear it might
interfere with their objective of abolishing all animal experimentation. Extremist
opposition must not be permitted to stOp this urgently needed humane measure.

YOUR LETTERS TO WASHINGTON ARE VITAL. A man of independent mind
and firm moral convictions is leading this battle. With strong public support he
will obtain enactment of this bill, for lack of which countless animals are suffering
bitterly and needlessly at this very moment. Please do your utmost to help.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans , Pre sident

Christine Stevens , Secretary- Treasurer

 




  

ALABAMA

ALASKA

ARIZONA

ARKANSAS

CALIFORNIA

CO LORADO

CONNEC TIC UT

DE LA WARE

F LORIDA

GEORGIA

HAWAII

IDAHO

ILLINOIS

INDIANA

IO WA

KANSAS

KENTUCKY

LOUISIANA

MAINE

MARY LAND

MASSACHUS E T TS

MICHIGAN

MINNESO TA

MISSISSIPPI

MISSOURI

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

u
I

,f

I UNITED STATES SENATORS r,

Lister Hill
John J. Sparkman

E. L. Bartlett
Ernest Gruening

Carl Hayden
Barry M. Goldwater

John L. McClellan
J. W. Fulbright

Thomas H. Kuchel
Clair Engle

Gordon Allott
John A. Carroll

Prescott Bush
Thomas J. Dodd

John J. Williams
J. Allen Frear, Jr.

Spessard L. Holland
George A. Smathers

Richard B. Russell
Herman E. Talrnadge

Hiram L. Fong
Oren E. Long

Henry C. Dworshak
Frank Church

Paul H. Douglas
Everett McKinley Dirksen

Homer E. Capehart
Vance Hartke

Bourke B. Hickenlooper
Thos. E. Martin

Andrew F. Schoeppel
Frank Carlson

John Sherman Cooper
Thruston B. Morton

Allen J. Ellender
Russell B. Long

Margaret Chase Smith
Edmund S. Muskie

John Marshall Butler
J. Glenn Beall

Leverett Saltonstall
John F. Kennedy

Pat McNamara
Philip A. Hart

Hubert H. Humphrey
Eugene J. McCarthy

James O. Eastland
John Stennis

Thomas C. Hennings, Jr.
Stuart Symington

MONTANA

NEBRASKA

NEVADA

NE W HAMPSHIRE

NEW JERSEY

NEW MEXICO

NEW YORK

NOR TH CARO LINA

NORTH DAKOTA

OHIO

OKLAHOMA

OREGON

P ENNSY LVANIA

RHO DE IS LAND

SOUTH CARO LINA

SOU TH DAKOTA

TENNESSEE

TEXAS

U TAH

VERMONT

VIRGINIA

WASHINGTON

WEST VIRGINIA

WISCONSIN

WYOMING

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED AT: Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C.
(Please save this list for future reference.)

    
   
      
     
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
    
    
   
    
    
   
   
   
  
  
 
    
   
    
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
     
   
   
    
   
   
    
    
   
    
   
     
    
   
   
    
   
  
    

James E. Murray
Mike Mansfield

Roman L. Hruska
Carl T. Curtis

Alan Bible
Howard W. Cannon

Styles Bridge s
Norris Cotton

Clifford P. Case
Harrison A. Williams, Jr.

Dennis Chavez
Clinton P. Anderson

Jacob K. Javits
Kenneth B. Keating

Sam'J. Ervin, Jr.
B. Everett Jordan

Milton R. Young
Clarence N. Brunsdale

Frank J. Lausche
Stephen M. Young

Robert S. Kerr
A.S. Mike Monroney

Wayne Morse
Hall S. Lusk

Joseph S. Clark
Hugh Scott

Theodore Francis Green
John O. Pastore

Olin D. Johnston
Strom Thurmond

Karl E. Mundt
Francis Case

E ste s Kefauver
Albert Gore

Lyndon B. Johnson
Ralph W. Yarborough

Wallace F. Bennett
Frank E. Moss

George D. Aiken
Winston L. Prouty

Harry Flood Byrd
A. Willis Robertson

Warren G. Magnuson
Henry M. Jackson

Jennings Randolph
Robert C. Byrd

Alexander Wiley
William Proxmire

Joseph C. O'Mahoney
Gale W. McGee

    




If you wish to receive information concerning the progress of this bill,

please let us know, and we will place your name on our mailing list to receive

our circular letters,

 




SCDCIIEZI“Y YF(DI{ [XDJIRAIXIJ I3I{C)IWE(37FIf)E3 IJEEC}IS];[X1TIC)DI

74.5 FIFTH AVENUE a NEW YORK 22, No Yo

~" 1"

1K
‘}

z ,.

1
I
/

Since issuing the enclosed circular, progress has been made towards providing
space and sunlight for the beagles now caged in the submbasement of the South Agricul-
ture Buildinga Commissioner George Pa Larrick testified before the Senate Appropriations
Committee3 requesting funds to build a separate laboratory in a rural area where the-
beagles can be housed in kennels with outside runways. Hearings were held May 5th before
this Committee3 at which humanitarians urged construction of roomy kennelse

Many members of the Senate and House of Representatives have expressed themselves
strongly in favor of giving the beagles reasonable space for exerciseo

However; until Congress has authorized the necessary building we must not relax our
effortso You are urged to write to your own Senators and Congressmen (you may obtain
their names from your local newspaper or political club). Address them at the Senate
Office Building? Washington 253 Dr Co or the House Office Building, Washington 25, D. C.

 




<5

SOCIETYlFOR ANIMALLPROTECTWVE LEGISLATION
74:5 FIFTH AVENUE - NEW YORK 22,, No Y.

Since issuing the enclosed circular, progress has been
made towards providing space and sunlight for the beagles now
caged in the sub-basement of the South Agriculture Building.
Commissioner George P. Larrick testified before the Senate

Appropriations Committee, requesting funds to build a separate
laboratory in a rural area where the beagles can be housed in
kennels with outside runways.

Many members of the Senate and House of Representatives
have expressed themselves strongly in favor of giving the beagles
reasonable space for exercise°

However, until Congress has authorized the necessary building
we must not relax our efforts but continue to write and ask friends
to write to Washington urging that perpetual caging of the beagles
be ended.

 




   
   

!
l
SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE --- NE‘WT YORK 22, N.Y.

 
    
   
 

March 11, 1960

  
 

Dear Humanitarian:

  
  

Your help is urgently needed to protect hundreds of friendly, affectionate
beagle dogs against cruelly close quarters.

   

 

 
 

Here is the situation: In the sub-basement of the South Agriculture Building
only a few blocks from the capitol in Washington, D.C., over two hundred dogs are
confined in all metal cages whose mesh floors are the only place for them to rest.
These dogs are never removed from the cages for the purpose of giving them exer~
cise. They spend from two to seven years in these cages in a room where daylight
never penetrates. The cages are 36" x 30" and it is pitiful to see some of the dogs
whirling round and round in a frantic attempt to compensate for natural motion.
When a visitor comes, the noise is deafening, for hOpe of release seldom dies among
these trusting animals. Only a few cower silently in the back of their cages. The
rest bark wildly, wagging their tails and begging the visitor to let them out,

 
     
   
   
   
   
    
    
 

These beagles are being used to test the new additives and food colors that
food manufacturers are using, or wish to use, in human food. The dogs eat food
into which measured quantities of the additive are mixed. In most cases, little or
no harm is done to the dog as a result of the test, but all of the dogs are suffering
from the cruel and unnecessary incarceration imp—JEEd on them for lack of decent
animal quarters,

 
         
    

 

  
  

Certain scientists who had allowed themselves to become callous to the
situation recommended that it be perpetuated in the prOposed $25,000,000 building
for the Food and Drug Administration now awaiting authorization by Congress.

The plans as originally drawn provided for the same perpetual caging in windowless
rooms. Fortunately, an alert and humane newspaperwoman, Ann Cottrell Free,
learned of the plight of the beagles and brought public attention to it. Representatives
of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, and of other humane organizations,
have since been seeking to obtain a change. Officials of the Food and Drug
Administration are anxious to provide comfortable quarters for their test dogs.

They are trying to improve the plans, but unless the Congress directs construction
of such quarters, authorizes them and appropriates funds for them, there is no way
to humanely house the many dogs of the Food and Drug Administration laboratories.

 
     
   
    
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

 

 

Humanitarians throughout the. nation should let the Congress know that they
will not tolerate this senseless and completely unnecessary cruelty.

Please WRITE TODAY to the Chairmen of the Committees considering the
building and to as many members of the committees as you can. ASK YOUR
FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS TO DO THE SAME. Please make it clear that you
want the new Food and Drug Administration building to include comfortable
kennel-runways for all the dogs, or, if necessary, to provide such accomodations
in a supplementary structure.

The men who can do most to ensure decent housing for the beagles are:

Senator Dennis Chavez, Chairman, Senate Public Works Committee, Congressman
Charles A, Buckley, Chairman, House Public Works Committee and Senator Lister
Hill, and Congressman John E. Fogarty, Subcommittee Chairmen of the Senate and
House Appropriations Committees under whose jurisdiction appropriations for the
Food and Drug Administration Buildings will come.

PLEASE URGE THEM TO DIRECT PROMPT CONSTRUCTION OF COMFORTABLE
QUARTERS FOR THESE DOGS.

    




Page 2

The names of the members of the Public Works Committees are listed below.
Please write to as many as you can, especially those from your own or nearby
states. If you could see and hear the—beagles in the sub-basement, no effort
would seem too great.

 

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary- Treasurer

SENATE PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE

 

Democrats

 

Senator Dennis Chavez, New Mexico
Senator Robert S. Kerr, Okla.
Senator Pat McNamara, Mich.
Senator Jennings Randolph, W. Va.
Senator Eugene J. McCarthy, Minn.
Senator Stephen M. Young, Ohio
Senator Edmund S. Muskie, Maine
Senator Ernest Gruening, Alaska
Senator Frank E. Moss, Utah
Senator Oren Long, Hawaii

Republicans

 

Senator Francis Case, S. Dak.
Senator Thomas E. Martin, Iowa
Senator John Sherman Cooper, Ky.
Senator Hugh Scott, Pa.

Senator Winston Prouty, Vt.
Senator Hiram Fong, Hawaii

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE?

 

Democrats

 

Hon. Charles A. Buckley, N.Y.
Hon. George H. Fallon, Md.
Hon. Clifford Davis, Tenn.
Hon. John A. Blatnik, Minn.
Hon. Robert E. Jones, Ala.
Hon. Frank E. Smith, Miss.
Hon. John C. Kluczynski, Ill.
Hon. T. Ashton Thompson, La.
Hon. Iris F. Blitch, Ga.

,Hon. James C. Wright Jr... Tex.
Hon. W. R. Hull Jr., Mo.

Hon. Kenneth J. Gray, Ill.
Hon. Frank M. Clark, Pa.
Hon. Ed Edmundson, Okla.
Hon. John J. McFall, Calif.
Hon. Charles H. Brown, Mo.
Hon. Gracie Pfost, Idaho

Hon. John Young, Tex.

Hon. Denver D. Hargis, Kans.
Hon. Frank W. Burke, Ky.
Hon. Harold T. Johnson, Calif.
Hon. Robert E. Cook, Ohio

Republicans

 

Hon. James C. Auchincloss, N.J.
Hon. Gordon H. Scherer, Ohio
Hon. Gardner R. Withrow, Wisc.
Hon. Wm. C. Cramer, Fla.

Hon. John F. Baldwin, Calif.
Hon. Fred Schwengel, Iowa

Hon. Edwin B. Dooley, N.Y.
Hon. Wm. S. Broomfield, Mich.
Hon. Howard W. Robison, N.Y.
Hon. Dean P. .Taylor, N.Y.

Hon. Walter M. Mumma, Pa.

ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED AT:

SENATE OFFICE BUILDING
WASHINGTON, D.C.

ALL CONGRESSMAN MAY BE ADDRESSED AT:

HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
WASHINGTON, D.C.

 




somE'rY FOR‘IANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue ~--- New York 22. N. Y.

Emmorandum and RecommendationS‘on FDA Test Beagles

Present Situation:0ver 200 beagles are housed in the subébasement of the South Agri-
culture building in windowless rooms. These dogs are on feeding tests to ascertaﬂnthe
safety or danger of colors and other additives to food. They are housed in all metal
cages 30"x 36" with mesh bottom floors. The tests last from 2 years to 7 years. Dur-
ing that period the dogs are never removed from their cages for the purpose of exer-
cise. This extreme confinement is cruel and unnecessary.

 

PCsition of the Food and Drug Administration:Administrative officials of the FDA have
repeatedly expressed their willingness to provide decent housing for the dogs, giving
them space for exercise, but the means to do so must be provided.

 

Plans for Federal Office Building #8:The proposed new FDA building (FOB #8) is await.
ing authorization by the Senate and House Committees on Public Worked This structure,
to cost over $25,000,000, was designed to house 450 beagles under the same bed condi—
tions as they now are in the sub‘basement (perpetual caging in windowless rooms).

 

Following strong protests from citizens in all parts of the country against this r
cruel incarceration of the dogs, tentative designs were drawn by the architects to
provide for a limited number of inside runways 3'x 10' in the building. The scien-
tist in charge of the dogs proposes that they be carried one by one from the cage
rooms to the runway rooms, placed individually in a runway for exercise, then carried
back again, the runways steam cleaned, and another series of dogs brought One to each
runway.

learly, thls method would‘be very wasteful of labor and very difficult to carry out
humanely for 450 animals; no one, whether his chief interest be scientific or humani—
tarian, could give it enthusiastic support. However, it is all that there is room to
do in FOB #8.

The housing of 450 dogs in a multi~story building in the center of a city is a very
dubious procedure, both from the humanitarian and economic aspects, for small cone
fined space in such a structure is much more custly than roomy animal quarters in a
simpler structure in a less congested area.

To spend tax funds humanely, wisely and fairly it is essential that a better solution
be reached,

A Better Planlehe proposed FOB #8 may take three years to complete. By that time,
the Food and Drug Administration will already have outgrown it, since this agency's
duties necessarily must keep up with the explosiVe increase in chemicals which may -
endanger the life and health of all consumers if they are not adequately controlled 3
and tested,

 

The space now allocated for the housing of dogs in cages could better be used for the
housing of smaller laboratory animals and for laboratory space which will be urgently
needed by 1963.

A separate structure should be authOrized at the same time that FOB #8 is authorized,
and the FDA should receive a Congressional directive to proceed immediately with
plans for it. It should provide roomy kennelwrunways for all long~term dogs consis»
tent with the high standards set in the animal hospital section of the National
Institutes of Health. where long~term dogs have inside kennels 3% x 8 and outsidemans
ways 15 feet long, or in the spacious kennels used for Atomic Energy Commission long~
term radiation studies on beagles in Davis, California. Laboratory space as needed
can be a part of the building or kennel area, so that the necessary scientific tests
and laboratory work can be carried out on the spot.

Such a structure should move forward with the greatest expedition consistent with i
sound planning in order to provide for the animals new imprOperly.hcused in the sub»
basement of the South. Agricul tore Building.

 




O O

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTEC TIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE ”. NEW YORK 22, NOY,

March 11, 1960

Dear Humanitarian:

Your help is urgently needed to protect hundreds. of friendly, affectionate
beagle dogs against cruelly close quarters, ‘ -

. Here is the situation: In the 'subnbasement of the South Agriculture Building
only a few blocks from the capitol in Washington, D,C,, over two hundred dogs are
confined in all metal cages whose mesh floors are the only place for them to rest,
These dogs are never removed from the cages for the purpose of giving them exer-
cise, They spend from two to seven years in these cages in a room where daylight
never penetrates. The cages are 36" x- 30" and it is pitiful to see some of the dogs
whirling round and round in a frantic attempt to compensate for natural motion.
When a visitor comes, the noiSe is deafening, for hOpe of release seldom dies among
these trusting animals, Only a few cower silently in the back of their cages, The
rest bark wildly, wagging their tails and begging the visitor to let them out,

These beagles are being used to test .the new additives and food colors that
food manufacturers are using, or wish to use, in human food, The dogs eat food
into which measured quantities of the additive are mixed, In most cases, little or
no harm is done to the dog as a result of the test, but all of the dogs are suffering
from the cruel and unnecessary incarceration imp—o—s_ed on. them for lack of decent
animal quarters,

 

Certain scientists who had allowed themselves to become callous to the

situation recommended that it be perpetuated in the prOposed $25,000,000 building
for the Food and Drug Administration now awaiting authorization by Congress.

The plans as originally drawn provided for the 'same perpetual caging in windowless
rooms. Fortunately, an alert and humane newspaperwoman, Ann Cottrell Free,
learned of the plight of the beagles and brought public attention to it, Representatives
of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, and of other humane organizations,
have since been seeking to obtain a change, Officials of the Food and Drug
Administration are anxious to provide comfortable quarters for their test dogs.
They are trying to improve the plans, but unless the Congress directs construction
of such quarters, authorizes them and appropriates funds for ﬁem, there is no way
to humanely house the many dogs of the Food and Drug Administration laboratories.

Humanitarians throughout the. nation should let the Congress know that they
will not tolerate this senseless and completely unnecessary cruelty,

Please WRITE TODAY to the Chairmen of the Committees considering the
building and to as many members of the committees as you can, ASK YOUR
FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS TO DO THE SAME° Please make it clear that you
want the new Food and Drug Administration building to include comfortable
kennel-runways for all the dogs, or, if necessary, to provide such accomodations
in a supplementary structure,

The men who can do most to ensure decent housing for the beagles are:

Senator Dennis Chavez, Chairman, Senate Public Works Committee, Congressman
Charles A, Buckley, Chairman, House Public Works Committee and Senator Lister
Hill, and Congressman John E, Fogarty, Subcommittee Chairmen of the Senate and
House ApprOpriations Committees under whose jurisdiction apprOpriations for the
Food and Drug Administration Buildings will come,

PLEASE URGE THEM TO DIRECT PROMPT CONSTRUCTION OF COMFORTABLE
QUARTERS FOR THESE DOGS,

 




. Page 2 .

The names of the members of the Public Works Committees are listed below.
Please write to as many as you can, especially those from your own or nearby
states. If you could see and hear the—beaglean the sub—basement, no effort
would seem too great.

 

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

SENATE PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE

 

Democrats Republicans

 

 

Senator Dennis Chavez, New Mexico Senator Francis Case, S. Dak.
Senator Robert S. Kerr, Okla. Senator Thomas E. Martin, Iowa
Senator Pat McNamara, Mich. Senator John Sherman C00per, Ky.
Senator Jennings Randolph, W. Va. Senator Hugh Scott, Pa.

Senator Eugene J. McCarthy, Minn. Senator Winston Prouty, Vt.
Senator Stephen M. Young, Ohio Senator Hiram Fong, Hawaii
Senator Edmund S. Muskie, Maine

Senator Ernest Gruening, Alaska

Senator Frank E. Moss, Utah

Senator Oren Long, Hawaii

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE

 

Democrats Republicans

 

 

Hon. Charles A. Buckley, N.Y. Hon. James C. Auchincloss, N.J.

Hon. George H. Fallon, Md. Hon. Gordon H. Scherer, Ohio

Hon. Clifford Davis, Tenn. Hon. Gardner R. Withrow, Wisc.

Hon. John A. Blatnik, Minn. Hon. Wm. C. Cramer, Fla.

Hon. Robert E. Jones, Ala. Hon. John F. Baldwin, Calif.

Hon. Frank E. Smith. Miss. Hon. Fred Schwengel, Iowa

Hon. John C. Kluczynski, Ill. , Hon. Edwin B. Dooley, N.Y. _

Hon. T. Ashton Thompson, La. Hon. Wm. S. Broomfield, Mich.

Hon. Iris F. Blitch, Ga. Hon. Howard W. Robison, N.Y.

,Hon. James C. Wright Jr., Tex. Hon. Dean P. .Taylor, N.Y.

Hon. W. R. Hull Jr., Mo. Hon. Walter M. Mumma, Pa.

Hon. Kenneth J. Gray, Ill.

Hon. Frank M. Clark, Pa° ‘

Hon. Ed Edmundson, Okla. ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED AT:
Hon. John J. McFall, Calif.

Hon. Charles H. Brown, Mo. SENATE OFFICE BUILDING

Hon. Gracie Pfost, Idaho WASHINGTON, D.C.

Hon. John Young, Tex.

Hon° Denver D. Hargis, Kans. ALL CONGRESSMAN MAY BE ADDRESSED AT:
Hon. Frank W. Burke, Ky.

Hon. Harold T. Johnson, Calif. HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
Hon. Robert E. Cook, Ohio WASHINGTON, D.C. '

 




‘l" ‘l’ ‘L“°“~L ‘174542

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue --- New York 22.. N. Y.

memorandum and Recommendations on FDA Test Beagles

Present Situation:0ver 200 beagles are housed in the sub-basement of the South Agri~
culture building in windowless rooms. These dogs are on feeding tests to ascertainthe
safety or danger of colors and other additives to food. They are housed in all metal
cages 30"x 36" with mesh bottom floors. The tests last from 2 years to 7 years” Dur~
ing that period the dogs are never removed from their cages for the purpose of exer—
cise. This extreme confinement is cruel and unnecessary.

 

Position-of the Food and Drug AdministrationzAdministrative officials of the FDA have
repeatedly expressed their willingness to provide decent housing for the dogs, giving
them space for exercise, but the means to do so must be provided.

Plans for Federal Office Building #8:The proposed new FDA building (FOB #8) is awaito
ing authorization by the Senate and House Committees on Public Worksa This structure,
to cost over $25,000,000, was designed to house 450 beagles under the same bed condi~
tions as they now are in the subrbasement (perpetual caging in windowless rooms).

Following strong protests from citizens in all parts of the country against this r
cruel incarceration of the dogs, tentative designs were drawn by the architects to
provide for a limited number of inside runways 3’x 10‘ in the building. The scien~
tist in charge of the dogs proposes that they be carried one by one from the cage
rooms to the runway rooms, placed individually in a runway for exercise, then carried
back again, the runways steam cleaned, and another series of dogs brought one to each
runway.

learly, this method would be very wasteful of labor and very difficult to carry out
humanely for 450 animals; no one, whether his chief interest be scientific or humani—
tarian, could give it enthusiastic support. However, it is all that there is room.to
do in FOB #8.

The housing of 450 dogs in a multiwstory building in the center of a city is a very
dubious procedure, both from the humanitarian and economic aspects, for small con»
fined space in such a structure is much more costly than roomy animal quarters in a
simpler structure in a less congested area;

To spend tax funds humanely, wisely and fairly it is essential that a better solution
be reached.

A Better Plan: The proposed FOB #8 may take three years to complete. By that time,
the Food and Drug Administration will already have outgrown it, since this agency's
duties necessarily must keep up with the explosive increase in chemicals which may
endanger the life and health of all consumers if they are not adequately controlled 3
and tested.

 

The space now allocated for the housing of dogs in cages could better be used for the
housing of smaller laboratory animals and for laboratory space which will be urgently
needed by 19639

A separate structure should be authorized at the same thme that FOB #8 is authorized,
and the FDA should receive a Congressional directive to proceed immediately with
plans for it. It should provide roomy kennelwrunways for all loug~term dogs consis~
tent with the high standards set in the animal hospital section of the National
Institutes of Health~ where long~term dogs have inside kennels 3% x 8 and outsidemsus
ways 15 feet long, or in the spacious kennels used for Atomic Energy Commission long~
term radiation studies on beagles in Davis, California. Laboratory space as needed
can be a part of the building or kennel area, so that the necessary scientific testS‘
and laboratory work can be carried out on the spot.

Such a structure should move forward with the greatest expedition consistent with
sound planning in order to provide for the animals now improperly.housed in the sub~
basement of the South. Agriculture Building.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE - NEW YORK 22, N.Y.

February 19, 1960

To Humanitarians:

The time has come to pass effective humane slaughter legislation in New York State.
Five states have already acted; the big packers are moving rapidly towards 100% humane
slaughter in order to comply with the July deadline of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act:
only the small and medium sized packers who have no government contracts are left a
free hand to slaughter inhumanely if they please. To protect the animals they slaughter,
it is necessary to prohibit inhumane slaughter by state law. Four New York State leg-
islators have introduced bills for this purpose, and it is vital that hearings be promptly
scheduled on them if action is to be taken before the legislature adjourns.

You can help by writing to the Chairman of the Senate Agricultural Committee, the
Hon. Gilbert T. Seelye and the Chairman of the Assembly Agriculture Committee, the
Hon. Paul L. Talbot, urging them to schedule hearings and to take prompt favorable
action on compulsory humane slaughter legislation. After you have written to the
Committee Chairmen, please write to as many members of the Committees as you can,
and ask your friends and neighbors to do the same.

The following bills would effectively protect all animals in New York State against
painful slaughter and pre-slaughter handling:

Int. 405 by Senator William T. Conklin, and its companion bill

Int. 3146 by Assemblyman Luigi Marano

Int. 1159 by Senator George R. Metcalf, and its companion bill

Int. 3491 by Assemblyman Anthony P. Savarese

Two other bills declaring it to be the policy of the State of New York that slaughter
be carried out by humane methods, and authorizing the Commissioner of Agriculture to
make regulations to effect this, were introduced by Senator Cooke and Assemblyman
Conway, as companion bills. However, they contain no prohibition against inhumane
slaughter, and provide far less protection for animals than the bills listed above, which
are either identical with or similar to the uniform state humane slaughter bill approved

by the Council of State Governments, the American Humane Association, The Humane
Society of the United States, and the Society for Animal Protective Legislation.

Your efforts in writing to the Chairmen and members of the two Agriculture Com-
mittees and to your Senators and Assemblymen will be of major value in obtaining the
necessary protection for all animals in New York State slaughterhouses.

TIME IS SHORT, SO PLEASE DON'T DELAY.
Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary- Treasurer

The Assembly Agriculture Committee
Honi— Paul L Talbot, Chairman
Wilson C. Van Duzer

Orin S. Wilcox

John E. Johnson

Jerry W. Black

William J. Reid

Willard C. Drumm

The Senate Agriculture Committee
Senator Gilbert T. Seelye, Chairman
" George H. Pierce

" . Austin W. Erwin "
" Ernest I. Hatfield "
" Henry A. Wise

" Walter Van Wiggeren

” Walter E. Cooke

" J.H. Bridges

H

Robert C. McEwen
E. Ogden Bush
Albert Berkowitz
Janet Hill Gordon (Mrs.)
Owen M. Begley
Irving Mosberg
Jack E. Bronston
Frank J. Glinsky
ex officio

Edwyn E. Mason
Harold R. Tyler
William Sadler
Philip R. Chase
Russell Selkirk
Dwight N. Dudo
D.M. Kelly
Francis J. Souhan

Senator Walter J. Mahoney
Senator Joseph Zaretski

ALL MAY BE ADDRESSED AT THE CAPITOL BUILDING, ALBANY, N.Y.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE - NEW YORK 22, N.Y.

February 19, 1960
To Humanitarians:

Dogs tied out of doors without shelter in all kinds of weather, live
stock in Open fields without so much as a lean-to for protection against the
elements, have no recourse under New York State law, Most Northern States
provide in their anti-cruelty laws for prosection of those who fail to provide
their animals with preper food, drink or shelter. New York State law omits
provision for shelter.

Two bills are now pending before the Codes Committees of the New
York State Senate and Assembly to amend the state antimcruelty law to include

the word "shelter".

Letters are needed to the Committee Chairmen: the Hon. John H.

 

Hughes, Chairman, Senate Committe on Codes, and the Hon. Julius Volker,
Chairman, Assembly Committee on Codes, asking them to report these bills
favorably out of their Committees for a vote by the legislature.

Please write too, and urge your friends to write to your own Senator
and Assemblyman asking them to support this longnoverdue legislation,
Int, 2976 by Senator Hatch and Int, 3844 by Assemblyman Conwayo

 

The States of Vermont, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
New Jersey, New Hampshire, Maine, Michigan, Oklahoma, Indiana, Missouri,
South Dakota, Wisconsin, Wyoming, Iowa, Kansas, Idaho, Minnesota, California
and Arizona have such laws, Why not New York?
Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans , Pre sident

Christine Stevens , Secretary- Treasurer

ALL SENATORS AND ASSEMBLYMEN MAY BE ADDRESSED AT THE
CAPITOL BUILDING, ALBANY, NEW YORK

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE .., NEW YORK 22, N.Y.

February 19, 1960
To Michigan Humanitarians:

Two good humane slaughter bills have been introduced in the
Michigan State Senate, They are S,B. 1098, introduced by Senators
Green and Nichols, and S.B. 1182, introduced by Senator Dzendzel.
With your active support, they can be passed and the animals now
being subjected to needless agony can be protected.

PLEASE WRITE TODAY TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, the Hon. Harry Litowich, urging
him to schedule hearings promptly and to support favorable action on

the measures. Then, please write to your own StateSenator and to

 

as many of the members of the Committee as you can, Their names

 

are listed below.
Tell your friends and neighbors, and the members of your church

or club, about the great need for passage of a humane slaughter law

in Michigan, Ask them, too, to write to Lansing urging immediate

action on the bills.

Your letters written today will save terror and pain for countless
helpless lambs and calves, cattle, pigs and sheep which must end their
lives in slaughterhouses, PLEASE DON’T DELAY?

Sincerely,
Madeleine Bemelmans, President

Christine Stevens , Secretary-a Treasurer

Senate Agriculture Committee:

Hon. Harry Litowich, Chairman Hon. Arthur A, Dehmel
Hon. Charles T. Prescott Hon. William E. Miron
Hon. Charles R. Feenstra'

 




Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

August 26, 1959

To Humanitarians:

Good news from Washington: the United States Senate has voted to
protect the wild horses and burrOs, Yesterday afternoon, H,R, 2725, passed
by the House of Representatives on August 17th, received Senate approval,
All that remains to make it law is the Presidential signature,

The effective leadership of Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana
deserves high praise from all humane citizens, Grateful thanks are due, too,
to the Senate cowsponsors of the bill, Senators Prescott Bush, Howard W,
Cannon, John Sherman COOper, Paul H, Douglas, James E, Murray, and
Richard L, Neuberger,

Congressman Walter Baring of Nevada, originator of the legislam
tion, introduced the bill last year and again this year in the House of Repre-
sentatives and led the campaign for its passage in the House, Congressman
Thomas J, Lane, Chairman of the subcommittee which held hearings, and
Congressman Emanuel Celler, Chairman of the full Judiciary Committee,
gave excellent support, If you would like to express your thanks to one or
more of these humane Senators and Representatives who have done so much
to prevent cruelty to defenseless animals, it would be appreciated and well
deserved,

Your efforts on behalf of the wild horses and burros have played
a great part, as they should in a democracy, in ending the atrocious cruelty
inflicted for years on these animals because there was no Federal law to stop
it, We wish to thank you for all that you have done, May we also request you
to let us know sometime at your convenience whether or not you wish to rem
main on our mailing list for information on animal protective legislation?
We are anxious to keep all interested people on the list but need to conserve
our limited funds and to augment them when possible in order to carry on the
work for legal protection of animals from unnecessary suffering,

With kind regards,
Sincerely,
Madeleine Bemelmans, President

Christine Stevens , Secretary» Treasurer

 




 

 

  

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK 22, N.Y.

August 18, 1959

To Humanitarians:

Yesterday, I—I,R, 2725 for the protection of wild horses
and burros was passed by unanimous consent by the United States
House of Representatives, Your letters have been of great value
in bringing the terrible plight of the animals to the attention of
Members of the House, and they responded wholeheartedly,

Now Senate action is necessary on the companion
bill, S, 2167, introduced by Senator Mansfield of Montana and co»
sponsored by Senators Bush, Cannon, COOper, Douglas, Murray
and Neuberger,

THERE IS NOT MUCH TIME LEFT BEFORE
CONGRESS ADJOURNS, SO PLEASE WRITE AND ASK YOUR
FRIENDS TO WRITE TODAY

 

1) To Senator James O. Eastland, Chairman of the Committee
on the Judiciary, Senate Office Building, Washington, D,C.

2) To each person‘s own two Senators. (See enclosed listing for
the full names of all Senators.)

We believe that Senator Eastland and the majority of
members of the Senate will favor this urgently needed humane
measure, but it is very important that they know how much you
and other good citizens want it to become law now, If Congress
should adjourn without acting on it, the wild horses and burros
could be expected to suffer especially cruel persection during
the Congressional recess,

 

Please beg the Senators to do everything possible to
make sure S, 2167 passes soon, The wild horses and burros can
be given the protection they so desperately need if we all work
together to help them.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Benielmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary— Treasurer

Illustrated leaflets about the wild horses continue to be available

 

free on request from the Society for Animal Protective Legislation,

  




SOCIETYVFOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE

NEW YORK 22, NEW YORK

July 28, 1959

To Humanitarians:

MajOr progress has been made toward enactment of H.R. 2725 for the protection
of wild horses and burros. The Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee,
before whom hearings were held on July 15th, voted a unanimously favorable report
on the bill. The next step that must be taken is action by the full Committee.

WONIT YOU PLEASE ‘WRITE OR WIRE CONGRESSMAN EMANUEL CELLER,
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE, TODAY, ASKING HIM TO DO
ALL IN HIS POWER TO OBTAIN PROMPT FAVORABLE ACTION BY THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE AND TO GET THE BILL ON THE CALENDAR SO IT CAN BE VOTED ON

 

 

 

SOON BY THE FULL HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. You may wish to tell him, too,
how much you appreciate his support of the measure and how urgent immediate action
is to protect the last of the wild horses. PLEASE ASK YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGH-
BORS AND MEMBERS OF CLUBS AND CHURCHES TO WHICH YOU BELONG TO
WRITE TOO.

 

The time until Congress adjourns is limited. Although we do not know how
long it will be till adjournment, it is vitally important that action on H.R. 2725
take place soon. If Opponents of the measure succeed in delaying the vote so the
bill does not pass before adjournment, many of the last remaining wild horses may
be subjected to the cruel motorized pursuit which Congressman Baring's bill would
outlaw. Many are likely to have been made into pet food before Congress reconvenes
next year. RR. 2725. MUST PASS NO‘W.

 

PLEASE ASK YOUR OWN CONGRESSMAN, TOO, TO SUPPORT H.R. 2725. If
you do not know his name, a telephone call to the office of your local newspaper, your
public library, or a political club will provide you with it. ALL CONGRESSMEN MAY
BE ADDRESSED AT: The House Office Building, Washington 25, D.C.

 

 

 

For free leaflets giving facts about the cruelty to wild horses and burros,
please write to us, and we will be glad to supply you with any number you require.
The excellent testimony presented by Mrs. Velma Johnston of Nevada, statements
by Membersof Congress, The Garden Clubs of America and humane organizations
will be printed and available from the Clerk of the Judiciary Committee if you wish
additional detailed information for future reference. BUT DON'T DELAY IN WRIT-
ING TO YOUR CONGRESSMAN AND TO CONGRESSMAN CELLER. IMMEDIATE
ACTION IS ESSENTIAL. .‘With the help of your good efforts, this cruelty will be
stopped forever.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary— Treasurer

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION

745 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

July 2, 1959
To Humanitarians:

Two pieces of good news for the protection of the wild horses:

1) Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana has introduced S. 2167 to outlaw the
pursuit of wild horses and burros on the Public Lands with motorized
equipment. The Senate bill is identical to Congressman Baring's bill
(H.R. 2725) in the House. Senators James E. Murray (D. Mont.), Richard
L. Neuberger (D. Oreg.), John S. COOper (R. Ky.) Prescott Bush (R. Conn.),
Paul H. Douglas (D. Ill.) and Howard W. Cannon (D. Nev.) are co-sponsors.

Congressman Emanuel Celler (D. N.Y.), Chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, who has promised to support the bill, has scheduled hearings

on July 15th before a Subcommittee headed by Congressman Thomas J. Lane
(D. Mass.) who will conduct the hearings.

One piece of bad news:

The Department of the Interior has asked for an amendment which would destroy
the bill's humane purpose. This amendment would allow the continuation of the
present cruel pursuit of the horses by planes and trucks, merely transferring
responsibility for this motorized persecution to government officials.

YOU CAN HELP DEFEAT THIS BAD AMENDMENT BY WRITING TODAY TO THE
MEMBERS OF THE SUBCOMMITTEE LISTED BELOW. Please let them know that you
want definite protection against cruelty to the horses and burros.

You have seen the pictures we sent you of the wild horses, terrorized by the planes
which swoop down on them in their retreats in the high mountains, fleeing till blood vessels
break and total exhaustion overcomes them, then dragged prone into the trucks. MOTORIZED
PURSUIT OF THE ANIMALS MUST BE UNCONDITIONALLY OUTLAWED.

These cruelly persecuted horses belong to all of us equally. Because they are not
the property of individuals but rather of our country, we have not only the right but the com-
pelling duty to put an end to the apppalling terror and pain and slow, agonizing death that has
been inflicted on so many of them.

PLEASE ASK YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS, TOO, TO WRITE TO THE CON-
GRESSMEN LISTED BELOW, URGING THEM TO GIVE A FAVORABLE REPORT ON H.R.
2725 WITH NO WEAKENING AMENDMENTS. LETTERS OR TELEG-RAMS SHOULD BE
SENT NOW.._THEY ARE VITALLY IMPOR I‘ANT IN PREVENTING CRUELTY TO OUR
LAST WILD HORSES.

 

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

Members of the Subcommittee before whom hearings on H.R. 2725 will be held, July 15, 1959:

 

Hon. Thomas J. Lane, Chairman (Mass.) Hon. George A. Kasem (Calif.)
Hon. Robert T. Ashmore (S.C.) Hon. Robert W. Kastenmeier (Wisc.)
Hon. William T. Cahill (N.J.) Hon. John V. Lindsay (N.Y.)
Hon. Harold D. Donohue (Mass.) Hon. Herman Toll (Pa.)
Hon. John E. Henderson (Ohio)

ALL MAY BE ADDRESSED AT THE HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON 25. D.C.

(If you need free leaflets to give your friends, showing photographs and describing the
suffering these animals undergo, please let us know, and we will send them to you.)

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL FRQTECTNE LEGlSLATlON
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

June 18, 1959

To Michigan Humanitarians:

Please let the members of the Agriculture Committee, whose
names are listed below, know how shocked you are that they allowed
the humane slaughter bill to be killed by secret ballot. Let your
own Representative and Senator know, too, how you feel about this
shameful committee action. You can obtain their names by calling
your local newspaper or library. They may all be addressed at the
Capitol, Lansing, Michigan.

The enclosed news release tells the story. Also enclosed are
some oftheaeditorials previously printed in favor of the bill.
Please ask your newspaper editor to write an editorial about the
cruel action of the Agriculture Committee."Tbe majority of its
members are responsible for perpetuating the terror and pain being
inflicted on animals in slaughterhouses throughout Michigan. The
bill must be passed at the next session of the legislature. Your
protest n23 will help make sure it passes early next year.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE MICHIGAN HOUSE OF REPRESENEATIVES

Hon. George A. Gillespie, Chairman Hon. Fred 0. Olsen
Hon. Andrew W. Cobb Hon. Josephine D. Hunsinger
Hon. Holly E. Hubbell Hon. Charles F. Raap
Hon. Edson V. Root, Jr. Hon. Einar E. Erlandsen
Hon. James P. Mielock Hon. William Romano

Hon. Raymond J. Apley, Jr.

 




 
     

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION June 17, 1959

745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

 

         
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
      
      
    
   
   
   
    
    
   

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
HUMANE SLAUGHTER BILL KILLED BY SECRET BALLOT

The Michigan State humane slaughter bill, H.B. 196, was killed
in the Agriculture Committee of the House of Representatives by a
secret ballot, the bill‘s main sponsor, Representative Josephine
D. Hunsinger of Detroit, said today. The secret vote was 7 against

and A for the bill which, if it had passed, would have insured that

 

all Michigan slaughterhouses follow humane standards similar to
those established by the Federal Government, under Public Law
85-765, for plants that have government contracts.

No meat packers appeared at either of the Committee hearings
on the subject to submit objections to the bill, although Committee
Chairman Gillespie announced that all opponents should come forth
and state their case ”or forever hold their peace”. Testimony pre—
sented at the hearings and mail to Lansing on the matter was over-
whelmingly in favor of the bill's passage. Outraged humanitarians
are asking: ”what happened?"

Failure of the bill to reach the House and Senate for a vote
leaves most Michigan slaughterers free to continue the routine
shackling of animals by one hind leg, sending them down the rail
in full consciousness, to have a knife thrust into their throat

and slowly bleed to death or (a method used for cattle) to seek to

fell them with repeated blows of a sledge-hammer.

# #'#




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812

NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

May 20, 1959

Only four packing plants in Michigan have federal meat inspection and can
be expected to adOpt humane slaughtering methods in accordance with P.L. 85—765,
the federal humane slaughter law signed by President Eisenhower last August. In
order to prevent gross cruelty in slaughterhouses which do not contract with the
federal government, state legislation like H.B.196, now pending before the Agriculture
Committee of the Michigan House of Representatives is necessary.

Your editorial support of this much needed bill would be of great value at this
time. A number of good editorials and reports have appeared, and copies of some of
them are reproduced on the enclosed sheet. H.B. 196 is printed on the back of the
sheet for your information.

The States of Washington, Minnesota and California have already passed similar
legislation this year. Michigan can and should continue its leadership in humanitarw
ianism as demonstrated on the national level with bi-partisan support by Senators
Potter and McNamara and sponsorship of bills in the House by Representative Griffiths
(D)(who introduced the first House bill) and Representative Broomfield (R).

The United States Department of Agriculture has promulgated clear and specific
regulations for the federal humane slaughter law. Approved methods include shooting
with ordinary firearms, or with mechanical stunners, or the use of carbon dioxide or
electricity to render animals unconscious. Small packers can comply by using firearms
they already own or by purchasing a mechanical stunner for $100 or $150. We will be
happy to supply you with any further information you may require concerning humane
slaughter methods.

We earnestly hOpe that you will publish an editorial calling for prompt enactment
of H.B. 196. It will be a true mark of advancing civilization if the unnecessary pain
and fear being inflicted on the animals that provide us with our food is prevented.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans , President

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECT NE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK 22, NEW YORK

To Michigan Humanitarians:

A second hearing on H,B. 196, the humane slaughter bill, was held by
the House Agriculture Committee, April let. The Chairman of the Committee, the
Hon. George Gillespie, had previously issued a statement to the press in which he
invited packers or others Opposed to the bill to come and testify or "forever hold
their peace". No one came forward to testify against the bill. Nevertheless, the
bill is still in committee. Some members of the Committee state they have had but
few letters in support of the bill. They appear reluctant to act upon it without a
demonstration of greater public demand.

IT IS UP TO ALL HUMANITARIANS IN MICHIGAN TO WRITE AND
TO ASK EVERY CONSCIENTIOUS CITIZEN OF HIS ACQUAINTANCE TO Vv' RITE
IMMEDIATELY TO EACH MEMBER OF THE AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE
STRONGLY URGING HIM TO SEND THE BILL TO THE HOUSE OF REPREo
SENTATIVES FOR A VOTE. PLEASE DON'T DELAY. THE LEGISLATURE WILL
NOT BE IN SESSION MUCH LONGER, .’~'.ND ACTION MUST COME SOON IF THE
BILL IS TO PASS, ' ' '

 

Please tell the members of the committee why it is so vital. that the bill
should become law. Tell them of the terrible suffering animals are unnecessarily
undergoing in packing houses. Make it clear that that's is no economic barrie_r to
this bill. Small packers can comply with its provisions eitherTJy shooting animals
with ordinary firearms or by purchasing a captive bolt pistol for approximately
one hundred dollars. Point out that all humane slaughter methods which would be
used are proven methods approved by the United States Department of Agriculture
which is administering the federal law requiring all packers who contract with the
national government to use humane methods. Passage of the bill can have nothing
but beneficial results for all concerned. Farmers and packers can ‘make more
money because humane slaughter cuts down injuries and bruises to animals resulting
in wasted meat, injuries to workmen and reduces the number of "dark enters" and
"stiff" cattle whose meat is hard to prepare and brings lower prices.

 

Make sure each member of the committee realizes how much you want
the hideous cruelty still tolerated in far too many Michigan slaughterhouses to be
stopped by law. Send your letters or wires to each committee member listed below.
all may be addressed at the House of Representatives, the Capital, Lansing, 7
Michigan. Please write now.

 

Sincerely,
Madeleine Bemelmans, President

Christine Stevens , Sec retary- Treasurer

COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE MICHIGAN HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Hon. George A. Gillespie, Chairman Hon. Fred 0. Olsen
Hon. Andrew W, Cobb Hon. Josephine D. Hunsinger
Hon. Holly E. Hubbell Hon. Charles F. Raap
Hon. Edson V. Root, Jr. Hon. Einar E. Erlandsen
Hon. James P, Mielock Hon. V. illiam Romano

Hon. Raymond J. Apley, Jr.

 




FACTS ABOUT CRUELTY TO WILD HORSES AND BURROS

WHAT IS BEING DONE TO WILD HORSES AND BURROS ON PUBLIC LANDS?

 

The photographs reproduced on the inside pages show some of the extreme
cruelty being inflicted on these animals which are driven by low-flying planes
from their retreats in the high mountains. They are shot, not to kill, but to
cause pain which will make them run frantically. Then, from Speeding trucks,
the animals are lassoed and forced to drag a heavy tire attached to the rope
until exhaustion puts an end to their terrified flight, and blood runs from
their nostrils. When the horse collapses, his legs are tied and he is dragged
into the truck. Frequently his hide is stripped from his side as he is dragged
over the boards. ‘Young colts may be left behind to starve to death after their
mothers' capture and injured horses left to die of their wounds if they cannot
be easily loaded into the trucks. "Nose-hobbling“ is one of the most revolting
practices which is sometimes associated with this traffic. This means slitting
the horses' nostrils with knives, then sticking baling wire through the slits

and twisting it tight so the horses can't get enough air to make a break for
freedom.

COULD STATE LEGISLATION STOP THIS CRUELTY?

No. State legislation.has already been passed in Nevada outlawing pursuit
of wild horses and burros with motorized equipment, but the state law is power-
less to stOp the continuance of these brutal practices on the 80% of Nevada.
which belongs to the United States Government. A similar situation exists in
other Western States.

WHO GETS THE HORSES?

 

Most of the horses captured in round-ups are sent to the canneries to be
made into pet food.

DOES THE AMERICAN PUBLIC WANT LEGISLATION TO PROTECT_THESE ANIMALS?

 

YES. Articles in Readers Digest (1957), True Magazine (1958), Our Dumb
Animals and others have brought the facts to the public. Humane organizations
throughout the nation are demanding prompt action on H.R. 2725, introduced by
the Hon. Walter S. Baring of Nevada (Congressman Baring introduced a similar
bill in the 85th Congress), and H.R. 4289, introduced by the Hon. Alvin E.
O'Konski of Wisconsin. many Congressmen report pressing public demand for the
immediate passage of the legislation.

ARE THERE ANY DELETERIOUS SIDE EFFECTS OF THIS LEGISLATION?

NO. The bills are straight-forward and simple. They would "prohibit the
use of aircraft or motor vehicles to hunt certain wild horses or burros on land
belonging to the United States". They would not prevent either capture or
killing by humane means.of the animals in question when this is really neces-
sary. They would effectively eliminate the unnecessary cruelty now disgracing
our nation's treatment of these symbolic animals of the old West.

 




 

Re-roped, the mus-
tang f i g h t s a
second losing bat-
tle until he is fi-
nally overwhelmed,
t h r o w n to the
ground and tied.

Hopeless battle against

man’s inhumanity, as

mustang rears and

plunges in an attempt
to free himself.

Courtesy of "Our Dumb
Animals" November, 1958

Murder

IF it be true that one picture is worth a thousand words, then

there are on these two pages eight thousand anguished words
of torture, cruelty, inhumanity, agony, crass commercialism and
outright murder.

The photographer has caught all of the nuances of the callous
hunting down by airplane and truck and eventual extermination of
the wild mustangs of the west, one of the natural heritages of our
country like the herds of bison, which luckily, now, are protected
by federal law.

Since we last publicized these cruel practices, something has
been done, but not nearly enough. In 1952 more than 50
Nevadans protested so vigorously these air roundups that an appli-
cation of a group of horsemeat hunters was denied. New Mexico,
Arizona and Colorado have taken some step-s to protect these
creatures, but the state of Idaho has done nothing along this line.
In Utah, any animal not branded after eighteen months of age
are the property of the counties they roam and it is a simple
matter for livestock interests to obtain permission to remove these
animals by outright killing or shipping to canning centers.

It also seems odd that the federal government, controlling
much of these lands makes absolutely no provision for the protec-
tion of wild horses which roam government preserves.

These pictures show the stark tragedy of one such hunt—of
the waiting men with trucks and equipment, of the herding by
plane and running down by truck, of the lassoing of a mustang,
of the dragging of the helpless creature into a truck and waterless
transportation to the rendering plant.

Only new legislation enacted on both state and federal levels
can save the musrang—otherwise they will become extinct. Your
voice must be heard in the halls of Congress.

Photographs by GUS BUNDY

Final defeat, as tire-

anchored horse, ex-

hausted and bleeding

from the nostrils, gives
up the fight.

 

D r a g g e d into
truck, these once
proud beasts begin
their waterless trip
to the rendering
plant and ignomin-
ious slaughter.

 




HOW MANY ANIMALS.ARE INVOLVED?

 

The Department of the Interior has estimated that no more than.20,000 of
the horses are left in the entire West. Since the war, in Nevada alone, some
100,000 horses have been butchered by these unspeakably cruel means.

HOW DO THOSE WHO KNOW THEM FEEL ABOUT THE LAST BANDS OF WILD HORSES?

 

,Here is a quotation from a letter from a Westerner who used to run
round—ups:

"In a corner of the rough, wild country in which I used to ride, there is
a band of about 70 wild mestengos left. They are typical of the old Spanish
Andalusian stock which was predominantly Arabian, or at least North African.
This band runs in box canyon country, some of the canyons being 800 deet deep.
The first drOp is often 400 or 500 feet straight down. In the bottom of these
canyons is good grass and water, although limited as you can imagine. These
horses come out of the ridges occasionally but at the first sign of danger,
head back into the canyons. No one will ever catch them using ordinary methods
but in these times of fast living, fast planes, and wacky peOple, a way may be
devised to catch them. One day we jumped a stallion and five of his mares
that had come out to investigate the racket made by the jeep. It was a
wonderful sight.

I would like to be instrumental in seeing that this little band is left
alone and also the few that are left here in the Owynhee mountains 100 miles
south of me. Do you have any suggestions as to how I should go about the
matter of having these two bands of wild horses protected, or at least left
alone?"

The nationwide movement to protect the horses has grown from the efforts
of mrs. velne Johnston of the Double Lazy Heart Ranch in,hadsworth, Nevada,and
of Nevada animal protective societies and humanitarians who have worked to-
gether as a result of first-hand eXperience.

IS THERE ANY REASON FOR DELAYING CONGRESSIONAL ACTION?

N0. To delay is equivalent to endorsing the atrocious practices now
being carried on. No normal person, unless he stands to gain personal profit
by it, could endorse such cruelty. The Congress is the only body that can

put an end to it. Every decent citizen who knows the facts looks to Congress
to act now.

Additional copies of this leaflet may be obtained by
writing to:

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New Yerk

 




Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

To Humanitarians:

The humane slaughter law, P.L. 85-765, is now well-established with
sound regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture (full details
are printed in the Federal Register, March 3, 1959, and may be obtained from
the Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C.) Your efforts made possible
the protection of hundreds of thousands of animals in slaughterhouses, and
you can feel truly proud of all you did.

Now your help is urgently needed to protect a much smaller number of
animals - smaller because the ruthless pursuit of these beautiful horses with
motorized equipment has reduced their numbers to the point which calls for
their immediate protection if they are not to become completely extinct.

The pictures on inside pages of this letter Show some of the horrible
cruelty inflicted on the mustangs, but they cannot show it all: the terrifying
swooping of the planes driving the bands of horses out of their retreats in
the high mountains and forcing them down into range of the expert rOpers who,
tied to the backs of speeding trucks, lasso the horses with rOpes attached to
rubber tires from which the horses fight to free themselves until exhaustion
overtakes them. Neither do they show the pathetic colts left behind to starve.
to death when their mothers are carted away, nor the wounded horses left to
die of their injuries, nor the so-called "nose-hObbling" which means slitting
the horses"nostrils with knives, then sticking baling wire through the slits
and twisting it tight so the horses can't get enough air to make a break for
freedom.

These horrors must be stopped. They can.be stOpped by enactment of
H.R. 2725 introduced by the Hon. Walter S. Baring of Nevada to prohibit the
use of "aircraft or motor vehicles to hunt, for the purpose of capturing or
killing, any wild, unbranded horse, mare, colt or burro running at large on
any of the public lands or ranges, or to pollute watering holes." The bill
is now pending before the Committee on the Judiciary of the United States
House of Representatives.

PLEASE WRITE IMMEDIATELY ANp AsK YOUR FRIENDS TO WRITE TO:

Hon. Emanuel Cellar, Chairman
Committee on the Judiciary
House Office Building
Washington, D.C.

ASK HIM TO DO ALL IN HIS POWER TO OBTAIN FAVORABLE REPORT FROM HIS COMMITTEE ON
H.R. 2725. THEN WRITE TO.AS MANY OTHER MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE AS YOU CAN.

BE SURE TO WRITE TO ANY IN YOUR OWN STATE. URGE THEM TO ACT NOW BEFORE IT IS
TOO LATE TO SAVE THE LAST MUSTANGS.

(Continued on page 4)

 




Re-roped, the mus-
tang f i g h t s a
second losing bat-
tle until he is fi-
nally overwhelmed,
t h r o w n to the
ground and tied.

Hopeless battle against

man’s inhumanity, as

mustang rears and

plunges in an attempt
to free himself.

Courtesy of "Our Dumb
Animals" November, 1958

F it be true that one picture is worth a thousand words, then

there are on these two pages eight thousand anguished words
of torture, cruelty, inhumanity, agony, crass commercialism and
outright murder.

The photographer has caught all of the nuances of the callous
hunting down by airplane and truck and eventual extermination of
the wild mustangs of the west, one of the natural heritages of our
country like the herds of bison, which luckily, now, are protected

by federal law.

Since we last publicized these cruel practices, something has
been done, but not nearly enough. In 1952 more than 50
N evadans protested so vigorously these air roundups that an appli-
cation of a group of horsemeat hunters was denied. New Mexico,
Arizona and Colorado have taken some steps to protect these
creatures, but the state of Idaho has done nothing along this line.
In Utah, any animal not branded after eighteen months of age
are the property of the counties they roam and it is a simple
matter for livestock interests to obtain permission to remove these
animals by outright killing or shipping to canning centers.

It also seems odd that the federal government, controlling
much of these lands makes absolutely no provision for the protec-

tion of wild horses which roam government preserves.

These pictures show the stark tragedy of one such hunt—of
the waiting men with trucks and equipment, of the herding by
plane and running down by truck, of the lassoing of a mustang,
of the dragging of the helpless creature into a truck and waterless
transportation to the rendering plant.

Only new legislation enacted on both state and federal levels
can save the mustang—otherwise they will become extinct. Your
voice must be heard in the halls of Congress.

Photographs by GUS BUNDY

Final defeat, as tire-

anchored horse, ex-

hausted and bleeding

from the nostrils, gives
up the fight.

D r a g g e d into
truck, these once
proud beasts begin
their waterless trip
to the rendering
plant and ignomin-
ious slaughter.

 




 

 

‘x

Some 100,000 were killed in Nevada alone since the war, mostly for
sale as horse-meat, and the Department of the Interior estimates that there
are no more than 20,000 wild horses left in the entire country. A local
observer reports: "It appears that operations have stepped up in order to
completely wipe out the bands of horses before passage of our legislation
will prohibit it." She tells of a recent round up and says of the horses:
"All were skinned up, terrified and beaten ... One little yearling colt had
a deep tear almost the whole area of his chest, and on the sixth day had
as yet received no treatment." Space does not permit description of all
the injuries and cruelties. PLEASE HELP STOP THEM NOW. The names of all
the Committeemen are listed below. All may be addressed at the HOuse Office
Building, Washington, D.C.

We will be glad to send you extra copies of this folder without
charge for distribution to your friends, to fellow members of church or club,
or to humanitarians of your acquaintance in other states.

THE WILD HORSES MMST BE SAVED FROM THE HORRIBLE CRUELTY THEY.ARE
NOW SUFFERING.AND FROM.THE EXTINCTION WHICH WILL BE THEIR FATE IF AMERICANS
DO NOT ACT PROMPTLY TO PROTECT THEM.

Sincerely,

madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

members 9§_Committee QQLthe Judiciary, United Statestouse g§_Representatives

Democrats Republicans

 

. Emanuel Cellar, Chairman (N.Y.) William M. McCulloch (Ohio)
. Francis E. Walter (Pa.) William E. Miller (N.Y.)
. Thomas J. Lane (Mass.) , Richard H. Poff (Va.)
. Nﬁchael A. Feighan (Ohio) William C. Cramer (Fla.)
. Frank Chelf (Ky.) . Arch A. Moore, Jr. (W.Va.)
Edwin E. Willis (La.) H. Allen Smith (Calif.)
Peter W. Rodino, Jr. (N.J.) George Meader (Mich.)
E. L. Forrester (0a.) . John E. Henderson (Ohio)
Byron G. Rogers (0010.) John V. Lindsay (N.Y.)
Harold D. Donohue (Mass.) William T. Cahill (N.J.)
'Jack Brooks (Texas) John H. Ray (N.Y.)
William M. Tuck (ve.) .
Robert T. Ashmore (5.0.)
John Dowdy (Texas)
Lester Holtzman (N.Y.)
Basil L. Whitener (N 0.)
Roland V. Libonati (111.)
J. Carlton Loser (Tenn.)
Herman Toll (Pa.)
Robert W. Kastenmeier (Wisc.)
George A. Kasem (Calif.)

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue .. 6th Floor
New York 22, New York

March 5, 1959
To Humanitarians in New York State:

A much-needed bill to amend the New York State anti-cruelty law, making it a
misdemeanor for owners of domestic animals to fail to provide them with adequate
shelter or protective cover from the weather, has been introduced in the Assembly
by the Hon° Ray 5. Ashbery, and in the Senate by the Hon. George R. Metcalf. These
bills are now pending before the Codes Committee of both Assembly and Senate.

We have received word from the Animal Emergency Club of Ithaca, at whose
request the bills were introduced, that letters are urgently needed to assure passage.

The anti-cruelty laws of Massachusetts, Michigan, Vermont, Oklahoma, New
Hampshire, Indiana, Rhode Island, California, New Jersey and others require that
animals be given proper food, drink and shelter, but the present New York State law
provides only for "necessary sustenance, food or drink". No mention is made of
shelter. As a result, it is extremely difficult to prevent such abuses as the chaining
of dogs in all kinds of weather without protection from the elements, and the keeping
of horses or other livestock without shelter throughout the winter.

Letters in support of these bills to amend Sec. 185 of the Penal Code, to include
the word "shelter", are urgently needed. They should be written to the chairman of
the Assembly and House Committees on Codes, who are listed below:

Hon. Julius Volker, Chairman, Committee on Codes, N.Y. State Assembly

Hon. John H. Hughes, Chairman, Committee on Codes, N.Y. State Senate

Both should be addressed at the State House, Albany, New York.
Sincerely,
Madeleine Bemelmans, President

Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

 




QUL.IIONS FROM SOME RECENT EDITORI
ON THE NEED FOR.EFFECTIVE HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION

THE LOUISVILLE (Ky.) COURIER JOURNAL, February 18, 195%, "The American who thinks
a_hightmare ci’needless agony is an alien problem is an American who has never
visited an abattoir in his own country. Here he will find a scene of cruel carnage
that will make his gorge rise with fury and shame...”

 

THE DALLAS (Texas) NEWS, February 6, 1958, "The humane slaughter measure now goes to
the Senate where earTy_approval should be given.... Requirement that animals be
rendered insensible to pain before being butchered is a reasonable and fair one.

The wonder is that so long and hard a fight has had to be made in Congress for it."

THE NEW YORK WORLD-TELEGRAM AND SUN, February 7, 1958, ” A step toward ending medieval
slaughtering practices in the meat-packing industry has been taken by the House....
Certainly this is an overdue reform. The meat-packing business is no frolic at best,
but there is no excuse for inflicting needless cruelty on animals. We hope the

Senate speedily concurs.”

THE CLEVELAND (Ohio) PLAIN DEALER, February 27,~l958, ”-A humane slaughter law is.
‘needed. We think the bill should be passed. It would make our breakfast bacon
taste a greal deal better."

 

THE SAN FRANCISCO (Calif.) EXAMINER, February 8, 1958, "Pending in Congress is
H.R. 8308, a measure that would require meat packers to follow humane methods
of slaughter after December 31, 1959.... The House has passed the measure, and
it has gone to the Senate Agriculture Committee. It deserves the support of
California's two Senators.”

THE HARTFORD (Conn.) COURANT, February 3, 1958, ”It is inconceivable that a majority
of this nation's representatives do not favor humane slaughtering by the meat
packers. The opposition is small but well organized and substantially financed. If
this minority group is successful in defeating humane slaughter bills this year, it

will be a dark day for the constitutional process intended to serve America's best
aspirations.”

THEgPITTSBURGH (Penna.) POST—GAZETTE, February 6, 1958, ”...the House passed
legislation providing that the Federal Government shall not buy meat which hasn't

been provided through humane slaughter methods. The Senate should promptly follow
suit.”

 

THE BOSTON (Mass.) HERALD,February 7, 1958, ”The new humane slaughter bill passed
by the House and sent to the United States Senate should mark the beginning of the
end of barbaric slaughterhouse practices.... Let's hope the Senate approves the
bill and allows the Secretary of Agriculture to invoke these methods which are
clean, swift, and the mark of a truly civilized society.” Reprinted in:

THE SHEFFIELD (Ala.) TRI-CITIES DAILY, February 14, 1958, and

THE GREELEY (Colo.) TRIBUNE, February 21, 1958.

THE MIAMI (Fla.) NEWS, January 7, 1958, "The bill should be passed without further
delay. Inhumane slaughter is contrary to American philosophy and tradition."

THE FORT WAYNE (1nd.) NEWS-SENTINEL, February, 1958, ”Despite the fact that a few
members of Congress elected to make the occasion one of unseemly facetiousness, the
Humane Slaughter Bill has passed in the House of Representatives. . . . ' clowning'
brought down some laughs but apparently no votes against the humane slaughter bill.
Indeed, it was immediately followed by 122-73 House rejection of a substitute
measure, setting up a commission 'to study' humane slaughter measures, prOposed by
the minority who Opposed the slaughter bill. The House struck down the proposed
substitute by a voice vote to enact the bill.”

 




THE MOBILE (Ala. ) REGISTER, February 10,1958,‘"The forces holding back and carrying on

a propaganda attack against the supporters of humane slaughter can be sure they are on
the losing side. In the end, their defeat is certain. The tide of public sentiment will
run stronger and stronger against them until the fight for humane slaughter is won!”

 

THE ALLENTOWN (Penna. ) CALL, February 17,1958, ”The slaughter of animals for meat continues
to roIlow a pattern that goes back to the cruelty of medieval days but very likely will be
ended in this country by the end of 1959..."

 

THE ‘NEWPORT ILJNS (Va. ) TIMES HERALD, February 1, 1958, “There' 8 good news for the many
people who have shuddered over accounts of cruelty to food animals slaughtered by some
nationally known firms. Reports from Washington are that the bill to require humane
methods of slaughter has won public support almost unparalleled.... There seems no good
reason whatever not to pass this legislation.”

 

 

THE GALVESTON (Texas) TRIBUNE, February 7, 1958, " A Society that condones brutality and
needless cruelty to animals dumb though they be, is to that extent a traitor to the
humane tradition most of us believe in." Reprinted in:

THE BUTTE? (Mont.) POST, February 14, 1958.

THE RAMSEY (N. J.) JOURNAL, February 13,1958, ”Human nutritional needs being what they
are, we must kill to live -- but there is no need to do it cruelly or wastefully."

 

THE FAIRMONT (W. Va.) WEST VIRGINIAN, February 6, 1958, "'Humane slaughter bill...
passed House this afternoon.’ That's really good news. Now if only the Senate
will follow through.”

 

 

THE SALEM (Ohio) FARM AND DAIRX, February 12, 1958, ”Opponents to the bill are claiming
that it will bring chaos to the slaughtering industry, because nobody has agreed what is
'humane.’ We hope this weak cry influences nobody. In the first place, they have until
the end of 1959 to get the program.started. In the second place, they should have been
warned by all the bills thequanaged to kill off in past years, that the issue had to

be faced some day.”

 

THE MEDFORD (Oregon) MAIL TRIBUNE, February 12,1958,"No one knows of course how the bill
will fare in the Senate. But 'insiders' in Washington are quoted as saying that 'Nobody
votes for cruelty.'”

 

 

THE PALO ALTO, (Calif. ) TIMES, February 11,1958, ”The great majority of packers, however,
still use old fashioned slaughtering processes that torture the animals, debase the people
who work with them, and sicken those who see or learn about them."

 

THE SOUTH BEND (Ind. ) TRIBUNE, Eebruary 17,1958, ”...The suffering on the killing floors
of the American slaughterhouses remains the foremost problem in the cruelty to animals area.
It will continue so unless a compulsory humane slaughter law is passed by Congress.

 

THE KNOXVILLE (Tenn. ) NEWS SENTINEL, February 24,1958,"Perhaps nevef before has
the U. S. Senate had an opportunity to end with one vote so much cruelty.

 

 

A.

THE WASHINGTON (D.C.) POST, March 19, 1958, ”...humanitarians for years have campaigned to
force civilized methods of slaughter on American meat packers. They have brought to light
senseless cruelties in the killing of livestock. They have jogged the consciences of their
countrymen into recollection that a decent concern for even the least of God's creatures

is a hallmark of humanity. ...these methods...shou1d be required by law in the United
States in order to bring this country' s practices into conformity with its civilized
pretensions and preachments.”

 

 




QUOTATIONS FROM SOME RECENT EDITORIAL!
ON THE NEED FOR EFFECTIVE HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION

THE NEW YORK TIMES, April 13, 1958, ”If you have beef, pork or lamb for dinner today you
may be interested to know that the animal from which it comes was very probably slaughtered
in a process so revoltingly brutal as to nauseate you if you stopped to think about it.
There is no good reason why the American people should put up with the kind of needless
cruelty practiced in most — though not all - of our slaughterhouses. ... A moderate humane
slaughter bill ... (H.R. 8308) recently passed the House ... Alternative measures to pro—
vide for additional 'study' of the situation are merely devices for delay and are entirely
unsatisfactory. The humane slaughter legislation ought to be reported and passed as is."

THE TIMES-PICAYUNE (New Orleans, La.), March 20, 1958, ”Humane slaughter has been advocated
for many years and a good many packers are already using anesthetizing gas or the mechani-
cal 'stunner' on parts of, or most of, their kill. Several countries have had the humane
practice law in effect for some time and apparently have found no reason to repeal it.

Under the circumstances it seems a little late to defer action on the bill for studies
that should have been made long ago.”

THE ST. LOUIS (Mo.) POST DISPATCH, April 1958, ”The slaughter legislation is based on the
assumption that animals should be made unconscious before they are killed. This is done
either by anesthesia or a captive bolt pistol. Several progressive American packing firms
have adopted one or the other of these relatively inexpensive methods, and humane slaughter
is the law in most European nations. So it is a surprise to see a lobby working against a
humane slaughter bill. The choice ought to be clear for the Senate.”

 

 

THE DETROIT (Mich) NEWS, April 12, 1958, ”A bill requiring that animals be rendered insen-
sible to pain before being butchered was sponsored in the House by Representative Griffiths
(D. Detroit) and was passed by that chamber. It has failed to clear the Senate Agriculture
Committee largely because of the-resistance of a meat packers lobby. Any further delay by
the Senate can only be a blow to our traditional humanitarianism and our professions of a
decent concern for the least of God's creatures.”

 

EEE_(San Antonio, Texas) LIGHT, and THE MILWAUKEE (Wis.) SENTINEL, April 7, 1958, ”The
Poage bill has passed the House; a companion bill by Sen. Hubert Humphrey is in the Senate;
these would prohibit cruelty to animals in American slaughterhouses by prescribing methods
of rendering meat animals quickly unconscious before they are killed. We urge Congress to
complete action on this civilized legislation this session.”

 

THE JACKSONVILLE (Fla.) JOURNAL, April 10, 1958, ”we Americans pride ourselves for being
leaders in this world yet we still allow our food animals to meet their fate in cruel and
needless pain." '

 

THE WASHINGTON (D.C.) POST, March 19, 1958, ”.... humanitarians for years have campaigned
to force civilized methods of slaughter on American meat packers. They have brought to
light senseless cruelties in the killing of livestock. They have jogged the consciences of
their countrymen into recollection that a decent Concern for even the least of God's crea-
tures is a hallmark of humanity. ...these methods ... should be required by law in the

United States in order to bring this country's practices into conformity with its civilized
pretensions and preachments.”

THE NEW YORK MIRROR, April 4, 1958, ”We're proud to have been one of the first newspapers

to espouse humane slaughter. We urge Congress to complete action on this civilized
legislation at this session.”

THE LOUISVILLE (Ky.) COURIER JOURNAL, February 18, 1958, "The American who thinks
eaﬁnightmare of needless agony is an alien problem is an American who has never
visited an abattoir in his own country. Here he will find a scene of cruel carnage.
that will make his gorge rise with fury and shame..."

THE DALLAS (Texas) NEWS, February 6, 1958, ”The humane slaughter measure now goes to
the Senate where early approval should be given.... Requirement that animals be
rendered insensible to pain before being butchered is a reasonable and fair one.

The wonder is that so long and hard a fight has had to be made in Congress for it."

THE NEW YORK WORLD-TELEGRAM.AND SUN, February 7, 1958, ” A step toward ending medieval
slaughtering practices in the meat-packing industry has been taken by the House....
Certainly this is an overdue reform. The meat-packing business is no frolic at best,
but there is no excuse for inflicting needless cruelty on animals. We hope the
'Senate speedily concurs.”

THE CLEVELAND (Ohio) PLAIN DEALER, February 27, 1958, " A humane slaughter law is
needed. We think the bill should be passed. It would make our breakfast bacon
taste a greal deal better."

THE SAN FRANCISCO (Calif.) EXAMINER, February 8, 1958, "Pending in Congress is
H.R. 8308, a measure that would require meat packers to follow humane methods
of slaughter after December 31, 1959.... The House has passed the measure, and
it has gone to the Senate Agriculture Committee. It deserves the support of
California's two Senators.” '

 




~~“

THE HARTFORD (Conn. ) COURANTerruary 3,1958,"It is inconcei 1e that a majority
of this nation' 8 representatives do not favor humane slaughtering by the meat
packers. The opposition is small but well organized and substantially financed. If
this minority group is successful in defeating humane slaughter bills this year, it
will be a dark day for the constitutional process intended to serve America's best
aspirations.”

THE PITTSBURGH (Penna.) POST-GAZETTE, February 6, 1958, "...the House passed
legislation providing that the Federal Government shall not buy meat which hasn't
been provided through humane slaughter methods. The Senate should promptly follow
suit.”

 

THE BOSTON (Mass.) HERALD,February 7, 1958, "The new humane slaughter bill passed
by the House and sent to the United States Senate should mark the beginning of the
end of barbaric slaughterhouse practices.... Let's hope the Senate approves the
bill and allows the Secretary of Agriculture to invoke these methods which are
clean, swift, and the mark of a truly civilized society.” Reprinted in:

THE SHEFFIELD (Ala.) TRI-CITIES DAILY, February 14, 1958, and '

THE GREELEY (Colo.) TRIBUNE, February 21, 1958.

 

 

 

.THE MIAMI (F1a.) NEWS, January 7, 1958, "The bill should be passed without further
‘delay. Inhumane slaughter is contrary to American philosophy and tradition."

THE FORT WAYNE (Ind.) NEWS-SENTINEL, February, 1958, "Despite the fact that a few.
members of Congress elected to make the occasion one of unseemly facetiousness, the
Humane Slaughter Bill has passed in the House of Representatives..."'clowning'..
brought down some laughs but apparently no votes against the humane slaughter bill.
Indeed, it was immediately followed by 122-73 House rejection of.a substitute
measure, setting up a commission 'to study' humane slaughter measures, proposed by
the minority who Opposed the slaughter bill. The House struck down the proposed
substitute by a voice vote to enact the bill."

THE MOBILE (Ala.) REGISTER, February 10, 1958, "The forces holding back and carrying on

a prepaganda attack against the supporters of humane slaughter can be sure they are on
the losing side. In the end, their defeat is certain. The tide of public sentiment will
run stronger and stronger against them until the fight for humane slaughter is won!”

THE ALLENTOWN (Penna. ) CALL, February 17,1958,”The slaughter of animals for meat continues
to follow a pattern that goes back to the cruelty of medieval days but very likely will be
ended in this country by the end of 1959..."

 

THEE NEWPORT NEWS (Va.) TIMES HERALD, February 1, 1958, ”There's good news for the many
peOpIe who have shuddered over accounts of cruelty to food animals slaughtered by some
nationally known firms. Reports from Washington are that the bill to require humane
methods of slaughter has won public support almost unparalleled.... There seems no good
reason whatever not to pass this legislation.” ‘

 

 

THE GALVESTON (Texas) TRIBUNE, February 7, 1958, ” A Society that condones brutality and
needless cruelty to animals dumb though they be, is to that extent a traitor to the
humane tradition most of us believe in.” Reprinted in: »

THE BUTTE? (Mont.) POST, February 14, 1958.

THE RAMSEY (N. J.) JOURNAL, February 13, 1958, ”Human nutritional needs being what they
are, we must kill to live -- but there is no need to do it cruelly or wastefully."

THE FAIRMDNT (W. Va.) WEST VIRGINIAN, February 6, 1958, "'Humane slaughter bill...
passed House this afternoon.’ That's really good news. Now if only the Senate
will follow through.”

 

THE SALEM (Ohio) FARM AND DAIRY, February 12, 1958, "Opponents to the bill are claiming
that it will bring chaos to the slaughtering industry, because nobody has agreed what is
'humane.'t We hope this weak cry influences nobody. In the first place, they have until
the end of 1959 to get the program started. In the second place, they should have been
warned by all the bills they managed to kill off in past years, that the issue had to
be faced some day. "

 

THE MEDFORD (Oregon) MAIL TRIBUNE, February 12, 1958, "No one knows of course how the bill
will fare in the Senate. But 'insiders' in Washington are quoted as saying that 'Nobody
votes for cruelty.'"

 

 

THE PALO ALTO, (Calif. ) TIMES, February 11,1958,"The great majority of packers, however,
still use old fashioned slaughtering processes that torture the animals, debase the people
who work with them, and sicken those who see or learn about them."

 

THE SOUTH BEND (1nd.) TRIBUNE, February 17, 1958, "...The suffering on the killing floors
of the American slaughterhouses remains the foremost problem in the cruelty to animals area.
It will continue so unless a compulsory humane slaughter law is passed by Congress.”

 

THE KNOXVILLE (Tenn.) NEWS SENTINEL, February 24, 1958, "Perhaps never before has
the U. S. Senate had an Opportunity to end with one vote so much cruelty."

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Ave. . New York 22, N. Y.

August 29, I958

To Humanitarians:

At last! The best possible news: the humane slaughter bill is the law!
President Eisenhower signed H.R. 8308 on August 27th. It was sent to him from the
House of Representatives August 14th after the House concurred in the Senate
amendments by unanimous consent. The slaughterhouses regulated by this law are
those which make contracts with the federal government. They slaughter over 90%
of all animals slaughtered - between 100,000,000 and 200,000,000 animals each year -
so the amount of unnecessary pain and fear which will be saved by this legislation
is unimaginably huge.

The men in Congress who worked and voted for this bill deserve our whole-
hearted support. This is election year for some of them, and if we can help our
friends we should do so by voting for them and, wherever possible, working for or
contributing to their campaigns. ‘

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, who introduced the first humane slaughter
bill in 1955 and brought the fight to a successful conclusion in the Senate last
month, is not up for election; however, the other Senator from.Minnesota, Edward J.
Thye, worked against the humane slaughter bill every inch of the way both in the
Agriculture Committee and on the Senate floor where he spoke against it at length,
voted for the delaying study bill, and then on the final vote when he could do
nothing more against the good bill, jumped on the bandwagon and voted for it. He
is up for election, and he should not return to the Senate. His opponent for the
Senate seat is Congressman Eugene J. McCarthy, a supporter of humane slaughter,
whose candidacy is endorsed by Senator Humphrey. If you can help his campaign,
please do. Senator Humphrey wants him to win.

Great credit is due to the two original co~sponsors of the humane
slaughter bill, Senator Richard L. Neuberger and Senator William Purtell. Senator
Purtell is up for election this year, and he deserves the support of humanitarians
in his campaign.

In our last circular letter we gave you the names of the 43 Senators who
made possible the passage of the good humane slaughter bill because they had the
conviction and courage to vote against the delaying study bill. (If you would like
an extra copy of this letter, we will be glad to send it to you.) Of these 43
good Senators, the following are up for election this year. Please hglp them win.
Senators Harry F. Byrd, Dennis Chavez, Henry M. Jackson, John F. Kennedy,

John O. Pastors, Charles E. Potter, William_g£9xmire, William Purtell, Chapman
Revercomb, Sguart §ymington, John Q. Williams. (Underlined are members of the
Agriculture Committee who also voted on the humane side in Committee.)

 

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue, New York 22, N.Y.

August 14, 1957

To Humanitarians:

A last great effort must be made to obtain favorable action in the
House of Representatives on H.R. 8308, the humane slaughter bill, before Con-
gress adjourns.

Here is what you can do to help - and please ask just as many other
friends and acquaintances as you can to help too.

1) Write to your Congressman again at the House Office Building,
Washington, D.C. (If you do not have his name, you can obtain it from your local
newspaper, library or political club.)

2) If he has promised to support H.R. 8308, thank him warmly and
ask him to request the Leadership of the House to bring it to a vote by the full
House of Representatives before adjournment.

3) If he has only promised “consideration” of the measure, ask him
again to vote for it and emphasize the following merits of H.R. 8308:

a) Will eliminate cruelty in the slaughter of the great majority of our
food animals. ‘

b) Guarantees complete freedom for all religious practices relating to
slaughter.

c) Protects workers in packing houses against physical injury and
against mental and moral suffering they now undergo because of inhumane
slaughtering systems still used by most packers.

d) Will not penalize any packer large or small, because it offers the
incentive of government contracts to humane packers rather than fining or
imprisoning inhumane ones.

4) Send the enclosed quotations from newspaper editorials to your
Congressman or to your newspaper editor. If you need additional copies, let
us know, and we will send them to you. Ask your editor to print an editorial
urging immediate enactment of H.R. 8308.

This is the time when the greatest volume of mail must reach
the House of Representatives in order to win a merciful death for the animals
that provide us with food. Please do all you can to help them.

 

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue New York 22, N.Y.

August 1, 1958

To Humanitarians:

.é.tremendous victory has been achieved against cruelty. After seven hours of
strenuous debate in which Senator Hubert H. Humphrey urged the cause of humane
slaughter with great brilliance and determination, the Senate, by a vote of 72 to
9, adopted the good humane slaughter bill, HR8308, passed by the House this
February. '

Opponents of the measure fouglt it every inch of the way. The powerful
American Meat Institute's most effective lobbyist was right there on the spot using
every means at his command to kill the bill.

Fortunately for the animals that give us food and fortunately for our nation's
moral stature and selfwrcspeot, the bill passed nevertheless. The Senate adopted

amendment against the advice of the leading proponentsn it was offered at the
last moment without consultation and'without known endorsement of any group, but it
applies only to a small proportion of slaughtering, it may be classed as a minor
amendment. The effective provisions of the bill remain unchanged.

No doubt you wish to know the names of the staunch 'riends of humane slaughter
who voted to protect animals frOm the beginning of the debate to the end. The first
test vote against the delaying study bill showed the following lineuup (a few
Senators were absent on official business)

m

.ggsﬁnst the study bill_§gg for the
‘ umane slaughter hgll: For the study bill:

. J» .

 

.Aiken Green Neuberger Allott Hayden Mundt

And rson Hennings Pastore Barrett Hickenlooper O'Mahoney

Bible Hill Potter Beall Hruska Russell

Bush Humphrey Prormire Bennett Ives Schoeppel'

Byrd Jackson Portall Bricker Javits Smathers
arlson Kefauver Revercomb Bridges Jenner Stennis

Carroll Kennedy 'Rohertson Butler Johnston,(S.C.) Thurmond

Case,(N.J.) Kerr Saltonstall Capehart Jordan Thye

Chavez Kuchel Smith,{Maine) Curtis Knowland Wiley

Church Long Smith,{N,J.) Dirksen Longer Young

Cooper Magnuson Sparkman Dworshsk Lausche

Cotton Mansfield Symtngton Eastland Malone

Douglas McNamara Williams Ellender Martin,(Iowa)

Flanders Morse Ervin Martin,(Pa.)

Fulbright Murray (total of 43) Goldwater Morton (total of 40)

Every one of the Senators who voted with us when the fight was the hardest
deserves our most sincere thanks, and if you find the name of a Senator from your
state among the fortyvthree, we hOpe that you and your friends will let him know
how very deeply you appreciate his firm stand in favor of humane slaughter, and if
he is up for election help him win. Before the conclusion of the debate, 29 more
Senators joined the first 43 in favor of effective humane slaughter legislation and
only 9 were left who voted against it.

It was the widespread public demand on the part of decent citizens and on the
part of the newspapers big and small throughout the country that caused this bill
to pass both the Senate and the House. You can take great pride in the part you
played in obtaining passage. All that remains to be done, after the House considers
the Senate amendments and an agreement is reached, is for the President to sign the
bill so that it becomes law. Would you write to President Eisenhower telling him
how much you look forward to his signing this vitally necesSary humane bill which

will prevent unnecessary cruelty to countless millions of animals in the coming
years?

Sincerely,

Madeline Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue

New York 22, New York

July 21, 1958

To Humanitarians:

A fight will be made on the Senate floor to pass good humane slaughter
legislation like that passed by the House of Representatives this February.
The friends of humane slaughter will offer an amendment to restore the effective
Sections of the bill which were removed by the Senate Agriculture Committee.

This humane amendment will be proposed by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey
(Minn.) with the following co-sponsors: Senator Frank Church (Idaho), Senator
Theodore Francis Green (R.I.), Senator Ralph E. Flanders (Vt.), Senator Thomas
C. Hennings (Mo.), Senator Lister Hill (Ala.), Senator John F. Kennedy (Mass.),
Senator Patrick V. McNamara (Mich.), Senator A. S. Mike Monroney (Okla.),
Senator Wayne Morse (Oreg.), Senator James E. Murray (Mont.), Senator Richard
L. Neuberger (Oreg.), Senator William.Proxmire (Wis.), Senator William A.
Purtell (COnn.), Senator Chapman Revercomb (W. Va.), Senator Leverett
Saltonstall (Mass.), Senator Margaret Chase Smith (Me.), Senator John J.
Sparkman (Ala.). I

If a Senator from your state is a co-sponsor, we hope you will write
expressing your appreciation and asking him to do all he can to obtain success
for the measure.

If the Senators from your state are not co-sponsors, please write them
now and ask your friends to write them.urging them to be sure to vote for
humane slaughter legislation_a§ passed by the House. If every Senator hears
from his constituents now, the good bill is almost certain to become law be-
fore Congress adjourns. We must make sure that the Senate knows that the
public, like the press, is Opposed to the delaying study bill reported by the
Agriculture Committee and in favor of the real humane slaughter bill. Enclosed
are a few of the editorials which have been appearing. There are many, many
more like them. ' "

Please ask your friends in other states to write their Senators too.
If you wish to have us send them literature, give us their addresses, and we
will be glad to do so.

PLEASE DON'T DELAY IN WRITING? TELL YOUR SENATORS HOW BADLY NEEDED
THE LEGISLATION IS. IT MUST PASS!

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

All Senators may be addressed: Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C.

 




SO!IETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISQ'ION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22, NEW YORK

Thank you very much for sending the names of people interested in stopping
cruelty to animals in slaughterhouses. We have sent them literature as you suggested,
and we hope all of them will write to the Senators from their states. Letters to
every Senator, particularly from his own constituents, are needed now to defeat the
”study” bill reported out by the Senate Agriculture Committee and to pass the compulsory
humane slaughter bill.

 

Some of our correspondents have asked us what the procedure will be. We are
informed that when the study bill reaches the floor of the Senate for debate, the
friends of honest, effective humane slaughter legislation will move to amend the study
bill, restoring the provisions of the good bill that passed the House in February.\
Every Senator should be urged to support this strengthening amendment. If it is
adopted, the measure will be sent to the President for his signature. If it becomes
law, it will protect more than 100,000,000 animals each year against horrible cruelty.

Here are comments from some current editorials showing what the press thinks
of the study bill:

The Washington Post (June 22, l958)_characterizes it as ”a cynical bill”, a
"dilatory and evasive measure,” and asks that the bill as passed by the House be
enacted instead.

The New York Mirror (June 23) ”The Senate should disregard this conscience-
salving substitute measure and pass the Humane Slaughter Bill without delay.”

The New York Daily News (June 20) ”We hope that the Senate will give the boot
to this heartless and hypocritical substitute measure and pass the House bill promptly.”

The Christian Science Monitor (June 21) ”We hope the Senate will substitute the
House bill for its committee's compromise and so move America further toward the ranks
of nations whose meat is produced humanely.‘i

The New York World Telegram and Sun (June 23) ”More study indeed! This issue
has just about been studied to death, as the Senate committee well knows. We hope
other Senators will reject this latest stall and insist that the House bill be put
before the Senate.”

If the editor of your local paper has published an editorial along this line,
please be sure to send a copy to each of your Senators. If your paper has not yet
carried such an editorial, please urge your editor to do so now.

Again, thanks for all that you are doing to pass the bill which will force the
packers to use humane methods. Please let us know if you need more literature. Your
continued active help is needed in order to get the legislation passed by the Senate
in the next few weeks before the adjournment of Congress.

With kind regards,
incer ,

Sec etary-Treasurer

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION

745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

June 19, 1958

To Humanitarians:

The Senate Agriculture Committee has again refused to let a decent humane
slaughter bill past its barrier. Men who vote to prevent our country from reaching
civilized standards long prevalent in our fellow democracies are not fit to sit in
the United States Senate. Keep this letter so that you will not forget their names.
Whenever you have an opportunity to help those who support effective humane
slaughter legislation, take it. Whenever you can help to defeat at the polls those
who oppose it, do that.

Senators Thye and Holland are up for election this year. Minnesota and Florida
humanitarians should campaign actively against them. Let everyone know that these
men voted for the hypocritical amendment directing still another “study” of humane
slaughtering methods which have been successfully used on millions of animals for
years and years. They prevented approval of effective humane slaughter legislation.

 

Senators Symington, Proxmire and Williams, all honorable men and true
friends of humane slaughter, are up for election too. Vote for them if you live in
their states. Support their campaigns. Ask your friends in Missouri, Wisconsin and
Delaware to do so. Following is the full listing of the Committee vote:

These men deliberately These men stood staunchly
killed effective legislation for honest humane slaughter
legislation

 

Sen. Allen J. Ellender (Dem., La.)

Sen. Olin D. Johnston (Dem., S.C.) .

Sen. Spessard L. Holland (Dem., Fla.) Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey (Dem. Minn.)
Sen. James O. Eastland (Dem. Miss.) Sen. Stuart Symington (Dem., Mo.)

Sen. Herman E. Talmadge (Dem., Ga.) Sen. William A. Proxmire (Dem., Wis.)
Sen. Milton R. Young (Rep., N.D.) Sen. George D. Aiken (Rep. , Vt.)

Sen. Edward J. Thye (Rep., Minn.) Sen. John J. Williams (Rep., Del.)

Sen. Bourke B. Hickenlooper (Rep., Iowa)

Sen. Karl E. Mundt (Rep., S.D.)

Sen. Andrew F. Schoeppel (Rep., Kan.)

THE FIGHT FOR HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION CAN STILL BE WON

THIS YEAR. IT DEPENDS ON YOU AND THE COUNTLESS OTHER AMERICANS WHO

FEEL AS YOU DO ABOUT UNNECESSARY CRUELTY.

PLEASE WRITE NOW, and urge everyone you can - friends, acquaintances,
members of your church, club or other organizations - to write both Senators from'
your state appealing to their decency and honor. Ask them to:

1) Vote against the amended humane slaughter bill reported out by the Agriculture
Committee. It is a humane slaughter bill in name only.

2) Vote for the measure as passed by the House when it is amended back to its
original form on the floor of the Senate.

There is a tremendous demand for this legislation. Please do all you can to
increase this demand. This is a major popular issue because it is a major moral
issue. Make sure your Senators know the facts.

If you need more literature, please let us know and we will be glad to send it
to you or to persons you designate. The enclosedvnews release is for the editor of
your newspaper. Please ask his help in bringing an end to slaughterhouse cruelty.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

 




FROM: Society for Animal Protective Legislation June 18, 1958
745 Fifth Avenue, New York 22, New York

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Swift, Armour, Cudahy, Wilson and other meat packers today won a round in
their fight against humane societies, the General Federation of Women's Clubs, and
religious groups such as the Board of Social and Economic Relations of the Methodist
Church, the Southern Baptist Convention, the National Council of Catholic Women, and
other citizens who are seeking to curb cruel slaughtering practices. The humane
slaughter bill had long been delayed in the Senate Agriculture Committee after '
passing the House of Representatives overwhelmingly this February. Senator Ellender,
Chairman of the Committee, obtained defeat of the humane measure by amending it into
the study bill which the meat packers wish to see enacted as a hedge against

effective legislation.

The bill met this same fate in the Committee in 1956. But the House Committee
on Agriculture investigated slaughterhouses in person, observed cruel methods in use
on most animals and practical humane methods in use in some plants. They sent an
effective bill (requiring the use of humane methods by all packers wishing to
contract with the government) to the House by a majority of 25 to 3, and it was
passed by voice vote. The Senate Committee did no slaughterhouse inspection. At
the recent hearings they even refused to see and hear a sound film graphically
depicting routine pig slaughter as inflicted on more than 80,000,000 pigs each year.
Then they passed a study bill, which would not protect even one animal, by a vote

of 10 to 5.

Humane slaughter proponents will contest the decision. They state that the
Senate as a whole cannot be dominated by the meat packers. The United States is one
of the few civilized countries which does not require humane slaughtering methods in
its packing plants. Humane methods whereby animals are rendered insensible to pain
and fear, have been proved to save money by reduction of bruising of meat, injury to
workers on the killing floor, reduction in labor turnover and operation, and other
factors. More mail has reached Washington for enactment of the legislation than on

any other issue during the past two years.

# # # #

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue - New York 22, N.Y-.

June 14, 1958

To Humanitarians:

The enclosed news release gives the good news that Committee action is
at last expected on the humane slaughter bills for Wednesday, June 1'8th. WE MUST
MAKE ONE LAST GREAT EFFORT TO PERSUADE THE COMMITTEE TO ACT
FAVORABLY.

Time is short. Please give this news release just as soon as you possibly
can to the editor of your local newspaper together with the enclosed c0py of editorial
quotations, and ask him to write an editorial urging enactment of 5.1497 without
any weakening amendments.

If you or your friends have not yet requested all the members of the ‘
Committee to vote for the bill, please ask them now by wire or air mail letter. We
would be grateful to receive copies of the editorials which appear, and we will let
you know as quickly as possible the decision of the Committee.

The legislation must pass to stop this intolerable cruelty.

Sinc erely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

Members of Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry

 

Hon. Allen J. Ellender of Louisiana Hon. George D. Aiken of Vermont
Hon. Olin D. Johnston of South Carolina Hon. Milton R. Young of North Dakota
Hon. Spessard L. Holland of Florida ’ Hon. Edward J. Thye of Minnesota
Hon° James O. Eastland of Mississippi Hon. Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa
Hon. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota Hon. Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota
Hon. Stuart Symington of Missouri Hon. John J. Williams of Delaware
Hon. Herman E. Talmadge of Georgia Hon. Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas
Hon. William A. Proxmire of Wisconsin

(All may be addressed: Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C.)

 




June ls, 1958

FROM: Society for Animal Qtective Legislation .
7&5 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

A decision on the pending humane slaughter legislation can be expected to be
reached June 18th, Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, chief sponsor of the Senate bill
S.lh97 said today. An identical measure passed the House of Representatives over—

whelmingly on February fourth and was referred to the Senate Committee on Agriculn

ture and Forestry where hearings were held April 28th to May lst. If the committee

reports favorably on the 18th, the bill will go to the Senate for final action

It provides that after January l, 1960, humane methods must be used.by packers
who make contracts with the federal government. If enacted, more than 100,000,000
animals each year would be protected against terror and pain inflicted.by cruel
methods used routinely today by many packers. Humane methods include instant stun—
ning with a mechanical instrument and anesthetization with carbon dioxide, the sub"
stance that makes the bubbles in soda pop. Both methods have been used on millions
of animals by packers who are voluntarily humane. But many more millions are still
hammered into insensibility with the inaccurate sledge hammer or shackled by a
heavy chain and hoisted into the air fully conscious to go down an assembly line to
the sticker who thrusts a knife into the animal’s throat and pushes it down the
rail to bleed slowly to death. Tee pig that fights for his life and is inadequate»
ly stuck and fails to die from loss of blood may drop, fully conscious, into the
scalding vat and desperately try to swim out. Yet meat packer opponents of Senator
Humphrey‘s bill testified that they felt further study was needed to discover whe~
ther the method described above was less humane than anesthetization of the animals
before slaughter. They have had a ”Committee on Improved Slaughtering Methods“
since 1929 but have reached no conclusions as yet.

Humane societies, the General Federation of Women’s Clubs, the Board of Social
and Economic Relations of the Methodist Church, the National Council of Catholic
Women, the Southern Baptist Convention and other church groups, the Farmers Union,
and countless individual citizens are urgently demanding action to stop unnecessary
cruelty without any more delay. Mail to Congress urging passage of the bill is
greater than on any other piece of pending legislation.

Canada expects to enact a compulsory humane slaughter law this year. If Sena-
tor Humphrey's bill clears the Committee, experienced Observers predict that it will
pass the Senate. This would mean that both the United States and Canada, in the
same year, would join the ranks of the many civilized nations in Western Europe
which have already legislated to protect livestock against unnecessary cruelty in

slaughterhouses.

 




 

   

MORE QUOTATIONS FROM RECENT EDITORIALS

ON THE NEED FOR EFFECTIVE HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION

 

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR, May 8, I958, “Amere factual description of the

 

methods and machinery by which cattle, hogs and sheep are dispatched in the nation’ 3
largest slaughterhouses would leave most readers wondering how such cruelty could
have been condoned so long."

THE CHICAGO (111.) DAILY NEWS, May 6,1958,“The Department of Agriculture and the

 

Amer1can Meat Institute have Opposed the current legislation and asked for further study
of humane slaughter methods. We believe they are mistaken."

THE NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE, May 22,1958, “Slaughterhouses today ring with
the screams of terrified animals. Usually in the case of calves, sheep and hogs, a huge
wheel hoists the terrified animal, shackled to it by a chain thrown around one hind foot,
to a sort of pre== slaughtering assembly line where it hangs upside down while moving,
fully conscious, toward the sticker. Often an animal struggles so violently on the wheel
as to break its own leg. Death comes by bleeding. Sometimes a slow- ~dying hog is still
alive and conscious when dropped into the scalding vat . . . With tested humane methods
readily available, nothing can excuse the barbarity of present slaughtering practices.
The animals must die; but their last moments don’t have to be made a nightmare of pain
and terror. Needless cruelty affronts us all, and if it takes anwact of Congress to make
the packers stop, then let the Congress act."

MY DAY, by Eleanor Roosevelt, May 8, 1958, “I keep getting notes from certain Orthodox
Jewish rabbi groups on the subject of the humane slaughter bill. But in reading the bill,

I feel that their interests are safeguarded by clauses which carefully state that religious
observanc es are not to be interfered with. I am wondering whether the packers are using
the fears of certain religious groups to preserve the present status quo’ . . ‘. I would

be sorry to see the packers win again in a struggle for a more humane attitude toWard
creatures that cannot help themselves."

THE BISMARCK (N. D.) TRIBUNE April 30,1,95,8 “Steers marked for slaughter are driven
into a knocking pen. A man with a long handled sledge tries to knock them to the floor.

If he misses on the first swing, he may knock out an eye or splinter a horn or smash the
nose, and sometimes it takes five, six, or even 10 blows to fell the agonized animal.”

THE ROCK HILL (S.C.) HERALD, April 28, 1958, “The United States, which makes
much of its concern for civilized ways of doing things, has a chance to put its money
where its mouth is by enacting this bill into law.” '

THE ST. PAUL (Minn.) DISPATCH, May-1, 1958, “The bill is opposed by the meat
industry and the Department of Agriculture and there are indications that pressure
is developing to delay the measure by seeking further congressional study of the
problem. It would seem from examination of the history of the problem that it has
been sufficiently studied. ”

THE SHEBOYGAN (Wis.) PRESS, April 28, 1958, “Prompt action should be taken on
this bill- so that humane methods will be used in all instances."

THE ST. LOUIS (Mo. ) POST DISPATCH, April 27,1958. . . . . “Strangely enough the
Department of Agriculture has sided with the American Meat Institute in calling for

' study’. Humane slaughter is the rule in some of our finest packing plants and is the
law in most Western Eur0pean countries. What is there for the Congress of a humane
nation to study?"

.THE CENTERVILLE (Iowa) IOWEGIAN, April 22,1958,“Many plants have already
installed humane processes but not all. A bill has passed the House and is pending
in the Senate to make such slaughter obligatory. Humane treatment of animals calls
for its pw’assage.

THE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS, June 3, 1958, “Stop Stallingw-End the Cruelty .' ._ .
Let’s get this legislation on the books without any more stalling around for ‘further
study’-- one of the oldest known devices for quietly killing off needed enactments."

THE LITTLE ROCK (Ark.) DEMOCRAT, April 26, 1958, ”It's ridiculous for the U.S.,
one of the world’s two leading powers, to lag so far behind West and North ‘Eur0pean
Countries in adopting the most efficient and most humane slaughtering practices."

THE PORTLAND (Me. ) PRESS HERALD, April 25,1958, “Rep. Poage’ 3 bill passed ,
the House. But it may be killed in the Senate if citizens don’ t speak up louder than the
meat lobby which is hollering, if you ’ll pardon the expression, like a stuck pig."

 




THE CAMDEN (N.J.') COURIER- POST, May 10, 1958, “It is a blot on our civilizatidn
that we continue to tolerate the cruelty that goes on in our packing houses toward
helpless animals. It is a worse blot that abranch of our Government. should defend

this brutality while professing to endorse the principle'bf humane slaughter as'the De—
partment does. The Senate Committee should reject the arguments of the packers'lobby
and its allies in the Department of Agriculture and report the bill out for action on

the floor. There is little doubt that if it does, the Senate will join the House in passing

it and making it law which it should be.

THE TULSA (Okla. ) TRIBUNE, May 15,1958,“The Pentagon, it seems, doesn’ t haVe
enough to do trying to reorganize itself and outwit the Russians. Now it has entered the
fight on the side of the American Meat Institute over the humane slaughter bill in the
U S Senate. (The House has already passed the measure) . It is difficult . . . to
find excuses for the Pentagon’s position."

THE TOLEDO (Ohio) BLADE, May 15, 1958, “It is not convincing to argue, as the
Agriculture Department has, that there hasn't been enough research into humane slaughter
methdds. This is not a new issue. Humane groups have been trying for 30 years to coax
packers to act voluntarily . . There is no need of further delay. If the Senate committee
will bring the bill to the floor, the pressure of public Opinion will, we believe, result in its
passageﬂ’

THE WILMINGTON (Del ) JOURNAL EVERY EVENING, May 1,1958, ”We h0pe the
Senate gets a chance to vote on this humane measure.‘

THE DENVER (Colo.) POST, May 1958, “The sacks full of letters'cannot be dismissed
merely as evidence that persons interested in preventing cruelty to animals are well
organized and highly vocal. There is widespread interest in this legislation, as evidenced
by the fact that it is being supported by such organizations as the General Federation of
Women's Clubs and the General Board of Social and Economic Relations of the Methodist
Church."

THE ASHEVILLE (N. C. ) TIMES, May 1,1958, “Slaughter Bill. Deserves Support.’

THE ROCHESTER (N Y.) DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE, May 1958, “Our opinion is that
humane slaughter is right Public opinion apparently agrees, It will and should win.

THE NEWPORT NEWS (Va. ) PRESS, April 30,1958,“Here is one area in which we can
. Honestly, legally, and fruitfully curb the cruely that man inflicts.

THE MANCHESTER (N.H.) UNION LEADER, April 24, 1958,-“If this bill is not made law
this year, the strides already made toward the obvious, humane goal will be tragically lost,
and. millions more animals will have to suffer the UNNECESSARY terror, pain and agony
that we are inflicting upon them through our own indifference and apathy."

THE FORT WAYNE (Ind.) JOURNAL GAZETTE, May 5, 1958, “The way in which a nation
treats its animals is a rather accurate tést of its advancement in civilization."

THE BOSTON(MaSs.) GLOBE, May 7, 1958., “ . . . the Senate Committee on Agriculture
will vote on a bill to make humEne slaughtering compulsory. An identical bill passed

. the House overwhelmingly in February, but a packers‘ lobby has tied up proceedings

ever since. Here is a matter no further impediments should be permitted to obstruct.
Every senator from New England should be asked to acquaint the committee with that

fact at once."

THE YOUNGSTOWN (Ohio) VINDICATOR, April 28, 1958, “Opponents of the legislation
including the Department of Agriculture and the American Meat Institute. offer no really
sensible reasons for their objections.”

THE MARYLAND FARM NEWS May, 1958, “(The killing of animals is necessary-5
we have conceded this fact. But we think this should be repeated until it rings around
the whole world. You can kill them with kindness. '"

THE AMSTERDAM (N.Y.) EVENING RECORDER, May 19. 1958, “We are forced to agree
with the humane societies that present methods are ‘cruel, barbaric and immoral.?,
It’s high time a stop was put to it.”

THE MUNCIE (Ind. ) PRESS, May 7,1958,“We urge that Congress enact the legislation
without delay. Cruelty, whether toward man or animals, has no place in the American
scene.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N.Y.

May 22, 1958

To Humanita rians:

We had hoped to be able to send you good news about the humane slaughter
bills today, but the hearings have not yet been printed, and the Committee,
therefore, has taken no action on the bills. However, action is expected in the near
future. Senator Ellender has stated repeatedly that he has never bottled up a bill in
his Committee and that he is not going to do so now. He was a very fair Chairman
and elicited much information from opponents of the bills which they would have
liked to have kept hidden. For example, the single packer who had the temerity to
come before the Committee in person to testify against the bills was forced to
admit that only one humane improvement had ever been made in his plant (a jerkless
hog hoist brought from Denmark many years ago) and that they still stick the pigs
in the same old way.

The original set-up of the hearings, as reported to you in our last circular
letter, was changed to allow rebuttal by” the supporters of the legislation, and
this was much needed because so many misleading statements were made by the
opponents. If you wish to read the testimony presented at the hearings in full, you
may obtain a copy by writing to the Clerk of the Committee on Agriculture and
Forestry, 324 Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. The weight of the testimony
is heavily on the side of the legislation.

It is vital, nevertheless, that the Senators continue to learn of the great
extent of public demand for this legislation. If you have not yet written to all the
members of the Committee, please write now to any you may have omitted before.
If you have written them all, then please write to the Senate Leaders:

 

Senator Lyndon B. Johnson, Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C.
and

Senator William F. Knowland, Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C.

Ask them to do all in their power to ensure that the humane slaughter bills,

H.R. 8308 and S. .1497, with no weakening amendments, are passed before Congress

adjourns. Ask your friends to write too. EVERY LETTER HELPS BRING THE
DAY NEARER WHEN THE BILLS WILL BE ENACTED INTO LAW.

 

Editorials urging enactment of this legislation are appearing in leading
newspapers all over the Country. Today, the New York Herald Tribune stated
editorially:

 

“Slaughterhouses today ring with the‘ screams of terrified animals;
Usually in the case of calves, sheep and hogs, a huge wheel hoists the animals
shackled to it by a chain thrown around one hind foot, to a sort of pre- slaughtering
assembly line where it hangs upside down while moving, fully conscious, toward
the sticker. Often an animal struggles so violently On the wheel as to break its
oWn leg. Death comes by bleeding.‘ Sometimes a slow— —dying hog is still alive and

 




-2-

consciouis when dropped into the scalding vat . . . . With tested humane methods
readily available, nothing can excuse the barbarity of present slaughtering practices.
The animals must die; but their last moments don’t have to be made a nightmare

of pain and terror. Needless cruelty affronts us all, and if it takes an act of Congress
to make the packers stop, then let the Congress act,"

 

 

 

The New York Times, the Chicago Daily News, the Dallas News, the St. Louis
Post—Dispatch, the Cleveland Plain Dealer, the Louisville Courier Journal, the
San Francisco Examiner, the Boston Herald, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, the
Denver Post, the Detroit News, the Galveston Tribune, the Mobile Register, the
Washington Post, and the Times—Picayune, to name just a few, have all been
urging the Senate to pass the measure which has already been passed by the House
of Representatives. If you would like to have copies of quotations from some of
these and other editorials or if you wish other literature, let us know, and we
will send it promptly to you or others whom you designate. Many people are still
unaware of the horrible and unnecessary cruelty to our food animals in slaughter-
houses. As more learn about it, the demand that it be stOpped by law increases.
Please keep doing all you can to help this legislation pass now.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

Members of Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry .

Allen J. Ellender of Louisiana Hon. George D. Aiken of Vermont
Olin D. Johnston of South Carolina Hon. Milton R. Young of North Dakota
Spessard L. Holland of Florida Hon. Edward J. Thye of Minnesota
James O. Eastland of Mississippi Hon. Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa
Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota Hon. Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota
Stuart Symington of Missouri Hon. John H. Williams of Delaware
Herman E. Talmadge of Georgia Hon. Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas
William Proxmire of Wisconsin

(All may be addressed: Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C.)

 




  
    
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
 
   
    
    
 

     

 

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTEVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812
New York 22, New York

May 3.9 3-958

Thank you for your letter suggesting names of humanitarians to whom
we should send literature. This material has been sent and we greatly
appreciate your help.

Hearings have just been completed on the humane slaughter bills
(s. 1497 and the identical Hose 8308)o We hope that the Committee will
send them to the Senate Floor at its next meeting may 7tho Letters to
members of the Committee are much needed at this timeo

If the editor of your local newspaper published an editorial in
favor of humane slaughter legislation, please let your Senators know
about it, sending them.copies or quoting irom.ito We would be grateful,
too, if you would let us know of such editorialso

May we also suggest that if you have acqu.aintances in ar y of the
States represen +ed on the S enate Committee on.Agrieulture and Forestry
you ask them to w; its their Ser ators urging immediate favoraole action

‘ s. lh97 and Base 8308?

 

Please let us know if you nee ed more lit er rature. Your continued
active help is needed in order to ge et the bills favorably reported by
the Committee so that the Senate as a whole can vote on them.

With kind regards and:many thanks,

  
 

Sincerely,

 




My name is Madeleine Bemelmans and I represent the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation.

I have not come here today to weary the Committee with a
recital of facts and statistics, so ably presented by other
witnesses who have devoted years of study to the subject.
Certainly, if you Gentlemen have given the matter the careful
consideration which your letters to your constituents would seem

to indicate, you already must be fully aware that instruments

and methods exist which make conditions currently existing in

most of our slaughterhouses inexcusable and senseless.

But I do wish to ask this Committee, humbly and respectfully,
how lOng is the will of the vast majority of the people of the
United States to be flouted by a small group of wilful men?

It is hard to understand the motives of these men unless we
ascribe them to a certain hidebound devotion to wornout usage
and that same stubbornness that made them resist Federal Meat
Inspection.

When they say that humane methods of slaughter are not
economically feasible, they are not being truthful. When they
say they need more time for study they are not being sincere.

If they Spent less money lobbying, maybe they could afford to
modernize their plants. Enlightened self-interest should make
them see that it is high time to revise their public relations,
as more and more people, for reasons of conscience, are becoming

vegetarians.

 




 

 

With furious indignation, I have often defended the United

 

States against the charge of crass materialism. I insist that

 

the American peOple are as idealistic, generous, and fair-

 

minded as any on earth. But when I consider how far ahead are
many countries in EurOpe and elsewhere with reSpect to decent
treatment of the animals who contribute so much to our well-
being, I hang my head in shame. Still, this is not my fault
nor the fault of the average man.

Members of Congress have invariably told me that they have
received a larger volume of mail demanding humane slaughter
legislation than they have on any other subject. All over the
country leading newspapers, reflecting the climate of public
Opinion, SUpport these demands with force and eloquence.

If humane slaughter legislation is not enacted this year
it will be cited as an example by those who wish to prove that
big business runs this country.

Gentlemen, I beg of you, do not break faith with the

 

American people.




April 28, 1958

STATEMENT OF PAUL W. KEARNEY, free lance feature writer for leading

national magazines, to the Senate Committee on Agriculture and

Forestry in re: the so-called "Humane Slaughter Bill,” S. 1497.

My name is Paul W. Kearney, of Brooklyn, N. Y. I am a free lance
contributor to such magazines as the Saturday Evening Post, Readers'
Digest, POpular Science, Better Homes & Gardens, and others. As such
I have personally investigated the revolting conditions prevailing in
representative slaughter houses of all the leading packers. I have
also seen the efficiency, the benefits and the profits which are the
result of humane methods adOpted voluntarily by such concerns-as

Hormel, Oscar Mayer, and Hygrade.

This is the third year that I have come to Washington, at my own

expense, to support this civilized effort to temper the degrading
brutality in the slaughter of our food animals. And while we have
hemmed and hawed and stalled under the suave duress of the organized
packers, the benighted Fiji Islanders have enacted a stiffer humane
slaughter law than the one you are considering. Perhaps they have
been denied the wisdom of Secretary Benson and his tribal brother,
Mr. Aled P. Davies of the American Meat Institute.

Frankly, I was discouraged to find that this third trip would be
necessary, for this costs time and money. Yet I became a little
ashamed of that feeling when I ran across a letter from a lady in
Cleveland Heights, Ohio, who also heartily favors this legislation.

Mrs. Cora K. Reed is her name. And the simple, but shocking,
statement she makes is something for you to ponder over and over as
you listen to the smooth but meaningless assurances you will hear

reiterated by the American Meat Institute’s spokesmen in the sessions
to follow.

“when I was in my teens," writes Mrs. Reed - and I

gnote ~ "a humane (slaughter) law was tried to be

 




2.
passed. I am now past 75 years, so you can imagine
I'm a bit discouraged." End of quote.

COnservatively, this means that the packers and the Department of
Agriculture have been "studying" this proposition for close to 60
years. Is it any wonder that they have reached this stage of acute
mental constipation which now afflicts them?

Do you feel, Gentlemen, that it takes six decades to distinguish
between black and white-~-between barbarity and decency-~—even be-
‘tween Operating profit and loss? For, make no mistake, humane
slaughter is far more profitable and efficient than the archaic

methods that have prevailed Since before the American Revolution.

Anyone who doubts it need only consult the balance sheets of the

Hormel company which, for years, has had the highest profit ratio in
the entire packing industry.
Now I don't say that this enviable achievement is due solely to

humane slaughter: I simply say that Hormel adopted humane slaughter

because they have the wit to recognize an efficient operation when
they see one.

In the trade press they have repeatedly stated that these humane
methods have doubled their output with half the manpower. You just

can't bury this under double-talk—-—and certainly it has convinced

Oscar Mayer and Hygrade that it would be profitable to follow suit.
That it hasn't convinced the others--who profess to lose money on
every pound of meat sold——-is no surprise to anybody who has ever
looked at their operations with an eye to industrial efficiency and
workmen‘s safety. The neatest diagnosis of the whole situation was
the succinct comment of FORBES Business Weekly two years ago (Jan. ;

'56) in its annual business review:

”The once powerful packers.....are suffering from
the ravages of old age and hardening of the corporate
arteries.“

This is no sentimental slush from an old lady past 75. Neither

 




’ 3. P

are the editorial Opinions which have swept this country from coast
to coast in support of this legislation. I have here extracts from
90 editorials in influential newspapers which unanimously urge
passage Of this bill~—-but unless you insist, I shall read only
three. I H

One significant one is from that important cattle country, Texas,

which is not noted for sentimentalism. The Texarkana GAZETTE (4-11-
57) says: “We cannot continue to pose as a civilized peOple if we
continue to condone some of the inhumane methods used in slaughter-

ing defenseless animals."
Granted, the GAZETTE is not exactly the New York TIMES. Yet only

two weeks ago the New York TIMES said: (4-12-58) "The House bill is

now awaiting action in the Senate Committee on Agriculture, of which

Mr. Ellender of Louisiana is chairman. Alternative measures to pro»

vide for additional 'study' of the situation are merely devices for
delay and are entirely unsatisfactory. The humane slaughter legis-

lation ought to be reported and passed as is."

Identical sentiments have been expressed by such important news-

papers as the Milwaukee JOURNAL (6-20-57); the Washington POST AND
TIMES HERALD (3-19-58); the San Francisco EXAMINER (2-8-58); the

Boston HERALD (2-7-58); the Hartford COURANT (2—3-58); the
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR (3-22—57), whose editorial was widely

reprinted; the Cincinnati POST (7—11-57); the Pittsburgh POST-
GAZETTE (2-6-58); the New York DAILY NEWS (4-1-57); the Miami
HERALD (7—9-57); the Louisville COURIER JOURNAL (2-18-58); the
Mobile REGISTER (2*8—58); and dozens of others.

These are not zealous old ladies, either: they are men who can

read a balance sheet just as well as they read public opinion. And
the concensus of their thinking on humane slaughter is tersely sum-
med up by the observation of the St. Louis POST-DISPATCH (4-8-57):

"Who could oppose it?"

Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, I'Illeave that one for

you to answer.
*****

 




LA’I'ES’L' IEIH‘om-mucs; ‘ .
PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
fth Avenue

22 , New York

Rebuttal 2:
action is

April 25, 1958
To Humanitarians:

The Subcommittee on Agricultural Research recommended to the full Committee on Agri-
culture and Forestry that they send the companion humane slaughter bills S. 1497 and H.R.
8308 to the full Senate to be voted on. But the full Committee would not do this. They de-
cided that hearings must be held again, for the third time. They Scheduled the hearings for
April 28th through May first, and the hearings have been so arranged as to give every ad-
vantage to the opponents. This is how they are set up:

April 28 - Supporters of S. 1497 and H.R. 8308
April 29 — Opponents of S. 1497 and H.R. 8308
April 30 - Government agencies (all are opposed.)

'May first - Farm organizations (many are opposed especially because of the cur-
rent work of the meat packers lobby which is described later.)

And, as of April 22nd, the Clerk of the Committee Was stating that there would be no
opportunity for rebuttal by those who support the bill. This in spite of the fact that it
is the opponents who asked for the hearings and who are trying to make out some kind of a
new case against the legislation! It is hard to imagine a more unfair approach.

Meantime, the representatives of numerous livestockkgroups from all over the country
are in Washington because of their interest in a totally different piece of legislation.
Aled P. Davies, the chief lobbyist fer the American Meat Institute representing all the
biggeSt meat packers, is using every sOrt of persuasion to get each of them to cume and
testify against the humane slaughter bill.

Mr. Davies is the most.active of any single individual who is trying to prevent ef-
fective humane slaughter legislation from passing, and his influence is great with Secre-
tary onggriculture, Ezra Taft Benson, whose opposition to the legislation has been so big
an obstacle. He even writes important statements for Secretary Benson as demonstrated by a
news story by William McGaffin (Chicago Daily News Service, Feb. 23, 1958) which stated in
part: "A registered lobbyist for the American Meat Institute is an adviser to the United
States Secretary of Agriculture... The lobbyist'sname isAledP. Davies... Davies 'advised
the Secretary on a good deal of wording' in the statement,.said MacMillan. Benson's aide
said Davies is 'one of several advisers' the Secretary calls on from time to time. 'Don't
you think the advice of a lobbyist might be prejudiced?‘ MacMillan.was asked. VMaybe it
could be,’ he replied. Then MacMillan said Benson Called upon Davies'in his capacity as a
specialist.’ He said Benson and Davies had been friends fOr years, that Davies went to
England on a mission for the Agriculture Department at one time, and at another time worked

for the Department as a consultant._In reply to a question, MacMillan said the lobbyist

still retained his job with the American Meat Institute while he was working for the

Agriculture-Department."‘

 




we

This is how the score reads on humane slaughter legislation:
Power Possessed by the Power Possessed by

Opposition Supporters of humane slaughter legislation

 

 

The entrenched position of the meat I The Press. Most of this country's leading
packers' lobby. newspapers support humane slaughter legis—
lation. Not even one paper of the first
Secretary of Agriculture Ezra Taft rank is opposed.
Benson and the government agencies. ,
The Public. More mail has been received in
The Farm Bureau and other groups Washington favoring passage of this legis-
which follow the Secretary's lead. lation than on any other subject.
The huge financial resources of the The Right. Unnecessary cruelty cannot be
packers. condoned. Humane slaughter methods are
' sound, practical, available. They should
be used.

ON MAY NINTH, the first regular meeting of the Senate COmmittee on Agriculture and
Forestry following the hearings is scheduled to take place. At that time, we have been told,
the members will decide on which side to cast their vote. IF THE COMMITTEE DEFEATS S 1497 &
HR 8308 OR AMENDS THEM INTO INEFFECTIVENESS THE SENATE AS’A WHOLE WILL BE DEPRIVED OF THE
RIGHT TO MAKE UP THEIR OWN MINDS ON THIS MATTER - AN IMPORTANT ONE FOR OUR NATION'S MORAL
STATURE. As you know, the House of Representatives has already overwhelmingly passed the
measure.

We have asked you to write often before, and your letters have played an incalculably
great part in bringing this legislation to the verge of success. We urge you now either to
write or wire again to each member of the Committee or to speak to other peOple who have
not yet expressed their views to the Committee and make sure they write or wire in time for
the Senators to receive the messages before May ninth..BE SURE TO EMPHASIZE THAT A STUDY
BILL WILL NOT PROTECT ANIMALS AND WILL NOT BE ACCEPTABLE TO ANY HUMANITARIAN.

This is the most critical moment the legislation has yet faced. Please do all you can
to help it get past the Senate Committee without any weakening amendments.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

P.S. If you'haven’t yet written to your own Senators, now is the time to do it. We would be
grateful if you would send us any favorable replies you receive. If you wish to suggest the
names of persons who would be interested in receiving humane slaughter literature, please

send us their names and we will mail the material promptly.

' Members of Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry

. Allen J. Ellender of Louisiana Hon. George D. Aiken of Vermont
Olin D. Johnston of South Carolina Hon. Milton R. Young of North Dakota
Spessard L. Holland of Florida .Hon. Edward J. Thye of Minnesota_
James O. Eastland of Mississippi Hon. Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa

. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota Hon. Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota
Stuart Symington of Missouri ‘ Hon..John J. Williams of Delaware
Herman E. Talmadege of Georgia Hon. Andrew F. Sohoeppel of Kansas

QAll may be addressed: Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C.)

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

April 16, 1958

To Humanitarians:

Word has just been received that hearings on humane slaughter legislation
have been scheduled for_April 28th to May lst. The packers will do everything
possible to discourage favorable action on effective legislation.

Please write today and ask your friends to write 32.223.232 Senators
from your state (Seewenclosed listing for theirﬂﬁamggt7' Ask them to request
the Committee on.Agri¢ulture and Forestry to act prOmptly on the measure so
that it can be voted on by the whole Senate and enacted into law in this
Session of CongrsSS. Ask your Senators to vote for itaas soon as it reaches
the floor. It will be very helpful if you will send us copies of their replies.

 

 

H.R 8308, which passed the House of Representatives on.February hth, and
S. lb97, which has been amended to be identical with the House bill, are now
before the Committee. Also before the Committee is a bad bill which would
merely set up a study commission on humane slaughter. This bill has the supPOI't
of the packers and would delay for two years or more enactment of effective
legislation againstslaughterhouse cruelty. Be sure your Senators know you do
not want a study bill, but you d3 want the identical good bills (S. 1&97 and
HIE; 8308) to be passed by the Senate.

Enclosed are quotations from some of the editorials in favor of humane
slaughter legislation which have been appearing in newspapers all over the
country in the past two months. Also enclosed are statements made in the
debate tn the House of Representatives by the Hon. W. R. Poage (Dem.Texas) and
the Hon. William Dawson (Rep. Utah). Please give the editor of your local
newspaper the material and ask him to write an editorial in favor of the
legislation. (Let us know if you want us to send you additional literature
to give him.)

If you or your friends have not written to the members of the Senate
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, please write to each one now. Their
names are starred on the enclosed list of Senators.

IF EFFECTIVE HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION IS NOT PASSED BY THE SENATE
BEFORE CONGRESS ADJOURNS THIS YEAR, THE PROGRESS ALREADY MADE WILL BE LOST.
THE BILL WOULD HAVE TO START.ALL OVER AGAIN IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
ANOTHER LONG YEAR OF CRUELTY WOULD BE IN STORE FOR OUR FOOD.ANIMALS. EVERY
HOUR TENS OF THOUSANDS OF THEM ARE BEING KILLED IN PAIN.AND FEAR THAT IS AS
HORRIBLE.AS IT IS NEEDIESS. HUMANITARIANS MUST NOT.ALLOW IT TO CONTINUE.

No normal person can be in favor of continued, unnecessary, mass cruelty,
but many people are still unaware of this cruelty in our slaughterhouses. It
is our duty to inform all citizens through every means we can. Humane ministers
are putting announcements on the need for the legislation in their church
bulletins. Please ask your minister to do the same. Ask any club or group
to which you belong to request all the members to write the Senators. Please
do everything in your power to increase still further the public demand for
this humane legislation so that it will be enacted this year.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary—Treasurer

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEQESLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

April 3, 1958

Dear Unitarian Minister,
You belong to a great religious tradition.

From the beginning it has been characterized by its humanitarin
anism. Just to mention such names as Samuel C. Howe and William
Lloyd Garrison, Dorothea Dix and Julia Ward Howe is to bring to mind
great causes that Unitarians have championed.

The animal protective movement in America was founded by a
Unitarian, Henry Bergh, who organized the American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Other Unitarians have been lead-
ers in this movement, and today a great liberal theologian, Albert
Schweitzer, who is greatly revered in Unitarian circles, has made
reverence for all forms of life the central principle of his ethics
and religion.

I am appealing to you to lend your great influence as 8 Units-
rian minister to our effort to protect helpless animals from uns
necessary cruelty in 0ur slaughterhouses. Unitarian leaders have
suggested that I make this appeal to you.

It is a pitiful thing that methods of extreme cruelty,
which have been long ago outlawed in a number of European countries,
are still practised in American slaughterhouses. Most animals
still die in frightful pain and fear, in spite of-the fact that
practical, humane methods are easily available to the packing in-
dustry.

The United States House of Representatives passed a bill on
February hth of this year providing that the Federal government
shall make contracts only with packers who use humane methods in
all their plants.

It is most important now that shmilar legislation embodied
in the Senate bill (S. 1&9?) should be passed before Congress ad~
journs this year. Otherwise the battle will have to begin all
over again a year hence.

Will you, as one of America's religious leaders, please help
us? You can perhaps preach on this subject, you can request the
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to act promptly. You can
appeal to your Senators.

Tens of thousands of our food animals are now suffering a
horrible fate every hour. We cannot wait.

May I express to you in advance my deep appreciation of
whatever you can do to help.

Sincerely yours,
M 4’ . , ‘ ,;:‘-f ,1"
Madeleine Bemelmans, President

 




 

 

 

NEWS FLnACE FE;OM: Society for Animal Protective Tebl tion
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

Mrs. Roger Stevens, Publicity
ORegon 5-1069

The meﬁieval slaughtering practices of the meat-packing industry may
soon be a thing of the pest bece se of a bill passed in the House of
Representatives. The bill has a two~fold purpose; to estebliSh the use of
humane methods of slaughter of livestock as a policy of the United States;
and, it specifically states that after December 31, 1959, the government
will refuse to buy meat from packers who do not use humene methods in all
of their plants.

This reform is long overdue inasmuch as there is no lees on why the
meat~pecking industry must inflict nee Wle c=s cruelty on animals.

It is to he hoped that the ?enete will concur quickly.

 

 

 




HUMANE SLAUGHTERING METHODS ARE AVAILABLE

No animals need die in agony to provide the nation With meat. Humane methods are available for
slaughtering. BUT most food animals will continue to suffer like the poor lambs on the cover UNLESS
a compulsory humane slaughter law is passed by Congress.

LEGISLATION IS NECESSARY

Wherever the majority of animals are slaughtered without cruelty, it is because there is a law requir-
ing humane methods. Between 1874 and 1956, Switzerland, Holland, Norway, SCOtland’ Ireland, Eng-
land, Finland, Sweden, Fiji, New Zealand, Denmark and parts Of France: Germany, Austria and Aus-
tralia enacted such laws.

AMERICANS DEMAND THAT CRUELTY STOP

No normal person, unless he has a vested interest in them, wants cruel methods to continue.

The General Federation of Women’s Clubs, the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen
of America, the Farmers, Union, and animal protective societies in all sections of the nation were among
those testifying Strongly in favor of compulsory humane slaughter legislation at the public hearing in
Washington April 2, 1957.

After thorough examination of the evidence, including visits to Slaughterhouses throughout the
country, the Committee on Agriculture of the United States House of Representatives voted 25 to 3
in favor of such legislation and the House Rules Committee promptly approved it.

Congress received more mail from citizens asking for its passage than on any other issue last year.

NEVERTHELESS, opponents of humane slaughter, working largely behind the scenes, managed
to prevent the bills from coming to a vote. Compulsory humane slaughter legislation MUST be passed
this year to give our animals the protection they so desperately need. It will be passed if conscientious
citizens express their wishes to their elected representatives.

WHAT EVERY CITIZEN CAN DO

l. write to your own Congressman at the House Ofﬁce Building, Washington, D.C. {if you do
not. itnow his name, consult your local political club, newspaper or library.) Write to both Senators
from eel.“ State, at the Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. Tell them you want an effective law
passed. Ii‘ii‘ei’OW, without further delay.

2. Z’iiell your friends and acquaintances, your church groups and your club groups, about the urgent
need for the legislation.

3. Ask all of them to write their Congressman and Senators, urging enactment of the compulsory
humane slaughter bills: HR. 8308 in the House of Representatives, S. 1497 in the Senate.

4. Give them copies of this leaﬂet. (Free copies will be sent you on request for distribution.)

' D
5. Ask the Editor Of your local paper to publish an editorial in favor of compulsory humane slaugh-
ter legislation. (Free samplings of the many such editorials published last year will be sent you on request.)

6. KEEP ASKING for enactment until the law is on the books.

“BACKGROUND ~— INFORMATION ON HUMANE SLAUGHTER-

1. Calves, sheep and hogs are killed in the same cruel, way as the lambs depicted in this leaﬂet. In
the case of cattle, an effort is made to stun them in most plants. But if a hammer instead of a humane
stunning instrument is used, the animals often have to be beaten over the head repeatedly as they 'lunge,
fall and struggle to their feet, bellowing with pain.

2. All these animals can be killed humanely: stunned with captive bolt pistols and mechanical
stunners (ranging in price from $100 to $200), or anesthetized with harmless carbon dioxide. Anesthe-
tization machines are available for installation in plants killing 60 to 1200 hogs per hour ($3,500 to
$39,000 plus installation costs). Use of these humane methods puts an end to the pain and fear now
being inﬂicted on more than 100,000,000 animals annually in this country.

3. Bruising of meat caused by inhumane methods wastes many millions of dollars worth of meat
annually. It is economically sound for packers to adopt humane methods.

4. Some plants have installed humane methods for part of their operations and are well satisﬁed
With the results. (Hormel & Co., Kingan & Co., Oscar Mayer & Co. use carbon dioxide to anesthetize
hogs, and about 200 plants use one of the mechanical stunners fof cattlie.) But no nationally adver-
tized packer uses humane methods to kill all animals.

0 ”I

5. Slaughtermen currently have one of the most dangerous jobs in American industry. Struggling
with agonized animals ﬁghting for their lives, the men are often gouged and bitten, or the knife 15
deﬂected causing serious wounds. The injury rate in slaughterhouses 18 approximately twice that for
all other industry. By anesthetizing or stunning animals, these hazards are removed. So are the deaf-
ening screams 0f the pigs, the spattering of blood and ﬁlth and the intense nervous strain which cause
men to move from the killing ﬂoor, in inhumanely operated plants, as fast as they can get the senior-
ity to do so.

6. No humane slaughter bill proposed interferes, in any way, with the ritual of any religion.

7. The packers are ﬁghting compulsory humane slaughter legislation just as they once fought the
Federal Meat Inspection Act which protects the purity of our meat Products. Because there is no
rational defense for inhumane slaughter. they are trying one of the cues" legislative tricks to aVOid
a compulsory law 3 the substitution of a study commission to do research on humane slaughter—
although they have been “studying” the matter since 1929’ when the industry promised humanitarians
to install humane methods voluntarily.

For Free Copies Of this Leaﬂet, Write to:

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION

745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

 




Lambs like these are sacriﬁced by the million, so that you may eat. The Biblical
expression "as a lamb to the slaughter” was inspired by their docnlity and innocence. Do
you think they should be subjected to unnecessary cruelty on the killing ﬂoor?

THIS ANIMAL IS FULLY
CONSCIOUS and suffering
extreme fear and pain. The
butcher has pulled it taut by
one ear so that he can drive
his knife into its throat. Note
the tight, iron shackle attached
to the chain» by which the ter-
riﬁed creature was hauled off
its feet and sent along the
"assembly line”. It would be
easy to make this animal un-
conscious before slaughter,
but the packing industry (with
a few praiseworthy exceptions)
continues with the old, cruel
methods. The method shown
is used to kill the great major-
ity of lambs, calves, sheep and

pigs.

‘ )

 

Unconsciousness finally
comes from loss of blood.
The photograph below shows
the animals pushed along the
"rail” to "bleed out”. In their
struggles, blood splashes on
the wall.

YOUR PROTEST Is NEEDED TO STOP THIS BARBAROUS CRUELTY

Please write today to your Congressman and Senators in Washington asking
to vote for the CoMPULSORY HUMAN E SLAUGHTER bills now pending (For

more information, mm over this sheet.

. r

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION

745 Fifth Avenue New York 22, N.Y.
Roon1 8T2

Thank you very much for sending us the letters you received from Senatorso
It is extremely helpful to have them, and we appreciate it.

We trust you received our circular letter of June 19th telling how the Senate
Agriculture Committee reported out the meat packers' study bill instead of the effective
humane slaughter bill which was passed by the House of Representatives this Februaryo

Here is what the New York Daily News (circulation 2,092,455) said editorially
on June 20th:

"HUMANE SLAUGHTER RUNAROUND

"Some time ago, the House passed a Humane Slaughter bill, forbidding Uaso .
Government agencies to buy meat from suppliers using the brutal, inhumane methOds
of killing meat animals still in use in far too many U93, slaughterhouses.

"The Senate Agriculture Committee now has approved a substitute bill° This

one directs the Secretary of Agriculture to study the subject for two years, while
countless more animals die in agony, and then submit a proposal

STOP TORTURING MEAT to Congress for a Humane Slaughter law“

ANIMALS TO DEATH "Sena Allen J, Ellender (D-La.) backs this bill with the
tired old plea that the subject requires further research m

disregarding the facts that humane slaughter methods have been successfully used in

most of Western Europe for years, and that a few UOSO packers (notably Hormel) have

long found them.both successful and profitableo

"We hope the Senate will give the boot to this heartless and hypocritical substitute
measure and pass the House bill promptly," '

To achieve this purpose, it is essential that every Senator receive many, many
wires and airmail letters from his own constituents Egg“ EVERYONE WHO WANTS TO STOP.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE CRUELTY SHOULD GET IN TOUCH IMMEDIATELY WITH THE SENATORS FROM HIS
STATE ASKING THEM TO;

1) Vote_against what the_§aily News so justly describes as the "heartless and
hypocritical substitute measure" reported out by the Agriculture Committeeo

 

 

2) Vote for the humane slaughter bill as passed by the Houseo

Please do your utmost now to let the Senate know that the country wants honest,
effective humane slaughter legislation passed before Congress adjourns°

With much appreciation for your humane interest and hard work.

Sincerely,

 




QIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGIQTION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

Thank you very much for sending the names of people interested in stopping
cruelty to animals in slaughterhouses. We have sent them literature as you suggested,
and we hope all of them will write to the Senators from their states. Letters to
every Senator, particularly from his own constituents, are needed now to defeat the
”study” bill reported out by the Senate Agriculture Committee and to pass the compulsory
humane slaughter bill.

 

Some of our correspondents have asked us what the procedure will be. We are
'informed that when the study bill reaches the floor of the Senate for debate, the
friends of honest, effective humane slaughter legislation will move to amend the study
bill, restoring the provisions of the good bill that passed the House in February.‘
Every Senator should be urged to support this strengthening amendment. If it is
adopted, the measure will be sent to the President for his signature. If it becomes
law, it will protect more than 100,000,000 animals each year against horrible cruelty.

Here are comments from some current editorials showing what the press thinks
of the study bill:

The Washington Post (June 22, 1958) characterizes it as ”a cynical bill”, a
”dilatory and evasive measure,” and asks that the bill as passed by the House be
enacted instead.

The New York Mirror (June 23) ”The Senate should disregard this conscience-
salving substitute measure and pass the Humane Slaughter Bill without delay.‘l

 

The New York Daily News (June 20) ”We hope that the Senate will give the boot
to this heartless and hypocritical substitute measure and pass the House bill promptly.”

The Christian Science Monitor (June 21) ”We hope the Senate will substitute the
House bill for its committee's compromise and so move America further toward the ranks
of nations whose meat is produced humanely.‘l

The New York World Telegram and Sun (June 23) ”More study indeed! This issue
has just about been studied to death, as the Senate committee well knows. We hope
other Senators will reject this latest stall and insist that the House bill be put
before the Senate.”

If the editor of your local paper has published an editorial along this line,
please be sure to send a copy to each of your Senators. If your paper has not yet
carried such an editorial, please urge your editor to do so now.

Again, thanks for all that you are doing to pass the bill which will force the
packers to use humane methods. Please let us know if you need more literature. Your
continued active help is needed in order to get the legislation passed by the Senate
in the next few weeks before the adjournment of Congress.

With kind regards,

Sincerely,

Secretary-Treasurer

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

March 22 , 1958

To Humanitarisns:

No action has yet been taken on humane slaughter legislation by the Senate
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Opponents of effective legislation to
protect animals hope to 1:111 it all together by prolonging the delay still
further.- WE MUST DEMAND ACTION IMMEDIATEIX.

‘ Please write toda and ash your friends to write to the two Senators
from your state'18ee enclosed listing for their names.5 Ask them to renuest
the Committee on.Agriculture and.Forestry to act promptly on the measure so
that it can be voted on by the whole Snnate and enacted into law in this
seesion of Congress. .Ash your Senators to vote for itxas soon as it reaches

the floor. It will be very helpful if you will send us copies of their replies..

H.R 8308, which passed the House of Representatives On February nth, and
S. 1&97, which has been amended to be identical with the House bill, are now
before the Committee. Also before the Committee is a bad bill which would
merely set up a study commission on humane slaughter. This bill has the SHPPOI't
of the packers and would delay for two years Or more enactment of effective
legislation ayﬁm‘st Slaughterhouse cruelty. Be sure your Senators know you do
not want a study bill, but you do want the identical good bills (3- 1h97 and
H.R. 8308) to be passed by the Senate.

' ERCIOSGd are Quotations from some of the editorials in favor of humane
slaughter legislation which have been appearing in newspapers all over the
country in the past two months. Also enclosed are statements made in the
debate ﬁn thg House Of R€Presentatives by the Hon.‘w. E. Poage (Dem.Texas) and
the Hon. Willian.Dawson (Rep. Utah). Please give the editor of yrur local
DEVSPEPBI the material and ask him to write an editorial in favor of the
legislation, (Let us know if you want us to send you additional literature

to give him.)

If you or your friends have not written to the members of the Senate
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, please write to each one now. Their
names are starred on the enclosed list of Senators.

IF EFFECTIVE HUMANS SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION Is NOT PASSED BY THE SENATE
BEFORE CONGRESS ADJOURNS THIS YEAR, THE PROGRESS ALREADY EADE WILL BE LOST.
THE BILL WOULD HAVE TO START ALL OVER AGAIN‘IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTTTIVES.
ANOTHER LONG mm OE CRUELTI WOULD BE IN STORE FOR OUR FOOD ANIMALS. EVERY
HOUR TENS OF THOUSANDS OF THEM ARE BEING KILLED IN RATE AND FEAR THAT Is AS.
HORRIBIE AS IT IS NEEDIEss. HUMANITARIANS MUST NOT ALLOW IT To CONTINUE.

No normal person can be in favor of continued, unnecessary, mass cruelty,
but many P80ple are still unaware of this cruelty in our_slaughterhouses. It
is our duty to inform all citizens through every means we can. Humane ministers
are Putting announcements on the need for the legislation in their church
bulletins. Please ask your minister to do the same. Ask any Club or group
‘00 which you belong to request all the members to write the Senators. .qucase
do everything in your power to increase still further the public demﬁn¢.for
this humane legislation so that it will be enacted this year.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President ,
Christine Stevens, Secretarwareasurer

 




 
         
     
 

   

SOCIETY 'FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
' 745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812
New York 22, New York

  
  
     
  

-. ,4 .17 _

 
 

Thank you very much for writing to Washington and for sending us
copies of the letters you have received in reply. We appreciate your
work which is most valuable.

Unfortunately, no action was taken by the Senate Committee on Agri-
culture and Forestry at its February 19th meeting, so please urge your
friends and acquaintances who have not yet written to each Committee
member to do so now. The packers are seeking to defeat the bill by de-
laying tactics and are even asking for hearings to be held for a third
time! (Hearings Were held in the Senate in 1956 and in the House of
Representatives in 1957).

    
       
      
    
 
 

It is of great importance that each member of the Committee receive
‘many letters urging him to vote for S. 1497 in Committee and to vote

against any weakening amendments which might be proposed. The Committee
members' names are listed below for your convenience.

   
    
   
 
 

Thanks again for all that you are doing to help protect the animals
in slaughterhouses against cruelty.

   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
  
   
   

Sincerely,

Secretary-Treasurer

Members of Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry

Hon. Allen J. Ellender of Louisiana Hon. George D. Aiken of Vermont

Hon. Olin D. Johnston of South Carolina Hon. Milton R. Young of North Dakota
Hon. Spessard L. Holland of Florida Hon. Edward J. Thye of Minnesota
Hon. James O. Eastland of Mississippi Hon. Bourke B. Hicken100per of Iowa
Hon. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota Hon. Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota
Hon. W. Kerr Scott of North Carolina Hon. John J. Williams of Delaware
Hon. Stuart Symington of Missouri Hon. Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas

Hon. Herman E. Talmadge of Georgia

(All may be addressed: Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C.)

   




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

February 27, 1958

H. R. 8308 PASSED THE HOUSE FEB. 4

To Humanitarians: W '

A TREMENDOUS VICTORYHAS BEEN WON IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CRUELTY.
Yesterday, Representative Poage’s compulsory humane slaughter bill, H. R. 8308, was
passed overwhelmingly by a voice vote in the United States House of Representatives.

The debate preceding the vote was a thrilling event. Never before has the right of
animals to decent treatment been so ardently and forcefully argued in the halls of Con-=-
gress. We wish every one of you might have been in Washington to hear it. Mr. W. R.
Poage of Texas, the author of the bill, made a masterful presentation of the urgent need
for its enactment; and he and Mr. Harold D. Cooley of North Carolina, Chairman of the
House Agriculture Committee, dealt with the opposition’s agruments so honorably and
ably that no one could have opposed the bill from'conviction after listening to them.
Mr. William A. Dawson of Utah showed great courage and dedication in his strong and
persuasive support of the measure. (Secretary of Agriculture Benson, whose Opposition
has been of such value to our packer Opponents, lives in Mr. Dawson’s Congressional
District). These men and Mrs. Martha Griffiths of. Michigan, who introduced the first
humane slaughter bill in the House, deserve our eternal gratitude.

An attempt to amend the bill into a “study" bill (the packers‘ way of trying to stOp
the measure) met with defeat, as did other efforts to prevent its passage. One amendment
was adopted with the approval of the House Agriculture Committee. The amendment
makes no change in the meaning or effect of the bill. It simply clarifies it to the satisfac-v
tion of what Representative Abraham Multer of NeW‘York characterized as the “overv-
whelming majority" of Jewish groups and individuals, thereby gaining their support for

the measure.

Now the bill must be passed by the Senate. Your letters, and those of citizens like

you, brought home to all Congressmen the great demand for the bill. So pleasekeep
writing till the bill is enacted.

The first thing to do is to write to each member of the Senate Agriculture and
Forestry Committee listed below. Please ask your friends to do the same. Anyone who
cannot write every member of the Committee should be sure to Write the member from
his State or the State nearest him. Please help in every way you can to get a record
number of individual letters to these Senators now. The bill is expected to be considered
by the'Committee at its first meeting in March. Ask them to take favorable action on
S. 1497, the Senate bill identical with H. R. 8308. The more quickly the bill comes to a
vote, the better its chances of passage.

We should be pleased if you would forward to us any favorable answers you may
receive. Thanks again for your good work for the animals. If we all keep working as hard
"as we can, there will be a law on the books, in this session of Congress, to put an end to
slaughterhouse cruelty. Let us know if you need more free leaflets.

Sincerely,
Madeleine Bemelmans, President

Christine Stevens , Sec retary= Treasurer

Members of Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry

 

Hon. Allen J. Ellender of Louisiana . Hon. George D. Aiken of Vermont
Hon. Olin D. Johnston of South Carolina VHon. Milton R. Young of North Dakota
Hon. Spessard L. Holland of Florida Hon. Edward J. Thye of Minnesota
Hon. James O. Eastland of Mississippi Hon. Bourke B. HickenIOOper of Iowa
Hon. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota Hon. Karl E. Mundt. of South Dakota
Hon° W. Kerr Scott of North Carolina Hon. John J. Williams of Delaware
Hon. Stuart Symington of Missouri Hon. Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas
Hon. Herman E. Talmadge of Georgia

(All may be addressed: Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C.)

 




EXCERPT FROM A STATEMENT BY HON. w. R. POAGE (D. TEXAS) IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FEB. 4, 1958, ON HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION

(Mr. Poage's bill, H. R. 8308, to require the use of humane methods of
slaughter by packers who wish to contract with the federal government
was passed overwhelmingly by the House of Representatives on that date)

"They still kill hogs by bleeding them to death on the gruesome wheel-~an instru-
ment of torture to which live conscious hogs are shackled in an endless line with a
dozen or more being lifted some 12 or 15 feet into the air to slowly and relentlessly
move through possibly 50 feet of space where they come even with a sticker. A sticker
my colleagues, is a man who stands on a bloody pedestal with a knife-~sharper at the ‘)
beginning of the day but certainly on many occasions in need of grinding-~with which
he sticks the jugular vein of the hog. He does not kill the hog. He is not there to
kill the animal. The hog-~or lamb and in some packing houses the calf--dies from.the
loss of blood as it is carried ever onward by the inexorable movement of the endless
chain to which it is attached by a steel chain around one hind leg. If the animal is
a hog it is shortly drapped into a vat of boiling water. In most cases it has lost
consciousness but numerous exceptions are reported.

"Your committee believes that more humane methods should be employed... I trust
that this bill may have the overwhelming support of this ﬁbuse."

EXCERPT FROM A STATEMENT BY HON. WILLIAM A DAWSON (R. UTAH) IN THE HOUSE OF REPRE-
SENTATIVES, FEB. 4, 1958, ON HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION

"I am one of the original sponsors of this legislation. May I confess that I
started out as a reluctant sponsor. It is against my political philoSOphy generally
to favor legislation which compels any individual or business or industry to do some-
thing which should be done voluntarily. It was only after I had determined through
my own independent investigation that-~with the exception of all too few progressive
companies--the meatpacking industry was making little or no progress in this field,
only then did I decide humane slaughter legislation was necessary...

”I do not intend to go into lengthy descriptions of present methods of slaughter
now followed by most of our packing plants. I do think it is safe to say that there
is not a Member of Congress who would condone these methods if he witnessed them being
practiced on one dumb animal and knew that such practices were unnecessary. I submit
that corporate cruelty--if a ready alternative is available--is a fit subject for
legislative action.

"The enactment of this humane slaughter bill will not force an industry into un-
explored territory. Humane slaughter has been compulsory in Switzerland since 1874.
England adOpted a similar law in 1933. Other nations requiring humane slaughter are
Norway, the Netherlands, Scotland, Ireland, Finland, Sweden, New Zealand, and Denmark.
Years of experience in each of these countries has proved that humane slaughter
practices are economically beneficial to the industry.”

 




FROM: Society for Animal Protective Legislation
7h5 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Washington, D. 0., January 30. A bill requiring that
humane methods of slaughter of food animals must be used by
any slaughterer or processor who sells to the Federal Governe
ment will be voted upon on Tuesday, February 4, by the U. S.
House of Representatives.

The bill, H. R. 8308,was.,..sp‘ons'oried by the Hon. W. R. Poage
of Texas, Chairman of the Subecommittee of the House Agricul;
ture Committee. Mr. Poage conducted extensive hearings last
Spring and headed the group of Congressmen who inspected
slaughterhouses in various parts of the country.

Humanitarians throughout the nation.are united in
demanding passage of this legislation, which would require
food animals to be humanely stunned or anesthetized before
slaughter. They state that it must be enacted if the United

States is to have standards as a humane nation and world

leader equal to the standards of England, Scotland, Ireland,

Holland, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, New
Zealand, Fiji, as well as parts of Austria, Germany, France,
and Australia. Compulsory humane slaughter legislation has
been in effect in those countries for many years, Switzerland

being the first to adopt it, in 1874.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

January 30, 1958

To Humanita rians:

At last the news we have all been waiting for: H.R.8308, the humane

 

slaughter bill, has been scheduled for a vote by the full House of Representa—

tives February 4!

We must make sure that it passes. So even if you have written him

 

recently, wire or write an airmail letter to your Congressman again, asking
him to be sure to be on the floor of the House Tuesday to vote in favor of
H.R.8308 and give it his support in every possible way. Ask your friends to
do the same. All Congressmen should be addressed: House Office Building,
Washington, D, C,

Remember the wires and letters must reach the Congressmen before
or by the morning of February 4.

Your demands have brought this bill to a vote. Please help make sure

of victory now .
Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, SecretaryeTreasurer

P.S. Every sponsor of a compulsory humane slaughter bill deserves our
thanks. Special thanks are due to the Hon. W. R. Poage who, as Chairman of
the submcommittee which held the hearings, has worked with the greatest
selflessness and devotion for the committee bill which he introduced. The
Hon. Harold Cooley, Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, deserves
special thanks for his powerful and invaluable support of the measure. So,
after you have gotten off the top priority wire or letter to your Congressman
today, perhaps you would like to express your appreciation to Mr. Poage, to
Mr. Cooley and to the sponsors of Similar bills: the Hon. Martha Griffiths,
who introduced the first House bill, the Hon. George Miller, the Hon. William
A. Dawson, the Hon. Edgar W. Hiestand, the Hon. John L. McMillan and the
Hon. J. Carlton Loser.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

January 27, l 958

To Humanitarians:

The battle to achieve a merciful death for our food animals is
nearly won. Your help is needed now even more than ever before to convince
every member of the House of Representatives and the Senate that an effece
tive bill must be passed without further delay,

The enclosed leaflet shows graphically the cruelty unnecessarily
inflicted on lambs and other animals in routine slaughterhouse practice, It
gives suggestions on what every good citizen can do to bring an end to this
debasing cruelty. How many copies can you distribute? We will gladly send
you, free of charge, any number which you can put to good use. It is essen-a
tial that the greatest volume of mail ever yet received on this matter reach
Congressmen within the next two weeks.

We have received assurance that HoR. 8308 will be scheduled for
a vote by the full House of Representatives very early in the session. if it is
promptly passed by the House an as it will be if the public demand is suffim
ciently strong —- the next step will be to obtain enactment of S, 1497 in the
Senate. We will keep you informed of action taken, and we most sincerely
hope that our next communication will. announce that the House has passed
compulsory humane slaughter legislationo

Success depends largely on you, who have worked so devotedly to
bring about decent treatment of animals in slaughterhouses. Please do your
utmOst now to reach every conscientious person that you possibly can, and
urge him to write his Congressmen asking for immediate enactment of H,R,
8308. WE CANNOT PERMIT ANOTHER 100,000,000 ANIMALS TO SUFFER
THE ACUTE PAIN AND TERROR CURRENTLY lNFLlCTED IN THE MA~

JORITY OF SLAUGHTERHOUSES, THE LEGISLATION MUST BE PASSED
THIS YEAR,

 

Sinc er ely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, SecretarymTreasurer

 




     

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue, New York 22, N.Y.

August 14, 1957

To Humanitarians:

A last great effort must be made to obtain favorable action in the
House of Representatives on H.R. 8308, the humane slaughter bill, before Con-
gress adjourns. A

Here is what you can do to help - and please ask just as many other
friends and acquaintances as you can to help too.

1) Write to your Congressman again at the House Office Building,
Washington, D.C. (If you do not have his name, you can obtain it from your local
newspaper, library or political club.)

2) If he has promised to support H.R. 8308, thank him warmly and
ask him to request the Leadership of the House to bring it to a vote by the full
House of Representatives before adjournment.

3) If he has only promised “consideration" of the measure, ask him
again to vote for it and emphasize the following merits of H.R. 8308:

a) Will eliminate cruelty in the slaughter of the great majority of our
food animals. ‘

b) Guarantees complete freedom for all religious practices relating to
slaughter.

c) Protects workers in packing houses against physical injury and
against mental and moral suffering they now undergo because of inhumane
slaughtering systems still used by most packers.

(1) Will not penalize any packer large or small, because it offers the
incentive of government contracts to humane packers rather than fining or
imprisoning inhumane ones.

4) Send the enclosed quotations from newspaper editorials to your
Congressman or to your newspaper editor. If you need additional copies, let
us know, and we will send them to you. Ask your editor to print an editorial
urging immediate enactment of H.R. 8308.

This is the time when the greatest volume of mail must reach
the House of Representatives in order to win a merciful death for the animals
that provide us with food. Please do all you can to help them.

 

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

 

 




A “1.1m or RECENT EDITORIALS AND A‘LES

IN FAVOR 0F

HUMANS SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION

THE MILWAUKEE (Wis.) JOURNAL, June 20, 1957, "The calves are whisked
on to a shackling wheel and hung up, as many as 20 at a thme. When
the kill crew is small, calves hang by the rear foot for a couple
of minutes while the rack is loaded. Then they are stuck. Some

were still bawling six minutes after the first rush of blood, it
was noted."

THE WASHINGTON (D.C) POST AND TIRES HERALD, June 28, 1957, (Edit.)
”Is there any sense to this practice which inflicts wanton cruelty
on animals while subjecting men to work which is degrading as well
as dangerous? Rendering the animals unconscious before slaughter~
ing them would obviate this barbarity. This is all that the Poage

bill would require. It would introduce civilization into our pack~
ing houses."

13E SAN FRANCISCO (Calif.) EXAMINER, April 20, 1957, (Edit.) "Bills
to bring this about are again pending in Congress with the support
of the meane Society and General Federation of Women's Clubs,
among others. We would like to renew our support..... Brutality
always brutalizes him who employs it.”

THE BOSTON (Mass. ) HERAhD, January 24, 1957, (Edit. ) "If Congress
passes humane slaughter legislation at this session, much will
have been accomplished to curb misery. And, perhaps, much for

the human spirit as well. The toleration of the pole axe is an
evidence of a deeper social ill than mere inefficiency.” (Reprint-
ed in the FORT WAYNE (1nd.) NEWS SENTINEL, June 29)

 

THE NORTH VIRGINIA SUN August 6,1957, (Edit.) ”For a nation with

pride in its humanity, we should be ashamed of our record in this
legislative area ”

W (Mo. ) POST- DISPATCH April 8,1957 (Edit.) "who could
Oppose it?"

saw meow! (Utah) DESERET NEWS, February 20, 1957, (Edit.)
"If by law cruelty to a few animals is prohibited in the case of
bull and cock fighting, hOW'mUCh more important it is to prohibit
cruelty to the 119 million animals that are shipped to market

annually to supply the nation's tables with its 21 billion pounds
of meat 3 year.”

 

MOBILE (Ala ) w, May 10,1957 (Edit. ) ”By dragging their
feet in the face of rising public demand for the use of more humane
methods in slaughtering meat animals, packinghouses invite the
very federal regulation they oppose."

WASHINGTON MERRY— GO- ROUND, Drew Pearson column, March 24,1957,
”Rota Senators Bennett and Watkins of Utah may propose that
Congress authorize 'study' of the problem. This is the time~

honored way to block a proposal that can‘t be fought on its
merits."

W (Comm) COURAN'I‘, March 21, 1957, (Edit.) "aumane slaughter-
ing 1eSislation has long been needed in this country, and Gongress
this year should stand fast against inertia and stubborness.”

Woo.) GAZETTE April 11, 1957, (Edit.) "We cannot con-
tinue to pose as civilized peOple if we continue to condone some

of the inhumane methods that are used in slaughtering defenseless
animals.“

LABOR' 8 DAILY, February 23,1957"...one of America's most amazing
grassroots lobbies rolls into Operation again. Unlike most pressure '
groups, this one is net well- -organized. Its members belong to both
parties and probably to half a dozen splinter parties as well. ,
They range from rich old New England dowagers to Chicago packing
plant workers. They are in every state of the union and in the
territories. They cross every racial and religious line.....

Who are they? Anhmal lovers' " -

 




somew FOR AMMAL morscwe LEGlSLAHON
2’45 Fifth Avenue - - New York 22,. N. Y.

June 29, 1957

To Hemanitarians:

Good news! The Committee on.Agrioulture of the United States House of
Representatives has just given a favorable report on a good humane slaughter bill,
H.R° o308. Your help has been vitally important in reaching this first victory.
It is still much needed to get the hill through the Rules Committee to the floor
and to a successful vote, so please alert your friends for the next big effort:

1) Please write your Congressman at the House Office Building,

Washington, D. C. urging him to support humane slaughter bill H.R. 8308
which has just received a favorable report from the Agriculture
Committee. Please ask him to urge the Rules Committee to'bring it out
promptly.

2) Take the enclosed news release to the editor of your local
newspaper and request him to publish an editorial favoring immediate
enactment of the hill.

3) Let us know what response you receive from your Congressman,
for this will assist us in efforts to obtain enactment of the bill-

The time is short before Congress adjourns. Your letters and those of
your friends will do much to encourage the rapid action that must be taken if the
humane slaughter hill is to become law in this session of Congress.

Please help again so that the animals will be protected soon against
the terrible cruelty in slaughterhouses.

Sincerely yours,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

 




 

 

June It, 1957

To Humanitarians: From: Society for Animal Protective legislation
7&5 Fifth Avenue, Room 812, New York 22, N. Y.

The battle for humane slaughter has reached a crisis. The packers are doing every-
thing possible to prevent a good bill from being reported out of the House.Agri-
culture Committee. That Committee is scheduled to meet in a few da s' time. Your
wires, phone calls or airmail letters to the member of tHE'Cbﬁﬁit ee rom your
state will be of vital importance in Obtaining effective legislation. PLEASE GET
IN TOUCH WITH HIM IMMEDIATELX. ASK YOUR FRIENDS TO DO THE SAME. (He should be
addressed: House Office Building, washington, D. C.)

This is the situation: The Sub-Committee which held the hearings on humane slaughter
met June 11th. At this meeting the Hon. W.R. Poage, the Chairman, presented a good
bill which would require action in 18 months and would impose sanctions on packers
through denial of government contracts to those who did not slaughter humanely.
Certain other members of the Committee suggested that all that was needed was a
resolution expressing hope that the reforms would be made voluntarily. An.Assistant
Secretary of Agriculture was also present and he discouraged effective action by
repeating the previous statement of the Department to the effect that they don’t
know what is humane and what isn’t: Now the bill has been referred to the full
Committee which will have to make the choice between the compulsory bill and a false
and meaningless gesture.

To gloss over the completely unnecessary cruelty which is being routinely inflicted
on hundreds of millions of animals by enacting a bill merely to study the question
would be profoundly unworthy of our nation and of its lawmakers. By active campaign~
ing now, humanitarians can obtain effective legislation to protect animals in
slaughterhouses.

PIEASE PHONE, WIRE OR WRITE TODAY r0

rag-Hos. Pﬁﬁﬁ Eatinie
w ?-'< “Aﬂﬂ ,
TﬁﬁjﬂﬁﬁﬁmeﬁﬂL itﬁiﬁT

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION

745 FIFTH AVENUE, ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22, NEW YORK

May 11, 1957
To Humanitarians:

Since I wrote you on March 18, House Bill 384, the animal seizure bill. .
which would force humane societies to surrender dogs and cats from their shelters,
has been passed by the House and is now awaiting action by the Senate. If you
have not already written your State Senator in Opposition to this bill, I urge you
and your friends to do so now,

I also urge you to explain the position of humanitarians to the clergymen in
your area and ask them to take an active part in Opposing the legislation which
would compel humane societies to abandon their principleso it is particularly
important that clergymen be given the facts as they are, not as they are made to
seem to be, by the proponents of animal seizure legislation, This legislation is
immoral because:

 

Humane societies have an obligation toward each individual animal
which enters their shelters

Humane societies must always treat an animal with kindness and
not cruelty- «if he cannot be returned to his owner or placed in
a suitable home, he must be given a humane death

A society turning animals over for experimentation of any type
which the director of the laboratory sees fit to conduct, with
no limit set as to the degree or duration of suffering inflicted,
would be violating all its principleso There is much animal
suffering in laboratories.

Humane societies cannot in conscience act in complete disregard
of the expressed wishes of benefactors whose funds are being
used to operate their shelters; many of these donors, now
deceased, left money in their wills to be used to prevent
suffering rather than increase it“

Humane societies which have been cowardly enough to surrender to the
forces backing seizure legislation have lost the confidence of the general public,
who often choose to abandon their animals rather than turn them over to the
alleged “shelter”. I feel sure that if most clergyman know the true facts, they
will Oppose this insidious attempt to turn humane societies into procurement
agencies for experimental laboratorieso

The active efforts of all humanitarians are needed to step this cruel and
unnecessary legislation.

Please register your protests firmly and ask all your friends to do the same.
Sincerely,
Madeleine Bemelmans

President

P. SQ Your State Senator may be addressed at the State House, Columbus. If you
are not sure who he is, you can obtain his name from your local newspaper
or political organization,

 




SOCIEg FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE RGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812
New York 22, New York

To Humanitarians:

Your help is needed now to encourage enactment of compulsory humane
slaughter legislation. The Committee on Agriculture of the United States House of
Representatives must recommend enactment of such legislation before it can be voted
upon. By writing to the members of the Committee and asking your friends to do the
same, you can make a vitally important contribution to animal protection because it is
essential that each member of the Committee realize how strong and widespread is the
demand for compulsory humane slaughter legislation. Your personal letters will give
them tangible proof of the public demand for the legislation.

Each person who spends an hour or two at his desk today will be helping
to prevent extreme suffering for hundreds of millions of animals for years to come.

A leaflet giving information on the subject is enclosed. If you wish
additional copies of the leaflet or of this letter, we shall be happy to send them to you
without charge. Please help to stop this terrible cruelty by writing NOW to all
members of the Committee in your part of the country and to as many more as you
can. Their names are given below, and they may all be addressed at the House Office

Building, Washington, D. C.
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary— Treasurer

HO USE AGRIC ULT URE COMMIT TEE

Hon. Harold D. Cooley, Hon. W. Pat Jennings — Virginia
Chairman - North Carolina Hon. D. R. (Billy) Matthews - Florida

Hon. W. R. Poage - Texas Hon. August H. Andresen - Minnesota

Hon. George M. Grant - Alabama Hon. William S. Hill — Colorado

Hon. E. C. Gathings - Arkansas Hon. Charles B. Hoeven - Iowa

Hon. John L. McMillan - South Carolina Hon. Sid Simpson — Illinois

Hon. Thomas G. Abernethy — Mississippi Hon. Paul B. Dague - Pennsylvania

Hon. Carl Albert - Oklahoma Hon. Ralph Harvey - Indiana

Hon. Watkins M. Abbitt - Virginia Hon. Page Belcher - Oklahoma

Hon. James G. Polk — Ohio Hon. Clifford G. McIntire - Maine

Hon. Clark W. Thompson — Texas Hon. William R. Williams -— New York

Hon. Paul C. Jones - Missouri Hon. Robert D. Harrison - Nebraska

Hon. John C. Watts — Kentucky Hon. Henry Aldous Dixon - Utah

Hon. Harlan Hagen - California Hon. Wint Smith - Kansas

Hon. LesterR. Johnson - Wisconsin Hon. Otto Krueger - North Dakota

Hon. Victor L. Anfuso - New York Hon. Charles M. Teague - California

Hon. Ross Bass - Tennessee Hon. Donald E. Tewes — Wisconsin

Hon. Coya Knutson - Minnesota

 




 
  

 

  

   

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

 

March 25, 1957

The enclosed leaflet gives information on the urgent need for
compulsory humane slaughter legislation. We most sincerely hope
that you will support the bills whose enactment would effectively
protect our farm animals against cruelty. They are H. R. 176,
H.R. 2280, H. R. 3029, H.R. 3049 and H.R. 5671. Hearings on
these bills will be held April 2nd.

We respectfully urge you to defeat H. R. 5820, a humane
slaughter bill in name only, which would postpone still further the
day, already long overdue, when these animals will be spared the
atrocious and unnecessary pain and terror they now undergo in most
slaughterhouses. The packers are supporting H. R. 5820 because
they fear that ”enactment of some kind of humane slaughter law is
almost inevitable”, to quote one of the industry's major trade
magazines, The National Provisioner. They hope to create confusion
with this bill and its counterpart in the Senate, which speak in glowing
terms of humane slaughter and create a committee to study it for two
years. The effect of the packers' "study" bill would be to perpetuate
the present cruel methods of slaughter.

Please do everything in your power to prevent any further
delay in outlawing this unnecessary cruelty.

Sincerely yours, ‘

President

 




. wow ;///;~7

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22, NEW YORK

March 18, 1957

To Hhmanitarians:

You are no doubt aware that an animal seizure bill
has been introduced into the Ohio legislature. This bill
seeks to force humane societies to surrender dogs and cats
from their shelters, for use in experiments of any type which
the director of the laboratory sees fit to have conducted.
There is no limit set to the degree or duration of suffering
which could be inflicted on these animals. It is essential
that this legislation be defeated»

You and your friends can give valuable assistance
by writing to your State Senators and Representatives to tell
them how you feel about it. You may Obtain their names from
your local library or newspaper office, and they may be
addressed at the State Capitol, Columbus, Ohio. Please write
promptly to urge the defeat of this anti-humane bill.

Sincerely,

I}: 31" 5‘ \ ,' '
r , a .15 . «2 ..
, . x _. H; ’. , ~ ‘r’ ‘31 ,. ‘ v 2,".
M... , a: album. 2M” -..-::w"j.&../:zf.-.:. at} 4.- 2 2
.-.,‘..l,v' ‘ "‘"" ‘ w “Hg‘wrr -..-""

.,g~.~4c .2 is
President

 




ADDITIQQAI.NEW’FACTS ABOUT REMANE §LAUGHTER

March 8, 1957

Packers in the United States can now purchase carbon dioxide anesthe-
tizing equipment in the same general price range as their counterparts in
Europe. The Chicago manufacturers, Allbright-Nell and Co., have put on the
market a machine which anesthetizes 60 hogs per hour. It costs about $3,500.
For major packers, the largest machines, anesthetizing 600 hogs per hour,
cost about $39,000 plus about half that amount for installation. Kingan
and Company of Indianapolis has just installed two of these, together with
mechanical bleeding conveyors. (These conveyors are not necessary for
humane purposes.)

The Schermer stunner, used for decades in Europe to stun all types of
animals, is now available on the American market. This is in addition to
the stunner manufactured by the Remington Arms Company and the Cash—X
pistol, both of which are in use in a number of American plants. All of
these stunners cost between $100 and $220.

Clearly, every packer who would be affected by H. R. 176, H. R. 2880,
H. R. 3029 or H. R. 30h9 can afford to purchase and use a humane slaughter
device. (The bills would affect only the 500 to 600 plants engaged in
interstate or foreign commerce.) Humane slaughter pays for itself in
bruise reduction and better operation.

The humane methods are available, but the majority of packers continue
to slaughter the majority of animals in the old, cruel ways. They try to
avoid the use of humane methods by repeating the same line they have used
ever since "The Committee for Improved Slaughtering Methods" of the American
Meat Institute was formed 29 years ago: "More research is necessary before
we can become humane." hey dare not oppose humane slaughter outright, so
they seek to put it off indefinitely with "study groups" and "research."

A bill which would achieve this unworthy purpose has been introduced in the
Senate (S. 1213). It has the support of the big packers. They oppose the
good House bills listed above, all of which would make the use of humane
methods compulsory.

 

All these bills give a.two-year period for compliance and a further
extension in any special case by the Secretary of Agriculture.

No packer could suffer injustice under such legislation. .But if.
this legislation is not passed, more hundreds of millions of anlmals Wlll
suffer tortures for which no rational excuse can be given.

Compulsory humane slaughter legislation should be enacted in 1957.

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue;2 Room 812
New York 22,, New York;

 




 

 

March 6, 1957

To Humanitarians from the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation:

The extreme pain and fear which hundreds of millions of
animals undergo in slaughterhouses can and should be stopped
by law. Every humane person can help to obtain enactment of
such a law. Bills are now pending in the United States
Congress which would outlaw the cruel method now routinely
used to kill helpless calves and lambs, sheep and pigs:
shackling them with a heavy chain round one hind leg, hauling
the terrified animals into the air, sticking them with a
kniie, and leaving them to bleed to death. Instead, packers
would be required to anesthetize the animals or to render them
instantly unconscious. The hammer which so often fails to
stun the cattle on which it is used would be replaced by
instantaneous one-shot mechanical stunners. There would be
no more repeated hammering of the heads of struggling creatures
imprisoned in the knocking pen.

You can help to stop this untold suffering, which is as
needless as it is cruel. Please sign your name and address
to the enclosed petition and return it to us promptly. There
is space for signatures by your friends and neighbors too.
Please be sure that complete addresses are given, for petitions

of names without addresses are worthless. Return the
petition to us just as quickly as possible so that we can
present it with many others to Congress. Your assistance

will be extremely valuable, and we thank you in advance for
cooperating in the tight against this great cruelty which must
be Outlawed this year.

Additional information may be obtained by writing to
the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, 745 Fifth
Avenue, Room 812, New York 22, New York.




We, the undersigned, most earnestly and respectfully
urge you to do everything in your power to obtain enactment
of compulsory humane slaughter legislation in this session
of Congress. we do not want study group” legislation on
this matter. Hundreds of millions of animals are going
through torments for which there is no reason and no excuse.
Practical methods of anesthetizing or instantly stunning them
are available. But only a small minority of packers have
adopted them voluntarily.

A Federal law requiring the use of humane methods is
necessary to bring an end to this great cruelty. Please
do not permit favorable action upon the compulsory humane
slaughter bills now pending to be delayed.

NAME: ADDRESS:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




From: Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N, Y,

March 1, 1957
For immediate release:

Hearings on four bills which would require adoption of humane methods of
slaughter of food animals will be held on April 2, Representative Harold D, Cooley,
Chairman of the Agriculture Committee of the House of Representatives, said today,

At the time the four bills were introduced, their sponsors made clear the
urgent necessity for their enactment, The Hon, William A, Dawson (R, Utah) sponsor
of H,R, 3029, said, “Hundreds of millions of animals yearly are killed by methods we
would not condone if practiced by one individual against a helpless animal in our
presence, . oThat the animals” collective screams of pain are heard only by the few
does not lessen the general guilt once we have been made aware of the practice,

What we will not condone in one cruel human against one defenseless animal, we
cannot condone in an industrymhowever valuable and necessarywagainst a mass of
defenseless animals, 0 ,Anyone who has Visited a standard packing plant and heard
the animals, screaming in fright and agony, dangling from one leg, sometimes
breaking their own pelvis in their writhing, could be hard put defending the present
method of slaughter as humane, Comparing this method with the painless bleeding
to death of an unconscious animal is like comparing death in a gas chamber with
drawing and quartering, or breaking someone on the wheel,“

The Hon, Martha Griffiths (D, Micho), Sponsor of HOR, 176, said, ”Legislation
in this area is certainly long overdue, Daily, we attempt to lead nations in matters
of foreign affairs, often emphasizing and stressing the fact that we are a. nation
guided by humane principles, Such reasoning must appear hollow to people who long
ago recognized the need for compulsory humane slaughter legislation and did somew
thing about it, Besides the humaneness of the thing, a compelling reason for modern»
izing slaughtering methods is the fact that accidents would be drastically reduced

The latest figures of the Department of labor show that accidents occur at almost
double the rate in slaughterhouses as for all industrial actiVVity combined, 0 o It is my
earnest hope that humane slaughter legislation will be acted upon faVorably during
this session of Congress I am certain that you will find an overwhelming majority
of our peOple in agreement,”

The Hon, George Po Miller (D Calif ), sponsor of H R, 2880, said, ”Practical,
humane methods are available, Let 3 let these animals down eas aye”

The Hon, Edgar Hiestand (R° Califo), sponsor of HR, 3049, said, “Last year
nearly 90 million hogs, 90 million lambs, 20 million cattle and M) million calves
were put to death by techniques which have been outlawed as too cruel by most
European countries, Offending the sense of decency and humanity of many millions
of peOple is a serious thing, Damage to human sensibility, in my opinion, lowers
morale and ideals, Americans need not tolerate a breaking down in moral. fibre of
the people,”

In what appears to be an attempt to block passage of compulsory humane
slaughter legislation, a packerasupported bill has been introduced in the Senate by
Senator Bennett (R, Utah) for Senator Watkins (R, Utah), It would provide for study
of humane slaughtering methods without, however, requiring any packer to use them,
The packers have been giving official “study” to humane slaughter since 1929 when
they announced that they would voluntarily adopt humane methods, To date, however,

only three major packing companies have adopted humane methods for even a part of
the animals they slaughter,

 




  
 

 

 

Society for Animal PrOtectiVe Legislation

745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812
New York 22, New York

 

March 1 , 1 957

To Humanitarians:

The battle to obtain compulsory humane slaughter can be won this year° Our
strength has increased greatly, But there is a new hazard to combat, which is caused
by that very strength, The packers fear that “enactment of some kind of humane
slaughter law is almost inevitable," to use the words of The National Provisioner,

To prevent passage of compulsory legislation, 2. Department of Agriculture spokesman
recently urged packers to support ”study group" legislation to do ”research” on
humane slaughter, Last week 'just such a bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator
W, F. Bennett (R,, Utah) for Senator A. V. Watkins (R0, Utah). The number of this

bad bill is So 1213, and it must NOT be passed, If it were passed, the compulsory
legislation that is absolutely essential to obtain a merciful death for our meat animals
would be twice as difficult to enact.

Four good compulsory humane slaughter bills have been introduced in the
‘House of Representatives, They are: H,Ro 3029, H,R. 176, H.R. 2880 and H,R, 3049.,
Statements by their sponsors are enclosed with‘this letter, and it would be most
helpful if you would take these statements to your loCal newspapers and urge them
to write an editorial in favor of COMPULSORY humane slaughtero

The time has come to write, and to urge all your friends to write letters,
urging immediate favorable action on the compulsory humane slaughter bills nOW
pending in the House of Representatives, PleaSe write to your own Representative
and then write to as many members of the House Agriculture Committee as you
cano Please be sure to write to all those in your part of the country, All may be
addressed at House Office Building, Washington, Dc Co (A list of the members of the
committee is given at the bottom of this page.)

This year it is not enough to ask for passage of humane slaughter legislation,
It is essential to specify COMPULSORY humane slaughter legislation, and to tell
legislators that you will NOT be satisfied with ”study group” legislation, The packers
have been studying humane slaughter for 29 years, but hundreds of millions of sentient
creatures, the vast majority, are still being slaughtered in terror and pain. Practical,
humane methods of slaughter are available. The time for study groups is pasto It is
high time for action to stop this abominable cruelty,

Sinc erely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary» Treasurer

 

HOUSE AGRIC ULTURE COMMITTEE

Harold D, Cooley, Chairman = North Carolina W, Pat Jennings -= Virginia

W, R, Poage Texas Do R, (Billy) Matthews a Florida
George M, Grant a Alabama August H, Andresen a Minnesota
E, C, Gathings == Arkansas William So Hill «- Colorado

John Lo McMillan - South Carolina Charles Bo Hoeven .,. Iowa
Thomas G, Abernethy a Mississippi Sid Simpson =- Illinois

Carl. Albert «a Oklahoma Paul B, Dague =-' Pennsylvania
Watkins M, Abbitt «a Virginia Ralph Harvey =~ Indiana

James G, Polk a Ohio Page Belcher «a Oklahoma

Clark W, Thompson m Texas Clifford G, McIntire a Maine
Paul C, Jones == Missouri William R, Williams a New York
John C0 Watts «a Kentucky Robert D, Harrison =- Nebraska
Harlan Hagen a California Henry Aldous Dixon ~2= Utah
Lester Ro Johnson a Wisconsin Wint Smith -‘ Kansas ‘
Victor L, Anfuso .-.-. New York Otto Krueger as North Dakota
Ross Bass a Tennessee Charles Mo Teague .. CalifOrnia

  

Coya Knutson Minnesota Donald E, Tewes a» Wisconsin

  




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

January 29, 1957

To Humanitarians;

You are no deubt aware that an animal seizure bill
(Senate Bill 315) has been introduced into the Massachusetts
legislature, This bill seeks to force humane societies to surrender
dogs and cats from their shelters, for uSe in experiments of any
type which the director of the labOratory sees fit to have conducted. -
There is no limit set to the degree or duration of suffering which
could be inflicted on these animals, It is essential that this
legislation be defeated. L '

You and your friends can give valuable assistance
by writing to your State Senators and Representatives to tell them
how you feel about it. You may obtain their names from your local
library or newspaper office... and they may be addressed at the State
House, Boston. Please write promptly to urge the defeat of this '
antiwhumane bill, I

Sincerely.

 




TO HUNANE SOCIETIES :‘

Many humane societies have received a mimeographed postcard making
false accusations against the Animal Welfare Institute and against me,
personally. These postcards are anonymous for all intents and purposes since
the sender is identified only as "Animal Emergency Defense Committee, Michigan
Branch", and no address is given. The only clue so far available is the fact
that the postcards which have reached me were postmarked Chicago.

The totally untrue assertion that I am "the paid agent and spy" of
the ”National Research Bureau, the American Medical Association and other
Vivisection, Sadistic and Dog Torture Groups" is, in the opinion of our
attorneys, libellous and its mailing is prohibited by the postal laws. I
should greatly appreciate any information which might help to identify the
person or persons responsible.

My greatest concern is that sincere humanitarians might possibly

be misled by this ugly libel, and the work of the organizations with which

I am connected be jeopardized. Because the postcards refer to "The Animal
Welfare Institute for Protective Legislation", there would seem to be confusion
between two organizations: The Animal welfare Institute and the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation. The latter is devoting its efforts to obtain
enactment of compulsory humane slaughter legislation, and it cannot afford

to lose the cooperation of any sincere humanitarian in this difficult campaign.

It is ironical that the Animal Welfare Institute should be attacked
with equal virulence by the writers of the above-mentioned postcard and by

the National Society for Medical Research which takes the opposite View and
maintains that we have “been making all the points in the AV propaganda bag1"
"always stand with the anti—vivisectionists”, etc. .

Regardless of what may be said and whether it is said in malice
or in ignorance of the facts, the Animal Welfare Institute and the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation will continue to use every means at their
disposal to reduce the pain and fear inflicted on animals by man.

dincerely,
Christine Stevens
President, Animal Welfare Institute

Secretary-Treasurer, Society for Animal
Protective Legislation

December 13, 1956

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION

745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

‘November 19, 19 56

To Humanitarian s:

In response to our last general communication, a considerable number
of letters have been received from Republicans who took exception to our support
of Adlai Stevenson because he pledged his support of humane slaughter legislation.
One letter said: ”Did our beloved president Dwight David Eisenhower say he would
not stand against cruelty when animals are slaughtered? Ask him for his support.
I think he will do all that Adlai Stevenson promises and more. "

Although the President has not made his views known in answer to letters
addressed to him last year on this subject, we are the first to admit that we may
have been wrong in assuming that he will not support this legislation in the coming
Congressional session. Nothing would please us more than to be proved wrong.
That is the reason why we are passing along the above quotation from our mail.

We hope that all humanitarians and especially all of you who vote Republican will
write to President Eisenhower and urge other humane and influential Republicans
of your acquaintance to write too begging him to say the word that will bring an end
to Secretary Benson's opposition to compulsory humane slaughter legislation.

The President has expressed love for animals; he has just recently visited
his farm and inspected his Aberdeen Angus cattle. Surely he cannot be aware of
the pain and terror which these and all other meat animals are likely to undergo
because most packers will not use humane methods unless compelled to do so by
law. If the President were informed about the humane methods which are in every
day use in a few plants and of the fright and torment they spare the animals, if he
knew of the anxiety of great numbers of Americans for a humane slaughter law, if
he realized that more mail reached legislators on this subject than on any other in
the past Congressional session, if he realized that his Secretary of Agriculture
stood with selfish packer interests to kill the legislation, if he realized that the
Secretary's claim that packers will voluntarily adopt humane methods is false -
that the packers have promised for 29 years to adopt humane methods and that no
country has ever obtained merciful death for its food animals until a compulsory
law was passed -»- then he would surely tell Secretary Benson to give a favorable
report on compulsory humane slaughter legislation when it is introduced in the
coming Congressional session.

If he does this, the legislation will pass.

We urge that every letter addressed to the President be respectful, that it
be clear as to the urgent necessity for the passage of a compulsory law, for the
reasons given above, and that it sincerely express your humane feelings. The
President can read only a very few of the thousands of letters addressed to him,
but yours may be the one that tells him what he needs to know. Please write it now.

Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Ludwig Bemelmans, President

Mrs. Robert Gesell,
Chairman Committee on Humane
Slaughter

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22, NEW YORK

November 1, 1956

TO HUMANITARIANS :

Enclosed is a statement by.Adlai E. Stevenson on compulsory
humane slaughter legislation. Mr. Stevenson is the first candidate for
President of the United States ever to pledge his support to help suffering

animals.

For the sake of these animals, won't you go to your

telephone right now and call all your humane~minded friends to inform them of
Mr. Stevenson's strong stand against cruelty? Every sincere humanitarian
should help to elect the man who believes in decent protection for animals.
By doing so we can take a giant step toward achieving the major advances
in the protection of animals for which we have waited so long.
Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Ludwig Bemelmans, President

Mrs. Robert Gesell,
Chairman Committee on Humane
Slaughter

 




ADLAI Ea STEVENSON'S MESSAGE IN SUPPORT OF
HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION
Pittsburgh, Penna.
November 1, 1956
The Hon. Martha W. Griffiths
Member of Congress
Grand River, Michigan

I have received your telegram concerning the bill for humane slaughter

which you introduced in the House and which was introduced in the Senate

by Senator Humphrey. From my knowledge of these bills I understand that

they embody the following objectives: to abolish present painful and
inhumane methods of slaughter now widely used throughout the country,

to protect the slaughterers from bodily injury, to eliminate waste and
to ensure greater cleanliness in animals that are killed for human
consumption. I want to assure you that I am most certainly in agreement
with these Objectives and that I will give this legislation the care~
ful consideration and support that it obviously deserves. I appreciate
your taking the trouble to wire me and I hope that I may‘discuss this
matter with you and Senator Humphrey at some time in the near future.

Adlai E. Stevenson

 




Sow PL 5v;

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

July 30, 1956

 

To Humanitarians:

Major progress towards eliminating cruel methods of slaughter has been
made. The enclosed. news release gives information on the current situation.

Powerful Opposition to compulsory humane slaughter may be expected to

. continue, (the meat packing industry is the second biggest industry in the
country) but it cannot hold out against sustained public demand and publicity.
It is up to every humane organization and individual to bring the deplorable
conditions in slaughter-houses to the attention of citizens in every possible
wayo Even though newspapers* in all parts of the country have published
editorials strongly supporting compulsory humane slaughter, most people
are still unaware (I) that animals suffer extreme pain and fear in slaughter-
houses and (2) that such suffering is completely unnecessary because prac-
tical, humane methods are available. '

Please give the enclosed news release to the Editor of your local newsPapei;
and askhixn to publish an editorial or report on ito if you need additional
information, please let us know, and we will be glad to send it to you or to
others whom you. may wish to designate-o The testimony at the Hearings cone—
ducted by Senator Humphrey has been printed and is available from the Clerk
of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Senate Office Building,
Washington, Dc C, Any impartial person who reads it will be convinced of the
necessity for prompt enactment of a compulsory humane slaughter lawo

 

We owe a great debt to Senator Humphrey and to Representatives Martha
Griffiths and Edgar Hiestand, With the help of people of good will both in
Congress and out, compulsory humane slaughter legislation can be enacted
in 1957.

V. Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary- Treasurer

* including the Detroit Free Press, The Christian Science Monitor, The
Washington Post, TheNew York Mirror, The St. Louis Post—Dispatch,
The San Francisco Calla-Bulletin, The San Antonio Light, The
St. Petersburg Times, The Louisville Times, and many others.

 




FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 30, 1956

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE
LEGISLATION

7M5 Fifth Avenue

New York 22, New York

For the first time in its history, Congress has recognized the
right of meat animals to a painless death. The Senate passed a
bill calling for a Department of Agriculture study to obtain the
use of humane methods, and the Chairman of the House Agriculture
Committee, Harold D. Cooley (D., North Carolina) announced that
a sub~committee will investigate slaughter houses during the
recess and report back so that prompt action can be taken by the
House of Representatives in the 1957 session of Congress.

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey (D., Minnesota) and Representatives
Martha Griffiths (D., Michigan) and Edgar Hiestand (R., California)
introduced similar measures to make humane slaughtering methods
compulsory. Hearings were conducted May 9 and 10 on the Senate
bill by Senator Humphrey, Chairman of a three men subweommittee
composed of Senator Karl Mundt (R., South Dakota), Senator W.

Kerr Scott (D., North Carolina) and himself. The sub—committee
gave a unanimously favorable report on the measure, but the full
Agriculture Committee removed the compulsory feature to which

the packers objected.

Proponents of the measure demand compulsory humane slaughter
because the packing industry has been promising to adopt humane
methods voluntarily for over 25 years, but, to date, only two
major packers have done so. Congress has been flooded with mail
from.housewives asking that the use of painless methods of killing
calves, lambs, hogs, sheep and cattle_be made compulsory.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

Your request addressed to the Animal Welfare Institute for

1

a list of pachers usin5 humane methods of slaughter was 5iven

u this Society because we have such a listiir available in orinted

‘ rm it the enclosed leaflet. we expect to h vs a more comprehensive
ls iig compiled in due course and Willo d - cooy to you as soon

a ossible; As you will note, the two Iiati or nally adve rtis‘d pa chin5
<

sm

:which use a humane metho' are the Geor5e A. Hormel Company
porn products) and the Oscar Bayer Company (ior beef products).
3rou live in a small community, inquiry should be addressed to
all, local packing plants, because there are a considerable number
of these which shoot all animals before sh achlin5 and bleedins.

+15
.L
C’
I

Also enclosed, for your informatior1 is a sampling of editorials
which have appeared in favor of humazie sl=u5hter le5 islation. It would
be extremely helpful if you would ask the editors of papers in your
locality to publish editorials on this subject. We took the liberty
of sending to you a letter dated July 12th asking you to write to
members of the Agriculture Committee of the House of Representatives
because we felt sure that you would wish to help to encourage the
enactment of compulsory humane slau5hter legislation.

With much appreciation of your kind interest in protecting
food animals against unnecessary suffering, I am

Sincerely,

Secretary~Treasurer

 




July 12, 1956

To Humanitarians:

Your help is greatly needed in the final effort
to Obtain enactment of the urgently needed humane slaughter legislation.
As you know, the time remaining till Congress adjourns is very short.

Please ask as many friends and acquaintances as
possible to write or wire each member of the House Committee on
Agriculture urging immediate favorable action on the humane slaughter
bills. Names of the Committee members are given below. They may be
addressed at the House Office Building,‘Washington, D.C.

Thank you for your assistance in protecting the
animals which need protection so badly.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens, Secretary~Treasurer
Society for Animal Protective Legislation
7h5 Fifth Avenue, Room 812

New York 22, New York

Hon. Harold D. Cooley, Chairman Hon. E. L. (Bob) Bartlett
Hon. W} R. Poage Hon. A. Fernos-Isern

Hon. George M. Grant Hon. Clifford R. Hope
Hon. E. C. Gathings Hon. August H..Andresen
Hon. John L. McMillan Hon. William S. Hill

Hon. Thomas G. Abernathy Hon. Charles B. Hoeven
Hon. Carl Albert , Hon. Sid Simpson

Hone Watkins.M..Abbitt Ron. Paul B. Dague

Hon. James G. Polk Hon. Ralph Harvey

Hon. Clark W; Thompson Hon. Harold O. Lovre

Hon. Paul C. Jones .Hon. Page Belcher

Hon. John C. watts Hon. Clifford G. McIntire
Hon. Harlan Hagen ’ Hon. William.R. Williams
Hon. Lester R. Johnson Hon. Karl C. King

Eon. Victor L..Anfuso Hon. Robert D. Earrison
Hon. Ross Bass Hon. Mélvin R. laird

Hon. Goya Knutson Hon. Henry'sldouerixon
Hon. W. Pat Jennings Eon. Mrs. Joseph R. Farring‘con
Hon. D. R. (Billy) Matthews

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812
NEW YORK 22, NEW YORK

June 28, 1956

To Hurnanitarians:

As you will see from the enclosed news release, the humane slaughter bill
has been reported out of the subcommittee. Now a last big effort is needed to help
secure its enactment in this session of Congress. Newspaper editorials asking for
its passage are of very great value and many humanitarians deserve especial
recognition for having obtained editorials in their local papers. Enclosed is a
sampling of excerpts from articles and editorials published in various parts of the
country.

If your local paper has not yet published an editorial in favor of humane
slaughter legislation, please send the enclosed quotations, news release, and leaflet
to the editor with a letter requesting him to support this urgently needed bill.
Please send clippings directly to Senator Hubert H. Humphrey's office (140 Senate
Office Building, Washington, D. C.) or to me for forwarding to Washington.

Letters asking for a favorable report on S. 1636 should be sent to Hon. Allen
Ellender, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Senate
Office Building, Washington, D. C. and to Hon. Harold D. Cooley, Chairman of the
House Committee of Agriculture, House Office Building, Washington, D. C. The
time is short, and it is es sential that the bill be reported out of committee, so as
to be voted on by Congress at the earliest possible date. Please ask all your friends
to write.

The sincere efforts of hurnanitarians all over the country have been
remarkably effective in bringing this long overdue legislation to a point where it
can be enacted. If we all cooperate, it should become law in the next few weeks.
Your help will have prevented an incalculable amount of terror and pain.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Sec retary-Treasurer

 




FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE JUN 28 1956

From: Society for Animal Protective Legislation
Room 812, 745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

The sub-committee of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry
has just reported favorably upon the humane slaughter bill (S. l636) which was
sponsored by Senator Humphrey of Minnesota and upon which public hearings
were held on May 9 and 10. Favorable action by the full Senate committee is
expected soon. Humane slaughter bills are also pending in the House of Repre-
sentatives, where they were introduced by Representatives Hiestand (R) of
California and Griffiths (D) of Michigan.

Humanitarians throughout the nation are united in demanding that this
proposed legislation, which would require food animals to be humanely stunned
or anesthetized before slaughter, should be passed before Congress adjourns in
July. It must be enacted if the United States is to have standards as a humane
nation and world leader which are equal to the standards of England, Scotland,
Ireland, Holland, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark. New
Zealand, Fiji, as well as parts of Austria, Germany, France and Australia.

Veteran observers in Washington state that members of Congress have
received more mail from constituents on these bills than on any other legislation
under consideration at this session. This mail is overwhelmingly in favor of
the bills. Another indication of the widespread interest in all parts of the
country is the number of newspaper editorials, feature articles and letters to
the editor which have appeared since January of this year. (A few of the editor-

ials and articles are listed below.)

 




. « . 1 33 m. “sum: :2; W5 e

A Sampling of Recent Articles and Editorials in Support of Humane Slaughter
Legislation

Detroit (Michigan) Free Press, June 5, 1956‘ (Editorial)

"A measure of civilization's height is the degree to which it puts aside barbarism
and cruelty in all their aspects. If means for slaughtering livestock are avail-
able which will stop any present suffering by the slaughtered animals, it seems
to us that the civilized thing to do is require their employment, "

Reprinted by the Troy Record, June 9, 1956 '

 

The Washington Post and TimegaHerald (Washington, D.C,) May 7. 1956
’ (Editorial)

 

”Cattle, sheep, calves and hogs are commonly killed in this country by techni-
ques which subject them to senseless terror and suffering. .. 536113150? Humphrey's
bill ought to become law. ”

Reprinted by: Florence (Alabama) Times and the §W(Alabama) 2.219%

Dail ,Way 21, l956, '
Erunswick (Georgia) News, May 23, 1956,
Endicott (New York) Bulletin, June 1, 1956,

W

The Christian Science Monitor, May 16, 1956, and others

 

Daily Mirror (New York City) June 22, 1956 (Editorial)

 

”Packers from Finland to Fiji have installed humane killing devices that make
our slaughterhouses look and sound like medieval dungeons. a 0 .Something deeper
than a squeamish repugnance toward blood motivates those who would see swift
reform. It is the abiding conviction that callous brutality has no place in our
society. ”

The Wichita (Kansas) Eaglg, February 2, 1956 (and others)

”If you saw a man do to a dog what I‘ve seen a man do to a hog, you’d tear him
apart, but it's happening to 90 million of them a year. 0 . 5. if only because turning
our backs on cruelty leaves callouses on our national conscience, let us resztst
this repetitious erosion of our human dignity.; ” (Paul Harvey)

ﬁt: Louis (Missouri) Post‘s-Dispatch, January 26, 1956 (Editorial)

 

"Repugnance to cruelty is still a test of civilizations ”

ChristianScience Monitor, Boston, Mass-a, March 16, 1956 (Editorial)

 

"Bills are pending before committees of both the Sena tee and the House of Repre-r
sentatives to require humane slaughtering in the United States. "
Reprinted by the Portland (Maine) Press Herawlgli ApriL 1956

 

May 31, 1956

”Most Americans would be surprised to learn that the United States is a back-
ward country, in one resPect at least, It is twenty-Jive to fifty years behind
many European countries in the deve10pment of humane methods of commercial
animal slaughtero"

(Josephine Ripley)

 




lguisville (Kentucky) Courier-Journal, May 18, 1956

 

”A captive ~bolt pistol for slaughtering small animals was demonstrated here
yesterday for the first timer . . . "

The Louisville (Kentucky) Times, January 38, 1956

”Only the club of legislation, swung vigorously, has, it seems, ended cruelty in
European slaughterhouses. “
(Tom Wallace)

June 6, 19 56

”o . e .at last the public is giving some attention to the horrors of old~style
slaughtering. "
(Tom Wallace)

June 6, 1956 (Editorial)

”. . e .under the leadership of President Theodore Roosevelt, a comprehensive
meat inspection law was enacted by Congress. It required that packing houses
be sanitary. But no law yet has required that the slaughter of food animals be
humane. A bill to this effect awaits action by Congress now. The 50th annivere .
sary year of the great Rooseveltian enactment would be an appropriate year for
its passage. ”

The Denver (Colorado) Post, May 10, 1956

“Members of the committee reported they had been flooded with mail supporting
the anti-v-cruelty bill introduced by Senator Humphreyo ”

Wilmington (Delaware) Journal, May 26, 1956 (Editorial)

"Senator Hubert Ha Humphrey. . 9 said... . o . e . c in our country, government com-

pulsion or regulation in any form is usually the result of neglect of individuals
or firms to make voluntarily the reforms the public interest demands. ”

The New Republic, June 18, 1956 (Editorial)

"For 20 years Swift and Armour the industry spokesmen have insisted that they
were perfecting hmnane killing methods and have pleaded for patience. Recent
tours of their plants establish that they have made no advances toward humane
slaughtering in 40 years. ”

Theﬁ. Petersburg (Florida) Times, June 11, 1956 (Editorial)

 

“We cannot be decent, humane people unless we try to do something to eliminate
brutality and suffering of food animals in the process of slaughter. ”

Claxton (Georgia) Enterprise, May 24, 1956 (Editorial)

"But this is once we should like to see the Congress do something for creatures
that have no vote and no way of speaking for themselves, ”

 




gouth Bend (Indiana) Tribune, April 26, 1956

 

"Pigs are shackled and then hoisted aloft by one leg. . . .Sometimes they are
plunged in vats of scalding water before death. "

Wheaton(lllinois) Journal, May 22, 1956

”Legislation as proposed by House Bill 8540 and Senate Bill S. 1636 now pending

would require that ”livestock and poultry be rendered insensible to pain by humane
means before knifed, shackled, bled or scalded. W

Kentuclgr Timesa-Star, June 5, 1956 (Editorial)

 

”Statement by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey. . . 9 'Whenever we shut our eyes to
cruelty and suffering whether among people or among anirnals, we are shutting
out part of. the spirit that has made America great, and makes us stand apart in '
the world as a nation that puts moral principles and decency above sheer material
value. "‘

Ashland (Kentucky).lndep§11dent, May 20, 1956

 

”Humane slaughter consists of instantaneously stunning animals with one blow or
rapidly anesthetizing them prior to shackling and bleeding."

Ann Arb£(Michigan) News, March 10, 1956 (Editorial)

”It is a curious paradox that a nation so compassionate in most of its dealings
should countenance cruelty in its midst. It is high time for Congress to take cor-
rective steps."

(Reprinted by the Christian Science Monitor)

May 29, 1956 (Editorial)

“Two days of hearings were held this month in Washington on a bill to require
humane slaughter of food animals, and not so surprisingly, the humanitarians
had all the better of the argument. "

Reprinted by the Brewster (New York) Standard, June 2, 1956

)W (Minnesota) Tribune, May 23, 1956 (Editorial ”For More Humane
Slaughtering Laws”)

“Senator Hubert H6 Humphrey. . .pointed out that humane methods of slaughter
were efficient and, where used, saved packers a considerable amount in operat-~
ing costs. ” .

Trenton (New Jersey) Sunday :I‘imes~Advertiser, April 229 1956

 

”The miserable, cruel methods prevailing in many abattoirs are a disgrace to
the nation. ”

Herkimer (New York) Telegram, May 25, 1956 (Editorial)

 

 

”With meat consumption in this country climbing to record highs and Americans
probably among the world's largest users of meat, it is expecially important
that measures should be taken to require humane treatment of meat animalso ”

 




Port eron (New York} Chronicle, May 17, 1956 (Editorial)

"That this matter has not received. earliet aﬁenﬂen is deplorable beyond words.
That it should conﬁrms to be permitted new that more hmnane methods are known
is inexcusable and indefensible» Congress should lose no time in Ming app 330*-
priate action. "

2193(New‘York) Record, May 23,, 1956' (Editorian'

“There seems no reason why the United States which prides itself on‘its adverse-
ed methods of almost everything audit—memes to be so symgetheﬁc 1n the face
of cruelty everywhere should be so backward in adopting humane methods of.
killing helpless animals for which. usually. 5.1: presumes so much sympathy. ”

New York Daily News, April I. l956-~

“It has been demonstrated that slaughtering can be accomplished humanely by
painlessly making the animals unconscious with gas and in other ways. "
(William H. Hemirix)

golumbu§_(0hio) Disgatchg May 17. 1956

"One local firm, the Herman Falter Packing Come; now uses a. rifle bullet to
stun cattle... . ’We started this a couple of years ago on the theory it would be
less painful. ' said John Falter. president. ".

(Sam Harvey)

M Cm(Wisconsin) Jemu'znme May 24. 1956 (Editorial)

"Hearings are being held on a. Senate bill which if passed would make it unlawe
ful for packing houses to slaughter animals by some of the present inhumane and
cruel methods. . a . Wide publicity can be helpful in arousing all g00d peOple ‘0
demand its passage soon."

Wichita (Kansas) Beacon. June ll. 1956

”The sounds of agony from American slaughterhouses should be stopped if this
nation wants to keep being considered humane. ”

 




 
  

   
 

 

(km * SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745~FIFTH AVENUE. ROOM 812

 
   
 

NEW YORK 22. NEW YORK

 
    

June 28, 1956

2”

Hon. Spe said L. Holland
Senate Of ice Building
Washington, D. C.

     
   
 

D ear Mr . Holland:

   
 
  

 
 

We hope that we may count on your support for the enactment
of humane slaughter legislation at this session of Congress. Enclosed
are excerpts from some of the editorials and articles published recently
in newspapers in various parts of the country which give some indication
of the great public demand to eliminate the wholly unnecessary pain and
fear being inflicted on more than a hundred million food animals each
year. Also enclosed is an informational leaflet.

     
 
   
   
   
  
  
  

Humane slaughter legislation is more than a quarter of a century
overdue in our country, and it is vital that we should take immediate
action to end the vast amount of preventable cruelty in slaughterhouses
by making it illegal. 7

Please feel free to ask us for additional information if we can be
of service to you.

Sincerely yours,

07%“; [52.04%

Mrs. Ludwig Bemelmans,
President '

 




EXCERPTS FROM.AN OPENING STATEMENT FOR
‘HUMANE SLAUGHTER HEARINGS
by
Senator Hubert H. Humphrey

Wednesday night, May 9, I956

 

There will undoubtedly be differences of opinion among witnesses
participating, and all will be giVen fair opportunity to be heard.
Regardless of differences of methods, however, I am extremely hopeful
that all of us can agree-on the objective of seeking improved and more
humane practices than now exist in too many instances.

We Americans are inherently humane people: We abhor cruelty in
any form. We dislike to see suffering, whether human or animal. It
is therefore in the best of American tradition to seek to eliminate as
much cruelty and suffering as we can.

Whenever we shut our eyes to cruelty and suffering whether among
people or among animals, we are shutting out part of the spirit that
has made America great, and makes us stand apart in the world as a
nation that puts moral principles and decency above sheer material value.

I know that some people who agree with the objective oppose the
idea of compulsion to obtain it. I might remind them that in our country
government compulsion or regulation in any form is usually the result of

neglect of individuals or firms to make voluntarily the reforms the public

interest demands.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION

The most important piece of legislation for
the prevention of unnecessary animal suffering ever to come before
the Senate of the United States is scheduled for Public Hearings
on May 9 and 10 by a sub-committee of the Committee on Agricul—
ture and Forestry composed of Senator Humphrey, Senator Scott
and Senator Mundt.

The bill, S. 1636, would require that painless
methods of slaughter be substituted for the routime cruelty still
being practiced in the large majority of slaughterhouses. WE '
earnestly hope that you will give this bill your most careful con-
sideration. If you do, we are confident that you will favor its im-
mediate enactment.

Recognizing the need of committee members
for concise, factual information on this matter, we have prepared the
enclosed series of questions and answers and hope that they will be
useful to you. We should be happy to provide you with additional
information and referance material at your request.

Opponents of 5.1636 assert that humane methods
of slaughter will be adOpted by the industry without legislation.
They said the same thing 27 years ago and convinced humane organi—
zations that legislation was unnecessary at that time. In the interim,
humane slaughter laws have been enacted in half a dozen other coun—
tries while American bred animals continue to die in pain and fear.
Neither in the United States nor in any other country have the animals
(except for a very small percentage) ever received a merciful
death before enactment 'of compulsory legislation.

We believe the United States should have
humane standards equal to EurOpean countries on our side of
the Iron Curtain, and it is our profound hope that you will take
action to make this possible.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans
Pr e sident

 




To Hum anitarians:

Every person who wants to prevent cruelty to animals wants humane
slaughter legislation to be enacted this year. But on February 15, 1956, accord—-
ing to a reliable source, a meeting is scheduled to take place in Chicago for the
purpose of defeating the humane slaughter bills (S. 1636, H. R. 8540 and H, R. 7672)
which are now pending in Congress... At this meetingwone of several attended by
representatives of American Meat Institute (the most powerful of the packers'
organizations), Independent Meat Packers' Association, American Humane Asso~
ciation, Massachusetts SPCA and others-~l am informed that a proposal will be
adopted to form "a committee to study" the various humane methods of slaughter.
This device, if successful, would delay action until so late in the session that
Congress, eager to adjourn early in an election year, would have insufficient time
to act upon the pending bills,

The set-up of the proposed committee would be elaborate enough-:to con~
Vince people who are only moderately well informed about slaughtering methods
that such a "study" would be sincerely undertaken and a necessary preliminary
to passage of legislation.

Theoretically, study has been underway for at least twenty—six years,
since the American Meat Institute formed its ”Committee on Improved Methods
of Slaughtering" in 1929, but it has taken no action toward replacing the present
cruel methods of slaughter. Two representatives of the Animal Welfare Institute,
one of whom had made a similar tour forty years before, recently visited the kill-
ing floor of a plant operated by one of the nation’s largest packers. Not a single
improvement to make slaughter less painful and frightening for animals has been
In ade in the forty-year interval.

Experts have pointed out that legislation need not be held up for study as
to which particular method of humane slaughter each packer can best install in
his plant; all pending humane slaughter bills allow two full years for compliance
and extensions in special cases to be granted by the Secretary of Agriculture.

It is essential that sincere humanitarians should be informed of the ap—
parent effort to defeat this legislation so that they can demand that all animal
protective organizations and their representatives stand united in private as well
as 39.. public to obtain its enactment. Sponsors of the legislation—in Congress feel
that any division of opinion on this matter among humane groups would make it
extremely difficult to get action in Congress.

Please write immediately to make sure that animal protective organiza—

tions to which you belong do not support "study" as a substitute for legislation in
this session of Congress. ‘-

Christine Stevens

*‘n a 3‘, ‘
(new: ,2 3M i z w , 350 Fifth Avenue
. 1,1 . , .3, ,.
February 10, 1956 his, ,1. ;, , 3..., M a: l. m , New York 1’ N. Y.

 

 




Society for Anilnal Protective Legislation

745 Fifth Avenue, New York 22, New York

Most calves, sheep, lambs and
pigs are hauled up by a chain
round one hind leg and sent
struggling to the sticker who
thrusts a knife into the con-
scious animal’s throat and
leaves it to bleed to death.

THIS FEAR AND PAIN CAN BE ELIMINATED

Pigs below have been anesthetized with carbon dioxide. Animals can also be instant-

aneously stunned with mechanical instruments to avoid cruelty.

 




EVERY CITIZEN CAN HELP to eliminate the
terrible and unnecerrary fear and pain in our slaugh-
terhouses.

The screaming, bellowing, bleating and groaning are
mmecermry. A humanely operated slaughterhouse can
be a quiet, decent place where no one need be
ashamed to work.

The shockingly bad safety record of the packing
industry is unnecewm'y. Slaughtermen should not be
compelled With conscious, terriﬁed animals
which often cause the men severe injuries.

The shame which every kindly person feels at eating
meat from cruelly mistreated animals is unnecessary.
Animals can be killed humanely.

WRITE TO WASHINGTON AND ASK ALL OF
YOUR FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES TO
WRITE TOO, ASKING FOR IMMEDIATE PAS-
SAGE OF THE HUMANE SLAUGHTER BILLS.
Ask that the Act take effect in two years or less.

Your Senators may be addressed at the Senate Ofﬁce
Building, Washington, D.C. Your Congressman i'may
be addressed at the House Ofﬁce Building, Washing-
ton, D.C. Secretary of Agriculture Benson may be
addressed at the Department of Agriculture, Wash-
ington, D.C.

Additional copies of this leaﬂet may be obtained,
free of charge, by writing to:

The Humane Society of Washtenaw
County
R. F. D. #2, Ann Arbor, Michigan

Routine Slaughter of Calves:
The calf is dragged aloft by a heavy chain
around one hind leg. The slaughterman seizes
one ear and cuts its throat as the calf cries out
in pain and fear. It is then left to bleed to death.

THIS CRUELTY
IS UN N ECESSARY !

Calves, sheep, cattle and hogs can easily be

made unconscious before they are shackled and
'have their throats cut.

PLEASE WRITE YOUR SENATORS
AND CONGRESSMAN TODAY

ASKING THEIR SUPPORT OF BILLS
NOW PENDING IN THE UNITED
STATES SENATE AND HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES TO R E Q U I R E

HUMAN E METHODS OF SLAUGHTER.

 




These pigs are being anesthetized before slaughter. Unlike the poor calves on the cover, they are sleeping peacefully,
and they will die without pain or foreknowledge because they are unconscious while being shackled and bled.

There are two other practical, humane methods of making animals unconscious before slaughter: 1) the captive bolt
pistol, and 2) electric stunning tongs. Still another stunning instrument is in process of development.

EVERY SLAUGHTERHOUSE CAN AND SHOULD ADOPT A HUMANE METHOD TO PREVENT THE
CRUEL SUFFERING NOW INFLICTED ON MILLIONS OF FOOD ANIMALS.

Experience shows that LEGISLATION IS NECESSARY. Laws requiring humane methods of slaughter are in force
in Great Britain, Holland, Switzerland, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, New Zealand, and parts of Austria, Germany,
and France. Until these laws went into effect, the majority of animals in these countries was subjected to the same
cruel methods of slaughter which are used in most American packing plants today. Only a small percentage of
packers in any country has ever adopted humane methods voluntarily. In the United States only two
nationally advertised packers have done so: the Hormel Company anesthetizes hogs with carbon dioxide; the Oscar
Mayer Company stuns cattle with a captive bolt pistol.

Last year Senator Humphrey introduced a bill in the United States Senate to require that food animals be rendered
insensible before killing. Congresswoman Martha Griffiths introduced an identical bill in the House of Representatives.
These bills were held over till the 1956 session. THEY SHOULD BE ENACTED INTO LAW THIS YEAR.

 




ll Loutine slaughter of sheep, lambs and most calves:

This is similar to hog slaughter, except that these
docile animals create less disturbance and in their
death struggles cause fewer injuries to the men.
Routine slaughter of cattle and some calves: 1)
The animals are driven into stunning pens, usually
2-4 at a time. 2) A knocker (a man with a long-
handled hammer) stands on a platform and tries to

hit the animal’s forehead in a manner to cause it to:

fall unconscious without doing too much damage to
pate and brains. A recent report on routine slaughter
at one of the biggest plants in the United States
states: ”On the ﬁrst blow with the hammer, the
knocker felled the first steer, whereupon the other
two terrified animals climbed all over the prone
body. With all this stumbling and lunging, it took
two blows to fell the others. By the time this was
done, the ﬁrst one was coming to and trying to get
to his feet. I counted nine additional blows with the
hammer before that one went out!” Ten to thirteen
blows are not uncommon.
* * >i< *

Humane slaughter requires that animals be in-
stantaneously stunned with one shot (as with the
captive bolt pistol or Remington stunning instru-
ment) or that they be rapidly anesthetized (as with
carbon dioxide) prior to shackling and bleeding.
(Hogs fall asleep in 5-8 seconds in 65% carbon
dioxide. If not slaughtered, they awaken within
three minutes and are willing to repeat the trip
through the carbon dioxide tunnel with no objection,
thus demonstrating the humaneness of this method.)

A quarter of a century ago, the maior
packers led the public to believe that they
would adopt humane slaughter voluntarily.
They are trying again in 1956 to convince
us that they will do so. But the maiority of
animals have never received a merciful
death in any country until compulsory hu-
mane slaughter legislation was enacted. If
the packers are willing to adopt humane
slaughter, they should have no obiection to
hills which give them two full years to do
so and allow them to choose the method
-they prefer.

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
Room 8l2. 745 Fifth Avenue
New York nNew York

. FACTS ABOUT .

HUMANE
' SLAUGHTER

What is the cost of humane slaughter?

A captive bolt pistol costs $100. Ammunition
costs 21/2¢ per animal. The cost of the new Reming-
ton stunning instrument, going into production short-
ly, will be in the same general range. The American
manufacturers of the carbon dioxide tunnel have no
set price, but the cost of a Danish model which
anesthetizes 240 pigs per hour is $4500 in Denmark.
Cost of carbon dioxide per pig is less than 1¢.

How does humane slaughter affect labor?

Men working on the killing ﬂoor show an over-
whelming preference for humane methods of slaugh-
ter. Humane methods enormously reduce noise, ac-
cident hazards, nervous strain, physical effort and
dirtiness of work in this area. Slight increases and
decreases in employment, depending on species of
animals and different methods used, could be ex-
pected to balance each other so there would be no
change in the overall employment picture.

Are humane methods of slaughter
practical and economical?

Yes. The two largest packing companies using a
humane method—the Oscar Mayer Company and the
George A. Hormel Company—adopted these methods
primarily for economic reasons.

Following is a partial listing of packers who volun-
tarily adopted a humane method of slaughter which
they have'used over a period of years in successful
competition with packers who use inhumane methods:

Using the captive bolt pistol to stun cattle prior
to slaughter are:

 




Oscar Mayer Co., Madison, Wisconsin; Seitz
Packing Co., St. Joseph, Missouri; Great Falls
Meat Co., Great Falls, Montana; Cudahy Broth-
ers Co., Cudahy, Wisconsin; Peters Packing C0.,
McKeesport, Pennsylvania; L. A. Frey & Sons,
New Orleans, Louisiana; Elsheimers Meat Prod-
ucts, West Union, Iowa; C. E. Richardsm& Sons,
Muscatine, Iowa; American Stores Co., Pueblo,
Colorado; Fresno Meat Packing Co., Fresno,
California; Chicago Dressed Beef, Worcester,
Massachusetts; Salter Packing Company, Vernon,
California; Triangle Meat Co., Chicago, Illinois.

Using carbon dioxide anesthetization of hogs
prior to slaughter is George A. Hormel Co., in
its Austin, Minnesota plant where the method
was invented and in its Fremont, Nebraska
plant where a subsequent installation was made
and a 90% reduction in internal ham bruises
effected by eliminating shackling, and sticking
the sleeping hogs in a prone position.

(An impartial survey by the well known journal
of business and ﬁnance, Forbes Magazine, Jan-
uary, 1956, ranks the Hormel Company ahead
of all other major packers for sound business
management.)

Is it practical to make the use of humane
methods of slaughter compulsory?

Yes. Compulsory humane slaughter legislation is
in effect in the following countries: (The dates in-
dicate the year when humane slaughter legislation
was enacted in each country)

Switzerland 1874 England 1935
Netherlands 1920 Finland 1934
Norway 1924 Sweden 1937
Scotland 1928 Fiji 1948
Ireland 1932 New Zealand 1951
Parts of France, Germany, Austria and Australia
have also enacted humane slaughter legislation.

Would livestock producers or consumers be
penalized ﬁnancially by enactment of humane
slaughter legislation?

No. The cost of humane slaughter is very small
and is more than made up by savings through reduc-
tion of bruised meat.

Is electrical stunning a necessary part of
humane slaughter?

No. The passage of humane slaughter legislation
would not affect the Department of Agriculture’s
ban on electrical stunning. Carbon dioxide anestheti-
zation, the Remington stunning instrument and the
captive bolt pistol are entirely sufﬁcient for the stun-
ning of all types of animals in all types of packing
plants. The results of recent scientiﬁc research in
the United States, Great Britain and Denmark (where
difﬁculties with electrical stunning led to lifting of
the humane slaughter regulations temporarily), will
undoubtedly be useful to the Department in con-
ﬁrming or modifying its present ruling. But the
desirability and practicability of humane slaughter
legislation is in no way dependent upon the one
method of stunning which is both complicated and
controversial: electrical stunning.

Why should the United States enact

compulsory humane slaughter legislation?

1. The inﬂiction of unnecessary suffering on ani-
mals is abhorrent to the majority of American citizens.

2. The United States is a world leader; its set
standards of humaneness should not be inferior to
those of the western European democracies, most
of which already have such legislation.

3. More than $50,000,000 worth of meat is wasted
annually in the United States through bruising.

Humane slaughter is an important factor in bruise
reduction.

What is the difference between humane
slaughter and the methods now used in
most American packing plants?

Routine slaughter of hogs: 1) The hogs are driven
into a pen and shackled with a heavy chain around
one hind leg. Common abuses are beating recalci-
trant hogs with the shackle (causing bruises), piling
up of hogs on the one being dragged aloft by a
mechanical pulley, breaking of leg or pelvis of
heavy hogs, hog’s foot slipping out of the shackle
so that the animal falls from a height on top of
the others. 2) Hogs are carried aloft over a 14-foot
wheel to the sticking area, where a man with a knife
cuts the jugular veins of the screaming animals,
which then are left to bleed to death. Improperly
stuck hogs have been known to go into the scalding
tank while still alive and conscious.

 




‘ S AVE;

CHRISTINE STEVENS
350 Fifth Avenue
New York 1, New York

2%;
December 27, 1955

 

Mrs. Helen Nillman
307k Meadowbrook Blvd.
Cleveland, Ohio

Dear Mrs. Millman,

The humane slaughter bills introduced by Senator Humphrey and Representative
Griffiths are being reintroduced in the next session of Congress. Meanwhile, all
of us who want to stop the terror and suffering caused by present slaughtering
methods in this country need to express our opinion to legislators and government
officials, and to ask as many other people to do so as we possibly can.

The Department of Agriculture reported.unfavorably on the bills, stating
that it was in favor of the intent of the bills but that it felt private enterprise
should be left to do the job. .

Since 1893 Switzerland has had a law requiring that animals be rendered
unconscious prior to shackling and bleeding. In the intervening years, eight
other European countries have followed suit, and three practical humane methods
have been fully developed. Additional technological developments, such as the
Hormel method of anesthetizing hogs with 002, have been available to the packing
industry for a considerable period of time (three years, in the case of_Hormel),
but the vast majority of packers have stuck stubbornly to the old, cruel methods.
It is impossible to accept the Department's suggestion that we wait for voluntary
compliance with humane principles by the packing industry. We have already
waited for 62 years, and only a minute fraction of the millions of animals
slaughtered annually in this country are receiving a merciful death.

I hope that you will write to Secretary of Agriculture Benson urging that he
give his full support to 5.1636 and H.R.6099, now being revised for the next
session of Congress. It is most important that the Secretary, your Senators and
your Congressman.realize how you feel about this urgently needed reform. Secretary
Benson's address is: United States Department of Agriculture, Hashington 25, 9.0.
Your Senators may be addressed at the Senate Office Building, and your Congressman
at the House Office Building, Washington, D.C. Letters to your local newSpaper
editors, urging others to write in support of these bills, would also be extremely
valuable. a

If you would like to have literature to distribute among your acquaintances _“,
about slaughter, humane and inhumane, please let me know; I shall be glad to send
you as many leaflets as you request. Please urge your friends to write to
Washington also.

The bills as they stand provide for a five year delay before they go into
effect. There is no need for so long a period. When British legislation on the
subject was adopted, only a feW'months elapsed between passage of the act and its
enforcement. If you feel, as I do, that two years would be more than ample time
to allow for a changeover, please indicate this in your letters too.

we can eliminate the hideous and completely unnecessary'pain and fear of
animals which could easily be rendered unconscious before they even realized
that death iS near. All that is necessary is that humane—minded people take
the time to make their opinions known. I feel sure that you and your friends will
do so, and I wish to thank you in advance for this essential help to animals.

Sincerely,

/ " ‘ K
§ .
if"! ,1“ I .A t
f
f
L,

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION

745 Fifth Avenue
New York, 22, N. Y.

March 22, 1958

To Humanitarians:

No action has yet been taken on humane slaughter legislation by the Senate
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Opponents of effective legislation to
protect animals hope to kill it all together by prolonging the delay still
further. WE MUST DEMAND ACTION IMMEDIATELY.

Please write today and ask your friends to write to the two Senators
from your state (see enclosed listing for thei¥~names). Ask them.to request
the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to act promptly on the measure so
that it can be Voted on by the whole Senate and enacted into law in this
session of Congress. Ask your Senators to vote for it as soon as it reaches
the floor. It will be very helpful if you will send us copies of their replies.

 

H.R. 8308, which passed the House of Representatives on February 4th, and
S. 1497, which has been amended to be identical with the House bill, are now
before the Committee. Also before the Committee is a bad bill which would
merely set up a study commission on humane slaughter. This bill has the support
of the packers and would delay for two years or more enactment of effective
legislation against slaughterhouse cruelty. Be sure your Senators know you do
not want a study bill, but you do want the identical good bills (S. 1497 and
H.R. 8308) to be passed by the gassed by the Senate.

Enclosed are quotations from.some of the editorials in favor of humane
slaughter legislation which have been appearing in newspapers all over the
country in the past two months. Also enclosed are statements made in the
debate in the House of Representatives by the Hon. W.R.Poage (Dem.Tean) and
the Hon. William Dawson (Rep. Utah). Please give the editor of your local
newspaper the material and ask him to write an editorial in favor of the

legislation. (Let us know if you want us to send you additional literature
to give him.)

If you or your friends have not yet written to the members of the Senate
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, please write to each one now. Their
names are starred on the enclosed list of Senators.

IF EFFECTIVE HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION IS NOT PASSED BY THE SENATE
BEFORE CONGRESS ADJOURNS THIS YEAR, THE PROGRESS ALREADY MADE WILL BE LOST.
THE BILL WOULD HAVE TO START ALL OVER AGAIN IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
ANOTHER LONG YEAR OF CRUELTY WOULD BE IN STORE FOR OUR FOOD ANIMALS. EVERY
HOUR TENS OF THOUSANDS OF THEM ARE BEING KILLED IN PAIN AND FEAR THAT IS AS
HORRIBLE AS IT IS NEEDLESS. HUMANITARIANS MUST NOT.ALLOW IT TO CONTINUE.

No normal person can be in favor of continued, unnecessary, mass cruelty,
but many people are still unaware of this cruelty in our slsughterhouses. It
is our duty to inform all citizens through every means we can. Humane ministers
are putting announcements on the need for the legislation in their church
bulletins. Please ask your minister to do the same. Ask any club or SYOUP
to which you belong to request all the members to write the Senators. Please
do everything in your power to increase still further the public demand for
this humane legislation.so that.it will be enacted this year.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary-Treasurer

 




    
     
     
 
  
 
 
    
    
  
 
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  

  

A Statement for the Public Hearing of the Subcommittee to consider
S.lb§6 of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on May 9

Q

and 10, 1956, to recommend amendment and enactment of o.1656.
M

“ u— I. on. - a— - .- u— .- .. ._. - 4- — .._ .3 —. _ —o — — - a... c— u— —- ..- — c.- n— - a. —

Everyone agrees that humane methods of slaughter should be
adopted by the meat packing industry. In fact, so strong is the
public revulsion against the cruelty being practiced day in and
day out in most of our packing plants that even those who have been
responsible for this endless chain of unnecessary terror and pain
inflicted on hundreds of millions of defenseless animals dare not
oppose the idea of humane slaughter. They do not hesitate to oppose,
,however, the enactment of legislation which would make it compulsory.

They seek to justify this opposition by saying that humane
slaughter will be voluntarily adopted and that legislation is un~
necessary. It is not surprising that the American Meat Institute,
which represents the largest and most powerful packers, should have
adopted such a propaganda line. This same line worked so well
twenty—seven years ago that routine cruelty in the nation's
slaughterhouses has gone on virtually undisturbed ever since.

t is time that an end should be put to this debasing brutality
which is unworthy of our country. No decent American, be he Repub-
lican or Democrat, can be in favor of continuing to inflict un-
necessary fear and pain on the animals that provide us with food,
leather, medicines, and hundreds of other necessities and luxuries.
To give protection to these animals, legislation is absolutely
necessary.

A ook at the record will show why this is so. In 1874,
Switzerland required that all animals be rendered unconscious
before shackling and bleeding. The next country to follow suit was
the Netherlands in 1920. Norway enacted humane slaughter legis-
lation in 1924, and Scotland, in 1929. In 1929 the ﬂmerican Meat
Institute formed its ”Committee for Improved Slaughtering Methods.”
Such confidence was inspired by the apparent interest of the packers
in humane slaughter that the President of the Massachusetts SPCA
gave a speech at the 1929 convention of the American Humane
Association in which he stated, Y'The packers are with us,” and the
efforts he and others had made to have compulsory humane slaughter
legislation enacted came to nothing. Until 1955 when Senator
THhmohrey introduced S.l636, no one challenged the right of packers
in our country to drag screaming hogs over a great wheel chained
by a hind leg which sometimes broke, to thrust a knife into their
throats in full consciousness, to kill the pathetically docile lambs
and calves and sheep in the same horrible manner, to hammer cattle
into unconsciousness with ten or more blows if necessary, and to
subject the men working on the killing floors not only to the danger
of knife wounds, kicks and bites, the hideous noise and spatter of
blood, but to the even more hideous moral debasement of having to
earn a living by cruelty.

      
     
         
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
    
    
   

 
  

In European democracies, the packers fought hard each time a
law was proposed to bring an end to these practices, but they were
less successful than the American Meat Institute. In 1952, Northern

       




Ireland enacted compulsory humane slaughter legis ation, and in
1935, Flzgland fol1ov.’ed suit. Next came Finland in 1934, Sweden
in 1937, Fiji in 1943, New Zealand in 1951, and Denmark in 1954.
Parts of France, Germany, Austria and Australia also enacted
humane slaughter laws.

. inst was happening in the United States during these years?
Did the American Meat Institute's Committee on Improved Methods of
Slaughter develop ar 11y improved methods of slaughter or encourage
the1r adoption by the industry as they keep promising they are
going to do? The answer, of course, is no. In all those 27 years
the American Meat Institute undertook only one formal piece of
scientific research on the stunn.ing of animals, This research was
extensive and undoubtedly expensive, but so far from developing a
human method, its result was to cancel one out. After convincing
the Department of Agriculture that electrical stunning could not

be used, the American Meat Institute folded its hands and sat

back, fully satisfied, apparently, with its accomplishment. Humane
slaughter had been thoroughly defeated.

0

Bot until the threat of legislation frightened it into its
recent show of activity did the American Meat Institute give the
smallest encouragement to any humane method of slaughter. Its
indifference and hos tility‘to the marvellous humane invention made
by one o1 its own members, the Hormel Company, has been so revealing
as to be worth noting in detail.

The higllv inger Lous new method of missth etizing hogs with
carbond dioxide was in nted at the Company's plant at Austin,
Iinnesota. In 1952, Mr L. W. Murphy gave a speech about the new
development illu.tratcd with films, before the convention of the
American Meat Institute "The Iationsl frovisi _oner" and ”Food
EngineeringH carried long articles which gave a clear picture of
the great gains, not only in humaneness, but in efficiency, economy
and labor rela ions obtained through use of the process. Animal
protective publications featured articles praising the new method.
Letters went ou_t to various companies asking when they planned to

stall the carbon dioxide tunnel. Humanitariéhs, always hopeful,
felt again "the packers are Witi us," and, again, they were bitterly
disappointed. The Hormel Company installed a second tunnel in
Aust' n, a third in its “remont Nebraska, plant, but ngt one single
other American packer has installed the humane equipment.

 

 

The big packers a.nd the American Meat Institute never lose an
opportunity to criticize this outstanding American invent ion which
is being warmly rec ceiv ed in .1.uropean cour- tries where humane slaughter
legislation is in effect. A few examples of the hostility of the
A.111.I., Armour’s and Swift's will suffice. A letter from Mr. Norman
Draper, Public Relations Director of the A.M.I., published in the
Louisville Courier Journal, March 10, 1956, :ahes the false state-
ment: "T11. is a patented process and not ava.1lab1e to everyone.”
The proce ess is, of course, patented, the patent rights having been
given by the Hormel Company to the Allcr1rht hell Company, suppliers
to the packing industry of a variety of ecu1pmcnt. It can be
purchased from them by anyone who wishes 1o 1 stall it.

 




  

 

—;

.19...

 

Mr. Draper's letter in the Courier Journal goes on to cast
doubt on the humaneness of carbon dioxide, and, judging from the
letters which have been sent on to me by housewives who wrote the
A.M.I. to ask why they didn't do something to stop the current
cruelty in slaughterhouses, Mr. Draper gave them all the same mis-
information.

Mr. Regensburger and Mr. Eschenbach, vice—presidents of Swift
and Company, were equally anxious to convince me that carbon dioxide
is not humane when I visited one of their inhumanely operated
Chicago plants. Armour and Company's OI ficial statement, dated
September I, 1955, says, "It (anesthetizing hogs with carbon
dioxide ,as) has not been proved to be more humane than present

methods.‘ Mr. Alec P. Davies of the A. M.I. in his address be fore
the Mid—West Conference of Humane Societies, May 15, 1955, uses

. 1 - .
almost the same words: 'It has yet to be proved that this method

is more humane.”

The doubt casting technique is an effective public- relations
tool, and a surprising number of people have allowed. themselves to
be persuaoed that carbon dioxide suffo cates r ther than anesthe-
tizes animals. This is false. Hogs enteli.g a 65% to 70% concen—
tration of carbon diox31de lose ”CDSCIDUKTSSS in 5 to 10 seconds.
But it is imgossiole to losea consciousness Irom lack of oxygen
in so short a time. It is sy to hold one's breath for 60
seconds or more without impairing consciousness in the slightest.
Anyone who wants to find out I“rom personal experience about the
rapidity of the effect of carbon dioxide on the central nervous
system has only to try a simple experiment I carried out on
myself. Next time you buy ice cream in a bag containing plenty
of dry ice, put your Iac e in the bag and inhale the carbon
dioxide deeply. You can Ieel for yourself the giddi ness which
is a prelude to unconsciousness.

Carbon dioxide is not used routinely as an anesthetic because

it raises the blood pre .sure, but for certain mental treatments

it is in regular use, and patients are repeatedly anesthetized
with it painlessly. There are a great many references in
scientific papers to the anesthetic properties of the gas {see
ppendiv to this statement) whose action in tt 1e cessation of

reflex xes correspon.s exactly with those seen in ether anesthesia.
Dr. $ven Mogens Blomquist, veterinar an at the Danish Meat Research

Institute where extensive studies on the subject have been carried

out, states: ”Our investigations have led to the conclusion that
the stunning in 65% carbon dioxide promptly gives deep narcosis
without sufierings.’ (see appendix for letter in full.)

With these facts in mind, what is to be said of people who
persist in suggesting that it is less humane to rapidly anesthetize
an animal before it has any premonition of death than it is to hang
the same animal by a chain.around one hind leg and send him scream—
ing in terror and pain, to see and hear his fellows in their death
agonies, with their throats cut, bleeding to death, to su ffer the
same agonies himself while fully conscious‘?

 

     




-4-

Their hostility towards this humane invent ion (which has been
further developeo to save th e Hormel Company $50, 000 a.nnually in
paid claims on bruis ses) is not the only demor strat ion of their bad
faith in respect to humane slaughter.

The Armour statemen (Sept. 1, 1955) referred to before,
ass serts that shackling a hog and hanging him head downwards ”has a
quieting or anesthetizing effect. Those who have been present
when hogs are hung up like this have never found the atmosphere to
be noteworthy for quietness. The fact is that hanging head down—
wards while being bled slows down the final merciful arrival of
unconsciousness. Scientific reference to this physiological fact
may be found in a paper by E. 0.Long1ey in the Journal of Mental
Science, 92 (j:?8),1949, in which he states: T'he fact that the
animals are suspended head downward during this time must be
recognized as providing the maximum delay in loss of consciousness
by the bleeding

Armour and Company is not alone in serving out monstrous
statements to the public.' Swift and Company reached unusual
heights in this field when it published a little book for school
children entitled ”The feat Pa acking Industry in AmericaH (1931)
which states: " ogs, sheep and a11 but the larger calves are
slaughtered by having their throats cut. This operation quickly
paralyzes the sensory nervous system and prevents all pain." If
it is so.perfect1y painless to die from having one’s throat
cut, one wonders why suicides seem to prefer shooting themselves
or anesthetizing themselves with sleeping pills. But Armour’
Swift's and the others in control of the American Meat Institute
are just as mu ch against shooting animals before slaughter as they
are against anesthet izing them. Why? The brain of a steer
humanely stunned with a captive bolt pistol cannot be used for
human consumption unless carefully trimrned. But those of us who
go to a meat market or a restaurant and ask to buy a steer‘s
brain are very, very few and far between. Most beef brains are
used for such items as animal food or fertilizer, and they very
rarely bring more than EJ to 5¢.

Mr. E. Y. Lingle, President of the Seitz fac king Company,

St. Joseph, Missouri, states that he is saving much more than the
value of the brains by reducing bruises and'”dark cutters' or

stiff cattle" through use of the pistol. ’We have slaughtered
over 5,000 cattle with the lights and with the pistol and we
have had only an occasional 'stiff' cattle. When we used the
ha ammer we had stiff cattle every day. These stiff cattle are
the ones that do not bleed properly and are very difficult for
the butcher to skin because the hide is tight. Mr. Lingle's
whole speech is worth reading and is attached in the appendix. It
also contains refutation of the Armour allegation that the captive
bolt pistol has not roved practical on high speed operations.
Mr. Lingle states: We have made time studies of the slaughtering
of several hundred cattle and find that we can load the gun and
shoot one cattle every seven sec conds. 0n the basis of one cattle
every ten seconds, one man can slaughter 360 cattle per hour, and
he can con inue to do this all day long because his work is much
easier than when he used the hammer."

 




..5_

The captive bolt pistol is in every day use by a considerable
number of companies including-the Oscar Mayer Company, Madison,
Wisconsin; Great Falls Meat Co., Great Falls, Montana; Cudahy
Brothers Co., Cudahy, Wisconsin; Peters Packing Co., McKeesport,
Pennsylvania; L. A. Frey & Sons, New Orleans, Louisiana; Elsheimers
Meat Products, West Union, Iowa; C. E. Richards and Sons, Muscatine,
Iowa; American Stores 00., Pueblo, Colorado; Fresno Meat Packing
" Fresno, California; Chicago Dressed Beef, Worcester, Massa~

ts; Salter Packing Co., Vernon, California; Triangle Meat
Chicago, Illinois.

A third method of stunning animals before slaughter has been
developed by the Remington Arms Company. In the unseemly scramble
to take false credit for the development of this instrument, the
American Meat Institute has been in the forefront, but the simple
fact is that the instrument was developed by the Remington Company
itself for sale to any and all packers who decide to use it. The
threat of legislation has led the A.M.I. to sponsor tests in a
number of its members' plants and to send out news releases de-
signed to reflect credit upon themselves and to delay final assess—
ment of the tool in the hope that enactment of S. 1636 can be
postponed and, through postponement, defeated.

This instrument represents so vast an improvement over the
old—fashioned hammer that it would be inconceivable that Remington
salesmen, aggressively pushing sales of instruments and ammunition,
should fail to distribute a considerable quantity. I may be wrong,
but I believe that a substantial reduction in cruelty to steers in
slaughterhouses will take place next year even if 3.1636 should be
defeated. This expectation must not blind us to the fact that
cruelty to the gentlest and most uncomplaining victims of slaughter~
house brutality, the lambs, the calves, and the sheep, will not be
abated so much as one hundredth of one percent unless and until
this bill is passed, for the greatest salesman in the world will
be unable to sell stunning equipment for these pathetic creatures
which do indeed go "like a lamb to the slaughter" until cruel
methods of slaughter have been made illegal.

The American packing industry has available three splendid,
practical, humane devices, two of them developed on American soil
specifically to meet American needs, and the third already in use
in quite a number of plants in this country. The American Meat
Institute Committee on Improved Methods of Slaughter has, by its
lethargy and callousness, lost many millions of dollars for the
packing industry and, indirectly, for the meat—consuming public.
In calling attention to its excellent article {which I hope every
member of the Committee will read) "Look, No Shackles, No Bruised
HamsH in its April 14th issue, The National Provisioner hits the
nail on the head when it editorializes, ”We wonder whether packers
haven't overemphasized the 'slow' in their 'sure' march toward
progress." One might go a step farther and ask if the slowness
hasn’t eliminated the sureness in some plants. When I visited
Swift's Chicago plant, an architect who had made a similar tour
forty years ago accompanied me. He states that he observed no
humane progress of any kind in that period of time.

 




-6—

I have been unable to discover any sign whatsoever that the
majority of meat packers will even consider adopting humane
methods of slaughter for all the animals they kill until compulsory
legislation is passed. There is plenty of evidence to the con-
trary however. In Denmark,humane slaught r regulations were
adopted in 1954 and temporarily suspends n 1955 owing to problems
arising from the use of electrical stunning, a method not being
considered for the United States. The manufacturer of the Danish
carbon dioxide tunnel has been given numerous orders for his
equipment, but they are to be filled if, and only if, the regular
tions go back into effecti By the same token, the manager of a
medium sized.American plant expressed interest in installing such
a tunnel because he says he thinks the legislation will be passed
and he doesn't want to be the last to comply if it is. In no
country has humane slaughter been adopted for the majority of
animals until compulsory legislation was enacted.

The instruments and photographs of humane slaughtering
devices on display at this Hearing show their practical and
humane excellence. All packers could adopt humane methods in
the next two years without undue haste or difficulty, and I wish
to suggest that S. 1636 be amended to reduce the time for com-
pliance to two years with one additional year available in unusual
cases by special permission of the Secretary of Agriculture. I
further suggest that S. 1636 be amended to be identical with
H.R. 8540 and H.R. 9605 except for Section 4 (b) providing for an
advisory committee. I urge that no such committee be established
under this act and that the Secretary of Agriculture be responsible
for ensuring its effective administration. Only a disinterested
governm nt department can act honestly and fairly in the adminis—
tration of legislation of this kind. The organizational repre~
sentatives would be subject to intolerable pressures which would
serve to weaken the enforcement of the legislation. Their expense
money would be better saved for a more useful purpose.

In conclusion, permit me to say that I have visited slaughter—
houses in the United States, England, Holland and Denmark. I have
seen cruel slaughter and humane slaughter, large scale slaughter
and small scale slaughter, and I know that there is no longer any
need for any animal to suffer fear and pain such as American
animals by the millions are being forced to endure simply because
most packers won’t trouble themselves to be humane.

If S. 1656 is amended and enacted into law, all this stagger—
ingly vast amount of intense and unnecessary suffering will come
to an end in two years. This Congress has the Opportunity to do
great good for the animals without which we could not live and
which, in turn, depend upon us for decent treatment and protection
against cruelty, great good for the man on the killing floor, and
great good for our nation’s moral and spiritual character. And,
even though many of them don't seem to realize it, this law would
do great good for the packers, too, for the antiquated operating
methods being widely used are as bad for business as they are for
the animals and the men.

 




1| Word has just been received that the Danish humane slaughter
\ regulations went into force again on May 1, 1956

 




-6-

I have been unable to discover any sign whatsoever that the
majority of meat packers will even consider adopting humane
methods of slaughter for all the animals they kill until compulsory
legislation is passed. There is plenty of evidence to the con-
trary however. In Denmark,humane slaught r regulations were
adopted in 1954 and temporarily suspendedign.1955 owing to problems
arising from the use of electrical stunning, a method not being
considered for the United States. The manufacturer of the Danish
carbon dioxide tunnel has been given numerous orders for his
equipment, but they are to be filled if, and only if, the regula-
tions go back into effect! By the same token, the manager of a
medium sized American plant expressed interest in installing such
a tunnel because he says he thinks the legislation will be passed
and he doesn‘t want to be the last to comply if it is. In no
country has humane slaughter been adopted for the majority of
animals until compulsory legislation was enacted.

The instruments and photographs of humane slaughtering
devices on display at this Hearing show their practical and
humane excellence. All packers could adopt humane methods in
the next two years without undue haste or difficulty, and I wish
to suggest that S. 1636 be amended to reduce the time for com—
pliance to two years with one additional year available in unusual
cases by special permission of the Secretary of Agriculture. I
further suggest that S. 1636 be amended to be identical with
H.R. 8540 and H.R. 9603 except for Section 4 (b) providing for an
advisory committee. I urge that no such committee be established
under this act and that the Secretary of Agriculture be responsible
for ensuring its effective administration. Only a disinterested
government department can act honestly and fairly in the adminis—
tration of legislation of this kind. The organizational repre-
sentatives would be subject to intolerable pressures which would
serve to weaken the enforcement of the legislation. Their expense
money would be better saved for a more useful purpose.

In conclusion, permit me to say that I have visited slaughter-
houses in the United States, England, Holland and Denmark. I have
seen cruel slaughter and humane slaughter, large scale slaughter
and small scale slaughter, and I know that there is no longer any
need for any animal to suffer fear and pain such as American
animals by the millions are being forced to endure simply because
most packers wonit trouble themselves to be humane.

If S. 1636 is amended and enacted into law, all this stagger—
ingly vast amount of intense and unnecessary suffering will come
to an end in two years. This Congress has the opportunity to do
great good for the animals without which we could not live and
which, in turn, depend upon us for decent treatment and protection
against cruelty, great good for the man on the killing floor, and
great good for our nation’s moral and spiritual character. And,
even though many of them don't seem to realize it, this law would
do great good for the packers, too, for the antiquated Operating
methods being widely used are as bad for business as they are for
the animals and the men.

 




-7...

If S. 16:6 is defeated, it will be a triumph for the worst
elements in organized meat packing, those who gladly spend large
sums to fool the American public, to make cruelty seem kind, to
make inefficiency and waste seem businesslike, but who begrudge a
penny or two to save an animal from pain and terror. Please don't

let them win.

Respectfully submitted,

Christine Stevens,
270 Park Avenue,
New York 17, New York.

 




To: Editors of newspapers and writers Who helped
to pass the Federal humane slaughter law.

FRﬂﬁ: The Society for Animal Protective Legislationv
745 Fifth Avenue, New York 22, New‘York

A bill to protect laboratory animals from unnecessary suffering
and mistreatment was introduced today by Senator John Sherman Cooper (R.Ky)
on behalf of himself and a number of other Senators. This bill is
'designed on the same principle as the humane slaughter law passed in
1958; that is, it sets humane standards to which all those who receive
Federal funds for their work must adhere if this support is to continue.

It would be administered by the Secretary of Health, Education and

Welfare.

The measure was carefully drawn to avoid inserfering in any
way with legitimate research work. If enacted, it will give effective

protection to laboratory animals.

Because of the‘opposition by extremists on both sides (both
anti-vivisectionist and scientific) we wished you to have facts about
the bill at hand, and a leaflet is enclosed for your information. we

will be happy to provide you with additional information at your request.

This measure is urgently needed, and we earnestly hope that you

will give it the same careful consideration and valuable support you

did the humane slaughter bills

# # # #

 




w

-2-

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITog, March 22, 1957, (Edit.) ”Most coun-
tries in Europe and many elsewhere have adopted laws requiring in-
struments that render animals insensible before killing.” (reprinted
in COLUMBUS (0a.) LEDGER-INQUIRER, SHEFFIELD (Ala.) TRI-CITIESprILZ,
FLORENCE (Ala.) TIMES, STATE COLLEGE CENTRE TIMES (Pa.), ROME (N.Y.)
SENTINEL, CHARLESTON (S.C.) NEWS AND COURIER)

J

'1
.r

CINCINNATI (Ohio) POST, July 11, 1957, (Edit.) ”We fail to see how
anybody can have a quarrel with the bill requiring humane methods of
slaughter for meat processors who sell to the federal government.”

 

 

THE ANN ARBOR (Mich.) NEWS and others, August 2, 1957, (WNS) by Ann
Cottrell Free, "'I have received more letters on this one subject
than even on the budget,’ one Cpngressman revealed.”

THE NASHVILLE TENNESSEEAN, June 26, 1957, (Edit.) ”There is no longer
any sensible argument for these cruel and barbarous methods."

THE LOUISVILLE (Ky.) TIMES, June 24, 1957, by Tom Wallace, ”There are pack-
ers who are unconcerned, or little concerned, or too little concern-

ed about suffering that is inflicted upon animals avoidably. They

should be required to abate that suffering, which their religion for«

bids if they are Americans and practice or profess one of the

religions known in this country."

THE MIAMI (Fla.) NEWS, May 2, 1957, (Edit.) ”Just why the meat in-
dustry should Oppose this reform is hard to understand. The
ammUnition used in the stunners costs two to four cents anganimal;
carbon dioxide gas around one cent.“ (reprinted in SPRINGFIELD (Ohio)
NEWS)

 

THE PITTSBURCH (Pa.) POST~GAZETTE, June 17, 1957, (Edit.) ”Senator
NeubergerWSummed the issue up well when, in support of pending
legislation, he declared that 'cruelty is an evil that should be
eradicated from our society, not merely for the sake of the animals
but for our own good.'”

 

THE NEW YORK WORLD-TELEGRAM.AND SUN, July 15, 1957, ”Congress is
moving steadily toward adopting measures responsive to demands that
the federal government compel better treatment for animal life.”

MY DAY, Eleanor Roosevelt column, March 25, 1957, "Other countries
have established humane slaughter laws. Such a law requires changes
in equipment and in methods of slaughtering making them economically
sound as well as humane.”

THE DAILY SENTINEL (0010.) March, 1957, (Edit.) ”If legislation that
has been presented to this Congress is passed - and prOSpects are
good for it - all slaughtering of food animals by commercial firms
will be done by more humane methods."

SAN ANGELO (Tex.) STANDARD, May 3, 1957 (Edit-) ”If it happened t0.
a dog, almost any witness would call the police. But the process 18
fully as terrifying and painful to a hog as it would be to a dog.”

EEEBX (111.) NEWS REPUBLICAN, May 1, 1957, (Edit.) "Many years ago,
say 20, we went on a tour of Chicago Stock yards. It was an ex-
perience which made vegetarians of us for two or three years.”

 

§AEI§EHEX (N.C.) POST, May 12, 1957, (Edit.) "...bloody and brutal
practices of slaughter archaically followed in most packing houses.”

EAEEEQAE (111.) H§E§;§EE, July 15, 1957, (Edit.) "American slaughter-
houses often cause needless pain and fright, jerking animals up by a
hind leg, cutting their throats and letting them bleed to death.“

EAMQEE (N J.) COURIERoPOST, July 18, 1957, (Edit.) ”Humanitarians
are united behind this legislation."

 

 

LAKE WORTH (F1a.) HERALD, July 11, 1957, (Edit.) ”It therefore seems
that such a bill should be overwhelmingly adOpted when it comes up
for a vote for it has the endorsement of all peOple interested in

a better, more humane, more considerate world.”

 




SAGINAW (Mich.) NEWS, July 9, 1957, (Edit.) ”When a man or a nation
acts in a needlessly brutal way toward any form of life, a twofold
offense is committed. Man's God-given stewardship over the lower
forms of life is dishonored and he himself is debased.”

ERIE (Pa.) TIMES, July 8, 1957, (Edit.) ”We feel confident that Congress
will respond to the demand for the legislation and pass the bill."

KNOXVILLE (Tenn.) NEWS SENTINEL, May 24, 1957, (Edit.) ”Man's inhumanity
to man is repugnant. His inhumanity to the animals whose flesh sustains
him is hardly less so. Mandatory humane slaughter legislation now pend-
ing before both houses of Congress should be passed.”

 

COLUMBUS (Ohio) CITIZEN, May 22, 1957, "The prevalent practice of
shackling the hind leg of a pig and yanking it aloft - conscious and
squealing - to have its throat cut, may be outlawed."

THE HOOSIER DAY, Frank A. White column, May 14, 1957, ”Our slaughter-
ing methods have been so revolting that at long last there is a well-
defined public movement in the U. S. A. to stOp the barbaric methods
used.” (in THE RUSHVILLE REPUBLICAN, SHERRYVILLE NEWS, RUSHVILLE
TELEGRAM, ELWOOD CALL-LEADER,IQQNNERSVILLE NEWS-EXAMINER)

 

 

 

STAMFORD (Conn.) ADVOCATE, May 2, 1957, (Edit.) “What is needed now
is a humane slaughter bill by the national government which would
make it mandatory for all livestock and poultry to be rendered
insensible."

BROOKLYN (N.Y.) ADVERTISER DIGEST, BROOKLYN RECORD AND ADVERTISER,
and others, April 18, 1957, Lou Terras column, ”The Hon. William A.
Dawson has said 'That the animals collective screams of pain are
heard only by the few does not lessen the general guilt once we
have been made aware of the practice.’”

 

ASBURY PARK (N.J.) EVENING PRESS, April 13, 1957, (Edit.) ”The meat
packers should be ashamed of themselves that it should be necessary
to pass legislation to force them to behave like human beings.”

 

§A§TQELA (N.C.) GAZETTE, April 16, 1957, (Edit.) ”Cruelty and
Americanism are incompatible.”

NEW YORK DAILY NEWS, April 1, 1957, (Edit.) ”Up to now, meat lobbyists
have succeeded in postponing effective humane slaughter legislation
on the plea that the subject needs further study."

VERNAL (Utah) EXPRESS, April 11, 1957, ”There has been sufficient
study in the matter to know exactly what needs to be done. The
time is ripe now to do something.”

Nagy; (Fla.) HERALD, July 9, 1957, (Edit.) ”The meat industry has
given a lot of lip service but little action to humane slaughter.
Since it evidently won't be put into effect voluntarily, a law
seems in order. Americans don't want their food animals to suffer
needlessly."

THE BETHLEHEM (Pa.) GLOBE-TIMES, July 27, 1957, (Edit.) ”This bill
deserves our support if we want to make amends.”

 

THE YOUNGSTOWN (Ohio) VINDICATOR, July 5, 1957, (Edit.) ”'This Operat~
ion is not only extremely painful for the hog, it also provides con~
siderable danger to the worker. The hogs generally thrash around.

Their hoofs are sharp. Workers are often gouged.’ Such evidence should
be enough to convince Congress - and all Americans - of the need of a
law to compel packers to abandon their barbaric, dangerous methods."

 

ORANGEBURG (S.C.) TIMES DEMOCRAT, July 3, 1957, (Edit.) ”In the name of
divine justice, these animals should be given a humane death.”

 

BERGEN EVENING RECORD (N.J.), March 9, 1957, (Edit.) "There is no
shadow of reason for deferring compulsory legislation.”

 




SVOAQLE

United States Senators from all states are listed here for your convenience.

Please write to those from your own state.

ALABAMA
ARIZONA
ARKANSAS
CALIFORNIA
COLORADO
CONNECTICUT
DELAWARE
FLORIDA
GEORGIA
IDAHO

ILLINOIS

INDIANA

IOWA

KANSAS

KENTUCKX

LOUISIANA

.MAINE

MARYLAND

MASSACHUSETTS

MICHIGAN

MINNESOTA

MISSISSIPPI

MISSOURI

.MONTANA

gAve

Senate Office Building
Washington, D. C.

Lister Hill
John J. Sparkman

Carl Hayden
Barry M. Goldwater

J. William Fulbright
John L . McClellan

Thomas H": Kuchel
William F. Knowland

John A. Carroll
Gordon Allott

Prescott Bush
William A. Purtell

J. Allen.Frear, Jr.
John J. Williams

George A. Smathers
Spessard L. Holland

Herman Talmadge
Richard B. Russell

Frank Church
Henry C. Dworshak

Everett NA Dirksen
Paul H. Douglas

Homer E. Capehart
William E. Jenner

Bourke B. Hickenlooper
Thomas E. Martin

Frank Carlson
Andrew F . Schoeppel

Thurston B. Morton
John SherMan Cooper

Russell B. Long
Allen J. Ellender

Nhrgaret Chase Smith
Frederick G. Payne

~John Marshall Butler
J. Glenn Beall

Ieverett Saltonstall
John F. Kennedy

Patrick V. McNamara
Charles E. Potter

Hubert H. Humphrey
Edward J. Thye

James O. Eastland
John C. Stennis

Thos. C. Hennings, Jr.
Stuart Symington

James E. Murray
Mike Mansfield

NEBRASKA

NEVADA

NEW HAMPSHIRE

NEW JERSEY

NEW MEXICO

NEW YORK

NORTH CAROLINA

NORTH DAKOTA

OHIO

OKLAHOMA

OREGON

PENNSYLVANIA

RHODE IS LAND

SOUTH CAROLINA

SOUTHIDAKOTA

TENNESSEE

TEXAS

UTAH

VERMONT

VIRGINIA

WASHINGTON

WEST VIRGINIA

WISCONSIN

WYOMING

 

('

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

Sen.

Sen.
Sen.

.I Z»”MLWC
. LIN] LN

ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED AT

Carl T. Curtis
Roman L. Hruska

Alan Bible
George W. Malone

Norris Cotton
Styles Bridges

Clifford P. Case
H. Alexander Smith

Clinton P. Anderson‘
Dennis Chavez

Jacdb K. Javits
Irving M. Ives

Samuel J. Ervin, Jr.
W. Karr Scott

Milton R. Young
William Langer

Frank J. Lausche
John W. Bricker

A. S. Mike Monroney
Roberth. Kerr

Wayne.Morse
Richard Neuberger

Joseph S. Clark, Jr.
Edward martin

Theodore F. Green
John O. Pastors

Olin D. Johnston
J. Strom Thurmond

Francis Case
Karl E . Mundt

Estes Kefauver
Albert Gore

Iyndon B. Johnson
William A. Blakley

Wallace F. Bennett
Arthur V. Watkins

George D. Aiken
Ralph E. Flanders

A. Willis Robertsan
Harry Flood Byrd

Warren G. Magnuson
Henry M. Jackson

Matthev; M. Neely
ChaPMan gavercomh

Alexander Wiley

Joseph C. O‘Mahoney
Frank A. Barrett

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIIWAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue - Room 812 - New York 22, N. Y.

July 26, 1957
To Humanitarians:

More good news! H. R. 8308, the humane slaughter bill introduced.
by Mr. Poage, has come out of the Rules Committee and is now ready to go to
the floor of the House. In giving his powerful support to the bill, the Chairman
of tie Rules Committee laid special emphasis on the great volume of. mail he
had received. Everyone who has written letters to Washington shares in the
progress that has been made towards humane slaughter. Please don't lay
down your pens until this battle for the animals is won.

In order to obtain enactment of humane slaughter legislation before
Congress adjourns, there should be simultaneous action in Senate and House.
Here is the situation in the Senate: S. 1497, the bill introduced by Senators
Humphrey, Neuberger and Purtell, has been reported favorably by the
Suit-Committee. On August 7th, it is scheduled for discussion by the full Senate
Agriculture Committee. Your letters or wires urging favorable action should
reach your senators before that date.

 

 

Please writeto both Senators from your State and ask them to urge
the Senate Agriculture Committee to support S. 1497. The names of all Senators
and the States from which they come are on the attached sheet for your conveni—
ence. Then please also write to as many members of the Senate Agriculture
Committee as you can. They are listed on the bottom of this page. Ask all your
friends to do the same.

Please be sure to make it perfectly clear that you will not be satisfied
with a mere ”study" bill such as the packers have sought to promote. A "study”
bill would be worse than no bill at all. Every Senator needs to know that you want
a bill that will require humane methods of slaughter to be used. S. 1497 and
HR 8308 are such bills.

With your help an effective humane slaughter law can be passed now.
Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelrrians, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

Senator Allen J. Ellender, Louisiana Senator Herman E. Talmadge, Georgia
Senator Olin D. Johnston, South Carolina Senator George D. Aiken, Vermont
Senator Spessard L. Holland, Florida Senator Milton R. Young, North Dakota
Senator James O. Eastland, Mississippi Senator Edward J. Thye, Minnesota
Senator Hubert Humphrey, Minnesota Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper, Iowa
Senator W. Kerr Scott, North Carolina Senator Karl E. Mundt, South Dakota
Senator Stuart Symington, Missouri Senator Andrew F. Schoeppel, Kansas

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 229 New York

July 15,) 1957

- To Humanitarians:

Yours is one of the ten States represented on the Rules Committee
of the House of Representativeso As you know» the humane slaughter bill9
Ho R0 4 83089 is awaiting action in this Committeeo

In order to ensure that the bill is voted on in time for it to be acted
upon by. the Senate and so become law» it is necessary that the Rules Coma
mittee send it to the floor of the Heuse promptlyo You and your friends can
give valuable assistance if you write to the member of the Rules Committee
from your State:

House Office Building Washington Do Co

Please tell him how anxious you are to see our food animals
decently protected as they would be if Ho R0 8308 becomes lawo Request
him respectfully to do all in his power to see that it reaches the floor of the
House for a Vote in the immediate future, Please write another letter making
a similar request to the Chairman of the Rules Committee) the Hon, Howard
Smith9 House Office Building» Washington» DOCO

Your letters have helped immeasurably in bringing the humane
slaughter bill to this point Please keep up your efforts and enlist the help
of every humane minded person you cane The packers are working hard to
defeat the bill; Their leading trade journalg The National Provisoner of July
6th says: ”Warning that HR 8308 would require a complete changeover in hog
slaughtering methods now generally usedg and has other potential dangers,
industry spokesmen urged individual packers this week to get in touch with
their Congressmen immediately and ask, them to vote against the soacalled
“humane slaughter" billo 9‘

t The poor hog on the cover of the enclosed leaflet is being killed by
the ”hog slaughtering methods now generally usedo 9" You may have received
a cepy of this leaflet beforeo If. so» please pass it on to another kindmhearted
persona We will be glad to send you additional copies without charge if you
can use theme

Sincerelyg

Madeleine Bemelmansg President
Christine Stevens9 Secretary

 




Routine slaughter of sheep, lambs and most
«calves: This is similar to hog slaughter, except that
these docile animals create less disturbance and in
their death struggles cause fewer injuries to the men.

Routine slaughter of cattle and some calves: 1)
The animals are driven into stunning pens, usually
2-4 at a time. 2) A knocker (a man with a long-
handled hammer) stands on a platform and tries to
hit the animal’s forehead in a manner to cause it to
fall unconscious without doing too much damage to
pate and brains. A report on routine slaughter
at one of the biggest plants in the United States
state-s: “On the ﬁrst blow with the hammer, the
knocker felled the ﬁrst steer, whereupon the other
two terriﬁed animals climbed all over the prone
body. With all this stumbling and lunging, it took
two blows to fell the others. By the time this was
done, the ﬁrst one was coming to and trying to get
to his feet. I counted nine additional blows with
the hammer before that one went out!” Ten to thir-
teen blows are not uncommon.

Humane slaughter requires that animals be in-
stantantously stunned with one shot (as with the
Captive bolt pistol, Schermer stunner or Remington
stunner) or that they be rapidly anesthetized (as
with carbon dioxide) prior to shackling and bleed-
ing. (The humaneness of this latter method is
demonstrated by the fact that hogs which ride
through a carbon dioxide anesthetizing machine, if
not slaughtered, awaken from unconsciousness with-
in three minutes and are willing to repeat the trip
without objection.)

More than a quarter of a century ago, the packers
promised to adopt humane methods voluntarily.
They formed a ”Committee for Improved Slaughter-
ing Methods” in 1929, and have been "studying”
the question ever since. Nevertheless, the vast ma-
jority of our food animals are still being killed by
the same cruel methods. The packers dare not op-
pose humane slaughter outright, so they seek to
put it: off indeﬁnitely with more "study” and
”research.” They are supporting bills which would
achieve this unworthy purpose (8.1213 and H.R.
5820"». Such legislation must not be enacted.

Good compulsory humane slaughtering bills are
now pending: H.R. 176, H.R. 2880, H.R. 3029,
HR 3049, H.R. 5671, and S. 1497. These bills
should be given active support. All allowm
perioﬁ for compliance and a further extension, in

 

any special case, by the Secretary of Agriculture.

Ne. packer could suffer injustice under such leg—
islation. But if this legislation is not passed, more
hundreds of millions of animals will suffer tortures
for which no rational excuse can be given.

Compulsory humane slaughter legislation must be
enacted in 1957.

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Ave.
New York 22, N. Y.

Please look at the terriﬁed face of this tortured animal
screaming in anguish. She is one of the more than
100,000,000 sentient creatures upon whom this unneces-
sary suffering is inﬂicted every year.

This is the method most packers CHOOSE for
killing pigs, ”lambs, sheep and calves, even though
practical humane methods are available which would
prevent this pain and terror.

COMPULSORY HUMANE SLAUGHTER
LEGISLATION MUST BE ENACTED

TO
STOP T.S SENSELESS CRUELTY

 




Cur farm animals deserve, at the very least, a
merciful death in return for the food, leather, medi-
cal aids and countless other beneﬁts they give us.
They can be anesthetized, or they can be instantane-
ously stunned by a mechanical instrument so that
they are not even aware that they are about to be
slaughtered. It is our plain duty to insist upon

the use of these humane methods.

What is the cost of humane slaughter?

There are three humane stunning instruments
on the market. Their cost is: Cash-X Captive
Bolt Pistol: $100. Schermer stunner: $150. Rem-
ington stunner: $220. Ammunition costs 21/2¢ to

4¢ per animal.

There are carbon dioxide anesthetizing machines
for different sizes of plants. Carbon dioxide costs
less than 1¢ per animal. The manufacturer gives
a series of generalized prices from $3,500 (for 60
hogs per hour) up to $39,000 (for 600 hogs per
hour). An additional 50% of the cost of the
machine shOuld be allowed for installation.

Are humane methods of slaughter
practical and economical?

Yes. The three largest packing companies using
a humane method—the Oscar Mayer Company, the
George A. Hormel Company and Kingan and Com-
panywadopted these methods primarily for eco-
nomic reasons. A number of other packers have
adopted a stunning instrument voluntarily and have
used it over a period of years in successful corn—
petition with packers who use inhumane methods.
Another humane method in use for decades is shoot-
ing animals with a riﬂe immediately before bleed-
ing; this is done frequently in farm slaughter and

in small plants.

Would humane slaughter help the worker
on the killing ﬂoor?

Yes. The accident rate for the packing industry
as a whole is almost double that for all industrial
activity combined, and it is rising. The killing
ﬂoor is the most dangerous. place in a packing plant,
because men are forced to struggle with conscious
animals ﬁghting for their lives—kicking, biting,
sometimes deﬂecting the knife in their death agonies.

Workmen in inhumanely operated slaughtering
plants are subject not only to the danger of painful
injuries, but to the noise of screaming, the splash-
ing of blood, the general dirtiness and the physical
strain which make this one of the worst jobs in the
industry. Where humane methods are used. these
terrible working conditions are eliminated.

Slight increases and decreases in employment,
depending on species of animals and different meth-
ods used, could be expected to balance each other
so that there would be no change in the over-all

employment picture.

Would livestock producers or consumers be
penalized ﬁnancially by enactment of
humane slaughter legislation?

No. The cost of humane slaughter is relatively
small and is more than made up by savings through

reduction of bruised meat.

Why should the United States enact

compulsory humane slaughter legislation?

1. The inﬂiction of unnecessary suffering on 111l-
mals is abhorrent to the majority of American

citizens.

2. The United States is a world leader; its set
standards of humaneness should not be inferior to
those of the western European democracies, most
of which already have such legislation.

3. More than $50,000,000 worth of meat is
wasted annually in the United States through bruis-
ing. Humane slaughter is an important factor in
bruise reduction.

Is it practical to make the use of humane
methods of slaughter compulsory?

Yes. Compulsory humane slaughter legislation is
in effect in the following countries: (The dates in-
dicate the year when humane slaughter legislation
was enacted in each country).

Switzerland 1874 England 1 93» 5
Netherlands 1920 Finland 1 9 54
Norway 1 924 Sweden 1 93 7
Scotland 1928 Fiji 1 948
Ireland 1932 New Zealand 1951

Denmark 1 956

Parts of France, Germany, Austria and Australia
have also enacted humane slaughter legislation,

What is the difference between humane
slaughter and the methods now used in
most American packing plants?

Routine slaughter of hogs: 1) The hogs are driven

into a pen and shackled with a heavy chain around

one hind leg. Common abuses are beating recalci-
trant hogs with the shackle (causing bruises), piling
up of hogs on the one being dragged aloft by a
mechanical pulley, breaking of leg or pelvis of heavy
hogs, hog’s foot slipping out of the shackle so
that the animal falls from a height on top of the
others. 2) Hogs are carried aloft over a 14-foot
wheel to the sticking area, where a man with a knife
cuts the jugular veins of the screaming animals,
which then are left to bleed to death. Improperly
stuck hogs have been known to go into the scalding
tank while still alive and conscious, although the
Department of Agriculture has a regulation that these
animals cannot be used for human consumption.

4 O

 




FROM: Society for.Animal Protective Legislation
YMS-Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

Washington, D. C., June 28. A bill requiring that humane methods of slaughter of
food animals must be used by any slaughterer or processor who sells to the Federal
Government was approved today by the House Committee on Agriculture by'aﬁvOte of

25 to 3, and is now awaiting action by the full House of Representatives. The bill,
H.R. 8308, was drafted by the Hon. W. R. Poage of Texas, Chairman of the Sub~
committee, who had conducted hearings on the seven humane slaughter bills which

were introduced early in the session.

H.R. 8308 establishes the use of humane methods of slaughter of livestock as a
policy of the United States. It states that Congress finds ”the use of humane
methods in the slaughter of livestock prevents needless suffering, results in
safer and better working conditions for persons engaged in the slaughtering
industry, brings about improvement of products and economies in all slaughtering
operations, and produces other benefits for producers, processors and consumers
which tend to expedite an orderly flow of livestock products in interstate and

foreign commerce."

Humanitarians throughout the nation are united in demanding that this
proposed legislation, which would require food animals to be humanely stunned or
anesthetized before slaughter, should be passed before Congress adjourns. It
must be enacted if the United States is to have standards as a humane nation and
world leader which are equal to the standards of England, Scotland, Ireland,
Holland, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, New Zealand, Fiji, as

well as parts of Austria, Germany, France and Australia.

Tremendous public demand for this legislation has been eXpressed in a

record volume of mail to Congress from all parts of the country.

###

 




