F " i i' ' ‘* u.w1'gr‘i»7."fgﬁ. ‘3‘,—
; .
l

 

Det'est‘ed spOrt !' Which owes itSp
to another’s pain. —- Cowper. - “ l

. “N o civilization is complete Which doesnot‘i
‘ Include Wlthin its sphere of charity and mercy, a
; the dumb and defenceless of God’s creatures.""”:1
‘ —Queen Victoria. ‘ f

The “Sport” of Killing

T a certain time in the year a

strange' impulse takes possession
of some people. it is shown in a
desire to shed blood; to slay the help-
less; to scatter fear, pain and death
where once was life, peace and happi-
ness. It then becomes the “proper
thing” to leave one’s home, invade the
homes of our peaceful brothers of the
forest, and kill them for what we are
pleased to call our “sport.” It is then
that the beautiful wilds, which speak
of mystery and poetry and God, are
turned into shambles by those who
claim to be made in the “image of
God”; when the graceful and timid
deer, whose very innocence should
shield it from harm, chased and am-
bushed by human beings, rushes wildly
through the woods, trailing its blood .
behind it on the foliage of its forest li,i‘{;3"1lefl‘;,i”11.1i.,‘§?,‘:e§,l‘f,11:383!“
home.

Why is it that so—called civilized men (and some women!) enter upon
this blood carnival with such enthusiasm? Is it on account of the out—door
life it offers? But that can be gained in a hundred ways without the
shedding of innocent blood. The camera, moun'tain-climbing, and the joys
of harmless camp life should be sutiicient for human beings with a spark
of chivalry in their natures, without the need of bounding to (l‘tllh inno-
cent creatures living their own lives in their own homes. Why should
we continue to hug to our bosoms the old, barbarous associations of the
out—door life (legacies from our savage ancestry) when we can enjoy its
pleasures without them?

NOT SUDDEN DEATH ALONE

N
Let it be remembered this is not a matter of sudden death alone; for
many wounded animals crawl away to die slowly in some fastness. In
“Tracks of a Rolling Stone,” by Hon. H. J. Coke, are illustrated the possi-
bilities liable to occur in the chase of any wild animal that escapes,
wounded:—
“I got a long snap-shot on the stag and hit the beast in the haunch.
It was late in the day and the wounded animal got away. Nine (luvs
later I spied the big stag again. . . . ‘
“Not once did he rise or attempt to feed, but lay there restlessly

er past so long as

t unredressed on earth, or .
lef “I Will redressgtsj,

d my life. in the attemptiin ‘
*Charles Kingsley. ‘ .. n

The age of chivalry is nev

there is a wrong .
a man or a woman left to say.

that Wrong 01' spen

 




beating his head against the ground. I knew well enough what that
meant. His plaint could not reach my ear, but it reached my heart.
I put up the 20‘0—yard sight and killed him.

“I will not attempt to describe the body in detail. It would not be
desirable. I will merely say that it was wasted away and almost ﬂesh-
less except for his wounded haunch which was greatly swollen. This I
had done, and for my pleasure!

“After that year I went no more to Scotland.”

Among the seekers for such “pleasure” it may be that there are some
whose souls still answer to the promptings of generous sentiment. To
such I would say: Stop a moment and think—think twice at least before,
for the empty purpose of displaying your physical dexterity, you deliber-
ately add to the heavy load of the world’s misery. These creatures you are
about to molest have nerves like ours; have hopes and aims and fears;
have affection and family ties; and they have never wronged you! In that
remarkable book of Du Maurier, “Peter Ibbetson,” is found this passage,
pages 95, 96 :—

“As I picked it (the wounded rabbit) off the ground, and felt its poor
little, warm, narrow chest, and the last beats of its heart under its weak
ribs, and saw the blood on its fur, I was smitten with pity, shame and
remorse; and I settled with myself that I would ﬁnd some other road to
English gentlemanhood than the slaying of innocent wild things, whose
happy life seems so well worth living.”

To those who, when the “open season” is on, are wont to ﬁnd the}
“sport” in duck—hunting along our shores, I would recommend the follow-
ing from a current periodical:—

“I remember I once stood at sunset on a lonely beach, looking out
over the water, completely absorbed in the beauty of the scene, when
suddenly a tern sailed slowly into View. I raised my gun and ﬁred, and
the bird, with a broken wing, fell whirling through the air to the water.
Wishing to end its misery, I ﬁred another shot, but this fell short; and
then, my ammunition gone, I went slowly back over the sandhills, leaving
the tern to ﬂoat back and forth on the dark water and utter its mourn-
ful cry.

“In the morning I went again to the beach and found the poor
creature, half—dead, dragging itself up the sand, covered with blood, its
broken wing hanging from its body. In mercy I killed it. Never shall I
forget the look of those deep, shining black eyes that seemed to ask
only for death and relief from suffering. It seemed like murder. From
that moment I quit gunning forever.”

J. M. Greene

 

“It is very strange and very melancholy that the paucity of human
pleasures should persuade us to call hunting one of them.”

(Dr. Johnson.)

L

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION. SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass. Dr. Francis H, Rowley, President; Guy R1chardson, Secretary.
Price, 25 cents per hundred, postpaid.

 




