OTTERS AND MEN

By H. E. BATES

“ The otter remains one of our most interesting wild animals, partly
because of its many pleasing habits and playful nature, partly on
account of its very elusiveness. As a pet the young otter becomes
surprisingly tame and shows intelligence, willingness as a pupil and
undoubted affection for its owner.”

Editorial in The Shooting Times
and British Sportsman, 24/3/1934.

“ The otter killed, everyone gets as near as he cares to do to the
scene of the worry, in order that he may join in the chorus of ‘ Whoo
whoop ./ ’ wherewith rejoicing is made of the happy consummation of
the day’s business.”

From Otters and Otter-hunting, by L. C. R. CAMERON.

The Bucks Otterhounds wound up a top—notch season on September
28th. Hounds were out on sixty-six days, found 39 otters and accounted
for 15 brace, ten brace of which were dogs [i.e. 20 males and 10 females].

From The Shooting Times and British Sportsman, 12/10/1935.

difﬁcult for me, and for that matter anybody else,

to get a sight ‘of an otter. Otters are hunted and
killed, in England, at something like the rate of four hundred
and fifty a year. This is, of course, a small number when you
think that Lord X, with party, may dispose of three thousand
grouse in a single day, or that Colonel Y, with his famous
double two hundred pound weight punt-gun, may bring down
a hundred birds at one discharge. But it means this: that
in my short life of thirty years, reckoning at four hundred a
year, something like twelve thousand otters have been
killed in England for the purpose of fun. How exquisite
and long-drawn-out this fun has sometimes been I will Show
presently. For the moment, since a writer must sometimes
give reasons for words-he uses, I will explain Why I use the
word fun and not, let us say, the words public safety, natural
history, protection of farmers, or sporting exercise.

I I ‘HIS kind of 'fun is one of the reasons why it is so

 




 

The otter is a harmless animal. He lives a life in which
the amount of his offence towards man can be put in a
match—box. It is true that he lives on fish, but so also do
herons and wild duck and pike and kingfishers and cats and
rmen and women. But since very few of us ever eat fresh-water
fish, the only people who have a genuine grievance against
the otter are fishermen. But fishermen are, generally, un—
vindictive men who go through life nursing, not a grievance
against otters, but a fixed and boyish desire to catch fish of
fabulous size. If anyone could honestly claim to hunt otters
on grounds of revenge, it would be fishermen. But otters
are not hunted by fishermen. They are hunted by those
people whose notions of fun were satirised by that devastating
remark of a famous Frenchman concerning the English:
“ It’s a lovely day. Let’s go out and kill something.”

Fun for the Sportsman

Thus, one of the supreme arguments of fox-hunters, that
the fox is a pest, carries no weight at all when it comes to
otters. Otters are shy, elusive, unsavage creatures, the last
remaining water animals of any considerable size in this
country. Since they are so unhostile and so inoffensive why,
then, are they hunted P And the answer is, of course, for fun.

The question now arises, fun for whom ? In foxshunting the
fun is popularly supposed to be equally divided between
hunter‘and hunted. Hunters assure us that the fox enjoys
it all. Having also great powers of mobility and cunning, he
has chances of escape. The otter’s chances of escape are
clearly much less; since he is mainly a water mammal, the
mobility of his movements is severely restricted. He is safe
only in the deepest water.

But these restrictions do not matter. If he cannot be
hunted over a wide area, he can at least be hunted for a
long time. If to be hunted is fun, then that fun is surely
greater if long-drawn—out. It is clear also that hunters them-
selves are restricted, since the fun is naturally hampered by
much messing about in cold water, by the necessity for smoking
out the otter with rags of burning parafﬁn and so on.

Fun for the Otter

Thus, in order to equalise this business of fun, to make it
pleasant for otters as well as man, otters are hunted not only
for a long time, for seven or eight or ten or even eleven hours
at. a stretch, but in spring. This is clearly a splendid time.
Rivers are then lovely with ‘kingcup and ladysmock, meadows




are starred and belled with daisy and cowslip, and, above all,
the female otter is in cub. She may even have given birth
to her cubs. But what matter ? She is about to be afforded
the pleasure, the privilege, of being harried and hunted and
having her living guts ripped out by forty human beings,
twenty or thirty hounds and some terriers.* Spring, the
period of gestation and delivery, is perhaps a little awkward
for her. But it cannot be helped. She is very lucky, since
this same hunt, thinly disguised, is still much occupied with
foxes, to be hunted at all. Nor would it be of much use to
her to protest, even if she could protest with anything more
articulate than the voice of agony and pain, that she had her
living cubs in her belly. The fox, too, has cubs in spring,
and is it not great fun for the fox also ?

Fun is a curious word. It has many meanings and perhaps
I misconstrue it P And since I have never seen an otter, except
behind the glass of a painted case, who am I to say that the
otter does not enjoy the fun of having its belly bloodily ripped ?
Indeed, I am sure that it does enjoy it, just as a horse, leaping
over a fence, enjoys the laceration of its own guts by barbed
wire, just as a dog enjoys being half smashed under the Wheels
of a car, and just as a child would enjoy, let us say, having a
limb amputated without an anaesthetic. If you have it one
way you must have it another. All flesh is a vehicle of pain.

Pain, too, like fun, is a word of many meanings and it is
not surprising, perhaps, that for many peOple the two things
are synonymous. For such people the laceration of an otter’s
living flesh is an amusing thing. I do not find this in the least
hard to believe. Such people would, I think, take pleasure in
publicly hanging negroes and burning them after death. What
difference, for these people, between the thick—skinned otter
and the thick-skinned negro ?

The Laggard Law

But what does astonish me is that the law of this country
still allows this rotten and most bloody exhibition of human
behaviour. If I were to get up from this chair, arm myself
with a stick and beat the nearest dog to the point of death,
I shouldlearn the contempt of all decent men and the penalty
of the laW on tOp of it in the shape of fines or imprisonment.
And no one would question the justice of it and no one would
listen to my pleas that it was sport. Similarly, if a cockney
bird-catcher took bullfinches and goldfinches by methods

* These are high figures : often the fields and packs are much smaller.

 




involving pain, and was caught in the act, he would share my
fate. But the law of this country, still too often framed on
the assumption that property is higher than life, especially
if it is the property of the rich and the life of the poor, has
no objection, no condemnation and no penalty for those
sections of the public who have nothing better to do than to
incite one set of animals to rip out the living guts of another.
Such repugnant bloodiness in a so-called civilised age and
country makes me wish, sometimes, that the laws of England
could be framed, for a change, behind the walls of a madhouse.

(Reprinted from “ Down the River,” by H. E. Bates (Victoe Gollancz,
Ltd., London, 1937, 10/6 net), by special permission of the authorand
publishers. )

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS
4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.l

Information from the Secretary.

 

OTHER PUBLICA TIONS.

 

SLAUGHTER OF BEAUTY: OTTER-HUNTING
By John Tunnard. 2d.

IS OTTER-HUNTING FAIR SPORT ?
1d. each or 25 copies for Is.

A special leaflet for children.

 

Publication No. 37] Price 1d.

 




