‘PREVENTION AND CURE OF CRIME
AMONG CHILDREN

By Nathaniel J. Walker, Troy, New York, (Secretary,
, j The American Humane Association,
S retary and General Superintendent, The Mohawk and Hudson 'ver
Humane .Society, and *Chief Probation Ofﬁcer for the cities
:of Albany, Troy, Watervliet and Rensselaer.

[Paper presented at the 3‘2d Annual Meeting :of The American Humane Asso-
ciation, New Orleans, Nov. 17-19, 1908.]

While it can with truth be said that no movement for the
betterment of mankind has made greater progress than the effort
for improved methods in preventing and curing child delinquency,
and, while each year we are steadily diminishing the number of
recruits to the great army of dependents and criminals, yet our
work is but just begun.

ENFORCEMENT OF LAW.

In our efforts- to prevent and cure child delinquency, the strict
enforcement of all laws for their protection will always be a
powerful factor. ‘

Some of these statutes, the rigid enforcement of which means
so muchfor the flitELewve-lfare of the youth of this country, are
those ﬁxmg the prespons1bility of the parent for the health, morals
and act-s of the child; the statutes regulating street trades and
'Vagrancy; the compulsory education and labor laws and those
ﬁxing a penalty for permitting children to frequent saloons, con-
cert halls, gambling establishments and various kind-s of evil
resorts; the statutes which forbid begging, picking refuse and
peddling; the restrictions in regard to the sale of liquor and
tobacco and the circulation of lewd and. immOral literature and
illustrations; forbidding junk dealers to buy from, and pawn-
brokers to loan to, children, and the wise and judicious application
of the probation laws.

OTHER AGENCIES.

Other agencies and forces that are aiding in this Work of saving
and reclaiming the young are boys’ clubs and associations, where
the @171 effects of the hmme and corrupt inﬂuences of the street are
being to some extent counteracted by the inculcation of normal
and healthy ideas; Public play grounds, where highstrung and
spirited boys and girls are being sheltered from immoral com-

 




 

2

panions and permitted to work off surplus energy under proper
supervision. Children’ s libraries, where clean, wholesome reading
is instilling into the mind high ideals and giving the child a
normal and natural View of life as well as a taste for books of the
right sorzt. The fresh—air outings, which, for brief periods, bring
the children under the uplifting influence of tender-hearted men
and women, who labor zealously to improve the children both
morally and physically. Tenement house and settlement work,
which is bringing about better sanitary and moral conditions in
our larger cities, and especially important the practical efforts that
are being made to introduce and promote humane education in
the schools, which, in brief, means the education of the heart as
well as the intellect.

WORK IN THE HOME.

It is generally conceded that the largest percentage of child
criminals come from homes that are either directly or indirectly
responsible for their downfall.

We are coming more and more to realize that the home is the
unit of society, and that if the home is right the intervention of
the State will seldom be required. To preserve the entity of the
home is or should be our ﬁrst effort, whenever possible, and this
means that we must safeguard the future of the children by a
helpful supervision.

Our work of prevention must begin in the home, where we
must either raise the standard of living to a point that. will insure
a fair chance for the children, or, this being impossible, they must
be removed and placed in an environment conducive to their

' future welfare. The law provides. for the enforced separation of‘
'children from homes that cannot be reconstructed on a decent and
"moral basis, and, although always anxious for its preservation,
. we should not. hesitate to invoke the law when other measures

have failed. ,

. In fact, it is being demonstrated constantly that many of the
homes of delinquent parents can be reconstructed to an extent that
will give reasonable hope for the future of the: children.

'T he failure of so many parents to properly train and govern
their children arises from a variety of causes. Chief among these
are immorality, drunkenness, s-elfiShness, ignorance, poverty and a
general indifference. , -

Our ﬁrst effort is naturally along the lines of education and

- enoouragement. A ﬁrm but kindly supervision ﬁnds many of

 




 

3

these people Open to suggestion and advice in regard to the care
and supervision of their children.

Parental instinct is seldom, if ever, entirely dead, although it
may be dormant, and when intelligently brought to bear as a
factor in our efforts to better conditions .it is a powerful lever.
Incompetent, ignorant, careless or thoughtless parents have a much
greater depth of feeling for their children than] we usually give
them credit for and are seldom without qualities that will respond
to a spirit of helpfulness and Cooperation.

That it is quite possible to: transform or greatly improve the
environment of such children by coercive measures against the
parents, followed by sensible and. sympathetic cooperation, is
beyond question. '

While discipline and repressive measures in themselves will. not
inspire right ideas of living or change one’ s character, yet they
will frequently bring a delinquent parent, whose neglect is end-an—
gering the future of the children, to a thoughtful frame of mind,
when kind and earnest effort in their behalf may result in per?
manent betterment.

Unquestionably the neglectful father is a proliﬁc source of juve
nile delinquency. There are many, cases where the mother, if she
were not compelled to become the bread—winner of the family,
would give the children fair oversight and training. Here very
effective and practical work can be accomplished by compelling

’ the father to do his duty. It. is surprising how many of these

men can be brought to their senses by advice and warning and, in
the event of this failing, by a judicious application of the law. In
this class of cases we now have the probation system, by the aid of
which. many homes are being kept intact by compelling the father
to contribute regularly toward the maintenance of the family.

HUMANE EDUCATION.

Aside from the work in the home no other factor means so much
for the future of our children as the teaching of kindness and
justice in the schools. At no period in their lives are children
more impressionable than during the ﬁrst years in school. This,
then, is the time to arouse their sympathies for the help-less and the
lower orders of creation. .

If every school in this broad land were supplied with proper
humane text—books, thousands of children who are growing up with
absolutely no sense of justice or consideration for the weak would
be forming characters that would not Only uplift themselves but
would also make them a great inﬂuence for good in the world.

 




 

 

41'

\ Slowly but surely our teachers and educators are coming to
realize that mere intellectual education does not necessarily make
good citizens and that the education of the child should be along
such lines as to direct their thoughts and practices towards kind—
ness and mercy. In no other ﬁeld, save in the home, are there
greater possibilities, and the money spent in this education of the
heart will yield rich dividends in moral, unselﬁsh and righteous
citizenship. ' '
ASSOCIATION.

, Children are imitative creatures, and for this reason the power

of example is a most important factor in either preventing or
producing delinquency.

. We ﬁnd in almost every boy a. natural instinct for companion—
ship, and vhen there is no happy ﬁreside, his associates are
usually the crowd on the corner where obscene stories and lewd
subjects occupy much-4 of the time. Association becomes indeed '
a- serious menace to the future of the boy who spends much of
his time on the streets. How to protect him from this evil is a
serious problem. Curfew ordinances, such as have been enacted in
different cities, seem to be non~enforceable. They are usually
regarded as too general and an infringement upon personal liberty.
' Yet I ﬁrmly believe that in the small-er cities, at least, a reasonable
statute forbidding children from being habitually on the street
after a given hour could be used to great advantage in our efforts
to control the street associations of the young.

, SENSATIONAL LITERATURE, CHE-AP Snows, CIGARETTES.

Few of us have fully realized what a pernicious inﬂuence
indecent, immoral and sensational- literature has upon the child
mind.

Closely following objectionable literature comes the mania for
cheap shows and the craving for cigarettes. The appetite for one
seems to arouse the other. If you will visit one of the cheap
theatres and note the unnatural and strained f aces of many of the
boys crowded together in the gallery you will be convinced, not only
that these performances, many of them revel-mg in crime, have a
direct inﬂuence in shaping their characters, but also they would
stop at nothing to gain admission. The mere congregating of
children in large numbers in show houses is demoralizing and
injurious to their morals. Many boys have taken their ﬁrst step
toward a criminal career by committing larcency to satisfy their
craving for shows patterned after Id'imehnovel heroes.




CURE OF CRIME.

The methods and practices employed in curing child crime
have indeed improved since the days when hanging was consid-
ered the proper punishment for ,many offenses. '

' When our forefathers reached the conclusion that hanging was
a triﬂe too drastic they “ reformed ’ ’ the youthful criminal by con-
ﬁning him in foul and loathsome prisons where he received
exactly the same consideration as the adult prisoner, charged with
the most heinous offenses, with whom he was compelled to associate.

The inhumanity of herding children with men and women lost
to all sense of decency and who took diabolical enjoyment in bring—
ing the children to their level, ﬁnally aroused humanitarians. to
the necessity of separate places of conﬁnement.

HOUSES or REFUGE.

.The establishment of houses of refuge for delinquent children
was the ﬁrst real effort to build up: instead of break down- the
morals of the child while in conﬁnement. Yet how crude and
insufﬁcient these reformatories were. They were conducted '
largely along the same lines as the ordinary prison, even to con-
ﬁning the children in cells. _ .

Gradually the character of the reform atory or training school
has been changed and within a few years has become an acknowl—
edged force in reclaiming delinquent boys and girls. No longer
are they merely houses‘of detention for the immature criminal. .

TRAINING SCHOOLS.

The training and industrial school of to—day with its classiﬁca-
tion of inmates; its cottage system; its industrial and agricultural
training; its ﬁne school curriculum and its constant effort to
stimulate and arouse all that. is good in the child, is curing‘
delinquency and starting many boys and girls out into the world
fortiﬁed to cope with the temptations, the difﬁculties and the
problems of life. ' _

The training received by these children while in custody deter-
mines to a large extent what their future careers Will be and it
should be practical and such as to equip them for occupations that
they are capable of following. . '

Necessarily the reformation of children conﬁned in institutions
must depend largely upon the character and the earnestness of
those in charge. Good as well as evil is contagious, and a strong

 




 

6

personality working with the single and sincere purpose of instill-
ing into the minds bof the children lessons of purity and industry,
is fully as important as all of the improved metho-.ds

However, V1 11th all the reform in institutional management we
know that they come far short of the ideal and that in committing
children to institutions we are placing them in an unnatural atmos-
phere where their lives must necess arily be limited . and narrow.
The commitment of children to reform institutions therefore
should be resorted. to only as a last resort after all other efforts
have failed.

PROBATION.

The adoption of the probation system in the treatment of
‘ juvenile delinquency has now become quite general throughout
the country. There can no longer be doubt as to its efﬁcawcy Its
worth as a child— —saving agency, when wisely applied, is accepted
by all students of this problem.

Probation seems to be the logical outcome of the years of study
to understand the delinquent child and his needs. First of all it
assumes that the boy who is brought to court for the commission
of crime is not in any sense a criminal to be punished, but is
usually the product of domestic and social conditions for which
he is in no way responsible. It is preventive rather than punitive.
It substitutes character building for punishment, and endeavors
to stimulate self—respect in the mind of the probationer. It at all
times strives to learn the source or cause of the delinquency and
when found endeavors to correct it. _

, The probation ofﬁcer soon learns that the vital element is the
environment of the child. Here again, as in our efforts to pre-
vent delinquency, 121 e are IconfrIIbonted with the problem of the home,
and if we are to fully succeed we must improve the home and
arouse the parents to a sense of their responsibility. In fact, in
many cases, we must consider the parents the real probationers.

Probation is accomplishing almost miraculous results in curing
child delinquency because it appeals to a sense of justice and
fairness which is to be found in almost every child. The great
majority of boys who are brought into our courts charged with
crime are possessed of all the natural emotions and ambitions of
the average bIon. When haled into court they will show vicious-
nIess, stubbornness, defiance and indifference, but this is largely
assumed, as these boys at play in their natural element differ little
from the ordinary child. They may, and in many cases do, bear
evidences of their bad environment in their talk and general con—

 




 

 

 

’7'
I

duct, but at heart they are much the same as. the average boy full
of life and vigor.

A sympathetic interest in all that concerns and interests the
probationer is the shortest road to his conﬁdence, and once an
understanding is reached, and the probationer fully impressed with
the idea that you are trying to help instead of punish him, the
improvement is marked.

A spirit of helpfulness must be the foundation of all successful
probation work and while the consequences of continued mis-
behavior should not be lost sight of, we can accomplish little in
the way of genuine improvement by continued coercion. Yet we
must always insist on obedience and veracity and should not. per-
mit sympathy to be misunderstood for weakness. Firmness and
helpfulness are in no way antagonistic. As the ofﬁcer and the
probationer learn to understand each other, the situation changes
and gradually we show our trust and conﬁdence in each other. To
be [trusted arouses the best in all our natures and our characters
are greatly strengthened if we are true to any trust reposed in us.
This is true of the probationer, but it is equally true that if he
violates his trust his character is correspondingly weakened.

Probation should not be so sentimental or loosely adminis
tered as to create in the mind of the child that; he is being pam—
pered and not held responsible for his acts. Such methods will
almost certainly result in lack of respect for law and the authori—
ties who administer it and is likely to be taken as a license for
further delinquency.

The cure of delinquency by probation methods must necessarily
depend largely upon the personality of the ofﬁcer; his knowledge
of children generally {and his ability to understand the individual
probationer. Machine methods cannot be applied in probation
work. '

' It is essentially a work based upon the individual characteristics
of each boy, his temperament, associations and home surroundings.
No two boys or girls are just alike, and the methods successfully
used in one case may meet with complete failure if applied to
another. The ofﬁcer must have patience, tact and skill and
. should not be discouraged because he does not work miracles.
Even nature changes slowly and we must bear in mind that
hlabits and ideas once formed, cling to boys persistently and irre—
sistibly and that the average juvenile delinquent has been well
grounded in the ways: of deception, lying and stealing, and that
to teach them better habits and arouse them to higher thoughts
must be a slow process. Yet it is being demonstrated constantly

:- 0’.

c.
O.

 




8

that beneath this veneer of lawlessness there are good qualities,
which, if encouraged, will develop moral and industrious citizens.

The system which substitutes human sympathy and interest for
punishment is now a most important agency in curing child erime,
and as its great possibilities are more thoroughly understood and
its application becomes more general, still greater results are to
be looked for.

The home, the church and the school, as well as all the agencies
which uns elﬁsh men and women have created to uplift and ennobl-e
the young and to shield them from those who would debase and
bring ruin to their lives, are constantly at work, and these forces
are steadily bringing about a readjustment of conditions that will
surely. result in preventing crime among children.

/

 

I

Note.— The American ‘Humane Association publishes many leaﬂets of interest to
humanitarians. Information in regard to the same can be obtained by addressing
the Association, Albany, New York, U. S. A. A single copy of an individual leaﬂet
- Will be furnished gratuitously if a two cent stamp be enclosed with request. A small
charge to cover cost of printing and mailing will be made for leaﬂets furnished in
quantities. Contributions are solicited to aid in the distribution of humane literature
and the general purposes of the work.

 




