- fr, /
en .
a, \ -\l/ ”4/ /[ /_ v,“ /
l ///%// ‘ Nb
2% / ”i" //
{1}“: $V%///%II// /,,1- .

..t\
/ .
n.
a;
A,

l
'7/
/,
I

 

John M. Reid.

BY J. LEONARD CATHER.

“ Ye Jim/l ﬁnd an an tied, and 4 ml! wit/.2 leer .' [owe tbe/n, and bring z‘benz nnz‘e
Me. And if any man my ongbz‘ unto you, ye snail reg), T/Je Lord lent/9 need of ween.”—
Gospel appointed for the first Sunday of Advent in the Church of England.

the coming of the Prince of Peace. What witness does the world bear of their

preparations? Do men, looking for the gladness of His coming, act in the

likeness of His goodness, and expend themselves in giving happiness to their
fellow—creatures ? “ Peace on earth to men of goodwill,” sang the angels—the invisible,
inaudible messengers of God’s will—to those whose senses were temporarily quickened
to observe them. What witness would those same messengers bear of the goodwill of
men? Looking at mankind and the world with their vision, how would the relationship
of the one to the other appear?

There is another, a more dreadful, advent in progress—an advent due to the behests
of men, not to the gift of the Divine providence. All over the world, from every quarter
and throughevery land, the caravans of death are moving. Bird and beast and fish are
on their last pilgrimage of bitter tribulation and agony, that the desires of man may be
satiated.

If Christ comes to Christendom at Christmastide, He comes through streets hung
with carcases of slain creatures, through air heavy with the taint of corruption. His
churches are filled with worshippers whose bodies are clad in the skins of tortured beasts,
and whose minds in part are turned towards the feast of which in‘a short time they will
be partaking. For men it may be the season of jollity, but for animals it isthe season
of terror, for it is the season of “ sport,” when game on foot or wing is driven, hunted,
harried, and killed. It is the season of holiday, when drilled, disciplined, and nervous
beasts are forced through foolish and unnatural performances for the delight of those
who take delight in foolish things. And these are but seasonal aggravations of the
common lot of those whom “ humanity ” exploits and despoils. Animals are now, as
always, toiling by night and day in subterranean darkness that men may have light;
suffering disease and torment, that men, as they hope, may ﬁnd health and freedom from
the results of their ignorance and folly; pining away in cages the lives that were given
to be passed in the freedom of the open air and sunlight; or by land and air and sea being
hunted to their deaths in the ordinary course of proﬁt-making or the pursuit of pleasure.

5‘ T this season throughout the Christian world believers are preparing to celebrate

 




\\

. . . , . \ .
Is it not the b1tterest of irony that from thousands of churches rises the canticle:

“ O ye Whales, and all that move in the Waters, bless ye the
Lord: praise Him and magnify Him for ever. ‘

“ O all ye Fowls of the Air, bless ye the Lord: praise Him
and magnify Him for ever.

“ O all ye Beasts, and Cattle, bless ye the Lord : praise Him
and magnify Him for ever.”

TThe questions rise: Do Christians believe that God made the world and all that
therein is for any purpose but that of enslavement to the caprice and cupidity of men?
Does it mean nothing that, according to the biblical account of the creation, God saw
each several natural order and found that it was good; that the covenant of the rainbow
was made with “ every living creature of all ﬂesh, with the fowl, the cattle, and every
beast of the earth ”?

Is it for nothing that again and again we are told that all creatures look to the provi—
dence of God for their sustenance—that Christ Himself said that not even a sparrow is
forgotten before God P Is it for nothing that St. Paul declares that the Gospel—the good
tidings of the Fatherhood of God and the reconciliation of all things in earth and heaven
——was preached not only to “ the saints and faithful brethren ” to whom he is writing,
but “ to every creature which is under heaven,” and that “ the creature itself shall be
delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of
God ”P Or that in the Revelation of St. John: “ Every creature which is in heaven,
and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in
them,” take part in the adoration of Him that sitteth upon the throne?

“ Doth God take care for oxen?”

Through long ages, through millions of years, the Divine Life, of which all things
are, in which all things exist, has made itself manifest in ever progressing modes of con—
sciousness, working gradually upwards from the mineral to the vegetable, from the
vegetable to the animal, from the animal to man, from man to—what? Are not these

“ the great world’s altar stairs
That slope thro’ darkness up to God ”?

And now, at the last, our civilisation, our Christendom, has in a few decades of
years, and by a process of exploitation ever increasing, brought near to extinction one
whole stage of those same altar stairs, one ﬁeld of that evolving consciousness.

This civilisation is the creation of a few hundred years. In a score and a half of
centuries, the civilisations of Babylon, Assyria, Egypt, Greece, Rome, Arabia, have risen
and ﬂowered and died. Slavery, sloth, greed, exploitation, destroy but do not build;
knowledge, turned to ignoble ends, creates the machinery for destruction. What are
our deserts P May not the powers of Nature, which day by day we outrage in increasing
measure, join in the Advent hymn:

“ O quickly come, dread Judge of all;
For, awful though Thine Advent be,

All shadows from the truth will fall,
And falsehood die, in sight of Thee.”

Reprinted from The Anima/r Friend, December, 1930.

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE,
gérGeRBON—Sotmomﬁé—I.

 




