 

ETHICS 0F VIVISEUTION.

BY

MARY MOKINNEL.

c/ \9
“MW ___.______

LONDON;

W. STEWART & C0., 41, FARRINGDON STREET, EC.

 




 

 

 




 

The Ethics , 0f Vivisection.

‘To some, perhaps, the word “vivisection ” is of vague
import. In plain English, therefore, it means simply
the cutting up of living animals 3 but in modern practice
its signiﬁcation is more than this—viz., an amount of
mutilation and prolonged, and often agonising, torture
of many kinds, perpetrated practically to an unlimited
extent, in the name of Science, upon the helpless brute
creation; which ought to make humanity blush in any
age, and which is doubly a disgrace upon our nineteenth-
-century civilisation.

But some will ask, Can such things be? Do they
actually take place, and are such practices permitted, and
sanctioned by the law, at least of our own country?
Alas! yes. Vivisection has not only been made legal,
but is extensively practised in Great Britain. And, again,
you may naturally inquire: But is it not only under
stringent restrictions that such practices are permitted,
and are not the animals submitted to vivisectional ex-
perimentation required ﬁrst to be anaesthetisedhthat is,
rendered insensible to pain by chloroform or other
drugs, being administered to them for that purpose; and
also, when seriously injured, are they not ordered, on
recovery from this state, or as soon afterwards as possible,
to be killed P To these questions I shall give you the
answer offacz‘s ,- for to such inquiries the answers given
to the public, and the information in general furnished
from ofﬁcial sources on this subject, have been frequently,
and for obvious reasons, misleading.

According to Parliamentary returns, the number of
licensed vivisectors in Great Britain in 1891 was 152——

 




 

4 THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION.

ﬁgures which do not, however, represent the actual
number of persons engaged in Vivisection, as assistants
are frequently employed who hold no licenses. Of these
152 a considerable number hold what is called a free or
unlimited license—that is, a license permitting its holder
to experiment upon living animals to any extent, and in
any way the holder might choose, wit/mu! the use of
anmsthetics. To their shame be it said, not a few
physiologists, even in this country, take advantage of this
license; while on the Continent, where there is not
even a limited restriction on these hideous experiments,
a large number of medical men, and of physiologists,
follow this terrible mode of investigation into the secrets
of nature, rather than those wiser and more humane
methods which, by clinical and microscopic observation,
and the anatomical dissection of the lifeless body, have
—so the greatest authorities state—myielded hitherto the
best, because the most reliable, results, as well as the
greatest triumphs of physiological and medical science.

That experiments by Vivisection are largely on the
increase in our own country Government statistics prove ;
for, while in 1876, when the Act ﬁrst came in force,
the number of licensed vivisectors was 23, it has in-
creased to I52, and that of licensed places from 19 to
66. The number of experiments during twelve months
has risen from 481 to 2,661, of which those without
anaesthetics have increased from 164 to 1,406. Yet it
is much to be feared that even these ﬁgures do not re—
present the extent to which such experiments actually
took place.

Then on the Continent, it may be stated without fear of
contradiction—for the facts are widely known—Zz'z‘emZ/y
t/zozzsmm’s of animals, of various kinds, are sacriﬁced to
this Moloch of so-called science, whose worshippers are
too frequently augmented by investigators from this
country, seeking greater freedom for experiment than as yet
obtains here. But, to those who imagine that the most
cruel of these experiments are conﬁned to the Continent
even'now, it will be sufﬁcient to know that many of the
instruments required for the most complicated torture
are constantly advertised in our own professional journals
and circulars, thus showing that there is a demand for

 




 

 

THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION. 5

them 3 and when I tell you that many of the investiga-
tions for which they have been invented are of the most
excruciatingly-agonising description-—and even purpose/y
made so—on the sensitive bodies of highly—organised
animals, such as dogs, cats, and even horses, mules, and
asses—in short, on our dumb companions and often
faithful friends and servants, besides many other help-
less creatures which are thus subjected, very oﬂen with—
out any mitigation from anaesthetics, to prolonged and
unutterable suffering, you may form some idea of what
this system is, without my entering into its shocking
details, which would only harrow your feelings, perhaps
unnecessarily 3 and yet we should then be only tearing
of what sentient, and often highly-organised, creatures,
many of them as sensitive to pain as ourselves, have to
suffer!

Of the true nature of these experiments the following
list of instruments used for them will enlighten the
reader. In the city of Cambridge there has existed for
several years what is called a “Scientiﬁc Instrument
Company,” and another in Oxford Street in London,
where appliances for vivisection can be obtained, many
of which are very costly. The catalogue contains the
following items, which truly read more like an inventory
from the torture-chambers of the Inquisition than of
implements we should expect to ﬁnd required by modern
science, or in a civilised country z—Artiﬁcial respiration
apparatus (suitable to the largest dog or smallest rabbit) 3
batteries (for stimulating nerves)3 cannulae (tubes for
inserting in the windpipe for artiﬁcial respiration)3
clampS3 dog-holders (improved from Bernard’s model——
that is, Claude Bernard, the great Continental vivisector
——and suited to both large and small animals) 3 onco-
meter (for kidney of the rabbit and dog—do for spleen
of dog); rabbit-holder; tetanus spring (the number of
sfz'mu/az‘z'om per second of the nerve may be. raised to
any extent required), etc. ,

Now, many of the experiments indicated by these
instruments are not, and some cannot be, performed
under anaesthetics, which would invalidate them 3 and
hence the animals are submitted to them just as they
are, often with all the agony of fear superadded 3 for

 




 

6 THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION.

those who have witnessed them state that the poor
creatures frequently manifest an instinctive conscious-
ness that they are in danger, and seem mutely to appeal
for mercy.

Then, again, when anaesthetics are administered, either
wholly or partially, during an operation, the unfortunate
creatures awake ere long to a full sense of their
misery, not seldom continuing, and prolonged by their
mutilated and otherwise injured condition, for hours,
days, and even weeks, of horrible suffering, which has
been admitted by its perpetrators even to be in some
instances the most excruciating which it is possible even
to conceive; for you may not perhaps have realised
that these “scientiﬁc physiologists” have the power, by
their knowledge, as well as the means, to produce
suffering far greater than, and beyond, any which occurs
naturally, or which is the result even of the most painful
disease or accident. And yet, added to all this, there is a
deeper depth of horror still viz., the practice, now very
common, of what is called curarising, in the ﬁrst place,
the animals devoted to these experiments; that is,
administering to them, before an operation, a drug
called aware, the dreadful property of which is that,
while depriving the animal subject to its action of all
power to move, or even to utter a moan to relieve its
anguish, it at the same time stimulates the nerves of
sensation, thus greatly augmenting suffering; while, by
an excess of cruelty which seems inconceivable, death,
which would otherwise take place through asphixiation,
is prevented, by artiﬁcial respiration, kept up, at the
will of the operator, by means of the apparatus above
mentioned—via, a small pumping engine, made for the
purpose, and connected with the windpipe of the animal.
These engines are part of the ordinary equipment of
the laboratories where such experiments take place, both
on the Continent and in Great Britain; but facts such
as these have been kept as much as possible from the
British public.

What is the pretext for all this inﬂiction of misery—this
practical denial of the rights of any of God’s creatures
save those of man alone? Simply the promotion of
science, falsely so-called 3 for I will not admit that to be

 

 




 

 

THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION. 7

science, in the true sense of the word, which requires to
be fostered at the expense of things higher—viz., of
mercy, justice, and pity. In this country, it is true,
the plausible excuse is advanced that vivisection is
practised for the beneﬁt of humanity, and a new name
has been given to the institution which vivisectors are
trying to establish in England on the line of Pasteur’s
in France, and to which they have given the mis-
leading title of “the Preventive School of Medicine.”
Preventive of what, we may well ask ; for can any, even
of its most enthusiastic upholders, tell what ill that poor
humanity is heir to it has prevented, and still less been
the means of curing? Not certainly that terror of the
human race, rabies—better known as hydrophobia—to
prevent which thousands of poor dogs, besides other
animals, have been, and are still, sacriﬁced, in torments,
under Pasteur’s system for the prevention of that terrible
disease, which, nevertheless, is more frequent in France
since this treatment commenced than it ever was before.
Not tuberculosis 3 though hundreds of unfortunate con-
sumptive patients were deluded—to the scandal of medi—
cal science, be it said—into trying Koch’s fatal remedy,
itself the disgusting product of “cultivated” disease,
under the same delusive system. Has it been able to
eradicate cancer, or arrest paralysis, or overcome, in fact,
any of the sad diseases which afﬂict humanity? Alas!
no 3 but it has, we are told on good authority, (reared
some—such, for instance, as the rage a’e Laéomz‘oz‘re,
a madness akin to hydrophobia, and which is known to
be the direct, and not infrequent, result of inoculations
of Pasteur’s vivisection-produced virus. Yet the up-
holders of this system of research never seem to be
enlightened, or to proﬁt by reiterated experience, but
still follow their zgrm'sfaz‘uus with fatal infatuation ! Con-
tinental investigators, however, laugh at what they call
“English squeamishness,” and at the hypocrisy of our
physiologists, who, they say, try to salve the conscience
of the British public by the pretence of beneﬁtting
humanity, while they endeavour to cloak their own
wicked cruelty under a scarcely less transparent fallacy-—
viz., the “promotion of science 3” and yet one of the
most eminent of their number has declared, after

 




 

8 THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION.

a lifetime passed in such investigation, “Our hands are
empty ”—that is, of results bearing on the healing art.
Professor Hermann, of Zurich, says: “The advance-
ment of our knowledge, and not utility to medicine, is
the true and straightforward object of all vivisection.
No true investigator, in his researches, thinks of the
practical utilisation. Science can afford to despise this
justiﬁcation with which vivisection has been defended
in England.”

In our own country the most noted of Scotch vivi-
sectors has also stated that he “has no sanguine hope
of speedy beneﬁts to be derived,” and that many experi—
ments made on animals will have to be tested on the
human subject before any certain or satisfactory result
can be obtained; and, indeed, this is what it is coming
to, and a danger by many as yet undreamt of, though
by no means distant; for facts of this nature, in con-
nection with foreign hospitals at least, have already been
reported upon undoubted authority, which have caused
a widespread uneasiness in this country. To me they
are, I must confess, not unexpected, and seem but the
natural outcome of afalse system and of irresponsible
power; for what do you suppose can be the result of
the teaching of such a school as that of vivisection—
upon our medical students, for instance, many of whom
are women P One of these, but not a woman I am glad
to say, who was frequently present at Professor Ruther-
ford’s experiments on living animals, when asked lately
how he felt when seeing such, replied: “ Oh! you get
used to it!”

Women students even, I am told, in the Paris
schools of demonstrations by these methods, now
witness them unmoved! Is there not deadly danger
in such a state of things, think you—danger to the
very existence of that true perception of the relative
position of doctor and patient, which is surely doubly
necessary to the possession of youthful members of a
profession to whom the lives of the next generation will
be, to a great extent, entrusted? Yet what a stunting
here of the growth of all that tender, yet practical,
sympathy with suffering for which the medical pro-
fession have been noted, and which has made so many




THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION. 9

doctors, hitherto, the most loved and welcome of visitors
to the afﬂicted. But save us-from vivisectors. Imagine
for a moment the feelings of a patient, suffering,
perhaps, from some obscure disease, likely to arouse the
(experimenting spirit, and delivered up to it!

I will now give some specimens of the latter, not of
feelings, for truly they seem devoid of such, but of the
thoughts and utterances of some of the most noted
exponents of “Scientiﬁc Torture ”—vizi, Professors
Cyon, Klein, and Mantegazza, the latter of whom, in
speakingof pain, produced by the rack and by nails
and pincers, of a description too sickening to detail here,
says: “These my experiments were conducted with
much delight and extreme patience for the space of a

year”! Again, Professor Cyon, when alluding to Vivi-
section in general, viewed in the light of a ﬁne art,
remarks: “The true vivisector should approach a

difﬁcult experiment with joyous eagerness and delight!
He who, shrinking from the dissection of a living
creature, approaches experimentation as a disagreeable
"necessity, may indeed repeat various vivisections, but
can never become an artist in vivisection ....... The chief
delight of the vivisector is that experienced when, from
an ugly-looking wound, ﬁlled with bloody humours and
injured tissue, he draws out the delicate nerve ﬁbres,
and by means of irritants revives its apparently extinct
sensation”! Surely such utterances might come from
devils rather than human beings, born with like instincts
as our own. Do not imagine, however, that such men
as these are to be found only in foreign countries. When
before the Royal Commission in London, Dr. Klein,
who is considered one of the scientiﬁc lights of that
great city, on being asked, “ Do you mean that you have
no regard for the sufferings of the animals?” replied,
“No regard at all.” Dr. Klein has also stated, with
reference to such regard for animal suffering, that he
“ knows no difference between the physiologists of the
Continent and of England, in that respect.”

Let any one who wishes to know the facts and their
teaching read for themselves the reports published in
the medical and scientiﬁc journals, and then judge if it
be not time to awaken the conscience of the nation, and

 




 

IO THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION.

arouse public opinion as to these things, for assuredly
they are of vital import. To quote the words of one of‘
the wisest and noblest of the opponents of vivisection, a
woman who has stood in the forefront of the battle for
many years upon this question, and who has heroically
borne contumelyand misrepresentation for the courageous
part she has taken in behalf of the helpless dumb animals,
for whom her great compassionate heart and noble
intellect have so eloquently pleaded—I allude to Miss.
Frances Power Cobbe—in speaking recently on the
subject, said: “Vivisection is the practical outcome of
principles which assert the limitless rights of strength
over weakness, which rank knowledge above goodness,
and make the systematic suppression of the instinct of
compassion in man, and even in woman, a glory instead
of a disgrace.”

Let us hear also what others, whose judgment and
opinion are best entitled to respect, say upon the same
subject, men of unquestioned scientiﬁc reputation—nay,
some of whom have even themselves been vivisectors, but
who, recognising their mistake, have abjured its errors.
The late eminent Sir Charles Bell, in writing on this sub—
ject, says : “ Experiments have never been the means of
discovery; the opening of living animals has done more
to perpetuate error than to conﬁrm the just views taken
from the study of anatomy and natural motions.” “For
my own part,” he adds, “I cannot believe that Provi-
dence should intend that the secrets of nature are to be
discovered by means of cruelty, and I am sure that those
who are guilty of protracted cruelties do not possess
minds capable of appreciating the laws of nature.” Sir
William Thomson says: “Experiments involving such
torture to so large a number of sentient and intelligent
animals are not justiﬁable by either the object pro-
posed or the results obtained or obtainable.” The late
Sir William Ferguson, President of the British Medical
Association, titular head of his profession, as well as its.
most successful operator—one also of the greatest
anatomists, and its most widely employed practitioner-—
stated, in his evidence before the Royal Commission,
that, “in his opinion, not/Ling had been gained in
surgery by experiments on the lower animals ;” an

 

 




A .‘.As‘ n

 

THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION. II

opinion, says Professor Lawson Tait, of Birmingham—
himself one of the greatest surgeons living——“ which I
entirely endorse.”

Many other celebrated names might be added; but
let these sufﬁce. I am glad, however, to be able to:
state that there are a considerable number of medical
men who are opposed to vivisection, besides the list of
those who have had the courage to let their names be
published; and also upwards of two hundred, from.
Whom, Mr. Lawson Tait says, “ he has received letters
condemning it, but Who have withheld their names.
from esprit 476 £07,155, and the fear of being professionally
boycotted.”

With regard to the medical view of the subject, the non-
professional public are not, of course, in a position to
judge; but there is another, and a higher, aspect of the
question, upon which all right-thinking people are en—
titled to form an opinion—viz, the moral one—and to
this the conscience of the nation must be awakened and
aroused to a sense of responsibility and duty, under the
full weight of the fact that two truths cannot clash, and,
therefore, that what is morally wrong cannot be scien-
tiﬁcally right.

I believe vivisection is, and will be found, morally in-
defensible, as it is and has over and over again been proved
practically useless 3 for, as observed by a recent writer on
the subject, “it is a system built upon outraged nature,
instead of nature obeyed,” and which has been called
truly “a malignant travesty of medical science.” To
the Christian, that form of argument on this question
must seem strongest Which gives expression to the spirit
of Christ’s teaching, not only as to man’s duty to his
fellow man and to himself, but to all creatures dependent
on him, and that is mercy, compassion, consideration,
justice. To the Materialist, to Whom the wondrous.
physical organism may seem all, there must arise surely
something akin to reverence for the helpless dumb
creation, so inﬁnite in variety, so beautiful in adaptability
to the many needs of man, so sensitive to much of the
same pleasure, and, alas I also so capable of feeling the
same agonising pain—that exquisitely harmonious order
of nature which, to the Wise and humane interrogator,

 




 

12 THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION.

yields all necessary knowledge, but confusion only to
those who, disdaining her appointed‘avenues, attempt
to force the sacred portals, and, with coarse arrogance,
rush in where angels fear to tread. But light is coming
even to these, perhaps from unexpected quarters.

In an able address, delivered in London last January,
on “The Intellectual Tendencies of Vivisection,” by Mrs.
Boole, the Widow of the late logician, unexpected
illumination has been thrown upon this subject, which
may, perhaps, do much to disperse the mists which
have obscured the true form of science. The lec-
turer said: “I have always desired that all moral
development should be regulated by the scientiﬁc study
of mental laws, and that we should be guided by scien'
tiﬁc men, under three conditions—~viz., that these should
be truly ‘scientiﬁc,’ sane, and humane.”

The lecturer’s objection to vivisection, therefore, was
that “it takes refuge in an attitude towards algebraic
tests, which in any other science is considered unscien-
tiﬁc; that, when it defends itself, it assumes a postulate
and mode of mental action likely to induce hallucina-
tion; and that it is calculated to foster the excessive
exercise of faculties common to man and to the ape, at
the cost of weakening those by which man differs from
the latter.” In proof of this statement, when speaking
of the mathematical laws which dominate and govern
the human brain, she alluded to the deﬁciency in our
medical colleges of instruction in “the elementary prin-
ciples of these laws” (with regard to their own branch
of science), and observed: “A man may take high
honours in a medical school while knowing nothing of
these laws. He must know the mathematical laws of
force, weight, number, and space, but may never once
have heard the equations of the thinking organ even
stated; and while, consequently, as ignorant as any
savage of the equations of forces affecting his own
business, he may yet grant certiﬁcates of lunacy,
or take irresponsible control of the mentally un-
hinged, and tinker at them as he lists—a grotesque
anomaly, as much as for a consulting engineer not to
know the mathematics of his business.”

“The medical men who cannot understand these

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION. 13

equations,” Mrs. Boole further observed, “are those who
advocate vivisection; those who recognise the brain
equations when ﬁrst stated to them as an algebraic ex-
pression of something their practice has shown them to
be true, and on which they base all their teaching, are
those who denounce vivisection as misleading ....... Thus
the latter are willing to test professional dicta by the
mathematical laws of the machinery with which they have
to deal, and the former object to the test; so we can
easily judge which are on the truly scientiﬁc side .......
The previous working out of the equations would cut
short a vast amount of empirical experimentation,
probably resulting in the dead subject forming sufﬁcient
material without any torture of living animals at all.”

To those unfamiliar with a course of reasoning such
as the above extracts indicate, it may seem too scien-
tiﬁc to follow, much less to grasp, wholly on ﬁrst
acquaintance; but it will be sufﬁcient for our present
purpose to point to the names which are associated
with the teaching it suggests—Viz, those medical
authorities who disapprove, condemn, and oppose the
school of vivisectors, among whom, besides those already
mentioned, are such men as Dr. Bell Taylor, Mr.
George Macilwain, Dr. Hoggan, Dr. Berdoe, Surgeon-
General Gordon, CB, Sir Thomas Watson, and many
others of undoubted standing in their profession, who
have expressed their more or less sweeping condemna-
tion of this method of research. Among great men of
our own time who have connected themselves with the
anti-vivisection cause it is well also to recall such names
as Shaftesbury, Tennyson, Ruskin, Manning, and Brown-
ing, and many others associated with all that is highest
and best in human nature.

In concluding this cursory glance at a subject of
deepest importance, I will quote the eloquent words of
the medical President of the American Anti-Vivisection
Society, Dr. Matthew Woods, as reported in the organ
of the English branch of the movement—~viz., the Z00-
p/zz'lz'sz‘.

“ I believe,” says Dr. Woods, “that the cause of anti-
vivisection, small as it may appear to the uninformed, is
the most important question before the civilised world

 




 

 

I4 THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION.

today; that its triumph or prohibition implies the degra-
dation or elevation of the future; that it is also the most
disinterested and unselﬁsh cause advocated by the present
age. The man who sacriﬁces his ease, wealth, and
energy for the alleviation of the condition of the
poor, justly receives the praise of his fellows, and
often the gratitude of those who are the recipients of his
bounty.

“The philanthropist interested in bettering the con-
dition, moral, mental, and physical, of the unfortunates
conﬁned in our gaols, justly receives recognition and
approval, if not encouragement, in his work. But the
man or woman who attempts to protect animals from
barbarity, and means to denude cruelty in high places
from the tawdry and meretricious rags that conceal her,
and to exhibit her in all her frightful ugliness, very often
receives but the shrug of misapprehension, and but
rarely, if ever, the appreciation of the dumb creatures
for whom the efforts are made 5 and I thoroughly believe
that the time will come when, because of an enlight-
ened public opinion, due to our efforts, scientiﬁc cruelty
will be prohibited by legal enactment, and relegated to
the limbo of abandoned barbarities. Then the pioneers
in the anti—vivisection crusade, like the leaders in the
sacred cause of the abolition of slavery, will be credited
with belonging to—

‘ The choir invisible
Of those immortal dead who live again
In minds made better by their presence.’

“We shall always hope to speak the truth without
fear; and, unless our conﬁdence in the ultimate triumph
of right is misplaced, this hope is bound to be realised,
for the scalpel of the vivisector, after all, is but a hideous
ﬂash in the darkness. Right is an eternal ray.”

Since the above paper was written, Professor Lawson
Tait, in a letter to the editor of the Times newspaper,
on November 8th, 1892, again gave expression to his
conﬁrmed opinion and experience on this subject, an
opinion the importance and weight of which, from a
scientist of his professional standing, can scarcely be

 

 




 

 

THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION. 15

over-estimated, and which still further strengthens the
position of those opponents of vivisection who, from
lack of similar knowledge, cannot enter the lists of con-
'troversy on these lines, yet who perceive and feel that
science, to be truly so-called, must of necessity be in
harmony with the still higher and more deeply impor-
tant moral aspect of the question.

 




 




