In the June 2l, l966 bulletin of the National Society for Medical
Research (l330 Massachusetts Avenue, N. w., Washington, D. C.)

labeled the status of laboratory animal legislation we find the state-
ments: -

”The-bill still includes primates, guinea pigs, hamsters and
rabbits in addition to dogs and cats. The elimination of :‘
animals other than dogs and cats would improve the-bill con-
siderably. HOpefully this will be accomplished by the Con-
ference Committee.”

‘“The bill should be improved in the Senate-House Conference by
elimination of ‘other animals' and by limiting search provisions
to animal storage areas, but the coverage of the bill to include
regulation of laboratory animal care by research facilities in
the way prescribed by the Senate version of the bill is not
likely to be altered. If such a bill becomes law, the threat of
much-more-restrictive legislation might be eliminated for some
time because it is unlikely that Congress could be persuaded to
consider additional animal legislation in the near future.”

The entire bill should be defeated, our humane group believes,since it
would not solve the problem of doing more than token before and after
care regulation. * 'A‘ - % -~~ <

The ”dOgnapper” part of the bill to license dealers is not bad.v But
we would rather see the whole bill defeated rather than see a ”lull
the public to sleep” type bill passed. - ~- ->'

We would rather have no law than a bad law with no teeth in it.

There would be a chance of getting a good law later, only if the bad
law does not pass now.

'We, therefore, urge defeat of H.R. l388l, even if amended.

Thereenwatoo many minorities and other groups who believe ”the end
jastifies the means”. - ‘ " I~ -

This philosophy lead to the throwing of Christians to the lions,.to
Hitler's gas chambers. Let’s keep this philosophy out of America.
In medical terms, it‘s too contagious.

A philOSOpher Herbert Spencer in his social statistics wrote:

”The behavior of men to the lower animals, and their behavior
‘"’to each other, bear a constant.relationship,” 4 , -

Sincerely,
OKLAHOMA:ANlMAb‘PiROTECT'lVE LEAGUE, lNC.
WM“

,, _ “Leslie Brooks, President
LEBzwit” ' ' * ' ‘ ' ‘

 




(Founded i n 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANT I-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

 

I i. SPECIAL BULLETIN JUNE 30, 1.966

 

Here is the opinion of The National Society for Medical
Research on the pending ”vivisection regulation” bill
in Congress.

It makes interesting reading.

Note the "criminal penalty" for vivisectors at the bottom on
Page 1. They would be told to "cease and desist" on a par-
ticular violation and if they didn’t, they would be told to
"cease and desist" again and again and again, and the chances
are they would have finished what they were doing before

they were told to step. What a ”criminal penalty" this is!

In the fourth paragraph under "comment, " the NSFMR sees
some potential awkwardness in administering the regulations
but points out they do NOT apply (humane care) when the
animals are in the actual process of research or experimen-
tation. And it adds that it ”seems quite probable" that such
regulations as are finally established "will be acceptable to
the scientific community. "

Which simply means the NSFMR believes nothing will be done
to interfere with the vivisectors. And you can be sure of that!

The sinister significance of this disclosure is in the fifth
paragraph. Read it carefully, please, and then recall what
the .NAVS has been warning its members against for years!

If vivisection is regulated, then the fight to abolish it will
be set back twenty years. Here it is in black and white, the
admission that what we have said is true:

"IF SUCH A BILL BECOMES LAW, THE THREAT OF
MUCH-MORE-RESTRICTIVE LEGISLATION MIGHT BE
ELIMINATED FOR SOME TIME TO COME." (How true!)

With such a law on the books, the viv isectors can plead to
the public: "Why there is no cruelty in the laboratories;
there is a law against it. " And the public will believe them.
This is the shameful thing regulationists have done!

Clarence E. Richard
Managing Director

 




. A . ' Editor: ROBERT RODALE
Ky “ ‘ . ‘ I I I 33 East Minor Street, Emmaus, Pa.
j g t ‘_ Phone: 965-9881/Area Code: 215

Weekly Coverage of the News in the Health Field

 

July 27, 1966

Mrs. Christine Stevens

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.O. BOX 3719

Georgetown Station

Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Mrs . Stevens:

Enclosed are two copies of Health Bulletin dated July 16 containing
the article ”Congress Votes Better Treatment for Lab Animals. .5...

We are very sorry for having sent you the wrong bulletins last week

and trust it did not cause you too great an inconvenience.

Again thanking you for your interest in Health Bulletin.

Sincerely,

Robert Bahr
Associate Editor

 




n‘oDALE's

-h€ ﬁlth-bullet 1 II 331...

ROBERT RODALE Editor J. I. RODALE Publisher John Haberern Executive Editor
Jack Matonis R. J. Petrilla Robert Bahr Associate Editors
Consulting Editor: Hans G. Keitel. M.D.

 

 

 

 

HEALTH BULLETIN SPECIAL REPORT ON PREDICTIVE MEDICINEJ

 

 

MEDICAL GUESSING GAME OFFERS NEW APPROACH TO PREVENTION OF DISEASE

Predictive medicine is an unfamiliar term to many physicians. References to it in the
medical literature have been so rare, in fact, that it is not even honored with a category of its
own in Index Medicus, the massive monthly index of medical publications put out by the govern—V
ment. Yet a small group of research physicians are nurturing the hope that predictive medicine
will prove to be the best solution to the. country's number one health problem—the rising death
rate from degenerative disease. I

Curative medicine, believe these medical philosophers, is a crude technique to use against
such sophisticated killers as cancer and heart disease. The success rate of traditional therapeutic
medicine is not high enough, they say, and even those who are "cured" of Cancer or heart trouble
are sometimes left crippled in body or spirit. Preventive methods are far better, but prevention
as it is currently used often ends up to be merely an effort to spot people in the population who
are suffering from the early, non-symptomatic stages of degenerative disease. Workers in pre—
dictive medicine are seeking methods that will enable them to identify presently healthy people who
will develop degenerative disease at some later time. Armed with that information, they hOpe to be
able to apply corrective measures before any sign of the disease appears. If successful, they will
be able to help the public achieve far more complete protection against disease than is possible today.

The physical examination of presumably healthy individuals is the chief tool of predictive
medicine specialists. But the type of examination being used is far more complex and differently
oriented than the usual one—hour going over in a doctor's office. In one program a battery of 50 to
60 tests is administered in two hours' time, using highly automated equipment. In addition to the
familiar diagnostic procedures, participants are checked for such qualities as resistance to pain,
Vital capacity (air volume of the lungs), and personality traits. They also are given a wide variety
of chemical tests. Although spotting disease is a major object of this "multiphasic screening,"
predictive medicine practitioners hope eventually to know enough about their art to be able to
computerize such test data and come forth with a biochemical profile of the subject that will reveal
far more about the degree of a person's health than doctors can now hope to know. If they are
successful, that profile will reveal a person's future disease pattern with considerable accuracy.

One of the first predictive medicine centers is now being set up in southern California for the
65,000 members of Retail Clerks Local 770. Beckman Instruments 00., a maker of automated
medical equipment, is developing and administering the project. According to Dr. Thomas Weber,
manager of Beckman's advanced research division, the union's predictive program is unlike any
before attempted. ”We look at a large population group and screen them for various characteristics-—
biochemical, physiological, behavioral, etc.,” he said not long ago. "At six—month intervals, we will
reexamine these people. If we see slight changes here and there in their biomedical tests it may
indicate illness. Then we will recommend remedial steps such as an exercise program or a change
in diet."

Dr. Weber envisions his project as a large scale health program, not just screening for
disease. By the end of this year, he hopes to be running 2,000 members of the Retail Clerks Union
through the test center each month, at a cost of $10.00 to $12.00 per series of tests. Cost of setting
up the program will be about $300,000.

Predictive medicine was introduced publicly to the medical community at a symposium
sponsored by the Instrument Society of America held on May 16 at Anaheim, California. Lead-off
speaker was Dr. Emanuel Cheraskin of the University of Alabama, a ploneer worker in the ﬁeld. He

 

 




showed how the health of the teeth and gums might be predicted and related by studies of an individual's
carbohydrate metabolism. Dr. Robert Roessler of Baylor University College of Medicine told of
studies underway which may enable physicians to predict a person's mental and physical reaction to
stress. Other speakers described the role of computers and other devices in the future development
of predictive medicine.

The National Institutes of Health is now giving ﬁnancial support to at least 50 medical
research projects whose findings may someday be useful for predictive purposes. One of the
most intriguing is a study by three western U. S. medical centers of the coronary—proneness of
a large group of men who have been studied since 1960-61. Doctors from each institution are
attempting to predict which men will get coronary disease, and each is using a different segment
of their medical records as the basis for their predictions. One is making its guesses based on
blood clotting data. Another is using information on cholesterol and related serum lipids. The
third is making its predictions from information obtained in personal interviews. An even more
extensive search for ”predictors" for use in estimating risk factors is being carried on by a large
Pennsylvania medical school. Another Pennsylvania study is following up the families of breast
cancer victims to see if that history of disease can be used to predict cancer occurrencein later
generations .

Authorities on preventive medicine contacted by Health Bulletin have indicated that predictive
medicine has a bright future if it develops ona foundation of sound scientific data. Thomas Francis,
J r., M. D. of the University of Michigan commented that ”The potential is enormous provided one
finds measures for developing a predictive capacity. How much potential is realized will depend
on work rather than on a philosophical contemplation.” He notes that while it is sometimes possible
to tell who is susceptible to a disease, you cannot predict who will actually succumb.

. "Predictive medicine is certainly new or relatively new in the field of preventive medicine,"
Health Bulletin was told by William L. Fleming, M. D., chairman of the Department of Preventive
Medicine of the School of Medicine of the University of North Carolina. He notes that it is a by—
product of the introduction of computers into medicine "and may well indicate something of an
advance."

NUTRITION EXPERTS CRITICIZE FDA VITAMIN RULES

Four physicians on the staffs of large hospitals or medical schools have written to the
Food and Drug Administration in opposition to that agency's order that food supplements carry
a disclaimer label. (Final date for objections to the order is July 18, and it is expected that
most of the objections from industry will be filed at the last minute.)

Here is the statement FDA wants to have used on food supplement containers and in adver—
tisements: "Vitamins and minerals are supplied in abundant amounts by the foods we eat. The
Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council recommends that dietary needs be
satisfied by foods. Except for persons with special medical needs, there is no scientific basis
for recommending routine use of dietary supplements.”

"The first sentence is a generalization which does not apply to individual cases," FDA was
told by Thomas H. Jukes, lecturer in nutrition at the University of California at Berkeley. "I do
not think that any professor of nutrition would give a passing grade to a student who made such a
statement," he went on to say. While Professor Jukes agreed with the recommendation in the
second sentence, he said that most people lack the knowledge to interpret it and make it meaning—
ful. In opposition to the last sentence, Professor Jukes said that "There is a strong scientific
basis for recommending routine use of dietary supplements to make sure that overt signs and
symptoms do not develop” in persons who have unrecognized "special medical needs."

Pediatrician George M. Owen of Ohio State University Children's Hospital said that the first
sentence of the label is erroneous in its present form. "It is mistakenly assumed that most pe0p1e
in this country receive a diet adequate in all respects simply because of (the) abundant food supply,”
he commented. Dr. Owen pointed out that many studies are now under way to determine the
nutritional status of various segments of the population. "It is discouraging to see the government
formulate regulations pertaining to matters for which the scientists have not yet provided definite
information," he concluded.

 

HEALTH BULLETIN is published weekly by Rodale Press, Inc., Emmaus, Pa. 18049. Subscription rates: 6
months, $5.00. One year $10.00. Second class postage paid at Emmaus, Pa., and at additional mailing
offices. Printed in the United States of America. Copyrighted 1966 by Rodale Press, Inc.

 

 

 

Rodale’s Health Bulletin—July I6, 1966

 




 

Dr. M. K. Horwitt of Elgin State Hospital, Elgin, Illinois, noted that farmers have been able
to achieve 20 per cent better growth of animals by using larger amounts of vitamins. ”Try and
take the assets of vitamin supplementation away from the farmer who raises small animals like pigs,
mink or chicks and watch the reaction! " he challenged FDA. Dr. Horwitt noted that human growth
statistics have correlated well with animal studies, and pointed out that humans may achieve
increased efficiency and resistance to disease as the result of vitamin supplementation, in addition
to better growth. , '

Dr. Floyd J. Filer, J r., professor of pediatrics at the University of Iowa Medical School,
also criticized the label statement but stressed other objections as well. He said that the regulations
"have little or no working relationship to the broad area of infant feeding." Noting that ”one cannot
legislate 'good' nutrition," he suggested that FDA revise its document "so that the complexities of
infant nutrition can be managed by the physician and all infants profit in a nutritional sense." In
support of that statement he stated his belief that FDA Was requiring too much calcium and phos-
phorus in infant formulas, and not enough iron. Dr. Filer said that the low iron content specified
by the regulations would force pediatricians to prescribe iron supplements for their patients
whether they wanted to or not...

BEER DEATHS MYSTERY BEGINS TO UNRAVEL

Canadian health authorities recently shed some light on 20 mysterious heart disease deaths
in the city of Quebec during the past eight months. A total of 48 persons—all heavy beer drinkers—
were stricken by degeneration of heart muscles (see Health Bulletin, May 7 , 1966 and April 9, 1966).
At a conference in May at Laval University, researchers named viral infection and beer additives
as possible co-factors in the deaths. Cobalt and papain are used to improve the quality and
appearance of the foam on beer. Both, according to the June 13 Journal of the American Medical
Association, are poisonous to the heart when taken in sufficient quantity. As found in the beer,
these additives are far below the toxic level. It is suggested, though, that several factors may
have worked together to make them harmful.

The researchers also reported that the victims had poor dietary habits, and evidenced
thiamine (vitamin B—l) deficiency. Quebec Health Department epidemiologist Dr. C.A. Foley said,
”These people all ate meals irregularly and some displayed signs of undernourishment." The 28
victims who survived responded slowly but definitely to thiamine therapy. Some abnormalities of
the heart muscles were found during autopsy to resemble those in beriberi. (Dr. Samuel Bellet ,
head of the Division of Cardiology at Philadelphia General Hospital, told Health Bulletin that beri—
beri heart is not rare among heavy beer drinkers. He said a thiamine deficiency can cause this
disease, and it results when a beer drinker neglects an adequate diet.) Dr. Jean L. Bonenfant, a
member of the investigating committee , commented after the conference , "All that can be said thus
far about the heart lesions seen in these patients is that they represent a primary metabolic nutri—
tional or toxic cardiomyopathy."

 

CONGRESS VOTES BETTER TREATMENT FOR LAB ANIMALS

The issue stirring most public interest in Congress this year has been the legislation
to regulate the welfare of animals used in laboratory experiments. According to the office of
Sen. Hugh Scott (R— Pa.), many congressmen report receiving more mail on this subject than
about the war in Viet Nam. About 80 bills have already been introduced to cover approval and
licensing of animal dealers, housing, feeding and care of animals, means of obtaining them, and
types of use to which they can be subjected in laboratories.

As a result of that public pressure, both the House and the Senate have passed legislation.
Although similar, the bills differ in some very controversial respects, and are expected to go to
a conference committee within a week. On April 28 the House passed H. R. 13881, a bill intro-
duced by W. R. Poage (D—Tex.). It requires all dealers in dogs and cats—not other animals—to
obtain federal licenses and to pay fees which will finance administration of this law. Research
laboratories must obtain licenses, but will not be subject to any further regulations. Dealers will
be required to conform to regulations establishing humane treatment of animals. The major
purpose of this bill is to prevent petnapping—labs will be required to buy animals only from
licensed dealers. .

The Senate version of H. R. 13881 requires laboratories, animal dealers and persons trans—
porting animals to care for and handle them humanely. Dogs and cats are covered in this bill,

Roda/6’s Health Bulletin—July 16, I966

 




but it provides that primates, rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs also come under the protectlon

of the Secretary of Agriculture. On the surface, the Senate bill appears the stronger measure.
However, Oliver Evans, president of the Humane Society of the United States, has attacked this ‘
legislation because ”the bill has been watered down to the vanishing point." He told Health Bullet1n
that "if the Senate bill goes on the books it will serve as a roadblock to any other legislation for a
long time to come.” ‘

The Senate bill will cover only about 2,000 of the 11,000 laboratories where animals are used
in the United States, and will protect only five million of the 100 to 300 million animals used in
research annually. Handling of animals during actual research projects is not controlled at all by
the bill—and it has been pointed out that research can technically begin the moment the animal
enters the research lab. ”If the laboratory provisions in the Senate bill were all that could be
obtained, then we should be thankful for getting them,” Evans said. . ”But we believe that Congress
is in the mood to enact a somewhat more comprehensive bill that will do more for animal protection.
We are optimistic that this can be done."

The National Society of Medical Research, which represents the medical research community,
has gone on record as opposing any legislation whatsoever in the realm of animal or dealer control.
Recently, it has modified this position. It still opposes laboratory regulation, but says of the
present Senate bill, "If such a- bill becomes law, the threat of much-more-restrictive legislation
might be eliminated for some time because it is unlikely that Congress could be persuaded to
consider additional animal legislation in the near future." ’

SENATOR CALLS FOR ABSOLUTE BAN ON DDT

A bill to ban the manufacture of DDT for any use in this country was presented to Congress
this week. Following up a letter he sent to the U. S. Department of Agriculture several weeks
ago (see Health Bulletin, June 25), Sen. Gaylord Nelson (D—Wis.) introduced S. 3608, designed
"to prohibit the sale or shipment for use in the United States of the chemical compound known
as D.D. T." In an introductory speech on the Senate ﬂoor, Sen. Nelson pointed out that although
DDT has been sold commercially for fewer than 25 years, it has polluted the environment on a
worldwide basis. "In only one generation it has contaminated the atmosphere, the sea, lakes and
streams, and infiltrated the fatty tissue of most of the world's creatures."

"The potential is present for a national calamity," Sen. Nelson went on to say, because DDT
remains at toxic levels in soil, water, air and living plants and animals for many years after it
is applied. Even if use of the compound were discontinued now, DDT would persist as a trouble—
some residue in our environment for years to come. Nelson noted that banning DDT is consistent
with the recommendations of two Presidential panels who have reported in the last three years. In
1963, the Wiesner Committee noted, ”Elimination of the use of persistent toxic insecticides should
be the goal.” Last November, the Environmental Pollution Panel of the President's Science
Advisory Committee called for a halt to the use of broad—spectrum pesticides.

Biological magnification is one feature of DDT that helps make it so harmful, believes Sen.
Nelson. That is the ability of organisms to absorb the chemical in amounts that greatly exceed
those in their surroundings. Since humans are the final link in the food chain, it is possible that \GE PAID ’
human fatty tissue will suffer the highest levels of deposited DDT. , AND AT

Sen. Nelson supported his bill further by pointing to a statement made last year by Assistant OFFICES
Surgeon General Robert J. Anderson, who noted that small dosages of DDT in test animals have
produced significant cellularchanges in the liver. "In man this presumably could cause serious
consequences to individuals already burdened by disease," Anderson said. The U. S. Department
of Interior has often told Congress of its concern over the way pesticide residues turn up in
unlikely places. Animals in Antarctica and the Far East show DDT residues in their fatty tissues,
although both areas are far removed from spray programs. In light of all that evidence against DDT,
Sen. Nelson said he was surprised to find recently that the U. S. Department of Agriculture still
recommends DDT for widespread commercial use (see Health Bulletin, June 25). ‘

”There probably are hundreds of registered pesticides that should not be used. This is an
area that I intend to follow up later," Sen. Nelson said, concluding his Speech to the Senate. "But
DDT should be singled out for special consideration because it is so harmful that it is in a class
by itself." Legislative Assistant Roger Blobaum told Health Bulletin that Nelson is in an especially
good position to support the DDT bill, because he has been identified with agricultural interests
since his days as Governor of Wisconsin.

 

Roda/6’s Health Bulletin—July 16, I966

 




BEARING ' EVIDENCEm-Members off the?!
National Catholic Society picket the White
House with simulated packing crate of be stopped by a proposed bill.

‘Whtte House Pwkets ASSail Bills

0n Treatment of Lab Animals

«1%
More than 80 animal lovers

marched in front o?the White vive the rough handling re~ ’
House yesterday to protest ceive-d in public {auctions and times sell for as little as ten

leg at the-"hands of dealers, said
{islation dealing'with the han- David J. Lobel of Glen Mills,
idling of'animals used in scien- Pa.,
vanians for Humane Action
and one of PETNAP'S leaders.
“Those 'most

House and Senate earlier this keeping the status quo have
won,” he said

écongressionally-approved

i

gtific research.
1; The pickets claimed that
bills passed by both the

year—~due to go to conference
this week—favor animal deal
crs and laboratories rather
ithan provide humane treat
iment of animals Neither ver-
sion offers safeguards against
, stealing pets, they said.

The group. called the dem-
onstration PETNAPS~Protest
to Expose the Treachery in
the New Animal Procurement
Statute. Picket signs called
for President Johnson to veto
any law to emerge from the
conference, stating that “bad
legislation is worse than

 

Only half the animals sur-

chairman of Pennsyl-

interested in

One strong bill animal lev-
ers favored, ~.—~ imposing tight.
controls over facilities, protec-

bei added.

sponsored by Rep. William R.
Posse (~Tex.), will

31 Steve Bimbo. Stair Photosrapher

stuffed antinalsand a" paredy of an adver-
tisement for auctions they argue will not

tion against thefts and crim-i-f
nal actions against violators-a
caused a flood of 30,000 let-j
ters and telegrams to descend ‘
on Congress in one week, Lo~

The 11111 finally acted upon;

“legalize
auction by body weight)? said-

 

 

Other PETNAPS organizer.
Puppies and kittens some-

 

cents apiece, Miss Jones said,
and are “treated accordingly
like something of little value.”
Marchers fcarried wooden

 

demonstrate
conditions

mals to
crowded

shipping. 3»

 

 

Helen E. Jones, preSident of.

the National Catholic Society-

 

 

 

 

none.”

for Animal Welfare and any

lBill, ”
.numbers of animals and pets from

 

crates filled with stuffed anim

the;E }
under-1‘
which. animals are packed for “

WiLUAMSTOWN, N. 1
PLAIN DEALER ..
W. 2.700

V} 7x
APR 2 .9. 1955
.‘___' ......
EGARDING srnAY ANIMALS i

Dear Editor: ’ ‘

the interest of animal lovers
f the community and, indeed the
Nation, please publish this letter of
interesg ﬁg; the subject of cruelty

e a e Society of the Uni-
ted States and the Animal Welfare
Assn. of Camden County, Inc., ad-f
vocates enactment by Congress H. V
R. 4856, a bill introduced by Rep.
William J. Randall of Missouri,

popularly known as the “Randall
designed to protect the vast

'glglelty ajnd suﬂering inﬂicted on
em n research laborat i
throughout the country. or es
If you have a pet and have true
humane feelings for their welfare,
you will, as I am, he nauseated to
Ilingiw tire fatcts about what is hap-;
e mg 0 s ra ts ick
the streets. y pe p ed up on
For the true facts on Why on?
should urge your Congressman grid
Senator to enact the “Randall Bill, ”
write: Animal Welfare Assn. of
Camden County, Inc., P. O. Box 35,
Collingswood, N. 3
If you know

pets that are -'
mi Strea ted and being

want to do some-
itilliing about it, 1" will do everything

my power to correct th -'
tion, NA 9-7163. e mug '

 

_ AARON FRAZIER
‘ Washington Ave. and Black H. P113.

 

 




"*Now you CAN READILY UNDERSTAND WHY'wE ’
ARE FORGING-AHEAD, STEP BY STEP, IN
THE RIGHT DIRECTION.-

WE MUST NEVER.STAND STILL” my MUST CONTINUE

TO FIGHT FOR ALL LEGISLATORS' HELP, IN
BEHALF OF THE? "POOR LITTLE? SPEECHESS

CR§ATURES. SO—umhiT'S CARRY ON, REGARDLESS

OF HANyggANDICAPS. <:\>
/ £42" 7‘ 

; ;; 7‘ \g - ,1) .

x b. :2
‘ l:
2 1‘8 "‘3'
“ £ 5 ‘ ,J " I! ‘1‘
, ‘ ' ‘1 ...»‘
‘4 v , 17 d—w
v , v, > . b"
; IF";
'\ {S f», ‘
'r .'
a 1? g 21$” '
.t by} a: KM
,'. ., "If
v ‘ f 'k
~.
I“ t

t

g .m- ‘1 V
\ , ‘
g?“ é» %

a, a“; «4‘

M

 

 




ANIMAL ALLIES, INC.
4421 DENSMORE AVENUE

ENCINO, CALIFORNIA

 

TO PROVIDE THAT ALL CRUELTIES, PAIN, AND SUFFERING INFLICTED
ON ANIMALS IN RESEARCH AND EXPERIMENTAL LABORATORIES, UNDER
U.S. GRANTS, BE ERADICATED.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled.

Sec. 1. That it is declared to be the policy of the
United States that animals used in experiments, tests, the
teaching of scientific methods and techniques, and the pro-
duction of medical and pharmaceutical materials, shall be
spared all pain, stress, discomfort, and fear.

Sec. 2. As used in this Act, the following terms
shall have the meanings here set forth:

(a) "Animal" shall mean any living creature of
any species having a central nervous system;

(b) "Stress" shall mean the effect of any condition
of housing, diet, climate, confinement, care, use or experi-
mental procedure, unsuitable to the species or the particular
animal, or differing from its ordinary and normal mode of
life to a degree that produces physical deterioration in
any respect, or any markedly typical conduct or reaction,
which, if prolonged, would have a tendency to produce either
of the above aberrations from normal condition or reaction;

(c) "Pain" shall mean any sensation which, if felt
by a human being, a competent and conscientious physician would
ordinarily take steps to relieve;

(d) "Person" shall mean an individual person, or
any agency or government, school, institution, organization,
group, corporation, or partnership.

Sec. 3. Every laboratory holding a certificate of
compliance, and every agency or instrumentality of the United
States that uses animals in research, experiments, tests,
training in scientific procedures or technique, or the pro-
duction of materials, shall comply with the following
requirements:

 




DISMAL SIGHT. Some of the 103 aclutter ofsheds, lumber andjunked FROZEN DOG.
dogs on the raided property stand cars. In foreground are frozen en-
chained to wooden boxes. The yard is trails, the usual ration for the dogs.

In the raid on
Brown’s compound the police found /
this female dog frozen inside a box.

TO ALL CONGRESSMEN AND SENATORS

HOW CAN WE CALL OURSELVES A LEADER OF ALL NATIONS IN
DECENCY} MERCY AND JUSTICE, WHEN WE PERMIT THESE
ATROCITIES TO EXIST? IF VIVISECTION WAS ABOLISHED,
THERE WOULD BE NO CRUELTIES.

 

THE UNITED STATES LEADS IN ANIMAL CRUELTY, AND UNLESS
WE ERADICATE ALL THE APPALLING CONDITIONS EXISTING IN
OUR COUNTRY, THE WRATH OF GOD WILL INDEED VISIT US.

THERE CAN BE NO PEACE ON EARTH, AND OUR UNITED STATES
WILL CONTINUE TO BE SMITTEN WITH DISASTER AND TURMOIL
UNTIL THE VIOLENCE INFLICTED UPON SPEECHLESS CREATURES
IS WIPED OUT.

 

ACTS OF KINDNESS WILL RIGHT THE WRONG DONE TO ANIMALS.

HELP STOP THE GROWTH OF THIS FOUL-SMELLING CANCER IN
OUR M IDST .

— u. — _ a. — no I. a- - n. u - - — II- — o. - no - u- - 1

Even tho' the enclosed bill is not a total abolition bﬁli,

it will at least relieve much pain and suffering from the
helpless and defenseless creatures who cannot Speak foﬁ
themselves, and who plead with us to release them from:
the slavery to which they are exposed.

I THEREFORE RESPECTFULLY REQUEST THAT YOU INTRODUCE
THIS BILL IN CONGRESS, AND THAT ALL CONGRESSNEN AND
SENATORS VOTE FAVORABLY ON IT, WITHOUT CONSTANT

,CONTINUED DELAYS.

THIS WILL INCUR THE BLESSINGS OF GOD, RATHER THAN HIS
WRATH, WHICH WE ALL KNOW IS BEGINNING.

THANKING you IN ADVANCE FOR yous IMMEDIATE KIND ACTION,

auéé:/.ZB«§>7Q’GEE ,'

SALLY B. MOODY, PrasidantK/I
ANIMAL ALLIES, INC.

4421 Densmore Ave.

Encino, California 91316

(Please do not think me imperious, but God created
animals to test the heart of man).

Quote Rev. B. M. Hunter, D.D.: "May God let the race of
mankind die rather than to commit'such awful crimes of
cruelty---such horrible sins in the name of science."

 




' "‘¥"é~ 4-... ' .
”NW me,” u
"-"4‘. .1

"BEFORE THE BAR OF HUMAN JUSTICE,
VIVISECTION STANDS CONDENNED ON THREE

MAIN COUNTS: CRUE'LTY TO ANIMAIS, USELESS—

NEss To MAN, AND OHSTRUCTION ON THE PATH
or HEAL KbOWL“DGE.'

I -‘ ”Wed-www-

. "“7“.

M. Beddow Bayl: , M.R.C.S.

Let's face itt Cruelty is cruelty,

is offensive to God. Cruelty means
"inhumanity, savageness, disposed to u
give pain to others, whether man or beast.
We, who pose as a leader of all other

countries in decency, mere and justice,
should prove that we do no condone the

worse cruelty of all——#VIVISECTION.

 

 

 

 

JESUS CONDEMNETH Teg_;;;:TgE§THENT or
KNIMKES”" “””"”’” "*"“

“Verily I say unto you, they who partake
of benefits which are gotten by wronging

one of God's creatures, cannot be
righteous.

 

 

Wherefore I say unto you.

. FEEBLE COLLIE. TOO weak to crawl CHAINED PUPPY Skm and bones
I I. , . y - , . _‘ I .I. _ ' ' " t - y ‘ ‘ ' ‘ “ ' a .-«.-=. to the frozen entrails scattered in Mr. and not much else is all‘tha't' is left
> * I 'I . ' ‘ V . - ' ‘ . i ' " . ‘ “ - ' Brown’s yard, this collie was not res- of this young beagle, staked out in
BE YE KIND ONE TO ANOTHER, AND i _ . I -, . I ., - I. I' , . . , I'- - . I . cued. The humane socrety could ﬁt Brown's yard. Beagles are. rated by
To ALL THE CWw- . , , v, I , Q 1 ~ 1 , . A _ w , .. , I

only 28 of the worst cases in its truck. most (1

0g dealers as a “hot item.”

DEFIANT DEALER. Aroused by
early-morning raid on his alnimal
compound at White Hall, Md., Lester
Brown confronts Frank McMahon,
who represented the Humane Society.

NEW ARRIVAL. This woebegone
springer spaniel was one of only a
handful of dogs in Brown’s inventory
of over 100 animals,that appeared to
be ﬁt. Obviously he hadjust got there.

 

-’r'r~’»"m.l;//errrtr .wwm n.

CRAMMED CRATES. In a shed be-
hind Brown’s house, dogs, pigeons
and other creatures werejammed into
ﬁlthy coops. The only food in sight
was the stale bread piled in a washtub.

 

 

 

 




t

Dear Memberé

Am enclosing clipping which I have sent to every 1435 Congressmen and 100
Senators of Washington. Fortunately, I have received quite a number of
replies, and some have promised their help in our humane endeavors.

As you doubtless know, I am dOing everything possible to continue my fight

for decency, mercy and justice in behalf of the poor little helpless and defense-
less creatures of God.

I feel we are bit by bit succeeding in our endeavors, but WE MUST NOT STAND
STILL. The only way to eradicate all the horrors now existing, is to hit all
Washington legislators with our literature, letters, bills to abolish vivisection,

so that they will eventually wake up and see the difference between right and
wrong.

We are constantly bogged down with horrifying conditions....pitiful little
sentient creatures are dumped everywhere by wicked, cruel humans, and I, of
course, try desperately to find good homes for them.

However, if and when I must put some of them to sleep, it hurts me much
more than it does the animal. Of course, once they are in God’s hands, they
will never suffer.. . .

As you doubtless know, we spay every female and neuter every male, so that
multiplication of animals will cease to exist-«so that many will not be tortured
in vivisection laboratories, or abused, abandoned and starved to death...

Please read my missive attached to the clipping. Some of the Congressmen
and Senators have stated in part: “I have always opposed the inhumane treat~

ment of laboratory animals, and I will certainly support the best bill on
thiSoo."

Dear Member: I will appreciate your kind help by contributing to our cause:
Our society receives no salaries, no vacations, and every penny contributed to
ANIMAL ALLIES, INC. is spent for the little four~footed darlings.....

 

Incidentally, as you doubtless know, an ordinance has been enacted in Los
Angeles, which states in part: "Any person having control, care, custody of
any female dog or cat, must strictly confine them in a building, home, or other
enclosure while they are in heat or season. If they are permitted to roam at
large and become pregnant, they will be fined $500.00, or six months in jail,
or bOthcu'oooo

Yet, there are now thousands upon thousands of kittens and puppies brought
to the pounds to be killed....and, free ads in all newspapers.

I therefore respectfully request that all members write a‘wnote to their
Councilman, demanding that this ordinance be enforced...

Hepe to hear from you real soon, and thank you for your kind help.

923mm ,
£3.2/V 3 .WWW '
Sally B. ”oody, President

ANIMAL ALLIES, INC.

141121 Densmore Ave.
Encino , California

 




PET PRIDE PILOT

A NEWSLETTER FOR PET PRIDE MEMBERS ., j
MAILBU, CALIF. Q:>-~’r 5;;
/ ’

A' {VD‘QV/ ‘ "A’

The HSUS-sponsored Randall and Pepper
'Bills spell out in precise language
the following safeguards for animals
used in medical research:

All research projects must use the
fewest number of animals possible,
and animals must never be used
when a substitute method is avail-
able. 1

Animals used in painful CXperi-‘
ments must be fully and expertly
anesthetized, excepting when it can
be fully demonstrated that the use
of anesthesia would interfere with
the experiment.

No unanesthetized animal shall be
burned, scalded or subjected to ma-
jor surgery or any similarly acutely
painful procedure.

All animals that would suffer pro-

longed pain or stress as a result of
an experiment shall be painlessly

killed immediately after the experi-
ment is completed, whether or not
the objective of the experiment has
been attained.

Animals suffering pain after an
experiment must be given pain-
relieving care equal to that cus-
tomarily given to human patients
before, during and after similar
procedures.

All animals used in medical experi-

ments must be kept in clean, com-

fortable quarters and given good

food and water and adequate ex-

ercise.
The actual wording of the Randall and
Pepper Bills is far more precise than
this, and a copy will be sent to any-
one, upon request. *
The greatest difference, however, be“
tween the Randall and Pepper hills and
the other eight entries is their air—
tight enforcement provisions? These
two HRUS-sponsored bills insist on
supervision and enforcement of all the
humane provisions by an eSpeciallv
created agency of the Department of
Justice, and applicants would be subject
to the penalties of perjury and fraud if
false statements were submitted in ob-
taining Federal funds. 63

 

 




Niagara Falls Ga29ttei

”EINIAGARA‘ FALLS, N.- Y.
\th D. 34,837 SUN. 31709

N . 9N .. ,1.
MAR 13 1959 934%

--r1 ._1;~:—,.~..‘~.—,-:_~,._ -. v.
'1 ".‘i‘! . N" {PW}

4 1.,«1‘

:9. Mia InvIIh Walden-h In 61:-
L‘ﬁréWIheIr. bpii'ﬂéﬁs on 11161;:
ﬁéwof buhlltwlnterest AII
, letters Nat-a sﬁﬁlﬁt I6N edIIN
Ihgnand corldenséﬂoh. Sig? :-
matures 1110519136 submitted-.1

1 Thanks for Leila Genove 'si
Nietteru‘t agreeﬂ‘hn the? 1111
necessaryg 91119119,; dZ-‘E. td‘r-f
hare tnflicted 011 animal in”
the 1151111901 reseMny?‘
19111111119 1111919101911 111 9rat
‘ed 111;: cramped crates; 191t
in the hold withoutN toad of“
iwater en route to laborer
toneé. ”Very little hasN f9ver.
1119911 1galned by using ant
1 1111119 1399911189; they canhbt-
talk to ﬂéféndmth‘ehﬁélves

1‘99 humans wodld; why-l.
should this inhumanéwtreat -

9,9191% hex 9111mm s .

1‘ NNL-We 111199191 9:111 *311 Ivtv‘IsecNié‘v-P

. . r. p ‘d,gSpwnpleaSe

‘ "I? 111' 091191"

113919 11131“ 111111.,1’1'3' 718 get
1- ,2‘1‘ F1 v.12.- ., , sLe

ﬁx “.9.
‘v. A“

 

nahd-

 

 

Atlanltr (11111; $111511
ATLANTlC CITY, N. J.
a. 59,529 iSUN. 41,130

MAI? "1113 1965 W

1, ‘ 'Mistreated

'- Edﬁoi. an...”

t ear over 175 million
led tinder their tor--
ands through being.

mne or' ==
* burnt alive, soalded to death, f
'1 crushed to death in steel press- :1
es and "starved to death ' -

I cant recall wading or»;

9 hearing or My. good that ﬁns .5”

N has been to the humén race, in

fact, it has retarded medical I
. ‘progress ‘ .‘j

The men who steal these;

ahlmsl‘s for the eXperlments

shotlld be punished as ‘well as

. the tormentors (If the animals.

I urge sup art for Rep. Wil-

Iliam Randal ’3 Bill HR 4856
j which will certain-l try to help :
"and protect 111111119 9:31:19 havg a

half a chance to lure.
DOROTHY LYNCH 1'

W

 




Newark ﬁmnhag News
M _. gNEWARK,N.J.
3 r" _SUN. 417,195

V ‘ ‘ \
~ ~

.‘ 133:2.“ I.

: ‘ ﬁn '

 

""5—‘< ,
‘92:“- —‘- .I‘: a

:‘w‘

#3,; : “1'2.
.n' 1 .

' . u“ .'! ""j)»i-;(&‘ It; »
I ‘ ‘ I ' r

3" I’m
“ﬁg. .3‘:"—7;‘.f"2§’~3,“j. .' "
'1, ‘,. -. = ‘1‘. w ,- -

r,

 




A VIVISECTION INVESTIGATION
LEAGUE PUBLICATION

 




     

     
  
 
 
  
     
   
  
 
       
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
     
     

$101003»)
§§§ﬁ\ ....xnfzéﬁ. L..\.....\..
... .

. .l.41k.| .0... 1&6? ....01 (.00.... £1

.. .m-mw. 0.”... $‘iﬁN9— I.1MW¥1U00¢ .4) 1.04.0..1...w.t...10.¢.

.. v0.30: .... ...... 9%.... M1. ﬂu... KW»... ... .. MS...»
0: 1.0.0.0 4.... 0.... n... .0.... 0.9.3....

4.th 0.»

         
 

4.14000

.1. x :1 14/1. Ill 0\ 0V"
0. ($.m703ﬂ..0.1.41r04 r9001”! W01} $080....

...... 20ka:. 0» .. ......00.
ll”. $001300»: 0 .0. Hy:‘.a.kn..!031¢.mb “.0 .J.‘
. 00 t. 004W ..m...1«\.v.4. .0 rm“: 1! In...
......imw. .. 001K. «1.... .. m #11». 01130..” ..

.....H.....o,.....k .6011. .. .03.“. ..c... ... ...00...r......w5. 5.0%.... , ...
0 . 01110,..5‘NV4 0 . 10*... . uhlu01..n.l
. ..H.....1.W...,. mi...“ 1...}... . .0... . ...... HW\.,. -.1... a . marry. . . ..
0 . 0 ..0 .1 ﬁﬁhwifrh J1” . . «.... ... ...... 11.11%. . . .
.. .3. . ... rmuwm... . «JV. «801.17-. .....1. 4...»... 304% .
.... r .0 .4 Hum» 54mm! . ...0ﬁ.\9m.... . . .. h
4.........W...0... $0M.” i Wt QM“ 8.0!!“ MM“: u . .. .0
.0. . in...“ ....W. v0 . 0&9... 900.0... 0.. .
1.1%.}...010013102mpﬂ21 um“... ...... ...mud. .
. 03.0.03“. N411: 1.01.5... .1 .l 1‘4. 0 0. 9014.033.
W. .... .1000 mm. ...... .0.... . .0....” ...M...
m; .00.... “...... g...“ w ......
. .1 \. ....5. .51“. 1.00.0100 “crib“! A. .05 . .... "WI...“ .~§&0..k 00.. 00; 1 .
.151...4 01. 0.. ....mf...0u.1.... . ... .. . . ...
..0.H10.......4 ”ﬂ ..0... . .. .. . 0... .
. ....0 Wm? ... .0 . . 90...... 0....
%...0( £3.13 110“! It .

......3... ...... ...... ...... ......

     

  
 

  

 

     
 
  
 
  
 

 

  

 
        

.....0.
3.4.4415
.M10100 4.3....

...... A. I _ 01.0914 013011.000 \.
1...... 1w... ...... NMN ...... . .1...
£0.25}: I - «Us. .10 ”4.09.050... ....Wn. ..L 92.00%.

$10.9. 1.1.04h...0.¢ kg“. 1......

.10.... 01.5,. .0 0.1.x.-. H10... m. 10......» ..0.
"0‘01...“‘10’0NW? P... «0.0... $1.00.“... ..th 81$}«~1 4%ﬁ .
......W ...: ...»... m. M 3.. -90...." -. ;
.1w.....1.1 30’ Kw... ”Kﬁ.‘ ... £7.59...» ..n..\0.
‘0“ ﬁgldsd 004.4 ﬁlWQt CW.“ WNW.“
.....(._. ......1 . ......w... .13qu
...! 54hr“...- “J; .14.... Ludwmbhnov 4.01.... . .
......1...d..0-. .0.-. 3.an0. ...».va ...... v...» ..ﬁdndr. .90....

...»...uf .
PH

2
M
i!

     
    

   
   
  
   
   
      
   

....(Wc.

    

 

  

.o.m mmméwm .mmmeSoEmn wm

U<HEHZ>AO QZOUm—m min. 20mm!

2.5:...m

SE 8.53 mg 332%. 20.115353 2%

  

85:18 SEES E 90 1.8211... SEQ 1.31:3

me: 41:34 8 meo 43.4 c 19 3.324 c 2....

 

 

). . 1
1."

6.
mg 0.

"i
..1

   
 
       
 

43“...”

... 10.

...... .....Ms...
mug»...

  

H... ......»r! 0.4.0...
......0. . 9.0.an «WW... .....0

     
         
          

...». -

    

....
... ... .

.u. 210.... ......01.

{5.12.04 ...... ...




A} .-
o. i
4b
3
i

r
ib'
1n r
ti»
{'1 .__ . .
. g I :3_. i I i. 7“ j,. I . ' . :. ‘ 1‘
.‘:-.V4 '4" I” 1‘ ,I d ' g’)‘: _ _ ‘S' ‘ -.,‘ ‘ . .. ,'. ‘ u ‘ . _.. P. 1'“ -. g. '
"r ,.- “ ,-,...'f,' . ..‘.\ 1.. t _ . 3“ ..-. l' ..‘ . _,'I . ; Inn ix“, ,1 . A. .
:‘v , - ~. - ~. - W" I 3;. .4’_-' 0'7" 1'1““ ' .w °“ 4' ‘r' ' -" A“ u "‘ "x '- "-
.~ _. ,w . _ .. -, . , -., ' ,' ~,-..-. ~_. -.
' ‘ '.-"«‘L ."-|\""«‘. “‘. J".."Il «,5. .‘ o:.' .. .p 4 I :3.‘ p u. . 0 §,!_ “' ‘.'. ' . '
‘ .o

1: ‘
’ .‘5

an.

. n 2..
.s. . , .
" 3""
- ‘ _:
.‘I‘ . . .
4" J.
7. " i"
—. .
_.‘ R7;
v "-
n 1- ‘
I ‘.
v. .I.’
-1 '
:»~" .
, .
,9.‘ s; .
l». .
"D":
‘u‘ 7".
Phil E
.~ 7 .
r. ”\"I‘
. .‘ ,.
. "x
v : -' ‘
. I“.
:-
\'. ..
‘ W"
m--
_ -. \\-'
= ‘59" ..
t...”
'- .n
. .1
. 3' ,
' I": _)v
'tl _»
f.
3
’9L.”
.J, . ..
t. ,.
,. .'.
clv
337th w-
.21.} _' .
‘7

V
I
Q
“it! v 4‘

:61. c
and;
‘ ~ r:

I

,l
,2
a

_, i;

{I

3?
OH

ﬁver;

 

jhere is an old Chaplin ﬁlm where the little tramp,
arriving late at the theater, steps on the toes of a
whole row of people as he makes his way to his seat
at the far end. The gravity of his expression of regret
is matched only by his humiliation as he discovers that
he is in the wrong row. Sadly, he makes his way back
again then stumbles through the next row to his
proper place. And all the while he punctuates his toe-
mashing progress with his profuse protestations of sor- .
rowful dismay.

Thus Chaplin ridicules the social ﬁction that so long
as you apologize for it you can do anything to anyone.
That same bland thinking underlies the various apolo-
gias to vivisection now haunting the halls of Congress
in the guise of regulatory legislation.

How much in these bills may be true concern for
suffering and how much contrived cover-up, can only
be conjectured. Not that we impugn the sincerity of
their legislative sponsors. We just ﬁnd it hard to believe
that anyone can seriously propose the diminution of
pain as sufﬁcient compensation for the brutal desecra—
tion of animal life.

However that may be, one thing is clear: Not one
of these bills would rid us of vivisection. On the con-
trary, all would perpetuate it in the name of controlling
its abuses.

SANCTIONING THE EVIL

Paranoic fantasy? Perhaps. Yet consider this curi-
ously revealing fact. For the very ﬁrst time in our
history, each of these bills carefully incorporates a
paragraph or two oﬁﬁcially sanctioning the vicious
practice they purport to regulate.

Now comes the legerdemain of the illusory remedy.
“You have sinned,” the pain-regulators do indeed
intone. Then, with' the smooth misdirection of the
stage magician, they divert our attention from the
act of vivisection—pointing the ﬁnger of guilt to the
needlessly inﬂicted pain.

“Sin no more,” they sternly add. “Purify your kill
henceforth with the benevolent needle of anaesthesia.”

Even here these bills add a typically weaseling
touch. For their strictures on pain have been hedged
about with the carefully inserted adjective: “avoid-
able”.

Yet this we are solemnly offered in the name of
animal welfare. We can picture the last touching scene
as the experimental animal, strapped to the operating
table, gratefully licks the hand of his “benefactor”.

Enough of this vile nonsense! The evil of vivisection
lies in its utter disregard for life—not in this or that
speciﬁc abuse.

 




 

Certainly, vivisectors have added the torture of
excruciating pain to the heavy burden their victims
must bear. But it is the height of ignorance or of
hypocrisy to offer pain relief as an act of benevolence
to those poor creatures whose death by dismember-
ment or induced disease we have already sanctioned.

Of course, the kind of maggoty logic peculiar to
these bills does hold an obvious appeal for the vivi-
sector himself. For once he goes through the ritual of
absolution with a hollow “mea culpa,” he can proceed
as usual with the whole bloody business—this time
unencumbered by ethical qualms.

We would prefer simply to ignore the contemptible
farce of “regulated inhumanity.” Unfortunately, more
is involved here than an exercise in apologetics.

Consider: This plethora of proposed legislation (6
bills now before Congress) reﬂects a growing concern
with the acknowledged evils of vivisection. Thus, if a
cold cynicism is implicit in their evasions, so too is a
kind of idealism, however mistaken and misplaced.

A PARADOX

Paradoxically, this very idealism poses a perplexing
problem. If we are to grapple with this problem suc-
cessfully, two tough facts require recognition at the
outset.

1. The irony of the situation is that the smooth
plausibility of this “crusade against pain” permits the
charge of inhumanity to be turned against us. “What!
Are you not in favor of alleviating pain?” our humani-
tarian friends ask us aghast.

2. The tragedy of it is that these bills have split the
ranks of those who would otherwise join together in
common struggle.

Surely, we cannot dismiss out of hand those good
people who sense that something is wrong, that some-
thing needs be done to correct an intolerable situation.
Neither can we allow the slightest taint of equivocation
to weaken our principled opposition to the fraud of
regulation for fear of alienating these potential allies.

What then remains? We must reason with them
patiently.

That is precisely our purpose here. To show (1)
that they have accepted, without full. awareness of its
meaning, a proposal which threatens to corrupt the
moral foundation upon which our ﬁght is based; and
(2) that the remedy pr0posed in the name of hu—
manity, operates in fact to destroy those it is intended
to protect.

 




Let us return to our friendly inquisitors. They still
want to know—are we or are we not opposed to the
needless inﬂiction of pain?

If that were the only consideration, we could simply
say “yes,” and end the matter there. For we know
that laboratory animals are indeed exposed to unneces-
sary suffering. And of course it is desirable that their
pain be alleviated.

But justice in this case is not an absolute. For an-
other question intrudes itself. Is regulation of pain a
morally desirable end when the price we must pay for
it is to foster the greater crime of murder?

THE REAL PROBLEM: LIFE ITSELF

“We recognize that your support for regulation
arises out of a deep regard for animal welfare,” we
must tell our idealisticfriends. “Still and all, good
intentions are not enough. There is a looseness about
your reasoning that makes it hazardous to the end
you would gain.

“For you would correct the cruelties of vivisection
by reforming its procedures. But the real defect is
impervious to remedial legislation. It is rooted in the
very concept that the non—human animal can be ruth—
lessly tortured for the presumed beneﬁt of the human
animal. And the life thus taken cannot be restored by
your proposed regulations.

“Thus the tragic futility of your remedy: Its
achievement ends in a tally of the dead. To speak of
‘mercy’ in this context is to cheapen and degrade the
meaning of the term.”

The mortal error of these men is that they confuse
the crime with its by—product. As though the taking
of life can be condoned so long as we do it gently.
The point will become clearer if we translate it into
human terms.

Civilization begins with the recognition that life is
sacred. To preserve life is good; to destroy it evil.

That murder is the ultimate crime ﬂows from this
concept. True, we allow for circumstances that miti-
gate the gravity of this act. But nowhere has a com-
munity accepted as full or partial mitigation a murder
perpetrated gently. Nowhere do men crusade for legis-
lation that would legalize painless assassination.

Yes, pain will be endured when balanced against
life. Before the discovery of anaesthetics the terrible
pain of surgery was suffered as the necessary price
for maintaining life. But what price painless death?

In short, to deplore the means of taking life becomes
mockery when we sanction the deed itself. That is less
to mend things than to run away from them.

We are reminded of two friends who once were
vegetarians not on dietetic grounds but in protest
against the painful butchery commonly practiced.
Now that New York State has enacted its purportedly
humane butchery law, they have reverted to their
former dietary habits.

 




 

The logic of this escapes us. Again, let us pursue the
argument in human terms. Shall cannibalism be de-
plored only when the victim has been bludgeoned to
death? Does the enjoyment of a once human steak
become morally defensible so long as the donor of
your supper is mercifully and quietly despatched?

Have we become infected with the moral myopia of
a Himmler who could ordain the gas chambers because
shooting was “too brutal?” Would the human vivi—
sections of the Nazi concentration camp doctors be
acceptable if only they had regulated the pain? Does
the immorality of nuclear war lie merely in the pain-
fully lingering death of radiation and not at all in the
instant incineration of hundreds of millions of innocent
men, women and children?

No! We cannot accept a welfare crusade whose ban-
ners proclaim: “Do to these animals what you will.
But please regulate the pain so that we need not hear
their whimpering.”

ENTER THE REALISTS

“Granted,” say our humanitarian friends. “The
major crime is the act of Vivisection itself. But so long
as it exists, should we not accept the alleviation of
pain as a worthwhile compromise?”

At this point the idealist is joined by the “realist”
who agrees fully with every noble principle while he
straightaway abandons it on the altar of compromise.
He combines the pleasures of virtue with the comforts
of inaction. Seeking the easy way out of a moral
dilemma, he defends his stand as “the art of the pos-
sible.”

Vivisection, he agrees, is very bad; and he would
like to see it abolished. But the question is not what
you want but what you can get. And things being as
they are, all we can have is control. “Inﬂexible dog-
matist,” he mutters, when we refuse to give way.

Of course we cannot rigidly reject any possible
compromise. But there is a distinction too vital to be
glossed over that separates compromise from sur-
render.

Suppose we were offered a bill which forbade the
practice of Vivisection in newly Opened medical labo-
ratories. While this would freeze the existing situation,
we could accept it as a compromise which halted the
spread of the evil and which could be used as a spring-
board to intensify the ﬁght against it.

Conversely, an agreement which sanctiﬁes the evil
in the name of amelioration is not compromise, but
betrayal.

 

9;..3‘C




.5}

\ - .-
$2.29!

 

COMPROMISE—OR SURRENDER?

Compromise, as the realist would agree, implies give
and take. Now let us examine how much he asks us
to give and how little he offers in return.

One brute fact stares us in the face immediately. To
accept the legislative compromise proposed in these
regulatory bills, is to concede the very principle which
is being argued. For each of these bills oﬂicially per-
petuates the crime it regulates.

Even more, it sets a premium on vivisection. Since
it automatically certiﬁes the “humanity” of the law-
abiding slaughterer, the immorality of taking life is
completely brushed aside. This moral sanction alone
guarantees perpetuation.

We ﬁnd here not the “give” of compromise, but the
“give up” of surrender. And what do we get? We get
an illusion: avoidable pain is prescribed—maybe.

For the plain fact is that regulation offers very little
protection even on its own terms. Judging from the
British experience where regulation dates back as far
as 1876, legislative precautions offer little if any relief
from pain.

However, to argue the practicality of the proposed
protection is to beg the question. Assume that the
restrictions on pain were made watertight. Then bal-
ance this small concession against thepurpose of the
vivisection we would sanction: experimentation on a
living animal; experimentation which in itself insures
a cruel and lingering death. A humanitarian who
accepted the terms of that compromise would cease to
be humanitarian.

As physiologists tell it, the man who has formed
habits of poor posture cannot stand straight simply by
ordering himself to do so. His body has long associated
“straightness” with a particular constellation of muscle
and nerve tensions which makes it in fact stand
crooked. The more desperately it strives for straight-
ness, the worse becomes its posture.

The same thing holds for conscience. Addiction to a
diet of ersatz compromise induces a spiritual malnu-
trition which gradually deforms our moral posture.
Nor can a conscience which has become inured to
this faulty stance, easily will itself back to the humanity
it has ceased to feel.

 

 




 

k

REGULATED EVIL?

Regard for a moment the bustle of activity within a ’

medical laboratory. Flesh is sliced from living ﬂesh
to test the efﬁcacy of a skin graft. A chest is opened
and a living heart removed to see if the beat can be
maintained in an artiﬁcial environment. A viral culture
is injected to study the deadly progress of an incurable
disease.

Can we speak of compromise and regulation here
without choking on the words?

Regulate the pain as you will—the cruelty, the dis—
memberment, the death remain as before. Regulate
the pain as you will—and vivisection is no less a cruel
and bitter punishment. The more cruel, the more bitter
because inﬂicted upon creatures who can utter no word
of protest, sign no petitions of redress.

There is no relief for death. When the chips are
down for good, the middle ground of compromise gives
way to the either/ or of ﬁnal choices. One either con-
dones—or outlaws.

THE BATTLE IMPAIRED

So much for principle. But if the relief offered by
these regulatory proposals is illusory, their damaging
impact on the struggle against the Vicious institution
of vivisection is very real indeed.

Breaking the power of the medical-pharmaceutical
lobby is no easy task. It demands the dedicated devo-
tion of every supporter we can recruit. And nothing is
better calculated to render that devotion meaningless,
than the deceptive lure of legislative reform.

The greater the momentum of the spurious cam-
paign, the more it undermines the real struggle: dimin-
ishing the case for further change and reducing popu-
lar support. For public Opinion is capable of rapid
shifts to fresh objects of interest once a given battle
seems won. All of which is caviar for the vivisector
who would much rather deal with a regulatory law
than with a resolute and unyielding citizenry.

HIGH WIRE ACT

And make no mistake about it. Even in the best of
circumstances it is a backbreaking job to arouse, to
organize and to educate tens of thousands for sus-
tained and disciplined action.

 

  
 




 
     
 
    
 

Wit/III" ...,,

‘. _ f ."

LI
\ “\x‘ﬁi'i’wwﬂg V ‘ ' - a
3v ,

N
b. \“
G .x
b

 

Just recently, the Vivisection Investigation League
ran a series of ads in a publication reaching about
80,000 readers. We received some 10,000 queries;
added 1500 contributors to our ranks.

Which makes an interesting point. We can always
ﬁnd a goodly number of people who are aware o
injustice and abhor it. Mostly, however, they fail to
transmute this awareness into action—though they
seem often on the verge of so doing.

This is quite natural. Most of us may protest in—\‘S
justice verbally, but we avoid the committed act. We
prefer the comforts of slippers, pipe and T.V.

Yet, should the cause be worthy, our consciences
nag at us: urging us into action. We live our lives
balanced, as it were, upon a wire—one slight move-
ment and we would plunge deeply and irretrievably
into an act.

Those who would prevent such action pose them-
selves one simple question. How can they keep us
perpetually balanced on that wire? It is a delicate
maneuver, for failure will mean the plunge. But they
manage it neatly.

The secret lies in the device of the glittering alterna-\
tive. This can be made to contain every attractive trait:
kindness, honor, and above all feasibility. Whereupon
a debate ensues between those who would reform (it’s
more practical, you know) and those who would
uproot. .

The upshot? Energy is sapped by talk. Where action
is precipitated, the more diﬂicult course of principle QQ
is gradually suppressed in favor of the easier way of .
expediency.

So it is here. By the simple strategem of diverting
the discussion from the life to be saved to the pain to
be ameliorated, the vivisectionist diverts the explosion
of righteous wrath from its rightful target. Even more,
he has succeeded in setting us against each other.

That is the true catastrophe. Nothing the medical ‘\
lobbies have done or can do is so dangerous to our
cause as what the chimera of regulated inhumanity
has induced us to do to ourselves.

 

 




 

THE POWER OF UNITED ACTION

However, there is a bright side to the picture. For
remember: Not merely to know the face of evil, but
to be moved to detest it and ﬁght it, is the noblest
attribute of man. And the sincere proponent of regu-
lated vivisection has committed himself to action.

Mistaken he may be, in this instance. But surely we
will ﬁnd in him a staunch ally for the greater struggle.
More, we can use the interest generated by his clamor
about pain as a springboard to arouse public feeling
against vivisection to the highest possible pitch.

To this end, we must stop this internal bickering
over fringe issues. Let us instead turn our energies
outward toward the common enemy.

We have powerful weapons: the raised voices and
marching feet of dedicated people. If we use them in
concert, we can successfully forge that basic lever of
change: an informed and angry populace. This is the
lever which will force open the doors of the torture
laboratories.

Just as the great cliffs of the continental shelf dis—
solve into fragments of rock before the incessant bat-
tering of a turbulent ocean, so will the forces of evil
crumble under the ceaseless battering of a determined
people.

This article which appeared in Town and Country
was written by Curtis P. Freshel, president of the
Vivisection Investigation League.

 

 

“$935” mqvg‘JrQH-} -u-n .- 0“” -_ .

-54'ILC'A g _ 1" I‘

5.1.9

.- A;

L. “MWM- '

am.11m«




.‘u-rp. ‘- -v-v- "J 1

 

r-r :1

_ _,‘,

- Y'rgw- 3-31.! - .

mama-1 n ;“‘ v

21 “A, ‘5’

”‘I'.’

1:. “M'WM: '

‘ Lem—1w

I o

In a

- 7' '.
ml‘u‘

{Mul- ..
oqiﬁﬁi' "

:‘a,

 

We need your understanding and your
support. For justice is everybody’s busi-
ness. You can do 2 things to help.

1. Let your friends and relatives know how
you feel about the meaningless regulation
of Vivisection.

2. Write to us to learn more about the
Vivisection Investigation League and
how you can play a part in our con-
tinuing campaign for animal welfare.

Address all communications to:

Vivisection Investigation League
220 East 57th Street
New York City 22

 

 

 

Active Membership $2.
Sustaining $5.
Patron $10.
Life Membership $100.

FORM OF BEQUEST

To those benevolent persons who may be disposed to
become benefactors by will to the Vivisection Investi—
gation League, Anti-Vivisection Society of New York,
Inc., the following form is respectfully suggested:

“I bequeath to the Vivisection Investigation League,
Anti—Vivisection Society of New York, Inc., the sum
of $ .................... to be applicable for the
general purposes of such League, and I declare that
the receipt of the Treasurer, or other proper ofﬁcers
for the time being of such League, shall be a suﬁ‘icient
discharge for the same.”

 




THE VIVISEBTIIIN

INVESTIGATION LEAGUE

NEW AQQRESS “i
220 EAST 57 STREET'
NEW YORK 22, NY,

 




 

_ :gmmna; Meier-i in“ wé 9 -*
ii :avmmmh‘ihe "so ’ 13% -"*
. ome {O ‘ ': ZUIB: ”QR”

 

 

 

“Y‘ ,1 ‘ (#0)]: Wm"

Just in case you don't have this
iri your clip pings--

U

 

 

 

 




3 -‘ 5mm "3 gran

.‘3

«Welfare thﬂtﬂl’iéStﬁéSla wbul‘d’wmsttate

,‘ ,4 1-»; ‘3 3. 3. .1 ,3 " ‘
. . , .
4‘». i.

“1";11112111111119111‘1011 1:11 ’

1'31 13:? 111.111 (1111:1111: 35mg

3 tifféaiin’be‘liévkng 11111111111 ‘bill M11

1 7“ é‘hsﬁf’é humaﬁe 1:1t1‘e111tmentc o£_. ‘-an_im‘als

‘sed"“£or experimental purpqses’” Bg
. 3 3

3.1111131 nggsuchMords 39113, , _ . . ,,
111111111111‘1111-‘11111’1111 71170 1112
' "Mfriﬁéctur Iromwpérforx‘hiﬂa thé most

cruei’eineriments thatishockatha Amer.
iéa‘n" publ1c..1t states 1 ' 11w . 1

S" "‘pl‘eVéntAa‘tHé, " '7 '
mals £r8m’feeling pain during and‘éﬂer
thé @Xperiment exCept t6 théi ééttént‘thdt

1 ‘ the”; i13e"6f anesthetics: wbuld frustrate
,the obge‘ct .01231131113 'éx‘pé 1111111211131 _ 11"“
5311633112 :fniri‘éu) 91-41 1 , '
1§F0r1exampla if 3 .. 1. 3
éhg he Iegy 011 "abg
‘e 110%!"-

x 31191311361131; the 1.

IV.“
“gamma "15 151161111 ‘ f”?
aﬁ1estﬁesia';g1r 113111111111 11 -f
111-1131111115r 111111611111 E

{jalso

”i .11.: h b11133 :11” 3
: ﬁré 1111112310115 1 :
, 1353511 W

 




‘ IA L M»: 11% (3'33“ BU3$ El.” ,
' V I ‘ m > . .

W

Tha sﬁﬁﬁwmantm ﬁhﬂm$ ghw aﬂﬁﬁ?$ﬁ?ﬁ?yﬁﬁwﬁ%¥iﬂgar hill ara aevrewﬁg but many
ﬁiﬁaanaﬁgtiﬁﬁa mmamr ia ﬁﬁa aaatiam am ﬁhﬁ ﬁxaﬁkmﬂlsﬁwlanﬂ b&11.
‘ 'Th$ lﬁgﬁ 3amgﬁmﬁ$ ﬂ“ Ewﬁﬁvﬁww ﬁg 39% tﬂﬁaﬁ ﬁmimalg aufﬁmviﬁg ﬁﬁiﬂ whimh i3
hath ﬁgvgﬁﬁ‘anﬂ gyﬁlﬁﬁgwd wk §f%% ﬁﬁiﬁlwﬁﬁly’killaﬁ. Thawa i3 mg»%w$ﬂibiﬁ axwmy~
@ﬁmn fﬁ@m ahiﬁ fﬁﬁﬁiﬁwmﬁmﬁq . ' ‘ " V .

3}” ”W“ W‘meh M mm t .- a w mm mm ml?” ﬂung $~ mm“ ﬁlm
ﬁg wﬁmmm W33: $th MW?" ’3“? ﬁmwmgly in.» j , ﬁnimgﬁ aim. 2% MM 3345 ”Ma Q? m6 mmr

'ﬁf ghﬁ'ﬁﬁawﬂﬁ®y§ ﬁw ﬂ fﬁﬂﬁ fﬁmm2fﬁliﬂg aw? ﬁﬁaﬁamwmﬁ ﬁ%&&h 1% ﬁn amm£1imﬁ-with~ﬁha

hﬁﬁwﬂﬁ Wﬁﬁﬁi?@ﬂﬂﬂ%ﬁ mf ﬂﬁﬁiﬁﬁﬁm xf-a aﬁaﬁgmwmﬁ ia'wn fil$,.it mmanafv 'ﬁ 1% has

mwﬁ Ewan aﬁwia&am¢ _ ‘

ﬁﬁiﬁ‘ﬁﬂw?iﬁﬁ mm %@ ﬁ§$ {aliwwﬁﬂg aﬁaﬁwmwﬁta* ;&$‘ahmﬁamam%$'a¢ma‘in ta tha
iﬁﬁgﬂﬁhmmm$ affiﬂﬁﬁ, ﬁawy wﬁilg’mf'Ww&w$@* vaaﬁ tham. Fﬁllawimg tha'ﬁritiah pram
awﬂwmﬁﬁlt&ay WWﬁlﬁ‘ﬁﬂkﬁ thw mwﬁmaﬁamy gatiwmg‘mhmthwﬁ ﬁa aanﬁmlt w¢$h hh$ aaianﬁ
' tiwt abmwﬁ hiﬂ‘mﬁﬁhmﬁm am ﬁg $ﬁ¥iﬁ$>hiﬁﬂﬁﬁ'ﬁavwﬁﬁﬁﬁwﬁ iﬁ ﬁaﬁﬁﬁ wh&w@'%h$*law
wwmiﬁ hm wiwiaﬁwﬂ‘hy ﬁﬁmﬂﬁ%ﬁiﬂﬁm Eha bv+&$m ia ﬁiﬂﬂﬁﬁ an thg ﬁamwwﬁau? am ﬁiga
a??$$?ﬁ hﬁﬁﬁﬁﬂ$ ﬁﬁm ﬁn @ﬁ»%a h&w w%i%@& 3% lama kw ﬁaka ﬁha aa$wntaal atap af
wgalam W swim} wwﬁmmm mm "ﬂaw m m: Mama gammaingg mint W whim
pvawmﬁpwwwal ﬁﬁﬁlﬂ @9gin, Wiﬁh tﬁa p.wuﬁ$imm far ﬁisagﬁraval, maaai?$ atmpping
a? mark in ywmgraﬁﬂ wmmké ﬂak kw namaﬁﬁaxy; Thw imapactara, aw in Eriﬁaiﬁ, waabﬁ
baaamaaa¢maimﬁa&:wﬁkh th¢1§ﬁwnasa$'undwr aaﬂh'amm’a'jmriﬁﬂiaﬁéan an$ wwmlﬁ saan
Ea in a ¢w$&ﬁiwm Ea jmﬁga whmra thw gwaaﬁmah ﬂwruﬁiny wag naadad.

Thw”na%t aywwr am ta atata that a vaa$arwh$w naad mat Evan £Xla ﬁha paper
if} 33 xga.rwgﬁgsgg tha axyarimamﬁ wi11.nmt intarfara with thﬁ amﬁmml‘a'navmml
’haalﬂh and awmfwwtw an ﬁha ammmrmﬁy; if ﬁha mmpar$mamt~dwaa intarfara with ﬂan

 




animal’s nawmgl hamlth am? emmfort, ha aaulé lmsa his liaansa far haviag grow
«andad witbmut filing a statmmanﬁ. A

Qaneuyn&ng the affwgtiveﬁaag wf tha Eriﬁig; ﬁat, $%$.abu$$$ $9 awwran in
ﬁmariagﬁilaﬁaratariag hmva $¢a%‘§rwwamtmﬁ ﬁg 3wVWEE* Lf'*f;«iA+%iah»&€t. Thawa
i5 WM auah ahamg.aa ragaatgé agﬁywﬁaamw bg*$2waamta ﬁﬁ.a $ing1$ ﬂag. W arw $3
an saga thiag a5 hﬁﬂﬁiﬁg dgga 3m %%ﬁmwan$ aaggg anﬁ hmgimg ﬁha:aag&$*mﬁﬁu ﬁhﬁ
dagg inwii,; Thﬁ?m in ﬁﬁ auaﬁ $hiag ﬁﬁ tha ﬁahaamﬂalliy ?gr , .

Lo%_én@$®'ah@ saaff’aﬁ'anﬁ ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬂ g‘law*%hat7haa peranlia thwaa ﬁhwwa
hawwawwiamgaain‘““y %ﬁﬂ§*wan£ a;mar@ aawa.an&,hwmaing %ﬂ1$w

1ﬁ@§QAHWMEMW5 a? aawmﬁVi';w 2£5*i$7557?‘?r;lﬁﬁﬂ in $ﬂin£ul aﬁﬁﬁrﬁﬂmaka“
It 13 a vital.ww@waramaa$ a; $»-; ggg $ﬁﬁ?&%ﬁﬁy'ﬁh$ ywwar %@ mﬁka amah‘limitam
ﬁium in war awwntwyg‘wyawa auaﬁ $g¢~¢¢mMn$$ gag thiﬂg-glaaatat thﬁ.@ﬂﬂﬁﬁﬁt

timau

ﬁﬁﬁMﬂ'makgg tk$ a$muzﬂavﬁlmxm,wiaﬁ &%.i$ “magnisglﬁaam tha$ amﬂmala mﬂat

tawaiva ”yaaﬁayawaﬁiva aara-ﬁa miﬁimimﬁ ﬁiaawmfwrt ﬁmwﬁ%g %&ﬁyﬁl$$ﬁmﬂﬂﬁw ~v«
4;;% aanﬁiﬁiamﬁ Mﬂﬁﬁ ha maim£aimﬁﬁ far ﬁha.&miwai@* wwwﬁﬁrﬁ 1m ﬁﬁﬂwwﬁaﬂﬁﬁ Wiih
tha baat praatimﬁa 13 gaall aniw~i hmﬁﬁitﬁiﬁa fhwy ﬁg? tﬁa%‘wgﬁm wkjaaﬁ ﬁf
many’aﬁpmr&mamta 13 kw inﬂuaa gaiﬁ may ﬁﬁlﬁﬁaragﬁly‘wiﬁhhmlﬁ}@wﬁnwwwliﬁvﬁmg
ma“ ﬂ 3 have?! ’mﬁé M1823, is: Mmmtﬁ am? mag “wiasmsjm<:§$ 9f aﬂmaﬁkﬁ' in mm
gurgiml Mmrﬁmmta a}? was» 9 Mahala 3.2%: mam ”f mmﬁ kinﬁ Mk mm.»
i‘ha mm almm invariably mm m ,_ 2:. mm Wmﬁt m ”a? $2M $2M”
in mginian %a%waam vmtarinariana in alimiaal yrautﬁaa and gwwyla £n.wwwaavw»
inaﬁitwtimns $$ ﬁwmmmﬁtrataﬁ in thm analaaaﬁ, markad.ﬁmfﬁwmaﬁgaa_ﬁagwwﬁw

Thu variaug alaima ag ta what “wall $$ﬁll Fw'garmiﬁ36d“ andaw’ﬁha ﬁlarkw
ﬁlavwland ball awa famtaatia. QMmtaimly, an atarvatian wf‘ﬁwgﬁ far 65 ﬁayw

 




3

lags agar ham: 41mm Imdéﬁ'r ﬁlm ﬁriﬁsgh Mt, an > Which aim Glazh’égﬁéﬂawlamﬁ bill 33

basaéa %ith rmgard tgraurawa, it 1a mat an $ﬂ®3thatic anﬁ @aulﬁ nag hm tyaataﬁ
a$ gaah anﬂﬁr aha Sigrkwﬂiwvaiamﬂ “Ear am§ m@r% ﬁh&m it @ﬁﬁ ha unﬁar ﬂﬁa Eriﬁégh
Aatw ﬁat, $5 is maﬁa alga? ﬁﬁwavéﬁ @hﬁ aaﬂ af @agafaarg th@ W?it$$ mf aha
ammﬂggia is alga @ywmsad ha :4, §w&ti$h ﬁat, ﬂaw $t¥ﬁﬁgﬂﬁﬁ law wagﬂiaﬁﬂag gnimal
-exy¢w&manﬁatimm mkﬁﬁh haﬁ avg? Eﬁﬁﬁ @m&ﬁ%@§%

Tha iigﬁﬁmg af‘ha%%ar$ w%iaﬁ it ia ﬁiaimﬂé-amulé kw aarvéaﬁ amt'mgiww ﬁhﬁ
ﬁlakaﬂlavalamﬁ &i&l d»waaat§at%$ tﬁw wwﬁtam‘s §%$§uﬁia$w ’Ia ia~®xﬁwwgas
waffaving that.th@ ﬁlarkmﬁlwvaignﬁ kﬁkl, lika $ﬁ$ mﬂdgig ﬂag/ﬁrﬁtimh.ﬂ¢ty 3%

apaaifiaally ﬂﬁﬁiggfy %@ $¥ﬁ¥ﬁﬂﬁw

 




49‘...

t. ,_ ‘7' 6n

.1]: 3.9.1 «3 22: Ru -1 0, '3 '3“:» 3f“ 3-”. $51,533?" :45 M'w~1.s;..g f QUW?

Tom Justice presidnd with Phi '93 at his right. Continuing an round tbs table:

Marsh of Bakland, Clifton Johnson of Edtorit, Patriak Parkoa and Oltvar Evans at

R383, Jo Margmn, the AHA‘wahhgngtan attornay, CS and Botﬁscy‘xiornan for SK?L,

Charios Frisdzidk, SF, Georg. Croaiar af LA, Cdlten Buttriak of Bostan (wha thaagh

he is eh» ahariman cf tha AHA aammittoe-tnok almost n9 part in tho disausaian, no
farmal part at all), Jay Schaffar 9f Chiaaga.

‘Mr. Eastian first specified ﬁhat tho manting'ba aft ﬁho raaard sa far as pdbliea~

Man is mmwned.

0n E.R. 19026, Hargan wants ta sad pawar ta mike regulations an tha part af tag Dapt

of Agrie (as ﬂaggmm by Horkinrmdarh all agreed. (38 naked m sea bill as roused.
Morgan said: ha; mum sand . W mmw time Handed to £30 Maura , bat paw”: agaim‘t
this. Sam: RRa perpetually vialating Azt aeaarﬂing ta ?hillips.

Phillips summarissﬁ abjaatians raisad ta Clwﬁau bill as: quastians

woman-my of the impeach“, leak of provision far training , . .
diffiaulty of gatting tha naeeaaary’apprepriatian thraugh eengrasa. Ea unmmariaad
abjwtima ta ﬁlm Randall and 9333p” bills as: fallow: onfaremnt by 3» 1311. at Just
suggwt intent ts: do maxing, mm m tapa than tha 01 M11 "bill, vary matly he sat.

ap naw‘buraan. ijaatiana to ﬁandalph ball: avawytking in tha hands at the »= gaan
Ganaral with no autﬁida advica, ijaatamng ta Bay3 1 ball: an taeth at all.

1311111193 than mid the mating; mg m «answer fwm far wamtwm : m m»

ARA award 6f ﬁireatmra. ‘Ha aaid they-did ant hava a alaaad mind. T air aﬁtian with
raspoat ta Ragarﬁ bill was ba$3d 3a magi yaar'a situatian. margan amphaaimad this
rapaaﬁadly, refarring ta Rabarts' ﬁafgat.

m. Evam paint mt. that mam that Wall bill them 13 am annually renewable

lienn3a, and thaﬁ tharg kg 3 yamalty far gavarnmant labs that vialate‘ﬁhu ~

15W'instmad af publicatian @f3thair vialatian.

3r. Margan.paintad out.that thara is an indiraat arimingl sanatian in tha ﬁagars ball
beaaﬁsa 3f mtggimg 3 ﬁaatammnt that tkay Enuld owmply.

Qnaatiana indiaatad.continuing cmnfusiem abaut th3 liaumaing uf nanwgrantaaﬁ. A150,
Aﬂﬁ.qnastian$ an.th@ numbar af 939913 ta b3 lkaamsed warn vawy prasging. They
abwiauslkanaw tﬂiﬁ is a majarvisaue‘

Evana agraad to all tha baﬁie paints, thmugh he siaﬁ thay'éo mat nmeﬁ inapaetara

maﬁa? thﬁ Randall bill; hanvwr, ha ﬁaaa not abjaat t9 inspaatara. FriOdriéka bwanght
up abjaatiaaﬂ to provigian in ﬂandgll ball allawing entry inte labﬁ ta law anfaraamant
offiaurﬁ at ﬁha atata, paintimg out that “waytain'wmmnnﬁ in California «quid git inta
labs “Mar mesh a praviai—an. €33 mid the paint was mt. myth aiacuwing 51mm Cam.
wnmld carﬁaialy atrﬁke thi$ a»¢tian.bafare pasaing 33* ball. Evana aaid,K$US halicvad
in having “aims whiah mm m émpgod. mum mats a ciismw awn batman Marga: and
Evans aanaarning «ﬁtting 6?! fanﬁa far a vialatian» HSUS emghasiaas ﬁhat no fﬁrﬁhbr
govwrnmanmrmanay aauld bu ayant‘by a énpartmmnt if it warm in violatian. Evans said the
funds woula be “autamatiaalmy amt aff.“ Ea alga paintad ant that @xamptian faam'asu @f
anaathasia wuulé havu ta ha apmaifiaally gran$¢d ta a rumaarchar undar the Randdll bail.
Ha painxnd ant that undaeroth the Randall ind Ragars balls, gurdhaﬁws and aantracta arm
mama. mm including phammtioul Mums as m 1 m 1am mmm grants m
thn gmamant.

31mm amid was maid mt aamapt. the: ash": wry W1 mm as mutated in thy Regan
bill. ?hqy want 3 mndical, 3 hum&na, and 3 gunnV¢13publia. 33 said pain_1s dhfinad
in tha Randill ball. =uw.«ring tha Rindall ball and tha Gluﬂau ball, kn «aid that. arm
sum.” ' pmviaiam in km Randall m1). ma tun act-had; mm mm m atrangar and
mm manna. ﬁr. Park“ mm he mm. tht mam“ wax-a alas“ mgwhw than ha
had magma. .
Marga: had W going m the star; manta to am when than ma dimgmmt.
Mama: a. a» can point am, hm. «at» far :3 AM ma unnamed, mm mm m pmgmas

' . ~ and um mint, mad when 03 “wand m mmm to the 1133. at paints.» “the 4

as. mum again became mum, a ' Justina» ma Phillips hath tried to damn that

we all wantad thva 9mm things, it was $133. 393 had diffamnt ways a! gas-1m ‘nmt

 




2.. AHA, HSUS, SAPL meeting callad by R. Pumps

“waving than. Friedrich emphasimd that having a committee and shaming tha mlas
all the time was: the “moriam” way to legislatm

Morgan kept asking questions about tha pain rule. CS road the Britiah maimonts

t0 thaw. be am dmwad, but . gm wither did they accept them. Morgan also kept
raising abjseﬁans ta student writ: being painlws. Ha was combat! abeut ma sabbionﬁoa.
mttri ck said. he lacked forward to the day whan thwwwld be: a vetarmrian in awry
lab. Hergan and that ma 3 impesaiblb. CS told abctﬂ, Dr. B. @1363 his refusal ta 51%
“pair: relieving: drugs ta slaw that having 8. wt is mm a minim. Schafi’br mntbd ta
kmw 3f we shanldn" b ml}. 1.1:. "*acbmaiatatimﬁ mum: bf 1133113123 and maybe um mark“
We! appeal mm m men-mars bf Cbngrw as, as being: 1am: be gatim.

Juauw said we mat. pmsarm tbs d1 gnity bf tha humm mammbnb. CS mm mm ma
mt mammary and mfbwbd t9 “£15m by mama 01‘ the ”tabla bmmnt whim beam. have
to bus bmught. out if may cantimm to mypert a “£93k bill wbﬁ. cab did mt

canmm the basic mints . Tm: am mama w tam afﬁrm War: at m aharwtwibatibn
‘01? than actians b5; ”abmzﬁnablaﬂ 0:: him (sanitary bkmy thankad CS far bezmg $6 aim,
and m we chalibngm or man wk. A be baby what the; Mbibnb ware. “mum grew at. guilty
mm mam amassimly fri bncily that: tbs: Wham .

 




. ;

'(official-organ of

l m9 C

‘
am!"

'The American AntiFVivisection societyy

51903 CheStnut Street, Philadelphia 3; Pa.

 

 

 

 

 

you LXVIII

PHILADELPHIA, PA.,‘-3}3L3r, 1960

 

 

 

 

 

 

Unnecessary Pain , and Fear is»

(7.532: Editorial)

Two bills relating to! cruelty in animal expert
ments‘ came before Congress late in its .3959-
1960 session. .

These proposals have been widely p1:?:2‘i.$ict:érad.
and we want our readers to gain faxniliariéﬁif,= 2:353:31
them as a preparatory step before an active
campaign agaimt them is opened.

In the ﬁrst place, we. wish to offer a reminder
that they are bills, not laws; as yet. Wk} mil
attention to this status beCausc we have heard
of a number of pmple, «me at ieasi; of them a.
physician, who did not know the. difference.

Our'readers are, of course, mosstiy famiiiauf
with the distinctixm, since: we have often- dis—
cussed it in our pages, but for anyone to whom
the terms are not clear, we may rtzpeat than: a
bill is a. proposed act wl'lich has been offered! in
Congress or a. State: Legislature: or other ifg‘w
iative bddy. It is not a law ur1ti1:it has mean
passed by the lzm7~rnaking body and signer} by
the Executive.

Only a fraction of the bills introduced in Con~
grass ever become law. Tlﬁ‘his appliés even "to
measures presented aarly in the session. Thasc
which are: brought in late, unless may have to

' do with some national. emergency, have Iii-ﬁe
chance of adoption. '

Many members of the present Congresshave

:eXpréssedthewish tosadjourn Early in, July,

51._.jb«_;£9re. the; national. pulitica] comm-11.60115; Edd
tlnsplan beenmrrledﬁw‘ mare". would 3'3
é‘fbrien-glitz}:L'Imssibix'itys3 that . any deﬁnite: _ act-“mik- , - '
33'woult1'.havcbeengtaléén at this“ ~s¢$simoniﬁith6r 77'1'7g‘3-i13;WhiCh Tell‘js»t°"ni51‘"3d many gwd pimple
. 3 _ ., . p , by jm’ak‘iﬁg ti? (311...! believe 501118 Worthy purpose

Of- the." bills 3 we are discussing.

‘ .

r ,
«
h
l
.
.

‘ Thai; pfgﬁcnt arrangement," hoWevef,~ is: for

Congressm‘lake a; “ramsg'apd theri can“ back

again'in August. In that case,.thei~es is a_possi.-
bility, if. not a gmat one, that one- or the other g
of. these bills might beacted upon. ' . .
The, Iikelihaad is thatneither of the: bills Will '_
have. been adapted before this Congress ﬁnally. ,.
adjourns. ' 3 ' ‘ _ I w ' . _
When 'Cm‘xgress classes the session _. by .
adjournment “sine die” a“ bill that'_ has not _‘
passed both houses; .by that, time is dead. But
it: can be introduced as a. new bin at. any time in
the guacceding Congress, and .it is a-‘Virtnal .
certainty that these bills will be. brought up _
anew in. the. 1961 3653mm 3 .3 ' ‘ V
The: Smate bin, (55. 3570}. has an unusual
list of weiL-imawn sponsm's, incimiing Senator [
f(::sc:-:1:s‘l'2 S. Clark, of Pennsyivania. The bill in}
the, i'L-"itimssae 03‘? Rap'rethativcs 31$ 1%LR;.:12387. It;
"was; .immducmd by Representative Martha :H.
(L'Eriﬁiths. Copies- are :10th hand at the" moment,
but it is described invncws reporis. as; foliowing .
the same. liners as the: Senate. bill." ' ., ' 5
They are supported by migranizations, such as.
the: Suciety 5561‘ Animal Prefective "Legislation
'evbich do not Claim it) be 3anti-viviSectionist.
Accordi 1:15; to their own statements, they are.
willing to accept the evi‘ of vivisecti’cm if a Show,
not {sf aimiishing this evil, but of seeking to, rev
(311cc some of its most obvious practices’is made.
"Show” of bringing abbu’c such

"“76 refer i0 2; ‘

ﬁreraultajfcn‘ that is; aﬁtthisp bill undcartakes‘to
'-_._,a;cc£*)1.1;p1ish. It is of a. type oilegislation, some~

timeas introduced innocently, sometimes with

is to be achiéved by the proposed enactment,

'whereasatbe. bill at its best is entirely negative,

 




NINETY-EIGHT

 

The A-V

 

221' at its worst 22'222)‘ actuaily entrench the vicious.
practice. 222321632 it aliegcdl} 222221222 (:3.

This is. true- especiaUy of 2122522222212 \ arious
legislative. proposals 3"222223 been put 322222222123 in
the past px.2r1.2c22'2i22g 22.2 2322:2532 2'22 2232.2' 2'22 222122: 2-3--
22.2<;.2'22:5, but 2227.2222'2333' devised 20 3322222222222 it.

The i2'2tr222'3222'tti022 to S. 3570 is quite 323223»
52222222332254, 222223 22222); have 222353272
22'033 22:5 2222222322225: 2.23 2322': general 22223231:
“That it is. 27122232222323 2.0 3222.2 223 the.
United 522222.25 332222" living 22222222322222; 2222222222325:
12:52:23 3222' 5272222223332: exig2e2'i22'22222t5 22222.3 {2:525 5322233

32322? 522222252225 2:2
It E‘Lx‘itﬁs
the: 222232

322‘: 522:;22'2'22'1 222'2222:2;2~15.‘5:22j\.' pain 222223. {22.222 ; 232223 3322:}?
5322233 322-: 22:52:23 22223;: when 2.22;; 212232622: 32322533236: 2.222.213
5222i5f22ct<t2ry 22225223222235 (T2121 322': 2.25623 2212 5522222 22322
32ic23272giC223 and scientific 52232222222timi 3.27.22 2322': (12222;;
221’ (i? «2252 :2332222222ti22-22 of 5223222222“, molcmgatian
22.2223 2.32222.
3.22: 21222223222 22312322 3'2 222252-223.
2222.33 .5623 22122.3 32222223226322 3122222332223.

2'22 life. 222" 2222' 222i3322227y 2232;22irei22222225;
2233 :5222'3'2 222232222235 5322233

.2 2022 23.22.52 22227.2 «222222.23 22251222 33212225; 2:322 2.2232: 312};
222.232 2222222225 apply 22:: 2233 2.0222223222232223} -22322'22'22»
2222365, 3221: 0H3)‘ 22:2 2322:2522. receiving grams 320222
the 3'72223222'223 (i.32:222'232'2'222222'22t 32:22: 52:2322'222233'32'. 1‘6565121'223'1,
22:521222.2322202223132222 12.513223 (22' 22723223222; It 2222-222 he
22222223 2222232322222 2333'». Jun 52.2'ch grants are not 222:2-
.52-2'2'2'223 222'22225522ri3v 2222‘ 22'2'5222222222225 (2'3 32t.222'2'2i2'2.2;.
32121312322225 2'23. 222 '2223'5. 32:23:2“2123':

2223222222.; agencies;

1

2.22223 22W2rl2221222322225, (5.22232 22.5 the 2:222:22 drug com-
‘2):22232'25 2223222 322.2222: 223270222322 322222.22 222223222 (7021222225—
532222223 fire hem-2.2256 of *heir 3322:2'2'221223y 222221-213! 22:223
122'222' 2.32205 in 2'22322tirm 2.2;) 21322222}; 22:2 {222222322 ‘22-'222223222:
232 22225. ”
m3 iK’

22222222223. 322225 22223:."
Hut (3212 22222 13722::

of 2320
unncuwuu". 2222.322.

322222223 2.2213222":

322225;:
2222253 23:22?“
2322252202025 2222;223:5222 22222222 2322-22.
13222222- is 2222 22222202155222): 2222322 2222213 1322.222 in their

32333. 22.5 2.222;?

22:242'2222'32'22222225i' 332.2 222122. 502222.; 2.23 2732232222, in f2’22.'t_.
3225352 {32:22. 1.3222222 i5 222:2 2222222. 2122' 2252222 2:23 2222.}? 355.2223,
2'2222:2'~.i5;5:'2'2'y 222' 222'222222'2225522232?

3:3212'22' i5 51123.32. 2min 21222.3 32.2222 322 322:; 2.232322333722223.
222223 32}' 223222222? Why, 222:2:2'22'23222g 212.2 the 2.722272220522213
32i33. by the 223222622222222222225 22.322222256322225. 3332:2232 is to
221222322 for 22 ('72:21'2ifir::‘23c '23. 2222222223222222'2‘: 27222222 2322
Secretary 223 3322223232. [23222322222222 22222.3 \222’*'22'C
This certificate will inchid' 2.32.222:

22223 d

22 2723212223223222232212:
“.2\r2i2222235 2252223 in any experinwnt 22232323 2

result in pain 532 2233 be 22222352322223: 2'23 52.2 as. 2.22:»

272222 the 212232222235 feeliiw the pain. 21222322222 and
22ft2r the 2:21.2e2'3222e11t except to the extent
that the. use of anesthetics would frustrate
the object of the experiment.”

Here we have 22220232232: exception which (22.229225
2.32212. 2.10222 to unhmited cruelty

Having left (22.22322 2213 23223522. 32202232221225, which.
22'2'2uld 12223333); the Act 62.22322 if 52.2i32232322 62230210
22223222; WCI'C provided, what (.3008 the: 32533 0332222 to
provide 22.222232 62227022225122.2222? Nothing feasible.
".2522232222'22.22.2.3 2221222522222222322225" of the 82.2216222237
222‘ 33391332? 2222.22 32222.2: access 322 the. laboratcries
22.22213 to 2322.2: records. W's: may 3.222: 5.22223 if such
i2'2sapcacti2'222 21222222 (Ti-23216.? to- 3322. a reahty, 2222 32232232222»
22:22'5' 222222323 maii'imin records 53202222322g “2222222322239
5222"2 2,;222i2‘2 222223 36.13.22,

3.3 222'. V‘Ji‘hiff.‘ 2272322323 5.222232.
322.2222? 2.52

revrcs cntatix (-3.5 C212n‘223.
r23? inspectors 22222222323 3.22:2
"337322322 222222323 32 “222% to 3222 21222223. 222123 the
32333 222122232325 2222 .2 ‘22'2235 2222' 2-2222 5222332 222:2 2222252:

.2322 22225.2 rate, 32 5222.32 i'2f22-22'52'i222222.225, 3.23.- 22222226.
22.222231232222232222 2".22' cir‘ 2222225..222Cc , 5322222323 322223 222222--
2'2222g2272332m2'c with th& 22:2;2rthy 1722221205225. 2320-
2232232'222223 in 2322-2 act, what is the. 1122252223232? At 2322:
222722222, 52.252212222'25i27222 of 33222. 3322222256; N0 definite
32222222232 222" 23227222 232222222; 222323212 this susymmim
2222222323 2::2'2222i1'2222: i5 222:2.2'2'idcd in the. 32333. The
33222222522. 22222323 322.2 22352232272223 i2'222'2iediz2‘te3y 327.2 3222' 222.2
2222222323222; .322 2:322: 32333 52222.32'222222222-5. N0 responsibiiity
is placed 2.222 .222}: individLn-zl for {my '222'03221i2322.

As. W2: 22222. 5222', this 8221222222 3233.3 and its com-
2222252222 332.2 22523. 2222222522222 2222'222323 226222223332 222202222226
27-ix."'i522.cti2;222.. 3.2 22.202.23.23. 32.233 great 2222222322225 of
2.222.222.2323. 3:23:22 32223322223222; that though vivisectimn
22:222y 32222.22“: 312272.222 2222 evil 22*; one time, 2.2.33 of 212222:
322223 22272222 322-32222 223322232222th by 32222:. ”33223143330212, let

prewwc to ﬁght these; measures when the
222.233 for 22.2;‘2'i2'222 32022.5 2.2222.

22:23: 222222232222":
2:22.22 2 2 i 2' 22.213 .

2.1.3.333 3‘.

 




r‘\. . r. k /
.ﬂi ‘ E? 5'-
\‘-> {L 4 ,'U ’

CLARENCE E. RICHARD

100 EAST OHIO STRIBT
CHICAGO H. ILLINOIS

\ /

MEMORANDUM

Dr. Robert A, Russell February 12, 1962
Clarence E. Richard . ' D.”

 

 

 

REA: MOULDER BILL

W

This is a matter of information only, intended to keep you informed.

At the December conference in'waehington called by the National Catholic
Society for Animal welfare, Miee Helen Jones, of the NCSFAW and

Mr. Fred Myers, of the HSUS, had a long discussion over certain amendments
to the Moulder bill for regulation of vivieeotion, (The anti~viviaectionist8
present did not participate.) ‘

Miss Jones greased Mr» Myers for an amendment to the bill eliminating
the eaznes clause which'would permit vivisectors. in certain experiments,
to refrain from using anesthetics. ‘

Mr, Myers said; repeatedly, that such an amendment would KILL the bill,
that the measure as drawn by the HSUS was as strong as it could.be,

that the HSUS'was limited by what legislators WOULD INTRODUCE AND SUPPORT,
and that any attemet to strengthen the bill would.mean simply that it
could not be paeeeda '

NOW, according to the current report of the NCSAW, in a first page
article, it is said: ' I

MOULDER To eTREmGTHEN LAB.ANIMAL BILL;

WILL nsneee eNEeTEESEe.EXEMPTION,

The article gees en te eay that in a conference with Miss Jones, Re»
presentative Menlder agreed “the anesthesia exemption weakened the bill
and should.be removed."

AND NOW, according to the ESUS'BUEEETINg February, 1962, just received.
"MAIL FOR MOUhBER REEL @Ihﬂﬁ U? IN CﬂﬂGﬂﬁﬁS: HEARING MAY BE NEAR.“

And the article gees on to say, “indications that Congress will enact
Federal legislation te eroteot laboratory animals from cruelty and
needless suffering (underlining is ours) came from influential ppints on
Capitol Hill in Januarya '

What are we to think: what are we to believe? Antinvivisectionists present
at the Washington meeting an Messrs. Monkhanoff, Hunt and Snyder n ‘will
confirm.my statements aboveq '

But here we have a situation in Which Mr. Myers says if a certain thing
is done, the Moulder bill will have no chance; Miss Jones-persuades

Reyreeentative Monlder to do this very thing, and now the HSUS tells us
there are “indications" the bill will be passed. '

The scarw in its bulletins-urges humanitarians to support the Moulder
bill in_the form'Whioh Representative Moulder will amend it, the amendment
which Mr. Myers assured all of us oculd result only in certain defeat.
Theee are facte; I offer thee, as I said, merely for information, and

‘withont cemeenta jg:
' e0 ~

 




Here is the position of Mr. George R. Famum, President of theNew England

Antl-Vivisection Society, on the so-oalled vivisection regulation bill.

(CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR,~ OCTOBER 5, 1960)

 

Cooper 3111
To THE'Cansr-IAN SCIENCE. Mommas:

I have just read a iletteriby‘ 3 Cam-
bridge Woman discussing the Cooper bill.
.She' refers to a “considerable misundernf
standing on the part “objectors,” [adding
regrettably that “some of it is deﬁberate
misrepresentation and an attempt to con;
iuSe the issue by claiming that Senator
Cooper has" 'WithdraWn his; 13111.” > ' ’_

The latter charge is entirely. "unwar-
ranted as the objectors are notorily sin-e
cere humanitarians but well briefed on the
facts. The bill in question Was; pending.
before the Labor and Public ' Welfare
Committee when Congress ' adjburn'ed. .1
have before me ‘a‘ letter from one of.“ its” , ‘
cosponsors to the effect that it win hive
to be reintroduced if. further considerate-
.tionis'désired. 5 , T Q, -» . .

The Cooper bill is indefensible in
principle as it wanidi’ermaily .Ie'galiz'eftlie
cruel practice of 'vivisection' to a large-
measure. Furthermore,“it has been ”cork-
clusively proved by experience in ”Englgnd A
, since, :» the] ‘ enactment of ‘ jthe-fCrueity to ;
Q Animals .Act‘ 0&18'76 that; eﬁoﬁs‘egagggge
late: the-“practise have proved streak:
. 5’11 have, murk- ’ to firearm}jbu’te’fai. quarter; of
a century.- as? leader) of.-'iheg.‘New; menu »
= 'Anti-Vivisecﬁor’i Society-,- .- one of .-?the‘ lam-

: est. 'i aﬁd most 3high 1y; esteemed .soei'etiesfifig

*' animal “1““ mm «United? Stamens» '
given me some knowledge. of . theiutility .
“0!: regulatory" 'legis‘iation.) Abgﬁﬁmgig-‘thQ
””13 remedy 9" GWRGIBFW :-

 

 

 

 




r

 

_. a ll
2/ w‘

:’43.“\ ‘ { [ﬂ 1“ ‘ . n--.-..‘.., 5 ‘1’. ,1 ’ 'l‘
1. I , *4 f v v/

I'

Can wexbelieve what vivisectors and their paid apologists say in defense

of the evil inherent in animal experimentation? The answer must always

be an emphatic N01 The truth simply is not in them. This is a strong
statement, but it is backed by documentary evidence. Reproduced below is
an editorial from the MEDICAL WORLD NEWS, June 21, 1963. In the first‘
paragraph it is flatly stated that bills now before Congress to regulate
Vivisection are being vigorously promoted by the National Anti-Vivisection
Society. The truth is that the NAVS has consistently and strongly OPPOSED
all such measures and will continue to do so until its members decree
otherwise. Dr. Fishbein is guilty of either colossal ignorance (which
should disqualify him from spouting off in public about matters beyond his
ability to understand) or of a deliberate lie. A c0py of this accusation
has been sent togDr. Fishbein and to the editor of the MEDICAL WORLD NEWS.

 

o.

\k ‘ i

 

Morris Fishbein

 

, M.D.

Antivivisectionists Lobby
For New Legislation

The 88th Congress is considering
seven pieces of legislation dealing
with the care of laboratory animals.
And the National Society for Medical
Research reports that at least three
more are pending. These bills, pro—
moted vigorously by the National Anti-
vivisection Society, would severely reg—
ulate experiments on animals. Some
are extreme in their proposed restric-
tions.

Scientists, including those in the
medical profession, are understand—
ably tired of this annual battle with an-
tivivisectionists. Some have apparently
grown weary enough to accept “restric-
tions we can live with.”

Such a point of view has histori-
cally been the opening wedge to control—
by-dictatorship. The battle for proper
animal experimentation is not a cam—
paign for the personal convenience of
anatomists, physiologists, pathologists,
immunologists or surgeons. Animal ex-
perimentation is one of the most im—
portant factors in furthering the knowl-
edge of physiology, control of disease,
the development of important reme-
dies—indeed, the entire advancement
in health and longevity. Compromise
on this issue is defeat.

Several states, including Massachu-
setts, New York, Ohio, Illinois, Wis—
consin, Minnesota, South Dakota,
Oklahoma, Utah and Connecticut, al-
ready have adopted laws specifying
that unclaimed animals in public
pounds be utilized in biological and
medical research instead of being de-

stroyed and thus sacriﬁced uselessly.

Animal care centers such as those
at the University of Louisville and Uni—
versity of Illinois schools of medicine
are models of proper care for animals.
At Louisville, Carolyn Verhoeff, who
for 40 years demonstrated that love of
animals, common sense, and scientiﬁc
research can go hand in hand, has en—
dowed the post of animal care veter—
inarian at the university. The animal
care center in Louisville was named in
her honor.

Attempts at Self-Regulation

In New York City, 30 laboratories
and medical schools that use animals
for research participate in a voluntary
inspection program conducted by vet-
erinarians of the ASPCA, and the
number of participating laboratories is
expected to be doubled in a month.
The New York program reﬂects the
effectiveness of self—regulation.

In hearings before Congress, anti-
vivisectionists summoned the photo—
graphs and tales of horror that have
been their major support in the past. In
the Saturday Review Cleveland Amory
accepts as evidence and truth almost
anything that the antivivisectionists
cite in their support. Mr. Amory may
not know better, but the editors of the
Saturday Review should.

Those who would compromise with
the antivivisectionists should realize
that appeasement will never stop the
campaign continuously waged by
them. I

Wm...

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

VVIIEVBIEDI 8: RHEZEEIK

ACCOUNTANTS

51 DOUGLAS AVENUE
ELGIN, ILLINOIS

SHerwood 2-7571 _
JOSEPH C. WUBBEN EDWARD R. REZEK

6257 N. Navajo Avenue 7 1033 Peale Avenue
Chicago 46, Illinois ‘ . Park Ridge, Illinois
NEwcastle 1-8075 TAlcott 3-6704

August 5, 1963

 

ACCOUNTING -:- . SYSTEMS -:- AUDITS

 

Board of Directors

National Anti-Vivisection Society
100 East Ohio Street '

Chicago 11, Illinois

In accordance with your request we have verified the
results of the referendum submitted to the members of the
National Anti-Vivisection Society on the question of amend-
ing the Society's Charter and By-Laws, for purposes stated
in the Proposition attached to the ballot.

We made a check of the mailing of ballots to satisfy
ourselves that an official ballot was mailed to each eligible
paid-up member. A self-addresSed envelope was enclosed with
reach ballot mailed to insure that we reCeived the votes di-
rectly from the members. Only ballots received in official
envelopes and post-marked on or before July 31, 1963 were
counted. A tabulation of the ballots received discloses the
following: ’

48.78 Per cent of the eligible paid-up members cast
their ballots.

63.63 Per cent of the ballots cast voted (NO)

35.58 Per cent of the ballots cast voted (YES)

.79 Per Cent of the ballots were invalid.

We hereby certify that the results as stated above are
a true and correct tabulation of the official ballots cast.

Respectfully submitted,

WUBBEN & REZEK

(:Mioseph C. Wubben

MEMBER -- NATIONAL SOCIETY OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

!

v" ' ANIMAL ALLlES' -= HUMANE AFFILIATES, INC.

“BULLETIN TO MEMBERS 4421 DENSMORE AVENUE
1 963 STATE 4~8623 ENCINO, CALIFORNIA

 

 

 

In a valiant suffering for others,—- not
in the slothful making of others suffer
for us, did nobleness ever lie.

 

 

 

We have been alerted to the fact that certain so—called humane workers
are using our Title—-— "HUMANE AFFILIATES", Please be informed that
anyone who uses our Title, and request donations or cOntributions, is a
fraud, and we ask that you notify us if or when you receive any notices
or bulletins from any other individual or society using our Title.

URGENT! I TO MEMBERS OF LOS ANGELES.

From time to time I visit the pounds, for various reasons,- to find a
lost pet,— to bail an animal out when a good home is available, and to
investigate conditions of the animals, and the care they are given.

 

The Los Angeles pounds do not have adequate facilities for the animals.
The creatures that are quarantined, are kept in small cages,— no run-
ways,- and I have recently seen three large dogs in one small cage,
having been incarcerated for 15 days. I bailed one of the dogs out
Monday the 5th. Never, in all the years of my humane endeavors, have I
seen more pitiful creatures. One black poodle, matted, his legs almost
crippled because of no exercise,— filthy - lying in his own feces...

The pounds do not have ample or adequate facilities or sufficient em-
ployees to take care of the animals. The number of dogs, cats, puppies,
kittens brought into the pounds daily, is very disheartening. The grown
-cats and dogs can.be killed in the Euthenaire chambers, but the kittens
and puppies should be destroyed by a veterinarian, swiftly and merci—
fully. If we continue to turn out heads the other way, and do nothing
to bring about decent treatment of animals, then we are to blame for the
suffering inflicted on them.

I therefore request every member to write your Councilman, IMMEDIATELY,
- stating above facts,— ask that he bring this issue before the Council
at Large, requesting that money be allocated to the Animal Regulation
Dept., to improve quarters for injured animals, for more kennels and
runways for the OBS quarters, and for more veterinarian needs. Tell

 

 




 

2 0

your Councilman this is far more decent and important than to spend
millions of our taxpayers” money for more parks, more police stations,
(which don‘t do one particle of good), more libraries, sewer maintenw
ance, swimming pools, etc., etc., - all a bunch of nothing compared to
helping poor little sentient beings that are defenseless....they cannot
crawl out of their miseries by themselves. These are our responsibil-
ities.

Also, please write to Mayor Yorty, (a registered letter may reach him).
Tell him unless he takes an interest in our cause to eradicate some of
the miseries now existing in our wicked city, rather than approve of
spending millions of dollars for less important issues, he will defin—
itely not be Mayor at the next election. (This may then expiate his
faults)..

Of course, if the Council would have paid attention to our "resolution"
to curtail the breeding of animals, there would be no need for more
pounds, more expansions, more personnel. But when we submitted our pro—
posal, it has for the last two years been thrown from pillar to post,
until it finally landed in the Taxation & Revenue Committee. Council-
man Hollingsworth was the one who promised he would hold the meeting as
soon as election was over. We waited and waited, and the fact that he
Vconstantly said he was too swamped with other issues, we decided to get
him out of his swivel chair in Council. We succeeded. If your Council-
man will pay no attention to your requests, you may tell him he too will
be removed from his office...

"THEY ARE SLAVES WHO FEAR TO SPEAK FOR THE FALLEN AND THE WEAK."

fLASH: ‘3 ‘ RANDALL BILL-——— #4856. Too ALL MEMBERS.

This bill is sponsored by the Humane Society of the U.N. (HSUS). It is
no different than the "MOulder" bill. It is a "Regulated" vivisection
bill. It is a sham, a farce. '

Exerpts of the Randall Bill:

Section 12 (b)-—~" animals used in any way that would cause pain
shall be anesthetized so as to prevent the animals from feeling pain
during the experiment or procedure, EXCEPT that the COmmissioner may
waive this requirement if he finds anesthesia would frustrate the* pur-

 

pose of the project. In simpler words, if the vivisector doesn' t want
to anesthetize the animal, he has the privilege of butchering the help—
less creature, and stand by watching the suffering of the animal, and

 




any:

gloat over his great feat.

Section lZ-(d)—-"regardless of the nature of any experiment, ani-
mals that would suffer pain or stress as.a result of an experiment,
shall be painlessly killed immediately after the procedure causing pain

or stress is completed," (and I agree) BUT——-(and here's the inconsis-
tency)--—
Section lZ—(e)-—"animals used in surgery or other procedure causing

pain or stress, shall be given pain-relieving care....” In simpler

words: Butcher the animal, with or without anesthesia, and bring the
creature back to a condition where it can be used over and over again
for torture.

I wrote the HSUS, stating, if they would change the bill, stating Spe-
cifically: "Animals MUST BE ANESTHETIZED, regardless of experiments,
and the animal MUST NOT BE PERMITTED TO COME OUT OF THE ANESTHESIA, BUT
BE PAINLESSLY KILLED (so it could not survive to go through the same
ordeal), WE WOULD NOT oppose the Bill. It would then be considered a
bill trying to abolish suffering and cruelty, until such time as we
could abolish vivisection.

If the Randall Bill would pass, it would definitely endanger our ef—
forts to abolish vivisection, and millions of defenseless creatures
would NEEDLESSLY be tortured as they are today.

WRITE YOUR CONGRESSMAN AND SENATORS OPPOSING THE RANDALL BILL. WRITE
THE HSUS, EXPRESSING YOUR OPINION, AND ASK FOR A RECTIFICATION OF THE
BILL, You will then support it. ’

 

 

 

I sent a letter to President Kennedy enclosing a Bill which we have
drafted. I asked for his help. In part: "THERE CAN BE NO PEACE OR
BLESSING OF GOD UNTIL THE VIOLENCE INFLICTED UPON SPEECHLESS CREATURES
IS WIPED OUT." "PLEASE HELP STOP THE GROWTH OF THIS FOUL SMELLING CAN-
CER IN OUR MIDST. STOP SUPPORTING THESE ATROCITIES WITH OUR TAX-MONEY
- UNITED STATES GRANTS," etc. etc. etc. I received a reply from his
Special Assistant as follows: "The President has asked me to thank you
for your letter. Your interest in letting him know of your support of
the legislation you mention is appreciated. You may be assured that
your comments have been fully noted." ‘

 

 




 

4.

VIVISECTION:

If the public comprehended the suffering and slow deaths of animals on
torture tables in labs, there would be a bigger protest raised through—
out America. Why doesn't an enraged mass of citizenry raise its voice
against the acts of phony science, in which animals are burned alive,
baked alive, suffocated, ripped apart while they lie on boards, scream—
ing in pain and suffering—-- NO ANESTHESIA, They are done under a cloak
of secrecy. It's time the public woke up to what's going on right here
in America, already the biggest research (torture) center in the world.

Torture has long travelled hand in hand with superstition and ignorance.
And more and more, as their locked door laboratory outrages become
known, the medical vivisectors of today resemble the medieval witch
doctors...

Cats were used as so—called evidence in witchcraft hearings held in Eng—
land during the sixteenth century. After the trials, it was customary
to hurl cats into blazing fires, or to skin them alive or to crucify
them.

In Shropshire town, a cat was whipped to death on the village green each
Shovetide, and a public sign in the village advertised, "The finest pas—

 

time under the sun is whipping the cat."

 

Well, if the secret yens of present day vivisectors could be exposed for
analysis, they doubtless would reveal that to them "The finest pastime
under the laboratory lamp is torturing an animal."

 

 

The results these modern day torturers claim they gain are about as ed-
ifying and beneficial to humanity as were the burning, skinning and cru—
cifying of cats at England's sixteenth century witchcraft trials.

IF ALL SOCIETIES WOULD BAND TOGETHER IN ONE UNIT TO FIGHT FOR THE CAUSE,
WE WOULD SUCCEED IN RELEASING ALL HELPLESS AND DEFENSELESS CREATURES
FROM THE SLAVERY TO WHICH THEY ARE EXPOSED. But———-

 

WORK PROGRAM #1

We are continuing our spaying program to prevent breeding, so as to cut
off the supply to the pounds and laboratories. We pay half the fee or
all of the fee for those who cannot afford to pay the spaying prices.
This program is costly, but very important.

‘ "1:.




1-:H.‘\'\
31““L‘u9:
3:33.331»:
A I. ,

WORK PROGRAM #2

We feed many strays; pick up litter after litter of kittens, as well as
puppies; rescue animals from abusive owners; run ads for placement of
animals constantly thrown in our laps—-- we do every type of humane
work. Our burden and responsibilities are great and grave. Altho' we
are an anti—vivisection society, we will never turn our backs on the
helpless ones when they need care. (It is indeed heartbreaking to visit
the pounds, where daily hundreds of cats, dogs, kittens and puppies have
to be killed, because of the lack of ordinances to curtail breeding.)
Some of the dogs tremble with fear, sensing their doom of death.

The animal population is increasing tremendously in the Valley. Approx—
imately 88,000 licenses were sold to Valley residents for 1962-63. This
means over $250,000 has been procured by one pound out of the five City
pounds.

Instead of using this money for the benefit of the animals, it goes for
needless balderdash, as previously stated.

WORK PROGRAM #3 JUST A FEWAINCIDENTS..., (I COULD WRITE A BOOK).

A little pekingese was threwn out of a car, wandering around in heat,
with many males attacking her. When I received the call, I rushed over,
— picked up the little orphan,— boarded her until she was over her sea—
son period, and had her spayed. She now has a very good home (through
our ads and efforts).

 

A Dalmation pup was found on the highway, staggering, starved,- skin and
bones. The woman phoned, asking what to do. I drove many miles to pick
it up. I placed "Spotty" in a good boarding kennel, and for a full
month I tried to find a home for him. Some asked me why I do not put
him to sleep. I couldn't... Finally I found a very qualified home for
the little guy. (Board bill - $45.00)

A black poodle was picked up in Panorama City. He has two license tags,
— Abeline and Tulia, Texas. I placed long distance calls, and eventual—
ly I received a reply from the Animal Hospital in Tulia, giving me the
name of the owner, in Slaton, Texas. I again phoned for almost a week,
but no reply.. I also wrote several Special Delivery letters, and fin-
ally on August lst, I received a call from the owner of the dog, in
Texas. I now have the dog in my possession, and had him bathed, and
clipped. (He was in a terrible mess). I am making arrangements to ship
the dog by Continental Airlines. I have to buy a kennel cage,- get a
Health Certificate, and drive "Brandy” to the Airline at l A.M. However,

 




 

6.

I must wait for the owner's reply to my last letter. If he does not
want the little poochie, I shall keep him....

I was called to investigate a cruelty case re a mare and little colt. I
made the long trip and found the colt lying doWn, starved; unable to
stand up,— no food, no Water. ,I purchased a bale of hay and grain, and
every few nights I make the trip to see results. Happy to say, the lit—
tle colt looks better. His little body is improving. I warned the
woman if I do not find food and water in her corral, I shall cite her in-
to court.

I could go on and on. Cruelty cases are on the increase.- Our laws_are
antiquated and inadequate. I find it difficult to cite individuals into
court on charges of cruelty, as it seems unless an animal is more dead
than alive, the City, the Judges, and even Health Inspectors can see no
cruelty...

Let's face facts: When a man can club his four—month old child to death,
and when recently another man put his 17 month old baby under the shower,
scalding him to death, what treatment can you expect some humans to ac—
cord defenseless animals???

If a vivisector can perform medieval atrocities on an animal, he also
performs the same atrocities on helpless little children taken frOm or-
phanages, and senile old people who cannot defend themselves....

WORK PROGRAM #4

I appear on TV programs, as well as Radio broadcasts;quite often I am
interviewed re vivisection. I speak my piece, and "spread the Gospel”
without hesitation. These programs bring far more results in alerting
an uninformed public, than to spend money needlessly for bulletins to
members who are well aware of the atrocities existing. (The recent
postage raise has been a severe blow to us.) ' ‘

Animal Allies - Humane Affiliates (AAHA) sends bulletins only when nec—
essary and informative. Therefore, PLEASE know, we are carrying on an

extensive program re animal welfare work, and we do not intend to cur-

tail any of our activities, regardless of many handicaps.

Animal Allies is the only name in the Valley telephone book under
_"ANIMALS", We therefore are the only society who receives calls for

help, from early morn till midnight. You can therefore understand our
problems, our frustrations, our heartbreaks.

 




 

a ',~ w
are -

7.

We hope to be financially able, THROUGH YOUR SUPPORT, t0 insert large,

vivisection ads in the L,A. Times. Publicity is very important, as it
alerts many average laymen as to the true meaning ei vivisecticn, and
its futility. The cost of the last ad, as you recaii, was over $300.

 

If we had the funds the large Eastern Societies are fortunate in pos—
sessing, we would definitely have a TV or Radio program. However, I
have continually asked that they spend some of their money for a TV
program, which would certainly bring far better results than spending
funds to send fancy magazines and bulletins to their members, but I was
rebuffed.... One head of a Society stated it would do more harm than
good, as the parents would turn off the program if and when the children
would listen to the vivisection issue. CAN YOU BEAT IT???

 

 

We are sending this bulletin to members who have centinued to give us
their kind support,~ unhesitatingly, and generously. Hewever, some of
you have forgotten us since 1955 to 1960. Therefore, after receiving
this bulletin, will you kindly renew your membership, for the sake of
the helpless and defenseless creatures who look to us for protection,
or we will have to remove your names from our membership list. I do
hope you will understand our position...

 

LET US ALL WORK AND PRAY FOR A FUTURE WHERE THERE WILL BE N0 VIVISEC-
TION,- RFCRUELTY. All the suffering work we do for the little crea- A
tures, not a single effort is lost. Nothing is wasted. Everything
counts. It will all add into the final triumph.

”Words, unless accompanied by action, are like seeds without soil —
They serve no fruitful purpose, and bring us only an empty harvest."

L

I REPEAT AN EXERPT FROM THE BIBLE:

QJEENJSFCKDBHJEWAPHE114'TFﬂElLJ_—11?EUKTTAEHVT'CﬂrlAhHNMALﬁi

VSome of His disciples came and told him of a certain Egyptian, a son of
Belial, who taught that it was lawful to torment animals, if their suf—
ferings brought any profit to men.

"And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, they who partake

 




of benefits which are gotten by wronging one of God's
.creatures, cannot be righteous; nor can they touch holy
things, or teach the mysteries of the kingdom, whose hands
are stained with blood.

"If any animal suffer greatly, and if its life be a misery
unto it, or if it be dangerous to you, release it from its
life quickly, and with as little pain as you can. Send it
forth in love and mercy, but torment it not, and God the
Father-MOther will show mercy unto you, as he has shown
mercy unto those given into your hands.

"And whatsoever ye do unto the least of these my children,
ye do it unto me. For I am in them and they are in

Yea, I am in all creatures and all creatures are in me.

In all their joys I rejoice, and in all their afflictions
I am afflicted. Wherefore I say unto you; Be ye kind one

to another, and to all the creatures of God."
__~_____________._~*~__

 

Humanely,

Sally . Moody,:EEZE%::;::E;Z/l

 




NINETY-FOUR

The

 

 

CRUELTY CANNOT BE REGULATED

Six Bills purporting to regulate and restrict
vivisection have been introduced in Congress,
two in the Senate and four in the House of
Representatives. ‘

HR-4620, sponsored by Representative Ash-
ley of Ohio, is a companion to Senate Bill S—533,
sponsored by Senators Clark of Pennsylvania
and Neuberger of Oregon. These Bills are
supported by Christine Stevens of the Animal
Welfare Institute of New York.

The Humane Society of the United States
supports HR-4856 sponsored by Representative
Randall of Missouri.

Bill S-104l is sponsored by Senator Ran—
dolph of West Virginia; HR—4840 by Repre—
sentative John Fogerty of Rhode Island, and
HR—4843 by Representative Roberts of Ala—

bama.

All Bills endorse the vivisectio-n of vertebrae
animals; the use of anesthesia andmeans of de—
stroying the animal after the experiment is at
the discretion of the vivisector.

Well—intentioned Bills are fair game for the
Congressional Committees who rewrite them be—
fore reporting Bills out on the calendar for
legislative consideration. These Committees
have rewritten Bills so that it is impossible to
recognize them. In the instance of regulating
vivisection, we can expect the worst.

All Bills except S-533 fail to appropriate
funds to set up and enforce the Act. This Bill
authorizes a sum of not more than $500,000.
annually to carry out the provisions of the Act.
Nearly 10,000 laboratories throughout the
United States would be affected by the passage
of such a law. A half million dollars is not
sufﬁcient to set up the machinery, much less
enforce the law. Ten million dollars annually
would be a conservative ﬁgure. The continuous
surveillance and inspection of the laboratories
would cost the greater portion of the above
sum. A law without teeth belies its proclaimed
intent and purpose.

Regulatory and restrictive legislation, with no

A‘-V———————-=

provision for supervisory control is meaning-
less. It gives a free hand to the vivisectors,
much as they now have and the public is de—
ceived into believing that a wrong has been
corrected.

Eighty—seven years ago, England enacted a
Regulation Animal Law, and last year over
four million animals were brutally vivisected,
90% without anesthesia. England has only
536 licensed laboratories, we have about 10,000.

The wrong will truly be righted when the
vast majority of the peOple are made cognizant
of the cruelty and futility of vivisection.

Our program of education is bringing the
facts to the public as forcefully as all our re-
sources will command. When the broad mass
of the people are fully enlightened, we will call
for the total abolition of vivisection.

Until that time do not be fooled by the pallia—
tives of the vivisectors’ propaganda.

 

SHIPMENT OF DOG FOOD
DISTRIBUTED

Four tons of Friskies Dog Food, the gift of
the American Anti-Vivisection Society of Phila-

delphia, is in shipment via parcel post to Fair-

banks, for distribution to 25 Alaskan villages,
to help feed hungry sled dogs.

Arlene Darling, well—known local artist, with
the aid of Mr. Owen B. Hunt, President of
the American Anti—Vivisection Society, re-
organized the Alaskan Humane Sociey in Fair—
banks. As Secretary of the AHS, Mrs. Darling
gave unsparingly of her time, cooperating with
local jobbers and the Fairbanks postmaster in
addressing and preparing the food for shipment.

While in Alaska last summer, Mr. Hunt
helped organize the Gastineau Humane Society
in Juneau.

Mr. Hunt also visited the native village of
Minto. There he found that the entire village
had been inundated by ﬂood waters due to re-
cent rains. The ﬁsh wheels had been washed

 




NINETY-TH REE

 

T h e A - V
Some were promptly killed at the end of the
2-hour stress; others endured for 4 hours. These
animals were ananesthetized. (Richard W.
Schayer, Merck Institute for Therapeutic Re-
search, Rahway, New Jersey.) Every little
“laboratory” must feature experiments. Vivi—
section is so so “scientiﬁc” ! (American Journal

of Physiology, September 1962.)

* * >l< >1< *

)3

“Lung Reimplantation in the Dog. Twenty
dogs were used, and we quote technical de-
scription of the experiment as follows: “The

technique consisted of dissection of the hilum'

and isolation of the bronchovascular pedicle.
Heparin 3 mg. was injected into the pulmonary
artery followed in one second by occlusion of
the artery with Pott’s ductus clamps, and oc-
clusion of the pulmonary veins with Satinsky
clamps, preserving a small cuff of atrium. The
artery and atrium were divided between the
clamps and the bronchus was divided. The
atrial and then the arterial anastomoses were
carried out using continuous 5—0 silk with inti—
mal approximation. The bronchial anastomosis
was done last with continuous 3—0 silk. Only 8
of the 20 animals survived the operative pro-
cedure. Three dogs developed thrombosis of
the pulmonary veins and pneumonitis and died,
and 4 dogs developed a hemorrhagic necrosis
with no visible evidence of thrombosis and died
from 2 to 8 days following operation. This
necrosis closely resembled the changes ascribed
by others to tissue incompatibility after homo—
transplantation.” Hilum: Spot where vessels
and nerves enter an organ. Anastomosis: Con-
nection of 2 vessels or organs. Thrombosis:
Blood clot. Necrosis: Gangrene. Homotrans-
plantation: Graft from another animal. (lama,
November 4, 1961.

 

GREEDY DRUG COMPANIES "
WANT ANOTHER THALIDOMIDE
In his column May 8, 1963, Drew Pearson
reports an attempt on the part of the powerful
drug companies to deluge the Federal Drug
Administration with a paper barrage in an

effort to bypass the new regulations under the
Kefauver Drug Act.

This Act requires all Drug Companies to
advise the FDA before June 8th about all ex-
periments being made on human beings. Dr.
Frances Kelsey, the doctor who, banned Tha-
lidomide, is in charge of the bureau to handle
this work. Pearson reports her ofﬁce is located
in a temporary war building, and her only as-
sistants are two borrowed chemists and a doctor
from another division.

The plan apparently agreed upon by many of
the Drug Companies is to snow under the FDA
with paper work. Documents detailing some
2,500 experiments will be ﬁle-d in triplicate.
If she had the entire staff of the Bureau of
Medicine at her disposal it would take forty
working days to make just a cursory inspection
of the papers, Dr. Kelsey estimates. With this
avalanche of paper work, it will not be possible
for the FDA to check properly on the danger-
ous qualities of some drugs.

There is a real possibility that another medical
disaster is likely to occur.

Questions to be answered are:

1. Why are the Drug Companies so anxious
to destroy a department of government set up
by the United States Congress to protect the
people against death and disease from untested
drugs?

2. Were the proﬁts from the sale of Tha—
lidomide that left 15,000 crippled children in its
wake of such a magnitude that some Drug
Companies are now attempting to repeat the
performance? ‘ i

3. Why is} Dr. Kelsey’s division of the FDA
so grossly understaffed when it so gravely con-
cerns the health and welfare of our people?

We urge our readers to clip this article and
mail it to your Congressman. Also write to your
two Senators and ask them for a reply.

>1: >z< * * a:

I believe vivisection overwhelmingly on the whole,
has misdirected research, misled research workers, and,
by absorbing energy, money, intellect and time in the
pursuit of frequently barren investigation, has incal—
culably delayed and impeded medical progress.

—Dr. G. F. Walker
(Member, Royal College of Physicians,
England)

 




. ‘ :7

“a :1. 't'_.'- Iﬁ ‘1 3..“ -‘ If.» if}. , é
1" ., ‘ ,1, ‘ “LI . :1_ :' _"1 4'; ‘ x
. - g .r .y

I “‘x

'.
”51‘;
‘v
V.

"‘THEMNK‘ﬁONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

. 9‘7" t. . . 4.

1346 CONNECTICUT AVENUE. N. W. 0 WASHINGTON 6. D. C.

March 7, 1963

Mrs. S. J. Glaab

c/o Holly Haven Nursery

397 North Little East Neck Road
'West Babylon, L.I., N.Y.

Dear Mrs. Glaab,

I am sorry to learn you.have been backing the Clark-Neuberger bill. It
is modeled after, but even weaker than, the hill introduced last year by the
same sponsors. Through our publications last year, we made clear that we did
not support that bill. Nor did we support one introduced two years ago at the
request of the same society.

Since you ass our advice, I would recommend that you not urge further
support for the bill. It isn‘t necessary to write letters withdrawing your
support. If there appears to be any possibility that the bill may be passed,
we will alert you and all of our members, suggesting that you then write to
your Senators and Representatives.

‘We hope that an effective bill will be introduced in this session of
Congress.

Sincerely yours,

MLW

Helen E. JOnes
Executive Director

DIRECTORS

RT. REV. MSGR. LEROY E. MCWILLIAMS. PRESIDENT. NORTH ARLINGTON. N. J. % REV. AMBROSE AGIUS. O.S.B.. VICE-PRESIDENT.
NEWARK. N. J. ”$53 EDWARD M. BOSTICK. TREASURER. FALLS CHURCH. VA. aﬁ THERESE A. OLSON. SECRETARY.
HYATTSVILLE. MD. % PROF. ERNEST H. BRANDL. NOTRE DAME. IND. @ RAPHAEL BROWN. WASHINGTON. D. C.
FRANCES COLEMAN. NEW YORK. N. Y. @ HARRIET KIRBY. NEW YORK. N. Y. ® WILLIAM A. NEACEY. CHEVY CHASE. MD.

 




NEW JERSEY ANTI ~VIVISECTION SOCIETY, INC .
APRIL - MAY 1963

67 Park Street P.O. Box 91
Tenafly, N. J. Tenafly, N. J.

’"From.street, from.cage and from.kennel, from jungle and stall, the wail of my
tortured kin proclaims the sin, Of the mighty against the frail. .For he who .
‘would trample KINDNESS and MERCY into the dust — he has missed the trail, and his
quest will fail: He is not the guide to trust."

The Voice Of The Voiceless.

Our next meeting will be Saturday may ll, 2 P.M; Hotel Plaza., Journal
Square, Jersey City, N.J. We hope to see as many as possible. The animals need
you but cannot ask. One week of the year for them to appeal their case. The rest
of the time they are tortured and neglected. Science with all their knowledge
find them indispensable. Without them.the numberless laboratories would have to

close up shop and the chemical people fail, yet under their hands animals are
treated the worst. . m

‘ ”wreak
//// 32E G‘” L A T I O N . 1 . .

//// H.Rl #856, March 13, 1963. Introduced by Rep. Randall, Committee on aha
, Interstate and.Foreign Affairs. Our comment:- a strange committee in which to be
placed. .

1. "To provide humane treatment of animals used in experiment and research
by recipients of Grants from.the Government...Enacted by the Senate and the House
of Representatives of the U S A.....

2. A.United States policy that animals used in experiments, tests, the
teaching of scientific methods and techniques, and the production of medical and
pharmaceutical.materials, shall be spared avoidable pain etc....."

OUR COMMENT— The word "avoidable_pain" technically this allows for pain,
stress, discomfort and fear that cannot be "avoided" if certain experiments are

carried out thus we find our first subtle evasion, and pain will be tolerated-if
necessary.

3. "An Agency established in the Department of Justice of the U.S. Gov. for
Laboratory Animal Control. Head of this Agency to be a Commissioner who shall
be appointed by the President of the United States, with the approval of the
Senate for a period of 5 years or until such time as he shall resign or be impeached.
... To be eligible for the appointment a candidate must hare been admitted to
practice LAW in the Supreme Court of the United States."

OUR COMMENT- Note no knowledge of animals or vivisection is necessary
for the power that will control animal suffering in the United States, He is
only required to be a lawyerﬁ This is practically identical with the 1961
Moulder bill that was condemned in February of 1961. We do not know why the
Senate, the President and the Justice Department are given the right to determine
.unquestionably What should or should not be carried on in experimental laboratories
or how they are to determine how much pain an animal can stand. There are as many
animals subject to experiment outside of the military department as in it. If the

 




APRIL-MAY Bulletin - 1963 Page 2.

Commissioner does not measure up to standard or even doesn‘t like animals he still
has five years to his credit as well as being firmly established until he wants to
' leave . V

A. "Animals to be anesthetized so as to prevent pain EXCEPT that the Com-
missioner may waive this requirement for a specific project...."

5. "Animals that would suffer prolonged pain or stress as a result of an
'experiment shall be painlessly killed immediately...."

OUR COMMENT- After prolonged pain and stress in any vivisection laboratory
the animal would be dead without this thoughtful gesture on the part of united
States Policy.

 

6.- "Animals shall receive food and water adequate to maintain health.....

'1

_ 7. "Premises shall provide comfortable resting places etc.....

8- "No unanesthetized animal shall be burned, scalded or subjected to major
surgery or to any similarly acutely painful procedure...."

OUR.COMMENT~ What about the experiments that necessitate STARVINGZ
THIRST! we repeat again for anesthesia given to animals, "Animals to be
aneSthetized so as to prevent pain EXCEPT that the Commissioner may waive this
requirement for a specific project." we do not see any definite provision for
the safety of the animal thus far.

 

9. "Laboratories must agree in writing to allow inspection by authorized
representatives of the Commissioner and law enforcement officers of the State..."

OUR COMMENT- thing that all laboratories must have complied with all
requirements of the UQS. Government and that there is little or no restriction
regarding experimentation and that most experimentors have "qualified to.this.
Animal Control Agency before being admitted to_said laboratories and that the
student or seasoned vivisector is busy with his or her own cruel project and
already careless of the pain they are inflicting, we wonder who among them.would
_ put in a complaint!!

 

In the bill HRth856,- "the word LABORATORY shall mean any school,
institution, organization, group, corporation, partnership or person that uses
or intends to use animals in research, tests, experiments, teaching or the
production of materials."

.OUR COMMENT- Read this over well. According to this wording, and it is
vertabim from the bill, the Government intends to CONTROL almost every instrument
of vivisection in the country. If they mean otherwise we will be pleased to be
informed! Gov. grants cover a lot of territory.

 

Assuming the law outside the government can be called in, according to
the bill, for perhaps schools or corporations etc., we cannot see the Government
interfering with any experimental project for it reads,- "and in the case of an
organization, institutiOn, school, or corporation, shall also be certified by
the chief executive officer of the organization, inatitution, school, or
corporation." By this we are to assume they have already passed the "acid" test
of entry to the hallowed ACTS of Gov. requirements. A.father usually hesitates
to punish his own child.

 




APRIL-MAY Bulletin - 1963 Page 3.

And lastly - "If any law-enforcement agency of any State or any
INCORPORATED HUMANE SOCIETY, shall allege to the Commissioner that any lab. or
any helder of a letter of qualification to use animals in research has violated
this ACT..... the Commissioner shall within 90 days conduct a public hearing to
determine the merits of the allegation and.make a public and formal finding...."

-"Lists of all certificates of compliance with this ACT and
letters of qualification granted to individuals, and the applications therefore,
and'all projects plans and annual reports required by this Act, shall be made
available by the Commissioner for public inspection and.study EXCEPT When the
records of specific projects are certified by appropriate authorities to involve
the military security of the United States."

OUR.COMMENT- According to the words of the BlLL, regardless of the
cruelty and torture inflicted, if it is for "military security of the United
States”- the findings would not be made nor perhaps any records of the cruelty
be known to the public - and we cannot imagine public records being displayed
in any event. the the grace of three months given to the one or ones who have
been accused of extreme cruelty. In that time all "accusations" could be-cleared
to the satisfaction of all except the peor pitiful victim.0f Governmental '
approved butchery.

 

 

 

If this bill is passed and becomes a LAW, this country will probably be one of
the first to go down as one having legalized, governmental control of all vivi-
section by government grant in the Ebuntry. Note that the Senate, the President
and Justice Department have complete control. ’We leave this to your own honest
opinions. we cannot accept this bill as it reads.

 

‘ The REGULATION bills otherwise are H.R. h8h0, by Rep. Fogarty. This
bill declares "only animals of uniformly high quality are essential to research."

"Humane handling a moral necessity of

 

a civilized society."

 

"Surgeon General shall formulate
standards of handling and care of animals by consultation with labs. Such
findings made public 180 days AFTER date of enactment Of this ACT. Thirty days
more given for final requirements."

[We have not been informed of the "standards" to be formulated as to
vivisection and degrees of pain to be suffered as,- "Such.standards first
established under this section shall be prescribed and published not later than
the one hundred and eightieth day after the date of enactment of this ACTK})

 

BILl.H.R. #BAQ, Mr. Reberts of Alabama. Identical bill as the above hBhO. You
cannot say they are anything LESS than persistent.

 

 

BILL s. loul, Mr. Randolph. March 7, 1963. Committee on Labor and Public
Welfare. H

"That Congress hereby finds that the degree of pain that an animal should be
permitted to suffer in the case of any particular research, experiment, testing

or training in which such animal is used CANNOT BE REDUCED TO AN'EXACT WRITTEN
FORMULA; that there are cases in which pain to some degree must be suffered by
animals as a necessary concomitant of the research.... and such pain should be
allowed if in the judgment of qualified scientific opinion, the significance

of the research...would seem.necessary, and that the...degree of pain necessary

in any case should NOT be solely the responsibility of the individual investigator.

 




APRIL-MAY Bulletin — 1963 Page A.

OUR COMMENT- In Congress capable of judging the pain to be endured by i
the helpless pitiful lab. animal?

"Animals to be rendered incapable of perceiving pain EXCEPT...if it would defeat
or interfere with the objective of experiment..."

OUR COMMENT- We need not go further with this bill. It speaks for
itself.

BILL H.R. h629e Representative AShley introduced the following referred to
Committee on Interstate and foreign Commerce.

"All animals used in any experiment which would result in pain shall be
anesthetized....EXCEPT anesthesia would frustrate the object of the experiment.“

"Animals which are suffering severe and prolonged pain shall be painlessly killed
UNLESS a longer period during which animals must be kept alive for essential
purposes. ."

"Animals which are seriously injured as a result of the experiment shall be
killed immediately upon conclusion of the operation inflicting the injury."

 

OUR COMMENT— We can hope the animal would be mercifully DEAD before
the final coup de grace. The thought of keeping these mortally injured animals
alive for the sake of final analysis is beyond human conception. Think well
what your money is doing when it goes into DRIVES and any channel that eventually
settles in Government Research Grants.

SLAUGHTER BILL

 

Will you please do all you can to help this bill OUT OF COMMITTEE. The
legislative body of the state will not move unless enough interest is shown and
this CAN BE DONE BY LETTERS to your Assemblyman, the Chairman and members of the
following committee:

 

 

Chairman - Hon. Samuel Biber, 6h Hamilton St., Paterson

Members - Hon. David M. Madnelbaum, 1'? Academy St., Newark
V Hon. William V. Musto, 1000 Hudson Blvd., Union City
' Hon. Joseph M. Keegan, 663 Main St., Passaic
Hon. Joseph C. Doren, 216 N. Washington Ave.,
Dunnellen
Hon. Alfred N. Beadleston, 12 Broad St., Red Bank
Hon. Carmine F. Savino, 251 Ridge Road, Lyndhurst

We should not hesitate to help them when we don't hesitate to include
them.in our meals! A few words from everyone reading this and from the friends
and organizations you might be able to_contact could mean the difference between
animals being humanely slaughtered or brutally slain. They cannot ask you to
do this, but it is good medicine for ones conscience.

 




APRIL4MKY Bulletin - 1963

CONSERVATION

 

Senate bill S.-23§. If this bill is passed and'becomes law, the harmless
mourning dove will be put on the game list and be a prime target for next hunting
season. For those who do not know the value of birds, this pretty creature with
its delicate coloring of mauve and slightly pink under coloring is a fine weed-
seed eater and if left to propagate, would do a much.better jdb of killing weeds
than expensive and chemical poisonous weed killers. It is inoffensive and will
feed near the house if not frightened away. It is not as large as a pigeon but
cannot get off the ground with the speed of much smaller'birds. A swift
puzzling flyer once in the air When pursued. With the amount of game and
animals abounding everywhere (and when not "abounding" the Gov. sees to it the
area is restocked) we hope the gentle dove will be spared the fate of most of
them in many states.

 

Please write your state Senator to vote against 3—238, and spare the
lives of some of Nature’s most valuable helpers.

 

FOLIO

Mbny by now have submitted to the sabin Oral'Vaccine, promising NOT to
be a germ.spreader. Then are we to assume the Salk vaccine was? ‘We have main-
tained this in earlier bulletins and still DO. The sabin Agencies must be

expecting trouble in the future or they would not hare distributed freely cards
1!

for parents to sign granting permission unto the Tenafl sabin Vaccine Comp
mittee and physicians to feed (child‘s name; with Sabin‘Vaccine against polio-
myelitis. I absolve the above mentioned parties of any liability for any injury,
pain or suffering which may be endured as a result of suCh feeding."

The very nature of THAT request should have been enough to give every
parent food for much serious thought. One cannot imagine a kind loving parent
willingly and without question subjecting their children to such a questionable
procedure.

DRUGS

Assembly Bill A~527, Drug Safety Law. The greatest safety the drug
companies can give the public is to take the killer drugs off the market. There
is no safety in a dangerous drug. It is either "dangerous" to the one taking it
or to the one who takes it by mistake. We will go into that bill in a future
bulletin.

There are many demands on ones finances today. Some are necessary and
some are unfair. I do not think many organizations delight in asking for aid
but bills must be met, postage paid and requests filled if it is to continue as
an organization. By paying your dues we try to meet these expenses. We are
neutering animals as fast as it is possible within a'budget and will continue
to do so with your aid.

==== REWEWBER.KINDNESS TO ANIMAL WEEK MAY 5 - ll ====

 

 




1158 a: CW113 Bu helm:
2.3 taste ‘1wa
wgmdalﬁ 31’ 11%8g

Thar: ye: f: 11:15: letthre 1:1: 1:32: 1:111:11: the 11:11:: :hhmehte 341131: 1:11:11:
391“” tn: :11: 31::- 3.53:: m t: mtm it? $1111: with: you 1:: 1
:13th the piatwest, I :1: :13: to mm :31! 1:91:11: ya: 13:: :11 th: affert: :1:
1:11:10. Tbs: are 11:11::hiht111... . ‘

111:: t: 2111::21 1h: mint: that n: 11:11:: in :1 1:111:21: 1:111:11. 111:1’14, the
11:11:: 11:11:11.: 1:: 1:: 11:11:11: 16:31:11: 1:: 1:: :1::::ht:: 1:: 113;: :13 1:121:24.
'51! Menu: 31112131111111 1:11:11: Eh: :1: it 1.: 12:15: :1h:t:g:h (11:11::
me: 4:: W 1:15:11: 1:11:11: 1:: 1:11:23, :1::::: 1:: 1:: 11:11,) 11:11::
W15, I 1:111: :11: 111:“: 1:11 :1: :11: 11:11:11: 5 hmhmg :11: 1311:”: h: 2
WWti‘V: 39:: :11}. 13:11: mrfwtm‘x, at th: :1: :1: 11111112111: :11 ‘12:: 15:: 21:13,}:
perfume: : 1:111:21: 31:: bringing :1“: :1: 2:: ":11: 1:11:11 1:11:41»: :1? 1:51:11: the
Glimnattm: e1? 11:: 11:11:: :hﬁeritg: a: e : 11:1; 1: :1::::ht::h:he:: .2. 11:21.: :i: :1: *1:
new 1:11:11: 3:: ’1: mm 1:11:11 t: h: 11:11:, 11:11:- 11 1:111": 15:: 1:11:11: 11. 5:511:11“: 1:1”. ~1
116:“: '1 w: . 11:11::1111-hm‘1 :11: thht 11:: 1:12:11": 1:: 11:15:11.: 2:11.111. 1:11:13: 1: t’::1 :5:
Md «:1: that 11:13:: 1:: 1.1th 1115111113 1:: 1:: 11:11:11}: 1.. '

131191116111: :1: :5 11:11}. 1:211:th 51:11:: :11: 1:11;, 11:51:: : 2 ', 1:111:21 gm: 11:11::1: 11::
11:11.6: 11:12:11: 1:111:12: :11: 1110141111111: 1111:: 1.”:‘:1:ti:: 115:: (WWhﬂm‘h 1:111:11,
I W‘ﬂé £115 111:: 11111351, :1. mm: 11111113 111113111}: :31” 11161355 111111111 119?:1: 37* 3:“:11m t9
* '1 W Amm'iblﬁ {11111-1 1:11: in 1:1: :“1'131'1113 121:: t thw 1111:: 11:: 1:11:11. @1111: @1111 be
13331961: hut 51117121“ 1313131191» 1:: 1 1mm: 11:3 1-“: 3.21:: 1111:91111 1:: 1:11:11: 15:11:: in 1:113: 1111::
“W 133-133”: 119W, mfhrtumt: ;- , ‘11:: 1:11:11: 11:11:: 1.1:: t it: :2 1:11:11: :111:::
W 13111:: 01:1 “12’: 11:: t h: 11:11. 1111:: 1:: met 11:11:: arm-:1? , 4 1:21:21. 11:13::tm: :1: 1:11:11,
am that 1:: 1:11:11“ :1: Mgﬂﬂ, 131:: :1: 1:11: that the latte: :11: h: 1:th :11:-
lll: If - :11: 1931‘? 11:11:11: 3.1:: 1:: it 12:11:: ihhwhth: 1:21.11: 1: ch: 1:1: 3:70;. 1: 5.:
aweuntwle t: 111:: Mmtswg :1: the h:1:::t::y t: 1111:11111111: t: magma. 1::
will rem ~. 4 be: 111:: 1:13:10: 1:111:11: 1:111: '11:: hm 31:11:62,131: 1:: 1m: " ‘ a mum , ~ ‘
“’th t: :2: :2:- ‘ 1:: it: 1‘: .mﬁrmh 31:1: 333', it ehelm: 1: 11:11,: :1” ‘11:: 1:515: 1131::
1 t 1:: 1:21:12: 1:: rhgzmw part :1 hi: 4:161:11: :11 11:11::th: :meeh :1: 1 mm:

a“: :39:th that. W :fftam have: private 1:31: 11:11:: :1: :5 ':.:=:::*::13
Mamm, If 1123:? 1:11:11, what «3:121: :2 em 11: :Wt 11:? 11% i -

in 3m x a . . : WW: I v Wt WW
W 9pm“ ? an :1 th: 1mm: “ :1 18?“: 11:11:: 1:: 11:11:31: with the
1.111de affect it 1:: in 1:th :melty and enmwmm 1mm: :meidemtim
far WW8}. mimala. If ye: 31:13 11:11:11 2:: many 1:12:15.“ :3. I. 21:11:“ :5: W ,
Unit: :mm :25: mm ecu-1mm 1:111th with that in 311111111113: I 1: 111111111931
certain w: teal: h: :uptgmrth: 11.1%. 193?:

 




“2*

Wis 11: mum is siss is, s5 yam pat-s it, ”is-isms. is. W am stasis W in 699106"
its ssuli is 1’th is imam 8‘5 ysrs is" s: was with this bis-i last is far in
waissss ks was warm fess ism srsisstsm sf“ s-,mmmgs1' missus 12 iii British
Mt iii asst wrists ﬁshsrs stasis sit is my mi that tits s rm which 1%

m isms ms itiiiﬁh‘ mi. 193? . ism sass stasis mi wisest sass-isms swig if the
fissi wan isss is smisi ssh If W sis iii sass sash waif, I is not
Wm issi sis sssld hiss is siisis sis is. his is iii ipmitim is Wm 1%
mi- ssssici ii iii sidusps‘sss.

Gsssswsisss; is" mini. sisssi s: sisssssisr iii: 2 s smiths? ii?” iii is sass missihsaia,
this is ssi sis sssi is as sisss miss this mmisisns sf Elsi-s 3.93? s iii smjssiabslm
ssssi is ssissisiss is sass ssswsisssr isfsss is iss as If his sssssss is is smsssssssﬂy
t'. 1 sis ii is ssii sssss sms swims ' summing, ins isswtsry is: is m
sis sisi. iii-is is sis mam sisssby sins}. risssis sis is ssssirslisis It is
ism miss my iii as s issss is M siis is fimi si‘iss yssss if stasis if this ssssilixzs
hiss iEmsis sisss sis sssssiiy is sips ifissss siisss sass. is Wessisd.

isss s iisi siisisssii sis sis izi'siy Willi-é “is-s. sis hiss, but is sssisrs gmiﬁhw is gains
is, is fists iii sis sssisiiss ssis siii‘issiisrs inwsiim sills 255 sad militias if
sill—sis is sassssssis. ii is sssi si‘ iss- ssssiiss.

‘i’hsss s sis isms-is is smsi is sis sisssi is -~ssssi- iii as si ssssssis ii? sis: Mr
ssiississ iisi Bssssisry iii“? is sss sissssssgsis . LI hips. this sisss sis ism
ﬁlm‘i isisiiis's éssissis s iii isi isms ii ssi.

i113. ssssi ssisiss ,.

Sinssssm,

 




J;

.‘.
"‘ {‘5 [.73
..... 5.3. \J \J

l~1

~u—a
s 11{
. a .
- .‘.

”x n r‘“ v
,I ”'1. .1 .
j. .., 4.

”T

.J

(:1.

O
.95

T
I

z;
4

31C

.3

C) '.
11‘. .L

’1

d

110

«f

f
\

:3TT\
"5 (.‘. c: (:3
1. \J \J \..I

v.“

r'] “r",

’I

CﬂeﬁS.

Ci :. .

«u
r». 3..“ Ta- J
. L J
0})

a.

.‘
ﬂu
U41. ‘

v1.

V“

I...

k.- '.

rs

..
I
1.

;H3

)

. LJ

-.J \J

\

C31.

1’: ,"ﬁ " '3":
.J. \x 9%.; m.

”In”. (.1
' J ‘1

n

'1

f ‘ u

"1

7".

3.. 1'

ill

YO“

1 .1
.41.

.,

knew

w~~

~

‘t‘ "W (.3
I .i. 3;“;

W U
I

r
l
I

«

315%.

m

;e

C? m
x3].c‘

". j ;'
.
V-

n
‘. "‘
’ u

\

?i

I

J
)

C

0.

1')

_r
C

I

i

"S
.. J.

14.11. 7

4
3.

who

, r

\

‘9

thigl

/

7.
3..

.1. "z-
u .‘ 1

1’.
Li. '1

C 1*:
' ‘~ ‘ ~ r ‘9': ".3 r:
1 57.11"} -L. L .1. .1. V) (l

.4...
U

(I
all.

h
., ‘
7". '1 .
.1 LA. _'_,. a.

amt

‘ L.
- x "g *. Q
-- LJ "'

_G
* .
L—-‘~ M ‘-

"I“

1 (31°

Fix“. T12"; .
3 1 C1 .3. .. '...(.

l i.

9“ T
.L .I

(31?

EEK

* a r
.L K1 41K.

7. .
it

”.3 ‘ ‘
,3

w
x.

L‘

O ".'.1 C G 0 T1

YVII

_. J.
-1
r

LEV

Q

K7631?

f)

C)Xf€>I‘I

‘M3

; {F

| an (.

)..

17'"
w

J

1

‘D
“a
J .‘.-.1—

-.
y
k4

x 1‘
L...)
V

}wwr

(
I.
k

‘1‘
»1
..W

m». V}
r - .
' U. .L L

.1,
L2

..\ .r
r . . . . I, i .
, ‘ _ _ \
Jquu" b. ”A.

..N M
;lur :IRJ

M

’7‘ .
QkJ.

(.. 7.1 n

,I

I
LJ 1.1.1. 5;". L

*1
l4“-

‘ C.“ 4" w
.

r”) rﬁ

1,.
V

‘ v
...’

I

up}. 1.

". 3
*J...‘_

‘\ (2 1:1
" \x‘ h.)

3F?“

.‘f‘. H
J.

i
.’.

’r)

3

v". \
‘-., ‘

f‘i
;

i
L.

r3 v;- w "'r
O (1.1. Ca

1 "3,
Lk/ A.

‘ v:

.’. ‘\

k.)..L .. \J

.‘

. “Kai": r
.1. ‘1 '1».

t

r!
h.)

u

l

T
\-4\ .4.

"a (‘3
x}

T.
.7...

L. J
{.1 L!

{\74
\Jdi-

14
~

I

.L.
- !
_ . C4 U \1

Solu.

L“

3...»!

~r J” v: ‘
J .L

«r -‘
I

1‘)
VA‘.‘ .‘.

S
\

4.. .‘.],

.L.
LI

.
x

l.‘, /'\ ~;r;~"‘
: . k" ..

\._.I

i

'1‘...-“\ :1 3/3
,.._. VJ: UTA. ;.. i.

(is
v

s!}

LLEK‘

VI
.‘.“. ,
-’L..L.‘.c"

«Km

 




:2 - ~. L :2:
(9. LJ L15.) {1‘3 U.
L. L. .‘ .1

..:. 3 C1: C2.

<le (lb.

.4-1

)1gice

'tC)
Also

mzr.)

-C! .J \J

1:;j:)1)1’*'2 32:“) 2’1"“

4.4.14. .4

{-1 Fl C):

r .r . _.
LL C C U11 ‘21.":

4““ r, .... L, .
.3. L) J31”! if?

-...
f

.1.

”(Li L3? C
went
. ,.. ',-_. 1’ ("x ,—»J. "'
{..:)1?11:1:).:;1c.

. r: .P
h ‘3‘ C1. .4.

Q
"" 6.1 (‘l "‘ 3
LLJU Lib

. 7., '1 '..
$403; ﬁne cuyba
031v have
U

‘l
"' :x .‘3 “'7‘
LJL1

(" i "\
(1.3- J.

G
if? ”2 YW“. (3
\ k...) 4. “Lu u

U -_ :
‘1 “2 ‘ 37*- .r': 1
)1) -1... (Jr .1). \LC) £3

.3. L 1C).

1:- C)... ""1

0/ '30}?

4«r

LC) 1.1

of tWS animals

r) 2’“: :1 rx “(3 1:: ‘34:. ij
‘" (ALLCL L1,... '1'» .:..~ ..L ...J_

T

In !. 1

Q
L.)

11
LJ"

23:7. .1

A. 1*:

2:11;“ C) .1: OG}
1.33:“.3‘4‘: *1" Lt he
.ps; “

LLLCS

, -1-
l

N,
2J

the?

—Ln'9
IT}! 531;:- m. In
Lsi.&.:..l)¢ VJ

LIJLLQ'

C-
‘ L.

'2 {x

::L».)
f r' .le

C C“ .31 . " 2

(ILLLV \J -3.

. “ “‘ .3
x 3m

0.2..
7 LI

-w

88:
thﬁ

a C“nnl t0 file of
whotostatic
If ﬁnu kwow
, “5.? .731») . 1 (‘3
, wil7L

1’. -.
:)a:L:a.

:60

re

-, \ 2 . -11-
lOCJC'L‘J/O t=i.3

:"2'1 m .3 .T‘
.10 C c: .1. U.
. LL."- .. "a O ":

 




ANIMAL ALLIES, INC.

16605 Oldham Street
Encino, Calif.

URGENT! IMPORTANT!

TO ALL LOS ANGELES MEMBERS:

 

 

 

‘As you all doubtless know, we have been working frantically for years
to curtail breeding of dogs and cats, to save them from suffering and
death, and from landing in vivisection laboratories for torture.

We have been vilified, scoffed at and ridiculed by selfish, heartless
individuals who think only of the "fast buck" they can make by selling
a puppy or kitty.

When I appeared before the Council time and time again, asking that they
vote favorably on our "resolution", I was rebuked by Councilman Navarro
who stated: "Mrs. Moody, you should not try to interfere with nature

by spaying animals.“ '

Another Councilman stated: “Mrs. Moody, if you spay animals, there
won't be a dog or cat left in our City."

How unintelligent can some of our legislators be??? Now you can under-
stand why I often call them “STUFFED SHIRTED STUPIDS". Do they not
realize abandoned animals die of injuries, starvation, are poisoned,
killed, tortured, a all because of surplus breeding?

NOW THEN: On February 8th, at 2 P,M., hearing was held in Council
Chambers, City Hall, regarding the increase of license fees for dogs.

I appeared before the Committee and spoke my piece. I said we would not
go along with their proposal, UNLESS THEY TAXED AN UNSPAYED DOG OR CAT
WITH NOT LESS THAN $10.00 A YEAR. gThe miserable problems can be solved
only by spaying female dogs and cats, as you well know.)

 

I finally convinced the Committee that this proposition would increase
the revenue for the City (which they are trying to do), would reduce

mass murder of the little creatures, and would bring about peace of mind
and contentment to the citizens of our city who are constantly beset

with the barking and whining of poor animals tied out in the rain and
cold all night longwemthe miaowing and screaming of catSmw-little kittens
that are abandoned in alleys, freeways, garbage canSmm-and this proposal
would help humanitarians who are doing the cityvs dirty work...

The article appeared in the L.A° Times and other newspapers on Feb. 9th.
Since then the Councilmen have been flooded with letters, OPPOSING our
proposal. Naturally they are letters from breeders and from people who
own a female, not for a pet, but for breeding purposes to coin a buck.

I therefore ask every one of you and your friends to write a short
missive,w in gist: (or use your own words, short and to the point).

Councilman Edward Roybal,
City Hall, Los Angeles 12, Calif.

This is to inform you I wholeheartedly APPROVE_of the proposal
submitted to you by Mrs. Sally Moody, re the license fee of $10.00 for
UNSPAYED DOGS AND CATS, which will indeed solve the deplorable animal
conditions now existing in our City. It would also increase revenue,
eliminate mass killing of Gost creatures, and bring about peace of
mind to the citizens of the City.

We also ask that NO BREEDING BE PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
. (Sign your name and address)
******************************** 1

PLEASE WRITE IMMEDIATELY, as this issue is being presented to the Board
of Commissioners very shortly, for their consideration.

We must have your kind cooperation and support, in order to
succeed in our humane endeavors. (I will see your missives at City Hall).

 




2.

TO ALL MEMBERS:

 

Animal Allies has, and shall continue to oppose the Moulder Bill, H.R.
#3556, sponsored by the Humane Society of the United States.

Animal Allies has, and shall continue to oppose the Martha Griffith
bill,- H.R. 1937, sponsored by AWI of New York.

These bills are FOR vivisection, and anyone who approves of them, are
condoning the torture of animals, and are equally as guilty as the sa-
distic fiends who perform these atrocities on God's little defenseless
creatures....

THEREFORE:

WRITE YOUR CONGRESSMEN AND YOUR SENATORS urging them to VOTE
AGAINST H. R #3556, and H R #1937

As I have stated in our 1961 bulletin, a bill abolishing vivisection of
dogs and cats in the United States, has been drafted, and the following
exerpts are part of the bill: (I cannot send you the entire bill at
this time, but it will give you some idea as to the gist of it).

"BE IT ENACTED BY THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IN CONGRESS ASSEMBLED,

That it is declared to be the policy of the United States
that dogs and cats shall not be used for experimental purposes.

SEC. 2. From and after January 1, 1962, no agency or instrumentality
of the United States Government shall use dogs or cats for experimental
purposes.

SEC. 3. From and after January 1, 1962, no grants for experimental
purposes shall be made by or through any agency or instrumentality of
the United States Government or by or through any agent or agency pur—
suan.t to contract or authorization of the United States Government to
any person who uses dogs or cats for experimental purposes (and So
on).

This bill would be a step in the right direction, and would enable us
to continue our fight for total abolition of vivisection, including
ALL living creatures,— step by step.

I s'pose I can be called "Diogenes"——~1ooking for an honest man. Well,
I am looking for an honest, humane Congressman who would introduce the
above ICAV Bill into Congress. I have contacted seVeral California
Congressmen, gave them all the facts and material re vivisection.

Congressman Alphonzo Bell, of Santa Monica, Calif., was kind enough to
discuss this issue with me.° I know he loves little babies, (he adopted
two from orphanages). I therefore very subtly stated that vivisectors
use little babies, humans in mental institutions, children in hospitals,
etc. etc. He turned pale and asked for proof. I gave him all the proof
he needed to convince him of the true meaning of vivisection. I handed
him the ICAV Bill I am waiting to hear from him

YOU CAN HELP: If you know a Congressman who would cooperate, or if any
of your friends could help us in this most vital undertaking, PLEASE,
PLEASE, urge them to contact their Congressman and ask for his support.
(All our days are numbered, so let s do goOd while we are here).

My heartfelt gratitude to the members of Animal Allies, who have been
constant in their support, which makes it possible to carry on our work,
and let us pray for success in our endeavors, to release the poor
creatures from the slavery to which they are exposed.

anely,Z

HALE€3ﬁ36DY :

 




AMMAL MUES, INC.

16605. Oidham 3t
Ehmm%jkmﬁ

Eociety fa? ﬁnimai Pro»
tective Legislation

7&5 yifth ﬁva.,
HeW'York Gity 22, N. Y.

 




 

7 ANIMAL AL‘Ll ES, INC.

BULLETIN TO MEMBERS 166051.101dham-,.._Street
Encino, California
MAY 1961 Phone: 'STate 4-8623

 

 

 

 

"They are slaves who fear to speak for the fallen and the
weak; They are slaves who will not choose hatred, scoffing
and abuse. Rather than in silence shrink from the truth

they needs must think.
They are slaves who dare not be in the right with two or
three."

 

 

 

SHOCKING:

There are'two bills now in Congress, to "regulate" vivisection.
The bills are: -

House Resolution #3556, called the "Mbulder" Bill, and is
sponsored by the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS).

House Resolution #1937, introduced by Rep. Martha Griffiths,,
and sponsored by Animal Welfare Institute of New York.

How can anyone regulate cruelty and torture of any living w‘
creature? "Regulated" vivisection in my opinion is a camouflaged,
glossed-over phrase for torture. 7 I

When the HSUS was organized, we were Very happy, as they informed
us they would devote their time, efforts_and money to fight for legis-
lation to eradicate all forms of cruelties, - such as rodeos, steer
roping, animal training cruelties, suffering of horses in TV shows,
Circus cruelties, trapping, etc. Little did we think they would con-
done vivisection, and would sponsor a bill which would give full power
and control of the poor animals to the vivisectors-.

(I attended the annual meeting of the HSUS at the Ambassador
Hotel on Saturday the 6th. I did not pull my punches re their Moulder
Bill. I told them if they were an anti-cruelty society, it would be
better for them to withdraw their evil bill, and stick to their anti-
cruelty work. They are constantly discusSing the above mentioned
cruelties, but thus far nothing has been done about them.).

Exerpts of the Moulder bill:

Section 12 - (b)-t-"Animals used in any way that would cause
pain shall be anaesthetized....UNLESS the project plan states that
ANAESTHESIA WOULD FRUSTRATE THE PURPOSE OF THE PROJECT." In simpler
words, if the vivisectors doesn't want to anaesthetize the animal, he
has the privilege of butchering the helpless creature while he stands
by towaith.the suffering of the animal, and gloat over his great feat.

 

 

 




 

:; .7 And:how.inconsistent can the foLlowingfeXerpt be???

'Section 12 - (d) -—- "Regardless of the nature of any experiment,'

animals that would suffer prolonged pain as a result of an experiment,
shall be painlessly killedz" “BUT-—-(and here's the payoff)--—

(e)—--Animals used in surgery or other procedures causing pain
or stress, shall be given pain-relieving care and convalescence con-
ditions-—- , .

In simpler words: Butcher the animal, with or without anaesthe-
sia, and if possible, bring the creature back to a condition where it
can be used over and over again for torture...

If the HSUS would change the bill, stating specifically: ,
"Animals MUST be anaesthetized, regardless of experiments or proceem‘
dures, and the animal MUST NOT BE PERMITTED TO COME OUT OF THE-
ANAESTHETIC, BUT BE PAINLESSLY KILLED, (so that it could not survive
to go through the same ordeal), WE WOULD NOT OPPOSE THE BILL.- It
would then be considered a bill trying to abolish suffering and
cruelty, until such time as we could abolish vivisection.

If the HSUS Bill would pass, it would definitely endanger our
efforts to abolish vivisection, as it has done in England, where in
‘ error their anti-vivisection bill turned into a "regulated vivi-
section bill, and millions of defenseless creatures are NEEDLESSLY
being tortured, according to statements made by England's most famous
surgeons and physicians.

THEREFORE:

WRITE YOUR CONGRESSMEN AND YOUR SENATORS urging them to VOTE
AGAINST H.R. 3556, and AGAINST H.R. 1937.

DO NOT DELAY 7 WRITE AT ONCE.

A GOOD BILL IN THE OFFING.

A bill abolishing vivisection of dogs and cats in the United
States, sponsored by the International Conference against Vivisection,
has been drafted, and all true, dependable anti-vivisection societies
are backing this bill. This bill has not as yet been introduced in»
Congress, - consequently does not have a number. However, as soon as
this bill is introduced in Congress, Animal Allies will notify all
members as to how you can help put it over.

While this bill does not abolish vivisection in its entirety, -
such as rats, mice, or other sentient creatures, it is a Step in the
right direction, and we must understand, if the bill Would include 4
more than dogs and cats, we would never find a Congressman or '
Senator who would ventUre to introduce such a bill.

_ 2 _

 

ln<'n

:10 CHU o.m'H U‘n m m m

 

In




 

 

If Animal Allies would be endowed with large legacies, wills and

“l”contributions as are other societies who sit back, talk, but do nothing,

we would do everything humanly possible to eradicate needless suffering
of God's lesser creatures, and work to unite all societies in one effort,
- one aim, - to SMASH VIVISECTION OUT OF EXISTENCE. ‘
CONTINUED CRUELTY - -
In our May 1960 bulletin, we asked our members to write Congress
asking that they show mercy.and decency by releasing the poor little
Beagles that axezincarcerated2h1 tiny mesh cages, - no air, - no sun-
shine, - no exercise---just being imprisoned from two to seven years in
the basement of the SOuth Agriculture Bldg. in Washington; Land has
been donated to erect a building where the dogs could at least have

‘room to turn around. Thus far nothing has been done. The dogs are

still confined, whirling round and roUnd in their prisOns, asking for
deliverance from these dungeons.‘ - »

DID YOU WRITE? I again ask that you do so. 'Write your Senators AT
ONCE=--that we can no longer tolerate this senseless and needless
cruelty, and that we demand the new building to be erected, WITHOUT
FURTHER DELAY. ‘ ﬂ '

One of the sub-committee members of Galifornia is.

Senator Thomas H. Kuchel, Senate Office Bldg. Washington.
All California members write him at Once, PLEASE!

A NEW ISSUE --- "NOISE CONTROL" ‘ d ,

r A new_committee has been formed at City Hall, Los Angeles, -
to eliminate or eradicate noises that are a menace to the health and
welfare of the citiZens of this City. The hearings are held the first
Thursday of each month. I have attended all of them. ~ . . _

.These hearings may be one way in which we can help the poor
animals that are neglected, abused, tied outdoors in the rain and cold
on very short chains, all during the night---crying, whining, barking-~-
cats screaming all night long on our rooftops and in our yards.

I was given permission to speak. I brought out the fact that
the noises of airplanes, trucks, sirens, etc. which they are discuss-
ing, were not the important problems, as they were not affecting the
people of this city in comparison with the above mentioned noises which
are creating physical and mental illnesses of our citizens, when we are
kept awake all night long by the sounds of the barking, whining, meow-
ing of animals.

_ 3.-

 

 

 




 

'w ANOTHER IMPORTANT STATE BILL.

I will not attempt to pose as a lover of animals, or a human-

,.'"itarian, but in a subtle way I am trying to prohibit by law the neglect

and abuse of our little ones by proving how these noises are affecting
the health and welfare of the people of our city...

" x - THEREFORE:

Please write Councilman Lemoine Blanchard, Chairman of the

. ; "Noise Control" committee, City Hall, Los Angeles. Make your letter

strong: Do not be hesitant. Mention the fact that you want decent,

‘humane laws, to protect the pr0perty-owners who are constantly kept

awake all night by the barking of dogs and whining of puppies, and
screeching and meowing of cats. Make your letter sound as if you were
interested in the human element of our city, as well as the abused and
neglected animals.
If you can, please attend these hearings in Council Chambers,

rat 2 P.M. first Thursday of each month.

A new bill has been introduced in Sacramento by Senator Holmdahl,
regarding a "HUMANE COMMISSION"

There will be 10 members appointed by the Governor of the State
of California.---five shall be persons representing local humane
societies, and two shall be persons who have expressed an interest in
providing for the protection of animals.

The bill is to encourage a program of humane education; to pre-
vent cruelty to animals, protection of animals, to aid local societies

.in their endeavors; to further local or state regulations; etc.

This is a good bill, and will be heard May 24th, approx.

1 ‘j PLEASE WRITE TO OUR SENATORS, SACRAMENTO, CALIF. Ask that Bill number

SB 1369 be favorably voted on. Also write our Governor of the State

” of California, submitting names and addresses of persons you want

elected on the Commission, as humane workers, (You can send in the

:~,_name of Sally Moody, State Humane Officer, Encino, Calif.) I feel
. ” 1 could be of great service, without compensation.

y ' WORK PROGRAM.

We are still carrying on our vast spaying program by running

‘. ” ads in six Valley papers. The results are tremendous. BUT----unless
A we have legislation to curb indiscriminate breeding, our money spent

on spaying animals goes down a bottomless pit...We spay one cat or
dog, and one hundred are born.
Altho' Animal Allies is an anti-vivisection society, we Will

“' never turn our backs on the helpless ones when they need veterinarian
’zgg care; spaying; picking up litter after litter of puppies and kittens;

Li'rescuing animals from abusive owners; running ads for homes for the

O" “
\., .7
‘\.~. ,,

‘IVT work. Our burden and responsibilities are great and grave.

'animals constantly thrown in our 1aps---we do every type of humane




 

We send literature throughout the Country and out of the Country, to
educate the uninformed public as to the true meaning of vivisection.
I give lectures at meetings. I appear before our legislators
constantly asking for their cooperation" I appear on TV debating
vivisection, so that the public can be alerted to the TRUTH.

Animal Allies works with "pennies" as compared with the funds
donated to the large Eastern societies. One society recently in-
herited $600,000. The HSUS has inherited $159,000. from one member,
and $75,000 for another. I am merely mentioning this to you, our
members, so that you will understand how difficult it is to do more,
or even as much as we are doing. But, we are silently accomplishing
much more than meets the eye...

We are all volunteer workers.' No office rents. No salaries.
Every penny contributed to Animal Allies, Inc. is spent for the welfare
of the animals.

We are the only society in the telephone book in the vast
Valley, comprising of many cities. You.can therefore well understand
the calls we receive asking for help. We are constantly besieged
with animals for placement. Food bills are high, spaying, vet care,
etc. are terrific. '

NOW YOU CAN READILY UNDERSTAND WHY WE DO NOT SPEND-MONEY
TO SEND BULLETINS MORE OFTEN.- A-NEEDLESS EXPENDITURE.

A FEW INCIDENTS‘:

 

We received a call at 10 P.M;, - a miniature poodle was hit by
a car on Ventura Blvd. I had to call our yet. (night calls are more
expensive). We placed ads in the papers, trying to locate the owner.
We contacted all pounds, shelters, etc. Many calls came in---they
lost a poodle, but would take this one, if I would release it to them.
I said I would IF IT WOULD BE SPAYED. Oh, N0! "Why would you want
a beautiful pure-bred dog spayed?” they said. We had it spayed while
it was-at the vet hospital. Our bill was high. However, we placed
it in a wonderful home.

We received a call last week. .A woman was crying—--her little
pup fell of their truck seat, and was lying on the ground whimpering
in pain. I asked that she take it to a vet immediately. She said she
couldn't afford it. I had to send her to our vet who rushed to his

 




office at midnight. An Xray showed his hind legs broken in half. To
make it brief, bill was $40. after hospitalization. We paid the bill.

Two calls from a woman who owns a dress sh0p on Sepulveda Blvd.
Both calls were pertaining to the meowing of cats or kittens between
two walls. Each time I had to depend on my husband's kind heart and
help. He climbed theyrooftop and lowered a cat-trap. After hours
of waiting, we rescued the kitties. The first time there were three
little ones lying dead at the bottom of the walled-in-area, but one
was still alive. The second time a mama cat was lying dead, but two
kittens were still alive. ~We asked why the roof was not boarded up,
so that these happenings would no longer occur. But---needless to
say how indifferent and callous-hearted the owner of the shOp really
IS.

A woman phoned last week saying she had a little Yorkshire
Terrier, weighing 5 lbs., who needed vet care, but she couldn't
afford it. I had her bring the little creature to our vet. The
doctor phoned me and said never in all his years of practice has he
seen anything so pathetic. Foxtails in the poor creature's eyes,.in
his ears, in his gums. His teeth were all decayed and loose. His
gums were infected. "He had foxtails all over his body, and the poor
dog was in great pain. He was blinded. The vet said the most hUmane
thing to do was to put him Out of his misery. I phoned the wicked
wOman and told her not to dare pick up the dog---that if she did, I'd
cite her into court on a charge of cruelty. '

Enough of_these heartbreaking incidents.‘ I could fill a book.

 




AGAIN I REPEAT!

 

1. Write to your Congressman and Senators
in Washington, re the Moulder Bill,
#3556, and #1937.

2. Write Hon. Thomas H. Kuchel, re Beagles.

3. Write Senators, Sacramento, re HUMANE
COMMISSION bill, and to Governor, suggesting
names on commission.

4. Write Councilman Lemoine Blanchard re
"NOISE CONTROL-H

To our members who have made it possible to carry on our work, and
who have been constant in their support. I THANK YOU FROM THE
. BOTTOM OF MY HEART. Blessings on you and yours.

Humanely

Sally Moody.

P.S. Please send overdue contributions.

WE NEED FUNDS

 




W

A Reverence
for Life . . .

offering #11 in a
TOWN & COUNTRY series
delineated on page 000

Clare Luce

has just written a critique on
behalf of God’s animals that
may well be the plea that will
result in a Congressional In-
vestigation of laboratory prac-
tices! It is yours for the asking
if you ﬁll out and mail the
coupon below.

“Cruelty
is
Contagious”

“My concern is less for the
animals than for the human
society which tolerates, with-
out serious investigation, this
form of organized cruelty. . .
from Pavlov’s dog, to Stalin’s
concentration camps, to Ber-
ia’s NKVD torture rooms, to
the techniques of brainwash-
ing and ‘mass control’ is not
such a far step.”

Mail this coupon now!

 

 

 

Please send FREE the critique on ANIMAL EX-
PERIMENTATION by CLARE BOOTHE LUCE.

VIVISEOTION INVESTIGATION LEAGUE
11 East 44th Street, New York City 17

 

 

 

 

 

 

Having read about the sadistic and horrendous practice of laboratory abuse of animals
in this REVERENCE for LIFE series and having made further 1nquiry into its scope
and practice”

Clare Boothe Luce

believes there should be a

Congressional I nvestigc’ztion

of ORGANIZED CRUELTY!

Clare Boothe Luce is not afraid to
speak out on behalf of an unpopular
cause, once she 13 convinced that the
cause exists and that it needs friends!
We are indebted to her forlone of the
strongest statements on th i subject of
the horrible misuse of anilals in sci-
entiﬁc laboratories. Thank bod, other
men and women of hear’ and con-
science are now making ita point to
inform themselves of these intolerable

'cruelties, and the bravest ire raising

their voices in PROTEST

In masterful prose, the talented and beautiful Clare Boothe Luce has written a cr1t1que
of man’s inhumanity to the lower animals and has graciously given us permission to
print it in booklet form. We offer this unusual document FREE to all readers and to
give you an inkling of the blistering observations by one of the best known women of
our time, we quote from this booklet:

“the most obscene and decadent phenomenon in any civilization”
“The existence of ORGANIZED cruelty, that is, cruelty practiced as a matter of social
principle or public policy, and presented to the community as a means to a higher goal,
is the most obscene and decadent phenomenon in any civilization.”

“the vivisection laboratories are today the Buchewalds, Ausch-
witzes and Dachaus of the animal world” “They burn and boil and bake, freeze,
crush, suffocate, starve, strangle and skin alive. . .often without anesthetizing them.”

“may well prove to be the blackest spot in the history of medical
science” “Dr. Gesell, Chairman of the Dept. of Physiology at the University of
Michigan stated in 1952 that ‘the National Society for Medical Research attaches a
stigma of anti-vivisection to any semblance of humanity. .and converts sanctuaries of
mercy into animal pounds at the beck and call of experimental laboratories. WHAT
A TRAVESTY OF HUMANITY’ adds Dr. Gesell as he warns that ‘THIS MAY

'WELL PROVE TO BE THE BLACKEST SPOT IN THE HISTORY OF MEDI-

CAL SCIENCE’.”
FREE copy of CLARE BOOTHE LUCE’S critique on Vivisection . . . see

coupon

Reprinted from TOWN & COUNTRY February 1961

 




Clare Boothe Luce Writes a Letter

Curtis . Freshel, President

Vivisoction Investigation league - 11 East 44th Street, N.Y.C. ii

suggesting the need of a

Congressional Investigation of Organized Cruelty

 




 

Ridgefield, Connecticut
August 17, 1960

Mr. Curtis P. Freshel, President
Vivisection Investigation League
11 East 44th Street

New York 17, New York

Dear Curt:

I have carefully read the material gathered by the Vivisection Investigation League
which you have sent me.

If the facts as presented by the Vivisection Investigation League are correct, then
vivisection does indeed seem morally difficult to accept. I know from some experi—
ence that there are generally two sides to most questions, and the Vivisectionists no
doubt have theirs. But assuming that the facts concerning unnecessary cruelty, gath—
ered by the League, are correct, then my heart comes down on your side of the ques—
tion. No one can want cruelty to animals — if we accept the dictionary definition of
cruelty as the wilful and unjustifiable inﬂiction of pain.

 

Certainly, throughout the history of mankind cruelty has presented itself under two
aspects - man's inhumanity to man, and man's brutality to dumb animals.

The existence of organized cruelty, that is cruelty practiced as a matter of social
principle or publfdpolicy, and presented to the community as a means to a higher
goal, is the most obscene and decadent phenomenon in any civilization, and has been
known in many previous ages.

 

Terror and torture as instruments of policy were used by Nero and Caligula against
the Christians, in the Spanish Inquisition against heretics, and in the French Revolu-
tion against the aristocracy. But it has remained for men in our own generation to
organize cruelty on a scale never before seen in the civilized world.

Thus, the tortures which the Nazis inflicted on their millions of helpless victims in

. concentration camps,the mass horrors perpetrated by the Communists behind the

Iron Curtain on ”counter-revolutionists, " ”revisionists, ” and "enemies of the people, "
were justified (when they were not denied) by their authors as measures necessary to
protect the race, the state, the One True Ideology.

Today, on this side of the Iron Curtain, officially organized cruelty to men has no de—
fenders and few apologists. World War II and the threat of World War III have made
us realize that mankind's health, happiness and peace depend on the existence and fur—
therance of a humane world community. We know that organized cruelty to our fellow-
men — sadism with the sanction of the state — begets hate and fear, and that the inevi»
table fruits of official sadism are revolution or war.

Unhappily, in the free world we are not so sensitive to the second aspect of cruelty —
brutality to dumb animals. The anti—Vivisectionists, as I understand their case, hold

that a modern form of cruelty, called "vivisection", is highly organized in the Western
World.

To quote the dictionary again, vivisection is "the cutting of the living." They hold
that vivisection laboratories are today the Buchenwalds, the Auschwitzes and Dachaus
of the animal world, and that there Vivisectionists do more than cut or ”section" ani—
mals:—- they burn and coil and bake, freeze, crush, suffocate, starve, strangle, and
skin animals alive, often without anesthetizing them, and that they torment and torture

 




-2-

animals in ways more original than the exquisite Marquis de Sade or the most savage
denizens of the African jungle could ever have conceived.

I am sure that no one in the medical profession will deny that vivisection is the delib-
erate infliction of pain. Plainly, the pro—vivisection argument centers on the question
of whether or not the deliberately inflicted pain is justifiable. The pro—vivisectionists
contend that it is justifiable to ”experiment", that is, to-induce suffering, create dis—
ease, and kill the lower order of animals in order to discover benefits for the highest
order of animal - man.

 

There can be no doubt that every year many thousands of animals — especially dogs

and cats and monkeys - endure gruesome deaths in the laboratories of American medi—
cal researchers on the grounds that their induced and prolonged sufferings provide Sci-—
ence with much new and useful information about the health and happiness of man.

Are the vivisectionists right, or are they wrong, when they assert that experimenta—
tion on animals is justified by their avowed end — the amelioration of human pain?

This is a question no American citizen can want to ignore.

Frankly, I must plead ignorance concerning their side of the case. I have never seen
any comprehensive study made by qualified lay and medical witnesses about the whole
animal experimentation question. It seems, however, that there has never been a
congressional investigation of the vivisectionist's profession.

Such a report, or such an investigation, should certainly be made and should deal ex—
plicitly and exhaustively with the following questions:

(I) How are the laboratory vivisectionists recruited?

The charge has been made by anti-vivisectionists that many of the practitioners of the
art of ”cutting the living” are recruited from the ranks of students who have failed,
for intellectual or emotional reasons to pass their medical school examinations as
qualified doctors, Surgeons, biological researchers, chemists or veterinarians. And
according to your records, many doctors and laymen who are profoundly interested in
the question suggest that a number of men who volunteer for the career of animal ex—
perimentation display an abnormal predilection for cruelty, and therefore gravitate
naturally towards a form of ”research" which permits them to indulge it legally. Cer-
tainly the average citizen feels a natural enough distrust of a man, even though he call
himself a "scientist", who willingly chooses vivisection as a career. It is difficult to
entertain a warm feeling for a ”medical man" who can strap an unanesthetized dog to
a table, cut its vocal cords, and spend an interesting day — or week — slowly eviscer—
ating or dismembering it. A congressional investigation should answer the question
concerning the recruitment of vivisectionists.

(2) How many recorded and uncontested cures for diseases, physical or mental, or
for new and salvific operating techniques have really originated in the laboratories of
the vivisectionists ?

 

According to the material you have drawn to my attention, anti—vivisectionists contend
that the mass vivisections which have been undertaken in the research laboratories
where dogs, cats, and monkeys are used have produced, so far, no cures for cancer,
thrombosis, apoplexy, diabetes, arthritis, epilepsy, alcoholism, insanity, or even
the common cold. Moreover - and I suppose that the researchers do not deny this
themselves — they claim that despite the wholesale bloody experimentation on animals,
the only real proof of the drugs found by the chemists or the operating techniques

 




-3-

suggested by the experimentation on animals, must be in the end verified by trying
them on human subjects. The point here would seem to be that animal experimen—
tation is a useless preliminary step. A congressional investigation should answer
this question.

(3) Who regulates, supervises, monitors the laboratories of the vivisectionists ?
What authorities of state or federal government check them on a legal and regular
basis to ascertain whether or not the pain so deliberately inflicted on them has a
legitimate scientific and humanitarian purpose ? Science, for science's sake - like
war for war's sake — is neither humanism, nor humanitarianism. No effort of man
can be justified except for man's sake or God's.

The pro—vivisectionists insist that vivisection, as practiced today is "controlled sci—-
entific research". But what do they mean by ”controlled" ? Is it true that the New
York State law on cruelty to animals specifically exempts vivisection laboratories
from its provisions ? And that cruelty to dumb animals is subject to fine, punishment
and regulation only where it is spontaneous, individual and unorganized? Are the real
”controllers” — the vivisectionists themselves —— are they therefore without legal con—
trol? What are the laws which 'control the controllers ? If the State or the Federal
government refuses, in deference to ”science", to exercise any restraint or supervi—
sion over the vivisectionist laboratories, what authority, supervision restraint does
the American Medical Association exercise over them? Or is it accepted by both gov—
ernment and the medical profession that none seems necessary in view of the fact that
dumb animals cannot speak out in their own defense, can exert no pressures on their
”controllers", with or without scientific proof for the necessity of doing so?

(4) In what respect does British law differ from U. S. A. law in the practice of vivi—
section ?

I gather there are more humane laws in Great Britain. Have these laws caused any
provable damage to medical research and progress ? The two great vivisectionist
nations are the U. S. S. R. and the U. S. A. and under the Nazis, Germany, whose vivi—
sectionists found it easy to transfer their techniques from the bodies of animals to
the bodies of Jews when supplied with them by Hitler.

Certainly I agree that if they do not exist it should not be difficult for state govern-
ments to constitute properly appointed commissions to study and report on the an—
swers to these reasonable questions. If vivisection has its uses, then like every

other profession to which man has ever turned his hand, it is reasonable to suppose

it also has its abuses. It is the humane duty of the state in a Christian country to in—
form the public on the uses, or abuses, of vivisection and to seek to curtail the abuses.

I do not say that vivisection has not served useful ends for mankind. I simply do not
know, because I have not happened on any authoritative report which has made the con-
crete case for the concrete benefits, otherwise unattainable, which have accrued to

us from its practice. On the other hand, I read with the greatest of interest the books,
pamphlets, letters, statements you sent to me, in which many fine doctors and sure-
geons as well as moral leaders and famous laymen have gone repeatedly and unequiv-
ocally on the record to insist that from their own knowledge vivisection, by and large,
is unjustified in terms of the advances it has made in the curing of ill, diseased or
mutilated humans.

 

I was very impressed by the statement of Dr. Bigelow of Harvard Medical School,
that "The time will come when the world will look back to modern vivisection in the
name of Science, as it does now to burning at the stake in the name of Religion. " Also,
it is most impressive to read that Dr. Gesell, Chairman of the Department of

 




-4-

Physiology at the University of Michigan has stated that unhumanitarian actions of
vivisectors "may well prove the blackest spot in the history of medical science. ”

Yet, my own concern — if all this is true — would be less for the animals than for the
human society which tolerates, without a serious investigation, what such men claim
to be a highly organized form of organized cruelty.

For cruelty is contagious. Organized cruelty to animals no less than to men, could
subtly infect a whole society with irreverence for life. From Pavlov's dogs, to
Stalin's concentration camps, to Beria's NKVD torture rooms, to the techniques of
brain washing and "mass control" techniques can be a series of “rational” steps.

 

Recently the Soviet scientists publicized as a great scientific achievement of Com—
munist vivisection, a picture of a dog who had another dog's head grafted between its
shoulders and had "lived" several days. Assuming it were possible to perform this
operation on man (and who knows but what the enthusiastic Soviet vivisectionists may
have already tried in a human vivisectionist laboratory ?) what indeed would it prove ?
Perhaps that a Russian with two heads might have the courage - with one of them, be-
fore both died — to denounce the monstrous obscenity and sin of such "Frankenstein"
operations.

And, perhaps, in the extremities of anguish both heads of the man (as of the dog, if
he could have spoken) would also point out that the Judeo—Christian religion has been
marked by the renunciation of violence and a spirit of love and benevolence towards
all creatures, and that the deliberate inﬂiction of pain without considerable public
proof of its utility amounts to practical atheism.

St. Francis of Assisi was the first of many great Catholics and Protestants to plead
for reverence for all creature life. But no one in our generation has spoken more
eloquently against vivisection than Dr. Albert Schweitzer who wrote:

”Hear our humble prayer, 0 God, for our friends, the animals, es—
pecially for animals who are suffering; for animals that are over-worked,
under—fed and cruelly treated, for any that are hunted or lost or deserted
or frightened or hungry; for all that must be put to death.

"We entreat for them all Thy mercy and pity, and for those who deal with

them we ask a heart of compassion and gentle hands and kindly words.

Make us, ourselves, to be true friends to animals and so to share the

blessings of the merciful. ”
Do the vivisectionists who deal with animals have kind hands and compassionate hearts ?
I, myself, am eager for the answers to all the questions I have raised in this letter.
To repeat, I hope that steps can be taken to present the case against vivisection to the

American public in the form of a congressional investigation.

Sincerely,

Clare Boothe Luc e

(Letter to Curtis P. Freshel, Pres. , Vivisection Investigation League,
11 East 44th Street, N. Y.C. l7)

 




ESTABLISHED ll“

IArclay 7-537!

PRESS CLIPPING BUREAU
165 Church Street - New Yogi:

TUNKHANNOCK PA
REPUBLICAN 81 NEW AGE

W. 3. 321
NOV 3 1950

 

i/A1ea l’un 1i lJJorlJeJS tight Senate

llieaSJ Jae 1i our tine VJ as

/ llr. Maxine (j. Bush, together
with other Northeastern Pennsyl-
vania humane wo1kers attended

the annual 1e ,q of the Amer-
ican Anth’iV’igftmn Society at
Hotel, in

the Bellevue Stlatfmd
IPhiladelphia, Friday night.

A panel of speakers discussed

a proposed Federal Senate Bill
for regulation of vivisection. Owen
Hunt, president of the American
A'nti-Vivisection Society. acted as
’moderator and also reported on
his summer trip to England, where
he and heads of the British Anti-
Vivisection Society discussed the
bill and compared it with British
regulatory laws.

. Sneakers on the panel included
William Snyder, president, The
Maryland AnthVivisection Society,
and Clarence E. Richard, manag-
ing’ director of the National Anti-
ViVise-ction Society.

Each speaker presented reasons
why his society is against this
regulatory legislation. The bill
under d‘iSCussion is temporarily
dead Ibut‘it is expected a 'similar
one will be introduced in the U. 5‘
Senate when it next convenes.

Dr. Bush explained: “The Ant:-
Vivisection Societies are vigorous-
ly opposing: such a bill. The pro-
posed law does not regulate so as
to reduce the suffering of labora—
tory animals—as is i111splied-1ano
it contains dangerous loop-holes
which 'make the investigation 01
laboratories and enforcement of
the law virtually impossible. The
use of the word regulatory gives
a whvole‘ly false impression. We
anti-vivisectionists are 100 percent
Opposed to this legislation and wiI1
fight it with all of our s r gth.
We are out to abolish anim tor-
tu1e, not to ‘regulate e ems:-
ina laboratory tortures. On this
principle we take a united stand.

“Eventually we will albolish vtv-
isection'by law just as we have
aibolished Janimral atbus'es on the
iﬁarm by law. We do not stand
by and ‘regulate’ the beating of
cows or domestic animals in Wye

'We

‘aTV

 

C
W was

0min;r County or anywhere else
in our United States. When we
have knowledge of a farmer beat-
in': his cow it is reported to an
Ofﬁcer of the iaw and the crim-
inal is arrested.

“Animal abuses ,in laboratories
are conducted behind door'2 more;
tightly closed than the barn door.
will abolish such willfm
cruelty when enough of our citi-
zens know what vivisection is, and
learn of the unspeakable tortures
suffered day in and day out in
‘1‘espectahle’ places under the
falsely soft sounding: Words ‘an.
imal err-pm: mentation.’ Loop holes
in humane laus pennit thi :2 tor- .
ture in certainlabo1atories~nhere
big money is made at the expense
of the.ani;11als——-including monkeys ’
and stolen petsm-cats and dogs.
The work of our many anti-Vivi-
section societies educational,
as well as legislative, bringing
these evil-s out into the open.

15

“The high spot of the program
to the large Bellevue-Stratford
Hotel audience was given by M1.
Richard when he su.J1mar2 7 d the
debates he has paiticipated in re~
cently on TV stations in Florida
and other states. The climax was
reached when Mr. Richard opened
his tape recorder and ran for his
auditors the tape recordings of
debate in which our op-
ponents bold facedly lied to the
huge TV audience regarding the
scna te bill.’ ’

D1.

“We u1ge
all humane persons to investigate

Bus‘h continued:

thoroughly and get the facts
straight from a reliable souice
before you express to your sena~
tor your feelings about a bill.
“You are invited to write for
informative literature to. the Na-
tional Anti-Vivisection Society,
100 East Ohio Street, Chicago 11,
Illinois. That society will set you

.strai'rht as to what proposed law

are helpful to suffering animal.
and which are introduced 11 e1
false colors.” ' , .

 

 

 

 

 




REGULATION: -

PLEASE PASS ON

Latest data on experiments in England sent to The New Jersey Humane
Education Committee, Inc. by Miss Margaret Ford. Answers given in Parliament.
Quoted by "The A. V. News Sheet." ‘

Number of experiments in British Laboratories 2,117,912
Under Anesthetics h2,101
And of these the number allowed to recover .
from the_anesthetics 33,337

Experiments on Cats, Dogs, horses, donkeys, mules 1h,989
of those without anesthetics 86%

Registered places of Vivisections .‘h6l
Vivisectors - male 3 1,838
Vivisectors ~ female . g 381

No figures for America, as no records are kept, or at least made public -
purposely, but a Nurse in large New York City hospital, 1955, says it has for
experimental purposes 5,000 animals, mice, guinea pigs - but mostly monkeys,
dogs and cats. . ' .

The New Jersey Humane Education Committee, Inc. says it has been reported The
American Medical Association opposes formation of Humane Committees to inspect

laboratories. Doesn‘t this prove that the said laboratories will not bear
investigating?

What is regulation ~ ”It is an idea to stop excessive cruelty and lessen the‘
evil practice. Vivisectors like the idea because it deceives people who believe
the honeyed words of the gang." .

Joseph Striegel, Vegetarian Digest.

Regulation does not regulate.

Regulation admits necessity for vivisection.

Regulation would be the end of the Anti—Vivisection movement.
Regulation has been a failure in England.

It gives legal sanction to vivisection as under U.S. Law of 1915, the vivi—
sector is protected if he claims that he works scientifically to aid mankind.

Regulation is a strange doctrine to be proposed by any Antivivisection Society.

Anyone approving REGULATION IS NOT AN ANTIVIVISECTIONIST.

 




 

REGULATION AND

INSPECTION ARE USELESS

Under the Vivisection Act, two Inspectors are appointed,
whose duty it is to visit the places registered for vivisection,
But their visits are worse than useless. It has been admitted
(1) that the inspectors do not attempt to take the vivisectors
unawares; (2) that they only see an infinitesimal fraction of
the experiments performed, (3) that they cannot always tell when
an animal is suffering pain. Exwvivisectors have actually been
appointed as Inspectors. It is accordingly futile to suggest an
increase in the number of Inspectorates. This would merely
further legalize a great wrong, and create a new vested interest,
and to this the Scottish Anti—Vivisection Society is totally
Opposed.

The Scottish Anti-Vivisection Society
207 West George Street, Glasgow, 0.2

Distributed by Humane Education Committee of N. J. Inc.

 




FLEMINGTON. N. J.
DEMOCRAT

W. 13.400

leﬁi'.

' on: 1 7 i964 52%
‘ - ¢ ‘ ' index'of human diseases and he—l Over and over thruout the ma}?
8 S 1 or 1 havior. gtion these senseless tests and far;

To Keep Animals

 

, . y‘ ' s _ i ,‘ ti)".l
was a
thalf billion of. our tax dollars will “6th 31514-11121; ”ﬁfe ‘\t_;“.1%111}.,1.
go to the disbursing: agency for ’ l“ ‘ D “ J S‘ ‘1 ‘

:cruelties and neglects practiced in,

lthesc laboratories where dogs and these uninspeetcd tax“ m1 dowcd‘
-, c. u -‘.

llNo‘ole-Collip drum, which has tri-l NOW however. there ‘13 son“?

. 13112111151. projections inside 10 hope for them it you will help!
3.11:9: the Editor of the Democrat: ”11111101. injure the animals. “11056 The Randall Bill. tilt 4856. providw
» .At this season when kindnessllegs lare- tied. Inoumerablc catsvmfiI 551110 flittitiislum ‘0? pgolect'aon .
,_ ~. ,. 1, , .1 , - fwm ). 1 19, - _'rr 1‘ 1; :11 W1 0 I'Clll I'Ot'llCCﬂ m1 anuamyg
and EIGUd “‘11 Dim $111-$131: US “Ottnnd oﬁfggfogei‘ﬁgglﬁm' $321131? :and letters supporting it mustl
forget the hapless “ “5 ‘ {Hid ill this dal‘k \R'Ol’lvd Will beipmll‘ ill 10 PFCSltit‘ili'. jtilll‘lﬁQllﬁ
in numerous lnlmralnrim llli‘miui swaiited in the face, sharplvlsellalm‘s Clifford 0850 mid “all“:
‘ “this land of the great society, areipinched at tail ends and electriJ ‘1503 Williams, and YOU? COW;
"Suhject t0 unimaginable torturescally shocked 111111 cage nomlgrcssman. The power of the lol)-;
“and neglect iii/experiments, mean—3i grills. (111 one efortmuto see What‘ hies. which is attested hy the 313.71
-iiii'gless and useless as scientifielinakes them purr”)! "DI‘ODI‘iatiUU of $1,058.992,000 {01‘}
l ' W“ ' " '“ “‘ ' - W; Jar—«m- 1 1965 must be countered by the e>z—':
pressed opinion of an informed, iii-*1
dignant public. '
Your cards and letters support-li
ing lill 48.36 will he a great gift to;
the trapped. needlessly suffering;
- laboratory animals—~zmti one truly:
in keeping with the gentle, lovinglg
spirit of the season. "
DOROTHY PATOCKA
R. D. 5 Flemington, N. .l.,

Dec. 14, 1964

. ‘ l . .
, 10ther animals Will he rotated up . . 1
a .' FlOm TOYtUle to 1,000‘times in the iiitninOiISyl‘mO)“mum“

 

 

 

\t' h o

f
.5
Ea

J":

 

 




U1 yUl/U. blllluo puupablull.

 

OCTOBER 1960 o VOLUME 4. NUMBER 2

 

C. Richard Calore, Editor
Jean Calore, Managing Editor

Associate Editors:

Donald I. Ogden, D.V.M.
Peter E. Koopman, M.D.
W. D. Chesney, MD.

J. M. Kolisch, M.D.
Virginia Gillas

Address all correspondence to: Voice of the Voiceless,
P.O. Box 17403, Foy Station, Los Angeles 17, Calif.

Subscription Rates: $2.00 a year; $3.50 for two years.
Published bimonthly by Calore Publications.

Change of Address: Send your new address at least
thirty days before the date with which it is to take effect.

This publication assumes no responsibility for unsolicited
manuscripts or photographs unless accompanied by suf—
ficient return postage.

This company also publishes THE YOUNG HEART
for children.

Printed by Public Press, Bellflower, California.

OCTOBER 1960

That hunger cannot make him rude;

And his behavior doth confess

True courage dwells in gentleness.

Few men to do such noble deeds have learned,
Or having done, could look so unconcerned.

———A nonymous

 

ZONE NUMBER

The Post Office has divided 106 cities into
postal delivery zones to speed mail delivery.
Be sure to include zone numbers when writing
to these cities. Be sure to include your zone
number in your return address—after the city,
before the state.

 

Any good we can do, or any kindness that
we can show to any fellow creature, let us do
it now for we shall not pass this way again.

—— Stephen Grellet

 

COVER PAGE

Saint Francis of Assisi with the dove
that would not fly away. Painted by
Marion C. Crowe. SussexI England.

—-3

 

 

 




gamma“ of L'ée 3mm! ,
Random Thoughts on Vivisection Control

JEAN GALORE
:D ear friends, my heart is heavy this Dr. Bayly points out that the Cooper bill,

morning as a consequence of the subject to be

placed before you —— the most controversial
issue in the humane
movement a t t h e
present time —- that
of vivisection regula-
tion in the form of
the Cooper bill
(S. 3570) which was
introduced i n t h e
Senate recently.

I am reminded of
an age-old hymn, the
words of which seem
particularly applica—
ble to the problem at
hand:

“Thrice blessed is he who can divine
Where real right doth lie;

And dares to take the side that seems
Wrong to man’s blindfold eye.”

The.wrong in this case seeming to be our
opposition to a measure that proposes to dimin—
ish to some degree the agonies of animals un—
dergoing vivisection. I fear that the average
American who is completely misled as to the
true nature and extent of vivisection and a
great many misinformed humane workers are
being drawn into an enthusiastic acceptance
of this bill as a great step forward, whereas
it is nothing of the kind.

Eighty—four years ago such a bill was passed
in Great Britain and under it there has never
been a prosecution! Think of it! One of the
leading proponents of the Cooper bill states in
a letter to The Christian Science Monitor that
this fact is a tribute to its efficacy! Can the
writer actually believe that in nearly a century
of vivisection involving some three million ex-
periments annually there never has been a
case of cruelty severe enough to warrant prose-
cution! (Talk about a blindfold for the eyes.
There was never a heavier one than this.)

The British Home Office Return of Experi-
ments on Living Animals showed that in 1958
2,897,383 were carried out without anaesthesia!
This is so shocking, so monstrous, as to make
of its sympathizers defenders of Hades.

M. Beddow Bayly, M.D., chairman of the
British Council of Anti-Vivisection wrote in
April of this year that the British Act has
failed completely in preventing severe and
prolonged suffering, and that it gives protect-
tion to the experimenters, not to the animals.
(Here is the foremost reason for enlightened
humanitarians in the United States to oppose

the Cooper bill.)
l0 —-

like the British Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876,
will “lull the public into thinking that labora-
tory animals have reasonable protection where-
as in fact they will have virtually none.”

If I appear to draw heavily from the record
of Great Britain it is for the reason that we
must be warned by what has happened there.
We must not allow a similar ineffective bill
to become law in our own country!

A leaflet distributed by the Society for Pro-
tective Legislation, New York, takes note of the
fact that in many experiments severe pain is
inﬂicted without the benefit of an anaesthetic
(in American laboratories) and goes on to add
that “this may in some cases be justifiable.”)
I submit that an organization seeking to protect
animals cannot with a good conscience publish
the considered opinion that severe pain is justi—

fiable.

The question arises, how can any of us
justify severe pain to animals that are capable
of suffering as much as human beings? Has a
Christian nation chosen to ignore the Biblical
question, “What shall it profit a man to gain
the whole world and lose his own soul?” Can
we willingly push millions of sensitive crea-'
tures into the horrible vortex of vivisection,
not even to gain the whole world, but because
we hope to be thereby delivered from some
disease? The words of John Cowper Powys
ring eloquent and true over the years: “Tor-
turing animals in an effort to prolong human
life has separated science from the most im- '
portant thing that life has produced—the hu-
man conscience. The value of a man is not
in the number of diseases from which he es-
capes, but in the nobility and magnanimity of
his soul.”

I further regard the Cooper bill with suspic-
ion in that it does not even specify that ani-
mals must not be subjected to the severing of
their vocal cords prior to vivisection. Apologists
for this cruel practice deem it necessary due to
the close proximity of laboratories to hospital
wards, housing developments, etc. If the ani-.
mals were decently treated there would be no
more noise than in any properly conducted
veterinary hospital or shelter. The reason ani—
mals are “debarked” is that their heartrender—
‘Eng outcries in the laboratories would be recog-
nized by passers-by as anything but normal.

Clarence E. Richard, Managing Director of
The National Anti-Vivisection Society writes:
“Without amendments that w o u 1 (1 give it
(S. 3750) teeth so far as penalties are con-
cerned, and the placing of control in the hands
of unbiased, humane officials, the bill is worse

VOICE OF THE VOICELESS

 




ST. FANCIS: SOUL OF COMPASSION

BY PATRICK J. EARLS

Every century produces its great humani-
tarian, and it was the 13th century that gave to
the world a wandering troubadour and humane
poet who applied the Golden Rule to every liv-
ing creature —— Francis of Assisi.

October 4 is observed throughout the world
as World Animal Day in tribute to this humble
person who was the protector and voice of all
animals.

Giovanni Bernardone was born in Assisi,
Italy. Because of his compassion for French
poetry of the troubadours, he was nicknamed
“Francesco” or as an ordinary schoolboy of
today might be called “F renchy.”

After a number of years as a “gay blade,”
his entire life changed and he consecrated him-
self to the poor and unfortunate people. He
gave up a life of luxury to lead a life of poverty,
dedicating himself to his fellow men and to the
creatures of nature.

St. Francis was in advance of his age—an
age of ruthless living. He loved nature and
animals and considered that all life had certain
rights. His compassionate heart was extended
to all that feel pain. It can be said that this
piccolo sam‘o was one of the first truly great
humanitarians to show “reverence for all life.”

The beginning of the 13th century was an
age of awakening. It was the flowering of cul-
ture and the creative arts. A few decades later
it produced Dante, the greatest poet since Vir—
gil, and introduced Giotto, the great painter
who was the pioneer artist of the Renaissance.
And it was only a few years before that Francis
emerged as the true champion of the sick, the
poor, and all unfortunate people. He was the
first to champion the rights of animals, birds,
and fish. I like to think of this humble beggar
from the Umbrian plain s as the one who
formed the first humane society, and himself
as the first humane officer.

This poverello was a poet, and unlike others,
he was a happy one. He was a humane poet
whose whole life was a humane poem. He
was, in the words of Gilbert Chesterton: “Not
so much a minstrel merely singing his own
songs, but a dramatist capable of acting the
whole of his play.”

St. Francis not only loVed by re v e r e (:1
God in all His creation. It was a c 0 mm o n
sight to see this humble mendicant preaching
to the beasts of the forest, the birds in the sky,
and the fish in the sea, for to him they were
his “little brothers.”

The legends about this humanitarian are
legion. Perhaps the most famous one is the
story about the wolf of Gubbio. As the story
goes, there was a very vicious wolf who used to
destroy the plants in the field and due to his
viciousness, most of the villagers dared not
enter into the fields. This was causing a short-

OCTOBER 1960

age of food. People had great fear of being
devoured by this beast. One day a man im-
plored Francis to intervene. As the legend has
it, he went to the woods and preached a sermon
to his “brother wolf.” Immediately, the wolf
became gentle as a lamb and a friend to all
the villagers.

St. Francis can be compared to two later
humanitarians in the field of animal welfare:
Richard Martin, who was one of the founders
in England of the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, and to his American
counterpart, Henry Bergh. These three men
shared one basic principle: The abolition of
cruelty to all animals.

Unlike the many saints and mystics who
lived before and after him, this humble per-
son from the Province of Umbria showed rev—
erence for all lifeé—human and animal. This,

in my opinion, separates the great from the
so-called great. And in reﬂecting, one can easily
notice the great similarity between the man
from Assisi and a present-day great hu-
manitarian from Lamberene, Africa — Albert
Schweitzer.

Speaking about the animal kingdom, St.
Francis wrote: “They have the same source as
we had. Like us, they derive the life of thought,
will and love from the Creator. Not to hurt
our humble brethren, was our first duty to
them; but to stop there, a complete misappre-
hension of the intentions of Providence. We
have a higher mission. God wishes that we
should succor them whenever they require it.”

 

5 Subscriptions for ONLY $5.00

To get more people acquainted with our
magazine. we offer this special. For five
dollars we will send five subscriptions to
your friends with a note stating it is a
gift from you.

Order your subscriptions NOW. This
offer will NOT be repeated for another
yearI and ends December I2.

VOICE OF THE VO'ICELESS
P. O. Box l7403 Foy Station
Los Angeles I7. California

$2.00 Yearly Published bimonthly

 

 

 

 




than useless—it is a betrayal of animals, and
a victory for the very men it pretends to
restrict.”

One of the most glaring faults of the Cooper
bill is that only a fraction of laboratory animals
would come under its jurisdiction, as the bill
only applies to institutions and ViVisectors re-
ceiving government grants.

A review of Michael Joseph’s touching book
about his pet cat was written in the Chicago

Tribune and read in part: “Here, love nearly
bridges the gulf between man and animal and
that is an achievement that touches moral
splendor.”

lVIay we not attain. to that moral splendor
the sooner by ceasing to exploit the animal
life because it cannot resist; and by the dedi-
cated union of all who love in the service of
all who suffer?

 

Joseph Smith Taught Reverence for Life

“He who treats in a brutal manner a poor
dumb animal, at that moment disqualifies him—
self for the companionship of the Holy Spirit.”

“Man has been entrusted with sovereignty
over the animal kingdom that he may learn
to govern as God rules, by the power of love
and justice and become fit for His enternal
destiny as a ruler of the worlds.”

“Men must become harmless before they
can expect it of the brute creation, and when
men lose their vicious disposition and cease
to destroy the animal race, the lion and the
lamb can dwell together, and the suckling
child play with the serpent in safety.”

“The whole animal creation will be per-
fected and perpetuated in the hereafter, each
class in its distinct order and sphere, and will
‘enjoy eternal felicity’.”

“ ‘A righteous man regardeth the life of
his beast.’ So wrote a man of wisdom three
thousand years ago. Since then how many
unrighteous men have caused untold suffering
among poor dumb animals!”

“Kindness to the whole animal creation and
especially to all domestic animals is not only
a virtue that should be developed, but is the
ABSOLUTE DUTY OF MANKIND. Children
should be taught that nature in all her form is
our Heavenly Father’s Great Book of life.”

 

THE PINES TO PALMS WILDLIFE COMMITTEE
OF CALIFORNIA. INC.

is an organization of active and determined citizens who are dedicated to the proposition

that the resources of wild life and game are the property of ALL the people and. therefore.

their rightful concern.

AND

that a great and urgent need exists for the complete reorganization of ALL state agencies
concerned with the administration of this resource in the interest of public health and

welfare.

AND

that this resource must be protected from political abuse and commercial exploitation by

minority and pressure groups.

AND

that laws must be provided which. unlike the existing ones. shall guarantee the safety and the
iust and efficient administration of this resource —— in all its aspects — for the benefits of
ALL the .peOple.

AND

that such laws to be enacted must provide for the protection of the resource as well as the
protection of public and private property from the resource and must establish an official
attitude which shall correctly reflect civilized man's moral obligations toward other less
fortunate forms of life.

This Committee is composed of members and supporters. and is active throughout the state
of California.

For further information. write to:

"Membership" The Pines to Palms Wildlife Committee of California. Inc.
Indian Rock Ranch

Mountain Center. California

OCTOBER 1960

 




BETWEEN YOU AND ME

BY VIRGINIA GILLAs

While visiting friends in Logan, Utah, I
noticed two dogs chained to a small dog house
(rather ill made) who barked and howled

_ continuously.

U p o n inquiry I
found that the own—
er of the dogs was
away in a mental

‘ institution in Provo,
Utah, and that
neighbors were look—
ing after the dogs.

Upon further in-
vestigation I found
dried up food, gravy,
and dry dog cereal

scattered all around the dog house (very small
area). Garbage and debris and filth all around
the area.

One dog, a medium sized cocker (mixed),
blonde color, was not too easy to become friends
with, the other dog, a small, mixed, black and
white dog (teeth in bad condition), was very
friendly. I gave them a good dinner (mixed
dry dog cereal with Skippy dog food in can,
contains no horse meat) and fresh water in
clean pans. Later I went back and talked to
them and petted them. I went over two or three
more times to see that they were not tangled

up (both tied to one chain). I took a few
pictures of the dogs.

The next morning I took them a good break-
fast and removed the dirty pans from the night
before and petted them and talked with them.
The largest dog (mixed cocker) is now very
friendly and grateful. I wanted to take them
for a walk on a leash, but my friends said that
it would probably be more cruel to get them
used to exercise and walks when I would be
leaving in a day or two and there will be no
one else to do it. I decided not to get them
used to walks.

Later that morning I went over and picked
up the debris and raked up the garbage and
stale food from the area around the makeshift
dog house where they are confined. There
were tufts and clumps of dog hair everywhere
and When I petted the dogs, large balls of fur
came off in my hand. They needed brushing
badly.

I was told that some time ago the dogs were
left there, they whined and barked constantly
and many neighbors complained. My friends
called the police and were told that they’d
have to have a petition signed by all the neigh—
bors before they could do anything. (There is
no Humane Society in Logan, Utah.)

 

,4 30¢» Eeaawaw

A woman, whose only son has
been dead for some years and was
buried in the churchyard near her
home, told about her old dog.

From time to time she is in the
habit of taking flowers to put
upon her son’s grave. She always
cuts the flowers and leaves them
in the kitchen until evening, when
she walks down to the church-
yard. Whenever her dog 5 e e 8
these flowers in the kitchen, he
disappears. The woman, on arriv-
ing at the churchyard, finds him
lying on her son’s grave. When
the flowers have been put on the
grave, the dog follows his mistress
home.

VOICE OF THE VOICELESS

 




MR. HUNT SPEAKS IN LONDON

FUTILITY OF BILL 5.3570

SEPTEMBER, 1960 Jim

 

 




 

 

 

 

The A-V

 

Second class postage paid at Philadelphia, Pa.

 

The A-V is published monthly (except August)
under the auspices of the American Anti-
Vivisection Society.

OWEN B. HUNT, President

Subscription Price, $ 1.00 per year

Oﬂice of Publication

1903 Chestnut Street

Philadelphia 3, Pa.
Telephone: LOcust 3-1414

JOSEPH A. SEXTON, Editor

Contributing Editors:
M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.,
Agnes F. Chase, Dorothea F. Cooper,
Nina Halvey

Table of Contents

 

. British Conference pledges aid to Mr. Hunt
Humane Slaughter Methods

Wisconsin Woman Urges Fight Against
Cooper Bill

By Owen B. Hunt

Silent Language ........................ Joseph A. Sexton

The Futility of Bill 5.3570
M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

Heard and Read .......................... Agnes F. Chase

 

Headquarters Headlines ...... Dorothea F. Cooper

When sending funds or making bequests, please use our legal title,
The American Ant'i—Vizi'isecz‘lion Society
1903 Chestnut Street, Phila. 3, Pa.

 

 
    
   
       
    
 
  
 

     
 

ﬁlm I 'I‘ g I,
_:.;.\ I, ".u,‘h._ I ,I‘
a, myttliy‘iil‘e
‘ \Tl’w’w’
AMA"! "a x
, . .

‘I

 

9_ iii:
It:
H

    

 

    

    
      
  

  

  

   
   
     
  
 
   

\\

 

Q 5
BE THIS A SYMBOL THAT 4; . EAN TO STAND
g; » AGAINST ALL CRUE“: \«3 gTTHE LAND
H NTIL MAN'S CREA’ /,. I/W‘F‘ BRINGS
, ~ DNESS AND ME ,, a”, ” s :ljzr THsNGs
'2' ".,,. " ' \

sum

/
a

t

I
’-

 

_._',
{ii/l ‘\

\\. .1; ‘\

0 "L" In“.

 
 
    
  

  
  

 

 

 

 

r/
(Ml
- , 7"

   
 
     

I

I
A N
\i I J

.__.__..___————-—
‘ 1 . \
1,, ‘ I
4‘ v ‘ I
' s. ‘I
. I I '1
l ‘ ‘ i. ,. ,
» ,
.< ’-
h v ‘
‘ .
— , .
~ ‘ ‘.~
. \ . |
‘ \vl

PM A L. F O U E

   
      

  
  

 

     

 

   

 
 

ITAMV\—~

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

VOL. LXVIII

PHILADELPHIA, PA., SEPTEMBER, 1960

 

British Emigrants Pledges Aid to
Mr. Hunt in Fight Against 5357'

One of the most representative and enthu-
siastic Anti-Vivisection conferences held in
Great Britain in recent years took place in
London, August 4th, for the purpose of hearing
Owen B. Hunt, President of the American
Anti—Vivisection Society, discuss the crisis
brought about by the introduction in the U. S.
Senate, of Bill S3570.

The gathering was under the auspices of the
British, European, and Allied Anti-Vivisection
Societies. Air Marshall, Lord Dowding
presided.

The meeting brought a remarkable turn-
out of anti—vivisection leaders. The main topic
of the session was the resemblance between the
Senate Bill and the British Act of Parliament
of 1876 which purports to check the cruelties of
vivisection, but as British A-V’s know too well,
the Act has been of no real effect.

The gathering was held at the London head-
quarters of the Animal Defense and Anti-
Vivisection Society.

Mr. Hunt in his address pointed out the fal-
lacy of the Bill sponsored by Senator Cooper
and a group of other well-known Senators. He
stated as his earnest belief that the Bill if
enacted into law would promote rather than
check vivisection.

“It starts with a high sounding preamble
but exempts so many types of vivisection that
it would legalize rather than outlaw some of
the most vicious methods of vivisectional
practices.

“Anesthesia is provided for instance, except
. when it would frustrate the object of the ex-
periment. Who is to be the judge of this? Why,

the experimenters themselves, and the same ap—
plies to unnecessary pain and fear as pro-
hibited by the Bill. Nor is any feasible form of
enforcement provided.

“The Bill will probably not reach a vote in
the present Congress but the plans of its sup--
porters are to bring it up again in the next
Congress which meets in January, 1961.

A resolution moved by Miss L. Lind-Af—
Hageby and adopted unanimously by the repre-
sentatives of ﬁfty organizations said:

“That this conference of representatives of
Anti-Vivisection Societies in the United King-
dom welcomes the presence of Mr. Owen B.
Hunt and offers him full sympathy and support
in his strong opposition to the Cooper Bill,
which to a great extent is modeled on the
Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 (Vivisection
Act) under which cruelties causing great pain
suffering and distress have been committed and
are being committed.”

A statement expressing the ﬁndings of the
meeting was issued by Miss Lind—Af—Hageby.
It declared in part:

“In the U.S.A., a Bill has been introduced
in the Senate by Senator Cooper of Kentucky,
to regularise vivisection.

“There is powerful propaganda in its favour.
This Bill is to a great extent modelled on the
British Vivisection Act (Cruelty to Animals
Act of 1876) under which, as all instructed anti-
vivisectionists know, terrible cruelties to labora-
tory animals have been inﬂicted and are
inﬂicted.

“If enacted, this U. S. Bill will lull the
public, consolidate the position of vivisection,

 

 




 

 

ONE HUNDRED FOU RTEEN

 

The A-V—-—————~

 

 

 

deceive humanitarians and spread the belief
that laboratory animals are spared “unneces-
sary” suffering.

“In regard to the alleged ‘startling progress’
of medical and veterinary science, it Will not be
out of place to remember the prevalence of
thrombosis, crippling rheumatism, ever-spread-
ing cancer, poliomyelitis, mental and nervous
diseases requiring more and more hospital
premises, generally defective health. And the
ceaseless call for tranquilisers—or stimulants—
and, as the end—piece, for operations.

“American anti—vivisectionists want to put
a stop to the torment, suffering and misery en—

dured by laboratory animals. They are, I be—
lieve, like so many of us in Britain, convinced
that vivisection, its attendant theories and com~
mercial interests are an obstacle to progress in
the art of preventing and healing disease.

“Let us in Britain, therefore, give every as~
sistance in our power by giving our American
friends facts and ﬁgures relating to the cruelties
and futilities which have been committed under
the Vivisection Act of Great Britain.

“All attempts to adopt similar legislation in

the U.S.A. should be fought strenuously and
backed by the extensive evidence available.”

 

 

g1

Air Chief Marshall Lord Dowding. Miss Lind-af—Hageby and Owen B. Hun’rI a’r Bri’rish

An’ri-Vivisec’rion conference. held in London.

 

 

CONGRESS HAS ADJOURNED FINALLY WITHOUT TAKING ANY
ACTION ON THE COOPER BILL (8.3570). THIS MEANS THAT THE
BILL IS DEAD, BUT ONLY UNTIL JANUARY, 1961, WHEN IT IS
VIRTUALLY CERTAIN THAT IT WILL BE INTRODUCED AGAIN. WE
URGE OUR READERS TO BE PREPARED FOR A FIGHT AGAINST THIS
MISLEADING PROPOSED LEGISLATION.

 

 




The A-V

ONE HUNDRED FIFTEEN

 

Humane Slaughter Methods

The Federal Humane Slaughter Law re-‘

cently adopted by Congress was required to be
in operation September 1. A typical area af-
fected by this law is Louisville, Kentucky,
where a large proportion of local industry is
engaged in meat packing. The Louisville Times

on July 20, published the following account of‘

the affect of the law on the packing houses in
that city.

Most of the animals slaughtered here for
meat never know what hit them. They’re killed
by humane methods approved by act of
Congress.

A law that went into effect July 1 sets up
four methods which slaughterhouses in inter—
state commerce should use to stun animals
before slaughter. The object is to prevent pain.

These methods must be used by September
1, or the houses cannot be eligible to supply
the Government or Government agencies with
meat.

The four slaughterhouses in interstate com-
merce here already comply in all but one minor
case, according to Dr. John A. Ellens, who is
in charge of the Louisville meat inspection sta-
tion of the U. S. Department of Agriculture.
And the one minor case—hogs killed in one
plant—is being remedied.

The plant, which Ellens declines to name, is
now installing the complicated equipment
needed to knock hogs unconscious by electric
shock before they are hung up for cutting of
the main artery from the heart to the brain.
It will be in use by August 1, Ellens said.

Shock Used Most
Electric shock, in which two electrodes are
touched to the head, is used for swine, calves
and sheep. It knocks out the animal for more

than a minute, plenty of time for the actual
slaughter to take place.

This is the method used for these animals
in all four Louisville plants that come under
Federal inspection.

The other three approved methods are use of
a carbon dioxide gas chamber for swine, and
the use of a riﬂe shot or a “captive bolt pistol.”

The bolt pistol method is the most common
one used for cattle, Ellens said. It is an instru—
ment about the size of a large ﬂashlight that
contains a heavy plunger ﬁred at the base of
an animal’s brain. Riﬂe shots are aimed at the
same spot.

In the past, cattle were struck with a long—
handled hammer, the inspector said. “It was
humane if handled by an expert but if the vital
spot was missed it wasn’t. It was humane in
90 per cent of the cases.”

Kosher Way Told

There are seven other slaughterhouses in
Louisville not in interstate commerce, and
therefore not under Federal inspection. They
use the riﬂe shot and bolt pistol method for
slaughtering, Dr. F. M. Kearnes, meat inspec-
tor for the City—County Health Department
said.

He said a few hogs slaughtered here are
not killed by these methods, but “these plants
don’t kill many hogs.”

Louisville’s only Kosher meat preparation
plant uses its ancient method of slaughter,
which is a religious ritual. It is also an ap-
proved method of slaughter under the Federal
law, Ellens said. In it the animal’s head is tipped
back and the Shochet, a specially trained reli-
gious slaughterman, clean cuts through all
arteries and veins in the animal’s neck with a
special, very sharp knife.

 




 

 

ONE HUNDRED SIXTEEN

The A-V

Wisconsin Woman Urges Fight

Against Cnnpnr Hill

A noted woman humane leader, having given
careful study to the Cooper Bill (S3570) ﬁnds
it offers not only no hope of reform in the treat-
ment of experimental animals but is also highly
misleading. Mrs. Marie G. Thompson, Presi—
dent of the Animal Protective League of Mil-
waukee, Wis. gives her conclusions in a state—
ment issued August 3, 1960.

Mrs. Thompson says:

“I have read and re-read the bill many times.
I have searched deeply for some assurance
that it would help the animals, but in all honesty
I cannot ﬁnd any.

“I have seen no willingness to change the
present language of the bill, in fact there is
every reason to believe that amendments will
be made that will even further weaken the bill.
There is grave danger that the bill may pass—
which as things now stand would prove a great
set-back to the humane movement in the U. S.
——hence the need for IMMEDIATE ACTION
on the part of every humanitarian.

“In my letter to Sen. Cooper I pointed out
the fact that I could support the bill as a meas-
ure of relief for the animals only if representa—
tives of the leading humane organization in the
U. S. were on the board of enforcement, but
no move has been made to provide for other
than the autocratic authority of the Secre-
tary of Health, Education and Welfare, and
when that power rests solely in the hands of
the department that is bent upon more and
more research, the very department that is
now setting up extensive plans for the raising
of thousands upon thousands of monkeys for
research projects within the U. S.—-yo'u can be
quite certain that this department would not be

greatly moved by any feeling of compassion
for the animals needed for SACRIFICE to
this modern day GOLDEN CALF or craze

for medical and scientiﬁc research.

Chemicals In Food

“I am not saying that Sec. Flemming would.
not be moved to help the animals—but Sec.
Flemming will not remain in ofﬁce indeﬁnitely
and this legislation would be a law. Even with
all his power and with all his desire to put a
stop to the craze for the use of the chlorinated
hydro-carbon pesticides and the organic phos»
phates that have proven so dangerous to our
birds and wild—life and that have appeared in
dangerous quantities in our foods—even in this
he has been stopped and forces far greater and
with far more pressure that he, have stepped
in and taken over. How is it that we have a
zero tolerance for DDT in milk, but not in
any other food? Simply because the chemical
companies have proven to have far more power
than Secretary Flemming. And don’t think for
one moment that the medical powers wouldn’t
wield the. same power over the Sec. of Health
if a bill such as the Laboratory Animals Bill
ever became law.

“With all of this in mind I come to you
humbly and ask you to understand my former
conviction that S3570 would help the animals,
and that if you, too, believed as I did, or if you
still do believe that the bill will work, to
PLEASE RECONSIDER as I did, and come
out boldly against it.

Let me quote directly from the bill itself:
“Animals used in any experiment which
would result in pain shall be anesthetized so as

 




The A-V

ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEEN

 

to prevent the animals feeling the pain during
and after the experiment EXCEPT TO THE
EXTENT THAT THE USE OF ANES-
THETICS WOULD FRUSTRATE THE
OBJECT OF THE EXPERIMENT, and in
any event, animals which are seriously injured
as a result of the experiment or which are
suffering severe and prolonged pain shall be
painlessly killed: PROVIDED, THAT, UN—
LESS THE PROJECT PLAN ON FILE
WITH THE SECRETARY SPECIFIES A
LONGER PERIOD DURING WHICH
ANIMALS MUST BE KEPT ALIVE FOR
ESSENTIAL PURPOSES OF THE EX-
PERIMENT OR TEST, consistent with this
ACT and the rules and regulations hereunder,
such animals shall be painlessly killed im-
mediately upon the conclusion of the operation
inﬂicting the injury or causing the pain.”

Use Of Anesthesia

“This doesn’t change the situation in any
laboratory one iota from what it now is. If the
scientist, doctor, etc. in charge of the experi-
ment has any degree of feeling for the animal he
isn’t going to let the animal suffer, he will see
that it is properly anethetized and sacriﬁced
under anesthesia at the end of the experiment
without regaining consciousness—but if, on the
other hand, he just doesn’t care, and if to him
an animal is just like an inanimate object, then
no law in the land is going to change his tactics
or reform his moral approach to an experi-
ment—he is the type who will ﬁnd every excuse
to ‘prolong’ the experiment and the suffering of
the animal ‘withoat’ anesthesia.

“As far as housing goes, public pressure will
do just as much as this bill could ever do. This
has proven true in many of our new laboratory
kennels where the housing of the animals is
above reproach. Legislation was not needed to
accomplish this. What did do it? I’ll tell you.
It is the direct result of years and years of
pressure and public exposure by the antia
vivisection societies.”

CRUELTY NOTED IN
GOVERNMENT AGENCY

This letter, signed by S. B. Bellow, appeared in

The Christian Science Monitor

George A. Ford, in his column “Let’s Talk
Dogs,” in the Hartford C oarant, has described
an unnecessary cruelty which the public can do
something about.

Mr. Ford reports that in the sub-basement of
the South Agriculture Building in Washington,
DC, over two hundred dogs are conﬁned in
all—metal, 30” x 36” cages, whose mesh ﬂoors
are the only place the animals have to rest.
These cages are in a room where no- daylight
penetrates; the animals are never taken out for
exercise; and they spend from two to seven
years in this condition. Visitors report that it is
pathetic to see some of these dogs whirling
round and round in their cages, in an effort to
compensate for the loss of natural motion.

The Food and Drug Administration uses
these beagles to test the new additives and food
colors that manufacturers are using, or wish to
use, in food for human consumption. Little or
no harm is done the dogs by such tests, but all
of the dogs are suffering from the cruel con-
ﬁnement.

It is now proposed that this test program be
perpetuated in a proposed new $25,000,000
building for the Food and Drug Administration
now awaiting authorization by Congress. The
plans as originally drawn would provide for the
same small cages in the same type of windowless
rooms.

Representatives of various humane organiza-
tions are seeking to obtain a change that will
provide for humane quarters for the test dogs,
and the Food and Drug Administration is
anxious to comply. But unless Congress directs
the construction of such quarters, authorizes
them, there is no way to humanely house the
many dogs in the laboratories, and the existing
conditions will be perpetuated.

 




 

 

 

ONE HUNDRED EIGHTEEN

The A-V=—-—-=-=-——~

 

BY ﬂWEN B. HUNT

A dispute over the use of dogs for experi—
mental purpose in a Cook County (Chicago)
institution has so far resulted in an apparent
stalemate. The issue had to do with provision
of funds for the supplying of ﬁfteendog cages
for the Hektoen Medical Research Institute,
described as an arm of the Cook County
Hospital.

Daniel Ryan, President of the County Board
to which the bid was submitted, stated, “We
have never used dogs for experimental pur—
poses at County Hospital, and we won’t start
now.”

An attack on this stand was immediately
opened by the Illinois Society for Medical Re-
search. The Society took a typical experi—
menter’s viewpoint:

“It would be ridiculous to ban the use of
chemical indicators that happen to turn blue
instead of pink or some other color. Similarly,
it is ridiculous to prohibit study of a particular
species of animal when it happens to be the
proper animal for such studies.”

This viewpoint could hardly be more cal—
lous. No consideration of pain or agony bares
any weight. Does this utterly impersonal out-
look refer also to difference between human
beings and the lower animals, or is that not
to be considered any more than the difference
between colors of paint.

The dispute ended for the moment with the
disclosure that the funds involved could be
obtained by the experimenters from the Federal
Government without going through the County
Board, Mr. Ryan was quoted as declaring that
he refused to get further involved in the
controversy. ‘

The Dog That Jumped

The story of the dog which jumped from the
twelfth ﬂoor of a hospital in New York and
survived seems to have appeared in almost
every newspaper in the United States. It evoked
expressions of sympathy from thousands of
people.

Little attention, however, was paid to the
dog’s ultimate fate which apparently was to
continue in the same experiment from which
it seemingly ﬂed, so that the “miracle” gave him
only a little respite.

Representatives of the hospital would give
no information as to what the experiment was,
nor what was done to the dog after he was
brought back.

The New York Daily News report of the
incident said:

“A black and brown spotted mongrel in the
experimental laboratory on the roof of St.
Vincent’s Hospital added an interesting, un—
scheduled test to the lab’s agenda yesterday.

“Evidently unhappy with the guinea pig
career to which a dog pound had assigned him,
the terrier-type mutt did a lZ—story header off
the roof, plunged through the windshield of a

parked auto and came up limping but very

much alive. .

A hospital attendant saw the dog leaving the
car and returned the animal to the roof lab,
where two doctors marveled that the plunge
had left the dog with nothing more than cuts on
his feet and legs from the shattered windshield.

“The freedom leaper was also given a once~
over by ASPCA vets, who pronounced him
okay.

Goes Under Fence

“The hospital declined to discuss the nature
of the experiments conducted in the lab. On
hand yesterday morning were eight dogs, the
brown and black mongrel the newest among
them. He arrived only eight days ago.

The dogs were let out as usual about 11:30
A.M. for a run in a wire-mesh enclosure. Some—
how, the mongrel wriggled under the fence—~he
weighs only 10 pounds—and leaped to the para—
pet surrounding the roof. Another bound
carried him into space.

“After falling 130 feet he hit the windshield
of a small foreign car. The car was parked

 




The A-V

ONE HUNDRED NINETEEN

 

 

on the south side of 12 St., 50 feet east of
Seventh Ave.

“The windshield broke and the steering
wheel was bent, but the dog had no difﬁculty
in crawling out through the windshield. He was
heading toward Seventh Ave. when collared.”

Penna. SPCA Backs Bow-and-Arrow Ban

The Pennsylvania SPCA is supporting
Councilman Paul D’Ortona’s proposed legisla-
tion to ban the sale of bows and arrows to
minors in Philadelphia.

Leroy J. Ellis, operative manager, wrote
D’Ortona and each member of City Council
urging passage of such an ordinance.

Vivisection Charged With Promoting
Juvenile Delinquency

A connection between vivisection and juvenile
delinquency is charged by the News Analysis
Group of Deverett, Washington. Their state-
ment follows:

“At an enormous expense to the nation’s
tax-payers, the school children of America are
being carefully trained in delinquency. We
make the accusation in sober earnest, and with
great concern for the future.

“Under the guise of scientiﬁc research an
increasing number of schools, even elementary
schools, are adopting programs of experimenta—
tion on living animals. From the comparatively

mild dietary projects, wherein small creatures
are deprived of food elements necessary to their

growth and well being, as an object lesson in
unwise eating habits, to the inexpressably sa-
distic dissection of living animals—at times only
partially anesthetized—the nefarious program
is accepted into school curriculum after cur-
riculum. If an occasional alarmed parent should
protest it is without avail.
Shocked and Sickened

“Instructors agree that the average child is
shocked and sickened by these ‘projects’ at ﬁrst,
but they announce with satisfaction that this
same child soon becomes ‘avid’ (their word
for it!) in pursuing the subject. At their most
impressionable age, to be subjected to a course
of training which is represented to them as
being approved by the most highly respected
authority, derided by their fellows as ‘chicken,’

normal children learn to suppress their loath-
ing and conform to the routine demanded by
their instructors. Soon, very soon, these na-
turally well-disposed little ones become the
potential ‘delinquents’ who provide our news
mediums with the ever increasing ﬂood of
‘teen—age’ crimes. Some are found torturing
dogs and cats; some, since it is but a short
step from the ‘experiment’ on a four-footed ani-
mal to the human species—adopt a career of
murder, rape, arson, and other unspeakable
crimes.

“What, in God’s name, are the Paren—
Teacher Associations doing to safeguard the
mental‘and moral health of the citizens of to—
morrow? Such pseudo—scientiﬁc programs add
nothing to the store of scientiﬁc knowledge.
Results of each “experiment” are already well
established. Too well established! With our
money, and with our children, then, our public
schools are training delinquents.

“The Schools do not belong to the teachers
and school ofﬁcials—but to the Parents. And so
do the children. Parents; What kind of citizens
do you want to contribute to the nation.”

 

SEE NOTICE OF

ANNUAL MEMBERS'

MEETING ON

PAGE 128

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY

The A-V

 

Silent Language

By Joseph A. Sexton

Stories indicating the intelligence, character
and personality of animals are, of course, very
numerous. Only a little less familiar are the
results of intelligence tests. Some of these show
a surprisingly high “1.9.” not only on the part
of dogs, apes, monkeys, horses, long accepted
as being highly endOwed, but of various others
not hitherto widely acknowledged as having
much thinking capacities.

But in measuring these qualities we are re-
stricted by our own limitations. The kind of
animal thinking that is most highly regarded
is that which most closely resembles our own.
This is, no doubt, an inevitable result, since we
have no other standard.

There may be worlds of the animal mind far
beyond anything that can be reached by the
means ordinarily employed. If we could estab-
lish contact with these realms of intelligence,
probably far more would be gained than is even
claimed for the crude methods of research
known as vivise-ction. These methods regard the
living animal as nothing more than an aggrega—
tion of tissue and other chemical elements. This
is not surprising, since even man himself is not
credited with much more by this same type of
research.

The Universal Mind

Various philosophers have maintained that
all life is an expression of the Universal Mind,
and that communication between man and many
of these forms of life is possible to a far
greater degree than is usually realized. Even
types disliked or regarded with loathing by man
are held to be capable of such communication on
a basis of the greatest friendliness if mutual
esteem could be established.

In “Kinship With All Life,” by J. Allen
Boone ( Harper & Brothers), this possibility of
interchange is held to extend not only to ani-
mals whose names have become terms of insult,
such as skunks, but to the hated snakes, and to
such creatures as house ﬂies, earthworms and
even to bacteria.

This may seem fantastic to those of us who
have hitherto given little consideration to such
possibilities. But in the end, the concept, now
held to be the very essence of scientiﬁc knowl-
edge, that the test tube, the scale and the meas-
uring rod are capable of detecting everything
that exists in life or in the universe, may prove
to be the real fantasy.

Strongheart

Mr. Boone began his career in the study of
intercommunication with the “lower” animals
when he was entrusted with the care of a canine
hero of the motion picture screen, the German
shepherd dog Strongheart. This big animal,
who weighed 125 pounds, had been trained in
Europe as a police and war dog, and it had
been necessary to re-train him, or, as Mr.
Boone expresses it, to educate him so that the
hostility and other traits, undesirable in his
new surroundings, might be overcome.

Training involved teaching the animal, under
the pressure of threats, punishments or re-
wards, to act at his master’s command and
to do things, without reasoning on the dog’s
part, which the trainer saw ﬁt to have him
do. Education meant developing the animal’s
own best self, so that he would express his own
personality and not merely a pattern transferred
to him by the trainer.

To accomplish this, Mr. Boone found that it
was necessary ﬁrst of all to overcome the estab-
lished concept of human superiority and to
approach the animal as a fellow exponent of the
Divine purpose.

The instructions given to Mr. Boone when
the dog was turned over to him advised him at
all times to treat Strongheart exactly as he
would an intelligent human being. He was not
to use a tone of superiority toward the dog, to
employ “baby talk,” or to say anything that he
did not really mean. There was even a recom-
mendation that he read something of good
quality to Strongheart every day.




The A-V

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-ONE

 

Pattern of Ideas

One of the conclusions that Mr. BoOne came
to in his contact with the big dog and with
other animals was that, though language might
be used to conceal thought in dealings between
human beings, there is no such concealment
possible in relation to the “lower” animals. The
human mind, he ﬁnds, has no refuge from the
view of the fellow-sharers of life. He learned
that not only could he convey a complicated
pattern of ideas to the dog by speaking to him
as to a human being, but that a whole thought—
plan, even though unexpressed aloud, could be
communicated to Strongheart, although the dOg
might be out of sight and at some distance.

This was particularly true if the thought
content had something to do with the dog. The
author relates how on one occasion when he
debated with himself whether to do some work
that awaited, or to go on an exploring expedi-
tion with Strongheart in the nearby country—
side, and he decided in favor of the latter
course, the dog appeared moments later and
began bringing the articles of clothing and
other objects, such as a walking-stick, which he
had learned were appropriate for such a trip.
All this without one spoken word.

This and many other examples, Mr. Boone
believes, were expressions of the universal un-
spoken language which at one time was shared
by all creatures but which man has largely lost
through the development of speech. ’

Strongheart soon became not only the pupil,
but the teacher. To achieve this it was necessary
to establish a two-way road and to overcome
the tendency to regard the animal as a “dog”
according to the usual conception. The inter-
change required a readiness to allow the dog
to do his share of the thinking and to accept his
innate equipment of valuable knowledge and
wisdom. The human member of this partner-
ship must be ready not only to convey ideas to
the animal, but to be receptive to such thoughts
as the animal might be trying to convey to him.

One of the lessons which the dog presented,
though this may have been communicated
through the man’s observation of his outward
behavior, was of the advantage of living life

to the full in the present moment, of extracting
the utmost in satisfaction and happiness out of
each ﬂeeting instant.

Indian Ponies

The capacity of the animal to read and un-
derstand human attitudes and thought processes
was responsible, Mr. Boone believes, for the
remarkable relationship between Indians and
their ponies. The man and the animal, in their
common status as children of nature, spoke to
and understood each other through the uni-
versal language of sympathy and love.

A similar understanding, he is convinced, ac
counted for the immunity of the Indians from
attack by poisonous snakes. The aboriginal in-
habitants of America did not have the fear and
loathing of these creatures to which most mem-
bers of the white race are subject, and the
snakes were fully aware of this.

The author recites the case of Miss Grace
Wiley, who was able, by approaching all sorts
of dangerous snakes with kindness and under-
standing, completely to “tame” them. By similar
methods, Mr. Boone established a friendship
with a family of skunks—not of the “de-
natured” variety, but fully equipped with their
much—dreaded means of defense. He reports
on this experience in these words:

“I had no idea that skunks possessed such
excellent qualities, such admirable moral, social
and ethical codes. They functioned as a family
unit without the least trace of parental or
juvenile delinquency. . . . Their behavior ex-
pressed mutual love, consideration, understand-
ing and conﬁdence. They all shared a desire to
help one another in all phases of living.”

Universal Communication

The universal means of communication, he
contends, extend to such creatures as house
ﬂies, and he tells of a friendship he established
with one of these who would meet him at an
exact spot each morning and would come to
him in response to unspoken mental messages.

The book is somewhat disappointing, how-
ever, in that while it recites these instances, and

(Continued on page 124)

 




 

 

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-TWO

The A-V——-—-—-—

The Futility of Bill 3.3570

By M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

“A Bill to provide for the humane treatment of animals used in experiments and
tests by recipients of grants from the United States Government, and for other

purposes.”

There are clearly demonstrable reasons why
this Bill must fail of its object and should,
therefore, be strenuously fought by all inter—
ested in animal welfare and opposed to the in-
ﬂiction of pain and suffering in the course of
scientiﬁc research.

Let it ﬁrst be granted that the sponsors of
the Bill, who are for the most part concerned
with animal welfare but not opposed to vivi—
section, are genuinely convinced that this enact—
ment would appreciably reduce the amount of
suffering endured by the animals experimented
upon in the laboratories. In the following pages
it will be proved to the reader that their efforts,
however well-intentioned, are gravely mis-
guided.

At the outset, we are faced with the anomaly
that the Bill is hotly criticised both by sup-

porters and by opponents of experiments on.

animals, the sponsors of the Bill receiving a
measure of abuse from both sides. So let us
examine the validity or otherwise of the con—
ﬂicting arguments.

(1) The N.S.M.R. (National Society for
Medical Research) and similar groups, claim
that, if enacted, the provisions of the Bill
would seriously impede the progress of medical
science. There is not a vestige of truth in this.
Years ago the legal advisor to the American
Medical Association, Mr. John F. Sembower,
LL.B., when discussing the British Cruelty to
Animals Act, 1876, stated categorically1 that
“all types of animal experimentation performed
in the United States may be conducted in Eng—
land,” the obvious inference being that the
British Act presented no obstacle to the work
of British Scientists. Since Bill S3570 is very
largely patterned upon the provisions of the
Act of 1876, it follows that the former will

have no more effect upon American than upon
British research. In point of fact, the provisions
of Bill 8.3570 are, as we shall see later, con‘
siderably less strict, in some respects, than
those of the British Act.

On this side of the Atlantic, we have the

statement of a physiologist of University Col—
legeMedical School who is licensed under the
1876 Act, Mrs. Grace Eggleton,2 that “the
restrictions imposed by the Home Ofﬁce are
highly desirable, for they afford the protection
of the law against interference from the anti-
vivisectionists. They offer no hindrance to re—
search . . .” This claim would receive the assent
of most physiologists in Great Britain3 To—
gether with similar declarations emanating from
responsible authorities in America, it makes
nonsense of the arguments of the N.S.M.R.
V (2) The main objection to the Bill on the
part of opponents of vivisection is that its
provisions do nothing to prevent any of the
pain, misery and suffering which are the iii-
evitable accompaniment of many scientiﬁc ex-
periments—that which is termed by the scien—
tist as unavoidable and therefore justiﬁable.
It is certainly often unavoidable if the experi-
ment is to be conducted to its planned end
(the solution of some problem) and under
conditions which do not invalidate the results;
but anti-vivisectionists demur from the in—
ference that this renders the experiments
justiﬁable. ‘

All that the Bill could accomplish, if enacted,
would be (1) the elimination of that type of
suffering which is connected with the housing
and general treatment of the animals before and
after they have undergone experimentation, and
(2) the provision of an anaesthetic during
painful operational procedures when this would
not interfere with the validity of the result.




The A-V

At this point one may well stop to consider
what the very presentation of this Bill to the
Senate implies—nay, positively proves. It pro-
vides a clear, if disconcerting and even shock-
ing admission that in the scientiﬁc research
laboratories throughout the States there has
been, and still is at the present time, a vast
amount of avoidable and therefore needless
suffering on the part of experimental animals
which is solely due to what the Washington
Post (June 6, 1960) described as the “care-
lessness, callousness, ignorance and wanton
neglect” evinced by the persons and authorities
whose responsibility includes the proper care
of the animals while under experiment.

The sponsors of the Bill must have accumu—
lated unchallengeable evidence of the wide-
spread nature of this abuse. No one would be
so foolish as to propose legislation against an
abuse that did not exist, especially when to
press for such legislation is to court unpopu-
larity and invite the most bitter criticism from
powerful interests and scientiﬁc authorities.

In establishing this long-contested charge
as a fact the sponsors of the bill have earned
the gratitude of those who desire to expose the
whole shameful set—up of animal experimenta—
tion to the public gaze and seek, as the only
practical solution to the problem, the total
abolition of a practice which in so many in-
stances involves the inﬂiction of an amount and
degree of pain, misery or suffering which deﬁes
computation and beggars description.

It will be useful at this point to give brief
details of the sort of experiments—involving
pain and suffering—which have been legally
performed within fairly recent years under the
provisions of the British 1876 Act and which
would still be permissible under the restrictions
set out in Bill 8.3570.

1. Acute intestinal obstruction (in dogs).
This involved tying-off (under anaesthesia)
different portions of the intestinal canal with
tapes so that nothing could pass through the
body. On recovery from the anaesthetic, the
animals were kept under observation, fed
through a catheter inserted in the intestinal
canal below the obstruction, and in some cases

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-THREE

deprived of all but an occasional sip of water.
This continued for several weeks until the
animals died from peritonitis or some other
acute condition which must have caused con-
siderable suffering.

2. Testing the value of analgesic drugs in
mitigating the pain of extreme heat by placing
rats on plates made of metal and heated to a
temperature of 60° to 70° Centigrade and
noting their behaviour (reaction to pain) be-
fore and after the administration of the drug.
It is to be noted that the temperature of 60°
C. is that commonly used for producing a
standard experimental burn on an animal with
a heated iron applied for one minute.

3. The application of drops of caustic poison-
gas (Lewisite) into the eyes of rabbits, pro—
ducing various degrees of pain, acute inﬂam—
mation of the eye, perforation of the cornea
and eventual destruction of the whole eyeball,
no anaesthetic being given at any stage of the
experiment.

4. Subjection of many types, of animals to
poison—gases, such as phosgene, in glass—
fronted observation chambers or on the open
ﬁeld, no anaesthetic being given throughout the
experiment. ‘

5. The inﬂiction of severe burns on the
bodies of animals, sometimes covering large
areas, by means of hot irons or scalding water,
or the application of phosphorous or similar
chemical. After recovery from anaesthesia,
keeping under observation for indeﬁnite periods
while sepsis developed or some form of treat-
ment was applied.

6. Other procedures, including the preven-
tion of sleep, deprivation of food or water;
subjection to repeated drowning and resuscita-
tion; the injection of septic material or toxic
drugs into muscles, organs, brains, or ner—
vous system; the production of severe shock
by high explosives, by blows on the limbs
with a mallet, or by means of a tourniquet, the
animal being allowed to recover from the
anaesthetic and to live under observation for
long periods or until death.

The foregoing instances could be multiplied
many times over“, but should be sufﬁcient to

 

 

 

 




 

 

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-FOUR

indicate how ineffective the British Cruelty to
Animals Act of 1876 has proved in preventing
severe suffering in animals under experiment.
The American Bill, based upon similar princi-
ples, would be equally futile.

It will now be well to compare more precisely
Bill S3570 with the British Act of 1876, in
order that we may evaluate correctly the pro—
visions of the former. In the ﬁrst place, it may
[be pointed out, in conﬁrmation of what has
already been said, that the Bill, in its opening
sentences refers to its being “the declared
policy of the United States that living verte-
brate animals used for scientiﬁc experiments
and tests shall be spared unnecessary pain and
fear.” (My italics, M.B.B.) In the British
Act there is no mention of the terms unneces-
sary or avoidable suffering. This may be ex-
plained by the fact that in Great Britain scien-
tists have always assumed, and maintained, that
all those conditions such as ordinary care and
comfort, proper food and quarters, were auto-
matically observed5—not primarily for humani-
tarian reasons, but because their lack would
invalidate the results of their investigations. As
Mrs. Grace Eggleton, the physiologist and 1i—
censed vivisector already—quoted“, declared:
“little of physiological value could be obtained
from experiments on animals in acute emotional
distress.” No responsible scientist would dis—
pute this, yet the principle it embodies appears
to be ignored and positively flouted by Ameri-
can research workers. If this were not so, we
should not have had our sensibilities shocked
by the disclosure that hundreds of beagles
undergoing tests of drugs and chemical addi—
tives to their diet were housed in small cages
without exercise or daylight for periods up
to three years by the Food and Drug Ad—
ministration.7

Licences and Certiﬁcates
In Britain licences with their accompanying

certiﬁcates to exempt the experimenter from
the main provisions of the Act are granted by
the Home Secretary, and application for them
has to be endorsed by a President of one of
the Royal Societies or of the Royal Colleges
as well as by a Professor in a University—

The A-V:

usually a physiologist. But under the Bill
S3570 the Whole procedure is vested in the
Secretary of the Department of Health and
Education who has sole power to accept or
reject an applicant for a licence. No provision
is made for any control by medical or scientiﬁc
authorities. This in itself is a most obnoxious

state of affairs.

1 J.A.M.A., October 15, 1949, p. 429.

2British Medical Journal, November 19, 1949, p.
1174.

3 It was endorsed by Dr. P. L. C. Carrier, Chief In-
spector of the Home Ofﬁce when speaking at a
meeting of theAnimal Care Panel held in Washing-
ton, Oct. 29-31, 1959. (See Information Report,
Vol. 8, No. 5. Animal Welfare Institute, New
York, USA. He said: “The Act does not interfere
with the progress of science”)

4For further example, see: Vivisection Under the
Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, published by the
N.A.V.S., 21, Palace Street, London, S.W.l. (Price
6d)

5Mrs. Christine Stevens, a sponsor of the American
Bill, has herself admitted that her personal ex~
perience when visiting laboratories in both coun-
tries convinced her that animals are better treated
in British laboratories than in the USA.

6liri7tish Medical Journal, November 19, 1949, p.

l 4. .

7 See Information Report (Animal Welfare Institute,,
New York), Vol. 9, No. 1, 1960.

( To be continued)

ﬂ
An English Protest

(The following is from an AP dispatch from
London, dated, August 22, 1960.) .
London, Aug. 22—(AP)—— The Ani—

mal Defense and Anti-Vivisection Society
today complained that the two Russian dogs
Belka and Strelka clearly endured fright and
strain during their trips around the earth
in the Soviet space ship.

 

Silent Language
( Continued from page 121)

many others, in which communication from
man to animal was readily conveyed, and re—
peatedly refers to the response from the animal,
it does not tell us very much. about the content
of these messages. After all, what the man be-
lieved came from the animal could instead have
had its source in the depths of the man’s own
consciousness. This is not to intimate that ani-
mals may not have their own thought world;
but that our capacity to penetrate into that
world is still very doubtful.




The A-V

 

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-FIVE

 

HEARD AND HEAD

By Agnes F. Chase

Humanitarians who militantly oppose experi-
ments upon living animals are aware that they
are dealing with an adversary who does not
hesitate to employ astounding inaccuracies in
his attempts to defend his indefensible practice.
So blatant are the sweeping statements issued
by laboratory cohorts that only the uninformed,
or the wishfully blind, could place the slightest
credence in them. For example, the cornered
vivisector will actually declare that there is no
cruelty in vivisection, a practice that subjects
the bodies of living animals to wholesale burn-
ing, scalding, suffocating, crushing, heating
with hammers, drowning, freezing, blasting
with electric shocks, and other extremes of
experimental pain! He will state ﬂatly that no
animal is permitted to suffer, that all are thor-
oughly anesthetized before experimented upon
m—claims that are constantly proved false by
the published records of his colleagues. In other
words, he is willing to indulge in ﬁctions so
absurdly evident as to give rise to the suspicion
that his mental processes are faulty. Even that
well known pro-vivisectionist, Walter C. Al-
varez, M.D., writing in the Los Angeles Times
of January 25, 1960, gives vent to the following
remarkable statement: “I worked for much of
my life in research laboratories, and I never
saw painful operations being performed on
animals without anesthesia. Incidentally, today,
most animal experimentation is done on mice
and rats by well-educated young women”!
(Italics ours.) Now really, doctor! We are not
all morons, and this type of mish-mash only
serves to disqualify other laboratory propaganda
as well, since, as above mentioned, the published
accounts of vivisections—written by the opera-
tors themselves—ﬂatly contradict such vapor-
ings. “Tell the truth and shame the devil” is a
well known maxim that need give his Satanic
Majesty no concern in vivisectional circles.

Although regularly supplied. with huge num-
bers of dogs and cats by organized animal
thieves and wholesale collectors who do a
thriving business in the ﬁeld, the laboratories
are clamoring that they do not receive enough
animals to supply their demands: hence their
attempted forays upon the Pound animals. It is
the habit of this column from time to time to
add to its “stunt collection” quoted instances
of vivisections performed, apparently, solely to
provide occupation (and diversion) for the
operator thereof. Among them, the profound
exploration of the renal function and capacity
of the alligator; the elaborately staged safaris
to listen to the heart—beats of a whale in his
native element; the extent to which a cat may
be forced to jump and twist its body into
“amusing” grotesque attitudes as a result of the
application of sharp electric shocks administered
with electrodes fastened into its brain—to men—
tion but a few. The list already is long and
edifying, and for such experiments as these,
also, more and more animals are needed. Dr.
Alvarez (quoted above) states that “most
animal experimentation” is performed by fe—
males using rats and mice, yet the easily ascer—
tainable truth is that huge numbers of dogs are
vivisected every year in this country alone by
male experimenters and the sweet young fe-
males are relegated to the tasks of administer-
ing inoculations, squeezing milk from the
mammary glands of small animals, taking tem-
peratures and other menial chores beneath the
attention of the upper hierarchy. During the
year 1959 the Wisconsin Humane Society was
forced to deliver to the medical school of Mar-
quette University (Milwaukee) 1,405 dogs for
vivisection. In Tampa, Florida, in one year
(1957—1958) the dog pound was forced to de-
liver to the University of Miami 1,498 dogs;
and from 1958 to 1959 902 dogs suffered the

 

 




 

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-SIX

The [ii-V:

 

same cruel fate. (Bulletin of The National Anti-
V ivisection Society, March, 1960.) Considering
the fact that the dog is the most wanted subject
for experimentation, and that vivisection is
practiced in practically every State in the
Union, the desperate attempts of laboratory
interests to force the enactment of dog-seizure
laws by State legislatures may be easily under—
stood. Therefore, humanitarians must unite to
oppose not only the raids of the ﬁlthy dog-thief,
threatening the rights of organized animal-
protection societies, and those of private citizens
as well.

>I< >l< >i< >l< *

That ardent defender of vivisection, Ralph A.
Rohweder, Executive secretary of the National
Society for Medical Research, has bobbed up
again. In a statement issued to “Science Writers
and Medical Journal Editors” (February 1,
1960) he sounds another solemn warning
against the machinations of anti-vivisectionists
wherein these lines occur: “. . . By—and-large
people do not know how much their lives and
health depend upon monkeys from India, mice
from Maine, dogs from farms in the Southern
states and a host of other creatures from near
and far that serve in medical research, medical
teaching, and for various clinical tests.” (A
statement utterly at variance with Dr. Alvarez’s
conception of the simple usages of experimental

laboratories!) Rohweder also mentions the
existence of a “Test Tube Zoo,” that is said to
be an important factor in maintaining human
life. UnfOrtunately he omits to furnish details
of this aggregation—a grievous loss to the
earnest student of W'hathaveyou.

It is refreshing to learn of a qualiﬁed MD.
who is not intimidated by the spectre of the
American Medical Association. Benjamin M.
Macy, M.D., of California thus expresses him—
self in a letter to an organized. humane society
of his State: “Please let me join in your drive
to curb the screaming horror of animal experi-
mentation. The indescribable fear, the utter
aloneness, the pitiless and unmerciful torture
of these trapped living things must be brought
into the open. i

“We must mince no words to the public.
Words such as burning, freezing, cutting, trans-
planting, all should appear in your advertise-
ments.

“The perpetration on defenceless, terriﬁed
animals. of horrors that rend the human heart
must cease.” This is experience speaking. Dr.
Macy’s convictions are known to be shared by
an uncounted number of his colleagues, and it
is to be hoped that the day will come when the

public condemnation of vivisection in all its

aspects by the medical. profession itself will
abolish the practice.

 

 

Life Membership

$50.00

 

 




- N
T h e A . V W ONE HUNDRED TWENTY save

 

HEADUUABTEHS HEADLINES

’ By Dorothea F. Cooper

IT’S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER

WHEN GOOD MEMBERS get together. A blizzard, so far as we can
ascertain, has never visited our section of the country in the early part of October.
By that time, the very rainy season has passed and the cool, mellow breezes of
Autumn help us to forget the swelter and discomfort of the summer months. That
is why the ﬁrst week in October has always been ideal for our MEMBERS’ MEET-
ING which this year will be one of the most important get-togethers of all time.
It will be an opportunity for all—both the leaders in the movement from all over
the country, and members and friends—to hear each other out and exchange views.
At this point, it promises to be a well-attended affair.

We want more than that —- WE WANT AN OVERFLOW MEETING!

If you are a woman who is timid about traveling alone at night, bring along
a friend. If the weather isn’t as balmy and pleasant as my rose—colored prediction,
transportation in Philadelphia is so excellent that there is no excuse in any kind
of weather. Buses, trolleys, subway trains, to say nothing of taxicabs, stop right
outside the doors of the hotel Bellevue-Stratford. The meeting will be over approxi—
mately at ten o’clock for the convenience of those who must travel distances or make
a suburban train. If you live out of Philadelphia, why not get a group from your
town to make the trip together. Philadelphia is a convention city with ample hotel
facilities which must be reserved ahead of time. We shall be happy to contact hotels
for you.

We are doing everything possible to make this MEMBERS’ MEETING a
colossal success. THE REST IS UP TO YOU! How many in your party,
please, for October 7th. ' .

ONE IN A MILLION

NEWSPAPERS ALL OVER the country recently printed an account
of a dog who leaped from a hospital roof twelve ﬂoors above the ground and “sur-
vived with minor injuries.” He had been scheduled for experimentation in a New
York Hospital. Because our members and friends are constantly on the alert for
news pertaining to our work, they have ﬂooded us with letters enclosing clippings
from their local newspapers. We came back from vacation to that mountain of Work
we predicted in July and cannot acknowledge each of these letters; we wish to do
so here. If this dog was rescued, he is only one of countless thousands of animals,
not only dogs, who suffer brutality every day in the year. Don’t just be indignant
and horriﬁed—do something about it. Tell others with literature and copies of
THE A-V.

IF WE HAVEN’T REACHED YOU with the following letter, it is
because even more detailed work than we realized has caught up with us and we
have not been able to contact our entire membership individually.

Dear Member: Several years ago we ran a campaign which was so successful
that we decided to try it again. We are constantly receiving letters asking “WHAT
CAN I DO TO HELP?” Here is the answer:

ENROLL AT LEAST ONE NEW MEMBER BEFORE THE FIRST
OF THE YEAR.

This may not sound earth-shaking, but if every member sent in another, we’d
have an ENORMOUS LIST of live-wires.

If you need any literature or other material, drop a post card to this ofﬁce.
It will be answered the same day it is received.

A LIFE MEMBERSHIP CERTIFICATE will be awarded to the person who
secures the most members by January 1, 1961.
Start now and get the ball en-rolling.
Cordially yours,
DOROTHEA F. COOPER

 

 

 




ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-EIGHT

 

 

The A-V

We are happy to welcome the following new members who enrolled in The American

Anti-Vivisection Society during the month of August, 1960:

Ashener, Mrs. Alfred

Boissevain, Mrs. Daniel G.

Burchard, Marguerite
Bew, Elmer E., Sr.
Bew, Mrs. Elmer E., Sr.
Berry, C. H.

Brainard, Mrs. Cephas
Berkes, Mrs. Walter J.
Brechtel, H. B.
Baumgardner, V. W.
Banks, Martin

Clark, Gary R.
Crossen, Joseph B.
Carroll, Mary Louise
Campbell, John D., Jr.
Dirks, R. G.

' Dempsey, Mrs. Elizabeth
De Litt, Lillian, L. P. N.
Eaton, Mrs. Stanley K.
Forney, Mrs. Joseph H.
Fish, Andrew J.
Fitzpatrick, Mrs. Edith
Fierro, Bernard

Fenner, Mrs. Corletta M.

Gambrill, Homer W.
Gaffney, Mrs. Francis L.
Hill, Mrs. Harriet
Hauser, Mrs. David H.
Hoey, Patricia

Harden, Mrs. Catherine
Haussmann, Mrs. William
Hulse, Mrs. Pauline
Jones, Charles M.

Joerg, Martha P., L. V. N.
Johnson, Alvard

Kratz, Mrs. Robert W.
Kandra, Albert

Keyser, Mrs. Herman J.
Landvoe, Mrs. Isabelle
Lippincott, Mrs. H. G.
Landis, A1

Laws, Wm. F.

Lindsay, Mrs. James R.
Leidy, Carter R., Jr.
Ludwick, Mrs. Emma L.
Livengood, Mrs. Elvia
Loeb, Harold

Laird, Polly A.

Lenny, Albert B.
Myers, George E.
Melquist, Mrs. Frank A.
Miller, Ken

Newbaker, Bryce A.,.M.D.
Parsons, Mrs. James H.
Phillips, Mrs. Ethel
Prachtel, Joseph

Robey, Mrs. R. M.
Roettger, Doris ,
Savarino, Joseph J.
Schast, Stephen

Smith, June L.

Segovia, Olaya

Skotdal, Nicki M.
Tucker, W. L.

Tisch, Jennie

Tilford, Terry T.
Walsh, Madeline D.
Wall, Mrs. Verna N.
White, Agnes

Wright, Mrs. Frank J.
Yearsley, Elizabeth
Zehnder, Hilda

 

 

DON’T FORGET!
ﬂnr Annual Members’ Meeting

ON FRIDAY. OCTOBER 7, AT 8 RM.

In the Berllevue Stratfor'd Hotel
Broad and Walnut Streets

The Meeting Will Be Feature-d by 3 Symposium in which
Noted Anti-Vivisection Leaders Will Discuss
LEGISLATION AGAINST VIVISE‘CTION

The discussion will be followed by a Period of
QUESTIONS FROM THE AUDIENCE

Refreshments Will Be Served
Members and Their Guests Are Invited

Admission Is Free

THE AMERICAN ANTI-VIVISE‘CTION SOCIETY

1903 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia 3, Pa.

 




 

 

 

 

This is the Shocking Truth . . .
VIVISECTION is Cruel!

I n *‘J at“

”0-14“; .. . , ,‘ ‘
‘ . . , ._ he‘N-‘f‘ " . ‘ .
D m‘ . {(-"f; (:1):- .

«Emma
3?”

WWW»... P

“Wu“

“ "5 4 I L "I a '
.xwauwy;\§%w ~ w

W)

 

Would You Let These Things Happen to MM?

THERE WAS GREAT SYMPATHY FOR "LAIKA" IN SPUTNICK II . . .
' NOW READ HOW OTHER DOGS SUFFER IN EXPERIMENTS.
LEARN THE FACTS. SEND FOR LEAFLET #4—TAKEN FROM MEDICAL
JOURNALS.

READ HOW VIVISECTORS MUTILATE. SKIN. BURN. BEAT. STARVE.
FREEZE. GAS. ELECTRICALLY CONVULSE AND OTHERWISE TORTURE
ANIMALS.

 

 

_I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

_I

THE AMERICAN ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY
1903 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA 3, PA.

[:1 Please enroll me as an Associate Member for which
I enclose $1.00.

JOIN US TODAY
IN OUR CRUSADE
AGAINST BRUEITY

(This I understand will include a subscription to
the A—V magazine.)

[I So that I may learn more facts on the subject of
vivisection send me a free copy of THE A-V and

 

Leaﬂet #4.
:) Name ............................................................................................ |
Address ....................................................................................... !
City ............................................ Zone .......... State .................... I

_._.l
'—__——_——_—_——_———_——_—_—d

 

 




 

a;

..-:,'I« *
.9. M
‘

.u& .m 2 n—
.NHWHUOW 20 .J ﬂan—Em .uuouu
HHU . m «3630
, , ‘ mm~>u> HFZ< Z<Ummm2< mum—Hwy “memmh.
. ‘ . . . ‘ “(DOA—(me

 

 

 

3x<x2ik 3:03.
A. QVi??..b>§4x_ .3)

x! 1.13
:bﬁik 69.x.

111‘

, p629
. 539.39 .
. “43$?

A .\.{%)p.<ll.,\.).
. . , A . . ..,.
vavzrifﬁiw
. $4597. 3
, ,

1.2!. $3?

 

  

 




THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

Ettablirbed a: a lay Society, not repretenting the biemrcby of the United State:

1346 CONNECTICUT AVENUE. N. W. 0 WASHINGTON. D. C. 20086

August 20, 1965

To Humanitarians:

More than five years ago the first bill relating to animals in laboratories was introduced in the United
States Congress. In the intervening years, other bills on the same subject have been introduced. No action
has been taken on any of the measures. With each passing year the animal welfare field is more sharply di-
vided. Organizations attack one another. Their members are confused. Animals suffering 1n laboratories
remain unhelped and unprotected.

The latest attack has been issued by the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, which advocates
the Clark-Cleveland bill (S. 1071 and H.R. 5647), against the Rogers-Pepper-Springer bill (H.R. 10049, H.R.
10050 and H.R. 10213) sponsored by the Humane Society of the United States and the American Humane
Association.

We must reluctantly agree with the Society for Animal Protective Legislation that the Rogers-Pepper-
Springer bill is a weak bill and that its passage would be a major disaster for the cause of animal protection.
The support of the HSUS for the Rogers-Pepper-Springer bill and its alliance with the AHA represent a com-
plete departure by the HSUS from its founding policies.

DANGERS OF THE ROGERS-PEPPER-SPRINGER BILL

The Rogers-Pepper-Springer bill calls for a Coordinator of Laboratory Animal Welfare within the Depart-
ment of Health, Education and Welfare to administer the proposed law. The HSUS emphasizes that the Co-
ordinator would head an independent office within HEW. One wonders why, if the Office of Laboratory Ani—
mal Welfare is to be independent, the HSUS thought it necessary to place it within HEW which, through its
own agencies and the research grants administered by its National Institutes of Health, is responsible for
the use and abuse of the greatest number of animals in laboratories in this country. The previous HSUS bill
(which the new Rogers-Pepper-Springer bill replaces) called for enforcement by an administrator within the
Department of Justice because the HSUS formerly did not believe that HEW could or should enforce a bill for
the protection of laboratory animals.

The new Rogers—Pepper-Springer bill states that the Coordinator shall issue general directives prescrib-
ing humane procedural techniques for certain procedures. When a researcher plans an experiment for which
there is no such directive, and the experiment is not ”compatible” with the section describing standards
(meaning that the experiment will cause pain or other suffering), the researcher simply obtains a special di-
rective which he displays near the animals throughout the experiment. ‘The display of the special directive
will be very helpful in protecting researchers but will do nothing to protect animals.

Moreover, in establishing all the standards and directives for the use of animals the Coordinator is re-
quired to consult with and solicit the views and recommendations of various groups among which animal
welfare organizations would be outnumbered five to one by researchers.

,1
I

RT. REV. MSGR. LEROY E. MCWILLIAMS. NORTH ARLINGTON. N. J.. HONORARY PRESIDENT HELEN E. JONES, WASHINGTON, D. C.,
PRESIDENT *2 DIRECTORS: REV. AMBROSE AGIUS, O.S,B., NEWARK, N. J.. VICE PRESIDENT -- RAPHAEL BROWN. WASHINGTON, D .C..
TREASURER THERESE A. OLSON. HYATTSVILLE MD., SECRETARY : PROF. ERNEST H. BRANDL, NOTRE DAME. IND. FRANCES
COLEMAN NEW YORK, N Y. =2 ANITA HARRIS, HARBORSIDE, ME HARRIET KIRBY NEW YORK, N Y = WILLIAM A NEACEY
CHEVY CHASE. MD. HONORARY VICE PRESIDENTS. CLEVELAND AMORY NEW YORK N. Y. RT. REV. B. C. BUTLER, BATH
ENGLAND MRS ANNE FREMANTLE. NEW YORK N. Y. MRS. WILLIAM S MCCORNICK WASHINGTON, D. C. *
F. A. MCGRAND. MD. OTTAWA. CAN. RUTH SCHREIBER BROOKLYN N Y ALICE MORGAN WRIGHT. ALBANY N. Y.

 

 




 

Inspectors would not even have permission to destroy or require the destruction of animals they happened
to find suffering as a result of a violation of the act. The bill is so badly and weakly written that it would be
difficult for an inspector to maintain that an animal was suffering because of a violation. Even if he could,
he could request authority from the Coordinator (in Washington) to destroy the animal only if no one in the en—
tire institution could satisfactorily explain why the animal was suffering or relieve the animal of its distress.
Animals could suffer for weeks while the inspector tried to reach the Coordinator in the unlikely event that
no one in the entire institution could satisfactorily ”explain” why the animal was suffering.

The bill has also been written with a strange concern for the financial welfare of pharmaceutical houses,
specifically stating that in filing reports on the numbers of animals used and other facts, no commercial lab—
oratory producing drugs or products for competitive sale shall have to furnish information that would jeopard-
ize its patent rights or its ”competitive market position.” The bill unfortunately does not show as much
concern for the suffering of animals as it does for the competitive market position of commercial laboratories.

Further information on the Rogers—Pepper-Springer bill, which shows why it is so had, was brought to
light in a recent bulletin from the Society for Animal Protective Legislation which reported: “Chief archi—
tects of this measure about which we wrote you on July 26th are Jo Morgan, lobbyist for the American Humane
Association, and F. L. “Doc” Thomsen. In a circular letter to his fellow directors of the Humane Society of
the United States, Thomsen describes himself talking with the executive director of an organization that is on
record against regulation of animal experimentation, the Federation of American Societies for Experimental
Biology, as follows: ‘He seemed impressed with my professional experience, particularly my past work for a
number of pharmaceutical manufacturers, and was very cordial.’ Thomsen is enthusiastic, too, about Jo
Morgan’s connection with the above mentioned Federation and exclaims, ‘You may not know that he is also
lobbyist for one of the largest organizations of experimenters! . . . He is also one of the smartest people I
have ever met.’ ”

The American Humane Association has frankly stated that it has met with representatives of research
groups among others in planning the legislation.

DANGERS OF THE CLARK-CLEVELAND BILL

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation in urging support for the Clark-Cleveland bill 'states that
it contains six points essential to the effective protection of animals in laboratories.

Reading of the bill shows, however, that it is full of loopholes and ambiguities. For example, the pain
limitation section (4c) of the bill states that ”animals used in any experiment which would result in pain
shall be anesthetized so as to prevent the animals feeling the pain during and after the experiment except to
the extent that the use of anesthetics would frustrate the object of the experiment, and in any event, animals
which are suffering severe and prolonged pain shall be painlessly killed.” (Italics added.)

Note that under the exception the researcher may dispense with anesthesia in even the most severely
painful experiments if “anesthetics would frustrate the object of the experiment.” Even such extreme imple-
ments of suffering as the Noble-Collip drum (see How the NIH Spends Your Tax Money, Information Bulletin
#2, published by The NCSAW) could be used without anesthesia under that loophole.

Note also that only animals suffering severe and prolonged pain shall be painlessly killed. Those suf-
fering either severe or prolonged pain need not be killed. Even seriously injured animals suffering severe
ana7 prolonged pain need not be killed if the researcher has filed the statement mentioned below.

 




 

Section 4c of the Clark—Cleveland bill also states that “unless the statement on file with the Secretary
pursuant to subsection (h) of this section specifies a longer period during which animals must be kept alive
for essential purposes of the experiment or test (italics added), consistent with this Act and the rules and
regulations hereunder, animals which are seriously injured as a result of the experiment shall be painlessly
killed immediately upon the conclusion of the operation inflicting the injury.” Thus, merely by filing a
paper stating that he must keep the animals alive, the researcher is exempted from having to kill even Hseri-
ously injured” animals.

Subsection (h) of Section 4, mentioned above, requires the researcher to file with the Secretary a brief
statement of what is to be done to the animals and of the object of the work only if the experiments interfere
with the animal’s normal comfort and well-being or if the animal will be permitted to regain consciousness
after anesthesia. Supporters of the bill who have not read it have assumed that the brief statements describ-
ing some of the experiments would be read by the Secretary or his representatives before the researcher
would be permitted to start the experiment.

Testimony by Mrs. Christine Stevens of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation during Congres—
sional hearings in 1962 explained how the project plans called for in 4h would work. After explaining that
the project plan provision had been attacked by opponents on the ground that it would cause delay before
the experiments could be undertaken, she said: ”The truth is that the bill was most carefully drawn to pre-
vent any possible delay. Project plans must be prefiled, not preapproved. There can be no delaybecause
the scientist is at liberty to proceed as soon as his plan is on file.”

In other words, all the researchers need do is file a paper, which will spare them from having to use
anesthesia if they do not choose to or from having to kill even seriously injured animals or those suffering
severe or prolonged pain, before beginning their experiments. No one is expected to preapprove the project
plan paper. The researcher need only file the project plan before beginning the experiment.

The researcher need not even file the paper if in his opinion the experiment will not interfere with the
animal’s normal comfort and well-being or if the animal will not be permitted to regain consciousness if
anesthesia is used. But researchers are not noted for recognizing or admitting what interferes with an ani—
mal’s normal comfort and well-being.

Proponents of the Clark-Cleveland bill cite its requirement for the licensing of individual researchers
using animals as one of its strongest and most effective features. They also favorably compare the bill with
the British Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876. It is significant therefore that a recent British government com-
mittee report on the Act reports that ”there has never been a prosecution under the Act.” The same report
notes in reference to revocation of researchers’ licenses that Hthe extreme course oflrevocation has been
taken in the past but, we were told, has not been necessary in recent years.” No prosecution could take
place under the Clark-Cleveland bill because it does not provide for prosecution. No researcher is likely to
lose his license under it, not because researchers would be reformed by the bill but because it asks so little
of them.

As one of the pain limitation features of the Clark-Cleveland bill, its supporters call attention to the
statement in Section 4h that ”The Secretary may limit the numbers of animals used in experiments that cause
pain.” The aforementioned British report states that under the British Act (on which the Clark-Cleveland
bill is based) ”the Home Office discontinued limitation by number as a general practice many years ago.”

In any event the Clark-Cleveland bill merely tells the Secretary that he
of animals used in painful experiments. Researchers could continue using as many as 10,000 animals in one
burning experiment.

((

may”, not shall, limit the numbers

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

The bill calls for inspection by representatives of the Secretary but gives them little or nothing to in-
spect in View of the fact that the so-called pain limitation sections are so Vitiated by the ”except” and
”unless” clauses cited above. The sum of $500,000 annually which the bill calls for to carry out its pro-
visions is no more inadequate than the bill itself. Even if the bill called for a substantially larger amount,
permitting the appointment of a greater number of representatives to visit laboratories, they would still be
virtually powerless to halt, reduce or prevent even the most extreme suffering.

In reference to pain—relieving care Section 4d states: ”The postoperative care of animals shall be such
as to minimize discomfort during convalescence. All conditions must be maintained for the animals’ comfort
in accordance with the best practices in small animal hospitals.” The latter statement is meaningless; an
animal suffering in a small animal hospital would immediately be given pain-relieving care and treatment, or
if beyond help, painlessly killed. The object of many experiments, on the other hand, is to induce pain or
other suffering and then deliberately withhold pain-relieving care, especially in the case of control animals.
Section 4c ensures that the researchers will not have to follow the practices of small animal hospitals by
freeing the researcher from preventing the animals from feeling pain during and after the experiment if anes-

thesia would ”frustrate the object of the experiment.”

The Clark-Cleveland bill is mainly a housing and related maintenance bill rather than one to protect
animals during and after experiments or to prevent the performance or duplication and repetition of even the
most extreme experiments.

But even its maintenance section (3b) is vague and weak, stating that ”animals shall receive adequate
food and water.” What a researcher considers adequate
the Clark—Cleveland bill researchers will still be permitted to subject animals to starvation experiments last-
ing as long as 65 days for dogs or 21 days for rabbits.

Q! ”

may mean adequate merely to sustain life. Under

Moreover, in their maintenance of animals, research institutions may continue debarking dogs under the
bill. A veterinarian on the staff of a research laboratory in New York state who bragged in an article about
debarking 3,000 dogs need have no fear that he will be prohibited from debarking 3,000 more.

The British Act specifically states that curare (which immobilizes animals, leaving them fully conscious
to pain but unable even to move a muscle or to make a sound) is not an anesthetic. The Clark-Cleveland bill
does not bother to make such a distinction. Under section 4c the researcher would not be obligated to use
anesthesia even in the most painful experiments and would be free to use curare to spare himself from having
to try to work on a struggling animal.

But closing some or all of the glaring loopholes of the Clark-Cleveland bill would not make it acceptable
or effective. It is based on a permissive point of View toward every act committed in research, including
even procedures causing the most agonizing extremes of suffering and having not even a pretense of any ap-
plication to problems of human health or welfare.

The general counsel to the National Society for Medical Research, speaking about the British Cruelty to
Animals Act of 1876, on which the Clark-Cleveland bill is based, once said in an address that ”all types of
animal experimentation performed in the United States may be conducted in England.” Similarly, all types of
experiments, and their duplication and repetition, may be performed in the United States, without limit, ques-
tion or alleviation of the suffering they cause if the Clark-Cleveland bill is enacted. Also similarly, the leg-
islative doors will almost certainly remain closed to more effective legislation for a long time to come. The
British Act has remained unchanged for 89 years. The number of animals used under it has risen from 300 a
year to over 4,000,000 annually.

 




 

Among the experiments. causing suffering which would be protected by the Clark-Cleveland bill in addi-
tion to the Noble-Collip drum and long-term starvation are: long-term water deprivation; long-term restraint,
as long as 15 months continuously night and day, for example; long-term enforced exercise, as by swimming
or treadmill, to the point of exhaustion and/or death; the deliberate withholding, as part of the experiment,
or treatment of 'control’ animals which have been subjected to burning with soldering irons, blow torches or
scalding water or which have been subjected to such chemicals as lewisite; the application of such cosmetic
preparations as hair dyes and permanent wave lotions to the eyes of fully conscious, restrained animals;
massive doses of drugs affecting the central nervouS system, causing in some instances such violent con-
vulsions that animals break their own backs; stimulation of the tooth pulp of restrained, fully conscious ani-
mals immobilized by curare or other paralyzants; the repeated painful stimulation of animals, as by electric
shock, in behavioral experiments in which they are forced to push bars with increasing speed in an effort to
reduce the speed or intensity of the painful stimuli; enforced cigarette ‘smoking’; the beating or crushing of
limbs or muscles and the deliberate withholding of treatment of ‘control’ animals after infliction of the in-
juries; long-term sleep deprivation. Numerous others could be cited.

The Clark-Cleveland bill will do far more to protect researchers from public criticism and demands for
reform than it will do to protect animals from suffering. Those who wish to see the abuse of animals in lab-
oratories continue, perhaps for as long as a century, would do well to support it. Those who believe that
animals subjected to every extreme of suffering demanded by modern experimentation deserve more than a
roomier cage in which to suffer, and those who do not wish to see a legislative roadblock thrown in the path
to reform of the use and abuse of animals in laboratories, should oppose so dangerously weak, compromising
and ineffective a bill.

VASTNESS OF THE PROBLEM

No understanding of the sum total of suffering caused animals in research is possible without recogni-
tion and knowledge of the many factors contributing to the total problem.

The factors include the vast numbers of animals used in experimentation; the numbers of animals used
in individual experiments; the suffering inflicted by hundreds of different types of experiments; suffering in-
duced to such an extreme or prolonged degree or for such frivolous reasons in some experiments as to render
the experiments and/or the implements employed beyond all morally permissible limits; the duplication and
repetition of experiments, with or without minute variables that enable the researcher to defend his experi-
ment as new and untried; the lack of care or treatment to prevent pain and other suffering during and after
experiments; inhumane housing and related non-experimental care and handling.

No one bill could at this time reform all the evils that occur in the name of research and inflict such
suffering on sentient life. Least of all can reform be achieved or even attempted by such legislation as the
Rogers-Pepper-Springer and Clark-Cleveland bills. One of their dangers is that their titles and the material
published by their advocates give the impression that they are omnibus bills; that is legislation which will
achieve a number of reforms at once.

In actual fact the bills are little more than housing and related non—experimental care bills. The bills
make no attempt to interfere in any way with experimentation itself, as their Congressional sponsors have
made quite clear. Yet material giving the impression that the Clark-Cleveland bill will require ”humane”
animal experimentation is widely published by its advocates. One wonders how use of the Noble-Collip drum
and scores of other equally extreme implements and methods which would be permitted under both bills could
ever be termed ”humane experimentation.”

Legislation such as the Rogers-Pepper-Springer and Clark-Cleveland bills is actually harmful.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

SOLUTION

A step—by-step legislative program is essential as a means of beginning the reform of the aforementioned
factors causing the sum total of animal suffering in laboratories. Throughout the entire legislative program
intensive public education — so vital to any reform — could be carried on to inform the public, press and the
Congress of the severity of the suffering of animals in laboratories which obligates any civilized society to
act to prevent that suffering.

The lack of such vital education is conspicuously lacking in the legislative campaigns for the Rogers-
Pepper-Springer and Clark-Cleveland bill. Advocates of the measures seem strangely reticent about giving
the public, press and the Congress documented facts about the conditions under which animals are used in
research.

In the absence of such a program of public information by the proponents of the bills, supporters of the
measures mistakenly believe that the bills will achieve a sweeping reform of everything that occurs in lab-
oratories from the moment animals are unloaded from crates or trucks on arrival to the time when at last they
die or are killed. If one of the pending bills passes — quite possibly being amended and further weakened
before passage — the public, the Congress and press will heave a sigh of relief, believing that the humane
treatment of animals in laboratories has been assured, when it has not.

Through a step-by-step legislative program, on the other hand, the Congress would be aware that each
bill called for a reform of a distinct and clearly identified part of the entire problem. The legislative doors
would thus be kept open for the continuing, sustained campaign carried on in Congress until the strongest
possible protection for animals from all the abuse and suffering to which they are subjected in laboratories
could be achieved.

If a clearly identified bill for the improvement of housing and related non-experimental treatment of ani-
mals had been introduced five years ago it could have been passed by now. The animal welfare field could
now be attacking and seeking legislative and other remedies for the greater causes of suffering: the experi-
ments themselves; the lack of anesthesia and other care to prevent pain and other suffering during and after
the experiments; the duplication and repetition of experiments; the numbers of animals used in individual
experiments.

PROPOSALS

The current disunity and confusion are disastrous to the campaign for the protection of animals in lab-
oratories. More than five years have passed since the introduction of the first bill. No action has been
taken in the Congress. The public, press and Congress are increasingly confused by the sharp disunity in
the animal welfare field. There has been no relief for animals in laboratories.

The Rogers-Pepper—Springer and Clark—Cleveland bills are dangerously weak and harmful. In the
absence of any assurance to the contrary, they represent the only legislative protection the proponents be-

 

lieve animals in laboratories should have. They should therefore be opposed. Opposition should be ex-
pressed by writing to members of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee whose names ap-
pear at the end of this bulletin. Starred names indicate members of the Subcommittee on Health and Safety
which will hold any hearings that may be held. Letters or telegrams to the Subcommittee members, espe—
cially to Rep. Paul G. Rogers of FIa., should be written immediately. In addition to opposing the Rogers-
Pepper—Springer and Clark-Cleveland bills, suggest that hearings be delayed until unity can be achieved
among the national animal welfare societies.

 




 

After the current session of Congress adjourns, which it is expected to do next month, and before the
next session opens in January 1966, it remains for the organizations which have created disastrous disunity
by their bills to attempt to unite in a clearly defined and identified step-by-step program for the real relief

of animals suffering in laboratories.

Sincerely yours,

 

(llama \m

Helen E. Jones

President

 

Members of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee:

*Rep.
Rep.
Rep.
Rep.
Rep.
Rep.

*Rep.
Rep.
Rep.

*Rep.
Rep.
Rep.
Rep.
Rep.
Rep.
Rep.
Rep.

Oren Harris, Chairman, Ark.
Harley O. Staggers, W. Va.
Walter Rogers, Texas
Samuel N. Friedel, Md.

Torbert H. Macdonald, Mass.

John Harman, Okla.

Leo W. O’Brien, N. Y.
John E. Moss, Calif.

John D. Dingell, Mich.
Paul G. Rogers, Fla.
Horace R. Kornegay, N. C.
Lionel Van Deerlin, Calif.
J. J. Pickle, Texas

Fred B. Rooney, Pa.

John M. Murphy, N. Y.

David E. Satterfield, III, Va.

Daniel J. Ronan, Ill.

 

Rep.
*Rep.
*Rep.

Rep.

Rep.
*Rep.

Rep.

Rep.
*Rep.

Rep.

Rep.

Rep.

Rep.

Rep.

Rep.
*Rep.

*Indicates member of the Subcommittee on Public Health and Welfare

All may be addressed at House Office Bldg., Washington, D. C.

J. Oliva Huot, N. H.
James A. Mackay, Ga.
John J. Gilligan, Ohio
Charles P. Farnsley, Ky.
John Bell Williams, Miss.
William L. Springer, 111.
J. Arthur Younger, Calif.
Samuel L. Devine, Ohio
Ancher Nelsen, Minn.
Hastings Keith, Mass.
Willard S. Curtin, Pa.
Glenn Cunningham, Neb.
James T. Broyhill, N. C.
James Harvey, Mich.
Albert W. Watson, S. C.
Tim Lee Carter, Ky.

 




M can. -“- ‘4

THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

1346 CONNECTICUT AVENUE. N. W. 0 WASHINGTON 6. D. C.

April 12, 1963
To Humanitarians:
Six bills pertaining to laboratory animals are pending in Congress.

All of the bills fail to require anesthesia in painful experiments,
the most urgent need of laboratory animals. Most of the bills, in other
respects as well, are totally inadequate.

Even if an effective bill were pending, it is unlikely that it could
be passed this year. The humane movement has not yet enlisted enough sup-
port for adequate legislation. We must place the issue before the entire
public and demonstrate to the Congress that this nation, not humane socie
etios exclusively, demands that the intolerable abuse of animals in re—
search be ended and their humane treatment enforced. Only when we have .
made the laboratory animals‘ cause a pOpular one can we expect to achieve
effective legislation.

The enclosed new folder, ”Without Protection,” is intended to help
fill that need. We are making it available at a price considerably less
than our actual cost in order to ensure the widest possible distribution.
We hope that all who are concerned about the suffering of animals in lab-
oratories will order and distribute large quantities.

How long it will take to have effective legislation enacted can be
determined by all of us in the amount of effort we are willing to put forth,
now, to create the demand for it.

It would be a grave error to rush through inadequate legislation.
Sincerely yours,

Helen E. Jones
Executive Director

DIRECTORS

RT. REV. MSGR. LEROY E. MCWILLIAMS. PRESIDENT. NORTH ARLINGTON. N. J. $9 REV. AMBROSE AGIUS. O.S.B.. VICE-PRESIDENT.
NEWARK. N. J. ‘55‘ EDWARD M. BOSTICK. TREASURER. FALLS CHURCH. VA. $2 THERESE A. OLSON, SECRETARY.
HYATTSVILLE, MD. % PROF. ERNEST H. BRANDL. NOTRE DAME. IND. a; RAPHAEL BROWN. WASHINGTON. D. C.
FRANCES COLEMAN. NEW YORK. N. Y. % HARRIET KIRBY. NEW YORK. N. Y. % WILLIAM A. NEACEY. CHEVY CHASE. MD.

 




l

\. THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

Extahh'xhed as a lay Society, not representing the hierarchy of the United State:

-.-

1346 CONNECTICUT AVENUE. N. W. 0 WASHINGTON D C 20036

October 4, 1965

To Members and Humane Organizations:

This bulletin concerns legislation to regulate animal dealers which was
the subject Of our September 2 bulletin. Please do not confuse this legislative
issue with legislation regarding laboratories.

The bills to regulate dealers are still pending in the House Agriculture
Subcommittee on Livestock and Feed Grains which held hearings on September 2.
As you know, the best bill is H.R. 10743 introduced by Rep. Henry Helstoski of
New Jersey. Our mail indicates that many humanitarians and humane organizations
have made known to Rep. W. R. Poage, Subcommittee Chairman, their support for
H.R. 10743. We are encouraged by that outpouring of support which will be so
helpful to the Subcommittee in determining the type of legislation the public
wants for the regulation of dealers.

 

We now ask you to work for strengthening amendment of the Senate bill to
bring it to the same level of clarity and effectiveness as H R. 10743. The
Senate co—sponsors of the dealer bill (S. 2322) are Senator Warren G. Magnuson
and Senator Joseph S. Clark. Their bill is in the same form as the Resnick
bill (H.R. 9743) which as you know is so much weaker than H.R. 10743. Senator
Magnuson, in addition to being a sponsor of the Senate bill, is Chairman Of
the Senate Commerce Committee in which the Senate bill is pending. He has in-
dicated that he is considering amending his bill to the same form as H.R. 10743.

Please therefore send an air mail letter or telegram to Senator-Warren G.
Magnuson, Chairman Of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Senate Office Building,
Washington, D.C., telling him how much you appreciate his sponsorship Of the legis-
lation and asking him to amend his bill to the same form as H R. 10743. As you
know from the comparison of the Helstoski and Resnick hills which we sent you
September 2, H.R. 10743 is the improved form because it would protect all animals,
rather than just dogs and cats, from abuse by dealers; it would require dealers to
meet humane standards; it defines "humane care"; requires the inspection of
dealers' establishments and transportation and the revocation of dealers‘ lie
censes for violations. Also importantly, H.R. 10743 does 22: call for the li—
censing of laboratories. This is an important feature to prevent confusion.
Purchasing laboratories should not be licensed in a dealer bill since dealer leg—
islation will not actually apply to the use of animals in laboratories.

If you have not already sent your letter or wire to Rep. Poage in support
of H.R. 10743, please do so, asking that only legislation in that form he reported
(and that the Resnick bill pg: be considered). Then write or wire Senator Magnuson
as above in support of amendment Of S. 2322 to make it a companion bill to
H.R. 10743.
Sincerely yours,

Helen E. Jones
President

RT. REV. MSGR. LEROY E MCWILLIAMS NORTH ARLINGTO
. . N. N. J.. HONORARY PRESID

PRESIDENT - ENT « HELE
TREASURER DrIIREggggSA gingMaRg‘Sp AIGIUS, O.S.B., NEWARK, N. J., VICE PRESIDENT RAPHITEE.BJF?ONVSEI’ VvY/ﬁﬂ'u'i‘él—g'ﬁ’ g' g
COLEMAN NEw YORK N Y . ANITA H s ILLE, MD.. SECRETARY . PROF. ERNEST H. BRANDL. NOTRE DAME IND FRANOES
CHEVY CHASE. MD , . HONORARY VléRRIS, HARBORSIDE, ME. HARRIET KIRBY, NEW YORK. N. Y. 'WILLIAM A NEACEY
ENGLAND . MRS ANNE FREMANTTERIEEWEYBOESIQ CNLEYVELAND AMORY. NEW YORK. N. Y. RT. REV B c BUTLER BATH,
F. . . , . . . « MRS. WILLIAM . ' ' ' ' 7,

A MCGRAND. M.D.. OTTAWA. CAN. RUTH SCHREIBER. BROOKLYN. N. Y. . s xLﬁggRugcRKé/ylvuAgvi-IRIPGGHTTONAIPB'ATIY N Y“

 




‘

;§THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

Estabh'thed a: a lay Society, not representing the hierarchy of the United State:

1346 CONNECTICUT AVENUE. N. W. 0 WASHINGTON. D. C. 20036

October 19 65

To all humane organizations:

We enClose a reprint from the Congressional Record of an article from Parade
magazine inserted by Rep. Henry Helstoski and the text of his bill, H.R. 10743, to
regulate animal dealers. v _

As you know from our previous bulletin containing a comparison of the twov
measures, H.R. 10743 is much more effective than another dealer bill, H.R. 9743,
which was introduced by Rep. Joseph Resnick. Additional copies of the comparison
are available from us upon request.

We will make.the enclosed Congressional Record reprints available in quantity,
free, to humane organizations so that they may call H.R. 10743 to the attention of
their members. We will also provide societies with bulletins for mailing to their
members, telling them how to support the measure, in order to assist organizations
that do not have mimeographing facilities.

We urge all societies to adopt resolutions of support for H.R. 10743 between
now and the end of the year so that the resolutions will be available to the
Congress when it convenes in January. The present first session is expected to
adjourn very soon and action on the dealer bills is therefore not exPected until
the 1966 session. Support for H.R. 10743 keeps pouring in and there is very real
hope for its favorable report from committee and its passage if the support keeps
growing. «

 

In summary, please:

1. Tell us the number of free Congressional Record reprints re H.R. 10743
you can use. . ’ _

2., Tell us if you wish us to provide you with bulletins, in your name, for
mailing to your members with the Congressional reprints and if so, how many. The
bulletins will explain how to support H.R. 10743 by writing to the House Subcommittee
in which the measure is pending.

3. Send us a copy of any resolution your Society adopts in support of
H.R. 10743, sending the original to Hon. W. R. Poage, Chairman of the House Agri-
culture Subcommittee on Livestock and Feed Grains, Rayburn House Office Building,
Washington, D.C. ' ‘

Sincerely yours,

PW2.W

Helen E. Jones
' President.

RT. REV. MSGR. LEROY E. MCWILLIAMS. NORTH ARLINGTON, N. J.. HONORARY PRESIDENT ~ HELEN E. JONES. WASHINGTON. D. C..
PRESIDENT . DIRECTORS: REV. AMBROSE AGIUS, O.S.B., NEWARK. N. J.. VICE PRESIDENT ' RAPHAEL BROWN. WASHINGTON, D .C..
TREASURER ‘ THERESE A. OLSON. HYATTSVILLE, MD., SECRETARY . PROF. ERNEST H. BRANDL. NOTRE DAME, IND. ' FRANCES
COLEMAN. NEW YORK. N. Y. * ANITA HARRIS, HARBORSIDE, ME. ' HARRIET KIRBY. NEW YORK. N. Y. ‘ WILLIAM A. NEACEY,
CHEVY CHASE. MD. *- HONORARY VICE PRESIDENTS: CLEVELAND AMORY. NEW YORK. N. Y. * RT. REV. B. C. BUTLER. BATH.
ENGLAND - MRS. ANNE FREMANTLE. NEW YORK. N. Y. ‘ MRS. WILLIAM S. MCCORNICK. WASHINGTON. D. C. a.
F. A. MCGRAND. M.D.. OTTAWA. CAN. ' RUTH SCHREIBER. BROOKLYN. N. Y. ' ALICE MORGAN WRIGHT. ALBANY. N. Y.

 




y

(Not printed at Government expense)

‘ United States
of America

(lungrrs

PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATE

sinnal‘Rrwrd

S OF THE 89th CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION

 

 

 

 

The Problem of Organized Dog and Cat Stealing

EXTENSION OF REMARKS

HON. HENRY HELSTOSKI

OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Monday, October 11, 1965

Mr. HELSTOSKI. Mr. Speaker, every
day that passes there seems to be more
and more attention focused upon the
vicious problem of dog and cat stealing
all over the United States and their sale
to various institutions to use them for
experimentation and research.

In connection with this practice, there
appeared an article in the Parade maga—
zine of October 10, a Sunday supplement
to many newspapers and, here in Wash-
ington, a part of the Washington Post,
which covers this subject quite thorough-
ly in the space limit given to the author
to comment on this problem.

Under unanimous consent granted to
me, I would like to have this story in-
serted into the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
I would also like to have, as part of my
remarks, the text of my bill (HR. 10743)
included with this article so that the
animal lovers across the Nation would
be cognizant of the efforts we are taking
in Congress to combat this evil.

The material follows:

ANIMAL LOVERS: BEWARE THE PET THIEVEs

WASHINGTON, D.C.———Rustlers as vicious as
any who ever roamed the Old West are prey-
ing on the Nation’s pets. Organized dog- and
catnaping rings are stealing animals all over
the United States and selling them to hos-
pitals and research institutions. They are
making millions by bringing heartbreak to
children and elderly and lonely people as
well. These pet smugglers are also guilty of
the most callous cruelty to animals imagi-
nable.

A congressional committee recently heard
one dog-and—cat farm in Pennsylvania, de-
scribed as an animal “Dachau," as horrifying
as the notorious Nazi gas-chamber camp.
Investigators found 700 dogs jammed into a
dozen 10-foot—square pens. One pen con-
tained more than 70 dogs, so closely packed
they couldn’t even wag their tails for their
rescuers. Some 400 cats were crammed into
stacked chicken crates. Dead and diseased
animals lay among the living.

Worse, pet rustling is subsidized indirectly
by the taxpayers. That is why, in recent
years, it has blossomed from a penny ante
crime to its present astounding proportions.

790—601—0153

Originally, dogs and cats were stolen to be
resold as pets or to be returned for the re-
wards. But the increasing use of animals in
medical research has created a boom market,
not only for strays but for any cats and dogs
that can be delivered. Few questions are
asked and fewer answered once a collar has
been removed.

Last year laboratories and hospitals receiv—
ing Federal research grants spent between
$30 million and $50 million on dogs and cats.
More than 1.7 million dogs and 500,000 cats
were sold to tax-supported institutions. One
Federal agency alone, the Poolesville, Md.,
Animal Center of the National Institutes of
Health, spends more than $100,000 a year on
dogs and cats.

With such money in the market, supply
is bound to meet the demand. Result—
wholesale pet smuggling has been reported
in most of the 50 States.

IN GOOD FAITH

Most persons do not dispute the need for
animals in medical research. Immense ben-
eﬁts in human health have come from such
experiments. When laboratories buy ani-
mals for research, they do so in good faith.
Many suppliers are also reputable breeders
and . brokers,

Yet investigators believe the overwhelm-
ing majority of the dogs and cats that wind
up in medical tests are strayed or stolen pets.
Once snatched, they are quickly whisked out
of the State to make tracing more difﬁcult.
To further confuse the trail, they may change
hands a number of times. Most transactions
are in cash with no meaningful bills of sale.
Identifying tags are immediately removed
and destroyed.

Ultimately, the animals wind up at pet
auctions. Sometimes dogs and cats are sold
by the head, more often by the pound. The
going rate is about 10 cents a pound. Pup-
pies and kittens fetch as little as 10 cents
apiece.

The rustlers have become increasingly
brazen as their proﬁts have zoomed and
their smuggling networks have become more
elaborate. One mother in Arlington, Va.,
watched a dognaper get out of his truck,
stride boldly into her yard, snatch a pet
right out of her small son’s arms, then beat
it down the highway. Bravely, she gave
chase in her car and so harried the dognaper
that he ﬁnally pulled up and released the
PuPPY.

But the owners of most stolen dogs and
cats never see their pets again. A 77-year-
Old lady in Utah watched helplessly as a dog-
naper enticed her pet out of her yard. A
wheelchair patient last month phoned the
New York Humane Association to report the
loss of her dog. “Is there nothing you can
do?” she pleaded. Elaine Beck, a Columbus,

Ohio, dog trainer, recently wrote to the US.
Humane Society—~“We in Columbus are hav-
ing such a wave of dognaping we are almost
desperate.” '

The rustlers have many ruses. If the
coast seems clear, they may simply grab pets
off the streets or out of yards. Female dogs
are used to entice male dogs into wire cages.
Meat scraps and dog candy are also used as
bait. A Jacksonville, Fla., rustler painted his
truck to look ofﬁcial, complete with the let-
tering “animal shelter” on the sides. Then,
posing as a dogcatcher, he used phony pre-
texts to take pets from their owners.

Some dealers go from door to door plead-
ing for pets to make needy children happy.
No child will ever see these animals; they
will die on the Operating table if they don’t
die from starvation and cruelty before they
get there. A New York high school teacher,
who rustled pets as a proﬁtable sideline,
trained his 6-year-old daughter to beg for
cats, saying her parents needed them to
catch mice on their farm.

KENNEL GIMMICK

Other rustlers operate behind the front
of kennelkeepers. They advertise, Offering
to board pets while their owners are away.
The hapless owners, upon their return, are
told with many regrets that their pet became
unmanageable and escaped, or had to be de-
stroyed asan act of mercy after contracting
virulent distemper.

Many successful pet peddlers, with money
to bribe, have persuaded keepers of dog
pounds, animal shelters and even humane
societies to sell them pets under the counter.
One dog dealer, who tried to bribe Frank
Whelan, superintendent of the Freeport,
NY, animal shelter, claimed two other Long
Island animal shelters were smuggling dogs
to him. One had used the bribe money to
pay for an addition to his house; the other
to build a swimming pool.

But in Whelan, the dog dealer picked the
wrong man. Not only was Whelan aware of
the cruelty in the illegal pet traffic, but only
a few days earlier, a collie from the shelter,
Shep, had roused Whelan and his wife in
time to pick up their 5-year-old son and
escape from their burning apartment build-
ing. Shep led them to safety. Pretending
to go along with the dealer, Whelan helped
to convict him on a charge of commercial
bribery. *

A veteran Connecticut State detective, who
broke up a dognaping ring and recovered a
number of stolen pets, declared tersely, “I’ve
worked on every kind of larceny, but dog-
naping is about the meanest. It’s tough for
parents to tell a 4-year-old that his dog has
been taken.”

Can the vicious pet rustling racket, with
all its animal and human cruelty, be curbed?

 




2

And can this be done without depriving
medical science of much-needed research
animals? A current bill would require all
dealers to be licensed and inspected for hu-
mane conditions. The Agriculture Depart-
ment would also set standards for trans-
portation, as it does for other livestock.
Dealers would be required to house each
animal for 5 days, which, coupled with strict
provisions for recording the description and
origin of each animal, would at least help
owners to recover pets that have disappeared.

A dog is a man’s best friend, but there are
times when a dog needs a friend.

H.R. 10743

A bill to authorize the Secretary of Agricul-
ture to regulate the transportation, sale,
and handling of dogs, cats, and other an-
imals intended to be used for purposes of
research or experimentation, and for other
purposes
Be it enacted by the Senate and House

of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That in order
to protect the owners of dogs, cats, and other
animals from theft of such pets and to pre-
vent the sale or use of stolen dogs, cats, or
other animals for purposes of research‘and
experimentation, it is essential to regulate
the transportation, purchase, sale, andhan-
dling of dogs, cats, and other animals by
persons or organizations engaged in trans-
porting, buying, or selling them for use in
research or experimental purposes.

SEC. 2. As used in this Act——

(a) The term “person” includes any indi-
vidual, partnership, association, or corpora-
tion;

(b) The term “Secretary” means the Sec-
retary of Agriculture;

(0) The term “commerce” means com-
merce between any State, territory, or pos-
session, or the District of Columbia or Puerto
Rico, and any place outside thereof; or be-
tween points within the same State, terri-
tory, or possession, or the District of Colum-
bia, but through any place outside thereof;
or within any territory or possession or the
District of Columbia.

(d) The term “dog” means any live dogs
of the species Canis familiaris for use or in-
tended to be used for research tests or ex-
periments at research facilities.

(e) The term “cat” means any live do-
mestic cat (Fells catus) for use or intended
to be used for research, tests, or experiments
at research facilities.

(f) The term “animal” means any verte-
brate animal.

(g) The term “research facility” means
any school, institution, organization, or per-
son that uses or intends to use dogs, cats
or other animals in research, tests, or experi-
ments, and that (1) purchases or trans-
ports such animals or certain of such animals
in commerce or (2) receive any funds from
the United States or any agency or instru-
mentality thereof to ﬁnance its operations
by means of grants, loans, or otherwise.

(h) The term “dealer” means any person
who for compensation or proﬁt delivers for
transportation, transports, boards, buys or
sells dogs, cats, or other animals in com—
merce for research purposes.

SEC. 3. It shall be unlawful for any re-
search facility to purchase or transport dogs,
cats, or other animals in commerce except
from a. dealer licensed in accordance with this
Act.

SEC. 4:. It shall be unlawful for any dealer
790—601—0153

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD

to sell or offer to sell or to transport to any
research facility any dog, cat, or other animal
to buy, sell, oﬂer to buy or sell, transport or
offer for transportation in commerce or to
another dealer under this Act any such ani-
mal, unless and until such dealer shall have
obtained a license from the Secretary in
accordance with such rules and regfulations
as the Secretary may prescribe pursuant to
this Act, and such license shall not have been
suspended or revoked.

SEC. 5. The Secretary shall promulgate
standards for the humane care of animals by
dealers. The term “humane care” shall
mean the type of care which a responsible
and conscientious owner would ordinarily
provide for an animal kept as a household
pet to prevent the animal’s suffering, sick-
ness, injury, or other discomfort and shall in-
clude but not be limited to housing, feeding,
watering, handling, sanitation, ventilation,
shelter from extremes of weather and tem-
perature, and separation by species, sex, and
temperament both in the dealer’s facility and
in transportation. The sale, offer to buy or
sell, transport or offer for transportation in
commerce or to another dealer of any sick,
injured, unweaned, or pregnant animal is
expressly forbidden.

SEC. 6. All dogs and ‘cats delivered for
transportation, transported, purchased, or
sold in commerce or to research facilities
shall be identiﬁed by a photograph or by
such other humane and painless manner as
the Secretary may prescribe.

SEC. 7. Research facilities and dealers shall
make and keep for a period of no less than
two years such records with respect to their
purchase, sale, transportation, and handling
of dogs, cats, and other animals, as the Sec-
retory may prescribe. Such records shall in-
clude a bill of sale for each animal and any
collars, tags, or other identifying equipment
which accompanied the animals at the time
of their acquisition by the dealer. The bill of
sale shall contain such information as shall
be prescribed by the Secretary. Any bill of
sale which is fraudulent or indicates larceny
of any animal shall be grounds for prosecu-
tion and revocation of license called for in
section 14 and for the penalty called for in
section 12. Records made and kept by re-
search facilities shall be open to inspection
by representatives of the Secretary or to any
police oﬂicer or agent of any legally consti-
tuted law enforcement agency.

SEC. 8. The Secretary shall take such action
as he may deem appropriate to encourage the
various States of the United States to adopt
such laws and to take such action as will pro-
mote and effectuate the purposes of this Act
and the Secretary is authorized to 000perate
with the ofﬁcials of the various States in
eﬁ‘ectuating the purposes of this Act and
any State legislation on the same subject.

SEC. 9. No dealer shall sell or otherwise
dispose of any dog, cat, or other animal
within a period of ﬁve business days after the
acquisition of such animals. Representa-
tives of the Secretary, any police ofﬁcer or
agent of any legally constituted law enforce-
ment agency shall assist any owner of any
animal who has reason to believe the animal
may be in the possession of a dealer in
searching the dealer’s premises, after obtain-
ing the proper search warrant from the local
authorities in whose jurisdiction the dealer’s
premises are located.

SEC. 10. Dogs, cats, and other animals shall
not be offered for sale or sold in commerce
or to a research facility at public auction or

by weight; or purchased in commerce or by
a research facility at public auction or by
weight. No research facility shall purchase
any animals except from a licensed dealer.

SEC. 11. The Secretary is authorized and
directed to promulgate such rules, regula-
tions and orders as he may deem necessary
in order to require compliance with the
standards for the humane care of animals
called for in section 5 and all other purposes
and provisions of this Act. Such rules, regu-
lations, and orders shall be published within
a reasonable time after enactment of this
Act.

(a) Representatives of the Secretary shall
inspect dealer’s facilities no less than six
times a year to determine whether the stand-
ards and other provisions of this Act are be-
ing complied with. The Secretary shall also
require the regular inspection of transporta-
tion of animals by and from dealers to re-
search facilities and may delegate that re-
sponsibility to law enforcement ofﬁcers of
the States or to agents of any legally consti-
tuted law enforcement agencies.

SEC. 12. Any person who violates any pro-
vision of this Act shall, on conviction there—
of, be subject to imprisonment for not more
than one year or a ﬁne of not more than
$10,000 and to the revocation of the license
described in section 4 and shall not be eligi-
ble for another license under this Act. The
penalty created by this section shall be re-
covered by civil action in the name of the
United States in the circuit or district court
within the district where the violation may
have been committed or the person or cor-
poration resides or carries on business; and it
shall be the duty of the United States attor-
neys to prosecute all violations of this Act re-
ported by the Secretary, or which come to
their notice or knowledge by other means.

SEC. 13. When construing or enforcing the
provisions of this Act, the act, omission, or
failure of any individual acting for or em-
ployed by a research facility or a dealer with-
in the scope of his employment or ofﬁce shall
be deemed the act, omission, or failure of
such research facility or dealer as well as of
such individual.

SEC. 14. If the Secretary has reason to be—
lieve that a dealer has violated any provi-
sion of this Act or the regulations promul-
gated thereunder, the Secretary shall sus-
pend such dealer’s license temporarily, and,
after notice and opportunity for hearing,
shall revoke such license if such violation is
determined to have occurred. The Secretary
shall also suspend temporarily the license of
any dealer prosecuted for cruelty under the
laws of any of the States for the prevention
of cruelty to animals and in the event of a
conviction under any of such laws of the
States, the Secretary shall revoke the deal-
er’s license.

SEC. 15. If any provisions of this Act or the
application of any such provision to any per-
son or circumstances, shall be held invalid,
the remainder of this Act and the applica-
tion of any such provision to persons or cir-
cumstances other than those as to which it
is held invalid shall not be affected thereby.

SEC. 16. In order to finance the adminis-
tration of this Act, the Secretary shall charge,
assess, and cause to be collected appropriate
fees for licenses issued to dealers. All such
fees shall be deposited and covered into the
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

SEC. 17. EFFECTIVE DATE.——This Act shall
take effect one hundred and twenty days
after enactment.

U.$. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1965

 




NATIONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

Ettahh'thed 4.: a lay Society, not repiexenting the hierarchy of the United State:

1346 CONNECTICUT AVENUE. N. W. 0 WASHINGTON. D. C. 20036

February HA, 1966

WIRE, WRITE SENATORS AND THE
PRESIDENT IN SUPPORT OF H. R. lOTA3

Letters and telegrams in support of H. R. lOTA3, the bill introduced
by Rep. Henry Helstoski of New Jersey for the regulation of animal dealers,
are reaching the House Agriculture Subcommittee and members of the House
of Representatives in vast numbers. Here are further suggestions for im—
mediate action:

/

ﬁll/w
/ . ,,

. t/
_ 2%352 2:? ’.

:W’L/

a/

1. Wire or write your two Senators and ask them to support dealer

. legislation only in the form Of—H. R. lOTA3. If one of your Senators is a
3\member Of the Senate Commerce Committee (see enclosed list) ask.him also to
sponsor a bill identical to H. R. lOYA3 in the Senate.

1 .1
“we? '

'1 V
. {,1 .
i I

éz:./v-;

' 2. Wire or write Senator Warren Magnuson, Chairman of the Senate
Commerce Committee, and ask him to schedule early hearings on dealer legis—
lation and to amend his bill, S. 2322, so that it will be identical to H.
R. 107LI3. (s. 2322 is now identical to H. R. 97143, the bill introduced by
Rep. Joseph Resnick,which as you know from the comparison we sent you is
much weaker than H. R. 107A3)

1

[:7

5.? d 1 f)

3. Wire or write President Lyndon B. JOhnson, asking him to give his
support and backing to H. R. lOTh3 for the regulation of animal dealers.

 

c. {y

Aw Wirei or Write your Representative again, telling him.you want
enactment of H. R. 10743, the only effective bill for the regulation of
dealers. If your Representative is a member of the House Agriculture Com-
mittee (see enclosed list), ask him.also to sponsor a bill identical to
H. R. lOTHB.

.J’

 

(,7
. "t

J

/§C%7¢5WV~{27’51292 ﬁéhﬂ4é

5. A bill to license both dealers and laboratories but which would
fail even to begin the reform of either has been introduced by Rep. W. R.
Poage, Chairman of the House Agriculture subcommittee. The bill, H. R.
l2h88, would permit the sale of animals at auction and by weight and thus
legalize a part of the dealer trade in which some of the worst abuses of
animals flourish. "It fails to define humane standards for the handling and é
transportation by dealers or laboratories; fails to prohibit the sale and 1
transportation Of sick, injured, unweaned or pregnant animals; fails to
. require dealers to have bills of sale as proof of legal acquisition of 3
. animals; fails to require inspection of dealers' facilities and transporta— g
tion; calls for a fine of only $500 for dealers or laboratories operating 1
‘ without a license and fails to require the revocation Of dealers' licenses
for violations. Mbreover, the bill would license laboratories although
the measure specifically excludes the handling of animals during research
or experimentation. It is unnecessary and harmfully confusing to license
laboratories in a dealer bill. Separate and clear legislation is needed
to protect animals from abuse (l)'by dealers and (2) in laboratories.

r.

39% g; 6

 

\_
\,
\
\J ..
‘i
“'4
i
a;

9‘ A, .
V

"eébﬁrﬂéf”

9ZQ¢W7AL égg;

. . i, 2“ I.
Ey;¢5h¢’ﬂ1v%(~

“mum.- .... .4. . .__.........
Ova m. .
.. a. «mi-mm - .

x
i

a- G
if
v’
WWW“ v'

 

Wire or write Rep. W. R. Poage, telling him you want H. R. 107A3
for the regulation of dealers, not H. R. l2A88.

OOO

 

RT. REV. MSGR. LEROY E. MCWILLIAMS. NORTH ARLINGTON. N. J., HONORARY PRESIDENT 8 HELEN E. JONES, WASHINGTON. D. C..
PRESIDENT . DIRECTORS: REV. AMBROSE AGIUS, O.S.B.. NEWARK, N. J.. VICE PRESIDENT 4* RAPHAEL BROWN. WASHINGTON. D .C..
TREASURER 1- THERESE A. OLSON. HYATTSVILLE, MD., SECRETARY ., PROF. ERNEST H. BRANDL. NOTRE DAME, IND. ’3 FRANCES
COLEMAN, NEW YORK. N. Y. ‘ ANITA HARRIS, HARBORSIDE, ME. ' HARRIET KIRBY, NEW YORK, N. Y. * WILLIAM A. NEACEY.
CHEVY CHASE. MD. ' HONORARY VICE PRESIDENTS: CLEVELAND AMORY. NEW YORK. N. Y. * RT. REV. B. C. BUTLER. BATH.
ENGLAND ~ MRS. ANNE FREMANTLE. NEW YORK. N. Y. ° MRS. WILLIAM S. MCCORNICK, WASHINGTON. D. C. “
F. A. MCGRAND. M.D.. OTTAWA. CAN. . RUTH SCHREIBER. BROOKLYN. N. Y. ’9 ALICE MORGAN WRIGHT. ALBANY. N. Y.

 




SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE

Warren G. Magnuson, Wash., Chairman
John O. Pastore, R. I. Hon. Norris Cotton, N. H.
A. S. Mike Monroney, Okla. Hon. Thurston B. Morton, Ky.
Frank J. Lausche, Ohio Hon. Hugh Scott, Pa.
. Edward L. Bartlett, Alaska Hon. Winston L. Prouty, Vt.
. Vance Hartke, Ind. Hon. James B. Pearson, Kan.
. Gale W. MCGee, Wyo. Hon. Peter H. Dominick, Colo.
Philip A. Hart, Mich.
Howard W. Cannon, Nev.
Daniel B. Brewster, Md.
. Maurine B. Neuberger, Ore.
. Ross Bass, Tenn.

HOUSE AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE

Hon. Harold D. Cooley, N. 0., Chairman
Hon. W. R. Poage, Tex. Hon. Paul B. Dague, Pa.
Hon. E. C. Gathings, Ark. Hon. Page Belcher, Okla.
Hon. John,In MbMillan, S. C. Hon. Charles M. Teague, Calif.
Hon. Thomas G. Abernethy, Miss. Hon. Albert H. Quie, Minn.
Hon. Watkins Ml Abbitt, Va. Hon. Catherine May, Wash.
Hon. Paul C. Jones, Mo. Hon. Delbert L. Latta, Ohio
Hon. Harlan Hagen, Calif. Hon. Ralph Harvey, Ind.
Hon. Frank A. Stubblefield, Ky. Hon. Paul Findley, Ill.
Hon. Graham Purcell, Tex. . Hon. RObert Dole, Kan.
Hon. Laurence J. Burton, Utah
Hon. James H. Morrison, La. Hon. Prentiss Walker, Miss.
Hon. Alec G. Olson, Minn.
Hon. Spark M. Matsunaga, Hawaii
Hon. Maston O’Neal, Ga. _
Hon. Thomas S. Foley, Wash.
Hon. Joseph Y. Resnick, N. Y.
Hon. Lynn E. Stalbaum, Wis.
Hon. Eligio de la Garza, Tex.
Hon. Joseph P. Vigorito, Pa.
Hon. John C. Mackie, Mich.
Hon. Rolland Redlin, N. D. * Chairman, Agriculture
Hon. Bert Bandstra, Iowa subcommittee on
Hon. Stanley L. Greigg, Iowa Livestock
Hon. Clair A. Callan, Neb.
Hon. Santiago Polanco-Abreu, P.R. ** Member, Agriculture Sub-
committee on Livestock

Address Senators at the Senate Office Bldg., Washington, D. C.
Address Representatives at the House Office Bldg., Washington, D. C.

 




-

Telephone NOrmaI 7-0088

MRS. M. D. RAVENSCROFT -. . _ﬁ _ p _ 9_ MR. ALLEN A. GLISCH

Honorary Presidenf a'ﬂ'm _ ..... 1-?" I=?;_.._.__——-—.._ ,_-_ Manager

'3‘. *7 k 9 Y .‘
MRS. JOSEPH BRENNEMANN 'j: j LUNOIS [EricéoﬂlﬂﬁoYXEI-FA . I MRS. FRANCIS J. FINERoN
- « w- -~-- -. 7 __.. am... We...

Honorary Vice Presidenf

 

MISS MILDRED FlTZ-HUGH _ .-l MR. CHARLES WAIGAND

Presidenf Humane Officer

 

MISS ALLA E. STADNICK ~_ . _ :. _ “ 1 Ix. ' ' MR. ROY PATNODE
-Firsf Vice Presidenf _... . .. . ' '"."7"‘._ 5.1 _ _.__ __ . ﬂ. ”:3 I I ,5." " I ' Dispafcher
-- . - ~ _- I. . I" . ‘ J" an} ., :~.

.41 ' m-__ "’- I ' ' , z. .7
MRS. FRANCIS PERRY . ' ;_ . ‘ ' ~ . 7- ‘IQIIIALI'III. w .- MRS. HARRY s. STOFFELS

Second Vice Presidenf 7 ~" =..~—,' '- “‘5: 4 -J _,.,_ t ' -— ' ' , Secrefary

 

 

 

MRS. ALBERT MUNCH "‘ ‘ MR. FRED L. CHURCH

Third Vice Presidenf ANIMAL REFUGE Treasurer

6224 SOUTH WABASH AVE., CHICAGO 37I ILL.
MR. JACOB AUER

Affiliafed wifh Chicago and Cook Counfy Federafion of Womens Organizafions Audifor

BOYLE AND FRIEDMAN
Counsel

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

In reply to your letter of Sept. 26th, I have not been able to locate
a Cpr of the original Arvey ordinance but that ordinance was substantially
if not exactly as given in the first sentence (nine lines) of the
Section of the.Municipal Code of Chicago that I sent you.

Regarding the ruling of the Corporation Counsel, I don't have a.copy of
that either..Mrs. Rutson received it as she represented us on the Bundensen
Committee at that time. She died soon afterwards. She Was a wonderful
humanitarian, fairly young, quite beautiful, and with emotional poise.As
she appeared to be very strong her death (in her sleep) came as a shock.

I imagine you read her report on laboratory conditions as she found them.

It was circulated in 51. The ruling was simply to the effect that only

the Committee as a whole could inspect. I recall several visits I made to the
office of the Corporation Counsel to protest the ruling.

Regarding the amendment I proposed, I don't for a moment feel somebody
ﬂelse couldn't come up with a much better one but I cannot see that it
would be unfair tojﬁose mean in research who give their animals proper
consideration. And after all, I am sure your desire is to provide some
protection for the animals. Doctors would have back of them the Dept. of
Health, Education and welfare. Also, the veterinarian who accompanied a
representative of a Humane Society, would be far more apt to side with
the medical than with the Animal Welfare Representative.

Sincerelyryours,

,1 ‘I; A’j Ii "I" .. ‘7 .. I ,F. _ Zwmunu g (I j
I I V‘ 3 .» -..r- M L): [dun-9" ' k. h H I w-

l

Mildred Fitz4yugh

Oct. 9~SO

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

MRS. ROGER BRONSON MRS. HANS JOHNSON MRS. ALBERT MUNCH MISS VIVIAN PORCH
MR. FRED L. CHURCH ‘ MRS. OWEN B. JONES MRS. WESLEY NEWBERG MRS. LESTER ROHRER
MRS. EDWARD J. CREMERIUS MRS. ROSE KOSTLEVY MRS. BARRY NOLAN MISS PHYLLIS SMETANA

MISS MILDRED FITZ-HUGH MR. GEORGE T. MARTIN MRS. FRANCIS PERRY MISS ALLA E. STADNICK
MRS. HARRY S. STOFFELS

 




Imatwdi’m1s1m

‘ ~ 3133111113 26311960-

11111 1111111 ﬁts-Haw

, Ianaia 611111211“ 1:25.113. 11111“ 111 3311111
6221; 811112 13111111 1112111 "

31111111 37, 211111011;

1311 1111 15.11.1131, ‘

I 111 1111 111111111 1m 1111 11111 1‘11 111 111111 11' 111 1:13:11 11"
1111111111 11 the 111711 1' M71111. I 2111 11113:» 11111 1111 111111
but 11.11311 11111111 that. 1.11? 31111111}. 1111113: 111* 11111113. 111111111
2111 1111111111 11: 1111 111111111 11 3331, I1 3111 by: 1111' 111111 111111 , 3
1 1013' 11‘ 1111 111311111 1111' 011111111 11111 I 113311 111111 1111 11 1.“ .

.' 1333 333333 1112: 11 ’11 11? 1’1 :11 11311111 11- 11111 1311 1111 1111‘: WWW {III
:1 1’:

11111 1211 1111111111 3:11.11: 1111113; +111 111111111111 - I1 1111 111111 1 ‘
1113 11’ 111 1111131 11’ “1:11 61111111111 {1111111, 111, 11111: 311111. 11

g ' , 11111: 31131 11:: 1111111111 that 1111111111 11111111 3111 1‘11]. 111111 11311
1111 611111: MI} 11113: fighting 11:11. I 11 1111 1.1 1111 1'15 111.311 I
133111 11” .11 1:1” 11111; 11. 11113.1 15:31 1.12:7] 11111 I1 3111. I111 111111 113: , j
I; 111111: 1’1 11123.1 111: 1:11; ’11 11111 11 3111 but 11111 1111 151 11311 111111 "
‘11111 11: 1 111111111 1115.111 11 111 1111111 11 111 1111 IIII 11:11:11

, '11 111111111 11 11111; 1211111 11 1 111I «11111111 11‘ 11111111111 11 1‘11 3
1 It 11131 13111 1311 111:0 111 11111111 1.111111 111 by 3111111 1111 11112.1 '11
11 3111111111 11 1111.11“? 1m1111 11’ 11 11111133: 2113.31ng 111313.11. It I
' 1'1 11111 11111111111111.1133 11111111 11111 1111 “1111 1131 11111 111 11 :11: 3*)

53:11:11 11‘ 1111111111 1111113. 11111111 II 1111 1111111 111 111111 31.111

3 1111111 1111 1111 1131111111 11111111 11 332311111 1111111111111 11111111
- -. .1111 1111 1111 11’ 111111 1111 1’11]. 111 £1111 11 311 11111 :1 1111

V" ‘7 51111.11.

3 ' I 11 1111 3111* 111.111 11 111 1 1111111111 111‘. 111111 I

. 111111 1111: 3111 11111 11111 11311114 11 11 121111 1211111111 1:1 1’15 11% c. .
. 111111111 11: 1111112113 1211111111. . “1111 11. vital. I 1.2111111 11111113. 3 .
1111111111 11111 1:11 111-1 31111111113 but 11133111; 11111 113311 121 11111111, *

, I 1111 1111 111111111 111- the: 1111 1111111 1111 1:1 11 111 111

to the ruling that. 1111 111111 (31th 1111 to be 11 1,1111 11 1111111 ~ ° 3
. 11: 11111 ‘ «~11 about 1211111111111 11 11131111? 311191 11111 1.111 b .3 . ’
111111 11 MW 11‘ the WWW”? 4 ' . , '

‘ »' y'jﬁamﬂﬁwwm’amwy

 




MRS. M. D. RAVENSCROFT
Honorary President

MRS. JOSEPH BRENNEMANN
Honorary Vice President

MISS MILDRED FITZ-HUGH
President

MISS ALLA E. STADNICK
First Vice President

MRS. FRANCIS PERRY
Second Vice President

MRS. ALBERT MUNCH
Third Vice President

Telephone NOrmal 7-0088

 

$-

 

' ' ﬂ
/ —'

ILLINOIS CITIZEIQR’AEIM LYIIELFARE LEAGUE

 

NOT FOR PR

.— .2,

. g x

‘1" mg ~I~‘Z1 .3 I. 'HVL/‘i"
1' My: 1' ‘ t " 1I'JIIIJI\'I [III-IIFéC
’ .' . . 1 ‘ _. I-I i! ‘l
w ﬂu - H a i I’ :1" EC:- m E J; in .U; i I ‘Lﬁu ___
' ‘II I ”II -'-

. I 1

z~‘=-'lé;;‘- I ' , _ _
elm MIMI-*1 . V_ II _..-‘Il’.!

. I ' I -
“ﬁnal-L; - -’
I
I

I

I
m

I
I
I
I

 

 

4’ I? ' I!

_.; . III “ “‘

 

 

 

\';><.IL'>

/ ‘. ‘ I:
WWII"!
M

 

ANIMAL REFUGE
6224 SOUTH WABASH AVE., CHICAGO 37, ILL.

MR. ALLEN A. GLISCH
Manager

MRS. FRANCIS J. FINERON
Office Manager

MR. CHARLES WAIGAND
Humane Officer

MR. ROY PATNODE
Dispatcher

MRS. HARRY S. STOFFELS
Secretary

MR. FRED L. CHURCH
Treasurer

MR. JACOB AU ER

BOYLE AND FRIEDMAN

Counsel Affiliated with Chicago and Cook County Federation of Womens Organizations Auditor

Maj 2.7. ~ 1.2.62

Thank you for your letter of Sept. 15th. Because of your tune and.mine
I will only attempt to answer the questions you raise pertaining to our
situation in Chicago. The original Arvey ordinance was an A.M.A. project
passed in.Dec. of El or 32, I forget which. In *5 Mr. Hearst attempted to
knock out this ordinance and got pretty far but failed his objective. The
amended ordinance I sent you was only accepted by the N.S.M.R. as a
better alternative than law- ' heir prgggggment rights but they were
never in the least cOOperdrive about it and Only paid lip service to the
rules during Mr. Hearst's life time for fear of adverse publicity. After
héﬁ death they got the corporation Counsel to rule that onLy the Committee
as a whale could make inspections. That killed inspections.

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

As to inspecting records in the City Hall, our first representative
on the Advisory Committee did this and I felt it was a waste oﬁ time. I
remember that a number of reports read as follows;— Discription of dog
"Bastard.W‘ Disposition of animal~ "Ashcan." Some of the reports on the
other hand sounded very correct but to us they told nothing. They didn't
indicate how the animal was kept and treated and whether it got any post
Operative care.

Your ask for any suggestion on Amendments to your bill. I hgnw that

any such changes which.would make us feel the bill was worth fighting for,
would kill all chances of passage. On the otherhand, I believe publicity
on it would help arouse the public and until that is done I don't think
we are going to see any real reforms in the Laboratories. Here is a
suggested amendment.

The Board or Staff member of any Society incorporated for the Prevention I
of Cruelty to Animals, shall be permitted to inspect at any time the 3
animal quarters of any medical institution receiving federal funds, when 5
accompanied by a veterinarian licenSed under the laws of the state in j
‘hich the laboratory is located." /

I feel your father and Air Chief Marshall Lord Dovsding have taken
the most signaficant stand in the past decade against laboratory cruelties
and with all my heart I wish I could advise our members to support your bill,

ileum" W “I? 1M "“ ‘

Sincerely.yours.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

MISS VIVIAN PORCH
MRS. LESTER ROHRER
MISS PHYLLIS SMET'ANA
MISS ALLA E. STADNICK
MRS. HARRY S. STOFFELS

MRS. ALBERT MUNCH
MRS. WESLEY NEWBERG
MRS. BARRY NOLAN
MRS. FRANCIS PERRY

MRS. HANS JOHNSON
MRS. OWEN B. JONES
MRS. ROSE KOSTLEVY
MR. GEORGE T. MARTIN

MRS. ROGER BRONSON

MR. FRED L. CHURCH

MRS. EDWARD J. CREMERIUS
MISS MILDRED FITZ-HUGH

 




\

T°‘°P“°QQ:XMUrray Hillih-uas'l
1,", L L x 1 its"

Vivisecrion Investigation League
ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY OF NEW YORK Inc.

H EAST FORTY-FOURTH STREET
NEW YORK I7, NEW YORK

Founder and First President
Mrs. Clinton Pinckney Farrel!

September 18, 1960

Mrs. Flora Lea
536 Burlington Street
Paramus, N. J.

Dear Mrs. Lea:

Have you read the Cooper bill? Or any analysis of it
by societies Opposing it?

I think you must be aware that such knowledgeable and
dedicated animal welfare societies as the Humane Society
of the United States and the National Catholic Society
for Animal Welfare, which, though concerned with the
cruelties of the laboratories, are not abolitionist
societies, are Opposed to the Cooper bill.

I am enclosing some material for your consideration and
study which will serve to inform you on the reasons for
our position.

Sincerely yours, ’ f“ /.
, N f

i'

'" 5 MW "”?~A” ”if
, x? . ,. . \ W}
;f;uww.," [fan ("#7 '1? ”1 “ﬂ ' “ WWI/yd" g L4 W I;
t? Harriet Kirby
Secretary

 




 

Statement by the Board

By R. J. CHENOWETH

President, the Humane Society of

The United States

The Directors of The Humane So-
ciety of the United States have author-
ized me to make the following state-
ment on their behalf, concerning a bill
(S. 3570) introduced recently in the
US. Senate by Senator Cooper of Ken-
tucky. The bill is officially titled as
being “to provide for the humane treat-
ment of animals used in experiment and
tests by recipients of grants from the
United States Government, and for other
purposes.”

The bill was drafted by the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation, New

York City.
The HSUS holds that cruelty is im-

moral regardless of the pretext for it.
Our membership, in a national referen-
dum conducted afew years ago, de-
clared it to be fundamental HSUS policy
to oppose and to seek to prevent all uses
of animals that cause pain, suffering,
or fear. The HSUS Board of Directors
adheres to that policy. '

We think that it would be also im-
moral, however, to refuse to rescue a
single animal from suffering, merely be-
cause we cannot abolish all suffering.
We do not reject humane progress, even
if progress does not immediately attain
the ultimate objectives of our ideals.
The HSUS will always support any legis-
lation and any action that will genuinely
prevent cruelty and suffering.

The practical application of these
principles in the present instance is that
The HSUS would support S. 3570 if the
proposed law actually and dependably
would prevent or decrease cruelty and
suffering, but. the bill does not satisfy
those requirements and we cannot sup-
port the bill as it now stands.

As every active American humani-
tarian knows, The HSUS is aggressively

fighting cruelty in research laboratories.
The Society has spent tens of thousands
of dollars in the last three years on
investigations behind the “iron curtain”
that is ﬁercely guarded by most labora-
tories where animals are used, on court
action against laboratories, and on edu-
cational activities designed to give facts

to the public and to legislators.

It is largely our own experience that
tells us that S. 3570 would be an ineffec-
tive law and might even protect those
who are guilty of cruelty rather than
control them.

The State of California, where The
HSUS kept an investigator inside the
laboratories of two medical schools for
many weeks and where the Society is
presecuting complaints against both of
those schools, has a law designed to pro-
tect laboratory animals thatis in many
respects seemingly stronger than S.
3570. Yet, although the California
statute has been lawfor nearly ten years,
it never has been enforced. The Cali-
fornia law never has saved a single ani-
mal from suffering. And, evenéwthough
The HSUS has spent many thousands of
dollars trying to get the law enforced,
California laboratories and California
state authorities still are successfully re-
sisting enforcement.

The fatal flaw in the California statute
is that enforcement is the responsibility
solely of the State Department of Health.
The Department of Public Health, of
course, is headed, staffed and controlled
by men who are products and allies of
the laboratories that they are supposed
to police. Even granting that the officers
and staff of the Department of Public
Health are honest men and that they
intend to abide by the law, they are all
thoroughly inured to cruelty to animals
in research laboratories and they regard
many cruelties as “normal” and unob-
jectionable. They subconsciously, even
if not deliberately, interpret the Cali-
fornia anti-cruelty law to ﬁt their own

ideas of what they feel that the law
should say.

S. 3570 repeats the fault of the Cali-
fornia law. The power to enforce the
prOposed Federal law would exist exclu-
sively with the Secretary of Health,
Education and Welfare. In practice,
that would place all of the enforcement
machinery in the hands of animal-using
research workers of the National Insti-
tutes of Health and the Surgeon Gen-
eral’s office. If past and present routines
and policies were followed, the Secre-
tary, the Surgeon General and the NIH
would ask and accept “advice” of other
animal-using research workers in medi-
cal school laboratories throughout the
country. That is the procedure that
HEW now follows in making grants of
Federal funds for research projects. In.
actual effect, S. 3570 would set the labo-
ratories to policevthemselves and would
operate to prevent all other kinds of
investigation and law enforcement.

The pending Federal law has other
faults—serious faults—but we would
reject it for the weakness of the proposed
enforcement machinery if for no other
reason. Our own experience tells us that
S. 3570 would not and could not be

enforced.

A law of this kind that cannot be en-
forced, we point out, is not merely a
negative evil. Such laws can and do
protect cruelty. The California law dis-
cussed above, the Metcalf-Hatch act in
New York, the Wisconsin and Minnesota
animal-seizure acts—all operate to assure
the public that animals are being pro-
tected from cruelty. The assurance is
false but the laws make ordinary anti-
cruelty prosecutions Virtually impos-
sible. S. 3570, in our opinion, would
have the same effect.

On the other hand, neither is the ab-
sence of a law against cruelty to animals
in laboratories merely a negative evil.
The general public reasonably concludes,
if there exists no law against anything
that happens in laboratories, and if
humane societies demand none, that no
cruelty occurs. Absence of a prohibi-

(Continued on page 10)

 




HSUS Wins Injunction Against
Public Dog Shootings in Ohio

County Commissioners and dog ward-
ens of Lorain County, Ohio, were or-
dered on May 18 by the Court of
Common Pleas in Lorain to stop shoot-
ing dogs on the streets and in other
public places.

The order resulted from a petition for
temporary and permanent injunctions
ﬁled by attorneys for The Humane So-
ciety of the 'United States in the name
of several citizens of Lorain County.
The Lorain Humane Society cooperated
in the action.

Dog wardens of the county, acting
under orders from their superiors, have
been shooting dogs wherever found, al-

though Ohio state law says that dogs
at large in violation of any law must be
humanely impounded and kept for a
minimum of three days. Many dogs
have been so killed, some have been
wounded andmaimed.

The Lorain victory had immediate
effects throughout Ohio, where several
other towns and counties have been
shooting dogs. Information reaching
HSUS headquarters in Washington in-
dicates that all such local governments
have either openly or quietly halted the
shootings. '

Trial of issues in the plea for a per-
manent injunction probably will occur
during this summer.

 

Horse Shows

(Continued from page I)

an artiﬁcial gait, for the HSUS program
aimed especially at ending cruelty to
the Tennessee Walking Horse.

Nation-wide publicity attended the
conviction, in Lynchburg, Virginia, of
A. E. Hauser, wealthy and socially-
prominent local horseman, for cruelty,
after HSUS experts testiﬁed in court that
a Tennessee Walking Horse belonging to
him was exhibited at the Lynchburg
show while suffering acutely and visibly
from sore feet. Hauser, ﬁned $25, ﬁrst
ﬁled an appeal from the conviction, then
withdrew the appeal, paid the ﬁne, and
changed trainers.

The trainer who rode the Hauser
horse to win a blue ribbon, Wade Stepp
of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, failed
to attend the trial in Lynchburg, plead-
ing his doctor’s orders to stay in bed.
A warrant was issued for Stepp’s arrest.
His scheduled appearance as horse show
judge at the four-day Tulsa, Oklahoma,
show was cancelled by the Show Com-
mittee, and his activities are under in-
vestigation by disciplinary groups of

two horse show associations.

A hearing on the subject of the horse
show judge who awarded ﬁrst place to
the sore horse has been scheduled for
June by the Virginia Horse Shows Asso-
Members of the HSUS staff,
the Virginia Federation of Humane So-
cieties, and the American Walking Horse
Association, who have been cooperating

ciation.

energetically in the program against
mistreatment of the Walking Horse, will
attend and give evidence.

New cooperation by show ofﬁcials,
withdrawals of several entries, and an
entire absence of sore horses from the
show ring at Waynesburg, Pennsylvania,
were evidence that exhibitors, whose
costs for bringing a horse to a show
often amount to over $1,000, and result
in a total loss if the horse is not shown,
were unwilling to risk a second legal
round with the HSUS. The inspection
at Waynesburg, second in a planned
series of surprise raids which will reach
across the country, was carried out by
HSUS staff members, Dr. Clayton
Stephens, of Verona, Mississippi, special
veterinary consultant retained by the

HSUS, and experts of the American

10

Walking Horse Association who volun-
teered for the work as a part of the
Association’s support of the HSUS pro-
gram.

In Milwaukee, Wisconsin, The Animal
Protective League and the Wisconsin
Humane Society effectively policed the
Milwaukee Spring Show. Several en-
tries were withdrawn, and one horse
exhibiting a suspicious lameness was
penalized by being excluded from any
award. However, in Lewisburg and
Shelbyville9 Tennessee, where Governor
Buford Ellington announced that he
would personally undertake to clean up
Walking Horse cruelties, observers re-
ported many sore and bloody horses,
some of them winners of the horse show
classes in which they were entered.

Board Statement

(Continued from page 9)

tory law implies social endorsement of
what might be prohibited.

It is highly improbable that this Con-
gress will act on S. 3570 in any way.
Congressional leaders hope to adjourn
the current session in about three weeks.
Another bill of the same kind, however
probably will be introduced in the next
Congress.

In the interim, The HSUS will initiate
and sponsor" several conferences of
American humane workers to discuss
this subject and to move toward a work-
ing consensus about the best method
of achieving the objectives desired by
all humanitarians. The subject also
will be thoroughly discussed in The
HSUS annual Convention, to be held in

Los Angeles September 30-October 2.

We repeat, because we want to be

- sure that we are not misunderstood, that

The HSUS will always support legisla-

tion that will actually prevent cruelty

and suffering. We withhold support from
S. 3570 because it would not do so.

 




‘ sonata: John Show 0001)»
Unitod Btotoo lotion
"mimono DoOo

Dom- Ionotoo Ooopon

Vo wioh to avioo you of tho oppooition of our Low to 8.3570. .
tho om ooooonod with ttootuot of laborotory onioolo. Ihilo. tho
ototod MPG“. “to prevido for tho Imman- trootnont or mimolo
mud in oxporinont ond tooto 'oy rooipionto of punt! from tho
Unitod ltotoo Oovornnont. ond for othor Muoooo'. io oortoinly to

ho “lo-Wt” oodorooa - ood am- wo on wood oiuooroly
ground. to no to: your willinaooo to oponoor ionolotipn with
thio hum yorpooo . oorom otudy coupon no to njoot thio bill.

In Iimph truth. tho bill will givo no protection to laboratory
onimolo. Ito lemma io nomtive out! oontrodiotory. Prminiono
for inopootion ohd oni'oroomont oro oo wood: and modiotio no to
bo how-oxiotont in o prootiool oonoo. mu:- not offoot would 'oo
that tho vivioootoo' would polioo hinoolt. i‘ho poulty provided.
if indood it woro our to to iopoood. io o. tom oho. ,

Horo in low York ototo wo hon hod oxporionoo with oonowhot oimilar
logioiotion. This io tho Moron-Eater: Lot. wood in 1953. 1Whilo
tho primary rouon for mu low woo to outhorioo tho ooimro. or
prowuoat. of miulo from poundo ond oholtoro {or orporimntotion.
oortoin provioiono woro inoorporotod purpoﬂin; to givo o manure or '
protootion to tho ooh-1o — on¢ oo iioonoio; of ioborotorien mo
inopootion by tho Itoto Oomiooionor of Roolth. ood tho powor to
rovoho lioonooo- for foilnro to cow): with ruloo ond ro‘olationo loid
down by tho Oomiooionor. Undor thio low porfamnoo of animol ox-
porinontotion without on ofrioiol owravol oonotitutoo o miodomoonor.

But to our knowlodgo - in tho oigxt yooro that this law hm boon in
oftoot - no lioohoo hoo ovor boon ro'mkod. no ponolty hoo our boon

 




-3-

mood. and indood thoro hoo mor boon a proooautlon undo:- tho
18v. m- dooplto tho foot that thoro ﬁr. aunt-om khan-Merino

in tho ototo um; upon-onto]. osmium that any thou-undo of
oat-do oro mod: that otportnonto oro oondnctod day tn and day
out. you- in ond you mt: out that tho opportpnuioo for violation
of tho Omintonor'o ruloo and um oro yrootiao’i 1y ”trauma-
10.1 10 mmo

8.3570 boo boon W to tho laboratory romlot1on law in offoot

1n Grout Briton. Spooﬁng or this low in tho Emu ottoordn in

July. 1957. Lord Downing (tom:- Air Ohio? Mar-om of Great Britain.)
ototod that no provocation had "or how mrrtod out mint any

. Vivi-actor otnoo tho pout»; of tho Lot in 1876. Ho otatod further:
"mot-o oro my obont 23 111118.011 oxporimnto pox-form ovory year in
obant 530 loborotoﬂoo. 1'9 mart! opinot bamboo of tho 1” in tho»
3% million Wu“ than"; on no wore them {in immetom a» that
1o to my. ouch inopoator has an "ta-mm a! 5:770.me oxporimntu to
mantle to o yon. and 10C; latex-norms m violt. Mow. my Lordo.
I hovo odd W to ohm: tint tho law in riddlod with leapholm. and
that tho £1010 lit-poetics mm to o Mllmr om. mammd 9m throw
dnot in tho oyoo of tho «mm and t9 «1” tho museum of tho
opothoth.‘

Wo bollovo hm. oo withn. would 3:» totally unoluo in whining m
buxom bonoﬂto for omrimontol animus and um fear. {mu the» army-1»
OIOO'Of woo}: Md illusory 'romlotion' 1mm now in aﬂoat. t‘m t mm

3.3570 to bo mtod. it would oponto only no a Minor and otrou
block to tho ottoman of on «tooth-e «mutation. of tha ‘mdwmbly
grout “from“ ond Moo of root Mabel-o of ubomtory mum“. Yo
roopootfnny urgo you to withdraw your onpport of thin prmmoei loci-a
lotion.

”manly you".

Mint lam.“ Kim . Bow-om

 




. an}:
- III
' 5:. ‘ .7 jag-19!;
33%

an»)? r it: r .- V .5

J I If
, Pamphlet 3

ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS
IN nus COUNTRY “TO-DAY

42.1.; iiaﬁi L 55:) E5" {(71 if?
. . $3.5} ‘_,
y. 451mm: .‘"

mfongmhcumdwvcwﬁm‘h' 3W
gm anwinxms

n W; I g'III III LEI-I;
e ta ie y sets out w t pen
afﬁxed as regards recemng an anaesthetic.

‘ Hans,
Cats Dogs also

VI ' ad "‘0 . -mdmalcs
Anaesthetic“ Wit .. 7,189" 2,313 ‘19
Allowed to recover from anaesthetic.- 914 1,1” 16

No anaesthetic . . 2,383 3,515 103 .

 




”COMMENTS

mmtdteﬂcmbwﬁddfxmﬁgmcsm
embodied, includes a numbct of ”mama.
Thcw 7 dﬁxMhainMﬂyﬁamm
typedtcnm ormanyycafgmdformnyymvchavcbem
pointingout marks cﬂectisto gum: fronthcpublkthc
mmamawmmm.
lnthisconnccﬁonitmustberemcmbaedthumctcchnicﬂ
admdmcﬂomcmvhacﬁchmhprcpued,
mMymﬁWﬁandﬁcm
Whining-aw
Togiveiuanfcvamksdhowddmivethecxphmm
mmw— - ..

I. lthnmdthul“anﬁ“utoﬂl”ithdby

twice
with. mint

“KnyMIde-edwhgmydﬁcuﬂgx-
' mmﬂCuﬁc-nhfmdmbcnﬁcxu
thnwmuhmlytomdmmddthnn’n
mdlcﬂlba 'mdhubuadtdnd,'dlcmimllahll

o

 

 

 




undue: h ﬁve was a; 6m ham: or weeks
and months P
To anyom who win god; it attenttvely and an ' dy, this

MMMMMWBnMadw-sh
he WWMM;MMM m -~

 

 




5%;

I?“

. (-5.1?

- \zr-n ;"’

. »»<: hr ‘1' - < ,
Ar" ‘4, “ '1'. «a
E21 3%: ‘6‘ i?»

bmdypoutoomﬂmmmemﬂcamydn
beta: to mm: a w w the tanpurirm
bmgivctoo mwmpnmﬁ'Qwhi inaugcmxinc
anaesthetic. ‘2 v "

5. Fndyyn h Main-“h WM inn
with“ Danna-9:: mic aviator-x.

mmwdlmmm{mmmmm

‘ - "'medzsanl}
altcnuonmthckcmafthcsmyped mpre-
dcocacn. hthemforl952ummtcdthntn¢gm
olthcuvmutothcm W“ a
considmhk- number of Win mpropcu" he words
gmcdhvcbccnunittedskthhcnsothatfwmythmg
ochﬁcctcllsusthemIpectonmaynothHCKma

mgkmmhngphad-hgﬁev‘hokmdthc

lnanymm,mbcc~mhnuclekhmtms
mdgrutthe‘iruﬂ, (he .

 

 

 

NAmNAL ANTI- WK SOCIETY
Xnax‘ponting London 6: Provincial Anti— \iwscotion Study}

27. I'ALACE sum LONDON, 8m
' ~“Tabphaur‘ﬂotu' '-mm

mm mam m

 

 

 




VERY ‘IMPORTANT NOTICE

BILL S 3570 .

THIS STATEMENT BY MR. CHENOWETH.

To MISSOURI LEAGUE MEMBERS.
ANY BILLS PERTAINING To IABORATORY‘ANIMAIS UNLESS YOU
CIETY. MISS CONAHAN, SECRETARY OF THE
OF THE UNITED STATES, WHOSE PRESIDENT HAS I
TOGETHER WITH ALL OTHER H.S.U.s.
PLEASE READ VERY CAREFULLY.

 

Statement by the Board

By R. J. CHENOWETH

President, the Humane Society of
The United States

The Directors of The Humane SO-
ciety of the United States have author-
ized me to make the following state-
ment on' their behalf, concerning a bill
(S. 3570) introduced recently in the
US. Senate by Senator Cooper of Ken-
tucky. The bill is officially titled as
being “to provide for the humane treat-
ment of animals used in experiment and
tests by recipients of grants from the
United States Government, and for other
purposes.”

The bill was drafted by the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation, New
York City.

The HSUS holds that cruelty is im-
moral regardless of the pretext for it.
Our membership, in a national referen-
dum conducted a few years ago, de-
clared it to be fundamental HSUS policy
to oppose and to seek to prevent all uses
of animals that cause pain, suffering,
or fear. The HSUS Board of Directors
adheres to that policy.

We think that it would be also im-
moral, however, to refuse to rescue a
single animal from suffering, merely be-
cause we cannot abolish all suffering.
We do not reject humane progress, even
if progress does not immediately attain
the ultimate objectives of our ideals.
The HSUS will always support any legis-
lation and any action that will genuinely
prevent cruelty and suffering.

The practical application of these
principles in the present instance is that
The HSUS would support S. 3570 if the
proposed law actually and dependably
would prevent or decrease cruelty and
suffering, but the bill does not satisfy
those requirements and we cannot sup-
port the bill as it now stands.

As every active American humani-
tarian knows, The HSUS is aggressively

ﬁghting cruelty in research laboratories.

The Society has spent tens of thousands'

of dollars in the last three years on
investigations behind the “iron curtain”
that is ﬁercely guarded by most labora-
tories where animals are used, on court
action against laboratories, and on edu-
cational activities designed to give facts
to the public and to legislators.

It is largely our own exPerience that
tells us that S. 3570 would be an ineffec-
tive law and might even protect those
who are guilty of cruelty rather than
control them.

The State of California, where The
HSUS kept an investigator inside the
laboratories of two medical schools for
many weeks and where the Society is
presecuting complaints against both of
those schools, has a law designed to pro-
tect laboratory animals that is in many
respects seemingly stronger than S.
3570. Yet, although the California
statute has been law for nearly ten years,
it never has been enforced. The Cali-
fornia law never has saved a single ani-
mal from suffering. And, even though
The HSUS has spent many thousands of
dollars trying to get the law enforced,
California laboratories and California
state authorities still are successfully re-
sisting enforcement.

The fatal ﬂaw in the California statute
is that enforcement is the responsibility
solely of the State Department of Health.
The Department of Public Health, of
course, is headed, staffed and controlled
by men who are products and allies of
the laboratories that they are supposed
to police. Even granting that the officers
and staff of the Department of Public
Health are honest men and that they
intend to abide by the law, they are all
thoroughly inured to cruelty to animals
in research laboratories and they regard
many cruelties as “normal” and unob-
jectionable. They subconsciously, even
if not deliberately, interpret the Cali-
0fornia ‘Inti-cruelty law to ﬁt their own

5

WE URGE OUR MEMBERS NOT TO SUPPORT
ARE NOTIFIED To DO SO BY OUR "so-
LEAGUE, IS ALSO SECRETARY OF THE HUMANE SOCIETY
SSUED THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT IN REGARD To
DIRECTORS, MISS CONAHAN HAS APPROVED

ideas of what they feel that the law.
should say.

S. 3570 repeats the fault of the Cali-
fornia law. The power to enforce the
proposed Federal law would exist exclu-
sively with the Secretary of Health,
Education and Welfare.
that would place all of the enforcement
machinery in the hands of animal-using

In practice,

research workers of the National Insti-

tutes of Health and the Surgeon Gen-
eral’s office. If past and present routines
and policies were followed, the Secre-
tary, the Surgeon General and the NIH
would ask and accept “advice” of other
animal-using research workers in medi-
cal school laboratories throughout the
country. That is the procedure that
HEW now follows in making grants of
Federal funds for research projects. In
actual effect, S. 3570 would set the labo-
ratories to police. themselves and would
operate to prevent all other kinds of
investigation and law enforcement.

The pending Federal law has other
faults—serious faults—but we would
reject it for the weakness of the proposed
enforcement machinery if for no other
reason. Our own experience tells us that
S. 3570 would not and could not be

enforced.

A law of this kind that cannot be en-
forced, we point out, is not merely a _
negative evil. Such laws can and do
protect cruelty. The California law dis-
cussed above, the Metcalf~Hatch act in

' New York, the Wisconsin and Minnesota

animal-seizure acts—~all operate to assure
the public that animals are being pro-
tected from cruelty. The assurance is
false but the laws make ordinary anti-
cruelty prosecutions virtually impos-
sible. S. 3570, in our Opinion, would
have the same effect.

On the other hand, neither is the ab-
sence of a law against cruelty to animals
in laboratories merely a negative evil.
The general public reasonably concludes,
if there exists no law against anything
that happens in laboratories, and if
humane societies demand none, that no
cruelty occurs. Absence of a prohibi-

 




Board Statement (moss, ,BRUTALITY IN HORSE snows

(Continued from pagej)
Few peOple realize that there is a great amount

of cruelty in horse shows,and most especially to
the Tennessee Walking Horse.

tory law implies social endorsement of
what might be prohibited.

It is highly improbable that this Con-
gress will act on S. 3570 in any way, Onlhe Opposite page is a reprint from the nation-
Congressional leaders hope to adjourn a1 magazine "Sports Illustrated." With a few" ex-
the current session in about three weeks. captions, there are no natural ”walking horses."
Another bill of the same kind, however The unusual gait is anhieved: in a majority Of
probably will be introduced in the next cases by "soring" the front hooves of the horses
Congress. in order to force them to throw their front feet
forward in a long stride and bring their full

I“ the interim, The HSUS Willinitiate weight onto their hind hooves (to relieve the
and sponsor several conferences of tortured front feet).

American humane workers to discuss

this subject and to move toward awork- The Humane Society of the United States is doing
ing consensus about the best method a great deal of splendid work to step the "soring"
of walking horses, but a lot of work must still
be done by many people to stop this vicious prac-
tice altogether.

of achieving the objectives desired by
all humanitarians. The subject also
will be thoroughly discussed in The
HSUS annual Convention, to be held in Devotees of horse shows shouldvoice their strong

Los Angeles September 30-October 2. disapproval of the "soring"of horses in the walk-

in horse classes.
We repeat, because we want to be 8

sure that we are not misunderstood, that
The HSUS will always support legisla-
tion that will actually prevent cruelty
and suﬁering. We withhold support from
S. 3570 because it would not do so.

HELP THE BEAGLES THAT ARE BEING USED BY THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

Please write, without delay, to Senators Stuart Symington and Thomas B. Hennings, in care
of Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C.,and to your own Congressman,in care of House
7 Office Building, Washington, D.C., urging them to do everything in their power to support
the building of a new housing projectto more humanely shelter the little beagle dogs that
are used in the testing of food and drugs by the Food and Drug Administration. These lit-
tle beagles are being kept under infamous conditions in a basement where they get no sun-
light nor fresh air.

 

ALWAYS PROTEST AGAINST Romaosit

DO NOT EVER LET ANYONE TELL YOU THAT RODEOS ARE NOT CRUEL. DO NOT PATRONIZE
THEM: AND WHEN THE FIREMEN OR ANY OTHER PERSONS SOLICITING FOR BENEFIT SHOWS
ASK YOU TO BUY TICKETS, EXPLAIN TO THEM THAT, THOUGH YOU HEARTILY APPROVE

"BENEFITS" FOR FIREMEN AND OTHER PUBLIC SERVANTS ,YOU CANNOT SUPPORT CRUELTY.

 

 

 

 




W M

.WIWWIIWIW 20, 19Wo

".TW.'WI:?. WWI iIWIW"ww;
I ' 399 Lafﬂyﬁbtw WWII‘EXIIEIIJSI IIQI .
' tthWWWh IbzﬁWnnWleWniWI

VIDaar I?“ IWIIWIRWI

1.33 I WIWWWWIWIW WWIW WWIWIW yWWW-WIWWW In WW friWWdly
‘.WWW LWWI'WWIWWWIWW W W'W IWW WW WWWJ WWWWWWWIW WI thW CWWWWW

.WIIB (WW WWLWWWIWW WI b * WWIWII WWW WWW antinviviWWWtIWn) '
‘WWW WW ‘IWWWIIWIWI WW IWWWWWWWWW WW bWtW. ,

a,“ ' ~~ ”WWWW WWW W IWW'QWIWtI II W W WWWWh WIWWIIWIWW tn
'tWWWWl I WWWIIWW IWWW II II WEIIKII W II3 WIW WIIl WWWWW EWIIVI
‘“IT“WI WWWWWWWIWW* WWW IWWW WWWI WWW IWWWIW WIII WIIWWWW WWII

' IWW WIIWIIWWW WWW WWIIWW :IW w WIW WW IW pWWb WW WWWIIW IWWWW,

:‘. yWW WWWWIWW WWWW I1 I WWWIW WWWVW 380913 WII W168 WWWK Institutimna

[5 WW dﬂ WW'WW W WIWWWWI“.IHW WIIWI er ud‘ WIIIWWWWWW WI WleiWWbility
QIWI WWW'WWWIIWWJ antimaWIWlty IWW WWWW-IhW WGQIWI UilI IW WWWWWW.,~‘
xIIWWWI II WWWILIWr‘WWWI WWWWWICIWWI WI“ WIIW IIIWWIIWWW WIWui

gg‘hkv & 11¢ ngg iyg WWW deWWWI IWWWWWWWWI In WWWWI WW WWWWWIWKW

,, WIIWI WWWWWIWWWIWIIWWI II WW WIW‘IWIWI» WI WW IIWqIWIIIIWW WWWWWW
quLW WWWWWWIV IWIW It Intn WEI WWWW WW WWWIWWW WW WWWWWIWWWW
‘W.WWWW .ILIIW I WIIIWWWWI thWW I» II_IWWWI IIWW WIWIWWllJ I;
CWWWWWIW WWIW WWWWWWW It IW IWIIWW WW WWWWIWW WW WWtWIZ IIWth
»1@MIIQTVI “hmulﬁ IWWIWIWtIWW WW W WWWIW WWWIW WW WWWWWWWWW
WW WWIW WWI IWWWWWWWWIWIW WWWWWIWWWLWIIW WWLWIdW WI  %§% '
lWIWWWIWWI W WovWWWd WW IfIWW C WWWWW WIII, It WWWIW Wot WW WWW” ’.
-WI tax WW WWWIWW IW WWWW WWWh lﬂIiﬁlWEIQng. But WIIIWWt WWW CWOWWW
W1III It WWWIW WW”IIIIIWu1t If WWI IWWWWWIblo WW WWII. " I'

- ‘ . ”IhIW brings WW WWW {WWIIIW‘W ‘W‘WI WW 1W W WbW I up» hummw
:WIWWWWLWW lWW.’ II II WWWW twat WWW deWWWI IWW dWWW WWW WWVWW “
IviWWy WIIW ”IIla WWIWWI WIWWWWBIWWI IWW WIIIIWW WWW WIIIIWWI WI
‘WWIW W3W WWIW WWIW WlWWWWWWIWW by WWWWIIWI WWIthW WW I WWWult
,WI III, WIWWWW. Furthermore, WIW WWWWW huI WW Ilaugth‘ IWWW
WWWW WWWW WWWW WI WWVWWIWW WWWW WWIWWIW WWW WWWW WWW WWWWWWWW
WWWWI. anII IhW IWdWWWl IWW WWW WWW n WWWIWW not WWW W WWW WtWtW
‘_IW WW WrWW WWWWWWdWW IW.WWWWIWI W WWIWWW slaughter IWWI.'

 




I truly cannot fQIlow [your~ PeaSOﬂin” thQ‘yQQ Qay

'thQQ a move 11kQ1QhQ humanQ QlathQ 1 helm” QQQ mQQQQ "the

long road QQ much longer." I 3QlinQ QQ QQ WQQQQer QQQioQ

taken that pQQVQQQQ cruelt“ QQQ QfoQrina Q3 nquvovs animal“
(3r Qven Q3 QQQ) that is of QerendoQQ 13QQQQQQQ in itsQlf.

TQQ morQ Qu111.1n1 QQ C‘n JPQVQYL and thQ S~T)OHBP QQ QQQ QQQVQQQ‘

1Q, Q116 Q3301. I WQuld nQQ wa Q3 pQSQ ‘udeQnu on Qhrt. QQQ'QQ

3Q 3Q 3113 3? QQQ QQQJQQQI QQQQ far Q fQQ Q pQQimQQQQI

'QQnQQQ; so far QQ the QQ1mQ1Q Q1Q QQQQQQnQd5 bQ Q I de kQQQ thQ:

a bi‘1 w“ Qh QQQQ QQQ 33 Q3 prohibiu QQ1mal QXQQQimQQan13Q in

' QIL QQQ Q wi QQQQQQQ QQQIQ QQQQQ Q3 QQQQQQ 3f pQQQQgQ 1Q QhQ

”TforQQQleQ f3Q 3113413 I thiQk thQQ1QQriQQQ QQQQ QQQ and QQQ '
Zas quicklv QQ 33111b1Q Q3 QQQQQQ thp 13 QQQ Q11113QQ,QT'QQ13QIQ
‘1Q IQQQQQQQQ1QQ QQQ QQQ inQrQQQin W11 1QQQ Wh1ch Q111 bQ
,QnQszinQ QhQir doors wth1Q QQQ QQQQ fQQ WQQQQ.‘ ThQ CQQQQQ

bill may QQQM Q33 ”93k Q3 33 ,-QQQ Qnda; QhQQQ QQ1QQIQ QQVQ QQ

'IQQQQQQQ‘WQQQQVQQ in L“3 fQQm Qf 1QQ131QQ1QQ WQQN OP 811WTJ

Tth QQQQ QQQQQ3110Q5‘QQQ QQQ CQQQﬁy Q31,1’f QQQQQQQ,‘QQQ

_Q1VQ tm3m1M‘Ch. ' ~ . 1*1 .

”sinQQQQZEQQ

 




W. T. SEITZINGER
329 LAFAYETTE STREET, N. S.
PITTSBURGH 14. PA.

July 30, 1960

Christine Stevens

Society for Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue

New Ybrk 22, N. Y.

Dear hrs. Stevens:

I appreciate your sympathetic letter of June 20, and will try to
eXpress my reactions, especially since learning the full purport of
the Cooper Bill Senate 5570. '

But first, about the British Anti—Cruelty Act. True, some of our
people who have visited‘hngland praise that country for better humane
laws than we have in the States. *ss should, however, try to improve
on them.after 74pyear§_of observation;

 

By that I mean that the 1876 Act does not prevent abuses, and it
does foster ever-increasing exploitation of animals, much of which could
well be avoided. ‘ «

I have not been swayed by "reading of opinions” by uninformed
writers, but point to facts published in England. rFor instance, as
long as ten years ago the amazing figure of 1,779,215 living animals
'Were used in experiments in England, about eight out of ten without
anesthetics. Of the 240,907 receiving anesthetics 21l,428 were permitted
to recover and subject to the pain and discomfort of convalescencs. And
probably to further manipulation. I have mislaid the most recent fig-
ures-~195au-but remember they were nearly doubled. ”What must the fig-
ures be for the United States, where the number of labs. is many times,
greater than in Britain? (The Cooper bill does not require publication
of such figures.) -

This means the incarceration of millions of innocent but helpless
animals here {are we not ashamed of that?), denied their God~given
rights, and held at the diSposal of anyone, even a sadist, who has the
influence or funds for obtaining a "license."

The Cooper Bill affects only those institutions that receive pub-
lic funds, and leaves free the ineXperienced and often pallid-faced
"student” or publicity hound to work his will. I have had arguments
with some of them, and God deliver me from such. Yen may call them
Scientists.

There is virtually no penalties in the COOper Bill. What is loss
of license? Can one not go back next day and get a renewal, or a new
one? And how effective to "set a thief to catch a thief"? And why
wait-until a crime has been committed if prevention can be assured?

0h. Mrs. Stevens, please do better than this Cooper Bill. Why
half-nay measures like the Slaughterhouse Hill with its reverberations?
These moves do help, but they also do make the long road so much longer.
my suggestion for sponsoring a limited, stated, numberldf humane-operated

laboratories cannot in any way be compared wi it
Sincerely, 4572<§fllplraawwmw«-
’ "7* ~’ . 494’”

 




.IY' ..;. “f ‘35 ”genera?“
I \ .v \j\/‘N( “ 37>] 3‘

(/3..ng a” “ﬁe

I‘be1i86e this iS'the\:ame woman WhO‘was

in to see me on Fri, June 30 (Yolan Guttman)
see diary of that date. She also sent six
page article which is in your box. 'Ehe
>seemed alright to me, but a little mistrusting
about the motives of humane societies and peopl~
who say they want to help animals. She asked
if you were willing to answer questions about
the bill once she read the material on it; I
:pxnxﬁxn promised to send her a cogy of H.Rl937
as soon as 5 rec. some more. She also thld me
that she would be using assumed names as she

was afraid of losing her job; as I mentioned
before she's a nurse, did not say Which hosp.
connected with. She was at ann. meeting.

Sent in some money for lit and gave us too
much so made her mem, but she returned mem
card saying that she wished to find out more
about our org. I also think she came up to

see our office too, and how we operate. She
spent an hour here.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 Easf |7Ih SIree’r
New York" 3. N. Y.

OR 54069

 




July 23.; 1551
1 him Th1”:

In rehgrz-ehhh 1h $911? lethal? eh July 3.11, 1 1111.1 whiter year thetiens ah
853$ $331931

3.) 11411131111111 0f “huh m tam ef the Cm hhihhtieh hf WW State's, it: he met. pehhima
to ehhhh fhhhml 11 1111* 1'11 rm whim}; 111173. prhmh wary miml in emf? lhbumhew.
111111 ehhhmd 1111111111 mm 1513? hehshihhhe the: maﬁa mjm'ity 91’ mm hhhh in the
333in Sﬁhﬁﬁhﬁe

a) he: 11111.1 hr: «mm «MA he rhmivh ﬁrm-1 has: any ‘hhehledge hm ham we; .
the 11m 111’ hathwhmhh hm 1111111. work 1111 which meethehiea hm nah 11111. This is
Mame Clem, huh it 11 mt» mwwh hm my 41111: phrhwhehhe 1111i emhhhehih am am;
am 1191111th 11: ehhhr him-h. T1111; hmhhhhtim 1111111113 in mm 11mm and vehhrinery
mghrm ' ' 1 1

3) hhhhmihh; p111“: infliehﬂhm if 3-2111 11111.1ehe mm :19 pair: than ever be 511:? 111111 _
en mpmhhhhhhl 1111:1111 ham yam munch vhmpgwr‘h 111111 19371 1711321 1.9121? 1e dheigneh

he redheh mee’eihhly the 3111111th hf 1111311 1111-11 hhffhmh he ahihhlm but = 1% in
nah 11114.11 he hlhhimhe it“ T1111 he: mt an ’hhhihh'hﬁlh gm}. given the preheat; Mata hf
Whgh er hf her 4 mihhihg 61h: lihh‘hihh. Tish '85—»yaer hhphﬁmee unhhh the W‘bieh
1M 1111 her ghihh 1h fhehihilihm ‘hh hhiihm 1.111% whre V8315 momhe e1: hﬁffhﬂﬂh am

he 31311111131 11-; 11911111 7:11 11131111 mh mag: 11 121th new an ear mhhim, mmhy
.1111 11133.1..hhnh hf mime'ilh m ; .~.- 1151111th .. «1111.111

M 'hahhwhhhhhhheg Mgh when bh 1m em hehhhh m1 ' => - 1 e. The them he? be cruel at
W ., be 111th mhihhhh f I have M11 hhe fellhehhg mvihe- hhhd far 1111:1111
11111311111: 1, ml? 11:11:61: hi” hair 11 Lahweci ﬁrm the heel: w: 1": 1.1112111 pie.» he is 1
given the: mahghhie he he hmhedgs , him they ghmhh pig? 1h meshed that 11 wall m-
m at 1,5111% is fin-ream. eh W Wed stem The WW 9f hhhi’ﬁ him“ eff 1%? W
limit. 121 emmlly 1111111 111511 elmly Mama W1 {1% point» at ﬁlihh the
guinea pig; 111113 1 111m he him} 1111.1 (men he year have men a born the if en which
1111311 1111 hhh haeh) is W hash her We <1th hf heat: 111qu he whwahe the
AWhih hfhmh. hnie ehewa .~ 2 1111111111 331th of awe-Mata). mime! can amid
huffwing mm 1:1 mm ta sting 111 111111 1111111111 Where-1

5) E11111 5193'? he” just met f w hey 5.1: 111111 he with rehemt he emimely insured
12111111, if 3: unhe'mh .. yew easement aerreetly.

6) m: eeh ham em 1121911111515: laborahere whale when it. 11111 ﬁrst ta reﬂex-:1
1.11112? It em ch 11‘ ﬁoconhrggh macaw it. he he (he Gamma :11 new in the pm»
of home 1111 1111111 - . he 1; 11111111). By 1111 ewe 11111111111 11111-11 1111111
mﬂhhher hill 111:!“th the ham} we at? hgrimlmre he am , " eter its hmhe preﬁ-
1M1 ah the him in we’h 11-1111, the Mpwmhh was eerryiag e141 inhumane
ulnughter mmtim 111 111m 11 (Emma 11111111 11111 Daphrtmm he require hex-tam
Melanie hi? all haughwma uni-13.1131 he he gwmmmh and Maw 91% Of all W16
in federally 1221911111 111111 a» .1 11 being he» " j 11111111111.

 




#2..

7) LL fully LgrLe Lith you LLLL LLLLLLLL practitﬁmm are LLL
nLcLLLLrﬂy Lemme. Th LL12- is why Lach mus? LL liLLnL LL LLd LCLerL to htLLLLL
LLLLLLLLLL LLCELL 28.18... 1937.

T0 LLLLLLLLL: yLu LrL inLLrLLLL LL LLLLLLL LLLL ELL. 1937 LL L LLLL.
It L3 baLLd on the LLLLLLLLLL LL LLL LLL LLh.ALL LLLL’LL has LLL ALLL LL
LILLLLLLL LLffLLLLL LL LLLLLLLLLV LLLLLLL LLL“ LLL LLLL L'r lLLLLLL LLL LLLL pLsLLd
in tha hiLLLLy'LE LLL LLLLL. L LLLL "-LLL LLLy L LLLLLLLLLL 1L LLL country'
and LLLpL «red LLLL LLLL British LLLLLLLLLLLL. If LL LLLLL LLLLL LL: LLLLLLLLL LL
thLL ”Laval LL 39:0le have”) Ll‘mwmtm? LLLLFLLLL‘W 1LL‘LLL ”LLLLL‘LL m”? LL”L‘L‘LWM§L that
is Qﬂw'gcing Ln. LL LLLLLVL LL33 LL L LL LLLL IL LL; LL « MLLL L, LLB? pflVinge
LL hold LLL‘LLLL that yLL LLLh LL. LLL LLLL LLLL LLLLL “LLG LL LLL :LLLL, the
periLiLLL of Lgﬁ 1937 LL.L? be LLLLLLL LL LLL LLL LLLL LLL LL31 LLLL LL LLLLLL
LL Lﬁth Lay LLLLL ~LLLL LLLLLLL yLL LLLLL.VL LL LL LLLLLL LL L Lrﬂﬁer LLL LL cruLl
LFLLLLLLL of lLLLLLLLL" LLLLLLL

'SLLLLLLLya

SL3; LLLL LLLWLLLLLLPL

MLLL J. G. TLLLLL
1375G911LgL LVLLLL
BrLLx 56, LLL‘LLLE

 




1378 College Avenue
Bro nx 56, ELY.
July 1, 1961.

Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue

New Yerk, New Yerk.

Dear Mrs. Bemelmans:

It has come to my attention that you not only wish to hear
from those people who approve H.R. 1957, but also from.those
who have objectively examined.this prOpOSed legislative meas-
ure and have found it wanting.

I am one of those people who have carefully read all the
material that your organization has supplied, inc luding
the broc hure EACTS ABOUT H.R. 1937. I am now ready to voice some

cﬁfmy objections .by following the outline that this brochure

supplies. I do hOpe that you.will give then your consider-
ation.

l. " The purpose of the measure is to ensure the animals used

in institutions wholly or partly supported by taxpayers'
mcney 00000."

How about those institutions not supported by public
funds? For example, our hospitals from coast to coast,
large and small, public and private, use live animals in
practice surgery; they use as many as they wish , they,
use them.in the way they widi. These animals are kept"in
stock", and are readily available to both resident doc-
tors and interns alike, without restrictions or super-
vision.

' Immobilization vs. Anesthesia"

Paralysants ( muscle relaxant drugs) are used as adjunctive
drugs in human surgery so as to effect a more complete re-
laxation of the voluntary muscles than could be obtained
just by the use of general anesthesia alone. In practice
and in experimental surgery on live animals muscle relaxant
drugs are used for the purpose of rendering the animal help-
less to the point of voicelessness so as to obviate the use
of anesthesia altogether as a measure of economy. muscle
relaxant drugs have no analgesic or anesthetic effects.
Since the eXperimenter is not concerned with the pain that
the animal may suffer, or whether it will recover or not,
these drugs have become very pOpular with the"surgeons" who
wish to perfect a cut , a stitch, a tear, etc., without much
fuss or bother. In the majority of instances these drugs
are used without anesthesia; whens anesthesia is used they
are not needed,, and certainly are not used.

 




5. " Who should be allowed to inflict pain?"

The answer is : NO ONE.

How can any piece of preposed legislation be considered
humane Which not only permdts but condones the inflicting
of pain? ,

How sever 'ust pain he to be regarded as torture?

How much 'urgery could you yourself endure without the use
of anesthesia?

If animals could not feel pain, paingrelieving drugs could
not be tested on them."

Animals do feel pain, but the proof of this fact cannot be
found or located in the testing of pain-relieving drugs on
animals. The testing of painrrelieving drugs on.animals is
not possible because the animal is unable to testify to the
degree of pain that it may feel, or to the degree and time
of the relief that it may obtain from a drug that is being
tested. The animal.may cry, it may scream, but it cannot
give a verbal account of its pain, or of its relief.

The level of anesthesia that an animal may obtain can only
be determined by the presence or the absence of certain
reflexes; just how much of the agent the animal should get
may be determined by the procedure to be performed and by
the size and the weight of the animal.

Sedatives may aims be tested, since they cause the subject
to go to sleep. But pain-relieving agents may not. This
is one of the many ways in which animals are uselessly
caused to suffer: pain is caused that can neither be
miesured nor can it serve to verify the usefulness of an
analgesic drug.

" They must painlessly kill animals that have been seriously
injured."

If these animals have been anesthetized before surgery,
they should not be permitted to recover consciousness, if
they have been extensively injured.

Perhaps the weakest point of dais measure is the vesting of
the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare with the
authority so that " his authorized representative inepect
the laboratories". '

How can.such a representative effectively enforce a law
destined to protect laboratory animals when organizations
functioning under the guidance of Uhe Secretary perform
themselves all of the brutalities from.which you wish to
protect these animals? i am.calling your attention to the
Information Report of the Animal Welfare Institute of Marchr
April, 1961 in Which.there is a clarion call to mitigate the
plight of the Food and Drug Administration dogs in the sub-
basement of the Agriculture Building in Washington, D.C.

 




" Further provisions include the recuirement that
student work be painless".

How about the work of graduate practitioners? Just because
an individual is the diplomate of a professional school, it
does not guaranty that he will also be humane in the treat-
ment of " dumb" animals. Remember, that the brutal prac-
tices of budding scientists are either learned from.and/or
approved by these young peeples' educational betters. The
young peeple just blunder; their leaders, our mature sciene
tists, consider that the end justifies any means. And the
most desired and is more haste and more hurry, even though
in the process all concerned become brutalized as they
proceed to brutalize defenseless animals. Often even the
value of the project ( if it had any to begin with ) may
become dissipated in the graet haste to waste more and
more animals, this being considered a criterion of bigger
and better scientific progress.

As to " how the H.R. 1957 may affect medical and biological
reﬂsearch" I wish to state that it would, if passed, provide
researchers with a blanket of protection, leaving the poor
animals in a worse state of abandonment than ever. Even.worse,
if passed, this measure would serve to lull into a sense of
false security those elements who are truly concerned with the
welfare of laboratory animals, including you and your fellow~
workers.

H.R. 1957 is indeed moderate, but not sound legislation.

I am enclosing for your consideration a modest outline that I
myself have compiled, setting forth a few points that I c onsider
essential attributes of any piece of legislation destined to
protect laboratory animals.

I would like to suggest further, if I may, that you.people get
together with those who have another measure on the fire so as to
increase your fighting force. I am referrin once more to the same
Information Report which states that " the nimal Welfare Institute
does not support H.R. 3556" I will endeavor to obtain this measure
so as to gauge the depth of the difference that may exists between
the two, which.I suspect to be no more and no less than who wrote
what and in what way.

Personally I greatly admire you for the work that you are doing.
I do believe, however, that you.are somewhat misguided to give
H.R. 1957 your unqualified support, as it does not merit it. So
as to do the job that it was destined to do, it needs to be re-
vised along more effective and more realistic lines.

Should there be any way in which.I:may serve you, please do not
hesitate to call on me.

Sincerely yours,

inf _,,
enclosure /1 st’TM: ( ”was

W <9

’1

iv:

 




The possibility of eliminating experimentation with.live
animals altogether is very remote. Therefore, the aim of

of the humane movement should be to unite all factions and

all shades of Opinion in an attempt to attain one common goal:
Controlled animal experimentation.,

In.order to attain this goal COOperative planning of a real~
istic nature must be followed by united action that is both
meaningful and effectual.

All efforts should be directed to accomplish a two-fold plan:

1. EDUCATION: Enlighten the uninformed and the misinformed
regarding the nature and the extent of the abuses visited
upon the victims of unscrupulous and/or misguided experiment~
ers.

LEGISLATION: Promote effective legislation capable of any
forcement, regulating the sources, maintenance, uses, care,
and the diaposition of the animals used in the various
schools, laboratories, hospitals, and other institutions
including commercial firms and business organizations of
all types, large and small, public and private , without
any exemptions, regardless of their purposes of operation,
or the nature of their financial support;

Furthermore, such legislation should also include the following
provisions:

set up an independent agency with police powers to regulate all
activities related to the use of live animals in eXperimentation,
inc luding the licensing of emperimenters, and the registering,of
all experimentations in which live animals are used;

Provide an effective system.of inepecting the premises and the
activities of both the dealers * in eXperimental animals and that
of the experimenters themselves;

Provide means for financing this entire program of controlled
animal experimentation;

Stipulate punitive measures strong enough to deterr any offender,
_and provide means for their enforcement without exception.

Without these provisions any legislation destined to protect
laboratory animals is a sham.

'* A dealer is any individual or organization supplying live
animals for experimental purposes to any laboratory, school,
hospital, or to any other institution or business firm.

 




H M? L ‘

I.September:201 I960

‘ Miss Alice.Puddaf§ot~-¢‘ ’
g-Newportlﬁaaasv -;’ ' V
.Cambridga‘h05,%aa§~husetta

Daar‘Misﬁ‘PmdﬂefQQt:. 

:-V ~,  Iaam moatgrateful.telyau_for‘gging to sae'whe head
of.tha-Raadar.Writes~c$lumn.personally,\anéIcanunaerstand ‘
. their desire $0 amt Off cnrﬂaspandanca om~thﬂ,aaopar'bill '
‘~particu1arly naw that Gongras$ innot in saSSigm. My graat
eonearnvis.the Quint; &t whiahWth“ sarrwspendanea waa.cut off,
“‘for it left yea-era with the arranagus belief thatgtha GeopeP‘
l.bill’ia similar togVar evaﬁ "iéantical“;with.tﬁe bad-Hatahm-
Metealf hill. Thi$ $eemB Very Wramg'tn me, no matter'wh&t
,the wﬁiﬁmv$Vmay;%himk*of thm*hillganﬁVE-earngstlg"hppe»that“
'the wrong‘informaticmgaomtaineé'ia‘twm aiffﬁrent latters will
A.b@,c®?rwaﬁeﬁ by ﬁne.%bnitmr;inadua aouwse._ * “ ”, .13 :w

, . ‘.'If I may; I Wealﬁ like to tell‘yom why I dgipot  . ‘
.think itwillhelp‘anima13 tQseekenactmentof”an'antinivisact10n

@111$1th9ﬂ$hI‘aﬁrﬁa'Wiﬁhymw'entirely'thatlargenumbars of” “
people Womlé rally t0 fightfor~sucha-law. :Anbimv1vigeetianistx,

efferﬁs have baa“ going'an far nearly a aantury but instaad of
stevping'¢r*redueing the aMwmnt.0f anumal experimentation,

tharnumbera>ef.animals-being-uséd ha lincraaaed'evarygyaar-

”and nawﬂt i$.$ky&raokatingéwith'a'raQuest’last yaar f0?‘& 05%
incraaga in mavarnmantfunda'formedicalrasearbthMillisna7"
. and millians«moveVanimala,aya;goinm to be aged. Many*anti&
vivisecﬁian lawﬁfhave baén,pro§ésea§but mane haVe”passed¢

What goeddoeSitdathe”'nimalsthat*paople-0utsidethe’labm.
_ oratmriﬁa‘daplorgjthegr plight? 3 “ ~  ‘. ‘;: ' '

- ,§._ ‘Thﬁ Gaoperm%1113 an the.other hand, which, as'Mrs;
:Stevans eorracﬁly atatéa aoegnot strike at viviaectian, is-i
>intended t0 go right into the“laboratoriea and prevent'abusag
neﬁlﬁctg paGrly crinhxmanaly planned experiments anﬁ'to.'

‘inerea3@ §0od care an&VtrBatment of the animalsg Suchja bill Will
‘extend.real,lpraqti¢al help that the animals canthemselves feel.
-It is'a billWhinhg‘althnaghjitdhaa inapiﬁeﬁ much oppoaition

from tha'National aaaiety for Meaical Reaearch and 133*3111333

. can bahcnorably amppurtedgby_humane man who work in laboratoriea.‘

 




_A5 gm the‘question wheth@r_thﬁ'090§er bill wamld haVe an
'affact on presant 1&3a1 status of animalexperimantaﬁicn, it!
_wOu1d'not‘changa this atatus'bacamaag as yam know, 1% is a sat‘
cf canaitians applied ta thﬁ release(a1raﬁdyI$$ﬁablishﬁd9 Gf
government funds far.researchn Th9 gevernment5i$ sgﬁnding ‘
.mgny humdreés 0f,millicns-mf‘dgllars for animal expérimenﬁatiang'
,evary year Gamgreaﬁ apQ$0priaﬁes morefmcnay“fmr tha yuryﬁaag
. TheGeoper:bill_wauldzrgquireithaﬁ aartaim_standardsb& mat

w in:ﬁha‘axparimantatian meﬁtributad"t0 by thmagfunda./ As yau
. can age, thara,w¢uld be na.$hamg@ in tha lagal‘gancﬁimm which

"aniMalnexpﬁvimantatiamwalreaﬂy'nommandaar ”

-*,“   Th3 ghang@,th%r® wmmlﬁ ha 13 im ﬁhm canaidﬁwa$i®n
,givan tha'animalagu Thaﬁ‘1$.wnat'i$'ao gasyaratﬁly nﬁﬂﬁﬁﬂé~ HQW~

7,$‘d¢ h0?@1ﬁhatghi10$9?hi$al Quagtiana; lwgal.qaea§iﬁnﬁg raligimug

quegtiangcanbaéebatadvaamewhaﬁarelga,thaawwvﬁrﬁhamaﬁitg0f

- ltha CQQ§®?_billa _All‘thi$'ﬁili £3: far iﬁ ta hely'thﬁ animalaa
Vii.0n1¥ h0§@.ﬁﬁﬁ animalﬁfwill;mmﬁ aenﬁimua’ﬁm‘%w aaawificﬁﬁ'%mf
vvthﬁ°gﬁinciﬁlﬁﬁ:30”§aaaiamatﬂly hﬁlﬁ ta h? ﬁkﬂﬁﬁ wha taka‘

‘ ﬁiﬁhﬁf ﬁf'thﬁ'ﬁWﬁ,ﬂxﬁr@M@ m§d$$rimAt&m;ﬁahata’m”.gwm amé’amﬁim'

:viViﬁﬁmtiangl « ‘ V,“<‘ "*‘ ,, 1 " ' ‘ .‘ . . , ‘

, , 'B¢.plaa$@ write ma agaimg far 1 aa-much ammm@rm@& by‘
Vthg ﬁhaughtﬁ‘axyragﬁaé in gym? lattay§ ‘ : ‘- ;§~  .. '

_ Eifithminﬁ ,reaééézai*<i£sa'~~ "

;.-a¢raiallg, 7']

 




'35,:5/

\1‘ gm? "" -4 \..- r?

x» m?”

, ,. (k
% ArrUMFW (E!

“‘11-‘93: x. 3'"

. ”3‘5:

A;

“U ,
Iii a ' 4,61 '
I3? “1;“, a: ”g ’ f it"!

[fa-MIVIIJIKH if}, 51,113? :2, #“CW

at
{f
Fig ﬁg? " 2,311“,

‘19

5:: ‘gyg‘ﬁﬂiF-gw‘ Eifka‘ﬁégkmsmgy
; AI 2!!

5,“: g

”I; I ‘3 w ,1' " f
-' ‘ MW" waif 71;»

a, 11111) . 1 a? ,1,

saw,,_,,;- ‘
- 11,13, ~.

*4 5
r’ v 1
“3‘15, "Gigi”

,.£;{I‘II%5W 41:6} r. ﬁbrﬁwﬂ 1’

»

g‘mww , . ,,,,WM {ﬁfw éffi’yl'f"
[{WIW‘W’Q wwﬁv‘ﬂmk 45W!

g

£53
’6 {If}: ﬂtwm’égfﬁﬁgh "M17’£“¢F . (147,“
51 ﬂ

.5

‘ :1.“

“A ”I? x‘Véi‘tw‘gI

{F
I, I

ti ,3,
I’ III ;
w a»«-»<,o,,m 1
III/Mil ’17

{m

‘ MD
41,, vmm m m,
l

1W 131,, I ,1 4m};

 




1-qu

r

w» @1163”?

 




P1
@1612.) .~ WI!" ‘21

“m
. ”51:14 33 (71 11,0 13L 1
L Q ‘ﬂ‘ VHK 1";
14-921“ 2: =51 1.1L";

.. “W3 3 .4. 1". '1'?
1d. ‘ H .15 'J‘w 1‘1, .1

I *6? M Vitr 911 ‘ 9143“; 1A” .11 mag” 199 1a 1H11
1M11§111 09999“ 9111 99193 M diffmraub attit1de

I‘M*§,I%§ a? 11 61‘9691“1“‘1999991 11‘h 199 £19 zed
~ -h1t 92111919991 11119:,19991 1yf*1“.1119911 111 I" f
.. . 111% 1. 011m 97:1 9 111111111 1951.1 c1113- 7
”19‘ MW ,MMMU'1 199111 1311199 113: 1 1m ilxﬁy‘”
(M199 M’H “39‘. 91101 MM, 111MIMIMMd"-LQ:1ILJM JM sleal
“t;.11""1'1’““’1'11 7 .. 11131 11111118111111 "1.111611 T3“; 11’ I‘ A
'2 3‘4331’91Mv-m ,1 119.” g 1 1 {H3111 1.1111 : 35““(‘1 13.11111 1.6313,
' “w 11191911111 1,1». 1pm. 311‘, 111911 q~1111111~
. M 9999111 MHMMMM}1IIIMMw '11s 9191“
_ tiff}. 211,1 .L'f 1' :59 1,11 lamb“ 33.193111“ <2), 11113211131 U1} " 9.3.1.53311}.
~7113~999189r*~1’21 ~11? 91199119M W M11‘19119113

11111111; 1193]“; ‘1' ”1“” “1111131 In (7615311111 1 3 i”

’5‘
$113 F1391; if" A; ~. ' .1
ﬂ, A a . ‘ ’ 2‘
,,
J

‘ I:

1
.90MM:
*9 I

(9..
1.1;;

1;, : ; M
_. 1153' {71.1.11 ;

1 3u111f 999 ~ﬁﬁx Qﬁwﬁav 1111 1Iﬂwlwanﬁ1ﬂ Human?
”96319311" Lmuld 991 11 M 19 tm 7MM1‘1010 M 099 911113119 ’
”’31.. 1:1 .111 "19931111 4’9 911’» 1.321-: *111‘11111 111-999-399 91*" of the;
:009199'9111 91991 maka it 919199 I99 :uman 7909191131 ta “at
I‘IWLQ 1M 991991 M, b19111 ’JId band _18 M1913 19 9199191»?
'-Mum In: 19H0w11011a ‘meld 991 1M99‘ 9 fear 11199c91919w1n9w
'9911;-11 an“ ‘9991, 191 an? MumMMiMM, any 31 93Ih199- r'”ns,
r.9111 which1M0111‘MMMVMnt an9omv,wmm can 991 tinto a laanwatrrw
5999 EEIW‘;QMLLW EH10 M l-M 999919“? Mftew it 111111M111;,

I Ion? KnQM if 901 hMMM 9191+Ma van] la 0919091311
1:9‘90 naﬁn in ”W5 $919t19 and in unﬁlanim and I Mnnw“
g1 videncM MI MW nMn over 1991 1 1r3m9nd011 aMOMnI 11 1‘
t 0M.16919199199 1191 999 191113h A99 999 tMM Gnaver ‘
MhMMM 991moim1 1 it 1MB? 91%) Man 1 991’ When ynriMay
{9‘1 MIML1 Mataailr 99 W0””1 thaa tnr;»a M ﬂaw an.
‘ ObMMMVMtlnn MM 9P»'*M1M M113 tno‘MMt? 91999” 99999
MIEMMMM 93999 I MMMM ahows W ‘1 ha1wmuld EM Mnarm0ualv _
:SbMMQMM far MM MMIMMJM. Aﬁ nraaan1, MM hava nmtb n9 to enforce,g
1'9Mt huMdrMuM 999 hundMMaM M? Millinns o1 $91119 lof faanal ‘
~.fund1 MMM Bain9 1999 mat bu MMM for MMIMMI excerinM1tation.
I sinMMMer hapa tha ' 909 Mil1_9ivM 9099‘sunpmrt to thM~ Cowper
b111,,‘99 9111 animals 1111 it mmnt dﬁgbﬂwat91Y. I KnaM that

A”K9MM haMM 111 n 19,91callant M09999 far Maimals, and I balieve

~ that if vnu cmgﬁiﬁer the‘gltuatiwu carafullr 10% are 119619 to
VghareIM9 39991991991. It 909 dMn1L, I ho9e 99‘311 let we knew.

aaoretarv~Trea11rer

 




59939932331933 1’99 39633:;

33:13 . ‘ 333.313.9313“ L99 7:396:99; ,: 331:3
3.9.01 ‘ 37733353313171: 3'7': «WOW. . . 5.33:; ”€393
33533193331313.3399 ,9 3.333 399 ,,

. » I » I t»!
3:91:33” 11:93:32,, 1939139993»:

7“ I 99:9 ,3 39:33.1: ”3339: 3'99“” 3.93 91331191 93.23”.” 33393393 93733333,: 9:93:33 939‘:
313337333 “3333: 39633.3 “3‘3“ .9393 33:73? 33": 775933.33 1'? ‘3?" 33193 339*”..133 “3‘93": 333333.:

. 9.3.3... "3‘33?“13: 3.991133339391‘1'3W“ 3‘13... 3.: 33?. 133-: 93 33133393113339 33.:3 .
3333:: {N39 3...: {it :53 3333‘ '3 33‘3”: $1?" 37639. ‘39} .aﬁ.93i77"t733 39:?- a)??? i923», if...»
1"‘337'3975 93:33 “3.3 3913-1333:... 333:3" 3:9 3329:9931: '3‘: 33... 73 3:973.

__ 1‘1; 3:19: 13.23 ”331,330 91339939199329 999339;.» 9 9939931999,», 999,3 93391» 3. 9...:333. .939 ».»»».9»»,»

‘39” fdﬁ i1“ 9:. 9:97.39) "£31133...“ 93‘ :39 33.93 9:99: 9,399.99 99 «3933 999933.33» 393331133“ 3.193) 3
7777733 13333513337'” '77-‘37" “3733‘ 73333 R 9"“‘1’933339333-43‘319 3.9333339 3:39" 93133393333999.3139:
"333393139313 333333 3:39:11: 393912999399 339.9999, 99.3339, 9;,99 9-9 3,33. 93,».39 399:...» ,9». 33333 9.», 33313.39:
Viﬂmmc 9933?} WUWV$ 73713.- 93937353333” .33 233’}? 3 91333: :9: “9mm? 9..» .3: 33.771.73.33 ,1»; I»,
3.3191133333339333 3.333393 11:31.3. 39991137393 9‘37 933913 3:3 “3...... ‘3‘": ‘1!39:::.19‘3.3333193 :923333 3.3339 .
9:339:33. 9333.31.13.99? :3. 3. 11:31:13 311.933.13.91. 3‘33: 9 3‘91. 3.3932 9:333: 93:: ‘31:. 73.13.1399- ,: 33.313339
3:0 3393.33-99‘133; 3 ~ . ' -~ 2 3. . , _ .

I . . ”m I». I“, 4:3." 7 ‘ » I» 7 7 »»»9 » I» ‘ ‘ , .»

13.1.33 0’ 9.3331993173931133 ‘3... 3.3.3; 3 3'13" 9:3. 31.31.1219
. ' .43.. ,9 ,. 9. » » 3 . ‘; . , . ,

33.333993931333931 £137: 33:13:93,399 939:, 37391-3 93339», 3 . , .

 




 




 




. September 17i11933,

'LLLL Florence 111111 LuLL
»Hickory Cornfa 139 hianiLLn

DLLF JILL BuLnﬁ “

. ' I LL LLLWy LL hLVL LLLL LL lonL in erlyLHL LL your
Liné ILLLCF Lf Auguut ISLh. - ThL Lruth LL, I_LLVL bwLn swamped boﬁh"
with warm for LLL animL1L Lad far my ILMilVL but I did LerLLLLLL-
'iyeur erbln“ :1:LL LL lunwun, Lnd I LLLLL L your hLuLaLL and viLwL.

I'_M yLu LLLLL cut, LhL Cmonmv Lil? 13 Let L LurL for a11 LuffLrinL,

1'13? it 13 L L1 11 LhLL,LLLLdL a rLLL01L11L LhancL L1 LLLLLLL. If
.LL do nnu‘qp L LL help the LLLLLIL new in ways LL at are fLLs1b1L,g

. "how is it Loin LL LL LLLLiblL LVLPTLL hLIp them as cmmnletelv LL

1- 711186610

Lyon w1Lh LL do1 TL??? LLLr LLLL L1 liens of animals Lo intc 1&0--
.Hera1011LL. : WL n1mLLLL hLvL LLLn LLILLLILLL1 LIMLLL astronomically.
'This year, deicLl LL LLLWLH FLLLLLLHLLLIVLL LLLLd  for m5" more funéa
warom LLL LLVLLLMLLL LLLL had bLLn allotned last vLLr. Wth'mice ‘
“.only GLLL Frw oLpLLﬁ van can LL13.1mLL1nL how many LLL beinw '

' . ‘Vnu LLLLL of the fact L1Lt your anLLakL KnOWS of 
almost unbLIILVLLIL LLLLILV1_ If 13L GoL1LLr L131 wLnL ILL, LhL
ULWULLLLLOML of LMLL cruel y Gaul d LL LrLuLhL-Lo account. as

1‘ tainFL stand LLL, What  15 bLLnL done about thL cruelty than your
,1nLLLLLkL LLLWL of? I . 4 ,.

I LLL LhLL quLLLILns hLLLuLL your 1L8t1r alTOTtL

’ {seams LL LuLgL uLhLL our Lumport LI LhL GLOLLL bill is in tha

pasto I Lurle hapL thLL 1L nab So, far thL moat gruellin part.
_Lf thLbLLtle LL obta1n dLLLnL prLLLcLILn fLr laboratory anLLLILv

-1L LL111 to .chme. The Luppnrt Of all kind nLonle will bL much 1

anLde when ConLrLLs rLLLLVLnLL nLXL VLLLQ Lna the apponanta W111
vdc thalr utmest to destroy thL 13111a

'With kind regards,

:Sincerelyg

 




Hickory Corners, Michigan,
~' Augustlb, 1960.

Dear hrs. Stevens:-

I thank you for your letter and the enclosures. I assure you that
I am for any experiment which does not inflict “agony on the area-
.tures within.our power. Doctor Banting who discovered insulin did
a great service to-diabetics. I do not know just how he made the
discovery or whether it was through painful experiments. I wish I
knaw o ' *

For a long time I have belonged to the Antivivisection Society

and taken its organ , the A and V. lVery noted and responsible
people write for it.They~give the source, the date, etc. Leland
Stanford University laboratory is accused of 14 cases and many
complaints.ot abuse of animals. my namesake hngﬂs of almost un-
believable cruelty. ‘ ‘ ‘

I have written to Senators and Representatives, to papers in favor
of the Cooper Bill . It proposes some alleviation of animal.misery,
but it is a terrible indictment of_hnman behaviour that we need to
be so reminded. Our prisons are fullch antisocial people. Some

are such a.menace to other human heings (for they only repeat

their crimes when released) they'musttstay confined» Yet our Ghrisu'
tian ethics do not allOW'us to torture them. And we think with
horror on the concentration camps of Europe. ' '

0n the contrary, intelligent animals like the monkey,'the dog are
subjected to scalding, starving, partial drowning, obstruction of
bowels (death in from 5- 85 days) I could go on and on. Merciful
killing is another matter. I do not object to it if necessary.
CEDAES Of IEBANON HOSPITAL, Los Angeles used 20 dogs for obstruction
of bowels. What possible good can come to human beings by such
experiments? We kgg! that no one can live long without eliminating
the waste which accumulates in the body. '
‘We do not like rats endemice but to gouge out their eyes to see it
blind rats could find their way to water through a maze and to see
which rats, the blind or the seeing drank the most saccharine flow
vored water after irradiation ,is sadistic. And the saddest of all
is the person who can torture the lowest of God's creatures in the
name of science when we have anesthetics to use if we must keep them
alive for a short time. But it has not been proved that theaabove
experiments are of any benefit to human beings.

There are many medical centers and experiment stations (I could
name a dozen). All experiment with animals. Of course they oppose

the Anti-Vivisection Society as many are making a fortune in serums
advertised to prolong life.

 




 

We have a world of curative plants which has not half been explored,
The Indians.knew and used them living long, healthy lives. If we
lived.more simple lives- it people did not eat too much, drink too
much, smoke too much, they would live longer and needant resort

to cruel experiments on animals like the dog which is capable of

the greatest devotion and loyalty.

I cannot doubt the truth of the articles in the Anti~Vivisection
magazine. They are all too true of many laboratories. We cannot
protect animalswithout fighting cruelty as it exists.

Many people do not know that such experiments go on in universi-
ties like‘Yale and Harvard and Stamford“ I am a supposedly intel-
ligent person havingytanght.insﬂornals and two colleges, but I
have not known the real cruelty of ViviSection(asit is so often
used) for many years. Now I have to speak out. p A .

I favored the Cooper Bill because it promises an alleviation of
suffering in; eXisting conditions. I do not feel it is a cure.
That is something we must work for. There is a World of reading
on the suhjeot. I still think there are other ways of curing our
ills besides cutting and torturing animals. ‘

Yours very sincerely

 

 




N158: Tashia £1pr I- . *

'. Church'Stmtp,g,.g-Imk Box 11: a .
chmbWWaﬂW York . _‘ K -

.. Plasma ifargivai'tha delay in replying ta yaw lattar' hf August 6th.

4 I- faar that yam? uhstaﬂhaan Mainfamm an was. ai’ the Quinta ' 3mm. miss. '
‘ You stats thati'thsfﬂaawrf hill “malt/3pm thaanfm’naaant “in 'tha‘ahsnd‘s _ ‘
' {sf the: Sta‘téajmgartmnt hf Haalth“, but . tibia is mt truss. ,‘i’ha mam?
bm_1s~ayfadaral,hat a. staw bill.‘ Em; indisata ‘ydnn‘baliafthat

.‘Goviamar' Rocks-fallen“ mam. ha 'ahm the: administratar *ai‘j the Ma, but

" u this maid". maybe tram if" he am almtadz maidant .‘ai‘ the Uni‘tad;, , ' 3

Stat”. vats ﬁathnr hf h‘aw“.Iank,; hawuld has! 2a; jurisémtim whata‘i‘ar “

~ war the 8%th 9f Haalth’, Eduaatian '- ami- halfaraa : 3:: that “aantrary,” " '

th Sacratary. has juriadistiahavar tha ‘hstiahal Inatitutas hf Haal‘th ' a .
. and tha gingham ‘Ganarslfs "affisaa' .‘  In than wrﬂh ha is ‘ahwa, hat balm -
. tha madical ﬁapartmmthg ~ . . * ~ ‘ _ -

i‘ha Chapar hill is an Lantiraléf diffaraht kind hf mam than ] tha'
'fcalifnmia law. Thaw Galiiamia laws tahhat bat anfamad affaativalyg I ._

1 38m:— ta aaythatgit iaatz'angaa thanWI-tha' Gaspar” hill mm awh- f , -
plataly? wrung; that it Wuld be funny if my tha paw ' animals ' wars mt

' a at atakagf If-‘yw mm :m tha-lattsra;£_'_am~thei.Wﬁiaal laptmhanta sf ‘ a   .

thacaapar’bill and than, aha thaaa-aamaiaphananta? praise aﬁtha ~
Scalifamia 1W, yum mum » sa‘a ,hawy‘wm‘g. the: ' asw "‘ataftamaht is. mass

, ‘ iwho mamas affaétadghy it(thsaa'pnrmtars)waam aaaaaahastha _ ‘
' ‘ Califwnia law. Mfiﬂaak mad ﬁmﬁnapar bill strange; in prestige: gammatiw ; r» , 4’

Hfaa" amarﬂaaa‘tal mmm ﬁnmaha FWEI’QMthM_ ham rah-thingftoﬁ-few‘ mm " V

15mCﬂpﬁﬂtmllybmi inhumm om awaited. hairs“ annaaadadin arganihing. " . ’4

L yaahavaayhp  

” upmitian Wméimalreaasmhmtematawhmh iapWarful I arming asa- “
‘ ' n far‘r’hﬁimalaﬁi«sl mama haliavathht‘gyau this}: "he ”halp the .v ‘
. National. Saaiaty far hadichlhaaaamh ahd its: alliaaj to dafaat tbs (Japan
‘kbilla ' j _‘ ~ ._ '  ‘1’ -, * .A ‘ 4, , _

‘ T“ WWW’W: hm WW m-ataaahti’muvgiahyou cmm: "mat—sun fact, ,
Si 357.9 Wald 350%” a ‘1. .mraaoriaa m "paliea ."thamaalvaa and waldfﬁpcrata . a '
~ W 'PWVW all WWI' kinda sf. imitating—man and 1w “encasement? ; is amass;
‘ TMWWWWWW Wuld not: police thaaaalvaa, andth would aa nothing;- to   v»

‘Want Vimaatigatim 5°: shy-kind whichganyom wishad to mam. .

'Hadalai’ma Mahatma ,
’ .Prasidanti ‘

 




l ......l. ...;ninrtllx.

\2... 6......}., .3-» ...-... 3 ; ,-
‘W k .2. \ ‘. «.... ht... . :1... ...K...“ Jpﬂi‘ﬁn‘ 3 .‘H’. .té4.1.... ....» ,7...
m .6 i r J.
x. .f . . .1 6 W
, c 66/

-. a. ...-.6... ...-3.1%
. \zziix “2.1.6.4.... gig 9%.};

wméyw/d \{wzfxa S

3.636.. -. 2... ...-... ... ...-......

... ..\Dw¢ 3.1... d. .) 6
... .6 1. .. ...?»m...
J

 

6%,... .
, u 6736-422 5

......x: r

 

 

33.6.6. .13.}. 5.14%
.6

2...... ...-.6. .. .....6 466.:- k
.6. C
a...Jﬂ 5. tank.

6 6

1...,

0961.96 12,16

 




Vii?
xiﬂvgrﬂéa’kljjkx ﬁ‘huzplngfégwéﬂ‘gﬁ ‘
X

k § , 3“ V . {Na
w ' J I,“ ‘1‘.“ 5m. mow” '02 " ”W‘FH'W‘, #1:: 4‘? QQK
K“ M M
M)?

$2417“, Mag N, Kiw‘ﬂ4"? visa, ”it ”.9“ 5

ﬂan.» w. m!- :n:
anw-v -"-' “NW/ﬁn

”a

“N “EMA AW, 1,5: ,

mg

 




Mm
1 “m“; lam, yi

, V1; 73 ‘35” 1“,”,
3')?” iii“ ”'3‘“ :"L, ”5:?“ '21" i ”(I

v 1934'

 




 

Statement by the Beard

By R. J. CHENOWETH

President, the Humane Society of
The United States

The Directors of The Humane So-
ciety of the United States have author-
ized me to make the following state-
ment on their behalf, concerning a bill
(S. 3570) introduced recently in the
US. Senate by Senator Cooper of Ken-
tucky. The bill is officially titled as
being “to provide for the humane treat-
ment of animals used in experiment and
tests by recipients of grants from the
United States Government, and for other
purposes.”

The bill was drafted by the Society

for Animal Protective Legislation, New

York City.
The HSUS holds that cruelty is im-

moral regardless of the pretext for it.
Our membership, in a national referen-
dum conducted a few years ago, de-
clared it to be fundamental HSUS policy
to oppose and to seek to prevent all uses
of animals that cause pain, suffering,
or fear. The HSUS Board of Directors
adheres to that policy.

We think that it would be also im-
moral, however, to refuse to rescue a
single animal from suffering, merely be-
cause we cannot abolish all suffering.
We do not reject humane progress, even
if progress does not immediately attain
the ultimate objectives of our ideals.
The HSUS will always support any legis-
lation and any action that will genuinely
prevent cruelty and suffering.

e practical application of these
principles in the present instance is that
The HSUS would support S. 3570 if the
proposed law actually and dependably
would prevent or decrease cruelty and
suffering, but. the bill does not satisfy
those requirements and we cannot s

ort the bill as it now stands.

As every active American humani-
tarian knows, The HSUS is aggressively

ﬁghting cruelty in research laboratories.

The Society has spent tens of thousands ‘

of dollars in the last three years on
investigations behind the “iron curtain”
that is ﬁercely guarded by most labora-
tories where animals are used, on court
action against laboratories, and on edu-
cational activities designed to give facts
to the public and to legislators.

 

It is largely our own experience that
tells us that S. 3570 would be an ineffec-
tive law and might even protect those
who are guilty of cruelty rather than
control them.9

 

\Lhem ”State of Callfornfagwhere‘ The

HSUS kept an investigator inside the
laboratories of two medical schools for
many weeks and where the Society is
presecuting complaints against both of
thgsem schoo‘ljh'as a law designed m
tect laboratory animals that IS in many
stron;er than S,

although, the California

statute as bedri’law—for nearly ten years.
it never has beenweltﬁqrced. ‘ he ai-
forniavlaw never has saved a single ani-
1 from suffering. nd9 even;.;-th01“1ig;ﬁ

 

 

 

r The HSUS has spent many thousands of

dollars trying to get the law enforced,

 

 

California laboratories and California
1 state authorities still are successfully re-
sisting enforcement.

(Inn 5 ‘ ..
The fatal flaw 1n the alifornia statute
is that enforcement IS the responsibility

> solely of the State Department of Health.

The i r" ent of Pub 10
course, i headed, staffed and controlled

by men who ‘ rodﬁ ts and allies of
the laboratories thaf‘hge

to police. ven granting that the ofﬁcers
and staff of the Department of Public

Health are honest men and that they
intend to abide by the la

 

j propose

1’

ideas of what they“ feel that the law
should say.

S. 3570 repeats the fault of the “Cali-

The power to enforce the 2 .

 

fornia law.
ederal law would exist exclu-

1 sively with the Secretary of Health, 9..

‘.Educat10n and Welfare.

In practice,
that would place all of the enforcement
machinery 1n the hands of animal- -using
research workers of the National Insti-
tutes of Health and the Surgeon Gen-
eral’ 5 ofﬁce. If past and present routmes
and pollc1es were followed, the Secre-
tary, the Surgeon General and the NIH
would ask and accept “advice” of other

-. animal—using research workers in medi-

.\

\

cal school laboratories throughout the
country. That is the procedure that
HEW now follows in making grants of
Federal funds for research projects.

 

factual effect, S 3570 Would set the labo-

ratories to police themselves and would
operate to prevent all other kinds of
1nvest1gat10n and law enforcement.

The pending Federal law has other

; faults—serious faults—but we would

" retrctﬁmelt .

ea ,0

..... ,...,
oroughly inwured to cruelty to animals

in research laboratoriesa nd they re ard

many cruelties as “

”as...
,4“, o

if not deliberately, interpret the Cali-
fornia anti-cruelty law to ﬁt their own

reject it for the weakness of the proposed
enforcement machinery if for no other
reason. Our own experience tells us that

S. 3570 would not and could not be

enforcedJM
«MW

run—- an ,M,‘ m' "'"m' ......,-,___
n“ «we: - ”W What-Nd 1' “N ,1...

A law of this kind that cannot be en-

l forced, we pointﬂout, is not merely a

Such laws can and do

The allfornla Taw dis-

egative evil.

‘\
~\

7"; 4,
.\
I
I
W

l
l
5‘
i

if
g;
I

“(I'M ’

etcalf- Hatch actb

Wm, th
~ . New York, the Wisconsin ahd Minnesota

animal- seizure acts—all operate to assure
the public that animals are being pro-
tected from cruelty. The assurance is
false but the laws make ordinary anti-
cruelty prosecutions virtually impos-

sible.l S. 3570, in our opinion, would
ave the same eﬂwm

Di: the other hand, neither is the ab-
sence of a law against cruelty to animals
in laboratories merely a negative evil.
The general public reasonably concludes,
if there exists no law against anything
if

humane societies demand none, that no

that happens in laboratories, and

Absence of a prohibi-

cruelty occurs.

(Continued on page 10)

 




 

 

  
  

HSUS Wins Injunction Against

Public Dog Shootings in Ohio

County Commissioners and dog ward-
ens of Lorain County, Ohio, were or-
dered on May 18 by the Court of
Common Pleas in Lorain to stop shoot-
ing dogs on the streets and in other
public places.

The order resulted from a petition for
temporary and permanent injunctions
ﬁled by attorneys for The Humane So-
ciety of the ‘United States in the name
of several citizens of Lorain County.
The Lorain Humane Society cooperated
in the action.

Dog wardens of the county, acting
under orders from their superiors, have
been shooting dogs wherever found, al-

though Ohio state law says that dogs
at large in violation of any law must be
humanely impounded and kept for a
minimum of three days. Many dogs
have been so killed, some have been.
wounded andmaimed.

The Lorain victory had immediate
eﬁects throughout Ohio, where several
other towns and counties have been
shooting dogs. Information reaching
HSUS headquarters in Washington in-
dicates that all such local governments
have either openly or quietly halted the
shootings.

Trial of issues in the plea for a per-
manent injunction probably will occur
during this summer.

 

 

Horse Shows

(Continued from page I)

an artiﬁcial gait, for the HSUS program
aimed especially at ending cruelty to
the Tennessee Walking Horse.

Nation-wide publicity attended the
conviction, in Lynchburg, Virginia, of
A. E. Hauser, wealthy and socially-
prominent local horseman, for cruelty,
after HSUS experts testiﬁed in court that
a Tennessee Walking Horse belonging to
him was exhibited at the Lynchburg
show while suffering acutely and visibly
from sore feet. Hauser, ﬁned $25, ﬁrst
ﬁled an appeal from the conviction, then
withdrew the appeal, paid the ﬁne, and
changed trainers.

'The trainer who rode the Hauser
horse to win a blue ribbon, Wade Stepp
of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, failed
to attend the trial in Lynchburg, plead-
ing his doctor’s orders to stay in bed.
A warrant was issued for Stepp’s arrest.
His scheduled appearance as horse show
judge at the four-day Tulsa, Oklahoma,
show was cancelled by the Show Com-
mittee, and his activities are under in-
vestigation by disciplinary groups of

two horse show associations.

A hearing on the subject of the horse
show judge who awarded ﬁrst place to
the sore horse has been scheduled for
June by the Virginia Horse Shows Asso-
ciation. Members of the HSUS staff,
the Virginia Federation of Humane So-
cieties, and the American Walking Horse
Association, who have been cooperating
energetically in the program against
mistreatment of the Walking Horse, will
attend and give evidence.

New cooperation by show ofﬁcials,
withdrawals of several. entries, and an
entire absence of sore horses from the
show ring at Waynesburg, Pennsylvania,
were evidence that exhibitors, whose
costs for bringing a horse to a show
often amount to over $1,000, and result
in a total loss if the horse is not shown,
were unwilling to risk a second legal
round with the HSUS. The inspection
at Waynesburg, second in a planned
series of surprise raids which will reach
across the country, was carried out by
HSUS staff members, Dr. Clayton
Stephens, of Verona, Mississippi, special
veterinary consultant retained by the

HSUS, and experts of the American‘

10

. and

it

t

32:32: _.,,,:

t

  

Walking Horse Association who volun-
teered for the work as a part of the
Association’s support of the HSUS pro-

gram.

 

In Milwaukee, Wisconsin, The Animal
Protective League and the Wisconsin
Humane Society effectively policed the
Milwaukee Spring Show. Several en-
tries were withdrawn, and one horse
exhibiting a suspicious lameness was
penalized by being excluded from any
'award. However, in Lewisburg and
Shelbyville, Tennessee, where Governor
Buford Ellington announced that he
would personally undertake to clean up
Walking Horse cruelties, observers re-
ported many sore and bloody horses,
some of them winners of the horse show
classes in which they were entered.

  
  
   
     
   
   
 
 
  
    
   
    
 
  
  
 

   

Board Statement

 
     

(Continued from page 9)

tory law implies social endorsement of
what might be prohibited.

  

It is highly improbable that this Con-
gress will act on S. 3570 in any way.
Congressional leaders hope to adjourn
the current session in about three weeks.
Another bill of the same kind, however

probably will be introduced in the next
Congress.

In the interim, The HSUS will initiate
sponsor several conferences of
American humane workers to discuss
this subject and to move toward a work-
ing consensus about the best method
of achieving the objectives desired by
all humanitarians. The subject also
will be thoroughly discussed in The
HSUS annual Convention, to be held in

Los Angeles September 30- October 2.

”(4" "wt

We repeat, because we want to be

 

 

sure that we are not misunderstood, that

i“

The HSUS will always support legisla-

 

tion that will actually prevent cruelty

I(and sgﬁerrwe withhold support from
S. 3570 because it would not do so

“3““ ‘17: ﬁg

  
  
     

JELJ‘Q Aﬂgt

   




»‘ Esas as ssas ‘

‘  . j W: .29 1960‘ , - _

- 15%.", Charges .53“ 61.3383 ~ -
w} ”trait. 13,1, gﬁcmgm.  

: ,IVIs'm may" sass slasinrstmisgshislaisas whmhym ss kw}: -. ~ g 4}
. } 'ssad. _ My ss-sghsss “was warrisd this say Misssyss s3" sf‘bsr thsssssing had - }
, ,bssn amispozgsd “swing"ssihsfibridssrsss‘s iiisssmﬁs I'sbshinsﬁn W1 . }_ '

a « s

' I may" hardly sail m as I, hsss ssssias dalifomis as his was .~
”What is. ss Miss {31“ qsssiiss ssim “st“‘i’askss 19] mm” W , ;* V f ,
isms. ; s32? ssssss, .srzs isdisissslssimtiss has is? has assimmd mm 1 I

, ,rssmssisis ssssssg has} is is {as ‘ has shsis; MW; a that is, "maissprssmts
shsshsislsbssassry, ssdif sis ,lisssse ssss's“,,, ﬁzz. as Mahdiimom has -

i _ issihs shsis issssstsrs Weiss—1s ssshmg thaws, as. just sass slams! ~- ,, g f ‘

issssssssiiy ngshss ins i'mnssssi alum tar-its was sadism is is},

V ma is sss has-assess why as mamas. Cslifsmis sisssssis awsmw W L

snfsrssshlsa ,. 32% as is Ws‘Gssmrhill, asaaasassias s: assaswmm my 4 ‘

‘lisssssdg sham ‘ his mass sass 13s swarms ; 3}“ wvshsd sisssus sensing W p .
' srsasssssscmssisns sss "ms, $17516; sass" hssitzsssts issshs. this ”WWW ‘
' ‘ 7 assa- a m: is sass as shs1-{3smsssislss isssthst its mismaasss ‘ ’1 "

r i V ﬂash is sill ssss be M Sﬂitiatawm -s$gs‘,'thscm ' 7 m [a a

‘ ‘ liks ta hsss.issriiiss71ﬂmthscsa mzis W, }st ibis: mas; _ - 1

V , . , ~

pull “swash. Wazmssshsnd firmness (harass

' ] Miss is sssas as ms sa‘ézssaa bill Was-W “tharsWsm-s , *
‘ ﬁssisssisss lss‘isssisissrsisrmss is wvssssi shag... 3-“: sums.- w
‘ ' Mt .ﬂlis,_is‘ s assists sismsnm i i’ sssﬁsn iisi“ shes :Gssmr" billsgsis. 3: Each - . ‘ " ‘

W

_ , s nsssshst saaasaaasa asa assasaasssasaaaasaa s as , V

indiﬁdusl sciss‘triss is rs‘sssnsims far his smimiﬁmls, sustains * 9.931123%: , Q - '

' hs, happsns is has gmssms at my? ﬁsss hiss us -'diffssssss assassin his
rsspossihiliiy. . Tits saﬁsals must bs' hassssly :trssjtesd st s11 hiss-93 : as s if they .
' aim has hs is. tbs (3:1st is subjsst is}. has silicsssssad also, in assay has», 4

' I ' lass of: msusssds as dsnaimsf sassy from s fsdss‘sl Erma 1 ~ , '

Tbs csspsr "sill am; ssh "us-ssss ,
: mcssaw ass: apgssllisg“ sham mssdm which mid}

R ' * yimpossibls s9 pas—s missus, an my'ms insist:

w 1 sha'acisasiat, under any Coossr-billimusths ms .i‘m a . , _ ,
V '31 OQWWKGX‘ 033‘ MW'hml-‘ﬂ Whﬁ 100k ﬁftw MB shims: am doing it pmperly‘ ,
If his sm'thas saw ass who am ha, mmiahsd, ans-ma ‘mmmmmm mm <

' W "  ’ as asaaasl wast s assa «Ma-sis “Whammmy W” M j

_. '1; is may mama": ham status jar j twists assatam was an 9mm}.
' this -~smi-sivﬁsscsisn swims” in} amassing the [Coopsr bill, and. I aural? assassins» ' . .

masaaassas am , _, ,
~ , ssmammmms ” " w

a: ‘ . . ‘
as: aw: . «u the 214”, . '

 




‘g; 51:27 5551555 Mum
BM“. 13;, 5101215511

33$“ ”1'5: (115153,,

5151: 5555551 55 15: 51555515 " 1' ”7.4 1
‘ 5? 1t 1555M 511.5 the: 55‘ ‘

1 ~ 1 435 25555 .111 1:15 WWW-v, " WWW 511 1115‘ 51.115 11511 €111 1315-3 551 will M

1555? £55 55:: 15 555 5315 1.5 12511155 1.1513: 555 511555 555.... 5515 1551 111.. 21.1.5115
{1M5 1151; 5155 51151151.. 115 15515.55 5515551155115 5111511 5115 5111.1» 1.5515555 325511.11,

15555 111 111.5 11.151. 55155555553237 15555155115 555511515 ‘ 311% WWW 1'11 11911 “W 5.5 11151: I.

115 55111151. 11 «:55 115% 15.155 55511:, 151* 535551515, 1:55:15 5155 5:51 .1151. 1135 655555»

5111 5551.5 511551 51:35 5:15 551' 551115 5:. 51555555 1135 551.55 5.5 5.5 1.15:: 555511155 _ It:
‘ ‘ W515 351* 15:55 51 551.1515 115 5551551; 5215551 155 1515. 5511555151551 15.: 13551151 , - ‘- .

1 g 111.13. 5515 11111..

and 1511515 5 355151155 55111 3115151511 1’53"}.551’5 1 , _ ; ; .
' 1t. :15 55319:. 1551 55551515555555.5515 55551.5 351:: 1.55 5511552. 5551

H I N 211511551 115555551: 15 55555155 W 1553511553. 1153111” "W 3w” 55555 M 55555155551

-. . ~- 551 111 155% 55111555 W5 3511 “1.5 11155 1 . - in 1135 11551: 155555 135131.
1 “8115 101183» 31133-811?“ $30? ~ --~5’.5‘55555>h;515555 5115153. 5511 ’55 1551111151

‘ ‘. Viv-155551511 g-‘gﬁy 5555 1.5 :15 511555155 1.55 05555 ”5.111, :15 :15 "55555515” 11:51 1’5 . fj

" 15 515155 “555555 15 v { »~ ~. ~ ~ + *1 51  .

...f'i:;-vbill5 1315555 5555 1‘ 1 55 5155 15 51115555
555555m 111 11151555 5115 the 11.8555 515 *1: haw ‘

‘ . 5555555. 5555551555 551. 5555 151‘ 1315 511155155 £11 5mm1~~  .

11:5 515 555 55515155555551.5155 55 551. *'

9‘, 55551 112:. 11155555 555551 55-51115 1555555555 ff‘ ‘ I

51515 15 5555 55515 5515515 Wm 55 55555155 5555151 15?: 1.55 5555”“. I I. .~

- 51515 that it 55155 51115515 '55 51155 that 1:1 155555 555551511. 115111 5:
.1 333$ 5334565. . ‘ . ., I

. :5 55 5555 55 55155553. 555511155 15 1.55 655515131, 115 155: 51‘ 5

5555555 53511 5111511 555' m 1515 1555 51 1115555551 5! . a [1.5 5 1? 515W 1’?

I1 155515 551 5 551551.15 5555 55551551 W ”W0 “ J '1 '1
115555 155 m 1555 515:. you 5555 555 55 1:15..  ‘ ‘ A
5555 5151155, '

 




.5‘5‘Haﬂ H 3921023

{ﬁvaa’371v15'

I170 OEJIUO/V\ 3a my) gruﬁg
.7» 31.4mm) 5‘ 30”! 0/4 / 773/\/\ '19 N/O
32; H 1.1 11 X .1. (:7 H 1w ‘ .1. r 117‘»
4915-37491705“ IVOJ735- //\k
"AL ”25‘? ”3-? ”.1. {7.1. “ " ‘9 N 1021' 07‘? f
.1.” E1 (11211179541311 m .
3/4167 9H . - 0;!- .< ‘LN hum

‘0-7/7‘0 N\' 170/" 3‘217'1422‘

 

‘L..L A’bt7“" '/M Off " ” O'NH ’ {HM/.2. .197??? E" l.‘
231/20/ 4111732)! ‘40}; [(vvagg‘wwff'“

wfl

Q 2/ 67' H 7 Id. a/ \/ ”" W10 “"“ 77“£,‘" Z -‘1.
2/ {7 " C79 3 3 [-4 "h 5.3 A?!" El 1;!“ ' _. {7 .1; h "CI“ 271? 11%;} "“ ‘yrj

s‘T/ﬂ‘asrmgo 311.13" X11: ‘ X3111“ b15157“

-9 N‘IHLLEW 1E7w [(MH 3‘ .. ""Wﬁ”37/{ ’U 3 5‘ 77 .3 N 07

f. . . _.._........-..... .. .. - ..- . ......-._... ..__...\....._

‘ ’ 3—4 7‘" :10 N H 7'" A r I 91.]. - ~ N\ :5. A!“ (:7 N H

 

”4’43"”8" 21’ M X *9 11° 11.21 39' ' Us .1 .117

 

 

fYNh'ﬁ'AELS vats/”‘éréié'itj ‘

’uﬂﬂugﬂnkl in! $3ij 17-ch:
r “NY-“- A‘;-;:’ nut“ ’3‘“? w?“
sgulgm ‘7’ "an @131“

0715/ 4a“ 31"“?

 




"33:33...“ 33.1.12. Fitagerald
. ‘3 33.138 PM '
_yi!¥nrtford 5, Smut mt

_ “Dear 233. 313.3333 :33.

”WW WWI“ W3 3313*" 33 1'33". 3331333333 3323 3.333.333 33333:. 33333331333333- 3.3333-“jf'"I,“

W .ﬂmFmﬁ 333333. 33333ng 33333333333333.3333333333:...3;3.3;;.3 3311;43:3- wgyy. 33.: . .g : {3, 333.33; .3, _ ,
13W WW 333’“ 33331“ 3333 3333333333333333 of 333233 3333 333 1373333 3333.53.33 (333:3; , '
W ~3113h) W3 WW3 333‘ 33W 333” 3W3 3‘33 WHEY/1r 3333 33.33: 3.33.333hI333.3 .33 .53 33.3: ” .
., 1’33 1133 3333 has: he 5‘33: 3333333m 3333:! 33 33-: 3.3333333: 333.3,}: «3.31:3 3.331333322313333 333.3. 3.33 ' ‘ ' .
WEII 3115.333 “hill III" “3.8 "33333.? m“??? “333331? Nbﬁﬁﬁﬁ 13331333313333 $3336.: 3. “in éﬁ‘ﬁbﬁmlﬂglfﬂ 1333*“3-“1 . .
. 1W Mdﬁmé'a 3.3 33. 333 31%; 3mg:- wry 3333333333333 3333 ﬁmfrgmﬁ ﬁnﬁm’ .3 3' 33333-3 333333
* 73m: mm Ibrrim it... - . _ _ , , _. J , .

I 33333 333.3 33333:: 3.3.2.3: 3.139 3.33 3333333.... .33333333: 333333 ”(2333334333 3:33.. 3.3333333: "3433.“: 33333" {333.33
W533 IJLQM hm. b33353 S”"td1ﬁ@£3 {311331.135 WWII-3.33333 $351335 bﬂiﬁm’lﬂaﬁ Wulw RIVER 333337313 333.231.3335}: ‘33“
WI 33333 ”333 3‘33- 33313 3333 33331 3-3.3 “33' 3""3333333: 33333... I 333333: 3333333 33:33 34:3 33 :3h IIIIIIII:

' ,qu 1321333 «33:33.: 33333.3 33313.3 33333333333333.3333; 33333 323.33.: 33 333133 bmfglﬁa 3333 3.3333 .3333 3.3333333 , f '_

.wnaaimw 13.333333 3: .3333 3333 3.33.33: 333333: 3333 43333333 be 33333333333333 33.3.3333...

. T3 393: :33" 3, I 1m I: 3.3331 y‘mz that: 3233: 3333.313 3:3I" 33333 3.302333313111333 “33.333 "3.3 333.33: 31.3 3.33;?“
m 93335343330 33333333.“:34 3 3.33 3.3333 away. 33:3 3:333 333 3.333.. 3...: 33,333. 33-3 my ‘ 333333.333;

I'm WIWWWWW 33”“? 333‘ 343‘ 33‘3333. 33.33333 34? 33:33.3 ‘3 1’33 333333333 33333.. 3313.33; 3.33.3.3 3-33

5 am in my GI‘IuWIW’It-ﬁﬁu 3333 33 33333333: 33:3?" 3333' 3333-3 33f 3333.3 333.3333ti3333 3.33 333333333:

.WfWWW 39-33333” mm 33‘3” 33333333" 33333 33313" W :3 33333233 333333123 3:333? 3:333... 3:33:33 2333' 3333333
M13333 33" 3333333 3:333 33.333333¢ ca :33 313313 3 3.3333033! 3333323331. 33:31:35.3..-u33. , _

1 T3 3333 .3011 331'": 3333333 G31” mm: 33333332“ In33333*3...33.3. 333333.31. 3333.3 33331*““ 33.33333 13.3333 333 3,33

33 3 "’313333 3- 3W 33 "33333333 33233333 333333333. 3.33 3333- .3 3.3; 33.3 3333333333

_. 3333:: .b .3: 3.3233... 333:3 333333 333.333: "‘33:: 3:33. 3.333» 1:: 33333.3 3333”: “3.333333 I3 1.1 bf? 1:33:33 Mai}
. 1?: 333333 3.33 0:33. 33333 33.33.33: 33:33:31 3333333 7333333 33333313333 33333331333 (.3: 3333333333 3533333)
9 " It. I- 333333. to 3:133 130333313331 33: 3.33333 3333333333313 333 333333 33f 33m 3333333333.:am-33 333:
try ‘30? 333.“ 333333 3.9:; £3333 3 3312‘ 33:3 933133 3133322333 3...:33 3.333 It 33333333,, 333333 I 3333:3133 333333333333
_mbaa-q3mht 313313.. .3. 33333133 3333333 33333: 3333333 {33333 3:333 33333: -313 33.33333 3333 3333 33333133. 333333,
.1333. trust: thin-:33 33:11.}; auffim 333 at"? my 1. 3.33333 3333 3.3.3313 3.333331133333333 in 33:32 3333333 U V. 3
that 11131336313333 by 333 $3333 3111. 391% 1313333 If 33333133 333333 “3333133333 13:: 3.333%
3333333333133. 5336 3336A 13:31-33 133333 333133.... 3333 3333333 33133 13333333333333 I333: 3.3333 3.333333:
eight. ym, I 3333;: than: mycgwmtyulw .3333. -. - ‘ 33b 3:. 1% 3133.: 1333:: W 313
labor ~ 3333333333333 3333333333 333333. 3.3333333}: 3.33333 333333 33’ 3333 333333333 Way 3333
m than In 31m: 33% 3mm 3:333“ mfmabm 1333331333333 3333333333 33133.... Th33~n 3:» 9

“W ably WW WWW a 3 33133 33333.3 33mm 3333 333333 333’ mm g3 333333 .

3m m we 333333.333. 313.1 3mm mm 333333.53th m3

1 33333131033 this partimlarly 133333331333 yw 5.3131333.“ 3.33333 yam: £3333. 11333331333 30333333333
, Wald be Me 33333 ' by 33333313333 afI 13333.3th than 3W3 33333333333 by

3:» 8333mm at 3333313213, 3333333333333 332333 3331333333. 033 - "owls 33f logic; 333333 33333313
7m ta bu no: 133113333333 33333 Wis 33 333333333533» 33313 , 33336 333333 33333111.
"mammal -- ~ . Emma badly came! I333 mm 3333 333333 aim 33 3333333333 7

. mats... I haw 11333.3 faith. in 33.333333- :3? thaw 31 Wbimm baa-3333133 3.3“.

I W “"3““:- Wmm ‘35 3m 333 3333 m 3333333133 and .33...3.333. 1* «

 




‘.2.»

If the enfarcemen‘3 "Of 333 133 3333 placed 13.333 hands Of 3333:
333R 3133 1333333 of 333 33333 3f 3333333333 1333333033 P333333131
33 333 333333333 it 33313 33 1333331313 33 keepra praper 33333 on
‘333 the 133'333 33133 33333333. .33 if 333 333333 Soci33R 3 have
333123333 333333331 to 3333 to 133 33-3 33 3 1333333333.I333 33313 3333
.3333 333 33i3ntifi3 333333133 3333333333>3333 333 33133 3333 to 333
3313313 333 33333 333 333 333333 3133331 33 exp3rim3nta? Just to
mention 333 313313 33331333 333 3333 333333 3331333 offi3333 know Eh
333133 of.“ 3.11313" 33.3 3.3333 3:35:33. 333313.33 133311311 31133 33331333313133;
33 331331? 33313t 33 33113‘3 313; 333 any 331333133 333 333333 to ,
1331 3 hua 33 33333 333 333333 33333 333 3331 333333 of 33 333331333
330  33 3351 I33-3333 3I33 3 3333 3333 33 3331333'13333 333 33113 33,}
33333333 33 33 13313 33'333 33ﬁ*3 R3 3331 *3333333? 33 333 33133 3W
1 3333133 3f 3313313 31” 3333333 33 3333 333333 3333 pr33333133 than N
"13333 333 133333333; 33 313. 39 v a 1 1 -

$333331 133 33 33333333 3333 333 3'33? $3333 1 3333 for 3313333
>33 333 333333_3r331333 3: 33133133 I 1333 333,333 3333 333 Gooper
i 3111 3311 33 3333,33'1311: :33 333 3333 333‘333333331 3333133 and
,_th33 '3‘3111 333'b3 333’ ‘3” 3* 3“"*““”DI ”3-h3v3 3333n3 333133133
'33f3333 133 for I 3 333 333“ 3? 333 3333 3333 333'3333333333 and “
333 33333 33"“3 in 3 33 433133 . .- -1 - -

3 = D3 3.313333' 333 13 33303.”3? I ”31““ 3333;333‘3333,3333 l hopé
333 3 I 3333 3333 3133” 333 33 31f113 33333333, 3 33 not 33333 With 311“

331333 331% 3333 1373333 133'331'I3 33 3 3333 3h3 3313313 333 3333
3ff33 133 33331313 3333333333. "‘ 4 .

,3133333133.1

3333333333T33333333

 




5, Kiles Pa.rk,
Hartford ), Conn., July 23, 1960

Dear hrs Stevens;

Thank you very much for your letter of Ju1y 25 and
for sending back the correspondence of Dragstedt, ryan and the two
papers from the SPCA of England.

here are some letters from the Dept of health,
Education and Welfare of the Food and Drugs Administration. I
thought they might interst you. It doesn't seem to me that hesers
Harvey, Larrick and Trawick have grasPed the situation in the
Food testing deggrtment. They don't seem to me to realize,that
the dogs are being frightfully treated. It certainly is a goo d ctiing
that Ann Cottrell Free got access to the place where the dogs are con~
fined because surely if ti ere hadn’t been an outcr5 from nan5 eeople
Laarick and the others would have let the matter slide on. You see
it is "in res; o213e to inquiries" that Larrick issued the oiatcieot
Although the dogs were“born and brought up in a contro‘led environ ment"
That seems to excuse the FO‘d and Drugs people to some extent
But every animal that wasnit born in the wild was born and
in a controlled environment. low the F and E people are
ploring" the pos*ibility of making better conditions for

a good thing it is that someone went there and found out ~ 1 ceidi-
tions were.

 

 

The second and third garagraphe in hervey’s let1L er are
really astonishing. ”The aniaals are kindly treated, su51plied vﬂi;h
adequate food and water, and the quarters are well lighted and ole
But the animals are evidently not kindly treated, and I daresay they
get enough food but i doubt the water supply, and i am certain that the
cages are not clean. As for their being well lighted, I do not doubt
that brigm lithts are ke53t "OLEL day and rivht so that the poor things
have to put a pas over their e5ue s when they can forget their miseries
in sleep. Paragraph 5 is the most astonishing. if that is the accepted

aboratory cage it's time a radical chcnge was made.“Faot abnormalitieszv/
”sufficiently larger than the ”rinsl to permit the occupant to move '
about easily" heavens above.

I wrote to harvey vithout any ecific mention of anything
he said because I thought it would he no use Ste point out anythihg. But
the foot abnormilitiee were too much, and I did mention that a foreign
scientist inspected the dungeon tl irteen years ago and expressed eur-
grise that animals 1or tests were kept like that and saying that their
metabolism would be affected after 3 years. After 5 weeks or less, I
should really think, thought I didn’t say that to him. And Trawick
answered the letter to harvey, and you see what he says. '

 

1:11

If 111ese are the wrese itative: of the Health,
ation and eliare‘ﬁwg mt ent I: ~ ould think that representative of tLe
huiane Societies wo=ld rwor ehtu at1orthy exauiners of laboratcoi es.

EU.”
8

 




e
7
2 ﬁ-.

wanéering around n ‘ among a few
and the ﬁertferd .e: “e -‘w‘ arlw-hktur
or five years old, was -, ’! s z” 2 pack Of cogs
lin , cl wing battle . ,* in the merning
country evidently ver 1 y‘ * g -‘ “ roaming, deserted
5.01103 aar‘L ‘ 1-_ on x»‘ t0 undesstend

ﬂ

.- mm are _, . ’ ’53:. 63 even tually

8»??de ‘
deeertie nss ‘ 33=4 , a ‘= : * see one of
e an example

. r ‘ , . .
em ' ear, aha ~ « 4w _ we“

car next an. H not so long
+Ve w: 2, ‘ nearby had to
the lumane Society.

 




MW ZHHHWM Hukwmmm

HIHKVHN‘HHUOHNU m» OOHZ‘ZHWOHHOGH

 




 




3313 355T1939_,»

3333.333” 11333333135

1333?  33 3333 I33 1333133 33 333 333
1333333 1333 1135333333333 333 333 333 33333 by D331-
»333333 1"*3 333 3333 333133 31 3333 333 I 33 333333133 3
f 3333 3133 3113 I33333.f333 3333 333 q 133 3 333333333333331

' !” I3 13 3333 333 3333 333 1% S 333 3331633

33 3333 133 133‘3133 333'“’313331 3331~1131333+133 f‘

;,1331333 333 33 333333 333 333333 3511. 13313 333333333

f 3333 33 13 3333333 33111 33 333 3233313333333 13 333 _ . .
133333 33 33{3313313 333 3111, 333 13 333 333 333 133333133
31 333 3111 3 1333333 3333 3113 333313 33 33.113 3333 “

” 333 33 331333133 ’333 333'33333333 33333 3333 393333

13 333 1333333333 33 3331335 333331333333 131I333 33

‘ " IIIIMI a5; tﬁmka {311$ 1.313111331313113 my‘ (:1 (”a 3m11*1*33nu1r33

13 333 13331135 3333 133.3 333 3333333 3133.

' 3333333 33 “33 333333 333 3.;“33313k,‘

' 33333333 3313333 -31 3333 333 3310331333..1333 333'- ' - .
.33I 1133331133 3111313133 I3 3333 3 3333 3331 33 311333 .
g 33 13333 33333 333 331433 13 33313133 33 333 ”333 I
.g333 3333 133131333331335‘133, 33 333 33335 3333
'"333333333 13333 133 333333 3333313 333 333 3335133 33

j‘;3333 333333333133 33313 33 13.333333133 I3 13 333

. 33333333 33133 333 333 33331333 333 133333 33 330
‘33333 33 3333 33 33 33 333333133 333333 33 333 3h3
333133 333 31 333 3333333333333 133'3333331 333333 13
.333 333 833333 3333I3333 333 33333333333 3333333133133
31‘333331:33 31333133, 331 33 3 333133333 I333 333 33333'
- 3f 33p3333333 1333 3333 3r333 33 3313 13 333 63333333 '
f13 33 3333 33 13¢ If 3‘13 13 3333 3333 333333 3113333

- 3311 3333 333 3333 33 333 3 3333131 3333333133133
_'3331,, 1131333 33113 333 k33331.333 1333331333 331131333*

‘ " 2-, I 133333 333 3333133 333 3333 31 333 "Im1133
I111 3 33333 33334333333 33 3313313; I13 133333133.13

,n 33333133. 13 333 333333 333133? 31 133333333 133333 in

~23.4433111&1 33 3333 3333 333 33333331u1 33333333 333 3331333
'= 3333333 3333.33333133 33 3 331 3I 33313 3333, 30 it 13

1Y1 3333 333133313 1 3333 3333 3.1333

313333 333 3 333 3313 I333 33333 333 133333

' I 3111. 131w3 33333333313 333333 333 13 333 3333 333331331.

3333313 3331331133 333 1333333333 33133133

3333333135

 




Thank

.‘ '!

Cooper 3;;1
that the9 er;-
printed form
Education
John Larvey,

Drugs Depart
nephew wrote
thei th ”nod
hey condi
evmg

”I l 1‘?

r: 9»
oh

I Luant, a
to

1'3),

at LA.

,ﬁxp

“A
had

ndcd

pousiv

7"
$1.:

L.

,
tors m1

9
air
Mat

of 8‘:

(-
C.

~1

‘4

O
O

(x

”S C"?

a
Q

*1":

fe
I "36- mo

[3
Ab

panalt

O‘TIGT';
‘ce

'1 'r
"\I

your letter of
E 1 1 the

bjcc
?r0C-“dingé

a.

U

u for

5
8301031pg
th’

51.3 '..\
-26., L./

L
of

.1 .J

“Ii

m

I} 111

J. a
aetuallu

Gorge Lgrrick
1

Larricg
of tﬂ

for
:e reasoninﬁ

LACIE

tr
u;;<¢

-P
’3‘ 13v r3
quilt;
11‘" '4 "1/" )3.
mad groum too
O
VlCtllL ‘
ecIors era

‘9

pg.-

to

'E
f" F.

a minute;

L’ML O:
:r
”JUIQLE

A
b“
\J

‘
vs {\a‘

3

.L ‘

t. 4 .L ’1“

:9 Ab BWaGN-“'

July I

l
letterc

APCtOtU 0
5E3 EFUEE
letters

wrote I0

.33 71

do-

v J J
7.
,

1:11}: C 1 i

 

oar'
If. t1“ u L: a
ME? 1:019141)

{N

 




ﬂ ’1‘-
:30
)

¢ ~.>- J. ‘u.’
J 1.1.3:: 1:},

‘ v.
'1..>-kw 3: I» a

2"“?

hr!“

«,9
. z
\r

.

w 3 1‘ if- a v. ‘ -
"‘ .1.
. .4

AM" ‘4 .-
:1» K3? i-UIK'

mi

' ‘N-I‘Zﬂ‘ﬁt'

I
3.’ «.9313» m L.

a.
1.}
J

1’"; 6'31 .Y
3 k. , *1,
(‘3, 9731337 7'"? .13

lath)“; U , "- - . J - _- ‘ ~ _
3 ' A“: ' , . , . ' L v -, x _ ,1 ‘1 7‘ ‘ 5"“
' . 4330.224.

3
L.
I'
I

{f

t:p\‘
iii)“

53:} “rm 3 “101.313 1' 23153.33“ 1. 110301131le and ”m 3.13.. :13; :11; 310 1‘1 2.1.5.133
” 1% Sfif l3 anﬁ‘genatgr 7013; rhs133312033§§£bo h ‘
{giggig 0’- .C5 t?“ £39 ”2115:. 1'- 4..” (air. mt tizri .1 wax-1:1 "731193 {:3 ' V ‘ ‘ . {35. g j:;1{30 ‘ 83.516-
‘032333101 bill .u.l?wu:, 30316 :.33.9. , 2.3 fobt 3:
’hum333 treatme t a? aanq ,,_3 an 3316

131.4,,
133733 33 speech1333.

Bias/e.

 




 

-. 4 3.» 5' n???“ “‘3' ""3 ‘ “IL-“rim

. ‘ 4-3: ‘ ‘ ~ 3‘ H-wﬂ 1‘ ~" (3 f” U Gilt; gchLJ-TCL'J’ " ,1 .5!

honﬁ~ﬁhat p3iggansWJTS Laa_3u§9 3 Ifzviw‘quw»wwph
- ‘ 3'33. 3;. .3.“ . 3' 333‘. {:30 8' E3 11'? 5 .3 . 3’ - if ”N“

.L
' I ‘ ‘ ‘ v .. --« “‘4 *J: ' ' '3 h J,“ "‘ r *3. (-9 4". " If?!“ 7' ‘
3 333:» “33:3 333:3 nag-2.333 , 33:3 {3313. u 3. 3-331 ,Jﬂi .9 03A
! 3

.-\‘.‘ ' ‘3’ v‘
1‘ EL $2 (‘3

“ 3 ., _ a _‘ -3 ‘e‘ .w - .
L1?) 2:) '13 ' 3.) 1.1L ‘3'? l A... 5"“:
,L c’
, . ‘ _ n M “ , 3‘“ ~ -, ‘5 '3'. “_.., 1‘ ,v. 1 , Huge. ‘ ‘_ ‘ {"35 ‘ . 5.: ‘7' -
331?};3361‘ 33.13.: 5 7? 3.11713? $0119 {:3 1'" if v.3 VTZUIJMH " ~'“ ‘~ . ‘" ‘ " ' " "
5333351 .3, (ml? gﬁgOOCL 113:) A“, 33.31““ m. 3.; 3

L 5P§

A
{1“
f.
., .J
x.»
“a
f‘ 1
5.4
as-
“.3-
L. z
s‘
:3
f6
\
,..
V
’0‘.
H.
a,
K
g-q
v3

‘

1

ﬂ 3.? ' ,3... .9 ,_, m
:3. I331 has 3 w .. 5333;; $3,

 




“ Wfﬁ‘ehmﬁr”ﬁenerem~ « .

wt ,. . .. ‘> A m .- ,’. , -~ ...-
yoom~pm.vr **\*nn
4‘ h

v- - .L. L) \J x. nL -..: ILA :Jaki- -.I .I 5...: j
"1 :‘IL. A 2"; 'u‘ i n Q .. '-
Lcﬁ‘lx? L‘Jor’tﬂ EStL stirs “JI-
- g V Y ,.,, p. I .
rashes 15, siseonsln

no.

To our Members and Friends:

You will recall that in my let er of June ls , re: The
Laboratory Animals Bill (S~3§70} introduced by Sen. Sceper of Kentucky, and spon-
sored by some Bartlett {sleeka), Sen. Byrd (W.Va.), Sen. Clark (Penna.) Sen,
arsening (Alaska), Sen. Kefauver (Tenn.), Sen. Mansfield (Montana), Sen. McNamara
;ﬁieh.), Sen. Proxmire (Wis.), Sen. Morse (Oregon), Sen. Randolph (W.Va.) and
Sen. Williams (N.J.), that I felt that because the bill was so controversial in
nature, and because I honestly felt at the time that there was some glimmer of
hope that it would in a measure lessen the suffering which millions of laboratory
animals are called upon to endure in the name of scientific research, that I asked
each of you to make up your own mind whether to support the bill or to register

your protest against its passage.

I have done just this very thing myself. I have read and
rewread the bill many trues. I have searched deeply for some assurance that it
would helE the animals, but in all honesty that I cannot find any.

I have seen no willingness to change the present language
of the bill, in fact there is every reason to believe that amendments will be made
that will even further weaken the bill. There is grave danger that the bill may
pass m whioh as things now stand would prove a great set-back to the humane move~
ment in the U.S, « hence the need for IMMEDIATE ACTION on the part of every human-
itarian.

In my letter to Sen. Cooper I pointed out the fact that I
support the bill as a measure of relief for the animals only if representa~
of the leading humane organization in the U. S. were on the board of enforce»
but no move has been made to provide for other than the "autocratic authority"

Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, and when that power rests solely
hands of the deparhneit that is bent upon more and.more research, the very
new setting up extensive plans for the raising of thousands upon
:nds of monkeys for research projects within the U. S. a you can be quite berm
’.in ;1at this department would not be greatly "moved" by any feeling of compassion
. tre animals needed for SACRIFICE to this modern day GOLDEN CALF or craze for
medical and scientific research.

56

“win the animals ~ but Sec. Flemming will not remain in office indefinitely and
’Hlm legislation would be a law. Even with all his power and with.all his desire
mat a stop to the craze for the use of the chlorinated hydro~carbon pesticides
organic phOSphates that have proven so dangerous to our birds and wild-life
. shat have appeared in dangerous quantities in our foods « e ;‘ in this he has
*e3n stopped and forces far greater and with far more wressure ,‘t f? Tab stabbed

I am not saying that Sec. Flemming would lOt be moved to

J I
. v i w _ ,. i , ‘. ~ - . , , W , . , . ,. ,‘ _. ,. , .H - :1‘ - , 1' ' t. .
.asen seer. n,. _, 1 that we have a zero tolezanoe lor . i; - ..§ out

a.

i 9 I ,1 _ .1 3 . . ,.. Ml .. 1 .,.. .. . .. L.

0 thl' .1. {Jatﬁl , , ' C’LJIUJ ad”: L‘L.’ C; (1912- t’ butt-,1 ‘ . . .m. .{ldv 12“:
1

v . 7 9,. .N. rm. u. ,r I. . a I , -. ~ ,n._ - I... ‘ |. f - . If... 3 ~. I- ,5.“ _.-.‘v ‘x‘ no. .7 . . my. ,. ,y i.
.-.1.' ”10362;! gamer than MEL; 1”: | And (3.0111 I. I 1 11.3,; i :3- .L. all" Lille: {TIOI‘IFJXIL i..-
~»w;eal homers hvdlﬂﬂ‘o Wield .ne same power over the Mmue of health it

an...“ ' ,.,,. . r .4.“ I ‘ +1 ,. , ,, . , ,
bun .t oratory animate Bill exec became law.

.

‘With all of this in mind I some to you humbly

.J Iormer conviction that 83570 would help the animals?

‘NTTgienIeti sis .l :iirl; or 3;? ;'/ ; sixijjt gig lj@:Lﬁi3Vgg §;g,.' ' “ ‘ "
~R as I did and 1 ; out boldly aga?rﬁt

, 1. "'“\“2 ‘1': '3': z“-
‘ , » 3,» at ill .'.‘

u

‘ I I .. WI“...

 

 




I
.. .
«Q

{1

my of
*;%d

1‘!

”2'!

.1. ,

the
to bi
the
\ r r

In
L

at
I.
(3
g

.1
,_ ‘, ‘9 1.. ,
‘A1 a "m

11 S
e

‘
h
up

E“,
1».

ms

£3

10
”:3 1}”

£1
.4‘ 3

4.4.1..

1

_ 57.:
W’ n
\
VL

C 021 S C
'3
J
L":
\4

«- 3'

- ,
I
I
J L5 "
ii: {3 3.
I»;

r n'med co-
'Y\‘) \‘y
L
C? r

r,

01
.k‘

1 f,‘
A \J
l t

L)
L

Q 1
‘3

3"
)3
‘
‘5:
F
7.

x

."
\I

u

v » V‘

I j 4

y .
- :11

OPS

O

T...»

1'\ j’t'x r
V'a‘» .

v v u w. ..v.>;.-w

,,_.‘ 3‘, o n

”.1 non "J‘mu‘v‘xu

'l .
mu). i
.r . ”A ,v u- awmv _

«.- rxm-uu-n-v. gamma-u. sum

'7.

 




311111111111 13, 1960 ~

Miss 111111.111: Fitswangh, Prssidmt . ‘
Illinsis Citis 1.111.111.1119 1111.113. Wsli‘srs Lsssss
-_ 622i130s‘bh 113111111}: .vsn‘ss . 1 ' ‘ . . _

. (111111.311 3?,1 1.111111% '

111.11 Miss 11111111111111.

Thas1s y 11 £1111 .1111: i131: 1111 .1 (1111.11 sf 11111 111111111111 11116111111113 and “a stats»
sent farms 11 11111111111111 111' tins Gemittss hams in his srdimms, has 11111 tried

1‘ IT m haV'ﬁ may»? leﬂfnr thGﬁﬁ 131‘ i110 illﬁp’VL-t this Psoﬁrda at 1111331957 Hall? l1;

111111 111111111 1.11.... ths 1111111113 1:9 11m 111'? shs 11111 111.111 ass 11.111 .1113 sttsnsish firms: '
tbs stisismw 11.11.1111111... .1". 13:11 11st 1:111. ism 111.111.111.113 1111111111 1.1.1111 1111s sassy likely
ts s‘svs‘ 11 1111111111 13511111111 11:: 1111011111111111 1.113113111111131 111111111113, 1.11: 1111521:- .1. have
sass 2.11s 1111u11111‘: 1.1 Use: 1.11.11. “913.1111 99999311 11111 110.11 will ssts that idhsss is sons
- in 111111 (31111111111 111...... ‘ Tho 61111131111 bi 11111 111.1. 11111:. The 091111111110 sssinsms
. 11131111111111.1111; 1111.111. 1.1111111. Is 1.13 9.. sm 111-1111 surpass sf procsrsssnt. 111111111
ths (”11113111111 ‘1: 1.“... 1.11391 51.1.1131 1111411111 scientist is iisssssd by ths narcissist? sf

. 111111.11,1c1m~11111. 111111 swims 11:11:! 11111111. 1111s 11;: ts the. 11.1.1111 previs-.-sns 111‘ {.1119

.. bill!- if? 79.111 risks ts 31.111111 11111 licenss... "

, Iss1 shits 1.1111111.- 11‘011 1.111 111111119 111111 11:1: 11:11:11 1311111er11111 0f Heal Education and .
slfsrs 111111.11 1....”- 11111111115 1111.1 511.111 111111 111i 111111111 "ts some {39111111311 sow 1111111131 ~ ,

1 . 11111: 11111111111. is (11111111 1.111111 1119111111113.“ - 11111111 191 1." 111.1111 .11....111111111 is cslculstsd I7:

is 111111211 ~11s1v 13.111 11111111 11 113.111 111113.1111111 #1111111 1311 1.11. 1:11. 1111111191111. 1111-51- ii“. .115 s .
grﬁsvxnm 1111111111 '11.) 111111111111 :10 13111111191111 1.3.1. ..t_ 11311111. 11.3111 01111011111111,” finally cases I

to Ira-sip 1.1913011111111131 11115111111151. 111111311 1311113111. .336 11.113311.

.111th {3110111111 11113 vows ths 1111.131 Fassbiissn .1111111 .1111 b2 the 11111111111111»

of 111111 1111491011111 1111111111 in “11111111111011, 11119 I 111115. .111. the} 12l1sst1 1111113... 38 is humane ' ‘ I

,. and honorable-.1 his his marpose {31:1 help. M135)? 1.101111 11211111393... ‘1}1'133’ £36 yam “WTTTT

" 911°: .bil]. ts 1111111 111.1111 M? legislatiss 1.1.11.1. {111111.119 ordimvzcs? is you my,

" “the 1111;111:111 society £131.11 111113.611}. ﬁssssmh is 13011 .1111 511111.50 ordinance and .-
aguinst tbs Caspar bill. ‘ . .

, hamster 60111381198 bill is that based as shy 111110111“ 1111 .1111 enact in our .. '_
country it is bases: sh 1811s British 111: 61‘ 3.875 shin}: 21115 class so such so must

1111111111 in English laborstsriss. I ham visitsd many lshorssssiss both in the -
chantry .1111} in England. IT 11:11:11 the British 1111: is its 1111111 in the world as this

You mention that you 11.111 ms ts ms! tbs Caspar bill mm but do not ’ ,

‘ mention hm. I 111111113 bs happy 9° WW 39°91? 3993893993903” and 190k fwd to

{ hearing ﬁres you;

9 ' 31111111111111 f

 




4

MRS. M._ D. RAVENSCROFT

 

Honorary President

Telephone NOrmal 7-0088

 

 

MRS. JOSEPH BRENNEMANN
Honorary Vice President

MISS MILDRED FlTZ-HUGH
President

MISS ALLA E. STADNICK
First Vice President

MRS. FRANCIS PERRY
Second Vice President

 

MRS. ALBERT MUNCH
Third Vice President

FAmETthU

.._ _ ' :- - l
, __ JJ_ .
e. .-.....‘ " .-' ‘-.':. *.... .
, _ - __'r 4

 

 

ANIMAL REFUGE

6224 SOUTH WABASH AVE., CHICAGO 37, ILL.

BOYLE AND FRIEDMAN

Counsel Affiliated with Chicago and Cook County Federation of Womens Organizations

Mrs.;Madeleine Bemelmans
Mrs. Christine Stevens,

Society for pndmedtﬁmateﬂtive Legislation

Dear Ladies,

MR. ALLEN A. GLISCH
Manager

MRS. FRANCIS J. FINERON
Office Manager

MR. CHARLES WAIGAND
Humane Officer

MR. ROY PATNODE
Dispatcher

MRS. HARRY S. STOFFELS
Secretary

MR. FRED L. CHURCH
Treasurer

MR. JACOB AUER
Auditor

I am glad you sent me your notice about your bill not being withdrawn
as I had quoted Mr. Richard's statement on its withdrawal in our Oct. Bulletin,
Fortunately I was able to reachithe printer and make the change in time.

I am enclosing a COpy of our Chicago ordinance regarding regulations
on care of pound animals and also a statement from a woman serving on the
Committee to supervise pound animals in Chicago. Our experience here is why WW
can't support your bill. We believe as it stands it wauld be as ineffective
as our Chicago ordinance. Both depend on bodies basically medical to supervise
a medical project— or police themselves. I keep thinking, suppose your bill

passed and we sent in a complaint
Welfare regarding conditions in a

to the Dept.

of Health Education and
Chicago laboratory. In our Opinion exactly

nothing would change because we are sure this Dept. would refer our complaint
to some Chicago doctor- probably one engaged in Research himself.

I will continue to hOpe that you will amend your bill so that we too

can work for it.

Sincerely yo

M M W] H's-MA w

Mildred Fitz-Hugh

MRS. ROGER BRONSON

MR. FRED L. CHURCH

MRS. EDWARD J. CREMERIUS
MISS MILDRED FlTZ-HUGH

MRS. HANS JOHNSON
MRS. OWEN B. JONES
MRS. ROSE KOSTLEVY
MR. GEORGE T. MARTIN

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

MRS. ALBERT MUNCH
MRS. WESLEY NEWBERG
MRS. BARRY NOLAN
MRS. FRANCIS PERRY

MISS VIVIAN PORCH
MRS. LESTER ROHRER
MISS PHYLLIS SMETANA
MISS ALLA E. STADNICK
MRS. HARRY S. STOFFELS

 




k;
- .
1‘ 'K -. 3.;
x a.‘ u, ’,
. 6‘}; 2;? ,‘7 'L, '
I 4 .a E?" at it.
a
.
i

)7 . g; z. 1 7. - L , 1,; 15" > i .5'.‘ v) f
RSJJ. D. RAVENSCROFT i: f" .- . d. egg-MkéiLLEN A. GLISCH
I, I Y)“ J: “l“ '. . ' , I ‘ ’ .4 1 : T , ;r - . I"- I :‘ ' V. ‘ i. r ‘ T. ' T: I :5: E..- VI,
.1 ' .Honorary Presndenf ar-rmmw M#_-===__ ;. . 5’ 35“:er Manager

r ‘ Ii’ 9}; .” f, ' h ’ . ~ I r ' 2'
1 “ MRS. JOSEPH BRENNEMANN ‘84 Eiiéﬁﬂllﬂﬂ' . LEAGU -. . '2 MRS. FRANCIS J. FINERON

I
1‘ __ L,

Honorary Vice Presidenf Office Manager

MISS MILDRED FlTZ-HUGH
Presidenf

MR. CHARLES WAIGAND
Humane Officer

'5 in .1‘ -

. ; 3

a :1

-- . y"

f

—- ___.’——-——— '

 

 

..\ ' —-

MISS ALLA E. STADNICK
‘Firsf Vice Presidenf

MR. ROY PATNODE
D ispafcher

 

< ‘ _...
_ _.\, 4%
.

 

 

—. ‘55-” " ~11 It“ i l ‘ ‘ .. t I _ ‘ -1 ,l 4 . f‘? - T .
MRS. FRANCIS PERRY 1—1.“; ‘ 3 \‘ _ W13... . ~ .- MRS. HARRY s. STOFFELS
Second Vice Presidenf “- -'~"“"‘“i—N' '. "r’l‘ ' ' g...“ 7‘ ‘ ' " . " w ' ' _ Secrefory

MRS. ALBERT MUNCH "‘ ‘ MR. FRED L. CHURCH
Third Vice Presidenf ANIMAL REFUGE

6224 SOUTH WABASH AVE., CHICAGO 37, ILL.

BOYLE AND FRIEDMAN MR. JACOB AUER
Counsel . Affiliafed wifh Chicago and Cook Counfy Federafion of Womens Organizafions Audifor

Treasurer

Society for Protective Animal Legislation
New York City

Dear sirs- or "ladies"

Regardin your laboratory hillf'when members have approached us about it
‘we have ha to commit ourselves and so it seems only fair to write you
direct.

we do not like to criticise the efforts of any group to reduce animal
suffering. Moreover, we have felt your organization was doing a good
and important Job in promoting animal legislation. But we feel that your
bill to protect laboratory animals would prove totally ineffective and
therefore cannot accept your statements concerning its value.

‘We believe the weakness of your bill is due to your efforts to produce
something that would draw a minimum of Opposition. The medical lobby
might well welcome it since it would go far to lull the public's fear
that all is not well in animal research laboratories. The address of
JMrs. Steven's fatherzmade at a meeting in 52 of the~Eederation of

American Societies for Experimental Biology, was in itself a sweeping
indictment of some of the very men who will undoubtedly be the judges as
to whhther or not the intent of your bill is carried out.

You are probabry familiar with the terms of our Arvey ordinance and the
amendment passed in 45 since your bill reads much the same only it is
weaker. Our heart breaking experience in.watdhing the utter failure
of humane clauses in this ordinance because they are ignored by medical
men who are their own Judges, taught us a lesson we will never forget.

Sincerely yours

ILLINOIS CITIZENS ANIMAL WELFARE LEAGUE

June 20-60

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

MRS. ROGER BRONSON MRS. HANS JOHNSON MRS. ALBERT MUNCH MISS VIVIAN PORCH
MR. FRED L. CHURCH MRS. OWEN B. JONES MRS. WESLEY NEWBERG MRS. LESTER ROHRER
MRS. EDWARD J. CREMERIUS MRS. ROSE KOSTLEVY MRS. BARRY NOLAN MISS PHYLLIS SMETANA
MISS MILDRED FlTZ-HUGH MR. GEORGE T. MARTIN MRS. FRANCIS PERRY MISS ALLA E. STADNICK

MRS. HARRY S. STOFFELS

 




1 ‘ September in,» 1960

3113301111 Sorjes:

“-II900 Lamont St. N} W.-

8.811111911312131 103 D. C. l

‘" Dear figs SnrjeS¢3

: ‘ , 3 . , P1SSSS forgive LhL dSlSL in rapl 1n *Lo VL1S kind

lSLLSS‘01 AISSSL I7Lh.‘ 310‘1 nmSS SL home, my daughLSr‘s Wedding ‘

‘fgand S nuSS SS1. SSSSondSncS Sn Lh GSSSSS bill have put SS far behind
and I‘m juSL Leg. 111 SS'LO CSLSS SQ. ‘

- . . TS SS1V“1_¢S,S;QSLSSLSSLS SSSLlSn S applies *0
101701111an11101331330113 Trout; 3S 511111131138 3138.11515, 30 1L :LS
,nSL LOSS Lle L3 SSVSKS +LSILSSSL SS 1S L111 providSS fSS Lain;
"with Sn? 1SuSL1LSS¢21Llnr‘SSSS‘WLSF11”‘Such graaﬁﬁgy CQRSPLSS 13
mSLiTiSé ST S” dPPTLTVCTOJ S? Satw in SSLuSl gave nmSanSpSSSLSd
TSLSSS LSSlSu.3 TnS liCLRESES, wh3LSS1“ LS SSS? 3n S SSVS SnmSnL
C'labOPSLOPF OI 01S SL39L TLCGSVTT‘JSSL 1LS33undS Trun aﬂvfflmant,
‘cSn thL LLSSL liSSSSS LS W0“? ““STJAQGd SS SSVSKSS Ly ordﬂm S1 }
LEL SSS? LSLV. ‘ ’ . W‘S . . . M 33 . . .

. j 3 I , _ AS fdr :SSHS aueSL1", iTﬁ L LSS SSSSSSSSSSL Sf LhS
ALL, I was SSaC Lo nSLS ya S Smnnnd LSSSSLLS; far I LeliSve that
insnecLSSS SSSSSSSnLin” SSS Laderal LSSSSnmSnL will be b1"
far LSS SSSL S1MISSLLVS SS can Lessioly SSLS I undSrSLSnS hat
the larSS humane SOCTLTTCS SS1L L; “S S ~1LL 013Ln 1111 SS in‘
t4@ SumSS" 111161L11 111'.Sn1 nS SSSLL LW€L  wi1l make LL13 reguest.
-_ I have SSS SPWiSuS SSSS1 Vatlwm SS LS SLSTSm 01 LLLiS request: you will
’3SSSS11, LSSL Suztnw LhS LhSSSnyeSrulonS b attla for humane Slaughter,3
the SDSSSSSSS SSSL “131“ to drSS1S LSSLS fro any effScLive ’
proposal (thare were Several ﬂimeFE L Sf ObqurﬂilLS SSSSSSSS)
and turn it 3nLS S ”SLUCW’" H11 LSSLSSSS; They did Luis repeaLSdly
Iby OflelLﬂp Smendments LS Semove SSS Sfxeetive SSctionS and Simcly
leave Lhm AdViSQTF 'LSLmiLLSS mSSS u; S? SSSSSSSSLSvaes  05 Law
iffeSSSL groupS invoSde. 'YSu*1l 111S11 LhSL in 1955 the Sanate

:WHLGtuallprs SS S ”SLSSV" b111,,buL. SSS Hausa, fortunat 1y, did

not SSL Sn 3L. SSXL yeSS, LLS WSSSS»SSSSLS S good bi_1 l Lu.L only

9“ afLSr'S'LrSSSndSuS fingt SSSLSS1 S SLuéy bill Swain. Then WhQHL

it gSLﬂ back LS LSS LSSSLS, 316 SGSSLS ComxiLLee again reporLed
 ouL a "Study" bill and only Lnroagh LLS‘LSSL stupenﬂouﬁ effort
' did SSSSLQS ﬁvmphrev Suﬁ LhS other fine Sagporters of a real bill

"‘manag; S LS SSLSSL LhS CommiLLvee' b11 1 Sn LBS F100? of he SénSLe and _

'3pSSs SS effSSLive humSnS3SlSubh Sr LL11.

“ I go OVSS S11 1111 hlSGOP" Lo emphaSizS why .
Advisorw Cnmm1LLeS  proviSiSnS in S humSnS bill make me nervous.3
For it was this Sne UTOViSiOH LhSL Obnonaﬂta of LhS bill always -
[Gama back >L~S and honed 0 p831 Without any prov1sion for enfarcamSnL.I'

. ' However, we could act hSpS Lo pSBs Snv bill resulatu
inS animal experimentation wiLhouL any dhange 1n the langu uaSe 110m:

'iI'IILhS LimS Sf inLroducLi on L‘S: pagsahe.‘ Le will just Lava  Lo f1rnL

 




t3 get an effective measure, howév3r, it may be phraséd.

» It is a shame tkaat the Humane Society at the United
.States has 31333 the N3t13331 Ant1~V1visedtion Society and th3
National Societ7 for M331331 Research in th Oattlé against th3 __
b111. All t33 3‘3xnerts 3T3 W5311 33rv~ th3tf Th3r3 is no H333 to try
to deg tray 3 b111 if the intentio 13 s1mnlv-Lo 1mprov3 13 36 .
make honestlv canc3ived changes in the 13n33333. The animals are
the 0333 whb W111 Suff3r 1T thw 3111 13 not W33131. »

RevarJinw 133 3331~v131333313n 3331333 3 pos‘t1nn
33 th« “33331 2333 mentiOnx than 330313 3111 thin? 3:3333 13 no
1333“: any 3333 to wo333 1f 333 033333 b111 13 333333.3313 13
the very crux of th3 cifferen 3tween 331331 3rnt3ctive work
333 3331~V1v13331 33 30b-V1tV. lThe 33b1mviv13uct13n V133 TWTarS
to b3 that t33 33333 thiwa3 333 13 133313333133 333 th3 33r3 _"
{31°03 31a 6:” ’1103' 10:311. 133 1331’; T33: 11: 3.31 13.~ T‘IJ VTMT 13 “33’” {31:33
‘millibns 3: 3113 13 ' 333 11~owavgr 33 3333 3313 and th3r 33311t 3333
:81333 the 333 kc autluviv133331t3 3333333 13333 133 33mb333 3
animals 3331 1n laoorat3°133 13 3vorv‘p33t of 81 war13 333 3113
r33k3133.; Th3 3n31~71313331133 33333331 333 £31133 331311" 13
Uravent 33:3 333 333' 331M31“ TrinT' 3‘3 1“ W3 31,: 3133133331» ,
'ments, 3333 31'3313h 313 333: mainfila Y3L 113 ’3T3 31" T1r3nt33y
to t311 330313 who 33nt 33 nwﬁvTT3 13 :31 333133? 33 a;111«1 333
.of 1&333 331331 (a 3 in fhs'Cacﬁer b1113 thau Th13_%111133 311 33
:deT‘ated 33 thﬁv 333 3:“33 T33 HUT? yCaﬂu, 333L131a auﬁ 33333313
73ven 3.33 T33133 133,1nT $13 333311? :13 1333 313T133, »Lnuv T333
that if 3333 3T.‘ha 13333“3 «13 .331 3333133' 3 1333 3331133133
lStG {WWT,'3' 1111.3313‘31 'TT 11w3{"03“wwﬂ’3111 133 3311“ :33, 1333 3+:1303
3333333 3133T 33T‘T13 guﬁtmjvﬁ T33113 3 T131d.' T3 33.3313'13.
bht3 3331 3333111.1 U? 31TTT1‘TT, "11133331. nu T 33‘1333 33 333‘ ;«
:3ny333 ~33 had 3ver 3131t36 33y 13b333133 3 3113 1311113 Sharm- g_
it; 11.13 33111 LT3"31"T3T‘313 3 T1331 39‘13231013rf 3333313133.
t o th3 h33333 31333h131 3111 33 313* 1T 3tﬁ 313 T1,333T33 333133
it 333113313 335 331-3333 33 3313313 T“ 3/ 133$1t3 33'133 13333» _
33333133, :33 3313313 31M3:1§ 33 thr 333T.1hu7 333 vanuro : 5”' ‘

~1 $.3..11y_3»”,ﬁfﬁh¢”31 11T 1L131, ‘CVTI T33$Td5“
3 rvally 1TT33113 ; wggTrszTI ' ‘ 13131313ry 3313313 ‘1'
Enmland, $333 3? ‘5,1~d*rg 31 13333333 333 33333 3313 133 .
_ which 337 be:13333hqu 35 g7;' 333 1“” h‘”ﬁ .51339 WPTTﬁTh
‘TlaWQ Buy Wha t d0~th$ J.I'”3. d: g?“ 1‘0? Da ”“0;
war” ‘3333113331 33-6 their 3333 T3333 33 3333 33 ThT"‘ Thffb

‘18 no 3333f 1133 T01 1333333333 331331 333 3333 3333 33131 3333 d31$1§V395

or do €333 prefer t3 33333313333 33313‘3 1T3313133 313113 3 3111
design3d to nrcbrct 1313331333 331331?‘g T3T3r33335317,t33 latt3r
is the 0313.  It 131tr3T13 3331333h th133133 3h33ld havc an :
influence, and I 33331 h3§>3 13’311 331 With 3313133 and  1333111§3nt

a person 33 333 :3ir3 When You 3333 rwallv t3333ht the oroblem throu3hcfif1ﬂﬂ’

36 must help the 31111333 .31pom m1111333 of 3313313 confined 33
labcratoriaa and 3333rﬁnj 133m 13 h33333 3v3rT day of tin y3ar.

‘ — Best wishes,

:AgSiﬂﬁﬁfély,‘

 




IQUG Lamont St., N.W.
Washington 10, D.C.
August 17, 1980

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I have read S. 3570, To provide for the humane
Treatment of Animals used in experiment and tests
by recipients of grants from the United States, etc.
and I am inclined to agree with the Humane Society
of the United States that it would be better if,
instead of having authorized representatives of the
Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare (which
presumably means emplgyges of that Department)
given access to the animals and to the premises and
books and records, etc., it would be better to have
outsiders do this. We-know from the way the dogs
have been kept in the Department of Agriculture in
such a very cruel manner, that We cannot rely on
those who are employees of the same organization,
i.e., civil service employees,to "police" the
treatment of the animals. I think the qualified
employees of the Government could, on second thought,
be given the duty of seeing that these animals
are prOperly used and humanely treated, but the
large humane organizations, like the humane Society
of the United States and/or the American Humane
Ass0ciation, should have the right to inspect the
treatment which the animals receive.

In Section 6 isn't something more than "public
notice" necessary in case of noncompliance, such as
revocation of the grant? It seems to me that the
present bill leaves something to be desired.

Sincerely yours,

(Egoﬁacex,/gt??¢€¢/

 




7 )[wut a” 2'24.
0"qu7‘ 62.x /£L [2:71, V 1 be bérgj Aj’é’mf: “LA—ﬂ (Ema; w
W S. <2 3 SW 7, ‘ a : "
Z/jév’LQI-E'Z‘J‘LM" 167*?1'Lé’l‘: Z: $2.

,2 J ., ’ A . j) ‘ 4 , a ‘7 a v ‘ 1/ w
.. WWW 1;: £0 W22; W 11%. ~ 7* ,. W; W. z c: r

L-

7 I
I‘S

-

.4 -" a ., , ‘ ' ,2 " xﬂ~
‘1ﬁW/ ZZZ, /é WL’W - 4 5,26% M361) fed/Z / ,Mbbc‘atw‘z/ 2:41, 071/10") "

Wit ﬁm’j MAL?- WILL/{L ,Acgw' 746/6 Adi. "é“,t‘,» (35,ng 7 ﬂ/Li" 4.“ C be“.
.9 ._ , g? , ’ g ,. ,A ‘.
f4?) /{¢Z"Zr&4 «gMezA.(MLL {Sew /c,a~o€ a wag, /M/ WW6”; a, (EmbaLg
* a 5? ,..-- If, 4, I A ”.3 .
MWCW’L ,. Cjéia/él xvi/5’ (’3 WE h L 48:. eats/(d, 39w Cw/éﬂQf/ﬁ

 




SVpVemSVV I25 TQSO

VVVG Jobenhinw_3. SVVVVV
VSVaxh KS iswleVVVu
SVVVSVHV, CV3ifSVn

IDVVV VV51 S5

%_ ~‘*.v Va“~; , . lViﬁ» VS Van? thSV
1V VV13V ;,Viire .sg11~ V“Q *51 v ‘ S11 1hVS plans TSP
:V QV21JWE* -‘.V;i ‘1., 11:: V~:m7 VSVV1 ViaanVV
TS11 SVV .55 '.m4 . W g1‘”1£f.3??@11;fl’fthﬁfa

3"

QSVVVSS NV 8; 1simu'1nav VOH
:3, 1,. 5111:. .1:V 1313’ 131% ‘ “ V1f11..x'1<; 11133311311135?
”V-. My S; C‘ﬂu TS V1 1VS1S1V3 ‘ *‘VllT VEST VTV
SS V VVVVVVlmaV SSS,VVS SS10313VV fVV hVP VVV

VSSiSiSS1 3V1 SSVVVV SSVVVll. d0 SSVVT J01 VVGW
VVVV VLWuSSVMJS VVV 331% V SVSVlVV 1V thmzi vVSVViVVhtVtVGna
dei LagiglVVi KTﬂﬁ WTXUV. NVVV-VS.VVVVothly
VVVVV Vyiamim ama.3 x! V: wig S1gsa 5V V in 1VCVVVVVVV
4 .5 .. 313:7; 3,511,114 V55» 31*, I ;:,;11$p&}€3t6d
VVVVSVTSS “:1 piﬁ V;Enx‘“1 Vﬁf~7ﬁ12'f 3VVSIV*SVV1V3 I
a 1n VSTS,,-;w 1 (2" ‘:21# f1T11SV11 uy firVthVnS
Vt a k1 4* : ,VV‘I; 2:": 1““ $1VV3 3n SVVVSU1VV
V1 1.11".)123 V £13.16: “:3 03351331
b:::3!f.i§5;aﬁ..1317: 1.11 3:; .‘ V] ”151:3 $313? 17131.11; thaw.

UT h'VV'VSV Sn: can .L=Vi1;: VV 1VnV V VVV Shief

«:4...

1:11" VVVVSP V3111 CVVVVVV-o’ut 1:121“ .a“ .- 11.1115: SUSS: to 1:113"
h11VVSS SSS SVSVLV SL14VVg Z M 1 V g; . 1VbSVVVSry in
Londmn VhV” uhnmcwa LVTT umst V VSVVS . f’ "ﬁhVE the InSchtSr

SM
SSS VSVTVSS VHS VVV 1Sschu1u5 Vha VS1VV1 ” , VHS E sVV'hoV
VPVVV] JHVVSVVS ShVSV mam VVV Vnd*hmw 12¢:Vnimal
rSom pV1V.Vnu1 VV.1 VS VVVV VSVV VVVV . V ‘1 ‘ WUWVS
VVSV VVVVSSVVVV1 IV VSSTS be S VVVVVH S» D? V: V1 jSSV
IVVLVIVV 0V VL1V1 1V SS dTVWQEVuQL .gr: ST 131V 15 hV= SS
VIVVVlV SVV iitV V 1VSV1V VnV S.

La tS1Vf1VVV SVVVQV raSh SfVSSV 11VVVVV Van VVVVVV
"WhVn Vn VXV TMJQRLQP mugt Sat inflict 9V3m VVGSSV Sham
”VVVVSVVVV” ”de VSS VmOSmt and SVVVViSn Esta Se-SVcided
VVV ViviVVVSVQV himSVlfwwell VhVV pVSVSGVTSS cVn~SnS chl that?
ABVolutely nSnV.” I would.VgrmV Vth ygmf SVVVSmVnt, but.it
1V -VSV b.801 Vt“ pTSViSiOHS SS VVS GSOVVS bill 9 Tha
GSSVVV 1111 V30 iciV- VhVV the S-VVVVVVV ST Health, VSuVVViSn
Vnﬁ HelerV VVV SiVV pp WVJV Sd’ ﬂfmjﬁctvﬂldﬂ 330V VS VVVVVimSnV
if hV finda VSVV it 18 not in VSvﬂiﬁx with VSV humVnV proviaions
0f the 3111Q ThV mpwrim mSnVVV doe as mat TVVS SSS daciaiom:
thS SVVVV VV» SOVV. Th1s ~VSVV1VVVV1V, furtharﬂora, holSs

 




3,ﬁ§

m

S7

33%

S licenSS from the “SSS tar3r, SSS 33 SS; SSS w SSS 13SS SS SS
the humana‘ﬁfOViﬁiOnS Sf SSS S311, h3S-130SSSS SSS SS
SS revode. This S0333 SS 3 SSS3 SSSi :S mﬁb"“ wqgcp SS~33
prev St hiS adenSSmSSt, SSSlﬁSSt SS.3S3 SSSSSl 30 Gufﬁalug
and receiﬁt S” *SVSS"SSSS'3SSSSS ”:3 7;. 3 33,.wn.hS~SSSSﬁﬂw 3
. ' (ax *’ " f” {w .3. it» m... A773
57:? garb»

. Wm ,3b33. £3. &
V’Idgig 7 7W31WM3'

SMSSWWW-V 7 ,3 3‘1 3S SrSSS S.S» SSS.? SS SSS“

.qrw

._ . 73.3 .3 1:2; *
raaoiv3.q SSSSE SSSSSS 33 3375\3 33 3S SSJSSLS W’” SSSSSMS’“*VW,g,JS

»~NSH£ SSS? 37%? SS? Sgoyitw S? SSSSSiSSntSl SS3SS1 SSS SS
SSSSSSSSS by fS Sewal 3SS.. $3SSS~SSS3 SS3SS3 Sﬂmfimﬁﬁﬁﬁl .7
tSkS7WlSC7 @iﬁhﬁf-iﬂIgQVGWﬁmamt ISSSS tSriSS SSSS 3SSS3SSS3SSS"
SSSS SSSS SS SSSSSS erﬁ SSS SSSSSSSSS S, SSSS S3SS3S S313 ES
SSOSSSSSS if SSS GSSSSS733§L 3S SnSSSSS

7 ‘ma‘ewnclwﬁS, 3 SSSSSSSSSS Sm fer dﬁmm}@ 33 33Sv33
S3 S 7:77:77 33331577333 Sni‘imSE. 2S. 333'“:S323133.3563‘3.ff$ ‘7) ‘ 3433333; 73372333331333.3737,
1331 there 3S VSSF.33333<‘3S SS3S 3 S S SSSS 3S SS ﬁﬁﬂS
SS ﬁhSti SSSS SS SSS SS 33 SS S333.S 3‘SS "' '
SSS SSSS033V' 3S SS SSSSin SSSSSM it S
SSSS “SS" SM01S3S ﬁf'gﬂffwﬂ’nw SSS ﬂﬁiﬂﬁ‘n33.3ﬁmwlu SSSSSSSSS7
SS SS¥SSWS 3S lhbSSSSSS SS SSSSSMSS S SS“ CﬁmﬂLSgg TSS SSSSSW

3:; ', "' - . , 3 3. ,. ""9 .3 a .317" .3,“ ~
S. 31 S3 33 SS SSSSS 7&3SUSM3S .S SSSSS 33 SSSSSSS3SS

‘3‘
3.. £337 ' .3 . .. -,_ .37 *3 .. L-
SS: T . S33 7313» 33ﬁﬁﬁh 237‘ SwwS-7S7 3 - 3:3;3.-;;.. 33&3.332ﬁ333’3331

Q
.1

t

t 1" ‘ 4 V" ‘g " I a“ v..' an . 37 “I ' ‘3'.“ "T “
Q 2.3....“15‘3‘523 77%: (3:31.31 W? 533353 Wﬂ‘bed 3333* 333333” 7 7 r3. 193331 “3‘33 3‘"

;9&?n&33513 {SSS th&$.yﬂu SSSsﬁusznS'SSS SS..3

7 ‘ 7 V n, f‘r ‘ Q AA ' 7, § ' 9r,
537.3333‘3331753 7,4,1}, 3333 13.3331“; 33&3.33S;.Sl7.3 7333 3.373233 v: 3 333333
2; 37.333! 33:53:73 {3333773337th 35333333“: 3337?; 3333»; 37*; 1337731 3333.3

l
ru-
‘w

1SSS37' ﬂ33 SSS SSVS SympSthﬁ S333 i 333 SSSSSS

t SSS SHiSSlS ﬂaw Sf SSﬁing S1 S"; 7‘_f SSS S3333
thS zrtxer QS3SS3VXS SSSSS “;, 5;.*37;.7;_ 3 Will 1
tﬁ7ﬂnSWSr SSSN, * ' - w *

W». Y" ﬁ ~ "3'
SinSSS3SJﬁ

 




Mrs '05-] Seiphn HZSp
965N.oiHllsf nAe
Pas den a,C:iorlf

72 /k 4’an AJYZ~¢RJ
3H? “fa/MAE 7W vie/MW

\7sa‘5‘1316L—e
WWW/Mi 3—3714d

’{M M Wat t“ Eh \ ’ 657$” magi/ow "/17ij / M

Y17L’LZ $®7m %J/ Cap/(2 AWRMM A)?!“ and ”MAW 7AM wwﬁ ”Z;

”W ‘7’“ W”? C“ ”C“ 11 $4111?
3‘2, 1/711; 11* ., M 1; $1 ,ch
“Q a can 62-,-

A4w€ﬁn (3&44 / W fCCU ‘ W
in éﬁ‘*\ W *

77b. Amati/2 7‘4 WC“ fég“: M Wag Mai Wﬁaq‘
(WW/m T2: Maw-w 4»? m“ «125%,. 2%
gWﬁa C/bk/b/‘CC ”37+? w A“, ﬂaw/ma WW W42 m .
:lMcAngzx Cafe/v my ) 6'1. WWaw “5mg. “Mil/OWN“ ‘

x ’ ' 6L ”W‘gﬁom ”/WQ
2% ﬂ 1% zamzftm 4M M,

LMEV%,W i I )JM Wa£ W 2
‘ 1.311;.“ W “(W W’ﬂd fin/maﬁa W «m if»; “W“ Ca!)
VIM/574‘ Mam W4?) m v<7< VIMX, MMK Z:

 




(MAE. 3:) EMAA
MAMMUAA SA. SA

. Aoe oleSmoor AS, moiooowa 83%; MAWMAH. eleAswAAAm
MA. :, ASSESS ,SNAAépleA.
ebem Drag... AN; krﬂkwﬂﬁ. Wmogmwﬁ 95m» MRASMNSE... 3 \fxﬁSwSeSxmeA
2. V6; MwNﬂrg A. Mel? 522.99% Elooéen E MMp e8

3 «$4.3an AMMVNANVQl? \Neﬁ 9A); 3N}

geCpl.
\SAMLA. o2, eA Mg; «1pr EAlMoeS SSArMmos.
eloNMN. {Mix 7.3ng ele .33” -.M
MwlM\ $.30.) ;: 3;» Cf: PCXAAJVNI?
AAA/AXE...

\N MSAoS<HAYQ Myelf
. mrooes 51% AvoSl
LaNl QMNIQCN MQQMﬂI gemA\ \nﬂl RNNNEMMSE a}?

. .6? égg gr. QNAJmNroS Yea; NSC?)
Me? 3.3% HWVflCNNm QMrﬁ ii gxﬁuo ¢~W\A\o t

A.) look:
\YS... For A,
k??? ooemlws Sbﬁwaﬁfﬂ g no? Si AFNe. 7%oosv MowAexN:
ng:;1§ .NWUMMSléO: MN MAANAANM
$3»? fax»
ooeoﬂﬁs AMQSSS éSeﬁwNEoN NMxﬁp MQS A. A3 filoco?
8g §ArkleN A (lives “MASK AleASA/ A»

LAM/MW. 3 NF
{ASA/AU? §§& My) ammo/x; ﬂvlcwvrxlmrlrx & H311
n§§§& LNFNANGQC gggﬁﬁg e§§3k
v.Q

\vaSeN Axemom§ owonMNMWAAAA
5%st alMo
Mﬂamel MU. <3: go?“

\Nlﬁg 3.

{MARX ’0 M

JEEP “631%...

MeAAJAAl SEAN
Mes. ﬁe...“ m AMEN;

 




June “12,2 1220

.VD222 ﬁrL. Sp2L22

Th2 amnvw-LIII 23570, 502 Lh2 2u22n2 LrwaLﬂﬁpL of
LLLLL'LMLLLI 22 2212 12 20121122 2n Lh2 Pithﬂ “Luelty to
221221 20L 22 1876, 2222b 22 In 2ff22L in wnﬂland 2L the
~prewInL L212. . haw» MILL Lh2 ”caper bI3l my fulI mupLOHL
from L22 ouL22L, L20 2222 I h2v221L2d many laﬁoratoriea

L122 22 22L; 3? 2; <3 .22 gnu. 12,221 2m 222222 231211: I" 22272 22222 ' _
I L392 LILL L22 12LI22V,& L12 2ff22Livé LoLh_In prevenLimg
222 222 I 2L 222 21122; 222222222~‘22222 222 L22 common In ’
Im222222 12222222 I22 222‘21 I2 W?TVQ*LIIQ 2C222L12L2 Tram
p2M 22%, I amnel CWUOPIWCTImu 2 22 2,222 22d 222L'1921212L an
on 222,; 2 cf L:22 . 2212 "2L 1222*2 2212 22222 22122222ur2
LLLL ‘LHLUII I"“”‘1 L2 ”:AJI‘I2UL-2LCI 22222212; JHMI I:'=ICVP
Lh2L 'L‘22222222 L22 vggporL of 2vcyf‘22wa2mm TUMLRILIFI 23.

I02 LLVL *292 ‘1‘. I; I22222wy2d abduL Lh2 préviaions
Gf-LLL ww 222 61".21 3:3.ﬁL1»232222‘1L n2»22 222 LILj cmmuawaale
L2 LLu‘2222”22v“a 22‘ v‘f" ”2 fUlIV‘R‘fea 21th 302, 2022 net
”I22 LyIALLIve 222 r afﬁi I WILmrx 222221.. The 212forni2
12d“ CIDL‘K 1.31-‘JU‘MC It ”’1 ,4, ' 7i} ”I d‘ 1%“ 2253 (3L? SIIG’I’ in SILL”: L. 2816. Of
021 2W2 InILIm” ? 2: 231‘2222‘ “2 “ 2&2 2222202I22 2f pain ‘
d: 22* LITQIIJ :1 $3: ﬁ~2ﬂ2v“' 22L2 22L2 M22 L22 LWda
In LI‘IC 23‘1“-“ II. 2 ”if 1‘: : (LO‘LIlciI no” he pTGpGI‘lj,
LImIHILLm LVLu *2 “* Ry»:‘: w2p2222222 were ILIHdLﬂ Lo do
22, L 2222 ,““ 202i2 22L  P It awcLWch invtltuticns Lo make
222I12212 Lo LI22 22222I2L2 ALL awumwnt 22 cards 0f 211 22p221m2nt2
222I22222322 2222 22 22 2wI 2 '"L u222 £22 ”haL LXpGLImenLL,
20 LLLL an 122pectaw LOMIn LinLo 2 IabormLory in California '
.h22 20 22? of 222212“ 222 222 L222 2 ne'um LhL'anILLIL ha 2222,
h22 20 any of ”Levin“ 222LTII2 2222 @322 L0 the 222221 22 2222,

L 2223 i2 £01“232> L2 ”02 '0f 22L*32n~ 2L 211 2x02pL whether-
LLP 22322 are 1222 L In order. Th2 0002;; bill 22L2 up a deLaIled
232L2m 2? “Heard L2 92“,, 22122.22» 22 IL v0222h1 102 Lhe 2n2p20tor
20.3 {new wh2 LI12r the ewﬁemennts b22n nedformnd are in LQMpliance
tgwILh L22 pr ILclplos of L22 woL.I"b2*C212t 2:222 122 11622222 ' a
flabnwatcriea, 222r2 L22. oop21 2121 I 22n222 indlvidaal scI2nL22Ls.
T232 I2 222” LLLOPLHAL becauSL under LheﬂCaTIfernia law IL 13 '
222022 IL12 L0 2222522 2n Innividual 20122L32t"it Is necessaLy Lo
p20222~22 L2 22 Lntire InstituLIII, Each 227232nford ILIVILSILJ, ‘

‘ 2222222.u222r Lha Geoper bIlI Individuals are 222 nonsible for
~L22Ir 22I21212, 2nd inﬂlvidualgjffanﬂera can be iaealt with.

It 12 m22L unfair to comnawnTﬁﬁstate Department of II221Lh L0
L22 f2 soeral Wepartment of 222* ;h, duoation and 27f22w Th2
mecwwLary of 221th “d 22L12n and elfar h22 never been a
medI 021 2222 he 12 2 2ymmn 2nd 2 mémber 0:? the C2minet, and it
12 ju2L not 222152LI0 Lo Lay Lh2L he WOIld b2 dominated by

 




UciUntiUtU. The
mam? ocUUUionU;
0333 3&1 of thU

pPeUUn
most UM
Pp

”.3 ../p

(1 .g. . -
3"} 8 c 1‘33 '3.) a 3":
cm v31)?" 1‘3?

scientificepUUUUnUUl~
UUUUUUUU in which they maul
0333Uials UVUUwUUUU this unUo
fUUUU U3 the UUUUUU UUUUUUUU
foU the bUUUlUU. The 36 UUU U33
33333: UUUU3. 3.33133 03" the U.d3:z3i3333 MU»
UUUUUUUU UU3UUtiUt 0U arc
chUUUUd U3”” ﬂat; o3
UndV EUU that UU
11.1373! "31 1:31...."
3:313?- (33,"
E3U
3°3UU3

'1) 3:553 -

I“ fly/"3
‘9 I. :1-

U3

3331U3 :‘ ‘~ “” -..3.:. ,_o_31% 3-3;
(ﬁf'grtﬂﬁwxDYN-‘Ifiﬂm ”43% .

UU U UUUtU

MT'

'W3U’MUUUOVU3 33 nUU
M 3 ' 1 j.“

"1 .. f w‘ 3‘ 'v ." 1‘3 Hwy ‘9»- 3h, r”:
“if:{'¢..'(rt.~.1.4.51~1m . 3;.” (f:“'
1

-,3hU KUUU TUU‘
'3~t;.U331uUd :33 3 UUY 3

of 33U3 ﬁat 33 3331~UUU
an ~U3Unn11' ,- y
1.331; 13:33 12'} '~.£-}}"1 ”"3“; f. . ' ‘7: 3‘3» ”‘31?

131.132?

7""
1
1

3 r». .3...
.3 3-3 1" 3 3.: 333 1‘ U

333337353331 ‘53
UWUJ. 351UE1

hU

1'13. 0 L'

”1:, a" ""1" ' '

LﬂUh'

33W:

x “1'3?“ X?” '2'?” ,' 1'

{.333 U) .3133 U m

' {u- H.»

“ y, . ‘_ "I

3_"..,f_“f.3;f3_-3,L

n- 6 1~ 1' "3 '7'}

{J0 " {3" [2.2.1 'x} ' ,1.- .33. 9' :

{gm 0 3"}.3:"‘!1"§.'3 ,. if: . y .

- f, . .. ~-.-..m . . ,1 7 y. 3‘ y . 31‘;

:10 iuzckk, -31.$,3a,3..3.. 7:-U. U

UUUUU it, 3 UUUU-

. v- a
L

thU
WU
u“‘3

(8.3.1.3131

Alla?“

5b

" it,
1.88”" ‘ . 3/?" 5:3.
4 v1.- Aoua : A..‘..-'

hUU
”331817 .
UUUthUt in UUU.UULl

UUUURUU UUUd‘by‘Uhe"UUd UnU “PH” fa.”-
IW UUUU StPOh”lV Uon
UblU to UKUUUiU

UUUU UUUUUUUUdUﬁimn
30h humUUU~
3:33:33 1211 ,

.‘J .
’u

3:11:
,

1 .y ,.\ ,,,. ‘3”

‘ u .3, . ‘7,.£.‘§1

MU

UU

.3

' V'Epuu \J‘
3 t?”“
833

“1"”?(ﬁ

333.3;
5" ~"‘C'* “‘ng
$2531...) 3333...}

.. ‘3‘

tn! '1. ;a- 4.1'

*3Ud.31~s
333Ud U33
VUd
UU- .
ed t0 LUU ﬂaws
Q’s} b'JL ‘

UUUUUU ‘
U‘ﬁémaatifﬁ .
:3Un of 539 CUUFUT @3115 “9 ~31

Mﬂf_ 1'

301’}

h

.3343

“ .2U3UIUtUUUEUU
3* ‘V‘V '

4.4 .3. .3.

hid "i" A: an"; “»:~ A“ M
UU: 3U33 I” 1U UUt

all?
33. 3: :3 (:3

fﬁﬂﬁ 3U
‘3'133 E;

f“ i"
'-J .3.

.. . .4- rt ’1 1w ‘ W
' :3. 3 '1" w: 'mim
1

‘AK! n

3‘! 1! :3 1M“- 3:3,;
31; 3.3 . .

£33133" "’
Ur -

C3 .3...

33 .13-
. 3-3-3... 3‘331’3’

$333..

3 ”1017'! “'1“st ""1" ~“_._;y.._': ' 7"... (:wwfs{ 3' “5331*,“

n m . 7
Warprsr‘ar’m 3*)? C." “' 43mm: '
«3» '1‘... v1.3 ..'.1..5 v-h-‘u-‘L “'3:

' 3‘ D I 1‘2 ..
.-.:... '1. m5 (3,. 0,-‘11— i '3" .; ‘31
3.“ . 331, 1.2.. . .3... 1....

'7 r3331; "{1}???” -‘ 1133

~ (3‘93” 437* {~41

‘ -1
'3 3r”; y; 1. ,3 21' 1'
13,-! . .- 1....

' '5 -' .7 ' '
a . {a} '. .. - ‘n- -

{3113M '

“r '3“;
agyyﬂ

D 4'" “3’
13:3} liah-m,

nmy navy} ‘1'; .y. fan

' 3 . .. ..
‘ .' 3'} C”: 3.1. 1;
. ‘1 '

"11":P‘3
L 4

an. 91

 




’7éb‘7knl71365m’tfwaw
fowﬂzm 6W1

vai 8' “’féo'
await—‘5' a“ (1%»va 33M“ ‘(fZJC—L. WORM
>7? * 571‘ UdL—r ”5% 1/4»,
Tm“ {WA @413; L335" 1/1. 3 L

455.51% 7M“: 5—- 0C (3 '~ ..
AX Cab” :¢(( 45“ W'va WJLzbv: AMQ/Loeqq

A39>0 mama?“ WW5 ﬁve”? WL’LZLL W did LL7o—«7A aEZ;
CLVL fWV‘ﬁ/(ﬂmw LVLWW (L M M Z0: Jﬁwﬂk/quk '
W a ﬁAJT Maj Mfﬂagﬁg/ Draw/d aft/LI MM? 479:4;

WWW, 42W Jf’ééwwﬁé wLL 27w
ﬁwﬂffw (. wﬁw arm/Z»; Mel. Lwﬂ aim/LAW / LLLA
t2 ' M Wet LwW— @deme a. 6" MP? 41AM CW»
*KMM dgi’ﬂf MW LL: 3963/sz {3/3 ﬁémfcfmmc‘wé/
(LL/(LL at L 1% CL». LCL aha XLTLmaLy/MMLLL LLLWLLL>5
ML L L / ’L / L
LLCL W (>ng LLLLL LLLL Mm,” a, on 44%ng ’ LL2r
W3» '5‘37Lo T $740601 7:12» TLKP/WLfLZLLQﬂLﬁ:
M06 VLLWL 0M AMJL CLAW @dmj
71% WLLJ'; C/ngI/n dWLé €3ij Wm W [Lad/‘2 +0wa .
LM/wtgwmnté L’ /wL~LLLcLLL\ , amt W LWIL‘ Lem MLL LLLL/LLL
71/% 731% Lap/Ff /L» oak/CLERK c/ 005% 33ka l/LLU m LLVKLLm
WWI/LL 7277 cm fun/Law 6» Rift???“ “Moot/Va z/‘C. /M%£%

0"ny L;( “Qua/.1

,1. a, ,. (w L . 3 , \ ,T \, \
73L MLLCM, M/LKLLTCLK $37 191:1. WOUCLJLILL 65¢pr, 2L {9’ M73"
(M) , ’

(KW/l/VW vi. “34,742

2:4. KKK/M434) j

 




v

.3 i H . v 8.. . .
. I x.
mfg T 3k

. Q89 (($436

gig“ xv/ng NEXW: @313)? \uxng ‘ .gdnmnif h§£v6 {67$ Vvimg

wry.

 




1°

1

,, H. )

" 1166. 366666166 3.; 3mm; ~__.~-j ~
965 6.; 691mm,} Mama,
* P86666116; Califﬁmia

.161 I‘k’ﬁ‘ sgams'

~ 366 I6:- MI“ 1.66663“ 61 July 5611. I666 6661336 66 . ' ~ .5
.. ,. . . 1 . _ » M mwmmt but , 1; 61‘: 666 mfnmtim that m 6666
‘ 66661666 16 6666116666. I 66 666 m1: 6.16 16' 16 ‘66 1 Wu 6616;? 616 wing “16
j * 161666, 666 6166311 may 1. 66 6611. ~ I» ' 166 66666:: 666' 666 666
, giving 66-17 66 66666666 66;.“ . a 611617 661.1 $311 15166 6216 66116161 6661616 166
, 66111611 166 6666 666 6666666 1,. 7 1 » ~ ' . 1.

' 3 _ . I 6666 6666 6 616666 661.656 61’ 1116 66161611 366 1 3.66 611166 6666 I!» 33666
. 61th 266an 11666 6666166 66 6 661W666 6666;»,6m6w 16111 W636“?! mm}.
6616666 66616166 666 661m6 6;, 66:66 6666 6666 16166 66 * " « ,. 4‘.- . -
1 ~ WMWW 6116 621 16615 ‘>"=w«-e;;~m 6116116; ; a #66166 66665? 61‘ mama lab-v ,. I
' 666666166 11666. {16 6163 I368?“ F i . 61666 61? Wk, I 66!: 1163.1 '
J; , , --m 61116613 14161 I) 666616 16 13611116 166666 '6 6666116 £61- W6 * ~ ‘
“ 611166661 66 6116 1:666 6666 6666 1.116 6.6666 majuriﬁy 61‘ 61161: 6616166139
1 , .. £53 61666666 661 1166 666661666661 11 66mm 666 a ., ' ,
Mb 66116616 666 66666 66666116 66; :16 66616 6116 616666 866666 33 6666 I a.» ' 5v
1 16 6666f1ﬂ1y 16 .1 11111611 6136 - a: = but In W WW ﬁlm. i ,g
.- 16 66 66611 616161 11666656 1313 13616161: 6616611666 .6666 a , _ 11. 1611166 1‘66 than , x
.6666 6.66 166616661. 616 666 61’; 666116 6116616 616 6W * ~ * ;
61.666 66 if 6666 £611 '66 1.166 66 1.6 666666 666666666 53 616166 by WWWM
* A ' ' - 1- 16 6M 9261.616 66ml 66666611666, 66 I m

I which 666 ‘66 a. 5, '14” .- I '- .
' I I6 ~ W “by 166.. I 66616 66 616 , *' 611366 665.666
666 1 6666 that I 11666 :1 t6 161116666 1166 61663. 666 6616166 161. 16
1 66 6116 6666666166 ‘61 " ‘ “ . = 1

a 666» 66 66 666 ~366ti6n 6666 46116 66m 16 3661'. 6 ’ 1 “ -. ' ~
1_ 066666 ~ I 611115661313 11:. 11m “$6666 661. I hm 666666611? 6666 w, my
' 161.6616 I'm mimmm 16m 6? .6116 1666 6656 6661:. 66 ~ , of £5;-
V . 3“‘5» W m mg ”WWI. *»~ .. " fﬁﬁt tM'. 666361.13: hm; .- ‘j I i V ’
I1 66 66:66 66 66166 61' 1.116126%; 1.1166 666 661,61 6616 W 11116 1526161 66666 61:16
:6 6111 I 6661.666 ‘6 6665’ 61' 6116 61666 666666. Inhmutim Report 61‘ 16):» m1
' 1 . 21661666 661651 61666 16 1 66161616 W” 61’ 1mm and 66116661 .
- ' AHMWVIVIWQ‘IIMI 1mm 161m ' . ' ' ‘

. I 6666 that war 666166 66 6616 6116616 that m 66;}5-1 616 W 66666 ‘3 .
1 Wm 1m 3”“ I09 W ‘6'" Vim W 61116 1 « waged-6 Wham.

 




"1— SI
‘v if“
rm

,, Mrs .on eiphne eZ. spot
"it: 965 N. Hollis
" Pa sden a,Coa lifor

72 W 46 6663661266MM H :6 I 66’
23662116966266.4666 644106 .e 66 £6,156
' ‘7 ‘7‘5 6:6 QM 6/

6,625:

I

7M “641/6664; 64/666714 69.6% We 34/; L6" at “6164666664 ‘
KM“ $411913 WM Iwa; 63677616 WwaL/a,  

~ M/L «(my 60%;? 2%,,» 6w; UM/LQWX, 442% M+Wczm

R/ \‘V /v:&’4c€w ﬂw/ 466 51111661: \4,2z, J’W/ffé‘c‘t
(p Eel/mu”? 6/469”me L51- Cﬂ/ﬁ-‘Ow '63 Ma 5M “6V6 4%,66
«661164.702 ~—-— “MI 7137‘ WM’aI was“ adné/MQWL' «6’2 cat/WCLQ
’“fjWMwWJ/fm ij 21.10469? ﬂuqﬁﬁw Ma 6%) 1&6: T
aaIwwaﬂqﬁ‘jl/I/AQ 6W M MA 6 ‘1 ﬁ/MMQ wax/2Q %6' 5664-016;
$46 64376. A11 076/662,, :96 #255,, WWII/MA,
6141/46

Ex UN“ (ELA-

7443/ Wuwjf'uwwf
{WM Man—6; VA 6 >6 W (R We KWW 661763: 7:626
Mﬂﬁm “67177661661616? WQa1~ﬂﬂJL1ZLzIM

A3ﬁ>0 Kﬁm MWCJI M6 ﬁ/ Jf‘wmd 77».
MO 3% MM” %g M’ Ma (1/ AW my Way‘s/A 66-40%1/

 




a; ‘Q QQQQQQQW < QQQQQQZ' QQQg Q-QZ QQQQQ? ,QQQQMM

61% m Mfg—40W?) (W Irv-z”; n/Lzys/L VE ($0 Lf ail/Aw JWW K’AM

,QQQ m: 7Q Aw?” WW Q” Qf {ﬂaw Q.
W% Ml AA—é /\Q MK 2L; WA ”gr/u “-7437" aw“ “Maw; .

0

(Zn/«4Q m WM MRS/’5‘ 'UQQ-Nﬂi AL 4 Q WWI Wan/4i AL

/W/Z""%~<QQ 14:6 Maﬁa/«Zr Ag 4: aQé‘QLQQ/(Q a/vawa/é ﬁf/Aum
(1%er M WW MW CZWYM W444i wgaiﬂ‘g)

4%, 44m LQQQL M7L (\Q 47 k Wong/Q M QQQQQLQZQ 7W
)X M ' A ’g-a’m Jaw/w W ff‘ﬂt 44:? «’CL. awf/ubu5( MAW .Wx UL, ,
:4” 7 {7 Q I .Q Q
44/» W Q4 “£444 QQQQQ. QQ 4&4 Q QQQQQQQQQQQQ m Q52? QQQQQ QQXQT QQ

mQ QQQQQL Q-L {<1wa /0 Jet uM' >MQQC:J é/QM 07mg—

WLWL/ ,/2¢\ a

0/% 5.11%“ MW 60% (-4.444 444 ' 44,)- A?%QM4 (kW/ﬁt
Mam/«w a 4Jz<7 ﬁ/QQK 42% (WW 6773
M/MQMTOQ Wg‘ﬁ/ﬁ

 




ESTABLISHED ”38
' “mm 7-531:
PRESS CLIPPING BUREAU

165 Church Street ~ New York,J

 

LOUtSViLLE, KY.

COURIER JOURNAL L

0 2'5 55l S 313 605 ' l

JUL 131960 _ l

 

.a. a4--..~..~iuc

 

R E ADERS’ norm or new

W’l’)llltl Shame The Boocrs '

To the Editor of The Co”Tier-Journal:

In regard to Stephen Bayne, the young man
7, who recently refused the American Legion award.
fit 13 interesting to note that, while the excusc
given for retracting the awards was that he was
impolite or had bad manners, or some such non--
sense, nothing was said by the school officials

igabont the bad manners of the audience that booed .

young Baync and shouted that he shouldn’t he
allowed to graduate. Perhaps. the school officials
realized they could expect nothing better from
that audience.

However, Bayne's action‘is a bright spot in a
country governed by pressure groups. If some
. young lady should refuse to accept a D.A.I’t. award
for the same reason, I would feel as if the mil.
lenium had indeed come at last.

Louisville. MARY SACHS.

ei‘nmont in the '«R'Wlltl, owing $110 billion more
than all other l’lillllllln L‘Ulllltlllt‘tl. in spite of this,
thoro may yvt 3m tiinc to aboutiacc. linlcss we.
do, and still escape an atomic War, 1 fear that
the long, crucl arm of insolvency will complete
our inimcrsion and our epitaph will be: “Our
only regret is that we had but one nation to give
to foreign countrivs." l‘Ulll’lS'l‘ SMI'l‘lI.
Shelbyvnlc, Ky.

Finds Il'uniano Bill/Wonk

Regarding the laboratory W bill, S. 3570.
whose passage you advocate, so would I, if it
would really protect the animals. instead of the
experimenter. It provides inspection by medical
groups. in other words by themselves. What a
mockery? We have an example in California.
Under the California law the State Department

lot Health is required to hold hearings on thi-~
"charges and, it‘ true, to revoke permits of tho

accused to obtain animals. Instead the Depart
ment went along with the institutions. "whitewash
ing everything, as was to be expected.
Inspection could only be entrusted to bone
lidc i'iun'ianitarians or trained humane wortmrsr
but how Would it he Dtlsléllllo to police experi-

‘inents on tho huge scale of milliom of animals

annually? No provision is made for punishment
of Violators. The bill concerns only those having

gOVL‘l‘llmOl‘ll grants, therefore covers only a frac—

tion of the cascs. JOSEPHINE Z. SPATES.
Pasadena. Calif. 4......“

 

f"

 

 




Mrs R. 1. Ram
, 1.ng Fond RRRR

y I I R w 5,3 Wu 3% that away RRRRIR R111 RRR thp R MR 111R .
' US$096? bill RRMRR R diffRM‘ﬂ ”1R _ R3313 W aiming Rf . ~ 'b

‘ -, 4. [RR RWR Raw.» 1131a fRﬁ‘k; “R11 MW RRJRRR 1R , _ ,
3 .j ‘ RffRRRivR w; RRR RR RRR 1m IRRRIR 4» RRRR RRRR RRRRRRRRRR Ran Rnly Rm y
‘ Rm MRW *~ km: WRRR RR 11w RRRRR Ra RRRRRR  'Ri“RhR RRnnR-R RR "buffalaﬁd“ -"

by by yy WWW; .V _ _._ R RR Rm: Rama. 321’ RR Ray

‘ 3 3 ~ .i-WSW’R WW W RRRRm RRRRiRRRRR 1R JRth 33R W1 11 W11- Rm: RR ,
I v WWW"? f“? WR:'T* , 5~1£1RRRRRRR I RRRRR Rf R RRRRRIR 1111111111:
1 T Rfﬁim. We 'U . ... _ : ~ , ,3

y, if I'm m R1113 _ 3 11mm my thRn I WWW _. ,. a y
11 Rama RR £111me6 3 ﬁrm M RR wry RRRrR, ERR R an IR 111 IRRRRRRRRIRR

' ' m 1:: am Rf RRRR W RRRR this, RR! 1* RRRRRR RR RR {RR-g R'sRR RR R
' < . 1y RR". 11. I RRRR R m RRRR in high . = RRR RRR MR? 11 1:1 IRRR
' , 32:11:le RRRR 11' mm RRRR 1R 1R h1g1: RRRR‘? I R RRR 1111111: m1; fRRR" Rf -. e; 1331311311

wtwhich Rem wa .1 RRRRIR IRRR M RR . * - = R RRR SRRRRRRRR Rf
Rumba: RRRRRRRRR Rm RRIRRRR RRR RR RRRMCLI , : ’.
. vjb, 3 ~ RR RRR RPR RRRRR R111 113m
3 . ~ ~ '~ , ‘: tRkR R RRRR RRRRRR
mRRrRRR 1R aRR‘lm “' ' » - a * ab _,3; :sz
RyR RR Rim RRRRRRMRR RffRRRmRRRRR 1R RRRRRRR. 11*» RRRXRR W RWWRW
that RRRRR Rm RRRIR RRRRibly 11%? RR RRRR RR 112mm RRR1RR1RR RSI}. RRRR RRR RRRRRW

: ’59 5” ”Wt 1W RWWWW W8 GMRIRIR RR RRRR RRR‘RRR RR RRRR RRRR mi‘RrRRRRRR Rim-“"1-
miss R1“ RRRR mRmizRRIRRR .. _ y ‘ y . y . .,

: .~ , ERR m that; 11' RR (Rom R111- RRRR RRRRRR ’ 1RR RRRIR RRR RR RRIR RR

gRR into IRMRRRRRRRR. DIR RRRRR 1R RR mRRRR RR KRRRR '1th mm 1R RR. WRRRR,

‘ 3m what Ram WW 11mm RRRR RR RRRR RR MIR RRR RRRR Rummy growing mum
,. Rad 1111mm Rf 111mm Rom 121% IRRRRMRR? IR RR RRRRIRR, RRR RRRRRRR R? Rm

(3me R111 RRRIR We 1% much RRR1RR m 11mm RRR1RR1RR RR wt. in?!» IRARRRRRR ,1.

- " ._m11aR RRR RRRRIRIRRR mad RR a up RRR Rha; MRRRRRRRRRR RRuIR RRR RRRR RR _ .
- 'fw inﬁpRRRim by a law ,1, IRR RR RRRRRRRRR, 111m 1R RRRhmR 111 RM .

‘ bill which would WWM'R mm m RR: RR 121% a IRRRRRRRW ' MR mm mm

3 a IRWRRm arm 11 13 Ramada.

 




' I... 2 .‘. *

‘ '»‘€z<ssiti know if sis haVe‘Viaitﬁd isms labsrsﬁsrissoi :*ii¢e sine aa-iaih is shin '_;'

ssmiry- and in .KnghMrsmi I insist: ﬁns the; Mﬁsnss'sx my mm ‘36st what-“a '1 a ismdmis

assist] sf *pssis’siiss Ii’islstisn like ishs‘ British sci and the Cooper M13. _ (ssfuhsss ‘ i”
missiplss is is based) can give .. When yin-saw that "things- sight animus be. r. ‘ ' . ‘ I ~
miss than thsy are saw” an What seal sb'servssiss ds‘ your bass , this i thought? Every 1

i -1._.ssssp sf svissscs shit I hsi's shims if i". ihsy'fwsuld‘ 19‘s- smash batterfor the ,,
T'mimalsi- Aimssst, wshswgnathﬁng ‘30 ‘mfsvicssiysb ,,m¥1¢1‘3ﬁ3> snd phssdrsdss:

., i 'migllisns of" isllsrs sf fsdrsrslsmtis sis ‘bsing agiitm sub is ass farmiml rimmtstish.
I sincsrsly hops, inst you will. ii?“ yaw suppsrt is ﬁss- stpss: sill, $92.: the aim 1 -s -

, »As : gigs finishss snsihsr listis'si ibis ssisrsiqssigssi,ni"sm assisiiis'if ' w M , .73
~ mp5?" sf ii smss ii. ssals- with a; 'i‘iss‘tpsists 1.710%}inclﬁéw..-‘wf”“93. I, mum ssmssisis f . g .

I. hissing ism yes sgsis messes-miss was: visits "W thirﬂdng all a: thisssisrislssss,‘ g 1
.ssr I.snsswihsi'yss;hsvs ssis is assiiissi sinisr fur sisssxi,,iss I iiiiissaiisiﬁ;;.x- -'

'1 you isn‘t, I lisps smililstss MW:

-¢f Ysu.cimsidsr t s sitsstisnfsssafsllstysi”iii likﬁlw is shaiiums ﬁsﬂiisiissijglrzw 4"“
5;3;;Vj‘t;lssisggrgiy,117 5‘;:,If’1

issriiatsmsws :7 " ' ,

 




Iovr"‘“onﬁ E9399,
qr; Wgter’ Wraaﬂ;
Au3u9t 173 19603

m
y.

for 1n1m91 11w
N. Y.

, "‘s°
99r Erlends:

Thank you far your literature and 19foymat1on 9bout the laboratwry
1919919 3111, 3, 3573’
WV 9 though feeling that vivisection 19 not th9 ﬁreat 9009 to humanity
hat Jou seem to f9el it to be I wculd be only 900 9193 30 3333033
hi.9 0517 rnd work for 1t39 999>7 929. But it 99999 99199 t9 9911999 th9t
scientrﬂs" t999991v99 woulﬂ 9nf9909 193 wh9n 3333 999 t99 V9?” 0999
who are guilty Of 99999 un999999b19 cru9lt199 909999 99% “7Q, 3Q}Qudﬁ
would I trxst the gmﬁartm777 0f H9alth, Edua9t1ﬁn 996 W91f9r9 999r 9109
knowing of some of b~39 M :1919 tne have 9939 19 £33 p99te 99993 999
great power these d9V9 to corrumt 999919 in 9393 3133339 Q33 th999
intere9t9 wne favor v1v1section 99V9 ﬁlwﬂkv Of 339 I? 99999 1mt999999
snob as the Dept. of Health aqueatﬁon 99d 991f993 999 1999 w
90 enforce t919 b111, really r9quon~111 93999333 9999 99 3999199
trustworthy humane societ199 W90 9191939 9999199999 33 999099993 9197019
would not even be able to 39t into the lcoor1t019933 33 3333 Wﬁulm 99 Ml
that other9 more capable were already tnere and 1999 99199 999 job 999E
Quately. ‘Thus things might actually be war99 than they 999 999!

C34!“

Can this bill not b9 amended to 31ve 9 91909 . L *49 .y t9 M9V9 9
part in tne enforcement of it? Then I think w "kﬂi 9t991 9999 of 1t,
99 God knOWS we need 9901 a b111 tarrlbly,

On page 8 of your 199f19t 1t 9999htL9910tor9 991919t99t109 of t919
bill would requlre tog-level 1999999599 of 9rC9t int93r1ty, ”“LfG 9913
doctors of 99910199 999 ~~~~~~~ ~~men of 0199(9'” Th9 9900399 of th19
bill all depends upon who dmln1 tars it, 999 fear many will net
help to 3et 1t tnr09“n un1999 9 diff9r9nt attituﬁe 19 t9k9n tmward
the choice of administrators.

 

Yours for our 99191999 animals?

,..;.. 9 ""5 ‘ ., .w
/ ( '7 /;f/C:7’. 4/ "r. ...
1 . L 1 -‘ 1, ‘ ,- ‘
L, “93"”?(9‘ 9*‘L~~cw’ '/ , ‘

 




‘ , 1113113122.;960 -

5' 111's. Lauren Gainss

' 92.7 113th 11310331; B136. 1 y .
‘ ‘ " Los 3.1133133 29, Calif. . 1

1 Bear 1135‘ G33 m85

Thanks for yams lsIIar bf August". 63:11. I sympathise with yaus concern that

Isa bill as protect lasers’oary animats provide mamimmn effectiveness and I ‘

Wald lie. Ia tall yon mby I think that the Caspar bill 33111.43 be highly affectivew 5' T

‘ mush mars so than a bill abiah would lsava inspectian Is 3110313. ,1
3V1? ' this Class, I am enclosing a copy made of a meant. 33333013 by William cm das»
j 5 ~ : , bribing candiIians which I found in an SPCszLnspacIad laboratory. .

. If I had as 31113033 133333311 bur gavasnmant 3113 an. generality at Why s In _
promise efficient, sansaientians inspaatars inspiring this saspact and ammg
Iha pasas Ia 33133.31. span snfarcamant of humans standards in labasatsrias, ' I
maid net 11333331313 Is: a second is 3313333113 1113 gaVarmsanI. Fadaral law is net .

'3 ’ ”"333in disabayad, ms 333 Iadarsl inspaatars tightly dismissed. The Congress 11:8

always ready to leak into any failure an this past as assessment inspection, Isa. ‘

5’ f "I will not elaborate Ins-than on this sspscI unless you wish me In. 1

7 » ' The aaperianaa yen had 3311: the madieal company which detained strangers “bafase ‘ '
amusing than Ia came In aha lsbasaa arias is a satay gaed reason its passing the! ‘

I V g Gaspar 133.11. Gavarnmenﬁ inspac‘uars cannot ha detained if the law prayidas far them

In 'inspac'h.‘ man is 113333137 31131: is naadad5 man with the strength sf the fedaral ..~ 3'

3 government 133th than: empowered In antar and inspect. .

2 You safar be 1.11.3 humans saaiaty amplaint 33.3.11 respect Is the College sf Radical

Evangelism, baiting? that any canplmt was dismissad by I119 113311.11 Depm'tmen‘b. In
my Opinion :11: was sleas from 33113 start 311131: this wenld happen. Tbs season is “shah
3313 California 133. an tbs subject 3.3 bat an sffactiva regulatory bill. It licenses

1. f. Iabaratosias, 131133 I seas sat “Janna each 11133333121331 scientist who was]; with animals.

[I ”As ‘3 rabbit, Ihara is an affectiya manna of animating the 133 because if a. license fer _

‘ 3 3211013 13331031 0011333 wars withdrawn many innocent peopla maid be pmishsd along
with tbs guilty; Iha bead: 3113 313111.11 be disrupted; 1333331331: 1230336113, some (if

1 1 ' canon might. 133 part (if a major gevarmmant prags'am would ’33 stepped; and there an . » I

' "? many other reasons why such a licansa Would never be take azrmcertainly net on the
‘ basis sf 3 cruelty so widaspraad as that 31‘ patting degs ina sagas shim are boa .1 =

Bit if Iha Caspar 13111 were in affect; Ibis was] by sauld be stopped immediately. _

x ' It could as stamped by aha inspacIsr 311mm. any band of prolonged an expensive
.9 " aanIrWaray in cemz't. scientist using tbs animals Would have to provde far

311331 3303111131, and if he didn't his license could be ravekad er suspended 30 33113123 , ~ -
he could not cantinua his aura. The removal 63 3‘ lines“ from and indivm‘lal “mm“
. as Wan 31’ his as three masking Iagathar would not cause any a: the major dis» ‘

V IsaaIions which 331111.3- Iaka place if the license of a sheila institution were retrieved. '

For 31118 3333011, I113 133 33111121 (1335 easily and practically anforcsd. II it is passed,
‘ I am canfidant that. it. will ha.- - _ . 9 5' , ; 5 1 '

 




I“ 2“”

x SSSS by MS}? WSS’S‘M Sf SSS Smith M» . SMS M m Wham
thinking at SSS Bapammt Sf SSSSSS, MMSSSSS SSS Mum in SW SSSSSSSS ,
~ SSSSSIWS SS .-«S&10WW S SSSSS SSSILSS e -' , SSS SS SSSSSS SSSS SS .
“9% W. SSS SMSW at 3.3%“; W W gnaw , 7; JSalSh SSWS H

~ 13S” 51% W a MSS SgSSSm SS Sign. ‘

“SSS Shem SS SS SSS SS SM SSW Sill , Sh WSSS SS SSS}: SS
- "MESS SSSS Sm SSSSSSSSS Slam SSS SMSSSI‘Y SSSS SS SSS SS SSS SSSISS

I ‘ y SSS-Sim, SSS SSSSSSSS IMSSSSSSS Sf SSSlSS St W SSSSS SSSS ,, 29321 SW ,

" S SS lam: SSSS SSS m

. 1%. SS SS SSSSSSSSS SS SSSSSSS SSS S SS SSSSS SSSSSSS, g,

' ’ 1 5 SS w W 5 MMSS‘ Y, 1 H , 1 f?“

 




I 11.1111 22,1960   ‘ V

, 1111. 1.1111111

- 7927 herbh 1111111 11.11.

I inn ingelnn 29, Calif... A.

KIM? We 38.1.1183;

111111111 11.1 year 3.11111 1E ingest 6111. I 1111111111111 with em neneem 11111

the hill tn protect Inherenery neieeln ermine 1:1“ .1 effectiveneen, nmi I
1 j : whale 3.1m to tell yen 1&1y I t ishet, the Gene hill them he high IIIeetiven-o
‘: ~ ‘ Inch men en 31121. e hill whieh W11111 111111 inepnctien tn 1111111. In help make

I this: clear I he eneieeine 1 why men hi” I rennet entiele by 111111111 cert new . 1 I b‘

:. I. .‘.If-»_;erihing neneitieee 1111:1111 I fennel in en Smeeinepnnwé “WNWI‘I. , , 1

II I the he ehenee between net iweteeeht ene 11.. generality II 11111 *I he

> f ermine efficient, enneeieetinee ineeeetnee ineeitine the tenpent 111121 e
ﬁfths newer he inniet. 1111 eninteenent hi“ 1 11111111 in Inhetntneiee, I .
, 111111111111 11111:. heeitnte Int 1. 11111111 in selecting the gene; exit. Fedetnl he in net
: 1111111 1111111 : 11,. 11111 new 1111111113. 1111191111111 :~i»aehtly dimieeee. , me 11 is .
-~ elweyn teeey tetleeh inte hey Inﬂere en: the 111311111 111’ geneteneht Mannheim, tee.
1 .1 I 1111 net elehntete hint en thin 1 enleee yen wieh he he. ~ _ : A ‘ ,

= The eeyehieeee yen 1111 ”1111 the 111111111 Item 1111.111 heme ntrnneere hetero .

.ellewing thee tn men he the 1.... ntnriee in :11 new gene rennen fer yenning the

009W!" -. heeehnneet inepeetewe neennh he 1111.11.11 if he 11w yenvidee m then

in 111111111. 11111 111 11111113 111111: 1.1 11111111; man with the strength in the 11111111
. gewemneni. , : .. 4’ {weenie tn nae-bet end 11.111111. . *‘ ,

' w 1 1.4.1 refer 1.1" the humane enniety 11111111311111 1111.11 “hence to the Chilean er heeienl
Inmgeliete, netine that the ,4- wt wee; hinnineeti by the health hw. In

11y 111111111111, it wee nine-r Item the Manet that thin 111111111 beneath The 1111111 11 that
the Belii‘etnie 1112-11 he the 1111131111; in 1111 en efincteve 11 ; they bill. It licensee

111111111111. hut it teen net liennee neeh 111111111111. neientint whe were with 11111111131 =

I in. e rennin 11 1. in he effeetive henna ei‘ mini-hing the law, heennen if e linen”
' Int e whele neeinel nellege were withdrawn nemy inneeeet 11111er 11111111 he 1.1 . '

. 511mg With W 3115-11?! the teeming Weld he 1111111111111; theemh magenta, name If

' which 1111.1 he 11an 11 n 111131111111.» 11111. prewne 111111111 he stepped; and there are

I II = [many ether reeeeee why Inch e lihenee 1111111121 newer he tam mmertainly net on

‘ the 11111 If e enmity tn widespread he thet of putting Inge in engee which are
1290 5233813“ ‘ .

31111 if the Cneper 115.11 were in effect... thin cruelty 01111111 he 11.11111 11111111111151.

~ I, It 111111111 he eteepeh by the ienpehtet without w need If ptelenged and expensive
:1 “nontrmetey in 111111. The neienhiht 11:11.1 11111111111113 11111ch have to provide for
, 111111 decently, end if he 1111111111, hie linemen 111111111 be 11111111111 or empenw an that

he 111111111 net 11111111111111 111.11 week. The 1 111‘ 1 license from en inhivihunl eeientint"

' I ' et Wen 11f 11111 111: three 11.11111; together 11111111 net name any of the major die»

,. 1111111113111 11h 11h weuld tehe 1111 me if the linemen hf n whele inetitntien were remind.
her thin renew, the law 110111.11. he neeily end pretihelly mfnreee. :, If it In penned,

. I he 111111111111 11111 it. will he. .

 




I ‘ >- I. ‘ 2 ‘1 v V. ; _ u d

- I 1011 by year 11111111111 of 1.11 111111211 '11?th 1.1111. mm 111 111111ny ‘ '

thinking 11‘ 1111 21111111111 1:: 11113.11, 111111.111 114:1 113.1111 11 our 11111111. I
1111111111. 11 111113-111 1.1 a 51111 1111111 13133111111111, 711:1. 171‘ 111111 1.1111 11 i ,
‘ 111 true. 1‘11 Secretary 11‘ 1.11111 1111 85.3... P111111 111111.11 8121111111111 1111, . 7

I but 11 1111 .1 1111 may 111.111 11111111 11 1111.1. 1111 11 41 11111 31111 ~ 11

.11
- 111-1 1.111211 11 “thing 11 than: 11111111 11' 1.11 1111 1111 1111.111 11111 11 1111 11
1111111. 1.1111. the 311111.11'y 11111 1121 1111111111111 11. 1:11 111111 11 1131 11113.11

1 '- 4 3111111, 1311 1111211111 1111111111 11‘ 111111.11 13‘ 111‘ 11:11“ 81111111 111111111 WWW”

411 (2111 1111111 1111 W1 1111 11111111111 by 13113111111 11‘ 1.111 "111.1 11 this 111111, _ 'I

* ~ I 111111 1 high 1111111). In 1111 131111111113 11111. 11 1111. 11111:: 111 11 1111111111

1 [11 111111 11211 1.1111 11 11- 1111111111 1‘11 111111 1111111. 1111113111 11‘ 4 III I

' £41.11. 1111M 111111 ‘11 111111111 11 ”11M; 11‘ 44.1121, 1111.113. 11m” 111 1111 111111 " ‘
1111111 1m any 1111 1.111. Ea 11 1 1111311 11‘ 1 11111111111 11111111.. 4 1. 3111
. 11111 1111 1 1111111 111. - ' 4 7 '

11111111 ha 11 11 1 111111 '11 111111121 1111111111111 1114-4- . ~
it. It 11 111111111 11 1411 1'11 11‘ 1 111111111 591111111 11 ~‘-*113111111111 4‘

: 11:11 1111 1111111111 14111 111111 1111111111 1111111111 1111. 11y 111111 11* 1.?
' ' , 111111 by my 1111111111 111‘ 11111 1111 '11 1111 1.111. I 11111 11111511 4

. 4 1

. 111:1 1111111111, 111 I 11111 1111 111 113.3. 111 ~+111111 1 1111 11 11111111. 3 '
I'Ijlaww 111, 1111 11111111111y 1‘11 :11 1111111111111 1111 my 11111111 1111 1 . 4
. ' 1111111131 111111111 11 11 1111 1 141511113; 111 113111111111 11111 1.11 1 4 ‘g- ‘4 ,
‘ 11‘ 1111 011111 ‘1? ~ 11 1111 11:1 11‘: 11 1113.1 111 1111 1111111111 1111 1111 111

t - . .2 dﬁﬂmﬁﬂ

‘ -: T1111 11 1 1111 111111. I W ~ » ; _ "I- .«~;; p,._ I
1‘ “11 1111 111 111 :1 1115.111 11 11 1111111111 111 111 11 14111 11 1111 111131
1111 11y 1111:: 111111111111 11111 11111 have my 111111 11111111 11‘ 11111 11111.11
4 1111 111' 11 1111 1111 111111. I 113.1111 111 '11 111 11 11 111 1111111 11 111 111.1
.1611 mmptly to by j 1111 1111111”. .

. A 11111 ' I}

T 1 I 381111111me ‘

 




haue7a he Bemelmane

7 iety for Arima7
Fifth Avenue,

New York 22, New

‘Nh L)

P."

7 3
“L753

,
t

 

’7) S‘HJL G) "5

_, \

be un4nown baeew 3'
I worked tor a med
labs. They

the buildi n3 withou
to keep (33.3 353 clean
with other owe“ e in
burruxi, Howe many 31

p.

.1

7IIIJVJ
cgntrov

I am sure yam
~vchfel ete
Jieﬁie7e1 by

Frotec
Floor

eceht

8380

tive Legislation

n ,3

mg the VJOpGP
J0, but how
3atore (The alth
I- the labs were open
C. A. and all interested parties
Shed. The, ere woulJ ill however
fo7lowin3 has been my eXgeriance.
cam ehv who invited tours of their
SV Item and no etre “ger ever entered
3 questiOheJ and ggtaihgg. Men
him is caree7 for, were oceugied
After ever7v wee‘47
doubt the practice

iﬁjll'ﬁtillS Time gel‘
‘Vou :73 trying
when the invee ti
medical team? 7

d
L
\J

t d. '0 CC a 1’1

. nr

24534
.9;

No cantihues.
Lee Angelee College of Medical

The Humane Society camplaiht was
e73t. New theeo llere ie seeing the

he

 

HUﬁeLﬂe iSDCitﬂJ
armi tﬂie 65Ff633e

210738. Pt 43le}.
23, "7777‘

LA. .1 -A. .w .

927 No

Q i . . v-7. . W
LOB Aﬂéﬁ ’”

.- 3x3

’2)
anything be proved that is Jeetr07

end animals wer

1’17 -I‘Cd

e

d

 




‘ ’5.
3 "Rﬁ.9//
, "\ l. .g '43
1 \k
a x,
‘ - ‘1

july 29, 1955

"3135 773;” “r 3:533;
. - 3 1:: 3.331 rm 11.5.1153 ,

"3"!" v.56 ..,., WW 3.5- ,, .L. ,, :1 ‘1" *1 ,
“"31” 7’" ‘7‘ {,3 13. ,3. €5.11" 3!:1111’ 3231.31.51. 3.7" 3; E133" 323,: 1 3:11.333: "

19.}

. A (2.,- ﬁ ‘
‘3 "if 1? 2,1 I? :3»

‘ulvl

I!

055 5551553555 355 5155155135'555 555 555”5M 15 553155 35
5555 up 355% 5155 55553 555 555p55 5511 5555 551 5555155
such 5151553 555051t115 35 11 from 355 ‘ 55355 1 5533~51515553155
3551515 555 555555. 1 55 sorry 35 553 5 ~55 5‘15 151555
335? 5555 5555 51515 t 555 5111 555 553 31535351. 1 1L515
555 13555 5555 5“ 355 15~Mw1551 55515 5 $53 " ”” W51 *5515555
5:1c5 5500555 555 5111 5155 55551 51 15555. 3103 115351555
I 555.5 the 555155115515 M 355 15513551 “5511 " #551551
55515555. *3 15 5550355 55 533555 51 55‘ 555*“ 5311 15
5151515 wﬂt55 533515. 13 355 anti~Vivi 5532551535 5:55
555111151 ta 5531“ 31 3 555 ﬂnmper 5111 55511 f135111 5
,H51555 551551 5:: 0511555355155; 355 5xtr511555 511 355 53555
:155 555 515551y 555555 3553 it 55515.

553 1 51"‘5 155351 55555 5 135 55355 55155 355 3553
3553 “55 9513 51151 1 35 5115511155 5555535 m5555555¢5555555
Tram 555 1? 55351 5151~511vlbw 15553 $515 ”5 35553
7:33.133 3331C 3..:::§;t3 i" C. I 55“” L: {33153. 530 3.1.61" {if} 11):“. 3353.15 a (23333.5 t‘hﬁ
paint 555 55 1555155 55 5555515155 55 355 :5551 1111»

g 5 50153 550n5 553553 35 5555 55 155555351155551555115
555555t 5555 555 5555 55555. l“ 355 35105055353 9? 555551555
53555 1555, 501155555 555 553 555 555555 55 555315 531J $r939nt¢
Th5 fact that 555 155 5x1555 555 5553 55 155555555 0? 5
policeman may 5505 up 53 55y‘3155 15 3 . 555155ttl @5313 Of
p550315511y all 1555. ‘ ‘

The 5551 55553 a? 55. 5 51535 5555511 55 is 15 518
95153 3 when 55 5555 "5515 5511 5555 355 5355,515 35 5nd
viv1550ti 155 5555.5055 51fficmlt." 555 5 i5 355 5552~vivlsncti5n
15551, 555 deapiﬁe 355.f553 3555 5555” 7555 5515 5551 51111555
of 5515515 55555*155555t55155, 551?55 55 5 515, 15 3 W1 55553 5;
511135 xznpratected by 553 5ff5 53155 155, 555 3555 5nti~55515555155153
refugea t5 5515 355 5515515 if it 55515 55k5 35.5 355*515 ha
555 vivisaotian 55r5 51fficult. I 555515515 515 V555 555n5.

 




.
. »

£73 7333.713" 7 7‘1 L:

54-2.”;
,4 :3 .7; 1...,
(w. a a. .9 3"

a," .vq»

wJ

.. .~.
.4
’ o

a.“ .x.

a
. a.

J > :31. .'- ‘3 .

:13 '3 ..

..‘.
2"“ 3‘73 7'1.
'“p.. '1

‘3 .
7 i «31 “Aubw w

mu.“

(ruin ..

x~r~3 057313;.

r".
(3,.

VL 7Q
03mg

EWﬁII€7V3€§€3

{S

"7

3‘~

a \....

.- 4.... 1. ,ﬁ
3’ g: 7.,“ 31f? 6‘ ﬂ. .‘

:\,~'

E::.1f;.,\ “V1.13:

4‘3"}
'\ .1,

ﬁwﬁs mnﬁ
‘mapav

‘
In;

$33333€353 . uw

_°~ . «I
1.1717(3’ .3.

r

l '» w h. ~:I~w u.-
.‘ZQC {WM 73% 7‘7

44
.
;;b

g .
.' ‘3 ~, ,3: 17,.“ u a
J

9..

m

1y 3
i

k

"Law.

J Law}. (E.

a 13-1
Llﬁiigfx

I

if

.

a7! 3'.)

.5 ‘_
J

r-
I

'4
I
‘vw-D‘

.M’ g

l
in:

I.I::..

I .9. h”:

{5
r3: "2
w .1

r. n»... A ..

:7“.

5"}:1’3 ‘ cater

pravides
xyﬁmrﬁﬁnt

\
{$.37}

I"
“4 x,»

p.
39”“: ‘7
72:41:)“ I»: 3" xii:

«u; , ,

> ._J
137;: N5

. ‘~:. 7 x}
ﬂu A‘-
k. '

«I,
-- ‘ "7 "3 :u
i E i 1 ' .
”IR q '1’ \w

,y.» A. ,

'9!“ ”3.45. '....

f7"

.
1731;“

'H”

.. oricn

«‘6‘

CI“ {'3 m; 3‘;
(mi. u, \~"..6

‘1
I.‘ ¢ 3 - 1y";
4‘, iv I.. .. a...

’11

'; .1 ,7'13’5" "
,..§J ,

.17 g-

7. . .3.
tamﬁ

prmvmnt

)

7‘»

i'I‘; _ _ ..
w «L I717? 371 331.1 2:763

-, . .
s I“ ~ I 'r’“ _ «I ‘

“2.13.57 mimwuiéu ..

M“. 7w“ .i’» :3 raJ‘S . 1311'31’»
7' net seam
y 39

mi.» #551: 5
7 a M '

7” "r”! f‘f ".7‘

U

3'“ 1"3': 5“?
LI Lu’ui. ..

J4
a
l

H'-‘

(7" I

3.,1 a... L.)

{'7} f5

rill can
nza law.
Yﬂﬁ wanﬁ
77733175

ﬂ ('7
r-x ~ ‘
'7‘ ‘ his

I‘ mw‘ 'k.r' ~:

. r .a ,p . "
3 g ._fi it?“ ":3,
,4 -.. x ““5 4.."

.1

\L‘,

*‘K
ma. (”\in

;

Iv-
.. .1. F,
0-.“ h}

vols
a

77:) c3

‘9‘} k

daatrayeé

 




boutn 3roogmv

'W' 1&9 3:3.

0

lug Wag £0

4. '1“
U LL

a

in labﬁratories.

1,,
.
I
a...

mavament; aaﬂ

two articles fror

please 100k the:

persunaliyy

p; it

1-, ’ 4-" ,1 "S. 1" '. i ' r1 ‘1: - "> ,-“ ﬁ ‘
CCbUS 8 Q .3. J \11 all)” with ..a.. 4'. J. 7.4. i; 5.}.1, .. x:

1,.“ . , ' , ' .1. (V . .. , ,
s;utu 1n their Sb$b©ﬂ8ﬂrb a

0
"2‘" .ﬁ:’.'.‘
'1 ﬁll. '
.«m» a
A.
a

KNGW that I aﬁ on tae Tlvnh

But if ﬁne

-\ n .L

, -‘_1

wv

hool teacngr,

mdst Sea

‘ ’ ‘N
J "1.. (J .3. l.

voicea

blt we

 




inn

ﬁnanca

2

W

my

I

“L.

w!
.I

 




‘ W1

111-11111111111111. Eta-«11111111
35 31111113. Cam - ; .- _. ;,

1111- 1111 1111111111, _

- 4 - The:1ha 11111. 311111? ‘3- 57‘1313 111-11111111111111 11:? 1111‘ 11113.: 111111- 1111111111111111 1
-hmmhnalhhhﬂ:;% "‘ - ‘_ f ‘ .

-_ 21:1 111111111 111 31111111111113.1111: 1.1111111 2?11V11¥1'_m1,1111111 1111:1111; 111 '
mm 111:111111-11111-1111111 11W11mi111 11‘ 111116111 .4 1.11 11111111, I .. 1111
”39 ”WW ”WW 111111.1hmld 111 1111-1 { {Th-at 5.1 1111111111: 111 1111 171.111 111111 1311211 111 ‘
W W? “it? ”11113 1111111111111 :11 11111-11111, 11 11:. 11111111111111” 111 111111 11111111111111 -
anew-11.111111111111111! 11351111111111.1- 1113.}; had 11 1111111‘ 01111111111111 1 ~ ' - ‘ " « - 1‘
' 6:11:11 Wit-111111111 111111.111 111-1111 11111 11:11. 11411111111211.1111
‘ 1119113311111 13111. 111111 11111111? 111-1.1111111 11:11 111111;. ' 1:111 1111111111 ~ *

[93111031111 11:11:11 111 1111111. 11111 1111-1111111 111113111111 yum-1111» 11111111 is; 1111 1:1 .11 1113.1 f . ,

my inﬁvidual. 1.111111111111111 «111111111115111111111111 1111111113: 1111111111113. 111-1111111?- 111-1111 ; ~ .- .

: 1111118111 111-11111111111111 111111111:- 11111: 111». 11:111. 1. 11:11:11,:11111‘11111111 ":1 1:11 1111-11, '-

‘ ’W W1 11111111 1111111 111/.11 1.111111111111111 I 11111 11111111111111: 11111 11111111111111 ‘

" ’1 ; 11:11:11: difﬁculty 1.11; 111111111; 111 1111111191 11111 111-11111111111111 1111111;
. . ~ ‘ 11 110111711 1:11 "" 111-:- 11111111111 11111111111; :1 [11111111111- 11 “FT-1151.311 ‘
111-11111111111111 (1111111111 1111111111 hi1 111341-111- 111 11:11 11111311111111 11311111111111. ' ' - ~ i' ' “W“

'. , ‘ .- 1111111.: 11111- 1111111 .111":111111111111111111;-11111111111;1111111111111111,1

- . in ﬁlm :1“
' 11$ 15111111 1111111111 11111111111 11.. 11:111-11111111111111111111 v-111111111' 1111111 1113-11 1111:1111 , '
2 v 2 111111 11 1111:1111-1311- 3111111133“ 111:1 1111111: 11111111 111; 111-1‘1:- 1111 111:1
. 1311111111211 11111113111111; 1111111111111 1111111111 11111111111111: 11111111111111 111 111-11:11:11...” hf ' . ;:
- 11331-111 E’I‘WT 3511111101311 11111 11133311911 .1111? 1111111 ‘ - -
W111, 5111111111111 . 11.11111 1111:” dam-1:9 ‘ " '
; mp m m y‘ , . ‘ I, 113.1111: fﬁﬁ‘ﬁgg - ﬂ ;
11111111111111 11.2-2- ’ mm 11111111 11111111‘1111111'11111 111:1:11111111110 ; 4:11 3
1111211111911111111111111111 911111-1111- 1111 111111.11: 31111111 11111111115121"- 1- ' , 4
‘“ that 3W 121115? 1111111111 £811) “YT-1153115; 1111111111111 1111;} b11111!- (1911131 “1111111 . ~ 3
; , Cougar "11:11.3. "111111 "-1111 11111111 [1111. 1111.11 {1111.11 1111.11 111‘ 11111111“ 111111113 11211? 11111111111113.1111 .1
I 111-11111111111131ng 1:11 11111111111111 111* 111311 11111 111'? 111-“W1 4 . *‘
W 15611131, -. ; , " ' '_ ' __ _ L j y _ - ; . ,

- . 111111 1111111111116 1111 W1”,:1111T,111m111m 11'3111111,1m111111114 '. 3_

‘ 111-1111111111111 1* 31M 1- W 1,111,111 Mr Whﬁmhia-tmﬁm .! 11131111 1113.11 - r;
" ﬁe W“ ‘W W 13.111111 11111111111111» 1. 1113111111111 111 11113311911111 1», 11111-1 , ,
- ' - 11 111w 11111 1111- 111111111 11.1111 111.13., 1111111111111 1111 11111111111 1111:1111 111‘ 111:? ;
111111111111 11511111111111 .v-~---*;‘11a§.‘bl1 11111111111117 tar, 11111111112111.1111 111111. 5.1 - - _ A g ; jig

' 1111.111 5211 1211101111111 10 91811 1:11?- 1-11111 1111.113 111;»: 11111411111111 11m“ :2 1111111111111 -, ; ' ;‘ ,~
1111, 111:1: mtmntamy 111111111111.htm 21110111 1111111111011 151' 111» WMt.
M'- Agriaultm Tanisha- ‘amatmis at? 11111 111211, 111111 11:; ~ 111111-1111 1111111 111-w -. 4 - 435,;

 




's?“

11,_:s ef the minimises be. , is yes sees; tbs m segues...
sees be is tbsft. e eases). fees is e em see-ism es est. ’

. sf the President‘s is raise smells flees federal Less Tbs Gees bill,
{Minerssrss bee, ibe beauties sf m if the We assesses Serbian is sir
lesbian. If ibe Gasser M31 is sesame mess essbebiss sesame (wees tbe
sssssieiss will, ei‘ ass-s. seek is (website see is}. their was) shew m be '
we seem; this seeiss1 e0»: -' . v , as; Ii” asses
see-s, ism; “tub line ”seems is presses ebb lies iris heirs surmise! see, thm the ‘
Sseseers be 'sssssessisbivee We? ssib‘is its ibe z. meld beetles '
sees mummies... s bless st? 1b is heifers is is the seas sf seem

I "assesses“ ewes seseisisses a» be Senses flees wees-see sbe

bis imbibe e ssbi as? been eels“ sass s seem“; begs. bee sill beefs sees this
. ssmm is been i see seems, is bbs less {Messenger Reese‘s, ,. ‘ ‘ a

~ . . is ems bees eases be is '--V s; 7 "g.;*mﬁoi§£nibv be swims lbeﬁ'bbW missile ‘ "
' ' bis bsisse s s is sis seei ins mess Messier: s is beessibssiss basis mess. If. is
- , sees ssb seems Tibet ever: ens sbwess basses Weber smile is be.

sine steely,

 




Application for Renewal of Membership ( on-voting)

5 \

Please renew my membership in the Animal Welfare Instit te (check enclosed).

Associate Member .., ten dollars

( ) Contributing Member - two dollars

, ”mow-*1

NAME: ; : ., 3,. 311,. ”’2’- j w ,1;ng M L/ttnt stag)
,F’ ,’ ' ’“‘ *% ~ :3). *WMMWv
ADDRESS; T, . " : :1 ,1?“ 1, ”1:111?

1"

CITY- m / - ””7 «‘5; x «-
' L a" 1 , ~ ‘ ,J W ”ma?" A-M STATE: '1/ XL. L. Jr.» 3......“ .v ”I f; X", ”WW...

~~-~«::s:« -«~«--

(
. . A; . f ‘5’
';’ IL“. {L‘FW 4“ f L.
7/ .4-

‘V'r—W

 

,7 i. . ‘
m... L,m - > ' L'”"”(.-- if: «Laue: ] ”'5” I L
.wam K , j

. Z 1’ '.‘ »" :1 V f N . K}? .‘I V . 4’.“ ,. ,‘c ‘
, 1:“ if: [it /:L~z.~c¢.~ / L; i g * .. - * a» m“? ./ Jib “" “L-
L. AW ’,'~_ M I u / 5 ‘ _ .. ._ mm“... «w ‘ AV ‘ .' .5” ' ,
, . 4,.‘M-m—

If >15 J' I . j I h. -.
/ 5:) ' ZL/AVL—Mf "'4'“

f‘ .

 




Twwucé2wm ;;;‘;;,;:
2,» .r “ ‘ i" .2, M) j; L,.z,Q,,:3 .9 Q“; (.1215 .

2 .Eamw 123322 22,2222;1322 anly 5222.2222222 ma
2222222 it wa2-faewaeﬁaﬂ‘ﬁﬂ'mﬂ,ehile E Wag an a erip

: 22222312222 2222122222222d, 222292222122“ 2222253112: 22:2 222221 2222221922

2.“ 2:222 Whiﬂ§fl it 222 222222252 232.1222 - E 1222222222 22212 222: 19.12122 222- .22'22 1::

far»: 232222 222222222 22222212222221 2:223“ 2222. lie 1:222:22); 2222212221, :20W'12gw ; . ,w ,
"2.1212322222222222: “ 21 22" 2332222 2322;227:2222: 2:23:11222 2122222223221. 2.22:» 22272122222121; g

; . , 2:52:22: 222% 21,122. 32121 22222122” 21222213. 1272:3222 ‘. may-22212222221": 222:: 2.2212 .
J 2222522: 22 m 2. .22 Tum: 22:22:12; 22122 2222-2222;; 2222221: 22221212232122 ‘
f 2222:2222 2222222212 2272:2222 , 22.222222 32.221221 2222232222123022122221 312:2 {1212:2226
1 122212.222‘222‘222222222222,22222:: 22 22 21222 2222225212222game-eat332122212 $222222 ;
2:21:52“; 223222122922 2, 2222' 22223 2222222 222222: 2222 222221327 22721211122222.2222 millimw
' 2212?, 22222;} .2222. 222222 2122222 , 222:2 mwmm 2:22.22 3.232% 21222222222223.2921 ,

' . f 222» 22% 222222122223 ‘2‘ v

, . 1‘22 22:22:22 12.222; 3221221" 12222-2222 21; 2212122 22222223222222- £22322 213.22 22222222212222 . _
22322212 ‘1‘“ 22.22 3.2222 1* 22222 122222 1222:2222: 22:22, 9.2212213; 21 22.2132 2121222221122 222222222222 3: a ,
2222. 12:: 22212222 22222“ ‘ 23122222222 22222222222 22122223212: 22212221222122 7 “222:: 21222 if , 27:12:22

-122 22"22222~22p22«2f 2j222122i22222n'1ik2-emmt had-bean;

22222221222222.2222 in 2:22:22 12222222221222.222222222111 1‘» 2226221122”. 22222er
22222222 222221 222122222322622 2221272, 2211 2:22.22 3:222:32: 222222222212 ”M123 $551213:-

1:222 2322122212“: 22213222231 1221;22:022’2 “2:2 222222212; .7 a? 1122;1mnt 222222222222; 222121 1.

‘ 22222222222217 222132522" 22122 2222:22222‘121- 2:2-2222:1222. 2222222222222: 1121 the 3.22221; That“

12222222222222: 222222: 3:91: 222222122 222222122: 2‘02"? 222222225122 in 22121252113221“ ,
1222222222,, 2222 “222222, 222221 22221222212121t .~:“."2222 2211222213 121 12220222222221.2223

4222 22226122 121 12222222. 21’ 2.23212 , 2122‘2222222222122222 21:? 2122222221422 2.222222223222232?

; e222 222232221222: 2222222222222 2222:2i22bia 2222211222 25112223 of 2212‘222222222222222; .
£22 22.222222212211122‘2222 2722312122 212dd22‘222222mm22c1 222221222222 ' M221 '222222‘22222222222 :j?
2211293222211 11231212 to: 222222 222122; i122;2212221m 221123" "2:28:32: 12 222121212321:
"2323.; Mei 227222 222222221212 122229112542 2; 22332122221 22; $122,121.22th if-Iumphmy
--2221 221122 [32321222322 flow: .2231‘222‘22 »_ 222922222222. the 122221122 2.2122222522112232?

will $222222 2.} 222222522 " 22221222222221122 22222222222 ;' “is-1.0231292: 2232 it? 1.3.222
,2 '- ,‘ 22211310521215; a (3033:? 91? , @212 1211.? 2221222223. ﬁlmy§8p0?t 0f the Mimi ‘

' 222.2 22222 2222 222222 1W2 . ‘

2'"VeeleeeeTmeeeiteeeteeiehteepeineegp222 of e12 222222 in 2222:

"1

, 21112632132; 12.22 “E:- 22222 9133122222 22222222: I 222222 mrma with? the

30032222 115.11.. 2‘322222: 231222 ' 0122:: 2221:; 22:12:72 1 1.2222222 posi'isiwly'fmm 2123‘

' -' 2222.12 29222222222221, -~ 222222223122 252229 2222222.: 2222222232 .22 9:220:21“ or ‘ this; manure

' . (122223.222 22 1222222222 alts?“ 23122 animal. F223? from wishing; to
dalucie 2321222., 2222221123,; ”21212:? 2232;223:1220. 222222222221 me: public 202212

' 55:22:22.3 2222222 12-222.:22202222222223' £212 26 2211222218, Md #31123“ are . , : -
ﬂuccmdingg it: 23122121231211”. P12322236” 122115-2212 a22ima122 by, mmparbimﬁ
the Geopwr.hillg ; *” ., 1 ”'i ' ' . .' ~ ' '

,2222222122

 




 




' MW
.MMWﬁ/WWW
WWW

 




 




11' E-Erm E‘--€aci.;‘nert£32‘ :

‘ ﬁlaaga fmrgiva th' dalay‘in rﬁplying‘ta ywur
Emmi lettm‘. I have? ham: traVGEZLingg mmg'tantly and am
far Mammal in 212 cavremmmﬁiemcé. »

~ 2 aympaﬁhima with ﬁﬂuﬁ éaaﬂra ta-maha agre
thaﬁ thera ara ma laaphalaa in tha ﬂoopﬁr‘kill-for the
hmmana trea*ﬁwnt d? ﬁxpwwimwnﬁal animala. I maﬁa that
ﬁou use the wamﬂ‘ﬂacauﬁately” in thﬁa-cmnnmatiwn, and
SO I ﬁhimk it may b€'%h&t tﬁara 13 a miaunﬂeratandﬂng‘
mt me: we: mm {garxmnplérs of yam": ”19;; r- ifxich unﬁemmnt
:uygery. @hm ﬁwopar bill waulQ vaguira ﬁhw uﬁa 9f
mnagthﬂaia fa? gmah an apavatimnw ﬂamngwg many exgavkmamta
an animala avw mat auwgiamlg $9? @xﬂmﬁla, in tha study
a? ﬁigaaaﬁ, tug animal.may auffﬁr in-ﬁxa game?way a.
33;» 3?an $12.?me i‘xmm may a?“ £3. wwim t5; d“ aympmma w a
hm aﬂmm , am gamma“? ,5 $3. grow 1 ﬁlm-ﬁat . But 5.- mﬁi" WWW , the
animﬁl 9&nmmﬁ ﬁe mmaakhatiﬁeﬁﬁny'mmve.th&n & ggwaon
mmuii'ba @mwimg ﬁhw duraﬁiam of’thwaa Tymptamﬁg This 13_'
gugﬁ wmm ﬁxampla, far axpmwimﬂniaﬁimm i$"$0 @Ktvamﬂly
Vﬁriwﬂ‘amﬂ ammyiax. it i& a§amluﬁmly ﬁaaﬁntial that the
%311 %e wviﬁﬁan aw thaﬁ it will mat prﬁveat reapmnaiblw
yagaardh, fa? if it ﬂawﬁ ﬁhat,ik>wamld uni atanﬂ ﬁne '
rammtaat ahhmme 9f @vwr baing anactad int0_law.yx

if yam wiil read a litt1@ farthey.in the
ymwagrayh ﬁhat ymu.rafar ﬁg ymu will fina that yen?
ﬁwairﬁgta yyavant»avuelty in ita @xtvama.faﬂm, a3 yam
WE??? pmpmﬂy pm it," 13 vary warly daa‘lt with, "far
"it wwgmiyeg that animalg wﬁﬁch arw anffaving aeVam»anﬁ
yrﬁlmmged pﬁinwmngt'ba painleaaly Eilkwiu ” '

W Th@ Umepwr bill &&f§nﬁtely is mat mﬂrely

1a ”aara anﬂ‘hﬂuaing bill”, and ww are preyared t9 fight
t0,prmvant'tha mdopﬁimn of waakaning amendmmnﬁa‘which ~
will undQMbtadly'ﬁa prepoaaﬁAta'mgha it inta gash a billy.
VOM“ 3191p ”in «'il'%;£:::~mam‘fi rim, 35156 mi: ﬁamge x‘vﬁ; thaut 32:52 Rimming
&mgm&manta ﬁg neadéa. A ﬁwnﬁiﬁﬁrable number 0f lattera “
frﬁm.3cimnﬁiaﬁa Wha appﬂaa'affeaﬁive ragul%t10n Qf animal
amﬁewﬁmantw hmva rgaehad‘mﬂmbava of Congresaa'ﬁentinuing,
iﬂmﬂﬂﬁa frwm yam and othwr gaad aiﬁimens.ave asamntial

if pratecﬁiam i$ ta be 0%taimwa for the millimn3.af
animmm in lmbimatmﬂﬂa. -

ﬁiﬁh much apyreciatiwn 0f your wwﬁk~for the

ﬁinceraly,

 




 




 




July 11, 1960

Dear Mrs. Frey,

Thanks so much for sgnﬂing us the repliaa _
you received'ta your lettera t0 Wash3ngtan; We ayyreciate
your work for the badly needed Cooper bill.

Thank you, tao, for Senﬂing the publ§catiom
oﬂ the ﬁatianal Ant1~Vivisection Seciaty. I ragret t0»
Say that it-is 80 full 0f misleading ﬁtatements.and ‘
flat untruthsthat it is a real danger to the humane
cause. Beth tha ﬁatienal Saciety for ﬁadical Research
and tha Natimnal Anti~ViviaectiQn Eceﬁaty is attacking
the bill with no apparent regarﬂ far truth‘ '«.

Because d? yam? intarast, I am.asking thﬂ
Animal welfara institute office to_s@nd yau a cmpy of
tha laat iagua 0f tha'information'ﬁepayt which, on
pages two and three, muote and analyza 3mma 3f tha .
Shaiking‘miaatatemants of thﬁse twn arganizations Which,
each for thaip own raaSGnag'are deing.their utmmat
to defeat this humane bill. ' “ .

If wa,can suacaed in thaining anactmant
of the Cooper billwithout any weakening amendmenta
the only pwactical legislation fa? the pretection 6f
laboratery animala in Our country'will be on thﬂ backs. _
‘If the bill wars anything like what the Navs claima it 1%,
of course it would require vast amauwts of strangthening.
{owevar, i doubt that it will require stranghthaning if ,
only it can be passed. If i; should need strengthaning later,,
of coursa, that can be dealt with an tha baaiaraf experience.

I cannot emphasize strongly enaugh how difficult
it will be t0 pass this bill in the face of highly grganized
opﬁosition on the part of the ﬁational ﬁeciety for medical
Research. I hope that yau will do all you can to ancourage
lettera t0 Washington in.gupport 0f S.-3§70 and ita Comyﬁnion
billa in the Kouse of Repreaemtativea. If we do not &0 cur
utmoat new, I fear that laboratary andmals will nevar get
the protection they 30 urgantly need. ‘

Sincerely,

SecretaryéTreasurer

P.S, We Should be interested toknow what weply you receive from
Dr. ﬁrﬂgﬂtmdt. . ‘

 




a

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 Eas’r I7+h Sheet
New York 3. N. Y. Monday P M
OR 5-l069

MB sendsyou this ,as non-routine.It's a note
from Mrs.August J-.Frey,12 Burton St.
Larchmont.It was attached to NAVS
June 1371116th (rewriting the bill).

When you reply,thank her for sending in the
letters from Cong.Griffiths &
Cong.Dooley (Dooley non-committal

(Might also ask her to let you know if she gets
a reply from Dr.'Dragstedt.She wrote Dru!)
and asked that we fill in his addresssMB
did and forwarded it.It was a reasonable
enough sounding letter ,honing NSMR woulﬁ.
not oppose the bill,that she isn't 0p-
posed to vivisectim but wants all res.
to be done humanely and this bill seems
reasonable approach,etcetc.l’b was on her ‘
stationery tic env.)

Mr.OliVer has introduced 12%?! ,companion bill to

Griffiths & Bailey.0n June 21. Wantsto pu
insert in 1515 parag Of inf.re;;;ort?

 




 




3‘5 1')
4/ ., V. 7,’ ”3“,
Shro‘
\

"'T-tﬂm 1 /’

/r
/

.v I,

‘9.“ ure‘maxf “”1.“-

373.;
w

 




July 16, 1960

Qua? ﬁrg. Byrna,

316336 fnrgivg the ﬁalay in}?eplying ta
your card. l’ve beenﬁ:r&vwlling constantly'and
haven‘t been able to kgap aﬁreagt of correapmndanga.-

In anyway t0 yauw quastian abaut ﬁne Britigh‘
CrU$lty ta Animals Act 0f.18?6, it is the_ﬁniy truly
affﬁctive lagiglﬁtian far ﬁha pvatectian Qf Experimwntal
animals in the world. 1 have maﬁa a'mogt tharaugh.study

0f it and 3am aagmra yam fram fiyatwhand amperianae

‘ that if only our axpwimmtal animala in thi‘a muntry
ware treated with thm aamﬁ canaideratien.and~exparimﬁnt3
dasignedwith the sama affevt ta avoid naiug unneceasarily
large nuﬂbara of &nimals and ta avgid neaaleas pain,
vast amaunta 0f alffaring would,hava baaanraventad.

Britiﬁh antimviviaeatianiats blama-ﬁha Act
far than» failure to outlaw animal axpaﬁ mantatian,
, hit thia iﬁ-nat'borna Gut by experianaa inxzounﬁriaa
mu ch do» mt. haw any mantra titan m? ﬁverMQntatm-n. _ .
Ea couhtry hag aver accadad be antimviviaaationiat demama
to-outlaw @xparimﬁnta. . . ‘

Every year m¢ra and mura animala are maﬁa far
experimanta. ﬁaaa and 1335 juatifieationfar thair uaﬁ
is; being: “almd («am witmw {aha (313113 raw-g myerimnta
ﬁhat are geing prammtaﬁ in soma guartara). w$'mnﬂt ‘
abtain lagimlatian'again$t neeﬁlaaa animal guffwring in
laberatariaa'naw'ar ww will never get it“

Yam prabably have regaived a capy of ﬁha mﬂat
recent Enfovmﬁtiom Report of th@ Animal welfare Ingtiiute,
but as it deala with same 0f the eriticiams Gf tha bill
made by 3pponanta on both sidea, I enclasa a ¢0Py~

'with kind regards and much appraaiationa'

ginceraly,

Searetary~Treasurer

 




MRS. EDWARD P. BYRNE
Humane Education
1542 Wih‘on Rd., SK 9—3350
Tacoma 66, Washingfon

:v ». "

I;

x "L" ‘1! 5-,; r41
m :1» ,y’ﬂy‘gﬁ \2/
1.3), ' " L

 




 




July 8, 1360

«33, 3313311133,

" 3.33.. 33 “ ML L11 3 - 331:1: 1n LLplyLLLL;
TLHL $333 JLLLLL 333103133 33L 1303 3:31 LLMLLLL.

1"-

3331333 3r 13 3 333 33L 31 3333 333 LL 3333 Lh3
f.) [.3 a» l -“ i a 1 ' .w . , . r “54‘ «a L. . - 4, 'Y‘, .1 _, _ ‘7.
L.Lh.<LL 3 LL33L ”LL33. 11313 « ‘LFL L3 ~33; L3331

L3

1L;i' Li L » 1L;;.,L1L L 3 ELLLLI 13111; (”L3113L1 L17 ” 1.111ii “'4LLL :11: L113:
173 1310113. .. " LING £16313] Li: LE); 1131. 131300 3316,3313,
*3 33333 x. «m°’* L1L11 3‘33“ 3131 L, "33 3 lLLLLL

a
. “L

33 33. ‘ 3w4“ 3 v“ 3, 3 LLLLEL 31333? Lo taL L133

3334333“ J333333333, 3333* HLLLMLWLL 31f33tlve.

pus-'35:
a” 1

3
6L5

5'"; {1.3 {“1 C1“

L ,. “L L, . L m, h . “.321 .11 . [2,317,
3’31 3“ 31333 133 LLllOLLn$ 11333 meut

, , ‘2‘ 413;)“ {1}“! ‘3 4!

ML 3

1’3 p3 ”on 3111 LLLL 3333 313333333033
33?;111x FL. ‘WULLLLLLLL LLLLLLLMLLaOL 333 323331 LLLLL ELL31H318
3:333 13.9 3«L» f333333333 LL $113333 3331133Lxm33 333333
~33 LWLLV3 L23.’ 33333033 333 M ~33v3333L311v3 HLLLL*

€3P111”LML3 L " =~ LLLLILiLSLLLLL 1,“LLVLL 3131.3 LLLMFULLLt

13 m 3“ 3 L133 1“ LLLVLLL 333L33333~3 33ff33133 in

Mr&.&
"""A

' ‘ ’ - L 3"“, 1 L "3771’?
73 ”13133133. 1333~333 33333333 3 waﬁ 333 3,3. 13L37,

3311311 333 33313 1133 33 33333 ”Hut L;h3 ”3‘3313 333
3331? 3333 L 313 11333 La w33icLl LL @3333 333 33033313

LLLLLLL 333 ngrad 33331€33 L313 333211 13133 La LL31?
3333t333 333 3333333 3331133 33333? 3333 to LJLFOPt L33

LL ’3 211 S g

1i?“
h.
‘3

5:11. if: m
2<1133 33333313 13 an .3133 ,L 21; UBQCtMLﬂt;
*13 33 3331133 L3 333 a? 33s~ L3 333C:

L v 12-11.; ~OL'1 P 3333331

h
L;:

Mr?
1:" “1"“11‘

«LEA».

ooicwunaen»garcoattaﬁittloczﬁovu0.06.0000000

in 3313333L of LhL Lﬁiﬁl 33V3
L ;%3333hout Lhw gaunt ,LLuL none
5;. 1333333 3333 6303 elfQLLL 3111
11333 OHL in the JWO t 0? 1n LLML
”3 writL. LILLSL 13L uL 3303 if

V“ .1

'tLuLL 1 33 030103133 the two

,k-‘ 1.

 




J‘s-nos

E; kWJ' WW and cm}
i.

/ (‘1 A Q )WWwa M

SLUQ‘ML “129 «l “"
(PCUJ aux )hA.

Mrs. John Mu lholland

600 West 115 .S’treet
NEW YORK 15, N. Y.

«5&2;— vii-“Ii {VK Ckmwmw \M (K( (U.L.,i .C‘ () ((16%?) RN.

.jxm W ‘ - 7» ‘ my?

LQMLI \«squ. h... D \-\;'1,q:£

 

\kﬂkak ’KJ-MK .11.. vk C(oa Em J
i

X'Skciat. LC K L4... :- *—
I

W , ; ‘3'; l , W
S Maui“: A/kxk’ '1“th- 9 [PM amt Ll:
muia CK UNUJ\ Ida/Marv».- \-*’V~»-..Q... m \x\,.§\“1uk«Q‘;('

5‘Ag‘ M\ACWL CL IQ’MKJ WA WW {

M Cal/k [Tax )kwxux‘kaw I \«Kikﬁé‘ﬁ‘ MT 55 {k‘ in 4/

 




,i’oﬁi Li’\ (L- )K.\ (-7.6 {1...13/ ""

«g» m
a “ ,5
7n \ . «I ‘ I“ C 1,! a . ”a-“ J
‘ ‘p‘x'fkw ~ >3" ‘ .1 k. #15“ A A“ ‘4“: {53 ,c k 7’, {x _ {ﬁg-try
V» "'-— aaaaa I K4 &

3:»

1’
.f *1 " ‘ . \ g 1-, ‘
a 4 ‘ 1W» 3W} \ M M ,..
:1: ., “MW-l 'meﬂ“ ’ yr <1 duh”. V” {p‘k--‘&.A»‘\¢ ﬂ

.1“ .. 7’" ' V “y'- _\l Wei-m
{Ari Vv-VMU, {Ag’ﬁmwn 33x2“... mf‘l‘mﬁ- ’\.»" L“? *& {””")”\A~v-~1<k,43/

.1 \ , ,. m” ,, :2 ‘
“)1 L’k‘w‘iw [\1‘1‘ (“x ’51? 73 (. *&“'Q;HL.~"MVX 1‘ 3. (fl

tm-‘

“1.1 v, ’1') K ~. . :1 ,> i ) , "a O? E ’ “ H , . . V ‘
.‘ ,» L, L’s/z“ .. * * ' ~ ~» ’UL . , ,
\42 k f k k 1,» ,l s (1%.: \. t x.-\ t (/Kﬁ‘t" ,/ ( f (461‘
. "N

w

(t + i «7. 4’ : ‘5‘ ‘ ' ‘ .
A k 5k K, , ‘ "K, IN» .i -i-‘ k. _) (7: ”it . 'Imsw-s“ y kill“? C [I g;»_\ ,
j! ..

4'

2;“: ‘ T f. ;: just”... “4/
4, | x ‘ :f, , K .1. ( ’ . a“
‘2 "“" ‘“'" h ' ' ’“ " [PHI ( {ML/‘3 C x

\x"1rké\.7i....ﬁ SW: 4 (M 9 V) fun ,1; Cé‘i,_.,a-~-w.,

“a

\

I ‘5 ‘5
"J

 




MOtt Haven mu
ifm‘ﬁ'hs‘bﬁ

- Nev r|4 st

HOME EDITION‘BRONX ‘-
373 East 148th Sheet. BRONX 55. NJ);

J uhn 19,1960

MrsF.Pauline Mulholland,
600 W.llSth St.”
New York,25,NY.

Dear Mrs .Mulholland ;

f
The matter of legislatiye enactment of a bill to insure humane-if
slaughter of animals Lfs so far removed {from my normal field
of operation,1 do not eel Justified in comentmarticularly
since I have no special knowledge of am subject..

However,as you Know,every Tuesday I runia column of letters from,
readers ,under their own signature,on a .,,variety of subjects.
It Yyou care to drop me a line on thee matter,I shall be glad
boguse it in the n ext available columhnwhich would be June 28}
a bit late,I am afraid,to influence an y action by the current.
Congress,but not absolutely hopeless..

Ber : ert

Sincerely. .

 

W m. , ‘
1mg, CC ”aka ‘3th E?

\m. W3”? swwuﬁ mm Jéww W3 amaze
SW1 (rut ’Qa.b~.n61m\ MWng WC- mei/t Qua Fates-Ia“! 4—

 




July 18, 19&0

Bear ﬁrs. ﬁraemer,

fhamk you far year letter of July eighth. I
understand yaur natUPal'reactior in assuming that becauae
the beagles in tha E306 and Drug nﬁmlnistration are
cruelly.manflned tmis wauld mean that the~ﬁapartmant of
Health, ﬁducatlan anﬁ telfare Wmuk: not anfarca a faéeral
law ragUlring humane traatment of QXparimantal animals;
ﬁcwever, if we useu assumptiana lika,that, wa woulﬁ have
had to refuse to allaw tha Department of “grlculture'to
antarce tba humﬁne slaughter law on the grounﬁa that thay
were slaughtering lnhumanaly at Laltsville.

the tnztm of tﬁﬁ lattar ls, howavar, that 33,;g
.tgg lack‘gg a law which laada to crualty both in govarnmemt
aepartments and elsewhare. If Only ma man gat thﬁ Scopar‘
bill anacteé into law, ansuring ita firm antarcamant will
be a relatively simple matter. "

ﬁgain’ raturnina to the numtne‘alﬁlgmtar law, fa?
purposas of illuttration, at you are.n0‘aaubt awara, thﬁ
army sent out a directive which might.have wrackﬁﬂ it, tut
aemator humphray want'to the £150? with tuch & ViaﬂrOUE
ant determined apeech that th@ army't diractive was prompﬁly
withdrawn. I enclasa a copy.of the lﬂ?ormation ﬁaport 0f
tha animal talfare Inﬁtitute with WﬁiCh I alas Work. On
page thre: ysu will finﬁ this flnt speech of banator
autphrey'a.

By the same token, shauld thsre be any htaitancy
in enforcing the Coopar bill once enacted into law,~you
may be sure that étnator Gooper and the other noble and
humane aenators and.Representatives who are apansering
the measure would insiat upon its strict enforcement.’

I note that you exyreas the wish that thalalll
be rewritten so that enforcement can coma from a sansitlve
agency. If you have a saggestlon as to what agancy you
have in mind, you'racommendation will be welcomed. In the
meantime, I earnestly nape that you Will support the bill,
for otherwise the scientific opposition is sure to ﬁafaat
it and the animals will be left as tmﬁy are now, unprotected.

tincerwly,

_aecratary~ireaaurer

 




Box 298
Woodland Hills, Calif.
July 8, 1960

Eadams Benelmans and Stevens,

I have been so grateful to you in the
past for keeping me informed on upcoming humane leg»
islation, but I cannot help you by supporting S. 5570.

I do not think of myself as an extremist, but I do not
feel that ,if as you have stated, the enforcement of
the law will be in the hands of the Department of
Health, Education.and welfare, that this law will help
in anyway to alliviate the plight of the hapless labor-
itory experimental animals. Eor it was and still is the
Dept. of H,E. W. who is responsible for the conditions
under which the beagles live in the FDA Building. There—
fore, regulation in the hands of this department will
mean less than nothing, unfortunately.

I hope that you will attempt to have this
law rewritten, so that enforcement can come from a sensi—
tive agency that will not be part of the Medical Research

family.

Sincerely?

/ A

Mrs. .. R. Kraemer

 




:‘EFS o 3; «u 1:3" . FOIFd
2765 VLLnLn Terrace
JLL3LLLLV111L 5, Florida

ELL? Trs. Ford,

TILLLL LchpL our apOlﬂ’iQS for dLlLy in ﬂ0p133n“ LL 3
vLuL k1n3 lsLLLP LbLut LL Lopvw L111 10L the LLLLLL LLLLLLLLL
.01 prLriantal Ln1mala. ALL. Bamelmans {LLL I try LL3LpL113
chL'oLhLL in LLL LLLLLLLLLL Lmount of LLLLLLLLLLLLLL 1LL01VLd,
Lnd LLL tripL have interruﬁLa our LLdLLVLrL.

I hLVL 3uLL133n33hLd LLILJLL L LLLiLL Li replies 3L
LC1LLL1LLL who assert LhLL the Hooper bill, if LLLLLLL, HTle
"bring Lur LLLLLLLL nLLLly.LL L LLLLLLL111" LL LLL LLnLludL
their Lamplainta: ”I L1LLLLL1T LLpL LLLL you hLVL LLOLiVLd
LuffizienL LLLLLLLL LL LLLL'LLL'L“11 LL LLLLL of yLLL LLLLL 1n¢
LLL {LLL L31L L111, ILL LLLLL ”LLLL VLL L1LL M lpin Lo LLTLLL
.Luan LLffLW3nL Lna LlsLLy. “I LLL’L LiLL LLL L1LL LLLLLL

LLLLL3LLL 1L3” LLLLL ILLLLLL, LLL LLLLLLL L ULJLLIQ LL
IntLLoLLLd 1L LLLLILL L 313 of LLLi L1LLL of ORE LqugglL
get-LLLLLL LLLLLLL1LL'TLL ILLLLLLL L LRiMﬁlﬁu ‘

1L to year LL LLLL3LL LLLLLLL ﬁr hﬂmLﬂQTEP33n1Ld810nS
upLLticipLL1Ln in LhL legialLLILn, 1L LLLLL V‘TT 11331? 3h33
BuCh‘ﬁ LuLgLL L3 on Lﬁllb ”@Stﬂthd LL LLL LLLL3LLL LL LLL ,
measure. L L111 LLLL LL up LL LhL LLLLiLLLL LL LLLgdL LLLLLLL
0L nLL the L331 Shﬁulk be LLLLLLd 10? :L3 LLLpLLL LLLLLL
erLrtinp 1L LL the TLLLLL LL ELLLL LT? pP3TLntﬁtiV63 LL L
LhLlL to be VLL Ld Ln. It is my Lpinion LLLL L1LL,LL LitLouL
‘Luch Ln LLLLLLLLL the LLLLLLL L111 pLLviaL LTTLLL1VL Lnd much
needed pLLLLLLion fer LXLLLﬁmLLLLI amileL. The Vital LLLLL
is to fight thL WLL Lening LLLLLLLLLL Which L311 unﬂLLL3L31y
be affered.. :uch LmendantL L131 w3mmLt GLLLLILWL LL Lide LL 7
avoiﬂing 1nd1v1dual responsiLility In LLL LLLL 01 LLiLLLiLLL,
in ILLLring thL huanL LLLLLLLLL LLL up by the bill, and 1n' '
.making it L ply only 0 LLLL and hLuLiL LLLL 3 than the
plann3n 01 L LL 1anLL. Then is LLL time when TVLP“ huanitnr1LL
muLL join in the LLLLLLIL to LLLVLLL a LLOLLlLLL L111 1r LL ,
I 33” pagsed. S 3§70 LL 1L LLLndL is L Linnly LIfLLLiVL huanL
mLLLLLL which maul: LLLVLLL incLlculLblL Lmounts of animal
,LITL ‘3n" if only it can LL @ﬂub LLd 1L LLL :QLLL of LLL po‘erful
LppoLifion.

LincLLLly,

SLLLLLLLLLTLLLLLLLL

 




W 22M, W '

" 21.7.4141»; A

M @7W11:4¢9[.
W QM Maﬁa—WA.W4U
WW Zia/3.170 ng/
WM,EW7WVZJ% W

MLMM WW I54.a7:é—a
Z¢m¢&% “>Z/Zz//€e/»M

' -’ ' >146: >460

”Wmﬁ f”

 

 




 




July 20, 1960

Dﬁgr ﬁisa Brawn,

Thank you very much for sending us copies 0f
tha letters Which have appeared in thw Christian Scian0@ ﬁmniﬁm¢
.I had not seen these and welcoma the Opportunity to comment on
them“ ﬁhank yom,too,for sanﬁinm tha 300& letters from the
Senators‘from Masgachmaettao

YOU“? 0m attitude i8 {Sharia right; arm“ that is”; to
ac what is heat for animal walﬂ§r@.1t la campletely Ouﬁ of the
questian $0 abolish amimal exygyimﬂntation‘ Every year, more
millionibf animals.are usad and more hundyadﬁ of millians 0f
dcllars 0f taxmpagera’ monay are pouraé intoregearoh.usinﬁ * ‘
animalg, dﬁﬁyite hha apinion to the<3on$rafy ofgntiwvivisieuiog
groups. Tha mnly way that wa can possibly gelp twesa amim§n§tan
‘ﬁraﬁect them.aaainst abuse and meadless sulfeving is to 5&ﬁn,
for enactmant of a Pagmlatgpy bill. ‘ ‘

Unpopular thouﬁh it la with aéherants of the

' * *' ‘ , - '” M disal'ﬁaaearch and

lines put guy by the Natldnal Society.;ar a .

the Natiomal.Antimviviaection Society, the Cooper bill gommenda
itself to thoughtful, kindly peepla in avewy walk 0f life, and.
if we do mat weaknn, I am confident that we can get it anacted

into 121?“ '

' The stat$M@nﬁg by tha Wonitor‘s carrespondenta
‘that the Britiah quelty to Animals Act does net pvmtact animals
15.not in acccrdanca with ﬁne facta. I have pevsonally inspected
laboratOrieg in England and in our country, have halked with
scienﬁists in hotﬁ countriaa, with tha Chief Inspeetor~who
is regponsibla fer aﬁministaring tha British Act, and I can state
poaitively that if given the choiea between being an experimental
animal in Britain or tha United Statea, I would choaaa Britain, .
a hundred to ans. I have never seen nor read 0? abuses in Britain
such as I have seam in th@ United $gate3. Britain is net perfect,
but it is enormously in advance of us in this regard. To scorn
and denigrate the law that has done an much.to prevent cruelty
to laboratory_animala is to help tum National Saciaty for Medical
Research.ho maintain ﬁhe status quo - no protection for animals
in laboratories.

I Shall write to the Monitor, and I hope that
my latter will be published. If you Shoulﬁ 339.1%, wmuld you be
kind enough to let me know as I do not see the Monitor-regularly
much ﬁhough I admire it, ‘

w , With many thanks and truating that you wixl
continue to encourage enactmant of the $0 badly needed Camper bill.

 




July 20, 19§O

Dar: W153 5'5 :31 rmm,

, ﬁhamk you way? mumh f9? aawﬁinﬁ ”3 9991a3 a?
thﬁ 11'??? ‘ttﬁii‘s Vﬁf‘iiﬂil. . haw; appe Mad in $71216“, ﬁhiﬁﬁﬁ. $3 via-3'1 9:03.52 33.35:; ﬁstsmiﬁﬁh
I haﬁ mat seen thasm anﬂ welcoma ﬁhﬁ Gpﬁortmmiﬁy hm cough '
them. Thgmk 70mgtnagfey ganﬁinﬁ thy iﬁﬂﬁ‘lﬁtgﬂrﬁ from
Sematorﬁ fygm‘ﬁaagachmsettso

'ﬁour own attivméa 13 the riﬁhﬁ 9mg} ﬁhat 13 to
ﬁa wﬁat ia‘begt for aﬁimal wwlﬁﬁya.lt ig completaly omﬁ a? ﬁha
quagtion t0 abmliaﬁ.azimal expewimmnta%imu. Evayg yaar, mama
millicnﬁaf animals awe uaad and mnra hmnﬁwaﬁm mf millianﬁ of
dallars 0f tax~payera' maney aye pamrﬁd inta wagﬁaycﬁ maimﬁ‘
animala, agapita $hs opinimn.t0 thﬁ~caaﬁrary a? amﬁiwvivigection
araups. Tha cnly wag that~Wa mam pagﬁibly hﬂlp tmwﬁe animalﬁ and
prmtact them againgt abuse anﬂ naedlasa ﬂmffawing is ﬁe fiﬁ%%
fer enactmant of a Pﬁgmlatmry bill.

ﬁnpopular thmuﬁm‘it is with ndhwranta mf tha
'linas puﬁ Gut by the Eatiﬁnal ﬁmciﬂﬁy f9? Mﬁﬂical ﬁagaaymh amﬁ
the National antiavivisactimn Qaniaty, the Sonya? bill GGWMﬁﬂdﬂ
itself to thwughtful, kinﬂly ywople in aver? W&?E 9f lifﬂa and
if we do net awaken, I am.camfiden% thaﬁ we can m@% it amacﬁad
into law. , - I ‘

‘ ‘Th@ atatgﬁaum my ﬁhe,wonit0r'g cmryaapmmﬂamﬁa
that tha ﬁritish Grumlty ﬁg E :wmla Amt daeg mmﬁ pymtwat animals
is no@ in accoyéamaﬁ with thm zaoﬁs. I hava pﬂwgmmally inﬁgaatad
labormﬁozﬁaﬁ in mymm 511-15; :22"). mm 0:32.1ntry, haves; tallmﬂ m ”Eh,
ﬁcientigta in both aﬂumkri@$,'with tha Shiaf Kngpectgijhg
is rmgpansibla fer aiminigterinﬁ ﬁhe'ﬁritish ﬁat, anﬁ I ¢&n*$tat®
positivalg ﬁhat if xivan ﬁhm chmica batwman‘being an ﬁxpwwimamﬁal
amimal in Britain a? ﬁha tnitaé Sﬁatea, I would chaaga ﬁrigainj

Iva hundrad to Que; I hava navar Sean nay waad a? ahuaas in Britain
such as I have seam in t,q United-ﬁgatag. Evitain 13 mat yeyfact,*
hut it 13 ﬁﬂﬁﬁMQﬁﬂly in aévanca_mf mg in thiﬁ'vamavd. ﬁe mcaﬂn
mag dexigrata the law that hag ﬁana so much to pwevant,crmwlty
to laboraﬁory anmmala is to help t;m ﬁaﬁimnal ﬁcaiwhy fay Waﬁical
ngaarch to maintain tha atatug qua a n9 pwcﬁectian for animala
in lahoratcrias. ‘ ._

1 shall write to'ﬁha ﬂamitor, mné I 109% that
'my lattgr will $9 publishaﬁ. If you 3h0m1& see it, wmmlﬂ yam be
kind ﬁnoufh ta let ma know ag I'ﬁa not a,e ﬁhw ignite? ragmlarly
much theuxh I aﬁmire it. " ‘

With mamr thanks and truating 13mm you will. > ‘
continue to encouwageAenactmwnt of tha,ao waﬁky naédﬁd 30099? bill!

 




444 4W54441y‘

4334444444 ”“7;
44“44415444]4444“444‘W4154~4u
r; 7; 4 t ”'2‘, 44 4.
(k2533913’g .:.WW ”$424 44:34::3511WEW‘F3JI '
4 ”44 444 4414 444-44 445' 444411M4nt, 44
41 14 “44“ 44444444 444444 449 ”44 4444 4944

4%.?“-;411W44 14141345 44 444 ' 744*
44144 045j444434J3.q' 444 544%!
.4304 44444444.mﬁ4ia,i44 544%,

444 4; 44‘441 4444 444 h444
431,44444 41444 440444444415
4 444 ‘44444, 445 iv 50.4 ' i‘ 4
44154 45 414 44440443 4045444

" 54444.3 444.44 444314 44 4-4 44:; 1144444441 4444114441 13440444411
4~4~ 4444454441444. 44'444444 ~111, on 444 wthcw
4444,,gg 450344514 4444446 44 44444 44444, 1444444 14"
4w 44 44 44 4~wmi4"5441144&4f 44401444 54 p4044 4444

4444434.

4'“
'f
'44.?“

4.4,
r4?-
: 4 .

1‘54 ff"

44»_

4‘ 3

4
4‘44““?

if”:
:4}:

14,417 '

4’14Wltgﬁ‘ﬁ
47,414 '55 .%“: 541W
4 4. .4

‘ '4444044414144
’441 M4~44444M54

44:4 4,; 4 4 -
444

121513

:7

F134
4 [3

" r '.
4.4

5'?”
may
W

4

5* '%

4-43 44
44"

14444 444 4444 41 m4wm4 44444244441“ 444'445444
4111 14 444 4444444 34 65554444 14441>445 f5_4 £404 4
4441044” 4444.444 45444444.” 444 4444444441414444... 445" 44441444, 1“ 444‘;
444 14 4 44404444441 W511 445'444~44444 14n’5. ﬁmt 4041
‘4“44444414‘544 44~44444444144'n5 444 4454414 5.4'144444404544
‘ f 4444 4413 444 4445c 444444- 4440 444 14 4144143 ‘
Vjﬁhﬁiiti. 45:3 rniostY‘ bf} .4444'34442351 A8133 {11"}. a) tag V

441 41444 444p444 ._ 44 an 444 5445 1441 '

' 444 1444 445 M; 4 4-414 40 4444 b4 >443 th4 444444
VI‘WW‘Jﬂ 3.444444% 44453 44.2441 (3’4? 444341341401” 44444 1442444411"; ’
bkgw a. OquQmle; 45'44p14 44 444543‘44410444u41444 443h4
'hswu 144444445445 44’4444 'tn*f451444. “.444 44144441
Mm 4441 an $454 is 44414444 54 144 4444'444444 44444~o4-
444 445 41.1615449 144 454444 44544 44444 544pnwt, 4 4444

‘03" 1'11 14:311. :1: 41101053433...

4 14 1404 fsrwarﬁ 44 4444 mg 5444 you 44044 ﬁhe bill.

354444414”

 




IILA9V9 A99; ewmgy, and 90 11
LA9 99197 in 9AALeriA; your

int9rerting 9:9 L¢Airywiive
' Vthlﬂ .9 immort—
V Lie 910999910; “
'lquoa 9 w: “9;, of eAforceu9x“
Ablrﬂlf Aﬂnarate from the Apoqr“ﬁ*
W be evolved and included iA
99 are not cOAEAoAted wiLA'9
LA9 A9tcalfwﬁatch ALLIl“ 911 e”«

 

, ,, '_, d, a '2';
136' L {315i -_.. "I
.1“!
\J

Act :9 _ A. » >_’J :c 97 itsak> V0199L'5
90991A99139 *F» 9;? renhgﬁ bIoL9LLIO" 91999
Lo LiﬂthllG 'g| ’ ' ﬂue IJLHllL‘,’N6 [9109.

do not a r $997 otA9r T?JHLL i9 9

if a de ourt ; or Owk”ﬂi"ZUlO bolIc

98%i- A KiA‘QlV and n1d99999mﬁﬁnﬁ Ad;

EEAtor in the “ebﬁvtm9nt oi 1.91LL AduC9UiOA
9AA welf :199 AL AL be rwplac d 99 AAv 9199 by
099 cowplctel/ Aub 97V19AL co mechAl 19999399
Since ”cIunlcy — 9AA ”Aec9~ L910?” - A99 EO
many AeIIAILIOAA th9r9 999:9 no 90999919 accord
here, 9iLA9I. '

I feel tAaL the importance of tbi9 bi31
So ”feat tAat 19099 tim9 choulc be 991m A to
udy LAL \LIA ouL 9A GﬂfOECL‘ ”“ﬂb procedure
L_Ic w\ould be Iar more looA—Aole—pvoot and
99 991199 thereby 9A 19999 917 valuxcl prece—

dGAUX 1:99:9ure such A procedure could b9 iouA«
LAouﬁh it would be blazing a trail.

 




.. u

f. H, m , .3 . .W ., .t -, ,. _: 3,. M ._ 3, 3 .3 x . ' 3..
in Habit/.13. U Q .L- CA 1.7.4.. 2:: « 7 b -LOilitg: .r' L) ill L t k .. if: 1. O 3.7 1.1:

\J

"' T0 "-7. ' ,, ,_.., -,, a ,i': , ,., '5' - ”A , N .1, 4. .. .:..
.Li 3.3.1.133 M61 33:03.33: , 3.. e3» ware , 3 352.02% .,

.n .71 ' w
3 3m day.

K

o‘
1

~ ‘ “‘3 .3 “7h;
{1; .1: jfL‘ngk 734k” ﬁMW \)

i
.41.... w.

" T ”j " ““3 '. '} “I 37.3,, 3-. 777'
,_ - v" " 1*- a; r 3-: : 7 “a . .
l 1., .1131- n]. E: u JIJ :1. 3L,- 1;]. ‘ £2,333 3:71 :3 U '1"; 3?

 




213-35 ‘

Thank yon very much 32F §2oir lett2r. I am glad that 202
.12t 22 3222 3222 32 332 222023 th2 Comp22 bill. It is 2”d3ffic21t
piaea of 1233 latlyn, 2nd many people have misre2ﬂ It. £2 have 
.3222.2 Qv2r 33.2 «2”? 71” W2th th2 3t2nuﬁﬁwﬁ "ho 3223323 323 3nd 30*“
are ;3 2 222.2323 ta 223W€2 gim 3 an? aha 23t3'If "GU 21v2 you?-
00333” (:32 3:3 22 .32" ,2; :302,‘2g2....-.11 22.3.22 VH3: :33: 1.2: 2.2.2 322 53:22:23: 2::2'2 2 that
”3223 and 2?32. 3232323.“, 1ﬁ22, an 23223 far 8“*€RIIII” 32 Search
.2232333 22. can, 32233n2 2r t222323 _ 22I'Wo avenC2 a? payment
vnﬂow 33w 220v.”1”223f€L312 2*‘2232 by 22 any 32323 or
32232222 .123? 2: :h2”32332u Vtat: ~2v02222nt 30.2 n? pcrson' V
WhQ :32. v2 “22m 32~3m'3~2232233 2223222323.32222 or 222 Hing
un1223 222 222 on 29232n: for or 22223V332‘3he 32322 has a
C2rtﬁf 2232 of mp132322 223th th3.2 323.3 T332 muat be read
‘EGFL For 2233 .nct u“ 23'23263 2333223 22 V02,nav 23 tba
‘;~0030uﬁ“§ 22y 232p€nc 22*22v 22 3 Cwﬁtif222u. 232202p133322.
'Th2 2329232322 03 2 .2rt3f.223 23 F222132222_32 2 Wﬂﬁﬁm‘” weaqurag
' _Wh3¢h VQ233 322p2r3r223 23'2223p3 paJanL 22 22 2222.2’ah "rant. ” .‘
“hv . VWUQUJUN 23 3‘u2wt2f~2322 U2~2039332u02'mv“22 322 c2 2021-.530n
‘ _;222r22'““222'23d 332 2223323227 03 3232221 23: 2rw fram “ ”
2532333332 D”03223._fbﬁ'wiﬁhdvawal M j2 £220 231 “2223 from
“2:53 223 .232H2 w0212 n2 2 QGV2L2 2323123 bath 2222222 of
of @2332 land pwartiyr 3t would Invalve, and.2lso
» 230 22u222322gv 33 WQ2 Id mean 3.-n 2025 games 222,201322322
€203.33 Va 30‘ 3322) 22222323021 332.23 332202322... ;, ' ‘ U

Ina-”Gounr'bm21 32 mm? a 22323221‘9322u32, bunaaar 33_2221d
303 22 222 3b12r3~ d2 222‘rn . 23322222d2r21 22322301 23: ”“
won 2h22‘ 333223 wIth: 2.3 2n9232~333 an 2tates' rﬁght 2. It is
“an the game principla as tae £2man~ “l ughterg3233 2232 persons
who 332... 2-23.22 222.3 2 22» 3221133 332 Wﬁt‘mw b2 (x32L32d to
comply with numane 2t2ndards With ~c.pect t0 an322133'mhv penalty
WhICh 3h2 mcpor bil l p202302 2 33 012 2“?" :33 pwacflce gain,ﬁ to
mean 2 h2av22r fine fhm 0332332 3 in some ca 2:2 that.32 2220223
under the French Igaw, bacau 2 many individual r222 amohinrants .
total 22 much 25 ~90 000 00, 2n.d thﬁs, axraIv, is a coma ﬁeraol
83.33.13 60 10.... ~32: a

n 'I' think that thé 32cr¢tarv 23 def3tn, ducatiwm and Walfare
- wouId b2 cowovtont 30 2222222 the Hoopér bill; I think this because.
-aof th2 experience I h2v2 haﬁ with them While I was workin for ‘

the 223212 uaed.2or t2232'by the Food and ﬂwua Adm nlBtPatiOH:

 




l
.-

Egea
an

AIZMA

*d‘
" '3': :2

1
L,

10'
A?

,.
,1:

£

ﬁlﬁ
A“
L;
3

i
t
'1»-

."_?,f“_‘-? ~?S'

i

cavemen?
v

1'55"»
u A A
-_ "x "
U. I] V

i
s
“;
I:
~QK issue x“

h

._ 3‘2.“
.1». 3.1.1.;

*7
In J. 1‘

.ﬂ“

1,. .g ,
u "1 .

i

:a- .
L

m)

c. (.,
a...

EVQR

*c.comfi

‘5“ .‘ l
’ 5. 1..
,2- .a.

ML
.,., 4,.
Uﬁu

’w
’51“! 1‘: 7.4

w .
T
v.
a.
.

1'"!
v

7‘

J’-
i 53 3 113 g.
. ,3

,1“.

16 t'

.ﬁﬁ“

..
1")
L2.
3441
“‘s
,

3' H
1
~6-
. L1 *4
3")
u

JQQO

{‘4
" J'

't“? J
r) b 5.4::
13 3 m

1.5 is“.
r . ,4 ’" ‘L 5"
M:
v
\

“’f‘:
u»
a
_ ,Iy" k»,

{:3 7b

“5'

‘1‘. 4 ‘
Jr.

a um '45
M3:

“H- v: 1‘3 1":
“a
1
‘4!

“I"?
I

, ‘
x} '7

iﬂﬁh'
r
1

.Fﬂ”
&

ﬁx
5

\3 .
W“
A
w
JW
3
JAa

A

r’.‘ W

k ' M.
J.

fa‘

W

R 5

‘.'.-““-
A-l.‘ ,
at

A!

*1
«n.
J
K“ ' “at? ,
‘1
‘
VB:
3

a
, i. y
(1 {

...
't

r

O

t 0*
ﬁ‘:#
t
'5

‘.,.,';f . *-
tg'vri. ta
GQPV a“

1 v1» } «r

*3
A.

ﬂap?

.19
i

atiam

 




Charlton 3t

Lﬁenk you eo mLeh for your letter.

I an very Litioue not to euuxnxr Lo be eettiﬁw
into a conteovep3,, beceuee we ere ell eimine at thz~
eeme objnc ive. But it etill eeeme to me that

1the laboratory bill is) Lettjolv week at its most
vulnerable point: A o1cew1o1 The information
Report of the ALI viL 7h the 1'ull tex e"rikﬁ me iL' l1
reel enoreheu lOIL. Eor there ie no penalty .L W-
ever - it none not even eose fer ee etete enLi—
cruelty lewe. Ho revoke a Certificote of Compliance
does not eeem to me very impreeeive. AS you know
the Erench government has recentl/ et’iffened their
laws to the point of e:LLr FMLlY heavy fines.

I wweh we had the attitude here that prevails
in nwlino ftr I wculd heve more hope of a humane
and orderly procedure without oompuleion. But is it
conceivable, in this day of the Sacredneoe of Science
that the Denaetment of Health, ruuc1t10 und Lelfere
would ooooo> any . perimental propoc e1 from e bona
‘fide source, vLetever i: hlth be? '1hen 17U9T,PGFHJPE
exact e nee ltv for what it .ee authoriz 7ed:

Tnese are very indeeendent Lhouohte of my own
- I have not diecueeed thie erooo::ed bill — but I
should imagine that thie uneee ineoe must be prevalent
amonunt many humane workers.

Isn't there an anewer?

Sincerelv,
\

(23
)P%LVE/EE L/vw‘ﬁ

 




April 2" , 196% ‘

the. Ethel (he ‘9'. heCer‘thy
Be): 335, 39111.8 1
Hen-133mm Fey's , hm York

3683‘ time . iitaﬁgartmrg

Thanks yet fer yew gazed letter 931’ April 17th. . ‘I agree with yea
that inepeetieu eff lahereteriee 18 viteily immatent, but I (he not
have the e “t faith in the ability hi" public View the etep cruelty in
lateratoriee. There are such a vest hunter 9f lehemteriee thet- it
is quite impossible te erghniee eemtixmel mimic: tieite t9 e11 ei‘ i
them. to refer ts your anelogy tith the timem eff Chrietieme the
um lime, it pmeeihiy might be; time that ii.” iii. gainful eigeemimmte
were dame in em amme and melt net be dame mmhere hut in em ehemhp
than 803%? m‘mtectigm it? an imam eiaulti Wentneliy emit: ehhut . Eat
the itemhee volume 933‘ research. teaiey reekee it hemeeihle t0 teem
my geezer 3:1 “gzuhlii: ecmzt my cm "the Izm‘ititmie hi." experiments: which
are taking place every hour- ei’ the ' they. the may my, in my hemiem ,
t0 pmvicie rmenmeble pratettiuri fax" any smhe‘thm timi Humbert (if the y ,
cemﬂeee animals meet it te 51’333‘ti ttte legiehitiem eete’hliehihg cieiimite '
mriz'zcim},,ee of hitteneneee , ftxzthg; the meemmeihility an etch imiivicitml
experimentem fer the treetmmt :33? the emirmle he meme , pmvidimg; fer ‘
unmmvneeai iirxsghctimn by c teethizt ﬁrmrthmiel mitt) mew-Ber t0 retake €31“
sumamzi empty- imam ere? licemee to , emmm‘imemt en emimzsslh . ihie mediation
ie me with}: it have reached ﬁfty eight yeeme 0i” imteueive attriy hi the
problem, cemeeltetieh with eemitleee Examine meritem end eeimtiete,
visits te lebemtmriee in this cemtr’y his} in inglenzi where mach leggw
ie‘letien hers been in effect fer ailmet a watery end where the “amount
of mine]. suffering in lehemteriee it ee etrikimeﬁy reeueed es Gem—n
pered with em}? GGWiLry. The bill tee With yet refer here not yet m
introzhmed hut it late mm the emmity of imth the hatihnal Seeiety fur
i‘ieciicel Research me} the hetiemel fimtiﬂivieectien Seeiew. “their
egmeeent in appoeing thie hillie em inciieetiem cf how much it is
needed. he emu as the hill 1e intreciuceﬁ, yet may he eure that I
will let you knew, and I eterneetiy hope thet thie .deeperetew theater}
meeeure will We your support. It will need the huh-port of every
mmene hereon in mm county? te he gmeseci age met the opeoeitiem it
M11 receive frem time the. exmmment on enimle , and the want new
blanche with regard to the pa in they mm inflict. ‘ ~ '

Sincerely,

 




0%

 

gﬁmoe 4
"7‘?’ M

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




; ‘Maylé, 1950

DAAP'MrA. AAllAAlAy, ._ I _

V Thauk yAA vewy mmnh fer AAnAing AA AAA
AAAAIAA Ahich yAu pAApAAAA. lA mAAA have bAAn a
, ,vAry Aamandin; p1AAA of Work, AAA 1 greatly AAApAAA
~1"}.31'A affArt AAA AAA 1AAA 1;A‘. 4. . . .
. TharA 1A AA muAh sufferinw 1A AprWAAAnAAI
1’ labarawriam 31: A111 AmA AtIWIwndfma ANA A AA brim?
5AbAuA any pIAAAAAKAn 1AA AAAA» A11AA1A. BAA I.Ah1nk 1A
beansedonai hAmAA111A1AAA AAA willing AA AAA  1811§ .
ArgAAAAAAAvAA AAA ALA1AAAAA AAAAAiAA A1 AAiAAl V
6”$61&1ﬂ11&biﬁw pAI~A1. AA 111 A1' hAA if AA AA1Ak
WAFGHI funAAAAAAAA puprAA,- prevvztimn A? C”131ﬁy I
A“ An 11, mucu A? AAA AA11 {A eh? AAA bAing Emma; 303A 1

fAnim/ A1*ﬁ‘3 AbQFAAC“193 cAn  AA AAAAA. That 1A AAA

~W.AA1 11% AA ArApAAA AA AAAAIA, AAA AA Aarnaﬁtly Maya that

'11 A111 bAzAfi ‘1 avg AA A11AA1A. Fer AAAMAIA, 1A AAA I~

_-AAAA A1 1A FAA.,AAA 6r” PAAAAAAAAAAAA AAagch, Akr AAAAA

1A~1w A1 A1 AI AffAAiAg Ahey arA AAA AnwArrAinm A;mAA 1AAA'
‘11 AA AAAriAIA llAAlA vagAA AhAy are pernebuaxlly AAafinAd
AA. IA 1A well WAAAA AAA AffAvA AA AAA AAAAA dAgA AAA Ar
'IUAAir AAAAAAAAAAAA p113nn. TAAAA AAA many AAhAr wAya, conArAvAr£A1~
fbut AAA AA AAnArovApAial AA AA A; m.AAAiblA, in Ah1ch.nAA11A53 ‘
AuffAring 1n labAiatAriAA AAn AA AAApped. I
WiAh kind rAgurdA And goAd wishea,

Sincarely,

 




406 Aragon Ave.
Coral Gables,§la.
April 28,19605s

Dear Mrs,Stevens:
'MANY thanks for your letter.

By separate envelOpe I'm mailing you copies of The A~V Maga~
zine for October,l959 and March,l960. I've marked several articles
which report recent cruel,useless animal eXperiments.

Enclosed clipping from a recentDenver Post gives details of
the cruel so~called "shock" experiment,originating at Columbia and
REPEATED many times in other laboratories. The experiment cf roast~
ing dogs slowoly to death in glass cages "to study sunstroke"
was printed some years ago by the Vivisection Investigation League,
11 East 44th St.,New York l7,N.Y. This Society ha, printed many '
leaflets,the material taken from.medical magazine It occurred in
an;Army'labaratory,in‘Washington,D¢C., as I recall. ,

Enclosed please find a booklet which I prepared in Buffalen about

24 years ago from medical magazines, to help passage of an Anti»
Vivisection Bill to be introduced into the New York State Legis~
lature . The late Mrs.Farrell, then President of the Vivisection
Investigation League, had her staff check my'MS. and added several
parts to the Challenge on pp. 2-4. The booklet was printed by the
V.I.L. Though copies were sent to many vivisectors and their de~
fenders, nobody replied satisfactorily to the Challenge.

While copying the excerpts from leading medical magazines, I was
impressed by the mnltitude,cruelty and uselessness of all the many
experiments recorded. Those I copied were only a very few of those
printed, and_of course there must have been.MANY THOUSANDS for every
one that attained publication; Common sense told me that they contribu~
ted NOTHING to the welfare of human beings.

The Humane Society of the United States has recently sent agents
into laboratories of Stanford and several other medical centers,
who disclosed terrible cruelties to laboratory animals both before ‘
and after experimentation. I believe it will try to have these pun~
ished according to the humane laws of the State, because such .
Egeatment does not in any way benefit medical research protected by
ese laws.

IF ALL animal experiments NOT benefiting REAL progress of medicine
could be eliminated by laws capable of very strict enforcement and
punitive enough to be effective, many millions of animals would
indeed be spared terrible suffering every year and VERY FEW, IF ANY
laboratories would be still Operating, even on "part time". It would
result in almost doing away with Vivisection altogether.

Cancer, even the so~called ”hopeless" kind, has been permanently
cured for many years by the Chemotherapy of Doctors Hoxsey,Koch,
Gerson and others, having had nothing to do with animal eXperi-

 




mentation, but the Cancer Societies and A.M.A. have done every-
thing possible to prevent the public from knowing this, and mil-
lions of experiments on animals are being made "to find a cure

for cancer”. In.N.Carolina a medical doctor proved that polio was
prevented by greatly diminishing amounts of CocoCola,ice cream,etc.
consumed; but commercial interests succeeded in smothering this
information, and many animals are sacrificed to "discover" antie
polio vaccines and manufacture them.

, Famous physiciand and surgeons have agreed with the late
“illiam Howard Hay,M.D. when he said:“There is no such thing as im-
munization. The body has its own.methods of defense. If it is vital
enough,it will resist all infection; if it isn't vital enough,it
won't, and YOU CAN'T CHANGE THE VITALITY OF THE BODY FOR THE BETTER
BY INTRODUCING POISON OF ANY KIND INTO IT". But production and

sale of many kinds of serums and vaccines is very profitable and
involves sufferings of a great many animals annually.

Sincerely yours,
[E{%<;a ﬁ§f f};s€%§adlta;

Mrs.Arthur Uellesley'- jf

‘ a,»

 




3‘3
-,-,5.
,erﬂ

J

< J}
am, 11.6.3.
1 .2.

1'6 1. 3::

.
)\v‘»
1: =3
i m
"« 7353.2

: army

 

 

"I'm“ i:fnriusucawm“3.2.13”;me ' ' zmamwmmmmsxmgu ,5 N . a:

 




 

The DAILY
New York,
April 18,

NEWS
3‘1. Y:
1960

By 'WELLIANI H. HENDRIX

A QULQTWJN '1 135:1“ HAS AG iTATED MANY

3.53.523“. feww'
3:11:23 in : :‘rw Ymk‘ it? who law
have 20333 qwrstiwnwié the: I):0p1i«
My m‘ g..:::bfi:: ﬂuumis :iﬁﬁcating
; rz'aéz.:u:?~. yithuut human :3": t:
likﬁiillund u:
m Ii::§)an';:i;0uez.
3.53:}, ‘
.‘51' ':':.::-: 2:33;; 39:. m 3.31:z :mxténtmn
:35 manv mumn that this: 38 2:
mm»: m :wtiw. 3‘§.:::.I:';:f:m'i:: of these
2mm: besieged 33:33 mhm‘m :zince
in: $32,231:: 1:221:23: year-.:.: ago ::.i::‘nu:.:r:t:~
Em, r this pr:.u1:';i:i':? 2:5: 2‘: terrible
zuhum nt‘ functinns 5:5 groups:
or .a::::§::>;s';-: Whijmtie Hﬁme}. m: ymhiic
.:Lm'wa? is inmwi m: aniécrueitgr
and 3:::‘:’::.!1:ir. Juana“

E‘Ifﬂ’k" :Hﬂi‘“ 213:5: 3f:‘-~.&*ctxrm
fmmx [Ezgﬁi'm had“: 3M: 3’
“2M1“: mmmmn, xiii-3’: an 34%
chm «Mann! the? n'snefr'rican 5550-
civtsr 1m P: vVumum :: i 1‘: Emit}: to
Annual» 3.2!..‘91‘.’ 35:31: Thif 0mm
piaint, uum‘r‘lz it: xupmmﬂ: 0:313,
4310 m that. 1:39;.er 3.}{..'~A, {omnié‘d
.:jr 7H: 3m? 3:: win: mi '§::<'~:‘ixz‘p:i:1*ate<i
2:: SEN" Stain"? -.,}'§, .NLW Yi‘iii'. ii: 1895
MERE}; 3333' 3.33:: {331%“9‘1213031 {if
amenity, nag i:ieviaii.:3:. rm“: the.
ym'zmsea f’m wiﬁch 33. was ft>und~
m3, by :u..:;:)p’}.-'im{' §i=‘*in.,_>; :‘imat‘urwa
5:): ﬁr-imn‘atory" vumrmwntamun
i.‘%'a:.::i: ﬁniaiing its :51}: to the;
use {J 33:: harem. 17m: :i£.f.i{':n geek;
in aezijdia’: the ASPiiiA fmm its
me. arse" 3}: 2.3: :::::::':e.

:Hhm'é, PW 2-3? -i’.":’:'~:’1'~::2‘:, Maw
31:“: :y' 2mm: and Satin: is attain»
may £313,335” Mammﬁ‘ ‘nmwﬁg the
Image“:

:HUE Owner'L‘f xx nut)“: p?‘012’i-
3536:: m human. 2: musti :tmséstmg;
{Tit 4:27 33 fig-{amen Emmi“ an the:
Manama :.::;,.:::.2::atmn.~: of the:
{mama-y :1:pp:‘::s~& vivigeeiima. Many
anizmﬁ Zawm's engage in azrssauite‘s
up»: .Ew Wham.» thingy, bag- and
3:213:24; with :: 32:333.! f:2:%t."h. I'm the
{1 Emma 21:: 0f :‘:::.::..;~ when are. not

97-53393} 37:19:13.1???

In:

I
’L'
119;:
\I
,‘:z

jeum MW is headed for juaiciai :19 termiz.:‘-its<m.

9%? getting 310mm,-

 

MINU‘S' m tzw
Many per:
animals and wm'ii in their gem-xii

 

especiaiiv miiimnt thaw undoubt
$.ch is an overwhdmimr z:':::i:>r-§t' y
Who 099030. it hmauxwwwi: 33:».-
muse they fuzei it 3:: cruei, gar--
buric, has (”.:tm'awn 33:3 tzrxert'ui:
mss‘s: if traded it; awn.- 3’::1:.2 any.
THO'iN‘JH’i‘FUL 2:330:43: em é
the sidelims hmk as: the: {ﬁg-"2::
over ‘vivii::.=cizi::z': with .:.: agoré. m'
“let‘s: 20:1“: 5.1:, the: trait-01W ”mi 12:11
Man}; are axkitm why, with 911.?
great upsmi‘a e in z-sciemiﬁn mug--
regs, it is YWKth 3311?}; to punish
:mimaiz: cme’iiy La; afﬁrm-av mum»-
thix‘m,’ that 513mm” be? 'HJ'WSuI
.\He,i
11$

Limmvvn' in :1 ML tube
its :33:
s
:

médiciﬁ vn‘dhwum
fmm uniﬁed in irmist
vivisecth‘m is. my rant/mi i
ways ta) cur: what 3:333 Lif..§f?1!§\:§
0f the greatest. names: in uriniiié
mecfiicine oppnm it. Oftur this;
(MUM?! 3:33 minted name< nf mat- f
5:321:1th 31,9; medimi gmutis who Lie-3
11mm: 0 it. 3

COM MERCIA I; iahoratorieés are
£20dz:y’s ‘wm'st ni‘feudet'éi. testing,
on lime anim 251:: m get a'txmvem

33;:

3:: what kind at (mismeti‘ﬂ will not

be harsh m: mi ’xadv’ss face, haw
nun-.3: heat 03' sold an animai can:
stand} without dying, and Mining-:33;
:51“ other equally éndefentniltﬂe put:
11:33:32: Thig type :‘:f thing :'::;'ns;£'i-
tutea: a max: part of mast-.:.: ex:
perimentaiiam {we can we“ me!
2312:: {wen t3": >312 W319 shin 13M?!
that ring/be, 'ﬁmdica! Stu dents
new} animal 163mm emmrmwnts.
wank: look with dish mu: m: the.
cmnmercizﬂ iai: enmity.

ANY‘WAY, IT’S gaing‘
an interesting iawsuit. .

Send stampe- -i. aei'f~:'a.:'i:i;:re: med -
:mw‘imt: for am: {we bmkhet :mf
anizrml cam

 

t0 be '

 




315111111, 1940

Daa5 T58.*1elleslev, 1 , - ,_ 1 - -_, .‘ -_1 .
,3' [1;nk yau 5‘53; V 15Gb -~u55 555, 555555 5055~T55 355'
:{5555153 ad by L10 100d ad Vru Admin1s 5afion5 I 55 5 int 555t5d
»ftOVS55 L11 155551 :Vou 550 2155 ”1501 50555 555 55555 555.515u5515n."
165 T 95 aor5y t9 h555 th5t V55 50 56b 5555055 0T 1531315510n
e~15 i119 - _ 5;15 h5maag 555555555”51 15bo555055,5nlma15 5h50555
' 5555 $215 tion. .1 _
' . 5 have 5555 a very Lue1cumu 555 55155155155 51355V bf
. thé Tnvlish {555155 tn Animals A .5 5T 18?6 This act,@55 Vnu .
"‘.mpnt 055d in 5555 l1t555, prehabmts.5uud11bg T52 5‘155'5115515
for the 555503 .5 of acquir1nw 555551 55111 in 5551555. Its othe
provl 1053 also 55 51 55 555 555 5T labo amery 55 H51 in fact,
this act, as it 13 admin? t555 ‘55 155 ”055 OTT15 a, 50551155t55
that 10 51155 55185 555.555  55 515111_55 LT 1 55.?1v5551~*
51515 55t105'5ociﬁ 155..,; 1» ‘ ' .. 1': -*‘ .1
_ Iver 5 555105 oi T555 55551v15155d 5555 an 115h”55d
U'manV merican laboratariaa, 1nd 1; 555555 that if {on and kur 1
huswana, 5155 h15 5555151 5555510555,'00515 5555 50555551155 55,
Vou.xou‘d be unahla t0 dmubt 5655 the 510155.5T 5515 555 T555
15111055d an 155555551V 5515515 55555 a 5V3555 5505 55 5551”5551t5'
t1 515513‘ ct of 1876 is 0555wh51515515 much 1585 5515 Th5 ammunt-
of 551m 550 T555 1111cted 55555 55 5551155 515155_1L 5515 sauntrygg"
"*. M 355 555515555 tTat 555 555 555 QT 551% 55 5155555 51111'
511.71. 51:1. v ‘7. ’15 515110511115.1101115 dc; 11555 130, 11 11.555 13115 5111‘- 1 1-15.; 0T V
tme'5T111055 0T 551m519 new 55 n5  5556 T05 5515510" thﬁn‘qu 05555'
p051535 55:5 155.51215 .105 5555 5515'5151510155m»5 '50 the 55 51055  of' ,
b515,5111~.evary MRJOP 5551 51 5051 15 the country 15 55 Ti‘ln5,mgV
515515155 ‘-5555, 555 55555 15555555 505551 in 55513 onw‘uf Them
,11515 95- 5555.L0 15155 by 555, 155101 5 55511555 15 555 5111. 1
[The. 555*nmeuu 5350 5590 T5‘5 Tu"; 55 555 5?? ‘ 451151915 515-510533
.a and The 55 “5 ch 55055555 QTTf.numbe5 0T 5515550h 15 155555 and
43.1551 555 55651w11551.lun1515.354 , ... 3 1 3 ~
. V's. ‘ V9 »“555.55551515 ,5T;712'5Xﬁ55155555w m 15555 in 5:0151051
'CX7ATQU3 51115 «115 1515515;5héni115 * LITA; 551115 ' 57 1iT‘V? V 15515f111
‘tc u5 if 505 f5 5*555 51d 5511551 5 515055 0f 550
g155165'5505553 355 ﬁOﬁL. 55 50515 55 5 ‘5505. ' 51555155 Lg 151555 ...
.55511cly the claim5 of 055 558 551.55155 i 15-5555'5555515555

5
,51
11f
3'}

1H

  50'55551 ‘1551115515 L115 551151155d.fv ' 3. .1 ' '~
f ” ’ 1 055551515 hop5 that you 5111 5~vm 551$ 5’17_5555 “55 VHS,
h5515155515n 051115 51155. 553555“ V051 p5555551‘1511L ’3 HVQHT
“555:111155 of 5551051 5955155,’515555 5555 15 5155 the 15515 5556;;ﬂ
ref-millioms'of'555ga1ch 55155115T55 550t5 tium new..1“' '"" ’ ” T

yTiﬁcerelV;

rfgﬁaretaryéTrﬂaaurarT‘T

 




ragon Ave.

4

06 A W
easel zﬁléea’Fla°

Dear Mrs,Stevens:

I was glad to write the letters regarding runways for the beagles
in the new building of the Food and Drug Administration. Enclosed 15
a letter I've receivedc

I have always greatly admired your humane work and rejoiced in
your success.

Regarding your bill to regulate vivisection: Regulation was tried
in Great Byitain and it just played into the hands of the vivisect~
orse There were so few inspectors poesible for so many laboratories
with eXperiments on animals going on nhght and day, and far too often

they were not at all strict in enforcement“

Thirty years ago it was estimated that more than 600,000 dogs were
experimented on in the laboratories of the United “tates annually,
and the ate vivisector, Dr, George Washington Crile,wrote that for
every dog used,l,000 other animals were used,making over 600,000,000
tortured every year. NOW the number must be far greater, for there
are many more laboratories and much larger Funds are given for animal
experimentation.

The vivisectors in Great Britain found it very easy to sidestep the
law by "exceptions",misinterpretations,giving misinformationjand in
other ways, Moreover,the law made humane people believe that no longer
would there be sufferinain the laboratorie and so they withdrew their
opposition to animal experimentﬁtion,WHICH WAS EXACTLY WHAT'THE VIVISECTORS
w £th .

The bill affects only those vivisectors receiving money from the U.S.

, Government(an extremely small percentage of all vivisector , and its

’ only penalty is withdrawal of government money. It does no mention pharma~
ceutical laboratories. Its administration is in the hands of the Sec~
retary of Health,Eéucation and Welfare,who is occupied with a great many
other things and might not be opposed to vivisection.

Rﬁading many page/s in m azines like "The American Journal of Physiol~
ogy? and the "Journal of EX .zimental Medicine", I found that animals in
experimental laboratories ar‘ subjected to every imaginable mutilatioﬁand
-amd-exposed to agonies beyonggdescription. The same brutal experiment is
done over and over and REPEAT”D in hundreds of laboratories.95 % of the
animals receive N0 anesthetic, and when it IS given,they are often
kept in suffering days,weeks and even months "for observation". Any "benefit
to humanity” is seldom mentioned,and when it is, common sense tells it ‘
might have been found more quickly and accurately in painless ways like
clinical observations,study of case histories,use of reason,imagination
and common sense. Examples: Roasting dogs slowly to death in glass cages
"to study sunstroke"; beating dogs on legs are thighs with many blows
"to study shock" E

 




-2-

The objects of these millions of cruel animal experiments annually
seem.to be to Spend the huge grants of money received ; to keep busy;
to get a degree; to have a paper read at a meeting or printed in a
journal; to think up some new cruelty; to satisfy a morbid curiosity
regarding the amount of abuse and agony an animal can stand.

In his book,"The Futility of Experiments on Living Animals", the
noted M.DgM.Beddow Bayly, Member of the Royal College of Surgeons,
names a very large number of scientific inventions and discoveries in
medicine,UNCONNECTED WITH EXPERIMENTSS 0N ANIMALS He also quotes from
many M.D.'s and editors of medical journals regarding the futility
and grave dangers to human beings of such experimentationo

I've seen a list of 1,000 successful M.D,3s in this country and
abroad who agreed with the late internationally famous physician and
surgeon,william Howard ﬂay, when he said that the REAL progress of
medicine has been badly retarded by the COLOSSAL WASEE of money,time and
labor on the horrible cruelties of vivisections

Innumerable cruel ,useless experiments are performed annually by med~
ical students in the United Dtates,yet "Since 18769vivisection of animals
for the purpose of ”acquiring manual skill in surgery8 has been prom
hibited by a clause in the Cruelty to Animals Act in Great Bzitaina This
law has been strictly enforced,yet the competency of British.surgeons
has never been questioned."

Mrs.Stevens, so very many humanemminded people,like my husband, who
is a retired4MhD.j‘and I, long to have you use your great talents and
powerful influence in Opposing animal experimentation.

Sincerely yours,

(51m A ﬂag/Lat“;
Mrs,Apthur Wellesley 5/

 




$313.2131960

D33r.I I33. @303,

Th3nk 333 for 3333 kind 133333 and 3313333
=33333333313n 3f IIV3 d3113333 It 33313 h3v3 3333
.33333333 133?3 31333 but 333 3333 33 33113 I 333 33 3
trip, 333‘31331333333,'333 33 I 3313 33331333 It '
~33333333 33333333, I 333 3 33331331 3333 that 3 3033
3f 333 033333 bilI 333 3333 y33 33 333 333333I33, and
I 33333 3333 It 3333333 333 33I3133_

I3314333 3333 3333333 3333 th 33 333 33 ult33133 _
33IIV33 In 33 3 33333333t13n 3I 3313 bIll. I h3V3 3333 V
31.333 “1:3 (333333 3": 331133131433 IVI;3 Intreﬂumimn. In 13
313133333 3333333 by 333 I3I13331 3331333 far’uadiaal
.33 333 3 3333333 I"1:133 3333 3333 It 3111 33 hiwhlj
‘3II333133, II 3 31§ 33 333 333 It 3333333 3333 th3ir
.mp333 IIIQH. ‘ - - ,»

I33 333 133133 +33 3313 333333 3) MI 3.

‘ ’-333n6333. It 13 Lh3 I333 3333 333 333t 33133133 13313133133

fin 333 33313 I33 333 prct333133 3f 333331333331 3313313
13 3333 3313 333*3333 13 3II33I In ‘333t333It313 3131693'

I'jI”?é.”h 3333333 bIll 33333133 333 33313 3313313133 of

‘*V333~I”13333.333 thch 13 3133 333333 33th 33 3333333133'
If3r 3II3313 333?. 33 3 33333 3 33133 3333 not 333333
'3313331Iin 313333333. Th3 133333 I3 333333131 I33 any
33111 33 33333 3 333333 3f 33333333

. _ I 13333 p3 333331 3336313333 ~Irc‘33 313‘I«nv‘
133313333133 Inwr wHiI3in 333i 333 vnIted 333333 3 33 3333
suII3IIn 333 3bu33 13 333V3nt3d‘by 333 br1313h.333.

Ier?v3rycn3 313 33333 to 3333333 3333lty 33 33334133n331
39,53313313 333316 'ﬁ.O 33313 333333 33 g3t IT? 03033? bill
’ 53333333 1333 133. I h3p3 3333 333 333 your Irienés 3111

3333 3333 13tt33 33 3333 ngt3n In sunpbrt Of It 333 Its~ﬁ

MI 3331 an ”“11m 131 3h3 H3333 of I3p3333n 33t1333 Imnrccuoad

I§§y th3 133. 33Lh3 riffith3, 333 Man. 01333133d waIlev of
3333 V13 I313 333 333 £33. I3333 911333 or ”aina.

- If only this bill were 133 333 3333‘3333133 33313
333 3II11 33 13333333333313 33313'3333333 33333 in the 333»
53333333. Only £3333 I33 plannini 3f 330333 3333313 hav3

‘ 3333 Vot3d by Ih3 333333 "03313333 33d3 till have to he «
33333333 33 th3 house Confereea. In your 1333333 33 WashIﬁwton,
’it 30313 33 3311 to 3mph33133 333 3333 for the 3333133 and '
; I33 I;h3 033333‘3111 and 3333 333393 333133 to 333p 33331333
.33II3rInIA 3t 33 3333 if you 33313 like 3333 1133333333.

 




IJJJJ 213,1910

JJJJ 1% 110013

» 2 “JJJJ JJJ fJJ JJJ JinJ 1JJJJJ JJJ JJIJJJJ
JJJJJ1JJ11JJ a? 11JJ JJllJJJ. 11 WGJlﬁhJV£1JJJﬁ ,
'JJJJJJadllJJJJJJJJ JJJ JJJ_ JJJJJ_JJ JJ11J21‘JJJ JJ2J2
1J1J3'JJJ *JJdiJJJJJd, JJJ JJ41 JJ1J JJJJiJJJ’iﬁ
‘JﬁtJrﬂﬁVJ 03.1%?3 1 JJJ J JJJJiJJI JJJJ JJJJ J JJJJ
'J:€ 111 Jnﬁﬁhﬁ J111 JJJ JJJJ JJJ JJ JJJ JJJ JJJJJ, JJJ
1 JJJ JJJ 11 JJJJJJJ J JJfJIJ.. "

EJJ JJJ xJJt JJJJJJJ JJJJ JJJJJ JJJ JJ 111JJ1JJ
‘JJJiVJJ 1n JJJ 1JJJJJJJJJJJ J1 “J11 11111'1 JIJJ JJJJ
‘ngJJJ tJ JJJJJJJin JJJJJJJJ 111 JJJJJJJJ11JJ1211 1J "
(Viﬁlﬁﬂuly JJJJJJJ JJ JJJ 11.J1JJ11 JJ1JJJ ;1JJ *JJ‘JJl
'JJJJJJJJ JJJJJJJ JJJJ JJJJ JJ 11 Jill JJ '1JJ1J
*JJJJJtivJ, 11 JJ1J JJ JJJ 111 1 JﬂaﬂwJﬁ JJJJ JiJi
JprJmJJJ. ,I , . I

A "12m. J What {111111151111 11111 JJJJJJ 1r: JJJ
iJJJJJJJJJ 1111 JJJ JJJ JJJJ JJJ JJJJ JJiJ J 3J31J1J11JJ
,1J JJJ'JJJlJ fJ JJJJ JJJJJJ11JJ J.f ammwylﬂﬁmhai JJJJJtJ

1J JJJJ @3191 JJ JJJJ 1J JJJJJJ 1J JJJJJ ,J 1J1J JJJJJ
1.'1”?6 ”JJ CJJJJJ Jill JJ2J11J 1JJ”JJJ1J JJ1JJ1J1JJ J1
I‘thﬁ JJ111JJ 1J1 JJiJJ 1J J1JJ JJJJJJ JJJJ JJ JJJJJJJIJJ
UfJJ JJJJJIJ JJJ JJ J JJJJJ J 1 JJ JJJJ J01 JJJJJJ
.»JJ1JJJ1“1J JiJJJJJJJ, 1J1 1JJJJJ 1J JJ JJ11J1 JJJ JJJ
{J111 JJ JJJJJ J JJJJJJ J1 QmJJJJJntn ‘ I. “

' ‘ ‘$~JJJJ fJJJ JJJJJJJ JJJJJ1JJJJ JJJJ V131“ J
1JJJJJJJJ1JJ 1n ~J11J1J JJJ 11a JniJJJ JJJJJJ JJJ much
JJJfJJJJJ JJJ JJJJJ 1J JJJJJJJJJ Ji JJJ «J111J 1J1.
JJJJJJJJ JJJ JJJJJ he JJJJJJJ JJJJ JJ JJ Jﬁﬁmsimﬁﬂﬁﬁl
JnJmJlJ JJlJ JJ JJJ1J JJJJJJ JJ J01JhJ {DJJJJa J111
JJJJJJJ 1JJJ 1JJJ 1 JJJJ JJJ1:2JJ JJJ ”Jar 1113nﬂﬂ J111
Vmwitﬁ JJJJ 1JJJJJJ JJ ‘1241111JJ1JJ 1n JJJJJJ of 11 JJ itJ g=‘

JJJJJJJJJ 1.11121 1:51 1311*: JJJJJ 01‘1““3111111111111‘117111 InxJMJ‘it‘iQJﬂ
by JJJ JJJ.. JJJJJ‘3J1111JJJ, tht J: JIJJJlJJJ JJ 1JJ J1
EYJJJ “I" 1J1J JJJ JJJ £111. IJHJJ "11JJJ J1? “"JiJJ. 2

~ I1 JJIJI 1J1J'J111 JJJJ law thJ JJJJ JJJJlJJ JJJ1J
JJJ £1111 JJ 1JJJJJ JJJJJJ1J JJJiJ JJJJJJJ JJJJJ in JJJ JJJJ
‘baaﬁmwnug inJ JJJJJ far J1JJJ1J3 J1 ..... JJJJJJ JJJJJIJ JJJJ
JJJJ JJJJJ JJ JJJ “JJJJJ COJﬂittﬁJ‘ané 1111f hJJJ JJ‘JJ .
”JJJJJJJJ”JJ JhJ iQuJJ ”mﬂfJJJJJ. In JJJJ lJtJJJJ JJ JJJ ’JJJJ,“"
,Iit JJJlJ JJ JJII tn JJJJJJiJJ thJ JJJJ fJJ JJJ JJJJlJJ JJJ “
.fJJ JJJ 6J0 JJ‘J111 Jud JJJJ @101 J JJt1JJ JJ 110p JJJJlJJJ
JJJFJJLJ. J1 JJ JJJJ 11 JJJ JJJ11,11JJ JJJ liJJJJJJJJ.

 




/"‘

‘a
if?)
‘~ June 20,1960

Seciety for Animal Pretective Legislatien
745 Fifth Ave-me , New Yerk 23, N.Y.

Dear Miss Bemelmans and Miss Stevens:
De yen have a cepy of this bill S.3570,i;ﬁym

of which yen wrete me? I have written to both ~ 3

.x' L”. r“ '
6’

Indiana senators asking far this, but have
received nething frem them. Perhaps you can
tell me where ts write fer this.

I have received,(as I suspect yen know
from what yeu have written abeut the oppositien,)
Urgent instruction to fight this bill, frem
the National Anti—Vivisectien Society in Chicago.

I must confess that I suSpect it, even under what

seems to be fine sponsership, and yet I as fear

that I may be wreng ans that I should back it.

 




I incline to suspect it because of the
time of its introduction, which suggests that
it is a sort of "rider" on the one of the session
and pressured through, possibly by the A.M.A.
which must certainly have got the impression
that the public is at its heels and that some sort
of legislature Was hound to follow. It seems
very strange to me (but perhaps you see better
how it is) that this sudden billing of the
matter should occur right here at the one of a
crowded session, unless there were some unterior
motive trying to force it through. And While,
for the sake of the animals, one would begrudge
even e day of relief, I find myself, as things

are new, greatly inclined to beg for time and to

hope that consideration of this may be delayed.

 




I myself do not believe that there will be
the abolition of vivisection ( a thing so greatly
to he desired from my point of view), until we
have advanced further in the knowledge of the animal
as an entity with consciousness basically like our own.

There is bound to come (if we last to see it!) rebound

from this over—emphaSis upon Science and into the

wermth of the Humanities again.
The thing I have been afraid of in this bill
is that by putting the matter into these hands
we may be blocking the way to further betterment.
I do not believe that this is a matter which should

he thrust into what is already a top-heayy beaurocrecy.

I do not doubt the sponsors earnest sincerity, but
I cannot be sure of their forethought . Too, I

Wonder what has suggested this course to them. It

would seem fine to a layman, but to those working in
the field- I am not so suIB.

 




For the first time since your letters have

come, I failei to write mine about the beetles

in Washington who neeé runs. Will you tell me
if that matter has been settled. If not, I can
get the letters written new. Our place is still
”occupied" by the Communists- trees and sky— but
from the kitchen, which is all I have of my house,
I can still write!

The money enclosed is to repay in part the
postage you heve used in writing to me.

All good fortune to you both and to your

many good ans merciful causes.

Mrs. Louise Wood

The Sanctuary,

Route 3, Box 864,
Martineville, Indiana

 




Mrs . Clare Ball Gravee
905 North Fifth Street
Springfielé, 3211121013

Deer ﬁre. Graves, ‘

Thank yen fer your kind and theughtm letter of Jena 20th.. I
appreciate your cam ere ebeet eeminietretim ef the legielatiee, but
I de not were yew apprehension that the temper bill meld net - .
effectively prevent erg-e et messes eff mimel euffering in lebereturiesé
I have mmoeefily Vieitee many laboreteriee. in the United Stetee 11d
, Regime em I have meee a mimte study ever the lest eight were of .
the British lee end the beet may te eeeeeplieh its .gz‘eet benefits few
ear emericen' wheels , 39- many ef which are heedIee—ely suffering tor ‘
leek of legislation to protect them. The? need the v-Ceeper 1:35.11
deeperetely. ' " , ‘ ,

her your the they infereet 5m extent the hill ,1 I enclose the last _

a Infemmtiee Report at the enieel ‘itel‘fere Inetitute, weather organ ieeti cm
with ehdieh I week. he you will 3533*; it eeele with mm at the criticism
made by Mr. Richard. I hem never met him personally ee: you have done
but the eed truth ie that be here publiehed a whole series a! fail-3e eta en ~
meme ebeut the ﬂower hill.— Beteeen hie efferte and theme of the Rational
Seeﬁety for Medical Reeeemh, ehi ch alter.) bee publishea false statemmta
ageinet the bill, it ie gaming to be herd eleddieg‘ ta get preteetion for
the unfertmete Mime. ’ ' - , ‘ ' , ' '

‘ I me confident that yea are sine ere in year am the ‘ to help the ma
maimla end that therefem you will help ehtain meetment ef the em as
it steeds ; for tlmuyh I meeeMee the W ty ef yew teatime in euggeeting
that the head of an» mtievivieactien eeeiety be named. inepeetw‘ in f -
legwlation regulating the use ef labereteezjsr animals, the actual rmlt
at leech e nuggeetien if it were actually ineerporateﬁ. in. the bill mm
be ta mean that the bill weuld never be exacted into lee. This, surely,
ﬁle not what yen want. A Werete hill can becomeleu. The amen need
a law ta weteet them. ' ' * ' H - ' . =

With ldne regarde‘ and best 'wiehea , .
' Sine erely;

Mammy-Treasurer I

 




(/1415. glaze; Bag) graves
' de-zwapapst Cofumnéaﬁ

FOR MIDWEST NEWSPAPERS
905 NORTH FIFTH STREET

OFFICE HOURS
IOTOIZAJR. - 3T08P.M. ' IOTO IZPIM.

Except Saturdays and Sundays
PHONE DURING OFFICE HOURS. 4-4436
SPRINGFIELD. ILLINOIS

June 30, 1960

society for protection of
Animals —-Legislation
attention

miss Madeleine Bemelmans

Dear Miss Bemelmans;

1 have read your letters with marked interest be~
cause of my great interest in animals. A few months ago,
when you asked us to write to our congressmen urging them
with ﬁrthur Flemming to make for better housing of test
beagles, I wrote a paragraph for my syndicated column
asking my readers to do likewise.

on my desk is your letter stating the fact of Cooper
bill, proposed to prevent cruelty in laboratories‘ in
research promotion, 1 often had thought that such a -
bill would be a marvel and that we who eat meat Should not
hesitate to offer Up animals to research if they were
treated as they should be, giving the great sacrifice of
life to humanity, - a

For years I have been a member of anti~vivisection
society ~~The National society located at 543 n, Dearborn
st,, Chicago 10. Have met MI. Richard and admire his
energy in the cause of animal cruelty. obliteration ”‘ 1 A
few days ago I received a letter from this socrety which
cleared the way for my thinking and read all over again
your letter. The pamphlet says that inepectors would be
a medical man perhaps and the health and welfare de~
partment of national government, How well I know how our
state welfare neglects cases of cruelty or rather neglect
in nursing homes. Unless such men as MI. gicnard were“
named inepectors I could not be made to believe that our
helpless animals wre better off than now~~pernaps worse.
For many years?I have been on the fighting line against _
cruelty to people and animals. ~—*Pernaps you, too, Will
cnange your Opinion about sanctioning research Without a
strong and sympathetic police force,‘

Really I could EOT support the COOper bill unless~~~~y
sincere in my5love for animals.
EitherryOu or I does not understand,
5” Mrﬁr Clara Bell Graves__s

‘ vawwngﬁ' " if“ (.2" U “I,
i. W
II' 4‘“

 




June 13, 1960 '

van

Sear “133 Imrneyé

i “hank you vary much fbr your letter. I Was pained We
'See WhaW Wha hxnmpnt of 13335 Ira AWSWWWIIW IS conWLnuin
evimenWIy Whe murIff OWQE “WWW ﬁid not take any acWIQn afWWr
balding hmasI 53$ abouu WIW Immartation Qf Sheep. 1

~ . I am ver3731ad that 30"Wrmte to me about WWaW *ou had
hsarﬁ WWmuW “IIJIO. I WWIWWW What WhW humane workar Wnu bglkﬁﬁ Wiﬁh‘
IOW WWW AIQIWWWIOW IIIJ WWW Wf .mWW anWIvIvIWWWWIWn uQLIWII s which ,
‘WWW ugzmsgag WIW bLII.3I,Iavm bean Inmckeg WWI amazed by Whe outright}
IIWW.W:I03 93: 0I uhﬁIG WQWIWWIﬁa have been 03 rculati 33 about the ‘
WIII ‘ III 3% n omIW Wain'. 33W guhar 03 have been “ronle m18« ;
._ HIINHIW 63 613% they WWW WW mg'éel berataly WW 33133630 IMWl? mewberu.3
; I have pa 3SWWn3113 WIWIWWQ a WWWWWW 0f WW Waeawch 19b03auOPl@B In 393 lanI
and I3 {I 3IW QGthPI RID $303 What I IIWVW eWn I LHGW tbatwbne I rIWIWh
WeW.mm AMI»; ﬁnatﬂr(tﬂ0pﬁv3p Will Is Ow39ﬁ 13,30unﬂ.In 333n33p13 and
WWII WIIWWGQW In WWIIWW Iabarauoriaa animal are:WWll cave‘ for,
yau a0 WQW 883 WWW WWII} 0'33 W83 the IIIWW WWI WhW nealact that are .
too cawwo ”433%. :6? WWW WHWWW WDW cruel @xperlmwnt which are bmcominv A
Amara WWW Momw ccmmnn WnWQ. I knew thW CWIWI Inspevto W? the Rome ,
Off... 0533 333333,},33 -.:?:-.n 6333333333. OI Wufoycmw 1:336: MW; 1163 IS a 33.112333133313333,
IIrWI WIIW WOW t”aWWWIul WcruWIny W0,W ha axnewiﬁen WI W033 WhIdh
Ina WW Wee 933w one3w 33 no cruclty.-Jn lish anWIVIvlseaWienI ts .
13333 @WWDWCﬂ WIW UWIWIWh Ict becaua WW It Is am OUSuWVLQ to t‘eIW
a*”6 30 Im3 IVImQQtIOU oaII IHWQI the eIfecuIva ﬂuaimwtaes of
hmdﬂﬂ” WWW IWGWW Iowa WWW @ﬁﬁCﬂ anImalg WWQp WWW IOﬂOﬁﬁl punlic fram
‘takInf an In.owwqt WWII WIVIWWWWIOW, which I3 WOWWWIWWW a Pali3iaus
I deal for “mtJVIVF PPtluﬁ.chiptﬂeu. ,;, ,

I , I w I RWWW been «Wudvinw WIIW aueation for alrht yWaWs a-nd

WW canvimcéa W: 3W la jalﬂtJﬁd an the yatcmrn 0 uh“ m3 Wiah Act

S L3 33313 QPMDUICQH maﬁa“ , ‘ Wopdiuh the abuaé of laboratowy
“£33318. I.IQ WWW 3M-HK,3h9u 3 bill ywcvidgnv fer an Insnuntorata
o;C M’WW ‘ rdc'aaw morueWE WGPII We WIIWWLIIC In eranW Ina cwuel
eywvdIWe WW. wumane Worker could psraama an aometnln” W0 sec tIlat
«LtndaJma OI 033m 316 hOUILﬁ“ Ware Wajaad, ant Whev would not have
the'weulcal {nGWIC 3o 03 WWW PQWtjﬁ‘ We Wu 3316' W0 either under Wand
Whe WWWWWW 0f the WXpWI ImWnWs wa‘ch W338 hejnw performed or I argue
WIIWCW Iver With resea ch chwntiata as to Whnthor an 63perim .W‘was
GaumIn” undWo'WUI ern “’ohun ‘cIentifIc auth03333, an Inspvrtor
13W0JCA 303 we aI>le t0 enfaﬁce the p3incichu of 116 Act It Is.s aid
WhaW.WW091 0~W5Wh Memﬁcnl traInIﬁv womic not CJJOQCC WWW act becau.se
WWWIW Wwpabhiwa wamld me with the sci ntlsta and not W3 Wh the .
anIWa It Is AWeeWWWPW no rmma Wbezr bare What they woulﬂ not be I
,reseg ”67 Giant WW3.3 out afpicers 0f Whe Department of mWWWWh, ‘duuqflon
'mnd ﬁliawas responsIWIW so WIWW Rec r933?" Who has nWVWW been a, -
xediCIl man. It 13 true tha. W the Dnna3ument of Health Iducation and
elfare Includes WWIWWWch scﬁentﬁs WW both In the ﬁU3liO “ealth “ervice
and In Wha ImOD and'DWuW udmInisWrWUIQn, however, Whe adW nIutratwve

 




fficials who 333 in. 0113333 333 133m11, and 3333? I 33V31331311113
working ta 33? 333M r hOUSLV' for the N3 0331133 h3v3 b33n 3333333313,»
helpful 311d 333333, 31d perfectTv 31333 33333 to 3udg 3 the rebamn3ndat10n
of the V133 :1113 33330:;:' cm i33 333113 and so 0433-3313 333 '
'33001m n‘abion.1f th33yka'M13t aha 3013331333 were 313 336. After
3.1], ch3 ﬁavsztmenb 0:10313h,~63c31131-333 “31153393333351333333

t stified 13113vcr 3f lmwvavca 103313? for'tV “33313 ~3331nst_th3
.1113031331331ﬁixl of 13333173; 33W 1 . 3,,1133" ‘ : ‘f 4111313
qnltwr" to 1n- = 2‘ £3 3:¢:'1w ‘1‘§. ' ='z= 7-‘ 33313
.133 3&3 ‘ ‘ ‘ T“‘ T T“ T ' "T

in 33.11: :; 'p. -3311333335

.,k-.
3-. '5

11333

«34—!
3"“?

“1"!

1’ ' ' T- . .41“ , . T , L.
333‘ 3333, L..u..»1.9.9 .3 .9¢:.3:,_ 31 1h39 : ,.
33333 33313 ~
»‘:1‘a{1 T
1333 333

11‘" O

m-

; , '{f‘i
-, :33.

N

. 9 .g . ,,;~y._ ._ :3 r- . , ,. 4113111 331
133313 t33'3111 fVL’JR 1313133T 331:37“. 13'? T“ a 11”1d T 3111
1333 u:33133 1313 x? 3333 “:3; 133511.95: \T $; To 313 T1313 33.
.033 .3'3333 3&3“n_3411111..;ww'w191»13'r¢ﬁ; Wing. ”’ ;T0 13 333 3 .
'3143;”ﬁ 3133. inwugﬂ. : 1311115 7‘: ag.¥'3 ~:3ﬁf: 13=2C'1 - '33133'113 311.1. 1ﬂ13‘
1033 01 133 .x'j ‘133‘°T~ 131131333 133 1333 31 3“
11333313 §“%“L 39:2; 3 1 3. V:.,qa1s11g # 39331333133 3103333 it
3011361. 313311 110311 a :3113 33.333; A. 1 11‘ 1.," 5:1 .31 31333 1111101).
1ght 3313 333 3333" $.333 ”3.131.: :3 33wb 'fﬁﬁ 1*;33 $3133 31‘bum3nﬁ
3' 331 10: 'DE:"«»:T "J31”‘ 33?? a ' ‘T '1X~ww'.1' ﬁre “'1 :133133
3LL3 11~= vI'Tu 11*32 :133113336 113 3131,13333.»1415 1:171 112123 333331.311;
r3 f.;:¢{7e?: '-{9131337“3§331T ”33333'3:9 117_::g3;113*3=d3173
T9 9'1 -- "ll 2.5.. ' ’1Ti1 "1?: .1 ,3 .2; .. TJ T112“); -- T T

.74
:3

y .

. 3

agfﬁﬁ333333 ,3 33991.: =ij3.wu€13¢ V131 “13133”
:3333333 33331 231 3333313»33 3311 33.1311
133 3 1333131133 33331. 9 , .3 M
333'33 331“? 01 33311331 r.:;;é~? 1313313.

a” “J T~ -J:,..‘ M T-- ' =1 3' . » '.5 .L . T T U 1 ,, . w v.1“ T w A ' «4-1, ‘. ' . :T , . 1. T - ‘ '~ 7'“ T " r. ‘7} I ’T'“ T" .5 A“ ' ("l 5 .
I T133) {.3 ' 7‘1. ». _ 1 _ my" 1.1.. T T" T 1.53 Ti 4.) 1T ‘ . n,“ ‘1. '4' -- 1.1-7 A’L. T" J J. h ULLU T.) 00:99}?
“I. T .‘ I ' . L .' T .. ,1»; I '\ 0‘1 v-w I ~ an- ' 3 ,
1f .11v333 ~' . . 33» ,,..H 3 33 3313 13 3-133
' \w 7- y » 31": b, r A M -. v N? v. ~r ' "a: .4 1~ .3 _:»' " 3""! ”I
*1 7321.... :3 1"“ 1.13.130 1-5.1 V3 2“?“ ’1 .' 111131.151 30111,, 191116: 3 {1 11:1 190d

In.

*0? 3113 3~n 3c 33 39133233:

‘1!” .1."

1...,1. 1.15:1 ‘3 .

313333313,

"T" ' ' ' 3m 1‘ «v a '1“ ’ H :1. T" 1»
1-130 :13 2.11- 11:; - 2.11 3. :1 1-1. “1111‘.

L a—m ‘p—V

 




aﬁuﬁﬂ, (M). Stems?
3225 55:2an 0405.
(Sam [Abuja E3 Cali/[oxide

9 June 1960

UeariMrs.Stevens~

Do trust that by this time the sprained ankle
is really a thing of the past and that it does not
trouble,you in any way,during your busy days.

As I feared,the lamb situation continues,but
at another port instead of San Diego,as per the
enclosed clipping.

now,another thing which 1 hesitate to mention
but must for my own peace of mini. I had sent for
more brochures re:S.3570 and was writing letters and
asking friends to write. Yesterday,a quite prominent
humane worker told me that it is a very bad Bill. The
inspections will be under the Public Health Officers
'who are most of the worst offenders. She said that a
similar bill was passed in.ureat Britain and the
result was nil. It was like putting a thief to check
on thieves. The Public health Officer would report the
all was well when the worst conditions existed. she
said that Humane society Officers should do the
inspecting if any benefits would ensue from the
passage of this 5.5570. When there is any dispute in

the humane Field<and I find many) the animals suffer

 




while the humans argue. i said that I had faith.in you
and believed that you were working to really help but
while she admitted that you were a sincere person, you
did not fully understand that this sill'would do nothing
i have worried over this matter and decided to write
this morning directly to you.

sorry that this is a rather unpleasant letter,
the lambs and this proposed legislation.

sincerely yours,

We???

 




‘ation

has w
A; “Pactical

rely
more

N
'2

laglﬁ
a

T?"

d

'13 $216)

a.
f w
9"” \J

”M

”I w

{9“}
J"
«1.,
M b
ﬂ .2,
wnau I
OVSS
'1
“4.4.9 8 tr

.
3‘ :
.

y“:

L"!

& I
$115137 653

3

‘1.

’L?

l
M
Y:

ﬁwnt
1,”.
, 2...
f 8
11-1}?
0

‘a‘

‘1,»
’uw‘.
asmrar

r

b
m
$§¢

wa

‘1'ng 1 .

we"
ﬁt”
'3
I
FQ

!

FT?

4 av;

w

1

faﬁem

3 w a
4x
m... .3.
. .3“
‘J ..L a.“
f "Y
‘ c.)
7 v*‘
”4' (y! 8
‘3 .....
65a?“

).
.f_

\M‘

aﬁv
i“

‘ (393"?
H
A -m~

.1

, 5% ‘7
:13 m
5% 5‘3.-. "3 i"
54.3?! 37’“
‘noeril

k! 5‘ x.

w.

’1

km

5.

L
Saar

“3‘

£3
1:.

1
A
*1" 3*

':,_‘., ﬂy AH '

‘ y "V113. {ar- 4‘
.3,

I

z i" (3-.
;.~.,,., L! ,r,

‘23

p
{7 j
{4 —. 1'

ﬂ‘
v": “V ‘9—
5 I
k. ‘m. *
, WW3":
, L _—
. v
n.

5»3
Dz.

““m
‘x

a;
‘ .. .
~ *3

,.
m.) ..
Mild). U

,
,wwmvp

KT
0‘.

3a.

Am
' L:

.2.

“O
.1'
Ca
J'
i 3

{V
I}

'5
Of
5%
:23
d

O;
a:
a»
n
A.

, “w
*3:
3,,

‘ u

‘
.. 4..
h

1

Ju‘

3
t {71
‘1.%».
9‘"; J. .J: ,‘3
9‘7?
J~?
Kak

m. h‘.
ff" ,1 -
‘3’

in
,camma
tELQ

.}¢ “‘1:

' i

I

Bﬁ
{v
“’OLK

1L

a ‘ 4
I
(a
i
I

a3:

'3
‘
a

lﬂﬁﬂ

J-
l
at

"l

u
4 :A '
F1 5.) *3

.1)

'1

.1.

5:33.- ,..
U1 4 '53 U
( P 1.. I a v
(“V

1C3:

1‘1? 3
ﬁ

,1‘

.'.1'
mam:
)

‘1
ﬂ
n

‘1
{I} C:
2,331,177) _

C 0?]?

1

LI
"I" v.
3.3
,3
L;

 




3 x/WUL/ )Z/ZL’Q’U \K/J Zg 2"6

(9} 3/311 ”C; M Jul/9‘4“ 344% @Z’LWSL
3/4, , . J.
«j‘ifgj’ést Mica/{13,3394 MQ/éj’m L»? AA; 233WL

{
43/232 gag/Z """ c; .~ N/M/UJZ 4333/3333.

3312333132} //3:; 3/31 ‘‘‘‘‘‘

, 31/34/1333 36]“ /_/. (Ia/i Wt :LA/L) @333;

3,413/1le W) ﬁg. @311, (13/9/77
3/33. , 3,333 '1. ,3. 3/»

(it. 42A. X47364“ ﬂ’ﬁz

533$ 43

 




 




 




My er?

. M /%L0 (35/
MM“ 3MM/le. a2? J W“ ‘

sz/‘wdc/‘L

 




Oklahoma Animai Protective League, Inc.

PARENT ORGANIZATION

“ uhéauwmn ' TULSA, OKLAHOMA

was-amen F 0 R \{U U R

y I know you do not have the time to read this letter ~- anymore than I
thad time to write it.

LE‘LIE IROOK.
Pl“! DIN?

DEAR SENATORS AND CONGRESSMEN:

' Yet, I h0pe you do read it as an important element of our American civi-
' lization is at stake. ‘

This is no jest. Please read on and see how H.R. l388l (the Poage Bill)
even with Senate amendments affects our way of life and, therefore, with
”all its so-called humanitarian implications, should be defeated.

The ”fly in the ointment” is that the bill promotes the theme of tyrants
and even of some welfare-type peOple who believe they are doing good.

This theme is that THE END JUSTlFlES THE MEANS.
-Now, America was formed to fight such philosophies and to limit the powers

’ of governments, and individuals too, who believe in or consciously or
unconsciously advocate such by their actions. . an

Any measure before the House or Senate which touches on this factor
warrants majOr attention by every Congressman and Senator. ~W

"How does H.R. l388l as amended fit this pattern of ”the end justifies
the means“? Here's how.

The very POWEFfUi groups who say they want to experiment on animals to
improve medical science and to relieve suffering, fight attempts to,
imprOVe the before and after experimentation-care of animals.4‘*”“

Your hearings and uncontested data shows that many laboratories put
animals in small cages, some they can‘t stand up in, for months and even
years.' And, after experiment, care is seriously neglected by many labora-
tories. There's no need of elaboration as these are known facts.‘

The point is that those who claim the need of research do not want any
bill passed which will force humane before and after care of research
animals. They want to be judge and jury of their acts.

This isn't consistent with their ”noble cause” and can only mean they
have an attitude of ”the end justifies the means”.

They actually want no bill passed. But, because of public indignation
at what they see the scientific community let happen by some of their
group, they feel that some bill will be passed.

50 the next step is to water down the law so it will lull the public,
who want humane treatment of animals, into thinking such has been

accomplished. . _
(contmued on other szde)

 




