“ -' ~ . THE MEDICAL ANTI-VIVISECTION LIBRARY.

‘ THEORY

‘ L H. VALENTINE KNAGGS
' ’ LRCP MRcs

- THE ANIMAL-DEFENCE & ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY,
' 170, Piccadilly; London, W.

 

' PRICE ONE PENNY








..THE

TRUE GERM THEORY.

By H. VALENTINE KNAGGS,
L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S.

 

 

HE adepts of Eastern mysticism, who are
T tuned to perceive spiritual things, tell us
that “ all space is ﬁlled with ‘atoms,”’
dazzling like specks of virgin snow in radiant
sunlight, that the atmOSphere seems ablaze With
them, and that they have a circular motion, more
rapid than thought in vibration.*

Modern scientists conﬁrm this, for they postu-
late that all space is ﬁlled with inﬁnitesimal
particles called “electrons,” that these, under the
,guidance of electro-magnetic forces, governed by
natural laws, group themselves into atoms, and
that by aggregations of numbers of atoms into
molecules all ,the various forms of mineral,
vegetable and animal life have been, and are ever
being, built up.

These electrons from space (i.e., the ether) pass
ﬁrst through the mineral kingdom, consisting of

 

* H. P. Blavatsky, “ Secret Doctrine,” Vol. 1, page 633, 1888.

 




 

air, water and earth. They are then taken up by
the vegetable kingdom to form plants, etc. As
food they ﬁnally enter the animal world and, after
passing through the animal body, return to the
ether to complete their life—cycle.

Life, then, may be deﬁned as that condition of
cosmic activity which is brought about by the cir-
culation of electrons through the three different
kingdoms.

M. Béchamp, a French scientist, was one of the
ﬁrst who studied life from this point of view.*
He called the circulating . electrons “microzy-
mas,” because he found that, as far as the
vegetable and animal worlds were concerned,
these microzymas were in reality the minute seeds
which ultimately evolved into microbes, or into
which microbes would revert at their death. M.
Béchamp also asserted, as do the Eastern adepts, that
these microzymas are indestructible and immortal.

The views of M. Béchamp, published in 1893 and
embracing the results of over twenty years of careful
experimental research, met with ﬁerce opposition.
His discoveries were altered, perverted and plagiarised
by men like M. Pasteur and Prof. A. Gautier,
although it was in reality to some extent from M.
Béchamp’s experiments, wrongly interpreted, that
the present germ theory introduced by M. Pasteur
and Lord Lister was evolved.

 

* “ Les Miorozymas et Microbes,” Paris, 1893.
2

 

 

 




 

 

M. Béchamp asserted, and proved by certain
experiments, that microbes were produced within
the body itself, from its own structures, and were
thus a part of a natural process.

M. Pasteur and Lord Lister, on the contrary,
evolved the theory that microbes, especially those
which are observed to arise in connection with
disease, had nothing in common with the human
or animal body, but came from the air (i.e , from
outside sources), and so attacked the living structures
of the animal and vegetable kingdoms.

If we follow the Béchamp clue to its logical con-
clusion, we should certainly come to the decision
that microbes are not necessarily special creations
of living entities whose sole function is to attack
man, but that they are inherent and immanent in all
living matter, Whether vegetable or animal.

We shall realise that the microbe is in reality the
intermediary between the microzyma (or the electron
with its coating from the mineral kingdom) and what
is called in biology the cell.

All the components of the human body, as every‘
one ought to know, are found under microscopical
examination to resolve themselves into micro-
scopical structures, called cells. Thus a muscle is
composed of muscle cells, a nerve is constructed of
cells peculiar to that sort of tissue, and so on with
every one of the tissues and organs that go to make
up the body as a whole.

 




 

All these cells are similar in general construc-
tion, but vary in size, appearance and functioning
powers according to the particular organ or tissue
that they are called upon to represent.

Cells, in turn—~and this is not apparently
realised or recognised by the followers of the
Pasteur or orthodox schools—are composed of yet
smaller living elements, known as microbes or
germs.

Microbes also resolve themselves into the still
smaller living elements, which M. Béchamp called
the microzymas. These are in reality germ spores
(i.e., the eggs or seeds of germs), just as the
relatively larger organism the microbe is the progeny
or young of the full-grown cell, 'or as the tadpole is
the young of the frog.

A human body, then, is built up of a number of
tissues and organs, each consisting of immense
colonies of myriads of tiny cells. These also con-
sist of colonies of microbes, and these latter,
again, resolve themselves into colonies of micro-
zymas.

The human organism is a teeming nation or
world in miniature, consisting of micro-organisms
in various stages of evolution or devolution, which
are capable of a common life on ideal socialistic
principles, for there is a mutual arrangement and
differentiation of function which entails and en-

4

 




forces toleration and utilisation of each other’s
peculiar products.

Cells are built up by aggregation into colonies
of vast numbers of germs. Whenever the cells
do the work allotted to them the germ colonies
within them throw out their seeds, or microzy-
mas, such seeds being known either as ferments
or enzymes if they are to be used for any vital
purposes, or as leucomaines, if the body has no
further need of them.

When the cells die, the cell-wall, or skin sur-
rounding the cell, bursts, and sets free the microbe
colonists within.* These, after a variable existence,
depending upon the soil and environment in
which they ﬁnd themselves, resolve themselves into
a variety of germ-seeds or mycro'zymas, known as
ptomaines or toxins.

The vast accumulation of working, living cells
constituting the human body undergoes ceaseless
and constant changes. At one time new cells are
being produced to form new tissues or to repair
old, broken-down or injured parts. At other
times they are being broken down by local or
general death, when their microbic or microzyma
debris must be cleared away, so as not to con-
taminate the cells living and working in their
vicinity.l

 

* This can easily be noted by making microscopical
examinations of decomposing pus or of stale yeast.

’r If the eliminating forces of the body fail to act promptly,
diseases of a. microbic type will then occur.

5

 




 

 

 

It is the microzyma that evolves the germ and
the germ that builds the cell, by forming each,
respectively, into colonies, and it is to the microbe
and the microzyma that the dead cell ultimately
resolves itself.

Looked at in this sense, life may be deﬁned as
the~ vehicle or agency by means of which micro-
zymas are enabled to circulate on the plane called
consciousness.

Vegetable plants or trees, with their roots,

leaves, ﬂowers, seeds and fruits, are built up, or
broken down, in exactly the same manner as is
the human body, through the agency of micro-
zymas.
These microzymas draw their life powers of cell-
building or cell-destroying from the sun’s rays
and from the various mineral elements with which
they are brought into contact.

The cells built up by the living vegetable, and
called by us foods, are, in conjunction with the
breathing of pure air, the media by means of
which a continuous circulation of microzyma
elements from the mineral kingdom through the
human body is made possible.

When vegetable food is eaten by man, the cells,
of which the vegetable is composed, are acted
upon by the, human microzymas (enzymes or fer-
ments) which are released by the digestive juices,
and are thus broken down into their component

6

 

 




 

. r--‘-_x‘1~c:tear

 

vegetable microzymas. These pass by various
channels into the blood circulation,* and are thus
carried to the various working tissues and organs.
Here they are absorbed by the existing animal
cells and are utilised to produce work or to create
new cells.

Microzymas are built up of various mineral, or
inorganic materials which have been grouped to-
gether (i.e., made what is called organic) in such
a way as to ﬁt them for their passage ﬁrst through
the vegetable and ﬁnally the animal kingdom.

The cells accept or reject the microzymas con-
veyed to them according to their respective needs,
or according to the special functions they are
called upon to perform. I Thus muscle cells will
be receptive of one kind of microzyma, nerve or
bone cells of another, and so on.

The efﬁcient and rythmical circulation of
microzymas through the human body will largely '
depend upon the quantity and quality of the food
eaten or of the air breathed. It is for this reason
that the feeding and environmental hygiene of man,
and the chemistry and biology relating to the organic

 

(

* Under high power ‘ projection” magniﬁcation, ‘fresh
blood can be seen, especially after a meal, to be teeming
with living actively moving organisms, which are known as
enzymes or ferments. These are the microzymas of
Professor Be’champ, which serve the purpose of building up
or breaking down the cells of which all the tissues and
organs of the body are composed.

7

 




constituents of man’s body, are of such supreme
importance.

A thorough knowledge of this subject, and a
realisation 'of the true role of the germ in nature,
will enable any far-seeing physician to entirely
eliminate all serums, vaccines, and most drugs
from his list of remedies. It will also enable him
to perceive that, Without a soil or environment
produced by wrong feeding, wrong thinking, or
defective hygiene, there can be no disease-producing
germs.

 

Printed by St. Clements Press. Ltd"
Portugal St, Kingsuray, 117.0.-

 




 

 




 




