E1..3:s,u:‘a N3 5... 331.3:oati" l3i7‘li‘. o ‘qlLiu"

from the Embassy at London England.

ANIMALS WELFARE WEEK”
‘ What about it?

Tothe ()lder Boy and Girl

 

Have you ever thought that in a few years’ time you will have
become the men and women of the world?

Do you ever think what that means? Do you realise that you and
your generation will have the task of carrying on civilisation and of
passing on the result to the next generation?

It is to enable you to do this hat you are at school,lthat you may
learn to use your capacities to their greatest extent, especially the think-
ing capacity, which makes humanity a little diﬂerent from, and a little

‘

more capable, than the animal kingdom.

As you go through life you will meet many problems which will
call for the fullest use of this thinking capacity; you will have to decide
for yourself what is right and what is wrong. Among these you will
find that one of the most important and interesting is that of the relation
of mankind to the animals.

, It is interesting because the
more we know of animals the
more lovable and beautiful their
lives appear; so like and yet so
different from our own, they
appeal to all that is" best and
highest in as.

It is important because there
are so many points of view and
you will be called upon to decide
how much we are justiﬁed in
using animals in the way we do;
for our food, our clothing, our
amusements, our health, our
transport, even our soap, our
scent and writing paper! Can the , .; ‘ V 1-
appalling cruelties of the slaughter house, the hunting ﬁeld, the circus,
the zoo, the transport train and boat, the mine, the music hall‘ 9mm,”

the laboratory, ﬁt in, at all with the word “civilisation”?
[P.’T.O.

 




We read with horror of the deeds of so-called “savages,” of the
wholesale slaughter of enemies, of the cruel torture of man by, man
in the past and We consider we have somewhat advanced beyond those
days. What then of the slaughter and torture of animals, most of it
useless and wanton, upon which our daily lives are based? Of the
suffering and pain We inﬂict on those that are weaker than ourselves
and who have never been our “enemies”? Pain and sufliering is still
pain and suffering whether endured by man or beast; isn’t it rather
cowardly to inﬂict on animals the pain from which we ourselves shrink?
Can humanity be really happy without throwing off this vast load of
misery it is daily calling on the animal kingdom to bear? Cannot human
life go on without it?

All these questions you will have to face, you who are going to
be the thinking man or woman of the future. The greatest men and
women of the past and of the present assert that these things need
not be. '

What will YOUR answer'be?

 

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE,
52, Queen’s Avenue, London, N.10.

 




