NOTES FOR A PROSPECTUS

 

FOR THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUEE

 

Publicity Consultants
2M7 Park Avenue

RAY'JOSEPHS
JUDITH MURPHY

 




TYPE OF ORGANIZATION:

A scientific organization, privately financed, founded
by a group of persons interested in the promotion of humane

treatment of animals.

The Institute will be incorporated as a non-profit

organization under the laws of Delaware.
Its interests and membership will be nationwide.

It will Operate from headquarters in New York City.

 




PURPOSE AND SCOPE:

The aim of the Institute will be:
.To promote the welfare of all.animals; to
reduce the total of pain and fear inflicted
on animals by man.

While the Institute is interested in every phase of

animal welfare, it will, at the outset, concern itself primarily

with humane safeguards in the use of animals for research and
medicine.
This is one aspect of humane work that has received

very little practical attention. As a result, standards for the

 

use of laboratory animals vary from individual to individual, from
institution to institution. Regulation, if it exists at all, is
rudimentary.

At present, animal experimentation in the U. S. is a
highly controversial subject:

1. Antivivisectionists fight for the outright
abolition of animal experimentation.

2. Scientists deeming themselves hampered by
unsatisfactory supplies of animals needed for research
and by antivivisectionist activity, counter by demanding
the forced surrender of unlimited numbers of animals
from public and semi-public sources.

3. Sincere humanitarians who do not disapprove

 

of animal experimentation are having their constructive

work made difficult, and in some instances impossible,

 




~l+~

by the scientists who react to antivivisectionist
extremes by themselves going to opposite lengths.

On the urgent problem of laboratory animals, therefore,

the Institute will have the following immediate aims:

l. gage: The establishment of a universal code
for the handling and use of laboratory animals,
whereby existing legislation might be implemented.
The Institute will interest itself in all experi~
mental animals, from the higher mammals down the
scale to the amphibia and invertebrates.

2. Researgh: The encouragement of medical re-
search of the highest possible quality, as

opposed to mere quantity; the development of
techniques that will reduce to a minimum both

the pain suffered by animals and the number of
animals required. I

3. Procurement Programs: The support of legitimate
procurement programs that will produce satisfactory
supplies of animals for the needs of science and
medicine, without jeopardizing the work of animal-

protectionists.

 




BASIC RATIONALE FOR THE INSTITUTE:

In its efforts to promote animal welfare, the Institute

will be guided by certain basic considerations:

1. Animals feel pain (distress, anxiety, discomfort).

There is every scientific reason for concluding
that the higher vertebrates are capable of suffering.
With the lower animals, the evidence may be less clear,
but observation of even the simplest invertebrates
strongly suggests their sensitivity to pain and dis—
comfort.

As E. J. Farris, executive director of the
Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology has said: "The.
animal is a very sensitive piece of apparatus. . . and
must be treated with care and consideration."

2. Realism, not sentimentality, will best advance the
cause of animal welfare.

The Institute, like the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare in England, belongs to the realist
school of animal-protectionists that "attends mainly
to the feelings of animals with a view to reducing their
sufferings and improving their lot," rather than to the
so-called romatic school that "is more concerned with
giving expression to the distress aroused in human beings

by cruelty."

 




3. Clear criteria for pain—infliction must be
established.

Criteria for judging pain-infliction should be
defined as clearly as possible. They presumably would
include some-such tests as the following:

a) The intensity of the suffering involved;
b) Its usual duration;

c) The number of animals affected;

1d) The feasibility of practical reform.

,‘h. A broader_ethics is imperative.

 

The ethical principles that will guide the work of
the Institute have been well expressed by Dr. Albert
Schweitzer; world-reknowned physician, minister and
philosopher:

‘ "Ethics in our western world has hitherto been
largely limited to the relation of man to man. But that
is a limited ethics. We need a boundless ethics which
will include the animal also."

And again: "What does reverence for life say about

the relations between men and the animal world? Whenever

I injure any kind of life I must be quite certain that

it is necessary. I must never go beyond the unavoidable. . .
"Those who experiment upon animals by surgery and

drugs, or inoculate them with diseases in order to be

able to help mankind by the results obtained, should

never quiet their consciences with the conviction that

their cruel action may in general have a worthy purpose.

 




- 7 -

In every single instance they must consider whether
it is really necessary to demand of an animal this
sacrifice for man, and they must take anxious care that
the pain be mitigated as far as possible . . . .

"By the very fact that animals through these pain-
ful experiences have contributed so much of value
to suffering mankind, a new and special bond of

salidarity has been established between them and us.

From this arises the obligation for each of us to

do every possible good to all animals everywhere."
5. New developments may mitigate animal suffering.

The Institute's emphasis throughout will be on the
needs of animals EEQ human beings. While recognizing the
present requirements of medical and scientific research,
for example, the Institute will at the same time investigate
and seek to foster developments in experimentation where-
by animal suffering may be minimized. Possible fields
of investigation might include:

a) Practical replacement in experiments
of the higher mammals by much lower forms

” of life (e.g., chicken embryos), with a
View to reducing the suffering undergone
by animals with highly developed nervous
systems.
b) The more efficient statistical design of
experiments so as to affect a systematic

economy in sampling.

 




- 8 _

c) The substitution of chemical and
physical criteria, whenever available, for
biological criteria, in assaying drugs.,
'9. The middle course must prevail.

The Institute believes that humanitarianism and
science, far from being antagonistic can and should
complement each other. It opposes, at one extreme, the
antivivisectionist position that would abolish all animal
experimentation, and, at the other extreme, that minority
position among scientists that dismisses as trivial the
problems raised by animal suffering.

It will proceed on the assumption that humane feelings
are as common to scientists as to any other group, and that
by informing the public and arbitrating between extremes,
the Institute can foster a climate favorable to scien-
tific progress and animal welfare.

As Dr. E. C. Stakman said last year in an address

as retiring president of the American Association for the

Advancement of Science:

"There is a need for more understanding and tolerance
between scientists and humanists: properly motivated,
all are humanists and their joint contribution can accel-
erate man's evolution toward intellectual enlightenment

and spiritual refinement."

 




OPERATION:

To achieve the purpose and spread the vieqaoint out~
lined above, even beyond the narrower scope of its direct operation,
the Institute will make surveys and studies of such matters as
these:

1. Practice:

Codes and pramices currently in effect governing

the handling and use of laboratory animals, as, for

example, the code promulgated by the National Institute

of Health for recipients of N}LH. grants.

2. Research needs:

Estimated medical and scientific research needs,

by types of animals; available sources, costs, etc.

3. Legislation:
State and local legislation, effective or pending,
involving treatment of animals or their procurement.
h. Techniques:
Investigation into methods whereby animals suffering
may be minimized and numerical requirements reduced.
The Institute will gather such information by various means.
Some will be gathered by its own staff. Some may be obtained by
the bestowal of grants-in-aid to qxalified scientific researchers.
Some material may best come through scientific round-tables,

symposia and the like, which the Institute will undertake u) arrange.

 




With this solid background of fact, the Institution will

function as:

 

A clearing-house of information on animal-welfare,
especially on the use of laboratory animals.

A source of data. For example, one of its first
projects will be a bibliography on the subject.

The center for a program of public and professional
information and education through the use of bulletins
and other media.

In its operation, the Institute will support the good work
done by other organizations, and enlist their aid in its own en-
deavors. Such organizations would include:

a) Departments of the Federal Government and of

State governments~

b) Humane societies.

c) Scientific and technical associations.

d) Conservation groups.

e) Livestock protection groups.

f) The recently formed Animal Care Panel.

g) All other bodies interested in animal welfare.

Throughout,the Institute will strive for professional and

public acceptance of the best in animal welfare, by providing a forum

 

and a clearinghouse for the legitimate claims of scientists and

humanitarians alike. The Institute believes that only by thus taking

 

account of all the facts can valid solutions to complex problems be

arrived at in a democratic society.

 




Enclosed you will find quotations from the September-October
1951 Bulletin of the National Society for Medical Research which
demonstrates an elasticity of mind so spectaculr that I thought
you might be interested in it. _

You will learn from one short paragraph in the editoral what

"the world struggle" is about and whose side you should be on:
that of "the people who proceed from a fundamental faith and trust
in their fellow beings."

If you have.digested this properly you will be filled with scorn

for the "negaitve impulse of suspicion" (which is on the wrong

side of the world struggle) and will turn your trusting eyes upon
the leading article of the Bulletin which begins: "Would 3 contribute
to a fund for three-headed orphans? No, you say. EmphatiualIy No:

But don't be so sure. Lots of Americans actually did, according to
an article in, "This eek." {byﬁ‘gﬂpavid Dressler." ‘ ,e

i”“ ‘ “ ‘ .A’ ‘lﬁﬁ&m% v “<eiwsaeseigsmaag.,

. ’: i; :-
A535,“, «6‘

the National Society or Medical Research isibertainly on the majority

in»-;“, sgde because 59% of the people who stOpped to investigate the appeal
”ffbr the three headed orphans demonstrated their fundamental faith
and trust in their fellow beings by making a contribution, whereas
their opponents in the world struggle whose suspicious nat e-Mewv
led them to detect the fraud numbered only two percent (And,
“MWWEEyWEyTWWEdwwouldmwantwto“ e classified with”tﬁd§e”€§ s "with whose
phulosophy go all of the negative impulses of suspicion, revenge,
and bad faith"? They're the kind of peOple who actually want
"regulations to prevent every possible mis-deed in the laboratory."

Of course, you mustn't think that the National Society for Medical
Research doesn't take a paternal interest in all those generous

and trusting people who put thder names on petitions and give

money away without finding out what it's abl about. The folks who
signed up or gave money to some of those practical jokes Dr. Dressler
dreamed up were just part of the family on.the right side of the
world struggle, and a little fun between friends, especially in the
interest of finding out important scientific facts is all right.

But the Society is deeply concerned about the people Who signed
petitions which indicate that they haven't got that complete faith
and trust in their fellow beings that they ought to have. As

you'll notice, some of them petitioned against the forced surrender
of unlimited numbers of dogs from the SPCA operated pound in
Baltimore. In case you haven't read any of these NSMR Bulletins
before, you'll need to know that SPCA's are really slaughterhouses
and that the names appearing on such a petition were either put there
without permission or the signer was an antievivisectionist.

I guess if you're on the right side of the world struggle you

couldn't possible approve of an organization for the prevention

of cruelty to animals because that would indicate a weakening in

your faith and trust in your fellow beings. Surely none of them

could ever be guilty of cruelty: But there are hundreds of societies
for the prevention of cruelty to animals(Which are not anti-vivisection
societies) in this country and in many other parts of the world

(except the USSR) including Great Britain, France, Switzerland,
Belgium, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Italy, Spain, Mexico, Canada,
Australia and others.

 




 




 




 




 




 




“S

.‘;Y‘\.;>

V1-
-\

1‘ 5-. .

.V-‘n ‘
| .
~

.1.
1.
n

~ .\

 




 




‘

-’v

,
.m.

A»)

 




 




\ ¢ V.
-v a” ’ it" '
M

Dear Major Hume,

Thank you for your letter of December 19th. We are very glad to
learn of the approval of the Committee of UFAW, and we will wish to
keep in close touch with you concerning our work.

I agree with your statement that it is regrettable that so much
attention has been given to the procurement problem as distinct from
the many other serious problems concerning laboratory animalsl Indeed f
the ardent activity in this area is such that it would be W
for the Animal Twelfare Institute to make voting membership availabl
through the simple payment of dues if the organization is to be kept
working towards the aims outlined in Mbookle ,. a

I should like to give you as clear an idea of the procurement
situation as possible as I believe it is one of the most important
differences between the general situation in the United States and
Great Britain. It is my understanding, in which you can perhaps correct me,
that in Great Britain the reSponsibility for the collection of lost and
stray animals is generally carried out by officials of local government.
In the United States, pounds, especially in large cities, are frequently
operated by SPCA's. Part 'of the expense of operation is usually provided
by dunds from dog license fees, but, in most cases, it is largely paid
for by private charity, and the pounds are operated under the name of
and in the spirit of the word "shelter". The public generally has learned
to regard these shelters ase the very core of SPCA's (whereas in Great
Britain, it is my impression that the RSPCA is chiefly known for its
work in the investigation of alleged cruelty). For this reason, should

ch SPCA shelters be forced to act as procurement depots for laboratories,
major part of their work would be in direct contradiction to the
purpose for which the Societies were founded. Not only would they be
unethical if they continued to encourage the public to turn over lost
an umoIanted animals to them as protective agencies if these same animals
were. then to be released for painful experimentation, but such action
would W increase the amount of painful experimentation
on dogs and cats.
and 6000 cats
In Great Britain, I note that approximately 2000 dogs ﬁwere used
by laboratories during the past year. According to the New York State
Society for Medical Research, 25000/ dogs and cats are wanted for experimentation
in New York in the coming year. The number of laboratories in Great
Britain and in New York State, are roughly the same , ab9ut 1:50. i .5;
r 3,”! Q34“; £1“, Q73~ were» n %R 553; _, 3M 5’1 xf’ e 4,215” ‘5“? “j
A further purely practical problem is that of adequately
controlling the stray animal pepulation which can only be done humanely
through cooperation with the public. There can be little doubt but that
the average person who is sufficiently interested in animal welfare to
cooperate in bringing a homeless animal to a shelter would hesitate to
bring that same animal to a laboratory, or to a center which would release
the animal for. xperimental use. Therefore, the old system of dog—catching,
repugnant as itihas been in so many cases, would be expected to be reinstated.
« 2 1

Ir ‘
[W .2“: .. 3. 2
,.

u-

a

.1
1‘
a
5. 1w ,;
> . ..-'~«_ ‘ 9* 2
" ‘9' ‘ t: ’E P =‘vi’rr'xc.
‘.;. E'uak‘hwwk
Q , 7, .. , 1.? i
,\ v; " 1." ‘1 ‘3.
1-: 3' :3 g
5
1r

 




”3/,

I do not feel, however, that it is necessary to adhere absolutely to

the theorem that no animal from a public pound should ever enter a laboratory.
Mr. Ricardo, a member of the Institute is advisory bomdttee, worked out

very recently an arrangement whereby dogs which would otherwise be destroyed
at the Vancouver pound should be made available under certain conditions to
laboratories for use in acute experciments under full anaesthesia. Cooperation
is being extended to Mr. Ricardo by medical authorities in Vancouver to

work with them in preventing unnecessg~ ”suffering to animals undergoing
chronic experimentation. None of thes‘éi’ayﬁtimals , however, will come from the
pound but will be raised for the purpose. In effect, destruction d? those
animals which cannot be restored to their owners or placed in a new home

will be carried out in a laboratory rather than at the pound. I do not Imam
how this will work out in practice, but it seems to me to be a sound solutionﬁ
to a part of the procurement proble . It has, of course, been attacked by
anti-vivisectionists.

 




ta
ion

J

C. l

P”

ject
rt of

1e

do

«ml

1,
.C

Cﬁﬂmg
'I
m
{AU—1.
VT
4.; ,
T301}.

Ame

of two

Om

tory a

A.
L
~ “r“-
.5-
W e
5..

r
C

cow or
vagited t

‘-."
4
-

A
L“) 1

1nrer
e of Lon

'rther extensien of

re
)Or

q
.xv‘
. .\

(:2,
. |_
p
I i
,
'
1

I'k
,4‘
i

a
{O

M
f
(

as laboratories.

c
'r
of
we used Others

f
"a
V
L

C
1

L

F: .
T7

Q
h
f
i
t

muQVG
t

C»
i
e
,
7"}
L.

{'1
.. .L.
YKT

I

a 1‘) c; S

»1 ' 1
V fu

I1
never

+
V‘
ea

CUL

e S hum
1 CC C
m. Q .1

er
a 10:

3t
.ent,

1‘.
w

in

$103

3“
. .4
ml

ii) ‘

-W 0r
Pf)“
W

. J

g
1
"4
I)
<
-.

f‘
f
‘

{3

('t

A .4
lﬁea

to

..\_ -
-.V‘.
“L

.,

C
numoerw

-rmit

,
..
-4
.e
,1

3100p

L

(33
able so“

('1
C?
U 5

‘—

Ara
‘2 ‘ $0“ :-
Witﬂ LﬁVQI”

‘;
l

a
Y.“
5. .,
r .t

..

“we

UV

‘Wmlﬁ
Tﬁ.

1;.
as
r:

,!

La
‘3
J
rwt-
~.,,‘ A

1"
,_.

{“1 f‘ V“:
\c-J' ‘ I '
(3'- 'V'h
'wl‘ .3.
J.

@U

00V'
6

,
I
LJ:

t3
z“
\,.. J‘, ‘ .»..
.f’n t ,
. 1 Cf <73“? ‘
m ,[Lﬂﬁuu

1-.—
‘.
0

 




 




Dr. Per K. Frelich
Merck and 00., Inc.
Rehwey, New Jereey

T
l

1‘1 « 1
leer Dr. wrollcn,

Thank you for your letter cf August 27. YOur comments
an the netee for a creenectue for the Animal Welfare Institute
are euerecieted, but I muet ccnfeee that your reference to
”many exietinﬁ organizatione with eimilar aims” is not
clear te me. It would be meet helpful if you could list

Some of them for me. Thanking fen for your assistance, I am

 




a.

i"; 1'“ .

, ‘t
"2;“ ~13 w 1‘
,.. x (a ,1 .3 x

w

a
._
L .

1 A

, k

wt ..

4 (“q "M

‘3:

’V‘

i h a

k...-

C"
'I'"

for

W.»
mu
*1”

.V‘
/ “i

 




Dr. w.s. Young
Anti~Cruelty Society
15? West Grand Ave.
Chicagog 10, III.

Dear Dr. Young,

Thank you for your encouraging letter of August 15
end for the useful information contained therein. I was
sled to reed ﬁber cooy of the speech which you sent on, end
I, of course, agree with y u that the whole prohmem must
he faced squarely and with firmness.

"I

In reading the renort of the senate Sub-committee
on the dog nrocurement bill for the District of Columbia
which Was nresented two years ago, I was interested in a
statement by Mr. Richards in which he quoted figures showing
s very considerable decline in the
by the dog hound sfter the nessege of the Arvey Ordinance,
and I would like to get a definite check on this. Do you
have figures available on the numher of animals hsndled by
the sound prior to end suhseouent to the Arvey Ordinance,
end, if not, weuld you suggest thet I write to the noundmaster
for such figures? I should also be interested to know whether.
the number of animals brought to the ﬁnti-Cruelty Shelter or
nicked up on cell increased or what, in short, happened to the
extra dogs if Mr. Richards isﬁcorrect in saying that public
cooperation with the dog hound decreased owing to the
ordinance. The extreme severity of the Illinois bill this
year as it was first presented would seem to indicate that
the nroponents thought there were too many loonholes in the
drvey Ordinance. In what year did the Arvey Ordinance go
into effect?

I thought you wrote uo the summary of hill 490
very well in vour ﬁrogéessiBulletingﬁsndryouswere; dd thunsegy
corredtrinfrefreiningifromotheouse of proper names.

Sincerely,

 




ﬁcﬂlv
'3' .. ., ‘ ..
Univeralty p30&wiruﬁfurwl

urn a ‘ ~ ”1*
.. ' "' H . .. 4 .. '.L ,A 1‘“? $7.. f.:)({44 Iii/1:: (3V?

.4‘.

. i...»

C) if” 5‘ 11 1 J c t 7
,l . x .. T)€ jr {‘3 11""! ”f“, 37' it) e

..,.,L ..
s§xm‘bwmv 90

“LET?” ﬁu Tlﬂhed

\.
sewrnn n“”tio*.

z“ w».-

.

\ !"
..

A‘. u‘ 5 .‘ ‘ A, , . . , jr 1 ~. X'IIOIE:
( j t n v ' . - . . ‘ » ~ .. r ” .

?mlm<war

-1.—

... . .1 1 i” .‘1 "‘1
. -_.-vy\.~',
u, - 1.x. I OJ. 1;).

.thriea ﬂ M
-%ﬂ@mﬂ%ﬁéﬁﬂ.

 




. 19 W.
)9 iﬁPI“?O
13 FLAtﬁeﬂtH
19 $99901

{‘ ”‘97 (:3 i'~
1}“? C73 '3 Z

?
5-.-
I“:

D999 MT.

99V9 9t 1999 999 99 999 vour point
HlQ1WblUﬂ, thft 1c tﬂaf TWP SﬁﬁtQmGNt

l 1" 1" 1 t L“ "‘
(737.11%,er - "2:11 It“

|

”9
99919 9, 191 9: ”OLYMPl to indicate 99 indiscriminate
A

37
LT
'11

,.0v.l o1 1 99 193 19lat199 *Uich of cour:e,

19 19+ 1999. moxiver . do 9199 to 99 k9 my9elf clear to

m: at 199 19 199$ I be119V9 9dequate reaulation of
9999rim9mtubior to be 99999tial revqrolu 9 of the source
9f2t99 9919919. Actually, it 19 even more important 90 far
99 the welfnra of @ogs 996 cats are oncerned where 19999
991m9l9 999 999119 9Va1l9ble in large 999 ntities becau99
99999 999 99199 9999 999 not even 9‘ubject to 909991
909909 9 909trol under t9,99 circums t.nces . Therefore,

I 999919 99 éeli9hted to h9ve 9 oefinite code for the
999 996 9999 of iaooratory 991m919 9dowted anywhere
9999911991 oi Whether I 9? proveé or 919999roved oi the
loC9l 1991919t109 DOVPIﬁink tne 909908 of animaM

N9V99t99199" 9ince the9e 90909 bring unde9ir8 ble
imwlication9 to your mind, I tnLnk they 990919 oe dTOpped
£999 the 9919996 9?“ 990tus 99 tnev ertcirlj are not
V 3. $133.1. 0

I 919 9 to go to Cleveland, 999 I hope we will
99ve 9 099909 to 9190999 the whole 9ubjeot.

Sincerely,

 




»uwa ck
Leayue of Beaten

l8

come Over
3 enjoy

mummy?» 93;?wa to be umza'bfie to

.mp9. hzttr 13k on Amritﬁ but I d1
meetinw evam taourh 3t vrr SO bwi P
PPWVEE {Em t war. of the Gauntww Libg"E and
how véry 3 . 3 ’ 3 7., T.t* t0-
gummmr .'.~‘3J,~ '3, ‘ ‘ J: _ n nyi, 38
ﬁﬂflt I

I ,3
L a

worm: ity to
irt E393 it“ you in

I
.1.

chail have to by ve
welfare Inﬁtituﬁe

(‘3 -'
--,. 1/3 "x .3 v; ‘E
5-. 33-31, 4 £4 {1 T It. 4.. 3f 5

 




Mr. Erwin D. Canham, Editor
The Christi n Science Monitor

(‘5
(:3!
‘5“) 4. \ f?‘
Doston, bass.

Dear Mr. Canham,

Thank you for your kind letter of August 22 in
resoonse to my requestfor comments on the Animal Welfare
Institute. I feel that the Christian Science Monitor
fulfilled a very important function in publishing the
series of articles which renorted the conflicting views
of different organizations interested in the laboratory
animal nrohlem.

There is a further need for disinterested study
of exoerimental practices and the quarters and care accorded
animals so that some discrimination may be exercised in
dealing with the problem without recourse to the loose
generalizations which are too often put forward on both
sides of the disnute. While there is no perfect answer
to the questions involved, Great Britain, which has had
sound regulatory legislation since 1876 and where a
society exists (The Universities Federation for Animal
’enfare) which is soecifically interested in humane
safeguards for the use of laboratory animals, has made
considerable advances in the field.

, F"
x,‘

7'
t

I: is my hone that the Animal Welfare Institute,
an organization which is not burdened with commitments
which create obstacles to disinterested action can
assist in developing a sounder attitude and better
methods of dealing with the nrohlem. I believe it can
if it receives the necessary moral sunport and cooperation,
and I am therefore most grateful for your exnression of
interest in our objectives.

Sincerely,

 




 

Dr. R.A. Keleer

The Echeel of VeterinArv
Univerg jtv of DAMUUJIVQH
Tails 5e15h1A 4, PA.

1::1
(D
' z
{D
f)
H.
(S
(D

Dear Dr. Heleer,

TQ1U§ you for your letter of AuguA t 15 regArding
t e AnimAl welfare Insitute. The neggative Ate ternent with
WCiCﬂ you elee. your letter: "Eueh 1A55V15u 1A and inetitutiens
Am Aure, hwve no 5eAire to utilize AnimAlA unneceAgArily
I to AA AA unnecessary main or Augfering,” would indicate
he ﬁxiﬁibinCV of 1pt550A1151 them in A positive "‘UTOQCh
A Areblem 0f 1.AeorAtory animAl welfare.

5,1 13
m

A the Animol AelfAre InAitute to

AL5 to ene ourage greeter conei5erAtion
e15AAAAed in practical terme . I am

at tee mere fact that research workere
M to erov15e

(
C -
footer A1ch A; atti'

fov quor Ejgrv A imﬁlA~ ,
v
Aure Fem A111 5E th”

 
 

Q

r
Are not motlv ’A5
A Amun5 wujreﬂ+ee

”fig“will he uAaémwwww,J

 

 

   

AAAA wwkﬂ A :51 A? zacpx.agAi RA t AAAte en5 the umerouo
AAUAAA 51 names 5TV Aufferin5 We AQHT5 weTeJne yaur

eswa; .
COAAAAatzen in tAA 5eve lepmept of A sound, DOSitiV AAQTOACA
to the Areblem.

 




MP. Syjney H. Coleman

4A 0 E: 0 T’ o C o if}: .

York Ave. end E, 92nd Sta
New Yank 28, New York

Sear Mr. Coleman,

Then“ you for your letter of August 8. We
qeﬂ at the nreeent time in the collection
‘*”e;m~tlen Qlenw a bearing on laboratory animals.
,J oi couree, cerrect in assuming that conferences
the ne‘nLn entetive e9 of different erﬁuno are neceze ery,
would welcome Huwee tjone from VOU CO acernlng GETS one
Mﬁef you ' . iWuorta mt to Confer.

no+ reee eiW d :,ny communication from
>Jemv 0f edec in e, but I eheulé, of
Lheil intereet, ané tymev will 0e on
seen es we have rambleted the
Unin+ ed {H‘Q "eectu

Sincerely,

 




Mr. Gerald Dalmadge

Palo Alto Humane Society
48 Univereity Ave.

Pele Alto, California

Dear Mr. Dilmeﬂee,

Thank you for vour nice letter concerning
the Animal Welfare Inetitute. I most sincerely hope
that our efforts will meet with success, but the
task is ee you can see, a very la mrge one, end we
need all the oeln we can get. Ne are netureliy
orriove to interest ecientiete in different narte of
the country in our work, and I should welcome any

which you might have concerning meoicel
men rnﬁ b1olooiete with whom you mi1ht be ac ueinted
throuen a mutual interest in enime lwelfere. ﬁg
1112’121/1111111/1’111’1115 I/z/fyfséz/Mﬁ/yw wield ’ﬁd/ﬁﬁéM/we
féﬁiiéﬁ/fﬁ/GZWéZ/MU

Sincerely,

 




1. 8111111111. C111 111 11111111t11n

t

11101111111 11 311‘111 11 11 111n¢ 01111 ction of belief
1111 thi1 111 11101 t1 the 111 of 111 1111111.

Numb1r of 1111111 3111111 by 11% £111h werker1 in NY
111. 10,000? 30,000? 10,009?

. 1‘111111 tﬁly what 111111t111 11 1,,1. a- for non~1urV1v11
1111r1m1nt1?

111111 for 1uch great expansian of the

1. 111 10111111 of SPCA’1 111 hummn1 10011t111. Legislating them
out of 1t11y f1111 in which thev have done 1 :001 job.

7. D11‘1‘1«nw 1111111 Fﬁ*3-V1V1“FCTiﬁnl t 0110011111 to
111(1111111 11111 and 110‘ 0111111111 thereto.

1. U111111ian of procur1m1nt «1 ‘ 1 1;.; to non—1urviv11
1111r1ment1 u11er 1111 1111111 ‘

1. Numb1r Of 1111rim1nt1 My NY 1 1 1 11 L~ Linqrwc with
1111111 W 1111111111‘j 11H1 number 1f 1 .J “morqtor11 )

10; Extent t1 which 1011 111 1111 1'1 want11 by commercial
1111': 1110.

. . 3.: ..
1151. Cornell 110.

of 1031 11 11/111111“

11011v11 from 01 1111111 11 NY St1t1. To what extent
" iDVS t3£”t d? Secretary Of NY Society fer
11m1 from 111 of 11111

1yStem 1im131r ; 1 1tem whcveny
provide full Q11 '

 




LORD, DAY _& LORD

2 5 B R O A D W A Y CABLE ADDRESS
FRANKLIN B- LORD LORDATTY

ALLAN B.A.BRADLEY

ALLEN EVARTS FOSTER N E w YO R K 4 NEW YORK
PARKER MCCOLLESTER

SHERMAN BALDWIN CUNARD BUILDING ——

JAMES S- HEMINGWAY

HERBERT BROWNELL,JR. WASHINGTON OFF'CE
LOUIS M. LOEB

THOMAS F. DALY TOWER BUILDING
HARRY a. RUDICK WASHINGTON 5, D. C.
KENNETH E.RYAN
JOHN D- GARRISON
CHARLES w. MERRITT
JOSEPH w. WYATT
GARRARD w. GLENN
HENRY c- BLACKISTON
FRANKLIN B.LORD,.JR.

August

Mrs. Ro er L. Stevens
R.F.D. 1
Ann Arbor,.Miohigan

Re: Animal Welfare Institute
My dear Mrs. Stevens:

As I wrote you on July 17, 1951, the Division
of Laboratories and Research, New York State Depart-
ment of Health has been engaged in preparing a list
of the laboratories and institutions approved by the
State Commissioner of Health for the use of living
animals in scientific tests, experiments and investi-
gations.

The list was recently completed, and I am now
enclosing a copy as you requested.

My wife and I spent a delightful holiday in and
around Leland, Michigan during the last two weeks.
Unfortunately, we did not get a chance to step by
Ann Arbor for a call as Mr. Clancy so kindly suggested.

Sincerely yours,

MAW/i

RAH:LLH
Enc.

 




f

ZE‘he a J
3‘,

Care
iicago

Dr. J R Erewer
i
5‘:

. 3
mal
t C?
l

73‘; 7: Vi‘ . a

i. ~' My "1“
Chicago 1

Li, .

Dear Dr. Brewer,

Thank you for your letter of August 8. I am glad-
to find that we are in agreement on a number of points
including the need for humane work in the care of laboratory
animals, and the invitation which you extend in behalf of
the Enimal Care Panel to join it in such work is accented
with the hope that in this field much can be accomplished
through wider distribution of information, better animal
ouarters, and better training of those resoonsihle for the
care of animals in laboratories.

I should like to reply to the objections which you
raise to a few of the statements in the notes for a prospectus
which I sent you without attempting to go into great detail
at this time. I quite agree with you that the desire to find
curesfor disease is a humane objective. However, when you
state that "sincere humanitarisns are not having their work
made more difficult by medical scientists", I must point out
to you that there has nrohahly been no occurrence during the
entire history of the humane movement which has caused as
wide spreadiafihaienﬁﬁmtowpractical humanitarians as thqnw

> raised by the introduction of procurement bills.

Animal welfare societies are incornorated as non-profit
corporations for the prevention of cruelty to animals. Many
of them operate shelters. Some were specifically founded in
order to reduce the suffering involved in the old fashioned
dog-catcher-dog-pound system which often resulted in great
abuses. They desire therefore to continue their shelter work.‘
Under procurement bills as currently drafted, they have a
choice of three expedients: 1) Give up the work and let the
city handle it, 2) Disohey the law, 3) Violate their charters.
None of these choices depend upon opinions which may be held
on the merits or demerits of animal-experimentation by members
of the society. Every sizeable sottety contains within its
membership persons strongly in favor of animal experimentation,
anti—vivisectionists, and persons Without any urgent convictions
on the subject.

I do not feel that a contention such as you seem to imply
when you ask if the medical group should compromise and only
save half a million diabetics instead of a whole million is
one which could he sustained in a scientific analysis of the
problems involved. The experiments of Banting and Best which have
been very thoroughly publicized as involving 20 or 50 degs and
benefitting countless human beings do not support ﬁrm: thesis
that unlimited numbers of dogs are necessary to the making of
important discoveries.

 




9f cour9e§ I em ewere th9t other doeg 9 3
involved in preliminary 9tudie9 ecich M” “"““~133“‘.
the femou9 experiment9. However, the worX of Dr. inn L would
heve been neither more nor lees beneficial to diabetics if
he had used 9 few hundred doge. If he hed actually used
eeverel hunclred does, everyone would prooeoly heve leaped to
the conclusion (for wnich no scientific controls would have
been 9vciileble) that the diecovery could never heve been made
he hed been limited by the number of animals available.
I uee thie example since you mentioned diabetes, but it
We 1iceble to other worX 99 well. There is a prevalent
lief in meny brenchee oi our culture tne t if only we can
.ve more it will be better, out in ectuel nrectice, quantity
not neceeoerilv lead to ouelitve Quite often the revere e
I therefore cannot agree that an unlimited euonly
and cats will reeult in the cure of one million
limited e1only will reeult in the cure of half

{C}

O (B
G)

{D “*3 (I)

99099599
:0
. :3

S

I belie ave thet e cmreful study of orocurement orobleme
encomcenied oy e careful 9tudy of rroper safeguards in the
uee of enimele can result in a reasonable solution to the
nrobleme involved.

rd to the list sentence in vour letter, I c1n

In 99
r t the Animel Welfare Inetitute hee no connection

‘3': E; eure VOW: $4.3.
r1” 1,:

M."

£51.,
119
_teoever with 9ny enti-vivieection eociety.

Sincerely,

 




:vcn:
‘Er1vx::“q
'r210$i_
<1. {1:113:31 age .,
‘.SﬁectUﬂ,~‘
You will neriit‘mcg mmwgver, ,1 exwre¢$ gurnriﬁe
thwﬂ Jha remreaanta ; 1 Q? a lgaéing nanufacturﬁr of
T3biQF vaccing when 6 am: am little DOSit e intereat

I

1,
A. pg n..- » -~ ..‘ ,~ (N, .3 1.”. v x “‘ u" I. ”‘ 1" ""' ' ~ ' . ‘
mr&&n:Amt:aﬁ .=9 1:“ welfareof lamayatw y :41malg‘

 




Mrs. M.M. Rowland
408 Mansion Ave.
SPCA

Ogdenshurg, New York

Dear Mrs. Howland,

Thank you for your letter of Seotemher 2. I should
he most interested to learn more about the kennels whi ch
you refer to in your letter. I assume that the animals
housed there are intended for use in laboratoreis. I should
be interested to know the hummer“ of dugs you h2ve found
there on your visits and any details which you may have
concerning their shioment, the amount paid for animals,
who brings them there, and anything else relating to the
situation which you wish to forward to, me. I cannot oromise
to give you direct assistance, out if you can tell me
what stens you and the Sheriff' s deoertment have taken
towards the imorovement of conditions of housing and feeding
at these kennels and in connection wit h animals susoected
of having been stolen, I will a.ttemnt to obtain sound
edvice on the proper means to be used to oorrédt the situation.

A nrinted orosnectus for the Animal Welfare Institute
in orocess of orenaration, and one will be mailed to
as soon as it is ready. It is a national organization
icelly interetceo in reducing animal suffering in
reori*c and in the develonment of practical methods
woereoy the sun; I of animals used may he reduced. The
tures which you have sent are a strong indication that
snimsls are in need of help prior to their arrival in
laboratories also.

I fully realize the difficulties under which you are

working in revivina e soolecy Which hes ween alloweu cu
.Luyutz. lilo Humane £13001: {,3 vi WGniDLLt/Oliumn County Of Wi’llCn i am

retary was area tiy in need OI improvement a few years
ag_, and there was much uphill worn until one €XC€€GlU&iy
ﬁeneicus individual ouiit us e fine new shelter which has
mace a trcncnoou difference in our ability to ca re for
homeless animals. We have also found a weekly radio orogram which
costs not'ing at all,since local radio stations will donate
time as a nuhlic service, to be very helpful in the placement
of animals for adootion. The distribution of educationel booklets
and pictures to the schools in the county is another inexpensive
and, I believe, very rewarding cart of humane work.

I shell look forward to hearing from you, and win
success in your work.

Sincerely,

 




1 {~43
7'; U

wi r333

Seota ur3ﬂu Le
e Sote

SSSLOLLSSuer,

Thank you for :«our 1e LLer of AuguSL 6
“”1ur11S11 * S (TW‘“Y€11 3:1 33 1113:1ng<3f 01* S1312SL3¢33S
iSLemnSoSg ‘S 13womoL m1 Sn NHL The lDfOTP‘thh WSS noL
"" ‘ ‘ W1LL: one exoeSLion; LSSL LSe rules
,LSS Iar11eao Medical ASSOCIS

Shall look fOPWFTﬁ Lo reaﬂv'

of "CSPSQt
SS1SS SJSS

“~34
w

G) C“ ~11 (1’)

3U“h LSerS a_ SS you ooiSL
3? ‘:11- wSiSS e=e
in Some SS3 C3 of
involveo ttf'w‘n, 1 ’
SSS COM LSSSWClVS S; .M .
331Hor Lory SSLSS. , M S 1 ‘ “S LSe Animal
LiLuLe :roooreo Lo unjerLS1 . t3e purpoe e
iLuLe to work wiLS “1 1 . 3;” ”A .1 S3d to
311 “P80 1 3, 1o 1 v; which Lhev
Spoor“ S“ UPSSL1F C)““13 S: ."w N1tory
So SOL t1lﬂk LS1L sue S Sor: 13 S ; well SS

.4
I

oy'e1 1331316; 1S311r161n~1, L1owe

TS; zformSLion wSie SS I SS.Ve rec Seived ooncero1na
SSSTSS of S1xmw1v uS3.er LSS klnn SoLS Procurement law
L entirely clear. I uno ersts no LSSL the ESyo Clinic
SSSll number of other lab ozatories are licenSed Lo
rSoeive SSLSSlS from pounds in plnue SoLS.. I Shoulﬁ be
Stewegteﬂ in m Sowir g from which SouSoS you receive aniu&lS

Sue SSSLSSP LS SrrSSgemeSL SSS been worked ouL to the
Satisfaction 01 all concerned.

Your fort Sright SLSLSSSSLS in the Animal Care
me to oelieve LSSL you take . very active profeeSiOSSl
S the ‘3SndliSS of lSSorSLory 1Simsje-., S1o I Shall
reoeﬁ we 8 my furLSer Sumee L11 SS or advice which
Lo offer Se S13iLe the fact LSS I camn oL Sccent
ion LSSL LSe AS1SS]- elfare In L'L uLe be 51S swolv c1,
Sincerely,

you SS3;
Sour

O
t
S

I")

(71» 1:3” (:1-
CL“:

:1
PL
“1

(D i—J‘ CA: {”4" Ch

 




‘1‘5 ‘ r , .1... ¢
MT. Tam Fuszi ce
0

\

The Humane in
2? H. May St.
Columbue 1%, Ghio

‘ety of the City of Columbue

ate Mr. Justice,

Thank yen fix your liinﬂ letter Ieeerﬁing the ﬁnimal
e.lfere Inetitmx‘e. The a“ ice of Mr. Seller and of a
emall number 01 others in1e humane movement I-Mée eought
teeeernlnw the wﬁele erobl and on the advice received,
the mnemdl welfare ”netLtHue wee f rmed. Commente which
I have received from h mp teriene have been encwnrec n3,

1

Jlnee ely,

 




Dr. Gustav Eckstein
College of Medecine
Cincinnati, Ohio

Dear Dr. Eckstein,

You seio so very much more in declinzing to
comment on the Animal Welfare Institute than anyone else
did even in comments three times as long that it is
impose ble for me to comoletely ﬁres the matter, inconsiderate
as it may be to ail to do so. baturally, I entirely respect
your reouest to be left out of it actively or publicly,
but I know that you have given the oroblem the Kine of
serious thought which I cannot do without. And so I would
like to ask you not to comoletely forget what we are trying
to do even though you heve little faith in the efficacy of
organizations or of rules. Frankly, I have not too much
faith in them either, and I do agree with you that the
oroblem is essentially an ineividuel matter. But when you
say that it may nerhaos remein fairly oermsnently in flux,
then I must explain that this flux is just the reason for
the formetion of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Aniwal exoerimentation is no longer a small

scale intellectual oursuit. ' part of the lively letter I
received from a breeder rea .: ”If I were to accent the
ouotstion by Schweitzer, I oulﬁ be looked upon as the
lowest creature on earth, f I oersonally have been
eirectly instrumental in or ducing and suoolying the
fielo of research with millions of small animals." Its
enormous exoansion has removed the problem from its
rather cloistered former atmosphere. With the great
oublicity given to animal exoerimentation, e soeciel kind
of callousnees is being built up along with an almost

eligious belief in its efficacy. "Your baby or your dog?
favorite approach in procurement battles, is based on
a primitive belief of great antiquity in the ices of
sacrifice. This sort of ﬁrematisation Which excludes a
thoughtful eonroach serves to justify the secono rate
along with the first rate without discrimination.

I do not question your remark that "scientists
of the largest mold have inside themselves been concerned

with the problem." But toﬁay the scientists of largest

mold form an ever decreasing percentage of the total
number of oeonle responsible for carrying on exocriments
ano tests and essays on animals.

 




Eoreover, even greet scientists can be swept into the

kinﬂ of aggressive movement characteristic of this century
which, with en ioeslism which makes it ruthless, pushes
forward to e single goel regardless of the siﬁe effects of

the crusade. I believe that the SPCA‘s deserve s chance to go
forward with.the work they have begun, end I am unable to

see that experimental biology in Great Britain hes been harmed
by sound regulation. most of all, I believe thet animals are
individuals and not simoly a mass of biOIOgical material.

1, . ._ .l .[uﬁw ,_
a ,_ .§_.. , - A.”

‘ Qﬁs’", '- . 1% enclos'ng a reprint of a
lecture of my fether's, parts of which sneak ofémﬁreettitudetl
toyenimsls,es I thought you might like to reed it.

I hope that the workzwhich you Loeer Q in your letter
is of e Kine which will be tuhlished, for, not only Go I
weesaasexe Mr/eeW/Wr ./1252<af‘e€2< /
tremendously enjoy reading your nooks, but I think they have
an important infleence on the welfareof animals.

Sincerely,

 




B‘Wrnt 9.3-.

one uﬂﬁ1ﬂﬂmav
n u
Niehieen

for Vﬁnw letter eommentin on th.e ﬁnime-
.1ut.e emu your R111 eX1re e51 14am of symeethy

Yﬁu W111 heve meted thet we eve interested in
51i11011n “ eoﬁe for the 1roper use of laboratory
awimelef enﬁ in Vievi of your reference to 1ntelligent
weduiyemenﬂe 1e to 11m1e 11‘ t1e entm‘lo 811 39 to humane
eaves I eheulﬂ verv 1:1ueh 11ere310+e further elaboration
frem you em 1111 ez11b3ect ee well He W cwgeev+1ene wnich
Veum1j1t have concer11ng the oes t methﬁd for the
eﬁuee.tion of “rov1e reeooneiele for the uee of laboratory
reimele.

on
In ream r1 to 1911111111 fag¢¢11¢1/1he eroeure e1me1t of
5F?» ““5 “Hts, I oe net oeﬂi

.1

. 1 5k" ”.2. . a ., , .:3 .». “1.2;,3“._.r “Km-g - ;.._--_-. . -."'*"p.~,.'1 . . .

eve e hee bee. given

e1eeeewsw11111% A “reef eeel 01 111, money, neweeriht
eer1memy have been need in legibletlveﬁbettiee be theee
" “ ‘ where they beve been “"~»1‘ the el1e- effeote
not given 1Wooe1 011<1aew in 116 be ginnlng
create eerieue reoareue e- _ T11e orocuzement
complex One weioh ee nno '" et in tee same
loeelitieeg 11111 .1. 1 oelieve, be
Xe enﬁ more

of £11 evneo,o of the eroolem are ueed.

I appreciated the forthrightness of your letter and
hope I may have the benefit 0? your advice.

0

$1110 Tiff;

 




Dr. A.N. Richards

School of Medicine
University of Penneylvemie
Phileﬁelohies &5 Fe.

Deer Dr. Richards,

Thank you for your letter of Auguet 5 referring
i

l Animal Welfare Iheitute. Officiele of t1e National
iocwety for Medical Research and the ﬁnimel Cere Panel
ere, of cooree, included in the mailing of the notes for
a prospectue, one of which you received.

I wee glad to receive your expression of sympathy
with the aims exoreeeed in theee notes and woulo welcome
your cooperation in giving them practical fulfillment.

A reeooneiole attitude of reel coneideretion for laboratory
eoimele ie, I believe, an important pert of the education
of medical etuoente. I mention thie aspect of the work
which the Animal Welfare Inetitute deeires to foster as

it is one in which I felt you might take a oerticuler
intereet.

Sincerely,

 




Mr. Harry G. Herlein
Rockland Farms

New City, Rockland County,
New York

Dear Mr. Herrlein,

Thank you for your letter of August 6 relative
to the Animal Welfare Insitute. I am sorry that you were
unable to obtain the listing for the telephone at the
time youncalled. The number is Judson 6-5180.

The interest of the Animal Welfare Institute
includes all species of animals. It is my impression from
your published work and statements at the Animal Care
Panelthat you have a definite interest in the proper care
of laboratory animals. You perhaps do not agree that
consideration 6f such animals as individuals rather than
as a mass of exnerimental material is an important aid
conducive to such proper care since you take excention
to statements by Dr. Schweitzer. Nevertheless, the signs
which you have used in attempting to gain nroper consideration
for shipments of live animals on the part of transportation
employees are aimed in this direction. You make a bid for
direct sympathy with the animals expressed at the mental
level whioh you believe to be most effective in guaranteeing
safe delivery. In regard to such problems have you ever
attempted a prosecution for cruelty to animals? If animals
for which you are responsible are actually being_killed by
irresponsible exnosure, I see no reason why you should
take a passive attitude about it.

Mental suffering as perhaps less frequently
present under laboratory conditions for small animals which
have been bred for the purpose than in such animals as
monkeys, dogs and cats which have been removed from a
natural into a controlled existence. However, in view of
the fact that studies in comparative psychology indicate
a very considerable development of intelligence in some
rodents, this problem cannot be properly overlooked in any
broad pr0gram of laboratory animal welfare.

I should be interested to Know to what extent
you have suffered from the activities of anti-vivisection
societies. It is my Opinion that a frank and sincere attempt
on the part of those who are responsible for laboratory
animals to provide for their welfare is the soundest solution
to such problems.

Sincerely,

 




a" I, N
9%. Omar?

Tha CﬁRE
1@@ rug

an."
I... ~ 6 "1‘

J.

5

war 9T0 Jay,

' a .9.
Thank yam far your nae

"? " ‘ 3 av *3" 1 45" .*r. a T'V’W ..
_‘ ‘3 31127 .-,?:?-‘:_2.1 «‘6 J" .L 3.11:: A.” ?-‘

étJar “f“;nﬁgiat 13

'f. r
J - ~~ . .0 . ,3 ’3 ' ’2“
L axte kﬁv LQT you1 xlnv
a ‘ ,. - f" {a J. ‘1' ’2 - . ‘1 ,-..
10m t6 nae Lha cchweibzez qustnulwnc

('1‘.

J

letter ts Dr, ﬁchweitze?

I ‘I
('1' ,‘\ 1

:7 m). 1"

 




D. Gwem

i L~Muy tariwg 0f Eiolaﬁv
Ii IW«+it&t@ 0f Te chmaléVV
as; Califarni kﬁ

1”
3

1:

Dear Dre @wam,

_ fer your ﬁtter 0f uuyuof IE I8”’““7nﬂ
Inst‘; tr ta. I h: Ve been twld tm“t the
t1;@ C971fnw 41a Ingtitzte of Techrm QIOVV
aha maintained. WU

praapectug are

Your commentg on tha xv gs far hr:
I the work of ﬁne
(‘2!

It 1% my have thmt I:rouwh

the cooperation of FiO 1dr: ts that Qﬂlhtl
utorieg may be be? efitt ed :0 the extent that
ﬂurrcunﬁing the whola problem may be

Sinceraly,

 




the gaoioactive Truth

é,” Radioactivity 1e well-known for the curioue chanaee it
can'effect in normal organieme. Perhaps it ehoulo not come as a
ennpriee, than, to fine that "the radioactive truth", which la the
kind of truth the National nociety for Medical Research says it
wante to uee to educate the oublic, differs garkély, on occasion,
from the old—fashioned, simple variety which is based on facts.

Seekere after "The Truth" have not infrequently. in the
course of nietory, run afoul of annoying facts, which. in their
enthuelaem for the ultimate Truth, they have felt it justifiable
to ignore or to deny. A wealth of examples of this unfortunate
tenoency are to be found in reading material recommenoeo by the
National ﬁociety for Medical Research. Three examples, accompanied
by oorrectione, are quoted below in the hope that those who have
been underetandably charmed by the eupernaturally logical perfection
of eome of the talee they have been told, will, in future, examine
these somewhat more carefully before passing them on to others.

1) "In other etatee, except where anieal‘eXperimente are
prohibited (Kaine), laboratories buy dogs....etc." This statement
would inolcate that one of the largest animal eXperlmantation
centere in the ﬁnite& ﬁtatee, the Jackson Eemoria Laboratories
at Bar Harbor, Maine, is operating an illegal busineee. The fact
ie, of couree, that no etate in the United States prohibits anieal
exoerlmente.

2) "Reeearch animals, treateo as well as or better than
householo pate, make major contributions in the battle against
dieeaee." That reeearon animals have made major contributione is
true. In nhgaro to their treatment as it compares with that of
noneenolo note, representatives of the Institute have observed
in major laboratories in Chicago, Benton, ano new York toga
whoee ownere, had these unfortunate animale been householo pets,
could and erooably woulﬁ have been nroeeouted unoer the general
antiwcnuelty lawe.

3} “They (scientists) know that you nee either humane or
animals, and teat - ae more than one doctor has oolnteﬁ out - the
only country that ever abolished animal experimentation to use
humans was Nazi earmany." Scientists; not to mention ordinary
newepaper readere,anow that humans as well ae animakaare serving
ae experimental eubjecte in prisons, hospitals and laboratories
in this country. In fact. the National Society for ﬂedical Research
eponeore a "human guinea pig club” itself. The oifference between
human exoerimentation in civilizeo countries and in Real Germany
1e teat in germany dangeroue ano gainful experiments often resulting
in deformity or death were carried out without the ooneent of the
euojecte. Renorte that the Nazis abolieneo animal exeerimentation
on paper have little to on with actual practice enter a regime
famous for the technique of The Big Lie. The trials of the Nazi
doctors brought to light Socumente each ae the firat letter from
a acientiat requeetlnﬁ biological material in the form of human
beings. Accorolng to Doctors of Infamy", it reads in part:

 




 




